AMERLI, Iraq — The children lined the unkempt boulevard in this northern Iraqi town on Tuesday to welcome some of the men who had saved them from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
伊拉克阿莫利——周二，在伊拉克北部的这座城镇，孩子们站在尘土飞扬的主干道旁，欢迎那些把自己从伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）手里拯救出来的人。
Convoy after convoy of armed men raced past, blaring victory music from loudspeakers and bristling with weaponry. They waved as the young residents clapped and chanted religious slogans, celebrating the men who had broken the militants’ chokehold on Amerli and allowed in the first shipments of food and water in nearly three months.
一队队作战人员乘坐汽车疾驰而过，车上的喇叭播放着胜利的旋律，车上载满了武器。车上的战士挥着手，与此同时，孩子们鼓掌并高呼宗教口号，庆祝他们在阿莫利(Amerli)打破了激进武装的围攻，让近三个月来的第一批食品和饮用水抵达这里。
It took an odd coalition of Iraqi and Iranian militias backed by American air support to drive off the ISIS fighters. But for long weeks before, the minority Shiite Turkmens who live here held the line, waging a desperate campaign for survival as they took up arms to protect the estimated 15,000 residents.
赶走了ISIS激进武装的是一个不同寻常的联盟：伊拉克和伊朗的武装组织，还有美国的空中支持。但在更早的几周时间里，居住在这里的少数族群什叶派土库曼人坚守阵地，为保护约1.5万居民而拿起武器，不顾一切地发起了抵抗运动。
Amid daily shelling and at least four major assaults by ISIS, the people subsisted on onion soup and dry bread. Children joined the front lines during the day because there were not enough men for two shifts. Without gas, families cooked on open fires fueled by sheep dung.
在ISIS每天发动炮击和至少四次大规模袭击的那段时间，这里的居民只能靠洋葱汤和干面包度日。因为日夜值守的人手不足，孩子们白天也会加入前线。没有燃料，居民们就在户外烧羊粪生火做饭。
The siege of Amerli is thought to be the first time a town has managed to keep the militants at bay since the group, which now calls itself the Islamic State, began its march through wide areas of Iraq. By Monday, aid from the United Nations had begun reaching the starving residents.
自从这个现在自称“伊斯兰国”的组织开始横扫伊拉克大片地区以来，阿莫利可能是第一个把包围自己的极端武装逼退的城镇。周一，联合国的援助已经开始送达饥民手中。
“The families in this village are so brave,” said Abu Abdullah, the commander of the Kataib Hezbollah militia that aided the residents. “There was no water, no electricity, no food and no milk for children, but they stood and fought ISIS.”
“这个村子的每家每户都特别勇敢，”为居民提供协助的真主旅(Kataib Hezbollah)指挥官阿布·阿卜杜拉(Abu Abdullah)说，“没有水、没有电、没有吃的，孩子们没有牛奶喝，但他们仍然挺身而出，与ISIS作战。”
On Tuesday, the colorful flags of at least four militias competed for prominence on the streets and buildings of Amerli. Along with the banner of Kataib Hezbollah, an Iraqi group unrelated to the better-known Lebanese Hezbollah, were those of the Badr Brigades, Saraya al-Salam and Asaib Ahl al-Haq.
周二，在阿莫利的街道和建筑物上，一些颜色鲜艳的旗帜竞相招展，它们至少来自四个民兵组织：真主旅、巴德尔旅(Badr Brigades)、萨拉亚·萨拉姆(Saraya al-Salam)和正义联盟(Asaib Ahl al-Haq)。真主旅是一个伊拉克组织，与更知名的黎巴嫩真主党没有关联。
The fact that American air power had helped was not as celebrated. Some of the militiamen had fought the Americans after the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Mr. Abdullah spoke for many when he said, “We do not like the Americans, and we didn’t need their airstrikes.”
虽然美国的空中打击提供了帮助，但这个事实并没有得到同样的认可。在这些作战人员中，有些人曾在2003年美国入侵伊拉克后与美军作战。阿卜杜拉说，“我们不喜欢美国人，我们也不需要他们的空袭。”他说出了许多人的心声。
In a video released Tuesday, the killer of Steven J. Sotloff, an American journalist, made an apparent reference to the United States’ strikes near Amerli.
在周二发布的一则视频中，杀害美国记者史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)的那个人，明显谈及了美国在阿莫利附近发动的空袭。
In Amerli, Mr. Abdullah said his men had arrived on Iraqi military helicopters about two weeks into the siege. They carried aid and weaponry, but also specialized skills. Among them were experts in communications, operations and explosives.
在阿莫利，阿卜杜拉说，他的部下大约两周前乘伊拉克军方的直升机，进入了被围困的地带。他们携带了援助物资和武器，但这些作战人员也带来了特殊技能，他们当中有通讯专家、作战人员和爆破专家。
Mr. Abdullah said his forces had joined those inside Amerli to help beat back the ISIS militants. He refused to say how many of his fighters had assisted, to offer operational details or to expound on why his men had come at all. He said only that his troops were willing to take on the mission.
阿卜杜拉说，他的士兵与阿莫利本地武装联手击退了ISIS的作战人员。他拒绝透露手下有多少士兵提供了协助，不愿意透露作战细节，也拒绝解释自己的士兵为什么要来。他只是说，他的队伍愿意承担这个任务。
“Everyone heard the calls for help, but not everyone answered,” he said. “We answered.”
“所有人都听到了求救的呼声，但并不是所有人都响应了，”他说。“我们响应了。”
By the time the militias began arriving, ISIS had surrounded the town entirely. To the west, they were two kilometers away; to the east, just 500 meters. Residents had dug giant trenches in the mud around Amerli. Some had planted improvised explosive devices in the earth surrounding the town, hoping to keep ISIS out.
民兵组织开始抵达时，ISIS已经完全包围了该城。他们距离阿莫利西缘约有两公里处，而距离东边只有500米。居民们在阿莫利周边的淤泥里挖了一些大壕沟。一些居民在城周围的土地里安置了简易爆炸装置，希望能阻止ISIS进入该城。
They had been planning for a long time. The day Mosul fell, tribal leaders in Amerli called a meeting in the town mosque to discuss their options, sure that the militants would eventually reach them, according to one of the leaders, Sheikh Shahab Ahmed Barash.
他们计划了很长时间。部落领袖谢赫·谢哈布·艾哈迈德·巴拉什(Sheikh Shahab Ahmed Barash)称，摩苏尔坝沦陷的那一天，阿莫利的部落首领们在该城的清真寺召开会议，讨论他们的选择，他们确信激进武装最终会到达这里。
The men swore an oath on the Quran to protect the town. They would not flee as others had. The leaders began to divide the town into areas, typically by landmarks. One leader had the cemetery. Another had the tower.
他们以《古兰经》发誓保护小城。他们不愿意像其他人一样逃走。领袖们开始将该城分为几个区域，主要根据地标来划分。一名领袖负责墓地，另一名负责高塔。
ISIS made four major assaults on the town, sometimes with more than 100 men at a time and the benefit of armored vehicles.
ISIS对小城发动了四次大规模攻击，有时一次会派100多人参与攻击，还出动了装甲车。
But the biggest fight the residents of Amerli faced was against hunger, as the militants’ cordon kept supplies from entering.
但饥饿是阿莫利居民面临的最严峻挑战，因为激进武装包围了该地区，物资无法进入。
During a series of interviews with commanders, several struggled to remember exact dates that major attacks had occurred. Ibrahim Hamid Ali, an elder in Amerli, believes the first assault began shortly after 6 p.m. on July 17, when the militants stormed the perimeter the residents had set up.
在接受一系列采访时，几名指挥官都很难回忆起大规模攻击发生的确切时间。阿莫利的老人易卜拉欣·哈米德·阿里(Ibrahim Hamid Ali)称，7月17日下午刚过6点的时候，激进武装第一次开展行动，攻击了居民们设立的防御带。
“We were told not to leave our positions,” said Mr. Barash, who controls an area in Amerli where about 200 families live. “If they broke through, then we would decide what to do.”
“大家叮嘱我们要坚守阵地，”巴拉什说。“如果他们突破防御，我们需要决定怎么做。”巴拉什控制的区域大约有200户居民。
Mr. Barash and others said the fight lasted until dawn, when the Iraqi Air Force began to hit the areas under the militants’ control. The ISIS fighters slowly retreated, having been unable to breach the town, despite trying from multiple fronts.
巴拉什及其他人表示，战斗持续到天亮，当时伊拉克空军(Iraqi Air Force)开始袭击由激进武装控制的区域。ISIS作战人员渐渐撤退，尽管他们从各个战线尝试，但最终还是没能进入该城。
For the next several weeks, Mr. Barash said, the militants studied the habits of the fighters for Amerli. They knew the town required boys to aid in the defense, but only during the day, when the youths could see the enemy.
巴拉什表示，在接下来的几周，激进武装研究了阿莫利作战人员的行动习惯。他们知道，该城要求十几岁的男孩们帮助防御，但只有在白天这些少年能看到敌人的时候。
On what residents believe was Aug. 5, the ISIS fighters struck at 4:30 a.m., just as Amerli’s defenders were switching to the day shift. The militants drove armored vehicles up to the mud berms, seizing a few houses on the edge of the city, according to Mr. Barash and Mr. Ali.
居民们回忆道，ISIS作战人员有一天在清晨4点30分，也就是阿莫利的防御人员换白班的时候，开始发动攻击，居民们记得这一天是8月5日。巴拉什和阿里称，激进武装将装甲车开到了淤泥护堤上，占据了城边的几处房屋。
The account was substantiated by video footage from ISIS fighters who later abandoned those homes, leaving a flash drive that the Amerli fighters recovered.
ISIS作战人员拍摄的录像证实了这种说法，他们后来遗弃了这些房屋，阿莫利作战人员发现了他们留下的闪存盘。