KABUL, Afghanistan — With one of the most important chapters of Afghanistan’s history open before him, President Hamid Karzai took time this month for a personal meeting with the longtime foreign minister of Iraq, Hoshyar Zebari.
阿富汗喀布尔——阿富汗历史的一个最重要章节正在等待着总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)书写。他本月抽出了一些时间，与担任伊拉克外交部长多年的霍希亚尔·兹巴里(Hoshyar Zebari)进行了私人会面。
It had been years since an Iraqi official had been to Afghanistan, and the trip was nominally meant to ease the passage of Afghan Shiites to holy shrines in Iraq. But it came right as Mr. Karzai had chosen to dig in and delay signing a security agreement with the United States, leaving long-term Western military support, and billions of dollars in aid, hanging in the balance.
伊拉克官员上一次到访阿富汗已经是许多年前的事了，兹巴里此行名义上是为了减少阿富汗什叶派前往伊拉克圣地朝拜的障碍。而兹巴里此行之际，卡尔扎伊已决定固执己见，推迟与美国签署安全协议，此举给阿富汗获得西方的长期军事支持和数十亿美元援助一事打上了问号。
In a moment of candor, Mr. Zebari offered a piece of advice to the president that would have been unthinkable from an Iraqi official just two years ago: Get over your differences with the Americans and sign the deal.
在双方坦诚交换意见之时，兹巴里给卡尔扎伊提了一个建议，若是两年前，你根本无法想象这样的建议会来自一位伊拉克官员：忘掉你与美国的分歧，签署协议。
“Don’t be under the illusion that no matter what you do the Americans are here to stay,” Mr. Zebari told Mr. Karzai. “People used to say that about the American presence in Iraq, too. But they were eager to leave, and they will be eager to leave your country as well.”
兹巴里告诉卡尔扎伊，“不要幻想无论你做了什么美国都会继续留在阿富汗。人们曾经也以为美国会留在伊拉克。但是美军当时迫切希望离开伊拉克，他们现在也会迫切希望离开你的国家。”
When the last American troops departed Iraq in 2011, after the collapse of a similar security agreement, many Iraqis reveled in a moment of national pride, expressing faith in the government’s ability to maintain security. Since then, the country has fallen back into hellish violence, with thousands killed in sectarian attacks this year.
2011年，当最后一支美军部队在类似的安全协议破裂后撤离伊拉克时，许多伊拉克人沉浸在了民族自豪感之中，相信政府有能力维护安全。但此后，这个国家就再度陷入了可怕的武装冲突，今年有数千人在教派冲突中丧生。
The Iraqi government could not even secure Baghdad anymore, despite billions of dollars in oil revenue and well-trained security forces, Mr. Zebari told the Afghan president, according to Iraqi and Afghan officials at the meeting. So how could the Afghan government, which can barely fund 20 percent of what it spends each year, hope to control the country without American help?
与会的伊拉克官员和阿富汗官员说，兹巴里告诉卡尔扎伊，尽管拥有数十亿美元的石油收入和训练有素的安全部队，伊拉克政府甚至连巴格达的安全都无法保障。因此，每年负担自己20%支出都已经很困难的阿富汗政府，又怎么能指望在没有美国帮助的情况下掌控国家呢？
The conversation was a resonant moment between two leaders at different points in their respective journeys — one pondering his country’s post-American future, the other contending with it. 
这次对话发生时，两位领袖在各自的旅程中正处在截然不同的阶段——一位正在思考其国家在后美国时代的未来，另一位已经在后美国时代中挣扎。
But Mr. Karzai had heard it all before.
其实，卡尔扎伊早就听到过这种说法。
American officials, in fact, have long used the Iraq withdrawal as a cautionary example when talking with reporters and Afghan officials about the struggle to reach an Afghan security deal. And in the days after Mr. Karzai said he would put off signing the agreement, several senior American officials warned him that they would be forced to begin considering the “zero option” — a total and final troop withdrawal in 2014 — if he did not reverse course.
事实上，在与记者和阿富汗官员谈论与阿富汗达成安全协议的难度时，美国官员长期以来一直用伊拉克撤军的例子来发出警告。在卡尔扎伊表示他将会推迟签署协议之后的几天里，美国的几名高级官员警告他，他们将不得不开始考虑“零方案”——2014年全部撤军——如果他不改弦易辙的话。
And that was the way Mr. Karzai appeared to take Mr. Zebari’s words, to the chagrin of Afghan officials who had hoped their president might take heed of Iraq’s troubles.
卡尔扎伊似乎也是这么理解兹巴里的话的，这让那些希望总统注意到伊拉克目前困境的阿富汗官员感到苦恼。
“You see?” he told the small group of Afghan officials after the meeting ended. “The Americans want this deal so badly they are even getting the Iraqis to pressure me.”
见面结束后，他告诉这一小批阿富汗官员，“看到了吧？美国太想签署这个协议了，甚至让伊拉克人向我施压。”
In a telephone interview, Mr. Zebari insisted his advice had merely been an expression of good will, not water-carrying for the Americans.
在一次电话采访中，兹巴里坚持说，他的建议只不过是为了表达善意，不是为了帮美国说话。
“Two years after the troop withdrawal, because of the rise of violence, we went back to Washington and asked them for continued support and military help,” he said, referring to a Nov. 1 trip by the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, after a huge surge in attacks by Al Qaeda in Iraq and other Sunni militants. “One should really draw from that conclusion.”
兹巴里说，“在美国从伊拉克撤军的两年后，因为暴力活动的激增，我们回到华盛顿，要求他们继续提供支持和军事援助，”他指的是，在伊拉克的基地组织以及其他逊尼派武装分子发动的袭击大幅增加之后，伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)11月1日对美国的访问。“真的不应该得出这样的结论。”
In 2011, the deal effectively broke down over Iraqi domestic politics. But within Mr. Karzai’s response to Mr. Zebari’s plea lies one of the core reasons it might yet happen that the United States leaves Afghanistan outright, too, despite urgency within parts of the Obama administration not to see a decade of lost lives and treasure blown away.
2011年，伊拉克与美国的协议因为伊拉克的国内政局而破裂。但是，虽然奥巴马政府的一些人不想看到10年来付出的生命和财力代价付诸东流，美国还是有可能彻底从阿富汗撤军，其关键理由就在于卡尔扎伊对兹巴里的建议的反应。
Facing a world of potential consequences, Mr. Karzai again seemingly reduced the moment to himself. And whether out of paranoia or justifiable suspicion, his reaction has increasingly been to express profound distrust for his American allies.
面对着无数可能的后果，卡尔扎伊似乎又打算独断专行了。无论是他想得太多，还是他的怀疑有情可原，他的反应在越来越强烈地表达对美国盟友的极度不信任。
“Even if they are not bluffing, we will not give in to the pressure to sign if our requirements are not fulfilled,” he told the French newspaper, Le Monde last week. “What I am hearing these days, and what I have already heard, is typical of colonial exploitation.”
他上周告诉法国的《世界报》(Le Monde)，“即使他们没有在吓唬我们，我们也不会屈从于压力并签署协议，除非我们的要求得到满足。我这些天听到的，以及我以前所听到的要求，都是典型的殖民剥削。”
In any case, the specter of Iraq has not just been used as a threat. It has loomed over every step of the debate on a long-term troop presence, both inside the White House and the Afghan presidential palace.
无论怎样，伊拉克的例子并非只是现在才被用来当做威胁。在有关长期驻军的谈判的每一步，伊拉克这个幽灵都阴魂不散，白宫和阿富汗总统府都是如此。
For the Americans who want to see troops stay on, the Iraqi example has served as a fallback position. “You can point to what’s been happening in Iraq, and you can say, ‘We can’t allow that to happen in Afghanistan,’ ” one senior administration official said.
对于想要保留在阿富汗驻军的美国人来说，伊拉克的例子是一个可以倚仗的理由。美国的一名高级政府官员说，你可以举出伊拉克的例子，然后说，‘我们不能允许这样的事在阿富汗发生。’”
Those in favor of a total withdrawal have a sense of having avoided a debacle in Iraq — that leaving incurred almost no political cost at home and most likely saved American lives. The same would be true in Afghanistan, another American official said.
那些支持全面撤军的人们认为，美国在伊拉克已经避免了一场灾难——撤军在美国国内几乎没有付出什么政治代价，而且极有可能挽救了许多美国人的性命。另一名美国官员说，对阿富汗来说也是这样。
Still, even those relieved at having avoided catastrophe in Iraq are reluctant to see Afghanistan descend into bloodshed.
尽管如此，即使是那些因为美国摆脱了在伊拉克的厄运而松了一口气的人们，也不愿意看到阿富汗陷入流血冲突。
The outcome of a grand assembly of Afghan leaders last month, the loya jirga, was an expression of urgency to seal a security deal, just one indicator that at least some of the Afghan public wants continuing American support. And American officials do not want to “punish the Afghan people” because of Mr. Karzai’s intransigence, the senior administration official said.
上个月阿富汗领导人的一次盛大集会——支尔格大会(loya jirga)上，人们表达了签署安全协议的迫切心情，再次证明至少有一些阿富汗民众想要继续获得美国的支持。这名高级官员说，美国官方不想因为卡尔扎伊的不妥协而“惩罚阿富汗人”。
The officials asked not to be identified because they were describing internal discussions and delicate negotiations.
由于谈话涉及内部讨论和敏感的谈判内容，上述官员都要求匿名。