WASHINGTON — For President Obama, whose popularity and second-term agenda have been ravaged by the chaotic rollout of the health care law, the preliminary nuclear deal reached with Iran on Sunday is more than a welcome change of subject.
华盛顿——医改法案实施过程中的混乱已经影响了奥巴马的民望和第二任期的议程。对他而言，周日同伊朗达成的初步核协议不仅仅是一个广受欢迎的话题转移。
It is also a seminal moment — one that thrusts foreign policy to the forefront in a White House preoccupied by domestic woes, and one that presents Mr. Obama with the chance to chart a new American course in the Middle East for the first time in more than three decades.
它还是一个开创性的时刻。这一时刻会推动埋首国内问题的白宫把外交政策挪到前台，同时也让奥巴马得到了三十多年来的第一个机会，可以在中东开辟一条新的美国路线。
Much will depend, of course, on whether the United States and the other major powers ever reach a final agreement with Iran to curb its nuclear ambitions. Mr. Obama himself said Saturday night that it “won’t be easy, and huge challenges remain ahead.”
当然，很多事情都要看美国和其他大国能否同伊朗达成最终协议，遏制其核野心。奥巴马自己于周六晚上表示，这件事“不容易，前面还有巨大的挑战”。
But the mere fact that after 34 years of estrangement, the United States and Iran have signed a diplomatic accord — even if it is a tactical, transitory one — opens the door to a range of geopolitical possibilities available to no American leader since Jimmy Carter.
但是，34年的疏远隔阂之后，美国终于和伊朗达成了一项外交协议，哪怕只是一份战术性的临时协议，这一事实本身就开启了通向一系列地缘政治可能性的大门。从吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)开始，没有哪位美国领导人曾拥有这些可能性。
“No matter what you think of it, this is a historic deal,” said Vali R. Nasr, the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. “It is a major seismic shift in the region. It rearranges the entire chess board.”
“不管你怎么看，这都是一份具有历史意义的协议，”约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)院长瓦利·R·纳斯尔(Vali R. Nasr)说，“这是该地区的一个重大变化，会改变整个格局。”
Mr. Obama has wanted to bring in Iran from the cold since he was a presidential candidate, declaring in 2007 that he would pursue “aggressive personal diplomacy” with Iranian leaders, and ruling out the concept of leadership change, which was popular at the time.
从还是总统候选人的时候开始，奥巴马便一直希望推动伊朗走出被隔绝的状态。2007年，他曾表示将寻求同伊朗领导人展开“敢做敢为的个人外交”，并排除了当时盛行的更替伊朗政权这个观念。
But the president has sought to avoid being consumed by the Middle East, in part so he could shift America’s gaze to Asia. He has tended to view Iran through two narrower prisms: his goal of curbing the spread of nuclear weapons and his desire to avoid entangling the United States in another war in the region.
但他一直试图避免中东问题的纠缠，部分是为了把美国的注意力转到亚洲。他倾向于通过两个更窄的视角来看待伊朗：限制核武器扩散的目标，以及避免让美国卷入该地区又一场战争的愿望。
On Friday, Mr. Obama huddled in the Oval Office with Secretary of State John Kerry over the fine points of a proposal to the Iranians. He was intent on making sure that Iran halted all testing at a heavy-water reactor, a senior administration official said, and in tying any reference to Iran’s enrichment of uranium only to a final agreement.
周五，奥巴马在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)和国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)一起商讨给伊朗的提议要点。奥巴马政府的一名高官说，奥巴马希望确定伊朗停止了一处重水反应堆的所有测试活动，还希望关于伊朗铀浓缩的所有条款只和最终协议绑在一起。
Still, pursuing a broader diplomatic opening, Mr. Nasr said, could alter other American calculations in the region — from Syria, where the Iranian-backed group Hezbollah is fighting alongside President Bashar al-Assad’s government, to Afghanistan, where the Iranians could be helpful in brokering a postwar settlement with the Taliban.
但纳斯尔表示，寻求更广泛的外交开放可能会影响美国在该地区的其他计划，波及范围从叙利亚直到阿富汗。伊朗支持的组织真主党(Hezbollah)正在叙利亚同巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统领导的政府并肩战斗，伊朗还可能居间斡旋，帮助阿富汗政府同塔利班达成一项战后协议。
The prospect of such a long-term strategic realignment is precisely what has so alarmed American allies like Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf emirates and Israel, whose leader, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on Sunday condemned the deal as a “historic mistake.”
正是这种长期战略调整的可能性让包括沙特阿拉伯、波斯湾地区酋长国和以色列在内的美国盟友感到惊恐。周日，以色列领导人本雅明·内塔尼亚胡总理(Benjamin Netanyahu)谴责该协议是一个“历史性的错误”。
It is also what has stirred opposition from lawmakers, including those of Mr. Obama’s party, who complain that the deal eases pressure on Iran without extracting enough concessions.
这种可能性还引起了美国议员的反对，其中包括奥巴马所在政党的成员，他们抱怨称，该协议减轻了伊朗的压力，但却没能迫使伊朗做出足够多的让步。
“It was strong sanctions, not the goodness of the hearts of the Iranian leaders, that brought Iran to the table,” Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Sunday.
纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)周日表示，“让伊朗走上谈判桌的是强力的制裁措施，而不是伊朗领导人内心的善意。”
Mr. Schumer said he would support a push in the Senate to pass additional sanctions against Iran after Congress returns from the Thanksgiving break. A day earlier, Mr. Obama had warned that new sanctions would “derail this promising first step, alienate us from our allies and risk unraveling the coalition that enabled our sanctions to be enforced in the first place.”
舒默说，感恩节假期过后国会重开之时，他会在参议院支持推进另一些针对伊朗的制裁措施。一天前，奥巴马已经警告称，新制裁会“打乱前景光明的第一步行动，疏远我们的盟友，还可能导致当初使制裁得以实施的己方联盟出现分化。”
On Sunday, administration officials called lawmakers to defend the deal and head off the legislation, while Mr. Obama called Mr. Netanyahu to hear his concerns before the next round of talks.
周日，奥巴马政府官员呼吁议员们支持协议，阻止制裁伊朗的立法提案，与此同时，奥巴马呼吁内塔尼亚胡在下轮谈判展开前倾听自己的关切。
To some extent, Mr. Obama finds himself in a predicament similar to that of his policy toward Syria, where allies like Saudi Arabia favor more robust support of the rebels fighting Mr. Assad. Some experts predicted that the tensions over Iran would only deepen because the administration would be determined to prevent the deal from unraveling.
奥巴马发现，从一定程度上说，自己面临着和推出叙利亚政策之时相类似的困境，在叙利亚问题上，诸如沙特阿拉伯之类的盟友倾向于更强力地支持反对派和阿萨德作战。一些专家预测，美国政府会以坚定的态度防止协议破裂，如此一来，围绕伊朗问题的紧张局势只会加剧。
“The administration is now a little bit hostage to Iran’s behavior going forward,” said Elliott Abrams, a foreign policy official in the Reagan and George W. Bush administrations. “Iran’s bad behavior — whether it’s the Revolutionary Guard in Syria or the ayatollah’s vicious speeches about Israel — it’s going to be linked to the deal.”
里根(Reagan)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)时期的外交政策官员埃利奥特·艾布拉姆斯(Elliott Abrams)说，“从现在起，奥巴马政府会有一点被伊朗的举动挟持的感觉。伊朗的恶劣举动，不管是在叙利亚活动的革命卫队(Revolutionary Guard)，还是阿亚图拉对以色列的恶意言论，都会被人跟这项协议扯到一起。”
Over the course of the negotiations, aides say, Mr. Obama became well-versed in the minutiae of Iran’s nuclear program. At a presentation last week with lawmakers, he ticked off the elements of sanctions relief that the West was prepared to offer Iran.
助手们说，在谈判过程中，奥巴马熟知了伊朗核计划的细节。在上周对议员的一次演示中，他逐点列出了西方准备放松对伊制裁的具体内容。
In a phone call Saturday afternoon with Mr. Kerry, who was then in Geneva, Mr. Obama went over the final wording, focusing on the preamble, which refers to a “mutually defined enrichment program” with Iran — essentially the provision that will allow Iran to enrich uranium, a privilege it does not currently have from the United Nations.
周六下午，和当时在日内瓦的克里通话时，奥巴马审核了最终措辞，把重点放在了前言上，前言提到了与伊朗“共同定义的一项铀浓缩计划”，该措辞大致相当于允许伊朗实施铀浓缩的条款，而伊朗目前并没有从联合国(United Nations)获得此项特权。
As Mr. Obama looks ahead, however, it is not the fine details but the big picture that is likely to dominate his attention. Among the decisions he faces is whether to treat Iran’s nuclear program as a discrete problem to be solved, freeing him up to focus more on Asia, or as the opening act in a more ambitious engagement with Iran that might give it a role in Syria, Afghanistan and other trouble spots.
然而，放眼未来的时候，奥巴马的主要关注很可能不是细枝末节，而是大背景。他需要做出的决定之一是，是把伊朗核计划视为一个孤立的问题，解决它只是为了腾出更多精力处理亚洲问题，还是把它视为更具野心的对伊行动的开端，最终可能让伊朗在叙利亚、阿富汗和其他动荡区域的事务当中发挥作用。
Aides say that he is open to that, but that it will depend on factors that are out of America’s control, like moderates’ gaining ground in Iran. And given the extreme sensitivities the interim deal has aroused in the Middle East and on Capitol Hill, the White House is being careful to cast the coming negotiations narrowly.
助手们说，奥巴马在这个问题上的心态是开放的，但这个问题取决于美国控制之外的因素，比如温和派在伊朗的扩张。考虑到临时协议已在中东和国会山(Capitol Hill)引发了极端敏感的情绪，白宫正在谨慎地考量缩小即将到来的谈判范围。
“First and foremost, this has been a multifaceted, multiyear process to address a serious security concern,” said Tom Donilon, the former national security adviser to Mr. Obama, who coordinated Iran policy before leaving the White House in July.
曾担任奥巴马国家安全顾问的汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)说，“首先，这是一个历时多年的多方面进程，应对的是一个严重的安全关切。”在今年7月离开白宫以前，多尼隆负责协调对伊政策。