President-elect Hassan Rowhani of Iran, speaking Monday for the first time since his election victory, said he wanted to reduce tensions with the United States but ruled out direct talks between the two estranged nations.
周一，伊朗候任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rowhani)发表了他成功获选以来的第一次讲话，表示希望缓解跟美国之间的紧张关系，但是排除了在这两个存在严重隔阂的国家之间进行直接对话的可能。
In his first news conference after winning Friday’s presidential election promising more freedoms and better relations with the outside world, Mr. Rowhani called the issue of nonexistent relations between Iran and the United States “an old wound, which must be healed.”
在上周五赢得总统大选后的首次新闻发布会上，鲁哈尼承诺将赋予人们更多的自由，并改善与外界的关系，他说伊朗和美国之间的外交关系缺失问题是“一个必须治愈的旧伤口。”
Iran, he said, wants to reduce tensions between the two countries, which have no diplomatic relations and are at odds over the nature of Iran’s nuclear enrichment program.
鲁哈尼说，伊朗希望缓解美伊之间的紧张关系。目前两国没有外交关系，而且在伊朗核浓缩计划的性质上存在巨大分歧。
Echoing similar statements from the departing administration of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mr. Rowhani said there would be no direct talks until the United States stopped “interfering in Iran’s domestic politics,” respected what he called Iran’s nuclear rights and lifted economic sanctions.
跟即将离任的伊朗总统马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)发表过的类似声明一样，鲁哈尼也表示，美伊之间不会进行直接对话，除非美国停止干涉伊朗内政，尊重他所说的“伊朗的核权利”，并解除相关经济制裁。
“All should know that the next government will not budge from defending our inalienable rights,” Mr. Rowhani told reporters. He emphasized that, like those of his predecessors, his government would not be prepared to suspend uranium enrichment, something he had done as a nuclear negotiator in 2004 as a trust-building measure in discussions with European countries.
“所有人都应该知道，在捍卫我们不可剥夺的权利时，我这届政府不会做出让步。”鲁哈尼告诉记者。他强调说，跟历届政府一样，他这届政府也不会暂停铀浓缩活动。但在2004年，鲁哈尼担任核谈判代表与欧洲国家谈判时，作为建立信任的一个举措，曾暂停了伊朗的铀浓缩活动。
“We have passed that period,” he said of that time. “We are now in a different situation.”
提到那时，他说：“那个阶段已经过去，我们现在的情况不同了。”
Instead, Mr. Rowhani, who will take office on Aug. 3, offered more openness concerning Iran’s nuclear program, saying that was his way of working to end the sanctions that have severely damaged the Iranian economy.
不过，在8月3日上任之后，鲁哈尼提出，会增加伊朗核计划的透明度。他说，将以此终止“已对伊朗经济造成严重损害的制裁”。
Mr. Rowhani’s victory has been received with cautious optimism at the White House, which issued a statement on Saturday congratulating Iranians on “making their voices heard” and reaffirming an American willingness to “engage the Iranian government directly” to resolve the nuclear dispute.
白宫对鲁哈尼的当选表示了审慎乐观，上周六，白宫发表声明，祝贺伊朗人民“发出自己的声音”，并重申美国愿意“跟伊朗政府直接接触”，以解决核争端。
President Obama appeared to go further in an interview with Charlie Rose on Sunday before the president left for a summit meeting in Northern Ireland.
奥巴马总统在飞往北爱尔兰参加一个峰会之前，于周日接受了查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)的采访，当时他谈得更多一些。
“Clearly you have a hunger within Iran to engage with the international community in a more positive way,” Mr. Obama said in the interview, broadcast Monday night on PBS. “I do think that there’s a possibility that they decide, the Iranians decide to take us up on our offer to engage in a more serious, substantive way.”
“显然，伊朗内部有一种渴望，想以更加积极的方式与国际社会交往，”奥巴马在采访中表示；PBS电视台周一晚间播出了这个采访。“我认为，伊朗可能会决定接受我们的提议，以一种更加认真，更加重视实质的方式来进行接触。”
Iran has always contended that its uranium enrichment is for peaceful purposes, rejecting Western suspicions that the country is seeking the ability to build weapons.
伊朗一直坚称，其铀浓缩项目是用于和平目的，并非西方怀疑的武器研发目的。
Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency have repeatedly sought access to the military site of Parchin, near Tehran. But Iran has denied such a visit by saying that military sites are not part of its obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which Iranian diplomats often refer to as the “international framework.”
国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)的调查员多次要求进入德黑兰附近的帕尔钦军事基地。但伊朗一直拒绝，称该军事基地不属于《不扩散核武器条约》涉及的范围。伊朗外交官通常把该条约称为“国际框架”。
Indirectly underlining the effects of the sanctions, Mr. Rowhani said he was already working with the departing government to prevent food shortages. “People are in instant need of basic staples,” he said.
鲁哈尼间接强调了经济制裁对伊朗的影响，他说他已经在跟即将离任的本届政府合作，防止出现粮食短缺的状况。“人们急需基本主食。”他说。
Mr. Rowhani, who is nicknamed the “diplomat sheik” in Iran for his white turban and pragmatic streak, said his victory and the high turnout in Friday’s election had altered the view that other countries had of Iran.
鲁哈尼在伊朗有“外交官酋长”(diplomat sheik)的称号，因为他戴白色头巾，作风务实。他说，他的当选，以及周五选举的高投票率，已经改变了其他国家对伊朗的看法。
“On a global level, our image has changed,” he said. “The atmosphere in the global opinion has changed, and this provides new opportunities for us.” Interaction with the rest of the world — except for Israel, which Iran does not recognize — is important, he emphasized.
“从全球层面来说，我们的形象已经发生了变化，”他说。“在世界对伊朗的看法上，气氛已经有所转变，这为我们提供了新的机遇。”他强调说，与世界其他地方——除了以色列，该国并不承认以色列——开展互动很重要。
He paid special attention to neighboring countries, especially the Persian Gulf kingdoms that reduced relations with Iran under Mr. Ahmadinejad’s presidency. “The priority of my government’s foreign policy will be to have excellent relations with all neighboring countries,” he said. He singled out Iran’s biggest regional rival, the Sunni kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which supports rebels in Syria while Iran supports the government of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad.
他对周边国家给予了特别重视，尤其是在艾哈迈迪内贾德任期内跟伊朗关系变得疏远的波斯湾国家。“我这界政府外交政策的优先事项是与所有邻国保持良好关系。”鲁哈尼说。他特别提到了伊朗最大的区域性对手沙特阿拉伯。逊尼派掌权的沙特阿拉伯王国支持叙利亚叛军，而伊朗支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府。
“We are not only neighbors but also brothers,” he said. “Every year hundreds of thousands of Iranian pilgrims visit Mecca. We have many common points with Saudi Arabia.”
“我们不仅是邻居，而且是兄弟。”他说：“每年都有数十万伊朗人到麦加朝圣。我们跟沙特阿拉伯之间有很多共同点。”
He noted the street parties that erupted Saturday after his official victory, saying the “time of sadness for Iranians” was finished. But he did not offer any clear examples of the measures he would take to lift the security atmosphere that has pervaded the country during Mr. Ahmadinejad’s presidency.
鲁哈尼还提到，在他的正式当选之后，周六出现了街头派对，他说“伊朗人的悲伤期”结束了，但是，对于他会采取何种措施，来消除艾哈迈迪内贾德担任总统期间弥漫在伊朗的戒备气氛，他并没有举出任何明确的例子。
Toward the end of the news conference, a spectator yelled for the release of Mir Hussein Moussavi, the opposition leader who is under house arrest. Mr. Rowhani made no comment.
新闻发布会接近尾声时，一名观众大声叫嚷，要求释放被软禁在家的反对派领导人米尔·侯赛因·穆萨维(Mir Hussein Moussavi)。鲁哈尼未予置评。