BEIRUT, Lebanon — Militants from the Islamic State extremist group have captured a Jordanian fighter pilot, Jordan’s state news service reported on Wednesday after reports that the pilot’s plane was shot down over northern Syria.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——约旦国家新闻机构周三报道，激进组织伊斯兰国的武装分子俘虏了一名约旦飞行员。此前已有报道称这名飞行员的飞机在叙利亚北部被击落。
Shooting down a fighter jet from the United States-led coalition against the Islamic State would be a first for the group. The pilot’s capture is also a coup that could shake the resolve of the Arab countries in the coalition, which began bombing Islamic State sites in Iraq and Syria this year.
这将是美国主导的反伊斯兰国联盟的战机第一次被击落。飞行员被俘也可能动摇阿拉伯国家参战的决心。这个联盟今年开始轰炸伊拉克和叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国目标。
The Jordanian military said in a statement reported by Petra, the country’s state-run news service, that one of its pilots had been taken hostage and that the Jordanian government held the group and its supporters responsible for his safety.
约旦军方在一则声明中说他们的一名飞行员已被劫为人质，并说约旦政府要求伊斯兰国及其支持者对他的安全负责。
It said that his plane “went down” while Jordanian jets were carrying out a mission aimed at Islamic State sites near Raqqa, in northern Syria.
军方声明说，多架约旦飞机在叙利亚北部拉卡执行针对伊斯兰国的任务，其中一架飞机“坠落”。
The coalition was formed this year and includes Bahrain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
打击伊斯兰国的联盟于今年建立，包括巴林、约旦、卡塔尔、沙特和阿联酋。
While American officials have lauded the contributions of their Arab partners, they also acknowledge that the majority of the strikes have been carried out by the United States, with its partners often playing a supporting role.
美国官员赞扬了阿拉伯盟友做出的贡献，但他们也承认，多数空袭是美国实施的，其盟友往往扮演辅助的角色。
The United States’ Arab allies have avoided giving much detail about their role in the campaign, mostly over fears of retribution by the Islamic State or to avoid domestic blowback from citizens who support the extremists.
美国的阿拉伯盟友一直避免透露他们所发挥作用的细节，主要是担心遭到伊斯兰国报复，或是激起国内支持激进主义者的人反对。
It remained unclear whether the capture would affect the participation of Jordan and other Arab countries in the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, but the group will most likely use it to its advantage. The group has used hostages to negotiate prisoner swaps and to demand ransoms, and it has distributed grim videos of its fighters beheading Americans and Britons in what it has called revenge for those countries’ actions against it.
目前尚不清楚飞行员被俘是否会影响约旦及其他阿拉伯国家参与对伊斯兰国的战斗，但伊斯兰国料将利用这名人质从中获益。该组织曾劫持人质要求交换俘虏或索要赎金。他们也曾传播血腥录像，展示美国人和英国人被斩首的场面，称这是对英美国家的报复。