TEHRAN, Iran — On a recent Friday afternoon, in the upscale Shahrak-e Gharb neighborhood in West Tehran, Porsches, Toyota Land Cruisers and Mercedes-Benz two-seaters drove up and down the street, music blaring from high-powered speakers that were quickly turned down for passing police cars.
伊朗德黑兰——最近一个周五的下午，在西德黑兰沙赫拉克加尔卜的高档街区，保时捷(Porsches)、丰田陆地巡洋舰(Toyota Land Cruisers)和两座的梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)跑车在街道上往复穿梭，大功率的音响里传来震耳的音乐，只是在看到边上有警车时才迅速调低音量。
Iran, where gas is still only about 50 cents a gallon, has a thriving car culture, reminiscent of Southern California in the 1960s, with young people cruising around, showing off their wheels. The flashier the car, the more looks and flirts its driver gets here, and last Friday it was Saeed Mohammadi’s shiny 1972 eggplant purple Paykan that got all the action.
每加仑汽油依然仅售50美分（约合3元人民币）的伊朗，有着欣欣向荣的汽车文化，它让人想起上世纪60年代的南加州，年轻人驾着车四处游荡，炫耀他们的靓车。在这里，车子越耀目，司机得到的注视和搭讪就越多。上周五，博得所有这一切的，是赛义德·穆罕默迪(Mohammadi)闪闪发亮的1972年款茄紫色培康(Paykan)车。
Wearing Ray Ban Aviator glasses and a black hat typical of Iranian street thugs from the 1970s, Mr. Mohammadi, 21, beamed self-consciously, taking in all the glances and smiles from female drivers and cheers from the guys. His ride? The dorkiest car on the street.
21岁的穆罕默迪戴着雷朋(Ray Ban)飞行员(Aviator)系列墨镜、头顶上世纪70年代伊朗街头混混所戴的典型黑帽，笑得颇为不自然，他得到了所有女司机的目光和微笑、以及男同胞们的喝彩。他的座驾？那是街上最过时的车。
“Look at the Paykan,” one young woman said from a car window. “I used to be driven to elementary school in one.”
一名年轻女子从车窗后说，“看那辆培康，我曾经坐过这样的车上小学。”
Eight years after they went out of production and were thrown into history’s dustbin, Iran’s onetime national car, the Paykan, is making a comeback. Not that many people are especially interested in driving it again, with its manual steering and gearshift, rough ride and omnipresent gasoline vapors. But its surge in popularity — it is the subject of a documentary and two art exhibitions — seems to represent a longing for a simpler past.
在停产8年，被扔进历史的垃圾桶之后，曾经在伊朗风靡一时的培康正在卷土重来。特别有兴趣驾驶培康车的人并不多，它的转向和变速系统是机械式的，行驶体验相当粗糙，还有扑鼻的汽油味。但是，它的人气飙升——有一部纪录片和两个艺术展览拿它当主题——似乎代表了人们对更简单的往昔时光的向往。
“Every Iranian has memories of this car,” said Shahin Armin, 37, an Iranian-American design engineer who used to work for Chrysler and Honda in Detroit. “Maybe not always good ones, but we are romantic people. When people see a Paykan nowadays, they are reminded of a time when we had fewer choices and simpler lives.”
37岁的沙欣·阿明(Shahin Armin)说，“每个伊朗人都有一段关于培康的记忆。”他是一名美籍伊裔的设计工程师，曾在底特律为克莱斯勒(Chrysler)和本田(Honda)工作。“也许这种记忆不总是好的，但我们是一个浪漫的民族。如今人们看到一辆培康时，他们会想起选择更少、生活更简单的岁月。”
Mr. Armin, who moderates a Web site dedicated to the car, Paykanhunter.com, returned to his native Iran last year and quickly found himself caught up in what he calls the “Paykan revival.”
阿明在去年回到伊朗老家，他很快发现自己卷入了他所称的“培康的复兴”热潮。现在他主持着一个以培康车为主题的网站Paykanhunter.com。
“I guess now that times are difficult again, the car reminds us of our own survival as a people.”
“我猜，由于形势又变得艰难起来，培康车让我们想起我们作为一个民族的生存。”
He stood in the Dastan Gallery in North Tehran where Iranian expatriates visiting from the United States and Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, had gathered around a burned-out Paykan on display in the middle of the sleek gallery. Sipping espressos, they peeked through the opened-up keyhole of its back trunk, which showed a childhood picture of a boy sitting in the open trunk of a Paykan.
他站在北德黑兰的达斯坦画廊(Dastan Gallery)里，来自美国和阿拉伯联合酋长国的迪拜的伊朗侨民，聚集在光洁的展厅中央那辆被烧坏的培康车周围。他们嘬着浓咖啡，透过后备箱上打开的锁孔往里窥视，里面显示了一个男孩坐在培康车打开的后备箱里的儿时照片。
“This is amazing,” one of the visitors said of the car. “It doesn’t get more Iranian than this. This is history on wheels.”
一名参观者在提到培康时说，“这让人惊叹。没有什么比这更能展示伊朗风情了。这是车轮上的历史。”
Hanging out of a back door, suspended on nylon wires, were several loaves of noon-e sangak, a traditional Iranian bread baked on pebbles. One of the headlights showed an eye reflecting video of a car being driven through the streets.
几条桑嘎克(noon-e sangak)面包被悬挂在尼龙丝上，探出车后门之外，桑嘎克是一种传统的伊朗面包，在鹅卵石上烘焙而成。其中一个前车灯被换成了屏幕，播放着一辆车在街上驶过的视频。
“The bread symbolizes making money,” said Mr. Armin, explaining that the Paykan was a workhorse than enabled many lower-middle-class people to earn extra income as freelance taxi drivers.
“面包象征着挣钱，”阿明说，他解释说，培康被当作一种生产工具，让许多中低阶层的人当上自由职业出租车司机，赚取额外的收入。
For many Iranians, the Paykan was the first step up in life, as oil money started trickling down to the people during the rule of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. Introduced in 1967 and based on the British-built Hillman Hunter — itself a forgettable car from Britain’s struggling postwar auto industry — it had extra strong bumpers to withstand Iran’s chaotic traffic.
在国王穆罕默德·礼萨·巴列维(Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi)统治时期，在石油收入开始慢慢流向普通民众之际，对很多伊朗人来说，培康是他们在人生中向上攀登的第一级。培康基于英国制造的Hillman Hunter车型改造而来，在1967年被推向市场——Hillman Hunter本身源自战后英国挣扎中的汽车业，没什么特点——培康的保险杠比一般车结实，以承受伊朗的混乱交通。
The shah, a Westernizer who tried to modernize his country at a rapid pace, endorsed the car, calling it a source of national pride. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution, the Paykan, like Iranian society, underwent intense, if cosmetic, changes. Already basic, it was stripped of anything remotely fancy, like chrome and a radio, and mass-produced only in white.
当时，西化的巴列维国王试图快速实现伊朗现代化，他赞赏培康车，称其为国家骄傲。1979年伊斯兰革命(Islamic Revolution)后，培康也和伊朗社会一样经历了激烈的变化，尽管这些变化都是表面的。配置本已基本的培康车，还是被去掉了任何有点花哨的东西，比如镀铬内饰和收音机，而且只量产白色车型。
“What I remember as a kid is feeling so anonymous in this sea of white Paykans, sitting in the back seat of one myself and seeing other completely similar cars and families drive by,” said Mr. Armin, who is making the documentary on the Paykan.
“我就记得小时候，在一片白色培康车的海洋里，感到特别不起眼，看到自己坐在一辆白色培康车后座上，而别的家庭开着非常相似的车经过，”阿明说。他在制作一部关于培康车的纪录片。
For Iran’s leaders, the car was a political statement, first as evidence that the country was moving upward in the world, and later as a revolutionary symbol of resistance to outside pressures.
对于伊朗领导人来说，培康车是种政治声明，起初它象征着伊朗的世界地位不断上升，后来又成了抵制外来压力的革命符号。
Average Iranians have a different view of the car. “We see in it our own adaptability and flexibility toward different times and ideologies,” Mr. Armin said. “Whatever happened in those days, the car was around and continues to be seen on the streets, just as whatever happens, people will be around. In a twisted way, the Paykan is a source of inspiration.”
普通伊朗人对这款车有不同看法。“我们从这款车看到我们自己面对不同时代和意识形态的适应性和灵活性，”阿明说。“不论那时发生了什么，这辆车一直都在，而且现在在街上还能看到它，就像不论发生什么，人们一直都会在。从某种奇怪的角度而言，培康成了给人精神鼓舞的源泉。”