TEHRAN — The day after a deadline for concluding a nuclear agreement was extended for seven months, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, delivered his first remarks on the negotiations, saying that the West had failed to bring Iran “to its knees.”
德黑兰——达成核协议的最后期限被延长七个月后的第二天，伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)首次就谈判发言，称西方未能让伊朗“屈服”。
Meeting on Tuesday with Muslim clerics in Tehran, the Iranian capital, Ayatollah Khamenei dismissed the diplomatic and economic pressure that world powers had brought to bear on his country over its nuclear ambitions.
周二在伊朗首都德黑兰会见穆斯林神职人员时，阿亚图拉哈梅内伊对世界大国因为伊朗的核野心而对其施加的外交和经济压力不予理会。
“In the nuclear issue, America and colonial European countries got together and did their best to bring the Islamic Republic to its knees, but they could not do so — and they will not be able to do so,” his personal website quoted him as saying.
“在核问题上，美国和欧洲殖民主义国家联合在一起，竭尽所能地想让伊斯兰共和国屈服，但他们没能得逞，将来也无法得逞，”他的个人网站援引他的话说。
Ayatollah Khamenei has the final say on all important policy matters in Iran, including the country’s nuclear program. His remarks suggested that he would continue to support negotiations, but that he remained skeptical that they would yield a satisfactory agreement.
在伊朗，阿亚图拉·哈梅内伊对包括核计划在内的所有重要政策问题，拥有最终发言权。此番论调表明，他会继续支持谈判，但对能通过谈判达成一项令人满意的协议这一点，他依然持怀疑态度。
Six major powers — Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States — have been negotiating with Iran over the nuclear issue for a year. Iran is widely believed to be developing the materials and means to build nuclear weapons, though it maintains that its program is strictly civilian and peaceful.
英国、中国、法国、德国、俄罗斯和美国六国与伊朗就核问题举行的谈判已持续了一年时间。外界普遍认为，伊朗正在开发制造核武器的材料和方法，但伊朗坚称其核计划仅限于民用及和平目的。
Diplomats from all sides insisted until very recently that the Nov. 24 deadline for a deal was hard and fast. But on Monday, with no final agreement within reach, they extended the deadline until June 30.
直到不久前，来自各方的外交官员还坚持认为，达成协议的最后期限11月24日不可变更。但在周一，由于近期无法达成最终协议，他们把最后期限推迟到了6月30日。
In the Iranian Parliament, lawmakers erupted in their usual chants of “Death to America” after a lawmaker commenting on the deadline extension spoke of “the U.S.’s sabotaging efforts and its unreliability.”
在伊朗议会，一名议员在评论谈判延期时提到了“美国的破坏行动和不可信赖”，随后，议员们像往常一样，大喊“美国去死”。
The lawmaker, Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi-Fard, who is the deputy speaker of the Parliament, said Iran had learned from the nuclear negotiations that it had a strong hand to play. “Today, we can speak to the U.S. and its allies with the tone of power,” he said in remarks quoted by the Fars news agency. “A lesson can be taken from the recent nuclear talks that, for various reasons, the U.S. is not reliable.”
这名议员是议会副议长穆罕默德-哈桑·阿布托拉比-法德(Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi-Fard)。他说，伊朗通过核谈判已经了解到，我们必须要强硬。“如今，我们可以用充满力量的语气与美国及其盟友对话，”法尔斯通讯社(Fars)援引他的话报道。“从最近的核谈判中可以看出，由于种种原因，美国是不可信赖的。”