Iran is flying unarmed surveillance drones over Iraq from an airfield in Baghdad and is secretly supplying Iraq with tons of military equipment, supplies and other assistance, American officials said. Tehran has also deployed a unit there to intercept communications, the officials said.
美国官员表示，伊朗正从巴格达的一个机场向伊拉克各地派遣非武装无人侦查机，并秘密地向伊拉克提供大量军事装备、供给以及其他援助。这些官员还说，德黑兰已经在那里部署了一个通信拦截小组。
The secret Iranian programs are part of a broader effort by Tehran to gather intelligence and help Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki’s government in its struggle against Sunni militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
德黑兰正在展开情报收集工作，帮助伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的政府抗击伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的逊尼派武装分子，这些秘密项目是整体行动的一部分。
Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the head of Iran’s paramilitary Quds Force, has paid at least two visits to Iraq to help Iraqi military advisers plot strategy. And Iran has deployed about a dozen other Quds Force officers to advise Iraqi commanders, and help mobilize more than 2,000 Iraqi Shiite militia members from the country’s south, American officials said.
伊朗准军事部队圣城军(Quds Force)指挥官卡西姆· 苏莱马尼(Qassim Suleimani)上将已至少两次前往伊拉克，帮助伊拉克军事顾问策划战略。美国官员说，伊朗还另外派出了十几名圣城军军官给伊拉克将领出谋划策，并帮伊拉克从该国南部调动了2000多名伊拉克什叶派民兵。
Iranian transport planes have also been making two daily flights of military equipment and supplies to Baghdad — 70 tons per flight — for Iraqi security forces.
伊朗的运输机也一直在每日两次地向巴格达的安全部队输送军事装备和供给，每架飞机载重70吨。
“It’s a substantial amount,” said an American official, who declined to be identified because he was discussing classified reports. “It’s not necessarily heavy weaponry but it not just light arms and ammunition.”
“这是一个可观的数量，”一名美国官员说，由于事关机密报告，他不愿透露姓名。“不一定是重型武器，但也并不只是些轻型武器和弹药。”
The Iranian moves come as the United States is deploying the first of as many as 300 military advisers to assess Iraqi forces and to try to stabilize the deteriorating security situation in Iraq.
伊朗做出这些行动的同时，美国正在派出第一批最多可达300名的军事顾问，前往伊拉克对部队进行评估，试图稳住伊拉克不断恶化的安全局势。
The American and Iranian military moves are not coordinated, American officials said. Even though the United States and Iran both oppose the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, they are still competing for influence in Iraq and are backing opposing sides in the civil war in neighboring Syria.
美国官员说，美国和伊朗的军事行动没有进行协调。尽管美国和伊朗都反对ISIS，但他们仍在伊拉克争夺影响力，在伊拉克邻国叙利亚的内战中分别支持不同的对立方。
“The Iranians are playing in a big way in Iraq,” Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the Intelligence Committee, said in an interview.
参议院情报委员会资深共和党人、佐治亚参议员萨克斯比·钱布利斯(Saxby Chambliss)在一次采访中说，“伊朗人正在伊拉克发挥巨大的作用。”
The security crisis in Iraq was one of the topics in Secretary of State John Kerry’s meetings with allied officials who have gathered here for a meeting of NATO foreign ministers on Ukraine and other issues. On Tuesday night, Mr. Kerry reviewed a number of pressing issues with Catherine Ashton, the foreign policy chief for the European Union, including Ukraine and “the grave security situation on the ground in Iraq,” Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, said in a statement. The Obama administration has sought to open a dialogue with Iran on the Iraq crisis. William J. Burns, the deputy secretary of State, met briefly last week with an Iranian diplomat at the margins of the negotiations in Vienna over Iran’s nuclear program.
伊拉克的安全危机是美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和已在此地聚首的盟国官员们会谈的话题之一，后者到这里是为了参加北约(NATO)外长会议，讨论乌克兰和其他议题。美国国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在一则声明中表示，周二晚间，克里和欧盟外交事务高级代表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)探讨了大量紧迫的议题，包括乌克兰问题和“伊拉克当地严峻的安全形势”。奥巴马政府已设法开启了与伊朗之间的对话来讨论伊拉克的危机。上周，美国副国务卿威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)在维也纳谈判的间歇短暂地会见了一名伊朗外交官，与其讨论了伊朗的核计划。
But Western officials say there appear to be divisions between the Iranian Foreign Ministry, which may be open to some degree of cooperation, and Gen. Suleimani, who was the mastermind of Iran’s strategy in Iraq when Iraqi Shiite militias trained by Iran attacked American troops there with powerful explosive devices supplied by Tehran. The general is also the current architect of Iranian military support in Syria for President Bashar al-Assad.
不过，西方关于表示，伊朗外交部和苏莱马尼上将之间似乎存在分歧，伊朗外交部或许对展开某种程度的合作持开放态度，苏莱马尼担任伊朗对伊拉克战略幕后主脑期间，受过伊朗培训的伊拉克什叶派民兵曾用德黑兰提供的威力强大的爆炸装置袭击驻伊美军部队。苏莱马尼还是伊朗当前给叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)提供军事支持的战略策划者。
“Iran has many different power centers and different elements of Iran are sending different messages and doing different things,” a senior State Department official told reporters on Sunday. “They are definitely extremely interested in what’s happening here, to say the least.”
国务院的一名高官周日对记者表示，“伊朗有许多不同的权力中心，不同的势力在传达不同的信息，采取不同的行动。我至少可以说，他们的确对这里正在发生的事情极感兴趣。”
The United States has increased its manned and unmanned surveillance flights over Iraq since ISIS swept across the north of the country, and is now flying about 30 to 35 missions a day. The American flights include piloted aircraft, such as F-18s and P-3 surveillance planes, as well as drones.
自ISIS横扫伊拉克北部地区以来，美国已经增加了派往伊拉克上空的载人及无人侦察机。美国现在每天派遣飞机完成30至35个任务。执行任务的飞机包括F-18、P-3侦察机等载人飞机，以及无人机。
Iran has mounted a parallel effort, according to American officials. Iran has set up a special control center at Al Rashid airfield in Baghdad, and is flying its own small fleet of Ababil surveillance drones over Iraq, said one American official.
据美国官员透露，伊朗也采取了类似举措。一名美国官员表示，伊朗在巴格达拉希德(Al Rashid)机场成立了特别控制中心，派遣小型燕子(Ababil)无人侦察机编队飞往伊拉克执行任务。
An Iranian signals intelligence unit has been deployed at the same airfield to intercept electronic communications between ISIS fighters and commanders, said a second American official, who also declined to be named because he was discussing classified information.
另一名美国官员表示，伊朗还在上述机场部署了通信情报部队，以截取ISIS作战人员与指挥官之间的电子通讯信息。由于谈论的是机密信息，这名官员拒绝透露姓名。
While Iran has not sent large numbers of troops into Iraq, as many as 10 divisions of Iranian and Quds Force troops are massed on the Iran-Iraq border, ready to come to Mr. Maliki’s aid if the Iraqi capital is imperiled or Shia shrines in cities like Samarra are seriously threatened, American officials say.
虽然伊朗尚未派遣大量士兵进驻伊拉克，但目前最多有10个师的伊朗军队和圣城军在两伊边境集结，他们已经做好准备，一旦伊拉克首都陷入困境，或萨马拉等城市的什叶派圣殿面临严重威胁，他们就会为马利基提供援助。