BAGHDAD — Iraq’s president on Monday formally nominated a candidate to replace Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a political breakthrough that also seemed to take Iraq into unchartered territory, as Mr. Maliki gave no signal that he was willing to relinquish power.
巴格达——伊拉克总统周一正式提名了一位取代现任总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基的候选人。这个伊拉克政局的突破性进展可能也会把该国局势引向未知，因为马利基没有表示出甘心放弃权力的意思。
The nomination of Haidar al-Abadi, who is a member of Mr. Maliki’s Shiite Islamist Dawa Party, came hours after a dramatic late night television appearance in which a defiant Mr. Maliki challenged the Iraqi president, Fouad Massoum, and threatened legal action for not choosing him as the nominee. As he spoke in the middle of the night, extra security forces, including special forces units loyal to Mr. Maliki, as well as tanks, locked down the Green Zone and took up positions around the city, heightening the sense of drama.
被提名的海德尔·阿巴迪(Haidar al-Abadi)是马利基所属的什叶派伊斯兰主义政党达瓦党的成员。就在他被提名之前几个小时，不愿屈服的马利基在晚间电视新闻中出现，向总统福阿德·马苏姆(Fouad Massoum)发出挑战，声言将就未提名自己的问题采取法律行动。在他发表这番讲话的当夜，大批安全部队，包括仍然忠于马利基的特种部队，以及坦克，封锁了巴格达的绿区，并占据了全城的主要地点，进一步增添了局势的戏剧性。
Mr. Maliki’s television appearance, in which he appeared to be trying to intimidate Mr. Massoum by mentioning the army in the context of protecting the constitution, alarmed American officials, and left Baghdad wondering if a coup was underway.
马利基在电视讲话中似乎在恐吓马苏姆总统，马利基讲到要捍卫宪法时提到军队，这引起了美国官方的警觉，也让巴格达各界担心是否在发生政变。
Under Iraq’s constitution, Mr. Abadi now has 30 days in which to form a government that offers meaningful positions to Iraq’s main minority factions, Sunnis and Kurds. During that time, Mr. Maliki will remain as a caretaker leader, and as commander-in-chief of Iraq’s security forces.
根据伊拉克宪法，阿巴迪有30天时间组建政府，新政府需要为伊拉克主要的少数民族逊尼派和库尔德人提供有意义的职位。在这期间，马利基将继续是看守政府领导人和伊拉克安全部队的统帅。
Mr. Maliki’s and Mr. Abadi’s Dawa Party has its roots in the clandestine political opposition to Saddam Hussein’s regime, and Mr. Abadi, like many of Iraq’s current leaders, lived in exile during part of the Hussein regime. He has recently been first deputy speaker of Iraq’s Parliament.
马利基和阿巴迪的达瓦党源于抵制萨达姆政权的隐蔽的反对派政治势力。与很多伊拉克当前的政界领袖一样，阿巴迪在萨达姆统治时期也一度流亡。他新近就任了伊拉克国会的副议长。
The United States has been reluctant to help the Iraqi government as long as it is led by Mr. Maliki, a Shiite Islamist seen by many as exacerbating sectarian and ethnic tensions, alienating some Sunnis and driving them to join the militants.
只要马利基仍在台上，美国就一直不愿意帮助伊拉克，因为很多人认为这位什叶派伊斯兰主义者激化了伊拉克的宗派和部族矛盾，让一部分逊尼派加入了武装分子的阵营。
Even many who are opposed to Mr. Maliki’s coalition appeared ready to accept someone else from inside it. “Really at this point, I think it’s anybody but Maliki,” said a Kurdish politician who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the situation.
就连很多反对马利基联盟的人现在似乎都准备好了接受从其党派中提名的新总理。“真的，在这种时刻，我觉得只要不是马利基，其他人谁都行，”一位库尔德政客说道，由于事件敏感他要求匿名。
Whether Mr. Maliki will accept someone else from his bloc in the top spot remains unclear.
而马利基是否会接受其同一阵营的其他人来接替自己的总理职务仍不得而知。
“The risk is, if he clings to power, he will control the country by force,” said another senior Iraqi politician. “This would be a military coup.”
“现在的风险是，如果他紧握权力不放，他会使用武力控制全国，”另一名伊拉克高级政客说。“这会是一次军事政变。”
Secretary of State John Kerry, in Australia, warned that Mr. Maliki must back the constitutional process and not attempt to circumvent it by using his powers as commander in chief to stay in office. He said that any extralegal effort to cling to power would bring a cutoff of international aid.
美国国务卿约翰·克里在澳大利亚警告说，马利基必须支持宪法程序，不能绕过这一程序，利用其武装总司令的大权继续留任总理。他还说任何试图用非法手段维持权力的做法都会导致国际援助的中断。
“There should be no use of force,” Mr. Kerry said in remarks to reporters in Sydney, where he was meeting with government leaders, “no introduction of troops or militias into this moment of democracy for Iraq.”
“不应有武力的使用，”克里在悉尼对记者讲话时表示，他正在那里与澳大利亚领导人举行会晤，“在伊拉克的这一民主时刻，不应有军队或民兵的介入。”
“Iraq needs to finish its government formation process,” Mr. Kerry added. “And our hope is that Mr. Maliki will not stir those waters.”
“伊拉克需要完成其政府组建程序，”克里说。“我们希望马利基不要搅乱事态。”
Mr. Kerry asserted that the Iraqi people supported a peaceful transition of power and added that there were “three or so” Shiite candidates for prime minister, “none of whom are Mr. Maliki.”
克里断言，伊拉克人民支持政权的和平过渡，并补充说，“有大约三名”什叶派的总理候选人，“没有一个是马利基。”
If Mr. Maliki were to call on the Iraqi Army to back his effort to stay in power, he could face resistance from one or several of the many militia groups that have close ties to political parties.
如果马利基想动用伊拉克军队来支持他继续执政的努力的话，他可能会面临来自一个或几个民兵组织的抵制，这些组织与不同党派有密切联系。
“We’re all worried about a coup d'état,” said Gen. Halgurd Hikmet, the chief spokesman for the Kurdish pesh merga. “Maliki has to know that we have two major units of our troops guarding the Parliament and the Defense Ministry,” he said referring to the Kurdish division of the Iraqi Army.
“我们都担心政变，”库尔德“敢死军”首席发言人赫尔古尔德·希克梅特上将(Gen. Helgurd Hikmet)说。“马利基须知，我们军队中的两支重要部队在守卫议会和国防部，”他说，他指的是伊拉克军队中的库尔德人军团。
There are also the forces loyal to the influential Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who oppose Mr. Maliki and are numerous in Baghdad. And there are the fighters of the Badr Corps, who are technically part of the Iraqi Army but remain closely tied to Hadi al-Ameri, a powerful Shiite member of the Iraqi Parliament with links to Iran. Whether Badr fighters will back Mr. Maliki or will move against him could help determine whether he survives.
也有忠于有影响力的什叶派神职人员穆克塔达·萨德尔(Moktada al-Sadr)的力量，这些力量反对马利基，而且大多在巴格达。还有“巴德尔旅”(Badr Corps)的战士，他们原则上是伊拉克军队的成员，但与哈迪·阿米里(Hadi al-Ameri)保持密切联系，阿米里是伊拉克议会中的一位强有力的什叶派议员，与伊朗有关系。巴德尔战士是支持马利基、还是采取反对他的行动，将会有助于确定他的政治未来。
Whether any of these militias would be deployed is not clear, but the potential for fighting among different factions is real, several people said.
目前还不清楚这些民兵中的某支是否会被调动，但不同派系之间发生战斗的可能性是真的，有些人这样说。
A person close to Mr. Massoum said the president had “taken his briefcase and gone to his office as usual” on Monday morning and that he was calling the leadership of each of the blocs in Parliament so that they can try to meet the 3 p.m deadline to name a prime minister. His presidential guard is on high alert, said a Kurdish leader who was in touch with the guard team, made up of Kurdish pesh merga.
一位接近马苏姆的人说，周一早上，总统已“拿着他的公文包，像往常一样去了他的办公室”，他在给议会中主要集团的领导人打电话，希望他们在下午3点的截止时间到来前提名总理候选人。一位与总统卫队保持联系的库尔德领导人说，总统卫队处于高度戒备状态，这支卫队来自库尔德“敢死军”。
“What Fouad Massoum is doing is trying to make things clear,” said Aram al-Sheikh Mohammed, a leader in Goran, one of the Kurdish parties in the Iraqi Parliament. Although the army was “there in the Green Zone Sunday night, Fouad Massoum’s house was not surrounded” as some media outlets reported, he said.
“福阿德·马苏姆正在做的，是试图让事态变得明朗，”阿兰姆·谢赫·穆罕默德(Aram al-Sheikh Mohammed)说，他是伊拉克议会中库尔德党派的一个、戈兰党(Goran)的领导人。虽然军队“在周日晚出现在绿区，但福阿德·马苏姆的房子没有包围”，不像某些媒体所报道的那样，他说。
“One thing all Iraqis need to know,” Mr. Kerry said Monday, “there will be little international support of any kind” if a decision on Iraq’s leadership “deviates from the legitimate Constitution” and interrupts the government formation process.
克里在周一说，“所有伊拉克人都需知道的一件事情是，”如果有关伊拉克领导人的决定“偏离正当合理的宪法”，中断了政府的组建过程，“将不大会得到国际社会任何形式的支持。”