BAGHDAD — Iraqi security forces and allied Shiite militias seized large parts of Tikrit on Tuesday, amid reports that most of the Islamic State militants battling to hold the city had begun retreating, security officials said.
巴格达——安全官员表示，伊拉克安全部队和来自什叶派民兵组织的盟友，周二夺取了提克里特的大片地区。有报道称，参加守城作战的大部分伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子之前就已开始撤退。
The progress came after a week of heavy fighting to retake Tikrit, a city in the so-called Sunni triangle that holds strategic and emotional importance in the effort to roll back the Islamic State’s lightning advance toward Baghdad in June.
取得这一进展之前，为夺回提克里特而展开的激战已持续了一周。提克里特市地处所谓的逊尼派三角地带。伊斯兰国去年6月对巴格达发起了闪电进军，在击退伊斯兰国攻势的行动中，这片三角地带具有重要的战略和情感意义。
The offensive is the largest pro-government military operation yet, involving a combined force of more than 30,000. And if it succeeds, it would be a significant step in the march north to Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city and an early conquest for the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
这次攻势是迄今为止规模最大的亲政府军事行动，共计有3万多兵力参与。如若成功，这将是向北部摩苏尔挺进的过程中，相当重要的一步。摩苏尔是伊拉克的第二大城市，很早便被伊斯兰国（又名ISIS或ISIL）占领。
Still, previous announcements of victory for the Iraqi government have been reversed before, notably in parts of Anbar Province and at an oil refinery near the city of Baiji. And already, the government offensive has exposed tensions in the American-Iraqi alliance.
然而，以前就出现过伊拉克政府宣布胜利后，战况出现逆转的情况，尤其是在安巴尔省的部分地区和拜伊吉市附近的一处炼油厂。而且政府军发起的这次攻势，已经暴露出了美伊同盟中的紧张气氛。
So far, the United States-led international coalition has sat out the battle for Tikrit, with American officials saying they were uncomfortable with the prominent role of Shiite militias and Iranian military officials in taking a predominantly Sunni city.
迄今为止，对夺取提克里特的战斗，以美国为首的国际同盟一直坐视不管。美国官员表示，在夺取一座以逊尼派为主的城市的战斗中，什叶派民兵组织，以及伊朗军官所扮演的突出角色，让他们感到不适。
Rafid Jaboori, the spokesman for Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, said in a recent interview that despite the absence of direct American involvement in Tikrit, the United States would have “a significant role” in any operation to take Mosul, as would Kurdish pesh merga forces.
伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)的发言人拉菲德·贾布里(Rafid Jaboori)在最近接受采访时称，尽管夺取提克里特的战斗没有美国的直接参与，但在夺取摩苏尔的任何行动中，美国都将发挥“重要作用”，库尔德“敢死军”(pesh merga)也一样。
He added, that the United States and Iran shared an interest in seeing the Islamic State defeated.
他接着表示，美国和伊朗都乐于看到伊斯兰国被打败。
Officials of the Salahuddin Province military command center said Tuesday night that the pro-government forces in Tikrit had advanced within yards of central buildings, including the provincial council and governor’s office, and had surrounded the palaces of Saddam Hussein on the edge of town. Islamic State fighters have posted photographs to social media showing them cavorting on the grounds.
萨拉赫丁省军事指挥中心的官员在周二晚上表示，提克里特的亲政府武装挺进到了距离省议会和省长办公室等核心建筑咫尺之遥的位置，并已包围萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)位于市郊的宅邸。伊斯兰国武装分子发布在社交媒体上的照片则显示，他们在那些地点欢呼雀跃。
The Iraqi security officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the continuing military operation, said they believed most of the Islamic State fighters had begun withdrawing from Tikrit because the pro-government forces had met little resistance by the end of the day. But they were proceeding cautiously because of fears of traps and suicide bombers.
伊拉克安全官员表示，他们认为伊斯兰国的武装分子多数已经开始从提克里特撤出，因为一直到当天夜里，亲政府的部队都没有遇到什么抵抗。由于军事行动仍在展开，这些官员要求匿名。不过，由于担心陷阱和自杀性爆炸，他们在推进过程中仍然保持着谨慎。
There was strong resistance in the northern neighborhood of Qadisiya earlier in the day, and Islamic State fighters bombed a bridge leading north to the village of Alam to slow the advance of pro-government forces, the officials said.
这些官员说，当天早些时候，在卡迪西亚的北部居民区遭遇了顽强的抵抗。此外，伊斯兰国的武装分子炸毁了一座通往北部村庄阿拉姆(Alam)的桥梁，以阻碍亲政府部队的推进。
One concern surrounding the operation is that Shiite militiamen might seek to take revenge on Sunni residents around Tikrit, as happened with earlier militia victories in Diyala Province. Tikrit carries a particular risk, because it was at nearby Camp Speicher that the Islamic State massacred more than 1,000 Shiite soldiers. Leading Shiite clerics have called on the militias to act with restraint as they advance.
这些行动引发的一个担忧是，什叶派武装分子可能会寻求报复提克里特附近的逊尼派居民，就像早些时候民兵在迪亚拉省取得胜利后一样。提克里特尤其面临着风险，因为就是在它附近的斯派克营(Camp Speicher)，伊斯兰国杀害了超过1000名什叶派士兵。主要的什叶派神职人员已经呼吁武装分子，在进军过程中行动保持克制。
North of Tikrit, Kurdish pesh merga forces have intensified their action against ISIS, pushing back against the militants south and west of Kirkuk while supported by American airstrikes. The Kurds also took control of a key route from Kirkuk to Mosul, according to Kurdish officials. ISIS fighters withdrew toward the town of Hawija, where residents said the militants killed a number of their own fighters who had been trying to flee the battlefield.
在提克里特以北，库尔德敢死军加强了针对伊斯兰国的行动，在美国空袭的支援下，反击了基尔库克以南和以西的极端分子。库尔德官员说，库尔德人还控制了一条从基尔库克通向摩苏尔的关键道路。伊斯兰国的武装分子朝哈威加(Hawija)方向撤退，该镇居民说，极端分子杀死了几名试图逃离战场的己方战士。
With those new operations, ISIS is being pushed from several directions at once, and Kurdish forces are signaling that they want a role in any fight for Mosul. As well, the Kurds are seeking to strengthen their hold on Kirkuk, an oil-rich area that has long been the subject of a tug of war between Kurds and Arabs.
由于开展了这些新行动，伊斯兰国同时在几个方向上受到了压力。库尔德部队表示，希望参与夺回摩苏尔的战斗。此外，库尔德人也在寻求加强对基尔库克的控制。这片石油丰富的地区长期以来一直是库尔德人和阿拉伯人激烈争夺的对象。