ISTANBUL — On any given day, the heart of this city’s historic district, where the monuments of three empires — Roman, Byzantine and Ottoman — collide with a mix of majesty and tranquillity, is a bustling center of tourism, one of the world’s most visited places.
伊斯坦布尔——这座城市中心地带的古老街区汇聚着三大帝国——罗马、拜占庭和奥斯曼帝国——的古迹，交织着庄严和宁静的气氛，一年到头，这里都是繁华的旅游中心，是世界上观光客最多的地方之一。
Mixing among German tourists on Tuesday morning, not far from the celebrated Blue Mosque, the authorities said, was an Islamic State operative from Syria in his late 20s, wearing a vest of explosives and determined to kill as many people as possible.
土耳其当局说，本周二上午，在距离著名的蓝色清真寺不远的地方，一群德国游客中混进了一名来自叙利亚的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)行动人员，他大约30岁年纪，身穿炸药背心，一心要炸死尽可能多的人。
The attack left 10 tourists dead, all foreigners, and like other terrorist strikes in recent months in Paris; Beirut, Lebanon; Mali; Egypt; and Baghdad, it resonated far beyond Turkey as civilians were again cut down while going about their daily lives.
这次袭击造成了十名游客遇难，全都是外国人。就像近几个月在巴黎、黎巴嫩的贝鲁特、马里、埃及和巴格达发生的其他恐怖袭击一样，它的影响远远超出土耳其的国境，因为平民再一次在日常生活中遭到了杀戮。
“Today, Istanbul was hit,” said Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, in a statement. “Paris has been hit. Tunisia has been hit. Ankara has been hit before.”
“今天，伊斯坦布尔遭受了袭击，”德国总理默克尔在一份声明中说。“巴黎已经被袭。突尼斯已经被袭。安卡拉之前也已经被袭。”
She continued, “Once again, international terrorism is showing its cruel and inhuman face today.”
她说：“今天，国际恐怖主义再一次展示了它的残忍与冷酷。”
The attack at a bustling center of tourism here underscored what security and political analysts say is an inevitable and grim byproduct of the fight against terrorism and the self-declared Islamic State: Attacks against so-called “soft targets,” while few in number, are likely to continue with chilling regularity.
安全和政治分析人士说，打击恐怖主义和自封的伊斯兰国必然带来严峻的副作用，这在本次繁华旅游中心发生的袭击中就突显了出来：针对“软目标”的袭击虽然数量不多，但很可能持续下去，时不时出现一次，令人不寒而栗。
Tuesday’s bombing came as the Islamic State faces increasing pressure from an international military coalition — of which Turkey and Germany are members — that has accelerated attacks on the group’s oil infrastructure and has recently driven it from one of its key cities in Iraq, the provincial capital Ramadi.
周二爆炸发生之际，一个国际军事联盟正在对伊斯兰国施加越来越大的压力——土耳其和德国都是该联盟成员——它加快了对伊斯兰国石油基础设施的打击，最近还把它从伊拉克重镇、省会城市拉马迪赶了出去。
“It’s clear that they’ve diversified their strategy and are determined to target more soft targets outside their areas, that is, in Syria and Iraq,” said Daniel Benjamin, a scholar at Dartmouth and a former coordinator for counterterrorism at the State Department during President Obama’s first term. He added, “There is a paradoxical situation where they seem to be inflicting more pain while at the same time they are suffering setbacks.”
“很明显，他们在推进战略的多元化，决心超出他们的区域，也就是在叙利亚和伊拉克之外，攻击更多的软目标，”达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth)学者丹尼尔·本杰明(Daniel Benjamin)说，他在奥巴马第一个任期中担任过美国国务院反恐工作协调人。他还表示，“事情出现了两面化，一方面他们似乎在造成更多的痛苦，另一方面他们自己也陷入了不利境地。”
The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, did not immediately claim credit for the attack Tuesday, but Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said it appeared that the attacker — whom President Recep Tayyip Erdogan identified as Syrian — had connections with the terror group.
伊斯兰国也被称为ISIS或ISIL，他们没有立即表示对周二的袭击事件负责，但土耳其总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)说，袭击者似乎与伊斯兰国有联系——总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)称袭击者是叙利亚人。
For Mr. Erdogan, the participation of a Syrian is likely to complicate his government’s cooperation with the European Union in stemming the flow of migrants from Turkey’s shores to Europe, while also steeling his resolve to keep Syrians out of Turkey altogether.
埃尔多安的政府正在与欧盟合作，阻止移民从土耳其海岸前往欧洲。对埃尔多安而言，一名叙利亚人参与本次袭击很可能会令这种合作变得复杂，同时也促使他下定决心要阻止叙利亚人进入土耳其。
Already the country has effectively shut its southern border with Syria to new refugees. Last week, it instituted new visa regulations for Syrians arriving by air, a decision that stranded hundreds of Syrians at the airport in Beirut.
土耳其实际上已经关闭与叙利亚的南部边界，不让新的难民进入。上周，他们还针对乘飞机抵达的叙利亚人制定了新的签证规定，导致数以百计的叙利亚人滞留贝鲁特机场。