BAGHDAD — In a far-reaching deal that helps reunite Iraq in the face of a bitter war with Islamic extremists, the central government agreed on Tuesday to a long-term pact with the autonomous Kurdish region to share the country’s oil wealth and military resources.
巴格达——周二，伊拉克中央政府与库尔德自治区达成一项长期协议，同意分享伊拉克的石油财富和军事资源。在与伊斯兰主义极端分子激战的背景下，这项协议影响深远，有助于伊拉克国内的团结。
The deal settles a long dispute between Baghdad and Erbil, the Kurdish capital in the north, over oil revenues and budget payments. It is also likely to halt a drive — at least in the short term — by the Kurds for an independent state, which appeared imminent this past summer after a violent territory grab by Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
协议解决了巴格达与位于北部的库尔德斯坦首府埃尔比勒之间因为石油收益和预算支付而产生的长期纠纷。它还很可能中止——至少是短期内——库尔德人推动建立一个独立国家的举动。今年夏天，伊斯兰国（Islamic State，亦称ISIS或ISIL）强取豪夺，占领了大片疆土，使得库尔德人独立的前景显得近在咫尺。
As the jihadists marched toward Baghdad in June, routing Iraqi Army forces, the Kurds took full control of Kirkuk and its rich oil fields. And they intensified efforts to market Kurdish oil independently, arguing that the government had withheld payments to Kurdistan that were badly needed to keep up the fight against Islamic State in the army’s absence.
6月，随着圣战分子朝巴格达进军，一路重创伊拉克政府军，库尔德人完全控制了基尔库克地区及其储量丰富的油田。此外，他们还加紧了独立销售库尔德地区石油的工作，理由是中央政府克扣了本应支付给库尔德斯坦的资金，而他们亟需这些钱来在政府军缺席的情况下，持续对抗伊斯兰国。
Now, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi’s government has agreed to pay the salaries of Kurdish security forces, known as the pesh merga, and also will allow the flow of weapons from the United States to the Kurds, with the government in Baghdad as intermediary.
如今，总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)的政府已经同意向名为“敢死军”(pesh merga)的库尔德安全部队支付军饷，而且还将允许美国的武器流入库尔德人手中——条件是要让巴格达的中央政府充当中间人。
“Now the priority really is to confront ISIS,” Hoshyar Zebari, Iraq’s finance minister, said in an interview Tuesday after emerging from the cabinet meeting to finalize the deal after several days of talks.
“现在真真切切的首要任务是对抗ISIS，”伊拉克财政部长霍希亚尔·兹巴里(Hoshyar Zebari)周二接受采访时表示。当时，他刚刚结束旨在敲定该协议的内阁会议。此前，他们已就协议进行了数天会谈。
In reaching a deal, Mr. Abadi, who has been prime minister for less than three months, has further distanced his government from a legacy of bitter sectarian and ethnic division under his predecessor, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. As prime minister, Mr. Maliki deeply alienated the Kurds and enraged Iraq’s Sunni Arab minority with his confrontational personality and policies that were seen as both exclusive and abusive.
通过达成这项协议，刚担任总理不足三个月的阿巴迪使他领导的政府进一步远离了前任努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)所推行的严酷的宗派和族群隔离政策。担任总理期间，马利基强势的个性，以及人们眼中蛮横的排他性政策，极大地疏远了库尔德人，并激怒了伊拉克人口中占少数的逊尼派阿拉伯人。
“The new team, under Abadi, is a cooperative team, a positive team,” said Mr. Zebari, a Kurdish politician who was also Iraq’s foreign minister in the Maliki government.
“阿巴迪领导下的新团队是一个合作的团队、一个积极的团队，”兹巴里说。他是库尔德人，曾担任马利基政府的伊拉克外交部长。
With relations with Kurds now nominally mended, Mr. Abadi’s Shiite-led government faces a tougher task, but a critical one, in reaching an accommodation with the Sunni Arab minority. Relations had grown so hostile in recent years that many Iraqi Sunnis welcomed Islamic State jihadists as their defenders against the government and Iranian-backed Shiite militias allied with it.
现在，阿巴迪领导的以什叶派为主的政府在名义上修复了与库尔德人的关系，但它还面临着一个更加艰巨却更加重要的任务：与人口占少数的逊尼派阿拉伯人达成和解。近年来，双方的关系变得十分紧张，致使逊尼派中的许多人对伊斯兰国的圣战分子表示欢迎，把他们视作保护者——能够对抗政府，以及与伊朗结盟并得到其支持的什叶派民兵。
Reconciling Sunnis with the central government is widely seen as an essential step to retaking land from Islamic State. Mr. Abadi has backed a plan – supported by the Americans – to set up local National Guard forces that would fight alongside the Iraqi Army. But that plan has stalled, as have intermediate steps to arm Sunni tribes, in the face of opposition by some Shiite factions, who worry that the government would be raising a Sunni army that could then turn on Iraq’s Shiites.
让逊尼派与中央政府达成和解，被广泛认为是从伊斯兰国手中夺回土地的关键步骤。一项有美国支持的计划打算在地方上成立国民警卫队，与伊拉克政府军并肩作战，而阿巴迪对此表示赞同。但是，在一些什叶派分支的反对下，该计划已经叫停，同样中止的还有通过中间人武装逊尼派部族的计划。这些什叶派担心，政府将会养出一支有可能会最终调转枪口来对付什叶派的逊尼派部队。
The oil deal, which put a final imprimatur on a temporary pact that was agreed to three weeks ago, also represented a significant victory for the United States, which has made a priority of pushing the Kurds and the central government to settle their political and economic differences.
这项石油协议是对三周前通过的临时协议的最终认可，也代表着美国获得了一项重大胜利。美国一直把推动库尔德人与伊拉克中央政府解决政治及经济分歧当作首要任务。
American officials had expressed fear that if the two parties did not reach some sort of arrangement, the country would break up, with the Kurds pushing forward on longstanding ambitions for independence.
美国官员曾表示担心，鉴于库尔德人不断推动长期以来的独立愿望，如果双方未能达成某种协议，伊拉克就会分裂。
The deal also appeared to be a blow to the ambitions of Turkey, which had positioned itself as the savior of the Kurds by reaching deals – during the impasse of the Maliki years – in which the Kurds would export their oil and gas unilaterally through Turkey. Those pacts were considered illegal by Baghdad and the United States, and in recent months tankers filled with Kurdish oil loaded at a Turkish port were sailing the seas aimlessly, unable to dock anywhere because potential buyers worried about lawsuits.
该协议似乎还给土耳其的盘算带来了打击。土耳其此前一直将自己定位为库尔德人的救星，在马利基执政时期出现政治僵局的时候，与库尔德人达成协议，允许他们通过自己单方面出口油气。不过，巴格达及华盛顿认为，它们属于非法协议。最近几个月，在土耳其港口装载了库尔德石油的油轮在海中漫无目的地航行，无法在任何地方停靠，因为潜在的买家担心遭到起诉。
The rapprochement between Baghdad and the autonomous Kurdish region also appeared to validate one element of President Obama’s strategy in confronting the Islamic State: the push for a more inclusive leader of Iraq. 
巴格达与库尔德自治区友好关系的恢复，看来还证明了奥巴马总统打击伊斯兰国策略中的一个元素是正确的：推动伊拉克产生一位更包容的领导人。
Under the deal, the Kurdistan region will provide 550,000 barrels of oil per day that will be sold through government channels, with the proceeds divided between Baghdad and Erbil. This includes 300,000 barrels per day from the disputed region of Kirkuk, which the Kurds took control over in June after the onslaught by the Islamic State forced the retreat of the Iraqi Army.
根据该协议，库尔德斯坦自治区每天将输出55万桶石油，通过中央政府的渠道出售，收益由巴格达与埃尔比勒分享。存在争议的基尔库克地区每天将输出其中的30万桶石油。在伊斯兰国的攻势迫使伊拉克政府军撤退以后，库尔德人于今年6月掌控了该地区。
At a time when oil revenue is so critical to Iraq, the unlocking of those oil shipments may actually have a temporarily negative effect for the country: With prices recently hitting a five-year low, adding more Iraqi oil to a glutted market may drive them down even further, industry experts say.
石油收入眼下对伊拉克十分重要，然而，现在开放输出石油的举措实际上可能会对该国造成暂时的负面影响：业内专家表示，油价最近跌至五年来的最低水平，此时伊拉克石油投放到供大于求的市场中，可能会促使油价进一步下跌。
The deal signed on Tuesday also stipulates that Baghdad will permanently resume payments to the region – which had been halted under Mr. Maliki amid the dispute – that amount to 17 percent of the national budget, plus another $1 billion to pay for salaries and weapons for the pesh merga, which are on the front lines fighting ISIS, sometimes with Iraqi security forces and Shiite militias.
周二签署的协议还规定，巴格达方面将永久性恢复对库尔德斯坦的拨款，金额相当于国家预算的17%。在马利基执政期间，双方产生争端，中央政府停止了拨款。除此之外，中央政府还要为在前线与ISIS对抗的敢死军提供10亿美元，以支付军饷、购买武器。敢死军不时会与伊拉克安全部队和什叶派民兵组织携手作战。