LAUSANNE, Switzerland — With a negotiating deadline just two days away, Iranian officials on Sunday backed away from a critical element of a proposed nuclear agreement, saying they are no longer willing to ship their atomic fuel out of the country.
瑞士洛桑——周日，距离核谈判最后期限还有两天，伊朗官员表示反对拟议中的核协议的一个关键要素，称他们不再愿意把核燃料运到国外。
For months, Iran tentatively agreed that it would send a large portion of its stockpile of uranium to Russia, where it would not be accessible for use in any future weapons program. But on Sunday Iran’s deputy foreign minister made a surprise comment to Iranian reporters, ruling out an agreement that involved giving up a stockpile that Iran has spent years and billions of dollars to amass.
几个月以来，伊朗在同意将把很大一部分铀储备运到俄罗斯时一直显得犹豫不决，届时这些材料将再也无法用于任何武器计划。然而周日，伊朗外交副部长向伊朗记者做出了一个令人意外的表态，称不会签署一份协议让伊朗放弃多年来斥资数十亿美元积累的核储备。
“The export of stocks of enriched uranium is not in our program, and we do not intend sending them abroad,” the official, Abbas Araqchi, told the Iranian media, according to Agence France-Presse. “There is no question of sending the stocks abroad.”
“这些浓缩铀储备的出口不在我们的计划之中，我们不打算把它们运到国外，”据法新社(Agence France-Presse)报道，这位名叫阿巴斯·阿拉齐(Abbas Araghchi)的官员告诉伊朗媒体。“不可能把这些储备运到国外。”
Western officials confirmed that Iran was balking at shipping the fuel out, but insisted that there were other ways of dealing with the material. Chief among those options, they said, was blending it into a more diluted form.
西方国家官员证实了伊朗不愿把燃料运走的消息，但他们坚称，还有其他办法可以处理这些材料。他们说，其中一个选项是把它们进一步稀释。
Depending on the technical details, that could make the process of enriching it for military use far more lengthy, or perhaps nearly impossible.
这种办法可能会大大延长伊朗出于军事目的进行铀浓缩的过程，或让这一过程几乎无法实现，具体结果取决于技术细节。
The revelation that Iran is now insisting on retaining the fuel raises a potential roadblock at a critical time in the talks. And for critics of the emerging deal in Congress, in Israel and in Sunni Arab nations like Saudi Arabia, the prospect of leaving large amounts of nuclear fuel in Iran, in any form, is bound to intensify the already substantial political opposition to any accord.
伊朗坚持保留这些燃料的消息，可能在关键时期为谈判构成了障碍。考虑到美国国会、以色列以及沙特阿拉伯等逊尼派阿拉伯国家对这份即将成形的协议的批评已经很激烈，把大量核燃料以任何形式留在伊朗的可能性，都必然会加剧协议引起的政治反对。
The Obama administration may be able to make a technical argument that the diluted fuel would not constitute a serious risk, particularly if it is regularly inspected. So far under an interim agreement negotiated in 2013, Iran has complied fully with a rigorous inspection process for the stockpiles of its fuel, the International Atomic Energy Agency has said.
奥巴马政府或许能从技术角度提出，稀释后的燃料将不会构成重大风险，尤其是在定期接受检查的情况下。国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)称，迄今为止，根据2013年达成的一份临时协议，伊朗一直充分遵守了针对其燃料储备的一项严格的核查程序。
But the development could give opponents another reason to object, adding it to a list of what they call concessions made by an administration in search of an agreement. If Iran ever bars the inspectors from the country, as North Korea did a dozen years ago, the international community would have no assurance about the fate of the fuel. Nor has Iran answered longstanding questions about its suspected nuclear design and testing of components that could be used to detonate a warhead.
不过，这一最新进展可能会让反对者获得一个新的理由，因为这正是他们所说的，奥巴马政府为达成协议做出了大量妥协的又一例证。如果伊朗像12年前的朝鲜一样，禁止核查人员进入该国，国际社会就无法掌握这些燃料的下落。至于可疑的核设计以及可能用于引爆核弹头的零部件测试一直都是疑问的焦点，这些伊朗方面都没有给出说法。
The disclosure also adds a new element to the growing debate over whether the proposed agreement would meet President Obama’s oft-stated assurance that the world would have at least a year’s warning if Iran raced for a bomb — what experts call “breakout time.”
这个消息还为一场日益激烈的讨论增添了一个新的元素，即拟议中的协议是否会像奥巴马反复保证的那样，规定如果伊朗打算制造一枚核弹——专家将所需的时间称为“突破时间”，至少会提前一年让世界知道。
The argument over warning time, which was accelerated by a skeptical paper published over the weekend by the former chief inspector of the International Atomic Energy Agency, offered a taste of the kind of arguments already taking shape in Congress.
应该提前多长时间是国会一直在争论的一个问题。周末，国际原子能机构前核查负责人发表了一篇文章充满质疑的文章，让外界对这场争论的激烈程度有了一些了解。
Yet even if a deal was reached by late Tuesday, American negotiators made clear that this was just an interim step, and that any final agreement would require months of negotiations over what were once called “technical agreements” but are now clearly the source of continuing disagreement.
美国的谈判官员也明确表示，即使周二晚间达成了一份协议，也只是临时措施，要达成最后的协议将需要几个月的谈判，这些谈判的内容曾经被称作“技术协议”，现在显然成为分歧的来源。
That calculation over “breakout time” is so complex that experts from Britain, France, Germany and Israel all have somewhat slightly different calculations than those of experts from the United States.
关于“突破时间”的计算是如此复杂，英国、法国、德国和以色列专家的计算结果与美国专家都有所不同。
The debate over breakout time intensified when Olli Heinonen, who ran inspections for the I.A.E.A. before moving to Harvard several years ago, published a paper on Saturday concluding that, based on leaked estimates that Iran would operate roughly 6,500 centrifuges, “a breakout time of between seven and eight months would still be possible.”
奥利·海诺宁(Olli Heinonen)周六发表的论文令“突破时间”的讨论进一步加剧。海诺宁曾在国际原子能机构负责核查工作，几年前开始在哈佛大学工作。他周六发表论文称，根据一些泄露的统计数字，伊朗可能会有6500个离心机投入运转，“七到八个月的突破时间仍然是有可能的”。
A senior Obama administration official here said that while he did not dispute Mr. Heinonen’s figures, the former inspector had conducted a textbook calculation rather than examining the real-life conditions at Iran’s facilities.
奥巴马政府的一名高级官员在这里表示，尽管他不能彻底否定海诺宁的数字，但这名前核查员的计算是教科书式的，没有考察伊朗核设施的实际情况。
Like other countries, Iran loses some of its nuclear material every time it is changed from a gas to a solid, and its machinery, the evidence shows, does not run at perfect efficiency. The official said that the United States had created a measure based on what American officials have called the “fastest reasonable” estimate of how long Iran would take to produce a weapon.
和其他国家一样，伊朗核材料每次从气体转化成固体，都会出现一些损失。此外，有证据显示，其机器设备的运转效率也不是很高。这名官员称，美国创造了一种测量方法，根据的是伊朗制造核武器所需时间的估算，美国官员称这个指标为“最快合理”时间。