To prove that Americans can be every bit as crazy as Iranians, I took my daughter along on my last trip to Iran, in 2012, for a road trip across the country.
为了证明美国人能跟伊朗人一样疯狂，2012年上一回去伊朗的时候，我带上了女儿同行，来了一次穿越伊朗的公路之旅。
Iranians were stunned to see a 14-year-old Yankee teeny-bopper in their midst. In Mashhad, a conservative Islamic city that might seem wary of Americans, three Iranian women in black chadors accosted my daughter — and then invited her to a cafe where they plied her with ice cream, marveling at her and kissing her on the cheek as she ate.
看到一名14岁的美国时髦少女出现在他们当中，伊朗人相当震惊。在颇为保守的伊斯兰城市马什哈德，人们看似对美国佬警惕有加，却有三名身穿黑色罩袍的当地女性与我的女儿搭讪，然后邀请她同去咖啡馆。她们给她一大堆的冰激凌，一边看她吃，一边惊叹，还亲吻她的脸颊。
They weren’t political, but they yearned for Iran to be a normal country again.
她们并不关心政治，但渴望伊朗变回一个正常国家。
As the Iranian nuclear talks creep on into double overtime, let’s remember that this isn’t just about centrifuges but also about creating some chance over time of realigning the Middle East and bringing Iran out of the cold. It’s a long shot, yes, but it’s one reason Saudi Arabia is alarmed, along with Iranian hard-liners themselves. Those hard-liners survive on a narrative of conflict with the West, and depriving them of that narrative undermines them.
随着有关伊朗核问题的谈判悄然进入第二个加时，我们心中惦记的应该不仅仅是离心机，还要创造出些许机会，假以时日能重塑中东并将伊朗带出隔绝境地。的确，成功的希望很渺茫。不过，这也正是让沙特阿拉伯及伊朗本国的强硬派心生警惕的一个原因。那些强硬派的生存资本就是与西方对抗的理论，而拿走这一点会对他们造成打击。
It’s odd to be debating a deal that hasn’t been reached, but, frankly, critics are mostly right in their specific objections to a deal, and in their aspirations for it.
对一份尚未达成的协议进行辩论是有些奇怪，不过说实话，无论是反对协议的一些具体条款，还是表达对协议本身的渴求，评论人士大体并未犯错。
“A better deal would significantly roll back Iran’s nuclear infrastructure,” noted Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. “A better deal would link the eventual lifting of the restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program to a change in Iran’s behavior.”
“一份更理想的协议应当大幅削弱伊朗的核基础设施，”以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)指出。“一份更理想的协议应当将最终解除对伊朗核计划的限制与伊朗行为方式的改变挂钩。”
All true. Of course, a better deal would also involve gifts of delicious Persian baklava for every American. And a pony.
完全正确。当然了，一份更理想的协议应当让每个美国人都得到美味的波斯果仁蜜馅点心做礼物，还有小马驹。
Netanyahu also suggests that a deal would give “Iran’s murderous regime a clear path to the bomb.” That’s a fallacy.
内塔尼亚胡还表示，协议将让“伊朗的杀人政权走上通往核弹的明确道路”。此言谬矣。
Iran is already on a path to nuclear capability. Netanyahu should know, because he’s been pointing that out for more than two decades. Beginning in 1992, he asserted that Iran was three to five years from a nuclear capability. Over time, that dropped to “a year or two,” and then to “months.”
伊朗已经在通往核能力的道路上了。内塔尼亚胡应该明白的，因为过去20多年里他不断地在指出这一点。早在1992年，他就强调伊朗距离获得核能力只有三到五年的时间。随着时间的流逝，他的措辞变为了“一两年”，后来又成了“几个月”。
But even if Netanyahu’s warnings have been alarmist, he has a point: Iran is getting closer. The problem is that fulminations don’t constitute a policy.
不过，就算内塔尼亚胡的警告是危言耸听，他也还是有一定的道理：伊朗正在向那个方向靠近。问题是，单是激烈反对，谈不上什么严肃的政策。
The West essentially has three options:
西方基本上有三种选择：
■ We can try to obtain a deal to block all avenues to a bomb, uranium, plutonium and purchase of a weapon. This would allow Iran to remain on the nuclear path but would essentially freeze its progress — if it doesn’t cheat. To prevent cheating, we need the toughest inspections regime in history.
我们可以尝试达成协议，从而堵住伊朗获取核弹、铀、钚及购买核武器的所有途径。这将允许伊朗继续待在发展核能力的道路上，但会基本冻结它的进步——如果它不加以欺瞒的话。为了防止欺瞒，我们需要施行史上最严厉的监查制度。
■ We can continue the sanctions, cyberwarfare and sabotage to slow Iran’s progress. This has worked better than expected, but it’s not clear that we have a new Stuxnet worm to release. And, partly because of congressional meddling, international support for sanctions may unravel.
我们可以延续制裁、网络战和破坏行动来减缓伊朗的步伐。这方面的成效超过了预期，不过很难说我们是否还有新的“震网”(Stuxnet)蠕虫病毒可以释放。此外，部分由于美国国会的干涉，国际上对制裁的支持可能会分崩离析。
■ We can launch military strikes on Natanz, Isfahan, Arak, Fordow and, possibly, Tehran. This would be a major operation lasting weeks. Strikes would take place in the daytime to maximize the number of nuclear scientists killed. All this would probably delay a weapon by one to three years — but it could send oil prices soaring, lead to retaliatory strikes and provoke a nationalistic backlash in support of the government.
我们可以发动军事袭击，把目标对准纳坦兹、伊斯法罕、阿拉克、福尔道，或许还加上德黑兰。这将是一个延续数周的大行动。为了让最多的核科学家丧命，袭击要在白天进行。这一整套动作很可能会让核武的问世推迟一到三年——可是，这也许会让油价飙升，导致伊朗采取报复性的袭击，并激起其国内支持政府的民族主义情绪反弹。
Imagine if we had launched a military strike against Chinese nuclear sites in the 1960s. In that case, Beijing might still be ruled by Maoists.
假设一下我们在上世纪60年代对中国的核设施发动军事袭击。那样的话，北京可能今天还被毛派把控着。
On balance, with either the military option or the sanctions option, Iran probably ends up with a nuclear capability within a decade. With a nuclear deal, it’s just possible that we could prevent that from happening. Perhaps no deal is achievable; the Iranian side has been recalcitrant lately. In that case, we continue with sanctions and hope that the economic pressure further delegitimizes the government and eventually forces Iran back to the table.
权衡之下，不论是选择动武还是制裁，伊朗都很可能最终会在十年内获得核能力。而有了核协议的话，我们还是有望阻止这件事发生的。或许协议根本达不成；伊朗方面最近表现得不太合作。那样的话，我们可以继续制裁下去，希望经济压力能让德黑兰政府进一步丧失合法性，最终迫使伊朗回到谈判桌前。
But, again, this isn’t just about uranium but also about undermining an odious regime and creating the conditions for Iran to become a normal country. I’ve rarely been to a more pro-American country, at the grass-roots, and there’s a pent-up anger at corruption and hypocrisy. That doesn’t mean that there’s going to be a revolution anytime soon. But it means that there’s a chance for movement after the death of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who is 75 and underwent prostate surgery last year.
然而，话又说回来，铀并不是事情的全部，这还涉及挫败一个可怕政权，创造条件让伊朗成为一个正常国家。我去过的国家里，没有几个在草根层面上比伊朗更亲美，而且那里郁结着对腐败和伪善的愤怒之情。这并不意味着马上会爆发一场革命，但却也意味着最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ali Khamenei)死后有发生变革的可能性。哈梅内伊已满75岁，去年动过前列腺手术。
In the office of Grand Ayatollah Hossein Ali Montazeri, whom Khamenei edged out to be supreme leader, I was once jokingly introduced as coming from the “Great Satan.” An aide, referring to Iran’s own regime, immediately quipped: “America is only Baby Satan. We have Big Satan right here at home.”
在大阿亚图拉侯赛因-阿里·蒙塔泽里(Hossein Ali Montazeri)的办公室，我曾被戏谑地称为来自“大恶魔”国家。他的一名幕僚，马上打趣地提到本国的政权：“美国只是小恶魔。我们自己这里才有大恶魔。”哈梅内伊就是挤掉了蒙塔泽里之后成为最高领袖的。