Following the publication of his book “The Accidental Connoisseur: An Irreverent Journey Through the Wine World” in 2004, the English writer Lawrence Osborne was offered what was, at first, a plum assignment: being flown around the world to write about wine and spirits.
英国作家劳伦斯·奥斯本(Lawrence Osborne)2004年出版的《意外当上品酒师：葡萄酒世界的大不敬之旅》(The Accidental Connoisseur: An Irreverent Journey Through the Wine World)为读者描绘出一桩美差：周游世界，专门写作与葡萄酒和烈性酒有关的东西。
But constantly drinking alcohol, even if to write about it, made Mr. Osborne wonder, he said, “whether I was predisposed to drink in this quite borderline-excessive way.”
但是常年饮酒，就算是为了写作，也让奥斯本忍不住思量：“我是不是喝得有点过头了？”
While traveling across the Islamic world, the idea for his new book, “The Wet and the Dry,” took shape: to analyze his relationship with alcohol against the backdrop of the West and East and their supposed clash of civilizations as the “Alcoholic and Prohibited.”
在伊斯兰国家旅行期间，新书《醉与醒》(The Wet and the Dry)的主题开始成型：以西方与东方、乃至二者在“纵酒与禁酒”上的文化冲突作为大背景，分析他自身与酒的关系。
In the book, Mr. Osborne travels from New York and London to countries like Lebanon, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates. He wound up living in Istanbul and Bangkok, two cities that give license to, but still circumscribe, drinking, existing somewhere between the wet and the dry.
在这本书中，奥斯本从纽约和伦敦出发，到黎巴嫩、巴基斯坦和阿拉伯联合酋长国等国家旅行，后来在伊斯坦布尔和曼谷定居，这两个城市允许在一定范围内饮酒，可谓醉与醒之间的中间地带。
Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Osborne about the unique drinking cultures of Istanbul and Bangkok.
下面是与奥斯本先生探讨伊斯坦布尔与曼谷独特的饮酒文化，对话经过编辑。
Q. What place does alcohol have in Turkish culture? 
问：饮酒在土耳其文化中的地位如何呢？
A. For Turks, drink is part of their secularization. Ataturk not only Romanized the alphabet and got rid of the tarboosh, he also set up these government distilleries for raki, a double-distilled aniseed drink. Ataturk’s idea was that alcohol was modern; if you’re going to be secular, you had to drink. But tensions over this still exist today. This spring Erdogan [Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey’s prime minister] had a plan to ban all alcohol advertising and the sale of alcoholic drinks in shops between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. And in June, it was one of the grievances the protesters [in Taksim Square in Istanbul] had. It wasn’t a smaller matter; it was a very important matter.
答：对于土耳其人来说，饮酒是世俗化进程的一部分。阿塔图尔克（Ataturk，指被誉为“土耳其国父”的土耳其第一任总统凯末尔，他在土耳其实行西化改革——译注）不仅推行罗马字母，改革土耳其传统服饰，他还建立了国立酿酒厂，制造一种名叫“拉吉”(raki)的二次蒸馏茴香酒。阿塔图尔克认为酒是现代化的产物，想推行世俗化，就一定得喝酒才行。但到了今天，矛盾仍然存在。今年春天，土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan) 计划推出禁止一切酒类广告，以及商店晚10点到早6不得销售酒精饮品的方案。而这也成了6月（塔克西姆广场上的）抗议者们不满的事项之一。这可不是什么小事，是很重要的问题。
While I was living in Istanbul in 2011, I got into drinking raki, a clear, fiery drink. My mother had just died, and it’s a great consolation drink. Istanbul itself is a very sad and haunted and multilayered city. People who go there in the summer, I think they think it’s glam and beautiful and la-di-da. I can tell you that if you’re there in December, January, February, when it’s snowing and foggy, it’s a very different place.
2011年住在伊斯坦布尔期间，我迷上了拉吉(raki)，这是一种清冽的烈性酒。当时我母亲刚刚去世不久，这种酒很能安慰人心。伊斯坦布尔是一座忧伤、诡异，有着很多不同层面的城市。人们到这里来消夏，可能是觉得这里迷人、漂亮，而且还很时髦吧。我可以告诉你们，到了多雪多雾的12月、1月和2月，这里又完全是另一个世界了。
Q. Any favorite spot for a drink in Istanbul? 
问：你在伊斯坦布尔最喜欢的饮酒地点是什么？ 
A. I lived in a place called Arnavutkoy along the Bosporus, and I established this daily ritual where around 5 p.m., I’d leave my house and walk two miles over the hill, with a view of the water. And on the waterfront, next to this lovely old 18th-century mosque, there’s this hotel, the Bebek Hotel, with this incredible deck and bar, sea gulls all around it. In winter it was beautiful because no one was there. To be alone with my drink — not three or four, just one — it was bliss.
答：我住在博斯普鲁斯旁边一个名叫安纳伏特托伊的地方，我养成了这样的习惯，每天下午5点左右，就离开家，步行两英里翻越山丘，看看海景。海边古老美丽的18世纪清真寺旁边就坐落着比比克酒店(Bebek Hotel)，那里的露台和酒吧都无与伦比，海鸥成群结队，围绕着它飞来飞去。冬天人少的时候尤其美妙。独酌一杯（可不是三四杯）简直是一种至福。
Q. And Bangkok, what’s its drinking culture? 
问：曼谷的酒文化又是什么样的呢？
A. In Bangkok, you have these weird contradictions. At certain times of the day alcohol is prohibited, in part because of Buddhist tradition. I’d go to my local luxury supermarket, pile my basket up with wine and Champagne to stock the fridge, and the girl at the checkout would apologize profusely, saying, “No, you can’t buy alcohol; it’s 10 to 5.” There’s no kind of oppressive sentiment behind it; it’s more an idea of self-discipline, and that as a society you want to inculcate that.
答：曼谷有很多奇异的习俗。它在每天特定的时间里禁酒，部分是由于佛教传统。我去当地的豪华超市，在购物篮里装满红酒和香槟，塞进冰箱；收款台的女孩一个劲地道歉，“不行，你不能买酒，现在差10分才5点。”这个规定并不带来压迫感，而是关乎自律的理念，这就是令人想要宣扬的理想社会。
But then come nightfall, at 9 o’clock, I can walk down Sukhumvit Road, and suddenly 200 tiny bars on wheels appear out of nowhere. They have a little guy on a motorbike, and there’s a bar in tow with little fairy lights, rows of vodka bottles, a girl in a cocktail dress, little stools to sit on. They make a great dry martini. Then at 6 in the morning, they pack up, and the commuters take over. In some ways it’s unbelievable.
但是一到晚上9点，我就可以步行到Sukhumvit路，突然之间，200多个带轮子的小酒吧就凭空出现了。有个小伙子用摩托车拖来一个酒吧，挂满彩灯和伏特加酒瓶子，还有个穿鸡尾酒会礼服的姑娘。凳子小小的，几乎没法坐，他们调的干马天尼非常好喝。到了早晨6点，他们就收摊走人，由通勤者取而代之。真是令人难以置信。