Assailants with rifles, explosives and women’s disguises stunned Iran on Wednesday with audacious attacks on the parliament building and tomb of its revolutionary founder, the worst terrorist strike to hit the Islamic republic in years.
周三，装扮成女性的袭击者携带着步枪、炸药，对伊朗的议会大楼和革命之父的陵墓发动大胆袭击，制造了这个伊斯兰共和国多年以来最严重的一起恐怖袭击事件。
At least 12 people were killed and 42 wounded in the pair of assaults, which lasted for hours and clearly took Iran’s elite security forces by surprise. The six known attackers also were killed, official media said, and five suspects were reported detained.
两起袭击事件显然让伊朗的精英安全部队措手不及，整个过程持续了数小时，至少有12人遇难，42人受伤。据官方媒体报道，6名已知的袭击者身亡，另有5名嫌疑人被捕。
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps blamed Saudi Arabia and the United States for the assaults even as responsibility for them was asserted by the Islamic State, the Sunni extremist group that has taken credit for a staccato of terrorist attacks around the world in the last few weeks.
伊朗的伊斯兰革命卫队将这次袭击的责任归咎于沙特阿拉伯和美国，虽然逊尼派极端主义团体伊斯兰国(IS)已经表示对此事负责，该团体在过去几周里认领了世界各地的一系列恐怖袭击事件。
If the Islamic State’s claim is true, that would be its first successful attack in Iran, which is predominantly Shiite Muslim and regarded by Sunni militants as a nation of heretics. Iranian-backed forces in Iraq and Syria are helping battle the Islamic State.
如果伊朗伊斯兰国的说法是属实，那么这将是它第一次在伊朗成功开展的袭击事件。伊朗以什叶派穆斯林为主，被逊尼派武装分子视为异端国家。伊朗支持的武装团体在伊拉克和叙利亚参与打击伊斯兰国。
Tensions in the Middle East were already high following a visit by President Donald Trump last month to Saudi Arabia, Iran’s rival. Saudi Arabia led a regional effort on Monday to isolate Qatar, which maintains good relations with Iran.
特朗普总统上个月访问了伊朗的对手沙特阿拉伯之后，中东局势变得十分紧张。沙特阿拉伯本周一带领该地区的一些国家与卡塔尔断绝了来往，后者与伊朗保持着良好的关系。
In a statement, the Revolutionary Guards Corps said: “The public opinion of the world, especially Iran, recognizes this terrorist attack — which took place a week after a joint meeting of the U.S. president and the head of one of the region’s backward governments, which constantly supports fundamentalist terrorists — as very significant,” a reference to Saudi Arabia’s ruling monarchy.
伊朗革命卫队在一份声明中表示：“世界舆论，特别是伊朗，认为这起恐怖袭击事件非常严重——它发生在美国总统和该地区一个落后政府的首脑举行联合会议后的一周内，这些落后政府一直在支持原教旨主义的恐怖分子。”这指的是沙特阿拉伯的国王。
Expressions of sympathy from world leaders for the victims poured in after the assaults. But hours elapsed before a condolence statement from the Trump administration, which has called Iran the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism.
世界各国的领导人纷纷对遭受袭击的遇难者表示了同情。但是直到数小时之后，称伊朗资助恐怖主义的特朗普政府才发表了吊唁声明。
“The United States condemns the terrorist attacks in Tehran today,” the State Department said. “We express our condolences to the victims and their families, and send our thoughts and prayers to the people of Iran. The depravity of terrorism has no place in a peaceful, civilized world.”
“美国谴责今天在德黑兰发生的恐怖袭击事件。”国务院说，“我们向受害者及其家属表示哀悼，向伊朗人民传达我们的哀思和祈祷，在一个和平、文明的世界中，罪恶的恐怖主义没有容身之所。”
Eleven of the victims died at the parliament building, and one at the mausoleum of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, father of the 1979 revolution. Four of the assailants were killed at the parliament, and two at the mausoleum. Five were men, and one mausoleum assailant was a woman.
11名遇难者死于议会大楼，一人死于1979年伊朗革命之父阿亚图拉·鲁霍拉·霍梅尼(Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini)的陵墓。袭击者中四人在议会丧生，两人在陵墓丧生。其中五个是男人，死于陵墓的袭击者中有一个是女性。