After a long history of wars and sanctions, Iraq re-emerged as a critical source of oil in recent years. Mounting Iraqi production helped to ease world oil prices despite the tightening restrictions on Iran and tanking exports from Libya. And Western and Chinese oil companies rushed back, revitalizing long-neglected oil fields in the north and south.
经历了漫长的战争和制裁后，伊拉克近几年重新成为关键的产油国。尽管对伊朗的制裁愈发严厉，利比亚的石油出口也连遭重创，但伊拉克与日俱增的产量帮助平抑了全球油价。而且，西方和中国石油公司蜂拥回到伊拉克，让该国北部和南部长期遭到忽视的油田恢复了活力。
Now suddenly all that progress has been put in jeopardy with the intense military offensive by extremist insurgents.
然而，突然之间，所有进展都因极端主义叛乱分子发起的猛烈军事进攻而处于危险境地。
The stakes for the oil markets are high as the Iraqi government tries to gain control over the situation. An eventual decline in Iraqi exports would put pressure on China and India to increase their imports of Iranian oil again, weakening the United States government’s position in negotiations with Tehran over nuclear policies. Russian oil exports would become more crucial for global markets, potentially strengthening the Kremlin’s hand in Ukraine. And a major spike in global oil prices could help unfriendly regimes like Venezuela.
随着伊拉克政府努力控制局势，石油市场的风险高企。如果伊拉克的出口最终下滑，将让中国和印度面临再度增加伊朗石油进口量的压力，而这会削弱美国政府在与德黑兰就核政策举行的谈判中的地位。对全球市场而言，俄罗斯的石油出口会变得更为关键，可能会增强克里姆林宫在乌克兰事务中的影响力。此外，全球油价上涨可能会帮到委内瑞拉等不友好的政权。
“The collapse of Iraq would bring an international oil crisis,” said Dragan Vuckovic, president of Mediterranean International, an oil service company that supplies state oil companies in Iraq. “It would mean crude oil would go up to $150 a barrel. It could spread unrest to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.”
“伊拉克的崩溃或将引发一场国际石油危机，”为伊拉克国有油企提供石油服务的地中海国际公司(Mediterranean International)的总裁德拉甘·武奇维克(Dragan Vuckovic)说。“这可能意味着原油价格会涨到每桶150美元（约合930元）。它还可能将骚乱扩散至沙特阿拉伯和科威特。”
So far, the oil markets are taking the growing unrest in stride.
截至目前，面对愈演愈烈的动荡，石油市场仍泰然自若。
American drivers are likely to see gasoline prices go up 5 to 10 cents a gallon in the coming days because of the Iraqi violence. But oil prices have been rising modestly compared with what would be expected from a major crisis in the Middle East. At $113 a barrel, global prices remain well below levels that could significantly slow the world economy.
接下来的日子里，美国的驾车者或许会发现，因为伊拉克突发的暴力活动，每加仑汽油的价格涨了5到10美分。但相比于中东若发生重大危机可能导致的情况，油价的涨幅一直较小。每桶113美元的国际油价依然远低于会让全球经济显著放缓的水平。
The stock markets, too, have been relatively calm. And while the yields are rising on Iraqi bonds, they are still below the average over the last year.
股市也比较平静。尽管伊拉克债券的收益率在增加，但却依然低于去年全年的平均水平。
The relatively muted response reflects the supply situation. No Iraqi oil production or export installations have been damaged yet and the unrest may strengthen the hands of Kurdish political leaders in northern Iraq who would like to have a free hand in exporting oil from their province without Baghdad’s interference. And growing oil production in the United States and Canada has helped cut American oil imports, helping to keep global supplies hardy.
相对低调的反应体现出了供需现状。伊拉克尚没有石油生产或出口设施被毁，而且骚乱或许会加强伊拉克北部的库尔德政治领导人的实力，而他们希望能不受巴格达干涉地放手从自己所在的省份出口石油。同时，美国和加拿大不断增加的石油产量已经帮助削减了美国的石油进口量，有助于维持充足的全球供应。
Still, Iraq plays an important role for market stability. With current production of 3.3 million barrels of oil a day, Iraq is the second-largest producer in the OPEC cartel, and it has the potential to become a far larger player on the world stage. Current predictions by the International Energy Agency show Iraqi production growing to 4.4 million barrels a day in 2015 and to nearly 6 million barrels a day by 2020.
虽说如此，伊拉克仍对市场稳定起到重要作用。伊拉克目前的石油日产量是330万桶，是石油输出国组织(OPEC)中的第二大产油国，而且有潜力成为世界舞台上更重要的参与者。国际能源署(International Energy Agency)当前的预测认为，伊拉克的产量将在2015年增加到每天440万桶，到2020年则增至每天600万桶。
That kind of growth will require large amounts of foreign investment to resuscitate Iraqi oil fields that were poorly maintained for decades under the Saddam Hussein regime. The Western oil giants ExxonMobil, BP, Royal Dutch Shell, Occidental Petroleum and Chevron have plowed significant resources in the southern Iraqi fields and the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq. They also have the skilled talent and expertise that Iraq needs and cannot always get from Chinese and other non-Western oil companies investing in the area.
这种增长将需要大量外国投资来恢复伊拉克的油田。在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)几十年的统治下，油田疏于维护。西方石油巨头埃克森美孚(ExxonMobil)、BP、荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)、西方石油公司(Occidental Petroleum)及雪佛龙(Chevron)已在伊拉克南部的油田和北部的库尔德斯坦自治区投入了大量资源。这些巨头还拥有伊拉克所需的技术人才和专业知识，而伊方并不总是能从在该地区投资的中国等非西方的石油企业那里获取这些东西。
“All the oil companies are on alert,” said Daniel Yergin, the oil historian. “They are going to worry about the security of their people and installations. Obviously, no one is going to do anything new. Confidence about the growth of Iraqi oil output becoming a key element of stability in the world oil market is now in question.”
从事石油研究的历史学者丹尼尔·耶金(Daniel Yergin)说，“所有的石油公司都心怀警惕。他们会担忧旗下员工和设备的安全。显然，没有哪家公司打算采取新行动。人们对伊拉克产油量增加的信心已成为稳定国际原油市场的核心要素，但这种信心目前存疑。”
Already, insurgents in recent months attacked and crippled an important northern Iraqi oil export pipeline, meaning a loss of $20 million in daily revenue for the central government in Baghdad. The new attacks will at least delay repairs of the pipeline. This week the insurgents surrounded the Baiji oil refinery, a major source of gasoline and diesel to central Iraq and to a vital power station that supplies Baghdad. Despite conflicting local reports, it seems that the insurgents have taken effective control of the plant, though they are allowing it to continue to operate for the moment.
近几个月，叛乱分子袭击了伊拉克北部一条重要的石油输出管道，使其陷入瘫痪。这意味着，巴格达的中央政府每日将蒙受2000万美元的收入损失。本轮新的攻击至少会推迟对这条管线的修复。本周，叛乱分子包围了拜伊吉的一座炼油厂。它是一个重要的汽油和柴油供应源，服务对象既包括伊拉克中部，也涵盖了一座向巴格达输电的重要电站。尽管当地的报道自相矛盾，然而叛乱分子似乎已经有效控制了这座炼油厂。不过，他们目前仍允许其继续运转。
As grim as the worst-case situations may be, most analysts still say there is no immediate threat to Iraq’s southern oil fields, which account for approximately 90 percent of the country’s production and oil export. Basra, the heart of Iraq’s oil economy, is situated in an area strongly dominated by Shiites who generally support the central government and are implacable enemies of the Sunni forces on the march in the north.
虽然在最糟糕的情况下，局势可能会极其严峻，但大多数分析人士依然表示，伊拉克南部油田还没有受到迫在眉睫的威胁。这里的油田，占到了伊拉克石油产量和出口量的90%左右。伊拉克石油经济的核心巴士拉位于一片由什叶派牢牢控制的地区，而什叶派普遍支持中央政府，是在北部突进的逊尼派武装的死敌。
Badr H. Jafar, chairman of Pearl Petroleum, a consortium that operates in Iraqi Kurdistan, said it was “highly unlikely” that terrorists could disrupt production and operations in southern Iraq. But he predicted that the disruption at the Baiji refinery “is likely to affect the electricity supply to Baghdad.”
在伊拉克库尔德斯坦自治区运营的珍珠石油集团(Pearl Petroleum)的董事长巴德尔·H·贾法尔(Badr H. Jafar)表示，恐怖分子扰乱伊南部石油生产和运转的可能性“极低”。不过他预测，拜伊吉炼油厂受到的干扰“很可能会对巴格达的电力供应造成影响”。
Sadad Ibrahim Al-Husseini, former head of exploration and development at Saudi Aramco, said the new terrorist attacks would mean “higher prices for sure and delayed investments in the south.” But he added that they had also created “three fundamental new realities in Iraq” — some of which could be helpful for global markets, at least in the short term.
曾在沙特阿美公司(Saudi Aramco)开采和发展部任主管的萨达德·易卜拉欣·侯赛尼(Sadad Ibrahim Al-Husseini)说，新的恐怖袭击“无疑”意味着“更高的油价，以及对伊南部投资的推迟。”不过他还说，这些袭击也在伊拉克创造了“三种基本的新现实”——其中有些，至少可能会在短期内有益于全球市场。