BAGHDAD — Iraqi government forces and allied militias took control of the western neighborhoods of Tikrit on Thursday, military officials said, leaving only one area, including a palace complex once used by Saddam Hussein, in the hands of Islamic State militants.
巴格达——军方官员称，伊拉克政府军和来自民兵组织的盟友在周四夺取了对提克里特西部社区的控制权，使伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子手中只剩下一个地区，其中包括萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)曾使用过的一处宅邸。
Military officials said they were confident of declaring victory within a few days in Tikrit, a central objective in rolling back the militants and the government's largest operation against the Islamic State since it swept into much of the country's north and west in June.
军方官员称，他们有信心在几天之内宣布在提克里特获胜。在击退武装分子的行动中，夺回提克里特是一个核心目标，这也是自伊斯兰国去年6月占据伊拉克北部和西部大片区域以来，政府军对其发起的规模最大的行动。
Top Iraqi officials, including Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, visited troops near the front lines Tuesday night and Wednesday. They called for security forces to facilitate the return of displaced civilians from Tikrit and surrounding areas.
包括总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)在内的伊拉克高层官员，在周二夜里和周三慰问了前线附近的部队。他们要求安全部队协助提克里特和周边地区背井离乡的平民回归家园。
Bringing civilians back without revenge attacks or continuing conflict will be the next test for Iraq's government if it holds its gains and completes the operation in Tikrit. The government mustered a 30,000-strong force, the bulk of it fighters from Shiite militias, in an effort to retake the city.
若能守住战果并完成在提克里特的行动，伊拉克政府接下来的考验将是，让平民回到这里，并防止出现复仇式袭击或继续发生冲突。在夺回提克里特的行动中，政府集结了一支3万多人的部队，其中大部分作战人员来自什叶派民兵组织。
The fight for Tikrit has added emotional resonance. It was there that Islamic State fighters massacred more than 1,000 Shiite soldiers from the Camp Speicher base last year, and many Shiites accuse some local Sunnis of taking part.
夺取提克里特的战斗，在情感层面引起了更多共鸣。去年正是在那里，伊斯兰国的武装分子屠杀了1000多名来自斯派克营(Camp Speicher)基地的什叶派士兵，而且许多什叶派指责，当地部分逊尼派参与了屠杀。
Raw emotions were on display in Baghdad on Thursday morning, where several dozen parents of the dead soldiers gathered at the busy Tahrir Square, holding photographs of their sons and calling for an international investigation into the deaths, saying they did not trust Iraqi officials to arrive at the truth.
周四上午，民众在巴格达直白地表达了情感。几十名遇害士兵的父母聚集在繁忙的解放广场(Tahrir Square)，举着各自儿子的照片，要求国际社会对那些士兵的死因展开调查，称他们不相信伊拉克官员能查明真相。
They said they were happy to see the Islamic State falling in Tikrit, but their anger and grief were not assuaged. They placed blame for the massacre not only on the militants but also, in apparently equal measure, on what they said was the cooperation of Sunni tribal leaders and the negligence and corruption of Iraqi officials and their sons' commanders.
他们表示，乐于看到伊斯兰国在提克里特落败，但他们的愤怒和悲痛并未得到缓解。他们将那场大屠杀不仅归咎于武装分子，而且似乎认为，逊尼派部落领袖，以及伊拉克政府官员和他们儿子的指挥官也在同等程度上需要追究责任，因为前者与武装分子合作，后者则腐败、玩忽职守。
“We want a legal trial to bring justice for our sons,” said one father, Mahdi Saleh, clutching a picture of his 22-year-old son Nahum. Standing beside Saleh, another man who lost a son, Ali Shadhan Shahrar, demanded that the perpetrators be “executed in front of the victims' families.”
“我们希望依法进行审判，为我们的儿子讨回公道，”一位名为迈赫迪·萨利赫(Mahdi Saleh)的父亲紧握着22岁的儿子纳胡姆(Nahum)的照片说。站在萨利赫身边的，是另一名失去了儿子的父亲阿里·沙德汗·沙赫拉尔(Ali Shadhan Shahrar)。他要求“当着遇害者家属的面处死”凶手。
“We have no problem with the Sunnis, and we will have unity,” Saleh added. “But peace with those criminals? Never.”
“我们对逊尼派没意见，我们会团结一心，”萨利赫说。“但和那些罪犯和平共处？绝不可能。”
The government advances in Tikrit came as reports surfaced of new abuses by both Iraqi security forces and the Islamic State.
政府军在提克里特挺进之际，也有报道揭露了伊拉克安全部队和伊斯兰国双方新实施的暴行。
Iraqi officials said they would investigate reports of atrocities, filmed and posted in recent months on social media, and committed by armed men in uniforms with the insignia of a special forces unit and other regular government forces.
伊拉克官员称，将对披露暴行的报道进行调查。相关报道是在最近几个月拍摄并发布在社交媒体上的。施暴者是身着制服的武装人员，佩有一支特种部队，以及其他一些政府常规军的徽章。
The images have been circulating on social media, and they were compiled and presented to Iraqi and U.S. officials by ABC News. The images raised the question of whether Iraqi forces may have run afoul of a measure that requires the U.S. government to cut off aid to foreign militaries that commit human rights abuses.
这些影像一直在社交媒体上传播，此外，ABC新闻台已经将这些画面编辑起来，展示给了伊拉克和美国官员。这些影像让人们开始追问，伊拉克军方是否违反了一项规定。该规定要求美国政府对存在侵犯人权行为的外国军方切断援助。
One video shows what appears to be a 12-year-old boy being shot to death in the street after being accused of working with the Islamic State. Another shows two civilians being shot after insisting they were not involved with the militant group; fighters then riddle their bodies with bullets. Another apparently shows a civilian being beheaded, and other images show a head propped on the front bumper of a military vehicle that appears to be an American-made Humvee.
一个视频似乎显示，一名12岁的男孩在被指协助伊斯兰国之后，在街头遭到射杀。另一段视频则显示，两名平民坚称没有参与这个极端组织，但接着就被枪杀，武装人员随后对他们的尸体进行了扫射。另一则视频似乎展示了一名平民被斩首的画面，还有一些画面显示，一个军方车辆前的保险杠上挂了一颗人头。该车似乎是一辆美国制造的悍马(Humvee)。
Iraqi officials have showed footage to the BBC that they said proved that the Islamic State was using chlorine gas in roadside bombs. The images show orange clouds rising from the bombs as Iraqi ordnance disposal teams detonate them. Chlorine, while not as dangerous as substances like sarin, banned by international treaty, can cause coughing and burning eyes and in close quarters can be fatal.
伊拉克官员向BBC展示了一些视频，称这些视频证明伊斯兰国在街头炸弹中加入了氯气。图像显示，在伊拉克的爆炸物处理小组引燃炸弹之后，升腾起了橙色的烟雾。氯气虽然不像沙林等物质那么危险，但在国际公约中也被明令禁止，它可能引发咳嗦和眼部红肿，在较近的距离甚至可能致命。
During the past week of battle, military officials in Salahuddin province said that dozens of residents of the city of Samarra, near the front lines but not part of the fighting, were sickened when a bomb containing chlorine exploded in a pile of garbage.
萨拉赫丁省的军方官员说，在过去一周的战斗中，一个垃圾堆里曾发生过含氯炸弹爆炸的事件，令数十名萨马拉市居民出现不适。萨马拉市位于前线附近，但没有卷入战争。
Iraqi officials said that two mass graves discovered in Tikrit, believed to be Speicher victims, would be excavated methodically.
伊拉克官员称，提克里特发现的两个集体墓穴将被有条不紊地挖掘。据信里面埋的是斯派克营的遇害者。
A militia leader told Iraqiya state television that another grave had been found, which he said appeared to be holding recent, hastily buried Islamic State casualties of the current battle.
一名民兵领袖告诉伊拉克国家电视台(Iraqiya)，还发现了另一处墓穴，里面似乎是当前战斗中的伊斯兰国死难者，尸体是不久前匆忙掩埋的。
Abadi was joined on his visit to the front by Nouri al-Maliki, the former prime minister who was in office when the Islamic State took over Tikrit and was later pushed out amid allegations that his sectarian policies had created fertile ground for the militants.
与阿巴迪一同访问前线的还有前总理努里·马利基(Nouri al-Maliki)，就是在他当政时期，伊斯兰国夺取了提克里特。马利基后来被罢免，原因是他具有教派倾向的政策被指为极端分子提供了土壤。