FACED with a horror like the slaughter of 148 schoolchildren and school staff members by the Taliban in Pakistan, it is tempting to describe the act as “inhuman” or “medieval.” What made the massacre particularly chilling, though, is that it was neither. The killings were all too human and of our time.
塔利班在巴基斯坦屠杀了148名小学生和教职工，面对这种可怕行径，很容易将其形容为“非人类”或“原始”的行为。但这起屠杀事件让人觉得尤其恐怖的是，这两种形容方式都不对。此次的屠杀是人类所为，而且代表着我们生活的时代。
The Peshawar massacre may have been particularly abhorrent, but the Taliban have attacked at least 1,000 schools over the past five years. They have butchered hundreds through suicide bombings of churches and mosques. And beyond Pakistan lies the brutality of groups like the Islamic State, Boko Haram and the Shabab.
白沙瓦屠杀事件可能尤其恶毒，但塔利班在过去五年至少对1000所学校发动了攻击。他们已经通过对教堂及清真寺开展自杀式爆炸袭击杀害了数百人。在巴基斯坦以外的地方，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)、博科圣地(Boko Haram)及青年党(Shabab)等组织也在实施暴行。
What seems to bind these groups together is that they claim to act in the name of Islam. Why, many ask, do so many of today’s most vicious conflicts appear to involve Islamists? And why do Islamist groups seem so much more vicious, sadistic, even evil?
这些组织的共同点是，他们都声称以伊斯兰教的名义开展行动。很多人会问，为何现在的很多激烈冲突似乎都涉及伊斯兰主义者呢？为何伊斯兰主义组织看起来都如此凶狠，残暴，甚至邪恶呢？
Muslims are not the only religious group involved in perpetrating horrors. From Christian militias in the Central African Republic reportedly eating their foes to Buddhist monks organizing anti-Muslim pogroms in Myanmar, there is cruelty aplenty in the world. Nor are religious believers alone in committing grotesque acts. Yet, critics argue, there appears to be something particularly potent about Islam in fomenting violence, terror and persecution.
穆斯林并非唯一实施恐怖行径的宗教群体。从据称吃掉敌人的中非共和国基督教民兵组织到组织反穆斯林屠杀行动的缅甸佛教僧徒，这个世界存在很多暴行。也不只有信徒才会做出丑恶行为。但批评人士辩称，伊斯兰教在激起暴力、恐怖及迫害活动方面似乎有着特别强大的力量。
These are explosive issues and need addressing carefully. The trouble is, this debate remains trapped between bigotry and fear. For many, the actions of groups like the Islamic State or the Taliban merely provide ammunition to promote anti-Muslim hatred.
这是一些容易引发冲突的问题，需要小心谨慎地解决。问题是，这场争论因为偏见和恐惧而陷入困境。对于很多人来说，伊斯兰国或塔利班等组织的行动最终只为煽动反穆斯林仇恨提供了依据。
Many liberals, on the other hand, prefer to sidestep the issue by suggesting that the Taliban or the Islamic State do not represent “real Islam” — a claim made recently, in so many words, by both President Obama and David Cameron, the prime minister of Britain. Many argue, too, that the actions of such groups are driven by politics, not religion.
另一方面，很多自由主义者倾向于回避这一问题，他们认为塔利班或伊斯兰国不代表“真实的伊斯兰教”，奥巴马总统和英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)最近大费口舌，阐述了这一主张。很多人又说，这类组织的行动是出于政治动机，与宗教无关。
Neither claim is credible. A religion is defined not just by its holy texts but also by how believers interpret those texts — that is, by its practices. The ways in which believers act out their faith define that faith. The fact that Islamist extremists practice their religion in a manner abhorrent to liberals does not make that practice less real.
但两方的说辞都不可信。宗教不仅仅是由神圣的经文所界定的，还有信徒对经文的诠释——也就是他们的行为。信徒们践行信仰的方式是对这种信仰的界定。伊斯兰极端主义者践行宗教的方式让自由主义者感到厌恶，这一事实并不影响这种践行方式的真实性。
Nor does it make sense to think of the Taliban or the Islamic State as motivated simply by politics, any more than it does to imagine them as purely religious. Radical Islam is the religious form through which a particular kind of barbarous political rage expresses itself.
认为塔利班或伊斯兰国纯粹出于宗教动机，这讲不通，认为他们只是简单出于政治目的也说不通，极端伊斯兰主义是一种宗教形式，一种粗暴地表达政治愤怒的方式。
Instead, we need to ask why political rage against the West takes such nihilistic forms today. And why has radical Islam become its principal vehicle?
我们需要问的是，对西方国家的政治愤怒如今为何会以这种恐怖主义形式呈现。以及极端伊斯兰主义为何会成为其主要工具？
The character of anti-Western sentiment has changed strikingly in recent decades. There is a long history of anti-imperialist movements stretching from the Haitian revolution of the 1790s to the independence movements of the 1960s and ’70s in Africa and Asia. While these challenged Western power and often used violent means, they were rarely “anti-Western” in an essential sense. Indeed, their leaders often embraced revolutionary ideas that came out of the West, self-consciously locating themselves in the tradition of the European Enlightenment.
最近几十年，反西方情绪的特征出现了显著改变。反帝国主义运动有着悠久的历史，从18世纪90年代的海地革命到20世纪60、70年代非洲及亚洲地区的独立运动。虽然这些运动对西方势力形成挑战，而且通常借助暴力形式，但从本质意义上来看，这算不上是“反西方”的运动。实际上，这些国家的领导人通常都接纳了源自西方的革命思想，秉承欧洲启蒙运动的传统，自觉确立了自己的位置。
Frantz Fanon, the Martinique-born Algerian nationalist, was one of the most important anticolonial theorists. The aim, he suggested, was not to reject Western ideas, but to reclaim them.
出生在马提尼克的阿尔及利亚民族主义者弗朗茨·法农(Frantz Fanon)是最重要的反殖民主义理论家之一。他认为，目的不是排斥西方思想，而是收为己用。
“All the elements of a solution to the great problems of humanity have, at different times, existed in European thought,” he wrote. “But Europeans have not carried out in practice the mission which fell to them.”
“解决人类重大问题的所有元素，在不同的时间，都存在于欧洲的思想中，”他写道。“但是，欧洲人并没有把落在他们肩上的使命在实践中予以完成。”
Anti-imperialists of the past saw themselves as part of a wider political project that sought to modernize the non-Western world, politically and economically. Today, however, that wider political project is itself seen as the problem. There is considerable disenchantment with many aspects of modernity, from individualism to globalization, from the breakdown of traditional cultures to the fragmentation of societies, from the blurring of moral boundaries to the seeming soullessness of the contemporary world.
昔日的反帝国主义者，自认为隶属于一个更广泛的政治规划，为的是在政治上和经济上为非西方世界赋予现代性。但是现在，这种更广泛的政治规划本身就被视为一个问题。从个人主义到全球化，从传统文化的破坏到社会的碎片化，从当代世界道德界限的模糊到似乎缺失灵魂的状态，现代性的种种这些方面，已经让它的魅力消散了很多。
In the past, racists often viewed modernity as the property of the West and regarded the non-Western world as incapable of modernizing. Today, it is radicals who often regard modernity as a Western product, and reject both it and the West as tainted goods.
在过去，种族主义者通常把现代性视为现代西方国家的属性，认为非西方世界没有现代化的能力。今天，把现代性视为西方的一个产品，把两者都作为污点商品予以拒绝的，往往是激进分子。
The consequence has been the transformation of anti-Western sentiment from a political challenge to imperialist policy to an inchoate rage against modernity. Many strands of contemporary thought, including those embraced by “deep greens” and the far left, express aspects of such discontent. But it is radical Islam that has become the lightning rod for this fury.
后果就是，反西方情绪已经从帝国主义政策的一个政治挑战，转变成为了针对现代性的不成熟的怒火。当代思想的很多流派，包括“深绿”和极左团体拥护的那些，从诸多方面表达了这种不满。而激进的伊斯兰分子，则成为聚集这种愤怒的引雷针。
There are many forms of Islamism, from the Taliban to Hamas, from the Muslim Brotherhood to Boko Haram. What they have in common is a capacity to fuse hostility toward the West with hatred for modernity and, seemingly, to provide an alternative to both. Islamists marry political militancy with a conservative social sensibility, a hostility to globalization with the embrace of a global ummah (the worldwide community of Muslim believers). In so doing, they turn the contradictory aspects of their rage against modernity into a strength.
伊斯兰主义具有多种形式，从塔利班到哈马斯，从穆斯林兄弟会到“博科圣地”。他们的共性是有能力把对西方敌意和对现代性的仇恨融合起来，而且貌似能为这两者提供一种替代品。伊斯兰主义者把政治化的武装斗争和一种保守的社会情感结合起来，把对全球化的敌意与对全球“乌玛”（ummah，穆斯林信徒的全球性社区）的拥抱结合起来。在这样做的过程中，他们把自己对现代性的那种愤怒转化为了力量。