WASHINGTON — To the Israeli government, the preliminary deal with Iran that the Obama administration is trying to seal this week is a giveaway to a government that has spent two decades building a vast nuclear program. It enshrines the current status quo — at a time when the Iranians are within reach of the technical capability to build a bomb — and rewards some unproven leaders with cash and sanctions relief.
华盛顿——在以色列政府看来，奥巴马政府打算在本周和伊朗敲定的初步协议，是对这个20年来一直在营建大型核项目的政府的馈赠。它是对现状——伊朗距离获取制造核弹的技术能力仅有咫尺之遥——的一种认可，是向底细不明的伊朗领导人奉上一份现金和解除制裁的大礼。
President Obama and his top aides see the same draft deal in sharply different terms. To them, it is a first effort to freeze the Iranian program, to buy some time to negotiate a more ambitious deal, and to stop two separate methods of developing a bomb, one involving uranium, the other plutonium. In return, the Iranians get modest relief from sanctions, but not what they desperately desire, the ability to again sell oil around the world. That would come only later as part of a final agreement that would require the Iranians to dismantle much of their nuclear infrastructure.
而同样是这份协议草案，在奥巴马总统和他的高级助手们眼里却有着截然不同的意义。他们认为这是第一次有人尝试去冻结伊朗核项目，可以争取到时间，以便就一份更重大的协议展开谈判，并可以终止两种不同的核弹开发方法——一种用到铀，一种用到钚。作为回报，伊朗人得到的是制裁适度放松，但还不至于让他们拥有迫切需要的东西，即可以重新向世界各地出售石油。那一点会包含在最终的协议里，需要伊朗首先拆除该国的许多核基础设施。
Those two divergent views have deeply politicized the question of whether the accord that the United States and its European allies are considering should be termed a good deal or a bad one. It is a fundamental disagreement that has left in tatters whatever halfhearted efforts Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel have made over the past five years to argue that they are on the same page when it comes to Iran.
由于这种观点上的背道而驰，美国及其欧洲盟友在考虑的这份协议是好是坏，在判断上就有了浓重的政治色彩。无论奥巴马和以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在过去五年里多少次缺乏诚意地表示，他们在伊朗问题上有着一致的立场，这种根本上的分歧彻底粉碎了他们之间的共识。
Every time Mr. Obama and his secretary of state, John Kerry, ask for a little time and space to test the new Iranian leadership’s claims that it is ready for a new approach, and for compromise, Mr. Netanyahu responds that the proposed agreement is “a very bad deal,” “extremely dangerous,” “a mistake of historic proportions” or, as he said in an interview with CNN on Sunday, “an exceedingly bad deal.” And he has often raised the specter of an Israeli strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities even if a deal is signed, something the Obama administration believes would split apart the global coalition it has built to squeeze Iran.
每当奥巴马和他的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)提出，要给这个声称希望走出一条新路的伊朗新政府一些时间和空间，并要求做出妥协时，内塔尼亚胡都会回应说，这个协议提案是“一笔很差劲的交易”、“极为危险”、“历史性的错误”，或者像他在周日接受CNN采访时所说，“一次极其糟糕的交易”。他经常旁敲侧击地表示，就算签订了协议，以色列还是会打击伊朗的核设施，而奥巴马政府认为，以色列的打击会撕裂对伊朗施加压力的全球联盟，。
Yet the disagreement is about far more than negotiating tactics. In interviews, both American and Israeli officials concede that the terms of the preliminary accord reflect a difference in fundamental goals. Mr. Obama speaks often of his determination to prevent Iran from ever obtaining a nuclear weapon; Mr. Netanyahu sets a far higher bar of preventing Iran from ever gaining the capability to ever build one.
然而分歧远非仅存于谈判战术的层面。美国和以色列官员在采访中都承认，初步协议中的条款反映出一种在根本目标上的分歧。奥巴马经常谈起他要阻止伊朗获取核武器的决心；内塔尼亚胡的标准则要高出许多，他希望伊朗连制造核武器的能力都不要有。
Mr. Netanyahu “will be satisfied with nothing less than the dismantlement of every scrap of the Iranian nuclear infrastructure,” one administration strategist said the other day. “We’d love that, too — but there’s no way that’s going to happen at this point in the negotiation. And for us, the goal is to make sure that we are putting limits and constraints on the program, and ensuring that if the Iranians decided to race for a bomb, we would know in time to react.”
要想让内塔尼亚胡满意，“除非伊朗核设施全部被夷为平地，”奥巴马政府的一名策略师有一次说。“我们也巴不得——但是在谈判的这个阶段，那是不可能的。我们这边的目标是确保给核项目设置限制和约束，要保证一旦伊朗人打算突击赶制核弹，我们能及时做出反应。”
The White House, alarmed by Mr. Netanyahu’s outspoken opposition and by an effort in Congress to enact a new round of sanctions on Iran that is supported by Israel, is trying to shore up its own arguments. Mr. Obama is bringing the leaders and ranking members of the Senate foreign relations, intelligence, armed services and banking committees to the White House on Tuesday to make the case that if Iran is going to be coaxed into a deal, the country’s new leaders must go home with some modest appetizer of sanctions relief — as an indication that the United States is ready to deal.
内塔尼亚胡的公开反对，再加上国会内有人在以色列的支持下要求对伊朗展开新一轮的制裁，让白宫感到不妙，于是开始努力为自己的立场辩护。周二，奥巴马邀请参议院外交、情报、军队和银行委员会的领导人和高级别成员到白宫，向他们说明伊朗即将在循循善诱下签署协议，而该国的领导人必须拿着点适度解除制裁的开胃菜回去——以此来表明美国是愿意做交易的。
Mr. Netanyahu’s camp and some Israeli analysts say the Israeli leader’s unstinting opposition is both substantive and political. He truly believes that a deal lifting sanctions without fully halting enrichment and dismantling centrifuges is a terrible mistake. But he has also staked his premiership on fighting the Iranian nuclear threat, and the change in approach by his closest allies leaves him a bit rudderless.
内塔尼亚胡的阵营与一些以色列分析人士都说，以色列领导人的这种不遗余力的反对是兼有实质和政治成分的。他的确认为，在没有完全制止浓缩、拆除离心机的情况下解除制裁是一个可怕的错误。但与此同时，他的总理宝座也是和这场与伊朗核威胁的斗争息息相关的，最亲密盟友做出的策略改变让他有些不知所措。
“The situation has changed and everybody else except Israel understands that a deal means to be more flexible,” said Giora Eiland, a senior research fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “Netanyahu speaks only about a good deal. The Americans are speaking about a reasonable deal, which is better than having no deal at all.”
“情况发生了改变，大家都知道要达成协议一定要更灵活一些，只有以色列不明白，”特拉维夫的国家安全研究所(Institute for National Security Studies)高级研究员纪欧阿·艾兰德(Giora Eiland)说，“内塔尼亚胡只关心好交易。美国人说的是合理的交易，总比没有交易好。”
For his part, Mr. Kerry has questioned publicly whether Mr. Netanyahu is aware of all the details in the agreement. And in some cases, Israeli officials appear to have distorted what Iran would get in return.
至于克里，他公开质疑内塔尼亚胡是否了解协议的全部细节。在某些情况下，以色列官员似乎有意曲解了伊朗将会获得的回报。
At a briefing with international journalists on Wednesday, Yuval Steinitz, Israel’s minister of strategic affairs, said the deal would directly erase $15 billion to $20 billion of what he estimated was the $100 billion the current sanctions are costing Iran annually, and lead to relief of up to $40 billion because of indirect effects. The State Department immediately debunked those numbers, noting the sanctions relief would be for only six months, not a year. And the Americans put the figure at under $10 billion. But Israeli leaders have continued to cite the higher estimates.
在周三面向各国记者的吹风会上，以色列战略部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)表示，他估计目前的制裁措施每年会让伊朗损失1000亿美元（约合6100亿元人民币），而协议将直接撤销其中的150亿到200亿；通过间接影响，还能带来400亿美元的好处。美国国务院迅速对这些数字予以了反驳，指出放松制裁期仅为六个月，而不是一年。美国估算的金额不足100亿美元。可是，以色列领导层继续援引较高的数据。
“We want an outcome more like Libya, less like North Korea,” Mr. Steinitz said during a recent visit to Washington. He was referring to the 2003 deal in which Libya turned over every element of its nuclear program to American and international inspectors, who flew the parts out of the country. North Korea, in contrast, disabled its plutonium-producing reactor five years ago and now appears to have just restarted it, without a public condemnation from the White House.
最近访问华盛顿期间，施泰尼茨称，“我们期望，结果更接近利比亚，而不是朝鲜。”他指的是2003年达成的一项协议。当时，利比亚将核项目全盘交由美国和国际监察员处置，随后各个部件被他们空运出国。相比之下，朝鲜五年前关停了钚反应堆，现在又疑似刚刚重启，白宫却没有做出公开谴责。
But at the more basic level, this is an argument about more than just what the Iranians give up, and what they get in return. “In order to get into sync on the strategy, you need trust, and the trust has been eroded.” said Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, who has just returned from Israel and is lobbying vigorously against the preliminary deal.
不过，在基本层面上，这场争论并不仅仅是伊朗放弃什么、又会得到什么的问题。反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)的全国主管亚伯拉罕·福克斯曼(Abraham H. Foxman)说，“为了在战略上同步，需要彼此信任，但这种信任已经被侵蚀了。”他刚从以色列回到美国，正在大力游说，反对这项初步协议。