An influential Iranian lawmaker on Tuesday accused the United States of having “kidnapped” the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, saying it was an attempt to “sabotage the relationship between Iran and China and South East Asia.”
一名颇有影响力的伊朗议员于本周二指责，美国“劫持”了失联的马航370次客机，称美国此举意在“破坏伊朗与中国及东南亚各国的关系”。
The parliamentarian, Hossein Naghavi Hosseini, who is the spokesman for the foreign policy committee, responded to the news on Tuesday that two Iranian nationals had been traveling on the missing flight holding stolen passports. This accusation was a “plot,” Mr. Naghavi Hosseini said, according to the Tasnim news agency.
前述议员是伊朗外交政策委员会发言人侯赛因·纳格哈维·侯赛尼(Hossein Naghavi Hosseini)，本周二，他对两名伊朗籍人士持被盗护照登上失联航班的消息作出了回应。据伊朗Tasnim通讯社报道，格哈维·侯赛尼当时说，对这二人的指控是一个“阴谋”。
“Documents published by the Western media about two Iranians getting on the plane without passports is psychological warfare. Americans recruit some people for such kinds of operations so they can throw the blame on other countries, especially Muslim countries,” he said.
他说，“西方媒体公布了关于两名没有护照的伊朗人登上失联航班的文件，这是一种心理战。是美国人雇佣一些人搞出了这些名堂，目的是把罪名栽赃给其他国家，尤其是穆斯林国家。”
Thousands of Iranians, if not more, wait in Asian countries with friendly visa rules to make journeys to the West and to Australia. Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia in particular are popular springboards for middle-class Iranians who enter on tourist visas and are then helped by local travel agents and human smugglers to travel to Western countries.
在签证规则宽松的亚洲国家等着前往西方或澳大利亚的伊朗人纵然没有一万，也得有好几千。对持旅行签证入境的伊朗中产阶级民众而言，泰国、马来西亚和印度尼西亚是格外受欢迎的跳板，到了这些国家之后，他们将在当地旅行社和人贩子的帮助下前往西方国家。
Interpol had confirmed on Sunday that two passports, an Austrian and an Italian, were recorded in its Stolen and Lost Travel Documents (S.L.T.D.) database and were used by passengers on board Flight 370.
国际刑警组织已在周日确认，370次客机上的两名旅客使用了两本列入该组织被盗及遗失旅行证件数据库(SLTD)的护照，其中一本护照是奥地利的，另一本是意大利的。
On Tuesday, Ronald K. Noble, Interpol’s secretary general, said the two men’s identities were confirmed by Iranian authorities as Seyed Mohammed Reza Delavar, 29, and Pouria Nourmohammadi, 18.
本周二，国际刑警组织总干事罗纳德·K·诺布尔(Ronald K. Noble)说，这两名男子的身份已被伊朗当局确认，他们是29岁的德拉瓦尔·赛义德·穆罕默德·雷扎(Delavar Seyed Mohammad Reza)和18岁的普里奥·努尔姆哈马迪(Pouria Nourmohammadi)。
He said the Iranian authorities had also determined that neither of the men had a criminal record and that both had left Iran legally.
他说，伊朗当局还认定，二人都没有犯罪记录，都是合法离开伊朗的。