When the producers of the FX series “The Americans,” an espionage thriller set in the early 1980s, began preparing a story line about the government’s covert efforts to help contra rebels in Nicaragua, they wanted to consult with someone well versed in this chapter of recent history.
FX电视台的《美国谍梦》(The Americans)是一部以上世纪80年代初为背景的间谍惊悚剧，其中涉及了美国政府帮助尼加拉瓜反政府武装人员的秘密行动。当该剧的制片人着手策划这部分故事情节时，他们希望找到一个非常熟悉这段并不久远的历史的人进行咨询。
So they reached out to colleagues within Fox, the parent company of FX, and were soon connected to an expert with unique firsthand knowledge: Oliver North, the former Marine Corps lieutenant colonel and National Security Council aide, and a central figure in the Iran-contra scandal.
于是，他们求助于FX的母公司福克斯娱乐集团(Fox)内部的同事，并很快联系上了一个拥有独一无二的一手资料的专家：奥利弗·诺斯(Oliver North)——前美国海军陆战队中校、国家安全委员会(National Security Council)助理、伊朗门事件的核心人物。
Mr. North provided the producers of “The Americans” with so much detail and color for the April 23 episode that he was rewarded with a story credit. In that episode, the show’s main characters — a pair of K.G.B. spies (Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys) masquerading as a wholesome couple in suburban Virginia — try to infiltrate a contra training camp on American soil.
针对4月23日播出的这一集，诺斯为《美国谍梦》的制片人提供了如此多的细节和生动描述，以至于他被列为了该集的编剧之一。在该集中，剧中主角——伪装成弗吉尼亚郊区一对模范夫妇的克格勃(KGB)特工（凯丽·罗素[Keri Russell]和马修·瑞斯[Matthew Rhys]）——试图渗透尼加拉瓜反政府武装人员在美国国土上的一个训练营。
But with Mr. North’s involvement comes the potential for a whirlwind of controversy; questions about why he should be allowed to benefit from his notoriety; and the possibility of opening political wounds that have not healed after 30 years.
不过，诺斯的参与可能引发一场极大的争议，带来有关他为何能够利用自己的丑闻获利的疑问，并可能揭开一些30年后仍未愈合的政治伤疤。
And perhaps no one is more aware of this than Mr. North himself.
也许最能意识到这一切的就是诺斯自己。
“Look, I’m a right-wing goon — everybody knows it, right?” he said through a broad smile during an interview at the production offices of “The Americans,” near the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn.
“注意，我是一个右翼的死忠分子——这人人都知道，对吧？”诺斯满脸笑容，在布鲁克林郭瓦纳斯运河附近的《美国谍梦》制作室接受采访时说。
When he participates in creative projects like this, Mr. North, 70, said that he expects that “there’s going to be some people who just don’t like Ollie North.”
现年70岁的诺斯说，在参加此类艺术创作的活动时，他知道“会有一些人不喜欢奥利弗·诺斯”。
Close observers of contemporary American history say they are irritated by what they see as Mr. North’s continued attempts to aggrandize and whitewash his role in it.
对当代美国历史做出了仔细观察的人说，在他们看来，诺斯是在不断试图夸大和粉饰他在事件中扮演的角色，这让他们感到愤怒。
Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, said Mr. North’s involvement in “The Americans” was “basically a bad joke.”
《新共和》(The New Republic)的文学编辑利昂·维泽尔蒂尔(Leon Wieseltier)说，诺斯参与《美国谍梦》的创作“基本上算是一个糟糕的笑话”。
“Everything that happens in history in this country eventually winds up as entertainment,” Mr. Wieseltier said.
维泽尔蒂尔说，“这个国家历史上所发生的一切最后都成了娱乐素材。”
By capitalizing on his scandal, Mr. North is playing out the latest incarnation of “a very American story” in which “you become notorious, and your notoriety makes you famous, and fame is the American version of glory,” Mr. Wieseltier said.
诺斯利用其丑闻谋利的做法已经成为“典型美国故事”的最新代表，“你臭名昭著，于是你就有了名气，而名气在美国被视作荣耀，”维泽尔蒂尔说。
“Given his insistence upon his purity of heart and soul,” Mr. Wieseltier added, “there’s something a little tacky about his exploiting it.”
“考虑到他总是强调自己内心和灵魂的一尘不染，他利用这件事来赚钱有点掉价。”
Mr. North said he was upfront with the show runners of “The Americans,” telling them: “Don’t hurt your ratings just to bring me in. And they said, ‘It will probably bring in people that haven’t watched before.’ ”
诺斯说，自己面对《美国谍梦》的主管时非常坦率，他告诉他们：“不要因为我的加入而破坏了你们收视率。而他们则说，‘你的参与可能会为剧集吸引更多新的观众。’”
Since “The Americans” started last year, its creator, Joe Weisberg, and his fellow show runner, Joel Fields, have frequently woven fictional developments around real-life events, like the failed assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
自从《美国谍梦》去年开播以来，剧创乔·韦斯伯格(Joe Weisberg)和同为负责人的乔尔·菲尔茨(Joel Fields)常常围绕真实事件构建剧中情节，比如参考了1981年的罗纳德·里根总统(Ronald Reagan)刺杀未遂事件。
When the opportunity arose to confer with Mr. North on the show’s second season, they said they embraced it, having known about him only as a figure from news reports and TV broadcasts.
二人表示，当有机会为了第二季而咨询诺斯的时候，他们欣然接受。之前，他们只是通过新闻报道和电视节目而对诺斯有所耳闻。
“We came with our preconceptions,” Mr. Fields said. “I speak for myself: It’s been very enlightening to get to know the man behind the image.”
“我们带着成见而来，”菲尔茨说。“就我本人而言：了解了名声之外的这个真实的人，让我大受启发。”
Mr. North, now a Fox News personality and the host of its “War Stories” program, was convicted in 1989 of crimes stemming from his involvement in Iran-contra, including destroying documents and abetting the obstruction of Congress. Those convictions were later suspended, and all charges were dismissed; Mr. North received limited immunity for testifying before Congress.
诺斯目前是Fox新闻台的著名人物，主持《战争故事》(War Stories)节目。1989年，他因涉及伊朗门相关罪行而被定罪，包括销毁文件与唆使他人妨碍国会调查。这些判决后来被取消，所有指控也被驳回；诺斯因在国会的作证而享有有限豁免权。
Still, he recognizes that many Americans continue to bear him ill will for his involvement in a program to sell arms secretly to Iran in violation of an embargo and divert the money to finance the Nicaraguan contras, who were fighting the Marxist Sandinista government there.
虽说如此，他意识到，许多美国民众仍对他怀有恶感，因为他卷入了伊朗门。这一项目不仅违反贸易禁令，秘密地向伊朗贩卖军火，还将收益挪用于资助尼加拉瓜的游击队来反抗该国的马克思主义桑地诺民族解放阵线政府。
Mr. North, who ran unsuccessfully in 1994 as the Republican nominee for a United States Senate seat in Virginia and continues to write best-selling military novels, said those closest to him hold no grudges.
1994年，诺斯以共和党候选人的身份角逐弗吉尼亚州的联邦参议员席位，但未能如愿。后来，他撰写了几本畅销军事小说。他表示，与自己关系最为亲密的那些人并未记仇。
“As my friends from that era remind me,” he said, “everybody thought what you were doing was the right thing.”
“就像来自那个年代的朋友提醒的那样，每个人都觉得，我做的事情是对的，”他说。