Dissatisfaction with President Obama’s conduct of foreign policy has shot up among both Republicans and Democrats in the past month, even though a slim majority supports his recent decision to send military advisers to Iraq to confront the growing threat from militants there, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
《纽约时报》/CBS新闻频道(CBS News)最新的民意测验显示，上个月，共和党和民主党对奥巴马总统外交政策的不满程度开始急剧增加，虽然他近期派军事顾问前往伊拉克，以应对当地日益严重的武装分子威胁的决定，得到了微弱多数的支持。
The survey suggests that most Americans back some of Mr. Obama’s approaches to the crisis in Iraq, including majority support for the possibility of drone strikes. But the poll documents an increasing lack of faith in the president and his leadership, and shows deep concern that further intervention by the United States in Iraq could lead to another long and costly involvement there.
调查表明，大多数美国人支持奥巴马应对伊拉克危机的部分策略，其中发动无人机打击得到了多数支持。但是，该测验也显示人们对奥巴马和他的领导力越来越没有信心，而且还非常担心对伊拉克局势的进一步干预将促使美国再次长期陷入当地冲突，并付出高昂代价。
The poll found that 58 percent of Americans disapprove of the way Mr. Obama is handling foreign policy, a jump of 10 points in the last month to the highest level since Mr. Obama took office in 2009. The spike in disapproval is especially striking among Democrats, nearly a third of whom said they did not approve of his handling of foreign policy.
民意调查发现，58%的美国人都对奥巴马处理外交政策的方式感到不满，这与上个月相比突增了10个百分点，达到奥巴马2009年执政以来的最高水平。反对率的激增在民主党中表现得尤为明显，将近三分之一的民主党人都说他们不赞同奥巴马对外交政策的处理方式。
Fifty-two percent of Americans say they disapprove of how the president is dealing with the current violence in Iraq (including about a third of Democrats); 37 percent approve.
52%的美国人称，他们不赞同奥巴马对伊拉克当前的冲突的处理方式（其中包括大约三分之一的民主党人）；37%的人表示赞同。
“I voted for him because he said, ‘Give me four more years and I will fix everything,’ but nothing is being fixed,” Michelle Roberts, 34, a Democrat from Salem, Mass., said in a follow-up interview. “I understand he wants to fight terrorism, but send in robots, drones. Don’t send in our troops. Our men and women are dying for what?”
“我之所以投票给他，是因为他曾经说，‘再给我四年时间，我会让一切回到正轨，’但他没有让任何事情回到正轨，”来自马萨诸塞州塞勒姆的34岁民主党人米歇尔·罗伯茨(Michelle Roberts)在随后的采访中说。“我知道他想打击恐怖主义，但是请派遣机器人和无人机。不要派遣我们的军队。我们的人民到底在为什么而牺牲？”
The erosion in support across both parties has contributed to a drop in Mr. Obama’s overall rating that threatens to undermine his administration’s political ambitions during the remaining two and a half years of his second term. The president’s approval rating is now at 40 percent, while 54 percent say they disapprove of the job he is doing in office, a six-point jump since May.
两党支持率的下跌导致奥巴马的整体支持率出现下跌，这种情况可能会在他第二任期剩下的两年半时间里对其政府的政治抱负造成损害。奥巴马目前的支持率是40%，而54%的人表示他们不满意奥巴马政府的工作，这与5月相比上升了6个百分点。
Despite the unhappiness about Mr. Obama’s leadership, 51 percent of those surveyed, including Republicans, Democrats and independents, said they supported his recent decision to send 300 military advisers to Iraq. Fifty-six percent said they supported the use of drones in Iraq, a military option that Mr. Obama’s advisers have said is still on the table as the militants, known as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, have extended gains across the northern parts of the country.
虽然对奥巴马的领导工作感到不满，但是51%的受访者——其中包括共和党、民主党和无党派人士——都说他们支持奥巴马近期派300名军事顾问前往伊拉克的决定。56%的人都说他们支持对伊拉克使用无人机，奥巴马的顾问表示他们仍在考虑是否要采取这个军事行动。此时，名为伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子正在伊拉克北部扩大他们的势力范围。
A little over half of Americans also favor the idea of working with Iran in a limited capacity to try to resolve the situation in Iraq. Iran’s Shiite leaders support the Shiite-led government in Baghdad, but Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has publicly opposed efforts by the United States to help Iraq’s government fight back against Islamic extremists and Sunni militants.
略超过一半的美国人还支持与伊朗展开有限的合作，从而解决伊拉克危机。伊朗的什叶派领导人支持什叶派领导的巴格达政府，但是伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)却公开反对美国帮伊拉克政府反击伊斯兰派极端主义者和逊尼派武装人员。
The national poll was conducted June 20 to 22 by landline and cellphone among 1,009 adults with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
此次全国调查于6月20日到22日通过固定电话和手机展开，受访者是1009名成年人，抽样误差大概为正负3个百分点。
Although the survey suggests that Mr. Obama’s small steps toward military action in Iraq are in line with those of many Americans, it also indicates that people may still yearn for their commander in chief to manage foreign crises, even when the solutions are not obvious to them. A large majority thinks that the United States has important interests in Iraq’s future. Two-thirds said Mr. Obama had not done enough to explain American goals in the country.
虽然调查显示，很多美国人支持奥巴马在对伊拉克采取军事行动方面采取的谨慎态度，调查还说明，人们或许仍然希望他们的统帅处理外交危机，即便他们也看不到该如何解决。大多数人认为，伊拉克的未来对美国利益具有重要意义。三分之二的人表示，奥巴马没有尽力阐明美国在伊拉克的目标。
Mr. Obama built his 2008 presidential campaign in part on opposing George W. Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in March 2003, and the departure of all troops in 2011 for a time appeared to close a searing chapter in American life. The latest questions about a new United States involvement there threatens to reopen old wounds.
反对乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)2003年3月入侵伊拉克，以及2011年全部撤军的决定，在一定程度上是奥巴马2008年竞选的基石，撤军的决定似乎一度终结了美国人生活中一个令人心烦的篇章。最近有关美国再次介入伊拉克的问题可能会揭起这个伤疤。
“We didn’t finish up the job in Vietnam, and we didn’t finish up the first time in Iraq or the second time in Iraq,” said Phil Clark, 62, a Democrat and retired nurse from Santee, Calif. “I have a lot of animosity toward Bush because of those actions. I just see it all happening again.”
“我们没有结束在越南的工作，我们没有完成第一次在伊拉克的工作，第二次也没有，”62岁的民主党人菲尔·克拉克(Phil Clark)说。“此类行动使我非常憎恨布什。我现在看到一切又要重来一遍。”来自加利福尼亚州桑堤市的克拉克是一名退休护士。
Also, three quarters of those surveyed said the war was not worth the American lives lost and other costs of attacking Iraq, a record level of regret about a conflict that lasted nearly nine years.
四分之三的调查对象表示，这场战争不值得美国人付出生命和其他代价，人们对这场持续了将近九年的冲突所抱有的懊悔情绪空前强烈。
Mr. Obama’s declaration in recent weeks that he will not send ground troops back into Iraq mirrors the views of a wide majority of Americans. But after a decade of war, a substantial number — 42 percent — said the United States still had a responsibility to do something about the violence in Iraq.
最近几周，奥巴马宣称他不会向伊拉克再次派遣部队，这与绝大多数美国人的观点一致。但在经过十年的战争后，仍有相当一部分人——42%——表示，对于伊拉克的动荡局势，美国仍有责任做些什么。
And yet, the poll showed that the country is divided about how to meet it. Republicans tend to favor more aggressive action: Fifty-four percent of Republicans support using manned aircraft to carry out targeted attacks in Iraq, while only 38 percent of Democrats favor such action. Nearly 70 percent of Republicans said they would support the use of drones in Iraq, compared to 55 percent for Democrats.
但民调显示，美国人在如何履行责任上存在分歧。共和党人倾向于采取更为强硬的举措：54%的共和党人支持利用载人飞机在伊拉克开展有针对性的攻击。只有38%的民主党人支持此类行动。大约70%的共和党人表示，他们支持在伊拉克使用无人机，而民主党人的支持率为55%。
Similarly, Republicans largely said Mr. Obama should be doing more to address the situation in Iraq, while most Democrats said he was doing the right amount. Well over half said the situation in Iraq was beyond the control of the United States.
同样，很多共和党人表示，奥巴马应该采取更多举措应对伊拉克局势，而大多数民主党人则表示，伊拉克局势超出了美国的控制范围。
The violence in Iraq has renewed the debate about whether the United States should have kept some troops in Iraq after all American military forces withdrew at the end of 2011. In the survey, 50 percent said the United States should have removed all of its forces and 42 percent said it should have left some there. There were large partisan divisions, with a wide majority of Republicans saying some troops should have been left and about as many Democrats disagreeing.
伊拉克的动荡再次引发了一个争论，即在2011年底完成从伊拉克撤军后，美国是否应该保留一些兵力。调查显示，50%的人表示，美国应该全部撤军，42%的人认为美国应该保留一些兵力。党派分歧非常大，绝大多数共和党人表示，应该留下一些士兵，而绝大多数民主党人并不同意这一观点。
Americans are also split over whether the threat of terrorism against the United States will increase as a result of the violence in Iraq. Half said it would stay the same while 44 percent said it would increase.
伊拉克的动荡是否会越来越多地转化为针对美国的恐怖主义威胁，对于这个问题，美国人也存在分歧。50%的人认为，不会有变化，而44%的人表示，威胁会加剧。