RAQQA, Syria — When his factory was bombed in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo, the businessman considered two bleak options: remain at home and risk dying in the next airstrike, or flee like hundreds of thousands of others to a refugee camp in Turkey.
叙利亚拉卡——叙利亚北部城市阿勒颇的一名商人，在自己的工厂被炸毁之后，对两个前景凄凉的选择进行了权衡：一是留在家中，可能会在以后的空袭中丧命，二是和数以万计的其他人一样，逃往土耳其的一个难民营。
Instead, he took his remaining cash east and moved to a neighboring city, Raqqa, the de facto capital of the world’s fastest growing jihadist force. There he found a degree of order and security absent in other parts of Syria.
结果，他带着剩下的钱财，搬到了阿勒颇以东不远的城市拉卡，世界上发展最迅猛的圣战组织实质上的首府。他发现那里存在某种程度的秩序和安全，是叙利亚其他地区所没有的。
“The fighting in Syria will continue, so we have to live our lives,” said the businessman, who gave only a first name, Qadri, as he oversaw a dozen workers in his new children’s clothing factory in Raqqa.
“在叙利亚，战斗还将继续，而我们必须活下去，”这名商人一边看着十几个工人在他新开的拉卡童装厂里工作，一边说。他只透露自己的名字叫卡德里(Qadri)。
Long before extremists rolled through Iraq and seized a large piece of territory, the group known as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, took over most of Raqqa Province, home to about a million people, and established a headquarters in its capital. Through strategic management and brute force, the group, which now calls itself simply the Islamic State, has begun imposing its vision of a state that blends its fundamentalist interpretation of Islam with the practicalities of governance.
这里的极端组织名为伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），在他们进军伊拉克，并攻下了那里一大片领土的很久之前，ISIS就在人口约100万的拉卡省占据了大部分地区，并在其首府设立了总部。通过战略管理和诉诸蛮力，这个自称为伊斯兰国家的组织已经开始贯彻其建国治国的愿景，该愿景是伊斯兰教原教旨主义和治国实务的一个融合。
In time, it has won the surprising respect of some war-weary citizens, like Qadri, who will accept any authority that can restore a semblance of normal life. Rebel-held areas of Aleppo, by comparison, remain racked with food shortages and crime. But there is a darker side to Islamic rule, with public executions and strict social codes that have left many in this once-tolerant community deeply worried about the future.
令人惊讶的是，随着时间推移，它已经赢得了一些厌战民众的敬意。卡德里就是一个例子，只要一个组织能够恢复正常生活的表象，他就可以接受其权威。相比之下，叛军控制的阿勒颇地区却仍然粮食短缺，犯罪猖獗。但是，伊斯兰统治也有更加阴暗的一面，比如公开处决犯人，社会规范严苛，这些已经让很多拉卡人对未来感到忧心忡忡，以前这里是一个宽容度较高的地方。
In the city of Raqqa, traffic police officers keep intersections clear, crime is rare, and tax collectors issue receipts. But statues like the landmark lions in Al Rasheed Park have been destroyed because they were considered blasphemous. Public spaces like Al Amasy Square, where young men and women once hung out and flirted in the evenings, have been walled off with heavy metal fences topped with the black flags of ISIS. People accused of stealing have lost their hands in public amputations.
在拉卡城内，交警保持着交叉路口的畅通，犯罪现象十分罕见，收税人员会开收据。但是，一些被认为亵渎神灵的东西遭到了破坏，比如拉希德公园(Al Rasheed Park)标志性的狮子塑像。一些公共场所，比如青年男女在晚间出游谈情的阿玛西广场(Amasy Square)，已经用沉重的金属围栏隔开，插上了ISIS的黑色旗帜。实施偷盗行为的人，则被砍手示众。
“What I see in Raqqa proves that the Islamic State has a clear vision to establish a state in the real meaning of the word,” said a retired teacher in the city of Raqqa. “It is not a joke.”
“我在拉卡看到的情况显示，ISIS拥有清晰的愿景，即建立一个名副其实的伊斯兰式国家，”拉卡城的一名退休教师说。“这可不是在开玩笑。”
How ISIS rules in Raqqa offers insight into what it is trying to do as it moves to consolidate its grip in territories spanning the Syrian-Iraqi border. An employee of The New York Times recently spent six days in Raqqa and interviewed a dozen residents. The employee and those interviewed are not being identified to protect them from retaliation by the extremists who have hunted down and killed those perceived as opposing their project.
当ISIS巩固其在叙利亚和伊拉克边境占据的领土上的控制权时，你可以从它统治拉卡的方式中，了解它意欲何为。《纽约时报》的一名员工最近在拉卡待了六天，并采访了那里的十几名居民。本文不会提及该员工和受访者的姓名，以保护他们免遭报复，因为极端分子追杀过一些他们认为反对自己计划的人。
Raqqa is a test case for ISIS, which imposed itself as the ultimate authority in this city on the Euphrates River early this year. The group has already proved its military prowess, routing other militias in Syria as well as the Iraqi military. But it is here in this agricultural hub that it has had the most time to turn its ideology into reality, a project that appears unlikely to end soon given the lack of a military force able to displace it.
对于ISIS来说，位于幼发拉底河流域的拉卡是一个试点城市，今年年初，ISIS确立了自己在该市的终极权威地位。在击溃叙利亚其他民兵组织及伊拉克军队的战斗中，ISIS已经证明了它的军事实力。但是在位于农业枢纽地区的拉卡，它才拥有了大量时间，来把自己的意识形态变成现实。因为这里没有可以取代ISIS的其他军事力量，这个项目可能不会很快终止。
An aid worker who travels to Raqqa said the ranks of ISIS were filled with volatile young men, many of them foreigners more interested in violence than governance. To keep things running, it has paid or threatened skilled workers to remain in their posts while putting loyalist supervisors over them to ensure compliance with Islamic rules.
一个从其他地方来到拉卡的援助人员说，ISIS的队伍中充斥着情绪无常的年轻人，其中很多都是对暴力比对治理国家更感兴趣的外国人。为了让城市运转起来，ISIS通过威逼利诱，让技术人员留在自己的岗位上，并派出忠于ISIS的管理者来监督他们，以确保事情符合伊斯兰教规。
“They can’t fire all the staff and bring new people to run a hospital, so they change the manager to someone who will enforce their rules and regulations,” the aid worker said, speaking on the condition of anonymity so as not to endanger his work.
“他们不能解雇所有员工，把医院的全部岗位都换成新人，所以他们就换上了那些会执行他们的规则和条例的管理者”，这名援助人员说，他不愿透露姓名，以免危害到自己的工作。
Raqqa’s three churches, once home to an active Christian minority, have all been shuttered. After capturing the largest, the Armenian Catholic Martyrs Church, ISIS removed its crosses, hung black flags from its facade and converted it into an Islamic center that screens videos of battles and suicide operations to recruit new fighters.
拉卡有三座教堂，曾经是活跃的基督教少数派的聚集场所，现在已经全部关闭了。ISIS占领了最大的亚美尼亚天主教殉教者教堂(Armenian Catholic Martyrs Church)后，摘下了十字架，挂上了黑旗，将它改成了一个伊斯兰教场所，用来播放战斗和自杀行动的视频，以招募新战士。
The few Christians who remain pay a minority tax of a few dollars per month. When ISIS’s religious police officers patrol to make sure shops close during Muslim prayers, the Christians must obey, too.
剩下的寥寥几名基督徒每个月要交几美元的少数派团体税。在穆斯林祈祷的时候，虔诚的ISIS警官会四处巡逻，确保所有商铺关门，基督徒也必须遵守。
More pragmatically, ISIS has managed to keep food in markets, and bakeries and gas stations functioning. But it has had more trouble with drinking water and electricity, which is out for as much as 20 hours a day.
比较务实的是，ISIS做到了在市场里有食物，面包店和加油站也都在正常运转。但在饮用水和电力方面遇到了较大问题，一天里有长达20个小时是不予供应的。
Perhaps realizing that the young extremists most attracted to its sectarian violence lack professional skills, the leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, asked in a recent audio address for doctors and engineers to travel to places like Raqqa to help build his newly declared Islamic State. “Their migration is an obligation so that they can answer the dire need of the Muslims,” Mr. Baghdadi said.
大概是意识到手下这些年轻的极端分子主要是冲着教派暴力冲突而来，没有什么职业技能，ISIS领导人阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)在最近发布的一段讲话录音中召唤医生和工程师前往拉卡这样的地方，协助建设他新成立的伊斯兰国。“他们的迁居是一种义务，这样才可以响应穆斯林的急切召唤，”巴格达迪说。