IRBIL, Iraq — The Sunni militant extremists who have seized a broad area of Iraq extended their control on Monday to the country’s entire western frontier, having secured nearly all official border crossings with Syria and the only one with Jordan, giving them the semblance of the new independent state that they say they intend to create in the region.
伊拉克埃尔比勒——周一，已经占领伊拉克大片地区的逊尼派极端武装分子将控制范围扩展至整个西部边界，他们夺取了伊拉克与叙利亚之间的几乎所有官方边境关卡，以及伊拉克与约旦的唯一关卡，使他们表面上在该地区建成了他们想要的新独立国家。
With the seizure of the Jordan crossing, which militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria first assaulted late Sunday night, the Iraqi military defenses crumpled, as they have in other battlegrounds in the western and northern parts of the country over the past two weeks. ISIS control of the Jordan border raised the risks that its insurgency could menace not just Syria and Iraq, but Jordan and Saudi Arabia, two important American allies.
伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子上周日晚间对约旦边境关卡发动了首次攻击，随着他们控制关卡，伊拉克军队的防御不堪一击，过去两周，他们在伊拉克西部及北部的战场纷纷溃败。ISIS控制约旦边境的举动加剧了风险——叛乱分子威胁的可能不仅是叙利亚和伊拉克，还有美国的两个重要盟友约旦和沙特阿拉伯。
The border seizure came as Secretary of State John Kerry made an emergency visit to Baghdad for consultations with Iraqi leaders on the need to bridge the country’s deepening sectarian splits and form a new unity government that can halt the ISIS insurgency. That is an enormous challenge, given the polarizing effects of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite whose autocratic tendencies have increasingly been a worry for American officials.
在ISIS控制边境之际，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)紧急访问巴格达，与伊拉克领导人进行磋商，讨论缓解该国不断加剧的宗派分裂及成立能够阻止ISIS叛乱分子的新联合政府的必要性。鉴于伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)造成的分化后果，这是一个巨大挑战，这名什叶派领导人的独裁倾向让美国官员越来越担心。
Mr. Kerry said Mr. Maliki, whose Shiite bloc won the most seats in parliamentary elections but not enough to form a new government, would work with the Sunnis and Kurds to expedite that process, although it remained unclear how long it might take and whether Mr. Maliki would remain the prime minister. But Mr. Kerry also said the Americans might not wait for an outcome before taking military action because the ISIS militants were posing an increasing danger for American interests in the Middle East region.
马利基阵营在议会选举中赢得了大部分席位，但还不足以成立新政府，克里表示，马利基会与逊尼派教徒及库尔德人联手加快成立新政府，尽管目前尚不清楚这个过程可能需要多长时间，马利基是否会留任总理。但克里还表示，美国人可能会在结果出来之前采取军事行动，因为ISIS武装分子对美国在中东地区的利益构成了日益严重的威胁。
“They do pose a threat,” Mr. Kerry said. “They cannot be given safe haven anywhere.”
“他们确实构成了威胁，”克里说，“不能让他们在任何地方获得避风港。”
Even as Mr. Kerry was conferring with Iraqi political leaders, sectarian reprisal violence appeared to be worsening, with at least three instances of mass killings. Shiite policemen were believed to have killed at least 69 Sunni insurgent prisoners on a highway, insurgents bombed the funerals of 15 Shiite civilians they had killed, and a Sunni family of six, including three children, was found shot to death in a Sunni neighborhood of Baghdad.
就在克里与伊拉克政治领导人进行商讨的时候，宗派报复性暴力活动似乎在进一步加剧，至少发生了三起屠杀事件。据称，什叶派警察在一条高速公路上杀害了至少69名处在关押中的逊尼派叛乱分子，叛乱分子向他们杀害的15名什叶派平民的葬礼现场投掷炸弹，人们发现一个逊尼派的六口之家在巴格达的一个逊尼派居住区遭到枪杀，其中包括三名儿童。
The ISIS advance on the border posts highlights the quick and strategic gains the militants have made against the Iraqi government’s security forces, which have shown little resistance and little willingness to retake them by force. But the advance also starkly symbolized the broader aim espoused by ISIS of erasing the border drawn by the colonial powers after World War I and establishing an Islamic state that stretches from the Mediterranean through the deserts of Iraq.
ISIS占领边境哨所的行动，突显出武装分子在和伊拉克政府安全部队作战时取得了迅速而极具战略意义的胜利，安全部队几乎没有抵抗，也没有展现出通过武力夺回哨所的意愿。但ISIS的推进还突显了该组织更大的目标——清除一战后由殖民国家划定的边界线，建立一个从地中海一直延伸到伊拉克沙漠的伊斯兰国家。
“Taking the border crossing with Jordan would mean to me that ISIS is messaging to Jordan and Saudi Arabia that it is a state now,” said Jessica D. Lewis, research director at the Institute for the Study of War, who has scrutinized the militant group’s advances in Iraq and Syria.
“在我看来，控制伊拉克与约旦之间的边境关卡就意味着，ISIS正在向约旦和沙特阿拉伯传达这样一条信息：它现在已经成了一个国家，”战争研究中心(Institute for the Study of War)的研究负责人杰西卡·D·刘易斯(Jessica D. Lewis)说。她对武装组织在伊拉克和叙利亚的进展进行了仔细研究。
“I do not think that ISIS is necessarily going to move into Jordan or Saudi Arabia imminently,” she said, “but they are willing to force Jordan and Saudi Arabia to plan forward and treat ISIS as a state actor with military means.”
“我不认为ISIS将立即进入约旦或沙特阿拉伯，”她说，“但是他们希望能迫使约旦和沙特提前做好准备，并把ISIS视作一个拥有军事力量的国家。”
In recent days, the militants also seized two Iraqi posts on the Syrian border. There were unconfirmed reports late Monday that militants occupying one of the posts, Waleed, had scattered from Syrian government airstrikes. But the other post, in Qaim, was under complete ISIS control and opened up an important supply line for the militants between the battlefields in both countries.
近日，武装分子还占领了叙利亚边境的两个伊拉克哨所。周一晚些时候有未经确认的报道表明，占领艾瓦利德哨所的武装人员在叙利亚政府的空中打击之下已经四散逃开。但是位于加伊姆的另一处哨所仍然完全处于ISIS的控制之下，并且为两国战场之间的武装人员提供了一条重要的后勤补给线。
In the north, Iraqi Kurds, who have taken steps during the crisis to secure their own borders and perhaps advance their aspirations of independence, have secured another outpost, leaving the Iraqi government with no control of any crossing into Syria or Jordan. On the frontier between Syria and Turkey, ISIS controls at least two border crossings.
在伊拉克北部，伊拉克库尔德人在危机期间也在采取措施保卫自己的边境，或许还增强他们对独立的渴望。他们控制了另一座哨所，从而使伊拉克政府失去了通往叙利亚或约旦的一切关卡。在叙利亚与土耳其边境，ISIS至少控制了两个边境关卡。
As the Iraqi state, especially the military, seems to be weakening by the day, ISIS has been building the trappings of a new state, seizing assets like armored vehicles, weapons and money, fighting for control of Baiji, Iraq’s largest oil refinery, and now securing border outposts.
随着伊拉克政府日渐被削弱，尤其是军事力量，ISIS已经在营造一个新国家的形象，他们控制了装甲车、武器和资金等资产，而且正试图控制伊拉克最大的炼油厂拜伊吉(Baiji)，现在还在巩固他们对边境哨所的控制。
As the group has taken territory in the north, capturing control of Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city, one of the battle lines has been set at Samarra, home to an important Shiite shrine. American officials say ISIS has its sights set on destroying the shrine, which would likely lead to an explosion of sectarian violence, just as an attack there did in early 2006.
由于该组织占领了一些北部地区，控制了伊拉克第二大城市摩苏尔，所以其中一条战线就被设在了萨马拉——什叶派的一座重要圣祠就位于此处。美国官员称，ISIS想摧毁这座圣祠，而这可能会引发激烈的宗派暴力冲突。2006年初那里受到袭击时就发生了这种情况。
“Clearly, everyone understands that Samarra is an important line,” Mr. Kerry said at a news conference in Baghdad.
克里在巴格达的一次新闻发布会上说，“很明显，每个人都知道萨马拉是一条重要的战线。”
So great are the concerns that Mr. Kerry stressed on Monday that if American action is taken soon — President Obama has said that he is considering airstrikes — it should not be interpreted as a gesture of political support for Mr. Maliki, whom many American officials say privately they would like to see replaced because they believe he is incapable of leading a unity government.
这种局面非常让人担心，以至于克里要在周一强调，倘若美国立即采取行动——奥巴马总统曾表示他在考虑实施空中打击，这样的举动不应被视作对马利基的政治支持。许多美国官员都暗中表示他们希望马利基下台，因为他们不认为马利基有能力领导一个统一的政府。