BAGHDAD — When an Iraqi court sentenced a prominent Sunni politician to death recently, it seemed like an unmitigated disaster for the country’s new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi.
巴格达——近期，伊拉克一所法院判处一名著名的逊尼派政界人士死刑。对于该国的新总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)而言，这全然是一场灾难。
Mr. Abadi, after all, had taken office with an international mandate to create a more inclusive government, and win the trust of Iraq’s disaffected Sunnis so they would fight Islamic State militants rather than support them. But the verdict, on capital murder charges brought by the previous government against the politician, Ahmed al-Alwani, prompted the defendant’s Alwani tribe to threaten that it would stop battling the Islamic State.
毕竟，阿巴迪就职时，国际敦促他建立一个更加包容的政府，赢得心怀不满的逊尼派的信任，争取他们对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子，而不是支持他们。然而，由于上届政府指控政界人士艾哈迈德·阿尔瓦尼(Ahmed al-Alwani)犯有谋杀罪，而法院这次对他做出了死刑判决，惹得阿尔瓦尼所在的部族威胁不再抗击伊斯兰国。
Mr. Abadi swung into action. He immediately contacted Sunni officials and Alwani tribe members, assuring them that there would be no execution. And he urged them to solve the matter by the tribal tradition of paying “blood money” to the families of the victims, two soldiers who were killed in a gun battle when commandos came to arrest Mr. Alwani last year.
阿巴迪旋即采取了行动。他马上联系了逊尼派官员和阿尔瓦尼所在部族的成员，向他们保证，死刑不会执行。他敦促他们按照部族传统，向受害者的家庭支付“赎罪金”来解决这个问题。受害者是两名士兵，在突击队去年抓捕阿尔瓦尼的时候丧生于枪战之中。
His handling of the crisis in November was the most tangible sign yet that Mr. Abadi was successfully shifting the tone of politics here, and that courting Sunnis could help the government battle the Islamic State more effectively. Reassured by Mr. Abadi’s outreach, the Alwani tribe stayed in the fight on the government’s side.
阿巴迪在11月时对这场危机的处理，是迄今为止最明显的迹象，显示他正在成功地扭转伊拉克政坛的风气，以及拉拢逊尼派可以更有效地帮助政府对抗伊斯兰国。阿巴迪的行动让阿尔瓦尼的部族安下心来，在战斗中留在了政府一边。
In nearly every way, Mr. Abadi has so far been a different leader than his predecessor, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, despite their common Shiite political bloc. And though the obstacles facing his government are vast, and he faces political challenges within his own party, his early performance has encouraged a wide array of Iraqi and Western officials.
迄今为止，在几乎每个方面，阿巴迪都与前任努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)大不相同，尽管他们同属什叶派政治阵营。虽然阿巴迪政府面前障碍重重，而且他还面临着党内的政治挑战，但他在上任初期的表现令伊拉克和西方国家的官员普遍感到很受鼓舞。
In his first months in office, Mr. Abadi has already appeared three times before Parliament, something Mr. Maliki did only twice in eight years.
上任没几个月，阿巴迪已经在议会出现了三次，而马利基执政八年中只露面了两次。
Mr. Abadi has fired incompetent and corrupt military commanders appointed by Mr. Maliki and rooted out 50,000 so-called ghost soldiers, no-show troops for whom commanders nevertheless collect salaries.
马利基任命的那些腐败无能的军事指挥官，遭到了阿巴迪的解职。他还清除了5万“空饷兵”——这些人不在部队中，指挥官却还在为他们领取薪水。
In his signature success so far, Mr. Abadi reached a deal to share oil revenue with the Kurds in northern Iraq, an issue that Mr. Maliki had pushed nearly to the point of Kurdish secession.
到目前为止，阿巴迪最有代表性的成果，就是与伊拉克北部的库尔德人达成了一项分享石油收入的协议。当初，马利基曾经让问题恶化到了库尔德人要分裂出去的地步。
“He is doing all the things we feared he wouldn’t be doing,” said Gyorgy Busztin, the deputy special representative for the United Nations in Iraq. “I respect him more and more each day.”
“我们原本担心他不会做的各种事情，他都在做，”联合国驻伊拉克特别副代理哲尔吉·布斯廷(Gyorgy Busztin)说。“我对他的尊重与日俱增。”
While many officials credit Mr. Abadi’s conciliatory style for much of the improved political atmosphere, they say the changes also point to a larger shift: a new sense of urgency among Iraq’s leaders that finally — after years of crises — the country could break apart in the face of the threat from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. The Sunni extremist group’s march across a vast swath of Iraq has been aided by the sectarian hostility that Mr. Maliki’s rule inflamed.
很多官员称赞，政治氛围的改善，有很大一部分要归功于阿巴迪致力于和解的举措。他们也认为，这些变化可能会引领一个更大的转变：经过多年的危机之后，伊拉克领导人终于有了一种新的紧迫感——伊斯兰国的威胁可能让该国变得四分五裂。伊斯兰国也简称为ISIS或ISIL，是个逊尼派极端组织。得益于马利基统治期间加剧的宗派敌意，它占领了伊拉克大片国土。
“Almost everyone recognizes that this is the last chance for this country to survive as Iraq as we know it,” said Ayad Allawi, an Iraqi vice president who was appointed by Mr. Abadi to oversee reconciliation programs.
“几乎所有人都承认，这是我们熟悉的伊拉克生死存亡的最后机会，”伊拉克副总统阿亚德·阿拉维(Ayad Allawi)说。阿巴迪任命他负责和解方案的监督工作。
He added, of Mr. Abadi, “everyone is giving him a chance.”
他补充说，“大家都愿意让阿巴迪试一试。”
Still, the obstacles facing Mr. Abadi’s government remain vast.
尽管如此，阿巴迪政府面临的障碍仍然非常巨大。
Kirk Sowell, a Jordan-based political risk analyst and publisher of the newsletter Inside Iraqi Politics, said that even though Mr. Abadi had succeeded in doing away with sectarian intimidation, “at the same time, it’s important to say how weak he is.”
居住在约旦的政治风险分析师柯克·索维尔(Kirk Sowell)是通讯简报《伊拉克政治内情》(Inside Iraqi Politics)的发行人。他表示，尽管阿巴迪在成功地消解宗派威胁，“与此同时，他的薄弱环节也不可忽视”。
A third of the country is beyond Mr. Abadi’s control and in the hands of militants. As commander in chief, he does not even control all of the country’s security forces. While attempts have been made to bring Shiite militias under government control, the reality is that many operate with impunity and continue to commit abuses against Sunnis, human rights activists say.
伊拉克三分之一的国土目前落入武装分子手中，不在阿巴迪的控制之下。作为三军统帅，他甚至无法调动该国的所有安全部队。虽然政府已经在尝试控制什叶派民兵，但人权活动人士表示，现实情况是，很多民兵无法无天，仍在践踏逊尼派人士。
Ominously, Mr. Abadi also faces constraints from hard-line factions within his own Shiite constituency.
问题是，阿巴迪还面临着自己什叶派选民中强硬派的约束。
Osama Nujaifi, the Sunni vice president, said that even though Sunni officials were optimistic about Mr. Abadi’s intentions, they remained worried about the “old guard,” a reference to Mr. Maliki and his cronies, who many believe are working behind the scenes to undermine Mr. Abadi.
来自逊尼派的副总统乌萨马·努杰菲(Osama Nujaifi)表示，尽管逊尼派官员对阿巴迪的意图持乐观态度，但他们仍然担心那些“元老”，即马利基和他的亲信。很多人认为，正是这些人在暗中破坏阿巴迪的行动。
“Maliki is absolutely convinced that he will be back sometime in 2015,” said one Western official, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid angering Iraqi officials.
“马利基完全相信，他会在2015年的某个时候卷土重来，”一位西方官员说。为了避免激怒伊拉克官员，此人不愿具名。
In the Alwani case, Mr. Abadi’s advisers, as well as diplomats and other Iraqi officials, saw something sinister at work: the hand of Mr. Maliki, who many believe still exerts influence within Iraq’s judiciary. Mr. Abadi’s advisers privately say they were shocked at the verdict, especially because Mr. Abadi himself, according to Mr. Nujaifi, had privately asked Iraq’s top judge to delay a decision.
对于阿尔瓦尼一案，阿巴迪的幕僚以及伊拉克外交等领域的一些官员认为，有幕后黑手在起作用：那就是马利基。很多人认为，马利基仍然在对伊拉克的司法系统施加影响。阿巴迪的幕僚私下透露，他们对这个判决感到震惊，特别是考虑到，据努杰菲称，阿巴迪本人曾私下请求伊拉克最高法官推迟做出裁决。
“Maliki’s control over the justice system was on full display” in the Alwani death sentence, wrote Renad Mansour, an Iraq scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
阿尔瓦尼的死刑判决“充分展示了马利基对司法系统的控制力”，雷纳德·曼苏尔(Renad Mansour)说。他是卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的一名伊拉克学者。
For their part, Mr. Maliki’s supporters deny that the former prime minister is working against Mr. Abadi, though they have begun publicly criticizing the new prime minister’s policies.
另一方面，马利基的支持者则否认前总理在破坏阿巴迪的努力，虽然他们已经在对新总理的政策进行公开批评。
In taking on corruption within the military and removing officers who were loyal to Mr. Maliki, Mr. Abadi is making plenty of enemies, and fears for his safety have been raised in conversations within the Green Zone. This is Iraq, after all, where the usual exit from power is the coffin.
打击军内的腐败行为，解除忠于马利基的人员的职务，已经让阿巴迪大量树敌，巴格达“绿区”内的国际人士表达了对他人身安全的担忧。毕竟这是伊拉克，权力的终点往往就是棺材。