TEHRAN, Iran — The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps of Iran conducted a second successive day of missile tests Wednesday, firing two rockets that it said hit targets more than 850 miles away.
伊朗德黑兰——周三，伊朗伊斯兰革命卫队连续第二天进行导弹试射，射出两枚导弹，击中了超过850英里（约合1370公里）之外的目标。
The missiles were launched from the eastern part of the Alborz mountain range that hugs the Caspian Sea in northern Iran, the semiofficial news agency Tasnim reported.
半官方通讯社Tasnim报道称，导弹是从位于伊朗北部环绕里海的厄尔布尔士山脉东部射出的。
While Iran has riled conservative critics of last summer's nuclear deal with a succession of missile tests, it is not clear whether the latest activity violates any proscriptions.
尽管伊朗一系列导弹试射的举动，惹恼了去年夏天核协议的保守派批评者，但并不清楚最新的举动是不是违反了任何禁令。
Before the signing of the accord with the United States and international powers, Iran was barred under U.N. Security Council Resolution 1929 from any work on ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. That resolution was revoked with the nuclear deal and replaced by Security Council Resolution 2231, which “calls upon” Iran to abstain from such activity.
在与美国和其他世界大国签署协议之前，伊朗受到联合国安理会1929号决议的约束，不得研发任何可以携带核弹头的弹道导弹。在核协议签署后，该项决议已被撤销并由安理会2231号决议取而代之，后者“呼吁”伊朗克制此类活动。
Tehran says that it has a right to pursue defensive weapons systems and that, since it has given up any semblance of a nuclear program, it cannot in any event be working on a nuclear capability.
德黑兰方面表示，伊朗有权研发防御性武器系统，而且该国已经放弃了任何类似核计划的活动，无论何种情况下都无法研发核能力。
“We have huge reserves of various range ballistic missiles that are ready to target enemies and their aims, at any time, from different points of the country,” Brig. Gen. Hossein Salami, the deputy commander of the Revolutionary Guards, told reporters on the sidelines of the missile-firing drills in Kavir, Qum province, the semiofficial Fars news agency reported.
半官方的法尔斯通讯社报道称，在导弹试射演练的间隙，革命卫队副司令侯赛因·萨拉米准将(Brig. Gen. Hossein Salami)在库姆省卡维尔表示，“我们拥有射程各异的大量远程弹道导弹，随时准备从全国不同地点瞄准敌人和目标。”
The Obama administration concluded that an earlier round of missile tests in the fall violated the new resolution and prepared a list of sanctions against individuals and businesses involved in the launchings. It then infuriated congressional Republicans by delaying its application until after the nuclear deal went into effect.
奥巴马政府认定，去年秋天举行的上一轮导弹试射违反了新的决议，而且对参与发射的个人和企业准备了一系列制裁措施。但奥巴马政府直到核协议生效后才开始实施制裁，这让国会的共和党人怒不可遏。
The administration has not yet said whether it believes these tests violate the resolution. A State Department official said the matter would be raised at the Security Council, and congressional Republicans promised to introduce new sanctions against Iran.
奥巴马政府尚未表示，是否认为这些试射行动违反了决议。国务院一位官员表示，将会在安理会提及此议题，国会共和党人则承诺会针对伊朗推出新的制裁。
Iranian commanders seemed to go out of their way to antagonize Western governments, as well as to impress upon regional rivals like Saudi Arabia the extent of their arsenal.
伊朗军方似乎是在刻意地激怒西方国家的政府，并试图凭借本国强盛的武力，来让沙特阿拉伯等地区竞争对手刮目相看。