NAIROBI, Kenya — Masked gunmen stormed into a fancy, crowded mall in Nairobi on Saturday and shot dead at least 39 people and wounded more than 150 in one of the most chilling terrorist attacks in East Africa since Al Qaeda blew up two American embassies in 1998.
肯尼亚内罗毕——周六，一群蒙面持枪者袭击了内罗毕一家顾客云集的高档商场，至少造成39人死亡，150多人受伤。这是自1998年基地组织(Al Qaeda)炸毁两个美国大使馆以来，东非地区最严重的恐怖袭击之一。
Parents hurled their bodies over their children, people jumped into ventilation shafts to save themselves, and shoppers huddled behind the plastic mannequins of designer clothing stores as two squads of gunmen believed to be linked to a Somali terrorist group moved through the mall, shooting shoppers in the head. Hours later, the mall’s gleaming floors were smeared with blood as police officers dashed through the corpse-strewn corridors, trying to find the assailants.
家长用身体护住孩子，人们为了自救纷纷跳进通风井；当两队据信与索马里恐怖组织有关联的持枪者在商场里穿行，朝购物者的头部开火时，人们在时装店的塑料模特后挤作一团。几小时后，商场光亮的地板沾满了血污，警察快速穿过尸体遍布的走廊，希望能找到行凶者。
The mall, called Westgate, is a symbol of Kenya’s rising prosperity, an impressive five-story building where Kenyans can buy expensive cups of frozen yogurt and plates of sushi. On Saturdays, it is especially crowded, with loose, sometimes lackadaisical security, and American officials have long warned that Nairobi’s malls were ripe targets for Islamist terrorists, especially Westgate, because a cafe on the ground floor, right off the street, is owned by Israelis.
发生枪击案的韦斯特盖特(Westgate)购物中心是肯尼亚经济繁荣的象征，它共有五层，外观引人注目。在这里，肯尼亚人可以买到价格不菲的冻酸奶和寿司。每到周末，这里就会异常拥挤，保安工作往往不甚严密，有时还显得漫不经心。美国官方一直警告，内罗毕的商场会成为伊斯兰恐怖分子的袭击目标，特别是韦斯特盖特商场，因为位于这里一楼街面上的一家咖啡馆就是以色列人开的。
Fred Ngoga Gateretse, an official with the African Union, was having coffee at that cafe around noon when he heard two deafening blasts. He cowered on the floor and watched eight gunmen with scarves twisted over their faces firing at shoppers and then up at Kenyan police officers who were shooting down from a balcony as panicked shoppers dashed for cover. “Believe me, these guys were good shooters,” Mr. Gateretse said. “You could tell they were trained.”
当天正午时分，非洲联盟(African Union)官员弗雷德·恩戈加·加特雷策(Fred Ngoga Gateretse)正在这家咖啡馆喝咖啡，然后突然听到了两声震耳欲聋的枪响。他赶紧卧倒在地，此时看到八名用围巾遮住面部的持枪者在朝购物者开火，他们随后又抬枪射向在阳台上向下开枪的肯尼亚警察，惊恐万分的购物者则在急迫地寻找掩护。“相信我，这些人都是很好的射手，”加特雷策说，“看得出来，他们是受过训练的。”
Several witnesses said the attackers shouted for Muslims to run away while they methodically picked off other shoppers, executing them one by one. The mall, one of Nairobi’s most luxurious, is also popular with expatriates. It has served as the place for a power lunch, to catch a movie, to bring children for ice cream.
几名目击者说，这些袭击者曾大声呼喊，要求穆斯林躲开，同时又有条不紊地挑选出其他购物者，将他们一一击毙。这家商场是内罗毕最奢华的商场之一，它也很受外籍人士的欢迎。这里也是人们边谈生意边吃午餐、看电影以及带孩子来吃冰激凌的地方。
Four Americans were believed to have been injured in the attack, American officials said. No Americans were reported killed, but Secretary of State John Kerry, who called the attack “a heartbreaking reminder that there exists unspeakable evil in our world,” said that the wife of a local employee of the American government was among the dead. Two Canadians, one of them a diplomat based in Nairobi, and two French citizens were killed in the assault, their governments said.
美国官员称，据信有四名美国人在袭击中受伤。目前尚无美国人遇害的报道，但国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，美国政府在当地雇佣的一名工作人员的妻子在袭击中遇害身亡。克里称，此次袭击“令人心碎，它提醒我们，这个世界仍然存在无法言喻的邪恶”。加拿大和法国政府称，有两名加拿大人（其中一人是加拿大驻内罗毕外交官）和两名法国公民在袭击中遇害。
A confidential United Nations security report on Saturday described the attack as “a complex, two-pronged assault” with two squads of gunmen dashing into the mall from different floors at the same time and opening fire.
周六，联合国(United Nations)的一份秘密安全报告称，此次袭击是“一次复杂的、两方面同时进行的袭击”；两队持枪者分别从不同楼层同时闯入商场，开枪袭击。
The Shabab, an Islamist militant group based in Somalia, took responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for Kenya’s military operations in Somalia, which began nearly two years ago. “Kenya will not get peace unless they pull their military out of Somalia,” said Ali Mohamoud Rage, the Shabab’s spokesman, in a radio address. The Shabab also sent out a barrage of buoyant Twitter messages, bragging about the prowess of their fighters before Twitter abruptly suspended the account late Saturday. Later, a new one was set up.
索马里伊斯兰派武装组织青年党(Shabab)表示对袭击负责，并称此次袭击是为了报复肯尼亚始于近两年前的在索马里的军事行动。青年党发言人阿里·马哈茂德·拉杰(Ali Mohamoud Rage)在电台中称，“除非肯尼亚军队完全撤离索马里，否则肯尼亚将永无宁日。”该组织还在Twitter上发表了大量振奋自己士气的讯息，吹嘘其武装成员的勇猛。周六晚些时候，这个账号突然被Twitter暂停使用。随后该组织又设立了一个新的账号。
Kenya’s president, Uhuru Kenyatta, called the terrorists cowards and said Kenya would remain “as brave and invincible as the lions on our Coat of Arms.” He also sounded a somber note, pleading with Kenyans to give blood and provide sympathy, and said that he himself had lost “very close family members in this attack,” though he did not specify further. In addition to the 39 people killed, which included women and children, Mr. Kenyatta said, more than 150 people were wounded. Government officials said the wounded ranged in age from 2 to 78.
肯尼亚总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)把这些恐怖分子称为懦夫，并表示肯尼亚仍然会保持“勇气，不可战胜，就像我们徽章上的狮子一样”。他也表达了自己忧郁的一面，恳求肯尼亚人献血并对受害者表示同情，他说自己“在此次袭击中”失去了“一名非常亲近的家庭成员”，但是他并未进一步说明情况。39名遇害者中包括女性和儿童，肯雅塔说，有150余人受伤。政府官员表示，伤者年龄在2岁到78岁之间。
As of Saturday night, Kenyan commandos had cornered several of the assailants on the third floor of the mall, witnesses said. Western officials said they expected that the assailants would fight to the death, though the Kenyan news media reported that one wounded gunman had been captured and later died in a hospital. Witnesses who escaped the mall said there were still hostages trapped inside, but it was not clear if those were shoppers hiding in crawl spaces and barricaded stores or captives being held at gunpoint. Several witnesses also said that one of the assailants was a woman.
目击者称，截至周六晚间，肯尼亚突击队员已在商场三楼围困住了几名袭击者。西方官员说，估计那些袭击者会拼死反抗。但肯尼亚新闻媒体报道称，一名受伤的持枪者被抓获，后在一家医院身亡。从商场逃出来的目击者表示，里面还有人质被困，但尚不清楚人质是藏在隐蔽处和堵上了门的店铺里的购物者，还是枪口之下的被俘者。几名目击者还说有一名袭击者是女性。
Kenya serves as the economic engine of East Africa, and while it has been mostly spared the violence and turmoil of many of its neighbors, it has had other terrorist attacks. In 1998, Al Qaeda killed more than 200 people in an enormous truck bombing that nearly leveled the American Embassy in downtown Nairobi, while simultaneously attacking the American Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Islamist terrorists also struck an Israeli-owned hotel on Kenya’s Indian Ocean coast in 2002 and fired missiles at an Israeli airliner.
作为东非的经济引擎，肯尼亚很少出现发生在许多邻国的暴力和动乱事件，但也遭遇过其他一些恐怖袭击。1998年，基地组织制造的一个巨大的卡车爆炸事件导致200多人死亡，几乎将内罗毕市中心的美国大使馆夷为平地。在制造这起爆炸事件的同时，基地组织还袭击了位于坦桑尼亚达累斯萨拉姆的美国大使馆。2002年，伊斯兰派恐怖分子又袭击了肯尼亚印度洋沿岸一家为以色列人所有的酒店，并朝一架以色列民航飞机发射导弹。
More recently, the Shabab have put Kenya in its cross hairs, especially after Kenya sent thousands of troops into Somalia in 2011 to chase the Shabab away from its borders and then kept those troops there as part of a larger African Union mission to pacify Somalia. The Shabab have attacked churches in eastern Kenya, mosques in Nairobi and government outposts along the Kenya-Somalia border.
近些年，青年党把目标锁定在肯尼亚，特别是肯尼亚2011年派数千名士兵进入索马里之后。肯尼亚将青年党赶离两国边境，并让这些部队驻守在那里，作为非盟的索马里维和任务的一部分。青年党袭击过肯尼亚东部的教堂、内罗毕的清真寺以及肯尼亚和索马里边境线上的政府哨所。
As night fell, hours after the attack began, Kenyan police helicopters hovered overhead while soldiers in flak jackets and helmets jogged single file into the mall, faces grim, guns cocked. The flashing lights of ambulances lighted up the mall’s facade. Gunshots continued to ring out well past dark, though the Kenyan authorities did not provide much information about what was happening inside the mall. Several Kenyan soldiers were later brought out grimacing from what appeared to be gunshot wounds.
袭击开始几小时后，随着夜幕的降临，肯尼亚警方的直升机在头顶盘旋，身着防弹衣、头戴钢盔的士兵们排成一列纵队小跑着进入商场。他们表情严肃，个个都子弹上膛。救护车闪烁的灯光照亮了商场的外立面。入夜后，枪声依然不断传出，但肯尼亚当局没有提供有关商场情况的实时信息。后来，几名肯尼亚士兵被抬了出来。他们表情痛苦，似乎是受了枪伤。
Before its Twitter account was shut down, the Shabab sent out a message, saying the fighters in the mall would never give up.
在其Twitter账户被关闭之前，青年党发了一条讯息，称商场里的武装成员永远不会投降。
“There will be no negotiations whatsoever at #Westgate,” the message said.
“韦斯特盖特不会有任何谈判，”这条信息说。
The Shabab, who have pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda, used to control large parts of Somalia, imposing a harsh and often brutal version of Islam in their territory. They have beheaded civilians and buried teenage girls up to their necks in sand and stoned them to death. But in the past two years, the African Union forces, including the Kenyans, have pushed the Shabab out of most of their strongholds. The worry now, current and former American officials said Saturday, is that this attack could be the start of a comeback.
宣誓效忠基地组织的青年党曾控制着索马里的大片地区，在自己的地盘上严厉实行通常都很残忍的伊斯兰教义。他们将平民斩首，把十几岁的姑娘埋在沙子里，只露出头，然后用石头把她们砸死。但在过去两年，包括肯尼亚部队在内的非盟军队，把青年党从他们的大部分根据地赶了出去。现任和前任美国官员周六称，现在担心的是，这次袭击可能预示着青年党开始卷土重来。
“I think this is just the beginning,” said Rudy Atallah, the former director of African counterterrorism for the Pentagon.
“我觉得这仅仅是个开始，”五角大楼负责非洲反恐事务的前负责人鲁迪·阿塔拉(Rudy Atallah)说。
“An attack like this gives them the capability to recruit, it shows off their abilities, and it demonstrates to Al Qaeda central that they are not dead.”
“一场这样的袭击让他们能招募到新成员，展示了他们的能力，也能向基地组织中央表明他们还活着。”