TEHRAN, Iran — Suffering in an economy dragged down by years of mismanagement and the effects of international sanctions, Iran’s increasingly impoverished middle class voted in huge numbers last summer for President Hassan Rouhani, who promised to reignite growth by restoring ties with the rest of the world.
伊朗德黑兰——多年的的管理不善和国际制裁影响已让伊朗经济每况愈下，在此背景下，有大量日益贫困的伊朗中产阶级民众于去年夏天投票支持现任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)，后者承诺，要以修复和世界各国关系的方式来重新刺激经济增长。
But more than six months after Mr. Rouhani took office, hopes of a quick economic recovery are fading among ordinary Iranians, business owners and investors, while economists say the government is running out of cash.
然而，当鲁哈尼掌权六个多月后，在普通伊朗人、企业主和投资人当中，对经济迅速获得复苏的希望正在消退，而经济学家则说，政府正陷入资金短缺的困境。
Although Mr. Rouhani has managed to stabilize the national currency, halt inflation and forge a temporary nuclear deal that provides some relief from sanctions, delivering on his promises of economic growth has proved far more difficult. On taking office, he discovered that the government’s finances were in far worse condition than his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, had ever let on. Now, with a lack of petrodollars and declining tax revenues, Mr. Rouhani has little option but to take steps that in the short-run will only increase the pain for the voters who put him into office.
尽管鲁哈尼已设法稳定了伊朗的官方货币，遏制住了通胀，并达成了能在一定程度上放松经济制裁的临时核协定，然而，事实已证明，兑现经济增长的诺言要远比这些困难得多。上任之初，他就发现，政府的财政现状要比他的前任穆罕默德·艾哈迈德内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)曾公开过的情况严重得多。现在，石油美元的匮乏和税收的减少让哈鲁尼几乎别无选择，他能采取的措施，在短期内只会让那些选他上台的人民愈加痛苦。
With the start of the Iranian new year, on Friday, the government will begin phasing out subsidies on energy, the start of a process that will send the prices of gasoline and electricity, and other utilities, soaring by nearly 90 percent, economists say.
本周五是伊朗新年的第一天，届时，政府将开始逐步停止石油补贴，经济学家说，这是一个开始，此后的进程将把油价和电价、以及其他公共服务的价格抬高近90%，
The shortage of funds is also forcing the government to wind down a system of $12 monthly payments to nearly 60 million Iranians, with only the poorest eligible to reapply.
资金的匮乏还将迫使政府逐步撤销每月给近6000万伊朗人发放12美元救济的机制，只有最贫困的伊朗人才有资格申请这种救济。
In return, Mr. Rouhani’ s government can promise only a reduction in the inflation rate to 25 percent next year, from 42 percent last year and 32 percent currently.
作为回报，鲁哈尼政府仅仅承诺在来年把通胀率从去年的42%和目前的32%削减到25%。
That was hardly the payoff that Farshid Farshi, a sketch artist, was expecting when he voted for Mr. Rouhani in June. Mr. Farshi and his wife, a hairdresser, gathered up the head scarves they were selling illegally in one of Tehran’s central squares, Haft-e-Tir, recently, having spied the police up the road.
在素描艺术家法尔希德·法尔希(Farshid Farshi)看来，这这和他去年6月投票支持鲁哈尼时期待得到的回报实在相差的太远了。法尔希和他当美发师的妻子在德黑兰市中心的自由广场做着非法的头巾买卖，发现马路上有警察后，他们把货摊收了起来。
Business was bad anyway, he complained, tying up his merchandise in a bundle on the back of their motorcycle. The couple’s only daughter was hoping for a piano for her birthday, Mr. Farshi said. “But for now I only work more and more and have less and less. This seems to be our fate.”
他一边抱怨说反正也没什么生意，一边把货品捆成一团放到摩托车后座上。法尔希说，他们唯一的女儿希望能在生日那天得到一架钢琴。“可是现在，我干的活越来越多，挣的却越来越少。这似乎就是我们的命运。”
Iran’s stock market, which rode high on optimism injected by the new government and the temporary nuclear deal, has been in decline, losing 14 percent since its peak in December. The national currency, the rial, after months of stability, has dropped about 4 percent against the dollar in the last month, to just over 30,000 rials to the dollar on the black market.
此前，受新政府上台和临时核协定注入的乐观情绪影响，伊朗股市曾上扬到高位，于去年12月达至最高点，而后一路下跌，已经蒸发掉了14%的市值。上个月，已稳定了数月之久的伊朗官方货币里亚尔兑美元汇率下跌了近4%，其黑市兑换价已跌到了1美元兑3万里亚尔多一点的水平。
For the first time since the elections, the government was forced to sell dollars on the open market this month to support the rial, insiders say. Government spokesmen, trying to play down the significance of the rial’s fall, say the decline in the currency’s value is the result of a seasonal rise in demand for foreign currency tied to the New Year holiday.
内部人士说，政府被迫于本月在公开市场上出售美元，以支持里亚尔，这是选举以来的第一次。为了淡化里亚尔下跌的严重性，政府发言人说币值之所以会下跌，全都是因为和新年假期紧密相关的季节性外币需求上涨。
Others are saying the markets are losing faith in the government’s ability to get the economy going. “We are once again witnessing investors taking their money out of stocks and instead speculating on gold and foreign currency,” one stock market expert, Hamid Mirmouni, told the Fararu website recently. “The government continues to waste time and money, investors are losing hope.”
还有一些人则说，市场对政府的经济运行能力的信心正在消散。股市专家哈米德·米尔穆尼(Hamid Mirmouni)最近对Fararu网站表示，“我们再次目睹了投资者把资金撤出股市，转而去炒黄金和外币的现象。政府还在继续浪费时间和资金，投资者感到失望。”
Adding to the turmoil are the subsidy cuts — a step that most economists say is inevitable and necessary. Earlier, when gas prices were raised and rations imposed in 2007, protesters set fire to more than a dozen gas stations. The last time fuel subsidies were cut, in 2010, gasoline prices nearly quadrupled in Tehran.
削减补贴让经济局面愈加动荡——大多数经济学家表示，这步举措是不可避免的、也是必须的。早前，当政府于2007年提高汽油价格、限定油量配给时，抗议者纵火焚烧了数十座加油站。伊朗上一次削减燃料补贴是在2010年，当时，德黑兰的汽油价格飙升了近四倍。
Even those close to the Rouhani administration are saying they are hoping for a “miracle” to avoid the political damage from the cuts. “We are facing a black spring in Iran,” said Saeed Laylaz, an economist who advises Mr. Rouhani. He said he feared the government, like the Ahmadinejad administration, would resort to printing money to paper over the budget deficit, threatening a rise in inflation. “I am worried we might witness turmoil,” he said.
即使是和鲁哈尼政府关系密切的人都在说，他们期待能出现一场“奇迹”，避开削减补贴造成的政治破坏。鲁哈尼的顾问、经济学家赛义德·莱拉兹(Saeed Laylaz)说，“我们正面对伊朗的黑色之春。”他说，他担忧本届政府会像艾哈迈德内贾德政府那样，用印钱来掩盖预算赤字，那将导致通胀加剧。他说，“我担心，我们可能会看见经济陷入混乱。”
Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, echoed such worries in a speech Tuesday to dozens of the country’s most influential leaders, politicians, clerics and military commanders. He urged the government to pay attention to the poor, calling for social justice, meaning an equal distribution of wealth.
本周二，伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)在对数十名最具影响力的伊朗领导人、政客、神职人员和军方指挥官发表演讲时回应了这种担忧。他敦促政府关注穷人、呼吁社会公义，示意政府均分财富。
“The Islamic system does not accept economic growth without social justice,” Ayatollah Khamenei said. “Any progress in the country’s economy must improve the situation of the, in the true sense of the word, deprived sectors of the population.”
阿亚图拉·哈梅内伊说，“伊斯兰体制是不接受没有社会公义的经济增长的。这个国家的任何经济发展，必须能够改善人口中名副其实的贫困阶层的处境。”