What exactly does the nightmare of the beheading of another American, Peter Kassig, by Islamic State consist of?
又有一个美国人——彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)——惨遭伊斯兰国(Islamic State)斩首。这个噩梦究竟有哪些构成要素？
There is, of course, the image itself. In Kassig’s case a severed blood-smeared head appears between the feet of a hooded killer. We have seen, in other executions, the knife applied to the throat, the broken pliant victims, the left-handed sawing motion; and we have heard the dead, flat voice of the swaggering executioner. So we scarcely need to imagine how the life of this young and idealistic American, an aid worker, a recent convert to Islam, ended.
其中自然包括那些影像本身。在卡西格遇害事件中，一名蒙面行刑者的两脚之间，有一颗被斩落的血淋淋的人头。在其他处决场景中，我们看到过抵住喉咙的刀，看到过受害者瘫倒在地、逆来顺受的身影，看到过左手持刀挥砍的动作，还听到过来自那个耀武扬威的刽子手的不带感情的平直声音。
Yet imagination will not be stilled. It is tugged into the vortex of the prisoners’ suffering, feeding on details of how they were waterboarded and otherwise tortured, troubled by the mirror-image orange jump suits and the way these Facebook-savvy medieval killers riff off (and recruit through) the dark-side deviations of America’s great post-9/11 disorientation. The evil of Islamic State is evident not least in its cleverness.
但我们无法关住自己的想象力。它被拖进囚徒们所受苦难的漩涡，试图重现种种细节：他们是如何被水刑或其他酷刑折磨的？让我们遭受困扰的地方还包括，一模一样的橙色囚服，以及那些谙熟Facebook的“中世纪”杀手。后者针对后“9·11”时代全然迷失方向的美国的诸多劣行做出抨击（并籍此招募新人）。伊斯兰国的邪恶在它的这种小聪明里体现得尤为明显。.
Just as we condensed the slaughter of September, 2001, into three digits, the better to inure ourselves, so now we succumb to Monty-Pythonesque banality in dubbing the Islamic State executioner “Jihadi John:” a little alliteration to alleviate anguish.
正如我们为了减轻2011年9月的那场大屠杀所引发的不适，而把它浓缩成三个数字那样，现在，就让我们屈从于蒙蒂·派松式的平常做法，用一个朗朗上口的绰号——“圣战约翰”(Jihadi John)——来指代那个伊斯兰国的刽子手，以缓解内心的痛苦。
Again, we must imagine — that one minute this “Jihadi John” was struggling to get by, and get accepted, in drizzly England, unemployed with a mortgage to pay and a chip on his shoulder, and the next he stands in brilliant Levantine sunlight, where everything is clear and etched, at the vanguard of some Sunni Risorgimento intent on subjecting the world to its murderous brand of Wahhabi Islam. He has become part of something bigger. He has a mission. He has license to kill infidels (and even converts to Islam like Kassig) in the name of his faith. He is a revolutionary full of the certainties of that calling.
我们必须再次发挥自己的想象力：前一分钟，“圣战约翰”还在下着毛毛细雨的英格兰艰难度日，期待得到认可，他失业在家，还得偿还抵押贷款，心中愤愤不平；后一分钟，他就站在了叙利亚明媚的阳光下——此处的一切都是如此的清晰和鲜活——站在了由逊尼派主导的某个复兴运动的最前沿，这个运动旨在让世界臣服于瓦哈比派伊斯兰教的凶残威名之下。他成了一个干大事的人，他有使命在身，他被授权以信仰为名杀害异教徒（甚至是把刀口对准卡西格这种皈依了伊斯兰的教徒）。他是一个对自己的使命深信不疑的革命者。
How many more like him are out there, waiting to be lured from a Bradford pub, or the ghettoized suburbs of some French town, or a fractured Libya?
在布拉德福德的酒吧里，在某些法国小镇少数民族聚居的郊区，在四分五裂的利比亚，还有多少像他这样的人等着被引诱？
Perhaps this question begins to get at the true nature of the nightmare. Horrific as the images of five executions have been, they cannot in themselves explain the extent of the reaction in the West. Our societies are, after all, inured through movies and video games to brutal violence. It is unremarkable.
这个问题或许已经触到了噩梦的真正本质。五名人质被处决的场景令人毛骨悚然，但这些场景本身无法解释西方世界的反应程度。毕竟，一些电影和视频游戏已经让我们的社会对残忍与暴力习以为常了。
What is unbearable, in fact, is the feeling, 13 years after 9/11, that America has been chasing its tail; that, in some whack-a-mole horror show, the quashing of a jihadi enclave here only spurs the sprouting of another there; that the ideology of Al Qaeda is still reverberating through a blocked Arab world whose Sunni-Shia balance (insofar as that went) was upended by the American invasion of Iraq.
“9·11”事件发生13年后，令人无法忍受的其实是这样的感觉：美国一直在瞎忙；圣战分子的飞地从这里消失，又会从那里冒出来，仿佛在上演“打地鼠”式的恐怖秀；基地组织(Al Qaeda)的意识形态依然影响着闭塞的阿拉伯世界。而美国入侵伊拉克之举，在一定程度上打破了阿拉伯世界的什叶派和逊尼派的平衡态势。
And more: that the loss of 4,500 American combat troops in Iraq and more than 100,000 Iraqi lives produced no victory or clarity, but only a broken society and country; that the Arab Spring, which promised a way out of the mutually reinforcing confrontation of quasi-military dictatorship and political Islam, ended (outside Tunisia) in frustration and a revenge of the extremists; that “Jihadi John,” for now, has the upper hand on “moderate Mohammed.”
此外，美国的4500名作战人员死在了伊拉克，伊拉克则有10万人命丧黄泉，用这些生命换回来的却不是胜利或者清晰的局势，而是破碎的社会和国家；阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring) 原本有望化解军事独裁和政治伊斯兰之间愈演愈烈的冲突，结果却以失败告终（突尼斯除外），还招致了极端主义者的报复；“圣战约翰”目前比“温和的穆罕默德”更占上风。
The nightmare, in short, has less to do with the barbaric image itself than with the feeling of humiliation and powerlessness and déjà vu and exhaustion that it triggers.
简而言之，眼下的噩梦更多地关乎屈辱感、无力感、似曾相识的感觉，以及由此导致的精疲力竭，而非野蛮场景本身。
President Obama has vowed to “destroy” Islamic State. But even if that were achieved, and for now the means deployed do not seem commensurate with the objective, in what metastasized configuration would Islamic State’s ideas resurface?
奥巴马总统发誓要“摧毁”伊斯兰国。但即便真能摧毁伊斯兰国——当前所采取的手段与这一目标并不相称——伊斯兰国的观念又会以何种变异形态重新露头？
There is no reason, in the light of the aborted attempts to define a new sort of post-sectarian citizenship in societies across the region, to think that the Arab incubator of violent Islamist extremism will diminish in fertility. Youth allied to frustration allied to a decade of conflict do a powerful death wish make.
鉴于在当地社会确立后宗派时代新型公民权的尝试已经宣告失败，我们没有理由认为阿拉伯地区滋生崇尚暴力的伊斯兰极端主义的土壤会变得不那么肥沃。青年人，挫败感，持续了10年的冲突，把所有这些组合在一起，会生成强烈的求死愿望。
Daniel Bolger, an American general in the wars of Iraq and Afghanistan, has written a book called “Why We Lost.” In it he says, without equivocation, “I am a United States Army general, and I lost the Global War on Terrorism.” And so all that American blood and treasure end not with a whimper but with a declarative sentence.
曾在伊拉克和阿富汗参战的美国将领丹尼尔·博尔格(Daniel Bolger)写了一本书，名为《我们为什么会输》(Why We Lost)。他在书中明确表示，“我是美国陆军(United States Army)的一名将军，我输掉了这场全球反恐战争。”美国人付出的全部鲜血和财富由此化作了一个陈述句，而不是一声悲鸣。
But what was the aim of this war? If it was to keep America safe, it cannot be deemed a failure. If it was to remake the societies of Iraq and Afghanistan, and remove the terrorist threat to the United States, it fell far short. Islamic State’s executions summon from the American subconscious a desperate sense of having been lured into the trap of overreach.
但这场战争的目的究竟是什么？如果旨在保障美国的安全，那它就不能被视作失败。如果旨在重塑伊拉克和阿富汗社会，并消除美国面临的恐怖主义威胁，那它远远没能做到。伊斯兰国处决人质的举动，让美国人在潜意识里产生了一种绝望感，觉得自己被诱入了好高骛远的陷阱。