GENEVA — As Secretary of State John Kerry and foreign ministers from other world powers sought to hammer out an interim agreement to constrain Iran’s nuclear program, the Iranian government’s insistence on formal recognition of its “right” to enrich uranium emerged as a major obstacle, diplomats said Sunday.
日内瓦——外交官们周日称，虽然美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和其他大国的代表试图达成一项约束伊朗核计划的临时协议，但伊朗政府坚持要求其铀浓缩的“权利”获得正式承认，这已经成为了主要的障碍所在。
In long hours of closed-door discussions, Western and Iranian negotiators haggled over the language of a possible agreement. Toward the end of a marathon session, some diplomats believed that only a handful of words appeared to separate the two sides.
在长时间的闭门讨论中，西方和伊朗谈判人员对这个可能达成的协议的措辞进行了讨价还价。在马拉松式的会议接近尾声时，一些外交官认为，似乎只有在极少数的措辞上，双方还存在分歧。
But the dispute over enrichment rights, among other differences, meant that the talks ended not with the breakthrough that many had hoped for, but with only a promise that lower-level negotiators would meet here in 10 days for more discussions.
但是，此次会谈没有像很多人希望的那样取得突破，而主要原因是铀浓缩权方面的争议。双方仅仅承诺，较低级别的谈判代表将于10天后聚集在这里，开展更多的讨论。
Many reports have ascribed the failure of the talks to France’s insistence that any agreement put tight restriction on a heavy-water plant that Iran is building, which can produce plutonium.
许多报道中写到，本轮谈判之所以失败，是因为法国坚持协议中必须对伊朗正在施工的一家可生产钚的重水厂进行严格限制。
But while France took a harder line than its partners on some issues, a senior American official said it was the Iranian delegation that balked at completing an interim agreement, saying that it had to engage in additional consultations in Tehran before proceeding further.
不过，一位美国高级官员称，虽然在一些问题上，法国的态度比其他国家更加强硬，但是阻碍临时协议达成的是伊朗代表团。他们说，必须进一步请示德黑兰之后，才能继续会谈。
A senior American official who briefed Israeli reporters and experts in Jerusalem on Sunday said that the six world powers in the talks had approved a working document and presented it to the Iranians, according to Herb Keinon of The Jerusalem Post, who attended the briefing.
周日，美国一位高级官员在耶路撒冷对以色列记者和专家简要介绍了此次谈判。列席的《耶路撒冷邮报》(Jerusalem Post)记者赫伯·凯农(Herb Keinon)转述说，参加会谈的六国代表已经核准了一份工作文件，并将其提交给了伊朗代表。
“It was too tough for them,” Mr. Keinon quoted the American official as saying of the Iranians. “They have to go back home, talk to their government, and come back.”
“这份草案对他们来说实在太苛刻了，”凯农援引美国官员提及伊朗代表时的表述。“他们必须回去跟自己的政府讨论，然后再回来。”
The failure to achieve a breakthrough in Geneva followed a week in which the Iranians had raised the expectations of a possible breakthrough, perhaps calculating that this would add to the pressure on Western nations to make concessions.
在日内瓦谈判结束前的一周里，伊朗提高了大家对可能实现突破的期望，也许是觉得这样会增加西方国家的压力，令它们做出让步。
Both Mr. Kerry and his Iranian counterpart sought to put the best face on the deflating outcome.
虽然结果令人泄气，但克里和伊朗外长都力图展示最好的一面。
“We are all on the same wavelength, and that gives us the impetus to go forward when we meet again,” Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, told reporters after the talks ended.
“我们的步调是相同的，在下次会谈时，这会为我们提供前进的动力，”伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)在谈判结束后对记者说。
Mr. Kerry had a similar message: “There’s no question in my mind that we are closer now, as we leave Geneva, than we were when we came, and that with good work and good faith over the course of the next weeks, we can in fact secure our goal.”
克里也表达了类似的看法：“毫无疑问，在我看来，跟我们来日内瓦的时候相比，在离开时，我们距离目标已经更近了。在未来几周中，如果带着这样的诚意做好工作，我们可以真的达成目标。”
Still, the failure to conclude an accord gave an opening for critics in Congress, who have vowed to push for tougher sanctions, and in Israel and the conservative Arab Persian Gulf monarchies to mobilize opposition to an agreement.
尽管如此，未能缔结协议可能会引起国会批评者的抨击。他们发誓要推动更严厉的制裁措施，而且，以色列和保守的波斯湾阿拉伯君主制国家也可能因此获得机会，来鼓动对协议的反对。
Speaking to a large gathering of American Jewish leaders on Sunday evening, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel warned that his country would not be the only target of an Iranian nuclear weapon. “Coming to a theater near you — you want that?” Mr. Netanyahu asked. “Well, do something about that!”
周日晚间，在美国犹太领袖的大型聚会上，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)警告，伊朗核武器针对的目标不会只有以色列。“你想让火烧到你家附近吗？”内塔尼亚胡问道，“如果不想，那就采取行动吧！”
Defending his negotiating strategy, Mr. Kerry insisted Sunday that the agreement to freeze Iran’s nuclear program that he was seeking would be in Israel’s interest. “We are not blind, and I don’t think we are stupid,” Mr. Kerry said on “Meet the Press.”
同样在周日，克里对自己的谈判策略进行了辩护，坚称他寻求的冻结伊朗核计划的协议符合以色列的利益。“我们不瞎，我觉得我们也不傻，”克里在《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目上称。
“I think we have a pretty strong sense of how to measure whether or not we are acting in the interests of our country and of the globe,” he added, “and particularly of our allies, like Israel and the Gulf states, and others in the region.”
“我认为，我们相当清楚如何衡量自身的所作所为是否符合国家和全球的利益，尤其是盟国的利益，比如以色列、海湾国家，以及地区的其他国家。”他还说。
At the heart of the debate is the Obama administration’s two-part strategy, which calls for an interim agreement to temporarily freeze Iran’s nuclear efforts for six months so that diplomats have time to try to negotiate a more comprehensive accord.
争论的焦点是奥巴马总统的两步走策略，即倡导首先达成一项临时协议，让伊朗在6个月的时间里暂时冻结核活动，从而给外交官留出时间来努力为一项更全面的协议进行谈判。
Iran has asserted repeatedly that it has the right to enrich uranium, a necessary step in producing nuclear fuel both for power plants and, at a much higher level, for weapons. The issue appears central to Tehran’s insistence that any talks on initial constraints, like the talks in Geneva, also acknowledge an “end state” for Iran’s nuclear program.
伊朗反复强调，自身有权浓缩铀。如要制造核电厂和核武器所需的燃料，铀浓缩是必经之路，而后者所需的铀纯度要高得多。德黑兰坚持，任何针对初始限制的讨论，比如日内瓦谈判，必须得同时做出表述，伊朗的核计划会有怎样的“结局”。浓缩铀的权利看来是这种坚持的核心。
The Obama administration is prepared to allow Iran to enrich uranium to the low level of 3.5 percent as part of an interim agreement, as long as Iran agreed to other constraints on its nuclear activity.
奥巴马政府有意在临时协议中允许伊朗提炼纯度为3.5%的低度浓缩铀，而先决条件是伊朗同意对核活动施加其他一些限制。
But the administration is not prepared to acknowledge at this point that Iran has a “right” to enrich, apparently calculating that any enrichment that Iran might be allowed under a comprehensive accord would be tied to its willingness to agree to strict monitoring and limits on its program.
可是，奥巴马政府目前无意承认伊朗有“权”浓缩铀。这种做法似乎是打算，在全面协议中，倘若允许伊朗进行任何的浓缩活动，都得与伊朗是否愿意让外界对其核计划进行严格监督和限制挂钩。
“The United States does not believe there is an inherent right to enrichment, and we have said that repeatedly to Iran,” a senior administration official before the latest round of talks in Geneva.
最新一轮日内瓦谈判之前，奥巴马政府的一名高级官员称，“美国并不认为有所谓的固有浓缩权，而且我们反复向伊朗说明了这一点。”
Whether the differences with Iran over enrichment can be finessed somehow in the next round of talks is unclear. In an appearance before the Iranian Parliament on Sunday, the Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani, insisted that Iran retained an explicit right to enrich uranium.
尚不清楚双方是否能在下一轮谈判中巧妙地处理在铀浓缩问题上的分歧。伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)周日来到国会，坚称伊朗拥有铀浓缩的明确权利。
“National interests are our red line,” he said. “Among those rights are nuclear rights within the framework of international law, including the right to enrich uranium on Iranian soil.”
“国家利益是我们的红线，”他说，“这些权利涵盖了国际法框架下的核权利，包括在伊朗领土上浓缩铀的权利。”
The British foreign secretary, William Hague, said that Western representatives were united in the last hours of the meeting with Iran over the proposals given to the Iranian delegation to consider. Mr. Hague told the BBC that “narrow gaps” remained with Iran, but that much had gone right in Geneva. “On the question of will it happen in the next few weeks, there is a good chance of that,” he said of an interim agreement. “A deal is on the table, and it can be done. But it is a formidably difficult negotiation. I can’t say exactly when it will conclude.”
英国外相威廉·黑格(William Hague)表示，与伊朗谈判的最后几个小时里，西方代表就提交给伊朗代表团进行考虑的草案达成了一致。黑格告诉BBC，与伊朗仍存在“微小差距”，不过大部分问题已在日内瓦得到解决。谈到临时协议，他说，“至于能否在接下来几周达成，这种可能性较大。协议已经在桌上了，是可行的。不过谈判异常艰难。我不能预测到底什么时候可以完成。”