WASHINGTON — Standing in Al Faw palace in Baghdad, surrounded by an artificial lake and the ragged remnants of eight years of war, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. felt a surge of emotion on that day in December 2011.
华盛顿——2011年12月，当副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)站在巴格达法奥宫(Al Faw Palace)里，身旁环绕着人工湖和八年战乱所留下的破败景象时，他感到一阵激动。
He had gone to Iraq to note the end of an era, the departure of American troops from a country that had cost his own so much. Ebullient, he praised the troops, congratulated the generals, wished Iraqi leaders good luck and called President Obama to share his excitement.
他去伊拉克，是为了宣布一个时代的终结：美国军队即将从这个国家撤离——这个国家令美国付出了极高的代价。他热情洋溢地称赞军队、问候将领，并向伊拉克领导人表示祝愿，然后致电奥巴马总统表达自己的兴奋之情。
“All I’ve said about this job, I take it back,” Mr. Biden later recalled telling Mr. Obama. “Thank you for giving me the chance to end this goddamn war.”
“我要收回我对这份工作说过的所有话，”拜登后来回忆他与奥巴马的通话时说。“感谢你给我这个机会，来结束这场该死的战争。”
“Joe,” he remembered the president responding, “I’m glad you got to do it.”
“乔，”他记得总统这样回答，“我很高兴由你来完成这项任务。”
For two men who had run for office on the promise of getting out of Iraq, it seemed like a moment of validation. But that moment has proved achingly ephemeral. It was not the end of the war or even the end of their involvement.
这两个人在竞选时都承诺要从伊拉克撤军，对于他们而言，这似乎是一个兑现承诺的时刻。不过这个时刻似乎极其短暂。战争并没有结束，甚至连美国的干预也没有结束。
Two and a half years later, Mr. Obama has ordered up to 300 Special Operations members back to Iraq and may yet authorize airstrikes to prevent the collapse of the government at the hands of a brutal Islamic insurgency.
两年半之后，奥巴马命令300名特种作战部队成员回到伊拉克，他或许还会授权实施空中打击，以避免那个政府被残忍的伊斯兰派武装势力所推翻。
The journey from then to now is a tale of premature celebration and dashed hopes. A president who thought he had set Iraq on a more stable course that could be sustained without American help has now determined that American diplomacy and power are critical to saving it. Tired of war, like most Americans, he found his aspiration to move on bedeviled by forces tearing across a region in a story punctuated by miscalculation and missed opportunities.
从现在来看，当时的访问只是一次过早的庆祝，象征着希望的破灭。奥巴马本以为，他已经使伊拉克走上了一条更加稳定的道路，即使没有美国的帮助，也能继续维系。但是现在，奥巴马却认为，美国的外交努力和实力对于拯救它至关重要。与大多数美国人一样，他也厌倦了战争。但这一段故事中，充满了误判和错失的时机，奥巴马发现，撕裂整个地区各支力量，令他就此抽身的愿望无法顺利实现。
The withdrawal celebrated on that winter day in 2011 was, in the end, the result of a failed negotiation. In theory, both Mr. Obama and the Iraqi leadership wanted a small American detachment to stay behind. In reality, neither side was enthusiastic and seemed just as happy that a dispute over legal conditions scotched the deal.
2011年那个冬天所庆祝的撤军，说到底只是一场失败谈判的结果。理论上，奥巴马和伊拉克领导层都希望让美国保留一部分驻军。然而事实上，双方都没有什么热情，而且关于法律条款的分歧导致双方未能达成共识时，两国似乎也都很高兴。
The residual troops would not have been a combat force, but might have mounted counterterrorism missions and helped Iraqi forces gain better intelligence on the militants. Whether it would have made a difference is impossible to know, but will be a subject of debate for a long time.
保留的驻军不会充当作战部队，但是或许可以执行反恐任务，更好地帮伊拉克部队取得武装分子的情报。这样能否带来改变无从知晓，但这个问题将在很长的时间里成为人们争论的话题。
Just as important if not more so, however, was the impact of the civil war in next-door Syria. Few if any expected on that day in 2011 just how far the Syria conflict would escalate, leading to the creation of virulent new Islamist jihadist groups like the Nusra Front and Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, known as ISIS or sometimes ISIL, that would ultimately spill over the border and threaten Baghdad.
然而，同样重要，甚至更加重要的是，对邻国叙利亚内战的影响。在2011年的那一天，几乎没有人能预料到叙利亚冲突会加剧到何等程度。这场冲突催生了努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)和伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS或ISIL）等新生的伊斯兰圣战组织。也几乎没有人能料到，这些凶险的新组织最终会突破边境，对巴格达构成威胁。
“The notion that Syria would completely fall apart and become this major staging ground for Nusra and ISIS, which wasn’t even ISIS at the time, I don’t think people anticipated and I don’t think could have been anticipated,” said Colin Kahl, who was the Pentagon official in charge of Iraq until the withdrawal.
前五角大楼官员科林·卡尔(Colin Kahl)表示，“我觉得没人想到叙利亚会四分五裂，成为努斯拉阵线和ISIS的主要集结地——当时ISIS都还没有成型。我觉得这是无法预料的。”在美国撤军之前，卡尔一直在五角大楼负责伊拉克事务。
But in the months that followed, as Syria degenerated into a toxic stew of rebellion and jihadism, some inside and outside the administration warned of the dangers of a broader regional destabilization. The administration overestimated the capacity of the Iraqi security forces and underestimated the power of ISIS. And it felt stymied by Iraqi leaders and a Syria crisis that it considered beyond its control.
但在接下来的几个月，随着叛乱活动和圣战运动致使叙利亚陷入泥潭，奥巴马政府内外的一些人士提醒道，地区内不稳定局势可能会扩散。美国政府高估了伊拉克安全部队的能力，也低估了ISIS的力量。而且，美国也感觉伊拉克领导人及叙利亚危机使其陷入了困境，美国认为叙利亚危机已经超出了自己的控制范围。
“We’ve had to overcome Iraqi reluctance, political dysfunction and the chaos in Syria,” said Antony J. Blinken, the president’s deputy national security adviser and a key player on Iraq policy. “It was a work very much in progress when ISIL launched its offensive.”
“我们需要克服很多困难——伊拉克不情愿的态度、政治困局，以及叙利亚的混乱，”副国家安全顾问安东尼·J·布林肯(Antony J. Blinken)说。“ISIL发动攻击时，我们很多工作都还没做。”布林肯在制定伊拉克政策方面扮演着重要角色。
At various points, the president approved modest measures to shape the Syria conflict but resisted a broader intervention, afraid of another Iraq. Now he finds himself facing another Iraq anyway — in Iraq. And the war that Mr. Biden cursed is again cursing the Obama administration.
奥巴马总统曾在多个时间点上，批准采取小规模举措，来影响叙利亚冲突，但拒绝进行更广泛的干预，他担心叙利亚会成为另一个伊拉克。如今，他发现自己仍然需要面对“另一个伊拉克”，而且还是在伊拉克。这场让拜登张口咒骂的战争，再一次给奥巴马政府带来困扰。
Quieted War Offers Hope
战争缓和带来的希望
Mr. Obama came to office vowing to withdraw from Iraq but he largely followed an agreement signed by his predecessor, George W. Bush, with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki committing the United States to leave by the end of 2011. Both Washington and Baghdad had imagined that they would negotiate a new agreement for a small residual force after that.
奥巴马上任时承诺将从伊拉克撤军，但他基本上只是遵循了前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和伊拉克总理总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)签署的一份协议，该协议要求美军在2011年底前撤出。华盛顿和巴格达都曾设想，在此之后，将商定一份新的协议，从而保留少量驻军。
But as 2011 opened, the war had quieted down. After a troop increase ordered by Mr. Bush, a strategy shift by Gen. David H. Petraeus and a change of sides by Sunni militias, Mr. Maliki’s government seemed in a strong position. Gen. Lloyd Austin, the commander on the ground, developed proposals for keeping as many as 24,000 troops in Iraq after 2011, only to run into instant resistance.
但2011年初，战争已经平静下来。在布什下令增兵、戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)将军的战略转向，以及逊尼派民兵组织倒戈这三件事之后，马基利政府似乎处境无虞。驻伊部队总指挥劳埃德·奥斯汀(Lloyd Austin)上将制定了一些方案，提出2011年后最多可以保留2.4万军队，这些方案立刻遭到了抵制。
“The White House looks at the 20,000 number and was like, you’ve got to be kidding,” Mr. Kahl recalled. “This looks like a permanent Korea-style presence in Iraq, which nobody supported.” Mr. Obama’s appointees concluded that the military was trying to still do everything it was doing before, just with fewer troops, rather than changing the mission to reflect a more reduced role. At a meeting in the White House Situation Room, Robert M. Gates, then the defense secretary, made clear that was not acceptable.
“白宫看到2万这个数字后，那感觉就像在说，你在开玩笑吧，”卡尔回忆说，“这看起来就像是在韩国的那种永久驻军， 不会得到支持的。”奥巴马任命的官员得出结论说，军方只不过是用更少的军队做同样的事，而不是改变任务，以反映自己缩水的角色。时任国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在白宫局势研究室的一次会议上明确表示，那是无法接受的。
Pentagon officers and General Austin’s team refined the plans, developing options of 19,000 troops, 16,000 troops and 10,000 troops. The general preferred the highest number and deemed the lowest unwise. Mr. Biden aggressively pushed for a smaller force. Tom Donilon, the president’s national security adviser, asked Mr. Gates if he could live with 10,000. Mr. Gates said he could.
国防部官员和奥斯汀上将的团队把这些方案进行了提炼，给出了三个选项：1.9万、1.6万和1万驻军。奥斯汀上将倾向于最大规模，认为最小的选项很不明智。拜登积极推动较小规模的驻军方案。总统的国家安全顾问汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)问盖茨能否接受1万这个规模，盖茨同意了。
James Jeffrey, then ambassador to Iraq, said it was clear that some around the president were not eager to stay.
时任驻伊拉克大使詹姆斯·杰弗里(James Jeffrey)说，显然，总统身边的一些人并不想让美军留在伊拉克。
“Certainly there were people close to him in the White House that were uncomfortable with his decision,” he said, “and every time we were running into trouble trying to get the Iraqis to go along, they wanted to pull the plug.”
“当然了，一些在白宫与他关系密切的人不满意他的决定，每次当我们在说服伊拉克方面遇到困难时，他们就想赶紧撤军。”
But he added that the immunity dispute left them little choice. The Maliki government continued to insist that American troops fall under Iraqi legal jurisdiction, a position rejected by the Pentagon. Ultimately, Mr. Obama had enough. “He wasn’t going to beg the Iraqis to let us stay,” Mr. Kahl said.
但他接着说，豁免权上的争议让他们别无选择。马利基政府一直坚称，驻伊美军在伊拉克的司法管辖范围内，而国防部拒绝接受这一观点。最终，奥巴马失去了耐性。“他不打算求着伊拉克让美军留下，”卡尔说。
On Oct. 21, Mr. Obama talked with Mr. Maliki by video again and they agreed that American troops would pull out by the end of the year according to the original agreement. Neither seemed unhappy.
10月21日，奥巴马再次与马利基通了视频电话，双方同意，美军将根据原来的协定于年底之前撤出。似乎两人都没有什么不高兴的。
“We really didn’t want to be there and he really didn’t want us there,” said a former senior White House official. “It’s not like Maliki went out of his way to get a deal. It was almost a mutual decision, not said directly to each other, but in reality that’s what it became. And you had a president who was going to be running for re-election, and getting out of Iraq was going to be a big statement.”
“我们真的不想留在那里，他也真的不想让我们留在那里，”一名前白宫高级官员说，“马利基可没有想方设法要达成一项协议。这几乎是一个共同的决定，不是一方直接说给另一方听的，但实际上的结果就是这样的。由于总统打算竞选连任，从伊拉克撤军将是一个重要的姿态。”
With American troops gone, Mr. Obama focused his attention on other issues, not to mention his re-election. There was ample evidence that Mr. Maliki might return to the sort of sectarian approach that alienated Sunnis in the past, sowing the sort of disaffection that would ultimately create an environment that would prove fertile for ISIS. But Mr. Obama had no regular contact with Mr. Maliki, leaving it to others to manage.
从伊拉克撤军后，奥巴马把注意力放在了其他问题上，包括他的连任竞选。有充分证据表明，马利基可能回归以往那种疏远逊尼派的教派政策，激起不满情绪，并最终会营造出对ISIS极为有利的环境。但奥巴马没有与马利基定期联系，而是把这些工作交给了其他人。
“The last three years saw a continuous erosion of Iraq’s institutions — from the marginalization of Parliament to the politicization of the military and judiciary — without much or any public criticism or U.S. pushback from the highest levels,” said Meghan O’Sullivan, who was Mr. Bush’s deputy national security adviser.
“过去三年，从议会的边缘化，到军方和司法部门的政治化，伊拉克的社会建制不断恶化，但却很少或压根没有招致公开的谴责，美国的领导层也没有加以制止，”布什政府的副国家安全顾问梅根·L·奥沙利文(Meghan L. O’Sullivan)说。
Mr. Obama believed it was time for Iraq to handle its own affairs.
奥巴马认为，到了伊拉克自力更生的时候了。
“It’s hard to say the president should spend every week nurturing this guy and keep troops in there,” said Mr. Jeffrey, who also served as a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Bush. “The whole purpose of propping it up is so it will stand on its own.”
“很难说总统真的应该投入大量时间来维持与伊拉克领导人的关系，并保留在那里的驻军，”同样曾担任布什政府副国家安全顾问的杰弗里说，“援助其政府的唯一目的就是让伊拉克靠自己的双腿站立起来。”
‘You Could See This Coming’
‘你可以看到这个的出现’
At that time the Syria civil war was raging and the scattered remnants of Al Qaeda in Iraq were reconstituting themselves as ISIS. “You could see this coming,” said another administration official. “It was a little dot and it was growing and growing and growing.” But the official said that while some raised alarms, senior levels in Washington were not focused on the implications for Iraq until a year ago.
那时，叙利亚内战正如火如荼，分散在伊拉克各地的基地组织(Al Qaeda)残余力量正在重组成为ISIS。“你可以看到这个的出现，”另一名政府官员说，“它当时是个小点，不过越长越大。”这名官员说，虽然有人做出警告，但华盛顿高层直到一年前才开始关注这个组织对伊拉克意味着什么。
Other officials blamed Iraqi leaders who were not all that interested in American help. In early 2012, Obama advisers said they tried to create a joint “fusion center” in Baghdad to share intelligence, but the Iraqis backed out. Similarly, in March 2012, when Iraq was hosting an Arab League summit meeting, the Americans offered to conduct surveillance flights for security, but Mr. Maliki said no.
还有一些官员把问题归咎于伊拉克领导人，他们对美国的帮助不怎么感兴趣。2012年初，奥巴马的顾问说，他们曾试图在巴格达创建一个“融合中心”以共享情报，但伊拉克方面退出了合作。类似地，2012年3月，在伊拉克举行一次阿拉伯国家联盟峰会期间，美国曾表示愿意为安保做侦察飞行，但马利基没有接受。
“Iraq kept a distance until about a year ago when the pressure from western Iraq was threatening the state,” said Mr. Donilon, who stepped down as national security adviser in mid-2013. “They failed to deal with it and exacerbated it through the political process.”
“伊拉克在保持距离，直到大约一年前，那时来自伊拉克西部地区的压力已威胁到国家的生存，”多尼伦说，他于2013年中从国家安全顾问的位置上退了下来。“他们没有解决这个问题，而且通过政治过程加剧了它。”
Iraqi leaders began asking Washington for help and the administration responded by increasing military sales. It could provide small arms and Hellfire missiles but Iraq had only two Cessna planes to carry such missiles. The administration pushed Congress to authorize the sale or lease of Apache helicopters and F-16 fighter jets, but lawmakers were wary of empowering Mr. Maliki, who they feared might use the power to strengthen his political hand.
伊拉克领导人开始向华盛顿求助，美国政府的响应是增加军火出售。美国原本可以提供小规模武器和地狱之火导弹，但伊拉克只有两架塞斯纳飞机能携带这种导弹。美国政府力图得到国会批准，向伊拉克出售或租赁阿帕奇直升机和F-16战斗机，但议员对增强马利基的力量有所担心，他们怕马利基可能使用这些力量来加强他对政治的控制。
Mr. Maliki came to Washington last October seeking aid and Mr. Obama authorized setting up a targeting cell in Baghdad to help Iraqis combat the growing threat from ISIS. A group of Special Operations members — “small double digits,” according to one official — were sent to the United States Embassy in Baghdad, the largest American diplomatic outpost in the world, but were limited in what they could do. The Americans flew just one surveillance flight a month over Iraq at the time.
去年10月马利基来华盛顿求援，奥巴马批准在巴格达建立一个确定靶标的小组，以帮助伊拉克对付来自ISIS的越来越大的威胁。一个特别行动小组被派到美国在世界上最大的驻外机构巴格达大使馆，据一位官员称小组人数在“很小的两位数”，但他们能做的事情很有限。这些美国人每个月只在伊拉克上空做一次空中侦查。
Suicide bombings spiked, up from five a month when the Americans left to 50 a month by last winter. Then came the fall of Falluja and Ramadi in western Iraq in January. While stunned, the administration responded with only modest efforts to turn the tide, still unwilling to consider a more robust intervention. American officials focused on making sure Mr. Maliki went through with April elections in hopes of defusing political unrest.
自杀性爆炸事件激增，从美国撤军时的每月5次，增加到去年冬天的每月50次。接着在今年1月份，伊拉克西部的费卢杰和拉马迪失守。美国政府在震惊之余只采取了有限的措施来扭转局势，仍不愿意考虑更强有力的干预。美国官员关注的是确保马利基能顺利渡过4月份的选举，以期化解政治动荡局面。