BAGHDAD — Just before midnight on Friday, Shiite militiamen in eight black S.U.V.’s rolled up to the Baghdad home of an important Sunni politician and abducted him and four of his bodyguards, a brazen move that threatened to further convulse a country already in the grip of a political crisis.
巴格达——上周五接近午夜时分，什叶派民兵乘坐八辆黑色越野车抵达巴格达一名重要的逊尼派政界人士的家中，绑架了此人和他的四名保镖。这一肆无忌惮的行径，眼看就要进一步地搅乱这个业已深陷政治危机的国家。
For hours at a secret location on Baghdad’s southeastern edge, the bodyguards said, they were beaten with a lead pipe, their tormentors demanding that they admit that their boss, Riyadh al-Adhadh, the president of Baghdad’s provincial council, was preparing to support an invasion of the capital by Sunni militants fighting under the banner of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, who are in control of large amounts of territory in the north and west of Iraq. The episode, which ended with the eventual release of the five men, was a vivid portrayal of what Iraqi politics looks like up close, playing out like a gangster movie and defined by its currencies of intimidation and violence.
保镖们表示，在巴格达东南部边缘地带的一个秘密地点，对方用一根铅管殴打了他们几个小时。折磨他们的人逼迫他们承认，自己的老板、巴格达省议会议长里亚德·阿达德(Riyadh al-Adhadh)预谋支持打着伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS)旗号战斗的逊尼派武装分子攻入首都巴格达。ISIS目前控制着伊拉克北部和西部的的大片区域。这起事件最终以被劫持的五人获释告终。它详细而生动地描绘了伊拉克的政坛生态，就像是一部肆意挥洒恐怖和暴力元素的黑帮电影。
The United States and other foreign powers have pressed for a political solution to Iraq’s growing crisis, and President Obama has suggested that more military help, and possibly American airstrikes against the militants, will come only with the formation of a new, inclusive government with meaningful roles for the Sunnis and Kurds, Iraq’s two main minority groups.
美国等大国一直在施加外部压力，要求通过政治方案解决日渐加剧的伊拉克危机。奥巴马总统已提出，要想美方提供更多的军事援助，甚至包括对武装分子发动空袭，伊拉克就必须首先组建一个包容的新政府，而且来自逊尼派和库尔德人这两个伊拉克的主要少数群体的人士必须在政府中出任一些实权性职务。
Iraq’s international supporters have praised recent political steps — the naming of a Sunni, Salim al-Jubouri, as the new speaker of Parliament, and the selection of a Kurd as president — and have pushed the government to quickly decide on a new prime minister, a position held by the Shiite majority. Yet the abductions are another sign that American demands for political reconciliation seem divorced from the reality of Iraqi politics.
伊拉克在国际社会的支持者最近对政府采取的几项政治举措表示赞扬——任命了逊尼派人士萨利姆·朱布里(Salim al-Jubouri)为议会的新议长，并且推举了一名库尔德人出任总统。国际社会还催促伊拉克政府迅速选出由多数群体什叶派占据的新总理人选。然而，绑架案再次表明，美国提出的政治和解要求似乎与伊拉克的政治现实相去甚远。
After a harrowing ordeal, the abducted men were returned to their homes on Saturday afternoon. The bodyguards were bruised and in tears as they were helped from vehicles, but they were alive, and the potential political crisis the episode could have set off seemed to have been averted for the moment. To celebrate their return, a sheep was slaughtered, women threw candies in the air and men fired long bursts of celebratory gunfire across the roofs of the densely packed Sunni neighborhood of Adhamiya.
在经历痛苦的折磨后，遭劫持的五人于周六下午返回了各自的家中。被扶着下车时，保镖们浑身伤痕，流下了眼泪，不过他们仍然活着。看起来，这起本可引发政治危机的事件暂时不会带来麻烦。在人口稠密的逊尼派聚居区阿达米亚，当地人宰杀了一头羊庆祝他们的归来，妇女们四处抛洒着糖果，男人们则长时间地鸣枪以示庆贺，让子弹飞过屋顶。
“We are living in a jungle,” Mr. Adhadh said in an interview at his home on Saturday shortly after his release.
“我们生活在一座丛林里，”获释不久的阿达德周六在家中接受采访时说。
The effort to win Mr. Adhadh’s release involved the new speaker of Parliament and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, as well as pressure on Iraqi leaders from Western diplomats who were worried that the episode would further destabilize the political situation and heighten sectarian tensions.
争取阿达德获释的努力和伊拉克议会新议长及总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)有关，还和西方外交官对伊拉克领导人施加的压力有关。后者担忧劫持事件会进一步破坏伊拉克的政局，加剧宗派之间的对立。
But it was the direct intervention of a powerful militia leader that ultimately secured Mr. Adhadh’s freedom: Qais al-Khazali, the leader of Asaib Ahl al-Haq, a Shiite militant and political group with close ties to Iran. The group once fought the Americans, and more recently has fought in Syria’s civil war on the side of the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
不过，最终让阿达德重获自由的却是一名势力强大的民兵组织领导人的直接介入：与伊朗关系密切的什叶派武装和政治团体“正义联盟”(Asaib Ahl al-Haq)的领导人卡伊斯·卡扎利(Qais al-Khazali)。该组织曾与美国作战，并在最近的叙利亚内战中与叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统领导的政府并肩作战。
Now the group, along with other Shiite militias aligned with Iran, has been given wide authority by Mr. Maliki to provide security in Baghdad, and root out so-called sleeper cells of Sunni insurgents inside the capital that government officials believe are working to help ISIS advance on Baghdad.
如今，“正义联盟”及其他一些与伊朗结盟的什叶派民兵组织得到了马利基授予的广泛许可，有权在巴格达进行安保工作，并根除逊尼派叛乱者在首都内部安插的所谓的地下组织。政府官员认为，这些组织正在协助ISIS向巴格达挺进。
Mr. Adhadh’s abduction appeared to be one of these operations.
阿达德遭绑架一事似乎就属于这种行动。
In the interview, Mr. Adhadh was careful to say that the men who had kidnapped him were not fighters for Asaib Ahl al-Haq, but that it was Mr. Khazali’s influence over other groups that secured his release. But it is widely assumed here that Mr. Adhadh’s abduction was actually the work of Asaib Ahl al-Haq.
在采访中，阿达德谨慎地表示劫持他的人不是效力于“正义联盟”的武装分子，但卡扎利对其他组织的影响力确保了他获释。不过，这里的人普遍认为，阿达德遭绑架一事实际上就是“正义联盟”干的。
Mr. Adhadh said that he had not been harmed, but that his bodyguards were severely beaten. One of them, covered in bruises and in tears, said, “They beat me from midnight until the sun rose” as they demanded that he detail Mr. Adhadh’s involvement in the insurgency. “I said, ‘I know nothing bad about him, believe me.’ ”
阿达德表示自己没有受到伤害，不过几名保镖遭到了毒打。其中一名伤痕累累的保镖流着泪说，“他们从午夜开始打我，一直打到太阳升起来，”同时要求他详细说明阿达德参与反叛活动的情况。“我说，‘据我所知，他完全没做过坏事，相信我。’”
Mr. Adhadh said that his abductors told him that they believed he had connections to ISIS and that, he said, “when they come to Baghdad I will help them.”
阿达德称，绑架者告诉他，他们认为他和ISIS有联系，并且“他们来巴格达时我会帮助他们。”
Mr. Maliki’s government has frequently singled out Sunni lawmakers using the pretense of terrorism charges, and Mr. Adhadh spent many months in jail in 2012 over accusations that he was funding terrorism. He denied the allegations and was later released, apparently for lack of evidence. In late 2011, the government accused the Sunni vice president, Tariq al-Hashemi, of terrorism and later went after the Sunni finance minister, Rafi al-Essawi. Mr. Hashemi, who now lives in Turkey, was sentenced to death in absentia. Mr. Essawi also fled the country.
马利基领导的政府频频以恐怖主义指控为借口来对付逊尼派议员。2012年，阿达德曾因被控资助恐怖主义而被关押了几个月。他否认相关指控，并于随后获释，显然是因为缺乏证据。2011年年底，政府指控出身逊尼派的副总统塔里克·哈希米(Tariq al-Hashemi)涉嫌恐怖主义，随后又剑指同样来自逊尼派的财政部长拉菲·埃萨维(Rafi al-Essawi)。现在生活在土耳其的哈希米被缺席判处死刑。埃萨维也逃离了伊拉克。
As the events played out near Mr. Adhadh’s home on Saturday, two young men sat in their furniture shop around the corner. They recalled the days when one man had a monopoly on violence, a situation they said differed from today, when myriad militias and armed men have the power to kill and intimidate with impunity.
周六，当阿达德家附近热热闹闹时，两名年轻男子正坐在街角的家具店里。他们回忆起了一个人垄断暴力的年代。他们说，当年的情景和今天不同，现在各种民兵组织和武装分子都能有恃无恐地搞杀人和恐吓。