HONG KONG — An Iranian oil tanker that collided with another vessel in the East China Sea and that had been burning for more than a week sank on Sunday, the Chinese Ministry of Transportation said.
香港——中国交通运输部称，周日，在东海与另一艘船相撞并持续燃烧一周多的一艘伊朗油轮沉没。
“There is no hope of finding survivors,” Mahmoud Rastad, the chief of Iran’s maritime agency, said of the missing crew members, according to The Associated Press.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，伊朗海事机构负责人穆罕默德·拉斯塔德(Mahmoud Rastad)说：“没有找到幸存者的希望。”
President Hassan Rouhani of Iran expressed his condolences and called on government agencies to investigate the tragedy and to take any necessary legal measures, according to state TV.
据伊朗官方电视台报道，伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)表达了他的哀悼，他还呼吁政府机构调查这场悲剧，并采取一切必要的法律措施。
The 899-foot vessel, the Sanchi, sank at 4:45 p.m., the Chinese ministry said.
中国交通运输部称，899英尺（约合274米）长的“桑吉号”(Sanchi)于下午4点45分沉没。
On Saturday, a Chinese salvage team recovered two bodies from the stricken tanker, which had been at risk of exploding after it caught fire and was left adrift, the state news agency Xinhua reported. The four members of the team found the two bodies on deck.
中国官方通讯社新华社报道称，中国救援队周六从被撞的油轮上找到了两具遗体。着火并处于漂流状态后，油轮一直面临爆炸的风险。救援队的四名成员是在甲板上发现这两具遗体的。
The Panamanian-flagged vessel collided with the CF Crystal, a Hong Kong-registered bulk freighter, around 8 p.m. Jan. 6, about 160 nautical miles east of Shanghai. That area of the East China Sea is frequently crossed by ships traveling to China, South Korea and Japan.
1月6日晚上8点左右，这艘悬挂巴拿马国旗的油轮在上海以东约160海里（约合300公里）的地方与在香港注册的散装货船“长峰水晶”相撞。事发海域位于东海，经常有前往中国、韩国和日本的船只经过。
All 21 Chinese crew members of the CF Crystal, which was transporting grain to Guangdong Province in southeastern China from the United States, were rescued, the Ministry of Transportation in Beijing said. The rest of the crew, including 30 Iranians and two Bangladeshis, remained missing.
位于北京的中国交通运输部表示，事发时正把粮食从美国运往中国东南省份广东的“长峰水晶”上的21名中国船员全部获救。其余船员，包括30名伊朗人和两名孟加拉国人，依然下落不明。
The Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, told his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, by phone on Saturday that “as long as there is 1 percent of hope, China will continue to make 100 percent effort” in the rescue effort, according to a report on the ministry’s website.
中国外交部网站上的一篇报道显示，中国外交部长王毅周六与伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)通电话时表示，“只要有1%的希望，中方就将继续尽100%的努力”。
On Monday, the body of a mariner suspected of having been on the ship was recovered and sent to Shanghai for identification.
上周一，一具怀疑是油轮上海员的遗体被找到，并被送往上海确认身份。
The tanker was carrying 136,000 tons of condensate, a light oil, to South Korea from Iran, China’s Ministry of Transport said. It was not clear how much had spilled or burned off after the collision.
中国交通运输部称，事发时油轮装载着13.6万吨凝析油，正从伊朗运往韩国。凝析油是一种轻油，不清楚撞船事故发生后泄漏或燃烧了多少。
Members of the salvage team tried to get to the living quarters on the tanker, but they were driven back by temperatures on the burning ship of around 192 Fahrenheit (89 degrees Celsius), Xinhua said. Before sinking, the ship was at risk of exploding because of the presence of spilled oil as the fire raged, the Ministry of Transportation said.
新华社称，救援队员试图进入油轮的生活区，但被仍在燃烧的船上大约192华氏度（89摄氏度）的高温赶了回来。中国交通运输部称，油轮沉没前一直存在爆炸的风险，因为在大火肆虐前，石油已经泄漏了。
The United States Navy also sent a P-8A Poseidon airplane from Kadena Air Base on Okinawa, Japan. It searched about 3,600 square nautical miles without locating any missing sailors, the Navy said.
美国海军也从日本冲绳的嘉手纳空军基地(Kadena Air Base)派出了一架“P-8A海神”(P-8A Poseidon)飞机。美国海军称，该飞机搜索了约3600平方海里（约合12.3万平方公里）的海域，没有发现失踪船员。
The salvage team recovered the voyage data recorder, or “black box” from the bridge, before leaving the vessel less than half an hour after boarding because the wind had shifted and “thick toxic smoke” had complicated the operation, Xinhua said.
新华社报道称，救援队登上油轮不到半小时便因为风向改变和“有毒浓烟”增加了救援难度而离船，但离开前从舰桥上找到了航行数据记录仪，即“黑匣子”。
The Sanchi is owned by Bright Shipping Limited, a subsidiary of the National Iranian Tanker Company registered in Hong Kong, according to the Chinese authorities and an International Maritime Organization database.
据中国当局介绍，同时国际海事组织(International Maritime Organization)的数据库也显示，桑吉号属光辉海运有限公司(Bright Shipping Limited)所有。后者是在香港注册的伊朗国家油轮公司(National Iranian Tanker Company)的子公司。