TEHRAN — Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, vowed Saturday to work with the outside world to lift the “oppressive sanctions” crippling the Iranian economy, as he received the official backing of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a ceremony marking the start of his presidential term.
德黑兰——在周六的就职典礼上，伊朗新总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)获得了伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)的正式支持。鲁哈尼承诺，他将与外部世界合作，以期解除令伊朗经济损失惨重的“压迫性制裁”。
In an acknowledgment of the growing toll that international economic restrictions connected to Iran’s nuclear program are having on the population, both Mr. Rouhani and Ayatollah Khamenei made the economy a major theme of their remarks.
鲁哈尼总统和哈梅内伊都把经济问题作为他们讲话的重点，承认伊朗核计划引发的国际经济制裁，让国民承受了日益沉重的负担。
“People called for change and improvement in their living standards, they want to live better,” Mr. Rouhani said.
鲁哈尼说道，“民众呼吁变革，期望改善生活水准，他们想要过上更好的日子。”
But he and the ayatollah offered somewhat different solutions. Whereas Mr. Rouhani said that interactions with the world, meaning talks with Europe and potentially the United States, were a way out of the crisis, Ayatollah Khamenei, who as supreme leader has final word on all important issues, expressed pessimism that such overtures would yield fruit. “Some of our enemies do not speak with our language of wisdom,” he said, urging self-sufficiency.
但他与哈梅内伊在解决问题的途径上却存在分歧。一方面，鲁哈尼称，同外部世界进行互动（指与欧洲国家进行对话，甚至与美国可能进行的对话）是摆脱危机的出路。另一方面，作为最高领袖，对重大事项有最终决定权的哈梅内伊则对通过此类接触达成目标的前景表达了悲观看法。“有些敌对势力不愿用我们智慧的语言沟通，”哈梅内伊在敦促国民自力更生时说道。
As Mr. Rouhani takes his public oath of office on Sunday, Iran’s growing economic crisis sits atop his agenda. Sanctions have slashed oil exports and limited Iran’s ability to transfer money from abroad. The shortage has been aggravated by the profligate spending that is a legacy of the departing government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
鲁哈尼周日公开宣誓就职后，排在他日程首要位置的将是伊朗日益恶化的经济危机。因受到制裁，伊朗石油出口一落千丈，从境外转入资金也困难重重。而前任总统马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德 (Mahmoud Ahmadinejad) 政府大肆扩张开支留下的负担，更是令经济雪上又加霜。
During most of Mr. Ahmadinejad’s two four-year terms, Iran enjoyed an oil windfall, with a flow of dollars and euros that fueled huge imports on goods ranging from ice cream to Porsches.
艾哈迈迪-内贾德两届各为期四年的总统任期内，伊朗坐享石油贸易的丰收。美元和欧元的流入，支撑伊朗大批进口从冰淇淋到保时捷(Porsche)汽车的各类商品。
But now Mr. Rouhani’s aides describe Iran’s economic situation as the worst in decades. Many blame what they call Mr. Ahmadinejad’s erratic economic policies, punctuated by slashed subsidies and unbridled inflation.
而如今，鲁哈尼的幕僚则形容，伊朗经济陷入了数十年来最糟糕的困局。很多人将其归咎于前总统艾哈迈迪-内贾德乖张无度的经济政策，他任内曾大幅削减补贴，也发生过通胀失控的情况。
The signs of woe abound.
伊朗经济处境艰难的迹象可谓比比皆是。
Lacking money, Iran’s national soccer team scrapped a training trip to Portugal. Teachers in Tehran nervously awaited their wages, which were inexplicably delayed by more than a week. Officials warned recently that food and medicine imports have stalled for three weeks because of a lack of foreign currency.
因为缺钱，伊朗国家足球队放弃了赴葡萄牙训练的打算。在德黑兰，学校教师焦急地等待着已被无端拖欠超过一周的薪水。政府官员近日警告称，由于外汇紧缺，食品和药物进口已有三周陷于停顿。
While Mr. Rouhani has asked for a hundred days to review the state of the economy and devise solutions, there are some voices who now say that the only way to solve the economic ills is to come up with a political settlement of Iran’s nuclear dispute. Those voices were barely heard during Mr. Ahmadinejad’s tenure.
尽管鲁哈尼总统已提出，用100天时间研究经济状况并制定应对方案，仍有不少人表达这样的观点：应对诸多经济问题，唯一出路是寻求伊朗核争端的政治解决。在艾哈迈迪-内贾德任内，几乎听不到这种声音。
“Rouhani’s economic success depends on the determination of Iran’s other leaders to find a solution for the nuclear support,” an economics professor, Mohsen Renani of the University of Isfahan, told the Web site Neco News.
“鲁哈尼在经济上能否成功，取决于伊朗其他的政治领袖能否下定决心，共同为核计划寻求支持。”伊斯法罕大学(University of Isfahan)经济学教授莫赫森·雷纳尼(Mohsen Renani)对新闻网站Neco News表示。
In another sign of dissatisfaction over the consequences of Iran’s nuclear stance, an influential political professor publicly expressed doubt recently over the benefits of the nuclear program. “Why are we producing radioisotopes when we can import them much cheaper?” the professor, Sadegh Zibakalam of Tehran University, told the reformist weekly Aseman. “Why should we maintain a nuclear program when we have no economic justification?”
对伊朗坚持核立场的后果产生的不满，从另一位颇具影响力的政治学教授近日的发言可见一斑，他公开对核计划的收益表达了质疑。德黑兰大学(Tehran University)教授萨戴格·齐巴卡兰(Sadegh Zibakalam)对改革派刊物《天空周刊》(Aseman)说，“既然进口放射性同位素的成本更低，我们为什么非要自己制取？既然没有经济上的理由，我们为什么还要维持核计划？”
While those voices may have grown louder, they by no means represent the official position of Iran’s ruling establishment, which maintains that self-sufficiency in nuclear energy is nonnegotiable.
尽管此类意见有抬头之势，但它绝不代表伊朗权力集团的观点。他们坚持核能必须自给自足的立场，拒绝任何讨价还价余地。
“Whatever happens, our nuclear stances will not change nor waver,” Mohammad Taghi Rahbar, a former member of Parliament and an influential Friday Prayer leader in Isfahan, said in an interview. “Our supreme leader, the nation and all officials from all factions believe this is our inalienable right, so we will not retreat at all.”
“无论发生什么，我们在核问题上的立场都不会改变，也不会动摇，”伊朗前国会议员、伊斯法罕市很受拥戴的周五礼拜领导者穆罕默德·塔基·拉赫巴尔(Mohammad Taghi Rahbar)在接受采访时称。“我们的最高领袖、全国人民、还有各个政治派别的官员都坚信，这是我们不可剥夺的权利。因此，我们绝不言退。”
But ignoring the increasing economic pressures, while promising a better future — a strategy favored by Iran’s leaders over the past years — is proving increasingly complicated.
然而，一方面对步步紧逼的经济压力视而不见，另一方面又许诺美好未来，这种伊朗政治领袖多年来屡试不爽的手法，现在却越来越难以为继。
Less oil money is coming in because of the sanctions. Iran’s largest customer, China, has not been paying for oil purchases with cash, instead bartering with goods and equipment at unfavorable prices, the news agency Tasmin reported last Sunday, quoting Amir Jafarpour, the manager of the Oil Ministry’s transportation and fuel headquarters.
因为经济制裁，石油销售收入出现下降。Tasmin通讯社周日报道中援引伊朗石油部运输和燃油总部经理阿米尔·贾法普尔(Amir Jafarpour)的话说，伊朗最大的客户中国已经不再支付现金购买石油，而是以对伊朗不利的价格，用物资和设备进行易货贸易。
“Instead of getting our money we have been forced to buy 315 Chinese-made subway coaches at higher prices,” he said, complaining that the Chinese were also pocketing the interest at Iranian oil bank accounts in China.
“我们售油无法收取现金，而是被迫以高昂的代价换取315节中国产的地铁车厢，”贾法普尔说。他同时指责中国方面从伊朗石油部门设在该国的银行账户里挪用了利息。
The sanctions situation could become far more onerous under legislation passed Wednesday by the United States House of Representatives, which would basically coerce Iran’s remaining oil customers to find other suppliers. The legislation, which the Senate will consider next month, amounts to a threatened embargo on Iran’s oil, its most important export.
周三美国众议院通过的法案则有可能让制裁更为严厉。该法案一旦实施，将迫使还在从伊朗购买石油的客户另寻卖家。这个法案下个月将送交参议院审议，相当于对伊朗的石油实施禁运，石油是伊朗最重要的出口商品。
Mr. Ahmadinejad defended his policies in a meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei last week, saying that Iranians had never been happier and that his government had successfully changed the way ballooning state subsidies were distributed by increasing prices of staples and giving direct cash handouts of $13 each to 60 million people each month.
上周，艾哈迈迪-内贾德还在与哈梅内伊的会谈上为自己的政策辩护。他说，伊朗人民从来没有像现在这样幸福过，他治下的政府也通过提高必需品价格和向6000万民众每月直接派发等值13美元现金的方式，成功地改善了 国家补贴大幅膨胀的分配状况。
But as members of Mr. Rouhani’s team prepare to take over, they say they are shocked with what they are finding as they go through the books. “The economic situation is much worse from what we expected,” Akbar Torkan, a member of Mr. Rouhani’s inner circle, told Aseman.
但在准备政府交接的时候，鲁哈尼的团队发现在查阅账目时得出的结论让他们大为震惊。“经济形势比我们预想的要糟糕得多，”与鲁哈尼总统关系密切的圈内人士阿克巴·托尔坎(Akbar Torkan)对《天空周刊》说道。
Mr. Rouhani has criticized Mr. Ahmadinejad’s economic policies, saying that almost no jobs had been created during his two terms and that millions of Iranians could face unemployment in coming years.
鲁哈尼曾批评艾哈迈迪-内贾德的经济政策，称他两届任期内几乎没有新增就业岗位，导致接下来几年内，数以百万计的伊朗人恐将面临失业。
“We have to make the effort to reconstruct this economical wreck,” Morteza Bank, a former minister who now advises Mr. Rouhani, told the semiofficial Iranian Labour News Agency on Saturday.
“我们必须下大力气，在这片经济废墟上重整旗鼓，”前任政府部长，现任鲁哈尼幕僚的莫尔特扎·班克(Morteza Bank)周六对半官方媒体伊朗劳动新闻社(Iranian Labour News Agency)表示。
Those close to Mr. Rouhani say he will do what he can to turn the economy around. He is now asking Parliament to alter the coming budget to prevent a deficit, which means his cabinet will take unpopular measures like cutting the cash payments and increasing gasoline prices.
接近鲁哈尼的人士称，他将尽其所能扭转经济颓势。他最近正向国会提议修正下一期预算以避免赤字，这意味着他的内阁将会采取一些不受欢迎的举措，比如降低现金补贴额度和提高汽油价格。
Members of Mr. Rouhani’s inner circle have hewed to the official line that the sanctions and economic woes will not force any nuclear concessions. “First of all we are looking for seriousness from the other side,” said an associate of Mr. Rouhani’s. “Unless we see tangible, serious, active reach-out, we will not be persuaded to spin around empty gestures,” the associate said, asking to remain anonymous upon Mr. Rouhani’s request.
贴近鲁哈尼的人士均严守官方路线：任何外部制裁和经济困境都不能逼迫伊朗在核问题上让步。“我们首先要看到对方拿出认真的态度，”鲁哈尼的一名幕僚说道。“我们要看见切实、认真、积极的沟通行动，我们不会被空泛的表态牵着鼻子走。”应鲁哈尼的要求，这名官员要求保持匿名。