Iran has built a previously undisclosed launching site and space center near the northeastern city of Shahrud that could theoretically be used for testing ballistic missiles, according to satellite imagery reported on Thursday by IHS Jane’s, an authoritative weapons research publication based in London.
据简氏信息集团(IHS Jane’s)发布的报告，伊朗已经在东北部城市沙赫鲁德附近建立了一座发射场及航天中心，理论上，这个先前未被披露的发射场可以被用于试射弹道导弹。总部位于伦敦的简氏信息集团是一家权威的武器研究与出版机构。
In a report posted on its Web site, Jane’s said its analysis of the satellite imagery showed that the new site, about 220 miles east of Tehran near the Caspian Sea, had been developed over the past three years and would be one of three launching sites in Iran’s space program.
简氏集团在自己的网站上公布了一份报告，报告称对卫星的图像分析显示，这个位于里海附近、在德黑兰以东大约220英里（约合350公里）处的新发射场是在过去三年中建成的，将会成为伊朗航天计划的三大发射场之一。
Iranian officials have said they are intent on developing rockets capable of sending astronauts into space, and have alluded to the construction of a new site as part of that goal, but had never specified its location.
伊朗官员曾表示，他们决心要研发载人航天火箭，并曾提到建造新发射场是上述目标的一部分，但他们从未具体说明新发射场的位置。
The Jane’s report was likely to be viewed with concern by Western officials and Israel. They have expressed suspicions that Iran’s ballistic missile development is part of what they view as the country’s ambition to build nuclear weapons that can be mounted on missile warheads. Iran has denied such ambitions.
简氏的报告可能会引起西方官员及以色列的关切。他们曾表示，怀疑伊朗有野心制造能够装载到导弹弹头中的核武器，而研发弹道导弹的计划就是其中的一个组成部分。伊朗对此予以否认。
The report said the Shahrud site had a launching tower approximately 70 feet tall, identical to one at a site near the city of Semnan, which is about 150 miles east of Tehran. It said both sites might be used to launch the Simorgh rocket, which Iran introduced in 2010 as a way to carry orbital satellites into space, or even bigger rockets.
报告称，沙赫鲁德发射场有一个将近70英尺（约合21米）高的发射塔，与塞姆南市附近一座发射场的发射塔一样高。塞姆南位于德黑兰东部约150英里处。报告称，两个发射场都可能用于发射伊朗于2010年展示的，用于携带轨道卫星进入太空的“神鸟”(Simorgh)火箭，或者更大的火箭。
Jane’s said Iran’s development of the new site, despite the rising economic pressures because of Western sanctions, might be interpreted by some analysts as evidence that the Iranian military wants multiple locations capable of firing ballistic missiles as part of a deterrent strategy against attack. But the report also expressed strong skepticism of such an interpretation.
简氏的报告称，尽管西方制裁给伊朗带来的经济压力不断加大，但伊朗还是建造了新发射场，一些分析人士可能会认为，这种举动表明伊朗军方希望建立多个能够发射弹道导弹的场所，以此作为吓阻攻击的威慑战略的一部分。但简氏的报告对此种解读表示了强烈怀疑。
More likely, the report said, is that the multiple launching sites “reflect the scale of Iran’s ambitious space program.” Iran took a significant step toward manned spaceflight in January, when it put a monkey into space.
报告称，建造多个发射场更可能“反映了伊朗雄心勃勃的航天计划规模很大”。伊朗于今年1月将一只猴子送上太空，在载人航天方面迈出了重要一步。