BAGHDAD — Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said Thursday night that he had agreed to relinquish power, a move that came after days of crisis in which his deployment of extra security forces around the capital had raised worries of a military coup.
巴格达——本周四晚上，伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)表示，他同意放弃权力；之前他在首都周围增派安全部队，引发了人们对军事政变的担忧，这一危机已经持续数天。
Mr. Maliki’s decision held out the prospect of a peaceful transition of power, based on democratic elections and without the guiding hand of American military forces, which would be a first in modern Iraq’s troubled history of kings, coups and dictatorships.
马利基的这个决定，使得伊拉克政权有望在没有美国军事力量指引的情况下，在民主选举的基础上和平过渡。这将成为伊拉克现代历史上的第一次——之前在这个饱经磨难的国家，国王、政变和独裁统治轮流登场。
His decision to step aside came after heavy pressure from the United States, which has deployed warplanes in Iraq to target Sunni Islamist militants and suggested that more military support would be forthcoming if Mr. Maliki was removed from power. Iran also played a decisive role in convincing Mr. Maliki that he could not stay in power.
在美国施以重压之后，马利基决定放弃权力；美国已经在伊拉克部署战机，打击逊尼派伊斯兰武装分子，并表示如果马利基下台的话，将会提供更多的军事支援。伊朗也在说服马利基放弃权力的过程中起到了关键作用。
Mr. Maliki, 64, agreed to end his legal challenge to the nomination of his replacement, Haider al-Abadi, 62, a member of Mr. Maliki’s own Dawa Party, who was chosen Monday by Iraq’s president.
马利基已经同意，不再对其继任者海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)发起法律挑战；62岁的阿巴迪和64岁的马利基同为达瓦党(Dawa Party)成员，本周一他获得了伊拉克总统的提名。
On state television, standing next to Mr. Abadi and other party leaders and reading from a prepared text, Mr. Maliki said, “I announce before you today, to facilitate the political process and to form a new government, that I withdraw my candidacy in favor of the brother Dr. Haider al-Abadi, and all that goes with that in order to preserve the high interests of the country.”
在国家电视台上，马利基站在阿巴迪和其他党派领导人旁边宣读讲稿。他说：“今天我向大家宣布，为了推动政治进程，组建新的政府，我撤回了自己的候选资格，以支持海德尔·阿巴迪兄弟，与之相关的所有一切都是为了维护国家的最高利益。”
During the 12-minute speech, Mr. Maliki portrayed himself as a loyal leader who had used all the means at his disposal to defend Iraq from terrorism and what he characterized as internationally backed plots to weaken and divide his government.
在这个12分钟的演讲中，马利基把自己描绘成一名忠实领导者，使用了一切可能的手段来保护伊拉克，使其免受恐怖主义和阴谋的危害。他表示这种阴谋受到了一部分国际社会的支持，旨在削弱和分裂他的政府。
Now that Mr. Maliki is leaving, the crucial question, given Iraq’s many divisions, is if Mr. Abadi, a Shiite like Mr. Maliki, can rise above sectarianism and be a truly national figure. He will try to stitch together a national unity government that establishes a new political bargain between Iraq’s three main communities — the majority Shiites and the minority Sunnis and Kurds. The United States has insisted on a political solution so Iraq’s leaders can present a united front against the onslaught by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which has seized control of large portions of northern and western Iraq.
既然马利基会下台，而伊拉克又处在严重的分裂之中，关键问题就成为了：和马利基同属什叶派的阿巴迪，能否超越宗派主义，真正产生全国性的影响。他将在伊拉克的三个主要群体之间进行政治协商——占多数的什叶派，以及占少数的逊尼派和库尔德人——试图组成一个民族团结的政府。美国一直坚持政治性的解决方案，以便伊拉克领导人可以组成统一战线，抵御伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的猛攻；ISIS已经占领了伊拉克北部和西部的大片地区。
Many of the Sunnis and Kurds had become so disenchanted with Mr. Maliki that they were willing to accept any new Shiite leader. Still, Mr. Abadi will have to make real concessions if he is going to convince Sunnis and Kurds to commit to the political process in Baghdad. Mr. Abadi has been a member of Parliament, and after the American invasion he was briefly communications minister.
很多逊尼派人士和库尔德人对马利基彻底失望，以至于愿意接受任何新的什叶派领导人。不过，如果阿巴迪想说服逊尼派和库尔德人致力于巴格达政治进程，他也必须做出一些真正的让步。阿巴迪一直都是议会成员，在美国入侵后，他曾担任过很短一段时间的通信部长。
Mr. Maliki’s decision came after days of negotiations with his former Shiite allies, who urged him to give up in the face of growing international opposition to his rule and the sense among most Iraqi leaders that his removal was necessary to bring the country together as it fights against a growing insurgency led by ISIS.
马利基做出这个决定的几天之前，曾与其什叶派前盟友进行谈判，他们劝他放弃权力，因为国际社会日益反对他的统治，而且大多数伊拉克领导人都认为，要让该国团结一致，对抗正在恶化的ISIS叛乱活动，他的下台是必要之举。
Officials said that in days of negotiations over his future, Mr. Maliki was given assurances — although not in a formal agreement — that he would be protected from prosecution. He is also expected to take a post in a new government, and while the position of vice president has been discussed, the matter has not been settled. Mr. Maliki also was assured that members of his bloc — which won the most seats in April’s national elections — would be given their fair share of ministries and other positions.
官员说，他们在这几天的谈判中讨论了马利基的将来，向马利基保证说会让他免受起诉——虽然没有正式协议。他还有望在新政府中担任一个职位，虽然讨论过是否让他担任副总统，但却没有敲定。他们还向马利基保证，其政党集团成员将会获得数量合理的部长职位和其他职位；马利基的政党集团在今年4月的全国大选中赢得了大多数席位。
In his speech, Mr. Maliki said that he sought no particular position, but that he would remain “a fighting soldier defending Iraq and its people.”
马利基在讲话中表示，他不会谋求特定职位，但他仍然会“为保卫国家和民众而战斗”。
In addition to the Americas and Iranians, another deciding factor in Mr. Maliki’s decision was opposition to his rule by Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the most important Shiite cleric in the world, who lives in the holy city of Najaf, in southern Iraq. By tradition Iraq’s Shiite clerics keep a distance from politics, but that Ayatollah Sistani and other clerics intervened in the efforts to remove Mr. Maliki underscored the gravity of the crisis.
马利基之所以决定下台，除了美国人和伊朗人施压之外，还有另一个关键因素：住在伊拉克南部圣城纳杰夫的全球什叶派最高宗教领袖大阿亚图拉阿里·西斯塔尼(Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani)反对他的统治。伊拉克什叶派神职人员历来不太过问政事，但阿亚图拉西斯塔尼和其他神职人员对马利基下台一事进行干预，突显了这次危机的严重性。
For weeks at Friday Prayer, representatives of the clerics have made veiled calls for political change. Then, this week, the ayatollah reportedly sent a handwritten letter to Mr. Maliki that made a more direct call for him to leave power.
数周以来，神职人员的代表都在主麻日聚礼(Friday Prayer)中含蓄地呼吁政治变化。本周，据说阿亚图拉给马利基发送了一份亲笔书信，更加直白地敦促他下台。
The unexpected timing of the announcement — late Thursday night — was partly aimed at avoiding another Friday of calls from the mosques for his departure, said one Shiite official from Mr. Maliki’s bloc, called State of Law, who spoke anonymously because of the sensitivities of the discussions. “He lost everyone, even his closest aides,” the official said. “He wanted to save face.”
马利基在周四夜间宣布下台，之所以选择这个出人意料的时间，部分是为了避免清真寺再次呼吁他下台，马利基领导的法治国家联盟(State of Law)的一个什叶派官员说；鉴于事情的敏感性，该官员不愿具名。“他已经众叛亲离，甚至连他最亲密的助手也放弃了他，”这名官员说。“他想挽回面子。”