WASHINGTON — The crews of two small Navy boats were picked up by the Iranian authorities on Tuesday after commanders lost contact with the vessels, and Pentagon officials said that Iran had agreed to return the sailors soon.
华盛顿——本周二，美国海军两艘小型舰艇与指挥官失去了联系之后，船员被伊朗当局接走，五角大楼官员说，伊朗已同意尽快交还船员。
An official said that the boats appeared to have drifted into Iranian territorial waters after one of them experienced mechanical problems. The boats were moving between Kuwait and Bahrain when contact was lost late in the afternoon, a Defense Department official said.
一位官员说，在其中一艘船出现机械问题之后，两船似乎漂入了伊朗领海。国防部官员说，船只是在下午较晚的时候失去联系的，当时它们正在科威特和巴林之间航行。
It was unclear how contact had been lost, and Navy officials in Washington said they were trying to determine what had happened. One official said the two vessels had failed to make a scheduled rendezvous with a larger ship to refuel.
目前还不清楚它们如何失去了联系。华盛顿的海军官员表示，他们正在试图确定发生了什么事情。一名官员说，这两艘船未能赶到预定的集合地点，从一艘较大的船只那里获得油料补给。
Secretary of State John Kerry, an official said, called his Iranian counterpart, with whom he spent months negotiating a nuclear accord. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the issue.
一位官员表示，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和伊朗外长通了电话，之前他们曾进行过数月之久的核协议谈判。这位官员不愿具名，因为他没有获得对这个问题公开发言的许可。
The semifofficial Fars news agency in Iran said that the boats had illegally traveled more than a mile into Iranian territorial waters near Farsi Island, in the Persian Gulf. It said that forces of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Navy had confiscated GPS equipment, which would “prove that the American ships where ‘snooping’ around in Iranian waters.”
伊朗半官方的法尔斯通讯社(Fars News Agency)报道，两艘船在波斯湾法西岛附近非法航行，进入伊朗领海逾一英里，伊斯兰革命卫队海军部队已经没收了两艘船的GPS设备，它们可以“证明美国军舰在那里‘窥探‘周围的伊朗水域。”
Tabnak, a semiofficial Iranian website, said that 10 American service members had been arrested, but that Iran had assured the United States they would be released immediately.
伊朗半官方网站Tabnak称，有10名美国军人遭到逮捕，但伊朗已向美国保证将立即释放他们。
A senior military official said he expected the sailors to remain held overnight and be released on Wednesday. The official said that military and diplomatic contacts with the Iranians had been professional, which he credited to the stepped-up engagement over the nuclear accord.
一位高级军事官员说，他预计船员们会被扣押一晚，将在本周三获释。这名官员表示，他们与伊朗人之间的军事和外交接触非常专业，他认为这是核协议谈判增进了双方接触的缘故。
In 2007, the Revolutionary Guards Navy captured 15 British military personnel and held them for 13 days, making a point of protecting its sea borders. A year later, the British Navy released a report saying that its vessels had been in an area with disputed borders between Iran and Iraq.
2007年，伊朗革命卫队海军抓获15名英国军事人员，将他们扣押了13天，表明了其保卫海上边界的立场。一年后，英国海军公布的一份报告称，其船只当时位于伊朗和伊拉克之间有争议的边界海域。
Benjamin J. Rhodes, the American deputy national security adviser, acknowledged the episode on Tuesday without providing any details. He said the United States was trying to ensure the safe return of the service members involved.
美国副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)本周二承认发生了这起事件，但没有提供任何细节。他说，美国正在设法让被扣人员安全返回。
“We were aware of circumstances surrounding a patrol in the Persian Gulf,” Mr. Rhodes said. “We are working to resolve the situation such that, obviously, any U.S. personnel are returned to their normal deployment.
“我们知道波斯湾巡逻发生的事情，”罗兹说。“我们正在努力解决问题，很明显，所有美国人员都会回到正常部署状态。”
The Navy’s Fifth Fleet maintains a presence in the Persian Gulf, including an aircraft carrier, and lately has had several episodes with Iran. Two weeks ago, the Iranian Navy harassed an American carrier and a French frigate in the Strait of Hormuz, launching rockets that passed within 1,500 yards of the United States aircraft carrier Harry S. Truman.
美国海军第五舰队保持着在波斯湾的军事存在，其中包括一艘航空母舰；他们和伊朗近来已经发生了几起事件。两周前，伊朗海军在霍尔木兹海峡对一艘美国运载舰和一艘法国护卫舰进行骚扰，其发射的火箭经过美国航母哈里·S·杜鲁门号(Harry S. Truman)时距离不到1500码。