TEHRAN — Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, on Tuesday used his first news conference to call for serious negotiations to solve the decade-long dispute over the country’s nuclear program and he repeatedly suggested openness to direct talks with the United States, an idea that until recently had been unthinkable for many years.
德黑兰——周二，伊朗新任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)利用自己的首次新闻发布会呼吁开展认真的谈判，以便解决该国核计划引起的长达十年的争议，并且多次暗示，可以直接同美国对话，这一观点在过去多年里一直是不可想象的，直到最近才有所改变。
At the same time, Mr. Rouhani said that Americans needed to take the first step in the stalled nuclear negotiations, and he would not specify what his country would be prepared to do, if anything, in order to make those negotiations advance. While the tone of Mr. Rouhani’s remarks appeared more accommodating than that of his predecessor, he broke no new ground on Iran’s position regarding the nuclear dispute, the most serious international issue confronting the country.
与此同时，鲁哈尼表示，美国人必须在停滞不前的核谈判中迈出第一步，而且他不会具体说明，即使他的国家打算为为推进谈判而努力，又将做出何种努力。尽管鲁哈尼这番言论的语气似乎比其前任更有商量余地，但他并没有为伊朗对核争议所持立场带来新的突破。核争议是该国面临的最严重的国际问题。
“As the president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I state that the Islamic republic system is very seriously determined to solve the nuclear issue. It will defend its people’s rights and at the same time will remove the concerns of the other party,” Mr. Rouhani said.
“作为伊朗伊斯兰共和国的总统，我声明，伊斯兰共和制度对解决核问题抱有非常坚定的决心。它将捍卫人民的权力，同时消除对方的顾虑，”鲁哈尼说。
“What matters to us is a practical response from the U.S. government, not statements,” Mr. Rouhani said. “If we feel that the Americans are truly serious about resolving problems. Iran is serious in its will to resolve problems and dismiss worries. If they are serious too, naturally things will go ahead and we will see practical results.”
“对我们而言，重要的是美国政府的实际反应，而不是它的声明，”鲁哈尼说，“前提是我们觉得美国确实是认真地想要解决问题。伊朗认真地希望解决问题并消除疑虑，如果他们也很认真，事情自然会往前发展，我们也将看到实际成果。”
Numerous times during the question-and-answer session, Mr. Rouhani made references to unspecified “warmongering pressure groups” which he accused of confusing the White House at the behest of an unidentified foreign country.
在问答环节，鲁哈尼多次不点名地提到了“一些好战的压力集团”，谴责它们在某个同样没点名的外国授意下搅乱了白宫的想法。
Mr. Rouhani apparently was referring to pro-Israel advocates of strong sanctions against Iran that have publicly praised Congress in recent days for advancing legislation that would greatly intensify the economic consequences on Iran unless it halts uranium enrichment.
鲁哈尼显然说的是支持以色列的倡导人士，他们主张对伊朗实施严厉制裁，并在最近几天公开赞扬国会推进了相关立法。除非伊朗停止铀浓缩，否则该立法将大大加强制裁对伊朗造成的经济后果。
Israel’s government, which regards Iran as an existential threat, has accused the Iranians of working toward production of a nuclear weapon, an accusation they have repeatedly denied. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has described Mr. Rouhani as a “wolf in sheep’s clothing” and has asserted that Mr. Rouhani’s election on June 14 did not portend a policy change.
视伊朗为生存威胁的以色列政府谴责伊朗发展核武器，伊朗已多次否认了这一指责。以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)称鲁哈尼是一只“披着羊皮的狼”，还断言鲁哈尼6月14的当选不会带来政策上的改变。
Mr. Rouhani never made any explicit reference to Israel at his news conference. But he said the interests of “one foreign country” had been imposed on Congress, and that “even the interests of the U.S. are not considered in such actions.”
在新闻发布会上，鲁哈尼从未明确提到以色列。但他说，“某个外国”的利益被强加给了美国国会，而且“这种行为甚至连美国的利益都没有考虑”。
Mr. Rouhani also said: “We advise that the White House come out of its current confusion, see the realities and make decisions based on them.”
鲁哈尼说：“我们建议白宫走出当前的困惑，看清现实，并根据现实做出决策。”
In Washington, the State Department responded to Mr. Rouhani’s remarks by reiterating its own position — that Iran is in violation of Security Council resolutions requesting a halt to the uranium enrichment.
在华盛顿，国务院(State Department)对鲁哈尼的言论进行了回应，重申了美国的立场，也就是说，伊朗违反了联合国安理会(Security Council)要求其停止铀浓缩计划的决议。
“We’ve also expressed an openness to having direct discussions with Iran,” a State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, told reporters at a regular daily news briefing. “But the ball is in their court. We still feel that they need to take steps to abide by their international obligations, and we’re not at that point.”
“我们也已经表示，愿意与伊朗进行直接对话，”国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)在每日例行发布会上说。“但是，现在轮到伊朗行动了。我们依然认为，需要采取行动履行国际义务是他们，而不是我们。”
Mr. Rouhani’s repeated mention of direct negotiations with the United States made clear that Iran is no longer ideologically opposed to such talks, ending a period of more than three decades in which the subject was a political taboo.
鲁哈尼多次提到与美国进行直接谈判，由此表明伊朗在思想上不再反对此类对话，也标志着一个时期的结束——30多年来，与美国直接谈判一直是一个政治禁忌。
On Saturday Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, stated that he was not opposed to talks over certain issues, but warned Mr. Rouhani that some of Iran’s enemies “do not speak our language of wisdom.”
周六，伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)表示，他不反对就特定问题开展此类对话，但他警告鲁哈尼，伊朗的一些敌人“并不像我们一样明智”。
The new president’s choice for foreign minister, Javad Zarif, said in a statement to Parliament that managing relations with the United States would be one of his tasks. Mr. Zarif was educated in the United States, where he spent many years, and is widely seen as Mr. Rouhani’s main adviser on foreign policy. His confirmation is expected.
新总统提名的外交部长贾瓦德·扎里夫(Javad Zarif)在给议会的一份声明中表示，处理与美国的关系将会是他的任务之一。扎里夫曾在美国接受教育，在美国待了很多年，并且被广泛视为鲁哈尼外交政策方面的主要顾问。他的提名有望获得批准。
Mr. Rouhani, who presents himself as a moderate within Iran’s political system, has been involved in most of Iran’s important foreign policy dossiers. He faces enormous problems, many related to the economy’s weakness and the international sanctions.
在伊朗政治体系中以温和派形象示人的鲁哈尼参与了伊朗大多数重要外交政策的制定。他面临大量问题，很多问题都与经济疲软及国际制裁有关。
But he gave no indication at the news conference that the uranium enrichment would be compromised.
但他在新闻发布会上没有表示，伊朗会在铀浓缩计划上进行妥协。
One Iranian journalist, from the reformist Etemad newspaper, asked how Mr. Rouhani would handle the nuclear issue compared with his predecessors, arguing that the enrichment centrifuges were not worth the economic cost. Mr. Rouhani countered that the program had strong popular domestic support.
改革派报纸《国民信息报》(Etemad)的一名伊朗记者问道，与前任总统相比，鲁哈尼会如何处理核问题。这名记者还表示，伊朗不值得为铀浓缩离心机付出这样的经济代价。鲁哈尼反驳称，该项目在国内获得了有力的普遍支持。