BAGHDAD — Iraqi lawmakers approved a new power-sharing government led by Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi late Monday. But they left the two most divisive security posts unfilled, potentially extending a contentious debate even as American officials prepared a new campaign of military support for the Baghdad administration.
巴格达——周一夜里，伊拉克议会批准了由总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)领导的新一届权力分享政府成立，但分歧最严重的两个安全事务内阁职位依然空缺。在美国官员正在筹备支持巴格达政府的新军事行动之际，这可能会加深辩论的争议性。
Mr. Abadi, a Shiite politician, has promised to preside over a more inclusive government that would set out to heal deep rifts with Iraq’s Sunni and Kurdish populations even as it struggles to beat back a catastrophic invasion by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
什叶派政界人物阿巴迪承诺将领导一个更包容的政府，新政府将在竭力击退伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的灾难性攻势的同时，着手弥合与伊拉克逊尼派及库尔德人之间的深刻分歧。
“The country is exposed to an aggressive offensive, and the people are waiting for us all; we should not be arguing about names and positions,” Mr. Abadi said in his first official speech, urging sacrifice by Iraq’s political class. “This is to serve the country and the people.”
“我们国家正面临着步步紧逼的攻击，民众正在等待着我们所有人；我们不应为了头衔和职位争吵，”阿巴迪在首次发表正式讲话时说。他敦促伊拉克政界做出牺牲。“这将有利于国家和民众。”
Mr. Abadi said he would initially run the Defense and Interior Ministries himself, and gave lawmakers a week to agree on new ministers before filling the posts with his own choices.
阿巴迪称自己将暂时管理国防部和内政部，给议会一周时间在新部长人选上达成一致，若仍无结果，他将自行任命掌管这两个部门的人选。
President Obama has called a unity government a crucial prerequisite for a new and extended American military offensive against ISIS, which he is expected to detail in a speech on Wednesday. On Monday, the president telephoned Mr. Abadi to congratulate him on forming what he characterized as a “broad-based government,” and said the United States would continue building a coalition to confront ISIS, according to a White House account of the call.
美国总统奥巴马称，若要美国扩大对ISIS的军事攻势，伊拉克成立团结政府是一个至关重要的前提条件。奥巴马计划在周三发表讲话，详细介绍新一轮的美军攻势。根据白宫通话记录，奥巴马周一致电阿巴迪，祝贺对方组建了一个“基础广泛的政府”，并称美国将继续打造对抗ISIS的联盟。
Mr. Abadi, the White House said, told the president that he would work with “all communities in Iraq.”
白宫称，阿巴迪告诉奥巴马，他将继续与“伊拉克所有团体合作”。
Secretary of State John Kerry also praised the new government and said he would travel to the Middle East on Tuesday to help forge a coalition against ISIS.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)也对新一届伊拉克政府表示赞扬，并称他将于周二前往中东，协助建立一个对抗ISIS的联盟。
But even as lawmakers were sworn in, there was deep skepticism among Iraqis, especially Sunni Arabs who felt marginalized and abused by the last government, led by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who will stay on in the new government in one of Iraq’s three largely ceremonial vice president posts.
尽管新政府已宣誓就职，但伊拉克民众中间质疑情绪颇为深厚，尤其是那些觉得遭到了前总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)领导的上一届政府排斥和虐待的逊尼派阿拉伯人。马利基将依然留在新政府中，担任副总统。伊拉克设有三个副总统职位，在很大程度上是礼仪性的。
As Iraqi cities fell to ISIS this summer and the Iraqi military crumbled, some Sunnis chose to support the militants rather than fight for a government they loathed.
随着伊拉克多座城镇在今夏落入ISIS之手，而伊拉克军队节节败退，部分逊尼派选择支持武装分子，而不是为他们憎恶的政府而战。
The government, in turn, has done little to alleviate grievances, continuing practices that include indiscriminate shelling of Sunni areas and dropping barrel bombs from warplanes, according to human rights groups.
人权组织称，政府在缓解民怨方面也几乎没什么作为，持续采取不加区别地轰炸逊尼派地区、用战斗机投掷油桶炸弹等做法。
“We were hoping we would see a technocrat government where we would be listened to, but it did not happen,” said Sheikh Mohammad al-Bajari, whose fighters in Falluja have allied themselves with ISIS. “These decisions will take us into the wilderness.”
“我们本来希望会看到一个由技术官员组成的政府，会聆听我们的声音，但事实并不是这样，”谢赫·穆罕默德·巴贾里(Sheikh Mohammad al-Bajari)说。“这些决策会把我们推向边缘。”巴贾里手下位于费卢杰的武装人员已同ISIS结盟。
After a long and often heated debate on Monday, the government in Iraq’s Kurdish autonomous region gave approval to Mr. Abadi’s cabinet, but with conditions that Kurdish leaders said had to be resolved within three months. They include salaries, equipment and weaponry for the Kurdish pesh merga forces, resolving disputed territories outlined in the Iraqi Constitution, and coming to an agreement over oil and gas issues, including the export of oil from the Kurdish region.
周一，在经过漫长而时而激烈的争论之后，伊拉克库尔德自治区政府最后认可了阿巴迪的内阁，但是作为条件，库尔德领导人称有些问题必须在三个月内解决。其中包括处理库尔德敢死军的报酬、设备和武器装备问题，解决伊拉克宪法列出的领土争端，以及就油气问题达成协议，包括从库尔德地区出口石油。
The Kurdish government also demanded that its budget, withheld by the Iraqi government for months, be restored.
库尔德政府还要求伊拉克政府恢复划拨克扣了数月之久的预算。
“If the demands are not met, we will decide to withdraw in the interest of the people,” said Fuad Hussein, the chief of staff to Massoud Barzani, the Kurdish region’s president.
库尔德自治区主席马苏德·巴尔扎尼(Masoud Barzani)的幕僚长福阿德·侯赛因(Fuad Hussein)表示，“如果这些要求得不到满足，为了民众的利益，我们将决定撤销支持。”
With the advent of a new administration, all eyes were on Mr. Abadi as he tried to answer the voices of skepticism: urging Sunni Arabs to fight alongside the government, keeping Kurds from declaring their own country, while also convincing a cynical, exhausted public that the government was better suited to Iraq’s challenges than its predecessors.
在新政府成立之际，所有目光都集中到了阿巴迪身上。他此时正试图回应一些质疑：敦促逊尼派阿拉伯人与政府并肩作战、避免库尔德人宣布成立自己的国家，同时还要让充满怀疑且疲惫不堪的公众相信，与之前的政府相比，现在的政府能更好地应对伊拉克面临的种种挑战。
That was a hard sell, though, as several familiar faces emerged in the new cabinet, suggesting a preservation of the corroded political order that rose during the long American occupation in Iraq, rather than an attempt to lend the country new vigor.
不过，这种努力难以服众，因为新内阁中出现了几张人们熟悉的面孔，说明它保留了美国对伊长期占领期间所产生的那种腐化的政治秩序，而不是要给伊拉克注入新的活力。
Ibrahim Jaafari, a former prime minister, was named foreign minister, and Adel Abdul Mahdi, a former vice president, was selected as the oil minister.
伊拉克前总理易卜拉欣·贾法里(Ibrahim al-Jaafari)被任命为外交部长，而前副总统阿德尔·阿卜杜勒·迈赫迪(Adel Abdul Mahdi)则当选石油部长。
Mr. Maliki and two of his powerful political rivals — Ayad Allawi, a former prime minister, and the former Parliament speaker, Osama al-Nujaifi — were chosen as the vice presidents. Some analysts speculated that Mr. Abadi reasoned it was safer to keep prominent political figures inside the government rather than risk the possibility they would make trouble from the margins.
马利基和他的两位强大的政治对手——前总理阿亚德·阿拉维(Ayad Allawi)和前议长乌萨马·努杰菲(Osama al-Nujaifi)——被选为副总统。有分析人士推测，阿巴迪认为，让重要政治人物继续在政府任职，要比冒险让他们在外围制造麻烦更加稳妥。
The stormy parliamentary session on Monday came amid new signs that ISIS was focusing its efforts on punishing Sunni tribes for resisting the group’s rule.
在周一波澜起伏的议会会议召开之时，有新的迹象表明，ISIS正在集中力量惩罚那些抵抗其统治的逊尼派部落。
Early Monday, ISIS forces attacked Sunni tribal fighters north of Baghdad, killing at least 17 people. Using an explosive-laden Humvee, apparently captured from the Iraqi Army, the militants assaulted an entrance to the town of Dhuluiya, according to local tribal leaders.
周一早些时候，ISIS武装袭击了巴格达以北的逊尼派部落武装人员，造成至少17人死亡。当地部落领袖称，武装分子用装满炸药的军用悍马——明显是从伊拉克军队缴获的——袭击了祖卢耶镇的一处入口。