BAGHDAD — The last Iraqi security forces fled the provincial capital of Ramadi on Sunday, as the city fell completely to the militants of the Islamic State, who ransacked the provincial military headquarters, seizing a large store of weapons, and killed people loyal to the government, according to security officials and tribal leaders.
巴格达——安全官员和部族首领表示，剩余的伊拉克安全部队于周日撤离省会城市拉马迪，这里已完全处于伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）武装分子的掌控之中。伊斯兰国洗劫了该省的军事总部，控制了一座大型武器库，并杀害了效忠政府的人。
The fall of Ramadi to the Islamic State, despite intensified American airstrikes in recent weeks in a bid to save the city, represented the biggest victory so far this year for the extremist group, which has declared a caliphate, or Islamic state, in the vast areas of Syria and Iraq that it controls. The fall of Ramadi also laid bare the failed strategy of the Iraqi government, which had announced last month a new offensive to retake Anbar Province, a vast desert region in the west of which Ramadi is the capital.
尽管最近几周美国加大了空袭力度，希望保住这座城市，但拉马迪还是落入了伊斯兰国手中。这是该极端组织今年所取得的最大胜利。此前，该组织宣布在它控制的叙利亚和伊拉克的广大地区成立一个哈里发国，即奉行伊斯兰主义的国家。拉马迪的失陷还突显了伊拉克政府失败的策略——它上个月宣布要发起新的攻势来夺回安巴尔省。安巴尔省位于伊拉克西部，是一片广袤的荒漠地区，拉马迪为其省会。
“The city has fallen,” said Muhannad Haimour, the spokesman for Anbar’s governor. Mr. Haimour said that at least 500 civilians and security personnel had been killed over the last two days in and around Ramadi, either from fighting or executions. Among the dead, he said, was the 3-year-old daughter of a soldier.
安巴尔省省长的发言人穆汉纳德·海穆尔(Muhannad Haimour)表示，“这座城市沦陷了。”海穆尔称，过去两天，至少有500位平民和安保人员在拉马迪城内和周边地区遇害，有人是在战斗中丧生，也有人遭处决。他说，死者中还包括一名战士3岁的女儿。
“Men, women, kids and fighters’ bodies are scattered on the ground,” said Sheikh Rafi al-Fahdawi, a tribal leader from Ramadi, who was in Baghdad on Sunday and whose men had been resisting the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
“男人、女人、孩子和士兵的尸体遍地，”拉马迪的一名部族首领谢赫·拉菲·法赫达维(Sheikh Rafi al-Fahdawi)说。周日的时候，他本人身在巴格达。他手下的人一直在抵抗伊斯兰国。
He also said, “All security forces and tribal leaders have either retreated or been killed in battle. It is a big loss.”
他还说，“所有的安全部队和部族首领不是已经撤退，就是在战斗中丧生。损失很大。”
The loss of Ramadi came a day after the Pentagon said Special Operations Forces, flying in helicopters that took off from Iraq, carried out a raid in eastern Syria that resulted in the death of an Islamic State leader and the capture of his wife, along with a trove of materials American officials hope will yield important intelligence on the group.
拉马迪失守的前一天，五角大楼宣布，美军特种部队乘坐直升飞机从伊拉克出发，在叙利亚东部实施了一次突袭，导致伊斯兰国的一名领导人丧生、他的妻子被俘，同时获得了大量文件。美国官员希望从这些文件中发现关于该组织的重要情报。
American officials have also insisted recently that the Islamic State is on the defensive in Iraq, noting that the group has lost territory in Salahuddin Province and in some other areas in northern Iraq near the border with the autonomous Kurdish region. Yet the fall of Ramadi shows that the group is still capable of carrying out effective offensive operations.
美国官员近期还坚称伊斯兰国在伊拉克呈防守态势，指出该组织在萨拉赫丁省和伊拉克北部靠近库尔德自治区的一些地区失去了地盘。然而，拉马迪的沦陷显示，该组织仍然能够发动有效的攻势。
The Islamic State, which has held areas around Ramadi for nearly a year and a half, began an offensive on the city late Thursday night, and on Friday afternoon captured the provincial government headquarters.
在将近一年半的时间里，伊斯兰国控制着拉马迪周边的多个区域。周四深夜，它开始发动攻势，并于周五下午占领了该省的政府总部。
American officials in Washington downplayed the situation Friday, saying it was similar to the up-and-down fighting that had been continuing there since the beginning of last year.
周五，华盛顿的美国官员对当地局势的危急程度予以了淡化，称之类似于自去年初持续到现在的拉锯。
Yet the Islamic State was able to consolidate its hold of the city over the weekend, and on Sunday seized one of the last government redoubts — the local operations command center. The remaining officers and soldiers had fled, and one of them reached by telephone Sunday afternoon said they were stuck in a convoy southwest of Ramadi, with Islamic State militants closing in from four sides.
不过，伊斯兰国还是得以在周末期间巩固了对这座城市的控制，周日还占领了政府的最后堡垒之一——当地的行动指挥中心。剩下的官员和军人纷纷逃走，周日下午通过电话联系到的其中一人表示，他们被困在了位于拉马迪西南方向的一个车队里，而伊斯兰国的武装分子正从四面逼近。
Pentagon officials said Sunday that it was premature to declare that Ramadi had fallen.
五角大楼官员周日表示，现在宣布拉马迪已经沦陷还为时过早。
“We’re continuing to monitor reports of tough fighting in Ramadi and the situation remains fluid and contested,” said Col. Steven H. Warren, a Defense Department spokesman.
国防部发言人史蒂夫·H·沃伦上校(Col. Steven H. Warren)称，“我们在持续关注关于拉马迪的激烈战事的报道，当地局势仍然充满变数，争夺十分紧张。”
Coalition warplanes carried out more attacks on Islamic State targets in Iraq, with seven airstrikes on militant positions in or near Ramadi over the weekend, according to official statements. But the advance by Islamic State fighters was evidence again that American air power alone cannot hold territory for the Baghdad government, nor dislodge militants, without an effective Iraqi force on the ground to battle the Islamic State fighters.
官方声明称，盟军战机对伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国目标发动了更多攻击，周末期间对拉马迪城内及周边的武装分子据点开展了七轮空袭。不过，伊斯兰国武装分子的推进再次证明，如果没有一支高效的伊拉克部队在地面打击伊斯兰国的武装分子，单靠美国的空中力量并不能帮巴格达的政府守住地盘，也无法驱逐激进分子。
As the Islamic State sealed its advance into Ramadi, the wife of the militant organization’s senior financial officer remained in American custody in Iraq on Sunday. The wife, Umm Sayyaf, was captured by Delta Force commandos during the Saturday raid into Syria that killed her husband, Abu Sayyaf, and about a dozen militant fighters.
在伊斯兰国巩固在拉马迪的进攻成果之际，这个极端组织的高级财务官的妻子周日仍然被美方扣押在伊拉克。她的名字叫乌姆·沙耶夫(Umm Sayyaf)，周六在三角洲部队突击队员深入叙利亚境内开展的突袭行动中被俘。后者还杀死了她的丈夫阿布·沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)，以及数十名极端分子。
One senior American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the ongoing investigation, said Umm Sayyaf “was more than just her husband’s right-hand man and partner. She was likely involved in details about the hostage-taking, and how that worked.”
美国的一名高级官员表示，乌姆·沙耶夫“不仅是她丈夫的得力助手和伴侣，而且很可能参与了劫持人质的具体行动安排”。由于涉及正在进行的调查，这名官员要求不具名。