A Sudanese court in May sentences a Christian woman married to an American to be hanged, after first being lashed 100 times, after she refuses to renounce her Christian faith.
今年5月，苏丹的一家法院判处一名嫁给美国人的基督徒女性100下鞭刑和绞刑，原因是她拒绝放弃基督教信仰。
Muslim extremists in Iraq demand that Christians pay a tax or face crucifixion, according to the Iraqi government.
伊拉克政府称，伊拉克的穆斯林极端分子要求基督教徒缴纳一种税，否则就要钉在十字架上。
In Malaysia, courts ban some non-Muslims from using the word “Allah.”
在马来西亚，一些法院禁止非穆斯林使用“真主”一词。
In country after country, Islamic fundamentalists are measuring their own religious devotion by the degree to which they suppress or assault those they see as heretics, creating a human rights catastrophe as people are punished or murdered for their religious beliefs.
在一个又一个国家，伊斯兰原教旨主义者正在通过严酷地压制或攻击自己眼中的异教徒，来表明自己对信仰的虔诚。他们制造了一场人权灾难，许多人因为信仰而遭受了惩罚或杀戮。
This is a sensitive area I’m wading into here, I realize. Islam-haters in America and the West seize upon incidents like these to denounce Islam as a malignant religion of violence, while politically correct liberals are reluctant to say anything for fear of feeding bigotry. Yet there is a real issue here of religious tolerance, affecting millions of people, and we should be able to discuss it.
我知道，我蹚进了一个敏感领域。在美国和西方国家，伊斯兰教的憎恨者正利用这样的事件，把伊斯兰教谴责为暴力的邪恶宗教；与此同时，坚持政治正确的自由派由于担心加剧偏见，不愿意发表任何看法。然而，这里确实存在着宗教宽容的问题，它影响到数百万人，我们应该能够讨论这个话题。
I’ve been thinking about this partly because of the recent murder of a friend, Rashid Rehman, a courageous human rights lawyer in Multan, Pakistan. Rashid, a Muslim, had agreed to defend a university lecturer who faced the death penalty after being falsely accused of insulting the Prophet Muhammad. This apparently made Rashid a target as well, for two men walked into his office and shot him dead.
我一直在思考这个问题，部分原因在于我的朋友拉希德·拉赫曼(Rashid Rehman)最近被人谋杀了。他生前住在巴基斯坦木尔坦，是一名勇敢的人权律师。作为一个穆斯林，他答应为一名大学讲师辩护，后者受到了侮辱先知穆罕默德的不实指控，面临着死刑。这似乎让拉希德也成了迫害的目标，两名男子走进了他的办公室，开枪打死了他。
No doubt the killers thought themselves pious Muslims. Yet such extremists do far more damage to the global reputation of Islam than all the world’s Islamophobes put together.
毫无疑问，凶手们认为自己是虔诚的穆斯林。然而此类极端分子对伊斯兰教在全世界的声誉造成的破坏，远远超过了全世界所有仇视和恐惧伊斯兰的人。
The paradox is that Islam historically was relatively tolerant. In 628, Muhammad issued a document of protection to the monks of St. Catherine’s Monastery.
矛盾的是，伊斯兰教在历史上是比较宽容的。公元628年，穆罕默德为圣凯瑟琳修道院(St. Catherine’s Monastery)的僧侣发出了一份保护令，保障他们的安全。
“No compulsion is to be on them,” he wrote. “If a female Christian is married to a Muslim, it is not to take place without her approval. She is not to be prevented from visiting her church to pray.”
“不得强迫他们做任何事，”他写道。“如果穆斯林男性要娶基督徒女性，须征得女方同意，否则不可结婚。亦不得阻止女方到自己的教堂祈祷。”
Anti-Semitism runs deep in some Muslim countries today, but, for most of history, Muslims were more tolerant of Jews than Christians were. As recently as the Dreyfus Affair in France more than a century ago, Muslims defended a Jew from the anti-Semitism of Christians.
如今，反犹主义在一些穆斯林国家根深蒂固，但在历史的大部分时间里，穆斯林对犹太人的态度都比基督徒更宽容。就在一个多世纪以前，法国的德雷福斯事件(Dreyfus Affair)中，穆斯林就曾经保护过一名犹太人，免受基督教反犹主义的迫害。
Likewise, the most extreme modern case of religious persecution involved Europeans trying to exterminate Jews in the Holocaust. Since then, one of the worst religious massacres was the killing of Muslims by Christians at Srebrenica in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
除此之外，宗教迫害最极端的现代案例就是欧洲人对犹太人的种族屠杀。其后，基督徒在波黑斯雷布雷尼察对穆斯林的杀戮，也是最恶劣的宗教屠杀事件之一。
It’s also true that some of the bravest champions of religious freedom today are Muslim. Mohammad Ali Dadkhah, an Iranian lawyer, represented a Christian pastor pro bono, successfully defending him from charges of apostasy. But Dadkhah was then arrested himself and is now serving a nine-year prison sentence.
如今，最勇敢的一些宗教自由倡导者是穆斯林，这也是事实。伊朗律师穆罕默德·阿里·达德哈(Mohammad Ali Dadkhah)无偿为一名基督教牧师辩护，成功地帮他洗脱了叛教指控。不过，达德哈自己随后却遭到逮捕，并被判刑九年，目前正在服刑。
Saudi Arabia may feud with Iran about almost everything else, but they are twins in religious repression. Saudis ban churches; it insults Islam to suggest it is so frail it cannot withstand an occasional church.
沙特阿拉伯和伊朗或许会在所有的事情上进行对抗，但在宗教镇压方面却如出一辙。沙特取缔了基督教会——如果说伊斯兰教脆弱到连并不多见的教会都承受不了，那对伊斯兰教来说恐怕也是一种侮辱。
Particularly insidious in conservative Muslim countries is the idea that anyone born Muslim cannot become a Christian. That’s what happened in the case I mentioned in Sudan: The court considered the woman, Meriam Ibrahim, a Muslim even though she had been raised a Christian by her mother. The court sentenced her to die for apostasy; that was overturned, and she is now sheltering with her family in the United States Embassy in Sudan, trying to get permission to leave the country.
在保守的穆斯林国家里尤其危险的观念是，生为穆斯林的人不能成为基督徒。上文所说的发生在苏丹的案例就是如此：法院认定梅里亚姆·易卜拉欣(Meriam Ibrahim)是穆斯林，虽然她被母亲作为基督徒养大。法院以叛教为名，对她判处死刑。这个判决被推翻了，她目前与家人在美国驻苏丹大使馆中避难，希望能获得批准，离开苏丹。
A Pew Research Center study found Muslims victims of religious repression in about as many countries as Christians. But some of the worst abuse actually takes place in Muslim-dominated countries. In Pakistan, for example, a brutal campaign has been underway against the Shiite minority. Likewise, Iran represses the peaceful Bahai, and similarly Pakistan and other countries brutally mistreat the Ahmadis, who see themselves as Muslims but are regarded as apostates. Pakistani Ahmadis can be arrested simply for saying, “peace be upon you.”
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的一项研究发现，穆斯林受到宗教迫害的国家，与基督徒受到迫害的国家大致一样多。但是，一些最恶劣的迫害事件，其实发生在穆斯林占主导的国家。例如，巴基斯坦就在对占少数的什叶派展开残暴打压。同样，伊朗也在镇压和平的巴哈伊信仰(Bahai)，而巴基斯坦和其他国家则在粗暴地对待阿哈默底亚派(Ahmadis)——阿哈默底亚派自认为是穆斯林，但却被当做叛教者。巴基斯坦的阿哈默底亚派只要说一句“愿您平安”，当局可能就能逮捕他们。