GWER, Iraq — With American strikes beginning to show clear effects on the battlefield, Kurdish forces counterattacked Sunni militants in northern Iraq on Sunday, regaining control of two strategic towns with aid from the air.
伊拉克葛沃——周日，随着美国的袭击开始在战场上产生明显效果，库尔德部队在伊拉克北部对逊尼派武装分子发动了反击，在空中支援的协助下，夺回了两座战略性城镇的控制权。
The American airstrikes, carried out by drones and fighter jets, were intended to support the Kurdish forces fighting to defend Erbil, the capital of the Iraqi Kurdistan region, according to a statement by the United States Central Command. They destroyed three military vehicles being used by the militant group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, and damaged others, the statement said, adding that the warplanes also destroyed a mortar position.
美军中央司令部(United States Central Command)在声明中称，美国的空袭由无人机和战斗机实施，目的是向保卫埃尔比勒(Erbil)的库尔德部队提供支持。埃尔比勒是伊拉克库尔德斯坦自治区的首府。声明中称，他们摧毁了武装组织伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）所使用的三辆军车，并对其他车辆实施了破坏，还表示这些战机也摧毁了一个迫击炮部署点。
The wreckage of three heavily armed trucks lay twisted and scorched in Gwer, one of the recaptured towns, a few hours after the strikes, and body parts from at least three militant fighters were scattered nearby. Kurdish militiamen, known as pesh merga, confirmed seeing the airstrikes take place, and celebrated Sunday afternoon near the still-smoldering wrecks.
葛沃是被夺回的城镇之一，在那里，经过几个小时的打击，三辆装载重型武器的卡车残骸扭曲不堪，而且已被烧焦，至少有三名武装人员的残肢散落在周围。被称作“敢死军”(pesh merga)的库尔德武装人员证实，他们目睹了空袭的过程，而且周日下午还在冒着烟的残骸附近进行庆祝。
The American air support encouraged the Kurdish militiamen to reverse the momentum of the recent fighting and retake Gwer and the other town, Mahmour, both within a half-hour’s drive of Erbil, according to Gen. Helgurd Hikmet, head of the pesh merga’s media office. General Hikmet said some pesh merga fighters had pushed on beyond the two towns, which lie on the frontier between the Arab and Kurdish areas of Iraq.
敢死军媒体办公室负责人赫尔古尔德·希克梅特上将(Gen. Helgurd Hikmet)说，美国的空中支援为库尔德武装鼓舞了士气，帮助他们扭转了近期的战斗局势，并重新夺回了葛沃和另一座城镇马穆尔(Mahmour)，这两座城镇离埃尔比勒都只有不到半小时车程。希克梅特说，一些敢死军士兵还向这两座城镇之外的其他地区推进。这两座城市位于伊拉克境内，阿拉伯地区和库尔德地区的交界处。
American air power also appeared to be altering the situation at Mount Sinjar, 130 miles to the west, where members of the Yazidi ethnic and religious minority have been driven into rough country by an ISIS dragnet. Four American airstrikes on the extremists surrounding the mountain on Saturday, along with airdrops of food, water and supplies, helped thousands of the Yazidis to escape the siege and make their way on Sunday through Syrian territory to Fishkhabour, an Iraqi border town under Kurdish control.
美国的空中优势似乎也在改变辛贾尔山(Mount Sinjar)的局势，此地位于美军袭击地点以西130英里（约合200公里）处。在ISIS的包抄之下，族群和宗教意义上的少数派雅兹迪人(Yazidis)被赶到了条件艰苦的乡村。周六，美国对保卫这座山的极端分子发动空袭，并向难民空投食物、水和其他补给，帮助数千名雅兹迪人逃脱包围，并于周日穿过叙利亚领土来到库尔德人控制下的伊拉克边境城镇费希哈布尔(Fishkhabour)。
Tens of thousands more Yazidis remain trapped on the mountain, and American officials cautioned that the limited airstrikes alone could not open a corridor to safety for them. Neither, they said, would the American airstrikes be the decisive factor in the fight to stop ISIS.
仍有数万名雅兹迪人被困在山上，美国官员警告称，仅凭有限的空中打击根本无法为他们开辟一条安全通道。他们说，在试图阻止ISIS的战斗中，美军的空袭也无法成为决定性因素。
“This is a focused effort, not a wider air campaign,” said Col. Ed Thomas, spokesman for the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey. “It’s important to understand that our military objectives are limited in purpose.”
“这是一项有侧重点的行动，并非规模更大的空袭行动，”美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)的发言人埃德·托马斯上校(Col. Ed Thomas)说。“我们是有意为军事目标设限的，明白这一点很重要。”
President Obama and other American officials have said that more ambitious American support would be predicated on the Iraqi political leadership breaking a monthslong political deadlock and appointing a new prime minister, one who would head a more inclusive government than the Shiite-dominated administration of Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, and can reach a political settlement with Iraq’s disaffected Sunni population.
奥巴马总统和其他美国官员称，美国是否加大支持力度，取决于伊拉克政治领导层能否打破长达数月的僵局，任命一名新总理。这个新总理的政府，需要比努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)领导的政府包容性更强，而且要能与伊拉克心存不满的逊尼派达成政治协议。马利基政府是由什叶派主导的。
But the political crisis deepened at midnight Sunday as a deadline expired for President Fouad Massoum to choose a nominee for prime minister. Mr. Maliki made a brief appearance on state television and angrily accused Mr. Massoum of violating the constitution by not choosing him. 
但是，随着总统福阿德·马苏姆(Fouad Massoum)选择总理提名人的最后期限的到来，这场政治危机于周日午夜开始加深。马利基在国家电视台上短暂露面，并生气地指责马苏姆没有选择他是违反了宪法。
Pesh merga forces retook Gwer around midday, pushing through the town center and methodically searching for snipers, stragglers and booby traps that ISIS may have left behind. The main threat turned out to be north of the town, on the highway they had just used from Erbil. In three locations a mile apart in an area called Abushita, ISIS fighters had concealed trucks of a type used by the Iraqi army, mounted with heavy machine guns.
在正午前后，敢死军的部队夺回了葛沃，穿过镇中心，有条不紊地搜寻ISIS可能留下的狙击手、掉队的士兵和诡雷。结果，主要的威胁在镇子北部，就在他们刚刚从埃尔比勒来这里时走过的那条公路上。在一个叫作阿布希塔(Abushita)的地区，ISIS的武装分子在彼此相距一英里的三个地方隐藏了卡车，车上装着重机枪。这些卡车和伊拉克军方使用的卡车是同一种。
According to pesh merga accounts, when those trucks emerged around 3 p.m. from hiding places in farmhouses and barns near the highway in an apparent attempt to attack the Kurds from the rear, American jet fighter-bombers streaked in and blew up the trucks with cannon fire and bombs. Afterward, one truck lay on its side, completely charred; another sat burned out and mangled near the gate of a farm and the third was blasted to pieces behind an unfinished building.
根据敢死军的说法，那些卡车下午3点左右从那条公路附近藏身的农舍和仓棚中开出来，显然企图从背后攻击库尔德部队。此时，美军战斗机疾速而来，用机关炮和炸弹轰炸了那些卡车。之后，一辆卡车侧翻，彻底被烧焦；另一辆保持原来的姿态，在一家农场的大门附近焚烧殆尽；还有一辆位于一处未完工建筑后面，已被炸成了碎片。
“With the support of the Air Force of the United States, we are winning now,” said Taha Ahmed, a Kurdish volunteer fighter and an activist with the Kurdish Democratic Party. “For three days, they’ve been destroying ISIS.”
“在美国空军的支援下，我们现在正在取胜，”库尔德志愿战士、库尔德民主党(Kurdish Democratic Party)活动人士塔哈·艾哈迈德(Taha Ahmed)说。“三天来，他们一直在打击ISIS。”
Both Gwer and Mahmour are about 20 miles from Erbil, and advances by the militants last week briefly panicked residents in Erbil, which had been regarded as a safe haven. The American airstrikes seemed to have quickly restored confidence, with international flights into Erbil resuming after a pause, and business returning to normal.
葛沃和马穆尔距离埃尔比勒均有大约20英里，ISIS武装分子上周的推进，曾短暂地让埃尔比勒的居民感到恐慌。之前，埃尔比勒一直被认为是一个安全的庇护所。美国的空袭似乎很快便让人们恢复了信心，经过短暂的停顿后，前往埃尔比勒的国际航班得以恢复，商业活动也恢复正常。
Even so, the State Department announced on Sunday that it had pulled some of its staff from the American consulate in Erbil because of the security situation, relocating the personnel to Basra, in southern Iraq, and to Amman, Jordan. The announcement, part of a broader warning about travel to the country, did not say how many people had been removed from Erbil, but it said that the diplomatic post there remained open.
但即便如此，美国国务院周日也宣布，考虑到安全形势，已将埃尔比勒美国领事馆的部分员工调离，将他们重新安排到了伊拉克南部的巴士拉和约旦的安曼。这一声明是与国务院针对伊拉克的旅行警告同时发布的。声明中并未提及已从埃尔比勒撤离了多少人，但表示那里的外交部门依然开放。
Cheering truckloads of pesh merga fighters cruised the highway between Erbil and the battle front on Sunday, and when word spread in Gwer about the airstrikes here, fighters and civilians gathered, many of them taking celebratory photographs in front of the smoldering trucks.
周日，欢呼雀跃的敢死军战士乘坐一辆辆卡车，行驶在埃尔比勒和作战前线之间的那条公路上。当空袭的消息在葛沃传开时，战士和平民聚集在一起，许多人在冒着浓烟的卡车前面拍照庆祝。
“Your country has saved the Kurds twice,” said Yassin Mustafa Ahmed, a farmer from Gwer who had fled the militant takeover, referring to the no-fly zone imposed in 1991 and the American invasion in 2003. Mr. Ahmed said he had two sons and two grandsons who were with the pesh merga in Gwer, and two other grandsons and a cousin fighting near the Mosul Dam, which fell to ISIS last week. “Now you have to save us again,” he said.
农民亚辛·穆斯塔法·艾哈迈德(Yassin Mustafa Ahmed)在武装分子夺取葛沃时曾经出逃。艾哈迈德说，“你们国家救了库尔德人两次命。”他指的是1991年设立的禁飞区，以及2003年的美国入侵。他还说，自己有两个儿子和两个孙子是葛沃的敢死军成员，还有两个孙子和一个表亲在上周落入ISIS之手的摩苏尔大坝附近作战。“现在，你们又得再救我们一次了，”他说。