TEHRAN — Iran’s president said Sunday that he might invoke a powerful but neglected tool in his fight with hard-liners, suggesting the possibility of organizing direct referendums that would bypass the institutions the conservatives control and give more of a voice to Iranian voters.
德黑兰——伊朗总统周日表示，他可能会在与强硬派的斗争中启用一件强大但却被忽视了的工具。这表明，他可能会绕开保守派控制的相关机构，直接组织公投，让伊朗选民发出更多声音。
President Hassan Rouhani, speaking during a conference on the country’s economic problems, said that Iranians were entitled to have major issues put to a nationwide vote, as described in the 1979 Constitution.
伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)在一个有关该国经济问题的会议上发表讲话时称，正如1979年的宪法所规定的那样，伊朗人有权就重大问题举行全国性投票。
“It will be good to, after 36 years, even for once, or even every 10 years if we implement this principle of the Constitution, and put important economic, social and cultural issues to a direct referendum instead of to the Parliament,” Mr. Rouhani said.
“36年后的今天，如果我们就重要的经济、社会和文化问题直接举行公投，而非在议会举行投票，即便是一次或每十年一次，也是有益的，”鲁哈尼说。
In the opaque world of Iranian politics his remarks are a clear warning to hard-liners, who control the Parliament, key decision-making councils, the state-run media, the security forces and the intelligence services, but who have a shrinking base of support in the country.
在不透明的伊朗政坛，鲁哈尼的言论是对强硬派发出的明确警告。伊朗的强硬派控制着议会、关键的决策委员会、官方媒体、安全部队以及情报机构，但其在国内的支持面正在日渐缩小。
The last time their candidate won a presidential election, in 2009, angry middle-class Iranians accused the government of fraud and took to the streets for months in protest. At the time, the protest movement’s unofficial leader, former Prime Minister Mir Hussein Moussavi, also called for organizing a direct referendum. He has been under house arrest since 2011.
强硬派候选人上一次赢得总统大选是在2009年。当时，愤怒的伊朗中产阶级指责政府是骗子，并在街头抗议数月。那次抗议运动的非正式领袖、前总理米尔·哈桑·穆萨维(Mir Hussein Moussavi)，也要求直接举行公投。从2011年开始，穆萨维一直处于软禁中。
Any popular referendum would be troubling to hard-liners because it would be likely to produce results reflective of the changes in Iranian society. These days, most Iranians are urbanized, according to official figures, and seemingly less interested in the radicalism promoted by some Iranian leaders. Because most Iranians are not allowed to organize themselves, or to form parties or even social groups, their opinions are often muffled by official ideological pronouncements and propaganda.
对强硬派而言，任何全民公投都是伤脑筋的，因为公投的结果可能会反映出伊朗社会发生的变化。官方数据显示，如今大部分伊朗人都被城市化了，并且似乎对部分伊朗领导人宣扬的激进主义不那么感兴趣了。由于伊朗不允许大部分民众自发组织或成立政党乃至社会团体，他们的意见常常被官方的意识形态声明和宣传掩盖。
“The president is threatening the hard-liners that he is not afraid to use such a powerful tool,” said Farshad Ghorbanpour, a political analyst close to the government. Mr. Ghorbanpour said that most people supported the president’s desire for change, and that a referendum would reflect that.
“总统正在对强硬派发出威胁，告诉他们自己不会害怕使用这种强大的手段，”接近政府的政治分析人士法沙德·古尔班普尔(Farshad Ghorbanpour)说。他说，多数人对总统实施改革的愿望表示支持，这一点会在公投结果中体现出来。
“If hard-liners, for instance, want to disagree with a nuclear deal, Mr. Rouhani could call for a referendum, putting a potential deal before a nationwide vote,” he said.
“比如，如果强硬派想要反对一份核协议，鲁哈尼就可能组织一次公投，将一份潜在的协议付诸全国投票，”他说。
While the hard-liners control Parliament, and a referendum would have to be approved by two-thirds of the lawmakers, just by proposing such a measure Mr. Rouhani would put enormous pressure on his opponents.
尽管强硬派控制着议会，而且可能需要三分之二议员的支持才能举行公投，但通过提出这样的做法，鲁哈尼为对手造成了极大的压力。
“If they would say no to a referendum proposed by the government, it would mean they would say flat out no to the people,” Mr. Ghorbanpour said.
“如果他们反对政府提出的公投计划，那就意味着他们公然反对民众的想法，”古尔班普尔说。
On Sunday, though, hard-liners seemed unfazed by Mr. Rouhani’s threat. “The president is simply trying to keep the people’s minds preoccupied with new ideas,” said Hamid Reza Taraghi, an analyst with close ties to the conservative coalition of Shiite clerics and commanders. “In reality it is not easy at all to organize a referendum.”
但在周日，强硬派似乎对鲁哈尼的威胁并不在意。“总统只不过是想用一些新想法来占据民众的思想，”与什叶派神职人员和指挥官组成的保守联盟关系密切的分析人士哈米德-礼萨·塔拉吉(Hamid-Reza Taraghi)说。“事实上，组织一次公投绝非易事。”