BEIRUT — Islamic State militants in Syria severely damaged the Bel Temple, considered one of the greatest sites of the ancient world, in a massive explosion Sunday, activists said.
贝鲁特——权利活动者说，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子上周日用一场巨大的爆炸，对叙利亚境内的贝尔神庙(Bel Temple)进行了严重破坏。该神庙被认为是世界上最重要的古迹之一。
The 2,000-year-old temple was part of the remains of the ancient caravan city of Palmyra in central Syria, seized by IS in May.
有2000多年历史的贝尔神庙位于叙利亚中部，是古老的马帮城市巴尔米拉的遗迹。今年5月，该城市被伊斯兰国占据。
The news of the latest destruction at Palmyra came just days after IS released propaganda images purportedly showing militants blowing up another Palmyra temple, the 2,000-year-old Baalshamin dedicated to the Phoenician god of storms and fertilizing rains.
就在贝尔神庙被破坏的消息传出几天之前，伊斯兰国发布了武装分子炸毁巴尔米拉另一座神庙的宣传图片。那是有2000多年历史的巴尔夏明神庙(Baalshamin Temple)，供奉的是腓尼基人的风暴与雨露之神。
The U.N. cultural agency UNESCO, which has designated Palmyra as a world heritage site, called the destruction of the Baalshamin temple a war crime.
巴尔米拉是联合国文化机构联合国教科文组织(Unesco)认定的世界文化遗产，该组织称破坏巴尔夏明神庙是战争罪行。
Earlier this month, relatives and witnesses said that IS militants had beheaded Khaled al-Asaad, an 81-year-old antiquities scholar who devoted his life to understanding Palmyra.
本月初，目击者以及古物学者哈利德·阿萨德(Khalid al-Asaad)的亲属说，伊斯兰国武装分子已经将这位81岁的老者斩首。阿萨德毕生致力于对巴尔米拉的研究。
The Islamic State group, which has imposed a violent interpretation of Islamic law across its self-declared "caliphate" straddling Syria and Iraq, says such ancient relics promote idolatry.
自称“哈里发国”的伊斯兰国，将一种对伊斯兰教法的残暴解释强加于它所占据的叙利亚和伊拉克领土，他们称这些古代遗迹是在推行偶像崇拜。
It already has blown up several sites in neighboring Iraq, and it is also believed to be selling looted antiquities.
伊斯兰国已经在叙利亚的邻国伊拉克炸毁了几处古迹。人们还相信他们出售过被掠夺的文物。
A Palmyra resident, who goes by the name of Nasser al-Thaer, said IS militants set off a huge blast at 1:45 p.m. Sunday.
一个名叫纳赛尔·萨尔(Nasser al-Thaer)的巴尔米拉居民说，武装分子星期日下午1:45进行了一次巨大爆破。
"It is total destruction," he said of the scene of the explosion. "The bricks and columns are on the ground."
“神庙被彻底摧毁，”他谈到爆炸现场时说。“砖和柱子倒在地上。”
"It was an explosion the deaf would hear," he added.
“爆炸声震耳欲聋，”他说。
The resident said only the outer wall surrounding the temple remains.
他说神庙已经只剩下外墙。
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which has a network of activists in Syria, said the temple was damaged. It did not provide details.
总部设在英国的叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)在叙利亚有一个活动者网络；他们表示该神庙遭到毁坏，但没有提供具体细节。
The temple, consecrated to the Semitic god Bel, had been well-preserved and was a source of much pride for Syrians. It was consecrated in 32 A.D.
这座供奉着闪米特神明贝尔(Bel)的神庙一直保存完好，是叙利亚人引以为豪的名胜之一。它于公元32年开始供奉神明。
It stood out among the ruins not far from the colonnades of Palmyra, which is affectionately known by Syrians as the "Bride of the Desert."
它矗立在遗址处，与被叙利亚人昵称为“沙漠新娘”的巴尔米拉柱廊相隔不远。
Earlier Sunday, IS fighters pushed into a large district in southern Damascus, clashing with rival militants just a few kilometers from the center of the Syrian capital, the extremist group and Syrian activists said.
据该极端组织及叙利亚活动人士透露，周日早些时候，伊斯兰国作战人员推进至大马士革南部的大片地区，与敌对的武装分子在距离叙利亚首都中心区域几千米的地方发生冲突。
More than two dozen militants were killed in the clashes on the edges of the Qadam neighborhood, said the Observatory.
叙利亚人权观察组织表示，20多名武装分子在况达一带的冲突中死亡。
The pro-IS Aamaq News Agency reported that IS fighters seized half of Qadam. The Observatory's Rami Abdurrahman said IS fighters were holding two streets and that fighting was continuing.
亲伊斯兰国的阿玛奇通讯社(Aamaq News Agency)报道称，伊斯兰国作战人员已经占领了况达的一半区域。叙利亚人权观察组织的拉米·阿卜杜勒-拉赫曼(Rami Abdul-Rahman)表示，伊斯兰国作战人员占领了两条街道，战斗仍在继续。
IS supporters posted propaganda pictures claiming to show IS fighters advancing in the narrow streets of Qadam. The authenticity of the images could not be confirmed independently.
伊斯兰国的支持者张贴宣传画，展示伊斯兰国作战人员在况达狭窄街道向前推进的场面。这些图片的真实性无法得到独立证实。
IS has emerged as one of the most powerful forces in the battle to overthrow Syrian President Bashar Assad. Armed Islamic factions fighting forces loyal to Assad control parts of Damascus and large parts of the city's suburbs. IS fighters control large parts of the Palestinian refugee camp of Yarmouk, east of Qadam.
伊斯兰国在推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)的战斗中崛起，成为最强大的势力之一。忠于阿萨德的伊斯兰武装控制着大马士革的部分区域，以及该市郊区的大部分区域。伊斯兰国作战人员控制了况达东部巴勒斯坦人聚居区雅尔穆克营地的大部分区域。
Also Sunday, a mortar round hit an upscale neighborhood of central Damascus, killing four people, including a girl, Syrian state TV said.
叙利亚官方电视台报道称，周日，一枚迫击炮弹击中大马士革中部的一个高档社区，导致四人死亡，其中包括一个女孩。
It is not uncommon for Damascus to be shelled. Sunday's attack targeted the posh neighborhood of Abu Rummaneh, which houses hotels and several embassies.
大马士革遭到炮击的情况并不少见。周日攻击行动的目标是高档社区阿布鲁玛尼区，该区有很多酒店和几个大使馆。