Iran is finding a way around Western sanctions to export increasing amounts of an ultralight oil to China and other Asian markets, expanding the value of its trade by potentially billions of dollars a year.
伊朗正在想方设法绕过西方的制裁，向中国及其他亚洲市场出口一种超轻质油，且规模与日俱增，年交易量可能价值数十亿美元。
The exports come during a slight thaw in Iran’s relations with the West as negotiations over its nuclear program continue, and energy experts say it is counting on the United States and Europe to tolerate an increasing export stream.
随着伊朗和西方就核项目继续展开谈判，双方的关系出现了些许缓和，这些出口贸易就是在此背景下进行的。能源专家称，伊朗认为，美国和欧洲会容忍他们进一步扩大出口规模。
According to Iranian customs data, the country in recent months has exported 525,000 barrels a day of the ultralight oil, known as condensates, over two times more than it did a year ago. In the last three months, the sales have generated as much as $1.5 billion in extra trade — a rate of about $6 billion a year — based on Iranian trade figures and market prices, analysts said.
伊朗海关的数据显示，近几个月该国每天出口52.5万桶这种被称为凝析油的超轻质油，比一年前多出了两倍以上。分析人士说，根据伊朗的贸易数据和市场价格，过去三个月，凝析油销售已经带来了最多达15亿美元的额外贸易——一年可达到60亿美元。
The result has been an overall increase in petroleum shipments to China and other Asian markets without violating the letter of the sanctions. American officials have aimed to keep Iranian oil exports at around one million barrels a day, but when combined with condensate sales, they averaged 1.4 million barrels a day between January and May, according to the Energy Department.
在不违反制裁规定字面意思的前提下，伊朗向中国及其他亚洲市场的石油输出出现总体增长。美国官方的目标是把伊朗的石油出口控制在每天100万桶左右，但是能源部(Energy Department)称，如果算上凝析油的销售，该国1月到5月间平均每天的出口量为140万桶。
Administration officials said that they were aware of the increased sales and had periodically discussed them with Iran’s trading partners, suggesting that such purchases were not in the spirit of sanctions agreements. But the sanctions, they said, remained effective, with oil exports still down substantially from two years ago.
美国政府官员称他们知道销售在增长，并且会不时与伊朗的贸易伙伴商谈此事，指出这样的购买有违制裁协议的精神。但是他们说，制裁仍然是有效的，该国的石油出口比起两年前要低许多。
“The implementation caused a dramatic and drastic reduction in Iranian oil exports,” Amos Hochstein, the State Department’s acting special envoy and coordinator for international energy affairs, said in an interview.
“制裁的实施导致伊朗石油出口突然出现严重萎缩，”国务院(State Department)国际能源事务代理特使兼协调员阿莫斯·霍克斯坦(Amos Hochstein)在一次采访中说。
The condensates can be a byproduct of natural gas or oil production. But under the sanctions, they are fully covered only when they come out of an oil field, and not when produced from a natural gas field, even though they are routinely mixed with heavier grades of oil later for making fuels.
凝析油可以是天然气或石油生产的副产品。但根据制裁规则，只有从油田产出的凝析油是处在制裁范围内的，如果从天然气田产出则不会，尽管为了制造燃料，往往需要混入更重的油。
Administration officials said that the countries that had waivers to continue importing some Iranian oil — China, India, South Korea, Turkey, Taiwan and Japan — were not technically prohibited from buying the gas condensates and were not breaking the letter of the agreements with Washington.
政府官员称，拥有制裁豁免权，可以继续从伊朗进口石油的国家——中国、印度、韩国、土耳其、台湾和日本——理论上是可以购买天然气凝析油的，这并没有违背它们和华盛顿签订的协议的字面意思。
The increase in condensate exports compensates for a small part of Iran’s lost oil revenues. According to OPEC estimates, the value of Iranian oil exports in 2013 had plunged to $62 billion, down from $102 billion in 2012 and $115 billion in 2011.
凝析油出口的增长，为伊朗略微挽回了一些石油收入的损失。据石油输出国组织(OPEC)的估计，2013年伊朗石油出口价值已经下跌到620亿美元，相比之下2012年为1020亿美元，2011年为1150亿美元。
Still, there has been some slippage. The Energy Department reported that from January to May, Iranian oil and condensates exports were 300,000 barrels a day higher than the 2013 average, with China and India accounting for most of the increase. Other slippage comes from sales to Syria, a close ally of Iran.
不过，限制强度已有所减弱。据能源部报告，从1月到5月，伊朗石油和凝析油的出口每天比2013年平均高出了30万桶，增长主要来自中国和印度。其他导致强度减弱的因素包括针对伊朗的亲密盟友叙利亚的销售。
“They found a loophole that buyers can use,” said Greg Priddy, director of global energy at the Eurasia Group, a consultant firm. But he added that despite the new condensates sales, “sanctions are not melting away.”
“他们发现了一个可供买家利用的漏洞，”咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)全球能源董事格雷格·普利迪(Greg Priddy)说。但是他还说，虽然增加了凝析油的销售，“制裁不会被瓦解。”
The Chinese Embassy and Iranian Interests Section in Washington did not respond to email requests for comment on the increased sales.
就销售增长问题发出的请求置评电子邮件，没有得到华盛顿的中国大使馆和伊朗利益代表处(Iranian Interests Section)的回复。
Under the sanctions, crude oil exports to most nations are now banned. As for natural gas, Iran was banned from exporting it to the European Union in late 2012, but not to Asian markets — providing an opening for the gas condensates sales.
在制裁期间，伊朗不得向绝大多数国家出口原油。在天然气方面，2012年底伊朗被禁止向欧盟出口，但亚洲市场不受限制——这就给天然气凝析油的销售带来了机会。
While the added exports are giving the Iranians a taste of the economic benefits of a diplomatic rapprochement, administration officials note that the benefits of the condensates sales are still limited by the sanctions on Iran’s central bank. Under those sanctions, the money from the sales of gas, like oil, cannot be repatriated and must stay in the country that buys the Iranian product. That means the proceeds can be used to buy products in China or India, but not to support Iran’s nuclear program.
额外的出口让伊朗人尝到了外交关系的修复带来的经济甜头，但美国政府官员指出，由于对伊朗央行的制裁，凝析油销售带来的益处仍然是有限的。在当前制裁下，天然气和石油一样，销售所得是不能回到伊朗国内的，必须留在购买了伊朗产品的国家。这意味着这笔钱可以用来在中国或印度购买产品，但不能用于支持伊朗的核项目。
Iran is already owed billions of dollars in oil payments because the value of the goods it wishes to buy does not always equal the value of the oil it sells.
由于想购买的货品与它销售的石油不一定等值，伊朗有数十亿美元的石油款尚未收回。
“What is actually in peril are the assets of the Central Bank of Iran wherever they come from,” said Richard Nephew, the State Department’s deputy coordinator for sanctions policy.
“真正面临危险的是伊朗央行的资产，无论钱是从哪里来的，”国务院制裁政策副协调员理查德·奈菲尔(Richard Nephew)说。
Nevertheless, experts say the increased exports are likely to spur added tensions between the Obama administration and congressional critics who say it is not pressuring Iran enough to force the country to retreat from developing the ability to build atomic weapons.
尽管如此，专家们还是认为，出口的增加有可能会进一步加剧奥巴马政府和国会的批评者之间的紧张关系，后者认为政府没有对伊朗施加足够的压力，迫使他们不再去发展其核武器制造能力。