VIENNA — In his opening to China more than 40 years ago, Richard M. Nixon made a huge Cold War gamble that he could forge a working relationship with a Communist country that had built a small arsenal of nuclear weapons and clearly had long-term ambitions for global power.
维也纳——四十多年前，向中国敞开大门的理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)是在进行一场冷战豪赌，他希望能与这个共产主义国家建立正常的关系。当时中国已经建起了小型核武库，而且明显有着建立全球影响力的远大目标。
For President Obama, the deal struck Tuesday morning with Iran represents a similar leap of faith, a bet that by defusing the country’s nuclear threat — even if just for a decade or so — he and his successors would have the time and space to restructure one of the United States’ deepest adversarial relationships.
对奥巴马总统而言，周二上午与伊朗达成的协议，代表着一种与之类似的坚定信念，他赌的是通过缓解伊朗的核威胁——哪怕仅是十年左右的时间——他和继任者将有时间和空间来重塑与伊朗的关系。该国是对美国最具敌意的国家之一。
Mr. Obama will be long out of office before any reasonable assessment can be made as to whether that roll of the dice paid off. The best guess today, even among the most passionate supporters of the president’s Iran project, is that the judgment will be mixed.
至于这次的冒险成功与否，要很久之后才能得出有理有据的判断，届时奥巴马早已下台。即便是最坚决的伊朗计划支持者也认为，此刻最可靠的猜想是，各方对该计划的态度将是褒贬不一的。
Little in the deal announced on Tuesday eliminates Iran’s ability to become a threshold nuclear power eventually — it just delays the day. To Mr. Obama’s many critics, including Henry A. Kissinger, the architect of the China opening, that is a fatal flaw. It does nothing, Mr. Kissinger wrote recently with another former secretary of state, George P. Shultz, to change “three and a half decades of militant hostility to the West.”
周二公布的协议基本上不能解除伊朗跨过核门槛的能力——只是要推迟这一天的到来。许多奥巴马的批评者认为这是一个致命的错误，其中就包括向中国开放政策的设计师亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)。基辛格最近和另一位前国务卿乔治·P·舒尔茨(George P. Shultz)联合撰文称，此举无助于改变伊朗“三十五年来对西方的强烈敌意”。
Yet it is a start. Senior officials of two countries who barely spoke with each other for more than three decades have spent the past 20 months locked in hotel rooms, arguing about centrifuges but also learning how each perceives the other. Many who have jousted with Iran over the past decade see few better alternatives.
但这是一个开始。在过去20个月里，之前三十多年鲜有交流的两国高官锁在酒店房间里，在争论离心机事宜的同时，也在了解彼此是如何看待对方的。很多在过去十年里一直与伊朗缠斗的人，也看不到什么更好的选择。
“The reality is that it is a painful agreement to make, but also necessary and wise,” said R. Nicholas Burns, who drafted the first sanctions against Iran, passed in the United Nations Security Council in 2006 and 2007, when he was undersecretary of state for policy. “And we might think of it as just the end of the beginning of a long struggle to contain Iran. There will be other dramas ahead.”
“事实是，这是一项痛苦的协议，但同时也是有必要的，明智的，”R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R. Nicholas Burns)说。他在任政务副国务卿期间起草了首批针对伊朗的制裁措施，并于2006、2007年在联合国安理会获得通过。“我们可以这样看，在这场遏制伊朗的漫长斗争中，协议只是一个开始阶段的结束。接下来还会有别的戏码。”
Mr. Obama certainly signaled where he was going, starting with his first inaugural address. When he offered on that bitterly cold afternoon in January 2009 to “extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist,” even to governments “who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent,” there was little doubt that he had Iran’s leaders in mind.
奥巴马对他的意图无疑已经做过表达，他的第一次就职演说就是个开始。在2009年1月那个寒冷的下午，当他表示即便是对“通过腐败、欺骗和让异见人士噤声掌权的政府”，“如果你愿意松开拳头，我们就会伸出手”时，他肯定想到了伊朗领导人。
At the time, it was also meant as a signal that the era of George W. Bush had ended, and that a renewed reliance on diplomacy had begun. But the reality once Mr. Obama took office was a little different.
当时，这也是在暗示乔治·W·布什的时代结束了，重新倚重外交手段的时代开始。但奥巴马上台后的实际情况却有些不同。
Faced with a recalcitrant supreme leader in Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Mr. Obama’s aides figured out how to impose the ultimate economic sanction — cutting off much of Iran’s oil revenue — as well as isolating it from global banking systems. They also deployed the world’s most sophisticated cyberweapon, later dubbed Stuxnet, to slow Iran’s nuclear progress.
面对顽固的伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)，奥巴马的幕僚设法在实行终极经济制裁——即切断伊朗的大量石油收入——的同时，还将其孤立在全球银行体系之外。为了阻挠伊朗的核进展，他们还部署了全世界最尖端的网络武器，而该武器后来被称作“震网”(Stuxnet)。
And then they waited.
然后他们开始等待。
Now, six years later, after coaxing a new Iranian government into negotiations even many of Mr. Obama’s top aides predicted were doomed to failure, the outreach to Iran has morphed into a far more complex experiment in engagement than Mr. Obama’s previous two, first with Myanmar, then with Cuba.
六年后的今天，一个新的伊朗政府在劝说之下同意展开谈判，但就连奥巴马的很多高级幕僚都预言该谈判注定要失败。美国对伊朗的示好已经演变成一个复杂的实验，比奥巴马之前对缅甸和古巴的两次试探性接触要复杂得多。
Neither of those countries posed a significant threat to the United States’ interests, and there was little risk in ending sanctions. Iran is different.
缅甸和古巴对美国利益构成的威胁都不大，解除制裁的风险很小。伊朗则不然。
Tehran’s nuclear program is just one of its instruments of power to destabilize the Middle East. And there is risk, especially in the next few years, that Iran’s generals will compensate for the loss of a nuclear program by stepping up their financing of Hezbollah and the government of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria, and by flexing their muscles in other conflicts across the region. They have already built up a talented “cybercorps” of their own and turned it on Saudi Arabia and, in more limited ways, the United States.
德黑兰的核计划仅仅是它动摇中东稳定的权力工具之一。而且是存在风险的，尤其是在未来几年中，伊朗的将军们为了弥补在核计划上失利，将加强对真主党(Hezbollah)以及叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府的资助，并在该地区的其他冲突中施展他们的影响力。他们已经组建了一只精锐的“网络战队”，用其攻击了沙特阿拉伯，也小规模攻击过美国。
Within a year or so, they will have a new influx of cash to finance those efforts. Assuming Iran makes good on its promises to ship most of its nuclear fuel out of the country and to mothball nearly three-quarters of its centrifuges, its oil revenue will start to flow and its financial ties to the outside world will strengthen.
在一年左右的时间内，他们会有新的现金流入，来为这些活动提供资金。假设伊朗确实兑现了承诺，将大部分核燃料运出国门，并封存了近四分之三的离心机，那么它就会开始获得石油收入，与外界的金融联系也将会加强。
Mr. Obama is essentially betting that once sanctions have been lifted, Iran’s leaders will have no choice but to use much of the new money to better the lives of their long-suffering citizens. He has told his aides that he expects relatively little to be spent to finance terrorism or the emerging corps of Iranian cyberwarriors, a group now as elite as Iran’s nuclear scientists.
基本上，奥巴马赌的是在制裁解除后，伊朗领导人别无选择，只能把新获得的资金大量用在苦难深重的国民身上，以提高他们的生活水平。他曾对幕僚说，他预计用来资助恐怖分子或正在成形的伊朗网络战队的资金会相对较少。这支战队现在已经是和伊朗核科学家一样重要的精锐力量。
In the wake of Nixon’s overture to China, Japan wondered if it would be cut adrift and Taiwan felt betrayed. Mr. Obama’s agreement with Iran may have unintended consequences as well. Both Israel and Saudi Arabia see a reconciliation as a threat. They fear that it will help Iran gain money, power and influence — and that it could be the opening wedge of a broader realignment of American interests in the region. For Mr. Obama and his successor, managing that fear may become as complex as managing Iran.
在尼克松对中国示好之后，日本怀疑自身会被放弃，台湾感觉遭到背叛。奥巴马与伊朗达成的协议可能也会带来意想不到的后果。以色列和沙特阿拉伯均认为达成和解是一种威胁。他们担心这会促使伊朗获得资金、权势和影响力，而且它或许会给美国在宏观层面调整在中东地区的利益埋下裂痕。对于奥巴马及其继任者来说，应对这种担忧可能会像应对伊朗本身一样复杂。
But no one in the White House expects that the Iranian government, having made the necessary nuclear concessions to get its accounts refilled and its oil flowing again, is really interested in a far broader relationship anytime soon.
不过，白宫中没人认为德黑兰真的有意在短时期内建立更为广泛的关系。伊朗政府已经在核项目上作出必要让步，以重新获得资金并出口石油。
Just days before the agreement was signed, there were ritual, if not especially energetic, “death to Israel” and “death to America” demonstrations, perhaps an offering to disappointed hard-liners.
就在签署协议的几天之前，伊朗出现了惯常的——如果说不是特别起劲的话——“以色列必亡”、“美国必亡”的示威活动。这或许是为了支持失望的强硬派。
In fact, anyone along for the ride during the 20 long months of these negotiations saw how deeply conflicted the Iranian leadership was about the entire enterprise. The American-educated foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, spent as much time managing the hard-liners in his government as he did negotiating with Secretary of State John Kerry.
实际上，任何参与长达20个月的谈判的人都看到了，伊朗领导层在这整件事上的冲突有多大。拥有美国教育背景的伊朗外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)耗费了很多时间来对付政府内部的强硬派，几乎与他跟美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)进行谈判的时长一样。
“Four decades ago, it was clear that Mao had made a fundamental decision about his strategic shift, and he opened relations with the United States after concluding that the Soviet Union was a fundamental challenge to both of them,” said Karim Sadjadpour, who examines Iran policy at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “In Iran, there is hope for a strategic shift, but it will take years to know.” And it may take a new supreme leader.
“很明显，40年前，毛泽东在战略转移方面做出了一个根本性决定。在断定苏联对中美两国均构成重要挑战之后，他与美国建立了关系，”卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的伊朗政策分析师卡里姆·萨德杰普尔(Karim Sadjadpour)说。“在伊朗，的确有改变战略的希望，但这需要好多年的时间才会明朗。”或许还要等到新的最高领袖上台之后。
For Mr. Obama, the end of the negotiations with Iran signifies the beginning of a negotiation with Congress, which now has 60 days to approve or disapprove the arrangement. The numbers suggest Mr. Obama will prevail; if Congress rejects the Iran accord, he promised on Tuesday to veto the legislation, and he has enough Democrats to win that contest. Yet he clearly does not want the biggest diplomatic achievement of his presidency to turn into yet another political melodrama.
对于奥巴马来说，与伊朗的谈判的结束意味着与国会的协商的开始。国会有60天的时间决定通过还是否决这项协议。目前的支持人数说明奥巴马会取得胜利。他在周二承诺，如果国会拒绝接受伊朗协议，他会否决相关立法，而且他有足够多的民主党人的票数来赢得这场斗争。不过，他明显不希望自己担任总统期间最大的外交成就变成另一场政治闹剧。
His desire, aides say, is to convince the country of his logic: While sanctions and sabotage brought Tehran to the table, more sanctions and more sabotage, Mr. Obama argues, would not force Tehran to scrap every one of its nuclear facilities. In fact, until Mr. Kerry and Wendy R. Sherman, the chief American negotiator, struck an interim deal with the Iranians in late 2013 to allow the final negotiations to begin, every new round of sanctions was answered with an escalation in the size and aggressiveness of the Iranian program to enrich uranium.
幕僚表示，他想说服整个国家相信他提出的理由：奥巴马认为，虽然制裁和破坏行动迫使伊朗来到谈判桌前，但更多的制裁和破坏行动不会迫使它拆毁所有的核设施。克里和美国首席谈判代表温迪·R·谢尔曼(Wendy R. Sherman)于2013年底与伊朗达成临时协议，最终谈判得以开始。实际上，在此之前，每一轮新制裁都会迎来伊朗铀浓缩项目的规模扩大和更加积极推进的态度。
“It’s a matter of pragmatism,” William J. Burns, who conducted much of the secret diplomacy with Iran that began these talks when he served as Mr. Kerry’s deputy secretary of state, said recently. “A nuclear-armed Iran, or an Iranian nuclear program unconstrained by any serious long-term restrictions, multiplies exponentially the dangers in an already chaotic region.”
“这是实用主义，”威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)最近表示。“伊朗拥有核武器，或不受任何长期的严格限制约束的核计划，会极大地加剧这个本已混乱的地区面临的危险。”伯恩斯曾在克里手下担任副国务卿，期间开展了大量秘密外交活动，推动了谈判的开启。
Mr. Burns said he had no expectations of “any overnight transformation of Iranian behavior in the region, which is likely to threaten our interests and those of our friends for some time.”
伯恩斯表示，他并不期待“伊朗突然改变在该地区的行为，这些行为很可能会在一段时间里威胁到我们及盟友的利益。”