WASHINGTON —With Senate Democrats blocking passage of a resolution disapproving of the Iran nuclear deal, the attention will shift from the halls of Congress to the nations and international agencies that must put the accord into effect. Here’s what happens next.
华盛顿——随着参议院民主党人士成功地阻拦了一项封杀伊朗核协议的国会决议，人们的注意力将从国会的厅堂转向必须让这一协议正式生效的国家和国际机构。以下是接来下会发生的事：
Q. What is the first thing that will happen?
问：接下来首先会发生什么？
A. The agreement is to be formally adopted on Oct. 19 — 90 days after it was endorsed by the United Nations Security Council. That is the day when Iran and the six world powers that concluded the accord — the United States, Germany, Britain, France, Russia and China — are to start taking steps to comply, although most of the early burden falls on Iran.
答：10月19日，即这一协议获得联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)通过90天之后，它会得到正式采纳。届时，达成该协议的伊朗和伊核六国——美国、德国、英国、法国、俄罗斯和中国——会开始采取措施实施该协议，不过初期需要做的大部分工作都在伊朗方面。
Q. When does the agreement actually take effect?
问：协议什么时候真正生效？
A. That does not happen until “implementation day.” Nobody knows for sure when that may be. American experts say it will take six to nine months for Iran to carry out the initial nuclear steps that are required for the accord to take effect. Iran insists it can act more quickly, in weeks or months.
答：那要等到“执行日”，没有人知道确切的时间。美国专家表示，伊朗将需要六到九个月的时间，才能完成协议生效所需解决的一些有关核设施的前期准备工作。伊朗坚称它可以更快地完成这些步骤，只需几周或几个月的时间。
Q. What does Iran need to do before the accord goes into effect?
问：协议生效之前伊朗需要做些什么？
A. Iran must reduce its large stockpile of low enriched uranium to no more than 660 pounds from roughly 12 tons today — a 98 percent reduction. To do so, it will almost certainly have to ship fuel out of the country. It must also disassemble and store more than 13,000 centrifuges — it is only allowed to have 5,060 spinning — and convert the underground Fordo nuclear enrichment site to a research-and-development installation. Iran must also remove and disable the core of its heavy water reactor at Arak so that it cannot produce plutonium, another pathway to a bomb. It must also make arrangements for inspections and monitoring by the International Atomic Energy Agency and begin answering questions about suspected military-related work on nuclear weapons — although the answers may take years to resolve, if they ever get resolved.
答：伊朗必须将其大量低浓缩铀储备，从现在的大约12吨，减少到不超过660磅，即减少98%。为了做到这一点，它无疑必须把这些燃料运出伊朗。它还必须拆除和储存1万3千多台离心机——伊朗只被允许拥有5060台，并将福尔多地下核原料浓缩厂改建成研究与开发基地。伊朗还必须拆除位于阿拉克的重水反应堆的核心部分，这样它就无法再生产钚，这是另一种可以制造核弹的原料。伊朗还要为国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)前去检查和监督做好安排，并开始回答有关那些被怀疑是与核武器相关的军事项目的问题。不过，这些问题可能无法得到解答，即便得到答案，可能也需要数年时间。
Q. What steps do the United States and its negotiating partners need to take?
问：美国及其谈判伙伴需要采取哪些措施？
A. The United States will waive many of its nuclear-related sanctions blocking business with Iran, starting on implementation day. The European Union will terminate many of its sanctions on that day too . Also, Iran will be granted access to its frozen assets abroad, mostly money from oil sales. Although Iran has as much as $125 billion in frozen assets, the Treasury Department says it would have immediate access to less than $60 billion because much of the money has already been obligated, including for projects in China.
答：从执行日开始，美国将取消限制与伊朗进行商业往来的很多与核问题相关的制裁。欧盟也会在那一天终止它采取的很多此类制裁措施。伊朗还将重获此前被冻结的海外资产，主要是石油销售收入。尽管伊朗有多达1250亿美元的冻结资产，但美国财政部表示，伊朗可以很快拿到的资产只有不足600亿美元，因为其中很多要被用来偿债，包括为中国的一些项目买单。