BAGHDAD — When Iranian fighter jets struck extremist targets this week in Iraq, enforcing a self-declared buffer zone along the border, it was only the latest display of Tehran’s new willingness to conduct military operations openly on foreign battlefields rather than covertly and through proxies.
巴格达——本周，伊朗战斗机对伊拉克境内的极端分子发动空袭，并自行在两国边境沿线设立了一个缓冲区。这只是一个最新的例证，表明德黑兰开始愿意公开在境外战场上开展军事行动，而不再通过代理人秘密进行。
The shift stems in part from Iran’s deepening military role in Iraq in the war against the Sunni extremists of the Islamic State. But it also reflects a profound shift in Iran’s strategy, a new effort to exert Shiite influence around the region and counter Sunni powers such as Saudi Arabia.
之所以会发生这样的转变，部分是因为，在对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的逊尼派极端分子的战争中，伊朗开始在伊拉克发挥越来越大的军事作用。然而，它也反映了伊朗的一个深刻的战略转变，一种在地区发挥什叶派的影响力并对抗沙特阿拉伯等逊尼派势力的新尝试。
Analysts also say it follows a calculation that what Iran’s rulers see as a less-engaged United States will tolerate or even encourage their overt military activities.
分析人士还称，这一转变经过了一番考量：伊朗统治者认为，已经开始降低地区干预度的美国，将会容忍乃至鼓励他们进行公开的军事活动。
While there is no direct coordination with the United States military in the region, there is what might be characterized as a de facto nonaggression pact, where the two sides stay out of each other’s way, as the Syrian government and the Americans do in managing airstrikes in Syria.
虽然没有与部署在该地区的美军进行直接的协调，但双方存在一种默契，可以视为事实上的互不侵犯条约——双方互不干涉，正如叙利亚政府和美国对叙利亚境内目标实施空袭时那样。
“We are flying missions over Iraq, we coordinate with the Iraqi government as we conduct those,” Rear Adm. John F. Kirby, the Pentagon’s press secretary, said on Tuesday. “It’s up to the Iraqi government to de-conflict that airspace.”
“我们正在伊拉克上空执行任务，在开展这些行动时，会与伊拉克政府进行协调，”五角大楼发言人约翰·F·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John F. Kirby)周二表示。“化解空域冲突是伊拉克政府的职责。”
Iran has offered weapons to the Lebanese army and supported the Shiite Houthi rebels in Yemen that have taken over the capital, Sanna, where on Wednesday a car bomb struck the Iranian ambassador’s residence.
伊朗一直在向黎巴嫩军队提供武器，还支持过占领了也门首都萨那的什叶派胡塞(Houthi)叛军。本周三，伊朗大使在萨那的住所遭到了一枚汽车炸弹的袭击。
In Syria, Hezbollah, the Iranian-supported Shiite militant movement, and the Iranian paramilitary Al Quds force, have kept President Bashar al-Assad in power. And in Iraq, Iran is cooperating at arm’s length with the United States, as the two rivals focus on fighting the Islamic State.
在叙利亚，伊朗支持的什叶派激进运动真主党(Hezbollah)和伊朗的准军事组织圣城军(Al Quds Force)让巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)保住了总统之位。而在伊拉克，伊朗正与美国进行保持一定距离的合作。两国虽为对手，但均在对抗伊斯兰国。
Iran’s once-elusive spymaster, Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the commander of the Quds force who has spent a career in the shadows orchestrating terrorist attacks — including some that killed American soldiers in Iraq — has emerged as a public figure, with pictures of the general on Iraq’s battlefields popping up on social media.
一度深藏不露的伊朗间谍组织首脑、圣城军指挥官卡西姆· 苏莱马尼少将(Qassim Suleimani)摇身变成了公众人物，他身处伊拉克战场的照片突然出现在了社交媒体上。他的整个职业生涯都在暗中策划恐怖袭击，其中有些袭击导致驻伊拉克美军丧生。
The apparent shift in Iran’s strategy has been most noticeable in Iraq, where even American officials acknowledge the decisive role of Iranian-backed militias, particularly in protecting Baghdad from an assault by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
伊朗战略的明显变化在伊拉克问题上表现得最为醒目。在那里，就连美国官员都承认，伊朗支持的民兵组织具有决定性作用，尤其是有一次保护了巴格达免受伊斯兰国（亦称ISIS或ISIL）的进攻。
While Iran’s growing military role has proved essential in repelling the advances of the Islamic State, American officials worry that it could ultimately destabilize Iraq by deepening sectarian divisions. Iraq’s Sunnis blame the Iranian-backed Shiite militias for sectarian abuses, and are reluctant to join with the Iraqi government in the fight against extremists because of Iran’s influence.
虽然事实证明，伊朗在伊拉克境内日益增多的军事行动在抵御伊斯兰国的进攻中颇为重要，但美国官员担心，这可能会加剧宗派分歧，最终致使伊拉克陷入动荡。伊拉克的逊尼派认为，伊朗支持的什叶派民兵屡屡从事宗派暴行，而且由于伊朗所发挥的影响，他们也不愿与伊拉克政府一同对抗伊斯兰国。
Admiral Kirby said: “Our message to Iran is the same today as it was when it started, and as it is to any neighbor in the region that is involved in the anti-ISIL activities. And that’s that we want nothing to be done that further inflames sectarian tensions in the country.”
柯比少将表示：“我们今天给伊朗的信号与当初一样，也与给该地区参与打击ISIL行动的其他邻国的信号一样。那就是我们希望它们不要采取任何进一步加剧伊拉克宗派冲突的举措。”
He said the Iranian airstrikes, which he indirectly confirmed by saying he had, “no reason to believe” the reports about them were untrue appeared so far to be limited.
柯比间接证实了伊朗的空袭，称“没有理由相信”相关报道是不真实的，并表示到目前为止，行动似乎是有限的。
The airstrikes occurred at the end of November in Iraq’s eastern Diyala Province, where Iran’s territory is closest to Iraq’s battlefields, Hamid Reza Taraghi, an Iranian politician confirmed. He also confirmed the existence of the buffer zone, which he said was accepted by Iraqi authorities.
伊朗政界人士哈米德-礼萨·塔拉吉(Hamid-Reza Taraghi)证实，伊朗于11月末对位于伊拉克东部的迪亚拉省发动空袭。该省是距离伊朗领土最近的战斗区域。他还确认了缓冲区的存在，并称其得到了伊拉克当局的认可。
“We do not tolerate any threats within the buffer zone, and these targets were in the vicinity of the buffer zone,” said Mr. Taraghi. He claimed that dozens of extremist fighters had been killed in the operation.
塔拉吉说，“我们不会容忍缓冲区内出现任何威胁，而这些目标紧邻缓冲区。”他声称此次行动导致数十名极端主义武装分子死亡。
The backdrop to Iran’s growing military role in Iraq is the American-led air campaign against the Islamic State in both Syria and Iraq. The United States and Iran, once bitter enemies who fought a bloody shadow war in Iraq, now share the same goal – defeating the extremists. Often, it is a single Iraqi officer who is used as an intermediary between the Americans and Iranians, as they synchronize their efforts on the battlefield.
伊朗在伊拉克加大军事存在的背景是，美国正带头对叙利亚和伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国目标开展空袭。美国和伊朗，这对曾经在伊拉克展开血腥代理战争的宿敌，现在有着共同的目标——击败极端分子。通常只有一名伊拉克军官充当美国与伊朗的中间人，帮助它们协调战场上的行动。
Working through intermediaries is not the most efficient way to conduct operations, and sometimes it can lead to awkward moments on the battlefield. Recently, for example, both coalition aircraft and jets from Mr. Assad’s forces bombed targets in Raqqa, the Islamic State’s capital. In Syria, the United States and Iran are at odds over Mr. Assad, with Iran his most important supporter and the United States preferring that he leave power.
通过中间人沟通并不是开展行动的最有效的方式，有时会导致战场上出现一些令人不快的时刻。例如，盟军飞机和阿萨德部队的战机最近都对位于伊斯兰国首府拉卡的目标进行了轰炸。在叙利亚，美国和伊朗对阿萨德持迥异的态度，伊朗是阿萨德最重要的支持者，而美国则希望他下台。
When the Islamic State stormed Mosul, Iraq’s second largest city, in June and moved south toward Baghdad, President Obama took a measured approach, pushing for political changes before committing to military action. But Iran jumped right in. It was the first country to send weapons to the Kurds in the north, and moved quickly to protect Baghdad, working with militias it supported already.
当伊斯兰国于今年6月火速夺取伊拉克第二大城市摩苏尔并一路向南朝着巴格达推进时，奥巴马总统几经斟酌后采取的策略是，在承诺军事行动前推动伊拉克的政治变革。但伊朗迫不及待地介入其中。它是首个向伊拉克北部的库尔德人提供武器的国家，并且快速行动，与它本已支持的民兵组织联手保卫了巴格达。