WASHINGTON — Deepening its involvement in the crisis in Iraq, Iran has sent three Russian-made attack planes to the Maliki government that could be deployed against the Sunni militants who have wreaked havoc on Iraqi military forces, American and Iraqi officials said Tuesday.
华盛顿——周二，美国及伊拉克官员表示，伊朗向马利基政府交付了三架俄制攻击机，可部署用于对抗严重打击了伊拉克军事力量的逊尼派武装分子。这表明，伊朗进一步介入了伊拉克危机。
Delivery of the Su-25 aircraft, which American officials said had already conducted missions in western and northern Iraq, is the latest step Iran has taken to help Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki battle the forces of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, and expand its influence as Iraqi politicians struggle to form a new government.
交付苏-25攻击机是伊朗采取的最新举措，以帮助伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的战斗力量，并在伊拉克政坛人士竭力组建新政府之际，扩大自己的影响力。美国官员称，这几架苏-25已经在伊拉克西部及北部执行任务。
An American official, who declined to be identified because he was discussing intelligence reports, said that at least one of the planes had been flown by an Iranian pilot. A senior Iraqi official, however, insisted that the aircraft were being piloted only by Iraqis. He said that the planes originally belonged to the Iraqi Air Force and were flown to Iran during the 1991 Persian Gulf War for safekeeping.
一名美国官员表示，其中至少有一架飞机由伊朗人驾驶。由于讨论的是情报报告，这名官员要求不具名。然而，伊拉克的一名高级官员坚称，驾驶飞机的都是伊拉克人。他表示，这些飞机最初归伊拉克空军所有，在1991年海湾战争期间飞往伊朗，以获得妥善保管。
“Iran, understating the urgency of our situation on the ground, gave us some of our own planes back,” said the Iraqi official, who declined to be named because he was discussing military preparations in Iraq.
这名伊拉克官员说，“伊朗明白地面局势的紧迫性，将我们的部分飞机送了回来。”由于讨论的是战备事宜，这名官员要求不具名。
The deployment of the Su-25s, which the Iraqi Ministry of Defense showed being loaded with bombs and ammunition, came amid reports that an Iranian officer had recently been killed near Samarra where Iraqi forces are trying to defend a Shia shrine against an ISIS attack. Two American officials said that the Iranian, whom the Iranian IRNA news agency identified as Col. Shoja’at Alamdari Mourjani, had been with an Iranian drone unit and was hit by an ISIS mortar attack. The senior Iraqi official insisted, however, that the dead man was an Iranian religious tourist who worked in the aviation industry in Iran.
伊拉克国防部展示了装备有炸弹及弹药的苏-25攻击机。部署这几架苏-25的时机正值有报道称，一名伊朗军官最近在萨马拉附近遇难。伊拉克军队正试图保卫萨马拉的一座什叶派圣地免遭ISIS的攻击。两名美国官员表示，这名伊朗人是该国无人机队的成员，遭到了ISIS的迫击炮袭击。伊朗新闻机构伊斯兰共和国通讯社(IRNA)称此人为舒杰阿特·阿拉姆德雷·穆加尼上校(Col. Shoja’at Alamdari Mourjani)。但伊拉克的上述高级官员坚称，死者是一名虔诚的伊朗游客，在伊朗的航空业工作。
Iraq’s need for air power is clear. Its air force has consisted of several Cessna planes that carry American-supplied Hellfire missiles and an assortment of American and Russian-supplied helicopters, which the Iraqi military used during its recent fight with ISIS in Tikrit.
很明显，伊拉克需要增强空中力量。伊拉克空军仅有几架载有美式“地狱火”(Hellfire)导弹的塞斯纳(Cessna)飞机，还有一些鱼龙混杂的美制及俄制直升机。伊拉克最近就是利用这些飞机在提克里特与ISIS作战。
The United States has sold Iraq F-16 warplanes, the first of which was to have been sent this fall. But the delivery date is now uncertain since the American contractors who have supported the program were evacuated from the Balad air base during the ISIS offensive. Iraq recently announced that it was also buying Su-25s from Russia, but those aircraft are not yet believed to be in operation. Iran’s provision of the Su-25s follows its decision to send a fleet of Ababil surveillance drones, an intelligence unit to intercept communications and advisers.
美国向伊拉克出售了一批F-16战机，首架战机原定于今年秋天交付。然而，这一交付日期如今存在变数，因为在ISIS展开攻势期间，为该项目提供支持的美国承包商从巴拉德空军基地撤离。伊拉克最近宣布，它也在从俄罗斯购置一批苏-25攻击机，但据信，这些飞机目前尚未投入使用。在提供这三架苏-25之前，伊朗还决定派遣一支小型燕子(Ababil)无人侦察机编队、用以拦截通讯的一支情报队伍，以及若干顾问人员。
Like the Iranian drone and intelligence units, the aircraft are based at the Rasheed Air Base in Baghdad. Similar to the American A-10 aircraft, the Su-25 is designed for ground attacks. It is equipped with a 30-millimeter cannon, and armed with rockets and bombs, and could be effective against ISIS convoys and concentrations of ISIS fights, said Joseph Dempsey, a military analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
与伊朗派出的无人机和情报队伍一样，这几架飞机以巴格达拉希德空军基地作为大本营。与美国的A-10战机相似，苏-25用于进行地面攻击。伦敦国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)的军事分析师约瑟夫·邓普西(Joseph Dempsey)称，它配有一架口径30毫米的大炮，并装有火箭弹和炸弹，能够对ISIS的车队和集中战斗进行有效打击。
An American official said that Su-25s had already carried out missions over Ramadi, Fallujah in western Iraq and the Baiji refinery in northern Iraq. The official did not say if the aircraft dropped any bombs, but added that Iran had sent more Revolutionary Guards ground forces and Air Force personnel to Iraq.
一名美国官员表示，这几架苏-25攻击机已经开始在伊拉克西部的拉马迪和费卢杰，以及伊拉克北部的拜伊吉炼油厂上空执行任务。该官员并未透露，飞机是否曾投掷炸弹，但又说伊朗已向伊拉克增派了革命卫队(Revolutionary Guard)地面部队和空军人员。
Some influential members of the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday voiced concerns about Iran’s growing presence in Iraq after being briefed by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at a closed meeting of the committee. “They’ve got a heavy involvement at this point,” said Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, who is also the senior Republican on the Intelligence Committee. “I don’t trust the Iranians, so I’m assuming they’re there for mischievous purposes and for their own self-interest.”
周二，美国参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)在闭门会议中听取了国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)和参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)的通报，会后，委员会的一些重量级成员表达了他们对伊朗越来越多地干预伊拉克事务的担心。“他们目前在深入参与此事，”来自佐治亚的共和党参议员萨克斯比·钱布利斯(Saxby Chambliss)说。他同时也是参议院情报委员会(Intelligence Committee)的资深委员。“我不信任伊朗人，所以我认为他们在那里不怀好意，是为了一己之私。”