TEHRAN, Iran — Iran’s highest Revolutionary Guards commander issued a threat against Israel after the death of an Iranian general in an Israeli helicopter strike along the border with Syria, saying that “destructive thunderbolts” await.
伊朗德黑兰——一名伊朗将领在以色列对叙利亚边境地区发动的直升机袭击行动中丧生，伊朗革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)总司令对以色列发出威胁称，“具有摧毁力的闪电”即将到来。
The commander, Mohammad Ali Jafari, said the fact that an Iranian general was so close to Israeli territory proved that Iran’s power “has passed over geographical borders,” Mr. Jafari added, in a statement distributed by state news media on Tuesday.
周二，官方新闻媒体纷纷引述司令穆罕默德·阿里·贾法里(Mohammad Ali Jafari)的声明。贾法里表示，伊朗将领距离以色列领土如此之近，这一事实证明，伊朗的势力“已经跨越了地理边界”。
The Iranian general, Mohammad Ali Allahdadi, was killed along with a Hezbollah commander and the son of the group’s late military leader, Imad Mughniyeh, in Sunday’s attack on a Hezbollah convoy near the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.
周日，真主党(Hezbollah)车队在以色列控制的戈兰高地附近遭袭，伊朗将领穆罕默德·阿里·阿拉达迪(Mohammad Ali Allahdadi)在袭击中丧命，一同遇难的还有一名真主党指挥官，以及该组织已故军事领导人伊迈德·穆格尼耶(Imad Mughniyeh)的儿子。
After issuing a ritual denunciation of the “Zionist regime,” Mr. Jafari said: “These martyrdoms prove that we should not distance ourselves from the jihad, the Zionists should prepare themselves for our shattering thunderbolt. They have experienced our rage in the past.”
在对“犹太复国主义政权”进行惯常的谴责之后，贾法里说，“这些造成人员牺牲的事件说明，我们不应该远离圣战，犹太复国主义者应该做好准备，接受我们的毁灭性打击。他们过去尝到过激怒我们的苦果。”
Iran has often threatened Israel with retaliation after attacks on its regional allies, Hezbollah and Syria, and an Iranian analyst said that the commander’s threats, like others in the past, were mostly for domestic consumption.
伊朗经常在以色列对其地区盟友——真主党和叙利亚发动攻击后，发出威胁，称要进行报复，一名伊朗分析人士表示，就像过去一样，这名将领发出的威胁主要是说给国内民众听的。
“He is addressing his troops after some of them were martyred,” said Mashallah Shamsolvaezin, an Iranian Arab affairs analyst. “Just like Israel makes statements for domestic consumption, we do too.”
“在一些士兵牺牲后，他向军队发表演讲，”关注阿拉伯世界的伊朗分析人士穆沙拉姆·沙姆斯瓦尔辛(Mashallah Shamsolvaezin)说。“就像以色列为了安抚国内民众发表演讲一样，我们也这样做。”
More important, said an Iranian analyst close to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is the country’s growing willingness to acknowledge its military expansion in the region.
一名与伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)关系密切的伊朗分析人士表示，更重要的是，该国越来越愿意承认自己在这一地区的军事扩张。
“Our officials and military commanders are not shy of openly saying that Iran is supporting the resistance,” said the analyst, Hamid Reza Taraghi. “Bear in mind that it has been his eminence, the supreme leader, who first proposed that the West Bank must be armed against the Zionists. Similar remarks are merely echoes of his commands.”
“我们的官员和军队将领并不回避公开表明，伊朗支持抵抗行动，”上述分析人士哈米德-礼萨·塔拉吉(Hamid-Reza Taraghi)说。“要记住，这一直是由最高领袖主导的，首先提出约旦河西岸必须武装起来反抗犹太复国主义者的正是他。类似的言辞不过是对其指令的附和。”
On Tuesday, Israel denied that the helicopter attack had been aimed against the commanders, with Reuters quoting an anonymous official as saying that Israel believed that it was attacking only low-ranking guerrillas.
周二，以色列否认此次直升机袭击行动针对的是这些将领，路透社(Reuters)援引一名匿名官员的话称，以色列认为他们攻击的只是低级别的游击队。
Asked if Israel expected Iranian or Hezbollah retaliation for the airstrike, the official said: “They are almost certain to respond. We are anticipating that, but I think it’s a fair assumption that a major escalation is not in the interest of either side.”
在被问及以色列是否认为伊朗或真主党会为此次空袭开展报复行动时，这名官员表示，“他们几乎肯定会有所回应。我们预料到了，但我觉得，局势严重升级对双方都不利，这是一种合理的设想。”
“We did not expect the outcome in terms of the stature of those killed — certainly not the Iranian general,” the official told Reuters. “We thought we were hitting an enemy field unit that was on its way to carry out an attack on us at the frontier fence. We got the alert, we spotted the vehicle, identified it was an enemy vehicle and took the shot. We saw this as a limited tactical operation.”
“我们没有预料到受到攻击的人员的地位如此之高，我们绝对不是针对伊朗将领，”这名官员告诉路透社。“我们认为我们攻击的是一支正在行进，准备在边界隔离网处攻击我们的敌军野战部队。我们得到警告，确定了车辆所在的位置，然后确认那是敌军的车辆，便出手攻击。我们当时认为这是一次有限的战术行动。”