TEHRAN — Risking his political standing, Iran’s president stressed on Monday that he was determined to cinch a nuclear deal and prepared to take on the conservative forces who would prefer not to see an agreement with the West, even if that means continued economic sanctions on Iran.
德黑兰——周一，伊朗总统冒着政治地位不保的风险强调，他已经决定要达成一项核协议，并准备对那些宁可继续被制裁也不希望与西方达成协议的伊朗保守势力开战。
“Some people may not like to see the sanctions lifted,” the president, Hassan Rouhani, said as Iranian negotiators and their United States counterparts resumed talks in Geneva. “Their numbers are few, and they want to muddy the waters.”
“有些人可能不想看到制裁被解除，”伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)说，当时伊朗和美国的谈判代表正在日内瓦继续谈话。“他们的人数并不多，却想把水搅浑。”
A deadline for those talks was extended by seven months after the parties failed to conclude a deal in November. Mr. Rouhani is continuing to maintain that a deal will be concluded. His foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said last month that an agreement could be reached in a matter of “weeks.”
11月，各方未能达成协议，相关谈话的最后期限便被延长了七个月。鲁哈尼继续坚称，各方最终会达成协议。伊朗外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)上个月表示，各方将于“数周”之内达成协议。
Both men have tied their political future to the deal, analysts say. Despite the setbacks in the talks, Mr. Rouhani stays on message on what he says is Iran’s bright future.
分析人士表示，他们二人都把自己的政治前途与这份协议联系在了一起。虽然谈判受挫，鲁哈尼仍然坚持他对伊朗美好未来的描画。
Mr. Rouhani came to office this year promising not just to strike a nuclear deal that would lift economic sanctions but to end Iran’s isolation from the world economy and to promote individual freedoms.
在今年上台时，鲁哈尼承诺不仅会签订一份解除经济制裁的核协议，而且还会结束将伊朗孤立于世界经济之外的制裁，鼓励个人自由。
“The people will achieve their rights,” Mr. Rouhani said. “You should also prepare for interaction with the world,” he told an audience of central bank employees. “You should know that in the near future many investors will come to our country.”
“人民将实现他们的权利，”鲁哈尼说。“你们也应该准备与世界互动，”他告诉央行员工。“你们应该知道，在不久的将来，许多投资者将来到我们国家。”
He acknowledged that there are groups in Iran opposed to a nuclear deal, presumably those who benefited from sanctions by tightening their grip on the economy, often officials connected to hard-line clerics and commanders.
他承认，伊朗有些群体反对核协议，想必是那些因为制裁而获益的人，因为他们借此加强了对经济的控制，这些人往往是与强硬派宗教领袖和指挥官有联系的官员。
Arrayed against these powerful figures is the entire Iranian elite, Mr. Rouhani said.
鲁哈尼表示，整个伊朗精英阶层都反对这些势力强大的人物。
“The overwhelming majority of our nation — intellectuals, academics, theologians, the greats and the leadership — are in favor of getting the sanctions removed.”
“我国的绝大部分人——知识分子、学者、神学家、伟人和领导层——都赞成解除制裁。”
United States and Iranian diplomats had a preliminary meeting on Iran’s nuclear program in Geneva on Monday before wider talks between Iran and six world powers get underway on Wednesday. Iran, pressured by a collapse in oil prices as well as inflation and lagging growth, wants sanctions lifted, while the world powers are demanding more control over Iran’s nuclear facilities.
周一，美国和伊朗外交官在日内瓦就伊朗核项目提前召开了一次会议。周三，伊朗和六个世界大国将进行更广泛的谈判。由于石油价格暴跌、通货膨胀和经济增长滞后而受到压力的伊朗希望能解除制裁，而世界大国则要求对伊朗的核设施进行更多控制。