BEIRUT — Islamic State militants have destroyed a temple at the ancient ruins of Palmyra in Syria, activists said on Sunday, realizing one of archaeologists’ worst fears for the 2,000-year-old Roman-era city after the extremists seized it and beheaded a local scholar.
贝鲁特——活动人士周日表示，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子在叙利亚巴尔米拉古城遗址摧毁了一座神庙。考古学者极为担心的一种情况变成了现实。此前，极端分子占据了这座有2000年历史的罗马时代的城镇，并将一名当地学者斩首。
Palmyra, one of the Middle East’s most spectacular archaeological sites and a Unesco World Heritage site, sits near the modern Syrian city of the same name. Activists said that the militants used explosives to blow up the Baalshamin Temple on its sprawling grounds, and that the blast was so powerful it also damaged some of the Roman columns around it.
巴尔米拉(Palmyra)是中东的最壮观的考古遗址之一，也是联合国教科文组织(Unesco)认定的世界遗产，它座落在同名的叙利亚现代城市附近。活动人士表示，武装分子使用炸药炸毁了该区域的巴尔夏明神庙(Baalshamin Temple)，爆炸的强大威力同时也令周围的一些罗马柱受损。
When the destruction occurred was unclear. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on Sunday night that the temple was blown up a month ago. An activist based in Turkey, Osama al-Khatib, who is from Palmyra, said the temple was blown up on Sunday. Both relied on information from those still in Palmyra, and the discrepancy in their accounts could not be immediately reconciled.
破坏发生的具体时间尚不清楚。总部设在英国的叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)周日晚表示，神庙在一个月前就被炸毁了。而来自巴尔米拉、现居土耳其的活动人士乌萨马·哈提卜(Osama al-Khatib)说，神庙是在周日被炸毁的。他们的消息来源都是留在巴尔米拉的居民，双方说法的差异无法立即澄清。
The Sunni extremists, who have imposed a violent interpretation of Islamic law across territory they control in Syria and Iraq, claim ancient relics promote idolatry and say that they are destroying them as part of their purge of paganism. However, it is also believed that they sell off looted antiquities, bringing in significant sums of cash.
这些逊尼派极端分子在叙利亚和伊拉克控制了大片区域，并在那里强制实施伊斯兰教法的暴力解释版本。他们声称，那些古迹推崇偶像崇拜，破坏它们是清除异教活动的一部分。但是，人们也相信他们出售过被掠夺的文物，并从中获得了大笔现金。
Mr. Khatib said the Baalshamin Temple is about 550 yards from Palmyra’s famous amphitheater, where the group killed more than 20 Syrian soldiers after it captured the historic town in May.
哈提卜说，巴尔夏明神庙与巴尔米拉著名的圆形剧场相隔大约550码（约500米）。伊斯兰国今年5月占领这座历史名城时，曾在圆形剧场杀害过20多名叙利亚士兵。
The temple dates to the first century and is dedicated to the Phoenician god of storms and fertilizing rains.
这座神庙始建于公元1世纪，供奉着腓尼基人的风暴和降雨施肥之神。
The head of Unesco, Irina Bokova, said on Friday that Islamic State extremists in Syria and Iraq were engaged in the “most brutal, systematic” destruction of ancient sites since World War II, a stark warning that came hours after militants demolished the St. Elian Monastery, in central Syria, which housed a fifth-century tomb and served as a major pilgrimage site.
联合国教科文组织总干事伊琳娜·博科娃(Irina Bokova)周五称，叙利亚和伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国极端分子对古迹的破坏，是二战以来“最野蛮、最具系统性的”。这则措辞严厉的警告发布于武装分子拆毁圣埃利安修道院(St. Elian Monastery)的数小时之后。该修道院位于叙利亚中部，是5世纪一座坟墓的安放处，也是一处重要的朝圣地。
Last week Khalid al-Asaad, 81, the retired chief of antiquities for Palmyra, was beheaded by Islamic State militants, and his body was then suspended with red twine by its wrists from a traffic light.
上周，81岁的哈利德·阿萨德(Khalid al-Asaad)被伊斯兰国武装分子斩首。阿萨德退休之前曾是巴尔米拉的文物负责人。他的躯体被红色麻绳捆住了手腕，悬挂在一个红绿灯上。