BAGHDAD — Iraq’s politicians were struggling to meet the constitutional deadline to form a new government when, in an isolated village, two masked men stepped into a Sunni mosque and opened fire on Friday, killing dozens of worshipers.
巴格达——就在伊拉克政客们努力在宪法最后期限前组建新政府的时候，两名蒙面男子上周五走进一个位于偏远村庄的逊尼派清真寺，开枪打死了数十名信徒。
Within hours, Sunni leaders said they were pulling out of the negotiations, and the political process was suddenly jammed again by the same sectarian rifts that have long bedeviled this country.
事件发生后几个小时内，逊尼派领导人说，他们将退出谈判，让这里的政治进程突然被长期困扰这个国家的宗派分裂再次卡住。
The formation of a new, inclusive government that could command some support from both Sunnis and Shiites is widely seen as a vital first step in confronting jihadists from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, who have stormed into Iraq, seizing territory and taking control of major cities in the north and west. President Obama has hailed the appointment of a new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, and many observers hope that Mr. Abadi will undo the policies of his predecessor, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who has been accused of marginalizing Iraq’s Sunni minority and, in effect, opening the way for the advance of the Sunni militant group.
组建一个可能得到来自逊尼派和来自什叶派的某种支持的包容性新政府，被广泛看作是抵御伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS)圣战者的至关重要的第一步，这些圣战者已冲进伊拉克，攻占了地盘，控制了北部和西部的主要城市。奥巴马总统曾对任命海德尔·阿巴迪为新总理表示称赞，许多观察家希望阿巴迪将废止其前任努里·卡迈勒·马利基的政策，马利基被指责将伊拉克的少数派逊尼派边缘化，从而在事实上给逊尼派激进组织的发展开辟了道路。
But only a new government can undo those policies, which included the revitalization of Shiite militias, the arrests of many Sunni men, and military strikes on Sunni areas in which civilians were killed.
但是，只有组建新政府才能废止那些政策，包括振兴什叶派民兵，逮捕许多逊尼派男子，以及对逊尼派地区进行军事打击，导致平民死亡等。
The problem here now, highlighted by the swift fallout from the mosque attack, is that sectarian polarization has grown so deep that it could prevent such a government from being formed.
伊拉克现在的问题，凸显在这次清真寺袭击所迅速产生的后果上，那就是这里的宗派两极分化已变得如此之深，以至于可能会阻止新政府的形成。
Sunnis and Shiites tend to view many of the country’s most pressing issues through profoundly different lenses, making compromise difficult. Shiite leaders speak of ISIS as a terrorist threat that must be battled with all available means. Some have even accused Sunni leaders of providing political cover for the extremists.
逊尼派和什叶派倾向于从完全不同的角度看待这个国家的许多最紧迫的问题，这让达成妥协变得很困难。什叶派领导人称ISIS为构成威胁的恐怖分子，必须全力以赴地与其战斗。有些领导人甚至指责逊尼派领袖为极端分子提供政治保护。
“Politicians are responsible for the security collapse in some provinces,” Qais al-Khazali, the head of Asaib Ahl al-Haq, the Shiite militia that may be the most feared by Sunnis, said in a statement. “They are still in the stage of being loyal to their parties, not to Iraq,” he said.
“政客们对一些省份公共安全的瓦解负有责任。他们仍处在忠于自己政党的阶段，而不是忠于伊拉克，”卡伊斯·卡扎利(Qais al-Khazali)在一份声明中说，他是什叶派民兵“正义联盟”(Asaib Ahl al-Haq)的领导人，这支民兵可能是逊尼派最怕的。
Sunni leaders also condemn ISIS, but they say that the group exploited a vacuum that the government created by marginalizing their regions and abusing their people.
逊尼派领袖也谴责ISIS，但他们说，ISIS钻了政府边缘化逊尼派地区、恶虐对待那里的人民的空子。
“The only way to fight ISIS is to support the citizens who lost their dignity and their rights under the old government,” said Ahmed al-Dulaimi, the governor of Anbar Province, which is now largely held by ISIS.
“与ISIS作战的唯一方法就是支持那些被上届政府剥夺了尊严和权利的公民，”安巴尔省省长艾哈迈德·杜莱米(Ahmed al-Dulaimi)说，安巴尔省的大部地区已经被ISIS占领。
Similar rifts were clear on Saturday as political leaders responded to the attack that killed dozens of Sunni worshipers in a mosque in Diyala Province.
类似的裂痕也在政治领导人周六对袭击事件所做的回应中清晰可见，袭击导致在迪亚拉省一座清真寺的数十名逊尼派信徒死亡。
Salim al-Jibouri, the Sunni speaker of Parliament, called for political unity and said the attack sought to “foil all the efforts that have been made to form a government.”
国民议会的逊尼派议长萨利姆·吉布利(Salim al-Jibouri)呼吁政治团结，并说这次袭击是企图“破坏为组建政府已经做出的努力。”
The two gunmen who carried out the attack melted into the countryside afterward, and their identities were not clear. But Mr. Jibouri and others appeared to assume that they were Shiite militiamen. Mr. Jibouri said a committee had been sent to investigate the attack and would report within two days. “As we condemn what ISIS does, we also have to denounce what the militias are doing,” Mr. Jibouri said.
那两个开枪者在袭击之后消失在农村，他们的身份尚不清楚。但吉布利和其他人看来都认为他们是什叶派民兵。吉布利说，已派了一个委员会前往调查，两天之内将提交报告。“正如我们谴责ISIS的所作所为，我们也有谴责民兵的做法，”吉布利说。
By contrast, Shiite leaders blamed ISIS for the mosque attack. The radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr called it “a clear sectarian escalation” and said it had the “explicit touch of ISIS.”
与此相比，什叶派领导人则指责ISIS袭击了清真寺。什叶派的激进神职人员穆克塔达·萨德尔(Moktada al-Sadr)说袭击是“宗派冲突的明显升级”，并称其带有“ISIS的清晰痕迹”。
The negotiations to form a new government were already fraught before the attack, as Sunni politicians pushed demands that they considered necessary but had little chance of being accepted. They included a halt to government shelling and airstrikes on Sunni areas where ISIS is present; the withdrawal of Shiite militias from predominantly Sunni cities; the release of Sunni detainees who have not been convicted of crimes; the dismissal of criminal charges against a number of Sunni politicians, which they call politically motivated; and the cancellation of the law banning former members of Saddam Hussein’s regime from holding government posts.
组建新政府的谈判在袭击发生前就已困难重重，逊尼派政客提出了他们认为必要的要求，但这些要求被接受的可能性不大。包括政府停止炮击和空袭有ISIS出没的逊尼派地区；从逊尼派为主的城市撤出什叶派民兵；释放没有被定罪的逊尼派在押者；撤销对几位逊尼派政客的刑事指控，他们说指控是出于政治动机；以及废除禁止曾为萨达姆·侯赛因政权效力的人在政府担任职位的法律。
Foreign diplomats in Baghdad were concerned that those demands would prevent a deal, and urged Sunni leaders to be more flexible.
巴格达的外国外交官担心，这些要求会阻止谈判达成协议，他们敦促逊尼派领导人要更灵活一点。
Zaid al-Ali, a former legal adviser to the United Nations in Iraq and the author of a book on Iraq’s future, said the American insistence on inclusive politics was misguided. Iraq’s recent governments have included representatives from all the major sects, he noted, “But this is not a solution — it has never translated into the trickle-down politics that everyone assumed it would.”
联合国在伊拉克的原法律顾问扎伊德·阿里(Zaid al-Ali)说，美国坚持要伊拉克组建包容性政府的做法不对头，阿里写过一本关于伊拉克未来的书。他指出，伊拉克的上届政府已将主要教派的代表包括进来，“但是，这不是一个解决方案，它从来都没有转化为那种人们都以为会出现的涓滴政治。”