TEHRAN — Iran tested a new guided long-range ballistic missile on Sunday, hours before Parliament, in a rowdy session, approved the generalities of the nuclear agreement reached in July between Iran and world powers, the state news agency IRNA reported.
德黑兰——据伊朗国家新闻社IRNA报道，周日，伊朗议会在一片喧闹中决定，支持伊朗与世界大国在7月达成的核协议的大部分内容，而几个小时之前，伊朗刚刚试射了一枚新型制导远程弹道导弹。
The missile launch may have violated the terms of the agreement, reached in Vienna with six world powers. According to some readings of the deal, it placed restrictions on Iran’s ambitious missile program.
此次导弹发射行动可能违反了伊朗在维也纳与六个世界大国达成的协议的条款。从部分公布内容看，该协议对伊朗野心勃勃的导弹项目进行了限制。
Experts have been debating the interpretation of a United Nations Security Council resolution, adopted a few days after the accord was agreed upon, that bars Iran from developing missiles “designed to carry nuclear warheads.”
联合国安全理事会在该协议达成几天后通过了一项决议，禁止伊朗研发“用于携带核弹头”的导弹，专家们对如何解读该决议仍存在争议。
Hard-line Iranian officials had for months been demanding new missile tests, a common practice before the negotiations over the country’s nuclear program began in 2013.
伊朗的强硬派官员数月来一直要求试射新导弹，这是伊朗2013年开启核项目谈判之前的惯常做法。
The missile — named Emad, or pillar — is a step up from Iran’s Shahab-3 missiles because it can be guided toward its target, the Iranian defense minister, Hossein Dehghan, told the semiofficial Fars news agency. In recent decades, with Iran’s air force plagued by economic sanctions and other restrictions, the country has invested heavily in its nuclear program and has produced missiles that can reach as far as Europe.
伊朗国防部长侯赛因·德赫罕(Hossein Dehghan)告诉半官方的法尔斯通讯社(Fars)，这种名为支柱(Emad)的导弹是伊朗流星-3型(Shahab-3)导弹的升级版，因为该导弹可精确制导。近几十年来，随着伊朗空军受到经济制裁及其他限制的困扰，伊朗投入巨资发展核项目，并制造了射程远至欧洲的导弹。
“We don’t seek permission from anyone to strengthen our defense and missile capabilities,” Mr. Dehghan said.
德赫罕表示，“我们提高防御和导弹能力不用获得任何人的许可。”
Also on Sunday, members of Parliament voted in favor of a bill approving the generalities of the nuclear agreement, but they had been denied information on its details. State television broadcast the session using only audio and archived images of Parliament.
周日，议会成员还投票支持了一项批准核协议大部分内容的议案，但没有透露相关细节信息。国家电视台只通过音频和议会的档案图片对会议进行了播报。
The head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, Ali Akbar Salehi, who had gone to Parliament to defend the deal, said in a speech that a member had threatened to kill him and bury his body “in the cement of the Arak heavy-water reactor.”
伊朗原子能组织(Atomic Energy Organization of Iran)负责人阿里·阿克巴尔·萨利希(Ali Akbar Salehi)曾在议会为该协议辩解。他发表讲话时表示，一名成员威胁要杀了他，并将他的遗体埋在“阿拉克重水反应堆的水泥中”。
Under the nuclear agreement, a heavy-water plant in Arak will be redesigned and turned into a relatively less dangerous light-water reactor. The threat, which sounded like something from an American gangster film, was made in front of witnesses by a hard-line representative, Ruhollah Hosseinian, according to reports.
根据该核协议，阿拉克重水反应堆将会被重新设计成危险性相对较低的轻水反应堆。根据报道，这段仿佛出自美国黑帮片的威胁来自伊朗强硬派代表拉鲁霍拉·侯赛尼扬(Ruhollah Hosseinian)，当时现场有目击证人。
The bill allows the government to stop carrying out the nuclear agreement if the six world powers fail to lift sanctions.
该议案允许政府在六个世界大国没有解除制裁的情况下，停止实施核协议。