VIENNA — International inspectors confirmed Saturday that Iran had dismantled large sections of its nuclear program, as agreed in a historic agreement last summer, paving the way for the lifting of oil and financial sanctions by the United States and other world powers.
维也纳——国际核查人员在周六确认，伊朗履行了去年夏季达成的历史性协议，拆除了其核计划的大量设施，为解除美国等世界大国对伊朗实施的石油及金融制裁铺平了道路。
The announcement came just hours after Iran said it had released four Americans, including a Washington Post reporter, Jason Rezaian, as part of a prisoner swap with the United States. U.S. officials said the two deals were negotiated separately, but Secretary of State John Kerry had made it clear in recent weeks that he was engaged in behind-the-scenes talks on the fate of the Americans, and clearly wanted the issue cleared up before the nuclear agreement went into effect.
就在上述声明公布的几小时之前，伊朗表示已释放四名美国人，其中包括《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)记者贾森·礼萨安(Jason Rezaian)，以此作为与美国达成的囚徒交换计划的一部分。美国官员称这两项协议是通过互不关联的谈判达成的，但国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)最近几周明确表示，他参与了涉及这些美国人命运的幕后谈判，明显希望该问题在核协议生效前得到解决。
In a statement, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Yukiya Amano, said that “agency inspectors on the ground verified that Iran has carried out all measures required under the JCPOA, to enable implementation day to occur,” using the abbreviation for the accord, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)总干事天野之弥(Yukiya Amano)在声明中表示，“现场的核查人员证实，伊朗完成了开始执行联合全面行动计划（Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action，简称JCPOA)所要求的全部必要步骤。”
In recent weeks, Iran has shipped 98 percent of its nuclear fuel out of the country, destroyed the innards of a major plutonium-producing reactor and mothballed more than 12,000 of the centrifuges that enrich uranium.
最近几周里，伊朗将98%的核燃料运送出国，摧毁了一座主要的钚反应堆的内部构造，并封存了1.2万余台浓缩铀的离心机。
For President Barack Obama, the lifting of the sanctions — a step attacked by Republicans in Congress, who voted unanimously against the nuclear deal — is a major step in ending more than three decades of hostility between the two countries. In the waning months of his presidency, it fulfills a promise Obama made to reverse course in the countries' relations, and will clearly be one of the defining elements of his legacy.
对于美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马来说，解除制裁——此举遭到共和党议员的抨击，他们曾一致投票反对这项核协议——是朝着终结两国30多年来的敌对状态迈出的重要一步。在总统任期的最后几个月，此举能实现奥巴马曾经做出的扭转两国关系的承诺，显然会成为其政绩的一项决定性要素。
Iran's actions, he has argued, will assure the United States at least a year's notice if Iran races to build a bomb, and it ends peacefully a confrontation that led to some of the most severe economic sanctions ever, sabotage of Iran's facilities by a U.S.-Israeli cyberoperation and periodic threats of military action if Iran failed to relent. His critics in Congress claim that the effort is dangerously naïve, and that Iran will use the roughly $100 billion in frozen assets it will receive to support terrorism and other misadventures and, after a few years, when attention has turned elsewhere, will return to surreptitiously building a nuclear weapon.
他提出，伊朗采取的这些措施将能保证，如果该国赶制核弹，美国至少能提前一年获知。此举还和平地终结了两国的对立状态。这种对立导致美国采取了有史以来最为严厉的经济制裁措施，美国和以色列还联合开展了黑客行动来破坏伊朗的核设施，并不时威胁，如果伊朗不退让，美国将会开展军事行动。批评奥巴马的国会议员声称，这种做法过于天真，非常危险，伊朗将会利用解冻的大约1000亿美元资产来支持恐怖主义和其他恶行，几年之后，当外界的注意力转移到其他地方时，伊朗会重新秘密打造核武器。
Speaking to reporters late Saturday night at the IAEA's headquarters overlooking the Danube here, Kerry said that he had now achieved his goal: rolling back Iran's facilities so far that the United States would have at least a year's notice if the country were to race for a bomb. “We would know it almost immediately and we would have time to respond appropriately,” he said.
克里周六深夜在俯瞰多瑙河的国际原子能机构总部对记者们表示，他现在实现了目标：在很大程度上削弱了伊朗的核设施，如果伊朗赶制核弹，美国至少有一年的回旋余地。“我们会几乎立即知道，有时间做出适当回应，”他说。
The completion of the deal comes at a crucial time for the Iranian government of President Hassan Rouhani, who came to power vowing to get rid of the crippling sanctions and faces a critical parliamentary election at the end of February. Iranian officials raced to dismantle the facilities quickly — U.S. intelligence agencies had estimated it would take far longer — so that they could go to the polls with news that the frozen assets, mostly from oil sales, had been released, and could be used to prop up an ailing, contracting economy.
该协议的实施时机，正值伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)领导的政府处于关键期。上台执政时，他承诺让伊朗摆脱带来极大破坏的制裁。他将在2月末迎来至关重要的议会选举。美国情报机构原本预计他们花费的时间要长得多，但伊朗官员快速拆除了核设施，以便在举行投票时能够宣布，资产——主要来自石油销售——已被解冻，可以用来支撑该国陷入萎缩的疲弱经济的发展。