WASHINGTON — The Islamic State is expanding beyond its base in Syria and Iraq to establish militant affiliates in Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt and Libya, American intelligence officials assert, raising the prospect of a new global war on terror.
华盛顿——美国情报官员称，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)正在向叙利亚和伊拉克基地以外的地方扩张，在阿富汗、阿尔及利亚、埃及和利比亚建立武装分支机构，一场新的全球反恐战争显得愈发真切起来。
Intelligence officials estimate that the group’s fighters number 20,000 to 31,500 in Syria and Iraq. There are less formal pledges of support from “probably at least a couple hundred extremists” in countries such as Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and Yemen, according to an American counterterrorism official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss confidential information about the group.
情报官员估计，该组织在叙利亚和伊拉克有2到3.15万名武装分子。一位美国反恐官员说，在约旦、黎巴嫩、沙特阿拉伯、突尼斯和也门等国家，“可能有至少数百名极端分子”对该组织做出了不那么正式的效忠宣誓。由于讨论的是有关该组织的保密信息，这名官员要求不具名。
Lt. Gen. Vincent R. Stewart, the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, said in an assessment this month that the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, was “beginning to assemble a growing international footprint.” Nicholas Rasmussen, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, echoed General Stewart’s analysis in testimony before Congress last week.
国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)局长文森特·R·斯图尔特中将(Vincent R. Stewart)本月在一份评估报告中说，伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）的“国际存在正日益鲜明起来”。美国国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)主任尼古拉斯·拉斯穆森(Nicholas Rasmussen)上周在国会发表证词时重申了斯图尔特中将的结论。
But it is unclear how effective these affiliates are, or to what extent this is an opportunistic rebranding by some jihadist upstarts hoping to draft new members by playing off the notoriety of the Islamic State.
但目前尚不清楚这些分支机构的能力如何，也不清楚这在多大程度上是部分圣战分子的一次投机性的品牌重塑行动，以期利用伊斯兰国的名气来招募新成员。
Critics fear such assessments will once again enmesh the United States in a protracted, hydra-headed conflict as President Obama appeals to Congress for new war powers to fight the Islamic State. “I’m loath to write another blank check justifying the use of American troops just about anywhere,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.
批评人士担心，这样的评估会令美国再次卷入一次漫长而艰难的冲突，因为奥巴马总统正在向国会申请与伊斯兰国开战的新战争授权。“我不愿意给总统开一张空白的支票，再次为美国在任何地方使用武力背书，”众议院情报委员会民主党高级官员、加利福尼亚州众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)说。
The sudden proliferation of Islamic State affiliates and loyalist fighters motivated the White House’s push to give Mr. Obama and his successor new authority to pursue the group wherever its followers emerge — just as he and President George W. Bush hunted Qaeda franchises outside the group’s headquarters, first in Afghanistan and then in Pakistan, for the past decade.
伊斯兰国分支机构和发誓效忠该组织的武装分子的突然增多，促使白宫努力为奥巴马及其继任者争取新的授权、从而在该组织成员出没的任何地方对其实施打击——就像过去10年，他和总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在基地组织的大本营——先是在阿富汗，后来在巴基斯坦——之外打击其分支机构一样。
“We don’t want anybody in ISIL to be left with the impression that if they move to some neighboring country, that they will be essentially in a safe haven and not within the range of United States capability,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said on Wednesday.
“我们不希望给伊斯兰国的任何成员留下这样的印象，那就是如果他们转移到某个邻国，就进入了一个避难所，逃出了美国的打击范围，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)周三表示。
The Islamic State began attracting pledges of allegiance from groups and individual fighters after it declared the formation of a caliphate, or religious state, in June 2014. Counterterrorism analysts say it is using Al Qaeda’s franchise structure to expand its geographic reach, but without Al Qaeda’s rigorous, multiyear application process. This could allow its franchises to grow faster, easier and farther.
在2014年6月宣布建立哈里发国，即宗教国家之后，伊斯兰国开始赢得一些组织和武装分子的效忠承诺。反恐分析人士说，该组织正在采用基地组织的分支结构，扩大地域上的影响范围，但却没有基地组织那种严格执行了多年的申请流程。这可能会令伊斯兰国的分支机构扩张地更快、更容易，范围也更广。
“Factions which were at one time part of Al Qaeda and its affiliates, as well as groups loyal to it or in some ways working in tandem with it, have moved on to what they see as more of a winning group,” said Steven Stalinsky, executive director of the Middle East Media Research Institute in Washington, which monitors Arabic-language news media and websites.
“曾经属于基地组织及其分支机构的派别，以及效忠于基地组织，或以某些方式与它协同工作的组织，已经转向一个在他们看来更有吸引力的组织，”华盛顿的中东媒体研究所(Middle East Media Research Institute)的执行总监史蒂芬·斯塔林斯基(Steven Stalinsky)说。该机构在监控阿拉伯语的新闻媒体和网站。
The Islamic State’s attraction, even in the West, was proved when Amedy Coulibaly, one of the gunmen in the Paris terrorist attacks last month, declared allegiance to the group.
上个月巴黎恐怖袭击事件中的武装分子之一艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)宣布效忠伊斯兰国，成为该组织的吸引力的一次证明，这其中甚至包括在西方的吸引力。
In Afghanistan last week, an American drone strike killed a former Taliban commander, Mullah Abdul Rauf Khadim, who had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State and had recently begun recruiting fighters. But that pledge seemed to indicate less a major expansion of the Islamic State than a deepening of internal divisions in the Taliban.
上周在阿富汗，一架美国无人机击毙了前塔利班指挥官毛拉·阿卜杜勒·劳夫·哈迪姆(Mullah Abdul Rauf Khadim)，后者已经承诺效忠伊斯兰国，最近刚刚开始招募武装分子。但这一效忠承诺似乎不太能够说明伊斯兰国的大幅扩张，更多是反映了塔利班内部分歧的不断深化。
There is no indication that the Islamic State controls territory in Afghanistan, but it has signaled its interest in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and has reportedly sent envoys there to recruit.
没有迹象显示伊斯兰国已经控制了阿富汗的领土，但它已经表示出了对该国和巴基斯坦的兴趣，据称还向这两个国家派去了代表，以招募新人。
Similarly, until recently, leaders of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, in Yemen, used nonconfrontational language to mask simmering disagreements with the Islamic State and its head, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. But tensions peaked in November, when a faction of Qaeda fighters there swore loyalty to Mr. Baghdadi.
就在不久前，基地组织在阿拉伯半岛、在也门的领导人，用轻描淡写的语言掩盖了与伊斯兰国及其头目阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)之间不断加剧的分歧。但这种冲突在11月达到了顶峰：基地组织在那里的一个派别宣布效忠巴格达迪。
Any authorization to use American military force against the Islamic State could arguably also cover interventions in Egypt and Libya, where active militant organizations have pledged allegiance to the group and have received its public acknowledgment as “provinces” of the putative caliphate.
如果授权美国军方使用武力打击伊斯兰国，可能会涉及对埃及和利比亚的干预，在这两个国家，一些活跃的激进组织已经承诺效忠该组织，并接受了其公开授予的哈里发国下属“省”身份。
Although there is little or no public evidence that the Islamic State’s leaders in Syria and Iraq have practical control over its North African provinces, its influence is already apparent in their operations and is destabilizing the countries around them. A publication released by the central group last week included a photograph of fighters in Libya with its affiliate there parading 20 Egyptian Christian captives in the Islamic State’s trademark orange jumpsuits, indicating at least a degree of communication.
几乎没有公开证据证明伊斯兰国在叙利亚和伊拉克的领导人对其在北非的省拥有实际的控制，但该组织的影响力已经在他们的行动中体现出来，而且正在破坏周围国家的稳定。伊斯兰国总部上周发布的一份出版物中的照片显示，利比亚的武装分子与那里的分支机构正带着20名埃及基督徒囚犯游街示众。这些囚犯穿着伊斯兰国标志性的橙色连体服。这意味着伊斯兰国和那里的分支机构至少存在一定程度上的交流。
In Egypt, the Sinai-based extremist group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis sent emissaries to the Islamic State in Syria last year to seek financial support, weapons and tactical advice, as well as the publicity and recruiting advantages that might come with the Islamic State name, according to Western officials briefed on classified intelligence reports.
据了解机密情报报告的西方官员透露，在埃及，以西奈为据点的极端组织艾玛格迪斯(Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis)去年曾向叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国派出密使，寻求经济支持、武器和战术建议，以及伊斯兰国的名气可能会带来的宣传和人员招募优势。
Ansar Beit al-Maqdis began adopting the Islamic State’s signature medieval punishment, beheadings, even before a formal merger. After becoming the Sinai Province of the Islamic State in November, the group’s online videos and statements claiming responsibility for attacks began to take on more of the sophistication and gore associated with its new parent group.
在正式合并之前，艾玛格迪斯就已经开始引入伊斯兰国标志性的原始刑罚——斩首。去年11月成为伊斯兰国西奈省后，该组织在通过网络视频和声明宣称对袭击事件负责时，开始有了跟它的新上级相似的精心制作和血腥风格。
In neighboring Libya, at least three distinct groups have declared their affiliation with the Islamic State, one in each of the country’s component regions: Barqa in the east, Fezzan in the desert south, and Tripolitania in the west, around the capital. With fighting among other regional and ideological militias having already plunged the country into chaos, the Islamic State affiliates pose a new obstacle to Western attempts to negotiate a truce or a unity government.
在毗邻的利比亚，至少有三个地区性组织宣布它们隶属于伊斯兰国。该国的三大地区中各有一个，分别位于东部的拜尔盖、南部沙漠的费赞和西部首都所在的的黎波里塔尼亚。出自其他地区和意识形态的民兵组织之间的冲突，已经令该国陷入混乱，而这些伊斯兰国的分支，更是给试图达成停火协议或组建联合政府的西方出了一道新难题。