BAGHDAD — At checkpoints across Baghdad, soldiers have defied a recent order from the prime minister to remove Shiite religious flags and replace them with Iraqi ones. At schools in the northern city of Kirkuk, students have raised Kurdish flags. And in the southern port city of Basra angry citizens have designed their own flag, anchored by the image of a single drop of oil.
巴格达——在巴格达各处的检查站，士兵们对总理近日下达的一项命令置若罔闻，没有撤下什叶派宗教旗帜代之以伊拉克国旗。在北部城市基尔库克的学校里，学生们升起库尔德旗帜。在南部港口城市巴士拉，愤怒的市民们设计了自己的旗帜，旗帜的中心元素是一滴油。
Then, of course, there are the black flags of the Islamic State, the extremist group in control of about a third of the country.
当然还有伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的黑旗，这个极端组织目前控制了伊拉克大约三分之一的土地。
Perhaps not since modern Iraq was created nearly a century ago by the fusion of three Ottoman provinces — Basra, Baghdad and Mosul — have more people challenged the idea of Iraq as a unified state.
自将近一个世纪前奥斯曼帝国的三个省——巴士拉、巴格达和摩苏尔——合并成为现代伊拉克以来，伊拉克作为统一国家的理念，也许从未像今天这样备受挑战。
Even as the new government is scrambling to defeat the militants of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, it faces an underlying challenge that may be tougher: promoting a new sense of national identity that, even if it cannot transcend the differences between Sunni and Shiite, Arab and Kurd, at least basically holds them together as countrymen.
新政府在手忙脚乱地打击又称ISIS或ISIL的伊斯兰国，但它面临的潜在挑战甚至还要更严峻：它要树立一种全新的国家身份认同感，即便无法超越逊尼派和什叶派、阿拉伯和库尔德的差异，至少要让他们作为一国之民能够共处。
Some officials have called for reinstating mandatory military service, in the belief it would bring communities together. Others have suggested promoting mixed marriages between Sunnis and Shiites by offering cash incentives. Still others say that promoting Iraq’s pre-Islamic past, as the cradle of civilization, could offer something from which Iraqis could build a degree of national unity.
一些官员呼吁恢复强制兵役，认为这样可以让各个社群团聚拢在一起。还有人建议以现金奖励的形式，鼓励逊尼派和什叶派通婚。不过也有人认为应该大力宣传前伊斯兰时代的伊拉克，强调其作为人类文明摇篮的过去，这样也许能让伊拉克人建立起某种程度的民族团结。
State television is in propaganda overdrive, with dramas portraying battlefield victories punctuated by the raising of the Iraqi flag — a celluloid counterpoint to the true story on the ground, where the flags of various militias indicate the erosion of the state’s reach.
国家电视台也在加班加点地宣传造势，描写战场胜利的故事片中时不时升起伊拉克国旗——现实中的战场正相反，各武装组织的旗帜表明国家政权的影响范围在被蚕食。
“The identity issue — getting an identity that all Iraqis can agree on so the state stays together — is serious,” said Phebe Marr, a prominent historian of modern Iraq.
“身份问题——建立一个全体伊拉克人都能认同的身份，从而保持国家统一——是个大问题，”知名的现代伊拉克历史学家菲比·马尔(Phebe Marr)说。
She added, “This is a struggle for a new vision of Iraq.”
她还说，“这是一场重新构想伊拉克的斗争。”
By every measure, it is a struggle in collision with the realities of life here, as communities become more isolated from one another.
随着社区间越来越彼此隔绝，这场斗争很大程度上和这里的现实生活是相冲突的。
Ehab al-Maliki, a famous Iraqi poet, has placed his talents in the service of the national project, appearing on state television, sometimes in a military uniform and holding a gun, to recite patriotic poems.
伊拉克著名诗人伊哈布·阿勒马利基(Ehab al-Maliki)将自己的才能用在了这个国家计划中，他会出现在国家电视台上，朗诵爱国的诗歌，有时还会身着军装，手拿一把枪。
His goal, he said, is to use his poems, “to promote national unity and the convergence of views, and to call for peaceful coexistence and nonviolence between communities.”
他说他的目标是利用自己的诗“促进国家的团结以及共识的达成，呼吁和平共处，各群体间不再发生暴力。”
For this, he has received numerous death threats.
他因此接到了许多死亡威胁。
One, in a text message, read: “You are a Shiite dog, a bastard, and we swear to God we will cut your belly out and give it to the dogs. You don’t deserve life and we will hunt you down.”
其中一次是一条手机短信，说：“你是只什叶派的狗，杂种，向神灵起誓，我们会把你的肚肠掏出来喂狗。你不配活着，我们会干掉你。”
In a recent decree, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi ordered the armed forces not to fly Shiite religious and militia flags. The banners have long aggrieved Iraq’s Sunni minority, who used to rule Iraq before the American invasion. Mr. Abadi was praised for this step by the United Nations’ Iraq representative in a speech in New York as a first step of “a broader initiative to restore confidence among Iraq’s communities.”
总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)近日发布的一项命令要求武装部队不能悬挂什叶派宗教旗帜和民兵旗帜。多年来，这些旗帜一直让逊尼派人士愤恨不已，作为少数族裔的逊尼派在美国入侵前是伊拉克的统治者。在纽约的一个讲话中，联合国驻伊拉克特使称赞阿巴迪此举为“一场在伊拉克社区中间重塑信心的全面行动”迈出了第一步。
The problem, though, is that the Shiite flags aren’t coming down, and aren’t likely to.
然而问题在于，什叶派旗帜没有降下来，也不太可能降下来。
At the V.I.P. checkpoint to the Green Zone, the government enclave in Baghdad, a soldier explained recently that when the flag order was handed down, people chose their faith over their commander in chief. There were no Iraqi flags at the checkpoint, only the black-and-green flags of Imam Hussein, the revered Shiite martyr.
近日在巴格拉的政府特区“绿区”(Green Zone)的一个重要检查站，一名士兵说有关旗帜的命令下达时，人们选择将他们的信仰放在首位，三军统帅的命令是其次。检查站没有伊拉克旗帜，只有纪念受敬仰的什叶派殉道者伊玛目侯赛因的黑绿色旗帜。
“The secondary identities — cultural, religious, our ethnicity — have prevailed,” said Mowaffak al-Rubaie, Iraq’s former national security adviser. “We all went to our little corners. Over the last decade, we have been looking for a new identity.”
“第二身份——文化、宗教和我们的族裔——占了上风，”伊拉克前国家安全顾问莫瓦夫法克·阿勒鲁比(Mowaffak al-Rubaie)说。“我们都回到了自己的小角落。在过去10年中，我们一直在寻找一种新的身份。”
A struggle for a national identity has persisted since the country’s modern founding after World War I, and has challenged all of Iraq’s authorities, from monarchs to dictators to occupiers.
国家身份认同的斗争，从第一次世界大战后现代伊拉克建国起就一直存在，从君主到独裁者到占领者，该国所有的统治者都要面临这个挑战。
Ms. Marr first visited Iraq in 1957 to conduct research for her graduate thesis. She has visited and studied the country ever since, and in 1982 published the first edition of her highly regarded book, “The Modern History of Iraq,” which chronicles the country’s tumultuous past century, including a half-dozen coups, the monarchy’s ouster and many wars. None of those events, she said, threatened the integrity of the state as thoroughly as the current crisis does.
马尔在1957年第一次来到伊拉克进行她的研究生论文研究。此后她一直在探访和研究这个国家，并于1982年出版了备受推崇的著作《伊拉克近代史》(The Modern History of Iraq)首版，该书记载了伊拉克在过去一个世纪里的动荡，包括六次政变，君主的罢黜，以及多场战争。她说这些事件对国家统一的威胁，都不及当前这场危机来得严重。
“It never occurred to me when I wrote this that it would be a question if Iraq stays together,” said Ms. Marr, who is working on a new edition.
“当初写书的时候，我根本没有想过伊拉克的统一会是一个问题，”马尔说，目前她正在准备该书的一个新版。
Few expect the country to formally break apart soon. But many are suddenly talking about the possibility — long a subject of Western research institutes but more and more a topic of discussion in the cafes and living rooms of ordinary Iraqis, and in the salons and offices of the powerful.
没有几个人相信这个国家很快会正式解体。但关于这种解体的可能性的讨论突然多了起来——这在西方的研究机构中早已是个课题，但如今越来越多地出现在伊拉克百姓的咖啡馆和起居室，出现在权势人物的沙龙和办公室。