HOUSTON — The breakthrough in nuclear talks with Iran on Thursday has the potential to cause a seismic shift in global energy markets over the long term, but energy experts said any appreciable impact on an already glutted global oil market was highly doubtful for at least six months and probably more than a year.
休斯敦——伊朗核谈本周四取得了突破，从长期而言，这可能会给全球能源市场带来巨变，但是能源专家说，全球石油市场已经供过于求，它遭受任何明显影响的可能性非常小，至少半年之内，或者一年多的时间里会是这样。
Since the European Union placed sanctions on Iranian oil in 2012, Iranian exports of crude have fallen by more than a million barrels a day — more than 1 percent of global supplies. At a time when there is a daily excess of nearly 2 million barrels of supply on the world market, another million barrels a day would put further pressure on world crude prices — which have fallen about 50 percent since June.
自从2012年欧盟对伊朗石油实施制裁以来，伊朗原油出口每天减少了逾100万桶——相当于全球供应量的逾1% 。而目前全球市场供应每天过剩近200万桶，如果供应量再增加100万桶，将使全球原油价格进一步承受下行压力。油价自去年6月以来已下跌了约50%。
While the agreement reached in Switzerland was tentative, the news led traders to sell oil futures and the price of the global Brent benchmark declined by nearly 4 percent, falling below $55 a barrel. Iran has as much as 20 million barrels of crude in storage — more than what the United States consumes in a day — that it could potentially release on the market.
虽然双方在瑞士仅达成了初步协议，但这一消息导致投资者抛售原油期货，布油全球基准价格下降了近4%，跌破每桶55美元。伊朗最多达2000万桶原油的库存——超过了美国的每日消耗量——有可能被投放到市场上。
Lifting of oil sanctions has been one of Iran's main objectives because its economy is highly dependent on oil sales and the sanctions have caused cancellations and delays in several oil exploration and production projects.
解除石油制裁一直是伊朗的主要目标之一，因为其经济高度依赖石油销售，制裁已经造成该国取消和推迟了几个石油勘探和生产计划。
“The framework agreement lays out a path to significantly increase Iranian oil exports over time,” said Michael Levi, an energy expert at the Council on Foreign Relations. But he added, “You want to know how many barrels will come out of Iran next week? Zero.”
“这个框架协议铺设了一条道路，让伊朗石油的出口量随着时间的推移大幅增加，” 对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations) 能源专家迈克尔·莱维(Michael Levi)说。但他也表示，“你想知道下周会有多少桶石油来自伊朗吗？零。”
Iran is still among the premier oil producers in the world, and has the fourth-largest proven reserves after Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Canada. Its largest buyers are China, India, Japan, South Korea and Turkey. Expanded exports to those countries would put price pressure on competing members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, particularly its archrival Saudi Arabia. With higher production, Iran could challenge the leadership of Saudi Arabia in OPEC in alliance with Iraq and Venezuela.
伊朗仍是世界上最大的石油生产国家之一，其探明储量排在沙特阿拉伯、委内瑞拉和加拿大之后，位居全球第四。其最大的买家是中国、印度、日本、韩国和土耳其。扩大对这些国家的出口会让石油输出国组织（Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries，简称 OPEC）承受降价压力，特别是其劲敌沙特阿拉伯。伊朗提高产量后，可以与伊拉克和委内瑞拉联手挑战沙特阿拉伯在OPEC中的领导地位。
Contradictory factors are likely to continue to move oil in a jagged direction in the coming weeks. On the one hand, oil supplies continue to build in the United States and globally. On the other, conflicts in Iraq and Libya threaten to trim their crude exports.
一些作用力相反的因素可能导致油价在未来几周内继续保持拉锯走势。一方面，美国和全球范围内的石油供应在继续增加。另一方面，伊拉克和利比亚的冲突可能会削减这两个国家的原油出口量。