WASHINGTON — As he described the factors that went into his decision to keep American troops in Afghanistan, the one word President Obama did not mention on Thursday was Iraq.
华盛顿——周四列举自己决定让美国军队留在阿富汗的因素时，有一个字眼奥巴马总统没有提及，那就是“伊拉克”。
Four years ago, he stuck to his plan to pull out of Iraq, only to watch the country collapse back into sectarian strife and a renewed war with Islamic extremists. Facing a similar situation in Afghanistan, Mr. Obama has opted not to follow a similar course.
四年前，他遵照自己的计划从伊拉克撤军，却发现该国又一次陷入了宗派冲突之中，与伊斯兰主义极端分子的战火重燃。在阿富汗面对类似局面的情况下，奥巴马选择改弦更张。
Whether keeping a residual American force in Iraq would have made a difference is a point of contention, but the president decided not to take a chance this time. In reversing his plan to pull out of Afghanistan by the end of next year, Mr. Obama abandoned his desired legacy of ending the two wars he inherited in the hopes of avoiding a repeat of the meltdown in Iraq.
如若美军留驻伊拉克，能否扭转局势？这是一个有争议的话题，不过奥巴马决定这一次不去撞大运。他推翻了自己做出的在明年年底前从阿富汗全面撤军的计划。这意味着，抱着避免伊拉克的崩溃景象重现的希望，奥巴马抛弃了自己追求的政治遗产：亲手终结他继承的两场战争。
While not openly drawing any lessons from the Iraq withdrawal, Mr. Obama tried to draw an implicit distinction by emphasizing that the new Afghan government of President Ashraf Ghani, unlike the Baghdad government in 2011, still supports an American military presence and has taken the legal steps to make it possible.
奥巴马并未公开谈论在伊拉克撤军一事上得出的教训，但却通过强调阿富汗总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)领导的新政府与2011年的巴格达政府不同之处，来含蓄地表明其中的区别。前者依然支持美国的军事存在，并在走法律程序来实现这一点。
“In the Afghan government, we have a serious partner who wants our help,” Mr. Obama said in his televised statement. “And the majority of the Afghan people share our goals. We have a bilateral security agreement to guide our cooperation.”
“在阿富汗政府方面，我们有希望我们伸出援手的严肃伙伴，”奥巴马发表电视声明时表示。“大多数阿富汗民众与我们目标一致。我们也拥有一份双边安全协议来指导双方的合作。”
Lisa Monaco, his homeland security and counterterrorism adviser, later addressed the comparison during a conference call with reporters. “The difference with 2011 is clear,” she said. “The Afghan government has asked us to stay, has invited us in and wants to work with us,” she said.
奥巴马总统的国家安全与反恐事务顾问莉萨·莫纳科(Lisa Monaco)随后在与记者进行的电话会议上谈论了其间的不同。“与2011年区别明显，”她说。“阿富汗政府一直请求我们留下来，一直邀请我们去，希望与我们合作。”
On Iraq, the Obama administration and the government of Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, then the prime minister, had negotiated over the possibility of keeping thousands of American troops there after 2011 but were bogged down in a dispute over a legal agreement limiting liability for American forces. Ultimately both sides gave up and decided to stick to the original schedule for a 2011 withdrawal enshrined in an agreement reached between President George W. Bush and Mr. Maliki at the end of 2008.
在伊拉克问题上，奥巴马政府曾与当时的伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)就2011年后留下数千美军的可能性进行过谈判，但卡在了有关限制美军承担的法律责任的协议上。最终，双方放弃，决定遵循原有的2011年撤军的时间表。这一时间表是由前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和马利基在2008年底达成的协议确定的。
Mr. Obama then went on the campaign trail seeking re-election boasting about pulling out all troops from Iraq. But without an American presence, Mr. Maliki turned increasingly sectarian, repressing Sunnis and aligning with Iran, which seemed to encourage the rise of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Mr. Obama has since sent back about 3,000 American troops to help advise and assist a new Iraqi government’s fight with the Islamic State.
后来，奥巴马在寻求连任的竞选活动中大肆宣扬将从伊拉克撤出所有军队。然而，美国人走了之后，马利基的宗派倾向越来越严重，打压了逊尼派，与伊朗保持一致。这些做法似乎助长了伊斯兰国（Islamic State，简称ISIS或ISIL）的崛起。自那之后，奥巴马又派出三千美军重返伊拉克，为巴格达的新政府抗击伊斯兰国提供咨询意见和协助。
Similarly, despite years of fighting in Afghanistan and a temporary surge of American troops at the start of Mr. Obama’s presidency, the Taliban has made a comeback, as underscored by the brief takeover of the city of Kunduz, and the Islamic State has begun making inroads as well.
同样地，尽管美国部队多年在阿富汗战斗，并在奥巴马上任之初一度临时增兵，但塔利班短暂占领昆都士一事突显出，该组织已经卷土重来。而且伊斯兰国也开始把触角伸向阿富汗。
Mr. Obama has made it clear he is loath to commit American military forces to the Middle East, especially ground troops, deeming it a largely losing proposition that costs American lives without fixing the problems being addressed. And he repeated on Thursday that he opposes “endless war.”
奥巴马明确表示，他不愿将美国部队，尤其是地面部队，派往中东，认为这对美国基本上是赔本生意，徒然牺牲美国人的生命，却对要解决的问题于事无补。周四，他再次表示反对“无休止的战争”。
But Afghanistan is still seen as more directly tied to American interests than Iraq or Syria, since it was the base from which Al Qaeda planned its attack on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001. And Mr. Obama does not want to pass along to his successor a fraying situation in Afghanistan on top of the current turmoil in Syria and Iraq.
但相比于伊拉克或叙利亚，阿富汗依然被看做与美国利益更直接相关，因为它是基地组织策划2001年的9·11恐怖袭击的大本营。奥巴马不想在现存的叙利亚和伊拉克残局之外，再把阿富汗这样一个难收拾的烂摊子继续留给下一任美国总统。
The continued presence of 9,800 American troops next year and then 5,500 after that — down from more than 100,000 at its peak — may make only a modest difference militarily. But Mr. Obama is gambling that it matters politically by showing that the United States is not giving up on the Kabul government and leaving a vacuum for other forces to fill.
明年，美军将继续保持9800人的阿富汗驻军，后年将减少到5500人，相比于高峰期的10万多美国驻军，这一部署从军事上讲可能无法对那里的局势产生多少影响。但奥巴马所押注的是，它可以在政治上显示出，美国不打算放弃喀布尔政府，不会留下空档让其他力量乘虚而入。