LAUSANNE, Switzerland — Iran and the world powers said here Thursday that they had reached a surprisingly specific and comprehensive general understanding about the next steps in limiting Tehran's nuclear program, though Western officials said many details needed to be resolved before a final agreement in June.
瑞士洛桑——周四，伊朗和几个世界大国在这里表示，已就限制德黑兰核计划的下一步举措达成了广泛谅解，且其内容详细和全面得令人惊讶。不过西方官员表示，在6月达成最终协议之前，还有很多细节问题需要解决。
After two years of negotiations, capped by eight tumultuous days and nights of talks that appeared on the brink of breakdown several times, Secretary of State John Kerry and his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, announced the plan that, if carried out, would keep Iran's nuclear facilities open, under strict production limits, and holds the potential of reordering America's relationship with a country that has been an avowed adversary for 35 years.
经过两年的谈判后，在最后八个激烈争执的日子里，谈判多次处在崩溃的边缘，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和他的伊朗方面对等官员穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)最终宣布了一个新计划。这个计划实施后，伊朗的核设施将在严格的生产限制下公开运作。同时，这一计划也给公然敌对了长达35年的美伊两国重整关系的可能性。
Kerry and Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz, a nuclear scientist who played a crucial role in the last stages of the negotiations, said the pact satisfied their primary goal of ensuring that Iran, if it decided to, could not race for a nuclear weapon in less than a year, although those constraints against “breakout” would be in effect only for the first decade of the accord.
克里和能源部长欧内斯特·J·莫尼斯(Ernest J. Moniz)说，这个协议满足了他们的主要目标，即确保伊朗不能在一年内造出核武器，尽管这些针对“核爆发”的限制只会在协议下的第一个十年有效。莫尼斯是核科学家，在谈判的最后关头起到了关键作用。
President Barack Obama, for whom remaking the American relationship with Iran has been a central objective since his 2008 campaign, stepped into the Rose Garden moments later to celebrate what he called “a historic understanding with Iran.” He warned Republicans in Congress that if they tried to impose new sanctions to undermine the effort, the United States would be blamed for a diplomatic failure.
自从2008年的大选以来，重塑美国和伊朗的关系就是奥巴马总统的一个核心目标。他在谈判结束片刻后走进白宫玫瑰园，庆祝他称之为“与伊朗历史性的谅解”。他告诫国会的共和党人，如果他们试图施加新的制裁，破坏目前的努力，美国就会被怪罪为一个外交失败者。
He insisted that the deal “cuts off every pathway” for Iran to develop a nuclear weapon and establishes the most intrusive inspection system in history.
他坚称，协议会“切断”伊朗发展核武器的“所有途径”，并且会建立有史以来最深入的核查体系。
“If Iran cheats,” he said, “the world will know it.”
“如果伊朗作弊，”他说，“全世界都会知道。”
Under the accord, Iran agreed to cut the number of operating centrifuges it has by two-thirds, to 5,060, all of them first-generation, and to cut its current stockpile of low-enriched uranium from around 10,000 kilograms to 300 for 15 years. A U.S. description of the deal also referred to inspections “anywhere in the country” that could “investigate suspicious sites or allegations of a covert enrichment facility.”
根据这项协议，伊朗同意减少三分之二正在运行的离心机数量至5060台，这些离心机全部为第一代，同时将现有库存的低浓缩铀从1万公斤减少到300公斤并维持15年。一份美国对协议内容的描述同样包括，可以在“国内任何地点调查可疑的或疑似秘密铀浓缩设施的场所”。
But in a briefing, U.S. officials talked about setting up a mechanism to resolve disputes that has not been explained in any detail.
但在一场新闻发布会上，美国官员谈到要建立一个机制，来解决那些并未详细说明的分歧。
In a move not seen since before the Iranian revolution in 1979, and to the surprise of many in both countries, Iranian government broadcasters aired Obama's comments live. In parts of Tehran, people cheered and honked car horns as they began to contemplate a life without the sanctions on oil and financial transactions, though the issue of when the sanctions are to be removed looms as one of the potential obstacles to a final agreement on June 30.
伊朗政府的电视台直播了奥巴马的讲话，这种做法从1979年伊朗革命以来就从未有过，让两个国家的很多人感到惊讶。在德黑兰的一些地区，人们热烈欢呼，按响汽车喇叭，开始期待石油及金融交易摆脱制裁后的生活。不过制裁措施的撤消时间，成为了可能阻碍双方在6月30达成最终协议的因素之一。
If that hurdle and the problem of ridding Iran of its huge stockpile of nuclear fuel can be fully resolved in the next three months, the preliminary accord will still need to be sold to Iran's neighbors. The prospect of a deal has inflamed Israel and the Gulf states, alarmed by Iranian muscle-flexing in the Middle East, most recently in Iraq, Syria and Yemen.
即使这一障碍，以及销毁伊朗大量核燃料的问题，在接下来三个月能够完全解决，也还需要说服伊朗的邻国接受这份初步协议。可能达成协议的前景激怒了以色列和海湾国家，它们对伊朗在中东地区——最近在伊拉克、叙利亚和也门——展示武力的行为感到警觉。
Zarif, for his part, was careful to play down the notion that anything agreed to here would remake the relationship with America. Any hint of a broader rapprochement is an enormously sensitive issue among hard-liners in the Iranian military and clerical leaders who have made opposition to the United States the centerpiece of their political narratives.
有观点认为，在这里达成的共识意味着与美国修复关系，但扎里夫却谨慎地努力淡化这种看法。对于伊朗军方及神职领导层中的强硬派来说，广泛恢复关系的任何迹象都是非常敏感的，因为他们已经让反美立场成为了政治话语的核心。
“Iran-U.S. relations have nothing to do with this,” Zarif said emphatically at a university here where the agreement was announced. “This was an attempt to resolve the nuclear issue.”
“伊朗-美国关系与该协议无关，”扎里夫在这里的一所大学强调说。“这是为了解决核问题。”协议的达成就是在这所大学宣布的。
While saying he hoped the two countries would find a way to melt away their distrust as the agreement was carried out, he hastened to add, “We have serious differences with the United States.”
虽然声称自己希望随着协议的实施，两国能够找到消除不信任的途径，但是扎里夫立即补充道，“我们与美国有着严重的分歧。”
Now, attention will shift to Obama and Hassan Rouhani, the Iranian president who was elected on a platform of ending sanctions. They share a common task: Selling the agreement at home to constituencies deeply suspicious of both the deal and the prospect of signing any accord with an avowed enemy. The Obama administration has promised a lobbying campaign by the president unlike any seen since he pushed through health care legislation.
如今，注意力将会转移到奥巴马及伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)身上，鲁哈尼凭借承诺终结制裁的政纲当选了总统。他们面临着一个共同的任务：在国内让质疑这份协议，也质疑与死敌签署协议的做法的人群，接受这份协议。奥巴马政府承诺，总统会开展一场游说行动，其力度将超过他推动医改法案获得通过以来，人们所看到的其他所有游说活动。
Zarif and other Iranian officials may have an even harder political argument to win. They will have to overcome objections in the military and scientific establishments, especially because the accord will force them to cut the number of centrifuges enriching uranium by half, put thousands of others in storage and convert two other facilities into research sites that would have virtually no fissile material —the makings of an atom bomb. Iran has insisted that its nuclear program is for civilian uses only.
扎里夫和其他伊朗官员或许更难赢得这场政治争论。他们需要压倒军队及科研机构中的反对意见，尤其是因为该协议会迫使他们将浓缩铀离心机数量减少一半，封存其他数千台离心机，并将另外两处设施改建成几乎没有可裂变物质的研究场所。可裂变物质是制造原子弹的必要材料。伊朗坚称其核计划仅用于民用目的。
Another problem for Zarif is that the deal he has agreed to is far more restrictive than one he outlined last July in an interview with The New York Times. At that time he envisioned essentially keeping Iran's stockpiles and its sprawling nuclear facilities at the levels they are running under a temporary agreement struck 18 months ago.
扎里夫面临的另一个问题是，他同意的这项协议，远比他去年7月接受《纽约时报》采访时介绍的协议限制性更强。当时，他实际上是设想将伊朗的核燃料库存，以及面积甚广的核设施，保持在目前的水平上。这一水平是18个月前达成的一项临时协议规定的。
What he agreed to in Lausanne, at least according to those fact sheets, would dramatically cut Iran's capability for 10 years, and then allow it to gradually build up for the next five.
至少从目前公布的概况来开，他在洛桑同意的协议，会在十年时间里极大地削弱伊朗的核能力，再在之后的五年时间里，允许伊朗逐步积累能力。
After that, Iran would be free to produce as much uranium as it wishes — even building the 190,000 centrifuges that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei talked about last summer. That is bound to be a major concern for Congress, the Israelis and the Arab states, because it amounts to a bet that after 15 years, Iran will be a far more cooperative international player, perhaps under different management.
在那之后，伊朗便可以自由地生产铀，想生产多少都行，哪怕是像阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)去年夏天谈到的那样，建19万台离心机。这势必会成为美国国会、以色列和阿拉伯国家担心的一个主要问题，因为这相当于打赌说15年后，伊朗会成为一个合作精神更强的国际事务参与者，甚至可能会处在另一种治理模式下。
The 5,060 centrifuges is a far higher figure than the administration originally envisioned, when it argued that Iran could possess only a few hundred. But in the final negotiations, Moniz and his Iranian counterpart, Ali Akbar Salehi, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-educated head of Iran's atomic energy agency, agreed that Iran would drastically cut its stockpile of nuclear fuel — from about 8 tons to a little more than 600 pounds. The giant underground enrichment site at Fordo — which Israeli and some U.S. officials fear is impervious to bombing — would be partly converted to advanced nuclear research and the production of medical isotopes. About two thirds of its centrifuges would be removed. Eventually foreign scientists would be present. It would have no fissile material that could be used to make a bomb.
保留5060台离心机的数字，远高于奥巴马政府最初的设想。之前，奥巴马政府称伊朗只能拥有几百台离心机。但在最终的谈判中，莫尼斯和伊朗的对等官员、曾在麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)接受教育的伊朗原子能机构负责人阿里·阿克巴尔·萨利希(Ali Akbar Salehi)同意，伊朗将大幅削减核燃料库存，从大约8吨减至略高于600磅（约270公斤）。福尔多那处巨大的地下铀浓缩设施，将部分被改建，用于先进的核研究及医用同位素的生产。以色列和部分美国官员担心，那处那处设施能够抵御轰炸。大约三分之二的离心机将被拆除。最后那里将不会有可以被用来制造核弹的裂变材料，而且将进驻外国科学家。