Do the Iran deal. Defeat the barbaric marauders of Islamic State. In the fragmenting mayhem of the Middle East, these must be the American and Western priorities.
达成伊朗协议。击败烧杀抢掠的伊斯兰国。在支离破碎的中东乱局中，这些是美国和西方的当务之急。
They are objectives rooted in the strict Western interest. An Iranian nuclear accord lasting at least a decade that ring-fences a fiercely monitored and strictly limited enrichment program compatible only with civilian use is not an ideal outcome, but it is the best conceivable outcome of protracted talks that have already reversed the nuclear momentum in Iran and established a bridgehead between Washington and Tehran.
它们是本着绝对的西方利益制定出来的目标。和伊朗签订一个至少持续10年的核条约，将把一个受到严密监视和严格控制的铀浓缩项目限定在民用范围，这并非理想的结果，但经过漫长的谈判后，这是最切实际的结果，而这些谈判已经扭转了伊朗核项目的势头，在华盛顿和德黑兰之间建起了一座桥头堡。
Any such agreement — and the deadline is imminent — must leave Iran a minimum of a year from any ‘‘break-out’’ to a bomb. The alternatives are far worse. Centrifuges and enrichment levels would resume their upward curve. War drums would beat again despite the fact that calls to attack Iran are an irresponsible invitation to disaster.
不管怎样，这份谈判最后期限将至的协议都要让伊朗和核弹“突破”保持至少一年的距离。其他的方案要糟糕得多。离心机和浓缩水平可能会保持上升的曲线。战鼓也许会再度擂响，尽管进攻伊朗的呼号无疑是在不负责任地挑起灾难。
American or Israeli bombs on Persia (or both) would have all sorts of ghastly consequences, but the fundamental argument against such folly is that they would cause no more than a hiccup in Iran’s nuclear program before spurring it to renewed and unmonitored intensity. This would be war without purpose, or war on false pretenses. We’ve seen enough of that.
美国或以色列（或两者一起）的炸弹落在波斯大地上，将引发多方面的可怕后果，然而要批驳这个愚蠢念头，最根本是需要指出，攻击对伊朗的核项目不会构成什么真正的影响，只会给它注入新活力，在不受监管的情况下愈演愈烈。那将是一场漫无目的的战争，或者说一场基于谎言的战争。这种战争我们见得够多了。
Iran is a hopeful and youthful society. Nurture the hope. Don’t imprison it. A deal lasting 10 years would condemn Iran and America to a working relationship over that period. I use the word ‘‘condemn’’ advisedly. It would not be pretty. In fact it would be ugly. There would be plenty of disagreements.
伊朗是一个充满希望的、年轻的社会。要呵护这希望。别去禁锢它。一个持续10年的协议，会迫使伊朗和美国在这段时间里建立起正常的关系。我有意用了“迫使”这个词。它不会是个赏心悦目的过程。事实上会很难看，会有很多的分歧。
But jaw-jaw is better than war-war. Much can be achieved with nations that have fundamental ideological differences with the United States; look at the history of Chinese-American relations since they resumed in the 1970’s. During the next decade the Islamic Republic is likely to go through a leadership change. Its society is aspirational and Westward-looking. ‘‘Death to America’’ has become a tired refrain. What these elements will produce in terms of change is unpredictable, but the chance of positive developments is enhanced by contact and diminished by punitive estrangement of Tehran.
但怒目圆睁总比刀兵相见强。美国与那些在意识形态上存在根本分歧的国家有很多努力的空间；看看上世纪70年代恢复往来的中美关系就知道。接下来的十年里，这个伊斯兰共和国可能会经历一场领导权的交替。它的社会有抱负，心向西方。“美国灭亡”的口号已经令人厌倦。这些因素会带来怎样的改变是不可预知的，但双方的接触可以增加出现积极进展的几率，而惩罚性地疏远德黑兰，会起到相反的效果。
Would it be preferable that Iran not have the nuclear capacity it has acquired? Sure. Can there be absolute guarantees a deal would be honored? No. But diplomacy deals with the real world. The toughest, most important diplomacy is conducted with enemies. Opponents of an accord have offered no serious alternatives.
不让伊朗具备它业已获取到的核能力是不是更好呢？当然。协议能否确保得到彻底执行？不能。但外交要面对现实。最艰难、最重要的外交行动，是和敌人共同进行的。反对条约的人拿不出什么正经的替代方案。
Only elementary knowledge of Iran is needed to know that sanctions will never bring this proud nation to its knees. It would rather starve than cave. What better assures Israel’s security, a decade of strict limitation and inspection of Iran’s nuclear program that prevents it making a bomb, or a war that delays the program a couple of years, locks in the most radical factions in Tehran, and intensifies Middle Eastern violence? It’s a no-brainer.
只要对伊朗有最基本的了解，就会知道制裁永远不会让这个骄傲的国家妥协。它宁可饿死也不屈服。哪种选择更能确保以色列的安全：是对伊朗核计划进行长达10年的严格限制和核查，从而防止它制造核弹，还是打一场战争，让伊朗的核计划推迟几年，卷入德黑兰最极端的教派冲突，令中东的暴力冲突进一步加剧？答案很明显。
I like the current inconsistencies in President Obama’s Middle East policy. Some ask how it can make sense to pursue an Iran deal while backing Arab states, principally Sunni Saudi Arabia, in a campaign against Iranian-backed Houthi forces in Yemen. To which the answer is first that interests drive foreign policy, not the pursuit of consistency (Stalin was once the most effective of American allies); and second that America is making it clear to Iran, even before any possible deal, that it will not abandon its allies, including Egypt and the Saudis, just because a nuclear agreement has been reached. This is an important message. The United States will oppose Iran where its interests and those of its allies demand that, deal or no deal.
我喜欢目前奥巴马总统中东政策的不统一。有人会问，既要与伊朗达成协议，又要支持阿拉伯国家——主要是逊尼派的沙特阿拉伯——打击伊朗支持的也门胡塞武装的行动，这行得通吗？答案是，首先，驱动外交政策的是利益，而不是对一致性的追求（斯大林曾经是美国最实在的盟友）；第二，美国在任何协议都未达成的情况下就已向伊朗表明，不会为了达成协议而放弃盟友，包括埃及和沙特阿拉伯。这是一条重要的信息。当美国及其盟友的利益要求美国与伊朗对立时，美国一定会这么做，无论是否达成了协议。
One area where American and Iranian interests broadly coincide is in defeating Islamic State, the latest expression of the metastasizing Salafi Islamist ideology of murderous hatred toward Western civilization that produced 9/11 and recent murderous rampages in Europe. Islamic State is also a Sunni revanchist movement in Iraq and Syria, directly opposed to Shia Iran. There is nothing uplifting about the overlap in American and Iranian interests, but that does not make it any the less important. Rolling back Islamic State requires at least tacit Iranian cooperation.
美国和伊朗存在利益重合的一个领域是打击伊斯兰国。该组织是沙拉菲伊斯兰主义意识形态这个肿瘤的最新一次转移，这种意识形态对西方欲杀之而后快，制造了9·11事件和近年欧洲的多起枪杀事件。伊斯兰国也是伊拉克和叙利亚的一个逊尼派复仇主义组织，与什叶派的伊朗是直接对立的。美国和伊朗的这个利益重合不值得庆幸，但却非常重要。打击伊斯兰国需要伊朗至少在暗中能合作。
America cannot stop the Sunni-Shia schism in the Middle East that its invasion of Iraq exacerbated. It cannot rebuild the Sykes-Picot order, or the borders that went with it. It cannot reverse its failure to prevent the worst in Syria (which will forever blot Obama’s record), nor its failure, outside Tunisia, and particularly in Egypt, to nurture the hope of the Arab spring for more representative societies freed from the paralyzing (and mutually reinforcing) confrontation of dictatorship and Islamism. It cannot prevent the violence inherent in all these developments. Nor should it hide its eyes from the fact that this violence will last a generation at least.
美国无法阻止逊尼派-什叶派在中东的分歧，它对伊拉克的入侵曾经加剧了这种分裂。美国无法重建《赛克斯-皮科协定》式的秩序，也无法重建它所规定的边界。美国无法逆转这些事实：它未能阻止叙利亚陷入最糟糕的境地（这将永远成为奥巴马执政记录上的污点），也未能在突尼斯之外，为更多从独裁统治与伊斯兰主义的破坏（和相辅相成）中解放出来的、更具代议性的社会带去阿拉伯之春的希望，尤其是埃及。美国没能阻止这些局势发展所固有的暴力。也不应该忽视这一事实：这些暴力活动将至少持续一代人的时间。