The man formerly hailed as a messiah was having a bad day.
这个曾被誉为救世主的人，刚刚度过了糟糕的一天。
The Iranians snubbed him. The Brazilians upbraided him. Ted Cruz fauxlibustered him. And you just know that, behind the scenes, the Russians were messing with him.
伊朗人冷落他、巴西人谴责他、特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)假装冗长演说拖延他。而且凭直觉你就知道，俄罗斯人在幕后给他捣鬼。
At the end of a long, hard day at the United Nations, he escaped into the sweaty and freighted embrace of the Clintons, who had to explain and defend the president’s own health care plan for him at their global initiative conference/Hillary 2016 pep rally. The choreography of diplomacy danced around the tantalizing possibility of a historic handshake that could end three decades of poison. (Even though the last climactic clasp, between Yitzhak Rabin and Yasir Arafat, disappointingly proved that sometimes a handshake is just a handshake.)
在联合国度过漫长而艰难的一天后，他逃到了克林顿家,受到他们一个接一个令人发汗的拥抱，这家人在他们的全球倡议大会（兼希拉里2016竞选动员会）上，不得不为总统自己的医改方案做讲解和辩护。外交的编排围绕着可能了结30年恩怨的一次历史性握手的可能性而上演。（尽管最近一次发生在伊扎克·拉宾[Yitzhak Rabin]和亚西尔·阿拉法特[Yasir Arafat]之间的激动人心的握手，令人失望地证明，有时，握手仅仅是握手而已。）
With the welcome exit of the provincial Iranian fruitbat, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, could the country W. declared part of the “axis of evil” reach out to the country smeared as the “Great Satan” by Ayatollah Khomeini? Obama administration officials at the U.N. on Tuesday explained to reporters that there would not be a bilateral between President Obama and President Hassan Rouhani of Iran, or any sort of “formal meeting.”
土里土气的伊朗疯子马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)令人欣慰地退场了，这个曾被小布什称为“邪恶轴心”之一的国家能否会伸出手，向被阿亚图拉霍梅尼(Ayatollah Khomeini)蔑称为“大恶魔”(Great Satan)的国家示好呢？奥巴马政府驻联合国的官员周二向记者解释说，奥巴马总统和伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)之间不会进行双边活动，或任何“正式会见”。
“We’re not prepared for heads of state to negotiate or presidents to negotiate on the nuclear issue,” an official said, speaking on background. An “encounter” would be permissible. Not a long one, but an “informal, brief encounter.”
“我们不准备安排国家首脑或总统就核问题进行谈判，”一个官员私下匿名表示。“碰面”是可以的。无需太久，就是一个“非正式的简短碰面。”
“So,” a reporter asked, “like a handshake?”
 “就是说，”一个记者问到，“比如握手？”
“Yes, that type of thing,” the official replied. “Exactly. On the margins here.”
“对，是那种，”官员答道。“没错。发生在大会间隙的那种。”
Except that, after the White House spent a week suggesting that there could be a press-the-flesh moment, Rouhani snubbed Obama. And not on the margins.
尽管白宫花了一周时间做暗示，可能会有肢体接触的时刻，但鲁哈尼没有理睬奥巴马。而且不只是在大会间隙。
Maybe the tweet-happy Iranian president was too busy retweeting Christiane Amanpour to have time to pretend to bump into the American president in a U.N. hallway. “Ultimately it became clear that that was too complicated for them at this time,” the Obama official said just before 3 p.m., trying to put a good face on the scuttled face-to-face, adding that “the Iranians, No. 1, have an internal dynamic that they have to manage” and they “were not ready to have an encounter at the presidential level.”
也许，热衷于发Twitter的伊朗总统忙于转发克里斯汀·阿曼普(Christiane Amanpour)的推特短讯，以至于没有时间在联合国总部走廊里偶遇美国总统。“最终情况变得明朗，接触对他们来说目前还太复杂，”奥巴马官员快到下午3点时这样表示，对没有发生的“面对面”，努力做出一副不在意的面孔，并补充说，“对伊朗人来说，首先要应付内部动态”，他们“还未准备好进行总统级碰面。”
Even a brief encounter wasn’t brief enough.
就连一个短暂碰面都还不够短暂。
“The assumption that a meeting per se could be decisive or help solve problems is absolutely wrong,” said the Iranian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham. “We think that we should wait until a proper time for such a meeting comes. Our assessment is that the proper time hasn’t yet come.”
“以为一次会面本身就能产生决定性的作用，或帮助解决某些问题，这个假设绝对是错误的，”伊朗外交部女发言人玛兹齐耶赫·阿夫哈姆(Marzieh Afkham)表示。“我们认为应该等待此类会面发生的恰当时机。据我们估计，时机尚未成熟。”
Poor President Obama, trying to figure out if the Russians and Iranians are offering trick or treat to America on W.M.D., as he lurches about with a foreign policy played out extemporaneously and ambivalently in “Obama’s brain and Ben Rhodes’s mouth,” as The New Republic’s Leon Wieseltier puts it. (An internal Israeli government document, The Washington Post reported, dismissed Rouhani’s charm offensive as “smile but enrich.”)
可怜的奥巴马总统，就在外交政策让他步履蹒跚的同时，他还要绞尽脑汁试图搞清俄罗斯和伊朗在大规模杀伤性武器问题上，是在耍滑头，还是会给美国甜头。这种外交政策毫无准备且犹豫不决地在“奥巴马的脑海里和本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)的嘴里”上演着，用《新共和》(The New Republic)杂志的莱昂·维塞尔蒂尔(Leon Wieseltier)的话来说。（据《华盛顿邮报》[The Washington Post]报道，一份以色列政府的内部文件把鲁哈尼的魅力攻势描述为“微笑，但继续进行核浓缩”。）
And poor Hillary Clinton, having to watch as the diplomatic breakthroughs, albeit haphazard and possibly illusory, happen on John Kerry’s watch, making her tenure look even more like that of a globe-trotting good-will ambassador. The president told the U.N. that future diplomatic efforts would focus on Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Hillary largely steered clear of that conflict, knowing the domestic risks for the restoration of Clinton Inc.
还有可怜的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，不得不眼睁睁地看着外交突破发生在约翰·克里(John Kerry)的任上，尽管这些突破是偶然的，而且可能会化为泡影，这只会让她的任期看起来更像是友善大使的世界周游。总统在联合国发言称，未来外交努力的重点，是伊朗对拥有核武器的企图，以及阿拉伯—以色列之间的冲突。而希拉里基本上避开了阿以冲突问题，她深知这个问题给克林顿集团的东山再起带来的国内风险。
The Obama snub is a replay of then-President Clinton’s dashed attempt at a brief encounter in 2000 at the opening of the General Assembly with the Iranian President Mohammad Khatami, who also tried to warm up relations with the West but got hampered by hard-liners at home. As The Times’s Mark Landler wrote, Clinton aides did everything they could to arrange a “coincidental” brief encounter — including asking that Clinton’s speech be just before Khatami’s and that Clinton be seated within chair-bumping range of Khatami at the secretary general’s lunch.
奥巴马碰的钉子，是2000年时任总统克林顿的尝试破灭的重演，在当时联合国大会(General Assembly)召开时，克林顿曾试图与伊朗时任总统穆罕默德·哈塔米(Mohammad Khatami)发生短暂碰面。哈塔米也曾努力缓和与西方的关系，却遭到伊朗国内强硬派的阻挠。正如《纽约时报》记者马克·兰德勒(Mark Landler)所写到的，克林顿的助手想尽一切办法去安排一个“巧”遇——包括要求把克林顿的讲话排在哈塔米之前，并在联合国秘书长主持的午餐会上，把克林顿的座位安排在哈塔米座位“椅子能够碰到”的范围内。
Prince Turki al-Faisal, the former Saudi Arabian ambassador to the U.S., told an audience at the Core Club in Midtown Sunday evening that President Obama raised expectations in the Arab world with his 2009 Cairo speech that were never met. But the president, stymied on Syria and dealing with an American public that never wants to hear the words “Sunni” or “Shiite” again, had a straight-up message for the Arab world.
沙特前驻美大使图尔基·费萨尔亲王(Prince Turki al-Faisal)周日晚在曼哈顿中城的核心俱乐部(the Core Club)对听众说，奥巴马总统2009年发表的开罗演讲，在阿拉伯世界中激发了从未得到实现的愿望。在叙利亚问题上被捆住手脚的总统，还要面对不想再听到任何有关“逊尼派”(Sunni)和“什叶派”(Shiite)字眼的美国公众，不过这位总统给阿拉伯世界发出了一条直言的信息。
“The United States is chastised for meddling in the region, accused of having a hand in all manner of conspiracy,” he said in his speech, “at the same time, the United States is blamed for failing to do enough to solve the region’s problems and for showing indifference toward suffering Muslim populations.”
他在演讲中说，“美国被谴责插手该地区的问题，被指控参与各种各样的阴谋。但同时，美国又被指责在解决地区问题上做得不够，对穆斯林人民的苦难无动于衷。”
He said that America’s ill-suited forays into occupying Muslim countries are over: “Iraq shows us that democracy cannot simply be imposed by force.”
他表示，美国将不再用占领穆斯林国家的这种注定失败的方式：“伊拉克向我们证明民主不能只靠强力推行。”
A handshake can’t be imposed on someone who is not quite ready to come to grips.
握手也不能强加于尚未完全准备好抓住时机的人。