BAGHDAD — A series of daring but little noticed breakouts from Iraqi prisons has freed hundreds of hardened militants who are now among the leaders and foot soldiers of the radical Sunni groups operating in neighboring Syria and, increasingly, in Iraq itself.
巴格达——伊拉克的监狱里发生了一系列大胆的越狱事件，数百名久经战斗的武装分子从狱中逃脱，但这些事件鲜有受到关注。这些越狱者现在已经加入了在邻国叙利亚活动的逊尼派激进团体，成为领导人物或作战人员。这些团体也正越来越多地在伊拉克展开活动。 The role of the former inmates in fueling a new wave of Sunni jihad across the region is an unfortunate reminder of the breakdown of authority in Iraq since the United States departed in 2011, of the security vacuum that has spread around the region and of the ongoing threat of Sunni-led terrorist groups that the United States said it was fighting during its occupation of Iraq.
过去的在押人员对周边地区新一波逊尼派圣战活动的助推，令人不安地反映出美军自2011年撤离以来，伊拉克官方权威的瓦解，也反映出安全真空的状况已经在整个地区蔓延，以及逊尼派主导的恐怖主义团体正在构成持续的威胁。美国称，在军事占领伊拉克期间，就是在和这些团体作战。
The prison breaks also reflect the surging demand for experienced fighters, which led to a concerted effort by militant groups, particularly the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, to seek them in the one place where they were held en masse — Iraq’s prison cells.
越狱事件还说明，这些团体对有经验的作战人员的需求迅速扩大，因而武装团体开展了合作，从一个集体关押这种作战人员的场所搬兵，即伊拉克的监狱。这些团体中尤其值得注意的是“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）。
That group even had a name for its prison strategy, “Operation Breaking the Walls,” which unfolded during a 12-month campaign from July 2012 until a major break at Abu Ghraib, the main Iraqi prison, on the western outskirts of the capital, in July 2013. In all, American officials estimate, a few hundred of the escapees have joined the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, several in senior leadership roles.
ISIS甚至还为越狱战略取了一个名字——“破墙行动”。行动持续了12个月，从2012年7月开始，直到2013年7月阿布格莱布监狱(Abu Ghraib)的大规模越狱事件。阿布格莱布位于伊拉克首都巴格达的西部郊区，是伊拉克的主要监狱。美国官员估计，总计有数百名越狱者加入了ISIS，其中数名担任了高级领导职务。
While the group was already gaining strength in this period, an American counterterrorism official said, “the influx of these terrorists, who collectively have decades of battlefield experience, probably has strengthened the group and deepened its leadership bench.”
该团体在这一段时间里，实力本来就在增强。此外，一名美国反恐官员还表示，“这些恐怖分子总体而言有着数十年的实战经验，他们的加入可能增强了该团体的实力，也增加了其领导层的人员深度。”
One such escapee was Abu Aisha, who declined to be identified by his full name and is now leading a group of Qaeda fighters on the western edge of Falluja, his hometown, which for nearly six weeks has been held by antigovernment Sunni fighters. With Falluja under siege, the American government has been rushing guns, ammunition and missiles to help the Shiite-dominated Iraqi security forces and allied tribal fighters retake the city, where so many American Marines once fought — and died — nearly 10 years ago.
其中一名越狱者叫作阿布·艾沙(Abu Aisha)，他不愿公开自己的全名。阿布·艾沙现在在他的家乡费卢杰以西地区领导着一群基地组织的作战人员。在过去近六个星期里，费卢杰一直为反政府的逊尼派武装人员所控制。费卢杰现已被包围，美国政府正在忙于运送枪支、弹药和导弹，帮助由什叶派主导的伊拉克安全部队，以及同盟的部落武装人员重新夺回这座城池。近十年前，许多美国海军陆战队战士曾在这里作战并牺牲。
Abu Aisha was a car mechanic before 2003 but found new purpose in fighting the Americans. Many detainees, himself included, he said, spent their time in prison learning the ways of militant Islam, studying the Quran and Sharia law and preparing to return to waging jihad once free.
在2003年之前，阿布·艾沙曾是一名汽修技工，随后他发现了全新的人生目的，那就是抗击美国。他说，包括他自己在内的许多被关押者在监狱时，学习了偏激的伊斯兰教条、研读了《古兰经》和伊斯兰教法，准备一旦重获自由，就继续发动圣战。
Abu Aisha was originally arrested by the Americans and then released from Camp Bucca, the infamous American prison in southern Iraq, in 2008. He was rearrested by the Iraqis in 2010.
阿布·艾沙最初在2008年被美国人逮捕，之后从伊拉克南部臭名昭著的美国监禁设施布卡营(Camp Bucca)获释。在2010年，他又被伊拉克人逮捕。
“Finally, they put me in Abu Ghraib, and I again met some of the leaders and fighters I knew, including princes from Al Qaeda — Iraqis, Arabs and other nationalities,” he said. “Most of them had been at Bucca as well,” referring to an American prison in southern Iraq.
“最后，他们把我放进了阿布格莱布，我又遇到了一些以前认识的领导和战士，包括基地组织的大人物，有伊拉克人、阿拉伯人，也有其他国家的人，”他说。“他们当中多数也都在布卡待过。”
One night last summer, as Abu Aisha sat in his cell waiting, as he did each day, for his date with the executioner, explosions and gunfire erupted and a familiar prison guard opened the doors to his cell and told him to leave immediately. With hundreds of others, Abu Aisha ran through the prison’s corridors until he escaped through a hole that had been blasted through a wall. He hopped into a waiting Kia truck that took him to freedom — and back to the battlefield.
去年夏天的一天夜里，阿布·艾沙坐在牢房里等待着，就像他每天都做的那样，等待着行刑的日子。此时突然传来了爆炸和枪击的声音，一名认识的狱卒打开了牢房的门，让他立刻离开。阿布·艾沙和数百名其他囚犯一起，跑过了监狱的走廊，从墙上炸破的洞里逃出。他跳上了一辆在旁边等候的起亚(Kia)卡车，走向了自由，之后又重新走上了战场。
Abu Aisha said leaders of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria gave him a choice: leave and fight with them in Syria, or stay and fight in Iraq.
阿布·艾沙说，ISIS的领导人物给了他一个选择：要么离开伊拉克，到叙利亚与他们并肩作战，要么继续留在伊拉克战斗。
“Many of the leaders that I know went to Syria and the jihad there once they fled from Abu Ghraib,” he said in a recent interview. “Other fighters went there after a while because they felt they would be freer in Syria. I decided to stay with my group.”
“我认识的许多领导人物都是一离开阿布格莱布监狱，就去了叙利亚，加入那里的圣战，”他在最近接受采访时说。“其他战士过了一段时间也去了那里，因为他们感觉在叙利亚会更自由。我还是决定和自己的队伍待在一起。”
The prison breaks, and the mayhem they helped fuel in Syria, also had the effect of altering the calculus of many Western officials toward the war there. In the beginning, they saw the conflict in the terms of a dictator — President Bashar al-Assad — brutally oppressing his largely peaceful opponents.
越狱事件，以及它们在叙利亚帮助引发的混乱局势，改变了许多西方官员对叙利亚境内战争的考量。最初，他们对叙利亚内战的看法是，总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)这个独裁者残暴地镇压大体上和平的反对派。
But after the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria took on an increasingly important role in the fighting there — often battling with more moderate insurgent groups, to the dismay of Al Qaeda, which broke ties with ISIS over the issue — Western powers were even more reluctant to intervene.
然而，随着ISIS在叙利亚的战事中扮演的角色越来越重要，西方大国更加不情愿出手干预了。ISIS还时常与较为温和的反叛团体作战，这令基地组织产生了不满，并因此切断了与ISIS的联系。
Osama al-Nujaifi, the speaker of Iraq’s Parliament and the country’s most important Sunni politician, said that the escaped fighters “went to Syria to lead large fighting groups there.”
伊拉克议会议长乌萨马·努杰菲(Osama al-Nujaifi)说，逃脱的作战分子“去了叙利亚，在那里领导了大型的作战团体”。杰菲是伊拉克最重要的逊尼派政治人物。
“So, people started thinking, Is Bashar better, or is Qaeda better?” he said.
他说，“于是人们开始思考，巴沙尔和基地组织，那个更好一点呢？”
Many Western experts have blamed Turkey’s open-door policy along its southern border with Syria for fostering the growth of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and other extremist groups. But Turkish officials have pushed back, citing intelligence reports that trace the growth of the group to the Iraqi prison breaks.
许多西方专家批评，土耳其开放南部与叙利亚接壤的边境的政策，助长了ISIS，以及其他极端团体的发展势头。但土耳其官员予以了反驳，以情报机关的报告为依据，指出该团体的发展源自伊拉克的越狱事件。
More than 600 prisoners are believed to have escaped in the largest of these sophisticated attacks, facilitated by corrupt prison guards who were easily bought, the officials said.
官员们表示，在这类事件中，一次周密安排、规模最大的袭击事件据信导致超过600名囚犯逃脱。越狱事件受到了那些很容易买通的腐败狱卒的协助。
“We have always faced difficulties smuggling light weapons from Iraq to Syria through the Iraq border,” he said, “but it was very easy for ISIS to get full patrols of vehicles, weapons and fighters across to Syria.”
“我们要想越过伊拉克边界，把轻型武器从伊拉克运送到叙利亚，会面临很多困难，”他说。“但ISIS要想把一大批车辆、武器和作战人员弄到叙利亚，却十分容易。”
The Iraqi government has done little to explain how the prison breaks happened, although most agree that the inmates had help from the inside. Parliament members said that when they tried to investigate the Abu Ghraib break, they were stymied by security forces and top government officials.
伊拉克政府并没有对越狱事件何以发生给出多少解释，不过多数人都同意，囚犯从内部得到了协助。伊拉克议员说，他们试图调查阿布格莱布越狱事件时，受到了安全部队和政府高层官员的阻挠。
“Unfortunately, the government did not allow us to even get close to the prison for a week,” said Shwan Muhammed, a member of Parliament and one of the investigators.
参与调查的伊拉克议员舒安·穆罕默德(Shwan Muhammed)说，“很可惜，政府整整一个星期都没让我们接近监狱。”
Not all of the escaped prisoners returned to the fight.
并不是所有越狱者都回到了战场上。
Ahmed al-Dulaymi, 31, who fled from Abu Ghraib, is working as a farmer in Diyala Province, another Qaeda stronghold, using fake identification. Like many Sunnis in Iraq, he explains the recent resurgence of Sunni extremism as a reaction to the policies of the Shiite-dominated government, including broad security sweeps that have landed many innocent Sunni men in prison.
现在31岁的艾哈迈德·杜拉依米(Ahmed al-Dulaymi)从阿布格莱布监狱逃脱后，现在以伪造的身份在迪亚拉省务农，那里也是基地组织的一个重镇。像许多伊拉克逊尼派一样，他解释说，最近逊尼派极端主义的反叛，是对什叶派主导的政府所采取的政策作出的反应。那些政策中包括安全部门的大搜捕，搜捕中许多无辜的逊尼派男子被关进了监狱。
“Many of my friends were good people, but because of the government’s actions, my friends have become dangerous people and leaders in Al Qaeda,” he said. “Injustice is what gives birth to Al Qaeda.”
“我的很多朋友都是好人，但是因为政府的举动，我的朋友们变成了危险人物，变成了基地组织的领导者，”他说。“催生基地组织的，是不公。”