A surge of violence in Iraq continued Monday when 15 car bombs killed at least 50 people and injured more than 100, according to security officials.
安全部门官员表示，伊拉克的暴力浪潮仍在继续，周一发生的15起汽车炸弹袭击事件共导致至少50人死亡，100余人受伤。
Ten of the bombings were in Baghdad, mainly in Shiite neighborhoods. The targets included a hospital, a restaurant and markets. At least 34 people were killed and more than 100 were wounded, the authorities said.
其中10起发生在巴格达，主要发生在什叶派聚居区。暴力袭击的目标包括一家医院、一个餐厅和几个市场。官员称，至少有34人丧生，100多人受伤。
Officials in the Shiite-led government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, fearing that even more devices could be detonated, tightened security in Baghdad. Long lines developed at vehicle checkpoints as the security services searched cars for explosives.
伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的政府由什叶派领导，政府官员担心会有更多爆炸装置被引爆，于是加强了巴格达的安全工作。随着安全工作人员对车辆是否携带爆炸物进行检查，车辆检查站前排起了长龙。
Since the start of Ramadan on July 10, coordinated bombings and other attacks have intensified. That has revived fears that Iraq could return to the levels of sectarian violence seen over the last decade, after the American-led invasion in 2003.
自从斋月于7月10日开始以来，这里的有组织炸弹袭击及其他袭击严重加剧。人们又一次感到担心，伊拉克的宗派暴力可能会回到美国2003年入侵伊拉克之后那10年的水平。
While the violence is below the levels of the peak of the insurgency in 2006 and 2007, when the country moved to the brink of civil war, bombings remain common. As many as 700 people are believed to have been killed this month.
2006年至2007年，伊拉克走到内战边缘时，伊拉克的暴力冲突达到了顶峰。目前虽然还没有达到那种程度，但爆炸袭击确实在频繁发生。据信，本月已有多达700人在袭击中丧生。
Militants among the minority Sunnis have been emboldened by the civil war in neighboring Syria, where the Sunni majority has been trying to overthrow the government of President Bashar al-Assad, which is dominated by his Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiism.
居于少数地位的逊尼派当中的武装分子也因为邻国叙利亚的内战而变得愈发大胆。逊尼派在叙利亚占多数，一直试图推翻总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)由什叶派分支阿拉维派主导的政府。
The Iraqi Interior Ministry issued a statement urging resistance to the attackers’ efforts to feed sectarian divides, plunge the country into chaos and paralyze civil life. Without going into details, it warned that the attackers were able to mount such coordinated assaults because they had political and sectarian support.
伊拉克内政部发布声明，呼吁不要让袭击者得逞，称袭击者的目的是加剧宗派冲突，使国家陷入混乱，并使市民的正常生活陷入瘫痪。声明警告称，这些袭击者之所以能进行这种有组织的袭击，是因为他们有政治和宗派方面的支持，但并未对此进行详细解释。
In Kut, southeast of Baghdad, two car bombs exploded near a bus station, leaving six people dead and about 20 injured, according to a medical official.
在位于巴格达东南部的库特，有两枚汽车炸弹在一个公交车站附近爆炸。医疗官员称，此次爆炸袭击中共有六人死亡，约20人受伤。
One of the wounded, Ali Numan, 33, said: “We got wars from Saddam, we got tanks and rockets from the Americans, and now with Maliki we have car bombs every day. Nothing has changed in Iraq, and nothing will change. People die every day.”
伤者之一是33岁的阿里·努曼(Ali Numan)，他说：“萨达姆(Saddam)给我们带来了战争，美国人给我们送来了坦克和火箭炮，如今在马利基的领导下，我们每天都会经历汽车爆炸。伊拉克根本没有什么变化，而且也不会发生什么变化。每天都有人死去。”
Two car bombs detonated in Basra, in southern Iraq, killing at least three people near a market and wounding 14, a police official said. And in Muthanna Province, a car bomb exploded at a market in the city of Smawa, killing six people and injuring 19, according to a police official.
两枚汽车炸弹在伊拉克南部城市巴士拉的一个市场附近爆炸，一名警察说，至少有3人在爆炸中丧生，另外还有14人受伤。穆萨纳省斯马瓦市的一个市场也发生了一起汽车炸弹爆炸事件，一名警察称共有6人死亡，19人受伤。
There was also violence in Tikrit, north of Baghdad, where attackers blew up a house belonging to an Iraqi Army officer, killing one person and injuring two. Nine days ago, an explosion in the central Baghdad neighborhood of Karada killed nine people and wounded 17, the police said. That was part of a surge of violence that left at least 46 people dead inside and outside the capital.
巴格达北部的提克里特也发生了暴力事件。袭击者将一名伊拉克军官的住所炸毁，导致一人死亡，两人受伤。9天前，巴格达中心的卡拉达街区也发生了一起爆炸，警方称，共有9人丧生，17人受伤。这起爆炸事件只是巴格达内外共导致46人死亡的暴力浪潮的一部分。
Meanwhile, the commander of the Baghdad operations, Lt. Gen. Abdul Amir al-Shammari, said at a news conference that the security forces had recaptured 349 of roughly 800 prisoners who escaped from the Abu Ghraib prison this month.
同时，巴格达行动指挥官阿卜杜勒·阿米尔·沙马里中将(Lt. Gen. Abdul Amir al-Shammari)在新闻发布会上说，保安人员抓回了本月从阿布格莱布(Abu Ghraib)监狱里逃跑的约800名囚犯中的349名。