LAUSANNE, Switzerland — If U.S. negotiators are ultimately able to conclude a “political understanding” with Iran on its nuclear program, as they said they were striving to do Thursday morning, the seeds might have been planted earlier in the week.
瑞士洛桑——参与谈判的美方人员周四上午表示会尽全力就核项目与伊朗达成“政治谅解”，如果他们最终能做到这一点，那么成功的种子可能是在本周早些时候种下的。
With only hours to go on Tuesday night before the expiration of the end-of-the-month deadline that had been set by the White House, Secretary of State John Kerry and Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz stepped into a large tent erected in a luxury hotel here and dialed into a video conference with President Barack Obama.
白宫设下的最后期限是三月最后一天，在周二晚间期限到达几个小时前，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和能源部长欧内斯特·J·莫尼斯(Ernest J. Moniz)走入搭建在本地一家豪华酒店内的大帐篷，与贝拉克·奥巴马总统进行了一次视频会议。
There was no way to meet the deadline, Kerry said from the tent, which was designed to defeat eavesdropping. The Iranians, he said, perhaps sensing that the deadline meant a lot in Washington and little in Tehran, were intransigent.
完全不可能在最后期限前完成，克里在这个有反窃听能力的帐篷内说。他说伊朗人可能感觉到，这个最后期限对华盛顿很重要，对德黑兰却不算什么，因此态度十分顽固。
“They were turning our own deadline against us to see if we would give ground,” just to be able to claim that the March 31 date was met, one senior official said, who would not be named because of the secrecy surrounding the talks.
一位高级官员说，“他们在用我们自己定的期限对付我们，看看我们会不会退让，”就为了能宣布在3月31日前达成协议。由于谈判涉及机密，这位官员要求不具名。
Obama, according to two people familiar with the discussion, told Kerry and Moniz to ignore the deadline, make it clear he was ready to walk away and leave all sanctions on Iran in place and see if that would change the dynamic.
据两名了解谈话内容的人说，奥巴马让克里和莫尼斯不要理会截止期限，并明确表示他已经做好准备离开谈判桌，让制裁措施全面生效，看看是否能改变谈判的局面。
It is still not clear if the eleventh-hour change in tactics will succeed.
这个在最后关头做出的战术变化能否见效，目前尚不得而知。
But it was an example of the negotiating gamesmanship that has taken over the talks here. Kerry has kept his plane warmed up. Foreign ministers who came to sign an accord have returned home for other duties.
但由此可以看到心理是此次谈判的主要战场。克里让飞机随时准备起飞。前来签署条约的外交部长们也已回国处理其他事务。
Kerry spent Wednesday night meeting again with his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, for what diplomats said could be a series of pivotal sessions. At issue, officials said, were the pace at which sanctions would be lifted and restrictions on Iran's ability to develop new, advanced centrifuges, which are upward of 20 times more powerful than its current models.
周三晚上，克里和伊朗方面对等官员穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)再次会面，外交人士称这一系列会谈将是至关重要的。官员称，存在争议的地方包括解除制裁的步调，以及对伊朗开发新型尖端离心机的能力的制约，这种新型设备的性能将比当前型号高出20倍。