BAGHDAD — The Iraqi military, alongside thousands of Shiite militia fighters, began a large-scale offensive on Monday to retake the city of Tikrit from the Islamic State, a battle that could either become a pivotal fight in the campaign to reclaim north and west Iraq or deepen the country’s bloody sectarian divide.
巴格达——本周一，伊拉克部队和数以千计的什叶派民兵一起，发起大规模进攻，试图从伊斯兰国(Islamic State)手中夺回提克里特城。这场战役既有可能在收复伊拉克北部和西部的过程中发挥转折性的作用，也有可能加剧该国的血腥宗派分歧。
Iraqi state television announced the beginning of the offensive Monday morning, a day after Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi visited the forces massed on Tikrit’s outskirts and delivered a speech in which he said “zero hour” for the liberation of Tikrit was at hand.
本周一早上，伊拉克电视台宣布进攻开始。周日时，总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)检阅了集结在提克里特市郊的部队，并发表讲话，称提克里特的解放“就在眼前”。
While visiting Samarra, a town near Tikrit, on Sunday, Mr. Abadi promised amnesty to local residents who had been forced to join the Islamic State. But he said it was the last chance for them to lay down their arms and assist the security forces in pushing out the militants.
阿巴迪周日还前往提克里特附近的城镇萨迈拉，承诺赦免那些被迫加入伊斯兰国的当地居民。但他说，这是他们放下武器，协助安全部队赶走武装分子的最后机会。
It is not the first time the Iraqi military has sought to retake Tikrit in the months since the city, Saddam Hussein’s hometown and a Sunni stronghold, fell into militant hands during the Islamic State’s blitz through the country after seizing the northern city of Mosul in June last year. At the time, the militants’ offensive had even residents of Baghdad worried of a new conqueror, but the advance stalled near Samarra.
这已经不是伊拉克军方第一次尝试收复该城。提克里特是萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的故乡，也是逊尼派重镇。伊斯兰国去年6月占领北部城市摩苏尔以后，势如破竹地迅速攻下多个地区，提克里特也是其中之一。当时就连巴格达的居民都担心首都会沦陷，但武装分子的攻势在萨迈拉附近停滞。自那以后的数个月来，伊拉克军方曾多次试图夺回该城。
Several times since then, the army and allied Shiite militias — sometimes in defiance of objections from American officials, who warned of a sectarian blood bath should they enter Tikrit — have begun counteroffensives, only to abort them shortly after.
美国官员警告说，进攻提克里特可能引发教派屠杀。伊拉克军队与其什叶派民兵盟友有时不顾美国官员的反对，发起过数次反攻，但都在不久后放弃。
But Monday’s attack, which officials said involved more than 30,000 fighters supported by Iraqi helicopters and jets, was the boldest effort yet to recapture Tikrit and, Iraqi officials said, the largest Iraqi offensive anywhere in the country since the fall of Mosul to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
与过去几次相比，本周一的攻势最为猛烈。相关官员称，共出动了3万士兵，由伊拉克直升机和飞机提供空中支援，以夺回提克里特。伊拉克官员说，这是自去年秋天摩苏尔被伊斯兰国掌握后，全国范围内最大规模的一次攻势。伊斯兰国又称ISIS或ISIL。
By sundown Monday, fighting raged in the areas surrounding Tikrit, but the army and militia fighters had not yet pushed on the city center. The Islamic State, meanwhile, released a video that seemed designed to terrify any citizens who were considering aiding the advance by the security forces. The clip showed the execution by gunshot of four men, dressed in orange jumpsuits, who were said to be local tribesmen collaborating with the government.
周一日落之前，双方在提克里特周边地区进行了相当激烈的战斗，但伊拉克军队和民兵与该城市中心之间尚有距离。与此同时，伊斯兰国发布了一段视频，似乎旨在恐吓市民不要帮助安全部队的行动。这段视频中，有四名身穿橙色囚服的男子遭到枪决，伊斯兰国说他们是与政府合作的当地部落成员。
Alaa al-Ajeeli, a schoolteacher near Tikrit, described chaos in his village Monday morning. As mortar shells rained down and helicopters buzzed the sky, the militants began calling from loudspeakers for citizens to leave their homes and flee.
阿拉·阿吉里(Alaa al-Ajeeli)是提克里特附近的一名教师，他对本周一早上村庄一片混乱的情形进行了描述。迫击炮弹如雨点般落下，直升机在空中嗡嗡作响，武装分子开始用扩音器通知市民逃离家园。
“We all escaped immediately to various directions,” he said, explaining that many citizens fled to safer areas in Anbar or Kirkuk Provinces.
“我们立即四处逃散，”他解释说，很多市民逃到了安巴尔省和基尔库克省的安全地区。
In a speech Monday to Parliament, Mr. Abadi echoed the words of President George W. Bush in the aftermath of 9/11, saying that the residents of Tikrit were either with Iraq or with the Islamic State.
本周一，阿巴迪对议会发表演讲时，态度和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统在9.11袭击后的讲话很相似，他说，提克里特的居民如果不支持伊拉克，那就是在支持伊斯兰国。
“There is no neutrality in the battle against ISIS,” Mr. Abadi said. “If someone is being neutral with ISIS, then he is one of them.”
“在反对ISIS的战斗中没有中立立场，”阿巴迪说。“如果有人针对ISIS保持中立，那他就是其中一员。”
From a military perspective, capturing Tikrit is seen as an important precursor to an operation to retake Mosul, which lies farther north. Success in Tikrit could push up the timetable for a Mosul campaign, while failure would most likely mean more delays.
从军事角度来看，夺回提克里特会被看作是收复更靠北的摩苏尔的一个重要步骤。成功夺回提克里特可能会把摩苏尔战役提上日程，失败则将意味着更多延迟。
The American military, though, appears divided on the question of when the Iraqi military — which collapsed last summer in the face of the Islamic State onslaught — would be ready for a wide-scale offensive on Mosul, or in Anbar Province in the west of the country, which is also in the militants’ hands. Some American officials have backed off earlier estimates that it could happen as early as April.
但是对于在摩苏尔，或者同样被武装分子掌握的西部省份安巴尔，伊拉克军队何时能够做好开展大规模攻势的准备这个问题，美国军方的意见似乎并不统一。一些美国官员支持之前的估计，认为最早可能是在4月。就在去年夏天，伊拉克军队曾在伊斯兰国的猛攻前一败涂地。
Even a victory in Tikrit could be costly, given the prominent role of Shiite militias, which are feared by the Sunni population. And reports that the militias have carried out sectarian abuses in some areas have complicated efforts to persuade Sunnis to work with the government.
鉴于什叶派民兵的突出作用，即使胜利夺回提克里特，代价也可能会很高昂，因为逊尼派居民害怕什叶派民兵。一些报道称，这些民兵已经在有些地方开展宗派暴行，让劝说逊尼派与政府合作的工作变得愈加复杂。