WASHINGTON — Iran is building a nonworking mock-up of an American nuclear-powered aircraft carrier that United States officials say may be intended to be blown up for propaganda value.
华盛顿——伊朗正在以美国一种核动力航母为原型，建造一艘没有实际功能的模型船。美国官员表示，这么做可能是为了炸毁模型船以达到宣传效果。
Intelligence analysts studying satellite photos of Iranian military installations first noticed the vessel rising from the Gachin shipyard, near Bandar Abbas on the Persian Gulf, last summer. The ship has the same distinctive shape and style of the Navy’s Nimitz-class carriers, as well as the Nimitz’s number 68 neatly painted in white near the bow. Mock aircraft can be seen on the flight deck.
去年夏天，研究伊朗军事设施卫星照片的情报分析员首次注意到，靠近波斯湾的阿巴斯港加欣造船厂(Gachin)正在建造这艘船。这艘船具有美国海军尼米兹级(Nimitz-class)航空母舰那种独有的造型和风格，靠近船头的地方还匀整地用白漆刷上了尼米兹的号码68。飞行甲板上可以看到飞机模型。
The Iranian mock-up, which American officials described as more like a barge than a warship, has no nuclear propulsion system and is only about two-thirds the length of a typical 1,100-foot-long Navy carrier. Intelligence officials do not believe that Iran is capable of building an actual aircraft carrier.
美国官员表示，伊朗建造的这艘模型船没有核推进系统，更像是驳船而非军舰；典型的美国海军航母长度为1100英尺（约合335米），而它的长度大约只有其三分之二。情报官员不相信伊朗有能力建造一艘真正的航空母舰。
“Based on our observations, this is not a functioning aircraft carrier; it’s a large barge built to look like an aircraft carrier,” said Cmdr. Jason Salata, a spokesman for the Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain, across the Persian Gulf from Iran. “We’re not sure what Iran hopes to gain by building this. If it is a big propaganda piece, to what end?”
“根据我们的观察，这不是一艘可以正常运行的航空母舰，而是一艘看起来很像航母的大型驳船。”美国海军第五舰队发言人、海军中校贾森·萨拉塔(Jason Salata)说。第五舰队驻扎在跟伊朗隔波斯湾相望的巴林。“我们不知道伊朗建造它的用意是什么。如果它是一个大型宣传道具，那是要达到什么目的？”
Whatever the purpose, American officials acknowledged on Thursday that they wanted to reveal the existence of the vessel to get out ahead of the Iranians.
美国官员本周四表示，不管造这艘船的目的是什么，他们都想曝光它的存在，以便抢占伊朗人的先机。
Navy and other American intelligence analysts surmise that the vessel, which Fifth Fleet wags have nicknamed the Target Barge, is something that Iran could tow to sea, anchor and blow up — while filming the whole thing to make a propaganda point, if, say, the talks with the Western powers over Iran’s nuclear program go south.
美国海军和该国其他情报分析师推测，这艘被第五舰队戏谑地称为“目标驳船”(Target Barge)的模型船可能会被伊朗拖到海上、锚定位置，然后炸毁——并且拍摄整个过程。如果说，伊朗跟西方国家核谈走势不妙的话，这就可以用作宣传目的。
Iran has previously used barges as targets for missile firings during training exercises, filmed the episodes and then televised them on the state-run news media, Navy officials said.
海军官员说，伊朗以前也曾经在训练演习中，把驳船当作导弹攻击的目标，拍下视频，然后在国有媒体上播出。
“It is not surprising that Iranian military forces might use a variety of tactics — including military deception tactics — to strategically communicate and possibly demonstrate their resolve in the region,” said an American official who has closely followed the construction of the mock-up.
“伊朗军队可能会采取各种战术——包括军事欺骗战术——来进行战略宣传，也可能以此明志，显示它在该地区的决心，这些都不足为奇，”一位密切关注这艘模型船建造情况的美国官员说。
But unlike Iran’s efforts to conceal its underground nuclear-related sites, the Iranian Navy has taken no steps to cloak from prying Western satellites what it is building pierside at the busy shipyard. “The system is often too opaque to understand who hatched this idea, and whether it was endorsed at the highest levels,” said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
但是，跟伊朗隐藏其地下核设施的做法不同，伊朗海军没有采取任何措施来防止西方卫星窥探它在繁忙造船厂的码头区做些什么。“伊朗的运转机制透明度很低，难以弄清是谁想出了这个主意，以及它是否获得过最高级别领导者的同意，”卡内基国际和平基金会(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)伊朗问题专家卡里姆·萨德杰普尔(Karim Sadjadpour)说。
For now, Navy analysts and American intelligence officials say they are not unduly concerned about the mock ship. But the fact that the Iranians are building it, presumably for some mysteriously bellicose purposes, contrasts with the fact that the Iranians stepped back from their typically heavy anti-American posture during a recent naval exercise in the gulf.
就目前而言，美国海军分析师和情报官员说，他们对这艘模型船并不特别担心。但伊朗建造它想必有某种不为人知的、好战的意图，与之形成对比的是，最近在波斯湾进行的海军演习中，伊朗人放低了通常都很强烈的反美姿态。
Until recently, Iranian fast-attack boats have harassed American warships, and the government in Tehran has deployed remotely piloted aircraft that carry surveillance pods and that may someday carry rockets.
直到不久前，伊朗的快速攻击艇都在骚扰美国军舰，而且德黑兰政府还部署了携带侦察吊舱的遥控飞机，有一天它们携带的可能会是火箭弹。
With Iran’s multiple political bases of power, the government’s purposes can be hard to decipher. After the temporary nuclear agreement was reached in November between the world powers and the moderate government of Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, it was unclear to American officials whether Iran’s hard-line Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps might try to provoke a conflict with the United States Navy to undercut the accord.
由于伊朗权力的多方政治基础，政府的意图有时很难理解。美国官员还不清楚，在伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的温和派政府去年11月跟几个大国达成临时核协议之后，伊朗强硬派伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)是否会试图挑起与美国海军之间的冲突，以期破坏这个协议。
The navy of the Revolutionary Guards consists of fast-attack speedboats with high-powered machine guns and torpedoes, and crews that in the past employed guerrilla tactics, including swarming perilously close to American warships.
革命卫队的海军拥有快速攻击快艇，它们配备了高性能机枪和鱼雷，其船员过去往往采用游击战术，比如以危险的蜂拥而上的方式靠近美国军舰。
When the mock-up will take its maiden voyage — if it ever does — is anyone’s guess, analysts said. The vessel is nearing completion, they said, and will presumably be shipped by rail on tracks that run through the shipyard, to its destiny in the Persian Gulf just a few hundred yards away.
分析师表示，谁也说不准这艘模型船什么时候会进行处女航，也有可能永远不会出航。他们说，这艘船的建造工作已接近尾声，应该会使用穿过造船厂的铁路轨道，运送到仅几百码之外波斯湾上的目的地。