GENEVA — Iran is expected to make an offer on Tuesday to scale back its effort to enrich uranium, a move that a year ago would have been a significant concession to the West. But Iran’s nuclear abilities have advanced so far since then that experts say it will take far more than that to assure the West that Tehran does not have the capacity to quickly produce a nuclear weapon.
日内瓦——伊朗有望于周二提交一项缩减其铀浓缩活动的建议。如果放在一年前，此举算得上是对西方的重大让步。但和当时相比，伊朗的核能力已经有了大幅提升，因此专家们认为，要想让西方确信伊朗不具备快速制造出核武器的能力，这一举动还远远不够。
With thousands of advanced centrifuges spinning and Iranian engineers working on a plant that will produce plutonium — which also can be used in a weapon — Iran’s program presents a daunting challenge for negotiators determined to roll back its nuclear activities.
在伊朗，成千上万台高级离心机正不停地运转，工程师们在一家可以提取钚的工厂里作业（钚同样可以用于制造核武器）。对于志在削弱伊朗核活动的谈判者而言，该国的核计划无疑是个令人生畏的挑战。
Both sides enter the nuclear talks that begin here Tuesday with inherent strengths and weaknesses. Iran walks in with a nuclear program that cannot easily be turned back, while the West has imposed sanctions that have crippled the Iranian economy.
核谈判将于本周二在日内瓦启动。入场时，谈判双方将各自带着固有的优势和弱势。伊朗怀揣的是个不易回头的核计划，而西方实施的制裁已使伊朗经济严重受挫。
And if Iran is going to maintain the right to enrich uranium to even low levels, as it continues to insists it must, the West would surely demand highly intrusive inspections — far more than Iran has tolerated in the past. How these matters are resolved will go far in deciding the success or failure of the talks.
如果伊朗想保留哪怕是低水平浓缩铀的权利（它一直坚持必须保留），那么西方必然会要求实施密切核查，并且力度将远远超过伊朗过去所能容忍的程度。如何解决这些问题将事关此次会谈的成败。
In 2003, Iran had a relative handful of relatively unsophisticated centrifuges. Today, it has at least 19,000, and 1,000 of those are highly advanced. Those have been installed but are not yet being used to enrich uranium
2003年，伊朗只拥有较为简陋的相对少量的离心机。如今，离心机至少有1.9万台，而且其中1000台非常先进。后者已经安装完毕，但仍未用于铀浓缩。
That is more than enough, experts say, to transform low-enriched uranium from the 3 percent to 5 percent range to weapons grade in a few months — the so-called breakout that is unacceptable to the West and Israel.
专家认为，这足以让伊朗在数月内将3%-5%的浓缩铀转化为武器级的铀，而这种被称为“突破”的能力正是西方和以色列难以接受的。
“Ending production of 20 percent enriched uranium is not sufficient to prevent breakout, because Iran can produce nuclear weapons using low-enriched uranium and a large number of centrifuge machines,” said Gary Samore, a senior aide on nonproliferation on the National Security Council in President Obama’s first term.
“仅仅停止生产20%的浓缩铀不足以阻止伊朗‘突破’，因为它仍可以利用低浓缩铀和大量的离心机来制造核武器，”加里·萨莫雷(Gary Samore)说。他曾在奥巴马总统的首个任期内担任国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的防核扩散事务的高级幕僚。
In addition, Tehran is nearing completion of a heavy-water reactor that would be capable of producing plutonium for nuclear bombs, another factor that Western experts say argues for far broader constraints.
此外，伊朗即将完成一座重水反应堆的建设，而该反应堆将能提取用于制造核弹的钚。这也是西方专家主张对伊朗施加更多限制的另外一个原因。
The talks in Geneva are the first between Iran and the United States and five other world powers since the election of Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, who took office in August and has made a priority of easing the crippling sanctions imposed on Iran over its nuclear activities.
在日内瓦举行的本轮会谈，是哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)当选伊朗新总统以来伊朗与美国等六个世界大国之间展开的首次对话。今年8月份上任之后，鲁哈尼一直将减轻因核活动而受到的严重制裁作为首要任务。
A series of conciliatory messages and speeches from Mr. Rouhani and other Iranian officials — capped by a phone call to the Iranian president from Mr. Obama last month — has helped foster the most promising atmosphere for negotiations since 2003, when Mr. Rouhani was Tehran’s lead nuclear negotiator.
鲁哈尼等伊朗官员近期发出了一系列和解讯息与讲话，并以奥巴马上月与他通话作结。这有助于营造出自2003年以来最为光明的谈判氛围，而当时任伊朗首席核谈判代表的正是鲁哈尼。
A senior American official said on Monday that the United States was heartened by the change of tone in Tehran and believed that Mr. Rouhani’s election signals a sincere intention by Iran to chart “a more moderate course.”
一名美国高级官员周一表示，美国对伊朗态度的转变表示欣慰，并认为鲁哈尼的当选显示出伊朗有诚意走一条“更为温和的路线”。
But the official also said that the United States and its partners were still waiting to see if Iran would take concrete steps to constrain the pace and scope of its nuclear program, limit its growing stockpile of enriched uranium and be more open about its nuclear activities.
不过，该官员同时指出，美国及其盟友仍在观望，伊朗是否会采取切实措施，以约束核计划的步伐和规模、限制浓缩铀储备的增长，以及在核活动方面更为开放。
“We are going to make judgments based on the actions of the Iranian government, not simply its words, although we appreciate the change in its tone,” the official said.
“我们赞赏伊朗政府态度的转变，但我们将依据其行动而不只是语言来做出判断，”该官员称。
As hopeful as the Obama administration may be, a number of issues may prove contentious in the P5-plus-1 talks, involving the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council — Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States — and Germany.
奥巴马政府或许是抱有期望，但在这次5+1谈判中，许多问题仍会引发争议。所谓5+1，就是联合国安理会的五个常任理事国——英国、法国、中国、俄罗斯和美国——加上德国。
In hinting that they will accept some constraints on their nuclear program, for example, the Iranians have stressed that they want quick reciprocal steps to ease sanctions.
比方说，伊朗暗示愿意接受对其核计划做出一定的限制，但强调希望缓解制裁的回报措施迅速出台。
American officials have said that they are prepared to reciprocate, and the United States delegation here includes a senior expert on economic sanctions: Adam Szubin, the director of the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.
一些美国官员表示，愿意给予回报。此次美国代表团成员中包括一名经济制裁事务的高级专家：财政部外国资产控制办公室主任亚当·舒宾(Adam Szubin)。
But the United States is reluctant to withdraw the most effective measures, especially sanctions that have cut off Iran from the international banking system, until the main issues are solved. There are also limits to how far the administration can go without Congressional authorization.
不过，在主要问题得到解决之前，美国不愿撤销一些最为有效的举措，尤其是切断了伊朗与国际银行系统联系的制裁措施。而且，奥巴马政府在未获国会批准的情况下能走多远，这方面也面临一些限制。
Any easing of sanctions would be “proportional to what Iran puts on the table,” said the senior American official, who added that it was likely that the Iranians would “disagree about what is proportionate.”
前述美国高级官员称，制裁的放松程度都将与“伊朗摆在谈判桌上的东西成正比”。他同时表示，伊朗很可能会对“什么叫做成正比持有异议”。
Another potential obstacle is Iran’s insistence that its right to enrich uranium be acknowledged now as part of the negotiations under which it would accept constraints on its nuclear activity.
另外一个潜在的障碍是，伊朗坚持要求将承认其浓缩铀的权利这一点纳入谈判内容，只有这样才会接受对其核活动的限制。
The senior American official said that Iran had a right to a civilian nuclear energy program and that the United States was now prepared to talk about a “comprehensive” solution. But the official would not say whether Iran should be allowed to produce enriched uranium at home or limited to acquiring nuclear fuel from other nations.
该名美国高级官员称，伊朗有权发展民用核能计划，美国现在也愿意就“全面”的解决方案展开谈论。不过，此人拒绝评论是否允许伊朗在国内生产浓缩铀，或是仅能从其他国家进口核燃料。 
“We are prepared to talk about what President Obama said in his address at the U.N.,” the senior official said. “That he respects the rights of the Iranian people to access a peaceful nuclear program. What that is is a matter of discussion.”
“我们愿意讨论奥巴马总统在联合国大会发言中谈及的内容，”该官员表示。“也就是，他尊重伊朗民众和平利用核能的权利。至于这具体指的是什么，则有待讨论。”
Ray Takeyh, a former State Department expert on Iran, underscored the obstacles to a quick breakthrough.
美国国务院前伊朗问题专家雷·塔克耶(Ray Takeyh)强调了实现快速突破所面临的障碍。
“Both sides are victims of their success today,” Mr. Takeyh said. “Iranians have a mature nuclear program that they are reluctant to trade. The Americans have a substantial sanctions regime that they are averse to dismantling for anything but measurable Iranian concessions.”
“双方都是各自现今成就的受害者，”塔克耶说，“伊朗拥有成熟的核计划，并且不愿意拿来交易。而美国手里有大量成套的制裁措施，除非伊朗做出可观的让步，美国难以取消这些措施。”