“I WANTED nothing more than to be a foreign filmmaker,” Woody Allen said recently, “but of course I was from Brooklyn, which was not a foreign country. Through a happy accident I wound up being a foreign filmmaker because I couldn’t raise money any other way.”
“我曾经最想当一个外国电影人。”伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)最近说：“可是，当然啦我来自布鲁克林，那里不是外国。出了件挺巧的意外，让我到头来成了个外国电影人，因为我没有别的办法筹集到钱。”
Continuing a cinematic tour of Europe on which Mr. Allen has spent the better part of a decade making movies in Britain (“Match Point,” “Scoop,” “Cassandra’s Dream” and “You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger”), Spain (“Vicky Cristina Barcelona”) and France (“Midnight in Paris,” which won him the Academy Award for original screenplay), this wandering writer-director landed in Italy for his new film, “To Rome With Love.”
过去十年里，伍迪·艾伦大部分时间都在欧洲进行他的电影之旅，他的足迹遍布英国（《赛末点》（Match Point），《独家新闻》（Scoop），《卡珊德拉之梦》（Cassandra's Dream）和《遭遇陌生人》（You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger））、西班牙（《午夜巴塞罗那》（Vicky Cristina Barcelona））和法国（《午夜巴黎》（Midnight in Paris），这部电影为他赢得了一座奥斯卡金像奖——最佳原著剧本奖）。这位四处漫游的编剧兼导演继续前行，来到意大利拍了新片《爱在罗马》（To Rome with Love）。
That film, which Sony Pictures Classics will release on June 22, is an ensemble comedy featuring Alec Baldwin, Jesse Eisenberg, Ellen Page, Roberto Benigni and Mr. Allen himself among the Americans and Italians who get mixed up in a series of intertwining adventures and romances.
索尼经典影业公司在2012年6月22日发行的这部电影为一组喜剧。演员阵容包括亚历克·鲍德温（Alec Baldwin）、杰西·艾森伯格（Jesse Eisenberg）、艾伦·佩吉（Ellen Page）、罗伯托·贝尼尼（Roberto Benigni）以及伍迪·艾伦本人，他们和别的美国人、意大利人一起，被卷入一系列相互关联的冒险活动及浪漫情事。
After toying with titles like “The Bop Decameron” and “Nero Fiddled,” Mr. Allen changed the film’s name to one that reflected not only his affection for Italy but also for that country’s proud tradition of cinema and maverick filmmakers who inspired him to make personal movies of his own.
在考虑过像《波普十日谈》（The Bop Decameron）和《无聊尼禄》（Nero Fiddled）这样的片名后，艾伦先生把片名改得能反映出他不仅对意大利有感情，而且对这个国家引以为豪的电影传统以及那些标新立异的电影人有感情，那些电影人曾启发他拍出具有个人特点的电影。
As a teenager in New York, Mr. Allen, now 76, said in an interview by phone, “my group was hardly an intellectual group — it was a group of mugs.” But he added: “Italian movies were a great staple of our cultural diet. They were a tremendous influence in terms of showing us that one could make movies about mature subjects with profound themes.”
现年76岁的艾伦在电话采访中说，他十几岁在纽约时，“我的那个圈子很难称得上是个知识分子圈子，而是个恶人圈子。”然而他又说，“意大利电影在我们的文化生活中所占分量很重，对我们影响极大，它们向我们揭示了你可以就成年人会考虑的问题，拍出具有深刻主题的电影。”
Mr. Allen spoke to Dave Itzkoff about four movies by Italian filmmakers that influenced him most profoundly. “They invented a method of telling a story and suddenly for us lesser mortals it becomes all right to tell a story that way,” Mr. Allen said. “We do our versions of them, never as shockingly innovative or brilliant as when the masters did them.”
艾伦跟戴维·伊茨科夫(Dave Itzkoff)谈了四部意大利电影人所拍的电影，这几部电影对他影响至深。“它们创造出了一种叙事方式，让我们这些技逊一筹的人突然意识到我们完全可以那样叙事。”艾伦说：“我们拍出了自己的版本，但是远远不如大师们拍的那些电影，它们在创新和精彩程度方面令人震撼。”
‘THE BICYCLE THIEF,’ directed by Vittorio De Sica (1948). This, to me, was the supreme Italian film and one of the greatest films in the world. It was out when I was a teenager, in the same era as “Stromboli” and “Bitter Rice,” that wave at the time. When you see it, it seems so simple and effortless. I mean, what could be more simple? A guy has a bicycle which he needs for his livelihood, it gets stolen, and he goes to find it with his son. The boy’s relationship with his father was part anger, part desperate affection. It couldn’t help but make an impression on the most primitive level. You didn’t have to think about anything, you just watched the characters and their predicament. It’s flawless; every part of it works perfectly.
《偷自行车的人》（The Bicycle Thief，1948），维托里奥·德·西卡(Vittorio De Sica)导演。在我眼里，这部电影是最出色的意大利电影，也是世界最佳电影之一。我十几岁时这部电影上映，跟轰动一时的《火山边缘之恋》（Stromboli）和《艰辛的米》（Bitter Rice）是同时期作品。你看这部电影时，它似乎很简单，毫不费力。我是说，还有什么能比这还简单吗？一个人有辆自行车，他需要这辆车谋生，车被偷了，他跟儿子一起去找车。这个孩子跟父亲的关系部分是恼火，部分是爱到极点。这部电影无法不触及心灵。你不用考虑任何事情，只消观望着电影中的角色和他们的困境。这部电影完美无暇，每部分效果都极好。
‘SHOESHINE,’ Vittorio De Sica (1946). I saw this when I was more grown-up, in my 30s, and it was like a masterpiece that had slipped through the cracks for me. It must be a little-seen film because I never run into anybody who’s seen it. It starts off as a story of two kids just as friendly as can be, who buy a horse together, and the domino effect is terrible, the way things keep tumbling worse and worse for them. I do think that certain people do experience an anxiety over being wrongly accused or incarcerated and unable to make contact with the outside world, and things getting worse and worse — being separated from civilization and legal proceedings. But the poetry of the piece for me was the relationship of those two boys. It went from such simple, mutual excitement, affection, to where they are finally and violently opposed.
《擦鞋童》（Shoeshine，1948），维托里奥·德·西卡导演。我年纪渐长，30多岁时看到了这部电影，它简直就像一部杰作从裂缝里滑出来恰好又让我看到了。肯定很少有人看过这部电影，因为我从来没遇到有谁看过它。电影一开始讲的是两个亲密无间的小孩，他们买了一匹马，之后那种多米诺骨牌效应真是可怕，他们面临的情况越来越糟糕。我真的觉得，人在被冤枉或者关进监狱无法跟外部世界接触时，他与文明及法律程序相隔绝，使人感到焦虑，而且事情每况愈下。但是这部电影在我眼里的诗意之处在于：那两个男孩之间的关系。一开始是很简单的彼此情真意切，到最后却是暴力相向。
‘BLOW-UP,’ Michelangelo Antonioni (1966). It’s certainly not the best Antonioni film and not on par with the other three films I named, but a very charming experience. It’s so beautifully photographed by Carlo Di Palma, and the story was so interesting, even though it unravels in certain ways. Here’s a life that’s fully vital, full of music and beautiful women and open sex and swinging London at its height. But if you take a moment in that life and stop for a second, and blow it up and blow it up, what you see is death. And you are really present with David Hemmings when he discovers that. You’re in that studio with him when he does those pictures and puts them up on the wall and notices something. If you stop all the noise and color and glamour, and look very, very closely, you have to understand that death is ever-present. That was a very important idea for me.
《放大》（Blow-Up，1966），米开朗基罗·安东尼奥尼（Michelangelo Antonioni）导演。它当然不是安东尼奥尼的最佳电影，无法跟我提到的另外三部电影相提并论，但是这部电影让我看得很愉快。卡罗·迪·帕尔马（Carlo Di Palma）把它拍摄得很漂亮，故事也很吸引人，尽管从某些方面说来有点松散。它在现了一种活力四射的日子，充满了音乐、漂亮女人、放纵的性爱，以及伦敦的歌舞升平。但是如果你在那种生活中停下来一秒钟，放大，再放大，你看到的是死亡。戴维·海明斯（David Hemmings）发现这一点时，你感觉真的和他在一起。他放大那些照片，挂到墙上，凝望着什么的时候，你觉得跟他就在一起。如果你让所有的喧嚣、浮华停下来，看得非常非常仔细，就就会明白死亡始终存在。对我来说，这个点很重要。
‘AMARCORD,’ Federico Fellini (1973). I loved “The White Sheik” and “I Vitelloni” and “La Strada,” and of course “8 ½.” But “Amarcord” is one, for me, that I could see every year. He so clearly recreates his childhood in Rimini, and you’re there in that world, with his mother and his father, with his relatives, with local people, with the local stores, the local rituals of marching around the town square and things that everybody’s done: looking at strangers and seeing that they look like movie stars, and hanging out at the cinema, and ogling particular women who are the heartthrobs of the neighborhood. You are in a world that he recreated, and he recreated it not in a literal, photographic way — he did it in an exaggerated, cartoonlike way — and still, you’re there. You understand all those memories and experiences.
《阿玛珂德》（Amarcord，1973），费德里科·费里尼（Federico Fellini）导演。我很喜欢《白酋长》（The White Shek）、《浪荡儿》（I Vitelloni）、《大路》（La Strada），当然还有《八部半》(8 ½)，但是对我来说，《阿玛珂德》是每年都可以再看一遍的电影。他如此清晰地重建了他在里米尼的童年，你也一同前往那里，进入那个世界。那里有他的父母、他的亲戚、当地人、本地商店、围绕着镇广场举行的游行，还有每个人所做的事：看着陌生人，就像看电影明星一样看着他们，在电影院消磨时间，直勾勾地看着某些女人，她们在自己所住那一带迷倒众生。你身处一个由他再现的世界，他并没有平实、如相片似地再现，而是夸张、漫画式地再现，但你还是到了那里。你理解了所有那些记忆和经历。