Like many protagonists in Woody Allen’s movies, the title character in his new film, “Blue Jasmine,” sometimes speaks with a familiar stammer and exhibits a telltale existential dread. But beyond that, she could hardly be more different from her creator.
和伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)影片中的许多角色一样，新片《蓝色茉莉》中，电影以其名字命名的主角（Jasmine，贾斯敏，本意“茉莉”——编注）有时会以熟悉的口吃说话，显示出内心存在的恐惧。但是除此之外，她和她的创造者几乎没有什么不同。
Jasmine, a fallen New York socialite played by Cate Blanchett, is left emotionally brittle by the deceptions of her husband (Alec Baldwin), a philanderer and a financial huckster. Having fled to San Francisco to start anew, she is oblivious to the calamities that have stripped her of her station. She continues to be obsessed with class, status and luxury brands, and knows how to pronounce the name Louis Vuitton for maximum annoyance.
贾斯敏由凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)饰演，是个过气的纽约社交名媛，她的丈夫（亚力克·鲍德温[Alec Baldwin]饰）骗财骗色，让她变得感情脆弱。她来到旧金山重新开始，全然忘记了那些让她丧失过去地位的灾难，继续沉迷在格调、地位与奢侈品牌之中，会用最令人厌恶的方式念出路易·威登这个牌子。
For all the illusions torn away from her by the end of “Blue Jasmine,” a comedy-drama written and directed by Mr. Allen that Sony Pictures Classics will release in New York and Los Angeles on July 26, she stands as his latest distinctive female character in a roster full of them.
《蓝色茉莉》是伍迪·艾伦编剧、执导的喜剧剧情片，7月26日由索尼经典电影公司(Sony Pictures Classics)在纽约与洛杉矶发行。到了片尾，所有幻相都已从贾斯敏身周褪去，她最终成为艾伦影片中众多特殊女性角色中最新的一个。
In the span of more than 40 of Mr. Allen’s films, including “Annie Hall,” “Hannah and Her Sisters” and “Vicky Cristina Barcelona,” strong and memorable women have become as much a hallmark of his movies as the venerable Windsor font in their credits. These are women who dominate and who are subjugated, who struggle and love and kvetch and fall apart, but they rarely conform to simplistic stereotypes. Jasmine may be deeply troubled, but at least she’s deep.
艾伦的40多部电影中包括《安妮·霍尔》(Annie Hall)、《汉娜姐妹》(Hannah and Her Sisters)和《午夜巴塞罗纳》(Vicky Cristina Barcelona)，强大而难忘的女性角色成了他影片的重要标志，正如他影片的演职员表所使用的庄严的温莎字体。这些女人既有控制力也被征服；她们斗争、恋爱、抱怨、崩溃，但很少落入简单公式化的窠臼。贾斯敏可能深陷困境，但至少她很深刻。
Yet almost nothing connects these characters — who have been played by actresses including Diane Keaton, Dianne Wiest, Scarlett Johansson and Penélope Cruz — except that they have all sprung from the mind of the same filmmaker, one who professes no real insight into how he writes and casts his female characters but remains confident that he still knows how to create them.
然而她们彼此之间几乎没有什么联系——出演过这些角色的包括戴安娜·基顿(Diane Keaton)、戴安娜·威斯特(Dianne Wiest)、斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)和佩妮洛普·科鲁兹(Penélope Cruz)。这些女性角色之间唯一的共同之处可能就是她们都出自同一个电影人的脑海，此人宣称，关于如何创作出这些女性角色，以及如何为她们选择演员，自己其实没有什么想法，但对于继续创作这样的角色还是非常自信。
“People have criticized me for being narcissistic,” Mr. Allen said one June afternoon, over iced tea at the Bemelmans Bar of the Carlyle Hotel. “People criticized me for being a self-hating Jew, that’s come up. But not being able to create good women was not aimed at me very often.”
“人们批评我太自恋，”6月的一个下午，艾伦在卡莱尔酒店的贝米尔曼斯酒吧说，面前是一杯冰茶，“后来人们又开始批评我是个自我憎恨的犹太人。但是很少有人批评我不能创作优秀的女性角色。”
Mr. Allen may not wish to recall it, but his movies have also drawn charges of chauvinism and sexism, by detractors who have said they frequently depicted women as neurotics, shrews and prostitutes.
艾伦可能不愿回忆，但他的影片曾被诋毁者批评为沙文主义和性别歧视，他们说他的影片经常把女人塑造成神经质、泼妇和妓女的形象。
This chorus reached a climax of sorts in the 1990s, when acerbic films like “Husbands and Wives” and “Deconstructing Harry” were released and he had his notorious breakup with his frequent co-star Mia Farrow, who discovered his relationship with her adopted daughter, Soon-Yi Previn, now Mr. Allen’s wife.
20世纪90年代，他推出尖酸刻薄的《丈夫、太太与情人》(Husbands and Wives)以及《解构爱情狂》(Deconstructing Harry)；又和经常合作的影星米亚·法罗(Mia Farrow)不体面地分手，因为她发现了他与她的养女宋宜·普列文(Soon-Yi Previn)的恋情（宋宜如今已成为艾伦的妻子）。当时对他的大批判合唱可谓达到了顶点。
As the critic Steven Vineberg wrote in a 1998 essay in the Chronicle of Higher Education, “More and more, ‘Woody’ ” — Mr. Allen’s on-screen persona — “has taken on the uncomfortable role of apologist for Woody, whose woman problems are by now as well known as his movies.”
正如评论家史蒂芬·维恩伯格(Steven Vineberg)1998年在《高等教育纪事报》(Chronicle of Higher Education)上的文章所写：“伍迪的恋爱问题现在已经和他的电影一样有名了，而 ‘伍迪’（艾伦先生的银屏形象）则愈来愈开始充当伍迪·艾伦本人令人不快的辩护士角色。”
Still, Mr. Allen has continued to create a steady supply of substantial roles for women, often of ages unrecognized by Hollywood (that is, anyone over 30), with Ms. Blanchett’s potent “Blue Jasmine” performance arriving in the middle of a summer movie season that has been largely devoid of female faces.
然而，艾伦仍在源源不断地创造重要的女性角色，供那些在好莱坞的种种手段下难以辨认年龄的女演员（也就是任何超过30岁的女演员）饰演。夏日电影档期中段通常缺少女性角色的面孔，布兰切特在《蓝色茉莉》中极具说服力的表演来得正是时候。
For successive generations of actresses, the opportunity to work in one of Mr. Allen’s films has become a kind of career validation. And for Mr. Allen, the phase of his career that began with the 2005 release of “Match Point” has seen him delve into female characters who are further removed from his familiar life experiences, and more interested in finding and asserting their place in the world.
对于一代又一代女演员来说，出演艾伦的电影中意味着演艺生涯获得认可。而对于艾伦来说，他的事业生涯从2005年的《赛末点》(Match Point)开始步入新阶段，他开始进一步深入女性角色的内心，她们渐渐远离了他所熟悉的人生经历，开始热衷于寻觅和确认她们在这个世界上的位置。
Ms. Johansson, who starred in “Match Point,” “Scoop” and “Vicky Cristina Barcelona,” said in an e-mail that Mr. Allen “appreciates the versatility of the heroine, her ability to be both doe and lioness.”
在《赛末点》、《独家新闻》(Scoop)和《午夜巴塞罗纳》(Vicky Cristina Barcelona)中饰演角色的约翰逊在接受邮件采访时说，艾伦“欣赏女性主角性格中善变的一面，欣赏她能够同时身兼牝鹿与狮子的特质”。
“His openness to the possibility that a woman can be both hunter and hunted allows him to explore more deeply the complexity of the female spirit,” she said.
“女人可以既是猎手，同时也是猎物，他对这种观点持开放态度，因此可以深入探索女人灵魂中复杂的一面。”
Mr. Allen, 77, whose copper-colored hair has mostly gone gray, and whose demeanor was more wistful than impish, could not immediately account for why women figure prominently in his work except that, well, they interest him.
艾伦已经77岁，古铜色的头发几乎已经全部变成花白，他的举止富于沉思，并不顽皮，他一时不能说清为什么女性角色在自己的电影里举足轻重，只能说自己对她们非常感兴趣。
“They’re attractive, they’re complex, and the guys have never been portrayed superior to the women,” he said. “The guys are usually inferior, because they’re less grounded than the women.”
“她们又迷人又复杂，永远不应当把男性角色表现得比女人优越，”他说，“男人通常应该略逊一筹，因为他们不像女人那样脚踏实地。”
That surely applies to the nebbish Mr. Allen often plays in his own films. But those closest to him say the filmmaker should not be confused with his awkward, unknowing alter ego.
这话确实可以套用在艾伦经常在自己的电影里饰演的那种无用的人身上。但和他最亲近的人说，不可把这位导演和他在影片中那个笨拙无知的形象混淆起来。
“That’s a role he can play easily,” said Letty Aronson, Mr. Allen’s sister and longtime producer. “It’s almost as if that’s what people expect. They don’t expect him to be a Cary Grant type.”
“那只是他可以轻松扮演的角色，”艾伦的姊妹和长期制片人莱蒂·阿伦森(Letty Aronson)说，“好像人们期待的就是这样，他们不会希望他是加里·格兰特(Cary Grant)那种人。”
In fact, Mr. Allen credits his romantic relationship with Ms. Keaton that began in the 1970s with opening his eyes to the potential of female characters.
事实上，艾伦说他和基顿的恋爱关系从20世纪70年代，他刚刚开始发现女性角色潜力的时候就开始了。
In his earliest films, Mr. Allen said, “whether it was ‘Bananas’ or ‘Sleeper’ or ‘Play It Again, Sam,’ whatever silly little thing, they were always from a male point of view” — even “Annie Hall,” which begins with Alvy Singer speaking directly to the audience.
在他的早期影片中，艾伦说，“不管是《香蕉》(Bananas)、《傻瓜大闹科学城》(Sleeper)还是《呆头鹅》(Play It Again, Sam)，不管是多傻的小事，都是从男性的视角出发的。”——甚至连《安妮·霍尔》都是以男主人公艾尔维·辛格(Alvy Singer)直接对着观众说话作为开始。
But when he started dating Ms. Keaton, Mr. Allen said, “I started to appreciate her so much, personally and as an actress, that I started writing from the woman’s point of view.” In the movies that followed “Annie Hall,” he said, “It’s always more comfortable for me to write women.”
但当他开始和基顿约会以后，艾伦说：“我开始非常欣赏她的性格与演技，于是开始以女性的视角进行创作。”在《安妮·霍尔》之后的影片里，他说：“我开始对创作女性角色感到得心应手。”
As Ms. Keaton recalled it, their relationship was not unlike “Annie Hall,” with Mr. Allen becoming both her partner and mentor, offering her an attentive ear and introducing her to Freudian analysis.
基顿回忆，他俩的关系很像《安妮·霍尔》，艾伦成了她的伴侣与导师，周道地听她倾诉，还向她提供弗洛伊德式的解析。
“I was constantly complaining about things and constantly had this low self-esteem,” Ms. Keaton said, “and had a tendency toward crying and worrying about why I wasn’t good enough, and he took it.”
“我经常抱怨，对自己的评价也往往不高，而且还爱哭，担心自己不够好，这些他都接受了，”基顿说。
Not only did Mr. Allen pay attention, Ms. Keaton said, “he took an interest in my family and in my mother, who was a fantastic woman and a complex character, and in my sisters.”
基顿说，艾伦不仅关心她，而且“他对我的家庭，我的姐妹和我妈妈也很感兴趣，我妈妈是个很棒的女人，性格很复杂”。
The surest sign that Mr. Allen was listening to her was when she read his script for “Annie Hall” (written with Marshall Brickman) and her character’s voice sounded just like her.
艾伦确实认真听进去了她的话，最确凿的迹象就是当她在《安妮·霍尔》里说台词时（剧本是艾伦与马歇尔·布里克曼[Marshall Brickman]共同创作），她的角色的口吻听上去就和她本人一样。
“We can all feel it and understand it,” said Ms. Keaton, who won an Academy Award for her performance, “but we cannot write other people’s sounds.” Mr. Allen, she said, “can hear it — Annie Hall, flumping around, trying to find a sentence, that’s just remarkable what he did for me.”
“我们都能感受到，都能理解到，”凭借在《安妮·霍尔》中的表演，基顿赢得了奥斯卡金像奖，“但是我们无法凭空写出其他人的口吻。”她说，艾伦“可以听到它——安妮·霍尔，她步履沉重地踱步，字斟句酌打着腹稿——他为我所做的事就是这样不同寻常”。
In the years since, Mr. Allen has had little trouble casting the actresses he has wanted, landing the likes of Geraldine Page, Julia Roberts and Judy Davis, and helping earn Oscars for Ms. Wiest (a two-time winner, for “Hannah and Her Sisters” and “Bullets Over Broadway”), Mira Sorvino (“Mighty Aphrodite”) and Ms. Cruz (“Vicky Cristina Barcelona”).
自那以后，艾伦就可以毫不费力地招募自己想要的女演员，比如杰拉丹·佩奇(Geraldine Page)、茱莉亚·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)和朱迪·戴维斯(Judy Davis)。戴安娜·威斯特凭借在《汉娜姐妹》和《子弹横飞百老汇》(Bullets Over Broadway)中的角色两次赢得奥斯卡奖；米拉·索维诺(Mira Sorvino)凭《非强力春药》(Mighty Aphrodite)获得一次奥斯卡奖，科鲁兹也因在《午夜巴塞罗纳》中的表现获得奥斯卡奖。
(If anything, Mr. Allen’s practice of paying actors far less than they make on other films has driven away more men than women. “We have no money, and everyone knows it, and they think it’s kind of humorous now,” said Juliet Taylor, Mr. Allen’s veteran casting director. “There are people who have said, ‘I just don’t work for less than my price’ — mostly American male movie stars.”)
（艾伦付给演员的报酬比别的剧组要少得多，如果有什么区别的话，这一点赶走的主要是男演员而不是女演员。“我们没钱，所有人都知道，他们现在觉得这是一种幽默了，”艾伦的资深选片导演朱丽叶·泰勒[Juliet Taylor]说，“有人说‘我不能拿低于身价的报酬为你工作’——会这么说的主要是美国男影星。”）
Back when she was a casting assistant on “Bananas” in 1971, Ms. Taylor recalled, “when an actress would come in, the producer would talk to them because Woody was too shy.”
泰勒回忆，1971年为《香蕉》选角时，“每当有女演员走进来，就会由制作人和她们交谈，因为伍迪太害羞了。”
Today, “many of his good friends are women,” she said. “He is one of the guys who you can really sit and chat on the phone with for hours.”
如今，“他的许多好朋友都是女人，”她说，“他是那种你愿意坐下来，和他在电话里一聊几个小时的人。”
This does not mean his alumnae get any special treatment when they work with him in later projects. When Ms. Keaton reunited with Mr. Allen in 1993 for “Manhattan Murder Mystery,” she said he did not hesitate to call her out for struggling with an early scene.
这并不意味着他后来拍的片子里的那些女演员们可以得到特殊优待。1993年，基顿和艾伦再度合作，拍摄《曼哈顿谋杀疑案》(Manhattan Murder Mystery)，她说当时他毫不犹豫地大声指出前期的一场戏演得不好。
“He said, ‘That scene’s no good,’ ” she recalled. “And I’m going, ‘What am I going to do?’ I’d flown in from California.” After further takes, Ms. Keaton said, “he says, ‘Still no good.’ So finally he cut the scene out. Thank God he didn’t fire me.”
“他说，‘那场戏糟透了，’”她回忆，“我说：‘那我该怎怎么办？’我是从加利福尼亚坐飞机过来的。”基顿回忆，又拍了几遍之后，“他说：‘还是不行。’所以最后他就把那场戏删了，谢天谢地他没把我也给炒了。”
Mr. Allen said that his female characters sometimes spring from his own best guesses of how women might react in certain situations. “Now this does not mean I feel it or think it accurately all the time,” he said. “I don’t.” But in the case of Jasmine, she was inspired by a woman he’d heard about from his wife.
艾伦说，他会猜测女人在特定情景下会做出怎样的反应，而他笔下的女性角色有时就是从这种猜测中诞生出来。“这并不是说我随时随刻都在感受和思考这个问题，”他说，“不是的。”但贾斯敏这个人物的灵感确实源自一个他从妻子那里听来的女人。
This woman, Mr. Allen said, was “a very high Upper East Side liver” who “had a precipitous drop and had to downsize radically.”
艾伦说，这个女人，“过着非常高端的上东区生活”，“但后来状况急转直下，得非常节俭地度日。”
“She went from someone with charge accounts every place and a limitless amount of money, virtually, to someone who had to shop in bargain places and even get a job,” he said.
“她本来靠着赊账，过着挥金如土的生活，现在却得在廉价商店买东西，还得去工作。”
Sensing the makings of classic tragedy, Mr. Allen said, “if there was some way that she brought it on herself, it could fulfill some of those Greek requirements.”
这好像是个古典悲剧的题材，艾伦说：“如果这在某种程度上是她咎由自取，那就可以满足某些古希腊悲剧的条件了。”
The Jasmine character may well invite further criticism of Mr. Allen’s perspective on women, and whether there is something antiquated about the idea of a woman whose world is shattered when she loses her money and her man. But Ms. Blanchett said she had known similar people.
贾斯敏这个角色可能会为艾伦的女性观招来更多批评；一个女人如果失去了金钱和男人，那么她的世界也就完蛋了，这个观念是不是已经过时了呢？但是布兰切特说，她认识类似这样的女人。
“By circumstance or lack of confidence, their identity gets consumed by their partner,” she said. “Before they realize it, they’ve given away a lot of their autonomy and settled for security, and made a series of compromises.”
“由于环境的原因，或是缺乏信心，她们的人格被伴侣损耗了，”她说，“不知不觉间，她们就已放弃太多自主权，只为获取安全感，并且做出一系列妥协。”
Though Ms. Blanchett played a similarly lost soul as Blanche DuBois in a heralded stage production of “A Streetcar Named Desire,” she said “Blue Jasmine” more immediately reminded her of playing Shakespeare’s Richard II, of “that sense of falling from grace, the delusion, the interface between the role you’re given and the one you’re longing to inhabit.”
布莱切特曾在一个前卫版的《欲望号街车》(A Streetcar Named Desire)舞台剧中饰演布兰奇·杜波依斯(Blanche DuBois)，也是类似的失落灵魂。但她说，《蓝色茉莉》更让她联想起在莎士比亚的《理查二世》(Richard II)中演出的经验，“那种尊严扫地，那种妄想幻觉，以及你被赋予的角色与你渴望成为的那个人之间的冲突。”
Having played the opposite sex in the film “I’m Not There,” Ms. Blanchett said she found a freedom in it that Mr. Allen might also take from writing women’s roles.
布兰切特在《我不在那儿》(I’m Not There)一片中曾有过反串男角的经历，她说，那次经历赋予她一种自由，艾伦在创作女性角色的时候可能也有同感。
“Often you can write more closely about your own perspective and experience of the world through a character of a different gender,” she said.
“通过创作另一个性别的角色，你通常可以更亲切地表达自己的人生经历与对世界的看法，”她说。
Ms. Blanchett said she tried to suggest as much to Mr. Allen while working on a scene for “Blue Jasmine.”
布兰切特说，在拍《蓝色茉莉》中的一幕戏时，她曾试着给艾伦建议。
“I said, ‘How would you do this, Mr. Allen?’ ” she recalled. “And he said, ‘Well, if I were playing the role, ’ and I turned to him with a backwards grin and said, ‘You know, you could have played this role.’ ”
“我说：‘换了你会怎么做？艾伦先生？’”她回忆，“他说：‘哦，如果我来演这个角色嘛……’我转向他，脸上带着笑说：‘你知道，你本来可以扮演这个角色的。’”
Mr. Allen paused and thought about it “for a good minute and a half,” Ms. Blanchett said, “and then he said, ‘No, it would have been too comic.’ ”
艾伦停顿了一下，思考了“整整一分半钟，”布兰切特说，“然后他说：‘不，这样就太喜剧了。’”
Mr. Allen, who cast himself as Blanche DuBois and Ms. Keaton as Stanley Kowalski for a comic re-enactment of “A Streetcar Named Desire” in his film “Sleeper,” said that he often yearned to play the kinds of women he writes, who are given license to be “emotional and sarcastic and flamboyant.”
艾伦在自己的影片《傻瓜大闹科学城》中曾恶搞地上演了《欲望号街车》，他自己饰演布兰奇·杜波依斯，基顿饰演斯坦利·考瓦尔斯基(Stanley Kowalski)，他说自己经常渴望饰演自己笔下的各种女人，她们有权利“情绪化、尖酸刻薄、花枝招展”。
“I always wanted to play those parts,” he said. “I always felt I could play them because I feel those kinds of things.”
“我一直都希望扮演这样的角色，”他说，“我总觉得自己能扮演她们，因为我也有这样的感受。”
Ms. Johansson affirmed that Mr. Allen had a feminine side in him that longed to break out.
约翰逊也说，艾伦身上有女性化的一面，他一直渴望把这一面暴露出来。
“I believe Woody, at heart, would have been happiest to have been born as the classic opera diva,” she said. “He lives for dramatic flare, gossip, intrigue, crippling heartache and turmoil — just as long as it’s happening to someone else.”
“我相信，伍迪在心里觉得，假如能一生下来就成为古典歌剧天后，那他就太幸福了，”她说，“他是为戏剧性的火花、小道消息、阴谋、沉重的打击与动荡而生——只要这一切都是发生在别人身上。”
But Mr. Allen dolefully accepted his role as an observer of women’s lives rather than an inhabitant. When he made his 1987 drama “September,” he said he wanted to play the role of an audaciously outspoken mother that instead went to Elaine Stritch.
但艾伦只能悲哀地接受自己的角色：他不能作为女性而生活，只能做她们生活里的旁观者。1987年，当他拍摄剧情片《九月》(September)时，他说自己希望扮演那个心直口快的母亲角色，后来这个角色由伊莱恩·斯特里奇(Elaine Stritch)饰演。 
Had he kept the part for himself, “it would have been a one-joke comedy,” Mr. Allen said. “They’d laugh when I came in, and after five minutes of that, they’d want to go.”
假如当初他真的扮演了这个角色，“那片子就会成为喜剧笑话，”艾伦说，“我一亮相观众就会笑起来，五分钟后，他们就要退场了。”