PROVIDENCE, R.I. — The cafe here on Westminster Street that was the location for a future Woody Allen movie looked like an elaborate stage illusion, surrounded by large screens that focused light into the restaurant, while also concealing any action within from onlookers outside.
普罗维登斯，罗德岛——威斯敏斯特街上的一座咖啡馆是伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)下一部电影的外景地，它看上去像是精心搭建的舞台幻相，四周环绕着巨大的银幕，让光线聚集在饭馆之内，也让外面的围观者看不到里面的情况。
In time, Mr. Allen will raise the curtain on that particular act, starring Emma Stone and Joaquin Phoenix. But for now, that trickster was keeping it hidden, emerging from his protective barriers only to talk about another motion picture, “Magic in the Moonlight,” which opens July 25.
过段时间之后，艾伦会为这幕由艾玛·斯通(Emma Stone)和杰昆·菲尼克斯(Joaquin Phoenix)主演的戏码揭开帷幕。但现在，这个魔术师还得把一切都隐藏起来，他从重重防护之后现身，只是为了说一说自己的另一部电影——7月25日上映的《魔力月光》(Magic in the Moonlight)。
Written and directed by Mr. Allen, this comedy tells the tale of a 1920s stage magician (played by Colin Firth) whose sober belief in the empirical world is sorely tested by an enticing younger woman (Ms. Stone) who claims to be a psychic medium.
这部喜剧片由艾伦编剧并导演，讲述一个20世纪20年代魔术师（柯林·费斯[Colin Firth]饰演）的故事，认识了一个自称灵媒的迷人年轻女人（艾玛·斯通饰演）后，他对经验世界的清醒信仰受到了痛苦的考验。
Issues of artifice and uncertainty are pervasive in Mr. Allen’s work and life. “Magic in the Moonlight” is the latest of his films to exhibit his fascination with the early 20th century and to offer a philosophical arena where the forces of rationality and spirituality can duke it out, though it is no secret which side the author favors.
在艾伦的事业与生活中，诡计与不确定随处可见。《魔力月光》是他最新一部展现自己对20世纪初的迷恋的影片，同时也提供一个哲学的舞台，让理性与灵性展开斗争，虽然导演本人青睐哪一方早已不是秘密。
“I’m like Blanche DuBois,” said Mr. Allen, 78, sitting on an ice chest in a parking lot outside the cafe. “I hope in life that there’s a certain amount of magic. Unfortunately, there’s not enough. There are little, sporadic things one could think of as magical. But for the most part, it’s grim reality.”
“我就像布兰奇·杜波依斯(Blanche DuBois)，”78岁的艾伦坐在咖啡馆停车场的冰柜上说。“我希望人生中有一定的魔力。不幸的是，这样的魔力不够多。零星有一点东西可以说是有魔力的，但大多数时候都是严峻的现实。”
Those remarks may simply reflect the comically crushing skepticism of Mr. Allen, who has considerable power to construct his own worlds, fictional and otherwise.
这番话或许反映出伍迪·艾伦充满喜剧色彩的怀疑主义，他拥有巨大的力量，可以通过虚构或是别的什么手段，构建出自己的世界。
But the comments could also apply to the tumult of recent months, when he was confronted with past accusations he may have thought had vanished; and the reality that “Magic in the Moonlight” may test whether his audience has disappeared.
但是近几个月来，各种评议也造成了喧哗，他本以为早就销声匿迹的指控如今又出现在他面前；《魔力月光》或许正好可以检测他的观众是否已经消失。
Magic — the form that has worked in Mr. Allen’s favor — has appeared in his movies in various guises, whether overtly, as in films like “Scoop” (the 2006 film in which he played a fumbling would-be Houdini), or obliquely, as in the 1985 comedy “The Purple Rose of Cairo” (in which a movie character stepped off a screen into real life).
魔力——这种形式一直偏爱着伍迪·艾伦，它以不同的形式出现在他的影片中。有时非常明显，就像2006年的《独家新闻》(Scoop)，他在其中饰演一个笨手笨脚、自诩为逃脱大师的人；也有时拐弯抹角，就像1985年的喜剧《开罗紫玫瑰》(The Purple Rose of Cairo)，片中一个电影角色从银幕上走下来，走进了现实生活。
In his adolescence, Mr. Allen said, he was obsessed with stage magic and taught himself card tricks and sleight-of-hand stunts, even performing them for small audiences. But, given what he called “my inherent criminal personality,” Mr. Allen said, “I was interested in being a gambler, a card hustler, a dice hustler.”
艾伦说，青春期时，他迷恋魔术表演，自学了纸牌魔术和其他手上的魔术小把戏，甚至还给一小群观众表演过。但是，鉴于他所谓的“我的内在犯罪人格”，艾伦说，“我对成为赌徒很感兴趣，就是靠打牌和赌骰子骗钱的骗子。”
“It was aiming to a life of borderline crime,” he added.
“这是一种犯罪边缘的生活，”他补充。
Letty Aronson, Mr. Allen’s sister and longtime producer, said from the set that her brother’s early interest in prestidigitation was a sign that he was “very, very observant of small things that happen in everyday life.”
艾伦的姊妹和长期制作人莱迪·艾伦森(Letty Aronson)说，从艾伦对魔术的早期爱好，可以看出他“非常、非常善于观察日常生活中细小的事物”。
But there was a mischievous side to Mr. Allen’s magic act, too. When Ms. Aronson asked him for the secret of a certain knife trick, she recalled: “He said, ‘If you give me $5, I’ll sell it to you.’ So I gave him $5. I never got the knife, and I still don’t know how it was done.”
但是艾伦的魔术表演中也有恶作剧的一面。艾伦森回忆，有一次她问艾伦，某种刀子魔术究竟是怎么变的，“他说，‘给我五美元，我就告诉你’。于是我给了他五美元。之后我终究没能得到那把刀子，到现在也不知道那个魔术到底是怎么变的。”
As a filmmaker, Mr. Allen has been a vocal disbeliever in a world beyond what is perceivable, as certain that there is no foundation for it as he is that such faith could never take root in him, though he holds a certain fascination with those who possess it.
身为电影制作人，艾伦对可知觉范围之外的世界持有雄辩的怀疑态度，他确信那个世界没有根基，也确信关于那个世界的信念从未在自己心中生根，尽管他对持有这种信念的人有着特定的迷恋。
“But if you’re the kind of person that finds it hard to deceive yourself — even though it’s seductive to believe the other thing — then you’re stuck with it,” he said. “The overwhelming amount of logic and evidence is that we’re all victims of a bad deal.”
“但如果你是那种很难欺骗自己的人——尽管‘去相信点别的什么东西’这种想法很有诱惑力——你就会固执己见，”他说。“大量逻辑与证据表明我们都是一个恶劣交易的牺牲品。”
The trials that Mr. Firth’s character undergoes in “Magic in the Moonlight” — he badly wishes Ms. Stone’s psychic is not a fake, and even resorts to prayer in a desperate moment — might seem to indicate that Mr. Allen is more flexible about his beliefs than he is willing to acknowledge.
费斯的角色在《魔力月光》中经历了考验——他极其希望斯通那个角色的身体不是假的，在一个特别绝望的时刻甚至为之祈祷——这些考验似乎表明艾伦对待信仰比他自己愿意承认的更加灵活。
Mr. Allen denied this, though his leading man thought it was plausible.
艾伦对此表示否认，尽管他的男主角认为这有可能。
“Woody must at least understand that certainty is to be questioned,” Mr. Firth said in a telephone interview. “Sometimes there are more paradoxes in good writing that are revealed about the person than they might consider.”
“伍迪至少理解事物的确定性是应当质疑的，”费斯在电话采访中说，“有时候在优秀的写作中存在更多悖论，揭示创作者的内心，甚至超出他们本人的意愿。”
As further evidence, Mr. Firth cited a favorite line from Mr. Allen’s short story “The Condemned,” a pastiche of Camus-style existentialism: “Cloquet hated reality but realized it was still the only place to get a good steak.”
费斯还从艾伦的短篇小说《被谴责者》(The Condemned)里举了自己喜欢的一句话作为进一步例子，这部小说是对加缪式存在主义的模仿：“克洛凯憎恨现实，但发现只有在现实中才能吃到一块好牛排。”
Mr. Firth said: “You can actually read a lot into that. You can escape and escape, but there are things in the world, hard facts and cause and effect, that you cannot deny.”
费斯说：“你从中可以读出很多东西。你可以一再逃避，但世界上有很多东西，残酷的现实和因果都是你无法否认的。”
A streak of escapism might also account for Mr. Allen’s frequent return to pleasant depictions of the pre-World War II decades, the setting not only of “Magic in the Moonlight” but also of “Radio Days,” “Bullets Over Broadway” (the film and the Broadway musical), “Zelig” and others.
或许也是由于一丝超越现实的空想，艾伦经常愉快地描述“二战”前的岁月，这段时期这不仅是《魔力月光》的背景，也是《无线电时代》(Radio Days)、《子弹横飞百老汇》（Bullets Over Broadway，有电影和百老汇音乐剧版本）和《西力传》(Zelig)等影片的背景。
Mr. Allen said this seeming preference was more like pragmatism — the most logical time when these stories would take place — and he said he was not a nostalgic person. “Nostalgia is a trap,” he added. “It’s a pleasant, sticky substance, like honey, that you fall into.”
艾伦说，这表面上是他对那个时代的偏爱，其实是一种实用主义——从逻辑上说，这些故事最有可能在那个时代发生——他说自己并不是一个怀旧的人。“怀旧是个陷阱，”他补充道，“它甜蜜粘稠，就像蜂蜜一样，你就陷进去了。”
(Ms. Aronson, his sister, affirmed that he had no real desire to exist in the past. “Believe me, he could not live in those days with no air conditioning,” she said.)
他的姊妹艾伦森断言，他并不渴望生活在过去。“相信我，他在没有空调的时代可活不下去，”她说。
But other close observers of Mr. Allen’s work were skeptical of this claim.
但另一个伍迪·艾伦电影的密切关注者对此表示怀疑。
David Thomson, The New Republic film critic and author of “The New Biographical Dictionary of Film,” described Mr. Allen as “a major-league fantasist, in which he is the central figure,” adding that this was “entirely laudable and maybe necessary in an artist.”
《新共和》(The New Republic)杂志的电影评论家，以及《电影人物传略新字典》(The New Biographical Dictionary of Film)一书的作者大卫·汤姆森(David Thomson)说艾伦是“一级幻想大师，他在这些幻想中是核心人物”，还说“这对于艺术家来说是应当赞美的，或许是必不可少的”。
“His mingling with attractive actors and actresses has been an immense fantasy inspiration to him,” Mr. Thomson said of Mr. Allen.
“他和那些迷人的男女演员们的交往成了他巨大的幻想灵感，”汤姆森这样评价艾伦。
“We know, as much as we know anything about him, that he cherishes the world of those old movies,” Mr. Thomson said. “And yet he clearly recognizes you can’t bring it back. It’s a much chillier age today. You feel he’s pained by that.”
“我们知道，根据我们对他的了解，他热爱老电影的世界，”汤姆森说，“他显然也明白，那个世界回不来了。如今是一个更加冷酷的时代，你可以感觉到他为此而痛苦。”
These fanciful renderings of bygone eras are surely more comfortable than the period this past winter, when Mr. Allen was publicly challenged by his adoptive daughter Dylan Farrow, who said in The New York Times and in other publications that Mr. Allen sexually molested her when she was a child.
和刚刚过去的这个冬天相比，显然还是诠释过去更加轻松舒适——这个冬天，迪伦遭到继女迪兰·法罗(Dylan Farrow)公开指责，她在《纽约时报》和其他出版物上宣称艾伦在她小时候对她进行性侵犯。
In an Op-Ed article in The Times in February, Mr. Allen wrote, “Of course, I did not molest Dylan,” saying that a police investigation had cleared him at the time and adding that the piece would be his “final word on this entire matter.”
在《纽约时报》2月的一篇专栏文章中，艾伦写道：“我当然没有侵犯迪兰，”他说，当时的警方调查已经澄清他的嫌疑，并说这篇文章是他“对整件事的最后一次发言”。
Here in Providence, Mr. Allen dismissed the possibility that lingering outrage could affect the public’s interest in “Magic in the Moonlight.”
在普罗维登斯接受采访时，艾伦认为这件事情的余波不会影响公众对《魔力月光》的兴趣。
“No thoughts like that occur to me,” he said to this reporter. “They only occur to you guys.”
“我从来没有这样的想法，”他对记者说，“你们这些人才会这样想。”
“I don’t think anyone has ever not come to a film of mine that they thought they would enjoy,” he added. “Nothing keeps them away if they think they’ll enjoy the film. And if they don’t think they’ll enjoy the film, nothing we can do ever brings them in.”
“我可不认为那些喜欢我电影的人会不来看我的电影，”他说。“如果他们喜欢这部电影，那就没有什么能阻止他们来看。如果他们觉得不喜欢这部电影，我们无论怎么做也不可能吸引他们。”
Ms. Aronson agreed it would be “sheer stupidity” for Mr. Allen’s fans to avoid his future films. “If they like Woody Allen movies, what are they doing?” she said. “They’re not hurting him. They’re hurting themselves.”
艾伦森表示同意，说如果艾伦的影迷抵制他未来的电影，那会是“纯粹愚蠢的行为”。“如果他们喜欢伍迪·艾伦的电影，那他们会怎样呢？”她说。“他们不能伤害他，他们是在伤害自己。”
Asked if the recent scrutiny weighed on Mr. Allen, Ms. Aronson said: “No, not at all. And I think this year’s rehashing of everything made everything so much more obvious.”
最近受到的密切关注是否对艾伦有影响呢？艾伦森说：“完全没有。我认为这一年来的老调重弹让一切都变得更清晰了。”
Whatever people want to believe about Mr. Allen, “there’s nothing you can do,” she said. “You just move on and go on with your life, which is what he’s done.”
不管人们是否愿意相信艾伦，“你都对此无能为力，”她说。“你只需前进，继续自己的生活，他就是这样做的。”
A publicist for Ms. Stone said she was unavailable for comment.
斯通的公关人员说斯通对此无可奉告。
Mr. Thomson said that Mr. Allen’s “annus horribilis was some time ago” — that is, when he separated from Mia Farrow in 1992 and the sexual-abuse claims against him were first made.
汤姆森说，“艾伦的灾难年其实发生在若干年前”——就是1992年他和米亚·法罗(Mia Farrow)离婚，并且第一次受到性侵指控的时候。
“I don’t have the impression that it threw him off stride very much,” Mr. Thomson said.
“我觉得这并没有过分打乱他的步伐，”汤姆森说。
Professionally, Mr. Allen still enjoys wide latitude to make movies as he wishes. His last three directorial efforts, “Midnight in Paris” (which sold $151 million in tickets worldwide), “To Rome With Love” ($73 million) and “Blue Jasmine” ($97 million), are among his most lucrative movies ever, with “Blue Jasmine” earning its lead actress, Cate Blanchett, an Academy Award.
从职业角度出发，艾伦仍然拥有随心所欲拍摄电影的广泛空间。他的上三部导演作品都是他最卖座的影片，《午夜巴黎》(Midnight in Paris)在全球创造了1.51亿美元票房，《爱在罗马》(To Rome With Love)获得了7300万美元票房，《蓝色茉莉》(Blue Jasmine)获得了9700万美元票房，其中《蓝色茉莉》的女主演凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)还获得了奥斯卡奖。
Mr. Allen said that his next four films, including the currently untitled one he is making with Ms. Stone and Mr. Phoenix, have financing, and he has the full support of Sony Pictures Classics, which has released his recent films, including “Magic in the Moonlight.”
艾伦说自己的下四部电影（包括由斯通与菲尼克斯主演，目前尚未命名的这一部）都已经有了资金，索尼经典电影公司也全力支持他，他最近的电影，包括《魔力月光》都是由该公司发行的。