Every season has its “It” bag, but there’s something to be said for foregoing the obvious designers in favor of carrying something more discreet. For spring/summer, a host of under-the-radar new labels — from a revamped Parisian import to a locally sourced line out of Portland — offer some of the most striking and contemporary carryalls around.
每一季都有最“当季最佳”的手包，但是不理会那些平淡无奇的设计师品牌，转而关注那些设计更用心的手包，我们会发现有很多可说的。对春夏季来说，一大堆不为人注意的新品牌——从改造过的巴黎进口品牌到波特兰的地方品牌——推出了一些最引人注目、最具当代感的大手袋。
Geometry
几何(Geometry)
This burgeoning L.A.-made bag line fuses practicality with inspired design, while its direct-to-consumer sales model keeps prices for its high-end leather goods relatively low. New models are introduced only occasionally; the latest, “Big Business,” is the result of the designers’ quest for the perfect woman’s work bag. Geometry’s four founders — Mathew Swenson, Alexandra Spunt, Nate Scott and Morgan Hirsch — also have altruistic goals for their project: through sporadic online auctions, they will donate proceeds from one-off versions of their pieces to Kahn Academy, Africa Schoolhouse and other education-focused charities.
这个生机勃勃的洛杉矶手袋品牌将实用与有灵感的设计结合起来，它的直销模式又能使其高档皮质产品的价格相对较低。它偶尔才推出新款，最新的“大生意”(Big Business)款是设计师们对完美女用工作手袋不懈追求的结晶。几何的四位创始人——马修·斯温森(Mathew Swenson)、亚历山德拉·斯彭特(Alexandra Spunt)、纳特·斯科特(Nate Scott)和摩根·赫希(Morgan Hirsch)——发展自己的事业还有一些无私的目的：他们对某些孤品进行不定期在线拍卖，将收益捐赠给卡恩学院(Kahn Academy)、非洲校舍(Africa Schoolhouse)和其他关注教育的慈善机构。
Etelka
埃特尔卡(Etelka)
Before founding his brand-new label — which takes its name from a family member — John Guidi spent years on the creative teams of Barneys New York, Ralph Lauren and Steven Alan. His architectural bags, with bold shapes and colors and signature “E” motif, are also inspired by relatives: namely, the strong yet subtle work of his sister, the acclaimed artist Jennifer Guidi.
该品牌是约翰·吉迪(John Guidi)以一位家庭成员的名字命名的。在创立自己的新品牌之前，吉迪曾在纽约巴尼斯百货公司、拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)和史蒂文·艾伦(Steven Alan)的创意部门工作多年。他设计的手提包符合建筑学原理，具有大胆的形状和色彩以及标志性的E图标，灵感来自他的另一位亲人：来自他的姐姐、受到高度赞扬的艺术家詹妮弗·吉迪(Jennifer Guidi)震撼而微妙的作品。
Moynat
穆瓦纳(Moynat)
While the French leather goods company is by no means new — it has crafted travel accessories and made-to-measure trunks in Europe since 1849 — the house is just making its U.S. debut this year. Currently housed at Dover Street Market in New York, Moynat’s stateside launch collection includes a reshaped version of its iconic Réjane bag, as well as more contemporary styles like totes splashed with N.Y.C.-inspired graffiti art — “my homage to a city of grit, a city that celebrates its own impertinence and raw energy, and does so with style,” says Ramesh Nair, the brand’s artistic director.
这家法国皮制品公司绝不是新公司——它从1849年开始在欧洲精心制作旅行配件和定制旅行箱——但是它今年才在美国首次亮相。目前穆瓦纳在美国的店铺位于纽约丹佛街市场，它在美国的首发系列包括其标志性的雷雅娜(Réjane)手袋的改造版，以及更具当代感的手袋，比如以纽约涂鸦艺术为灵感的泼溅图案手袋——“我是在向这座勇敢的城市致敬，这座城市赞美自己的鲁莽和清新活力，而且赞美的方式很有格调，”该品牌的艺术总监拉梅什·奈尔(Ramesh Nair)说。
Creatures of Comfort 
舒适生物(Creatures of Comfort )
Jade Lai carries some of fashion’s coolest and most covetable bags at her boutique — J.W. Anderson, Lizzy Disney, Building Block — and now she’s got her own line of carryalls on the shelves. New for spring, the in-house bag collection is made from vegetable-tanned leather and includes totes, bucket bags and a standout cube-shaped option that’s understated, functional and polished all at once.
杰德·赖(Jade Lai)在自己的时装精品店销售时尚界最酷、最令人艳羡的手袋——J·W·安德逊(J.W. Anderson)、利齐·迪士尼(Lizzy Disney)、积木(Building Block)——现在她在货架上摆上了她自己设计的大手袋系列。这个小范围出售的手袋系列是今春的新品，是用植鞣皮料做成的，包括提包、水桶包和一个显眼的立方形手袋，它低调、实用而优雅。
Primecut
最佳剪裁(Primecut)
Locally sourced and one-of-a-kind, the cowhide clutches and wallets from Portland’s Primecut made their debut in December and are gaining traction among artisanally minded urbanites. They offer a subtle, functional way to dabble in the fur-and-fuzz-for-spring trend (as seen on the Fendi and Burberry runways). The line’s designer, Lizzie Falkenstein, says the bags reflect “the individuality of color and texture found in nature.”
波特兰“最佳剪裁”品牌的牛皮手拿包和钱包是在当地生产的，每款只生产一件。它们在去年12月首次亮相，越来越受到注重手工艺的都市人的青睐。它们以微妙、实用的方式追随春季毛绒绒的潮流（例如在芬迪[Fendi]和博柏利[Burberry]的秀台上看到的那些手袋）。这个系列的设计师莉齐·法尔肯施泰因(Lizzie Falkenstein)说这些手包反映了“在大自然中找到的色彩和质地的个性”。