WA KALU PU, Myanmar — Dragging giant tree trunks up and down the steep hillsides of sweltering jungles is a tough job. But there is something worse, say owners of Myanmar’s logging elephants: having no job at all.
缅甸瓦卡鲁普——闷热丛林中，在陡峭的山坡拖着巨大的树干上上下下是一项艰巨的工作。但缅甸伐木大象的所有者说，还有比这更糟糕的：那就是根本没有工作。
Shrinking forests and a law enacted three years ago that prohibits the export of raw timber have saddled Myanmar with an elephant unemployment crisis. Hundreds of elephants have been thrown out of work, and many are not handling it well.
森林的退化，以及三年前颁布的一项禁止原木出口的法律，让缅甸陷入大象失业危机。数百头大象失去了工作，而许多大象很难接受这个现实。
“They become angry a lot more easily,” U Chit Sein, 64, whose eight logging elephants now work only a few days a month. “There is no work, so they are getting fat. And all the males want to do is have sex all the time.”
“他们变得更易怒，”64岁的漆盛(U Chit Sein)说，他的八头伐木象现在每个月只能工作几天。“没有工作，它们越来越胖。公象整天只想交配。”
Elephants hold an almost mystical place in Myanmar, home to the world’s largest captive elephant population. For hundreds of years, they helped extract precious teak and hardwoods from jungles that even modern machinery still cannot penetrate.
在世界上圈养大象数量最多的缅甸，大象拥有近乎神秘的地位。数百年来，在连现代化机器都仍然无法涉足的丛林中，它们帮助从中运出珍贵的柚木和硬木。
Now the future of the 5,500 or so wrinkled pachyderms in captivity is a major preoccupation for the government officials who oversee them.
现在，大约5500头圈养厚皮动物的未来，成了负责监管它们的政府官员的头等大事。
“Unemployment is really hard to handle,” said U Saw Tha Pyae, whose six elephants have been jobless for the past two years. “There is no logging because there are no more trees.”
“失业真的太难受了，”苏德佩(U Saw Tha Pyae)说，他的六头大象在过去两年都没有工作。“不能伐木了，因为树已经不多了。”
Myanmar’s leading elephant expert, Daw Khyne U Mar, estimates that there are now 2,500 jobless elephants, many of them here in the jungles of eastern Myanmar, about two and a half hours from the Thai border. That number would put the elephant unemployment rate at around 40 percent, compared with about 4 percent for Myanmar’s people.
缅甸著名的大象专家凯吴玛(Daw Khyne U Mar)估计现在有2500头失业大象，其中很多在缅甸东部丛林，距离泰国边境大约两个半小时路程。这一数字意味着大象的失业率达到40%左右，而缅甸人的失业率约为4%。
“Most of these elephants don’t know what to do,” Ms. Khyne U Mar said. “The owners have a great burden. It’s expensive to keep them.”
“这些大象大部分不知道该做什么，”凯吴玛说。“大象主人负担很沉重。养大象花费高昂。”
Adult elephants, which each weigh about 10,000 pounds, eat 400 pounds of food a day and, other than circuses and logging, have limited job opportunities.
成年大象体重约一万磅，每天需要400磅食物，而除了马戏团和伐木外，工作机会有限。
Logging is arduous. But elephant experts say hard work is one reason Myanmar’s elephants have remained relatively healthy. A 2008 study calculated that Myanmar’s logging elephants, which have a strict regimen of work and play, live twice as long as elephants kept in European zoos, a median age of 42 years compared with 19 for zoo animals.
伐木非常辛苦。但大象专家说，繁重的工作是缅甸大象仍然相对健康的一个原因。2008年的一项研究表明，缅甸的伐木象有严格的工作和娱乐计划，其寿命是欧洲动物园中大象的两倍。相比于动物园动物19岁的年龄中值，这些大象的年龄中值为42岁。
Some logging elephants live much longer. “You see working elephants living into their 50s and 60s quite regularly,” said Joshua Plotnik, an elephant behavior specialist based in Thailand. “It all comes down to nutrition and proper care.”
一些伐木象可以活的更久。“你经常可以看到工作的大象可以活到50、60岁，”居住在泰国的大象行为专家约书亚·普拉尼克(Joshua Plotnik)说。“这一切都归结于营养和妥帖的照料。”
Elephants have been known to display a sense of purpose in their work, experts say, and the loss of a job can be demoralizing.
专家表示，目前已知的是大象在工作中会表现出满足感，而失业可能会让它们意志消沉。
“I don’t want to anthropomorphize,” said John Edward Roberts, the director of elephants and conservation activities at an elephant rescue center, the Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation in Thailand. “But if you take away that part of their life that has entertained them or stretched them mentally and physically — it’s difficult.”
“我不想将它们拟人化，”一家大象救援中心——泰国金三角亚洲象基金会(Golden Triangle Asian Elephant Foundation)——的大象和保护活动负责人约翰·爱德华·罗伯茨(John Edward Roberts)说。“但是，如果你把那些给它们的身体和精神带来娱乐和伸展的东西从生活中拿走了——那是很艰难的。”
For most people in Myanmar, things are looking up. The economy is growing rapidly and citizens are enjoying newfound freedoms after years of brutal dictatorship. But the dawn of democracy here has meant a reversal of fortune for elephants. In decades past, when Myanmar’s population suffered under dictatorship, life was arguably much less harsh for elephants.
对缅甸大多数人来说，事情正在好转。经济发展迅速，而在经过多年残酷的独裁统治后，民众正享受新获得的自由。但这里民主的曙光意味着大象命运的逆转。在过去几十年里，当缅甸人遭受独裁统治时，生活对大象而言无疑更轻松一些。
The military governments adhered to a strict labor code for elephants drawn up in British colonial times: eight-hour work days and five-day weeks, retirement at 55, mandatory maternity leave, summer vacations and good medical care. There are still elephant maternity camps and retirement communities run by the government. In a country where the most basic social protections were absent during the years of dictatorship, elephant labor laws were largely respected, partly because an overworked elephant is a very dangerous animal, say those who handle them.
军政府坚持英国殖民时期制定的严格大象劳动法：每周工作5天，每天8小时，55岁时退休，法定产假、暑假和良好的医疗服务。目前仍有由政府经营的大象生育营地和退休社区。在一个多年独裁统治时期缺乏最基本社会保护的国家，大象劳动法很大程度上得到尊重，负责照顾它们的人说，部分原因是劳累过度的大象是一种非常危险的动物。
Each logging elephant has its own record book, with medical and work history managed by Myanma Timber Enterprise, a government company often referred to by its initials.
每头伐木象都有自己的记录本，上有缅甸木业公司(Myanma Timber Enterprise)管理的医疗和工作记录。这是一家政府公司，人们往往以其首字母缩写MTE来称呼它。
“The M.T.E. elephants that I’ve seen are really healthy compared with elephants I’ve seen in other countries,” said Dr. Susan Mikota, the director of veterinary programs and research at Elephant Care International, a charity based in the United States and devoted to elephant welfare. “They are on a natural diet, they are allowed to forage. They have good muscular skeletal body condition. They get good exercise.”
“与我在其他国家看到的大象相比，MTE的大象真的很健康，”苏珊·米科塔(Susan Mikota)博士说，她是国际大象护理协会(Elephant Care International)兽医计划与研究负责人，这是一家总部设在美国并致力于大象福利的慈善机构。“它们食用天然饲料，它们可以自行搜寻草料。它们有健康的肌肉骨骼身体状况。它们得到很好的锻炼。”
Georgia Mason, a co-author of the 2008 study, said that obesity seemed to be a major factor in the lower life expectancy of zoo elephants. A subsequent study showed that elephant babies born in zoos were 15 percent heavier than those born in logging camps, she said.
2008年研究报告的合著者乔治亚·梅森(Georgia Mason)说，肥胖似乎是动物园大象寿命降低的主要因素。她说随后的研究发现，出生在动物园的幼象比那些出生在伐木营地的重15%。
With the number of jobless elephants likely to increase as forests shrink and the logging industry wanes, the government is exploring the possibility of releasing some of the elephants into the wild.
随着森林退化和伐木业衰退，失业大象的数量也可能会增长，而政府正在探索将一些大象放归山林的可能性。
Simon Hedges, the elephant coordinator at the Wildlife Conservation Society, an animal protection organization based in the United States, said this was an “exciting opportunity.” But he and others cautioned that concerns needed to be addressed about captive elephants spreading diseases to wild populations and raiding villages for food.
总部设在美国的动物保护组织野生动物保护协会(Wildlife Conservation Society)的大象协调员西蒙·赫奇斯(Simon Hedges)表示，这是一个“令人兴奋的机会。”但他和其他人告诫说，还需要解决圈养大象传播疾病给野生种群和袭击村庄掠夺食物等问题。
“Some of the more radical organizations believe that you can let all of the captive elephants go in the wild — that’s easier said than done,” said Mr. Hedges, who last year in Myanmar took part in a meeting, hosted by the Burmese government, on the future of elephants. “Elephants are big, dangerous, scary animals. It’s hard to keep them away from crops.”
“一些更为激进的组织认为可以将所有的圈养大象放归野外，但说得容易做起来难，”赫奇斯说，他去年在缅甸参加了由缅甸政府主办的关于大象未来的会议。“大象体型巨大，是一种危险、可怕的动物。很难让它们远离农作物。”
Elephant owners regularly release their animals into the jungles to forage and are often forced to indemnify villagers when crops are devoured.
大象所有者会定期将自己的大象放入丛林觅食，而且常常被迫因它们毁坏庄稼而赔偿村民。
“There is not much space left in the jungles for them,” said Mr. Chit Sein, the elephant owner.
“丛林里已经没有太多空间供它们生活了，”大象所有者漆盛(Chit Sein)说。
Forest cover in Myanmar has decreased by 42 percent since 1990, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
根据联合国粮食及农业组织(Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations)，自1990年以来缅甸森林覆盖面积已下降了42%。
As they await a solution, elephant owners are coping with joblessness in various ways.
在他们等待解决方案时，大象所有者正以各种方式应对失业的状况。
Some have sold their charges to businessmen in Thailand, where they will be deployed in the Thai tourism industry, including in elephant shows and jungle treks. Exporting elephants to Thailand is technically illegal without official permission but elephant owners say it appears to be happening with greater frequency.
有些人将他们的大象卖给了泰国商人，在那里这些大象将进入泰国的旅游业，被用在大象表演和丛林穿越等活动中。严格来说，未经官方许可而出口大象到泰国的做法是非法的，但大象所有者说这种情况越来越频繁。
But other owners say they cannot bear the thought of selling their elephants.
但其他所有者说，他们不能忍受出售大象的想法。