THIS Labor Day weekend, odds are you’ll peek at your work email on your “day off” — and then feel guilty about it.
今年劳动节(Labor Day)那个周末，你可能会在“假日”瞥一眼自己的工作邮箱，然后又对此感到内疚。
You might envy the serene workers at Daimler, the German automaker. On vacations, employees can set their corporate email to “holiday mode.” Anyone who emails them gets an auto-reply saying the employee isn’t in, and offering contact details for an alternate, on-call staff person. Then poof, the incoming email is deleted — so that employees don’t have to return to inboxes engorged with digital missives in their absence. “The idea behind it is to give people a break and let them rest,” a Daimler spokesman told Time magazine. “Then they can come back to work with a fresh spirit.”
你或许会嫉妒德国汽车制造商戴姆勒(Daimler)那些平静的员工。假期里，他们能将公司的邮件设为“假期模式”。给他们发邮件的所有人都会收到一封自动回复的邮件，告诉发件人这名雇员没有上班，并给出当值的其他人员的具体联系方式。然后“嗖”的一声，这封邮件就被删除了，这样雇员在回来工作时，便不会看到收件箱里塞满了自己不在时收到的数字信函。“这么做背后的目的是让人们歇一歇，休息一下，”戴姆勒的发言人告诉《时代》周刊(Time magazine)。“然后，他们就能以全新的状态回来工作。”
Limiting workplace email seems radical, but it’s a trend in Germany, where Volkswagen and Deutsche Telekom have adopted policies that limit work-related email to some employees on evenings and weekends. If this can happen in precision-mad, high-productivity Germany, could it happen in the United States? Absolutely. It not only could, but it should.
限制工作场所的邮件似乎有些激进，但在德国，这是一种趋势，大众汽车(Volkswagen)和德国电信(Deutsche Telekom)均已采取政策，限制在傍晚和周末给部分员工发和工作有关的邮件。如果这种做法能出现在着迷于精准度、生产效率颇高的德国，那它可能出现在美国吗？当然。不仅是可能，而且是应该。
White-collar cubicle dwellers complain about email for good reason. They spend 28 percent of their workweek slogging through the stuff, according to the McKinsey Global Institute. They check their messages 74 times a day, on average, according to Gloria Mark, an authority on workplace behavior and a professor at the University of California, Irvine.
坐在格子间里的白领有充分的理由抱怨电子邮件。麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)的数据显示，在一周的工作时间中，白领员工要用28%的时间处理邮件。研究工作场所行为的专家 、加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)教授格洛丽亚·马克(Gloria Mark)称，白领平均一天查看74次邮件。
And lots of that checking happens at home. Jennifer Deal, a senior research scientist at the Center for Creative Leadership, surveyed smartphone-using white-collar workers and found that most were umbilically tied to email a stunning 13.5 hours a day, well into the evening. Workers don’t even take a break during dinner — where, other research shows, fully 38 percent check work email “routinely,” peeking at the phone under the table. Half check it in bed in the morning. What agonizes workers is the expectation that they’ll reply instantly to a colleague or boss, no matter how ungodly the hour. Hence the endless, neurotic checking, and the dread of getting in trouble for ignoring something.
而且很多查看邮件的行为发生在家里。创意领导中心(Center for Creative Leadership)高级研究员珍妮弗·迪尔(Jennifer Deal)对使用智能手机的白领员工进行了调查，发现大部分人一天中和邮件紧紧联系在一起的时间高达13.5小时，一直持续到晚间。就连用餐时，他们也不会中断。其他一些研究发现，整整38%的人会“习惯性地”查看工作邮件，在饭桌下偷看手机。一半人会在早上起床之前查看邮件。让员工犯愁的是，不管时间多么不合适，同事或老板都希望他们立即回复邮件。于是，他们便会无止尽地、神经兮兮地查看邮件，唯恐因为忽略了什么而陷入麻烦。
So as a matter of sheer human decency and workplace fairness, reducing the chokehold of after-hours email is a laudable goal.
因此，单单是出于对人类尊严和工作场所的公平的考虑，减少正常工作时间外的邮件带来的压力也是一个值得称赞的目标。
But it also appears that, from a corporate standpoint, the sky won’t fall. The few North American firms that have emulated Daimler all say it is surprisingly manageable.
而且从企业的角度来看，这么做似乎天也不会塌。北美少数几家效仿戴姆勒的公司均表示，这种做法出人意料地容易操作。
At the Toronto office of Edelman, the global public relations firm, managers created the “7-to-7” rule. Employees are strongly discouraged from emailing one another before 7 a.m. and after 7 p.m. Sure, they can check email if they want — but they’re not to send it to colleagues. It’s an acknowledgment that the only way to really reduce email is to persuade colleagues not to reflexively write every time they have the tiniest question.
在国际公关公司爱德曼(Edelman)驻多伦多的办公室，管理者制定了“7到7”规则。公司强烈建议员工不要在早上7点之前，以及晚上7点之后给彼此发邮件。当然，如果愿意，他们可以查看邮件，但不要给同事发邮件。人们认识到，能真正减少邮件的唯一办法，是说服同事不要每次遇到很小的问题时，便条件反射式地写邮件。
Those who do are scolded. “You have to stick to it,” Lisa Kimmel, the general manager of the office, told me. “When we tell prospective employees about it, their eyes light up.”
这么做的人会被训斥。“你必须坚持这个规则，”该办公室的总经理丽萨·希梅尔(Lisa Kimmel)告诉我。“当我们和潜在员工说起这一点时，他们的眼睛都亮了。”
Even start-ups are experimenting with email limits. Book Riot, a website for book lovers, has eight full-time employees who mostly work remotely, in different time zones, on often hectic schedules. They all agree: Email someone whenever you want, but don’t expect a reply until the recipient is back in the office.
就连创业公司也在尝试限制邮件。面向书迷的网站Book Riot有八名全职员工。他们分布在不同时区，基本上都是远程办公，日程通常都很繁忙。他们约定：随时可以给某个人发邮件，但不要指望收件人在上班之前回复邮件。
“It’s understood that if someone has a crazy idea at 3 a.m. and sends it, that’s their problem that it’s 3 a.m. — you respond when you want,” Rebecca Schinsky, the site’s director of content, told me. At the Boston Consulting Group, when a team of stressed-out consultants began organizing “predictable time off” — no-messaging zones during their off time — their total work hours dropped by 11 percent, yet the same amount of work was accomplished.
“对此的理解是，如果有人在凌晨3点想到了一个疯狂的点子，并就此了发了一封邮件，那时是凌晨3点这个问题是他们的。你想回复的时候再回复，”该网站的内容总监丽贝卡·申斯基(Rebecca Schinsky)告诉我。在波士顿咨询公司(Boston Consulting Group)，当一群不堪重负的顾问开始规划“预计休息时间”，即休息期间不处理邮件的时间段时，他们的总工作时间减少了11%，但却完成了同样的工作量。
Why would less email mean better productivity? Because, as Ms. Deal found in her research, endless email is an enabler. It often masks terrible management practices.
为什么更少的邮件意味着更高的生产效率？这是因为，正如迪尔的研究结果所说的，没完没了的邮件会使人养成坏习惯。在它背后，往往隐藏着糟糕的管理。
When employees shoot out a fusillade of miniature questions via email, or “cc” every team member about each niggling little decision, it’s because they don’t feel confident to make a decision on their own. Often, Ms. Deal found, they’re worried about getting in trouble or downsized if they mess up.
当员工们通过电子邮件发出大量微不足道的问题，或者把每个无关紧要的小决定都抄送给每位团队成员时，是因为他们没有单独做决定的自信。迪尔认为，这些人往往担心自己把工作搞砸后，会陷入麻烦或者被解聘。
In contrast, when employees are actually empowered, they make more judgment calls on their own. They also start using phone calls and face-to-face chats to resolve issues quickly, so they don’t metastasize into email threads the length of “War and Peace.”
相反，如果员工真正得到授权，他们就能运用自己的判断，做出更多决定。他们还会开始用电话和面对面的交谈来快速解决问题，而沟通也就不会恶化成为像《战争与和平》(War and Peace)那么长的电邮串。
This is basic behavioral economics. When email is seen as an infinite resource, people abuse it. If a corporation constrains its use, each message becomes more valuable — and employees become more mindful of how and when they write.
这是基本的行为经济学。当电子邮件被视作一种无穷无尽的资源，人们就会滥用它。如果企业限制它的使用，那么每条信息就会变得更有价值——员工就会更加在意他们书写邮件的方式及时间。
Granted, not all late-night email is bad. As Ms. Deal found, employees don’t like being forced to reply at 1 a.m., but they appreciate the flexibility of being able to shift some work to the evening if they choose. And they don’t mind dealing with genuine work crises that crop up during leisure hours. At Edelman in Toronto, employees try not to bug each other in the evenings — but if a client emails with a time-sensitive issue, they’ll respond.
不过，并非所有深夜发来的电子邮件都不好。迪尔发现，员工不喜欢被迫在凌晨1点回复邮件，但他们喜欢那种能根据自己的意愿把一些工作转移到夜间来完成的灵活性。此外，他们也不介意对一些在闲暇时间突然出现的真正的工作危机进行处理。在多伦多的爱德曼公司，员工们通常会尽力不去在夜间骚扰彼此——但是如果客户发送的电子邮件颇为紧急，他们还是会作出回复。