The actor Michael B. Jordan, flash in a gray-and-black Calvin Klein tuxedo and Christian Louboutin loafers, stood posing on the red carpet at the Gotham Independent Film Awards and felt one thing: “Growth,” he said. “One of those weird steppingstones that you’ve got to go through as an actor.”
在卡文克莱(Calvin Klein)灰黑色无尾礼服和克里斯提·鲁布托(Christian Louboutin)低跟便鞋的衬托下，亮相哥谭独立电影奖(Gotham Independent Film Awards)红毯的演员迈克尔·B·乔丹(Michael B. Jordan)光彩照人。在红毯上摆着各种姿势供人拍照的他感受到了一点：“成长，”他说，“作为演员，必须要经历的一种奇怪历程。”
“I remember getting whisked by these carpets,” he explained at the awards on Monday night, recalling earlier moments in the limelight when a photographer might snap one shot and move on. “ ‘Nobody else is taking pictures?’ O.K., cool.”
“我还记得自己被催促着在这些红毯上匆匆走过的时候，”他在周一晚上的颁奖典礼上解释说。他回忆起早年间自己身处聚光灯下，摄影师可能只拍了一个镜头便等着下一位出场的时刻。“‘没其他人拍照了吗？’好吧，没关系。”
Mr. Jordan, familiar to fans of “Friday Night Lights” and “The Wire,” made the leap this year to big-screen leading man, as the star of the indie drama “Fruitvale Station.” Based on the life of Oscar Grant III, an unarmed 22-year-old who was shot and killed by a transit officer in Oakland, Calif., in 2009, it was a festival darling, earning grand jury and audience awards at Sundance and a prize for best first film at Cannes.
《胜利之光》(Friday Night Lights)和《火线》(The Wire)的粉丝对乔丹很熟悉。今年，乔丹一跃成为大银幕的男主角，担纲独立影片《弗鲁特维尔车站》(Fruitvale Station)的主演。影片改编自23岁的奥斯卡·格兰特三世(Oscar Grant III)的真实生活。2009年，手无寸铁的格兰特在加州奥克兰被一名交通警察枪杀。该片受到了各大电影节的青睐，在圣丹斯电影节上赢得了评审团奖和观众最喜爱奖，在戛纳电影节上斩获最佳处女作奖。
This week, Mr. Jordan and the film’s director, Ryan Coogler, just two years out of film school, picked up a few more prizes, at the Gothams and from the New York Film Critics Circle and National Board of Review. With the Weinstein Company promoting and distributing the film, they are most likely on the path to the Academy Awards, to be handed out March 2.
本周，乔丹和从电影学院毕业仅两年的导演瑞恩·库格勒(Ryan Coogler)又从哥谭独立电影奖、纽约影评人协会(New York Film Critics Circle)和国家评论协会(National Board of Review)收获了几个奖项。负责电影宣传和发行的是韦恩斯坦影业公司(Weinstein Company)。奥斯卡奖将于明年3月2日颁发，届时，乔丹和库格勒也极有可能有所斩获。
“Fruitvale Station” is just one of an unusually large field of candidates this year, spanning conventional highbrow studio fare, up-from-the-bootstraps indies, star-driven blockbusters, historical epics, romances and more. There are nearly two dozen movies vying for a shot at a best picture Oscar, each with a legitimate chance at it. Completists may rejoice, or despair: Many of this year’s movies are dark, tension-filled odysseys.
今年，参选影片异乎寻常得多，《弗鲁特维尔车站》只是其中之一，其他影片涵盖了来自传统电影公司的高雅作品、自力更生的独立电影、明星云集的大片、场面宏大的历史剧，以及言情剧等等。光是角逐奥斯卡最佳影片奖的就有二十多部影片，每部影片都有理由胜出。完美主义者可能会欣喜不已，也可能会绝望沮丧：今年的许多影片都是阴郁且紧张冲突不断的剧情片。
Ready? Deep breath. The front-runner may be “12 Years a Slave,” Steve McQueen’s searing drama, based on a historical account of the antebellum South. “Gravity,” Alfonso Cuarón’s taut space thriller, is already a $615 million blockbuster and redefined the visual art of cinema. Then there are two late but much talked about entries to the race: Martin Scorsese’s “Wolf of Wall Street,” his longest movie ever, about financial shenanigans in the 1980s and ’90s, and David O. Russell’s deliciously ’70s “American Hustle,” which reunites him with the Oscar-winning stars of “Silver Linings Playbook” and “The Fighter.” Set in the near future, Spike Jonze’s “Her,” about a man who falls in love with his computer operating system, received best picture and director honors from the National Board of Review on Wednesday, and has had such a rapturous reception that there is trophy talk for Scarlett Johansson, whose entire performance is voice only.
准备好了吗？深呼吸一下。领跑的可能是史蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)的炙热影片《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)，该片根据南北战争前有关南方的历史记载改编而成。由阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)执导的《地心引力》(Gravity)是一部空间题材的惊悚大片，已经收获了6.15亿美元（约合37亿元人民币）的票房，重新定义了电影的视觉艺术。紧随其后的是两部后来才加入角逐的热点影片：马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)有史以来最长的电影《华尔街之狼》(Wolf of Wall Street)和大卫·O·拉塞尔(David O. Russell)的《美国骗局》(American Hustle)。前者讲述的是上世纪八、九十年代的金融诈骗故事，后者则饶有趣味地再现了上世纪七十年代的金融欺诈案。如果《美国骗局》获奖，这也将是拉塞尔继《乌云背后的幸福线》(Silver Linings Playbook)和《斗士》(The Fighter)之后执导的第三部奥斯卡获奖影片，他在这部影片中再次与前两部影片的获奖明星进行合作。将于近期上映的《她》(Her)由斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)执导，讲述的是一名男子爱上了自己的电脑操作系统的故事。该片周三获得了国家评论协会颁发的最佳影片和最佳导演大奖。影片获得的反响如此之大，以至于有人认为，仅为影片配音的斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)也有望获奖。
The Weinstein Company, an Oscar expert, will also be touting “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” a portrait of the civil rights movement through one man’s eyes, and “August: Osage County,” the adaptation of Tracy Letts’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play, with Meryl Streep and Julia Roberts as a warring Southern mother and daughter worthy of Flannery O’Connor. (The company is cannily rereleasing “The Butler” in theaters on Friday.) Also circulating in the best picture pool are austere dramas like “All Is Lost,” starring Robert Redford in one of the most noteworthy, and silent, performances of his career, and “Captain Phillips,” with an at-sea Tom Hanks facing Somali pirates. “Nebraska,” from Oscar winner Alexander Payne, a black-and-white look at an elderly man’s last wish, won Bruce Dern a best actor award at Cannes. “Inside Llewyn Davis,” about a struggling musician in the 1960s folk scene in New York, earned the Coen brothers the Grand Prix there. “Out of the Furnace,” with an Oscar-ready cast in Christian Bale, Casey Affleck and Woody Harrelson, and “Lone Survivor,” based on the true story of a Navy SEAL unit in Afghanistan, tackle endurance and American manhood. So does “Prisoners,” a missing-child detective story with Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal and Melissa Leo.
作为奥斯卡专业户，韦恩斯坦影业公司还推出了《白宫管家》(Lee Daniels’ The Butler)，一幅通过个人视角展现的民权运动图卷，以及《八月：奥色治郡》(August: Osage County)，改编自翠西·莱茨(Tracy Letts)的普利策奖获奖剧本，由梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)和茱莉亚·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)饰演一对互不相让的南方母女，二人颇有弗兰纳里·奥康纳(Flannery O’Connor)笔下人物的神韵。（公司很高明地在周五将《白宫管家》重新送入院线。）其他的最佳影片热门还有《一切尽失》(All Is Lost)这样克制朴素的故事片，罗伯特·雷德福德(Robert Redford)在其中做出了职业生涯最引人注目也最沉默的一次表演，《怒海劫》(Captain Phillips)讲的是汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)在海上遭遇索马里海盗的故事。来自奥斯卡获奖者亚历山大·佩恩(Alexander Payne)的《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)，用黑白画面讲述一位老人的最后愿望，已经为布鲁斯·邓恩(Bruce Dern)在戛纳拿到了一座最佳演员奖。《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)说的是20世纪60年代纽约民谣潮背景下的一位处境艰难的音乐家，已经为科恩兄弟拿到了一座戛纳评审团大奖。《逃出熔炉》(Out of the Furnace)的演出阵容——克里斯蒂安·贝尔(Christian Bale)、卡西·阿弗莱克(Casey Affleck)、伍迪·哈里尔森(Woody Harrelson)——已经是奥斯卡级别，影片以在阿富汗执行任务的一个海豹突击队小组的真实故事为基础，对忍耐和美国男子汉气质加以探究。同样有类似主题的《囚徒》(Prisoners)由休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)、杰克·吉林哈尔(Jake Gyllenhaal)和梅丽莎·里奥(Melissa Leo)主演，是一个关于失踪儿童的探案剧。
“Philomena,” starring Judi Dench, and Woody Allen’s “Blue Jasmine,” with Cate Blanchett in a star turn, present women with deep secrets. “Before Midnight,” the third part in the Richard Linklater-Ethan Hawke-Julie Delpy series, showcases a couple with few secrets but a wealth of on-screen history.
茱迪·邓奇(Judi Dench)的《菲洛梅娜》(Philomena)和伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)的《蓝色茉莉》(Blue Jasmine)都是关于怀揣着秘密的女性的故事，后者由凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)主演。《午夜之前》(Before Midnight)是理查德·林克莱特(Richard Linklater)、伊森·霍克(Ethan Hawke)、朱莉·黛尔比(Julie Delpy)三人合作系列的第三篇，展现了一对没什么秘密可言但有着丰富银幕历史的夫妇的故事。
In this distinctly bleak year, movies like “Dallas Buyers Club,” about AIDS patients, and “Rush,” about dangerous auto racing, pass for feel-good offerings. Lighter fare includes “Saving Mr. Banks,” about the development of “Mary Poppins,” with Mr. Hanks as a mustachioed Walt Disney and Emma Thompson as the biting Australian-born creator of the memorable nanny. “The Secret Life of Walter Mitty,” Ben Stiller’s adaptation of the James Thurber short story, could prove an audience pleaser this winter.
在这个气氛格外惨淡的一年里，类似艾滋病人题材的《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)和关于危险的赛车运动的《极速风流》(Rush)这样的电影已经可以归入慰藉片之列。略清淡一些的选择包括《大梦想家》(Saving Mr. Banks)，讲的是动画片《欢乐满人间》(Mary Poppins)的创作过程，由汤姆·汉克斯出演留着小胡子的瓦尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)，而令人难忘的老奶奶形象的创作人、言语刻薄的澳大利亚作家则由爱玛·汤普森(Emma Thompson)出演。由本·斯蒂勒(Ben Stiller)改编自詹姆斯·瑟伯(James Thurber)短篇小说的《白日梦想家》(The Secret Life of Walter Mitty)也许会是今冬观众格外喜爱的一部影片。
The Academy allows five to 10 best pictures nominees, although for mathematical reasons related to the way the preferential ballot is counted, it’s unlikely that voters will actually anoint the maximum.
学院规定的最佳影片提名在5到10部之间，但鉴于优先票所使用的计票方式，从数学上讲投票者其实不大可能把这个名额用满。
“It’s all a bit mad,” said Ralph Fiennes, a past nominee for “The English Patient” and “Schindler’s List” and the director and star of this year’s “Invisible Woman.”
“这一切都有点疯狂，”拉尔夫·费因斯(Ralph Fiennes)说，他曾因《英国病人》和《辛德勒的名单》获得奥斯卡提名，今年自导自演了《看不见的女人》(Invisible Woman)。
“When you take a job on, you do it because it’s a great part, great director, great script,” he said. “It’s work that you hope will be fulfilling for yourself, but also it’s the connection with other people that you make.” And then the awards shuffle happens. “You don’t go into for that reason,” he said, but “there’s a little bit of you that goes, ‘Oh, might it be me?’ Your ego gets frauded in ways that aren’t always maybe very healthy.”
“当你接受一份工作的时候，你是因为那是个好角色、好导演、好剧本，”他说。“那是一份你希望能发挥自己才能的工作，同时也是在和其他人建立联系。”然后评奖把事情打乱了。“你不是冲着那些东西来的，”他说，但是“你心里会有点嘀咕，‘呃，会不会是我？’你的自我被蒙骗了，而这种情况往往不见得是非常有益健康的。”
Notoriously dedicated performers like Mr. Bale, who won an Oscar for “The Fighter” and is now on deck in “Out of the Furnace” and “American Hustle,” take a gimlet-eyed view of the whole thing. “I’m human,” he said. “I love it when other human beings give me a pat on the back and say they appreciate my work. That being said, look, it’s kind of a funny thing to think that there could be an absolute best actor. It’s not like this is a 100-meter-dash where you cross a line first. It’s all opinion, you know?”
以全身心投入表演而著称的克里斯蒂安·贝尔凭借《斗士》(The Fighter)已经得到一座奥斯卡，如今携着《逃出熔炉》和《美国骗局》而来，他对这一切有着犀利的认识。“我是人，”他说。“我喜欢有人拍着我的肩膀说欣赏我的作品。话是这么说，你看，如果要称某个人是绝对的最佳演员，那是挺好笑的。这又不是百米赛跑，谁第一个撞线谁赢。这一切都是个人观点，对吧？”