For years, independent bookstores have taken creative steps to fight off challenges from Amazon and the superstores by building in-house espresso bars, hosting members-only lunches with authors and selling birthday cards, toys and trinkets.
多年来，独立书店采取各种创新举措应对亚马逊(Amazon)及大型连锁书店带来的挑战，它们在书店内建造意式咖啡吧，举办仅限会员参加的与作家共进午餐的活动，销售生日卡片、玩具和小玩意儿。
In 2013, it has come to this: Asking their customers for donations.
2013年，出现了一种新动向：向书店的顾客募捐。
Crowdfunding is sweeping through the bookstore business, the latest tactic for survival in a market that is dominated by Amazon, with its rock-bottom prices, and Barnes & Noble, with its dizzying in-store selection. It’s hardly a sustainable business model; but it buys some time, and gives customers a feeling of helping a favorite cause and even preserving a civic treasure.
“大众筹资”(crowdfunding)正席卷整个书店行业，这是为了在亚马逊及巴诺书店(Barnes & Noble)主导的市场中得以生存的最新策略。亚马逊的售价低到谷底，而巴诺书店的品种之多令人眼花缭乱。大众筹资算不上是一种可持续的商业模式，但它赢得了些许时间，给顾客一种帮助发展自己喜爱的事业，甚至是保护市镇财富的感觉。
In San Francisco, a campaign for Adobe Books successfully raised $60,000 on Indiegogo.com in March after the store faced a rent increase and nearly went out of business.
旧金山的阿多比书店(Adobe Books)面临租金上涨的问题，几乎关门停业。因此，书店于今年3月通过Indiegogo.com网站发起捐款活动，并成功筹得6万美元（约合36.7万元人民币）。
In Asheville, N.C., the Spellbound Children’s Bookshop collected more than $5,000 when it appealed to customers for help moving to a new location.
当北卡罗来纳州阿什维尔的入迷儿童书店(Spellbound Children’s Bookshop)呼吁顾客帮助他们搬到一个新店面时，他们募集到了超过5000美元的资金。
In the Flatiron district of Manhattan, Books of Wonder raised more than $50,000 in an online campaign last fall after the recession and other losses depleted its financial resources.
曼哈顿熨斗区的奇幻书店(Books of Wonder)遭受了经济衰退的打击，各种其他损失也耗尽资金来源。去年秋天，它通过网络活动筹得超过5万美元的资金。
Web sites like Indiegogo and Kickstarter, originally made for the public financing of creative projects, have simplified the logistics of raising money, and bookstores facing financial distress are seizing the opportunity. They can set up a Web page explaining what their fund-raising goal is, why they are asking for it and what the deadline is. Donors pitch in as little as $5 or $10 with a few clicks and a credit card number. Peter Glassman, who owns Books of Wonder, said he turned to a fund-raising campaign only as a last resort.
Indiegogo及Kickstarter等网站的创建初衷是为一些创新项目进行面向公众的筹资活动。它们已经简化了筹资的操作流程，面临财务危机的书店抓住了这个机会。它们可以创建一个网页，说明筹款目标、原因及期限。捐赠者点击几下鼠标，输入自己的信用卡号码，捐赠5美元或10美元都可以。奇幻书店的老板彼得·格拉斯曼(Peter Glassman)表示，筹款活动是他的最后一搏。
“I thought, given the financial strains we’re under at the moment, perhaps this is the way to prevent us from getting into a really desperate situation,” Mr. Glassman said.
格拉斯曼说，“我想，鉴于我们当时面临的资金紧张状况，这也许是不让我们真的陷入绝境的唯一办法。”
He said it was the first time in 30 years that he was willing to admit that the store needed help.
他表示，这是他30年来首次愿意承认，书店需要帮助。
“You never tell people your problems,” he said. “The worst you say is, ‘Business is a little tight.’ ”
“你从来不会向别人说起自己的困难，”他说，“最严重的说法不过是，‘生意上遇到点麻烦。’”
But that kind of tough-it-out attitude seems to have gone the way of the Book-of-the-Month Club. The independent bookstores that remain have taken a hard-nosed approach to their business, more willing to experiment with new technologies and to tap the carefully cultivated loyalty of their customers.
这种坚持到底的态度似乎与“每月读书会”(Book of the Month Club)有相似之处。存活下来的独立书店对它们的业务采取了务实的策略，更愿意尝试新技术，并利用精心培养的客户忠诚度。
Josh Mills, the longtime manager of The Bookstore in Chico, Calif., made a public appeal for $35,000 on Indiegogo when the owner decided to close the store and Mr. Mills stepped up to buy it.
当加利福尼亚州奇科的“这家书店”(The Bookstore)老板决定停业的时候，长期担任书店经理的乔希·米尔斯(Josh Mills)站出来准备买下它，并在Indiegogo网站上公开号召为书店捐赠3.5万美元。
In less than two months, he had collected $36,068, mostly in chunks of $15 and $25 from locals who were outraged at the thought of the bookstore shutting down. Donations seemed to come from everywhere: Mr. Mills received $25 from one former customer in Hawaii who heard about the store’s plight via e-mail from a friend in France. Acquaintances threw local fund-raisers, serving wine, crostini and deviled eggs, and then funneled the money into the online campaign.
在不到两个月的时间里，米尔斯筹集了36068美元，其中大部分是当地人捐赠的一笔笔15美元或25美元，因为他们一想到书店要关门就感到非常愤怒。捐款似乎来自各个地方：米尔斯收到的一笔25美元由身在夏威夷的老顾客捐赠，此人通过一个在法国的朋友寄来的电子邮件得知了书店的困境。一些熟人举办了地方性的筹款活动，供应葡萄酒、意式脆饼及魔鬼蛋，然后再把得来的款项打给这一网络活动。
“I felt strange about asking for money that way — baring my soul and sharing my personal business is not what I do,” said Mr. Mills, who now owns the store. “Bookstores are sort of an endangered industry for lots of reasons. But it would have left a huge hole in our little community if we had gone away.”
米尔斯说，“以这种方式筹钱我觉得很不习惯，将内心展示给众人，分享私事，我通常不会这么做。”他如今成为了这家书店的老板。“出于多种原因，书店已经成了一种濒危的行业。但如果我们消失了，会给我们小小的社区留下一个巨大的空白。”
Independents have seen their business suffer in recent years for all of the usual reasons. Many customers have shifted their purchases from print books to e-books. Amazon’s market share keeps growing, making it the biggest seller of books in the country. And the price of rent has gone up in city centers.
近年来，由于人们熟知的各种原因，独立书店的经营遭受了重大打击。许多客户已经弃纸版书而改买电子书。亚马逊的市场份额不断增长，已经成长为美国最大的书商。同时，租用市中心地区店面的费用也有所上涨。
But owners of independent bookstores also reason that if they cannot compete with Amazon on price, they will attract customers by having a more carefully chosen selection. If Barnes & Noble has uninformed salesclerks, theirs will have the fluency of a Ph.D. candidate in literature.
但一些独立书店的所有者也提出，尽管无法在价格上与亚马逊竞争，他们可以通过更加精心选择的书目来吸引顾客。如果说巴诺书店有身穿统一制服的店员，那么他们的店员就具有文学博士生的知识水准。
And if their customers have a fierce attachment to their local neighborhood bookstore, as many claim to do, then bookstore owners reason that they should test that loyalty by making a direct appeal for donations.
如果顾客对他们当地的社区书店有着强烈的感情（许多人的确如此声称），那么书店的所有者就提出，他们应该通过直接呼吁捐款来检验这种忠诚度。
“I think it’s an indication of the emotional connection that many customers have with their bookstores,” said Daniel Goldin, the owner of the Boswell Book Company in Milwaukee. “Every customer who buys a book at an independent could do it in a different way, a cheaper way. A lot of customers position us in their head like the nonprofits they support, like a humane society or a park.”
“我想，这显示了许多顾客与书店之间的情感联系，”位于密尔沃基的博斯韦尔图书公司(Boswell Book Company)的老板丹尼尔·戈尔丁(Daniel Goldin)说。“每一位在独立书店买书的顾客都可以选择别的方式来购书，更便宜的方式。许多顾客在他们的脑子里将我们等同于他们所支持的非营利事业，就像是人道主义社团或者是公园一样。”
The American Booksellers Association, a trade group, says the number of bookstores it represents has grown slightly in the last several years, despite an overall drop in the last decade — they currently have 1,632 members, down from about 2,400 members in 2002.
行业组织美国书商协会(American Booksellers Association)表示，尽管过去10年它所代表的书店数量总体下降了，但这几年却略有增长。2002年，协会共有约2400名成员，如今降至1632名。
“Amazon obviously continues to grow,” said Oren Teicher, the chief executive of the association. “It’s not like we’re without challenges.”
“亚马逊显然在持续增长，”协会总干事奥伦·泰歇(Oren Teicher)说，“并不是说我们可以安枕无忧。”
Seeking financial support from customers, he said, is an example “of how a combination of technology and localism is helping stores get funded that 20 years ago would have been impossible to do.”
他还称，寻求顾客给予经济支持说明了，“科技和地方观念相结合能帮助书店得到资金援助，这在20年前是不可能做到的。”
Many independent bookstores said that despite the challenges to their business, they were doing just fine. Some of them are crowdfunding not as a means of survival, but as a way to expand.
许多独立书店表示，尽管面临种种挑战，它们的经营状况还不错。其中一些之所以进行大众募资，并不是因为生意难以为继，而是为了拓展业务。
BookCourt, a neighborhood fixture in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, is one of the stores that has been thriving despite competition from Amazon and Barnes & Noble. (A two-story Barnes & Noble is just three blocks away.) It recently started an ambitious online campaign to help pay for the purchase of a new bookstore space in the Catskills that will open next spring.
布鲁克林科布尔山的社区书店书苑(BookCourt)就是一家业务蒸蒸日上的书店，尽管它也面临来自亚马逊和巴诺书店的竞争。（一间两层楼的巴诺书店距书苑仅三个街区。）近来，它发动了一项宏大的在线活动，募集资金以帮助它在卡茨基尔购买一间新店铺，并在明年春天开始营业。
Zack Zook, the events and development director for the store, said he was inspired by other online fund-raising campaigns for short films and art projects that he had occasionally participated in for the last several years.
书苑负责活动和发展的主管扎克·祖克(Zack Zook)说，过去几年，他偶尔会参加一些短片和艺术项目的在线筹款活动，他因此受到了启发。
“There’s something that feels really neutral about throwing a hundred bucks in a pot,” Mr. Zook said. “People like to be affiliated with a mission. And with any independent bookstore, it’s almost like a nonprofit — there’s really no money to play with.”
“随便拿出100美元，却有些什么原因让你不觉得心疼，”祖克说。“人们喜欢与一项使命联系起来。任何一家独立书店都感觉像是非营利机构，的确是没有钱可以挥霍。”