LEESBURG, Va. — Emboldened by Donald Trump’s struggles in the presidential race, Democrats in Congress are laying the groundwork to expand the list of House Republicans they will target for defeat as part of an effort to slash the Republicans’ 30-seat majority and even reclaim control if Trump falls further.
弗吉尼亚州利斯堡——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在总统竞选中陷入困境，让民主党国会议员有了底气，他们正进行一些基础工作，以便扩充被其列为击败目标的共和党众议员名单。这是他们行动的一部分，目的是大力削减共和党30个席位的多数优势，甚或在特朗普的支持率进一步下降之际夺回控制权。
Trump’s unpopularity, which has already undermined the party’s grip on the Senate, now threatens to imperil Republican lawmakers even in traditionally conservative districts, according to strategists and officials in both parties involved in the fight for control of the House.
加入众议院控制权之争的两党策略师和官员均表示，特朗普的不受欢迎已经损害了共和党对参议院的控制力，目前甚至有可能在传统的保守派选区危及共和党众议员的前程。
Democrats are particularly enticed by Trump’s dwindling support in affluent suburban areas — including those near Kansas City, Kansas; San Diego; Orlando, Florida; and Minneapolis — where Republicans ordinarily win with ease. Trump is so disliked among college-educated voters, especially white women, that he is at risk of losing by double digits in several districts that the 2012 Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, carried comfortably.
让民主党人尤其受到鼓舞的是，在富裕的郊区地带——包括堪萨斯州堪萨斯城、圣迭戈、佛罗里达州奥兰多以及明尼阿波利斯附近郊区——也就是共和党通常会轻松获胜的地方，特朗普的支持率正日益下降。受过大学教育的选民，尤其是白人女性，极为厌恶特朗普，因此，在2012年的共和党提名人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)表现得游刃有余的几个选区里，特朗普可能会以两位数的劣势输掉。
Few Democrats say they believe their party is positioned, at this point, to take control of the House, where Republicans hold their largest majority in 87 years. Because of the way congressional districts are drawn, Republicans have a powerful structural advantage even in a punishing political environment.
共和党眼下在众议院以87年来最大的优势占据着多数席位。没有几个民主党人会宣称，他们相信自己的政党目前已经做好了夺得众议院控制权的准备。鉴于国会选区的划分方式，即便是在极为艰难的政治环境中，共和党依然拥有强大的结构性优势。
But Republicans are also bracing to take more forceful steps if Trump continues to drag down their candidates. Multiple strategists involved in the campaign for control of Congress said Republican outside groups were prepared to run ads treating Trump as a certain-to-lose candidate and urging voters to elect Republicans as a check on Hillary Clinton.
不过，共和党人也在谋划，如果特朗普继续拖本党候选人的后腿，他们会采取更加有力的措施。参加国会控制权争夺战的多名策略师称，有共和党的外围团体准备推出把特朗普当成必输候选人来对待的广告，呼吁选民投票给共和党人，以便制衡希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。
Republican candidates and groups are also weighing a renewed television barrage against Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and the House minority leader, who is unpopular in many swing districts there.
此外，一些共和党候选人和团体正考虑发起针对众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州民主党议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)的新一轮负面电视广告。在加州的不少摇摆选区，选民不太喜欢佩洛西。
While Democrats have sought publicly to temper expectations that they could win the House, in private meetings, they are laying out ways to expand their battle plan to fight for more seats.
尽管民主党人在公开场合竭力淡化他们可能拿下众议院的期望，但私下碰面时，他们却在想方设法地扩大作战计划，力争获得更多席位。
And their donors appear increasingly motivated: Last month, the House Democratic campaign raised $12 million while House Republicans raised just $4.6 million, a remarkable disparity given that the party in control usually dominates fundraising.
与此同时，他们的捐赠者似乎越来越积极：上个月，民主党众议院竞选团队募得了1200万美元，而共和党团队仅募得了460万美元。鉴于拥有控制权的政党通常在募款方面占据绝对优势，这种差异颇为惊人。
Pelosi emailed fellow lawmakers on Thursday and highlighted an academic study that suggested the majority might be within reach, according to someone who received the message, who requested anonymity because the message was supposed to be private.
佩洛西在上周四发给国会同僚一封邮件，着重提及了一项学术研究。一位收件人称，这项研究显示，对民主党而言，多数席位或许可以企及。由于该邮件本应属于私人交流，该人士要求不具名。
Both parties are also eyeing a set of moderate- to conservative-leaning open seats in states like Indiana and Minnesota, where incumbents are retiring or running for other offices.
此外，在印第安纳和明尼苏达等州，有一些目前倾向温和派或保守派的席位，而现任议员准备退休或谋求其他职务，两党均在觊觎这些将要空出来的席位。