House Speaker Paul Ryan dealt a hammer blow to Donald Trump’s presidential candidacy Monday, dashing any remaining semblance of party unity and inviting fierce backlash from his own caucus by announcing that he would no longer defend Trump’s candidacy.
周一，众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)宣布将不再维护唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的总统候选人资格，对后者的候选人地位造成沉重打击，也对党内仅存的一点团结的表象构成冲击，招来他自己的党团的强烈反对。
Ryan’s stance drew an immediate rebuke from Trump, who tweeted that Ryan should focus on governing instead of feuding with him.
瑞安的立场立即引来特朗普的指责。后者在Twitter上表示，瑞安应该将注意力放在管理上，而不是跟他纠缠不休。
But Ryan informed Republican lawmakers on a morning conference call that he would never again campaign alongside Trump, and would dedicate himself instead to defending the party’s majority in Congress, according to five lawmakers who participated in the call and spoke on condition of anonymity.
但瑞安在一个清晨电话会议中告知共和党议员，他再也不会和特朗普一起参加竞选活动，而是会投身于维护共和党在国会中的多数党地位。该消息来自参加该电话会议的五名议员，他们要求不具名。
Effectively conceding defeat for his party in the presidential race, Ryan said his most urgent task was ensuring that Hillary Clinton did not enter the White House with Democratic control of the House and Senate, two lawmakers said.
两名议员表示，瑞安称他最紧迫的任务是确保希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)不会在民主党控制众议院和参议院的情况下入主白宫。这相当于承认自己的政党在总统竞选中失败。
The reaction from hard-liners was swift and angry: Over the course of an hour, a stream of conservative lawmakers spoke up to urge their colleagues not to give up on Trump, and chided Ryan for surrendering prematurely in the presidential race.
对此，强硬派快速做出了愤怒的反应：在一个小时的时间里，众多保守派议员接连大声疾呼，敦促他们的同事不要放弃特朗普，同时指责瑞安在总统竞选中过早地承认失败。
One member, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher of California, attacked Republicans stepping away from Trump as “cowards,” three lawmakers said. Another, Rep. Trent Franks of Arizona, used graphic language to describe abortion and said allowing Clinton into the White House would end with fetuses being destroyed “limb from limb.”
三位议员表示，其中一位成员、加州众议员达纳·罗拉巴克尔(Dana Rohrabacher)对放弃特朗普的人进行抨击，称他们是“懦夫”。另一名成员、亚利桑那州众议员特伦特·弗兰克斯(Trent Franks)用触目惊心的语言谈论堕胎，表示让克林顿入主白宫将导致胎儿被“大卸八块”。
In an effort to quiet the uproar, Ryan chimed back in after about 45 minutes to assure members that he was not withdrawing his endorsement of Trump, but rather doing what he considered to be in the best interests of the House.
为了平息这场骚动，瑞安在大约45分钟之后缓和了态度，表示他不是取消对特朗普的支持，而是做他认为最符合众议院利益的事。
Trump appeared indifferent to the distinction, lashing back at Ryan with a belittling message on Twitter.
特朗普似乎对这种差别不以为然，在Twitter上对瑞安进行了猛烈的反击。
“Paul Ryan should spend more time on balancing the budget, jobs and illegal immigration and not waste his time on fighting Republican nominee,” Trump tweeted.
“保罗·瑞安应该花更多时间在平衡预算、就业和非法移民问题上，而不是浪费时间和共和党提名人作对，”特朗普在Twitter上写道。
AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Ryan, confirmed that his sole priority for the remainder of the election would be defending congressional Republicans.
瑞安的发言人阿什莉·斯特朗(AshLee Strong)确认，他在余下竞选过程中唯一的优先事项，将是维护国会共和党人的利益。
“The speaker is going to spend the next month focused entirely on protecting our congressional majorities,” Strong said.
“议长打算下个月将注意力全部放在维护我们在国会中的多数党地位上，”斯特朗说。
Trump’s candidacy was already in a dire condition before Ryan’s announcement: A poll published Monday by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal found him trailing Clinton by a wide margin and drawing less than 40 percent of the vote. The survey was taken before Sunday night’s debate.
在瑞安发出此番言论之前，特朗普的竞选形势已经十分不妙：周一发布的由NBC新闻频道(NBC News)和《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)联合进行的一项民意调查显示，他的支持率大幅度落后于克林顿，只有不到40%。这项调查是在上周日晚上的辩论之前进行的。
Rep. Scott Rigell, R-Va., who has long been opposed to Trump, said there was a general sense in the House that more humiliating disclosures about Trump were likely to come before Nov. 8, Election Day.
长久以来一直反对特朗普的弗吉尼亚州共和党众议员斯科特·里格尔(Scott Rigell)表示，众议院普遍有这样一种感觉，即在11月8日大选日到来之前，可能会出现有关特朗普的更令人感到耻辱的事实披露。
“There’s a consensus, even among supporters, that the likelihood of something else breaking in a very embarrassing and negative fashion, is certainly better than 50-50,” said Rigell, who joined the call on Monday. “The conference, members, et cetera, are bracing themselves for another salvo of this.”
“就连他的支持者中也有这样一种共识，再次出现难堪和负面的爆料的几率肯定是超过50%的，”里格尔说。他参加了周一那场电话会议。“这场会议以及党内都准备好了迎接另一波此类事件。”
Speaking to reporters aboard Clinton’s campaign plane on Monday, Jennifer Palmieri, her communications director, made it clear the campaign intented to tie down-ballot Republicans to Trump with a new fervor — after months of casting his candidacy as a dangerous anomaly.
周一在对竞选专机上的随机记者们讲话时，克林顿的通讯联络主管珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)明确表示，在连续数月将特朗普的候选人资格描述为危险的反常现象之后，他们会加紧行动，把需要参加地方选举的共和党人跟特朗普联系到一起。
“There was a time where they could have stopped Donald Trump. There was a time where they could have spoken out against him,” Palmieri said of senior Republicans like Ryan. “That time was this summer. Obviously it is too late now.”
“他们原本有机会阻止唐纳德·特朗普。那时候他们本可以公开反对他，”帕尔米耶里这样评论瑞安等共和党高层。“那个时机是今年夏天。现在显然已经太晚了。”
Trump’s campaign had hoped that the debate would halt an exodus of fellow Republicans from his candidacy, and publicly implored members of the party on Monday morning to hang with him through Election Day.
特朗普的竞选团队原本希望这场辩论可以让共和党人不再大批背离他。他们还在周一上午公开恳求共和党成员与特朗普一直坚持到大选日。
In an effort at reassurance, Mike Pence, Trump’s running mate, toured the morning television shows to tamp down speculation that he might leave the ticket. At a campaign stop in North Carolina, Pence said he was “proud to stand with Donald Trump.”
为了表示安慰，特朗普的竞选搭档迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)出现在各个早间新闻节目中，平息有关他可能会退出竞选的猜测。在北卡罗来纳的一个竞选活动中，彭斯表示他“为能与唐纳德·特朗普并肩作战感到自豪”。
But in a potentially ominous sign for the party, Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, also offered a note of warning for Republicans fleeing Trump. Ryan, she noted on television, had been booed by Trump fans over the weekend in Wisconsin after asking Trump not to attend a political event in his home state.
但特朗普的竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)也对离开特朗普的共和党人发出警告。她在电视上指出，在瑞安要求特朗普不要参加在他自己的主场州举行的一场政治活动之后，特朗普的支持者于上周末在威斯康辛向瑞安喝了倒彩。对共和党而言，这可能会带来不良的后果。
Conway also repeatedly indicated that she was aware of Republican lawmakers who had behaved inappropriately toward young women, and whose criticism of Trump was therefore hypocritical.
康维还反复表明，她知道有些共和党议员也曾对年轻女性有过不得体的行为，因此他们对特朗普的指责是虚伪的。
Ryan’s huddle with House Republicans was the first of multiple war councils in Washington on Monday, as Republicans weighed how to handle a nominee whose campaign has appeared to unravel in recent days.
面对一个竞选形势近来岌岌可危的提名人，共和党人在思考如何应对，瑞安与众议院共和党员此次私下会商，就是周一召开的几场作战会议的第一场。
The Republican National Committee, which has been fiercely loyal to Trump, was to hold a conference call with its members later in the afternoon. In contrast to the mounting defections from Trump’s campaign among Republican elected officials, the party chairman, Reince Priebus, has remained close to Trump and flew with him to the debate in St. Louis over the weekend.
一直对特朗普忠心耿耿的共和党全国委员会(The Republican National Committee)也将于当天下午晚些时候举行电话会议。与共和党民选官员越来越多地脱离特朗普竞选阵营形成对比的是，该委员会主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)依然与特朗普保持着密切关系，在上周末与他一起飞往圣路易斯出席大选辩论。
As telling as the fury from outspoken conservatives in the House was the silence from so many mainstream Republicans in the chamber, who showed little appetite to argue for — or with — their embattled nominee.
与众议院保守派直接表现出的愤怒一样，那么多主流议员的沉默也很能说明问题。对于这位处境艰难的提名人，他们似乎既不想与之争论，也不愿为之辩解。
Few anti-Trump voices spoke up on the call with Ryan. Rep. Martha Roby of Alabama, an early defector from Trump on Saturday, said she would contribute significant funds to help Republicans hold the House. But she said she would speak in private with colleagues about her decision to withdraw her endorsement in the presidential race.
在与瑞安的电话会议中，少数几名反特朗普人士发表了看法。比较早脱离特朗普阵营的阿拉巴马州众议员玛莎·罗比(Martha Roby)周六表示，她会贡献大笔资金，帮助共和党守住众议院。但她也表示，她会私下与同事们谈论她在总统竞选中收回对特朗普支持的决定。
Rep. Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a vocal critic of Trump, asked his colleagues if they were truly confident that there would be no more damaging disclosures about Trump. In any case, Dent argued the presidential race was now effectively over for Trump.
向来强烈批评特朗普的宾夕法尼亚州众议员查利·登特(Charlie Dent)问他的同事，是否真的相信不会再有有关特朗普的破坏性信息披露。登特认为，无论如何，对特朗普来说，总统竞选现在实际上已经结束了。