WASHINGTON — A House divided along unusual and unpredictable lines voted Wednesday to authorize the training and arming of Syrian rebels to confront the militant group Islamic State, backing President Obama after he personally pleaded for support.
华盛顿——周三，以一种不寻常的、空前的方式分为两个阵营的众议院(House)进行了投票，授权为叙利亚叛乱分子提供培训及武器，以对抗武装组织伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，这个决定是在奥巴马亲自提出支持请求后做出的。
The 273-to-156 vote was over a narrow military measure with no money attached, but it took on outsize importance and was infused with drama. Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, actively and strongly backed the legislation, and both sought to portray it as a modest measure. The Senate hopes to pass it as soon as Thursday.
众议院就不涉及金钱的有限军事举措进行投票，投票结果为273比156，这场投票具有重要意义，充满戏剧性。众议院议长、俄亥俄州众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)和众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州众议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)都积极且强烈支持该法案，两人都力图将该法案描绘成适度举措。参议院(Senate)有望最早在周四通过该法案。
“The American forces that have been deployed to Iraq do not and will not have a combat mission,” President Obama said Wednesday in addressing troops at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida. “I will not commit you and the rest of our armed forces to fighting another ground war in Iraq.”
“已经被部署至伊拉克的美国部队没有作战任务，将来也不会有，”奥巴马周三在佛罗里达州麦克迪尔空军基地(MacDill Air Force Base)对士兵发表演讲时说。“我不会派你们及其余武装部队参与伊拉克的另一场地面战争。”
But the theater around the debate and the vote belied that portrayal. The president, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and top White House officials personally lobbied for the measure’s passage, calling more than 70 Democrats and Republicans on national security committees and in leadership posts to appeal for their support. Mr. Obama and his allies pleaded with lawmakers not to cut his legs out from under him as he tries to assemble an international coalition to confront the terrorist group.
但围绕相关讨论和这次投票的风波证明，奥巴马的这番描述并不真实。奥巴马、副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)和白宫高级官员私下里都为使方案获得通过进行了游说，他们打电话给国家安全委员会和担任领导职位的超过70名民主党人和共和党人，呼吁他们支持该方案。奥巴马及其盟友请求众议员们，不要在他试图组建一个对抗该恐怖组织的国际联盟时，放弃对他的支持。
“Obama is our commander in chief,” said Representative C. A. (Dutch) Ruppersberger of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. “You don’t weaken the commander in chief when we’re in a serious crisis.”
“奥巴马是我们的三军总司令，”马里兰州众议员、众议院情报委员会民主党领袖C·A·达奇·鲁珀斯伯格(C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger)说。“当我们陷入严重危机时，你不应该削弱总司令。”
Opponents in both parties framed the vote as a step toward a wider war in a region where American troops have been fighting for more than a decade. Republican and Democratic vote-counting operations said they would not press for “yes” on what they termed a “vote of conscience.”
两党的反对者都认为，这次投票是朝着在这个美军已参战超过10年的地区扩大战争的一步。共和党和民主党的计票人员称，这是在投“良心票”，他们不会强迫人们投支持票。