As a student at Parsons the New School for Design, Miisha Jones started off in a dorm, later sharing a one-bedroom in the theater district with a roommate. When her roommate graduated, Ms. Jones was happy to leave their high-rise building on West 50th Street, where she paid $1,875 for her half of a flex, or a one-bedroom turned two-bedroom by means of a temporary wall.
米莎·琼斯(Miisha Jones)是帕森设计学院(Parsons the New School for Design)的学生，一开始她住在宿舍，后来与一位室友在剧院区(Theater District)合租了一套一居室，每人分摊1875美元（约合人民币11699元）的房租。这套公寓位于西50街(West 50th Street)的一座高层建筑里，室内由临时隔墙隔成了两居室。室友毕业后，琼斯也很乐意换个地方住。
She mulled a move to a waterfront high-rise in Long Island City, Queens, partly at the urging of her mother. But she preferred surroundings on a smaller scale, and decided to hunt in Brooklyn.
部分是由于母亲的催促，她曾考虑过搬到皇后区(Queens)长岛市(Long Island City)的一座滨水的高层里。但她本人更喜欢周边环境的范围小一些，于是决定到布鲁克林找房。
“I was looking for a cozier neighborhood and something not so busy as the theater district with all the tourists,” said Ms. Jones, who is 22. Living near the popular musical “Wicked,” she often felt overwhelmed by the crowds.
“我当时想找个温馨一点的住宅区，并不想住在剧院区这种生活节奏繁忙、到处都是游客的地方。”现年22岁的琼斯说。由于住处距离流行音乐剧《女巫前传》(Wicked)的剧场很近，她常常对汹涌的人潮感到无所适从。
“The weekends were the worst,” she said. “You get the tourists who stop in the middle of the sidewalk, and it’s, like, ‘Keep moving, keep moving.’ Eighth Avenue was a prime location for everything, it seemed. There was one point where we were barricaded in because Obama was driving through.”
“周末是最糟的，”她说，“你总会遇到挡在人行道中间不走的游客，让人就想喊‘快走啊，快走啊’。第八大道看起来是唯一的黄金地段。有一次我们被挡在了路上，因为奥巴马正开车经过。”
One summer day, as Ms. Jones was riding a bus to visit relatives in New Jersey, she couldn’t help but notice the couple seated in front of her. They were apartment-hunting themselves, using the app for Urban Compass, a real estate company. Ms. Jones downloaded it, inquired about a few listings and heard from Chaka Smith, a salesman there.
去年夏季的一天，琼斯坐大巴去新泽西州看亲戚。在车上，她不由自主地注意到坐在前面的一对情侣。他们正在用房地产公司Urban Compass推出的应用找公寓。琼斯也下载了这个应用，咨询了几套房源，并联系上了Urban Compass的销售员查卡·史密斯(Chaka Smith)。
She told him she wanted a relatively small building in a residential Brooklyn neighborhood. For a one-bedroom, her monthly budget was in the mid-$2,000s. She and her mother were also pondering a two-bedroom that could function as an alternative to a hotel for her mother, a Seattle-based tech executive whose work often takes her to New York. Their budget for this was the mid-$3,000s.
琼斯告诉他，自己想在布鲁克林的住宅区里找一处较小的楼盘。对于一居室，她每月的租金预算是2500美元（约合人民币15599元）左右。她和母亲也在考虑租一套两居室，因为她母亲在一家总部位于西雅图的公司担任技术高管，经常需要来纽约出差。如果租两居室，母亲来纽约就不用住旅馆了。她们对两居室的预算为3500美元（约合人民币21838元）左右。
“At the beginning, Miisha was pretty vague about what she wanted,” Mr. Smith said. “The biggest thing for her was proximity to a train so she could get to school. She told me up front if there was a newly renovated brownstone unit, she would probably like it.”
“一开始，米莎对自己的需求很含糊，”史密斯说，“对她来说最重要的是靠近车站，方便她去学校。她一开始就告诉我说，如果有新装修的褐石住宅公寓，她可能会喜欢。”
He showed her a sunny one-bedroom for $2,600 a month in a three-story building in Cobble Hill. The apartment, with a pretty oriel window and exposed brick, had new appliances and even a washer-dryer. Ms. Jones liked the idea of not having to schedule her laundry around classes or haul it to a basement room. She loved the neighborhood, which was both quaint and convenient. But she decided to keep looking.
他带她去看了一套阳光充足的一居室，房租2600美元（约合人民币16223元），楼盘是科尔布山(Cobble Hill)的一座三层楼房。这套公寓带有一扇漂亮的飘窗，砌着裸露的砖墙，配备了新家电，甚至还有一台洗衣/烘干两用机。让琼斯舒心的是，住在这里不需要特意安排洗衣时间，也不需要把脏衣服带到地下室去洗。她喜欢这个社区，因为它既古朴又方便。但她还是决定继续找房。
“I was very indecisive,” she said, “so I wanted to see more places just in case there was something better.”
“我很优柔寡断，”她说，“所以我想多看几套房子，万一可以找到更好的呢。”
A two-bedroom duplex for $3,500 a month in Boerum Hill wasn’t better. Ms. Jones liked the neighborhood but was put off by the railroad layout, the dark ground-floor bedrooms and the even darker room for laundry and storage on the lower level.
波伦山(Boerum Hill)有一套两居室的复式住宅，每月房租3500美元，但并非一个更好的选择。琼斯喜欢它所在的社区，但令她望而却步的是，这套公寓采用的是列车式布局(railroad layout)，一楼的卧室光线很暗，地下的洗衣房和储藏间就更暗了。
She quickly dismissed another Boerum Hill entry, a $2,600-a-month one-bedroom in a five-year-old building. It was on Fourth Avenue, a busy thoroughfare with an industrial ambience.
她很快又否决了波伦山的另一套月租2600美元的一居室房源。其所在楼盘的房龄有五年，位于第四大道，这条大街很繁忙，有着工业区的氛围。
The Cobble Hill one-bedroom had become her reference point. “My mom said, ‘Let’s continue to see some more, just in case,' ” Ms. Jones said.
科尔布山的那套一居室已成为了她的参考标杆。“我妈妈说，‘我们再多看几套吧，说不定会有更好的’。”琼斯说。
A new brick building in East Williamsburg had a duplex with a balcony and a loftlike upstairs bedroom for $2,800.
东威廉斯堡(East Williamsburg)有一栋新砖楼，其中有套复式住宅。它带一个狭窄的阳台，楼上有一间阁楼似的卧室，每月的房租是2800美元（约合人民币17471元）。
The living room was being used as a bedroom by the departing roommates. “I wanted something that had legitimate rooms,” Ms. Jones said. “If my mom was going to be here, I don’t think there is any privacy as far as a door. Everything was open.”
它的客厅被当时即将搬走的租户当成了卧室。“我想要真正的房间，”琼斯说，“如果我妈要在这里住，我觉得没有房门就不可能有隐私了。一切都是开放式的。”
The place was also several long blocks from the nearest train. “I was stuck on the whole tight-knit quaint neighborhood thing,” Ms. Jones said. In Williamsburg, “things seemed farther apart.”
而且，从这里去最近的火车站要走好几个漫长的街区。“我还是比较喜欢古朴而紧凑的社区，”琼斯说，在威廉斯堡，“不同地方似乎间隔得更远。”
She remained uncertain. She sent many photos to her mother “because I didn’t want to make the decision on my own,” she said. “My mother is big on sunlight. I am the type to be a hermit inside. She said, ‘Make sure there is enough sunlight so you can feel lively and awake or it will be depressing.' ”
她依然拿不定主意。她给母亲发了很多照片，“因为我不想自己做决定，”她说，“我妈喜欢那种洒满阳光的房子，而我的本性喜欢隐居。我妈说，‘你要确保房子里有足够的阳光，这样你就会感到自己有活力、很清醒，要不然，你会觉得很压抑。’”
Her mother urged her to focus on two bedrooms. And this time, a place in Cobble Hill seemed right, a two-bedroom in a walk-up building with a pretty garden view, exposed brick and a stacked washer-dryer in the bathroom.
母亲劝她把重点放在两居室上。这一次，科尔布山的一套房源似乎是合适之选。这是一套无电梯公寓楼里的两居室，坐拥美丽的花园景观，砌着裸露砖墙，浴室里还配了一台堆叠式洗衣/烘干两用机。
“I am very indecisive, so I came back online and looked at the pictures 10,000 times,” Ms. Jones said. In the end, she realized, “I could see myself in it.”
“我很犹豫不决，所以回到家后我又在网上把它的照片看了一万次，”琼斯说，最后她意识到，“我可以想象自己住在里面的样子。”
The monthly rent was $3,600; her offer of $3,400 was accepted. She and her mother signed a one-year lease. The broker fee was 13.5 percent of a year’s rent, or approximately $5,500. “I was kind of stressed,” Ms. Jones said. “I expected the application process to be long and drawn out,” but it went smoothly.
每月的房租是3600美元（约合人民币22462元）；她们报价3400美元（约合人民币21214元），对方接受了。她和母亲签订了一年的租约。中介费是年租金的13.5%，即大约5500美元（约合人民币34317元）。“我有点紧张，”琼斯说，“我以为申请过程会很漫长，”但结果很顺利。
She arrived in the fall, and is adjusting to an old building with finicky heat. Having a washer-dryer “is like a dream come true,” she said. “I can throw my gym stuff in there without having to wait until Sunday to wash all my clothes. I can wash anything whenever, despite the fact I respect my neighbors and don’t want to have my washer going at 2 a.m.”
她在去年秋天搬入了新家，目前正在满怀热情地适应这里的生活。家里有一台洗衣/烘干两用机“就像梦想成真了一样，”她说，“我可以把去健身房换下的衣服扔进去，而不必等到星期天再洗所有衣服了。我可以想洗什么就洗什么，想什么时候洗都行。不过我很尊重邻居，不想在凌晨两点还开着洗衣机。”