Just three months after raising an enormous sum of money from investors, Uber is at it again.
三个月前刚从投资者那里筹集到一大笔钱的优步(Uber)又要融资了。
The ride-hailing service is planning to raise close to $1 billion in new venture capital from investors, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Investors are looking at a valuation of $60 billion to $70 billion.
知情人士称，这家叫车服务公司计划从投资者那里筹集近10亿美元风险投资。投资者预期该公司的估值在600亿美元到700亿美元之间。
Such a fundraising round would make Uber the world's most valuable private startup by far. A round just this summer valued the company at more than $50 billion, a bit more than Facebook's last big private capital raise in 2011.
这样一轮融资会让优步成为目前世界上估值最高的初创公司。今年夏天那一轮融资对该公司的估值是500多亿美元，略高于Facebook上市前在2011年进行的最后一轮融资中的估值。
Nearly as eye-popping as its soaring valuations has been the furious pace at which Uber has been raising money. The latest round of financing will be the eighth that the company has sought over the last five years.
几乎和日渐飙升的估值同样吸引眼球的，是优步的融资步伐。最新一轮融资将是该公司在五年时间里的第八次融资。
More precise targets on the size and the valuations will be determined after the company begins talks with investors in coming weeks, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Executives at Uber and the company's board have approved another round, and the company plans to start holding official conversations in the next few weeks, they said.
要求匿名的消息人士称，有关融资规模和公司估值的准确目标，接下来几周该公司与投资者开始谈判后，才能确定下来。他们表示，优步的高管和公司董事会已经批准进行另一轮融资，公司计划在未来几周正式开始对话。
An Uber spokeswoman declined to comment Friday.
周五，优步的一名女发言人拒绝置评。
While Facebook's last big fundraising round took place a year before the social network went public, Travis Kalanick, Uber's founder and chief executive, has little interest in going public in the near future.
尽管Facebook最后一轮大规模融资结束一年后，这家社交网络公司便上市了，但优步创始人兼首席执行官特拉维斯·卡兰尼克(Travis Kalanick)对于在近期内上市几乎没什么兴趣。
“We're like eighth-graders. We're in junior high and someone is telling us that we need to go to the prom, and it's just a little early,” Kalanick said at The Wall Street Journal's WSJDLive Conference in Laguna Beach, California, on Tuesday. “Let us get into high school before we start talking about these sorts of things.”
“我们就像八年级学生。我们刚上初中，就有人对我们说，要参加毕业舞会，实在有点早，”卡兰尼克周二在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)在加州拉古纳海滩举办的WSJDLive全球科技大会上说。“我们还是先上了高中再谈这些事情吧。”
Founded in San Francisco in 2009, Uber has swollen to operations in more than 300 cities across 63 countries around the globe.
2009年成立于旧金山的优步，业务已遍及全球63个国家的300多个城市。