In a letter to a fellow physicist in 1915, Albert Einstein described how a scientist gets things wrong:
1915年阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦(Albert Einstein)在给一个物理学家同行的信中，描述了科学家是怎样犯错的：
“1. The devil leads him by the nose with a false hypothesis. (For this he deserves our pity.)
1. 魔鬼用错误的假设牵着他的鼻子走。（这一点值得我们同情）。”
“2. His arguments are erroneous and sloppy. (For this he deserves a beating.)”
“2. 他的论证错误而草率（这一点应该挨打）。”
According to his own rules, Einstein should have been pitied and beaten alike. “Einstein himself certainly committed errors of both types,” the astrophysicist Mario Livio writes in his enlightening new book, “Brilliant Blunders.”
根据爱因斯坦的原则，他本人既值得同情，也该挨打。“这两种错误爱因斯坦本人当然都犯过，”天体物理学家马里奥·利维奥(Mario Livio)在他具有启发意义的新书《聪明的错误》(Brilliant Blunders)中写道。
Much of what we read about science is some version of a success story: Scientists just discovered the oldest human fossil; how did they do it? Success is certainly part of the story, but this version of Whig history blinds us to how people actually do science. Science is a mess. It’s shaped by the time and place in which scientists work. Scientists choose to do a certain experiment or interpret an observation for many reasons. “More than 20 percent of Einstein’s original papers contain mistakes of some sort,” Livio writes. “In several cases, even though he made mistakes along the way, the final result is still correct. This is often the hallmark of great theorists: They are guided by intuition more than by formalism.”
我们读到的科学故事大多都是成功的：科学家们刚刚发现了最古老的人类化石；他们是怎么做到的？成功当然是科学故事的一部分，但是辉格党(Whig)历史的这个版本蒙蔽了我们，让我们无法看到人们实际上是如何做科学研究的。科学是一团糟。它是由科学家工作的那个时代和地点决定的。科学家决定做某项实验或者解释某个现象是有很多原因的。“爱因斯坦最初的论文中有超过20%含有某种错误，”利维奥写道，“有好几次，虽然他在研究过程中犯了一些错误，但最终的结论仍然是正确的。这往往是伟大理论家的品质特点：他们听从直觉而非形式主义的指引。”
For many people, however, being a great scientist means being above error. That’s why it is so common to see a magazine cover headline declaring, in screaming type, Einstein was wrong, or its weasel-word variant, was Einstein wrong?
但是很多人以为，伟大的科学家就是从不犯错的科学家。所以经常看到杂志封面用大标题醒目地宣布：爱因斯错了，或者问道：爱因斯坦错了吗？
Livio’s book is a valuable antidote to this skewed picture. He profiles five great scientists — Einstein, Charles Darwin, Lord Kelvin, Linus Pauling and Fred Hoyle — each of whom made major discoveries and major mistakes. All five put their chips down on the wrong number, even as others prevailed. Thanks to his deep curiosity, Livio turns “Brilliant Blunders” into a thoughtful meditation on the course of science itself.
利维奥的书是纠正这种曲解的一剂良药。他提到了五位伟大的科学家——爱因斯坦、查尔斯·达尔文(Charles Darwin)、开尔文勋爵(Lord Kelvin)、莱纳斯·鲍林(Linus Pauling)和弗雷德·霍伊尔(Fred Hoyle)——他们每个人都有过重大发现，也犯过严重错误。所有这五个人都曾押错过赌注，甚至是在其他观点很流行的时候。由于利维奥强烈的好奇心，他把《聪明的错误》一书变成了对科学道路本身的深思。
When Charles Darwin presented his theory of evolution in 1859, he built a foundation for all of modern biology. Crucial to his theory was the fact that animals and plants inherited traits from their ancestors. Natural selection favored some traits over others, giving rise to long-term change. But Darwin didn’t know how heredity worked. He devoted a lot of time to developing ideas that, in hindsight, seem daft. “Darwin had been educated according to the then widely held belief that the characteristics of the two parents become physically blended in their offspring,” Livio writes, “as in the mixing of paints.” By this logic, each ancestor’s genetic contribution would be halved in each generation.
1859年查尔斯·达尔文提出进化论的时候，他给整个现代生物学建立了基础。他的理论最关键的证据是动物和植物遗传其祖先的特点。有些特点通过自然选择被保留了下来，而另一些特点消失了，从而导致最终的重大变化。但是达尔文不知道遗传是怎样进行的。他花很多时间想出的一些思路在如今看来有些愚蠢。“达尔文接受的教育是当时普遍盛行的理论，认为父母双方的特点会混合在孩子身上，”利维奥写道，“就像颜料的混合一样。”按照这个逻辑，每个祖先的基因特点在下一代身上会减少一半。
This idea wasn’t just wrong. It undermined Darwin’s own theory of evolution. If our traits are just a result of blended particles, it shouldn’t be possible for natural selection to change traits over the generations. But try as he might, Darwin couldn’t figure out a better explanation.
这种观点不仅是错误的，而且摧毁了达尔文进化论的根基。如果我们的遗传特征只是粒子混合的结果，那这些特征就不可能通过自然选择在几代之后得以改变。虽然达尔文可能也尝试过，但是他想不出一个更好的解释。
Yet right around the time that Darwin published “On the Origin of Species,” the Czech monk Gregor Mendel was discovering genetics. Crossing pea plants in his garden, he got a glimpse at how heredity actually does work. Darwin apparently never became aware of Mendel’s work, nor did he discover Mendel’s results for himself.
不过就在达尔文出版《物种起源》(On the Origin of Species)的那个时期，捷克修道士格雷戈尔·孟德尔(Gregor Mendel)正在创立遗传学。通过在自己的花园里杂交种植豌豆，他对遗传的实际过程有了模糊的认识。达尔文显然从未注意到孟德尔的研究，他本人也没有得出孟德尔的结论。
Today biologists can track evolution at the molecular level because they know what genes are made of. In the early 1950s, Francis Crick and James Watson worked out the double-helix structure of DNA. They worked quickly, because they knew that the Nobel Prize-winning biochemist Linus Pauling was trying to solve the puzzle as well. Pauling came very close, but stumbled just as Watson and Crick were making their breakthrough. He got stuck on the idea that DNA forms three intertwined spirals, rather than two, and worse, he made an elementary error in the chemistry — his nucleic acid molecule was actually not an acid.
如今，生物学家能从分子水平追踪进化过程，因为他们知道基因是由什么构成的。20世纪50年代初，弗朗西斯·克里克(Francis Crick)和詹姆斯·沃森(James Watson)发现了DNA的双螺旋结构。他们研究得很快，因为他们知道诺贝尔奖得主、生物化学家莱纳斯·鲍林也在努力解开这个谜团。鲍林在快要成功的时候犯了一个大错，而当时沃森和克里克正好取得了突破。他陷入了一个错误的假设，认为DNA是由3条相互缠绕的螺旋构成的，更糟糕的是，他在化学研究中犯了一个低级错误——他的核酸分子实际上不是酸。
Shortly after Crick and Watson published their discoveries in 1953, Pauling paid them a visit at Cambridge and examined their model of DNA. He acknowledged that they were right and he was wrong, and soon afterward he made the same declaration in public. That kind of graciousness is not universal among Livio’s blunderers, though. The great physicist Lord Kelvin held firm, until his death in 1907, to his conviction that the Earth was only millions of years old.
1953年在克里克和沃森公布他们的发现不久，鲍林就去剑桥拜访了他们，检验了他们的DNA模型。他承认他们是对的，自己是错的，不久之后就公开发表了同样的声明。不过，利维奥提到的犯过重大错误的科学家们并不是都这样大度。伟大的物理学家开尔文勋爵直到1907年去世还坚持认为地球只有数千万年的历史。
Kelvin believed that life had been designed, and he investigated the age of the Earth in part to rebut Darwin’s theory of natural selection. If Darwin’s theories were right, then the Earth must be very old, but geologists had no way to precisely measure the planet’s age. Kelvin had the brilliant insight that the temperature of rocks might hold the answer.
开尔文认为生命是被设计出来的，他研究地球年龄的其中一个目的是反驳达尔文的自然选择理论。假如达尔文的理论是正确的，那地球应该很老了，但是当时地质学家们没有办法准确测量地球的年龄。开尔文聪明地预见到也许能从岩石的温度中找到答案。
The Earth, Kelvin rightly reasoned, had started out as a ball of molten rock. It took a straightforward mathematical exercise to calculate how long it had taken for the Earth to cool to its current temperature. And when Kelvin did the math, he concluded that the Earth was fairly young, roughly 100 million years (we now know it to be about 4.567 billion years old). He carried out similar calculations to work out the comparable age of the Sun. If the Sun had indeed formed billions of years ago, Kelvin believed it would have burned out long ago.
开尔文正确地推断出地球最初是一团熔岩。他认为，只需要一个简单的数学运算就能算出地球花了多长时间冷却到现在的温度。开尔文进行了这样的运算，得出的结论是地球相当年轻，只有差不多1亿年的历史（现在我们知道这个数字大约是45.67亿年）。他用同样的方法算出了太阳的年龄。开尔文认为，假设太阳真的是在几十亿年前就形成了的话，那它早就燃烧殆尽了。
Kelvin was wrong for two reasons. As a former student of his pointed out, Kelvin assumed that the Earth’s interior was fixed and transports heat at the same rate everywhere. In fact, it roils like boiling water, transporting heat to the surface. The other reason for Kelvin’s error was quantum physics. Radioactivity helps keep the Earth warm, and nuclear fusion has allowed the Sun to burn for 4.567 billion years. Kelvin’s critics brought both these counterarguments to his attention, but he seems to have viewed them with contemptuous indifference.
开尔文犯错的原因有两个。他以前的一个学生曾指出，开尔文认为地球内部是固定的，热量在所有的地方以同样的速度向外散发。实际上，地球内部像沸腾的水一样翻腾。另一个原因是量子物理学。放射现象在帮助地球保温，核聚变让太阳燃烧了45.67亿年。开尔文的批评者提醒他注意这两个相反的论点，但是他似乎对这些论点很不屑，没有理会。
Nuclear fusion doesn’t just power stars, it also creates new elements like carbon and iron. The British astrophysicist Fred Hoyle made this tremendous discovery in the 1940s and ’50s. Unfortunately, Hoyle might be better known for promoting a flawed theory about the origin of the universe: He was convinced that the universe was in a continual state of creation. As evidence for the Big Bang mounted, he became an increasingly embarrassing crank.
核聚变不仅给恒星提供能量，还能产生新元素，比如碳和铁。英国天体物理学家弗雷德·霍伊尔(Fred Hoyle)在20世纪四五十年代发现了这个重要现象。不幸的是，霍伊尔更为人所知的也许是他宣扬的一个关于宇宙起源的错误理论：他坚信宇宙处于不断创造的状态。随着大爆炸理论证据的增加，他越来越被看做一个令人尴尬的怪人。
Livio chooses Einstein as the fifth member of his blundering quintet. Einstein was puzzled as to why the universe didn’t cave in on itself. Empty space, he suggested, contained a mysterious energy pushing outward, resisting the universe’s inward collapse. After he published this idea — what came to be known as the cosmological constant — he regretted it. He said it didn’t emerge naturally from his equations; he’d tacked it on like a cheap piece of plywood over a hole in a roof.
利维奥选择爱因斯坦做他的犯错五重奏的第五个成员。爱因斯坦一直不明白为什么宇宙没有自己塌陷。他认为，空无一物的空间含有一种向外推的神秘力量，阻止了宇宙向内塌陷。在他发表了这个观点（后来被称为宇宙常数）之后，他后悔了。他说这个常数不是从他的等式中自然出现的；他像是用一块廉价的胶合板修补屋顶的大洞。
Einstein eventually denounced the cosmological constant. And that, it turns out, was his big mistake. In the 1990s, physicists discovered dark energy, something very similar to that mythical force.
爱因斯坦最终否定了宇宙常数，结果犯下了大错。20世纪90年代物理学家们发现了暗能量，它与爱因斯坦提到的神秘力量非常类似。
Livio brings the care of a historian to his nimble narratives, avoiding heroic clichés. He’s less adept at explaining why these great scientists made their mistakes, too often trotting out pop psychology to demonstrate why people stubbornly cling to ideas even when they see evidence to the contrary. The psychology of bad science is a fascinating topic, but it requires a broader look at how the entire scientific community operates. Five scientists — no matter how great — cannot shoulder that load.
利维奥把历史学家的谨慎用到了自己聪明的描述中，避免了英雄赞歌式的陈词滥调。他不太善于解释为什么这些伟大的科学家会犯错，过于频繁地引用流行心理学的观点，以说明为什么人们即使在看到相反的证据之后仍然固执地坚持错误的观点。研究坏科学的心理学是个迷人的话题，但是它需要更宽阔的视野，看看整个科学领域是怎样运转的。五个科学家——不管他们多么伟大——挑不起这个重担。