The theater director Robert Wilson is best known for his stunning stage pictures, gorgeous lighting and lengthy evenings. The latest of his productions to hit New York is “The Life and Death of Marina Abramovic,” a biography of the performance artist that takes its narrator, played to the hilt by Willem Dafoe, a mere two hours and forty minutes to unpack.
戏剧导演罗伯特·威尔森(Robert Wilson)以惊人的舞台画面、华丽的灯光和漫长的夜晚闻名。他最近在纽约上演的作品是《玛丽娜·阿布拉莫维奇的生与死》(The Life and Death of Marina Abramovic)。这部关于这位行为艺术家生平的戏剧只有两小时四十分钟，由威廉·达福(Willem Dafoe)带来精彩旁白。
The show, “LADMA” for short, which has been staged in several other cities in recent years, opened Friday night at the Park Avenue Armory for a 10-day run that is deep in visual pleasure. As Wilson told supporters at an exclusive precurtain dinner, it’s also “a little slow.”
这部戏近几年在其他几个城市演出过，周五晚上在帕克大道军械库(Park Avenue Armory)开幕，连演10天，能让观众获得高度的视觉享受。而威尔森在内部幕前晚宴上对记者们说，这也是一出“小戏”。
No joke. A snail would feel at home during this presentation, which also features Abramovic and the ethereal singer Antony Hegarty, who contributed nine songs. He sings six of them, and on Friday night, every time he cut loose with that otherworldly voice of his, everyone in the sold-out house gripped their seats.
这不是开玩笑。慢性子的人观看这部戏剧会感觉很自在。阿布拉莫维奇本人也在剧中出演，此外还有优雅飘逸的歌手安东尼·赫加蒂(Antony Hegarty)，他为该剧写了九首歌。其中六首由他本人演唱，周五晚上，每当他一展自己超凡的歌喉，满座剧场内的每个人都抓紧了椅子。
“Bob did the opposite of what we normally do here,” said Alex Poots, the Armory’s artistic director, about Wilson’s approach to the space. “He built a proscenium theater around the piece.”
“鲍勃的做法跟我们通常的做法正好相反，”军械库的艺术总监亚历克斯·普茨(Alex Poots)在谈论威尔森的舞台设计时这样说，“他做了一个舞台前部装置。”
So he did. The structure takes up most of the hall, with a stage that is just a bit shorter than Radio City’s. When the audience filed in, the curtain was already up. Three women wearing white Abramovic masks lay on black coffins that were tilted up to face the seats. (The 67-year-old artist wants three coffins for her burial, to take place in New York, Amsterdam and Belgrade, the three cities where she has lived, leaving her public to decide which contains her body.) A piercing voice filled the air. It belonged to the traditional Serbian singer Svetlana Spajic, whose aching, incantatory vocals provide much of the two-act show’s emotional arc. A rather trance-inducing electronic score by William Basinski gives the rest of the performance the sort of flow and dissonance you associate with dreams — and nightmares.
的确如此。这个装置占据了前厅的大部分空间，使舞台比无线电城音乐厅的舞台只短一点。观众们陆续入场时，大幕已经拉开了。三个戴着阿布拉莫维奇白色面具的女人躺在三口黑色的棺材上，棺材微微倾斜，面向观众（这位67岁的艺术家希望为她的葬礼准备三口棺材，葬礼分别在纽约、阿姆斯特丹和贝尔格莱德举行，那是她居住过的三个城市，让公众决定把她的身体放在哪口棺材里）。空气中飘荡着一个尖利的声音，那是塞尔维亚传统歌手斯维特拉娜·斯帕吉克(Svetlana Spajic)的声音。她令人心痛的、魔咒般的歌声奠定了这部两幕戏剧的主基调。威廉姆·巴辛斯基(William Basinski)让人恍惚的电子配乐给其余的表演带来某种流动感与不和谐，让你联想到美梦和噩梦。
During the first act, when Abramovic stands in for her demanding, demonized mother, she doesn’t say a word. Seated in a swivel chair at the far right of the long stage, where he is surrounded by cardboard boxes, Dafoe speaks both for and about her, delivering his rapid-fire monologue while dancers pantomime the tempestuous events of the Abramovic household of Marina’s youth.His face painted clown white, a carrot-red wig combed into a pompadour, Dafoe gives a performance that lies somewhere between the Joker from “Batman” and Joel Grey’s M.C. from “Cabaret.”
在第一幕中，阿布拉莫维奇扮演她苛刻、妖魔化的母亲，她一句话也没有说。达福坐在长舞台最右边的一个转椅上，被纸箱包围，他在替她说话，也在讲述她的故事，他的独白语速很快，而舞者们则用舞蹈表现玛丽娜年轻时家里发生的狂暴事件。达福的脸涂成小丑式的白色，胡萝卜色的假发梳成高卷式发型，他的表演既像《蝙蝠侠》(Batman)中的小丑，又像《歌厅》(Cabaret)中乔尔·格雷(Joel Grey)扮演的MC。
“It’s incredible,” the photographer Ines van Lamsweerde enthused at the intermission. “Your heart cracks open whenever Antony sings.” The artist Janine Antoni, on the other hand, was disappointed that Abramovic had had so little to do to that point. “She’s been my idol,” Antoni said. “But this is all Wilson, isn’t it?”
“真是不可思议，”摄影师伊内丝·范·莱姆斯维德(Ines van Lamsweerde)在幕间休息时兴奋地说，“安东尼一唱歌，你的心就碎了。”但是艺术家亚尼内·安东尼(Janine Antoni)感到失望，因为阿布拉莫维奇对打动观众贡献不大。“她是我的偶像，”安东尼说，“但是这部戏完全由威尔森掌控，不是吗？”
It was, and that was the plan. Three times — basically after traumatic breakups — Abramovic has asked another artist to make something of her life up to that point. (Staging her pain, she has said, helps get her through it.) The first was a four-minute film, made with Charles Atlas in 1989. The next was “Biography Remix,” a performance directed by Michael Laub for the 2005 Avignon Festival, in which 25 people played Abramovic. Even though she has said many times that she hates theater because “it’s all fake,” when her marriage to the artist Paolo Canevari ended, Abramovic turned to Wilson.
是这样的，本来的计划就是这样的。阿布拉莫维奇经历过三次令人心碎的分手，每次分手之后她都请另一位艺术家根据她当时的人生创作一个作品（她说把她的痛苦搬上舞台能帮她度过难关）。第一次是1989年和查尔斯·阿特拉斯(Charles Atlas)拍摄了一个四分钟长的短片。第二次是2005年迈克尔·劳布(Michael Laub)在阿维尼翁艺术节上导演的一个节目，名叫《重新合成的传记》(Biography Remix)，由25个人扮演阿布拉莫维奇。虽然阿布拉莫维奇多次说过自己厌恶戏剧，因为“它们都很假”，但是当她和艺术家保罗·卡内瓦里(Paolo Canevari)的婚姻终结后，她向威尔森求助。
Things pick up in Act II, when Dafoe sings a wrenching song by Hegarty that begins with the line “Why must you cut yourself?” while crawling across the enormous stage through a low-lying mist. Abramovic also talk-sings, alone on stage, Marlene Dietrich-style. In that moment, she becomes the Marina Abramovic we know today, the one who can hold an audience spellbound.
在第二幕，情况好了一些。达福一边爬着穿过宽阔舞台上的低雾，一边唱着赫加蒂写的一首痛彻心扉的歌，第一句歌词是“你为什么一定要割伤自己？”阿布拉莫维奇也独自在舞台上以玛琳·黛德丽(Marlene Dietrich)的风格用歌唱来倾诉。那一刻，她成了我们如今所知道的玛丽娜·阿布拉莫维奇，一个能迷倒观众的人。
Backstage, after the show, I complimented her singing. (When I’d seen the show’s world premiere at the 2011 Manchester Festival, her delivery wasn’t as strong.) “That’s because Antony’s been coaching me!” she replied. At the cast party, minutes later, Wilson said, “She got better when she stopped trying to sing.”
演出结束后，我在后台称赞她的演唱（2011年我在曼彻斯特艺术节上观看这部戏的全球首演时，她唱得没有现在这么有力）。“那是因为安东尼一直在教我！”她回答说。在几分钟后的演员派对上，威尔森说，“她不再努力去唱的时候就唱得更好了。”
He had arrived that afternoon from a brief trip to Paris, where he is currently the toast of his town, with seven productions, including “Einstein on the Beach,” playing over the past few months in the Festival D’Automne, and an exhibition at the Louvre of his work as a visual artist, including 17 new “video portraits” of Lady Gaga.
威尔森是在当天下午结束在巴黎的短暂旅行后回到纽约的。现在他在巴黎很受敬仰，有七部作品正在展出，包括过去几个月在秋季艺术节上演出的《沙滩上的爱因斯坦》(Einstein on the Beach)以及作为视觉艺术家在卢浮宫的个人作品展，其中包括给Lady Gaga拍摄的17部新的“视频肖像”。
“I love the scene at the Great Wall,” he continued, referring to the artist’s breakup with her mentor Frank Uwe Laysiepen, known as Ulay, her first love. “In rehearsal,” Wilson said, “Marina said she couldn’t do it, because it’s about the saddest moment in her life. So I said, “Well then, we’ll play it funny.” With Dafoe kibitzing to counter her moans, the opening-night audience laughed out loud.
“我喜欢长城上的那场戏，”他继续说道。他指的是阿布拉莫维奇与她的导师、第一个爱人弗兰克·乌维·莱西潘(Frank Uwe Laysiepen)分手的那场戏。莱西潘更为人知的名字是乌拉伊(Ulay)。威尔森说，“排练的时候，玛丽娜说她没法儿演，因为那差不多是她人生中最悲伤的时刻。所以我说，那好吧，我们把它演得滑稽一点。”她在哀叹的时候，达福在一旁乱插嘴，开幕当晚的观众哄堂大笑。
Evidently, putting all of your troubles onstage really works at killing the pain. Late in the show, Dafoe quotes from Abramovic’s 2013 diary: “A man kissed me like no one in my life ever has.” Backstage, Abramovic giggled. “I wanted to keep things up to date.”
显然，把你的所有烦恼搬上舞台真的能遏制痛苦。后来达福在戏中引用了阿布拉莫维奇2013年的日记：“一个男人吻了我，以前从来没人那样吻过我。”阿布拉莫维奇在后台咯咯笑道：“我想让观众知道最新的情况。”