Lt. Gen. Mikhail T. Kalashnikov, the arms designer credited by the Soviet Union with creating the AK-47, the first in a series of rifles and machine guns that would indelibly associate his name with modern war and become the most abundant firearms ever made, died on Monday in Izhevsk, the capital of the Udmurtia republic, where he lived. He was 94.
武器设计师米哈伊尔·卡拉什尼科夫中将(Lt. Gen. Mikhail T. Kalashnikov)于周一在他生前生活过的乌德穆尔特共和国首都伊热夫斯克去世，享年94岁。卡拉什尼科夫被苏联誉为AK-47的发明人，这种武器和此后的一系列步枪和机枪将他的名字和现代战争紧紧联系在一起，并成为有史以来产量最高的枪械。
Viktor Chulkov, a spokesman for the republic’s president, confirmed the death, the Itar-Tass news agency reported.
据塔斯社报道，共和国总统发言人维克托·丘尔科夫(Viktor Chulkov)确认了这个消息。
Born a peasant on the southern Siberian steppe, General Kalashnikov had little formal education and claimed to be a self-taught tinkerer who combined innate mechanical skills with the study of weapons to conceive of a rifle that achieved battlefield ubiquity.
卡拉什尼科夫将军出生于南西伯利亚草原上的一个农民家庭，没有接受过多少正规教育，据他自己说，他是一个自学成才的工匠，将机械方面与生俱来的天赋和对武器的研究结合起来，构思出了一支在战场上随处可见的步枪。
His role in the rifle’s creation, and the attention showered on him by the Kremlin’s propaganda machine, carried him from conscription in the Red Army to senior positions in the Soviet arms-manufacturing bureaucracy and ultimately to six terms on the Supreme Soviet.
他在这款步枪发明过程中起到的作用，再加上克里姆林宫的政宣机器不吝笔墨地宣传，让他从一个普通红军军人平步青云，在苏联政府武器制造系统中身居高位，六次当选最高苏维埃代表。
Tens of millions of Kalashnikov rifles have been manufactured. Their short barrels, steep front-sight posts and curved magazines made them a marker of conflict that has endured for decades. The weapons also became both Soviet and revolutionary symbols and widespread instruments of terrorism, child-soldiering and crime.
卡拉什尼科夫步枪的产量数以千万计。它们的短枪管、高准星和弯弹夹成为了几十年来武装冲突的标志。同时这种武器也成了苏联和革命的象征，以及恐怖主义者、娃娃士兵和罪犯广泛使用的枪械。
The general, who sometimes lamented the weapons’ unchecked distribution but took pride in having invented them and in their reputation for reliability, weathered the collapse of the Soviet Union to assume a public role as a folk hero and unequivocal Russian patriot.
卡拉什尼科夫有时会哀叹这种不加约束地扩散，但他对自己的发明以及它的可靠性充满自豪。经历了苏联的崩溃后，他继续以一个民间英雄和坚定的俄罗斯爱国者形象示人。
A Soviet nostalgist, he also served as the unofficial arms ambassador of the revived Russian state. He used public appearances to try to cast the AK-47’s checkered legacy in a positive way and to complain that knockoffs were being manufactured illegally by former Soviet allies and cutting into Russian sales.
作为一个对苏联时代念念不忘的人，他还成为了复兴的俄罗斯的非正式武器大使。他利用公开露面的机会把毁誉参半的AK-47往好的方向渲染，并抱怨那些昔日的苏联盟友在非法生产仿制品，跟俄罗斯抢生意。
The weapon, he said, was designed to protect his motherland, not to be used by terrorists or thugs. “This is a weapon of defense,” he said. “It is not a weapon for offense.”
他说这件武器是设计来保卫自己的祖国的，不是给恐怖分子或歹徒用的。“这是一件自卫的武器，”他说，“它不是用来进攻的。”
General Kalashnikov’s public life resulted from a secret competition to develop the Soviet infantry rifle for the Cold War. The result was the AK-47 — an abbreviation for “the automatic by Kalashnikov” followed by the year the competition ended.
卡拉什尼科夫作为公众人物的生活，源自苏联为研发用于冷战时期的步枪而展开的一场秘密竞赛。研发的成果就是AK-47——“卡拉什尼科夫自动武器”的缩写——竞赛也随之结束。
General Kalashnikov, a senior sergeant at the time who had been injured in battle against German tanks, was credited with leading the design bureau that produced the AK-47 prototype. The Soviet Union began issuing a mass-produced version to soldiers in 1949.
卡拉什尼科夫当时是一名上士，在和德军的坦克作战时负伤，后来受命领导一个设计局，制造出了AK-47的原型。苏联在1949年开始配装一个大规模生产的版本。
The true AK-47 was short-lived. It was followed in the 1950s by a modernized version, the A.K.M., which retained its predecessor’s underlying design while reducing its weight and manufacturing time.
真正的AK-47寿命很短。它很快在上世纪50年代有了一个现代化版本，即AKM，它保留了前身的设计要点，同时降低了重量和生产用时。
Shorter than traditional infantry rifles and firing a cartridge midway between the power of a pistol and the standard rifle cartridges of the day, the Kalashnikov line was initially dismissed by American ordnance experts as a weapon of small consequence. It was not particularly accurate or well made, they said, and it lacked range and stopping power.
卡拉什尼科夫系列比传统的步枪要短，使用的子弹威力介于手枪和当时的标准步枪弹药之间，美国军火专家一开始对它不以为然，认为它威力不大。他们说它准确性欠佳，工艺也不高，射程和制止力都不足。
The rifles eventually filled armories throughout Eastern Europe and Asia and spread from war to war, passing to Soviet allies and proxies, and to terrorists and criminals, aided by intelligence agencies and gray- and black-market sales. The United States became an active purchaser, arming anti-Soviet fighters in Afghanistan in the 1980s and indigenous Afghan and Iraqi forces in recent years.
最终这款步枪塞满了整个东欧和亚洲的军火库，通过一场场的战争扩散出去，被交给苏联的盟友、恐怖分子和罪犯，对此情报机构和灰市、黑市交易都起到了帮助作用。美国成为一个活跃的买家，在上世纪80年代用它来武装阿富汗的反苏战斗人员，近年还配备给阿富汗和伊拉克的武装部队。
General Kalashnikov’s bureau also used the A.K.M. design to develop machine guns for infantry squads, helicopter crews and vehicles. By the 1970s, the rifle’s design had become the basis for a new Soviet rifle, known as the AK-74, that fired a smaller and faster cartridge similar to that of the M-16. That rifle remains the standard weapon of the Russian Army.
卡拉什尼科夫的设计局还将AKM的设计用于研发步兵班组、直升机组和车辆使用的机枪。到了上世纪70年代，这种步枪的设计已经成为一种叫做AK-74的苏军新式步枪的基础，使用和M-16类似的一种更小、更快的子弹。那款步枪至今仍是俄罗斯陆军的列装武器。
The general often claimed that he never realized any profit from his work. But in his last years he urged interviewers not to portray him as poor, noting that he had a sizable apartment, a good car and a comfortable dacha on a lake near the factory where he had worked for decades.
卡拉什尼科夫经常说他没有因为自己的作品而获利。但在人生的最后几年里，他要求采访者不要把他描述成穷人，称自己有一座大公寓、一辆好车，还有一栋舒适的乡间宅邸，坐落在他工作了数十年的工厂附近的湖边。
Work and loyalty to country, he often suggested, were their own rewards. “I am told sometimes, ‘If you had lived in the West you would have been a multimillionaire long ago,’ ” he said. “There are other values.”
他经常说，工作和对国家忠诚，本身就是回报。“有人对我说，‘如果你生活在西方，你早就是个超级大富翁了，’”他说，“价值观不是只有那么一种的。”
How essential the general was to creation of the Kalashnikov line has been subject to dispute. A post-Soviet account in the newspaper Pravda challenged his central role, asserting that two supervisors repeatedly modified his weapon during field trials.
究竟卡拉什尼科夫对于卡拉什尼科夫系列产品的创造有多么重要，一直是个有争议的话题。苏联解体后，《真理报》(Pravda)在一篇文章中对卡拉什尼科夫的中心角色表示了质疑，说在实用测试过程中，有两名上级对他的武器进行了反复修改。
An amiable personality with a biography ideal for proletarian fable, he was given credit for their work, the newspaper claimed. The general fiercely disputed suggestions that the design was guided by others, but also said the rifle was the result of the entire collective that labored beside him.
《真理报》称，因为卡拉什尼科夫性格和善，而且他的生平也非常适合被改编成一个无产阶级励志故事，于是他就因为那两个人的工作获得了褒奖。他对枪支设计曾受他人主导的说法极为不满，但也表示这款步枪是自己身后整个团队共同努力的结果。
The Kremlin embraced his version, although a careful reading of the official histories and General Kalashnikov’s many statements and memoirs shows that his accounts of his life, combat service and work repeatedly changed, raising questions about the veracity of the conventional accounts.
克里姆林宫赞同他的叙述，虽然只要仔细阅读官方历史和卡拉什尼科夫的很多声明和回忆录就能发现，他对自己的生平、参战经历和工作的描述曾多次发生变化，这也引起了人们对那些约定俗成的说法的怀疑。
Mikhail Timofeyovich Kalashnikov was born in Kurya on Nov. 10, 1919. He was married twice, the second time to Ekaterina Kalashnikova, a technician in his design bureau. He is survived by a son from his first marriage, Viktor Kalashnikov, who is also an arms designer; a daughter from his second marriage, Elena Krasnovskaya; a stepdaughter, Nelya; and several grandchildren.
1919年11月10日，米哈伊尔·季莫费耶维奇·卡拉什尼科夫(Mikhail Timofeyovich Kalashnikov)出生在库里亚(Kurya)。他结过两次婚，第二任妻子是设计局的技术员叶卡捷琳娜·卡拉什尼科娃(Ekaterina Kalashnikova)。他仍然健在的家人还有：与第一任妻子所生的儿子、同为武器设计师的维克托·卡拉什尼科夫(Viktor Kalashnikov)，与第二任妻子所生的女儿叶莲娜·克拉斯诺夫斯卡娅(Elena Krasnovskaya)，继女涅尔娅(Nelya)，以及几个孙辈。
Later in life, he disapproved of anyone who he thought had hastened the Soviet Union’s downfall, or who had been unable to control the political and economic turbulence that followed. In memoirs and interviews, he was harshly critical of Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Boris N. Yeltsin.
在晚年，他对任何加速了苏联解体或未能控制随后的政治和经济动荡的人都持否定态度。他在回忆录和采访中曾激烈批判米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)和鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)。
To the end he remained loyal to what he called Socialist ideals and the leaders who gave them shape, and seemed untroubled by the hardships endured by his family during the early years of Soviet rule. His family’s land and home had been seized during collectivization, and when he was a child the family was deported into the Siberian wilderness. His father died during their first Siberian winter, and one of his brothers labored for seven years as a prisoner digging the White Sea canal.
直到最后，他仍然忠于他所谓的社会主义理想和那些塑造了这些理想的领导人，而且似乎并不在意他的家人在苏联统治早期阶段所忍受的那些痛苦。集体化时期，他家族的土地和房屋遭到没收；当他还是孩子的时候，全家被放逐到了西伯利亚荒野。在西伯利亚度过的第一个冬天，他的父亲去世，他的一个兄弟则作为囚犯挖了七年的白海运河。
Still, General Kalashnikov spoke of his great respect for Lenin and Stalin alike. “I never knew him personally,” he said of Stalin, “and I regret this.”
尽管如此，卡拉什尼科夫仍然表示自己非常尊敬列宁和斯大林等人。“我没跟他见过面，”他提到斯大林时说，“这让我感到遗憾。”