ESTHER BERNSTEIN, 6 years old with long blond hair, pulled on a pair of blue slippers with a gray tassel over the toe. She grinned.
6岁的埃丝特·伯恩斯坦(Esther Bernstein)留着一头长长的金发，她穿上一双鞋尖带有灰色流苏的蓝色拖鞋，咧嘴笑着。
“Look, Mom! I like these princess slippers!”
“妈妈你看！我喜欢这双公主鞋！”
“Would you wear them to play dress-up?” her mother asked.
“那你要不要穿着它们去玩换衣服游戏呀？”她妈妈问。
“Yes.”
“要。”
Esther’s 9-year-old sister, Sydelle, grimaced and freely offered that she would not.
埃丝特9岁的姐姐悉德勒(Sydelle)做了个鬼脸，直率地说她才不要。
“Well, Sydelle, you’re too old for this toy,” her mother said. “You’re not the target market.”
“悉德勒，你是个大小孩了，这玩具不适合你，”她妈妈说，“你不是它的目标市场。”
It was a Sunday night, after dinner, at the informal in-home testing lab of Melissa and Doug Bernstein, better known as Melissa & Doug, the toy company and the signature that adorns all their products. This August, their company will turn 25, celebrating a quarter-century of anachronism. In a time when major corporations dominate the industry, making toys with all manner of batteries, digital gimmicks or movie tie-ins, the Bernsteins keep making money in wooden puzzles, coloring pads, blocks, trains and simple costumes (the police officer, the princess, the pirate). They hatch many of their ideas by watching children at play — often among their own brood of six.
这一幕发生在玛丽莎和道格·伯恩斯坦(Melissa and Doug Bernstein)家中自建的非正式测试实验室里，时间是周日晚饭后。这对夫妻更广为人知的名称是玛丽莎安德(Melissa & Doug)，这是他们玩具公司的名称，印在公司的所有产品上。今年8月，玛丽莎安德将迎来它25岁的生日，庆祝公司“落伍”的四分之一世纪。如今支配着这个行业的是大型公司，它们制造各种电动、数字产品以及电影衍生品玩具，而伯恩斯坦家还在以木制拼图、着色画板、积木、玩具火车和简易娃娃服装（警察服、公主服和海盗服）赚钱。他们的许多想法都是在观察孩子们玩耍的基础上产生的，尤其是观察自己的六个孩子。
They do little public relations and don’t advertise in magazines, or on radio and television. They don’t put coupons in Sunday newspaper inserts. They don’t rely on big hits, industry analysts say, just a steady stream of variations on classic toys mostly for children up to the age of 5. Nonetheless, their business has grown by double digits every year, to an estimated $325 million in revenue this year from $100 million in 2008 (and to 650 employees from 200), according to a toy company executive familiar with the company’s operations. Such figures make theirs a midsize toy business, of which analysts say there are fewer and fewer these days. In this industry, three huge players — Mattel, Hasbro and Lego — account for around $14 billion in sales, or about a third of global toy company revenue.
玛丽莎安德几乎不做公关，不在杂志、广播或电视上打广告，也不往周末报纸的插页里塞优惠券。行业分析师说，他们依赖的不是一些产品的畅销大卖，而是针对众多5岁以下儿童的经典玩具的稳定改版。尽管如此，一位了解玛丽莎安德运营的某玩具公司经理透露，玛丽莎安德每年的业务都呈现两位数增长，预计今年的收入将从2008年的1亿美元增长到3.25亿美元（同时员工数从200人增加到650人）。这些数据表明玛丽莎安德是一家中等规模的公司，而分析师们称现在这样的公司越来越少了。目前玩具行业的三大公司美泰(Mattel)、孩之宝(Hasbro)和乐高(Lego)呈三足鼎立之势，它们三家的销售总额约占全球玩具公司的三分之一，达140亿美元左右。
The Bernsteins have come a long way from the days when they drove a Chevrolet Malibu, owned by Mr. Bernstein’s father, to deliver products. Growing up in Westport, Conn., an affluent community, Mr. Bernstein, now 50, thought himself the poorest kid, living in a 900-square-foot house. Now their home is 36,000 square feet, one of the biggest in the same township, with hand-chiseled stone and antique ceiling beams — not to mention a bowling alley, an indoor full-court gym and a video arcade.
从最初开着伯恩斯坦父亲的雪佛兰迈锐宝(Chevrolet Malibu)送货发展至今，伯恩斯坦一家取得了巨大成就。伯恩斯坦先生今年50岁，小时候在康涅狄格州的富人社区韦斯特波特长大，当时家里的房子只有900平方英尺（合83.6平米），让他觉得自己是那里最穷的小孩。现在他们家的房子占地3.6万平方英尺（合3344平米），是这个镇最大的住宅之一——用手工凿刻的石头和古董天花板横梁建造，更不用提它的保龄球馆、室内全场健身房和电子游戏室。
But they are, as Mrs. Bernstein, 47, puts it, restless, very restless — and challenges are upon them in an industry that, like so many others, is being rewritten in the technology age. Overall toy sales have slumped. Some specialty retailers have closed. Low-cost manufacturing has commoditized many items. But Internet sales have soared, meaning that the Bernsteins are having to adapt to online sales and marketing after years of building relationships with specialty stores.
但如47岁的伯恩斯坦太太所说，他们并不安逸——极不安逸。和许多其他行业一样，技术时代也在改变着玩具业，他们面临着诸多挑战。玩具整体销售大幅下滑；一些专业零售店被迫关张；低成本制造技术使许多玩具日益同质化。但网上销售量飙升，这意味着在与专业零售店建立了多年的关系后，伯恩斯坦一家不得不转而适应在线销售和营销。
Crucially, the rise of high-tech entertainment has changed how children play. Apps and video games have soared in popularity; on Amazon, you can even buy an iPod stand to accompany a potty trainer. The phenomenon can provoke conflicting feelings in parents. Should they give in to children’s yearnings for a phone app or video game? Or limit the screen time and offer up something simpler and more nostalgic, reminiscent of a childhood real or imagined?
最重要的是，高科技娱乐的兴起改变了儿童玩耍的方式。应用程序和视频游戏已经越来越流行，在亚马逊(Amazon)网站上，消费者甚至能买到带iPod支架的宝宝训练坐便马桶。这一现象会引发家长们的矛盾情绪：家长是否该向孩子妥协，满足他们对手机应用程序和视频游戏的渴望？还是限制数字产品的玩耍时间，转而提供一些更简单更怀旧，能让人回忆起真实或想象中童年的玩具？
The topic of traditional versus high-technology toys is one that particularly piques Mrs. Bernstein. “When you’re using a computer or an app, it’s giving you all the information you need,” she said. “It’s a completely reactive experience.” But she thinks she knows why that is so appealing. “Parents are so scared of having their kids say, ‘I’m bored.’ It’s synonymous with, ‘I’m a bad parent,’ and so they never allow kids to feel boredom, which equals frustration, and so kids don’t get to the point where they have to dig deeper and figure out what to do.”
传统玩具和高科技玩具的话题尤其刺痛着伯恩斯坦太太。“当你在使用电脑或应用程序时，它会提供所有你需要的信息，”她说，“这完全是一种无需动脑的反应体验。”但她觉得能明白为什么这种体验如此吸引人。“家长们很怕孩子跟他们说，‘我很没劲很无聊。’这相当于家长承认，‘我不是称职的家长，’所以他们从不让孩子觉得无聊，因为无聊等同于挫败。这样一来，孩子们就走不到必须深入挖掘才能想出该怎么办的那一步。”
Plenty of toy companies have joined Melissa & Doug in this niche, competitors whose simple offerings aim to entertain — but not too much. Companies like Haba, which makes blocks and wooden toys from sustainable woods, or Alex, which makes arts and crafts for “active fun.” But few companies can reach the size of the Melissa & Doug operation without facing a tough decision: Do you keep trying to expand on your own, pushing into larger retailers, or do you sell to a major toy maker?
玛丽莎安德所在的这个细分市场已经有大量玩具公司参与，这些竞争对手的产品单纯用于娱乐——但不过分娱乐。像Haba玩具公司，它的积木和木制玩具由可持续的木料制成，Alex公司的工艺美术玩具则是为了让孩子们感受“主动式的愉悦”。但几乎所有能达到玛丽莎安德规模的公司都面临着艰难的选择：是继续独立扩张，把产品打进更大规模零售商的渠道，还是把股权卖给大玩具公司？
A few years ago, the Bernsteins sold a majority stake to a private investment group to help them grow. They have long sold their goods in Toys “R” Us but are expanding their presence in other big retailers like Barnes & Noble. Some vendors complain that the company now can behave more like a mass-market vendor, not like a mom-and-pop operation.
几年前，伯恩斯坦为了帮助公司发展，把大部分股份卖给了一个私募股权投资集团。他们的玩具在玩具反斗城(Toys “R” Us)已经卖了相当长的时间，而伯恩斯坦现在正向巴诺(Barnes & Noble)等其他大零售商扩张。一些供应商抱怨这家公司越来越像一家大众供应商而不是夫妻店了。
Maintaining the ambience of a responsive, small company is one challenge. Another is how to satisfy their ambitions to expand lines of old-fashioned toys in a world filling with touch screens and interactive entertainment.
他们面临的一个挑战是怎样维持以迅速响应为特点的小公司氛围，另一个则是怎样在充斥着触摸屏和互动娱乐的世界里实现增加传统玩具产品线的野心。
ONE day in May, the Bernsteins conducted a tour of their home. On the back steps, overlooking an expansive backyard — a tennis court, a pool, a clubhouse for the children — Mr. Bernstein noted an inlaid stone compass that they had asked the contractor to dig up and reinstall twice, first because the directions were off and next because the stones didn’t line up. The pair suffer from acute perfectionism, Mr. Bernstein conceded, talking cheerfully in his usual unbroken clip.
5月的一天，伯恩斯坦夫妇在家里走了走。从后门的台阶上远眺宽广的后院——那里有网球场、游泳池和儿童俱乐部，伯恩斯坦太太视线停留在一个内嵌的石盘指南针上。他们叫承包商来修了两次，第一次是由于方向不准，第二次则是因为那些石头没有对直。伯恩斯坦像往常一样以不带一丝停顿的均匀语速欢快地承认道，他们夫妻俩都是极度完美主义者。
Mrs. Bernstein walked a step behind — arms crossed, brow furrowed, mostly silent. Then we entered the toy room, and her mood suddenly changed. The room, which included a play kitchen, was filled with Melissa & Doug products. Earlier, when she stocked that kitchen with bins of pretend fruits and vegetables, as well as sturdy wooden pots and pans, she saw that there weren’t any good pretend cereal boxes or canned goods.
伯恩斯坦太太走在先生后面一步，她双臂交叉，眉头紧锁，多数时候沉默不语。等走进玩具室时，她的情绪突然发生了转变。这间房里有一个玩具厨房，里面布满了玛丽莎安德的产品。早些时候，她在厨房里存放了桶装的玩具水果和蔬菜，以及用硬木做的水壶和平底锅，可当时没做出合适的玩具麦片盒和罐头食品。
So she set about making some, and the company recently came out with Melissa & Doug Grocery Cans, with labels like “tomato sauce” and “peas & carrots.” “One of our hottest items is a set of cans,” she exclaimed, her eyes lighting up, worry creases dissolving. “We really nailed that one.”
于是她开始着手做一些这样的玩具，最近公司推出了玛丽莎安德食品罐，罐头上贴着像“番茄酱”和“豌豆和胡萝卜”这样的标签。“我们的热销品之一就是这样一套罐头，”她高兴地说道，双眼放光，眉头忧虑的皱纹舒展开来，“这套产品我们做得相当成功。”
Her mood lighter, she acknowledged that the tour had made her anxious. The couple have never given a long interview, and Mrs. Bernstein said she worried that the opulence of their house would make them seem greedy or driven by money. More fundamentally, Mrs. Bernstein said she was prone to anxiety and did not like to feel out of control.
随着心情转好，伯恩斯坦太太坦承这圈走下来让她很焦虑。他们从未接受过长访谈，伯恩斯坦太太说，她担心豪华的房子会让人觉得他们很贪婪或唯利是图。最根本的是，伯恩斯坦太太说她容易焦虑，不喜欢失去控制的感觉。
As a child, first in Boulder, Colo., then in Westport, she was miserable, she said, the “loneliness too much to bear.” She described herself as a “creative misfit,” anxious and not eating, becoming anorexic in seventh grade. In college, she said, she stopped eating again and dropped to 82 pounds.
在孩提时代，伯恩斯坦太太住在科罗拉多州博尔德，后又搬到韦斯特波特，当时很痛苦，她说那时的孤独是“不能承受之重”。她称自己为“不合群的创意人”，焦虑且拒绝进食，在七年级的时候得了厌食症。她说，在大学的时候又开始不吃东西，体重降到82磅。
To comfort herself, she wrote poetry, sewed clothes for her dolls, worked on arts and crafts and played and wrote music. Creating things “took me out of what could have been,” she said. “I should, by all accounts, be on serious drugs. I could be very depressed.” She added: “When I create it makes me so happy. I’m able to soothe myself.”
为了缓解焦虑，她去写诗，给洋娃娃缝衣服，做工艺美术品并且作曲演奏。“创作使我走出原来的境况，”她说：“大家都说，我最终会非常抑郁，严重依赖药物。”她补充说：“在我创作的时候，我感到非常开心，能够靠自己平静下来。”
Mr. Bernstein was much more cheerful but equally intense. As a child, he did his playing outside — tag and whiffle ball — dawn to dusk. The son of a principal and a guidance counselor, he was a class clown and his high school’s graduation speaker.
伯恩斯坦先生要愉快得多，但也同样紧张。小时候，他在外面玩耍，如捉迷藏和威浮球(whiffle ball)，一玩就是一整天。他父母分别是校长和辅导员，而他成了班里的开心果和高中毕业典礼发言人。
Always hard-working and competitive, he campaigned for a student position on the board of the University of Connecticut bookstore — not even the student council — by walking around the dorms handing out fliers and giving stump speeches. Mr. Bernstein said he never so much as tasted alcohol, wanting his wits about him and worrying that he might relish it with the intensity he relished everything else. “It’s hard for me not to overdo things,” he said.
他总是努力学习、争强好胜。他曾参加康涅狄格大学(University of Connecticut)书店董事中的学生职位竞选，这个职位甚至不属于学生会。他在宿舍周围发传单，做竞选演说。伯恩斯坦先生说，他甚至滴酒不沾，他渴望掌控自己的智慧，可一旦喝酒，他担心自己会像喜欢其他东西一样强烈迷上喝酒，从而丧失才能。“我做事很容易做过头，”他说。
They were set up by their parents when Mr. Bernstein was 22, a recent graduate working at a marketing firm, and Melissa Landau was 20, still a student at Duke. They hit it off immediately.
伯恩斯坦22岁的时候，由他们的父母牵线相亲。当时伯恩斯坦刚毕业，在一家营销公司工作，而玛丽莎·兰道(Melissa Landau)那年20岁，还是杜克大学(Duke)的学生。他们一见钟情。
Ms. Landau became an analyst at Morgan Stanley after college, but she hated it. In June 1988, she and Mr. Bernstein decided during a trip to the Berkshires to start a company. “We said, ‘This is it,’ ” Mr. Bernstein remembered. “We do our own thing or perish and die.”
玛丽莎毕业后就职于摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)，任分析师一职，但她讨厌这份工作。1988年6月，在一次去伯克郡的旅途中，她和伯恩斯坦决定开一家公司。“我们说，‘就这么定了，’”伯恩斯坦还记得。“我们要么创业，要么麻木而死。”
They spent their savings, $40,000, on their first product, a VHS tape in which they invited children to sing along, dance and play kazoo with song lyrics written and performed by Mrs. Bernstein. Hawking the tape store to store, they learned that selling a product you had to demonstrate was hard work. Their next product was a “fuzzy puzzle” of a farm scene that had texture, like a carpet, aimed at offering a tactile experience. It was the first of what would become quintessentially Melissa & Doug products.
他们在第一个产品上花了4万美元的积蓄，那是一个家用录像带，伯恩斯坦太太谱写了一首歌并且在录像里亲自表演，还请来小孩子跟唱、跳舞和吹卡祖笛。他们从一家商店推销到另一家商店，从中学到了一条经验：销售一个必须演示才能让人明白的产品很困难。他们的第二个产品是一个农场的“植毛拼图”，质感像地毯一样，给孩子提供触觉体验。这是第一个典型的玛丽莎安德产品。
Their roles hardened, his around business and organization, hers around ideas for toys. Each pushed and supported the other’s ferocious work habits. And their philosophy solidified against technology, partly because it was anathema to their bread-and-butter products.
他们的分工进一步明确，伯恩斯坦负责业务和公司运营，太太负责玩具创意点子。两人相互推动和支持着对方不寻常的工作习惯。他们反技术的理念不断稳固，一部分原因在于高科技是对他们实用玩具的诅咒。
DOMESTIC retail toy sales have fallen 15 percent from 2004, to $21.5 billion in 2012, according to Richard Gottlieb, a veteran toy industry analyst. One reason has been the rise of multimedia entertainment like video games and phone apps. Analysts say it’s nearly impossible to tie a dollar figure to the growth of this kind of entertainment because it spans so many categories. What’s clear is that the time spent with these products is exploding.
玩具行业资深分析师里查德·戈特利布(Richard Gottlieb)指出，美国国内玩具零售额从2004年以来已经下跌了15%，至2012年的215亿美元。其中一个原因是视频游戏和手机应用程序这类多媒体娱乐的崛起。分析师们称，由于这类娱乐产品的范围太广，很难统计到具体的销售额增长值。但能确定的是，孩子们花在这些产品上的时间在爆炸式增长。
That’s true even of Melissa & Doug’s target market, children up to age 5. A 2011 study by Common Sense Media, a research group, found that 39 percent of children ages 2 to 4 had used a smartphone, tablet or other device to play games and to watch videos, while 12 percent of that demographic group used a computer daily and 24 percent at least once a week.
这一现象在玛丽莎安德的目标市场里（即5岁以下儿童）甚至也是存在的。研究公司常识媒体(Common Sense Media)在2011年的一份研究中发现，39%的2-4岁儿童曾使用智能手机、平板电脑或其他设备来玩游戏和观看视频，并且这个年龄段的孩子中有12%的人每天使用电脑，24%的人至少一周玩一次。
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that parents limit and monitor screen time for children up to 2 years old, noting that “a child’s brain develops rapidly during these first years, and young children learn best by interacting with people, not screens.” But that recommendation, made in 2011, is less stringent than the organization’s 1999 call for a veritable ban on screen time for children of that age. That call was softened because the organization felt that the ubiquity of screens rendered an outright ban unrealistic.
美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)建议家长限制和监控2岁以下孩子对着屏幕的时间。该学会指出，“孩子的大脑在最初几年发育最迅速，幼儿在与人交流、而非人机互动中学得最好。”但这个2011年的建议没有儿科学会在1999年提出的切实禁止该年龄段孩子玩电子产品的号召那么严厉。号召力度软化，是由于该机构认为目前电子产品铺天盖地，彻底下禁令已经变得不现实。
Technology use by children has a business side effect, too: it creates competition for their time. An “oversupply of play” is what Mr. Gottlieb calls it. There are now so many more options — often relatively inexpensive ones, like 99-cent apps. Over time, he said, traditional toy makers may find sales falling further as parents see their children spending more time with interactive media while their toy pile gathers dust.
儿童对技术的使用在企业方面也有副作用：这引起了对儿童时间的竞争。戈特利布称之为“玩耍的供给过剩”。可供选择的东西太多了，而且通常相对便宜，如99美分的应用程序。他说，久而久之，当家长们看到孩子花在交互媒体上的时间越来越多，而玩具却堆在一旁落满灰尘时，传统玩具商的销售额会进一步下滑。
“At some point, this is going to catch up in dollars,” Mr. Gottlieb said. “Parents will say: ‘Why does my kid have all these toys?’ “ That would be a problem for Melissa & Doug, he said.
“到一定时候，这就会反映在家长的支出上，”戈特利布说：“家长们会说：‘为什么我的孩子要这么多玩具？’”他说，这对玛丽莎安德来说会构成一个问题。
For now, part of Melissa & Doug’s appeal is as an antidote, if not a substitute, for all that screen time. Parents may buy their child a plastic play table with push buttons to play songs or make a miniature light show, but they might also buy an old-fashioned floor puzzle or wooden truck.
目前，玛丽莎安德产品的一部分吸引力在于它们是应对孩子们长时间面对屏幕问题的中和剂，甚至可以充当替代品。家长们可能会给小孩买一个塑料游戏桌，按下按钮就会有音乐演奏或小型灯光表演，但他们也有可能买一个老式的桌面拼图或木头卡车。
Dr. Lindy Fox, a dermatologist shopping recently in the Ambassador Toys store in San Francisco, has this urge. She likes Melissa & Doug toys — the puzzles, in particular — saying they are well-made and could be collector’s items. But they don’t jump out at her 3-year-old son, Zuri, who, she said, considers them a little boring and prefers toys with “bells and whistles.”
琳蒂·福克斯(Lindy Fox)博士是一名皮肤科医生，最近她在旧金山的Ambassador Toys玩具店买玩具时，有种强烈的购买欲望。她喜欢玛丽莎安德玩具，尤其是他们的拼图。她认为这些拼图做工精良，可以成为收藏品。但她3岁的儿子苏利(Zuri)就不那么喜欢了，她说，儿子觉得拼图有点无聊，他更喜欢有点“闹腾”的玩具。
“He’s not a kid — I haven’t seen a kid — who goes to the toy store and says: ‘Ooh, let me get that,’ “ she said of Melissa & Doug toys. She said she bought them almost as a “rebellion against digitized toys,” as a good-for-you plaything, akin to buying healthy, organic food.
“我没见过有小孩走进玩具店会说：‘哦，我要那个，’我的儿子也不会那样，”她谈到玛丽莎安德的玩具时说。福克斯表示，买这些玩具就像“对数码玩具的反抗”，它们是“对你有好处”的玩具，和买健康有机食物一个道理。
“The thing about Melissa & Doug toys,” she said, “the problem with them, is they encourage you to be creative, which is great, but they also, speaking of it kind of concretely, are relatively one-dimensional.”
“对玛丽莎安德来说，”她说，“他们的问题是，他们激发你的创造力，这一点非常棒，但另一方面，稍微具体点说，他们相对只有一个维度。”
The child has to bring the extra dimension, the creative spark, which is why Nicole Limburg, a stay-at-home mother of four in an Akron, Ohio, suburb, is such a Melissa & Doug fan. “You don’t just hit buttons and hear noises,” she said.
孩子得自己找出其他的维度，即创造力的火花，这就是妮可·利贝曼(Nicole Limburg)成为玛丽莎安德粉丝的原因。“它们不是那种按个键然后听到闹声的玩具，”她说。利贝曼住在俄亥俄州的阿克伦，是家庭主妇、四个孩子的母亲。
Ms. Limburg’s children have differing tastes: the youngest, who is 4, likes simpler wooden toys; the 7-year-old likes American Girl dolls; and the 10-year-old prefers to play outside. As for the 8-year-old, well, he can’t get enough of the Wii and iPod. She said they all watch more TV than she’d like — they sit in front of it for hours if allowed. And sometimes she lets them if she needs to do laundry or take care of the house.
利贝曼太太的孩子们各自喜好不同：最小的孩子4岁，喜欢玩简单的木头玩具；7岁的喜欢洋娃娃；10岁的喜欢在户外玩耍。而8岁的孩子却迷上了任天堂Wii游戏机和iPod。她说这些孩子们看电视的时间都比她希望的长。假如家长允许，他们可以在电视机前面一坐几个小时。而有时候她得洗衣服或打扫卫生，不得不由着孩子们。
The Bernsteins talk about these challenges with their own children, four who live at home (ages 5 to 10) and two away at college (ages 18 and 19). For the little ones, the parents put a timer on the computer that kicks them off after an hour. But their house has many flat-panel TVs, including one next to the swimming pool for in-pool viewing. Still, Mrs. Bernstein said, the options don’t stop her children from saying: Mom, we’re bored.
伯恩斯坦夫妇以自己孩子为例谈论这些挑战，他们有四个住在家里的小孩（5至10岁），还有两个已经搬出去上大学（分别是18岁和19岁）。对小一点的孩子，他们在电脑上设置计时器，一小时后自动关闭电脑。但他们家有很多台平板电视机，游泳池旁都有一台，以供在池中时观看。伯恩斯坦太太说，有这么多娱乐项目可选，孩子们还是会说：“妈，我们好无聊。”
“It’s a lot easier to give up and give in,” she said. Her own childhood taught her that creativity can be a salve. “They’re like: ‘What do I do? What do I do now? They’re almost in a panic because they don’t know how to soothe themselves.”
“要放弃和屈服真的容易得多了，”她说。童年经历让她明白，创造力可以成为安慰剂。“孩子们会说：‘我该做什么？现在该做什么？’由于不知道该怎样安抚自己，孩子们甚至陷入了恐慌。”
By definition, toys are means of entertainment, and Melissa & Doug items include many task-specific games and projects, like coloring books with implicit rules or craft kits with everything included. These aren’t toys you have to bring much imagination to.
从定义上说，玩具是孩子们的娱乐工具，玛丽莎安德的许多产品是有具体任务的游戏和项目，比如按隐藏的规则给书着色，或者用一套散乱的部件组合出一件物品。这些玩具不需要孩子们发挥太多的想象力。
The Bernsteins say their foremost motivation is building compelling toys, not building an empire. But they have taken aggressive steps to build their market. In the last six years, they have made 22 acquisitions or joint ventures aimed at developing or expanding the market for toys made by smaller companies.
伯恩斯坦夫妇说，他们最根本的驱动力是制造出让人爱不释手的玩具，而不是建立一个玩具王国。但他们在开发市场方面采取了不少激进的措施。在最近六年，他们进行的收购或合资达22起，以期发展和壮大小型玩具公司的市场。
In 2010, they sought out and struck a deal to sell a majority share of their company to Berkshire Partners, a private investment firm. Mr. Bernstein declined to say how much money they received or precisely what percentage was sold. He said they made the move to push into new areas, like a new baby-toy line, and to reproduce their efforts overseas.
2010年，玛丽莎安德找到私募股权投资公司伯克希尔合伙公司(Berkshire Partners)并与它达成协议，出售公司大部分股份。伯恩斯坦拒绝透露售价或具体的股权出售比例。他说，此举是为了向新领域推进，如新的婴儿玩具产品线，并进军海外市场。
Jim Silver, editor in chief ofTimeToPlayMag.com, said the Melissa & Doug story was noteworthy because it showed “that you can take a company out of nowhere and grow it” one toy at a time. “It wasn’t like they came out with Teenage Mutant Turtles or Power Rangers,” he said.
娱乐资源网站TimeToPlayMag.com的主编吉姆·西尔弗(Jim Silver)说，玛丽莎安德的故事值得关注，因为它证明，一次精耕细作一件玩具，“就能从无到有建立一个公司，并且将它做大”。“这家公司可没有忍者神龟(Teenage Mutant Turtles)或金刚战士系列(Power Rangers)，”他说。
But he also said the company could grow further and faster if it licensed characters or themes. He noted that Lego once eschewed licenses but that it eventually embraced Star Wars and “just exploded.”
但他也提到，如果玛丽莎安德能取得某些玩具人物和主题的授权，公司可能会有更快更大的发展。他举例说，乐高玩具曾经也不愿经营授权产品，但最终取得了星球大战(Star Wars)的形象授权，并实现了“爆炸式增长”。
“You want to take this thing to the next level, to $400 million or to $500 million,” Mr. Silver said. “You do have to become active and do some things you don’t do. You can’t say: we don’t do promotion; we don’t do licensing.”
“要想进一步提升公司规模，到4亿或5亿美元的年销量，”西尔弗先生说：“你必须在市场上活跃起来，做一些以前不做的事。你不能说：我们就是不做促销，就是不经营授权产品。”
But that’s exactly what the Bernsteins have been saying. They won’t use licenses, seeing them as a short-term growth strategy relying on the ephemeral popularity of a given character.
但这正是伯恩斯坦夫妇一直所说的。他们不会购买许可授权，因为他们认为这只是凭借某个卡通角色的暂时流行而获取增长的短期策略。
E. J. Whelan, a managing partner at Berkshire Partners, said he “fell in love” with the Melissa & Doug brand partly after realizing how many of his own daughters’ toys were made by the company. He said he and his partners had explored closely whether the toy industry was going in the other direction, toward high tech, and decided that there was ample room for simpler toys.
伯克希尔合伙公司管理合伙人E·J·魏兰(E.J. Whelan)说，在了解到女儿的很多玩具都是由玛丽莎安德制造后，他“爱上了”这个品牌。他说，他和公司的其他合伙人仔细探讨了玩具业是否会向别的方向发展，向高科技发展，结论是简单玩具仍有很大的市场空间。
The Bernsteins could go in that other direction if they wanted. Mr. Bernstein said the company received multiple e-mails each week from major toy companies wanting to collaborate on Melissa & Doug-centric apps, video games or other media.
如果伯恩斯坦夫妇愿意，他们完全可以向别的方向发展。伯恩斯坦先生说，公司每周会收到好几封大玩具公司的邮件，想与他们合作开发以玛丽莎安德玩具为核心的应用程序、视频游戏或其他媒体娱乐。
“That would be selling out,” Mr. Bernstein said.
“那样就是自我背叛了，”伯恩斯坦先生说。
AT the Melissa & Doug headquarters on a corporate strip in Wilton, Conn., Mrs. Bernstein has an open-air work space, a rectangular area filled with prototypes and other works in progress. As she pointed to the shelves along the wall, another pensive look crossed her face, this one less worried and more wistful than before.
玛丽莎安德总部坐落在康涅狄格州威尔顿市的公司集中带。在这里，伯恩斯坦太太有一个开放的工作区，这个矩形区域里布满了模型和其他进行中的作品。当她指向墙边的架子时，她显得若有所思，这一次不那么焦虑，更多的是留恋。
“This,” she said, “is the wall of shame and despair.”
“这个，”她说，“是耻辱和绝望之墙。”
Dozens of toys line those shelves — puzzles, stuffed animals, wooden piggy banks and so on. They have the look and feel of Melissa & Doug products, but they were among the 25 percent of toys that flopped with consumers.
几十个玩具排在那些架子上，有拼图、填充动物和木头存钱罐等。它们都带着玛丽莎安德产品的样貌和感觉，但它们被归类到不被消费者认可的25%的产品中。
Mrs. Bernstein conceded that some people don’t give the company much credit for innovation. After all, long before Melissa & Doug came along, there were puzzles, sand toys and wooden trains. Even some retailers, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they didn’t want to upset their relationship with the company, said it often built on others’ successful ideas.
伯恩斯坦太太承认，一些人并不认可公司的创新。毕竟，在玛丽莎安德出现之前，就已经有拼图、沙滩玩具和木头火车了。甚至一些零售商（由于不愿影响和玛丽莎安德的关系使用匿名）也说，这家公司经常把想法建立在别人的成功创意上。
Mrs. Bernstein argued that both things are true: the company does build on successful ideas, and it innovates. The point, she said, is to find “classic play patterns” and “make them more enticing in all kinds of ways.”
伯恩斯坦太太说两点都正确：一是他们的公司的确建立在成功的创意上，另一点是公司的确在进行创新。她说，关键是找到“经典的游戏模式”并且“使这些模式在各种情况下都有足够的诱惑力。”
She described watching her own children play in the sandbox and pretend to make food using old spice jars; out of that observation came a line of sand baking toys, like the cupcake making set. Costumes, too, have been around forever. The Melissa & Doug innovation was to develop “role-playing sets,” she said, like a movie director’s outfit with a megaphone and scripts. She said she asked herself: “What are things kids really like to do but don’t have the tools to make it a fully engaging activity?”
她描述说，她观察到自己孩子玩沙盒，假装用旧调味瓶做饭的场景；从那次观察中她开发了一系列用沙烘焙的玩具，类似做纸杯蛋糕的装备。还有经久不衰的服装道具。玛丽莎安德的创新在于开发“角色扮演套装”，她说，比如拿着扩音器和剧本的导演装备。伯恩斯坦太太说，她曾问自己：“哪些事情是孩子们非常喜欢做却又没有道具去做的呢？”
Some specialty retailers also complain that the widespread distribution of Melissa & Doug cuts into their business, but they nonetheless remain the bulk of the company’s 15,000 distributors.
一些专业零售商也抱怨玛丽莎安德遍布各地的经销商影响了他们的生意，但尽管如此，它们在公司1.5万家经销商中占的份额仍然很大。
Other retailers swear by the company.
其他零售商却极其信赖玛丽莎安德。
“People look at what they do as being educational, quality and lasting a long time,” said Sharon DiMinico, chief executive and founder of the Learning Express, a chain of 140 stores where Melissa & Doug has been voted “vendor of the year” in eight of the last 10 years.
“人们认为他们的产品有教育性、质量好且耐用，”玩具店Learning Express首席执行官兼创始人莎伦·蒂米尼克(Sharon DiMinico)说。Learning Express是一家运营140家连锁店的公司，玛丽莎安德在过去10年内八次被它选为“年度供应商”。
Ms. DiMinico, who has worked with the Bernsteins since nearly the beginning, sees how they complement each other. “Doug’s like a big kid,” she said. “Look at that house. It’s got his stamp all over it.” But “Melissa is the driving force; she’s the creative inspiration.”
蒂米尼克几乎从最开始就和伯恩斯坦夫妇合作，她明白他们之间可以取长补短。“道格就像个大小孩，”她说，“看看这个房子。充满了他的风格。但玛丽莎是推动力，她是公司创作灵感的源泉。”
Mrs. Bernstein has help, of course. The morning after market-testing the princess slippers on her daughter Esther, she came to work with notes. She made a beeline for Donna Thompson, a product manager whose desk was awash in prototypes for crayons, tiaras and costumes.
当然，伯恩斯坦夫人也有帮手。那天早上，在让女儿埃丝特进行了公主拖鞋的市场测试后，她写下了几条备注，然后去工作。她直奔产品经理唐娜·汤普森(Donna Thompson)那里，汤普森的桌子上摆满了蜡笔、冕状头饰和服装的模型。
“I know it’s late in the game,” Mrs. Bernstein said. “But the slippers seem really slippery.” Her daughter Sydelle, she added, “thought they looked like bedroom slippers.”
“我知道现在说有点晚了，”伯恩斯坦太太说，“但这些拖鞋好像真的很滑。”她补充说，她女儿悉德勒“觉得这看上去就像卧室穿的拖鞋”。
Ms. Thompson took in her boss’s comments and explained that, in terms of safety, her group had thought that if it put on a sole that was too sticky, it might catch and cause a child to trip.
汤普森考虑了老板的想法后解释说，从安全的角度出发，她的团队认为如果加上有粘性的鞋底，可能会使小孩步伐不稳而绊倒。
As for the look of the slippers, Ms. Thompson noted that they had received positive reviews in their usual market-testing: products under development are sent to a network of two dozen families. One was the household of Heather Candullo, a graphic designer at Melissa & Doug. And at this growing company, with about 2,500 products, Ms. Thompson’s next observation seemed to be the conversation-ender:
至于拖鞋的外观，汤普森说，在他们的常规市场测试中获得不少正面评价：公司把在开发的产品送到24个家庭，其中一个是玛丽莎安德的平面设计师希瑟·坎杜罗(Heather Candullo)家。在这个有大约2500个产品的成长型公司里，汤普森接下来的话似乎给这次谈话划定了结果：
“Heather’s kids loved them.”
“希瑟的孩子们就挺喜欢这些拖鞋。”