The most important political event of recent weeks was not the emergence of Donald J. Trump as the presumptive presidential nominee of the Republican Party but the election Sadiq Khan, the Muslim son of a London bus driver, as mayor of London.
最近几周最重要的政治事件，并非唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)一步步成为稳获共和党总统提名的人选，而是萨迪克·汗(Sadiq Khan)当选伦敦市长。他是穆斯林，也是一个伦敦公交司机的孩子。
Trump has not won any kind of political office yet, but Khan, the Labour Party candidate, crushed Zac Goldsmith, a Conservative, to take charge of one of the world’s great cities, a vibrant metropolis where every tongue is heard. In his victory, a triumph over the slurs that tried to tie him to Islamist extremism, Khan stood up for openness against isolationism, integration against confrontation, opportunity for all against racism and misogyny. He was the anti-Trump.
特朗普尚未赢得任何公职，但工党候选人萨迪克·汗大败保守党候选人扎克·戈德史密斯(Zac Goldsmith)，将要执掌世上最伟大的城市之一。在这座活力十足的大都市里，人们能听到来自全球各地的语言。萨迪克·汗的这场胜利，克服了试图将他与伊斯兰极端主义绑定到一起的诋毁之辞。面对孤立主义，他主张开放；面对冲突，他主张融合；面对种族主义和厌女症，他主张人人机会均等。简而言之，他是特朗普的反面。
Before the election, Khan told my colleague Stephen Castle, “I’m a Londoner, I’m a European, I’m British, I’m English, I’m of Islamic faith, of Asian origin, of Pakistani heritage, a dad, a husband.”
选举之前，萨迪克·汗告诉我的同事斯蒂芬·卡斯尔(Stephen Castle)，“我是伦敦人、是欧洲人、是大不列颠人、是英格兰人、信仰伊斯兰教、出身亚裔、是巴基斯坦人的后代、为人父、为人夫。”
The world of the 21st century is going to be shaped by such elided, many-faceted identities and by the booming cities that celebrate diversity, not by some bullying, brash, bigoted, “America first” white dude who wants to build walls.
在21世纪，塑造世界的将是这种多面的融合身份，以及鼓励多元的繁荣都市，而不是什么恃强凌弱、自以为是、偏执狭隘、主张修墙筑壁的“美国优先”白人男性。
It is worth noting that under the ban on Muslim noncitizens entering the country that Trump proposes, Khan would not be allowed to visit the United States. To use one of Trump’s favorite phrases, this would be a “complete and total disaster.” It would make America a foul mockery in the eyes of a world already aghast at the Republican candidate’s rise.
值得注意的是，按照特朗普提出的禁止非美国公民穆斯林入境的主张，萨迪克·汗将不能访问美国。借用特朗普自己爱用的一句口头禅，那样的话将是“彻头彻尾的灾难”。在本已因为这名共和党候选人崛起而惊恐不已的世人眼中，那样做将让美国沦为糟糕的笑柄。
Khan’s election is important because it gives the lie to the facile trope that Europe is being taken over by jihadi Islamists. It underscores the fact that terrorist acts hide a million quiet success stories among European Muslim communities. One of seven children of a Pakistani immigrant family, Khan grew up in public housing and went on to become a human rights lawyer and government minister. He won more than 1.3 million votes in the London election, a personal mandate unsurpassed by any politician in British history.
萨迪克·汗的当选之所以重要，是因为它证明，“欧洲在被伊斯兰主义圣战分子接管”的轻率结论是错误的。它突显出一个事实：恐怖主义行径的背后，隐盖了欧洲穆斯林群体千千万万不为人知的成功故事。萨迪克·汗出身于巴基斯坦移民家庭，有六个兄弟姐妹。他在公屋长大，后来成为人权律师、内阁大臣。在此次伦敦市长选举中，他赢得了逾130万张选票，成为英国历史上赢得个人选票最多的政界人物。
His election is important because the most effective voices against Islamist terrorism come from Muslims, and Khan has been prepared to speak out. After the Paris attacks last year, he said in a speech that Muslims had a “special role” to play in countering the terrorism, “not because we are more responsible than others, as some have wrongly claimed, but because we can be more effective at tackling extremism than anyone else.”
萨迪克·汗的当选之所以重要，还因为抗击伊斯兰派恐怖主义的最有力声音来自穆斯林本身，而他一直乐于发声。去年的巴黎袭击事件后，他发表演讲称，穆斯林在抗击恐怖主义方面要扮演“特殊角色”，而这“并不是因为我们比其他人要负有更大的责任，就像某些人发出的错误指责那样，而是因为在应对极端主义上，我们可以比其他人更加有效。”
Khan has also reached out to Britain’s Jewish community, vigorously disavowing the creeping anti-Semitism in Labour ranks that last month saw Ken Livingstone, a former London mayor, suspended from the party.
萨迪克·汗还主动接触英国的犹太群体，大力抨击工党高层当中悄然滋生的反犹倾向。正是因为这种反犹情绪，曾担任伦敦市长的肯·利文斯通(Ken Livingstone)上个月遭工党暂停党员身份。
As George Eaton observed in The New Statesman: “Khan will be a figure of global significance. His election is a rebuke to extremists of all stripes, from Donald Trump to Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, who assert that religions cannot peacefully coexist.”
正如乔治·伊顿(George Eaton)在《新政治家》杂志(The New Statesman)上撰文指出的：“萨迪克·汗将成为具备全球关注度的人物。他的当选是对各式各样的极端主义的反驳，无论是唐纳德·特朗普，还是阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi)。那些人认为，不同宗教无法和平共处。”
Trump as a politician is a product of American fear and anger above all. In the past several weeks, a U.C. Berkeley student has been escorted off a Southwest Airlines flight because he was heard speaking Arabic, and an olive-skinned, curly haired Italian Ivy League economist was taken off an American Airlines flight because he was spotted scribbling mathematical calculations that his seatmate found suspicious.
作为政客的特朗普首先是美国人忧虑与愤怒的产物。就在过去的几周里，加州大学伯克利分校(U.C. Berkeley)的一名学生被押送出了西南航空(Southwest Airlines)的一架飞机，因为有人听到他说阿拉伯语；褐色皮肤、卷曲头发的一名常春藤盟校的意大利裔经济学者被带出了美国航空的一架飞机，因为被人看见他涂写数学公式，邻座觉得他很可疑。
Trump — described to me by Norm Ornstein, the political scientist, as “the most insecure and ego-driven person in the country” — is the mouthpiece of this frightened America that sees threats everywhere (even in an Italian mathematician).
政治学者诺姆·奥恩斯坦(Norm Ornstein)对我说，特朗普是“全美最缺乏安全感、最以自我为中心的人”。他代言的，正是这种处处能看到威胁（哪怕是在意大利裔数学家身上）的犹如惊弓之鸟的美国。
When Trump declares, “America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration,” the rest of the world hears an angry nation flexing its muscles.
特朗普宣称，“美国优先将是我领导的政府压倒一切的重大课题。”听闻此言，全世界感受到的是一个耀武扬威的愤怒国家。
Khan’s rise, by contrast, is a story of victory over the fears engendered by 9/11. His victory is a rebuke to Osama bin Laden, the Islamic State, jihadi ideology of every stripe — and to the hatemongering politicians like Trump who choose to play the Muslim-equals-danger game. Khan has argued that greater integration is essential and “too many British Muslims grow up without really knowing anyone from a different background.”
相比之下，萨迪克·汗的崛起，则是克服9·11引发的恐惧之情的故事。他的胜利驳斥了奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)、伊斯兰国(Islamic State)、各式各样的圣战思想——还有特朗普这种故意玩弄“穆斯林等于危险”把戏的煽动仇恨的政客。萨迪克·汗提出，更大程度的融合十分重要，“有太多的英国穆斯林在成长过程中并不认识任何一个来自不同背景的人。”
Sigmund Freud wrote, “It is impossible to overlook the extent to which civilization is built upon a renunciation of instinct.” Donald Trump has written: “I have learned to listen and trust my gut. It’s one of my most valued counselors.” He recently said, “We must, as a nation, be more unpredictable.”
西格蒙德·弗洛伊德(Sigmund Freud)曾经写道，“文明在很大程度上是建立在对本能的放弃，这一点无法忽视。”而在唐纳德·特朗普笔下，“我学会了倾听和信任自己的直觉。这是我最珍视的参谋之一。”他还在近期表示，“我们作为国家，必须更加难以预测。”
Right.
好吧。
Put together an egotist, a bully, immense power and a taste for gut-driven unpredictability and you have a dangerous brew that could put civilization at risk. Those small fingers would have access to the nuclear codes if Trump was elected.
把自我中心、恃强凌弱、巨大的权力与对直觉驱动的不可预测性的青睐糅合在一起，一个或将威胁到人类文明的危险混合体诞生了。假如特朗普当选，他那小小的手指可是能接触到核按钮的。
In this context, Sadiq Khan’s victory is reassuring because he represents currents in the world — toward global identity and integration — that will prove stronger over time than the tribalism and nativism of Trump.
在这样的背景下，萨迪克·汗的胜利令人欣慰，因为他才代表了世界潮流——通往全球化的身份认同与相互融合。假以时日，事实将证明，这种潮流比特朗普的部族意识和本土主义要更强大。