In Britain, there are well over 14,000 real estate offices. In the Mayfair district of London alone, more than 30 agents handle the demands of their wealthy global clients. In Kensington, it is 50-plus. What else could a buyer want? The information is there and the service is free — after all, it is the seller who pays the commission.
英国有超过1.4万家的房地产公司，仅在伦敦市的梅费尔区(Mayfair) ，就有30多家房地产代理公司在处理全世界许多富有客户的需求，而在肯辛顿(Kensington)，这样的公司则多达50多家。那还有其他什么是买家想要的呢？房源信息就在那儿，购房服务也不收费——毕竟，支付佣金的人是卖家。
But the properties advertised in an estate agent’s window do not tell the complete story. There are more homes and apartments for sale than meet the eye in a sort of “secret” market.
但那些张贴于售楼公司橱窗上的房源信息，并不是故事的全部内容。在某个“秘密”的房地产市场上，还有更多的房屋和公寓等待着出售。
This is where Edo Mapelli Mozzi steps in. Mr. Mozzi offers a service that unlocks the door to properties that are for sale but not on the open market. As he explains: “An estate agent recently drove me around St. George’s Hill,” the gated enclave in Surrey, southwest of London, where properties average 5 million pounds, or $7.7 million. “He told me there were, in theory, only 12 properties on the market, but in fact, he said, he could show me 31.”
这就说到了埃多·马佩利·莫齐(Edo Mapelli Mozzi)。莫齐提供的服务是看房，他去看的都是待售房产，但没有列入公开的房地产市场中。他是这样的解释的：“最近，有位房地产代理人开车带我在圣乔治山(St. George’s Hill)绕了一回，”那里是伦敦西南郊萨里郡(Surrey)中一块设有门禁的飞地住宅区，房屋均价为500万英镑，即770万美元。“他告诉我，从理论上说，这里仅有12套房产在售，但实际上，他说，他可以给我看31套。”
Mr. Mozzi, managing director of the London-based buyer’s agency Banda Property, works off market — a low-profile world where money talks but discretion is key.
莫齐是伦敦一家购房代理公司Banda Property的总经理，但他的工作在地产市场之外——那是一个非常低调的世界，一切由金钱主宰，但行事极为审慎。
“Buyers increasingly want privacy, and they want to find a property fast,” said Mr. Mozzi, who began working as a buyer in 2007. “They haven’t got the time to register with several real estate offices, and they don’t want to spend three hours being driven around at the end of the day, peering at properties in the dark.
“买家们越来越注重隐私了，而且他们都希望能迅速找到一处房产，”莫齐说，他2007年开始了房产代购的工作。“这些人没有时间去各个房地产公司登记，也不想晚上花上三个小时摸黑开车去看那些房产。”
“Some people are reluctant to let their peers, professional or social, know they are looking for a property, and they don’t want the world to know about their wealth — or lack of it. Operating off market means they do not leave a digital footprint with images in agents’ windows and on property portals.”
“有些人不愿意让身边的人知道自己正在看房，不管是同事还是朋友，他们不希望别人知道自己有钱——或没钱。通过市场外的操作，他们可以不用留下数据记录，个人形象既不会出现在地产代理公司的橱窗上，也不会出现在物业门户网站上。”
How does he work? Mr. Mozzi — who says that Banda bought 63 percent off market in 2014, compared with 44 percent in 2013 — monitors the government-run Land Registry, which records the ownership of land and property in England and Wales, to see what might meet the client’s brief. For example, he can see that a house has been lived in for a certain number of years, consider that it might be coming onto the market and approach the owner.
那么他如何工作呢？莫齐说，Banda公司2014年购买了63%的市场外房产，相比之下，2013年的购买量为44%。他的工作是盯着由政府经营的土地注册局(Land Registry)，这家单位负责登记英格兰与威尔士的土地与房产所有权，他会看看其中是否有物业能达到客户的要求。例如，他会发现一栋房屋已经有人住了若干年，考虑到该房屋可能不久就要出售，他会去找到那位业主。
His 18-member staff keeps tabs on estate agents and property portals to see which of them sold a property some years ago in an area that interests the client. Banda then asks the agent to inquire whether the owners are ready to sell.
他的18名员工都密切注意着房地产代理公司与物业门户网站，看看哪家公司多年前在某个区域中曾经出售过该客户感兴趣的房产。然后，Banda公司会要求这家代理公司去询问业主是否愿意出售该房产。
What makes the buying agent so sought after is the short supply of properties. Competition in London is fierce; even after a slow year ending in January, prices have risen by 4.6 percent, according to the real estate company Knight Frank. Lonres, an online database of available properties in the city, says properties above £2 million are scarce. Chelsea has an average of only 19 properties on the market per month since August, according to the database; South Kensington has 12; and Notting Hill a mere six.
这家购房代理公司如此找房的原因，在于房地产物业的短缺。伦敦市的竞争非常激烈，据莱坊(Knight Frank)地产公司的数据，即便在一月份年终销售放缓的情况下，房价还是上涨了4.6%。伦敦市的一个待售房产在线数据库Lonres网站称，目前，价格在200万英镑以上的房产非常稀缺。据该数据库显示，切尔西区(Chelsea)自今年八月份以来，每月平均只有19处待售物业；南肯辛顿有12处；而诺廷希尔仅有6处。
Banda’s recent successes include helping a family end its 18-month search for an apartment in Kensington.
Banda公司近期的成功案例包括帮助一户人家结束了18个月的找房历程，为他们在肯辛顿找到了一套公寓。
“They had their eyes on one particular block,” said Mr. Mozzi, who charges 2 percent for finding the most expensive properties, though the rate declines pro rata. “Eventually our search team contacted all of the owners in the building, and a resident who had lived there for more than 20 years said he was ready to sell for £770,000.”
“他们看中了一条特别的街区，”莫齐说，他收取了2%的佣金，为他们找到了这套卖得最贵的公寓，虽然从佣金比例上看，这笔费率有所下降。“最后，我们的找房团队联系了这栋楼里的所有业主，其中有位住户已经在那里住了20多年，他说自己准备以77万英镑的售价出售这套房产。”
Nearly 80 percent of his clients are Londoners, with a mix of overseas buyers from countries like Italy, Greece and France, but Mr. Mozzi is seeing districts that were not on the radar as recently as three years ago become increasingly attractive. They include Battersea, Camberwell, Clapham to the south of the River Thames, and Kensal Green, north of Notting Hill.
他的客户约有80%都是伦敦人，还有一些海外的客户，来自意大利、希腊和法国等国家。莫齐发现一些三年前才刚刚成为找房目的地的街区，现在已经变得越来越有吸引力了。这些街区包括巴特西(Battersea)，坎伯韦尔(Camberwell)，泰晤士河南岸的克拉彭(Clapham to the south of the River Thames)和诺廷希尔北部的肯萨尔·格林(Kensal Green)。
Charles McDowell, one of the first buyer agents based in London, agrees that the market is spreading from the core, pushing out from Mayfair and Knightsbridge to Richmond in Surrey and Brixton.
伦敦最早的购房代理人之一查尔斯·麦克道尔(Charles McDowell)也认为，该市的房地产市场正在从核心地带扩散，已从梅费尔与肯辛顿区延伸到了萨里郡的里士满(Richmond)，还有布里克斯顿(Brixton)。
Mr. McDowell, who charges one and a half percent, insists that the market is still buoyant and has on his books a 4,400-square-foot first-floor apartment in Lennox Gardens, Knightsbridge, with a library and four bedrooms for £25 million and at the lower end, for £2.6 million, a mews house in Earls Court, with two bedrooms and a roof terrace.
麦克道尔认为该市场仍在上涨，他收取的佣金为1.5%，目前在奈茨布里奇(Knightbridge)的伦诺克斯花园(Lennox Gardens)中购买了一套面积4400平方英尺（约409平方米）的一楼公寓，带一间书房和四间卧室，价格2500万英镑，他还在低端市场中，以260万英镑的价格，购买了一栋位于厄尔斯考特(Earls Court)的马厩改建屋，带两间卧室和一个屋顶平台。
Alex Stroud, a former director of the leading British real estate agency Savills, operates as a personal shopper. He concentrates on prime London, such as Mayfair, Kensington, Knightsbridge and Holland Park, and works closely with the agents to identify the properties that best suit his clients.
英国房地产的龙头企业第一太平戴维斯(Savills)公司的前任主管亚历克斯·斯特劳德(Alex Stroud)，现在是一名私人购房顾问。他专注于伦敦市的首选房地产市场，例如梅费尔、肯辛顿、奈茨布里奇与荷兰公园(Holland Park)，并与一些地产代理人密切合作，找到最适合自己客户的房产。
“It’s staggering how much property is for sale — but how much of it is not very good,” Mr. Stroud said. “It may seem to be in the right location with nice trees and a communal garden, but I know which ones have lifts that don’t work, where the porter is drunk and where the service is poor.
“你会惊讶的发现，待售房产有那么多，而其中的不足之处也有那么多，”斯特劳德说。“那些房产可能看起来位置不错，绿化也很好，还带一座公用的花园，但我却知道哪些大楼的电梯坏了，哪些公寓的门卫醉醺醺的，又有哪些地方服务很差。”
“If I get a call from someone overseas, I can tell them which property will suit them,” he said. “They can’t afford the time to come over and take a taxi to look at several options, but I can find them the place that will suit them.
“如果有海外客户询问，我会告诉他们，什么样的房产最适合他们，”他说。“他们没时间赶到这儿来，搭上计程车去看看那几处房产，但我能为他们找到最适合的地方。”
“Because I know my onions, I can often negotiate a good price. For example I was able to get about £1.5 million off a penthouse in St. James’s Street, SW1, which is an area where prices above £12 million are not unusual.”
“因为我很熟悉这一行业，所以常常能谈出一个好价格。例如我可以把SW1区圣詹姆士街(St. James’s Street)的一套顶层豪华公寓价格砍掉大约150万英镑，在这个区域，1200万英镑的售价并非不同寻常。”
Mr. Stroud does not advertise — everything is by word of mouth.
斯特劳德不做广告——一切都靠口碑。
“If you were to register with one of the top real estate agents, I would be told which properties were for sale two or three weeks before you because many of the agents prefer to talk to me first. They know that I know exactly what the buyer is after and that a sale is more or less guaranteed.”
“即便你找了一两个最好的房地产代理人，我也会比你早两三个星期得知哪些房产正在出售，因为许多地产代理人都宁愿先告诉我。他们知道，我对买家要找的房产一清二楚，所以交易更有保障。”
But not always.
但也不总是这样。
“An American buyer I dealt with recently had set her heart on an apartment in 89 Cadogan Gardens, but I told her not to touch it. She complained to me that I had let it go, but I told her that it is built right over the underground and every time a train goes underneath the teacups rattle.”
“我最近打交道的一位美国买家很喜欢卡多根花园(Cadogan Gardens)89号的一套公寓，但我告诉她别去碰那套房子。她曾跟我抱怨不该就那么放弃了，但我对她说，那套公寓下面就是地铁，所以每次列车从下面开过的时候，屋里的茶杯就会叮叮当当震得直响。”