SUNBURY-ON-THAMES, England — One was an 18-year-old Iraqi orphan who was known to neighbors of his elderly foster parents as a troublemaker. The other was a 21-year-old from Syria who fled the civil war there and made his way via Egypt to London, where he found work at a fried-chicken shop.
英格兰泰晤士河畔桑伯里——一个是18岁的伊拉克孤儿，被年迈的养父母的邻居们认为是一个爱惹事的家伙。另一个是来自叙利亚的21岁青年，逃离那里的内战，经埃及来到伦敦，在一个炸鸡店工作。
On Monday, the first glimmers of information began to surface about the two young men who are suspects in the crude bombing of an Underground subway train Friday morning, in what authorities have called a terrorist attack.
周一，关于这两名年轻人的信息开始浮出水面。他们是周五上午一场地铁简易炸弹袭击案的嫌疑人，当局已将其定性为恐怖袭击。
The explosion injured at least 30 people, and although no one was killed, the episode briefly caused Britain to raise its terrorism threat to the highest possible level. The Islamic State said that a “detachment” of its fighters had carried out the attack, but authorities in Britain have declined to confirm that or provide details of the suspects or what motivated them.
爆炸至少造成30人受伤，虽然无人死亡，但英国很快把恐怖威胁提高至最高等级。伊斯兰国称，它的一个“分遣队”的战士实施了这次袭击，但英国当局拒绝确认或提供关于嫌犯及其作案动机的细节。
The two young men, who were arrested separately Saturday, are being held under a law that allows police to detain suspects without charge beyond the usual four-day limit.
这两名年轻男子是在周六分别被逮捕的，目前依据一项法律被拘禁，该法律允许警察在未经指控的情况下延长对嫌疑人的拘禁时间，超出通常的四天上限。
The arrests came as a shock in Sunbury-on-Thames, a middle-class suburb in Surrey, just west of Greater London, where the two men had stayed with foster parents, Ronald and Penelope Jones.
逮捕让泰晤士河畔桑伯里的人们十分吃惊，两名嫌疑人与养父母罗纳德和佩妮洛普·琼斯(Ronald and Penelope Jones)就生活在大伦敦西部这个中产阶级郊区。
The couple — he is 88 and she 71 — have been lauded for sheltering hundreds of young people, many from broken or troubled homes, over four decades starting in 1970. In 2009, they were named members of the Order of the British Empire, an honor conferred for “outstanding achievement or service to the community.” Queen Elizabeth II recognized their dedication as part of a 2010 ceremony at Buckingham Palace.
这对老夫妇中的丈夫现年88岁，妻子71岁。自1970年起的40多年来，他们收留了成百上千名年轻人，其中很多来自破碎或遇到困难的家庭，他们的行为受到了赞扬。2009年，他们获得大英帝国勋章(Order of the British Empire)，以表彰“对社区做出的杰出贡献或服务”。2010年，伊丽莎白二世女王在白金汉宫举办的典礼上表彰了他们的奉献。
On Saturday, police cordoned off the Joneses’ home in Sunbury-on-Thames and briefly evacuated the area around the house, warning neighbors that explosive materials might be in the house and its garden.
周六，警察用警戒线围住了琼斯在泰晤士河畔桑伯里的家，短暂疏散了房子周围的区域，警告邻居们爆炸材料可能就在这所房子里或它的花园里。
Police did not allow journalists near the Joneses’ house Monday, and the couple were said to be staying with relatives.
周一，警察不允许记者们靠近琼斯的房子，据说这对夫妇正住在亲戚家。
“They have an extremely good reputation, and there’s no suggestion that they were involved in this at all,” Ian Harvey, the leader of the Spelthorne Council, which represents the part of Surrey that includes Sunbury-on-Thames, said in a phone interview.
“他们的声誉极好，没人会怀疑他们参与其中，”斯佩尔索恩镇理事会(Spelthorne Council)的会长伊恩·哈维(Ian Harvey)在接受电话采访时表示。该理事会代表萨里郡包含泰晤士河畔桑伯里在内的一片区域。
Nicola Rider, 43, a neighbor who lives in the area that was cordoned off, called the Joneses “complete angels — the kindest and warmest people you will ever meet.”
现年43岁的妮古拉·赖德(Nicola Rider)住在被警戒线围起来的区域里，她说琼斯夫妇“是真正的天使，是你见过的最慈善、温暖的人”。
She added: “They have six kids of their own, but they have taken in and helped hundreds of abandoned children over the years.”
她还说：“他们自己有六个孩子，但这些年，他们收留和帮助了成百上千名被抛弃的孩子。”
Another neighbor, Rick Worth, 46, said the Joneses “weren’t the kinds of people that would complain about their children or the teenagers they looked after.”
另一名46岁的邻居里克·沃思(Rick Worth)表示，琼斯夫妇“不是那种会抱怨自己照看的孩子或少年的人”。
The 18-year-old was arrested around 7:50 a.m. Saturday in the departures area of the port of Dover, apparently while trying to flee Britain.
那名18岁的男子于周六早上7点50分左右在丹佛港出发区被捕，他显然是想逃离英国。
The 21-year-old was arrested at 11:50 p.m. Saturday outside Aladdin’s, a fried-chicken shop where he worked, in the outer London borough of Hounslow.
而那名21岁的男子是周六晚上11点50分在他工作的阿拉丁炸鸡店(Aladdin’s)外被捕的。该店位于伦敦郊区的豪恩斯洛镇。
His identity was confirmed by his brother — who is named Aladdin but has no connection to the restaurant — as Yahyah Farroukh. In an interview via the messaging app WhatsApp from his home in the Netherlands, Aladdin said their family’s bakery in Damascus, Syria, had been destroyed and that he had been detained and tortured by forces loyal to President Bashar Assad.
他的身份已被他的兄弟（名叫阿拉丁，但与炸鸡店没有关系）证实。他名叫亚耶·法鲁克(Yahyah Farroukh)。阿拉丁在荷兰家中通过即时通讯应用程序WhatsApp接受采访时表示，他家在叙利亚大马士革的面包房被忠于巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar Assad)的武装部队摧毁，他也曾遭到他们拘留拷打。
Aladdin said that Yahyah had fled to Egypt in summer 2013, and then made his way first to Italy and then to Britain.
阿拉丁说，亚耶2013年夏天逃到了埃及，然后设法到了意大利，后来到了英国。
“It is not possible after three years of study and work that Yahyah would bomb himself or get involved in such acts,” Aladdin said. “He was even looking for a girl to marry.”
“经过三年的学习和工作，亚耶不可能会从事自杀式爆炸袭击或参与这种行动，”阿拉丁说，“他正想找一个姑娘结婚呢。”
Yahyah Farroukh appears to have had two Facebook profiles, one of which seems to be aimed toward his family. One of his profile pictures shows him at a Lidl supermarket, and the bomb used in the attack appeared to have been placed into a white bucket, wrapped inside a Lidl bag.
亚耶·法鲁克似乎有两个Facebook账户，一个似乎是给他的家人看的。他的账户里有一张他在利德尔超市(Lidl)的照片，而袭击所用的炸弹似乎就是放在一个用利德尔超市的购物袋包裹的白桶里。
The Facebook pages offer no suggestions of extremism. Yahyah regularly posted the flag of the Free Syrian Army, a moderate, secular group of fighters opposed to the Assad government. At one point, he posted a video of Ahmed al-Kaseem, an anti-government singer. He was also a fan of singer-songwriters Ellie Goulding and Justin Bieber, and rapper and actor Wiz Khalifa.
他的Facebook页面没有任何极端主义迹象。亚耶经常发布叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)的旗帜，那是反对阿萨德政府的一个温和派世俗军事组织。他发过反政府歌手艾哈迈德·阿尔卡西姆(Ahmed al-Kaseem)的视频。他还是歌手兼词曲作者埃莉·古尔丁(Ellie Goulding)和贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)以及说唱歌手兼演员维兹·哈利法(Wiz Khalifa)的粉丝。
West Thames College, a school in the Isleworth section of Hounslow, said that Yahyah studied English there from December 2013 to June 2015.
位于豪恩斯洛镇艾尔沃思的西泰晤士学院(West Thames College)表示，亚耶从2013年12月至2015年6月在那里学习英语。
In an interview via Facebook Messenger, Mo Ashour, who attended West Thames College at the same time as Farroukh, remembered him as “a good man who doesn’t like any problems.”
曾与亚耶一起在西泰晤士学院就读的莫·阿舒尔(Mo Ashour)在通过Facebook Messenger接受采访时表示，亚耶是“一个不喜欢惹麻烦的好人”。
And Farroukh’s cousin Ahmed, who works at an Arab-food company in London, described him as “a respectable and quiet man” who was happy living in Britain and dreamed of becoming an engineer.
亚耶的堂兄弟艾哈迈德(Ahmed)在伦敦的一家阿拉伯食品公司工作，他说亚耶是“一个正派、平静的男人”，为自己能在英国生活感到高兴，梦想成为工程师。
Ahmed said he and his cousins “became refugees because of Assad.” And the brother, Aladdin, said his wife had lost relatives to the Islamic State.
艾哈迈德说，他和堂兄弟姐妹们“因为阿萨德成了难民”。亚耶的兄弟阿拉丁说，他妻子的一些亲戚被伊斯兰国杀害了。