A CNN host called President Trump a “man baby” and a piece of excrement. (He used a more profane term, and later apologized.) A guest on “Fox & Friends” proposed that Muslims in the United Kingdom be placed in internment camps, prompting an on-air disavowal from the hosts.
一名CNN主持人称特朗普总统是“巨婴”和排泄物（他用的词更肮脏，但随后道了歉）。“福克斯和朋友们”(Fox & Friends)节目的一名嘉宾建议英国将境内的穆斯林关进拘留营，促使节目主持人当场对这种说法表示谴责。
A Breitbart News writer argued on Twitter that “there would be no deadly attacks in the U.K. if Muslims didn’t live there,” generating angry replies. And Mr. Trump himself, in his first public comment about the attack in London on Saturday night, disseminated unconfirmed information from an unofficial source: The Drudge Report.
布莱巴特(Breitbart)新闻网站的一名撰稿人在Twitter上争辩说，“如果没有穆斯林住在英国的话，那里不会有致命的袭击”，引来了愤怒的回复。特朗普本人周六晚对伦敦发生的袭击首次公开发表评论，并在评论中散播了来自《德鲁奇报道》(The Drudge Report)的非官方的、未经证实的消息。
In the 24 hours after the deadly van and knife attack, the cycle of partisan broadsides and ideological combat that seems to dominate the media universe these days kicked into high gear.
这些日子里似乎主导媒体世界的党派猛烈攻击和意识形态斗争，在以面包车和刀为武器、导致多人死亡的袭击发生后的24小时里，更加紧锣密鼓。
News organizations turned against each other, with anchors on Fox News calling on CNN to punish its host Reza Aslan for his profane remarks about Mr. Trump in a Twitter post.
新闻机构变得相互敌对，福克斯新闻主持人呼吁CNN对其节目主持人礼萨·阿斯兰(Reza Aslan)在Twitter上发表对特朗普不敬的言论进行惩罚。
The president’s retweet of a Drudge headline — “fears of new terror attack,” it read, even as the nature of the assault remained unclear — prompted a rebuke of sorts from NBC Nightly News, whose Twitter account pointedly noted that its journalists would not relay the president’s retweet, “as the info is unconfirmed.”
特朗普转推了一条德鲁奇的大标题，内容是“新恐怖袭击的担忧”，尽管当时袭击的性质尚不清楚，这促使NBC晚间新闻(NBC Nightly News)发了像是批评的贴子，其Twitter帐户明确指出，记者不会转发总统的推文，“因为信息未经证实。”
That led to accusations of liberal bias, with the “Fox & Friends” co-host Abby Huntsman asking, “Can we not just come together?”
NBC的做法引来了自由派偏见的指责。“福克斯和朋友们”的联合主持人艾比·亨茨曼(Abby Huntsman)问道：“我们难道不能走到一起来吗？”
It was the kind of chain reaction that is increasingly commonplace in a deeply polarized political environment, where news organizations attract tribal followings, and where major events like the London attack can stoke fears and inflame emotions — from Mr. Trump on down.
这是在高度两极化的政治环境中越来越常见的那种连锁反应，新闻机构吸引着各自的部落追随者，像伦敦袭击这样的重大事件能激发从特朗普起的、自上而下地的恐惧和煽情。
Mr. Aslan responded with his angry posts after the president, in the immediate wake of the attack on Saturday, wrote on Twitter that his proposed travel ban was needed to prevent terrorism. Mr. Aslan, an Iranian-American writer and religion scholar who hosts a weekly show about faith and society for CNN, also described Mr. Trump as “an embarrassment to humankind.”
阿斯兰发的愤怒帖子是回应特朗普的推文。在周六的袭击事件发生后不久，总统在Twitter上写道，他提出的旅行禁令对防止恐怖主义必不可少。阿斯兰是伊朗裔美籍作家和宗教学者，他在CNN主持一个关于信仰和社会的每周一次的节目，他还把特朗普描述为“令人类蒙羞”。
That prompted expressions of outrage from right-wing news outlets like Breitbart News and the hosts of “Fox & Friends” on Sunday morning, who lamented his comment. CNN was already mired in an uproar over the comedian Kathy Griffin, a co-host of the network’s New Year’s Eve coverage, who posted a photograph in which she held a fake severed head meant to look like the president’s; CNN severed ties with Ms. Griffin last week.
这引起了右翼新闻渠道周日上午的愤怒表示，比如布莱巴特新闻、以及“福克斯和朋友们”的主持人，他们抨击了阿斯兰的言论。此前，CNN已经陷入了一场轩然大波，该新闻网新年除夕报道的联合主持人、喜剧演员凯西·格里芬(Kathy Griffin)发了一张照片，照片上，她手持一个假的、貌似砍下来的总统人头；CNN已在上周解除了与格里芬的关系。
“I should have used better language to express my shock and frustration at the president’s lack of decorum and sympathy,” Mr. Aslan wrote in a statement on Sunday. “I apologize for my choice of words.” (A spokeswoman for CNN added: “That kind of discourse is never appropriate.”)
“我本该用更好的语言来表达我对总统不得体和缺乏同情心而感到的震惊和沮丧，”阿斯兰周日在一份声明中写道。“我为我所用的语言道歉。”（CNN的一名发言人补充说：“那种言辞从来都是不合适的。”）
The backlash against Mr. Trump’s tweets, however, went beyond Mr. Aslan. Critics pointed to the president’s criticism of London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, noting that Mr. Trump had taken a quote from the mayor out of context to suggest that he was unconcerned about terrorism.
但是，对特朗普推文表示强烈反对的不只阿斯兰一人。评论人士指出，总统对伦敦市长萨迪克·汗(Sadiq Khan)的批评用了断章取义的手法，特朗普把伦敦市长的话从上下文中取出来引用，暗示市长对恐怖主义漠不关心。
There was also some disbelief in online comments that the president, who has access to up-to-the-minute national intelligence, chose to send a speculative item from The Drudge Report to his 31.5 million Twitter followers on an issue of international import. The Drudge Report, which is hugely popular with conservatives, counts Mr. Trump among its devotees: @Drudge_Report is just one of 45 Twitter accounts that he follows.
网上评论中也有表达不可思议的：能得到最新国家情报的总统，居然在一个具有国际意义的问题上，选择把来自《德鲁奇报道》的一条猜测转发给自己的3150万Twitter跟进者。《德鲁奇报道》深受保守派人士的欢迎，特朗普是其崇拜者之一：总统只关注了45个Twitter帐户，@Drudge_Report是其中之一。
On “Fox & Friends,” a reliably Trump-friendly morning show, there was little concern over the president’s tweets, but some criticism of Mr. Aslan’s remark, which the hosts described as evidence of an explicit bias against Mr. Trump in some quarters of the news media.
在“福克斯和朋友们”上，这个对特朗普来说可靠、友好的早间节目，对总统的推文不太关心，但对阿斯兰的言论表示不满，节目主持人把他的言论描述为部分新闻媒体对特朗普有明显偏见的证据。
It was not long until the “Fox & Friends” crew was coping with its own troubles.
但“福克斯和朋友们”的团队很快就有了自己要应对的麻烦。
One of the show’s guest commentators, Katie Hopkins of The Daily Mail, raised the prospect of rounding up Muslims in the United Kingdom and placing them in internment camps as a way of preventing future attacks. Another guest — Nigel Farage, the British political figure and “Brexit” advocate who is now a Fox News contributor — also mentioned the idea of internment.
节目请来的嘉宾评论员、《每日邮报》的凯蒂·霍普金斯(Katie Hopkins)建议英国考虑一种可能性，即把国内的穆斯林都抓起来，把他们关进拘留营，作为防止未来袭击的一种手段。另一位嘉宾奈杰尔·法拉吉(Nigel Farage)也提了拘留营的想法，法拉吉是提倡英国脱欧的英国政客，现在是福克斯新闻的供稿人。
Later in the broadcast, the “Fox & Friends” anchors paused for a formal denunciation of the statements, lest viewers be left with the impression that Fox was endorsing the idea.
在节目后来的部分，“福克斯和朋友们”的主持人打断了播出，正式声明谴责拘留营的说法，免得给观众留下福克斯赞同该想法的印象。
“On behalf of the network, I think all of us here find that idea reprehensible here at Fox News Channel, just to be clear,” a co-host, Clayton Morris, told viewers.
节目的联合主持人克莱顿·莫里斯(Clayton Morris)对观众说，“我代表台网说，我觉得，我们所有在这里的福克斯新闻频道人员一致认为，这个想法应该受到指责。”
Ms. Huntsman added, “It’s important to be said.”
亨茨曼补充说：“这么说很重要。”