Big Ben, the iconic clock in London that has kept time for 157 years, withstood two world wars and become a symbol of the British capital, will fall silent for several months as part of a much-needed refurbishment program that is projected to last for three years, the British government said on Tuesday.
大本钟，作为伦敦的标志性城钟，在兢兢业业工作了157年，经历了两次世界大战之后，将会沉寂数月。作为英国首都的标志性建筑，大本钟即将迎来长达三年的翻修。英国政府于周二（4月26日）公布了这一消息。
The problems facing Big Ben are profound: Maintenance teams have identified problems with the clock’s hands, mechanism and pendulum that threaten its ability to function properly, according to a Parliament statement. They also found leaks, erosion, severe rusting and cracked masonry in the tower itself, which does not meet fire safety guidelines.
据英国议会的一份声明，大本钟面临的困难重重。负责维修大本钟的队伍发现其钟摆、指针和器件均存在不同程度的问题，会影响其正常运转。他们还发现存在渗漏，腐蚀，严重生锈等一系列问题。钟塔的内部砖墙结构也有损坏，这些问题都有引发火灾的危险。
The government also said an elevator would be installed to improve access in the tower and complement its 334 stone spiral steps.
政府表示还将会在塔内新增一部电梯。塔内原先只有由334级台阶组成的旋转石阶。
The project will cost an estimated $42 million.
这一翻修工程预计花费为4200万美元。
While Big Ben is used as a nickname for the clock, strictly speaking, it is the main bell inside the clock, and it also often refers to Elizabeth Tower, at the north end of the Houses of Parliament. The clock as a whole is called the Great Clock and sits atop the tower.
大本钟其实是它的昵称。严格意义上来讲，在时钟里面是一个大鸣钟。这座塔又名伊丽莎白塔，坐落于英国国会大厦的北端。大本钟位于塔顶，又被称作伟大之钟。
The Keeper of the Clock, Steve Jaggs, said in a statement that the project would “balance value for money with Parliament’s custodial responsibility to the building as well as to those visiting and working in the Elizabeth Tower.”
守钟人史蒂夫·杰格表示，这一修复项目既是尽了国会对大本钟的保管指责，同时也是对那些访问及工作在伊丽莎白塔里的游客和工作人员的尊重和重视。
“This project will enable us to give one of Britain’s most famous landmarks the T.L.C. it so desperately needs and deserves,” he said.
他说：“这一翻修项目给予了英国最著名的地标建筑‘亲切的关爱’。这是恰如其分的，也是迫切需要的。”
The repairs are scheduled to begin in early 2017, and that means the bells will not toll for a while. (The government did not specify at which point during the project they would stop chiming.) It also means that the tower will be sheathed in scaffolding for three years, although the government has said that the clock will continue to keep time as long as it is running and that one of its four ornate faces will be visible at all times.
修复项目初步定于2017年的年初开工，这意味着大本钟将沉寂一段时间。（政府并没有明确表明翻修项目的哪段时间大本钟将息声。）这也意味着钟塔将会在长达三年的时间里布满施工脚手架。尽管政府表示大本钟仍会精确计时，并会确保它四面中的一面，一直不会被遮挡住。
What will not keep running, though, are popular tours of the tower, which will be canceled for the full duration of the project.
不过，那些计划前往大本钟参观的旅客恐怕得取消出行计划了。在整个翻修项目的时间里大本钟都不对游客开放。
It is not the first time that the clock has silenced its mighty bong. The bells stopped for roughly nine months in 1976 while repairs were made and again in 2007 for six weeks of maintenance, the government said.
政府表示，这并非大本钟首次沉寂不语。在1976年大本钟沉寂了约9个月，在2007年沉寂了6周之久，这两次停摆都是由于维修保养的缘故。
The last extensive conservation work at the tower was done between 1983 and 1985.
上次历时长久的钟塔维修是在1983到1985年间。
Big Ben is not alone in its disrepair. A report released last year cataloged a long list of structural woes plaguing the Parliament complex, of which the clock tower is a part, including leaky pipes, dangerously out-of-date wiring, asbestos and a rodent infestation.
大本钟年久失修的案子并不是个例。一份去年的报道曾罗列出一系列国会大厦中存在的建筑内构造问题，钟塔是其中之一，还涉及泄露的水管，危险的老旧电线，石棉问题以及鼠灾。
The price tag for those repairs was estimated at $6.2 billion. They are projected to begin in the early 2020s, the government said, and are separate from the refurbishment of the clock tower.
这些问题的修复预计要花费62亿美元。政府表示，修复项目将于2020年初启动，不包括钟塔的修复。
Tom Brake, a member of Parliament and a spokesman for the House of Commons Commission, said in a statement that the clock tower, a Unesco World Heritage site, was “a symbol of the U.K.’s democratic heritage.”
汤姆·布拉克，国会议员兼下议院委员会发言人，表示“钟塔是联合国教科文组织认定的世界文化遗产，是英国民主政治传统的象征。”
“We have a duty to ensure that it is safeguarded for future generations to appreciate, just as we owe it to our predecessors to restore their masterpiece to its former glory,” he said. “While these works are much needed in the short term, they will also ensure the long-term future and sustainability of Big Ben.”
“这是我们应尽的义务，保全前辈的杰作，再现往日荣耀，让后辈得以仰视。”“这些维修工作有着迫在眉睫的需求，需要尽快尽早完成，只有这样才能确保大本钟能够长久伫立，安全牢固。”