LONDON — Parts of this city have the outward signs of a budding high-tech scene. Run-down warehouses have been remodeled into gleaming office spaces. Some greasy diners have been transformed into trendy restaurants. And many wood-paneled pubs have become wine bars.
伦敦——这座城市的一些部分已经初步显露了高科技的表征。破败的仓库被改造成了闪闪发光的办公室。一些满是油污的饭馆则被改造成了时尚餐厅。许多木头墙板的酒馆也变成了酒吧。
Still, an important sign of legitimacy has been missing: a London start-up firm hitting gold on the public market.
然而，这里仍然缺乏高科技的一个重要标志：一家在公共市场上掘金的伦敦初创公司。
King.com, the maker of the popular Candy Crush game franchise, is trying to change that. And if the company is successful, it could help cement the city’s reputation as one of Europe’s top start-up communities.
很受欢迎的游戏《糖果粉碎传奇》(Candy Crush Saga)的开发商King.com正欲改变这一点。倘若它取得成功，就可望帮伦敦巩固欧洲顶尖创业园区的名声。
The company has filed to go public in the United States, and analysts expect a multibillion-dollar valuation. The move feeds expectations that more of the city’s leading start-ups, many of them clustered in East London, will mature into public companies.
这家公司已申请在美国上市，分析人士预计它的估值将达数十亿美元。此举愈发让人们相信，伦敦将有更多领先的初创公司发展为成熟的上市公司，这些初创公司有许多都聚集在伦敦东区。
“In the last 10 years, London has become the most mature of the European tech hubs,” said Harry Nelis, a London partner at the venture capital firm Accel Partners. “The hope is that some of the new generation of start-ups may start to look at going public in London.”
“过去10年中，伦敦已经成了欧洲最成熟的科技中心，”风投公司阿克塞尔合伙公司(Accel Partners)的伦敦合作伙伴哈里·内利斯(Harry Nelis)说。“新一代的初创公司有望开始在伦敦寻求上市。”
The British capital’s growing credibility in the technology industry is partly the result of government efforts to reduce the city’s reliance on financial services, which still dominate the local economy. Local lawmakers have invested more than $80 million to rejuvenate buildings into co-working and events spaces, attracting companies like Microsoft and I.B.M. to East London — or Tech City, as some local politicians call the area. Policy makers are also working with local start-ups to make it easier to hire international workers and to help fledgling firms to get access to London’s financial markets.
英国资本在科技行业的信誉之所以逐渐增加，部分是因为政府为减少该市对金融服务的依赖而采取了一些措施，金融服务仍在当地经济中占据主导地位。为了把建筑物改造成办公室和能够举办重大活动的地方，地方议员投资了8000万美元，意图把微软(Microsoft)和IBM之类的公司引到伦敦东区或“技术城”(Tech City)——这是当地一些政治人物对它的称呼。政策制定者还在与当地初创公司合作，希望能简化雇佣国际工人的手续，帮助起步阶段的公司进入伦敦金融市场。
Other cities in Europe, like Berlin, have budding tech scenes, but London has the benefit of its roots as a global financial center. In the last four years, the number of tech companies in East London has roughly quadrupled, to around 1,400, according to British government statistics. The city also attracts more venture capital than European rivals like Paris and Stockholm.
柏林等欧洲其他城市也有了高科技发展的苗头，但伦敦的优势在于，它原来就是全球金融中心。根据英国政府提供的数据，过去四年中，伦敦东区科技公司的数量几乎增加了三倍，达到了1400家左右。与巴黎和斯德哥尔摩等欧洲竞争对手相比，伦敦吸引的风险投资也更多。
Still, London’s technology sector remains in its infancy compared with Silicon Valley. In the first half of the year, London’s start-ups raised $351 million, less than 10 percent of the investment directed to companies in California, according to Dow Jones Venture Source.
尽管如此，与硅谷(Silicon Valley)相比，伦敦的技术行业仍处于婴儿期。道琼斯风险资源(Dow Jones Venture Source)表示，今年上半年，伦敦的初创公司共筹资3.51亿美元，连加州公司所获投资的10%都不到。
Though start-ups have set up across the city, the center of the action is in the neighborhood of Shoreditch, in East London. Amid art galleries and pop-up restaurants, local start-ups like the fashion companies Lyst and Farfetch and the financial tech firms TransferWise and GoCardless have taken space in converted warehouses and once-crumbling office buildings.
虽然初创公司已经在伦敦各处建立起来，但它们仍然集中在伦敦东区的肖迪奇附近。当地初创公司包括Lyst和Farfetch这样的时装公司，也包括TransferWise和GoCardless这样的金融技术公司，他们都把公司设在了经过改造的仓库和曾经破败不堪的写字楼里，与画廊和临时餐厅为邻。
One of the more successful companies so far is Mind Candy, a British online game and entertainment start-up aimed at children, which now has more than 80 million registered users worldwide. In the company’s office just south of Shoreditch and next door to a Google office, teams of designers, engineers and illustrators fill a space that looks as if it came from California. Parts of the colorful office are designed to resemble an enchanted forest, and a slide allows workers to descend between floors.
Mind Candy是迄今为止比较成功的公司之一。目前，这家针对儿童的英国网络游戏及娱乐初创公司在世界范围内拥有超过8000万的注册用户。该公司办公室位于肖迪奇南部，紧邻谷歌(Google)的办公室，设计师、工程师及插画师团队挤满了一个似乎是从加州搬来的办公空间。彩色办公室的各个部分设计得像是一个魔幻森林，员工可以通过滑梯下楼。
The company struggled before 2008, when it released Moshi Monsters, an online game that allows children to look after a pet monster and interact with others over the Web. Since then, Mind Candy has signed franchising agreements with companies including McDonald’s and Nintendo. Last year, Mind Candy reported a 60 percent increase in revenue, to $75 million. Now, the company is looking to expand its reach to the United States, according to the company’s founder, Michael Smith.
在2008年推出网络游戏莫希怪兽(Moshi Monsters)之前，该公司一直苦苦挣扎。儿童可以通过这款游戏照料一只怪兽宠物，并通过网络与其他人进行互动。游戏问世以来，Mind Candy已经与麦当劳(McDonald’s)和任天堂(Nintendo)等公司签订了特许经营协议。去年，Mind Candy报告称公司收益增加了60%，达到7500万美元。据公司创始人迈克·史密斯(Michael Smith)透露，该公司现在期待拓展美国市场。
But despite the growing number of start-up success stories in London, the city still faces challenges as it looks to compete with other European and international hubs.
然而，尽管伦敦初创公司的成功故事越来越多，展望与其他欧洲及国际科技中心的竞争态势时，这个城市仍然面临挑战。
Tech entrepreneurs in London complain that local real estate can be prohibitively expensive. Many property owners demand long leases for office spaces, which does not match the needs of start-ups, which can either grow or flop in a short period of time.
伦敦科技产业的企业家抱怨称，当地房价高得无法负担。很多业主要求长期租赁办公场所，这与初创公司的需求并不相符，因为它们可能会在短时间内看到成长或失败的结果。
To help lure and keep developers, small start-ups, larger tech companies like Google and the British government routinely run events across the city.
为了帮助吸引并留住开发者，小型初创公司、谷歌等大型技术公司以及英国政府定期在城市的各个地方举行活动。
One such event took place on an unseasonably warm night in late September, when a steady stream of mostly 20-somethings filed into a converted warehouse in grimy East London.
9月底一个异常温暖的夜晚，他们举行了一次此类活动。当时，川流不息的人群涌进了脏乱不堪的伦敦东区的一个改建仓库，大部分都是20来岁的人。
Organized by a group of start-up founders, the event brought together programmers and engineers from across the British capital to compete in a table tennis tournament that pitted 16 companies, including Facebook’s local staff, against one another.
活动由一些初创公司创始人组织，让英国首都各处的程序员和工程师聚在一起参加乒乓球比赛。共有16家公司参赛，其中包括Facebook在伦敦的工作人员。
Over five hours of competition, fed by free beer from a local brewery and music from a London D.J., the 64 players — sporting T-shirts emblazoned with their companies’ logos — were cheered on by more than 300 colleagues and friends.
在长达五个小时的比赛中，当地一家酿酒厂提供了免费啤酒，一名伦敦DJ带来了音乐，64名身穿带有公司标识的T恤的选手在300多名同事和朋友的鼓励下参加了比赛。
Part networking event, part sports tournament, the night offered members of London’s growing start-up community an opportunity to swap stories about work, while trying to outplay their counterparts at rival firms.
这个夜晚的活动一半是社交集会，一半是体育比赛，为伦敦不断壮大的初创企业团体的成员提供了一个机会，让他们一边交流工作故事，一边努力打败竞争对手的队员。
“Start-ups are always competitive,” said Alexander Will, the 29-year-old co-founder of Listora, an events publishing company, who helped to organize the tournament. “There’s a lot to gain from everyone being in one place getting to know each other.”
“初创公司总是很有竞争力，”活动发布公司Listora的联合创始人亚历山大·威尔(Alexander Will)说。“大家聚到一个地方来相互认识，会有很多收获。”29岁的威尔帮助组织了此次活动。