BIRMINGHAM, England — A 52-year-old man with a long criminal record who been had been investigated for ties to violent extremism carried out the deadly attack outside the British Parliament, the authorities announced on Thursday, as the Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the assault.
英国伯明翰——当局周四宣布，在英国议会大楼外发起致命袭击的凶手是一名有多项前科的52岁男子，当局曾经调查过他与暴力极端组织的关系。同时，伊斯兰国组织声称对这次袭击负责。
Details about the man, Khalid Masood, a native of England who recently lived in the city of Birmingham, emerged the day after the attack, which took the lives of a police officer, a British schoolteacher and an American tourist and injured more than 40 people.
这名男子名叫哈立德·马苏德(Khalid Masood)，出生在英格兰，近期住在伯明翰市，关于他的细节在袭击的第二天获得披露。这次袭击导致一名警察、一名英国教师和一名美国旅客身亡，40多人受伤。
“Yesterday, an act of terrorism tried to silence our democracy,” Prime Minister Theresa May told Parliament, addressing colleagues who a day earlier had been placed on lockdown. “We are not afraid, and our resolve will never waver in the face of terrorism.”
“昨天，恐怖主义行为试图扼杀我们的民主。我们无所畏惧，我们的决心，在恐怖主义面前绝不会摇摆不定。”首相特丽莎‧梅(Theresa May)对议会成员说。此前一天，这些议会同僚得到了封锁保护。
Masood had a record of convictions, stretching from 1983 to 2003, for assault, weapons possession and violations of public order. But he was not the subject of any current investigation, and “there was no prior intelligence about his intent to mount a terrorist attack,” the London police said.
马苏德在1983年至2003年期间曾多次被定罪，罪名涉及袭击、拥有武器和违反公共秩序。但他目前没有涉嫌任何调查，而且“没有关于他打算发动恐怖袭击的事前情报”，伦敦警方说。
In remarks to lawmakers, before the police identified Masood, May said the attacker was “a peripheral figure” whom MI5, Britain’s domestic counterintelligence agency, had examined for links to violent extremism. She added that he was not “part of the current intelligence picture,” that “there was no prior evidence of his intent or of the plot” and that “our working assumption is that the attacker was inspired by Islamist ideology.”
在警方确认马苏德的身份之前，梅向议员发表讲话时说。英国国内情报机构军情五处(MI5)在筛查暴力极端主义组织的联系人时，把这名袭击者作为“周边人物”审查过。她还说，他并没有“进入情报部门的视野”，“此前没有证据证明他的意图或计划”，而且“我们现在的假设是，袭击者是受到了伊斯兰主义意识形态的激发”。
Authorities emphasized that they thought the assailant had acted alone, and that they did not expect any further attacks.
当局强调，他们认为凶手是单独行事的，他们不认为会发生进一步的袭击事件。
The authorities raided six properties across the country on Thursday, detaining eight people in London and in Birmingham. On Hagley Road, a commercial street in Birmingham, several people were arrested on Wednesday night in a raid on an apartment above a Persian restaurant. It was not clear what connection they had to Masood.
当局周四突击搜查了全国的六个地方，在伦敦和伯明翰拘捕了八人。周三晚上，在伯明翰的商业街哈格利路，当局突袭了一家波斯餐厅楼上的一套公寓，逮捕了几人。目前还不清楚他们与马苏德有什么联系。
Officials on Thursday reduced the death toll from the London attack to four from five, including Masood. He used the rented vehicle to mow down scores of pedestrians on Westminster Bridge, killing two of them: Kurt W. Cochran, an American tourist in his 50s, and Aysha Frade, 43, a British teacher. He then proceeded on foot to the gates of Parliament, where he fatally stabbed a police constable, Keith Palmer, 48, before being shot dead by the police.
周四，官员将伦敦袭击事件中的死亡人数从五人减少到四人，其中包括马苏德。他使用租来的车辆，在威斯敏斯特大桥冲撞数十名行人，造成两人死亡，分别是50多岁的美国游客库尔特·W·科克兰(Kurt W. Cochran)，和43岁的英国教师艾莎·弗拉德(Aysha Frade)。然后他步行到议会大楼门口，在那里刺死了48岁的警察基思·帕尔默(Keith Palmer)，随后被警方击毙。