It’s a bird, it’s a plane — oh, wait, it’s Captain America.
那是一只鸟，不对，是一架飞机——哦，等一下，那是美国队长。
The costume looks different, of course, as does the looker (Chris Evans) squeezed into the form-fitting corporate brand. But, gee, it can be hard keeping track of all the men flying and fighting in the superhero cinematic universe. Next up is yet another Spider-Man movie, and then come the X-Men, and then the Guardians of the Galaxy, and then (again) the Avengers, whose numbers include Captain America. So, he’ll be back. Meanwhile, he has another movie to call his own, “Captain America: The Winter Soldier,” one that, like many others of its type, gets off to a kinetic start only to lose steam before blowing everything up.
当然，服装不一样了，俊男（克里斯·埃文斯[Chris Evans]饰）塞进合身的品牌服装里看起来也不同了。但是，天哪，关注所有在超级英雄电影世界里飞行打斗的男人是很难的。接下来有另一部《蝙蝠侠》(Spider-Man)电影，然后是《X战警》(X-Men)，《银河护卫队》(Guardians of the Galaxy)，然后（又是）《复仇者联盟》(Avengers)，这个联盟里也有美国队长。所以，他会回来的。与此同时，还有另一部专门关于他的电影——《美国队长2》(Captain America: The Winter Soldier)。和很多其他同类电影一样，它开头很活跃，但是在剧情高潮之前已经失去了活力。
It’s fun until it goes kablooey, when the directors, the brothers Anthony and Joe Russo, are first warming up this sequel and scratching their initials next to the Marvel logo. The ticklish, loose opener finds Steve Rogers (Mr. Evans), Captain America’s Everyman alter ego, running laps around the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool. He’s making such a good cartoonish time — he’s super in and out of costume — that he keeps lapping another runner while yelling, “On your left!” The laggard is Sam Wilson (the unfailingly charming Anthony Mackie), who becomes a down-to-earth friend and high-flying ally. (It’s nice to see talented American actors get some of the rewarding franchise action enjoyed by their British counterparts with Harry Potter.)
本来挺有趣的，直到突然出了问题：导演安东尼和乔·鲁索(Anthony and Joe Russo)兄弟想让这个续集升温，在漫威(Marvel)漫画的基础上添加自己的个性。这部电影开头有趣、松散，美国队长的另一个身份、普通人史蒂夫·罗杰斯（Steve Rogers，埃文斯饰）绕着林肯纪念碑的倒影池跑步。这一段很像动画片——不管穿不穿制服，他都很优异——他每次超过另一个跑步者一圈，就大喊：“我在你左边！”落后的那个人叫山姆·威尔逊（Sam Wilson，由永远充满魅力的安东尼·麦基[Anthony Mackie]饰演），他是一位脚踏实地的朋友和雄心勃勃的盟友（看到有才华的美国演员参与报酬丰厚的系列动作大片挺让人高兴的，反正有才华的英国演员们也喜欢参演《哈利·波特》[Harry Potter]这样的大片）。
As with every new chapter in such series, introductions must be made in “The Winter Soldier” so that nonenthusiasts can meet the team members and grasp their place in this cosmos. Here, these include Bucky Barnes (a good Sebastian Stan), Natasha Romanoff a.k.a. Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) and Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), who run S.H.I.E.L.D., the spy agency that here gives the movie its topical gloss. Kevin Feige, who runs Marvel Studios, has said that the Russos were hired as directors “because they loved our explanation that we really want to make a ’70s political thriller masquerading as a big superhero movie.” That’s the idea anyway, which explains why Robert Redford, the star of ’70 paranoid classics like “Three Days of the Condor,” plays Alexander Pierce, a S.H.I.E.L.D. official.
像这个系列的每部新片一样，《美国队长2》也必须先进行一些介绍，好让非热心观众与团队成员们见面，了解他们在这个世界里的地位。他们包括巴基·巴恩斯（Bucky Barnes，塞巴斯蒂安·斯坦[Sebastian Stan]饰），娜塔莎·罗曼诺夫(Natasha Romanoff)，也就是黑寡妇（斯嘉丽·约翰逊[Scarlett Johansson]饰），以及尼克·弗瑞（Nick Fury，塞缪尔·L·杰克逊[Samuel L. Jackson]饰）。最后这位是神盾局的主管，这个情报机构给影片蒙上了时事片的假象。漫威影业的执行官凯文·菲格(Kevin Feige)说，请鲁索兄弟导演本片是“因为他们很喜欢我们的想法，我们真正想拍的是一部伪装成超级英雄大片的70年代政治惊悚片”。这就能解释为什么请主演过《秃鹰72小时》(Three Days of the Condor)等多部70年代经典悬疑片的罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)扮演神盾局官员亚历山大·皮尔斯(Alexander Pierce)。
The Russos have directed a few other movies, including “Welcome to Collinwood” (2002), a redo of the 1958 Italian satire “Big Deal on Madonna Street” that was produced by Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney. That movie didn’t go anywhere, but, having been put on the industry map with that kind of patronage, it’s no surprise that the brothers went on to have a busy decade in television, working as directors and sometimes executive producers for the smart sitcom likes of “Arrested Development” and “Community.” In between, they also directed another movie, “You, Me and Dupree.” It was a dud, but it didn’t matter. In the magical world of big-screen entertainment, some guys get all the breaks and also the keys to the studio gate, meaning a franchise like this.
鲁索兄弟导演过其他几部影片，包括《欢迎光临克林坞》(Welcome to Collinwood, 2002)，翻拍过1958年的意大利讽刺影片《圣母街上的大人物》(Big Deal on Madonna Street)，后者的制片人是史蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)和乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)。那部电影没什么特色，但是由于制片人名头大，被列为电影业的重要影片，因此鲁索兄弟在之后的十年里在电视圈十分活跃，担任一些热门情景喜剧的导演或者执行制片人，比如《发展受阻》(Arrested Development)和《废柴联盟》(Community)。其间，还导演了另一部影片——《同居三人行》(You, Me and Dupree)。这部影片不成功，但是没关系。在大银幕娱乐的神奇世界里，有些人遇到了所有的挫折，但是也得到了电影公司大门的钥匙，比如这样的漫画改编系列大片。
Given how little creative wiggle room there is in properties like “The Winter Soldier,” it’s a minor triumph that the Russos imprint any personality on the movie, which is less a stand-alone work than a part of an ever-expanding multimedia enterprise. The directors make their presence felt largely in the first half when they’re emphasizing Steve’s humanity, whether he’s in costume or not. That’s partly the point of his introductory race around the reflecting pool: He runs like the wind, but he also makes you laugh. This emphasis on the human also spills over into some exciting, smartly staged and shot action sequences, including choreographed fights in which the entire bodies of the performers remain visible in the frame and aren’t dissected by the camera and editing.
像《美国队长2》这样的电影几乎没有发挥创造力的余地，但是鲁索兄弟还是给它打上了个性印记，这是个小小的胜利。它不是一个单独的工作，而是一个不断扩大的多媒体事业的一部分。两位导演主要在前半部分表现自己的个性，他们强调史蒂夫的人性——不管穿不穿制服。开场时他沿着倒影池跑步也是为了表现这一点：他跑得像风一样快，但是他也让你大笑。这种对人性的强调也渗透到一些激动人心的、表演和拍摄都很精彩的动作片段中，包括精心设计的打斗戏，演员们的整个身体都出现在屏幕上，没有被摄像机或剪辑分开。
“The Winter Soldier” becomes progressively less enjoyable once the plot thickens and a menace looms, as Fury moves one chess piece, while Pierce moves another. Captain America doesn’t move much, beyond cars and debris. However appealing, Mr. Evans remains a recessive screen presence, and while it may be a relief that Captain America isn’t angst-ridden, he’s blandly well adjusted for a guy who, in his last movie, emerged from a decades-long deep freeze. Comic-book movie directors have to sell the prepackaged goods while trying to capture — and maybe redefine, as Christopher Nolan did with Batman — a superhero’s essence. And they have to do so without boring everyone who could not care less why a crusader went dark as night or that he died only to be reborn. But what if he’s kind of dull?
随着情节更复杂，威胁更逼近，《美国队长2》变得不那么有趣了，弗瑞走一步棋，皮尔斯再走一步棋。美国队长却没什么动静，除了在车里和废墟堆里。不管多么迷人，埃文斯仍然隐藏在幕后。可能让人欣慰的是，美国队长没有充满焦虑，而是很好地适应了自己的新身份——在上一部影片中这个人物从几十年的冰封中解脱出来。漫画改编影片的导演必须把预先包装好的商品卖出去，同时努力充分表现、也许是重新定义一位超级英雄的精髓，就像克里斯托弗·诺兰(Christopher Nolan)重新定义蝙蝠侠那样。他们必须这样做，而且不能让任何观众感到乏味，观众们才不管一位圣战者为什么变得这么黑暗，或者为什么他死去只是为了重生。但他要是沉闷乏味那又该怎么办？
Heresy! Yet one of the problems with Captain America, who was introduced in 1941, is that he didn’t cross over into the mainstream until three years ago with “Captain America: The First Avenger.” Directed by Joe Johnston, who wisely kept the irony in check, “The First Avenger” hit the origin-story marks by tracing the metamorphosis of a 90-pound weakling into a World War II hero while showing that Mr. Evans could wear the suit and throw a punch. It was amusing, old-fashioned and ponderous, just like its protagonist. The sequel, which was also written by Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, suffers from some routine blockbuster sins, including an excess of plot. But it, too, doesn’t make the case on screen for why Captain America should have been taken out of mothballs.
异端！美国队长这个形象是1941年创作出来的，问题是他一直没有成为主流，直到三年前《美国队长1》(Captain America: The First Avenger)上映。该片由乔·约翰斯顿(Joe Johnston)导演，他巧妙地控制住了这个讽刺，抓住了最初故事的关键，追述了一个90磅的虚弱的人如何变成了“二战”英雄，展现出埃文斯能够穿上制服，挥拳猛击。这部电影有趣，老派，沉重，就像它的主人公一样。续集还是克里斯托弗·马库斯(Christopher Markus)和斯蒂芬·麦克菲利(Stephen McFeely)写的，具有重磅大片的常见问题，比如情节过多。但它还是没有解释清楚为什么美国队长必须被解除冰封。
Despite Mr. Evans’s stated lack of passion for playing super-characters like this one and despite the genre’s creeping exhaustion, Captain America seems likely to keep running and jumping. Unlike the James Bond movies, which have dribbled out fairly slowly or a series like Harry Potter, which has a finite number of exploitable titles, there appears to be no end in sight when it comes to superhero movies. Warner Bros. has introduced Batman twice in separate franchise cycles and Sony has done the same, at a faster clip, with Spider-Man. In other words, superhero stories have become, or at least some would claim, the Hollywood equivalent of, say, Shakespeare: a well that they return to again and again to reboot, remake, redesign and resell until death (ours, the art’s, the planet’s) do us part.
尽管埃文斯明显缺乏扮演这样的超级英雄角色的热情，而且这个题材正在慢慢衰落，但是美国队长似乎很可能会继续活跃下去。不像007系列电影——它扩展得非常缓慢；也不像哈利·波特系列——它可以挖掘的主题有限，超级英雄电影似乎没有尽头。华纳兄弟公司分别用不同的系列两次推出蝙蝠侠，索尼公司也一样，只不过推的是蜘蛛侠，速度更快。换句话说，超级英雄的故事已经成为——至少被某些人认为是——好莱坞的莎士比亚戏剧：它像一口井，好莱坞的电影公司不断从中挖掘素材，重新启动，重新制作，重新设计，重新销售，直到死亡（人类、艺术或地球的灭亡）把我们分开。