President Obama’s choice of a replacement for the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is coming down to a battle between the California girls and the Rubin boys.
奥巴马总统对美国联邦储备委员会（Federal Reserve，简称美联储）主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)继任者的选择，正在变成加利福尼亚女孩和鲁宾(Rubin)派男孩之间的角力。
Janet L. Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairwoman, is one of three female friends, all former or current professors at the University of California, Berkeley, who have broken into the male-dominated business of advising presidents on economic policy. Her career has been intertwined with those of Christina D. Romer, who led Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers at the beginning of his first term, and Laura D’Andrea Tyson, who held the same job under President Clinton and later served as the director of the White House economic policy committee. But no woman has climbed to the very top of the hierarchy to serve as Fed chairwoman or Treasury secretary.
美联储女性副主席珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)是三位女性挚友中的一位，她们都曾是，或者仍是，加利福尼亚大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的教授，并闯入了男性主宰的为总统提供经济政策建议的圈子。耶伦的职业生涯一直与克里斯蒂娜·D·罗默(Christina D. Romer)和劳拉·丹德烈亚·泰森(Laura D’Andrea Tyson)紧密相连，在奥巴马第一个任期的初期，罗默执掌总统的经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)，而泰森则在克林顿(Clinton)任期内担任过相同的职务，之后她曾任白宫的经济政策委员会主任。不过，迄今还没有女性登上这个等级体系的最高位，成为美联储女主席，或女财长。
Ms. Yellen’s chief rival for Mr. Bernanke’s job, Lawrence H. Summers, is a member of a close-knit group of men, protégés of the former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who have dominated economic policy-making in both the Clinton and the Obama administrations. Those men, including the former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Gene B. Sperling, the president’s chief economic policy adviser, are said to be quietly pressing Mr. Obama to nominate Mr. Summers.
劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)是耶伦接替伯南克职位的主要对手，萨默斯是一个男性小圈子的一员，其成员都是前财政部长罗伯特·E·鲁宾(Robert E. Rubin)的门生，他们在克林顿政府和奥巴马政府时期都主导了经济决策。这些人，包括前财长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)和总统的首席经济政策顾问吉恩·B·斯珀林(Gene B. Sperling)，据悉正悄悄敦促奥巴马提名萨默斯。
The choice of a Fed chair is perhaps the single most important economic policy decision that Mr. Obama will make in his second term. Mr. Bernanke’s successor must lead the Fed’s fractious policy-making committee in deciding how much longer and how much harder it should push to stimulate growth and seek to drive down the unemployment rate.
选择美联储的主席，也许是奥巴马在第二个任期内最重要的经济政策决定。伯南克的继任者必须领导美联储意见不一的政策制定委员会，决定其刺激增长、并寻求压低失业率的努力还要持续多久、力度多大。
Ms. Yellen’s selection would be a vote for continuity: she is an architect of the Fed’s stimulus campaign and shares with Mr. Bernanke a low-key, collaborative style. Mr. Summers, by contrast, has said that he doubts the effectiveness of some of the Fed’s efforts, and his self-assured leadership style has more in common with past chairmen like Alan Greenspan and Paul A. Volcker.
选择耶伦将意味着选择连续性：她是美联储刺激行动的设计师之一，她和伯南克一样为人低调、愿意合作。与此形成反差的是，萨默斯已表示，他对美联储某些努力的有效性感到怀疑，他那种自信的领导风格和美联储前主席艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)及保罗·A·沃尔克(Paul A. Volcker)更相似。
But the choice also is roiling Washington because it is reviving longstanding and sensitive questions about the insularity of the Obama White House and the dearth of women in its top economic policy positions. Even as three different women have served as secretary of state under various presidents and growing numbers have taken other high-ranking government jobs, there has been little diversity among Mr. Obama’s top economic advisers.
不过，这个选择之所以在美国政坛搅起阵阵不安，也是因为它重燃了一些长期存在的敏感问题，即奥巴马主政的白宫高高在上，仿佛与外界隔绝，而且几乎没有女性担任最高层的经济政策职务。即使已有三名女性在历届总统手下担任过国务卿，而且有越来越多的女性担任其他高级政府职务，可奥巴马的顶级经济顾问团队依然性别单一。
“Are we moving forward? It’s hard to see it,” said Ms. Romer, herself a late addition to Mr. Obama’s original economic team, chosen partly because the president wanted a woman.
罗默说，“我们有进步吗？我很难看出这一点。”她是很晚才加入奥巴马最初的经济团队的，而选她的部分原因就是，总统需要一名女性。
She said she viewed the choice of the next leader of the Fed as a test of the administration’s commitment to inclusiveness. “Within the administration there have been many successful women,” she said. “There are lots of areas where women are front and center, where women are succeeding and doing very well. Economic policy is one where they’re not.”
她说，在她看来，对下一任美联储主席的选择，是对奥巴马政府的包容性承诺的考验。她说，“在奥巴马政府内，有很多成功的女性。女性在许多领域都处于前沿和中心位置，她们在这些领域正取得成功，做得很不错。经济政策领域的情况却不是这样。”
Supporters of Mr. Summers dismiss the idea that gender is a factor in the decision. They say that they simply regard him as the best person for the job. They point to the fact that he has served in both of the other top economic policy positions — as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and as chief economic policy adviser to Mr. Obama — which makes him a known quantity who has demonstrated an ability to respond effectively to financial crises.
对于性别应当是人选决策的一个因素的看法，萨默斯的支持者不屑一顾。他们说，他们只是认为，萨默斯是这一职务的最佳人选。他们指出，萨默斯担任过另外两个最高经济政策职务：克林顿政府时期的财长，以及奥巴马的首席经济政策顾问，这些经历使他成为一名为人熟知的人物，不止一次展现出有效应对金融危机的能力。
Ms. Yellen was widely seen as the front-runner to succeed Mr. Bernanke, but that appears to have reflected an absence of information about the views of Mr. Obama and his closest advisers. As word circulated in recent days that the president was seriously considering Mr. Summers, Ms. Yellen’s supporters have rushed forward to bolster her candidacy.
耶伦曾被广泛视为伯南克继任候选人里的领先者，不过，这种看法似乎反映了持这种观点的人并不了解奥巴马及其身边小圈子的思路。近日，随着总统在认真考虑提名萨默斯的消息传开，耶伦的支持者纷纷放话，支持她获得提名。
“It would be great to have a woman, the first woman chairman of the Fed, no question about it,” Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, told Bloomberg Television on Thursday. “She’s extremely talented. It’s not just that she’s a woman.”
众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州众议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)周四对彭博电视台(Bloomberg Television)说，“能迎来一名女性、美联储的第一位女主席，将是很棒的，这一点毫无疑问。她极具才华。支持她不仅仅是因为她是一名女性。”
Ms. Pelosi said that she also thought Mr. Summers was a qualified candidate.
佩洛西说，她同时认为，萨默斯也是一名合格的候选人。
On Thursday, Senate Democrats were rallying support for Ms. Yellen, with about a third of the 54 members of the caucus signing a letter backing her candidacy.
周四，参议院民主党人齐聚一堂为耶伦争取支持，在党团会议的54名成员中，有三分之一签署了一封信，支持她获得提名。
Mr. Summers’s supporters are making less noise in public, partly because some of his primary advocates are inside the White House, while Ms. Yellen’s primary advocates mostly appear to be on the outside looking in.
萨默斯的支持者较少公开为他造势，这部分是因为，他的一些主要支持者是白宫圈内人，而大多数耶伦的主要支持者似乎是圈外人。
Ms. Yellen declined to comment through a Fed spokeswoman. Mr. Summers did not respond to a request for comment.
耶伦拒绝通过美联储女发言人置评。萨默斯没有回应记者的置评请求。
Mr. Summers, 58, returned to his job as an economics professor at Harvard after leaving the Obama administration, but he has visited the White House at least 14 times in the last two years. The logs record only one visit by Ms. Yellen, who is 66. That is not unusual for a top Fed official in Ms. Yellen’s position — her predecessors also spent little time at the White House — but it is significant for a president who has often placed a premium on nominating people he knows.
现年58岁的萨默斯在离开奥巴马政府之后，回到哈佛大学(Harvard)担任经济学教授，不过，过去两年里，他至少拜访了白宫14次。66岁的耶伦只在白宫日志上留下一次到访记录。对于身处耶伦这个职位的美联储高官来说，这并不出奇，她的前任们在白宫所花的时间也极少，不过，奥巴马常常倾向于提名自己认识的人，对于这样一位总统而言，多往白宫跑几趟就是有份量的事了。
It also suggests that the administration has not tried to groom Ms. Yellen for a promotion. Mr. Bernanke, by contrast, was plucked from his job as a Fed governor to work as chairman of President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers before being nominated as Fed chairman.
这还似乎说明，奥巴马政府没有试图培养、提拔她。而伯南克在被任命为美联储主席前，曾从美联储理事晋升为布什总统的经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)主席。
For years, economic policy making has been dominated by a small, close-knit group of men who have known one another since the Clinton administration, if not before. In addition to Mr. Summers, Mr. Geithner and Mr. Sperling, the group includes Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew; Daniel Tarullo, a Fed governor who has taken a leading role on financial regulation; and Jason Furman, currently nominated to be the head of the Council of Economic Advisers.
多年来，经济政策的制定一直由一个男性的小圈子主导着，他们从克林顿主政时期就相互认识——如果不是更早认识的话。除了萨默斯、盖特纳及斯珀林外，这群人还包括财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)、在金融监管方面扮演重要角色的美联储理事丹尼尔·塔鲁洛(Daniel Tarullo)，以及现在被提名出任经济顾问委员会主席的贾森·弗曼(Jason Furman)。
Numerous current and former administration officials have described the world as cloistered. A series of women who have worked alongside those men have ended their tenures saying that they felt excluded and ignored. Recent examples include Sheila C. Bair, who ran the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation during the financial crisis; Elizabeth Warren, who led the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau but was passed over for nomination as its first director in favor of a deputy, Richard Cordray; and Ms. Romer, who left the administration in 2010.
奥巴马政府的很多现任及前任官员都形容这是一个与外界隔绝的世界。几名曾与这个男性小圈子共事的女性都在结束任期的时候称，她们觉得自己受到排挤，被忽视。最近的例子包括，在金融危机期间执掌联邦存款保险公司(Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation)的希拉·C·贝尔(Sheila C. Bair)，牵头组建消费者金融保护局(Consumer Financial Protection Bureau)、却没有获得首任局长提名的伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)——获得该职位提名的是一名副手，理查德·科德雷(Richard Cordray)，以及于2010年离开奥巴马政府的罗默。
Several former administration officials, who spoke about personnel policy only on the condition of anonymity, strongly disputed the idea that the White House was institutionally sexist, that Mr. Obama did not value the promotion of women or that women were excluded because of their gender.
多名要求匿名的奥巴马政府前任官员在谈到人事政策时，强烈驳斥这样一些看法，即白宫在制度上是性别歧视的，奥巴马不重视提拔女性，或者女性因为她们的性别而受到排挤。
But they acknowledged that women on the economic team had tended to hold advisory roles, rather than policy-making roles. They also said that women tended to be further to the left than the more centrist Rubinites that have generally prevailed in policy debates.
但他们承认，经济团队中的女性成员往往扮演顾问角色，而不是政策制定角色。他们还表示，与比较中间派的鲁宾派(Rubinites)相比，女性往往偏左一些。在政策辩论中，占上风的通常是鲁宾派。
Along with the Rubinite network of men, women in the Democratic economic policy world have created an informal network of their own over the last 20 years. Ms. Tyson, Ms. Romer and Ms. Yellen are especially close, calling one another for advice on navigating the world of White House politics and talking economic shop.  
在鲁宾派的男性结成关系网的同时，民主党经济政策圈子中的女性在过去20年里也建立了一个属于自己的非正式关系网。泰森、罗默及耶伦走得特别近，她们在应对白宫政治和发表经济观点时，往往会互相打电话征求意见。
Officials with knowledge of the process said the president’s comfort with the candidate, concerns about how well he or she would manage the Fed’s powerful Open Market Committee and deal with the market and Wall Street would be the most important factors in his decision.
了解提名进程的官员表示，总统与候选人打交道时自在与否，他或她在管理美联储掌握实权的公开市场委员会(Open Market Committee)及应对市场和华尔街方面会有何种表现，将是奥巴马决策过程中的最重要因素。
“It’s an embarrassment of riches,” said Jared Bernstein, a former Obama administration economist who spoke at length of the brilliance of both candidates. “He’s weighing who would do the best job at a sensitive time, and the differences here are nuanced.”
“这种情况属于富人的尴尬境地，”奥巴马政府前经济学家杰瑞德·伯恩斯坦(Jared Bernstein)表示。他对两位候选人的才华都赞不绝口。“他在掂量谁能在一个敏感时期最出色地履行职责，而两人在这方面的差别只是非常细微的。”