Tumbling stock, bond and commodity prices around the world are demonstrating just how reliant the global economy has become on the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve.
放眼整个世界，急剧下跌的股票、债券和商品价格正在向我们表明，全球经济已经对美联储的货币政策产生了多么严重的依赖。
In the weeks since the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first indicated that the central bank might start to pare back its support for the economy, markets in Asia, Europe and Latin America have fallen even more sharply than those in the United States, threatening economic growth in many countries.
美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)首次示意央行可能会开始削减对美国经济的支持力度之后，几周以来，亚洲、欧洲和拉美市场的跌势甚至超过了美国，给很多国家的经济增长带来了威胁。
While leading market measures in the United States have declined 4 percent over the last month, an index of the world’s stock markets has slumped more than 6 percent.
美国的主要市场指标在过去一个月中下降了4%，全球股市的指数则暴跌了超过6%。
“The Fed isn’t just the U.S.’s central bank. It’s the world’s central bank,” said Mark Frey, the chief strategist at the Cambridge Mercantile Group.
“美联储不只是美国的央行，”剑桥商业集团(Cambridge Mercantile Group)的首席策略师马克·弗雷(Mark Frey)说。
The selling picked up in markets around the world on Thursday, a day after Mr. Bernanke’s latest comments on the Fed’s plan to wind down the stimulus. While the reason for the shift by the Fed is good — a strengthening of the recovery in the United States — investors are nervous that the global economy may not be ready.
全球市场在周四出现抛售，此前一天，伯南克发表最新言论，称美联储计划放缓刺激措施。美联储转变策略的理由很充分——美国经济的复苏势头已经增强——但投资者担心，全球经济可能还没有做好准备。 
The prospect of slowing economic growth and rising interest rates set off waves of volatile selling on markets around the world. In the United States, the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.5 percent on Thursday, its steepest one-day decline since November 2011. Treasury prices also slumped, driving yields, which move in the opposite direction, to touch their highest levels in nearly two years.
经济增长减缓的前景和增高的利率在全球市场引发了一波波猛烈抛售。在美国，作为基准的标准普尔500股指(Standard & Poor's 500-stock)在周四剧跌2.5%，这是自2011年11月以来的最大的单日跌幅。国债价格也有所下跌，导致和价格成反比的收益率达到了将近两年来的最高水平。
The yield on the 10-year Treasury — a benchmark for mortgages and other consumer rates — rose as high as 2.47 percent before settling at 2.42 percent. Gold, once a favorite of investors, slid to two-and-a-half-year lows.
10年期国债的收益率——这是抵押贷款和其他消费贷款利率的基准——一度升到2.47%的高位，最后稳定在2.42%。曾是投资宠儿的黄金价格则降至两年半以来的最低水平。
The damage was more pronounced in a wide array of markets outside the United States, like Philippine government bonds and the Norwegian currency. Stock indexes in China, Europe and Mexico fell more than 3 percent.
美国之外的很多市场表现出了更大的破坏之势，如菲律宾的政府债券和挪威的货币。中国、欧洲和墨西哥的股指也下降了逾3%。
Investors were also rattled by reports that Chinese banks had become reluctant to lend to one another. And Europe’s debt woes came into focus again after the International Monetary Fund said it was considering suspending aid to Greece. But traders and investors cited the Fed’s changing policies as the main driver behind the big flows of money around the world.
让投资者感到不安的因素还有，中国的银行表现出了不愿互相借贷的倾向。此外，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)表示考虑暂停对希腊的援助，让欧洲的债务危机再次受到关注。然而，交易者和投资者都指出，美联储的政策变化才是全世界范围内大规模资金流动的主要动力。
“The trigger was clearly what is going on with the Fed,” said Ashish Goyal, the investment director at Eastspring Investments in Singapore.
“诱因显然是美联储的政策变化，”新加坡瀚亚投资(Eastspring Investments)首席投资长阿希什·戈亚尔(Ashish Goyal)说。
The heavy selling is a sharp reversal after years when low interest rates in the United States encouraged investors to put their money into foreign countries. For investors in once-attractive foreign markets, the fear is that those markets may be on even less firm economic footing than the United States’, and consequently less able to absorb the decline in lending that comes along with rising interest rates.
如今的大量抛售和之前的情况形成了鲜明对比，多年来，美国的低利率鼓励投资者把资金投向外国。对那些把钱投向一度诱人的外国市场的投资者来说，让人担心的事情是这些市场的经济基础甚至比美国还弱，因此也更不能消化与利率增加一同到来的借贷下降。
“When the U.S. embarks upon policies that are appropriate for its own domestic circumstances, it can impose policies on the rest of the world that aren’t necessarily appropriate to them,” said Darren Williams, the senior European economist at AllianceBernstein in London.
“美国推出适合本国情况的政策时，有可能等于是对世界其他国家施加了未必适合它们的政策，”联博(Alliance Bernstein) 驻伦敦的资深欧洲经济学家达伦·威廉姆斯(Darren Williams)说。
Interest rates are a vital determinant and indicator of economic activity. To try to encourage borrowing and bolster the economy after the financial crisis, the Fed has pushed rates down by cutting the interest rates it offers banks and by buying more than $2 trillion of bonds. The extent of the intervention has put markets on a hair trigger for any hint of a change from the Fed.
利率是经济活动的一个关键决定因素和指标。金融危机之后，为了鼓励借贷和提振经济，美联储已经通过削减其提供给各银行的利率和购买超过2万亿美元的债券压低了利率。美联储的干预广度已经把市场变成了惊弓之鸟，有关美联储政策变化的任何暗示都会引发动荡。
Mr. Bernanke has indicated that the Fed will pare its bond purchases only very slowly and may increase them again if there are signs the economy is being hurt. That has some analysts calling this week’s market turmoil a panicked overreaction. For the year, the S.& P. 500 index is still up 11.4 percent.
伯南克表示，美联储只会非常缓慢地削减其债券购买，如果有迹象表明经济受损的话，还可能会再次提高购买额度。有鉴于此，一些分析师把本周的市场动荡称为惊慌失措的过度反应。这一年，标准普尔500指数(S. & P. 500 index)依然上升了11.4%。
But there are significant concerns that the Fed may not be able to control the convulsions in the markets that Mr. Bernanke has already set off with his comments.
但是，人们十分担忧，美联储或许无力控制目前的市场骚动，而骚动正是由伯南克自己的言论引发的。
“It’s a very significant moment,” said Sebastian Galy, a foreign exchange strategist at Société Générale. “It’s the end of an extremely aggressive phase of monetary policy globally.”
“这是一个非常重要的时刻，”法国兴业银行(Société Générale)的外汇策略师塞巴斯蒂安·加利(Sebastian Galy)说。“这标志着全球货币政策一个极度激进阶段的结束。”
The American economy is probably not immune to these changes. After years of falling interest rates, which have encouraged a recovery in the housing market, banks have recently been asking for higher interest payments from home buyers. There are already signs that this is putting a damper on home sales. All of this helps explain the recent declines in American stocks. But Mr. Bernanke said that the United States economy was on firm enough footing to withstand the rising rates, and he has promised to intervene if that changes.
美国经济多半不能免受这些变化的冲击。多年的利率下降曾经推动了住宅市场的复苏，到了最近，银行却要求购房者支付更高的利息。已经有迹象表明，这将抑制住宅销售。这一切都有助于解释最近美国股市的下跌。但伯南克说，美国经济拥有足以承受利率上升的坚实基础，假如这一点发生改变，他已经承诺将进行干预。
The outlook has not been so bright in much of the rest of the world. China and Brazil are wrestling with lower growth rates. Falling prices for commodities are hurting natural-resource-rich countries like Australia and Russia.
在世界上的大多数地方，前景没有这么光明。中国和巴西正在与较低的增长率斗争。大宗商品价格的下跌正在损害澳大利亚和俄罗斯之类自然资源丰富的国家。
After the financial crisis, many of these markets became attractive to investors seeking higher returns in the face of paltry interest rates. Some 55 percent of the Mexican bond market, for example, is now owned by foreigners, up from 25 percent in 2010, according to Claudio Irigoyen, the Latin American strategist at Bank of America.
金融危机之后，面对着微不足道的利率，许多这类市场都对寻求较高回报的投资者产生了吸引力。例如，美国银行(Bank of America)的拉美策略师克劳迪奥·伊里戈延(Claudio Irigoyen)称，约55%的墨西哥债券市场现在是由外国人拥有，远远高于2010年的25%。
Hedge funds and other money managers have also been borrowing money on the cheap in the United States and using it to invest in foreign stock and bond markets offering higher returns. Now the prospect of higher interest rates in the United States is causing those investors to quickly unwind those trades.
对冲基金和其他基金经理也一直在从美国借取低成本的资金，并把资金投入回报较高的外国股票和债券市场。现在，对于美国利率升高的预期正在让那些投资者迅速解除这些交易。