The Federal Reserve’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, emphasized on Wednesday that the central bank remains committed to bolstering the economy, insisting that any deceleration in the Fed’s stimulus campaign will happen because it is achieving its goals, not because it has lowered its sights.
美联储(Federal Reserve)主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)在周三强调，央行仍然致力于支持经济发展，并坚称如果美联储做出任何削弱刺激计划的举措，那是因为该机构正在实现目标，而不是因为美联储降低了要求。
Mr. Bernanke said he still expected to reach that point in the coming months but, in what may have been his final appearance before the House Financial Services Committee, he cautioned that Congress itself posed the greatest risk to growth.
伯南克表示，他仍然期待在未来几个月实现相关目标，但他向众议院金融服务委员会(House Financial Services Committee)作证发言时警告称，国会本身对经济增长构成了最大威胁。这可能是伯南克最后一次来到该委员会作证。
“The risks remain that tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters by more than we currently expect, or that the debate concerning other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery,” he told the committee.
他对该委员会说，“风险仍然存在，收紧联邦财政政策将会在未来几个季度中限制经济增长，且限制程度将超出我们目前的预期，而有关债务上限状况等其他财政政策问题的争论也可能会进一步发酵，从而阻碍美国的经济复苏。”
The sluggish economy has been a constant background for Mr. Bernanke’s biannual testimony. Unemployment, at 7.6 percent, remains stubbornly above the Fed’s goals. Inflation has sagged to the lowest pace on record. Growth continues at a “modest to moderate pace,” the Fed said Wednesday in its monthly beige book survey of economic conditions across the country, released separately from Mr. Bernanke’s testimony.
伯南克每年要在这个听证会上做出两次发言，此次，低迷的经济成为了笼罩证词的阴霾，挥之不去。失业率仍然居高不下，达到7.6%，超出美联储的目标。通货膨胀率降至历史最低水平。美联储周三公布黄皮书，即每月全国经济情况调查报告，指出美国经济将继续以“较低至温和的步伐”增长。美联储分别发布了黄皮书及伯南克的证词。
Mr. Bernanke’s message on Wednesday was that the Fed would cut back on its monthly asset purchases — $85 billion of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities — only if conditions were improving. If unemployment instead stays high and growth rates do not improve, the Fed will keep buying bonds. If inflation stays low, the Fed will keep buying bonds. If longer- term interest rates go up, the Fed will keep buying bonds.
伯南克在周三传达的信息是，只有在经济情况有所改善的情况下，美联储才会缩减每月的资产购买规模——850亿美元（约合5215亿元人民币）的抵押担保债券和国债。如果失业率仍然高居不下，增长速度也没有提高，美联储将继续购买债券。如果通货膨胀率仍然较低，美联储将继续购买债券。如果长期利率有所上升，美联储将继续购买债券。
Mr. Bernanke revived a talking point from earlier this year, insisting the Fed was willing to buy more than $85 billion a month. “Because our asset purchases depend on economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a preset course,” Mr. Bernanke told the committee.
伯南克从今年早些时候开始重申一个观点，坚称美联储愿意每月购买超过850亿美元的债券。伯南克对委员会说，“因为我们的资产购买规模取决于经济及金融形势，这绝不是一个预先设定的进程。”
Even as Mr. Bernanke said that the Fed would keep its options open, he continued to suggest that the Fed would like to start reducing its asset purchases this year and then end them as soon as possible. If the economy needs more stimulus, the Fed would prefer to extend its policy of holding short-term interest rates near zero. Mr. Bernanke, who refers to this shift as “a change in the mix of tools,” has not explained the rationale and was not asked to do so.
即便伯南克表示，美联储将保留选择权，但他仍旧暗示，美联储希望从今年开始缩减资产购买规模，并尽快停止购买。如果经济发展需要更多刺激措施，美联储愿意延长将短期利率保持在接近零水平的政策的期限。伯南克称这个改变是“工具组合的变化”，但他没有说明原因，也没人要求他进行解释。
The Fed’s course will not be determined by Mr. Bernanke much longer. He is widely expected to step down as Fed chairman at the end of his second term in January. Members of both parties took the opportunity to praise him, although Republicans generally added that they opposed the Fed’s recent efforts. No one paid much attention to the finger Mr. Bernanke had pointed at them.
伯南克引领美联储的时间已经所剩无多了。外界广泛预期，他将在明年1月第二个任期结束时从美联储离职。两党都抓住机会赞扬伯南克，不过共和党人通常会补充说明，他们反对美联储最近的举措。尽管伯南克对他们进行了批评，但没有人对此给予太多关注。
“You acted boldly and decisively and creatively — very creatively, I might add,” said the committee’s chairman, Jeb Hensarling, Republican from Texas.
德克萨斯州共和党众议员，委员会主席杰布·亨萨灵(Jeb Hensarling)表示，“你的行动果敢、坚决、有创造性——我得说，很有创造性。”
“You’ve had a lot of compliments today. In my business it’s called a eulogy,” said Emanuel Cleaver, a Missouri Democrat, who is an ordained minister.
密苏里州民主党众议员伊曼纽尔·克里沃(Emanuel Cleaver)说，“你今天受到了很多赞美。在我们这一行，这叫作‘悼词’。”克里沃是一位获得正式任命的牧师。
“You have never been boring,” said Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat.
纽约州民主党人卡罗琳·马洛尼(Carolyn Maloney)说，“你从来都不会显得枯燥。”
Mr. Bernanke then did his best to be boring, sending the message to markets roiled by his comments last month that it was much ado about nothing.
接着，伯南克就极尽枯燥之能事。上个月，他的言论让市场波涛汹涌，但此时他又向市场表示，那全是庸人自扰。
Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, noted that Mr. Bernanke also cited the risk of deflation, something he had not done for several years. “The mention of deflation risks, rather than just low inflation, is a fairly strong statement coming from a sitting central bank chief,” Mr. Feroli wrote.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)首席美国经济师迈克尔·费罗利(Michael Feroli)表示，伯南克也提到了通货紧缩的风险，这一点他已经很多年没有提到了。费罗利写道，“在任的央行负责人谈及通缩风险，而不仅仅是通胀水平过低，这种措辞力度较大。”
Mr. Bernanke also emphasized that the Fed would not be satisfied with a decline in the unemployment rate if it was driven by people giving up the search for work rather than people finding new jobs. Importantly, he described this as a reason the Fed might extend its policy of low interest rates but not asset purchases.
伯南克也强调，如果失业率下降是因为人们放弃找工作，而不是因为他们找到了新工作，那么即使失业率下降，美联储也不会满意。值得注意的是，他还以此为理由，表示美联储或许会延长低利率政策，而不是资产收购操作。
His likely departure, however, means that his credibility increasingly depends on convincing investors that the rest of the Fed’s policy-making committee shares his views and is committed to maintaining the same policies. That task has been complicated by the fragmentation of the committee’s views about asset purchases. About half of the 19 officials who participate in meetings of the Fed’s policy-making committee indicated before the committee’s most recent meeting last month that they expected asset purchases to end later this year, while the rest — including Mr. Bernanke — saw a need for purchases into 2014.
然而考虑到伯南克离职的可能性，要想使其言论可信，将越来越多地取决于能否让投资者信服，美联储决策委员会的其他成员与他的观点一致，而且也会坚定地维持相同的政策。委员会对资产购买操作的意见分歧，让这个任务更加复杂。在美联储的决策委员会上个月召开最近一次会议前，19位出席会议的官员中，约有一半表示，他们预期资产购买操作将在今年晚些时候结束，而包括伯南克在内的其他人则认为资产收购需要维持到2014年。
Mr. Bernanke said Wednesday that his preferred timetable enjoyed “good support” from the committee, but it has not been codified in a policy statement.
伯南克周三表示，他倾向的那种时间表在委员会得到了“不错的支持”，不过这种支持还没有在政策声明中落实成文字。