Millions of Americans registered a protest vote on Tuesday, expressing their fierce opposition to an economic and political system that puts wealthy and corporate interests over their own. I strongly supported Hillary Clinton, campaigned hard on her behalf, and believed she was the right choice on Election Day. But Donald J. Trump won the White House because his campaign rhetoric successfully tapped into a very real and justified anger, an anger that many traditional Democrats feel.
数千万美国人上周二以投票的方式提出抗议，表达了他们对一个把财富和公司的利益置于他们的利益之上的经济和政治体制的强烈不满。我坚决地支持了希拉里·克林顿，尽了极大的努力为她助选，并在大选日仍相信她是正确的选择。但唐纳德·J·特朗普当选了总统，因为他竞选的花言巧语成功地利用了一种非常真实且合乎情理的愤怒，一种许多传统的民主党人也感到的愤怒。
I am saddened, but not surprised, by the outcome. It is no shock to me that millions of people who voted for Mr. Trump did so because they are sick and tired of the economic, political and media status quo.
大选的结果令我悲伤，但不惊讶。投票支持特朗普的千百万选民之所以那样做，是因为他们对经济、政治和媒体的现状深感厌倦，这对我来说一点也不震惊。
Working families watch as politicians get campaign financial support from billionaires and corporate interests — and then ignore the needs of ordinary Americans. Over the last 30 years, too many Americans were sold out by their corporate bosses. They work longer hours for lower wages as they see decent paying jobs go to China, Mexico or some other low-wage country. They are tired of having chief executives make 300 times what they do, while 52 percent of all new income goes to the top 1 percent. Many of their once beautiful rural towns have depopulated, their downtown stores are shuttered, and their kids are leaving home because there are no jobs — all while corporations suck the wealth out of their communities and stuff them into offshore accounts.
工薪家庭的人们眼看着政客从亿万富翁和企业财团得到竞选经费的支持，让政客们全然不顾普通美国人的需求。在过去的30年里，太多的美国人被他们的企业老板出卖了。他们工作时间更长，但工资却更低，眼看着体面报酬的工作流向中国、墨西哥或其他一些低工资的国家。他们厌倦了首席执行官的收入是他们收入的300倍，厌倦了所有新收入的52％流进了1％的最富有者的腰包。他们居住的许多曾经美丽的农村小镇人口减少，市镇中心的商店关闭，他们的孩子们因为当地没有工作离开家园，在这一切的同时，公司却把从他们的社区吸取的财富转移到离岸账户去。
Working Americans can’t afford decent, quality child care for their children. They can’t send their kids to college, and they have nothing in the bank as they head into retirement. In many parts of the country they can’t find affordable housing, and they find the cost of health insurance much too high. Too many families exist in despair as drugs, alcohol and suicide cut life short for a growing number of people.
工薪阶层的美国人付不起为自己的孩子提供像样、优质托儿服务的费用。他们没钱送自己的孩子上大学，他们眼看要退休，却在银行没有分文存款。他们在美国的许多地方找不到负担得起的住房，他们发现医疗保险的费用太高。随着毒品、酒精和自杀导致越来越多的人过早死亡，太多的家庭在失望和绝望中挣扎。
President-elect Trump is right: The American people want change. But what kind of change will he be offering them? Will he have the courage to stand up to the most powerful people in this country who are responsible for the economic pain that so many working families feel, or will he turn the anger of the majority against minorities, immigrants, the poor and the helpless?
候任总统特朗普说对了一点：美国人民人心思变。但他会给美国人民带来什么样的变化呢？他有勇气对抗这个国家的最强势者吗？那些人才是许多工薪家庭所感受的经济痛苦的罪魁祸首。还是他会把多数人的愤怒转向少数民族、移民、穷人和无助者呢？
Will he have the courage to stand up to Wall Street, work to break up the “too big to fail” financial institutions and demand that big banks invest in small businesses and create jobs in rural America and inner cities? Or, will he appoint another Wall Street banker to run the Treasury Department and continue business as usual? Will he, as he promised during the campaign, really take on the pharmaceutical industry and lower the price of prescription drugs?
他有勇气对抗华尔街吗？有勇气努力打破“大到不能倒”的金融机构吗？有勇气要求大银行向小型企业投资，在美国农村和内城贫民区创造就业机会吗？还是他会任命又一名华尔街银行家来管理财政部，继续一如既往的做法呢？他会像他在竞选期间承诺的那样，对制药行业动真格让其降低处方药的价格吗？
I am deeply distressed to hear stories of Americans being intimidated and harassed in the wake of Mr. Trump’s victory, and I hear the cries of families who are living in fear of being torn apart. We have come too far as a country in combating discrimination. We are not going back. Rest assured, there is no compromise on racism, bigotry, xenophobia and sexism. We will fight it in all its forms, whenever and wherever it re-emerges.
我非常痛苦地听到美国人在特朗普获胜之后受到威胁和骚扰的故事，我听到那些生活在担心被撕裂的恐惧之中的家庭的哭泣。我们的国家在反歧视方面已经走了很远。我们不会走回头路。请放心，在种族主义、偏见、仇外心理和性别歧视上没有妥协。无论歧视何时何地重新出现，我们都将抵制其所有的形式。
I will keep an open mind to see what ideas Mr. Trump offers and when and how we can work together. Having lost the nationwide popular vote, however, he would do well to heed the views of progressives. If the president-elect is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families, I’m going to present some very real opportunities for him to earn my support.
我会保持开放的心态，看看特朗普有什么想法，看看我们何时如何能一起工作。但是，他并没有赢得全国选民的多数票，所以他最好还是听听进步派的意见。如果候任总统真要推行改善工薪家庭生活的政策的话，我将为他提供一些非常真实的、赢得我支持的机会。
Let’s rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create millions of well-paying jobs. Let’s raise the minimum wage to a living wage, help students afford to go to college, provide paid family and medical leave and expand Social Security. Let’s reform an economic system that enables billionaires like Mr. Trump not to pay a nickel in federal income taxes. And most important, let’s end the ability of wealthy campaign contributors to buy elections.
让我们重建我们摇摇欲坠的基础设施、创造数百万高薪就业机会吧。让我们把最低工资提高到能糊口的水平、帮助学生上得起大学、提供带薪家务和医疗休假、扩大社会保障吧。让我们改革这个让像特朗普这样的亿万富翁不缴纳一分钱联邦所得税的经济体系吧。最重要的是，让我们终结让富有的竞选捐款者购买选举的能力吧。
In the coming days, I will also provide a series of reforms to reinvigorate the Democratic Party. I believe strongly that the party must break loose from its corporate establishment ties and, once again, become a grass-roots party of working people, the elderly and the poor. We must open the doors of the party to welcome in the idealism and energy of young people and all Americans who are fighting for economic, social, racial and environmental justice. We must have the courage to take on the greed and power of Wall Street, the drug companies, the insurance companies and the fossil fuel industry.
在未来的日子里，我也会提出一系列振兴民主党的改革措施。我坚信，民主党必须摆脱自己与企业权势集团的联系，再次成为以劳动人民、老年人和穷人为基础的政党。我们必须敞开党的大门，欢迎年轻人以及所有为经济正义、社会正义、种族正义和环境正义奋斗的美国人的理想主义和精力。我们必须有勇气挑战华尔街、制药公司、保险公司和化石燃料业的贪婪和权力。
When my presidential campaign came to an end, I pledged to my supporters that the political revolution would continue. And now, more than ever, that must happen. We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. When we stand together and don’t let demagogues divide us up by race, gender or national origin, there is nothing we cannot accomplish. We must go forward, not backward.
我曾在自己总统竞选活动结束时向支持者们保证，我们的政治革命将继续下去。这种继续现在比以往任何时候都有必要。我们是世界历史上最富有的国家。当我们团结在一起，不让蛊惑人心的政客用种族、性别或民族血统分裂我们时，我们就没有完成不了的事业。我们必须向前进，而不是向后退。