Are you in need of a new digital camera? I have a deal for you. It’s a one-of-a-kind Leica that will cost an estimated $500,000 to $750,000. What about a new Mac computer? I know where you can pick one up for about $60,000. Need some new headphones? I have a deal on those, too. A pair of solid rose gold iPod earbuds for about $25,000.
需要新的数码相机吗？我知道有一部很不错。举世仅此一部的徕卡(Leica)相机，估价50万（约合人民币304万元）到75万美元之间。来台新的Mac电脑怎么样？我知道在哪里可以花6万美元买到一台。需要一副新耳机吗？我也有一个好推荐给你。一副结实的玫瑰金iPod耳塞，价格2.5万美元左右。
Too pricey? Don’t worry, most of the money is going to charity.
太贵了？别担心，大部分钱都会用来支持慈善事业。
These fancy gadgets are part of the “Jony and Marc’s (RED) Auction,” which is being held on Friday in New York by Sotheby’s to help benefit RED, the charity founded by Bono and Bobby Shriver. The names “Jony” and “Marc” in the auction’s name are for none other than Jony Ive, the designer behind some of Apple’s most successful products, and Marc Newson, a renowned industrial designer who has created aircraft, furniture and clothing.But this will be the pair’s first collaboration on a Leica camera. And, most likely, their last.
这些花哨的小玩意是苏富比(Sotheby’s)本周五在纽约举办的“乔尼和马克(RED)拍卖会”(Jony and Marc’s [RED])上的部分拍品，该拍卖会旨在支持波诺(Bono)和鲍比·施莱弗(Bobby Shriver)共同创立的慈善组织RED。拍卖会名字中的“乔尼”和“马克”指的正是乔尼·艾夫(Jony Ive)和马克·纽森(Marc Newson)，前者是苹果公司大热产品背后的设计师，后者是著名工业设计师，曾设计过飞机、家具和服装。但这将是两人首次合作设计一部徕卡相机。很有可能也是最后一次。
According to a Leica spokesman, the Leica M (RED) camera took two years to design and build and is the only camera ever designed by Mr. Ive. It’s also, as far as I can tell, the only digital camera to cost more than half a million dollars. Even by Leica’s standards, this is an expensive camera.
徕卡公司发言人说，这部徕卡M(RED)相机花了两年时间来设计和制作，是艾夫迄今为止设计的唯一一款相机。据我所知，这也是唯一一部价格超过50万美元的数码相机。即使以徕卡的标准来看，这部相机也很贵。
The special-edition Leica camera is made of die-cast magnesium and anodized aluminium, and comes with a 50mm f2.0 lens. A similar model usually sells for about $4,400. Of course, this camera has something else unique to it — it’s inscribed with “Designed by Jony Ive & Marc Newson for (RED) 2013 edition 01/01.”
这部特别版徕卡相机采用压铸镁合金和阳极氧化铝合金材料，配备了50mm的f2.0镜头。类似的机型通常售价在4400美元左右。当然，这部相机还有其他的独特之处——机身上刻有“乔尼·艾夫和马克·纽森为(RED)2013设计，版本01/01”字样。
While Mr. Ive and Mr. Newson helped design some of the products in the auction, other objects were selected by the famous design duo, including an Hermès “Cavale” horse saddle, an Ettore Sottsass typewriter and a number of Dieter Rams audio products.
这次拍卖会上的一些产品是艾夫和纽森设计的，还有一些是他们挑选的，比如一个爱马仕“Cavale”马鞍，一台艾托雷·索特萨斯(Ettore Sottsass)设计的打字机，以及数件迪特·拉姆斯(Dieter Rams)设计的音频设备。
It’s unclear who is going to bid on, or eventually win, the $500,000 camera, but whoever it is, I hope they get a really good camera strap for it, and some even better insurance.
目前还不清楚谁会去竞拍这部50万美元的相机，也不清楚最终它会花落谁家，但无论是谁，我都希望他们为它找到优质的相机背带，至于保险就更是得可靠了。