An unmanned Chinese spacecraft that returned to Earth after orbiting the moon late last month carried with it a selection of Chinese music, including a song by Peng Liyuan, a famous singer and the wife of China’s president, Xi Jinping.
上个月末，中国的一艘无人航天器在绕月飞行后返回地球。航天器携带了一组中国音乐，其中包括著名歌手、中国国家主席习近平的妻子彭丽媛演唱的一首歌曲。
Ms. Peng’s song, “In the Field of Hope,” was one of 10 included on a microchip carried in the capsule during its mission, which was intended to test equipment and techniques for lunar orbit and re-entry for a future unmanned journey to the moon and back, the state news agency Xinhua reported.
执行任务期间，该航天器携带了一枚芯片，里面储存了10个中国作品，彭丽媛的歌曲《在希望的田野上》就是其中之一。据中国官方通讯社新华社报道，此次航天任务旨在测试探月以及将来无人航天器执行返回任务的器材和技术。
Other works on the device, called the China Dream Music Microchip, included the composer Tan Dun’s symphony “Heaven Earth Mankind”; a recording of the pianist Lang Lang playing Li Huanzhi’s “Spring Festival Overture”; a song sung by China’s version of the Three Tenors: Dai Yuqiang, Wei Song and Mo Hualun; and performances by other Chinese artists on the violin, cello, pipa, guqin and guzheng.
该芯片叫做“中国梦音乐芯片”，上面储存的其他作品有作曲家谭盾的交响乐《天地人》、钢琴家郎朗演奏李焕之的《春节序曲》、“中国三大男高音”戴玉强、魏松、莫华伦的《我像雪花天上来》，以及其他中国艺术家的小提琴、大提琴、琵琶、古琴和古筝表演。
“On the eight-day mission, Chinese musicians’ passion and dreams sang out to the vastness of space,” Xinhua said.
新华社报道称，“在长达八天的探月旅程中，中国音乐家的激情与梦想一路唱响在浩瀚太空。”
The mission also carried Chinese paintings and works of calligraphy, it said.
新华社称，飞船还携带了中国的书画作品。
Audio accompaniment has been part of space exploration since its earliest days, from the radio pulses of the Sputnik 1 satellite launched by the Soviet Union in 1957 to the Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield’s 2013 recording of David Bowie’s “Space Oddity” in the International Space Station.
音频伴奏从一开始就是太空探索任务的一部分，从1957年苏联发射的斯普尼克1号卫星(Sputnik 1)的射频脉冲，到加拿大航天员克里斯·哈德菲尔德(Chris Hadfield)2013年在国际空间站(International Space Station)录制翻唱的歌曲——大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)的《太空怪谈》(Space Oddity)。
China’s first satellite, Dong Fang Hong I, broadcast “The East is Red” by radio transmitter after its launch in 1970. The title of the song, a paean to Mao, is the same as the name of the satellite.
中国的第一颗卫星东方红1号在1970年发射升空后，通过无线电发射机播发了歌曲《东方红》。这首歌曲是对毛泽东的赞歌，歌曲的名字与卫星名字相同。