TOKYO — Apple’s new iPhones took a step closer Wednesday to being offered by the world’s biggest cellphone carrier, China Mobile, when the Chinese government approved the handset to run on the carrier’s next-generation network.
东京——苹果公司(Apple)的新一代iPhone向通过世界上最大的手机运营商中国移动提供给用户的方向迈进了一步，中国政府周三批准了新一代iPhone进入中国移动的下一代网络。
But many in China were raising their eyebrows instead at the new models’ price.
然而中国很多人却对新手机的报价感到惊讶。
While many analysts had expected Apple to price the iPhone 5C at about $400 in an effort to attract new customers in mainland China, where the company has been struggling, it will actually go for significantly more.
虽然很多分析人士曾预期，苹果公司为了吸引中国大陆的新用户，会将iPhone 5C的价格定在400美元左右（约合2450元人民币），但新款手机的售价却相当高。苹果公司一直在争取中国大陆的市场份额。
Apple said on its Web site that the iPhone 5C would start at 4,488 renminbi, or $733, without subsidies from mobile operators. That is not far below the price of the new flagship Apple iPhone 5S, which starts at 5,288 renminbi. Both phones were officially announced in California on Tuesday.
苹果公司在其网站上称iPhone 5C的起价为4488元人民币，这不包括移动运营商提供的补贴。这个价格比苹果的新旗舰产品iPhone 5S的起价5288元没低多少。这两款手机均于周二在加利福尼亚正式发布。
 
“If you look at the price, it’s clearly a high-end phone, not a low- or even midrange phone,” said Jenny Lai, an analyst at HSBC in Taipei, referring to the iPhone 5C.
汇丰银行(HSBC)驻台北分析师赖惠娟(Jenny Lai)在提到iPhone 5C时说，“如果看价格的话，这明显是一款高端手机，不是低端或者甚至不是中端手机。”
The price is about 33 percent higher in China than the full, unsubsidized $549 cost in the United States. Chinese carriers don’t generally subsidize the handset price for consumers but they often discount their monthly bill. So the eventual cost to consumers has plenty of room to come down.
这款手机在中国的售价，比在美国没有补贴的549美元的全价高出约33%。中国运营商一般不给消费者提供手机价格补贴，但他们通常会按月返话费。因此消费者最终的购机成本还有很大的下调空间。
But given that Apple has been losing ground to lower-cost rivals in China, some of which make smartphones that sell for less than $100, will the 5C be able to turn around the company’s fortunes there?
然而，鉴于苹果公司在中国市场上逐渐败给价格更低的竞争对手，这些对手中，有些公司以低于每台100美元的价格出售智能手机，5C是否会扭转苹果公司在中国的命运呢？
After the announcement, the stock prices of several Apple suppliers fell sharply, including that of Pegatron, a company based in Taiwan that is the main assembler of the iPhone 5C. Analysts said sales might fall short of expectations in China unless Apple lowered prices.
公司做出这一宣布之后，苹果的几家供应商的股价暴跌，其中包括iPhone 5C的主要组装商，位于台湾的和硕公司。分析师说，除非苹果降低价格，否则在中国的销售量将会低于预期水平。
“If they had been able to get down in the $350 to $400 range, we would have seen a big bump in the fourth quarter,” said Francis Sideco, an analyst at IHS, a research firm. “They’ll still get a bump, but this would have accelerated it.”
研究公司环球通视(IHS)的分析师弗朗西斯·西德科(Francis Sideco)说，“如果他们能让价格降到350至400美元之间，我们可能会在第四季度看到销售量的大幅增长。销售量还是会有增长的，但低价格会加速增长。”
Investors may also have been disappointed by the absence of an agreement to sell the phones through China Mobile, the biggest network operator in China, and the world, with 745 million customers.
投资者也许对苹果未能与中国移动达成销售手机的协议也感到失望，中国移动在中国乃至全世界是最大的网络运营商，拥有7.45亿用户。
Although China Mobile has been the biggest iPhone holdout, expectations of a deal have been fueled by the fact that the new iPhones are compatible with a technology called TD-LTE, which is employed in the next-generation wireless network that China Mobile is building. But that network is not yet operating.
虽然中国移动是迄今还没有向用户提供iPhone的最大公司，但人们对可能达成协议的期望值却很高，因为新一代iPhone与TD-LTE技术兼容，这是中国移动正在构建的下一代网络所用的技术。但是这个网络还没有投入使用。
The Telecommunications Equipment and Certification Center, an arm of China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, posted a notice on its Web site certifying that it has approved iPhones for use on TD-LTE networks, a necessary regulatory step.
中国工业和信息化部电信设备认证中心在其网站上发布的通知称，iPhone获得了进入TD-LTE网络的许可，这是一个必要的监管步骤。
With sales of phones from Chinese companies like Huawei, Lenovo, Xiaomi, Yulong Coolpad and ZTE growing rapidly, Apple’s share of the Chinese smartphone market fell to 5 percent in the second quarter, according to Canalys, a research firm.
研究公司Canalysd的数据显示，随着像华为、联想、小米、宇龙酷派和ZTE这些中国品牌的手机销售量快速增长，苹果今年第二季度在中国智能手机市场上的份额已下降到了5%。
Chinese phone buyers are especially price-sensitive because of the way the market is structured. Although carriers in the United States and Europe generally provide upfront subsidies, disguising the true cost of the phone, Chinese network operators typically sell phones at full cost and then, in some cases, provide discounts on monthly bills.
由于手机市场的结构，中国手机买家对价格尤其敏感。美国和欧洲的运营商一般会预先提供手机的购买补贴，掩盖了手机的真正成本，然而，中国网络运营商通常是全价出售手机，之后，有时会按月返送话费。
The lower-priced iPhone 5C will cost more than twice as much as rival devices like the Xiaomi Mi3, which starts at $327.
较低价位的iPhone 5C也比像小米Mi3这些与苹果有竞争力的手机贵1倍以上，Mi3起价为327美元。
“By any standards, it’s a premium price,” Mr. Sideco said. “When you really look at it, they didn’t make a cheaper phone. They made a more expensive phone so that they could call the other one a cheaper phone.”
西德科说，“按任何标准来看，那都是个高价。当你认真看一下后就会发现，他们没有制造更便宜的手机。他们制造了更贵的手机，所以他们才把那个称为更便宜的手机。”
The iPhone 5C comes in a plastic case, and its hardware is nearly identical to that of the iPhone 5. The iPhone 5S has an aluminum body, a faster processor and a fingerprint scanner, as well as other features.
iPhone 5C的机壳是塑料的，但硬件几乎与iPhone 5相同。iPhone 5S手机有铝制机壳、更快的处理器、指纹识别以及其他一些功能。
Some analysts said Apple might have announced a high initial price in China to justify eventual price cuts. If an agreement with China Mobile comes soon, Apple could then reap a marketing benefit by cutting prices just as it gains access to a vast new consumer base.
一些分析人士说苹果也许在中国先宣布一个高售价，这样就有理由在以后减价。如果能在不久的将来与中国移动达成协议，那么苹果公司就可以在得到一个巨大的新消费者群的同时，通过降价来获得营销效益。
Apple products have always been more expensive in China than in the United States — even though iPhones, for example, are actually assembled in China. That is because iPhones sold in China are subject to a 17 percent value-added tax, while those that are exported can be sent abroad tax-free.
苹果的产品在中国一直都比在美国贵，尽管其在中国组装，比如iPhone。这是因为iPhone在中国销售时要附加17%的增值税，而出口的手机则免税发送到国外。
Yet even with that 17 percent factored in, Apple appears to be marking up the iPhone 5C substantially in China, potentially giving it room to maneuver later.
但是即使考虑到17%的增值税，苹果公司似乎对在中国出售的iPhone 5C的定价也相当高，这可能给公司留下了日后的回旋余地。
“It looks like they are trying to test the market,” said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research. “How much are Chinese consumers willing to pay for the phone?”
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)分析师王平(Bryan Wang)说，“看来他们似乎是在测试市场。中国消费者愿意为这个手机付多少钱？”
The cost in mainland China is also higher than that in Hong Kong, where there is no value-added tax or sales tax. There, Apple announced a price of 4,688 Hong Kong dollars, or $604, for the iPhone 5C.
在中国大陆的售价也比在香港高，因为香港不征收增值税或销售税。苹果在香港宣布的iPhone 5C售价为4688港元，相当于604美元。
Price discrepancies between Hong Kong and mainland China have given rise to a booming trade in smuggled and “gray market” Apple products on the mainland. Mr. Wang estimated this business was worth $6 billion to $8 billion yearly.
香港和中国大陆的价格差异，形成了一个走私或通过“灰色渠道”进来的苹果产品在大陆的繁荣市场。王平估计这些交易额每年在60亿到80亿美元之间。
In the past, smuggling has been fueled by a delay of several months in the release dates for iPhones in China. This time, mainland China will get the iPhone 5C and 5S on Sept. 20, the same day as Hong Kong, the United States and other major markets.
过去，刺激走私的一个主要因素是iPhone在中国上市的时间要晚几个月。这次中国大陆将会与香港、美国和其他主要市场同时，在9月20号开始发售iPhone 5C和5S。
Pending the announcement of a deal with China Mobile, the new phones will be available through two other Chinese mobile carriers, China Unicom and China Telecom, which together have more than 400 million subscribers.
在等待与中国移动的合作协议发布的同时，这些新手机可以在中国另外两家手机运营商、中国联通和中国电信的网络上使用，这两家公司的用户加起来超过4亿。
Analysts said Apple could still make the phones accessible to a broader range of Chinese consumers by pushing those carriers to provide substantial subsidies or by accepting lower wholesale prices in return for higher sales.
分析人士说，苹果公司仍可能让iPhone在中国拥有更多的消费者，办法是迫使这两家运营商提供较高的补贴，或接受更低的批发价，以换取更高销售量的回报。
“Apple, if they want to, can still be aggressive, depending on what they do with the operators,” said Nicole Peng, an analyst at Canalys.
Canalys公司分析师彭路平(Nicole Peng)说，“如果苹果公司愿意的话，仍有主动权，这取决于他们与运营商之间如何协调。”