IF you have high blood pressure, you’re in good company. Hypertension afflicts 67 million Americans, including nearly two-thirds of people over age 60. But it isn’t an inevitable part of the aging process. It’s better to think of it as chronic sodium intoxication. And, as an important new study from Britain shows, there’s a way to prevent the problem — and to save many, many lives.
如果你有高血压，是不会缺病友的。美国有6700万人患有高血压，包括60岁以上人群中的近三分之二。然而它并不是衰老过程中不可避免的部分，更好的理解是，高血压是一种慢性钠中毒。而且就像英国一项重要的新研究显示的，有一种方法可以避免这种疾病，并且挽救许多许多人的生命。
A lifetime of consuming too much sodium (mostly in the form of sodium chloride, or table salt) raises blood pressure, and high blood pressure kills and disables people by triggering strokes and heart attacks. In the United States, according to best estimates, excess sodium is killing between 40,000 and 90,000 people and running up to $20 billion in medical costs a year.
长期摄入过量的钠（主要以氯化钠，也就是食盐的形式）导致血压升高，而高血压引发中风和心肌梗死，进而致人死亡和残疾。根据最可靠的估计，在美国，过高的钠摄入量每年导致4万到9万人死亡，由此带来的医疗成本最高达200亿美元。
Americans on average take in about 3,300 milligrams of sodium per day, but experts recommend less than 2,300 milligrams — and less than 1,500 milligrams for people over age 50, black people, or those who already have hypertension, diabetes or kidney disease, which adds up to a majority of American adults. Either target is far below where most Americans are now.
美国人平均每天摄入约3300毫克的钠，但专家建议的量是低于2300毫克，而对于年逾50的人、黑人或已患有高血压、糖尿病或肾病的人，建议低于1500毫克。这些群体加在一起在美国成人中占多数。而大多数美国人目前的钠摄入量都远远高于这两个标准。
The reason that nearly everyone eats way too much sodium is that our food is loaded with it, and often where we don’t taste or expect it. Of course ham and canned soup are full of salt, but so are many foods that are surprising: A blueberry muffin can have more than double the salt of a serving of potato chips. Even healthy-sounding food can pack heavy sodium loads. Two slices of whole wheat bread can have nearly 400 milligrams of sodium, as can two tablespoons of fat-free salad dressing. Eight ounces of V8 vegetable juice contains well over 500 milligrams. Many restaurant entrees have far more sodium than is recommended for an entire day. Applebee’s lemon shrimp fettuccine, at 5,100 milligrams, has more than twice as much.
之所以几乎所有人都摄入了太多的钠，是因为我们食物中钠的含量就很高，而且常常是我们尝不到咸味或想不到含有盐的食物。火腿和罐头汤里当然全都是盐，但令人震惊的是，许多其他食物也是如此：一个蓝莓松饼的含盐量可能比一份薯条含盐量的两倍还多。即使是听起来十分健康的食物可能有着极高的钠含量。两片全麦面包中含有的钠差不多可达到400毫克，和两勺脱脂沙拉酱的含钠量差不多。8盎司V8蔬菜汁含有远远高于500毫克的钠。许多餐厅开胃菜的钠含量远远超过了建议的一天摄入量。苹果蜂(Applebee)的柠檬虾宽面条的钠含量为5100毫克，是每天建议摄入量的两倍还多。
Doctors warn people with high blood pressure to go on a low-salt diet, but that’s virtually impossible in today’s world, because nearly 80 percent of the sodium that Americans eat comes in packaged and restaurant food (whether it’s a bagel, a sandwich or a steak dinner). You can’t take it out. And nearly everyone, not just people with hypertension puzzling over food labels, should be taking in less sodium. The only way to prevent millions of Americans from developing high blood pressure is for companies and restaurants to stop loading up their food with sodium.
医生们警告高血压患者要坚持低盐饮食，但现如今，几乎不可能做到这一点，因为美国人摄入的80%的钠来自包装食品和餐厅食品（无论是百吉圈、三明治还是牛排晚餐）。你没法把食物里的钠去掉。而且，不光是对食品标签感到迷惑的高血压患者，几乎所有人都应该减少钠的摄入。防止数百万美国人患上高血压的唯一办法，就是让企业和餐馆不要在食品里放那么多钠。
Health experts have been asking the food industry to do that for decades. It’s not easy, but it isn’t impossible either. Sure, we all like the taste of salt, but there is much that food companies can do without driving away customers. Often they add sodium for leavening or food texture rather than taste, when replacement ingredients are available. And sodium levels in similar popular foods made by different manufacturers often vary two- or threefold (for example, a slice of pizza can pack anywhere from between 370 and 730 milligrams), which suggests that many manufacturers can cut sodium levels in their foods sharply without hurting taste. When salt levels in food drop, people’s preference for salt also shifts down, so no one would notice a gradual reduction in sodium across all foods.
几十年来，健康专家一直在要求食品行业这么做。这虽不容易，但也并非不可能。当然，我们都喜欢盐的味道，但在不赶走顾客的前提下，食品公司还是大有可为的。当有其他替代性原料时，它们仍选择在食品中添加钠，这通常是为了发酵，或者改变食物的口感，而不是味道。不同制造商生产的相似的大众食品的钠含量通常相差两到三倍（例如，一块披萨的钠含量可能在370到730毫克之间），这意味着许多制造商完全可以在不破坏食品味道的同时，减少食品中的钠含量。如果食品中的含盐量下降，人们对盐的期待也会慢慢降低，这样一来，没有人会注意到所有食物中的含钠量都在逐渐减少。
That’s exactly what Britain’s Food Standards Agency has done. It divided processed food into different categories, set salt-reduction targets in each category and then asked companies to meet those targets over time. And as they did that, from 2001 to 2011, sodium consumption by the British fell 15 percent.
这正是英国的食品标准局(Food Standards Agency)所做的事。它把加工食品进行分类，为每一类设定减盐目标，并要求企业逐渐做出改变，直至达标。随着企业做出上述改变，从2001到2011年，英国人的钠摄入量减少了15%。
The new study shows that this drop in salt intake has been accompanied by a substantial reduction in average blood pressure, a 40 percent drop in deaths from heart attacks and a 42 percent decline in deaths from stroke.
这项新研究表明，伴随着盐摄入量的下降，人们的平均血压大幅降低，死于心肌梗死和中风的几率分别下降了40%和42%。
A few scientific critics have been arguing for years that reducing salt intake is risky because it might paradoxically increase mortality in some people receiving aggressive treatment for congestive heart failure, but the British data show at a national level what smaller studies project — that when sodium levels in everyone’s food drop, so does the number of people dying from heart disease and stroke.
多年来，少数科学批评人士一直宣称，减少盐的摄入有风险，因为它可能会适得其反地增加部分接受积极治疗的充血性心力衰竭患者的死亡率，但英国的数据在全国范围内表明，当所有人的食物中的钠含量降低时，死于心肌梗死和中风的人数会减少——一些规模较小的研究也反映出了这一点。
Lower smoking rates in Britain no doubt are helping as well, but as the authors of the study point out, the fall in mortality echoes the success of Japan and Finland in earlier decades, both of which reduced sodium consumption from sky-high levels with focused government efforts and saw huge drops in heart attacks and strokes.
英国吸烟率的降低无疑也在起作用，但正如这项研究报告的作者所指出的那样，死亡率的下降与日本和芬兰在早前几十年取得的成功相似。在政府的集中努力下，日本和芬兰将极高的钠摄入水平降了下去，实现了心肌梗死和中风发病率的大幅下降。
Here in the United States, in 2010, an Institute of Medicine panel was so troubled by salt-caused deaths that it called for mandatory federal standards for sodium in food. But the question of whether the Food and Drug Administration should regulate salt is more complicated than it might seem at first. As an expert once told me, you’re never going to ban pickles.
在美国，2010年，国家医学院(Institute of Medicine)一个小组深受盐致死问题的困扰，因而呼吁就食品中的钠含量制定强制性的联邦标准。但美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）该不该监管盐这个问题比乍看上去更复杂。一名专家曾经告诉我，腌制食品是永远也禁不了的。
The only way to regulate that I can see is to set maximum sodium levels within many different food categories. But that could backfire if the levels are set high and then the companies already making food with sodium below those levels take the new limits as license to increase to the maximum amount of sodium permitted. I believe that in the end we will need a combination of mandated maximums and a coordinated voluntary sodium-reduction program like that in Britain. But the voluntary plan should come first, to see how much sodium levels can be reduced that way. 
我能想到的唯一的监管办法是，在许多不同食品种类内部制定最高钠含量标准。但如果标准设得较高，可能会适得其反，所生产的食品钠含量本低于相关标准的那些公司，会认为新的限量标准允许它们把钠含量增加到允许的最高水平。我相信，我们最终需要把强制规定的最高限量，和英国那种经过协调的自发减钠活动相结合。但自发减钠计划应该是第一步，以便了解通过这种方式能让钠含量降低多少。
There is absolutely no reason we can’t do an initiative similar to Britain’s on this side of the Atlantic now. Over the last four years, the New York City health department has led the National Salt Reduction Initiative, a network of over 90 health departments and national organizations, including the American Medical Association, the American Heart Association, the American College of Cardiology and Consumers Union, working with food companies to voluntarily cut sodium, using Britain as a model.
现在，我们完全能够在大西洋的这一侧开展与英国类似的行动。过去四年，纽约市的卫生部门发起了全国减盐行动(National Salt Reduction Initiative)，这是一个由90多个卫生部门和全国性组织组成的网络，其中包括美国医学会(American Medical Association)、美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)、美国心脏病学会(American College of Cardiology)和消费者联盟(Consumers Union)，它们与食品公司合作，以英国为范例，自发地减少食品中的钠含量。
Twenty-one companies, including food giants like Kraft, Unilever and Subway, and many others like Mars and Goya, have joined, putting less sodium in common products like processed cheese and canned beans. But far more food companies are ignoring it, and the initiative got no commitments at all in 18 of 62 packaged food categories.
包括卡夫(Kraft)、联合利华(Unilever)和赛百味(Subway)等食品业巨头，以及玛氏(Mars)和Goya等许多其他企业在内的21家公司已经加入了进来，在经过加工的奶酪和灌装豆类等常见产品中少放钠。但更多的食品企业无视这一行动，在62类包装食品中的18类中，该行动完全没得到响应。
A proposal as important to human life as this needs the stature and resources of the federal government to bring the rest of the food industry along. The F.D.A. has been developing a new plan for a voluntary, coordinated, national initiative. Unfortunately, even though it is voluntary, the food industry is fighting it, and the plan is stalled.
一项对生命如此重要的提议需要联邦政府的声望和资源，以发动食品行业的其他企业。FDA一直在为一项自发的、经过协调的、全国性的活动制定新计划。遗憾的是，尽管是自发性的，但该活动遭到了食品行业的抵制，相关计划被搁置。
Many people are unnecessarily on kidney dialysis, in stroke rehabilitation centers and dying because we are failing to act. Even modest reductions in sodium in food could save tens of thousands of lives and billions in health care costs every year. No one likes government mandates these days. But it’s high time the federal government starts to fix this problem by at least leading a voluntary initiative that we know will save many lives.
因为我们未能采取行动，许多人要进行肾透析，入住中风复原中心，甚至丧命，这些本是可以避免的。食物中的钠含量即使是小幅降低，也可能会挽救成千上万人的性命，节省数十亿美元的医疗保健成本。如今，没人喜欢政府命令。但现在是联邦政府开始解决这个问题的时候了，办法是至少领导一场自发性的活动。我们知道，这场活动将挽救许多生命。