A MODERN APARTMENT IN A MEDIEVAL BUILDING IN PRAGUE
布拉格，一栋中世纪建筑里的一套现代公寓
$ 1.4 MILLION (28 MILLION KORUNAS)
140万美元（2800万克朗，约合人民币869万元）
This apartment, on the second floor of a historic building dating to the 12th century, has been used as a two-bedroom in the past, but is now configured as a one-bedroom with a living room and dining room. The building was renovated several times over the centuries, and period details from the Middle Ages, the Renaissance and the 19th century remain. It is next door to a tower of the Charles Bridge, just across the river from Prague’s Old Town.
这套公寓，在一座年代可追溯至12世纪的历史建筑的第二层，之前曾被用作一套两居室公寓，现经重新规划，成为了一套带有一间客厅与餐厅的一居室公寓。数百年来，这栋建筑物虽几经翻修，却依然保留了中世纪、文艺复兴和19世纪各个时期的历史细节。该建筑与查理大桥(Charles Bridge)的一座塔楼相邻，河对岸就是布拉格的老城区(Prague's Old Town)。
The apartment was refurbished in 2012 by Jana Hamrova, an architect who preserved the painted 19th-century wood ceilings; there are new oak floors throughout. Restored wooden doors from the 19th century separate the living room from the dining room, where one wall is mirrored to show views of the bridge tower. The opposite wall was once the exterior wall of the tower and is done in a 16th-century layered plaster technique called sgraffito. The dining-room table is made of salvaged 16th-century doors, with glass laid over the top. The table, along with many of the other custom furnishings, may be negotiated as part of the sale.
这套公寓在2012年由建筑师亚娜·哈姆罗瓦(Jana Hamrova)重新装修过，保留了绘有图案的19世纪木质天花板；整套公寓都新铺了橡木地板。一扇重新修复的19世纪木门，将客厅与餐厅隔开，餐厅里有一面墙被做成镜面，以展现查理大桥塔楼的景致。而对面的墙壁就曾是那座塔楼的外墙，墙面采用了一种称为“五彩拉毛”(sgraffito)的16世纪分层粉饰技术。餐桌是用一扇被抢救下来的16世纪门板做的，桌面上配了一块玻璃。这张桌子和许多其它定制家具能否连同房屋一起销售，都可商榷。
The kitchen cabinets are highly polished white lacquer, and the upper cabinets are arranged to curve around the historical painting on the walls. A wine refrigerator is set into one end of the center island, and the white Corian countertops are illuminated from underneath. Track lighting was installed to avoid disturbing the historic wood ceilings with ceiling-mounted light fixtures.
厨房里的几个橱柜刷上了高度抛光的白漆，上层的橱柜紧贴着四壁悬挂的历史悠久的画作。中央岛台的一端装有一台存放红酒的冰箱，白色的可丽耐(Corian)台面采用了底部照明。为避免对这片古老的木质天花板进行改装，房屋安装了导轨式照明(track lighting)，采用的是顶置式照明设备。
The bedroom has a cast-marble bathtub and a dramatic light fixture designed by Flos using a textile imbued with plastic. The bathroom off the bedroom is tiny, with a small sink, a toilet and a shower stall. The apartment’s other bathroom, which can be reached through the living room and the kitchen, has one bright red wall entirely covered with glass, and another wall tiled with natural stone. A crystal chandelier provides light, and a white porcelain column is topped with a sink.
卧室里有一座浇注成型的人造大理石浴缸，和一只由Flos设计的、使用了塑料质感布料的夸张灯具。卧室外的那间浴室很小，仅包括一个小盥洗池、一个马桶和一处淋浴间。这套公寓的另一间浴室，穿过客厅和厨房可以到达，内有一面全部覆盖着玻璃的大红色墙壁，以及另一面贴着天然石材的墙壁。一盏水晶枝形吊灯提供了照明，还有一根白色瓷柱，顶部放置了一个盥洗池。
The building adjoins a medieval tower of the Charles Bridge. There are 22 apartments in the building, and a grocery store on the ground floor. The Church of St. Nicholas is a block away, and Prague’s Old Town is just across the Vltava River. The neighborhood is popular with tourists, and there are many shops within a few minutes’ walk. The airport is about 40 minutes away by car.
这栋建筑毗邻查理大桥的一座中世纪塔楼，内有22套公寓，一楼还有一间杂货店。圣尼古拉斯教堂(The Church of St. Nicholas)就在一个街区之外，而布拉格老城区与此栋建筑也仅一条伏尔塔瓦河(Vltava River)之隔。这片社区是游客们喜欢逛的地方，这里还有许多商店，都在步行数分钟范围内。布拉格机场大约距此40分钟车程。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
“In general the market looks fairly positive,” said Ondrej Novotny, the head of research at Jones Lang LaSalle in Prague. He said that can be attributed to increased buyer confidence and a booming mortgage market. Mr. Novotny said smaller banks are entering the mortgage market, and larger banks are offering attractive terms in response to the increased competition. He said he is not concerned about abundant funding causing a bubble, however, because lending restrictions are still quite stringent, and Czechs are still conservative borrowers. “The problem in the Czech Republic is not too much spending — it’s not enough spending,” he said. Prices have decreased slightly in recent months. Mr. Novotny said the drop represents a stabilizing market, but does not indicate a future downturn.
“总体而言，市场行情看上去相当乐观，”仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)布拉格分公司的首席研究员翁德雷·诺沃特尼(Ondrej Novotny)说。他认为其原因可归结为买家信心的增长，和兴旺的按揭贷款市场。诺沃特尼说，一些较小的银行正在进入该贷款市场，而那些较大的银行为了应对越来越多的竞争，就推出了一些很有吸引力的条款。他说自己并不担心大量资金会导致泡沫现象，因为借贷限制依然相当严格，而且捷克人仍旧是保守的贷款者。“捷克共和国(Czech Republic)的问题不是过度消费——而是没有足够的消费，”他说。最近几个月，地产价格稍微有所下降。诺沃特尼说，这种下跌代表着一个日趋稳定的市场，而并非预示即将发生经济衰退。
Luxury apartments in Prague are mostly defined by location, said Iva Novakova, the head of the residential department for Jones Lang LaSalle’s Prague office. Centrally situated apartments are the most expensive, especially if they are in historic buildings close to the Vltava River. Ms. Novakova said the average prices for such apartments are 150,000 korunas per square meter (around $690 per square foot), but can go higher — 200,000 or even 250,000 korunas per square meter for properties with sought-after views. This apartment, at 117 square meters or about 1,260 square feet, is priced at 239,000 korunas per square meter.
布拉格的豪华公寓大多取决于地段位置。仲量联行布拉格分公司住宅部的主管伊娃·诺瓦科瓦(Iva Novakova)说。位于中心区的公寓价格最贵，尤其是那些位于伏尔塔瓦河附近的历史建筑中的。诺瓦科瓦说，这类公寓的均价是每平方米15万克朗（大约每平方英尺690美元，约合人民币每平方米4.6万元），但可能还会更高——一些具有热门景观的房产，每平方米的价格可达20万克朗（约合每平方米人民币6.1万元），或甚至25万克朗（约合每平方米人民币7.7万元）。本文这套公寓的面积是117平方米，约合1260平方英尺，价格在每平方米23.9万克朗（约合每平方米人民币7.3万元）。
WHO BUYS IN PRAGUE
谁在布拉格买房
“Eighty percent of the buyers in Prague are Czechs,” said Tomas Blahuta, a property consultant with Svoboda & Williams and the listing agent. Most of the foreign buyers are Russians, and Mr. Blahuta said his company is stepping up its marketing efforts in Russian and hiring Russian-speaking agents to meet the demand. British buyers are not uncommon, although Mr. Blahuta said rental yields in Prague are lower than in London, so there are very few British investors. He added that the Czech currency has weakened recently against the euro, which has attracted some foreign buyers, who can get a lot for their money in Prague at the moment.
“在布拉格，百分之八十的买房者都是捷克人，”Svoboda & Williams公司的一位房产顾问、即本文房源的经纪人托马斯·布拉胡塔(Tomas Blahuta)说。外国买家则多为俄罗斯人，布拉胡塔说，他所在的公司正努力把他们在俄罗斯的市场营销活动推上一个台阶，为迎合市场需求，还聘请了会讲俄语的经纪人。英国买家也并不少见，不过布拉胡塔说，布拉格的租金回报率低于伦敦，所以来自英国的投资者并不多。他还补充说，由于近期捷克货币对欧元疲软，一些外国买家受到了吸引。眼下他们的钱在布拉格可以获得更大收益。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
“In the past, the foreigners had to buy properties through companies, but nowadays I don’t know any restrictions for any buyers,” Mr. Blahuta said.
“过去，外国买家必须通过一些公司来购买房产。但如今，我就没听说针对任何买家有什么限制了。”布拉胡塔说。
Transaction costs for the buyer are minimal. Mr. Blahuta said the buyer and the seller each hire a lawyer. Total fees depend on the complexity of the sale, but most lawyers in Prague range from 1,500 to 5,000 Czech korunas an hour ($75 to $250 per hour at 20 korunas to the dollar). Escrow fees for an apartment like this usually cost about $1,400, which is shared between the buyer and the seller, Mr. Blahuta said.
向买家收取的交易费用是最少的。布拉胡塔说，买家与卖家各需聘请一位律师。费用总和取决于这笔买卖的复杂程度，但布拉格大部分律师的收费区间是每小时1500克朗（约合人民币458.9元）至5000克朗（约合人民币1529.5元）（按照20克朗兑1美元的汇率，相当于每小时75美元至250美元）。一套这样的公寓，过户公证费一般要花大约1400美元（约合人民币8686元），这笔费用由买家与卖家分摊，布拉胡塔说。
Financing is readily available to foreign buyers in the Czech Republic. Mr. Blahuta said Czech citizens and European Union citizens alike can typically get mortgage rates of about 2.5 percent, but rates are somewhat higher for Russian and American buyers. Still, Americans who can document their incomes are usually able to obtain mortgages of up to 80 percent of the value of the property.
捷克共和国有面向外国买家的融资方式。布拉胡塔说，捷克公民与欧盟公民一样，都能获得大约2.5%的按揭贷款利率；但这项利率对俄罗斯与美国的买家较高一些。不过，能提供收入证明文件的美国人一般还是能获得接近房产价值80%的按揭贷款。