Not unlike Christopher Columbus, Joseph Gonzalez is in search of the New World. And he has found it some 480 times.
约瑟夫·冈萨雷斯(Joseph Gonzalez)与克里斯托弗·哥伦布(Christopher Columbus)并无不同，他也在寻找“新大陆”。而他达成目标的次数，已经约莫有480次了。
That is the number of antique maps of Hispaniola and the West Indies that he and his partner, Ralph Magnus, have collected and hung in their three-bedroom apartment on Union Square. No wall, bookcase, support column or closet door is without an image of the 400-mile-long, 150-mile-wide island, which is divided between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Once Hispaniola was the center of the New World. Now it has taken over their home.
这个数字指的是他和伴侣拉尔夫·马格努斯(Ralph Magnus)发现新大陆古地图的次数。地图上绘制的是伊斯帕尼奥拉岛(Hispaniola)和西印度群岛(West Indies)。两人将地图收集起来，挂在了他们位于联合广场(Union Square)的三居室公寓里。在这里，所有的墙面、书柜、支撑柱、衣柜门上，都张贴着这座长400英里、宽150英里的岛屿的图片，岛上的土地分属两个国家——海地和多米尼加共和国。伊斯帕尼奥拉岛曾是新大陆的中心，而如今，它占领了冈萨雷斯和马格努斯的家。
Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Magnus, dealers who own a business called Fair Winds Antique Maps, are happy to sell you maps of the Americas, Mediterranean and Holy Land. But they have never sold, nor do they plan to sell, a single map from their private Hispaniola collection. Not the Bordoni map, which was drawn in Italy in 1528 and, according to Mr. Gonzalez, is the oldest printed map of the island, nor the Rand McNally road map of 1939, nor anything in between.
作为商人，冈萨雷斯和马格努斯拥有一家名为Fair Winds Antique Maps的商店。他们乐于出售美洲、地中海和圣地（Holy Land，即巴以地区——译注）的地图给你，但却从不出售、也不打算出售他们私藏的伊斯帕尼奥拉岛古地图。比如博尔多尼(Bordoni)版地图，这张图于1528年绘制于意大利，据冈萨雷斯说，是伊斯帕尼奥拉岛年代最久远的印制地图；或者1939年兰德·麦克纳利（Rand McNally，地图出版商——译注）出版的公路地图。这两个年代之间的任何私藏品都不外销。
And be prepared to squint when you look at them. To ensure that every cartouche, sea monster and rhumb line remains vibrant, the men keep the Venetian blinds in their south-facing apartment drawn, as if for a permanent siesta.
当你看向那些地图，可得准备好眯起眼睛仔细察看。冈萨雷斯和马格努斯住的公寓坐北朝南。为了让地图上所有的漩涡装饰、海怪和等角航线都鲜明可见，两人从不打开活动百叶窗帘，仿佛是永远处于午休中的房间。
For Mr. Gonzalez, the attraction to Hispaniola is personal. His father emigrated from the Dominican Republic to New York in the 1930s, and his mother, who was born in a tiny Dominican town called Moca, arrived in the city as a tourist in 1941. “She was caught by the war, when travel anywhere overseas suddenly became difficult, and stayed here, and that is how my parents met,” said Mr. Gonzalez, who was born in New York in 1951. “At that time, there was a very tiny Dominican community in New York and ties were tight among the people. I grew up in that, and felt a close connection to the island.”
对于冈萨雷斯来说，他对伊斯帕尼奥拉岛的痴迷有其自身的原因。他的父亲于20世纪30年代从多米尼加共和国移民到了纽约，母亲出生于一个名为莫卡(Moca)的多米尼加小镇，1941年来到纽约旅行。“当时正逢战争爆发，在国外的出行突然变得非常困难，她就被滞留在了纽约。我的父母就是这样相遇的，”于1951年出生在纽约的冈萨雷斯说，“那时候，纽约的多米尼加人很少，彼此之间的联系都很紧密。我在这样的环境下长大，感觉与家乡的海岛血脉相连。”
It was only after the assassination of the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo in 1961 that Mr. Gonzalez visited his parents’ homeland with his mother. As Trujillo’s regime was ending, the country experienced considerable violence. Mr. Gonzalez continued to make the trip every year, except for 1965, when the United States Marines invaded Santo Domingo amid the turmoil that followed Trujillo’s death. But once he started college, he said, his attachment began to loosen. Much of his ambivalence was the result of “that first-generation thing about ‘am I American or Dominican?’ ”
直到1961年多米尼加独裁者拉斐尔·特鲁希略(Rafael Trujillo)被刺杀后，冈萨雷斯才随母亲回到了他父母的家乡。在特鲁希略政权倒台后，这个国家陷入了严重的暴力冲突当中。此后他坚持每年都回去探望，除了1965年。这一年，美国海军陆战队借特鲁希略之死引发骚动之机，入侵了圣多明哥（Santo Domingo，多米尼加的首都——译注）。不过，在他进入大学之后，他说，这种对故乡的关切开始变淡。他的矛盾心态大多来自“第一代移民在身份认同上的困惑：‘我是一个美国人，还是一个多米尼加人？’”
Mr. Gonzalez recalled the moment when his interest was reignited through maps. He was working as an editor at Reader’s Digest Books in 1990, compiling a historical atlas, when he came across an early-17th-century Mercator/Hondius map that showed Cuba at the top, Hispaniola at the bottom and three small insets of Jamaica, Puerto Rico and Margarita Island. The map not only reminded him of his forefathers’ home; it was a beautiful object he found himself coveting. Months later, when an edition came up for auction at Swann Galleries, he and Mr. Magnus bought it for $700.
冈萨雷斯回忆起，他的故乡情结藉由地图重燃的时刻。当时他作为《读者文摘》(Reader’s Digest)1990年版系列丛书的编辑，正在编纂一部历史地图集。在此过程中，他偶然看到一幅17世纪初的墨卡托/洪第乌斯（Mercator/Hondius，墨卡托是16世纪的地图制图学家，洪第乌斯是文艺复兴时期欧洲地理学和雕刻制图家——译注）版地图，图中古巴在上方，伊斯帕尼奥拉岛在下方。旁边还有三个小插图，从上到下分别是牙买加、波多黎各和玛格丽塔岛(Margarita Island)。看到这幅图后，他不仅燃起了思乡之情，而且禁不住想要得到这样一件精美的艺术品。几个月后，当这张地图的一个版本在斯旺画廊(Swann Galleries)拍卖时，他和马格努斯以700美元（约合人民币4244元）的价格买下了它。
As their collection grew, so did their hunger for rarities. Their 1634 map of the West Indies, known informally as the Blaeu after the Dutch cartographer Willem Janszoon Blaeu who drew it, is one of only 10 in the world. Their 1534 map of Hispaniola by Giovanni Ramusio, based on writings by Peter Martyr, is the first realistic representation of the island in print. Seeing in the intricately rendered land mass the shape of a “crab that appears to be eating something,” Mr. Gonzalez pointed out that early European mapmakers were forced to rely on reports and sketches from returning navigators. “What the mapmakers were most interested in was the coastline,” he added. “The interiors that show mountain ranges and forests are largely fantasies.”
随着藏品数量的增长，他们对珍奇品的胃口也越来越大。其藏品之一是一幅1634年版的西印度群岛地图，俗称“布劳”(the Blaeu)，得名于其绘制者、荷兰制图家威廉·扬松·布劳(Willem Janszoon Blaeu)。这个版本的地图全世界只有十幅。还有一个藏品，是1534年版的伊斯帕尼奥拉岛地图，由约翰·拉穆西奥(Giovanni Ramusio)根据彼得·马特（Peter Martyr，13世纪的多米尼加圣徒——译注）的著述绘制，是有史以来第一幅真实再现这座岛屿样貌的印刷品。看着那片好像一只“看起来正准备吃掉什么的螃蟹”形状的杂乱陆地，冈萨雷斯指出，早期的欧洲地图绘制者们，不得不依赖返乡水手的描述及其绘制的草图。“那时的地图绘制者们最感兴趣的是海岸线，”他补充说，“而在内陆描绘的那些山脉和森林，大多就来自他们的幻想了。”
Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Magnus met some 40 years ago at Julius, a still-extant gay bar on West 10th Street. They moved into their current rental apartment in 1977. “We’ve been together so long, I sometimes think we’re the original gay couple in New York,” Mr. Gonzalez said.
大约40年前，冈萨雷斯和马格努斯在西10街的同志酒吧Julius相识。那家酒吧至今还在。1977年，两人搬进了现在所住的出租公寓。“我们在一起很多年了，有时我在想，说不定我们是全纽约第一对同志伴侣，”冈萨雷斯说。
In hanging the maps, the men put the earliest and most historically important ones in a guest bedroom, with Dutch and Italian versions across from their French and English counterparts. The office contains 18th- and 19th-century depictions of Hispaniola and the West Indies, while the living room has a geographically broader range, primarily Dutch from the 17th century, which the men describe as the golden age of mapmaking.
挂地图时，两人把年代最早、历史价值最高的那些藏品挂到了客卧里，荷兰和意大利制的地图，挂在法国和英国制地图的对面。办公室里挂着18世纪到19世纪出版的伊斯帕尼奥拉岛和西印度群岛图像。而客厅里的地图，涵盖的地域范围则更广，主要是17世纪的荷兰制品，两人把这一时期称为地图绘制的黄金时代。
In the small foyer is what they call the “Wall of Death,” with engraved scenes of dogs mauling slaves, traitorous Spaniards being hanged and Indians pouring molten gold down the throat of a conquistador. The images, arranged chronologically, come from a 1594 edition of “Les Grands Voyages,” a portfolio by the Dutch cartographer Theodor de Bry.
小门厅里有一堵墙，他们称之为“死亡之墙”。墙上的版画描绘着种种死亡场景：奴隶被狗群撕咬、西班牙叛国者被吊死、印第安人把熔化的金子灌入西班牙征服者的喉咙。这些图像都按照年代顺序排列，选自1594年版的《大航海》(Les Grands Voyages)，是荷兰制图师特奥多雷·德·布里(Theodor de Bry)所作的画册。
As he approached the master bedroom, Mr. Gonzalez announced, “This is where the New World ends.” Hanging there was Mr. Magnus’s collection of antique maps of his birthplace: Hamburg, Germany.
快走到主卧时，冈萨雷斯宣布：“这里就是新大陆地界的终结了。”卧室里悬挂着马格努斯的古董地图藏品，描绘的是他的出生地：德国汉堡。
To a visitor’s eye, the apartment walls appeared to be incapable of supporting another map, unless the owners were willing to remove a tapestry that once hung in Mr. Gonzalez’s mother’s house in the Dominican Republic.
在访客眼里，这套公寓的墙面上似乎已经挂不下地图了，除非主人愿意把一幅挂毯取下来。那条挂毯原是冈萨雷斯母亲挂在老家房里的装饰物。
Mr. Magnus was more confident. “We visited the Soane’s Museum in London,” he said, referring to the house stuffed with the eccentric collections of the 18th-century architect Sir John Soane. “He has things behind doors and layers of goods, so that if you move one thing, you’d find many more behind that.”
马格努斯对此并不担心。“我们在伦敦参观了索恩博物馆(Soane’s Museum)，”他说，那里陈列着18世纪的建筑师约翰·索恩爵士(Sir John Soane)的一系列古怪藏品，“他连门背后也放着东西，藏品摆了一层又一层。所以你如果搬走一样，就会发现后面还有更多其他东西。”
After seeing that, Mr. Magnus said, a reassuring thought occurred to them. “We can do this: We can live with what we have.”
马格努斯说，看到那种收纳方法后，他们一颗悬着的心就放下了。“我们也可以这样：我们可以在自己的藏品当中生活。”