On a rocky, sloping terrain near the Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii, Christiane Heinicke, a 30-year-old German physicist and engineer, is one of six researchers conducting a yearlong simulation of life on Mars.
在夏威夷冒纳罗亚火山附近一个岩石遍布的山坡上，包括30岁的德国物理学家、工程师克里斯蒂亚娜·海尼克(Christiane Heinicke)在内的六名研究人员正在模拟火星上的生活。这项模拟活动将持续一年。
The group, part of the NASA-funded HI-SEAS project, began living at the habitat in August. They are the fourth group to take up residence there, and will be staying longer than any before them. The work requires Ms. Heinicke to live in a 1,000-square-foot domed structure with five other people. Escaping cabin fever is possible, but it requires wearing a mock spacesuit outside.
他们是NASA出资的HI-SEAS项目的一部分，从8月开始在那处住所里生活。他们也是第四个在那里生活的团体，停留时间将比之前所有团队都长。这项工作要求海尼克和另外五个人住在一个1000平方英尺（约合93平方米）大的圆顶形建筑里。逃离里面的封闭环境是可以的，但在屋外需要穿上仿制的太空服。
Life in the habitat can be isolating: During the attacks in Paris in November, Ms. Heinicke said she and her colleagues tried to keep up with the news on a delayed Internet connection.
生活在小屋里有时会让人觉得与世隔绝：巴黎11月遇袭期间，海尼克说她和同事尝试通过延迟的网络连接了解相关新闻。
But the group hopes that its work will be helpful for any real missions to the red planet, and can be found actively documenting daily life on Twitter.
但他们希望，自己的工作有助于现实生活中前往那颗红色星球的任何任务。人们可以看到，他们在Twitter上积极地记录着日常生活。
Ms. Heinicke shared more about her life on “Mars”:
海尼克介绍了更多和她的“火星”生活有关的情况。
What about this experience has surprised you? 
这次经历中，让你吃惊的地方是什么？
The first thing to surprise me was how spacious the habitat appears on the inside. It has a bit more than 1,000 square feet distributed over two floors, which is pretty small for six people.
让我吃惊的第一件事是，从里面看这里挺宽敞的。但实际上这里只略大于1000平方英尺，还分成了两层，对六个人来说相当小了。
Now, being a bit further into the mission, I am mostly surprised as to how much being confined affects me. I expected to miss the feeling of the sun on my skin and the wind, but the lack of those turned out to be not the most difficult part about being inside. It is the not being able to walk in a straight line for more than 10 seconds.
如今，任务已经进行了一段时间，我吃惊的主要是空间的限制对我的影响之大。我本以为会想念阳光照在身上和微风拂面的感觉，但结果感受不到阳光和风并不是在里面生活最大的困难。而是不能保持直线行走10秒钟以上。
What sorts of foods do you eat on “Mars”? 
你们在“火星”上吃的东西是什么样的？
Almost anything that you would find in a household on Earth. All our supplies are shelf-stable: Powdered eggs and milk, freeze-dried chicken, freeze-dried vegetables, clarified butter, dried fruits and tons of spices. We also have chocolate and some other snacks. Really, I am probably eating more healthily than during my life as a single before the start of the mission.
我们吃的几乎都是你们在地球家庭里能找到的东西。我们所有的供给都是耐储存的：鸡蛋粉和奶粉、经过冷冻干燥的鸡肉和蔬菜、经过净化的黄油、水果干和大量调味品。我们还有巧克力和其他一些零食。真的，我现在可能比任务开始前，自己作为一个单身人士吃得更健康。
What creature comforts are missing in your habitat? 
你们的住处缺什么物质享受？
None, actually. We are surprisingly well equipped: We have a common area with work spaces, a dining table, a treadmill and other sports equipment, some board games and a projector, among other things. It probably helps that we did not expect much to begin with, because a mission to Mars would only be able to bring the most essential items.
实际上什么都不缺。我们的设备出人意料得齐全：我们有一个公共区域，里面有工作区、一张餐桌、一台跑步机和其他运动器材、一些棋盘游戏、一台投影仪，还有其他东西。我们一开始没抱太大期望这一点，可能起到了帮助作用，因为参加火星任务时，可能只能带最基本的物品。
What’s the Internet situation like? 
网络情况怎么样？
Since we are on “Mars,” all our messages travel through interplanetary space for 20 minutes one way before they reach Earth. That is true for emails, web browsing and Skyping, for example. Since nobody wants to wait 40 minutes for an answer during a conversation, we don’t use Skype, or any other form of real-time conversation. We communicate with our families only by email, or video recordings that are attached to an email.
自从住在“火星”上以后，我们所有的信息都要在星际空间中单程传输20分钟，才能达到地球。电子邮件、网页浏览和通过Skype交流都是这样的。因为谁都不想在交谈中为了一个答复等40分钟，所以我们不用Skype，或其他任何形式的实时对话。我们只通过电子邮件，或电子邮件的视频附件和家人交流。
Have you developed any new hobbies?
你养成什么新爱好了吗？
I do have a new hobby, but certainly not because I have more time here. It is true that we save a lot of time by not having to go shopping, not commuting and not having to answer phone calls. However, we are still full-time researchers working on our projects and, in addition, do have to spend more time on household tasks than on Earth.
我的确养成了一个新习惯，但肯定不是因为我在这里有更多时间。的确，因为不用去逛街、不用往返上班、不用接电话，我们节省了很多时间。然而，我们依然是有项目在身的全职研究人员，另外我们在家务上花的时间也的确比在地球上多。
For example, before we can cook any of our food, we need to re-hydrate it; and if we have a power outage, we cannot simply call the electrical supply company, but we have to troubleshoot it ourselves, maybe with help over our time-delayed Internet. Your work days get longer, if you have to do everything yourself.
比如，在烹制任何食物前，我们都需要给它重新补充水分。要是停电了，我们不能简单地给电力供应公司打电话，而是要自己解决问题，或许也会通过延迟的网络得到一些帮助。如果什么事都要自己动手，工作时间是会变长的。
So, what is my new hobby? I teach myself how to play the harmonica, because it is small enough to have a good chance of being allowed on a trip to Mars, unlike the piano that I played before.
那么我的新爱好是什么呢？我在自学吹口琴，因为口琴够小，很有可能在去火星时允许带上，不像我之前弹的钢琴。
Do you want to actually make the first journey to Mars — currently slated for 2025? 
你真的想参加目前定于2025年的首次火星任务吗？
Yes and no. If there is a return trip guaranteed, I would love to set foot on a different planet and prove it is possible to survive there. However, realistically, I will probably be too old by the time the first mission is sent to Mars. So instead, my goal in life is to conduct interesting research, hopefully to the benefit of mankind — and to be happy.
又想又不想。要是保证能回得来，我愿意踏上另一个星球，证明可能可以在那里活下去。然而现实地说，到首次派人前往火星时，我的年纪可能太大了。所以，我的人生目标是进行有趣的研究，但愿有利于人类，并且要快乐。