A CONTEMPORARY CHALET ON LAKE ANNECY
待售房产：安纳西湖(lake Annecy)边的一栋当代木屋别墅
3 MILLION EUROS ($4 MILLION)
价格：300万欧元（400万美元，约合人民币2517万元）
This 2003 chalet, built of concrete and siding construction, is on the desirable east side of Lake Annecy in the community of Veyrier du Lac. It has four bedrooms and three baths over 2,600 square feet of living space, as well as a four-car garage. The terraced property has a spacious deck and a heated 12-meter-long pool, and half an acre of landscaped gardens fall away to the lake several hundred feet below.
这栋建于2003年的混凝土与壁板构造的木屋别墅位于韦里耶湖(Veyrier-du-Lac)居住区，坐落在迷人的安纳西湖东岸。房屋有四间卧室和三间浴室，面积2600平方英尺（约241.5平米），带有一间四车位的车库。这处房产位于一片山坡平地上，有一个空旷的露台和一个12米长的温水游泳池，以及一座占地半英亩（约2023平方米）的园林式花园，一直延伸到山脚下几百英尺（约百米左右）远的湖边。
On the first floor, a double-height row of windows face west in the living room, which has a fireplace. The owner, a restaurateur and hotelier, has equipped the kitchen with professional-grade appliances, said the listing agent, Benoît Clerc of Agence Clerc in Veyrier du Lac. Also on the first floor are a television room and a master suite with a dressing area. The second floor has three bedrooms and two baths.
一楼的客厅里有一排西向的落地窗，屋内还有一座壁炉。身为餐厅与旅馆老板的房东，在厨房里配备了专业级的设施，据该房源的经纪人、韦里耶湖地区克莱克房地产中介公司(Agnce Clerc)的贝努瓦·克莱克(Benoit Clerc)说。此外，一楼还有一间电视房(television room)及一个带有更衣室的主卧套间。二楼有三间卧室和两间浴室。
The house has a furnished basement, and the garage has a 430-square-foot utility room.
这栋房屋有一间家具齐全的地下室。另外，车库中还有一间430平方英尺（约131平方米）的杂物间。
Boating and water-skiing access to the nine-mile-long lake are within a few minutes’ walk. The city of Annecy, with its picturesque Palais de l’Ile and renowned Sunday market, is about 10 minutes away by car, though shopping and amenities are available in Veyrier du Lac. The Grand Bornand and Clusaz ski areas are about 30 minutes’ drive. The Geneva airport is less than 45 minutes’ drive.
要想到9英里（约14.5公里）长的湖面上划船和滑水，步行只需几分钟时间。而安纳西市(the city of Annecy)这座拥有风景如画的利勒宫(Palais de l’Ile)与著名的周日集市的城市，距此也只有10分钟的车程。不过韦里耶湖附近也有商店和便民设施。大博尔南(Grand Bornand)与克吕萨(Clusaz)滑雪场开车30分钟可到。而日内瓦机场距此地不到45分钟的车程。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Geography plays an outsize role in the Lake Annecy market, agents said: the eastern shore is much more desirable — and expensive — because the setting sun bathes it in a rich Alpine light until 9 or 10 p.m. in summer. Conversely, as the sun sets behind the steep western peaks, homes on that side of the lake fall into shadow by midafternoon. And as a further inducement, the east side has less traffic than the west.
地理位置在安纳西市的房地产市场中发挥着关键作用，地产经纪人说，安纳西湖东岸更具吸引力，房产价格也更高，因为在夏季里，直到晚上9点或10点前，落日可以让东岸一直沐浴在阿尔卑斯山充足的日照里。相反，由于太阳落在西边陡峭的山峰后面，湖西岸的住宅到下午3点左右就进入阴影中了。另外更吸引人的是，东岸没有西岸那么多车来车往。
“You want to be on the east side, because you want as much sun as possible,” said Mike Braunholtz, the sales director of the Prestige Property Group, a British company that markets luxury properties in Europe. “Those mountain views with the light at the end of the day are what people are looking for.”
“你想要住在东岸，是因为你想尽量多地晒晒太阳，”威望房地产集团(Prestige Property Group)的销售主管迈克·布朗霍尔茨(Mike Braunholtz)说。这是一家在欧洲销售豪宅的英国公司。“人们想要的正是日暮余晖中的山峰美景。”
But Jean-Luc Caillat, the sales director of Vallat Real Estate in Annecy, did make a pitch for the west side. “When you live on the west,” he said, “in summer it is quite beautiful, and the weather is cooler. You have views of the sun settting on the mountains.”
不过，安纳西市瓦莱特房地产公司(Vallat Real Estate)的销售主管让-吕克·凯雷(Jean-Luc Caillat)却把西岸的房子卖得很好。“你住在西岸时，”他说，“夏季能看到美丽的风景，天气也更为凉爽。你会看见太阳在群山中缓缓落下。”
Apartments, many with lake views, are available in and around the city of Annecy for under 1 million euros ($1.34 million), and are selling quite briskly, Mr. Caillat said. Buyers have a choice of properties either with direct lake access or at higher elevations with panoramic views. Mr. Clerc said a typical 2,000-square-foot chalet in the main east side communities of Veyrier du Lac, Menthon Saint-Bernard or Talloires with a small pool would sell for about 1.5 million euros ($2 million).
安纳西市周围的公寓当中，很多都是湖景房，价格不到100万欧元（134万美元，约合人民币840万元），而且卖得非常快，凯雷说。买家既可以选择直接与湖岸相通的房产，也可以选择位置较高、可以眺望全景的房子。克莱克说，在韦里耶湖畔，一栋位于类似芒通-圣贝尔纳(Menthon Saint-Bernard)或塔卢瓦尔(Talloires)这样的东岸主要居住区内的2000平方英尺（约185.8平方米）、带一个小泳池的经典木屋别墅，售价大约为150万欧元（200万美元，约合人民币1260万元）。
Overseas buyers fleeing unstable economies and the continuing popularity of lakefront property have helped Annecy weather the European financial crisis better than most areas, agents said. Both Mr. Clerc and Mr. Caillat said that 2011 was the market’s best year, with prices returning to 2007 levels.
逃避不稳定经济形势的海外买家，以及滨湖房产的持续热销，帮助安纳西市优于大多数地区，安稳度过了欧洲的经济危机，经纪人们这样说。克莱克和凯雷都称，2011年是市场状况最好的一年，价格回到了2007年的水平。
There was a hiccup in 2012, as France awaited the policies of François Hollande, who ran for president on a platform of raising taxes on the wealthy.
2012年时发生过小幅回落，那时候法国还在等弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的政策出台。他竞选总统的主张是提高对富人的税收。
“Today we are back on the level of 2007, but down from a peak in 2011,” Mr. Clerc said. “The peak was a bit after other places. We didn’t really experience the crisis.”
“今天我们虽然回到了2007年的水平，但相比2011年的峰值还是有所回落的，”克莱克说，“那轮峰值比其它地方发生得稍晚一些。我们毕竟没有真正经历这场危机。”
WHO BUYS IN ANNECY
谁在安纳西买房
Mr. Caillat, whose agency has 25 offices in the Alps region, said about 30 percent of buyers in the city of Annecy and around the lake were local, 30 percent were from Paris or Lyon, and the rest were British, American or Russian. More recently, Mr. Clerc said, residents of Gulf states like Qatar have bought some of the most expensive properties around the lake.
凯雷所属的地产公司在阿尔卑斯地区有25家分公司，他说，安纳西市和安纳西湖周围的买家大约有30%都是当地人，还有30%来自巴黎或里昂(Lyon)，其余的则是英国人、美国人或俄罗斯人。就在不久之前，克莱克说，有卡塔尔(Qatar)等海湾国家的居民购买了几处安纳西湖周围最贵的房产。
Mr. Braunholtz said the number of British buyers had declined in recent years, though “we’ve had quite had few inquiries from Arab areas and Russia,” from people in search of high-end real estate “as an alternative investment.”
布朗霍尔茨说，近年来，英国买家的数量已经有所下降，不过“我们已经接到一些来自阿拉伯地区和俄罗斯买家的询价，”他们在寻找高端房产“作为一种另类投资”。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreigners in France. Agents charge a fee of about 5 percent, paid by the seller.
法国对外国买家没有限制。地产经纪人收取5%的佣金，由卖家支付。
All transactions must go through a notary public, who oversees the contract and closing, handles negotiations, and collects all transaction taxes and fees owed to the government. Notary fees and transaction taxes together are typically about 7 percent of the sales price, and are paid by the buyer. Many foreign buyers retain a lawyer, though this is not required.
所有交易都必须由公证人经手。公证人负责监督合同和房产交割，处理双方议价，并代为收取所有应缴纳政府的交易税费。公证费和交易税一般约占房屋售价的7%，由买家支付。很多外国买家会聘请一位律师，虽然这并不是必须的。
French inheritance and capital-gains taxes can be high compared with those of other countries. In an effort to jump-start the property market, Mr. Hollande this year rolled back the number of years before properties become exempt from capital gains to 22 years from 30.
与其它国家相比，法国的遗产税和资本利得税可能比较高。为了启动房地产市场，今年，奥朗德将可获得资本利得税豁免的房产保有年限，从30年降回到了22年。
WEB SITES:
网址：
Lake Annecy tourism office: lac-annecy.com 
安纳西湖旅游办公室：lac-annecy.com
City of Annecy: Annecy.eu
安纳西市官方网站：Annecy.eu
Ski areas: skiresorts.com
滑雪场：skiresorts.com
Home buying in France: credit-agricole.fr
法国购房网：credit-agricole.fr
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
French; euro (1 euro=$1.34)
法语；欧元（1欧元=1.34美元，约合人民币8.4元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Property taxes are about 4,000 euros a year ($5,400).
房产税约为每年4000欧元（5400美元，约合人民币3.36万元）
CONTACT
联系方式
Benoît Clerc, Agence Clerc (33) 4 50 64 88 88; agence-clerc.com
贝努瓦·克莱克(Benoit Clerc)，Agence Clerc (33) 4 50 64 88 88 agence-clerc.com