Manhattan may be a bit large to be considered a college town. But the rapid expansion of dozens of postsecondary schools across the borough in recent years has added a hard-to-ignore collegiate flavor.
作为一个大学城，曼哈顿可能太大了一点。但是近年来，随着大专院校在这里迅速扩张，曼哈顿也增添了一丝不容忽视的学院氛围。
As enrollments have surged, so too have the number of dormitories, which are increasingly being built not by the universities themselves, but by third-party developers, who take on site acquisition, construction and leasing.
随着入学人数飙升，寝室的数量也水涨船高，只不过越来越多的寝室不是由大学自己兴建，而是由第三方开发商自己买地、修建再对外出租。
Clustered mostly downtown, and occasionally many blocks from main campuses, these dorms have been the targets of critics who contend they add an unruly element to neighborhoods. Others argue that developers are merely interested in dorms as a bait-and-switch ploy to get around zoning rules, as they are usually permitted to be larger than apartment buildings.
这些宿舍大多集中在闹市区，有的甚至距离学校主校区好几个街区。一些评论人批评说，它们给当地社区增加了不稳定因素，也有人认为这些开发商的醉翁之意不在酒，修宿舍的真正的意图是绕开一些土地规划的政策，让这些楼可以比一般公寓楼修得更大些。
But eager to capitalize on strong demand, developers say they are willing to put up with a little pushback.
不过，为了不错过这波有利可图的巨大需求，开发商们纷纷表示愿意忍受些许的滞后。
“There’s not enough space in Manhattan, and Manhattan is where students want to be,” said Brett Herschenfeld, a senior vice president with SL Green Realty Corporation, a major commercial landlord known for its office towers that has begun developing dormitories.
“曼哈顿没有那么多空间，但是学生又都想住在这里，”大型商业地产公司SL Green的高级副总裁布雷特·何谢恩菲尔德(Brett Herschenfeld)先生说。他的公司就以将办公大楼改造成寝室而著称。
A recent example is 180-182 Broadway, a 23-story dorm at John Street in the financial district that SL Green, along with Wharton Properties and the Harel Group, an Israeli insurance company, built for nearby Pace University.
最近的一个例子就是金融区百老汇街180-182号毗邻约翰街的一幢23层的宿舍楼，这幢宿舍楼由SL Green和Wharton Properties及以色列保险公司Harel Group共同开发，其客户就是附近的佩斯大学(Pace University)。
About 230 rooms in the top 20 floors of the building provide housing for around 600 students and are leased to Pace for 30 years.
这座楼里，最上面20层的约230个房间都租给了佩斯大学作为学生宿舍，租期整30年，可以容纳大约600名学生。
The developers are hanging on to a window-lined retail space at the base of the building, which faces the new Fulton Center transit hub. In 2014, two tenants, Urban Outfitters and TD Bank, will open locations in the space, which is a commercial condo, Mr. Herschenfeld said. The commercial condo arrangement is a way for a nonprofit organization like Pace to separate retail development from more traditional uses of its property.
此外，开发商还在大楼底部留出了一个有整排玻璃窗的商铺区，面朝新建的地铁枢纽富顿中心(Fulton Center)。据何谢恩菲尔德透露，该大楼的商铺区在2014年将迎来两个租户，分别是服饰品牌Urban Outfitters和银行TD Bank，而这里也将成为一个共管式的商业物业中心。对佩斯大学这样的非盈利机构来说，商用共管物业中心这样的设置可以帮它把商业开发区和用作更传统用途的区域划分开来。
For decades, Pace was primarily a commuter school and made do with dorms at One Pace Plaza, a 1969 building across from City Hall that has 500 beds, as well as classrooms and a library.
在过去的几十年里，佩斯大学都是一所需要通勤的大学，以前还可以勉强把学生安置在佩斯广场1号的宿舍楼，也就是纽约市政厅对面一幢建于1969年的大楼，里面除了500个学生床位，还有多间教室和一个图书馆。
But today, Pace enrolls 5,500 undergraduates in Manhattan, up from 4,700 in 2008, officials say (the university also has a campus in suburban Pleasantville, N.Y.). And many come from out of state, with 72 percent of this year’s first-year students living in dorms, said William McGrath, Pace’s chief administrative officer.
不过在现在，据校方称，佩斯大学在曼哈顿校区招收的本科生已多达5500名，而这一数字在2008年是4700人（除了曼哈顿，该大学在纽约州普莱森特维尔郊区还有一个校区）。据佩斯大学的行政主管威廉·麦格拉斯(William McGrath)先生透露，这些学生很多都是来自别的州，今年的新生就有72%都住在寝室。
Around the corner, SL Green, in a partnership with the Naftali Group and Harel, is also at work on 33 Beekman Street, a new 34-story, 384-room dorm for 770 students that will have a small bookstore at street level and a fitness center upstairs. The high-rise, which Pace will also lease for 30 years, is to open in 2015.
只隔一个街角，SL Green公司还和Naftali集团及Harel集团一起在比克门街33号开发另一所学生公寓。该公寓高34层，有384个房间，可容纳770名学生，临街的底楼有一家小书店，二楼还有健身中心。整座大楼计划于2015年投入运营，并且也将由佩斯大学租用30年。
Record-high land costs, coupled with a desire not to mire balance sheets in debt because of expensive construction projects, has made leasing attractive to many schools.
对很多学校来说，创纪录的地皮费及高昂的建筑工程费都让租赁宿舍看来更有吸引力，因为学校也不想让自己深陷债务的泥潭。
“It wasn’t feasible to build new dorms ourselves,” said Mr. McGrath, who initially talked with landlords about converting empty offices to dorms. Ultimately, though, he decided it was easier to create small, shareable rooms in a custom-built facility.
“我们自己为学生修新宿舍是行不通的，”麦格拉斯先生说；虽然他最开始和很多房东商量着把空置的办公室改造成宿舍，不过最终还是觉得在一幢定制建筑里修建可以多人合住的小房间更加容易。
For dorm life, Pace students pay $15,800 for the nine-month academic year, or about $1,760 a month, which includes furniture and utilities. In contrast, a typical downtown studio, which does not come with beds or electricity, is about $2,700 a month, according to a Douglas Elliman rental report from November.
在佩斯大学，学生每学年（九个月）为寝室支付的住宿费是15800美元，也就是约1760美元每月，其中包含了家具及电器设备。而与之相对，普天寿德爱地产公司(Douglas Elliman)在去年11月发布的一份租金报告中称，纽约闹市区一间普通的单间公寓的租金为每月2700美元，还不含床位和电费。
Based on the differential in rents, it might be tough to understand why developers would build dorms instead of conventional apartments. But, as brokers point out, dorms can pack in far more tenants.
就租金的差异来看，或许很难理解为什么开发商更愿意修建寝室而非传统公寓，然而地产经纪人却道破了其中的天机，那就是寝室能容纳更多的住客，比起传统公寓来要多得多。
“You’re putting four people into spaces that are usually for one or two,” said Robert Knakal, chairman of Massey Knakal Realty Services, a commercial brokerage. “So on a cost-per-square-foot basis, you’re getting pretty high rents.”
“寝室可以在通常只住一两个人的空间里挤进四个人，”Massey Knakal房地产服务公司的董事长罗伯特·奈卡尔(Robert Knakal)先生说，“所以以每平方英尺的平均租金来看，学生寝室的租金是很高的。”
Developers might have other motives. Zoning rules often permit dorm buildings to be as much as twice the size of apartment buildings; they get a bonus because they are affiliated with education and thus ostensibly benefit the community.
不过，开发商们或许还有其他动机。据相关土地规划条例规定，学生宿舍楼可以建得比普通公寓大一倍，而这种优待正是因为它们与教育相关，表面上是对社区建设有利。
Those extra-roomy buildings could eventually be converted to apartments, according to Mr. Knakal and other brokers, even though a change of use would officially require zoning approval.
不过据奈卡尔先生和其他地产经纪人透露，这些占地宽裕的大楼最终还是可以被改建为普通公寓，虽然这样的建筑用途变更在政策上也要经过土地管理条例的允许。
Yet even the existence of dorms can be contentious. In the East Village, where New York University has a large presence, complaints about drunken, rowdy student behavior are frequent.
不过，即便就是这些宿舍也可以引起诸多争议。在纽约大学所在的东村区，居民就对醉酒喧闹的学生有诸多投诉。
A plan by Singer Financial Corporation to convert a former public school at 605 East Ninth Street, near Avenue B, into a 535-bed dormitory to be leased by several colleges, including Cooper Union, has also met stiff resistance.
此外，位于东九街605号靠近B大道的一所前公立小学被Singer金融财团看中，计划将其改造成有535个床位的宿舍，出租给多所大学，包括库珀联合学院(Cooper Union)，不过这一计划也遭到了强硬抵制。
Ben Shaoul, the president of Magnum Real Estate Group, a residential developer who also has recently branched out into student housing, says the “no dorms in my backyard” crowd doesn’t get it.
在玛格南房地产集团(Magnum Real Estate Group)总裁本·绍尔(Ben Shaoul)先生看来，那些“不能容忍自家后院有宿舍”的人还没弄清个中的道理，而这家住宅房产开发公司也在最近开始涉足了学生宿舍领域。
“How can people say that they want New York be the greatest city in the world, but they don’t want students living here?” Mr. Shaoul said. “Those students are the future of our city.”
“很多人说自己希望纽约成为世界上最伟大的城市，一边又不希望学生住进来，这怎么可能呢？”绍尔先生说。“这些学生就是我们城市的未来。”
His current project is for the steadily growing School of Visual Arts, whose undergraduate enrollment is 3,600. To be situated at 340 East 24th Street, at First Avenue, the 14-story building would house around 500 students atop 11,000 square feet of retail space. Magnum is partnering with 40 North Management, an investment firm, on the project, which is expected to break ground this winter.
而他公司手头上的一个项目就是为纽约视觉艺术学院(School of Visual Arts)修建宿舍楼；近年来，该学院的规模一直稳定增长，目前本科招人人数为3600人。该宿舍楼位于纽约东24街340号近第一大道，高14层，可容纳约500名学生，宿舍下面还有1.1万平方英尺（约合1022平方米）的商铺区。整个项目由玛格南集团和投资公司40 North Management合作开展，预计在今冬破土动工。
Like many developers, Mr. Shaoul says the term “dorm” does not do justice to the modern-day version, as it suggests banal cinder blocks, instead of something more stylish like a luxury hotel.
和很多开发商一样，在绍尔先生看来，用“宿舍”这个词来描述现代学生寝室是有点不合时宜了，因为它给人的印象还是老旧的煤渣砖房，而现代的学生宿舍已经非常时髦，足以媲美豪华酒店。
The $90 million School of Visual Arts project, designed by Ismael Leyva, will offer a seventh-floor terrace with lounge chairs and pedestals to display student sculptures, as well as an outdoor theater.
譬如纽约视觉艺术学院这个学生宿舍项目就耗资9000万美元，由伊斯梅尔·莱瓦(Ismael Leyva)设计，在七楼将建有露台，上面布置着各色休闲椅和用来陈列学生雕塑作品的底台，还有一个户外剧院。
Similarly, Cornell NYC Tech, the graduate school planned for Roosevelt Island, has announced that its first dormitory will offer a roof deck, screening rooms and a fitness center.
与之相似，计划建于罗斯福岛的康奈尔大学纽约市技术学院校区(Cornell NYC Tech Campus)也已经对外宣布，它的第一幢宿舍楼将有屋顶露台、几间放映室以及一个健身中心。
The $100 million facility, which will house 540 people, will be developed by a partnership of the Hudson Companies, the Related Companies and Cornell, though Related will collect rents from students, according to a Related spokeswoman.
这幢计划中的大楼耗资一亿美元，可容纳540名住客，由房地产公司Hudson Companies、Related Companies和康奈尔大学联合开发，但是据Related Companies一位发言人称，学生的租金将由Related收取。
Not all dorms are being outsourced. Though the Durst Organization handled construction of the New School’s University Center, a residential and classroom complex at 65 Fifth Avenue, at 14th Street, the building is owned and operated by the college.
不过，也不是所有大学的寝室都是外包的，如新学院大学(The New School)在纽约第五大道65号近第14街新建的大学中心(University Center)就是由Durst Organization公司负责修建，但所有权归该大学自有，并自主管理，集住宿与教室为一体。
Designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, the brass-paneled $352 million tower opened its 617-student residential portion, Kerrey Hall, this fall; the classrooms will follow this winter.
此外，这幢综合大楼由SOM建筑设计事务所(Skidmore, Owings and Merrill) 设计，耗资3.52亿美元，铺有黄铜镶板，住宅区称为“克雷堂”(Kerrey Hall)，可容纳617名学生，已于去年秋天投入使用，教学区也即将于冬天启用。
But the New School has taken advantage of a mixed-use model, too, even if it may be at odds with the classic image of the Georgian-style, ivy-draped college building: the dorm has an 8,000-square-foot corner retail space, which is currently available at $400 a square foot.
不过，新学院大学也利用了混合型建筑用途的优点，即便和爬满常青藤的乔治亚风格大学建筑形象或许不那么相符：这幢宿舍大楼也有一个面积8000平方英尺（约合732平方米）的转角零售区，目前正以400美元每平方英尺的价格招租。
“Dorms are built differently in the ’burbs,” said Jeffrey Roseman, an executive vice president at Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, which is marketing the space. “You’re also not going to put administrative offices on the ground floor. It’s just too valuable.”
“郊区的宿舍和其他地方不太一样，”负责营销这片零售区的商业地产公司Newmark Grubb Knight Frank执行副总裁杰弗里·罗思曼(Jeffrey Roseman)先生说：“你也不会把行政办公室放在一楼，因为那儿的空间实在太值钱了。”