Let’s take a road trip back in time to, say, 1999.
让我们来一场回到从前的公路旅行，比如说，1999年。
It’s the start of your summer beach vacation. Upon arrival, you unpack, slather your sexy self in sunscreen and head to the beach. You bring a paperback book and a fancy new yellow Sony CD player. You have a drink, read a little and relax.
开启你的夏日海滩度假之旅。到达之后，你打开行李，给性感的自己涂上厚厚的防晒霜，向海滩出发。带上一本平装书和新买的时髦的黄色索尼CD播放器。喝上一杯，读会儿书，放松身心。
When your friends show up, you snap a few group photos with a disposable film camera (there’s no such thing as a selfie yet) and hope they turned out O.K. It’s heaven.
朋友们到了以后，你们用一次性胶卷相机照几张合影（那时候还没有自拍这回事），希望照得还可以。一切都美妙极了。
Fast forward to our vacations today.
快进到我们现在的假期。
You set off on a much-needed summer break. The second you land, you check your cellphone and are greeted by a flood of messages. After an hour sitting in your hotel room replying to work emails, you finally go to the beach.
你身心俱疲，终于踏上了夏日度假的旅程。一落地，你查看手机，发现收到一堆短信。在酒店房间里花一个小时回复工作邮件之后，你终于到了海滩。
You pull out your iPad to read a book and, oh, look: You have a message on Facebook, not to mention WhatsApp, Snapchat and Twitter.
你拿出iPad看书，哦，瞧：你的Facebook上有一条新消息，更别提WhatsApp、Snapchat和Twitter上的消息了。
And because the beach is so beautiful, it’s probably a good idea to take an Instagram. After a hundred attempts to capture the best and most original photo of a beach ever taken, you spend another hour seeing how many “likes” your photo got.
海滩如此美丽，在Instagram上发张照片是个不错的主意。你拍啊拍，拍了不知道多少张照片，终于拍到一张最美、最新颖的海滩照，然后再花一个小时看看你的照片得到多少个赞。
More messages come in. You end up getting stressed about all the work emails you have to respond to back at the hotel.
然后你收到更多消息。结果，你开始为回到酒店后必须回复所有的工作邮件而感到焦虑。
One obvious remedy is to leave your smartphone and tablet at home. But that ignores the fact that our devices have replaced some vacation essentials, including physical books, magazines, music player, cameras, maps and in-flight entertainment.
一个显而易见的解决办法是把你的智能手机和平板电脑留在家里。但是那样就忽视了这个事实：这些电子设备已经取代了一些度假必需品，包括纸质书、杂志、音乐播放器、相机、地图和飞机上的娱乐品。
Believe it or not, there are ways to unplug that don’t require downgrading to a CD player.
不管你信不信，有很多办法能让你不使用电子产品，而且不至于倒退到使用CD播放器的地步。
The simplest solution is to put your phone into airplane mode the moment your vacation begins. This way, you can still listen to music, take photos and read, but you can’t connect to the Internet and get sucked into the black hole of wasting time.
最简单的办法是假期一开始就把手机调成飞行模式。这样你仍能听音乐、拍照、读书，但你不能上网，这样你就不会被吸进浪费时间的黑洞里。
If you have legitimate travel-related reasons to access the Web — for, say, driving directions or restaurant recommendations — go to your phone’s settings to enable (or disable) the cellular data capabilities for certain apps. Turn on maps and apps like Yelp and Foursquare; turn off email and social media apps like Facebook and Twitter.
如果是为了跟旅行有关的正当理由上网，比如寻找驾驶路线或餐厅推荐，那你就在手机设置里为某些应用程序开通（或关闭）蜂窝数据。打开地图以及Yelp和Foursquare等应用程序；关闭电子邮件以及Facebook和Twitter等社交媒体应用程序。
For those inclined to cheat, I would tell them to delete the most tempting apps from their phone, whether it’s Instagram or Snapchat. And rather than bringing an iPad on vacation, try a print book or Kindle.
对那些容易作弊的人，我会让他们删除手机上最吸引人的应用程序，不管是Instagram还是Snapchat。度假时不要带iPad，而是带纸质书或Kindle。
I know what you’re thinking here. What if someone from work or home really needs to get hold of me?
讲到这里，我知道你在想什么。要是同事或家人真的需要联系我怎么办？
Danny Cohen, director of television at BBC, told me that once a year his entire family sets off on a two-week vacation and they all leave their smartphones at home. When I asked what happens if there is a work-related emergency, he said a limited number of people have the hotel name and room number where he is staying, and can call if need be.
BBC的电视主管丹尼·科恩(Danny Cohen)告诉我，每年他全家出去度假两周，所有人都把手机留在家里。我问他，要是工作上是出现紧急情况怎么办，他说少数几个人知道他住的酒店名字和房间号，如果需要可以给他打电话。
And guess what? No one calls. It turns out, most work emergencies aren’t really work emergencies. Picking up the phone to disturb a colleague’s vacation is a lot harder than firing off an email.
你猜怎么着？根本没人打。结果证明，工作上的紧急情况大多都不是那么紧急。拿起电话打扰一位同事的假期比发邮件困难多了。
Still, for some, resisting that urge to check the phone or open the laptop while on vacation can be too difficult. For this group, I recommend paying to unplug.
不过，对某些人来说，度假时不看手机或不打开手提电脑实在太难了。对这部分人，我的建议是花钱让自己不使用电子产品。
There are places that not only advertise zero Internet access, but also have a strict no-gadgets policy. Camp Grounded, in Anderson Valley, Calif., for example, bills itself as a summer camp for grown-ups. While archery, potato printing and stilt-walking all sound like fun, the best part of this campground is that you have to hand over every piece of technology you have before you enter. This includes watches, phones and computers. A weekend without your gadgets costs $595.
有些地方不仅以完全不能上网为卖点，而且有严格的无电子产品规定。比如，加利福尼亚州安德森谷(Anderson Valley)的禁足夏令营(Camp Grounded)称自己是给成人开的夏令营。虽然射箭、土豆作画和踩高跷听起来都很有趣，但是这个营地最棒的一点是，进入之前，你必须上交所有的科技产品，包括手表、手机和电脑。想在这里度过一个没有电子产品的周末，你得花595美元。
The Renaissance Pittsburgh hotel has offered a Family Digital-Detox Package in the past, for entire families that want to unplug. According to its website, “Prior to your arrival, the television, phone and iHome dock station will be removed from your guest room and replaced with board games and playing cards.” (It sounds like a scene out of “The Shining.”)
过去，匹兹堡复兴酒店(Renaissance Pittsburgh)为整个家庭提供戒除数字产品上瘾的套餐(Family Digital-Detox Package)。酒店网站称，“在你到达之前，你房间里的电视机、电话和iHome将被移除，代之以棋类游戏和扑克”（这听起来像是电影《闪灵》[The Shining]中的一个场景）。
If you book a day at the Four Seasons Hotel Hampshire outside London, you will be asked to trade your digital devices for a “delicious detox smoothie.” And the Villa Stéphanie spa resort in Germany has even installed a copper grid in the walls to block out wireless signals.
如果你在伦敦郊区的罕布什尔四季酒店(Four Seasons Hotel Hampshire)下榻，你将被要求用数字设备交换“美味的戒瘾水果奶昔(smoothie)”。德国斯特凡尼别墅(Villa Stéphanie)温泉度假村甚至在墙上安装铜网，以屏蔽无线信号。
A slew of campgrounds and beaches around the world are deliberately not providing (or are limiting) Wi-Fi or cellular coverage, including those on Tristan da Cunha Island, a far-flung group of volcanic islands in the south Atlantic Ocean. The Sahara and the Grand Canyon are so vast that you can get no bars on your phone for miles (though you may need a device to find these places on Google).
世界各地的很多露营地和海滩故意不提供（或限制）无线或蜂窝信号，比如南大西洋偏远的火山岛特里斯坦-达库尼亚群岛(Tristan da Cunha Island)。撒哈拉沙漠和科罗拉多大峡谷非常广阔，你可能走上好长一段路手机都没信号（不过你可能需要一个电子设备通过谷歌地图找到这些地方）。
Another option, which could induce its own share of anxiety, is to charge your devices before leaving home, but don’t bring any chargers. This way, you know you have a limited amount of battery life, and won’t squander that time looking at Vine videos.
还有一个办法就是离家前把电子设备充好电，但是不带充电器。这样，你知道电量有限，就不会把它浪费在观看Vine的视频上。不过，这个办法本身会令人焦虑。
But I don’t think people should wait until vacation to unplug.
但是，我觉得人们不必等到度假时才不使用电子设备。
In recent months, I’ve started deleting some social media apps from my phone on weekends. Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat are removed entirely on Friday afternoons. On Monday morning, I reinstall everything for the workweek ahead.
最近几个月，我已经开始在周末删除手机上的一些社交媒体应用程序。周五下午，我把Twitter、Facebook、Instagram和Snapchat都清除干净。周一早上，我把它们重新装上，迎接新的一周。
If you still can’t stop yourself from logging on and checking in after all this, I have only one piece of advice left. Dunk your devices in water and replace them with an old yellow Sony Discman.
如果这些办法都不能阻止你登录查看，那我只有一个建议。把你的电子设备浸泡在水里，代之以老式的黄色索尼随身听。