TILAURAKOT, Nepal — Standing at the edge of a six-foot trench, an archaeologist from Nepal’s government peered down at a row of round holes — new evidence, he said, that below our feet lay a 2,500-year-old thatch-and-timber city where the Buddha lived until the age of 29.
尼泊尔梯罗拉柯提――一个尼泊尔政府的考古学家站在6英尺（约1.8米）宽的壕沟旁边，望着脚下的一排圆圆的大坑。他说，在我们脚下躺着一座拥有2500年历史，用茅草和木板搭建起来的城市，新的证据表明，佛陀曾经生活在这里，直到他年满29岁。
The archaeologist said he was thinking about the future, when thousands of pilgrims would be climbing down from rows of buses every year to see the ruins in the Nepalese town of Tilaurakot. “We are trying to compel them to spend money here,” he said.
这位考古学家说，他在想未来每年会有成千上万的朝圣者，坐着一辆辆的大巴，到梯罗拉柯提(Tilaurakot)这座尼泊尔小镇来参观这些废墟。“我们在想办法让他们在这里消费，”他说。
Similar enthusiasm could be detected about 17 miles away on the Indian side of the border, where India invites tourists to visit another site it claims are the ruins of the Buddha’s childhood home. Asked about the Nepali site, an Indian archaeologist sniffed. “The question doesn’t arise,” he said.
在约17英里（约27公里）之外的地方，也就是边界线另一头的印度，也可以感受到同样的热情——印度也在邀请旅游者们前往，观看另一处废墟，据称那是佛陀小时候住的地方。被问及尼泊尔的那处遗址，一名印度考古学家嗤之以鼻。“这根本就不是问题，”他说。
Begun in the glory days of the British Raj, this archaeological tug of war has remained unresolved for more than a century, of concern to virtually nobody. But changes are coming to the baking orange plains that straddle Nepal and India.
这个考古之争始于英国统治的全盛时期，一个多世纪之后还是没能解决。这个问题本来根本就没有人在乎。但是在这片阳光灼热、横跨尼泊尔与印度的橘红色平原上，事态发生了变化。
Buddhist history is an ever-more-serious business. China and India, two giants maneuvering for control in South Asia, have identified Buddhism as an instrument of soft power. In an area where, for centuries, Buddhism all but disappeared, a range of global stakeholders are investing in infrastructure to accommodate throngs of future pilgrims. India’s prize attraction is Bodh Gaya, the site where, it is believed, the Buddha attained enlightenment.
佛教的历史变得比以往更加重要。中国与印度这两家在南亚争夺控制权的巨头都把佛教当做软实力的工具。在这个地区，有那么几百年的时间，佛教近乎消失，如今一系列国际利益相关团体纷纷投资兴建基础设施，接待未来成群的朝圣者。印度最引以为傲的圣地是菩提伽耶(Bodh Gaya)，大家认为佛陀是在那里悟道的。
Nepal, increasingly aligned with Beijing, jealously guards its claim to the Buddha’s birth and early life.
越来越亲近北京的尼泊尔，则小心地捍卫着自己对佛陀出生地及其早年生活所在地的所有权。
“It is a matter of surprise that even today, in this 21st century, 2,500 years later than the time of Buddha’s birth, that it’s still a little bit confused,” said the Nepali prime minister, K. P. Sharma Oli, at a government-sponsored Buddhist conference in Kathmandu last month.
“令人惊讶的是，直到今天21世纪，佛陀出生2500年后，这个问题依旧令人有些不解，”上月，尼泊尔总理卡德加·普拉萨德·夏尔马·奥利(K. P. Sharma Oli)在加德满都召开的一次由政府主办的佛教大会上说道。
Buddhist lore has it that Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha, grew up within the luxurious setting of his father’s palace in the city of Kapilavastu, carefully guarded from any exposure to human suffering. When, at 29, Siddhartha stepped outside, he was confronted with the sight of the aged, the diseased and the dead, an experience that shook him so powerfully that he left his father’s home the following day, embracing life as an ascetic.
根据佛教故事，佛陀原名乔达摩·悉达多，从小在父王位于迦毗罗卫(Kapilavastu)的宫殿里过着奢华的生活，被小心看护着，以免见识人类的苦难。29岁那年，悉达多走到外面，目睹了人类的生老病死，受到极大震撼，翌日便离开了父王的宫殿，过上了苦行者的生活。
Until the time of the British Raj, there was little serious effort to determine where these events occurred. A powerful Hindu revival had rolled over the plains, extinguishing virtually all trace of the religion that had begun there. Then came the European Indologists, armed with the only shreds of evidence available: the accounts of Chinese monks who traveled the Buddha’s path in the fifth and seventh centuries A.D.
在英国统治时期之前，一直没有人认真考证这些事情发生在何处。强大的印度教复兴曾经席卷这片大陆，佛教虽然起源于此，但它的痕迹已经基本被清扫干净。后来欧洲涌现出一批印度学家，他们只有一点点证据——公元5世纪和7世纪追溯佛陀足迹的中国僧人的记述。
By the time the British withdrew, digs at two different locations had both declared victory. The modern border between Nepal and India had also come into existence, and the two claims, supported by fragmentary evidence and fired by nationalism, hardened into a cranky rivalry.
英国离开印度的时候，两处不同的佛教遗址皆宣告成功发掘。当时，现代尼泊尔与印度之间的边境已经存在，这两处遗址的存在建立在不完整的证据基础上，经过民族主义的煽动，演变成了一种恶性竞争。
“Engulfed in complete darkness, the scholars made a beginning in the direction of locating Kapilavastu like a wild-goose chase,” K. M. Srivastava, of the Archaeological Survey of India, wrote in a memoir of his expedition to the Indian town of Piprahwa.
“学者们完全被淹没在一团黑暗之中，一开始给迦毗罗卫定位的时候，就像白费力气的乱找，”印度考古研究所的K·M·斯里瓦斯塔瓦(K. M. Srivastava)在自己的回忆录中写道，该书的内容是关于他在印度小镇比普罗瓦(Piprahwa)的考察活动。
His discoveries, he wrote, a bit huffily, so infuriated a “particular set of scholars” that they “derived pleasure in indulging in the most unparliamentary language” questioning the identity of Kapilavastu.
他写道，自己的发现有点令人生气，激怒了“一批特定的学者”，他们质疑迦毗罗卫的确认，以至于“使用最肮脏的语言并以此为乐”。
The Indian consensus has held — at least in India, where tour operators market Piprahwa as “the place where the Buddha spent his childhood grappling with the overwhelming and puzzling problem of human existence.” This spring, India’s minister of culture opened a museum there, displaying evidence, mostly in the form of inscriptions on ancient seals, that was said to prove it was the true site of the Buddha’s childhood home.
印度人已经有了共识，至少在印度本土，旅游公司把比普罗瓦定位为“佛陀度过童年，并思考人生这个宏大而令人困惑的问题的地方”。今年春天，印度文化部在这里开办了一家博物馆，展示相关证据，主要是古代封印上的文字，据说可以证明，这里是佛陀真正的童年故乡。
Across the border in Tilaurakot, a Nepali-British team supported by Unesco has been plowing ahead with its own hypothesis: that an Indian-organized expedition in the late 1960s had simply stopped digging too early.
在边境另一侧的梯罗拉柯提，一个由联合国教科文组织(Unesco)提供支持的尼泊尔与英国联合团队正在努力证实自己的假设，他们认为，20世纪60年代末，一个由印度人组成的考察队过早地停止了在这里的开掘。
The leader of that Indian expedition, Debala Mitra, uncovered traces of a sprawling brick city, but she said it could not have been Kapilavastu because it had been built hundreds of years after the Buddha’s life. Last year, the Unesco-backed team cut down through the brick structures Ms. Mitra had found and discovered a second fortification whose ramparts were made of clay.
那个印度考察队的领队德芭拉·米特拉(Debala Mitra)发现了一座杂乱无序拓展的砖石城市的遗迹，但是她说，这里可能不是迦毗罗卫，因为它是在佛陀存在几百年后兴建的。去年，这支联合国教科文组织支持的团队进一步深入挖掘了米特拉所发现的砖石结构建筑，发现了第二处防御工事，其残骸是用陶土做成的。
Then they dug even farther, slowing their work to a crawl. They were watching for cylindrical depressions in the earth: evidence that under the clay fort had once stood timber fence posts, perhaps for so long that the wood had decayed, leaving a shell of earth behind.
然后他们进一步深入挖掘，放慢了工作的步调。他们想在地下寻找圆柱状的空洞，这能表明陶土城堡之下曾经有过木头栅栏支柱，经历了久远的年代，木头或许已经腐朽，但土地中的结构还留存着。
Six feet below the earth’s surface, they found them. The traces of hardened earth inside those holes, when analyzed in a laboratory, dated from the sixth century B.C., meaning they would have stood during the Buddha’s lifetime.
在地面6英尺（约1.8米）之下，他们发现了这些空洞。洞内还有夯实了的泥土痕迹，经过实验室分析，它们的时间可以追溯到公元前6世纪，也就是说，它们可能在佛陀生活的时期就存在。
In late April, a scorching heat settled on the plains, and workmen used wheelbarrows to refill trenches, shutting down the expedition for the hot season. Placards were erected, announcing that “it would have been on this roadway that Siddhartha traveled on toward the Eastern Gate before renouncing his princely life.” A wooden walkway was also built so that pilgrims who prostrated themselves would not become covered in mud.
4月底，这座平原上的天气已经非常炎热，因为热季的关系，考察要暂时中止，工人们用独轮车运送泥土，把壕沟重新填上。场地外竖起了告示牌，宣布，“悉达多可能就是从这条路向东门走去，放弃了王子生活”。这里还修建了一条木头过道，让匍匐叩首的朝圣者们不必粘上泥巴。
It was a bit hard to imagine a crowd there; the forest was empty except for a young boy, who was amusing himself by throwing stones. But Ram Bahadur Kunwar, from the Nepalese Department of Archaeology, paced the site of a central walled complex and spoke of great hopes.
很难想像大批人群会涌入这里；森林里空无一人，只有一个小男孩在扔石头取乐。但是尼泊尔考古局的拉姆·巴哈杜尔·孔瓦尔(Ram Bahadur Kunwar)踱着步寻思在这片遗址中心建一个四面有墙的建筑，说起未来他充满希望。
“It is still a mystery, because we have not opened it up,” he said. “But when we do, I think that this structure will tell the history of Kapilavastu.”
“这里仍然是个谜团，因为我们还没有打开它，”他说。“一旦我们完成开掘工作，我觉得这座城市能够讲述迦毗罗卫的历史。”
Others share his excitement. The Asian Development Bank is helping to finance a $54 million upgrade of the international airport close to the Nepalese town of Lumbini, the Buddha’s birthplace. The upgraded airport, when it is completed in 2030, will accommodate 760,000 passengers a year. Lumbini is about 16 miles from Tilaurakot.
其他人也和他一样兴奋。亚洲发展银行(Asian Development Bank)出资5400万美元，升级尼泊尔小镇、佛陀的诞生地蓝毗尼(Lumbini)附近的国际机场。升级后的机场将于2030年竣工，一年可以接待76万名乘客。蓝毗尼距离梯罗拉柯提有16英里（约26公里）。
It seems that many of those visitors are expected to come from China, which is experiencing a Buddhist revival: Tour guides are picking up Mandarin, new hotels are hiring Chinese chefs, and the local authorities are planning to erect a statue of the ninth-century Chinese Buddhist pilgrim whose travel journal established Nepal as the Buddha’s birthplace. On a recent afternoon, a gaggle of women from Chengdu were clambering back onto a plane after meditating for five minutes under the branches of a tree near the Buddha’s birthplace.
预计会有很多来自中国的游客，那里正在经历佛教的复兴：导游们说起了普通话、新酒店正找来中国大厨、当地政府正计划修建一座9世纪中国佛教朝圣者的塑像，正是他的旅行日记确定了佛陀的诞生地在尼泊尔。前不久的一个下午，一群来自成都的女人在佛陀诞生地附近的枝头下冥想了五分钟后，就坐飞机回去了。
Sunanda Sakyaputra, a Buddhist monk who had traveled to Tilaurakot to meditate, said the site of the ruined palace, a place where the Buddha “was not happy,” gave him a profound sense of the futility of human suffering. Asked about the town on the Indian side, he snorted.
来梯罗拉柯提冥想的佛教僧人苏南达·萨蒂亚普特拉(Sunanda Sakyaputra)说，在这座毁坏的宫殿遗址之中，佛陀“并不快乐”，他在这里深刻地思考人类痛苦的无意义性。被问起印度那一侧的小镇，他嗤之以鼻。
“That is wrong, very wrong,” he said. “All things. India thinks all things are hers. Why?”
“那个地方是错的，大错特错，”他说。“一切都是错的。印度觉得什么都是它的。凭什么？”