Fifty years have passed since the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his famous “I Have a Dream” speech during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in 1963. “Martin & Mahalia: His Words, Her Song” and “My Daddy, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,” two new picture books, use expressive illustrations and powerful text to educate young readers about the effects of prejudice, and to advocate for change.
1963年，小马丁·路德·金牧师在“为工作与自由向华盛顿进军”(March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom)活动上发表了著名的“我有一个梦想”(I Have a Dream)演讲。值此50周年之际，《马丁与玛哈莉亚：他的语言，她的歌》(Martin & Mahalia: His Words, Her Song)和《我的爸爸小马丁·路德·金博士》(My Daddy, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.)两本新的图文书使用富有表现力的插图和极具感染力的文字内容教育小读者们歧视的害处，并以及如何倡导改变。
Andrea Davis Pinkney and her husband, Brian Pinkney, the son of the award-winning children’s book illustrator Jerry Pinkney, wrote and illustrated “Martin & Mahalia: His Words, Her Song,” which chronicles the work of Martin Luther King and the singer Mahalia Jackson during the civil rights movement. King and Jackson first worked together during the Montgomery bus boycott of 1955, but the Pinkneys take the reader further back: the early pages of the book alternate between scenes of King’s childhood in Atlanta and of Jackson’s in New Orleans. A dove, the symbol of peace and unity, appears in nearly every illustration, beckoning the reader through the tumultuous period that led up to the March on Washington in 1963.
《马丁与玛哈莉亚：他的语言，她的歌》由安德烈·大卫·平克内(Andrea Davis Pinkney)与她的丈夫、获奖童书插画家杰里·平克内(Jerry Pinkney)之子布莱恩·平克内(Brian Pinkney)撰文并配图，该书按年代讲述了民权运动期间马丁·路德·金与歌手玛哈莉亚·杰克逊(Mahalia Jackson)的作品。金与杰克逊初次合作是在1955年的蒙哥马利公共汽车抵制运动中，但平克内夫妇引着读者追溯了更早以前的事情：本书前几页讲述了金在亚特兰大的童年以及杰克逊在新奥尔良的童年。象征和平与团结的鸽子几乎出现在每一幅画里，引领读者走过那段动荡的岁月，来到1963年华盛顿的游行队伍前方。
Pinkney bathes the pages that feature King in shades of blue and green, while accentuating Jackson’s with bright reds and oranges. Where King and Jackson appear together, purple and magenta dominate, the mixed colors to symbolize their united efforts. Quotations from speeches and songs King and Jackson delivered during the March on Washington swirl across the pages like banners. Jackson belts out the words “I’ve Been ’Buked and I’ve Been Scorned,” while two pages later, King exclaims, “I Have a Dream.” There’s more than history here, however. The author uses metaphorical language to convey the impact their words were capable of. When describing Jackson’s singing, Davis Pinkney writes, “She rolled her brass and butter with a mighty dose of thunder.”
平克内用蓝绿色调描绘金的画面，用亮红色与橙色强调杰克逊的形象。当金与杰克逊第一次共同出现时，画面主要采取紫色与紫红色调，色调的融合也象征着他们二人的合作努力。华盛顿进军活动当日，金演讲中的引言与杰克逊所唱的歌词像横幅一样在页面上盘旋。杰克逊高声唱出《我被责骂，我被蔑视》(I’ve Been ’Buked and I’ve Been Scorned)，两页之后，金做了《我有一个梦想》的演讲。不过该书不仅仅讲述历史，作者使用隐喻，展示他们的语言和歌词有多么大的冲击力。当描述杰克逊的歌唱时，大卫·平克内写道：“她用强劲的雷电把黄铜与黄油铸为一体。”
In “My Daddy, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,” Martin Luther King III writes about his childhood: “There have been a lot of books written about my father. But not a whole lot has been written about my dad.” To young Martin, who was known as Marty, King was “a warm and playful man.” His son describes what it was like attending an integrated school for the first time. As the only black child in his class, he was ostracized. A cruel classmate asked why he wasn’t with his “own kind.” “ ‘We’re all the same kind — we’re all kids,’ ” Marty answered. It wasn’t easy growing up as Martin Luther King, Jr.’s son. He recalls lying about his name to avoid being bullied, and fearing that his father would never return home after being arrested. Knowing his father’s belief in nonviolence, he and his brother burned the toy guns they had been given for Christmas; they wanted to burn “all the hate in the world.”
在《我的爸爸小校马丁·路德·金博士》一书中，马丁·路德·金三世这样描写自己的童年：“有很多书都在写我的父亲，但没有几本是在讲我的老爸。”年轻的马丁被叫做马蒂(Marty)，对于他来说，金是个“温和有趣的男人”。儿子描述了自己第一次到取消种族隔离的学校里上学时的感受。作为班上唯一的黑人孩子，他被同学们排斥。一个残忍的同学问他，为什么他不和“自己的同种类”在一起。“我们都是同一个种类——我们都是孩子，”马蒂回答。作为小马丁·路德·金的儿子长大成人绝非易事。他回忆自己为了避免受欺负，曾经隐瞒自己的姓名；还曾担心父亲被捕后永远不会再回到家里来了。知道父亲的信仰是非暴力，他和兄弟烧掉了圣诞节上得到的礼物玩具枪；他们希望能把“世上所有的仇恨”都付之一炬。
AG Ford, who previously illustrated  “Barack” and “First Family,” paints scenes of the King family in an almost photorealistic style, with detailed facial expressions. The clear and vibrantly colored illustrations parallel the straightforward language of the narrative. As in “Martin & Mahalia,” King’s death is mentioned only on the last page, which seems appropriate for young readers and prevents these stories of the lesser-known aspects of Martin Luther King Jr.’s life from becoming overwhelmed by tragedy.
《贝拉克》(Barack)和《第一家庭》(First Family)两本书的插画师AG·福特(AG Ford)在本书中以近乎照片写实主义的风格描绘了金一家人的各种场景，面部表情细节极其丰富。色彩生动鲜明的插画与简洁明了的叙事语言相得益彰。和《马丁与玛哈莉亚》一样，金的逝世在这本书里也只在最后一页被提到，这对于年轻读者来说似乎恰到好处，没有让悲剧淹没小马丁·路德·金这些罕为人知的生平故事。