KAWHMU, Myanmar — The pastel-painted vocational school hacked out of the bamboo jungle is a long way from the international salons where Myanmar’s symbol of resistance, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, is now an established figure.
缅甸高穆——在竹林中开辟出来的这所职业学校，刷着柔和的色彩。这里与缅甸反对派的代表人物昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)习以为常的国际舞台相距遥远。
Here in her parliamentary district, a network of poor rice-growing hamlets, the opposition leader and Nobel Peace laureate played local politician: opening a hotel training school that she hopes will catapult talented students out of the fields and into jobs as maids, cooks and butlers in Myanmar’s booming tourist industry.
在由种植水稻的贫穷村庄组成的这个议会选区里，这位反对派领袖、诺贝尔和平奖得主扮演着地方政治人物的角色：为一所酒店培训学校主持开幕典礼。她希望这所学校能让有才能的学生脱离农田，投身缅甸蓬勃发展的旅游业，充当服务员、厨师和管家。
“Our society wants to have academia,” she said to a small crowd in Oxford-inflected English, a remnant of her university days in Britain. “But we have to be practical. It’s a matter of equipping our children with skills that see them through life.”
“我们的社会希望培养出学者，”她对一小群人说，“但我们必须实际一些，需要让学生掌握终身受用的技能。”由于在英国上过大学，她的英语有牛津口音。
Few doubt that Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has done well for her constituents, delivering electricity where none existed, using her cachet to draw hoteliers from Thailand and Switzerland to invest in the school.
几乎没人怀疑昂山素季在为自己的选民服务上表现出色。她让过去没有电的地方通了电，还利用自己的声望，吸引来泰国和瑞士的酒店经营者投资这所学校。
But on the eve of a visit by President Obama to Myanmar, where he is expected to meet with her on Friday, human rights advocates and even members of her political party are raising questions about her performance in the broader political arena.
但在奥巴马访问缅甸前夕，人权倡导人士乃至她自己领导的政党的成员，对她在整个政治舞台上的表现却提出了质疑。奥巴马预计会在周五与昂山素季举行会晤。
In the four years since she emerged from house arrest as a world-famous champion of democracy, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, 69, has hesitated to take on many of her country’s biggest issues, critics say, and has failed those who expected a staunch human rights advocate. She has instead emphasized a general call for rule of law, a critical issue for a country emerging from a half-century of dictatorship but one, they say, that falls short of addressing particular grievances.
批评人士称，现年69岁的昂山素季作为世界知名的民主卫士，在结束软禁后的四年里，迟迟不愿直面该国的许多重要议题，让那些期待她成为坚定的人权倡导者的人大失所望。相反，她只是泛泛地强调，应当实行法治。批评人士称，对于这个摆脱了长达半个世纪的独裁统治的国家，法治至关重要，但却并未解决具体的问题。
Since entering Parliament two years ago, she has been reluctant to speak out about abuses by government forces against civilians in the ethnic conflict in Kachin State, saying both sides were responsible for killings. As chairwoman of a panel investigating land disputes between poor farmers and a copper mining company accused of unfairly taking their land, she sided with the company. Perhaps most surprising of all, she has refused to admonish the government for its harsh policies against the Rohingya Muslim minority, policies that Mr. Obama criticized last week.
自两年前进入议会以来，她一直不愿大胆谈论政府军在克钦邦的民族冲突中对平民实施的侵害，而是表示双方都对杀戮负有责任。她担任主席的一个委员会，负责调查贫困的农民与一家铜矿公司之间的土地纠纷。该公司被指以不公平的方式夺取农民的土地，但她站在了矿业公司那边。或许最出人意料的是，她拒绝就人口占少数的罗辛亚族(Rohingyas)穆斯林承受的严厉政策，而责备政府。上周，这些政策受到了奥巴马的谴责。
Those policies, along with episodes of deadly violence against the Rohingya by radical Buddhists, have driven hundreds of thousands of Rohingya from their homes and confined more than 100,000 to squalid camps.
这些政策，连同激进的佛教徒对罗辛亚人实施暴力并致人死亡的事件，迫使数十万罗辛亚人离开家园，还有超过10万名罗辛亚人，沦落到了脏乱的集中营里。
In public comments, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has equated the plight of the Rohingya with that of the region’s Buddhists, saying that it was important “not to forget violence is committed by both sides.”
在公开发表评论时，昂山素季认为罗辛亚人和该地区的佛教徒遭受着同等的困境，称重要的是“不要忘记双方都实施了暴力”。
Human rights advocates, who argue that most of the violence has been committed by the Buddhist majority against the Rohingya minority, say they are astonished that she has abdicated what they see as her moral responsibility to shine a light on obvious human rights abuses. She has remained immune to appeals from American officials, who say they have suggested on a number of occasions that she speak out on the Rohingya.
人权倡导人士则称，大部分暴力活动都是人口占多数的佛教徒，对人口占少数的罗辛亚人发起的。在他们看来，关注显而易见的侵犯人权问题，是昂山素季的道德责任。他们表示，昂山素季背弃这一责任，让他们很吃惊。此外，她依然对美国官员的呼吁无动于衷。美国官员称，他们曾在多个场合建议她公开谈论罗辛亚人问题。
“It’s not the political authority of her office people are asking her to wield,” said John Sifton, Asia advocacy director for Human Rights Watch. “It is her moral authority. It is her authority as an iconic Nobel Peace Prize winner that she has failed to wield.”
“人们要求她行使的，不是其职务的政治权力，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)的亚洲倡导事务主管约翰·西夫顿(John Sifton)说，“而是她的道德权威，是她作为一名标志性的诺贝尔和平奖得主所具有的权威，但她未能行使这种权威。”
As the opposition leader in a Parliament dominated by the military and former members of the military, which ruled the country for nearly five decades, her ability to steer government policy is limited. But she has raised her voice on some issues, particularly in opposition to the military’s power to veto constitutional amendments, a brave stance that wins her plaudits but that so far has not succeeded.
在缅甸议会中，占据主导地位的是军方人士和前军方人士，而军方曾统治缅甸近半个世纪。鉴于此，她作为反对派领袖左右政府政策的能力很有限。但她在一些问题上做出了表态，特别是反对向军方赋予否决宪法修正案的权力。这一勇敢姿态为她赢得了赞誉，但这一行动目前尚未成功。
Her pet project is the parliamentary Rule of Law and Tranquillity Committee, an advisory panel on one of the country’s central problems, corruption in the judiciary and the police. Next month, two centers to train police officers and judges, sponsored at her panel’s urging by the United Nations Development Program, will begin operations, an aide said.
她自己的得意之作是议会的法治和稳定委员会(Rule of Law and Tranquillity Committee)。这个顾问委员会关注的议题是司法界和警界的腐败，这是缅甸最核心的问题之一。她的一名助手称，两个培训警察和法官的中心将从下个月开始运作。在她所属委员会的竭力主张下，联合国开发计划署(United Nations Development Program)为这两个中心提供了赞助。
Her defenders say she is doing great work under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. “She has tried to change the country, but she can’t because it is a government still dominated by the military,” said Myint Myint Khin Pe, the founder of the Free Funeral Service Society, a charity that organizes low-cost funerals for the poor. “She’s very intelligent but alone.”
为其辩护的人称，她在极其困难的形势下，表现很不错。“她尝试改变这个国家，但她做不到，因为政府仍然由军方主导，”免费丧葬服务协会(Free Funeral Service Society)的创始人敏敏钦佩(Myint Myint Khin Pe)说。“她很有头脑，但势单力薄。”该协会是一个慈善团体，为穷人举行低成本的葬礼。
In response to criticism that she could do more to quicken the pace of reform, she has blamed the ruling party for dragging its feet.
批评者称她应该采取更多措施来加快改革步伐。在回应这一指责时，她表示，执政党应该为行动缓慢负责。
But people who have come to know her in the last four years say they are mystified as to why she has remained so muted, even in her freedom. Some see her positions, and her silences, as political expedience.
但过去四年里逐步了解她的人说，他们很困惑昂山素季为何一直如此缄默，尽管她已重获自由。有些人认为，她的立场和她的沉默是政治上的权宜之计。
“She should speak out about the Rohingya to prevent us Burmese from being racist,” said Ko Tar, an environmental and education advocate. “It is a political calculation that she does not.”
“她应该谈罗辛亚人的问题，防止缅甸人成为种族主义者，”环境和教育权益倡导人士科塔(Ko Tar)说，“她不讲这个问题，是出于政治上的盘算。”
In many respects, he said, she tends to side with the elite.
他说，在许多方面，她往往站在精英阶层一边。
“On the copper mine she made a strategic calculation not to anger the company,” he said. “She could not feel the suffering of the people.”
“对于铜矿事件，她做了一番策略上的考量，决定不去激怒公司，”他说。“她感受不到公众的苦难。”
When environmental activists campaigned against a Chinese-built dam, she made anodyne statements about the Irrawaddy River being an essential waterway but declined to get involved, he said, and she has refused to be drawn into the effort to decentralize the rigid education system. “She is silent on education; there is no discussion in the Parliament on education,” he said.
他说，当环保主义者反对中国修建水坝时，她发表了一番平和的讲话，称伊洛瓦底江(Irrawaddy River)是条重要的航道，但却拒绝介入。而且她也拒绝参与另一项努力，在僵化的教育体系中进行分权。“她在教育领域保持缄默；议会没有对教育问题开展任何讨论，”他说。
Women’s groups concerned about a recent bill to ban interfaith marriages asked for her help, said Daw Zin Mar Aung, a member of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s political party. “We were threatened by the ultranationalists and the monks over our stand against the law,” she said. “She told us to inform the police, but the police are useless.”
最近提出的一项法案试图禁止宗教信仰不同的人通婚，一些妇女团体对此感到担忧，因而向她求助，与昂山素季同属一个政党的辛玛昂(Daw Zin Mar Aung)说。“因为反对这个法案，我们遭到了民族主义极端分子和僧侣的恐吓，”她说。“她让我们去报警，但警方管不了。”
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi depends for much of her advice on a small kitchen cabinet dominated by two women she has known through long friendships, a Western diplomat said. One of them is Daw Ohmar Moe Myint, whose husband, a powerful businessman, was on the United States sanctions list until 2012. The other is her chief of staff, Dr. Tin Mary Aung, a medical doctor and a Rakhine, the ethnic group fighting the Rohingya in western Myanmar. Some diplomats say Dr. Tin Mary Aung may influence Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s decision to keep a low profile on the Rohingyas.
一名西方外交官说，昂山素季的很多建言都来自一个小型智囊团，主导这个群体的两位女士与她是长期的密友。其中一人是欧玛貌敏(Daw Ohmar Moe Myint)，她的丈夫是个势力很强的商人，2012年前一直被列在美国的制裁名单上。另一个是她的幕僚长丁玛昂(Tin Mary Aung)，一名若开族医生；在缅甸西部与罗辛亚族发生冲突的正是若开族。一些外交官说，昂山素季决定在罗辛亚问题上保持低调，可能是由于丁玛昂的影响。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has granted few interviews with foreign media recently, and people who work with her said it would not be possible to interview her for this article. But when she has responded to criticism, she has not backed down from controversial positions.
昂山素季最近几乎不接受外国媒体的采访，她的工作人员说，为这篇文章采访她是不可能的。但她在回应批评的时候，并没有对那些引起争议的立场做出让步。
“I have never done anything just for popularity,” she said after being heckled by angry farmers over the copper mine last year. “Sometimes politicians have to do things that people dislike.”
“我做任何事，从来都不只是为了争取人气，”去年因为铜矿纠纷而遭到农民愤怒的诘问之后，她说。“有时政治人物必须做一些人们不喜欢的事情。”
Questions about where she stands are all the more urgent given that she could wield considerable power after elections next year, which her party, the National League for Democracy, is expected to win.
她所在的全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)有望在明年的选举中获胜，鉴于她可能在选举后掌握相当大的权力，追问她的立场显得十分紧迫。
She remains a national hero, and even disillusioned supporters say they would like her to be president. But the country’s 2008 Constitution bars candidates with a foreign-born spouse or foreign-born children from seeking the top office, a prohibition that seems to have been written with her in mind. Her late husband, Michael Aris, was British; her two adult sons were born in Britain.
她仍然这个国家的英雄，就连失望的支持者也表示，希望她能成为总统。但该国2008年修订的宪法，禁止配偶或子女在外国出生的缅甸人竞选总统，这一条文的目的似乎就是阻拦她。她已故的丈夫迈克尔·阿里斯(Michael Aris)是英国人；两个已成年的儿子出生在英国。