“Regarding Susan Sontag,” a documentary Monday night on HBO, will fill you in on a lot of the details of its subject’s life: her precocity, her travels, her illnesses, her lovers. (Particularly her lovers.)
HBO台周一晚间播出的纪录片《关于苏珊·桑塔格》(Regarding Susan Sontag)向观众提供了关于这位主人公生活的大量细节：她的早慧、旅行、疾病与恋人们（特别是恋人们）。
What it won’t give you is any strong sense of her work. The famous essays and collections of criticism and analysis — “Notes on Camp,” “Against Interpretation,” “On Photography,” “Illness as Metaphor” — are used as mile markers, along with the less famous novels and films. But rather than tackle Ms. Sontag’s ideas or their value head-on, the director, Nancy Kates, continually deflects the discussion along other lines: Ms. Sontag as closeted bisexual, serial heartbreaker, liberal provocateur, narcissist, celebrity, camera subject, Jew, cancer survivor.
但是关于她的作品，这部影片没有讲出很多东西。《坎普札记》(Notes on Camp)、《反对阐释》(Against Interpretation)、《论摄影》(On Photography)、《疾病的隐喻》(Illness as Metaphor)等著名散文，还有评论或论文选集，乃至她那些不那么有名的小说和电影，在片中只是作为里程碑出现。该片导演南希·凯茨(Nancy Kates)并没有直面桑塔格的理念乃至它们的价值，而是把讨论转向其他线索：桑塔格是个没出柜的双性恋、她伤了很多人的心、是个自由主义的破坏分子、自恋狂、名人、被摄影镜头捕捉的对象、犹太人与癌症幸存者。
There’s nothing wrong with a gossipy account of a full, glamorous life, and “Regarding Susan Sontag” provides that, in some measure. Anecdotes and observations are provided by a large cast that includes Ms. Sontag’s sister, Judith Sontag Cohen, and representatives of her impressive roster of girlfriends: Harriet Sohmers Zwerling, Eva Kollisch, the choreographer Lucinda Childs, the photographer Annie Leibovitz. Frequent excerpts from her writing, read in voice-over by Patricia Clarkson, give a feel for her style if not her substance. And Ms. Sontag herself, with her striking good looks, heavy mane of hair and gravelly voice, is a presence throughout, having been among the most filmed and photographed of serious writers.
《关于苏珊·桑塔格》在某种程度上是采用八卦基调来描述一个充实而精彩的人生，这样做并没有什么不对。很多人都提供了各种趣闻轶事，包括桑塔格的姊妹朱迪丝·桑塔格·科恩(Judith Sontag Cohen)，以及她的许多著名女友，如哈莉特·索默斯·茨威林格(Harriet Sohmers Zwerling)、伊娃·克里斯彻(Eva Kollisch)、编舞者露辛达·柴尔德斯(Lucinda Childs)和摄影师安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)。片中经常引用她写的东西，由帕特里西亚·克拉克森(Patricia Clarkson)以画外音的形式读出，这样观众就算无法了解她的思想实质，至少也能体会她的风格。桑塔格本人相貌非凡，有一头浓密的长发，声音庄重，是曝光最多的严肃作家之一，她的形象在本片中无所不在。
But there’s also something reluctant, slightly scolding and oddly funereal about the film, which begins with her saying, “I love being alive,” and ends with an account of her death from cancer at 71, in 2004.
但是从她说“我热爱活着”开始，到关于她在2004年死于癌症，卒年71岁的描述为止，片中笼罩着勉强、轻微的斥责与奇异的死亡悲哀。
The news that Ms. Sontag won a National Book Award (for the novel “In America”) is followed by someone saying, “Sometimes awards are given in recognition of a career as much as the merits of a particular book.” We’re told how bad her first novel was and how bad her first film was. When her body of work is directly addressed, it’s with faint praise like: “She had an unbelievably good sense of what was important,” and “It’s mannered and stylized, but that’s part of the fun of the package of Susan Sontag.”
桑塔格曾凭借小说《在美国》(In America)赢得国家图书奖，在片中，她获奖后有人说：“有时候奖项既是对某本书的奖掖，亦是对作者毕生事业的认可。”片中还告诉我们，她的第一部小说和第一部电影都很糟糕。片中的人提到她的毕生作品时，只是做出了一些模糊的赞美，诸如，“她对重要的事物拥有非同寻常的敏锐感受”、“它墨守成规，很模式化，但这也是苏珊·桑塔格趣味的一部分。”