Upstairs, downstairs, in a corner, at a desk, on the bed, with a view of trees, water, the street, the sky. Five writers, who all publish new books this year, explain how the right space can unlock the mind and let the words flow.
楼上，楼下，角落里，书桌上，床上；窗外有树木，水，街道和天空的景色。五位今年有新著出版的作家讲述合适的空间是如何释放灵感，使他们文思如泉涌。
Colson Whitehead In ‘The Noble Hustle: Poker, Beef Jerky and Death,’ Whitehead recounts his journey from amateur to unlikely contestant in the World Series of Poker (Doubleday).
在《高尚的骗局：扑克、牛肉棒和死亡》(The Noble Hustle: Poker, Beef Jerky and Death)一书里，科尔森·怀特海德(Colson Whitehead)讲述了他是怎样从一个业余玩家令人不可思议地成为了世界扑克冠军联赛的选手（Doubleday出版）。
We moved around the city a lot when I was growing up. Uptown, downtown. Another kid, a bigger apartment. Kid off to college, lose a bedroom. We lived in one building for six whole years, although we switched apartments halfway. Someone upstairs committed suicide, and they were still hosing him off the pavement when my dad said, “I wonder if his place is available.”
在我成长过程中，我们家在城里搬了好几次家。上城，下城。家里又添了一个孩子，于是我们搬到一个更大的公寓。有孩子离家上大学，于是家里少了一个卧室。我们曾在一个公寓楼里住了六年，虽然在其间我们在楼内换了一处公寓。那次楼上有人跳楼自杀。当他们还在冲洗人行道上的血迹时，我父亲就说：“不知道他的公寓会不会空出来。”
There’s always a better apartment, that’s the rule. I’m sedentary now, but I keep up the hunt by moving my desk around. Where’s the mojo these days? What room, what corner? How about by the window, one story above the street? Pluses: taking in “the life of the city”; nose-picking deterrent. Minus: overhearing “Who’s that sad man sitting there all day?” A hundred pages in the dining room, 100 pages in the living room while the kid’s at school. It adds up. For the first half of a new book, maybe you want your back against the wall. Gunslinger style. Nothing can sneak up on you except your own bad sentences. Try it.
更好的住处要想找总是能找到——这是个规则。我现在安定了下来。但是我通过挪动我的书桌来继续我的搜寻。如今灵气在哪儿？哪个房间？哪个角落？把桌子摆在离街道只有一层之高的窗边怎么样？好处是可以贴近感受“城市生活”，想抠鼻子也会有所顾忌。坏处呢？会听到外面有人说：“成天坐在那儿的那个衰人是谁啊？”我会在餐厅里写上100页，等孩子上学去在客厅写100页。写书就是这么积累起来的。写一本新书的前半部分时，你没准想要背对着墙壁，就像个枪手。没有人会偷偷从你身后给你来个出其不意——当然，你写的烂句子除外。试试吧。
I wouldn’t mind ghost-hunting gear, fancy goggles and meters, because looking for a mojo spot is like looking for the paranormal — you know it’s there, but it’s invisible. Only pages are proof. For the final push of “The Noble Hustle,” I moved to a corner of the den. The new baby was getting my office in a few months anyway. View of the garden, big-ass TV on one wall. I can see my grill. Makes me happy. There’s good mojo here, similes poppin’ and the like.
我不介意弄一套捉鬼人的装备，花哨的护目镜和仪表。因为寻找灵气和找超自然的东西差不多——你知道它在那儿，但是就是看不见它。只有我的笔下之物是证据。在《高尚的骗局》将近收尾时，我把书桌挪到了书房的一个角落。反正几个月后，我的书房也会让给我们即将出世的孩子使用。从角落里可以看见花园，一面墙上挂着超大电视机。我能看见我的烧烤架。这让我很开心。这个角落的灵气不错，我的奇思妙想不断。
Until it runs out and the hunt begins anew.
直到我文思枯竭，新的一轮搜索又开始了。
Douglas Coupland Coupland’s ‘Worst. Person. Ever.’ follows a hard-luck cameraman who travels from London to the South Pacific to shoot a reality TV show (Blue Rider Press).
道格拉斯‧柯普兰(Douglas Coupland)的《 最.坏.的.人》(Worst.Person.Ever)的主人公是一个不走运的摄像师。他从伦敦来到了南太平洋，拍摄一部真人秀（Blue Rider Press出版)。
Five years ago, two things happened. One, I installed really good Wi-Fi in the house, and, two, I broke my left leg. Suddenly every room in the house became a new room, and what used to be the “sculpture pit” beside the living room became my new office. I painted it black, which you think would make it scary, but instead it makes everything in the room turn warm.
五年前发生了两件事。第一件是我在家里安装了信号强大的WiFi；第二件事是我摔断了左腿。顿时家里的每一个房间变得都不一样了。客厅旁一个放雕像的空间变成了我的新书房。我把它刷成了黑色。你可能觉得这有点吓人，可事实上这让房间里的东西变得温暖起来。
My window looks into trees and ferns, and there’s a creek just below that’s a highway for animals on the mountain slope, so on any day I’ll see raccoons, skunks, bears and, once, an otter that cleaned out all the koi in the pond two summers ago. That was cute but annoying.
窗外是树木和蕨类植物，一条小溪就在窗下流过。这是动物们往山上去的通道。几乎每一天我都能看到浣熊、臭鼬、熊，有一次我看到了一只河狸。这家伙在两个夏天前把我的池塘里的鲤鱼都吃光了，这真是又可爱又恼人。
On the shelves are a variety of architectural models and shapes derived from building kits. When I’m writing I look at them to cleanse the palate of my brain. Writing takes place in time, while objects take place in space, and entering space for a few seconds helps me mentally change gears. I’m a visual thinker, but most writers are not. Writing in a big empty room would give me the bends. I need density around me.
书架上放着各种建筑模型和组合部件拼装成的构造。当我要写作时，我会看着它们，以此理清思绪。写作占据了时间，而这些物体占据了空间。几秒钟的空间思考让我的脑力为写作做好准备。和许多作家不同的是，我是一个视觉化的思考者。在一间空荡荡的房间里写作会让我思维迟钝，我需要周围有实体存在。
I write on an escritoire I found on Craigslist. I refinished it in Japanese red lacquer, put some holes in the back for cords, and it’s great because the moment I close it I look like an organized person. It’s such a good system that I ended up producing escritoires with a friend who has a furniture factory called SwitzerCultCreative.
我在一张从Craigslist（分类广告网站——译注）买到的合盖式写字台上写作。我把它刷了一层日本红漆，又在后侧钻了几个洞，用来走电线。结果相当不错。我把桌板合上时，一切重归井井有条。我很满意我的办公系统，并和一位开家具工厂的朋友合作，生产类似的合盖写字台。这位朋友的工厂名叫SwitzerCultCreative。
The round naval bombing painting is by a Chilean painter, Adrián Gouet. The explosion it depicts looks just like one piece from a series I did a few years back of Andy Warhol wigs. The similarity is haunting and utterly unexpected.
墙上那副描绘海上轰炸的圆形画作是智利画家艾德里安‧古艾特(Adrián Gouet)的作品。爆炸的烟雾像极了我几年前创作的安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)假发系列中的一幅。这种相似出人意料，让人念念不忘，无法释怀。
Mona Simpson In ‘Casebook,’ Simpson tells the tale of a young boy who endeavors to find out the secrets behind his parents’ failing marriage (Knopf).
莫娜·辛普森(Mona Simpson)的小说《案例报告》(Casebook)讲的是一个男孩试图找出父母失败婚姻背后的秘密。
I’ve never had an exclusive relationship to a room where I write. I used to want one. In my 20s, I’d look up and see the windows in New York and think of the apartments left empty all day by their owners who went to work in offices. “I need an office!” I thought. I could have used one of those empty rooms.
我从来没有一个自己独有的房间来写作。在过去我很想要这么一个房间。在我20多岁的时候，我会抬起头来看着纽约城中楼房的窗户，想像着户主们去上班后那些空出来的公寓：“我需要一间办公室。”我琢磨着。这些空出的房间里要是有一间给我使用就好了。
In my 30s, I wrote in the back house of a ramshackle Spanish Revival we rented across from the ocean in the Santa Monica Canyon. I wrote thousands of pages there, but in order to see another adult human being I had to steal out through the brambly side of the house, along the driveway down to the street. I was usually spotted by my child, who was still young and would cry for me.
在我30多岁的时候，我们在圣莫妮卡峡谷正对着大海的地方租了一座破旧不堪的西班牙复兴建筑风格的老房子，我就在后面的房间写作。我在那里写了成千上万页稿子。但如果我想见到任何一个成年人，我就不得不从房后树木枝枝杈杈的那边走出来，沿着行车道走到街上。即便如此，我还是往往被我的孩子看到。孩子那时还小，会哭着喊着找我。
When I started writing “Casebook,” I needed to be watched while I worked. I’d rented an office but I was recently divorced and traveling too much for a family illness. I thought that I could hold it together for a day’s work if other people were around. I wouldn’t let myself cry in public. I wrote the first draft on a table in the Santa Monica Public Library.
当我开始写《案例报告》这本书时，我写作的时候需要身边有人看着我。我租了一间办公室，但在那段时间不久刚刚离婚，并且因为家人身体不好而频繁旅行。我觉得，如果身边有人，我就能忍受全天工作。我不会在公共场合哭泣。我在圣莫妮卡公共图书馆写完了第一稿。
Now I write at home. I revised the last 11 drafts, red-penciled the copy editing and marked the first-pass galleys at different places in the house; sitting on the floor next to the heating vent, on my bed, at the kitchen table, leaning back in my chair with my feet up on the desk.
如今，我在家里写作。我在家中的不同角落修改了最后11稿，用红铅笔标注了修改的文字，在未修订的样书里做了各种标记：坐在在暖气管旁边的地板上，坐在床上，餐桌前，向后坐在椅子上，双脚翘在书桌上。
Writers collect stories of rituals: John Cheever putting on a jacket and tie to go down to the basement, where he kept a desk near the boiler room. Keats buttoning up his clean white shirt to write in, after work.
作家们对写作的“仪式”津津乐道：约翰·契佛(John Cheever)会穿上西装领带，到地下室去写作，他在锅炉房旁边有张书桌。济慈(Keats)在工作之后，会穿上干净的白衬衫，扣起扣子，然后开始写作。
Instead of a dedicated room, my best trigger is the actual habit of reading over the texts from the day before. Marking. Changing. Fussing. This ritual amounts to a habit of trust. Trust that I can make it better. That if I keep trying, I will come closer to something true.
我没有专门用来写作的房间，最好的刺激灵感的方式是阅读前一天的书稿。标记。修改。犹豫不决。这个仪式实际上是出于信任的一种习惯。我信任自己能写得更好，如果我不停努力，最终会接近真实。
Joyce Carol Oates In ‘Carthage,’ Oates conjures the harrowing story of a young woman who goes missing and the decorated Iraq War veteran who becomes a suspect (Ecco).
乔伊斯·卡洛尔·欧茨(Joyce Carol Oates)的《迦太基》(Carthage)讲述了一个让人心碎的故事：一位年轻女士失踪，而一位在伊拉克战争中受到嘉奖的退伍军人成了嫌疑人（Ecco出版）。
“No ideas but in dreams” — or rather, daydreams.
“思想只存在于梦中”——或者，白日梦对我来说倒更贴切。
I spend much of my time gazing out the window of any writing space I have inhabited. This is particularly true of my present study which overlooks, from the second floor of our house, the rear of our property sloping down to a creek that flows into a lake. There is surely some subtle connection between the vistas we face and the writing we accomplish, as a dream takes its mood and imagery from our waking life.
不论在哪里写作，我都会花很多时间看着窗外。现在更是这样。我位于二楼的书房朝向我家的后院，向外望去，可以看到一条小溪顺坡流下，汇入湖中。我们面对的窗景和我们写出来的东西之间肯定有一些微妙的联系，就好像睡梦反应了我们清醒时的心情和看到的景象。
Among my earliest memories are the fields, woods and creeks of my childhood in western New York State, where I grew up on a small farm north of Buffalo. I could see the Tonawanda Creek from the upstairs windows of our farmhouse.
我在纽约州西部水牛城北边的一个小农场上长大成人。我最早的记忆中出现的是童年时的田野、树林和溪流。从农庄楼上的窗户外望去，可以看到托纳旺达河。
This writing room replicates, to a degree, the old, lost vistas of my childhood. What it contains is less significant to me than what it overlooks, though obviously there are precious things here — photographs of my parents and my grandmother. Photographs of my husband Raymond Smith, who died in 2008, and of my second husband, Charlie Gross. Portraits of me by my friend Gloria Vanderbilt. Like all writers, I have made my writing room a sanctuary of the soul.
现在我的书房在某种程度上复制了我童年时那些只能追忆的窗景。对我来说，窗外的景色比房间内的陈设要更有意义。当然房间里有一些珍贵的东西：我父母和祖父母的照片；我的丈夫雷蒙德·史密斯(Raymond Smith)的照片——他在2008年去世；我第二个丈夫查理·格罗斯(Charlie Gross)的照片；我的朋友格劳利亚·范德比尔特(Gloria Vanderbilt)为我画的像。与所有的作家一样，我把我写作的房间变成了一个灵魂庇护所。
Bookshelves contain copies of most of the books I have written from 1963 onward. How stunned I would have been to imagine, at the outset of my writing life, that, in time, I would write so many books! — when each day’s work, each hour’s work, feels so anxiously wrought and hard-won.
书架上有我从1963年到现在出版过的大部分的作品。写作的每一天，每一个小时对我来说都费尽心思，一词一句都来之不易。如果在开始写作生涯时让我知道能写这么多的书，我该多么吃惊啊。
My writing begins in “longhand” sketches and notes. I write at my beautifully carved little “antique” table where I can gaze dreamily toward the creek and lake and be distracted by birds at the feeders below. My larger, more utilitarian desk contains my laptop and it’s here that I type seriously, often for hours, expanding on ideas that I’ve written by hand in what is called, quaintly, “cursive” — soon to be a lost or even secret skill, like Gaelic.
我的写作从手写的草稿和笔记开始。这些我在一张漂亮的手工做成的古董桌上完成。在这里，我会如同在梦中一般望着小溪和湖泊，楼下喂食器旁的鸟儿时不时吸引着我的注意。房间里还有一张更大更实用的书桌，上面是我的笔记本电脑。我在这儿经常连续好几个小时地聚精会神地工作，把我“草书”（这说法可够老派的，可是就像盖尔语一样，手写不久后就会失传或是成为一种秘密的技能）写下的想法扩充成电脑上的稿件。
I love my study and am unhappy to leave it for long. Yet I think I most envy writers who look upon the sea or rivers — I would be enthralled facing such a view where time would pass virtually unnoticed, in anticipation of something wonderful.
我很喜爱我的书房，不情愿离开它很长时间。但是我非常嫉妒那些能从房间里看到大海或河流的作家。在这种景色中，时间不知不觉就流逝了过去，并带来美好的事物。这种景色会让我如痴如醉。