A view of Rome, a pristine computer screen, a photograph of Basquiat, an I.B.M. 196c typewriter, the ghost of another author. For these writers — each of whom releases a new book this fall — all they need to inspire is within these walls.
窗外罗马的景色，异常整洁的电脑屏幕，一张艺术家让-米歇尔·巴斯奎亚特(Jean-Michel Basquiat)的照片，一台IBM196c打字机，另外一位作家的鬼魂。本文采访的几位作家，今秋都有新书付梓——而他们的书房则是他们的灵感源泉。
JONATHAN LETHEM
乔纳森·莱瑟姆(Jonathan Lethem)
Lethem’s “Dissident Gardens” (Doubleday) tells the epic family saga of three generations of radical lefties in New York City.
莱瑟姆即将上市的新书《异见者的花园》（Dissident Gardens, Doubleday出版社）讲述了纽约市一个极端左派家庭三代人的家族史。
I’ve written portions of six or seven books in this study, but it doesn’t really belong to me. The alcove in which the desk is set, the field and tree line through the windows, the surrounding acres, all of these are borrowed from another writer, named Esther Wood, whose grandfather built this farmhouse. She lived and wrote in this house for many years, and then for a long time after she’d lost her eyesight she went on living here, until she, at age 97, died in the bedroom upstairs, as had her father and grandfather, in all likelihood. Her books have titles like “Deep Roots: A Maine Legacy” and “Saltwater Seasons.” For decades a columnist for The Ellsworth American, Wood was a descendant of this town’s 18th-century founders, and the local historian; really, a living emblem of the town’s relationship to its own history, which remains fierce. In our neighborhood Wood is a more famous writer than I could ever possibly be. I’ve long since learned that if I want a plumber or electrician to visit the place, or simply in explaining where I live to someone local, it’s best to cut to the chase and say “Esther Wood’s house.”
我有六七本书都是在这个书房里写出了部分章节，但其实它并不属于我。摆放书桌的这间凹室，窗外这片土地和树林，周边数英亩土地，这一切都是借自另外一位作家，艾斯特·伍德(Esther Wood)。她的祖父修建了这座农宅，她自己曾在这里生活、写作多年，她失明后仍旧住在这里，直到97岁时在楼上的卧室里去世。估计她的祖父和父亲也一样是在那个卧室里过世的。她的作品包括《根深蒂固：缅因州的传统》(Deep Roots: A Maine Legacy)以及《咸水季节》(Saltwater Seasons)等等。她的祖先在18世纪建立这个小镇，她自己曾为《埃尔斯沃斯美国人报》(Ellsworth American)撰写专栏长达数十年，也是一位本地历史专家，是这个小镇影响深厚的历史传统的象征。在我们这里，我永远不可能奢望成为她那么有名的作家。我很早就明白了，如果我想请水管工或电工来家里干活，或是告诉本地人我的住址，我根本不必多费口舌，只要说“爱思特·伍德的故居”就没问题。
We’ve altered the house as little as possible. I commissioned the built-in bookshelves, which were carpentered to keep to the look of the molding; the room seemed to have been waiting for them. While sitting here writing my mostly urban books I’ve watched deer, fox and bobcats cross our field, which must be some sort of forest freeway. I always figure the creatures are auditioning for a cameo in Esther Wood’s latest book or column. They’ve got the wrong writer.
我尽可能地不改变房子本身。我专门定制了木质壁式书架，保持了原有的木饰风格，与房间浑然一体。我在这里写的书也多为乡村主题。写书时我见到过鹿、狐狸和短尾猫（一种北美野猫——编注）在窗外穿行，那一定是条树林“高速公路”。我总是想，这些动物一定是为了在爱思特·伍德的小说或专栏里“友情出演”才出现在这里；可惜，他们遇到的是另外一位作家。
JULIAN BARNES
朱利安·巴恩斯(Julian Barnes)
Barnes paints a portrait of grief five years after the death of his wife, the literary agent Pat Kavanagh, in “Levels of Life” (Knopf).
这位作家在伦敦北部书房的桌前创作了多部作品，包括获得2011年曼·布克奖的小说《终结的感觉》(The Sense of an Ending)。
I have worked in this room for 30 years. It is on the first floor, overlooking the tops of two prunus trees, which flower before they leaf, so that in a lucky year there can be both snow and pink blossoms on bare branches. The room itself has always been painted the same color, a bright, almost Chinese, yellow, giving the effect of sunlight even on the darkest day. I began working here on a small desk with a table set at right angles to it; then I had a desk built to cover the same floor plan but with the triangular hole filled in; later, I had it expanded to take a computer and more drawers, so that it is now almost horseshoe in shape. My old (and late) friend the novelist Brian Moore once spent a fortnight working here, and remarked afterwards that it made him feel like a TV newscaster: he kept expecting, when he turned, to see a female colleague at his elbow waiting to take up the next news story. I use the computer for e-mail and shopping; the I.B.M. 196c — 30 years old itself — for writing (or rather, second drafting: nowadays I generally first draft by hand). It is getting increasingly difficult to find ribbons and lift-off tape, but I shall use the machine until it drops. It hums quietly, as if urging me on — whereas the computer is inert, silent, indifferent. The room is usually very untidy: like many writers, I aspire to be a clean-desk person, but admit the daily reality is very dirty. So I have to walk carefully as I enter my study; but am always happy to be here.
在他的妻子、文学经纪人派特·卡伐纳(Pat Kavanagh)去世五年后，他将悲伤写进新书《生活的层次》（Levels of Life, Knopf出版社）。我已经在这个房间里工作了30多年。它在房子的二层，俯视窗外的两棵杏树。它们每年先开花后长叶，所以如果年景好，我会看到窗外光秃秃的树枝上同时开满雪白和粉红的花朵。房间从来都是漆成这个颜色：明亮的黄色，有些像中国黄，所以即使在最阴暗的日子里，它也显得阳光灿烂。我最初在一个小桌前写作，旁边一张饭桌与它形成直角；后来我在同样的位置放了一张定制的书桌，补上了原来那个三角形的空隙。再后来，我又把书桌加大，摆放电脑并容纳更多抽屉，现在它已经几乎是马蹄形了。我已故的老友布莱恩·摩尔(Brian Moore)曾在这里工作过两周，后来说起这张书桌让他感觉自己像是一位电视播音员。每次他转过头，似乎肘边会有另一位女播音员在等着播报下一条新闻。我用电脑收发邮件、网上购物。那台30年历史的IBM196c打字机用来写作（实际上是用来写第二稿，如今第一稿基本上都是手写）。现在已经越来越难买到打字色带和修改带了，但这台打字机我会一直用下去，直到它坏掉为止。打字的时候它发出轻微的哼响，似乎在鼓励我——而电脑则是毫无感觉，悄无声息，无动于衷。房间通常杂乱无章：与很多作家一样，我渴望成为书桌整洁的人，但承认脏乱的现实。所以我每次进入书房都要小心翼翼地走路；但在这里我总是很开心。
JHUMPA LAHIRI
裘帕·拉希莉(Jhumpa Lahiri)
Barnes paints a portrait of grief five years after the death of his wife, the literary agent Pat Kavanagh, in “Levels of Life” (Knopf).
这位作家在伦敦北部书房的桌前创作了多部作品，包括获得2011年曼·布克奖的小说《终结的感觉》(The Sense of an Ending)。
I have worked in this room for 30 years. It is on the first floor, overlooking the tops of two prunus trees, which flower before they leaf, so that in a lucky year there can be both snow and pink blossoms on bare branches. The room itself has always been painted the same color, a bright, almost Chinese, yellow, giving the effect of sunlight even on the darkest day. I began working here on a small desk with a table set at right angles to it; then I had a desk built to cover the same floor plan but with the triangular hole filled in; later, I had it expanded to take a computer and more drawers, so that it is now almost horseshoe in shape. My old (and late) friend the novelist Brian Moore once spent a fortnight working here, and remarked afterwards that it made him feel like a TV newscaster: he kept expecting, when he turned, to see a female colleague at his elbow waiting to take up the next news story. I use the computer for e-mail and shopping; the I.B.M. 196c — 30 years old itself — for writing (or rather, second drafting: nowadays I generally first draft by hand). It is getting increasingly difficult to find ribbons and lift-off tape, but I shall use the machine until it drops. It hums quietly, as if urging me on — whereas the computer is inert, silent, indifferent. The room is usually very untidy: like many writers, I aspire to be a clean-desk person, but admit the daily reality is very dirty. So I have to walk carefully as I enter my study; but am always happy to be here.
在他的妻子、文学经纪人派特·卡伐纳(Pat Kavanagh)去世五年后，他将悲伤写进新书《生活的层次》（Levels of Life, Knopf出版社）。我已经在这个房间里工作了30多年。它在房子的二层，俯视窗外的两棵杏树。它们每年先开花后长叶，所以如果年景好，我会看到窗外光秃秃的树枝上同时开满雪白和粉红的花朵。房间从来都是漆成这个颜色：明亮的黄色，有些像中国黄，所以即使在最阴暗的日子里，它也显得阳光灿烂。我最初在一个小桌前写作，旁边一张饭桌与它形成直角；后来我在同样的位置放了一张定制的书桌，补上了原来那个三角形的空隙。再后来，我又把书桌加大，摆放电脑并容纳更多抽屉，现在它已经几乎是马蹄形了。我已故的老友布莱恩·摩尔(Brian Moore)曾在这里工作过两周，后来说起这张书桌让他感觉自己像是一位电视播音员。每次他转过头，似乎肘边会有另一位女播音员在等着播报下一条新闻。我用电脑收发邮件、网上购物。那台30年历史的IBM196c打字机用来写作（实际上是用来写第二稿，如今第一稿基本上都是手写）。现在已经越来越难买到打字色带和修改带了，但这台打字机我会一直用下去，直到它坏掉为止。打字的时候它发出轻微的哼响，似乎在鼓励我——而电脑则是毫无感觉，悄无声息，无动于衷。房间通常杂乱无章：与很多作家一样，我渴望成为书桌整洁的人，但承认脏乱的现实。所以我每次进入书房都要小心翼翼地走路；但在这里我总是很开心。
JHUMPA LAHIRI
裘帕·拉希莉(Jhumpa Lahiri)
Danticat’s “Claire of the Sea Light” (Knopf) digs deep into the intertwining lives of the residents of a small town where a young girl goes missing.
丹蒂凯特的新书《海之光的克莱尔》（Claire of the Sea Light, Knopf出版社）讲述了一个小镇上一位女孩失踪的故事，深刻揭示了小镇居民们盘根错节的生活。
I like looking at faces while I work. Not actual faces, but paintings and photographs. I keep a pile of pictures, intriguing faces torn from newspaper or magazine pages, from which I might borrow distinctive features and gestures for my characters.
我写作的时候喜欢看着人脸。 不是真人的面孔，而是画像和照片。我保留了一堆各种人脸的图片，从报纸和杂志上剪下来的令人印象深刻的面孔，我可能从这些面孔中借用一些独特的面部特征和动作，用在我创作的人物身上。
The paintings and prints around my desk are mostly gifts from friends and sometimes total strangers. I live between Miami’s Design District and Little Haiti neighborhoods, which means there are always amazing things to look at around me.
我桌边的画像和影印图片多数是来自朋友，有时是陌生人的礼物。我住在迈阿密的设计艺术区和小海地区之间，这意味着我身边总是能看到一些美妙的东西。
I was sitting in a neighborhood deli once having lunch with my daughters and trying to do a bit of work at the same time. Sitting next to us was Dr. Ferdie Pacheco, Muhammad Ali’s former physician and a well-known artist. At the end of the meal, he handed me a drawing that he had just dashed off on a napkin. Once when I went to visit my friend Edouard Duval Carrié in his Little Haiti studio with my oldest daughter, he took a picture of us and later enlarged it and put it in one of his signature frames. I like to keep those things nearby because they remind me of the indispensable generosity of my immediate and larger artist community.
有一次，我与女儿们在家附近的一个小吃店吃午饭，同时试图写些东西。坐在我们身边的是菲尔迪·帕切科(Ferdie Pacheco)医生，他是拳王默罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)的前任内科医生，同时也是一位知名艺术家。 饭后，他递给我一副他在餐巾上匆匆而就的图画。另外一次，我带着我的大女儿去朋友爱德华·杜瓦尔·卡利(Edouard Duval Carrié)位于小海地的工作室去拜访他，他为我们拍了张照片，后来把它放大了，嵌在他自己创作的标志性的画框里。我喜欢把这些艺术品放在身边，因为它们总是能让我想起我的身边和周围更大的艺术家群体的热情和慷慨，这些对我来说不可或缺。
However, the picture that has been with me the longest is a photograph of Jean-Michel Basquiat, which I’ve had since moving into my first solo apartment in my mid-20s. A friend who knew how much I love Basquiat gave me that picture, and fearing that writer-type notoriety might go to my head, wrote on the card that accompanied it, “Don’t ever believe your own hype.” I’ve had that picture on all my desks, at eye level, ever since.
但我保存最久的一张图片则是一张艺术家让-米歇尔·巴斯奎亚特(Jean-Michel Basquiat)的照片。从我20多岁第一次搬进单身公寓以来，我一直把它带在身边。这是一位了解我多么痴迷巴斯奎亚特的朋友送给我的礼物。这位朋友怕我被作家的自负冲昏了头，在照片旁边的卡片上写道：“永远不要相信你的自吹自擂。”从那以后，我就一直把这张照片摆在书桌上与视线齐平的地方，从未离开过。
Sometimes when I’m stuck and can’t write, I just sit there and stare at Basquiat. Or I sit under my desk and stare into space. Either way, I know that when I’m ready to get back to work, there will be all these faces there to greet me, silent witnesses to my days of both agony and joy.
有时，当我思绪枯竭无法写作的时候，我就会坐在那里，盯着巴斯奎亚特发呆。或者坐在桌前，盯着天空。不管怎样，我知道当我重拾灵感时，面前这些面孔都会在这里迎接我，默默见证着我的痛苦和愉悦。
RICHARD DAWKINS
理查德·道金斯(Richard Dawkins)
In “An Appetite for Wonder” (Ecco), Dawkins gives readers insight into his own evolution as a man and a thinker.
在他的新书《玄妙的诱惑》(An Appetite for Wonder，Ecco出版社)中，道金斯讲述了自己作为普通人和思想家的演变历程。
Well, I don’t write only here. My untidy habits drive me to follow the slash-and-burn (or Mad Hatter) principle. Work on a virgin table until the mess becomes unbearable, then move on to a clean table in a clean room — or, on a beautiful summer day like this, one of the five tables dotted around the garden. Trash that table and move on again. Actually, in the case of the massive 8-foot-square, 6-inch-thick, rough-hewn stone table (Purbeck Jurassic limestone), “dotted” is hardly the word.
我并不只在这里写作。我的脏乱习惯迫使我采取“刀耕火种”（或者叫“疯狂帽匠”）的工作方式——在一张一尘不染的书桌上工作，直到书桌脏乱得无法忍受，再搬到一个干净房间一张干净的桌子上。或者，如果是像今天这样的舒爽夏日，到散布在花园中的五张桌子其中一张去写作，把桌子弄脏弄乱，然后再搬到下一张桌子上。当然，“散布”这个词用在花园中那张八英尺见方、六英寸厚的糙面大石桌（产于珀贝克地区的侏罗纪石灰石）上，很不恰当。
But there’s more to be said about the mess. There’s a weird sense in which I relish the contrast between the paper compost heap and the order and clarity of what’s inside the laptop computer lurching aslant it. I’m pretty obsessive and a perfectionist about what I write. Each page is read over, several dozens of times, and it changes every time, for the better I hope, by a sort of winnowing process that resembles natural selection — Darwinnowing I suppose we could call it. I find it hard to believe how writers managed in precomputer days. Only my first book, “The Selfish Gene,” was written on a typewriter and every page was a phantasmagoria of crossings out and Scotch-taped inserts. When eventually a clean copy came back from the professional typist, it was as if the sun had come out. The contrast between the Scotch-taped mess and the elegant typescript now comes to mind when I compare the deep litter on my desk to the permanently pristine page on the computer screen.
但是，这种脏乱可是有讲究的。从某种怪异的含义上，我很欣赏桌面上废纸堆的杂乱与废纸堆上斜放着的笔记本电脑里内容的清晰与有序之前所形成的对比。在写作方面，我相当执着，是个完美主义者。每一页都要被来来回回审读几十次，每次都有所改动，我希望是越改越好了。这是一个去芜存菁的过程，有点类似达尔文的自然选择——我们可以称它为“达尔文式的优选”吧。我难以想象在电脑出现之前，作家们是怎么处理的。我只有第一本书《自私的基因》(The Selfish Gene)是用打字机打印出来的，每一页都密布着各种涂改、胶带粘贴上的补充文字，令人恐惧。每次专业打字员誊写出整洁的修改稿，简直如同拨云见日一般。现在，当我把书桌上凌乱的废纸堆与电脑上永远整洁的书稿做对比时，我就想起了当年涂改得一塌糊涂的初稿与打印出的修改稿的天壤之别。
I was actually writing this very piece at the Jurassic table in the garden when the New York Times photographers arrived. But they obstinately refused to take their camera outside, preferring the chaos of my room.
实际上，当纽约时报的摄影记者来拍摄照片时，我正在花园中那张大石桌上写这篇东西。但他们固执地拒绝把照相机拿到室外拍摄，他们更喜欢我书房中的凌乱。
JESMYN WARD
杰斯敏·沃德(Jesmyn Ward)
In "Men We Reaped" (Bloomsbury), Ward examines the harrowing circumstances that brought about the loss of five important men in her life in five years.
在她的新书《我们收获的那些男人》（Men We Reaped, Bloomsbury出版社）里，沃德讲述了她在五年中失去了自己人生中重要的五位男性的痛心情形。
I have a room in my house that will one day be a writing and library space, but right now that room is so disorganized that anyone who sees it must think that I'm developing a hoarding problem. I'm not. I just don't have bookshelves, or a desk, or file cabinets yet. But I do have boxes and boxes of books and paper. I don't understand why the rest of my house is fairly spartan, and yet the room I intend to write in is burdened by everything I need to do one day. There's the sewing machine I need to take to my grandmother's house so she can give me lessons. I haven't taken it out of the box yet. There are at least two bags of clothing that I've been intending to take to Goodwill for the last seven months. There are boxes of receipts I'm saving for my taxes. If this room is reflective of my writing mind, then procrastination is clogging that mind. In addition, the time I have to write is already limited because I have a newborn. This means that I write wherever and whenever I can around my house. I've written while sitting on my bed, balancing my computer and my kid on my lap. I've written at the dining room table in the breakfast nook. I've even written in the bathroom. However, writing in these places poses problems. If I write in my bed, I'm tempted to fall asleep or read or play with my daughter. If I write in the dining room, my family distracts me, or the television does, or suddenly I realize the kitchen needs extensive cleaning because, again, I'm a champion procrastinator with limited time. I've found that I do my best work and the most work when I write in a corner of my bedroom, in a rocking chair, where my bedside table has become, by necessity, a small bookshelf. Somehow, I'm making it work.
我家里有个房间，某一天它会变成一个写作和藏书的空间，但现在这个房间乱得厉害，任何人看到它会觉得我患上了强迫囤积症。我可没有。我只是还没有书架、书桌和文件柜。但我有一箱一箱的书和文件。我不明白，为什么我的房子其他部分都很简朴，但我用来写作的那个房间却堆满了我所有该做而没做的东西。我要把那架缝纫机拿到我祖母家里，好向她学缝纫，但我还没把它从箱子里拿出来呢。还有至少两袋衣物，我计划捐给好意(Goodwill)二手衣物店，结果已经放在这里七个月了。还有几个盒子装满了各种收据，是我攒着用来报税用的。如果这个房间能代表我的头脑的话，那拖延症已经让我无法思考了。另外，我能用来写作的时间本来就有限，因为我不久前刚生了孩子。这意味着我要在家里随时随地抽空写作。我坐在床上写，腿上一边放着电脑，一边放着孩子。我还在餐厅内的早餐桌上写过。我甚至在卫生间里写作。但是，在这些地方写作仍旧有问题。如果我在床上写，会忍不住睡着，或去看书，或是逗我女儿玩。我如果在餐厅写作，家人或是电视机会让我走神，我有时会忽然想到厨房已经很久没有彻底清理了，因为我时间总是太少，又总喜欢拖延。我发现我坐在卧室的一个角落里的一张扶手椅写出的东西最多，质量也最高。我的床头柜已经变成了一个小书架。不管怎样，没出过问题。