In her exploration of the Catholic religion, “Letter to a Priest,” written the year before her death in 1943, Simone Weil noticed at some point that “for any man a change of religion is as dangerous a thing as a change of language is for a writer. It may turn out a success, but it can also have disastrous consequences.” The Romanian philosopher Emil Cioran, who was one such writer, talks of the change of language as a catastrophic event in any author’s biography. And rightly so.
西蒙娜·韦伊(Simone Weil)于1943年去世前一年，曾著《致一位神父的信》(Letter to a Priest)，探究天主教。她在书中某处提到：“对任何人而言，改变宗教，都如同作家改变语言一样危险。最后可能会成功，但也有可能产生灾难性的后果。”罗马尼亚哲学家萧沆(Emil Cioran)就曾是这样一位作家。谈及改变语言，他认为这对任何一个作家而言，都是其人生经历中一个灾难性事件。理当如此。
When you become a writer, you don’t do so in abstract, but in relation to a certain language. To practice writing is to grow roots into that language; the better writer you become, the deeper the roots. Literary virtuosity almost always betrays a sense of deep, comfortable immersion into a familiar soil. As such, if for any reason the writer has to change languages, the experience is nothing short of life-threatening. Not only do you have to start everything again from scratch, but you also have to undo what you have been doing for almost as long as you have been around. Changing languages is not for the fainthearted, nor for the impatient.
当你成为一位作家，你并非抽象地成为一位作家；这一行为要与某种语言相关联。而从事写作，就是在这门语言里扎根：作为作家，你越优秀，扎根就越深。精湛的文学技巧，几乎总是无意识地暴露出一种深深浸润于熟悉的土壤中的、舒适自如的感觉。因此，如果作家因为任何原因而不得不改变语言，那这种经历简直危及生命。你不仅需要一切重新从零开始，而且还必须撤销自出生后就几乎一直在做的事。改变语言不适于懦弱的人，或缺乏耐心的人。
Painful as it can be at a strictly human level, the experience can also be philosophically fascinating. Rarely do we get the chance to observe a more dramatic re-making of oneself. For a writer’s language, far from being a mere means of expression, is above all a mode of subjective existence and a way of experiencing the world. She needs the language not just to describe things, but to see them. The world reveals itself in a certain manner to the Japanese writer, and in quite another to the one who writes in Finnish. A writer’s language is not just something she uses, but a constitutive part of what she is. This is why to abandon your native tongue and to adopt another is to dismantle yourself, piece by piece, and then to put yourself together again, in a different form.
从严格意义上的人性层面来讲，这过程可能令人痛苦，但这种经历在哲学角度上却也能令人迷醉。我们罕有机会，得以观察比这更为戏剧性、更生动的自我再造过程。一个作家使用的语言，不仅仅是一种用以表达的手段，而最为首要的是，这是一种主观存在的模式，以及一种体验世界的方式。作家需要这门语言，不仅仅是以之描绘事物，而是以之“看见”及“领会”事物。世界以某种方式将自身展现给日语写作者，而以另一种相当不同的方式展现给使用芬兰语写作的人。一个作家的语言，不仅是她使用的某种东西，而是她自身的一个基本组成部分。这就是为什么放弃母语、换而采用另一种语言，相当于一块一块地肢解你自己，然后再以不同的形式把你自己重新组装起来。
To begin with, when changing languages you descend to a zero-point of your existence. There must be even a moment, however brief, when you cease to be. You’ve just quit the old language and the new one hasn’t received you yet; you are now in limbo, between worlds, hanging over the abyss. A change of language usually happens when the writer is exiled or self-exiled. Yet the physical exile is doubled in such cases by an ontological one — an exile on the margins of being. It is as though, for a moment, as she passes through the void – the narrow crack between languages, where there are no words to hold on to and nothing can be named – the self of the writer is not any more. Weil’s comparison to the religious conversion is indeed apt because, just like in the case of the convert, the writer who changes languages undergoes a death-and-rebirth experience. In an important way, that person dies and then comes back as another. “When I changed my language, I annihilated my past. I changed my entire life,” says Cioran.
首先，当你改变语言时，你降到了你自身存在的零位原点。甚至必定会有那么一刻，无论多短暂，你已不复“存在”。你刚刚放弃了旧语言，新语言又还未接纳你；你在天堂与地狱的“灵泊”边缘，置身世界与世界之间，悬荡于无尽深渊。改变语言，通常发生在作家遭流放，或自我放逐时。然而，在这种情况下，形而下的放逐，会因形而上的本体放逐——即放逐至自身“存在”的边际——而加倍放大。这就好像是，一时间，当作家穿越空虚，即语言之间的狭窄缝隙，无词可依、无名可称，她的“自身”已然不在。韦伊将之同改宗易教相比，的确恰如其分。因为，正如改变宗教的情况，改变语言的作家也经历了一场“死亡与重生”的体验。那个人死了，以另一个人复生，其过程及方式影响深重。“当我改变了我的语言后，我消灭了我的过去。我改变了我整个人生。”萧沆说。
When she starts writing in the new language the world is born anew to the writer. Yet the most spectacular rebirth is her own. For this is a project of total reconstruction of the self, where no stone is left unturned and nothing will look the same again. Your native language – what you were before – appears as less and less familiar to you. But that doesn’t bother you at all; in fact, you look forward to a moment when you will use it as just another foreign language. Not long after adopting French, Samuel Beckett, an Irishman, complained of his native English: “Horrible language, which I still know too well.” The ontological promise of complete renewal that comes with the new language is nothing short of intoxicating.
当作家开始用一种新的语言写作时，对她而言，世界宛若重获新生。然而最蔚为壮观的重生是她自己。因为，这项工程就是对自身的完全重构，穷极所有、巨细靡遗，一切无不焕然一新。你的母语——从前的你——对你而言显得越来越不熟悉。但这一点都不令你烦扰；事实上，你渴望某时某刻，能将母语也作为另一种外语来使用。采用法语后不久，爱尔兰作家塞缪尔·贝克特(Samuel Beckett)抱怨了他的母语英语：“可怕的语言，可我如今仍对它太过了解。”随新语言而来的，是有望全面更新的本体允诺，简直陶醉人心。
When you are re-born in this manner it is as if all the possibilities are open; you are given a chance to re-fashion yourself into whatever shape you choose. You are your own demiurge: out of nothing, as it were, you can become everything. Asked, in 1954, why he chose to change languages, Beckett answered: out of a “need to be ill equipped”. His response is exceedingly sly because, if you listen more attentively, its boastful tone is deafening. For in French the need “to be ill equipped” (d’être mal armé) doesn’t sound very different from the need to be (another) Mallarmé (d’être Mallarmé). Anything less than a Mallarmé status would not have been enough for a Beckett on his quest for the new self. Eventually, he didn’t become Mallarmé, but Samuel Beckett, the French author of “Molloy,” “Malone Dies,” or “Waiting for Godot,” which is probably just as good. And as if there was not enough alienation in his adoption of a new language, he alienated himself one more time by translating his French work into English. Elsewhere Beckett claimed that he preferred French because it allowed him to write “without style.” Yet writing “without style” is one of the writing styles most difficult to accomplish; you really need to be well equipped to do it.There is something “natural” in one’s becoming a writer in one’s native language. Having reached self-consciousness into that language, having assimilated it along with the mother’s milk, so to speak, such a writer finds himself in a somewhat privileged position: he only has to bring to perfection whatever he has received. Granted, rigorous training, self-discipline and constant practice are necessary; after all, art is the opposite of nature. Yet no matter how you look at it, there is a distinct sense of continuity and organic growing in this writer’s trajectory.
当你通过这种方式重生后，就好像所有可能性都对你敞开了大门；你获得了一个机会，可以按你选择的样子，重塑自我。你成了你自己的造物主：可以说，从空无之中，你能够成为一切。1954年，当被问及为何选择改变语言时，贝克特答道：是出自于“需要令自己车萎马羸”。他的回答可谓极度狡猾，因为，若你仔细聆听弦外之音，他这话中自负的调调简直震耳欲聋。法语中所谓需要“车萎马羸”(d'être mal armé)，听上去与需要“成为（另一个）马拉美”(d'être Mallarmé)没太大区别（马拉美指法国抽象主义诗人斯特凡·马拉美[Stéphane Mallarmé]——译注）。在寻找新自我的这条道路上，任何不及马拉美高度的状态，都无法令一个贝克特这样的人满足。最终，他并没有成为马拉美，而成为了塞缪尔·贝克特——著有《莫洛伊》(Molloy)、《马龙之死》(Malone Dies)或《等待戈多》(Waiting for Godot)的法语作家——这也毫不逊色。而且，对他而言，采用一种新语言似乎还不够异化，他进而将自己的法文作品翻译为英文，再次异化自己。另在某处，贝克特还承认过他更喜欢法语，因为法语令他写作时“没有风格”。而“没有风格”的写作，正是最难实现的写作风格之一；实际上，你需要香车宝马以及很好的驾驭能力才可实现。一个人以自己母语写作，成为作家，其中有一些“自然而然”的成分。深入这门语言，获得了自我意识，在汲取所谓母语的母乳时逐渐同化母语，这样的一个写作者会发现自己占得某种先机：他已然获得的，无论是什么，只需臻备完美。诚然，严苛训练、修养自律，以及持续实践都必不可少；但毕竟，艺术是自然的对立面。而无论你怎么看，在他成为作家的轨迹中，始终贯穿某种明显的连续性和有机生长。
Becoming a writer in a language that is not yours by birth, though, goes against nature; there is nothing organic in this process, only artifice. There are no linguistic “instincts” to guide you on the path and the language’s guardian angels rarely whisper into your ear; you are truly on your own. Says Cioran: “When I wrote in Romanian, words were not independent of me. As soon as I began to write in French I consciously chose each word. I had them before me, outside of me, each in its place. And I chose them: now I’ll take you, then you.”
可是，成为一个不用母语写作的作家，就有悖自然；这个过程毫无任何有机性可言，一切都是人工的技艺和手段。一路上没有语言的“本能”指引你，这门语言的守护天使亦鲜在你耳边私语；你真正就是靠自己了。萧沆说：“当我用罗马尼亚语写作，词语并不独立于我。而一当我开始用法语写作，我就有意识地挑选每个词。这些词在我眼前，在我之外，各就其位。然后我就从中挑选：我要选你，然后是你。”
Many who shift to writing in a second language develop an unusually acute linguistic awareness. In an interview he gave in 1979, some seven years after he moved to the United States from his native Russia, Joseph Brodsky speaks of his ongoing “love affair with the English language.” Language is such an overwhelming presence for these people that it comes to structure their new biographies. “English is the only interesting thing that’s left in my life,” says Brodsky. The need to find le mot juste starts out as a concern, turns into an obsession, and ends up as a way of life. These writers excel at the art of making virtue of necessity: out of a need to understand how the new language works, they turn into linguistic maniacs; out of a concern for correctness, they become compulsive grammarians.
许多改用第二语言写作的人，都形成了一种异常敏锐的语言意识。1979年，已从故乡俄罗斯移居美国约七年的约瑟夫·布罗茨基(Joseph Brodsky)接受采访，谈及自己与日俱增的“对英语这门语言的爱情”。语言对这些人而言是如此压倒性的一种存在，以至终于构建他们新的传记。“英语是我生命所剩唯一有趣的事。”布罗茨基说。想要找到“恰到好处的词”，最初是一种关注和顾虑，继而变成一种痴迷，最后成为一种生活方式。这些作家善于“实逼处此未始不可”之艺：出于要理解新语言如何运作的需要，他们变成了语言狂人；出于对准确性的利害顾虑，他们成为了欲罢不能的文法家。
When he moved to France at the age of twenty-six, Cioran’s command of French was barely decent, yet he ended up as one of the greatest stylists of that language. Similarly, Joseph Conrad learned English relatively late in life – which did not prevent him from coming to be one of its most sophisticated representatives. Vladimir Nabokov is doubtlessly another such representative, even though he started learning English at an early age. The same pattern again and again: everything out of nothing, from halting ignorance to a mode of expression of the first order.
26岁那年，萧沆移居法国，当时他运用法语的能力捉襟见肘，但最后却跻身法语文体学大家之列。类似地，约瑟夫·康拉德(Joseph Conrad)接触英语相对较晚，但这丝毫没有妨碍他最终成为这门语言最高深老练的代表性人物之一。弗拉基米尔·纳博科夫(Vladimir Nabokov)毫无疑问也是另一位同样杰出的代表，虽则他年幼时就已开始学英语。一而再、再而三，都是同样的模式：从空无中生出一切，从踟蹰不前的无知，到一等娴熟的表达模式。
Towards the end of Ray Bradbury’s novel “Fahrenheit 451” the reader comes across something whose significance exceeds the confines of the story. It is the scene where Montague meets the “book people.” In a world where printed texts are banned, they have dedicated their lives to preserving the “great books” of the humankind; each commits a book to memory and spends the whole life reciting it. They are living texts, these people, language incarnated. Apart from the masterpieces that inhabit them, they don’t mean much. Their bodies matter as little as the paper on which a book is printed. In a way, a writer who has changed languages is not very different from these people. In the long run, because of their compulsive preoccupation with linguistic precision and stylistic perfection, a colonization of sorts takes place: language penetrates all the details of that writer’s life, it informs and re-shapes it, it proclaims its dominion over her – it takes over. The writer’s self is now under the occupation of an invading power: her own writing in the new language.
在雷·布莱伯利(Ray Bradbury)的小说《华氏451》(Fahrenheit 451)将近结尾部分，读者会读到一些内容，其意义已超出了小说故事本身的局限。有一幕，蒙塔格(Montag)遇到了“书人”。在一个印刷文字遭禁的世界里，他们致力于保存人类的“伟大著作”，每人脑中记下一本书，穷尽余生背诵内容。这些人，具语言以人形，是活着的文本。除开那些栖居于他们头脑的杰作，他们的存在再无太大意义。他们肉体的重要性，与印刷书籍的纸张一样微小。在某种意义上讲，一个改变了语言的作家，与这些人并无太大不同。长远来看，由于他们对于语言的精确性，以及文体完美性、强迫性的专注，某种殖民化的过程就会发生：语言贯穿了那个作家一生的所有细节，赋之予特征，渗透且重塑生活，宣告对她的主权统治——它接管了。而这个作家的自身现在则被一股侵略势力占据：写作是她自己的，但以一种新的语言进行。
In a certain sense, then, it could be said that in the end you don’t really change languages; the language changes you. At a deeper, more personal level, writing literature in another language has a distinctly performative dimension: as you do it something happens to you, the language acts upon you. The book you are writing ends up writing you in turn. The result is a “ghostification” of sorts. For to change languages as a writer is to undergo a process of dematerialization: before you know it, you are language more than anything else. One day, suddenly, a certain intuition starts visiting you, namely that you are not made primarily out of flesh anymore, but out of lines and rhymes, of rhetorical strategies and narrative patterns. Just like the “book people,” you don’t mean much apart the texts that inhabit you. More than a man or a woman of flesh and blood, you are now rather a fleshing out of the language itself, a literary project, very much like the books you write. The writer who has changed languages is truly a ghost writer – the only one worthy of the name.
如此，某种意义上，可以说最终你并没有真正改变语言，而是语言改变了你。在更深、更个人层面上，以另一种语言进行文学写作，具有一种明显可辨的述行维度：你写作时，有一些什么，是在你身上发生了；语言对你起了作用。你写的书，最终其实反过来书写你。这个结果就类似某种“幽灵代笔化”。因为，作为一个作家，要改变语言，就是要经历一个“去物质化”的过程：你还未反应过来，就已经成为了语言本身，而远非其他一切。某一天，突然，某种直觉开始造访你，换句话说，你不再主要由肉体构成，而是由诗行与韵律、修辞策略与叙事模式构成。恰如“书人”，离开栖居于你的文本，你便没有太大意义。你的存在超越了血肉之躯的男女，你现在更像是语言本身的某种体现和化身、某种文学的投映，就非常像你写的书。改变了语言的作家才真正是幽灵作家——也只有这样的作家，才配得上这个名字。
Having done all this, having gone through the pain of changing languages and undergone the death-and-rebirth initiation, you are sometimes given – as a reward, as it were – access to a metaphysical insight of an odd, savage beauty. It is the notion that the world may be nothing other than a story in the making and that we, who inhabit it, may be nothing more than characters. Characters in search of an author, that is.
完成所有这一切，经受了改变语言的痛苦，经历了“死亡与重生”的入门仪式，有时你会获得某种所谓奖励——你得以形而上地洞察一种奇特而原始野性之美。这是一种观念，即世界可能无非只是一个正在形成中的故事，而我们栖居其中，可能无非只是角色。更确切地说，是正在寻找作者的角色。