Today’s smartphones can take pretty crisp pictures, so buying a regular camera might sound like a waste of money. Now imagine buying a fully manual Leica digital camera that, with a body and lens, can cost as much as $20,000.
如今的智能手机能够拍摄出漂亮而清晰的照片，所以购买一台普通相机的做法听起来似乎是在浪费钱。现在，请想象一下，购买一台有机身和镜头的全手动徕卡(Leica)数码相机竟然需要高达2万美元（约合12.23万元人民币）。
Ridiculous? Perhaps. But the hard-core photographers who own a Leica swear by its craftsmanship, lens quality and lack of bells and whistles even as they acknowledge that their beloved camera gear is, well, not for everyone.
荒谬？或许吧。但是拥有徕卡相机的专业级摄影师非常信赖它的工艺水准和镜头质量，而且也喜欢它那种没有花哨的附加功能的感觉。虽然他们也承认，自己钟爱的照相机并不适合所有人。
The question is whether your love of photography — and perhaps your skill — runs deep enough to justify dropping enough money to buy a car, on a camera.
问题是，你对摄影的喜爱程度——也许还有你的技能——是否足以让你用能够买下一辆车的钱来购买一部相机。
“For most people, the Leica is absolutely the wrong camera. But if you’re really, really dedicated to the craft, then the pictures it can take are beautiful,” said Christopher Michel, a photographer and investor with Nautilus Ventures.
摄影师、鹦鹉螺风投(Nautilus Ventures)的投资人克里斯托弗·米歇尔(Christopher Michel)说，“对于大多数人而言，徕卡相机绝对不合适。但是如果你真的在潜心研究摄影技巧，那么用徕卡就能拍出漂亮的照片。”
Leica, based in Germany, released its first high-end digital camera in 2006, the M8, but the company has been in the camera business for almost a century. In the 1950s, Leica rose to fame when it introduced the M-System camera.
总部在德国的徕卡于2006年推出了第一款高端数码相机M8，但是公司从事相机这一行已有将近一个世纪。20世纪50年代，徕卡因为推出M系统相机(M-System)而一举成名。
Although it had a rough start crossing into digital, Leica now sells almost a dozen varieties of digital cameras, including some point-and-shoots. But the most coveted models are still in M-System series, with the range finder body that was introduced in 1932.
虽然徕卡在刚开始进军数码业务时遇到了困难，但它现在已有十多款数码相机面市，其中还包括一些傻瓜相机。但是，人们最梦寐以求的型号还是1932年引入旁轴机身的M系。
Unlike D.S.L.R. (digital single-lens reflex) cameras, in which a photo subject is viewed through a mirror, range finders offer crisper images because the lens is closer to the sensor of the camera. The shutter on a range finder is also incredibly still and quiet — unlike the D.S.L.R., in which the mirror flips up and down at the moment a photo is snapped — so little vibration is added to a photo when the shutter is pressed.
与通过反光镜来观察拍摄对象的数码单反相机不同，旁轴相机能够提供更清晰的图像，因为其镜头离相机的传感器比较近。旁轴相机的快门还非常安静——这也与数码单反不同，数码单反的反光镜会在拍摄照片的瞬间上下翻动——所以按下快门的时候，基本不会对照片造成振动。
Still, focusing with a Leica range finder is not as easy as just snapping a picture with your iPhone.
然而，使用徕卡旁轴相机时，对焦绝不会像用iPhone抓拍那么容易。
First, the camera focus is completely manual. A Leica viewfinder shows two versions of the scene before you. The trick is to line up the images and make them overlap over the area to be in focus.
首先，相机的对焦完全是手动的。徕卡的取景器会显示拍摄对象的两个影像。关键就在于排列这些影像，使它们在对焦区域重合起来。
Leica offers several digital camera bodies. The Leica M-E is the lowest-priced model of the M-System. The bare-bones M-E body costs $5,450. It has an 18-megapixel sensor and can shoot at an ISO of 160 to 2,500 (the ISO number measures the sensitivity to light). Photos taken during the day will be flawlessly clear, while in very low light the images will deteriorate and become grainy without a flash.
徕卡提供了多款数码相机机身。徕卡M-E是M系统中价格最低的型号。一台M-E裸机的价格为5450美元。它配有一个1800万像素的传感器，能在ISO为160到2500时进行拍摄（ISO的数值代表感光度）。白天所拍摄的照片的清晰度堪称完美无缺，但是在光线暗淡时，成像效果就会变差，如果没有闪光灯，就会出现颗粒。
The latest high-end camera from the company, the Leica M, was announced late last year and costs $6,950. It features a newly designed 24-megapixel CMOS sensor (CMOS stands for complementary metal-oxide semiconductor), which makes it possible for the camera to shoot in lower-light situations while keeping a crisp image. The Leica M is the only M-System camera that can shoot video.
公司最新的高端相机是徕卡M(Leica M)，它于去年年末发布，售价为6950美元。这款相机配有一个新设计的2400万像素CMOS传感器（CMOS即complementary metal-oxide semiconductor，互补金属氧化物半导体），这样相机就可以在光线不足的情况下拍摄出清晰的照片了。徕卡M还是唯一能拍摄视频的M系统相机。
Leica also offers the Leica M Monochrom, an 18-megapixel camera that can shoot only black and white. Some people might ask why anyone would buy a camera that cannot even take a color picture, but Leica has poured years of research and development into optimizing the sensor on this camera for the subtlety of black-and-white photography.
徕卡还有一款叫做徕卡M Monochrom(Leica M Monochrom)的相机，它的像素为1800万，只能拍摄黑白照片。有人或许会问，有谁会购买一台连彩色照片都无法拍摄的相机呢？但是徕卡花了数年时间优化这台相机的传感器，使它能够拍出细腻的黑白照片。
The results from the Leica M Monochrom are astounding. Pictures have the tonality and contrast that make them look as if they were shot with real black-and-white film. The M Monochrom can also shoot at an ISO up to 10,000, which allows pictures to be taken in extremely low light.
徕卡M Monochrom的效果令人震惊。照片的色调和对比度使照片看起来就像是用真正的黑白胶片拍摄的。它的ISO最高可达10000，也就是说在光线极暗的情况下也能拍照。
Keep in mind that once you buy a Leica camera body, it still needs a lens. But this, professional photographers say, is where Leica excels.
别忘了，在购买了一个徕卡相机机身后，你还需要一个镜头。而专业摄影师会说，这才是徕卡表现最为出色的地方。
“Leica makes a lens the way it should be made, with metal and glass, while everyone else is making plastic lenses that are meant to be thrown away in a couple of years,” said Ken Rockwell, a photographer and expert on cameras and lenses. “The Leica lenses are so special because they are smaller, faster and sharper.”
“徕卡是在用正确的方式制作镜头，它采用了金属和玻璃，而其他公司的镜头则是用塑料做的，用了几年就得扔掉，”摄影师、相机和镜头方面的专家肯·洛克威尔(Ken Rockwell)说。“徕卡的镜头非常特别，因为它们体积更小、速度更快、也更清晰锐利。”
Mr. Rockwell notes that Leica’s lenses, which are still assembled by hand in Germany, do not have the added features of modern D.S.L.R.'s, like motors, and that the company uses the highest-grade glass available.
洛克威尔指出，至今仍在德国手工组装的徕卡镜头并没有马达等现代数码单反的附加功能，而且公司使用的是现有的最高等级的玻璃。
“The Leica glass,” Mr. Michel said, “adds that special ethereal quality to the image that no D.S.L.R. can match.”
“徕卡所使用的玻璃，”米歇尔说，“给图像增加了一种特殊的轻灵之感，这是任何数码单反都无法比拟的。”
I have tested almost all of the company’s cameras and lenses. The control I have with a manual Leica makes me realize that today’s abundance of buttons and features on most cameras often makes people take poorer pictures.
我几乎对徕卡公司所有的相机和镜头都进行了测试。通过把玩一台手动徕卡相机时，我感觉到，当今大多数相机上的大量按钮和特性往往对拍出更好的照片没有什么帮助。
Leica’s lenses can vary in price from $1,650 for the Leica 50mm f/2.5 Summarit-M, to the Leica 50mm f/0.95 Noctilux-M, which costs $10,950. Once you have recovered from seeing the price of the Noctilux-M, keep in mind it is considered one of the best low-light lenses in the world and has such a wide aperture it can shoot almost in darkness.
徕卡镜头从1650美元的徕卡Summarit-M(50mm f/2.5)到10950美元的徕卡Noctilux-M (50mm f/0.95)价格不等。也许Noctilux-M的价格让你大为震惊，但是请记住，它是世界公认的最好的低照度镜头之一，它的光圈非常大，可以在几乎漆黑一片的环境中拍摄。
The company names all of its lenses based on the amount of light a lens can let in through the aperture; these include the Summilux, Summicron, Summarit and Noctilux.
公司会根据通过光圈进入镜头的光线多少为所有镜头命名；其中包括Summilux、Summicron、Summarit和Noctilux。
If you have been doing the math, you might have noticed that the best Leica setup will cost almost $20,000. My personal Leica setup is half that. I own a used Leica M9-P with a Leica 50mm f1.4 Summilux lens, which cost almost $10,000, and although the price might make you choke on your morning coffee, I would give up my iPhone before I’d part with my Leica.
算一算就知道，最好的徕卡配置要花将近2万美元。我自己的徕卡配置的价格只有它的一半。我有一个二手的徕卡M9-P，它配有一个徕卡Summilux镜头(50mm f/1.4)，整套机器花了大概1万美元。虽然这个价格可能会让你在早上喝咖啡的时候被呛到，但是我宁可不要iPhone，也不愿意和我的徕卡相机分开。
This was true decades ago and is still true today. Henri Cartier-Bresson, considered by many to be the father of photojournalism, said in his biography, “The Mind’s Eye,” that when he discovered the Leica camera in the beginning of his career, “It became the extension of my eye, and I have never been separated from it since I found it.”
几十年前就是这样，今日依旧如此。被很多人视作摄影报道之父的亨利·卡蒂埃-布列松(Henri Cartier-Bresson)在他的传记《思想的眼睛》(The Mind’s Eye)中说，当他在职业生涯的开始发现徕卡相机时，“它就成了我的眼睛的延伸，自从发现它以后，我就再也与它分离过。”
But be forewarned: Although Leicas are tough and rugged, if your camera does break, be prepared to wait a couple of months for it to be fixed, because the company’s repair facilities are only in Germany. If you do buy a Leica, it will also take a long time to become completely used to the range finder and manual setup. Leicas are in such high demand that there is a three-month wait to purchase several of the latest models.
但是，我还要提前警告一下大家：虽然徕卡相机很结实，但是如果坏了，你就要做好等上几个月才能修好的准备，这是因为公司只在德国设有维修机构。如果你买了一台徕卡，你还需要花很长一段时间才能完全习惯它的旁轴系统和手动操作。徕卡相机的需求量非常大，要购买最新型号中的几款还要等上三个月之久。
“Don’t think that if you buy a Leica you’re going to be taking the same photos as the world’s best photojournalists,” Mr. Rockwell said. “The camera doesn’t take good pictures; the person holding it does.”
“不要以为买了一部徕卡相机以后，你就能拍出和世界上最好的摄影记者一样的照片，”洛克威尔说。“好照片不是相机拍出来的，而是拿着相机的人拍出来的。”