EVERY saleswoman will tell you that the customer is always transparent. Maybe not entirely, completely, but compared with the poker face a buyer thinks that he or she is wearing, there are always expressions and signals that are obvious to the practiced observer.
每一位售楼小姐都会告诉你，客户的心思往往一眼就能看出来。也许未必能够看穿、看透，但客户也并不像他们自己以为的那样摆着“扑克脸”，而是往往会在不经意间流露出一些表情和蛛丝马迹，这些细节对于老到的观察家来说，是显而易见的。
When I first started out in Manhattan real estate sales, my boss shrugged and shared one of his favorites with me. “People with clipboards,” he said, “never buy.”
在我刚开始做曼哈顿地产销售的那阵子，我的老板耸了耸肩，跟我分享了他的一则黄金信条。他说：“那些捧着写字板做记录的人，从来不会真的掏钱买房。”
Whenever I tell that anecdote, I get resistance from someone who claims to have been carrying a clipboard right before buying a kazillion-dollar-apartment in One57, and if I weren’t so quick to jump to conclusions, why then I’d have my own yacht. But in my experience, it is true that buyers and sellers of real estate send readable signals — the equivalent of poker “tells.”
每当我把这则趣闻告诉别人，都会有人提出异议，声称自己在买下纽约奢华大楼One57内的一套天价公寓前，一直是写字板不离手、随时随地做笔记的；而要不是我当初一时冲动过早下了结论，为何那时候我会想要一艘自己的游艇？不过就我的经验来看，买房者和售房者在举手投足间确实会暴露出一些明显的信号——同扑克牌玩家会露“马脚”是一个道理。
While every sale is different, there are also discernible stages that a customer goes through on the way to a transaction. A check with real estate brokers around the country indicates that many experienced ones “read the minds” of their customers — and can use their knowledge of consumer behavior to steer a market participant toward (or away from) a sale.
尽管每笔交易各有不同，但客户在拍板之前一般都会经历几个明显不同的阶段。同全国各地的房地产经纪人打听一下，你就会发现，很多经验丰富的经纪人都会“读”客户的心思——进而运用他们的消费者行为学知识，诱导市场参与者达成（或放弃）交易。
“Here’s a tell,” said Jim Foote, who has been in real estate for 38 years and is broker-owner of Greenwich Custom Real Estate Services in Old Greenwich, Conn. “If they linger for a long time in any one room, that’s telling you that there is something about this room that’s especially interesting to them.”
“比方说，这就能透露出一些信息，”吉姆·富特(Jim Foote)在地产领域已经做了38年，是康涅狄格州老格林威治区(Old Greenwich)一家地产公司Greenwich Custom Real Estate Services的经纪人。他说，“如果他们在某个房间里待了很久，那就说明，这个房间有特别吸引他们的地方。”
Conversely, a speed-through is often a sign of lack of interest. Mr. Foote has a current listing of a four-bedroom ranch house in Old Greenwich, on the market for $1.625 million. “If the progress from the hall through the living room, where the first fireplace is, through the dining room to the kitchen, through the family room where the second fireplace is — if that circuit takes two to three minutes, that’s pretty good,” Mr. Foote said. “If it takes 30 or 45 seconds, that’s not so good.”
相反，如果客户只是走马观花地看了看，那就说明他们对这处房子没什么兴趣。富特在老格林威治区有一套四居室农场的房源，市价为162.5万美元（约合人民币995.48万元）。“进门之后就是大厅，然后是起居室，第一个壁炉就在那里；转完起居室，穿过餐厅就到了厨房，紧挨着厨房的是家庭娱乐室，那里有第二个壁炉——如果这一圈看下来，花了两、三分钟时间，那就相当有戏，”富特说，“而如果整个过程只花了30或45秒，那就不大乐观了。”
Of course, agents who admit to “reading” their clients insist their pattern recognition is in service of the greater good. Even (or especially) in these days of consumer online access, some of an agent’s value lies in her being able to offer a buyer a choice different from his preconception.
当然，那些坦言自己会“读心”的经纪人也坚称，自己之所以这样察言观色，是为了客户利益着想。甚至（或者说尤其）在这个消费者能上网的年代，经纪人的部分价值就取决于，她能否为客户提供意料之外的选择。
“Often people don’t know what they want,” said Fritzi Barbour, vice president and broker in charge of Coldwell Banker Caine in Greenville, S.C. “They don’t know what their options are, they don’t know the neighborhoods. The ability to know those other options is the value that an agent brings. You may think you want X, but if you’re shown Y, you may love Y better than you ever loved X.”
“人们往往不知道自己想要什么，”南卡罗来纳州格林威尔市(Greenville)的地产公司Coldwell Banker Caine的副总裁兼经纪人弗丽茨·巴伯尔(Fritzi Barbour)表示，“他们不了解自己选的房子，也不了解房子所在的小区。经纪人的价值就在于，他们了解还有哪些适合客户的房源选项。你可能以为自己想要X，结果看了Y之后才发现，Y其实更合你的意。”
Which leads to one of the common broker routines: juggling the order of properties in a day of showing. Ms. Barbour, who has 30 years’ experience, and others interviewed agreed that they often placed their recommended properties at the beginning and the end of a day’s schedule.
这里就要提到经纪人的一个惯用伎俩：在一整天的看房过程中，在参观顺序上做文章。从业30年的巴伯尔及其他受访者坦言，他们会把自己推荐的房源排在一天看房行程的第一站或最后一站。
Lisa Ritter, who is the owner of Re/Max Results, based in Omaha, said: “I don’t think of it as a psychological game. If I think a home is a good value and a nice fit, I’m just placing it where it will stand out.”
丽莎·里特尔(Lisa Ritter)是奥马哈市(Omaha)地产公司Re/Max Results的经纪人，她说，“我不认为这是在玩心理游戏。如果我觉得手里有套房子很好，而且很适合客户，我就会把它排在突出的位置，仅此而已。”
According to Dr. Sheena Iyengar, a professor of management and director of the global leadership program at Columbia and the author of “The Art of Choosing” (Twelve, 2010), to show one’s favorites first and last is to call up the “primary and recency effects.” The first property, she says, serves as a mental benchmark — everything seen subsequently is compared with it — while the last property, having just been viewed, is easier to recall.
希娜·连格(Sheena Iyengar)是哥伦比亚商学院管理学教授，以及“全球领导力计划”(the global leadership program)总监，著有《选择的艺术》(The Art of Choosing)（Twelve出版社，2010年出版）一书。据她说，把最想推荐的房源放在第一个或最后一个介绍，是利用了“首因效应和近因效应”。她说，第一个介绍的房源树立了一个心理标杆——之后介绍的都会与之形成对比；而最后一个房源，因为时隔不久，很容易被回想起来。
(For what it’s worth, brokers, Dr. Iyengar advocates making a slight adjustment to the lineup, saying in an interview: “If you want to optimize showing a particular property, make it next to last. But the important point is to show them the properties that you want to impress on them, at the points when they have energy.”)
（连格还提了个建议，各位经纪人不妨参考。在接受采访时，连格表示，可以对看房次序做一个微调，“如果你想尽量美化某个房源的展示效果，可以把它留在倒数第二个来介绍。但有一点很重要，就算是把好戏留在后头，也得趁客户还有精力的时候这么做。”）
Yet agents insist that they are not being tricky, for two reasons. First, a home is a well-considered long-term purchase, and with prices so high, buyers are more thoughtful than ever. “You can’t just manipulate a buyer into buying something that you want them to buy if it doesn’t meet their needs,” Ms. Barbour said.
不过，经纪人坚称他们并不是在耍花招，原因有两点。首先，买房是一项需要深思熟虑的长期投资，现在的房价这么贵，买家更是前所未有地慎重。“你不能就这么连哄带骗地让买家买下不符合他们需求的房子，”巴伯尔说。
Second, real estate agents are different from other salespeople in that the veterans have their eye on two transactions: the purchase and the resale. When you try on unflattering pants in a department store, the salesman can be enthusiastic because he’s not thinking about having to sell the bell-bottoms again a few years later.
第二，房地产经纪人有一点跟其他销售人员不一样，那就是，但凡有经验的经纪人都会同时着眼于两笔交易：购买及再售。你在百货商店里试穿一条裤子时，即使上身效果实难恭维，售货员也还是会使尽浑身解数说好话，因为他只要卖掉这条裤子，就不用考虑几年后再次出售的问题了。
In contrast, Ms. Barbour said, “your agent is trying to find you what you like, but also what will be a good investment, because they have their mind on what will happen when they get the call about being able to resell it 5, 10, 15 years later. What’s this neighborhood going to be like? What’s the market going to be like?” In order to perform that job, which Mrs. Ritter said she considers “a very high calling, because we’re helping out with someone’s new direction,” agents also often analyze customer personality types.
而经纪人在这一点上截然不同，巴伯尔说，“你的经纪人不仅会尽力满足你的喜好，还会着眼于为你寻找明智的投资。因为他们考虑的是，等到5年、10年乃至15年后，你打电话找他们再卖房子的时候，你的房子会是什么样子；那时的小区会是什么样子；房地产市场又会是什么样子。”用里特尔的话说，这是一项“崇高的工作，因为我们在帮助客户寻找新的方向”，为了完成好这项工作，经纪人往往还需要分析客户的性格类型。
“An amiable buyer or seller is more emotionally driven,” said Thai Klam, the broker-owner of Re/Max 360 in the Greater Houston area. “Can I hold social events here? Can I see my family being happy? They want to know how other people felt. An analytical customer wants the past five years’ historical price appreciations. We just try to relate to them on their personality type to build rapport.”
“脾气好的买家或卖家一般偏感性，”大休斯敦地区的地产公司Re/Max 360的经纪人泰·克拉姆(Thai Klam)说，“他们考虑的是：我能不能在这里举办社交活动？我家人能不能住得舒服？他们想知道别人的感受。而分析型的客户想知道的是，房源在过去五年来的升值情况。我们所做的只是投其所好，跟客户搞好关系。”
That language, though, can include misdirects that the speaker isn’t necessarily aware of. Mrs. Ritter, who has 12 years of experience in real estate, said that whatever a customer tells an agent in terms of a time frame, “you have to cut it in half.” If people call her and say that they’re three or four months out from a purchase decision, “what they’re really saying is: ‘I need you to be patient with me. I am cautious, and I am afraid of being ripped off.’ ”
只不过有时候，客户说出来的话具有误导性，他们自己可能都没有意识到这一点。从业12年的里特尔说，只要是涉及到时限的问题，不管客户跟经纪人说的数字是多少，“你都得把它减半。”如果有人打电话跟她说，他们还要考虑3、4个月才会决定是否买房，“他们的言外之意其实是：‘我希望你能耐心一点。我很小心，怕上当。’”
What may surprise participants in the real estate market is that their agents often empathize with them. “When I go to buy a new car, I go into it with a bitter mind-set, since I don’t trust car salesmen,” Mrs. Ritter said. “So it offers me a healthy perspective on how my customers feel. I don’t take it personally when they don’t trust me right off the bat.”
有一件事或许会让地产交易的参与者们感到意外，那就是他们的经纪人往往是同情他们的。“我去买新车的时候，都是做好最坏打算的，因为我不相信售车员，”里特尔说，“所以我能理解我的客户是怎么想的。要是他们一开始时不信任我，我不会放在心上。”
In fact, sometimes agents recognize that not everyone has their same experience at reading signals. Roger Dawson, author of “Secrets of Power Negotiating” (Career Press, 1996) and a former real estate executive, said he would often tell clients, “Let me just take this phone call,” as an excuse to give them a moment alone.
事实上，有时候经纪人会意识到，并不是每个人都像他们那样善于察言观色。《优势谈判》(Secrets of Power Negotiating)（Career Press出版社，1996年出版）的作者、前房企高管罗杰·道森(Roger Dawson)表示，他常常跟客户说，“失陪一下，我去接个电话”，以便让他们有时间独处。
“I have found it helpful to let the husband and wife have a little time together to discuss things,” Mr. Dawson said. “Often they’re not reading each other very well.”
“我发现，让夫妻俩独处一会儿、商量一下比较好，”道森表示，“他们往往都没怎么领会对方的心思。”