You wonder how fashion designers keep up: fall, spring, resort, cruise, couture, pre-fall. All this while trying to navigate the shifting sands of the industry. Soon designers may be tasked with creating yet another collection — for Bitmoji. Some already are.
你是否很想知道时装设计师们是如何保持自己的节奏的：秋装、春装、度假装、航游装、高级定制时装和早秋装。除这些之外，还要努力适应时装业不断变化的情况。很快，设计师们可能还要为Bitmoji创立一个新系列。而有些设计师已经开始了。
Last fall, the popular app, which allows users to create a personalized emoji avatar, introduced runway looks to its virtual closet. Labels whose clothes were made available free through partnerships with Bergdorf Goodman and W magazine included Michael Kors, Zac Posen, Alexander McQueen, Calvin Klein and Diane von Furstenberg. Women can buy a wrap dress and outfit their pixilated selves in the same one.
这个热门应用程序允许用户制作自己的个人化身表情符号。去年秋天，该应用程序在自己的虚拟衣橱里推出了秀台造型。有些品牌通过与波道夫·古德曼(Bergdorf Goodman)和《W》杂志的合作，在该应用程序上提供免费虚拟服装，比如Michael Kors、Zac Posen、Alexander McQueen、Calvin Klein和Diane von Furstenberg。女人们可以买一条裹身裙，然后给自己的虚拟化身也穿上同一条裙子。
It was great news for Bitmoji fans, who were long stuck with basic T-shirts and drab monochrome dresses. Now their avatar can step out (on a runway, even) in a fur-trimmed parka paired with a miniskirt by Rodarte, even if they couldn’t afford the ensemble in real life.
对Bitmoji的粉丝们来说，这真是个大好的消息。很久以来，他们的虚拟小人天天穿着基本款T恤衫或乏味的单色连衣裙。现在，他们的小人可以穿上罗达特(Rodarte)的毛皮大衣搭配超短裙亮相（甚至可以是在秀台上），即便他们在现实生活中买不起这一身。
But what about the designers whose carefully crafted wares were reduced to silly cartoons on a phone screen?
不过，对于自己精心设计的服装变成手机屏幕上傻乎乎的卡通形象，设计师们是怎么看的呢？
Tanya Taylor, a Canadian designer whose vibrant print dresses are available on Bitmoji, said she had initial concerns about appearing too youthful or unserious. But she spoke to intelligent women she knew, many of whom use the app, and decided that Bitmoji is really “a way to express fun and emotion.”
加拿大设计师塔尼娅·泰勒(Tanya Taylor)在Bitmoji上推出了充满活力的印花裙。她说，一开始她担心自己的服装看起来太年轻，不够庄重。但是她跟自己认识的知识女性谈了谈，其中很多人都用这个应用程序。她发现Bitmoji真的是“表达乐趣和情绪的一种方式”。
Ms. Taylor added: “We have had such an incredible reaction and broadened the audience that knows about the brand. It shows we’re taking a risk and being playful.”
泰勒还说：“反响很好，出人意料，也让更多人知道了这个品牌。这表明，我们是在冒险，但我们也从中获得了乐趣。”
Designing for Bitmoji, however, was more complicated than she anticipated. She chose three past looks that exemplified her brand, including a best-selling (in real life) red-and-white knit top. Then she worked with Bitmoji’s programmers to digitize the clothes, a process that took almost three months.
不过，为Bitmoji做设计比她预想的复杂得多。她选择了过去能代表自己品牌的三个造型，包括（在现实生活中）最畅销的红白针织上衣。然后她跟Bitmoji的程序员合作，把这些衣服数字化，这个过程花了差不多三个月时间。
“It honestly felt like we were going through actual fittings,” Ms. Taylor said. “They would send a PDF, and we would draw on the little avatars: ‘Shorten the hem.’”
“真的感觉像是试了很多次衣服，”泰勒说，“他们会发来一个PDF文件，我们会给那些小人画上衣服：‘把那个边儿弄短点。’”
As Bitmoji fans know, the avatars are pictured in hundreds of situations, and the clothes had to look wearable in each one. Ms. Taylor found that miniskirts work best (a lot of the scenarios, like a suggestion of coffee or “mwah” kiss, are not full body images), as do bright, punchy prints.
Bitmoji的粉丝们都知道，那些小人能放在上百个场景中，而这些衣服必须适合每个场景。泰勒发现，超短裙最百搭（因为很多场景都不显示全身，比如提议去喝咖啡或“mua”亲吻的场景），鲜艳简洁的印花适用性也很强。
So what outfits have been most popular on the app so far?
到目前为止，该应用程序上最受欢迎的服装是什么呢？
In Bergdorf’s fashion packet, Rodarte’s fur parka has been a winner, said Mallory Andrews, senior vice president for sales promotion, marketing and public relations for the retailer. “That was interesting and exciting to see” because the label is so fashion forward, she said.
波道夫百货公司的销售推广、市场营销和公共关系高级副总裁马洛里·安德鲁斯(Mallory Andrews)说，在该百货公司的时装数据包里，Rodarte的毛皮大衣最受欢迎。她说，“这很有趣，令人兴奋”，因为这个品牌非常前卫。
But Jacob Blackstock, the founder of Bitmoji, cited a “very, very, very simple gray top” by Joie as one of the most popular pieces over all.
不过，Bitmoji的创始人雅各布·布莱克斯托克(Jacob Blackstock)提到，Joie的一件“非常、非常、非常简单的灰色上衣”是最受欢迎的服装之一。
“It speaks to the idea that for a lot of people, simplicity is their ideal,” he said.
“这表明，对很多人来说，简约就是完美，”他说。
As in real life, there are fewer Bitmoji fashion options for men: flannels, hoodies, T-shirts, a few “black label” suits and, for the edgier guy, a Kenzo lion-print sweater in three available colors.
和在现实生活中一样，男人们在Bitmoji的时装选择比较少：法兰绒衣服、连帽卫衣、T恤，以及几件“黑标”西服，对更前卫的男士来说，还有三种颜色的Kenzo狮子印花毛衣。
Mr. Blackstock wants to expand the men’s offerings, but the limited wardrobe suits some users just fine. Jonathan Adler, the founder of the namesake home design company, is a big fan of the app (“Before Bitmoji, I was living life in black and white,” he said), and dresses his avatar as simply as himself.
布莱克斯托克想扩充男服选择，但有限的衣橱还挺适合部分用户。乔纳森·阿德勒(Jonathan Adler)家居设计公司的同名创始人非常喜欢这个应用程序（他说，“在使用Bitmoji之前，我只穿黑白两色的衣服”），他把自己的虚拟化身打扮得跟自己一样简单。
“I just wear white jeans every day, usually with a blue shirt,” he said. “My Bitmoji used to have white jeans and a blue shirt. It was unmistakably moi.”
“我每天都穿白色牛仔裤，通常搭配蓝衬衫，”他说，“我的Bitmoji以前也是经常穿白色牛仔裤和蓝衬衫，跟我一模一样。”
Around the holidays, Mr. Adler switched to a Hanukkah sweater with a Star of David.
过节的时候，阿德勒会换一件带有一颗大卫星的光明节毛衣。
While some Bitmoji users switch outfits regularly (Ms. Taylor has workweek and weekend ensembles), Mr. Adler suggests men find a look that works and stick with it. And, he added, both sexes should create avatars that reflect (and dress) the way they really are.
有些Bitmoji用户定期更换服装（泰勒在工作日和周末给自己的Bitmoji穿上不同的服装），但是阿德勒建议男人们找到一个合适的造型后，就固定使用它。他补充说，男人和女人都应该创造像自己（和着装方式）的虚拟小人。
“A person’s level of honesty in their character is revealed by their Bitmoji,” he said. “I have a friend who I’ve always felt was slightly narcissistic. Her Bitmoji makes her look like a supermodel. It’s like a personal reckoning, being your avatar.”
“一个人的诚实水平体现在他的Bitmoji上，”他说，“我一直觉得我有个朋友有点自恋。她的Bitmoji看起来就像个超模。一个人的bitmoji反映了他的个人想法。”
It’s that kind of insight into how consumers portray themselves through fashion that could turn Bitmoji into a valuable tool for designers. One can envision them previewing looks on the app, using it as a sales forecaster or even charging a tiny fee for the Bitmoji version of luxury goods that in real life would retail for thousands of dollars.
这种对消费者如何通过服装时尚描绘自己的深刻洞察，能把Bitmoji变成一个对设计师非常有用的工具。你可以想象用户在这个应用程序上预览自己新造型的样子，并把它用作销售预测，甚至可以给现实生活中售价几千美元的奢侈服装的Bitmoji版收点费。
“We have three more outfits in the works,” Ms. Taylor said.
“我们正在制作三套服装，”泰勒说。
Before any of that happens, though, Mr. Blackstock and his team have to catch up. No new runway looks have debuted on the app since last fall, though he promised them soon, now that his programmers (So Busy, as the Bitmoji might say) are “getting into a regular rhythm.”
不过，在那之前，布莱克斯托克和他的团队必须跟上潮流。从去年秋季开始，该应用程序没有再出过新的秀台造型。不过他承诺很快会推出，他的程序员们（就像Bitmoji会说的，太忙了）“已经进入了规律性的节奏”。
It turns out even avatars can’t keep up with the pace of fashion.
结果证明，甚至连Bitmoji小人也跟不上时尚的步伐。