Dr. George Fielding, a pioneer of weight loss surgery in Australia, remembers how patients treated him in the late 1990s, when his weight reached 330 pounds on his six-foot frame. He would meet new patients, dressed in Armani suits and feeling on top of the world, and then be abruptly upended.
乔治·菲尔丁(George Fielding)医生是澳大利亚减重手术的先驱，在20世纪90年代末，身高六英尺（1.83米）的他体重逼近330磅（150公斤），他还记得当时病人对他的态度是怎样的。他去见新病人时身着一身阿玛尼西服，感觉自己站在世界之巅，可是紧接着情况却急转直下。
“They’d say, ‘Mate! You’re sitting there telling me I need it? You need to have your surgery!’ ”
“他们会说，‘老兄，你坐在这儿告诉我需要做这种手术？需要做手术的人是你！’”
Despite being an internationally recognized expert on lap band and gastric bypass surgeries, Dr. Fielding knew that his appearance was dissuading some patients from using his services. And years of yo-yo dieting and extreme exercise hadn’t helped him keep the weight off.
菲尔丁医生虽是蜚声国际的胃束带和胃旁道手术权威，但他知道，自己的外表会让一些本准备做手术的病人打退堂鼓。多年来他一直在尝试悠悠球节食（yo-yo dieting，指通过严格节食迅速减肥，而后又反弹，如此循环往复——译注）和极端严格的锻炼，但体重并未减轻。
“People would come for consultations and say they would do it, and then they didn’t come back,” said Dr. Fielding, who now works at New York University’s Langone Medical Center. “I knew they were probably thinking, ‘Wow, he’s fat! Is he any good?’ ”
“病人会来我这儿咨询，表示愿意做手术，可却没有再来复诊，”菲尔丁说。他目前在纽约大学(New York University)朗格尼医学中心工作。“我知道他们恐怕在想，‘哇，他真胖！这人能行吗？’”
So Dr. Fielding wasn’t at all surprised by the results of a recent study in the International Journal of Obesity showing that patients secretly — or not so secretly — look with disdain on doctors who are overweight or obese. Just as overweight people are stigmatized in an array of professional and personal settings, overweight doctors are seen as less credible than “normal weight” doctors, and patients are less likely to follow their medical advice, the study found.
所以，菲尔丁医生在看到最近刊载于《国际肥胖症杂志》(International Journal of Obesity)的研究结果时，丝毫不惊讶。研究显示，病人对超重或肥胖的医生，会不露声色或未经掩饰地表示轻视。这份研究发现，超重人群在各种职业和私下的场合中，会被污名化，超重的医生也不例外，相比“体重正常”的医生，病人会觉得胖医生靠不住，也不大遵守他们的医嘱。
The study’s stinging conclusions resonated, too, with Dr. Deep Ramachandran, a pulmonary critical care and sleep doctor at Genesys Regional Medical Center in Grand Blanc, Mich. After administering tests exploring his patients’ breathing irregularities, he often has to tell them a blunt truth: they need to lose weight.
这项研究刺痛人心的结论也让迪普·拉马钱德兰(Deep Ramachandran)医生产生了共鸣，他是密歇根州格兰布朗市杰纳西地区医疗中心(Genesys Regional Medical Center)的呼吸科重症监护及睡眠专业医生。在给病人做各种检查，查明呼吸紊乱的原因后，他往往得被迫告诉对方一个冷冰冰的事实：他们需要减重。
That can be a particularly tough message for this messenger to deliver. Dr. Ramachandran, 42, says he has a body mass index of 38 and should lose at least 60 pounds.
由他这位信使来传递信息，显得尤为艰难。42岁的拉马钱德兰医生说，他的身体质量指数(body mass index)为38，需要减去至少60磅（27公斤）体重。
“It’s easy for doctors to assume that once we put on the white coat, patients will listen to what we say,” he said. “But this study says the white coat doesn’t protect you. You have to own your problems and communicate with patients in ways they can understand.”
他说：“医生们会轻易猜想，一旦穿上了白大褂，病人就一定会听从我们的意见。但这项研究说，白大褂并不是保护伞。你必须要对自己的问题拥有掌控力，并能以病人理解的方式和他们沟通。”
So he often tells patients that he, too, struggles with weight loss and knows how hard it is.
所以，他常常跟患者们说，他本人也在努力减重，他清楚要成功减重有多困难。
“How do we deliver a message that may be seen as hypocritical? I don’t know the answer,” Dr. Ramachandran said. “But doctors are human beings first and scientists second. We are subject to the same maladies as the rest of society. It’s an incredibly difficult problem, and a challenge.”
拉马钱德兰说：“我们如何能传递出一个在外人看来或许十分伪善的讯息？答案我并不清楚。但医生首先是人，其次才是科学家。我们跟社会其余人员一样，会经受同样的疾病侵袭。它是个无比艰巨的问题，也是一大挑战。”
The bias against overweight people is so socially accepted, said Dr. Rebecca M. Puhl, the lead author of the study and the director of research and weight stigma initiatives at Yale University’s Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity, that “despite all the doctor’s training and expertise, it can jeopardize the doctor’s ability to have a conversation about health care with the patient.”
这项研究的第一作者丽贝卡·M·普勒(Rebecca M. Puhl)在耶鲁大学(Yale University)研究食品政策与肥胖的儒德中心(Rudd Center)供职，是有关体重污名化研究的负责人，她说，对超重人群的偏见已经被社会广为接受，这就导致“医生虽然受过专业训练，拥有专业技能，但在医生与病人讨论卫生保健议题时，其能力仍会遭到本人身型的影响”。
Patients seem to hold doctors to a stricter standard: “If you’re a health professional, people think you shouldn’t be struggling with weight,” said Dr. Puhl, who is a clinical psychologist and has conducted extensive research into weight stigma.
病人貌似给医生设定了一个更为严苛的标准，“如果你是健康专业人士，人们就认为你不应有体重方面的问题，”普勒医生说。她本人是临床心理医生，在体重污名化这个问题上做过大量研究。
For the study, the Yale researchers randomly assigned 358 participants — about 57 percent female and 70 percent Caucasian, with an average age of 37 — to complete one of three online surveys about a hypothetical doctor, responding to questions like whether they would choose the doctor as a provider, follow the doctor’s advice about exercise and losing weight, or consider the doctor credible and trustworthy. The only difference among the versions — indeed, the only identifying characteristic about the gender-neutral doctor — was whether the doctor was “normal weight,” “overweight” or “obese.”
在这项研究中，耶鲁的研究人员随机安排358名参试者——其中约57%为女性，70%为白种人，平均年龄37岁——完成三项在线调查中的一项，调查围绕一位假想的医生展开，问题包括他们是否会选择请这位医生担任自己的主治医生，是否会遵从他有关锻炼和减肥的建议，是否认为这个医生靠谱可信。三项调查唯一的区别在于，这名医生的形象分别是“正常体重”、“超重”或“肥胖”，而这也是该性别色彩为中性的医生唯一可辨别的特征。
The researchers also included a widely used “fat phobia” list of 14 pairs of adjectives that ranks the respondent’s perceptions on a scale. Typical pairs include “lazy/industrious,” “good self-control/no self-control” and “attractive/unattractive.”
研究人员还使用了一个广泛被使用的“恐胖症”量表，用来测量受试者对体重的感知，列表包括了14对形容词，譬如“懒惰/勤勉”、“自制力强/缺乏自制力”和“有魅力/没有魅力”。
Those who answered the surveys about doctors described as overweight or obese were significantly more likely to change providers than those with doctors described as being of normal weight, regardless of the weight of the patient. The higher respondents’ fat phobia scores, the more likely they were to place their trust in a physician of “normal weight.”
分到超重或肥胖医生组的受试者，相比分到正常体重医生组的人，更换主治医生的可能性大为提升，而他们对医生的态度跟本人的体重并无关系。而在“恐胖症”测试量表中的得分越高，他们就越可能信任一位“正常体重”的医生。
Dr. Fielding, the Australian bariatric surgeon, knows firsthand the change in attitudes that can occur in patients and colleagues when they deal with doctors of different weights. Since having lap band surgery 13 years ago, at age 43, he has maintained his weight at 210 pounds, following a regimen of regular, moderate exercise and 800 calories a day. “I was treated completely differently by patients and doctors,” he said. “They weren’t distracted by the fact that I was fat.”
对于病人和同事遇到不同体型医生的态度会有多大的改变，澳大利亚减重手术外科医生菲尔丁有着第一手的认识。13年前，43岁的他接受了胃束带手术，此后他一直坚持从事适度锻炼，每天进食的热量控制在800大卡内，他的体重因此保持在了210磅（95公斤）。他说：“手术后，病人和其他医生对我的态度迥异。他们不会因为我太胖而分心了。”
He acknowledged that the respect now automatically conferred on him sometimes ignited an ancient flicker of resentment. “I’m the same guy, still George,” he said.
他承认，外人自然而然给予他的尊重有时会点燃他心中愤怒的火苗。“我还是原来的那个我，还是乔治啊，”他说。