Having watched all the debates and seen all these people running for president, I can’t suppress the thought: Why would anyone want this job now? Do you people realize what’s going on out there? Obama’s hair hasn’t gone early gray for nothing. I mean, Air Force One is great and all, but it now comes with Afghanistan, ISIS and the Republican Freedom Caucus — not to mention a lot of people, places and things all coming unstuck at once.
在看到各种辩论和这许多竞选总统的人后，我不禁想问：为什么现在还有人想干这份工作？你们意识到世界上发生什么事情了吗？奥巴马的头发开始花白不是没有原因的。我的意思是，空军一号确实很棒，但总统现在要面对阿富汗、ISIS、共和党自由党团(Republican Freedom Caucus)这些难题——更不用说很多人、很多地方、很多事情同时都开始垮掉。
Consider the scariest news article this year. On Friday, The Washington Post reported that “the Justice Department has charged a hacker in Malaysia with stealing the personal data of U.S. service members and passing it to the Islamic State terrorist group, which urged supporters online to attack them.” The article explained that, in June, Ardit Ferizi, the leader of a group of ethnic Albanian hackers from Kosovo who call themselves Kosova Hackers Security, “hacked into a server used by a U.S. online retail company” and “obtained data on about 100,000 people.”
想想今年最可怕的新闻吧。上周五，《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)报道称，“司法部指控一名马来西亚黑客窃取美国军人的个人数据，并将其发给ISIS恐怖组织，ISIS号召其网上支持者对这些军人发起攻击。”文章解释说，今年6月，阿迪特·弗里兹(Ardit Ferizi)“侵入一家美国在线零售公司使用的服务器”，“获得了约10万人的数据”。弗里兹是一个科索沃阿尔巴尼亚族裔黑客团队的头目，该团队自称“科索沃黑客安全组织”(Kosova Hackers Security)。
Ferizi, it said, “is accused of passing the data to Islamic State member Junaid Hussain, a British citizen who in August posted links on Twitter to the names, email addresses, passwords, locations and phone numbers of 1,351 U.S. military and other government personnel. He included a warning that Islamic State ‘soldiers ... will strike at your necks in your own lands!’” F.B.I. agents tracked Ferizi “to a computer with an Internet address in Malaysia,” where he was arrested. Meanwhile, Hussain was killed by a U.S. drone in Syria.
文章说，弗里兹“被控将数据发送给ISIS成员朱奈德·侯赛因(Junaid Hussain)。侯赛因是英国公民，今年8月在Twitter上发布了一些链接资料，其中包括1351名美国军人和其他政府工作人员的姓名、电邮地址、密码、位置和电话号码。他还警告说，ISIS“战士……会在你们自己的土地上，取了你们的头颅！”FBI特工跟踪弗里兹“来到一台网络地址位于马来西亚的计算机”，那里的警方抓获了他。与此同时，侯赛因也在叙利亚被一架美军无人机击中身亡。
Wow: An Albanian hacker in Malaysia collaborating with an ISIS jihadist on Twitter to intimidate U.S. soldiers online — before we killed the jihadist with a drone!
天呐：一名身在马来西亚的阿尔巴尼亚黑客，在Twitter上与ISIS圣战者合作，在网上恐吓美军士兵——然后我们用无人机打死了那个圣战者！
Welcome to the future of warfare: superpowers versus superempowered angry men — and a tag-team of cybercriminals and cyberterrorists. They’re all a byproduct of a profound technology-driven inflection point that will greet the next president and will make the current debates look laughably obsolete in four years.
欢迎到未来战争：超级大国对阵超能怒汉——以及一个网络罪犯和网络恐怖分子团队。这是一个技术驱动拐点的副产品，下一任总统就将面对这个拐点，在未来四年，它会让如今的辩论看起来像是可笑的老黄历。
I was born into the Cold War era. It was a dangerous time with two nuclear-armed superpowers each holding a gun to the other’s head, and the doctrine of “mutually assured destruction” kept both in check. But we now know that the dictators that both America and Russia propped up in the Middle East and Africa suppressed volcanic sectarian conflicts.
我出生于冷战时代的开端。那是一个危险的时期，两个拥有核武器的超级大国用枪指着对方的头，“共同毁灭原则”让双方都无法轻举妄动。但我们现在知道了，美国和俄罗斯在中东和非洲扶植的独裁者压制了宗派冲突的火山。
The first decades of the post-Cold War era were also a time of relative stability. Dictators in Eastern Europe and Latin America gave way to democratically elected governments and free markets. Boris Yeltsin of Russia never challenged NATO expansion, and the Internet and global supply chains drove profitability up and the cost of labor and goods down. Interest rates were low, and although the income of men without college degrees declined, it was masked by rising home prices, subprime mortgages, easy credit, falling taxes and women joining the work force, so many household incomes continued to rise.
冷战结束后的第一个十年，也是相对稳定的时期。东欧和拉丁美洲的独裁统治让位给民选政府和自由市场。在俄罗斯，鲍里斯·叶利钦(Boris Yeltsin)从未质疑过北约的东扩，而互联网和全球供应链推动了公司盈利能力的上升，劳动力及商品成本的下降。利率保持在低位，尽管没有大学学位的男人收入有所下降，但由于房价上涨、次级抵押贷款出现、信贷宽松、税收下降和女性加入劳动大军，很多家庭的收入在持续增长。
“Up until the year 2000, over 95 percent of the next generation were better off than the previous generation,” said Richard Dobbs, a director of the McKinsey Global Institute. Therefore, even though the rich were getting even richer than those down the income ladder “it did not lead to political unrest because the middle was moving ahead, too” and were sure to be richer than their parents.
“直到2000年，年轻一代95%以上的人都比上一代过得好，”麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)主任理查德·多布斯(Richard Dobbs)说。因此，即使与中低阶层相比，富人变得越来越富，“也没有导致政治动荡，因为中间阶层也在上升，”而且他们坚信会比父母一代更加富有。
But, in the last decade, we entered the post-post-Cold War era. The combination of technological, economic and climate pressures is literally blowing the lid off nation-states in the Middle East and Africa, unleashing sectarian conflicts that no dictator can suppress. Bad guys are getting superempowered and “mutually assured destruction” to ISIS is not a deterrent but an invitation to heaven. Robots are milking cows and IBM’s Watson computer can beat you at “Jeopardy!” and your doctor at radiology, so every decent job requires more technical and social skills — and continuous learning. In the West, a smaller number of young people, with billions in college tuition debts, will have to pay the Medicare and Social Security for the baby boomers now retiring, who will be living longer.
但在过去十年，我们进入了后后冷战时期。技术、经济及气候压力确实暴露了中东及非洲的问题，引发了独裁者无法压制的宗派冲突。坏人被赋予超能，对ISIS来说，“共同毁灭原则”不是一种威慑，而是打开了通向天堂的大门。机器人为奶牛挤奶，IBM的电脑沃森(Watson)在《危险边缘》(Jeopardy)知识竞赛栏目中获胜，还打败了你的放射科医生，因此，每一份体面的工作都需要更多的技术及社会技能——以及不断的学习。在西方，少量年轻人将需要为现在已经退休的婴儿潮一代人支付医疗保险及社会保障费用，他们将活得更久，而这些年轻人背负了数十亿美元的大学学费债务。
“Suddenly,” argues Dobbs, “the number of people who don’t believe they will be better off than their parents goes from zero to 25 percent or more.”
“突然间，”多布斯说，“认为自己不会比父母富有的人的比例，从零增长到了25%或更多。”
When you are advancing, you buy the system; you don’t care who’s a billionaire, because your life is improving. But when you stop advancing, added Dobbs, you can “lose faith in the system — whether that be globalization, free trade, offshoring, immigration, traditional Republicans or traditional Democrats. Because in one way or another they can be perceived as not working for you.”
当你在向前发展时，你会相信这个体制；你不在乎谁是亿万富翁，因为你的生活水平在不断改善。但多布斯又说，当你停止前进，你就会“对这个系统失去信心——无论是全球化、自由贸易、离岸外包、移民，还是传统的共和党人或传统的民主党人。因为它们总会通过某种方式让你觉得，它们对你是不利的”。
And that is why Donald Trump is resonating in America, Marine Le Pen in France, the ISIS caliph in the Arab world, and Vladimir Putin in Russia. They all promise to bring back the certainties and prosperity of the Cold War or post-Cold War eras — by sacking the traditional elites who got us here and by building walls against change and against the superempowered angry men. They are all false prophets, but the storm they promise to hold back is very real.
这就是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在美国、马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)在法国、ISIS哈里发在阿拉伯世界、弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)在俄罗斯引发共鸣的原因。他们都承诺，把让我们沦落到今天这步田地的传统精英推翻，建造抵御变化、抵御超能怒汉的屏障，这样就能恢复冷战或后冷战时期的确定性及繁荣。他们都是假先知，但他们承诺要阻挡的风暴是真实存在的。