Few know exactly what to call the collection of Americana that fills Steven Burke and Randy Campbell’s Greek Revival compound.
在史蒂芬·伯克(Steven Burke)和兰迪·坎贝尔(Randy Campbell)的希腊复古式住宅中，到处都是他们收藏的美国工艺品(Americana)。很少有人知道该怎么称呼它们。
Mr. Burke, 66, prefers the term American folk art buildings. Those less enamored of the form have been known to refer to the little structures derisively as hobby art.
现年66岁的伯克喜欢称其为“美国民间工艺建筑”(American folk art building)。而那些对这类艺术形式不那么着迷的人，有时会嘲笑它们是“业余艺术”(hobby art)。
“Neither common nor rare, they have never taken shape as a category of American artifact,” Mr. Burke conceded.
“它们既不常见，也不稀有，从没在美国的手工艺品中形成一个门类。”伯克坦言道。
Whatever your view of their intrinsic value (or lack thereof), it’s hard not to have an emotional reaction when confronted with the 1,200 or so small buildings on display here: the little churches with their soaring steeples, the quaint storefronts, the homespun bowling alleys, Art Deco theaters, Ferris wheels and farmhouses, all of them handmade and many dating to the late 19th century.
不管你怎么看待它们的内在价值（或者认为它们缺乏价值），面对这里所展示的1200来座小建筑，你的情绪很难不受触动。其中有带高耸尖塔的小教堂、古色古香的店面、朴素无华的保龄球场、装饰艺术风格(Art Deco)的剧院，还有摩天轮和农舍。所有的小建筑都是手工制成，其中许多作品的年代可以追溯到19世纪末。
“Everybody likes this stuff,” Mr. Burke said.
“人人都喜欢这种小玩意。”伯克说。
Some are expertly done, others crudely executed out of repurposed materials like old food tins or uncooked macaroni. Some are meticulous replicas of national monuments; others are creative renderings of familiar building types, like the drugstore whose signage reads “Prescriptions Carefully Confounded.”
有些作品的技艺纯熟；有些则粗粗而就，选料也是像旧食品罐或生通心粉这类再利用的材料。有些是国家历史遗迹的精巧复制品；有些则是对人们熟悉的建筑类型，进行了创造性的发挥，比如在一家药店的标牌上写着“精心‘乱配’的药方”。
Anne-Imelda Radice, executive director of the American Folk Art Museum in Manhattan, said she “flipped” when she first saw the collection, in the book "American Folk Art Buildings,” which Mr. Burke self-published last year.
安妮-伊梅尔达·雷迪斯(Anne-Imelda Radice)是坐落于曼哈顿的美国民间艺术博物馆(American Folk Art Museum)的负责人，她说自己第一次在伯克去年自费出版的《美国民间艺术建筑》(American Folk Art Buildings)上看到那些收藏品的时候，马上就“着迷了”。
“It’s like the history of American architecture,” she said, adding that she hopes one day the collection will be exhibited publicly. “People will go crazy over it.”
“它就像活生生的美国建筑史，”她说，同时表示，她希望这些收藏品有朝一日能够公开展出。“人们会为之疯狂的。”
Oddly enough, it is easier to explain what the collection isn’t than what it is.
说来也怪，在为这些藏品定性的时候，界定它们不是什么，反而比界定它们是什么更简单。
There are no dollhouses, birdhouses or architectural models here. All of these structures are purely decorative.
那当中没有玩偶屋、鸟舍或是建筑模型。所有作品都是纯粹的装饰品。
And while you may see a Bauhaus-style residence or a California bungalow, you won’t find any log cabins or outhouses. Both are banned for aesthetic reasons.
你可能会见到包豪斯风格的住宅，或者加利福尼亚式的平房，但你一栋小木屋或茅房都看不到。出于美学原因，这两种建筑类型都不在收藏品之列。
Some of the structures may have been built to go with toy train sets, Mr. Burke said, and a few were handmade copies of a mass-produced Lionel building that sold for $3.50 in the 1930s.
伯克说，有些建筑可能是用来搭配玩具火车的，其中一部分是莱昂内尔（Lionel，一家模型玩具公司——译注）20世纪30年代大规模生产的一款3.5美元（约合人民币21元）建筑玩具的手工翻版。
But for the vast majority of the collection, there is no record of provenance or anything else – including who made it and when. And there isn’t much information out there on why Americans were impelled to build these little structures, Mr. Burke said. In his book, he speculates based on what little evidence he’s been able to glean that most of the builders were probably male, middle-aged or older, and concentrated on the East Coast and in the Midwest, particularly in states with a history of fine craftsmanship, like Ohio and Pennsylvania.
不过，伯克说，绝大多数藏品都没有任何关于出处等背景信息的记录——包括作者的身份和创作时间，也是未知的。此外，也没有多少资料能告诉我们，美国人为何会制作出这些小建筑。在自己的书中，伯克根据自己所能找到的一星半点证据推测，大多数创作者很可能都是中老年男性，他们集中在东海岸和中西部地区，尤其是在历史上工艺水平精湛的地区，比如俄亥俄州和宾夕法尼亚州。
The lack of documentation may explain why this sort of folk art has failed to capture the imagination of collectors, unlike other forms — rare weather vanes, for example, or store signage — that can fetch huge sums at auction. One upside, though, is that collecting it has been relatively easy. Mr. Burke said he picked up some of the modest buildings for less than $5 each and has spent several thousand dollars, at the most, for a particularly distinctive structure. On average, “they were in the $500 range,” he said.
缺少文献记载的情况，或许就解释了这种民间艺术形式为何无法吸引收藏家的注意了。这与那些能在拍卖会上拍出天价的其他藏品截然不同，比如稀有的风向标或店标。不过这样也有一个好处，那就是这种物品收藏起来相对容易。伯克说，他买到的一些价格最低的小建筑，每个还不到5美元（约合人民币31元）。而价格最高的是一座格外别致的小建筑，花了他几千美元。平均来说，“它们是在500美元（约合人民币3060元）的价位吧。”他说。
“I bought hundreds on eBay and never had one person bidding against me,” he said, exaggerating slightly. “It’s inexplicable.”
“我在eBay上买了好几百个，从来没人跟我抢，”他略带夸张地说，“简直不可理喻。”
The collection started innocently enough almost three decades ago, when Mr. Burke spotted his first folk art house and spent nearly all of a $183 tax refund check on it. But then, he said, “a little dormant switch turned on in me.” The buildings reminded him of his childhood in 1950s London, when his father was an attaché to the American embassy and Mr. Burke liked to set up trains and little villages on the big Persian rugs in his family’s home.
这桩收藏兴趣，是一次机缘巧合下发展出来的。那是将近30年前的事了。当时伯克发现了他的第一座民间工艺房子，他几乎把183美元（约合人民币1121元）的退税支票全部花在了这件工艺品上。不过接下来，他说，“我心里有个隐藏着的小开关被开启了。”这些小建筑让他想起了20世纪50年代在伦敦度过的童年时光。那时他的父亲是美国使馆的专员，小伯克喜欢在家里的波斯大地毯上布置玩具火车和小村庄。
Fortunately, his partner, whom he met through friends 31 years ago, is similarly wired. “I like the fair rides and the Ferris wheels,” said Mr. Campbell, 65, an accountant in the biology department at the University of North Carolina. (He also collects 1930s vases and Art Deco Christmas stars.)
幸运的是，他在31年前通过朋友认识的伴侣坎贝尔，也有类似的喜好。“我喜欢那些旋转木马和摩天轮。”坎贝尔说。他现年65岁，在北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)生物系担任会计师（他也收集20世纪30年代的花瓶和装饰艺术风格的圣诞星）。
To accommodate their growing collection, the men have added two outbuildings and last summer completed an addition to the main house, all of which Mr. Burke designed, although he is not a trained architect (he recently retired from years of working in the biotechnology industry).
为了给日益壮大的藏品找到安身之所，两人已经增建了两座外屋，去年夏天还扩建了主屋。扩建部分都是伯克设计的，只不过他并不是一个专业的设计师（他多年来投身生物工艺学领域，最近刚刚退休）。
Their domestic divide, they told a visitor, is simple: Mr. Campbell cares for anything colorful or green that grows; Mr. Burke tends the buildings, both small and large.
他曾同一位访客说，他们的内部分工十分简单：坎贝尔打理那些在生长的彩色或绿色植物；伯克则处理建筑方面的事务，不管是大建筑还是小建筑。
“The psychosis is mostly mine,” he said.
“我的收藏癖已经无可救药了。”他说。
Step into their 3,000-square-foot main house, and the eye candy is overwhelming. After a while, the details come into focus: the tiny signage, the ingeniously repurposed found materials. A replica of Thomas Alva Edison’s childhood home in Milan, Ohio, is sheathed in postage stamps of gold, red, blue and green, but it looks from a distance as if it is covered in elaborate brickwork.
走进他们3000平方英尺（约合279平方米）的主屋，眼前的壮观景象令人叹为观止。待上一会儿，各类细节就开始成为关注的焦点，比如小巧的标牌、化腐朽为神奇的材料利用。有一件作品，是从托马斯·阿尔瓦·爱迪生(Thomas Alva Edison)在俄亥俄州米兰的儿时故居仿制而来的，它的“墙面”由金色、红色、蓝色和绿色的邮票拼贴而成，但是从远处看，它就像一片繁复精巧的砖砌结构。
Catherine Sweeney Singer, executive director of the New York and Philadelphia Winter Antiques Shows, is an old friend and a frequent guest. “Whenever I think of their collection,” she said, “it tugs at my younger self.”
纽约及费城冬季古董展(the New York and Philadelphia Winter Antiques Shows)的负责人凯瑟琳·斯维尼·辛格(Catherine Sweeney Singer)，是他们的老朋友和常客。“每次想到他们的收藏品，”她说，“我就会感觉自己像是回到了小时候。”
Ms. Singer finds it both puzzling and intriguing that so many of these little buildings “got separated from their stories,” she said. “That’s probably why they aren’t collected.”
让辛格觉得既困惑又稀奇的是，在这些小建筑当中，有很多作品都“与它们背后的故事割裂了”，她说，“或许正因如此，它们才没有被收藏家相中。”
Still, she added, “If they’ve found a thousand fine examples, then the practice was fairly widespread.”
尽管如此，她补充道，“既然他们已经找到了一千多件优秀作品，那就说明这种创作活动是比较普遍的。”
Of course, Mr. Burke and Mr. Campbell already know that. And they are doing their best to reconstruct the histories, searching genealogical records and old newspaper clippings in what Mr. Burke describes as “curatorial reckoning.” At best, the results have been mixed.
当然，伯克和坎贝尔对此早已心知肚明。而且他们正在竭尽全力重构历史，搜寻家谱记录和旧剪报。用伯克的话说，就是做一些“文献工作”。而这样做的收获，顶多算是有得有失吧。