The pet hairs and red wine stains on sofas across America, it turns out, should be the least of our concerns. The real issue is what is in the foam cushions we curl up on every day: up to two pounds of flame retardants.
在美国各地的家庭里，沙发上粘的宠物毛或红酒渍，其实都是最不足为虑的小事。真正要紧的，是我们每天蜷缩其中的软垫里包含的物质：里面有重达2磅（约合907克）的阻燃剂。
In their HBO documentary “Toxic Hot Seat,” scheduled to be aired on Monday, the directors James Redford and Kirby Walker disclose that these chemicals, as used in home furnishings, do not stop fires. They do, however, whoosh out of seat cushions when we plop down, hitching a ride on airborne dust and ending up in our bodies. They have been linked to cancer and other health disorders.
在将于周一播出的HBO纪录片《让人如坐针毡的毒座椅》(Toxic Hot Seat)中，导演詹姆斯·雷德福(James Redford)和柯比·沃克(Kirby Walker)披露了，住宅家具中使用的化学物质并不能阻燃；反倒是，当我们一屁股坐到座垫上时，它们喷出的化学物质会随着空气中的粉尘进入我们体内，并滞留下来。这些化学物质已被证实会导致癌症和其它健康问题。
The film explores how a 1975 California law requiring retardants (Technical Bulletin 117) became widely adopted. And it follows the firefighters, scientists, health advocates, state legislators and investigative journalists who brought attention to the chemicals, leading to a recent reform of the California mandate — which the directors, who spoke from their homes in the San Francisco area, applaud. (This interview has been edited and condensed.)
本片展现了加利福尼亚州在1975年通过的一部要求使用阻燃剂的法律（第117号技术公示[Technical Bulletin 117]，简称TB 117——译注），是如何得以广泛推行的，并跟踪采访了消防员、科学家、健康倡导者、州议员、调查记者——这些人使化学物质的危害进入了公众视野，从而促使加州在近日改革了阻燃剂标准（以下访谈内容经过编辑和删节）。
Q. After watching your documentary, I looked around at my own sofa and felt a little panicky. Should Americans be afraid of their furnishings?
问：看了你们的纪录片以后，我绕着自己的沙发看了看，感觉有点恐慌。美国人现在应该担心自己的家具有问题吗？
A. Mr. Redford: Well, I think you’ve got to look at it with a new set of eyes. Any upholstered furniture in your home, unless it’s 40 years or older, is going to have these flame retardants in the polyurethane foam, which is what most upholstered furniture is made of. What we do have, moving forward, is the ability to stop buying furniture that has these chemicals in it.
答：雷德福：我觉得你得换一个角度去想。只要是有软垫的家具，除非你已经用了超过40年，否则它的聚氨脂泡沫中肯定含有阻燃剂。大多数软垫类家具都是由聚氨酯泡沫制成的。今后我们能做的，就是不要再买含有这些化学物质的家具。
Ms. Walker: The chemicals are not banned. But it’s now legal to make furniture without them, and starting in January 2014, consumers can demand that their retailers carry it.
沃克：这些化学物质并没有被禁用；但在家具生产的过程中不添加它们，已经是合法的了。从2014年1月开始，消费者可以要求他们的零售商执行这条规定。
What about people who aren’t buying new furniture? They already have a sofa. The label says it complies with government laws.
问：那些不打算买新家具的人该怎么办呢？他们已经有了一个沙发。而标签上说，这些家具是符合政府法规的。
Mr. Redford: If you have O.C.D., congratulations. That means you’ve been vacuuming a lot, and washing your hands. You’re not going to see us starting a campaign to collect millions of couches and set them off on container ships into the ocean. But these chemicals do collect in household dust. The practical solution is to keep the dust in your house to a minimum.
雷德福：如果你有强迫症，恭喜你。这就意味着你一直以来经常给家里除尘，也经常洗手。我们不会发起回收旧沙发的活动，不会将千家万户的旧沙发装进集装箱，扔进大海。不过这些化学物质确实会在室内的粉尘中聚集起来。一个现实可行的解决方法就是，尽量减少室内的粉尘。
One of the eeriest scenes in the film is of a little girl frolicking on a sofa. Sunlight fills the room, highlighting the dust particles swirling in the air.
纪录片里最怪诞的场景之一，就是有个小女孩在沙发上嬉闹。阳光洒满整个房间，把空气中旋转的粉尘粒子都照了出来。
Ms. Walker: There was nothing nondocumentary about that scene. That was absolutely what was coming up off of the couch when she was jumping on it. That wasn’t us sprinkling dust.
沃克：在那个场景当中，没有任何非纪实的成分。那些粉尘完全是在小女孩蹦跳的时候从沙发里飞出来的。可不是我们撒的。
Is all this an argument for buying antiques? After all, wouldn’t furniture made before the 1975 law be free of these chemicals and, therefore, safer?
所有这些，是不是都可以作为购买古董家具的理由？毕竟，凡是1975年法律出台前生产的家具都没有这些化学物质，所以，它们更安全？
Mr. Redford: Yeah, go antiques! I mean, there’s a never-ending list of concerns — then you’re into lead paint or whatever. The great irony is that this law was considered, in 1975, to be a reform to protect us, but it’s just not.
雷德福：对啊，选择古董家具吧！我是说，让人担心的问题总是层出不穷的——说不定到时候你又会遇到含铅油漆什么的。很讽刺的是，1975年出台的那部法律在当时被视为一场改革，它的本意是为了保护我们，但却好心办了坏事。
Does furniture decline in toxicity?
家具的毒性会随着时间的流失而降低吗？
Ms. Walker: No, it gets less safe over time, because the foam breaks down. The older the foam gets, the more of it is released into the atmosphere.
沃克：不会，它会变得更不安全。因为泡沫会分解，时间越久，释放到大气中的化学物质越多。
Would furniture filled with something besides polyurethane foam be safer?
没有采用聚氨酯泡沫作为填充材料的家居，会不会更安全些？
Ms. Walker: Down- and wool-filled furniture is unlikely to contain added flame retardants. Wood and wicker also don’t have them.
沃克：羽绒和羊毛填充的家居一般不会添加阻燃剂。木头和柳条家具当中也不含这些物质。
At what point in this project did you start rethinking your own furnishings?
在项目开展到哪个阶段时，你也开始担心自己的家具了？
Ms. Walker: When I first learned about this, I came home and lifted up every piece of upholstered furniture in my home. And everything — except for a couple antiques that I got from my grandmother — had the TB 117 label in it. I still live with my furniture, but I am not going to give my furniture to my children, who are in their child-rearing years. The greatest effects of these chemicals are during pregnancy and nursing.
沃克：我一认识到这个问题，回到家就把所有软垫家具都搬走了，除了祖母给我的那两件古董家具，它们也带着TB 117的标签。我现在依然保留着这两件家具，但不会把它们留给我的孩子们了。他们现在都处在生育年龄，这些化学物质对正在怀孕和育儿期的人危害是最大的。
Mr. Redford: Of course, I did a whole round of furniture upgrades right before Kirby turned me on to this topic.
雷德福：当然，就在柯比和我讲到这个话题之前，我把家里的家具全方位升级了一次。
Oh, no!
噢，不是吧！
Mr. Redford: Yep. My wife was thumbing through the magazines diligently for months, and we settled on some stuff, and next thing I know I’m having lunch with Kirby.
雷德福：没错，我老婆勤奋地翻了几个月的杂志，然后我们就确定了几样家具。紧接着，我跟柯比一起吃午饭时就讨论了这个话题。
What are you sitting on right now?
那你现在坐的是什么沙发？
Mr. Redford: I’m sitting on my toxic couch as we speak. One of the things we did do — and I would think it would keep the dust down — was my wife took this really cool French linen sheet thing that she had and put it over the couch. That was her response. As for me, I have a new appreciation for the ringing noise of a vacuum cleaner. 
雷德福：我现在跟你说话的时候，坐的是我的毒沙发。我们的确采取过一些措施，我觉得其中有一个做法能够将室内的粉尘保持在较低水平——我老婆把她那条很酷的法式亚麻布床单拿来，盖在了沙发上。那是她的对策。至于我嘛，我现在对吸尘器噪音的鉴赏水平，已经上了一个台阶。