As the creative director of the French children’s clothing company Bonpoint, Christine Innamorato spends a lot of time thinking about fashion. But interior design, she said, deserves just as much attention.
作为法国童装品牌邦布朗（Bonpoint，法国顶级童装奢侈品牌——译注）的创意总监，克丽丝汀·那莫瑞图(Christine Innamorato)把大把的时间花费在了思考时尚这件事上。但是室内设计也值得同等的关注，她说。
If you’re trying to create a happy, comforting environment, “the decoration of a child’s room is very important,” said Ms. Innamorato, 48, speaking through an interpreter. That’s why her company has a dedicated team of antiques shoppers to furnish its 110 stores around the world, she said. In fact, she added, “When we show a nice dress in an armoire, sometimes the moms just want to buy the armoire.”
如果你想要打造一个快乐、舒适的环境，“儿童房的装修非常重要。”48岁的那莫瑞图通过翻译这样表示。这就是为什么她的公司里有一支专业的古董买手团队，为全球110家店面布置家具，她说。事实上，她补充道：“当我们在一个大衣柜里展示一件漂亮裙子时，有时妈妈们只想要买那个衣柜。”
But beyond furniture, “the quality of light is very important, and makes a big difference,” she said. “It has to be warm and cozy. It’s all about good energy.”
除家具之外，“灯光的质量也非常重要，而且真是会大不一样，”她说，“灯光必须温暖舒适，给人好的感觉。”
In New York for the opening of a new Bonpoint store in SoHo, Ms. Innamorato took time out to shop for the most comforting sort of lighting: night lights.
在纽约，邦布朗要在SoHo开一家新店，那莫瑞图花时间实地勘察了店面，找到最舒适的一种布光：夜灯。
At the Schoolhouse Electric & Supply Co. showroom in TriBeCa, she admired the Ion C-Series lamps in the window: bare bulbs with exposed filaments on brightly colored bases.
在位于翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的Schoolhouse Electric & Supply Co.，她对橱窗里的离子C系列(Ion C-Series)灯具喜爱有加：裸灯泡和暴露在外的灯丝，拧在色彩鲜艳、五颜六色的基座上。
“The light is just soft enough for a child’s night light, but it would also be good for an adult,” she said. “I would use a number of them together.”
“作为孩子的夜灯，这种光线足够柔和，但对于一个成年人来说也很好，”她说，“我想要把它们好几个放在一起用。”
At Babesta, she studied a large, playful lamp modeled on the cartoon character Miffy. “It’s funny, but it’s also comforting,” she said of the bunny-shaped form.
在巴贝斯通（Babesta，一家纽约童装店——译注），她看到一座好玩的巨大台灯，是以卡通形象米菲(Miffy)为原型制作的。“它非常有趣，光线也很舒适，”她如此评价这只兔子造型的灯具。
And because it was so much bigger than the average night light, she added, “You could put it on the floor or on a table next to the bed.”
因为这款灯比其它夜灯大得多，她补充道，“你可以把它放在地板上，或者床边的桌子上。”
She also liked the GummiLights by Jellio, battery-powered lamps made to look like oversize gummy bears.
她还喜欢Jellio设计的GummiLights这款灯，是靠电池供电的，造型像超大尺寸的小熊软糖。
Candy for the eyes, she called them: “You almost want to eat it.”
这是个养眼的东西，她这么称呼这款灯，“你几乎想要吃掉它。”
And at Kikkerland, in the West Village, she picked out the Moon night light.
而在西村(West Village)的仙源（Kikkerland，美国一家品牌家居店——译注），她拿起一款月亮夜灯。
A small, plug-in model, it was one of the simplest she chose. But as a design inspiration, the moon is “ideal for a night light,” she said. “It’s a nice invitation to dream.” 
这是一款小巧的即插式模型，是她挑选的灯具里最简单的一款。但是，作为设计灵感的月亮，是“最完美的夜灯”，她说，“是对美梦的绝佳邀请。”