SoHo, the downtown neighborhood known for its cast-iron lofts and 19th-century tenements, is about to get something with an uptown flavor: a glassy high-rise.  
苏豪区(SoHo)是（纽约）市中心的一个街区，因其街边林立的铸铁复式建筑和19世纪的出租公寓而闻名遐迩。如今，眼看一栋玻璃幕墙大厦就要在此拔地而起，将使这片地区沾染上一丝上城气息。
Sales are expected to begin this month for One Vandam, a 14-story condominium that will rise on the Avenue of the Americas near Vandam Street and open in early 2015. The building’s modern aesthetic will be a stark departure from the historic sensibility of the neighborhood, to the dismay of some residents and historic preservationists who fear it might dilute SoHo’s rich character. The slim edifice may tower above its neighbors, but developers hope the novel height will entice buyers with promises of unobstructed skyline views.
One Vandam大厦是一栋14层的共有产权公寓楼，正在美洲大道(the Avenue of the Americas)近范达姆大街(Vandam Street)的地段破土动工，预计本月开始预售，2015年初竣工。大厦所体现出的现代美学风格，将与街区内的历史建筑形成鲜明反差。这让一些当地居民和历史建筑保护主义者大伤脑筋，他们担心One Vandam大厦的出现会冲淡苏豪区浓厚的历史风情。这栋外形细长的大厦，或将遮挡住周边建筑的光线；而开发商却希望，以这座新式高层建筑那毫无遮挡的天际线景观作为卖点，来吸引买家入住。
“Who wouldn’t want to wake up and make breakfast in this kitchen to this view?” asked Nicholas Silvers, a founding partner of Tavros Capital Partners, standing in front of a wall-size photo of the skyline in a model kitchen at the sales office. Tavros is developing the 25-unit property with the Quinlan Development Group.
“谁不希望自己早上一觉醒来，就能在厨房里边做早餐，边欣赏这样的景色？”尼古拉斯·西尔弗斯(Nicholas Silvers)反问道。西尔弗斯是房地产投资管理和开发公司Tavros Capital Partners的联合创始人。说此话时，他正站在售楼办公室的厨房样板间里，面对着一幅占据整面墙壁的天际线景观照片。Tavros公司目前正与房地产开发集团Quinlan Development Group联手开发One Vandam这处包含25套公寓单元的楼盘。
Because the building has no tall neighbors, the design provides natural light in nearly all rooms, including bathrooms and kitchens. From the seventh floor up, all units will have skyline views. In a nod to SoHo’s industrial motif, most kitchens will have floor-to-ceiling pocket doors made of glass and steel.
由于周边没有高大的建筑，One Vandam大厦的设计使得几乎所有房间都能采到自然光，连浴室和厨房也包括在内。凡是七楼以上的单元，都能观赏到天际线景观。而为向苏豪区的复古工业风貌致敬，One Vandam的大多数厨房都将配备隐藏式落地推拉门（门扇可以滑入门道一侧的空芯墙里——译注），推拉门将采用玻璃和钢铁材质。
Studio DB designed the interiors, employing materials from local designers like the Hudson Company, which made the quarter-sawn white oak flooring. Mathews Nielsen, a landscape architecture firm, designed a 6,400-square-foot second-floor common terrace, which wraps around a lounge and gym. Prices start at $1.54 million, for a 737-square-foot one-bedroom. The smallest of three penthouses, a four-bedroom duplex with three terraces, is listed at $15 million.
设计顾问公司Studio DB负责了室内设计。他们采纳了许多本地设计公司的设计元素，比如Hudson Company制造了公寓所铺的径切（quarter-sawn，指切割面与木材年轮垂直，木材因而不易变形，多用于高档家具——译注）白橡木地板。而景观建筑公司Mathews Nielsen则设计了面积达6400平方英尺（约合595平方米）、环绕着一间休息室和一间健身房的二楼公共露台。公寓起价154万美元（约合人民币939万元），最便宜的一套是737平方英尺（约合68平方米）的单卧室套间。顶层公寓共有三套，其中最小的一套为带三个露台、四间卧室的复式公寓，挂牌价为1500万美元（约合人民币9142万元）。
While the building has piqued the interest of luxury buyers, it has unnerved SoHo preservationists who perceive it as a looming eyesore that may cast shadows on the neighborhood, including nearby Vesuvio Playground. With an uneven facade made of glass, steel and a pale limestone called Alabama stone, the building is likely to stand out.
One Vandam大厦吸引了奢华公寓买家的兴趣，但同时，苏豪区的建筑保护主义者却对此深感担忧，将这栋大厦视为眼中钉，担心它可能会遮挡周边建筑的采光——包括维苏威运动场(Vesuvio Playground)。大厦正面将采用玻璃、钢铁和一种被称为“阿拉巴马石”(Alabama stone)的灰白色石灰岩，呈现出凹凸有致的质感，使得此建筑或将格外引人注目。
“It’s about as out of place for this neighborhood as you could imagine,” said Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. “They’re taking a page from the Trump SoHo book rather than the lovely brick-and-mortar, 19th-century landscape that’s around.”
“这栋大厦与苏豪区的整体氛围根本就格格不入，”格林尼治村历史建筑保护协会(Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation)的执行董事安德鲁·伯曼(Andrew Berman)表示，“它只是一味地效仿特朗普休南酒店(Trump SoHo)，完全无法同周边风情浓郁的19世纪建筑景观相融。”
The 46-story Trump SoHo at Spring and Varick Streets does dwarf its neighbors, but One Vandam is a fraction of the height. It is also narrower, sitting between a five-story apartment building and God’s Love We Deliver, a nonprofit organization that is expanding to five stories. Nevertheless, One Vandam is unabashedly different from the industrial style of SoHo lofts.
46层楼高的特朗普休南酒店，坐落于斯普林斯街(Spring Street)和瓦瑞克街(Varick Street)交叉处。它的高度的确让周边建筑相形见绌，而One Vandam大厦的高度与之相比，只能算小巫见大巫；而且该大厦的体量也更狭窄，一侧坐落着一栋五层公寓楼，另一侧是非营利机构“我们传递上帝的爱”(God’s Love We Deliver)的所在地，该机构正着手将其扩建到五层。尽管如此，One Vandam大厦的确与苏豪区那些工业风格的复式公寓格格不入。
“The kind of people who look for SoHo and want the real loft experience, that’s not the kind of people who are buying these kinds of places,” said Siim Hanja, a broker for Brown Harris Stevens who specializes in the SoHo market. “These are the new, slick, second or third homes for guys in financial services who don’t have two seconds to rub together and just want a ready-made place.”
西姆·汉亚(Siim Hanja)是房地产公司Brown Harris Stevens的经纪人，专门从事苏豪区的房地产业务。“那些想在苏豪区寻找房源、以领略真正的复式公寓居住体验的人，和那种会在这样的地方买房的，可不是同一种人。在这里买房的都是些从事金融服务业的人，他们想要的是一套全新的高级住宅，作为自己的第二或第三住处。他们整天忙得焦头烂额，根本没时间精挑细选，只是想买一套现成的房子而已。”
Prices for a two-bedroom start at $3.275 million, for a 1,557-square-foot unit. Three-bedrooms range in size from 2,026 to 2,432 square feet, with prices starting at $5.25 million. All of the four-bedrooms have 2,261 square feet, with prices starting at $6.25 million. The price has not yet been listed for the top penthouse, a 5,270-square-foot triplex that has nearly 2,000 square feet of outdoor space, an outdoor spa, three fireplaces and a private elevator.
One Vadam大厦的两卧室公寓起价在327.5万美元（约合人民币1996万元），面积为1557平方英尺（约合145平方米）。三卧室公寓的面积在2026到2432平方英尺（约合188到226平方米）之间，起价525万美元（约合人民币3200万元）。而所有四卧室公寓的面积统一为2261平方英尺（约合210平方米），起价在625万美元（约合人民币3809万元）。顶层公寓目前尚无报价，面积达5270平方英尺（约合490平方米），内部共三层。该户型配备了将近2000平方英尺（约合186平方米）的室外空间、一个室外spa、三座壁炉和一部私家电梯。
Preservationists see One Vandam as emblematic of a shift toward high-rise development in the area west of SoHo and south of Greenwich Village, which is not protected by a historic designation. West Broadway marks the western boundary of the SoHo Cast Iron Historic District. The building will also be larger than current zoning rules permit, because its developers bought 19,000 square feet of additional development rights from God’s Love We Deliver, which allowed them to build a wider structure. Despite the size, the developers point to taller buildings along the western side of Sixth Avenue as evidence that One Vandam will complement the area, not crowd it.
建筑保护主义者们将One Vandam大厦视为一个缩影，它昭示着苏豪区以西、格林尼治村以南的地区正在迈向高层建筑的开发进程。这一地区并不属于历史建筑保护区，西百老汇(West Broadway)划出了苏豪区铸铁建筑历史街区(SoHo Cast Iron Historic District)的西侧边界。而One Vandam大厦的规模，也将比目前的区域规划所允许的范围更大，因为它的开发商已从“我们传递上帝的爱”购买了19000平方英尺（约合1765平方米）土地的额外开发权，可以将楼盘建得更宽。尽管规模至此，但其开发商指出，第六大道西侧不乏更高的建筑，因此One Vandam大厦只会与周边建筑互为补充，而不会挤占更多的空间。
“The city is about tall buildings,” said George Schieferdecker, a founding partner of BKSK Architects, which designed One Vandam. “This building strives to be a contemporary expression that has its roots in a lot of thought about traditional buildings.”
乔治·席费德克尔(George Schieferdecker)是建筑公司BKSK Architects的联合创始人兼One Vandam大厦的设计师。他表示，“纽约就是一座高楼林立的城市。One Vandam大厦致力于表达当代的设计理念，而这一理念是根植于对传统建筑的深入思考的。”