When other preschool parents bragged that their children had aced the admission test for New York City private schools with a top score of 99 in every section, Justine Oddo stayed quiet. Her twin boys had not done as well.
当其他学前儿童的家长夸耀他们的孩子在纽约私立学校的入学考试中以每科都得到99分的高分名列前茅时，贾斯汀·奥多(Justine Oddo)却一直保持着沉默。她的双胞胎儿子并没有得到这样高的分数。
“It seemed like everyone got 99s,” recalled Ms. Oddo as her sons, now 7, scampered around a playground near Fifth Avenue. “Kids you thought weren’t that smart got 99s. It was demoralizing. It made me think my kids are not as smart as the rest of the kids.”
“好像每个人都得到了99分，”奥多回忆着，说话时，她这对现年七岁的儿子正在第五大道附近的一个操场玩耍蹦跳。“那些你认为并没有那么聪明的孩子都得到了99分。这太让人泄气了。它让我觉得自家孩子不像别的孩子那么聪明。”
Her sons’ scores? Between them, they had one 99 and the rest 95s, which would still put them in the top 5 percent of all children nationwide.
她儿子考了多少分？在几项测试中，他们各拿了一个99分，其他都是95分，这样的成绩仍然能够让他们跻身全国孩子中的前5%。
A decision last week by a group of private schools to move away from the test, commonly known as the E.R.B., will spare many 4- and 5-year-olds from a rite of New York childhood that dates back half a century. But it could also bring an end to a particular New York status symbol — a child with knockout scores — and to the uncomfortable conversations that occur each year when results start rolling in.
上周，多家私立学校决定放弃被大众称为ERB（Educational Records Bureau，即教育档案局）的考试，这将让许多四五岁的孩子从一项持续了半个世纪的纽约人童年必备仪式中解脱。但它也可能终结一个纽约特有的地位标志——一个拥有惊人考分的孩子，同样可能被终结的，还有每年分数出炉时四处涌现的令人不适的对话。
From the Upper East Side to Brooklyn, score-dropping in playdates and parks is common, with high marks flaunted by the parents of children who excel with 99s and anguished over by those who have to explain anything less.
从上东区到布鲁克林，从玩伴聚会到公园玩耍，互相攀比分数都司空见惯，那些孩子得到99分的家长得意洋洋地展示高分，而不得不说出稍为逊色的分数的家长们则倍感苦恼。
One wealthy couple even celebrated their daughter’s 99s by throwing a catered bash at their Hamptons home with their closest preschool friends, said Bige Doruk, founder of Bright Kids NYC, which prepares several hundred children for the test every year. “I was thinking to myself, ‘What are they going to do when their kid gets into their school of choice?’” she said.
“纽约天才儿童”(Bright Kids NYC)每年要帮助几百个儿童备考，公司创始人之一比奇·多鲁克(Bige Doruk)透露，有一对富有的夫妻甚至因为他们的女儿得到99分而在汉普顿家中大摆宴席，邀请了他们最亲近的学前家庭的朋友。“我当时在心里想，‘如果他们的孩子进了理想的学校，那他们又该怎么庆祝呢？’”她说。
On urbanbaby.com, the Web site where parents chat about their children, the ubiquitous 99s prompted one person to question whether that score was really special since “they seem to be a dime a dozen.” In response came complaints of rampant test-prepping and outright lying.
urbanbaby.com是一个家长交流子女情况的网站，在该网站上，无处不在的99分让一位网友质疑，既然“它们看上去一毛钱就能买一打”，这个分数真的有那么特别吗？这个问题得到的回应，是网友们对疯狂的考前准备以及彻头彻尾的谎言的抱怨。
At the other end of the scale, some parents are quick to offer excuses for a relatively low score: their child was sick, tired or having a bad year. Amanda Uhry, founder of Manhattan Private School Advisors, said that one mother tried to explain away her daughter’s 68 by saying she had been bullied in preschool. “Whether it’s the E.R.B. or sports, parents see their kids as an extension of themselves,” Ms. Uhry said. “It reflects on them. They think, ‘What did I do wrong?’”
与此相对的是，有一些家长很快就能为相对较低的分数找到借口：他们的孩子当时病了，累了，或者这一年的考试运气不好。曼哈顿私立学校顾问(Manhattan Private School Advisors)的创始人阿曼达·乌里(Amanda Uhry)表示，有一位母亲试图把她女儿的68分解释为这是因为她在学前班里被欺负了。“不管是ERB还是体育运动，家长们都把孩子们看作是自己的某种延伸，”乌里说，“它在他们身上得到映射。他们会想，‘我到底做错了什么？’”
All this has led many private schools to try to discourage parents from comparing E.R.B. scores; Some have even likened it to one’s salary — the less said, the better. At the Mandell School, which has a preschool and kindergarten-through-eighth-grade school on the Upper West Side, administrators suspected that a few parents were actually inflating numbers in conversation. “We felt particularly ardent about the damage that that kind of information could do,” said Gabriella Rowe, the head of school at Mandell, which stopped requiring the E.R.B. for admission in 2010.
这一切都促使许多私立学校试图去让家长们不要再互相攀比ERB分数。有些学校甚至把分数比作是一个人的薪水——少说为妙。曼德教育(Mandell School)位于上西区，设有学前班及从幼儿园到8年级的学校，学校管理者们对部分家长在谈话中有意夸大与炫耀考分提出了质疑。“我们格外关切这种信息可能造成的伤害，”曼德教育的负责人加布里埃拉·罗威(Gabriella Rowe)说。该机构从2010年起就不再在招生时要求提供ERB成绩。
Last week the Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater New York, which represents more than 140 private schools, cited concerns that scores had been inflated by widespread test preparation and thus was no longer an accurate measure of ability. It said that it would stop recommending its members use the test as an entry requirement after next year, though a new assessment is expected to be developed in its place. Most schools in the group are expected to follow the recommendation.
上周，代表140多所私立学校的大纽约独立学校招生协会(Independent School Admissions Association of Greater New York)援引了人们的疑虑：考前辅导过于泛滥，导致分数水涨船高，使得这项考试不再是一种精确的评定儿童能力的计量标准。该协会表示明年将停止向成员推荐使用该考试作为入学要求，但他们会开发一个新的评估方法取而代之。该协会的绝大多数学校都将遵从它的建议。
The test, a version of an exam known as the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, consists of two sections: verbal (which includes vocabulary and comprehension) and performance (picture concepts and block design, among other skills). Students receive three percentile scores, one for each section and a combined mark; a proud parent might let it be known that their child was a “99 x 3” or simply a “99.”
这项考试是韦氏学前及学初智力量表(Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence)的考试版本，其中包括两个项目：语言（包含词汇与阅读理解）以及表现（比如图片概念和积木设计等技能）。学生会得到3个以百分比排序所得的分数，每个项目有一个这样的得分，此外还有一个综合分。一个自豪的家长通常会告诉别人他们的孩子得了“99x3”，或者简单地说得了99分。
The name E.R.B. is actually a misnomer; the test’s actual name is the Early Childhood Admission Assessment. E.R.B. stands for the Educational Records Bureau, which administers the test.
ERB这个名字其实是个误解，这个考试的真正名称应该是幼儿招生评估(Early Childhood Admission Assessment)，ERB指的是主办这项考试的教育档案局。
The bureau issued a report defending the test, saying that while scores had increased, they had done so only gradually over time. But the report also acknowledged “the alarming number of children” who score in the highest percentiles: in each of the past few years between 62 and 70 percent of the applicants to the independent schools represented by the association reached the 90th percentile, meaning they were in the top 10th of a national norm of students who took a version of the Wechsler test, and between 18 and 29 percent scored at the 98th percentile. However, the report said the average E.R.B. child was, statistically speaking, a higher performer than the average American child and that “this is not a new trend.”
档案局发布了一个报告来捍卫该考试，表示分数的确是上升了，不过是逐年缓慢提升的。但报告也承认有“数量多得令人警惕的孩子”得到了最高分：过去数年，在参加大纽约独立学校招生协会会员学校入学申请的孩子中，每年都有62%至70%的孩子得到了90分以上的分数，意味着在全国参加韦氏测试的所有学生中，他们位于前10%，而有18%至29%的孩子则得到了98分。但是，该报告称，从数据上来讲，参加ERB考试的孩子表现通常会比美国孩子的平均水平要高，而且“这并不是刚刚出现的新趋势”。
Still, among parents the coaching issue has become the preschool version of steroids in baseball, with any chart-busting score arousing suspicion. Debra Mesnick, a pediatrician whose children took the E.R.B., said she knew parents who were prepping their children even though they acted as though they were not. “There were the names of $200-an-hour tutors floating around, but people didn’t admit to using them,” she said. Such is the touchiness of the issue that discussing the test has become its own test of social etiquette. Francesca Andrews Goodwin, whose three daughters attend Grace Church School in Greenwich Village, said that she was tight-lipped about her daughters’ results. “I found it very rude when people talked about it openly,” she said.
在父母们中间，这种对分数的追求就像是类固醇之于棒球一样，只不过这是学前班版本的，这些破坏正常分布规律的分数引起了大家的怀疑。小儿科医生德布拉·梅斯尼克(Debra Mesnick)的几个孩子参加了ERB，她说她认识些家长，他们装成没有让孩子接受考前辅导，但其实他们的确有这么做。“周围一直在传一些收费200美元每小时的辅导老师的名字，但人们都不承认请过这些老师，”她说。这就是其中的敏感之处——谈论考试本身就成了对社交礼仪的一种测试。弗朗西丝卡·安德鲁斯·古德温(Francesca Andrews Goodwin)的三个女儿进了格林威治村的格蕾斯教会学校(Grace Church School)，她说她对于女儿的分数闭口不提。“我觉得人们这么公开谈论分数非常没礼貌，”她说。
Jae Chun, a lawyer, said he would try to discreetly change the subject. “When someone told you their child scored an 80 percent, it was very awkward to say your child scored a 99,” he said. Another parent, Marie Bishko, said that parents became stressed because the E.R.B. “divides children into two piles” — the 99s, and everyone else.
郑载（Jae Chun，音译）是一位律师，他说他会试着小心地转移话题。“当有人告诉你他们的孩子得了80分，如果说你的孩子得到了99分，那就会非常尴尬，”他说。另一位家长玛丽·比什科(Marie Bishko)说，父母们的压力很大，因为ERB考试“把孩子分成了两类”——一类是得了99分的，另一类是其他所有人。
Even more damaging than the social pressure is the potential for a nonstratospheric score to color a parent’s own perception of a child. One mother of three children said that her first son scored 99, but her second one received only a 90. “For a moment, you have to check yourself,” said the mother, who declined to be identified, but who admitted being surprised and disappointed.
较低的分数可能改变父母对孩子的看法，这比社交压力更具危害性。一位三个孩子的妈妈说，她的大儿子得到了99分，但二儿子就只得到了90分。“有那么一瞬间，你得小心审视一下自己，”她说，她不想透露自己的名字，但她承认她对二儿子的成绩有些惊讶与失望。
Ms. Oddo, 45, whose sons now attend second grade at the Saint Ignatius Loyola Grammar School on the Upper East Side, acknowledged that she was a little embarrassed by their E.R.B. scores until she “came back to earth.” She added: “If you get a 95 on a test at school, that’s great. No one would expect your child to get 100s.”
奥多女士今年45岁，她的儿子们进了上东区的圣依纳爵劳耀拉语法学校(Saint Ignatius Loyola Grammar School)，现在读二年级，她承认在“回归现实”之前，她对儿子们的ERB分数觉得有点难为情。她补充道：“如果你在学校的考试中得到了95分，那很棒。没人会期待自己的孩子总是得100分。”
Still, Ms. Oddo said she never talked about her sons’ scores at the time. And she was not the only one, she noted. Other than 99s, the only scores she heard were in the 70s and 80s, which were so low as to be credibly attributed to a lack of focus or just a bad day.
奥多说当时她从来没有跟别人谈起过儿子的分数。她指出，她并不是唯一这么做的人。除了99分之外，她听到的其他分数都是70多分或者80多分，这些分数太低了，所以都会被归因为孩子没有集中注意力或者那一天运气不大好。
“People who had 80s, they always had justification,” she said. “Nobody talks about it if it’s in the 90s.”
“那些得到80多分的人一直都能找到正当的理由，”她说，“得到90多分的那些人就从来不提这些。”