Question:
提问：
What do I do about “white-coat hypertension”?
应如何应对“白大褂高血压”(white-coat hypertension)？
Can someone please talk about “white-coat hypertension” — high or borderline high blood pressure at the clinic but up to 15 to 20 points lower at the discount store, state fair, etc. Is it common? Is it dangerous? What is a good level to aim for (at the clinic, at other places)? How bad does it have to be to need to take medicine for it? How to give the doctor a good picture of the actual situation? I would like to understand this better instead of being lectured.
请问是否可以谈一谈“白大褂高血压”（是指，在门诊诊室出现高血压或临界高血压，血压测量值比折扣店、国家博览会等场合下的测量值高15至20毫米汞柱的现象）？这种情况是否常见？它是否具有危险性？在门诊诊室和其他地点，血压分别以什么水平为宜？“白大褂高血压”恶化至何种程度时需要采取药物治疗？如何使医生准确地掌握血压水平的实际情况？我很想多了解一些这方面的知识，但我不想听枯燥的说教。
Answer:
回答：
Many people who have normal blood pressure experience anxiety-induced spikes in the doctor’s office that can give the impression of hypertension, or white-coat hypertension. It is considered somewhat common.
许多血压正常的人在医生诊室里都会出现焦虑诱发的血压突然升高，给人以高血压的错觉，人们将这种现象称为“白大褂高血压”，它的存在相当普遍。
If you think you are in that category, you should first establish whether your suspicion is indeed correct, said Dr. Sheldon G. Sheps, an emeritus professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic.
如果您觉得自己也是其中之一，请首先确定一下您的猜测是否正确，梅奥诊所(Mayo Clinic)的荣休教授谢尔登·G·谢普斯(Sheldon G. Sheps)博士说。
Blood pressure can rise or fall throughout the day depending on a number of factors. So doctors recommend that you take multiple readings under normal circumstances to get a good idea of your blood pressure outside the clinic.
在一天之内，血压可能因多种不同的因素而上升或下降。因此医生建议您在正常情境下进行多次测量，从而准确地确定您在诊室之外的血压水平。
If you are checking your blood pressure at home, for example, do it in the early morning or evening, and don’t eat or exercise directly beforehand. Take a seat in a comfortable chair for a few minutes with your legs uncrossed and your upper arm at heart level. Take three readings at intervals of one minute or longer, then calculate the average. Do this once or twice a day over several days to get a more accurate picture.
例如，您在自己家里测量血压时，请选择清晨或夜晚，且测量之前不要进食或运动。请在舒适的椅子上静坐几分钟，注意不要跷二郎腿，此外，请保持上臂与心脏在同一水平面上。每次测量重复读数三次，每两次读数之间至少间隔一分钟，然后计算三次读数的平均值。按照这种方法每天测量一或两次，并连续测量数天，以获得准确的居家血压水平。
At the doctor’s office, an average reading of 140/90 or greater is considered Stage 1 hypertension. At home, however, the upper limit of healthy blood pressure is considered to be 135/85.
一般来说，如果在医生诊室里测得的血压平均读数不低于140/90毫米汞柱，即可认为存在第1期高血压。然而，对于居家健康血压，上限为135/85毫米汞柱。
In the past, white-coat hypertension was often dismissed as not very serious. But now research suggests that as many as half of all people who exhibit the phenomenon eventually develop the real thing.
过去，人们一直觉得白大褂高血压没什么大不了的，也不用采取什么对策。但现在研究表明，在出现该现象的人群中，有一半左右最终发展成了真正的高血压。
“Most of us think that it does progress to established hypertension over time,” Dr. Sheps said.
“我们大部分研究人员都认为，随着时间的推移，白大褂高血压确实会进展为确诊高血压，”谢普斯博士说。
There is evidence that in elderly patients who exhibit white-coat hypertension, blood pressure medication can reduce the likelihood of cardiac events, Dr. Sheps added. But for the average person, medication is probably not immediately necessary.
有证据表明，在出现白大褂高血压的老年患者中，降压药可降低发生心脏事件的可能性，谢普斯博士补充道。但对于一般人而言，可能没必要马上进行药物治疗。
It is better to start with other measures that can lower blood pressure, like losing weight, cutting back on alcohol and increasing exercise. Continue monitoring your blood pressure to see if these changes make a difference, and work with your doctor to determine whether you might eventually need to take medication.
最好是从采取可降低血压的其他措施开始，如减肥、控制饮酒、增强锻炼等。请继续监测您的血压水平，观察上述生活方式的改变是否带来了积极的影响。请与您的医生合作，以确定您究竟是否需要接受药物治疗。