You’ve probably been cleaning your hands all wrong. They must be filthy.
你洗手的方式可能大错特错了。你的手肯定很脏。
Scientists have found that a common technique for applying hand sanitizer, one that is even recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is inferior to an alternative method with twice as many steps.
科学家发现，一种被广泛使用，甚至受到美国疾病防控中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)推荐的消毒洗手液使用方式，不如另一种需要双倍步骤的洗手方式。
The C.D.C. way:
疾控中心推荐的洗手方式：
Step One: Apply the sanitizer to one palm.
第一步：把洗手液挤在一只手掌上。
Step Two: Rub both palms together.
第二步：双手手掌互搓。
Step Three: Rub product over your hands until dry.
第三步：把洗手液搓满双手，直至变干。
In a study published in the journal of the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America, scientists in Scotland found that an alternative technique, recommended by the World Health Organization, was significantly more effective in reducing the median bacteria count on participants’ hands.
一项由美国医疗保健流行病学学会(Society for Healthcare Epidemiology)期刊发表的研究称，苏格兰科学家发现，另一种由世界卫生组织推荐的洗手方式更能有效地减少参与实验者手上的细菌中位数。
It was also more time-consuming. The C.D.C. method takes 35 seconds on average to complete; the alternative, 42.5 seconds.
这种方法也更耗费时间，疾病防控中心推荐的方法平均需要35秒，这种方法则需要42.5秒。
You may notice that while the three-step instructions include applying the sanitizer and allowing your hands to dry, the six-step technique ignores both actions. (The diagramed W.H.O. method actually contains 11 intensive steps. The study only counted Steps 2 through 7.)
你可能注意到，疾控中心推荐的三步法包括了把洗手液挤在手上和搓揉至变干，这种六步的方法不包括这两步（世界卫生组织提供的图解其实包括更细致的11步。这项研究只采用了其中的第二步到第七步）。
Here’s how you do it the (much more laborious) W.H.O. way:
下面是世界卫生组织提供的方法（要费事得多）：
Step One: Rub palms together.
第一步：双手手掌互搓。
Step Two: Rub each palm front to back over the back of the other hand, interlacing fingers.
第二步：一只手手掌放在另一只手的手背上，手指交叉互搓。换另一手再做一次。
Step Three: Twist palms with fingers interlaced, and rub between fingers.
第三步：双手手掌相对，手指交叉互搓。
Step Four: Interlock your fingers, (thumbs should be on opposite sides), and twist again, this time, backs of fingers against palms.
第四步：双手手指相扣（拇指应该在相对的两侧），手指指背对着另一手的手心，互搓。
Step Five: Clasp your left thumb in your right hand and move thumb in circular motion — then switch thumbs.
第五步：右手握住左手大拇指，右手大拇指在左手手背上打圈，换手再做一次。
Step Six: (Still with us?) Press your right fingers together and rub them in a circular motion on your left palm, then switch. You’re done!
第六步：（你还在看吗？）右手手指并拢，在左手手心上打圈，换手再做一次。大功告成了！
Jacqui Reilly of the Glasgow Caledonian University, the lead author of the study, which focused on health-care workers, stressed that the way the steps were counted emphasized the precision of the superior W.H.O. technique. “The difference between them is that the W.H.O. guidance gives you six maneuvers to do, instead of just saying, ‘Apply it all over your hands,’ ” she said.
这项研究的主要作者，格拉斯哥苏格兰大学的杰奎·雷利(Jacqui Reilly)专门研究医疗保健工作者，她强调， 世界卫生组织提供的方法更好，是因为这种计算步骤的方法突出了它的准确性。“两种方式的区别在于，世界卫生组织的方法给了你六个具体的步骤，而不是仅仅说，‘涂抹洗手液遍布双手’，”她说。
Hand hygiene, she added, remained “the single most important intervention that you can do to prevent health care-associated infection but also to protect yourself and your family from infections and viruses.”
她补充说，双手的卫生是“在预防与健康有关的感染过程中你能做的最重要的一件事，能保护你与家人不受传染病与病毒侵害。”
Certain antibacterial soaps may do more harm than good, experts say. Some have come under scrutiny for using chemicals like triclosan. The Food and Drug Administration has recommended using hand sanitizers that contain at least 60 percent alcohol if soap and water is unavailable.
专家说，某些抗菌肥皂可能弊大于利。有些抗菌肥皂因使用了三氯沙(triclosan)之类化学制剂而受到审查。在没有肥皂与清水的情况下，食品与药物管理局(The Food and Drug Administration)推荐使用包含至少60%酒精的消毒洗手液。
Dr. Reilly said that while her study focused only on alcohol-based hand sanitizer, the technique applied equally well to hand washing with soap and water.
雷利博士说，她的研究仅关注以酒精为基础的洗手液，但也同样可以用在使用肥皂和清水的洗手方式中。
O.K., so maybe you have been persuaded but are reluctant to memorize and do all those new steps? You’re not alone. According to the study, even the health-care professionals who participated had trouble with all the steps. Nearly a third of them were unable to complete the entire process despite “having instructions on the technique in front of them and having their technique observed.”
好吧，或许你已经被说服了，但还不太愿意记住那么多的新步骤？你不是一个人。根据这项研究，就连参与研究的医疗保健专家都记不住这么多步骤。尽管“这项洗手技术指导就摆在他们面前，并且有人观看指导的情况下，”他们当中仍有接近1/3的人无法完成全部过程。