The Catalpa Tree Appreciation Society needs fresh blood. There are no meetings to attend and no dues to pay. All you have to do is appreciate the catalpa tree. Maybe plant one in the yard.
梓树保护协会(The Catalpa Tree Appreciation Society)需要新鲜血液。加入该协会不需要付费，也不需要开会。你所需要做的，就是懂得欣赏梓树。或许在自己的院子里种上一棵。
And that’s the hitch. Almost no one appreciates the catalpa tree, and few gardeners have planted one since the financial crisis. The one in the 1930s.
可是问题在于，几乎没人喜欢梓树。自从本世纪30年代那场金融危机以来，几乎没有园艺师再栽种这种树了。
The catalpa growing in front of my house dates to a decade or two before then, or so it appears from old street photographs. It’s a charismatic tree, with heart-shaped leaves as big around as a 45 r.p.m. record. (For younger readers: These spinning platters were the 20th-century music technology that replaced choirs of local castrati.)
长在我家门前的梓树，已经有一、二十岁了，因此它的身影出现在一张张老街景照片上。这是一棵颇有魅力的树，树叶呈桃心形，每片叶子大约和一张每分钟45转的唱片（45 r.p.m. record，写给年轻读者的话：这些旋转的唱片是20世纪的音乐技术，现在已经被地方唱诗班的阉人歌手所取代了）大小相仿。
The papery white blossoms could form the outlines of an Egon Schiele nude, and the seedpods dangle for seasons on end. In winter, the tree’s intricate silhouette would make a perfect shadow puppet (an art form that I predict will soon eclipse the talkies).
树木开出的纤薄白花，可以构成一幅埃贡•席勒(Egon Schiele)笔下裸体的轮廓；而种荚则会跨越数个季节，一直悬挂在枝头。在冬季里，树枝盘旋交错，构成一幅完美的皮影戏（我预计，这种艺术形式会迅速取代有声电影）。
So why should the “cigar tree” have become less popular than a cigar? And if a plant as congenial and durable as the catalpa could vanish from the country’s nurseries and catalogs, what other horticultural treasures might have faded with it?
那么，为什么这种“雪茄树”远不如雪茄烟流行呢？如果一种植物像梓树这样宜人又耐久，还从这个国家的苗圃里和目录上消失，还有其它哪些园艺珍宝，与之一起消失了呢？
Imagine that somehow, when no one was looking, your local library deaccessioned all the books by Jack London and Edith Wharton. Wouldn’t you start scouring the shelves to find out what other 20th-century classics you might have missed? Under the letter C, after the catalpa, there would be another gap where the crinums used to be; under F, the flowering crab apple; under N, the Norway maple; under S, the spicebush.
想象一下，由于无人借阅，你们当地的图书馆就把杰克•伦敦(Jack London)和伊迪丝•华顿(Edith Wharton)的书处理掉了。难道你不会开始在书架上寻找其它你可能错过的20世纪经典文学作品吗？字母C下，在梓树(catalpa)的后面还有个空白，空白处原本是文珠兰(crinums)；字母F下则是海棠花(flowering crab apple)；字母N下是挪威枫树(Norway maple)；字母S下是西美腊梅(spicebush)。
In a broad sense, American homeowners have stopped spending money on all types of trees and shrubs. Bruce Butterfield, the market research director for the National Gardening Association, recorded a 46 percent drop in landscaping purchases in the four years after the financial panic (the 2008 edition). During roughly the same period, food-gardening sales increased 40 percent.
从广义上说，美国的房主们早就不在任何树木或灌木上再花一分钱了。布鲁斯•巴特菲尔德(Bruce Butterfield)是全美园艺协会(National Gardening Association)的市场研究总监。根据他的记录，在2008年金融危机之后的四年中，绿化造景的消费额降低了46%。但在大约同一时期，食用作物种植的销售增长了40%。
“Planting trees and shrubs is a major long-term investment, as is landscaping a new home or relandscaping an existing home,” Mr. Butterfield, 64, wrote in an email. “There are also fewer young people who can afford to buy their first home these days.” (It surely goes against the American nature to plant a tree in a rented yard.)
“种植树木和灌木是一种长期投资，无论是给一栋新房子做园林绿化，还是重新美化一栋现有房屋的环境，”64岁的巴特菲尔德在电子邮件里说，“而现在，越来越少的年轻人能承担得起他们的首套住宅了。”（毫无疑问，在一个租来的院子里种树，的确不现实。）
The vagaries of what landscapers and gardeners want has been a consuming question for Richard T. Olsen, a research geneticist and urban tree breeder at the United States National Arboretum in Washington. Dr. Olsen, 39, is the self-proclaimed “vice president of the catalpa plant club,” having written monographs on the plant and developed a new cultivar. (Look for it to storm the market around 2030.)
理查德·T·奥森(Richard T. Olsen)是一位遗传学家，也是位于华盛顿的美国国家植物园(United States National Arboretum)的一位城市树种培育师。对他来说，庭院设计师和园艺师们各式各样的需求，就是一个消费问题。39岁的奥森博士自封“梓树俱乐部副主席”，他为这一树种写了专著，还发展出一种新的培育方法。（让我们期待它在2030年前后席卷整个市场吧。）
“The No. 1 reason I think plants go out of fashion is that a pest or disease catches up with it,” Dr. Olsen said. He ran down a list of once-popular and now-stricken urban trees like the American elm, green ash, Lombardy poplar and hemlock. “Homeowners don’t want to be out in the yard spraying chemicals on plants.”
“一种植物要是变得不再流行，我能想到的第一个原因就是，病虫害在捣鬼。”奥森博士说。他列出一个清单，枚举了曾经流行、但现已式微的城市树种，比如美国榆树、绿白蜡树、白杨树和铁杉。“房主们不愿意走到院子里，往树上撒化学杀虫剂。”
A close No. 2: invasiveness. Dr. Olsen was talking here about once-esteemed plants that a modern ecological consciousness has redefined as weeds. Think of the Norway maple, ailanthus, buckthorn or Asian bittersweet. More on those pariahs in a moment.
第二点同样重要的原因是：入侵性。说到这一点，奥森博士认为，从现代生态学的观念来看，一些过去曾经深受人们喜爱的植物，现在已完全被重新定义成了杂草。想想挪威枫树、臭椿、鼠李草或亚洲蛇藤。还没过多久呢，这些植物就被人们抛弃了。
The Case of the Missing Cigar Tree ultimately led me to call a half-dozen of Dr. Olsen’s peers: horticulturists, historians, plants people and nursery owners. They had their own neglected favorites and mysterious disappearances: Rosebuds, if you will.
“消失的雪茄树”这个案例，让我最终给奥森博士一大半的同行都打了电话：园艺家们、历史学家们、种植者们和苗圃业主们。他们每人都能说出自己忽略的最爱品种及其神秘消失：妙龄少女，如果你愿意这样形容的话。
There were plants that bloomed at the wrong time for the spring garden-center rush, like the Japanese flowering apricot. Or the ones that took a half-dozen years to reach market size at a ball-and-burlap nursery: for instance, a sugar maple. And what about those that were too big for modern yards or too messy or too fleeting in interest — say, witch hazel, spirea or the common lilac?
有些植物，在错误的时间绽放花朵，搞得春天的花园中心很是繁忙，比如日本杏花。还有一些植物，需要大半年时间来培育，才能达到市场要求的带土移植的尺寸要求，比如一株糖枫树。那么，对于现代庭院来说，那些体积太大，或太过凌乱，或是太容易让人厌倦的品种怎么办呢——比如，金缕梅、绣线菊或者洋丁香？
The garden experts seemed to be describing an island of misfit toys. And yet this wasn’t the plant list from a far-off botanical garden. It was the yard next door, a couple of decades ago.
园艺专家好像是在描绘一座失宠玩具之岛。然而这还不是一份来自远方植物园的植物名录，这就是在隔壁的花园里，区区几十年前的事儿。
The catalpa, as it turned out, was big and messy. Forget a leaf blower: You’d need a jet engine to move those seedpods. Though beautiful, the bloom was short-lived. And the foliage sometimes turned into a welcome mat for powdery mildew. Further, though the tree’s two species (Catalpa bignonioides and Catalpa speciosa) were (and are) native to the American South and Midwest, the “northern” or “western” catalpa (Catalpa speciosa) proved to be something of an invasive species farther east. That’s a lot of demerits.
事实是，梓树也是一种体型巨大、树枝散乱的植物。忘掉树叶鼓风机吧：你需要一台喷气式引擎，来帮你把它的落叶运走。尽管它的花朵很美，但是花期却很短。而且，树叶有时会变成白粉病菌舒适的温床。进一步讲，尽管这种树的两个品种（美国梓树[Catalpa bignonioides]，和北方梓树[Catalpa speciosa]）都是美国南部和中西部的本土品种，那些“北方”的或“西部”的梓树（北方梓树）已被证实是一种来自远东的入侵物种，有许多缺点。
And yet the fast-growing tree, with its rot-resistant wood, was once considered “a miracle plant” for the railroad industry. Dr. Olsen referred me here to the (presumptive) president of the (nonexistent) Catalpa Tree Appreciation Society, Peter Del Tredici, 68, who recently retired as the senior research scientist at the Arnold Arboretum in Boston.
这种树生长迅速、木料耐腐蚀，曾被认为是铁路工业的一种“奇迹树种”。奥森博士向我提起（并不存在的）梓树保护协会（假设的）主席彼得•德尔•特雷迪奇(Peter Del Tredici)。68岁的彼得刚刚从波士顿阿诺德植物园(Arnold Arboretum)高级研究科学家的岗位上退休。
In a 1986 article for the journal Arnoldia, Dr. Del Tredici traced the 19th-century “catalpa craze” to two enthusiasts: E. E. Barney of Dayton, Ohio, and Robert Douglas of Waukegan, Ill. “By his own reckoning,” the article reports, “Douglas had planted over two and a half million seedlings throughout Kansas and Missouri in less than six years.”
在1986年发表在《阿诺德植物学报》(Arnoldia)的一篇文章中，德尔•特雷迪奇将兴起于19世纪的“梓树热”，归咎于两名狂热份子：俄亥俄州代顿市(Dayton, Ohio)的E·E·巴尼(E. E. Barney)，和伊里诺斯州沃基根镇(Waukegan, Ill)的罗伯特·道格拉斯(Robert Douglas)。这篇文章写道：“根据道格拉斯自己的估算，在六年之内，他在堪萨斯州和密苏里州种下了超过250万株树苗。”
Not to be outdone, Mr. Barney wrote tracts praising the tree as a source of material for railroad ties (for which they proved ill suited). He offered to mail 2,500 seeds, and a copy of his pamphlet, “upon receipt of fifty cents.”
不甘示弱的巴尼写了许多小册子大力赞美这种树，说它是修建铁路轨道的材料（这一点被他们证明是不合适的）。他寄出了2500粒种子以及自己的小册子，“收到五十美分”。
After Dr. Del Tredici wrote his own treatise on catalpa, he said, “people started coming to me with these stories.” In the early 20th century, for instance, the Town of Harvard, Mass., apparently distributed a catalpa plant as a gift to every high-school graduate. Hundreds were planted. “Of course, they escaped,” he said, “and started behaving like an invasive.”
在德尔•特雷迪奇写完他关于梓树的专著后，他说：“读者们开始找我反馈一些故事。”比如在20世纪早期，马萨诸塞州的哈佛镇把梓树作为礼物，送给每一位高中毕业生。成百上千的人种下了这种树。“当然，它们四散开来，”他说，“然后开始表现得越来越像入侵植物。”
This narrative crops up again and again in Dr. Del Tredici’s 2010 book, “Wild Urban Plants of the Northeast,” a field guide that makes a sneaky case for appreciating the mixed lot of plants that succeed in our degraded environment.
这种作物，一次又一次出现在德尔•特雷迪奇2010年出版的《东北部城市野生植物》(Wild Urban Plants of the Northeast)一书中。这本图鉴不动声色地举例说明，要珍惜在我们这个退化的环境下成功存活的混生植物群。
As Dr. Olsen puts it, “We’re kind of lucky to have plants that want to live in these urban areas.” Among the unfashionable are fantastically adaptable street trees: Norway maple and ailanthus in the north; callery (or “Bradford”) pear, Chinaberry and Chinese pistache in the South; and blue gum eucalyptus and edible fig on the West Coast.
正如奥森博士写道的：“有植物愿意在城市里生存下去，对于我们来说，这多少是种幸运。”一些不再流行、但适应能力极强的行道树包括：北方的挪威枫树和臭椿；南方的豆梨树、苦楝树和黄连木；西海岸的橡胶桉树和无花果树。
Still, it’s hard to imagine gardeners warming to Oriental bittersweet (Celastrus orbiculatus), the subject of Dr. Del Tredici’s latest monograph in Arnoldia and “a template for a lot of other plants” that have fallen out of favor.
然而，很难想象园艺师们对南蛇藤的好感升温。它正是德尔•特雷迪奇在最近一期《阿诺德植物学报》里所发表文章的主题，也是已经失宠的“一种许多其它植物的模范”。
Oriental bittersweet is the eager and monstrous vine with the coquelicot-colored seeds that coats the trees along suburban parkways in New York, turning them into topiary blobs. Yet after it was commercially introduced to the United States in 1886 or 1887 by the Kissena Nursery in Flushing, N.Y., the plant enjoyed decades of good press. (Among its biggest boosters: the Arnold Arboretum.)
南蛇藤是一种生长迅速、外观怪异丑陋的藤本植物，鲜艳的橙红色种子覆盖了纽约郊区驾车专用道两边的行道树，把这些树变成了一团团的造型。自从在1886年或1887年由纽约州法拉盛(Flushing, N.Y.)的凯辛娜苗圃(Kissena Nursery)被商业性地引入美国之后，这种植物多年来享受了新闻舆论的好评。（其中最大的鼓吹者是阿诺德植物园。）
“A lot of these start with wealthy estate owners in the Long Island or in the New York-Connecticut area,” Dr. Del Tredici said. At first, the specimens are rare and expensive, propagated not by seed but by cuttings. Next, “as the price falls, ordinary people can afford to plant them. And then, when they get really cheap, the state can buy tons of them for massive planting projects.”
德尔•特雷迪奇说：“这种植物的种植，是从长岛和纽约康涅狄格区的有钱人家开始兴起的。”最初，这种植物很稀少也很昂贵，不是靠种子而是靠扦插繁殖的。随后，“随着价格下降，普通人也买得起、种得起了。那时候，它的价格已足够低廉，这个国家为大量植树项目购买了成百上千吨的南蛇藤。”
When it comes to “weedy” plants, the idea of fashion is probably a fiction. We may have banished a few invasives from the well-cultivated yard. But they haven’t disappeared from the vacant lots and underpasses that make up the public commons.
一提到“杂草般的”植物，时尚这个想法似乎就不太切实际了。我们或许已经把入侵植物从精心打理的院子里清了出去；但是，它们并没有从空地上消失，而正是这些空地构成了大部分公共空间。
A more scenic spot to search for America’s botanical heritage is the graveyard. That’s probably the best place to find the perennial crinum lily (Crinum spp.), said the horticulturist Jenks Farmer, whose new book, “Deep-Rooted Wisdom,” praises folk garden traditions.
对于研究美国植物遗产学的人，一个有更多风景可看的去处就是墓园。那里可能是寻找多年生剑叶百合的最佳地点，园艺学家詹克斯·法默(Jenks Farmer)如是说。在他的新书《深深扎根的智慧》(Deep-Rooted Wisdom)一书中，他大力推崇民间园艺的传统。
“There’s a famous cemetery in downtown Charleston filled with crinums,” Mr. Farmer said. “I think it’s a Unitarian one.”
“在查理斯顿(Charleston)城中心，有一个著名的墓园，里面长满了文珠兰，”法默说，“我想这种植物是带有神性的。”
He encountered his first specimen on the 1750s farmette his parents bought in Beech Island, S.C., near the Georgia state line. “It came up in the middle of the grass every year,” he said. “We would make little bike ramps and jump it.”
他遇到的第一株植物样本，采自他父母买的那座建于18世纪50年代的城郊小屋。小屋位于南卡罗莱纳州的比奇岛(Beech Island)，靠近佐治亚州的边境。“这种植物每年都出现在草场当中，”他说，“我们会做些小小的自行车坡道，跳过它。”
The flower is still there. A crinum, he said, is hard to kill. The plant enjoyed a local vogue as a cut flower before the cotton market crashed in the 1920s. And as far as Mr. Farmer can tell, it didn’t really come back until after World War II and the proliferation of bulb societies.
这种花还在那里。文珠兰，他说，一种难以扼杀的植物。在20世纪20年代棉花市场崩溃之前，这种植物的鲜切花俨然成为了当地的一种时尚。据法默所知，直到二战后，鳞茎类花卉协会激增，这种植物才真正挽回了往日的风光。
“People always laugh at this,” he said, “but the bigger the bulbs, the more men are involved.”
“人们总是嘲笑这种植物，”他说，“但是鳞茎越大，就有越多人参与其中。”
Mr. Farmer, 48, runs a small crinum nursery at the old family farm, raising them directly in the ground where he used to pick rows of okra. There’s a reason for this practice. A mature crinum forms an enormous root structure. “I’ve had a crinum clump that weighed 400 pounds,” he said. “You need a tractor to move them.”
48岁的法默在古老的家庭农场上经营着一家小小的文珠兰苗圃，把它们直接种在他曾经用来栽种黄秋葵的土地里。这样做是有一定原因的。一株成熟的文珠兰会形成庞大的根系结构。“我曾经有一株文珠兰重达400磅，”他说，“得用一台拖拉机才能拖得动。”
No surprise, “They don’t make great container plants,” Mr. Farmer said. And that means they don’t make great nursery plants. A crinum’s fast-spreading roots will outgrow any plastic pot, and the big leaves prove fragile in shipping. “By the time they’re at the nursery, they’re not particularly good-looking,” Mr. Farmer said. “They don’t have any shelf appeal.”
毫无疑问，“他们不做体积太大的盆栽植物，”法默说。那就意味着他们也不培植太大的苗木。一株文珠兰迅速生长的根会穿透任一只塑料花盆，它们的大叶子也经不起运输过程的颠簸。“它们在苗圃中的时候，外观并不是很好看，”法默说，“它们摆在货架上，毫无吸引力可言。”
He added, “If you think about a nursery as a factory, the more uniform the crop is, the easier and more profitable it is for the nurserymen.”
他补充道：“如果你把苗圃想成一家工厂，里面的作物规格越统一，那么对于苗圃主人而言就越好打理，利润也越高。”
Yet many plants do not want to germinate or grow at the pace of modern industry. Consider the spicebush (Lindera glauca var. salicifolia), a willowish and deer-proof shrub whose fall foliage lights up like an arts-and-crafts project at Burning Man. You can find it at Pleasant Run Nursery, a wholesale grower in Allentown, N.J., and just about nowhere else. The nursery’s co-owner, Heidi Hesselein, explained that “the seed has a two-year dormancy, and most nurseries don’t have the ability to wait that long.”
然而，许多植物并不愿意按现代工业化的节奏发芽和生长。比如西美腊梅（spicebush，山胡椒 var. 柳叶绣线菊），这是一种可以防鹿的灌木丛，其落叶红得就好像“火人节”（Burning Man，美国内华达州沙漠里一年一度的节庆活动）上的手工艺品。你可以在Pleasant Run Nursery这个网站里看到它。这是一家位于新泽西州艾伦顿市(Allentown)、人迹罕至的苗木批发商。苗圃的合伙人海蒂•赫赛尔贝因(Heidi Hesselein)解释说：“这类种子有两年的休眠期，大部分苗圃都没有耐心等那么久。”
Ms. Hesselein, 62, is a fourth-generation nursery owner. She runs the business with her husband, a fourth-generation nurseryman. After work on a recent afternoon, she flipped through her father’s old catalogs (he owned the once popular and now extinct Princeton Nurseries) and noted dozens of plants that no longer seem to sell.
现年62岁的赫赛尔贝因，是第四代苗圃主人。她和同为第四代苗圃人的丈夫，一起打理苗圃生意。一个结束劳作的午后，她翻阅父亲的老目录（她的父亲拥有一家曾经很火的苗圃，叫作Princeton Nurseries，但是现已无存），注意到许多植物现在已经不再销售了。
“In 1995, he was growing 30 different cultivars of flowering crab apples,” she said. A comprehensive catalog today, she said, may offer four or five. The flowering cherry trees, she said, have seen a similar winnowing in the trade.
“在1995年，他种了30种不同的海棠，”她说。而现在，就算是一本综合目录也只会提供四、五个品种。她说，樱花树也面临同样的问题。
The home gardener would have to seek these plants out. And data from the National Gardening Association suggest that the typical customer does not. Only 17 percent of 2012 garden sales occurred at dedicated garden centers. By comparison, 47 percent of sales took place at home-improvement centers and mass merchants like Target. (Good luck finding a flowering quince at Sam Walton’s little chain of dirt farms.)
家庭园丁还得把这些植物找出来。来自全美园艺协会(National Gardening Association)的数据表明，普通消费者不会那么做。2012年，仅有17%的园艺销售，发生在专业的园艺中心。相比之下，47%的销售发生在家居装饰中心，或类似Target这样的大卖场。（在萨姆·沃尔顿[Sam Walton]的农场小型连锁店里找到榅桲花，那可真是好运气。）
In a similar vein, the Hesseleins call their operation a “specialty nursery.” But not that long ago, she could have just called it a nursery. Among the roughly 3,000 cultivars they grow for sale, many are well-loved plants introduced only 40 to 50 years ago by the National Arboretum and its prolific breeder Donald Egolf. Ms. Hesselein named crape myrtles, magnolias, viburnums — plants that no one would call exotic.
同样，赫赛尔贝因称他们的经营为“专业苗圃”。可就在不久之前，她还只是叫它为苗圃呢。在他们种植的3000多株用来销售的幼苗中，许多备受喜爱的植物都是仅仅四、五十年前由国家植物园和能干的育种专家唐纳德•艾格夫(Donald Egolf)引进的。赫赛尔贝因命名了各种紫薇花、木兰花、荚蒾——都是人们叫不上名的舶来品。
“Our fear was these unique introductions to the trade might disappear if we didn’t grow them and propagate them,” she said. “Some of these plants need to be bud-grafted, a type of grafting that not a huge number of nurseries still do. It’s an old craft.”
“我们担心，这些独一无二的引进品种卖掉之后，如果我们不再种植和繁育它们的话，可能会消失，”她说，“其中一些植物需要嫁接，这种嫁接方法现在很少有园丁还会做了。这可是门古老的手艺。”
This is not the kind of horticulture the salesclerk in the orange apron learns at the Home Depot.
这可不是家得宝(Home Depot)里穿着橙红色围裙的销售员学的那种园艺。
The garden historian Denise Wiles Adams promotes a basic truth about the garden: “Our plant choices are mainly guided by what’s available in the nursery.”
花园历史学家丹尼斯•怀尔斯•亚当斯(Denise Wiles Adams)推崇这么一条关于园艺的基本真理：“我们对植物的选择，主要取决于苗圃里有什么。”
Dr. Adams, 63, established this fact beyond any doubt in her indispensable book “Restoring American Gardens: An Encyclopedia of Heirloom Ornamental Plants 1640-1940.” She spent nearly a decade scouring the nation’s nursery catalogs to discover when plants first appeared in the marketplace and how widely they were sold. She ultimately tallied over 25,000 taxa offered in 300 catalogs and advertisements, dating back to 1719. (Dr. Adams also provides appropriate plant lists for period homes and gardens in her new book, “American Home Landscapes,” written with Laura L. S. Burchfield.)
现年63岁的亚当斯博士在她的大作《复兴美国的花园：一部观赏植物的百科全书1640-1940》(Restoring American Gardens: An Encyclopedia of Heirloom Ornamental Plants 1640-1940) 排除一切质疑，确立了这个观点。她花了近十年时间，遍阅全美国的苗圃目录，看各种植物第一次出现在市场上的时间以及它们的销售范围。最终，她在300个目录和广告册里找到了超过2500种植物，最早可以追溯到1719年。（亚当斯在她与劳拉·L·S·菲尔德[Laura L. S. Burchfield]合著的新书《美国家庭环艺》[American Home Landscapes]中，还提供了一个赏花植物的名录。）
More than a few of these plants are being nurtured in her sloping home garden in Stony Point, N.Y., with a view of the Hudson River. Ultimately, Dr. Adams has concluded that there is literally nothing new under the sun. The same plant trends flourish and die back, decade after decade, century after century.
在她位于纽约史东尼角(Stony Point)那处可以看到哈德逊河(Hudson River)的、倾斜的家庭花园里，她培育了其中不少植物品种。最终，亚当斯得出结论，太阳底下没有新鲜事。年复一年，世纪交替，同样的植物潮流盛了又败。
Tropical plants like elephant ear festooned catalogs in the 1880s and 1890s, she said. “Fast forward 80 years and you see similar interest. Who can say why?”
诸如象耳蕨(elephant ear festooned)这样的热带植物，曾出现在19世纪八、九十年代的目录上，她说，“再过80年，你会发现同样的喜好。谁能说清楚这是为什么？”
The same pattern has emerged with the latest style: vegetable gardens in the front yard, a fad also seen 100 years ago.
同样的模式，又以最新的流行面貌再度出现：在前院种蔬菜，100年前也是当时的风尚。
“My immediate reaction is: there’s an order to identify,” Dr. Adams added. But so far it has proved elusive. “It might be more random than I want to think it is.”
“我的第一反应就是：需要寻找到一个规律。”亚当斯补充说。但是目前看来还是难以解释，“或许比我想象的还要随机吧。”
This riddle leaves the spurned catalpas of America to plot their own comeback, tossing seedpods at bystanders, year after year. Why not take the hint?
在这种随机性之下，一时失宠的梓树可能会在美国卷土重来。它那心形叶子飘落下来，纷纷扬扬地撒在路人身上，年复一年。我们为何不接受这种暗示呢？