A soft pink, a glowing red, even a cyanotic purple — millions of women and girls apply lipstick every day. And not just once: some style-conscious users touch up their color more than 20 times a day, according to a recent study. But are they also exposing themselves to toxic metals?
柔粉色、亮红色、甚至青紫色……每天，有数百万的女性使用色彩缤纷的唇膏，而且不止一次：根据最近的一项研究，某些时尚人士每天补妆20次以上。但是，与此同时，她们是否也将自己暴露在了有毒金属的毒害之中呢？
Most lipsticks contain at least a trace of lead, researchers have shown. But a new study finds a wide range of brands contain as many as eight other metals, from cadmium to aluminum. Now experts are raising questions about what happens if these metals are swallowed or otherwise absorbed on a daily basis.
研究人员早已证明，大多数的唇膏至少都含有微量的铅。但一项新研究发现，很多品牌的唇膏中都含有镉、铝等其他八种金属。如果人们每天以吞食或其他方式吸收这些金属，将带来怎样的后果？专家们提出了如上疑问。
[Audio | Behind the Poison Pen : Deborah Blum talks to Michael Mason, deputy science editor, about her new column. Play Audio]
[音频|在“剧毒画笔”的背后：德博拉·布卢姆(Deborah Blum)与科技版的副总编迈克尔·梅森(Michael Mason)讨论其新专栏。播放音频]
“It matters because this is a chronic long-term issue, not a short-term exposure,” said Katharine Hammond, a professor of environmental health sciences at the University of California at Berkeley and the lead author of the new analysis. “We’re not saying that anyone needs to panic. We’re saying let’s not be complacent, that these are metals known to affect health.”
“这个问题十分重要，因为它涉及的是长期慢性的过程，而非对这些金属的短期接触，”这项新分析的主要作者，加州大学伯克利分校(University of California at Berkeley)的环境卫生科学教授凯瑟琳·哈蒙德(Katharine Hammond)说。“这并不代表需要人人自危，我们只是想提醒大家不能掉以轻心，因为现已确知，这些金属都会影响健康。”
The issue first came to public attention in 2007 with a report on lead contamination in lipsticks, “A Poison Kiss,” by the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics. The Food and Drug Administration published an extensive follow-up in 2011, finding traces of lead in 400 lipsticks.
2007年，安全化妆品运动联盟(Campaign for Safe Cosmetics)发表了一项关于唇膏中铅污染问题的报告《带毒的吻》(A Poison Kiss)，首次引起了公众对该问题的关注。2011年，美国食品和药品管理局(F.D.A.)发表了一项更为详尽的后续研究，表明400多种唇膏中都含有微量的铅。
Both the F.D.A. and the cosmetics industry insist that the average lead level found, just above 1 parts per million, or p.p.m., poses no real or unusual health risk. “Metals are ubiquitous,” said Linda Loretz, chief toxicologist for the Personal Care Products Council, an industry association. “And this is a very small amount, too small to be a safety issue.”
食品和药品管理局(F.D.A.)和化妆品行业都坚称研究发现的平均铅水平（略高于1p.p.m.[百万分之一]）不会造成任何异常或真正的健康风险。“金属可谓无处不在，”行业协会个人护理用品协会(Personal Care Products Council)的首席毒理学家琳达·洛伦兹(Linda Loretz)说，“而且这个含量非常低，不足以构成安全问题。”
But lead tends to accumulate in the body, noted Dr. Sean Palfrey, medical director of the lead poisoning prevention program at Boston University Medical Center. The F.D.A. itself sets a 0.1 p.p.m. safety standard for lead in candy intended for young children. “Not to mention that the C.D.C. acknowledged last year that no level of lead is really safe,” Dr. Palfrey said.
但是，波士顿大学医学中心(Boston University Medical Center)铅中毒预防项目的医务主任肖恩·帕尔弗里博士(Sean Palfrey)指出，铅会在体内积蓄。食品和药品管理局自己就将幼儿糖果中铅含量的安全标准设为0.1p.p.m.。“更何况，疾病预防和控制中心(C.D.C.)去年承认，任何水平的铅都称不上‘真正安全’，”帕尔弗里博士补充道。
And lead may not be the only concern. Dr. Hammond’s new study, published in May in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, found traces of cadmium, cobalt, aluminum, titanium, manganese, chromium, copper and nickel in 24 lip glosses and eight lipstick brands. The researchers picked the products because they were favored by teenagers at a community health center in Oakland, Calif. The girls reported reapplying lipsticks or glosses as often as 24 times a day.
而且，铅可能并不是唯一令人担忧的问题。哈蒙德博士五月发表于《环境与健康展望杂志》(Environmental Health Perspectives)上的新研究发现，24个品牌的唇彩和八个品牌的唇膏中都含有微量的镉、钴、铝、钛、锰，铬、铜和镍。研究人员之所以选择这些产品，是因为在加州奥克兰市的一家社区卫生服务中心中，它们最受青少年的青睐。据报告，女孩们每天反复涂抹唇膏或唇彩的次数可达24次之多。
Aluminum, chromium and manganese registered the highest concentrations over all, Dr. Hammond and her colleagues found. The average concentration of aluminum in the lip products, for instance, topped 5,000 p.p.m.; concentrations of lead averaged 0.359 p.p.m.
哈蒙德博士和她的同事发现，在上述各种金属中，铝、铬和锰的浓度最高。例如，在唇妆产品中，铝的平均浓度超过了5000p.p.m；铅的平均浓度为0.359p.p.m.。
Aluminum is added to lipsticks as a stabilizer, said Ms. Loretz: “It keeps colors from bleeding.” Titanium oxide is used as a whitening agent, softening reds into pinks. Both uses are approved by the F.D.A. But all of the other metals noted by Dr. Hammond are probably unwanted contaminants, Ms. Loretz said.
唇膏中添加铝是作为稳定剂，洛伦兹女士说：“它可以防止唇膏的颜色弥散。”钛氧化物则用作增白剂，将红色调至较为柔和的粉色。这两种用途都经过了食品和药品管理局的批准。但洛伦兹女士表示，哈蒙德博士所列举的所有其他金属很可能都是不必要的污染物。
For example, manufacturers often use glittery, microscopic flakes of mica, a naturally occurring mineral formation, to add shine to lip gloss. Mica routinely contains such metals as lead, manganese, chromium and aluminum. And there is some indication that more intense lipstick colors may carry a bigger metallic load because of contamination in pigments.
例如，制造商经常使用质地为云母（一种天然形成的矿物）的微小亮片来增加唇彩的光泽。云母中通常含有铅、锰、铬、铝等金属。还有一些迹象表明，由于色素中的污染，在色彩较为浓郁的唇膏中，金属含量可能较大。
In the F.D.A.’s 2011 analysis, the highest lead reading was found in a deep floral pink lipstick and the lowest in a neutral lip balm. A European study found that brown lipstick tended to be highest in lead, while researchers in Saudi Arabia reported that dark colors averaged 8.9 p.p.m. of lead, compared with 0.37 p.p.m. in light-colored lipsticks.
食品和药品管理局2011年的分析显示，深粉色唇膏中的铅含量最高，无色润唇膏中最低。欧洲的一项研究发现，棕色唇膏中的铅往往最高，而沙特阿拉伯的研究人员则报告，深色唇膏的平均铅含量为8.9p.p.m.，相比之下，在浅色唇膏中则为0.37p.p.m.。
Still, there remains a wide range of metal concentrations across colors and brands. To Dr. Palfrey, this suggests that cosmetic companies are able to control metal content when they choose. “It shouldn’t be a huge step for manufacturers to take out trace amounts of metals in a situation where they don’t know and we don’t know what’s safe for people who use them,” he said.
此外，不同颜色和品牌的唇膏中的金属浓度也相差迥异。在帕尔弗里博士看来，这表明只要化妆品公司愿意，本来是可以控制产品中的金属含量的。“目前制造商和科学界都无法确定对消费者而言，化妆品中金属的安全水平为何，在此情况下，要求制造商们去除产品中的微量金属成分应该也不算是强人所难，”他说。
Some metals are undoubtedly absorbed through mucosal tissues in the mouth, Dr. Palfrey added. And people do swallow lipstick, one reason that it’s so often reapplied. Given the continued debate about how much is absorbed, everyone — including the cosmetics industry — is pushing the F.D.A. to study the issue further.
帕尔弗里博士补充道，有些金属无疑可通过口腔黏膜组织被人体吸收。而且人们的确会将唇膏吃下去，这也是需要频繁补妆的原因之一。鉴于人们一直对人体吸收量的多少争论不休，每个人——包括化妆品行业——都在督促食品和药品管理局对这一问题进行进一步的研究。
In the meantime, Dr. Hammond recommends that consumers take a common-sense approach to cosmetics. For starters, don’t let young children play with lipstick.
与此同时，哈蒙德博士建议，消费者应具备化妆品使用常识。首先，不要让幼儿玩唇膏。
“Treat it like something dangerous, because if they eat it we are taking about a comparatively large level of metals going into a small body,” she said.
“要将它作为危险物品来对待，因为一旦幼儿误食唇膏，他们小小的身体内摄入的金属含量相对就较高，”她说。
And be cautious about how often you reapply that shimmering color, Dr. Hammond added. Given the uncertainties, two or three times a day is all that beauty can reasonably demand.
另外，请注意您使用炫闪色唇膏时的补妆频率，哈蒙德博士补充道。考虑到存在一些不确定性，每天补妆两三次应已足以满足美容的合理需求。