Philip W. Schiller, Apple's vice president for marketing, strode across the stage of the California Theater in San Jose last week trumpeting the virtues of new Apple products. As he caressed the side of the latest iMac personal computer, he noted how thin it was - five millimeters, 80 percent thinner than the last one. Then he said, with an air of surprise, as if he'd just thought of it: "Isn't it amazing how something new makes the previous thing instantly look old?"
上周，在圣何塞的加利福尼亚剧场(California Theater)，苹果营销副总裁菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)在讲台上来回踱着步，鼓吹苹果新产品的种种优点。他抚摸着最新款iMac个人电脑的侧边，向大家展示它有多么薄——5毫米，厚度仅为前一款iMac的五分之一。接着，他说，“每次推出新款，之前那一款就立刻显得老旧了，这难道不是很神奇吗？”口气中带着惊讶，好像是刚刚想到这一点似的。
Umm, yes, Mr. Schiller, you design your products that way. It's part of a strategy that Apple has perfected. How else can the company persuade people to replace their perfectly fine iPhone, iPad, iMac and iEverything else year after year?
呃，是的，席勒先生，你们就是那样设计产品的。这也是苹果最擅长的。此外，苹果公司还能通过什么方法说服人们，让他们年复一年地淘汰掉他们完全没有问题的iPhone、iPad、iMac和其他所有i字头的产品呢？
In the past, electronics makers could convince consumers that the design was different, because it actually was. The first iMac, for example, was a blue bubble. Then it looked like a desk lamp, and now it's a rectangular sheet of glass with the electronics hidden behind it. The iPod designs changed, too, over time, before they became progressively smaller sheets of glass.
过去，电子产品生产商能让消费者相信产品的设计发生了变化，因为他们的设计真的有变化。比如，第一代iMac像一个蓝色的气泡。后来的设计，像一只台灯。现在，它是一片长方形的玻璃，电子元件隐藏其中。iPod的设计也经历了演变，后来才越变越小，变成了小巧玲珑的玻璃片。
Certainly makers add features like better cameras or tweak the software - Siri and Passbook on the iPhone are examples of that for Apple - to persuade people to upgrade. But in the last few years, consumer electronics have started to share one characteristic, no matter who makes them: they're all rectangles. Now, companies like Apple, Amazon, Microsoft and Google need to persuade consumers to buy new rectangles once a year.
当然，生产商也给产品添加了一些新性能，比如安装了更高配置的相机，或者对软件进行改善——苹果iPhone上的Siri和Passbook就是这样的例子——以说服人们更新换代。但过去几年，所有电子消费品都开始趋同：它们都是矩形的。现在，苹果、亚马逊(Amazon)、微软(Microsoft)和谷歌(Google)等公司要说服消费者，每年买一个新款的长方块。
"This phenomenon happened to the TV manufacturers a few years ago. They all started to look the same: flat panels on a wall," said Donald A. Norman, author of "The Design of Everyday Things."
“几年前，电视生产行业也出现了同样的现象。电视机开始看上去都一样：都是在墙上的一个平板，” 《设计心理学》作者唐纳德·诺曼(Donald Norman)说。
The consequences for manufacturers were disastrous. "Customers no longer had to buy the higher-end Sony model; instead, they could get the cheaper, Chinese one," Mr. Norman said. "This is what today's companies are scared of. Turn off the screen on a smartphone or tablet and they look identical. They're just rectangles."
这给生产商带来了极为严重的后果。“消费者不必再购买高端的索尼产品了；相反，他们可以去买更便宜的，中国的产品，”诺曼说，“这就是现在的公司所惧怕的。把一个智能手机或一台平板电脑的屏幕关掉，它们看上去都一样。只是长方形而已。”
Each year, Apple and other companies seem to put those rectangles in a vise, flatten them slightly, alter the exterior dimensions and showcase them as the next big, or little, thing. (Apple did not comment on its design strategy.)
每年，苹果和其他公司就好像把这些矩形放在台钳里，稍微再压平一些，改变一下外形尺寸，然后就宣称它们是新一代伟大或者小巧的产品。（苹果没有对其设计策略置评。）
This wasn't always the case. As a child I remember exploring my father's Minolta film camera - a camera from the mid-1950s that was given to him by his father. Although film cameras are now for the most part obsolete, you can bet that camera can still take 36 pictures without a hitch.
但并非一直以来都是这样。我还记得自己小时候鼓捣父亲的美能达(Minolta)胶片相机——那部相机产于20世纪50年代，是我的爷爷给他的。尽管现在胶片相机差不多已经过时，但我敢保证，那部相机仍然能连续拍36张照片，不出任何故障。
Yet can you imagine, 10 years from now, someone handing a child an iPad Mini, the latest Apple gadget? They would scoff, just as people do today when they see an older - two or three years old - version of the iPhone.
但是，你能想象10年后，有人把苹果现在最新款的iPad Mini送给孩子吗？那时的孩子们，一定会嗤之以鼻，就像现在人们看到两三年的老版iPhone一样。
There is a term for all of this: "planned obsolescence," which was popularized in the 1950s by Brooks Stevens, an industrial designer who specialized in making new cars. Briskly adopted by postwar consumer goods industries, the strategy coaxed Americans to sell their 1955 Cadillacs for the 1956 Cadillacs with their pronounced tail fins, and then the 1957s with even more exaggerated fins, and then '58s, '59s and so on.
所有这些可以用一个概念来概括，就是“计划性淘汰”。20世纪50年代，因为工业设计师布鲁克斯·史蒂文斯(Brooks Stevens)，这个概念广为流传。他专门做汽车设计。“计划性淘汰”策略很快被战后消费品生产行业接受，成功地说服美国人卖掉他们1955年的凯迪拉克(Cadillac)，去买有着突出鱼鳍车尾的1956年凯迪拉克，然后就是有着更夸张鱼鳍车尾的1957年凯迪拉克，接着是58年的、59年的，不断更新。
Mr. Stevens's term was often misinterpreted as meaning things were designed to fall apart on a regular schedule. But he believed that true upgrades and design changes would make people want to buy the latest thing. That still holds true in this era, when consumers are supposedly wary of the hucksterism of manufacturers. If you don't upgrade to the latest iPhone or iPad, you fear you may look dated and clueless, even though the rational part of your brain says, "This is a perfectly fine, useful device."
史蒂文斯提出的这一概念经常被理解错，认为它指的是，一些东西被故意设计为过一段时间就会坏。但是，史蒂文斯认为，真正意义上的产品升级和设计的改变会使人们想要购买最新款。如今，消费者似乎应该已经对制造商的推销花招有所戒备了，可是史蒂文斯的理论仍然成立。如果不买最新的iPhone和iPad，你会担心自己看上去落伍了，虽然你的理智告诉你，“这个设备仍然可以用，完全没有问题。”
Consumer electronics companies, Mr. Norman noted, have adopted the same marketing techniques the automobile industry perfected decades ago. Introduce fancy upgrades to the top and then, each year, push them down to lower-tiered products. This way, customers on every level feel the need to buy a newer version. "This is an old-time trick - they're not inventing anything new," he said. "Yet it's to the detriment of the consumer and the environment, but perhaps to the betterment of the stockholder."
诺曼指出，电子消费品公司采用了汽车行业几十年前运用到极致了的营销策略。推出精致的高端产品，然后，每年不断推陈出新，把原有产品推向低端。这样一来，每一层级消费水平的消费者都觉得有必要买一个新款产品。“这是老把戏了——并不是什么新的策略，”史蒂文斯说，“不过这不利于消费者和环境，但也许符合股东的利益。”
He added: "For Apple, you forgot the other trick: change the plugs!" While the rest of the electronics industry has adopted micro-USB ports, Apple just changed the proprietary ports and plugs on all of its latest devices - laptops, iPads and iPhones included.
史蒂文斯补充道，“至于苹果，你可能忘了它还有另外一个把戏：改变接口！”电子产业的其他公司都已采用了微型USB接口，苹果却对所有新产品上的专用接口和插头进行了改变——包括笔记本电脑、iPad和iPhone。
The documentary, "The Light Bulb Conspiracy," showcased how past industries have gone to great efforts to reduce the life span of products - often products that couldn't be designed to look different. Light bulbs were made to burn out sooner and stockings snag by early afternoon.
纪录片《灯泡阴谋》(The Light Bulb Conspiracy)就介绍了过去各行业如何费尽心机地降低产品寿命——经常是那些设计上无法做出太大改变的产品。灯泡的寿命被缩短，而丝袜穿到下午就破了。
Even so, my first iPod still plays music. My laptop from four years ago can still browse the Web. And my first e-readers can still display books.
即便这样，我第一个iPod还能播放音乐。四年前买的笔记本电脑仍能浏览网页。而我的第一个电子书还可以阅读。
It seems some consumers are starting to feel upgrade fatigue. There is no lift in PC sales, and people are owning them longer. A report by Recon Analytics, a market research firm, found that people around the globe were waiting longer to buy new mobile phones. In 2007, Americans upgraded their phones every 18.7 months on average; three years later, that number had stretched to 21.1 months. In Finland, people now wait 74.5 months to upgrade, compared with 41.8 months in 2007.
好像有些消费者已经开始对升级感到疲劳了。个人电脑的销量没有上升，人们使用一台电脑的时间也更长了。市场调查公司Recon Analytics做的一份报告显示，全球范围内，人们更换新手机的时间更长了。2007年，美国人平均每18.7个月更新一部手机；三年后，更换时间变为21.1个月。现在，在芬兰，人们要等74.5个月才会更新手机，而2007年，平均41.8月芬兰人就会换一部手机。