Millions of Americans take fish oil supplements to promote heart and vascular health. But a new analysis suggests that some consumers may not always get what they are paying for.
上百万美国人服用鱼油补充剂来改善心血管健康，但是一项新的分析显示，部分消费者买到的鱼油品质也许与价格不成正比。
The new research, carried out by a testing company called LabDoor, analyzed 30 top-selling fish oil supplements for levels of omega-3 fatty acids, a group of compounds with anti-inflammatory effects. It found that six of those products contained levels of omega-3s that were, on average, 30 percent less than stated on their labels.
这项新研究是由一家名为LabDoor的测试公司进行的，这家公司选取30种最畅销的鱼油补剂，对其所含的ω−3脂肪酸——这是一组有抗炎症功效的化合物——进行分析，结果发现其中6种产品所含的ω−3脂肪酸水平，平均比标签上所标注的含量低了30%。
The research found more problems when it looked specifically at levels of two particular omega-3s that are promoted for brain and heart health: docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Tests showed that at least a dozen products contained DHA levels that were, on average, 14 percent less than listed on their packaging.
在进一步测试鱼油中所含的两种可改善大脑和心脏健康的特定ω−3脂肪酸——二十二碳六烯酸(DHA)和二十碳五烯酸(EPA)时，更多的问题暴露了出来。测试显示至少12种产品所含的DHA水平，平均比标注的含量低了14%。
According to the Nutrition Business Journal, fish oil products generated about $1.2 billion in sales in the United States last year, making them among the most popular dietary supplements on the market. But like most supplements, they are largely unregulated. Companies do not have to register their products with the Food and Drug Administration or provide proof that the capsules and liquids they sell contain the ingredients on their labels and the doses advertised.
根据《营养产业期刊》(Nutrition Business Journal)报道，去年鱼油在美国的销售额达到12亿美元，是市面上最受欢迎的膳食补剂产品之一。但跟大部分补充剂一样，鱼油普遍未受到监管。厂商不需要向食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)登记自己的产品，也不需要提供证据证明销售的胶囊或液体制剂所含的成份与标签和广告上宣称的一致。
Researchers and health officials say that mislabeling is a frequent problem in the supplement industry.
研究人员和卫生官员说，在补剂业，虚假标签是常见问题。
A number of studies suggest that regular fish consumption is protective against heart disease, and some research suggests it may lower the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and other chronic conditions as well. The American Heart Association recommends that Americans eat two servings a week of fatty fish rich in omega-3 fatty acids, and it points to studies showing that fish oil supplements help reduce the rate of cardiac events in people with cardiovascular disease.
一些研究显示，定期吃鱼可防止发生心脏疾病，还有些研究显示，它可能会降低出现阿尔茨海默症和其他慢性疾病的危险。美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)推荐美国人每周吃两份富含ω−3脂肪酸的多脂鱼，并指出有研究证明，鱼油补充剂有益于降低患心血管病的人群出现心脏危险事件的机率。
Omega-3s are also essential for brain and nervous system health, said Dr. Joseph C. Maroon, a neurosurgeon at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and the author of “Fish Oil: The Natural Anti-Inflammatory.” Eating fatty fish high in omega-3s and low in mercury and other contaminants, like sardines and wild salmon, is ideal, he said, but fish oil supplements can be an alternative.
匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)医学中心的神经外科医生约瑟夫·马如恩(Joseph C. Maroon)著有《鱼油：天然消炎药》一书，他指出，ω−3脂肪酸对于大脑和神经系统的健康同样至关重要。他介绍说，吃富含ω−3脂肪酸、同时含汞和其他污染物较少的多脂鱼，比如沙丁鱼和野生三文鱼最为理想，但鱼油补品也是种选项。
“I think it’s one of the most important supplements people can take,” said Dr. Maroon, who is also chair of the medical advisory board for GNC, the nation’s largest specialty retailer of dietary supplements. “The omega-3 fatty acids are essential for so many functions in the body.”
“我认为这应该属于人们应当服用的最重要的补充剂，”马如恩说，“ω−3脂肪酸对于人体的诸多功能都十分关键。”马如恩同时是美国最大型的膳食补充剂专业零售商GNC的医学顾问委员会主席。
But research on fish oil has not been conclusive. A large meta-analysis of high quality clinical trials published in 2012 found that purified fish oil supplements did not appear to help people with a history of heart disease, though some experts questioned whether the patients studied had been taking the pills long enough to see an effect. Other research has raised questions about whether high levels of omega-3s may raise the risk of prostate cancer.
但是，对于鱼油的研究并没有盖棺论定。2012年发表的一项对高质量临床试验的荟萃分析发现，提纯鱼油补剂看来对有心脏病史的人并没有帮助，不过一些专家指出，受试的病人或许服用鱼油胶囊的时间还不够长，因此导致其效用未能显现出来。还有些研究则提出了疑问，表示服用高剂量的ω−3脂肪酸有可能提高患前列腺癌的危险。
In the current analysis, researchers carried out detailed tests to assess the supplements’ omega-3 content, their levels of mercury, and the extent to which they showed any signs of rancidity or deterioration. Samples of each product were either purchased online on sites like Amazon or bought off the shelves in stores and tested immediately.
在这项成分测试中，研究人员进行了细致的试验，分析补品中的ω−3含量、所含汞的水平，以及是否出现了酸败或变质的任何迹象。所有产品样本均购自像亚马逊(Amazon)这样的网站，或从商店里直接购得，并在到货后立刻进行测试。
Then they were ranked according to quality and value. Among the companies whose supplements ranked highly were Nordic Naturals, Axis Labs and Nature Made. LabDoor, which is funded in part by the investor Mark Cuban and by Rock Health, a nonprofit digital health incubator, posted its full list of rankings and results on its website.
接着，研究人员根据质量与价格对所有产品进行了评级。产品质量评分最高的公司包括挪帝克(Nordic Naturals)、Axis Labs和莱萃美(Nature Made)。进行测试的LabDoor将所有评分列表和结果贴在了网站上，这家公司得到了投资人马克·库班(Mark Cuban)和非营利数码健康孵化器“岩石健康”(Rock Health)的部分资金支持。
The company found that several of the products it tested compared favorably to Lovaza, the prescription fish oil marketed by GlaxoSmithKline that can cost hundreds of dollars for a one-month supply. Lovaza is a prescription drug held to strict regulations, so it is subjected to regular quality control tests. But some of the products analyzed by LabDoor contained similar or greater levels of omega-3s at a fraction of the cost.
这家公司还发现，一些鱼油补充剂产品相比葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)生产的处方鱼油胶囊Lovaza更有优势，作为处方药，它需要接受严格监管，须通过定期的品质控制检测，每月购买费用可达几百美元。但LabDoor分析的一些产品中所含的ω−3脂肪酸含量与Lovaza类似或者更高，而价格只有它的一个零头。
The analysis showed, however, that mislabeling was not uncommon, affecting at least a third of the supplements tested. One of the  products had only half the amount of DHA advertised, for example, and another contained only two thirds, said Neil Thanedar, the chief executive of LabDoor. There were also several products that did not mention DHA content on their labels at all.
不过研究显示，虚假标签的现象并不罕见，涉及到至少三分之一所调查的补剂产品。LabDoor的首席执行官尼尔·塞尼达(Neil Thanedar)介绍说，其中一个产品中所含的DHA只有广告宣称的一半，还有一种则只有三分之二。有几种产品根本没在商品标签上注明DHA含量。
As for heavy metals, the study found that all of the products tested contained only very low levels of mercury, ranging from one to six parts per billion per serving. That range is far below the upper safety limit of 100 parts per billion set by the Global Organization for EPA and DHA Omega-3s, or GOED, an industry trade group.
至于重金属含量，研究发现所有产品中含有的汞都极低，含量为每份1-6ppb（每个ppb为10亿分之一），这个深度远低于行业贸易组织“EPA和DHA ω−3脂肪酸全球组织”（Global Organization for EPA and DHA Omega-3s，简称GOED）所定的100ppb的安全上限。
The data provide a good starting point for people considering taking a fish oil supplement, said Philip Gregory, the editor in chief of Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database, which evaluates evidence on dietary supplements. But much of the recent evidence on the supplements has been negative, he said, and it is not clear that most people gain anything from taking them.
据评估膳食补剂证据的天然药物数据库(Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database)总编菲利浦·格里高利(Philip Gregory)说，对于那些打算开始服用鱼油补剂的人来说，数据提供了一个很好的起点。但他说，关于补充剂的大部分近期证据都是负面的，现在也并不清楚人们服用这种补品是否真能取得任何收益。
“It may be that for people with heart disease who are already well treated with statins or high blood pressure medication, fish oil supplements may not offer any additional benefit,” he said. “Similarly, for those who already consume fish in their diet, adding a supplement probably doesn’t offer additional benefit.”
“也许是因为那些有心脏病病史的人已经得到了他汀类药物的妥善治疗，或者高血药已经得以控制，这样一来鱼油补剂也许就不能带来额外的效益，”他说：“同样的道理，如果人们已经常常吃海鱼，再另外吃补品也没有更大的用处。”
Another caveat applies to the testing itself. Dr. Gregory said that the new research provides “a snapshot in time,” which may not be a reliable indicator of the overall quality of a line of supplements. Dr. Gregory recommends that consumers check with the USP Dietary Supplement Verification program, a nonprofit group that does regular spot checks on certain supplements and provides a seal to the ones that meet its requirements. Products that carry the seal are widely considered high quality. But the program is voluntary, and as a result many supplement makers do not take part in it.
另外，对于这项测试本身也有需要注意的地方。格里高利博士说，新的研究是“管中窥豹”，或许它无法可靠地指示鱼油补剂产品的整体质量。格里高利建议消费者参考USP膳食补充剂验证体系(USP Dietary Supplement Verification program)，这是一个非营利组织，会定期对特定补剂进行抽查，并对达到其标准的产品加盖认证标签。人们普遍认为持有该组织标签的产品质量较高。但这个项目是自愿加入的，因此很多补剂生产厂商并未参加。