Cat owners speak to their cats, attribute many complex emotions to them and chide them when they bring small dead rodents into the house. People don’t pause to ask what is going on in the mind of the cat during these interactions, and perhaps that’s just as well. The role of a pet is to be relentlessly anthropomorphized.
猫的主人对他们的猫说话，认为它们具有多种复杂的情感，当它们把啮齿类动物的小尸体带回家时又斥责它们。人们不会停下来去问，猫在这种互动过程中，脑子里到底都在想些什么；也许这样也好。毕竟宠物所扮演的角色就是被主人没完没了地人格化。
But for any who may wonder what their feline companions are really thinking, “Cat Sense,” by John Bradshaw, provides the best answers that science can give for the time being.
但如果你确实想知道自己的猫科伴侣们的真实想法，约翰·布罗德肖(John Bradshaw)的《猫的感知》(Cat Sense)一书提供了科学到目前为止所能提供的最好答案。
Dr. Bradshaw, a biologist at the University of Bristol in England, has studied animal behavior and cats in particular for the last 30 years. The starting point of his analysis is that cats are still essentially wild animals. They wandered into our encampments when we first started to store harvested grains, which attracted mice.
布罗德肖博士是英格兰布里斯托尔大学的生物学家，最近30年来一直研究动物行为，特别是猫的行为。他分析的出发点是：猫从本质上来说仍然是一种野生动物。当人类最早开始储藏收获的谷物时，它们便游荡到我们的领地，因为谷物能吸引老鼠。
Unlike dogs, which have been greatly changed by domestication from their wolf ancestor, cats have almost never been bred for a purpose. They caught mice well enough, and their kittens made attractive companions. So cats have stayed much the same, with any evolutionary trend toward domestication constrained by frequent interbreeding with wild cats.
狗类在驯化过程中被人类改变了很多，和它们的狼祖先已经大大不同，猫却并非如此，它们几乎没有被人类刻意繁育过。它们能抓老鼠已经很好，小猫咪又是讨人喜欢的伙伴。所以猫一直保持着原貌，与野猫的频繁杂交阻碍了它们向家养动物进化的趋势。
To this day the population of domestic cats is maintained in a semiferal state by the practice of neutering. About the only males available for domestic female cats to breed with are the wildest and least people-friendly tomcats who have escaped into the feral cat population. Some 85 percent of all cat matings, Dr. Bradshaw writes, are arranged by cats themselves, meaning with feral cats.
如今，由于阉猫做法盛行，家猫这一种群仍保持着半野生的状态。因为能令家养母猫怀孕的，都是那些最难控制，以及和人类最不亲近的在野猫世界内逃窜的公猫。布罗德肖写道，猫类的交配有85%是它们自行安排的，也就是与野猫进行交配。
The result is that when cats interact with people, they have to rely almost entirely on their natural social behaviors, which are not highly developed. The strongest social bond is between a mother and her kittens. Kittens purr as a signal to their mothers to stay still and feed them, and they knead their mother’s belly to keep the milk flowing.
因此，当猫和人类互动时，它们只能完全依靠天生的、并不十分发达的社交行为。猫类之中最强的社会联系就是母猫和幼崽之间的联系。幼猫打呼噜是一种信号，示意母猫静止不动，给它们喂奶；与此同时，它们揉捏母亲的肚子，帮助奶水持续流出来。
Also in the cat behavioral repertory are grooming and rubbing against known cats. When cats rub up against you or invite their head to be stroked, they are treating you as a nonhostile cat. An upright tail is a greeting sign between cats, and “is probably the clearest way cats show their affection for us,” Dr. Bradshaw writes.
猫的各种行为中还包括为熟识的猫舔毛和互蹭身体。猫蹭你是在邀你抚摸它们的头，这是把你当做一只没有敌意的猫。竖起尾巴是猫之间表示欢迎的信号，“或许是猫对我们表示好感的最清晰的方式，”布罗德肖写道。
One of the cat behaviors most disturbing to owners is their habit of bringing dead animals into the house. My cat Hodge, a young tabby, regularly deposits dead shrews and mice on the kitchen floor, as well as abandoned gloves, to which he has taken an inexplicable liking.
把小动物的死尸带回家里是猫最令主人不安的行为之一。我的猫霍奇是只年轻的花斑猫，他经常把地鼠和老鼠的尸体丢在厨房的地板上，另外还有旧手套，他不知为什么就是喜欢这种东西。
Minerva, a plump but acrobatic ginger cat, specializes in flying creatures. She brings in butterflies, dragonflies, cicadas and the occasional bat. The dragonflies and bats she probably found already dead and brought in for show. But I have seen her leap into the air to claw down butterflies, greatly to my distress.
密涅瓦是一只黄猫，虽然肥胖却身手矫健，擅长捕捉飞翔的动物。她往家里带回过蝴蝶、蜻蜓和知了，有时还会带回蝙蝠。蜻蜓和蝙蝠可能是已经死了才被她发现，带回来只是为了炫耀。但我曾亲眼看见她飞身而起，扑住空中的蝴蝶，这令我非常难过。
Many people explain away such wasteful killing with the assumption that the cats view their owners as kittens who need to be fed. Dr. Bradshaw gives this explanation short shrift.
许多人都说这种无用的杀戮是因为猫觉得它们的主人是小猫，需要被喂食。布罗德肖没有理会这种说法。
Cats bring their prey into the house, he says, as a side effect of their hunting strategy, which is basically to sniff out the scent marks that mice and other rodents leave to communicate with one another. The cats just sit downwind of such marks and wait for the rodents to show up. Because several cats may congregate where such marks are abundant, it’s better to take any prey to a safe place where it can be eaten in peace.
他说，猫的狩猎策略是寻找老鼠或其他啮齿类动物与同类联系时散发的气味痕迹，把猎物带进家来则是这种策略的副产品。猫会坐在这种气味源头的下风处，等待啮齿类动物出现。因为这种气味源头特别丰富的地方会有其他猫聚集，所以最好还是把猎物带到安全的地点，可以安静地进食。
But once cats have taken a catch into their house, only then do they remember that canned cat food tastes so much better, so the freshly killed rodent is dumped on the floor, Dr. Bradshaw says. (But, if I may presume to question his expert explanation, why then did my cats leave none of their dead offerings when I went away for a week last month?)
但是猫一旦把猎物带回家来，才会想起还是猫罐头更好吃，所以新鲜宰杀的猎物就被丢在地上，布罗德肖这样说（但是，假如我可以放胆质疑专家意见的话，为什么上个月我离家一星期这段时间里，我的猫们没有“进贡”任何尸体呢？）
As for cats’ attitudes toward their owners, Dr. Bradshaw thinks they regard them not as kittens but as a combination of mother-substitutes and larger, nonhostile cats.
至于猫对主人们的态度，布罗德肖认为，它们不是把主人当成小猫，而是把他们当成“母亲的替代品”与“没有敌意的大猫”的结合。
I found the book’s sections on the evolution and archaeology of cats a little long-winded, and the writing in general is clear but stodgy in places. That aside, “Cat Sense” will teach you much about the biology of cats that you never suspected.
我觉得这本书里关于猫类进化和考古的部分有点冗长，文笔总的来说很清晰，但有些地方略嫌古板。除此之外，你可以从《猫的感知》中学到很多关于猫的生物学知识，大大出乎你的意料。