THINK of all the people with whom you interact during the course of a day, week, month and year. The many souls with whom you might exchange a greeting or give a warm embrace; engage in chitchat or have a deeper conversation. All those who, by some accident of fate, inhabit your world. And then ask yourself who among them are your friends — your true friends. Recent research indicates that only about half of perceived friendships are mutual. That is, someone you think is your friend might not be so keen on you. Or, vice versa, as when someone you feel you hardly know claims you as a bestie.
想想所有那些你与之会在一天、一周、一月和一年内有所互动的人。那些你可能与他们打过招呼或热情拥抱过的灵魂；那些你与之闲聊过或有更深入交流的灵魂。所有那些因缘际会出现在你生活里的人。然后，问问自己，其中哪些是你的朋友——真正的朋友。最近的研究显示，我们所认为的朋友只有大约一半是相互的。也就是说，有些人你认为是朋友，但人家或许对你没那么多兴趣。或者反过来，有些你几乎不怎么了解的人却会称你为挚友。
It’s a startling finding that has prompted much discussion among psychologists, neuroscientists, organizational behavior experts, sociologists and philosophers. Some blame human beings’ basic optimism, if not egocentrism, for the disconnect between perceived and actual friendships. Others point to a misunderstanding of the very notion of friendship in an age when “friend” is used as a verb, and social inclusion and exclusion are as easy as a swipe or a tap on a smartphone screen. It’s a concern because the authenticity of one’s relationships has an enormous impact on one’s health and well-being.
这是一个惊人发现，已经在心理学家、神经学家或组织行为专家、社会学家和哲学家中引发了许多讨论。一些人将感知的和真实的友情之间的落差归咎于人类内在的乐观倾向，如果说它不属于自我中心的话。其他人则指出，是因为在一个“朋友”被用作动词、产生或断开社交关系就像敲击一下智能手机屏幕那么简单的年代，人们对友谊这个概念本身产生了不同的理解。这引发了担忧，因为关系的真实性对人们的健康与安乐有着非常巨大的影响。
“People don’t like to hear that the people they think of as friends don’t name them as friends,” said Alex Pentland, a computational social science researcher at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and co-author of a recent study published in the PLOS One journal titled “Are You Your Friends’ Friend? Poor Perception of Friendship Ties Limits the Ability to Promote Behavioral Change.”
“人们不喜欢听到，在他们看来是朋友的人不把他们当作朋友，”麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的计算社会科学研究员亚历克斯·彭特兰(Alex Pentland)说。此人最近与人在《公共科学图书馆：综合》(PLoS ONE)杂志上联合发表了一篇论文，名为《你是你朋友的朋友吗？对友情关系认知不足，会限制促进行为改变的能力》(Are You Your Friends’ Friend? Poor Perception of Friendship Ties Limits the Ability to Promote Behavioral Change)。
The study analyzed friendship ties among 84 subjects (ages 23 to 38) in a business management class by asking them to rank one another on a five-point continuum of closeness from “I don’t know this person” to “One of my best friends.” The feelings were mutual 53 percent of the time while the expectation of reciprocity was pegged at 94 percent. This is consistent with data from several other friendship studies conducted over the past decade, encompassing more than 92,000 subjects, in which the reciprocity rates ranged from 34 to 53 percent.
这项研究以一个商业管理课程的84名学生为实验对象（年龄在23至38岁之间），分析了他们的友谊关系。方式是让他们以五分制给彼此打分，从最低的“我不认识这个人”到“我最好的朋友之一”。其中，有53%的几率双方的感觉是对等的，而认为彼此是朋友的预期却高达94%。这与过去十年里进行的其他几项有关友谊的研究结果是一致的，那几项研究包含了超过9.2万个研究对象，显示出彼此认知对等的几率在34%到53%之间。
Pentland said it could be that “the possibility of nonreciprocal friendship challenges one’s self-image.” But the problem may have more to do with confusion over what friendship is. Ask people to define friendship — even researchers like Pentland who study it — and you’ll get an uncomfortable silence followed by “er” or “um.”
彭特兰表示，可能是“单向的友谊这种可能性对一个人的自我形象形成了挑战”。不过，这个问题更多地可能与对友谊的认知混乱有关。问问人们如何定义友谊，对方往往首先会出现一段让人不太舒服的沉默，然后会发出“嗯”或“呃”的声音。连彭特兰等研究这个问题的研究人员也是如此。
“Friendship is difficult to describe,” said Alexander Nehamas, a professor of philosophy at Princeton, who in his latest book, “On Friendship,” spends almost 300 pages trying to do just that. “It’s easier to say what friendship is not and, foremost, it is not instrumental.”
“友谊是很难描述的，”普林斯顿大学(Princeton)哲学教授亚历山大·内阿马(Alexander Nehamas)在他最近的著作《有关友谊》(On Friendship)中说。他用了将近300页的篇幅就为讲清楚这个问题。“说友谊不是什么更加容易，首先，它不是工具性的。”
It is not a means to obtain higher status, wangle an invitation to someone’s vacation home or simply escape your own boredom. Rather, Nehamas said, friendship is more like beauty or art, which kindles something deep within us and is “appreciated for its own sake.”
它不是一种获得更高地位、设法获邀进入某人的度假屋或单纯逃离自身的无聊的工具。内阿马表示，友谊更像美或艺术，它可以点燃我们内心深处的一些东西，并“纯粹因其自身而被欣赏”。
Because time is limited, so, too, is the number of friends you can have, according to the work of British evolutionary psychologist Robin I.M. Dunbar. He describes layers of friendship, where the topmost layer consists of only one or two people, say a spouse and best friend with whom you are most intimate and interact daily. The next layer can accommodate at most four people for whom you have great affinity, affection and concern and who require weekly attention to maintain. Out from there, the tiers contain more casual friends with whom you invest less time and tend to have a less profound and more tenuous connection. Without consistent contact, they easily fall into the realm of acquaintance. You may be friendly with them but they aren’t friends.
在英国进化心理学家罗宾·I·M·邓巴(Robin I.M. Dunbar)看来，因为每个人的时间有限，所以你可以拥有的朋友的数量也是有限的。他描述了多个层次的友谊，其中最高的一层只有一两人，比如你的配偶，比如与你关系最密切、每天都有联系的最要好的朋友。第二层最多可以容纳四人，你与他们关系十分亲密，你非常喜欢和关心他们，会每周花时间维护关系。以下的层级包括更随意一些的朋友，你在他们身上投入的时间更少，你们之间的关系往往也没那么深，会更脆弱。如果不持续地联系，会很容易落入泛泛之交。你可能与他们关系友好，但他们不是朋友。
“There is a limited amount of time and emotional capital we can distribute, so we only have five slots for the most intense type of relationship,” Dunbar said. “People may say they have more than five but you can be pretty sure they are not high-quality friendships.”
“我们可以用来分配的时间和情感资本都是有限的，所以我们只有五个位置留给关系最紧密的类型，”邓巴说。“人们可能会说，他们有不止五个这样的朋友，但你可以很肯定地讲，那不会是高质量的友情。”
Such boasting implies they have soul mates to spare in a culture where we are taught that leaning on someone is a sign of weakness and power is not letting others affect you. But friendship requires the vulnerability of caring as well as revealing things about yourself that don’t match the polished image in your Facebook profile or Instagram feed, said Nehamas at Princeton. Trusting that your bond will continue, and might even be strengthened, despite your shortcomings and inevitable misfortunes, he said, is a risk many aren’t willing to take.
在一个我们被教导依靠一个人是软弱的表现，不让其他人影响你才显得有力量的文化里，这样的吹嘘暗示他们的挚友多得用不过来。不过，普林斯顿大学的内阿马表示，友谊会让一个人展现自己在乎什么这个脆弱之处，还会暴露一些与你的Facebook主页和Instagram信息中呈现的光鲜形象不符的东西。他说许多人不愿承担这样一种风险，即相信就算暴露了自己的缺点和难免出现的糗事，你们的关系还会持续，甚至会得到加强。
According to medical experts, playing it safe by engaging in shallow, unfulfilling or nonreciprocal relationships has physical repercussions. Not only do the resulting feelings of loneliness and isolation increase the risk of death as much as smoking, alcoholism and obesity; you may also lose tone, or function, in the so-called smart vagus nerve, which brain researchers think allows us to be in intimate, supportive and reciprocal relationships in the first place.
医学专家表示，通过建立浅层次、差强人意或单向的关系避免这种风险，会给你的身体带来不良影响。这类关系引发的孤独与孤立感觉，会增加死亡的风险，并且不亚于抽烟、酗酒和过度肥胖所增加的相关几率；你可能还会失去被称为智慧的迷走神经的灵敏度或功能。大脑研究人员认为，有了这些神经，我们才能建立亲密、支持性的、双向的关系。
So it’s worth identifying who among the many people you encounter in your life are truly friends. Who makes time for you? Whose company enlivens, enriches and maybe even humbles you? Whom would you miss? Who would miss you? While there is no easy or agreed upon definition, what friendships have in common is that they shape us and create other dimensions through which to see the world. This can be for better or worse depending on whom we choose as friends. As the saying goes, “Show me your friends and I will show you who you are.”
所以，辨认你生活中遇到的那么多人哪些是真正的朋友，这是有价值的。谁会为你抽时间？哪些人的陪伴让你感觉更快活，更充实，甚至让你感到敬畏？你会想念谁？谁会想念你？尽管给友谊下定义并不容易，而且意见不一，但所有的友谊的共同之处在于，它们塑造了我们，为我们提供了其他的看世界的角度。取决于我们选哪些人成为朋友，这可以是好事，也可以是坏事。就像俗话说的，“看看你的朋友，就知道你是什么样的人。”