Will a large, prominent tub of Greek yogurt in my refrigerator get you to buy my apartment?
如果我在自家冰箱里的显眼位置摆上一大桶希腊酸奶(Greek yogurt)，这会令你想要买下我这套公寓吗？
This, and similarly insane thoughts, plagued me as I anticipated putting my co-op on the market recently. I knew from my own months of searching for an apartment in New York that opening the refrigerator you just might inherit is an essential component of the apartment-hunting process. What had me tossing and turning was what the contents of my refrigerator would say to a prospective purchaser.
类似这样疯狂的想法，让我近来倍受困扰，因为我预备把自己的合作公寓(Co-op)挂出来卖掉。我也曾有过长达数月在纽约看房子的经历，所以很清楚人们在找房的过程中，把未来住所的电冰箱打开来看一看，是个很必要的步骤。而让我辗转反侧的是，我在冰箱里放的那些东西，究竟会向未来的买家透露出些什么呢？
As I lay sleepless at 4 a.m. (a k a The Fretting Hour), the curation of my refrigerator suddenly became as critical as freshly washed windows and decluttered closets. I blame a work colleague for putting this thought into my head, when she casually mentioned that she had purchased fancy chutney, for display purposes only, for her open house. Chutney? How had I completely overlooked the chutney question, not to mention an entire array of high-end condiments? Until then, I had relied on the high ceilings, fireplace and open views to do the heavy lifting in the sales process. I now realized I had to rethink my open-house preparation, in terms of how I was positioning the carefully constructed phony lifestyle I was selling to potential buyers.
我失眠到凌晨4点（所谓的“焦躁时间”），忽然觉得，拯救冰箱的任务变得和清洁、明亮的窗子以及不那么凌乱的衣橱一样重要了。这都要怪我的一位同事，是她把这种想法塞进我大脑里的。当时，她漫不经心地说自己刚买了一瓶不错的酸辣酱，只是为了在看房人来参观的那天，放在屋里当个摆设。酸辣酱？我怎么会完完全全忽略了酸辣酱的问题呢？更别说一整套高档调味料了。在此之前，我完全是仗着自家房子的高天花板、壁炉和开阔的视野，就想在卖房过程中把价格拔高一点。而现在，我意识到，必须重新思考我为迎接买主所做的准备了——也就是说，怎样精心打造出那种我准备兜售给潜在买家的冒牌儿生活方式。
In real life, the interior of my refrigerator looks pretty much like that of many other busy New Yorkers without children: heavy on beverages, takeout containers and teeth whitening gel; meager on produce, meats and other essential food groups. Thinking about this scenario from the perspective of the nervous buyer, I realized that my freezer contents alone had the potential to terrify and repel: vodka; century-old, virtually empty ice cream containers; more vodka, and then those mysterious foil-wrapped parcels of who-knows-what. The only vaguely wholesome item was a bag of frozen peas I once bought for potential use as an ice pack in case of a pulled back muscle or other sports injury (an extremely unlikely scenario, by the way).
在真实生活中，我在冰箱里放的东西看起来和许多生活繁忙又没有孩子的纽约客会放的一样：各类饮料、外卖餐盒和牙齿亮白啫喱占据了大部分空间；而农产品、肉食和其它基本食品则少得可怜。站在一位神经紧张的买家的角度，想象这个场景，我发现仅仅是我放在冰箱里的那些东西，就足以把他们吓跑：伏特加；看上去像放了一百年而实际上已空空如也的冰淇淋盒；更多伏特加，然后还有那些油腻腻的神秘包裹，天知道里面是些什么东西。唯一与健康食品沾边的就是一袋冻豌豆，那是我买来当作冰袋备用的，以防万一出现肌肉拉伤或是其它运动损伤（顺便说一下，这种剧情从未上演）。
The contents of a refrigerator speak volumes about the seller who’s lived in the home you are considering making your own. This, of course, makes sense. We make these snap judgments about other people all the time. Who hasn’t salivated over the fully stocked refrigerators in the impossibly perfect kitchens that appear in certain unwatchable romantic comedies? There always seems to be a complete roast turkey and a bowl of freshly prepared pasta salad, available for a late-night snack while you’re on the phone with your wisecracking but supportive best friend. Who lives like this? Do these people have food stylists on staff? Actually, it’s not that I admire the movie characters for their bounty of constantly available prepared foods. It’s that they send me into a spiral of self-loathing.
冰箱里面放的东西足以说明，你在考虑的这套房子里，原来住了一个什么样的主人。这当然是很有道理的。我们总是对别人做出轻率的判断。谁没垂涎过那种塞满了食物的冰箱呢？往往被放在一个简直完美的厨房中，通常只出现在某些浪漫得一塌糊涂的喜剧片里。似乎总会有一整只烤好的火鸡，配一大碗刚准备好的意面沙拉，让你可以一边享用丰盛夜宵，一边同“刀子嘴、豆腐心”的死党煲电话粥。可是，谁会这样过日子呀？这种人的助理团队中难不成还有个食品造型设计师吗？事实上，我倒并不是羡慕电影主人公那种锦衣玉食的生活，只是他们往往会让我陷入自怨自艾的漩涡。
In real life, of course, refrigerators are rarely that alluring. When I was a kid, ours had the same jar of maraschino cherries in it for literally decades. I actually thought it was glamorous to have maraschino cherries on hand, in case — I don’t know — anyone unexpectedly stopped by for a Shirley Temple. But I couldn’t figure out why my mother had bothered buying something she never had any intention of using. Now I know: the same reason I’ve had an almost full 15-ounce can of sesame tahini in the back of my refrigerator for an eternity. It just seemed exotic at the time of purchase. It was the kind of impulse buy that just might transform me into the type of person who regularly prepares Middle Eastern food. (That reminds me: I need to pick up phyllo dough for the open house!)
当然啦，在现实生活中，冰箱很少能有那样迷人的吸引力。在我小的时候，我家冰箱里有一罐酒浸樱桃，就那么放了几十年，一点不夸张。我当时甚至还以为，随手拿着酒浸樱桃是件很光彩的事，以防——我也不知道——有人意外登门来挑选下一个“秀兰·邓波儿”(Shirley Temple)。但我实在琢磨不出，为什么妈妈要不嫌麻烦地买回一些她完全不会去用的东西。现在我懂了：这同我家冰箱的最里面永远放着那几乎满满一听15盎司的芝麻酱，道理是一样的。只是因为购买这件东西的时候，它显得那样不同寻常。就是这种购买冲动，很有可能把我转变成那种时常烹饪点中东美食的人。（这提醒了我：我得去买点千层酥[phyllo dough，一种中东美食——译注]来招待看房的客人！）
“Over the last 16 years of showing apartments,” says Lisa Lippman, a senior vice president/director of Brown Harris Stevens, “I have seen the full range from refrigerators with only beer and Diet Coke (single guys) to meticulous moms with everything in labeled containers.” Ms. Lippman agreed that the state of one’s refrigerator is a legitimate concern, even if I was taking it to a neurotic extreme. “I find it strange when buyers do not look in other people’s refrigerators ... especially if you are going to keep that refrigerator.”
“过去16年来，我带人看了很多房子，”Brown Harris Stevens公司的高级副总裁兼总经理丽莎·李普曼(Lisa Lippman)说，“也见过各种各样的冰箱，有的冰箱里只放了啤酒和健怡可乐（单身男士），也有一丝不苟的妈妈们，在冰箱中每个容器上都贴了标签。”李普曼也同意，看看别人冰箱里的状况是个合情合理的关注点，尽管我在这件事上快要钻进牛角尖儿了。“如果买家不去看别人的冰箱，我会觉得有些奇怪……尤其如果你还打算继续留用这台冰箱的话。”
So it was out with the half-empty mustard jar. I started to obsess about stocking up on artisanal cheeses and organic nut butters that I would ordinarily not be caught dead buying. And, lest I offend any apartment-hunting locavores, nothing harvested outside of a 50-mile radius would be permitted in there.
所以，吃了一半的芥末酱已经老土了。我开始对往冰箱里储存一些手工奶酪和有机坚果酱的主意着迷不已，那些东西一般我打死也不会买。但是，为避免冒犯到任一位正在找房子的本土膳食主义者(locavore)，方圆50英里以外收割的任何东西，都不允许进我的冰箱。
Commence total artifice. In actual fact, I don’t like orange juice. I have never bought orange juice. But, yes, I found myself buying a half gallon of freshly squeezed orange juice at Zabar’s (“Gourmet Epicurean Emporium” was exactly the look I was going for) for $7.49. I also bought two of those totally adorable nine-ounce glass bottles of Ronniebrook milk. And I was particularly pleased with my casual placement of the two bottles of Champagne on the bottom shelf. You know, I like to have those handy in case I suddenly need to christen a ship or someone gets a big promotion while visiting. It was time to get a bidding war started.
诡计开始全面实施。实际上，我并不喜欢橙汁。我自己从没买过橙汁。但是，没错，我发现自己花了7.49美元（约合人民币45.89元），在Zabar’s超市（“极品美食广场”[Gourmet Epicurean Emporium]，这正是我要的样子）买了半加仑的鲜榨橙汁。我还买了那些用可爱的9盎司玻璃瓶装着的Ronniebrook牌牛奶。尤其令我满意的，是我在底层架子上随意放的那两瓶香槟。你知道的，我喜欢随时准备点香槟，以防突然需要我为一艘轮船命名，或者什么人来拜访我的时候忽然得知自己升职了。现在，就让竞价大战拉开序幕吧。
And what is more chic and decadent (and delicious) than burrata? At Citarella, I was at once enticed and revolted by the idea that a small container is available for $8. I decided to pass. There’s a very fine line between appearing cosmopolitan and actually looking like a fool. Besides, I can’t risk buyers’ thinking I have money to burn on mozzarella, unless I’m prepared to attract an array of low-ball bids. That said, I wasn’t able to resist the container of bright red watermelon chunks ($3.94) at Zabar’s. Yes, and also their black olive tapenade ($5.98), which will go into the garbage moments after the buyer’s final walk-through.
还有什么比布若达奶酪（burrata，一种意式奶酪——译注）更高雅而颓废（且美味）的呢？在Citarella商店，我立刻受到了它的诱惑，但鉴于一小盒这种奶酪要卖到8美元（约合人民币49元），又打消了这个念头。我决定放弃。在显得久经世故与实际看起来像个傻瓜之间，只有细微的一线之隔。除此之外，我也不能冒险让那些买家觉得，我是个把钱烧在意大利干酪上的家伙，除非我准备好了迎接买家提出的一堆虚低报价。也就是说，我肯定不会放过Zabar’s超市卖的鲜红的大块盒装西瓜（3.94美元，约合人民币24元）。没错，还有他们的黑橄榄酱（5.98美元，约合人民币36.59元）。一旦来看房的买家转完一圈后，这东西就可以统统扔进垃圾筒了。
In the end, my totally fake persona must have worked. The open house went smashingly, and I end up accepting a bid slightly above asking price. But there was one aspect of the staging that I hadn’t taken into consideration: the return of several interested buyers for a second or third viewing, later in the week. It didn’t occur to me that I would have to maintain the charade that I was still using these props, er, products, possibly for weeks.
最后，我这彻底伪装出来的人格特征肯定是起了作用的。接待看房者的那天过得十分愉快。我最终接受了一个比自己开价还稍高一点的报价。但是，在这出“表演”中，还是有一方面问题我没考虑周全：后来，有几个感兴趣的买家在一周之内又返回来看了第二次或第三次。而我此前却没想到自己必须要把这种伪装保持下去：这些道具，呃，产品我还要吃上好几个礼拜呢。
Which explains why I found myself pouring cupfuls of orange juice down the drain each morning, at the rate of about 12 cents per ounce.
这就是我发现自己每天早上都把满满一杯每盎司12美分（约合人民币0.74元）的橙汁倒进下水道里的缘故。