AMERICANS replace their cellphones every 22 months, junking some 150 million old phones in 2010 alone. Ever wondered what happens to all these old phones? The answer isn’t pretty.
美国人每过22个月就会更换一次手机，单单在2010年，就丢弃了1.5亿部旧手机。有没有考虑过这些旧手机的最终归宿？答案相当丑陋。
In far-flung, mostly impoverished places like Agbogbloshie, Ghana; Delhi, India; and Guiyu, China, children pile e-waste into giant mountains and burn it so they can extract the metals — copper wires, gold and silver threads — inside, which they sell to recycling merchants for only a few dollars. In India, young boys smash computer batteries with mallets to recover cadmium, toxic flecks of which cover their hands and feet as they work. Women spend their days bent over baths of hot lead, “cooking” circuit boards so they can remove slivers of gold inside. Greenpeace, the Basel Action Network and others have posted YouTube videos of young children inhaling the smoke that rises from burned phone casings as they identify and separate different kinds of plastics for recyclers. It is hard to imagine that good health is a by-product of their unregulated industry.
在通常都很贫困的偏远地区，比如加纳的阿博布罗西(Agbogbloshie)、印度德里和中国广东的贵屿镇，儿童们把电子垃圾堆积成山，然后点火焚烧，以便提取其中的金属，如铜缆、金线和银线。之后他们再把这些金属以区区几美元的价格卖给回收的商人。在印度，年幼的男孩会用木槌敲打电脑的电池，从中回收镉，在工作的同时，有毒物质的碎屑沾满了他们的手脚。妇女们日复一日地弯下腰，对着铅液横流的地方“煮”电路板，从而取出其中少量的金子。绿色和平(Greenpeace)、巴塞尔行动网络(Basel Action Network)及其他组织在YouTube上发布了视频，显示年幼的儿童一边吸着焚烧手机外壳时升腾起的浓烟，一边为回收商家从中寻找和分拣不同种类的塑料。很难想象在他们这种不受监管的产业里，从业人员的健康能够得到保障。
Indeed, most scientists agree that exposure poses serious health risks, especially to pregnant women and children. The World Health Organization reports that even a low level of exposure to lead, cadmium and mercury (all of which can be found in old phones) can cause irreversible neurological damage and threaten the development of a child.
的确，多数科学家一致认为，接触这些物质会造成严峻的健康风险，尤其是孕妇和儿童。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)报告说，即使接触低剂量的铅、镉、水银（这些物质都能在旧手机中找到），也会导致不可逆转的神经系统损害，对儿童的发育产生威胁。
The growing toxic nightmare that is e-waste is not confined to third world outposts. It also poses health problems in the United States where, for several years, the Federal Bureau of Prisons has kept inmates busy processing e-waste. There are concrete steps the government, manufacturers and consumers could take to better dispose of electronic trash and to help prevent the pileup of more e-waste and the hazards e-waste processing poses.
电子垃圾带来的毒物噩梦并不限于第三世界的偏远地区，在美国也产生了健康问题。若干年来，联邦监狱局(Federal Bureau of Prisons)一直让囚犯忙碌地加工电子垃圾。政府、制造商和消费者可以采取切实举措，更好地处置电子垃圾，帮助避免堆积起更多的电子垃圾，也避免加工电子垃圾时产生的危害。
The United States, for example, remains the only industrialized country that has not ratified the Basel Convention, an international treaty that makes it illegal to export or traffic in toxic e-waste. Fully implementing the treaty would be a step toward joining global efforts to contain toxic waste troubles.
例如，美国仍然是唯一一个尚未批准《巴塞尔公约》(Basel Convention)的发达国家。这项国际公约规定，出口或买卖有毒电子垃圾系违法行为。全面执行这项公约，相当于向加入遏制有毒垃圾问题的全球努力，迈进了一步。
The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act, introduced in Congress in 2011, would have made it illegal to export toxic waste from the United States to countries that don’t belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The aim was to stop dumping e-waste on the world’s poorest nations and thus to provide an incentive for safer waste management in our own country. The bill had bipartisan support but was never put to a vote.
2011年提交国会的《负责任电子产品回收法案》(Responsible Electronics Recycling Act)规定，从美国向不属于经合组织成员的国家出口有毒垃圾属于非法行为。法案的目的在于制止向世界最贫困国家倾倒电子垃圾的行为，进而激励在美国实行更安全的垃圾管理。这项法案得到了两党的支持，但一直没有付诸表决。
The European Union provides a model for industrial regulation that would shift the burden of safe product disposal back to the manufacturers that produce electronic goods. Its Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive requires electronic sellers to accept, free of charge, any of their used products brought in by customers for recycling. The goal is to have properly recycled 85 percent of the European Union’s e-waste by 2019. Similarly, Japan requires its electronic manufacturers to establish their own recycling facilities or commission third parties to recycle a range of products, from computers and cellphones to TVs and air-conditioners.
欧洲联盟(European Union)为行业监管提供了范例，将安全处置产品的负担，放回了制造电子产品的厂商的肩头。欧盟的《废弃电子电气设备指令》(Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive)规定，电子产品经销商要免费对用户带来的任何用过的产品进行回收。其目标是到2019年，使欧盟85%的电子垃圾得到正规回收。与此相似，日本要求电子产品制造商建立自己的回收设施，或委托第三方回收一系列产品，包括电脑、手机、电视、空调。
Government or consumer pressure on manufacturers to design electronics with end-of-product-life issues in mind could be enormously helpful. Most cellphones, for example, are deliberately designed to make disassembly difficult. Changes in the way manufacturers glue, screw and solder components together would make it easier to dismantle discarded phones and thus reduce the risks posed by crude recycling techniques like those deployed by Ghanaian children.
政府或消费者对制造企业施加压力，使其在涉及电子产品时，考虑产品使用寿命结束时的问题。例如，许多手机被故意设计成难以拆卸的形式，而改变制造商粘合、拧紧、焊接配件的方式，就会使拆卸被丢弃的手机变得更容易，因而降低粗糙的回收技术，如加纳儿童使用的手法，所造成的风险。
THERE are alternative phone service business models that could be beneficial to producers, users and the rest of us. For example, manufacturers could sell products complete with prearranged recycling service or subscriptions that made it possible, for example, for phone user to exchange old units for new ones rather than throwing them away. Under a product service system model, companies recycle old units and repurpose core components. Xerox uses a similar model for its photocopiers, without impact on sales or profits.
此外，一些不同的手机服务商业模式可能有利于制造商、用户和其他人。例如，制造商销售产品时，可以附带提前安排好的回收服务，或者提供可以实现回收的订购服务，让用户可以用旧手机更换新手机，而不是直接丢弃。如果按照产品服务体系的模式，企业可以回收旧部件，改装核心部件。施乐(Xerox)就对复印机使用了类似的模式，且并未对其销售或利润产生影响。
In the absence of government regulation or industry initiative, consumers could play a role in determining what happens to products that have outlived their usefulness. Most phones and small electronics are designed with obsolescence in mind. But what if we held on to our gadgets longer and repaired, rather than replaced them? We could recycle the ones we no longer use through certified recycling services like e-Stewards, a nonprofit organization that runs certification programs for e-waste recyclers, ensuring that goods are not improperly exported.
在缺乏政府监管和行业行动的情况下，消费者可以左右产品结束使用后的归宿。厂商在设计许多手机和小电子产品时，就知道它们很快会过时。不过，如果我们对设备的更换没那么频繁，对它们进行修理而不是更换，那会怎样？我们可以将它们交给经过e-Stewards这类组织认证的回收服务机构，以确保商品不会被不当地出口。e-Stewards是一家经营电子垃圾回收服务认证的非营利团体。
As consumers we need to demand better end-of-life options for our high-tech trash; if manufacturers and government fall down on the job, we, the millions of Americans who own cellphones, should press for safe recycling.
作为消费者，我们需要呼吁，为高科技垃圾提供更好的用后处置方案。如果制造商和政府做不到，我们作为拥有手机的美国消费大众，应当推动安全的回收。