The fact that Michael Schumacher was wearing a helmet when he sustained a life-threatening head injury while skiing in France on Sunday probably did not come as a surprise to experts who have charted the increasing presence of helmets on slopes and halfpipes in recent years. The fact that the helmet did not prevent Schumacher’s injury probably did not surprise them, either.
12月29日，迈克尔·舒马赫(Michael Schumacher)在法国滑雪时头部受伤，危及生命，当时他戴着头盔；这个事实对追踪近年来斜坡和U型半管式滑雪中头盔佩戴出现上升的专家并不意外。而头盔并未令舒马赫免遭受伤的事实，可能对这些专家也并不意外。
Schumacher, the most successful Formula One driver in history, sustained a traumatic brain injury when he fell and hit his head on a rock while navigating an off-piste, or ungroomed, area at a resort in Méribel, France. Although he was wearing a helmet, he sustained injuries that have left him fighting for his life in a hospital in Grenoble, France.
在法国美贝尔的一处度假村滑雪时，史上最成功的F1赛车手舒马克在道外滑雪时坠落，头部撞到石头上，导致创伤性脑损伤。尽管事发时他戴着头盔，但仍然受重伤，目前仍在法国格勒诺布尔市的医院里接受治疗，生命垂危。
Schumacher’s injury also focused attention on an unsettling trend. Although skiers and snowboarders in the United States are wearing helmets more than ever — 70 percent of all participants, nearly triple the number from 2003 — there has been no reduction in the number of snow-sports-related fatalities or brain injuries in the country, according to the National Ski Areas Association.
舒马赫受重伤一事，也让人们注意到一个令人不安的趋势。据美国国家滑雪区联合会(National Ski Areas Association)介绍，尽管美国滑雪和滑板爱好者戴头盔的比例远高于以往——达到70%，比2003年的数字高出了近两倍——但美国人在雪上相关运动中死亡或脑损伤的数字并没有出现任何减少。
Experts ascribe that seemingly implausible correlation to the inability of helmets to prevent serious head injuries like Schumacher’s and to the fact that more skiers and snowboarders are engaging in risky behaviors: skiing faster, jumping higher and going out of bounds.
专家们将这种看似难以置信的关联归咎于两点，其一是头盔并不能防止人们遭受像舒马赫这样的严重头部创伤；其二是越来越多的滑雪和滑板爱好者开始从事高危行为，他们滑得更快、跳得更高，并且更多去滑雪道外区域。
“The equipment we have now allows us to do things we really couldn’t do before, and people’s pushing limits has sort of surpassed people’s ability to control themselves,” said Chris Davenport, a professional big-mountain skier.
“现在我们的设备能令我们做以往根本没办法做到的事情，所以很多人在不断突破自己的极限，有时简直会超越对其身体的控制能力，”职业高山滑雪运动员克里斯·达文波特(Chris Davenport)说。
Dave Byrd, the ski association’s director of risk management, attributed the surge in helmet use to grass-roots efforts by resorts, helmet manufacturers and medical professionals to encourage their use. He also cited growing public awareness about brain injuries, a result of persistent news media attention on the issue in sports, particularly in the N.F.L., and several high-profile skiing deaths, like those of Sonny Bono and Natasha Richardson. New Jersey is the only state that mandates helmet use, requiring it for children 17 and under.
滑雪联合会风险管理主任大卫·伯德(Dave Byrd)认为，佩戴头盔的比例提升，得归功于滑雪度假村、头盔制造厂商和医务专业人员的基层努力。此外，他认为公众对脑损伤的认识也在不断加深，而这是新闻媒体对运动导致脑外伤不懈报道的结果，这其中最著名的当属对美国橄榄球联盟(N.F.L.)的相关报道，以及包括桑尼·博诺(Sonny Bono)和娜塔莎·理查德森(Natasha Richardson)在内的几起名人滑雪死亡事件。现在在美国，新泽西是唯一对头盔佩戴做出强制规定的州，要求17岁以下儿童必须使用头盔。
The increase in helmet use has had positive results. Experts say helmets have reduced the numbers of less serious head injuries, like scalp lacerations, by 30 percent to 50 percent, and Schumacher’s doctors say he would not have survived his fall had he not worn a helmet. But growing evidence indicates that helmets do not prevent some more serious injuries, like the tearing of delicate brain tissue, said Jasper Shealy, a professor emeritus at Rochester Institute of Technology.
头盔使用增多带来了积极的效果。专家称，戴头盔使较轻的头外伤，比如头皮挫裂伤的比例降低了30-50%。但罗彻斯特理工学院(Rochester Institute of Technology)荣退教授贾斯珀·希利(Jasper Shealy)说，越来越多的证据显示，头盔并不能防止更严重的外伤，比如脑组织撕裂发生。
Shealy, who has been studying snow-sports-related injuries at Sugarbush resort in Vermont for more than 30 years, said that could be because those injuries typically involve a rotational component that today’s helmets cannot mitigate. He said his research had not found any decline in what he called P.S.H.I.’s, for potentially serious head injuries, a classification that includes concussion, skull fracture, closed head injury, traumatic brain injury and death by head injury.
希利已经就佛蒙特州舒格布什度假村的雪上运动相关外伤进行了30多年的研究，他介绍说，这类重伤通常涉及到旋转分量(rotational component)，而这是目前的头盔尚无法攻克的难题。他说他的研究显示，有可能导致严重后果的脑外伤（即他所称的“P.S.H.I.”）并未出现任何减少，这类损伤包括脑震荡、颅骨折、闭锁性头部外伤、创伤性脑损伤及因颅脑外伤导致的死亡。
In fact, some studies indicate that the number of snow-sports-related head injuries has increased. A 2012 study at the Western Michigan University School of Medicine on head injuries among skiers and snowboarders in the United States found that the number of head injuries increased 60 percent in a seven-year period, from 9,308 in 2004 to 14,947 in 2010, even as helmet use increased by an almost identical percentage over the same period. A March 2013 study by the University of Washington concluded that the number of snow-sports-related head injuries among youths and adolescents increased 250 percent from 1996 to 2010.
事实上，有些研究显示雪上运动的相关头部受伤案例增加了。2012年西密歇根大学(Western Michigan University)医学院进行了一项关于美国滑雪和滑板爱好者头外伤的研究，发现在7年间头部外伤的案例增长了60%，由2004年的9308起增至2010年的14947起，尽管在同期头盔使用也出现了几乎完全一致的增幅。2013年5月，一项由华盛顿大学(University of Washington)进行的研究指出，在年轻人和青少年中出现的与雪上相动相关的头部外伤案例，在1996年到2010年间增长了250%。
Experts agree that the roots of the trend are complicated and could be related to increased awareness about brain injuries and reporting of them. But they also agreed on one element underpinning the trend: an increase in risk-taking behaviors that they said the snow-sports industry had embraced. In recent years, many resorts have built bigger features in their terrain parks and improved access to more extreme terrain. At the same time, advances in equipment have made it easier to ski faster, perform tricks and venture out of bounds.
专家们认为这种趋势的根源错综复杂，可能与公众对脑损伤的认识和相关媒体报道增加有关。但他们也认同，有一种因素支撑着这种趋势：危险行为不断上升，而且据他们看来，这种行为一直受到雪上运动产业的鼓励。近年来，很多滑雪度假村在滑雪场兴修大型设施，并建成了更多极限滑道。与此同时，滑雪设备变得更加先进，这使得人们可以更轻松地滑得更快、完成特技动作，并在场外冒险。
“There’s a push toward faster, higher, pushing the limits being the norm, not the exception,” said Nina Winans, a sports medicine physician at Tahoe Forest MultiSpecialty Clinics in Truckee, Calif. “So, all of those factors — terrain parks, jumping cliffs and opening terrain that maybe wasn’t open in the past — play into some of these statistics with injuries.”
“大家都在追求更快、更高，超越极限成为了常态、而非异常，”加州特拉基市塔霍森林综合医院运动医学医生妮娜·怀南斯(Nina Winans)说：“所以，各种因素——滑雪场、悬崖跳台和过去可能不会开放的开放滑道——加在一起，对伤亡数据起到了一定的作用。”
The population most susceptible to that culture is the one that is dying, statistics show. Seventy percent of snow-sports fatalities involve men in their late teens to late 30s, according to the ski area association. That is the same population that most often engages in high-risk behaviors like driving fast. Head injuries remain the leading cause of deaths in skiing and snowboarding, Shealy said, with about 30 in the United States each year.
数据显示，最容易受到这种极限文化感召的人群恰恰正是最有可能在事故中身亡的。据滑雪区联合会数据，70%因滑雪死亡的人，都是十几岁到30多岁的男性。这个人群也会最为频繁地从事像飙车这类高危行为。希利说，头部外伤仍是滑雪和滑板运动最主要的死因，每年美国约有30起。
“The helmet does a very good job at protecting against skull lacerations and skull fractures, but it doesn’t seem to have much effect on concussions or T.B.I.’s,” Shealy said, referring to traumatic brain injuries. “Our guess is that this is due to the fact that those injuries are occurring at such a high magnitude of energy that they overwhelm what a helmet can do for you.”
“头盔在避免发生颅骨撕裂伤和颅骨骨折方面表现得十分出色，但貌似在防止脑震荡或创伤性脑损伤方面并没有多少用处，”希利说：“我们猜想这是因为出现这类伤情时，产生的量级极大，超出了头盔的保护范围。”
That could be what happened to Schumacher and to Sarah Burke, a four-time X Games superpipe gold medalist who was fatally injured two years ago while skiing in Park City, Utah.
这就是舒马赫和莎拉·伯克(Sarah Burke)遭遇到的问题，伯克曾四度赢得极限运动会(X Games)超级U型池比赛冠军，两年前在犹他州帕克城滑雪时身受致命伤。
Burke was practicing a routine trick in a 22-foot-tall halfpipe in January 2012 when she fell and hit her head on the packed snow. Although she was wearing a helmet, she ruptured her vertebral artery, which caused extensive bleeding in her brain. That led to cardiac arrest, which deprived her brain of oxygen. She died nine days later.
2012年1月，伯克在22英尺高（合6.7米）的U型半管池中练习一套常规动作，结果跌落下来，头部砸到了压实的积雪上。尽管当时戴着头盔，她的椎动脉还是破裂了，因此导致脑部大量出血。这引发了心脏骤停，大脑缺氧。她在9天后去世。
Some manufacturers are trying to make helmets safer by introducing technologies that better mitigate some of the forces that cause brain injuries. One such technology, the Multidirectional Impact Protection System, is designed to absorb the rotational forces that produce serious brain injuries. But some medical professionals say that wearing a helmet could give skiers and snowboarders a false sense of security.
一些厂商试图通过更有效减轻导致脑外伤的外力的技术，使得头盔更为安全。其中一项技术叫“多向冲击保护系统”，设计目的是吸收旋转冲力，正是这种力量会导致严重脑部损伤。但一些医学界专业人士说，戴头盔会令滑雪和滑板爱好者产生不真实的安全感。
“There’s no 100 percent prevention of brain injury,” said Alan Weintraub, the medical director of the brain injury program at Craig Hospital in Englewood, Colo. “Because the more the head and brain are protected, the more risks people take, the more velocities happen with those risks and the more velocities are transmitted to the skull and brain.”
“对于脑外伤，不可能有万全的保护，”科罗拉多州恩格尔伍德市克雷格医院脑外伤项目医学主管艾伦·温特劳布(Alan Weintraub)说：“因为对头部和大脑的保护越多，人们就越易于冒险，冒险时速度更快，也就向颅骨和大脑传导了更快的速度。”
The bigger issue, some experts said, is addressing a snow-sports culture that celebrates risk. Last January, the film director Lucy Walker released “The Crash Reel,” which documents the snowboarder Kevin Pearce’s comeback from the brain injury he sustained in 2009. By exploring extreme snow sports, Walker said, she hoped to increase awareness of traumatic brain injuries, encourage helmet use and safer practices among professional and recreational athletes, and challenge the snow-sports industry to re-evaluate its role and responsibility in propagating risk-taking.
一些专家说，现在更重要的事情是要向这个鼓励冒险的雪上运动文化大声疾呼。去年1月，电影导演卢茜·沃克(Lucy Walker)发行了电影《雪道眩晕》(The Crash Reel)，电影记录了滑板运动员凯文·皮尔斯(Kevin Pearce)在2009年身受脑外伤后复出的故事。沃克说，她希望通过探寻极限雪上运动，增进人们对创伤性脑损伤的了解，倡导职业运动员和爱好者佩戴头盔、并在运动时更加注重安全，同时激励雪上运动产业要重估自己的角色和在鼓吹冒险方面所负有的责任。
“There’s this energy drink culture now, a high-level, high-risk culture, that’s being marketed and impacting the way people ski,” said Robb Gaffney, a sports psychiatrist. “That’s what people see, and that’s what people think skiing is, but really, that’s the highest level of skiers doing the highest level of tricks.”
“现在弥漫的是一种能量饮料文化，一种高级别、高风险的文化，它受到大肆推广，并影响到人们滑雪的方式，”运动精神病学家罗伯·加夫尼(Robb Gaffney)说：“这就是人们的看法，这就是人们眼中的滑雪运动，可是真的，他们看到的是最高水平的运动员在做最高水平的特技动作。”