Nate Meckes recognized that he needed to study the accuracy of activity monitors after wearing one. A shipment of the devices, known technically as accelerometers and designed to measure a person’s movement and energy expenditure, had arrived at Arizona State University, where Dr. Meckes was a researcher. To ensure they were operational, he slipped one over his hip and wore it throughout the day, including to an interminable meeting where he stood up and paced. “I’m not good at sitting still,” he says.
亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State Univeristy)的研究员纳特·梅克斯(Nate Meckes)在戴上健身追踪器后意识到，他应该研究一下这东西准不准。这款邮寄来的电子设备从技术上讲是个加速计，用于测量人体活动和能量消耗。为确定它运行正常，梅克斯博士全天都把它套在腰上，包括一场冗长的会议，会议期间他站起来走了走。“我不擅长一直坐着不动，”他说。
Checking his monitor afterward, though, he was flabbergasted. “It had recorded that I was not moving at all,” says Dr. Meckes, now an assistant professor at Azusa Pacific University in Azusa, Calif. The experience inspired him to set up an experiment examining how reliable such devices are.
结果他查看追踪器时吓了一跳。“记录显示我一点儿没动，”他说。梅克斯博士现在是加州阿兹塞太平洋大学(Azusa Pacific University)的助理教授。个人经历促使他展开了一项试验，检验这类仪器究竟有多准。
Until recently, accelerometers, which use electronics to determine bodily movement and intensity, had been confined to research laboratories. But now, at-home users can choose from a variety of devices, sold under such brand names as Fitbit and Nike+ FuelBand. Some are worn on the hip; others on the arm or wrist. All sense movement and feed data into the device’s electronic brain, where proprietary equations determine how much energy someone is expending, meaning, in practical terms, how many calories they burn.
前不久，用于测定身体活动和活动强度的加速计还只限于实验室研究。而现在，个人用户已有了诸多选择，比如Fitbit品牌和Nike+ FuelBand。有些戴在臀部以上部位，有些戴在手臂或手腕上，它们感应人体活动，把数据输送给仪器内部的电脑，电脑里存着专有公式，计算所消耗的能量，简单说，燃烧了多少卡路里。
But by and large, users have had to take such measurements on faith. Unbiased, comparative studies of the devices haven’t been available.
不过基本上，用户只能一厢情愿地相信测量出的数据。因为人们对此类设备还没做过公正的、对比性的研究。
Which makes Dr. Meckes’s experiment useful and timely, particularly since his results, presented last month in Indianapolis at the annual meeting of the American College of Sports Medicine, join those of a number of other new studies in raising concerns about just how well today’s activity monitors do their job.
这就让梅克斯博士的实验显得适时又有意义，特别是自从上个月他在印第安纳波利斯举办的美国运动医学会(American College of Sports Medicine)年会上报告了他的实验结果后。与另一些新研究一样，他们都对运动检测器的可靠性提出了质疑。
For his experiment, Dr. Meckes gathered 16 adult volunteers and fitted each with three different monitors, two worn on the hip and one around the arm. The volunteers also donned portable masks that measure oxygen consumption, the gold standard in determining energy output.
梅克斯召集了16名成年志愿者，给他们每人装上三个不同的追踪器，两个戴在腰间，另一个绕在手臂上。同时，志愿者还戴着测量耗氧量的便携式面罩。氧气面罩是测定能量输出的黄金标尺。
The volunteers then threw themselves into a variety of activities in the university’s physiology lab, including walking on a treadmill, cleaning a simulated kitchen, standing up, typing at a computer and playing a board game.
然后，志愿者开始进行一系列生理实验室设计的运动项目：在跑步机上步行、清理模拟厨房、站立、在电脑前打字和玩桌游。
All three of the devices accurately measured energy expenditure when the volunteers walked briskly, Dr. Meckes and his colleagues found; their estimates closely matched those of the oxygen-consumption monitor.
梅克斯博士和同事发现：当志愿者快步行走时，三种运动追踪器都准确地测出他们消耗的能量。所得数据与耗氧监测器很接近。
But the devices were far less reliable in tracking the energy costs of light-intensity activities like standing or cleaning, often misinterpreting them as physical immobility. Only the calorie cost of typing was overestimated, and only by the armband monitor, which considered the arm movements involved to be far more dynamic than they actually are.
可是，当用于测量低强度活动，比如站立和打扫时，这些仪器就太不准了，它们经常认为志愿者完全没动。只有打字消耗的能量被估计多了，而且只是被套在胳膊上的追踪器估计多了，追踪器认为志愿者手臂的运动强度比实际强度高得多。
These miscalculations echo those of the findings from several other new studies. One, also reported at the sports medicine meeting, involved 74 adults, young and old, who wore an armband accelerometer and a portable oxygen-consumption gauge while walking, jogging, riding a stationary bicycle, windmilling an arm ergometer, and completing so-called activities of daily living, like lifting boxes and sweeping.
梅克斯实验发现的误差与另一些新研究相符。其中一项研究的结果也在运动学会年会上发表。研究者给74名包含各年龄段的成年志愿者戴上臂环式加速计和便携式氧气面罩，然后让志愿者步行、慢跑、骑健身自行车、旋转臂力测力器，并完成一些所谓日常活动的运动，诸如搬箱子和拖地。
Again, the accelerometer measured the more strenuous bodily movements, like jogging, fairly accurately. But it significantly underestimated subtler activities, like sweeping, and was “terrible” at measuring bicycle pedaling, which involves no arm movement, says Glenn Gaesser, the director of the Healthy Lifestyles Research Center at Arizona State University in Phoenix, who oversaw the study.
指导该实验的格伦·加瑟(Glenn Gaesser)博士是亚利桑那州立大学健康生活研究中心(Healthy Lifestyles Research Center)的主任，他说，结果再次证明，加速计在测量强度高的身体活动（比如慢跑）时是很准确的。但它严重低估了低强度运动（比如拖地）；而且在对骑自行车的测量上“错得离谱”，因为手臂不参与运动。
So, too, a study published last month in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise found that several hip-mounted accelerometers underestimated the energy involved in standing up, bicycling and walking or jogging uphill, says Ray Browning, an assistant professor of exercise science at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, who led the study.
还有一项研究发表在上个月的《体育医学与科学》(Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise)杂志上。柯林斯堡科罗拉多州立大学(Colordo State Universit)的运动科学助理教授雷·布朗宁(Ray Browning)负责此研究。他说，许多挂在腰间的加速计低估了站立、骑车、步行或上坡跑的能量消耗。
The question, of course, is whether it matters if the devices are inaccurate, especially if they underestimate daily energy expenditure, and perhaps fiendishly spur some at-home users to move more, thinking that they’ve expended less energy than they actually have.
当然，问题是，仪器不准有关系么？特别是它低估每日能耗，也许由于让使用者认为自己没有消耗那么多能量，反而可以有效地刺激他们多活动。
The studies’ researchers think the inaccuracies do matter. “There’s a growing consensus” among exercise scientists, Dr. Meckes says, “that people should spend less time in sedentary activities, like sitting,” and instead stand up, stroll or sweep more. But if people get the idea from their activity monitors that such activities don’t really count, in terms of movement and calorie expenditure, “it may be harder to get that message across,” he says.
研究人员认为这等事情不容小觑。梅克斯博士说：“越来越多的运动科学家认为，人们应该少从事‘静止活动’，比如坐着。”人们应当站起来，走一走，打扫一下卫生。但人们从健身追踪器上得到的讯息是，这类运动不算运动——从身体活动和卡路里消耗方面来讲。“这样就更难使科学家的建议深入人心了，”他说。
The good news is that accelerometers are improving, Dr. Browning says. The algorithms underlying the devices’ measurements — which are developed by engineers using data from people wearing the devices — are constantly being refined. And researchers, including Dr. Browning, are exploring better monitor placement.
布朗宁教授说，好消息是，加速计在进步。其测量的基础——由工程师根据佩戴加速计的实验对象输出的数据而创造的算法——正逐渐被完善。同时，包括布朗宁教授在内的许多研究者也在开发更好的监测器。
At Colorado State, for instance, he and his colleagues have created a prototype shoe-based accelerometer, which embeds the electronics in an insole. In his recent study, this device better captured changes in posture and foot pressure than hip-level accelerometers.
比如在科罗拉多州，布朗宁及其同事发明了一个放在鞋子里的加速计模型，电子元件装载在鞋垫里。他近期的研究显示，这种仪器比置于腰上的加速计更能感应姿势和脚底压力的变化。
Still, the lesson at the moment for anyone who owns an accelerometer is that the device’s measurements are likely to be imperfect — which, says Dr. Gaesser, does not mean you should stash yours in a drawer. “They may not be accurate” for counting calories, he says. “But for many people, they’re inspirational, and if using one gets someone to move more, then as far as I’m concerned, it’s serving a good purpose.”
不过话说回来，但凡使用过现有的健身追踪器的人都会发现，这玩意儿很可能并不完美。但是，加瑟博士说，这并不意味着你应当把它束之高阁。“它们可能无法准确计算卡路里，”他说，“但对很多人而言，追踪器能起到鼓励作用。只要用它的人能更多地活动，那么我认为追踪器就是有意义的。”