SHANGHAI – Christie’s held its first auction in mainland China Thursday, a modest affair by international standards that brought $24.9 million for 39 paintings, sculpture, jewelry, watches, and wine.
上海——周四，佳士得(Christie)在中国大陆举行了第一次拍卖会。从国际标准来看，此次拍卖规模不大，39件画作、雕塑、珠宝、名表和红酒的总成交额为2490万美元（约合1.54亿元人民币）。
The top price for the evening was the $2.9 million bid for a ruby and diamond necklace designed by the Indian company, Faidee, from 30 “pigeon blood” rubies from Myanmar. The piece, which Christie’s jewelry experts said was made in the last five years, failed to fetch its high estimate of $4.6 million. The bidding prices do not include the buyer’s premium.
当晚成交价最高的拍品的是印度公司辉帝(Faidee)所设计的红宝石及钻石项链，它由30颗缅甸“鸽血红”红宝石制成。佳士得的珠宝专家说，这条项链制作于过去五年，成交价并没有达到最高估价460万美元。拍卖价格不包括买家应付的佣金。
A small 1969 Picasso, “Homme Assis,” drew a bid of $1.5 million, $500,000 more than its high estimate. It was the first Picasso sold at auction in China, Christie’s said.
毕加索(Picasso)1969年的一幅小型画作《坐著的男人》(Homme Assis)拍出了150万美元，比最高估价高出了50万美元。佳士得说，这是第一件在中国拍卖会上售出的毕加索作品。
The highest price for a Chinese work of art, $1.6 million, went to a set of 14 plaster and bronze sculptures called “Clothes Veins Study Series” by Sui Jianguo.
成交价最高的中国艺术作品是隋建国的《衣纹研究系列》，这组作品由14件石膏和青铜雕塑组成，成交价格为160万美元。
The sale attracted attention because it was the first time an international auction house had been allowed to independently conduct an auction in China, which now rivals the United States as an art and auction market.
此次拍卖会之所以引人注目，是因为这是国际拍卖公司首次获准在中国独立举办拍卖活动。目前，中国已经成为了能与美国媲美的艺术和拍卖市场。
But compared to the $495 million record sale of postwar and contemporary art sold at Christie’s in May at Rockefeller Center in New York, the Shanghai sale was on a much smaller scale.
但是，与佳士得5月在纽约洛克菲勒中心(Rockefeller Center)的战后及当代艺术品拍卖上创下的4.95亿美元成交纪录相比，上海拍卖会的规模明显小了很多。
Mostly Chinese buyers attended the sale in a vast ballroom at the Shangri La hotel here, where the auctioneer, Jin Ling, in a vermilion dress, conducted the bidding in Chinese, often in excited tones. Other bids were taken by phone and online.
拍卖会在上海香格里拉酒店的一个大厅里举行，参加者多为中国买家。身穿朱红裙装的拍卖师金铃（音译）用汉语主持拍卖，她的语气往往比较激动。其他竞价则通过手机和网络进行。
Some Western works did not fare as well as the Picasso. An Andy Warhol silkscreen, “Diamond Dust Shoes,” fetched $655,200, a figure below its high estimate of $800,000, and a small mobile by Alexander Calder sold for $1.3 million, also below its high estimate set at $1.5 million.
一些西方作品并没有像前述毕加索作品那样拍出高价。安迪‧沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)的丝网作品《钻石粉鞋》(Diamond Dust Shoes)以65.52万美元成交，低于其80万美元的最高估价，亚历山大·考尔德(Alexander Calder)的一件小型活动雕塑则拍得130万美元，同样低于其150万美元的最高估价。
Before the auction, Christie’s experts said the company decided to offer what they called an array of categories rather than concentrate on paintings and sculpture. In that sense, the sale was a test of Chinese taste that would set the trend for future auctions, they said.
早在拍卖会开始前，佳士得的专家就表示，公司决定提供一批多种多样的拍品，不只是画作和雕塑。他们说，这样就可以看出中国人的喜好，为将来的拍卖做准备。
The jewelry appeared to attract some of the most spirited bidding.
珠宝似乎赢得了最为激烈的一些竞价。
A jade Buddha, described in the catalog as 103 millimeters high, soared beyond its high estimate of $120,000 and sold for $900,900.
一尊玉佛以90万美元成交，大大超出了12万美元的最高估价。根据拍品目录，这尊玉佛高10.3厘米。
The owner of Christie’s, the French businessman, Francois Pinault, sat in the front row, and Christie’s sales staff and experts from London, New York and Hong Kong were scattered around the room.
佳士得的所有者、法国商人弗朗索瓦·皮诺(Francois Pinault)坐在前排，公司销售人员以及来自伦敦、纽约和香港的专家则分散在室内各处。
The bidding opened with wine from Château Latour, the French wine estate owned by Mr. Pinault. Twelve bottles of Château Latour 2000 and six magnums of Château Latour 2000 sold for $49,140. Three bottles of 1986, 1990 and 2009 Château Margaux – the most popular wine among China’s wealthy – went for $62,244.
拍卖会的首件拍品是皮诺拥有的法国酒庄拉图(Château Latour)出产的红酒。12瓶2000年份标准瓶拉图红酒和6瓶2000年份大瓶拉图红酒最终拍得49140美元。三瓶年份分别为1986、1990及2009的玛歌(Château Margaux)红酒——最受中国富人欢迎的红酒——以62244美元成交。
A painting called “Bicycle” of a man in a red coat standing with his bike by the Chinese artist Zeng Fanzhi fetched $1.2 million.
中国艺术家曾梵志的画作《自行车》(Bicycle)拍出了120万美元，这幅画描绘的是一个身穿红色外套的男人站在他的自行车旁的场景。
But some of the most popular Chinese contemporary painters in the United States and Europe – Zhang Xiaogang, and Fang Lijun – were absent from the sale.
不过，一些在欧美广受欢迎的中国当代画家——比如张晓刚和方力钧——的画作没有出现在拍卖会中。
“The Chinese paintings were by well loved artists who pioneered contemporary art in China in the late 1980s and early 1990s,” said Meg Maggio, the director of a gallery in Beijing specializing in contemporary art.
马芝安(Meg Maggio)是北京一家现代艺术画廊的总监。她说，“拍卖会上的中国画作来自一些倍受欢迎的艺术家，他们曾在20世纪80年代末90年代初开创中国当代艺术的潮流。”
At the end of the sale, the managing director of Christie’s in China, Jinqing Caroline Cai, said the evening had been a “milestone.”
拍卖会结束时，佳士得执行董事蔡金青(Jinqing Caroline Cai)表示，这场拍卖活动是一个“里程碑”。
“It shows the China market really needs us and welcomes us. Tonight is the very first step for Christie’s in China,” she said.
她说，”这说明中国市场真的需要并欢迎我们。今晚是佳士得在中国迈出的第一步。”
Christie’s received its license to conduct the auction from the Chinese authorities in April. Last year, Christie’s rival, Sotheby’s, formed a joint venture in Beijing with the Beijing Gehua Cultural Development Group to hold auctions in China.
今年4月，佳士得获得了中国相关机构颁发的拍卖执照。去年，佳士得的竞争对手苏富比拍卖公司(Sotheby's)和北京歌华文化发展集团联手在北京组建了一家合资企业，以便在中国举行拍卖会。
In July, the Chinese government announced plans for a free trade zone in Shanghai, and details of how the zone will operate are expected to be announced this Sunday.
今年7月，中国政府公布了在上海设立自由贸易区的计划，自贸区运作模式的细节预计将在本周日公布。
Christie’s said Thursday that the creation of the zone at the same time that the auction house held its first auction in the city was “pure coincidence.” At the least, the zone would undoubtedly make customs procedures much easier, Ms. Cai said.
周四，佳士得表示，中国创立上海自由贸易区与该公司在上海举行首次拍卖会的时间一致，这一事实“纯属巧合”。蔡金清表示，毫无疑问，自由贸易区至少会大大简化海关手续。
As part of the license agreement with the Chinese government, Christie’s agreed not to sell any “cultural relics,” a term that covers art works or other objects dated before 1949 when the Communist Party took power.
在与中国政府签订的许可协议中，佳士得同意不出售“文物”，这个术语涵盖1949年共产党执政前的艺术作品及其他物品。
Many Chinese art buyers prefer to buy paintings and porcelain from the pre-1949 period, and pay prices for them both in China at Chinese auction houses and abroad that outstrip those at Thursday’s auction.
很多中国的艺术品买家倾向于购买1949年前的画作和瓷器，他们不仅在国内的中国拍卖行购买，也在国外购买，那些物品好于周四拍卖会的拍品。
Asked after the auction if Christie’s would contest that restriction, Steven P. Murphy, the chief executive of Christie’s International, said, “It is not for us to ask about the restrictions.”
拍卖会结束后，有人问及佳士得是否会对上述限制提出异议，佳士得国际(Christie’s International)首席执行官史蒂芬·P·墨菲(Steven P.Murphy)回答道，“拍卖限制的问题不该由我们来问。”