Now that the Apple iPad Mini is here, I'm fielding one particular question from friends, family and readers: Which model should I buy?
现在，苹果公司(Apple)的iPad Mini已经推出了，我得回答朋友、家人和读者提出的这个问题：该买哪种型号呢？
This could be a potentially expensive decision. The iPad Mini starts at $330 for the 16-gigabyte Wi-Fi version and goes all the way to a high-altitude $670 for the 64-gigabyte version with 3G data.
购买iPad Mini的决定可能会耗资巨大。iPad Mini带Wi-Fi的16G型号起价330美元（约合2060元人民币），但带3G数据的64G型号，价格却高达670美元（约合4182元人民币）。 
So what do all the extra Benjamin Franklins get you? Not much, really. Each rung higher on the iPad Mini ladder will cost you $100 for a slight memory increase. It's obvious that Apple is making hefty margins from these upgrades. The company charges $100 to go from 16 gigabytes to 32 gigabytes with the iPad Mini. Compare that to the same upgrade from a 16-gigabyte thumb drive to a 32-gigabyte thumb drive: the larger one is a whopping $10 more.
那么多花几百美元能让你得到什么？说实话，真没什么。iPad Mini每高一档，你就需要为了少量的存储空间扩容多花100美元。很明显，苹果从这些容量提升中赚取相当多的利润。把iPad Mini从16G提高到32G，这家公司就要收100美元。相比之下，把16G的U盘提高到32G，差价才10美元。
But fear not, dear iPad Mini owner-to-be. The cloud is here to help save you money.
但别担心，想买iPad Mini的亲们，云计算可以帮你们省钱。
As a technology reporter, I often jump between gadgets to test out the latest offering from the Apples and Googles of the world. Rather than download everything to each device, I've found that I can keep most of my life in the cloud and pluck out what I need when I need it. In doing this, I have also found, almost by accident, that I keep most of the memory free on my devices.
作为一名科技记者，我喜欢换着用各种电子设备，用来测试世界上从苹果到谷歌(Google)的各种不同的公司提供的最新产品。不必把所有东西都下载到每一台设备上，我发现可以把生活中需要的东西都保存在云里，在我需要的时候再随时拿下来。我也几乎是偶然发现，这样一来，我的设备上大部分存储空间都处于空闲状态。
For music I use the online music services Rdio, at $15 a month, and Pandora, which has a free ad-supported version or a $36-a-year option. These services allow me to stream my favorite music from the Internet. Although albums don't need to be stored on my device, Rdio has the option to sync specific songs to your phone or tablet to listen to offline. I do the same thing with books, mostly buying them from Amazon and retrieving with the free Kindle software. When I'm done with a book, I catapult it back into the Kindle cloud.
对于音乐，我使用的是在线音乐服务Rdio和Pandora，前者每月15美元，后者有广告支持的免费服务，也有每年36美元的收费服务。这两个网站让我能在网上通过流媒体收听喜欢的音乐。尽管专辑无需下载到我的设备上，Rdio也提供了将特定歌曲同步到手机或平板电脑上的选项，从而在离线时播放。对于读书我的做法也与此相同，主要是从亚马逊(Amazon)上购买，然后使用免费的Kindle软件阅读。我读完一本书后，就把它丢回Kindle的云端。
I rent movies and TV shows from Apple for offline use, then delete them when I'm done. I stream others from Netflix, YouTube or Hulu. My photos are all stored in the cloud, too, either on Facebook, Flickr, Google Picasa or Apple iCloud. All of these photo services have free options.
我从苹果网站上租借电影和电视节目并离线观看，看完就删除。另外也从Netflix、YouTube和Hulu上通过流媒体收看了一些。我的照片也全都储存在云端，在Facebook、Flickr、谷歌Picasa或苹果iCloud中都有。所有这些照片服务都有免费的选项。
Personal files can be stored in DropBox, Box or Apple iCloud, which all have free options, too. Since the cloud can go down -- ahem, Amazon -- I back up all of my important files on one of those inexpensive 16-gigabyte thumb drives that cost $10.
个人文件可以储存在DropBox、Box或苹果iCloud中，这些服务都有免费的选项。因为这些云端服务可能会出问题（咳咳，比方说亚马逊那次），所以我把所有的重要文件都备份在一个16G的便宜U盘上，只花了10美元（约合62元人民币）。
When you know you're entering the real cloud, on an airplane, just be sure to download the things you need for the trip before departing. I've personally made this part of my packing routine: socks, underwear, download a movie, toothpaste, T-shirts, sync my digital books.
当你坐飞机飞到真正的云中时，可别忘了在出发之前下载旅途中需要的所有东西。我个人已经把这个步骤加入了我收拾行李的程序中：袜子、内衣、下载一部电影、牙膏、T恤衫、同步我的电子书。
Keep in mind, you're not necessarily paying for the memory on the iPad Mini. You're paying for your time. Here's how I've learned to balance the two.
记住，你在iPad Mini上多花的钱，买的未必是存储空间，可能是时间。我就是这样学着平衡金钱和时间的。