Donald J. Trump all but erased his enormous fund-raising deficit against Hillary Clinton in the span of just two months, according to figures released by his campaign on Tuesday, converting the passion of his core followers into a flood of small donations on a scale rarely seen in national politics.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的竞选团队周二公布的数字显示，在短短两个月的时间里，特朗普便几乎消除了与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在资金筹集上的巨大差距，以国内政治中罕见的规模，将自己的核心支持者的热情转化成了大量小额捐款。
Mr. Trump and the Republican National Committee raised $64 million through a joint digital and direct mail effort in July, according to his campaign, the bulk of it from small donations. All told, Mr. Trump and his party brought in $82 million last month, only slightly behind Mrs. Clinton, and ended with an enormous pool of $74 million in cash on hand, suggesting he might now have the resources to compete with Mrs. Clinton in the closing stretch of the campaign.
特朗普的竞选团队称，通过7月一次电邮和直邮相结合的活动，特朗普和共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)筹集到了6400万美元（约合4.2亿元人民币），其中大部分是小额捐款。特朗普和共和党上月总共收到了8200万美元，仅略微落后于克林顿，最后在手的现金多达7400万美元。这表明，他现在可能具备了在最后的竞选阶段与克林顿一争高低所需的资源。
The figures mark a major achievement in Mr. Trump’s campaign, which until recent months was largely funded by a trickle of hat and T-shirt sales and by Mr. Trump’s wallet. And they suggest Mr. Trump has the potential to be the first Republican nominee whose campaign could be financed chiefly by grass-roots supporters pitching in $10 or $25 apiece, echoing the unprecedented success of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont during the Democratic presidential primary.
这些数字标志着特朗普的竞选取得的一项重大成就。直到几个月前，其竞选资金仍主要来自销售帽子和T恤带来的少量收入及特朗普个人的资金。它们还表明，特朗普可能会成为首位竞选资金主要来自每人捐10美元或25美元草根支持者的共和党提名人选。这与佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在民主党总统初选中所取得的前所未有的成功类似。
Mrs. Clinton has “been doing this for 20 years,” said Steven Mnuchin, a New York investor who serves as Mr. Trump’s finance chairman. “We’ve been doing it for two months.”
担任特朗普财务主席的纽约投资人史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)说，克林顿“做这些事已经有20年了。我们只做了两个月”。
Exact figures — including a precise breakdown of total cash raised in small increments by each candidate — will not be available until Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton file their formal monthly reports with the Federal Election Commission this month. And Mr. Trump’s surge is coming very late in the campaign, at a point where advertising rates climb and the chance to invest in a long-term digital and campaign infrastructure is long past.
外界要等到特朗普和克林顿本月向联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)提交正式的月报后，才能知道具体的数字，包括每个候选人的全部筹得款项的详目。特朗普的筹款激增出现在竞选非常靠后的阶段。此时，广告价格已经攀升，投资长远的数字和竞选基础设施的机会早已过去。
But the campaign’s figures suggest that after months of dithering and false starts, Mr. Trump has begun to exploit an opportunity that many Republicans have long viewed as his for the taking: marrying his powerful credibility among grass-roots Republicans with the high-tech tools of large-scale digital fund-raising. During July 2012, for example, Mitt Romney and the Republican National Committee reported raising a total of just $19 million from contributions of less than $200.
但特朗普的竞选团队公布的数字表明，经过数月的犹豫和出师不利后，特朗普开始利用一个机会：将自己对共和党草根阶层的强大号召力同大规模数字募捐的高科技手段结合起来。长期以来，很多共和党人一直认为他可以轻松利用这个机会。比如，在2012年7月，米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和共和党全国委员会通报称，200美元以下的捐款的总额仅为1900万美元。
“There was always that potential, but you didn’t have candidates who were as uniquely positioned in the same way that Trump is,” said Patrick Ruffini, a Republican strategist who ran digital fund-raising at the Republican National Committee under President George W. Bush.
“一直都存在这种可能性，但以前没有情况像特朗普这么独特的候选人，”在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统时期的共和党全国委员会负责数字募捐工作的共和党策略师帕特里克·鲁菲尼(Patrick Ruffini)说。