DONETSK, Ukraine — Russian and Ukrainian officials on Sunday continued a series of measured steps aimed at decreasing tensions before the countries’ presidents meet this week to discuss the six-month conflict in Ukraine’s east.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——周日，俄罗斯和乌克兰官员继续采取一系列慎重举措，希望降低双方之间的紧张程度。本周，两国总统将举行会晤，就乌克兰东部已经持续了6个月的冲突进行讨论。
Despite the continuing fighting over disputed territories, President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine said he believed that a full cease-fire could soon be achieved under a peace plan that he and Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, had endorsed.
虽然领土争端引发的战火仍在继续，但乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)表示，他相信，根据他与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)支持的和平计划，他们很快就能达成一个全面停火协议。
On Sunday, Russian news agencies reported that Mr. Putin had ordered troops deployed on the Ukrainian border to return to their bases.
周日，几家俄罗斯通讯社报道称，普京已命令部署于俄乌边境的军队返回基地。
It was the second time this year that Mr. Putin had announced that military exercises along the Ukrainian border had been completed and that 17,600 soldiers would be withdrawn to their usual bases.
这是普京今年第二次宣布俄罗斯完成俄乌边境沿线的军事演习，届时将有1.76万名士兵被撤回他们通常所在的基地。
Mr. Putin ordered the pullback from the Rostov region, which borders Ukraine, in a meeting with his defense minister, Sergei K. Shoigu, the Interfax news agency reported, citing Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov.
俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)在报道中援引普京发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)的话说，普京已在与国防部长谢尔盖·K·绍伊古(Sergei K. Shoigu)的一次会议中命令军队撤离与乌克兰接壤的罗斯托夫地区。
The presence of Russian troops along the border was seen by the West as a possible preparation for an invasion of Ukraine, or as a staging ground for Russian troops to secretly fight alongside Ukraine’s separatists. Russia has denied both allegations.
西方国家认为，俄罗斯军队之所以驻扎在边境沿线，可能是为了入侵乌克兰做准备，或者是作为俄罗斯军队的大本营，使他们能与乌克兰分裂分子并肩作战。俄罗斯则已否认了这两项指控。
In May, Mr. Putin announced in a meeting with diplomats from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe that a military exercise in western Russia near the border with Ukraine had been completed and that soldiers would withdraw from the region, though many remained.
5月，普京在与欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)外交官的会晤中宣布，在靠近乌克兰边境的俄罗斯西部的一次军事演习已经完成，士兵会从该地区撤回，但许多人仍然留在了那里。
Mr. Poroshenko said on Sunday that he expected “difficult negotiations” with Mr. Putin when the two meet in Milan for the Asia-Europe Meeting this week.
波罗申科周日表示，他预计，本周他在于米兰举行的亚欧峰会上与普京会面时将进行“艰难的协商”。
In a transcript of an address published on his official website, Mr. Poroshenko said that he desired “unshakable independence, territorial integrity, inviolability of borders, and the restoration of peace.”
波罗申科在发布在其官方网站上的一份讲话文稿中表示，他要求“无可争辩的独立、领土完整、边境安全，以及和平的恢复”。
“We believe it will already become possible in the coming days to achieve a full cease-fire,” Mr. Poroshenko said.
波罗申科说，“我们相信，未来一些天里有可能达成全面停火协议。”