The Russian state oil company, Rosneft, intends to sign a major contract to supply China with more than $60 billion of crude oil, a deal that could signal a small shift away from Western Europe toward Asia.
俄罗斯国有石油公司俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)有意签署一份向中国供应逾600亿美元原油的大合同，该交易或许表明，俄罗斯打算把重点从西欧略微转向亚洲。
Russia has been gradually opening its oil spigot to China in recent years. While the overall volume of Russia’s oil output has remained level, the country has decreased sales to recession-plagued Europe.
最近几年，俄罗斯一直在逐步向中国开放石油供应。尽管该国的石油总产量持平，其石油销量还是因欧洲被衰退所困而下降。
“Without any exaggeration a large-scale contract has been prepared by Rosneft,” said President Vladimir V. Putin said after a meeting on Thursday with China’s vice premier, Zhang Gaoli. Supplies to China are expected to reach “volumes of hundreds of millions of tons of oil, in total worth more than $60 billion” Mr. Putin said, though he provided no further details about the hefty contract.
“毫不夸张地说，俄罗斯石油公司已准备好签署一份大规模合同，”弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统在周四会见中国副总理张高丽之后说。普京说，对中国的石油供应有望达到“数亿吨，总价值超过600亿美元”，但他没有透露更多关于这一巨额合同的信息。
Even a modest shift could have a significant effect on Europe, raising prices across the region. Russia is now the largest oil producer in the world, pumping about 10 million barrels a day, slightly more than Saudi Arabia.
即使是轻微的转变也可能对欧洲造成显著的影响，致使该地区的石油价格上扬。俄罗斯如今是世界上最大的石油生产国，日产量为大约1000万桶，略多于沙特阿拉伯。
Currently, Russia exports about a fifth of its oil output to Asia. It pipes oil directly to China after a trans-Siberian pipeline was completed in 2010 that overcame decades of tension along the long and remote border between Siberia and Manchuria.
目前，大约有五分之一的俄罗斯石油出口亚洲。在跨西伯利亚输油管线于2010年建成之后，俄罗斯可以直接向中国输送石油。西伯利亚和中国东北之间的边界漫长而荒凉，且几十年来关系紧张，但该工程还是克服了这些困难，最终建成。
Mr. Putin told Mr. Zhang that he hopes two Russian gas companies, Gazprom and Novatek, will similarly strike deals to export energy to China. Energy analysts said Rosneft has also been negotiating with Chinese companies to form joint ventures to drill in the Russian sector of the Arctic Ocean above eastern Siberia, after granting similar deals to Exxon Mobil, Eni of Italy and the Norwegian oil company Statoil to drill in the Kara Sea, an inlet on the western side of the long coastline.
普京对张高丽说，他希望，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)和天然气公司(Novatek)这两家俄罗斯天然气公司也能和中国达成类似的能源出口交易。能源分析人士称，出口石油之外，俄罗斯石油公司还一直在和中国公司商议共建合资企业事宜，以便在东西伯利亚以北的俄属北冰洋海域开采石油。俄罗斯之前曾和埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)、意大利的埃尼集团(Eni)以及挪威国家石油公司(Statoil)达成类似交易，允许这些公司在喀拉海钻取石油。喀拉海是位于俄罗斯漫长海岸线西边的海域。
The Rosneft deal would become the latest in a series of financial transactions between Russian energy companies and China.
俄罗斯石油公司的交易将成为俄罗斯能源公司与中国之间一系列金融交易当中的最新个例。
Rosneft first took a loan of $6 billion from Chinese state banks as prepayment for oil exports in 2005. The company, in turn, used the money to finance its takeover of the largest production unit of Yukos oil company, after the imprisonment of the founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, an episode criticized by Western governments but not the Chinese.
该公司首先从中国国有银行贷款60亿美元，以此作为2005年石油出口的预付款。接下来，该公司用这笔钱收购了尤科斯石油公司(Yukos Oil)最大的生产部门，后者的创始人米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)此前已被投入监狱，这一幕受到了西方各国政府的批评，中国人则没有表示。
In 2009, Chinese banks lent $25 billion to Rosneft and the state oil pipeline monopoly, Transneft, to complete the trans-Siberian pipeline, called the East Siberian-Pacific Ocean pipeline. Under the terms of the deal, the banks would be repaid with 2.5 billion barrels of oil exported to China over 20 years from 2010 until 2030.
2009年，中国几家银行借给俄罗斯石油公司和该国国有石油管道垄断企业俄罗斯石油运输公司(Transneft)250亿美元，用以完成一条跨西伯利亚输油管线，名为东西伯利亚-太平洋(East Siberian-Pacific Ocean)管线。根据协议条款，这些银行得到的补偿则是25亿桶原油，原油将在从2010年到2030年的20年间出口到中国。
Both sides have benefited. The volume of oil amounted to 4 percent of China’s oil demand over that period. On the Russian side, the loan helped stabilize Russia’s balance of payments crisis in the recession that began in 2008.
双方都从中受益。这些原油的总量相当于这一时期中国石油需求量的4%。从俄罗斯方面来看，这笔贷款帮助抑制了始于2008年的大衰退所带来的贸易收支危机。
The latest Chinese deal will most likely allow the Russian government to delay a planned privatization of 19 percent of Rosneft’s shares, which faced political opposition. It also suggests closer financial ties with China, which could help Russia weather its current economic slump.
俄罗斯政府计划将俄罗斯石油公司19%的股份私有化，最新的中国交易很可能会使俄罗斯政府得以推迟这一计划，这一计划曾受到政治上的反对。交易还表明了俄罗斯与中国之间更紧密的经济关系，这可能有助于俄罗斯挺过当前的经济衰退。