MOSCOW — With a referendum on secession looming in Crimea, Russia massed troops and armored vehicles in at least three regions along Ukraine’s eastern border on Thursday, alarming the interim Ukraine government about a possible invasion and significantly escalating tensions in the crisis between the Kremlin and the West.
莫斯科——在克里米亚即将就退出乌克兰举行公投之际，俄罗斯周四在与乌克兰东部边境接壤的至少三个地区部署了大批部队和装甲车辆，引起了乌克兰临时政府的警觉，认为俄罗斯可能会发动侵略，导致克里姆林宫和西方之间的危机大幅度升级。
The announcement of the troop buildup by Russia’s Defense Ministry was met with an unusually sharp rebuke from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who warned that the Russian government must abandon what she called the politics of the 19th and 20th centuries or face diplomatic and economic retaliation from a united Europe.
俄罗斯国防部公布的增兵部署，引来德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)一通不同寻常的严厉指责，她告诫俄罗斯政府，必须放弃她所说的19和20世纪政治，否则团结一心的欧洲将在外交和经济上采取报复行动。
“Ladies and gentlemen, if Russia continues on its course of the past weeks, it will not only be a catastrophe for Ukraine,” she said in a speech to the German Parliament. “We, also as neighbors of Russia, would not only see it as a threat. And it would not only change the European Union’s relationship with Russia. No, this would also cause massive damage to Russia, economically and politically.”
“女士们先生们，如果俄罗斯沿着过去几周的方向继续走下去，大祸临头的就不只是乌克兰了，”她在对德国国会的讲话中说。“我们也是俄罗斯的邻国，我们不能只是把这当做一个威胁。这不会仅仅只改变欧盟和俄罗斯的关系。不，它还会给俄罗斯的经济和政治带来巨大伤害。”
Ms. Merkel’s words reflected the rapid evolution of the Ukraine crisis from a regional conflict to a full-blown East-West confrontation that threatens a deep rupture in relations between Moscow and an increasingly unified European Union and the United States. That a leader of Germany, which has traditionally sought to bridge the East-West divide, should speak so forcefully was a further indication of the seriousness and depth of the potential breach.
从默克尔的措辞可以看到，乌克兰危机正在从一场地区冲突迅速演变为东西方的全面对抗，联合日益紧密的欧盟和美国面临着与俄罗斯的决裂。德国一贯致力于消除东西隔阂，其领导人能发出如此强硬的言论，进一步表明这场潜在的决裂是极为严峻而深重的。
In a congressional appearance on Thursday, Secretary of State John Kerry asserted that Russia had not yet made the military preparations to undertake a full-scale invasion of all of Ukraine, though he stressed “that could change very quickly and we recognize that.”
在周四的一次国会讲话中，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)明确表示，俄罗斯还没有就大规模入侵乌克兰全境展开军事准备，但是他强调“情况随时可能改变，这一点我们是有认识的”。
Mr. Kerry said his hope was “not to create hysteria or excessive concern about that at this point of time.”
克里说他希望“在这个时候不要就此事制造恐慌或过分担忧。”
“Our hope is to be able to avoid that,” he added. “But there’s no telling that we can.”
“我们希望能够避免出现这种情况，”他还说。“但是我们不知道是否能做到。”
Mr. Kerry will meet his counterpart from Russia, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov, on Friday in London, seeking a way to de-escalate the crisis.
克里将于周五在伦敦与俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)会面，想方设法缓解这场危机。
As Russia turned up the heat, the United States was trying to tamp it down. An American official said that the Obama administration had deferred a request from Ukraine’s interim government for military assistance like arms and ammunition, although the administration was “still considering” it. The Ukrainian request and administration response were first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
一边是俄罗斯在添柴，一边是美国想灭火。一位美国官员说，奥巴马政府暂时没有应乌克兰临时政府的要求给予武器和弹药等军事援助，但政府“仍在考虑”此事。《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)率先报道了乌克兰的要求与政府的回应。
Until Thursday, the Russian military actions had been largely confined to asserting control over the Crimean peninsula, the largely Russian-populated area in southern Ukraine that took steps a week ago to secede and join Russia following the ouster of the pro-Kremlin government in Ukraine last month. A Crimean referendum, which Ukraine, the United States and the European Union have called illegal, is set to ratify that decision on Sunday.
截至周四，俄罗斯的军事行动很大程度上仅限于确保对克里米亚半岛的控制，随着上个月乌克兰的亲俄政府被推翻，乌克兰南部这个以俄罗斯族人口为主的地区在一周前采取行动，试图脱乌入俄。按照计划，被乌克兰、美国和欧盟视为非法的克里米亚公投，将在周日令这一决定正式生效。
But the buildup on Ukraine’s eastern border with Russia signaled possible further moves by the Kremlin to reassert authority by force over territory, also heavily populated by Russians, forfeited in the Soviet Union breakup two decades ago.
然而，俄罗斯向乌克兰东部边境增兵的决定意味着，克里姆林宫有可能会采取进一步行动，用武力夺回对该地区的控制，那里同样有大量的俄罗斯族人口，是二十年前苏联解体时交出的。
Underscoring the potential gravity of the troop movements, Russia’s senior commander, Valery V. Gerasimov, spoke by telephone with his NATO counterpart, Gen. Knud Bartels of Denmark, the news agency Interfax reported, citing a defense source. The details of the conversation were not disclosed.
新闻机构俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引一名国防人士的话说，俄罗斯军方高级指挥官瓦列里·V·格拉希莫夫(Valery V. Gerasimov)曾与北约(NATO)的同级别人物、丹麦人克努·巴特尔斯上将(Gen. Knud Bartels)通电话，突显了调遣部队一事的严重程度。双方通话的具体细节没有披露。