BERLIN — Germany and Russia, friends or foes for centuries but always near neighbors, have special, deep ties unlike those between the Kremlin and any other outside power. It was that relationship, and the select few people who enjoy access to it, that won freedom for Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former oil billionaire suddenly granted clemency by President Vladimir V. Putin and flown to Berlin.
柏林——几个世纪以来，不管是敌是友，德国和俄罗斯始终都是近邻，两国之间深厚的特殊关系不同于克里姆林宫同其他任何外部力量之间的关系。正是凭借这种关系，以及少许能利用这种关系的精英人士，米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)才获得了自由。在突然得到俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的特赦后，这位前石油大亨乘飞机抵达了柏林。
Chancellor Angela Merkel, a Russian speaker who has a matter-of-fact, occasionally frosty relationship to Mr. Putin, and her Social Democratic predecessor, Gerhard Schröder, who maintains warm ties to the Russian leader, both raised Mr. Khodorkovsky’s case with Mr. Putin over the decade of his imprisonment. But it was a highly experienced former foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who at the age of 86 achieved an agreement with Mr. Putin.
在霍多尔科夫斯基身陷囵圄的十年间，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和她的前任、同属社会民主党(Social Democratic)的杰哈德·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)均曾向普京提及霍多尔科夫斯基的案件。默克尔与普京保持着公事公办、时或紧张的关系，施罗德倒是依然与这位俄罗斯领导人保持着友好关系。不过，与普京达成协议的却是经验非常丰富的前外长、即将步入86岁高龄的汉斯-迪特里希·根舍(Hans-Dietrich Genscher)。
That involved two personal meetings between Mr. Genscher and Mr. Putin – one at Berlin’s Tegel airport at the end of Mr. Putin’s first visit to Germany after he was re-elected in 2012, the other in Moscow, according to the German news media and statements from Mr. Genscher himself.
此事涉及根舍与普京的两次私人会晤。根据德国新闻媒体的报道和根舍自己的声明，其中一次是在柏林的泰格尔(Tegel)机场，那次会面是普京2012年再次当选俄罗斯总统后首访德国的最后一项安排，另外一次是在莫斯科。
Ms. Merkel was kept informed of the highly secret talks, as was the top echelon of the German Embassy in Moscow, which expedited a visa for Mr. Khodorkovsky late last week once it became clear from Mr. Putin’s surprising talk of clemency on Thursday that it would be granted, probably swiftly.
默克尔和德国驻莫斯科大使馆的高层都知道这两次高度机密的会谈。上周四，普京出人意料地宣布了赦免决定，表明霍多尔科夫斯基会被赦免，而且可能很快得到赦免。此后，德国大使馆于上周晚些时候向霍多尔科夫斯基发放了签证。
In his prison near the Finnish border, Mr. Khodorkovsky said he followed the suddenly rapid events on radio and television. First, he heard Mr. Putin, during his annual news conference, all but rule out a third case against him. Then he saw Mr. Putin, speaking to reporters after the news conference, suddenly raise the prospect of clemency.
霍多尔科夫斯基说，之前他待在俄罗斯与芬兰边境附近的监狱里，通过收音机和电视关注突然加速的事态进展。一开始，他听到普京在年度新闻发布会上几乎排除了第三次起诉他的可能。后来，他看见普京在新闻发布会后向记者讲话，其间突然提到了赦免他的可能性。
Mr. Khodorkovsky’s first thought was to gather up his valuable papers, and prepare to leave, he said over the weekend. The few people in the prison who spoke with him – it was risky for prisoners to do so, he told The New Times weekly, a Russian newspaper – shook his hand in congratulations. The inmates, like Mr. Khodorkovsky, understood that in the way the Russian system works, once Mr. Putin had mentioned clemency, his most famous prisoner would be leaving soon.
霍多尔科夫斯基周末说，当时他最先想到的就是收拾好贵重文件，准备出狱。平常和他交谈的少数几个狱友——他告诉俄罗斯周报《新时报》(The New Times)周报，对狱友来说，和他交谈是件有风险的事情——跟他握了手，向他表示祝贺。像霍多尔科夫斯基这样的犯人都明白，根据俄罗斯体制的运作方式，一旦普京提到特赦，他任内这个最有名的犯人很快就能出狱了。
Mr. Khodorkovsky said he went to bed as usual, and had no trouble sleeping. Shortly after 2 a.m. Friday, he was awoken, and told to leave. He was flown eventually to St. Petersburg, and on to Germany, where he was greeted by Mr. Genscher and Alexander Rahr, a German academic with close ties to the Kremlin.
霍多尔科夫斯基说，他照常上床睡觉，而且睡得很好。周五凌晨2点过后不久，有人叫醒他，通知他出狱。他最终乘飞机抵达圣彼得堡，随后又前往德国，迎接他的是根舍，以及与克里姆林宫关系密切的德国学者亚历山大·拉赫尔(Alexander Rahr)。
Mr. Genscher, who was Europe’s longest serving foreign minister when he stepped down after 18 years in the post in 1992, citing ill health, has long had a reputation as a dealmaker who preserves secrets but gives involved parties the sense they are getting what they seek. It was characteristic on Friday that he gave a brief statement to German television, saying that he did not see Mr. Putin’s act as staged, but one that was seriously weighed and considered. He declined to elaborate on his own part. “What is important is the result,” Mr. Genscher said. “That a man who spent 10 years in prison is now free.”
1992年，根舍以健康不佳为由卸任外长一职。他担任外长一职18年，是欧洲任职时间最长的外长。长期以来，他一直有着交易促成者的声誉，既懂得保守秘密，又能让涉事方觉得自己想要的东西已经近在眼前。周五，他按照惯常的风格对德国电视台发表了一份简短声明，称他认为普京的行为不是作秀，而是经过了认真的权衡和考量。他拒绝细说自己起到的作用。“重要的是结果，”根舍说，“一个在监狱里生活了10年的人现在自由了。”
Ms. Merkel, commenting on Friday on Mr. Khodorkovsky’s release, said it was the result of “a window of possibilities” that had opened. She did not explain, but the phrasing suggested she was not only aware of the top-secret negotiations – which as chancellor she would have to be – but also informed about their pace.
上周五，默克尔在评价霍多尔科夫斯基获释时表示，这是“可能性之窗”已经打开的结果。她没有给出解释，但这句措辞暗示，她不仅知晓相关的绝密谈判——作为总理她必须知晓此事——还对谈判的进程有所了解。
It was not clear if her reference to a “window” was an allusion to the Winter Olympic games in Sochi, which Mr. Putin clearly sees as the prestige project of his presidency, allocating tens of billions of dollars to staging what he hopes will be a spectacle.
目前还不清楚，她所说的“窗口”是不是指在索契举办的冬奥会。普京显然把冬奥会视为一个彰显总统威望的项目，为此划拨了数百亿美元的资金，希望把它办成一场盛会。
Mr. Khodorkovsky himself said on Sunday that he thought his release was due in part to Sochi and Mr. Putin’s desire to burnish Russia’s image.
霍多尔科夫斯基本人周六表示，他认为，自己的获释部分应归因于索契冬奥会，以及普京提升俄罗斯形象的意愿。
Mr. Genscher is one of a cluster of aged, experienced figures who enjoy great respect in Germany and continue to be well connected long after having left office.
根舍是一批年高德劭、经验丰富的德国政要当中的一员，虽然离任已久，但却依然维持着良好的人脉关系。
Former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who turned 95 on Monday, is another such figure. On a self-described farewell tour of various countries, he was in Moscow in recent weeks to see retired officials he knows from the Soviet era, and was then invited to meet Mr. Putin in the Kremlin. The two discussed Russian-German ties, and how whether they are enemies, as in World War II, or on the same side, as in rejoicing in Napoleon’s defeat in Russia in 1812, they will always be dealing with one another, Mr. Schmidt said.
本周一年满95岁的德国前总理赫尔穆特·施密特(Helmut Schmidt)是又一名类似的政要。他正在进行自己所说的游历多国的告别之旅，最近数周一直停留在莫斯科，探望自己从苏联时代就认识的退休官员，之后还应邀在克林姆林宫会见了普京。两人讨论了俄德关系，施密特说，不管是像二战期间那样相互为敌，还是像在1812年那样同为拿破仑在俄国遭遇惨败而欢庆，两国始终免不了要和对方打交道。
As Ms. Merkel noted last Friday, Russia is always “a strategic partner.” And so, even after Mr. Khodorkovsky’s release, there will be “further discussions about other points on which we certainly still have differing opinions.”
正如默克尔上周五指出的那样，俄罗斯素来是德国的“战略伙伴”。所以，即使霍多尔科夫斯已经获释，双方还会“就两国必定仍有分歧的其他一些问题展开进一步的讨论”。