Passengers and some crew members aboard a research ship that has been stuck in thick Antarctic ice for nearly a week will be evacuated by helicopter, the Russian Foreign Ministry said Monday.
周一，俄罗斯外交部表示，将通过直升机撤离被困科考船上的乘客及一些船员，这艘科考船陷入南极洲厚冰层已有将近一周的时间。
The ministry said in a statement that because icebreakers had been unable to clear a path to the chartered Russian ship, the Akademik Shokalskiy, a helicopter aboard one of the icebreakers would be used to ferry 52 scientists, graduate students, journalists and tourists and four crew members to safety when weather permits. The rest of the 22-member crew will remain on board to maintain the ship.
外交部发表声明称，由于破冰船一直无法开辟通往俄罗斯租赁船只“绍卡利斯基院士号”(Akademik Shokalskiy)的路径，他们将在天气允许的情况下，利用破冰船上的一架直升机将52名科学家、研究生、记者和游客及四名船员运送至安全地带。船上共有22名船员，其余船员将会留下，保持科考船的运行。
High winds and snow earlier on Monday forced an Australian icebreaker to abandon its attempt to reach the icebound ship. A Chinese icebreaker failed in a similar attempt on Saturday; it carries the helicopter that will be used in the evacuation. The Russian ministry said the evacuated passengers and crew members would be taken aboard the Chinese ship, the Xue Long.
周一早些时候，暴风雪迫使澳大利亚的一艘破冰船放弃了到达冰封船只的尝试。周六，中国“雪龙号”破冰船的类似尝试也宣告失败，该破冰船的直升机将被用于撤离工作。俄罗斯外交部表示，撤离的乘客和船员将被送上“雪龙号”。
The 233-foot Shokalskiy became stuck in the ice last Tuesday when strong winds pushed loose pack ice up against it near Cape de la Motte, about 1,700 miles south of Hobart, Tasmania. It is carrying the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, scientists and tourists who are studying changes to the environment of East Antarctica in the century since the region was first explored.
233英尺（约合71米）长的“绍卡利斯基院士号”于上周二受困冰层，该船当时位于塔斯马尼亚岛霍巴特以南1700英里处的德拉莫特角附近，强风把大块浮冰吹到了船的周围。这艘船上搭载着包括科学家和游客在内的澳大拉西亚南极考察队(Australasian Antarctic Expedition)，他们正在研究东南极洲在人类首次探索后一个世纪里的环境变化。
The Australian icebreaker, the Aurora Australis, which had been diverted from a supply mission to the Australian Antarctic base, Casey Station, reached the area early Monday, entered the pack ice and got within 12 miles of the Shokalskiy, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which is coordinating the rescue operation.
负责协调此次救援行动的澳大利亚海洋安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)表示，澳大利亚的“南极光号”(Aurora Australis)破冰船奉命停止在凯西站(Casey Station)的补给任务，于周一早晨赶到该区域，穿过浮冰，到达了距离“绍卡利斯基院士号”不到12英里的地方。
But the authority said in a statement that poor visibility due to the snow and winds of up to 35 miles an hour made it unsafe for the icebreaker to continue. It is now in open water about 20 miles away, the authority said.
但该机构在声明中表示，由于大雪及风速达每小时35英里的强风，能见度非常低，破冰船继续前进会有危险。该机构表示，“南极光号”破冰船现在位于距离被困科考船约20英里的开放水域。
The Xue Long was about two months into a five-month Chinese Antarctic expedition when it was asked to help with the rescue.
收到救援请求时，“雪龙号”正在执行为期五个月的中国南极探险计划，该计划已经进行了两个月左右。
The Russian ministry’s statement did not say where those evacuated from the Shokalskiy would be taken, but in addition to Casey Station, which is more than 500 miles to the west, there is a French station at Dumont d’Urville, about 100 miles to the east.
俄罗斯外交部的声明没有提及“绍卡利斯基院士号”的撤离人员将被送到什么地方，不过，除了西边500多英里处的凯西站之外，往东100英里左右就是法国的迪蒙·迪维尔站(Dumont d’Urville)。
In an earlier phone interview from the ship, Chris Turney, a leader of the research expedition and a professor of climate change at the University of New South Wales in Australia, said that all aboard were well and that morale was high. The ship has enough food and other necessities to last several weeks.
早些时候，科考队负责人、澳大利亚新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales)研究气候变化的教授克里斯·特尼(Chris Turney)在船上接受电话采访时说，船上成员状况良好，士气高昂。船上有足以维持几周的食物和其他生活必需品。
The expedition, including 20 tourists, set sail from Bluff, New Zealand, on Dec. 8 on what was to be a monthlong voyage. The expedition is retracing some of the travels and replicating some of the studies of the Australian geologist Douglas Mawson, who first explored East Antarctica from 1911 to 1914.
这个科考队还包括20名游客。队伍于12月8日从新西兰的布拉夫出发，行程原计划持续一个月。考察队正在重走澳大利亚地质学家道格拉斯·莫森(Douglas Mawson)的一些旅行线路，重现他的一些研究。莫森在1911年到1914年率先探索了东南极洲。
The ship anchored at the edge of pack ice on Dec. 18, and Dr. Turney and others spent a day journeying about 45 miles across the ice to Mawson’s hut. The ship then headed east through open water. But as it began heading north, Dr. Turney said, it “ran afoul of very strong winds” that pushed the loose ice in its way.
这艘船12月18日停靠在了一大块浮冰的边上，特尼博士等人用一天的时间在冰面上行走了大约45英里，抵达了莫森的小屋。科考船随后在开放的水面上向东行驶。但在它开始向北行驶时，“遇到了非常强劲的风力”，被漂浮的冰块阻挡了去路。
“It pegged us in,” he said, and the frozen expanse quickly grew as more ice piled up. “At first we were just two nautical miles from getting to open water, and now it’s 20.”
他说，“风把我们”嵌在了冰里，随着浮冰的积累，冰面迅速扩大。他说，“最初我们离水面只有两海里，现在却有20海里。”
Even though it is summer in the Antarctic, waiting for the ice to break up on its own is not an option, Dr. Turney said, because of the risk that the ship could drift along with the ice and collide with one of several icebergs in the area.
特尼博士说，在南极洲，即使是夏天，等着冰层自己化开也是不可行的，因为船可能会和浮冰一起漂浮，与该地区若干冰山中的某座相撞。冰山和大块浮冰都在漂浮，但彼此独立。
Since the ship became stuck, Dr. Turney and others have been a regular presence on Twitter and other social media sites. Some have made short videos describing their experiences.
船被困住后，特尼等人一直在Twitter和其他社交媒体上频繁发布信息。一些人制作了短视频，描述他们的经历。
Dr. Turney said that some of the people aboard had gone onto the ice to study birds and to make other scientific observations, and that others had occupied themselves on board with ad hoc classes in subjects like knot tying.
特尼说，船上的一些人到冰上去研究鸟类，或是进行其他的科学观察，另外一些人则在船上的临时课堂上学习打结等技能。
And a steady diet of films has been available to help pass the time, he said.
他说，船上还不间断地播放电影，帮人们打发时间。
“At first, people were starting to watch disaster movies,” Dr. Turney added. “But I had to stop that.” Now it is mostly comedies, although episodes of the hit series “Breaking Bad” have been popular, too.
特尼补充说，“起初，人们开始看灾难片。我不得不阻止他们。”现在他们看的主要是喜剧片，不过，热门美剧《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)也很受欢迎。