ISTANBUL — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said on Monday that he was scrapping a major project to deliver more natural gas to European countries, and would turn instead to Turkey, offering lower prices and expanded pipeline capacity.
伊斯坦布尔——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周一表示，他将废弃一个涉及向欧洲国家输送更多天然气的重大项目，并将转向土耳其，为其调低价格并提高管道输送能力。
The scrapped project, known as South Stream, was meant to deliver Russian gas to southern Europe through a pipeline under the Black Sea. Problems obtaining construction permits in Bulgaria had already brought the project to a standstill.
被废除的项目名为南溪(South Stream)，原本打算通过黑海海底的管道，将俄罗斯的天然气输送到欧洲南部。此前，该项目在保加利亚获取施工许可时遇到问题，因而已经陷入停滞。
Mr. Putin criticized Bulgaria in remarks to reporters at a joint news conference in Ankara with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. Mr. Putin said that Bulgaria had given in to pressure from the European Union and had harmed its own national interests, sacrificing 400 million euros (about $500 million) in annual revenue it would have earned from South Stream.
普京与土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)在安卡拉举行了联合新闻发布会，并在面向记者的发言中指责保加利亚。普京称，保加利亚屈服于欧盟的压力，损害了自己的国家利益，失去了本可从南溪项目中得到的每年4亿欧元（约合31亿元人民币）的收入。
“We believe that the European Commission’s position was not constructive,” Mr. Putin said at the news conference, which was broadcast live across Russia in prime time. “If Europe does not want to complete this, then it will not be completed,” he added.
“我们认为，欧盟委员会(European Commission)采取的不是建设性的姿态，”普京在新闻发布会上说。“如果欧洲不想完成这个项目，那它就完成不了，”他接着说。新闻发布会在黄金时段面向全俄罗斯现场直播。
Shortly after the news conference, Aleksei Miller, the head of the Russian state energy giant Gazprom, called the South Stream project “closed” and said the pipeline through Turkey would eventually have an annual capacity of 63 billion cubic meters of gas.
发布会结束后不久，俄罗斯国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气）负责人阿列克谢·米勒(Alexei Miller)表示南溪项目已“结束”，并称经过土耳其的管道的年输送能力最终将达到630亿立方米天然气。
After meeting all day with Turkish officials, the Russian delegation accompanying Mr. Putin agreed to provide Turkey with 3 billion additional cubic meters of gas each year, and would reduce its price by 6 percent, with further reductions possible in the future.
在与土耳其官员进行了一整天的会谈后，随同普京出访的俄罗斯代表团同意每年向土耳其额外提供30亿立方米天然气，并将价格下调6%，且未来还有进一步降价的可能。
Russia and Turkey set aside their political disagreements on Syria and the annexation of Crimea to reach several bilateral trade agreements and strengthen their economic ties, at a time when the United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions against Russia over the crisis in Ukraine. The Turkish government has not joined the sanctions, saying it will do no good to try to isolate Russia.
在美国和欧盟因乌克兰境内的危机而对俄罗斯实行制裁之际，为了达成多项双边贸易协议，并加强经济联系，俄罗斯和土耳其将双方在叙利亚问题和克里米亚遭吞并一事上的政治分歧搁置在了一边。土耳其政府未响应制裁号召，称尝试孤立俄罗斯于事无益。