MOSCOW — Russia has decided to reopen an electronic eavesdropping post in Cuba that it closed more than a decade ago, reaching out for a onetime symbol of its global superpower status, Russian officials and newspaper reports said on Wednesday.
莫斯科——俄罗斯官员和媒体周三表示，该国决定重新启用位于古巴的一所电子监听站，这座监听站曾于十多年前关闭。此举让俄罗斯重拾其过往全球强国地位的一个标志。
President Vladimir V. Putin agreed with Cuba’s leader, Raúl Castro, during a visit to Cuba last week to reopen the post. In exchange, Mr. Putin agreed to forgive about 90 percent of Cuba’s Soviet-era debt to Russia, or about $32 billion. News of the debt relief emerged last week, but the agreement to reopen the listening post was first reported Wednesday by the Russian newspaper Kommersant.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在上周访问古巴时，与古巴领导人劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)达成了共识。作为交换，普京同意免除古巴在苏联时代欠俄罗斯的90%债务，约有320亿美元（人民币1990亿元）。免除债务的消息上周就流传了出来，但重启监听站的协议最早是俄罗斯《生意人报》(Kommersant)周三报道的。
Members of the Russian Parliament appeared to confirm the report in public statements praising what seemed to be a step by Russia toward re-establishing a military presence in Cuba, at a time when the conflict in Ukraine has sent Russian-American relations spiraling to their lowest point since the end of the Cold War.
俄罗斯国会议员在一份公开声明中，对该国采取的一项似乎意在在古巴重建军事存在的举动表达了赞赏，这番声明似乎印证了以上的报道。此时，俄罗斯与美国之间的关系因为乌克兰危机，已陷入冷战以来的最低点。
Russia vacated the listening post site at Lourdes, outside Havana, in 2001. At the time, Mr. Putin cited the strapped finances of the post-Soviet Russian government and said the war in Chechnya was a higher priority than maintaining a Cold War relic half a world away.
俄罗斯在2001年撤出了这座位于哈瓦那城外的洛尔德斯(Lourdes)的监听站。当时普京给出的理由是后苏联时代的俄罗斯政府财政拮据，并说车臣战争比维护一座相隔半个地球的冷战遗迹更加重要。
The United States Congress had also pressed Russia to move out of Lourdes, linking the abandonment of the site with deals to restructure Russia’s heavy foreign debt.
美国国会也曾向俄罗斯施压，要求从洛尔德斯监听站撤出，并将放弃监听站与对俄罗斯巨额外债进行债务重组的协议相挂钩。
Russia closed a listening post at Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam, at that time as well. There were no indications on Wednesday that the Kremlin intended to revive that post.
当时，俄罗斯还关闭了位于越南金兰湾的一所监听站。周三没有迹象表明，克里姆林宫有意重启那一座监听站。
In its heyday, the Soviet signals intelligence base at Lourdes enabled Moscow to listen in on microwave transmissions of telephone conversations in the southeastern United States, keep an eye on the United States Navy in the Atlantic, monitor the space program at Cape Canaveral and communicate with its spies on American soil. In 1993, when Mr. Castro was chief of the Cuban armed forces, he boasted that Russia obtained 75 percent of its strategic intelligence on the United States through Lourdes.
在其鼎盛时期，苏联在洛尔德斯的情报信号基地使莫斯科能够监听美国东南部，以微波传送的电话通话；关注美国海军在大西洋里的活动；监控卡纳维拉尔角(Cape Canaveral)的太空项目；并与俄罗斯派驻美国本土的间谍进行通讯。1993年，劳尔·卡斯特罗仍是古巴武装部队领导人时，曾炫耀说俄罗斯关于美国的战略情报，有75%来自洛尔德斯监听站。
The facility includes a large array of satellite dishes and antennas spread over about 28 square miles, about 150 miles from the Florida coast. The Kommersant report said that a decade of booming oil revenue meant that Russia could once again afford to operate Lourdes, and that deteriorating relations with the United States prompted a desire to reopen a peephole on a “potential enemy.”
这座监听站配备有规模巨大的碟形和线形卫星天线阵列，绵延28平方英里（7300公顷），距离美国佛罗里达州的海岸只有150英里（240公里）。《生意人报》的报道中说，由于过去十年里石油收入大增，俄罗斯又有了足够的资金来运营洛尔德斯监听站，并且恶化的美俄关系又促使俄罗斯产生了重新打开通道，窥视“潜在敌人”的愿望。
When he was in Havana, Mr. Putin spoke publicly of a revival of military and technological cooperation with Cuba but gave no specifics.
普京访问哈瓦那时，曾公开表示要重新开展与古巴的军事和技术合作，但没有透露更多细节。
The report in Kommersant, citing officials in the Russian security establishment whom the paper did not name, said that Mr. Putin and Mr. Castro had reached an agreement in principle but that details remained to be worked out. “I can just say one thing — finally!” the report quoted one of the officials as saying.
《生意人报》的报道援引俄罗斯安全系统官员的话说，普京和卡斯特罗达成了原则性的协议，然而协议细节尚待确定。报道中称，一位官员说，“我只能说一句话——终于谈成了！”该报没有透露这些官员的姓名。
It was not clear what might be left of the equipment at Lourdes, or how useful it would be after 13 years of technological advances and the gravitation of much communications traffic to fiber-optic and satellite links. Even so, Viktor I. Mukharovsky, a retired colonel, said in a telephone interview that the Russian military was “extraordinarily interested” in reactivating the post, which could help it gauge the state of readiness of the American military, among other things.
目前尚不清楚洛尔德斯监听站的设备还能剩下什么。而经过13年的技术进步，现在大量的通讯流量都通过光缆和卫星链接传输，也并不清楚遗留的设备还能起什么作用。尽管如此，退役上校维克托·I·木哈罗夫斯基(Viktor I. Mukharovsky)在接受电话采访时表示，俄罗斯军方对于重新启用这座监听站“异常地感兴趣”，它能帮助俄军获得美军的备战程度等情报。
“It’s no secret that when we left in 2001, we expected to launch a fleet of radio electronic surveillance satellites,” he said. “But we never found the money, and — speaking softly —our satellite surveillance capabilities are still modest.”
“我们在2001年离开那里时，原打算发射一批无线电的电子监控卫星，这也不是秘密，”他说。“不过我们一直弄不到资金，而且客气点说，我们卫星的监控能力仍然只能算一般。”