LONDON — Russia’s annexation of Crimea has suddenly revived the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s central role as a counterweight to Moscow, and with it questions about the alliance’s options and ability to act.
伦敦——俄罗斯吞并克里米亚一事，突然为北大西洋公约组织(North Atlantic Treaty Organization)制衡莫斯科的核心角色带来了新生，而同时得以突显的，还有关于北约的抉择及其行动能力的种种问题。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. swept into Poland and the Baltic nations last Tuesday with a message of reassurance that their membership in NATO carries the protection of the United States. But given deep Western reluctance to use military force in response to Russia’s aggression, it remains unclear what the alliance’s commitment to collective security means for Ukraine and other nonmembers should President Vladimir V. Putin continue to try to expand Moscow’s influence in the former Soviet bloc.
上周二，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)旋风出访波兰与波罗的海国家，传达的讯息是，向它们保证北约成员国的身份意味着受到美国的保护。不过，鉴于西方极为不愿动用武力来回应俄罗斯的侵略之举，尚不明朗的是，一旦弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)继续尝试在前苏联地区扩张莫斯科的影响力，北约的集体安全保障对乌克兰等非成员国意味着什么？
Ian Bond, the director of foreign policy at the Center for European Reform, a London-based research group, said that “Putin has just given NATO something to do, but the question is whether NATO is up to it.” It is now crucial to deter further moves by Mr. Putin, he said. “If Russian forces move into eastern Ukraine,” he said, “what would NATO do?”
伊恩·邦德(Ian Bond)在伦敦的研究机构欧洲改革中心(Center for European Reform)任外交政策主管，他说，“普京刚刚让北约有事可做了，但问题是，北约能有所作为吗？”他还表示，目前至关重要的是阻止普京进一步行动。“假如俄罗斯部队进入乌克兰东部，北约该怎么办？”他问道。
The Atlantic alliance was designed, as the old phrase went, to keep the Americans in, the Germans down and the Soviets out. Now, with Mr. Putin acting more like a Cold War antagonist, arguing that Russia has the right to defend Russians everywhere, the United States will be under more pressure to sustain and exhibit military strength in Europe despite the much ballyhooed “pivot to Asia.”
老话是这么说的，北约的目标是，让美国进来，让德国下去，让苏联出去。现如今，普京表现得更像是冷战中的对手，辩称俄罗斯有权保护全世界的俄罗斯人。因此，尽管“转向亚洲”的说法被大肆宣传，美国却将面临在欧洲保持并展示军力的更大压力。
Since the Ukraine crisis began, the United States, in the context of the alliance, has sent more F-16 fighters to Poland and F-15 fighters to the Baltics. It has begun Airborne Warning and Control System, or Awacs, flights over the Polish and Romanian borders, and has ordered more exercises with warships in the Black Sea.
乌克兰危机揭幕以来，美国已在北约的框架下分别向波兰和波罗的海国家派出了更多的F-16和F-15战斗机。美国开启了机载警报与控制系统（Airborne Warning and Control System，简称Awacs），让预警机飞临波兰与罗马尼亚的边境，并且下令增加与黑海舰队进行的演习。
“As NATO allies,” President Obama said on Monday, “we have a solemn commitment to our collective defense, and we will uphold that commitment.”
奥巴马总统上周一表示，“作为北约盟国，我们对集体防务许下了郑重承诺，我们也必将遵守这一承诺。”
The Ukraine crisis “is a complete reminder of why NATO is useful,” said Jan Techau, director of Carnegie Europe. “If NATO were not in place, this would be a real existential struggle for Eastern and Western Europe, and it isn’t.”
卡内基欧洲中心(Carnegie Europe)的主任扬·特肖(Jan Techau)说，乌克兰危机“彻底地提醒人们，北约为何有用。假如没有北约，东欧和西欧现在就会为切实的生存问题而挣扎。现实是不用。”
Kadri Liik, an Estonian analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said simply: “It’s good to be in NATO right now.”
欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)的爱沙尼亚分析师卡德莉·利科(Kadri Liik)说得简明扼要：“现在待在北约里真好。”
Some officials, like Foreign Secretary William Hague of Britain, have said that the alliance “is not looking at military options here, this is not a Crimean War.” But Mr. Bond at the Center for European Reform said he thinks such statements are a mistake. “There’s a risk Putin will listen to that and think moving into eastern Ukraine is as limited as taking over South Ossetia and Abkhazia: a couple weeks of weak sanctions,” he said.
一些官员，比如英国外交大臣威廉·黑格(William Hague)已经表态，北约“没有在此寻求军事选项，这不是克里米亚战争。”不过，欧洲改革中心的邦德认为，此类表态是个错误。“有可能普京会听进去，然后认为进军乌克兰东部也跟接管南奥塞梯和阿布哈兹一样后果有限，不过是几周绵软的制裁，”他说。
Instead, Mr. Bond said, he would prefer to see active military exercises, and soon. He said that the United States Army in Europe was scheduled to have an exercise in July in Ukraine, “and it might be worth moving that up.”
邦德表示，他更希望看到积极的军事演习，而且要马上进行。他说，驻欧美军计划今年7月在乌克兰军演，“或许有理由提前进行。”
But reinforced American involvement of that sort is also likely to reduce faltering European efforts, in a time of budget constraints, to create a capable European security and defense identity.
不过，在财政紧张时期，美国加强此类参与也可能让欧洲日渐式微的投入进一步缩减，而这种努力是为了打造一个具备必要能力的欧洲安全与防务整体。
As NATO’s long involvement in Afghanistan concludes, the renewed emphasis on Russia and Europe is also likely to delay the alliance’s efforts to turn itself into a global actor, able to deal with threats like terrorism and cyberwarfare. Those goals were supposed to be the focus of the next NATO summit meeting in September, in Wales.
随着北约对阿富汗问题的长期介入的结束，对俄罗斯和欧洲的重新重视也可能会让该联盟推迟旨在让自己变成全球性力量，有能力应对像恐怖主义和网络战这样的威胁而采取的努力。这些目标本应是下一届北约峰会的重点。峰会将于9月在威尔士召开。
A vital task for the Atlantic alliance now is to ensure that Article 5 — its commitment to collective defense — is seen to be firm and strengthened, said Ivo H. Daalder, a former American ambassador to NATO and now president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. That will mean additional deployments and exercises like November’s Steadfast Jazz, the first Article 5 exercise in more than a decade, which took place near Poland and the Baltics. Far more French troops took part than American ones, something that is likely to change for the next exercise, in 2015, scheduled to take place near the Iberian Peninsula.
美国前驻北约大使、芝加哥全球事务委员会(Chicago Council on Global Affairs)现任主席伊沃·H·达尔德(Ivo H. Daalder)说，眼下对这个大西洋联盟而言，一项至关重要的任务是确保第五条款——集体防御的承诺——看上去是坚定的而且进一步得到加强。这意味着增加部队部署，以及像去年11月举行的“不变的爵士乐”(Steadfast Jazz)那样的演习。那次演习是十多年来首次依据第五条款举行的演习，演习所在地位于波兰和波罗的海国家附近。参加演习的法国兵力远多于美国兵力，这种情况可能会在下次演习时发生变化。下次演习将在2015年举行，预定的演习地点在伊比利亚半岛附近。
“Those allies that joined NATO in the last two decades did so fundamentally because they wanted to be under the security blanket provided by the United States and NATO, and the events of the last three weeks remind them that that’s a good thing,” Mr. Daalder said. “But we have to be very serious about defending these 28 states, and you do it through serious contingency planning, serious exercises like Steadfast Jazz and visible deployments of armed forces.”
“过去二十年间加入北约的那些盟国之所以这么做，从根本上是因为它们希望得到美国和北约提供的安全保护，而过去三周发生的事情提醒他们，这么做是对的，”达尔德说，“但对于保卫这28个国家，我们必须严肃对待，通过制定严肃的应急计划、像‘坚定爵士’那样的严肃军演以及对武装力量进行可见的部署来做到这一点。”