MOSCOW — European antitrust regulators are striking at Gazprom’s core, going after the Russian energy giant’s pricing policies and its politically hued control over natural gas pipelines.
莫斯科——欧洲反垄断监管机构正在对俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气）的核心机制展开攻击，目标包括这家俄罗斯能源巨头的定价策略，及其带有政治色彩的对天然气管道的控制。
But market forces, more than regulatory pressures, are stacking up against the company, as it struggles to maintain its earnings power and geopolitical heft.
但比监管压力更严重的，是对该公司不利的市场力量正在日益累积，而且俄气现在很难维持自己的盈利能力和地缘政治影响力。
Long used by President Vladimir V. Putin to further Russia’s economic and political interests, Gazprom has used its muscle to dictate prices and set terms for natural gas supplies across Europe. This worked for years because customers had few other options.
普京总统长期利用俄气来为俄罗斯获取更多经济和政治利益，该公司也依靠自己实力来支配市场价格，为整个欧洲的天然气供应制定规则。由于客户很少有其他选择，这种状况已经持续多年。
But politics, Gazprom is quickly realizing, are not always good for profits.
但俄气很快意识到，政治并不总是对利润有好处。
Those same policies are making it difficult to maneuver, as Gazprom finds itself competing against a wide array of ever more deft and efficient private drillers and shippers in the natural gas industry. In Europe, cheaper liquefied natural gas shipped from Qatar is taking the place of Gazprom gas.
当俄气发现，天然气行业内各种更加灵活、高效的私人钻探商和运输商在与自己竞争时，同样的政策也令它难有回旋空间。更为廉价的液化天然气正在从卡塔尔运达欧洲，取代该公司的天然气供应。
Gazprom’s direct role in the Kremlin’s foreign policy is only adding to the challenges. As Russia has deepened its ties to Asia, Gazprom has been saddled with a $50 billion commitment to build a new pipeline to China that will take years to produce profits. At home, its substantial debts and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis have sharply limited its borrowing abilities.
俄气在克里姆林宫的外交政策中扮演的直接角色，只会加剧它面临的挑战。俄罗斯决定加强与亚洲的联系，让该公司背负上了500亿美元的支出承诺：修建一条通往中国新管道，而它在多年之后才能产生利润。在国内，其大量债务，加上西方就乌克兰危机实施的制裁，令它的借贷能力大幅受限。
“The biggest problem for Gazprom is its weakness across the board,” said Matthew Rojansky, the director of the Wilson Center’s Kennan Institute for Russian studies in Washington. “That will apply anywhere they try to operate. They are just not the dominant force they were five years ago.”
“俄气的最大问题在于它的整体弱点，”华盛顿威尔逊中心(Wilson Center)凯南研究所(Kennan Institute)的俄罗斯研究主任马修·罗简斯基(Matthew Rojansky)说。“无论他们打算在哪里运营，都有这样的问题。他们显然不是五年前那样的主导者。”
“The difference between Gazprom today, and Gazprom five years ago, is its ability to think in terms of poker, to simply intimidate other people off the table with sheer resources, is gone,” he added.
“用打扑克来做比喻，今天的俄气和五年前的区别在于，当时他们可以直接靠庞大的资源恐吓别人，让别人离开牌桌，但现在不行了，”他说。
Still, politics may trump profits, when it comes to the antitrust case.
不过，在反垄断案件的问题上，政治可能会被摆在利润前面。
The European Commission accused Gazprom Wednesday of abusing its dominance in charging higher prices in Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, countries largely dependent on Russian gas. The company, regulators said, also pursued “an overall strategy to partition Central and Eastern European gas markets,” by reducing customers’ ability to resell the gas to other countries.
本周三，欧盟委员会指控俄气滥用其主导地位，在保加利亚、爱沙尼亚、拉脱维亚、立陶宛和波兰收取更高的价格，这些国家对俄罗斯天然气的依赖程度很高。监管机构称，该公司还奉行“把中欧和东欧的天然气市场分割开来的总体战略”，削弱客户把天然气转卖给其他国家的能力。
Gazprom denied that it had violated any rules, defending its hybrid model that blends corporate and government strategies. Regulators, it expected, would consider that the company has “socially significant functions and has the status of a strategic government-controlled business entity.”
俄气否认自己有违任何规定，为自己采用的融合了企业和政府战略的混合模式进行了辩护。它希望监管机构考虑到自己具有“重大的社会功能，属于政府控制的战略性企业实体”。
The model — and specifically its function for the state — is likely to complicate the case.
这种模式，特别是政府对它的使用，可能会使情况复杂化。
Even though regulators are taking aim at a business strategy that is losing favor, Mr. Putin may not be willing to back down. Gazprom’s pipeline politics have played an important foreign policy role in Eastern Europe for more than a decade.
尽管监管机构把矛头指向了一个正在失去优势的商业战略，普京可能还是不愿意做出让步。十多年来，俄气的管道政治在东欧外交政策上发挥了重要作用。
Still, analysts say that any forceful response is likely to wait until after July, when European Union member states vote on whether to renew financial sanctions on Russia. Russia has been hoping for an easing of sanctions.
尽管如此，分析师说，在今年7月之前，俄罗斯很可能不会做出任何强烈的回应，因为欧盟成员国将在7月举行投票，决定是否延长对俄罗斯的金融制裁。俄罗斯一直希望能放宽制裁。
“If the sector sanctions don’t come off, Russia will hit back,” said Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group. “Worsening energy relations with the E.U. will be one more reason why Russia will see no downside to escalating the fight in Ukraine.”
欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)主席克里夫·库普乾(Cliff Kupchan)表示："如果制裁没有放宽，俄罗斯会进行反击，导致它与欧盟之间的能源关系进一步恶化，从而让俄罗斯有了另一个理由，让他们觉得在乌克兰的战斗升级没有坏处。”
After the fall of Communism, Gazprom seemed to be making a smooth transition to a profit-focused company, from its origins as the Soviet ministry of natural gas. Early in his tenure, Mr. Putin put in place policies that were favorable toward investors, which bolstered profit. When the company lifted restrictions on foreign stock ownership in 2006, its share price briefly soared.
在共产主义制度垮台之后，俄气似乎从苏联的天然气部(Ministry of Gas)顺利地转型为一家专注于营利的企业。在任期之初，普京出台了多项对投资者有利的政策，提振了公司利润。俄气2006年取消对外资持股的限制之后，其股价一度大幅上涨。
Mr. Putin compared its product — energy — to a candy everybody in Europe wanted. But he said it would be held tight in Russia’s “sweaty fist.”
普京将俄气的产品——能源——比作一块在欧洲人人都想要的糖果。但他表示，这块糖会紧紧握在俄罗斯“汗涔涔的拳头”里。
Gazprom became central to a political and economic strategy of reasserting Russia’s influence in the former Soviet and satellite states of Eastern Europe. Gazprom’s gas sales were also a good source of revenue for the Kremlin, adding to the country’s wealth of oil exports.
俄气成了重新确立俄罗斯在前苏联国家和东欧卫星国家影响力的政治和经济战略的核心。除了石油出口的财富，俄气的天然气销售也为克里姆林宫带来了大量收入。
Countries that offered Russia geopolitical advantages, such as the lease of a naval base in Ukraine under the former government, won lower energy prices in exchange. Those that did not were penalized, as when Russia shut off the gas going to Ukraine in 2006 and 2009 and blocked flows to Europe, too.
作为回报，为俄罗斯提供地缘政治优势的国家可以获得较低的能源价格，比如让俄罗斯租用海军基地的乌克兰前政府。不能做到这一点的国家就要受到惩罚，比如，俄罗斯2006年和2009年曾停止向乌克兰输送天然气，对欧洲的供应也因此中断。
But Gazprom’s strategy, the same one under scrutiny by regulators in Europe, has been losing sway.
不过，俄气的战略，也就是目前正在受到欧洲监管机构严格审视的战略，影响力正在减弱。
Sales of the company’s main product, gas shipped by pipeline from Siberia to European utilities, were down one-fifth in the first quarter compared with historical averages, analysts say. Liquefied natural gas shipped from Qatar and elsewhere was cheaper.
俄气主要产品的销售——从西伯利亚通过管道向欧洲公共服务公司输送的天然气——今年第一季度比历史平均水平下降了五分之一。这是因为卡塔尔等地供应的液化天然气要更加便宜。
This year, Gazprom’s base price for natural gas was about $330 per thousand cubic meters, the standard unit for gas trading in Europe. Gas offloaded from liquefied natural gas carriers from the Middle East cost about $270.
今年，俄气的天然气底价是每千立方米330美元。千立方米是欧洲天然气交易的标准单位。来自中东液化天然气供应商的天然气价格约为270美元。
Prices on those cargoes tumbled after the shale gas boom in the United States dried up demand outside Europe. And new liquefied natural gas operations in the United States, according to experts, may further weigh on prices. New supplies of gas are also coming online in the next decade from Azerbaijan and possibly Iran, if tensions ease over that country’s nuclear program.
在美国页岩气的繁荣势头使欧洲以外的需求消失殆尽后，这些货物的价格大幅下跌。据专家介绍，美国新的液化天然气项目可能会进一步让价格承压。下一个十年里，阿塞拜疆也会启动新的天然气供应，伊朗也有可能，如果围绕其核计划的紧张局势有所缓解的话。
With competition rising, customers also are not as willing to sign binding, long-term contracts, the type that Gazprom has readily used.
随着竞争的加剧，消费者也不那么愿意签署俄罗斯乐见的那种有约束力的长期合同。