WASHINGTON — The Russian government declined to provide the F.B.I. with information about one of the Boston Marathon bombing suspects two years before the attack that would most likely have prompted more extensive scrutiny of the suspect, according to an inspector general’s review of how American intelligence and law enforcement agencies could have thwarted the bombing.
华盛顿——一位督察长审查了波士顿马拉松爆炸案，研究美国情报和执法机构如何可以阻止此事的发生。结果显示，在爆炸案发生两年前，俄罗斯政府拒绝向联邦调查局(FBI)提供其中一名嫌疑人的信息；如果俄罗斯提供了相关信息，有关部门很有可能会对嫌疑人进行更详细的审核。
Russian officials had told the F.B.I. in 2011 that the suspect, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, “was a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer” and that Mr. Tsarnaev “had changed drastically since 2010 as he prepared to leave the United States for travel to the country’s region to join unspecified underground groups.”
俄罗斯官员于2011年告诉FBI，犯罪嫌疑人塔梅尔兰·萨纳耶夫(Tamerlan Tsarnaev)“是伊斯兰极端势力的成员和坚定信仰者”，而且萨纳耶夫“自2010年准备离开美国，赴俄罗斯地区加入不明地下组织以来，发生了巨大变化”。
But after an initial investigation by F.B.I. agents in Boston, the Russians declined several bureau requests for additional information they had about Mr. Tsarnaev.
但是，波士顿FBI探员初步调查发现，俄罗斯曾多次拒绝FBI的请求，没有提供他们手中关于萨纳耶夫的额外信息。
At the time, American law enforcement officials believed that Mr. Tsarnaev posed a far greater threat to Russia.
当时，美国执法官员认为萨纳耶夫对俄罗斯的威胁要大得多。
The new inspector general’s report found that it was only after the bombing occurred last April that the Russians shared with the F.B.I. the additional intelligence, including information from a telephone conversation the Russian authorities had intercepted between Mr. Tsarnaev and his mother in which they discussed Islamic jihad.
这份督察长的新报告发现，仅仅在去年4月爆炸案发生后，俄罗斯才与FBI分享了额外的情报，其中包括俄罗斯官方拦截的电话交谈信息——萨纳耶夫和他的母亲在电话中谈论了伊斯兰圣战的问题。
“They found that the Russians did not provide all the information that they had on him back then, and based on everything that was available the F.B.I. did all that it could,” said a senior American official briefed on the review.
一名知悉这次审查的美国高官说，“他们发现，当时俄罗斯并未提供关于此人的全部信息，而且FBI已经根据他们掌握的全部信息，做了所有能做的事。”
Mr. Tsarnaev, who was killed attempting to elude the police, and his brother, Dzhokhar, are believed to be the sole suspects in the attack, which killed three people and injured more than 200 near the marathon’s finish line. The Justice Department said in January that it would seek the death penalty against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
萨纳耶夫在试图逃脱警方追捕的过程中被杀，拒信，除了他与弟弟焦哈尔(Dzhokhar)以外，那起袭击案没有其他嫌疑人；这起发生在马拉松终点线附近的爆炸案共导致三人死亡，200多人受伤。司法部(Justice Department)1月表示，它将寻求将焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫判处死刑。
Federal authorities have uncovered little evidence tying the brothers to an international terrorist organization. F.B.I. agents who traveled to Dagestan, a region in Russia’s North Caucasus where Tamerlan Tsarnaev went in 2012 during a particularly violent period there, found nothing that showed he received training or encouragement from terrorists.
联邦当局没有找到多少将两兄弟与国际恐怖组织联系起来的证据。FBI探员来到位于俄罗斯北高加索地区的达吉斯坦，但是并未发现任何证据能证明他曾受过恐怖分子的训练或怂恿。2012年，塔梅尔兰·萨纳耶夫曾在一段暴力活动尤为频繁的时期去过那里。
“At this point it looks like they were homegrown violent extremists,” the senior official said. “We certainly aren’t in a position to rule anything out, but at this point we haven’t found anything substantive that ties them to a terrorist group.”
“目前看来，他们就像土生土长的暴力极端分子一样，”这名高级官员说。“我们当然不能排除任何可能性，但是我们目前找不到任何实质证据能说明他们与恐怖组织有关。”
The report was produced by the inspector general for the Office of Intelligence Community, which has responsibility for 17 separate agencies, and the inspectors general from the Department of Homeland Security, the Justice Department and the Central Intelligence Agency. It has not been made public, but members of Congress are scheduled to be briefed on it Thursday, and some of its findings are expected to be released before Tuesday, the first anniversary of the bombings.
这份报告由美国情报体系办公室(Office of Intelligence Community)、国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)、司法部和中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)的督察长提供。美国情报体系办公室对17个单独机构负责。目前该报告尚未公布，但是按计划，有关人员将于周四就此通报国会议员，而且还将于周二，即波士顿爆炸案的第一周年纪念日前公布报告得出的一些结论。
Its contents were described by several senior American officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the report has not been publicly released.
几名美国高官对报告内容进行了描述，但是由于报告尚未公开发布，所以这些官员要求匿名。
The review is similar to an internal reviews the F.B.I. conducted after the bombing. In that review, the bureau found that its agents had been restrained from conducting a more extensive investigation because of federal laws and Justice Department guidelines that prevent them from using surveillance tools like wiretapping in investigations like those conducted on Mr. Tsarnaev before the bombings.
这一审查与FBI在爆炸案后进行的内部审查相似。审查过程中，他们发现探员无法开展更全面的调查，原因是联邦法律和司法部准则不允许在调查中使用监视工具，比如在爆炸发生前用于萨纳耶夫的窃听器。
“Had they known what the Russians knew they probably would have been able to do more under our investigative guidelines, but would they have uncovered the plot? That’s very hard to say,” one senior official said.
“如果他们之前知道俄罗斯人所知道的，他们可能会在调查准则下有更多作为，但他们有可能会发现这一阴谋吗？这非常难说，”一位高级官员说。
While the review largely exonerates the F.B.I., it does say that agents in the Boston area who investigated the Russian intelligence in 2011 could have conducted a few more interviews when they first examined the information.
虽然调查在很大程度上免除了FBI的责任，但也确实指出，2011年负责调查俄罗斯情报信息的波士顿地区探员，本应该在他们第一次着手调查这些信息时多进行几次面谈。
The report also recommends several steps it says the F.B.I. should take to more effectively share information with state and local authorities, the officials said. The F.B.I., which has worked with police chiefs from around the country over the past year on how it can better share information, has already adopted several of the recommendations, according to the officials.
官员说，报告也提出建议，认为FBI应该采取几个步骤，以求更有效地与州政府和地方当局共享信息。这些官员还说，过去的一年中，FBI就如何更好地共享信息与全国各地的警察局长展开了合作，并且FBI已经采用了之前提到的建议中的几项。
When the F.B.I. disclosed shortly after the bombing that it had received information from the Russians, congressional Republicans and a few Democrats, including Representative William Keating of Massachusetts, criticized the bureau for not continuing to track him when he left to visit Dagestan and for not questioning him on his return in 2012.
FBI在爆炸发生后不久便透露了他们从俄罗斯方面得到过相关信息，之后，国会中的共和党人和一些民主党人，包括马萨诸塞州众议员威廉·基廷(William Keating)，批评了FBI在萨纳耶夫离开美国前往达吉斯坦后没有继续追踪他，并且在他2012年回到美国后也没有对他进行讯问。
“It’s people like this that you don’t want to let out of your sight, and this was a mistake,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. “I don’t know if our laws were inefficient or if the F.B.I. failed, but we’re at war with radical Islamists, and we need to up our game.”
 “你不能让这种人离开你的视线，这是一个错误，”南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说。“我不知道是我们的政策不力，还是FBI行动失败，但我们现在正处在与极端伊斯兰主义分子的战争中，我们需要加倍努力。”