MOSCOW — Russia has deported several Polish and one German diplomat in recent days, the latest in a series of tit-for-tat expulsions that have come along with mounting tensions between Russia and European governments over the crisis in Ukraine.
莫斯科——近日，俄罗斯驱逐了几名波兰外交官和一名德国外交官，这是一系列针锋相对的驱逐事件中最近的一起。之所以会采取这种举动，是因为俄罗斯与欧洲国家的关系，因为乌克兰危机而变得日益紧张。
The Russian Foreign Ministry announced on Monday that “a number of Polish diplomats” were being sent home in retaliation for the “unfriendly and unfounded” expulsion of Russian diplomats from Poland this month.
俄罗斯外交部周一宣布，“一些波兰外交官”将被遣送回国，以回敬波兰本月对俄罗斯外交官“不友好且无根据”的驱逐。
Separately, the German government said on Monday that one of its diplomats had been asked to leave Russia in what it called a “retaliatory measure,” confirming a report in Der Spiegel over the weekend.
德国政府周一单独表示，一名德国外交官被要求离开俄罗斯，德方称这是“报复性举措”。德国政府的这一表态印证了《明镜》杂志(Der Spiegel)周末的一篇报道。
Relations between Russia and the West are at their worst since the Cold War, despite the tentative cease-fire between the Ukrainian government and the pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine’s southeast. Fighting has continued to simmer there, and each side has accused the other of repeatedly violating the agreement.
俄罗斯与西方的关系进入了冷战以来最糟糕的状态，尽管乌克兰政府与乌克兰东南部的亲俄分裂分子已初步达成停火协议。当地的战斗仍难平息，双方都指责对方多次违反协议。
Meanwhile, Western governments have imposed sanctions on Russia for its seizure of Crimea and its support for the rebels, and Moscow has retaliated with import bans on some Western products.
同时，因为俄罗斯夺取克里米亚并支持反叛分子，西方政府对其实施了制裁；作为回应，莫斯科也开始禁止进口一些西方产品。
The rhetorical temperature has been rising. President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine said in an interview with the German newspaper Bild that though Ukraine prefers peace, it is “prepared for a scenario of total war.”
双方的措辞也变得日益激烈。乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)在接受德国报纸《图片报》(Bild)的采访时说，虽然乌克兰更希望和平，但它“已经为爆发全面战争做好了准备”。
For his part, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia told the German television station ARD in an interview released on Sunday that he was concerned about “ethnic cleansings” in Ukraine and the possibility that the country could become “a neo-Nazi state.” He said that Russia would not allow Ukraine “to annihilate everyone there, all of their political foes and opponents,” suggesting that the Russian military could carry on more covert incursions into eastern Ukraine.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)则在周日播出的一则采访中，告诉德国电视台ARD，他对乌克兰的“民族清洗”和乌克兰变为“一个新纳粹国家”的可能性感到担心。他表示，俄罗斯决不允许乌克兰“消灭那里的所有人，他们所有的政敌和对手”，这表明俄罗斯军方将对乌克兰东部发动更多隐蔽的进攻行动。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany warned in a speech in Sydney, Australia, on Monday that the mounting frictions could have grave consequences.
周一，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)在澳大利亚悉尼的演讲中警告称，不断升级的摩擦可能会带来严重后果。
Stressing the importance of learning the lessons from the world wars that devastated the Continent, Ms. Merkel said that “old-fashioned thinking in spheres of influence, where international rights are being trampled, cannot continue.”
默克尔强调，各国必须从世界大战中汲取教训，称“关注势力范围的旧式思维，即国际权利遭到践踏的局面，不能再继续下去”。
According to a copy of her speech released by her office in Berlin, Ms. Merkel noted that “there are still powers in Europe that refuse reciprocal respect and conflict resolution through democratic means that follow the rule of the law, that count on the alleged right of the strong and disregard the strength of the law.” She added, “This is exactly what happened at the beginning of the year, when Russia annexed Crimea in violation of international law.”
根据默克尔在柏林的办公室所发布的演讲稿，默克尔指出，“欧洲仍有些大国拒绝互相尊重，拒绝通过符合法治原则的民主途径来解决冲突，而是依赖于强国所宣称的权利，不尊重法律权威。”她接着说，“今年年初的情况正是如此，当时俄罗斯违反国际法，吞并了克里米亚。”
Ms. Merkel lamented the damage that had been done to “the friendship that has been established between Russia and Germany in the past 10 to 15 years,” relations that she said were “a good foundation for the development of relations, not only between our two states, but also between Russia and Europe as a whole.”
默克尔对“俄罗斯与德国在过去10至15年里建立的友谊”受到破坏感到惋惜，她形容这种友谊“为发展两国关系，以及俄罗斯与欧洲的关系，奠定了良好的基础”。
“It will be a pity if we let it go to waste,” she said.
她说，“如果白白糟蹋这种友谊，那会很可惜。”
European Union foreign ministers decided on Monday to broaden the union’s sanctions against individual leaders of the pro-Russian rebellion, but did not adopt any new economic sanctions against Russia.
欧盟各国外长周一决定，扩大欧盟对个别亲俄叛乱领袖的制裁范围，但没有对俄罗斯实施新的经济制裁。
The diplomatic expulsions have often come with direct or veiled accusations of spying.
上述驱逐外交官的举动，通常伴有直接或含蓄的间谍指控。
The Russian Foreign Ministry statement about the Polish diplomats on Monday said they were being deported “for activity incompatible with their status.” It did not give specifics about the expelled diplomats, but an official in the Polish Foreign Ministry said they were three military attaches and one employee in the embassy’s political section.
俄罗斯外交部周一就驱逐波兰外交官一事发表声明称，这些外交官因为“一些不符合他们身份的行为”遭到驱逐。声明没有提到这些外交官的详细情况，但波兰外交部的一名官员表示，遭到驱逐的是三名武官和使馆政治处的一名官员。
The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity under the ministry’s rules, said Poland had expelled equivalent people from the Russian embassy in Warsaw several weeks ago. “We expected Russians to respond in exactly the same manner, and so they did,” the official said. “As far as we are concerned, the case is closed.”
这名官员表示，波兰在几周前驱逐了俄罗斯驻华沙大使馆的四名官员。“我们预料到俄罗斯人会以同样的方式回应，他们的确这么做了，”该官员说。“就我们而言，事件已经结束。”根据外交部的规定，这名官员要求匿名。
Poland deported the four Russian diplomats in connection with the arrests of a Polish Army officer and a Russian-born lawyer. Marek Biernacki, Poland’s minister of justice, said both men were spies for the Main Intelligence Directorate, Russia’s largest foreign intelligence agency.
波兰逮捕了一名波兰军官及一名生于俄罗斯的律师，驱逐四名俄罗斯外交官的举动与此事相关。波兰司法部长马雷克·别尔纳茨基(Marek Biernacki)表示，被捕的两人都是俄罗斯总参谋部情报总局(Main Intelligence Directorate)的间谍，该机构是俄罗斯最大的对外情报机构。
The German case was similar. The report in Der Spiegel said Germany had expelled a Russian diplomat for spying while stationed at the Russian consulate in Bonn, prompting the Russians to send a German diplomat home.
德国驱逐事件的情况与此相似。德国《明镜》杂志报道，德国因为一名俄罗斯外交官在俄罗斯驻波恩领事馆任职期间从事间谍活动而将其驱逐，促使俄罗斯将一名德国外交官遣送回国。
“We deeply regret this unjustified action, and have made this clear to the Russian government,” said a German government official who did not give his name, in keeping with policy regarding sensitive diplomatic issues. He declined to give any further information.
一名德国政府官员表示，“我们对这种不正当的行动深感遗憾，并已经向俄罗斯政府阐明这一态度。”根据涉及敏感外交问题的政策，这名官员要求匿名。他拒绝透露更多信息。