MOSCOW — The Kremlin was advised to annex Crimea and a large swath of southeastern Ukraine weeks before the Ukrainian government fell, a Russian newspaper reported on Wednesday, citing what it said was a memo that was presumably presented to the presidential administration.
莫斯科——俄罗斯的一家报纸周三报道称，在乌克兰政府垮台几个星期前，克里姆林宫曾经得到吞并克里米亚和乌克兰东南部大片地区的建议。该报称消息来自一份据信曾递交给俄罗斯政府的备忘录。
Russia has long contended that it acted without premeditation in Crimea, and was only seeking to protect Russian speakers who it said were under threat of attack, and to stave off what it suspected was an attempt by NATO to move its forces into the region.
俄罗斯长期以来一直坚称，它在克里米亚的行动没有经过预谋，只是为了保护当地说俄语的居民，认为他们当时存在遭到袭击的危险，此外它怀疑北约企图将部队调动到该地区，此举是一种防御。
But a report in Novaya Gazeta, one of the few independent voices still publishing in Russia, said that well before the Ukrainian government fell in February 2014, the memo the newspaper had obtained advised the Kremlin to adopt the policy it has since pursued in Ukraine. The memo appears to have been drafted under the auspices of a conservative oligarch later suspected of funding the separatists, the report said.
不过，《新报》(Novaya Gazeta)的一篇报道称，在乌克兰政府2014年2月倒台之前，该报获得的这份备忘录就曾建议克里姆林宫采取它后来对乌克兰采取的那些策略。报道称，这份备忘录似乎是在一位保守派寡头的支持下起草的，此人后来被怀疑为分裂势力提供了资金。《新报》是俄罗斯仍然存在的少数独立声音之一。
The memo lays out what it says is the inevitable disintegration of Ukraine and suggests a series of logistical steps that Russia should take to make sure it remains in control of the situation, steps not far off from what actually occurred.
备忘录中指出，乌克兰的解体不可避免，并建议俄罗斯采取一系列军事后勤行动，确保对局势的持续掌控。这些行动步骤与后来的真实情况相差无几。
As early as Feb. 4, 2014, well before President Viktor F. Yanukovych resigned, on Feb. 21, the memo predicted his overthrow and suggested that Russia use the European Union’s own rules on autonomous areas to try to bind both Crimea and eastern Ukraine to Russia.
早在2014年2月4日，也就是在维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)2月21日辞职之前，这份备忘录就预测他会被推翻，并建议俄罗斯利用欧盟自身有关自治区域的规定，尝试对克里米亚和乌克兰东部进行吞并。
Dimtry S. Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, suggested that the memo was a hoax. “It seems like a fake,” he said.
克里姆林宫发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)暗示这份备忘录是一场骗局。“它看起来是伪造的，”他说。
“I don’t know whether this document exists at all, I don’t know who might be the author, but for sure the document has nothing to do with the Kremlin,” Mr. Peskov said. The authenticity of the document could not be independently verified.
“我不知道这份文件是否存在，也不知道作者可能是谁，但毫无疑问，这份文件与克里姆林宫毫无关系，”佩斯科夫说。这份文件的真实性无法被客观证实。
The memo proposes a detailed strategy, one that the Kremlin seems to have largely followed, though it does not seem eager to annex large areas of southeastern Ukraine, as the memo urges.
这份备忘录提出了一个详细的策略，而克里姆林宫的做法似乎基本上遵循了这一策略，不过，俄罗斯似乎没有急于夺取乌克兰东南部的大片区域，虽然这份备忘录呼吁它这么做。
With Ukraine likely to break into two — a European-aligned west and a pro-Russian east combined with Crimea — Moscow had to act quickly, the report said, particularly given that the Yanukovych government could soon fall.
报道称，鉴于乌克兰当时极有可能分裂为两部分——亲欧洲的西部和亲俄罗斯的东部及克里米亚——莫斯科不得不迅速行动，尤其是考虑到亚努科维奇政府可能很快会倒台的情况。
Russia should take advantage of the “centrifugal forces” tearing the country apart in order to merge the east with the rest of Russia, the memo said. “The dominant regions for the application of force should be Crimea and the Kharkiv region,” it said, particularly given that strong groups there endorsed the idea of joining Russia.
备忘录中说，俄罗斯应该利用正在将乌克兰撕裂的“离心力”，将乌克兰东部并入俄罗斯。备忘录中说，“主要应该在克里米亚和哈尔科夫地区使用武力”，这尤其是因为，那里有一些强大的团体支持加入俄罗斯。
Novaya Gazeta said that a conservative Russian oligarch, Konstantin V. Malofeev, could have been the mastermind behind the document. The newspaper quoted Mr. Malofeev’s communications team as denying any involvement by him.
《新报》称，俄罗斯保守派寡头康斯坦丁·V·马洛费耶夫(Konstantin V. Malofeev)可能是这份文件的幕后策划人。该报援引马洛费耶夫的公关团队的话，否认马洛费耶夫参与了此事。
The report said that oligarchs in Ukraine, who are not tempered by bureaucracy as much as their Russian counterparts, had lost control of the demonstrations in the central square in the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, known as the Maidan. It said the commanders in the square were “presumably controlled not by the groups of oligarchs, but to a great extent by Polish and British secret services.”
报道称，乌克兰的寡头已经无法控制乌克兰首都基辅市中心的独立广场示威活动。和俄罗斯的寡头相比，乌克兰的寡头没有经过那么多官场的磨砺。报道称，广场上的指挥者“大概在很大程度上受控于波兰和英国的秘密机构，而非寡头团体”。
Russia has since switched tactics, blaming the United States for the protests.
俄罗斯此后转变了战术，指责美国应对抗议负责。
The memo was also dismissive of the Ukrainian leader’s chances of bringing the situation under control.
备忘录还表示不相信乌克兰领导人能控制住局势。
“President Yanukovych is not a very charismatic person,” it said. “He is afraid to give up the presidential post and at the same time is prepared to trade the security officers for guarantees of keeping the post and of immunity after resignation.”
“亚努科维奇总统并不是一个很有个人魅力的人，”报道说。“他害怕放弃总统的职位，与此同时又打算出卖安保官员，换取保住这一职位并在离任后享有豁免权的保证。”
Moscow should abandon the Ukrainian leader, the report suggested. “There is no sense in further Russian political, diplomatic, financial or media support for the regime,” it said.
报道表示，莫斯科应该放弃这位乌克兰领导人。“俄罗斯进一步为其政权提供政治、外交、财务或媒体援助是没有意义的。”
The report emerged as the cease-fire in southeastern Ukraine seemed to be taking hold.
这篇报道出现之际，乌克兰东部的停火协议似乎正在发挥作用。
In Kiev, the military said that for a second night in a row cease-fire violations had “significantly decreased,” and that the previous 24 hours had been the quietest since the Feb. 12 signing of a cease-fire in Minsk, Belarus.
基辅军方表示，违反停火协议的行为，已经连续两个晚上出现“显著减少”，并称过去24小时是自2月12日在白俄罗斯明斯克签订停火协议以来最安静的。
Donetsk, Luhansk and the Mariupol area experienced no shooting, it said. In the past 24 hours, separatist forces have fired mortar rounds or other shells just 15 times and light weapons four times, the Ukrainian military said.
报道称，顿涅茨克、卢甘斯克和马里乌波尔地区没有出现枪击。乌克兰军方称，在过去24小时里，分裂武装只发射了15发迫击炮和其他炮弹，使用了四次轻武器。
Yet concerns about the strength of the truce remained, with the Ukrainian military spokesman saying it could not move to the next stage — the withdrawal of heavy weapons — as long as the separatists continued fighting.
然而，对停火协议的效力的担忧依然存在，乌克兰军方发言人称只要分裂分子继续战斗，停火协议就无法发展到下一阶段，即重武器的撤离。
“For now, there is still no order on the withdrawal of weapons, as the fighters have not yet fulfilled the first point of the Minsk agreement, to cease-fire,” said Andriy Lysenko, the military spokesman.
“目前，因为武装人员尚未履行明斯克协议的第一点，即停火，所以还没有撤离武器的命令，”军方发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)说。
The unease was also reflected elsewhere, with France, which helped negotiate the cease-fire, threatening new sanctions if fighting erupted around the strategic southern Ukrainian port of Mariupol.
这种忧虑在其他地方也有体现。促成停火协议的法国威胁称，如果乌克兰南部具有战略意义的港口马里乌波尔爆发战斗，就会实施新的制裁。