BRUSSELS — Even as Russia and the West keep raising the stakes in their economic sanctions battle, the one commodity that could matter most — Russian natural gas — seems still to be off limits.
布鲁塞尔——在俄罗斯和西方的经济制裁战争不断扩大之际，一种可能最为重要的大宗商品似乎仍然没有受到影响，那就是俄罗斯的天然气。
And that is all the more notable because long before Ukraine erupted as a geopolitical crisis, the European Union was aggressively pressing an antitrust case against the Russian state-controlled gas giant, Gazprom. If Europe has grounds to punish Moscow economically, the Gazprom antitrust case might seem to be a prime opportunity.
让这种状况更加引人注意的是，早在乌克兰的地缘政治危机爆发之前，欧盟就曾积极推动一桩针对俄罗斯国有天然气巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）的反垄断案。如果欧洲想要对莫斯科实施经济惩罚，俄气公司的反垄断案似乎是一个绝佳的机会。
Gazprom is suspected of inflating prices and imposing unfair restrictions on gas distribution within Europe, which is heavily reliant on Russian natural gas.
俄气公司涉嫌抬高价格，对欧洲境内的天然气运输施加不公平的限制。欧洲严重依赖俄罗斯的天然气。
As recently as last winter, Russia and the European Union’s competition commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, seemed on the verge of settling. But now the case appears to be languishing. And people close to the inquiry are uncertain whether it will be revived before the autumn, when Mr. Almunia is scheduled to leave office.
就在去年冬天，俄罗斯与欧盟的竞争事务专员华金·阿尔穆尼亚(Joaquín Almunia)似乎已接近达成和解。但如今，这桩案子似乎正在被淡忘。与调查活动关系密切的人也不确定，该案在今秋阿尔穆尼亚离任前是否会重启。
While that prospect is disappointing to small European Union countries like Lithuania that are particularly dependent on Gazprom for their energy needs, the lost momentum of the antitrust case seems to underscore a reality: So far the sanctions war may be more about symbolic actions than imposing far-reaching economic pain on either side.
对于立陶宛等能源需求特别依赖俄气公司的欧盟小国来说，该案的前景令人失望。但这桩反垄断案的降温似乎突显了一个事实：迄今为止，这场制裁战争可能更多只是象征性的举动，而不是为了对任何一方造成经济上的长期痛苦。
A failure to press the Gazprom case “would mean that the commission is weak and not in a position to defend our own rules,” Jaroslav Neverovi, the energy minister of Lithuania, said in a telephone interview last week. He was referring to the European Commission, the E.U.’s administrative arm. Gazprom, Mr. Neverovi warned, could make “an attempt to get back to old practices” in future negotiations.
俄气案遭到搁置“可能意味着委员会很软弱，不愿捍卫我们自己的规定，”立陶宛能源部长雅罗斯拉夫·涅韦罗维(Jaroslav Neverovi)上周在电话采访中说。他指的是欧盟的行政分支机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)。聂韦罗维提醒说，在未来的谈判中，俄气公司可能会“企图故伎重演”。
Lithuania is among six European Union member states dependent on Russia for all their gas. And, like Latvia and Slovakia, it relies on that source for more than a quarter of total energy needs. The other European Union countries wholly dependent on Russia for their natural gas are Bulgaria, Estonia and Finland, according to the European Commission.
立陶宛是靠俄罗斯满足所有天然气需求的六个欧盟成员国之一。立陶宛、拉脱维亚和斯洛伐克各自都有超过四分之一的能源供应来自俄罗斯。根据欧盟委员会，另外三个完全依靠俄罗斯能源的欧盟国家是保加利亚、爱沙尼亚和芬兰。
Three years ago, Lithuania helped advance the Gazprom case by sending Mr. Almunia a formal complaint. Lithuania is also seeking compensation from Gazprom for what it contends were past pricing abuses at a separate arbitration proceeding in Stockholm.
三年前，立陶宛向阿尔穆尼亚正式提起申诉，从而推进了俄气案。在另一桩在斯德哥尔摩实施的仲裁中，立陶宛正在向俄气公司索赔，理由是曾经在定价方面受到侵权。
As recently as last December, two months before Ukraine erupted, Mr. Almunia seemed eager to bring Gazprom to heel. At a meeting at the top of the glass-and-steel headquarters of the European Commission here, Gazprom’s representative was proposing concessions aimed at ending the antitrust investigation, which had badly irked the Kremlin.
就在去年12月，乌克兰危机爆发的两个月前，阿尔穆尼亚似乎一度迫切希望让俄气公司接受惩罚。在布鲁塞尔欧盟委员会总部那座玻璃钢铁建筑的最高层，俄气公司的一名代表在一次会议上提出了若干让步措施，希望结束这次让克里姆林宫十分不悦的反垄断调查。
The Gazprom executive, Alexander Medvedev, who was head of the company’s export division at the time, said then that it might even be possible to reach a settlement before the Winter Olympics got underway in February in the Russian city of Sochi. A person with direct knowledge of the meeting described the conversation, on condition of anonymity.
这名代表是时任俄气公司出口部门负责人的亚历山大·梅德韦杰夫(Alexander Medvedev)。他当时说，甚至有可能在俄罗斯索契2月份召开冬奥会之前就达成和解。一个对这次会议有直接了解的人在匿名条件下描述了这番对话。
But Mr. Medvedev, accompanied by a Russian deputy energy minister, Anatoly Yanovsky, did not manage to settle the case before the Winter Games began. Subsequent talks on a deal between officials on both sides showed that they were still far apart on the allegations of overpricing.
然而，在俄罗斯能源部副部长阿纳托利·亚诺夫斯基(Anatoly Yanovsky)的陪同下，梅德韦杰夫却未能在冬奥会开幕前了结此案。双方官员随后就一项协议进行的谈判显示，他们在定价过高的指控上仍然存在很大分歧。
And now, even as the Ukraine crisis has divided Russia and the West like nothing else since the Cold War, it is far from certain that Gazprom will face formal antitrust charges that could force the company to revise long-term contracts with countries like Lithuania.
如今，乌克兰危机已经使俄罗斯和西方陷入冷战以来前所未有的对立局面，但俄气公司是否会面临可能迫使其更改与立陶宛等国长期合同的正式反垄断指控，仍然充满不确定性。
Formal charges would also make it more likely that Gazprom would eventually be told to pay a fine — one that could theoretically run as high as 10 billion euros, or about $13.4 billion, although European Union antitrust penalties have never gone that high.
如果受到正式指控，俄气公司最终极有可能被要求支付罚款——理论上最高可达100亿欧元（约合820亿元人民币），不过欧盟的反垄断罚款迄今尚未到过如此高的数额。
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Mr. Almunia, declined to comment on the December meeting or subsequent settlement talks. The antitrust “investigation is ongoing,” said Mr. Colombani. “We cannot anticipate the timing of decisions.”
阿尔穆尼亚的发言人安托万·科隆巴尼(Antoine Colombani)拒绝对12月的那次会议以及随后的和解谈判发表评论。反垄断的“调查正在进行当中，”科隆巴尼说。“我们无法预测做出裁决的时间。”
The antitrust investigation began in September 2011 with surprise raids by European officials on Gazprom offices and those of several of its customers in Germany and across Central and Eastern Europe.
这起反垄断调查始于2011年9月，在此期间，欧盟官员曾多次毫无征兆地搜查俄气公司的办公室，以及它在德国和欧洲中东部的几个客户的办公室。
A year later Mr. Almunia opened a formal antitrust case asking three main questions: Was Gazprom blocking gas flows in some parts of Europe? Was the company thwarting its European customers’ efforts to diversify sources of supply? And was it imposing unfairly high charges by linking gas prices to those of oil, rather than basing prices on global natural gas market rates?
一年后，阿尔穆尼亚正式开立了一宗反垄断案，主要调查三个问题：俄气公司是否曾在欧洲的某些地区阻止天然气运输？该公司是否曾阻挠其欧洲客户寻找其他供应来源？此外，该公司是否曾拒绝以全球天然气市场价格为基础，而是把天然气价格与石油价格进行关联，从而不当抬高天然气价格？
The case concentrated on Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
该案主要涉及的国家为波兰、捷克共和国、斯洛伐克、匈牙利、保加利亚、爱沙尼亚、拉脱维亚和立陶宛。