MOSCOW — The Russian energy giant Gazprom stopped supplying natural gas to Ukraine on Monday, warning that the reduction could diminish the amount of gas flowing to the rest of Europe and escalating the political crisis between the two countries.
莫斯科——俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）周一停止了向乌克兰供应天然气，并警告称这将会减少向欧洲其他地方输送的天然气，引起俄罗斯和乌克兰两国间的政治危机升级。
After the government in Kiev failed to meet a 10 a.m. deadline imposed by Moscow to pay a nearly $2 billion installment for gas, Gazprom announced that it would no longer supply on credit.
基辅政府没能在上午10点的截止时间前支付近20亿美元（约合125亿元人民币）的天然气分期付款，这之后俄气公司宣布，不再赊账供应天然气。
“Gazprom supplies to Ukraine only the amount that has been paid for, and the amount that has been paid for is zero,” a Gazprom spokesman, Sergei Kupriyanov, told reporters.
俄气公司一名发言人谢尔盖·库普里亚诺夫 (Sergei Kupriyanov)告诉记者，“俄气公司只向乌克兰提供已经付了款的天然气，而已经付了款的天然气为零。”
A source close to Gazprom said the gas flow into Ukraine had been reduced by the amount intended for Ukraine itself.
与俄气公司关系密切的消息源表示，流入乌克兰的天然气量已经减少，减少的部分是给乌克兰本身的供应量。
All of the gas flowing into Ukraine as of 10 a.m. Monday was meant only for transporting across the country to Europe, the source said.
该消息源称，截至周一上午10点，所有流入乌克兰的天然气都应该只是途径该国输往欧洲的。
“The European Commission has received timely notification of possible interruptions in gas transit, in the event that Naftogaz Ukrainy siphons off gas from transit flows,” said a statement from Gazprom.
来自俄气公司的一份声明称，“欧盟委员会(European Commission)已经及时收到通知，天然气运输可能会出现中断，如果乌克兰石油天然气公司（Naftogaz Ukrainy，简称乌气公司）从中转的天然气中抽取的话。”
Gazprom, which is 50.01 percent owned by the Russian government, also said that it was filing a lawsuit in an arbitration court in Stockholm to force Ukraine to pay $4.5 billion for gas that had already been delivered.
俄气公司还称，正在向斯德哥尔摩一家仲裁法院提起诉讼，迫使乌克兰为已经输送的天然气偿还45亿美元的欠款，俄罗斯政府持有俄气公司50.01%的股份。
Gazprom had ratcheted up the pressure on Ukraine by reducing supplies by about 50 percent in early March. The Russian tactics alarmed European Union officials because about a fifth of the bloc’s supply of natural gas flows through Ukraine.
3月初，俄气公司就曾向乌克兰施加压力，减少了约50%的供气。俄罗斯的做法引起了欧盟官员的不安，因为欧盟约有五分之一的天然气要经由乌克兰运输。
Russia and Ukraine have been negotiating for weeks over the price for gas, which Russia had been delivering at a subsidized rate that was lower than that which it charged European customers. Moscow wants Ukraine to pay $385 per 1,000 cubic meters, the standard measure for gas in Europe. That figure was up from $268, an increase of about 44 percent.
俄罗斯和乌克兰几周来一直在就天然气价格进行谈判，俄罗斯过去一直以补贴价向乌克兰提供天然气，价格比卖给欧洲客户的要低。莫斯科现在要求乌克兰为每1000立方米天然气支付385美元，1000立方米是欧洲天然气定量的标准。新价格比原来的268美元上涨了约44%。
Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer, increased the price after Ukrainian protesters toppled the government, a Russian ally, in February.
俄气公司是世界上最大的天然气生产商，2月份乌克兰抗议者推翻了该国与俄罗斯友好的政府之后，公司上调了天然气价格。
Bitter divisions remain between Moscow and the new government in Kiev, which has accused Moscow of supporting an increasingly violent separatist movement in the east to destabilize the country.
莫斯科与基辅新政府之间依然存在更严重的分歧，后者指责莫斯科支持乌克兰东部愈加暴力的分裂主义运动，以动摇乌克兰。
The United States and Europe have imposed sanctions against some individuals connected to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and against a few banks over Moscow’s annexation of Crimea in March, but it has held off on a third round of punishment. The West has warned, however, that further sanctions would be imposed by the end of June if the violence in eastern Ukraine did not ebb.
美国和欧洲因莫斯科在3月份吞并克里米亚，已对一些与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)有关系的个人和一些银行实施了制裁措施，但却一直没有采取第三轮制裁。但是西方已经发出警告称，如果乌克兰东部的暴力不消退的话，将在6月底施加进一步制裁措施。
Moscow has denied the allegations that it is covertly fueling the violence.
莫斯科一直否认在暗中支持那些暴力。
Although Russia has said that it will not respond directly to the sanctions, the prospect of reduced gas supplies to Europe is considered an indirect method of pressuring Europe. There are backup supplies in storage in Europe and the summer has been fairly warm, so if supplies were cut, it would still be weeks before the situation became critical.
尽管俄罗斯曾表示不会对制裁采取直接回应，但减少向欧洲输送天然气的前景则被认为是在间接地向欧洲施加压力。欧洲仍有天然气储备，而且夏天较暖和，即使天然气供应切断，在情况变得紧迫之前还可以渡过好几周。