MOSCOW —The police in Moscow briefly detained the anticorruption crusader and political opposition leader Aleksei A. Navalny on Tuesday as he tried to join an unauthorized, antigovernment rally, just hours after a Moscow court had given him a suspended sentence on criminal fraud charges.
莫斯科——周二，莫斯科警方对反腐败斗士和反对派政治领袖阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)进行了短暂拘留，其原因是他试图参加一场未经批准的反政府集会。而数小时前，莫斯科的一家法院刚刚以涉及欺诈的刑事指控对他判处了缓刑。
The authorities said later that the police were merely escorting Mr. Navalny back to his home, Interfax reported.
俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道称，官方随后表示，警方只是在护送纳瓦尔尼回家。
Earlier, in a surprise twist, the court had spared Mr. Navalny jail time by suspending his sentence of three and a half years but ordered his younger brother, Oleg, who was also charged, to serve a prison term of the same length.
较早前，事情出现了一个令人惊讶的转折：法院对纳瓦尔尼所获的三年半刑期判处了缓刑，纳瓦尔尼由此得以免于坐牢；但是，法院却责令他同样受到指控的弟弟奥列格·纳瓦尔尼(Oleg Navalny)服刑三年半。
The imprisonment of Oleg Navalny, who is generally viewed as a pawn in a larger battle, signaled that the Kremlin was making a thuggish attempt to suppress Aleksei Navalny’s political activities and avoid making a martyr out of him.
普遍认为，在一场规模更大的战斗中，奥列格只是一个小卒。对他的监禁表明，克里姆林宫(Kremlin)正在用歹毒的手段，打压阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼的政治活动，而且避免把他变成烈士。
After the sentencing, Mr. Navalny tried his best to provoke the authorities, walking from Pushkin Square, down Tverskaya Street toward Manezh Square, and the Kremlin, alternately grim-faced and smiling, trailed by a scrum of journalists.
判决之后，纳瓦尔尼竭力挑衅当局，他从普希金广场(Pushkin Square)走到特维尔街(Tverskaya Street)，并朝马内兹广场(Manezh Square)和克里姆林宫走去，他时而面孔铁青，时而面带微笑，身后跟着一群记者。
At one point, he was handed a cellphone to speak with the radio station Echo of Moscow.
其间，有人把一部手机递给他，让他接受莫斯科回声(Echo of Moscow)电台的采访。
“You just asked about house arrest, well house arrest is irrelevant in comparison with what is going on in our country,” he told the radio station. “It’s not about my brother, my family or myself, or any other concrete person. It’s about the disgusting, mean things happening now, happening for years now, because we have just been sitting at home.”
“你刚才问到软禁，与我国发生的事情相比，软禁根本无关紧要，”他告诉电台。“要紧的并不是我的弟弟、我的家人、我自己，或者其他任何具体的某个人，而是目前正在发生的令人作呕的、卑鄙的事情，这些情况已经持续了数年，就是因为我们只是坐在家里。”
As he walked by the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, he joked that they should take it by storm, as it would be a more comfortable place to spend the night than where he was going. Speaking to Echo of Moscow, he asked Muscovites to join him on Manezh Square, saying, “I hope that I will be one individual who will grow into millions.”
在经过丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton Hotel)时，他开玩笑说，他们应该占领这里，因为与他即将前往的地方相比，在这里过夜会舒服许多。在对莫斯科回声电台讲话时，他呼吁莫斯科人加入他在马内兹广场的行动，他说，“我希望靠我一个人，能聚集起一个数百万人的队伍。”
A minute or so later, he was arrested on a sidewalk of Tverskaya Street, as police officers wedged through the crowd of journalists, grabbed him and shoved him into a bus parked nearby on the street. Some in the crowd shouted: “Shame! Shame!”
片刻之后，他便在特维尔街的人行道上被捕，警察从一群记者当中挤进来，将他一把抓住，把他扔进了这条街上停在不远处的一辆巴士。人群中有人大喊：“耻辱！耻辱！”
The verdict came as critics of the government were hoping that the country’s mounting economic problems would begin to loosen President Vladimir V. Putin’s grip on power.
这一判决做出之时，政府的批评者正希望俄罗斯日益加剧的经济问题可以促使总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)放松对权力的控制。
After it was read, bailiffs immediately placed Oleg Navalny, a former postal worker who was not politically active and had been virtually unknown in public before the trial, in a cell inside the courtroom. He was wearing a Red Hot Chili Peppers T-shirt.
宣读判决之后，法警立即将把奥列格·纳瓦尔尼关进了法庭内的一间牢房。奥列格以前是一名邮政工作者，在政治上并不活跃，此次审判前一直鲜为人知。他在庭上穿着一件“呛红辣椒”(Red Hot Chili Peppers)的T恤。
“Aren’t you ashamed?” Mr. Navalny cried out in dismay at the judge, Yelena Korobchenko.
纳瓦尔尼沮丧地朝法官叶连娜·科罗布琴科(Yelena Korobchenko)喊道，“你难道不觉得羞愧？”
“Why are you jailing him?” Mr. Navalny shouted. “This is a dirty trick. To punish me more?”
“你为什么要关他？”纳瓦尔尼喊道。“这种肮脏的把戏，是想加大对我的惩罚吗？”
Aleksei Navalny’s house arrest, imposed in February, was expected to end as soon as the suspended sentence is officially in place. Under Russian law, his felony conviction makes him ineligible to seek public office for 10 years after the sentence is completed. His actions will also be shadowed now by fear of harm befalling his brother in prison.
阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼从2月开始受到软禁，根据预期当缓刑判决正式做出时，软禁就将结束。根据俄罗斯法律，他的重罪判决将使他在刑期结束后的10年里，失去担任公职的资格。现在，因为担心弟弟在监狱受到伤害，他的行动也会受到牵制。
In a recent interview published in the newspaper Novaya Gazeta, Oleg Navalny, who, like his brother, is married and has two young children, said he understood the risks of his brother’s political activism.
奥列格·纳瓦尔尼在最近发表在《新报》(Novaya Gazeta)上的一则采访中称，他明白哥哥的政治活动有风险。他与哥哥一样已婚，而且有两个年幼的孩子。
“We absolutely knew that sooner or later this all would touch us,” he said. “It is easy to influence a person through his family.”
“我们当然知道，这一切迟早会影响到我们，”他说。“通过家人来影响一个人很容易。”
The political opposition in Russia has been largely mute in recent months, as Mr. Putin’s popularity has soared following the invasion and annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in the spring. Patriotism has also swelled in response to an aggressive government information campaign, presenting events in Ukraine as a coup orchestrated by the United States and the West in a bid to reduce Russia’s sphere of influence.
随着今年春天俄罗斯入侵并吞并克里米亚，使之脱离乌克兰以来，普京的支持率出现飙升，最近几个月来，俄罗斯政治反对派的声音基本上已经听不到了。政府也通过积极的宣传攻势，极大地提高了人们的爱国热情。官方称，乌克兰的事件是美国和西方为了削弱俄罗斯的影响力而精心策划的一场政变。
Some close observers of the Russian political system said that jailing Oleg Navalny effectively turned him into a “hostage,” and was a way of taking revenge against his brother.
一些密切观察俄罗斯政治体系的人士表示，监禁奥列格·纳瓦尔尼实际上将他变成了一名“人质”，这是报复他哥哥的一种手段。
“Kremlin liberalism,” Lilia Shevtsova, an expert on Russian domestic politics at the Carnegie Moscow Center, wrote in a post on Facebook that oozed sarcasm. “Let’s put him on a long leash. We can always shorten it. And the brother gets a real sentence. This means that we take a family member hostage! And we can make his life in prison unbearable.”
“克里姆林宫式的‘自由主义’，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)俄罗斯国内政治问题专家莉利亚·舍夫佐娃(Lilia Shevtsova)在Facebook发表帖子讽刺道。“我们往他身上栓根绳子，可以随时收紧。给他弟弟真的判刑，这样我们就等于那他的家人当人质！我们可以让他的监狱生活痛不欲生。”
Outside the courtroom, several dozen supporters of Mr. Navalny said they believed that his brother’s sentence was meant to punish him.
在法庭外，纳瓦尔尼的几十名支持者表示，他们认为对他弟弟判刑是为了惩罚他。
“So they have taken him hostage,” said Vera Kashtanova, a 70-year-old retiree huddled in a heavy fur coat against the morning frost.
“他们拿他当人质，”现年70岁的退休人员薇拉·卡什塔诺娃(Vera Kashtanova)说。卡什塔诺娃为了抵御清晨的严寒，裹着厚厚的毛皮大衣。
Ms. Kashtanova said that she had not joined in protests, either during the Soviet era or under Mr. Putin, until this year, after Russia’s annexation of Crimea.
卡什塔诺娃表示，她在苏联时期及普京执政时期都没参加过抗议活动，直到今年，俄罗斯吞并克里米亚之后。
“I am a Sovok,” she said, using slang that means an old-fashioned Soviet person. “But I am an enlightened Sovok.”
“我是个‘老苏联’(sovok)，”她说道。“但我是一个开明的‘老苏联’。”
After the sentence was read, a smattering of anti-Navalny demonstrators sauntered toward the subway, taunting the opposition leader’s supporters.
在法院宣读判决后，少数反对纳瓦尔尼的示威者散漫地走向地铁站，边走边嘲讽这位反对派领袖的支持者。
Some of them wore orange-and-black St. George’s ribbons, a symbol of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany that more recently has signified support of the Kremlin’s hard-line policies in Ukraine.
其中一些人佩戴着橙色与黑色条纹相间的圣乔治丝带。这种象征苏联战胜纳粹德国的丝带，最近被人们用来表示支持克里姆林宫对乌克兰的强硬政策。
“A thief should sit in prison!” one yelled.
其中一人喊道，“小偷就该坐牢。”
Once again, as with the unexpected pardon last year of another Putin enemy, the former oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the verdict seemed to underscore the all-encompassing power — and capriciousness — of the Russian leader and the system that he appears to command, often by oblique signals.
正如普京的另一名敌人，前石油大亨米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)去年意外获得赦免一样，该判决似乎再次突显了这名俄罗斯领导人及其政治体系的广泛权力——以及反复无常。普京对整个体系发号施令的方式，似乎常常是间接的信号。
After nearly a year under house arrest, Mr. Navalny, a lawyer who led months of street protests that followed parliamentary elections tainted by accusations of fraud in December 2011, and who then ran unsuccessfully for mayor of Moscow in 2013, has said that he no longer has hope that Russia’s future can be determined at the ballot box.
在被软禁将近一年之后，纳瓦尔尼表示，对于通过选举来决定俄罗斯的未来，他已经不再抱任何希望。在2011年12月的议会选举被曝存在舞弊行为后，这名律师领导了长达数月的街头抗议活动。纳瓦尔尼还曾于2013年参加莫斯科市长竞选，但最终没能成功。
“What are we going to go out on the streets for?” he asked in a recent interview with The New York Times. “There are no elections at all anymore. Talking about falsifications is absurd because none of us are allowed to run.”
“我们走上街头是为了什么？”他最近接受《纽约时报》采访时问道。“不会再有什么选举了。谈论弄虚作假是很荒唐的，因为根本不允许我们参选。”
Far from cowering, Mr. Navalny has publicly and repeatedly accused Mr. Putin and his closest associates in and out of the government of theft and corruption on a vast scale. More recently, he accused them of fomenting war in Ukraine for the sake of securing and expanding power.
纳瓦尔尼并没有退缩，而是多次公开指责普京及他在政府内外的亲密伙伴，犯有侵吞巨额资产和腐败的罪行。最近，纳瓦尔尼指责他们在乌克兰挑起战争，是为了获取、扩展权力。
He has also made no secret of his own presidential ambitions. And though he has lived for years on the brink of lengthy imprisonment, he has shown no willingness to leave Russia as other prominent critics of Mr. Putin have done in recent years.
他毫不掩饰自己想当总统的野心。虽然他多年来一直面临着遭到长期监禁的危险，但他不愿意离开俄罗斯，其他一些怒斥普京的知名批评人士近些年来都已离开。
Gennadi V. Gudkov, a former member of Parliament, compared the sentencing of the opposition leader’s brother to the policy of detaining relatives used in Chechnya by the Russian security services and a regional leader, Ramzan A. Kadyrov, against Islamic militants.
前议员根纳季·V·古德科夫(Gennadi V. Gudkov)表示，将反对派领导人的弟弟判刑的做法，与俄罗斯安全部门及车臣领导人拉姆赞·A·卡德罗夫(Ramzan A. Kadyrov)，在车臣关押伊斯兰派武装分子的亲属的政策如出一辙。
“It’s been made clear in today’s case against Navalny,” Mr. Gudkov wrote on Twitter, “Putin supports Kadyrov’s idea of punishing relatives.”
“纳瓦尔尼的案件明确显示，”古德科夫在Twitter上写道，“普京支持卡德罗夫那种惩罚亲属的主意。”