MOSCOW — Russia stopped short on Monday of outright recognition of the contentious referendums organized by separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk, Russian-speaking provinces of southeast Ukraine, instead using the results to intensify pressure for a negotiated autonomy for those provinces.
莫斯科——本周一，俄罗斯没有直接承认顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克分裂主义者组织的争议性公投，转而利用公投结果，为这两个州通过协商获得自治加压。这是两个说俄语的州，位于乌克兰东南部。
The separatist leader of the self-declared People’s Republic of Donetsk wasted no time in announcing that his province wanted to join Russia, but the question seemed to be whether Moscow was interested.
在自行宣布为顿涅茨克人民共和国的顿涅茨克州，分裂派领袖迫不及待地宣布，自己所在的州希望加入俄罗斯，但问题在于，俄罗斯是否有此意向。
Russia avoided any suggestion that it would react to the results with the same alacrity seen after the Crimean Peninsula referendum in March. Within hours of that vote, President Vladimir V. Putin declared that Russia was annexing Crimea, part of southern Ukraine that had once been part of Russia.
俄罗斯刻意避免了任何暗示，不让外界认为它将像今年3月克里米亚半岛公投之后那样，以同样迅捷的速度来应对此次公投。克里米亚公投结束几小时之内，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·就宣布俄罗斯将兼并克里米亚，该地区位于乌克兰南部，一度是俄罗斯领土。
This time, the Kremlin issued a statement saying only that it “respects the will of the population of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions,” and that the crisis should be resolved through dialogue between representatives of the easterners and the national government in Kiev.
这一次，俄罗斯发表了一则声明，只是说俄方“尊重顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克地区民众的意愿”，东部民众代表和基辅的乌克兰政府应当通过对话解决危机。
The Russian government did not even say that it recognized the results of the voting, which the authorities in Kiev and their Western supporters all declared illegal from the start. A preliminary count from eastern Ukraine showed 89 percent of voters in the Donetsk region and 97.5 percent in neighboring Luhansk voted for greater autonomy. Hours later, Denis Pushilin, leader of the “Donetsk People’s Republic,” said the results showed that the people wanted to be part of Russia.
俄罗斯政府甚至没有宣称它承认公投结果，而基辅当局及其西方支持者从一开始就宣布，此次公投是非法的。乌克兰东部的初步计票结果显示，89%的顿涅茨克投票者和97.5%的卢甘斯克投票者支持更大的自治权。几小时之后，“顿涅茨克人民共和国”领导人丹尼斯·普希林(Denis Pushilin)表示，投票结果表明人民想要加入俄罗斯。
“We ask the Russian Federation to consider the issue of accession of the Donetsk People’s Republic to the Russian Federation,” he told a televised news conference. “The people of Donetsk have always been part of the Russian world, regardless of ethnicity. For us, the history of Russia is our history.”
他在电视直播的新闻发布会上表示，“我们请求俄罗斯联邦考虑接纳顿涅茨克人民共和国。不分种族，顿涅茨克民众一直是俄联邦的一部分。对我们而言，俄罗斯的历史就是我们的历史。”
Mr. Pushilin then elaborated about that history, while echoing Moscow’s line that the current government in Kiev was composed of “Nazis.” He also said the Ukrainian military had left hundreds dead in recent confrontations, although there was no evidence to support that estimate. Finally, he said the eastern regions would not hold the national presidential vote scheduled for May 25, creating the basis for another possible confrontation.
普希林随后详细说明了顿涅茨克的历史，并且附和了俄方的说法，即目前的基辅政府是由“纳粹分子”组成的。他还表示，在最近的对抗中，乌克兰军方已经留下了数百具尸体，不过，尚没有证据支持他的这个估计。他最后表示，东部地区不会按计划于5月25日举行全国总统选举，这番话为又一场冲突埋下了伏笔。
From Moscow, there was no direct reaction. But soon after Mr. Pushilin’s announcement, the Foreign Ministry issued another statement echoing what Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov had said earlier in the day — that the crisis in Ukraine must be solved through dialogue between Kiev and the east.
俄罗斯方面没有作出直接回应。不过，在普希林发言后不久，俄罗斯外交部又发表了一则声明，该声明的观点和外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)当日早些时候的讲话相呼应，也就是说，乌克兰政府和乌东部地区必须通过对话解决危机。
In possibly the most important reaction, Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine’s richest oligarch and the biggest employer in the industrial eastern regions, known together as Donbass, said his main aim was the kind of happiness that came through a strong economy and good jobs.
乌克兰最富有的寡头、合称顿巴斯的东部各工业区的最大雇主里纳特·艾哈迈托夫(Rinat Akhmetov)表示，他的主要目的是通过强劲的经济发展和好工作带来幸福。这可能是针对普希林发言最重要的回应。
“I am strongly convinced that Donbass can be happy only in a united Ukraine,” said Mr. Akhmetov, who previously had kept his position ambiguous. “I am for a strong Donbass in a strong Ukraine.”
“我深信，只有在统一的乌克兰，顿巴斯才会获得幸福。”艾哈迈托夫说。“我支持顿巴斯在强大的乌克兰实现强大。”艾哈迈托夫之前一直保持着含糊不清的立场。
Analysts have long maintained that while Crimea was long considered part of Russia, Moscow was not interested in the cost, in money or lives, to annex the east, not to mention the Western economic sanctions that would result. Should Kiev attempt to end the separatist movement by force, however, Russia might still intervene militarily.
分析人士一直坚称，虽然克里米亚早已被视为俄罗斯领土，但莫斯科方面并不愿意承担吞并乌克兰东部的代价，无论是金钱还是生命，更不愿意承受由此导致的西方经济制裁。然而，如果基辅尝试以武力制止分裂活动，俄罗斯可能依然会进行军事干预。
Russia stated its position on the referendum as the European Union intensified efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis in Ukraine and to allow the May 25 presidential election to proceed, with Russian agreement. The current chairman of the 57-nation Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Didier Burkhalter, the president of Switzerland, who met with Mr. Putin last week, told European Union foreign ministers meeting in Brussels about a “road map” meant to lead to a peaceful resolution.
俄罗斯表明了有关公投的立场，欧盟则加大了相关努力，寻求与俄罗斯达成一致，通过外交途径解决乌克兰危机，使得5月25日的总统大选继续进行。57国集团欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的轮值主席、瑞士联邦主席迪迪埃·伯克哈尔特(Didier Burkhalter)上周与普京举行了会晤，他在布鲁塞尔欧盟外长会议上谈到了实现和平解决的“指导方针”。
“We have reached a pivotal moment in this crisis, both for Ukraine and for Europe,” Mr. Burkhalter said. “The window of opportunity is likely to be short.”
“对于乌克兰和欧洲来说，这场危机都到了紧要关头，”伯克哈尔特说。“机会可能会一闪即逝。”
Mr. Burkhalter has been circulating among European capitals to discuss how mediation might work. The O.S.C.E. is the conduit because it includes both the European Union’s member states and those of the former Soviet Union, including Russia and Ukraine.
伯克哈尔特一直在欧洲各国首都穿梭，讨论如何通过斡旋解决问题。斡旋的渠道正是欧洲安全与合作组织，因为该组织既包含欧盟成员国，又包含俄罗斯、乌克兰等前苏联国家。
The Kremlin statement on the referendum repeated the position that Mr. Putin outlined in a speech last Wednesday, which basically called for a negotiated settlement. “In the interests of establishing such a dialogue, all mediation efforts will be welcome, including by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,” the Kremlin statement read.
克里姆林宫有关公投的声明重申了普京在上周三的演讲中概述的立场，大旨是呼吁协商解决。克里姆林宫在声明中称，“为了启动此类对话，我们欢迎任何斡旋努力，包括通过欧安组织进行斡旋。”