WASHINGTON — President Obama on Monday tentatively embraced a Russian diplomatic proposal to avert a United States military strike on Syria by having international monitors take control of the Syrian government’s chemical weapons. The move added new uncertainty to Mr. Obama’s push to win support among allies, the American public and members of Congress for an attack.
华盛顿——周一，奥巴马总统初步接受了俄罗斯的外交提议，同意在叙利亚把化学武器交由国际核查员控制的情况下，暂停美军打击叙利亚的计划。此前，奥巴马一直在尝试争取盟友、美国公众和国会议员对军事打击的支持，但是此举却给这方面的努力增加了新的不确定性。
In a series of television interviews with six cable and broadcast networks, Mr. Obama capped a remarkable day of presidential lobbying for military action and a dizzying series of developments at home and abroad. Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said early Monday that Syria could avoid an attack by putting its chemical weapons in the hands of international monitors, an idea that was quickly praised by top officials in Syria and among some lawmakers in the United States.
在六家电视广播公司的一系列电视采访中，奥巴马结束了不同寻常的一天。他不仅游说人们支持军事行动，还阐述了国内外混乱的局势。俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)周一早些时候说，如果叙利亚把化学武器交给国际核查员，就可以避免打击。叙利亚高层官员和一些美国议员立即对该提议表示赞同。
“It’s possible,” Mr. Obama said on CNN of the Russian proposal, “if it’s real.”
“这是有可能的，”奥巴马在CNN的节目中评价俄罗斯的提议时说，“如果是真的。”
Mr. Obama’s statements opening the door to the plan, which appeared to offer him an exit strategy for a military strike he had been reluctant to order, came as support on Capitol Hill for a resolution authorizing force was slipping. Even some lawmakers who had announced support for it reversed course. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Monday evening that he would not force an initial vote on the resolution on Wednesday, slowing Senate consideration at least until next week. Democrats said they had enough votes to overcome a filibuster but possibly not enough to pass it.
奥巴马的声明为该提议敞开了大门。这个提议似乎给他提供了一个退出策略，因为他原本就不太愿意下令进行军事打击，而且美国国会对授权军事打击的决议的支持程度也一直在降低。甚至连一些曾宣布支持军事打击的议员都改变了态度。参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)周一晚上表示，他周三将不会在初始投票中强行使该决议得到通过，如此一来，参议院的讨论便至少被推迟到了下周。民主党成员称，他们有足够的票数来克服拖延战术，但是这个票数或许还不足以使相关决议得到通过。
Mr. Obama called the Russian proposal “a potentially positive development” on CNN, but added that his threat of aggressive action in Syria had motivated the Russians to make it. He vowed to continue to press his case with visits to Capitol Hill on Tuesday afternoon and in a speech to the nation that evening.
奥巴马在CNN的节目中称俄罗斯的提议“或许是个积极的进展”，但是又说，正是由于他威胁要对叙利亚采取强硬行动，俄罗斯才提出了该提议。他表示将在周二下午前往国会以及当晚对国民发表讲话时继续阐述动武的理由。
The president promised that his administration would engage with the Russians to see if the world could “arrive at something that is enforceable and serious.” But he said that “if we don’t maintain and move forward with a credible threat of military pressure, I do not think we will actually get the kind of agreement I would like to see.”
奥巴马承诺，他的政府将继续与俄罗斯方面保持联系，看看国际社会是否能“达成具有可行性的严肃协议”。但他还说，“如果我们不坚持在军事层面维持可靠威胁，并展开进一步行动，我认为我们就无法达成我所希望看到的那种协议。”
Russia’s surprise proposal appeared to offer the possibility of a diplomatic alternative to military action by addressing the source of the attacks that killed hundreds and provoked worldwide condemnation. But the Russian proposal was also viewed with skepticism by Obama administration officials, who saw it as a potential delaying tactic that could undermine Mr. Obama’s already tenuous efforts to push for a military strike.
俄罗斯出人意料的提议似乎可能会用外交行动来替代军事行动，其方法就是处理导致数百人死亡并在国际社会引发谴责的袭击的根源。但是，奥巴马政府的官员仍然对俄罗斯的提议表示怀疑，认为这可能只是个拖延战术，会损害奥巴马在推行军事袭击方面业已遭到动摇的行动。
Secretary of State John Kerry opened the door to the idea with what appeared to be an offhand remark earlier on Monday in London, where he said that President Bashar al-Assad of Syria could avoid strikes by agreeing to give up his chemical weapons.
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)对俄罗斯的提议敞开了大门。周一早些时候，他在伦敦貌似随意地说，如果叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)同意放弃他所持有的化学武器，就能避免遭到打击。
“He could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week — turn it over, all of it, without delay and allow the full and total accounting,” Mr. Kerry said.
克里说，“接下来的一周里，他可以把每件化学武器都上交给国际组织——全部上交，一件不留，而且要立即行动，并允许有关方面进行全面统计。”
Mr. Lavrov later seized on the idea, saying that it might form the basis of a compromise.
拉夫罗夫随后抓住这个观点称，这有可能会形成协议的基础。
“We don’t know whether Syria will agree with this, but if the establishment of international control over chemical weapons in the country will prevent attacks, then we will immediately begin work with Damascus,” Mr. Lavrov said at the Foreign Ministry in Moscow. “And we call on the Syrian leadership to not only agree to setting the chemical weapons’ storage sites under international control, but also to their subsequent destruction.”
“我们不知道叙利亚是否会同意这么做，但是如果把叙利亚的化学武器交由国际组织管理的做法能够防止打击，我们就将立即开始与大马士革展开合作，”拉夫罗夫在位于莫斯科的外交部说。“此外，我们还呼吁叙利亚领导层不仅要同意由国际组织来控制化学武器的存放地点，而且还要同意随后对这些武器进行销毁。”
American and Russian diplomats had long discussed the problem of how to deal with Syria’s chemical weapons before, including in May when Mr. Kerry went to Moscow. Nothing came of the discussions until after Mr. Kerry’s comments in London on Monday, when he received a call from Mr. Lavrov, officials said. Mr. Lavrov outlined the proposal to Mr. Kerry that he planned to unveil later in the day: Syria should allow international monitors to control the chemical weapons and agree ultimately to give them up.
美国和俄罗斯外交官此前就如何应对叙利亚的化学武器已经进行过很长时间的磋商，包括克里5月的莫斯科之行。有官员称，在克里于周一在伦敦发表意见之前，这些讨论一直没什么结果，发言后他接到了拉夫罗夫的一个电话。拉夫罗夫简要概括了他计划当天晚些时候公布的提议：叙利亚应该接受国际监督机构对化学武器的监管，并同意最终会放弃这些武器。
“We are not going to play games,” Mr. Kerry told Mr. Lavrov, according to a senior State Department official traveling with Mr. Kerry.
据一位和克里一同出行的国务院高级官员说，当时克里对拉夫罗夫说，“我们不打算玩游戏。”
The cautious tone from Mr. Obama about the Russian proposal suggested that his administration was not yet ready to give up on its all-out push for a military response to Syria’s use of chemical weapons against its own citizens. Susan E. Rice, the president’s national security adviser, maintained that push on Monday morning in a speech at the New America Foundation, a Washington research institution, in which she made the case for a military strike even as news of the Russian proposal was crossing the Atlantic.
奥巴马对俄罗斯人的提议表现出来的谨慎态度，表明他的政府还没有准备放弃对国民进行全力的说服，希望他们接受，要对叙利亚利用化学武器袭击自己的国民一事做出军事反应。周一上午在华盛顿研究机构新美国基金会(New America Foundation)的演讲中，总统的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)继续着自己的说服工作，尽管在她陈述军事打击的理由之际，俄罗斯发起提议的消息正从大西洋彼岸传来。
Ms. Rice emphasized the brutality of the chemical attacks, opening her remarks by describing the “little children, laying on the ground, their eyes glassy.” Failing to act, she said, would send a message of weakness.
赖斯强调了化学武器袭击的残酷性，她在演讲开头形容，“小孩子，躺在地上，他们的目光呆滞。”她说如果不采取行动，会被人理解为示弱。
“It risks suggesting that the international community cannot muster the will to act when necessary,” she said, adding that they were “watching to see whether the United States will stand up for the world we are trying to build.”
“这可能会让人以为，国际社会在需要采取行动的时候无法统一意志，”她说，并且他们会“观察美国会不会站出来捍卫我们正在建造的这个世界”。
But later in the day, in the television interviews, Mr. Obama repeated his desire to take the proposal seriously, while still pressing ahead to make the case for military action to the American public and lawmakers. In an interview with NBC News, Mr. Obama said he would take the Russian proposal “with a grain of salt initially.” But he told the network that if Syrian officials accepted the Russian proposal, “then this could potentially be a significant breakthrough.”
但当天晚些时候，奥巴马在电视采访时再一次表示他会严肃对待俄罗斯的提议，同时又向美国公众和立法者阐述了采取军事行动的理由。在NBC新闻频道的一次采访中，奥巴马说他对俄罗斯的提议“在一开始会有些将信将疑”。但他对电视台说，如果叙利亚官方接受了俄罗斯的提议，“那么这有可能成为一个重要的突破口。”
On CBS, he added, “I don’t think we would have gotten to this point unless we had maintained a credible possibility for a military strike, and I don’t think now is the time for us to let up on that.”
在CBS上，他又说，“要想实现这一点，我们必须保持着一种确切可信的军事打击可能性，我不认为这时候应该缓和下来。”
Reacting to comments by Mr. Kerry that any attack on Syria would be “unbelievably small,” Mr. Obama said any attack would not be felt like a “pinprick” in Syria.
针对克里所说的任何对叙利亚的攻击在规模上都将“小的难以置信”，奥巴马说不管进行何种攻击，对叙利亚都不会只是一点点“刺痛”。
“The U.S. does not do pinpricks,” he said in the NBC interview. “Our military is the greatest the world has ever known. And when we take even limited strikes, it has an impact on a country like Syria.”
“美国攻击行动的后果绝不是刺痛，”他在NBC的采访中说。“我们拥有世界上最强大的军队。当我们进行打击时，即便是有限的打击，对叙利亚这样的国家也将是一场冲击。”
Mr. Obama also responded to warnings of “repercussions” that Mr. Assad made in an interview Monday morning with Charlie Rose of CBS News. Mr. Obama waved aside that threat in an interview with Fox News.
对于阿萨德在周一上午接受CBS新闻频道的查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)采访时警告的“后果”，奥巴马也进行了回应。他在Fox新闻频道的一次采访中对这一威胁不屑一顾。
“Well, actually, we know what Assad’s capabilities are and, you know, Mr. Assad’s are significant compared to a bunch of opposition leaders, many of whom are not professional fighters,” the president said Monday evening. “They’re significant relative to over 400 children that were gassed. They’re not significant relative to the U.S. military.”
“好吧，其实我们知道阿萨德有多大本事，阿萨德先生跟一帮反对派领导人比起来是很强大的，那些人很多都不是专业的战斗人员，”奥巴马周一上午说。“他们跟被毒气毒死的那400多个孩子比起来是很强大的。他们跟美国军队比起来不算什么。”