MOSCOW — When President Vladimir V. Putin delivered Russia’s successful pitch to host the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi — in English, and a smattering of French, no less — he declared it an international validation of the Russia that emerged from the ruins of the Soviet Union.
莫斯科——当弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)发表申办索契冬奥会成功后的演讲时——他用英语讲话，甚至还夹杂了少量法语——他宣称，这将是国际社会对俄罗斯从苏联废墟上崛起的认可。
“It is, beyond any doubt, a judgment on our country,” he said then, nearly seven years ago.
“毋庸置疑，这是对我们国家的评判，”普京在近7年前的那次演讲中说道。
Now, as the first events begin, the Games have for Mr. Putin and his allies become a self-evident triumph of Russia’s will. The avalanche of criticism that has already fallen, from minor complaints about ill-prepared hotels and stray dogs to grave concerns about the costs, security and human rights, is brushed away like snowflakes from a winter coat.
而现在，随着索契冬奥会大幕逐渐拉开，对普京和其盟友而言，这场运动会已经成为俄罗斯意志的一场不言而喻的胜利。对索契冬奥会铺天盖地的批评声——从对准备不足的宾馆和流浪狗的抱怨到对成本、安保和人权的严重关切——像冬衣上的雪花一样被轻轻掸走。
“Its realization is already a huge win for our country,” Dmitri N. Kozak, a deputy prime minister and one of Mr. Putin’s longest-standing aides, said in Sochi on Thursday. He went on to use a phrase attributed to Catherine the Great when she intervened to halt the court-martial of a general who had stormed an Ottoman fortress without orders in the 18th century:
“能够举办冬奥会本身对我们国家来说就是巨大胜利，”周四，普京最忠诚的亲信之一、副总理德米特里·N·科扎克(Dmitri N. Kozak)在索契说道。他接着引用了叶卡捷琳娜二世(Catherine the Great)的一句话，18世纪一位将军在没有接到命令的情况下攻击了一座奥斯曼堡垒，因此要在军事法庭接受审判，叶卡捷琳娜二世阻止审判时说：
“Victors are not judged.”
“胜利者不被审判。”
For Mr. Putin’s critics, inside and outside Russia, a reckoning looms nonetheless. What was once supposed to be a crowning moment for Russia and Mr. Putin himself, they say, is now awkwardly coinciding with a significant slowdown in Russia’s economy, raising questions about whether the $50 billion or so spent on Sochi might better have been invested elsewhere.
然而，俄罗斯国内外的普京批评者们还是开始评判了。他们表示，曾一度被认为将给俄国和普京带来荣耀的辉煌时刻，现在却很不巧地遇上俄国经济的大滑坡，使人们开始质疑用于索契冬奥会的约500亿美元是否应投资于其他地方。
Despite relatively high oil prices that have driven Russia’s recovery for most of Mr. Putin’s time in power, the Kremlin has already signaled that it would have to cut spending to make up for projected shortfalls in revenue, caused by an erosion of most other commodity prices and a dearth of new foreign investment.
在普京任期内大部分时间里，相对高的油价推动了俄国经济复苏，但克林姆林宫已经表示将不得不减少开支，以弥补因大部分其他商品价格下降以及缺乏新的外来投资而可能造成的收入缺口。
Lilia Shevtsova, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center, argued that the International Olympic Committee awarded the games to Sochi — over Salzburg, Austria, and Pyeongchang, South Korea — at a time when Mr. Putin was at the zenith of his powers in his second term but when the verdict on his legacy remained an open one. Many had been critical of his authoritarian instincts after he rose to power — including the tightening of news media and political freedoms and the brutal war in Chechnya — but Russia had indisputably recovered from the chaos of the 1990s.
卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)的分析师莉利亚·舍夫佐娃(Lilia Shevtsova)认为，国际奥委会将冬奥会的举办权授予索契时——索契打败了奥地利萨尔茨堡以及韩国平昌市——正值普京的权力在第二任期中达到顶峰，但当时对其统治的评判尚无定论。虽然自普京掌权以来，很多人对他的专制本能颇有微词，包括他加大对新闻媒体和政治自由的钳制力度，以及在车臣开展的残酷战争，但俄国走出了20世纪90年代的混乱也是不争的事实。
“At that time, Russia was ‘rising from its knees,'” Ms. Shevtsova wrote in an essay on the center’s website, “whereas now — in 2014 —– Russia has started its downward slide.”
“当时，俄国正‘站起来’，”舍夫佐娃在卡内基莫斯科中心网站上一篇文章中写道，“而现在，2014年，俄国已开始走下坡路。”
The stalling of the economy, despite the stimulus of Olympian spending, has raised worries about popular unrest directed at the Kremlin and a tightening of political freedoms in response once the Games are over.
尽管用于奥运会上的支出带来一定刺激，但俄国经济依然停滞不前，这令人们担心可能会出现针对克林姆林宫的民众骚乱，而作为回应，当局会在冬奥会结束后进一步钳制政治自由。
Growth last year slowed to 1.3 percent, the lowest in a decade except for during the global recession in 2009, even as other major economies showed signs of recovery. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development recently called for urgent changes in labor policies, productivity and a government and legal bureaucracy that now stifle development — all long promised but not enacted.
去年，尽管其他大国出现经济复苏迹象，俄国经济增速还是降至1.3%，如果把全球经济陷入衰退的2009年排除在外，这是过去十年里的最低点。经济合作与发展组织(The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)不久前呼吁俄国立即改革其劳工政策、生产力、政府和法制官僚机构等制约该国发展的因素——俄国政府很久前就承诺进行这些改革，但从未实现。
“Structural reforms to improve the business climate are key to raising potential growth and economic resilience,” the organization wrote in its survey of Russia’s economy last month. “As energy prices stagnate and labor and capital become fully utilized, growth is falling behind pre-crisis rates. Making the economy stronger, more balanced, and less dependent on rents from national resource extraction is therefore a key challenge.”
“为改善商业环境而进行的结构改革，是提升经济增长潜能和经济韧性的关键所在，”经济合作与发展组织上月在其关于俄国经济的调查报告中写道。“随着能源价格的停滞不前，劳动力和资金被利用殆尽，经济增长开始下降，低于危机前的水平。因此，发展更为强劲、平衡的经济，并降低经济发展对国家资源开采租金的依赖，是一项至关重要的挑战。”
The sheer cost of the games has suddenly become a liability even in a political system that allows little room for public debate about the wisdom of government spending.
这种情况下，尽管处在一个几乎不允许公众讨论政府开支是否合理的政治体制内，举办冬奥会所需的巨大成本，也突然成了一种不利因素。
“It is about a lost chance,” said Aleksei A. Navalny, whose Foundation for the Fight Against Corruption recently published an interactive website charting what critics have called excessive waste and corruption in the construction of the Olympic facilities. “It is about what Russia could have done with this money. We could have had a new industrialization along the same lines as the industrialization under Stalin.”
“问题在于我们错失了一个机会，”反腐基金会创始人阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)说。“问题在于俄国可以用这些钱来做什么。我们本来可以按照斯大林时期的工业化方针政策来实现一个全新的工业化。”纳瓦尔尼的反腐基金会最近发布了一个互动网页，上面列出了批评者所说的奥运会设施建设过程中出现的过度浪费和腐败行为。
Instead, he added, “It’s just one crazy little czar who chose to throw money right and left in some kind of madness.”
然而，纳瓦尔尼接着说，这不过是“一个疯狂的小沙皇以某种疯癫的方式到处扔钱”。
Russia is not about to collapse. Nor does Mr. Putin’s rule face any foreseeable challenge, something even a determined critic like Mr. Navalny acknowledged. Mr. Putin’s approval rating, bolstered by lavishly positive coverage on state television, remains as high as when he first came to office.
俄国并没有土崩瓦解的危险。普京的统治也没有遇到任何可预见的挑战，即使是像纳瓦尼尔这样的坚定批评者也承认这一点。在官方电视媒体夸张的正面报道推动下，普京依然保持着和刚上任时一样高的支持率。
Hosting the Olympics, however, seems to have lost some of the luster officials expected for Russia’s prestige at home and abroad, much to the frustration of Mr. Putin’s supporters.
然而，举办冬奥会似乎没能给俄罗斯的国内外声誉带来官员们所期待的光环，这让普京的支持者十分失望。
The Olympics have refocused international attention on the hard-line policies Mr. Putin’s government has pursued since he returned to the presidency in 2012 after a four-year interregnum as prime minister and prompted calls for protests and even boycotts.
索契冬奥会让国际社会的目光再次聚焦普京政府所推崇的铁腕政策——自2012年结束作为过渡的四年总理任期重回总统宝座之后，普京一直推行这种政策——并引发了开展抗议和抵制的呼声。
The list is long: Russia’s support for Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, and its efforts to keep Ukraine out of the orbit of the European Union; its prosecution of political opponents, real and perceived; its restrictions on foreign adoptions, and the passage of a law last year prohibiting “homosexual propaganda” aimed at children; even its most recent campaign to choke off the only independent television news channel on the pretext of questioning the Soviet Union’s victory following the Siege of Leningrad, which ended 70 years ago.
可以列出很长一串例子：俄罗斯支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al- Assad)，它采取行动阻止乌克兰被纳入欧盟(European Union)的轨道；它起诉政治异见者，这其中有真的，也有一厢情愿地认为的；它限制外国人领养，去年还通过了一部禁止对儿童进行“同性恋宣传”的法律；甚至最近还采取措施要关闭唯一的独立电视新闻节目，理由是它质疑了苏联在70年前列宁格勒围城战中获得的胜利。
“The Games are supposed to be outside of politics,” Aleksandr D. Zhukov, the deputy speaker of the lower house of Parliament and the chairman of the Russian Olympic Committee, said in a recent interview. “Those who try to pin some political tails on them are just being undignified.”
“冬奥会不应该牵涉政治，”俄罗斯奥委会主席、议会第一副议长亚历山大·D·茹科夫(Aleksandr D. Zhukov)最近接受采访时表示。“那些试图给运动会接上政治尾巴的人都是在自取其辱。”
To many officials here, criticism of the Games has a pernicious undertow of Western hostility toward Russia, intended to deny the country its rightful place in the world order. It is a sentiment that shapes Russia’s foreign policy, especially toward the United States.
在俄国很多官员看来，对冬奥会的批判中暗含着西方的恶意，目的是为了否定该国在世界格局中所应占据的位置。而俄国的外交政策，尤其是其对美政策，就是本着这种情绪建起起来的。
Mr. Putin, for his part, has presided over the final preparations in Sochi seemingly impervious to the flurry of rebukes, from trivial mockery of the state of Russia’s hospitality industry to searing criticism from groups like Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, which has already declared two environmentalists arrested this week as the Olympics’ first prisoners of conscience.
而对普京而言，索契在他主持下完成了最后的准备工作，如潮的抨击似乎也没对它产生什么影响——从对俄国酒店业无伤大雅的嘲讽，到来自人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)和国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)的尖锐批评——国际特赦组织已经宣称本周被捕的两名环保人士是此次冬奥会的首批良心犯。
He met with the presidents of Tajikistan and China on Thursday, the first of a series of meetings with heads of state that will happen on the margins of the Games.
奥运会召开期间，普京将与多国元首举行一系列会晤；周四，普京会首先同塔吉克斯坦总统、中国国家主席举行会晤。
“We have strong memories of the emotional, uplifting enthusiasm we felt during the 1980 Moscow Olympics,” Mr. Putin said, again in English, when he opened the 126th session of the International Olympic Committee on Tuesday, omitting any reference to the United States-led boycott that marred those Games. “And we feel truly joyful and positive because the mighty, inspiring spirit of the Olympic Games is once against returning to our nation.”
“我们仍然清晰地记得，1980年莫斯科奥运会时我们所感受到的那种激动、振奋的热情，”普京在周二宣布国际奥委会第126次全会开幕时说道，这次他还是用英语，不过他没有提到那次奥运会期间美国带头进行的抵制活动。“我们感到由衷地开心和乐观，因为奥林匹克运动会伟大、催人奋进的精神再一次回到了我们的国家。”
President Obama and the leaders of France, Germany and Britain may have declined to attend the Games, but they will end up in Sochi soon regardless. Russia will be the host of this year’s Group of 8 summit, and Mr. Putin has decided to hold it there.
奥巴马总统及法国、德国和英国的领导人可能已拒绝参加冬奥会，但他们最终还是会在不久后现身索契。俄国将成为今年八国集团峰会的东道主国家，而普京将峰会举行地定在了索契。