MOSCOW — The champagne toasts that some Russian officials quaffed just a few short months ago to celebrate the victory of Donald J. Trump have gone a bit flat.
莫斯科——就在数月前，一些俄罗斯官员畅饮香槟，庆祝唐纳德·J·特朗普在总统竞选中获胜，而现在，那种甜美滋味已然是昨日云烟 。
Euphoria was already starting to cede to caution before Michael T. Flynn, President Trump’s national security adviser and a perceived friend of Russia, resigned. That cemented the uneasy mood.
在特朗普总统的国家安全顾问、被认为是俄罗斯朋友的迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)辞职之前，狂喜已经开始慢慢被警惕所取代。弗林的辞职更是加深了这种不安情绪。
The departure of Mr. Flynn on Monday over his contacts with the Russian ambassador to Washington was the latest in a series of mixed signals from Mr. Trump and his advisers on a host of issues important to Russia, particularly the lifting of economic sanctions.
周一，弗林因与俄罗斯驻美大使的接触而辞职，这是特朗普及其顾问在诸多对俄罗斯意义重大的问题上，尤其是取消经济制裁方面，发出的一系列混乱信号中的最新一个。
Now, many prominent political figures are wondering whether hopes for change were premature, and whether Moscow will inevitably remain Washington’s main boogeyman. On Tuesday, the Pentagon was confrontational, accusing Moscow of secretly deploying a cruise missile system that violates a 1987 treaty on intermediate-range missiles based on land.
现在，很多重要政治人物在思考，改变的希望是否仍不成熟，莫斯科是否仍将必然是华盛顿的主要打击对象。周二，五角大楼提出抗议，指责莫斯科秘密部署巡航导弹，违反1987年签署的陆基中程导弹条约。
Vladimir R. Soloviev, the host of a noisy Sunday night talk show on state-run television viewed as reflecting Kremlin policy, this week issued one of the most negative public assessments yet of Mr. Trump. “Don’t be charmed by Trump,” he said in a message he addressed to all politicians and experts. “Don’t think that Trump is a pro-Russian politician. Don’t hope that Trump, in the interests of Russia, will in any way go against the basic, rooted interests of America.”
弗拉基米尔·R·索洛维约夫(Vladimir R. Soloviev)是一个喧闹周日晚间秀的主持人。该节目所在的官方电视台被认为会反映克里姆林宫的政策。本周，他发布了关于特朗普的最负面的公众评价之一。“不要被特朗普迷惑，”他在面向所有政治人士和专家的一条消息中说，“不要认为特朗普是一名亲俄政客。不要期望特朗普会为了俄罗斯的利益而以任何方式损害美国的根本利益。”
How things have changed since November, when the Russian Parliament greeted Mr. Trump’s election with a round of applause and a prominent political leader — albeit one famous for his antics — toasted the victory with champagne on national television. In January, Mr. Trump garnered more mentions than President Vladimir V. Putin in the Russian news media, knocking the Russian leader from the top spot for the first time since 2011.
11月份以来，事情已经发生了很大变化，当时俄罗斯国会热烈鼓掌欢迎特朗普当选，一名著名政治领袖——虽然他以滑稽反常的举动闻名——在面向全国的电视节目上举起香槟庆祝特朗普获胜。1月份，俄罗斯新闻媒体提及特朗普的次数比说起弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)的时候还多，这是自2011年以来这位俄罗斯领袖首次屈居第二。
Only one man, Mr. Putin, really sets Russia’s foreign policy course, however. And he was never publicly celebratory, although his animosity toward Hillary Clinton, whom he blamed for the angry demonstrations that greeted his return to the presidency in 2012, was well known.
不过，俄罗斯的外交政策路线其实只由一个人确定，那就是普京。他从未公开庆祝特朗普当选，虽然他对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的敌意广为人知。他将2012年他再次当选总统时出现的愤怒示威活动归咎于希拉里。
In recent years, Mr. Putin’s main foreign policy goal has been to resurrect the time when the United States and the Soviet Union, as the two great nuclear superpowers, were the main arbitrators of the global order. Lacking the might of the Soviet Union, Mr. Putin has tried to punch above his weight by shocking the world with unexpected tactics like seizing Crimea, destabilizing Ukraine and deploying his military in Syria to shore up President Bashar al-Assad.
近些年，普京的主要外交政策目标是重现美苏作为两个核武器超级大国担任全球秩序主要仲裁者的时代。由于俄罗斯缺乏苏联的强大实力，普京做出了一些超出自己能力的尝试，以出人意料的策略震惊世界，比如占领克里米亚；搅乱乌克兰政局；在叙利亚部署军队支持巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(President Bashar al-Assad)。
President Barack Obama responded by referring to Russia as a declining regional power. The two men had a poisonous personal relationship.
贝拉克·奥巴马总统对此的回应是，俄罗斯是一个正在衰落的地区大国。两人的私人关系非常糟糕。
Mr. Trump seemed to presage a different era with all the praise he heaped on Russia and Mr. Putin. He described him as a strong, smart leader and said that Moscow seemed to be blamed for everything. And he called for better relations with Moscow to fight the Islamic State and other terrorist groups, echoing a longstanding Putin pitch.
特朗普则盛赞俄罗斯和普京，似乎预示着一个不同的时代。他称赞普京是一名强大、英明的领袖，说俄罗斯似乎背上了所有的黑锅。他呼吁改善与莫斯科的关系，共同打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)等恐怖组织，响应了普京长期以来的号召。
Some voices in Moscow cautioned that Mrs. Clinton, as a calmer hand on the tiller, would be the kind of predictable leader that the Kremlin preferred, albeit a hostile one. Now, there is a sense that the Kremlin might be unsettled by the president of a far more powerful country deploying Mr. Putin’s favorite tactic: unpredictability.
莫斯科有些人士警告称，克林顿作为一名更冷静的舵手，会是克里姆林宫更喜欢的那种可预测的领袖，虽然她充满敌意。现在的感觉是，克里姆林宫可能为一个远比自己强大的国家的总统采取普京最喜欢的策略而感到不安，而这个策略就是让人感到难以捉摸。
“Trump will be tamed and act more presidential, eventually, but he also has a penchant for unpredictability that works against the Kremlin,” said Konstantin von Eggert, a political commentator for TV Rain, Russia’s only independent channel. “This creates a situation in which a stronger player with the same style of unpredictability as a strategy comes on the stage. Putin did not anticipate that.”
“特朗普最终会被驯服，表现得更像总统，但他也有那种不利于克里姆林宫的不可预测的倾向，”俄罗斯唯一的独立频道雨电视(TV Rain)的政治评论员康斯坦丁·冯·埃格特(Konstantin von Eggert)说。“这会导致的情况是，一个同样以不可预测战略为风格的更强大的对手登上了舞台。普京没有料到这一点。”
There has been a certain amount of policy whiplash on issues important to Russia. First, Mr. Trump said that NATO was obsolete, then that it had America’s solid backing. He seemed to indicate he would lift economic sanctions imposed over the Ukraine crisis, and appointed as secretary of state Rex W. Tillerson, who as head of Exxon Mobil cut enormous oil deals with Russia and spoke out publicly against sanctions.
在对俄罗斯意义重大的一些问题上出现了左右摇摆的状况。最初，特朗普曾说北约过时了，后来又说它拥有美国的坚定支持。他一度似乎表明将取消针对乌克兰危机的经济制裁，并任命雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)为国务卿。蒂勒森担任埃克森美孚石油公司(Exxon Mobil)总裁时曾与俄罗斯达成了大量石油交易，公开反对制裁。
Then the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, sharply criticized Russia over Ukraine, suggesting that sanctions were hinged to a peace deal there. Mr. Tillerson echoed that line.
然后，美国驻联合国新大使尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)在乌克兰问题上尖锐批评俄罗斯，暗示是否取消制裁取决于是否能在那里达成和平协议。蒂勒森响应了这条路线。
Finally, Mr. Trump started to mix geopolitical apples and oranges, crossing issues in a way that Moscow deplores. He said maybe sanctions could be lifted in exchange for a better deal on nuclear arms. The Trump administration seemed to want the Kremlin to distance itself from Iran, its ally in Syria, and from China.
最后，特朗普开始把地缘政治的多种不同问题牵扯到一起，而这种跨领域的方式是莫斯科所不喜欢的。他说，也许制裁可以被取消，交换条件是在核武器问题上达成更好的协议。特朗普政府似乎想让克里姆林宫疏远它在叙利亚的盟友伊朗以及中国。
“There is a cautious feeling about how Trump and his advisers designated the possible ways of improving relations with Russia,” said Vladimir Frolov, an international affairs analyst. “This has frightened the Kremlin because it does not correspond to Russia’s interests.”
“关于特朗普及其顾问如何制定改善与俄罗斯关系的可能途径存在审慎的感觉，”国际事务分析师弗拉基米尔·弗罗洛(Vladimir Frolov)说。“这令克里姆林宫感到担忧，因为它不符合俄罗斯的利益。”
The idea that Mr. Flynn was forced to resign over contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak, fed the suspicion that relations with Moscow were the main target and that Russophobia was again stalking Washington. Accusations that Russia interfered in the American elections have generally been dismissed on these grounds.
弗林因与俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)接触而被迫辞职的事更令人怀疑，与俄罗斯的关系才是主要目标，恐俄症再次渗透华盛顿。关于俄罗斯介入美国大选的指控主要是基于这些理由而被否认。
Since Mr. Trump’s victory there has also been a quiet drumbeat in Moscow, where conspiracy theories are never far below the surface, that the American establishment would overthrow him.
自从特朗普获胜以来，莫斯科暗地里也出现了一种论调，关于美国权势人物会推翻特朗普的阴谋论从未消散。
“Either Trump has not found the necessary independence and has been driven into a corner,” wrote Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the international affairs committee in the upper house of Parliament. “Or Russophobia has permeated the new administration from top to bottom.”
“要么是特朗普没有获得必需的独立性，被逼到了墙角，”俄罗斯议会上院的国际事务委员会主席康斯坦丁·科萨切夫(Konstantin Kosachev)写道。“要么是恐俄症从上至下渗透了整个政府。”
Alexei Pushkov, another lawmaker, said on Twitter that after Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump himself might be the next target.
另一位议员阿列克谢·普什科夫(Alexei Pushkov)在Twitter上表示，在弗林之后，特朗普本人可能会是下一个目标。
Dmitry S. Peskov, the spokesman for Mr. Putin, declined to comment on Tuesday about the resignation, calling it an internal American affair. Just last Friday, in an evident attempt to help Mr. Flynn, Mr. Peskov had denied that the American official and the Russian ambassador had discussed sanctions. In resigning, Mr. Flynn conceded that they had.
周二，普京的发言人迪米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)拒绝就弗林辞职事件发表评论，称它是美国的国内事务。就在上周五，佩斯科夫还曾否认这位美国官员与俄罗斯大使讨论过制裁问题，这显然是为了帮助弗林。通过辞职，弗林承认他们讨论过。
Mr. Peskov called it premature to predict the course of Russian-American relations.
佩斯科夫表示，现在预测俄美关系的前途为时过早。