MOSCOW — The Russian government said Tuesday that it was forcing five major state-controlled exporters, including the publicly traded energy behemoths Gazprom and Rosneft, to limit their foreign currency holdings to help prop up the ruble.
莫斯科——本周二，俄罗斯政府表示，它将限制五大出口商的外币持有量，以支撑卢布汇率。已经上市的能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气）和俄罗斯石油公司（Rosneft，简称俄油）也名列其中。
The value of the ruble has plummeted in recent months as the Russian economy took a two-fisted beating from a drop in worldwide oil prices and Western sanctions aimed at punishing the Kremlin over its policies in Ukraine.
近几个月来，卢布大幅贬值，因为俄罗斯经济遭受了两面夹击：在全球石油价格下挫的同时，西方又因克里姆林宫对乌克兰的政策对其施加了制裁。
In response to the ruble’s collapse, Russia sharply raised interest rates and sold off foreign currency reserves. There had also been widespread reports in recent days that top officials, including President Vladimir V. Putin, were pressuring the nation’s biggest companies and wealthiest executives for help, though any action was coyly described as voluntary.
为了应对卢布崩溃，俄罗斯不仅大幅上调利率，还抛售了外汇储备。最近几天，新闻广泛报道称，包括总统普京在内的领导层在对该国最大的企业和最富有的高管施加压力，让他们施以援手，虽然他们的各种行动都被粉饰为自愿行为。
The announcement published Tuesday on the Russian government’s main website was the first open acknowledgment that the Kremlin would use its controlling votes on the boards of directors of major companies to force economic policy decisions.
俄罗斯政府本周二在其主要网站上张贴的公告，是首次公开承认，克里姆林宫将利用其在大公司董事会中具有支配力的投票权，强行实施其经济政策层面的决定。
While controversial, the move highlighted the additional leverage available to the Russian government as a result of Mr. Putin’s re-exertion of state control throughout the economy, particularly in the energy sector. It also seemed to underscore the anxiety and consternation at the highest levels of the government over the mounting economic woes.
尽管存在争议，但此举突显了俄罗斯政府拥有额外的筹码，这是普京让政府重新控制许多经济部门、特别是能源领域的一个结果。而且此举似乎也展示了，对于日益加剧的经济危机，政府最高领导层感到惶惶不安。
In public remarks on Tuesday, the Russian prime minister, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said that without careful planning and more aggressive action, the country risked falling into an even “deeper recession.” And while Mr. Medvedev said that Russia had navigated successfully through previous downturns, Western sanctions will make recovery harder this time.
在本周二的公开发言中，俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)表示，如果不认真规划，采取更加积极的行动，该国就可能陷入“更加严重的经济衰退”。虽然梅德韦杰夫表示，俄罗斯曾经顺利度过以前的衰退，但是由于西方制裁，这次俄罗斯要恢复元气会更加困难。
“A number of countries are effectively hampering the development of our economy,” Mr. Medvedev said at a meeting of the ruling United Russia political party, which he leads. “This is bad; this is sad. But, of course, we will survive this.”
“一些国家确实在阻碍我国经济的发展，”梅德韦杰夫在他领导的执政党统一俄罗斯党的一个会议上说。“这很糟糕，很糟糕。但是，我们一定会挺过去。”
In Washington on Tuesday, a State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, expressed confidence in the effectiveness of the sanctions. “Today I think the Russians know they have a choice,” Ms. Harf said at a news conference. “They can drive their economy further into a hole, or they can take a step back and live up to their international obligations.”
本周二，在华盛顿，美国国务院发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)对于制裁的有效性表示有信心。“事到如今，我认为俄罗斯人是知道自己有选择的，”哈尔夫在新闻发布会上说。“他们可以选择让本国经济更进一步恶化，也可以退后一步，担起自己的国际义务。”
The ruble, while still down sharply for the year, has recovered a bit in recent days. On Tuesday, it remained steady at just under 55 to the dollar.
卢布汇率虽然今年年内仍然跌幅很大，但最近几天已经有所回调。本周二，它稳定在略低于1美元兑55卢布的关口。
In addition to Gazprom and Rosneft, the other corporations that will be forced to limit their foreign currency holdings are Zarubezhneft, an energy development company wholly owned by the government, as well as Alrosa, a government-controlled conglomerate of diamond mining firms, and PO Kristall, a government-owned polished diamond manufacturer.
除俄气和俄油之外，被迫削减外币持有量的公司还有：政府全资的能源开发公司俄罗斯扎鲁别日石油公司(Zarubezhneft)，政府控股的钻石开采公司埃罗莎(Alrosa)，政府拥有的钻石加工商PO Kristall。
In its announcement, the Russian government said that it would convene a meeting of the boards of directors of each company and that “the representatives of the interests of the Russian Federation” would vote to require that by March 1 “the amounts of net currency assets” are brought “to the level not exceeding that as of October 1, 2014.”
俄罗斯政府在声明中表示，将召开各公司的董事会会议，由“俄罗斯联邦利益的代表”提出在明年3月1日之前，公司持有的“净外币资产金额不超过2014年10月1日水平”的要求，并对此进行投票表决。
The government added that the central bank would oversee the process, and the companies would be required “to present on the weekly basis to the Bank of Russia reports on the amounts of net currency assets of the company.”
政府还表示，央行将对这一过程进行监督，五家公司需要“每周向央行提交公司净货币性资产金额的报告”。
It was not clear how much foreign currency the five exporters would have to sell to comply with the government’s directive. But Kommersant, one of Russia’s leading business newspapers, said combined sales could total $1 billion a day until March 1.
目前还不清楚，这五家出口商不得不出售多少外币来遵行政府指令。但俄罗斯主要商业报纸之一《生意人报》(Kommersant)称，它们可能会每天总共出售10亿美元，直到3月1日。
Some analysts had warned that if other government measures to support the ruble failed, the Russian government could be forced to impose currency controls — a step that could be perceived in the market as a sign of panic.
一些分析师此前曾警告说，如果俄罗斯政府支撑卢布汇率的其他举措失败，它可能会不得不实行货币管制——在市场上，这可能会被视为恐慌迹象。
And some critics on Tuesday said the pressure on the government-owned companies amounted to soft controls, intended to accomplish the same goal, and in that way exposed the limits of Russia’s supposed free market.
本周二，一些批评者说，对国有企业如此施压无异于“软控制”，意在达成同样的目标，这暴露了俄罗斯所谓的自由市场的局限性。