MOSCOW— Russia said on Thursday that it would stop supplying gas to Ukraine at the end of the month unless the country paid for it in advance, increasing the pressure on Kiev’s financially pressed government as it struggles to contain a growing rebellion in the country’s east.
莫斯科——俄罗斯本周四表示，它将在本月底停止对乌克兰的天然气供应，除非该国预付费用。财政紧张的基辅政府正在设法控制该国东部愈演愈烈的叛乱局势，此举又给它增添了新的压力。
In a letter to European leaders on Thursday, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said that Ukraine’s gas debt had ballooned in the last month and that Russia had received “no specific proposals” for Ukraine to “meet its contractual obligations and ensure reliable transit.”
在本周四发给欧洲领导人的一封信中，俄罗斯总统普京表示，乌克兰的天然气债务上月大幅增加，而对于乌克兰打算如何“履行其合同义务，并确保天然气的可靠输送”，俄罗斯没有收到“任何具体提议”。
“Given the circumstances, the Russian company has issued an advance invoice for gas deliveries to Ukraine, which is completely in accordance with the contract, and after June 1 gas deliveries will be limited to the amount prepaid by the Ukrainian company,” the letter, which was released on the Kremlin’s website, read.
“鉴于此，俄罗斯相关公司已经向乌克兰开出一张预付供气费用的发票，这完全是遵照合同办事。6月1日之后，该公司只会根据乌克兰公司预付的费用来输送相应量的天然气，”这封发布在克里姆林宫网站上的信件表示。
Mr. Putin first warned that Gazprom, the Russian state energy company, would demand payment in advance for deliveries to Ukraine in a letter to European leaders in mid-April.
普京最初是在4月中旬一封写给欧洲领导人的信中发出警告，说该国的国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)要求相关公司提前为输送到乌克兰的天然气付费。
“Undoubtedly, this is an extreme measure,” he wrote at the time.
“毫无疑问，这是一种极端措施，”他当时写道。
On Thursday, Mr. Putin said that Ukraine’s debt to Gazprom, had grown from $2.237 billion in early April to $3.508 billion by mid-May.
本周四，普京说，乌克兰欠俄罗斯天然气工业公司的债务已经从4月初的22.37亿美元（约合人民币140亿元）增至5月中旬的35.08亿美元。
The new numbers reflected a sharp and controversial increase in gas prices for Ukraine that has been seen as a punitive reaction to the ouster of President Viktor F. Yanukovych in February.
新数字是以一个有争议的费率来计算的。乌克兰今年2月把总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)赶下台，作为一种惩罚性的回应，俄罗斯大幅提高了出售给乌克兰的天然气价格。
In a deal signed by Mr. Putin and Mr. Yanukovych in December, Russia agreed to sell gas to Ukraine at a price of $268 for 1,000 cubic meters. Last month, after Mr. Yanukovych’s ouster, Gazprom raised the price to $385 for 1,000 cubic meters, the standard measure for gas in Europe and a severe blow to the fledgling government as Ukraine teetered on the verge of bankruptcy.
根据普京和亚努科维奇去年12月签署的一份协议，俄罗斯同意以每1000立方米268美元的价格向乌克兰出售天然气。上个月，亚努科维奇下台之后，俄罗斯天然气工业公司将价格上调至每 1000立方米385美元，跟向欧洲出售天然气的费率相当。就在乌克兰濒临破产之际，此举严重打击了羽翼未丰的新政府。
Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, Ukraine’s interim prime minister, said earlier this month that Ukraine would be willing to repay its gas debt under the strict condition that it pay the lower price.
乌克兰临时政府总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)本月初表示，乌克兰愿意偿还其天然气债务，但必须严格以较低的费率为前提。
At a news conference in Kiev earlier on Thursday, Ukraine’s deputy energy minister, Igor Didenko, said the country was ready to pay $4 billion for gas to Gazprom by the end of May but only at $268.50 for 1,000 cubic meters, the Interfax news service reported.
本周四早些时候，在基辅召开的新闻发布会上，乌克兰能源部副部长伊戈尔·迪登科(Igor Didenko)称该国准备在5月底之前支付40亿美元给俄罗斯天然气工业公司，但只会按照每1000立方米268.50美元的价格来付费，国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报导。
In his letter, Mr. Putin noted that Ukraine’s failure to pay the debt came despite the country receiving $3.2 billion from the International Monetary Fund as the first tranche of a $17 billion loan to the country.
普京在信中指出，乌克兰尽管从国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）接受了32亿美元的资金，但仍然未能支付债务。这些钱是170亿美元的IMF贷款中的第一笔。
“I would like to emphasize once again that we were forced to make this decision,” Mr. Putin said. “We also hope that the European Commission will more actively engage in the dialogue in order to work out specific and fair solutions that will help stabilize the Ukrainian economy.”
“我想再次强调，我们是被迫做出这个决定的，”普京说，“我们也希望，欧盟委员会将更加积极地参与对话，以制定出具体、公平的解决方案，帮助稳定乌克兰的经济局势。”