BRUSSELS — Russian and Ukrainian officials meeting here on Tuesday failed to reach a deal that would restart Russian deliveries of natural gas during the coming winter.
布鲁塞尔——周二在这里会面的俄罗斯和乌克兰官员，没能就俄罗斯在即将到来的冬天重新开始为乌克兰输送天然气一事达成协议。
The dispute, which focuses on how much and how soon Ukraine should pay Russia for gas it has already consumed, and the terms for future deliveries, has raised concerns in Europe that supplies of energy from Russia that are piped through Ukraine could be interrupted this winter.
争议的焦点包括：乌克兰应该为业已消费的天然气向俄罗斯支付多少费用，在多长时间内支付，以及与今后的天然气输送有关的条件。一些欧洲国家担心，这可能会对俄罗斯今冬取道乌克兰为其供应天然气的进程构成干扰。
Günther H. Oettinger, the European Union energy commissioner who has already brokered several rounds of talks, told a news conference that he aimed to sign a final agreement next Wednesday.
已经主持了若干轮会谈的欧盟(European Union)能源专员金特·H·厄廷格(Günther H. Oettinger)在记者招待会上表示，他的目标是在下周三签署最终协议。
During the coming days “everyone has got some homework to do,” Mr. Oettinger said late Tuesday, after talks that lasted most of the day. But “we have some prospects of a secure supply situation this winter for all European citizens,” he said.
周二的会谈持续了大半天。厄廷格于当天晚些时候表示，在接下来的几天里，“每个人都要做一些功课”。但“我们有望在这个冬天确保天然气供应，满足欧洲民众所需”，他说。
The standoff between Russia and Ukraine is delicate for the European Union, which is reliant on the shipment of gas through Ukraine for about a fifth of its gas supplies. Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas giant, shut the taps in 2006 and 2009 because of disputes with Ukraine, leaving many homes in Central and Eastern Europe without heat.
对欧盟而言，俄罗斯与乌克兰之间的对峙是个微妙的问题。欧盟所需天然气供应量的五分之一，得经由乌克兰境内的输油管道运送。由于与乌克兰发生争议，天然气巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）曾在2006年和2009年切断天然气供应，致使东欧和中欧的许多家庭失去供暖。
Russia raised its gas prices to Ukraine early this year, and Gazprom halted exports in June because of the size of Ukraine’s outstanding bills. But the Ukrainians have accused the Russians of deliberately setting unfair terms to penalize the government in Kiev for tying itself more closely to the West.
俄罗斯在今年年初上调了向乌克兰出口天然气的价格；由于乌克兰拖欠巨额货款，今年6月，俄气公司停止了对它的天然气出口。但乌克兰人控诉称，为了惩罚与西方关系愈发密切的位于基辅的乌国政府，俄方故意设置了不公平的条件。
The gas feud represents another front between Ukraine and Russia. Skirmishing in eastern Ukraine has continued in recent weeks between pro-Russian rebels and forces allied with the government in Kiev despite a cease-fire.
乌克兰和俄罗斯在天然气问题上一直存在纠纷，这是两国间的第二条战线。最近几周，在乌克兰东部，亲俄反叛分子与乌克兰政府军仍有小型冲突，尽管双方已经达成了一项停火协议。
Key sticking points in the gas talks have been how to calculate the size of Ukraine’s debt and how quickly it should be repaid. One remaining question is whether the European Union will step in to help Ukraine pay its bills.
天然气谈判的主要症结在于，如何估算乌克兰的债务规模，以及乌克兰应该以多快的速度清偿债务。余下的问题是，欧盟是否会介入，帮乌克兰还债。
Of the $3.1 billion that Ukraine was agreeing to pay toward settling its debt, an amount of $1.6 billion “is still lacking,” Alexander Novak, the Russian energy minister, told reporters.
俄罗斯能源部长亚历山大·诺瓦克(Alexander Novak)告诉记者，乌克兰同意支付31亿美元结清债务，“目前尚缺”16亿美元。
“This cash gap requires funding,” said Mr. Novak, who suggested that the European Union “should examine the situation and share some of that burden.”
诺瓦克说，“这个资金缺口需要填补。”他建议欧盟“审时度势，分担一些债务”。