ASTANA, Kazakhstan — The presidents of Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus formally signed an agreement Thursday to create a limited economic union — an alliance hobbled by the absence of Ukraine but one long pursued by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to confirm his country as a global economic force.
哈萨克斯坦阿斯塔纳——周四，俄罗斯、哈萨克斯坦以及白俄罗斯总统正式签署协议，成立了一个有限的经济联盟。这一联盟虽因乌克兰缺席而不完整，但却是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)期盼已久的事物，为的是确认俄罗斯的全球经济强国地位。
“Today we are creating a powerful, attractive center of economic development, a big regional market that unites more than 170 million people,” Mr. Putin said during the ceremonies. He underscored the significant energy resources, work force and cultural heritage of the combined nations.
普京在签署仪式上发言称，“我们今天成立了一个强大而有吸引力的经济发展中心、一个联合了1.7亿多人口的巨大区域市场。”他强调，这些国家合在一起，就拥有规模可观的能源资源、劳动力及文化遗产。
The geography of the group, formally known as the Eurasian Economic Union, meant it had the potential to create a global transportation hub joining the trade flows of Europe and Asia, Mr. Putin said, sitting at a table with his two fellow leaders in front of their respective flags.
这个组织的正式名称是欧亚经济联盟(Eurasian Economic Union)。普京说，欧亚经济联盟的地理位置意味着它有可能成为全球交通枢纽，连接亚洲和欧洲的贸易流通。说话之时，普京和另外两国领导人一起坐在一张桌子跟前，身后立着各自国家的旗帜。
But the alliance that comes into force on Jan. 1 will be a pale imitation of what the members first envisioned, an eastern version of the 28-member European Union.
然而，这个将于1月1日正式生效的联盟只是对其成员国最初设想的一个苍白模拟，他们最初的打算是成立一个东方版的欧盟，欧盟拥有28个成员国。
“Three weak economies getting together and integrating, how much good can come out of it?” said Nargis Kassenova, the director of the Central Asian Studies Center at Kimep University in Almaty, Kazakhstan, and part of a small but vocal opposition to the union in Kazakhstan. “Now it is even worse because one is under sanctions and drifting away from the West,” she added, referring to Western economic sanctions against Russia.
阿拉木图的哈萨克斯坦管理经济战略研究院(Kimep University)中亚研究中心(Central Asian Studies Center)主任纳尔吉斯·卡森诺瓦(Nargis Kassenova)称，“三个虚弱的经济体凑在一起搞一体化，能带来多少好处？”卡森诺瓦还是哈萨克斯坦一个反对这一联盟的团体的一员，这个团体人数虽少，但却敢于发声。提到西方对俄罗斯的经济制裁时，她还表示，“现在更糟糕了，因为有一个国家受到了制裁，正在远离西方。”
The missing guest at the party was Ukraine. The previous government in Kiev tacked back and forth on whether it would join the European Union or the new Eurasian group, eventually prompting enough public anger to bring down the president last February.
这场聚会的缺席嘉宾是乌克兰。基辅的前任政府一直摇摆不定，不知该加入欧盟还是这个新的欧亚集团，最终激起了民众的强烈愤怒，导致前总统在今年2月被赶下台。
“We lost someone along the way, I mean Ukraine,” said Alexander Lukashenko, the president of Belarus. Mr. Lukashenko, who received a $2 billion loan and energy concessions from Russia just before the signing, also said the union was less than anticipated. “Unfortunately, it is not the agreement that our partners originally announced,” he told Belta, the official Belarus news agency.
白俄罗斯总统亚历山大·卢卡申科(Alexander Lukashenko) 说，“我们在途中失去了一个国家，我说的是乌克兰。”协议即将签署的时候，卢卡申科从俄罗斯得到了一笔20亿美元（约合125亿元人民币）的贷款及能源折扣。他还称，这个联盟比预期少了一些东西。他对白俄罗斯通讯社(Belta)说，“很遗憾，这不是我们的合作伙伴原来宣布的那个协议。”
He also called for economic unity to be followed by political and military unity, a concept that Kazakhstan flatly rejected.
他还呼吁在经济联合之后实现政治和军事联合，这一理念遭到了哈萨克斯坦的断然拒绝。
“We are not creating a political organization; we are forming a purely economic union,” Bakytzhan Sagintayev, the first deputy prime minister and lead negotiator, said in an interview. “It is a pragmatic means to get benefits. We don’t meddle into what Russia is doing politically, and they cannot tell us what foreign policy to pursue.” The agreement coalesced with great fanfare — and quickly, with members changing trade laws in a matter of years that required decades for the European Union. But in the end it became less about promoting economic development than providing Russia with a diplomatic win, analysts said.
第一副首相兼首席谈判代表巴克特然·萨金塔耶夫 (Bakytzhan Sagintayev)在一次采访中说，“我们成立的不是政治组织，而是一个纯经济联盟。这是一种获取利益的务实方式。我们不想掺和俄罗斯的政治行动，他们也不能对我们的外交政策指手画脚。”这一协议曾引起极大轰动，进展也很快，成员国只花几年的时间就修改了贸易法规，而欧盟则用了几十年。但是，分析人士称，最终看来，此事没怎么促进经济发展，更多是为俄罗斯带来了一场外交胜利。
Like the huge gas agreement Russia signed with China earlier this month, the Eurasian Economic Union is a way for Moscow to show that it is pivoting to Asia and that the Western sanctions imposed after Russia annexed Crimea will not succeed in isolating it.
本月早些时候，俄罗斯与中国签署了一项规模巨大的天然气协议，与天然气协议一样，欧亚经济联盟也是莫斯科的一个手段，旨在显示俄罗斯正在转向亚洲、西方在俄吞并克里米亚之后施加的制裁并不能孤立俄罗斯。
“It is meant to signal that these Western programs and opprobrium are not having an effect on the economy and that Russia is developing into a distinct pole in the multipolar system,” said Alexander Cooley, a political science professor at Barnard College.
巴纳德学院(Barnard College)政治学教授亚历山大·库利(Alexander Cooley)说，“这是为了传递一个信号，即西方的举措和谴责不会对俄罗斯经济造成影响，而俄罗斯正在发展成为多极体系之中的重要一极。”
Some analysts suggest that the loss of Ukraine as a potential member was the death knell for the Eurasian Economic Union. On a purely economic scale, losing Ukraine meant losing a market of nearly 50 million people. Ukraine also provided economic diversity when paired with the two energy exporters.
一些分析人士指出，失去乌克兰这个潜在的成员国为欧亚经济联盟带来了不祥的预兆。单从经济方面来衡量，失去乌克兰就意味着失去一个人口近5000万的市场。此外，乌克兰本来能为这个联盟带来经济上的多样性，因为其他两个成员国都是能源出口国。
But more important, the use of the military has spooked the other members. At the last moment, some senior figures questioned the idea of the union itself.
但是更重要的是，俄罗斯动武的举措惊吓到了其他国家。在最后时刻，一些重要人物对这个联盟的想法本身提出了质疑。
“We cannot be in a union with an occupying state,” Oraz Jandosov, a former Kazakh central bank governor and finance minister, said in a March interview with the website Ratel.su. He fretted about Western economic sanctions on Russia reverberating through the Kazakh economy.
3月，前哈萨克中央银行行长兼财政部长奥拉兹·扬道索夫(Oraz Jandosov)在接受Ratel.ru网站采访时说，“我们不能与一个占领国结盟。”他担心西方对俄罗斯的经济制裁会波及哈萨克斯坦的经济。
Kazakhstan also felt vulnerable in particular because one-quarter of its population is ethnic Russians, concentrated along the northern border. Mr. Putin and other senior figures stressed that Russia felt it had the right to safeguard the 25 million ethnic Russians outside its borders.
此外，哈萨克斯坦觉得自身也易于遭受攻击，尤其是因为该国有四分之一的人口属于俄罗斯族，这些人集中居住在北部边境沿线。普京及其他高级官员曾强调，俄罗斯认为自己有权保护境外的2500万俄罗斯族人。
Russia proposed several attributes that mirrored the European Union, including a common passport and currency, a collective Parliament, a common border force and a common economic foreign policy. But Kazakhstan applied the brakes to anything other than economic ties.
俄罗斯曾提出几项效仿欧盟的举措，包括统一护照和货币、共同议会、共同边境力量以及共同经济外交政策。然而，哈萨克斯坦否决了除经济联系以外的任何提议。
The speeches glossed over such differences.
各方的发言掩盖了此类分歧。
“Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan are moving toward a completely new level of cooperation by creating a common space where goods, services, capital and work force can move freely,” Mr. Putin said. “The three states will follow a coordinated policy in such key branches of the economy as energy, industry, agriculture and transport.”
普京说，“俄罗斯、白俄罗斯和哈萨克斯坦正在向一个全新的合作阶段迈进，创建了一个允许货物、服务、资金和劳动力自由流通的共同区域。三个国家将在能源、工业、农业和交通等重要经济领域遵循协调一致的政策。”