MOSCOW — Like a dream patient conjured up in the boardroom of a pharmaceutical company, the Russian grandmother accepted the risks of the drug she was taking without complaint and cheerily endured even extraordinary side effects.
莫斯科——这个俄罗斯老奶奶简直就是制药公司梦寐以求的理想患者，她不仅毫无怨言地接受了服用药物的风险，还乐呵呵地忍受着严重的副作用。
As a test subject in a Russian clinical trial for an experimental weight loss drug, Galina I. Malinina had to inject herself in the stomach daily. “No problem,” she said. “The needle is thin and the dose is small.”
作为一种在俄罗斯进行临床试验的新减肥药的受试者，加林娜·I·马利尼纳(Galina I. Malinina) 必须每天自己在胃部进行注射。“没问题，”她说。“针头很细，剂量也小。”
The first time she did this at a hospital where long-faced, white-robed doctors stood by and observed her intently, Ms. Malinina soon vomited. After that, she threw up every day for two weeks, yet stuck to the regimen, something valued by companies, as dropouts are expensive.
马利尼纳第一次这样做的时候，医院里脸拉的长长的、穿着白大褂的医生站在旁边目不转睛地看着她，注射后不久她就呕吐起来。从那以后，她每天都吐，一直吐了两个礼拜，但她还在坚持服药，这正是制药公司所看重的，因为中途退出的成本很高。
“It’s wonderful,” she said of the test substance, a weight loss serum under development by the Danish biotechnology giant Novo Nordisk. In addition to losing 22 pounds in a year, she said, “I became more lively; I walk easier and I have energy.”
“太棒了，”她这样评价测试药物，那是一种减肥血清，由丹麦生物科技巨头诺和诺德公司(Novo Nordisk)研发。除了一年内减掉22磅以外，她说，“我还变得更有活力，走路更轻松，更有力气。”
Ms. Malinina’s willingness, like that of thousands of other Russians, to take part in drug trials illustrates a remarkably advantageous development for the international pharmaceutical industry, which is running up against high costs and recruitment difficulties in the United States and Europe.
和马利尼纳女士一样，还有成千上万的俄罗斯人愿意参加药物临床试验，这表明国际制药行业在俄罗斯获得了非常有利的发展，这一行业在美国和欧洲都陷入了成本高和受试人员招募难的困境。
Russian regulators, Russian doctors and even many patients are increasingly embracing any chance they can get to take part in medical experiments.
俄罗斯监管机构、医生，甚至很多患者都越来越热衷于抓住各种机会来参加医学实验。
Patients, as was the case with Ms. Malinina, are eager to join trials because often it is the only way to receive modern medical care.
像马利尼纳女士这样的患者迫不及待参加临床试验的原因在于，这往往是他们获得现代医疗服务的唯一途径。
That creates a pool of willing test subjects. The government of President Vladimir V. Putin, eager to diversify Russia’s economy away from oil dependence, welcomes the jobs and high-tech investment associated with clinical trials, and has eased access for drug companies to the Russian patients as an incentive to lure in these benefits.
这也由此产生了大量自愿参加临床试验的受试者。迫切地想将依赖石油的俄罗斯经济多样化的弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin) 政府欢迎临床试验所带来的工作机会和高科技投资，作为引进这些利益的激励手段，普京政府为制药公司打开方便之门，让它们很容易就能找到俄罗斯的患者。
In fact, under a law passed in 2010, ostensibly on health grounds, foreign drug companies must test medicine on Russians for it to be marketed in Russia.
事实上，一项在2010年通过的法律基于健康理由明文规定，如果外国制药公司想在俄罗斯市场上销售某种药品，就必须在俄罗斯人身上先进行药物测试。
The law has the effect of compelling investment in clinical testing on Russians, trade groups say. And it is working. The number of drugs tested on Russians has shot up over the last year. Russian regulators approved 448 clinical trials in the first six months of 2012, compared to 201 in the same period a year earlier — an increase of 123 percent.
一些行业组织说，该法律起到了强迫制药公司在俄罗斯人身上进行临床试验的作用，而且行之有效。去年在俄罗斯人身上进行测试的药品数量飞涨。俄罗斯监管机构2012年上半年批准了448项临床试验，和去年同期的201项相比增长了123%。
Russia is not alone in opening the doors of hospitals in the national health system to drug companies looking for test subjects, in a quid pro quo with the international industry that conducts tests globally for a better demographic representation.
除了俄罗斯，还有其他国家将公立医院的大门向寻找受试者的制药公司敞开，作为交换，这些在国际领域进行测试的跨国公司获得了更均衡的人群分布。
Testing in Russia is a net benefit to public health, pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into diagnostic work and doctor care that would not have been here otherwise. Much of the business swirls around lower-risk testing of generic replacements for brand-name drugs.
在俄罗斯进行试验对于公共卫生来说是一种净收益，否则，就不可能有数亿美金投入到诊断工作和医护服务上。大部分业务是对专利药（brand-name drug，药厂自行研发、拥有专利保护的药物）的非专利替代药的低风险测试。
Singapore, South Korea and China are among countries offering incentives or compelling companies to conduct clinical trials locally, John Lewis, the vice president for the Association of Clinical Research Organizations, a trade group, said in a telephone interview from Washington.
美国临床研究机构协会(Association of Clinical Research Organizations)是一家行业协会，协会副会长约翰·刘易斯(John Lewis)在华盛顿接受电话采访时说，新加坡、韩国、中国都在利诱或者迫使制药公司在本国进行临床试验。
Ethically, if a clinical trial will most likely improve a patient’s health — for whatever reason, including because the patient lacks access to standard, already accepted care — a doctor should admit the patient to the trial.
从医学伦理来说，如果一项临床试验很有可能改善患者的健康状况——不管患者是因为得不到标准的、已经被广泛接受的医疗护理，还是由于其他原因导致此前疗效不明显——医生都应该让这名患者参加临床试验。
“We see a lot of governments encouraging testing for economic benefits, for health care benefits and for innovation benefits,” he said.
他说，“我们看到很多政府是出于经济利益、医疗保健利益以及创新利益鼓励临床试验。”
Drug companies benefit, too, though the association does not endorse that motive. “Clinical trials should be viewed as experiments, as investigations, not as treatment,” Mr. Lewis said.
尽管该协会并不赞成这一动机，但制药公司也确实得到了益处。刘易斯说，“临床试验应该被看作测试，看作研究，而不是治疗。”
A host of pharmaceutical companies operate in Russia, including Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Pfizer. The companies use the results of trials in Russia, as elsewhere, to help win approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration.
很多制药公司在俄罗斯开展业务，包括拜耳(Bayer)、百时美施贵宝(Bristol-Myers Squibb)、礼来(Eli Lilly)、诺华(Novartis)、诺和诺德以及辉瑞(Pfizer)。这些公司利用在俄罗斯以及其他地方的临床试验结果来获得美国食品药品监督管理局（United States Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）的批准。
Companies have turned to Russia in particular to test experimental psychiatric medicines, sometimes in the same mental health wards once used to confine Soviet dissidents. There is no indication political detainees are used today in drug testing.
一些制药公司移师俄罗斯来进行临床试验，最主要是为了测试治疗精神疾病的药物。有时候这些临床试验就在曾经囚禁前苏联异见人士的精神病院里进行。没有迹象表明制药公司现在在用政治犯进行药物测试。
But there have been strange results. In 2007, an F.D.A. official wrote that the agency approved Eli Lilly’s top-selling antipsychotic drug Zyprexa for use by adolescents based on the results of a Russian test, even though trials in the United States showed the drug had no effect. Why tests differed in Russia and the United States was never explained. Doctors now routinely prescribe the drug for American adolescents.
但确实出现了奇怪的药物实验结果。2007年，一位FDA官员写道，在俄罗斯临床试验的基础上，该机构批准了礼来制药公司畅销的青少年抗精神病药物——再普乐(Zyprexa)，尽管美国的临床试验表明这种药物没有任何疗效。从来没人解释为什么俄罗斯和美国的测试结果如此大相径庭。现在美国医生经常给青少年开这种药物。
Companies are exploring creative ways to take advantage of Russia’s embrace of clinical testing as a means to attract biotech investment.
制药公司在探索各种新办法来尽可能利用俄罗斯对临床试验的支持，普京政府把临床试验当成吸引生物技术投资的手段。
In March, Domain Associates, an American venture capital firm, agreed to jointly invest with the Russian government about $760 million in 20 biotechnology start-up companies in the United States. The investment was intended to help Russia transfer drug development expertise to its own, nascent biotech industry.
三月份，美国风投公司多曼联合公司(Domain Associates)同意和俄罗斯政府一起，为美国的20家生物技术初创公司投资约7.6亿美金。这项投资旨在帮助俄罗斯把药品研发的专业技能转移到该国新兴的生物技术行业上。
As an incentive for the American drug companies it will invest in, the joint venture offered to help these start-ups conduct “advanced stage clinical trials in Russia of new pharmaceuticals,” according to a statement.
投资者发表声明表示，为了激励其投资的美国制药公司，这项合资计划主动提出帮助这些初创公司“在俄罗斯对新药进行进一步的临床试验。”
In another example, VitaPortal, a Russian Web site analogous to WebMD, plans to profit by helping pharmaceutical companies find test subjects among visitors to the Web site who have searched for information about particular ailments.
另外一个例子是，一个类似WebMD（美国最大的医疗服务信息网站）的俄罗斯网站——维塔门户网(Vita Portal)，正计划通过帮助这些制药公司寻找受试者而盈利，他们将在登陆这个网站搜索某种疾病信息的网友中寻找目标。
For Russian doctors, the benefits of the globalization of clinical trials are clear from cases like that of Albert V. Chupikov, a 75-year-old cardiac patient enrolled in a trial in Moscow who was referred for an interview by one of his doctors. He said he joined because he could not find treatment elsewhere.
对于俄罗斯医生来说，阿尔伯特·V·崔可夫(Albert V. Chupikov) 的例子说明了临床试验全球化的好处是显而易见的，这位75岁的心脏病患者接受一位医生的建议，在面试后参加了一项在莫斯科进行的试验。他说他加入的原因在于他在其他地方得不到治疗。
“It was really, really hard to find a doctor,” he said. “We couldn’t find one.” So he joined a trial to take an experimental medicine, a choice that worked well for him.
“真的，真的很难找到医生，”他说。“我们一个也找不到。”所以他加入这项临床试验来服用试验中的药物，这个选择对他很有效。
He credits the trial for keeping him alive. “I understand I won’t get any healthier. So it’s important not to get worse. And it hasn’t gotten worse. So I’m thankful.”
他把能够活下来归功于这项临床试验。“我明白我的身体不可能更加健康了，重要的是不恶化就好。我也确实没恶化，所以我很感激这项试验。”
Supporters of the expanding business in Russia note it has room to grow. For every one million people in the United States, drug companies are conducting 46.8 clinical trials, according to the National Institutes of Health, which keeps a running tally. In the European Union the average is 11.5, and in Russia a mere 3.3. About 5 percent of global clinical trials are conducted in Russia, compared with about 50 percent in the United States.
支持这项业务在俄罗斯扩张的人士指出它还有增长的空间。根据美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)的统计数据，在美国，对于每100万人的人群来说，制药公司进行46.8次临床试验。在欧盟，平均试验次数是11.5，在俄罗斯，仅仅是3.3。大概5％的全球临床试验是在俄罗斯进行的，而在美国进行了约50％。
“America is saturated with clinical trials,” Svetlana Zavidova, the director of a trade group promoting the business in Russia, said in an interview.
在俄罗斯推广这一业务的一家行业协会的会长斯韦特兰娜·扎维达沃(Svetlana Zavidova)在采访中说，“美国的临床试验已经饱和了。”
The National Center for Preventive Medicine, a research hospital on a leafy back street in Moscow, is testing dozens of new drugs for American and European companies this fall, with a range of promising uses and side effects.
今年秋天，在莫斯科一条绿树成荫的后街上，俄罗斯国家医学预防中心(National Center for Preventive Medicine)正在帮助欧美的一些制药公司测试数十种新药的疗效和副作用，这是一家研究型医院。
The weight loss medicine gets the pounds off, but patients often vomit or lose control of their bowels. A prostate medicine being tested here on young male volunteers can cause dizziness and spontaneous erections. Elderly patients are raving about the energy-elevating effects of one experimental drug, Dr. Svetlana N. Toppygina, a lead doctor on the studies, said.
这些研究的领头人物斯韦特兰娜·N·托佩吉纳(Svetlana N. Toppygina)博士说，减肥药确实能让人们掉好几磅体重，但是患者们经常出现呕吐或者大便失禁。一种在年轻男性志愿者身上测试的前列腺药物会使他们头晕目眩、异常勃起。老年患者则对一种实验药物提升精力的作用赞不绝口。
That energy-enhancing substance, from a class of drugs banned as doping in sports, was once tested on soldiers to raise stamina and mood. So far the trial is going well with geriatric cardiac patients, who all seem spry after taking their pills.
这种提升精力的药物和在体育运动中禁用的兴奋剂属于一类药，以前曾经在士兵中测试过，了解它是否能增强体力、调动情绪。目前为止，这项试验在老年心脏病患者身上进行得很顺利，服药以后所有人都看起来神采奕奕的。
Folya M. Gonopolsky, an 83-year-old retired engineer who is taking these pills with his wife, Margarita, said, “They told me I would feel better and I do.” 
83岁的退休工程师福亚·M·戈诺波尔斯基 (Folya M. Gonopolsky)和他的妻子玛格丽塔(Margarita)一起服用这种药，“他们告诉我服药以后我会感觉好些，我确实感觉好多了。”
At a recent appointment, the two received free electrocardiograms and consultations, then shuffled into a room to take the experimental medicine, laid out on a table in tiny plastic bags beside glasses of water. “Take the pills,” a doctor said. They did.
在最近一次试验中，他们两个做了免费的心电图和咨询，然后慢吞吞地走到一间房里服用实验药物，装药的小塑料袋已经放在桌子上，旁边是水杯。“吃药，”医生说。他们照做了。
Inevitably, tests sometimes do go awry.
试验过程中出差错是不可避免的。
Vera G. Belolipetskaya is the supervisor of the ward where patients are observed in early-stage trials. Here, a substance is tested on humans for the first time after animal trials. These studies are also done more cheaply and swiftly in Russia than the West, as volunteers, perhaps tapping Russians’ deep sense of fatalism, are surprisingly forthcoming.
薇拉·G·别洛利佩茨卡亚(Vera G. Belolipetskaya) 是观察早期临床试验患者的病房的主管。在这里，一种药物在进行了动物试验以后，正首次进行人体试验。这些试验在俄罗斯进行要比在西方国家更便宜更快捷，或许是源于俄罗斯人那种深深的宿命感，志愿者在这里简直可以信手拈来，这让人惊异不已。
Once, an experimental antibiotic set off allergic reactions. Doctors stared in amazement at the students and migrant workers who volunteered to take it.
一次，一种新抗生素进行过敏反应试验。医生们吃惊地盯着这些自愿服药的学生和外来务工人员。
“It was like something from the cartoon ‘Tom and Jerry,’ when a character gets sick,” Dr. Belolipetskaya said. “Red dots started appearing all over, right in front of my eyes. They appeared in just a few minutes. It was really shocking.”
“这一幕有点像动画片《猫和老鼠》(Tomand Jerry)，一个人突然发生不适，全身出现红点，而且就发生在我眼前，就是几分钟的事情。这真是让人很震惊，” 别洛利佩茨卡亚博士说。
On a recent morning, Yevgeny Maksimov, a 32-year-old computer salesman, slouched in a chair and waited for his turn in these trials. On offer: $180 to take the experimental prostate drug.
最近，在一天清早，32岁的计算机销售员叶夫根尼·马克西莫夫(Yevgeny Maksimov) 懒洋洋地蜷缩在一把椅子上，等着参加测试。这次的报价是：服用一种治疗前列腺疾病的实验药物，获得180美金。
He would be enclosed in a ward under observation for 24 hours, then let go and asked to return two weeks later for a follow-up.
他会被关在病房里，由医生观察24小时后离开，两周以后按要求回来进行随访。
“Why not? I take risks every day,” Mr. Maksimov said, noting that he recently flew on a Russian-made airplane.
“为什么不呢？我每天都在冒险，”马克西莫夫先生说，他最近才乘坐过一架俄罗斯制造的飞机。