BAGHDAD—Iraqi government officials said Sunday that Russian experts had arrived in Iraq to help the army get 12 new Russian warplanes into the fight against Sunni extremists, while the extremists declared their leader the caliph, or absolute ruler, of all jihadi organizations worldwide.
巴格达——伊拉克政府官员周日表示，俄罗斯专家已经抵达伊拉克，帮伊拉克军方筹备12架新型俄罗斯战机，应对逊尼派极端分子。而极端分子宣称，他们的领袖是世界所有圣战组织的哈里发(caliph)，即绝对统治者。
The Russian move was at least an implicit rebuke to the United States, which the Iraqis believe has been too slow to supply American F-16s and attack helicopters — although the United States is now in the process of providing both. 
俄罗斯的举动对美国至少是一种隐晦的谴责。伊拉克认为，美国提供F–16战机和武装直升机的行动过于迟缓——虽然美国目前正在准备提供这两种飞机的过程中。
“In the coming three or four days the aircraft will be in service to support our forces in the fight” against the insurgents of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, said Gen. Anwar Hama Ameen, the commander of the Iraqi Air Force, referring to five SU-25 aircraft that were flown into Iraq aboard Russian cargo planes Saturday night, and two more expected later Sunday.
“在未来三四天内，这些飞机将被用来支持我军战斗”，用来对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的叛乱分子，伊拉克空军指挥官安瓦尔·哈马·阿明将军(Anwar Hama Ameen)说。他这里指的是周六夜间由俄罗斯货机运到伊拉克的五架SU–25飞机，周日晚些时候还将有另外两架被运到伊拉克。
Also on Sunday, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria released a 34-minute audio recording of a speech by its official spokesman, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, who said that the insurgency’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, was now the world’s caliph and as such had declared all other jihadi organizations void and under his direct control, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremists’ online presence.
同样在周日，ISIS发布了其官方发言人阿布·穆罕默德·阿德纳尼(Abu Mohammed al-Adnani)一段34分钟的讲话。他说，武装分子的头领阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)现在是世界的哈里发，所以其他所有圣战组织都是无效组织，应由他直接控制。前述消息来自监控极端组织网络活动的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)。
The audio speech was released on an ISIS-linked Twitter feed, the group said.
赛德情报集团称，这段音频是在一个与ISIS有关的Twitter账户之中发布的。
ISIS’ bombastic announcement of its hegemony over the world’s Islamic extremists was little more than a propaganda ploy, but it was indicative of its growing ambitions.
ISIS夸口宣称它要控制全世界的伊斯兰极端主义者，这种说法只不过是一种宣传策略，但它也表明了ISIS日益增长的野心。
ISIS, originally formed from the broken remnants of Al Qaeda in Iraq, split with Al Qaeda last year when that group’s leaders ordered it to leave Syria.
ISIS最初由基地组织(Al Qaeda)在伊拉克的残余势力组成。去年，由于基地组织领袖命令它离开叙利亚，它便与基地组织决裂。
Since then, ISIS has battled with Qaeda-linked jihadis in Syria, as well as with non-extremist rebel forces there, for control of the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
从那以后，ISIS在叙利亚就既对抗与基地组织有关的圣战组织，又对抗当地并不极端的反对派势力，意图控制反抗叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的战斗。
The ISIS announcement also revealed Mr. Baghdadi’s alleged real name — Ibrahim Ibn Awwad Ibn Ibrahim Ali Ibn Muhammad al-Badri al-Hashimi al-Husayni al-Qurashi — and said he would be known as Caliph Ibrahim for short.
ISIS的声明也透露了巴格达迪所谓的真实姓名——易卜拉欣·伊本·阿瓦德·伊本·易卜拉欣·阿里·伊本·穆罕默德·巴德里·哈希米·胡赛尼·古拉希(Ibrahim Ibn Awwad Ibn Ibrahim Ali Ibn Muhammad al-Badri al-Hashimi al-Husayni al-Qurashi)——还说要把他简称为“哈里发易卜拉欣”。
A caliphate is a Muslim empire that in theory encompasses all Muslims worldwide, and is a term used to describe empires like that of the Ottomans in Turkey in the 15th to 20th centuries, as well as those that did rule much of the civilized world in the early days of Islam.
哈里发国(caliphate)一词指穆斯林帝国，理论上涵盖世界上的所有穆斯林。这个词用来描述15至20世纪的奥斯曼土耳其帝国，以及在伊斯兰教诞生初期，的确统治了大部分文明世界的帝国。
In present-day Baghdad, the Iraqi Air Force commander, General Ameen, said that Russian military experts had arrived to help set up the new SU-25 warplanes, but that they would stay only a short time. The last five Russian aircraft would arrive by Monday, he said.
在当今的巴格达，伊拉克空军指挥官阿明表示，俄罗斯军事专家已抵达当地，帮忙部署新的SU–25战机，但他们不会逗留太久。他说，最后五架俄罗斯飞机将于周一抵达。
Last week, President Obama ordered 300 American military advisers into the country, and the Iranians have reportedly sent advisers from their Republican Guards’ Quds Force.
上周，奥巴马总统命令300名美国军事顾问进入伊拉克。同时，据报道伊朗也从其共和国卫队(Republican Guard)的圣城军(Quds Force)中派出了顾问。
At least three United States Special Forces teams are said to have been deployed north of Baghdad in recent days, tasked with carrying out a survey of Iraqi forces to determine their condition and needs.
据称美国特种部队(United States Special Forces)已有三支分队在最近几天部署到了巴格达北部，它们的任务是核查伊拉克部队，从而确定他们的状况和需求。
This was the first report of Russian military aides in the country, although General Ameen said they were experts, not advisers.
这是俄罗斯向伊拉克派遣军事助手的第一则消息，不过阿明表示他们是专家，不是顾问。
American officials, citing intelligence reports, have said that Iran has been sending surveillance drones over Iraq as well as supplying the government with military equipment and support.
美国官员援引情报报告称，伊朗已经开始向伊拉克派遣无人侦察机，并向伊拉克政府提供军事设备和支援。
Sunni jihadi fighters were reported on Sunday to have stalled a government offensive to retake the central Iraqi city of Tikrit. Insurgents had apparently regained control of key government buildings in the center of Tikrit, according to witnesses who reported seeing the black flag of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, flying over many important buildings.
据报道，逊尼派圣战分子周日拖住了政府军试图夺回伊拉克中部城市提克里特的攻势。据目击者称，武装分子似乎重新控制了提克里特市中心几栋关键的政府大楼。目击者透露，他们看见许多重要建筑上飘扬着ISIS的黑色旗帜。
The day before, Iraqi flags had been hoisted on many of them, as Iraqi troops carried out a ground assault after a three-daylong operation intended to take the city and roll back the insurgents’ advance toward Baghdad.
前一天，当伊拉克军队经过三天的行动，展开地面攻击时，许多大楼还悬挂着伊拉克国旗。这次行动意在夺取这座城市，击退武装分子向巴格达的进军。
Iraqi forces carried out repeated airstrikes, mostly using helicopters, on insurgent targets throughout the city on Sunday for the fourth day in a row, witnesses said.
目击者称，伊拉克军队周日连续第四天对全城的叛军目标反复实施空袭，主要是用直升机。
The Iraqi Army remained in control of roads leading into Tikrit — Saddam Hussein’s birthplace and a longtime stronghold of Sunni hard-liners, about 100 miles north of Baghdad — as well as the campus of Salahuddin University in Tikrit and a military base, Camp Speicher, on the outskirts of the city.
伊拉克军方依然控制着通往提克里特的公路、萨拉赫丁大学(Salahuddin University)在提克里特的校园，以及位于市郊的军事基地斯派克营(Camp Speicher)。提克里特是萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的出生地，位于巴格达以北约100英里（约合160公里）处，长期以来一直是逊尼派强硬势力的大本营。
The military’s advance, supported by tanks and helicopter gunships, was hampered by a large number of bombs planted along the roads, a common tactic of the insurgents.
伊拉克军队在坦克和武装直升机的支援下前进，但受到了沿路埋下的大量炸弹的阻碍，这是叛乱分子常用的手法。
According to a security official in Tikrit, speaking on the condition of anonymity as a matter of government policy, ISIS fighters had kidnapped six relatives of Maj. Gen. Jumaa al-Jabouri, deputy commander of Iraqi military operations in Salahuddin Province, holding them hostage and destroying their homes in the eastern part of the city.
提克里特的一名安全官员称，ISIS的武装分子绑架了伊拉克军方在萨拉赫丁省的副指挥官朱马·贾布里(Jumaa al-Jabouri)的六名亲戚，把他们当做人质，并毁掉了他们在该市东部的家。
What appeared to be a jumbo Russian transport aircraft, from which the SU-25 warplanes were unloaded, was shown Saturday night on Iraqiya, the state television network, at what was believed to be an air base in Taji, a short distance north of Baghdad.
周六夜里，伊拉克官方电视台Iraqiya播出的画面上出现的似乎是一架大型俄罗斯喷气式运输机，SU–25战斗机就是从这架运输机上卸下的。运输机所在的地方据信是塔吉的一处空军基地。塔吉位于巴格达以北不远的地方。
The new aircraft “will increase and support the strength and capability of the Iraqi air forces to eliminate terrorism,” a statement issued by the Iraqi Ministry of Defense said.
伊拉克国防部(Ministry of Defense)发表的一份声明称，新飞机“将增强和支持伊拉克空军消灭恐怖主义的实力和能力”。