SIMFEROPOL, Crimea — After Russia annexed Crimea practically overnight, the Russian bureaucrats handling passports and residence permits inhabited the building of their Ukrainian predecessors, where Roman Nikolayev now waits daily with a seemingly mundane question.
克里米亚辛菲罗波尔——俄罗斯几乎是在一夜之间吞并了克里米亚。之后，处理护照和居留证事务的俄罗斯官僚占据了他们乌克兰前任曾用来办公的大楼。现在，罗曼·尼古拉耶夫(Roman Nikolayev)每天都带着一个看上去似乎颇为无聊的问题在那里等着。
His daughter and granddaughter were newly arrived from Ukraine when they suddenly found themselves in a different country, so he wonders if they can become legal residents. But he cannot get inside to ask because he is No. 4,475 on the waiting list for passports. At most, 200 people are admitted each day from the crowd churning around the tall, rusty iron gate.
他的女儿和外孙女刚从乌克兰来到这里，就发现自己身在他国了，因此他不知道她们能不能变成合法居民。但他没法进去询问，因为在等候申领护照的名单上，他排在了第4475位。喧闹的人群围在那扇高大且锈迹斑斑的铁门周围，他们中每天最多能有200人被准许入内。
“They set up hotlines, but nobody ever answers,” said Mr. Nikolayev, 54, a trim, retired transportation manager with a short salt-and-pepper beard.
“他们设立了热线电话，但从来没人接电话，”54岁的尼古拉耶夫说。瘦削的他留着花白的短胡子，是一名退休的运输管理人员。
“Before we had a pretty well-organized country — life was smooth,” he said, sighing. “Then, within the space of two weeks, one country became another.” He added, “Eto bardak,” using the Russian for bordello and meaning, “This is a mess.”
“以前，我们有一个管理得相当有序的国家——生活平顺，”他叹气道。“然后，在两周的时间里，一个国家变成了另一个国家。”他还说，“Eto bardak”。这是妓院在俄语中的说法，他的意思是“一片混乱”。
One month after the lightning annexation, residents of this Black Sea peninsula find themselves living not so much in a different state, Russia, as in a state of perpetual confusion. Declaring the change, they are finding, was far easier than actually carrying it out.
闪电般的吞并行动结束一个月后，位于黑海沿岸的这个半岛上的居民发现，自己更多的是生活在一个永远都充满混乱的状态之中，而不是另一个国家俄罗斯。他们发现，宣称变化远比实际践行变化容易。
The chaotic transition comes amid evolving tensions in nearby eastern Ukraine, where the possible outcomes include a Crimea-annexation replay.
就在这里上演混乱不断的过渡之时，不远处的乌克兰东部的紧张局势正日渐升级，那里可能的结局包括再次上演一场克里米亚式的吞并。
In Crimea now, few institutions function normally. Most banks are closed. So are land registration offices. Court cases have been postponed indefinitely. Food imports are haphazard. Some foreign companies, like McDonald’s, have shut down.
现在，克里米亚几乎没有什么机构运转正常。大部分银行都关门了。土地登记机构也一样。法院案件被无限期延期。食物进口毫无计划可言。麦当劳(McDonald’s)等部分外国公司也关张大吉。
Other changes are more sinister. “Self-defense units,” with no obvious official mandate, swoop down at train stations and other entry points for sudden inspections. Drug addicts, political activists, gays and even Ukrainian priests — all censured by either the government or the Russian Orthodox Church — are among the most obvious groups fearing life under a far less tolerant government.
其他变化更恶劣。“自卫队”在没有任何明显的官方授权的情况下突然造访火车站和其他一些入口点，进行突击检查。瘾君子、政治激进分子、同性恋乃至乌克兰的神职人员——受到政府或者俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)的谴责——尤其担心自己会生活在一个远远没那么宽容的政府的统治下。
In fact, switching countries has brought disarray to virtually all aspects of life. Crimeans find themselves needing new things every day — driver’s licenses and license plates, insurance and prescriptions, passports and school curriculums. The Russians who have flooded in seeking land deals and other opportunities have been equally frustrated by the logistical and bureaucratic roadblocks.
实际上，国籍发生变化几乎给生活的各个方面都带来了混乱。克里米亚人每天都发现自己需要新东西——驾照和汽车牌照、保险和处方、护照和学校课表。寻求土地交易和其他机会的俄罗斯人蜂拥而至，他们也同样对物流，以及官僚程序方面的种种障碍感到失望。
“The radical reconstruction of everything is required, so these problems are multiplying,” said Vladimir P. Kazarin, 66, a philology professor at Taurida National University. (The university’s name, which derives from Crimean Tatar history, is scheduled to be changed.) “It will take two or three years for all this chaos to be worked out, yet we have to keep on living.”
“需要对一切进行彻底重建，因此这些问题正在成倍增长，”塔夫利国立大学(Taurida National University)（该大学的名字源自克里米亚鞑靼人的历史，按计划将会易名。）66岁的哲学教授弗拉基米尔·P·卡扎林(Vladimir P. Kazarin)说。“要理清所有这些混乱，需要两三年时间，但我们必须活下去。”
On a deeper level, some Crimeans struggle with fundamental questions about their identity, a far more tangled process than merely changing passports.
在更深的层面上，部分克里米亚人正在同有关自己身份的根本性问题作斗争，这是一个远比更换护照复杂得多的过程。
“I cannot say to myself, ‘O.K., now I will stop loving Ukraine and I will love Russia,’ ” said Natalia Ishchenko, another Taurida professor with roots in both countries. “I feel like my heart is broken in two parts. It is really difficult psychologically.”
“我无法对自己说，‘好，现在我要停止热爱乌克兰，要热爱俄罗斯，’”在两国都有亲戚的塔夫利国立大学另一名教授纳塔利娅·伊先科(Natalia Ishchenko)说，“我觉得自己的心分成了两半。在心理上真的很难。”
The Crimean government dismisses any doubts or even complaints.
克里米亚政府驳斥了所有质疑，乃至抱怨。
“Nonsense!” said Yelena Yurchenko, the minister for tourism and resorts and the daughter of a Soviet admiral who retired in Crimea. These “are small issues that can be resolved as they appear,” she said, adding, “It might result in certain tensions for the lazy people who do not want to make progress.”
“胡说八道！”负责旅游业和度假胜地的部长叶连娜·尤尔琴科(Yelena Yurchenko)说。这名部长的父亲是一名在乌克兰退役的苏联时代的海军上将。她说，这些“是一出现就会得到解决的小问题”。她还说，“这可能会给那些不想进步的懒人带来一定的压力。”
Legions of Russian officials have descended on Crimea to teach the local people how to become Russian. In tourism alone, Ms. Yurchenko said, Crimea needed advice about Russian law, marketing, health care and news media.
大批俄罗斯官员降临克里米亚，来教当地人怎样成为俄罗斯人。尤尔琴科表示，单是在旅游领域，克里米亚就需要在俄罗斯法律、营销、医疗和新闻媒体方面的建议。
“Can you imagine how many people need to come to work here for just that one sector?” she said. “We also have transportation, economy, construction, medicine, culture and many other things.”
“你能想象，单这一个领域就需要多少人来工作吗？”她问道。“我们还有交通、经济、建设、医药和文化等各种领域。”
In Dzhankoy, about 55 miles north of this capital city, Edward A. Fyodorov, 37, has been selling ice cream since he was 9 years old. Those sales eventually led to a fleet of 20 refrigerated trucks. He used to import all manner of food from Ukraine, including frozen buns and salad fixings for McDonald’s, plus various goods for Metro supermarkets and 300 smaller grocery stores.
在首府以北55英里（约合90公里）的占科伊，现年37岁的爱德华·A·费奥多罗夫(Edward A. Fyodorov)从9岁开始卖冰淇淋。他的生意最终成长为拥有20辆冷藏货运车的车队。以前，他从乌克兰进各种食品，包括供应麦当劳的面包胚和沙拉配菜，以及为麦德龙超市(Metro)和300家小型生鲜店进的多种食物类货品。
Business is off 90 percent, he said. Five to seven truckloads a day have diminished to about one a week. He has been looking for Russian suppliers, but products cost about 70 percent more and transportation issues are thorny.
他说，现在生意少了90%，从每天五到七辆车的运货量降到了每周一辆。他一直在寻找俄罗斯供应商，但产品成本高了70%左右，而且运输问题也很棘手。
Crimea lacks a land border with Russia, about 350 miles away through Ukraine. The lone ferry crosses to Crimea from an obscure corner of the Caucasus. An expensive bridge promised by the Kremlin is years away.
克里米亚不与俄罗斯在陆上接壤，中间隔着350英里的乌克兰国土。只有一趟船从俄罗斯高加索地区的某个偏僻角落开往克里米亚。克里姆林宫承诺修建一座桥，但造价高昂，遥遥无期。
“It is impossible to make any plans or forecasts,” said Mr. Fyodorov, voicing an almost universal lament.
“不可能做任何计划或预测，”费奥多罗夫说。他表达了一种几乎随处可见的抱怨。
Long lines snake outside the few Russian banks operating. President Vladimir V. Putin announced Thursday that he hoped to have Russian banks functioning normally in Crimea within a month.
仍在营业的少数俄罗斯银行外面蜿蜒排着长队。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周四表示，他希望看到俄罗斯银行一个月内在克里米亚正常运转起来。
The Kremlin, which has announced plans to make Crimea a gambling mecca, set an official deadline of Jan. 1, 2015, for the transition. The initial cost allocated “to all Crimean programs” this year will be $2.85 billion, Mr. Putin said, but given the promises the Kremlin has made for everything from infrastructure to doubling pensions, the eventual annexation bill is expected to climb far beyond that.
克里姆林宫已宣布，计划将克里米亚变成赌博胜地，并将2015年1月1日定为过渡阶段的正式期限。普京称，今年分配给“所有克里米亚项目”的初始经费为28.5亿美元（约合180亿元人民币）。然而，鉴于克里姆林宫做出了从基础设施建设到退休金翻番的种种承诺，吞并克里米亚的最终账单预计将攀升至比这一数字大得多的地步。
Prices are often quoted in both Ukrainian hryvnias and Russian rubles, but the exchange rate fluctuates constantly. Even the simplest transactions like paying taxi fares result in haggling by calculator.
商品往往同时以乌克兰格里夫纳和俄罗斯卢布来报价，但汇率经常波动。就连付出租车费这种最简单的交易，都可能要拿出计算器来争论。
Land sales, despite surging demand from Russians wanting seaside dachas, have stalled because land registration offices are closed.
尽管希望拥有海边别墅的俄罗斯人很多，导致需求激增，但因为土地注册部门大门紧闭，所以土地销售也无法进行。
It is hard to tally the many branches of government not functioning.
很难清点到底有多少政府机构目前没有在正常运转。
Court cases have been frozen because the judges do not know what law to apply. Essential procedures like DNA testing must now be done in Moscow instead of Kiev.
法庭已经冻结了案件的审理，因为法官不知道应该适用什么法律。DNA检测等关键程序现在必须在莫斯科进行，而不是以前的基辅。
One traffic officer confessed he had no idea what law to enforce — he was being sent to school two hours a day to learn Russian traffic laws.
一名交警承认，他不知道要执行什么法规。他被送去了一间学校，每天花两小时学习俄罗斯交通法。
Lawyers, their previous education now irrelevant, plow through Russian legal textbooks wrestling with the unfamiliar terms. “I won’t be able to compete with young lawyers who come from Russia with diplomas in Russian law,” said Olga Cherevkova, 25, who was previously pursing a Ph.D. in Ukrainian health care law.
律师此前接受的教育如今没有了用武之地，于是他们埋头苦读俄罗斯的法律教材，努力研究不熟悉的术语。25岁的奥尔加·切列夫科娃(Olga Cherevkova)此前在攻读乌克兰医疗法方面的博士学位。她说，“我没法跟那些拿着俄罗斯法学文凭的俄罗斯年轻律师竞争。”