MOSCOW — Hailing the Soviet Union for having “brought freedom to other peoples” and taking a swipe at the West over “unacceptable double standards,” President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia presided on Monday over the traditional Victory Day exhibition of military might in Red Square.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统普京本周一在红场主持了传统的胜利日阅兵式，他称颂苏联“给其他国家的人民带来了自由”，抨击西方“采取不可接受的双重标准”。
Among the many weapons on display were warplanes of the type Moscow has deployed in Syria and an updated version of the Buk antiaircraft missile system that, according to Dutch investigators, shot down a passenger aircraft over eastern Ukraine in 2014.
阅兵式上展示了众多武器，其中包括莫斯科已经部署在叙利亚的战机，以及“山毛榉”(Buk)防空导弹系统的升级型号。据荷兰调查人员说，2014年在乌克兰东部击落一架客机的就是“山毛榉”。
The military parade and flyby in Moscow signaled the start of a nationwide series of such events, an annual commemoration of the Soviet Union’s defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945 and of the 26 million Soviet soldiers and citizens who died during World War II, far more than in any other country. Smaller parades were held across the country and at a Russian military base in Syria.
莫斯科的阅兵式标志着全国各地一系列类似活动的开始。这样的活动每年都会举行一次，以纪念苏联在1945年击败纳粹德国，以及二战期间遇难的2600万苏联士兵和民众，这个数字远远超过其他任何国家。俄罗斯全国各地会举行规模较小的游行活动，叙利亚的一个俄罗斯军事基地也不例外。
After the solemn, lock-step formality of events in Red Square, hundreds of thousands of ordinary Russians streamed through Moscow, St. Petersburg and other cities later on Monday holding placards pasted with black-and-white photographs of relatives who fought and, in many cases, died during the war. Known as the “immortal regiment,” the commemoration began in 2012 in the Siberian city of Tomsk as a private initiative but proved so popular that it has since been embraced and, critics say, hijacked by government authorities. Mr. Putin marched at the front of a huge remembrance procession in Moscow, holding a picture of his father, Vladimir, a war veteran who was wounded fighting the Nazis.
方队庄严正步通过红场之后，周一晚些时候，数十万普通俄罗斯人在莫斯科、圣彼得堡等城市游行。他们举着粘贴了黑白照片的标语，照片中是参加过二战的亲人，其中很多已阵亡。这种纪念活动被称为“不朽军团”，最初是根据一个私人倡议，2012年在西伯利亚城市托木斯克首次举行的。但它变得大受欢迎，成为了惯例，批评者说它已经被政府当局利用。普京举着父亲弗拉基米尔的照片，走在莫斯科一个大型纪念队伍的面前。他的父亲是二战老兵，曾在与纳粹的战斗中受伤。
Moscow held its first grand victory parade in 1945, an event presided over by Stalin, and then resumed the ritual in 1965 under the Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev. The tradition halted after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union until President Boris N. Yeltsin revived it in 1995. But the parades have taken on new significance under Mr. Putin, who has used them to showcase Russia’s military revival and renewed national pride after the chaos of the ’90s.
莫斯科在1945年举行了第一次盛大的胜利游行，由斯大林主持，后来的苏联领导人列昂尼德·I·勃列日涅夫(Leonid I. Brezhnev)在1965年恢复了游行活动。1991年苏联崩溃之后，这个传统中断了一段时间，1995年，俄罗斯总统鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)又将它恢复。但是普京上台后，游行具有了新的涵义，普京用它来展示俄罗斯在上世纪90年代的混乱之后的军事复兴，重振民族自豪感。
Victory Day has also become a festival of Soviet nostalgia, with Mr. Putin greeting soldiers on Monday as “comrades,” citizens donning Red Army hats and, in some cases, full uniforms, and state-run television channels showing little but war movies and footage of the parade.
胜利日也成为了缅怀苏联时期的节日，普京本周一用“同志”来称呼士兵，市民们戴上红军帽，有些人还穿上全副军装，官方电视频道上播放的几乎全是战争电影和游行镜头。
“Our soldiers and commanders have proved that they are worthy successors of the Great Patriotic War heroes and that they honorably protect the interests of Russia,” Mr. Putin, using the Russian term for World War II, said in his speech from a Red Square reviewing stand near a granite tomb containing the embalmed corpse of Lenin, the Soviet Union’s founder.
“我们的士兵和指挥官已经证明，他们是卫国战争英雄当之无愧的继承人，他们保护俄罗斯的利益，值得尊敬，”普京说。俄罗斯说的“卫国战争”指的是二战。普京在红场发表讲话的地方，离列宁墓仅不远。这位苏联创始人的尸体经过防腐处理，摆放在花岗岩墓室里。
As has become customary, Mr. Putin made no mention of his country’s principal allies during the war, the United States and Britain. But he allowed that Russia was open to working with other nations to combat what he called the “global threat” of terrorism and to create “a modern, nonaligned system of international security,” a system that Moscow believes has been blocked by the existence of NATO and the expansion of the United States-led military alliance into former Soviet territory in the Baltics.
普京照例没有提到二战中的主要盟友美国和英国。但他表示，俄罗斯愿意与其他国家合作，打击他所说的恐怖主义的“全球性威胁”，创建一个“现代的、不结盟的国际安全体系”。莫斯科认为，北约的存在和扩张阻碍了这一体系的形成。北约是由美国领导的军事同盟，已经扩张到了波罗的海地区的前苏联领土上。
In an apparent swipe at the West, particularly the United States, he said, “Comrades, history lessons teach us that peace on Earth is not established by itself; that one needs to be cautious; that double standards as well as shortsighted indulgence of those who nurture criminal plans are impermissible.” The remark seemed to refer to Washington’s support for rebel groups in Syria that Russia views as terrorist organizations.
普京对西方，特别是对美国进行了明显的抨击，他说，“同志们，历史教训告诉我们，在这个地球上，和平不是自然形成的；大家需要保持警惕；一些人目光短浅，采取双重标准，纵容罪行策划者，这是不可接受的。“这句话似乎是指华盛顿对一些叙利亚反叛武装分子的支持，俄罗斯将这些人视为恐怖组织。
This year’s parade was scaled back from last year’s event, which had marked the 70th anniversary of Russia’s victory, but it still included 10,000 troops — 6,000 fewer than in 2015 — and a flotilla of tanks, armored personnel carriers and missile systems. Among them were Iskander short-range ballistic missiles of the type that Russia has deployed in the western Russian exclave of Kaliningrad, a move that NATO’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said last year would “fundamentally change the balance of security in Europe.”
相比去年的俄罗斯胜利70周年纪念，今年的游行规模较小，但仍然有一万人参加——比2015年少6000人——还展示了坦克、装甲运兵车和导弹系统车队。其中有“伊斯坎德尔”(Iskander)短程弹道导弹，俄罗斯已经将它部署在西部的飞地加里宁格勒，北约秘书长延斯·斯托尔滕贝格(Jens Stoltenberg)去年说，此举将“从根本上改变欧洲安全的平衡”。
Watched by Mr. Putin and by President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan, the procession of military vehicles across the cobblestones of Red Square was led by a Soviet-era T-34 tank, the mainstay of Red Army forces as they beat back Hitler’s army, which invaded in 1941, and then advanced to conquer Berlin in 1945. Behind it rumbled the Armata T-14, a new generation of battle tank first displayed last year, and around 100 other vehicles and weapon systems, including Russia’s latest Yars mobile intercontinental nuclear missile launcher. A battalion of female soldiers took part for the first time.
在普京和哈萨克斯坦总统努尔苏丹·A·纳扎尔巴耶夫(Nursultan A. Nazarbayev)的注视下，军用车辆驶过铺着鹅卵石的红场。首先驶过的是苏联时代的T-34坦克，当年红军部队的主力武器；1941年希特勒军队入侵苏联，红军击退了敌人，并在1945年攻克柏林。接着驶过的是去年首次亮相的新型坦克T-14阿玛塔(T-14 Armata)，另外还有约100架军车和武器系统，其中包括俄罗斯最新的亚尔斯(Yars)机动洲际核导弹发射装置。阅兵式上也首次出现了女兵方队。
Also on display was the S-400 air defense missile system, which Russia has deployed in Syria to protect its base at Latakia, and Buk surface-to-air missiles, an updated version of the system that the Dutch Safety Board, in a report issued in October, said was fired in July 2014 at Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over territory held by Russian-backed separatists. The plane, en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, crashed, killing all 298 passengers and crew members on board.
游行队列中还有S-400防空导弹系统，它是“山毛榉”地对空导弹的升级系统，俄罗斯已经在叙利亚部署了它，以保护其在拉塔基亚的军事基地。荷兰安全委员会(Dutch Safety Board)在去年10月的一份报告中说，2014年7月，在俄罗斯支持的分离主义分子占领的地方，马来西亚航空公司的17航班就是被“山毛榉”击落的。那架坠毁的客机当时正从阿姆斯特丹飞往马来西亚吉隆坡，机上乘客和机组人员共298人全部遇难。
Russia has denied any role in the catastrophe, advancing so-far-unsubstantiated theories that Ukrainian warplanes had been responsible or that the Ukrainians had attacked Flight 17 with their own Buk system.
俄罗斯否认自己在那起灾难中扮演了任何角色，并称应该对此事负责的是乌克兰战机，或者是乌克兰用他们自己的山毛榉系统攻击了马航17，这些说法迄今未获证实。