ISTANBUL — Russia’s ambassador to Turkey was assassinated at an Ankara art exhibit Monday evening by a lone Turkish gunman shouting “God is great!” and “don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria!” in what Russia called a terrorist attack.
伊斯坦布尔——当地时间周一晚，俄罗斯驻土耳其大使在土首都安卡拉出席一场艺术展览时遭枪击身亡。袭击者为土耳其人，事发时曾高喊“真主至大！”以及“别忘了阿勒颇，别忘了叙利亚！”俄方称此事件为恐怖袭击。
The gunman, who was described by Ankara’s mayor as a policeman, also wounded at least three others in the assault, which was captured on Turkish video, before he was killed by other officers in a shootout.
安卡拉市长表示，该枪手为一名警察。现场视频画面显示，另有至少三人在袭击中受伤，袭击者在与警方交火后身亡。
The assassination instantly vaulted relations between Turkey and Russia to a new level of crisis over the protracted Syria conflict on Turkey’s southern doorstep. It came after days of protests by Turks angry over Russia’s support for Syria’s government in the conflict and the Russian role in the killings and destruction in Aleppo, the northern Syrian city.
因与土耳其南端接壤的叙利亚旷日持久的战乱纷争，土俄关系本已十分紧张。此次袭击事件更是将这一紧张关系瞬间推向顶点。事件发生几天前，土耳其民众曾举行示威，抗议俄方支持叙利亚政府军以及对叙北方城市阿勒颇混乱局势所造成的影响。
The envoy, Andrey G. Karlov, was shot from behind and immediately fell to the floor while delivering opening remarks at an exhibition, called “Russia Through Turks’ Eyes,” according to multiple accounts from the scene, the Contemporary Arts Center in the Cankaya area of Ankara.
据现场多方消息，安德烈·卡尔洛夫大使当时正在为一场名为《土耳其人眼中的俄罗斯》的摄影展发表开幕致辞。袭击者突然从背后向其开枪，卡尔洛夫中枪后便立即倒在地上。展览举办地当代艺术中心位于安卡拉市詹卡亚区。
The gunman, wearing a dark suit and tie, was seen in video footage of the assault shouting in Arabic: “God is great! Those who pledged allegiance to Muhammad for jihad. God is great!”
视频录像显示，该枪手身穿深色西服，打着领带，袭击时用阿拉伯语大喊着“真主至大！那些为圣战而忠诚于穆罕默德的人们啊。真主至大！”
Then he switched to Turkish and shouted: “Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria! Step back! Step back! Only death can take me from here.”
随后他用土耳其语喊道：“别忘了阿勒颇，别忘了叙利亚！向后退！向后退！只有死亡能让我离开这里。”
Turkish officials said that the gunman was killed after a shootout with Turkish Special Forces police. The assailant’s identity was not immediately known.
土耳其官员表示，袭击者在与土耳其特种部队交火后被射杀，未能立即确定其身份。
Russia’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, told the Rossiya 24 news channel that Karlov had died of his wounds in what she described as a terrorist attack.
俄罗斯外交部发言人玛丽亚·扎哈诺娃(Maria Zakharova)在接受俄罗斯24新闻频道采访时证实卡尔洛夫因枪伤不治身亡，并称本次刺杀为一起恐怖袭击事件。
The attack was a rare instance of an assassination of any Russian envoy. Historians said it might have been the first since Pyotr Voykov, a Soviet ambassador to Poland, was shot to death in Warsaw in 1927.
这样的遇袭对俄罗斯驻外使节来说是极为罕见的。历史学家称，这可能是1927年苏联驻波兰大使(Pyotr Voykov)于华沙遭枪击身亡以来的首次。