MOSCOW — In a field outside Moscow, workers armed with little more than green fabric and air compressors are creating an imposing weapon.
莫斯科——在莫斯科城外的田野里，工人们正在用绿色布料和空气压缩机这些简陋的设备制造一个壮观的武器。
A sleek, slate-gray MIG-31 fighter jet suddenly appears, its muscular, stubby wings spreading to reveal their trademark red star insignia.
一架造型完美的青灰色米格-31战斗机突然出现在眼前，强大的机翼伸展开来，显露出米格机特有的红星标记。
It is a decoy, lifelike in appearance from as close as 300 yards.
这架飞机是假的，但从不到300米远的地方看上去非常逼真。
This trick is another entry in Russia’s repertoire of deceit and disguise, known as maskirovka, a psychological warfare doctrine that’s becoming an increasingly critical element in the country’s geopolitical ambitions.
这是俄罗斯称之为“军事欺骗”(maskirovka)的全套欺诈和伪装本领中的又一个招数。这个心理战原则正成为该国地缘政治野心中一个越来越重要的成分。
“If you study the major battles of history, you see that trickery wins every time,” Aleksei A. Komarov, the military engineer in charge of this sleight of hand, said with a sly smile. “Nobody ever wins honestly.”
“如果你研究历史上的重大战役的话，你会看到，每次都靠欺诈取胜，”负责提供这些手段的军事工程师阿列克谢·A·科马洛夫(Aleksei A. Komarov)面带狡诈的笑容说。“从来没有人靠诚实取胜。”
Mr. Komarov oversees army sales at Rusbal, or Russian Ball, a hot-air balloon company that also provides the Ministry of Defense with a growing arsenal of inflatable tanks, jets and missile launchers.
科马洛夫在俄罗斯气球公司(Rusbal)负责军售工作，这家热气球公司也在向俄罗斯国防部提供越来越多的充气坦克、充气喷气飞机，以及充气导弹发射器等假军火。
As Russia under President Vladimir V. Putin has muscled its way back onto the geopolitical stage, the Kremlin has employed a range of stealthy tactics: silencing critics abroad, hitching the Orthodox Church to its conservative counterrevolution, spreading false information to audiences in Europe and even, according to the Obama administration, meddling in American presidential politics by hacking the Democratic Party’s computers.
随着俄罗斯在弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统的领导下耀武扬威地重返地缘政治舞台，克里姆林宫也在采用范围广泛的隐形战术，包括禁止国外的评论家发声，让东正教教会走上其保守的反革命道路，向欧洲听众散播假信息，甚至据奥巴马政府说，通过侵入民主党的计算机系统来干扰美国的总统大选。
One of the newer entries to that list is maskirovka.
隐形战术中的最新部分就包括“军事欺骗”。
Russia’s most recent military deployments began with operations involving this doctrine: with literally masked and mystery soldiers in Crimea in 2014, soldiers said to be “vacationing” or “volunteering” in eastern Ukraine and a “humanitarian airlift” to Syria in 2015.
俄罗斯最近的军力部署就是以采用这个原则的行动开始的：比如2014年在克里米亚出动的神秘士兵，是字面意义上的隐蔽士兵，他们号称是在乌克兰东部“度假”或“当义工”，还有2015年向叙利亚派出的“人道主义空中救援行动”。
As the Russian incursion in Ukraine unfolded, Moscow sent a “humanitarian” convoy of whitewashed military vehicles to the rebellious eastern provinces. The trucks were later found to be mostly empty, prompting speculation that they had been sent there to deter a Ukrainian counteroffensive against rebels.
就在俄罗斯展开介入乌克兰的行动时，莫斯科向乌克兰东部省份的叛军派出了一个“人道主义”的货车队。它们其实是经过掩盖的军用车辆，后来被发现大多是空的，这使得人们猜测，它们被派到那里的目的是阻止乌克兰对叛军发动反攻。
The idea behind maskirovka is to keep the enemy guessing, never admitting your true intentions, always denying your activities and using all means, both political and military, to maintain an edge of surprise for your soldiers. The doctrine, military analysts say, is in this sense “multilevel.” It draws no distinction between disguising a soldier as a bush or a tree with green and patterned clothing, a lie of a sort, and high-level political disinformation and cunning evasions.
“军事欺骗”的用意是让敌人不断地猜测，永远不承认我方的真实意图，总是否认我方的行动，并使用所有的政治和军事手段，让我方战士保持出其不意的优势。军事分析家说，从这个意义上说，该战术具有“多个层次”。该战术认为，用绿色布料或迷彩服把士兵伪装成一丛灌木或一棵树的传统欺骗方法，与高层的政治谎言和狡猾回避没有区别。
Thus at a news conference immediately after the invasion of Crimea, Mr. Putin flatly denied that the “green men” appearing on television screens were Russians, saying anyone could buy a military uniform and put it on. It was only five weeks later, after his annexation of the peninsula, that he admitted that the troops were Russian.
因此，在入侵克里米亚之后马上举行的记者会上，普京断然否认电视屏幕上出现的“绿装男子”是俄罗斯人，声称任何人都可以穿上买来的军装。只是在五周之后，俄罗斯吞并了克里米亚半岛时，普京才承认了那是俄罗斯部队。
And last month, the Ministry of Defense denied Washington’s assertion that Russian warplanes had attacked a humanitarian convoy in Syria. It said first that the trucks could have been hit by a rebel mortar, then that an American Predator drone was responsible and finally that the cargo had simply caught fire.
上个月，俄罗斯国防部否认了华盛顿的说法，美国说俄罗斯战机袭击了一个在叙利亚从事人道主义的车队。俄国最初称，车队可能是被叛军的迫击炮击中的，后来说美国的捕食者无人机对该事件负有责任，最后又说货车自行起火。
Maskirovka goes well beyond the simple camouflage used by all armies and encompasses a range of ideas about misdirection and misinformation, as useful today as it has been for decades. Soviet maps, for example, often included inaccuracies that frustrated drivers but served a national security purpose: If taken by a spy, they would confuse an invading army as apparently useful roads, for example, led into swamps.
“军事欺骗”远远不只是所有军队都用的简单伪装，它还包括涉及误导误传的各种思路，这种战术如今的用途与几十年前的一样。例如，苏联时代的地图经常有不准确的信息，令司机们头痛，但有益于国家安全：如果间谍获得了地图，入侵的军队会被错误的信息搞糊涂，比如地图上看到的道路实际上会把军队带入沼泽地。
In fact, nearly every Russian and Soviet deployment over the past half century, from the Prague Spring to Afghanistan, Chechnya and Ukraine, opened with a simple but effective trick: soldiers appearing first in mufti or unmarked uniforms. In 1968, for example, an Aeroflot flight arrived in Prague carrying a disproportionate number of healthy young men, who subsequently seized the airport.
事实上，在过去的半个世纪里，从布拉格之春到阿富汗，从车臣和乌克兰，俄罗斯和苏联的几乎每次军事行动，都是以一个简单但有效的招数开始的：士兵先是穿着无标记的制服出现。例如1968年，一架苏联航空公司的飞机在布拉格降落，机上乘客中健壮年轻人的比例格外地高，这些人后来占领了机场。
Soldiers disguised as tourists sailed to Syria in 1983 in what became known as the “comrade tourist” ruse. The appearance of mysterious, camouflaged soldiers in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Grozny, Chechnya, presaged wider deployments in 1979 and 1994.
1983年，伪装成游客的士兵乘船来到叙利亚，那是一个后来被称为“同志旅游”的诡计。伪装的神秘士兵在阿富汗喀布尔和车臣格罗兹尼的出现，分别是1979年和1994年更大规模的军队部署的先兆。
Experts fear that the next theater for such tactics may be the Baltic region, home to significant minorities of ethnic Russians as well as a major Russian military base at Kaliningrad.
专家们担心，这种战术的下一个战场可能是波罗的海地区，该地区的居民中比较大的少数民族是俄罗斯人，而且俄罗斯在加里宁格勒也有一个主要的军事基地。
The array of possibilities for Russia in the Baltics is vast. Analysts have speculated, for example, that an aging Russian military ship might feign a mechanical breakdown and beach on a Baltic sandbar. Soon, marines would deploy to “protect” it.
俄罗斯有很多在波罗的海采取可能行动的手法。比如，分析人士猜测，一艘老化的俄罗斯军舰可能会假装发生了机械故障，在波罗的海的一个沙洲上搁浅。很快，海军陆战队会被派到那里去“保护”军舰。
That incursion might not be enough to elicit a full-scale response from NATO, but if left to stand, it could undermine the alliance’s credibility, analysts say.
分析人士说，这种入侵可能不足以引起北约组织(NATO)的全面反应，但若放任不管，就可能会破坏北约的可信度。
“The fun part about the Baltics, from the Russian perspective, is that NATO’s credibility rests on every useless piece of land, so you don’t have to take more than a tiny slice,” said Michael Kofman, a military analyst at the Kennan Institute in Washington.
“从俄罗斯的角度来看，波罗的海有意思的地方在于，每一块无用的土地都是对北约可信度的检验，所以不需占领多大一片就行，”华盛顿凯南研究所(Kennan Institute)的军事分析师迈克尔·科夫曼(Michael Kofman)说。
Col. David M. Glantz, a leading expert on Russian disguise operations, said Russia viewed war “in many, many facets.”
俄罗斯伪装行动方面的权威专家戴维·M·格兰斯(David M. Glantz)上校表示，俄罗斯看待战争的“方式是非常非常多面的”。
To be sure, other militaries use decoys. The Russian doctrine of maskirovka, though, differs from deception operations by other major militaries in its blending of strategic and tactical deception, and in its use in both war and peace.
其他国家的军队当然也会使用伪装。但俄罗斯的军事欺骗原则与其他主要军队的不同在于，它对战略和战术伪装的融合，以及在战争与和平时期的应用。
In one storied example, the Soviets decided to call their space launchpad Baikonur, after a small Kazakh settlement of that name a few hundred miles away, hoping that in an attack, enemy bombers might hit the insignificant village by mistake.
一个知名的例子是，苏联将他们的空间发射平台命名为拜科努尔(Baikonur)，那是几百英里以外一个小哈萨克定居点的名字，目的是希望在袭击中，敌人的轰炸机会错将这个微不足道的村庄当作目标进行轰炸。
“They look at war as chess, and we look at it as checkers,” said Colonel Glantz, a former professor at the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
“他们把战争看作象棋，我们把它看作跳棋，”格兰斯上校说。他曾在位于堪萨斯州莱文沃思堡的美国陆军指挥与参谋学院(Command and General Staff College)任教授。
A well-constructed Russian maskirovka ruse, like a good Russian play, typically builds an underlying narrative before introducing the plot twist.
就如同一出优秀的俄罗斯剧目，一个精心策划的俄罗斯军事欺骗诡计在出现情节转折之前，通常会先建立底层叙事。
Maskirovka is “designed to manipulate the adversary’s picture of reality, misinform it and eventually interfere with the decision-making process of individuals, organizations, governments and societies,” Dima Adamsky, an authority on Russian psychological warfare, wrote in a paper published last year. The opening moves, if played well, will “appear benign to the target.”
军事欺骗的“目的是操纵敌人对现实的认知，提供错误的信息，最终干扰个人、组织、政府和社群的决策过程，”俄罗斯心理战方面的专家迪马·亚当斯基(Dima Adamsky)在去年发表的一篇论文中写道。如果进行的好，最初的几步棋“目标不会觉得有什么危险”。
A hot-air balloon enthusiast founded Rusbal in 1993 and later diversified into the inflatable children’s attractions that are springy play areas known as bouncy castles.
一名热气球爱好者于1993年创办了俄斯波(Rusbal)，后来将业务扩展至充气儿童娱乐设施，就是被称为弹跳城堡的有弹力的游乐场。
In fact, bouncy castle construction inspired the company — and the Russian military — to re-examine a decade-old Russian practice of using bulky rubber balloons for inflatables, leading to a technological advance in decoys around the turn of the millennium.
实际上，弹跳城堡的设施启发了这家公司——也启发了俄罗斯军方。他们重新审视了俄罗斯延续十年的用笨重橡胶气球制作充气物的做法，在世纪之交带来了一次伪装技术的进步。
Although it forms a tight seal that does not require constant inflation, rubber is far heavier than fabric. In a bouncy castle, a continuously running air compressor creates overpressure in a fabric structure that is not airtight. The rubber tanks deflated, or even popped, if hit by a single bullet. But the fabric holds its form even if perforated by a spray of shrapnel.
尽管封口严密，不需要持续充气，但橡胶比织物要重得多。在弹跳城堡里，一台持续运转的空气压缩机在一个并非密封的织物构造里制造超压。橡皮坦克哪怕只被一颗子弹击中也会泄气乃至爆裂。但织物即便被一连串飞溅的弹片刺穿，也会保持原来的形状。
“There was a lot of skepticism at first,” Maria A. Oparina, the director of Rusbal and daughter of the founder, said in an interview in a cafe in Moscow. Demonstrations, though, impressed the generals.
“一开始有很多疑虑，”俄斯波创始人的女儿兼公司董事玛丽亚·A·奥帕里娜(Maria A. Oparina)在莫斯科一家咖啡馆接受采访时说。不过，产品展示让将领们颇为满意。
The company would not disclose how many inflatable tanks it made, because the numbers are classified, but Ms. Oparina said output had shot up over the past year. The contract forms one small part of Russia’s 10-year, $660 billion rearmament program that began in 2010. The factory now employs 80 people full time, most on the military side sewing inflatable weapons.
由于涉及机密，这家公司不愿意透露它生产了多少充气坦克。但奥帕里娜表示，在过去一年里，产量直线上升。在俄罗斯于2010年开启的为期十年、价值6600亿美元的重整军备项目中，这个合同只是一小部分。这个工厂现有80名全职员工，大多在为军方缝制充气武器。
“There are no gentlemen’s agreements in war,” Ms. Oparina said. “There’s no chivalry anymore. Nobody wears a red uniform. Nobody stands up to get shot at. It’s either you or me, and whoever has the best trick wins.”
“战争中不存在君子协定，”奥帕里娜说。“已经不再有骑士精神了。没人会穿红色的军装。没人会站出来挨枪子。不是你死，就是我活，谁的计策好谁赢。”