SEGEZHA, Russia — Ten years have gone by, 10 years — to the day — that I have spent in the jails, prisons and camps of the new Russia.
俄罗斯谢格扎——10年了，我在新俄罗斯的看守所、监狱及营地里待了10年——直到今天。
Much has changed. My oldest son now has his own baby daughter, who is not a baby any more — my first grandchild, whom I have never seen.
很多事情发生了变化。我的大儿子现在有了自己的宝贝女儿，她已经不再是一个婴儿了，但我从未见过我的第一个孙女。
My youngest sons, whom I left as little four-year-old boys, are now taller than I am and on the threshold of adulthood. My daughter is close to graduating from college. My wife, who has been supporting me all these years, is alone at home now. My parents are already very old, and their health leaves much to be desired.
我离开的时候，年龄最小的双胞胎儿子只有4岁，而现在他们已经比我高了，正站在成年的门槛上。我女儿就要从大学毕业了。我妻子这些年来一直支持我，她现在独自一人在家。我的父母年事已高，身体状况不理想。
The whole world has changed a great deal as well. I can only read in magazines about e-book readers and tablet computers. The same goes for Facebook, Google, Twitter and many other things that are now commonplace, like hybrid engines and electric cars.
世界也发生了巨大变化。我只能在杂志上读到有关电子书阅读器和平板电脑的事情。Facebook、谷歌(Google)、Twitter以及混合动力发动机、电动汽车等很多已经相当常见的事物，我也是在杂志上读到的。
My family tells me that I also would not recognize Moscow: Many new buildings have gone up, and people look different, less Soviet.
我的家人告诉我，我将认不出莫斯科了：有很多新建的建筑，人看起来也不同了，不那么像苏联时代的人了。
Against the background of these changes, my world is practically standing still: There is little difference between the camp barracks on the Chinese border where I spent the first part of my term and my current barracks on the Finnish border. The people are also pretty much the same: Each has his own thoughts and his own unhappy fate.
在发生这些变化的同时，我身处的世界几乎没有改变：刑期开始时，我待在中国边境的营地，现在则待在芬兰边境的营地，这两个地方没什么不同。人也几乎一样：大家都有自己的心思和各自不幸的命运。
But despite all the years that have passed, I have never become a part of this closed system, and I continue to live by the events taking place in Russia and the world. They reach me by way of newspapers and endless letters and the stories told by the people who are constantly coming in “from the outside.”
但尽管过了这么多年，我也没有成为这个封闭系统的一部分，我仍然关心着俄罗斯及世界各地发生的事件。我通过报纸、不计其数的信件以及“从外面”源源不断进来的人所讲述的故事了解时事。
I have watched as my country has prospered from rising oil and gas prices. People’s incomes have increased significantly as well.
我看着我们的国家因为石油和天然气价格上涨而变得富有。人们的收入也显著增加。
But the prices of goods and housing have also soared. Life in many Russian cities is now more expensive than in the United States or Europe.
但物价和房价也在飙升。很多俄罗斯城市的生活费用要高于美国或欧洲的城市。
The reasons are well known: state monopolism, corruption and inefficient administration, a consequence of the implacability of power and its excessive centralization in the hands of a single executive.
原因是众所周知的：国家垄断，腐败而效率低下的政府，这一切都是——权力的无情及其过度集中在一名执行者手中的后果。
Many talented people are leaving the country; more than 2 million Russians have gone in just 10 years. The capital flight that started in 2008 stands at $350 billion and counting. Three million entrepreneurs have been subjected to criminal prosecution, and some of them, like Sergei L. Magnitsky and Vasily G. Aleksanyan, have died as a result of being in prison.
很多优秀人士离开了俄罗斯，在短短10年时间里有200多万俄罗斯人移民海外。从2008年开始的资金外流，现在达到了3500亿美元（约合2.13万亿元人民币），而且还在不断增加。300万名企业家遭到刑事起诉，其中一些人在狱中死亡，比如谢尔盖·L·马格尼茨基(Sergei L. Magnitsky)和瓦西里·G·阿列克萨尼扬(Vasily G. Aleksanyan)。
This is the reason why there is so little innovation in Russia, and why dependence on raw materials prices is rising while the overall growth rate is slowing. The quality of education is decreasing, while industry is falling technologically further behind the West, and now even China.
这就是为什么俄罗斯的创新如此稀少，为什么对原材料价格的依赖不断加剧，而整体增长率不断放缓。教育质量下降，工业技术与西方国家的差距拉大，现在甚至落在中国后面。
Russia’s place in the world has likewise changed. Our country, having become richer as a result of the raw materials boom, has begun playing a more active role in the global arena: recall its recent diplomatic successes in the Middle East and the multitude of recent and upcoming global political forums, economic meetings and sporting events held here.
俄罗斯在世界上的地位也发生了变化。借助原材料市场繁荣而变得更富裕的我国，开始在国际舞台上扮演更为积极的角色：想一想俄罗斯近期在中东取得的外交成功，以及很多近期和即将在俄罗斯举办的全球政治论坛、经济会议和体育赛事。
Unfortunately, the prestige that comes with such success has been erased by events like the imprisonment of the women from the band Pussy Riot, the recent, inappropriate arrest of Greenpeace ecologists and the ban on adoptions by Americans.
不幸的是，上述成功带来的声望因为一些事件而消失殆尽，比如对女子乐队Pussy Riot的成员的关押，近期对绿色和平(Greenpeace)生态人士的不当逮捕，以及发布针对美国人的领养禁令。
The reason for each of these events is the same: An irremovable and out-of-control central power is losing the ability to adapt to an ever-more-changing world. It is incapable of offering an attractive vision for the future, a paradigm that might inspire people to follow it. This is why all the money, all the global-outreach efforts, all the technical achievements have no effect. A frozen and stiff society offers no hope for the young.
造成上述事件的原因都是一样的：无法动摇且失控的中央权力正在丧失适应不断变化的世界的能力。它不能提供一个充满吸引力的未来愿景，一个或许能激发人们追求的范式。这是为什么所有资金，所有全球交流努力，以及所有技术成就都打水漂的原因。一个刻板、僵化的社会无法给年轻人带来希望。
This is nothing new. Fearfully withdrawing into one’s shell is the usual reaction of people who lack sufficient ability to adapt (or who are afraid to display such ability). The interests, and even the fears, of such sufferers certainly have to be taken into account, but following them can only lead into the abyss.
这不是什么新鲜事。胆怯地缩回壳里是那些缺乏充分适应能力的人（或害怕显露这种能力的人）的通常反应。这些可怜的人们的利益甚至担忧必须得到考虑，但据此作出决策只会走向深渊。
Today the system for running the country is called “Vladimir V. Putin.” Can he change? I don’t want to give a categorical answer: A human being is too complicated a creature for that. But the chances are slim, as are the chances that Mr. Putin’s inner circle would allow him to cede his presidential powers, even temporarily, a second time. He will not control what follows him.
如今，治理国家的体制名叫“弗拉基米尔·V·普京”(Vladimir V. Putin)。他能改变吗？我不想给出一个明确的答案：人太复杂了，不可能得出那样的答案。但可以有把握地说，可能性非常小，就像普京身边的小圈子会允许他第二次交出总统权力（哪怕只是暂时放下权力）的可能性一样小。普京将无法控制他下台后的局面。
Inside the country, the number of supporters for a democratic transformation of power beyond the Putin regime is decreasing, while radical moods are slowly but surely increasing — something that will inevitably give rise to just as radical a leader in a crisis. Put differently, no matter what Mr. Putin does, Russia runs the risk of seeing another authoritarian regime follow his.
在俄罗斯，支持在普京政权之后实现民主的权力过渡的人在减少，但激进情绪在缓慢而不可阻挡地得势——在危机期间，这难免会催生又一个激进的领导人。换句话说，无论普京做什么，俄罗斯都面临一个风险，即在普京最终下台后出现另一个威权政权。
When a regime that has unknowingly entered a stage of irreversible degeneration, and is highly reluctant to give its opponents the space for real political competition, the only hope for change lies in the success of a broad-based, peaceful protest movement.
当一个政权不知不觉进入不可逆转的退化阶段，并且极不愿意给对手留下开展真正政治竞争的空间时，变革的唯一希望在于一个具有广泛代表性的和平抗议运动取得成功。
Such a movement does exist in Russia, and its goal is to force the rational part of the ruling elite to negotiate over the direction and speed of necessary reforms. Not just to listen condescendingly, but to actually negotiate and undertake the agreed-upon actions.
这种抗议运动在俄罗斯确实存在，其目标是迫使执政精英中的理性成员就必要的改革的方向及速度展开谈判。不仅是高高在上地倾听，还要真正进行谈判，并采取商定的行动。
Unfortunately, there is never such a thing as peaceful protest without victims. Today there are many, many political activists and sympathizers in jail or on their way. This includes not just the 27 activists arrested during a recent, enormous protest in Moscow’s Bolotnaya Square, but dozens of other lower-profile cases as well. And there will probably be many more of these if the regime continues to respond with force to the voices of independent opponents.
不幸的是，从来就不存在没有受害者的和平抗议。如今，许许多多的政治活动人士和支持者已经或即将身陷囹圄。这当中不仅包括近期在莫斯科博洛特纳亚广场的大规模抗议中被捕的27名活动人士，还包括其他数十起不知名案件中被捕的人。如果现政权继续强势回应独立反对人士的呼声，很可能会有更多人被抓。
But the opposition will achieve victory if it can turn each case around and put the regime on trial. Society, especially the youth, is keenly aware of the difference between words and deeds. And unlike violent protest, peaceful protest cannot backfire and push frightened ordinary citizens and moderate political forces into the arms of the regime.
但是，如果反对派能够在每一起案子中争取主动，让现政权接受审判，他们就将取得胜利。社会，尤其是年轻人，非常清楚言语和行动的差别。与暴力抗议不同，和平抗议不会带来事与愿违的结果，把担惊受怕的普通民众和温和派政治力量推向现政权的怀抱。
What should the opposition do if it achieves its goals? Above all it must remember that, once victory is achieved, it is very important not only to overcome the desire to seek revenge against yesterday’s persecutors, but also to give them an opportunity to participate in determining the country’s course.
倘若达成了目标，反对派又该怎么做？最重要的是，它必须铭记，一旦取得胜利，他们不仅要克制向过去的迫害者报复的欲望，还要给后者一个参与国家道路决策的机会——这一点非常重要。
Second, it must recognize the need to compromise in the struggle for change. Historical experience teaches us that society has been able to get itself out of a tailspin with minimal losses only in those places where reformers found the strength and courage to reach a consensus with their opponents. The opposition must be influential! Without this there can be no democracy!
其次，它必须意识到，在寻求改变的斗争中需要做出让步。历史经验告诉我们，只有在改革者找到力量和勇气与自己的对手达成共识的地方，社会才能以较小的损失摆脱下滑。反对派必须具有影响力！否则民主无从谈起！
The movement must take inspiration from Nelson Mandela of South Africa, who was able to rise above personal grievances and racial and class prejudices to lead his society along a difficult road from civil war to social peace. Mr. Mandela’s genius lies in the fact that when he came out of jail, instead of shutting the door in the face of his jailers, he left it open, so they could come out together with him.
这场运动必须从南非纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的经历获得启发。曼德拉超越个人怨恨，克服种族和阶级偏见，带领他的社会走上一条由内战通往社会和平的艰难道路。曼德拉的不同寻常之处在于，当他出狱的时候，他并没有对关押自己的人关上大门，而是敞着门，让对方和他一同出去。
Vengeance cannot be recognized as a worthy and socially significant objective. Only the achievement of a national consensus will give Russia a chance at survival. But this consensus has to be achieved on a foundation of respect for the rights of each person and of each minority in that society. It is imperative to acknowledge the principles of a law-based state and an aspiration for social justice.
复仇不能被看做一个有价值和重大社会意义的目标。只有全国达成共识，才能给俄罗斯一个生存下去的机会。但是，这种共识必须建立在尊重每个人以及社会内部每个少数群体的权利之上。必须认可法制国家的原则和实现社会公平的抱负。
Russia has things it can offer the world. We are not Asia, and not even Eurasia, but an inseparable part of Europe. The same Europe that not only created today’s civilization, but also continues to be the world’s leading political laboratory for testing new social and ethical approaches, which are then adapted and implemented around the world.
俄罗斯有能力为世界做出贡献。我们不是亚洲，甚至也不属于欧亚大陆，而是欧洲不可分割的一部分。这个欧洲不仅创造了今天的文明，而且仍然是世界领先的政治实验室，试行各种新的社会和道德政策，这些政策随后往往被世界各地借鉴或实施。
But Europe faces a multipronged crisis: Its rate of scientific and technical progress is insufficient to ensure economic support for the higher-than-anticipated increase in the cost of the social welfare state, while European society has overestimated its ability to integrate diverse populations. And the idea of a postindustrial economy has been interpreted to mean the rejection of all industry, and not the creation of new types of industry.
然而，欧洲面临着一场多层面的危机：它在科技方面的进步速度，已不足以为社会福利国家高于预期的成本增长提供经济支持，同时欧洲社会高估了自己融合多元化人口的能力。此外，有些人将后工业化经济解读为排斥所有工业，而不是去创建新型产业。
This crisis has adversely affected the course of the European integration process, which itself represents a huge sociocultural experiment.
这场危机对欧洲的一体化进程造成了负面影响，而欧洲一体化本身代表着一次巨大的社会文化实验。
But a crisis — even a multifaceted one like this — by no means signifies a collapse. Today’s European crisis is a challenge, but also a powerful impetus for change. The contours of such changes can already be seen, though a long and complex road lies ahead.
但是，危机——即便是像这样的一场多层面危机——绝不意味着社会即将崩溃。欧洲目前的危机既是一个挑战，也是推动改革的强大动力。此类改革的大致轮廓已经显现，尽管前面的道路仍然漫长而复杂。
Thanks to a cultural and historical affinity and territorial proximity, Russia is capable of being a part of this solution, by lending its experience at handling a gigantic territory and diverse economic and cultural patterns. Russia and Europe need to find ways to work together, much more closely than ever before.
由于文化和历史上的渊源以及地理上的靠近，俄罗斯能够成为这一解决方案的一部分，贡献其在管理广阔疆域、协调多元化经济和文化格局方面的经验。俄罗斯和欧洲需要找到合作方式，这种合作应该比以往任何时候都更加密切。
Yes, such a change would require a serious new effort from the Euro-Atlantic civilization. First in terms of personnel, and second in terms of technology and innovation. We would be talking about hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and specialists, about a gigantic splash of energy from a new generation of Europeans onto huge, and thus far poorly developed, expanses, about joint work, about a new Europe — from the Atlantic all the way to the Pacific.
没错，这样的改变将需要欧洲-大西洋文明付出认真的新努力。首先是在人员方面，其次是在科技和创新方面。我们谈论的是数十万名企业家和专家，是新一代欧洲人的巨大能量（他们将在广袤但迄今欠发达的地区挥洒力量），是合作，是一个新欧洲——从大西洋一直延伸到太平洋地区。
For our people — the Russian people — this would become a real opportunity to overcome a situation that has existed since the 17th century, and to bridge the gap that has formed between the limited number of Russians who have a notion of modern Europe and live by its standards, and the rest of the country’s population, the many millions whose dream of a better life has been unscrupulously exploited for centuries by politicians who continue to preach a nonexistent “special way” for Russia that only leads people deeper into misery.
对于我们的人民——俄罗斯人民而言，这将是一个真正的契机，让我们突破自17世纪以来一直存在的状况，弥合少数俄罗斯人和其他俄罗斯人之间的鸿沟——前者具有现代欧洲的意识，并且愿意秉持其标准，而后者（数以百万计的其他俄罗斯人）梦想过上更美好生活，但几百年来一直被没有道德底线的政治人士利用——这些政治人士继续宣扬一条不存在的俄罗斯“特殊道路”，最终只是让人民陷入更深的苦难。
Today, against the background of ongoing migrations into Europe and ongoing change in Asia, the split between Europe and Russia is a gap that can lead to extremely unfavorable consequences. The disastrous project of stagnation needs an ambitious European alternative.
如今，在移民纷纷进入欧洲，亚洲也在不断变化的大背景下，欧洲和俄罗斯之间的割裂很有可能产生一些极端不利的后果。这种原地踏步的灾难性格局呼唤着一条以欧洲为主线的雄心勃勃的替代道路。
Change or be destroyed: This has been the historical choice for any human civilization for thousands of years.
要么改变，要么被摧毁：这是古往今来任何人类文明都会面对的历史性抉择。