WASHINGTON — Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday that Moscow had proposed talks between the United States and Russian militaries on the situation in Syria and the buildup of Russian forces there.
华盛顿——国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在周三表示，莫斯科方面提议，美国和俄罗斯军方就叙利亚局势，以及俄罗斯军队在叙利亚集结的问题开展会谈。
Sergey V. Lavrov, Russia’s foreign minister, made the proposal, which Mr. Kerry indicated the administration was considering, in a phone conversation with him on Tuesday.
周二，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在与克里通电话时提出了上述建议，克里表明美国政府正在考虑。
Mr. Kerry said Mr. Lavrov proposed a “military-to-military” meeting to minimize the risk of confrontation in an arena in which Russian and American forces may both operate, and perhaps agree on a path forward.
克里表示，拉夫罗夫提议开展“军方对军方”的会谈，以尽量减少在叙利亚出现对抗的风险，或许还能就前方路径达成共识。俄罗斯和美国军队都有可能在叙利亚开展行动。
“You have a conversation in order to do that,” Mr. Kerry added. “It is vital to avoid misunderstandings.”
“为了做到这一点，需要开展会谈，”克里还表示。“避免出现误解非常重要。”
While the United States continues to raise concerns about the Russian military buildup at an airfield south of Latakia, Mr. Kerry’s comments suggest the Obama administration is not confident it can persuade the Russians to halt the deployment — or impede it by persuading Syria’s neighbors to close their airspace to Russian military transport flights. The administration is focusing instead on reducing the risk of an inadvertent confrontation with the American-led coalition that is bombing the Islamic State in Syria.
虽然美国仍对俄罗斯在拉塔基亚南部一座机场加强军力的举动感到担忧，但克里的评论说明，奥巴马政府并不确信自己能说服俄罗斯停止部署军队——或者说服叙利亚的邻国对俄罗斯军方的运输机关闭领空，从而阻止俄罗斯部署军队。奥巴马政府转而强调，要减少俄罗斯与美国牵头的联盟之间发生意外冲突的风险，该联盟正在叙利亚轰炸伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。
The Tuesday phone conversation was third time this month that Mr. Kerry has spoken to Mr. Lavrov on Syria.
周二的电话沟通是克里与拉夫罗夫本月就叙利亚问题开展的第三次对话。
On Sept. 5, the United States asked a number of nations to close their airspace to Russian military transport flights.
9月5日，美国要求一些国家对俄罗斯军用运输机关闭领空。
But Iraq took no action in response to the American concerns. Russia has now deployed a small number of tanks, as well as artillery and armored personnel carriers at an airfield south of Lakatia. Moscow is also erecting housing that can accommodate 1,500 people. American officials are concerned that Russia will eventually base attack planes there.
但伊拉克并没有为回应美国的担忧，而采取什么行动。俄罗斯目前在拉塔基亚南部的一座飞机场部署了少量坦克、火炮和装甲运兵车。俄罗斯也正在建造能够容纳1500人的房屋。美国官员担心，俄罗斯最终会在那里部署攻击机。
Russia and the United States appear to remain far apart on what diplomatic action should be taken to stop the civil war in Syria. And Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, told reporters that they do not agree on the root cause for the rise of the Islamic State.
在应该采取何种外交行动来终止叙利亚内战的问题上，俄罗斯和美国似乎仍然存在很大分歧。 美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)告诉记者，双方在伊斯兰国崛起的根本原因问题上存在分歧。
“We need to get past this fundamental disagreement about what the cause of terrorism is and how to combat it,” she told reporters.
她告诉记者，“我们需要抛开有关恐怖主义的成因及如何对抗恐怖主义的根本性分歧。”