MOSCOW — The day Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down in eastern Ukraine, I was in Moscow, having dinner with a small group of friends. Three of those present were living in Moscow and the other three, including me, were former Muscovites visiting from the United States. Perhaps because most of the people at the table were linguists, discussion of the airplane soon turned to a conversation about words.
莫斯科——马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班在乌克兰东部被击落的那一天，我在莫斯科和一小群朋友吃饭。当时在场的人里，有三个生活在莫斯科，包括我在内的其他三个人都是从美国回国探访的前莫斯科人。兴许因为桌上的大部分人都是语言学家，有关飞机的讨论很快就变成了一场关于词语的对话。
“Why do we have to say ‘our country”’ asked one of the linguists. “Why can’t we say ‘this country,’ like Americans do?”
“我们为什么必须说‘我们国家’呢，”一位语言学家问道，“为什么不能像美国人那样，说‘这个国家’？”
It’s a language thing: When speaking of Russia, Russians indicate possession the way English-speakers do with most other nouns — “my hand,” “my drink” — but not, as it happens, with countries. In the last dozen years some Russians have adopted the Anglo habit of saying “this country,” but rather than sound neutral, the expression serves to underscore the distance the speaker is putting between himself and Russia.
这个问题和语言有关：说到俄罗斯时，俄罗斯人会使用表示领属的形式。讲英语的人在说到其他大部分名词时会用到这种形式，如“我的手”(my hand)、“我的饮料”(my drink)，但在讲到国家时却不会这么说。在过去十多年里，一些俄罗斯人借鉴了讲英语的人说“这个国家”(this country)的习惯，但这种表述听上去并不中立，而是强调了说话人在自己和俄罗斯之间拉开的距离。
What’s even worse, another of the linguists pointed out, is that the habitual Russian construction also makes it difficult to get around such expressions as “We invaded Ukraine” or “We are at war.”
另一位语言学家指出，更糟糕的是，习惯性的俄语结构也让人很难避开“我们侵略了乌克兰”、“我们处于战争状态”这样的表达。
“But I did not invade Ukraine!” he protested. “And I did not shoot down that plane!”
“但我没有侵略乌克兰，”他抱怨道，“我也没有击落那架飞机。”
The following day, work took me to St. Petersburg. Perhaps because the full realization of the scope of the MH17 tragedy sank in while I was on the overnight train, I decided to go to the Dutch Consulate to lay down flowers.
第二天，我因为工作去了圣彼得堡。或许是因为在通宵火车上完全想明白了MH17航班发生的悲剧有多么严重，我决定去荷兰领事馆献花。
Much to my surprise, there were already hundreds of flowers there — and many more would accumulate by the end of the day. Someone had placed a handwritten note: “Forgive us.” Several identically worded messages had been deposited at the Dutch Embassy in Moscow.
令我倍感惊讶的是，那里已经有数百束花了——那一天结束时，还会汇聚更多的鲜花。有人放了一张手写的字条，上面写着：“原谅我们。”之前，莫斯科的荷兰大使馆门前，也摆放了几张措辞一模一样的字条。
This was just the opposite of the linguistic statement we had been discussing the day before: Here were people deliberately claiming the right to represent their country, though their views were clearly different from those of the majority and the government. This, too, is a Russian rhetorical tradition: It dates back to the 19th-century intelligentsia, who used the slogan “For our freedom and yours” to protest the Russian Empire’s war on Poland, which was later picked up by Soviet dissidents opposing the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia.
这和我们前一天还在讨论的语言表达恰恰相反：这些人有意表明自己有权代表国家，尽管他们的观点显然不同于大部分人的观点，也不同于政府的观点。这也是俄语的一种修辞传统，可以追溯到19世纪的知识分子。当时，他们用“为了我们和你们的自由”这个口号，抗议俄罗斯帝国在波兰发动的战争。后来，苏联异见人士反对苏联入侵捷克斯洛伐克时，又重拾了这一传统。
When dissidents claim the right to speak as citizens of their country, the backlash is usually immediate and painful. The week after the downing of MH17, the Russian opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta published a cover that said, in Dutch, “Vergeef ons, Nederland” (Forgive us, the Netherlands) and received so many contradictory online comments that the editors published a compilation as a separate item on the website.
异见人士自称有权作为自己国家的公民发言时，通常会立即招致令人痛苦的反击。MH17航班被击落后的那一周，俄罗斯反对派报纸《新报》(Novaya Gazeta)在头版用荷兰语写道，“原谅我们，荷兰”(Vergeef ons, Nederland)。这在网上收到了许多意见不一的评论，以至于该报编辑将评论汇集到了一起，单独发布了网站上。
Many Dutch citizens thanked the paper for its stance. But most Russian-language readers commenting on the cover were furious. “What basis do you have to ask Holland for forgiveness, which suggests that the Russian Federation is responsible for the crash?” was one typical reaction. “You are libeling the Russian Federation and claiming to speak for everybody!”
许多荷兰公民感谢了这家报纸的立场，但大部分评论该报封面的俄语读者很愤怒。“请求荷兰原谅，是在暗示俄罗斯联邦应该对飞机坠毁事件负责。你这么做有什么依据？”这是一个典型的反应。“你这是在诽谤俄罗斯联邦，声称可以代表所有人发言！”
I was surprised that some of the backlash came from Russians now living in the Netherlands; they seemed particularly upset at the idea that responsibility for the disaster could be shared by all Russians. “Who asked you?” wrote one such woman. “What else are you going to ask forgiveness for?”
让我感到意外的是，一些反对的声音来自现居荷兰的俄罗斯人；这起灾难的责任应由全体俄罗斯人承担——这个看法似乎尤其让他们忿忿不平。“谁让你们这么做的？”其中一位女士写道。“你们还想为别的什么事请求原谅？”
One could suggest a few more things to apologize for, and several more countries to ask for forgiveness, but as my reporting trip continued I, for one, stopped feeling responsible for Russia.
人们可以再举出几件需要道歉的事，再说出几个需要向其求得原谅的国家，但在我继续在外执行报道任务的同时，就个人而言，我已经不再为俄罗斯感到内疚。