MOSCOW— A suicide bombing at a railroad station in central Russia killed at least 17 people on Sunday, according to official accounts, raising the specter of a new wave of terrorism ahead of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. More than two dozen were wounded, some of them critically, meaning the death toll could still rise.
莫斯科——据官方报道，周日，俄罗斯中部的一个火车站发生自杀式炸弹袭击，至少导致17人死亡，这让人们担心，新一轮的恐怖主义浪潮会在索契冬季奥运会临近之际袭来。伤者共有二十多人，部分伤者伤情严重，意味着死亡人数还可能会继续上升。
The explosion, which officials said was caused by a bomb possibly carried in a bag or backpack, struck the main railroad station in Volgograd, a city about 550 miles south of Moscow, at 12:45 p.m. It blew out windows in the building’s facade and left a horrific scene of carnage at the station’s main entrance.
官员称，爆炸于周日晚上12时45分发生在莫斯科以南约550英里（约合885公里）的伏尔加格勒的主火车站，引发爆炸的炸弹可能是装在袋子或背包里的。火车站大楼正面的窗户全部被炸碎，火车站主入口呈现出一幅可怕的大屠杀迹象。
The blast, captured on a surveillance video camera from across the central plaza in front of the station, occurred near the metal detectors that have become a common security fixture at most of Russia’s transportation hubs, suggesting that an attack deeper inside the station or aboard a train might have been averted.
站前中央广场对面的一个监控摄像头拍到了爆炸场景。俄罗斯大部分交通枢纽都已安装作为必备安全设施的金属探测器，此次爆炸正是发生在这个装置附近，说明袭击者原本可能打算在火车站内部或者火车上发动袭击，所幸未能得逞。
Vladimir I. Markin, a spokesman for the Investigative Committee, called the bombing an act of terrorism, though the exact motivation, target and perpetrator were not immediately clear. 
调查委员会(Investigative Committee)发言人弗拉基米尔·I·马尔金(Vladimir I. Markin)将此次爆炸称为恐怖主义行为，尽管目前尚不清楚此次爆炸的动机、目标和凶手。
Within hours of the attack, the authorities blamed a suicide bomber, citing the gruesome discovery of a woman’s severed head, which, they said, could aid in identifying her. Officials later said they had found a grenade and a pistol, and suggested that the attack might have been carried out by a man and a woman working together.
袭击发生几小时后，官方称此次爆炸是一名自杀式炸弹袭击者所为，并称他们发现了一名女性的头颅，而这个可怕的发现能帮助他们识别此人。官方晚些时候表示，他们发现了一枚手榴弹和一把手枪，暗示袭击可能由一男一女共同实施。
“Most likely, the victims could have been much higher if the so-called protective system had not stopped the suicide bomber from getting through the metal detectors into the waiting room where there were passengers,” Mr. Markin said in a statement on the committee’s website.
马尔金在调查委员会的网站上发表声明称，“如果所谓的保卫系统未能阻止这名自杀式袭击者通过金属探测器进入乘客所在的候车室，遇害者的人数很可能会高得多。”
It was the second such attack in Volgograd in two months. In October a woman identified as Naida Asiyalova detonated a vest of explosives aboard a bus in the city, killing herself and six others.
这是伏尔加格勒在两个月之内第二次遭遇此类袭击。10月，一个名叫娜伊达·阿斯亚洛娃(Naida Asiyalova)的女子在这座城市的一辆公共汽车上引爆了一件炸弹背心，炸死了自己和其他六人。
In that case, the authorities linked her by marriage to an explosives expert working with an Islamic rebel group in Dagestan, the southern republic where the police have struggled to suppress an insurgency by Muslim separatists. A month later, the authorities announced that they had killed her husband and four others in a raid in the region.
在这起案件中，当局把她与一名炸药专家联系在了一起，后者是她的丈夫，与达吉斯坦的一个伊斯兰反叛组织有合作。警方一直在这个南部共和国艰难地镇压穆斯林分裂主义者的反叛活动。一个月之后，官方宣布，他们已经在当地的一次突袭中杀死了她的丈夫和其他四人。
The republics of the North Caucasus, including Dagestan, Chechnya and Adygea, have for nearly two decades been embroiled in complex, ever-shifting armed conflicts that the International Crisis Group recently called “the most violent in Europe today.”
将近20年来，包括达吉斯坦、车臣和阿迪格在内的北高加索共和国一直陷于复杂而变化多端的武装冲突，近日，国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)将该地区的冲突称为“今日欧洲最暴力的冲突”。
The violence has left hundreds dead already this year and prompted the authorities to make extraordinary efforts to keep it from reaching Sochi, the Black Sea resort city that will be the host of the Winter Olympic Games six weeks from now.
今年，暴力事件已经致使数百人死亡，促使当局采取非同寻常的举措，防止暴力活动延伸至索契。索契是位于黑海沿岸的度假城市，将在六周以后举办冬季奥运会。
Doku Umarov, the Chechen rebel fighter who now leads a terrorist group known as the Caucasus Emirate, vowed in July to target Sochi explicitly, calling the Games “satanic.” “They plan to hold the Olympics on the bones of our ancestors, on the bones of many, many dead Muslims, buried on the territory of our land on the Black Sea,” Mr. Umarov said in a video statement.
今年7月，领导恐怖组织高加索酋长国(Caucasus Emirate)的车臣反叛武装分子多库·乌马罗夫(Doku Umarov)明确表示要将索契作为攻击目标，并称冬奥会“极其邪恶”。乌马罗夫在视频声明中表示，“我们的祖先和许许多多的穆斯林都埋骨于我们位于黑海沿岸的土地，他们计划在这些人的尸骨上举办奥运会。”
Mr. Umarov emerged from the ruins of Chechnya’s separatist movement, which the Russian government under President Vladimir V. Putin largely defeated. Chechnya itself remains comparatively stable under a regional leader embraced by the Kremlin, Ramzan Kadyrov, who has been accused of ruling through repression and abuse.
乌马罗夫从车臣分裂运动的残余势力之中崛起，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)领导的俄罗斯政府已经基本上挫败了该分裂运动。在地区领导人拉姆赞·卡德罗夫(Ramzan Kadyrov)的领导下，车臣本身保持着相对稳定，卡德罗夫得到了克里姆林宫(Kremlin)的支持，人们指责他通过镇压及滥权进行统治。
Mr. Umarov’s group, which ostensibly aims to create an independent emirate that would unite Russia’s southern Muslim republics, claimed responsibility for ordering two separate suicide bombings on Moscow’s subway in 2010 and an attack at Domodedovo Airport in Moscow in 2011.
乌马罗夫所在组织的公开目标是创建一个独立的酋长国，将俄罗斯南部的穆斯林共和国统一起来。该组织声称为2010年发生在莫斯科地铁的两起自杀式爆炸袭击，以及2011年发生在莫斯科多莫杰多沃机场(Domodedovo Airport)的袭击事件负责。
It is not clear why suicide bombers have now twice targeted Volgograd, a city of one million that under its former name was the scene of one of the epic battles of World War II: Stalingrad. It is the first major city north of the Caucasus, and its proximity to the region a factor in the attacks.
目前尚不清楚，自杀式炸弹袭击者为何两次锁定伏尔加格勒。该市有100万人口，原名斯大林格勒，是二战中一场重大战役的发生地。它是高加索以北的第一座大城市，接近高加索的地理位置是它遭遇袭击的原因之一。
Both attacks also struck means of transportation — a bus and the train station — and both raised speculation that the bombers might have intended to travel farther north, only to detonate their bombs early. On Friday, an explosion in a car killed three people in another city in the Caucasus, Pyatigorsk, though details of that attack remain sketchy, and it was not clear whether it was in any way related to Sunday’s bombing.
两起袭击行动针对的都是交通工具，一次是一辆公交车，一次是火车站，人们由此猜测，即炸弹袭击者本打算继续向北前行，结果却提早引爆了炸弹。周五，高加索地区另一城市皮亚季戈尔斯克发生汽车爆炸，致使三人死亡，但袭击事件的细节仍不明朗，目前也不清楚，这是否与周日的炸弹袭击有关联。
Mr. Putin ordered the authorities to provide assistance to the victims of Sunday’s bombing and their families and to tighten security at the country’s train stations and airports, all of which are busier than usual ahead of the New Year’s holiday.
普京已命令相关部门为周日炸弹袭击遇难者及其家人提供援助，并加强该国火车站及机场的安保工作。新年假期临近之际，这些交通枢纽都比平常繁忙。