MOSCOW — Gizem Akhan, 24, was about to begin her final year studying the culinary arts at Yeditepe University in Istanbul. Tomasz Dziemianczuk, 36, took a vacation from his job as a cultural adviser at the University of Gdansk in Poland that has now unexpectedly turned into an unpaid leave of absence.
莫斯科——24岁的吉泽姆·阿克汗(Gizem Akhan)本来应该开始在伊斯坦布尔的叶迪特佩大学(Yeditepe University)读烹饪专业的最后一年。36岁的托马茨·迪耶曼扎克(Tomasz Dziemianczuk)，只是暂离波兰格但斯克大学(University of Gdansk)文化顾问的岗位，休一次假，现在却出人意料地变成了无薪的旷工。
Dmitri Litvinov, 51, is a veteran activist who as a child spent four years in Siberian exile after his father, Pavel, took part in the Red Square protest against the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
德米特里·利特维诺夫(Dmitri Litvinov)51岁，是一位资深的权益活动人士，儿时曾在西伯利亚度过四年的流放生活，因为他父亲帕维尔(Pavel)在1968年到红场参加了一次活动，抗议苏联入侵捷克斯洛伐克。
“I didn’t expect my son to get in their clutch,” the elder Mr. Litvinov said in a telephone interview from Irvington, N.Y., where he settled to teach physics in nearby Tarrytown after being expelled from the Soviet Union in 1974.
“我没想到我儿子也会被他们抓去，”帕维尔·利特维诺夫在接受电话采访时说。他于1974年被逐出苏联后，前往纽约州欧文顿定居，在附近的塔里敦(Tarrytown)教物理。
Dmitri Litvinov and the others are just three of the 30 people aboard a Greenpeace International ship, the Arctic Sunrise, who are now confined in separate cells in the far northern city of Murmansk after staging a high-seas protest last month against oil exploration in the Arctic. All face criminal charges that could result in years in prison as a result of having grossly underestimated Russia’s readiness to assert — and even expand — its sovereignty in a region potentially rich with natural resources.
德米特里·利特维诺夫他们只是其中的三个，被抓住的一共有30人，都是绿色和平国际(Greenpeace International)的船只“极地曙光号”(Arctic Sunrise)上的船员。上个月在公海抗议北极石油勘探活动之后，现在他们全都在遥远的北方城市摩尔曼斯克，被分别关押在不同牢房里，面临着可能会判处数年监禁的刑事指控。这是因为他们严重低估了俄罗斯在这个可能蕴含着丰富自然资源的区域宣示主权、甚至扩张主权的决心。
The vigorous legal response by the authorities, including the seizure of the ship itself, appears to have caught Greenpeace off guard and left the crew’s families and friends worried that the consequences of what the activists considered a peaceful protest could prove much graver than any expected when they set out.
对于俄罗斯当局激烈的司法回应，包括扣押“极地曙光号”的做法，绿色和平组织似乎有些猝不及防。而船员的家人和朋友也开始担心，在这些活动人士看来属于和平抗议的事件，可能会招致比他们当初起航时预期的严重得多的后果。
“Naturally, every time Gizem sets out on a protest I feel anxious,” Ms. Akhan’s mother, Tulay, said in written responses delivered through Greenpeace. “I’m a mother, and most of the time she doesn’t even tell us she is participating. I’ve known the risks but couldn’t have foreseen that we would come face to face with such injustice.”
“每次吉泽姆参加抗议活动，我都会自然而然地觉得焦虑，”她的母亲图莱(Tulay)在通过绿色和平组织转达的书面回应中说。“我是一个母亲，大多数时候她去参与活动甚至不会告诉我们。我知道这种活动有风险，但没有料到他们会遭到这样不公的对待。”
Critics of the government of President Vladimir V. Putin have added the crew of the Arctic Sunrise to a catalog of prisoners here who have faced politically motivated or disproportionate punishment for challenging the state. Among them are the former oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the punk performers of Pussy Riot and the protesters awaiting trial more than a year after violence broke out on the day of Mr. Putin’s inauguration in 2012.
普京政府的批评者把“极地曙光号”的船员添加到了一个在押者名单中。这个名单上的人由于挑战政府，受到了出于政治原因做出的惩罚，或者过于严厉的惩罚。名单中包括前石油大亨米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)、朋克乐队Pussy Riot的成员，以及2012年普京就职典礼当日发生暴力事件之后，已经等待审判一年多的抗议者们。
But there is one crucial difference: Most of those who were aboard the Arctic Sunrise are foreigners.
但一个关键区别在于：“极地曙光号”的船员大多是外国人。
They hail from 18 nations. Two of them, Denis Sinyakov of Russia and Kieron Bryan of Britain, are freelance journalists who joined the crew to chronicle the ship’s voyage, which began in Amsterdam and ended on Sept. 19 when Russian border guards borne by helicopters descended on the ship in the Pechora Sea.
他们来自18个国家。其中有两名自由记者，分别是俄罗斯人丹尼斯·新雅科夫(Denis Sinyakov)的和英国人基隆·布莱恩(Kieron Bryan)，他们上船是为了记录航程经历。这段航程开始于阿姆斯特丹，9月19日，乘直升机赶来的俄罗斯边防军降到甲板上时，这段航程在伯朝拉海结束了。
Alexandra Harris of Britain, 27, was on her first trip to the Arctic. Camila Speziale, 21, of Argentina, was on her first trip at sea. Others were veteran Greenpeace activists, including the American captain, Peter Willcox, who was skipper of the Rainbow Warrior in 1985 when French secret service agents bombed it at dockside in Auckland, New Zealand, leading to the drowning death of a photographer onboard, Fernando Pereira.
27岁的亚历山德拉·哈里斯(Alexandra Harris)来自英国，这是她第一次到北极。21岁的卡米拉·斯佩齐亚莱(Camila Speziale)来自阿根廷，这是她的首次海上航行。其他人都多次参加过绿色和平组织的活动，其中美国籍船长彼得·威尔科克斯(Peter Willcox)曾在1985年担任“彩虹勇士号”(Rainbow Warrior)船长。当时法国情报部门的特工在新西兰奥克兰的码头炸毁了那艘船，导致船上的一名摄影师费尔南多·佩雷拉(Fernando Pereira)溺水身亡。
When the government of the Netherlands, where Greenpeace International is based, filed an appeal to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to have the ship and crew released, Russia’s Foreign Ministry said it would not recognize the tribunal’s jurisdiction, citing the country’s sovereignty. The tribunal has scheduled a hearing on the Dutch claim anyway, but unless Russia seeks a compromise that would free the prisoners, the crew could be detained for months awaiting trial.
绿色和平组织的总部设在荷兰，荷兰政府已经上诉到国际海洋法法庭(International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea)，要求释放“极地曙光号”和船员，但俄罗斯外交部表示不承认国际法庭的管辖权，称这属于俄罗斯主权管辖范围。对于荷兰的上诉，国际海洋法法庭还是安排了一个听证会，但除非俄罗斯主动妥协释放船员，否则他们将被拘留数月，等候审判。
Neither Greenpeace’s activists nor their cause have found much sympathy in Russia, their fate shaped in part by hostile coverage on state-owned or state-controlled television. The main state network, Channel One, recently broadcast an analysis that suggested that Greenpeace’s protest had been orchestrated by powerful backers with economic incentives to undermine Gazprom.
在俄罗斯，无论是绿色和平组织活动者还是他们的事业都没有引起多少同情。俄罗斯国有或国家控制的电视台的负面报道，在一定程度上影响了活动者们的命运。俄罗斯最大的国营电视台“第一频道”(Channel One)最近播出的一个分析节目称，绿色和平组织的抗议活动是有权有势的支持者为打击俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)而精心策划的，会得到经济上的好处。
After their formal arrest on Sept. 24, the crew members appeared one by one in court and were charged with piracy and ordered held at least until Nov. 24. One by one their appeals for bail were denied. Last week, the regional investigative committee reduced the charges to hooliganism, a crime that nonetheless carries a penalty of up to seven years in prison.
船员被正式逮捕后，于9月24日逐一出现在法庭上。法庭指控他们犯有海盗罪，并下令扣押他们至少到11月24日。船员们的保释申请被逐一拒绝。上周，地区调查委员会把指控罪名降低为流氓罪，该罪名仍然可以处以高达七年的监禁。
The committee raised the possibility of new charges against some crew members that could result in longer sentences upon conviction. This week they again began appearing in court to hear the new charges read against them.
这个委员会有可能对某些船员提出一些新的指控，定罪后可能会导致更长的监禁期。本周，船员们再次出现在法庭上，听取对他们的新指控。
According to Greenpeace and relatives, the prisoners have not been mistreated in the detention center where they are now held, next to Murmansk’s morgue. They have had access to lawyers and diplomats from their respective countries. They are allowed care packages delivered by Greenpeace, occasional phone calls and sporadic visits from those relatives who can make it to Murmansk. The captain and chief engineer were taken to visit and inspect the Arctic Sunrise, now moored in Murmansk’s port.
据绿色和平组织以及船员的亲属说，这些囚犯在看守所里没有受到虐待，该看守所位于摩尔曼斯克的太平间旁边。船员可以联系各自国家的律师和外交官。绿色和平组织的爱心包裹也可以送达他们手中，船员偶尔可以打电话，前往摩尔曼斯克的亲属偶尔可以入内探视。船长和轮机长也被带去检查了“极地曙光号”，目前它停泊在摩尔曼斯克的港口。
Conditions, though, are grim.
但看守所的条件很艰苦。
In letters or phone calls to their families, they have described small, unheated cells in a city that lies north of the Arctic circle, unappetizing meals and Russian cellmates who smoke relentlessly. They spend 23 hours a day in their cells, with only an hour of exercise a day in an enclosed courtyard and the periodic visits with lawyers or trips to court for a hearing. A voyage meant to last two or three months for most of the crew has now become a much bleaker one with no clear end in sight.
在给家人写的信件或电话中，船员们说牢房空间狭小、没有暖气，而该城位于北极圈内，此外饭菜也难以下咽，俄罗斯狱友抽起烟来没完没了。他们每天23小时待在牢房里，只有一个小时可以在一个封闭的庭院里锻炼，并定期与律师见面，或者前往法院接受聆讯。对于大部分船员来说，这趟航程原计划持续两、三个月，现在却落得这么凄凉，而且看不到解决的希望。
“It’s very cold now,” Ms. Harris, the activist from Britain on her first Greenpeace operation in the Arctic, wrote in a letter to her parents and brother that was widely cited in the British press: “It snowed last night. The blizzard blew my very poorly insulated window open and I had to sleep wearing my hat.”
英国活动者哈里斯给父母和兄弟写的一封信被英国媒体广泛引用，这是她首次参加前往北极的绿色和平组织活动。她在信中写道：“现在非常冷。昨晚下了雪。暴雪把密封得很差的窗户吹开，我不得不戴着帽子睡觉。”
She went on to express a measure of resolve, saying she practiced yoga in her cell and tapped on the wall to the music piped in, but she also wrote of nervousness and uncertainty in a confinement that she compared to slowly dying.
接着她表达了自己的决心，称她在牢房里练瑜伽，随着传来的音乐敲击墙壁，但她也写到了被监禁的焦虑和不安，将其形容为慢慢死去。
“I heard that from December Murmansk is dark for six weeks,” she wrote. “God, I hope I’m out by then.”
她写道：“我听说在摩尔曼斯克，从12月开始有六周的极夜。上帝啊，我希望到那时我已经出去了。”