MOSCOW — The artist's brush was a cigarette lighter, his paint a can of gasoline and the canvas, as it has always been for Pyotr Pavlensky, a symbol of the Russian state.
莫斯科——艺术家彼得·帕夫连斯基(Pyotr Pavlensky)这次的画笔是一个打火机，颜料是一罐汽油，而画布就像以往一样，也是俄罗斯国家的象征。
In the early hours of Monday morning, the performance artist best known for nailing his scrotum to the cobblestones of Red Square set fire to an entrance to the headquarters of Russia's Federal Security Bureau, the FSB.
本周一凌晨，这位行为艺术家在俄罗斯联邦安全局（Federal Security Bureau，简称 FSB）总部的一个入口处点起了火。他之前最著名的行为艺术是把自己的阴囊钉在红场的鹅卵石上。
The door to the building known as Lubyanka burst into flames, but quickly burned out, apparently causing only slight charring.
这栋建筑物称为卢比扬卡(Lubyanka)，通向它的大门燃起火焰，但很快就熄灭了，似乎只造成了轻微烧痕。
Pavlensky, whose work smudges the boundaries between protest, art and revolutionary activity, called the immolation on Monday “Threat.” His plans apparently went undetected by the FSB, which like its predecessor, the KGB, is responsible for surveilling the Russian population to prevent crimes and attacks.
帕夫连斯基的作品模糊了抗议、艺术和革命活动之间的界限，他说本周一的燃烧艺术名为“威胁”。FSB似乎没有能事先发现他的计划。FSB的职能和其前身克格勃(KGB)一样，也是监视俄罗斯民众，防止犯罪和袭击活动。
The police charged Pavlensky, 31, a dropout from one of Russia's most prestigious art academies, with vandalism, but left open the possibility of additional criminal counts.
警方以破坏罪名起诉了帕夫连斯基，但仍然可能再以其他刑事罪名起诉他。帕夫连斯基现年31岁，曾是俄罗斯最负盛名的艺术院校的辍学生。
As the government of President Vladimir V. Putin has marginalized the political opposition and co-opted or repressed independent media, protest art like Pavlensky's remains a rare possibility for dissent, said Marat Guelman, a Moscow art critic and gallery owner.
莫斯科艺术评论家、画廊老板马拉特·盖尔曼(Marat Guelman)说，总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)领导的政府对政治反对派实施边缘化，拉拢或压制独立媒体，而帕夫连斯基等人的抗议艺术作品，一直是异见人士为数不多的表达途径之一。
“Authoritarian regimes want classicism, but it transforms into kitsch, and protest movements are more democratic in their influences,” Guelman said.
“威权政权想借用古典主义，却把它变成了媚俗，抗议活动在影响力上更加民主，”盖尔曼说。
“We don't need an artist as a decorator,” he added, saying that artists like Pavlensky maintain an important “moral authority” in Russia.
“我们不需要做粉饰工作的艺术家，”他说，像帕夫连斯基这样的艺术家，在俄罗斯维持了重要的“道德权威”。
Pavlensky comes from a community of protest artists in St. Petersburg, the most prominent of whom made up the art collective Voina, or War, which took aim at what the artists saw as the neo-Soviet side of Putin's policies.
帕夫连斯基来自圣彼得堡的一个抗议艺术家群体，他们当中最有名的一些人，组成了一个名为“战争”(Voina)的艺术团体。这些艺术家攻击的目标是，普京的政策中被他们形容为“新苏联式”的一面。
Pavlensky considers his work to be in the tradition of subversive street artists, prominent in former Soviet politics, that include the punk protest group Pussy Riot and other artists who played a pivotal role before the 2013 uprising in Ukraine.
帕夫连斯基认为自己的工作符合颠覆性街头艺术家的传统。这类艺术家包括朋克抗议团体Pussy Riot，以及其他一些在2013年乌克兰发生大规模抗议之前，发挥着关键作用的艺术家。在前苏联的政局中，这类艺术家也很突出。
There, the disrobing by members of the feminist group Femen in protest and actions like frying an egg on the eternal flame in Kiev that memorializes soldiers killed in World War II were part of the movement that helped oust the government of Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president. The events in Ukraine, and the Kremlin's intervention there, including the annexation of Crimea, have motivated some dissenting voices in Russia.
在乌克兰，女权主义团体Femen的成员做出的抗议行动，如脱衣抗议，以及在基辅纪念二战阵亡士兵的“永恒之火”上煎蛋的举动，都是乌克兰民众抗议运动的一部分。那场运动帮助推翻了前总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)。乌克兰发生的事件，以及俄罗斯当局插手乌克兰事务，包括吞并克里米亚的做法，促使俄罗斯国内出现了一些反对的声音。
“Art is lucky in Russia,” Guelman said. “Art is again in the avant-garde.”
“在俄罗斯，艺术是幸运的，”盖尔曼说。“艺术又成了前卫的东西。”
Pavlensky, wiry and intense, is missing a quarter inch or so of his right earlobe, having cut it off for an art piece. In 2013 he affixed his scrotum to a crack in the cobblestones of Red Square in Moscow for a piece he called “Fixation.”
帕夫连斯基体型精瘦，神态紧张，右耳垂缺了一小块，因为被他割掉，用在了一件艺术作品上了。2013年，他把自己的阴囊固定在了莫斯科红场上的鹅卵石缝里，创作了被他称作“固定”(Fixation)的作品。
In an interview with The New York Times this summer, he described his art as consisting of two parts: his own action and the reaction of the government, which he says tends only to emphasize his themes.
今年夏天接受《纽约时报》采访时，他说自己的艺术由两部分构成：自己的行动和政府的反应。他表示，政府的反应往往只会强调他的主题。
For example, last year, when he cut off part of his ear sitting naked on the fence of the Serbsky Center, a psychiatric institute that repressed political dissidents in the Soviet Union, he was, as expected, escorted by the police into the building for evaluation.
比如去年，他一丝不挂地来到谢尔布斯基中心(Serbsky Center)的围栏外，割掉了自己的一部分耳垂。警方果然把他押进了这所精神病院里，接受评估。这所精神病院曾在苏联时期压迫政治异见人士。
The action on Red Square, he said, was inspired by Russian prisoners in remote penal colonies where nailing one's scrotum to a bunk bed or the wooden planks of a barracks floor is an established, if extreme, form of protest against the actions of prison guards. Performing “Fixation” in the glittery, commercial heart of contemporary Moscow was Pavlensky's commentary on the voluntary submission of Russian men and likened Putin's rule to a penal colony.
他说，红场上的行动，灵感来源于流放到偏远劳役营里的俄罗斯犯人。在那里，把阴囊钉在床板上或营房地面的木板上，是一种极端但由来已久的抗议形式，目的是反抗监狱看守的行为。在当代莫斯科光芒四射的商业中心表演“固定”，是帕夫连斯基对俄罗斯男性的自愿屈服发表的评论，也把普京的统治比喻成了劳役营。
“Sometimes, you pass a point of no return,” he said of how he felt about this performance, which like all of his actions, ended with his arrest. “I nailed my sack to the chink in the stones.”
“有时候，会走到无路可退的地步，”他如此总结自己对这次行为艺术的感想。和他所有的行动一样，这次他再度被捕。“我把卵蛋钉在了石头缝里。”
He has also described his work as a way to act out the behavior that the security state expects from its citizens.
他还说，自己的工作，是把这个安全国家以为民众会做出的行为付诸实践的一种方式。
That may well include posing a threat, the title of Monday's act, though Pavlensky, still in detention hours later, did not comment publicly after setting the door on fire.
这很可能包括构成威胁。“威胁”正是他周一行动的名字。事情发生几小时后，帕夫连斯基仍被关着。不过把门点着后，他并未公开发表评论。