SOCHI, Russia — Many expected a Russian to win a gold medal in women’s figure skating at the Sochi Games, but hardly anyone expected that it would be Adelina Sotnikova.
俄罗斯索契——很多人估计，俄罗斯人会赢得索契冬奥会的花样滑冰女子单人滑金牌，只是没什么人预想到会是阿德利娜·索特尼科娃(Adelina Sotnikova)。
Overlooked by her country earlier at the Olympic team event, Sotnikova, 17, waited patiently for the singles competition and delivered a sophisticated and aggressive performance on Thursday to score a major upset over the 2010 champion, Kim Yu-na of South Korea.
在之前的奥运团体赛中，17岁的索特尼科娃被自己的祖国冷落。她耐心地等待单人滑比赛，并于周四成功完成了令人眼花缭乱的强势表演，爆冷战胜了2010年的冠军韩国人金妍儿(Kim Yu-na)。
In the subjective world of figure skating, which is governed by an opaque judging system and a complicated scoring system not easily understood by casual fans, the outcome fostered immediate debate.
花样滑冰项目的主观性很强，评判系统颇不透明，其复杂的打分系统对一般的冰迷而言并不容易理解。这一赛果立即引发了争论。
Sotnikova landed seven triple jumps to six for Kim and won the long program with 149.95 points. She finished with 224.59 overall points and became the first Russian or Soviet woman to win an individual gold medal.
相较金妍儿的六个三周跳，索特尼科娃成功完成了七个，长节目得分为149.95。她两套节目的总得分为224.59，成为了赢得冬奥会女单金牌的首个俄罗斯人或苏联人。
Even with her grace, maturity, composure and soaring jumping ability, Kim led by less than a point after Wednesday’s short program. On Thursday, she skated a poised and flowing tango routine and finished with 144.19 points in the long program.
尽管在周三的比赛中充分展现了优雅、成熟、沉着的风范，及高飘的跳跃能力，金妍儿却仅以不到1分的优势在短节目比赛中拔得头筹。到了周四，她滑出了优雅流畅的探戈表演，最终在长节目中获得了144.19分。
Still, her routine was not the most athletically challenging. Sotnikova scored higher on the technical merit of her program. For instance, Kim did not attempt a triple loop or a double axel, triple toe loop combination, as Sotnikova did.
不过，她的这套动作不足以在运动难度上傲视群芳。索特尼科娃在长节目中获得了更高的技术内容分。举例而言，金妍儿没有尝试索特尼科娃成功演绎的后外结环三周跳，以及阿克塞尔两周跳接后外点冰三周跳的组合。
Also, Kim did not receive the highest level for her step sequence or her layback spin. She took the silver medal with 219.11 collective points.
而且，金妍儿也没能在连续步和躬身旋转中达到最高水准。她最终以219.11的总得分摘得银牌。
“It was totally fair,” said Elvis Stojko, a two-time Olympic silver medalist from Canada. “Adelina was ready. Kim didn’t have enough technical ammunition.”
“非常公平，”加拿大的双料奥运银牌得主埃尔维斯·斯托伊科(Elvis Stojko)说。“阿德利娜准备充分。金妍儿的技术武器库里没有足够的弹药。”
Sotnikova’s skating appears tailor made for the current scoring system, a kind of scavenger hunt for accumulated points that, some experts have complained, favors mathematics at the expense of artistry.
索特尼科娃的表演似乎是为目前的打分系统度身定制的。该系统需要集齐各项动作的分数，引得一些专家抱怨她太偏重数学计算，却牺牲了艺术性。
The former 6.0 system was replaced after a vote-trading scandal by judges discredited the pairs and ice dancing competitions at the 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake City.
过去的打分系统以6.0为满分。不过，2002年盐湖城冬奥会的双人滑和冰舞的比赛因一桩互惠打分丑闻而蒙羞，因此这一评分方式后来被替换。
In the current scoring system, each jump and spin and footwork sequence is assigned a numerical value, like a cholesterol count. Artistic marks such as performance, choreography and musical interpretation are also given a numerical value in an attempt to make the sport more objective.
按照当前的打分系统，每种跳跃、旋转和连续步都会有相应的分值，就像胆固醇指数一样。为了让这项运动变得更为客观，表演、编排和音乐诠释等艺术表现也都有相应的分值。
The difference in Thursday’s long program was more than 5.5 points — about 4 points in the base numerical value of Sotnikova’s technical elements and about 2 points in the quality of how they were performed.
周四的长节目比赛中，冠亚军之间的差距逾5.5分——大约4分来自于索特尼科娃的技术内容，2分左右来自这些内容的完成质量。
Sotnikova has been known to falter in the long program, unable to control her emotions, but she was assured at the Olympics. While Sotnikova’s skating is not as aesthetically pleasing as Kim’s, her athletic style “checks off every box” and “does everything the judges are looking for,” said Scott Hamilton, the 1984 Olympic champion.
一直以来，索特尼科娃都有着在长节目中失手的名声，不能控制自己的情绪。不过，在本次奥运会上，她充满自信。虽然索特尼科娃滑行的美感不及金妍儿，但1984年的奥运冠军斯科特·汉密尔顿(Scott Hamilton)表示，她在技术上“完成了所有任务”，“做足了裁判希望看到的每个动作”。
“I have to look at it and respect it,” Hamilton said of Thursday’s result.
谈到周四的赛果时，汉密尔顿说，“我必须得看到这一点，尊重这一点。”
Not everyone agreed. Ashley Wagner of the United States, who finished seventh, criticized the judging system, in which scores were given anonymously, saying she was left “speechless” by the outcome.
并非每个人都同意这种看法。最终名列第七的美国选手阿什莉·瓦格纳(Ashley Wagner)对匿名打分的评判系统予以了批评，表示这一赛果让自己“说不出话来”。
A number of international skaters, coaches and officials have said the anonymity of the judges undermines the sport’s transparency and credibility. Judges, who are appointed by their national skating federations, lack independence. Scandal is commonplace, as are apparent conflicts of interest.
多名国际选手、教练和官员表示，匿名打分会损害花滑运动的透明性和可信度。裁判由所在国家的滑联指定，缺乏独立性。花滑界丑闻频发，还常常显露出利益冲突。
One of the judges in the women’s competition, Yuri Balkov of Ukraine, was at the center of an ice dancing scandal at the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan, when he was reportedly recorded by a Canadian judge trying to predetermine the outcome.
女子比赛的裁判之一是乌克兰的尤里·巴尔科夫(Yuri Balkov)。他本人曾卷入1998年日本长野冬奥会的冰舞丑闻，据报被一名加拿大裁判录下了企图事先操纵赛果的内容。
Another judge, Alla Shekhovtsova of Russia, is the wife of Valentin Piseev, who was formerly the president of the Russian figure skating federation and is now its general director.
另一名裁判是俄罗斯的阿拉·舍克霍夫索娃(Alla Shekhovtsova)。她的丈夫曾担任俄罗斯滑联的主席，目前是该组织的总干事。
No referee or judge involved in Thursday’s decision was immediately made available to explain the outcome.
参与周四评分的裁判或评委中，无法立即联系到任何人来对赛果进行解释。
“It’s confusing, and we need to make it clear for people,” Wagner said. “I’m speechless. This sport needs to be held accountable if it wants more people to believe in it.”
“这让人相当困惑，我们应该让大家明白是怎么回事，”瓦格纳表示。“我说不出话来。如果这项运动想要更多人有信心的话，就需要作出解释。”
Dick Button, a two-time Olympic champion, said in a telephone interview that it was “flagrant hypocrisy” to have a judge like Balkov still judging figure skating.
曾两夺奥运冠军的迪克·巴顿(Dick Button)通过电话接受采访时说，让巴尔科夫这样的人继续担任花滑裁判实在是“虚伪至极”。
The basic problem with the judging system, Button said, is that “anyone can cheat. All the time. These kids work until they’re blue in the face, and you think they would be given an honest and straightforward response.”
巴顿说，评分体系最基本的问题就是，“每个人都能作弊。情况一直如此。这些孩子一直训练到脸色发青，你会觉得他们理应得到诚实而坦率的回应。”
Carolina Kostner, 27, of Italy overcame collapses at the past two Olympics to win the bronze medal. She skated joyously on Thursday after falling three times in the long program at the 2010 Vancouver Games and finishing 16th after completing only one triple jump.
27岁的意大利选手卡罗琳娜·科斯特纳(Carolina Kostner)克服上两届奥运会中的失败阴影，获得铜牌。在2010年温哥华冬奥会的长节目比赛中，她跌倒了三次，在只完成一个三周跳的情况下，位列第16名。然而在周四的比赛中，她滑得相当欢快。
Kim, who was the last competitor of the night, did not see the others perform. She was attempting to join only Sonja Henie of Norway (1928, 1932, 1936) and Katarina Witt of the former East Germany (1984, 1988) as successive women’s champions.
金妍儿是当晚压轴出场的参赛选手，她没有观看其他人的比赛。她原本尝试加入挪威的索尼娅·海尼（Sonja Henie，1928、1932与1936年）和前东德的卡特琳娜·维特（Katarina Witt，1984与1988年）的行列，成为第三位蝉联冬奥会冠军的女子花滑运动员。
“The scores are given by the judges,” said Kim, who repeated that this would be her final Olympics. “I’m not in the right position to comment on it. There is nothing that will change with my words. The most important thing was to participate in these Games.”
“分数是裁判给的，”金妍儿说。她多次表示这将是自己最后一次参加奥运会。“这不是我应该评论的事情。我的话也改变不了什么。最重要的是参与比赛。”
Kim did admit, though, that she was less driven to win a second gold medal than she had been to win her first, saying she had “no obvious goal.”
然而，金妍儿的确承认，自己此次夺冠的欲望并不像第一次时那样强烈，她说自己“没有明确的目标”。
At the Vancouver Games, Kim said: “I would die for a gold medal in the Olympics. That desire, that strong wish, was not as present. The motivation was a problem, I think.”
金妍儿表示，在温哥华冬奥会上，“为了在奥运会上获得金牌，我宁愿付出生命。那种渴望，那种强烈的愿望与现在不同。我认为，动机就是问题的关键。”
On Thursday, Sotnikova’s only obvious mistake, a minor one, was a two-footed landing at the end of a combination.
周四，索特尼科娃只出现了一次明显的小失误，即在一个组合动作结束时双足落冰。
When she finished her four-minute routine, she put her hands to her face in realization that she might win the gold medal. “I realized I would be on the podium, but I didn’t know which medal,” Sotnikova said. When her score appeared on the scoreboard, she said, “I really didn’t believe my eyes, frankly speaking.”
在完成4分钟的整套节目后，她双手掩面，意识到自己可能会获得金牌。“我意识到自己能登上领奖台，但我不知道会是什么颜色的奖牌，”索特尼科娃说。当分数出现在计分板上时，她表示，“老实说，我真不敢相信自己的眼睛。”
Sotnikova’s victory confirmed Russia’s re-emergence in international figure skating after it failed to win a single gold medal for the first time in five decades at the 2010 Vancouver Games. It is now the only country to have won every discipline in Olympic figure skating — the team event, pairs, men’s and women’s singles, and ice dancing.
索特尼科娃的胜利表明，俄罗斯又重新回到了国际花样滑冰舞台的中心。在2010年的温哥华冬奥会上，俄罗斯50年来首次未能获得花滑项目的任何金牌。而现在，俄罗斯是唯一在奥运会花样滑冰比赛的每个项目上——集体、双人、男单、女单和冰舞——都曾夺魁的国家。
Even though she is a four-time Russian champion, having won her first national title at age 12, Sotnikova had been overshadowed lately by a teammate, Yulia Lipnitskaya, 15, whose unexpectedly quick ascent brought her the European championship last month.
虽然索特尼科娃曾四次获得俄罗斯全国冠军，12岁时就首次在国家比赛中脱颖而出，但她最近被15岁的队友尤利娅·利普尼茨卡娅(Yulia Lipnitskaya)夺去了光芒。利普尼茨卡娅出人意料的迅速崛起使她在上个月成为了欧洲冠军。
Lipnitskaya performed the short and long program of the women’s portion of the Olympic team event. She became an international sensation with her flexibility and wondrous spins as Russia won the gold medal, while Sotnikova kept training out of the glare of publicity.
此次奥运会的团体赛中，俄罗斯队女单项目的短节目和长节目都由利普尼茨卡娅负责。她以极佳的灵活性和惊人的旋转动作帮俄罗斯夺得了花样滑冰团体赛金牌，并在世界上引起了轰动。此时，索特尼科娃却在默默地继续训练。
“I got really angry,” Sotnikova said of being omitted from the team event. “I decided I will get a medal in the individual event. I did it.”
“我非常生气，”索特尼科娃在提到未入选团体赛时说。“我下定决心要在单人比赛中拿到奖牌。我做到了。”
On Wednesday, in the traditional women’s short program, Lipnitskaya fell on a triple flip and crashed into fifth place. She fell again in the long program and remained fifth over all.
周三，在传统的女子短节目中，利普尼茨卡娅表演后内点冰三周跳时摔倒，结果位列第五。她在长节目中再次跌倒，最终的名次仍然保持在第五。
Sotnikova buzzed around the ice during the short program with strength and energy in a performance to “Carmen.” She received a higher technical score than Kim and found herself in second place by less than a point.
在短节目中，索特尼科娃伴随着《卡门》翩翩起舞。她的表演充满了力量与活力，得到的技术分比金妍儿高，短节目后以不到1分的差距位列第二。
The gold medal came 13 years after Sotnikova began skating in Moscow at age 4. In 2008, she became Russia’s national champion. That a 12-year-old would be the best female skater in Russia was a sign that the country was still struggling athletically after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991.
索特尼科娃从4岁开始在莫斯科学习滑冰，13年后终于获得了这块金牌。2008年，她成为俄罗斯的全国冠军。一名12岁的女孩成为俄罗斯最佳单人滑运动员的情况表明，自从1991年苏联解体后，俄罗斯仍然在运动方面苦苦挣扎。
Rinks closed, government funding dried up, many coaches left the country and many parents did not have the disposable income to pay for skating lessons.
滑冰场关了门，政府几乎没有任何资金投入，许多教练都离开了俄罗斯。很多家长也没有足够的可支配收入，来供孩子学习滑冰。
Qualifying for the Olympics became her dream. “My second dream was to win the Olympics, and I did,” Sotnikova said.
能够参加奥运会成了索特尼科娃的梦想。她说，“我的第二个梦想就是在奥运会中夺冠，我做到了。”