The waiters hovered as Alimzhan T. Tokhtakhounov worked through a platter of chilled mussels, shrimp and octopus one afternoon last month at the restaurant Palazzo Ducale, one of the finest here. The staff could afford to be attentive: there was no one else to serve.
上个月的一天下午，当阿利姆然·T·托赫塔霍乌诺夫(Alimzhan T. Tokhtakhounov)在莫斯科最好的餐厅之一公爵府(Palazzo Ducale)享用一大盘贻贝、虾和章鱼的时候，服务员就守在一旁。提供细致的服务对餐厅员工来说不成问题，因为当时没有其他顾客。
Despite the hour, toward the end of what is usually a busy lunchtime, the restaurant was empty when Mr. Tokhtakhounov came in to speak with a reporter about recent racketeering charges in the United States.
尽管已经到了通常较为繁忙的午餐时间都即将结束之时，这家餐厅仍然空无一人。这时托赫塔霍乌诺夫走了进来，他要与一名记者谈论近期在美国被起诉敲诈的情况。
American law enforcement officials view Mr. Tokhtakhounov as a leading figure in Russian organized crime, a member of a storied order of Russian mobsters who is accused of, among other activities, fixing skating matches at the Salt Lake City Olympics and running a high-stakes, trans-Atlantic gambling and money-laundering ring.
美国执法官员认为托赫塔霍乌诺夫是俄罗斯有组织犯罪的重要人物，是一个传说中的俄罗斯犯罪团伙的成员。有关方面针对他的一些活动提出了指控，其中包括操纵盐湖城冬奥会滑冰比赛结果、经营高赌注的跨大西洋赌博和洗钱组织等。
But aside from the eerie void in the restaurant and a guard outside, Mr. Tokhtakhounov’s life here seems open and even somewhat ordinary.
然而，除了餐厅怪异地空无一人和门口的守卫以外，托赫塔霍乌诺夫在这里的生活似乎没有什么见不得人的地方，甚至还比较平常。
Like other men whom the American authorities have identified as Russian mobsters, he walks the streets freely, albeit with a bodyguard. He has his picture taken smiling alongside the glitterati at concerts, fashion shows and soccer matches. He invests in real estate and has recently taken up fiction writing. He showed his guest one of his novels, “Angel From Couture,” a semiautobiographical story that focuses on the love affair of a young model and an older man.
与其他被美国官方指认为俄罗斯黑帮成员的人一样，他可以自由地在街道上行走，只是身边有保镖而已。照片上的他往往是在音乐会、时装秀和足球赛等场合，面带微笑地站在社会名流身旁。他目前在从事房地产投资，最近还开始创作小说。他向自己的客人展示了其中的一部。这本名为《高级定制时装中的天使》(Angel From Couture)的半自传体小说主要讲的是一个年轻模特与一位老男人之间的爱情故事。
Whatever else he may be, he insisted over lunch, he is innocent of all charges against him.
不管他还有什么其他身份，他在午餐时间坚称他面临的所有指控都是子虚乌有。
“I am not bad, like you think,” he said, spearing an octopus tentacle with his fork and washing it down with sparkling mineral water. “I am not the Mafia, I am not a bandit.”
“我并不像你想得那么坏，”他表示，与此同时用叉子叉起章鱼须吃下，然后喝下一口带汽矿泉水，“我不是黑手党，我不是土匪。”
Federal authorities in the United States have been pursuing Mr. Tokhtakhounov (pronounced toe-TAH-hoon-ov) since 2002, when he was charged with fixing ice dancing and pairs skating competitions at the Salt Lake City Olympics.
自2002年托赫塔霍乌诺夫被指控操纵盐湖城冬奥会的冰舞和双人滑冰比赛结果以来，美国联邦政府一直在追捕他。
In the more recent case, federal prosecutors in Manhattan charged him in April with being a leader of a sports betting ring with operations in New York, Los Angeles, Russia and Ukraine. The setup drew in billionaire gamblers and laundered money through accounts around the world, prosecutors say.
在一个最近的案例里，曼哈顿的联邦检察官于4月起诉他是一个体育赌博团伙的大头目，而该团伙在纽约、洛杉矶、俄罗斯和乌克兰都有业务。检方称，这个组织吸引了一些身家亿万的赌徒，而且还通过世界各地的账户洗钱。
Their indictment identifies Mr. Tokhtakhounov as a particular type of Russian criminal known as a “Vor v Zakone,” or “thief in law,” sometimes known as a Vor: a member of an almost priestly order, originally forged from prison hierarchies in the gulags. Vors are said to live by a strict code: They never marry, work or tell lies.
在起诉书中，他们把托赫塔霍乌诺夫指认为一种特殊的俄罗斯罪犯，也就是所谓的“律贼”（Vor v Zakone，英文为thief in law），有时也被称作Vor，即一种几近宗教团体的组织的成员，这种团体源于古拉格集中营的监狱等级制度。据说，Vor要按照严格的准则生活：他们不结婚、不工作也不撒谎。
Mr. Tokhtakhounov, who is in his mid-60s, is “one of the last of the older generation of godfathers,” said Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University and an authority on Russian criminality. And his is among a handful of names that virtually every Russian gangster recognizes, he said.
纽约大学(New York University)教授、研究俄罗斯犯罪的权威人士马克·加莱奥蒂(Mark Galeotti)说，65岁左右的托赫塔霍乌诺夫是“最后一批老一代教父的成员”。他说，托赫塔霍乌诺夫这个名字是少数几个几乎所有俄罗斯黑帮成员都知道的名字之一。
Despite that reputation and the American charges, Russian authorities leave Mr. Tokhtakhounov alone. Russia has no extradition treaty with the United States and no outstanding charges against him. His thin criminal history here, an internal passport violation and an infraction for being unemployed, dates from the Soviet era and is no longer on the books.
虽然他名声在外，而且美国还对他提出了指控，但俄罗斯官方却没有找托赫塔霍乌诺夫的麻烦。俄罗斯与美国之间没有引渡协议，而且也没有针对他的未经处理的指控。他在这里的犯罪记录很少，只有一次国家内部护照违规和不就业违规，这些记录可以追溯到苏联时期，而且已经不在记录之中了。
Russian police officials say they have nothing on Mr. Tokhtakhounov; a spokeswoman for the Ministry of Interior Affairs, which oversees the police, confirmed he is on no wanted list here.
俄罗斯警方称他们没有托赫塔霍乌诺夫的任何违规证据；负责监管警方的内务部的女发言人确认，托赫塔霍乌诺夫并非俄罗斯的缉捕对象。
Russia under Vladimir V. Putin has arrived at a sort of détente with organized crime. In the 1990s, after the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia was besieged by mob wars in which gangsters publicly killed their enemies, but such violence has dropped sharply over the past decade.
在弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的领导下，俄罗斯政府与有组织犯罪达成了某种妥协。20世纪90年代苏联解体后，俄罗斯一度饱受黑帮战争的困扰。歹徒经常在混战中公开杀害敌人，但这种暴行在过去10年里已经大幅减少了。
Many violent crime figures have evolved into semilegitimate businessmen who carry on their activities through somewhat more acceptable means. Some now operate so openly that they have held gatherings on pleasure boats in the Moscow River in the heart of the city, the police say.
很多暴力犯罪人物都变成了半合法的商人，这些人在通过某些更容易被人接受的途径继续自己的活动。警方说，有些人的活动非常明目张胆，甚至会在游船上举办聚会，在位于市中心的莫斯科河上活动。
Whatever the benefits of such an arrangement inside Russia, thieves in law remain a menace in émigré communities abroad, said Sergei Kanev, a reporter covering organized crime at the newspaper Novaya Gazeta.
《新报》(Novaya Gazeta)报道有组织犯罪的记者谢尔盖·卡涅夫(Sergei Kanev)说，不论俄罗斯境内的这种安排有何好处，对于国外的移民社区来说，律贼仍然是个威胁。
“Even in America the thieves have a huge influence on former Soviet immigrants,” he said. “Criminal threads still tie them together. All their relatives are here in Russia. A thief might say, ‘Play along, or your uncle and aunt will get it.’ ”
“即便在美国，这些罪犯对前苏联移民的影响都非常大，”他说，“犯罪网络仍然把他们联系在了一起。他们所有的亲属都在俄罗斯。坏人或许会说，‘合作吧，否则你的叔叔或阿姨就会遭殃。’”
Mr. Tokhtakhounov, however, contested the F.B.I.’s characterization of him. He has been married, though he is now single. The police outside Russia, he said, often mistake his penchant for flashy clothes and high-priced meals for the lifestyle of a mobster.
然而，托赫塔霍乌诺夫质疑了美国联邦调查局(FBI)对他的描述。他曾结过婚，不过他现在是单身。他说，俄罗斯之外的警察经常因为他偏好鲜亮服装和高价饮食的生活方式而把他当成一名犯罪集团成员。
American authorities say in the recent case that Mr. Tokhtakhounov served as a ringleader along with two others, Vadim Trincher and Anatoly Golubchik, of one of two overlapping illegal gambling operations. One operation, prosecutors say, was led in part by the scion of a New York art dealing family, Hillel Nahmad, which hosted poker games for celebrities and financial titans in New York and Los Angeles.
美国当局称，在最近的案件中，托赫塔霍乌诺夫是两个重叠的非法赌博组织之一的主谋，他还有两名共犯，名叫瓦季姆·特林彻(Vadim Trincher)和阿纳托利·戈卢布奇克(Anatoly Golubchik)。检察官称，其中一个组织，部分是由一个纽约艺术品交易家族的继承人希勒尔·纳麦德(Hillel Nahmad)牵头，这个组织在纽约和洛杉矶举办了有名人和金融巨子参加的扑克赌局。
In the other operation, Mr. Tokhtakhounov is accused of funneling Russian oligarchs’ losses to shell companies in Cyprus, disguised as phony loans. The scheme, prosecutors say, laundered more than $50 million.
在另一个组织里，托赫塔霍乌诺夫被指控将俄罗斯寡头集团的损失伪装成贷款转移到塞浦路斯的空壳公司。检察官称，这一洗钱案件涉款超过5000万美元。
All the suspects have pleaded not guilty except Mr. Tokhtakhounov, who has not left Russia for a decade, he said, because of his fugitive status. Lawyers for Mr. Golubchik, Mr. Trincher and Mr. Nahmad said their clients were wrongly charged. The lawyer for Mr. Nahmad, Benjamin Brafman, said his client had never met or spoken to Mr. Tokhtakhounov, and even the indictment does not claim that.
托赫塔霍乌诺夫之外的所有嫌疑犯都在法庭上声称自己无罪。他说，自己已经10年没离开俄罗斯了，原因就是他的逃亡者身份。戈卢布奇克、特林彻和纳麦德的律师称，对他们客户的指控是错误的。纳麦德的律师本杰明·布拉夫曼(Benjamin Brafman)说，他的客户从未与托赫塔霍乌诺夫会面或交谈过，就连起诉书也没有否认这一点。
Mr. Tokhtakhounov attributed his latest troubles to American agents’ eavesdropping on his phone calls with Mr. Trincher and Mr. Golubchik when he was placing bets, up to $20,000 on individual soccer games. The bets were his own, he said, not those of gambling clients; the agents misinterpreted his Russian slang.
托赫塔霍乌诺夫把自己最近的麻烦归咎于美国特工窃听了他与特林彻和戈卢布奇克之间的电话，当时他正在下注，每场足球比赛的赌注最高达到2万美元。他说，赌注都是他自己压的，而不是来自赌博客户，特工误译了他的俄罗斯俚语。
“I speak openly on the phone,” he said, waving his gold-colored clamshell Samsung. “That is my whole problem.”
“我在电话里什么都说，”他挥舞着自己金色的三星(Samsung)翻盖手机说。“这就是我的全部问题。”
“If I’m a dealer, catch me,” he said. “They just catch my words. Ah ha! An organizer. How could I organize gambling in America? It’s impossible. And why would I? This is not my business.”
“如果我是个贩子，那就抓我吧，”他说，“他们可抓住我说的话了。啊哈！说我是个组织者。我怎么可能组织一场在美国的赌博呢？这不可能。我为什么要干这个呢？这和我没有关系。”
As he tells it, he is a real estate investor in Moscow, an organizer of Russian pop concerts and fashion shows, and now a writer. “I live peacefully on this business and raise my children,” he said.
按他所言，他是莫斯科的一名房地产投资商和一名俄罗斯流行音乐会和时装表演的组织者，现在又成了一名作家。“我靠着这些生意和平地生活着，并抚养着我的孩子们，”他说。
After the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City, the F.B.I. said he had directed a scheme to secure a gold medal for the top Russian pairs skaters and for the top ice dancers representing France, one of whom was a Russian. The Russian pairs skaters won the gold, but after questions were raised about the judging, the Olympic committee awarded duplicate gold medals to the second-place Canadian team.
在2002年盐湖城奥运会之后，FBI称他曾经导演了一场阴谋，以帮助俄罗斯的头号双人滑选手和代表法国的冰舞选手（其中有一人是俄罗斯人）获得金牌。那对俄罗斯双人滑选手获得了金牌，但在比赛评判遭到质疑后，奥委会为第二名的加拿大选手补发了并列金牌。
The authorities in Italy, where he then lived, detained him briefly on the charges but released him to Russia rather than extradite him to the United States.
当时他住在意大利，意大利当局曾依照指控短暂拘捕了他，随后把他放回了俄罗斯，并未将他引渡到美国。
His Interpol wanted poster accuses him of “bribery in sport contests,” fraud and other malfeasance and says he is affiliated with Semyon Y. Mogilevich, a man the American authorities consider a Russian Mafia godfather who is on the F.B.I.’s Ten Most Wanted list. Mr. Mogilevich also lives freely in Russia.
国际刑警组织(Interpol)在他的通缉海报上指控他“在体育比赛中行贿”，并犯有欺诈和其他违法行为，并称他与谢苗·Y·莫吉列维奇(Semyon Y. Mogilevich)有关，此人被美国当局认为是一名俄罗斯黑手党教父，位列FBI十大通缉要犯(F.B.I.’s Ten Most Wanted list)之一。莫吉列维奇也在俄罗斯自由地生活着。
Mr. Tokhtakhounov denied knowing Mr. Mogilevich.
托赫塔霍乌诺夫否认认识莫吉列维奇。
But he glumly recounted friendships with several others reputed to be Mafia leaders, including those known by the nicknames Grandpa Hassan and Yaponchik, or the Little Japanese, who were killed in recent years in two rare occurrences of mob violence. They were shot by snipers while leaving Moscow restaurants after meals.
但他闷闷不乐地陈述了与其他几名据说是黑手党领袖人物的友谊，包括那些以“哈桑大爷”(Grandpa Hassan)和“小日本”(Yaponchik)之类绰号闻名的人，这两人在近年来的两次罕见的犯罪集团暴力事件中被杀。他们都是在莫斯科的餐厅吃饭后离开时被狙击手射杀的。
At the Palazzo Ducale, as Mr. Tokhtakhounov’s own guard waited, he denied, line by line, the allegations against him. Three waiters continually circled, topping off the water glasses until one wandered too close during conversation and Mr. Tokhtakhounov told him to go away.
在公爵府餐厅，托赫塔霍乌诺夫的个人保镖正在等着他，他则逐一否认了对于他的指控。三名侍者不停地在他身边转，把水加满，直到其中一人在谈话期间走得太近，托赫塔霍乌诺夫叫他走开。
“Alimzhan,” the waiter responded, “Don’t worry, you know us: we’re deaf.”
“阿利姆然，”这名侍者答道，“别担心，你知道我们——我们什么都没听见。”