MOSCOW — “I am declaring a hunger strike starting Sept. 23. I refuse to take part in slave labor in the camp until the penal colony authorities start to conduct themselves in accordance with laws and start treating women inmates like people rather than cattle.” After a year-and-a-half behind bars, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova has given up her struggle to keep the peace and has declared war on her jailers.  But only after they threatened to kill her.
莫斯科——“我宣布从9月23日开始进行绝食抗议。我拒绝在劳役营里像奴隶一样劳动，除非劳役营当局开始依法行事，并且开始把女囚当作人类而非牲口一样对待。”已经被关押了一年半的娜杰日达·托罗克尼科娃(Nadezhda Tolokonnikova)不再竭力保持平和，而是向看守她的人宣战。不过她也是在他们威胁要杀死她之后才爆发的。
Tolokonnikova is one of two members of the punk group Pussy Riot who are serving two-year sentences for lip-syncing and playing air guitar for 40 seconds in a peaceful protest in the largest Moscow cathedral. Ever since they were transported to penal colonies a bit less than a year ago, Tolokonnikova and the other jailed Pussy Riot member, Maria Alekhina, have assumed different roles in public, when they have spoken out, and in their private behavior behind bars.
因为在莫斯科最大的教堂举行和平抗议时，做了一段40秒的对口型演唱和假弹吉他的表演，朋克乐队Pussy Riot的两名成员被判监禁两年，托罗克尼科娃就是其中之一。将近一年前，她和另外一名成为阶下囚的伙伴玛丽亚·阿列希娜(Maria Alyokhina)被移送到了劳役营，自从那时起，两人在公开发言时给人留下的印象，以及在囹圄之中的个人举止都有所不同。
Alekhina has become a vocal advocate for prisoners’ rights, a sort of jailhouse lawyer who has exposed numerous violations, filed copious complaints, and, in May, held an 11-day hunger strike that succeeded in changing conditions in her penal colony. But the authorities at the colony got the last word by securing her transfer to a different part of the country.
阿列希娜成了一个直言不讳的囚犯权利倡导者，在某种程度上就像是一个狱中的法律行家：她曝光了大量违规行为，进行过数不胜数的投诉，并在今年5月进行了一次为期11天的绝食抗议。这次抗议取得了成功，令其所在劳役营的条件得到了改善。但劳役营当局了解了这件事，把她转移到了其他地区。
Tolokonnikova has also been an effective public speaker even while incarcerated, but she has spoken out on politics and freedom in general rather than prisoners’ rights. When I visited her three months ago, she insisted she simply wanted to have the time behind bars to go faster, and breaking up the monotony with court hearings or protests only served to slow time down. She did not want to discuss many of the details of penal-colony life, at least as long as she was there — to avoid more attention from the prison administration. And there were other things that neither she nor other women inmates want to discuss, because they are humiliating.
托罗克尼科娃同样是一个有力的公开发言者，即便她正身陷囹圄。但是她的发言只关乎广泛的政治和自由，而非囚犯的权利。三个月前，我去探望她时，她表示，她只是想让被关押的时间快点过去，法院的听证会或者抗议活动虽然可以打破沉寂，但却只会让时间过得更慢。她不愿过多地讨论劳役营生活的细节，至少在被放出去之前是这样——以免招来监狱管理部门更多的关注。此外，还有一些事情是她和其他女囚都不想提及的，因为羞于启齿。
Tolokonnikova not only tried to adjust to life in the penal colony but she even tried to heed the criticism levied at her by colony representatives during a parole hearing. She was criticized for never taking part in such activities as beauty or singing contests, so she signed up to sing — only to be stymied in her attempts to go to the clubhouse to rehearse. Whatever she did, it seemed, the harassment would only intensify.
托罗克尼科娃不仅努力适应劳役营的生活，甚至还在假释听证会期间，努力听取来自劳役营代表的批评意见。那些人批评她从未参加过选美或者歌唱比赛等活动，于是她就报名去唱歌——结果在她试图去俱乐部排练时却受到阻挠。无论她做什么，骚扰似乎都只会加剧。
Three weeks ago, she finally had had too much. She had been suffering from severe chronic headaches, a lifelong ailment exacerbated by the long hours working while sitting down. Chronic sleep deprivation was affecting her as well as the other inmates. On Aug. 30, Tolokonnikova went to see the deputy director of the penal colony, and asked him to guarantee all women on her work shift eight hours of sleep a night.
三个星期前，她终于忍无可忍了。她一直患有严重的慢性头痛，这种病痛一生都在伴随她，会因为久坐劳作而加剧。长期被剥夺睡眠令她和其他女囚都承受着痛苦。8月30日，托罗克尼科娃找到劳役营副主任，请求他保证她所在工作班次的所有女囚，每晚都有8小时睡眠时间。
“This would mean reducing the workday from 16 to 12 hours,” she writes in a letter from prison that was released on Monday. The deputy director answered that he would cut the shift even further: to the legally mandated eight hours. This, however, would mean that the women would be unable to fulfill their daily production requirements (they sew police uniforms) and would be penalized by having their privileges taken away and, quite possibly, beaten.
她在一封从狱中寄出的信里写道，“这就意味着把每天的工作时间从16小时缩减到12小时。”周一，这封信被公之于众。副主任答复说，他会对工作时间进行更大幅度的缩减：按照法律规定，让她们每天工作8小时。不过，这意味着这些女囚会因达不到每天的产量要求（她们的工作是缝制警服）而受到惩罚，她们的某些权利会被剥夺，还很有可能遭到毒打。
“And he concluded, ‘If they learn that this happened because of you, then I can tell you that things will never be bad for you again — because things are never bad in the afterlife.’ ”
“他最后说，‘假如她们知道这件事因你而起，我跟你说，那你就可以解脱了——因为在来世不会有不好的事情发生。’”
“Over the next few weeks conditions in the factory grew intolerable,” writes Tolokonnikova. “Inmates who have ties to the administration have been pushing others to take care of me: ‘You have been penalized by having your tea, food, bathroom and smoking privileges taken away for a week. And this will go on forever if you don’t start acting different toward new inmates, especially Tolokonnikova — the way you were treated when you were new. Were you beaten? Yes you were? Were your months ripped apart? Yes, they were. Go ahead, beat the crap out of them. You will not be punished forthat.’ ”
“随后的几个星期，工厂里的情况变得越来越难以忍受，”托罗克尼科娃写道。“和管理者关系密切的囚犯逼迫其他囚犯‘关照’我：‘你已经受过惩罚了，一个星期都没有喝茶、吃东西、洗澡、抽烟的特别待遇。如果你不把对待新犯人——尤其是托罗克尼科娃的方式改一改，如果不拿你还是新犯人时别人对待你的方式来对待她们，惩罚就会一直继续下去。你们挨过打吗，被打过吧？有没有被打得腮帮子都撕破了，有吧？尽管打吧，把她们连屎都打出来。你们不会因此受处罚的。’”
Tolokonnikova realized that the only way to protect herself was to go public. She has filed complaints with police and judicial authorities saying that she has been threatened with murder. She has declared a hunger strike, demanding, among other things, a transfer to a different colony. And she has written a four-page letter detailing the conditions in the colony, including those no one ever describes.
托罗克尼科娃意识到，能保护自己的唯一方式就是把事情公开。她已经向警方和司法当局投诉说，有人扬言要谋杀她。她还宣布进行绝食抗议，诉求之一是把她转移到其他劳役营。此外，她写了一封四页长的信，详细描述了劳役营的情况，其中有些情形是其他人从未提及的。
“Life in the colony is constructed in such a way as to make the inmate feel like a filthy animal who has no rights. The barracks have washrooms, but in the interests of punishing and reforming inmates, the administration has created a single, colony-wide washroom that fits five people and the entire population — 800 people — have to go there to wash their private parts. We are not allowed to do this in the washrooms in our barracks, because that would be too convenient. The colony-wide washroom is invariably crowded and the gals with their basins step all over one another in a rush to wash.  … We have the right to wash our hair once a week. But this bath day is frequently canceled because the water pump has broken or a pipe is backed up. Sometimes our barracks could not wash for two or three weeks running.
“劳役营的生活是以这样一种方式构建的：它让犯人觉得自己是肮脏的牲畜，没有任何权利可言。我们的牢房里有洗手间，但为了惩罚和改造囚犯，管理部门单独盖了一间能容下五个人的洗手间，给整个劳役营共用，而营里总共800名犯人，必须要去那里清洗自己的私处。他们不允许我们在牢房的洗手间里做这件事，因为那样就太方便了。那个全营共用的洗手间总是拥挤不堪，去清洗的女孩们端着盆子冲上去，挤成一团，人踩人……我们每个星期可以在洗澡日洗一次头发，但洗澡日常常因为水泵坏了或者管道堵了而被取消。在牢房里有时候两三个星期都没办法清洗。
“When the pipes get clogged, urine bursts forth from the washrooms and feces fly. We have learned to clean the sewage pipes ourselves, but the results do not last long: the pipes get backed up again. The colony does not have a cable for cleaning pipes. We can wash our clothes once a week, in a small room with three faucets from which cold water drips.
“当管道堵塞时，洗手间里屎尿乱溅。我们已经学会了自己清理下水道，但清理的成果维持不了多久：管道很快就会再次堵住。劳役营里没有清理管道所需的钢索。我们每个星期可以在一个小房间里洗一次衣服，那里有三个水龙头，只能滴滴答答地流出冷水。
‘‘It is probably also in the interests of reform that inmates are given only stale bread, only milk that has been diluted with copious amounts of water, only rancid porridge, and only rotten potatoes. All this summer they kept bringing wholesale quantities of sacks of slimy blackened potatoes, and this was what we were fed.’’
“或许也是出于改造犯人的需要，他们只给犯人吃不新鲜的面包、大量掺水的牛奶、馊掉的稀饭和烂掉的土豆。整个夏天，他们整麻袋地批量购进已经发黏的黑乎乎的土豆，我们吃的就是这个。”
She also wrote that she should have gone on hunger strike months ago.
她还在信中表示，几个月前她就应该绝食抗议。