MOSCOW — Before he went to prison 10 years ago, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was Russia’s richest man, worth maybe $15 billion. Set free this month, he could only guess at his vastly depleted, but still formidable, wealth.
莫斯科——在10年前他还没入狱时，米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)曾是俄罗斯的首富，身价或许有150亿美元（约合909亿元人民币）。本月重获自由后，对于自己所剩的财富他只能猜测，这些年来这些财富消耗了很多，但总额依然惊人。
“I have no idea about my financial situation,” he told journalists in Berlin, where he was whisked on a private plane straight from a Russian penal colony.
“我完全不知道我的财务状况，”他在柏林对记者说。他在离开俄罗斯的一处劳役营之后，直接由一架私人飞机匆匆送往了柏林。
He was not being coy. As Russian prosecutors began dismantling his company, Mr. Khodorkovsky’s lawyers set about safeguarding his main asset, shares in the Yukos oil company. His lawyers did such a good job entangling billions of dollars in offshore vehicles outside of Russia, mostly in the Netherlands, that it is far from clear when or if Mr. Khodorkovsky will ever gain access to what is left of his fortune.
他并非惺惺作态。当俄罗斯检察官开始拆分他的公司时，霍多尔科夫斯基的律师们就开始全力捍卫他的主要资产——尤科斯石油公司(Yukos Oil)的股份。他的律师们十分出色地将数十亿美元的资产藏到了俄罗斯以外的离岸工具中（多数在荷兰），以至于霍多尔科夫斯基何时能拿到他剩余的财富，甚至究竟能不能拿到，都完全不清楚。
The money is now under the control of Dutch foundations, run by boards known by the benign, if Kafkaesque, term of benevolent interveners.
这些资产如今都在荷兰基金会的掌控之中，其理事会在运作时遵循无因管理原则。这种运作方式仿佛有些卡夫卡小说似的荒谬意味。
There is little doubt that Mr. Khodorkovsky still has tens of millions of dollars in other investments. He is not going to go hungry. In a news conference after his release, he said he had “enough money to make a living.” Striking a philosophical note, he also said he was certainly better off than most of his fellow convicts.
毫无疑问，霍多尔科夫斯基还拥有价值千万美元的其他投资项目，他绝不会挨饿。在获释后的一场新闻发布会上，他表示有“足够的钱过日子”。霍多尔科夫斯基还颇有哲理意味地说，他肯定比多数同他一样坐牢的囚犯过得好。
But that is a pittance compared with what could still be his personal stake in what is left of Yukos, once one of the world’s largest oil companies, now bankrupt. There may be as much as $920 million from the sale of the company’s overseas assets, but it is locked up in the Dutch foundations.
但与他在尤科斯公司剩余资产中的个人持股相比，这些钱简直微不足道。尤科斯曾是世界最大的石油公司之一，如今已破产。出售尤科斯海外资产的所得可能高达9.2亿美元，但这些钱如今都困在荷兰的基金里。
Control of these legal entities, called stichtings in Dutch law, is in the hands of independent boards not beholden even to the beneficiaries, possibly including Mr. Khodorkovsky. The boards are wholly autonomous, run by lawyers and former oil company executives who have found a second career in the corporate afterlife of Yukos.
这些法律实体在荷兰法律中称为“stichtings”，由独立的理事会控制，理事会甚至无需对受益人负责。受益人中可能包括霍多尔科夫斯基。理事会由律师和前石油公司的高管管理，完全独立行使权力。这些高管在尤科斯破产后，又在从尤科斯基础上脱胎建立的企业中重新谋得了职位。
The legal insulation of these foundations means that not only will Mr. Khodorkovsky have to wait before seeing any proceeds, but he cannot offer assurances to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia or anyone else about how this legal process will unfold. Looming in the future is the possibility of protracted legal battles with Russia and the Russian state oil company Rosneft.
这些基金受到的法律保护不仅意味着霍多尔科夫斯基本人还要再等一段时间才能看到任何收益，还意味着他无法向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)或其他任何人保证，相关法律程序将如何进展。未来，俄罗斯政府，以及俄罗斯国有的俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)，可能面临一场旷日持久的法律大战。
“This happened a year and a half after Khodorkovsky was arrested, and he didn’t have a hand in it and didn’t even know about it,” said Bruce K. Misamore, the former chief financial officer for Yukos. “We’ve been fighting to protect those assets for eventual distribution to shareholders of Yukos.”
“这事发生在霍多尔科夫斯基被捕一年半以后，他丝毫没有参与，甚至并不知晓，”尤科斯前首席财务官布鲁斯·K·米萨莫尔(Bruce K. Misamore)说。“我们一直在努力保护这些财产，以便最终分配给尤科斯的股东。”
He and others emphasized those shareholders also included pension and mutual funds that invested in Yukos. “We will disburse the funds at the first opportunity,” Mr. Misamore said, but that could be many years from now because of pending lawsuits.
米萨莫尔等人强调，这些股东中包括了投资尤科斯的养老基金和共同基金。米萨莫尔说，“我们会第一时间兑付这些基金。”但由于有案件尚未结案，因此这可能要等上很多年。
Without the efforts of the benevolent interveners, all the shareholders including Mr. Khodorkovsky would most likely have been wiped out, fully absorbed into Rosneft.
如果那些无因管理人没有采取任何行动，包括霍多尔科夫斯基在内的股东很有可能已被剔除，其股份完全由俄罗斯石油公司吸纳。
While they have a fiduciary responsibility to move as quickly as possible, the legal process has been slow. A lawsuit to recoup $100 billion from the bankruptcy of Yukos in the European Court of Human Rights dragged on for seven years, ending inconclusively.
他们虽然承担着信托责任，应尽快行动，但法律程序却一直非常缓慢。一项诉至欧洲人权法院(European Court of Human Rights)的案件，要求追索尤科斯破产损失的1000亿美元。案件持续了七年，但最终并无定论。
A new suit filed in May by the benevolent interveners could last as long. Cases are also pending in Britain and the Netherlands.
今年5月份由这些无因管理人提起的一项新诉讼可能也会需要那么长时间。在英国和荷兰，也有相关案件尚未审结。
The five trustees on each board of the two foundations and their lawyers, deduct “a few million” a year for legal fees and for a “market-based compensation” as directors, Mr. Misamore said.
米萨莫尔称，理事及他们的律师（两家基金会的理事会里，各有五名受托人），每年会收取“几百万”的法律费用和他们担任理事“基于市场标准的酬劳”。
By law, the Dutch foundations can disburse no money until the lawsuits are resolved. The benevolent interveners are pursuing cases around the world and defending against claims from Russian state-controlled companies. They recently won $180 million from a subsidiary of the Russian state oil company in a case in federal court in New York.
依据法律，这些荷兰基金在诉讼终结之前，不能做出任何偿付。这些无因管理人正在世界各地处理不同的案件，防止俄罗斯国有公司取得尤科斯的资产。他们最近在纽约联邦法院审理的一个案件中，从俄罗斯石油公司的一家子公司赢得了1.8亿美元。
The strategy can be profitable for years to come, though in this phase of the Yukos saga the legal fees run high, Mr. Misamore conceded. “This is the nature of the system,” he said. “The lawyers always win.”
这种策略从长期来看或许是有益的，但米萨莫尔承认，在尤科斯事件漫长进程的当前阶段，相关的法律费用高得惊人。“这就是法律体系的本质，”他说。“得利的总是律师。”
Prison, Mr. Khodorkovsky said, had changed his thinking. Once a member of the youth wing of the Communist Party, he made his first fortune in a scheme allowing Soviet enterprises to convert their worthless ruble bank accounts into cash.
霍多尔科夫斯基说，监狱已经改变了他的思考方式。他曾是共产党青年团的成员，他所酝酿的商业方案让苏联企业家将他们手上毫无价值的卢布银行账号成功兑现，靠这赚得了第一桶金。
Later, he bought privatized oil fields for a pittance, joining the ranks of the world’s richest men on the back of assets built over decades by Communists. Prison, he said, made him think about people and not the “industrial scrap” he fought so fiercely for before.
后来，他以极低的价格买下了私有化的油田，坐拥苏联共产党数十年间建造的资产，跻身世界首富的行列。他说，监狱让他开始考虑人，而不是他曾如此激烈争夺的“工业废料”。
At the news conference after his release, Mr. Khodorkovsky said he intended to focus now on human rights rather than business and said he was still trying to catch up on the details of his finances.
在获释后的新闻发布会上，霍多尔科夫斯基表示，他现在打算关注人权，而不是商业。还说，他还在努力摸清具体的财务状况。
“I won’t sin against the truth if I say I have no idea about my financial situation,” he said. “I met only one of my former partners so far. Not because we stopped being friends, but because we stopped doing business together. I think I will deal with this situation.”
“真实情况就是，我真的不知道我的财务状况，这不是在骗人，”他说。“到现在我只见过一位从前的商业伙伴。不是因为我们不再是朋友了，而是因为我们不再一起做生意了。我想，我会处理这个情况。”