WASHINGTON — Russia has roughly doubled the number of its battalions near the Ukrainian border, Western officials said Monday, and could respond to the Kiev government’s gains there by launching a cross-border incursion with little or no warning.
华盛顿——西方官员周一表示，俄罗斯把在乌克兰边境附近的军队增加了大约一倍，可以在不明确警告或完全不警告的情况下，越过边境发动袭击，以此回应基辅政府在那里获得的优势。
Over the past several weeks, Russia has built up 17 battalions — totaling 19,000 to 21,000 troops, according to one Western estimate — into a battle-ready force of infantry, armor, artillery and air defense within a few miles of the border. In addition, it has vastly expanded its firepower, increasing the number of advanced surface-to-air missile units to 14 from eight, and deploying more than 30 artillery batteries, according to the officials.
过去几周，俄罗斯在距离边境几英里的地方用17个营——据西方估算总兵力可能在1.9到2.1万——组成了一支随时可以投入战斗的武装力量，其中包含步兵、装甲部队、火炮和防空部队。此外，前述官员表示，俄罗斯还大幅度增强了火力配备，把先进的地对空导弹部队从8个增加到了14个，并部署了30多个炮兵连。
The Kremlin’s intentions in increasing its military abilities remain unclear. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia could be seeking to pressure Ukraine and the United States to agree to a political settlement that would grant the eastern provinces of Ukraine maximum autonomy. But Mr. Putin, Western officials fear, may also be developing the option to intervene more directly if it appears that the pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine are on the verge of defeat.
克里姆林宫增兵的目的尚不明确。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)可能是希望通过此举对乌克兰和美国施压，使他们同意赋予乌克兰东部省份最大限度自治权的政治解决方案。但是，西方官员担心，在乌克兰亲俄分裂分子即将溃败的情况下，普京可能会考虑更直接地进行干预。
American intelligence experts say that the advance by Ukrainian government forces on Donetsk and other steps that the Ukrainian government is taking to regain territory in the east from the separatists might prompt Mr. Putin to send his forces across the border under the guise of a “peacekeeping operation.”
美国情报专家表示，鉴于乌克兰政府军队在顿涅茨克做出进一步举动，以及乌克兰政府为了从分裂分子手中夺回东部领土而采取的其他措施，普京可能会以“维和行动”为幌子，派兵前往乌克兰。
“That’s a very real option,” a senior Defense Department official said on Monday. “And should Putin decide, he could do that with little or no notice. We just don’t know what he’s thinking.”
“这是很有可能的，”一名高级国防部官员周一表示。“一旦普京作出决定，他就能在几乎不发出警告的情况下这样做。我们就是不知道他的想法。”
Another senior American official added, “The more success Ukrainian forces have, the more pressure there is on Moscow to escalate.”
另一名高级美国官员还说，“乌克兰军队取得越大的成功，莫斯科就会受到更大压力，要增强军事力量。”
Adding to the concern, the buildup coincides with a newly announced Russian air force and air defense exercise. When it intervened in Crimea this year, Russia used a military exercise to mask its preparations.
除了增兵以外，俄罗斯最近还宣布要进行空军和防空军事演习。今年，俄罗斯在干预克里米亚时，就曾利用军演来掩饰自己的准备工作。
The Russian moves suggest that the Kremlin and the West are each responding to the standoff over Ukraine by turning to the tools they know best.
俄罗斯的举动表明，克里姆林宫和西方都开始使用它们最擅长的手段来应对乌克兰的僵局。
For President Obama and European leaders, the tool is calibrated economic sanctions, targeted to affect banks close to the Kremlin or narrow subsectors of the Russian economy, like Russia’s long-term ability to develop new Arctic, deep sea and shale oil reserves.
奥巴马总统和欧洲领导人的手段是精心安排的经济制裁。这些制裁措施旨在影响与克里姆林宫关系密切的银行，或者对俄罗斯经济的某些行业进行限制，比如俄罗斯在长远上开发极地、深海和页岩油储备的能力。
But for Mr. Putin, the tool is the Kremlin’s ability to marshal raw military power and, increasingly, its willingness to use it.
而普京的手段就是，克里姆林宫有能力集聚起军事力量，并越来越显示出它有意使用这种力量。
Less than a week after the Obama administration and European nations announced new sanctions, the Kremlin has expanded its military ability to provide cover fire for the separatists by firing artillery and rockets across the border into Ukraine. And it holds out the possibility of intervening directly.
在奥巴马政府和欧洲国家宣布新制裁措施不到一周后，克里姆林宫就通过向乌克兰境内发射炮弹和火箭弹为分裂分子提供掩护，实现自己的军事能力的延伸。而它始终没有排除直接进行干预的可能性。
Wesley K. Clark, the retired general and former NATO commander, said that Mr. Putin appeared to have put the pieces in place for a major military intervention by massing Russia forces near the border, arming separatist groups, infiltrating operatives, conducting exercises to practice the military’s ability to coordinate fire and supporting the self-proclaimed mayor of Luhansk, who has called for the Russian military to come to the separatists’ aid.
退役将军、前北约(NATO)指挥官韦斯利·K·克拉克(Wesley K. Clark)表示，普京看起来已经做好了大举出兵干预的准备——在边境附近集结俄罗斯部队，为分裂组织提供武器，安排特工潜入敌方，进行演习，锻炼军队协调作战的能力，并为自封的卢甘斯克市长提供支持，这名市长呼吁俄罗斯军队前来帮助分裂分子。
But the risks to Mr. Putin of intervening, General Clark noted, include tougher Western economic sanctions, resistance by the Ukrainian forces and Western military support for the Kiev government.
但克拉克指出，普京如果进行干预，将面临很多风险，比如西方将实施更严厉的经济制裁，还会遭到乌克兰军队的抵抗，西方也会为基辅政府提供武力支持。
“He has set the military and political conditions for what he believes could be a successful intervention,” General Clark said. “But he still doesn’t seem to have made the political decision to do this, perhaps because he recognizes that the risks after an intervention are incalculable.”
“他已经设定了他所认为的成功干预的军事及政治条件，”克拉克说。“但他似乎没有做出采取行动的政治决定，这或许是因为他认识到，出手干预后，将面临不可估量的风险。”
If Mr. Putin did decide to intervene, one plausible outcome highlighted by General Clark and Phillip A. Karber, a former Pentagon official, is the possibility of a “peacekeeping” intervention at the request of the Ukrainian separatists whom Moscow has been arming and supporting politically.
克拉克和前五角大楼(Pentagon)官员菲利普·A·卡伯(Phillip A. Karber)指出，如果普京决定进行干预，一个看似合理的结果是，在乌克兰分裂分子的要求下，俄罗斯可能会开展“维和”干预行动，莫斯科方面一直在为这些分裂分子提供武器及政治支持。
In a closed-door briefing for Congress last month, Mr. Karber noted that Russian military vehicles bearing the Russian emblem for peacekeeping forces had been positioned close to Ukraine.
卡伯在国会(Congress)上个月举行的闭门会议中提到，俄罗斯已经在乌克兰附近部署带有俄罗斯维和部队标志的军车。
Amateur video posted on YouTube and Twitter appears to show some of these vehicles operating inside Ukraine.
YouTube和Twitter上一些由目击者拍摄的视频貌似显示，其中一些车辆在乌克兰境内行动。
Several American officials confirmed that Russian armored vehicles and trucks with the peacekeeping insignia had been seen on Russia territory near Ukraine. But these officials said that Western intelligence had no independent confirmation that they had crossed into Ukraine.
一些美国官员确认，确实能够看到带有维和部队标志的俄罗斯装甲车和卡车出现在乌克兰附近的俄罗斯领土上。但这些官员表示，西方情报机构没有独立的消息来源证实这些车辆已经进入乌克兰。
Strikingly, the White House has been taking the idea of a Russian “peacekeeping” intervention seriously.
很明显，白宫已经开始认真对待俄罗斯“维和”干预的想法。