KHOTKOVO, Russia — In the early days of 1992, prices here exploded by an average of 350 percent as post-Communist Russia crash-landed into a free market economy. Six years later, in August 1998, prices again gyrated wildly after the Russian government devalued the ruble and defaulted on its debts.
俄罗斯霍季科沃——1992年初，随着后共产主义时代的俄罗斯突然转向自由市场经济，这里的物价爆炸式地平均上涨了350%。六年后的1998年8月，当俄罗斯政府将卢布贬值并决定债务违约后，物价再次疯涨。
In comparison, this year’s plunge in the value of the ruble seems positively tame, which may explain the relative stoicism among shoppers here as they shuffled along snow-covered paths, making the rounds of the shops and getting ready for the long holiday season.
相比之下，今年的卢布贬值似乎相当温和。这或许解释了本地消费者的相对隐忍。他们步履缓慢地走在白雪覆盖的路上，进行一轮又一轮的采购，为漫长的假日季做准备。
That isn’t to say that inflation — now above 10 percent — is not on everyone’s mind. Several store managers said the same thing: Prices have been going up with each delivery. In a store in the nearby village of Akhtyrka, the sales clerk advised a couple of elderly shoppers to come back later, after she had updated the price list.
这并不是说，大家不关心眼下已高过10%的通货膨胀。几名店铺管理人员谈到了同一点：到货的价格一次比一次高。在附近的阿赫特尔卡村的一家商店里，售货员建议几名上了年纪的消费者晚些时候再来，等自己更新了价目表之后。
For consumers and retailers alike, Russia’s latest economic crisis has come in stages. The first impact was felt last summer, when Russia retaliated against the West for Ukraine-related sanctions by imposing a ban on food imports from the United States, the European Union and several other trading partners. The second blow came after the value of the ruble took a deep plunge in mid-December, before bouncing back somewhat. A third is expected as rising interest rates choke off credit.
对消费者和零售商而言，俄罗斯最近这场经济危机是分阶段上演的。第一波影响于今年夏天显现出来。当时，俄罗斯发布禁令，不允许从美国、欧盟和其他几个贸易伙伴进口食品，以此报复西方因乌克兰问题实行的制裁。第二记重创出现在12月中旬卢布暴跌之后，尽管币值随后稍稍回升。随着不断攀升的利率阻碍信贷活动，预计第三波影响即将袭来。
Here in Khotkovo, a town of 23,000 people 60 kilometers, or about 35 miles, northeast of Moscow, tracking the impact of the self-imposed sanctions is like proving a negative. A variety of goods — from basmati rice to imported hard cheeses — have simply vanished, leaving consumers with fewer and less desirable choices.
人口2.3万的霍季科沃位于莫斯科的东北方向，距离首都60公里。在这里，追踪俄罗斯自我施加制裁造成的影响，就像证明一个否定命题一样。从印度香米到进口硬奶酪的各种商品完全消失了，可供消费者选择的货品在变少、变差。
A store on the main square that specializes in food from Belarus, Russia’s western neighbor and an ally of sorts, dodged the first bullet. Belarus never imposed sanctions, but now the drop in the value of the ruble is having an effect, said the store’s manager, who declined to give his name.
在城里的主广场上，一家白俄罗斯食品专卖店躲过了第一劫。在诸多事务上，西边的邻国白俄罗斯都是俄罗斯的盟友，也从未对俄实行制裁。但现在，这家商店的经理称，卢布贬值的影响正在显现。这名经理拒绝透露姓名。
He estimated that prices had over all increased 10 percent to 15 percent in the last month, and like others, he didn’t dare venture a prediction for 2015.
他估计，物价上个月总体上涨了10%到15%。和其他人一样，他也不敢大胆预测2015年的情况。
After a decade of sustained economic growth, Russian consumers are more resilient than they were in 1992 or 1998, and as they shop for their traditional New Year’s Eve feasts, many are shrugging off the higher prices.
在经济持续增长了十年后，俄罗斯消费者的适应能力比1992年和1998年更强。在为传统的新年夜大餐进行采购时，他们中的许多人并没有理会高物价。
Housewives standing in line at a meat counter said they were prepared to make do with less. Marina, who declined to give her last name, said that beef prices — now at 600 rubles a kilo (roughly $5.40 a pound) — had probably gone up at least 25 percent but that this wouldn’t stop her from serving it for the traditional New Year’s Eve feast. “We’ll manage,” she said.
在一座肉制品柜台排队的家庭主妇表示，她们准备节俭度日。不愿透露姓氏的玛丽娜(Marina)说，现在600卢布（约合65元人民币）一公斤的牛肉价格，大概涨了至少25%，但这也不会阻止她在新年夜的传统筵席上端上牛肉。“我们会应付过去的，”她说。
Several shopkeepers said they were running through old stocks, which would explain why such anomalies as Finnish dumplings or Italian coffee can still be found on the shelves. Others explain that importers have figured out ways around the ban, bringing European goods through Belarus, where they are relabeled and brought across the border to Russia. Countries like Brazil have also stepped up exports to Russia, although typically at higher prices.
几名店主表示，他们卖的是原来的存货。这可能解释了为何货架上依然能找到芬兰饺或意大利咖啡这类不同寻常的商品。其他一些人则解释，进口商已经找到了绕开禁令的路子，经由白俄罗斯进口欧洲食品。这些商品会在白俄罗斯重新贴上标签，然后再穿过边境线进入俄罗斯。巴西等国也增加了面向俄罗斯的出口，尽管价格往往会更高。
Ever since the food ban was introduced last summer, the Russian government has used the opportunity to encourage local producers to fill the gap. That has already had some effect: By October, domestic meat production was up 12 percent, according to government statistics.
自今年夏天颁布食品进口禁令以来，俄罗斯政府借此机会，鼓励本土厂商填补空白。此举已经有了一些成效：政府统计数据显示，截至10月，俄罗斯国内肉类产量增加了12%。
Until this crisis hit, Russian consumers said, they were not aware of their dependence on imported food. Now, as their currency loses value, putting Western goods out of reach, they welcome government-backed efforts to step up domestic production.
俄罗斯消费者称，在这次危机来袭前，他们并没有意识到自己对进口食品的依赖。现在，随着货币贬值导致他们没法购买西方食品，他们对由政府支持的增加国内产量的计划表示欢迎。