MOSCOW — Thousands of Russians marched through Moscow on Sunday in an antigovernment demonstration criticizing President Vladimir V. Putin for what they saw as his warmongering in Ukraine.
莫斯科——成千上万的俄罗斯人周日走上莫斯科街头进行反政府示威，批评总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京，称其在他们看来是在乌克兰充当战争贩子。
It was the first large-scale public demonstration against Mr. Putin since March, and one that brought out a sizable but often silent minority of Mr. Putin’s critics despite the patriotic fervor that has seized Russia since his annexation of Crimea in March.
这是三月份以来首次针对普京的大规模公开示威，此次示威吸引了通常沉默的少数人中的相当一大部分参加，自从普京在三月吞并了克里米亚后，爱国热情一直充斥着俄罗斯。
“I am disturbed that Russia is fueling a war in Ukraine,” said Sergey Arefov, a lawyer who had attended opposition rallies here before. “I believe it is very dangerous for us and for Europe.”
“我为俄罗斯在乌克兰推动战争而不安，”以前参加过这里的反对派集会的律师谢尔盖·阿列佛夫(Sergey Arefov)说。“我认为这对我们和欧洲来说都很危险。”
In his hand he held a small Ukrainian flag, though he said he was nervous to ride with it on the subway. “I hid the flag,” he said sheepishly. “A year ago, I could never have imagined it would come to this.”
他手举一面小型的乌克兰国旗，但是他说，带着旗子乘坐地铁让他感到紧张。他不好意思地说，“我把旗子藏起来了。一年前，我从未想到会变成这样。”
The grinding conflict in eastern Ukraine between the government in Kiev and several separatist republics has left more than 3,000 people dead since March. The West has accused Russia of supplying arms and soldiers to the separatists, a charge that Mr. Putin has denied.
在乌克兰东部，基辅政府与几个分裂共和国没完没了的冲突，自3月以来已造成3000多人死亡。西方指责俄罗斯向分裂分子提供武器和士兵，普京一直否认这个指责。
In Russia, the conflict has driven a wave of nationalism. State-run television channels have hounded Russian opposition politicians and celebrities who have spoken publicly in support of Ukraine, and Mr. Putin warned in a recent speech of “national traitors” who could bring down Russia from within.
乌克兰的冲突已在俄罗斯引发了民族主义浪潮。国有电视台不断攻击曾公开表示支持乌克兰的俄罗斯反对派政客和名人，普京也在最近一次讲话中警告说，“民族败类”会从内部搞垮俄罗斯。
Mr. Putin probably had in mind some of those who protested on Sunday, many of whom were veterans of the opposition rallies against him in 2011, when more than 100,000 people protested electoral fraud. No one could say exactly why the city government allowed the march to take place, thought it might have been to gauge public opinion.
普京心目中指的很可能包括某些参加周日抗议活动的人，他们中有不少是参加过2011年反对普京集会的老手，当时10多万人抗议选举舞弊。没有人能准确说出市政府为什么允许这次游行发生，但认为可能是为了揣摩民意。
“I came here just to convince myself that I wasn’t alone,” said Tatyana Nestretsova, an accountant.
“我来这里只是为了说服自己我并不孤独，”会计师塔季扬娜·内斯特列措娃(Tatyana Nestretsova)说。
In what has become a familiar ritual, the city police underestimated the number of demonstrators at 5,000, while several march leaders overestimated it at more than 100,000. Sonar, a Russian volunteer organization that monitors public demonstrations, said it counted 26,100 attendees.
莫斯科警方把示威者人数低估为5000人，这已成为一个老套的例行公事，而一些游行的领导人则把参加的人数高估为超过10万。跟踪公众集会和示威的俄罗斯志愿者组织索纳尔(Sonar)表示，其统计的参加者数量是26100人。
Ilya Yashin, a leader of previous protests who was at Sunday’s march, said that the people were still the same — “city dweller, middle class” — but that “the agenda has changed.”
以前抗议活动的领导人伊利亚·雅辛(Ilya Yashin)参加了周日的游行，他说，参加游行的人和以前的一样是“城市居民，中产阶级”，但“议程已经改变了”。
“Back then we were protesting against stolen elections; it was a local problem,” he said. “Now Putin has created a global problem.”
“那时候我们抗议的是选举被盗；那是一个本地问题，”他说。“现在，普京已经制造了一个全球性的问题。”
One new protester was Regina Shemoyeva, an architect who said she had last demonstrated in 1991 during a failed coup. She said she had never voted for Mr. Putin, but had been glad for the growing stability in Russia. “There was a lot that was good,” she said. “But six months ago our politics took a sharp turn in a bad direction. Now it is just unbearable. I don’t like Russia’s politics in Ukraine. I don’t like what’s happening with the press.”
一名新的抗议者是列吉娜·谢莫耶娃(Regina Shemoyeva)，她是一位建筑师，她说自己上次参加抗议是在1991年失败的政变期间。她表示从来没有投过支持普京的票，但很高兴看到俄罗斯日益增长的稳定性。“有过很多不错的东西，”她说。“但是，半年前我们的政治向糟糕的方向急转直下。现在已变得难以忍受。我不喜欢俄罗斯在乌克兰的政治。我不喜欢媒体正在发生的情况。”
For a moment on Sunday, a spectacular, crisp fall afternoon, the protest regained an element of optimism and carnival that had melted away since a series of arrests and investigations that put the opposition on its heels.
在周日秋高气爽的下午，抗议活动在某个片刻让人恢复了一点乐观和激动的心情，这种心情自从一连串的逮捕和调查制服了反对派以后，曾烟消云散。
Dozens of political parties and social movements, many of them marginal and united only in their dislike for Mr. Putin, suddenly reappeared.
数十个政党和社会运动突然重新出现，其中许多是相当边缘化的，只是因为他们都不喜欢普京而团结起来。
“Glory to Kievan Rus’!” a pack of antifascists wearing black clothing and sunglasses chanted in support of the Kiev government. Later, organizers would have to separate them from a column of monarchist nationalists, also opposed to war, who began chanting, “White power.”
“光荣属于基辅罗斯！”一群穿着黑衣服、戴着墨镜的反法西斯者高呼着支持基辅政府的口号。没过一会儿，主办方不得不把他们与支持君主制的民族主义者分离开，后者也反对战争，他们开始高呼“白人权力”的口号。
Another move toward political resurrection was announced by Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former oil tycoon and rival of Mr. Putin who was released last December after 10 years in prison. Mr. Khodorkovsky, 51, said he was restarting his foundation, Open Russia, and would use it to support opposition candidates in parliamentary elections in 2016.
政治复苏的另一个举动是米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B.Khodorkovsky)宣布的，这位前石油大亨及普京对手在被关了10年监狱后于去年12月获释。现年51岁的霍多尔科夫斯基说，他在重新启动自己的基金会“开放的俄罗斯”(Open Russia)，将用其来支持参加2016年议会选举的反对派候选人。
Mr. Khodorkovsky, who lives in Switzerland, said in an interview published Sunday in Le Monde that he was ready to serve as president of Russia if called upon.
霍多尔科夫斯基现住在瑞士，他在《世界报》(Le Monde)周日发表的一份采访中表示，如果国家需要，他已经准备好出任俄罗斯总统。
At the rally in Moscow, Yuri Shulipa, a lawyer, carried a navy blue flag bearing the emblem of NATO, which many here believe is behind the violence in Ukraine. “We wanted to say that NATO has friends here,” he said.
在莫斯科的集会上，律师尤里·舒里帕(Yuri Shulipa)拿着带有北约标志的深蓝色旗子，许多人认为北约是乌克兰暴力的背后推手。他说，“我们想说的是，北约在这里也有朋友。”
A moment later, a man with his face covered snatched the flag out of Mr. Shulipa’s hands and disappeared down an alley.
没过一会儿，一个蒙面男子从舒里帕手中抢走了旗子，消失在一个小巷中。
More than 100 supporters of the separatists were at the rally, and several scuffles broke out.
100多名支持分裂分子的人也来到集会上，还发生了几场小扭打。