MOSCOW — Russia’s prison system, the successor to the notoriously harsh gulag, has issued an edict that would have shocked even the victims of Stalin’s purges: From now on, officials say, some prisoners will be forbidden to swear.
莫斯科——现在的俄罗斯监狱传承自昔日极为严酷的古拉格监狱。其系统近日发布了一条法令，就算是当年斯大林清洗行动的受害人也会为之震惊：官员们表示，从此以后，一些囚犯将被禁止骂人。
Under a new rule, detainees in pretrial detention centers will be banned from addressing either one another or their guards in the traditional, foul-mouthed slang of the Russian prison system, known as “fenya.”
在这条新法令下，关押在审前拘留中心的犯人禁止使用俄罗斯监狱里被称为“律贼行话”(fenya)的粗俗传统黑话对彼此或狱警讲话。
It is a rich and filthy language, one that the Ministry of Justice has been trying to crack down on for some time.
这是一种非常粗俗但又极为丰富的语言，俄罗斯司法部试图取缔它已经有段时间。
The ban, reported by the Interfax news agency, prohibits inmates from “socializing with other individuals using lewd, threatening, demeaning or slanderous expressions or slang.”
由俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)报道的这条禁令，禁止囚犯“用下流、有威胁性、侮辱性或诽谤性的词语或俚语，与其他人交流。”
There was no immediate indication of how the authorities intended to enforce the rule. Russian prisoners generally live in large, barracks-style communal cells with as many as 80 inmates to a room, where guards have little sway on what goes on.
目前还不清楚当局打算如何实施这条规章。俄罗斯囚犯一般都生活在类似兵营的集体大牢房里，多的时候一个房间住80个囚犯，对于里面的情况，狱警没有太大的掌控。 They are typically left alone at night, locked in and largely left to enforce their own rules of behavior.
晚上的时候，被锁在里面的囚犯基本没有人管，他们完全按自己的内部规则行事。
Under President Vladimir V. Putin, Russian politics have taken a hard conservative turn. A 2014 law banned swearing in the arts, whether in novels or at the theater, unless properly labeled for adults.
在俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的领导下，俄罗斯政治变得极为保守。2014年，该国曾颁布一条法令，禁止艺术作品中出现骂人的话，不管是小说还是戏剧，除非恰当地标明是给成人阅读和观看。
That ban left literary types scratching their heads. Russian dictionaries of cursing draw on a rich tradition: Some words have thousands of variants and are woven into Russian literature and culture, particularly in works concerning the prisons and the army.
这项禁令使得文学创作者大伤脑筋。俄罗斯的骂人词汇有着丰富的传统：一些词汇有成千上万种变体，都被俄罗斯文学作品和文化所吸收，尤其是监狱和军队题材的作品。
Dostoyevsky wrote that it is possible to express “even deep analytical thoughts” with one common, versatile Russian word for penis.
陀思妥耶夫斯基(Dostoyevsky)曾经写道，用一个普通的有关阴茎的通用词汇甚至能表达出“深刻的思想”。
The prison cursing ban is a new twist in a larger effort to overhaul Russia’s prisons, moving away from the large, common barracks of the gulag, which are seen as contributing to recidivism. The authorities are now focused on building smaller cells and strengthening discipline inside penal colonies.
禁止部分囚犯骂人的禁令，是一项更大的努力中的新举措，这项努力旨在对俄罗斯监狱进行彻底改革，放弃这种古拉格式的普通大牢房，后者被认为会增加累犯的几率。当局正集中精力建造空间更小的牢房，同时加强牢房内的纪律。
The swearing ban for inmates in pretrial detention follows an effort begun in 2013 to prohibit guards from speaking in fenya, the prison slang, to one another and to inmates.
在公布这项禁止审前羁押犯人骂人的禁令之前，俄罗斯在2013年已经开始禁止狱警彼此之间和对囚犯说律贼行话。