HELSINKI — Seeking to shine some light into the dark world of Internet trolls, a journalist with Finland’s national broadcaster asked members of her audience to share their experience of encounters with Russia’s “troll army,” a raucous and often venomous force of online agitators.
赫尔辛基——为了揭示互联网“喷子”(troll)的隐秘世界，芬兰国家广播公司的一名记者请她的读者分享有关俄罗斯“喷子军队”的经历。那是一群聒噪且时常恶语伤人的网络煽动者。
The response was overwhelming, although not in the direction that the journalist, Jessikka Aro, had hoped.
反响十分热烈，但并非这位名叫杰西卡·阿罗(Jessikka Aro)的记者所预料的那种反响。
As she expected, she received some feedback from people who had clashed with aggressively pro-Russian voices online. But she was taken aback, and shaken, by a vicious retaliatory campaign of harassment and insults against her and her work by those same pro-Russian voices.
一些人向她讲述了和激进亲俄人士在网上发生冲突的事，这在她意料之内。但让她震惊和恐惧的是，同一群亲俄人士，用骚扰和辱骂对她和她的工作发起了一场凶残的报复行动。
“Everything in my life went to hell thanks to the trolls,” said Aro, 35, an investigative reporter with the social media division of Finland’s state broadcaster, Yle Kioski.
“我的生活彻底被这些喷子带进了地狱，”现年35岁的阿罗说，她是芬兰广播电视台社交媒体部门Yle Kioski的调查记者。
Abusive online harassment is hardly limited to pro-Russian Internet trolls. Ukraine and other countries at odds with the Kremlin also have legions of aggressive avengers on social media.
粗鲁的互联网骚扰绝非亲俄喷子独有。乌克兰等和克里姆林宫有仇隙的国家，也在社交媒体上拥有成群的好斗复仇者。
But pro-Russian voices have become such a noisy and disruptive presence that both NATO and the European Union have set up special units to combat what they see as a growing threat not only to civil discourse but to the well-being of Europe’s democratic order and even to its security.
然而亲俄势力闹事和破坏力量之强，已经迫使北约和欧盟专设部门加以应对，他们认为这股力量不只是对公民话语构成了越来越大的威胁，还影响了欧洲民主秩序甚至安全。
This “information war,” said Rastislav Kacer, a veteran diplomat who served as Slovakia’s ambassador to Washington and at NATO’s headquarters in Brussels, “is just part of a bigger struggle.” While not involving bloodshed, he added, it “is equally as dangerous as more conventional hostile action.”
曾为斯洛伐克驻华盛顿大使和布鲁塞尔北约总部官员的资深外交人士拉斯蒂斯拉夫·卡恰(Rastislav Kacer)说，这场“信息战”只是“一场更大范围内的争斗的一部分”。他还说，虽然不涉及流血事件，它“和常规的敌对行动是一样危险的”。
For Aro, the abuse increased sharply last year when, following up on reports in the opposition Russian news media, she visited St. Petersburg to investigate the workings of a Russian “troll factory.” The big office churns out fake news and comment, particularly on Ukraine, and floods websites and social media with denunciations of Russia’s critics.
对阿罗来说，谩骂在去年陡然加剧，当时她为了跟进有关俄罗斯反对派新闻媒体的报道，前往圣彼得堡调查了俄罗斯“喷子工厂”的运作。巨大的办公室里炮制着假新闻和评论，尤以针对乌克兰居多，对俄罗斯批评人士的指责声淹没了网站和社交媒体。
As Aro’s experiences illustrate, Finland, a country at the center of Russia’s concerns about NATO’s expansion toward its borders, has emerged as a particularly active front in the information wars. A member of the EU with an 830-mile-long border with Russia, Finland has stayed outside the United States-led military alliance but, unnerved by Russian military actions in Ukraine and its saber-rattling in the Baltic Sea, has expanded cooperation with NATO and debated whether to apply for full membership.
芬兰在俄罗斯所担心的北约东扩行动中是一个关键，阿罗的遭遇显示出，这个国家已经成为信息战中一条格外热闹的战线。这个欧盟成员国和俄罗斯之间有一条830英里（约合1335公里）的国境线，至今没有加入美国主导的军事同盟，但俄罗斯对乌克兰的军事介入以及波罗的海上剑拔弩张的气氛令芬兰开始动摇。它已经增加了与北约的合作，并在讨论是否申请成为正式成员。
Public opinion is deeply divided, making Finland a prime target for a campaign by Russia.
其公众意见存在严重分歧，因此该国也就成了俄罗斯的首要行动目标。
Europe’s main response so far has been to try to counter outright lies. In November, the EU launched “Disinformation Review,” a weekly compendium of pro-Kremlin distortions and untruths.
欧洲目前的应对主要是揭穿一些毫无疑问的谎言。去年11月，欧盟开始每周刊发《虚假信息评述》(Disinformation Review)，搜集有利于克里姆林宫的歪曲和虚假信息。
But facts have been powerless against a torrent of abuse and ridicule targeted at European journalists, researchers and others labeled NATO stooges.
但面对这场以欧洲记者、研究人员和诸多被认定是“北约走狗”的人为目标的大规模辱骂和嘲讽行动，事实显得很无力。
Pro-Russian activists insist that they are merely exercising their right to free speech, and that they do not take money or instructions from Moscow.
亲俄活动人士坚称他们只是在行使自己的言论自由，并没有获得莫斯科的资金或指示。
The most abusive messages against Aro were mostly sent anonymously or from accounts set up under fake names on Facebook and other social media.
在阿罗遭到的谩骂中，最刺耳的那些大多来自匿名者，或者是Facebook等社交媒体上以假名注册的帐号。
One of her most vocal critics in Finland, however, has openly declared his identity. He is Johan Backman, a tireless supporter of President Vladimir Putin of Russia who highlights the blurred lines between state-sponsored harassment and the expression of strongly held personal views.
而在芬兰，言辞最为激烈的批评者却公开了自己的身份。他就是约翰·贝克曼(Johan Backman)，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的一个不知疲倦的支持者。他的存在显示出，政府策动的骚扰行动和个人立场的坚定表达之间并没有明确的界线。
Fluent in Russian, Backman now spends much of his time in Moscow, appearing regularly in the Russian news media and at conferences in Russia as “a human rights defender.” He also serves as the representative in Northern Europe for the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, a state-funded research group led by a Soviet-era intelligence officer.
通晓俄语的贝克曼现在多数时间在莫斯科生活，经常以“一名人权卫士”的身份出现在俄罗斯的新闻媒体和研讨会上。他还是俄罗斯战略研究院(Russian Institute for Strategic Studies)的北欧代表，这家由政府资助的研究机构由一名苏联时代的情报官员领导。
Backman, who also represents the Donetsk People’s Republic, the breakaway state set up with Russian support in eastern Ukraine, denied targeting Aro as part of any “information war.” Rather, he insisted that Russia was itself the victim of a campaign of disinformation and distortion conducted by the West.
贝克曼还是顿涅茨克人民共和国(Donetsk People’s Republic)的代言人，也就是在俄罗斯支持下从乌克兰东部分裂出去的那个政权。他否认针对阿罗的行动属于某种“信息战”，反倒坚称俄罗斯是西方发起的一个散布谣言、混淆视听行动的受害者。
In a recent interview in Moscow, he said that Aro was part of this campaign and that she had tried to curtail the freedom of speech of Russia’s supporters in Finland by labeling them as “Russian trolls.” All the same, Backman added, her complaints about being targeted for abuse “have been very beneficial for Russia” because they have made others think twice about criticizing Moscow.
近日在莫斯科接受采访时，他说阿罗就是该行动的参与者，她试图通过给芬兰的俄罗斯支持者打上“俄罗斯喷子”的标签，限制他们的言论自由。尽管如此，贝克曼说，她这样抱怨自己成为辱骂的目标“对俄罗斯是非常有利的”，因为这会让其他人在批评莫斯科时有所顾忌。
Aside from NATO, Backman’s biggest bugbear of late has been Aro and the “Russo-phobic” tendencies that she, in his view, represents.
除了北约，近来让贝克曼烦心的就是阿罗以及一种“恐俄”倾向，在他看来阿罗就是这种倾向的代表。
Just days after Aro made her first appeal in September 2014 for information about Russian trolls, Backman told Russian People’s Line, a nationalist Russian website, and other media that she was a “well-known assistant of American and Baltic special services.”
2014年9月阿罗开始收集有关俄罗斯喷子的信息，几天后贝克曼对俄罗斯民族主义网站俄罗斯人民阵线(Russian People’s Line)和其他媒体说，她是个“出了名的美国和波罗的海特种部队助手”。
Around the same time, she received a call late at night on her cellphone from a number in Ukraine. Nobody spoke, and all she could hear was gunfire. This was followed by text and email messages denouncing her as a “NATO whore” and a message purporting to come from her father — who died 20 years ago — saying he was “watching her.”
差不多就在那段时间，一个乌克兰的号码在深夜给她的手机打电话。没人说话，她只听到了枪声。接着她又收到短信和电邮，指责她是“北约婊子”，有一条信息谎称来自她的父亲——已去世20年——说他在“看着她”。
The hardest blow, Aro said, came early this year when a Finnish-language news site, MVLehti.net, which is based in Spain and mostly focuses on vilifying immigrants, dug up and published court records that showed she had been convicted of using illegal amphetamines in 2004. She had been fined 300 euros.
然而阿罗说，最厉害的一次打击是在今年初，位于西班牙、以诋毁移民为己任的芬兰语新闻网站MVLehti.net挖出并公布了一份法庭文件，显示她在2004年曾因非法使用安非他命被定罪。她被罚款300欧元。
The website’s headline: “NATO’s information expert Jessikka Aro turned out to be a convicted drug dealer.” It also posted photographs of Aro dancing in a slinky outfit at a nightclub in Bangkok.
网站的标题是：“北约信息专家杰西卡·阿罗原来是已定罪的毒贩。”此外还刊发了一身撩人打扮的阿罗在曼谷夜店跳舞的照片。
Backman requested and received Aro’s old case file from the court shortly before the website published the documents. He denied passing them on to the site.
在网站公布文件之前不久，贝克曼曾向法庭要求并最终得到了阿罗的旧案文件。他否认自己把文件转交给了网站。
The false claim that Aro was a drug dealer triggered an unusual open letter signed by more than 20 Finnish editors infuriated by what they denounced as the “poisoning of public debate” with “insults, defamation and outright lies.” The Finnish police began an investigation into the website for harassment and hate speech.
有关阿罗是毒品贩子的虚假指控引来一封非同寻常的公开信。这封信由20多位芬兰编辑联合签署，他们称这种行为是以“侮辱、诽谤和彻头彻尾的谎言污染公众辩论”，为此感到愤怒。芬兰警方以涉嫌骚扰和发表仇恨言论为由开始对这家网站进行调查。
“I don’t know if these people are acting on orders from Russia, but they are clearly what Lenin called ‘useful idiots,'” said Mika Pettersson, the editor of Finland’s national news agency and an organizer of the editors’ open letter. “They are playing into Putin’s pocket. Nationalist movements in Finland and other European countries want to destabilize the European Union and NATO, and this goes straight into Putin’s narrative.”
“我不知道这些人是不是按俄罗斯的指令行事，但他们显然就是列宁所说的‘有用的白痴’，”这次编辑公开信行动的组织者之一、芬兰国家通讯社的主编米卡·彼得松(Mika Pettersson)说道。“他们的行为正中普京下怀。芬兰和其他欧洲国家的民族主义运动意图破坏欧盟和北约的稳定，这也正是普京想要的。”
Ilja Janitskin, the founder and head of MVLehti, who is based in Barcelona, Spain, said in response to emailed questions that he had no connection with Russia other than his surname. His political views, he said, are closer to those of Donald Trump, not Putin.
MVLehti网站的总部位于西班牙巴塞罗那，其创始人伊利亚·扎尼特斯金(Ilja Janitskin)在回答通过邮件发送的问题时称，除了自己的姓氏之外，他与俄罗斯不存在任何联系。他说相比于普京，他的政治观点与唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的更为接近。
He added that he had become interested in Aro only after she accused his website of “distributing Russian propaganda.”
扎尼特斯金还表示，他是在阿罗指控他的网站“散布俄罗斯宣传信息”之后，才对她产生了兴趣。