RIO DE JANEIRO — Late in 1983, months before they announced a boycott of the Los Angeles Olympics, sports officials of the Soviet Union sent detailed instructions to the head of the nation’s track and field team.
里约热内卢——1983年末，苏联体育官员在宣布抵制洛杉矶奥运会数月前，给本国田径队的负责人下达了详细的指令。
Oral steroid tablets were not enough, they said, to ensure dominance at the 1984 Summer Games. The team should also inject its top athletes with three other kinds of anabolic steroids.
他们说，为了确保在1984年的夏季奥运会赛场上胜出，光是口服类固醇片还不够。田径队还应该给队内的顶尖运动员注射另外三种合成类固醇。
Providing precise measurements and timetables for the doping regimens, the officials said they had a sufficient supply of the banned substances on hand at the Research Institute of Physical Culture and Sports in Moscow, a division of the government’s sports committee.
这些官员就兴奋剂使用方案给出了具体剂量和时间表，他们表示，在莫斯科的体育研究所备有数量充足的违禁物质。该研究所是政府下属体育委员会的分支机构。
The potent drugs were critical to keeping up with the competition, they wrote in the instructions.
这些药力强大的药物是保持竞争力的关键，他们在指令中写道。
The document — obtained by The New York Times from a former chief medical doctor for Soviet track and field — was signed by Dr. Sergei Portugalov, a Soviet sports doctor who went on to capitalize on a growing interest in new methods of doping.
《纽约时报》从原苏联田径队一名医疗主管手中拿到的这份文件上，有谢尔盖·波尔图加洛夫(Sergei Portugalov)医生的签名。波尔图加洛夫是苏联的运动医生，后来，他利用相关方面对新的兴奋剂使用方法日益增长的兴趣，获得了诸多利益。
Now, more than 30 years later, Portugalov is a central figure in Russia’s current doping scandal. Last fall, the World Anti-Doping Agency named him as a key broker of performance-enhancing drugs in Russia.
在30多年后的今天，波尔图加洛夫成了俄罗斯当前的兴奋剂丑闻的核心人物。去年秋天，世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency)将其列为在俄罗斯经手提高成绩的药物的关键中间人。
Revelations of the recent schemes compelled the international governing body for track and field to bar Russia’s team, usually a fixture on the medals podium, from the Rio Games.
近期的一些兴奋剂计划接连曝光，促使管理田径项目的国际机构下达了禁令，禁止通常总能拿到奖牌的俄罗斯田径队参加里约奥运会。
The 1983 document and the account of Dr. Grigory Vorobiev, the former chief medical doctor, who spent more than three decades with the Soviet track team, provide new evidence of how far back Russia’s state-sponsored doping stretches.
俄罗斯存在得到政府支持的兴奋剂使用计划，1983年的这份文件，以及曾为苏联田径队当了30多年首席队医的格里戈里·沃罗别夫(Grigory Vorobiev)的说法，为相关计划的历史之久远提供了新的证明。
Vorobiev’s career in Russian sports medicine lasted through the 1990s. In deteriorating health, Vorobiev, now 86, left Moscow five years ago for Chicago, where his son and grandchildren live.
沃罗别夫在俄罗斯运动医学界的职业生涯一直持续到1990年代。由于健康状况日下，现年86岁的沃罗别夫于五年前离开莫斯科，移居儿孙们所在的芝加哥。
Over two days of interviews in an assisted-living complex there, Vorobiev recounted his career. He spoke at the encouragement of his son, who said he wanted his father’s life documented in light of the recent doping revelations.
在一个可以照顾其起居的养老综合设施内，沃罗别夫接受了为期两天的采访，回顾了自己的职业生涯。他是在儿子的鼓励下开口的。后者说，有鉴于近来对兴奋剂丑闻的揭露，想让父亲的人生能被记录下来。
Vorobiev was one of the Soviet Union’s first full-time sports doctors. He specialized in improving coordination, strength and flexibility among elite athletes, with expertise in foot injuries.
沃罗别夫是苏联的首批全职运动医生之一。他专门负责增强顶尖运动员的协调性、力量和柔韧性，擅长治疗脚部损伤。
Speaking Russian that was translated by his son, he described a system in which winning at any cost without getting caught was paramount. As a member of the medical commission of track and field’s global governing body, he policed doping at international competitions while knowing that many of Russia’s top athletes were using banned substances.
沃罗别夫让儿子做翻译，用俄语描绘了一个以不惜任何代价赢得比赛，且以不被逮到作弊为首要目标的体系。作为全球性田径管理机构下属医疗委员会的成员，他曾在明知俄罗斯的很多顶尖运动员都正使用违禁物质的情况下，监管国际赛事中的违规使用兴奋剂的情况。
Vorobiev said he was not sure whether the doping scheme detailed in the 1983 document was carried out. Regardless, the communication captures the results-oriented mentality of the nation’s sports committee.
沃罗别夫说他不确定1983年的文件所提及的兴奋剂计划是否得到了执行。无论如何，这种交流折射出了苏联体育委员会以结果为导向的思维方式。
Not everyone chose to use illicit substances, he said, defending Soviet sports as not uniformly tainted. But low doses of oral steroids were common among top track athletes, Vorobiev said.
他说并非所有人都会选择使用非法物质，他还辩称苏联的体育领域并非全都受到了污染。但他表示，口服低剂量的类固醇片在苏联顶尖径赛运动员中颇为常见。
The anti-doping movement was in its infancy at that time. Still, anabolic steroids had been banned by the International Olympic Committee, and testing for them debuted at the 1976 Games, making the regimen that Soviet officials proposed for Los Angeles unambiguously prohibited.
当时，反兴奋剂运动还处于萌芽阶段。不过，国际奥委会已经把合成类固醇列为违禁物质。对它们的检测始于1976年的奥运会，因此，苏联官员就洛杉矶奥运会给出的兴奋剂使用方案是被明令禁止的。
The 1983 letter — addressed to Vorobiev’s boss, the head of Soviet track and field — cited competition as a main motivation for adding injections to the “special pharmacological profiles” developed for national athletes after a meeting of the country’s sports committee on Nov. 24, 1983. (The letter was translated independently from the original Russian by The New York Times.)
1983年的那封信寄给了沃罗别夫的上司，苏联田径运动的负责人。信中显示，之所以把注射药剂添加到“特殊药物谱”里，是因为竞争激烈。这份名录是在该国体育委员会于1983年11月24日召开了一次会议之后，专门为国家队运动员制定的。（信件是由《纽约时报》从俄文原文独立翻译过来的。）
“A range of data,” the letter said, “proves that the main opponents of Soviet athletes will use the aforementioned injection form of anabolic steroids at the upcoming Olympic Games.”
信中称，“一系列数据表明，在即将到来的奥运会上，苏联运动员的主要对手将使用前述注射方式摄入合成类固醇。”
The letter — signed and archived by Portugalov, and bearing the signature of a colleague at the Institute for Physical Culture, Roshen D. Seyfulla — said top athletes with chances of winning medals were prime candidates for injections.
波尔图加洛夫在信上签了名并将信件存档，信上还有体育研究所的一名同事罗申·D·塞伊富拉(Roshen D. Seyfulla)的签名。信中称，有希望赢得奖牌的运动员是接受注射的主要人选。
Drawn into the plot, according to the document, was the Soviet anti-doping lab, which the officials — mindful of Olympic drug-testing — had recruited to determine how long the steroids in question would linger in the system.
该文件显示，苏联反兴奋剂实验室也卷入了这场阴谋。考虑到奥运会的药检，官员们找到该实验室，让其弄清考虑中的这些类固醇会在人体中停留多长时间。
In May 1984, about five months after the document outlining a doping plan was circulated, the Soviet Union withdrew from the Los Angeles Games, citing the “anti-Olympian actions of the U.S. authorities and organizers of the Games” in a statement.
1984年5月，也就是这封概述兴奋剂使用计划的信件被发出约五个月后，苏联宣布抵制洛杉矶奥运会，并在一份声明中将原因归为“美国当局及奥运会组织者有违背奥林匹克精神的所作所为”。
But the fixation on beating the competition by using banned substances did not end, Vorobiev said, and Portugalov’s profile continued to rise.
不过，沃罗别夫说，利用违禁物质击败竞争对手的执念并未消失，波尔图加洛夫的事业则继续蒸蒸日上。
For decades, Portugalov was a little-known figure outside Russia. Inside the country, however, he was a “fairly authoritative and very knowledgeable” figure who was not shy about advertising access to the best performance-enhancing substances, according to Vorobiev.
在数十年时间里，波尔图加洛夫在俄罗斯以外默默无闻。但据沃罗别夫所言，在国内，他是一个“颇具权威且极为博学”的人物，从不以推荐运动员使用有助于提高成绩的最佳药物为耻。
Vorobiev said that his own philosophy on developing elite athletes was not aligned with that of Portugalov’s, and that he preserved the document over several decades because he considered it proof of how Portugalov was masterminding the Soviet sports-science program.
沃罗别夫表示，在培养顶尖运动员的理念方面，他与波尔图加洛夫存在分歧，他说自己之所以把这份文件保存了好几十年，是因为觉得它能证明波尔图加洛夫如何策划了苏联的体育科学计划。
Portugalov came to global prominence in 2014 when two Russian whistle-blowers identified him as a linchpin distributor in Russia’s state-run doping scheme. In the wake of a damning report published by the World Anti-Doping Agency last fall, Portugalov was suspended from Russian track and field and from his post at Russia’s sports research institute.
2014年，波尔图加洛夫在国际上出了名。当时，两名俄罗斯运动员指认称，在该国政府主持的兴奋剂使用计划中，他是关键的分配者。世界反兴奋剂机构于去年秋天发布了一份措辞严厉的调查报告，波尔图加洛夫随后被暂时逐出了俄罗斯田径领域，丢掉了他在该国体育研究所的职位。
Portugalov could not be reached directly by The New York Times. A spokesman for WADA said the Russian Ministry of Sport had told the agency that Portugalov no longer worked for the government.
《纽约时报》无法直接联系到波尔图加洛夫。世界反兴奋剂机构的发言人称，俄罗斯体育部告诉该机构，波尔图加洛夫不再为政府工作了。
Investigations into his work, meanwhile, are continuing; last month, the global governing body for swimming appointed a lawyer to look into claims that Portugalov provided drugs to Russian swimmers.
与此同时，针对其工作的调查还在继续；上个月，管理游泳项目的全球性机构指派了一名律师，就波尔图加洛夫被控给俄罗斯游泳运动员提供禁药一事展开调查。
Richard Pound, former president of the anti-doping agency who led last year’s investigation, called the 1983 document an unsurprising indication of the long history of Russia’s doping program.
引领去年那场调查的，是反兴奋剂机构前主席理查德·庞德(Richard Pound)，他认为，从1983年的这份不足为奇的文件中，可以管窥俄罗斯执行兴奋剂计划的漫长历史。
“It shows the foundation on which a lot of this has been built,” he said. “The system we encountered is not new. It’s a continuation of the Soviet days.”
“它表明了许多这类事情的根源所在，”他说。“我们面对的这个体系并不新鲜。它是苏联时代的一种延续。”