MOSCOW — In a sharp rebuff to the West in the diplomatic wrangle over Ukraine, President Vladimir V. Putin said Tuesday that Russia would come to the rescue of its financially troubled neighbor, providing $15 billion in loans and a steep discount on natural gas prices.
莫斯科——在围绕乌克兰的外交角力当中，弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)对西方国家作出有力回击。他在周二表示，俄罗斯将援救这个饱受金融问题困扰的邻国，提供150亿美元（约合910亿元人民币）的贷款和价格非常优惠的天然气。
It was a bold but risky move by Russia, given the political chaos in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, where thousands of demonstrators remain encamped in Independence Square in Kiev, protesting their government’s failure to sign political and free trade accords with Europe.
鉴于乌克兰首都基辅爆发了政治动乱，俄罗斯的举动算是一个大胆却有风险的举措。数千名示威者仍然在基辅的独立广场(Independence Square)宿营，抗议政府没有与欧洲签订政治及自由贸易协定。
For the moment, however, Mr. Putin seemed to gain the upper hand over Europe and the United States in their contest for Ukraine, a former Soviet republic of 46 million that Russia sees as integral to its economic and security interests. It is by far the region’s most populous and influential country that has remained outside the European orbit.
然而，就目前而言，普京似乎在与欧洲及美国争取乌克兰的竞赛中占据了优势，俄罗斯将这个拥有4600万人口的前苏联共和国视作其经济及安全利益的重要组成部分。目前，乌克兰是该地区依然没有加入欧盟轨道的人口最多、影响力最大的国家。
For Mr. Putin, the jousting over Ukraine is the latest of several foreign policy moves that have served to re-establish Russia as a counterweight to Western dominance of world affairs. Earlier this year, he defied Washington by granting temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, and deflected an American military strike on his longtime ally, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, with a proposal to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons.
对于普京来说，有关乌克兰的竞争是一系列外交政策举措中的最新一项，俄罗斯通过这些举措来恢复自己的威望，平衡西方国家在国际事务中的主导地位。今年早些时候，普京公然挑衅华盛顿，批准了美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J.Snowden)的临时避难请求，并且提出一项有关消除叙利亚化学武器的提议，阻止了美国针对其长期盟友叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的军事打击计划。
There was no immediate quid pro quo for Russia in the Ukraine deal — at least not in plain sight. Protesters in Kiev have been deeply worried that President Viktor F. Yanukovich would cut a secret deal to join a customs union — essentially a free-trade zone across a large section of the former Soviet Union, allowing goods to travel across borders without clearing customs — that Russia has established with Belarus and Kazakhstan.
在对乌克兰的援助上，俄罗斯不会立即得到回报，至少不会有显而易见的回报。基辅的抗议者非常担心维克多·F·亚努科维奇总统(Viktor F. Yanukovich)会达成秘密协议，加入俄罗斯与白俄罗斯和哈萨克斯坦建立的关税联盟，这本质上是一个涵盖前苏联地区大面积区域的自由贸易区，允许货物无需清关跨越边境。
Over the weeks of protests, however, it became clear that the customs union was a nonstarter for Ukraine, and Mr. Putin said the subject did not come up in their discussions on Tuesday.
然而，几周的抗议活动之后，事态已经变得非常清晰，乌克兰不可能加入关税同盟。普京表示，周二的讨论没有涉及这个话题。
In Independence Square, where the large crowd was bolstered by people coming out of work, the initial reaction appeared to be a mix of fury and dismay, with people chanting, “Out with the crook!” But there was no call for drastic new steps.
在独立广场，不断有人中断工作来加入规模庞大的抗议人群。人们对普京言论的最初反应似乎是愤怒与沮丧的交织，并且反复叫喊，“骗子滚出去！”不过，没有人要求采取激烈的新举措。
Leaders of the three opposition parties who are coordinating the protest said the demonstrations would continue, and they voiced suspicions about what Mr. Yanukovich had offered in exchange for a Russian bailout.
组织抗议活动的三大反对党的领导人都表示，示威活动将会继续。他们还对亚努科维奇用来换取俄罗斯援助的条件提出了质疑。
“Free cheese is only found in a mousetrap,” Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the leader of the Fatherland coalition in Parliament, said in a speech. He asked for the patience of protesters.
“捕鼠器里才有免费的奶酪，”议会政党祖国联盟(Fatherland coalition)的领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)在讲话中说。他呼吁抗议者保持耐心。
The implications for the protest movement were not immediately clear, but Mr. Putin’s announcement, at a Kremlin meeting with Mr. Yanukovich, substantially alters the political landscape. It throws Mr. Yanukovich an economic and political lifeline that will spare him for now from negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, which was demanding significant changes to the government, judiciary and the economy in exchange for aid.
此事对抗议运动的影响尚不明确，但普京与亚努科维奇在克里姆林宫会面时所发表的声明却极大地改变了政治版图。它给亚努科维奇提供了一条经济和政治方面的救生索，所以他暂时可以不与国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）进行商谈，后者要求乌克兰大幅度改革政府、司法体系和经济以换取援助。
Mr. Putin, sitting beside Mr. Yanukovich on Tuesday, said Russia was happy to help. “With the goal of supporting the budget of Ukraine, the government of the Russian Federation made the decision to issue in bonds from the Ukrainian government part of its own reserves from the national welfare fund in the amount of $15 billion,” he said.
周二，坐在亚努科维奇身旁的普京说，俄罗斯乐意提供帮助。他说，“以支持乌克兰预算为目标，俄罗斯联邦政府决定从全国福利基金储备中拿出150亿美元，投资于乌克兰政府债券。”
Nodding to the demands in the West, he added: “I want to bring your attention to the fact that it is not connected with any conditions, not connected with the increase, decrease, or freezing of any social standards, pensions, subsidies or salaries.
在提到西方的要求时，他还说，“我希望你们能注意到这样一个事实，它没有任何条件，不需要增加、减少或冻结任何社会福利标准、养老金、补贴或工资。”
“And I want to calm everyone down. Today we did not discuss the question of Ukraine’s accessions to the customs union.”
“我希望能让所有人平静下来。我们今天没有讨论乌克兰加入关税联盟的问题。”
The country has been grappling with a deepening financial crisis that only worsened after Mr. Yanukovich announced abruptly last month that he would not sign political and free-trade agreements that had been in the works for years with the European Union.
乌克兰一直在与日益严重的金融危机作斗争。上个月，亚努科维奇突然宣布，他不会与欧盟签订经过数年酝酿的政治和自由贸易协定，此举只是令这场危机雪上加霜。
Mr. Putin said that the money to aid Ukraine would come from Russia’s hefty reserve funds, and that the price of gas sold by Gazprom, the state-controlled energy behemoth, would be dropped to $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters — less than the $380 Western Europe pays for Russian gas — from between $395 and $410, saving Ukraine $2 billion a year.
普京说，援助乌克兰的资金将来自俄罗斯丰富的储备基金，此外，由政府控制的能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)将把天然气售价从之前的每一千立方米395美元到410美元降至268.5美元，低于西欧为俄罗斯天然气支付的380美元买价，由此每年将为乌克兰节省20亿美元。
The Russian leader’s ability to announce a major bailout of Ukraine highlighted the contrasts with the West, where a rescue plan on such a scale would typically require protracted debate and negotiation. In Russia, it was a decision that Mr. Putin, in consultation with a close coterie of aides, could make himself.
俄罗斯领导人能够宣布对乌克兰进行大规模救援，突显了该国与西方的差异。在西方，这种规模的救援计划通常需要经过长时间的争论和协商。但是在俄罗斯，普京只需要与一些亲信进行磋商，然后就可以自行决定。
The decision to help Ukraine, without immediately demanding a commitment to join the customs union or any other evident quid pro quo, secured Russia’s continued sway and positioned Mr. Putin to further chastise Western officials for their aggressive efforts to support antigovernment protesters.
俄罗斯决定援助乌克兰，并且没有立即要求乌克兰承诺加入关税同盟或答应其他交换条件。此举确保了俄罗斯对乌克兰的持续影响力，并让普京有理由进一步指责西方官员对反政府抗议者的大力支持。