MOSCOW — Russia broadened its sanctions against Turkey on Wednesday to bar new Turkish construction and curb tourism activities in Russia, an expansion of measures put in place last month after Turkey shot down a Russian warplane under disputed circumstances.
莫斯科——俄罗斯于周三扩大了对土耳其的制裁范围，禁止土耳其建筑企业开展新项目，并控制俄罗斯的旅游活动。上个月土耳其击落了一架俄罗斯战机，事件的具体情形存在争议。此事促使俄罗斯采取了制裁，而新的举措加大了制裁力度。
Turkish construction companies currently working on skyscrapers, soccer stadiums and other projects in Russia can continue, but Turkish firms will be prohibited from signing new contracts after Jan. 1.
目前在俄罗斯建造摩天大楼、足球场及其他项目的土耳其建筑企业可以继续施工，但1月1日以后，禁止土耳其公司签署新合同。
Turkish companies are participating in all aspects of Russia’s infrastructure development, including the construction of stadiums for the 2018 World Cup soccer championship. In fact, it was a Turkish firm that in the 1990s refurbished the very government building where the Russian cabinet met this week to adopt the new sanctions.
土耳其企业参与了俄罗斯基础设施建设的方方面面，比如建造2018年世界杯足球赛的体育场。实际上，一家土耳其公司在1990年代翻修了政府大楼，而俄罗斯内阁本周就是在那栋大楼里开会，决定要采取新的制裁举措。
The new restrictions prohibit firms owned or based in Turkey from “activities in architecture, engineering, technical testing” of buildings. The expanded sanctions also prohibit Turkish citizens or companies from operating tourism agencies in Russia. Turkey is a popular destination for Russian tourists.
新举措禁止土耳其拥有或总部位于土耳其的公司，“参与建筑的设计、工程和技术检测工作”。新制裁举措还禁止土耳其公民或企业在俄罗斯经营旅行社。土耳其是一个很受俄罗斯游客欢迎的旅游目的地。
The ban is the latest in Russia’s escalating trade disputes with countries it is at odds with on foreign policy, which include members of the European Union and former Soviet states like Georgia and Ukraine.
俄罗斯与那些在外交领域存在争端的国家之间，产生了不断升级的贸易争端，比如与欧盟，以及与格鲁吉亚和乌克兰等前苏联国家。此次的禁令是其中最新的争端。
After Turkey shot down a Russian jet in November, asserting it had crossed into Turkish airspace from Syria, President Vladimir V. Putin canceled energy projects, banned fruit and vegetable imports and hinted at more retribution to come.
土耳其于11月击落一架俄罗斯战机，声称该战机从叙利亚进入了土耳其领空。之后，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)取消了能源项目，禁止从土耳其进口水果和蔬菜，并暗示会采取更多惩罚举措。
“We shall remind them many a time what they have done and they will more than once feel regret for what they have done,” Mr. Putin said this month in an address to Parliament.
普京本月对议会发表讲话时表示，“我们应该常常提醒他们都做了些什么，他们会不止一次地为自己的所作所为感到后悔。”
On Dec. 9, Russia’s state nuclear company, Rosatom, suspended work on a $20 billion nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, Turkey.
12月9日，国有的俄罗斯国家原子能公司(Rosatom)暂停了土耳其阿库尤(Akkuyu)核电站项目的施工，该项目投资额为200亿美元。
Russia is the largest market for Turkish exports after Germany, with about $6 billion worth of goods in 2014, or 4 percent of all exports. And it was the biggest source of Turkish imports in 2014, with $25 billion or 10 percent of total goods, according to an analysis by Renaissance Capital.
俄罗斯是土耳其出口商品的重要市场，规模仅次于德国。2014年土耳其向俄罗斯出口了价值大约60亿美元的商品，占出口总额的4%。复兴资本(Renaissance Capital)的一项分析报告显示，2014年土耳其共计从俄罗斯进口了价值约250亿美元的商品，占其进口总额的10%，俄罗斯是它的第一大进口来源国。