MOSCOW — The separatist demonstrations again churning through eastern Ukraine have raised fears of a Crimean-style invasion by the 40,000 Russian troops coiled just over the Russian border. But Moscow’s goals are more subtle than that, focused on a long-range strategy of preventing Ukraine from escaping Russia’s economic and military orbit, according to political analysts, Kremlin allies and diplomats interviewed this week.
莫斯科——分离主义抗议活动再次席卷了乌克兰东部，让外界担心盘踞在俄罗斯边境上的4万俄军会进行克里米亚式的入侵行动。不过，根据本周接受采访的政治分析人士、克里姆林宫盟友和外交官的说法，莫斯科的目标要更为微妙，着眼的是阻止乌克兰逃离俄罗斯经济军事圈的长期战略。
Toward that end, the Kremlin has made one central demand, which does not at first glance seem terribly unreasonable. It wants Kiev to adopt a federal system of government giving far more power to the governors across Ukraine.
为此，克里姆林宫提出了一个核心诉求，乍看之下并非特别离谱。它希望，基辅采用联邦政治体制，赋予乌克兰各地区的州级官员更大的权力。
“A federal structure will ensure that Ukraine will not be anti-Russian,” said Sergei A. Markov, a Russian political strategist who supports the Kremlin.
“联邦制将保证乌克兰不会反俄罗斯，”亲克里姆林宫的俄罗斯政治策略师谢尔盖·A·马尔科夫(Sergei A. Markov)说。
Russian officials have said they envision a system in which regions elect their own leaders and protect their own economic, cultural and religious traditions, including the forging of independent economic ties with Russia.
俄罗斯官员则称，他们设想的体制是，各地区选择自己的领导人并保护自身的经济、文化与宗教传统，包括打造与俄罗斯之间的独立经济纽带。
But many experts sharply dismiss the Russian plan as a stalking horse intended to undercut Ukrainian independence. “It is another way to dismantle and subjugate Ukraine,” said Lilia Shevtsova, an analyst with the Carnegie Moscow Center. “It means Moscow could grab and peel off any part of Ukraine at any time.”
不过，许多专家强烈谴责俄罗斯的计划是意在破坏乌克兰独立的幌子。“这又是一种对乌克兰分而治之的方式，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)的分析师莉利亚·舍夫佐娃(Lilia Shevtsova)说。“它意味着，莫斯科可以随时从乌克兰侵占和夺取一部分。”
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia “wants Ukraine to be, one, absolutely neutral and, two, dependent on Moscow,” said Vladimir A. Ryzhkov, an opposition politician. “If you have a weak central government and strong governors, you can play directly with the governors over the head of Kiev.”
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)“希望乌克兰，首先是绝对中立，其次是依赖俄罗斯，”反对派政坛人士弗拉基米尔·A·雷日科夫(Vladimir A. Ryzhkov)说。“如果能让中央政府孱弱、州级官员强势，就能绕过基辅直接与州一级打交道。”
The United States, while supporting decentralization, has opposed giving too much power to the regions.
美国尽管支持去中心化，但反对将太多权力下放到地区。
Many analysts said the question looming over Ukraine was not simply East versus West. The reality of Russian power is such that Ukrainians must perform a delicate balancing act, giving Mr. Putin enough influence to satisfy his demands while preserving their independence. This will center on the constitutional question of federalism, and will bear close watching, analysts said.
许多分析人士认为，乌克兰面临的问题不是简单的东西之争。现实是俄罗斯实力如此强大，因此乌克兰的行动必须保持微妙的平衡，在保存自身独立性的同时，给予普京足够的影响力来满足他的要求。分析人士称，这将围绕着联邦制的宪法问题展开，并将获得密切审视。
(Russia’s only other oft-stated demand, a simpler one, is preserving Russian as an official language — as it is now in regions where it is widely spoken.)
（除此之外俄罗斯只有一个经常提起的要求，这个要简单得多，就是保留俄语的官方语言地位——与广泛说俄语的地区目前的做法一致。）
While what the Kremlin will choose to do in the weeks ahead is impossible to predict, analysts cited three potential outcomes.
尽管不可能预测在接下来的几周里克里姆林宫会作何选择，但分析人士引述了三种可能结局。
In the first, Russia either manages to sway the presidential election with a candidate it favors, or it succeeds in putting in place the federal constitution it seeks in order to hold veto power over foreign economic and military policy.
第一种，俄罗斯或者利用自身看中的候选人达到影响乌克兰总统选举的目的，或者是成功地实现它寻求的乌克兰联邦宪法，从而掌握在对外经济与军事政策上的否决权。
So far, no candidate is allied with Moscow outright. But the two main possibilities are Mikhail Dobkin, the candidate of the Party of Regions, the party long a Moscow favorite, and Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who forged a close working relationship with Mr. Putin when she was prime minister. Ultimately, no Ukrainian leader is likely to risk openly hostile relations with Mr. Putin, given that roughly one-third of the country’s exports go to Russia.
截至目前，并未有候选人与莫斯科直接结盟。但是，存在两大可能人选：一是长期受到莫斯科推崇的地区党(Party of Regions)候选人米哈伊尔·多布金(Mikhail Dobkin)，二是曾在担任总理期间与普京建立了密切工作关系的尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)。说到底，鉴于乌克兰约三分之一的出口销往俄罗斯，没有任何乌克兰领导人会冒上公开与普京对抗的风险。
The Kremlin wants to see a proposed constitution that cedes a great deal more power to the governors than the current one does. Analysts suggested that the best compromise would be something along the lines of what many call the “federalization and the Finlandization” of Ukraine. After World War II, Finland adopted a practical approach to its giant yet skittish neighbor — not joining NATO to this day, and avoiding European Union membership until well after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union.
克里姆林宫希望看到，比起乌克兰现行宪法，提议中的宪法将会把更多权力让渡给州级官员。分析人士指出，最佳的妥协方案将会基本遵循许多人口中的乌克兰“联邦化加芬兰化”的框架。二战后，芬兰对其庞大却容易受惊的邻居采取了实用主义的策略——迄今未加入北约，而且直到苏联于1991年解体后好几年才成为欧盟成员国。
The second outcome is a kind of Crimea Annexation Part II, with residents of the east and south voting in a referendum on whether to join Russia. Protesters in Donetsk last weekend already announced that they would hold such a referendum on May 11, though Moscow did not immediately endorse the proposal.
第二种结局是吞并克里米亚的情形再现，届时乌克兰东部和南部的居民将在公决中投票决定是否加入俄罗斯。上周，顿涅茨克的抗议者已经宣布，他们将于5月11日举行一次这样的公投，不过莫斯科并未立即支持这项提议。
What worries Ukrainian officials is that the Kremlin could change course and demand a referendum if it deems any new constitution insufficient. That, in turn, could lead to a military incursion. This second outcome would undoubtedly destabilize Ukraine and thwart a full Western embrace, but it holds significant risks for Moscow.
让乌克兰官员担心的是，如果克里姆林宫认为任何新宪法都不能令其满足的话，它将改变路线，要求举行公投。这样一来，俄罗斯可能就会发动军事进攻。第二种结局无疑会损害乌克兰的稳定性，并阻碍它完全融入西方，但是这样做对莫斯科而言风险也很大。
First, there is no guarantee that Russia could take over large portions of eastern Ukraine without a fight, as it did in Crimea. In addition, an incursion would almost certainly prompt much more severe American and European sanctions, badly damaging an already stagnating Russian economy. The United States said Monday that Russian interference in Ukraine would be considered a “serious escalation” that could prompt more sanctions.
首先，无人能保证俄罗斯可以像在克里米亚时那样，兵不血刃占领东乌克兰的大片地区。此外，如果俄罗斯发动军事入侵，几乎肯定会引来美国与欧洲更严厉的制裁，这将给俄罗斯业已萧条的经济造成严重损害。美国周一表示，俄罗斯对乌克兰的干预将被当做可能会导致事态“严重恶化”，从而采取更多的制裁。
Trying to bite off a chunk of Ukraine itself could also prove unpopular among Russians, and western Ukraine could emerge as a solid, anti-Russian ally of the West not terribly far from Russia’s borders.
俄罗斯民众可能也不欢迎吞并大片乌克兰领土的做法，这样乌克兰西部地区可能就会变成西方可靠的反俄罗斯盟友，而且离俄罗斯边境也不算太远。
There is also strong reason to believe that in a fair vote, the referendum would result in defeat. There has been no significant groundswell for joining Russia, as there was in Crimea, which was part of Russia until 1954 and is home to a significant population of Russian military veterans.
我们仍然有足够的理由相信，如果投票公平进行，那么公投会以失败告终。加入俄罗斯的做法并没有特别牢固的群众基础，不像是克里米亚。直到1954年以前，克里米亚仍然属于俄罗斯，是大量俄罗斯老兵的故乡。
Perhaps most important, the oligarchs in eastern Ukraine, several of whom now govern the region, remain mostly opposed to becoming part of Russia.
或许最重要的是，乌克兰东部的寡头政客仍然基本反对加入俄罗斯。他们当中有几人目前是这片地区的领导人。
The third and least likely outcome is a full-scale invasion. Domestic support for Mr. Putin soared after the annexation of Crimea and the Sochi Olympics. But the financial cost of an invasion, and the potential for Russians coming home in body bags, could quickly reverse his roughly 70 percent approval rating.
第三种，也是最不可能发生的情况是全面的军事入侵。在俄罗斯举办索契冬奥会及吞并克里米亚后，普京在国内的支持率飙升。但是，军事入侵的经济成本和俄罗斯人阵亡的可能性，可能很快就会扭转普京大约70%的支持率。
Nevertheless, analysts said, an invasion cannot be ruled out. If Mr. Putin is driven solely by the emotional desire to recreate the Russian empire, or if Russian speakers are killed in significant numbers, he may feel he has no choice but to respond with force.
不过，分析人士表示，目前仍无法排除军事入侵的可能性。倘若普京只受重新打造俄罗斯帝国的想法驱使，抑或有大批讲俄语的人遭到杀害，他可能会觉得自己别无选择，只有用武力回应。
The Kremlin’s propaganda machine has certainly been laying the groundwork for this possibility, with its constant stream of reports that Nazism is rising from the dustbins of history in Ukraine and is prepared to join forces with NATO. “Putin believes that if he allows this ultranationalist junta to consolidate power, it will be war eventually anyway, but with a much stronger U.S.-controlled army,” Mr. Markov said. “Better to resolve the problem when the situation is soft.”
克里姆林宫的宣传机器当然一直在为这种可能性造势，它经常发布报告称，纳粹主义正在从乌克兰的历史垃圾堆里爬出来，而且已经做好了与北约联手的准备。“普京认为，如果他允许这种极端民族主义军事势力巩固权力，最终必然会爆发战争，但是那时会出现一支由美国控制的更强大的军队，”马尔科夫说。“最好在局势比较简单的时候解决问题。”