MOSCOW — Moving quickly to envelop Crimea in the Russian bureaucracy and economy, the Kremlin said Monday that it had nearly doubled pensions paid to retirees on the peninsula, raising them to the average levels paid in Russia.
莫斯科——俄罗斯政府周一表示，已经把克里米亚退休人员的养老金提高了将近一倍，与俄罗斯的平均水平持平。俄政府正迅速采取行动，将克里米亚纳入该国的政府管理和经济体制中。
President Vladimir V. Putin signed a decree raising pensions and another increasing salaries for public sector workers like teachers and doctors, according to a statement posted on the Kremlin's website. Officials also announced a number of new investment plans and tax breaks for Crimea, which Russia seized from Ukraine two weeks ago after a rushed vote in the Crimean Legislature. The Crimeans even realigned the clock, moving theirs ahead two hours, to be identical with Moscow's time zone.
根据克里姆林宫的网站公布的一份声明，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)已分别签署了一项提高养老金的政令，以及一项提高教师和医生等公共领域劳动者工资的政令。俄罗斯官员还宣布了针对克里米亚的若干项新的投资和减税方案。两周前，在克里米亚议会匆忙举行投票之后，俄罗斯从乌克兰手中夺走了克里米亚。克里米亚人甚至把时钟拨快了两小时，以与俄罗斯的时区保持一致。
To reinforce the message from Moscow, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry A. Medvedev traveled to the region's capital to hold a meeting with members of the Cabinet and local officials.
为了强化莫斯科传递的信息，俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)到访了克里米亚首都，与内阁成员和当地官员召开了一次会议。
In what U.S. officials interpreted as an encouraging sign on Monday that Russia would not invade other regions of Ukraine, the German government released a statement saying Putin told Chancellor Angela Merkel in a telephone call that he had ordered a partial withdrawal of Russian troops massed on Ukraine's eastern border, a source of great tension with Western governments in recent weeks.
周一，德国政府发表声明称，普京通过电话告诉德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，他已经下令撤回部分集结在乌克兰东部边境的军队。这些军队最近几周令西方国家感到非常不安。美国政府将上述消息解读为一个鼓舞人心的信号，意味着俄罗斯将不会入侵乌克兰的其他地区。
The German statement characterized the troop movement as described by Putin as “the partial withdrawal of Russian troops ordered from the eastern border of Ukraine.”
德国政府的声明称，普京把这次军队调动描述为，“下令从乌克兰东部边境撤回部分俄罗斯军队。”
There was no direct confirmation from Russian officials. The Kremlin's statement describing the same telephone conversation made no mention of any troop withdrawals. It said only that the leaders “discussed various aspects of the situation in Ukraine, including the possibility for international involvement in restoring stability” and that the pair had also talked about constitutional reform in Ukraine and another troubled region of Eastern Europe, the separatist Transnistria region of Moldova.
俄罗斯方面没有直接证实上述消息。俄罗斯政府关于这次通话的声明中没有提到撤军的消息。声明只是说，两国领导人“探讨了乌克兰局势的多个方面，包括国际社会参与其恢复稳定过程的可能性”，声明中还说，两人还谈到了乌克兰的宪法改革和东欧的另一个动荡不安的区域——从摩尔多瓦分裂出去的德涅斯特河沿岸地区。
The Defense Ministry posted a statement saying one mechanized battalion, a unit that would typically consist of about 500 men, had completed exercises in the Rostov region, which is on the border with Ukraine, and was returning to base elsewhere in Russia.
俄罗斯国防部发表了一份声明，称一个机械化营——一般拥有约500人的部队单位——已经完成了在毗邻乌克兰的罗斯托夫地区的军事演习，正在回到位于俄罗斯其他地区的军事基地。
The troops had simply completed their exercises, the statement said, without clarifying whether this relatively modest troop movement signaled any broader pullback from the Ukrainian border.
声明中说，这些军队完成了演习，但没有说明这个规模相对较小的部队调动是否代表着俄罗斯将从乌克兰边境大范围撤军。
U.S. officials, who estimate the Russians have deployed 40,000 to 50,000 troops near the Ukrainian border, reacted positively to the apparent pullback, whatever its size.
美国官员认为此次规模不大的调动似乎代表着撤兵，并给出了积极的反应。他们估计，俄罗斯在乌克兰边境部署了4万到5万军队。
“If reports that Russia is removing some troops from the border region are accurate, it would be a welcome preliminary step,” said Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman. “We would urge Russia to accelerate this process. We also continue to urge Russia to engage in a dialogue with the government in Kiev to de-escalate the situation, while respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.”
美国国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)说，“如果俄罗斯正在从边境地区撤出一些军队的消息准确无误，这是一次受欢迎的初步行动。我们将敦促俄罗斯加速这一过程。我们还在不断敦促俄罗斯与乌克兰政府开展对话，为局势降温，同时尊重乌克兰的主权和领土完整。”
Medvedev's visit was also a show of defiance to the West, coming just hours after Secretary of State John Kerry and Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, failed to agree on a diplomatic solution to the Crimean crisis at late night talks in Paris. Kerry called the annexation “illegal and illegitimate.”
梅德韦杰夫对克里米亚的访问，也是对西方国家的一次挑战，就在几个小时之前，在巴黎举行的深夜会谈中，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V.Lavrov)未能就克里米亚危机的外交解决方案达成一致。克里称，俄罗斯的吞并行为是“非法和不正当的”。
Medvedev said Crimea would become a special economic zone with tax breaks for businesses that invest in the region.
梅德韦杰夫说，克里米亚将成为一个经济特区，在该地区投资的企业可享受减税。