BURANOVO, Russia — For years, Buranovo was a dying village, one of many in the Russian countryside left behind by an oil-driven boom that revitalized drab Soviet cities and drew the young away from the farms that had sustained their parents.
俄罗斯布拉诺沃——很多年来，布拉诺沃(Buranovo)一直是一个快要消失的村庄。和很多村庄一样，随着石油给萧条的前苏联城市带来复兴，年轻人纷纷离开他们父辈赖以生存的土地，到城市谋生。
In places like this, collective farms routinely go bankrupt, log houses tilt and sink into the soil, roads become muddy ravines and village stores make much of their money selling vodka. Breaking the cycle of decline is considered difficult, if not impossible.
在这样的地方，集体农场纷纷破产， 木头房子倾斜倒塌，道路变成泥泞的沟壑，村中的小店大多靠卖伏特加赚钱。打破这种衰败的恶性循环很难，即使并非绝不可能。
But 300-year-old Buranovo is proving to be an exception, for the unlikeliest of reasons: a troupe of eight local women, many of them old and stooped, known as the Buranovskiye Babushki (or Grandmothers of Buranovo), who sang their way to instant fame in May during the pop music contest called Eurovision.
但是有着300年历史的布拉诺沃却是一个例外，它以一种最不可思议的方式出名了，八个当地的老太太——其中有几个甚至已经驼背了，组成了一个叫“布拉诺沃老奶奶”的组合，在5月份的流行音乐比赛“欧洲电视网歌唱大赛(Eurovison)”中一唱成名。
The babushki, the oldest of whom is 86, came in second in the annual contest, which pits performers from European countries against one another and holds the Continent in thrall each spring.
这个组合中年龄最大的86岁，她们在比赛中获得第二名。这项一年一度的比赛每年春天举行，吸引欧洲各国的选手前来竞赛角逐，在整个欧洲大受欢迎。
The little ladies in traditional dresses and kerchiefs put on a rock ’n’ roll performance that invited the world to laugh at them, smiling slyly as they shuffled across the stage and belted out their version of a hard-partying anthem, complete with a chorus in English:
这些老太太们身穿传统服饰，头戴方巾，表演摇滚乐，逗引得全世界大笑。她们则带着神秘的微笑，在舞台上跳舞，热情地演唱她们版本的狂欢劲曲。歌曲还配有一段英文合唱：
“Party for everybody — dance! Come on and dance! Come on and dance! Come on and boom boom!”
“每个人的狂欢，跳吧！来跳舞吧，来跳舞吧，嘭嘭！”
A video of the performance became a hit on the Web, adding to the more than 100 million television viewers who saw their act.
有超过一亿的电视观众看了她们的表演，表演的视频也在网上走红。
Now, the women’s good fortune is transforming not only their lives, but also Buranovo. In appreciation of the group’s near victory, the local government is building a water pipeline, installing streetlights and high-speed Internet for the village’s sole school and laying new gravel on the main roads.
现在这些老奶奶的好运不仅改变了她们自己的生活，还改变了布拉诺沃。为了感谢她们的胜利，当地政府正在修建一条给水管道、安装街灯，并且给村里唯一的学校安装高速网络，还给村里的主干道铺了一层石子。
“God forgot this place before the grannies sang,” Aleksandr Malkov said in his front yard as he watched flatbed trucks roll down the street with pipe for the new waterworks.
“在老奶奶唱歌之前，上帝遗忘了这个地方，”亚历山大·马尔科夫(Aleksandr Malkov)说。他站在前院里，看着货车载着用于新建水厂的水管在马路上驶过。。
It is difficult to overstate the impact of such improvements.
这些改进带来的影响怎么评价都不过分。
Like so much of the Russian countryside, Buranovo is at once picturesque and a scene of rural penury. Residents subsist on dairy farming, garden plots and food gathered in the forest, like honey and mushrooms. On a recent visit, the wind blew waves in a sea of green rye, and the front yards held gigantic stacks of split birch firewood.
就像很多俄罗斯农村一样，布拉诺沃曾经风景如画但是也很贫穷。当地的居民靠奶牛、种植蔬菜，以及在森林里采蜂蜜和蘑菇等为生。在最近的一次拜访中我看到，微风在绿色的麦田里吹起涟漪，人们的前院里堆着一大垛劈好的桦木柴。
Olga Tyurikova, a neighbor who fed one of the grandmothers’ chickens during the Eurovision contest, said the group saved the village. “If it weren’t for the babushki, nobody would ever have noticed there was no water in Buranovo,” she said. Most of the village never had running water.
在歌唱大赛期间，帮着一个老奶奶喂鸡的邻居奥莉加·秋里科娃(Olga Tyurikova)说，这个组合救了村子。“要不是这个老奶奶组合，没有人会注意到村子里没有水。”这个村子里的大部分地方没通自来水。
It all began with a miracle, said Olga N. Tuktareva, the leader of the singing group, who is 43 and in fact is not a grandmother yet.
这一切都从一个奇迹开始，组合的领唱奥莉加·图科塔尔娃(Olga N. Tuktareva)说。43岁的她实际上还没当上奶奶。
Ms. Tuktareva recalled strolling about the village with a friend in 2008 and lamenting a sad episode in local history: the destruction of the Church of the Trinity, taken down like countless other churches in Stalin’s Russia.
图科塔尔娃女士记得2008年，她和一个朋友在村子里散步，感叹当年当地的圣三一教堂和无数其他的教堂一样在斯大林时期被损毁。
Built in 1901, it had three altars, devoted to the Trinity, Archangel Michael and the Prophet Elijah. Party commissars closed it in 1937; 12 years later, a crew drilling for oil in the upper Volga River basin knocked down the church and carted off the bricks to build barracks for workers.
这个教堂建于1901年，有三个祭台供奉圣父圣子圣灵、天使长米迦勒和先知伊利亚。1937年布尔什维克党委关闭了教堂，12年后，有人在伏尔加河上游钻油井，他们拆了教堂，用教堂的砖头建工人的棚屋。
During that walk, Ms. Tuktareva recalled, her cellphone rang. It was a music producer in Moscow who had heard of the singing babushki — they performed locally — and had a proposition: if the troupe sang the Queen song “We Are the Champions” in their native language, Udmurt, to an audience of oil executives in Moscow, the producer would make it worth her time.
散步的时候，图科塔尔娃接到了一个莫斯科音乐制作人的电话，他听说过她们在当地的表演，而且有一个提议：如果这个组合能够用当地的方言乌德穆尔语给莫斯科的石油业高层演唱皇后乐队的《我们是冠军》的话，她们肯定会不虚此行。
“I thought, ‘This is strange,’ ” Ms. Tuktareva said. “I just said it is impossible to rebuild the church, and then my phone rang. This is not an accident.” After that, the group won minor fame performing songs by the Beatles, Deep Purple and the Eagles in Udmurt as a novelty act. The members — all deeply pious women who had to hide their beliefs in the Soviet era — set up a fund to rebuild the church.
图科塔尔娃女士说：“我心想，‘真奇怪，’我刚说完不可能重建教堂，突然电话就响了，这不是一个意外。”此后，这个组合用乌德穆尔语演唱了披头士、深紫乐队和老鹰乐队的歌曲，这种新颖的表演方式让她们小有名气。组合的成员都是虔诚的教徒，在苏联时期不得已隐藏宗教信仰，她们设立了一个基金去重建教堂。
The babushki competed to represent Russia at Eurovision in 2010 but, not yet fully transformed into a rock act, were not selected. They entered with a song called “How to Make Birch Bark Into a Hat.”
老奶奶合唱团2010年代表俄罗斯出征欧洲电视网歌唱大赛，但是当时还没有完全转向摇滚风，所以没有被选中。她们参赛歌曲是《怎么拿桦树皮做帽子》。
After that song fell flat, they realized that they needed more histrionics and more English. They performed “Party for Everybody,” a song with lyrics by Ms. Tuktareva in Udmurt and by Mary Susan Applegate, a lyricist for Modern Talking and other pop acts, in English.
在这首歌失败之后，她们觉得应该更夸张一些和多点英语，所以她们演唱了《每个人的狂欢》，歌词乌德穆尔语部分由图科塔尔娃女士创作，英语部分由为摩登淘金合唱团(Modern Talking)等流行歌手作词的玛丽·苏珊·阿普尔盖特(Mary Susan Applegate)填写。
While the women were in Baku, Azerbaijan, for this year’s Eurovision contest, the laying of a church foundation was begun with the money already in their growing fund. When they returned — escorted from a regional airport by a police motorcade — the jumble of steel and concrete awaited them.
当老奶奶们在阿塞拜疆的巴库参加今年的比赛时，教堂正在打地基，用的就是不断发展的基金的钱。当警察车队把她们从地区机场护送回来的时候，等着她们的是工地上的一片建设景象。
“We prayed and we cried,” Ms. Tuktareva said.
图科塔尔娃女士说：“我们一边祈祷一边流泪”。
Natalia Y. Pugachyova, one of two group members baptized in the original Trinity Church in the 1930s, worked at a pig farm for decades before finding fame. “Life was that way,” she said.
组合中有两个人上世纪30年代在这个圣三一教堂受洗，纳塔莉亚·普加乔娃(Natalia Y. Pugachyova)是其中之一，成名前在养猪场工作了几十年，她说：“生活就是那样。”
The members made no money directly from Eurovision, for their church fund or for themselves. But they do earn handsomely from concerts and pay themselves bonuses. Back in the village, fame is changing their lives — after Eurovision, schools from miles around have taken to sending classes on field trips to visit their homes.
虽然老奶奶组合没有直接从比赛中为教堂基金和自己赢得奖金，但是她们从各种演唱会中赚得不少，也犒赏了她们自己。回到村子里，名气也改变了她们的生活。在歌唱比赛后，周边的学校纷纷组织学生来参观她们的家。
The grandmothers say they remained secretly religious all their lives, but never expected the church to be rebuilt.
老奶奶们说，她们一辈子都秘密地保持着宗教信仰，但是从来没想过能够重建教堂。
“I had a vision that something would change in our village,” one of the singers, Alevtina Begisheva, 60, said. “But I never imagined we would return our church in this way.”
“我知道我们村子会有一些改变”，其中一个演唱者60岁的阿列夫京娜·别吉舍娃(Alevtina Begisheva)说，“但是我从没想过我们会以这样的方式重建教堂。”