MOSCOW — Moscow issued muted warnings on Monday in response to the Pentagon’s possible stationing of battle tanks and other heavy weapons to speed the deployment of American troops if needed in NATO states bordering Russia.
莫斯科——莫斯科周一发出了温和警告，以回应五角大楼可能部署主战坦克及其他重型武器的举动。美国这样做是为了在与俄罗斯接壤的北约国家需要时加快美国军队的派遣。
The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying it hoped that Washington would ultimately decide not to deploy the weaponry, while other senior officials and analysts suggested it would provoke the placement of a more potent Russian arsenal near the frontier or even herald the start of a competitive arms buildup.
俄罗斯外交部发布了一份声明称，希望华盛顿能够最终决定不部署这些武器，而其他高级官员和分析家则暗示这可能致使俄罗斯在边界附近部署更具攻击力的武器，甚至预示着扩充军备的竞争的开始。
“We hope that reason will prevail and the situation in Europe will be prevented from sliding into a new military confrontation which may have dangerous consequences,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said in the statement.
“我们希望大家能够回归理性，并且欧洲的局势能免于陷入新一轮的军事对抗中，这种对抗可能会带来危险后果，”俄罗斯外交部在声明中表示。
That was the first official response to a report published by The New York Times over the weekend about the Pentagon’s weighing the deployment of battle tanks, infantry fighting vehicles and other heavy weapons for as many as 5,000 American troops in several Baltic and Eastern European countries.
这是对《纽约时报》周末发表的一份报道的第一个官方回应。根据这篇报道，五角大楼考虑在几个波罗的海和东欧国家为多达5000人的美国部队部署主战坦克，步兵战车和其他重型武器。
The deployment of advance equipment would be the first such move since the Cold War ended with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Russia’s annexation of Crimea and its continued military interference in eastern Ukraine — although it denies any direct involvement — has prompted fears in other countries bordering Russia about further military action or meddling.
自冷战随苏联在1991年的瓦解而结束以来，这将是美国首次对先进装备进行这样的部署。俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并及其在乌克兰东部持续的军事干预行动导致与该国接壤的其他国家担心俄罗斯会推动进一步的军事行动或干涉之举。俄罗斯则否认该国直接参与了乌克兰东部的战事。
Hence the possible move was generally welcomed by Poland and the Baltic States, all of which used to be either part of the Soviet Union or controlled by it.
美国这一可能推出的举措普遍受到了波兰以及波罗的海国家的欢迎，所有这些国家都曾经是前苏联的一部分或受其控制。
Aside from aggression against its neighbors, Russia has renewed surveillance flights by military aircraft across Western Europe and in North America, prompting various games of chicken between planes patrolling the lines between national and international airspace.
除了对邻国的侵犯，俄罗斯已经恢复了其军机针对西欧与北美的侦察飞行，引发了各种在领空边界逡巡的飞机之间的胆量之争。
What the West considers renewed Russian aggression prompted the Pentagon to consider the move, but Moscow sees it as a longstanding pattern of NATO forces creeping closer to its borders.
在西方眼中，俄罗斯再次表现出了进攻性，而这促使五角大楼考虑部署装备的举措，但莫斯科将之看做是长久以来北约部队悄然逼近俄罗斯边境的做法的延续。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had no immediate reaction, although he was expected to address military matters on Tuesday when he opens a major exhibition showcasing new Russian weaponry. His spokesman, Dmitri Peskov, declined to comment on the possible stationing of weaponry because it came in a newspaper report and not officially from the Pentagon.
俄罗斯总统普京没有立即做出反应，但外界预计，他会于周二为一个展示俄罗斯新式武器的大型展览开幕时谈到军事问题。他的发言人德米特里·佩斯科夫(Dmitri Peskov)拒绝就可能出现的相关武器部署进行评论，因为该消息来自报纸报道而非正式来自五角大楼。
A senior Russian military official said his country would have no choice but to respond, including the probable deployment of Iskander ballistic missiles in Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave between Poland and the Baltics. The highly mobile missile is capable of carrying nuclear warheads.
一位俄罗斯高级军官说他的国家将别无选择，只能做出应对，包括可能在加里宁格勒（一块位于波兰和波罗的海之间的俄罗斯飞地）部署伊斯坎德尔弹道导弹。这种高机动导弹有携带核弹头的能力。
“Russia will be left with no other option but to build up its forces and resources on the Western strategic frontier,” Gen. Yuri Yakubov, a senior Defense Ministry official, was quoted as saying by the Interfax news agency. He called it “the most aggressive step by the Pentagon and NATO since the Cold War.”
“俄罗斯将别无选择，只能在西部战略边境增加军事力量和资源，”尤里·雅库波夫(Yuri Yakubov)将军说，这位国防部高官的话被国际文传电讯社援引(Interfax news)。他说这是“自冷战以来五角大楼和北约最具攻击性的行动。”