YEKATERINBURG, Russia — On the embankment of the lake at the heart of this city in the Urals, a half-built shopping center is slowly being turned into a monument to a man and an era that few in Russia remember fondly at all, even in the man’s native region.
俄罗斯叶卡捷琳堡——在位于乌拉尔区这座城市市中心的一处湖堤上，一座建成了一半的购物中心正在被慢慢转变成纪念一个人和一个时代的纪念馆。在俄罗斯，鲜有人怀念那个人和那个时代，哪怕是在那个人的老家所在的地区。
The complex, the Boris N. Yeltsin Presidential Center, modeled on those that commemorate former presidents in the United States, will soon become the first in a country where official history has more often rewritten or erased the legacies of departed leaders, not celebrated them.
这栋名为鲍里斯·N·叶利钦总统中心(Boris N. Yeltsin Presidential Center)的大楼效仿了美国纪念前总统的那种建筑。在一个官方历史经常篡改或抹杀、而非赞美已离世领导人政绩的国家里，这栋大楼很快将成为第一个纪念前总统的场所。
Given that President Vladimir V. Putin has more or less done the same with Mr. Yeltsin, repudiating the policies of the man who plucked him from political obscurity to become Russia’s second president on New Year’s Eve in 1999, the project is, to say the least, a little awkward.
弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)对叶利钦多少也使用了同样的手段，这个在1999年元旦前夕让他从政坛的无名小卒成为俄罗斯第二任总统的人，离任后留下的政策遭到推翻，考虑到这些，这个项目至少可以说是有些别扭的。
“I doubt that people will rush to see it,” Yelena Gabareyeva, 33, said, delivering her own historical verdict on Mr. Yeltsin, as she strolled with her husband and children beside the reservoir, filled with small sailboats coursing back and forth on a sunny spring day.
一个阳光明媚的春日里，与丈夫和孩子在满是小帆船的水库边散步的叶连娜·加芭蕾耶娃(Yelena Gabareyeva)说，“我估计人们不会蜂拥着去看那个中心。”现年33岁的加芭蕾耶娃表达了自己对叶利钦的历史评价。
Even with the center’s construction, she lamented the “destruction” that always seems entwined with the Yeltsin legacy in the popular imagination: in this case, of historic wooden houses along what is now Boris Yeltsin Street, torn down for an office development called Yekaterinburg City.
令她不满的是，叶利钦给民众留下的印象总是跟“破坏”交织在一起，连这座中心的修建都是如此：为了一个名为叶卡捷琳堡城(Yekaterinburg City)的办公楼开发项目，现名“鲍里斯·叶利钦大街”的街道两侧有一些历史悠久的木屋被拆毁。
Mr. Yeltsin, the ebullient, erratic leader who served as Russia’s first elected president from 1991 to 1999, still has his admirers, of course. Many of them, aides during his presidency, now work for the charitable foundation that Mr. Yeltsin started after stepping down, and they argue that history will be kinder to Yeltsin than Mr. Putin’s Kremlin has been.
叶利钦是一位热情洋溢、捉摸不定的领导人。在1991年到1999年期间，他是俄罗斯的首任民选总统。当然，他依然有自己的崇拜者，其中许多人都是他当总统时的助手，这些人现在为叶利钦下台后创立的慈善基金会工作。他们认为，历史对叶利钦的评价，会比普京领导的克里姆林宫的评价更良好。
“The goal is to show who Boris Yeltsin was, with all his good and bad properties: what he was doing, how he came to Moscow, what changes he introduced and what Russia, democratic Russia, gained thanks to him,” said Vladimir N. Shevchenko, the Kremlin’s chief of protocol under Mr. Yeltsin and one of those involved in the center’s creation.
“目的是展示鲍里斯·叶利钦是个什么样的人，有好的方面，也有不好的方面：他做了什么、他是如何来到莫斯科的，他引入了什么变革以及俄罗斯——民主的俄罗斯因为有了他而有何收获，”叶利钦任内的克里姆林宫礼宾司司长、参与创办该中心的弗拉基米尔·N·舍夫琴科(Vladimir N. Shevchenko)说。
The idea of building a presidential center arose even before Mr. Yeltsin’s death in 2007, at age 76, and the center’s directors visited the libraries of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton for inspiration — contentious enough at a time when many things American are officially greeted with vitriol.
叶利钦已于2007年去世，享年76岁。但早在那之前，修建一个总统中心的想法就出现了。为了寻找灵感，该中心的管理人员参观了罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)、乔治·H·W·布什(George H. W. Bush)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的总统图书馆。时下许多美式的东西都遭到俄罗斯官方的尖刻批评，此举足以遭致批评。
The center is scheduled to open here in October, offering a wary public the chance to reconsider the full scope of Mr. Yeltsin’s achievements and failures. That Mr. Yeltsin played an outsize role in the political upheaval that ended the Soviet Union is hardly disputed, but the consequences of his actions are very much so. He ushered in a new chapter of democratic freedoms and a sort of capitalism, at the cost of chaos, crime, a civil war in Chechnya and a corrupted oligarchy that enriched a few and left millions in ruin.
按计划，该中心将于10月开放，为警惕的公众提供一个重新全面审视叶利钦功过的机会。叶利钦在那场终结了苏联的政治剧变中发挥了巨大作用，这一点几乎毋庸置疑，但他的行为后果却存在巨大争议。他开辟了民主自由和某种资本主义的新篇章，代价则是混乱、犯罪、车臣的内战，以及一个富裕了少数人、让成千上万人陷入绝望的寡头政治。
A law establishing presidential centers — not just for Mr. Yeltsin — was adopted in 2008 in the waning days of Mr. Putin’s second term as president, but he left it to his own anointed successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev, to sign the law. Mr. Putin wanted to make sure “people don’t think I am doing it for myself,” Mr. Shevchenko said the president told him.
2008年，在普京第二届总统任期末期，一项有关设立总统中心的法律获得通过。但普京把签署该法律的工作留给了自己钦点的接班人德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)。舍夫琴科说，普京总统告诉他，他希望确保“人们不会认为我这么做是为了我自己”。
Mr. Putin, having completed two terms, is theoretically eligible to begin construction of his own center, but a Kremlin spokeswoman dismissed the very idea as premature. Mr. Putin’s current term, his third, began in 2012 after Mr. Medvedev served for a single four-year term, with Mr. Putin serving as his overshadowing prime minister.
从理论上来说，已经完成了两届任期的普京有资格开始修建自己的总统中心，但克里姆林宫的一名女发言人称这个想法为时尚早。2012年，在梅德韦杰夫为期四年的一届任期到期后，普京开始了自己的第三届总统任期。在担任总统期间，梅德韦杰夫也笼罩在任总理的普京的阴影下。
With a constitutional change extending the terms to six years, Mr. Putin’s term does not end until 2018, and he is widely assumed to be planning another term after that. The press office of Mr. Medvedev, now prime minister, declined to respond to requests about the plans, if any, for a Medvedev presidential center.
鉴于一项宪法修正案将总统任期延长至六年，普京的任期到2018年才会结束，而且人们普遍认为，他计划在那之后再连任一届。现任总理梅德韦杰夫的新闻办公室拒绝回应是否有修建梅德韦杰夫总统中心的计划。
Yekaterinburg, a city of 1.3 million people roughly 900 miles east of Moscow, was an obvious choice for Yeltsin’s center, also in the American tradition. Mr. Yeltsin was born in 1931 in Butka, a village 150 miles farther east. He later studied in Yekaterinburg, then known as Sverdlovsk, and rose through the Communist ranks to run the city before he moved to Moscow.
有130万人口的叶卡捷琳堡位于莫斯科以东大约900英里（约合1500公里）处。叶利钦的中心显然会选址在这里，这也符合美国的传统。1931年，叶利钦出生于再往东150英里的布达卡村。后来，他在当时叫做斯维尔德洛夫斯克的叶卡捷琳堡上学，并在共产党内节节高升，成为了这个城市的领导人，后来去了莫斯科。
Exhibits will include Mr. Yeltsin’s Kremlin office — not a replica, but a reconstruction fitted out with the furnishings removed when he left — as well as a recreation of the barricade in Moscow where he famously stood atop a tank while resisting the putsch in August 1991.
展品将包括叶利钦在克里姆林宫时的办公室——不是复制品，而是重建一处办公室，将他离任时搬走的家具放进去——还会重建莫斯科的那处路障。1991年8月，正是在那处路障那里，叶利钦站在一辆坦克上面反抗政变。叶利钦那次的举动非常有名。
Konstantin V. Kiselyov, a political strategist in Yekaterinburg and a staunch supporter of Mr. Yeltsin, expressed doubt that the authorities would allow an unvarnished view of Mr. Yeltsin, especially as it concerns the current president. “Not enough time has passed, and the authorities are not interested in discussion,” he said.
叶卡捷琳堡的政治策略师、叶利钦的坚定支持者康斯坦丁·V·基谢廖夫(Konstantin V. Kiselyov)怀疑，当局是不会允许将叶利钦的事迹毫无保留地呈现出来的，特别是在此事关乎现任总统时。“过去的时间还不够久，当局对讨论不感兴趣，”他说。