Everyone loves to win. But in Russia, obsessing about victories past or present, military or artistic, is a national pastime.
人人都喜欢胜利的滋味。但在俄罗斯，执迷于胜利是全国上下聊以度日的一种寄托——不论是过去还是现在的胜利，也不论是在军事领域还是艺术领域。
At least, that’s the impression you get if you listen to Russia’s politicians and its state-run news media. That Russia’s leadership in arts, sports and fighting terrorism is not sufficiently recognized by the rest of the world is a daily staple, a very public kind of acute status anxiety.
至少，如果听过俄罗斯政客和国有新闻媒体的说法，你会得出这样的结论。他们每天都在讨论，俄罗斯在艺术、体育以及反恐领域的领导地位没有得到其他国家的充分认可。这体现出一种非常明显的极端焦虑的心理状态。
Celebrating triumphs is preferable, of course. Russians do not like losing. In fact, their leaders make a show of being very sore losers indeed.
当然了，俄罗斯人更喜欢庆祝胜利。他们不喜欢失败。事实上，他们的领导人正在上演一出不能有风度地接受失败的戏码。
Take the Eurovision song contest. Despite being extremely kitsch, the event is taken seriously in Central and Eastern Europe — for reasons that often have little to do with music.
以欧洲歌唱大赛为例。尽管非常媚俗，但该赛事在中欧和东欧极受重视，而其原因常常与音乐无关。
In the finale of the most recent contest, a Ukrainian singer took first prize. The result, which was decided by televoting, seemed as politicized as the winning song: a tragic ballad about the fate of the Crimean Tatars deported under Stalin. Given Russia’s recent annexation of Crimea, it is not a stretch to assume that European audiences were sending Russia a message, rather than choosing a winner purely on artistic merit.
在刚刚结束的这届比赛的决赛中，夺冠的是乌克兰选手。比赛结果是由电视直播投票过程后得出的，它似乎和乌克兰选手用以赢得决赛的歌曲一样颇具政治色彩。那是一首悲伤的民谣，唱的是克里米亚的鞑靼人在斯大林时期被驱逐的悲惨命运。鉴于俄罗斯最近吞并克里米亚的事实，如果认为欧洲观众在向俄罗斯传递某种讯息，而非纯粹基于艺术价值的考量来选出冠军，应该不算牵强。
When the Russian singer, who had been favored to win, came in third, Russian politicians cried foul. One member of Parliament, Yelena Drapeko, blamed “an information war” against Russia for the result. Some angry citizens proposed that Russia boycott the next competition, which is to be held in Ukraine.
当此前被看好问鼎的俄罗斯选手只得到第三名的时候，俄罗斯政客连连叫屈。议员叶连娜·德拉普科(Yelena Drapeko)把比赛结果归咎于针对俄罗斯的“信息战”。一些愤怒的俄罗斯人提议，俄罗斯应该抵制将在乌克兰举行的下一届赛事。
On this occasion, perhaps, the Russian fury over what was seen as yet another unfair result of yet another unfair competition may have had some basis. But the average Russian learns every day that his country is treated unfairly and has been robbed of its triumphs, whether on battlefields or in sporting arenas. Envious rivals from the West and their agents, who surround and penetrate Russia, are said to be constantly working to deny the country the recognition it deserves.
在这种情况下，俄罗斯人或许有理由因为他们眼中又一场不公平比赛的又一个不公结果而感到愤怒。但普通俄国人每天被灌输的信息是，自己的国家正遭受不公平的对待，有人夺走了俄罗斯在战场上或者体育赛场上的胜利果实。他们被告知，心怀妒忌的西方竞争对手及其对俄罗斯进行包围和渗透的代理人，一直竭力让俄罗斯得不到本该属于它的认可。
“Russia’s enemies want a weak, sick state,” said President Vladimir V. Putin at a rally in 2007. “They need a disorganized and disoriented society.” He has blamed the West for seeking to undermine Russia ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union. This paranoid theme has become a recurrent strand in Mr. Putin’s presidential rhetoric. Even victory in World War I “was stolen from the country by those who sowed dissension within Russia,” he said in 2014, at a commemorative event. (He was referring to the Bolsheviks, but his argument was the same — “national betrayal” by Russia’s enemies.)
“俄罗斯的敌人希望看到一个软弱、病态的政府，”俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在2007年的一个集会上说。“他们希望看到一个无组织、无方向的社会。”他指责西方国家自从苏联解体后就一直试图削弱俄罗斯。任职总统期间，普京时不时就会重申这种偏激的观点。就连在“一战”战场上取得的胜利，也“被在俄罗斯内部挑拨离间的人从这个国家偷走了”，他在2014年的一场纪念活动中说。（他指的是布尔什维克，不过他表达的还是同样的观点——这都是俄罗斯的敌人“国家层面上的背叛”之举。）
The problem is that when winning is everything, the ends justify the means. So now, when Russia wins, the rest of the world is suspicious. A doping scandal that originally involved Russian track and field athletes now threatens to tarnish Russia’s much-vaunted victories in the 2014 Winter Olympics, held in the southern city of Sochi. More than a dozen Russian Olympians from the Beijing Games of 2008 also now risk losing their medals thanks to a retrospective doping probe.
问题是，当把胜利看作一切的时候，为达目的就可以不择手段。所以现在只要俄罗斯取得了胜利，世界上其他地方的人就会表示怀疑。一场最初只牵涉俄罗斯田径运动员的兴奋剂丑闻，现在却可能玷污俄罗曾大加夸耀的在2014年索契冬奥会上取得的胜利成果。索契是俄罗斯东南部城市。由于重新进行兴奋剂检测，十多名参加了2008年北京奥运会的俄罗斯奥林匹克选手也可能会被剥夺获奖资格。
Alerted by a Russian whistle-blower, the World Anti-Doping Agency established a commission that last year uncovered an extensive state-sponsored program of administering performance-enhancing drugs to top Russian athletes. The All-Russia Athletic Federation has been suspended from competition since last November. According to the new allegations, which have been made by the former head of Russia’s antidoping laboratory, state security agents were involved in a complex scheme to falsify Sochi athletes’ test samples and prevent detection of the Russian team’s systemic doping.
一个俄罗斯人揭发了内幕后，世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency)有所警醒，于去年成立了一个委员会。该委员会揭露了一项得到俄罗斯政府支持的牵涉面极广的计划：给顶尖运动员用药，以提高比赛成绩。从去年11月开始，俄罗斯田径协会(All-Russia Athletic Federation)被暂时禁止参加国际赛事。根据俄罗斯反兴奋剂实验室前负责人的最新指控，国家安全领域的特工曾参与一个复杂的计划，掉包索契奥运选手的尿样，以防俄罗斯代表队系统性使用兴奋剂的事实被发现。
“All this simply looks like slander by a turncoat,” said the presidential spokesman Dmitri S. Peskov, giving the usual knee-jerk response. But realizing that the Russian team faced possible exclusion from this year’s Games in Rio, the Kremlin changed tack.
“所有这些听上去不过是一个叛徒的诽谤之辞，”普京的发言人德米特里·S.·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)和平常一样下意识地做出回应。但当意识到俄罗斯队有可能被禁止参加今年的里约奥运会时，克里姆林宫改变了论调。
“We are very sorry that athletes who tried to deceive us, and the world, were not caught sooner,” wrote Russia’s sports minister, Vitaly Mutko, in a British newspaper. Officials have apparently decided to sacrifice some athletes in order to save the federation in time for the summer Olympics. Quite frankly, I am scared to imagine what Mr. Putin might do if Russia is barred from Rio.
“一些运动员试图欺骗我们，欺骗整个世界，却没有被更快地揭穿，对此我们感到抱歉，”俄罗斯体育部长维塔利·穆特科(Vitaly Mutko)在一份英国报纸上写道。官员们看似已经决定牺牲某些运动员，以便帮助俄罗斯田径协会尽快摆脱禁令，去参加今夏的奥运会。说实话，如果俄罗斯被禁止参加里约奥运会，普京会做出什么事来，我连想都不敢想。
Turning victories into a national religion may once have seemed a good idea. One cannot turn a country around in just a few years, but inspirational, feel-good narratives do help people find purpose during hard times.
曾几何时，把胜利变成一个国家的信仰，可能看似是一个不错的主意。你不可能在几年时间内让一个国家改头换面，但具有激励作用的、让人感觉良好的叙事，的确可以帮助人们在景况艰难之际找到目标。
I went to school in the old Soviet Union, and it was as I went to university that Russia’s transition to a post-Soviet state occurred. The process was not pretty. We did feel perhaps that our country was diminished, but we worked hard and never felt humiliated.
我是在前苏联时期进学校读书的，等到我上大学的时候，苏联经历了向后苏维埃国家的转变。转变的过程并不顺利。我们的确曾经觉得，国家在走下坡路，但我们依然努力工作，并未感到屈辱。
Of course, there were some who did feel degraded, party officials or former K.G.B. agents probably among them, but at first they were not a dominating force. Since the turn of the century, however, that has changed. Those who were upset about their loss of status have used these years of rule to convert people to their creed.
当然了，的确有人感到有失尊严，党的官员或者前克格勃(KGB)特工可能位列其中，但起初他们并不是主流。不过，20世纪末、21世纪初以来，情况变了。那些因地位的丧失而感到恼火的人，利用这些年来的统治，让人们转而相信了他们的信条。
Celebrations of Victory Day, marking the Soviet Union’s triumph in World War II, were always a big family event when I was little — my two grandfathers, then still alive, were both war veterans. During the past decade or so, though, the holiday has mutated into more than a day of remembrance. As a purported nation-building exercise, it has evolved into a full-fledged cult.
我小时候，用以纪念苏联在“二战”中获胜的“胜利日”庆典，一直是家里的大事——我的祖父和外祖父是曾经参战的老兵，那时都还在世。不过在过去10年里，这个假日变得不仅仅只是个纪念日。作为一项所谓的国族建设行动，它已经演化成了一种相当成熟的极端宗教。
Today’s Russia still does not feel like a humiliated society exactly, but it does feel like a bitter and disillusioned one. Every country, Russia included, needs uplifting narratives, but there is a psychological trap in turning recognition into a cult. If attaining success at all costs becomes acceptable, then any failure leads to recrimination and blame.
今天的俄罗斯看起来仍然不是一个感到屈辱的社会，但它的确是一个感到苦涩和幻灭的社会。包括俄罗斯在内，每个国家都需要令人振奋的叙事，但把认可变成极端宗教，会让人掉进心理陷阱。如果不惜任何代价获取成功可以被接受，那么任何失败都会招来指责和非难。
Worst of all, this cult is self-defeating, depriving us of the very recognition we crave: Even when Russia wins — especially when Russia wins — the world doesn’t believe in it.
更糟糕的是，这种极端的宗教会弄巧成拙，让我们难以得到我们极度渴望得到的认可：即便俄罗斯取得了胜利——尤其是当俄罗斯取得胜利的时候——外界却并不相信。