MOSCOW — Even as American and Russian diplomats groped toward a settlement that would halt further Russian military intervention in Ukraine, Gazprom, the Russian energy company, stepped up the economic pressure on Tuesday by sharply raising the price it charges for natural gas.
莫斯科——虽然美国和俄罗斯的外交官正在摸索达成一项协议，以阻止俄罗斯对乌克兰进行进一步的军事干预，但俄罗斯的能源公司俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)已于周二通过提高天然气售价，加紧了对乌克兰的经济压力。
Gazprom, a state-controlled gas exporter, raised the price to $385 for 1,000 cubic meters of gas, the standard measure used in gas deals in Europe, from $268, an increase of about 44 percent.
俄罗斯天然气公司是一家俄罗斯国有的天然气出口商，该公司将每1000立方米天然气价格从268美元（约合1663元人民币）提高到385美元，增长了约44%，1000立方米是欧洲天然气交易的标准单位。
The price increase follows what analysts say is a long practice at Gazprom of punitive pricing for countries in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe that are at odds politically with Moscow, while offering discounts to governments seen as friendly. The policy is never stated openly, though, and the change on Tuesday was no exception.
分析人士称，俄罗斯天然气公司长期以来对那些在政治上与莫斯科不和的前苏联和东欧国家实行惩罚性价格，而对那些被认为友好的国家予以优惠折扣，此次价格上涨与上述做法一致。但是，这一政策从来没有公开表述过，周二做出的提价也不例外。
Aleksei B. Miller, Gazprom’s chief executive, attributed the price increase to an unpaid debt for gas, making no mention of the recent revolution in Ukraine.
俄罗斯天然气公司首席执行官阿列克谢·B·米勒(Alexey B Miller)把这次提价的原因归于一笔没有偿还的天然气债务，没有提到乌克兰最近发生的革命。
Having failed to pay the debt, Ukraine no longer qualified for a reduction that Gazprom had offered the Ukrainian national energy company in December, Mr. Miller said. That price break was an incentive Moscow granted to Ukraine in return for its rejecting a free-trade pact with the European Union, a move that touched off the protests that eventually doomed the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovych.
米勒说，由于未能偿还债务，乌克兰已失去俄罗斯天然气公司去年12月向乌克兰国家能源公司提供优惠的资格。该优惠价格是莫斯科给乌克兰的奖励回报，因为乌克兰拒绝了与欧盟签订一项自由贸易协议，而乌克兰的做法在国内引起抗议，最终导致维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的政府被推翻。
“The December discount on gas cannot be applied,” Mr. Miller told reporters in Moscow.
米勒在莫斯科对记者说，“去年12月份的天然气折扣不再适用。”
The jump in the price came as no surprise to the new authorities in Ukraine. They have already planned, as required under an International Monetary Fund loan program, to slash state subsidies that have kept gas prices artificially low for consumers and industry.
乌克兰新政府对这次提价并不吃惊。他们已经按照国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的一个贷款项目的要求，做好了削减政府补贴的计划，这种政府补贴人为地降低了消费者和工厂使用天然气的价格。
Over the weekend, Secretary of State John Kerry and Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, failed to agree on a diplomatic solution to the crisis during talks in Paris. On Monday, however, Russia’s military withdrew a battalion of about 500 troops from the border with Ukraine, a mostly symbolic reduction in a force of about 40,000.
在刚刚过去的这个周末，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)未能在巴黎达就用外交手段解决这次危机达成一致意见。但是在周一，俄罗斯的军队从乌克兰边境地区撤走了一个约有500名士兵的兵营，相对于边境地区的4万名驻军来说，这充其量是一种象征性撤军。
The army has said it is merely carrying out exercises, and Mr. Lavrov and other Russian officials have offered assurances that they do not intend to invade Ukraine. But President Vladimir V. Putin has said he will intervene to protect Russian speakers anywhere in Ukraine, if Ukrainian nationalists threaten them.
俄罗斯军方称其只是在进行演习，拉夫罗夫和俄罗斯其他官员多次保证，他们没有入侵乌克兰的意图。但俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)曾说，他将采取措施保护居住在乌克兰任何地方的讲俄语者，如果乌克兰的民族主义者对这些人造成威胁的话。
The gas price rise illustrated how, even if the Russian Army withdrew from the border, Russia would retain numerous economic weapons to wield against Ukraine, and it is widely expected to use them, deftly and unrelentingly, as it has for years.
这次天然气提价表明，即使俄罗斯军队撤离边境，俄罗斯仍保留着许多针对乌克兰的经济武器，而且人们普遍认为，俄罗斯会巧妙且无情地使用这些经济武器，就像它过去多年所做的那样。
Russia has closed border crossings to trucks and has shut two chocolate factories in Russia owned by the leading Ukrainian presidential candidate, Petro Poroshenko. Purchases of missiles from a Ukrainian factory have been canceled.
俄罗斯已经关闭了边境口岸的货车通行，还关闭了两家在俄罗斯的巧克力工厂，这些工厂由在乌克兰总统候选人中占领先地位的彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)所拥有。
On Monday, Russia tried positive reinforcement in Crimea, the former Ukrainian territory that it now controls, doubling pensions and increasing public sector salaries, illustrating the financial benefits of allegiance with Russia.
周一，俄罗斯在克里米亚开始尝试正面强化，将养老金提高了一倍，还提高了公共行业的工资水平，以此来表示忠诚于俄罗斯所带来的经济利益，克里米亚曾是乌克兰的一部分，现在俄罗斯控制之下。
In Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, Parliament ordered law enforcement agencies on Tuesday to immediately disarm unofficial paramilitary groups, signaling growing resolve in the interim government to confront nationalists and other vigilantes who played a major role in the overthrow of Mr. Yanukovych more than a month ago.
在乌克兰首都基辅，议会于周二下令执法机构立即解散非正规的准军事团体，表明了乌克兰过渡政府日益增长的决心，政府要解决其所面对的民族主义者和其他自发武装组织所带来的问题，在一个多月前的推翻亚努科维奇的行动中，这些组织曾起过主要作用。
A bill, introduced and passed unanimously, ordered the Interior Ministry and the Security Service of Ukraine, the country’s successor to the K.G.B., to disarm the groups because of the “aggravation of the crime situation and systematic provocations on the part of foreigners in southeastern Ukraine and in Kiev.”
一项新提出的法案在议会获得一致通过，该法案命令乌克兰内务部(Interior Ministry)和乌克兰安全局（Security Service of Ukraine，其前身是克格勃）解散这些民间组织，由于“犯罪形势恶化，以及那些来自乌克兰东南部和基辅的外国人的系统性挑战”。
Tensions in the capital have grown between Arsen Avakov, the country’s new interior minister, and nationalist groups that continue to patrol the main squares of the city. The groups have mostly ignored an order to turn in their arms.
在乌克兰首都，新任内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)与民族主义组织之间的紧张关系不断增强，这些组织继续在该市的主要广场巡逻，基本上没有理睬让其交出武器的命令。