MOSCOW — Petro O. Poroshenko, the billionaire businessman who won Ukraine’s presidential election on Sunday, was portrayed last month in a bilious campaign profile on Russian television here as money-grubbing, devious, a radical sympathizer — in short, a run-of-the-mill Ukrainian politician to Russian eyes.
莫斯科——在俄罗斯电视台上个月播放的一个介绍参选人的令人作呕的节目中，周日在乌克兰总统大选中获胜的富商彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)被描述为一个唯利是图、诡计多端、支持激进主义的人；简言之，在俄罗斯人眼中，他是一个十分普通的乌克兰政客。
The program on NTV, a Kremlin ally, said he owned a mansion resembling the White House, clear evidence of dangerous Western sympathies. The report mocked him as “The Chocolate Rabbit,” twisting his usual nickname, “The Chocolate King,” from his confectionary fortune. A scientist, or at least someone wearing a white coat, materialized on screen to denounce his popular Roshen chocolate brand as riddled with carcinogens.
支持克里姆林宫的NTV电视台在其节目中称，波罗申科拥有一座与白宫相仿的豪宅，这显然是他具有危险的亲西方态度的证据。该电视台的报道还嘲笑他是“巧克力兔子”(The Chocolate Rabbit)，这是对他得名于糖果业财富的绰号“巧克力大王”(The Chocolate King)的歪曲。屏幕上出现了一个科学家，或至少是个穿着白大褂的人，公开指责他生产的深受欢迎的“如胜”(Roshen)牌巧克力含有致癌物质。
Then as Mr. Poroshenko emerged as the front-runner, a change occurred. The attacks ceased, and his chocolate factory in southern Russia, which government police had shuttered, was allowed to operate again.
然而，随着波罗申科在竞选中开始领先，一个变化发生了。对他的攻击停止了，他在俄罗斯南部的巧克力工厂曾被政府的警察关停，也获准可以再度运行了。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia even mentioned the chocolates in passing on TV as edible, and, in recent days, he has said on various occasions that he would work with whatever new leadership emerges in Kiev.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)甚至还在电视上顺便提到那种巧克力可以吃，最近几天，他在不同场合表示，他将与任何在基辅出现的新领导人合作。
“We will, by all means, respect the choice of the Ukrainian people and will cooperate with the authorities that will come to power as a result of the election,” Mr. Putin told a group of journalists from foreign news agencies on Saturday in St. Petersburg, according to a transcript on the Kremlin website.
“我们将绝对尊重乌克兰人民的选择，将会与通过这次选举上台的当局合作，”据克里姆林宫网站上的文字记录显示，普京周六在圣彼得堡对一组外国通讯社的记者这样说。
But there were a few caveats. Mr. Putin said he still considered President Viktor F. Yanukovych, deposed in February, Ukraine’s legitimate leader. Plus, much-needed constitutional reform would likely make any new presidential term short-lived, he said.
但是，也有几件事值得注意。普京说，他依然认为在2月份被赶下台的总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)是乌克兰的合法领导人。他还表示，迫切需要进行的宪法改革很可能会让任何一位新总统的任期短命。
Behind Mr. Putin’s remarks, Russian analysts, Western diplomats and others see twin objectives. The Kremlin’s main goal is to maintain its influence over Ukraine by whatever means necessary, but ideally through strong regional autonomy. Second, it would prefer that the instability in eastern Ukraine not disintegrate into militia warfare.
在普京评论中，俄罗斯分析人士、西方外交官员及其他人听到了两个没有明言的目标。克里姆林宫的首要目标是通过一切必要手段维持其对乌克兰的影响，当然，最理想的方式是强大的区域自治。第二个目标是，俄罗斯不希望乌克兰东部的不稳定演化为地方武装之间的战争。
Moscow would not be willing to work with, never mind embrace, Mr. Poroshenko, nor anyone who fails to recognize the need to pursue a nonthreatening Ukraine.
莫斯科不会愿意与波罗申科、或任何未能认识到有必要追求一个非威胁的乌克兰的领导人合作，更别提支持了。
“The attitude toward him will be chilly, but they understand that they will have to work with him,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, an analyst at the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow.
“对他的态度会很冷淡，但他们不得不与他合作，”莫斯科政治技术中心(Center for Political Technologies)分析师阿列克赛·V·马卡尔金(Aleksei V. Makarkin)说。
If anyone can dance the complicated minuet required to both court Europe and not provoke Moscow, analysts and diplomats concur, Mr. Poroshenko can.
如果任何人能够掌握靠拢欧洲而又不触怒莫斯科所需的复杂舞步话，分析人士和外交官员一致认为，此人便是波罗申科。
Mr. Poroshenko has proved business negotiating skills, a pragmatic streak and long experience in the fractious Ukrainian government. He was the foreign minister in 2009 and 2010 and the trade minister after that, telling Agence France-Presse last week, “I know Putin; I have had extensive experience in discussions with him; he is a strong and tough negotiator.”
波罗申科已被证明拥有商业谈判技能、务实的性格，以及在闹分裂的乌克兰政府中的长期经验。他曾在2009年及2010年担任外交部长，之后担任贸易部长，上周他对法新社(Agence France-Presse)说，“我认识普京；我在很多方面有与他讨论的广泛经验；他是个强硬的谈判者。”
But what Mr. Putin thinks of him remains unclear. On the positive side, Mr. Poroshenko has certain attributes that look good from Red Square. He has ties to Russia’s business elite, having invested heavily here. He is known to make pilgrimages to Russian Orthodox monasteries. His son met his daughter-in-law in St. Petersburg, Mr. Putin’s hometown.
但是人们仍然不清楚普京如何看波罗申科。从正面来说，波罗申科有某些在红场看来不错的特征。他与俄罗斯的商界精英有联系，在俄罗斯有很多投资。人们知道他有去俄罗斯东正教修道院朝圣的爱好。他的儿子和儿媳在普京的故乡圣彼得堡相识。
Russia did not go so far as to condemn him as a Nazi sympathizer, its main taint against a raft of Kiev politicians. He is, as one analyst not authorized to speak publicly said, seen by the Kremlin as “rukopozhaty,” or someone with whom you are willing to shake hands.
俄罗斯对他的批评没有到谴责他是纳粹同情者的程度，那是俄罗斯指责许多基辅政客所具有的主要污点。正如一名未被授权公开发表评论的分析人士所说的，克里姆林宫把波罗申科看作是“rukopozhaty”，既你愿意与之握手的人。
Mr. Poroshenko’s main conduits to the Kremlin are believed to include Dmitry V. Firtash, a Ukrainian oligarch. Mr. Firtash helped to consolidate Mr. Poroshenko’s candidacy, but he is now stuck in Vienna, fighting extradition to the United States on corruption charges. On a certain basic level, however, none of that matters, analysts said.
波罗申科与克里姆林宫接触的主要渠道据信包括乌克兰寡头德米特里·V·菲尔塔什(Dmitry V. Firtash)。菲尔塔什曾帮助巩固了波罗申科的候选人地位，但他现在被困在维也纳，正在那里为避免因腐败指控而被引渡到美国而奔波。分析人士说，在某种基本层面，所有这些都无关紧要。
“Russia does not think about individuals,” said Yevgeny Minchenko, an expert on Ukraine at the International Institute for Political Expertise. “Russia thinks about conditions, about moves, what they do. They are not worried about who you are; they only worry about what you do.”
“俄罗斯不考虑个人，”叶夫根耶夫·明琴科(Yevgeny Minchenko)说，他是政治专业国际研究院(International Institute for Political Expertise)研究乌克兰的专家，他说，“俄罗斯只考虑条件、举动，考虑他们做什么。他们对你是谁并不在乎；他们只在乎你做什么。”
The leadership in Kiev generally recognizes that it needs to inaugurate a direct dialogue with the Kremlin, analysts noted. Russia is just too big a neighbor to ignore, much less escape. There are also solid economic reasons.
分析人士指出，基辅的领导人一般意识到乌克兰需要开启与克里姆林宫的直接对话。俄罗斯这个邻国太大，不容忽视，更逃避不了。当然，还有坚实的经济理由。
Mr. Putin repeated during a question-and-answer session Friday at the St. Petersburg Economic Forum that he wanted Ukraine to pay the $3.5 billion it owes Russia for natural gas now. Russia is Ukraine’s largest trading partner, and the economically troubled junior partner builds numerous important components for the Russian military.
普京周五在圣彼得堡国际经济论坛(St. Petersburg Economic Forum)的问答时间段多次表示，他希望乌克兰现在就支付拖欠俄罗斯的35亿美元（约合218亿元人民币）天然气款。俄罗斯是乌克兰最大的贸易伙伴，而乌克兰这个经济陷入困境的弱小合作伙伴为俄罗斯军队制造很多重要部件。