WASHINGTON — The police here said Saturday that the department was continuing an investigation into the death of Mikhail Lesin, a former aide to President Vladimir Putin of Russia who helped design the government's takeover of independent media in that country. Lesin was found in a high-end hotel here Thursday morning.
华盛顿——周六，当地警方表示正对米哈伊尔・列辛(Mikhail Lesin)的死亡进行调查。列辛是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的前助手，曾协助计划政府对国内独立媒体的接管。他的尸体周四早上在华盛顿的一间高档酒店被发现。
Lesin, who the police said was 59, was found with no signs of life about 11:30 a.m. in a room at the Dupont Circle Hotel. He was identified by an official from the Russian Embassy here on Friday, according to its press secretary, Yury Melnik.
警方说，59岁的列辛于上午约11:30在杜邦环岛酒店(Dupont Circle Hotel)的一个房间内被发现，当时已没有生命迹象。据俄罗斯驻华盛顿大使馆的新闻秘书尤里·梅尔尼克(Yury Melnik)说，周五，一个大使馆职员确认了他的身份。
As of Saturday, the police said, an autopsy had been conducted but no ruling had been made about the cause of death. Russia Today, the English-language state television network Lesin helped found, reported that he had died of a heart attack, a detail echoed by a member of Lesin's family who reportedly spoke with the state news agency RIA Novosti.
截止周六，警方表示已经进行尸检，但仍未能确定死因。据列辛参与创办的俄罗斯国有英语电视网“今日俄罗斯”(Russia Today)报道，列辛是死于心肌梗死，他的家人接受俄罗斯国家通讯社俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)访问时亦是同一说法。
The hotel deferred all comment Saturday to the police in Washington.
周六，酒店表示一切问题都应由警方回答。
Lesin was a major figure in Russian media after the fall of the Soviet Union, first as an advertising executive and later as a top government official and media executive.
在苏联解体后，列辛是俄罗斯媒体界的重要人物。他一开始是广告公司高管，后来成为政府高级官员和媒体主管。
He had deep connections to the Russian state at the time Putin was reasserting his authority over the country's rambunctious and freewheeling media. He was a crucial figure in that process, which began with the takeover of Russia's first independent television channel, NTV, in the early 2000s, and was viewed with bitterness by many Russian journalists at that time.
在普京重新掌控那些不受管束、自由放纵的国内媒体的过程中，列辛与俄罗斯政府建立了很深的联系。他在其中扮演了重要角色，于2000年代初接管了俄罗斯首个独立电视频道NTV，成为这一过程的开端，当时此举为很多俄罗斯记者所痛恨。
He was Russian press minister between 1999 and 2004 — a time of increasing government pressure on independent journalists and media outlets in the country — and later served as a presidential adviser, spearheading the development of the government's growing media and technology apparatus.
他在1999年至2004年间担任俄罗斯媒体部长，当时政府增加了对国内独立记者和媒体的压力。后来他是总统顾问，带头不断推进政府媒体和科技机关的发展。
It was in the latter position that Lesin helped establish Russia Today, now known as RT. The network was intended to balance major Western media companies, but to critics both within and outside the country it has earned a reputation as a Kremlin propaganda arm.
在身为总统顾问期间，列辛帮助建立了“今日俄罗斯”，现在称为RT。该电视网旨在制衡西方主要媒体公司，但国内外的批评者均认为它是克里姆林宫的宣传工具。
“It's been a long time since I was scared by the word propaganda,” Lesin reportedly said in 2007, according to RT. “We need to promote Russia internationally. Otherwise, we'd just look like roaring bears on the prowl.”
“政宣这个词早就吓不着我了，”列辛2007年接受RT访问时说。“我们要在国际上宣传俄罗斯。要不然我们就只能像一只咆哮着踱步的熊。”
More recently, Lesin became head of Gazprom-Media, the country's largest media holding company, in 2013, but resigned from that position in late 2014.
最近，列辛在2013年出任俄罗斯最大媒体控股公司俄气传媒(Gazprom-Media)的主管，但于2014年末辞职。
While still with the company in 2014, Lesin's personal wealth attracted suspicion in the United States. Sen. Roger Wicker, R-Miss., called for a Justice Department investigation, raising the possibility of corruption and money-laundering charges based on what he alleged were millions of dollars in assets, including $28 million worth of real estate in Los Angeles, controlled by the former civil servant. It is unclear whether such an investigation occurred.
2014年，当他仍在公司任职期间，他的个人财富在美国引起了怀疑。密西西比州参议员罗杰·威克(Roger Wicker)要求司法部对其财富进行调查，提出贪污和洗钱的可能性，因为这名前公务员据称拥有数以千万美元计的资产，其中包括市值2800万美元的洛杉矶房产。目前还不清楚是否进行了这样的调查。