MOSCOW — A Russian military transport helicopter was shot down Monday in the Syrian province of Idlib, killing the three crew members and two officers on board in the deadliest episode for the Russian military since it intervened in the country, Russian officials said.
莫斯科——俄罗斯官员称，周一，一架俄罗斯军用运输直升机在叙利亚的伊德利卜省被击落，机上三名机组成员和两名官员遇难，这是俄罗斯军方介入叙利亚战事以来遭到的最重大伤亡。
The Mi-8 helicopter was hit by ground fire as it returned to the Hemeimeem air base from a mission to the embattled city of Aleppo, according to the Russian Defense Ministry.
俄罗斯国防部称，这架米-8直升机奉命前往战火纷飞的城市阿勒颇执行任务，在返回哈迈尼姆空军基地途中被地面火力击落。
Video footage, posted on Facebook by anti-government activists shortly before the Russian Defense Ministry confirmed the attack, showed two burned bodies on the sand about 300 feet from what appeared to be a helicopter in flames.
俄罗斯国防部确认发生袭击事件不久前，反政府活动人士在Facebook发布了的一段视频显示，沙滩上有两具烧焦的尸体，距尸体约300英尺处有一架在燃烧的直升机。
In the video, a number of men, some of them armed, cheered around the bodies, shouting “Allahu akbar,” God is great in Arabic. One of them jumped on a body, joyfully.
视频上，许多男人——有些持有武器——围着尸体欢呼，用阿拉伯语高喊“真主至大”。其中一个人兴高采烈地跳上了一具尸体。
A set of images, also released online, showed two Russian drivers’ licenses — one belonging to a young woman, another to a young man — and a laminated Orthodox icon of God. It was not possible to establish the names of the people pictured on the licenses.
同样被发布在网上的一系列图片显示了两份俄罗斯驾照——一份属于一名年轻女子，另一份属于一名年轻男子——以及一张有覆膜的东正教圣像。驾照照片中的人的姓名难以确认。
Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, confirmed that all those on board had been killed, according to the Tass state news agency, and he expressed condolences to victims’ families.
据国有新闻通讯社塔斯社(TASS)报道，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir  Putin)的发言人迪米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)确认，直升机上的人全部遇难。他还对遇难者家属表示了慰问。
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which opposes the Syrian government and tracks the conflict from Britain through contacts in Syria, said the helicopter crashed near the village of Saraqib in Idlib province.
总部设在英国，通过叙利亚境内的联系人对坠机事件进行了追踪的反政府组织叙利亚人权观察(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)称，直升机是在伊德利卜省萨拉齐布村附近坠毁的。
The aircraft had recently delivered aid to two Shiite villages nearby that have long been surrounded by Sunni rebels, the group said.
该组织称，这架飞机最近给附近两个被逊尼派叛军长期包围的什叶派村庄运送过救援物资。
None of Syria’s many rebel groups immediately claimed responsibility for shooting down the helicopter. But at a news briefing Monday, Lt. Gen. Sergei F. Rudskoi, a senior member of the Russian general staff, said it had been shot down over territory controlled by the Nusra Front and “the so-called moderate opposition.”
事件发生后没有任何一个叙利亚反叛组织声称对击落直升机一事负责。但俄罗斯总参谋部高级成员谢尔盖·F·鲁茨科伊中将(Lt. Gen. Sergei F. Rudskoi)在周一的新闻发布会上表示，飞机是在努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)和“所谓的温和反对派”控制的领地上空被击落的。
Last week, Russia said it had established several humanitarian passages in Aleppo to let civilians and insurgents leave the area. So far, 324 civilians and 82 militants have left the city through them, Rudskoi said. (Opposition groups in Syria have disputed these claims.)
俄罗斯称，上周它在阿勒颇设立了几个人道主义通道，让平民和叛军离开该地区。鲁茨科伊说，截至目前，已有324名平民和82名武装分子经由这些通道离开。（叙利亚反对派组织对这些说法进行了驳斥。）