MOSCOW —  At least one bystander narrowly escaped death when a Russian military helicopter accidentally fired rockets into a parking lot during a training exercise, a video released on Tuesday shows.
莫斯科——周二发布的一个视频显示，一架俄罗斯军用直升机在演习中意外地向一个停车场发射火箭弹，至少有一名旁观者险些丧生。
The video, from the online news portal 66.ru, shows two helicopters swooping over a field at treetop level before one suddenly fires off rockets that seem to hit a truck just a few yards from the bystander, who was standing on the parking lot, which is next to a firing range near St. Petersburg.
在线新闻门户网站66.ru发布的这个视频显示，两架直升机以树梢高度在一片场地上空疾驰，其中一架突然发射火箭弹，似乎击中了离那名旁观者仅几米远的一辆卡车，此人所在的停车场就在圣彼得堡附近的一个射击场旁边。
The misfire came during a major exercise, called Zapad 2017, or West 2017, though the timing of the strike was unclear. The exercises began Thursday and run through Wednesday.
此次误射是在一场被称为Zapad 2017，即西部2017的大型演习中发生的，不过误射时间不太清楚。该演习从上周四开始，一直持续到本周三。
Intended to flex Russian military muscle along the border with NATO countries to the west of Russia, the exercises have also highlighted some safety lapses. Already one Russian soldier has died from a ricocheting tank shell.
该演习旨在在俄罗斯西部与北约国家交界的地区展示俄罗斯的军事力量，但它也突显出一些安全失误。已有一名俄罗斯士兵被弹起的坦克炮弹壳击中身亡。
The Russian military issued a strongly worded statement denying that the helicopter mishap occurred on Monday, when President Vladimir V. Putin visited the firing range. But it did not dispute the authenticity of the video.
俄罗斯军方发布了一份措辞强硬的声明，否认该直升机误射事件发生在周一，也就是总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)参观该射击场时。不过该声明没有否认视频的真实性。
“The targeting system on one helicopter mistakenly acquired a target,” the statement explained. “The strike by unguided rockets damaged a truck.”
“一架直升机上的瞄准系统错误地瞄准了一个目标，”该声明称。“非制导火箭的打击摧毁了一辆卡车。”
“All reports on social media of salvos fired at a crowd of journalists and a large quantity of gravely injured people are intentional provocations, or somebody’s personal stupidity,” the statement said. It did not clarify whether anyone was wounded in the misfire.
“社交媒体上所有关于弹药击中一群记者，导致很多人严重受伤的报道都是故意挑衅，或者是因为某些人愚不可及，”该声明称。它没有说明是否有人在误射中受伤。
The news portal said an unidentified witness had provided the video, and suggested the mishap at the Luzhsky firing range occurred either Sunday or Monday. A longer video posted by another news site, Fontanka, shows civilian cars and a military truck damaged by shrapnel.
该新闻门户网站表示，一名未透露身份的目击者提供了该视频，并声称卢日斯基射击场的这次误射发生在周日或周一。另一个新闻网站Fontanka发布了一个更长的视频，表明弹片损坏了数辆平民汽车和一辆军事卡车。
Zapad 2017 is a revival of a Soviet-era training maneuver that once included forces from the Warsaw Pact, the Soviet military alliance whose members have now joined NATO. Today, only the armies of Belarus and Russia take part.
“西部2017”是对苏联时代演习的复兴，它曾包括苏联军事联盟《华沙条约》(Warsaw Pact)国家的部队，而其众多成员国现已加入北约。现在，只有白俄罗斯和俄罗斯的军队参与演习。
The exercises have raised fears in Belarus that the Kremlin intends to leave behind some of its forces, creating a permanent military presence there.
该演习令白俄罗斯人担心克里姆林宫打算把一些部队留在那里，永远保持军事存在。
Tensions are also high across the border, particularly in the Baltic states, where defense planners recall that similar large scale war games were used as by Russia to cover preparations for the invasion of Crimea and the establishment of a separatist zone in eastern Ukraine.
边界另一侧的局势也很紧张，尤其是在波罗的海国家，那里的国防规划者回忆称，类似的大规模战争演习曾被俄罗斯用于掩饰为入侵克里米亚和在乌克兰东部设立独立区做出的准备。