MOSCOW — Officers and recent graduates of Russia’s top security academy will be reprimanded or fired after a video circulated online showing them joyriding around Moscow in a parade of gleaming black luxury vehicles, the Federal Security Service said on Thursday. The agency, known as the F.S.B., said in an exceedingly rare statement that the incident had compromised its credibility in the eyes of the Russian public.
莫斯科——俄罗斯联邦安全局（Federal Security Service，简称FSB）表示，该国安全领域最高学府的一群情报官和刚刚毕业的学生将受到严厉的训斥，或被开除。此前，一段在网上传播的视频显示，他们组成耀眼的黑色豪华车队，在莫斯科各处开车兜风。FSB发布了一封极为罕见的声明，表示这起事件损害了该机构在俄罗斯公众心目中的信誉。
The joyride took place in June. About 50 young men celebrated their graduation from the agency’s academy by honking and waving from a fleet of 30 rented Mercedes G-Class S.U.V.s, roaring through the streets of the capital.
这起驾车兜风事件发生在今年6月。大约50名年轻男子为庆祝自己从FSB下属的学院毕业，驾驶30辆租来的奔驰G级SUV，喧闹地穿过首都的街道，在车上不停地按喇叭和挥手。
The vehicles, which are popular with Russian gangsters and the bodyguards who protect top government officials, cost at least $105,000 apiece in Russia. With the country in a sustained economic downturn, the sight of them careering through Moscow was hardly an image that the agency, where President Vladimir V. Putin once worked, would want to project.
这类车很受俄罗斯黑帮和保护高层政府官员的警卫队欢迎，在俄罗斯每台售价至少10.5万美元。随着俄罗斯经济持续下滑，这些人开着豪车欢呼着穿行于莫斯科的画面显然不是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)供职过的FSB想要对外呈现的。
Making matters worse, the joyriders ordered a slickly produced professional video of their parade, complete with techno rap music booming on the soundtrack. In two scenes in the video, the joy riders pose together with their faces clearly visible to the camera.
让情况更糟糕的是，这些兜风者让人拍下这一过程，制作成了画质精良的专业视频，还配有震天响的电子说唱音乐。在视频的两个片段中，兜风者一起摆好姿势，通过摄像机可以清楚地看到他们的面孔。
According to a comment posted online with the video, the men involved had studied in the academy’s military intelligence department.
与这段视频一起发布在网上的一条评论称，涉事人员曾在该校军事情报系就读。
“Their shameless and ostentatious behavior, connected with the short-term rental of luxury cars,” the agency’s statement said, “provoked reasonable indignation from the public and sharp condemnation by the professional community as incompatible with the professional code of ethics.”
“他们不知羞耻的炫耀行为，加上短租来的豪华车，”FSB在声明中表示，“引发了公众合乎情理的愤怒情绪，专业社群也因为其违背职业道德而予以谴责。”
When a participant in the joyride posted the video online, it went viral and provoked a public uproar.
一名驾车兜风的参与者将视频发布到网上后，它便迅速传播开来，引得公众一片哗然。
“This looks like an advertisement for public service,” wrote Andrei Kostin, a commentator. “This is where school graduates should apply, instead of becoming teachers, doctors, engineers.”
“这看起来像公职人员的广告片，”名为安德烈·科斯京(Andrei Kostin)的评论者写道。“这才是高中毕业生应该选择申请的去向，而不是当老师、医生和工程师。”
Aleksander Mikhailov, a retired major general in the security service, said in a televised interview that he was furious when he saw the video, and suggested that posting it online could be construed as treasonous.
该情报机构的退休少将亚历山大·米哈伊洛夫(Aleksander Mikhailov)在接受电视台采访时表示，在看到这段视频时，他感到非常愤怒。他还认为，将这段视频发到网上可以看作是叛国行为。
“For four years, they were taught the main principles: covertness, modesty, thoughtfulness, watchfulness,” Mr. Mikhailov told Ren-TV. “Whom did we get? Narcissistic merchants.”
“四年来，他们被教导的主要行为原则是：隐蔽、谦逊、深思熟虑和小心谨慎，”米哈伊洛夫对Ren-TV电视台表示。“结果我们得到的是什么？狂妄自大的商人。”
One man who said he took part in the ride criticized Mr. Mikhailov’s sharp comments, saying in a radio interview that they only exacerbated the damage. The man, who identified himself only as Vsevolod, told the Govorit Moskva radio station that the graduates were given the use of the vehicles by more senior officers of the security service.
一名自称参与了兜风的男子对米哈伊洛夫的尖锐言论表示指责。他在接受电台采访时表示，这些言论只会加重此事带来的后果。这名自称弗谢沃洛德(Vsevolod)的男子告诉莫斯科之声(Govorit Moskva)电台，这些毕业生是从该安全机构更高级别的情报官那里获准使用这些车辆的。
The F.S.B. is the successor to the Soviet K.G.B., which was once led by Mr. Putin. It remains one of the most powerful agencies in Russia.
FSB的前身是苏联情报机构克格勃(KGB)，克格勃一度由普京领导。它依然是俄罗斯最有影响力的机构之一。
Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, declined to comment on the matter last week, saying that it was up to the academy and the Moscow traffic police to make their own assessments of the incident.
普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)上周拒绝对此事置评，称此事应该由FSB学院和莫斯科交警各自进行评估。