WASHINGTON — Russia has secretly deployed a new cruise missile despite complaints from U.S. officials that it violates a landmark arms control treaty that helped seal the end of the Cold War, administration officials say.
华盛顿——美国政府官员表示，俄罗斯秘密部署了一枚新的巡航导弹，尽管美国官员表示了抗议，称之违反了一项帮助结束了冷战的里程碑式的武器控制条约。
The move presents a major challenge for President Donald Trump, who has vowed to improve relations with President Vladimir Putin of Russia and to pursue arms accords.
对特朗普总统而言，此举意味着一个重大的挑战。他曾承诺改善与俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的关系，达成武器控制协议。
The new Russian missile deployment also comes as the Trump administration is struggling to fill key policy positions at the State Department and the Pentagon — and to settle on a permanent replacement for Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser who resigned late Monday. Flynn stepped down after it was revealed that he had misled the vice president and other officials over conversations with Moscow’s ambassador to Washington.
俄罗斯此番新的导弹部署，正赶上特朗普政府在竭力填补国务院和五角大楼关键政策职位空缺，以及为周一晚些时候辞职的国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)决定正式的替代人选之际。弗林是他在与莫斯科驻华盛顿大使对话的问题上误导了副总统及其他官员，并在此事遭到曝光后辞职的。
The ground-launched cruise missile at the center of U.S. concerns is one that the Obama administration said in 2014 had been tested in violation of a 1987 treaty that bans U.S. and Russian intermediate-range missiles based on land.
让美国十分担心的这种陆基巡航导弹，正是奥巴马政府在2014年表示俄方违反1987年条约进行测试的导弹。该条约禁止美国和俄罗斯发射陆基中程导弹。
The Obama administration had sought to persuade the Russians to correct the violation while the missile was still in the test phase. Instead the Russians have moved ahead with the system, deploying a fully operational unit.
在导弹仍处在测试阶段时，奥巴马政府曾试图劝说俄罗斯纠正该违规行为。俄罗斯却继续推进该系统，部署了一支能全面作战的部队。
Administration officials said the Russians now have two battalions of the prohibited cruise missile. One is still located at Russia’s missile test site at Kapustin Yar in southern Russia near Volgograd. The other was shifted in December from that test site to an operational base elsewhere in the country, according to a senior official who did not provide further details and requested anonymity to discuss recent intelligence reports about the missile.
美国政府官员表示，俄罗斯现在有两个被禁巡航导弹营。其中一个依然部署在位于俄罗斯南部靠近伏尔加格勒的卡普斯京亚尔(Kapustin Yar)的导弹试验场。另一个在去年12月从这个场地转移到了位于该国其他地方的作战基地。该消息来自一位高层官员，此人没有提供进一步的细节，并要求匿名讨论有关这枚导弹的最新情报信息。
It is very unlikely that the Senate, which is already skeptical of Putin’s intentions, would agree to ratify a new strategic arms control accord unless the alleged violation of the intermediate-range treaty is corrected. Trump has said the United States should “strengthen and expand its nuclear capability.” But at the same time, he has talked of reaching a new arms agreement with Moscow that would reduce arms “very substantially.”
已经对普京的意图生疑的美国参议院同意批准新战略武器控制协议的可能性非常低，除非上面提到的中程导弹协议违规行为得到纠正。特朗普曾表示美国应该“加强和扩大自己的核武能力”。但与此同时，他也曾谈论过与莫斯科达成能“大幅度”削减武器的新协议。