BRUSSELS — Russian and Ukrainian officials reached an agreement Thursday night to resume Russian deliveries of natural gas to prevent shortages over the winter months, which require large amounts of energy for heating.
布鲁塞尔——周四夜间，俄罗斯与乌克兰官员达成协议，决定前者继续输送天然气，以防冬季燃料短缺。冬季通常需要大量能源来供暖。
The deal caps months of laborious talks under the aegis of European Union authorities on how much, and how soon, Ukraine needed to pay Russia for gas it has already consumed, and on the terms for future deliveries.
该协议结束了持续数月的艰苦对话，讨论是在欧盟官员的支持下展开的。两国讨论的议题包括，乌克兰需要为已经消耗的天然气，在什么时间向俄罗斯支付多少款项，以及未来天然气输送的相关条款。
The standoff between Moscow and Kiev had also prompted concerns in Europe that Russian gas piped across Ukraine, a former Soviet state, could be interrupted.
莫斯科与基辅之间的僵局使欧洲担心，从俄罗斯输送到乌克兰的天然气将受到影响。乌克兰曾是前苏联加盟共和国。
“There is no reason for people in Europe to stay cold this winter,” José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said at a news conference. Ukraine and Russia should “act as reliable partners,” he said.
“今年冬天，没有理由让欧洲人受冻，”欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)在新闻发布会上说。他表示，乌克兰和俄罗斯应该“像相互信赖的伙伴”。
The shuttle diplomacy reached its climax Thursday night when Alexander Novak, the Russian energy minister, flew to Brussels for a signing with Yuri Prodan, his Ukrainian counterpart.
周四夜间，这种穿梭外交达到了高潮。当时，俄罗斯能源部长亚历山大·诺瓦克(Alexander Novak)飞往布鲁塞尔，准备与乌克兰能源部长尤里·普罗丹(Yuri Prodan)签署协议。
A week ago the two men were at loggerheads when Mr. Novak demanded that the European Union help Ukraine pay $1.6 billion to help cover its debts, and after Mr. Prodan demanded that Russia sign a binding agreement to sell gas until next spring at $385 per 1,000 cubic meters.
一周之前，两人还分歧深重，诺瓦克要求欧盟为乌克兰支付16亿美元（约合98亿元人民币），好帮助后者偿清债务；在那之前，普罗丹曾要求俄罗斯签署一项具有约束力的协议，在明年春天之前，以每千立方米385美元的价格出售天然气。
Thursday night, the ministers signed a deal guaranteeing Russian gas deliveries to Ukraine until March 2015 against a backdrop of the Russian and Ukrainian flags. A second signing took place between the chief executive of Gazprom, Alexei Miller, and his counterpart at Ukraine’s Naftogaz, Andriy Kobolev.
周四夜间，两国部长签署了一项协议，保证俄罗斯将在2015年3月之前向乌克兰输送天然气，签字的背景是俄罗斯与乌克兰的国旗。俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）首席执行官阿列克谢·米勒(Alexei Miller)与乌克兰石油天然气公司(Naftogaz)董事长安德里·科博列夫(Andriy Kobolev)也签了字。
Mr. Barroso said the agreements also covered Ukraine’s outstanding debts to Russia.
巴罗佐表示，相关协议还涉及乌克兰欠俄罗斯尚未偿清的巨额债务。
Keeping gas flowing to homes and businesses could be critical for to keeping in power in Kiev the kind of pro-Western administration favored by the United States and the European Union, which have staked enormous political and financial capital on Ukraine’s future.
让天然气源源不断地流入企业和居民家中，可能对维持基辅亲西方政府的执政地位至关重要。基辅政府得到了美国和欧盟的支持，美国和欧洲已经为乌克兰的未来，押下了巨额的政治赌注和经济赌注。
But Moscow and Kiev may struggle to enforce the deal.
但莫斯科和基辅可能难以履行该协议。
The Ukranian economy still is hobbling eight months after the ouster of President Viktor F. Yanukovych in the face of bloody street protests over his decision to align more closely with Russia, and pro-Russian rebels and forces allied with the government in Kiev are contesting parts of eastern Ukraine.
在维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)决定与俄罗斯更紧密地结盟，于是引发血腥的街头抗议而被推翻的八个月之后，乌克兰经济依然步履蹒跚。亲俄罗斯的反政府武装，正在与和基辅政府结盟的部队争夺乌克兰东部的部分地区。
The main concern for the European Union was its reliance on the shipment of gas through Ukraine for about a fifth of its supplies. Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas giant, shut the taps in 2006 and 2009 because of disputes with Ukraine, leaving many homes in Central and Eastern Europe without heat and forcing rationing for industrial customers.
欧盟主要的担忧是，其大约五分之一的天然气，需要经过乌克兰输送。因为与乌克兰的争端，俄罗斯天然气巨头俄气公司曾分别在2006年和2009年两次切断供气，导致中欧和东欧许多居民得到不到供暖，并被迫对工业用户按配额供气。