WASHINGTON — Some of President Obama’s email correspondence was swept up by Russian hackers last year in a breach of the White House’s unclassified computer system that was far more intrusive and worrisome than has been publicly acknowledged, according to senior American officials briefed on the investigation.
华盛顿——据了解相关调查的美国高级官员称，在去年白宫非机密计算机系统遭遇的一次入侵中，奥巴马总统的一些电子邮件通信被俄罗斯黑客窃取。这次攻击的严重性和令人担忧的程度，要远甚于公开承认的情况。
The hackers, who also got deeply into the State Department’s unclassified system, do not appear to have penetrated closely guarded servers that control the message traffic from Mr. Obama’s BlackBerry, which he or an aide carries constantly.
这些黑客还曾深入到国务院的非机密系统，但似乎没有渗透控制着奥巴马的黑莓手机信息传输的服务器。这些服务器受到了严密的保护。该黑莓手机常常由奥巴马或他的一位幕僚所携带。
But they obtained access to the email archives of people inside the White House, and perhaps some outside, with whom Mr. Obama regularly communicated. From those accounts, they reached emails that the president had sent and received, according to officials briefed on the investigation.
但他们能够进入白宫内部人员的电子邮件档案，或许还包括一些经常与奥巴马交流的外部人士。一名了解调查情况的官员称，他们能通过这些账户获得奥巴马发送和接收的电子邮件。
White House officials said that no classified networks had been compromised, and that the hackers had collected no classified information. Many senior officials have two computers in their offices, one operating on a highly secure classified network and another connected to the outside world for unclassified communications.
白宫官员称，没有任何机密网络被攻破，而黑客也未能获得任何机密信息。许多高级官员的办公室都有两台电脑，一台在高度保密的网络上工作，另一台与外部世界连接，进行非保密性质的交流。
But officials have conceded that the unclassified system routinely contains much information that is considered highly sensitive: schedules, email exchanges with ambassadors and diplomats, discussions of pending personnel moves and legislation, and, inevitably, some debate about policy.
但官员承认，非机密系统经常包含很多被认为是高度敏感的信息：日程安排、与大使和外交官的电子邮件往来、对待定人事变动和立法的讨论，以及不可避免地涉及有关政策的一些争论。
Officials did not disclose the number of Mr. Obama’s emails that were harvested by hackers, nor the sensitivity of their content. The president’s email account itself does not appear to have been hacked. Aides say that most of Mr. Obama’s classified briefings — such as the morning Presidential Daily Brief — are delivered orally or on paper (sometimes supplemented by an iPad system connected to classified networks) and that they are usually confined to the Oval Office or the Situation Room.
官员们未透露黑客窃取到的奥巴马电子邮件的数量，也未透露被盗内容的敏感性。奥巴马的电子邮件帐户本身似乎并未遭到入侵。总统的助手说，奥巴马的大多数机密信息， 比如早晨的总统每日简报(Presidential Daily Brief)是用口头或纸张形式提供的，（有时也用一台与机密网络连接的iPad系统作为辅助），这些纸张和系统通常不出白宫椭圆形办公室或战情室(Situation Room)。
Still, the fact that Mr. Obama’s communications were among those hit by the hackers — who are presumed to be linked to the Russian government, if not working for it — has been one of the most closely held findings of the inquiry. Senior White House officials have known for months about the depth of the intrusion.
尽管如此，奥巴马的通信也在黑客袭击所获的那些信息之内这一事实，一直是该调查最严格保密的发现之一，那些黑客据推测与俄罗斯政府有关，如果不是直接为其工作的话。白宫高级官员好几个月前就知道了这次入侵的深度。
“This has been one of the most sophisticated actors we’ve seen,” said one senior American official briefed on the investigation.
了解调查内情的一位美国高级官员说，“这是我们所见过的最老练的行动之一。”
Others confirmed that the White House intrusion was viewed as so serious that officials met on a nearly daily basis for several weeks after it was discovered. “It’s the Russian angle to this that’s particularly worrisome,” another senior official said.
其他人证实，白宫系统遭侵据认是如此严重，以至于其被发现后，官员们几乎每天开碰面会达几周之久。另一位高级官员说，“行动与俄罗斯有关，这点尤其令人担忧。”
Inside the White House, the intrusion has raised a new debate about whether it is possible to protect a president’s electronic presence, especially when it reaches out from behind the presumably secure firewalls of the executive branch.
黑客的入侵在白宫内部引起是否有可能保护总统的电子存在的新辩论，尤其是这种存在延伸到行政部门想必安全的防火墙之外的时候。
Mr. Obama is no stranger to computer-network attacks. Nonetheless, he has long been a frequent user of email, and publicly fought the Secret Service in 2009 to retain his BlackBerry, a topic he has joked about in public. He was issued a special smartphone, and the list of those he can exchange emails with is highly restricted.
奥巴马对计算机网络攻击并不陌生。尽管如此，他早已在经常使用电子邮件，并为了保留自己的黑莓手机，曾在2009年与特勤局公开较量，后来他在公开场合还开过这个话题的玩笑。他有一部专用的智能手机，他能与之交换电子信的人名单受到高度的限制。
When asked about the investigation’s findings, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Bernadette Meehan, said, “We’ll decline to comment.” The White House has also declined to provide any explanations about how the breach was handled, though the State Department has been more candid about what kind of systems were hit and what it has done since to improve security. A spokesman for the F.B.I. declined to comment.
当被问及调查结果时，国家安全委员会(National Security Council)发言人贝尔纳黛特·米汉(Bernadette Meehan)说，“我们将拒绝对此发表评论。”白宫也拒绝就入侵被如何处理的问题提供任何解释，虽然国务院对哪类系统遭到袭击、及后来在提高安全性上采取了哪些措施等问题上更坦率。联邦调查局的发言人此也也不予置评。
Officials who discussed the investigation spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the hacking. While the White House has refused to identify the nationality of the hackers, others familiar with the investigation said that in both the White House and State Department cases, all signs pointed to Russians.
上述讨论调查的官员都因这次黑客入侵的微妙性要求不具名。虽然白宫拒绝确任黑客的国籍，但其他熟悉调查的人称，在白宫和国务院的网络被袭事件中，所有迹象都指向俄罗斯。
On Thursday, Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter revealed for the first time that Russian hackers had attacked the Pentagon’s unclassified systems, but said they had been identified and “kicked off.” Defense Department officials declined to say if the signatures of the attacks on the Pentagon appeared related to the White House and State Department attacks.
上周四，美国国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)首次透露，俄罗斯的黑客袭击了五角大楼的非机密系统，但他表示，黑客的身份已被确定，并已被“清除”。国防部官员拒绝透露袭击五角大楼系统的黑客特征，是否看来与袭击白宫和国务院系统的有关。
The discovery of the hacking in October led to a partial shutdown of the White House email system. The hackers appear to have been evicted from the White House systems by the end of October. But they continued to plague the State Department, whose system is much more far-flung. The disruptions were so severe that during the Iranian nuclear negotiations in Vienna in November, officials needed to distribute personal email accounts, to one another and to some reporters, to maintain contact.
去年10月黑客被发现后，白宫一度关闭了部分电子邮件系统。截至10月底，黑客似乎已经被清除出白宫的网络，但他们继续困扰着国务院的网络系统，因为国务院系统涉及的范围更广。入侵造成的中断如此严重，以至于去年11月在维也纳的伊朗核问题谈判期间，官员们不得不彼此或与记者交换他们的个人电子邮件地址，以保持联系。