MOSCOW — The classroom filled with slender young men and women in their first week of training at the Aeroflot academy for flight attendants. The men were all square-jawed and broad-shouldered, and the women to the last of them traffic-stopping beauties.
莫斯科——教室里坐满了身材细挑的青年男女，他们正在俄罗斯航空公司(Aeroflot)的空乘人员培训学校接受第一周培训。所有男学员都是宽肩方脸，女学员中个个都是能造成交通堵塞的美女。
Finding attractive cabin crews has never posed much of a problem for Aeroflot. Training Russians to be nice to customers, well, there’s the rub for the Russian airline and many other Russian businesses. But Aeroflot seems to have done it.
对俄航而言，寻找漂亮帅气的乘务员从来不是什么大问题。但把俄罗斯人训练成友好亲切的服务人员却是俄航和其他许多俄罗斯企业的难题。不过俄航似乎已经做到了。
Aeroflot, which says its classic Soviet emblem of a winged hammer and sickle now represents a smile, has been at the forefront of a broad and transformative trend in the Russian service industry brought about by the rising demands of middle-class consumers.
俄航称自己那个带翅膀的锤子镰刀经典苏联标志如今代表着微笑。在俄罗斯服务业广泛兴起的变革潮流中，俄航处在最前沿。这一股潮流是中产阶级消费者需求不断增加带来的。
Skytrax, a company in Britain that surveys passengers after flights, found that Aeroflot had the best service of any airline in Eastern Europe this year, a mini Velvet Revolution for a region accustomed to old ideas of Russian service.
英国公司Skytrax在飞行结束后对乘客进行了调查，发现俄航是今年东欧所有航空公司中服务最好的。在一个对俄罗斯服务的陈旧印象已经根深蒂固的地区，这是一场小型的天鹅绒革命(Velvet Revolution)。
Aeroflot beat American carriers like Delta and airlines offering old-school European service like Austrian Airlines.
俄航打败了像达美航空(Delta)这样的美国航空公司，以及像奥地利航空(Austrian Airlines)那样提供老派欧式服务的航空公司。
“Anna, you just showed the champagne bottle but didn’t say anything,” one instructor gently admonished a trainee, 23-year-old Anna Grishina.
“安娜，你只拿出了香槟酒瓶却一句话都没说，”一名培训老师温和地提醒23岁的受训学员安娜·格里辛娜(Anna Grishina)。
“This is the silent service of Soviet times,” the instructor went on. “You need to talk to her,” she said, indicating a fellow student posing as a passenger. “And you need to smile and smile and smile.”
“这是苏联时期的沉默式服务，”这名老师继续说道，“你必须和她交谈。”她指的是扮演乘客的另一名受训学员。“你必须微笑，微笑，再微笑。”
Gone are the scowls, the cold shoulders and the wordless encounters. Aeroflot introduced training that included compelling candidates to memorize dialogues of pleasantries and reinforcing rules on smiling. Its success in improving service is being taken to heart by other companies in Russia’s consumer industries.
瞪眼、无视和一声不吭地服务态度都没有了。俄航引进了培训，培训内容包括要求应聘者必须记住寒暄对话，强调微笑的规则。俄航在提升服务方面取得的成功正在被俄罗斯消费行业的其他企业牢记在心。
Airlines, restaurant chains and coffee shops are putting in place ever more elaborate service training that is yielding results; a new generation of Russian flight attendants, shop assistants and waitresses has become — amazingly, given this country’s sour attitude to friendly service for so many years — customer-oriented.
航空公司、连锁餐厅和咖啡厅都在落实更精细的服务培训，这些培训正在显露成效；新一代俄罗斯空乘、店员和服务员变得以顾客为本。考虑到这个国家多年来一直不屑于提供热情服务，这真是令人惊叹。
“It’s a really hot topic in Russian companies,” said Alex Sukharevsky, a partner and leader of the consumer goods practice in the former Soviet Union for McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, which has a booming business here advising retail companies.
“这真的是俄罗斯企业里的热门话题，”咨询公司麦肯锡公司(McKinsey & Company)的合伙人、麦肯锡在前苏联的消费品市场业务负责人亚历克斯·苏哈列夫斯基(Alex Sukharevsky)说。麦肯锡向零售企业提供咨询服务，在俄罗斯生意红火。
The trend is one sign, along with the demands for better governance seen in recent street protests, of how a decade of oil money trickling down is transforming Russian society. In politics as in business, rising wealth has given birth to rising demands from an expanding middle class.
这个潮流和最近街头抗议中要求政府改善治理手段的呼声都在说明，石油带来滚滚财富的这10年正对俄罗斯社会带来怎样的变革。政界也和商界一样，与日俱增的财富促使规模越来越壮大的中产阶级提出越来越多的需求。
“All of us know that Russian culture by definition is not the most client-oriented culture,” said Mr. Sukharevsky, a specialist on Russian customer service. He has taken a number of companies here through what he calls the “consumer experience transformation.”
“我们所有人都知道，俄罗斯文化在本质上不是最以客户为本的文化，”研究俄罗斯客户服务的专家苏哈列夫斯基说。他已引领许多俄罗斯公司完成了“客户体验革命”。
Russian service employees, it appears, can be trained to be nice. Rosinter, which operates T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants and Costa Coffee shops in Russia, has a training academy that focuses on customer service, as does Dixy, a grocery store chain. The national retail bank, Sberbank, has set about retraining 210,000 tellers to become “customer service specialists.”
看来俄罗斯服务业从业人员是能通过培训变得友好亲切的。和食品杂货连锁企业Dixy一样，负责经营俄罗斯境内的T.G.I. Friday’s餐厅和咖世家(Costa Coffee)门店的Rosinter也设立了一个主要针对客户服务的培训学校。全国性零售银行俄罗斯储蓄银行(Sberbank)也打算对21万名出纳员重新培训，以便让他们成为“客户服务专家”。
Baristas at Starbucks in Russia smile as brightly as anywhere else. McDonald’s internal training for managers in Russia follows a global curriculum, but it puts special emphasis here on “communication skills” and a course called “emotional leadership,” said Oksana Belaychuk, the company’s spokeswoman.
在俄罗斯的星巴克(Starbucks)门店里，服务员笑得和其他地方的服务员一样灿烂。麦当劳(McDonald)针对俄罗斯境内管理人员的内部培训遵循的是全球通用的课程设置，但麦当劳女发言人奥克萨娜·贝莱丘克(Oksana Belaychuk)表示，俄罗斯的培训特别重视“沟通技巧”和一门名为“情感领导”的课程。
And ahead of the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi in February, the Russian organizers have arranged stadium-size training courses for the university students and other volunteers who will usher visitors through the sites. The main message: Smile; be friendly.
距离明年2月的索契冬奥会尚有些时日，但俄罗斯主办方已经为大学生和其他志愿者安排了在体育场进行的培训课程。冬奥会期间，这些大学生和志愿者将在比赛场馆引导观众。培训的主题是：微笑、亲切。
Nadezhda L. Shvetsova, 27, a flight attendant in training for Aeroflot, described the lessons she received as “teaching people to be happy, to enjoy what they are doing and to have a positive outlook” — the thousand years of famine, invasion and misfortune that shaped the Russian mind-set notwithstanding.
27岁的娜杰日达·L·舍夫索娃(Nadezhda L. Shvetsova)是接受俄航培训的一名空乘。她说自己上的课“教人们开心，去享受自己从事的工作，建立积极的人生观”——尽管俄罗斯人的思维是几千年的饥荒、侵略和不幸塑造的。
The new training proposed by McKinsey focused on providing a sense of personal attention without taxing the attendant’s time.
麦肯锡新提出的培训项目注重提供一种个人关注感，但又不会让乘务人员付出更多时间。
The flight attendant, for example, should tell a passenger, “I hope you are comfortable,” but not ask, “Are you comfortable?” The first signals concern, but the latter might elicit an actual, and unwanted, response.
比如，空乘人员应该告诉乘客，“希望您旅途舒适，”而不是问“您觉得舒服吗？”前一种说话方式显示了关心，后一种则可能会引出一个如实的、她不希望听到的回答。
A pretense of friendship with strangers for commercial reasons was not a part of Russian culture before. And excessive smiling only recalled the Russian saying, “Laughter without reason is a sign of foolishness.”
以前，为了商业目的而和陌生人故作友好不属于俄罗斯文化。过多微笑只会让人想起俄罗斯的谚语“无缘无故的笑象征着愚蠢”。
Such notions had to go. McKinsey recommended that training cut through the culture by focusing on dialogues, in every one of which the flight attendant is pleasant and responsive. Russian companies, said Mr. Sukharevsky, the McKinsey adviser on customer service, are quickly importing the latest practices in customer service. Russia, he predicted, will soon “leapfrog the West” in customer service.
类似的观念都必须让位。麦肯锡建议称，培训会通过关注对话来改变这种文化，乘务员在每一次对话中都和蔼可亲、有问必答。麦肯锡就客户服务提供咨询服务的苏哈列夫斯基说，俄罗斯企业正在迅速引进客户服务领域的最新做法。他预计，俄罗斯很快就会在客户服务方面“超过西方”。
In its latest initiative, Aeroflot has borrowed from Asian carriers the practice of instructing flight attendants to kneel before passengers in business class so they can discuss drink and meal orders at eye level.
俄航最近的动作是，引进了亚洲的航空公司要求空乘人员跪着为商务舱乘客服务的做法，这样他们就能平视着乘客，讨论要点什么食品、饮品。
And so, in an all but otherworldly scene of in-flight nirvana for most of the flying public, who these days are accustomed to harried attendants and tiny packs of honey-roasted peanuts, the trainees knelt one before the other in the mock airplane aisle to offer glasses of Brut Dargent, a French white wine, with a broad smile.
因此，尽管乘客们如今已对不耐烦的空乘和小包的蜂蜜烤花生习以为常了，但对其中大部分人而言，受训人员在模拟的飞机过道里笑容满面地跪在对方面前，奉上一杯杯法国Brut Dargent白葡萄酒，简直就是想象中空中天堂里的场景。
“Can I take your order for a drink before we take off?” Ms. Grishina asked pleasantly.
“我能在飞机起飞前知道您想喝点什么吗？”格里申娜亲切地问。