MOSCOW — Russia agreed on Tuesday to build two new nuclear power reactors in Iran, with a possibility of six more after that, in a deal that greatly expands nuclear cooperation between the two countries.
莫斯科——本周二，俄罗斯同意在伊朗建造两个新的核电反应堆，之后还可能再建立另外六个。该交易极大地拓展了两国之间的核合作。
The agreement shows that Russia is pressing ahead with its own vision for ensuring that Iran does not build nuclear weapons, by supplying civilian power technology that will operate under international monitoring. The approach won acceptance from the International Atomic Energy Agency and, grudgingly, from the Bush administration over the last decade as Russia completed Iran’s first civilian nuclear plant, at Bushehr on the Persian Gulf coast.
从这项协议来看，俄罗斯正在推进自己的愿景：通过提供民用电力技术，并在国际监督下进行运作，以确保伊朗不制造核武器。过去十年里，这一做法赢得了国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)的首肯，也勉强获得布什政府的认可，而俄罗斯也在波斯湾沿岸的布什尔修建起了伊朗首座民用核电站。
The United States was initially critical of the Russian policy of providing civilian reactors to Iran, but later withdrew its objections. Russia agreed to complete the reactor, which was begun as a German project before the Iranian revolution of 1979, on the condition that all the nuclear fuel used at the plant over its lifetime be supplied and reprocessed by Russian companies.
俄罗斯为伊朗提供民用反应堆的政策，最初遭到了美国的批评，但后来美国撤回了异议。俄罗斯承诺完成的一个反应堆，原本是德国在1979年伊朗伊斯兰革命爆发前开启的一个项目。俄方提出的条件是，这座核电厂在其寿命年限内使用的所有核燃料，均由俄罗斯公司供应和再加工。
By demanding that Iran buy Russian reactor fuel, the authorities in Moscow deprived Iran of part of its justification for developing the ability to enrich uranium at home. But the deal has not halted the Iranian enrichment program. Iranian officials say they also require enriched uranium for medical purposes.
通过要求伊朗从俄罗斯购买反应堆燃料，伊朗自己开发浓缩铀技术的部分理由就不复存在了。但该交易并未终止伊朗的铀浓缩计划。伊朗官员们说，他们在医疗领域也需要浓缩铀。
The United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia and other nations want the enrichment program to be shut down because the same industrial process, using centrifuges, can be used to produce materials for nuclear weapons. Critics of the Russian policy say any nuclear technology transfer to Iran is dangerous.
美国、以色列、沙特阿拉伯等国家想让伊朗终止铀浓缩计划，因为这个工业制程使用了离心机，可以用来生产核武器所需的材料。一些人批评俄罗斯的政策，认为向伊朗转移任何核技术都很危险。
The director of the Russian state nuclear power company, Sergei Kiriyenko, signed the agreement for the additional reactors in Moscow on Monday with his Iranian counterpart, Ali Akbar Salehi, at a televised ceremony at the headquarters of the company, known as Rosatom.
本周一，在莫斯科俄罗斯国家原子能公司(Rosatom)的总部，公司负责人谢尔盖·基里延科(Sergei Kiriyenko)与伊朗核能领域最高官员阿里·阿克巴尔·萨利希(Ali Akbar Salehi)签署了修建新反应堆的协议，电视播放了签约仪式。
The two new reactors will be of the pressurized water type and will be built next to the Bushehr plant, Rosatom said in a statement. Construction and fuel handling will be monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency, as it was for the existing plant, the company said.
俄罗斯国家原子能公司在一份声明中说，这两个新反应堆属于压水型，将于明年在布什尔核电厂旁边修建。该公司表示，和现有电厂一样，新反应堆的修建和燃料处理工作也将在国际原子能机构的监督下进行。
After that, another two reactors could be built at Bushehr and four at a location still to be determined, it said. Rosatom said it also foresees setting up local production of zirconium-sheathed fuel rods in Iran, though the uranium would still originate in Russia.
声明称，之后可能还会再在布什尔修建两个反应堆，另外四个反应堆的位置尚未确定。俄罗斯国家原子能公司说，他们还打算在伊朗作出布置，在当地生产用锆材料保护的燃料棒，但铀仍然来自俄罗斯。
Broadly, Russia has pressed ahead with exports of nuclear reactors to developing countries, including Iran, despite concern about nuclear safety after the Fukushima disaster in Japan. Russia has built plants in India and is seeking more projects throughout Southeast Asia. It is experimenting with minireactors for small countries, and with models that could float on pontoons berthed in bustling Third-World ports.
尽管发生日本福岛灾难后，人们比较担心核安全问题，但总体来说，俄罗斯仍在继续努力，把核反应堆出口到包括伊朗在内的发展中国家。俄罗斯已经在印度修建了核电厂，目前正在东南亚各处寻求更多的核项目机会。它正在试验可用于小国的微型反应堆，其中一些可以装在驳船上，停靠在第三世界国家繁忙的港口。
The program helps Russia put to productive civilian use the excess uranium enrichment capacity it has had since the end of the Cold War reduced sharply the country’s military needs. About 40 percent of the world’s uranium enrichment capacity is in Russia.
该计划有助于俄罗斯把过剩的铀浓缩产能投入民用生产；自冷战的结束后，该国的军事需求急剧减少，产能过剩的情况就一直存在。俄罗斯目前拥有全球约40%的铀浓缩产能。
Also, under legislation that in a freer political system might have proved more difficult to push through Parliament, Russia allows the importation of materials that have been irradiated in nuclear reactors. Spent fuel contains plutonium, which can be used to build bombs, and the legal authority to take spent fuel back to Russia from plants abroad is central to the country’s plans for expanding its nuclear sales.
此外，根据一项立法，俄罗斯允许进口在核反应堆中被辐射过的材料；这样的立法，在一个更加自由的政治制度中，要在国会通过可能会相当困难。用过的燃料中含有钚，它可以被用来制造核弹，根据这项立法，当局可以把国外电厂用过的燃料送回到俄罗斯，这是该国扩大其核销售计划的关键核心。
The agreement signed with Iran on Tuesday envisions sharing some reactor technology with Iran. The two new reactors, and possibly two more at Bushehr, would be imported from Russia, but after that, further reactors would be built in Iran with Russian assistance, according to a Rosatom statement. All would use Russian fuel, even the Iranian-built ones.
在本周二签署的这项协议中，俄罗斯表示愿意与伊朗分享某些反应堆技术。布什尔的两个新反应堆，以及可能建设的另外两个，将会从俄罗斯进口，但在那之后，其他反应堆将在俄罗斯的帮助下，在伊朗当地修建，俄罗斯国家原子能公司在一份声明中说。所有反应堆都会使用俄罗斯的燃料，即便在伊朗建造的那些也是如此。
“With this, the parties intend to ensure the maximum possible participation of enterprises and organizations of the Islamic Republic of Iran in all works related to the construction of new power units,” the statement said.
该声明说，“在这样的安排下，各方将确保伊朗伊斯兰共和国的企业与组织在最大程度上参与新核电设施的所有修建工作。”
Russia has remained active in international negotiations with Iran despite the strains in Moscow’s relations with the West over the crisis in Ukraine. Secretary of State John Kerry said that talks in Oman on Monday failed to make much headway.
尽管莫斯科与西方的关系因乌克兰危机变得紧张，俄罗斯一直在积极参与和伊朗展开的国际核谈。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)说，本周一在阿曼进行的会谈没有取得多大进展。