BRUSSELS — Russia and Ukraine failed on Wednesday to end an acrimonious standoff over the price of natural gas supplied by the Russian energy giant Gazprom, dashing hopes that the election of a new Ukrainian president might ease a dispute that has long poisoned relations between Moscow and Kiev. The failure to reach a deal also raised concern in Europe that its own supplies of energy from Russia could be interrupted.
布鲁塞尔——周三，俄罗斯和乌克兰未能终结双方之间剑拔弩张的僵局。矛盾的焦点是俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）的天然气报价。乌克兰新总统的当选或许能缓和两国长期交恶的关系的希望，也因此化为泡影。双方未能达成协议也使欧洲担忧，俄罗斯可能会中断对欧洲的能源供应。
After a second day of talks brokered by the European Commission in Brussels, the two sides remained far apart on the issue of how much Ukraine should pay Gazprom for the gas imports it needs to keep its economy running and how much it owes Russia for past deliveries that went unpaid because of arguments over price.
在布鲁塞尔，由欧盟委员会(European Commission)撮合双方进行的谈判进行了两天后，双方对两个问题的分歧仍然巨大：一是乌克兰该向俄气公司付多少钱，来进口乌方维持其经济运转所必须的天然气，二是乌克兰此前因存在价格分歧，拖欠俄罗斯的购气款有多少。
“Such negotiations are difficult enough, and there is a political situation that makes them even harder,” Günther Oettinger, the European Union’s energy commissioner, told a news conference after the negotiations broke down. “We are talking about billions of dollars, major economic interests and major business interests that are at odds with each other.”
谈判破裂后，欧盟负责能源事务的欧委会委员金特·厄廷格(Günther Oettinger)在新闻发布会上说，“此类谈判难度极大，眼下的政局让谈判变得更难了。我们是在谈数十亿美元的生意，双方的重要经济利益和重要商业利益存在冲突。”
Russia and Ukraine have been squabbling almost nonstop since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union over the price Kiev pays for Russian natural gas, but the dispute reached a new pitch following the ouster in February of Ukraine’s pro-Russian president, Viktor F. Yanukovych. Russia responded to Mr. Yanukovych’s fall at the hands of protesters it denounced as Western-backed fascists by raising its gas price by more than 80 percent.
自1991年苏联解体后，俄乌双方就一直因天然气价格争执不下。不过，随着今年2月亲俄的乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)被示威者推翻，争执达到了新高度。俄罗斯谴责抗议者是受西方支持的法西斯分子。俄方对亚努科维奇被赶下台一事做出的反应是，将提供给乌克兰的天然气价格提高了超过80%。
Russia’s energy minister, Alexander Novak, said Wednesday that Moscow had offered a reduced price of $385 per 1,000 cubic meters, describing it as “very much a market price,” and warned that Ukraine had until Monday to reach an agreement before it faced demands that it pay in advance or risk being cut off.
俄罗斯能源部长亚历山大·诺瓦克(Alexander Novak)周三表示，俄方已经给出了每千立方米385美元（约合2400元人民币）的折扣价，他说这“基本上是市场价”。他还警告，乌克兰必须在周一前达成协议，否则俄方就会要求提前付款，如不付款，俄方可能就会切断供气。
President Vladimir V. Putin, at a meeting with senior members of the Russian government, described Russia’s offer as fair and said it was below what Poland and some other neighboring countries paid for the gas. He urged Ukrainian authorities to take the deal while it remained on the table.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在与本国政府高官开会时称，俄罗斯的报价是公平的。他说，该报价比俄方给波兰和其他一些邻国的报价还低。他敦促乌克兰当局抓住时机，接受这个价格。
“We believe that our proposal, even more than a partnership, is aimed at supporting the Ukrainian economy, at a complex enough time, to help,” Mr. Putin said.
普京说，“我们相信，我们的提议比伙伴关系还优惠，旨在支持乌克兰经济度过当前的复杂时期。我们是在帮忙。”
“But if our proposals are rejected, then we move into a completely different stage. This is not our choice, we do not want it. But if so, we will live in another dimension,” he added.
他还说，“不过，如果我们的报价被拒，事态就会进入截然不同的阶段。这不是我们的选择，我们也不想这么做。然而如果真的发生，局面就会完全不同。”
Yuri Prodan, Ukraine’s energy minister, blamed the latest failure to reach an accord on what he described as Russia’s refusal to accept a fair market price fixed by economic rather than political forces. The new Russian offer, below the $485 currently demanded by Gazprom but far above a price of $268.50 offered in December to Mr. Yanukovych, was rejected by Mr. Prodan as “unacceptable.”
乌克兰能源部长尤里·普罗丹(Yuri Prodan)将双方未能取得共识的责任归咎于俄罗斯。他说，原因是俄方不肯接受由经济力量、而非政治力量决定的公平的市场价格。俄罗斯的新报价，低于俄气公司目前每千立方米485美元的要价，但是比去年12月俄方给亚努科维奇提供的268.5美元的报价高出一大截。普罗丹回绝了新报价，称那是“不可接受的”。
Mr. Prodan said that the proposed price was higher than what some European countries farther away from Russia had to pay, and that it had not been set by market forces but what he called a “political mechanism.”
普罗丹表示，这一报价高于一些远离俄罗斯的欧洲国家需要支付的价格，决定价格的不是市场力量，而是他所说的“政治机制”。
“We have seen these mechanisms in the past and we cannot accept them,” Mr. Prodan told reporters in Brussels. The problem, he said, was that Russia had reached its new price offer by simply agreeing to waive an export tariff, a decision that he said could be easily reversed by the Russian government.
普罗丹在布鲁塞尔对记者们说，“我们过去就见识过这种机制，我们不能接受。”他表示，问题是俄罗斯提出的新价格只是豁免了一项出口关税，而他称俄罗斯政府很容易推翻这一决定。
No new round of formal talks has been scheduled before Monday, but all sides pledged to try to reach a settlement before then. “Monday is still quite a way off. We feel there is still a good chance of reaching an agreement,” Mr. Oettinger, the European Union’s senior energy official, said.
周一之前没有安排新一轮的正式会谈，但各方都承诺努力在此之前达成协议。欧盟高级能源官员厄廷格表示，“距离周一还有一段时间。我们认为达成协议还有很大机会。”
The 28-nation European bloc has lobbied hard to prod Russia and Ukraine toward an agreement so as to avoid a repeat of a price dispute in 2009 that led Russia to shut off all gas supplies to Europe. That led to a grave energy crisis in Bulgaria and a number of European countries that are heavily dependent on Russian gas. The heads of both Gazprom and Ukraine’s state gas company, Naftogaz, were in Brussels for the talks along with the energy ministers, but the question of price has been deeply entangled in the tumultuous political relations between Moscow and Kiev. Ukrainian governments that Moscow sees as friendly tend to get a much lower price than those it objects to.
欧盟极力游说推动俄乌两国达成协议，以避免2009年的价格争端重演，那次争端导致俄罗斯完全切断了对欧洲的天然气供应。于是，保加利亚及一些极其依赖俄罗斯天然气的欧洲国家发生了严重的能源危机。俄气公司及乌克兰石油天然气公司(Naftogaz)的负责人都来到了布鲁塞尔，与能源部长们一起参加会谈，但价格问题深受莫斯科与基辅之间动荡的政治关系的影响。历届乌克兰政府中，在俄罗斯看来友好的政府，往往能得到低得多的价格，而俄罗斯反感的政府却不能。
At Wednesday’s government meeting in Moscow, Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev said Russia was willing to lower the gas price even though Russia’s own economy was not doing well. He chastised the Ukrainian prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, without naming him, for suggesting that Russia was laying a trap.
周三，在莫斯科参加政府会议时，俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)表示，俄罗斯愿意降低天然气价格，尽管俄罗斯自身的经济发展并不理想。他不点名地批评道，乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)暗示俄罗斯在设置陷阱。
“In order to support our Ukrainian partners whose economy is in a very difficult position, we are ready to go for it, as you commit,” Mr. Medvedev told Mr. Putin at the cabinet meeting. He added, “Of course, our Ukrainian partners in the government need not talk about ‘traps set by Russia’ and should remember there are outstanding debts for gas, which at any moment can turn into a demand for prepayment, and it will be, as you quite rightly said, a completely different stage of our gas negotiations.”
梅德韦杰夫在内阁会议上告诉普京，“为了支持经济陷入困境的乌克兰伙伴，我们已经准备好这样做了，就像你承诺的那样。”他还表示，“当然，乌克兰政府中的某些朋友不用说什么‘俄罗斯设置的陷阱’，而是应该记住，还有些天然气账单没有付清，我们任何时候都可以要求你们提前付款。你说的很对，到时候，我们的天然气谈判会进入完全不同的阶段。”