MOSCOW — Russia has denied having any compromising material on President-elect Donald J. Trump, saying on Wednesday that an uncorroborated report containing salacious allegations about him was “pulp fiction” intended to hurt Russian-American relations.
莫斯科——周三，俄罗斯否认掌握了美国候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的任何不雅材料，称一份毫无根据的涉黄报告是“低俗小说”，旨在破坏俄美关系。
“The Kremlin has no compromising dossier on Mr. Trump, such information is not consistent with reality and is nothing but an absolute fantasy,” Dmitri S. Peskov, the Kremlin’s spokesman, said at a regular news briefing.
克里姆林宫的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S.Peskov)在定期的新闻发布会上说，克里姆林宫并没有掌握特朗普的不雅材料，这种说法与现实不符，完全是幻想。
“There are people who foment this hysteria, who move heaven and earth to keep up this ‘witch hunt,’ ” Mr. Peskov said. “By the way, this is how Mr. Trump characterized this fabrication.”
“有些人在煽动这种歇斯底里症，他们作天作地，要继续搞这种‘猎巫’活动，”佩斯科夫说。“顺便说一下，这是特朗普对于这种无稽之谈的说法。”
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said on Twitter that the report, supposedly collected by the Russian authorities with the intention of being able to blackmail him in the future, amounted to “FAKE NEWS — A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT!”
周二，特朗普在Twitter上表示，说俄罗斯当局收集了可以在将来用于勒索他的材料，这完全是“假新闻——完全是政治上的猎巫！”
The report, comprising a series of memos, describes sex videos involving Mr. Trump and prostitutes at a Moscow hotel in 2013. The videos were supposedly recorded as “kompromat,” a Russian word used to describe compromising material that can be used to gain leverage.
该报告包含一系列备忘录，描述了2013年特朗普和妓女在莫斯科一家酒店的的性爱视频。该视频被认为是“kompromat”，这个俄语单词指的是可以用来当作筹码的不雅材料。
The report was compiled mainly by a retired British intelligence operative who received information from Russian informants and others. It was prepared for a Washington political and corporate research firm, and was paid for by Mr. Trump’s political rivals.
该报告主要由一名退休的英国情报人员编制，他从俄罗斯的线人和其他人那里接获信息。报告是为一个华盛顿政治和企业研究公司所准备的，其资助者是特朗普的政敌。
In Moscow, Russian officials and lawmakers described these and other allegations linking Russia to the president-elect as part of a campaign to undermine Mr. Trump’s stated goal of improving ties with that country.
在莫斯科，俄罗斯官员和议员说，这种指控俄罗斯和特朗普勾结的说法，是为了破坏特朗普曾说过的要改善俄美关系的目标。
“President Obama’s administration does whatever is possible to impede Mr. Trump’s activities during his tenure as president,” said Sergei Zheleznyak, a member of the Russian Parliament.
俄罗斯国家杜马副主席谢尔盖·热列兹尼亚克(Sergei Zheleznyak)说：“在奥巴马担任总统期间，他的政府不择手段地阻挠特朗普。”
Over the last week, the term “witch hunt” has also been used by other Russian officials to describe allegations against them. On Monday, Mr. Peskov described an American intelligence report that accused the Kremlin of meddling with the 2016 presidential race as an “amateurish” work compiled as part of a “witch hunt” against Russia.
在过去一周，其他俄罗斯官员也用“猎巫”这个词来形容针对他们的指控。本周一，佩斯科夫说美国的一份情报指责克里姆林宫干预2016年总统竞选很“业余”，是针对俄罗斯的“猎巫”活动。
Russian-American relations have been plagued by a series of scandals despite efforts in the late 2000s by President Obama and the Russian president at the time, Dmitri A. Medvedev, to reset them. The countries have accused each other of trying to influence their domestic politics, and they have imposed sanctions against each other.
俄美关系一直被一系列丑闻所困扰，尽管在21世纪第一个10年的末期，奥巴马总统和当时的俄罗斯总统德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)试图重建关系。两国都指责对方试图干涉本国政治，并且互相进行了制裁。