MOSCOW — A business owner in Russia has a better chance of ending up in the penal colony system once known as the gulag than a common burglar does.
莫斯科——在俄罗斯，企业主比普通盗贼更有可能被送进曾被称为古拉格的牢狱营系统。
More than 110,000 people are serving time for what Russia calls “economic crimes,” out of a population of about three million self-employed people and owners of small and medium-size businesses. An additional 2,500 are in jails awaiting trial for this class of crimes that includes fraud, but can also include embezzlement, counterfeiting and tax evasion.
目前有超过11万人因俄罗斯所谓的“经济犯罪”正在服刑，而该国从事自由职业和拥有中小企业的人口总共约为300万。另外还有2500人因同类罪名在等待审判，经济犯罪不仅包括欺诈，也包括贪污、伪造和逃税等。
But with the Russian economy languishing, President Vladimir V. Putin has devised a plan for turning things around: offer amnesty to some of the imprisoned business people.
然而，俄罗斯经济一直萎靡不振，于是总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)想出了一个扭转局面的方案：赦免一部分在狱中服刑的企业人士。
“This can be understood in the Russian context,” Boris Titov, Mr. Putin’s ombudsman for entrepreneurs’ rights, said of what is, even by the standards of the global recession, a highly unusual stimulus effort.
“考虑到俄罗斯的国情，这种做法是可以理解的。”普京手下负责企业家权利申诉的专员鲍里斯·蒂托夫(Boris Titov)在提到这个方案时说，即使考虑到全球经济衰退的各种情况，这也一种十分不同寻常的刺激方案。
The amnesty is needed, he said, because the government had “overreacted” to the threat of organized crime and the inequities of privatization and over-prosecuted entrepreneurs during Mr. Putin’s first 12 years in power as president and prime minister.
他说，赦免是有必要的，因为在普京分别担任总统和首相执政的前12年中，政府对有组织犯罪和私有化的不平等所带来的威胁“反应过度”，对企业家的诉讼过度了 。
Russia’s economy does need help. In the first quarter, growth fell to a rate of 1.6 percent because oil prices are level. And in that economic climate, few Russians seem willing to risk opening a new business that might create jobs and tax revenue for the government.
俄罗斯经济的确需要帮助。第一季度的增长率降到只有1.6%，因为石油价格没有变化。在这种经济环境下，几乎没有俄罗斯人看来愿意冒险创办新企业，从而制造就业机会，进而为政府增加税收。
Mr. Putin told an audience of chief executives at an economic forum, including Michael L. Corbat of Citigroup and Jeffrey R. Immelt of General Electric, that releasing some businessmen would help revive the economy with “the values of economic freedom and the work and success of entrepreneurs.”
普京告诉出席一次经济论坛的首席执行官听众们，释放一些实业家将会以 “经济自由以及企业家的工作和成功的价值”来帮助重振经济。听众中包括花旗集团(Citigroup)的迈克尔·L·科尔巴(Michael L. Corbat)和通用电气公司(General Electric)的杰弗里·R·伊梅尔特(Jeffrey R. Immelt)。
In 2010, the police investigated a total of 276,435 “economic crimes,” according to the Russian prosecutor general’s office, whose statistics show burglary and robbery are prosecuted less than economic crimes.
根据俄罗斯总检察长办公室的数据，2010年警方共调查了276,435起 “经济犯罪”案。该办公室的统计显示，盗窃和抢劫案被起诉的数量比经济犯罪案的要少。
In the “zone,” as the prison camps are known in colloquial Russian, the business owners live, as nearly all Russian prisoners do, in squat wood or brick barracks. It is a grim, violent and disease-ridden world, they say.
牢狱营在俄罗斯口语中被称为“区”，在那里服刑的企业家住在低矮的木质或砖造的营房里，几乎所有的俄罗斯罪犯都住在这种地方。他们说，那是一个阴暗、暴力、疾病肆虐的世界。
These newcomers are for the most part nonviolent, though many are recidivists. Several indicated in interviews that they did well in prison, having the skills that matter: the ability to boss around other inmates, avoid abuse and bargain with the guards for little extras like cigarette butts or pillows.
这些新犯人在大多数情况下不是暴力犯罪者，但很多人是惯犯。一些人在采访中表示，他们在狱中过得不错，他们拥有重要的技能：会使唤其他罪犯，避免遭受虐待，会跟狱警作交易，从而得到一些额外的东西，比如烟头或枕头。
Mr. Titov, an amiable former oil products trader who speaks bluntly about corruption in spite of his government job, spends his time combing through the list of economic criminals with a team of lawyers, trying to free as many as possible. “We fight for every one,” he said.
蒂托夫曾是一名和蔼可亲的石油产品交易商，虽然他现在为政府工作，但谈起腐败来他很坦率。他现在和一些律师一起花很多时间梳理经济罪犯的名单，试图尽可能多地把人放出来。他说，“我们为每一个人奋斗。”
One of those Mr. Titov championed was Ruslan V. Tyelkov, whose short arc from businessman to inmate illustrates both the entrepreneurial spirit that still simmers in Russia and the risks. Mr. Tyelkov, a strapping 32-year-old from Moscow, invested nearly his last ruble to open a wholesale upholstery business that could hardly have gone wrong in Russia: selling leopard-print fabrics.
蒂托夫为之奋斗的人当中有一位叫鲁斯兰·V·泰伊尔科夫(Ruslan V. Tyelkov)，他从商人到罪犯的短暂经历表明，创业精神仍在俄罗斯酝酿着，但也极具风险。一表人才的泰伊尔科夫现年32岁，是莫斯科人，他用自己几乎所有的财产投资开办了一家装潢材料批发店，做的是在俄罗斯几乎不可能出问题的生意：销售豹纹面料。
In 2010, Mr. Tyelkov spent the equivalent of $31,000 for 25,000 yards of Chinese-made leopard-print fabric suitable for chairs and sofas. “It’s very popular here, not only for furniture but cloths, wallpaper, sheets, shoes, bags, everything.”
2010年，泰伊尔科夫花了相当于3.1万美元（约合21万元人民币）的钱，购买了2.5万码中国制造的、适用于椅子和沙发的豹纹面料。他说，“这种料子在这里很流行，不仅用在家具上，还可以做衣服、墙纸、被单、鞋子、箱包，什么都行。”
With no warning, the police arrived at his warehouses and removed every roll on six flatbed trucks, handing it over to a competitor, ostensibly for storage, though it was later sold. Then they arrested Mr. Tyelkov, who spent a year in pretrial detention.
在没有任何警告的情况下，警察突然来到他的库房，把放在六个平板卡车上的面料全部拿走，一卷没剩地交给了一个竞争者，谎称保存起来，其实后来被卖掉了。之后，他们逮捕了泰伊尔科夫，他被审前羁押了一年的时间。
The crime? The police said they suspected copyright infringement of the leopard design. “It was funny at first,” recalled Mr. Tyelkov of his initial meeting with the police. “I asked, ‘Who owns the copyright, a leopard?’ ”
罪名是什么？警方说他们怀疑他侵犯了豹纹设计的版权。泰伊尔科夫回忆自己首次与警察见面时的情景说，“一开始很可笑。我问，‘谁拥有设计版权？是豹子吗？’”
Mr. Titov’s later investigation confirmed the police had colluded with a competitor to seize the merchandise under the pretext of a criminal case, so it could be sold for a profit.
蒂托夫后来的调查证实，是警察与一名商业竞争者串通，假借犯罪案件之名扣押了那些货物，为的是把它们卖掉赚点钱。
While his business was ruined, Mr. Tyelkov said he did manage to apply his skills to the small challenges of life in jail. He rose to become the informal leader of the cell he shared with a killer, a militant and several drug addicts.
泰伊尔科夫的生意虽然被毁了，但他说，他还是设法把自己的技能用到了应对牢狱生活的小挑战上。他荣升为所在牢房的非正式领袖，牢房里还关着一个杀人犯、一名武装分子和几个吸毒成瘾者。
One business owner, the founder of a chain of computer stores, ran his legal operation for nine years from prison, Mr. Titov said, much as some drug kingpins do.
蒂托夫说，一个电脑连锁店的创业者在狱中合法运营他的公司达9年之久，就像一些毒枭做的那样。
Incarceration has not gone so smoothly for everyone. In his first year in a penal colony in Siberia, the former oil tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was stabbed in the face with a shank, or homemade knife. The warden said another inmate was fending off an unwanted sexual advance, something Mr. Khodorkovsky’s press aides denied.
狱中生活并不是对每个人来说都这么顺利。前石油大亨米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)在西伯利亚一个流放地的第一年曾被人用自制砍刀砍伤了脸。监狱长说那个同狱犯人是为了抵挡一次不受欢迎的性要求才那样做的，霍多尔科夫斯基的新闻助理否认了性要求的说法。
While Mr. Khodorkovsky was in prison his company, Yukos, once the largest private company in Russia, went bankrupt, though investors had valued it as worth more than $40 billion before the arrest.
霍多尔科夫斯基在狱中服刑期间，他的公司尤科斯石油公司(Yukos)破产了，这家公司曾是俄罗斯最大的私有公司，而霍多尔科夫斯基被捕之前，投资者对该公司的估价超过400亿美元。
Most of the imprisoned are not there for any political reason. Their incarceration has to do with the nature of Russian corruption, said Elena Panfilova, the director of the Russian branch of Transparency International, a nonprofit group that studies corruption around the globe. Run-of-the-mill bribery schemes, practiced from China to Mexico, usually involve the police, fire inspectors or other regulators asking for payments on the side to allow a business to operate. In these instances, the interests of the business owners and corrupt officials are aligned — both ultimately want the enterprise to succeed.
大多数服刑人员入狱的原因都与政治无关。透明国际(Transparency International)俄罗斯分部主任叶连娜·潘菲洛娃(Elena Panfilova)说，他们被关押与俄罗斯的腐败本质有关，透明国际是一个研究全球腐败问题的非营利组织。从中国到墨西哥，常用的贿赂策划中往往涉及警察、消防检查员或其他监管者，他们暗地里要求业主给他们钱，作为允许企业运营的报酬。在这些情况下，商人和腐败官员的利益是一致的，他们最终都希望生意兴隆。
But in Russia, the police benefit from arrests. They profit by soliciting a bribe from a rival to remove competition, by taking money from the family for release, or by selling seized goods. Promotion depends on an informal quota of arrests. Police officers who seize businesses became common enough to have earned the nickname “werewolves in epaulets.”
但是在俄罗斯，警察却从逮捕中获利。警察获利的方法包括，向商人的竞争对手索要贿赂，为他们消除竞争；向被捕商人的家属要钱以放人；再就是贩卖扣押的货物。警察的提升取决于一个没有明文规定的逮捕配额。扣押商人的警察如此常见，以至于他们赢得了“带肩章的狼人”这一绰号。
In the first month of the amnesty program, now six months old, the courts released 13 prisoners. The law applies to 27 crimes, including credit fraud and fraud in entrepreneurial activities, and applies to those who have been convicted once, or pleaded guilty if their case was pending, and have agreed to repay damages.
赦免方案目前已实施了6个月，在第一个月中，法院释放了13个犯人。这项法律适用于27个罪名，包括信用欺诈以及在企业活动中的欺诈行为，还适用于那些被判过一次刑，或是在案子候审时认了罪、并同意偿还损失的人。
The amnesty law, however, rules out release for Mr. Khodorkovsky, who was convicted twice on politically tinged charges.
然而，这一赦免法把霍多尔科夫斯基排除在外，因为他被判过两次刑，而且对他的指控带有政治色彩。