MOSCOW — Russia has never been an easy country in which to deliver packages because of its vast size. The government just made it a lot harder for anyone buying things online.
莫斯科——俄罗斯幅员辽阔，在这里寄送包裹从来不是件容易事。而政府最近又大大提高了人们通过网络购物的难度。
Russian customs officials cracked down on online shopping that gets around paying duties on items such as boots or electronics, all in demand here.
俄罗斯海关官员对在网上购买商品，从而逃避缴纳关税的行为开展了打击，畅销的商品包括靴子和电子产品。
Under the new customs rules, couriers must prove a package contains nothing more valuable than the duty-free limit — 150 euros, or about $200. The result has been couriers refusing to deliver most packages.
根据新的海关规章，快递公司必须证明一个包裹内的商品价值不超过免税额——150欧元（约合1240元人民币）。结果导致快递公司拒绝寄送大多数包裹。
The custom rules are elaborate, according to the Russian newspaper Vedomosti. The companies must provide authorities the receipt for the purchase and a passport number of the buyer, among other documents
俄罗斯报纸《新闻报》(Vedomosti)报道，这些新的关税规定十分详尽，要求公司必须向政府提供购物收据，以及购买者的护照号码，以及其他一些文件。
The legal requirements to deliver a package in Russia have become so onerous that several express delivery services, including FedEx, United Parcel Service and DHL, announced this week that they have halted all shipments of goods to individuals.
在俄国寄送包裹的法律要求变得如此严格，以至于包括联邦快递(FedEx)、联合包裹服务(United Parcel Service)和DHL在内的几家快递服务公司，本周宣布已经完全暂停向个人送货。
International courier services have struggled elsewhere with similar restrictions limiting cross-border online shopping. Argentina, buffeted by a host of economic woes including its plummeting currency, also has a rule in which packages are no longer delivered to a person’s home.
在其他对跨境网上购物有着类似限制的地方，国际快递公司同样面临困难。遭受货币急剧贬值等一系列经济问题猛烈打击的阿根廷，也规定包裹不能再寄到个人家里。
On Wednesday, Argentina limited residents to two customs-free purchases a year as long as the items are worth less than $25. Anything else bought from an overseas website needs to be collected at a customs office, where the buyer has to sign a declaration and pay a 50 percent duty.
周三，阿根廷出台规定，居民一年内只能购买两次免税商品，前提是商品价值不超过25美元（约合150元人民币）。而从外国网站购买的其他所有商品，都需要买家到海关领取，届时买家必须报关，并缴纳50%的关税。
Many countries have customs rules governing overseas online packages. Australia, for example, is considering lowering the dollar limit of tax-free purchases. And in America, states have struggled over whether to assess sales taxes on online purchases. An increasing number of states, urged on by local merchants, have chosen to insist that online merchants domiciled in other states collect taxes.
很多国家都有涉及海外网上购物的海关规定。比如，澳大利亚就在考虑降低购买免税商品的金额限制。而在美国，各州也在考虑要不要对网上购物征收消费税。在本州商户的敦促下，越来越多的州要求注册在其他州的在线商户向买家收税。
Dominant American e-commerce companies have struggled in a number of emerging markets, unable to compete because of delivery and payment problems. Local companies, including those that are unabashed copycats of American giants like eBay or Amazon, have sprung up in the developing markets.
美国主要电子商务公司在一些新兴市场中苦苦挣扎，因为快递及支付问题而无力参加竞争。一些当地企业在新兴市场中迅速涌现，包括一些公然效仿eBay或亚马逊(Amazon)等美国巨头的公司。
The customs rules in Russia have had the effect of protecting local e-commerce start-ups. Ozon, for instance, relies in part on a model of asking customers to pick up goods at distribution centers, rather than wait for a courier or the unreliable state mail system.
俄罗斯的关税规定已经起到了保护当地电子商务初创公司的作用。比如Ozon，该公司在一定程度上依靠一种不同的模式，要求客户前往配送中心提货，而不是等待快递员或不可靠的国有邮政系统。
Russia is already a difficult country for mail: it covers a sixth of the Earth’s land surface. Norilsk, a large city in Siberia, has no year-round road or railroad connections, and sometimes is reachable only by air or icebreaker.
邮递在俄罗斯一直是一个难题：俄罗斯占据了地球六分之一的面积。西伯利亚的大城市诺里尔斯克没有全年开放的道路或铁路线路，有时只能乘飞机或破冰船前往。
Russia, long ignored by online retailers, just recently appeared on the radar of overseas online companies because the rising wealth of consumers started to outweigh the delivery and payment woes. The new customs holdup is no small matter: With a population of 143 million, Russia has surpassed Germany as the European country with the most Internet users.
由于消费者日益增多的财富超越了配送和支付的巨大问题，长期被在线零售商忽略的俄罗斯，最近才刚刚受到外国网络公司的关注。海关的新障碍可不是小事：俄罗斯有1.43亿人口，已经超过德国，成为欧洲网络用户最多的国家。
The couriers, which announced the decision through a trade association, said the halt might be temporary but the bureaucratic burden for now was simply untenable.
快递公司通过其行业协会宣布了上述决定，它们表示快递业务的中止可能是暂时的，但目前官僚体系的负担实在难以承受。
A letter to clients from the association said the companies would deliver to companies as it always has done. But individuals could receive no packages, only documents.
该协会在写给客户的信中表示，快递公司会像往常一样将货物送至公司。但个人无法接收包裹，只能收到文件。
“The service we provide to our clients is speed, quality and reliability in full compliance with local legislation,” the statement said. “The new rules make it impossible.”
“我们为客户提供的快速、可靠、高质量的服务，完全符合当地法律的要求，”声明称。“新规定致使我们无法提供这样的服务。”