MOSCOW — Two women from the punk group Pussy Riot who were nearing the end of two-year prison terms for staging a protest performance against Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow’s main cathedral were released on Monday under a new amnesty law.
莫斯科——女子朋克乐团Pussy Riot两名成员两年的刑期即将结束，根据一项新的赦免法律，她们在周一获释。她们被判入狱的原因是在莫斯科的一座大教堂里进行演出，抗议弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。
Unbowed, they immediately seized on their sudden freedom to slam Mr. Putin, accusing him of using the Russian justice system to bolster his image before the Winter Olympics to be held in Sochi in February, and insisting they did not want his mercy.
她们并没有屈服，刚刚出乎意料地获得自由，就立即借机对普京大加抨击，指责他这是在明年2月索契举行冬季奥运会(Winter Olympics)之前，利用俄罗斯的司法体系提升自己的形象。她们还坚持称，不想要他的仁慈。
The case of Maria Alyokhina, who was set free from a prison in the western city of Nizhny Novgorod on Monday morning, and her co-defendant, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, who was released later in the day in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, had drawn widespread condemnation of Russia for suppressing political speech, and made the punk group’s members an international sensation as famous musicians and artists spoke out in their defense.
玛丽亚·阿列希娜(Maria Alyokhina)和娜杰日达·托罗克尼科娃(Nadezhda Tolokonnikova)的案件令人们广泛谴责俄罗斯压制政治言论，而且因为有著名音乐人和艺术家替她们辩护，也引起了国际反响。阿列希娜周一早晨在西部城市下诺夫哥罗德获释，同案被告托罗克尼科娃则在当天晚些时候，从西伯利亚城市克拉斯诺亚尔斯克获释。
The release of the two women came three days after Mr. Putin granted clemency to Russia’s most famous prisoner, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former oil tycoon, who was removed from a penal colony in northern Russia and flown to Berlin.
在这二人获释的三天前，普京刚刚赦免了俄罗斯最著名的囚犯，曾是石油大亨的米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)。他离开了俄罗斯西北部一处关押犯人的地方，飞往了柏林。
The amnesty law and the Khodorkovsky pardon are widely viewed here as an effort by Mr. Putin to eliminate opportunities for criticism of Russia during the Olympics. Already, there has been much criticism in the West of Russia over a law viewed as suppressing gay rights, and there was little doubt that Western governments and rights groups would have used the Games as an opportunity to draw attention to the plight of high-profile prisoners.
外界广泛认为，颁布新的赦免法律和释放霍多尔科夫斯基的原因是，普京想消除冬奥会期间批评俄罗斯的机会。现在西方已经开始就一项被认为压制同性恋权利的法律，对俄罗斯提出了很多批评，而且西方政府和权利团体应该也会利用冬奥会的时机，吸引外界关注那些高调的囚犯所承受的痛苦。
Mr. Putin has asserted that the amnesty law is an effort to make the criminal justice system more humane and that Mr. Khodorkovsky was similarly released on humanitarian grounds because his mother is ill. Critics, however, have said the releases simply underscore the arbitrariness of the Russian justice system, and Mr. Putin’s singular authority not just over the Kremlin but over Parliament and the courts as well.
普京声称，赦免法律是为了让刑事司法体系更人性化，霍多尔科夫斯基获释也是出于相似的人道理由，因为他的母亲生病了。然而批评人士表示，释放仅仅说明了俄罗斯司法体系的随意性，而普京独一无二的权威，不仅主宰着克里姆林宫，还主宰着议会和法院。
Ms. Tolokonnikova, who has been the most outspoken of the Pussy Riot defendants, said she regarded the amnesty to be as illegitimate as her arrest and conviction. “They put me in; they let me out,” she said in an interview on the radio station Echo of Moscow. “One thing was funny and the other no less funny.”
托罗克尼科娃在Pussy Riot的被告人中最敢于直言。她说，在她看来自己被赦免与被捕、被判刑一样不正当。“把我关进去，又把我放出来，”她在接受俄罗斯回声(Echo of Moscow)电台采访时说，“一件事挺搞笑的，另一件也同样搞笑。”
She said it was obvious the amnesty was tied to the Olympics and called it “ridiculous,” given how close it came to the end of her sentence. Although convicted in August 2012, the women had been jailed since the previous March.
她说，赦免她显然是与奥运会相关的，还说这“很荒唐”，因为距离刑期结束已经很近了。尽管到2012年8月才被定罪，但她们当年3月就已经入狱。
“We could easily stay there till the end of the term without this humoristic gesture of our authorities,” she said.
她说，“我们很快就能等到刑期结束，而不用接受官方这种滑稽的姿态。”
In a telephone interview on Monday, Ms. Alyokhina similarly said that she did not want amnesty, and that officials had forced her to leave the prison. She said she would have preferred to serve out her sentence.
在周一的一次电话采访中，阿列希娜也做出了相似的表态。她说自己不需要赦免，是官员们强迫她离开监狱的。她说，她宁愿服完刑期。
“I think this is an attempt to improve the image of the current government, a little, before the Sochi Olympics — particularly for the Western Europeans,” she said. “But I don’t consider this humane or merciful.”
“我想这是一次在索契冬奥会举行前，改善现政府形象的尝试——尤其是在西欧面前改善形象，”她说。“可是我既不觉得人性化，也不觉得仁慈。”
She added, “We didn’t ask for any pardon.”
她还说，“我们可没要求赦免。”
The two women were convicted of hooliganism motivated by religious hatred, along with a third woman, Yekaterina Samutsevich, whose sentence was later suspended on appeal. The women had insisted that they were motivated not by antireligious sentiment but by opposition to Mr. Putin and to Russia’s political system.
这两名女子和乐团的另一名成员叶卡捷琳娜·萨姆采维奇(Yekaterina Samutsevich)被判犯有基于宗教仇恨的流氓罪。萨姆采维奇的判决后因上诉而暂缓执行。她们都坚称，自己的动机不是反宗教的情绪，而是反对普京和俄罗斯的政治体制。
The amnesty law was also expected to bring about the release of the Greenpeace activists recently arrested while protesting oil exploration in the Arctic.
根据预期，按照新的赦免法律，最近在抗议北极石油开采时被捕的绿色和平(Greenpeace)活动人士也能够获释。
A pattern of high-profile defendants being the first to benefit from the new amnesty law seemed to support the assertion of a public-relations campaign on the part of the Kremlin.
新的赦免法律颁布后，最先获益的是知名的被告人。这种模式似乎印证了这是克里姆林宫的一场公关行动的揣测。
Mark G. Denisov, who works for the Public Supervisory Commission in Krasnoyarsk, which is responsible for monitoring prison conditions and prisoners’ rights, said he expected that about 1,000 convicts would ultimately be released under the amnesty program out of about 23,000 held in jails in the region. But he said that the process was slow and that so far he was not aware of anyone going free other than Ms. Tolokonnikova.
公共监督委员会(Public Supervisory Commission)负责监督监狱的条件和囚犯的权利。在克拉斯诺亚尔斯克的公共监督委员会供职的马克·G·丹尼索夫(Mark G. Denisov)说，他预计，按照新的赦免计划，该地区的2.3万名在押人员中，会有1000名最终获释。但是他说，过程很慢，目前除了托罗克尼科娃之外，他没有发现其他人获释。
In November, she was transferred to Krasnoyarsk, which brought her closer to her grandmother who lives in the city, and where Ms. Tolokonnikova spent many summers as a child. More than 2,600 miles from Moscow, Krasnoyarsk has often been a destination of exile for political opponents by Russia’s rulers, and under Stalin, the city became a major hub in the gulag system.
11月，托罗克尼科娃被转移到了克拉斯诺亚尔斯克，这样就能和住在这个城市的祖母更近一些。托罗克尼科娃童年时在这里度过了很多个夏天。克拉斯诺亚尔斯克距离莫斯科2600英里（约4180公里），这里经常成为俄罗斯统治者流放政治反对派的地点。在斯大林时代，这座城市成了古拉格(gulag)系统的一个中心枢纽。
A sign on the front of the prison that held Ms. Tolokonnikova seeks to set the current correctional system apart from this history. It says, “Today the criminal penitentiary system is not a gulag — it’s a center of socio-psychological help for convicts and a system of transitional technology.”
关押托罗克尼科娃的监狱外竖着的一个标语，试图将现有的改造体系与历史相区分。标语上写道，“今天的刑事犯罪关押体系不是古拉格，而是面向定罪者的社会心理学救助中心，和改造体系。”