BRUSSELS — Russian and Ukrainian officials met here late Monday to seek a solution to a dispute over energy that has exacerbated tensions and led to concerns about cutoffs of natural gas to the European Union.
布鲁塞尔——周一晚些时候，俄罗斯及乌克兰的官员在布鲁塞尔会面，寻求解决能源争端的方案。能源问题加剧了紧张局势，促使人们担心俄罗斯会切断对欧盟的天然气供应。
The talks, under the aegis of the European Commission, are intended to push the two sides to reach an agreement on how much Ukraine should pay Russia for gas already consumed and for future consumption.
这场由欧盟委员会(European Commission)发起的会谈旨在推动双方达成协议，确定乌克兰应该为已经消耗和未来消耗的天然气支付多少钱。
The meeting between Russia’s energy minister, Alexander Novak, and his Ukrainian counterpart, Yuriy Prodan, was the fifth of its kind since talks began in early May after Gazprom, the Russian state-controlled energy giant, raised the price of gas to Ukraine by 80 percent in March and threatened to cut off supplies if it did not pay up.
俄罗斯能源部长亚历山大·诺瓦克(Alexander Novak)和乌克兰能源部长尤里·普罗丹(Yuri Prodan)举行了会晤。这是5月初会谈开始以来，俄乌双方的第五次会面。之前，国有的能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）在今年3月将对乌出口的天然气价格提高了80%，还威胁称如果乌克兰不偿还欠款，俄方将切断供应。
The price rose after Russia annexed Crimea and imposed an export tariff that had been waived as a form of payment for the lease of the Black Sea fleet there. In response to the re-imposition of the export tariff, Ukraine ceased payments on its natural gas bills, prompting Gazprom to threaten to cut off domestic shipments.
在俄罗斯吞并克里米亚后，重新开征一项出口关税，价格因此也出现上涨。在那以前，俄罗斯一直豁免该项关税，以充当黑海舰队驻在克里米亚的租金。为了回应俄方重新征收出口关税的举措，乌克兰停止支付天然气账单，于是俄气公司威胁切断国内的输送。
Ukraine has since paid Russia at least $786 million to cover gas already delivered in February and March.
此后，乌克兰至少付给了俄罗斯7.86亿美元（约合49亿元人民币），支付2月和3月的天然气费用。
But Ukraine and the Ukrainian gas utility, Naftogaz, still need to work out a repayment program for some gas delivered late last year, and to work out a new price from April onward. The sums for the outstanding months still could rise to around $2 billion, although that would be based on the price the two sides decide on and the amount of gas that has already been delivered.
但乌克兰及乌克兰石油天然气公司（Naftogaz，简称乌气公司）仍需要制定还款计划，为去年晚些时候输送的天然气付款，还需要制定自4月以来的新价格。虽然具体金额将取决于双方确定的价格及已经输送的天然气量，但是未支付账单的总金额仍然可能高达20亿美元左右。
Alexei Miller, the Gazprom chief executive, and Andriy Kobolev, the Naftogaz Ukrainy chief executive, attended the talks on Monday evening.
俄气公司首席执行官阿列克谢·米勒(Alexei Miller)及乌气公司首席执行官安德里·科博列夫(Andriy Kobolev)参加了周一晚间的会谈。
During negotiations a week ago, the Russian side indicated that it might lower its asking price to $385 per 1,000 cubic meters from $485, putting it on a par with price levels in Europe. That offer came amid an easing of tensions between Russia and Ukraine in diplomatic and military matters and was the clearest indication yet that Moscow’s economic pressure, at least in the short term, would let up as well.
在一周前的谈判中，俄方表明，俄罗斯或许会将要价从每千立方米485美元降到385美元，使其与欧洲价格水平持平。俄罗斯提出这一报价之时，俄乌两国间的外交及军事紧张也有所缓和，这是迄今为止最为明确的信号——莫斯科的经济压力也有所缓解，至少短期内是这样。
The gas dispute is an important matter for Europe, which has experienced energy shortfalls at least twice in the past decade as a result of previous disagreements between Ukraine and Russia. The union relies on Russia for about a third of its natural gas, and a significant proportion of that energy is delivered through pipelines that run into Europe through Ukraine.
对于欧洲来说，天然气争端是一个重要问题。由于俄乌两国出现分歧，欧洲在过去10年中经历了至少两次能源短缺危机。欧盟三分之一的天然气供应来自俄罗斯，其中大部分天然气通过途经乌克兰的管道输送至欧洲。
Some members of the European Union, including the three Baltic states and Bulgaria, still rely on Russia for 100 percent of their gas needs, making those countries a particular concern for leaders in Brussels and Washington at a time when Russia is flexing its economic and military muscle in Ukraine.
一些欧盟成员国的天然气需求仍然完全依赖俄罗斯，包括三个波罗的海国家及保加利亚。在俄罗斯对乌克兰施加经济和军事影响力之时，这些国家最让欧盟和美国领导人感到担忧。
Speaking here last week, President Obama pledged to help the union combat attempts by Russia to use its energy resources as a weapon and “to help countries in Central and Eastern Europe strengthen their energy security as well,” but he did not give details.
奥巴马总统上周在这里演讲时承诺，会帮助欧盟对抗俄罗斯把能源作为武器的做法，“同时帮中欧和东欧国家巩固能源安全”，但是他没有提供细节。
The pricing dispute is far from the only energy issue that concerns officials in Brussels and Moscow.
定价争端远不是唯一让布鲁塞尔和莫斯科的官员担心的能源问题。
European Union authorities are taking an increasingly hostile stance toward plans by Gazprom to send Russian gas through a new pipeline called South Stream that would run from Russia under the Black Sea, avoiding Ukraine.
俄气公司计划通过一条叫做南溪(South Stream)的新管道来输送俄罗斯的天然气，这条管道始于俄罗斯，将穿过黑海，绕开乌克兰。欧盟官方对这个计划的敌对态度越来越强烈。
Some Europeans complain that the project would be just another way of making the bloc more dependent on Russian energy. European authorities have shown far greater enthusiasm for plans to deliver gas along a route from Azerbaijan in the Caspian region through countries including Turkey, Albania, Greece and Italy.
有些欧洲人抱怨，这项工程只是让欧盟更依赖俄罗斯能源的另一种途径。欧盟官员对另一条天然气输送线路表现出了更大的热情：这条路线将从里海地区的阿塞拜疆穿过土耳其、阿尔巴尼亚、希腊和意大利等国。
Last week, the commission told one of its own member states, Bulgaria, to cease construction on its portion of the South Stream because of concerns about the way the bidding process had been conducted.
上周，欧盟委员会要求欧盟成员国保加利亚停止其境内的南溪建设，因为有人对招标过程的操作存在疑虑。
Bulgarian authorities said over the weekend that they had suspended construction, and news reports on Monday indicated that Serbia, which is seeking to become a member of the union, also would halt work on South Stream.
保加利亚官员周末表示，他们已经暂停建设工作。周一的新闻报道指出，正在寻求加入欧盟的塞尔维亚，也停止了南溪的建设工作。
Serbia’s energy minister and deputy prime minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, said Serbia would suspend the start of construction because of Bulgaria’s decision, Interfax, the Russian news agency, reported. Being farther along the planned pipeline route, Serbia’s section would of course be useless without the Bulgarian leg.
据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，塞尔维亚能源部长兼副总理左拉娜·米哈伊洛维奇(Zorana Mihajlovic)称，基于保加利亚的决定，塞尔维亚将推迟建设工作的开工时间。由于距离输送管道规划路线的起点更远，如果没有保加利亚部分，塞尔维亚段的管道自然也起不到任何作用。
A spokeswoman for the European Commission, Sabine Berger, declined to comment on the Serbian reports. But she welcomed the decision by Bulgaria, describing it as “an important step in response to the concerns raised by the commission last week.”
欧盟委员会女发言人萨比娜·贝格尔(Sabine Berger)拒绝就关于塞尔维亚的报道置评。但是她对保加利亚的决定表示欢迎，称那是“一个重要步骤，回应了委员会上周提出的疑虑”。