NEW YORK — The contours of the alleged insurance fraud seemed unusual enough: The participants, men and women, were accused of improperly seeking Medicaid benefits for pregnancies, births and postnatal care.
纽约——这宗所谓的保险欺诈案显得十分离奇：案件所涉及的人们，被控不正当地为怀孕、生产及产后医疗寻求联邦医疗救助(Medicaid)的福利。
That the defendants were Russian was, perhaps, not altogether unusual, given the number of recent prosecutions for similar insurance schemes perpetrated in New York by immigrants from the former Soviet Union.
被告是俄罗斯人。考虑到最近一段时间纽约的前苏联地区移民因牵涉类似骗保计划而遭到起诉的案件量之大，这一点或许倒不算有多么奇怪。
But these were no ordinary Russians. They were diplomats posted to New York City, and their wives, accused of fraudulently applying for Medicaid benefits over the past nine years. Prosecutors characterized the scheme as an audacious swindle of the federal health benefits program for the needy, orchestrated by officials in the Russian Consulate in New York and its mission to the United Nations.
然而，他们并不是普通俄罗斯人。他们是派驻纽约市的外交官及其配偶，被控在过去九年间骗取联邦医疗救助福利。检方将本案描述为大肆骗取针对美国穷人的联邦医疗福利，而策划者是俄罗斯驻纽约领事馆与驻联合国代表团的官员。
“Diplomacy should be about extending hands, not picking pockets in the host country,” said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, whose office announced on Thursday that it had charged 49 past or present Russian diplomats and their spouses in the $1.5 million Medicaid fraud case.
“外交应该是握手，而不是在东道国当扒手，”驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)说。周四，该检察官办公室宣布，就联邦医疗救助骗保案对当前和过去的49名俄罗斯外交官及配偶提起诉讼，涉案金额为150万美元（约合910万元人民币）。
“The charges expose shameful and systemic corruption among Russian diplomats in New York,” Mr. Bharara said.
“这些指控揭露了纽约的俄罗斯外交官中存在着可耻的、系统性的腐败，”巴拉拉说。
A criminal complaint unsealed in Federal District Court said that in addition to the defendants, 11 of whom still live in the United States, dozens of other conspirators not named had received illegally obtained benefits.
联邦地区法院公布的刑事诉状显示，11名被告仍在美国居住，此外还有数十个未具名的同谋也得到了非法获取的福利。
Mr. Bharara’s news briefing, unlike others in the past, was not followed by an appearance of the defendants in court. Mr. Bharara said his office had been advised that the defendants all had diplomatic immunity, so none had been arrested.
与往常不同，在巴拉拉的新闻通报会后，并没有被告出庭的环节。他说，检察官办公室得到建议，由于被告享有外交豁免权，因此至今无人被捕。
He said the State Department could seek a waiver of immunity from the Russian government to allow a prosecution to go forward. If no waiver was given, Mr. Bharara said, the State Department’s policy was to “require departure of that individual from the United States.”
巴拉拉表示，美国国务院可以从俄罗斯政府那里寻求解除豁免权，以使继续起诉成为可能。他还称，如果未获解除，国务院的政策将是“要求此人离境”。
In Moscow, the Foreign Ministry declined a request for comment, but the deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, told news organizations that he was surprised by the charges. He did not address their substance, but complained that the criminal complaint had been made public without private notifications through diplomatic channels.
在莫斯科，俄罗斯外交部拒绝了置评请求。不过，外交部副部长谢尔盖·亚布科夫(Sergei Ryabkov)告诉媒体，这些指控让他相当惊讶。他没有详述指控的实质，却对未经外交渠道进行私下沟通就公开起诉发了牢骚。
“We have many claims against American diplomats in Moscow,” Mr. Ryabkov said in remarks reported by the official RIA Novosti news agency, “but we don’t air them out in public. There are dozens of situations where we can make a complaint against them.”
官方媒体俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)报道，亚布科夫说，“我们有很多针对驻莫斯科的美国外交官的说法，但我们没有公开宣扬。其中有几十个案例是足够提出抗议的。”
In Washington, a State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said at a briefing that American officials were reviewing the charges but were not yet in a position to speak about what might happen.
在华盛顿，国务院发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)在媒体吹风会上表示，美国官方正在核查这些指控，但还不能谈论可能的发展。
As for the case itself, she added: “We don’t think this should affect our bilateral relationship with Russia. Quite frankly, there are too many important issues we have to work on together.”
至于案件本身，她说：“我们认为，这不会影响与俄罗斯的双边关系。坦白讲，有太多重要议题需要我们合作。”
Of the 63 babies born to Russian diplomats and their spouses in New York City between 2004 and 2013, 58 births — 92 percent — were in families that received Medicaid benefits, the complaint says.
诉状中称，2004年到2013年间，派驻纽约的俄罗斯外交官及配偶一共产下63名婴儿，其中58名——也就是92%——出生在获取了联邦医疗救助的家庭。
The complaint says an 18-month investigation of the 49 defendants’ applications revealed “general patterns of misrepresentations, which allowed them to qualify for Medicaid.”
文中还写道，对49名被告的医保申请进行了为期18个月的调查，揭示出了“作假行为的基本模式，他们通过这种作假来获取医疗补助资格。”
While many of the diplomats and spouses were cheating the Medicaid program, the complaint says, they also were spending tens of thousands of dollars on luxury goods and vacations, including jewelry, watches, clothes and shoes, at Jimmy Choo, Tiffany & Company and Bloomingdale’s.
诉状中称，就在这些外交官及配偶骗取联邦医疗救助的同时，他们还花了上万美元在度假和奢侈品上，包括在周仰杰(Jimmy Choo)、蒂芙尼(Tiffany & Company)和布鲁明戴尔百货(Bloomingdale’s)购买的珠宝、手表、服装和鞋。
The defendants currently work or formerly worked in New York at places like the Russian Mission to the United Nations and the Russian Consulate. Some had diplomatic titles like first secretary, second secretary, attaché and counselor.
被告目前或过去在纽约的工作机构包括俄罗斯驻联合国代表团以及俄罗斯领事馆。有些人有一等秘书、二等秘书、武官或参赞等外交头衔。
Mr. Bharara said that the investigation was continuing, and that any other country with diplomats engaging in such fraud should be on notice that “it will be exposed and the conduct will be charged criminally.”
巴拉拉称，调查还在进行当中，而参与此类欺诈的其他任何国家的外交官应当注意，“事情会曝光，这种行为也将受到刑事指控。”