UNITED NATIONS — Russia blocked a United Nations Security Council resolution on Wednesday that would create a tribunal to prosecute those responsible for the downing of a Malaysia Airlines jetliner last year in eastern Ukraine.
联合国——周三，俄罗斯成功阻止了联合国安理会通过一项决议，该决议原计划设立一个特别法庭，以对去年在东乌克兰发生的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)客机坠落事故的责任人提起诉讼。
The measure was aimed at enforcing accountability for the downing of Flight 17, which killed all 298 people aboard. Many of the passengers were Dutch, and the Netherlands has been investigating the disaster.
这一措施旨在为马航17航班坠落事故强制问责。在这起事故中，机上298人全部遇难。其中有很多乘客是荷兰人，该国一直在对这次灾难进行调查。
Russian officials had signaled their strong opposition to the resolution, which was introduced by Malaysia and drafted by a collection of countries, including the Netherlands, Ukraine and Australia.
这一决议由马来西亚提出，由包括荷兰、乌克兰和澳大利亚在内的几个国家起草。俄罗斯官员之前已经对这一决议表示过强烈反对。
The vote in the 15-member Council was 11 to 1. Three countries — China, Angola and Venezuela — abstained.
安理会15个成员国的投票结果是11比1。中国、安哥拉和委内瑞拉三个国家投了弃权票。
“We are deeply disappointed,” said the Malaysia transport minister, Liow Tong Lai, who attended the Council session and spoke in support of the resolution before the vote.
“我们感到非常失望，”马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tong Lai)说。他参加了安理会的这次会议，并在投票前发言支持该决议。
Russia, one of the five permanent members of the Council, along with Britain, China, France and the United States, has veto power over any resolution.
俄罗斯是联合国安理会五个常任理事国之一，另外四个是英国、中国、法国和美国，他们对安理会的任何决议都有一票否决权。
Explaining the veto, Russia’s ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaly I. Churkin, said his country wanted a “rapid determination of guilt” for whoever was found responsible. But he also questioned the impartiality of the tribunal envisioned in the resolution. “Can it resist propaganda?” he said.
俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)在解释俄罗斯为何使用否决权时表示，该国希望，不管是谁有责任，“要尽快辨清罪责”。但他也对这一决议提出的特殊法庭的公正性表示质疑。“它能不受宣传舆论影响吗？”他说。
Ukraine’s government accused Kremlin-backed separatists of using a Russian-made missile to shoot down the plane, which was en route to Kuala Lumpur from Amsterdam on July 17, 2014. The jetliner plunged in pieces to a bucolic part of eastern Ukraine near the Russian border.
乌克兰政府控告克里姆林宫支持的分裂分子使用一枚俄罗斯制造的导弹在2014年7月17日击落了那架客机，当时飞机正在从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的途中。飞机最后坠入东乌克兰靠近俄罗斯边境的一片田野之中，化成无数碎片。
Russia, which has suggested that Ukrainian forces may have been responsible, said the resolution had been politicized and that an investigation into the cause of the crash had not been completed.
俄罗斯暗示乌克兰军方对这起事故负有责任，它还表示这个决议被政治化了，而且对于事故原因的调查还没有结束。
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop of Australia, who also attended the Council vote, called the veto “a mockery of Russia’s commitment to accountability.”
澳大利亚外交部长朱莉·毕晓普(Julie Bishop)也参加了安理会的投票，她称否决票是“是对俄罗斯承诺问责的一种讽刺”。