DONETSK, Ukraine — The foreign ministers of Russia, Poland and Germany on Tuesday signaled progress toward a cease-fire in Ukraine, even as up to 40 separatists were reported to have been killed in a fierce battle for control of an airport in the east of the country.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——俄罗斯、波兰、德国外长周二表示，促使乌克兰达成停火的谈判已取得进展。尽管有消息称，在争夺乌克兰东部一座机场的激战中，已有多达40名分裂分子死亡。
Talks aimed at a diplomatic resolution to the unrest have achieved some progress in recent days, the ministers said, but no firm agreement. Past efforts to broker a truce, including one by European and American officials, failed because separatists insisted that Russia did not speak for them at the talks.
三国外长表示，近些天来，旨在以外交手段结束动荡的对话取得了一些进展，不过各方还没有达成牢固的共识。过去促成挺火的斡旋努力都以失败告终，包括欧洲官员和美国官员此前的一次尝试。失败的原因在于，分裂分子坚持称，俄罗斯在谈判中没能代表他们。
Exactly who does speak for them is unclear. On Tuesday, the militant wing of a rebel group in Slovyansk, an epicenter of the violence, said it had arrested the “people’s mayor” of the city, Vyacheslav Ponomarev, who had been the public face of the pro-Russian uprising there, a Russian television channel, LifeNews, reported.
但并不清楚究竟谁能代表他们。俄罗斯电视频道“生活新闻”(LifeNews)报道，周二，暴力活动的中心斯洛夫扬斯克的一个叛乱组织所属的战斗人员表示，他们已经逮捕了该市的“人民市长”维亚切斯拉夫·波诺马廖夫(Vyacheslav Ponomarev)。波诺马廖夫一直是当地亲俄叛乱的代表人物。
Authority had already been shifting to a Russian national, a militant who goes by the nickname Strelok, or “The Shooter.” It was unclear whether the shift was related to the cease-fire talks.
该市的管理权已被移交给一名俄罗斯公民，这名武装分子绰号“枪手”(Strelok)。目前还不清楚，此次权力移交是否和停火谈判有关。
Speaking after the negotiations, held in St. Petersburg, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia said he was confident that after the latest round of talks, any decision by the Ukrainian government to halt its military activities in the east would be met with a similar cease-fire by the rebels. Mr. Lavrov also welcomed a proposal by Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, to open a humanitarian corridor for civilians to leave conflict areas.
在圣彼得堡举行的谈判结束后，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)发表讲话称，他有信心认为，最近的一轮谈判结束后，乌克兰政府在东部停止军事行动的任何决定，都会得到武装分子的响应，他们会作出类似的停火决定。拉夫罗夫还对乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)的一项提议表示欢迎。后者提出，要为平民撤离冲突地区开辟一条人道主义走廊。
“The key to a de-escalation of the situation, of course, in our belief, is the cessation of this military operation against the protesters,” Mr. Lavrov said. “Namely then, the people that you call separatists, I am sure will answer reciprocally.”
拉夫罗夫说，“当然，我们相信，缓和局势的关键是停止对抗议者的军事行动。也就是说，我可以肯定地说，被你们称作分裂分子的人，届时会做出对等的回应。”
The Russian government has claimed to have no formal role in the insurrection, and no control over the fighters. Yet a number of senior rebel leaders have openly identified themselves as Russian citizens, and at least 31 rebels recently killed in fighting with the Ukrainian forces were found to be Russian nationals.
俄罗斯政府宣称，没有正式介入过此次叛乱，也无法控制战斗人员。不过，叛乱分子中的一些领导人物已经公开宣称，他们是俄罗斯公民。最近与乌克兰军队交战时死亡的叛军中，至少有31名被证实是俄罗斯公民。
Mr. Lavrov met with the Polish foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, and the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier.
会谈是在拉夫罗夫、波兰外长拉多斯瓦夫·西科尔斯基(Radoslaw Sikorski)，以及德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)之间开展的。
Mr. Sikorski said he reassured Russia over its concern that Ukraine, once consolidated under a pro-Western government, intended to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mr. Sikorski said the NATO question was not on the agenda on Tuesday, though he offered no other guarantees.
俄罗斯担心，一旦乌克兰在亲西方的政府领导下巩固起来，就会打算加入北约(NATO)。西科尔斯基表示，他向俄罗斯保证，不需要有这样的顾虑。西科尔斯基说，北约问题不在周二的议程中，不过他没有做出其他保证。
Mr. Steinmeier said that the talks had achieved “momentum,” and that “after many months of conflict in Ukraine, we can see a faint light at the end of the tunnel,” the German news media reported, citing the Foreign Ministry.
德国新闻媒体援引外交部的声明称，施泰因迈尔表示，会谈获得了“动力”，“在乌克兰经历数月冲突之后，我们看到了隧道尽头微弱的光。”
Despite the peace overtures, fighting continued in eastern Ukraine. Overnight on Tuesday, a Ukrainian military spokesman said its forces had repelled a separatist attack on an airport outside Kramatorsk, to the south of Slovyansk, and killed an estimated 40 separatist fighters. The report could not be confirmed. Phone calls to a rebel spokeswoman in the area went unanswered.
尽管各方做出了和平的姿态，但是乌克兰东部的战斗仍在持续。乌克兰军方的一名发言人表示，乌克兰军队周二晚间通宵作战，击退了向克拉马托尔斯克郊外的一座机场发起袭击的分裂分子，约有40名分裂武装在战斗中身亡。但这一说法无法得到证实。记者给该地区分裂派的女发言人打电话，但电话无人 应答。
In separate incidents, the Ukrainian military said that two soldiers had been wounded by gunfire and rocket-propelled grenades in fighting near Slovyansk, and that rebels in eight trucks mounted with machine guns had attacked an airport near Luhansk, but failed to seize it.
乌克兰军方透露，在其他交火事件中，有两名士兵在斯洛夫扬斯克附近作战时，遭到炮火和火箭筒的攻击并受伤，叛乱分子乘坐八辆配备机枪的卡车，攻击了卢甘斯克附近的一座机场，但没能控制该机场。
It was unclear how long the Ukrainian military and other agencies would need to set up the escape corridor for civilians that Mr. Poroshenko announced on Tuesday. There were also questions about whether the separatists, whose rationale for fighting is that they are protecting residents from a “fascist” government in Kiev, would cooperate in a humanitarian effort by the government.
目前尚不清楚，波罗申科在周二宣称要建立的那种平民疏散走廊，乌克兰军队及其他部门需要多长时间才能建成。另一个问题是，分裂分子是否会配合政府的人道主义行动。分裂分子称，他们作战是为了保护居民不受基辅的“法西斯”政府控制，
Mr. Poroshenko’s instructions to create a corridor for people displaced from the east came after he met on Tuesday with the leaders of the country’s security and military services.
周二，波罗申科在与该国安全部门及军方的领导人会面后，做出了为东部流离失所的民众建立走廊的指示。