WASHINGTON — The czarist trappings of President Vladimir V. Putin’s surprise move to free Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, announced at a marathon news conference on Dec. 19, were hard to miss. Mr. Putin’s offhand, backstage comment that 10 years of imprisonment had been punishment enough for Mr. Khodorkovsky, his onetime nemesis (and once Russia’s richest man), conveyed just the right mix of omnipotence, benevolence and piety.
华盛顿——12月19日，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在一场马拉松式的新闻发布会上宣布将释放米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)。这一惊人之举所展现的沙皇特征不容忽视。普京曾在私下里漫不经心地评论，对曾是其劲敌（也曾是俄罗斯首富）的霍多尔科夫斯基来说，10年的监禁惩罚够重了。这番评论既体现了普京权力之大，也流露了善意和虔诚。
Inside the hall, the atmosphere had been far less dignified than what Mr. Putin’s role model, Czar Alexander II, might have tolerated. Fawning reporters had waved stuffed animals to get Mr. Putin’s attention, and one reporter read a poem beseeching him to renationalize the energy industry so that the Russian people would repay the favor by asking him “to rule for the rest of your life.”
在发布会大厅里，按照普京的行为榜样沙皇亚历山大二世(Czar Alexander II)的标准，氛围远不够庄严。为了引起普京的注意，阿谀奉承的记者挥动着动物填充玩具，其中一位记者还读了一首诗，请求普京重新将能源行业国有化，这样作为回报，俄罗斯人民便会让他“余生一直统治俄罗斯”。
At first glance, this turn of events seems to illustrate just how much Russia has changed since October 2003, when Mr. Khodorkovsky’s jet was stormed on the tarmac of a Siberian airport by masked agents of Russia’s Federal Security Service. The familiar narrative holds that Mr. Putin enjoys nearly limitless power, having brought the oligarchs to heel, recentralized political authority, dismantled fledgling democratic institutions and put most of the economy back under state control. By confounding expectations that Mr. Khodorkovsky would rot in prison forever, Mr. Putin left little doubt about his near-total domination of the Russian political scene.
乍一看，这种出人意料的事态发展似乎说明了俄罗斯自2003年10月以来的变化之大。2003年10月，在西伯利亚一座机场用柏油碎石铺成的跑道上，霍多尔科夫斯基的飞机遭到俄罗斯联邦安全局(Federal Security Service)蒙面特工的突袭。耳熟能详的说法是，普京拥有几近无限的权力，已经让寡头向其屈服、重新集中了政治权威、废除了初具雏形的民主制度、让大部分经济领域重新处在国家的控制之下。人们都以为普京会让霍多尔科夫斯基老死狱中。通过证明这种说法的错误，普京让各界不再质疑他对俄罗斯政治舞台近乎彻底的独统。
Yet Russia’s oligarchy (that is, the control of the state and economy by a small group of well-placed, extremely wealthy insiders) is alive and well. The supposedly all-powerful Mr. Putin actually devotes much of his time to refereeing bitter disputes between oligarchs like Igor I. Sechin, the head of the state oil company Rosneft, and Gennady N. Timchenko, a co-owner of Russia’s largest oil trading company and an independent natural gas producer. These latter-day oligarchs, many of whom have built vast business empires on the back of longstanding connections to Mr. Putin, are part of a political tradition that dates back to the rapid expansion of the Grand Duchy of Muscovy in the 1400s.
然而，俄罗斯的寡头政治（即一小群极度富裕的、有地位的人控制着国家和经济）依然充满活力。实际上，据称拥有无边权力的普京把大量时间用在了调停寡头之间的激烈冲突上，比如掌舵俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)的伊格尔·I·谢钦(Igor I. Sechin)和俄罗斯最大的石油贸易公司的共同所有人、独立的天然气生产商格纳迪·N·季姆琴科(Gennady N. Timchenko)之间的争端。当今这些寡头中，许多人都是凭借与普京的长期关系，建立了庞大的商业帝国。他们都受益于一项政治传统，可以追溯到15世纪莫斯科公国(Grand Duchy of Muscovy)的迅速扩张。
The most authoritative description of Russia’s peculiar style of rule can be found in an unusual place: a little-known academic essay by the Harvard medieval historian Edward L. Keenan, originally prepared for the State Department in the mid-1970s. Professor Keenan’s vivid account of the conspiracies, secrecy and power politics of the Muscovite czarist court will be readily recognizable to viewers of “Game of Thrones.” Most important, Professor Keenan punctures the myth of an all-powerful czar. He explains how a system dominated by elite groups of boyars (the top rung of the aristocracy and the forebears of today’s oligarchs) and bureaucrats, who imposed constraints on the country’s ruler, became so entrenched in the political culture.
关于俄罗斯独特的统治方式，可以在一个非同寻常的地方找到最权威的描述，那就是哈佛大学研究中世纪的历史学家爱德华·L·基南(Edward L. Keenan)的一篇鲜为人知的学术论文。最初，这篇论文是上世纪70年代中期为国务院(State Department)准备的。看过《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)的人很容易就会认出基南教授对阴谋、秘密和莫斯科沙皇法庭的权力政治的生动描述。最重要的是，基南教授揭开了一位享有无限权力的沙皇的神秘面纱。他解释了一个由波维尔（贵族阶层的顶层成员以及当今寡头的前辈们）和官僚精英群体主导的制度如何在政治文化中变得如此根深蒂固。这些群体制约国家的统治者。
After a devastating civil war in the 1400s, these groups decided that it was in their interest to carve out a role for a leader capable of mediating disputes and distributing power and property among them. They deliberately shrouded the system in secrecy and exaggerated the role of the czar to maintain their freedom to maneuver and keep outsiders at bay.
经历了15世纪的一场灾难性内战后，这些团体认为，创造出一个领袖角色来调停它们之间的争端，为它们分配权力和财富，是符合它们的利益的。于是，它们故意让这个制度蒙上了隐秘的色彩，夸大了沙皇的作用，以维护自己从中操纵和控制局外人的自由。
This approach was combined with an inefficient yet extremely centralized system that has clear parallels to contemporary Russia, specifically the need to maintain control over an unpredictable population and a vast, underpopulated territory. (To cite one of Professor Keenan’s most vivid examples, “In the later 16th century, when the round trip to the capital could occupy the better part of a year, even simple real estate transactions conducted in tiny villages on the Arctic Circle were registered and approved in Moscow.”)
这种方式和一种效率低下但却极度集中的制度结合在了一起。当代俄罗斯的制度明显和它有类似的地方，特别是必须对不稳定的人口和广袤却人烟稀少的领土的保持控制这一点。（此处引用基南教授举出的其中一个生动例子：“16世纪后期，在往返首都一次要用大半年时间时，即便是在北极圈的一个小村庄里进行的简单的房地产交易都需要在莫斯科登记报批。”）
Unfortunately, our understanding of Mr. Putin’s regime and its most important players remains heavily distorted by our disappointment that Russia has failed to develop along Western lines. By fixating on Mr. Putin’s authoritarian streak, hostility to outside influences and resistance to Western-style reforms, we generally overlook that his value to the system, like that of the czars who preceded him, is based on maintaining the balance among competing vested interests. Just as it was five centuries ago, the main battles inside the Kremlin among these groups are about power, money and access to special privileges, not ideology.
遗憾的是，俄罗斯未能沿着西方的路线发展让我们很失望，这种失望始终在严重干扰着我们对普京的政权及其主要参与者的认识。我们一味盯着普京的威权主义倾向、对外部影响的敌意和对西方式改革的抗拒，因而普遍没能看到，就像在他之前的那些沙皇一样，他对这个制度的价值在于维持相互竞争的既得利益者之间的平衡。和五个世纪以前一样，这些团体在克里姆林宫内的主要斗争涉及的是权力、金钱和特权，而不是意识形态。
Eventually, the day will come when Mr. Putin is no longer in power. Yet it seems highly unlikely that his informal style of rule will be replaced by a rule of law system based on strong institutions and checks and balances. Rather, the West must brace itself for the possibility that the oligarchic system itself, with its deep roots in Russian political culture, will outlive its current master.
普京迟早有一天会失去权力。然而，以强大的制度和权力的制约与平衡为基础的法治要取代他这种非正式的统治方式，可能性似乎非常小。西方倒是要做好准备，深植于俄罗斯政治文化中的寡头制度本身，可能会比它现在的主人长寿。