MOSCOW — The Facebook post Tuesday morning by Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia was bleak and full of dread.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)周二早上发表在Facebook上的帖子语气冷酷，令人害怕。
“Blood has been spilled in Ukraine again,” wrote Mr. Medvedev, once favored in the West for playing good cop to the hard-boiled president, Vladimir V. Putin. “The threat of civil war looms.”
“鲜血再一次溅洒在乌克兰，”梅德韦杰夫说，“内战的威胁在隐隐逼近。”梅德韦杰夫曾一度得到西方的垂青，因为相对于无情的总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，梅德韦杰夫是唱红脸的。
He pleaded with Ukrainians to decide their own future “without usurpers, nationalists and bandits, without tanks or armored vehicles — and without secret visits by the C.I.A. director.”
他呼吁乌克兰人民在“不受篡位者、民族主义者和强盗，坦克和装甲车——不受中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）局长秘密访问的影响下”决定自己的未来。
And so began another day of bluster and hyperbole, of misinformation, exaggerations, conspiracy theories, overheated rhetoric and, occasionally, outright lies about the political crisis in Ukraine that have emanated from the highest echelons of the Kremlin and reverberated on state-controlled Russian television, hour after hour, day after day, week after week.
于是，充满威胁和夸张言论的一天又开始了，各种错误信息、夸大之词、阴谋论、热烈的大空话层出不穷，偶尔还有涉及乌克兰政治危机的不折不扣的谎话。这些谎言出自克里姆林宫的最高层，每时每刻，每一天每一周，都不断出现在俄罗斯官方电视频道。
It is an extraordinary propaganda campaign that political analysts say reflects a new brazenness on the part of Russian officials. And in recent days, it has largely succeeded — at least for Russia’s domestic audience — in painting a picture of chaos and danger in eastern Ukraine, although it was pro-Russian forces themselves who created it by seizing public buildings and setting up roadblocks.
这是一场非同寻常的宣传运动，政治分析人士称这场运动反映出了俄罗斯官员新近表现出来的厚颜无耻。最近几天，在勾画乌克兰东部的混乱和危险局面这一点上，这场运动在很大程度上成功了——至少对俄罗斯国内观众而言是这样的——尽管正是亲俄罗斯力量自己通过占领公共建筑和设置路障，制造了那些混乱和危险。
In essence, Moscow’s state-controlled news media outlets are loudly and incessantly calling on Ukraine and the international community to calm a situation that Ukraine, the United States and the European Union say the Kremlin is doing its best to destabilize.
在本质上，俄罗斯官方新闻媒体机构不停地大声呼吁乌克兰和国际社会保持冷静，但乌克兰、美国和欧盟认为在不遗余力地破坏稳定的正是俄罗斯自己。
Even the United Nations weighed in. In a report released Tuesday, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights said that threats to ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine, cited repeatedly by Russian officials and in the Russian news media as a potential rationale for Russian military action, were exaggerated and that some participants in the protests in the region came from Russia.
连联合国都发表了意见。在周二公布的一份报告中，联合国人权事务高级专员办事处(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights)称，尽管俄罗斯官员和俄罗斯新闻媒体多次以乌克兰东部的俄罗斯人受到威胁，作为俄罗斯采取军事行动的潜在理由，但这种威胁被夸大了，参加该地区的抗议的部分人员实际上来自俄罗斯。
“Although there were some attacks against the ethnic Russian community, these were neither systematic nor widespread,” said the report, which was based on two United Nations missions to Ukraine between March 15 and April 2.
“尽管俄罗斯人社区受到了一些攻击，但均不是系统性的、大范围的攻击，”该报告称。联合国在3月15日至4月2日期间两次派出代表团，该报告便是根据相关反馈撰写的。
There is no question that the new Ukrainian government and its Western allies, including the United States, have engaged in their own misinformation efforts at times, with officials in Kiev making bold pronouncements in recent days of enforcement efforts that never materialized. On Tuesday, some American officials were spreading unverified photographs allegedly showing Russian rocket launchers carried by pro-Russian demonstrators in eastern Ukraine.
毫无疑问，新成立的乌克兰政府，以及它包括美国在内的西方盟友自己有时也会宣扬不实信息。比如，最近几天，基辅一些官员大胆地称要实施一些从未实现过的措施。周二，一些美国官员纷纷在散布一些未经证实的照片。据称，这些照片显示，乌克兰东部亲俄罗斯示威者携带着俄制火箭筒。
“It’s all lies,” said Lilia Shevtsova, an expert on Russian politics at the Carnegie Moscow Center. “The Russia leadership doesn’t care about how it’s being perceived in the outside world, in the world of communication, in the world where we have plurality of information and where information can be confirmed and checked. This is a radical change in attitude toward the West.”
“一派胡言，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)研究俄罗斯政治的专家莉利亚·舍夫佐娃(Lilia Shevtsova)说，“在一个通讯的世界，在一个我们掌握着大量信息而且信息能得到查证核实的世界里，俄罗斯领导人不在乎外界怎么看自己。这是对待西方的态度的重大转变。”
Ms. Shevtsova added: “We can’t trust anything. Even with the Soviet propaganda, when they were talking with the Soviet people, there were some rules. Now, there are no rules at all. You can invent anything.”
舍夫佐娃还说：“我们什么都不能信。即便是在苏联时代的宣传中，他们在和苏联人说话时，也是有一些规则的。现在，完全没有规则可言。什么都能编。”
To watch the television news in Russia is to be pulled into a swirling, 24-hour vortex of alarmist proclamations of Western aggression, sinister claims of rising fascism and breathless accounts of imminent hostilities by the “illegal” Ukrainian government in Kiev, which has proved itself in recent days to be largely powerless.
在俄罗斯看电视新闻，就像是被拽进了一个24小时不停歇的漩涡，播报人员耸人听闻地发表关于西方侵略的声明，用心险恶地称法西斯主义正在崛起，不歇气地宣称基辅的乌克兰“非法”政府的敌意正在逼近，但最近几天，乌克兰政府证明自己基本上无能为力。
The Rossyia 24 news channel, for instance, has been broadcasting virtually nonstop with a small graphic at the bottom corner of the screen that says, “Ukrainian Crisis,” above the image of masked fighter, set against the backdrop of the red-and-black flag of the nationalist, World War II-era Ukrainian Insurgent Army, which inflicted tens of thousands of casualties on Soviet forces.
比如，俄罗斯24小时(Rossyia 24)新闻频道在播放节目时，屏幕下方的角落上几乎一直有一幅小图，上面写着“乌克兰危机”的字样，字样下是带着面具的武装分子的图片，背景是二战时期民族主义性质的乌克兰起义军(Ukrainian Insurgent Army)的红黑双色旗。乌克兰起义军曾给苏联军队造成了数万伤亡。
Russia has flatly denied any role in the unrest in eastern Ukraine, and the Russian Foreign Ministry, which normally champions the authority of the United Nations, dismissed the new humans rights report as biased. In a statement, Aleksandr Lukashevich, a foreign ministry spokesman, called it “one-sided, politicized and unobjective.”
俄罗斯直截了当地否认自己在乌克兰东部的骚乱中扮演了任何角色，通常都会拥护联合国权威的俄罗斯外交部(Russian Foreign Ministry)称新出炉的人权报告存在偏见。俄罗斯外交部新闻发言人亚历山大·卢卡舍维奇(Aleksandr Lukashevich)在一份声明中称该报告是“片面、政治化和不客观的”。
Mr. Lukashevich said the report ignored “the unchecked rise of aggressive nationalism and neo-Nazism” in Ukraine, adding, “the document abounds in flagrant selectiveness.”
卢卡舍维奇称该报告忽略了乌克兰“民族主义和新纳粹主义在肆无忌惮地崛起”，并说“该文件里充满了明目张胆的倾向性”。
Mark Galeotti, a professor of global affairs at New York University who is teaching in Moscow this semester, said that some of the lies were blatant. “You can have the sight of the Russian state honoring the ‘heroes of Crimea’ without finding any need to reconcile that with the official line that there were no Russian soldiers there,” Mr. Galeotti said in an interview.
纽约大学(New York University)研究全球事务的教授、这学期正在莫斯科执教的马克·加莱奥蒂(Mark Galeotti)说，部分谎言很明显。“你能看到，俄罗斯政府一边在表彰‘克里米亚的英雄’，一边完全不用考虑这是否会跟他们的官方辞令不一致，他们说了那里没有俄罗斯士兵的，”加莱奥蒂在接受采访时说。
Still, he said the propaganda was strikingly effective in Crimea, throwing the West off-balance and buying Russian forces just enough time to solidify their control over the peninsula.
然而，他说相关宣传在克里米亚极其有效，让西方失去了平衡，为俄罗斯部队赢得了足够多的时间，以巩固对该半岛的控制。
“It was on one level transparent, embarrassingly transparent,” Mr. Galeotti said. “But I know from my conversations with various people in government, it did create that sort of paralysis, or uncertainty.”
“从某个层面来说，它是很直白的，令人难堪的直白，”加莱奥蒂说，“但从与政府里不同人的交谈中，我了解到，这种宣传的确造成了那种麻痹或不确定性。”