Ahead of a key meeting of global leaders in Beijing, Russian officials say that negotiations are heating up with China for a possible second major energy deal this year. If signed, the pact would authorize a new pipeline that could double the amount of natural gas Russia is scheduled to export to China and elevate Russia into a major supplier there.
在一场全球领导人的重要会议即将在北京举行之际，俄罗斯官员称与中国的谈判渐入佳境，有望签下今年的第二份大宗能源协议。一旦得以签署，该协议将授权建设一条新管线，从而令计划输往中国的俄罗斯天然气规模翻倍，也让俄罗斯成为中国的一个主要能源供应者。
It would also expand the market for exports from Russia, which has been hit hard by American and European Union sanctions over its interventions in Ukraine. About 80 percent of Russia’s piped natural gas now goes to Europe.
该协议还为俄罗斯的出口开拓了市场，在美国和欧盟因其对乌克兰的干预行为实施制裁后，俄罗斯的出口遭到重创。目前该国管道天然气有约80%输往欧洲。
Last week, Alexei Miller, chief executive of the Russian state-owned gas company Gazprom, told President Vladimir V. Putin that the company “plans to sign a contract to supply China with 30 billion cubic meters of natural gas” over 30 years, according to a transcript released by Mr. Putin’s office. During the meeting, Mr. Miller also raised the possibility of Russia supplying “up to 100 billion cubic meters of gas to China.”
据弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的总统办公室发布的一份会议记录，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）首席执行官阿列克谢·米勒(Alexei Miller)上周告知普京，公司“计划签署一份合约”，在未来三十年里“向中国提供300亿立方米的天然气”。会议期间，米勒还提出俄罗斯也许“可向中国供应高达1000亿立方米的天然气”。
A report from Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, on Mr. Miller’s meeting with Mr. Putin on Sept. 17 said that an agreement with the state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation would be signed in November. President Xi Jinping of China is set to welcome world leaders, including Mr. Putin and President Obama, to Beijing for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting on Nov. 10-11.
在关于9月17日米勒与普京的这次会面的报道中，中国官方新闻机构新华社称，与国有的中国石油天然气集团公司（简称CNPC）的合同将在十一月签署。按照计划，中国国家主席习近平将在11月10日到11日的亚太经济合作组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)北京会议上迎接世界各国领导人，其中包括普京和奥巴马总统。
PetroChina, the listed arm of C.N.P.C., which manages most of the parent company’s pipeline business, said on Wednesday that it could not comment because the matter concerns C.N.P.C. C.N.P.C. could not be reached for comment on Thursday, but a company news release said that Mr. Miller and Wang Dongjin, C.N.P.C.’s vice president and PetroChina’s president, had discussed “the initiation of the western route project” on Sept. 1.
负责母公司大部分管道业务的CNPC上市分公司中石油(PetroChina)在周三表示，由于涉及到CNPC的事务，公司无法置评。本报在周四没能联系到CNPC进行置评，但公司的一份新闻通稿称，米勒和CNPC副总裁、中石油总裁汪东进已在9月1日就“启动西线天然气项目”进行了会谈。
That was the day construction started on the China-Russia East Route Gas Project, the product of an agreement China and Russia signed in May for a pipeline connecting natural gas fields in eastern Siberia to China’s energy-hungry, industrialized east. Under that agreement, the pipeline will supply China with Russian gas for 30 years starting in 2018, with the flow expected to reach 38 billion cubic meters of gas a year by the sixth year of operation.
中俄东线天然气管道项目就是在那一天开始施工的，该项目是中俄在五月签署的一份协议的产物，旨在用一根管道将西伯利亚东部的天然气田和能源需求旺盛的中国东部工业化地区联系起来。根据协议，该管道从2018年开始向中国供应30年的天然气，到项目进入第六年时，管道年输送量有望达到380亿立方米。
Last year, China consumed about 161.6 billion cubic meters of natural gas, of which 51.9 billion cubic meters was imported. In April, Beijing announced that it wants to increase natural gas consumption to 420 billion cubic meters annually by 2020. The government hopes by then to raise natural gas use to 10 percent of its energy mix, up from 6 percent, and reduce the country’s overwhelming dependence on highly polluting coal.
去年，中国消耗的天然气约为1616亿立方米，其中519亿立方米是通过进口。四月，北京宣布，计划增加天然气的使用量，到2020年达到每年4200亿立方米。政府希望届时天然气在能源结构中的占比能从现在的6%上升到10%，以缓解这个国家对高污染的煤炭的过度依赖。
Despite China’s growing demand for energy, the western route, or Altai, pipeline would have fewer benefits for China. Based on the existing draft from Gazprom, the pipeline would funnel gas from western Siberia to China’s sparsely populated west. And it would draw on the same gas reserves that Russia exports to Europe, allowing Gazprom to serve as a swing supplier between Europe and Asia. It is unclear how comfortable Chinese leaders would be at that prospect.
尽管能源需求在增长，中国在又称“阿尔泰”(Altai)的西线管道获得的好处要少一些。根据俄气提供的现有合同草案，管道将把西伯利亚西部的天然气输送到中国人口稀少的西部地区。此外该管线使用的天然气储备和出口欧洲的管线是相同的，这样一来俄气就成了欧洲和亚洲之间的一个摇摆供应商。面对这个前景，不知中国领导人是否能泰然处之。
But it is clear why Russia has been vocal about such an arrangement. It would have important advantages for Russia, which has been looking for new markets outside Europe. A second major deal with China, the only member of the United Nations Security Council to not censure Russia over its annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, would reduce its vulnerability to punitive actions from the West.
但可以知道的是，俄罗斯对这样的安排是直言不讳的。对一直在寻找欧洲以外的新市场的俄罗斯来说，该项目会带来重要优势。和中国——唯一一个没有因为吞并乌克兰的克里米亚而谴责俄罗斯的联合国安全理事会(United Nations Security Council)成员国——签订第二个重大协议，可以减少西方惩罚措施给它造成的危害。
“This is 21 century’s invisible but genuine economic war between Russia and the U.S./E.U.,” said Keun-Wook Paik, an expert on Chinese-Russian energy relations at Chatham House, the London-based think tank. “If the Altai export is implemented, it will have a much more powerful impact against international oil companies than that of U.S./E.U.’s sanctions against Russia.”
“这是21世纪俄罗斯和美国/欧盟之间进行的一场无形却真切的经济战争，”伦敦智库皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)中俄能源关系专家白均旭(Keun-Wook Paik)说。“如果阿尔泰出口项目能实现，对国际石油公司造成的影响将远超美国/欧盟制裁对俄罗斯的影响。”
“President Putin is fully aware of the fact that China has secured enough gas from Central Asian republics, but looks determined to show Russia has a very powerful vehicle that can respond to Washington’s and Brussels’ sanctions policy against Russia in the wake of the Ukraine crisis,” Mr. Paik said.
“普京总统很清楚，中国已从中亚各共和国那里得到了足够的天然气，但是看起来他决意要展现俄罗斯拥有强大的手段，华盛顿和布鲁塞尔在乌克兰危机问题上对俄罗斯实施的制裁政策，俄罗斯是可以做出回应的，”白均旭说。
A commentary published last week by the Russian news agency RIA Novosti warned: “In several years, Europe will have to outbid China and avoid angering the Kremlin in order to keep the cheap Russian gas flowing.” It said the new contract “is expected to be signed in November.”
新闻机构俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)上周刊出一篇评论文章警告称：“再过几年，欧洲要想保持廉价俄罗斯天然气的输送，就要和中国竞价，并且要避免惹怒克里姆林宫。”文章称新协议“有望在十一月签署”。
Russia’s eagerness for a deal gives China greater leverage, Mr. Paik said.
白均旭说，俄罗斯想达成协议的急切心理，让中国在谈判中占得先机。
This means that Russia must be prepared to offer China major incentives, Mr. Paik added. One possibility might be to give China a stake in the western Siberia gas fields that are likely to supply the route’s gas. “The equity gas will be a very attractive bait for China,” he said.
白均旭接着说，这意味着俄罗斯要准备好给中国一个很大的优惠。其中一个可能是让中国入股西伯利亚西部的天然气田，该管线输送的天然气可能就是出自那个地区。“天然气股份对中国是极具吸引力的，”他说。
Missing from official announcements has been any discussion of the environmental and cultural consequences of the new pipeline’s construction. The current plan for an Altai pipeline plan would stretch over 1,600 miles and pass through the Golden Mountains of Altai, a Unesco World Heritage Site. Last year, the United Nations body threatened to place it on the List of World Heritage in Danger if the pipeline construction went ahead, The Moscow Times reported.
在这些官方声明中，看不到关于新管线建设的环境和文化后果的任何讨论。目前计划中的阿尔泰管道项目长度逾1600英里（约合2575公里），途经联合国教科文组织世界遗产阿尔泰金山。《莫斯科时报》(Moscow Times)报道称，去年教科文组织曾警告说，如果管道建设工程得以推进，它将把金山列入“濒危世界遗产名录”。