SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine — Masked gunmen on Thursday seized government buildings in the capital of the Crimea region of Ukraine, barricaded themselves inside and raised the Russian flag, raising the specter of a separatist rebellion that could tear the country apart.
乌克兰辛菲罗波尔——周四，蒙面持枪者占领了乌克兰克里米亚地区首府的政府大楼，把自己关在里面，并且升起了俄罗斯国旗，此举带来了分离主义叛乱的威胁，可能会让这个国家变得四分五裂。
Further inflaming an increasingly volatile situation, Viktor F. Yanukovych released a statement Thursday saying that he remained the lawful president of Ukraine and appealed to Russia to protect “my personal safety.” While his precise whereabouts remained a mystery, Russian news agencies reported subsequently that Mr. Yanukovych would hold a news conference on Friday in Rostov-on-Don, a city in southern Russia, six days after he was driven from power by mass protests and fled from Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.
周四，维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)发表声明称自己仍然是乌克兰的合法总统，并请求俄罗斯保护“我的人身安全”，该声明进一步加剧了越来越不稳定的局势。他目前的确切下落依然是个谜，但俄罗斯新闻机构随后报道，亚努科维奇将于周五——亦即他被大规模抗议赶下台，逃离乌克兰首都基辅六天后——在俄罗斯南部城市顿河畔罗斯托夫召开新闻发布会。
In a calming note, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Thursday that he been assured by Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, that Russia would respect the “territorial integrity” of Ukraine. Mr. Kerry said that he had spoken with Mr. Lavrov, who assured him that a surprise military exercise in western Russia had been previously scheduled and was not related to the political upheaval in Ukraine.
周四，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在一次安抚人心的讲话中说，俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)已经向他保证，俄罗斯会尊重乌克兰的“领土完整”。克里说，他已经与拉夫罗夫谈过话，后者向他保证，于俄罗斯西部举行的出人意料的军事演习是之前就安排好的，与乌克兰的政治动荡并无关联。
“Everyone now needs to step back and avoid any kind of provocations over Ukraine,” said Mr. Kerry, who said that he had proposed that the United States and Russia try to cooperate on easing tensions there.
“目前，每个人都要后退一步，避免与乌克兰有关的任何挑衅行为，”克里表示。他还说，他已提议美俄两国就缓解当地紧张局势展开合作。
In the Crimean regional capital, Simferopol, local police officers sealed off access to the government buildings, including the regional Parliament, which were seized in mysterious overnight raids by people who appeared to be militant ethnic Russians. A spokeswoman for the speaker, Vladimir Konstantinov, said that Parliament had voted to hold a referendum on greater autonomy on May 25, the scheduled date of a presidential election.
在克里米亚地区首府辛菲罗波尔，当地警察封锁了进入地区议会等政府大楼的道路。这些地方已在昨夜的神秘突袭中被人占领，占领者似乎是好战的俄罗斯族民众。克里米亚议会议长弗拉基米尔·康斯坦丁诺夫(Vladimir Konstantinov)的一名女发言人说，议会已经投票决定在5月25日就赋予更大自治权的问题进行公投，这个日期也是计划中的总统选举日。
Crimea has been a source of tension between Ukraine and Russia for decades: the territory was transferred to Ukraine by the Russian Federation when they were both components of the Soviet Union in 1954, and Ukraine retained it when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, though Russia still maintains important military bases there, including the home port of the Black Sea Fleet.
数十年来，克里米亚一直是乌克兰和俄罗斯紧张关系的一个源头：1954年，俄罗斯联邦(Russian Federation)把克里米亚交给了同属苏联的乌克兰，1991年苏联解体时，乌克兰留住了克里米亚，但俄罗斯至今仍在当地保有重要的军事基地，包括黑海舰队(Black Sea Fleet)的母港。
Oleksandr V. Turchynov, the speaker of Parliament and acting president of Ukraine, urged Russian military forces early on Thursday not to stray out of the designated Russian military zones.
周四早间，议长、乌克兰代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)敦促俄罗斯部队不要越出指定的俄罗斯军事区。
“I am addressing the Russian Black Sea Fleet command with a demand: all military servicemen should stay within the boundaries of of the territories stipulated by agreement,” Mr. Turchynov said as he presided over the Parliament. “Any movement of military servicemen with weapons outside this territory will be viewed as military aggression.” 
“我对俄罗斯黑海舰队指挥部有个请求：所有军人都应该待在协议规定的军事区范围之内，”图奇诺夫在主持议会会议时说。“倘若持有武器的军人在这个区域以外有任何举动，都将被视作军事侵略。”
In his statement, Mr. Yanukovych warned that the largely Russian regions in eastern and southern Ukraine, including Crimea, would “not accept the anarchy and outright lawlessness” that has gripped the country. “I continue to consider myself the lawful head of the Ukrainian government, elected on the basis of the free expression of the will of Ukrainian citizens,” he said in the statement, according to news agencies, RIA Novosti and Itar-Tass. “I cannot be indifferent to the tragic events in my homeland.”
亚努科维奇在声明中说，克里米亚等乌克兰东部及南部以俄罗斯族为主的地区“不会接受”困扰乌克兰的“无政府状态和全无法纪的状态”。俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)和俄通社-塔斯社(Itar-Tass)报道称，他在声明中说，“我仍然认为自己是乌克兰政府的合法首脑，是在乌克兰公民自由表达意愿的基础上当选的。我不能对祖国的悲剧事件无动于衷。”
Whether he can cling to any part of his former power remains far from clear. Members of his own party have deserted him, and the Ukrainian Parliament impeached him and moved on Thursday to approve an interim government, with elections for a new president planned for May.
他能否拿回原来的任何权力仍然不得而知。他自己党派的成员已经背弃了他，乌克兰议会也已将他弹劾，并于周四批准成立了一个过渡政府，新的总统选举定于5月进行。
Mr. Yanukovych’s remarks were his first since Saturday, when he appeared in a video that apparently was recorded in his political base in eastern Ukraine. Even in his diminished and humiliated position, with journalists and ordinary people traipsing through his presidential palace and sorting through incriminating records, Mr. Yanukovych asserted his authority over the country’s armed forces and warned that they should not be called in to quell the apparent rebellion in Simferopol.
这是亚努科维奇自上周六以来首次发表的言论。上周六，他在一段视频里现身，视频看上去是在他位于乌克兰东部的政治大本营录制的。亚努科维奇地位削弱，颜面尽失，记者和普通人都可以随意进出他的总统府，列举他的种种罪状，尽管如此，他仍声称自己有权指挥该国武装力量，并且警告称，不应派遣他们去平定辛菲罗波尔的疑似叛乱。
“I, as the actual president, have not allowed the armed forces of Ukraine to interfere in the ongoing internal political events,” he said, contradicting reports that he had ordered the military to intervene in Kiev, only to have his order rebuffed. “I continue to order this. In the case that anyone begins to give a similar order to the armed forces and power structures, those orders will be unlawful and criminal.”
“作为真正的总统，我并未允许乌克兰武装力量干涉正在上演的内政事件，”他表示，此言与先前的报道相互矛盾，因为报道称他曾下令军队干涉基辅的事件，只不过遭到了拒绝。“我会继续下达这样的命令。假如有人开始向乌克兰武装力量和权力机构下达类似的命令，那些命令将是违法且有罪的。”
Russia has denounced the political upheaval in Kiev and refused to recognize the new interim government, but officials have also insisted that Russia would not intervene, even as it began a major military drill on Ukraine’s doorstep. Granting sanctuary to Mr. Yanukovych even as he claims to lead Ukraine would nonetheless deepen the confrontation with Europe and the United States.
俄罗斯对基辅发生的政治动乱表示了谴责，并拒绝承认新成立的过渡政府，但一些官员同时坚称，俄罗斯虽然在乌克兰家门口开始了大规模的军事演习，但却不会插手。然而，在亚努科维奇声称自己仍是乌克兰领袖的时候为其提供庇护，仍然会加深俄罗斯与欧洲和美国的对抗。
The overnight raids in Simferopol created an ominous uncertainty here and left residents stunned. The raids took place just hours after thousands of Crimean Tatars, the region’s minority indigenous Turkic population, and a separate throng of ethnic Russians staged competing rallies outside Crimea’s regional Parliament. The rallies, which ended in a melee and left several people injured, disrupted a session of the regional Parliament that hard-line pro-Russia groups had hoped would declare Crimea’s secession from Ukraine.
辛菲罗波尔的夜间突袭在当地引发了一种不祥的不确定性，致使居民倍感震惊。突袭发生几小时前，数千克里米亚鞑靼族民众和一群俄罗斯族民众在克里米亚地区议会外上演了针锋相对的集会。鞑靼族是该地区的少数民族土著，说土耳其语。集会在一场混战中结束，混战导致数人受伤，并迫使该地区议会的一场会议中断。强硬派亲俄罗斯组织本希望这次会议会宣布克里米亚脱离乌克兰。
“This is the first step toward civil war,” said Igor Baklanov, a computer expert who joined a group of anxious residents gathered in a cold drizzle at a police line near the seized regional legislature. Rumors swirled of Russian troops on the way from Sevastopol, the headquarters of Russia’s Black Sea fleet, of Russian nationalists arriving in force to reinforce the blockaded government buildings and of negotiations between the local authorities and the unidentified gunmen.
“这是迈向内战的第一步，”电脑专家伊戈尔·巴克拉诺夫(Igor Baklanov)说。寒风之中，他和一群焦虑的居民聚集在被占领的地区立法机构附近的警戒线旁。传言甚嚣尘上，称俄罗斯军队正在从俄罗斯黑海舰队(Black Sea fleet)总部所在地塞瓦斯托波尔赶来、大批俄罗斯民族主义者正赶赴这里以增援被封锁的政府大楼，而地方当局正在和身份不明的持枪者进行谈判。
Refat Chubalov, a member of the assembly and leader of Crimea’s ethnic Tatar minority, warned that any vote to separate Crimea from Ukraine would be “very dangerous.” Asserting that Russian armored vehicles were waiting outside the city, he called for calm but also urged Tatar residents to form “self-defense” units to protect their interests.
议会议员、克里米亚少数民族鞑靼族领袖里法特·丘巴洛夫(Refat Chubalov)警告称，任何试图将克里米亚从乌克兰分离出去的投票都“非常危险”。他声称俄罗斯的装甲车辆就在城外待命，并且呼吁各方保持冷静，同时也敦促鞑靼族居民组成“自卫”队，以便保护自己的利益。
He blamed pro-Russian forces for the overnight seizure of government buildings, describing the action as “a direct interference in the affairs of Crimea and of Ukraine.”
他指责亲俄力量应为夜间占领政府大楼的行动负责，称这一行动“是对克里米亚和乌克兰事务的直接干涉”。
The developments came as the authorities in Kiev and Moscow traded bellicose warnings. Mr. Lavrov was quoted as saying that his country would defend its compatriots in Ukraine “uncompromisingly,” while officials in Kiev warned the Russian military to remain within its base in Sevastopol.
出现这些变化时，乌克兰当局和俄罗斯当局正在相互发出硝烟味十足的警告。有报道称拉夫罗夫曾表示他的国家会“坚决”保护身在乌克兰的同胞，基辅的官员则警告俄罗斯军队不要越出塞瓦斯托波尔的基地。
Failure to remain on the base “will be considered a military aggression,” Ukraine’s acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, told the national Parliament, news reports said. Meanwhile, Russian mobilized air and ground forces for military exercises in Western Russia.
新闻报道称，乌克兰代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫告诉乌克兰议会，越出基地“会被视作军事侵略”。与此同时，俄罗斯调集了空中和地面力量，开始在俄罗斯西部举行军事演习。