GROZNY, Chechnya — A fierce gun battle between Islamist militants and government security forces paralyzed the center of the Chechen capital, Grozny, overnight Thursday, leaving at least 20 people dead and embarrassing President Vladimir V. Putin just hours before he delivered his state-of-the-nation speech in Moscow.
车臣格罗兹尼——周四夜间，伊斯兰主义武装分子与政府安全部队爆发激烈的枪战，导致车臣首府格罗兹尼市中心陷入瘫痪，并造成至少20人死亡。这一事件发生在俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在莫斯科发表国情咨文仅几个小时之前，使其陷入了难堪境地。
It was the most violent, brazen attack linked to militant activity in the region in months. As dawn broke, smoke was rising from several locations, residents said in telephone interviews. Kheda Saratova, a human-rights activist, said that gunfire continued through the morning.
这是车臣地区数月来发生的与激进活动有关的最为暴力而肆无忌惮的袭击。居民接受电话采访时表示，天亮的时候，能看到城里好几个地方在冒烟。人权活动人士赫达·萨拉托娃(Kheda Saratova)称，枪战一直持续到整个上午。
There was some speculation among analysts and on social media that the assault was carried out by fighters linked to the Islamic State or other radical groups fighting in Syria. If so, it would be the first such attack inside Russia.
一些分析人士及社交媒体猜测，发起攻击的是与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)或在叙利亚作战的其他极端组织有关的武装分子。果真如此的话，这是俄罗斯境内首次发生此类袭击事件。
Chechen fighters in Syria have threatened to carry out attacks in response to Moscow’s unalloyed support for the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.
身处叙利亚的车臣武装分子已发出实施攻击的威胁，为的是报复莫斯科对叙利亚总统总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的绝对支持。
Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the Kremlin ally who runs Chechnya, sought to play down the violence, attending Mr. Putin’s speech in Moscow and claiming that the reconstruction of the damaged buildings had already begun.
拥护克里姆林宫的车臣领导人拉姆赞·A·卡德罗夫(Ramzan A. Kadyrov)试图淡化此次暴力活动。他来到莫斯科聆听普京的演讲，并宣称该地区已经开始重建受损的建筑。
“When this all started,” Mr. Kadyrov told reporters at the Kremlin, “I flew home, organized a special operation, killed the devils, held a meeting, gathered the staff needed to restore the damaged building and made it back in time to listen to the address of our national leader.” He was seen during the speech checking his telephone intently.
“事情发生时，”卡德罗夫在克里姆林宫对记者表示。“我飞了回去，组织开展了特别行动，击毙了坏蛋，召开了会议，召集了负责恢复受损建筑的相关人员，然后又及时赶回来听总统发表讲话。”有人看到，在普京演讲期间，他目不转睛地盯着手机。
Mr. Putin also made a passing reference to the attack, first suggesting that the West was behind the long history of terrorist insurgency in the restive Caucasus Mountains because it wanted to break up Russia, just as it had Yugoslavia.
对于此次攻击事件，普京在演讲中一语带过，先是暗示西方国家在背后搞鬼，致使高加索山脉地区长期以来动荡不安，恐怖叛乱活动猖獗，因为西方希望参照拆分南斯拉夫的做法来瓦解俄罗斯。
“Now these ‘rebels’ showed themselves again in Chechnya,” Mr. Putin said. “I am sure the local guys, local law enforcement bodies, will cope with it properly. They are working now to liquidate a new terrorist raid.”
“现在‘反叛分子’又出现在车臣，”普京说。“我确信当地的相关人员和执法机构会恰当地处理。眼下他们正在努力阻止恐怖分子发起新的袭击。
In a further attempt to reassure the public, state television showed Mr. Putin in his office meeting with Mr. Kadyrov. The Chechen leader assured the president that Grozny was under control, describing the operations there, while Mr. Putin instructed that the families of the dead government troops should be comforted.
为了进一步消除民众的疑虑，官方电视台播放了普京在办公室会见卡德罗夫的画面。这名车臣领导人向普京保证，格罗兹尼处于控制之下，并介绍了当地开展的行动，而普京则做出指示，要求抚慰政府部队遇难人员的家属。
Mr. Putin cemented his popularity after first assuming power in 2000 by ending a protracted war in Chechnya. Mr. Kadyrov, while often accused of human rights violations, pushed the militants out of Chechnya itself into neighboring republics, where the level of attacks rose. Chechnya has remained relatively calm.
普京于2000年初次掌权后，因为结束了在车臣的旷日持久的战争而巩固了自己的支持率。卡德罗夫经常被指践踏人权，不过他把激进分子从车臣赶到了周边的共和国。虽然这些地方的攻击活动有所增多，但车臣的局面一直相对平静。
Both the attack and the brewing economic crisis seemed to raise simultaneous questions about the signature achievements of Mr. Putin’s presidency: ending the Chechen war and obtaining unprecedented prosperity for many Russians.
此次攻击和正在发酵的经济危机似乎对普京担任总统期间的两项标志性成就同时提出了质疑。这些成就分别是：结束车臣战争，以及为许多俄罗斯人带来了前所未有的经济繁荣。
Most of the violence in the Caucasus goes unnoticed because it takes place outside major urban centers. But Caucasian Knot, an authoritative website that tracks events in the region, said that 290 people had been killed and 144 wounded in fighting scattered through the Caucasus this year through the end of November.
高加索地区的大多数暴力活动，因为发生在主要的城市中心以外，所以并未引起注意。但是，跟踪该地区事件的权威网站“高加索焦点”(Caucasian Knot)表示，截至11月底，共有290人在今年高加索各地的战斗中身亡，另有144人受伤。
Thursday’s attack was the third major assault this year, it said, following a suicide bombing in Grozny on Oct. 5 that killed five people and the destruction of a government armored personnel carrier by a land mine in April in which four soldiers were killed and seven wounded.
“高加索焦点”称，周四的袭击是今年的第三次重大攻击事件。此前的两次包括：10月5日，格罗兹尼受到自杀式炸弹袭击，导致5人丧生；4月，一辆政府的装甲运输车被一枚地雷炸毁，共导致4名士兵死亡，7人受伤。
On Thursday, militants traveling in three cars infiltrated the capital around 1 a.m., killing three traffic police officers at a checkpoint and then occupying the 10-story House of Publishing at the center of the city, according to a statement by the National Antiterrorist Committee. Six of the gunmen were killed by security officers inside the building, which was gutted by fire that spread to a nearby market, it said.
根据国家反恐委员会(National Antiterrorist Committee)的声明，周四凌晨1时左右，武装分子乘三辆汽车潜入格罗兹尼，在一个检查站杀害了3名交通警察，然后占领了位于市中心的10层大楼“报刊之家”(House of Publishing)。声明称，其中6名持枪歹徒被大楼内的安保人员击毙。这栋楼因双方的交火而变得面目全非，激战还蔓延到了附近的一座市场。
The rest of the attackers were found near the House of Publishing in School No. 20, where fighting continued into Thursday, the statement said. Neither teachers nor students were at the school when it was seized, according to Russian news reports.
声明称，后来在“报刊之家”附近的第20中学发现了其他袭击者，而这里的战斗一直持续到周四白天。根据俄罗斯媒体的报道，当学校被占领时，里面既没有老师也没有学生。
Ten police officers and nine militants were killed, Russian and Chechen government officials said. Another 28 police officers were injured, Andrey Chatsky, a spokesman for the antiterrorist committee, said in a statement broadcast on Russian television that also confirmed the police death toll.
俄罗斯联邦和车臣政府的官员称，共有10名警察和9名武装分子死亡。反恐委员会发言人安德烈·恰茨基(Andrey Chatsky)在俄罗斯电视台播出的一则声明中称，另有28名警察受伤。该声明也证实了警方的死亡人数。
Law enforcement agents eliminated at least nine militants, Mr. Kadyrov said in a statement posted on his website, noting, “We have the corpses.” He said the antiterrorist operation was over. He did not mention civilian casualties, and the Interior Ministry for the Chechen Republic did not answer telephone calls on Thursday evening.
卡德罗夫在发布在自己网站上的声明中称，执法人员消灭了至少9名武装分子，并且指出“我们手里有尸体。”他声称，反恐行动已经结束。他没有提及平民的伤亡情况，而车臣共和国内政部也没有接听周四晚上的采访电话。
The Interfax news agency quoted Mr. Kadyrov as saying that civilian victims of the violence would be compensated. As the fighting continued early Thursday, he used social media accounts to advise downtown residents to remain at home and away from windows.
俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引卡德罗夫的话报道，遭此次暴力冲突牵连的平民将获得赔偿。周四凌晨，随着战斗的继续进行，他利用社交媒体帐户提醒市区的居民留在家中，并远离窗口。