PARIS — I WAS born in Russia at the dawn of the Brezhnev era, and Brezhnev died when I was a senior in high school.
巴黎——勃列日涅夫(Brezhnev)时代即将到来时，我在俄罗斯出生。勃列日涅夫去世时，我是一名高中毕业班的学生。
At the time, Russia and Ukraine were part of the same country. War between them — which many now fear is imminent — was unimaginable. My friends and I read books about Ukraine’s anti-Nazi underground fighters, as boys read books about knights or pirates. Any wars were always “out there” — a long time ago or far, far away.
那时，俄罗斯和乌克兰属于同一个国家，它们之间爆发战争是无法想象的。而现在，许多人担心，俄乌之战迫在眉睫。我和朋友们都看过关于乌克兰反纳粹地下战士的书，就像男孩子看有关骑士和海盗的书一样。任何战争总是“很遥远”——不是发生在很久以前，就是在很远很远的地方。
The world of my childhood was quiet and secure. There were no unemployed, beggars or homeless — or maybe I just never met them. There was no Coca-Cola or McDonald’s — but no one was starving, either. Of course, the TV and newspapers were filled with state propaganda, but we tuned it out, the way our children tune out annoying ads.
在我的孩提时代，世界既安静，又安全。没有人失业、没有乞丐，也没有无家可归的人——或者可能只是因为我从没遇到过他们。没有可口可乐(Coca-Cola)，也没有麦当劳(McDonald’s)，但也没人忍饥挨饿。当然，电视和报纸上充斥着官方的宣传，但我们会关掉电视，合上报纸，就像我们的孩子避开讨厌的广告一样。
The world of my Soviet childhood didn’t look like a totalitarian dystopia or the threshold of a gulag. It was just boring.
在我的童年，苏联看上去并不像是极权主义的反乌托邦或古拉格的入口。只是很无聊。
Go to school. Attend university. Get a secure job. Retire. Die. No challenges, no surprises. No risk, no violence, no sex. It was difficult to become a loser, and impossible to be a winner.
上学。读大学。找一份稳定的工作。退休。死。没有挑战，没有意外。没有风险，没有暴力，没有性。很难成为输家，也不可能成为赢家。
Boring.
无聊。
Really, I hated it all. I sensed a big lie. I was sure that there was hidden terror under the surface of everyday life. There had to exist zones of violence and chaos — I knew this even before I heard about the prison camps and political repression.
我真的很讨厌那样。我感觉这像是一个弥天大谎。我确信，在日常生活的表象下隐藏着恐惧。肯定存在有暴力和混乱的地区——在听说监狱集中营和政治压迫之前，我就知道这一点了。
And then Brezhnev died and the chaos I had always suspected rose to the surface. The Soviet Union collapsed, and the ’90s became a frightening decade of gangsters, corruption and poverty. But I was triumphant; about the chaos and the violence, I had been right all along.
后来，勃列日涅夫去世，我之前一直怀疑的那些混乱浮出了水面。苏联解体了，上世纪90年代成了一个可怕的10年，充斥着暴徒、腐败和贫穷。但我洋洋自得；对骚乱和暴力的猜测，我一直都是对的。
My generation, which had been on its way to living the boring lives of state employees, was enchanted. An underground punk group sang, “We left our melancholy in the past to turn Moscow into Beirut!” and a young journalist, commenting on the bloody conflicts in October 1993 that followed Yeltsin’s attempt to dissolve the legislature, marveled, “I had never expected to see Russian tanks shoot at the Russian Parliament!” There was excitement underlying his words, witness to the challenges and the surprises of a new reality.
我那一代人着了魔，在那之前，他们即将过上国有单位员工的乏味生活。一个地下朋克乐队唱道，“为了把莫斯科变成贝鲁特，我们把忧郁留在了过去！”叶利钦(Yeltsin)在1993年10月试图解散议会，之后爆发了流血冲突。一名年轻的记者在评论相关冲突时感慨道，“我从没想到，竟会看到俄罗斯坦克向俄罗斯议会开火！”他的言语中有一种兴奋，因为他见证了挑战，也见证了一种出人意料的新现实。
In the ’90s, we discovered that Russian history is cyclical. A phase of boring bureaucracy is replaced by a phase of chaos and violence. So Stalin came to power after the Russian Civil War, and Brezhnev’s boring ’70s replaced the dramatic ’60s.
上世纪90年代，我们发现，俄罗斯的历史是循环的。一段枯燥乏味的官僚主义时期，会被一段充斥着骚乱和暴力的时期所取代。所以，斯大林在俄国内战结束后上了台，而勃列日涅夫统治下单调乏味的70年代取代了戏剧性的60年代。
Bureaucracy promises imperial power and a stable life. The cost is repression and lies.
官僚主义预示着皇权和稳定的生活。代价是压迫和谎言。
Anarchy promises freedom and opportunity. The cost is violence and fear.
无政府状态预示着自由和机遇。代价是暴力和恐惧。
By the end of the ’90s, many of us regretted the excitement we had once felt. Everyone was tired of anarchy. Even teenagers had come to appreciate family values and stability. This mood helped Vladimir V. Putin rocket to power in the Kremlin. He resurrected the Soviet culture of our childhoods, with old hymns and state propaganda on TV. Of course, political repression and persecution soon followed.
到上世纪90年代末，我们中的许多人懊悔自己曾经感到兴奋。所有人都厌倦了无政府状态。就连十几岁的青少年都开始重视家庭价值观和稳定。这种情绪帮助弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)迅速上台，入主克里姆林宫。他恢复了我们孩提时代的苏联文化，电视上出现了古老的赞美诗和官方的宣传内容。当然，政治打压和迫害很快便接踵而至。
Brezhnev had been the head of the Soviet Union for 18 years. Mr. Putin has ruled Russia for nearly 15. It’s time to turn the wheel of Russian history once again. The anti-Putin rallies of 2011-12 were the first reminder of this; the Ukrainian Maidan revolution was the second. My guess is that Mr. Putin’s sincere fear of this cycle is one of the reasons for the current war.
勃列日涅夫曾担任苏联领导人18年。普京统治俄罗斯已近15年。是时候让俄罗斯历史的车轮再次转动起来了。2011年和2012年的反普京集会，首次向人们提醒了这一点；乌克兰独立广场上的革命是第二个提醒。我猜，普京对这种循环怀有真真切切的恐惧，这正是当下可能爆发的战争的原因之一。
Like any repressive regime, Mr. Putin’s knows how to create autonomous zones of violence. The main lawless zone during his reign has been the Caucasus, especially Chechnya, where civilians, journalists and human rights defenders have been kidnapped and killed throughout the last 20 years. Mr. Putin used any manifestation of violence to strengthen his own power. Thus, after the Beslan terrorist attack in 2004, Mr. Putin eliminated direct elections for the office of governor (including governor of Moscow), essentially giving himself control over the appointments.
和所有专制政权一样，普京知道如何设立独立的暴力区域。他在位期间，主要的法外之地是高加索地区，尤其是车臣。过去20年里，许多平民、记者和人权律师在车臣被绑架并遇害。普京会利用任何暴力事件来增强自己的权力。因而，在2004年的别斯兰恐怖主义袭击后，普京取消了地方行政长官（包括莫斯科的地方行政长官）职位的直接选举，而这在本质上是让他自己去控制相关人事任命。
Chaos at the margins can make a repressive system stronger. However, the system has to up the ante in order to maintain itself. This time, the zone of lawlessness is bigger than ever. Instead of risking his own Maidan revolution in Red Square, Mr. Putin has exported Russia’s Chechnya-style chaos to the southeast of Ukraine, turning Donbass into Beirut or Gaza. Everyone who lusts for action and violence now has a place to kill and to die.
边缘地带的乱局可以让一个专制制度更强大。然而，为了维系自身，这个制度不得不增加赌注。这一次，这块法外之地比以往任何时候都大。普京将俄罗斯车臣式的骚乱输出到了乌克兰东南部，把顿巴斯变成了贝鲁特或加沙，而不是让红场出现独立广场式革命。现在，所有渴望行动和暴力的人都有地方去杀人和送死。
Perhaps the people of Donbass, members of the Ukrainian military and even the passengers of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 were killed to save Mr. Putin’s Russia from a new stage of anarchy.
或许，顿巴斯的民众、乌克兰的军人，乃至马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines) MH17航班乘客的死亡，都是为了避免普京统治下的俄罗斯进入一个新的无政府时期。
It’s easy to imagine the teenage boy today who hates official lies and boredom the way I did. He watches TV and reads on the Internet about heroic Russian rebels, and he is excited. He glimpses the challenges and the surprises of a new reality.
很容易想象现如今十几岁的男孩，会以我当年的方式，厌恶官方的谎言和乏味。他会看电视，在互联网上看有关英勇的俄罗斯叛乱分子的内容，他会感到兴奋。他会瞥见一种新的现实带来的挑战和惊喜。