MOSCOW — As Russia warned Ukraine on Tuesday that it could run out of natural gas within two days because of a dispute over payments, Britain said it was sending military trainers to aid Ukrainian forces while European diplomats labored to patch up a flagging peace agreement in eastern Ukraine.
莫斯科——俄罗斯周二警告称，由于付款方面的争议，乌克兰的天然气可能两天之内便会用完，与此同时，英国称将派遣军事训练人员前去协助乌克兰军队，而欧洲外交官则在费力修复乌克兰东部日益式微的和平协议。
The warning by Alexey B. Miller, the chief executive of Gazprom, the state-controlled Russian energy behemoth, illustrated how the hostilities between Russia and Ukraine are hardly limited to the battlefields in eastern Ukraine, where a cease-fire agreed to nearly two weeks ago has still not fully taken hold.
俄罗斯国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气）首席执行官阿列克谢·B·米勒(Alexey B. Miller)发出的警告表明，俄罗斯和乌克兰之间的敌意并不限于乌克兰东部的战场。在乌克兰东部，近两周前达成的停火协议至今尚未完全生效。
Russia has long used its muscle as the region's major energy supplier to wield political and economic influence, particularly in disputes with Ukraine and other former Soviet republics. A bitter feud over gas payments has been a subplot of the wider political dispute between Moscow and Kiev over the past year.
长期以来，俄罗斯一直利用自己作为该地区主要能源供应方的地位，施加政治和经济影响，尤其是在与乌克兰及其他前苏联加盟共和国的争端中。过去一年里，围绕天然气费用支付的激烈争端，一直是俄乌两国总体政治争端的一项。
As part of that dispute, Russia last year cut off supplies and ended a longstanding practice of selling gas to Ukraine on credit and instead demanded prepayment.
在这起争端中，俄罗斯去年切断了供应，结束了长年向乌克兰赊销天然气的做法，转而要求其预先付款。
“Ukraine has not made prepayment for gas on time,” Miller said at a news conference in Russia, local news agencies reported. He added that the time needed for Kiev to make a payment “will result in a total end to supplies of Russian gas to Ukraine in just two days, which poses serious risks for gas transit to Europe.”
当地通讯社报道称，米勒在俄罗斯的新闻发布会上说，“乌克兰未能按时支付天然气款项。”他接着表示，基辅在最后期限前不能付款“将导致俄罗斯对乌克兰的天然气供应在两天后彻底停止，给面向欧洲的天然气输送构成严重威胁”。
However, Ukraine says it has already paid for all the gas it requested for this year, and for an additional 287 million cubic meters not yet ordered. Kiev is now accusing Russia of violating an agreement reached in October, under which Ukraine paid $3.1 billion in past gas bills and Gazprom resumed supplies on a prepaid basis. That agreement was expected to keep Ukraine fully supplied with gas through the winter.
然而，乌克兰称已为今年所需的全部天然气，以及尚未下单的额外2.87亿立方米天然气付了款。基辅现在指责俄罗斯违反了去年10月达成的一项协议。根据该协议，乌克兰支付了过去31亿美元（约合194亿元人民币）的天然气账单，俄气在预付费的前提下恢复供气。该协议本来预计会让乌克兰整个冬天都有充足的天然气供应。
The dispute seems to hinge at least in part on the gas that Russia has delivered to the breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine, which it says counts toward the total Kiev bought in advance.
相关争议似乎至少在一定程度上源自俄罗斯输送给乌克兰东部分裂地区的天然气。俄罗斯称，输送给那里的天然气被计入了基辅预先付款购买的总量中。