The headline in Pravda trumpeted President Vladimir Putin's latest coup, its nationalistic fervor recalling an era when the newspaper served as the official mouthpiece of the Kremlin: “Russian Nuclear Energy Conquers the World.”
俄罗斯《真理报》的标题大肆宣扬了弗拉基米尔·普京总统(President Vladimir Putin)取得的最新胜利，标题的民族主义热情令人想起该报作为克里姆林宫官方喉舌的年代：“俄罗斯核能征服世界。”
The article, in January 2013, detailed how the Russian atomic energy agency, Rosatom, had taken over a Canadian company with uranium-mining stakes stretching from Central Asia to the American West. The deal made Rosatom one of the world's largest uranium producers and brought Putin closer to his goal of controlling much of the global uranium supply chain.
这篇发表于2013年1月的文章详细讲述了俄罗斯原子能机构“俄罗斯国家原子能公司”(Rosatom)收购一个加拿大公司的故事，该加拿大公司拥有从中亚到美国西部的大片土地上的铀矿开采权。这笔交易让俄罗斯国家原子能公司成为世界上最大的铀生产商之一，也让志在控制全球大部分铀供应链的普京向目标又迈进了一步。
But the untold story behind that story is one that involves not just the Russian president but also a former U.S. president and a woman who would like to be the next one.
但是，在那个故事的背后还有一个不为人知的故事，不仅涉及到俄罗斯总统，还涉及到一位美国前总统和一位想当下届美国总统的女人。
At the heart of the tale are several men, leaders of the Canadian mining industry, who have been major donors to the charitable endeavors of former President Bill Clinton and his family. Members of that group built, financed and eventually sold to the Russians a company that would become known as Uranium One.
故事的核心是几个男人，他们是加拿大采矿业的首要人物，也一直是前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)及其家人的慈善事业的主要捐赠者。这个圈子的成员出资成立了一家最终出售给俄罗斯的公司，也就是日后为人所知的铀壹公司(Uranium One)。
Beyond mines in Kazakhstan that are among the most lucrative in the world, the sale gave the Russians control of one-fifth of all uranium production capacity in the United States. Since uranium is considered a strategic asset, with implications for national security, the deal had to be approved by a committee composed of representatives from a number of U.S. government agencies. Among the agencies that eventually signed off was the State Department, then headed by Clinton's wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
那笔交易除了把位于哈萨克斯坦的全球最赚钱的铀矿卖给了俄罗斯之外，还让俄罗斯得以控制美国全国铀产能的五分之一。因为铀被认为是一种战略资产，影响到国家安全，那笔交易必须由一个委员会批准，委员会由来自多个美国政府机构的代表组成。在最终签署同意那笔交易的机构中有国务院，克林顿的夫人希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)当时担任国务卿。
As the Russians gradually assumed control of Uranium One in three separate transactions from 2009 to 2013, Canadian records show, a flow of cash made its way to the Clinton Foundation. Uranium One's chairman used his family foundation to make four donations totaling $2.35 million. Those contributions were not publicly disclosed by the Clintons, despite an agreement Hillary Clinton had struck with the Obama White House to publicly identify all donors. Other people with ties to the company made donations as well.
俄罗斯人从2009至2013年间，分别通过三笔交易逐步获得了铀壹公司控制权，与此同时，加拿大的记录显示，现金源源不断地流进了克林顿基金会。铀壹公司的董事长用其家族基金会的名义做了四笔总额为235万美元（当时约合1533万元人民币）的捐款。尽管希拉里·克林顿曾与奥巴马的白宫达成协议，表示要公开所有捐款者的身份，克林顿夫妇并没有公开这些捐款。其他一些与铀壹公司有关系的人也捐了款。
And shortly after the Russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in Uranium One, Bill Clinton received $500,000 for a Moscow speech from a Russian investment bank with links to the Kremlin that was promoting Uranium One stock.
就在俄罗斯宣布打算收购铀壹公司的多数股权后不久，比尔·克林顿拿到一笔50万美元的莫斯科演讲费，这笔钱来自一家与克里姆林宫有关系的俄罗斯投资银行，当时银行正在推铀壹公司的股票。
The New York Times' examination of the Uranium One deal is based on dozens of interviews, as well as a review of public records and securities filings in Canada, Russia and the United States. Some of the connections between Uranium One and the Clinton Foundation were unearthed by Peter Schweizer, a former fellow at the right-leaning Hoover Institution and author of the forthcoming book “Clinton Cash.” Schweitzer provided a preview of material in the book to The Times, which scrutinized his information and built upon it with its own reporting.
《纽约时报》对铀壹公司交易的调查是基于几十次采访以及查阅加拿大、俄罗斯和美国的公共记录和证券档案。铀壹公司与克林顿基金会之间的有些关系是彼得·施韦泽(Peter Schweizer)发现的，他是亲右派的胡佛研究所(Hoover Institution)的前研究员，即将出版的新书《克林顿现金》(Clinton Cash)的作者。施韦泽向时报提供了书中材料的预印本，时报认真核实了他的信息，并在其基础上进行了自己的报道。
Whether the donations played any role in the approval of the uranium deal is unknown. But the episode underscores the special challenges presented by the Clinton Foundation, headed by a former president who relied heavily on foreign cash to accumulate $250 million in assets even as his wife helped steer U.S. foreign policy as secretary of state.
捐款是否对铀壹收购交易的批准起了作用尚属未知。但这件事凸显了克林顿基金会所带来的特殊挑战，这个以一位前总统为首的基金会，主要依赖来自国外的现金积累了2.5亿美元的资产，而与此同时，作为国务卿的前总统夫人则是一个能影响美国外交政策走向的人。
In a statement, Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign, said no one “has ever produced a shred of evidence supporting the theory that Hillary Clinton ever took action as secretary of state to support the interests of donors to the Clinton Foundation.”
希拉里·克林顿的总统竞选班子发言人布赖恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)在一份声明中说，“从未有人提供丝毫证据来支持下述理论，认为希拉里·克林顿作为国务卿曾采取任何行动支持克林顿基金会捐款者的利益。”
He emphasized that multiple U.S. agencies, as well as the Canadian government, had signed off on the deal and that, in general, such matters were handled at a level below the secretary.
他强调说，美国多个机构、以及加拿大政府都签署同意了那笔交易，并且在一般情况下，这类问题由比国务卿低一级别的官员处理。
“To suggest the State Department, under then-Secretary Clinton, exerted undue influence in the U.S. government's review of the sale of Uranium One is utterly baseless,” he added.
“暗示当时在克林顿国务卿领导下的国务院，对美国政府审查出售铀壹公司的交易施加了不适当的影响，是毫无根据的，”他补充说。
A Seat at the Table
谈判桌上的一个席位
The path to a Russian acquisition of U.S. uranium deposits began in 2005 in Kazakhstan, where Canadian mining financier Frank Giustra orchestrated his first big uranium deal, with Bill Clinton at his side.
俄罗斯收购美国铀矿的行动计划于2005年始于哈萨克斯坦，加拿大矿业融资人弗兰克·朱斯特拉(Frank Giustra)在那里精心策划了他的首次大笔铀交易，比尔·克林顿当时在场。
The two men had flown aboard Giustra's private jet to Almaty, Kazakhstan, where they dined with the authoritarian president, Nursultan Nazarbayev. Clinton handed the Kazakh president a propaganda coup when he expressed support for Nazarbayev's bid to head an international elections monitoring group, undercutting U.S. foreign policy and criticism of Kazakhstan's poor human rights record by, among others, his wife, then a senator.
两人乘坐朱斯特拉的私人飞机前往哈萨克斯坦阿拉木图，他们在那里与独裁总统努尔苏丹·纳扎尔巴耶夫(Nursultan Nazarbayev)一起进餐。期间克林顿表示支持纳扎尔巴耶夫努力获取国际选举监督组织的领导职位，这个政治宣传奇招削弱了美国的外交政策，以及对纳扎尔巴耶夫糟糕的人权记录的批评，而批评者正包括他的妻子——时任参议员希拉里·克林顿。
Within days of the visit, Giustra's fledgling company, UrAsia Energy Ltd., signed a preliminary deal giving it stakes in three uranium mines controlled by the state-run uranium agency Kazatomprom.
在访问结束后的几天之内，朱斯特拉刚刚起步的公司UrAsia能源有限公司(UrAsia Energy Ltd.)就签署了一份初步协议，获得由国有铀机构哈萨克斯坦国有原子能公司(KazAtomProm)控制的三个铀矿的股份。
If the Kazakh deal was a major victory, UrAsia did not wait long before resuming the hunt. In 2007, it merged with Uranium One, a South African company with assets in Africa and Australia, in what was described as a $3.5 billion transaction. The new company, which kept the Uranium One name, was controlled by UrAsia investors including Ian Telfer, a Canadian who became chairman. Through a spokeswoman, Giustra, whose personal stake in the deal was estimated at about $45 million, said he sold his stake in 2007.
在哈萨克斯坦达成的交易也许是一次重大胜利，但UrAsia没过太久就再次搜寻下一个猎物了。2007年，该公司与铀壹公司合并，据称交易价为35亿美元。后者是南非的一家公司，在非洲和澳大利亚拥有资产。新公司保留了“铀壹公司”这个名称，由加拿大人伊恩·特尔弗(Ian Telfer)等UrAsia投资商控制，特尔弗成为新公司的董事长。达成交易后，朱斯特拉持有价值4500万美元的股份。朱斯特拉通过一名女发言人表示，他在2007年出售了自己持有的股份。
Soon, Uranium One began to snap up mining companies with assets in the United States. In April 2007, it announced the purchase of a uranium mill in Utah and more than 38,000 acres of uranium exploration properties in four Western states, followed quickly by the acquisition of the Energy Metals Corp. and its uranium holdings in Wyoming, Texas and Utah.
铀壹公司很快开始收购在美国拥有资产的矿业公司。2007年4月，该公司宣布收购犹他州的一个铀工厂，并在西部四个州收购逾3.8万英亩（约合1.5万公顷）的铀勘探地，接着很快就收购了能源金属公司(Energy Metals Corp.)及其在怀俄明州、德克萨斯州及犹他州的铀业资产。
Still, the company's story was hardly front-page news in the United States — until early 2008, in the midst of Hillary Clinton's failed presidential campaign, when The Times published an article revealing the 2005 trip's link to Giustra's Kazakhstan mining deal. It also reported that several months later, Giustra had donated $31.3 million to Bill Clinton's foundation.
但该公司的故事在美国很少成为新闻热点，直到2008年早些时候，在希拉里·克林顿竞选总统期间，时报发表了一篇文章，指出了克林顿2005年的哈萨克斯坦之行与朱斯特拉在该国达成的铀矿交易的关联，希拉里·克林顿最终竞选失败。该报道还指出，就在哈萨克斯坦之行几个月后，朱斯特拉向比尔·克林顿基金会捐赠了3130万美元。
Although the article quoted the former head of Kazatomprom, Moukhtar Dzhakishev, as saying that the deal required government approval and was discussed at a dinner with Nazarbayev, Giustra insisted that it was a private transaction, with no need for Bill Clinton's influence with Kazakh officials. He described his relationship with the former U.S. president as motivated solely by a shared interest in philanthropy.
虽然该文章援引前哈萨克斯坦国有原子能公司负责人穆赫塔尔·贾基舍夫(Moukhtar Dzhakishev)的话称，这笔交易需要获得政府批准，两人在与纳扎尔巴耶夫进餐时进行了讨论，但朱斯特拉坚称这是私人交易，不需要比尔·克林顿对哈萨克斯坦官员施加影响力。他称自己与这位美国前总统的关系只是源于两人在慈善事业上的共同兴趣。
As if to underscore the point, five months later Giustra held a fundraiser for the Clinton Giustra Sustainable Growth Initiative, a project aimed at fostering progressive environmental and labor practices in the natural resources industry, to which he had pledged $100 million.
似乎是为了强调这一点，朱斯特拉在5个月后为克林顿-朱斯特拉可持续增长计划(Clinton Giustra Sustainable Growth Initiative)举行了募捐活动，该计划旨在推动自然资源产业采取进步的环保和劳工举措，他做出了捐款一亿美元的承诺。
Arrest and Progress
被捕和进展
By June 2009, Uranium One's stock was in free-fall, down 40 percent. Dzhakishev, the head of Kazatomprom, had just been arrested on charges that he illegally sold uranium deposits to foreign companies, including at least some of those won by Giustra's UrAsia and now owned by Uranium One.
到2009年6月，铀壹公司的股价一落千丈，下跌了40%。哈萨克斯坦国有原子能公司负责人贾基舍夫因为将铀矿非法出售给外国公司而被逮捕，其中至少包括UrAsia所拥有的一些铀矿，这些铀矿现在归铀壹公司所有。
Privately, Uranium One officials were worried they could lose their joint mining ventures. U.S. diplomatic cables made public by WikiLeaks also reflect concerns that Dzhakishev's arrest was part of a Russian power play for control of Kazakh uranium assets.
铀壹公司的管理人员私下表示，他们担心可能会失去这个矿业合资项目。维基解密(WikiLeaks)公开的美国外交电报也反映出相关担心，即贾基舍夫被捕是俄罗斯为了控制哈萨克斯坦铀矿而进行的高压攻势的一部分。
At the time, Russia was already eying a stake in Uranium One, Rosatom company documents show. Rosatom officials say they were seeking to acquire mines around the world because Russia lacks sufficient domestic reserves to meet its own industry needs.
俄罗斯国家原子能公司的文件显示，当时，俄罗斯已经盯上了铀壹公司的股份。俄罗斯国家原子能公司的管理人员表示，他们寻求收购世界各地的铀矿，因为俄罗斯国内的储备无法满足其工业需要。
It was against this backdrop that the Vancouver-based Uranium One pressed the U.S. Embassy in Kazakhstan, as well as Canadian diplomats, to take up its cause with Kazakh officials, according to the U.S. cables.
美国的外交电报显示，当时的背景是，总部位于温哥华的铀壹公司向美国驻哈萨克斯坦大使馆及加拿大外交官施压，要求他们向哈萨克斯坦官员表明意图。
“We want more than a statement to the press,” Paul Clarke, a Uranium One executive vice president, told the embassy's energy officer June 10, the officer reported in a cable. “That is simply chitchat.”
使馆的能源官员在外交电报中报告称，“我们想要的不只是一份向新闻界发表的声明。”铀壹公司执行副总裁保罗·克拉克(told the embassy's)在6月10日告诉他。“那只是空谈。”
What the company needed, Clarke said, was official written confirmation that the licenses were still valid.
克拉克表示，公司需要的是一份官方提供的书面确认文件，确认许可证仍旧有效。
The U.S. Embassy ultimately reported to the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton. Although the Clarke cable was copied to her, it was given wide circulation, and it is unclear if she would have read it; the Clinton campaign did not address questions about the cable.
美国大使馆最终向国务卿希拉里·克林顿报告了此事。虽然上述电报的复本被转交给希拉里·克林顿，而且被广泛传播，目前尚不清数她是否读过相关内容；希拉里·克林顿的竞选团队没有就电报相关问题做出回答。
What is clear is that the embassy acted, with the cables showing that the unnamed energy officer met with Kazakh officials to discuss the issue on June 10 and 11.
目前清楚的是，大使馆采取了行动，电报显示，这名未提及姓名的能源官员与哈萨克斯坦官员在6月10日、11日举行了会面，讨论该问题。
Three days later, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rosatom completed a deal for 17 percent of Uranium One. And within a year, the Russian government would substantially up the ante, with a generous offer to shareholders that would give it a 51 percent controlling stake. But first, Uranium One had to get the U.S. government to sign off on the deal.
3天之后，俄罗斯国家原子能公司的一家全资子公司完成交易，获得了铀壹公司17%的股份。接下来1年之内，俄罗斯政府会大量加注，慷慨出价收购股东持有的股份，最终获得51%的控股权。
The Power to Say No
说不的权力
When a company controlled by the Chinese government sought a 51 percent stake in a tiny Nevada gold mining operation in 2009, it set off a secretive review process in Washington, where officials raised concerns primarily about the mine's proximity to a military installation but also about the potential for minerals at the site, including uranium, to come under Chinese control. The officials killed the deal.
2009年，中国政府控制的一家公司寻求获取内华达州一小型金矿采矿公司51%的股份，引发了华盛顿方面的秘密审查，官员们主要的担心在于这个金矿靠近一军事设施，而且该矿蕴含包括铀在内的矿物，可能会被中国人控制。官员们终止了这笔交易。
Such is the power of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The committee comprises some of the most powerful members of the Cabinet, including the attorney general, the secretaries of the Treasury, Defense, Homeland Security, Commerce and Energy, and the secretary of state. They are charged with reviewing any deal that could result in foreign control of a U.S. business or asset deemed important to national security.
这就是美国外国投资委员会(Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)的权力。委员会由一些最强大的内阁成员组成，其中包括司法、财政、国防、国土安全、贸易和能源部部长，以及国务卿。任何被认为对国家安全十分重要的美国企业或资产，要进行可能形成外国控制的交易，这个委员会都有权进行审查。
When ARMZ, an arm of Rosatom, took its first 17 percent stake in Uranium One in 2009, the two parties signed an agreement, found in securities filings, to seek the foreign investment committee's review. But it was the 2010 deal, giving the Russians a controlling 51 percent stake, that set off alarm bells.
通过证券备案文件可以看到，2009年俄罗斯国家原子能公司的分支机构ARMZ获得它在铀壹公司的最初17%的股份时，双方就寻求外国投资委员会的核准签署了一项协议。但是，引起人们警觉的是2010年给俄罗斯提供了51%的控制权股份的协议。
Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., where Uranium One's largest U.S. operation was, wrote to President Barack Obama, saying the deal “would give the Russian government control over a sizable portion of America's uranium production capacity.”
铀壹公司在美国的运营，以怀俄明州规模最大，该州共和党参议员约翰·巴拉索(John Barrasso)写信给美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)称，这笔交易“会让俄罗斯政府控制相当一部分美国的铀生产能力。”
“Equally alarming,” Barrasso added, “this sale gives ARMZ a significant stake in uranium mines in Kazakhstan.”
“同样令人担忧的是，”巴拉索补充道，“此次销售让ARMZ对哈萨克斯坦的铀矿拥有极大控制权。”
The ultimate authority to approve or reject the Russian acquisition rested with the Cabinet officials on the foreign investment committee, including Hillary Clinton — whose husband was collecting millions of dollars in donations from people associated with Uranium One.
批准或拒绝俄罗斯的收购的最终权力在外国投资委员会的内阁官员手中，其中包括希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)——她的丈夫从铀壹公司相关人士处获取了巨额捐款。
Undisclosed Donations
秘密捐款
Before Clinton could assume her post as secretary of state, the White House demanded that she sign a memorandum of understanding placing limits on her husband's foundation's activities. To avoid the perception of conflicts of interest, beyond the ban on foreign government donations, the foundation was required to publicly disclose all contributors.
在克林顿担任国务卿之前，白宫要求她签署一份谅解备忘录，对她丈夫的基金会的活动进行限制。为了避免潜在的利益冲突，除了禁止外国政府捐赠，基金会还被要求公开所有捐助者。
To judge from those disclosures — which list the contributions in ranges rather than precise amounts — the only Uranium One official to give to the Clinton Foundation was Telfer, the chairman, and the amount was relatively small: no more than $250,000, and that was in 2007, before talk of a Rosatom deal began percolating.
从披露的这些信息判断——捐款是按范围而非精确数额罗列的——唯一曾向克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)捐款的铀壹公司官员是主席特尔弗，而且数额相对较小：不超过25万美元，这还是在2007年，当时就俄罗斯国家原子能公司的交易进行的谈判还没有展开。
But a review of tax records in Canada, where Telfer has a family charity called the Fernwood Foundation, shows that he donated millions of dollars more, during and after the critical time when the foreign investment committee was reviewing his deal with the Russians.
但是，通过核查加拿大纳税记录得知，在外国投资委员会对他与俄罗斯的交易进行审核的关键时期期间和之后，特尔弗又捐赠了数百万美元。特尔弗在加拿大有一家名为芬伍德基金会(Fernwood Foundation)的家族慈善机构。
His donations through the Fernwood Foundation included $1 million reported in 2009, the year his company appealed to the U.S. Embassy to help it keep its mines in Kazakhstan; $250,000 in 2010, the year the Russians sought majority control; as well as $600,000 in 2011; and $500,000 in 2012. Telfer said that his donations had nothing to do with his business dealings and that he had never discussed Uranium One with Bill or Hillary Clinton. He said he had given the money because he wanted to support Giustra's charitable endeavors with Bill Clinton.
他通过芬伍德基金会进行的捐款包括2009年上报的100万美元，当年他的公司曾向美国大使馆提出申请，要求大使馆帮忙留住在哈萨克斯坦的矿产；2010年捐款25万美元，当年俄罗斯获得多数股权；2011年60万美元；以及2012年的50万美元。特尔弗说，他的捐款与他的业务交易没有任何关系，而且他也从未与比尔或希拉里·克林顿讨论过铀壹公司。他说他之所以捐这些钱，是因为他想支持朱斯特拉与比尔·克林顿的慈善事业。
The Clinton campaign left it to the foundation to reply to questions about the Fernwood donations; the foundation did not provide a response.
克林顿竞选团队称芬伍德基金会捐款的问题应由基金会来回答；基金会没有回应。
Telfer's undisclosed donations came in addition to between $1.3 million and $5.6 million in contributions, which were reported, from a constellation of people with ties to Uranium One or UrAsia, the company that originally acquired Uranium One's most valuable asset: the Kazakhstan mines.
除了特尔弗的这些秘密捐款，还有130万到560万美元已上报捐款，来自与铀壹公司或UrAsia有关的一群人。UrAsia最初获得了铀壹公司最有价值的资产：哈萨克斯坦的铀矿。
Amid this influx of Uranium One-connected money, Bill Clinton was invited to speak in Moscow in June 2010, the same month Rosatom struck its deal for a majority stake in Uranium One.
在与铀壹公司有关的资金涌入期间，比尔·克林顿曾在2010年6月受邀在莫斯科发表讲话。同一个月，俄罗斯国家原子能公司敲定了在铀壹公司持多数股权的协议。
The $500,000 fee — among Clinton's highest — was paid by Renaissance Capital, a Russian investment bank with ties to the Kremlin.
50万美元的费用——克林顿迄今得到的最高额演讲费之一——是与克里姆林宫有关的俄罗斯投资银行复兴资本(Renaissance Capital)支付的。
Diplomatic Considerations
外交方面的考虑
If doing business with Rosatom was good for those involved with the Uranium One deal, engaging with Russia was also a priority of the incoming Obama administration, which was hoping for a new era of cooperation.
如果说与俄罗斯国家原子能公司进行生意往来，对那些参与铀壹公司交易的人有好处，那么与俄罗斯交好也是即将上台的奥巴马政府的首要任务。奥巴马政府希望能迎来一个合作的新时代。
It started out well. The two countries made progress on nuclear proliferation issues, and expanded use of Russian territory to resupply U.S. forces in Afghanistan. Keeping Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon was among the United States' top priorities, and in June 2010 Russia signed off on a U.N. resolution imposing tough new sanctions on that country.
刚开始，事情进展顺利。两国在核扩散问题上取得了进展，并扩展了利用俄罗斯领土为驻阿富汗美军提供补给的合作。阻止伊朗获得核武器是美国的头等大事。2010年6月，俄罗斯签署了一项联合国决议，对伊朗实施了新的严厉制裁。