MOSCOW — The Russian Parliament on Wednesday took the first major step to authorize the Kremlin to seize foreign assets and use them to compensate individuals and businesses being hurt by Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.
莫斯科——西方就乌克兰危机对俄罗斯实施的制裁，令该国一些人士和企业蒙受损失；本周三，在授权克里姆林宫收缴国外资产，用它们来弥补这些损失的过程中，俄罗斯议会迈出了重要的第一步。
Legislation that passed its first round stands to arm the government of President Vladimir V. Putin with a remarkable weapon of retribution, effectively allowing the government to compensate the same insider businessmen and other elite who Western leaders had hoped would persuade the Russian leader to reverse course in Ukraine.
西方国家领导人曾希望，通过制裁与普京关系密切的商人和其他精英人士，让他们说服俄罗斯领导人在乌克兰问题上转变做法，但根据这项立法，俄罗斯政府实际上可以补偿这些人的损失。该立法现已在第一轮投票中获得通过，它可以为普京政府提供一个重磅武器，来报复西方的制裁行动。
Although its full parameters were still unclear and it faces several hurdles, the legislation has the potential to ensnare large multinational corporations that have invested heavily in Russia. Global companies like McDonald’s, Pepsi and ExxonMobil hold tens of billions of dollars of assets in the energy-rich country.
尽管这项立法的各种细节仍不清楚，而且它面前还矗立着几重障碍，但一些已经在俄罗斯投入巨资的大型跨国公司，可能会陷入它的罗网。像麦当劳(McDonald’s)、百事可乐(Pepsi)和埃克森美孚(ExxonMobil)这样的跨国公司，在能源丰富的俄罗斯持有数以十亿美元计的资产。
The sanctions imposed by the United States, the European Union and others in varying phases since March had been intended to bring Russia to heel. But Mr. Putin pushed back. In August, Russia announced that it would ban many imports of food and agricultural products from Europe and the United States.
自今年3月以来，美国、欧盟等分阶段对俄罗斯实施了制裁，打算迫其就范。但是普京针锋相对。今年8月，俄罗斯宣布将禁止从欧洲和美国进口多种食品和农产品。
Russian news media have taken to calling the latest proposal the Rotenberg Law, after Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo-sparring partner of Mr. Putin, turned wealthy industrialist. Last month, the Italian authorities seized a reported $40 million in real estate, connected in part to Mr. Rotenberg, who has been sanctioned.
俄罗斯新闻媒体把这项最新的立法建议称为“罗滕贝格法”(Rotenberg Law)，名字取自阿尔卡季·罗滕贝格(Arkady Rotenberg)，此人以前是普京的柔道陪练伙伴，后成为富有的实业家，也是西方制裁的对象之一。上个月，意大利当局收缴了一处和他有部分关联的房地产，据称价值为4000万美元（约合人民币2.5亿元）。
After that, United Russia, a political party loyal to Mr. Putin, reintroduced the bill. It had first been rejected by the government last spring.
此后，忠于普京的统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)重新提出了这项法案。最初它曾在今年春天遭到政府的拒绝。
The legislation must be approved two more times by the lower chamber of Parliament, or Duma, and the Russian senate, then signed by the president to become law. The initial passage could well be saber-rattling but is still an alarming sign that Russia will not take the sanctions lightly. Even early discussions of the rule in Parliament precipitated a stock sell-off late last month, given the stakes for international corporations.
该立法必须再获得俄罗斯议会下院，或称杜马，以及俄罗斯议会上院(Russian Senate)的两轮批准，然后经总统签署，才能成为法律。它在最初一轮获得通过很可能是一种威胁，但这仍然是一个令人担忧的迹象，表明俄罗斯不会对制裁掉以轻心。上月底，就连议会对这项规则进行的早期讨论，也引发了一波股票抛售，因为它与跨国公司利益攸关。
In the past, the Russian government has made no bones about taking apart private assets, dismantling the once-largest domestic oil company, Yukos, and jailing its former owner, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, for a decade. Last month, a court ordered another Russian billionaire, Vladimir P. Yevtushenkov, placed under house arrest.
在过去，俄罗斯政府粗暴处置私有财产，毫无顾忌，曾分拆国内最大的石油公司尤科斯(Yukos)，并将该公司之前的所有者米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B.Khodorkovsky)关押了十年。上个月，法庭下令软禁了另一位俄罗斯亿万富翁弗拉基米尔·P·叶夫图申科夫(Vladimir P. Yevtushenkov)。
American companies with large investments in Russia have been apprehensive about possible retribution or losing business to Asian competitors, Alexis Rodzianko, the director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia, said in an interview. Russia, he said, now has a “hierarchy of procurement” putting Asian businesses first.
俄罗斯美国商会会长阿莱克谢·罗德津科(Alexis Rodzianko)在接受采访时说，一些美国公司在俄罗斯拥有大量投资，它们担心可能会遭到报复，或者被亚洲的竞争对手抢走生意。他说，俄罗斯现在有一个“采购优先顺序”，把亚洲企业排在了首位。
The only seeming swipe has been at the American corporate icon McDonald’s. Russian authorities closed several of its restaurants in Moscow in August, citing health concerns. But the timing prompted worries that it was payback for the sanctions.
目前似乎只出现过一次打击，对象是标志性的美国企业麦当劳。今年8月，俄罗斯当局以健康问题为由，关闭了麦当劳在莫斯科数家餐厅。但此事发生的时机引人担心，一些人觉得这是俄罗斯在报复西方对它的制裁。
So far, those actions appear largely symbolic, with most McDonald’s restaurants remaining open. Still, the symbolism was ominous. The opening of the first McDonald’s restaurant in 1990 on Pushkin Square marked the dawning of a new era of post-Soviet business opportunities for Western corporations.
到目前为止，这些措施似乎主要是象征性的，大多数麦当劳餐厅还在继续营业。尽管如此，它的象征意义仍然凶多吉少。1990年，第一家麦当劳餐厅在普希金广场开业，标志着一个新时代的到来：西方公司迎来了后苏联时代的各种商机。
Others followed. Ford operates an assembly plant for Focus compact cars outside St. Petersburg. A Russian forge stamps nearly half the titanium pieces as measured by weight used in the airframe of the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner airliner. Alcoa operates an aluminum smelter.
其他公司跟风而至。福特(Ford)在圣彼得堡外开了一家汽车装配厂，组装福克斯(Focus)紧凑型轿车。波音(Boeing)787梦想客机(Dreamliner)机身采用的钛部件，以重量计，有将近一半产自俄罗斯的一家铸造厂。美国铝业(Alcoa)也在俄罗斯开了一家冶炼厂。
PepsiCo first came to the former Soviet Union after offering a taste sample to the general secretary at the time, Nikita S. Khrushchev, in 1959. The company has invested heavily in Russia during the oil boom and now owns one of the country’s largest dairies.
1959年，百事可乐公司在为当时的苏共总书记尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)送去了一份试尝样品后，率先进入了前苏联。石油繁荣时期，该公司在俄罗斯投入巨资，现已拥有了俄罗斯最大的乳品厂之一。
Even without such rules, multinational companies are facing headwinds, as the country’s economy flirts with recession. Ford has said weakening Russian demand for cars, amid all the uncertainty here, is hurting its global earnings.
即使没有这些规定，跨国公司在俄罗斯也面临波折，因为该国的经济处于衰退边缘。福特表示，俄罗斯人对汽车的需求正在减少，而且那里还存在各种不确定性，令该公司的全球收入受损。
Yet other multinationals have inadvertently benefited from Russia’s attempts to punish Western business. The ban on European dairy imports, for example, became an unexpected boon for Pepsi’s local milk and yogurt business.
不过，另外一些跨国公司，却从俄罗斯惩罚西方企业的努力中意外受益。例如，对于百事可乐在俄罗斯的牛奶和酸奶业务而言，欧洲乳制品进口禁令就成为了一个出乎意料的利好。
The legislation, though, is amplifying corporate concerns. Russia’s minister of economy, Aleksei Ulyukayev, said just last week that “there is no better way to create capital outflow than passing or even discussing such legislation.”
但是，这项立法加剧了企业的担忧。就在上周，俄罗斯经济部长阿列克谢·乌柳卡耶夫(Alexei Ulyukayev)表示，“通过此类立法，甚至只是讨论它，就能引发资本大量流出了。”
Still, the law passed with 233 votes in favor and 202 against. It would allow Russian citizens to who suffer from an “unlawful court act” of a foreign government to appeal for compensation in Russia, ultimately by seizing foreign assets here, even those covered by immunity such as diplomatic real estate.
尽管如此，这项法律还是以233票赞成，202票反对的结果在第一轮获得通过。它规定，俄罗斯公民，如果因外国政府“非法的法庭令”蒙受损失，可以在俄罗斯申请获得赔偿，这些赔偿最终来自政府收缴的外国资产，即便是那些享受豁免权的资产，比如外交用途的房地产，也可能遭受收缴。
The Western sanctions were intended to dissuade Mr. Putin from invading Ukraine. The United States Treasury Department has called some of the targets the “inner circle” of Mr. Putin, or longtime acquaintances who would presumably have his ear.
西方制裁俄罗斯的目的，是打消普京入侵乌克兰的念头。美国财政部(Treasury Department)称，一些制裁目标属于普京“核心圈子”，是他的老相识，他们的意见可能对普京有影响。