MOSCOW — They carried carnations and roses in even-numbered bouquets, which is how Russians mourn. They held placards praising a fallen hero, and waved the Russian tricolor flag.
莫斯科——他们按照俄罗斯表示哀悼的方式，手持有偶数朵康乃馨和玫瑰的花束。他们举着标语牌赞颂一位逝去的英雄，挥舞着俄罗斯的三色旗。
Tens of thousands of people from a wide range of political parties and movements turned out in central Moscow on Sunday to honor the opposition leader Boris Y. Nemtsov, who was shot dead on Friday near Red Square. Many of the mourners walked right past the Kremlin walls, holding signs saying “I am not afraid.”
周日，来自各政党和政治运动的数万人出现在莫斯科市中心，悼念周五在红场附近遭枪击身亡的反对派领袖鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)。许多悼念者径直走过克里姆林宫的围墙，举着“我不害怕”的标语。
The crowd was roughly the size of some of the larger rallies held in the Russian capital three years ago during the “white ribbon” protests, a movement that Mr. Nemtsov helped organize.
人群的规模，与三年前涅姆佐夫参与组织的“白丝带”抗议运动期间，在俄罗斯首都举行的一些规模较大的集会的规模大致相当。
Since Vladimir V. Putin returned the presidency in 2012, though, the Russian opposition has fractured and faded, and the country has become absorbed in the conflict in Ukraine that broke out last year.
但在弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)于2012年再次担任总统之后，俄罗斯反对派就四分五裂，实力渐弱，整个国家都专注于去年爆发的乌克兰冲突。
Some in the crowd on Sunday said they hoped the turnout for the vigil for Mr. Nemtsov would signal a revival of opposition street politics in Russia. But it was far from clear that that would happen, given the many legal obstacles to organizing in Russia and the splintering and repression of the opposition leadership.
周日当天的人群中，有一些人表示，为涅姆佐夫守夜的人数，标志着俄罗斯反对派街头政治的复苏。但考虑到在俄罗斯组织活动面临的诸多法律障碍，以及反对派领导层四分五裂的状态和遭受的打压，尚不清楚街头政治的复苏会不会出现。
The crowd shuffled solemnly over the muddy pavement in Moscow’s government district, from Slavic Square on the banks of the Moskva River, past the red-brick walls of the Kremlin to the spot on a bridge where Mr. Nemtsov, a former first deputy prime minister, was killed. One placard read, “Boris, we will continue your work.”
人群肃穆地缓步行走在莫斯科政府机关所在区域泥泞的道路上，从莫斯科河沿岸的斯拉夫广场出发，经过克里姆林宫的红砖墙，来到前第一副总理涅姆佐夫在一座桥上遇害的位置。一块标语牌上写着，“鲍里斯，我们将继续你的事业。”
Russian news media reported that more than 56,000 marchers passed through metal detectors set up at the start of the route, a larger turnout than expected.
俄罗斯新闻媒体报道称，有超过5.6万游行者经过了设在游行路线起点的金属探测器，参与人数超过预期。
The vigil took the place of a protest rally that Mr. Nemtsov had been organizing for Sunday called the March of Spring. It was intended to be a focus for public discontent over stagnant wages and inflation, as well as Russia’s deepening entanglement in Ukraine.
守夜活动取代了涅姆佐夫此前一直在组织的抗议集会“春天游行”(March of Spring)，该集会原定于周日举行。这场集会的意图是集中表达民众对工资增长停滞、通货膨胀，以及俄罗斯在乌克兰越陷越深的不满。
Several tiny, mostly obscure Russian political parties and groups were involved in setting up the rally, including the December Fifth Party, the Progress Party and Mr. Nemtsov’s group, the Republican Party of Russia-People’s Freedom Party.
俄罗斯几个基本上鲜为人知的小政党和团体也参与了该集会的组织，其中包括12月5日党(December Fifth Party)、进步党(Progress Party)和涅姆佐夫领导的俄罗斯共和党-人民自由党(Republican Party of Russia–People’s Freedom Party)。
It was not clear whether that rally would have drawn much of a crowd. Such events in Moscow these days often bring out only the organizers and a few elderly people who show up at any and every protest.
并不清楚那场集会如果按原计划进行，能不能吸引到这么多人。如今，莫斯科的这类活动往往只能吸引组织者，以及一些所有抗议都会参加的老年人到场。
And the usual infighting had broken out among the organizers, in this case over the venue. When city officials refused at first to grant a parade permit for the center of Moscow, Mr. Nemtsov took the setback in stride and prepared to hold the rally in the outlying Mariyno district. But the Yabloko Party said it would boycott an event there, and held out instead for a central site.
组织者当中也像往常一样出现了内讧，这次的分歧在于集会地点。市政府官员最初拒绝发放在莫斯科市中心游行的许可，涅姆佐夫面对这一挫折表现从容，准备在远离市中心的马力伊诺区举行集会。但俄罗斯统一民主党(Yabloko Party)表示将抵制在那里举行的活动，并坚持要求在市中心的某个地点举行。
On Saturday, the city relented and granted the parade permit, so that marchers could walk past the place where Mr. Nemtsov was killed. With the march transformed into a vigil, the organizers put aside their squabbling, a possible sign that the shooting could galvanize the Russian opposition to take more effective action.
周六，莫斯科市政府态度有所缓和，发放了游行许可，于是游行者才得以经过涅姆佐夫的遇害地。随着游行转变成守夜活动，组织者把争吵放到了一边。这个迹象或许表明，枪击事件可能会激励俄罗斯反对派采取更有效的行动。
“God help us come together now,” said Yuri A. Medovar, a member of the Yabloko Party, who attended the march as his party’s banners flew over the crowd. “At least Boris’s murder can unite us, and let us realize that the real enemy is in the Kremlin.”
“上帝帮助我们团结到了一起，”参加游行的统一民主党成员尤里·A·梅多瓦尔(Yuri A. Medovar)说。“至少鲍里斯的遇害能使我们团结起来，让我们意识到真正的敌人在克里姆林宫里。”他所在政党的旗帜在人群上方飘扬。
In Washington, Secretary of State John Kerry was asked on Sunday about Mr. Nemtsov during a television appearance. “We are enormously saddened to hear of his murder,” he said on the ABC program “This Week.”
在华盛顿，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周日在电视上出镜时，被问及涅姆佐夫遇害一事。“得知他遇害，我们极为悲痛，”他在ABC的节目《本周》(This Week)上说。
“We hope the authorities will join the world in producing the credible, transparent investigation necessary to find out who did — who was behind this and who did it,” Mr. Kerry said.
“我们希望俄罗斯当局和全世界一道，开展可信、透明的调查，要想找出凶手，要找出幕后主使和行凶者，这样的调查是必要的，”克里说。
As the crowd in Moscow solemnly trudged along, some marchers said they had not planned to attend the March of Spring rally, but wanted to protest the killing of Mr. Nemtsov.
在莫斯科，人群庄严前行，步履沉重。一些游行者称本来并没打算参加“春天”集会，但现在希望对涅姆佐夫遇害一事表示抗议。
“They shot somebody in the back, and this is a crime and shouldn’t happen in Russia,” said Olga Dobrovalskaya, a lawyer. “This really touched people. It’s serious.”
“他们暗中朝人开枪，这是犯罪行为，不应发生在俄罗斯，”身为律师的奥尔加·多布罗瓦尔斯卡娅(Olga Dobrovalskaya)说。“这真的令人悲痛，问题很严重。”
Another marcher, Marina Nevskaya, said: “It’s unlikely I would have come to the demonstration in Maryino. But all decent people had to come here. What happened was a personal spit in my face. I don’t want to hide my face from my children.”
另一名游行者玛丽娜·涅夫斯卡娅(Marina Nevskaya)说：“我不大可能参加在马力伊诺举行的示威。但所有正派人都必须来这里。发生的事情像是有人朝我脸上吐了一口唾沫，我不想向我的孩子掩藏这张脸。”
The only known witness to the killing is Mr. Nemtsov’s girlfriend, Anna Duritskaya, a Ukrainian model. Her lawyer said on Sunday that the Russian authorities were not allowing Ms. Duritskaya to return home to Ukraine, though she was not formally being detained.
涅姆佐夫遇害一案唯一已知的目击者是他的女朋友，乌克兰模特安娜·杜里茨卡娅(Anna Duritskaya)。她的律师周日表示，俄罗斯当局不允许杜里茨卡娅返回乌克兰的家，不过她并未被正式羁押。
The lawyer, Vadim Prokhorov, told the RIA news agency that Ms. Duritskaya had rejected police protection but was nonetheless being kept in Moscow under guard. Ilya Yashin, a friend of Mr. Nemtsov, told Ukrainian television that Ms. Duritskaya was being held in an apartment in the capital.
名为瓦迪姆·普罗霍罗夫(Vadim Prokhorov)的这位律师对俄罗斯新闻社(RIA)表示，杜里茨卡娅拒绝了警方的保护，但她在莫斯科依然有人看守。涅姆佐夫的朋友伊利亚·亚申(Ilya Yashin)对乌克兰电视台表示，杜里茨卡娅被迫待在俄罗斯首都的一处公寓里。
“We think her rights are being violated,” Mr. Prokhorov said. “She had categorically rejected the program for witness protection, and against her will, she cannot be guarded.”
“我们认为她的权利受到了侵犯，”普罗霍罗夫说。“她已明确拒绝了证人保护计划，就不应派人守着，这有违她的意愿。”