SOCHI, Russia — President Vladimir V. Putin and any other Russian who was asked made it plain that the Sochi Games’ success hinged on the Russian men’s hockey team.
俄罗斯索契——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和采访所及的所有俄罗斯人都已坦言，俄罗斯代表团在索契冬奥会的成功，取决于俄罗斯男子冰球队的表现。
Sure, Russia has a formidable delegation, winning medals in many events, from biathlon to bobsled. But it was the hockey team, representing the national sport, that would offer the world the most meaningful symbol of the country’s might.
诚然，俄罗斯派出了一个令人生畏的代表团，赢得了从冬季两项到雪橇等多项赛事的奖牌。然而，冰球队才是俄罗斯国民运动的代表，才能成为向全世界展示该国实力的最具意义的符号。
“We all, and I personally, wish you all luck,” Mr. Putin was quoted as saying in a visit to the Canadian Olympic team’s headquarters here last week. “Of course, maybe not at all of the hockey matches.”
据报道，上周访问加拿大奥运代表团在索契的驻地时，普京曾经说，“我们所有人，还有我个人，都祝你们好运。当然，可能不包括在冰球比赛上。”
No one will ever know for sure the pressure the team faced in its role as Russia’s great hope, only the humiliating ending it encountered.
永远也没有人能确定，俄罗斯冰球队因祖国的重望而面临着多大的压力，人们知道的只是它遭遇的耻辱结局。
Finland defeated Russia, 3-1, on Wednesday in front of a homeland audience that had all but demanded that its men’s hockey team deliver Russia’s first Olympic gold medal in its national sport since 1992, when it competed along with other former Soviet republics as the Unified Team.
周三，芬兰队在主场观众面前3：1击败俄罗斯队，这些观众殷切期望本国的男子冰球队摘取1992年以来的首块奥运金牌，只差提出明白的要求了。在1992年的比赛中，俄罗斯和其他的前苏联加盟共和国组成了联合队伍。
The Russians won three of their five games but were eliminated before the medal round had even begun. For them, the Sochi Games might as well be over.
俄罗斯队在五场比赛中赢了三场，不过，金牌争夺战甚至还没开始，他们就已经被淘汰出局。对他们来说，索契冬奥会可能也就此结束了。
“If we had just won the gold medal in hockey, we could have forgotten about all the other medals — everything else,” said Salavat Fokin, 21, a law student from Moscow working as a volunteer at the Games.
“如果能赢得冰球比赛的金牌，我们会把其他所有的奖牌都抛到脑后。”21岁的萨拉瓦特·福金(Salavat Fokin)说。他是来自莫斯科的法律专业学生，也是本次冬奥会的志愿者。
No matter that Russia is near the top of the medal standings, with 22, or that its figure skaters are still in pursuit of medals. For an outsize portion of the host country’s populace, the only things left at the Sochi Games are blame and anguish.
已有22块奖牌的俄罗斯离奖牌榜第一的位置很近，它的花样滑冰运动员也依然在角逐奖牌，然而这些都无足轻重。对主办国的绝大部分国民而言，索契冬奥会只剩下指责和痛苦而已。
“I have lost any desire to stay here any longer,” said Dmitry Pechenik, 18, an Olympic volunteer from Moscow. “There is no sense to stay. As for me, the Olympic flame can be put down as well.”
来自莫斯科的奥运志愿者、18岁的德米特里·佩切尼克(Dmitry Pechenik)说，“我已经完全丧失了在这里待下去的兴趣。待在这里没有意义。对我来说，奥运会的圣火都可以灭掉了。”
A team of immense talent was wobbly when it arrived on the sport’s biggest international stage, then quickly fell flat on its face. Russia, once the hockey wonderland, has only a silver and a bronze since the National Hockey League started sending players to the Olympics in 1998.
登上冰球运动最大的国际舞台之后，这支天赋过人的球队表现失常，之后就迅速一败涂地。自美国职业冰球联盟(National Hockey League)从1998年开始向奥运会派出选手以来，曾是冰球圣地的俄罗斯只拿过一块银牌和一块铜牌。
The disappointment reverberated in the upper ranks of the Russian government. Mr. Putin, who attended Russia’s games over the weekend — a loss to the United States on Saturday and a victory over Slovakia on Sunday — did not immediately issue any reaction. Aleksei K. Pushkov, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Russian Parliament, voiced disappointment but not shock. “We have a number of good players,” Mr. Pushkov said. “But we don’t have a team.”
对比赛的失望在俄罗斯政府高官当中萦回不去。在周末现场观看了俄罗斯队比赛的普京没有立即做出反应。在周末的比赛中，俄罗斯队先是在周六输给了美国队，之后在周日拿下了斯洛伐克队。俄罗斯议会下院(Russian Parliament)外事委员会(Foreign Affairs Committee)主席阿列克谢·普什科夫(Aleksei Pushkov)表达了失望，但没有流露震惊的情绪。“我们有很多好选手，”普什科夫说。“但我们没有一支好球队。”
The Soviet Union won the Olympic gold in seven of nine appearances between 1956, when it made its ice hockey debut, and 1988, before the country broke up in 1991.
1991年解体之前，苏联在1956年至1988年间参加了九届奥运会，七次赢得奥运金牌。苏联于1956年首次参加冰球比赛。
The team’s coach, Zinetula Bilyaletdinov, bore the brunt of the harsh reaction after the game Wednesday, when he was challenged by the Russian news media.
周三的比赛结束后，俄罗斯冰球队教练济内图拉·比利亚列特季诺夫(Zinetula Bilyaletdinov)遭到俄罗斯新闻媒体的质问，首当其冲地面对了人们的强烈反应。
In the news conference featuring both head coaches, the first eight questions were directed at Mr. Bilyaletdinov, 58, a soft-spoken man whose voice rose above a murmur only once, when a reporter said in Russian: “Can you address the overall result of the Russian team in the Olympics? It is a catastrophe.”
在两队主教练一同参加的新闻发布会上，前八个问题都提给了58岁的比利亚列特季诺夫。这位说话温和的教练只有一次提高了嗓门，因为一名记者用俄语问道：“你能就俄罗斯队在本届奥运会的总体表现发表一下意见吗？这是一场大灾难。”
Mr. Bilyaletdinov blanched. “Let’s not play word games,” he said. “I said it was unsuccessful. We can call it whatever.”
比利亚列特季诺夫脸色苍白。“不要玩文字游戏，”他说。“我已经说过，球队成绩不理想。怎么说都行。”
Russia was holding its collective breath with this team and was prepared to keep holding it through the gold medal game on Sunday, the grand finale before the closing ceremony.
俄罗斯举国上下都为冰球队屏住了呼吸，本来还准备把这种状态保持到周日的决赛——闭幕式之前的重头戏。
The joy that Canada experienced four years ago — triumph for its hockey team as a prelude to the farewell ceremony in Vancouver — seemed attainable, if not assured. Instead, the players will scatter as if seized by an ill wind, returning to North America or their Russian league teams while the Games draw to their anticlimactic close for the host country.
四年前，加拿大冰球队获得胜利，揭开了温哥华冬奥会闭幕式的序幕。加拿大人当时的喜悦，俄罗斯似乎也能企及，即便不是十拿九稳。然而事与愿违，在冬奥会走向一个对主办国来说大失所望的结尾之时，俄罗斯队的队员将会像遭遇恶风一样各自走散，回到北美或俄罗斯的联盟队伍。
“It is hard to say something now — it’s just emptiness,” said Sergei Bobrovsky, a goaltender who replaced the starter, Semyon Varlamov, in the second period after Finland took a 3-1 lead.
门将谢尔盖·博布罗夫斯基(Sergei Bobrovsky)表示，“现在很难说什么——只是感到空虚。”芬兰以3比1领先后，博布罗夫斯基在第二节换下了先发门将谢苗·瓦尔拉莫夫(Semyon Varlamov)。
The Russians were like a mosaic in which all the beautiful individual pieces, when put together, clash instead of connect. The roster featured 16 players from the N.H.L., and 9 from the Kontinental Hockey League, a league based in Russia.
俄罗斯队就像是一块马赛克，其中每一块都很漂亮，拼到一起却显得不协调。队伍中有16名队员来自国家冰球联盟，9名队员来自俄罗斯的大陆冰球联盟(Kontinental Hockey League)。
In the spotlight’s glare, the Russians came unglued. They whiffed on shots. They made the extra pass when they should have shot and shot when they should have made the extra pass. Alex Ovechkin, who leads the N.H.L. in goals this season, with 40, scored early in the first period of Russia’s first game, then did not score again.
在聚光灯的照耀下，俄罗斯队心浮气躁，多次射门未中。应该射门的时候选择传球，应该传球时却选择射门。亚历山大·奥韦奇金(Alex Ovechkin)本赛季有40个进球，领跑国家冰球联盟。他在俄罗斯首场比赛的第一节中早早进球，之后就再也没有得分。
One did not have to be wearing Russian red to feel their stress. The Finnish forward Teemu Selanne, who scored the go-ahead goal in the first period and collected the first assist on the insurance goal in the second, said: “In a way, I feel sorry for Ovi and the rest of his teammates. They had a big dream to win the gold medal in their home tournament.”
用不着穿上俄罗斯队的红色球衣，大家就可以感受他们的压力。芬兰队前锋蒂姆·瑟拉尼(Teemu Selanne)在第一节中打入领先进球，并在第二节助攻一球，确保了球队的胜利。他说，“在某种程度上，我为奥韦(Ovi)和他的队友感到遗憾。他们本来有一个宏大的梦想，希望在家乡赢得金牌。”