YALTA, Crimea — Many A.T.M.s in this sun-dappled seaside resort city in Crimea, and across the region, have been empty in recent days, with little white “transaction denied” slips piling up around them. Banks that do have cash have been imposing severe restrictions on withdrawals.
克里米亚雅尔塔——最近几天，在这座阳光灿烂的克里米亚海滨城市，许多自动取款机都是空的，该地区的许多地方也是如此，“交易被拒绝”的小纸条在提款机旁边都积成了堆。还有现金的银行也对提款设定了严格的限制。
All flights, other than those to or from Moscow, remain canceled in what could become the norm if the dispute over Crimea’s political status drags on, a chilling prospect just a month before tourist season begins in a place beloved as a vacation playground since czarist times.
除了来往莫斯科的航班外，其他所有航班都已被取消；如果针对克里米亚政治地位的争议持续下去，这种情况或许会成为常态。这种想法令人脊背发凉，因为再过一个月，这个从沙皇时代以来就一直深受喜爱的度假圣地即将迎来旅游旺季。
Even with the West imposing sanctions to punish Russia’s invasion of Crimea, President Vladimir V. Putin faces a far steeper financial liability as he pushes to annex the peninsula, which lacks a self-sustaining economy and depends heavily on mainland Ukraine for vital services, including electricity and fresh water.
除了西方要对俄罗斯入侵克里米亚的行为实施制裁以外，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在努力吞并克里米亚半岛的过程中，也面临着非常大的财务压力。这个半岛缺乏自给自足的经济，而且在电力和淡水等关键服务方面还非常依赖乌克兰。
“Ukraine can quite easily cut off Crimea,” said Oleksandr Zholud, an economist with the International Center for Policy Studies in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital. “From an economic point of view it looks like a sinkhole.”
“对于乌克兰来说，舍弃克里米亚应该非常简单，”经济学家奥列克桑德尔·若卢德(Oleksandr Zholud)说。“从经济角度来看，它就像个污水沟。”若卢德供职于乌克兰首都基辅的国际政策研究中心(International Center for Policy Studies)。
In January, the Crimean Parliament adopted a 2014 budget of about $540 million, of which about $300 million was expected to come from the central government in Kiev. Crimean officials in recent days have said they now expect Moscow to fill the gap.
今年1月，克里米亚议会通过了总额大约5.4亿美元（约合33.4亿元人民币）的2014年预算案，其中大约有3亿美元将来自基辅的中央政府。最近几天，克里米亚官员说，现在他们希望莫斯科能来填补差额。
The potentially large price tag has arisen at a time when Russia itself is bracing for a severe economic slowdown, making annexation a far more complicated calculation for Mr. Putin and his advisers despite huge public support for reclaiming primacy over Crimea.
目前，俄罗斯自身也面临着严重的经济放缓，所以对普京及其助手而言，潜在的巨额开支也让要不要吞并克里米亚的抉择显得更加复杂，尽管收回克里米亚受到了公众的广泛支持。
Crimea and Russia have deep linguistic, historic and cultural ties, and the peninsula holds a nostalgic place in the minds of many Russians as a summer destination and popular retirement spot, where czars and Politburo chairmen kept vacation homes — including the last Soviet president, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who was briefly exiled to his dacha in the Crimean town of Foros, overlooking the Black Sea, during a coup attempt in 1991.
克里米亚与俄罗斯在语言、历史和文化方面有着深刻渊源，而且在许多俄罗斯人心中，克里米亚半岛还具有一定的怀旧意味，因为它既是避暑胜地，也是退休人员常来的地方。历代沙皇和政治局主席都在这里设有度假别墅，包括最后一任苏联总统米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)。在1991年的一次政变企图中，戈尔巴乔夫曾被暂时流放到了他位于克里米亚福罗斯的宅邸，那座宅邸面对着黑海。
Russia’s regional development minister, Igor N. Slyunayev, has offered a sobering assessment of the peninsula’s infrastructure needs.
俄罗斯的地区发展部长伊戈尔·N·斯柳尼亚耶夫(Igor N. Slyunayev)对克里米亚半岛的基建需求给出了令人警醒的评估。
“The peninsula is not self-sufficient when it comes to the entire group of vitally important resources — first of all, electricity and water,” Mr. Slyunayev said in a question-and-answer interview with the Russian newspaper Kommersant. “About 80 percent of water comes to its territory through the northern Crimean canal from the Dnieper River. Also, 80 percent of Crimea depends on imports of electricity.”
“所有重要资源，首先是电力和水源，克里米亚半岛都无法自给自足，”斯柳尼亚耶夫在回答俄罗斯《生意人报》(Kommersant)的采访时说。“其境内80%的水都是经由北克里米亚运河从第聂伯河流过来的。此外，克里米亚80%的电力也依赖外部输入。”
In a bleak bottom-line assessment that many residents here would dispute, Mr. Slyunayev said, “Today, our Crimea looks no better than Palestine.”
斯柳尼亚耶夫还说，“如今，我们的克里米亚看起来比巴勒斯坦好不到哪儿去。”这里的许多居民可能都会对这条冷酷的评价提出反驳。
The authorities here have waved aside concerns about public salaries, pensions and other costs, saying Moscow will cover them. But while Mr. Putin and Russian lawmakers have made reassuring statements, including some promises of more than $1 billion in immediate aid, there are no guarantees.
这里的地方政府对许多问题都毫不担心，比如公务人员工资、养老金和其他开支，说莫斯科将会支付全部费用。然而，尽管普京和俄罗斯议员做出了安抚的表态，而且还承诺会提供10多亿美元的直接援助，但是没有人能打包票。
Russia is facing its own fiscal challenges in the months and years ahead, as revenue growth from oil and natural gas is projected to slow precipitously and the Kremlin confronts big bills from salary increases for the police, the military and other public workers that preceded Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012.
在未来的数月乃至数年中，俄罗斯自己也会面临财政方面的挑战。这是因为，根据预期，石油和天然气的销售收入会急剧降低，而克里姆林宫(Kremlin)还需要承担巨额的开销，为警察、军队和其他公职人员涨工资。在普京于2012年重新担任总统之前，俄罗斯公职人员就开始加薪了。
The financial costs are just one reason that annexation is easier said than done.
吞并克里米亚说起来容易，做起来难。财政负担只是其中的一个原因。
Fully absorbing Crimea is a potentially herculean undertaking, which would require issuing new passports, changing the currency to rubles from Ukrainian hryvnias, and integrating completely distinct systems for property records, taxes, legal disputes and more.
完全吸纳克里米亚是一项极其艰难的工程，需要发放新的护照、把货币从乌克兰格里夫纳改为卢布，并且把完全不同的系统整合到一起，包括房产记录、税收制度、法律纠纷等等。
The process is also fraught with risks, including the possibility that the Ukrainian government could move to further isolate the geographically remote peninsula by shutting vital transportation lines.
这个过程充满风险，比如乌克兰政府可能采取行动，通过关闭交通要道，进一步孤立这个地处偏僻的半岛。
There is no overland transportation link between Russia and Crimea, and building a bridge across the shortest waterway, near the Crimean city of Kerch, would take years and cost an estimated $3 billion to $5 billion.
俄罗斯和克里米亚之间没有陆上的交通连接，在克里米亚城市刻赤(Kerch)附近最窄的水路上修建一座桥，就要花费多年时间，以及大约30亿美元到50亿美元的成本。
The costs for Russia — and for Crimeans — could also rise sharply, experts said, if political instability disrupts the peninsula’s major industries, particularly tourism and banking, which are already suffering.
专家称，如果政治动荡对克里米亚半岛的主要产业造成冲击，特别是已经受到影响的旅游业和银行业，那么俄罗斯和克里米亚都需要付出更高的代价。
A.T.M.'s have been empty as banks, most based in mainland Ukraine, face obstacles delivering currency, and grapple with mounting concerns about long-term business risks. If world leaders refuse to recognize Russia’s annexation of Crimea, flights could be restricted for years, as they are in northern Cyprus, which has direct air links only with Turkey.
银行也和提款机一样空空如也，在提供货币时遇到了很大困难，银行的总部大都在乌克兰本土。与此同时，人们对长期业务风险产生了越来越强的担忧，这也需要银行应对。如果世界各国的领导人拒绝承认俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并，来往此地的航班在未来多年里都会受到限制，就像北塞浦路斯只与土耳其有直接的航空联系一样。
At a minimum, Kiev’s strong leverage over utilities and other vital services stands to force the Kremlin into negotiations with the new Ukrainian leaders whom Mr. Putin has denounced as illegitimate and has so far refused to meet.
至少，基辅对公用事业和其他重要服务的强力影响，还可以迫使克里姆林宫与新的乌克兰领导人进行协商。普京一直指责乌克兰新任领导人不合法，直到目前仍拒绝与对方会面。