MOSCOW — Kremlin officials reacted furiously Monday to the European Union’s extension of sanctions on Russia through January, calling the measure self-defeating and accusing the West of crass anti-Russian bias by timing the decision to the nation’s commemoration of the Soviet victims of World War II.
莫斯科——周一，克里姆林宫官员愤怒地回应了欧盟延长对俄制裁至明年1月的决定，称之为适得其反，并且谴责西方怀有极端的反俄偏见，故意在俄罗斯纪念二战中的苏联遇难者之际做出了这个决定。
The Russian government said it would retaliate with an extension of countersanctions in response to the decision by European Union foreign ministers, at a meeting in Luxembourg, which had been widely expected after European ambassadors reached a tentative agreement last week in Brussels. Russia had lobbied against the renewal of sanctions, which were first imposed in July 2014 in response to the Kremlin’s invasion and annexation of Crimea.
俄罗斯政府表示，俄将对此采取报复行动，延长反制措施的时限。欧盟国家的外交官上周在布鲁塞尔达成了一项初步协议，外界由此普遍预期制裁会得以延长。在卢森堡召开的会议上，欧盟各国外长正式通过了这一决定。此前，俄罗斯一直在游说反对延长制裁。这些制裁措施于2014年7月开始实施，是欧盟对俄罗斯入侵并吞并克里米亚的回应。
Russia has tried not to flinch in the face of the sanctions, which have severely restricted the access of major Russian corporations to Western capital markets, among other punitive measures, but the country’s economy has suffered and continues to contract. Lower prices for oil delivered a concurrent blow, deepening the recession.
面对严重限制了俄罗斯大型企业进入西方资本市场的制裁等惩罚措施，俄罗斯一直试图不退缩。然而，俄罗斯经济因此受损，持续收缩。与此同时，油价下跌构成了又一记打击，加深了俄罗斯经济的衰退。
In perhaps the most emotional in a barrage of responses by the Russian government on Monday, Sergei Ivanov, the chief of staff to President Vladimir V. Putin, accused the European Union of deliberately announcing the extension on June 22, to coincide with the Day of Memory and Sorrow, when Russia honors the victims of World War II.
周一，俄罗斯政府对欧盟延长制裁的决定做出了一连串的回应。当中感情色彩最为强烈的或许算是总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的办公厅主任谢尔盖·伊万诺夫(Sergei Ivanov)的言论。他谴责欧盟故意在6月22日宣布延长制裁，因为这一天是俄罗斯对二战遇难者表达敬意的纪念和哀悼日。
Mr. Ivanov, speaking to the Interfax news agency, also accused Belgium of announcing a plan to seize Russian assets last week in an attempt to mar the annual St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
通过俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)发声的伊万诺夫同时还谴责比利时上周宣布的罚没俄罗斯资产的计划，称此举意在破坏一年一度的圣彼得堡国际经济论坛(St. Petersburg Economic Forum)。
“Unfortunately it doesn’t surprise me anymore,” he said. “Do you believe in coincidences? Is it a coincidence that the St. Petersburg forum took place on the same days when the property seizure was declared? It’s not a coincidence, either.”
“很不幸，我再也不会惊讶了，”他说。“你们相信巧合吗？真的有这样巧的事情，圣彼得堡经济论坛开幕的同一天，他们就宣布要没收资产？同样的，这次也不是巧合。”
In response to the sanctions last year, Russia imposed a ban on most agricultural imports from Europe, dealing a severe blow to many farmers across the Continent and stripping Russian grocery store shelves of some favorite imports, including cheeses.
去年，作为对制裁的回应，俄罗斯对进口自欧洲的大多数农产品实施禁令。此举对欧洲大陆的许多务农者造成严重打击，也使得一些深受欢迎的进口产品从俄罗斯各地商店的货架上消失，比如奶酪。
Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, in a less emotional statement to reporters on Monday, said that those countersanctions would be extended.
周一，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)对记者表示，反制措施将会相应延长。他的发言并未带有那么强烈的感情色彩。
“The principle of mutuality is the foundation of our approach,” Mr. Peskov said. Russia had not initiated any sanctions, he said, but had only responded in kind. “We will follow the principle of mutuality.”
“礼尚往来是我方行为的基础，”佩斯科夫说。他还表示，俄罗斯未曾发起任何制裁，只是以牙还牙。“我们将会遵循对等原则。”
The Foreign Ministry, in its own statement, accused the European Union of trying to minimize the harm that sanctions against Russia were causing to its own member countries, including reduced jobs.
俄罗斯外交部在单独发表的声明中谴责欧盟试图尽量淡化因对俄制裁而引发的对其成员国的影响，包括工作机会的减少。
The ministry also accused the Europeans of bending to an anti-Russian lobby, apparently a jab at the United States, which had urged a continuation of sanctions to maintain pressure on the Kremlin over its intervention in eastern Ukraine.
外交部同时还谴责欧盟屈服于一股反俄游说势力。这一说辞明显是在抨击美国。美国此前一直敦促欧盟延续制裁，从而给予介入乌克兰东部的克林姆林宫持续的压力。
“We are deeply disappointed that once again the opinion of the Russophobic lobby, which pushed through the decision to extend illegal restrictions, dominated in the E.U.,” the Foreign Ministry’s spokesman, Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, said in the statement. “At the same time, in Brussels they are deliberately tight-lipped about the fact that this is guaranteed to be followed by hundreds of thousands of Europeans, or millions, according to some estimates, losing their jobs.”
“恐俄游说势力推动了延长非法限制的决策，其观点再一次在欧盟占了上风，我们对此深感失望，”外交部发言人亚历山大·卢卡舍维奇(Aleksandr K. Lukashevich)在声明中表示。“与此同时，在布鲁塞尔，他们故意守口如瓶的事实就是：这个决策注定会导致数十万乃至上百万的欧洲民众丢掉工作。”
Mr. Lukashevich also complained that the West was placing unfair responsibility on Russia for carrying out the Ukraine cease-fire agreement, which was signed in February in Minsk, Belarus. Russia has long insisted that the Ukrainian government bears the largest responsibility for the failure so far to put the accord in effect.
卢卡舍维奇还抱怨西方想让俄罗斯在实施乌克兰停火协议中承担不公平的责任。该协议于今年2月在白俄罗斯的明斯克签署。俄罗斯长久以来一直坚称，乌克兰政府要对停火协议迄今未能生效负有最大责任。
“The E.U. keeps laying all the responsibility over the implementation of the Minsk agreements on the Russian side,” Mr. Lukashevich said. “The absurdity of this approach has been long clear to everyone. The key to the internal Ukrainian crisis was and still remains in the hands of Kiev, which is not hurrying to implement its responsibilities.”
“欧盟不断把实施明斯克协议的所有责任归到俄罗斯一方，”卢卡舍维奇说。“这种做法的荒唐之处早就尽人皆知。乌克兰内部危机的关键一直都掌握在基辅手中，是基辅不急于履行自身的职责。”
As for the timing of the announcement, Mr. Lukashevich added: “It looks especially cynical that the decision to extend the anti-Russian sanctions was taken by the E.U. states on June 22, the day when fascist Germany attacked the U.S.S.R. We would like to believe that this is a coincidence, and not an intentionally planned step.”
至于决定出炉的时机，卢卡舍维奇还表示：“选择在6月22日做出延长欧盟国家反俄制裁的决定显得尤为虚伪。这一天是德国法西斯进攻苏联的日子。我们倒是想要相信这是巧合，而非故意之举。”
While the sanctions were originally imposed by the United States and the European Union, as well as Canada and other nations, to punish Russia for the invasion and annexation of Crimea, they have been viewed largely as an effort to dissuade the Kremlin from further intervention in eastern Ukraine, where it has backed an armed separatist insurrection.
尽管最初由美国、欧盟、加拿大等国共同实施的制裁意在惩罚俄罗斯入侵并吞并克里米亚的行为，但这些举措被大体看做是劝诫克里姆林宫不要继续干涉乌克兰东部的一种努力。俄罗斯一直在这一地区支持武装分裂分子的叛乱活动。
Western officials have generally spoken about the possibility of relaxing the sanctions once the Minsk peace agreement has been fully put in effect, but there has been virtually no discussion about the possibility of a Russian withdrawal from Crimea.
西方官员大致提到，一旦明斯克和平协议完全生效，西方或许就会放松制裁，但是几乎他们当中没有出现关于俄罗斯从克里米亚撤出可能性的讨论。
Last week, Russian officials similarly criticized a decision by the European Union to extend economic sanctions restricting most business dealings with Crimea. Those measures have been extended until June 23, 2016. The Foreign Ministry said the restrictions would do little other than “punish” residents of the Crimean Peninsula for what it called their free, democratic choice to join the Russian Federation.
上周，俄罗斯官员同样谴责了欧盟做出的延长限制与克里米亚之间的多数商业往来的经济制裁的决定。那些措施的时限将延至2016年6月23日。俄罗斯外交部表示，除了“惩罚”克里米亚半岛的居民，制裁起不到什么作用，而这种惩罚是因为他们做出了加入俄罗斯联邦的“自由民主”的选择。