NAPLES, Italy — Russian attack submarines, the most in two decades, are prowling the coastlines of Scandinavia and Scotland, the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic in what Western military officials say is a significantly increased presence aimed at contesting American and NATO undersea dominance.
意大利那不勒斯——俄罗斯攻击型核潜艇在斯堪的纳维亚和苏格兰的海岸线、地中海及北大西洋的巡航力度，达到了二十年来的最高水平。西方军事官员表示，它们的存在感显著上升，是为了和美国及北约争夺水下主导权。
Adm. Mark Ferguson, the United States Navy’s top commander in Europe, said last fall that the intensity of Russian submarine patrols had risen by almost 50 percent over the past year, citing public remarks by the Russian Navy chief, Adm. Viktor Chirkov. Analysts say that tempo has not changed since then.
去年秋天，美国海军在欧洲的最高指挥官马克·弗格森上将(Mark Ferguson)称，俄罗斯潜艇的巡逻力度较上年增长了近50%。此话援引了俄罗斯海军总司令维克多·奇尔科夫上将(Viktor Chirkov)的公开发言。分析人士说，自那之后，他们就一直保持着这样的巡逻力度。
The patrols are the most visible sign of a renewed interest in submarine warfare by President Vladimir V. Putin, whose government has spent billions of dollars for new classes of diesel and nuclear-powered attack submarines that are quieter, better armed and operated by more proficient crews than in the past.
这些巡逻活动极为明显地展示了俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(President Vladimir V. Putin)对潜艇战的新兴趣。他领导的政府在新型柴油与核动力攻击潜艇上花费了大笔资金。与之前的潜艇相比，它们发出的声音更小、装备更好，还配备了能力更强的船员。
The tensions are part of an expanding rivalry and military buildup, with echoes of the Cold War, between the United States and Russia. Moscow is projecting force not only in the North Atlantic but in Syria and Ukraine and building up its nuclear arsenal and cyberwarfare capabilities in what American military officials say is an attempt to prove its relevance after years of economic decline and retrenchment.
这样的紧张局势，是美俄之间日益加剧的对抗和军事装备升级的一部分，令人想起冷战时期。莫斯科不仅在北大西洋投射力量，在叙利亚和乌克兰也是如此，并且他们还在扩充核武库，增强网络战能力。美国军方官员表示，在经过多年的经济滑坡和紧缩开支之后这么做，俄罗斯是想证明自己仍然不容小觑。
Independent American military analysts see the increased Russian submarine patrols as a legitimate challenge to the United States and NATO. Even short of tensions, there is the possibility of accidents and miscalculations. But whatever the threat, the Pentagon is also using the stepped-up Russian patrols as another argument for bigger budgets for submarines and anti-submarine warfare.
独立的美国军事分析师认为，俄罗斯加大了潜艇巡逻力度，是对美国和北约的严肃挑战。即使没有出现紧张局面，也存在发生事故和失误的可能性。不过，无论面临着的危险是大是小，五角大楼也在把俄罗斯加紧巡逻的做法作为依据之一，希望借此获得更多的潜艇和反潜战预算。
American naval officials say that in the short term, the growing number of Russian submarines, with their ability to shadow Western vessels and European coastlines, will require more ships, planes and subs to monitor them. In the long term, the Defense Department has proposed $8.1 billion over the next five years for “undersea capabilities,” including nine new Virginia-class attack submarines that can carry up to 40 Tomahawk cruise missiles, more than triple the capacity now.
美国海军官员称，从短期来看，俄罗斯潜艇数量的增加，以及它们给西方舰只和欧洲的海岸线投下阴影的能力，需要动用更多的舰艇、飞机和潜艇来对其进行监控。从长远来看，美国国防部提出在今后五年内使用81亿美元的预算，将“水下能力”提高到目前的三倍以上，包括增加九艘新的弗吉尼亚级攻击潜艇，每艘可携带至多40枚战斧(Tomahawk)巡航导弹。
“We’re back to the great powers competition,” Adm. John M. Richardson, the chief of naval operations, said in an interview.
“我们又回到了大国竞争的年代，”美国海军作战部负责人约翰·M·理查森上将(John M. Richardson)在接受采访时说。
Last week, unarmed Russian warplanes repeatedly buzzed a Navy destroyer in the Baltic Sea and at one point came within 30 feet of the warship, American officials said. Last year some of Russia’s new diesel submarines launched four cruise missile at targets in Syria.
美国官员称，上周在波罗的海，俄罗斯一些没有装备武器的战斗机多次靠近一艘美国海军驱逐舰，有一次距离舰身不足30英尺（约合9米）。去年，俄罗斯的新型柴油动力潜艇朝叙利亚境内的目标发射了四枚巡航导弹。
Mr. Putin’s military modernization program also includes new intercontinental ballistic missiles as well as aircraft, tanks and air defense systems.
除了飞机、坦克和防空系统之外，普京的军事现代化计划还包括新的洲际弹道导弹。
To be sure, there is hardly parity between the Russian and American submarine fleets. Russia has about 45 attack submarines — about two dozen are nuclear-powered and 20 are diesel — which are designed to sink other submarines or ships, collect intelligence and conduct patrols. But Western naval analysts say that only about half of those are able to deploy at any given time. Most stay closer to home and maintain an operational tempo far below a Cold War peak.
可以肯定的是，俄罗斯的潜艇舰队无法与美国媲美。俄罗斯拥有约45艘攻击型潜艇——约20多艘是核动力，还有20艘是柴油驱动——其设计目标是击沉其他潜艇或舰只，搜集情报和开展巡逻。但西方海军分析人士认为，其中只有大约一半可以随时进行部署。大多数停留在离家更近的地方，开展行动的节奏远低于冷战高峰期。
The United States has 53 attack submarines, all nuclear-powered, as well as four other nuclear-powered submarines that carry cruise missiles and Special Operations forces. At any given time, roughly a third of America’s attack submarines are at sea, either on patrols or training, with the others undergoing maintenance. American Navy officials and Western analysts say that American attack submarines, which are made for speed, endurance and stealth to deploy far from American shores, remain superior to their Russian counterparts.
相比之下，美国拥有53艘攻击型潜艇，全部采用核动力，还有其他四艘载有巡航导弹和特种作战部队的核动力潜艇。在任何时间，美国都有大约三分之一的攻击型潜艇在海上开展活动，不是在巡逻，就是在实训，而其他舰艇在进行保养维护。美国海军官员和西方分析师称，美国攻击核潜艇在设计上以速度、耐力和隐身见长，可以部署在距离美国海岸很远的地方，一直以来都优于俄罗斯潜艇。
The Pentagon is also developing sophisticated technology to monitor encrypted communications from Russian submarines and new kinds of remotely controlled or autonomous vessels. Members of the NATO alliance, including Britain, Germany and Norway, are at the same time buying or considering buying new submarines in response to the Kremlin’s projection of force in the Baltic and Arctic.
五角大楼还在研发一些先进技术，以便监测俄罗斯潜艇及新型远程控制或无人舰艇的加密通讯。与此同时，包括英国、德国和挪威在内的一些北约成员国，在购入或者考虑购买新潜艇，以应对克里姆林宫在波罗的海和北极地区的力量投射。
But Moscow’s recently revised national security and maritime strategies emphasize the need for Russian maritime forces to project power and to have access to the broader Atlantic Ocean as well as the Arctic.
然而，莫斯科最近修改国家安全和海洋战略，强调了俄罗斯海军需要进行力量投射，需要能够进入更广阔的大西洋及北极地区。
Russian submarines and spy ships now operate near the vital undersea cables that carry almost all global Internet communications, raising concerns among some American military and intelligence officials that the Russians could attack those lines in times of tension or conflict. Russia is also building an undersea unmanned drone capable of carrying a small, tactical nuclear weapon to use against harbors or coastal areas, American military and intelligence analysts said.
俄罗斯潜艇和间谍船目前在重要的海底光缆附近活动，而几乎所有的全球互联网通讯都通过这些光缆进行。一些美国军事和情报官员因此担心，俄罗斯可能会在紧张或冲突时期对这些光缆下手。美国军方和情报分析师表示，俄罗斯还在研发一种水下无人舰艇，能够运载一枚小型的战术核武器，对港口或沿海地区进行打击。
And, like the United States, Russia operates larger nuclear-powered submarines that carry long-range nuclear missiles and spend months at a time hiding in the depths of the ocean. Those submarines, although lethal, do not patrol like the attack submarines do, and do not pose the same degree of concern to American Naval officials.
而且，俄罗斯也像美国一样，在使用携带远程核导弹并能在深海潜藏好多个月的大型核动力潜艇。这些潜艇虽然杀伤力巨大，但不像攻击型潜艇那样四处巡逻，因此也没有在美国海军官员中引起同等程度的关切。
Analysts say that Moscow’s continued investment in attack submarines is in contrast to the quality of many of Russia’s land and air forces that frayed in the post-Cold War era.
分析人士称，莫斯科在攻击型潜艇上持续投入，与该国在后冷战时期老化退步的很多陆军和空军形成了水准上的对比。
“In the Russian naval structure, submarines are the crown jewels for naval combat power,” said Magnus Nordenman, director of the Atlantic Council’s trans-Atlantic security initiative in Washington. “The U.S. and NATO haven’t focused on anti-submarine operations lately, and they’ve let that skill deteriorate.”
“在俄罗斯海军结构中，潜艇是海军作战力量皇冠上的宝石，”华盛顿大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)的跨大西洋安全计划主任马格努斯·诺登曼(Magnus Nordenman)说。“美国和北约近来没有把重点放在反潜作战上，这方面的能力有所生疏。”
That has allowed for a rapid Russian resurgence, Western and American officials say, partly in response to what they say is Russia’s fear of being hemmed in.
西欧和美国官员认为，这为俄罗斯提供了快速复苏的机会。他们说俄罗斯担心遭到包围，而这是它采取此类行动的原因之一。