MOSCOW—President Vladimir V. Putin approved on Monday the delivery of a sophisticated air defense missile system to Iran, potentially complicating negotiations on Tehran’s nuclear program and further straining ties with Washington.
莫斯科——周一，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)批准了向伊朗交付尖端防空导弹系统的计划，此举可能会使有关伊朗核计划的谈判变得更加复杂，并进一步加剧俄罗斯与美国的紧张关系。
The sale also could undermine the Obama administration’s efforts to sell Congress and foreign allies on the nuclear deal, which Iran and the United States are still struggling to complete. It might also reduce United States leverage in the talks by making it much more difficult for the United States or Israel to mount airstrikes against Iran’s nuclear infrastructure if the country ignored such an agreement.
该交易可能还会破坏奥巴马政府说服国会和外国盟友接受核协议的努力，伊朗和美国仍在就达成协议艰难地努力。这可能还会削弱美国在谈判中的反制手段，因为如果伊朗无视该协议，美国或以色列将更难对伊朗的核设施发动空袭。
“It is significant as it complicates the calculus for planning any military option involving airstrikes,” said David A. Deptula, a retired three-star general who served an Air Force’s deputy chief staff for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.
退休中将、美国空军主管情报、监视和侦察事宜的前副参谋长戴维·A·德普图拉(David A. Deptula)表示，“它很重要，因为原本计划采取包括空袭在内的任何军事行动的考量，都会受到此次交易的干扰。”
The deal, worth an estimated $800 million to Russia, also confirmed Israeli and Arab fears that a nuclear pact and the subsequent lifting of sanctions would ignite the Iranian economy, making it a more formidable regional power.
该交易也证实了以色列和阿拉伯国家的担忧，即签订核协议及随后解除制裁的举措会刺激伊朗经济，使其成为更为强大的地区大国。这笔交易会给俄罗斯带来8亿美元（约合50亿元人民币）的收入。
There was no timetable announced for delivering the weapons, S-300 surface-to-air missiles. The sale was suspended five years ago amid a flurry of United Nations sanctions against the Islamic Republic.
俄罗斯尚未公布交付S-300地对空导弹的时间表。该交易在五年之前被搁置，当时联合国对伊朗伊斯兰共和国施加了一系列制裁。
Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said that far from complicating the continuing negotiations with Iran on its nuclear program the missile sales would actually help them along.
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)表示，出售导弹的交易非但不会干扰仍在进行中的伊朗核计划谈判，实际上反而有助于推动谈判。
“It was done in the spirit of good will in order to encourage progress in the talks,” Mr. Lavrov said in a televised statement. “We believe that the need for this kind of embargo, indeed a separate, voluntary Russian embargo, has completely disappeared.”
“为了鼓励谈判取得进展，我们出于善意批准了交易计划，”拉夫罗夫在电视上发表的声明中称，“我们认为已经完全不需要这种禁运举措了，实际上那也是俄罗斯单独、自愿实行的禁运。”
The missile deal did not pose a threat to Israel, Mr. Lavrov said, stressing that the S-300 was a defensive weapon.
拉夫罗夫表示，该交易不会对以色列构成威胁，他强调S-300属于防御武器。
The five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany been negotiating with Iran for years to try to insure that its nuclear program remains peaceful.
联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)五个常任理事国及德国，与伊朗开展了多年的谈判，以设法确保伊朗的核计划用于和平目的。
The broad framework of a deal reached in Lausanne, Switzerland, on April 2 was preliminary, with several difficult issues still to be resolved by a June 30 deadline, including the pace at which sanctions should be lifted. The last thing proponents of the deal want to see is a rush to shower benefits on Iran before the final agreement is reached.
4月2日在瑞士洛桑达成的广泛的框架协议，只是一份初步协议，还有几个难题需要在截止日期6月30日前解决，比如解除制裁的速度。协议的支持者最不想看到的局面，就是在达成最终协议前，急于向伊朗给予大量好处。
Along with congressional Republicans, Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has been harshly critical of the nuclear deal, saying it will do nothing to stop Iran from getting a weapon while freeing it from debilitating economic sanctions.
除了国会的共和党人，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)也一直严厉批评达成核协议的举措。他形容该协议能使伊朗摆脱困扰该国的经济制裁，但无法阻止伊朗取得核武器。
On Monday, his intelligence minister, Yuval Steinitz, issued a statement saying the deal showed that “the economic momentum in Iran that will come in the wake of lifting the sanctions will be exploited for armaments and not used for the welfare of the Iranian people.”
周一，以色列情报部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)发表声明称，该交易表明，“解除制裁给伊朗经济带来的推动，会被用于加强军备，而不是增进伊朗人民的福祉。”
Iran, he added, “is being allowed to arm itself with advanced weapons that will only increase its aggression.”
他还表示，伊朗“现在得以利用先进武器武装自己，这种武器只会加大它的侵略性”。
White House officials repeated the administration’s objections to the missile sale, noting that Secretary of State John Kerry had expressed those concerns recently to Mr. Lavrov.
白宫官员重申了政府对出售导弹的反对，并指出美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)最近向拉夫罗夫表达了这些担忧。
”I’m not in a position to speculate on the decision-making process that Russia is engaged in right now,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary. “But I do think it’s safe to say that Russia understands that the United States certainly takes very seriously the safety and security of our allies in the region.”
“我没办法揣测俄罗斯目前的决策过程，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说。“但我认为可以肯定地说，俄罗斯知道，美国必然非常重视我们在该地区的盟友的安全问题。”
Russia has been aggressively seeking new trade partners to prove that Western sanctions have not isolated it from the global economy. Although the full details have not been disclosed, the Russian news media reported that Moscow has negotiated an oil-for-goods exchange with Iran that involves acquiring some 500,000 barrels of Iranian oil a day in exchange for Russian equipment and goods. Iran has long been one of the main buyers of Russian wheat, for example.
俄罗斯一直在积极寻找新的贸易伙伴，以证明西方的制裁并没有把它从全球经济中孤立出去。尽管全部细节尚未透露，但是据俄罗斯新闻媒体报道，莫斯科已与伊朗就一个石油换商品项目进行了谈判，届时伊朗将以每天50万桶石油来交换俄罗斯的设备和商品。例如长期以来，伊朗一直是俄罗斯小麦的主要买家之一。
“We need to think about the future of our trade partnership,” said Andrei A. Klimov, the deputy chairman of the foreign relations committee in the Federation Council, Russia’s Senate. “We don’t want to wait for anybody else, it is a kind of competition, if you like.”
“我们需要思考我们贸易伙伴关系的未来，”俄罗斯议会上院联邦委员会(Federation Council)外交关系委员会副主席安德烈·A·克利莫夫(Andrei A. Klimov)说。“我们不想等待别人，可以说这是一种竞争。”
Not surprisingly, Iran praised the move as an important step toward improved relations.
意料之中的是，伊朗称赞此举朝改善关系迈进了重要一步。
“If Russia fulfills its commitment to deliver the S-300 missile system to Iran, it will be a step toward boosting the relations and collaborations between the two countries,” Iran’s deputy defense minister, Reza Talaienik, told the semiofficial Tasnim News Agency on Monday. “It will be a step forward.”
“如果俄罗斯履行了向伊朗运送S-300导弹系统的承诺，就会朝改善两国的关系与合作迈进一步，”伊朗国防部副部长礼萨·塔拉伊埃尼克(Reza Talaienik)周一告诉半官方的塔斯尼姆通讯社(Tasnim News Agency)。“这将是向前迈出的一步。”
There was some debate as to just how much the missiles would improve Iran’s military capabilities.
关于这些导弹将在何种程度上提高伊朗的军事能力，还存在一些争论。
The five S-300 squadrons cannot shield all of Iran’s nuclear facilities, said Simon Saradzhyan, an expert on arms control and Russia at Harvard University’s Belfer Center, while noting that Russia just sold China the more sophisticated S-400 system. The official Tass news agency reported that in February Moscow offered Tehran a more modern air defense system than the S-300, but that no decision had been reached.
哈佛大学(Harvard University)贝尔福研究中心(Belfer Center)研究武器控制和俄罗斯的专家西蒙·萨拉德日扬(Simon Saradzhyan)表示，这五套S-300导弹系统无法为伊朗所有的核设施提供保护。这名专家还指出，俄罗斯刚刚向中国出售了更先进的S-400系统。据官方通讯社塔斯社(Tass)报道，莫斯科2月向德黑兰提出，可以出售比S-300更先进的防空系统，但双方尚未做出决定。
Still, military experts said that the highly capable S-300 system would made it much more difficult for the United States or Israel to mount airstrikes against Iran’s nuclear infrastructure if the country ignored any agreement.
不过军事专家称，有了威力强大的S-300系统，如果伊朗不遵守协议，美国或以色列对伊朗核设施发动空袭的难度就将大大增加。