MOSCOW — Margarita R. Zobnina, a professor of marketing here, has been watching the Russian economy’s gathering woes with mounting alarm: friends who have moved abroad with no plans to return; others who put off new business ventures because of rising uncertainty. Meanwhile, Ms. Zobnina and her husband, Alexander, also a professor, have rented a safe deposit box to hold foreign cash as a hedge against the declining ruble.
莫斯科——营销学教授玛加丽塔·R·佐布尼娜(Margarita R. Zobnina)一直带着日益高涨的恐慌情绪，来观察俄罗斯经济的困境日益加深：朋友们移居海外，不打算回来；其他一些人推迟开拓新生意，因为不确定性越来越高。同时，佐布尼娜与同为教授的丈夫亚历山大(Alexander)租了一个保险柜，里面放外币现金，以此对冲俄罗斯卢布的不断贬值。
Most shocking, she says, is that her local grocery is now selling anchovies packed in sunflower oil rather than olive oil, an obvious response to the soaring cost of imports. “That really freaks me out,” she said.
她说，最令人震惊的是，当地生鲜店贩售凤尾鱼的时候如今裹的是葵花籽油，而不是橄榄油，明显是因为进口商品价格飙升。“这真让我慌了神，”她说。
While the annexation of Crimea has rocketed President Vladimir V. Putin’s approval rating to more than 80 percent, it has also contributed to a sobering downturn in Russia’s economy that appears to be worsening even before Western sanctions take full effect. With inflation rising, growth stagnating, the ruble and stock market plunging, and billions in capital fleeing the country for safety, the economy is teetering on the edge of recession, as the country’s minister of economic development acknowledged on Wednesday.
尽管吞并克里米亚之举让俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的支持率飙升至80%以上，但这也明显地推动了俄罗斯经济下行。西方的制裁尚未全面发挥作用，但俄罗斯经济似乎已在日趋恶化。随着通胀攀升、增长停滞、卢布迅速贬值、股市急降，以及数百亿美元资本为避险而出逃，俄罗斯经济发展部长上周三承认，该国正在经济衰退的边缘徘徊。
Mr. Putin, who just lavished $50 billion on the Sochi Olympics, also must absorb the costs of integrating Crimea, which economists and other experts say has its own sickly economy and expensive infrastructure needs. The economic costs have been masked by recent patriotic fervor but could soon haunt the Kremlin, as prices rise, wages stall and consumer confidence erodes.
普京刚刚在索契冬奥会上豪掷500亿美元（约合3100亿元人民币），同时还必须咽下吞并克里米亚的账单。经济学家等专家表示，克里米亚自身经济孱弱，有着代价巨大的基础设施需求。这些经济成本暂时被近期的爱国热情掩盖，但随着物价上涨、收入停滞及消费者信心减退，可能很快就会让克里姆林宫感到头疼。
Even before the Crimean episode, and the resulting imposition of sanctions by the West, Russia’s $2 trillion economy was suffering from stagflation, that toxic mix of stagnant growth and high inflation typically accompanied by a spike in unemployment. In Russia, joblessness remains low, but only because years of population decline have produced a shrunken, inadequate labor force.
早在克里米亚事件及随之而来的西方制裁出现之前，2万亿美元规模的俄罗斯经济就已遭遇滞胀。滞胀是一种危险的组合，增长停滞、通胀高企，往往还伴随着失业率飙升。俄罗斯的失业率维持在了低位，但不过是因为多年的人口减少导致劳动力萎缩、不足。
In recent weeks, international and Russian banks have slashed their growth projections for 2014, with the World Bank saying the economy could shrink by 1.8 percent if the West imposes more sanctions over Ukraine. By some accounts, more than $70 billion in capital has fled the country so far this year and the main stock market index fell by 10 percent in March — and a dizzying 3 percent just on Tuesday over fears of greater Russian involvement in Ukraine.
最近几周，跨国银行与俄罗斯银行纷纷下调对2014年度的俄罗斯经济增长预期，而世界银行(World Bank)认为，假如西方因乌克兰问题而施加进一步的制裁，俄罗斯经济或许会缩水1.8%。按照一些测算，今年以来，已有逾700亿美元的资本逃离该国。主要的股票指数在3月份下滑了10%，而且，出于对俄罗斯进一步干涉乌克兰的担忧，光是周二一天股指就下滑了惊人的3%。
“This is our fee of sorts for conducting an independent foreign policy,” Aleksei L. Kudrin, a former Russian finance minister, said at a recent investor conference in Moscow. He added that the sanctions and the fallout from Mr. Putin’s foreign policy moves would drain hundreds of billions of dollars from the national economy and strangle growth for the remainder of the year.
“这是我们实施独立外交政策的某种代价，”  俄罗斯前财政部长阿里克塞·库德林(Aleksei L. Kudrin)最近在莫斯科举行的一个投资者会议上说。他补充说，西方制裁和普京的外交政策行动有可能导致数千亿美元的国民经济损失，并会扼制今年余下时间的经济增长。
But Mr. Kudrin, who quit his post in a dispute over the Kremlin’s economic policies, said the population had yet to confront the full bill, which he predicted would grow as a result of the steep costs of absorbing Crimea, a geographically isolated peninsula. “Society has not yet seen the final result, and that will be when this puts the brakes on real incomes,” he said. “For now, society accepts this fee.”
由于在克里姆林宫经济政策上存在分歧，库德林辞了职。他表示，俄罗斯人尚未面对完整的账单。根据他的预测，吞并地理上与其他地方隔绝的克里米亚半岛将带来巨大的成本，因而账单还将进一步增加。“社会还没有看到最终后果，当这让真实收入陷入停滞的时候，就会看到了，”他说。“当前，社会接受了这种代价。”
From a textbook perspective, the deep-rooted ills in Russia’s economy have been clear for years: The decade-long skyrocketing in energy prices that buoyed Mr. Putin’s popularity has flatlined, exposing the country’s dangerous over-reliance on revenues from oil and natural gas. Efforts to diversify into manufacturing, high technology and other sectors have failed, and officials have been unable, or unwilling, to stop the rampant, corrosive corruption that scares off foreign investors.
从教科书的角度来看，俄罗斯经济的深层问题多年来已经显露无遗：能源价格10年来的高涨提升了普京的支持率，但现在已经陷于停滞，显示出该国过于依赖油气收入的状况十分危险。促进经济多元化，使经济增长更多地依赖制造业和高科技等部门的努力以失败告终。官方既没有能力，也没有意愿制止猖獗的腐败行为，而这种腐败影响恶劣，让外国投资者望而却步。
Miljenko Horvat, a private equity investor who ran Citibank’s office in Russia in the 1990s, said that Russia had simply failed to make itself economically relevant beyond its energy supplies.
曾在上世纪90年代执掌花旗银行(Citibank)俄罗斯分部的私募投资人米连科·霍瓦特(Miljenko Horvat)认为，俄罗斯没能让自身走出能源供应，在其他领域获得经济上的重要性。
Mr. Horvat, who now lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said that he often challenged his Russian friends by making the following point: “I wake up in the morning and drink coffee from a machine made by a Swiss company, Nescafé. I wear something that was designed in France or Italy but probably made in Turkey. I get into a German car, look at a Korean phone, use a computer that was designed in California but made in Japan or Korea. Russia just doesn’t touch me in my daily life. It just doesn’t matter. It’s just not relevant. So where is the economic engine going to come from?”
霍瓦特目前在加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省的温哥华生活。他说自己常常用下面的观点来反驳俄罗斯友人：“我早上起床，从瑞士公司雀巢生产的机器中接杯咖啡喝。我身上的衣服在法国或意大利设计，很可能在土耳其生产。我开德国车，用韩国手机，还有加州设计但在日本或韩国制造的电脑。俄罗斯完全挤不进我的日常生活，根本无关紧要、无足轻重。那么，经济引擎到底要从何而来呢？”
Mr. Horvat said that he had lived in Russia through defaults in 1991, 1993 and 1998 and that he expected another one. “I am not long in Russia,” he said, invoking the financial term for betting on a rising stock, “neither in my portfolio, nor in life.”
霍瓦特表示，在俄罗斯生活期间，那里经历了1991年、1993年和1998年的违约。他预计，未来还将出现违约现象。“我现在不会做多俄罗斯，不管是在投资上，还是个人生活中，”他说。“做多”是金融术语，指的是看好股价上扬。
Given the recent turmoil, a catastrophe has been averted so far largely because the price of oil has remained stubbornly high, at nearly $110 per barrel of Brent crude on Wednesday, even as production steadily rises in the United States. For now, that has kept the federal budget in decent shape with still no deficit projected for the year.
鉴于近期的动荡，俄罗斯之所以迄今避免了灾难，很大程度上是因为油价坚挺（上周三，布伦特原油收于每桶近110美元），尽管美国的产量在稳步上升。目前，油价保障了俄罗斯联邦预算状况良好，预计今年不会产生赤字。
But even without a shock, it is not clear how Russia will manage to climb out of the current quagmire. Stagflation is among the most confounding economic problems that policy makers can face, and officials here seem flummoxed, with the Central Bank, Finance Ministry and Economics Ministry urging contradictory steps.
然而，就算没有冲击，也不清楚俄罗斯如何能够爬出当前的泥潭。滞胀是决策者最难对付的棘手经济问题之一，而俄罗斯官员似乎困惑不已，因为央行、财政部和经济部敦促采取的是相互矛盾的措施。