Moscow has released an initial list of “undesirable organizations” that constitute a “threat to the foundations of the constitutional system of the Russian Federation, its defense capabilities and its national security.” Along with the Open Society Foundation, the National Endowment for Democracy, the National Democratic Institute and International Republican Institute, the list includes the MacArthur Foundation.
莫斯科发布了一份“不受欢迎组织”的初步名单，称这些组织“对俄罗斯联邦的宪法体系根基、防御实力，以及国家安全”构成了威胁。除了开放社会基金会(Open Society Foundation)、国家民主基金会(National Endowment for Democracy)、美国国际民主研究院(National Democratic Institute)、国际共和研究所(International Republican Institute)之外，这个名单里还包括麦克阿瑟基金会(MacArthur Foundation)。
The move, part of Vladimir Putin’s campaign to stifle civil society in Russia, comes as no surprise. What is surprising and depressing, though, has been the overall reaction of Western NGOs and Russian academics to the Kremlin’s action. As one who has been closely involved in efforts to improve ties between Russian and American scientists for more than two decades, I’ve seen few signs of serious protest against Moscow’s campaign to end a long and fruitful era of cooperation. Most people have responded in the same way: Keep your head down and hope that you are not a victim.
这一举动是弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)在俄罗斯压制公民社会的行动中的一个环节，因此并不令人惊讶。然而，让人感到诧异和沮丧的是西方非政府组织和俄罗斯学者对于克里姆林宫此举总体上采取的反应。在过去20多年里，我一直密切参与改善俄美两国科学家的关系的种种努力。但俄罗斯方面大张旗鼓地终止了一段富有成果的长期合作，我却几乎没有看到人们有表达抗议的迹象。多数人的回应都是同一种方式：保持低调，希望自己不要成为受害者。
In the early 1990s, I served as executive director of George Soros’s International Science Foundation for the former Soviet Union and Baltic States. We helped tens of thousands of scientists remain in the profession by giving them emergency support grants to feed their families. We spent nearly $70 million on the region’s first peer-reviewed research grant competition. And we induced Mr. Soros to allocate another $100 million to establish Internet centers at Russian universities.
在1990年代初，我在乔治·索罗斯(George Soros)的国际科学基金会(International Science Foundation)担任前苏联和巴尔干国家事务执行主任。我们向数以万计的科学家提供了紧急拨款，让他们能维持生计，从而继续从事科学事业。我们花费了近7000万美元，资助了该地区首次同行评议研究经费竞赛。我们还说服索罗斯，再拨款1亿美元，在俄罗斯的各个大学建立互联网中心。
After Mr. Soros shifted his focus and curtailed his support for the foundation in 1995, Victor Rabinowitch of the MacArthur Foundation asked several people who had been involved to devise a program to advance research in the natural sciences in the Russian education system. Gerson Sher, who had worked for decades at the National Science Foundation, Loren Graham, a prominent historian of science at M.I.T., and I developed a proposal to establish centers combining research and education at Russian universities — a shift from the Soviet model, in which universities emphasized teaching while the Academy of Sciences and industry institutes conducted research.
1995年，索罗斯的注意力转向其他地方，削弱了对基金会的支持。之后，麦克阿瑟基金会的维克多·罗宾诺维奇(Victor Rabinowitch)邀请几位参与者制定一个方案，在俄罗斯教育体系里推动自然科学的研究。曾在国家科学基金会(National Science Foundation)供职十多年的格森·谢尔(Gerson Sher)、麻省理工的著名科学史学家洛伦·格雷厄姆(Loren Graham)连同我，提出了一项方案，在俄罗斯的大学里建立研究与教学相结合的中心。这脱离了苏联模式，即大学强调教学，而科学院和产业界的研究所开展研究。
In 1997, we refined the proposal at a conference at Georgetown University with several Russian colleagues. When we presented the program to the education minister, Alexander Tikhonov, in March 1998, he was enthusiastic, stating that his ministry would match every dollar that MacArthur and its partner in the project, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, contributed.
1997年，我们在乔治城大学的一场会议上，与几位俄罗斯同事共同修订了该方案。我们在1998年3月将方案提交给教育部长亚历山大·季霍诺夫(Alexander Tikhonov)时，他充满热情，表示要做出与麦克阿瑟基金会及其项目伙伴纽约卡内基基金会(Carnegie Corporation)的资助等额的支持。
That August Russia was hit by an economic crisis, but we were able to keep our programs going. We established a governing council with seven Russian and seven foreign members that made all decisions by consensus. We selected 16 Russian universities to receive grants of $1 million over three years. We also established the first technology transfer offices at Russian universities, helped Russian scientists learn how to deal with equipment suppliers, and provided funding to attend international conferences. These efforts were based on the conviction that we could help a country with an outstanding scientific tradition to continue to contribute to the international community.
那年8月，俄罗斯遭经济危机重创，但我们的项目得以继续进行。我们设立了一个管理理事会，包括七位俄罗斯和外国的成员，所有决策都基于共识达成。我们选出了16家俄罗斯大学，在三年时间里向它们提供100万美元的资金。我们还在俄罗斯的大学里建立了最早的技术转移办公室，帮助俄罗斯科学家学习如何与设备供应商打交道，并资助他们参加国际会议。这些努力基于的信念是，我们可以帮助这个拥有优良科学传统的国家，继续为国际社会贡献才智。
Andrei Fursenko, the minister of education and science from 2004 to 2012, was a strong supporter. As MacArthur Foundation funding began to taper off, he asked for our help in developing four more research and education centers to be funded by his ministry, which subsequently established many more of these centers. Mr. Putin, campaigning to reclaim the presidency in 2012, praised them as a “Russian and international model of combining science and education” and proposed establishing them at 10 of the military’s institutions of higher education.
2004年至2012年的教育部长安德烈·福尔申科(Andrei Fursenko)是个坚定的支持者。随着麦克阿瑟基金会的资助逐渐减少，他要求我们提供协助，再建立四所研究教学中心，由教育部出资。之后，俄罗斯教育部又建立了很多这样的中心。2012年，谋求再度当选总统的普京在竞选中称赞它们在“俄罗斯乃至全世界，都是将科学与教育相结合的典范”，还提议在10所军方的高等教育机构中，建立这样的中心。
In June 2014 I met with Mr. Fursenko in Moscow. He expressed concern about Russian scientists refusing to revise their articles to respond to criticisms and suggestions from peer reviewers — a major reason behind their declining share of publications in international journals.
2014年6月，我与福尔申科在莫斯科会面。他对俄罗斯科学家的态度表达了担忧，他们拒绝回应同行评议专家提出的批评和建议，对论文作出修改——这样的态度是俄罗斯科学家在国际期刊上发表文章数量下降的一个主要原因。
Earlier this month, I saw Mr. Fursenko again. I expressed my concerns over the Kremlin’s recent actions. He told me bluntly that things have changed. He said that this was because “America cannot tolerate any partner who does not behave as an obedient child listening to a parent’s strictures.” Russia, he said, is tired of this.
本月早些时候，我又见到了福尔申科。我向他表达了自己对克里姆林宫最近一系列行动的担忧。他直言不讳地告诉我，情况已经发生了变化。他说这是因为“美国要求合作伙伴都要像个顺从的孩子，任由父母摆布，不能容忍任何异议。”他说，俄罗斯受够了这一点。
What produced this dramatic shift? Some might point to Russian revanchism, the seizure of Crimea and the conflict in Ukraine. But these are symptoms of a broader reversal. The Kremlin, suspicious of the West’s democratic values and what they might bring, now finds the risks of cooperation to be too great.
是什么导致如此剧烈的变化？有些人可能会指向俄罗斯收复失地的意愿、吞并克里米亚和乌克兰冲突。但这些是一个更大范围内的趋势逆转征兆。克里姆林宫对西方民主价值观以及它们可能带来的东西持怀疑态度，现在他们发现与之合作的风险可能会太大。
Pushback, though feeble, is not entirely dead. After Kendrick White, an American entrepreneur and innovator who had been working with Nizhnyi Novgorod University for many years, was dismissed late last month for actions that were “harmful” to Russia, the National Association of Business Angels demanded an investigation. When the Kremlin designated the Dynasty Foundation — the one Russian family foundation supporting scientific research — as a foreign agent, some Russian scientists and ordinary citizens protested. Unfortunately, Dynasty’s board has voted to end its activities.
反抗虽然微弱，但也并非完全没有。美国创业、革新人士肯德里克·怀特(Kendrick White)之前在下诺夫哥罗德大学(Nizhnyi Novgorod University)工作多年，上月下旬他被校方解雇，理由是他做出了“伤害”俄罗斯的行为。之后全国商业天使协会(National Association of Business Angels)要求对此事进行调查。当克里姆林宫将王朝基金会(Dynasty Foundation)——资助科研项目的俄罗斯家族基金会——指为外国代理人，一些俄罗斯科学家和普通市民提出了抗议。不幸的是，王朝基金会理事会已经投票决定终止该机构的活动。
The United States government, understandably, is wary of reinforcing Kremlin claims that American NGOs are being used by Washington to establish a fifth column in Russia. Its response has been measured. But this is a battle the Russian academic community and other professional groups must fight. It is up to Russian scholars and foreign NGOs to defend their work, loudly and clearly.
克里姆林宫宣称华盛顿正利用美国NGO组织在俄罗斯建立“第五纵队”。美国政府尽力避免强化这一说法，这不难理解。他们的反应非常谨慎。但这是俄罗斯学术界和其他专业组织必须进行的一场战斗。俄罗斯学者和外国NGO组织要用响亮而清晰的声音捍卫自己的工作。
Rather than hushing up after its assistant director was turned away at Moscow’s international airport, the Kennan Institute should be encouraging its Russian alumni association to mount a vigorous protest. The MacArthur Foundation’s grantees number in the thousands. Banded together they would represent a powerful voice.
当凯南研究所(Kennan Institute)副所长在莫斯科国际机场被阻止入境时，他们应该鼓励其在俄罗斯的校友发起声势浩大的抗议行动，而非悄无声息地将这件事捂下去。麦克阿瑟基金会的资助项目数以千计。联合在一起，他们就可以发出强有力的声音。
If proponents of cooperation keep silent, the damage to Russia’s scientific establishment — and to the country’s future prosperity — will be even more extensive.
如果合作的支持者们保持沉默，对俄罗斯学术机构的伤害就会更加巨大，也会严重影响到这个国家的未来繁荣。