MOSCOW — A Russian charter flight ferrying 224 passengers and crew to St. Petersburg from the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, crashed soon after taking off early Saturday, killing everyone onboard, officials in Egypt and Russia said.
莫斯科——埃及及俄罗斯官员称，周六在西奈半岛坠毁的俄罗斯客机机上224人无人生还。这架客机原定从红海度假圣地沙姆沙伊赫飞往圣彼得堡，在起飞后不久坠毁。
The plane, an 18-year-old Airbus A321-200, disappeared from radar screens about 25 minutes after it took off, according to official accounts.
官员表示，这架机龄18年的空中客车A321-200客机在起飞25分钟后就从雷达上消失了。
Hossam Kamal, the Egyptian transportation minister, denied that anything abnormal had happened before the plane disappeared. Earlier news reports in Egypt, citing officials, said the pilot had radioed that he was having technical difficulties and wanted to make an emergency landing.
此前有埃及媒体援引当地官员报道称，该客机的飞行员曾与地面联络，称飞机有技术故障，并请求紧急降落。埃及交通部长霍萨姆·卡马尔(Hossam Kamal)否认了这一说法，称在飞机失联前没有任何不正常的迹象。
“Communications between the pilot and the tower were very normal — no distress signals occurred,” Kamal said at a news conference.
“飞行员和塔台间的通讯很正常——没有任何不幸的征兆。”卡马尔在新闻发布会上说。
The Egyptian government sent military crews and 50 ambulances to the crash site in an area called Hasana, a mountainous region about 46 miles south of El-Arish, the main city in the part of the Sinai Peninsula where the crash occurred. The ambulances began taking the 129 bodies recovered to military helicopters, senior officials said. All 224 people onboard the plane died, the Russian Embassy in Cairo said in a brief statement on Twitter.
坠机发生在西奈半岛主要城市阿里什(El-Arish)以南46英里的山区哈萨纳地区，埃及政府已派出军队和50辆救护车赶赴坠机地点。官员称救护车已从现场移走129具尸体。根据俄罗斯驻开罗大使馆在Twitter发布的一份简报，机上224人全部遇难。
Hours after the crash, a branch of the Islamic State operating in Sinai claimed responsibility. There has been no indication that the branch has the kind of weapons needed to bring down a plane from a high altitude. The other possibility would be a bomb planted or carried onboard.
坠机发生数小时后，伊斯兰国(ISIS)在西奈半岛的一个分支组织声称对此事负责。没有任何迹象表明该组织拥有可以击落在高空飞行的飞机的武器。但也有可能是机上被放置了炸弹，或有人携带炸弹登机。
Maxim Sokolov, the Russian transportation minister, issued a statement rejecting reports that the plane had been the target of a terrorist attack.
俄罗斯交通部长马克西姆·索科洛夫(Maxim Sokolov)发表了一份声明，称没有证据表明飞机成为攻击目标。
“This information cannot be considered credible,” Sokolov said.
“这种报道不能被认为是真实可信的。”索科洛夫说。
Air France and Lufthansa said Saturday that they would avoid flying over the Sinai Peninsula as a precaution until further notice.
法国航空公司和汉莎航空公司周六表示，在得到进一步通知前，它们将停止飞越西奈半岛以防万一。
The plane was flying at 31,000 feet when it suddenly began to descend. The general range of the shoulder-fired missiles, commonly known as Manpads, that have been used against Egyptian military helicopters in the region is much lower, around 20,000 feet.
飞机消失时的飞行高度为31000英尺。而该地区武装组织用来攻击埃及军方直升机的肩扛发射的导弹(Manpad)所能达到的高度仅为20000英尺。
An Egyptian government statement said the plane had been carrying 217 passengers, including 17 children, and seven crew members. Everyone onboard was Russian, most from the St. Petersburg region, except for three passengers from Ukraine and one from Belarus.
埃及政府的一份声明显示，这架飞机共载有217名乘客，其中包括17名儿童，此外还有7名机组成员。除了3名乌克兰人和1名白俄罗斯人外，所有乘客均为俄罗斯人，绝大部分来自圣彼得堡地区。