MOSCOW — With NATO leaders expected to endorse a rapid-reaction force of 4,000 troops for Eastern Europe this week, a senior Russian military official said on Tuesday that Moscow would revise its military doctrine to account for “changing military dangers and military threats.”
莫斯科——正当北约领导人预计将于本周批准在东欧建立4000人快速反应部队的计划时，俄罗斯高级军事官员周二表示，莫斯科将修改其军事准则以诠释“正在变化的军事危险和军事威胁”。
In an interview with the Russian state news agency RIA Novosti, the official, Mikhail Popov, deputy secretary of Russia’s military Security Council, called the expansion of NATO “one of the leading military dangers for the Russian Federation.”
俄罗斯军事安全委员会副主任米哈伊尔·波波夫(Mikhail Popov)在接受俄罗斯国家通讯社俄新社采访时，称北约东扩为“俄罗斯联邦面临的主要军事威胁之一”。
Mr. Popov said Russia expected that leaders of NATO would seek to strengthen the alliance’s long-term military presence in Eastern Europe by establishing new military bases in the region and by deploying tanks in Estonia, a member of NATO that borders Russia.
波波夫说，俄罗斯预计，北约领导人将通过在东欧设立新的军事基地，以及在北约成员国、与俄罗斯接壤的爱沙尼亚部署坦克，来寻求加强北约在东欧的长期军事存在。
“We believe that the defining factor in our relationship with NATO remains the unacceptability for Russia of plans to move military infrastructures of the alliance to our borders, including by means of expanding the bloc,” Mr. Popov said.
“我们认为，我们与北约关系的关键因素，仍是俄罗斯不可接受的、北约将其军事基础设施搬到我们边界的计划，包括通过增加北约成员国的方法，”波波夫说。
NATO has long been the bugbear of Russian foreign policy. Speaking at a news conference in Moscow on Tuesday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said a recent initiative by the Ukrainian government to shed its nonaligned status and to join NATO could scuttle efforts to negotiate a peace settlement between Kiev and separatists in southeast Ukraine.
北约一直是俄罗斯外交政策头痛的问题。周二在莫斯科的一个记者会上，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)表示，乌克兰政府最近想摆脱其不结盟地位、加入北约的打算，可能会阻碍基辅与乌克兰东南地区分裂分子之间谈判和平解决方案的努力。
Before a NATO summit meeting begins in Wales on Thursday, President Obama is expected to visit Estonia to highlight the United States’ commitment to the military alliance and the alliance’s determination to protect all 28 members from aggression — from Moscow or elsewhere.
北约首脑会议将于周四在威尔士举行之前，奥巴马总统按计划将访问爱沙尼亚，以强调美国对北约所承担的义务，以及这个军事联盟要保护所有28个成员国不受来自莫斯科或其他国家侵略的决心。
On Tuesday morning, an aide to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia played down but did not deny a report that Mr. Putin had told José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, “if I want, I will take Kiev in two weeks.”
周二上午，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京的一名助手对一条报道不以为意，但也没有否认，报道称普京对欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)说，“如果我想要做的话，我会在两周内拿下基辅。”
The comments came as Mr. Barroso asked Mr. Putin about Russian troops in Ukraine. Mr. Putin, who has repeatedly denied having any troops there, then turned “to threats,” Mr. Barroso told the Italian newspaper La Repubblica.
普京说这句话，是在巴罗佐就乌克兰出现俄罗斯部队的问题向他提问时。普京曾多次否认有任何俄罗斯士兵在乌克兰，他这次转向“威胁”，巴罗佐告诉意大利报纸《共和报》。
Yuri V. Ushakov, an aide to Mr. Putin, said Mr. Barroso’s recounting of a private conversation was “inappropriate.”
普京的助手尤里·V·乌沙科夫(Yuri V. Ushakov)说，巴罗佐公开陈述私人谈话是“不恰当的”。
“Whether these words were said or not, in my viewpoint, this quote given is taken out of context and it had absolutely different sense,” Mr. Ushakov said.
“不管是不是说了这句话，从我的角度来看，这样引用是断章取义，有绝对不同的意思，”乌沙科夫说。
On a nationally televised call-in show in April, Mr. Putin said, “When the infrastructure of a military bloc approaches our borders, we have grounds for certain apprehensions and questions.”
在4月份的一次全国电视直播热线问答节目中，普京曾说，“当一个军事集团的基础设施接近我们的边界时，我们有理由表示某种忧虑和质疑。”
“We wanted to support the residents of Crimea, but we also followed certain logic: If we don’t do anything, Ukraine will be drawn into NATO sometime in the future,” Mr. Putin said, adding that “NATO ships will dock in Sevastopol, the city of Russia’s naval glory.”
“我们要支持克里米亚的居民，但我们也遵循一定的逻辑：如果我们什么都不做，乌克兰将在不久的将来被纳入北约，”普京说，他补充道，“北约船只将停靠在塞瓦斯托波尔，这个俄罗斯海军的光荣城市。”