MOSCOW — If this article were published in a newspaper based in Russia, it could be labeled 18+ — like an X-rated movie — and start with the following disclaimer: “This article contains information not suitable for readers younger than 18 years of age, according to Russian legislation.”
莫斯科——如果这篇文章要在俄罗斯的一家报纸出版，它会被定为18岁以上级别，就像限制级电影那样，还会在文章前面刊出以下的免责声明：“根据俄罗斯法律，本文中的部分内容不适合18岁以下读者。”
Such warnings, put on any articles that discuss homosexuality or gay rights, are the result of a law nominally aimed at “protecting” children by banning “propaganda on nontraditional sexual relationships” but widely understood as an effort to suppress homosexuality and Russia’s fledgling gay rights movement.
这样的警示会放在任何探讨同性恋行为或同性恋权益的文章里，它源自一部法律。名义上，该法的目的是禁止“反传统性关系的宣传”，从而“保护儿童”，但各方普遍认为，它是为了压制同性恋行为，以及俄罗斯刚刚萌发的同性恋权益运动。
The law, signed by President Vladimir V. Putin in June, has ignited international condemnation and blindsided the Kremlin with the sort of toxic political controversy that officials had desperately hoped to avoid ahead of the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi. The last Olympics on Russian soil, in 1980, was marred by the boycott over the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)6月签署的这部法律，引燃了国际社会的谴责，克里姆林宫对该法引发的激烈政治争议始料未及，这种政治争议正是官员们在2014年索契冬奥会之前极力希望避免的。1980年，在俄罗斯领土上举办的上一届奥运会曾因苏联入侵阿富汗引发的抵制而受到影响。
The furor includes a boycott of Russian vodka in gay bars throughout the West and some calls for a boycott of the Sochi Games altogether. Beyond putting organizers on the defensive, it has cast worldwide attention on the cruel circumstances in which most gay people live in modern Russia.
国际间的愤怒包括，俄罗斯伏特加酒受到整个西方世界的同性恋酒吧的抵制，一些人还呼吁彻底抵制索契冬奥会。除了迫使主办方处于守势外，它还让世人关注现代俄罗斯的大部分同性恋所处的残酷环境。
Despite the breathtaking wealth and vibrant culture in the metropolises of Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia remains a country where discrimination and even violence against gay people are widely tolerated.
如今，莫斯科和圣彼得堡等俄罗斯大城市的财富令人叹为观止，文化也充满活力，但在这个国家，针对同性恋的歧视甚至暴力仍得到普遍容忍。
“What is going on now in Russia contradicts its place in the world,” said Anton Krasovsky, a television anchor who was immediately fired from his job at the government-controlled KontrTV network in January after he announced during a live broadcast that he is gay, saying he was fed up with lying about his life and offended by the legislation.
“俄罗斯正在发生的事情与它在世界上的地位不符，”电视节目主播安东·克拉索夫斯基(Anton Krasovsky)说。1月，他在一档现场直播节目中宣布自己是同性恋，称厌倦了对自己的生活撒谎，而且觉得被这部法律冒犯了，他随即被政府控制的KontrTV解职。
Few gay people in Russia openly acknowledge their sexual orientation, and those who do are often harassed. When some gay people protested the propaganda law by kissing outside the State Duma, the lower house of Parliament, police officers stood by and watched as the demonstrators were doused with water and beaten by antigay and religious supporters of the bill.
在俄罗斯，几乎没有同性恋人士会公开承认自己的性取向，那些这么做了的人往往受到骚扰。一些同性恋曾在议会下院国家杜马(State Duma)外亲吻，以此抗议禁止宣传同性恋的法律，当反对同性恋的人和从宗教立场出发支持该法的人殴打抗议者，并向抗议者泼水时，警察只是在一旁看着。
An overwhelming 88 percent of Russians support the gay propaganda ban, according to a survey conducted in June by the All-Russian Public Opinion Center. A survey conducted in April by the Levada Center found that 35 percent of Russians believed that homosexuality was a disease and 43 percent believed that it was a bad habit, a result of poor parenting or a lack of discipline, or a symptom of abuse.
根据全俄民意研究中心(All-Russian Public Opinion Center)6月做的一项调查，高达88%的俄罗斯人支持禁止宣传同性恋的法律。勒瓦达中心(Levada Center)4月进行的一项调查发现，35%的俄罗斯人认为同性恋是一种疾病，43%的人认为这是一种不好的习惯，是家教不好或缺乏纪律造成的，或是一种虐待症状。
Last month, Patriarch Kirill I, the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, called same-sex marriage “a very dangerous sign of the apocalypse.”
上月，俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)大牧首基里尔一世(Patriarch Kirill I)称同性恋婚姻是一个“非常危险的末日迹象”。
Mixed signals from senior Russian officials over how the propaganda law might be enforced during the Games have undercut assertions by the International Olympic Committee that gay athletes and spectators have nothing to worry about, and have left organizing officials facing harsh criticism and demanding clarifications from the Kremlin.
对于禁止宣传同性恋的法律在冬奥会期间将如何执行，俄罗斯高层官员发出了不统一的信号，这削弱了国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)有关同性恋运动员和观众无需担心的断言，也让主办官员面临严厉批评，并要求克里姆林宫作出澄清。
There have been comparisons to Nazi Germany as host of the 1936 Olympics inside and outside Russia, including one by Jay Leno during an interview with President Obama last week on “The Tonight Show.”
在俄罗斯内外，都有人拿该法和1936年奥运会的东道主纳粹德国做比较，包括上周《今夜秀》(The Tonight Show)节目中杰伊·莱诺(Jay Leno)对奥巴马总统的采访。
“Something that shocked me about Russia,” Mr. Leno told the president. “Suddenly, homosexuality is against the law. I mean, this seems like Germany: Let’s round up the Jews. Let’s round up the gays. Let’s round up the blacks. I mean, it starts with that.”
“俄罗斯的一些事情让我震惊，”莱诺告诉总统。“突然，同性恋成了违法。我的意思是，这看起来有点像（纳粹）德国的做法：让我们把犹太人都抓起来。让我们同性恋都抓起来。让我们把黑人都抓起来。我的意思是，这类事都是这么开始的。”
Mr. Obama, on Mr. Leno’s show and again at a White House news conference on Friday, noted that Russia was not alone in its treatment of gay people, but he denounced the legislation and said he expected Mr. Putin and the Russian government to prevent any discrimination in Sochi.
奥巴马在莱诺的节目中和上周五的白宫新闻发布会上都指出，俄罗斯并非这样对待同性恋人群的唯一国家，但他谴责了该法，并称他期望普京和俄罗斯政府在索契冬奥会期间防止任何歧视行为。
“I have no patience for countries that try to treat gays or lesbians or transgendered persons in ways that intimidate them or are harmful to them,” he told Mr. Leno. At the White House, Mr. Obama said he opposed a boycott of the Games, but added, “Nobody is more offended than me by some of the antigay and lesbian legislation that you’ve been seeing in Russia.”
“我对那些恐吓或伤害男女同性恋或变性人的国家没有耐心，”他告诉莱诺。在白宫，奥巴马表示他反对抵制索契冬奥会，但他补充说，“对于俄罗斯的反男女同性恋立法，我比谁都生气。”
Russian officials say the criticism is unfair and inaccurate. In 1993, Russia repealed the Soviet-era law that made gay sex a crime.
俄罗斯官员称，这种批评既不公平也不准确。1993年，俄罗斯废除了苏联时期把同性性行为定为犯罪的法律。
“This is not about imposing any kind of sanctions against homosexuality,” Mr. Putin said, defending the propaganda law at a news conference in June. “This is about protecting children.”
“这并非是对同性恋施加任何制裁，”普京在6月份的一次新闻发布会上为禁止宣传同性恋的法律辩护时说。“这是为了保护儿童。”
He added: “The law does not in any way infringe on the rights of sexual minorities. They are full-fledged members of our society and are not being discriminated against in any way.”
他补充说：“这部法律并未以任何方式侵犯性少数人群的权利。他们是我国社会的完全民事行为能力人，不受任何方式的歧视。”
Gay rights advocates disagree, saying the law is vague and can be used to arrest anyone who appears to support gay rights.
同性恋权利倡导人士不同意这一说法，称该法措辞模糊，可被用来逮捕任何貌似支持同性恋权利的人。
Critics say Russia’s repression of gay rights is part of a pattern that also includes a tightening of pressure on civil society groups, and steps to limit foreign influences — all seemingly out of sync with Russia’s push to host international events, like the recently completed 2013 World University Games in Kazan and the international track and field championships now under way in Moscow.
批评人士称，俄罗斯压制同性恋权益是一股整体趋势的一部分，其它行动还包括对公民社会团体加紧施压，并采取步骤限制外国的影响，而这一切似乎都与俄罗斯积极举办国际活动的行为背道而驰，比如最近在喀山闭幕的2013年世界大学生运动会(World University Games)以及正在莫斯科进行的世界田径锦标赛。
Beyond Sochi, Russia will hold the World Cup in 2018 and is bidding for the World Expo in 2020. Asked if the gay rights issue might derail the bid, a spokeswoman for the deputy prime minister, Arkady Dvorkovich, noted that Russia was competing with Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, where homosexuality is illegal.
除了索契，俄罗斯还将举办2018年世界杯足球赛(World Cup)，目前还正在申办2020年世博会(World Expo)。在被问到同性恋问题是否可能导致申办失败时，副总理阿尔卡季·德沃尔科维奇(Arkady Dvorkovich)的一名女发言人指出，俄罗斯的竞争对手是阿联酋的迪拜，在那里同性恋是违法的。
Russian gay rights advocates said the outrage in the West was providing new energy and financial support to their still relatively young movement. It is also raising pressure, including fears of increased violence.
俄罗斯同性恋权益倡导者说，西方爆发的愤怒为他们依然相对年轻的运动注入新的能量和资金支持。同时这也给人们带来压力，比如害怕暴力升级。
Aleksandr Smirnov, 39, a freelance journalist, said he was forced to quit his job in the press office of a deputy mayor in Moscow after he was featured with more than two dozen other gay Muscovites in a special issue of Afisha magazine in February. Being gay in Russia means “you are under permanent stress,” he said.
39岁的自由职业记者亚历山大·斯米尔诺夫(Aleksandr Smirnov)说，在《Afisha》杂志2月份的一期特刊对他和另外二十几个莫斯科同性恋进行报道之后，他不得不辞去在莫斯科一个副市长的新闻办公室的工作。他说，在莫斯科身为同性恋意味着“永远都生活在压力之下”。
Rights advocates said that Russia was growing more dangerous for gay people. This year, there have been at least two killings motivated by antigay bias in the country, including the savage beating death in May of a young man in Volgograd who was also sodomized with beer bottles.
权益倡导者表示，对同性恋人士来说，俄罗斯正变得更加危险。今年俄罗斯至少发生了2起因“反同”偏见引发的杀人事件，其中包括5月份伏尔加格勒一名年轻男子被残忍地打死，还被用啤酒瓶鸡奸。
Mr. Smirnov said that even in Moscow and in St. Petersburg, where there are large gay populations, as well as a thriving and visible gay night life that includes several gay bars and clubs, bias was inescapable.
斯米尔诺夫说，即便在莫斯科和圣彼得堡也无法避免这种偏见。这两个大都市有大量同性恋人群，还有几家同性恋酒吧和俱乐部，同性恋夜生活既活跃又明显。
“If you ask gays in Moscow whether they were attacked, or insulted, practically everyone will admit that it happened to him,” he said. “We are just at the very, very beginning of the movement for the rights of gays. And this new law, you know, it seals our mouths and ties our hands and feet.”
他说，“如果你去问莫斯科的同性恋他们有没有被攻击或者是侮辱过，几乎每个人都会承认遇到过这种事情。我们仅仅处在同性恋权益运动刚刚萌发的阶段。而你知道，这部新法律堵住了我们的嘴，捆住我们的手脚。”