A senior member of the Russian Parliament said Saturday that political asylum in Venezuela would be “the best solution” for Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who is on the run from the American authorities.
周六，俄罗斯议会的一名资深议员表示，对于正在躲避美国当局追捕的前情报承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)，委内瑞拉的政治庇护将是他的“最好选择”。
The comments by the Russian lawmaker, Aleksei Pushkov, the chairman of the international affairs committee of the State Duma, the lower house of Parliament, came just a few hours after Venezuela and Nicaragua extended the first firm offers of asylum to Mr. Snowden, who has been holed up at Sheremetyevo Airport in Moscow for nearly two weeks, and they seemed to reflect the Kremlin’s increasing desire to be rid of him.
委内瑞拉和尼加拉瓜率先坚定地表示愿为斯诺登提供庇护几个小时后，俄罗斯议会下院国家杜马(State Duma)外事委员会主席阿列克谢·普什科夫(Aleksei Pushkov)做出了这番评论。斯诺登已在莫斯科谢列梅捷沃机场(Sheremetyevo Airport)藏匿了近两周，这番评论似乎显示，克里姆林宫越来越希望让斯诺登离开。
“Sanctuary for Snowden in Venezuela would be the best solution,” Mr. Pushkov posted on Twitter. “The country has a sharp conflict with the United States. It will not be worse. And he can’t live in Sheremetyevo.”
“对斯诺登而言，去委内瑞拉避难可能是最好的选择，” 普什科夫在Twitter上发帖说，“该国和美国有着强烈的矛盾，反正也不能变得更糟了。而且他不能住在谢列梅捷沃机场。”
In fact, the United States and Venezuela recently began talks toward reconciliation, progress that a senior Obama administration official said Saturday would end if Venezuela sheltered Mr. Snowden, as President Nicolás Maduro said he would, or aided his journey. The official cautioned other nations in Latin America, hinting that relations would worsen if they assisted Mr. Snowden.
实际上，委内瑞拉和美国最近开始就和解展开谈判，但奥巴马政府的一名高级官员周六表示，如果委内瑞拉像其总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)所说的那样，为斯诺登提供庇护或为其行程提供帮助，谈判进程将会终止。该官员还对其他拉美国家发出了警告，暗示称，如果它们为斯诺登提供帮助，双边关系会恶化。
Mr. Pushkov’s comments typically echo the Kremlin’s line and, to that extent, they underscore a crucial point: Russia still has no intention of turning Mr. Snowden over to the United States or impeding his travel to any country willing to shelter him.
普什科夫的评论典型地附和了克里姆林宫的立场，而且在这方面，评论强调了关键的一点：俄罗斯依然不打算将斯诺登移交给美国，或是阻止他前往任何愿意庇护他的国家。
In fact, far more powerful Russian officials, including President Vladimir V. Putin, have suggested that there is no set limit on the amount of time Mr. Snowden can remain in his traveler’s purgatory in the transit zone of the airport, where technically, they say, he has not crossed onto Russia territory. But Mr. Putin has also said that the sooner Mr. Snowden picks a destination and leaves, the better.
事实上，许多有影响力的俄罗斯官员，包括总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，都已暗示，对斯诺登继续以旅客身份待在机场中转区的时间没有限制，他们表示，严格来说，斯诺登在那里不算进入俄罗斯领土。但普京同时也表示，斯诺登越快选择目的地离开越好。
Still, even as the asylum offers from Venezuela and Nicaragua suggested that Mr. Snowden’s sojourn in Russia might be nearing its end, getting to his final destination will not be easy.
虽然委内瑞拉和尼加拉瓜已表示愿意为斯诺登提供庇护，而这表明他在俄罗斯的逗留或许即将结束，但到达他最终的目的地并非易事。
Mr. Snowden and his supporters at WikiLeaks, the antisecrecy group, are now contemplating complications for a more than 6,000 mile flight that are of a magnitude unfathomable to even the most experienced frequent fliers.
斯诺登和他在反秘密组织维基解密(WikiLeaks)的支持者正在认真考虑6000多英里（约合9660公里）的飞行涉及的困难，即便是对经验最丰富的飞行常客而言，这么远距离的飞行也是不可思议的。
The easiest route to Latin America from Moscow would take Mr. Snowden first to Havana, where he could then connect to direct flights either to Caracas, Venezuela, or Managua, Nicaragua. But if he purchases a ticket for a regularly scheduled flight on Aeroflot, the Russian carrier, which Mr. Putin has said Mr. Snowden is free to do at any time, would the United States go so far as to force down a commercial jetliner once it crosses into American airspace, which is part of its normal flight path? And even if the Americans are loath to force down a passenger jet, would Cuba, given a mild thaw in relations with the United States, allow Mr. Snowden to pass through Havana?
从莫斯科到拉丁美洲最简单的路线是，先把斯诺登带到哈瓦那，然后，他可以在那里搭乘前往委内瑞拉加拉加斯或是尼加拉瓜马那瓜的直达航班。但如果他购买的是俄罗斯航空公司(Aeroflot)定期航班的机票（普京已表示过，斯诺登任何时候都可以这么做），一旦飞机进入美国领空，美国会让一架商业客机迫降吗？毕竟美国领空是其正常航线中的一部分。即使美国人不愿迫降一架客机，考虑到与美国关系的缓和，古巴会允许斯诺登取道哈瓦那吗？
If Mr. Snowden and his supporters try to arrange for a private jet, could his benefactors afford one big enough to make the nearly 16-hour flight without refueling, to avoid stopping in a country that would be likely to seize him at the request of the United States? And if a private or government plane is sent to pick him up, would it face the same airspace restrictions that forced the plane of President Evo Morales of Bolivia to land in Vienna on his way home from a conference in Moscow last week?
如果斯诺登及其支持者设法准备一架私人飞机，他的资助者能提供一架足以完成将近16个小时的飞行，而不用补给燃料的飞机，以避免在一个可能会应美国要求逮捕斯诺登的国家停留吗？玻利维亚总统埃沃·莫拉莱斯(Evo Morales)上周在莫斯科参加完会议乘飞机回国时，飞机被迫降落在维也纳，如果相关人士派一架私人飞机或政府飞机去接斯诺登，飞机会面临同样的领空限制吗？
Mr. Morales, still fuming over the diversion of his aircraft, said Saturday that Bolivia would also grant Mr. Snowden asylum “if he asked for it.” Mr. Morales, whose openness to sheltering Mr. Snowden apparently led to the false conclusion that he had smuggled Mr. Snowden onto his airplane, said the decision on asylum was now intended as retaliation.
莫拉莱斯仍对飞机被迫更改航线一事感到十分愤怒，他在周六表示，“如果斯诺登申请庇护”，玻利维亚也会答应他的请求。此前，莫拉莱斯对庇护斯诺登的开放态度似乎引出了一个错误的结论——他曾将斯诺登偷偷带到自己的飞机上。莫拉莱斯表示，该国决定提供庇护是为了进行报复。
“As a fair protest” against the United States and Europe, “we are going to give him asylum if he asks us for it, that American pursued by his countrymen,” Mr. Morales said at a public appearance in a Bolivian village, according to local news reports. “We are not afraid.”
莫拉莱斯在玻利维亚的一个村庄公开露面，根据当地的新闻报道，他当时表示，作为对美国与欧洲的“合理抗议，如果斯诺登申请庇护，我们将会为这个遭到同胞抓捕的美国人提供庇护，我们并不害怕”。
Mr. Morales did not say if Bolivia had received a request from Mr. Snowden, who has apparently applied for shelter in more than two dozen countries. Most of those requests have been rejected. Nicaragua’s president said his country had received a request and would grant it “if circumstances permit it.”
莫拉莱斯没有说明，玻利维亚是否收到了斯诺登的庇护请求，斯诺登似乎已向20多个国家发出了庇护申请。大多数请求都遭到拒绝。尼加拉瓜总统表示，该国收到了斯诺登的申请，并会在“条件允许的情况下”答应他的请求。
State Department officials have been in touch with each of the Latin American nations that have expressed a willingness to harbor Mr. Snowden, the senior administration official said Saturday, and have urged them to expel him if he arrives. 
周六，前述政府高官表示，美国国务院(State Department)的官员已经与所有表示愿意庇护斯诺登的拉美国家取得联系，并敦促他们在斯诺登抵达时对他进行驱逐。
“There is not a country in the hemisphere whose government does not understand our position at this point,” the official said, adding that any aid for Mr. Snowden “would put relations in a very bad place for a long time to come.” The official added, “If someone thinks things would go away, it won’t be the case.”
这名官员说，“在这个半球，没有一个国家的政府不理解我们此时此刻的立场。”他补充表示，任何对斯诺登的帮助“都会致使双边关系在未来很长时间内处于非常糟糕的境地”。他补充说，“有人认为这件事会被逐渐淡忘，但这是不可能的。”
Cuba has not said how it might react if Mr. Snowden arrives in Havana for a connecting flight to Caracas or Managua. It could follow Russia’s lead and treat him as a transit passenger who has technically not crossed onto Cuban territory. But American officials have made clear that they view that as a mere technicality and have urged any government with access to seize him and send him back to the United States.
古巴并没有表明，如果斯诺登到达哈瓦那转机前往加拉加斯或马那瓜，该国可能会做出何种反应。古巴可能会效仿俄罗斯，将斯诺登看作严格说来没有进入古巴领土的过境旅客。但美国官员曾明确表示，他们认为这只是一个技术性细节，已经敦促有机会的国家抓捕斯诺登，并将他遣返回美国。
Mr. Pushkov suggested that the United States was paying a price for its arrogance. “The Snowden case argues that the U.S. attempt to bring the world under the electronic and military-political control is doomed,” he wrote on Twitter. “Action gives rise to reaction.”
普什科夫暗示，美国正在为它的傲慢态度付出代价。“斯诺登案说明，美国试图将世界置于其电子及军政控制之下的举措注定要失败，”他在Twitter上写道，“行动会引发反应。”