A Russian crime ring has amassed the largest known collection of stolen Internet credentials, including 1.2 billion username and password combinations and more than 500 million email addresses, security researchers say.
研究网络安全的人说，一个俄罗斯犯罪团伙积累了已知最大的被盗互联网认证记录集，包括12亿用户名和密码组合，以及超过5亿的电子邮件地址。
The records, discovered by Hold Security, a firm in Milwaukee, include confidential material gathered from 420,000 websites, ranging from household names to small Internet sites. 
这些记录是总部在美国威斯康星州密尔沃基市的安全公司Hold Security发现的，其中包括从42万个网站，既有家喻户晓的大网站，也有互联网上的小站点，收集到的保密材料。
Hold Security has a history of uncovering significant hacks, including the theft last year of tens of millions of records from Adobe Systems. Hold Security would not name the victims, citing nondisclosure agreements and a reluctance to name companies whose sites remained vulnerable. At the request of The New York Times, a security expert not affiliated with Hold Security analyzed the database of stolen credentials and confirmed it was authentic. Another computer crime expert who had reviewed the data, but was not allowed to discuss it publicly, said some big companies were aware that their records were among the stolen information.
这家公司有揭露重大黑客攻击事件的历史，其中包括去年奥多比系统(Adobe Systems)数千万记录被盗的事情。Hold Security表示，不会给出这次受害者的名字，理由是签了保密协议，再就是不愿意公开其网站仍易受攻击的公司名。在《纽约时报》的要求下，一位与Hold Security公司没有关系的安全专家分析了被盗的认证数据库，确认了其真实性。另一位审查了这些数据的研究计算机犯罪的专家表示，一些大公司已经知道他们的认证记录在被盗信息之列，该专家未被授权公开讨论这些问题。
“Hackers did not just target U.S. companies, they targeted any website they could get, ranging from Fortune 500 companies to very small websites,” said Alex Holden, the founder and chief information security officer of Hold Security. “And most of these sites are still vulnerable.”
“黑客的目标不只是美国公司，他们针对任何他们能侵入的网站，包括财富500强企业的，以及非常小的网站，”Hold Security公司创始人兼首席信息安全官亚历克斯·霍尔顿(Alex Holden)表示。“这些网站中的大多数仍易受攻击。”
Holden, who is paid to consult on the security of corporate websites, decided to make details of the attack public this week to coincide with discussions at an industry conference and to let the many small sites he will not be able to contact know that they should look into the problem.
霍尔顿为企业网站的安全性做收费咨询，他决定在本周举行的一次行业会议讨论有关问题的同时，将这些攻击的细节公开，目的是让众多他没能联系上的小网站知道，他们应该检查自己的网站。
Websites inside Russia had been hacked, too, and Mr. Holden said he saw no connection between the hackers and the Russian government. He said he planned to alert law enforcement after making the research public, though the Russian government has not historically pursued accused hackers.
俄罗斯境内的网站也被黑客攻击过，霍尔顿说，他没有发现黑客与俄罗斯政府之间有任何联系。他说，他打算在公布研究结果之后，通知有关执法机构，但俄罗斯政府以前并没有追究过被指控为黑客的人。
So far, the criminals have not sold many of the records online. Instead, they appear to be using the stolen information to send spam on social networks like Twitter at the behest of other groups, collecting fees for their work.
到目前为止，犯罪分子还没有在网上卖出多少被盗记录，而似乎是在其他团体授意之下，用窃来的信息在诸如Twitter等社交网络上发送垃圾邮件，以此收取报酬。
But selling more of the records on the black market would be lucrative.
但是，在黑市上出售更多的记录将会赚到大钱。
While a credit card can be easily canceled, personal credentials like an email address, Social Security number or password can be used for identity theft. Because people tend to use the same passwords for different sites, criminals test stolen credentials on websites where valuable information can be gleaned, like those of banks and brokerage firms.
虽然可以很容易地注销信用卡，但个人身份认证，比如电子邮件地址、社会安全号码或密码，则可用于身份盗用。因为人们往往在不同的网站上使用相同的密码，犯罪分子在更多的网站上试用偷来的认证，从诸如银行和经纪公司这类网站上收集有价值的信息。
Like other computer security consulting firms, Hold Security has contacts in the criminal hacking community and has been monitoring and even communicating with this particular group for some time.
与其他计算机安全咨询公司一样，Hold Security在犯罪黑客社区有联络员，公司一直在监视本文开头提到的这个团伙，甚至与他们通讯，已经有一段时间了。
The hacking ring is based in a small city in south central Russia, the region flanked by Kazakhstan and Mongolia. The group includes fewer than a dozen men in their 20s who know one another personally — not just virtually. Their computer servers are believed to be in Russia.
这个黑客圈位于俄罗斯中南的一个小城市，那个地区分别与哈萨克斯坦和蒙古接壤。该团伙人数不到十几个，都是20几岁的男子，他们彼此认识，是亲身认识，不只是网上认识。他们的服务器据认在俄罗斯境内。
“There is a division of labor within the gang,” Mr. Holden said. “Some are writing the programming, some are stealing the data. It’s like you would imagine a small company; everyone is trying to make a living.”
“这个团伙中有分工，”霍尔顿说，“有人写程序，有人窃取数据。其运作就像你想象中的小公司；每个人都在试图维持生活。”
They began as amateur spammers in 2011, buying stolen databases of personal information on the black market. But in April, the group accelerated its activity. Mr. Holden surmised they partnered with another entity, whom he has not identified, that may have shared hacking techniques and tools.
他们在2011年开始时，干的是业余时间发送垃圾邮件的事，用从黑市上购买的被盗个人信息数据库。但今年4月，这个团伙的活动猛增。霍尔顿猜测，他们开始与另一个团伙合作，他还不知道那个团伙有哪些人，两个团伙也许共享了黑客技术和工具。
Since then, the Russian hackers have been able to capture credentials on a mass scale using botnets — networks of zombie computers that have been infected with a computer virus — to do their bidding. Any time an infected user visits a website, criminals command the botnet to test that website to see if it is vulnerable to a well-known hacking technique known as a SQL injection, in which a hacker enters commands that cause a database to produce its contents. If the website proves vulnerable, criminals flag the site and return later to extract the full contents of the database.
从那时起，这些俄罗斯黑客得以通过僵尸网(botnet)大规模地捕获认证信息，僵尸网指的是由已经被电脑病毒感染的计算机构成的网络，黑客能控制它们。当被感染的用户访问网站时，犯罪分子就下令僵尸网去检验那个网站，看它是否易受一个知名黑客技术的攻击，那个技术就是所谓的SQL注入，黑客通过它下达一个指令，让数据库提供其内容。如果网站被发现是脆弱的，犯罪分子给网站贴上标记，之后回来提取数据库中的全部内容。
“They audited the Internet,” Mr. Holden said. It was not clear, however, how computers were infected with the botnet in the first place.
“他们把这个互联网查了一遍，”霍尔顿说。 但目前还不清楚，计算机最初是如何感染上僵尸网病毒的。
By July, criminals were able to collect 4.5 billion records — each a username and password — though many overlapped. After sorting through the data, Hold Security found that 1.2 billion of those records were unique. Because people tend to use multiple emails, they filtered further and found that the criminals’ database included about 542 million unique email addresses.
截至七月，这些犯罪分子已能够收集到45亿条记录，每条记录包括一个用户名和密码，虽然有许多是重复的。整理了这些数据之后，Hold Security发现，有12亿条记录是唯一的。由于人们一般有几个电子邮件地址，他们对数据做了进一步筛选，发现黑客的数据库中共收录了约5.42亿唯一的电子邮件地址。