WASHINGTON — U.S. spies collected information last summer revealing that senior Russian intelligence and political officials were discussing how to exert influence over Donald Trump through his advisers, according to three current and former U.S. officials familiar with the intelligence.
华盛顿——据三名知情的美国现任和前任官员透露，美国间谍在去年夏天搜集到了一些信息，其中显示俄罗斯高层情报官员和政府官员在讨论如何通过唐纳德·特朗普的助手对他施加影响。
The conversations focused on Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman at the time, and Michael T. Flynn, a retired general who was advising Trump, the officials said. Both men had indirect ties to Russian officials, who appeared confident that each could be used to help shape Trump’s opinions on Russia.
上述官员表示，讨论的焦点集中于时任特朗普竞选团队经理的保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)和给特朗普提供建议的退役中将迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)。两人都与俄罗斯官员有着间接的联系。相关官员似乎十分确信，其中任何一人都可以被用来影响特朗普在俄罗斯问题上的观点。
Some Russians boasted about how well they knew Flynn. Others discussed leveraging their ties to Viktor F. Yanukovych, the deposed president of Ukraine living in exile in Russia, who at one time had worked closely with Manafort.
有些俄罗斯人夸耀自己与弗林关系很熟。也有人讨论要利用他们与维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的关系，这位乌克兰总统已被赶下了台，如今流亡在俄罗斯，他曾经与马纳福特有过密切的合作。
The intelligence was among the clues — which also included information about direct communications between Trump’s advisers and Russian officials — that U.S. officials received last year as they began investigating Russian attempts to disrupt the election and whether any of Trump’s associates were assisting Moscow in the effort. Details of the conversations, some of which have not been previously reported, add to an increasing understanding of the alarm inside the U.S. government last year about the Russian disruption campaign.
上述情报是美国官员去年获得的多条线索之一，当时他们开始调查俄罗斯试图扰乱美国大选的举动，以及特朗普的助手是否在为莫斯科的这项努力提供帮助。这些线索还包括有关特朗普的助手与俄罗斯官员存在直接联络的信息。这些谈话的细节有些是之前不曾被报道过的，它们使外界对美国政府内部就俄罗斯扰乱美国大选一事产生的担忧有了愈发清楚的了解。
The information collected last summer was considered credible enough for intelligence agencies to pass to the FBI, which during that period opened a counterintelligence investigation that is ongoing. It is unclear, however, whether Russian officials actually tried to directly influence Manafort and Flynn. Both have denied any collusion with the Russian government on the campaign to disrupt the election.
情报机构认为，去年夏天收集的信息足够可信，可以转交给联邦调查局(FBI)，后者在那个时期已经开启了一项反情报调查，该调查到现在还在进行中。不过，目前还不清楚俄罗斯官员是否真的曾经试图对马纳福特和弗林施加直接的影响。两人都否认自己在竞选期间曾与俄罗斯政府勾结以扰乱大选。
John Brennan, the former director of the CIA, testified Tuesday about a tense period last year when he came to believe that President Vladimir Putin of Russia was trying to steer the outcome of the election. He said he saw intelligence suggesting that Russia wanted to use Trump campaign officials, wittingly or not, to help in that effort. He spoke vaguely about contacts between Trump associates and Russian officials, without giving names, saying they “raised questions in my mind about whether Russia was able to gain the cooperation of those individuals.”
前中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·布伦南(John Brennan)在周二作证，称去年曾经有一段紧张的时期，当时他开始相信俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)在试图影响美国大选的结果。他说他当时看到有情报信息显示，俄罗斯想利用特朗普的竞选团队成员——不管他们是否有意——帮助达成这个目标。他模糊地谈论了特朗普的助手与俄罗斯官员之间的联系，没有提到具体的名字，只说这“让我产生了疑问，想知道俄罗斯是否能获得这些个人的合作”。
Whether the Russians worked directly with any Trump advisers is one of the central questions that federal investigators, now led by Robert S. Mueller III, the newly appointed special counsel, are seeking to answer. Trump, for his part, has dismissed talk of Russian interference in the election as “fake news,” insisting there was no contact between his campaign and Russian officials.
俄罗斯是否与特朗普的任何一名顾问有过直接的合作，是由新任命的特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)领导的联邦调查人员目前关注的核心问题之一，他们在竭力找到其中的答案。特朗普则对有关俄罗斯干涉美国大选的说法不屑一顾，说这是“假新闻”，还坚称其竞选团队与俄罗斯官员之间没有联系。
The White House, FBI and CIA declined to comment, as did spokesmen for Manafort. Flynn’s attorney did not respond to an email seeking comment.
白宫、FBI和CIA都拒绝置评，马纳福特的发言人也是如此。弗林的律师没有回应时报通过邮件发出的置评请求。
The current and former officials agreed to discuss the intelligence only on the condition of anonymity because much of it remains highly classified, and they could be prosecuted for disclosing it.
前述现任和前任官员在匿名的前提下同意谈论这些情报，因为其中有不少依然属于高度机密，他们可能会因为透露这些信息而受到起诉。
Last week, CNN reported about intercepted phone calls during which Russian officials were bragging about ties to Flynn and discussing ways to wield influence over him.
上周，CNN报道了被窃听到的通话，俄罗斯官员在其中夸耀他们与弗林的关系，还在讨论对他施加影响的办法。
In his congressional testimony, Brennan discussed the broad outlines of the intelligence, and his disclosures backed up the accounts of the information provided by the current and former officials.
在国会作证期间，布伦南讲述了相关情报的大致情况，他透露的信息印证了这几位现任和前任官员的说法。
By early summer, U.S. intelligence officials already were fairly certain that it was Russian hackers who had stolen tens of thousands of emails from the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton’s campaign. That in itself was not viewed as particularly extraordinary by the Americans — foreign spies had hacked previous campaigns, and the United States does the same in elections around the world, officials said. The view on the inside was that collecting information, even through hacking, is what spies do.
至初夏，美国情报官员已经相当确定，是俄罗斯黑客从民主党和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)竞选团队那里窃取了数万封邮件。在这些美国人看来，此事本身没有什么特别不寻常的——官员们表示，外国间谍也曾对以前的竞选活动发起过黑客袭击，美国也在世界各地做着同样的事。内部的观点是，收集信息是间谍的本职工作，哪怕是通过黑客袭击。
But the concerns began to grow when intelligence began trickling in about Russian officials weighing whether they should release stolen emails and other information to shape U.S. opinion — to, in essence, weaponize the materials stolen by hackers.
然而，当有情报逐渐传来，显示俄罗斯官员在权衡是否公布窃取的邮件及其他信息以影响美国舆论，也就是真正把黑客窃取的材料变成武器时，担忧的情绪开始增长。
An unclassified report by U.S. intelligence agencies released in January stated that Putin “ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election.”
美国情报机构今年1月发布的一份非机密报告称，普京“曾在2016年下令开展施加影响的行动，目标就是美国的总统大选”。
Before taking the helm of the Trump campaign last May, Manafort worked for more than a decade for Russian-leaning political organizations and people in Ukraine, including Yanukovych, the former president. Yanukovych was a close ally of Putin.
在去年5月掌舵特朗普的竞选团队之前，马纳福特曾为乌克兰倾向于俄罗斯的一些政治组织与人士效力了十多年，其中就包括乌克兰前总统亚努科维奇，此人是普京的一个亲密盟友。
Manafort’s links to Ukraine led to his departure from the Trump campaign in August, after his name surfaced in secret ledgers showing millions in undisclosed cash payments from Yanukovych’s political party.
与乌克兰的关联导致马纳福特在去年8月离开了特朗普竞选团队，此前外界发现他的名字出现在一些秘密账目中，其中记录了不曾对外界公布的由亚努科维奇政党支付的数百万美元现金。
The Russian government views Ukraine as a buffer against the eastward expansion of NATO and has supported separatists in their yearslong fight against the struggling democratic government in Kiev.
俄罗斯政府将乌克兰看作一个缓冲地带，用以抵制北约东扩，它支持分离主义者与在基辅艰难维持的民主政府进行持续数年的斗争。
Flynn’s ties to Russian officials stretch back to his time at the Defense Intelligence Agency, which he led from 2012 to 2014. There, he began pressing for the United States to cultivate Russia as an ally in the fight against Islamic militants and even spent a day in Moscow at the headquarters of the GRU, the Russian military intelligence service, in 2013.
弗林与俄罗斯官员的关系可以追溯到他于2012年至2014年担任国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)局长的时期。在那里，他开始敦促美国将俄罗斯发展成对抗伊斯兰激进分子的盟友，甚至于2013年在俄罗斯军事情报机构GRU的莫斯科总部待了一天。
He continued to insist that Russia could be an ally even after Moscow’s seizure of Crimea the following year, and Obama administration officials have said that contributed to their decision to push him out of the DIA.
即便是在莫斯科于第二年占领了克里米亚之后，弗林依然坚称俄罗斯可以成为一个盟友。奥巴马政府的官员曾经表示，这是他们决定让他离开国防情报局的原因之一。
But in private life, Flynn cultivated even closer ties to Russia. In 2015, he earned more than $65,000 from companies linked to Russia, including a cargo airline implicated in a bribery scheme involving Russian officials at the United Nations, and a U.S. branch of a cybersecurity firm believed to have ties to Russia’s intelligence services.
但是在私人生活层面，弗林与俄罗斯关系甚至更加紧密。2015年，他从与俄罗斯有关联的公司获利逾6.5万美元，其中包括一家卷入贿赂阴谋的货运航空公司，该事件涉及到数名俄罗斯驻联合国官员，以及一家网络安全公司的美国分公司，后者被认为与俄罗斯的情报机构有关联。
The biggest payment, though, came from RT, the Kremlin-financed news network. It paid Flynn $45,000 to give a speech in Moscow, where he also attended the network’s lavish anniversary dinner. There, he was photographed sitting next to Putin.
不过，其中最大的进项来自由克里姆林宫提供资金的新闻网RT。该机构给弗林支付了4.5万美元，请他到莫斯科发表演讲，弗林还参加了RT奢华的周年纪念晚宴。晚宴上，他被拍到坐在普京旁边。
A senior lawmaker said Monday that Flynn misled Pentagon investigators about how he was paid for the Moscow trip. He also failed to disclose the source of that income on a security form he was required to complete before joining the White House, according to congressional investigators.
一名资深议员周一表示，在有关他此次莫斯科之行所获报酬的问题上，弗林曾经误导五角大楼的调查人员。据国会调查人员透露，在加入白宫前需要填写的一张安全表格上，弗林也没有填写那项收入的来源。
U.S. officials have also said there were multiple telephone calls between Flynn and Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States, on Dec. 29, beginning shortly after Kislyak was summoned to the State Department and informed that, in retaliation for Russian election meddling, the United States was expelling 35 people suspected of being Russian intelligence operatives and imposing other sanctions.
美国官员还表示，弗林与俄罗斯驻美国大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)在去年12月29日打过好几次电话，时间恰好是在基斯利亚克被召至国务院后不久——在那里，基斯利亚克被告知，为报复俄罗斯对美国大选的干涉，美国将驱逐35名被怀疑为俄罗斯情报特工的人员，还会实施其他制裁。
U.S. intelligence agencies routinely tap the phones of Russian diplomats, and transcripts of the calls showed that Flynn urged the Russians not to respond, saying relations would improve once Trump was in office, officials have said.
美国情报机构常常窃听俄罗斯外交人员的电话。有通话记录显示，弗林当时力劝俄罗斯不要做出回应，并表示一旦特朗普上任，两国关系将会改善。
But after misleading Vice President Mike Pence about the nature of the calls, Flynn was fired as Trump’s national security adviser after a tumultuous 25 days in office.
然而，在有关这些通话的性质上误导副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)之后，刚刚上任25天的弗林便被解除了国家安全顾问的职位，结束了他短暂而喧嚣的任期。