BEIJING — Eight years ago, as personal incomes here soared, China Poly Group Corporation, a state-run conglomerate that began life selling weapons for the People’s Liberation Army, decided to venture onto another sort of battlefield — the art market.
北京——八年前，在中国的个人收入迅速增长之际，以替人民解放军售卖武器起家的大型国企中国保利集团公司决定进军另一行业：艺术品市场。
The corporation had already expanded into theaters, sports cars, real estate, even television sitcoms, and the new division, Beijing Poly International Auction, soon joined the others in Poly’s imposing modernist, sand-colored office tower here, where visitors can shop for a painting on the third floor or a missile system on the 27th.
在那之前，这家公司已经扩展到了剧院、跑车、房地产乃至电视情景喜剧等领域，其旗下新成员北京保利国际拍卖有限公司很快便和其他部门一样，进驻保利集团位于北京的这栋宏伟的现代派沙色办公楼。在这里，顾客可以在3层购买画作，也可以在27层购买导弹系统。
In its short life, Poly Auction has risen to become the third-largest auction house in the world, behind Christie’s and Sotheby’s. Its 2012 reported sales totaled nearly $1 billion, and its auction rooms now buzz with the energy of thousands of new consumers eager to buy a piece of their cultural history or invest in the recent art boom.
保利拍卖公司虽然成立不久，但已一跃成为全世界第三大拍卖行，仅居于佳士得(Christie’s)和苏富比(Sotheby’s)之后。公司2012年公布的收入总计近10亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）。在它的拍卖大厅里，数千名新兴消费者跃跃欲试，他们急切地想购得一件能展现本国的文化历史的藏品，或是在最近的艺术品市场繁荣大潮中投资获益。
But while the art market in China remains robust — its $14 billion in sales last year make it the second-largest in the world after the United States — it is also rife with fraud, forgeries and payment defaults that, experts say, are undermining consumer confidence.
然而，中国的艺术品市场虽然依旧繁荣——该市场去年的销售额高达140亿美元，中国由此成为仅次于美国的全球第二大市场——但却充斥着诈骗、赝品和拖欠拍卖款的行为。一些专家表示，这些因素正在削弱消费者信心。
Fearing that buyers will flee the market, government ministries and the China Association of Auctioneers are pushing corrective initiatives, including asking auction houses to report sales that fall through and training experts to better identify forgeries. At first glance, Poly Auction, as a state-backed business that accounts for 11 percent of the country’s auction revenues, would appear to be an ideal place to start. But it is becoming clear that the powerful company, rather than serving as an instrument of reform, may pose a formidable challenge to it. Beyond its 55 percent government ownership, Poly Auction is part of a company with a proud military heritage, expansive business interests and strong ties to China’s highest echelons, all sources of influence that critics say help shield it from encroaching regulations.
因为担心买家逃离中国市场，政府部门和中国拍卖行业协会正在推行一些整顿措施，其中包括要求拍卖公司上报拍卖失败的金额，并对专家进行培训，让他们能更好的甄别出赝品。乍一看，有国企背景且收入占全国拍卖收入11%的保利拍卖公司似乎是引领整顿的理想对象。但有一点已经越来越明显：这家实力雄厚的公司非但不会助改革一臂之力，反而可能会成为改革面临的一个艰巨挑战。毕竟，除了政府持有的55%股份之外，保利拍卖公司还隶属于保利集团。这家集团有着显赫的军方背景和广泛的商业利益，还保有着与中国最高层之间的牢固关系。批评人士称，所有这些影响力都会帮助保利拍卖公司免受逐渐强化的监管的影响。
An industry study found that last year Poly had one of the worst records of buyers who did not pay, a persistent problem in the Chinese art market. When auction houses do not always note these failed transactions, as was the case with Poly, their reported sales figures exceed reality. The study found that Poly’s revenue was one of the most exaggerated among the top houses. And unlike major rivals, Poly has balked in recent years at allowing the auction trade association to publish full details of its sales.
一项行业研究发现，去年，保利拍卖公司是买家不付款问题最严重的拍卖行之一，这也是中国艺术品市场存在的一个顽疾。如果拍卖公司都像像保利这样并不总是通报这些失败的交易，那么它们公布的销售数据就会高于真实数据。这项研究发现，在顶尖拍卖行中，保利是收入最言过其实的公司之一。而且，不同于主要竞争对手，保利近些年不愿让中国拍卖行业协会公布其销售额的全部细节。
Thomas Galbraith, a New York-based art market analyst and expert on the Chinese art world, said Poly’s attitude is a hurdle for those trying to set standards. “Some in the industry and government want to introduce regulation into the market,” he said, “while others see nothing wrong.”
纽约的艺术品市场分析人士、中国艺术界问题专家托马斯·加尔布雷思(Thomas Galbraith)表示，对那些试图设立标准的人而言，保利的态度是个障碍。“行业内部和政府的一些人想在这个市场引入监管，”他说，“而其他人却觉得一切正常。”
Poly has its defenders, even among trade association officials seeking to clean up the market, and company officials say the study and critics are being unfair. “The government has a stricter policy on state-owned enterprises than on private enterprises,” said Zhao Xu, the executive director of the company. Either way, although Poly is just one of more than 350 Chinese art auction houses, its size and reach mean that no meaningful effort to address the irregularities can succeed without its participation.
保利有自己的支持者，部分支持者甚至是试图整顿艺术品市场的行业协会领导。保利拍卖公司的高管表示，前述研究和批评人士有失公允。保利拍卖公司执行董事赵旭说，“政府对国有企业的政策比对私营企业更严格。”但不管怎样，保利虽然只是中国350多家拍卖行中的一员，但它的规模和影响力意味着，如果没有它的参与，任何旨在解决不规范问题的实质性努力都无法成功。
“In the Chinese art market,” said Nancy M. Murphy, an expert on Chinese art law and a lawyer at the Beijing firm Jincheng, Tongda & Neal, “Poly is the 800-pound gorilla in the room.”
中国艺术法律问题专家、北京金诚同达律师事务所(Jincheng, Tongda & Neal)律师南希·M·墨菲(Nancy M. Murphy)说，“在中国的艺术品市场上，保利就是房间里的800磅重大猩猩，没人管得了。”
Poly Auction’s influence in the art world stems in large part from its parent, a three-decade-old company whose founders include several lions of the Communist Party. One founder, Wang Jun, is the son of a close associate of Mao. Another, He Ping, is a former general who is married to the daughter of Deng Xiaoping, who led China for much of the 1980s and 1990s.
在很大程度上，保利拍卖公司在艺术界的影响力源自它有30年历史的母公司，该公司创始人包括中共党内的几个大人物。公司创始人之一王军是毛泽东亲信的儿子。另一创始人贺平曾是将军，是上世纪80、90年代执掌中国多年的邓小平的女婿。
Though Poly Group’s official ties to the military were cut in 1999, it is still staffed by former military officers and led by the relatives of senior Party officials. It still refers to its socialist mission, retains a stylized P from the People’s Liberation Army as its logo and remains involved in arms trading. (In February, the United States imposed sanctions on Poly Technologies, the defense equipment division, accusing it of violating a nonproliferation policy that controls weapons traffic with Iran, Syria and North Korea.)
尽管保利集团同军方的正式联系在1999年被切断，但公司员工中依然有退役军人，公司的领导依然是党内高官的亲属。保利集团依然会提到自己的社会主义使命，公司的标志依然是一个经风格化处理的“P”，取自中国人民解放军英文缩写PLA；依然参与武器贸易。（今年2月，美国对保利集团旗下从事国防设备业务的子公司保利科技有限公司实施制裁，指责其违反了一项防扩散政策。相关政策旨在控制同伊朗、叙利亚和朝鲜进行武器交易。）
In the 1980s, the Poly Group began to reinvest its arms profits in other sectors of the economy, including hotels and office towers. As the Chinese grew wealthier, the corporation branched out into culture and opened theaters and performance halls.
上世纪80年代，保利集团开始把从武器销售中获得的利润投资到其他经济领域，其中包括酒店和办公楼。随着中国人变得越来越富裕，保利集团又进军文化领域，开办了剧院和表演场所。
In 1999, it established a presence in the visual arts when it opened the Poly Museum, stocked with national treasures. Some of these works, now on display in the ninth-floor galleries of its headquarters, have been reclaimed from abroad, an effort that earned Poly considerable good will in a country still harboring sour memories of looting by colonial powers.
1999年，保利集团成立保利艺术博物馆，开始进入视觉艺术领域。这家博物馆收藏的大量国宝，现陈列于集团总部九楼展厅，其中部分藏品是从国外取回的。在这个列强殖民掠夺的心酸记忆挥之不去的国家，此举为保利赢得了相当大的好感。
When Poly entered the auction market a few years later, the sale of high-end Chinese art was largely the preserve of foreign houses operating from Hong Kong and an older, privately owned company, China Guardian. But China’s market was expanding fast — auction sales more than doubled between 2004 and 2005 — and Poly Group, sensing an opportunity, brought in Mr. Zhao, a dealer, as executive director of its new auction business..
几年后，当保利进入拍卖市场时，高端中国艺术品销售基本上被在香港运营的外国拍卖行和历史更久的私营公司中国嘉德垄断。但中国的市场正在快速扩张——在2004年到2005年之间，拍卖销售额翻了一番多——保利集团意识到这个机遇，请来了艺术品经销商赵旭出任新成立的拍卖公司的执行董事。
By 2007, Poly, the upstart, had come to rival Guardian in sales. Its deep pockets meant it could offer consignors cash advances, and the company’s wide web of contacts helped lure the new rich of China to its auction floor, experts say.
2007年，发展迅猛的保利在销售额方面已与嘉德不相上下。专家称，保利雄厚的资本意味着它可以给委托人提供预付金，而它广阔的社交网络也有助于把中国的新贵阶层吸引到公司的拍卖现场来。
“Individual buyers, they recognize us as part of the government,” said Mr. Zhao, who is 44. “They trust us, since we are part of the state-owned enterprise.”
“个人买家都认为我们隶属于政府，”44岁的赵旭说。“他们信任我们，因为我们是国企的一部分。”
Many credit Poly’s ascension to Mr. Zhao’s energetic, personal way of doing business. Associates say he operates his own private club next door to the Poly headquarters, where he wines and dines important collectors, though Mr. Zhao said such meetings are strictly social. In other instances, he has pursued a customer who failed to pay by donning a towel and tracking him down in a sauna.
许多人都认为，保利的迅速发展要归功于赵旭做生意时充满活力而又富有个性的方式。与赵旭相识的人说，他在保利总部旁开了一家私人会所，在这里邀请重要收藏者喝酒吃饭，虽然赵旭说这种会面完全属于社交活动。有一次，他还裹着浴巾，追着一名没有付款的客户来到了桑拿房。
Though Poly has no shortage of state-connected overseers, there is a bustle in Mr. Zhao’s third-floor office that one might expect at a tech start-up, not at an arm of a sprawling, state-owned company with $61 billion in assets. Spare shirts hang in a closet, and paintings and photographs, including several of Mr. Zhao with the former Chinese President Jiang Zemin, line the walls.
虽然保利不乏拥有政府关系的管理者，但在赵旭三层楼的办公室内，那种活跃的场面恐怕是在初创科技公司，而不是一个610亿美元资产的大型国企的子公司所常见的。壁橱里挂着换洗衬衫，墙上则整齐地挂着图画和照片，其中还有几张赵旭和前国家主席江泽民的合影。
Mr. Zhao presides regally, constantly checking his smartphone as aides come and go, some carrying the antiquities and traditional paintings and calligraphy that are the mainstay of the market. At one point, a worker unrolled a scroll in front of his desk.
赵旭像国王一样管理着一切，不停查看自己的智能手机。助手们则是来来去去，其中有人拿着文物、传统书画作品。这些东西都是艺术市场的主要商品。一次，工作人员在他的办公桌前打开了一幅卷轴。
“We will not be able to auction this,” Mr. Zhao declared, waving it away dismissively.
“我们拍不了这个，”赵旭说，挥了挥手让人把卷轴拿走。
“Zhao is like a general,” Yang Bin, a wealthy businessman and art collector who counts Mr. Zhao as a friend, said in an interview.
“赵旭就像个将军，”艺术品收藏者、富商杨斌在一次采访中说。他认为赵旭算是个朋友。
Mr. Zhao personally owns about 18 percent of the auction house, according to company records, with other private investors owning about 27 percent.
公司记录显示，赵旭本人持有保利拍卖公司18%的股份，其他私人投资人所持有的股份在27%左右。
The Poly Group is overseen by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, which monitors 113 of China’s biggest state-run companies. But even experts who specialize in the workings of these companies don’t know just how Poly functions as a corporation, how power is shared internally, to whom its executives are really accountable or how its revenues and benefits are distributed.
保利集团受国有资产监督管理委员会监督，与其他112家大型国企一样。但是，连专门研究这些企业的运作方式的专家都不清楚，保利作为一个企业是如何运营的、公司内部如何分配权力、其管理者该对谁负责，以及它的收益和利润又是如何分配的。
Mr. Zhao said that despite the large state stake in his company, he feels largely autonomous. He operates two private businesses of his own, a gallery and an online auction site. “To work for Poly,” he said, “is to work for myself.”
赵旭表示，虽然公司有着大量的国有股份，但他感觉保利相当独立。他还开了两家私人公司，一个画廊和一个拍卖网站。“为保利工作，”他说，“就是为我自己工作。”
Meg Maggio, who runs a Beijing art gallery and has done consulting for Poly, described Mr. Zhao as an innovative leader. "It took Guardian 20 years to achieve what Poly accomplished in less than 10 years under the strong directorship of Zhao Xu," she said.
北京一家画廊的所有者、曾为保利提供咨询服务的马芝安(Meg Maggio)说，赵旭是一个具有创新精神的领导者。她说，“在赵旭的强力管理下，保利在不到10年的时间里完成了嘉德花20年才完成的事。”
For all of Mr. Zhao’s savvy and influence, though, it is Poly’s relationship with the state and the reach of its affiliated businesses that have fostered its ascension in the art world, experts say. They claim that, because of Poly’s ties to elites in the Chinese government, it enjoys greater freedom in moving cultural relics in and out of the country and more leeway from the tax bureau. Poly also can be more dismissive of recent efforts, led by the trade association, with the of commerce and culture ministries, to reform the Chinese art market, the experts say.
专家说，虽然赵旭懂得如何做生意，也颇有影响力，但是促使保利在艺术界地位上升的还是它与政府的关系，及其姊妹企业的影响力。他们称，正是由于保利与中国的政府精英有联系，它才能让文物更自由地进出中国，在税务方面也享有更大的灵活性，并敢于对相关改革表示出不屑一顾的态度。专家说，目前拍卖行业协会正在牵头，联合商业部和文化部共同改革中国艺术品市场。
“It’s a privileged institution that is more powerful than what we would consider some of the lesser state agencies,” said Tai Ming Cheung, director of the Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation at the University of California, San Diego, and an expert on Chinese state companies.
“它是一家享有特权的机构，在我们眼中比一些较为次要的国家机构权力还大，”加州大学圣迭戈分校(University of California, San Diego)全球冲突与合作研究所(Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation)所长、研究中国国企的专家张太铭（Tai Ming Cheung，音译）说。
Though reported revenues for last year suggest that Poly has eclipsed Guardian, the first major art auction business on the mainland, Guardian has not complained about Poly’s government connections and has some of its own. State-run companies own about 10 percent of Guardian, which has long had a reputation for a more cautious approach to business.
虽然去年的收益报告显示，保利已经超过了中国大陆第一家大型艺术品拍卖公司嘉德，但后者并没有诟病保利与政府的关系，因为它自己也有这种联系。此外，国有企业持有10%左右的嘉德股份。在外界眼中，嘉德在业务方面一直更加小心谨慎。
“Our styles are different,” Kou Qin, Guardian’s director and vice president, said of the two auction houses.
“我们的风格有所不同，”嘉德拍卖行董事副总裁寇勤在提到这两家拍卖行时说。
Poly officials said the company’s power and ties to military elites are often overstated. “We are just a normal business company,” Mr. Zhao said. “We have no P.L.A. backing,” he added, referring to the People’s Liberation Army.
保利的管理人员说，公司的权力以及它与军方高层的联系往往被夸大了。“我们只是一家普通公司，”赵旭说，“我们没有来自解放军的支持。”
There is no question, though, that Poly has not been as compliant as other houses with the industrywide effort to improve the accuracy of sales reporting.
但毫无疑问，保利并未像其他拍卖行那样严格服从业内精神，提高销售业绩报表的准确度。
Auction houses clearly want buyers to pay. But when they don’t — which happens routinely here for reasons that include the buyers’ becoming leery that they’ve purchased a fake — it is in the house’s interest to obscure the problem by treating the defaults as sales. As well as exaggerating revenues, this practice props up prices and promotes the market as being hotter than it is, experts say.
拍卖行显然希望买家能付钱。但是，当买家拒付时——这里经常发生此类情况，原因包括买家担心自己买到的是赝品等等——把违约当做成功交易来掩盖问题，是有利于拍卖行的。专家说，此外，夸大收益还能哄抬价格，使艺术市场看起来比实际情况更加繁荣。
Unlike Guardian and other houses, Poly refused for the past two years to allow the auction association to publish data on the individual works whose sales had not been paid for completely. On top of that, the auction association’s studies ultimately found that Poly is increasingly struggling with a nonpayment problem. In 2012, for example, the association found that, because of nonpayments, only 34 percent of the sales Poly reported for works valued at more than $1.6 million each were actually completed by May of the following year.
与嘉德等拍卖行不同，过去两年里，保利拒绝让拍卖行业协会发布关于尚未支付完成的单件作品的信息。另外，拍卖行业协会经过研究最终发现，保利所面临的拒付问题正变得越来越严重。例如，行业协会2012年发现，因为拒付问题，保利所上报的单价超过千万元人民币的交易中只有34%于次年5月底前完成。
By contrast, Guardian’s payment rate has improved, with 83 percent of sales completed last year, up from 53 percent.
相反，嘉德的付款率出现提高，去年其交易付款率由53%提高到了83%。
Mr. Zhao complained that the association’s analysis is biased, arguing that the statistics are incorrect, since Poly auctions take place later in the year than others, giving it less time to corral recalcitrant payers. In addition, although the study found that two-thirds of the high-end sales were never completed, it also showed that Poly had received at least some money in many of those cases.
赵旭抱怨拍卖行业协会的分析有失偏颇，辩称数据不准确，因为保利的拍卖比别家进行得晚，于是催促不守规矩的买家付款的时间更短。而且，尽管协会的研究发现，保利三分之二的高端销售最终未能完成，但也显示，在其中许多个案中，公司都至少拿到了部分款项。
Poly said it believes in more flexible payment schedules for clients with good credit. Otherwise, it said, it has been dutiful in participating in corrective programs run by the auction association, a position the group did not dispute.
保利表示，公司认为有着良好信誉的客户可获得更灵活的付款期限。除此以外，该公司称自己在其他方面尽到了拍卖行业协会改革计划所赋予的责任。协会对这一表态也并无异议。
“Poly is one of our very important and supportive members,” the association said in a statement.
“保利是我们非常重要的成员之一，一直支持我们的各项工作，”协会的一份声明称。
But Mr. Galbraith, the analyst, said officials from the association and other auction houses have complained to him that Poly shows little interest in overhauling a system under which it has done so well. Mr. Galbraith spoke last spring at the Chinese auction association’s major conference, where problems in the market were a focus. Poly, he said, was represented by a low-level official who did not stay long.
不过，分析师加尔布雷思表示，协会官员和其他拍卖行的高管曾向他抱怨，保利在目前的体系下如鱼得水，对全面改革表现得没什么兴趣。加尔布雷思今年春季在协会的大会上进行了演讲，会议的主题之一即是市场的相关问题。他说，代表保利出席的只是一名低层管理人员，而且没待多久。
“Here is the most important meeting for Chinese auction houses,” he said. “Someone from Poly showed up at some point for the drinks session and then left. Meanwhile, the rest of the room is filled with the C.E.O.s of other auction houses.”
“这是中国拍卖行业最重要的会议，”他说。“保利的不知什么人只在酒会上露了个脸，然后就走了，而房间里满是其他拍卖行的首席执行官。”
Auction houses account for an estimated 70 percent of the art sales in China, compared with roughly 50 percent in the United States, according to Arts Economics, a research company that studies the international market. And the top houses, lavish considerable attention on their customers, more so than their counterparts in the West, according to people who have worked in both settings.
根据分析国际市场的研究公司艺术经济(Arts Economics)的数据，中国艺术品销售额的约70%由拍卖行经手，相比之下，美国为50%左右。在中西环境中均工作过的人士表示，中国那些最大的拍卖行会在客户身上花大量的心血，其程度超过了西方同行。
“Experts are expected to be full-time milkmaids at times,” said Mike Bruhn, a consultant who worked at Guardian for two years as an adviser on international business.
“有时候，专家要当全职保姆，”曾为嘉德做过两年国际业务顾问的咨询师溥文(Mike Bruhn)说。
Satisfying this Chinese thirst for respect and attention can mean an auction house expert might accompany important buyers to exhibitions, or perhaps provide tickets to a sporting event, or even refrain from chasing them if, as so often happens here, they are slow in paying.
为了满足中国人对尊重与关注的渴求，拍卖行专家可能需要陪同重要卖家参加展览，或者提供体育赛事的门票，乃至当延迟付款的常见状况出现时，不要急于去追讨。
Many of the Chinese art market’s problems stem from how young it is, economically speaking. The culture of bidding is still novel, newly wealthy buyers are inexperienced, and the auction houses themselves are figuring things out as they go along. Certainly, the style of auctions at Poly and Guardian, and other top Chinese houses, is distinct from their high-tier counterparts in the West.
中国艺术市场的诸多问题源于其经济上的不成熟。竞拍文化仍属新鲜事物，新近富裕起来的买家经验不足，拍卖行也是在摸索中前行。因此，保利和嘉德等中国大拍卖行的风格必然与西方同行有明显区别。
In New York and London, evening art auctions are discreet, air-kissing affairs. Buyers are typically veteran, elegantly dressed collectors who know one another and signal bids subtly to auctioneers conducting business in soft tones.
在纽约和伦敦，晚场拍卖是低调而高雅的活动。买家通常是着装雅致的资深收藏人士，彼此认识。进行交易时，拍卖师音调柔和，买家轻轻举牌竞拍。
At auctions here, despite the presence of well-trained, white-gloved attendants, casually dressed buyers munch on snacks from paper bags and chat on cellphones, creating a low-level din throughout the bidding. Purchasers of expensive paintings have been known to roll up their canvas, tuck it under an arm and stroll out into the night air.
在中国的拍卖会上，尽管现场的服务人员训练有素、戴着白手套，但买家们穿着休闲，有人大嚼纸袋里的零食、打手机，致使一种不大的嘈杂声贯穿全场。会上曾出现过大价钱拍下画作的买家将画布一卷、夹在腋下，然后走出会场的事情。
The competition for buyers is expected to intensify in coming years with Western auction houses entering the Chinese market more fully. Sotheby’s has formed a joint venture with a state-owned Chinese company and held an auction in Beijing this month. Christie’s has won a license to operate independently in China and this fall held its first auction.
随着西方拍卖行更深地介入中国市场，预计未来几年对买家的争夺将更为激烈。苏富比与一家国企成立了合资企业，并于本月在北京举办了一场拍卖会。佳士得则获准在中国独立经营，在今秋进行了首拍。
Both are significantly larger than Poly in manpower — Sotheby’s has more than five times as many employees worldwide as Poly Auction’s 260 — and carry a reputation for probity which, while hardly ironclad, could be a competitive edge in the fraud-ridden Chinese art world.
在人员规模上，这两家均比保利大不少。比起保利拍卖行的260人，苏富比的全球员工人数是它的五倍以上。而且，它们诚信度较高，虽说并非毫无瑕疵，但在陷阱遍地的中国艺术品市场上，这也许是个竞争优势。
For now, though, both Christie’s and Sotheby’s remain on a tight leash, permitted to auction only watches, wine, jewelry and contemporary Chinese art, not the more lucrative relics and traditional Chinese painting and calligraphy.
可是，佳士得与苏富比目前受到严格限制，获批的拍品仅限于钟表、酒品、珠宝和中国当代艺术品，并不包括利润更丰厚的古董和中国传统字画。
Poly officials, however, speak confidently of their ability to ward off the competition and are focusing instead on their company’s expansion. Last year, Poly staged its first auction in Hong Kong, where the Western houses do significant business, and opened a New York office to help it secure consignments in the United States, celebrating with a party at the Harvard Club. One indication of Poly Group’s ambition is a plan to sell shares in its cultural division on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in the near future.
不过，保利高管言语间对自己赢得竞争的能力颇为自信，目前正在专注于公司的扩张。去年，保利在西方拍卖行的重要市场香港举行首拍，并在纽约设立了办公室，以协助美国的藏品征集工作，而其开张派对的举办地就在哈佛俱乐部(Harvard Club)。从保利集团计划让其文化业分公司近期在香港交易所(Hong Kong Stock Exchange)上市这一点上，可以一窥集团的雄心。
“They don’t want to be one of the great auction houses of China but one of the great auction houses of the world,” said Laura B. Whitman, a specialist in Chinese art formerly with Sotheby’s and Christie’s.
“他们不想只是跻身中国最大的拍卖行之列，而是要跻身世界最大的拍卖行之列，”曾为苏富比和佳士得工作的中国艺术类专家劳拉·B·惠特曼(Laura B. Whitman)说。
Asked in an interview whether the foreign competitors concern him, Mr. Zhao shrugged. To do business in China, with its unique customs and cultural tics, is not as easy as simply setting up shop, he indicated.
采访中，当被问到是否担心外国竞争的时候，赵旭耸了耸肩。他表示，在中国这个有着独特习俗与文化惯例的地方做生意，不是开张就万事大吉了。
“They are not qualified,” he said of Christie’s and Sotheby’s, “to be our rivals for now.”
谈到佳士得和苏富比，他说，“目前来说，它们不足以在国内和我们展开竞争。”