SHANGHAI — The China Poly Group Corporation, a state-run conglomerate that got its start selling weapons to the People’s Liberation Army, has over the past few decades successfully branched into developing real estate, selling sports cars and producing television sitcoms. Now the company’s huge arts and culture division — Poly Culture Group Corporation — is planning an initial public stock offering that could raise up to $330 million and bolster the prospects of the company in the world’s biggest and fastest-growing art and auction market.
上海——过去几十年里，靠向中国人民解放军贩卖武器起家的中国国有企业集团中国保利集团公司成功地把业务扩展到了房地产开发、跑车销售和电视情景喜剧制作领域。现在，该公司庞大的艺术和文化子公司——保利文化集团股份有限公司（以下简称保利文化）——正计划上市募股，本次募股可能筹得多达3.3亿美元（约合20亿元人民币）的资金，增强该公司在全球规模最大、增长最快的艺术和拍卖市场的前景。
By filing this week to sell shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Poly Culture hopes to become an international brand. It already manages dozens of Chinese cinemas, theaters and performance halls, and it competes with the world’s largest auction houses, Christie’s and Sotheby’s, in art sales.
本周在香港证券交易所备案招股的保利文化希望成为一个国际品牌。该公司管理着数十家中国影院、剧院和演出厅，并且正在和全球最大的拍卖行佳士得(Christie’s)和苏富比(Sotheby’s)展开竞争。
“We are very big in the art auction market in mainland China but still have a long way to go to become the biggest auction house worldwide,” the company’s chief executive, Jiang Yingchun, said at a news conference last week, according to Chinese news media.
据中国新闻媒体报道，保利文化首席执行官蒋迎春在上周的新闻发布会上说，“我们在中国内地艺术拍卖市场份额很大，要成为全球最大的拍卖行却还有相当长的路要走。”
Beijing Poly International Auction, a division of Poly Culture, is already the world’s third largest auction house, with about $1 billion in reported sales in 2012.
保利文化旗下的北京保利国际拍卖有限公司已经是全球第三大拍卖行，该公司在2012年公布的销售额约为10亿美元。
Christie’s and Sotheby’s were, until recently, restricted from doing business in mainland China and operated mostly from Hong Kong. Now, Christie’s operates independently in China, and Sotheby’s has a joint-venture partner here. Still, both can deal only in watches, wine, jewelry and contemporary art, not the more lucrative markets of cultural relics, calligraphy and ancient works.
佳士得和苏富比在中国内地一直都受到限制，大部分业务都是在香港运作的，这种情况直到近期才发生改变。目前，佳士得在中国实现了独立经营，苏富比也在中国找到了一家合资伙伴。尽管如此，这两家拍卖行都只能拍卖手表、酒类、珠宝和当代艺术品，不能涉足利润更大的文物、书法和古代艺术品市场。
The initial public offering for a division of Poly is a sign of China’s transformation into a market economy, and the government’s eagerness to develop its cultural organizations to protect and promote Chinese culture at home and abroad. Several other divisions of Poly are already publicly listed, including Poly Real Estate Group. According to the new filing, the Beijing-based Poly Group, will retain 67 percent of Poly Culture’s shares.
保利旗下公司的上市是中国向市场经济转型的一个标志，也标志着政府急于发展文化机构，并在国内外保护和促进中国文化。保利旗下包括保利房地产（集团）股份有限公司在内的其他几家企业都已上市。新提交的申报文件显示，总部位于北京的保利集团将持有保利文化67%的股份。
In the prospectus filed last week, investors were cautioned about the potential risks of investing in Poly Culture, which was formed around 2000.
上周提交的招股书提醒投资者注意投资保利文化的种种潜在风险。保利文化成立于2000年前后。
It, for example, has suffered, as other Chinese auction houses have, from a problem that has plagued the nation’s art market: buyers who bid up prices but then fail to pay for the items after the auction. According to the prospectus, settlement rates on its auctions have declined in recent years. “Although we actively review the outstanding fees and liaise with relevant parties to speed up the collection process,” the company wrote, “there is no assurance we could settle all the amounts from relevant buyers in due course, or at all.”
比如，和中国的其他拍卖行一样，保利文化也面临着一个长期困扰中国艺术市场的问题：推高了价格的买家在拍卖结束后拒绝付款。招股书称，拍卖物品的结算率近年有所下降。“尽管我们积极审查未偿还款项并联络相关方加速收款过程，”该公司写道，“但概无确保我们可如期结算所有相关买家的款项,或根本无法结算相关款项。”
Also, last year the United States imposed sanctions on Poly Technologies, a defense equipment division that American authorities accused of violating the nonproliferation policy that controls weapons traffic with Iran, Syria and North Korea. (The Chinese government has opposed the sanctions and insisted they be lifted.)
此外，美国曾在去年对保利集团旗下从事国防设备业务的子公司保利科技有限公司实施制裁，指责其违反了防扩散政策。该政策旨在控制与伊朗、叙利亚和朝鲜的武器交易。（中国政府已对前述制裁提出抗议，并坚持要求取消制裁。）