The biggest Vogue of the year, the vaunted September issue (832 pages, four pounds, three ounces), is now on the stands. On its cover is arguably the biggest star of the moment, Beyoncé.
本年度最厚的一本《Vogue》——被大肆宣扬的9月刊（832页，4磅3盎司重[约合1.9公斤]）——现在上架了。封面是如今最耀眼的明星：碧昂斯(Beyoncé)。
Among celebrity profiles, Vogue is very nearly the holy grail. Submitting to a top-tier magazine profile means a peek behind the well-guarded curtain, a soul-baring interview plus a few hours gamely spent on publicist-arranged fun. For Vogue, they have fed elephants (Reese Witherspoon), browsed Birkins (Anne Hathaway), even wept, albeit over onions cut in a cooking class (Scarlett Johansson).
在名人介绍方面，《Vogue》几乎算得上圣杯。要向一份顶级杂志交待自己的人生，意味着允许它窥探在严密保护之下的幕后故事，一次袒露灵魂的采访，以及花几小时勇敢地参与公关人员安排的有趣游戏。为了《Vogue》，名人们喂过大象（瑞茜·威瑟斯彭[Reese Witherspoon]），挑选过柏金包（Birkins，安妮·海瑟薇[Anne Hathaway]），甚至哭过，虽然是在烹饪课上因为切洋葱而哭的（斯嘉丽·约翰逊[Scarlett Johansson]）。
It is part of the bargain struck between celebrities and the news media, where face time and a few juicy first-person revelations are traded for a starring role.
它是名人和新闻媒体之间的一项交易，用照片和一些本人的爆料来换取明星地位。
But inside Vogue’s September issue, Beyoncé says not a word.
但是，在《Vogue》杂志的9月刊里，碧昂斯没有说一句话。
The magazine’s photo shoot with her is accompanied instead by a short essay on her star quality by Margo Jefferson, who won a Pulitzer for criticism while at The New York Times. “It was definitely posed to me as … call it a think piece if you want,” said Ms. Jefferson, reached by phone. “I had no contact with her camp.”
杂志中与她照片搭配的是玛尔戈·杰斐逊(Margo Jefferson)撰写的一篇关于她明星品质的短文。杰斐逊在《纽约时报》工作期间曾获得普利策批评评论奖。“在我看来，它完全是……如果你愿意的话，就称它为时事短评吧，”杰斐逊在接受电话采访时说，“我和她的团队没有任何接触。”
This is unusual for Vogue. A review of five years’ worth of cover articles indicates that she is the only celebrity cover star not to submit to some type of interview (and on the occasion of her first Vogue cover, in 2013, she did). When models appear on the cover, as in the case of last September’s issue, they typically do not get the same profile treatment, but even the “Instagirls” of September 2014 — Cara Delevingne, Karlie Kloss, et al. — answered a few questions online. Not only did Michelle Obama agree to an interview when she appeared on the cover in 2013, she even brought along her husband.
对《Vogue》来说，这不同寻常。回顾《Vogue》五年来的封面文章，你会发现，她是唯一一个不接受任何形式的采访的封面明星（2013年她首次登上《Vogue》封面时接受了采访）。模特们上封面时（比如去年9月刊）通常没有同样可以得到介绍的待遇，但是甚至连2014年9月的“Instagram热门模特”——比如卡拉·德莱文涅(Cara Delevingne)和卡莉·克洛斯(Karlie Kloss)等——也在网上回答了几个问题。2013年，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)上封面时不仅同意接受采访，而且还把丈夫带来了。
It may be unusual for Vogue, whose representatives declined to comment, but it is no longer unusual for Beyoncé. At some imperceptible point around 2013 to 2014, she appears to have stopped giving face-to-face interviews. A member of her team told a reporter in May that despite numerous appearances, she had not answered a direct question in more than a year. Her publicist declined to clarify this stance. (When Beyoncé does answer questions, it tends to be in writing or, for TV, taped.)
对《Vogue》来说，这也许不同寻常（该杂志的代表们拒绝对此做出评论），但是对碧昂斯来说，这不再是件稀罕事。在2013年至2014年的某个不易察觉的时间点，她似乎不再接受面对面的采访。今年5月，她团队的一名成员对记者说，尽管她多次露面，但已经一年多没有直接回答问题了。她的公关员拒绝表明她的立场（碧昂斯偶尔回答问题，也是采取书面或电视录像的方式）。
If she is avoiding the news media, it is not avoiding her. Her music scales the charts, and her media domination continues on her terms. In her not-talking mode, she has appeared on the covers of, and in lavish photo shoots, for Time, Out, CR Fashion Book and T: The New York Times Style Magazine. For these magazines, working around a silent star has required dexterity. CR Fashion Book had the poet Forrest Gander “remix” written statements from her into a kind of free verse. Out profiled her team, the long-serving and devoted operators of the Beyoncé machine (and was granted a Q. and A. with her by email).
如果说她在回避新闻媒体，那么新闻媒体没在回避她。她的音乐占据排行榜榜首，她依然在按照自己的主张支配媒体。她以沉默的方式出现在《时代》(Time)、《Out》、《卡里娜·鲁瓦费尔德时尚杂志》(CR Fashion Book)和《纽约时报风尚杂志T》(T: The New York Times Style Magazine)的封面上和大量内文图片中。对这些杂志来说，和沉默的明星打交道需要灵活。《卡里娜·鲁瓦费尔德时尚杂志》请诗人福里斯特·甘德(Forrest Gander)把她的书面声明“改写”成自由诗。《Out》杂志介绍了长期为碧昂斯服务的忠诚团队（她同意通过邮件进行一次问答）。
“In some ways, it made her more present and real than if I’d only been granted a single interview with her,” Aaron Hicklin, Out’s editor and the article’s author, wrote from a vacation abroad.
“从某些角度讲，比起仅仅单独对她进行一次采访，这让她更鲜活、更真实，”《Out》的编辑、那篇文章的作者阿伦·希克林(Aaron Hicklin)接受书面采访时说。当时他在国外度假。
Why has Beyoncé gone mum? Even if the public expects an unreasonable amount of disclosure from its icons, few of her fellow celebrities have followed her lead. She may have concluded that face-to-face interviews are not in her interest. (She keeps an archive of all of her media mentions and all photos of herself.) She occasionally comes off daffy, as when she told GQ in 2013, “I’m more powerful than my mind can even digest and understand.”
为什么碧昂斯开始沉默了？尽管公众疯狂地想获得无穷无尽的偶像消息，但是几乎没有其他名人追随她的做法。也许她发现自己对面对面的采访不感兴趣（媒体对她的所有报道以及她所有的照片，她都有存档）。有时她表现得有些疯狂，比如2013年她对《GQ》杂志说，“我自己比我的头脑所能消化和理解的更加强大。”
Ms. Jefferson said: “She has to be studying how effective her interviews have been so far. She may have decided that they do not contribute as dazzlingly to the portrait of Beyoncé as the other stuff. It’s a perfectly reasonable decision.”
杰斐逊说，“她肯定研究过，到目前为止，她的采访效果如何。她可能认为，与其他方式相比，在塑造碧昂斯的光辉形象方面，采访不够给力。这完全是个合理的想法。”
She added that having seen the HBO special “Beyoncé: Life Is But a Dream,” “I’m not at all surprised. That is a deeply micromanaged documentary.”
她补充说，她看过HBO频道的特别节目《碧昂斯：人生如梦》(Beyoncé: Life Is But a Dream)，“我一点也不意外。那部纪录片做了很多微处理。”
With social media, celebrities can make an end-run around traditional media.
有了社交媒体，名人们可以避开传统媒体。
“People are getting more savvy,” said Jesse Parker Stowell, a vice president at Full Picture, which represents high-profile talent including Heidi Klum and Adriana Lima. “They have their own form of media. They can just put it out on Instagram.” Beyoncé has 43.5 million followers on Instagram; she tends to post mostly photos of herself, many without comment. (She has 14.1 million followers on Twitter, though there, perhaps predictively, she went radio silent in 2013.)
“人们现在更聪明了，”Full Picture公司的副总裁杰斯·帕克·斯托厄尔(Jesse Parker Stowell)说。该公司是海迪·克卢姆(Heidi Klum)和阿德里安娜(Adriana Lima)等名人的代理。“他们有自己的媒体平台。他们可以直接在Instagram上发布照片。”碧昂斯在Instagram上有4350万粉丝。她大多是发布自己的照片，很多都没有注释（她在Twitter上有1410万粉丝，不出所料，从2013年起她停止在Twitter上发帖）。
Others see her choice as empowered. Daphne A. Brooks, a Yale professor who teaches a class on black women and popular music culture that includes Beyoncé’s music (she is on sabbatical, finishing a book that will, in part, discuss Beyoncé), views her inaccessibility as a hard-won privilege, a reclamation of privacy not historically accorded to African-American women.
其他人认为她的选择是一种特权。达芙妮·A·布鲁克斯(Daphne A. Brooks)是耶鲁大学的教授，她教授一门关于黑人女性和流行音乐文化的课程，其中包括碧昂斯的音乐（她正在休假，在给一本书收尾，这本书里有部分篇幅在讨论碧昂斯）。她认为，碧昂斯的难以接近是来之不易的特权，是对隐私权的重新占有——在历史上，非裔美国女性没有过这种权利。
“She’s been able to reach this level of stardom in which she’s managed — in a way that I really think is unique even among other black women entertainers — hyper-visibility and inaccessibility simultaneously,” Professor Brooks said.
“她的明星地位已经很高，能够既保持高曝光率，又难以接近，我真的觉得，甚至在黑人女艺人中，这都非常少有，”布鲁克斯教授说。
She called it “refreshing” to think that Beyoncé’s reticence in the news media would challenge her listeners “to think about the art first” as opposed to fostering a presumption about “getting closer to the entertainer.”
她说，碧昂斯在新闻媒体上的沉默会促使听众“先思考艺术”，而不是形成“更接近艺人”的习惯，这让她感到“振奋”。
Beyoncé, via her spokeswoman, declined to comment.
碧昂斯通过她的女发言人表示拒绝评论。