NEW YORK — New York City on Monday formally asked that the federal government reimburse it for the cost of providing security for President-elect Donald Trump at his New York home and offices, a figure that officials estimated would reach $35 million by the time of Trump’s inauguration on Jan 20.
纽约——周一，纽约市正式请求联邦政府报销其为候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在纽约的住所和办公室提供安全保障的费用。官员估计，到特朗普明年1月20日就职前，这笔费用将达到3500万美元（约合2.6亿元人民币）。
The $35 million figure is based on roughly $500,000 a day in security costs for the period from the presidential election through Inauguration Day, when Trump, a Republican, is expected to move to Washington, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference on Monday that was unrelated to the request.
周一当天，纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在一场与上述请求无关的新闻发布会上表示，3500万美元这个数字是按照从大选一直到就职日期间，每日安保费用50万美元计算得出的。就职后，作为共和党人的特朗普预计会搬去华盛顿。
Securing Trump Tower, where Trump and his family live and where his transition efforts are based, has presented the New York Police Department with “unprecedented” challenges, de Blasio wrote in letters to President Barack Obama and members of Congress.
白思豪在给贝拉克·奥巴马总统和国会议员的信中写道，保护特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)给纽约警察局带来了“前所未有”的挑战。特朗普大厦是特朗普和家人的居住地，也是其过渡团队的总部所在地。
The 58-story tower, on Fifth Avenue just off 57th Street near Central Park, is in an area dotted with major landmarks and crisscrossed by transit stations, delivery trucks and a steady flow of both cars and throngs of sightseeing pedestrians.
58层的特朗普大厦位于第五大道上，紧邻57街，不远处便是中央公园。该地区分布着多处重要的地标建筑，还有大量换乘车站、送货车以及源源不断的汽车和观光的行人。
“It is a high-density neighborhood and street traffic easily obstructs pathways to and from the building, making it profoundly challenging for the NYPD to establish a secure perimeter,” de Blasio, a Democrat, wrote in the letters, noting that the challenges affected not only Trump, but other residents of Trump Tower as well as the crowds that pass nearby.
“那是一个高密度地区，路面交通很容易堵塞进出大楼的道路，导致纽约警察局在安保区域的设置上困难重重，”来自民主党的白思豪在信中写道，并指出相关挑战影响的不仅仅是特朗普，还有特朗普大厦的其他居民以及路人。
The letters did not include figures for the cost of security because, a spokesman for the mayor explained, the request would also include continuing security for Trump after the inauguration and for his wife, Melania, who plans to remain in New York City at least until the couple’s 10-year-old son, Barron, finishes the school year.
信中未提及安保费用的金额。白思豪的发言人解释称，这是因为请求中还包括在特朗普就职后继续为他以及他的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)提供的安保服务。梅拉尼娅打算留在纽约，至少等到他们的10岁儿子巴伦(Barron)学年结束。
In the letter to the president, de Blasio said the federal government has traditionally reimbursed the city for the costs associated with foreign dignitaries and missions and during major national events, like the 2004 Republican National Convention.
在写给总统的信中，白思豪说，联邦政府传统上会报销该市与外国要人和代表团有关的花费，以及全国性的重大活动期间的费用，比如2004年的共和党全国大会。
Neither the White House press office nor a spokesman for Trump’s transition team responded immediately to emails seeking comment on the letters.
白宫新闻办公室和特朗普过渡团队的发言人均未立即回复请求置评的电子邮件。