The phrase “Every day is a new beginning,” scribbled on a giant Post-it note and with a smiley sun below, marks the spirit of Paul Smith.
伦敦——巨大的便签纸上潦草地写着“每一天都是新的开始”，下面画着一个微笑的太阳，这标志着保罗·史密斯(Paul Smith)的精神。
The designer’s words appear on the side of a “compact” (read super-small) room that was the start of a global empire. As a quirky young British boy, he fell off his bicycle 50 years ago, gave up his dream of making cycling his career and started a tiny shop in his native Nottingham, England.
这位设计师的话出现在一个“紧凑的”（意思是“超级小的”）房间的墙上。一个全球帝国就始于这个小房间。保罗·史密斯出生在英国，小时候有点古怪。大约50年前，他从自行车上摔了下来，于是放弃了当自行车手的梦想，在自己的故乡、英国诺丁汉开了一个小店。
The designer’s wacky, whimsical spirit is perfectly captured in “Hello, My Name is Paul Smith,” an exhibition that runs through March 9 at the Design Museum by the River Thames in London. That casual, friendly welcome from a creative force in fashion sums up the essence of the show, which suggests that good design should be available to all and is not an exclusive luxury.
这位设计师古怪、异想天开的精神在“你好，我是保罗·史密斯”(Hello, My Name is Paul Smith)展览中得到了完美体现。该展览在伦敦泰晤士河畔的设计博物馆(Design Museum)举行，将持续到明年3月9日。这位时装界创意大师随意、友好的欢迎概括了展览的精髓，表明优秀的设计应该供所有人享用，而不是仅供某些人享用的奢侈品。
One of the life-size cardboard cut-out images of Paul Smith — a smartly suited figure with a mane of hair and an apparent energy that belies his 67 years — leans forward at the end of a long “runway,” where the walls are covered with colorful images that have inspired him or marked his career.
一个硬纸板做成的真人大小的保罗·史密斯人像竖立在长长的“跑道”尽头，身体微微前倾——他穿着精致的西服，留着长发，看起来精力充沛，完全不像67岁。“跑道”两旁的墙上挂着五颜六色的图片，有的是曾给他带来灵感的东西，有的是他的标志性作品。
It is to the credit of the curator, Donna Loveday, that she has not attempted to streamline the exhibition, any more than the Paul Smith team would dream of reorganizing the manic clutter of objects on his office desk. That re-created surface filled with objects includes the first lumbering iMac computer in translucent green, given to him by his friend Jonathan Ive, now senior vice president of design at Apple. Jumbled around it are the Union Jack; a yellow teapot; banks of books; and a plate of fake spaghetti, balanced on a dress stand above a big black shirt with a digital print that replicates the pasta dish.
值得赞许的是，本次展览的策展人唐娜·洛夫迪(Donna Loveday)没有试图精简这个展览，就像保罗·史密斯的团队一直梦想却从未能够精简他办公桌上的那一大堆东西。展览中仿制的桌面上放满了各种东西，包括第一台笨重的绿色透明的iMac电脑，这是他的朋友乔纳森·伊夫(Jonathan Ive)送给他的，伊夫现在是苹果公司的设计部高级副总裁。电脑四周胡乱放着很多东西：英国国旗；一个黄色的茶壶；账簿；一盘假意大利面，它被小心翼翼地放在一个人体模型上面，人体模型穿着一件宽大的黑色衬衫，衬衫上的数码印花就是模仿这盘意大利面设计的。
As Mr. Smith explains in a film shot during his most recent men’s wear show in Paris and projected at the museum, digital printing is a new way to express his exuberant enthusiasm for pattern and color.
博物馆里播放着他最近在巴黎男装秀上的一段视频，他在视频里解释说数码印花是展示自己对图案和色彩的旺盛热情的一个新方法。
The Paul Smith brand, in which the designer still holds a majority share of 60 percent, is represented in 72 countries and with 14 different collections.
他仍拥有保罗·史密斯品牌60%的份额。该品牌在72个国家出售，有14个不同的系列。
“I wanted to tell the story by taking it back to the shop in Nottingham, trying to give real insight into how Paul works, to take people behind the scenes and to show Paul’s creative approach, where he gets his ideas and inspiration,” said Ms. Loveday, who emphasized Mr. Smith’s ability to maintain his character, personality and humor, which is so often lost when designers sell their businesses or expand into a corporate world.
“我想从诺丁汉的那个小店讲起，尽量让观众来到幕后，看到保罗工作的真实情况，展示保罗的创作方法，展示他想法和灵感的来源，”洛夫迪说。她特别强调史密斯保持自己性格、个性和幽默感的能力——通常设计师们在卖掉自己的公司或者扩张成一个全球公司后就会失去这些品质。
The curator also highlights the many Paul Smith collaborations, which include a Mini car in the same stripes of vivid color found on the designer’s socks and ties. A dash of color on the lining inside a more-or-less sober suit was a way that the designer built British whimsy into his country’s formal tailoring.
这位策展人还特别展示了保罗·史密斯与其他公司的很多合作，包括一辆Mini轿车，车身喷的五颜六色的彩条就是模仿史密斯设计的袜子和领带。在多少有些严肃的西服的内衬上设计一抹亮色是史密斯把英国的奇思妙想和该国正式的剪裁风格相结合的一个方法。
The lively spirit is found in the lineup of clothes — colorful, patterned and for both sexes. That section rather underplays Mr. Smith’s role as a tailor, which is a mistake, because it is the foundation of his work. Ms. Loveday, whose title at the museum is Head of Curatorial, might also have insisted on focusing more firmly on the masculine side. The designer was, after all, the first to interpret the 1960’s “youthquake,” using the British history and tradition of formal wear in a fresh way. Women’s wear came much later and has not had the same resonance.
这种充满活力的精神能在那些展出的衣服上看出来——五颜六色，图案多样，既有男装，也有女装。这部分对史密斯的裁缝角色有点轻描淡写，这么做是不对的，因为剪裁是他作品的基础。洛夫迪在该博物馆的头衔是策展部主任。她可能还坚持重点关注男装。毕竟这位设计师是第一个阐释20世纪60年代“青年动乱”的人，他用新颖的方法阐释英国正式着装的历史和传统。他是在很久之后才开始设计女装的，而且没有引起同样的反响。
The show itself certainly appeals to today’s young generation, with a colorful crowd appreciating everything, including the wall of 70,000 buttons (another Smith signature). Alongside is a screen showing the inside of the new Paul Smith store on Albemarle Street in London, where a wall of dominoes captures once again the designer’s wit and whimsy. Mr. Smith says that he abhors “cookie-cutter” shops and has strived to make each one of his different.
这场展览本身无疑对如今的年轻一代具有吸引力，行行色色的观众来欣赏这里的一切，包括那面挂有70000个钮扣的墙（那些钮扣是史密斯的另一个代表作）。旁边的屏幕上展示的是伦敦阿尔伯马尔街新开的一家保罗·史密斯店的内部，店里墙上的多米诺骨牌再次反映出这位设计师的智慧和奇思妙想。史密斯说他厌恶“千篇一律”的店铺，所以总是努力让他的每家店都不相同。
“Ideas come from anywhere, you can take inspiration from anything,” Mr. Smith states on one of the wall plates. On another he pays homage to his wife, Pauline, a designer trained at London’s Royal College of Art, who, her husband says, “taught me the importance of quality, cut, proportion and an understanding of how clothes are made.”
“想法来自任何地方，你可以从任何东西上获得灵感，”墙上的其中一个盘子上写着史密斯的话。在另一个盘子上，他向妻子波利娜(Pauline)致意。波利娜是一名毕业于伦敦皇家艺术学院的设计师。他说她“让我意识到品质、剪裁和比例的重要性，让我明白衣服是怎么做成的”。
Ms. Loveday says that the exhibition is deliberately targeted at young people, who can be convinced that “if you have a vision and a dream, if you have the will and determination to succeed — you can do it too.”
洛夫迪说该展览是有意面向年轻人的，让他们相信“如果你有远见和梦想，有毅力和决心，你也能获得成功”。
The curator also wanted to underscore how unique Mr. Smith is “as a fashion designer, involved in every aspect of the company,” with his “characteristic humor and wit” at home or overseas.
这位策展人还想强调史密斯是多么独特的“一位时装设计师”，他凭借着“独特的幽默和智慧”，在国内外“参与公司的各个方面”。
That determination is underscored by the Smith-designed bicycles that pepper the exhibition, as if announcing, “I lost my dream in a bike accident, but I built another one.”
展览中随处可见的史密斯设计的自行车集中体现了洛夫迪的这个意图，好像是在宣布：“因为一次事故，我失去了当自行车手的梦想，但是我开创了另一个梦想”。
The Design Museum, founded by the modern design guru Terence Conran, has a landmark 25th birthday next year, which will be followed by a physical move to new premises in West London. This fine Paul Smith exhibition gets to the fundamentals of design and how it can and should be not exclusive, but available to all.
由现代设计宗师特伦斯·康伦(Terence Conran)创立的设计博物馆明年将迎来25岁生日，之后它将搬到伦敦西部的新馆。这场精致的保罗·史密斯展览道出了设计的基本要义，表明设计不应该仅供某些人独享，而应该让所有人看到，以及如何做到这一点。