Wars can present many opportunities to make money, and China’s recently announced “war against pollution” looks to be no exception.
战争可以带来许多赚钱的机会，近来中国的“向污染宣战”也不例外。
Manufacturers of air purifiers, breathing masks and power plant desulphurization technologies have already found ready markets in China’s smog-choked cities. But the latest companies attempting to cash in on the haze are taking things to a new level: pollution insurance.
空气净化器、口罩和发电厂脱硫技术生产商在烟雾弥漫的中国城市已经找到了现成的市场。然而最近一些公司把利用雾霾牟利推向了一个全新的层面：污染保险。
This month, Prime Minister Li Keqiang used his annual speech on the government’s priorities for the year ahead to “declare war against pollution.”
李克强总理本月在年度报告上提出，政府在接下来一年的首要任务是“向污染宣战”。
Priorities to help clean up the air include shutting down 50,000 small coal-fired power plants and taking six million old, polluting vehicles off of the roads, Mr. Li said.
李克强说，净化空气的首要任务包括淘汰5万台燃煤小锅炉和600万辆老旧的、污染排放严重的车辆。
The air quality in China is increasingly an issue for foreign professionals and their employers. Recent years have seen dozens of anecdotal cases of expatriates leaving China or choosing not to relocate to China because of the air. Last week, Panasonic said it would begin offering an air pollution wage premium to its foreign workers based in China.
对外籍员工及其雇主来说，中国的空气质量是个越来越大的麻烦。侨居外国人因空气问题离开中国，或拒绝被调往中国的事例，近年来已经听说了不少。上周松下(Panasonic)说将向驻中国的外国员工提供空气污染薪资津贴。
Enterprising companies are creating new niche markets around the antipollution campaign. On Tuesday, one of China’s most popular travel-planning websites announced a partnership with Ping An Insurance, one of the country’s biggest nongovernment insurers, to offer travelers to China’s major cities insurance against hazy days.
围绕着反污染行动，锐意进取的公司们打造出一系列新的小众市场。周二，中国极受欢迎的一家旅游规划网站宣布和平安保险公司合作，向前往中国主要城市的旅行者提供雾霾保险，后者是中国最大的非政府投资的保险商之一。
People who book trips ranging from three to seven days on Ctrip International’s website can opt to purchase insurance against high air pollution levels for as little as 10 renminbi, about $1.60, per day. If the air quality index exceeds a certain level for two days during their stay, travelers can file to claim up to 50 renminbi per person per day in compensation. So far, the insurance is available for travel to only seven cities, but Ctrip and Ping An plan to expand it.
在携程网预订三至七天行程的人可以选择购买针对严重空气污染的保险，花销最低只要每天10元。在逗留这些城市期间，一旦空气质量指数有两天超过某个水平，旅行者可以申请每人每天50元的赔偿。目前这项保险仅向前往七个城市的旅行者提供，但携程和平安有扩展的计划。
This month, the P.I.C.C. Property and Casualty Company became the first Chinese company to offer an insurance product tied to pollution. On Monday, the company began selling “air pollution health insurance” to residents of Beijing, which offers payouts of as much as 1,800 renminbi when the local air quality index exceeds 300 points for five consecutive days — a level classified as “severely polluted” where the government warns that even healthy people should avoid outdoor activities.
中国人民财产保险公司本月成为第一家提供污染相关保险产品的中国公司。公司于周一开始向北京居民出售“空气污染健康保险”，在空气质量指数连续五天超过300时，可以赔偿高达1800元——300以上被界定为“严重污染”，政府会警告哪怕身体健康的人也要避免户外活动。
So far, P.I.C.C. said it had sold about 3,000 smog insurance packages, which are offered as a one-year contract.
人保财险称目前雾霾险已经售出大约3000份，该险的合同期为一年。
The product ‘‘just went up this week, but business is pretty good,’’ a saleswoman who answered the insurer’s hotline said Wednesday. She added that Beijing’s air quality has been ‘‘O.K. these days, but during wintertime the pollution gets really bad. So there are lots of people buying it.’’
该产品“这星期刚刚上市，但卖得相当好”，人保财险接听热线电话的一位女推销员在周三表示。她还说北京的空气质量“这两天还行，但冬天的污染会非常糟糕。所以还是有很多人会买。”
In addition to the travel smog insurance, Ping An has also started offering a general air pollution insurance product, similar to P.I.C.C.’s. It covers a number of respiratory ailments, including lung cancer, and the policy details do not appear to require a specific link to be proven between the disease and air pollution.
除了旅行雾霾险，平安还开始提供一种和人保财险类似的综合空气污染保险产品。该产品覆盖了包括肺癌在内的多种呼吸道疾病，保单细节似乎没有要求证明疾病和空气污染之间的关联。
Chinese insurers have offered inventive products before, such as a policy for the Mid-Autumn Festival — when families traditionally exchange moon cakes and go out moon-gazing — that pays out if the full moon is not visible.
中国的保险公司此前也曾推出过一些创新产品，比如有一份保单约定，在中秋节这个亲朋好友送月饼、赏明月的节日里，如果看不到满月可以获赔。
Analysts said smog travel insurance is of a similar nature, while the smog health insurance is simply old-fashioned insurance against critical illnesses or death sold under a new label.
分析人士称，雾霾旅行险也带有类似的性质，而雾霾健康险则根本就是老一套的重症或死亡险换了个标签继续卖。