LONDON — Researchers at Britain's Cambridge University have released letters showing how slaves were priced for sale during the 18th century, giving an insight into the wealth and influence behind the pro-slavery lobby at the time.
伦敦——英国剑桥大学 (Cambridge University)的研究人员公布了一些信件，展示奴隶在18世纪如何被标价出售，这让我们有机会深入了解当时支持奴隶制的游说团体背后的财富及影响力。
St. John's College, which released the papers Thursday, said the papers helped show the powerful vested interests that the abolitionists had to fight against — an often-neglected side of the story.
周四公布相关文件的圣约翰学院(St. John's College)表示，这些文件帮助阐明废奴主义者——通常被忽略的一方——所需要对抗的强大的既得利益集团。
The papers date from the 1770s to the 1790s — during the peak of the Trans-Atlantic slave trade in Britain and America — and deal with the operation of a Jamaica sugar plantation run by English businessman William Philip Perrin.
这些文件可以追溯到18世纪70年代至90年代——横跨大西洋的英美奴隶贸易的顶峰时期，涉及牙买加一家由英国商人威廉·菲利普·佩林(William Philip Perrin)开设的糖作物种植园的运营。
One list containing details of slaves to be bought for Perrin's plantation included entries such as "Dick, 25, able field negro, 140 pounds" and "Castile, 45, cook and washerwoman, 60 pounds." The total valuation for 54 male and female slaves came to 5,100 pounds, which researchers say is equal to around 500,000 pounds ($782,000) today.
一份清单展示了佩林种植园购买的奴隶的细节信息，比如“迪克(Dick)，25岁，能下地干活的黑鬼，140磅”、“卡斯蒂勒(Castile)，45岁，会做饭洗衣，60磅”等记录。54名男性及女性奴隶总共价值5100英镑，研究人员称这相当于现在的大约50万英镑（约合500万元人民币）。
"What these letters reveal, apart from a total lack of empathy for their human commodities, is the sheer amount of money involved," said Kathryn McKee, a librarian at the college who acquired the papers. "Many anti-slavery campaigns were grassroots efforts by ordinary people, while the pro-slavery lobby had significant wealth and influence they could use to exert pressure on parliament."
“除了他们对人类商品的冷漠无情，这些信件还揭露了交易所涉及的大量金钱，”获得了这些文件的该学院图书管理员凯瑟琳·麦基(Kathryn McKee)说。“很多废奴运动都是普通民众发起的民间行动，而支持奴隶制的游说团体拥有巨大财富和影响力，他们可以利用这些财富和影响力向议会施压。”
The abolitionists eventually won after a 20-year struggle when Britain passed the 1807 bill to abolish the slave trade.
经过20年的斗争，废奴主义者最终获胜，英国于1807年通过法案，废除奴隶交易。
Images of some of the letters and papers will be available online to researchers and the public as part of a collection of anti-slavery material.
研究人员和公众可以在网上看到其中一些信件和文件的图片，这是一批反奴隶制史料的一部分。