A ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH HARBOR VIEWS IN HONG KONG
香港，一套带有海港景观的一居室公寓
$1.94 MILLION (15 MILLION HONG KONG DOLLARS)
194万美元（1500万港元，约合人民币1191万元）
This one-bedroom apartment is on the 17th floor of Hoi Kung Court, a residential building dating to 1966 in the vibrant Causeway Bay section of Hong Kong. The unit, about 625 square feet, has been completely updated within the last three years, with special attention paid to maximizing storage space.
这套一居室公寓位于香港海宫大厦(Hoi Kung Court)的17层，该住宅楼坐落在香港充满活力的铜锣湾区，其修建时间可追溯至1966年。该套公寓的面积约为625平方英尺（约合58平方米），近三年内完全翻修过一次，重点将存储空间扩展到了最大。
The combined living and dining room is at the front of the apartment, facing panoramic views of Victoria Harbor; the apartment has a narrow balcony. The compact kitchen fits along one wall at the back of the living/dining room. It includes Miele appliances hidden behind white lacquer cabinets as well as black marble counters and a wine fridge. Above the kitchen, a deep storage space next to the ceiling is hidden behind a wall panel. A door beside the kitchen opens to reveal a compartment that can fit all the equipment needed for a home office. The floors are African black hardwood, and air-conditioning units are mounted near the ceilings.
这套公寓的前端是客厅兼餐厅，从那里可以看见维多利亚港的全景，还有一座窄阳台。一间组合厨房沿客厅兼餐厅后方的一面墙壁而建，厨房内有几件美诺(Miele)牌的电器，收纳在几个白漆橱柜里。厨房里还有黑色大理石的台面及一台红酒冰柜。在厨房上方靠近天花板的地方，一面墙板后隐藏着一处非常深的储物空间。这间厨房旁边还有一扇门，通往一处可以装下一间家庭办公室所需的所有设备的隔间。公寓的地面铺的是非洲黑色硬木，另有几台空调架设在靠近天花板的地方。
The bedroom has an entire wall of closets and two windows overlooking the building next door. In the bathroom, a glass panel swings open to shield the rest of the room from the shower, and the black stone floor, grooved to keep it from being slippery, is angled slightly toward a drain. The toilet is in a separate alcove with its own small sink; the main bathroom sink is large and rectangular. A laundry area next to the bathroom has a built-in ironing board that can be folded away.
卧室中有一整面墙的壁橱，还有两扇可以俯瞰旁边那栋建筑物的窗户。浴室里，移动一块玻璃板，就可以挡住浴室的其余部分，而形成一间淋浴房。地面铺的黑色石板刻有凹槽，可以防滑，其角度略微向下水道的方向倾斜。卫生间在一处单独的凹室中，带有单独的小水池；浴室内的常用水池非常大，呈四方形。浴室旁的一处洗衣区内有一个可折叠起来的嵌壁式烫衣板。
Heavy-duty soundproof glass protects the apartment from traffic noise on Gloucester Road, a major artery. During holidays and festivals, the apartment has a front-row view of the spectacular fireworks displays over the harbor. The Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club is across the street, and the neighborhood is famous for its shopping. Nightclubs and other attractions are about a 10-minute walk. The airport is a 30-minute taxi ride from Causeway Bay.
该公寓装有高强度的隔音玻璃，隔绝了主干道告士打道(Gloucester Road)上的交通噪音。节假日期间，从这套公寓可以近距离观看维多利亚港燃放烟花的壮观景色。香港皇家游艇俱乐部(The Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club)就在街对面，而且该社区是众所周知的购物场所。几家夜总会和其它娱乐场所都在步行10分钟的距离之内。从铜锣湾搭乘出租车30分钟可到香港机场。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Two years ago, the government of Hong Kong began phasing in “cooling measures,” to check price growth in the residential real estate market. Simon Smith, the head of research for Savills Hong Kong, said the measures were aimed at foreign buyers. “The measures have definitely had a dampening impact on the market, but mainly at the top end, where foreign buyers were most active,” he added. He said prices in the luxury sector have continued to climb since the measures were put in place, but more slowly. In the market as a whole, prices have fallen nearly 8 percent from their 2013 peak.
两年前，香港市政府开始分阶段实施“降温措施”，来抑制住宅类房产市场中的价格上涨。香港第一太平戴维斯(Savills Hong Kong)公司的研究部主管西蒙·史密斯(Simon Smith)说，这些措施针对的都是外国买家。“这些措施已经对当地市场起到了明显的抑制作用，但范围主要限于高端市场，因为那里是国外买家最活跃的地方，”他补充道。他还说，自从这些措施实施以来，豪华房产市场的价格仍在持续攀升，但速度放缓了。而在整个市场中，房价已从2013年的高峰值下降了近8%。
"Even without the foreign buyers, the local buyers are still able to support the market,” said David Ji, the head of research for Greater China at Knight Frank in Hong Kong.
“即使没有外国买家，香港本地买家仍能支撑这个市场，”位于香港的莱坊国际(Knight Frank)大中华研究及咨询部主管纪言迅(David Ji)说。
Prices in Hong Kong are buoyed by limited supply, and by low interest rates, Mr. Smith said. Mr. Ji added that the unexpected strength of the American economy has also been a factor, since Hong Kong’s currency is pegged to the dollar.
香港的房价由于供给有限且利率很低，一直水涨船高，史密斯说。而且，自从港币与美元挂钩之后，美国经济出人意料的强劲也是一个因素，纪言迅补充道。
Prices are highest on Hong Kong Island. Mr. Ji said the Mid-Levels and Victoria Peak neighborhoods command upward of 40,000 to 50,000 Hong Kong dollars per square foot ($5,161 to $6,451 per square foot at 7.75 Hong Kong dollars to the dollar.) Farther east in Taikoo Shing, prices are lower, 12,000 to 15,000 Hong Kong dollars, or around $1,550 to $1,935, per square foot. Mr. Ji said residential units like this one in Causeway Bay are very rare, because the area is mostly a shopping district. This apartment is priced at about 24,000 Hong Kong dollars, or about $3,100, per square foot.
香港岛(Hong Kong Island)的房价是最高的。纪言迅说，半山(Mid-Levels)和太平山顶(Victoria Peak)的住宅区，每平方英尺的卖价将近4万至5万港元（按照7.75港元对1美元的汇率，约为5161美元至6451美元[约合每平方米人民币34.2万元至42.8万元]）。在更东边的太古城(Taikoo Shing)，房价则较低一些，每平方英尺为1.2万港元至1.5万港元，或1500至1935美元（约合每平方米人民币9.9万元至12.8万元）。纪言迅说，类似铜锣湾的这种住宅单元，目前在市场上非常罕见，因为该区域主要是一处购物区。这套公寓的价格约为每平方英尺2.4万港元，约3100美元（约合每平方米人民币20.6万元）。
WHO BUYS IN HONG KONG
谁在香港买房
In spite of the government’s cooling measures, Hong Kong still sees some foreign buyers from mainland China, the United Kingdom and Russia, said Binoche Chan, a real estate agent with Hong Kong Sotheby’s International Realty, who has the listing. But the number of foreign buyers has been dramatically reduced. In the past, nearly a third of luxury buyers were foreign, Mr. Ji said, but “at the moment most of the buyers are local middle-class people.”
尽管政府实施了降温措施，市场中仍然有一些从大陆来的内地买家，以及从英国与俄罗斯来的外国买家，持有该房源的香港苏富比国际地产公司(Hong Kong Sotheby's International Realty)的房产经纪人陈苑(Binoche Chan)说。但是，外国买家的人数已经大大减少了。过去，有将近三分之一的豪华房产被外国买家购得，纪言迅说，但是“目前，多数买家都是香港本地的中产阶级。”
BUYING BASICS
基本购买条件
Because of the government’s cooling measures, all buyers are now required to pay a double stamp duty of 7.5 percent for a property similar to this one, Ms. Chan said. The only exception is for first-time buyers who are also Hong Kong residents. They pay half as much — 3.75 percent for a property like this one. In addition, buyers who are not residents also have to pay a second stamp duty of 15 percent.
由于政府实施的一些降温措施，现在所有购买类似这套房产的买家，都需支付一项7.5%的双倍印花税，陈苑说。只有那些身为香港居民、且第一次购房的买家可以例外。他们只需付一半税款——也就是说，购买一套类似这样的房产，他们只需支付3.75%的印花税。除此之外，非香港居民身份的买家还必须支付一项15%的第二印花税。
Other transaction costs include legal fees of about 0.1 percent and real estate agent commissions. Ms. Chan said agent commissions are not regulated, but are usually 1 percent for the buyer and 1 percent for the seller.
其它交易成本包括大约0.1%的法律费用，以及房产经纪人的佣金。陈苑说，经纪人佣金不受管控，通常是买家、卖家各收1%。