Not even two months after the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory building claimed more than 1,100 lives, a team of engineers arrived to assess another factory in the center of the capital. It was named Al-Hamra Garments, and it was one of hundreds of factories undergoing post-disaster inspections as Bangladesh sought to prove that its critical apparel industry was safe.
距拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)工厂大楼倒塌并导致1100人死亡不足两月，一组工程师来到孟加拉国首都市中心，对一家名为哈姆拉制衣厂(Al-Hamra Garments)的生产设施展开调查。制衣业对孟加拉国而言至关重要，该国试图证明这个行业是安全的，该厂是接受灾后检查的几百家工厂之一。
But this inspection, conducted in mid-June, was startling. The two engineers discovered that the eight-story factory was partly propped up by temporary cast-iron pillars placed on the ground floor. Several original beams and columns were cracked or disintegrating. And the factory was open for business, with more than 1,000 workers producing clothing for a Bangladeshi apparel conglomerate whose customers include Walmart and Gap.
但是，六月中旬进行的这场调查令人震惊。两名工程师发现，八层高的工厂大楼，部分是由底层地板上树立的临时铸铁柱所支撑。一些原有的梁柱已经破碎或断裂。而且该工厂还在开工，有1000多名工人在为一家孟加拉国服装集团制造服装。该集团的客户包括沃尔玛(Walmart)及盖普(Gap)。
“Considering the severity of the building condition it is recommended that the use of the building be discontinued immediately,” the two inspectors, professors at the country’s top engineering college, concluded in their preliminary assessment report.
这两名工程师是该国顶级工程学府的教授。他们在初步测评报告中称，“考虑到该建筑的恶劣条件，建议即刻停止使用。”
Yet last Saturday, nearly two weeks after the inspection, Al-Hamra Garments was still open. “The factory is fine,” said an administrator, Shafiul Azam Chowdhury, on Saturday afternoon. He said two other inspection teams had concluded that the temporary propping made the building safe enough to continue operations during structural repairs.
但是，上周六，在调查发生近两周后，哈姆拉制衣厂仍在开工。周六下午，工厂管理人员沙菲·阿扎姆·乔杜里(Shafiul Azam Chowdhury)说，“工厂挺好的。”他说，另外两个检查团队的结论是，这种临时的支撑结构使得该建筑在结构性维修期间可以继续安全运行。
“No problem,” he added in a telephone interview.
他在一次电话采访中补充道，“没有问题。”
Bangladesh’s garment industry, now the world’s second-leading clothing exporter, after China’s, is still struggling to recover from the April 24 collapse of Rana Plaza, the deadliest disaster in the history of the industry. To address concerns about unsafe buildings, government officials and industry leaders called for inspections to ensure the structural integrity of the country’s 5,000 garment factories.
孟加拉国是全球第二大衣物出口国，仅次于中国。该国制衣业仍在努力从4月24日的拉纳广场建筑倒塌事件中恢复过来。那是该行业历史上最致命的灾难。为了回应对不安全建筑的担忧，政府官员及行业领导人呼吁进行检查，以保证该国5000家制衣厂的建筑结构的安全性。
But two months after the collapse, the inspections process is disorganized and haphazard, with unclear lines of authority. The Ministry of Textiles is overseeing some inspections. An industry trade group is organizing others. The local development authority in Dhaka is involved, and the country’s top engineering school is playing a central role. Some global brands have also sent inspection teams.
但是，倒塌事件发生两个月后，检查工作仍然杂乱无序，不确定是谁在领导相关事宜。纺织部(Ministry of Textiles)监督一些检查。一个行业贸易组织正在组织其他检查。达卡地方政府的开发部门也介入进来，该国的顶级工程学府在起着核心作用。一些国际品牌也派出了检查团队。
The situation at Al-Hamra Garments underscores the confusion. On Saturday, after a reporter for The New York Times visited the ground floor of the factory and began making inquiries, factory officials and the building’s owner initially defended the decision to remain open. But late that night, company officials reversed course. The next morning, they closed the factory.
哈姆拉制衣厂的情况凸显了该乱象。周六，《纽约时报》一名记者看了工厂的底层并开始进行质疑之后，厂方及该建筑的主人先是为继续开工辩护。但是，当夜晚些时候，工厂方面改变了主意。次日早上，他们关闭了工厂。
“We reviewed all the reports, and our managing director decided to close it,” Mr. Chowdhury said in a later telephone interview. “We were in a dilemma about what was to be done.”
乔杜里在后来的电话采访中说，“我们查看了所有的报告，总经理决定关闭工厂。究竟该怎么做，我们进退两难。”
It was unclear what clothing was being made inside Al-Hamra Garments but the factory is owned by one of Bangladesh’s leading apparel conglomerates, the Palmal Group, which has at least 23 factories and has been praised by Gap and Walmart as a top supplier, according to the company’s Web site.
目前尚不清楚哈姆拉制衣厂生产什么种类的衣物，但是该厂隶属于孟加拉国知名服装企业帕尔玛集团(Palmal Group)。该集团官网称，集团有至少23家工厂，并被盖普及沃尔玛奉为最佳供应商之一。
Inspecting Bangladesh’s garment factories is an acutely complicated task. No government agency is certain of precisely how many such factories operate in Bangladesh, or where they are located. Some inspectors are discovering that building plans filed with government agencies do not always match the actual buildings. Many factories built during the 1980s and 1990s have no architectural drawings at all.
检查孟加拉国的制衣厂是极其复杂的工作。没有一个政府部门能够确定，孟加拉国究竟有多少这种制衣厂，以及它们都分布在哪里。一些检查者发现，政府部门手中的建筑设计图有时与建筑的真实情况并不相符。许多建于二十世纪八九十年代的工厂完全没有建筑图纸。
Critics often blame this lack of regulation on Dhaka’s development authority, known as Rajuk. Last week, the authority’s director told members of Bangladesh’s Parliament that roughly 8,000 buildings in Dhaka, the national capital, lacked required approvals or violated construction codes. In a later interview, the authority’s chief engineer blamed part of the problem on manpower: Rajuk has only 40 inspectors to oversee a million structures in Dhaka.
批评人士常常将监管不力归咎于达卡的开发部门。该部门名叫孟加拉国政府资产发展部(Rajuk)。上周，该部门主任告知议会成员说，首都达卡约有8000座建筑缺少所需的审批，或者违反了建筑规章。在后来的采访中，该部门的首席工程师将该问题部分归咎于人力不足：该部门只有40名检查人员，但是要监督达卡的一百万座建筑物。
“Impossible,” said the chief engineer, Mohammed Emdadul Islam, noting that plans to expand to 240 inspectors are still not sufficient.
“不可能啊，”首席工程师穆罕默德·埃达杜尔·伊斯兰(Mohammed Emdadul Islam)说，他指出，有人计划把检查员人数增加到240名，但这仍然不够。
Following the Rana Plaza disaster, there was a rush to inspect factories. The Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, a leading industry trade group, quickly hired a staff of 10 engineers and announced that 19 factories had been closed during inspections.
拉纳广场事故发生之后，人们开始忙着检查制衣厂。孟加拉国服装制造及出口商协会(The Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association)是该国最重要的服装业贸易组织，它迅速聘请了10位工程师，并宣布在检查过程中关闭了19家工厂。
But the inspection process quickly took on an ad hoc quality. One factory executive complained of submitting to inspections from five different entities. Most factories have not yet been inspected at all. Some brands have sent their own inspection teams, including Tesco, the British retailer, which stopped placing orders at one local garment maker, Liberty Fashions, after the chain’s inspectors found structural problems in the factory — a finding angrily disputed by the factory’s Bangladeshi owner.
但是检查工作很快出现了特别状况。一家工厂的管理者抱怨称，受到了5个不同组织的检查。而大多数工厂根本就没有人去检查。有些品牌则派出了自己的检查组，比如英国的零售商乐购(Tesco)，在该公司的检查员发现一家名为“自由时尚”(Liberty Fashions)的孟加拉制衣厂的建筑物存在结构性问题之后，它已停止向这家工厂下定单——该工厂的孟加拉老板愤怒地就调查结果进行了争辩。
To lead the inspections effort, the Bangladesh government, as well as industry leaders, are leaning on a small group of professors at the country’s leading engineering program, the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology. Yet the school has only 30 professors who are experts in structural and geophysical engineering, meaning the inspections process is moving slowly, especially since the professors must continue with their teaching loads.
在牵头领导检查工作时，孟加拉国政府以及制衣行业领导者都很倚重一个教授小组，他们来自该国首屈一指的工程院校孟加拉工程技术大学(Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology)。但该校仅有30名建筑结构和地球物理工程教授，因此检查进度缓慢，特别是在教授们还必须继续担负教学任务的情况下。
Inspection teams recommended that two buildings be closed because of risk of collapse. The Times later independently confirmed that the Al Hamra Garments building was one of them and obtained a copy of the inspection report from a third party.
检查组建议关闭两座建筑物，因为它们存在倒塌的危险。《纽约时报》后来不仅经过独立渠道证实哈姆拉制衣厂的建筑物正是其中之一，而且还从第三方手中拿到了这份检验报告的复印件。
The building, located in the crowded center of Dhaka, went up about 20 years ago. It is divided into two sections: a five-story wing that contains two cinemas and an eight-story building that houses Al Hamra and another factory, Amazan Garments, also owned by the Palmal Group.
这座建筑物坐落在拥挤的达卡市中心，修建于大约20年前。它分为两个部分：五层高的侧楼内有两个电影院，八层高的主楼内是哈姆拉制衣厂和另一家名为阿玛赞制衣(Amazan Garments)的工厂，后者也隶属于帕尔玛集团。
In response to the Rana Plaza collapse, officials at Palmal say, the company hired a leading local engineering firm, Shaheedullah and New Associates Ltd., to inspect all its factories. When problems were discovered at the Al Hamra site, the Shaheedullah firm determined that the columns supporting about a third of the factory needed reinforcement. The firm then installed the temporary iron props and commenced with repairs.
拉纳广场倒塌事故发生后，帕尔玛的官员表示，他们聘请了当地首屈一指的工程公司沙赫杜拉与新伙伴有限公司(Shaheedullah and New Associates Ltd)来检查该集团旗下的所有工厂。当哈姆拉制衣厂的问题暴露时，沙赫杜拉公司认定支撑该厂大约三分之一建筑结构的立柱需要加固。之后这家公司安装了临时的铸铁支撑物，并开始进行维修。
“Now the above garments factory is safe from immediate collapse under all vertical loads,” the firm stated in a report provided to Al-Hamra officials.
“目前上面的制衣厂是安全的，任何垂直负荷都不会让它立即倒塌。”该公司在一份提交给哈姆拉公司的报告中指出。
On the same day, the Bangladesh garment trade group also sent an inspection team, which surveyed the temporary support beams and concluded that the building was “safe for garment operations” as the structural repairs continued.
就在同一天，前述孟加拉服装贸易组织也派出检查组，对临时支撑横梁进行了检查，并得出结论说这栋楼在其建筑结构继续维修期间“对于制衣业务是安全的”。
But the two-person team from the engineering university made a visual inspection and drew a starkly different conclusion. It found a “large number” of “severely disintegrated” columns. Other columns or beams had serious cracks. It also found design problems, reporting that in some areas, “framing with beams and columns were absent.”
但是，来自工程大学的两人团队在对这栋楼进行了目测检查之后，得出了一个截然不同的结论。他们发现了“大量”“严重解体”的立柱。其他立柱或横梁上则存在明显裂缝。该团队还发现了设计方面的问题，说有些部分“缺乏横梁和立柱结构”。
“The structure of the building needs immediate measures to counter the possible total failure and total collapse of the building,” the university inspection report stated.
“这栋建筑物的结构需要立即采取一些补救措施，避免可能发生的彻底损毁和整体倒塌。”这份大学检查报告指出。
Asked about these findings, the building’s owner, Shafi Bikrampuri, initially argued that the three inspection reports were consistent. “They said it was not dangerous,” he said, indicating he was not aware of the details of the university report. “No danger, nothing.” By Saturday night, though, Mr. Bikrampuri and officials at Al-Hamra Garments had changed their minds. “Because of the conflicting reports and opinions from the multiple organizations involved,” Mr. Chowdhury said in a statement, “we were at a dilemma to reach an educated decision.”
当被问及检查结果时，这栋建筑物的所有者沙非·比克拉姆普里 (Shafi Bikrampuri)最初表示，这三份检查报告的结论是一致的。“他们说这并不危险，”他说，还表明自己并不知道大学检查组报告中的细节。“不危险，没事儿。”但是到了周六晚上，比克拉姆普里和哈姆拉制衣厂管理人员的想法已经发生了变化。“因为不同组织的报告和意见存在冲突，”乔杜里在一份声明中说，“我们进退维谷，不知道怎么做出明智决定”。
On Sunday morning, the factory was closed, with a notice telling workers that wages would still be paid. The company has hired yet another inspection team to conduct a comprehensive assessment.
周日上午，工厂关门歇业了，它给工人发了通知，说工资会照旧发放。现在该公司已经聘请了另一个检查组来进行全面评估。