Never the shrinking violet, whether the mission is erecting the most brash, and expensive, residential tower in a previously overlooked neighborhood or concocting a marketing plan as flamboyant as the tower itself, the Extell Development Company tapped an innovative medium, holography, as the unlikely centerpiece of its sales campaign for the 219-unit One Riverside Park. The experiment did not go unnoticed, nor did the condominium’s units languish unsold.
Extell开发公司(Extell Development Company)从不低调行事，无论它是要在曾被人忽视的社区修建最花哨、最昂贵的高层住宅楼，还是打造一份和高楼同样个性十足的营销计划。为推销河滨公园一号(One Riverside Park)这栋包含219套单元的楼盘，Extell采用了一项颇具创新意义的媒介——全息投影，成为其销售活动中一个不可思议的核心要件。此次大胆尝试没有被人忽视，楼内那些亟待出售的共管公寓也是。
Extell pioneered the persuasive power of virtual views in marketing its Midtown juggernaut, One57, the 90-story glass spike perfectly positioned to capture Central Park vistas. In the case of One Riverside, a 35-story condominium at West 62nd Street that is the fifth and final piece of its Riverside South residential complex off Riverside Boulevard, the company elected to conjure a seductive specter of the evolving riverfront neighborhood with an immersive theatrical production staged by holograms. Leave it to laser beams to tease the eye into believing it sees, and covets, the intangible in the guise of an as-yet unbuilt or unfinished luxury domicile.
Extell在营销其于中城(Midtown)开发的气派楼盘One57——也就是那栋地理位置得天独厚、坐拥中央公园胜景的90层玻璃尖塔时，就率先采用了令人信服的虚拟视图技术。而河滨公园一号是一栋35层的共管公寓楼，位于西62街。在河滨大道(Riverside Boulevard)边的河滨南(Riverside South)住宅楼群中，它是Extell的第五个、也是最后一个大手笔。Extell选择利用全息投影技术，营造出身临其境的剧场观影体验，将正在成形的河滨社区转化为引人入胜的魅影，栩栩如生地展现在“舞台”之上。让激光的光束诱导人们的眼睛，使之相信并憧憬那个待建或在建豪宅的无形幻影。
To help market One Riverside, Extell recruited Musion, a British company with a patented three-dimensional holographic projection system. The system debuted at the Swarovski museum in Austria in 1996 and attained viral Internet status with a “digital resurrection” of the deceased rapper Tupac Shakur at the 2012 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. For One Riverside, Musion programmed a digital celebration of a nascent community.
Extell聘请了一家拥有全息立体投影系统专利的英国公司Musion，助力推销河滨公园一号。该系统1996年首次亮相于奥地利的施华洛世奇博物馆(Swarovski museum)，而后在2012年的科切拉音乐节(Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival)上，“以数字形式复活”了已故说唱巨星图派克·夏库尔(Tupac Shakur)，在网络上引起轰动。而对于营销河滨公园一号，Musion公司通过编程，为这个初生的社区打造了一场数字庆典。
“At Extell, we’re constantly looking for new techniques to help us sell our buildings,” said Tamar Rothenberg, a vice president of marketing. “One57 was quite innovative for the way we displayed real-time views from future units before the tower existed.” According to Ms. Rothenberg, the challenge posed by One Riverside was finding the best way to convey the feel of an entire neighborhood that has been evolving for 10 years but is, with the multifaceted Riverside Center coming to fruition with a park, school and retail, about to take off. “There’s only so much you can do in a sales center, but if a picture is worth a thousand words, we like to think a hologram is worth a million words.” In other words, 3-D beats 2-D.
“在Extell，我们正在不断寻找新技术，来帮助我们销售楼盘，”负责市场营销的副总裁塔马尔·罗滕伯格(Tamar Rothenberg)说，“One57的营销方式很有新意，我们在大楼建成之前就展示了未来的单元实时视图。”据罗滕伯格说，销售河滨公园一号的挑战在于，要寻找最好的方式来传达整个社区的氛围。这个社区在过去十年里一直在发展演化，而今，随着河滨中心(Riverside Center)这个集公园、学校和商铺于一体的多元化开发项目即将落成，整个社区也将开始腾飞。“在销售中心里，你能做的事情只有那么多。但是，如果说一张图片等于一千个词汇，那么我们认为，一张全息影像就相当于百万言语了。”换句话说，3D完胜2D。
The hologram presentation includes an overview of the waterfront neighborhood (the five Extell buildings on the Riverside South plaza unfurl in succession like a time-elapse cocoon-to-butterfly birth simulation), a trip inside the new complex, now 85 percent sold with remaining units ranging from $3.6 to $25 million, and a dazzling display of its amenities.
全息演示包括河滨社区概览（Extell在河滨南广场的五大楼盘将依次展现，仿佛是在模拟一个孕育中的项目随时间变化，化茧为蝶的过程）、新建筑群的内部参观之旅，以及令人目不暇接的配套设施展示。目前，该建筑群有85%的房源已售出，剩下的单元价格都在360到2500万美元（约合人民币2254万到1.6亿元）之间。
“Instead of just saying we have a 75-foot swimming pool, the hologram makes it seem like there’s someone actually swimming across the room,” Ms. Rothenberg said. “It brings everything alive, and it’s all controlled by an iPad.”
“我们不只是干巴巴地宣称，这里会有一个75英尺（约合23米）的泳池，而是通过全息演示让人感觉，仿佛真有个人从房间这头游到了那头，”罗滕伯格说，“这使一切都鲜活了起来，而所有的演示都可以通过一个iPad来控制。”
Karen Duncan, the sales director for One Riverside, said the experience is so immersive “that we’ve had children who were apartment-shopping here with their parents go racing up to the wall to touch what they think they’re seeing — they want to know where the swimmer went. It’s such a big visual that it literally draws people in; it’s like being in a small Broadway theater. The technology is so effective that you can see into every layer of the building, into the duplex penthouse, and see views that are both simulated and real time.”
凯伦·邓肯(Karen Duncan)是河滨公园一号的销售总监，她表示，这种体验的代入感太强，“有些跟父母来看房的孩子甚至跑到墙边去摸墙上的投影，他们以为自己看到的东西是真的——他们想知道那个游泳的人去哪儿了。全息演示的覆盖范围很大，事实上它把人吸了进去；感觉就像在一家小型百老汇剧院里看戏。这项技术的效果太好了，你可以看到建筑物的每一个层面，可以看到复式顶层公寓的内部形制，还可以看到模拟和实时的窗外景观图。”
Visitors who find themselves so thoroughly immersed in the presentation that they opt to buy an actual piece of the picture — occupancy is scheduled to begin in late 2015 — are ushered downstairs to the sales center, where they can study specific floor plans and revisit views and finishes. At the conclusion of the sales cycle, the holograms, which have attracted repeat viewers, will likely be recycled, not retired.
有些访客会被全息演示深深吸引，以至于当即提出购置图中展示的房源——该楼盘预计将于2015年末开始入住。这些访客会被引至楼下的销售中心，在那里，他们可以细细观看特定的楼层平面图，重新查看窗外景观和装修方案。等到销售周期结束时，这些吸引了大量回头客的全息图可能将被再次利用，而不是弃置一旁。
“This is a technology we own now,” Ms. Rothenberg said, “so we can reprogram it.”
“我们现在拥有这项技术，”罗滕伯格说，“所以我们可以对它重新编程。”