President Obama arrived in Beijing on Monday for a meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. He will meet with China’s president, Xi Jinping, at the Great Hall of the People on Wednesday. The occasion is a vital opportunity for the two presidents to reset the relationship between the nations.
奥巴马总统已于周一抵达北京，参加亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)论坛的会议。他将于周三与中国国家主席习近平在人民大会堂举行会晤。这是两位领导人重启双边关系的重要契机。
Since Mr. Obama and Mr. Xi last met, at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, Calif., in June 2013, many analysts have been pessimistic about that relationship. China’s announcement of an “air defense identification zone” in the East China Sea last November, and ongoing disagreements in areas like computer crime, climate change and trade, have contributed to a climate of mistrust.
自奥巴马和习近平上次于2013年6月在加州兰乔米拉的“阳光之乡”(Sunnylands)举行会面之后，很多分析人士对两国关系开始抱持悲观态度。中国于去年11月宣布在东海建立“防空识别区”，同时两国在计算机犯罪、气候变化及贸易等领域仍然存在分歧，这些问题在一定程度上造成了一种互不信任的氛围。
The two presidents should use their meeting on Wednesday to reassure each other about their nations’ strategic intentions and to ease suspicions that each government harbors toward the other. This will require candor on the part of both leaders.
两位领导人应该利用周三的会晤对解除彼此的战略企图进行再保证，并消除两国政府之间的疑虑。这需要两位领导人保持坦率。
Mr. Obama should reiterate that America welcomes the continuing, peaceful emergence of China as a world power and that its strategy is not — as many Chinese analysts claim — to “contain” it. Mr. Xi should reassure Mr. Obama that China is not interested in (much less capable of) pursuing, in Asia, a Chinese version of the Monroe Doctrine, and that it recognizes the constructive role that the American presence can continue to play in East Asia. Above all, they should articulate a vision of global affairs in which cooperation between the United States and China is indispensable to the pursuit of peace and stability.
奥巴马应该重申，美国欢迎中国继续和平崛起，成为世界大国，而美国对中国的策略不是很多中国分析人士所说的“遏制”策略。习近平则应该使奥巴马放心，中国无意（更不用说能够）在亚洲实施中国版的门罗主义(Monroe Doctrine)，中国承认美国能在东亚发挥建设性作用。首先，他们应该勾勒出如下的全球事务愿景：即追求和平与稳定的过程离不开美国和中国的合作。
The two presidents will have the opportunity to cover many areas in the United States-China relationship. They should renew their commitments to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions and cooperating on energy-efficiency technologies. They should discuss ways to align their responses to the Ebola crisis in West Africa.
两位领导人在会谈中将有机会涉及美中关系的很多领域。他们应该重申减少温室气体排放、合作研发节能技术的承诺。并且他们应该讨论联合应对西非埃博拉危机的方法。
Both countries have an interest in promoting reconciliation and reconstruction in Afghanistan, and in collaborating on a vision for peace, stability and prosperity there.
两国都有意推动阿富汗地区的和解与重建，并且通过共同合作，在阿富汗实现和平、稳定与繁荣的愿景。
The rise of the self-proclaimed Islamic State poses serious threats to the stability of the Middle East and, potentially, the global community. China and the United States, which are both victims of terrorist threats and declared enemies of the Islamic State, should spare no effort in bolstering their cooperation in combating this, including possible cooperation on intelligence sharing, through the United Nations and other multilateral forums.
所谓伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的崛起对中东地区的稳定造成严重威胁，也给国际社会带来潜在威胁。中国和美国都是恐怖袭击的受害者，并且都被伊斯兰国视为仇敌，因此两国应该不遗余力地通过联合国和其他多边论坛加强合作，打击伊斯兰国，比如可以在情报共享方面尽可能开展合作。
On North Korea, the two presidents should reaffirm their commitment to denuclearization. They should leave no doubts in the minds of North Korean leaders that a nuclear North Korea will never be accepted by the international community. The only way for North Korea to achieve the goals it holds dear, including security, economic development and normalization of relations with the United States, is for Pyongyang to return to the denuclearization process. The two presidents should work together to revive the stalled six-party talks.
在朝鲜问题上，两位领导人应该重申无核化承诺。他们应该令朝鲜领导人确信，国际社会永远不会接受拥有核武器的朝鲜。平壤回归去核化进程是朝鲜实现该国看重的目标的唯一途径，比如安全、经济发展、朝美关系正常化方面。两位领导人应该携手重启陷入停顿的六方会谈。
Economic ties — long considered the ballast of the United States-China relations — have become less cordial in recent years, in spite of the massive expansion of bilateral trade and investment since China entered the World Trade Organization in 2001. Last month, 51 top American business leaders, led by the U.S.-China Business Council, urged Mr. Obama to make the conclusion of a bilateral investment treaty by 2016 a priority in his meetings with Mr. Xi. Such a treaty would have tremendous benefits for both countries.
长期以来被认为是中美关系“稳定器”的经济关系——近年来也出现了一些问题，尽管自从中国在2001年加入世界贸易组织(WTO)之后，中美双边贸易和投资出现了大规模增长。上月，在美中贸易全国委员会(US-China Business Council)的牵头下，51位美国重量级商界领袖敦促奥巴马，把2016年签订中美双边投资条约作为与习近平会晤的一个优先重点。这一条约将为两国带来巨大利益。
Military-to-military relations, long regarded as the weakest spot in United States-China relations, have in fact grown considerably in recent years. There are now regular visits and exchanges involving military officers of both nations, from all levels. The two militaries have cooperated in counter-piracy operations in the Gulf of Aden, and in joint exercises of humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. Recently, the Chinese Navy participated for the first time in the biennial international maritime exercise led by the United States Pacific Fleet.
中美两军关系长期以来被视为两国关系最薄弱的环节，但近两年获得了大幅改善。现在两国军官在各个层面进行定期互访和交流。双方已在亚丁湾反海盗行动中开展合作，并举行人道主义援助和灾难救援联合演习。不久前，中国海军还首次参加了美国太平洋舰队所牵头举行的两年一度的国际海上演习。
Broadly put, the two presidents must act to arrest and reverse the emergence and deepening of a dynamic in which efforts by either nation to bolster its own security causes the other to feel less secure. The relationship between the United States and China must not become a strategic rivalry, spiraling downward. The two militaries should continue to build mutual understanding and trust, and promote pragmatic cooperation in areas such as United Nations peacekeeping operations and counterterrorism.
更广泛的层面上，两国元首必须采取行动，抑制和扭转中美之间正在出现并不断加深的所谓的“安全困境”，即“一国增加自身安全，导致对方不安全”。中美关系绝不能变成螺旋向下型的战略敌对关系。两军应继续增进相互了解和信任，推进在联合国维和行动和反恐等领域的务实合作。
As China’s economic and military strength continues to grow, and its weight in the Asia-Pacific region increases, Beijing and Washington will have to not only negotiate and renegotiate the boundaries of their power and influence, but also develop a shared understanding of their global roles and responsibilities.
随着中国的经济和军事实力不断增长，以及对亚太地区的影响力越来越大，北京和华盛顿将不得不就双方权力和影响力的边界进行谈判和再谈判，也要发展对于中美在全球的角色和责任的共同理解。