BEIJING — A favorite export from China to its neighbors these days are high-speed rail lines designed to make trade routes in the vast stretches of Asia more accessible and fortify Chinese dreams of turning its southern reaches into the capital of mainland Southeast Asia.
北京——这段时间以来，中国最乐于出口给邻国的东西之一就是高速铁路了，它们旨在让广袤的亚洲地区拥有更加方便的贸易通道，同时也是为了构筑中国的一个梦想：把中国南疆打造成东南亚大陆的首府。
But not everyone wants to be bound so close.
但是，并非每个人都希望拥有如此紧密的联系。
A rail project that would pass through the mountains of northeast Myanmar to the coastal plains on the Indian Ocean would give China a shortcut to the Middle East and Europe. For China, the strategic importance of the proposed line can barely be overstated: The route would provide an alternate to the longer and increasingly contentious trip through the South China Sea.
有一个铁路项目计划穿过缅甸东北部的山区，通向印度洋沿岸的平原，它可以为中国提供一条前往中东和欧洲的捷径。对于中国来说，这条拟建的铁路线具有极其重大的战略意义，因为它可以替代经过南海的通道，后者不仅行程时间更长，而且涉及的争议也越来越多。
However, the Myanmar government viewed the project as a one-sided proposition and put it on the back burner last month, allowing a memorandum of understanding to lapse. It gave no timeline for when it might reconsider.
但是，缅甸政府把该项目视为中国的一厢情愿，上个月，随着一个谅解备忘录的失效，缅甸政府把这个项目搁置到了一边，没有给出重新考虑它的时间表。
“If the project is to be resumed, another memorandum has to be signed,” Ye Htut, the minister of information, said in a telephone interview, “and we have many things to think about before we might do that.”
“如果要重启这个项目，就必须签署另一个备忘录，”缅甸信息部长耶塔(Ye Htut)在接受电话采访时说，“我们要考虑过很多方面之后，才可能签署另一个备忘录。”
It is the second major Chinese project to be suspended in Myanmar, once an unquestioning client of China, since a nominally civilian government took over there three years ago, setting off a tussle for influence in the country between China and the United States and its allies. In 2011, soon after the new government took office, construction of the Chinese-financed Myitsone hydroelectric dam at the headwaters of the Irrawaddy River was suspended.
面对中国，缅甸曾经是一个百依百顺的客户。但自从三年前，一个名义上的文官政府上台，在中国和美国及其盟国之间掀起一场针对缅甸的影响力之争以来，这已是中国在缅甸被暂停的第二个重大项目。2011年，新政府上台后不久，中国在伊洛瓦底江上游资助修建的密松水电站就暂停施工。
The latest setback in Myanmar was not all bad news for China. With considerable gusto, the new junta in Thailand gave approval on Aug. 1 for two Chinese high-speed rail projects that had been shelved because of financing difficulties under the previous government. The head of the junta, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, announced the revival of plans that call for more than 620 miles of rail links from Thailand to Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, by 2021.
对于中国来说，在缅甸遭受的最新挫折也不全是坏消息。8月1日，泰国新的军政府已经相当热切地批准了中国的两个高速铁路项目。之前由于融资困难，这些项目遭到了上届政府的搁置。军政府的首脑巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)将军宣布重启这些计划，到2021年时建好从泰国到云南省省会昆明长逾620英里的铁路。
In all, China wants to build thousands of miles of track that will loop through Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and Malaysia and head south to Singapore as part of a grand trans-Asian rail accord signed by nearly 20 Asian countries in 2006.
总的来说，中国要建设数千英里的铁路，蜿蜒地穿过老挝、柬埔寨、泰国和马来西亚，向南到达新加坡，这是规模盛大的跨亚洲铁路协议的一部分，近20个亚洲国家在2006年签署了这个协议。
“When the people of the mainland countries soon find through the convenience of high-speed rail that Kunming is their closest neighbor but a few hours away, the Yunnan capital will eventually become, in effect, the capital of mainland Southeast Asia,” said Geoff Wade, a visiting fellow at the College of Asia and the Pacific at the Australian National University.
“通过方便的高铁线路，亚洲大陆的各国公众很快就会发现昆明是他们最亲密的邻居，前往那里只需几个小时，云南省会最终会成为东南亚大陆实际上的首府，”澳大利亚国立大学亚太学院(College of Asia and the Pacific at the Australian National University)访问学者杰夫·韦德(Geoff Wade)说。
The gravitational pull of Southeast Asia toward China through its well-developed and relatively inexpensive high-speed rail technology was almost inevitable, despite opposition in some places, Mr. Wade said.
东南亚被中国先进的、相对便宜的高铁技术吸引几乎是不可避免的事情，尽管有一些地方反对它，韦德说。
China’s powerful prime minister, Li Keqiang, serves as chief salesman, showing off exhibits of Chinese-made high-speed tracks and trains wherever he travels in the region. He pitched them to Quentin Bryce, then the governor general of Australia, when she visited Beijing last year, even though Australia, ever more economically tied to China, is a rich country.
中国精明强干的总理李克强是高铁技术的首席推销员，无论他去该地区的哪个地方，都会展示中国制造的高速轨道和列车展品。去年澳大利亚总督昆汀·布莱斯(Quentin Bryce)访问北京时，他也推销了高铁技术，虽然澳大利亚和中国之间的经济联系越发紧密，但却是一个富裕国家。
In Myanmar, the rail project was designed to run close to two Chinese-built pipelines for oil and gas that were completed last year, despite widespread opposition from farmers living along the route. Residents and “social organizations” were also opposed to the railway, Myint Wai, the manager of the ministry of rail transportation, said last month.
在缅甸，中国修建的两条石油和天然气管道已于去年竣工，拟建的铁路项目就在两条管道附近，但遭到了沿线农民的普遍反对。居民和“社会组织”也反对铁路，铁路运输部部长敏怀(Myint Wai)上个月说。
Resentment against China is widespread in Myanmar, and the grass-roots discontent about the rail project was of great concern to the military junta because the generals who retain seats in Parliament face elections in 2015, Myanmar media reports said.
在缅甸，很多人都对中国心怀怨气，而民间对铁路项目的不满引起了军政府的极大关注，因为在议会中占有席位的将军们将要面临2015年的选举，缅甸媒体报道称。
“China has not been the flavor of the month for some time,” said Thant Myint-U, a Myanmar historian.
“中国不受欢迎已经有一段时间了”，缅甸历史学家丹敏-吴(Thant Myint-U)说。
Investment from China has dropped since the height of its influence under the junta, but China remains Myanmar’s top investor, according to Myanmar government figures. And the growth of Chinese exports, which results in a flood of cheap consumer goods, continues to explode, up by more than 50 percent since 2011.
自从中国对缅甸的影响力从鼎盛时期有所下降，来自中国的投资就减少了，但从缅甸政府公布的数字来看，中国仍然是缅甸最大的投资者。而自2011年以来，中国对缅甸的出口增幅已逾50%，持续的大幅增长导致了海量的廉价消费品涌入这里。
The fear of Chinese domination is pervasive. “The China railway project is a national security issue,” said U Than Htut Aung, the chief executive of Eleven Media, a group that publishes newspapers that have campaigned against the project. “Through the Sino-Myanmar railway, China can easily access the Indian Ocean, and Myanmar’s security would be threatened. Because of the rail, Myanmar could become a second Crimea.”
人们普遍担心缅甸被中国牵着鼻子走。“这项中国铁路工程是一个国家安全问题，”十一媒体集团(Eleven Media Group)首席执行官丹图昂(Than Htut Aung)说，该集团下属的几家报纸曾对这个项目加以反对。“经由中缅铁路，中国可以很容易地到达印度洋，缅甸的安全就会遭到威胁。这条铁路可能会让缅甸成为第二个克里米亚。”
Japan, concerned about the economic strength of its archrival, China, across Southeast Asia, is presenting itself as an alternative benefactor. It has increased its investment in the region and targeted Myanmar with its largess, particularly in the rail projects that are so dear to China.
日本把中国视为主要竞争对手，很关注它在整个东南亚地区的经济实力，目前日本展示出一种“中国之外的另一个资助者”的形象，增加了在该地区的投资，并且针对缅甸慷慨解囊，特别是在中国极为看重的铁路项目上。
Japan recently won the contract to upgrade a track, built more than a century ago, from Yangon, Myanmar’s commercial capital, to Mandalay, a job that China was originally scheduled to do. Japan has also offered to modernize Yangon’s decaying urban transit system.
日本最近赢得了一个升级改造铁路的合同，该铁路修建于一个多世纪之前，从缅甸的商业中心仰光通往曼德勒，原本是中国打算开展的一项工程。日本也为仰光破旧的城市交通系统提供了现代化改造服务。
Still, the Chinese have not given up. The Chinese ambassador to Myanmar, Yang Houlan, said at a recent news conference in Yangon that even though the memorandum of understanding on the rail project had expired, China was ready to work with Myanmar at any time.
尽管如此，中国一直没有放弃。中国驻缅甸大使杨厚兰最近在仰光的一次新闻发布会上说，虽然该铁路项目的谅解备忘录已经到期，中国任何时候都愿意与缅方一起合作。
So confident is China that Myanmar will eventually sign up for the project, plans are going ahead to gouge an 18-mile rail tunnel out of the rugged Gaoligong Mountains that straddle the border with Myanmar and serve as the entry point to Yunnan Province and Kunming.
中国非常自信地认为，缅甸最终会签署该项目的协议，因此他们仍在计划进行一个隧道工程，这条18英里长的铁路隧道将贯穿中缅边界上崎岖的高黎贡山脉，成为通往云南省和昆明市的一个门户。