On a lab bench in Philadelphia sits a tiny box lined with nearly invisible nanotubes and gold. A clear plastic pipe runs through it, and a thicket of pins, each sprouting a red or blue wire, protrudes from its end. As air from the pipe wafts over the nanotubes, electrical signals surge out of the box along the wire threads. The whole apparatus is situated near a vial of blood, “sniffing” the air above it through the pipe.
费城一个实验室的工作台上，安放着个特别的小盒子，它的内表面上排布着几乎微不可见的纳米管和黄金，一根透明的塑料管从中穿过，在末端还具有一簇突出的针状物，每根针状物上都伸出红色或蓝色的导线。当空气从塑料管中吹拂向纳米管时，便会有电子信号沿着导线从盒子中涌出。整个装置被放置在一小瓶血液的附近，通过塑料管“嗅探”小瓶上方的空气。
The box, an electronic nose, is a key part of a theory being explored by George Preti, an organic chemist at the Monell Chemical Senses Center, and an interdisciplinary team that includes physicists and veterinarians at the University of Pennsylvania. Preti is an expert on human odors, having studied them for more than 40 years. He has sniffed — both with machines and with his nose — breath, sweat and other secretions in search of answers about why we smell the way we do. This latest project seeks to answer a question others might have never thought to ask: Does ovarian cancer have a smell?
这个小盒子叫做电子鼻，是莫奈尔化学感觉中心(Monell Chemical Senses Center)的有机化学家乔治·普雷蒂(George Preti)以及宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的物理学家和兽医师组成的跨学科团队共同探索的一项理论中的关键部件。普雷蒂是人体气味的专家，他从事该领域的研究已经超过40年。他通过机器或者自己的鼻子嗅闻呼吸、汗液和其他分泌物的气息，并为这些气味的来源寻找答案。这个新兴项目旨在回答一个或许其他人从未想过要问的问题：卵巢癌有气味么？
In modern cancer medicine, doctors tend to rely on advanced imaging techniques and the detection of lumps. The widely acknowledged problem with these methods, though, is that by the time doctors have reason to order a scan or feel something, it’s often too late. Ovarian cancer has usually spread to other organs by the time it’s detected. If it is caught early — which happens only 15 percent of the time, often by accident when doctors are looking for something else — 92 percent of patients live for at least five years. But when it’s caught late, that rate drops to 27 percent. Scent might be a way to get there sooner.
在现代癌症医学中，医生往往依赖于先进的成像技术和肿块探查来进行诊断。不过，众所周知这些方法存在缺陷：当医生认为有理由为患者安排扫描检查或感觉到异物存在时，往往为时已晚。卵巢癌的早期检出率只有15%，而且还通常是医生在查找其他病变时偶然发现的。这些发现较早的患者中有92%可以存活至少五年。但如果发现较晚，检出时癌症已经扩散到了其他器官，患者的五年存活率则会锐减至27%。气味检测有可能可以帮助人们及早发现癌症迹象。
Discovering earlier and better markers for all kinds of cancer, especially in blood, is a priority, said Dr. J. Leonard Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society. Ovarian cancer already has a blood test that has turned out to be not as useful as hoped — giving out both false positives and negatives. A smell-based test would need to perform better.
美国癌症协会(American Cancer Society)的副首席医务官J·莱昂纳德·利希滕费尔德(J. Leonard Lichtenfeld)博士表示，当务之急是为所有类型的癌症找到更好的早期标志物——尤其是在血液中。事实证明，现有的卵巢癌血液测试并不尽如人意——既有假阳性又有假阴性。人们期望基于气味的测试可以有更好的表现。
Diseases can subtly alter people’s fragrance. In the normal course of metabolism, thousands of waste products are swept out in our breath, blood and urine, or simply released into the air above the skin. Metabolic disorders, like diabetes, interfere with the way the body breaks down nutrients and thus make that exhaust especially stinky. People with phenylketonuria (or PKU) tend to smell musty. A faulty or missing digestive enzyme makes people with trimethylaminuria (or TMAU) smell fishy. Untreated diabetics can smell like nail-polish remover: Unable to get energy from sugar, their bodies burn fat for fuel and release acetone as a by-product. (These scents don’t always smell bad; there exists a disorder known as “maple syrup urine disease.”) For Preti, originally from Brooklyn, this makes a subway ride unusually informative. “I often tell people I work with, ‘I bumped into the guy with isovaleric acidemia today.’ ”
疾病可以潜移默化地改变人们身上的气味。在正常的新陈代谢过程中，无数的废物通过呼吸、血液和尿液途径清除，或者干脆通过皮肤释放到周围的空气中。糖尿病等代谢性疾病会扰乱身体分解营养物质的方式，造成难闻的体味。苯丙酮尿症(PKU)患者身上总是带着一股子霉味。三甲基胺尿症(TMAU)的患者因为消化酶缺乏或障碍而散发出鱼腥味。未经治疗的糖尿病患者可能闻起来像一瓶洗甲水：他们的身体无法从糖类中获得能量，只能燃烧脂肪作为燃料，同时释放出副产物——丙酮。（不过，也不是所有的气味都那么糟糕；“枫糖尿病”就是一个反例。）对于来自布鲁克林的普雷蒂而言，这使得他的地铁之旅满载了各种不同寻常的信息。“我经常告诉我的同事：‘今天我碰到了个异戊酸血症患者。’”
Cancer cells, though they don’t alter human metabolism overall, can have altered metabolisms themselves. That means the substances they release could differ from those generated by healthy cells. This idea has been around for decades, but only very recently have biochemical and sensor technology advanced to the point where we can develop portable, hand-held sniffing machines.
尽管癌细胞不会改变人体整体的新陈代谢，但它们可以改变自己的新陈代谢。这就意味着它们释放出来的物质可能与健康细胞的产物有所不同。几十年前科学家已经有此想法，但直到最近，生物化学和传感器技术的进步才使我们有能力开发出便携的手持式嗅探器。
Electronic noses have the potential to detect even very small amounts of molecules — but they need to be programmed to look for specific signs wafting up from patient samples. To do that, A.T. Charlie Johnson, a physicist and collaborator of Preti’s at Penn, has the electronic nose sniff blood samples from both sick and healthy patients. As the air passes through the tube, molecules from the samples alight on strands of sticky DNA attached to the carbon nanotubes, changing the electrical signals running out of the box. The team can look for patterns in the signals and use the difference — if there is one — between cancer samples and healthy samples to create an odor-based ovarian cancer test. (Preti is also attempting to identify the specific molecules present in ovarian cancer sufferers’ blood using a much larger machine called a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer.)
电子鼻可以检出极微量的分子，但它们需要预先接受编程，才能探查从患者样本中飘散出来的特定标志物。为了达到这个目的，普雷蒂在宾夕法尼亚大学的合作者、物理学家A·T·查利·约翰逊(A.T. Charlie Johnson)使用电子鼻分别嗅探了患者和健康人的血液样本。当空气流经塑料管时，样本中的分子停留在附着于碳纳米管上的粘性DNA链上，改变了盒子发出的电信号。研究团队寻找出这些信号中的模式，并利用癌症样本和健康样本间的差异——如果存在的话——创建出基于气味的卵巢癌测试。（此外，普雷蒂还在尝试利用一种名为气相色谱-质谱联用仪[gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer]的大型仪器来识别存在于卵巢癌患者血液中的特殊分子。）
A work in progress, the electronic nose is, for now, an example of how modern medicine can look for answers in unusual places. The impetus that finally pushed Preti and his team to seriously investigate the possibility of cancer detection by smell traces its roots to a dog. In 1989, a letter published in The Lancet reported that a woman had come into the doctor’s office to have a mole looked at. She hadn’t noticed it until her collie-Doberman mix began to sniff the spot intently — even through her pants — and tried to bite it off when she wore shorts. The mole turned out to be an early-stage malignant melanoma, inspiring researchers to test whether dogs, whose smell machinery is at least 10,000 times as sensitive as ours, can tell healthy samples from cancerous ones.
目前电子鼻技术仍处于发展阶段，但我们可以将它看做现代医学如何在不寻常之处寻找答案的一个范例。普雷蒂和他的团队会认真地研究通过嗅觉检测癌症的可能性，最初的原动力是一项关于狗的发现。1989年，《柳叶刀》(The Lancet)上发表的一封来信中报道，一名妇女来到医生的办公室来检查她身上的一颗痣。一开始，她完全没有注意到它，直到她的牧羊犬-杜宾混种犬总是用鼻子去嗅那里（即使她穿着长裤），在她穿短裤时甚至会试图将这个异物咬下来，她才觉得不对劲。经过诊断，这颗痣居然是一个早期恶性黑色素瘤！这个病例启发了研究人员——考虑到犬类的嗅觉至少比人类灵敏10000倍，人们开始就它们能否区分出健康样本和癌变样本进行试验。
The results from the dog tests have been inconclusive, but to Preti, who has mulled the idea that hidden cancers could be detected from smell molecules since the 1970s, they suggested that there was a real possibility for a new diagnostic. “We think that they’re present very early in the carcinoma process,” Preti said of the scents. “The main question is: Can we be as sensitive as the dogs in picking these things up?”
虽然上述犬类试验尚未获得足以定论的结果，但对于自上世纪70年代起就在私下里琢磨能不能通过气味分子来检测癌症的普雷蒂而言，这表明以气味作为一种新型诊断方法具有现实可行性。“我们认为，肿瘤在早期阶段就可以产生特殊的气味，”普雷蒂说。“主要问题在于：我们能否像狗一样灵敏地发现它们？”