A particle that barely ranks as a footnote in a physics text may be about to lift the cleanup of the stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex in Japan over a crucial obstacle.
对于遭受震灾的日本福岛第一核电站来说，一种名不见经传的粒子，可能会扫除其清理工作中的一大障碍。
Inside the complex, there are three wrecked reactor cores, twisted masses of hundreds of tons of highly radioactive uranium, plutonium, cesium and strontium. After the meltdown, which followed a tsunami and earthquake in 2011, most of the material in the plant’s reactors resolidified, in difficult shapes and in confined spaces, wrapped around and through the structural parts of the reactors and the buildings.
这座核电站内有三座毁损的反应堆堆芯，数以百吨计的高放射性的铀、钚、铯和锶变成了一团糟。2011年的海啸和地震致使这里发生堆芯熔融，反应堆里的大部分物质都在密闭空间里重新凝固成奇形怪状，被反应堆和建筑物的一些结构件包围着。
Or at least, that is what the engineers think. Nobody really knows, because nobody has yet examined many of the most important parts of the wreckage. Though three and a half years have passed, it is still too dangerous to climb inside for a look, and sending in a camera would risk more leaks. Engineers do not have enough data to even run a computer model that could tell them how much of the reactor cores are intact and how much of them melted, because the measurement systems inside the buildings were out of commission for days after the accident.
或者说，至少工程师是这么认为的。没有人真正知道这座核电站里面的状况如何，因为其废墟中最重要的部分，有很多都还没有经过检查。虽然时间已经过去了三年半，攀爬到里面查看仍然太过危险，把相机放进去则可能增加泄漏风险。工程师甚至没有足够的数据来建立计算机模型，从而了解堆芯的完整程度和熔融程度，因为在事故发生几天后，这些建筑物内的测量系统就停止了运转。
And though the buildings may be leaking, they were built of concrete and steel so thick that there is no hope of using X-rays or other conventional imaging technology to scan the wreckage from a safe distance.
尽管这些建筑物可能在泄露辐射，但它们也是由非常厚的混凝土和钢材建成的，所以用X光或其他传统成像技术，在安全距离之外进行扫描是没有用的。
To clean up the reactors, special tools must be custom-made, according to Duncan W. McBranch, the chief technology officer at Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the tools “can be much better designed if you had a good idea of what’s inside.” But “nobody knows what happened inside,” he said. “Nobody wants to go in to find out.”
要清理反应堆，就必须使用定制的特种工具，洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室(Los Alamos National Laboratory)的技术总监邓肯·W·麦克布兰奇(Duncan W. McBranch)说，“如果对建筑物里的状况有很好的了解，特种工具的设计就能做得好很多。”但“没人知道里面的情况，”他说。“没有人愿意进去探查。”
That is where muons come in.
在这种情况下，渺子(muon)就可以派上用场了。
In the next few days, Toshiba, the contractor in charge of the initial cleanup work, and the laboratory expect to sign a formal agreement to deploy a new technology that experts believe will yield three-dimensional images of the wrecked reactor cores, and will be able to differentiate the uranium and plutonium from other materials, even when 10 feet of concrete and steel are in the way.
未来几天内，负责初步清理工作的承包商东芝(Toshiba)和洛斯阿拉莫斯实验室有望签署正式协议，部署一种新的技术。专家认为，即使隔着10英尺（约3米）厚的混凝土和钢材，这种技术也可以绘制出反应堆熔融堆芯的三维图像，并且可以把铀和钚与其它物质区分开。
The Energy Department has been working on the technology for years, and already licenses it in a less advanced form for a more limited job: A Virginia company is using it in a device that screens shipping containers for smuggled uranium or plutonium that could be used in a nuclear bomb. The lab’s new version will be much more ambitious and will focus on mapping rather than just detection.
多年来，美国能源部(Energy Department)一直在努力推动这种技术的开发和应用，而且已经授权利用该技术的较低级版本，从事一项用途更有限的工作：弗吉尼亚州的一家公司正在依靠一种采用这种技术的设备，检测货运集装箱，打击铀或钚走私活动，这些材料可以用来制造核弹。该实验室的新版本拥有更加宏大的目标，它将专注于测绘，而不是仅仅进行检测。
The technique takes advantage of the fact that everything on earth is constantly being bombarded by muons, subatomic particles that are somewhat like electrons, though about 200 times as heavy. Muons are shaken loose from molecules in the atmosphere by cosmic radiation, and rain down on the earth. They are so penetrating that most go straight through the planet and zip out the other side at near the speed of light without any effect on their trajectory.
该技术所采用的原理是，地球上的一切东西都在持续受到渺子的“轰炸”，渺子是一种亚原子粒子，有点像电子，但是比电子重约200倍。受到宇宙辐射的作用，渺子会在大气层中脱离分子，像雨水一样洒落在地上。由于渺子的穿透力非常强，它们中的大多数会以接近光速的速度，直接穿透到地球的另一边，而其运动轨迹不会发生变化。
But occasionally, one of the muons will happen to hit an atomic nucleus, and when it does, it will change direction in a way that gives a clue about the shape of the target and the target’s density. The technique of detecting those scattered particles and inferring what it was that they bounced off is called muon tomography.
但是有时候，渺子也会恰巧撞到原子核，这种情况发生时，渺子就会改变方向。这种现象可以提供一些线索，让你了解它撞到的东西有怎样的形状和密度。检测这些散射的粒子，推断它们从什么东西上反弹回来，这种技术被称为“渺子断层扫描”。
“There is a similarity to X-ray, but the details of the physics are different,” Dr. McBranch said.
“这和X光技术有些相似，但其物理学原理的细节是不同的，”麦克布兰奇博士说。
Decision Sciences International, a Virginia company, says it can use muon tomography to screen a 40-foot shipping container in 45 seconds and sense whether there is uranium or plutonium in it, though not in great detail. As altered by the Los Alamos scientists for use at Fukushima, the process requires a much longer exposure — it could take weeks. But the result will be a three-dimensional image; concrete, steel and water will all be distinguishable from uranium, plutonium and other very heavy materials.
位于弗吉尼亚州的国际决策科学公司(Decision Sciences International)表示，它可以使用渺子断层扫描技术，在45秒内扫描一个40英尺规格的货运集装箱，检测出里面是否有铀或钚，不过无法获得详细数据。洛斯阿拉莫斯实验室的科学家用于福岛核电站的技术是另一个版本，需要更长的曝光时间——可能长达数周。但是最后它可以产生出一幅三维图像；并把混凝土、钢和水，与铀、钚等极重物质区分开。
“You don’t need a quick image, you just need a good image, and you have plenty of time,” said Stanton D. Sloane, the chief executive of Decision Sciences. Testing will begin later this year, officials say, and final images will be produced next year.
“时间并不紧，图像不需要绘制得很快，只需要绘制得很好，”决策科学公司的首席执行官斯坦顿·D·斯隆(Stanton D. Sloane)说。官员们透露，测试将在今年晚些时候开始，最终图像将在明年完成。
“I would expect to be able to distinguish fairly readily between what would be described as random results from the meltdown, versus engineered structural components,” Mr. Sloane said.
“我估计，把熔融导致的随机结果和工程结构部件区分开，是相当容易的，”斯隆说。
The Department of Energy, which runs the Los Alamos lab, does not yet have a formal agreement with Decision Sciences to produce the necessary hardware, but the company is likely to do so.
洛斯阿拉莫斯实验室所属的能源部，还没有与决策科学公司签订制造所需硬件的正式协议，不过相关硬件可能会由该公司制造。
Mr. Sloane would not say how much the equipment would cost, but the project is small by nuclear standards. Toshiba will reimburse Los Alamos for its costs, which officials said would come to less than half a million dollars. Los Alamos has spent about $4 million developing the technology. Decision Sciences spent additional money to commercialize it, but has not said how much.
斯隆不愿透露制造设备的成本有多高，但以核工业的标准来看，这个项目并不大。东芝会报销洛斯阿拉莫斯的花费，官员们表示，这笔费用应该不会超过50万美元（约310万人民币）。洛斯阿拉莫斯实验室研发这项技术已经花费了大约400万美元。决策科学公司另外花费了一些资金来促进它的商业化，但并未披露具体金额。