HONG KONG – Cofco, a sprawling, state-owned Chinese conglomerate began a reverse takeover bid on Tuesday worth 14.2 billion Hong Kong dollars ($1.8 billion) that would result in a Hong Kong listing for its commercial property business in mainland China.
香港——周二，不断扩张的中国国有企业中粮集团(Cofco)开始了一项价值高达142亿港元（约合112亿元人民币）的反向收购行动，此举将会使中粮的内地商业地产业务获得在香港上市的机会。
The conglomerate, whose varied operations include slaughtering livestock, managing hotels and selling life insurance, said it would place 12 property projects in cities across China – including hotels, offices, apartments and shopping malls – into one of its subsidiaries, the Hong Kong Parkview Group.
中粮集团拥有多种业务，比如家畜屠宰、酒店管理以及人寿保险销售。中粮表示，该集团将会把位于中国各大城市的12个房地产项目交给其子公司侨福建设企业机构(Hong Kong Parkview Group)，这些项目包括酒店、办公楼、公寓及购物中心。
In exchange, Parkview, currently a tiny holding company for a single office investment in Hong Kong, would issue new shares — as many as 19 times the number of shares it currently has outstanding.
作为交换，侨福将发行新股，新股数量可达该公司已发行股票数量的19倍。侨福目前是香港的一家小型控股公司，只投资了一个写字楼项目。
Reverse takeovers involve putting privately held assets in a target company that is already listed, usually in exchange for new shares that give the seller a controlling stake in the listed company. They are a popular option among Chinese property developers, who often struggle to secure bank financing and whose boom-and-bust earnings cycles can make an outright initial public offering more difficult. In Hong Kong, reverse takeovers are evaluated by the stock exchange as if they are initial public offerings.
反向收购行动涉及将未上市资产投入一个已经上市的目标公司，通常以此换取新股，使卖方由此获得该上市公司的控股权。这是广受中国地产开发商欢迎的选择，他们通常会努力获得银行贷款，但兴衰不定的盈利周期会使立即进行首次公开募股变得比较困难。在香港，证券交易所会对反向收购进行评估，将这种行为视同首次公开募股。
The complex deal announced on Tuesday calls for Parkview to be renamed Cofco Land. Cofco would end up holding 75 percent of Cofco Land after the reverse takeover, while public shareholders who did not buy into the new share sale would find their current 30 percent stake in Parkview reduced to 2 percent of Cofco Land.
根据周二宣布的复杂交易，侨福将改名为中粮置地控股有限公司。反向收购结束后，中粮集团最终将持有中粮置地75%的股份，没有买入新股的公众股东将会发现，在交易完成后，他们持有的侨福股份比例将从目前的30%降至2%。
The latest move by Cofco is the second part of a two-step transaction. In July 2012, the Chinese company paid 362 million dollars to acquire control of the listed company from a local family, but at the time Cofco did not change the company’s course of business.
中粮集团的前述最新举措是分两步进行的交易的第二步。2012年7月，这家中国公司花费3.62亿美元（约合22.16亿元人民币）从当地的一个家族手中收购了该上市公司，但当时中粮没有对该公司的业务做出改变。
The new shares to be issued by Parkview would be priced at 2 dollars apiece, a 50 percent discount on the 4 dollars at which the stock traded before the announcement.
侨福发行的新股的股价会是每股2美元，比信息公布前的该公司股价——4美元——低一半。
In explaining the pricing, the directors of Parkview, in which Cofco currently has a 69 percent indirect stake, took the unusual position that their company’s stock had been overvalued in recent trading.
在解释定价问题时，侨福的高管们采取了不同寻常的立场，称在最近的交易中，该公司的股票定价过高。中粮目前间接持有侨福69%的股份。
The recent trading levels “cannot be taken as the true value of the shares because there appeared to be a lack of correlation between the current trading price of the shares and the underlying business operations or financial performance of the company,” the directors said in the Tuesday statement.
高管们在周二的声明中说，近期的股价“不能被看做这些股份的真实价值，因为这些股份目前的交易价格似乎与公司的业务或财务状况没有什么相关性”。
Shares in Parkview had soared in two trading sessions before being suspended on Sept. 17.
在9月17日暂停交易之前，侨福的股票价格曾在两个交易期连续上涨。
“The recent increase in the share price may have been underpinned by the expectation of potential asset injection by Cofco Group,” the directors said in the company’s statement.
“股价近期上浮，可能是因为人们认为中粮集团会进行资产注入，”高管们在公司的声明中称。
HSBC is the financial adviser and sole sponsor of the reverse takeover. 
汇丰银行(HSBC)是此次反向收购的金融顾问和独家担保人。