SHANGHAI — New York commuters suffer regular delays. Aging tracks at Penn Station are being rebuilt after a series of derailments. The entire subway system is operating under a state of emergency.
上海——纽约的通勤者经常遇到延误。宾夕法尼亚站老化的轨道在经历一系列脱轨事件后正在重建。整个地铁系统正在紧急状态下运行。
Halfway around the world, China is rushing to build new subway systems. Here in Shanghai, three new lines are being extended this year. Trains are nearly always on time.
而世界另一端的中国正在加速修建新的地铁系统。上海今年在修建三条新的地铁线。地铁几乎总是准点。
Chinese officials are quick to say that New York has a model public transport network, albeit one they aspire to emulate more closely in some respects than others.
中国官员们常说纽约的公共交通网络是典范，虽然他们对它的效仿会侧重于某些方面。
While the New York system is aging, it still shows the soaring ambition of its original creators in its bold design — express tunnels and stations bring together up to a dozen lines. Shanghai’s is clean, efficient and constantly expanding. But its development also reflects a preoccupation with managing vast crowds and avoiding stampedes, which results in a layout that can make trips longer.
虽然纽约的系统在老化，但它大胆的设计仍反映出最初创造者的雄心壮志——快速隧道和车站连接起十几条线路。上海的地铁干净、高效，还在不断延伸。不过，它的开发也反映出设计者最重要的考虑是控制庞大的人群，避免拥挤，所以它的布局会让旅程更长。
On Time, or All The Time?
准时，还是24小时开放？
Fares on Shanghai’s subway are 3 to 4 renminbi, or 45 to 60 cents, for all but the longest journeys. To the extent that wages in the Chinese city are about a sixth that of New York, they roughly compare to the $2.75 fares in New York.
上海地铁的票价最高3至4元人民币，约合45至60美分。考虑到上海的工资大约是纽约的六分之一，所以大致相当于纽约的2.75美元。
But the similarities largely end there.
不过，两者的相似之处大致也就这些了。
New York’s subway struggles with chronic delays, partly because of mechanical breakdowns but also because of debris on the tracks and even people falling off platforms. The city has begun an intensive campaign of cleaning tracks of debris, to reduce the frequency of fires. Only two lines — the Lexington Avenue subway and the Queens Boulevard line — are able to offer trains every two minutes, and other lines can be much slower. Much of New York’s signal and switch equipment was installed before World War II.
纽约地铁长期延误，一是因为机械故障，二是因为轨道上的垃圾，或者有人从站台上跌落。纽约开始对轨道垃圾进行密集清理，以减少火灾的频率。只有两条线路——列克星敦大街线和皇后大道线——能够每两分钟发一趟车，其他线路要慢得多。纽约的信号和切换设备大多都是在二战前安装的。
By contrast, Shanghai’s trains are not only frequent but also dependable. The city’s subway claims to have an on-time rate of 99.8 percent. People or trash seldom fall on the tracks: thick, clear barriers of reinforced glass separate the platforms from the tracks, with sliding doors that open only when a train is in the station. Trains run every two minutes on the busiest lines, and almost as frequently on the other lines.
相比之下，上海的地铁不仅频率高，而且很可靠。据说，上海地铁的正点率高达99.8%。很少有人或垃圾掉入轨道：厚实、透明的强化玻璃墙将站台与轨道分开，滑动门仅在火车到站时开启。在最繁忙的路线上，火车每两分钟一趟，其他线路也几乎达到这个频率。
New York does have its advantages — particularly for night owls.
纽约的确有它的优势——尤其是对夜猫子来说。
Subway systems in Shanghai, and across China, shut down every evening. Only in the last few months has Shanghai even extended the closing time for its most heavily used lines to midnight, while other routes still close as early as 10:30 p.m.
上海乃至整个中国的地铁系统每天晚上停运。上海仅在数月前将其最繁忙路线的停运时间延长至午夜，而其他路线依然在晚上10点半停运。
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority takes pride in keeping all 472 of its stations open 24 hours a day.
大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)以它的472个地铁站全部每天24小时开放为荣。
It is able to do so because of the foresight of its builders more than a century ago, said Shao Weizhong, the Shanghai Metro vice president overseeing the system’s operations and management center. The New York system was built with express train tunnels in addition to local train tunnels. So subway cars can take turns during the night running through the local tunnels and the express tunnels, with maintenance conducted on whichever tunnel is not in use.
上海地铁负责系统运行和管理中心的副总裁邵伟中表示，纽约地铁之所以能做到这样，是因为其建造者一个多世纪前的远见。纽约的地铁系统除了区域隧道之外，还修建了快速隧道。所以车厢可以在夜间轮流通过区域隧道和快速隧道，维修工作可以在未使用的隧道里进行。
Shanghai’s subway system, like most such networks around the world, does not have separate local and express tunnels, so the entire system has to stop every night for maintenance. But the system’s newest and most technologically advanced line, Line 14, which is scheduled to open in 2020, will have parallel tracks along at least part of it for ease of maintenance, Mr. Shao said. He added that no decision had been made yet on whether to extend its hours of service.
上海的地铁系统和世界各地的大多数系统一样，没有分开的区域隧道和快速隧道，所以整个系统每天晚上必须停运维修。不过邵伟中称，计划于2020年开放的14号线，也就是该系统最新、技术最先进的线路，将至少在部分路段设立并行轨道，以方便维修。但他说目前尚未决定是否延长它的营运时间。
Workers and Machines
工人和机器
What really separates the Shanghai subway, and those of other Chinese cities, from many Western counterparts is the speed of construction.
上海地铁以及中国其他城市的地铁与很多西方城市地铁的真正区别在于建设速度。
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has used six giant tunnel-boring machines in recent years across the subway network. Shanghai has 60 such devices working on just one of the many new lines it is building or extending.
大都会运输署近些年在整个地铁系统中使用六台巨大的隧道掘进机。而上海正在修建或延长的很多新线路中，仅在一条上就有60台这样的设备。
“Our working progress is faster than in Western countries — maybe we only take one or two years to finish” a task, said Zhou Xisheng, a 49-year-old deputy chief engineer for Shanghai Metro. “However, in foreign countries, it may take five to ten years.”
上海地铁副总工程师、49岁的周希圣表示，“我们的工程进度是比西方国家要快的，可能我们需要一两年完成的工程，他们需要5到10年。”
Shanghai does not just have more equipment, it also has cheaper labor. Heavy equipment operators earn about $1,000 a month here, a small fraction of what comparable workers earn in New York.
上海不只是有更多设备，它还有更便宜的劳动力。这里的重型设备操作员每个月大约挣1000美元，跟纽约同等工人比起来微不足道。
The overall effect is striking: China has completed more miles of subways than the rest of the world in each of the last two years, according to the Brussels-based International Association of Public Transport.
总体效果是惊人的：据布鲁塞尔的国际公共交通协会(International Association of Public Transport)称，中国在过去两年里每年建成的地铁线路长于世界其他国家的总和。
To be fair, a simple count of tunnel-boring machines and laborers is not enough to compare the challenges each city faces in building subway lines.
公平地讲，简单地计算隧道掘进机和工人的数量不足以比较每个城市在修建地铁线路时面临的挑战。
For starters, not all of New York’s subway construction even uses tunnel-boring machines: Some of it is done by cutting a very deep trench in the ground, laying the new line and then covering it.
首先，纽约的地铁建设并不都需要使用隧道掘进机：有些是在地上挖出很深的壕沟，铺上新轨道，然后再盖住。
A bigger difference is that New York has to cut through solid rock to make new tunnels, while Shanghai is digging through relatively soft, solidified mud left by rivers winding across the Yangtze River delta for millions of years. (But that mud creates another hazard that is less of a worry in New York’s firm bedrock: making sure that the roofs of Shanghai’s subway tunnels do not sag or leak water.)
一个更重要的区别是，纽约开隧道必须穿过坚硬的岩石，而上海则是打通相对较软的固化淤泥，它们是数百万年来流过长江三角洲的河水留下的（不过，淤泥也造成了另一个危险，那是纽约坚硬的岩床所不太担心的：确保上海地铁隧道的顶部不会塌陷或漏水）。
Squares and Diagonals
矩形和对角线
Shanghai’s subway may carry nearly twice as many people as New York’s, even though it has a quarter fewer stations. But on a day-to-day basis, the biggest difference between the two networks lies in the complexity of each city’s stations.
上海地铁的运输人数是纽约的近两倍，尽管它的车站数量比纽约少四分之一。不过从日常角度讲，这两个系统最大的区别在于每座城市地铁站的复杂程度。
The sprawling Times Square station, for example, and its 42nd Street extension have 12 lines, although a few of them share tracks. Across New York’s subway map, no line is rigidly straight throughout.
比如，庞大的时报广场站和它的第42街延长部分有12条线路穿过，虽然有几条线的轨道相同。纽约的地铁图上没有一条线是绝对的直线。
Shanghai, on the other hand, has a subway map that looks more like a rectangular grid — lines run north to south, and east to west, with few exceptions. As a result, most transfer stations involve just two lines, a few have three lines and only one station in the entire network has four.
而上海的地铁图看起来更像是一个矩形网格，地铁线都是南北向或东西向，几乎没有例外。所以，大部分换乘站只有两条线穿过，有几个有三条线，整个地铁网中只有一个车站有四条线穿过。
The lack of “diagonal” lines means that journeys tend to be slightly longer and often involve a transfer — riders in effect go around a square to reach a destination, and have to change trains at the corners.
没有“斜行”地铁线意味着旅程往往更长，经常需要换乘——乘客们实际上是沿着方形路线到达目的地，而且必须在转角处换乘。
Line 14, the newest addition to Shanghai’s network, is a notable exception. It will run diagonally along part of its route when it finally opens.
上海地铁网最新增加的14号线是一个明显的例外。它最终开放时，会斜着通过某些路段。
But faced with a city with three times the population of New York, and fearful of overcrowding, Shanghai subway officials say that they prefer the simplicity.
不过，这座城市的人口是纽约的三倍，上海地铁官员表示，由于担心过度拥挤，他们更喜欢简单。
“We try to avoid four-line hubs,” said Li Yingfeng, the chief of the Shanghai subway’s operation management center, “because we have a much higher ridership than the New York City system.”
“我们尽量避免四线换乘，”上海地铁运营管理中心主任李颖峰表示，“因为我们的客流量比纽约大。”