Sipping a good gin and tonic is like finding a 20th-century oxford shirt in the closet and realizing that you can still wear it downtown tonight without looking out of step with the century we’re stuck in.
小酌一口上好的“金汤力”（奎宁杜松子酒，gin and tonic），就像在衣橱里发现一件20世纪的牛津布衬衣，你今晚能穿着它进城，且不会显得跟我们生活的世纪格格不入。
It just works.
它就是这么有用。
But that hasn’t stopped mixology-besotted bartenders from trying to make it better. You’ll find a few of them who can’t resist filling a glass with more and more flavor dimensions, creating a gin and tonic that’s such a complicated spectacle, you barely recognize it. The good news, though, is that plenty of fresh and successful variations are being dreamed up by bartenders and restaurateurs who don’t view the word “restraint” as an epithet.
但是醉心于调酒术的调酒师们还是会努力让它的滋味变得更好。你会发现他们中有些人忍不住会让酒杯里充满更多的滋味，创造出非常复杂的金汤力，让你几乎都认不出它来。不过好消息是有些调酒师和餐馆老板想出了很多新鲜而成功的调制方法，因为他们不认为“克制”是一种赞美。
Thanks to them (and to an international boom in new, carefully crafted gins and tonics), this is a fine time to be a G&T drinker. Especially in New York.
多亏了他们（以及国际上兴起的各种新鲜的、精心制作的金汤力），现在是喝金汤力的好时候。特别是在纽约。
“And then you toss Dorothy Parker on top,” I heard a bartender say the other evening at Cata, a Spanish restaurant on the Lower East Side. As much as I loved the image of one of the great wits of the Algonquin Round Table lounging on a bed of ice, the bartender was referring to a brand of gin, one that’s made in Brooklyn and named after someone who knew a little something about the pleasures of distilled spirits.
“然后你把多萝西·帕克(Dorothy Parker)倒在最上面，”不久前的一个晚上，我在下东区一家名叫Cata的西班牙餐馆里听到一个调酒师这样说。我所知道的多萝西·帕克是阿尔冈琴圆桌会的一位伟大成员，调酒师口中的却是一个杜松子酒品牌，此时正懒洋洋地躺在冰床上。它是在布鲁克林生产的，以一个对蒸馏烈酒带来的欢愉有所了解的人命名。
Cata offers a staggering array of gin and tonics: 25 at last count, although the list keeps growing and evolving. And their inspiration is the vogue for fresh twists on the cocktail in cities like Madrid and Barcelona. You might say the Spanish formula is to maintain the traditional, no-fuss approach (gin and tonic on ice), but to sidestep the usual lime and replace that garnish with new currents of spice and fruit that (ideally) bring out the botanicals in the gin.
Cata提供的金汤力品种之多让人惊叹：最新的统计是25种，不过数量还在不断增加。他们的灵感来自在马德里和巴塞罗那这样的城市里流行的鸡尾酒新口味。你可能会说西班牙的配方就是保持传统，不要小题大作（就是加冰的杜松子酒和奎宁水），但是不要用常见的柠檬，而代之以新流行的香料和水果，（最好）能把杜松子酒中的草本味激发出来。
For my first try at Cata, the bartender gently muddled a halved kumquat at the bottom of a glass. He dropped in some ice, then several dried cloves and a couple more kumquats, poured in a few ounces of the Dorothy Parker gin and slid the glass toward me. It was accompanied by a bottle of Schweppes tonic. I was free to use as much or as little as I wanted.
我在Cata品尝的第一杯金汤力是这样调制出来的：调酒师在玻璃杯底轻轻地搅拌一个切成两半的金橘，然后加了些冰和几块干丁香，之后又加了两个金橘，再倒入几盎司多萝西·帕克牌杜松子酒，然后把它滑给了我。同时还给了我一瓶“舒味思”(Schweppes)牌奎宁水。我可以凭自己的喜好添加奎宁水。
I wanted more (cocktails, I mean). You’ll find a lavender gin and tonic on the menu at Cata. A licorice one, too. Another with cilantro, another with star anise, and another with the aromatic oil from a big orange peel. Each version uses a specific gin. It might be the Botanist or Boodles or Bluecoat or Death’s Door; the tonic might be Fever-Tree, Q, Fentimans, White Rock or Schweppes. In each instance, the team at Cata went through scores of trial runs to suss out the combinations that would give each gin the proper spotlight.
我还想再多来点（鸡尾酒）。在Cata的菜单上你能找到一种薰衣草金汤力。还有甘草味的、芫荽味的、大茴香味的和橘皮香油味的。每一款都使用特定的杜松子酒。可能是Botanist牌的、Boodles牌的、Bluecoat牌的或者“死亡之门”(Death’s Door)牌的。奎宁水可能是Fever-Tree牌的、Q牌的、Fentimans牌的、White Rock牌的或者舒味思牌的。每一款都是Cata餐馆的调酒团队经过多次试验后才调制出来的，为的是充分激发每一种杜松子酒的味道。
“We wanted to be simple,” said Michel Vasilevich, who oversees beverages for Cata. “Nothing infused. Nothing overpowering. Gin is beautiful on its own already.”
“我们想弄得简单一点，”Cata餐馆酒水部的主管米歇尔·瓦西列维奇(Michel Vasilevich)说。“其他东西不能喧宾夺主。杜松子酒本身就已经很美味了。”
Gin, like sake, pairs effortlessly with salty, fatty bites of food, like tapas. So it only makes sense that the Spanish style of gin and tonic has been cropping up at spots like Cata, Tertulia, Boqueria and La Vara, in Brooklyn, where a “gin-tonic” comes in a big glass that feels like some Iberian goblet with a fragrant curl of lemon peel climbing out.
同样地，杜松子酒也很适合跟咸的、油腻的食物搭配，比如西班牙小吃。这就可以解释为什么西班牙风味的金汤力意外出现在布鲁克林的一些餐馆里，比如Cata，Tertulia, Boqueria 和 La Vara。在这些餐馆里，金汤力盛放在那种类似伊比利亚高脚杯的大玻璃杯里，杯沿上挂着一卷芳香的柠檬皮。
If it’s back in fashion now, Spain gets some of the credit, but so does the whole artisanal, D.I.Y. approach to ingredients. Per Se, Thomas Keller’s culinary temple in the Time Warner Center, created something of a stir years back when it started offering a cocktail mixed with cinchona powder, the traditional ingredient used to make tonic water.
这种风尚的回归，西班牙功不可没，但是所有那些讲究手法和配料的DIY调酒方式也同样有所贡献。托马斯·凯勒(Thomas Keller)在时代华纳中心开的餐厅Per Se回归传统，开始供应一种含有金鸡纳粉的鸡尾酒——金鸡纳粉是制作奎宁水的传统成分。
Now, kitchen-brewed tonic is a badge of honor at certain places around the country.
如今，在世界上的某些地方，厨房自制的奎宁水成了一种荣耀的标志。
Consider Pedro Gonçalves, the man in charge of wine and beverages at Oceana, a Midtown restaurant that prides itself in stocking not only gins from around the world, but four different shades of tonic: sweet, bitter, citrus and spicy. A while back, Mr. Gonçalves, a lover of G&Ts who has family roots in Portugal, found himself wondering: “Why do people have such a great gin, and then ruin it with a generic tonic? It kind of bothered me.”
比如市中心的Oceana餐馆。这家餐馆不仅储备有世界各地的杜松子酒，还储备了四种奎宁水：甜的、苦的、酸的和辣的。这里的酒水主管佩德罗·贡萨夫(Pedro Gonçalves)祖籍葡萄牙，他十分喜爱金汤力。前不久他忽然想到一个问题：“为什么人们拥有这么好的杜松子酒，却用那么普通的奎宁水把它毁掉呢？这有点让我受不了。”
So, with an eye toward conjuring up his own quinine syrup, he ordered a stash of powdered cinchona bark from Peru. “I was like, ‘O.K., what the hell do I do with this?’ ” he recalled. “Honestly, I didn’t really have any idea.” Filtering out the sediment turned out to be a challenge, but through trial and error, Mr. Gonçalves figured out how to make tonic.
所以，为了调制出他自己的奎宁水，他从秘鲁订购了一些金鸡纳树皮粉。“我当时心想，‘好吧，我到底该怎么处理这些鬼东西呢？’”他回忆说，“坦白地说，我当时真不知道该怎么办。” 光是过滤沉淀物都是一项挑战，但是通过不断的实验和犯错，贡萨夫找到了制作奎宁水的方法。
“Quinine has quite a history,” he said. “The native South Americans used to use it as a muscle relaxant. It’s good for you. After a hard day’s work, your body is fatigued.”
“奎宁历史悠久，”他说。“南美土著过去用它来放松肌肉。它对你有好处。在辛苦工作一天之后，你的身体很疲惫。”
Now it’s a matter of persuading customers to give the muscle relaxant a try. The cocktail often looks different with a house-made tonic. Its hue can resemble iced tea. “At first, people were like, ‘Wow, this is kind of dark,’ ” he said. But Mr. Gonçalves remains so convinced that “anything that’s mass-produced is not going to have the same attention to detail” that he uses an odd kind of reverse marketing. Sidle up to the bar at Oceana and he’ll charge you a dollar extra if you ask for Schweppes.
现在的问题是劝说顾客试试这种肌肉松弛剂。加入自制奎宁水的鸡尾酒经常会跟普通的看起来不太一样。它的颜色可能像冰茶。“一开始，人们会说，‘哇，这个颜色有点深，’”他说。但是贡萨夫仍然坚信“任何大规模生产的东西都不可能这样注重细节，”所以他采用了一种独特的反向营销方式。在Oceana的酒吧里，如果你要加舒味思牌奎宁水的话，要多收一块钱。
Not all bartenders would agree with that policy. Many of them will tell you that it’s hard to beat the pleasure of pre-made tonics like Fever-Tree, Fentimans and, yes, Schweppes.
不是所有的调酒师都赞同这种做法。他们中的很多人会告诉你有些现成的奎宁水的美味是很难超越的，比如Fever-Tree牌的和Fentimans牌的，当然还包括舒味思牌的。
“That’s their business,” said Tyler Pitman, the director of operations and national beverage manager for Todd English Enterprises. “I’m not going to do it better than they are.” Mr. Pitman put together the recipe for a gin and tonic that’s served at the bar at the Todd English Food Hall, the gastronomic emporium in the Plaza. It’s made with Fever-Tree tonic, Hendrick’s gin, a slice of grapefruit, a sprinkle of freshly grated cardamom and a leaf of basil that’s clapped between two hands to foster the release of flavor.
“他们是专门做这个的，”托德·英格利希(Todd English)公司的运营主管兼全国酒水经理泰勒·皮特曼(Tyler Pitman)这样说。“我不认为我能做得比他们更好。”广场酒店(The Plaza)的美食店“托德·英格利希餐厅”的酒吧里供应的是皮特曼设计的一款奎宁杜松子酒。它是用Fever-Tree牌奎宁水、Hendrick牌杜松子酒、一片葡萄柚、一点现磨的小豆蔻和一片罗勒叶调制而成的，罗勒叶要在两手之间轻拍一下，来促进气味挥发。
Mr. Pitman believes that the key to the infrastructure of a good G&T is sticking to the classic recipe, he said.
皮特曼认为一杯好喝的金汤力的基础是严格按照经典配方来调制。
Indeed, if the cocktail has an equivalent in the American literary canon, it has to be “The Great Gatsby,” the Jazz Age staple by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
是的，如果把鸡尾酒比作一部美国经典文学著作的话，那一定是F·斯科特·菲茨杰拉德的爵士时代经典之作《了不起的盖茨比》(The Great Gatsby)。
Both the book and the drink manage to come across as simultaneously elegant and egalitarian, and how you feel about a “reinvented” G&T might just correspond to how you feel about the recent film version of “Gatsby” by Baz Luhrmann, the Australian director who seems to have missed his calling as a designer of vertigo-inducing carnival rides.
这本书和这种饮料都尽力做到既优雅又平民化。而你对“改造”过的金汤力的感觉可能就像你对巴兹·鲁赫曼(Baz Luhrmann)最近拍摄的电影《了不起的盖茨比》的感觉一样，这位澳大利亚导演似乎更适合去设计令人头晕目眩的游乐园飞车。
In each case, might it be better not to let things get out of hand? The gentleman running the bar at the Greenwich Project, a new spot downtown, would agree. He brushed off the idea of making his own tonic after some failed experiments a few years back. “We attempted it, but we decided against it,” he said the other day, after explaining that a template can be found in “Dr. No,” the Ian Fleming novel, during a scene in which James Bond orders a double with a whole lime. “We were unable to get something that we really loved every single time. And many people who want a gin and tonic just want the classic.” Listen up. There’s an extra reason to believe that the man at the bar at the Greenwich Project knows what he’s talking about. His name, after all, is Scott Fitzgerald.
不管哪种情况，不要让事情失控是不是更好一些？在城里的一家名叫Greenwich Project的新餐馆主管酒吧的那位绅士应该会同意这种看法。他几年前做了几次失败的尝试之后，放弃了自制奎宁水的想法。“我们试过了，但是我们决定不再那样做了，”前不久的一天他这样说。他先是举了伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)的小说《诺博士》(Dr. No)中的一个例子，在其中一幕里，詹姆斯·邦德点了含一整个柠檬的双份鸡尾酒。“我们不是每次点单都能点到自己真正喜欢的东西。很多点金汤力的人想要的是经典口味。”听好了。你要相信Greenwich Project酒吧的这个人说的话，因为还有一个原因：他的名字就叫斯科特·菲茨杰拉德。