With Greece reeling over fears of default and the weeklong closure of its major banks and stock market, travelers are likely wondering how these major financial disruptions will affect their ability to use currency throughout the country. While native Greeks are currently limited to daily A.T.M. withdrawals of 60 euros per account, tourists do not face similar restrictions. (However, many A.T.M.s have been running out of money, forcing people to try other machines, which have been plagued by long lines.)
眼下希腊正陷入违约恐慌，主要银行和股市关门已有一周，观光客们可能在想，这些剧烈的金融动荡会对他们在该国消费产生怎样的影响。目前每个希腊本国银行账户每天只能从ATM机提取60欧元（约合410元人民币），但游客不会受到类似的限制。（不过，许多ATM机的钱已经被取光，人们被迫要去别的机器前排长队。）
Credit and debit cards issued by foreign banks are being accepted throughout the country without any additional regulations.
外国银行核发的信用卡和借记卡可全境正常使用，没有任何额外的管制。
The Ministry for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a Greek governmental department, released a statement on Monday saying, “The Ministry does not anticipate any disruptions in visitors’ everyday holiday experience, neither in the islands nor in mainland Greece, as there are adequate fuel supplies, products and services.”
希腊经济、基础设施、航运和旅游部(Ministry for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism)在周一发布声明称，“我部不认为游客的日常度假体验会受到任何干扰，无论在岛屿还是希腊本土，燃料供应、产品和服务都是充足的。”
Menelaos Karvounidis, an American Express Travel destination expert who specializes in Greek tourism, said the country’s cash flow problems have not deterred tourists who are there or decreased interest in the country.
从事希腊旅游研究的美国运通旅行社(American Express Travel)目的地专家梅内拉奥斯·卡沃恩尼蒂斯(Menelaos Karvounidis)说，希腊的现金流问题不会妨碍在那里的游客，也不会影响人们对这个国家的兴趣。
“Things have been pretty calm and no one has canceled,” Mr. Karvounidis said. “I would recommend that people go on their trips.”
“事态一直挺平静的，没人取消行程，”卡沃恩尼蒂斯说。“我的建议是大家照去不误。”
Christos Stergiou, the founder of TrueGreece, a Greek luxury travel company, said that his organization is trying to provide the most updated information to travelers. He said that current visitors are “having a blast” and “have been completely unaffected by recent economic developments.”
希腊豪华游公司TrueGreece创始人克里斯托斯·斯特尔吉乌(Christos Stergiou)说，他的公司会尽力把事态进展及时告知游客。他说此刻游客们“玩得很开心”，并且“完全没有受到近日经济局势的影响。”
However, Mr. Stergiou still asks that travelers take some extra precautions.
不过斯特尔吉乌还是建议游客们要多加小心。
“When arriving in Greece, we recommend that guests have an appropriate cash balance in euros already with them,” he said. “We recommend maintaining extra cash on reserve in addition to what you would normally expect to spend.”
“我们建议客人来希腊时准备好适当的欧元现金额度，”他说。“我们建议在原计划开销的基础上，再多准备一些现金。”
Mr. Stergiou also said that visitors should try to use their credit cards as their main payment method.
斯特尔吉乌还说，游客应该尽量将信用卡作为主要支付手段。
“Most service providers should continue accepting credit cards; therefore, cash can be preserved for those that do not.”
“多数服务供应商会继续接受信用卡支付；因此可以省下现金，在不能刷卡的地方用。”
Ronnie Liadis, owner of Liadis Travel, said that despite initial concerns about accessing money, no one who booked a vacation through her company has run into any problems.
里亚迪斯旅行社(Liadis Travel)所有人罗妮·里亚迪斯(Ronnie Liadis)说，大家一开始担心会取不到钱，但通过她的公司预订度假行程的客户没有遇到问题。
“I have clients in Santorini, Crete and Athens, and the only issue I have heard was long lines for gasoline in Crete,” she said.
“我在圣托里尼岛、克里特岛、雅典都有客户，据我所知，唯一的问题是在克里特岛加油要排长队，”她说。
“This has been one of the busiest summers for tourism in Greece because of the value of the United States dollar,” she added. “Of all my clients traveling to the country in July, August and September, none have called and said they wanted to cancel.” (The euro is currently $1.11 against the dollar.)
“由于美元升值，今年夏天希腊旅游格外地旺，”她说。“计划7、8、9月来希腊旅游的客户里，没人打电话来取消。”（目前的汇率是1欧元兑换1.11美元。）
Ms. Liadis said that while American travelers may not be sure what to expect, the country will be ready for them.
里亚迪斯说，也许美国游客会有点忐忑，但希腊已经做好迎接他们的准备。