The wine boxes and masking tape are out, because I’ve begun to pack up the last, best books in my children’s picture book library.
我把红酒箱子和不透明胶带取了出来，因为我要开始打包孩子们珍藏的最好的图画书了。
This is an overdue task. They’re 13 and 15 now and we haven’t read aloud to them in years. We’ve kept this final stack at hand out of undiluted nostalgia. Moving it into the attic shouldn’t be a big deal. But it is.
我早就该打包了。他们现在一个13岁，另一个15岁，我们已经很多年没给他们大声朗诵图书了。出于浓郁的怀旧情结，我们还保留着这最后一堆书。把它们挪到阁楼上应该不算什么大事。但又的确是件大事。
In the past, when I’ve had to pack my personal library, what I’ve boxed are talismans of intense yet essentially private experience. Picture books aren’t like this. When you’re putting away these square, dog-eared, popcorn-butter-stained things, you’re confronting an entire cosmos of collective memory.
过去，当我必须把自己的藏书打包起来时，感觉那些书就像我的护身符，具有强烈而私人的体验。图画书不是这样的。当你把这些四四方方、皱皱巴巴、沾着爆米花和黄油污渍的图书收起来时，你面对的是整个家庭的集体记忆。
Because my wife and I so repeatedly read these favorite picture books aloud — comically, exhaustedly, occasionally inebriatedly — to our children, their words and images have worn grooves into our minds. They occupy places in our family’s shared consciousness as indelibly as do summer vacations, trips to the hospital or injured birds cared for in cardboard boxes.
因为我和妻子曾给孩子们反复朗读过这些心爱的图画书——滑稽地念，筋疲力尽地念，偶尔是醉醺醺地念。故事里的对白和画面已经印到了我们脑子里。在家庭共有的记忆里，它们和暑假、去医院以及照顾硬纸箱里受伤的小鸟一样不可磨灭。
They’re the fine, weird, uncanny poems we’ve each memorized and carry around in our heads. They’re evocative of some of life’s best things — wet hair, clean pajamas, the end of working days. They’re the last books the four of us are likely ever to read again at anything like the same moment. Our splendid nightly book club has ended its run.
我们每个人都记得这些优美、古怪、离奇的诗，难以忘怀。它们能让人想起生活中最美好的一些事情——潮湿的头发，干净的睡衣，下班后的时光。这些书很有可能是我们四个人在同一时间一起阅读的最后一批书了。我们美妙的晚间读书俱乐部已经走完了它的历程。
Happily for us, our book club had its Oprah. Her name was Eden Ross Lipson.
幸运的是，我们的读书俱乐部有一位明星主持人。她的名字叫伊登·罗斯·利普森(Eden Ross Lipson)。
Eden was The New York Times Book Review’s longtime children’s book editor, a legend in her field, who died in 2009. When my kids were little, I worked as an editor at the Book Review, and I had the crazy good fortune to possess the desk next to hers.
伊登是《纽约时报》书评栏目的一位资深童书编辑，她是这个领域的传奇人物，2009年去世。我的孩子们还小的时候，我在书评栏目做编辑，我的办公桌就在她旁边，我真是太幸运了。
She had a jumbo-size personality (the journalist Cokie Roberts spoke at her funeral service) and jumbo-size opinions. She wouldn’t recommend a book for your children until she knew everything about them and, almost as importantly, everything about you. She’d need to grill you. Her interrogations were tests of character.
她有伟大的人格（记者Cokie Roberts在她的葬礼上致辞时这样说）和伟大的观点。她不会轻易给你的孩子们推荐图书，除非她非常了解他们，并且非常了解你，后者几乎和前者同样重要。她需要质询你，以此了解你的性格。
Eden described these improvised interviews in “The New York Times Parent’s Guide to the Best Books for Children,” (1988) a book she edited. She would bear down on you like this: “How old a child? A boy or a girl? Where does he or she live? Siblings? Intact family? Special interests? A book to read aloud, or a book for a child to read to herself?”
伊登在她编辑的《纽约时报最佳童书指南》(The New York Times Parent’s Guide to the Best Books for Children, 1988)中描述了这种即兴询问。她会用一长串的问题轰炸你：“多大的孩子？男孩女孩？住在哪儿？有兄弟姐妹吗？是单亲家庭吗？有什么特殊爱好吗？是想要一本可供朗读的书 ，还是让孩子自己看的书？”
These were merely the opening salvos. It was as intense as psychotherapy. Afterward, you had to go and sit down. At the time, I still smoked, so I’d recuperate in one of the smoking lounges in the Times’s old building on West 43rd Street.
这些只是开场白。这种询问的强度就像心理治疗。之后，你得坐下来。那时候，我还没戒烟，所以我会到其中一间可以抽烟的休息室里缓缓神，那是在《纽约时报》位于西43大街的旧楼里。
One of Eden’s dictums was that there was no way to tell if a new children’s classic had arrived until a generation or two had passed. The question isn’t whether you’ll read a book to your kids. It’s whether they will read the same book to their kids, and so on down the line.
伊登的名言之一是，只有经过一两代人的考验，才能判断一本童书是否是经典之作。问题不在于你是否会给孩子们读这本书，而在于他们是否会给自己的孩子们读这同一本书，并一直传承下去。
My wife, Cree, and I both had favorite kids’ books from when we were young, books we couldn’t wait to read aloud to our children. But Eden was always there to slip me a new thing or two. “Here,” she’d say, “this writer has really got something.” Or: “Dwight, I think your daughter is finally ready for this.” Some of these became dearly prized.
我和妻子克里(Cree)都有孩提时代非常喜欢的童书，我们迫不及待地想把这些书念给孩子们听。但是伊登经常会塞给我一两本新书。“瞧，”她说，“这位作者真的有一手。”或者：“德怀特(Dwight)，我觉得你女儿终于可以读这本书了。”其中有些书成了我们的珍藏图书。
One was “The Giant Ball of String” (2002), with text and art by Arthur Geisert. We’ve read this book until it’s nearly come apart. It’s a sly moral fable about love and theft and guile and justice. You can imagine it directed, as a kind of poker-faced kid’s revenge caper, by Wes Anderson.
其中一本是《巨大的线球》(The Giant Ball of String, 2002)，文图作者是阿瑟·盖泽特(Arthur Geisert)。我们差不多把这本书都翻破了。它是个俏皮的道德寓言故事，讲述了关于爱、偷窃、欺诈与正义。它可以被拍成一部严肃的儿童复仇恶作剧，可以让韦斯·安德森(Wes Anderson)来导演。
Another was “The Day the Babies Crawled Away” (2003) by Peggy Rathmann. Who knows why certain picture books catch like fishhooks in your mind. For us, this was one of them. It’s barely got a story — it’s about a gaggle of babies who crawl away from their parents at a fair, and the young boy who follows and rescues them.
另一本叫《婴儿们爬走的那一天》(The Day the Babies Crawled Away, 2003)，作者是佩姬·拉特曼(Peggy Rathmann)。天知道为什么某些图画书能像鱼钩一样紧紧地抓住你的心。对我们来说，这本书就是这样的。它的故事情节很简单——一群婴儿在集市上从父母的身边爬走，一个小男孩跟随并搭救了他们。
But it’s beautiful and enveloping. Everything is in crisp shadow against a neon late afternoon sky. There are funny grace notes, like the one baby who can be found hanging upside down somewhere in almost every drawing. Kids love to scan busy drawings for unpredictable detail. Ours nicknamed this weird kid “bat baby.”
可是这本书很漂亮，而且给人一种身临其境的感觉。一切都很明快，背景是傍晚霓虹初上的天空。其中有一些有趣的亮点，比如有一个婴儿，你几乎在每一幅画里都能找到他在什么地方倒挂着。孩子们喜欢仔细查看内容丰富的图画，寻找意想不到的细节。我们的孩子们给这个古怪的小孩起了个绰号，叫“蝙蝠宝贝”。
Eden also gave me “Epossumondas” (2002), by Coleen Salley with illustrations by Janet Stevens. It’s based on a Southern folktale, and it’s hilarious.
伊登还给了我一本《爱泼萨蒙达》(Epossumondas, 2002)，故事作者是科林·萨莉(Coleen Salley)，插图作者是珍妮特·史蒂文斯(Janet Stevens)。它是根据一个南方民间故事改编的，十分有趣。
I usually ended up reading this story aloud — I hope my Southern friends will forgive me for this — in the kind of faux-backwoods accent Mick Jagger employed in the song “Far Away Eyes.” The book’s about a possum who is “his mama’s and his auntie’s sweet little patootie.”
我通常最后会把这个故事大声念出来。我会用米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)演唱《眼神空灵》(Far Away Eyes)时模仿的南方口音来朗诵——我希望南方的朋友们不要介意我这么做。这本书讲的是一只负鼠，“他是妈妈和阿姨眼中的小心肝”。
Other books, in our pile of favorites, we discovered on our own.
我们最喜爱的图画书中，也有些是我们自己发现的。
Hans de Beer’s “Little Polar Bear” (1987), for example, a witty, plaintive book my children adored when they were barely out of diapers.
比如汉斯·德·比尔(Hans de Beer)的《小北极熊》(Little Polar Bear, 1987)。这本书诙谐而哀伤，我的孩子们快不用穿纸尿裤时，特别喜欢这本书。
And Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean’s “The Wolves in the Walls” (2003). These wolves are party animals, mean scuzzy fuzzballs out of a Ralph Steadman drawing or a Warren Zevon song.
还有尼尔·盖曼(Neil Gaiman)和戴夫·麦基恩(Dave McKean)的《墙中狼》(The Wolves in the Walls, 2003)。这些狼特别喜欢玩闹，就像拉夫·斯特德曼(Ralph Steadman)画里或沃伦·泽冯(Warren Zevon)歌中的那些卑鄙、肮脏的毛毛怪。
It’s hideous joy to watch them frolic, and to witness them getting their comeuppance. The book’s refrain, uttered by a girl’s disbelieving mother and father, is this: “If the wolves come out of the walls, then it’s all over.”
看着他们嬉闹或者遭到报应，能获得极大的乐趣。小女孩的父母从来不相信她说的话，总是说：“要是狼从墙里出来，那就全完了。”
Mark Alan Stamaty’s brilliant and surreal 1973 picture book, “Who Needs Donuts?”, is another I’m about to pack up. Mr. Stamaty tattoos every available surface in his books with surreal and witty detail. This book, reissued by Alfred A. Knopf in 2003, deserves to become a classic.
马克·艾伦·斯达马提(Mark Alan Stamaty)1973年出版的精彩而超现实的图画书《谁需要甜甜圈》(Who Needs Donuts?)是我准备打包的另一本书。斯达马提把书中所有空白的地方都画上了超现实的、诙谐的细节图。这本书在2003年由Alfred A. Knopf出版社再次出版，堪称经典。
It’s one I’ve read to my children at least 500 times. To this day we can’t drive past a Dunkin’ Donuts without someone in the back seat plaintively or sarcastically mewling the book’s central question: “Who needs doughnuts, when you’ve got love?”
这本书我给孩子们至少读了500遍。直到今天，我们每次开车经过“唐恩都乐”(Dunkin’ Donuts)甜甜圈店时，后座总有人会哀怨或者讽刺地念叨书中的那句话：“有了爱，谁还需要甜甜圈呢？”
Then there’s “The Train They Call the City of New Orleans” (2003), which is little more than the lyrics to Steve Goodman’s classic 1970 song, illustrated by Michael McCurdy. What a good idea. You’ve got to be willing to whisper-sing to your kids to put this over.
然后就是《名叫新奥尔良的火车》(The Train They Call the City of New Orleans, 2003)。这本书的内容跟1970年史蒂夫·古德曼(Steve Goodman)创作的同名经典歌词差不多，由迈克尔·麦柯迪 (Michael McCurdy)配上插图。多好的主意啊。你肯定乐意向孩子们低声吟唱。
We didn’t, when our kids were young, only read picture books at bedtime. One of Cree’s best inventions was the “popcorn reading party.” Here’s how you have a popcorn reading party: a) You make popcorn. b) You gather a pile of your best kids’ books. c) You yell, “popcorn reading party!” d) You try to work it out so that the kids books end at about the same time the popcorn does.
孩子们还小的时候，我们不是只在睡觉前读图画书。克里的最佳创意之一是“爆米花读书派对”。它的操作步骤是这样的：1) 把爆米花做上。2) 把你最喜欢的童书都拿出来。3) 大喊“爆米花读书派对！”4) 尽量保证童书读完的时候，爆米花正好做好。
We read plenty of classics to our kids. But I’ve intentionally omitted Aesop, the Brothers Grimm, Doctor Seuss or other classic practitioners here. They don’t need my assistance.
我们给孩子们读了很多经典作品。但是我有意跳过了《伊索寓言》、《格林童话》和《苏斯博士》(Doctor Seuss)等经典作品。因为这些书不需要我的协助孩子们也能读。
It’s a treat to be able to pass along news of a few lesser-known books that I’m certain will pass the Eden Test. Someday my kids will open these boxes, gasp with delight, and eagerly read them to their own.
这些不那么知名的图书肯定能通过伊登的考验。能使它们传承下去，真是件令人开心的事。有一天我的孩子们将打开这些箱子，满心欢喜，热切地将这些书读给自己的孩子们。
FAMILY FAVORITES
家庭最爱的图画书：
The list, in alphabetical order:
（按字母顺序排序）：
HANS DE BEER “Little Polar Bear”
汉斯·德·比尔：《小北极熊》
TOMIE DE PAOLA “The Knight and the Dragon”
汤米·狄波拉(Tomie De Paola)：《骑士和火龙》(The Knight and the Dragon)
JULES FEIFFER “Bark, George”
朱尔斯·菲弗(Jules Feiffer)：《汪汪乔治》(Bark, George)
JULES FEIFFER “I Lost My Bear”
朱尔斯·菲弗：《我丢了我的熊》(I Lost My Bear)
NEIL GAIMAN AND DAVE MCKEAN “The Wolves in the Walls”
尼尔·盖曼和戴夫·麦基恩：《墙中狼》
ARTHUR GEISERT “The Giant Ball of String”
阿瑟·盖泽特:《巨大的线球》
STEVE GOODMAN AND MICHAEL MCCURDY “The Train They Call the City of New Orleans”
史蒂夫·古德曼和迈克尔·麦柯迪：《名叫新奥尔良的火车》
RUSSELL HOBAN AND LILLIAN HOBAN “Bread and Jam for Frances”
罗素·霍本(Russell Hoban和莉莲·霍本(Lillian Hoban)：《弗朗西丝的面包和果酱》(Bread and Jam for Frances)
MUNRO LEAF AND ROBERT LAWSON “The Story of Ferdinand”
蒙罗·利夫(Munro Leaf)和罗伯特·劳森(Robert Lawson)：《费迪南德的故事》(The Story of Ferdinand)
ASTRID LINDGREN AND HARALD WIBERG “The Tomten and the Fox”
阿斯特丽德·林德格伦(Astrid Lindgren)和哈拉尔德·维贝格(Harld Wiberg)：《汤姆登和狐狸》(The Tomten and the Fox)
PEGGY RATHMANN “The Day the Babies Crawled Away”
佩姬·拉特曼：《婴儿们爬走的那一天》
COLEEN SALLEY AND JANET STEVENS “Epossumondas”
科林·萨莉和珍妮特·史蒂文斯：《爱泼萨蒙达》
MAURICE SENDAK “In the Night Kitchen”
莫里斯·森达克(MAURICE SENDAK)：《夜晚的厨房》(In the Night Kitchen)
MARK ALAN STAMATY “Who Needs Donuts?”
马克·艾伦·斯达马提：《谁需要甜甜圈》
SANDRA STEEN, SUSAN STEEN AND G. BRIAN KARAS “Car Wash”
桑德拉·斯蒂恩(Sandra Steen)，苏珊·斯蒂恩(Susan Steen)和G·布莱恩·卡拉斯(G. Brian Karas)：《洗车》(Car Wash)