MORE than eight million people get sick with tuberculosis every year, according to the World Health Organization. In 2011, 1.4 million died from it, making it the world’s deadliest infectious disease after AIDS. Thanks to billions of dollars spent on diagnosis and treatment over the past decade, deaths and infections are slowly declining. Yet a disturbing phenomenon has emerged that could not only reverse any gains we’ve made, but also encourage the spread of a newly resistant form of the disease.
据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)透露，每年有超过800万人罹患结核病。2011年，有140万人死于结核病，这使结核病成为除艾滋病以外世界上最致命的传染病。幸亏过去十年间在疾病诊断和治疗方面投入了数十亿美元，结核病的死亡率和感染率在慢慢下降。但现在出现了一个令人不安的现象，这种现象不仅会让我们前功尽弃，还会刺激新型耐药性结核病的传播。
In the largest study of its kind, to be published today in the International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, colleagues and I have found that fake and poorly made antibiotics are being widely used to treat tuberculosis. These substandard drugs are almost certainly making the disease more resistant to drugs, posing a grave health threat to communities around the world.
通过开展这一领域最大规模的研究，我和同事们发现，假冒伪劣的抗生素正被广泛用于结核病的治疗，《国际结核病与肺部疾病杂志》(International Journal of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease)将在今天刊登我们的研究成果。几乎可以肯定的是，这些不合格药品导致结核菌抗药性增强，给世界各地的民众带来了严重的健康威胁。
Our research team collected samples of two commonly used medicines, isoniazid and rifampicin, from neighborhood pharmacies and markets in 17 countries where tuberculosis is pervasive across Africa, Asia, South America and Europe. Nearly one of every 10 pills we collected failed to meet basic quality standards. In African countries, one in six pills was substandard.
我们的研究小组从17个国家的社区药店和市场中收集了异烟肼(isoniazid)和利福平(rifampicin)两种常用药品的样本，在这些非洲、亚洲、南美和欧洲的国家中，结核病是一种非常普遍的疾病。我们收集的药品中，几乎每十粒就有一粒没达到基本的质量标准。在非洲国家，六分之一的药品不合格。
Failing pills typically had too little of the active ingredient — the molecule that destroys tuberculosis bacteria. Most of these drugs came from legitimate manufacturers; they were either poorly made or corroded in transit. The rest appeared genuine, but after researchers tested them and more closely analyzed the packaging, they turned out to be fakes — produced and distributed through criminal enterprises. A pack of fake pills might sell for a dollar on the streets of India, but estimates of the global market for fake drugs range into the tens of billions of dollars.
通常，不合格药品中消灭结核病菌的有效成分含量极低。其中大多数药品是由合法制药商生产的，它们要么是制造工艺低下，要么在运输途中受损。其余药品像是真的，但在研究人员对药品进行测试、对包装进行更仔细地研究后发现，这些药是通过犯罪集团生产和销售的假冒产品。在印度的大街上，一包假药可能会卖1美元（约合6.23元人民币），但全球市场中假药的价值估计高达数百亿美元。
The World Health Organization recommends that tuberculosis patients receive supervised treatment and quality medicines provided by public health departments. But traveling to the clinics where this treatment is dispensed can be very expensive, especially for poorer patients. Private markets for tuberculosis drugs — where we procured our samples — are often easier to access. For patients in Zambia, for example, treatment through the national tuberculosis program is three times more expensive than self-administering treatment with drugs purchased at local markets. In addition, counterfeiters in emerging markets can infiltrate the legitimate supply chain by submitting falsified paperwork and lying about where the drugs originated. When this happens, most pharmacists have no idea that the products they sell won’t work.
世卫组织建议结核病患者接受“全监督治疗”，服用公共卫生部门提供的优质药。但前往提供这种治疗方法的诊所的费用可能非常高，特别是对那些贫穷患者来说。人们通常很容易在结核药私人市场购买到药品，我们的样品就源自这些市场。例如，对于赞比亚的病人来说，通过国家结核病项目治疗疾病的费用比在当地市场购买药品进行自我治疗的费用高三倍。此外，新兴市场的仿制者可以通过提交伪造文件、编造药品来源地进入合法供应链。出现这种情况时，大多数药剂师都不知道他们出售的药品不会发挥药效。
Some patients will die outright when shoddy medicines fail to cure them. Others will take drugs with too little active ingredient, killing some of their infection’s bacteria but leaving the strongest to multiply. These patients could go on to spread a drug-resistant form of the disease, which is deadlier and vastly more expensive to control.
当一些病人服用假药而无法治愈时，他们会马上死亡。其他人会服用有效成分含量极低的药，这些药会杀死一些传染病病菌，但会导致最强壮的病菌大量繁殖。这些病人进而会传播一种耐药性结核病，这种疾病更为致命，而控制相关病情的费用也要高得多。
Back in the 1990s, New York City spent more than $1 billion on an epidemic of drug-resistant tuberculosis. Today, curing a single case of it in the United States can cost more than $200,000. The financial and public health risks for Americans are so great that the Department of Homeland Security has called the most lethal known form of the disease, an extremely drug-resistant tuberculosis called XDR-TB, an “emerging threat to the homeland.” Virtually unknown 10 years ago, XDR-TB has now been identified in at least 77 countries — including the United States.
20世纪90年代，纽约市治疗耐药性结核传染病的费用高达10亿美元。而如今，在美国治疗一个这种病患的费用就超过20万美元。这对美国的经济和公共健康带来了巨大风险，因此国土安全部(Homeland Security Department)已将已知的最致命的结核病——XDR-TB称作“针对美国的新威胁”。这种广泛耐药性结核十年前还不为人知，但现在至少有77个国家确认存在这种疾病，其中包括美国。
The Food and Drug Administration recently approved a drug called Sirturo, designed to target drug-resistant forms of the disease. While this provides a welcome new hope, we fear it will not be enough. Tuberculosis will not be brought under control until we reduce patients’ exposure to substandard medicines.
美国食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)最近批准了一种名为Sirturo的药品，它被专门用来治疗耐药性结核。虽然这个决定非常受欢迎，给人们带来新希望，但这可能还不够。如果我们不降低病人服用不合格药品的几率，结核病就不会得到控制。
This is not a problem for just the developing world. While stronger manufacturing practices, more effective regulatory agencies and more alert customs officials help protect the supply here, the United States is not impervious to bad drugs. Last fall, a generic version of Lipitor produced in India was recalled after it was found to contain particles of glass. Since the United States is currently facing a shortage of tuberculosis medicines, it will look to sources outside the country. It must ensure that these drugs are of sufficient quality.
这不只是发展中国家存在的问题。虽然美国的制药能力较强，监管机构能够更好地发挥作用，海关官员也更为警觉，帮助保护了美国的药品供应，但美国并非不受劣质药品的影响。去年秋天，印度生产的非专利药立普妥在被发现含有玻璃渣后被召回。由于美国目前面临结核药短缺的问题，美国将会依靠国外来源。因此，美国必须确保这些药物的质量过关。
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is best positioned to lead the fight against substandard and fraudulent tuberculosis drugs. The agency works with public health organizations around the world to stop health threats before they reach our shores. And it is run by Dr. Tom Frieden, who led New York City’s successful campaign against drug-resistant tuberculosis in the ’90s. The C.D.C. should work with the State Department’s new Office of Global Health Diplomacy and the World Bank to help foreign governments, law enforcement agencies and pharmaceutical companies strengthen drug supply chains and prevent companies from making substandard products.
美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)最适合来领导打击不合格及假冒结核药的行动。该机构与世界各地的公共健康组织合作，主动出击，在此类健康问题威胁到我们的国土之前将其消灭。该机构负责人是汤姆·弗里登(Tom Frieden)，他曾在20世纪90年代带领纽约民众成功抗击耐药性结核病。疾控中心应该与国务院新设立的全球卫生外交办公室(Office of Global Health Diplomacy)及世界银行(World Bank)合作，帮助外国政府、执法机构，以及制药公司强化药品供应链，防止一些公司生产不合格药品。
They should follow the lead of the President’s Malaria Initiative, which tests every batch of drugs it provides to patients in poor countries, and encourage authorities to do the same for tuberculosis drugs. Drug regulators should also confirm that available medicines are really registered where they say they are (we found that unregistered medicines were more likely to be substandard). Finally, they must prosecute and imprison makers of lethal fake drugs.
它们应该效仿总统防治疟疾行动计划(President’s Malaria Initiative)——对美国为贫穷国家的病患提供的每一批药品进行测试，并敦促相关的政府部门对结核药采取同样措施。药品监管机构应该确认现有药品的注册地真实可靠（我们发现未经注册的药品更有可能不符合标准）。最后，他们必须起诉、监禁致命假药的制造者。
As long as substandard tuberculosis drugs are permitted in the marketplace, people will continue to die in pursuit of a cure. And without a coordinated response, growing resistance will eventually render even the highest quality drugs obsolete.
只要市场上存在不合格的结核药，人们仍会为了治疗疾病而死亡。如果不展开协调一致的行动，日益加大的耐药性将最终致使最优质的药品不再有效。