A fake news article led to gunfire at a Washington pizzeria three weeks ago. Now it seems that another fake news story has prompted the defense minister of Pakistan to threaten to go nuclear.
三周前，一则假新闻引发了华盛顿一家比萨店里的枪声。而现在，另一则假新闻导致巴基斯坦国防部长发出了核打击的威胁。
The defense minister, Khawaja Muhammad Asif, wrote a saber-rattling Twitter post directed at Israel on Friday after a false report — which the minister apparently believed — that Israel had threatened Pakistan with nuclear weapons. Both countries have nuclear arsenals.
国防部长赫瓦贾·穆罕默德·阿西夫(Khawaja Muhammad Asif)周五在Twitter上发帖，对以色列发出了武力威胁，原因是看到了一则假新闻——部长显然认为以色列在用核武器威胁巴基斯坦。两国都拥有核武库。
“Israeli def min threatens nuclear retaliation presuming pak role in Syria against Daesh,” the minister wrote on his official Twitter account, using an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. “Israel forgets Pakistan is a Nuclear state too.”
“以色列国防部威胁要对所谓的巴基斯坦在叙利亚打击达伊什(Daesh)进行核报复，以色列忘了巴基斯坦也是一个核国家。”部长在他的官方Twitter帐号上写道。达伊什是伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的阿拉伯语首字母缩写。
Mr. Asif appeared to be reacting to a fake news article published on awdnews.com.
阿西夫似乎是在对awdnews.com上的一则假新闻做出反应。
That story, with the typo-laden headline “Israeli Defense Minister: If Pakistan send ground troops to Syria on any pretext, we will destroy this country with a nuclear attack,” appeared on the website on Dec. 20, alongside articles with headlines like “Clinton is staging a military coup against Trump.”
这篇错字连篇的假新闻的标题叫《以色列国防部长：如果巴基斯坦以任何借口派遣地面部队到叙利亚，我们将用核攻击毁灭这个国家》，12月20日，它和题为《克林顿正在对特朗普发动军事政变》之类的文章一起出现在awdnews.com网站上。
The fake story about Israel even misidentified the country’s defense minister, attributing quotations to a former minister, Moshe Yaalon. Israel’s current minister of defense is Avigdor Lieberman.
这则关于以色列的假新闻甚至弄错了该国的国防部长，文中提到的摩西·亚阿隆(Moshe Yaalon)是前任部长。以色列现任国防部长是阿维格多·利伯曼(Avigdor Lieberman)。
The Israeli Defense Ministry responded on Twitter to say the report was fictitious.
以色列国防部在Twitter上回应说，这是篇假新闻。
“The statement attributed to fmr Def Min Yaalon re Pakistan was never said,” the ministry wrote in Twitter post directed at Mr. Asif. The Israeli ministry added in a second post: "Reports referred to by the Pakistani Def Min are entirely false.”
“该声明中提到的亚阿隆从来没有那样说过巴基斯坦，”以色列国防部直接在Twitter上对阿西夫表示。该部门又发了第二个帖子说：“巴基斯坦国防部长提到的报道完全是假的。”
Mr. Asif did not respond to the Israelis on Twitter, and as of Saturday his message had been reposted nearly 400 times. Many of the people reacting to Mr. Asif on Twitter mocked him for his mistake.
截止周六，阿西夫没有在Twitter上回应以色列，他的信息已经被转发了近400次。很多人在Twitter上回应阿西夫，嘲笑他的这个错误。
The proliferation of fake news stories — spread on social networks and produced by a variety of sources including pranksters, foreign governments and enterprising individuals who hope to receive advertising revenue by driving traffic to their websites — has become an increasingly serious problem.
假新闻蔓延已经成为一个越来越严重的问题，它们在社交网络上广为传播，造谣者当中既有恶作剧者，也有外国政府，还有为了获得广告收入而希望为自己的网站带来流量的唯利是图者。
A North Carolina man was arrested on Dec. 4 after firing a gun at a Washington pizza parlor, because investigators said he was investigating claims in fake news articles that the pizzeria was at the center of a child sex slave ring linked to Hillary Clinton.
12月4日，一名北卡罗来纳州男子在华盛顿一家比萨店开枪后被捕，调查人员说他看到一则假消息，称这个比萨饼店是一个儿童性奴隶中心，和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)有关，于是他前去调查。