KIEV, Ukraine — Ukrainians have long struggled with fake news from Russia, but last week, they discovered something even more insidious: a fake journalist.
乌克兰基辅——乌克兰人长期以来一直在与俄罗斯的假新闻做斗争，但是上周，他们发现了更阴险的事：一名假记者。
The man was tall and dapper. He wore a dark suit and spoke with a French accent. When he met politicians in Kiev, he introduced himself as Alex Werner, a reporter with the French newspaper Le Monde.
这个男人身材高大，衣冠楚楚。他穿着黑色西服，讲话带有法语口音。他在基辅与政治人士会面时，自称亚历山大·沃纳(Alex Werner)，说自己是法国《世界报》(Le Monde)的记者。
“He was elegant, calm and confident,” recalled Amina Okuyeva, who is a minor celebrity in Ukraine because she served with her husband as a volunteer soldier in the war against separatists in the eastern part of the country. Mr. Werner had interviewed her several times.
“他优雅平静，充满自信，”阿明娜·奥库耶娃(Amina Okuyeva)回忆说。因为和丈夫一起在该国东部打击分裂分子的战斗中担任志愿战士，她在乌克兰小有名气。沃纳采访过她几次。
It was midway through one of those purported interviews, in a terrifying flash of gunpowder, that Mr. Werner’s true identity came to light: He was, in fact, a Chechen assassin, the Ukrainian authorities now say.
在一次假冒的采访中，在一道可怕的枪火闪光中，沃纳暴露出自己的真实身分：现在，乌克兰当局称，他实际上是车臣的一名杀手。
Under the guise of a journalist, the assassin, Artur Denisultanov-Kurmakayev, tried to murder Ms. Okuyeva and her husband, Adam Osmayev, Ukraine’s Interior Ministry said.
乌克兰内政部表示，杀手阿尔图尔·丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫(Artur Denisultanov-Kurmakayev)以记者的身分做掩护，试图谋杀奥库耶娃和她丈夫亚当·奥斯马耶夫(Adam Osmayev)。
The plot went awry because Ms. Okuyeva was also armed, and the details of the attack and its aftermath are now shedding light on Kiev’s role as a testing ground for what Ukrainian officials say are hybrid war activities by Russia, including assassinations.
这个阴谋失败了，因为奥库耶娃也带有武器。本次袭击的细节和后续发生的事情表明，基辅成了乌克兰官员所称的俄罗斯混合战争行为的一个试验场，其中包括暗杀行为。
The attack was the third high-profile killing or attempted killing in Kiev that the Ukranian authorities have attributed to the Russian security services, but the first in which the accused killer impersonated a journalist.
这次袭击是在基辅发生的乌克兰当局归罪于俄罗斯安全机构的第三起备受瞩目的刺杀或未遂刺杀，但它是第一起杀手假冒记者的案件。
In a statement published June 3, Le Monde said it “wants to stress that none of its journalists are in Ukraine at the moment and that its staff does not include an Alex Werner. Le Monde firmly condemns any impersonation of its journalists or of its title, for whatever purpose.”
《世界报》在6月3日发表的声明中表示，它“想强调，在那个时间点，它在乌克兰没有任何记者，它的员工中没有亚历山大·沃纳。《世界报》强烈谴责为任何目的假冒它的记者或头衔的行为”。
In 2006, the Russian government legalized targeted killings abroad of people posing terrorist threats, resuming a Soviet-era practice. But the Kremlin has never acknowledged using the authority granted under the law and has vehemently denied specific accusations, including those in Ukraine.
2006年，俄罗斯政府认定在国外定点杀死具有恐怖主义威胁的人士合法，重新开始实行苏联时代的做法。不过，克里姆林宫从未承认使用过自己依法获得的这项权力，激烈否认具体的指控，包括在乌克兰发生的那些刺杀。
As “Mr. Werner,” Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev had lived for more than a year in Kiev, mingling with politicians and anti-Russian activists before the shooting on June 1.
丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫以“沃纳”的身分在基辅住了一年多，在6月1日行刺前，与政治人士和反俄罗斯活动人士打成一片。
The cover was good but not flawless, Ms. Okuyeva said in an interview, her first with a foreign news organization since the attempted murder. She was accompanied by two bodyguards who were on high alert throughout the interview.
奥库耶娃在遭到未遂刺杀后首次接受外国新闻机构采访时表示，丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫的假冒身分很好，但并非没有漏洞。她在采访过程中一直有两名保镖陪伴，他们始终处于高度警戒状态。
One indication that Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev was not who he said he was: He always carried a notebook but never bothered to write in it, Ms. Okuyeva said. He wore an expensive-looking suit, also a hint that something may have been amiss.
奥库耶娃称，丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫身分造假的一个迹象是：他总是带着一个笔记本，但从来不在上面写东西。他身穿看似非常昂贵的西服，那也表明，这里面可能有问题。
There was nothing unusual in the request for an interview, however. “The press often asked for interviews,” Ms. Okuyeva said. “The media loves to write about us.”
不过，采访要求并不罕见。“报纸经常要求采访我们，”奥库耶娃说，“媒体喜欢写我们的故事。”
Ms. Okuyeva and Mr. Osmayev, both ethnic Chechens, are well known in Ukraine. In 2012, the Russian government accused Mr. Osmayev of plotting to kill Vladimir V. Putin, who was then the prime minister. Mr. Osmayev was arrested in Ukraine, but his extradition to Russia was blocked by the European Court of Human Rights.
奥库耶娃和奥斯马耶夫都是车臣族人，他们在乌克兰相当知名。2012年，俄罗斯政府指控奥斯马耶夫谋划杀害时任总理弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，奥斯马耶夫在乌克兰被捕，不过将他引渡到俄罗斯的要求被欧洲人权法庭(European Court of Human Rights)阻止。
After the Ukrainian revolution in 2014, he was released, and he and his wife joined a unit of ethnic Chechens fighting in the war in the east, the Dzhokhar Dudayev battalion. Mr. Osmayev has been its commander since 2015. Ms. Okuyeva served as a sniper, wearing a camouflaged head scarf at the front.
2014年乌克兰革命后，他被释放，他和妻子加入了一个在东部作战的车臣小分队，也就是焦哈尔·杜达耶夫(Dzhokhar Dudayev)的队伍。奥斯马耶夫从2015年起担任指挥官。奥库耶娃担任狙击兵，她戴着迷彩头巾，冲在前线。
Gaining fame as enemies of Russia carried risks. The couple knew they were targets. “Putin is personally interested in getting rid of us,” Ms. Okuyeva said.
获得俄罗斯敌人的名声是有风险的。这对夫妇知道自己是刺杀目标。“普京本人很想干掉我们，”奥库耶娃说。
The putative Mr. Werner met three times with the couple in Kiev coffee shops from May 20 until June 1, explaining that he planned an in-depth article.
从5月20日到6月1日，假冒的沃纳和这对夫妇在基辅的咖啡馆会面了三次，他声称自己打算写一篇深度报道。
Before the fourth meeting, Ms. Okuyeva said, he asked the couple to pick him up in their car and drive to the French Embassy, and he also said he had a gift from his bosses at Le Monde.
奥库耶娃说，第四次会面前，他让这对夫妇开自己的车接他去法国大使馆，还说他在《世界报》的上司给他们捎了一件礼物。
“There were a lot of small, strange things, and my intuition told me not to meet with him,” Ms. Okuyeva said, but she ignored the misgivings.
“有很多奇怪的小事，我的直觉告诉我不要跟他会面，”奥库耶娃说。但她忽视了这些疑虑。
As they drove, Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev asked the pair to stop the car for an interview and to sit in the back to receive the gift, which he carried in a festive red cardboard box.
在车子行驶过程中，丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫让这对夫妇停车接受采访，坐在后排座位上接受礼物，他把礼物放在一个很喜庆的红色纸盒里。
As the couple sat in the back seat of the car, Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev said, “‘Now, here is your gift,’” Ms. Okuyeva said. He opened the box, pulled out a gun and opened fire on Mr. Osmayev.
奥库耶娃说，他们夫妇俩坐到后排座位上后，丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫说，“‘现在，请看你们的礼物’”。他打开盒子，拿出枪，朝奥斯马耶夫开枪。
A shot hit Mr. Osmayev on the right side of his chest. But he was not immediately incapacitated and struggled with the shooter for control of the gun. Ms. Okuyeva, however, long fearful of assassination attempts, was carrying a pistol under her coat, as well as a tube of the blood-clotting agent Celox in her purse. She shot Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev four times as he and her husband fought. Both were gravely wounded but survived.
有一枪击中了他的右胸。不过，他没有马上失去行动能力，开始与枪手搏斗，争夺手枪。奥库耶娃一直担心遭到暗杀，所以外套里面总是藏着一把手枪，手包里也总是放着一管止血用的赛菲凝(Celox)。在丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫和她的丈夫搏斗时，奥库耶娃射中了前者四次。两人都严重受伤，但都活了下来。
“I will always be thankful,” Mr. Osmayev said in an interview of his wife’s quick draw. “Because of her reaction, we are both alive today.”
“我会一直感激她，”奥斯马耶夫在采访中提起妻子的快速反应时说。“因为她的反应，我们两个今天才都能活下来。”
The survival of the assassin could elevate the importance of the case, should investigators obtain his cooperation.
杀手活了下来，可能会提升这个事件的重要性——前提是调查者能让他有所配合。
In March, a former Russian lawmaker who fled to Ukraine, Denis N. Voronenkov, was gunned down on a sidewalk outside the Premier Palace hotel in Kiev. Mr. Voronenkov’s bodyguard shot and killed the attacker. Last year, a car bomb killed a journalist, Pavel Sheremet, on a central street of the capital, and no arrests were made.
今年3月，逃往乌克兰的前俄罗斯议员丹尼斯·N·沃罗年科夫(Denis N. Voronenkov)在基辅总理宫酒店(Premier Palace)外的人行道上被枪杀。沃罗年科夫的保镖击毙了袭击者。去年，记者帕维尔·舍列梅特(Pavel Sheremet)在基辅市中心一条大街上被汽车炸弹炸死，行凶者至今仍然逍遥法外。
After the attack on Mr. Osmayev and Ms. Okuyeva, Ukraine’s Interior Ministry and lawmakers blamed the Russian intelligence services. Ukraine’s SBU intelligence agency, however, has said there is insufficient evidence to determine whether the killer pretending to be a journalist was a Russian agent, but it has not ruled out that possibility.
对奥斯马耶夫和奥库耶娃的袭击发生后，乌克兰内政部和多名议员指责俄罗斯情报机构。不过，乌克兰的情报机构国家安全局(SBU)表示，没有足够的证据可以确定假冒记者的杀手是俄罗斯特工，但也没有排除这种可能性。
“For the world community, what is important is we have proof Russia is committing terrorist acts in other countries,” said Anton Gerashenko, a lawmaker. “His tongue may loosen to say who sent him here and why,” he said of Mr. Denisultanov-Kurmakayev.
“对全世界来说，最重要的是，我们有证据证明，俄罗斯正在其他国家进行恐怖主义活动，”议员安东·杰拉申科(Anton Gerashenko)说。“他可能会松口说出是谁以及为什么派他到这里，”杰拉申科在提到丹尼索尔塔诺夫-库尔马卡耶夫时表示。