It's well known by now that active people typically live longer than those who are sedentary. But precisely what types or amounts of exercise most affect life span has not been clear. Several new studies, though, are beginning to provide some clarity, suggesting that certain activities may be better than others in terms of affecting mortality risk.
爱运动的人通常比久坐不动之人活得更久，这已是人尽皆知的事情了。可是深究起来，到底什么样、多大量的运动最延年益寿至今尚不清楚。不过，最近有不少新研究正逐渐让答案清晰——某些类型的运动可能真的在影响死亡风险上更胜一筹。
Perhaps the most memorable of the new studies was conducted by researchers in Europe who turned to a large database of health information about middle-aged British civil servants. The workers, ages 35 to 55 at the start, were followed for a decade or so, during which time they filled out repeated health questionnaires.
最让人印象深刻的，大概要数欧洲研究者依据英国中年公务员健康信息大型数据库所做的这项新研究了。研究开始时这些公务员的年龄为35至55岁，在其后10年的跟踪调查期间，他们需不断完成健康信息问卷。
The topics included each man or woman's physical activity during the previous month. Specifically, the questionnaires asked about the number of hours that the volunteers had spent walking, gardening, performing housework, playing sports (swimming, cycling, golf or soccer) and puttering around the house completing yardwork and do-it-yourself repair projects.
题目包括每位男性或女性上个月的体育锻炼状况。具体来说，问卷要求参与者填上他们在走路、园艺、做家务、运动（游泳、骑车、打高尔夫或足球），以及在房子周围不停走动进行庭院打理和自己修理物件上所消耗的小时数。
Each activity was designated as "mild," like washing the dishes and cooking; "moderate," encompassing weeding and brisk walking; or "vigorous," which here included swimming and mowing the yard. (Riding mowers apparently didn't factor in.)
每项运动都标定了“轻微”（像洗碗、做饭一类）、“适度”（包括除杂草和快步走）或者“剧烈”（比如游泳和割草——骑在割草机上这种显然不算）几个等级。
The researchers also checked death records for the civil servants.
研究者还调查了公务员相应的死亡记录。
They found that in general, physical activity of any kind was associated with longer life. But the association was much stronger among those people whose activities were relatively intense. Those who regularly painted and repaired their houses or walked briskly enjoyed more protection against premature death than those who washed dishes, even if people spent more overall hours engaged in "mild" activities.
他们发现，基本上任何形式的体育运动都能与长寿挂上钩，不过这种关联在运动较为剧烈的人身上体现得更为明显。经常刷墙、修理房屋、快步行走的人比刷盘子的人享受着更好的“防早逝保护”——即使那些从事“轻度”运动的人实际花的总时间更长。
That finding agrees with those of a study published this year in The European Journal of Preventive Cardiology, in which scientists in Copenhagen followed 5,106 adult recreational cyclists for about 18 years, asking their volunteers to occasionally report how many hours and how strenuously they were riding their bikes.
这个结论与今年发表在《欧洲预防心脏病杂志》(The European Journal of Preventive Cardiology)上的一项研究是一致的。此研究中，哥本哈根的科学家们利用18年时间跟踪调查了5106名成年业余自行车手，请他们间或汇报一下自己骑了几个小时车和骑得有多剧烈。
The researchers also tracked deaths among the group.
研究者同样也追踪了参与者的死亡记录。
It turned out that the men and women who reported riding relatively hard (although none were racers) lived longer than those who rode at an easy pace, even if they weren't pedaling for as many hours. On average, cyclists who regularly rode hard lived about four or five years longer than those who went at a more leisurely pace.
结果是无论男女，报告说自己骑得比较猛的（虽然都不是比赛选手）都比骑得轻松的人更长寿——即便他们没有一连骑上好几个小时。平均而言，经常骑得较剧烈的人比用缓和速度骑车的人多活大概四到五年时间。
"Our general recommendations to all adults would be that brisk cycling is preferable to slow," the authors conclude.
“我们给所有成年人的一般建议是：快骑比慢骑好。”作者总结说。
But not all researchers are convinced that intense exercise is essential, if your goal is a longer life. The general consensus among most researchers studying exercise and longevity "is that it is the total amount of energy expended that is important," and not whether you huff and strain during that expenditure, says Dr. I-Min Lee, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, an author of a major new examination of exercise and life expectancy.
然而，并非所有科学家都信服“想长寿，剧烈运动是关键”这一论点。哈佛大学医学院(Harvard Medical School)医学教授李艾敏博士（I-Min Lee，音译）说，大多数钻研锻炼与长寿关系的人的普遍共识为：最重要的是“能量消耗总量”，而不是耗能过程中有没有挥汗如雨大张旗鼓。李博士是一篇新的运动与寿命关系的重要研究的作者。
In that study, published last week in PLoS Medicine, Dr. Lee and colleagues from the National Cancer Institute and other institutions compiled physical activity, body mass and mortality data for more than 650,000 American adults who'd participated in National Cancer Institute studies over the years.
这项研究于11月6日发表在《公共科学图书馆·医学》(PLoS Medicine)上。李博士和来自美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)及其他机构的同事们将65万多名多年来参与着国家癌症研究所的调查的美国成年人作为对象，收集了他们锻炼、体重与死亡的数据。
The researchers compared the volunteers' activity levels against the current governmental recommendation of 150 minutes of moderate activity (like brisk walking) per week. They found that those who met the recommendation lived on average 3.4 years longer than people who didn't exercise. Those who ambitiously doubled the recommended amount of weekly exercise enjoyed additional gains in life span, but at a noticeably diminishing rate, typically living 10 months or so longer than those who just met the guidelines.
研究者将参与者的运动水平与现在政府推荐的“每周150分钟适度运动（比如快走）”做了比较，发现达到推荐运动量的人比全然不动的人平均长寿3.4年；而那些严格要求自己，每周达到两倍推荐运动量的人则活得更久一些，但增加量就显然少多了：基本比达到标准运动量的人长寿10个月左右。
Even people who were overweight or obese lived longer if they exercised moderately, whether or not they lost weight during the study period.
在调查期间，即使是超重或肥胖的人，无论减肥与否，只要适度运动都能活得更长。
Interestingly, the association between physical activity and longer life held true also for those volunteers who reported exercising only occasionally. "A very low level of activity, equivalent to 10 minutes per day of walking, was associated with a gain of almost two years of life expectancy," says Steven Moore, a research fellow with the National Cancer Institute, who led the study.
有趣的是，运动与长寿间的关联在称自己只是偶尔运动的受访者身上亦有所体现。“相当于每天走10分钟这样的很低的运动水平，也能让人多活将近两年。”美国国家癌症研究所领导此调查的研究员史蒂文·穆尔(Steven Moore)提到。
In fact, he says, "maximum longevity was reached at a physical activity level equivalent to 65 minutes per day of walking, with no evidence for gains above this level of activity."
事实上，他说：“以每天步行65分钟这样的运动量来运动可达最长寿命，没有证据表明增加运动量会更有裨益。”
What all of this suggests, Dr. Lee says, is "that physical activity, even at a modest level, can increase life expectancy."
综上所述，李博士说：“只要是运动，哪怕只在最轻微的水平上，也有助于长寿。”
But it's also probable, although not yet definitively proven, she continues, that "intense exercise gives additional benefit above the risk reduction afforded by energy expenditure alone."
不过也有可能——尽管还没有被确切证实——她继续道：“比起消耗了能量这一单一因素而言，剧烈运动在减少死亡风险上或许提供了额外的帮助。”
In other words, pushing yourself during your next walk, bike ride or home-repair project might amplify the activity's longevity-enhancing benefits, Dr. Lee says. But if you don't wish to or cannot increase the intensity of your exercise, don't sweat it.
李博士说，换言之，下次走路、骑车或修理东西的时候鼓励自己再加把劲，也许还真能增进运动所带来的长寿效果呢。但如果你不愿意或不能再增加锻炼强度了，那就别蛮干。
The largest gain in terms of adding years to someone's life, she says, comes in that space between "doing nothing to achieving the lower end of the activity scale," which makes even the usually tedious prospect of washing this morning's breakfast dishes more palatable.
她说，从“完全不动到以最低标准运动”，对寿命提高作用最显著的。这下，通常让人郁闷不已的刷早餐盘子这种事，可就变得相当能让人接受了。