Researchers long ago established a link between having sex and feeling pleased with yourself and the world. In a representative recent study of 1,000 women, for example, the participants ranked sex as No.1 among the activities that made them the happiest. Data from 16,000 American adults on incomes, sexual activity and happiness led economists to conclude in a much-­discussed 2004 study that increasing the frequency of intercourse from once a month to once a week increased happiness to the same extent as having an additional $50,000 in the bank.
很早之前，研究人员就证明了性爱和幸福感之间的关联。例如，最近一项很有代表性的研究调查了1000名女性，发现她们把性爱排在了“最令自己开心的活动”的第一位。2004年，经济学家研究了1.6万名美国成年人的收入、性生活和幸福感数据，得出结论说，把每月做爱一次的频率增加到每周一次，对提升幸福感的效果无异于在银行存款多了5万美元。这项研究引起了人们的热议。
But while these and similar studies, which relied on surveys, revealed an association between sex and happiness, they did not show that more sex actually causes greater happiness. Perhaps happier people just happen to have more sex. To establish causation, scientists needed to get couples to have sex more often and then see if that made them happier.
诸如此类的研究使用了问卷调查的方式，虽然它们揭示了性爱与幸福感之间的关联，但却不能说明更频繁的性爱确实会带来更大的幸福感。也许是更快乐的人碰巧拥有更频繁的性生活。要让因果关系成立，科学家需要让伴侣们更加频繁地做爱，然后再看看他们是否变得更快乐了。
Turns out it may not, according to a new study in the August issue of  The Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization.
《经济行为与组织杂志》 (The Journal of Economic Behavior& Organization)8月刊的一项新研究显示，答案可能是否定的。
For this study, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University and elsewhere recruited 64 adult couples, all married and heterosexual, and asked the volunteers how often they had sex, how enjoyable it was and how happy they were in general, based on standard questionnaires that measure mood and energy. Half the couples, picked randomly, were assigned to go about their lives as usual; the rest were told to double the frequency of sexual relations. If they had sex once a month (the minimum rate for inclusion in the study), make it twice; couples who had sex three times a week (the maximum rate for participants) were to go to six.
在这项研究中，卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)等机构的研究人员招募了64对成人伴侣，他们都已结婚，都是异性恋。研究人员使用衡量心情和能量的标准问卷，调查了志愿者们的性生活频率和质量，以及他们通常状态下的幸福感。然后随机挑选一半的夫妇，让他们像往常一样生活；并让另一半夫妇将性爱的频率增加一倍。如果他们每月做爱一次（参与这项研究的最低频率），那就增加到两次；如果每周做爱三次（参与这项研究的最高频率），那就增加到六次。
The subjects were also tasked with completing a short daily online questionnaire for the experiment’s duration, which was 90 days, about the amount and quality of their sex the previous day and their subsequent moods. Some couples in the experimental group actually did manage to double the rate of intercourse, and on average there was a 40 percent increase.
在90天的实验期内，受试者还需要每天完成一个简短的日常在线问卷，回答前一天他们的性生活数量和质量，以及随后的情绪状况。实验组中有些夫妇确实把性爱频率增加了一倍，但平均增长幅度为40%。
This did not make them happier. In fact, their well-­being declined, especially in measures of energy and enthusiasm, as did the quality of the sex. Both men and women reported that the additional intercourse wasn’t much fun. The results surprised the researchers — but they probably shouldn’t have, according to George Loewenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon, who led the study.
这并没有让他们变得更快乐。事实上，他们的幸福感还降低了，尤其是在能量和热情的指标上，而且他们性生活的质量也下降了。无论男方还是女方都表示，额外增加性爱没有太大乐趣。这个结果令研究人员感到惊讶——但他们可能不应该感到惊讶，该研究的负责人乔治·洛文斯顿(George Loewenstein)说。他是卡内基梅隆大学的经济学和心理学教授。
‘‘It seems that if you’re having sex for a reason other than because you like and want sex,’’ he says, you may undermine the quality of that sex and your resulting mood.
他说，“看来，如果你做爱有其他原因，而不是你喜欢和想做爱，”那可能就会削弱性爱的质量及其产生的情绪。
The lesson is not simply to avoid participating in academic sex studies. Instead, Dr. Loewenstein says, concentrate on quality rather than quantity if you wish to be happy. Studies associating sexual frequency and happiness may have missed the underlying link between the two, which is the pleasurability of the sex. People who like their couplings probably have more of them, and it is the pleasure of the act, he says, that raises moods, not how often it happens.
这里的教训不只是告诉人们要避免参与性方面的学术研究。洛文斯顿博士说，如果你想获得幸福感，那就要专注于性爱的质量而不是数量。对性爱频率和幸福感之间关联进行的研究，可能没有注意到两者之间的基本联系，那就是性爱的愉悦性。他说喜欢性爱的人可能会更多地做爱，提升情绪的是性的愉悦，而不是做爱的频率。