Question:
问：
Is Pilates better than yoga for strengthening exercises?
在力量练习方面，普拉提是否比瑜伽更好？
Asked by Rodin’s Muse
——Rodin’s Muse
Answer:
答：
The answer depends to a large degree on what it is you’re trying to strengthen.
答案在很大程度上取决于你想要增进哪方面的力量。
In general, Pilates exercises, originally developed by the fitness trainer Joseph Pilates, target the core muscles around the spine. If your aim is to strengthen your midsection, then Pilates is a fine choice. In a small but well-designed study last year, nine sedentary women who completed 36 weeks of supervised Pilates training bulked up their abdominal muscles by as much as 20 percent, while also lessening any existing muscular imbalances there.
总的来说，由健身教练约瑟夫·普拉提(Joseph Pilates)开发的普拉提训练，针对的是脊柱周围的核心肌群。如果你的目标是强化身体中段，那么普拉提是个很好的选项。去年一个规模较小但设计优良的研究发现，九位习惯静坐不动的女性在完成了36周经专人指导的普拉提训练后，腹部肌肉增加了多达20%，该部位原有的肌力不平衡问题也有所缓解。
“Pilates can be recommended as an effective method to reinforce the muscles of the abdominal wall and to compensate pre-existing asymmetric developments,” the authors said.
“在强化腹部肌肉群，减缓既有的肌肉不对称恶化上，普拉提可以推荐作为一种有效的训练手段，”研究作者表示。
But whether such training fortifies the rest of the body is questionable. A review last year of Pilates-related science found little credible evidence that the exercises added muscle or incinerated body fat apart from in the midsection.
但这种练习是否可强化身体的其他部位，尚不得而知。去年，一篇有篇普拉提研究的综述认为，现在尚无可靠证据证明，普拉提练习可以增加身体中段以外其他部位的肌肉或燃烧脂肪。
Yoga, however, especially hatha yoga, with its flowing poses, may strengthen larger sections of the body.
不过，瑜伽，尤其是哈达瑜伽，因其姿势是流动的，也许能增强全身更广泛的部位。
“Depending on the specific style, yoga is a quite intensive exercise intervention,” said Holger Cramer, a research fellow in integrative medicine at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany, who is studying the physical impact of yoga. A telling 2011 study published in the Asian Journal of Sports Medicine found that after six months of almost-daily sun salutations (a multipart yoga pose) and no other resistance training, young men and women could bench-press significantly more weight and complete far more push-ups and pull-ups than at the start of the study.
“视乎特定流派，瑜伽可以是一种颇为激烈的训练干预手段，”德国杜伊斯堡-埃森大学(University of Duisburg-Essen)结合医学研究员霍尔格·克莱默(Holger Cramer)介绍说。他目前研究的是瑜伽对身体的作用。2011年，一篇发表于《亚洲运动医学》(Asian Journal of Sports Medicine)的研究引人注目地发现，一群年轻男女进行拜日式体位练习（这是一种要练习身体各部位的瑜伽体位），而且没有进行其他任何阻力训练，在半年几乎每天勤练不辍的训练后，相比研究之初，他们卧推的重量显著增加，完成的俯卧撑和引体向上数也有明显上升。
The upshot? Pilates may be preferable if your primary goal is a solid core, but if you’re hoping to strengthen your upper body and goose your push-up tally, you’ll probably accomplish more with sun salutations and other yoga moves.
结论是？如果你的主要目标是练出有力的核心肌群，普拉提也许是个好选项；可如果你希望强化上半身，做更多的俯卧撑，也许通过练习拜日式和其他瑜伽姿势，能达成这个目标。