Should healthy women take drugs to lower their risk of breast cancer?
健康女性应该服用药物，以减少罹患乳腺癌的风险吗？
On Monday, an influential panel of experts said that the answer is yes, but only for certain women who are at increased risk because of breast cancer in the family or a personal history of breast lumps or other problems. Two drugs, tamoxifen and raloxifene, can lower the risk, and may be worth taking even though both can have serious adverse effects like blood clots and strokes, the experts said.
一个颇有影响力的专家小组在周一表示，答案是肯定的，但仅限于那些患病几率高于常人的女性，她们的家族中有人罹患乳腺癌或自己有乳腺肿块病史，又或者有着其他问题。专家表示，他莫昔芬和雷洛昔芬能够降低患病风险，虽然这两种药物会带来血栓、中风等严重的副作用，但它们或许仍然值得尝试。
The panel, the United States Preventive Services Task Force, recommended that for healthy women ages 40 to 70, doctors help assess the odds of breast cancer and offer to prescribe one of the drugs for patients whose risk is above average — but only if their chances of developing blood clots and strokes is low.
该专家小组——美国预防服务工作组(United States Preventive Services Task Force)建议，对于40岁至70岁的健康女性，医生应该帮助她们评估患上乳腺癌的几率，并主动为那些患病几率高于平均水平的女性开其中一种药，但前提是她们发生血栓和中风的几率较低。
Because of the adverse effects, the panel also advised that the drugs not be prescribed for women unless they are at increased risk of breast cancer.
由于这些药的副作用，该专家小组还建议，除非面临着更高的乳腺癌风险，医生不要为女性开这两种药。
“There is evidence of benefit for certain women,” said Dr. Wanda K. Nicholson, a task force member and an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill.
工作组成员、北卡罗莱纳大学教堂山分校(University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)医学院妇产学副教授万达·K·尼克尔森(Wanda K. Nicholson)表示，“有证据表明这些药物对某些女性有益。”
Dr. Nicholson said she recommended the drugs for some of her own higher-risk patients. Some take them; some choose not to.
尼克尔森表示，她建议自己的患病几率较高的病人服用上述药物。一些人选择吃药，一些人选择不吃。
“The take-home point for women is to have that initial conversation with their provider,” she said.
她说，“对于女性来说，最重要的是要与医生进行初步交谈。”
The task force recommendations are being published in draft form and are open for public comment until May 13. An analysis of research on which the recommendations were based was also being published in Annals of Internal Medicine. The advice matches that given by the task force in 2002 (the group re-evaluates many of its subjects once a decade), though the earlier report stopped short of telling doctors to offer to prescribe the drugs. Members of the group said they relied on a wealth of new data that helped confirm and clarify the risks and benefits of the two drugs, and how they measure up against one another.
工作组的建议已经以草稿的形式获得公布，目前正在征集公众意见，截止日期为5月13日。工作组根据一项研究提出了上述建议，《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)将发表这项研究的分析报告。此次的建议与工作组2002年给出的建议一致（该工作组每隔10年就会对很多课题进行重新评估），但之前的报告没有建议医生主动开药。工作组成员表示，他们的依据是大量的新数据，这些数据帮助他们确认、阐明这两种药物带来的风险和益处，对两种药物进行对比。
Tamoxifen and raloxifene have been recommended for years for women whose odds of developing breast cancer are higher than average. Both drugs block the effects of estrogen, and can lower the risk of the type of breast cancer whose growth is stimulated by the hormone. About 75 percent of breast cancers fall into that category. Tamoxifen is more commonly used to prevent recurrences in women who have already had breast cancer, and raloxifene is most often prescribed to prevent fractures in women with osteoporosis. Tamoxifen can also decrease the risk of fractures.
多年来，那些患病几率高于平均水平的女性都被推荐服用他莫昔芬和雷洛昔芬。有一类乳腺癌是因为受激素刺激而发病，两种药物都可以抑制雌性激素的影响，从而降低患上此类乳腺癌的风险。约有75%的乳腺癌患者属于此类病患。他莫昔芬更常用于防止乳腺癌患者病情复发，而雷洛昔芬最常用于防止患骨质疏松症的女性出现骨折。他莫昔芬也能降低骨折风险。
Doctors may see these drugs as a rare opportunity to lower the risk of cancer, but some women see them as simply trading one risk for another. Many healthy women, even if they are at increased risk, refuse the drugs, asking why they should take pills to lower the odds of a disease they may never get anyway, especially when the drugs can have dangerous or unpleasant side effects.
医生或许认为这些药物是降低癌症风险的一个难得的机会，但有些女性却认为它们只是在用一个风险交换另一个风险。即便很多健康女性有着更高的患病风险，她们也拒绝服药。她们质疑为什么要通过服药来降低患上一种她们可能永远不会得的病的风险，尤其是这些药物还可能会产生危险或令人难受的副作用。
Besides increasing the risk of blood clots and strokes, the drugs can also cause hot flashes and vaginal problems like dryness and pain that can damage a woman’s sex life. In addition, tamoxifen can lead to cataracts and uterine cancer.
除了增加血栓和中风的危险，这些药物还可能会引起潮热以及阴道干燥和疼痛等问题，而这些问题可能会对女性的性生活造成破坏。此外，他莫昔芬还可能会引发白内障和子宫癌等疾病。
In the United States, 232,000 new cases of breast cancer are expected this year, and about 40,000 women will die from the disease.
在美国，今年预计会出现23.2万个新增乳腺癌病例，而且约有4万名女性将会死于乳腺癌。
The group estimated that among 1,000 women with an increased risk of breast cancer, there would be 23.5 cases of invasive breast cancer over five years. If the women took one of the drugs, 7 to 9 cases would be prevented over five years.
该组织估算，五年内，在1000名乳腺癌风险较高的女性中，患浸润性乳腺癌的病例将会有23.5个。如果她们都服用了其中一种药物，这期间就能避免七个至九个病例的产生。
But an extra 4 to 7 women per 1,000 taking the drugs would develop blood clots during that time, and there would be 4 extra cases of uterine cancer per 1,000 women taking tamoxifen — an approximate doubling of both of those risks. Women who had surgery to remove the uterus would not have to worry about that type of cancer.
但是，每1000人中另外有4至7名服用药物的女性将在这段时间内患上血栓病，而且在每1000名服用他莫昔芬的女性中还会有4例子宫癌——这两种疾病的患病风险都增加了将近一倍。曾动手术摘除了子宫的女性则不用担心会得子宫癌。
The task force considered a woman likely to benefit from the drugs if her odds of developing breast cancer during the next five years were 3 percent or higher. One common method of estimating the risk uses an online tool that asks a series of questions about the patient’s health and family history. It calculates her risk, and compares it to the average for women of that age.
工作组认为，如果某女性在未来五年内患乳腺癌的概率在3%及以上，那么服药就对她有好处。一种估算风险的常用方法会使用网络工具，来询问关于患者健康状况和家庭病史的一系列问题。它会据此测算一个人得病的风险，并把测算结果与相同年龄的女性的平均值进行比较。
At age 40 the average woman has a 0.6 percent risk of developing breast cancer over the next five years; at age 50, 1.3 percent; at age 60, 1.8 percent; at age 70, 2.2 percent. Plugging risk factors into the calculator, like mothers or sisters with breast cancer, or a personal history of breast biopsies, makes the risk go up.
一般情况下，40岁的女性在未来五年内患乳腺癌的概率为0.6%，50岁的为1.3%，60岁的为1.8%，70岁的为2.2%。如果将各种风险因素加进去，比如有母亲或姐妹曾经得过乳腺癌，或者本人曾接受过乳房活组织检查，风险就会相应增加。
But experts warn that although these estimates can be useful in predicting the risk for large populations, they do not work very well for individuals.
但是，专家警告，虽然这些估算方法在预测大规模人群的得病风险时可能有用，但是对个人并不是非常有意义。
The report from the task force states: “Most women identified as ‘high risk’ will not develop breast cancer, and the majority of breast cancer cases will arise in women who are not identified as having increased risk.” The group also noted that the type of risk calculator generally used is not recommended for women with mutations in BRCA genes, which greatly increase the risk of breast cancer.
工作组的报告宣称：“大多数被确定为‘高风险’的女性都不会得乳腺癌，而且绝大多数的乳腺癌病例都将在那些没有被确定为患病风险较高的女性中产生。”工作组还指出，不推荐有乳腺癌易感基因(BRCA)突变的女性采纳这种广泛使用的风险测算方式，尽管这种基因突变会极大地增加患上乳腺癌的风险。