Coming soon to a neighborhood near you: an empathic multimillion-dollar home that passively treats the occupant’s body like a temple. The second coming of sustainable real estate, it will fuse green technology with nourishing all-about-me amenities and direct them indoors. Homebodies, take note: the residence is designed to make the people it shelters healthier.
很快，在你家附近的居民区里就会出现这样的房子：对待居住者的身体有如照管一座圣殿般，与人心意相通、价值数百万美元的住宅。可持续性房产再度风靡，将绿色科技与全方位关注使用者身体的保健设施完美融合，引导其登堂入室，成为室内应用技术。宅男、宅女们注意了：这种住宅的设计，旨在使居住其中的人活得更健康。
“The simplest way to understand what this home is capable of doing is to think of it like a 24-hour carwash that works on the human body,” said Paul D. Scialla, a co-founder and the managing partner of Delos, the Manhattan real estate firm. After conducting years’ worth of medical studies on the soundness of the science behind its product, Delos is about to make its debut in the city’s luxury marketplace with a WELL-certified condominium (the Delos name and the concept are trademarked).
“要明白这种住宅所能发挥的作用，最简单的方法就是把它想象成一个针对人体的、24小时运转的洗车场。”保罗·D·夏拉(Paul D. Scialla)说。他是曼哈顿房地产公司Delos的联合创始人兼分管管理的合伙人。Delos公司在对产品所涉科学的可靠性进行了数年医学研究之后，将携一栋WELL认证的公寓楼（Delos这个名字及WELL这个概念皆已注册了商标）在纽约奢侈品市场首度亮相。
The five health-centric residences are at 66 East 11th Street, an address where living well is, to recycle a throwaway line attributed to the 17th-century poet George Herbert, about to become the best revenge. Construction is under way; the first loft is scheduled to be habitable in September.
这五套以健康为核心诉求的住宅位于东11街的66号。在这里，借用17世纪诗人乔治·赫伯特(George Herbert)的一句即兴名言来说，活得好就是对敌人最佳的报复。此地尚在施工当中，第一套复式公寓(loft)预计可在9月入住。
The purest air and water and the most intense soundproofing are promised: there is a buildingwide water purification system; filters will screen out air pollutants, allergens and toxins; and a circadian lighting system will stream energizing light in the morning and melatonin-enhancing light in the evening. Then there’s the posture-supportive flooring system and the WELL Shield coating, which destroys bacteria in the kitchen and bathrooms.
Delos承诺，为住户提供最纯净的空气和水，以及最强的隔音效果：整栋楼配备了中央净水系统；过滤器可以屏蔽空气中的污染物、过敏原和有毒物质；一套昼夜生理节律照明系统发出的光芒，在早晨可以激发活力，在晚间则可以提高褪黑激素的水平。此外，它的地板系统有助于人体保持良好的站姿，而WELL Shield涂层还能杀灭厨房和浴室中的细菌。
Mr. Scialla believes in his invention so sincerely that he retired this spring, at 39, as a Goldman Sachs partner to devote himself to Delos. The guinea pig for the project was the West 13th Street loft where he and his twin brother, Peter, live.
夏拉对自己的发明深信不疑，所以今年春天，39岁的他从高盛(Goldman Sachs)合伙人的位置上退休，把全副精力放在了Delos上。这个项目的实验品是西13街的一套复式公寓，夏拉和他的孪生兄弟彼得(Peter)就住在那里。
Renovated in 2012, the loft is stocked (subtly and in some cases invisibly) with 50 wellness amenities that deliver, he says, 23 therapies: exponentially improved air, water, light, sleep, energy and nutrition are all part of the package. The grand piano in the living room is an extra that belongs to Peter — music being the rare form of therapy, Mr. Scialla said, that Delos doesn’t cover.
这套复式公寓在2012年进行了翻修，现在拥有50处（微妙的，有些还是用肉眼看不见的）保健设施。夏拉说，这些设施可以提供23种疗法：大幅改善的空气、水、光线、睡眠、能量和营养供给都囊括其中。客厅里那架属于彼得的三角钢琴则不计在内——夏拉说，Delos并没有涉足音乐这种少见的疗法。
The interior lighting in the West 13th Street prototype where the twins live with their golden retriever, Jake, nourishes delicate circadian rhythms with constantly changing types of illumination and blackout shading. The air is not just continually cleansed, but subtly infused by aromatherapy appropriate to the time of day — or the owner’s whims.
在夏拉兄弟同他们的金毛猎犬杰克(Jake)居住的这套西13街的样本公寓里，室内照明系统通过不断变化照明设备和遮光物的类型，来滋养人体敏感的昼夜生理节律。空气不仅被持续净化，还被巧妙地注入了适合一天中不同时刻的香薰——或者说，是适合主人奇思妙想的香薰。
The rift-cut Siberian oak floors are set upon a layer of cork and rubber that reduces stress, muffles sound and nudges a body toward perfect posture. The juice bar in the kitchen enables healthy beverage selections. The blue-light panel surrounding Mr. Scialla’s bathroom mirror is a silent wake-up call even on the darkest mornings. The heated stone path to the shower provides instant foot reflexology, and inside the shower, the cascade is supplemented by a spritz of vitamin C and aloe that neutralizes chlorine and soothes the skin.
以剖料切(Rift-Cut)工艺制成的西伯利亚橡木地板，表面覆有一层软木和橡胶，可以缓冲压力，降低声音，并有助于人体保持完美的身姿。厨房里的果汁吧可以提供多种健康饮料。夏拉浴室镜周围的蓝光面板，即便在最阴暗的早晨，也可以无声地驱走你的睡意。加热的石板路通向淋浴室，可为使用者提供即时脚底按摩。而在淋浴室里，添加了维生素C和芦荟汁的水流可以中和氯气，舒缓肌肤。
Naturally oxygenating planters catch rays on the windowsills, and a handy herb garden grows in the kitchen. There is ample green technology going on here: even the insulation is soy-based.
天然造氧植物在窗台上捕捉着光线，厨房里有一个简易的小型香料植物园。公寓里采用了大量绿色科技：就连绝缘层都是用大豆为基础材料的。
The principals in addition to Mr. Scialla and his brother, both early Goldman retirees, are: the company’s co-founder, Morad Fareed, a former executive of the Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide and a member of the Clinton Global Initiative; and the chief operating officer, Renato Termale. Delos has already installed 16 WELLness features in several dozen hotel rooms at the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas. The rooms command a 40 percent premium and have, Mr. Fareed said, recovered the cost of installing the amenities.
夏拉和他兄弟都是高盛的退休人员。除他们之外，Delos公司的高层管理者还有联合创始人莫拉德·法里德(Morad Fareed)和首席运营官雷纳托·特尔梅(Renato Termale)。法里德是喜达屋酒店及度假酒店国际集团(Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide)的前主管，也是慈善项目“克林顿全球倡议”（Clinton Global Initiative，由美国前总统比尔·克林顿发起——译注）的成员之一。Delos公司已经在拉斯维加斯米高梅大酒店(MGM Grand Hotel)的数十间客房里，提供了16种WELL功能。法里德说，这种客房的价格比一般客房高出40％，目前已经收回了安装这些设施的成本。
The company is converting an estate in Montecito, Calif., into a Delos oasis, as well as retrofitting a CBRE office in Los Angeles, ostensibly to make for happier, healthier, more productive employees. And in a philanthropic collaboration with the musician Will.i.am, it plans to Delos-ize a public school in Boyle Heights in East Los Angeles.
该公司正在将加利福尼亚州蒙泰西多(Montecito)的一处房产改造成“Delos绿洲”，此外，他们还在为世邦魏理仕(CBRE)房地产公司在洛杉矶的一处办公室进行翻新。此次翻新表面上的初衷，是为了提升员工的幸福感、健康度和工作效率。该公司还跟音乐人Will.i.am合作开展慈善项目，计划为东洛杉矶博伊尔高地(Boyle Heights)的一所公立学校安装Delos设施。
The 13th Street loft has already attracted a stream of celebrities curious enough about Delos’s potential impact on public health to take a tour, including former President Bill Clinton; Eric Schmidt, Google’s chairman; Dr. Mehmet Oz, the TV personality; and Deepak Chopra, the self-improvement guru.
西13街的复式公寓已经吸引了一些名人前来参观，Delos对公众健康的潜在影响令他们感到好奇。这些名人中有美国前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)、谷歌公司(Google)董事长埃里克·施密特(Eric Schmidt)、电视名人穆罕默德·奥兹(Mehmet Oz)医生，以及自我提升大师迪帕克·乔普拉(Deepak Chopra)。
This type of “smart” home construction doesn’t come cheap. But Mr. Scialla foresees the amenities’ becoming as cost-effective and accepted as green technology and LEED certification. Delos is not, he emphasized, intended to enhance only the health of the 1 percent. But for now they are its main beneficiaries, because it is they who can best afford to indulge.
修建这种类型的“智能”住宅并不便宜。但夏拉预计，Delos设施终会变得同绿色科技和LEED认证一样，高性价比，并能获得大众的接纳。他强调，Delos的诉求并非仅仅为了增进那1％的富人的健康。但眼下，它的主要受益者仍是那些买得起这些设施的有钱人。
The five apartments on East 11th Street are in an 1897 Italianate building with a terra-cotta facade, auspicious acanthus carvings, and a history as a dress factory and most recently a parking garage. Prices range from $15.5 million, for each of the three floor-through lofts, to $50 million for the duplex penthouse, whose 22-by-8-foot picture window frames the historic Grace Church.
东11街的那五套公寓，位于一栋建于1897年的意大利式建筑里。这栋建筑有着赤褐色的外墙和寓意吉祥的叶形雕饰，曾被用作服装厂，而最近则被当成一处停车场。这五套公寓中，有三套是全层的复式公寓，每套的价格皆为1550万美元（约合人民币9489.1万元）；而那套顶层的豪华复式房价格则为5000万美元（约合人民币3.06亿元），屋内长22英尺、宽8英尺（约为长6.7米，宽2.4米）的观景窗外，就是历史悠久的恩典堂(Grace Church)。
The largest apartment, at 10,000 square feet, is the so-called mansion: it is listed at $45 million and, if the buyer is so inclined, can be accompanied by its own potentially two-space parking garage, with a separate price tag of $1 million. The buyer of the penthouse is also entitled to buy the garage: first come first served. (Drivers of Hummers or Escalades should count on just a single spot.)
而最大的一套公寓面积达1万平方英尺（约合929平方米），堪称“公馆”。其挂牌价是4500万美元（约合人民币2.75亿元），如果买主愿意的话，还可以一并买下此套公寓自带的、可停放两辆车的车库。此车库单卖的价格为100万美元（约合人民币612.2万元），顶层复式房的买家也有资格购买，先到先得（对于悍马[Hummers]或凯雷德[Escalades]而言，应该就只能算作一个车位了）。
In addition to Mr. Chopra, the Delos advisory board includes Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee and co-chairman of Mr. Clinton’s 1996 re-election campaign (the Delos agenda was formally introduced at the 2012 Clinton Global Initiative conference); Richard A. Gephardt, a former majority leader of the House of Representatives; Mel Martinez, a former HUD secretary; Dr. Nicholas F. LaRusso of the Mayo Clinic; and Dr. Michael Roizen of the Cleveland Clinic.
除了乔普拉，Delos公司的顾问委员会的成员还包括：民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)前主席、曾担任克林顿1996年竞选活动联席主席的特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)（Delos计划正是在2012年的“克林顿全球倡议”大会上正式出台的），前众议院多数党领袖理查德·A·格普哈特(Richard A. Gephardt)，美国住房与城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development，简称HUD)前部长梅尔·马丁内斯(Mel Martinez)，梅奥诊所(Mayo Clinic)的尼古拉斯·F·拉鲁索(Nicholas F. LaRusso)医生，以及克利夫兰诊所(Cleveland Clinic)的迈克尔·罗伊森(Michael Roizen)医生。
In a pay-it-forward gesture, a portion of Delos’s profits will go toward real estate rehab in Haiti, a project of the Global Initiative.
Delos本着“将爱传出去”(pay-it-forward)的精神，把公司的部分利润用于“全球倡议”的一个项目：帮助海地(Haiti)房地产业复苏。
Mr. Chopra, a founder of the Chopra Center for Wellbeing, confirms that he is thinking seriously of buying one of the three East 11th Street lofts — if he can get permission from his wife.
作为乔普拉福利中心(Chopra Center for Wellbeing)的创始人之一，乔普拉确认，自己正在认真考虑购买东11街那三套复式公寓当中的一套——只要能征得妻子的同意。
His most coveted amenity is the strip of blue light by the bathroom mirror: “It puts the on/off switch on your melatonin,” he said, “which is great for people like me who do a lot of traveling.”
他最眼馋的设施是浴室镜边的蓝色光带。“它给你的褪黑激素安装了开关，”他说，“对于我这种经常出行的人来说，这真的很棒。”
More seriously, Mr. Chopra, whose brand is synonymous with spiritual well-being, said he was on board (an unpaid position, he stressed) as a Delos adviser because “it is worth it just to promote the idea.” He added: “This is the next step in the real estate industry — understanding that sustainability should begin in the home. Our bodies are sustainable but exposed to pollution, no different than the environment.”
乔普拉的个人品牌就是精神福祉的代名词。他严肃地说，自己担任Delos的顾问（他特意强调这个职位并无薪酬）是因为，“仅仅推广这个想法，就已经很值得做了”。他还说:“一旦认识到‘可持续性’应该始于家庭，这就会成为房地产行业将要迈出的下一步。我们的身体是可持续的，却暴露在污染当中，就和周边的环境没什么两样了。”
Another advisory board member, Dolly Lenz, who recently left her position as the vice chairman of Douglas Elliman Real Estate, is exclusively marketing the five residences. Ms. Lenz says she has been inundated with inquiries about what’s next on the real estate horizon, and she is convinced it is Delos.
顾问委员会里的另一名成员多莉·伦兹(Dolly Lenz)最近也辞去了Douglas Elliman房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)副主席的职位，专门为这五套住宅做营销宣传工作。伦兹说，人们纷纷询问她，房地产行业的下一个趋势是什么，简直令她应接不暇。而她相信，这个趋势就是Delos。
“It’s going to start with wealthy people buying into the amenities,” she said. “But this type of technology can filter down to all levels. It’s going to be the Whole Foods story of real estate. These guys are six years ahead of everybody else with their product. They’re out in the uber-stratosphere of the healthy housing movement.”
“最开始相信和接受这些设施的是有钱人，”她说，“但这类技术是可以向下渗透到各个阶层的。它会是房地产行业中的全食超市（Whole Foods，创建于美国，全球最大的健康有机食品超市——译注）。这些人和他们的产品比其他人领先了六年，他们正立足于健康住宅运动的前沿。”
Mr. Gephardt, who runs the Gephardt Group, a consulting and lobbying firm with major clients in the health care industry, said he and several acquaintances at the Mayo Clinic were especially interested in the palliative effect that Delos technology could have on the elderly.
格普哈特集团(Gephardt Group)是一家咨询及游说公司，客户主要来自医疗保健行业。该公司的负责人格普哈特说，他和梅奥诊所的几个熟人格外感兴趣的是，Delos技术可能对老年人具有姑息治疗的效果(palliative effect)。
According to him, Delos “is really onto something that will ultimately be as universal and accepted as green construction.”
他认为，Delos“确实可以成就一番事业，最终变得像绿色建筑那样普及，并被广泛接受”。
“Yes,” he added, “these are high-end residences they’re marketing, but when you’re trying to introduce a new technology, the reality is that it’s easier to get it monetized at the high end, because those are the consumers who are probably more ready to invest.”
“诚然，”他补充道：“他们正在营销的都是高端住宅，但当你试图将一种新技术引入市场时，现实就是，它在高端市场更容易实现货币化，因为高端市场的消费者更愿为此投资。”
Mr. Scialla, relaxing on a leather sofa in his glossy window-lined loft, summed up his idea this way: “The largest asset class we have is the $150 trillion traded in real estate, and when I thought of infusing the $2 trillion a year spent on health and wellness into the $150 trillion spent on real estate, a light bulb went off. Why build homes and offices just so they’re good for the environment? Why not build them so they’re good for people, too? It’s all about preventive intentions, and it could be a game-changer.”
在拥有成排明亮窗户的复式公寓里，夏拉放松地坐在一张皮沙发上，这样总结自己的想法：“我们所拥有的规模最大的资产类别，就是高达150万亿美元（约合人民币918.3万亿元）的房地产交易额。而当我思考如何将人们每年为健康和保健花费的2万亿美元（约合人民币12.24万亿元），注入这150万亿美元的房产消费时，突然产生了一个点子。在修建住宅和办公楼时，为何只考虑对环境如何有利，而不想想如何对人体也有利呢？这就事关一种预防意识，它可能会改变房地产行业的游戏规则。”
Since moving into his Delos-renovated loft, Mr. Scialla says, he has rarely been sick; he traced a case of the sniffles to a recent coast-to-coast business flight. Which reminded him that the Delos air purification, surface decontamination and lighting systems would be a great fit for airplanes and airports. Nothing would make a weary traveler’s heart beat a little faster than the luxury of arriving at his healthy home already healthy, especially with that built-in juicing station, and a 78-bottle dual-zone wine cooler, on tap for ready rehydration in the germ-free kitchen.
夏拉说，自从搬进Delos装修的复式公寓，他就很少生病；他将自己有点流鼻涕的情况归因于，最近出差时坐飞机横跨了东西海岸。这倒提醒了他，Delos公司的空气净化、表面去污和照明系统也非常适用于飞机和机场。对于一位疲惫的旅客来说，没有什么比享受一段奢侈之旅，健健康康地抵达自己的健康住宅更能令他振奋的了。尤其，无菌厨房里的内置式榨汁站和一台可存放78瓶酒的双温区葡萄酒冷却机，让主人立刻就能补充水分。