Now that the gluttony season is upon is, you may be re-re-re-evaluating your diet; or perhaps you’ll be stewing on it four weeks from today, making commitments to do better before summer.
暴饮暴食的季节现在又快来了，你可能已经开始第三次重新制定自己的饮食计划了；亦或者从今天开始算的四个礼拜之后，你会为此感到焦躁，想要在夏天到来之前要做得更好一些。
We are confused. Many people have the gnawing feeling that “nothing” is fit, safe, wise or ethical to eat, and the $61 billion diet industry encourages us to dwell on this uncertainty. We buy too much of the wrong stuff because it is affordable, satisfying, plentiful and aggressively marketed. Then we seek the cure for what that toxic regimen causes. It’s a dizzying merry-go-round.
我们有些糊涂。很多人都感到痛苦，觉得“没什么”食物是健康安全的，是明智而道德的，同时，价值610亿美元的瘦身行业则鼓励你维持这种不确定的感觉。我们买了太多错误的东西，只是因为它们廉价、让人有满足感、无处不在，并且有着铺天盖地的营销活动。然后，等到遭受了这些东西的毒害，我们再想方设法寻求解药。这就像是让人眼花缭乱的旋转木马。
There’s no question that the safety thing is confounding, and it’s not something individuals can do much about: You can avoid some chemicals by eating organic food, but that’s not an option for everyone. Besides, even that doesn’t address issues involving heavy metals or salmonella or god knows what else in our food supply. These are environmental problems, and one governmental responsibility on which everyone ought to agree is that environmental problems should be regulated until they’re solved.
毫无疑问，安全问题让人非常沮丧，而且个人能做的事情非常有限：如果选用有机食品，就能够避免某些化学品，但是这也不是每个人都有得选的。此外，就算有机食品也没有解决重金属或者沙门氏菌的问题，或者食品供应中存在着什么上帝才知道的坏东西。这些是环境问题，每个人都应当同意，环境问题应该得到政府监管，直到解决它们为止，这是政府的责任。
But nutrition advice need not confound; in fact, it’s simple and has barely changed since you were a kid (it doesn’t even matter when you were a kid). “Eat a variety of foods” almost does the trick, if the foods you’re eating are real, which means food with one ingredient or maybe four or six. (Most real bread, for example, is water, flour, yeast and salt, with the possible addition of olive oil or a seasoning or two, and the possible subtraction of yeast. Yeast conditioners and ingredients with five syllables have no place in real bread.)
但是，营养方面的建议不应这样让人迷惑才对；事实上，建议简单的很，从你小时候到现在变化得不多（不管你的小时候是哪个年代）。“不挑食”基本上就足够了，如果你吃的食物是实实在在的，也就是说含有一种成分，或者四到六种。（比方说，多数真正的面包由水，面粉，酵母和盐组成，可能还会加上一点橄榄油，或者一两种调味品，也有可能不放多少酵母。酵母调节剂，以及名字超过五个音节的调味品是不应该出现在真正的面包里面的。）
I asked Marion Nestle, who is among the wisest and sanest people I know when it comes to nutrition, how she might sum up dietary advice, and after noting that not much has changed since the ‘50s, she said: “The basic principles — then and now — are variety (eat many different kinds of foods to get all needed nutrients), balance (don’t eat too much of any one food category, especially meat, dairy and junk foods) and moderation (balance calories). To these, we can add: Eat more fruits and vegetables.”
我咨询了马里昂·莱斯利(Marion Nestle)，看她对于饮食建议整体上作何评论。在我认识的人当中，她在营养学方面是最聪明最理智的人之一。她先是指出，从1950年代开始，饮食建议变化不大，之后又说：“最基本的原则——不管是当时还是现在——就是不挑食（吃各种不同种类的食物以获得各种所需的营养）”、平衡（不要过度摄取某一类的食物，特别是肉类，奶类和垃圾食品），以及适度（平衡卡路里的摄入）。对于这些问题，我们还可以加一条：多吃些水果和蔬菜。”
Some of this requires judgment, but it’s safe to say that the less junk food (especially sugar and the like) and the more fruits and veggies you eat, the better off you are. We needlessly complicate things when we think about “nutrients” rather than “foods,” and we often take rigid, extreme positions.
这些要求里面，有的内容需要自己判断，但是垃圾食品（特别是糖和代糖）吃得越少，蔬菜水果吃得越多，对身体越好，这样肯定不会错。我们总是不必要地将简单问题复杂化，总是考虑“营养物”而不是“食物”，我们还经常顽固地坚持那些偏激观点。
It was health warnings about cholesterol and fat that set off the low-fat, high-processed-carb craze, which led pretty much directly to the current obesity crisis. Indeed, if the nutrition advice of the ‘70s and ‘80s had been “eat most things in moderation, and don’t eat too much junk,” many pounds would have remained ungained. Instead we were told to eat low-fat foods, and we downed Snackwell’s as if they were health food. Voilà.
之前，正是因为对于胆固醇和脂肪的健康警告，引发了追捧低脂肪的精制碳水化合物的热潮，而这正直接导致了当下的肥胖危机。事实上，如果七八十年代的营养建议提出“吃什么东西都要适量，也不要吃太多垃圾食品”的话，很多人根本不会变得这样胖。相反，总有人在建议多吃些低脂食品，结果我们把卡夫的低脂饼干当成健康食品吃了下去。然后我们就成了现在这样。
When food is deconstructed into “nutrients” and we start worrying about how much oat bran or how little saturated fat we eat, we play a losing game, one that gives the marketers of processed foods — a very high percentage of which is not food at all — the opportunity to sell high-oat-bran or low-saturated-fat products as “healthy,” regardless of their other properties.
如果食物被分解成“营养物”，我们就会开始担心自己吃了多少燕麦麸，又摄入多少饱和脂肪，这类游戏消费者肯定赢不了，反而让加工食品——有很高比例的这类产品都算不上是食物——的市场营销人员有机可乘，将这些高燕麦麸和低保和脂肪的食品包装成“健康食品”，而不管里面还有什么别的成分。
Thus one purpose of “marketing” is “confusing,” trying to persuade us that we must know a lot to make intelligent food choices. But little research on individual nutrients is conclusive. All you need really worry about is whether what you’re eating is actually food, and if you’re eating too much of one type, or simply too much. Except, again, fruits, vegetables and other minimally processed plants, of which you’d have a hard time eating too much.
所以说，“市场营销”的一大目的就是“迷惑人”，试图说服我们，在了解很多知识之后，才能明智地选择食物。但是就单一的营养物而言，却并没有什么确凿的研究结果。你真正需要担心的，是你吃的是不是真的食物，以及是否某种食物摄取过量，或者是不是吃的总量过多了。当然，水果蔬菜和其他没怎么经过加工的农产品不包括在内，这类东西怎么吃都很难摄取过量。
Which brings us to the extremism thing. On one end of the spectrum is the typical American diet, which is extreme in its contribution to chronic disease, environmental degradation, animal cruelty and, we might add, setting a bad example. (I’m determinedly avoiding numbers in this column, but if you want a whole bunch of them at once, lookie here.)
接下来又是极端情况了。一个极端是典型的美国式饮食结构，这在很大程度上导致了慢性疾病、环境退化，以及动物虐待问题，我们还可以加上一条，就是给世界人民带了一个坏头。（我坚持不在这个专栏里面使用数字，不过如果你一下想要很多数据的话，不妨看一下这里。）
So we flee to the other end and deify veganism, now in the news every time someone famous announces they’ve “gone” vegan. The latest is that Al Gore has joined Bill Clinton in animal-free land, though there are the inevitable reports that maybe Clinton cheats. (Not that there’s anything wrong with that.) Gore, presumably, finally recognized that the typical American diet of something like 600 pounds of animal products a year is inconsistent with a progressive or even realistic view of slowing global warming. Or maybe he just wanted to lose some weight. Or both — he didn’t respond when I emailed him.
于是我们就逃到了另一个极端，就是把素食主义奉为圭臬。现在在新闻中，那些名人每每宣称他们已经“开始”食素了。最近阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)追随着比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)走进这个不吃动物的世界，随后不出意外地出现了报道，说克林顿可能做弊。（不是说这样有什么错。）我们不妨认为，戈尔终于认识到，一年消耗600磅动物制品的典型美国饮食方式，跟那种进步的，甚至是现实的减缓全球变暖的观点，是无法调和的。或者，他可能只是想要减肥而已。亦或两者兼有——反正他并没有回复我发给他的邮件。
There’s never any press when people simply decide to eat less junk food or more plants or less meat, yet both anecdotal and sales evidence show that meat consumption is down significantly in the United States. And yet it’s the simple advice — the eat less meat and junk, eat more plants — that’s going to make the biggest difference, because not only will more doctors and other advice-givers preach it but more people will also be able to heed it. Not likely true of veganism.
如果人们只是决定少吃一点垃圾食品，或者多吃蔬菜少吃肉，这根本算不上新闻，但是坊间传闻和销售数据显示，美国的肉类消费正在大幅减少。而这个简单的建议——即少吃肉和垃圾食品，多吃蔬菜——却能够带来很大的改变，因为不仅是更多的医生和给出健康建议的人会倡导这个观念，而且更多的人也能接受这个建议。素食主义则不然。
Besides, there’s no guarantee that eschewing animal products will give you a healthy diet; it’ll just give you a diet without animal products. (Jelly Bellys, Coke and fries are all vegan.) It’s true that veganism is an ethical response to the world’s food problems (feed less to animals, and more to people) and it’s obviously the only response if you don’t want to kill animals to eat them, ever.
此外，也没有人能担保说，不吃动物制品就能够带来一个健康的饮食结构；它只能给你一个没有动物制品的饮食结构。（吉力贝糖果[Jelly Bellys]、可乐和薯条都是素食产品。）的确，素食主义是对全球食品问题的道德回应（少准备一些动物饲料，多准备一些人类食物），而且很显然，如果你不想宰杀动物作为食物的话，素食主义也是唯一的选择。
But there is logic to integrating animals into the agricultural landscape (Simon Fairlie makes that argument very well), and there is nutritional logic to eating some animal products.
但是从逻辑上讲应该把动物放到农业的生态链中（西蒙·菲尔利[Simon Fairlie]的相关论点就很犀利），而且从营养学的角度上说，人们也是应该吃一些动物制品的。
Where there’s no logic is in maintaining the status quo. I have no beef (forgive me) with vegans; in fact anyone who argues for a greater proportion of real plants in the diet is arguing for part-time veganism. But you don’t need to go to the opposite end of the spectrum to avoid the standard American diet; you just need to follow the advice you already know.
但是要维持现状，逻辑上是说不通的。就素食主义而言，我不是想要鸡蛋里挑骨头（请原谅我）；事实上，如果一个人认为应该在饮食中提高真正蔬果的比例，也就算是说要时不时地进行素食主义。但是你不必为了回避标准的美国式饮食结构，一下子跳入另一个极端；你只需根据你已经了解的饮食建议行事就足够了。