The past year in fitness has been alternately inspiring, vexing and diverting, as my revisiting of all of the Phys Ed columns published in 2012 makes clear. Taken as a whole, the latest exercise-related science tells us that the right types and amounts of exercise will almost certainly lengthen your life, strengthen your brain, affect your waistline and even clear debris from inside your body's cells. But too much exercise, other 2012 science intimates, might have undesirable effects on your heart, while popping painkillers, donning stilettos and sitting and reading this column likewise have their costs.
在重温2012年“体育运动”(Phys Ed)专栏刊载的所有内容时，我清楚地感觉到，在过去的一年中，有关运动健康的报道时而振奋人心，时而令人苦恼，时而饶有趣味。总的来说，关于锻炼的最新科学研究告诉我们，恰当的锻炼项目和运动量几乎肯定会延长寿命、增强脑力、缩减腰围，甚至能清除体内细胞里的垃圾。同时，2012年的其他科学研究指出，过量的锻炼可能会对心脏造成不良影响，而且滥服止痛药、穿高跟鞋以及坐着阅读本专栏同样要付出健康的代价。
With New Year's exercise resolutions still fresh and hopefully unbroken on this, day two of 2013, it now seems like the perfect time to review these and other lessons of the past year in fitness science.
2013年新年伊始，趁着新年许下的锻炼决心还在，而且打退堂鼓的可能性不大， 此时回顾过去一年中运动科学里零零散散的教训似乎是再好不过的了。
First, since I am habitually both overscheduled and indolent, I was delighted to report, as I did in June, that the "sweet sport" for health benefits seems to come from jogging or moderately working out for only a brief period a few times a week.
首先，由于通常以来我都保持着生活忙忙叨叨、运动能懒则懒的习惯，我非常高兴地宣布，就像我在去年6月份所说的那样，每周低频率短时间的慢跑或适度的健身运动看来才是有益健康的“甜蜜运动”。
Specifically, an encouraging 2012 study of 52,656 American adults found that those who ran 1 to 20 miles per week at an average pace of about 10 or 11 minutes per mile - my leisurely jogging speed, in fact - lived longer, on average, than sedentary adults. They also lived longer than the group (admittedly small) who ran more than 20 miles per week.
具体来说，2012年一项涉及52656名美国成年人的研究显示，每周以10到11分钟/英里（1英里约合1.6公里）的平均速度跑1-20英里的人——实际上也就是我悠闲状态的慢跑速度——平均来说，比久坐的成年人拥有更长的寿命。同时，此类人群也比每周跑20英里以上的人群（这类人确实很少）更长寿。这是一项激动人心的发现。
"These data certainly support the idea that more running is not needed to produce extra health and mortality benefits," Dr. Carl J. Lavie, a cardiologist in New Orleans and co-author of the study told me. "If anything," he said, "it appears that less running is associated with the best protection from mortality risk."
研究联合作者、新奥尔良心脏病学家卡尔·拉维博士(Dr. Carl J. Lavie)对我说：“跑的越多并不意味着对健康和长寿就更有益，这些数据显然支持这种观点。”他进一步说：“说起来，似乎跑得较少与最大程度地降低死亡风险有关联。”
Similarly, in a study from Denmark that I wrote about in September, a group of pudgy young men lost more weight after 13 weeks of exercising moderately for about 30 minutes several times a week than a separate group who worked out twice as much.
同样，我在去年9月的文章中提到过的一项丹麦研究显示，每周分多次进行约30分钟适度锻炼的矮胖男性青年要比运动量加倍的对照组的减肥效果更明显。
The men who exercised the most, the study authors discovered, also subsequently ate more than the moderate exercisers.
该研究作者发现，运动量最大的人吃得往往要比适度运动量的人要多。
Even more striking, however, the vigorous exercisers subsequently sat around more each day than did the men who had exercised less, motion sensors worn by all of the volunteers showed.
然而更令人吃惊的是，参与试验者携带的运动传感器显示，进行高强度健身的人每天坐着的时间比锻炼强度较小的人更长。
"They were fatigued," said Mads Rosenkilde, a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Copenhagen and the study's co-author.
哥本哈根大学博士候选人、该研究联合作者马瑟·罗森吉尔德(Mads Rosenkilde)说，“他们是太累了。”
Meanwhile, the men who had worked out for only about 30 minutes seemed to be energized by their new routines. They stood up, walked, stretched and even bounced in place more than they once had. "It looks like they were taking the stairs now, not the elevators, and just moving around more," Mr. Rosenkilde said. "It was little things, but they add up."
与此同时，新的运动习惯似乎让那些只运动约30分钟的人精神倍增。他们会比平时更频繁地站起身来，四处走动，伸展筋骨，甚至在原地跳跳。罗森吉尔德说：“他们貌似都不坐电梯，改爬楼梯了。而且到处走动也更多了。虽说都是小事，但积少成多。”
And that idea was, in fact, perhaps the most dominant exercise-science theme of 2012: that little things add up, with both positive and pernicious effects. Another of my favorite studies of 2012 found that a mere 10 minutes of daily physical activity increased life spans in adults by almost two years, even if the adults remained significantly overweight.
事实上，积少成多的理念可能是2012年运动科学主题的最强音，可以是好的积累，也可以是不好的积累。2012年另一个我最感兴趣的研究发现，每天仅10分钟的体育运动能让成年人的寿命增加近两年，即便是那些患有严重超重的成年人也不例外。
But the inverse of that finding proved to be equally true: not fitting periods of activity into a person's daily life also affected life span. Perhaps the most chilling sentence that I wrote all year reported that, according to a large study of Western adults, "Every single hour of television watched after the age of 25 reduces the viewer's life expectancy by 21.8 minutes."
然而，这个结论的反面也得到了证实：一个人在日常生活中，如果没有专门匀出一点运动的时间，同样会影响寿命。可能去年一年我在报道中写过的最令人不寒而栗的一句话莫过于，一项对西方成年人进行的大规模研究显示，“25岁之后，人们每在电视机前消磨一小时，预期寿命便会减少21.8分钟。”
I am watching much less television these days.
这些天，我看电视的时间是大幅缩短了。
But not all of the new fitness science I covered this year was quite so sobering or, to be honest, consequential. Some of the more practical studies simply validated common sense, including reports that to succeed in ball sports, keep your eye on the ball; during hot-weather exercise, pour cold water over your head; and, finally, on the day before a marathon, eat a lot.
然而，并不是2012年我所报道的所有新健身科学都是这样令人深省——或者实话实说——如此重要。一些更偏重实用性的研究只是证实了一些常识，这些报道包括：为提高球类运动成绩，要将视线放在球上；在高温天气运动时，得在头上浇凉水；最后还有，在参加马拉松比赛的前一天，要多吃。
But when I think about the science that has most affected how I plan my life, I return again and again to those studies showing that physical activity alters how long and how well we live. My days of heedless youth are behind me. So I won't soon forget the study I wrote about in September detailing how moderate, frequent physical activity in midlife can delay the onset of illness and frailty in old age. Exercise won't prevent you from aging, of course. Only death does that. But this study and others from this year underscore that staying active, even in moderate doses, dramatically improves how your aging body feels and responds.
但是当我思考哪些科学报道会对我的人生规划造成最大的影响时，我总是会去反复翻看那些研究体育运动是如何影响我们寿命和生活质量的科学报道。鲁莽的青春岁月已经一去不复返。因此，我不会轻易忘记去年9月份我在文章中提到的研究，该研究详细说明了经常进行适量体育活动的中年人在步入老龄阶段后可以延缓疾病和衰弱的侵袭。当然，运动无法阻止人的老化，只有死亡有这个能力。但是，这项研究和2012年的其他研究强调，经常活动，即便强度不大，也会大幅改善日渐衰老的躯体的感受和反应。
Aging also inspired my favorite reader comment of 2012, which was posted in response to a research scientist's name. "'Dr. Head,'" the reader wrote. "That shall be the name of my all-senior-citizen metal band," which, if its members gyrate and vigorously bound about like Mick Jagger on his recent tour, should ensure themselves decades in which to robustly perform.
2012年我最喜欢的读者评论也是受到了衰老的感悟，这条评论针对的是一名研究人员的名字。读者写道：“赫德博士(Dr. Head)，我这个全部由老年人组成的金属乐队应该叫这个名字。”如果乐队成员都能像米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)在最近的巡演上那样又是转圈又是蹦蹦跳跳，那么他们应该还有体力再倾情演出几十年。