When George Shultz was secretary of state in the 1980s, he liked to carve out one hour each week for quiet reflection. He sat down in his office with a pad of paper and pen, closed the door and told his secretary to interrupt him only if one of two people called:
在1980年代担任国务卿期间，乔治·舒尔茨(George Shultz)会在每周里抽出一个小时的静思时间。他坐在自己的办公室里，拿着一个本子和一支笔，关上门，告诉秘书只有两个人的来电可以打断他：
“My wife or the president,” Shultz recalled.
“我妻子或者总统，”舒尔茨回忆道。
Shultz, who’s now 96, told me that his hour of solitude was the only way he could find time to think about the strategic aspects of his job. Otherwise, he would be constantly pulled into moment-to-moment tactical issues, never able to focus on larger questions of the national interest. And the only way to do great work, in any field, is to find time to consider the larger questions.
如今已经96岁的舒尔茨对我说，唯有通过这独处的一小时，他才能从战略层面去思考自己的工作。如若不然，他会不断被一个又一个即时发生的具体问题纠缠着，永远无法着眼于国家利益大局。而无论在什么领域，要出色完成工作，都必须有时间去思考大局。
The psychologist Amos Tversky had his own version of this point. “The secret to doing good research is always to be a little underemployed,” Tversky said (as Michael Lewis describes in his latest book). “You waste years by not being able to waste hours.”
心理学家阿摩司·特沃斯基(Amos Tversky)对此有自己的表述。“保持一定程度的无所事事，一向是做出好研究的秘诀，”特沃斯基说（迈克尔·刘易斯[Michael Lewis]在他的新书中做了引述）。“如果不能浪费个几小时，你就会浪费掉几年。”
Likewise, Richard Thaler, the great behavioral economist and a Tversky protégé, self-deprecatingly describes himself as lazy. But Thaler is not lazy, no matter how much he may insist otherwise. He is instead wise enough to know that constant activity isn’t an enjoyable or productive way to live.
同样，特沃斯基的门徒、杰出的行为经济学家理查德·塞勒(Richard Thaler)自嘲地表示他很懒。但不论塞勒对这种说法有多坚持，他都不是一个懒人。相反，他足够明智，知道时刻忙个不停并不是一种令人愉悦或卓有成效的生活方式。
These days, however, it is a very tempting way to live. It can be hard to live any other way, in fact. We carry supercomputers in our pockets and place them next to us as we sleep. They’re always there, with a new status update to be read, a new photograph to be taken, a new sports score or Trump outrage to be checked.
但近来，它成了一种非常诱人的生活方式。事实上很难选择除此之外的方式生活。我们总是把超级计算机揣在兜里，就连睡觉时也不忘将其放在枕边。它们永远都在那里，等着我们去阅读新的状态更新信息，去拍新照片，去查看新出炉的体育赛事比分或者关于特朗普发脾气的最新消息。
Even before smartphones, this country’s professional culture had come to venerate freneticism. How often do you hear somebody humble-brag about how busy they are? The saddest version, and I’ve heard it more than once, is the story of people who send work emails on their wedding day or from the hospital room where their child is born — and are proud of it.
早在智能手机大行其道之前，这个国家的职场文化便对狂热状态颇为推崇。你是不是常常听到一些人假装谦虚地夸耀他们有多忙？我不止一次听到过的最可悲版本是，有人会在婚礼当天，或者在其子女诞生的医院产房里发工作邮件——并以此为荣。
Our society, or at least the white-collar portions of it, needs some more of Thaler’s laziness and Shultz’s reflection time. They are the route to meaningful ideas in any almost any realm: personal relationships, academic papers, policy solutions, diplomatic strategies, new businesses. I find it striking that new-business formation has declined over the last 15 years, despite (or perhaps partly because of) the digital revolution.
我们的社会，或者至少是社会中的白领阶层，需要多一点塞勒的那种懒惰，或者舒尔茨的那种反省时间。它们会把我们引向有意义的想法，对几乎所有领域来说都是如此：比如私人关系、学术论文、政策解决方案、外交战略和新企业。我觉得令人惊讶的是，尽管发生了数字革命（或许在某种程度上正是因为这一点），过去15年间，新企业的创办数量却在下降。
My goal with this column is to persuade you to add a Shultz Hour, or something like it, to your week.
我写这篇文章的目的，是说服你像舒尔茨一样，每周拿出一个小时来静思，或者做些类似的事情。
I’ve just begun to do so. I have committed to carving out an hour each week with no meetings, no phone calls, no email, no Twitter, no Facebook, no mobile alerts and no podcasts. Sometimes, I plan to spend the hour sitting down, as Shultz did, and other times taking a stroll. I keep a pen and paper with me and have set my phone to ring only if my wife calls. (My boss can’t start a war, so I’m willing to ignore him for an hour.)
我刚刚开始这样做。我决心每周都抽出一小时，没有会议、电话、邮件、Twitter、Facebook、手机提醒通知和播客的一小时。有时候，我打算用这一小时的时间像舒尔茨那样静坐，还有一些时候，我打算去散步。我随身带着纸和笔，并把电话设定为只在我妻子来电时响起铃声的状态。（我的老板没有发起战争的能力，所以我不介意忽略他一个小时。）
The fact it felt hard to commit to a full hour was a sign of my need to do so. Like many people, I’m overly connected. I have confused the availability of new information with the importance of it. If you spend all your time collecting new information, you won’t leave enough time to make sense of it.
我发现整整坚持一个小时是很难的，这一事实意味着我很有必要这样做。像很多人一样，我和外界的关联太过紧密。我混淆了新信息的可获得性和重要性。如果把所有时间都用于搜集新信息，那你就不会有足够的时间来理解它们。
The science of the mind is clear about this point. Our brains can be in either “task-positive” or “task-negative” mode, but not both at once. Our brain benefits from spending time in each state.
思维科学对这一点有清楚的说明。我们的大脑既可以处于“任务态正激活”或“任务态负激活”模式之中，但不能同时开启两种模式。不论处于哪一种状态，对我们的大脑都有好处。
Task-positive mode allows us to accomplish something in the moment. Task-negative mode is more colloquially known as daydreaming, and, as Daniel J. Levitin of McGill University has written, it “is responsible for our moments of greatest creativity and insight, when we’re able to solve problems that previously seemed unsolvable.”
任务态正激活模式让我们得以在当下取得某些成果。任务态负激活模式更通俗的名字是白日梦，就如蒙特利尔麦吉尔大学(McGill University)的丹尼尔·J·列维京(Daniel J. Levitin)所写，它“关乎那些催生最伟大的创造性和洞察力的时刻，以前看似无法解决的问题此时会迎刃而解。”
Whether you decide a Shultz Hour makes sense for you, I’d encourage you not to fool yourself into thinking that you can easily change your habits in little ways here and there. The ubiquity of smartphones, together with our culture of celebrating busyness, makes ad hoc approaches difficult. You are much more likely to carve out time for strategic thinking by making concrete changes to your habits.
不论你认为“舒尔茨时间”对你来说有没有意义，我都要提醒你，别自欺欺人地以为你可以轻而易举地在这方面或那方面小小改变一下自己的习惯。无所不在的智能手机，再加上我们置身其中的称颂忙碌的文化，让即兴发挥的方式变得很困难。你只有切实改变自己的习惯，才有可能为战略性思考抽出时间。
Wake up to an alarm clock rather than a phone, to collect your thoughts at the start of each day. While you’re driving, put your phone out of reach, mostly for safety, but also to let your mind wander at red lights.
每天早上，让闹钟而非手机把自己唤醒，整理一下思绪。开车时，别把手机放在触手可及的地方，这主要是出于安全方面的考虑，但也让你在等红灯的时候有机会神游一番。
Around the house, hide your phone — in a backpack, a drawer or another room — for set periods of time, as Sherry Turkle of M.I.T. recommends. Or carve out a few hours each week when no one in your house can check a phone. The filmmaker Tiffany Shlain and her family do so for an entire day — a “technology shabbat.”
待在家里时，像麻省理工学院的雪莉·特克(Sherry Turkle)建议的那样，把手机藏起来——放进背包、抽屉或另一个房间——以便抽出成段的时间。或者规定，每周的某几个小时，你家屋子里的人都不许查看手机。电影制片人蒂法尼·斯莱恩(Tiffany Shlain)及其家人会这样坚持一整天——是为“科技安息日”。
If you remember my recent column on sugar, this advice may sound familiar. Like sugar, technology makes life more enjoyable. But it’s better in moderation, and modern life pushes us toward excess.
如果你还记得我最近的一篇关于糖的专栏，这个建议听上去会有些耳熟。像糖一样，科技让我们的生活变得更有乐趣。但最好适可而止，而现代生活总是把我们推向极端。