PARIS — As a candidate for the French presidency in 2012, François Hollande promised to be more boring spouse than flamboyant seducer.
巴黎——作为2012年法国总统候选人，弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)承诺自己会做一个无聊的好伴侣，而不是招摇的万人迷。
Determined to set himself apart from the man he was seeking to unseat — Nicolas Sarkozy, whose marriage to the former supermodel Carla Bruni had helped make him tabloid fodder — Mr. Hollande proclaimed, “I, president of the republic, will make sure that my behavior is exemplary at every moment.”
奥朗德决意将自己和他努力从总统位子上赶下去的尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)区分开来，毕竟萨科齐和前超级名模卡拉·布吕尼(Carla Bruni)的婚姻让他成为了小报的花边素材。奥朗德宣称，“我，法兰西共和国的总统，将确保自己每时每刻都以身示范。”
Twenty months into his presidency, Mr. Hollande’s campaign pledge is faring even less well than the unemployment-cursed French economy.
就职20个月之后，奥朗德的竞选承诺的履行情况甚至还不如深受失业问题困扰的法国经济。
Caught in a clandestine affair that is more bedroom farce than Shakespearean drama — a beautiful actress, a scorned woman at home, surreptitious comings and goings on a most unpresidential scooter — Mr. Hollande is testing the limits of France’s famous tolerance for private indiscretion and leaving himself vulnerable to ridicule.
深陷偷情丑闻的奥朗德向法国人对个人不检点行为有名的包容态度发起了挑战，并可能让自己成为嘲讽对象。不过这次偷情更像是卧室闹剧，而不是莎士比亚戏剧：一个美丽的女演员，一个在家受到鄙视的女人，骑着颇无总统风范的小摩托车，偷偷摸摸地来来去去。
The episode has revealed a colder, more politically calculating side to Mr. Hollande, familiar to those around him but largely hidden from public view. His judgment, not least about his personal security, has been called into question.
这起丑闻让人们看到了奥朗德更冷漠的一面，让他的政治心机展露无遗，这些东西对他身边的人来说很熟悉，但很大程度上隐藏于公众视野。他的判断力，尤其是他的个人安全，受到了质疑。
Already weighed down by historically low support in the polls, he also faces the challenge of keeping the affair from undercutting his ability to push through an ambitious new agenda aimed at restoring France’s fading global competitiveness and moving his Socialist Party to the center.
创下历史性新低的民意调查支持率已经给奥朗德造成极大负担，他还面临着挑战，不让丑闻影响他去推进一项雄心勃勃的新计划。该计划旨在重新恢复法国不断降低的全球竞争力，并将他所在的社会党(Socialist Party)推向政治中心。
One big test could come next month, when he will travel to Washington for a state visit with President Obama. Mr. Hollande’s official partner, Valérie Trierweiler, was scheduled to accompany him in her role as de facto first lady, but now the visit seems likely to attract considerable attention for his eventual choice of, or lack of, a traveling companion.
下个月，奥朗德还将面临一个巨大考验，届时他将出访华盛顿，同奥巴马总统会面。按计划，奥朗德的正式伴侣瓦莱丽·特里耶韦莱(Valérie Trierweiler)将以实际的第一夫人的身份陪同他出访。但现在看上去，此次出访可能会招来大量关注，看奥朗德最终会选谁做旅伴，抑或干脆没有旅伴。
“He’s always hated when politics turned into a spectacle, and now he finds himself right in the middle of one,” Julien Dray, a Socialist and former deputy in Parliament, said in an interview. “The question is how he will handle it over the long term. If this becomes vaudeville, it could damage his presidency.”
“他一直很讨厌把政治变成大戏，而现在他发现自己正处在一场闹剧中，”社会党党员、前国会议员朱利安·德拉伊(Julien Dray)在接受采访时表示。“问题在于从长期来看，他将如何处理这件事。如果这变成一场杂耍表演，可能就会损害他的总统威望。”
Mr. Hollande, 59, has had little respite since a magazine, Closer, caught him meeting at an apartment around the corner from the Élysée Palace with Julie Gayet, a 41-year-old film actress who has played roles as varied as a Foreign Ministry official, a hairdresser and an addict, with nude scenes. The magazine published pictures of him arriving for his trysts on a scooter, wearing a helmet with the visor down, but apparently recognizable by his sensible black lace-up shoes.
自从Closer杂志拍到他和41岁的电影女明星茱莉·嘉叶(Julie Gayet)在爱舍丽宫(Élysée Palace)不远处街角的一座公寓里幽会，59岁的奥朗德就几乎没有喘息的机会。茱莉·嘉叶曾经在戏中扮演过各种角色，从外交部官员、理发师，到瘾君子，也有过裸戏。该杂志刊登了奥朗德骑着摩托车去幽会的照片，照片中他带着一个头盔，拉下了面罩，但他低调的系带式黑色皮鞋还是暴露了他的身份。
The French public at first took the revelations in their usual sexually sophisticated stride, but not Ms. Trierweiler. People who know her well said she was so devastated by the news that she checked herself into a hospital.
起初，在性问题上一贯颇为老练的法国人对此次曝光应对从容，但特里耶韦莱却不是这样。熟识她的人说，她深受打击，以至于住进了医院。
Mr. Hollande visited only once during her eight-day stay. Since leaving the hospital over the weekend (and thanking supporters via Twitter for their good wishes), she has been resting at La Lanterne, the presidential getaway at Versailles. Paris Match, where Ms. Trierweiler has remained employed as a journalist even while serving as Mr. Hollande’s official consort, reported on its website that the president had asked her for more time.
在特里耶韦莱住院的八天里，奥朗德只去过一次。自从周末离开医院（以及通过Twitter感谢支持者给她的祝福），她就一直在凡尔赛附近的总统度假官邸拉朗特纳别墅(La Lanterne)休息。《巴黎竞赛画报》(Paris Watch)在其网站上报道称，总统让特里耶韦莱再给他一些时间。在拥有奥朗德正式配偶身份的同时，特里耶韦莱还是《巴黎竞赛画报》的一名记者。
Mr. Hollande said Monday in a news conference in the Netherlands that Ms. Trierweiler was “getting better,” but he did not respond to the question of whether she was France’s first lady, according to reports by news services.
根据新闻通讯社的报道，周一，在荷兰的一场新闻发布会上，奥朗德称特里耶韦莱的状况“正在好转”，但他没有回答关于特里耶韦莱是否是法国第一夫人的问题。
If he does leave her, it would be his second high-profile breakup in seven years, after the end of his 25-year relationship with Ségolène Royal, a Socialist Party presidential candidate in 2007 and the mother of their four children.
如果他真的离开特里耶韦莱，这将会是奥朗德七年内第二次高调的分手，之前，他结束了和2007年社会党总统候选人塞戈莱纳·罗亚尔(Ségolène Royal)长达25年的配偶关系，二人育有四个孩子。
To his supporters, this is the start of a new chapter for Mr. Hollande in which he is emerging as a more mature and pragmatic leader who may be freed from what had become a complicated relationship with Ms. Trierweiler.
对于支持者来说，奥朗德将开始一个新篇章，他将成为更成熟和务实的领袖，并且可能从与特里耶韦莱的复杂关系中解脱出来。
They are banking on the assumption that what would be a media circus to an American president will be treated as a sideshow by the French, and that the story will die down.
他们认为，如果同样的事情发生在一名美国总统身上，那将会成为“媒体马戏团”式的事件，但法国人不会把这当回事，因此这个新闻将会逐渐销声匿迹。
“There is a new Hollande, more in harmony with himself,” said one of his close friends.
他的一个密友说，“人们将看到一个新的奥朗德，一个更平和的人。”
Perhaps more worrisome for him is that potentially his support among women could erode.
也许对他来说，更令人担忧的是，他在女性中的支持率可能会受到影响。
“This makes the French look like idiots,” said Arlette da Rocha, who runs the restaurant Le Pressoir in Tulle, where Mr. Hollande started his political career. “He has to tell the truth. This unconventional behavior in his private life doesn’t give a clean image of the president.”
位于蒂勒的Le Pressoir 餐厅老板阿莱特·达罗沙(Arlette da Rocha)说，“这让法国人看起来就像白痴。他必须说出真相。他的私生活中的这种不符合传统的行为会为奥朗德的形象抹上污点。”奥朗德的政治生涯就是从蒂勒开始的。
Mr. Hollande long seems to have assumed that he could live by his own rules.
奥朗德长期以来似乎一直认为，他可以按照自己的原则生活。
As leader of the Socialist Party, he campaigned for Ms. Royal when she ran for president in 2007. Both of them hid the fact that he had already left her for Mr. Trierweiler. French journalists who knew about the breakup did not write about it until Ms. Royal announced it after the election.
作为社会党领袖，他曾在罗亚尔2007年竞选总统时，为她助选。两人当时都隐瞒了他因为特里耶韦莱而抛弃了她的事实。了解这一情况的法国记者也没有把这件事曝光。直到选举结束，罗亚尔才宣布了这个消息。
“He who has betrayed will betray” Ms. Royal said afterward.
罗亚尔后来说，“有过背叛行为的人，将来还会再次背叛。”
Mr. Hollande has never been the marrying kind — a rarity for high-ranking politicians, although not for many French couples. Not that Ms. Royal was unwilling to tie the knot. Asked about marriage in a joint television interview in 2006 during the prelude to her presidential campaign, she replied mischievously: “We love each other, so I’m expecting him to propose. François, do you want to marry me?”
与许多法国配偶一样，奥朗德从来不是渴望婚姻的人，但这在高级别政治人物中相当少见。并不是罗亚尔不愿意结婚。2006年，在她总统竞选初期的一次联合电视采访中，当被问到有关婚姻的问题时，她有些顽皮地回答：“我们彼此相爱，所以我在等待他求婚。弗朗索瓦，你愿意娶我么？”
Mr. Hollande chuckled, awkwardly, and said nothing.
奥朗德尴尬地笑起来，没说话。
“You see — he still hesitates!” Ms. Royale said.
罗亚尔说，“你们看——他还在犹豫！”
“No, this is not what I mean,” Mr. Hollande said. “I’ll answer you after the program.”
“不，我不是这个意思，”奥朗德说，“在节目之后，我会给你答案。”
Apparently his answer was no.
显然，他的答案是否定的。
Mr. Hollande never married Ms. Trierweiler, even though he described her in an interview with Gala magazine in October 2010 as “the woman of my life.” By the following February, he had curbed his enthusiasm. “The sentence was maladroit,” he said. “I should have said, ‘She is the woman of my life today.’ ”
奥朗德没有娶特里耶韦莱，虽然在2010年10月接受Gala杂志采访时，他称她为“陪伴我的生命的那个女人”。第二年2月，他遏制了自己的热情。他说，“这句话说得太不聪明了。我应该说，她是现在陪伴我的生命的女人。”
Not only did he not marry Ms. Trierweiler when he became president, he also agreed that she could keep working for Paris Match, although she stopped covering politics. Mr. Hollande and his aides depicted it as an example of a modern partnership rather than a conflict of interest. She was installed as the de facto first lady with offices in the east wing of the Élysée Palace, a staff of four and a monthly budget of about $27,000.
他当上总统之后不仅没有娶特里耶韦莱，他还同意她可以继续为《巴黎竞赛画报》工作，不过她将不再报道政治新闻。奥朗德和他的助手将这形容为一个现代伙伴关系，而不存在利益冲突。她得到了第一夫人的待遇，在爱丽舍宫东翼拥有几间办公室，有四个人为她工作，并且每月拥有约2.7万美元的预算。
Early in his presidency, he wanted the freedom to move in and out of the Élysée Palace as he pleased. In a new book on the Hollande presidency, the author, Cécile Amar, said that shortly after Mr. Hollande was elected, he asked members of the Élysée staff, “How do I get out without people seeing me?”
刚担任总统时，奥朗德想要自由地进出爱丽舍宫。塞西尔·阿马尔(Cécile Amar)在她撰写的关于奥朗德总统任期的一本新书中说，当选后不久，奥朗德问爱丽舍的工作人员，“我怎么出去才能不引人注意？”
He took the high-speed train to a European summit meeting in Brussels against the wishes of his security staff, and insisted on living mostly in the apartment he shares with Ms. Trierweiler — with large exposed bay windows — which had to be secured.
他不顾安全团队的劝说，乘坐高铁到布鲁塞尔参加一个欧洲峰会，并坚持住在他和特里耶韦莱同居的公寓里，尽管那里有着容易遭受攻击的大型凸窗。最后相关人员不得不做出针对性的安保安排。
“I go around when and where I want as I want,” he said at his news conference last week.
他上周在新闻发布会上说，“我会按照自己的意愿选择出行的时间和地点，随心所欲。”