ROME — Hundreds of people were feared dead Sunday after a ship overcrowded with migrants capsized in the Mediterranean, as the authorities described a grisly scene of bodies floating and sinking in the warm waters, with the majority of the dead apparently trapped in the ship at the bottom of the sea.
罗马——周日，一艘载满移民的船只在地中海倾覆，数百人或已遇难。当局描述了大量尸体漂浮在水面或沉入温暖海水的恐怖场景，多数遇难者似乎被困在了已在海底的船里。
The fatal shipwreck may prove to be the Mediterranean's deadliest disaster ever and is only the latest tragedy in Europe's migration crisis. Warmer spring weather has unleashed a torrent of smuggler boats, mostly from Libya, bearing migrants and refugees from the Middle East and Africa, often fleeing war and poverty for a foothold in Europe. 
这场沉船事故可能是地中海上有史以来死亡人数最多的海难，却只是欧洲移民危机中的又一场悲剧。春季天气转暖之后，海上涌现出大量偷渡船只，它们主要来自利比亚，搭载的是来自中东和非洲的移民和难民。移民者通常是为了躲避战争和贫困，想要在欧洲落脚。
Death at sea has become a grimly common occurrence: Even before this weekend's sinking, humanitarian groups estimated that 900 migrants had already died this year, compared with 90 during the same period a year ago. That figure could rise sharply, as officials estimate that 700 people might have drowned in the weekend disaster.
致人死亡的海难事件之频发，令人不寒而栗：据人道主义机构估计，即使在本周末的沉船事故之前，今年就已经有900名移民遇难，相比之下，去年同期为90人。今年的这个数字可能会急剧上升，因为官员们估计，在周末的这场事故中，可能有700人已经溺亡。
The rising death toll is renewing criticism of the European response, especially the Triton program, introduced last November to patrol the Mediterranean and rescue migrants. U.N. officials and humanitarian groups have argued that Triton is too limited in scope and resources and thus is placing migrants at grave risk.
遇难者的不断增多再次引发了对欧洲应对措施的质疑，尤其是去年11月推出的特赖登计划(Triton program)。该计划的目的是在地中海巡逻，挽救移民的生命。联合国官员和人道主义机构称，特赖登计划的范围和资源都太过有限，正在把移民置于严重的风险之中。
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, speaking Sunday, focused the blame on human traffickers who smuggle migrants on rickety ships, describing them as “the slave drivers of the 21st century.”
意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)周日发表讲话时，把主要责任归咎于用破旧的船只偷渡移民的人贩子，称他们是“21世纪的贩奴者”。
Renzi conferred with European leaders Sunday and has called for an emergency summit to discuss the migration crisis and how Europe can help bring political stability to Libya, where criminal smuggling gangs are operating freely.
伦齐周日与欧洲领导人进行了磋商，并召开了一次紧急峰会，讨论这场移民危机，以及欧洲如何才能帮助为利比亚带去政治稳定，那里的偷渡犯罪团伙完全得不到约束。
Joseph Muscat, the prime minister of Malta, the island nation not far from the African coastline, said 28 survivors had been rescued, and he also called for global action to stabilize Libya.
在距离非洲海岸线不远的岛国马耳他，总理约瑟夫·穆斯卡特(Joseph Muscat)说，已经有28名幸存者获救。他还呼吁为稳定利比亚采取全球行动。
In European capitals, leaders pledged to confront the crisis. President François Hollande of France told the French media that Europe needed “more boats, more aerial surveillance and a much tougher fight against traffickers.” In Spain, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy told supporters at a political rally that “words won't do anymore.”
在欧洲各国的首府，领导人们承诺要直面这场危机。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)对法国媒体说，欧洲需要“更多船只，更多空中侦查”，并且对偷渡者进行更为严厉的打击。在西班牙，首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)在一个政治集会上对支持者称，“只是嘴上说说是不够的。”
“As Europeans, we are gambling with our credibility if we aren't able to stop these dramatic situations that are now happening on a daily basis,” he said.
“作为欧洲人，如果我们不能阻止这些每天都在上演的可怕情形，我们就是在拿自己的信誉做赌注，”他说。
Even as European leaders debate how best to respond at sea, the weekend shipwreck does not appear to be a case of a slow response. Italian officials say they received an emergency call Saturday night that a large migrant boat had been spotted 70 miles off the Libyan coast, and about 130 miles from the Italian island of Lampedusa. As often happens, the Italian authorities ordered the commercial ship closest to the scene — in this case, the freighter King Jacob — to respond until rescue ships could arrive. But when the King Jacob came in view of the migrant boat early Sunday morning, those on board apparently rushed to one side, trying to attract attention, according to Italian and Maltese officials.
在欧洲领导人讨论如何在海上做出响应的同时，针对周末沉船事故的应急行动似乎并不存在迟缓的问题。意大利官员说，他们周六夜里接到了紧急呼叫，称在距利比亚海岸70英里、意大利兰佩杜萨岛130英里的地方发现了一艘大型移民船。像往常一样，意大利当局要求离现场最近的商业船只——货船雅各布国王号(King Jacob)——在救援船只抵达之前进行响应。意大利和马耳他的官员称，当雅各布国王号周日清早抵达移民船附近区域时，船上人员都冲到了船的一侧，试图引起雅各布国王号的注意。
“There was some commotion on board,” said Muscat, the Maltese prime minister. “They tried to make a signal to the ship, and the boat capsized.”
“船上出现了一阵混乱，”马耳他总理穆斯卡特说。“他们都试图向这艘船发出信号，然后船翻了。”
In many cases, smugglers' boats are old and relatively small and carry fewer than 200 people. But Muscat said this ship had multiple tiers and was teeming with people. Maltese rescuers reported seeing bodies floating and sinking in the water.
许多偷渡者的船只都很旧，而且较小，只能容纳不到200人。然而穆斯卡特说，这艘船有好几层，船上挤满了人。马耳他的一些救援者称，他们看到了漂浮在水面和沉入水中的尸体。