Long before “RuPaul’s Drag Race” made cross-dressing a televised form of mainstream entertainment, there was the drag boom of the 1980s and ’90s, when a burgeoning New York club scene was filled with drag performers who perfected the art form.
在《鲁保罗变装皇后秀》(RuPaul’s Drag Race)让变装成为一种主流电视娱乐形式之前，变装早已兴盛起来。那是在20世纪八九十年代，新兴的纽约俱乐部充满了变装表演者，他们完善了这种艺术形式。
Much of that scene would be forgotten were it not for the drag comic who goes by the stage name Linda Simpson, who captured it all with a point-and-shoot camera she kept in her purse, making her the Studs Terkel of the nip-and-tucking crowd.
如果没有艺名为琳达·辛普森(Linda Simpson)的变装喜剧演员，当时的大部分场景将被遗忘。她的手袋里总是放着一部傻瓜相机，她用它捕捉到了这一切，成为又一个记录自己所在群体的斯塔兹·特克尔（Studs Terkel，他以口述普通美国人的历史而闻名——译注）。
Between 1987 and 1996, Ms. Simpson (whose birth name is Leslie and who prefers female pronouns when referring to her drag persona) took some 5,000 photographs of drag performers posing in clubs, on the street and on gay-pride parade floats, unwittingly creating a time capsule of an era when drag queens were the de rigueur jesters and goddesses of the underground.
1987年至1996年，辛普森（原名莱斯利[Leslie]，当提到她的变装身份时，她更喜欢人们用女性代词称呼她）拍了大约5000张照片，包括变装表演者在俱乐部、街上和同性恋骄傲游行花车上的摆拍照片。她无意中创造了一个时间胶囊，记录了变装皇后身为时尚逗乐小丑和地铁女神的那个时代。
The photos are alternately carefree and glamorous, with rising stars like RuPaul, Lady Bunny and Sweetie looking sultry for the camera, and Page Potter Reynolds (the transgender subject of Ms. Simpson’s 2013 photo book, “Pages”) exuding subversive charm in a clown wig.
其中有些照片拍得漫不经心，有些拍得十分迷人：鲁保罗、邦尼女士(Lady Bunny)和甜心(Sweetie)等新星挑逗地看着镜头，佩奇·波特·雷诺兹（Page Potter Reynolds，辛普森2013年影集《佩奇》[Pages]的变性主人公）戴着小丑假发，散发出颠覆性的魅力。
Two years ago, she whittled down the photos and began hosting a funny and informative photo show called the Drag Explosion, held at artsy spots like Dixon Place and Wild Project. “New York was a magical queendom,” Ms. Simpson would say at the photo shows. “We were pop culture darlings, even though pop culture didn’t quite get us.”
两年前，她筛选照片，开始在狄克逊中心(Dixon Place)和Wild Project等艺术场馆举办名为变装爆炸(the Drag Explosion)的影展，内容丰富而有趣。“纽约是一个神奇的女王国度，”辛普森在影展上说，“我们很喜欢流行文化，尽管流行文化并不是很懂我们。”
Born in Gaylord, Minn., to a minister father and housewife mother, Ms. Simpson studied advertising and communications in New York, when she wasn’t partying at places like Danceteria, Area and other clubs of the moment.
辛普森出生在明尼苏达州盖洛德市，父亲是牧师，母亲是家庭主妇。她曾在纽约学习广告与通讯，其间经常参加Danceteria和Area等俱乐部的派对。
Inspired by the East Village scene, she started dolling up in 1987, aiming for a “flirty career girl” look, and soon became one of the scene’s reigning drag personalities.
1987年，受到东村的启发，她开始妆扮自己，塑造“轻佻的职业女孩”的造型，很快成为当时的重要变装人物之一。
She started a feisty drag zine called My Comrade, which covered go-go boys, celebs and queer politics, and hosted a weekly drag party called Channel 69 at the Pyramid Club on Avenue A.
她开创了一个活跃的变装杂志，名为《我的同志》(My Comrade)，报道跳歌歌舞(go-go)的男孩、名人和同性恋政治活动。她每周在A大道(Avenue A)的金字塔俱乐部(Pyramid Club)主持名为Channel 69的变装派对。
Her stature grew when she performed at the outdoor drag festival Wigstock. “I didn’t think of Linda as being a separate person from myself,” said Ms. Simpson, who makes a living from event hosting and performing.
在露天变装节Wigstock上表演之后，她的名气更大了。“我不认为琳达和我自己是两个不同的人，”辛普森说。她以主持和表演为生。
“I already had a love of sarcasm, so it was transferred to the stage,” she added. “After being shamed for being feminine most of my life, it was liberating to wear a dress and be applauded for that.”
“我本来就很喜欢讽刺，所以我把它搬到了舞台上，”她补充说，“在我之前人生的大部分时间里，我为自己的女性化感到羞耻，后来能穿上裙子并因此得到掌声对我来说真是一种释放。”
For a pop cultural moment in the mid-1990s, drag flourished. RuPaul had a hit record, and the drag road movie “The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert” was a box office hit.
20世纪90年代中期，变装蓬勃发展，成为一种流行文化。鲁保罗风靡一时，变装公路电影《沙漠妖姬》(The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert)票房大卖。
“I was at the right place at the right time,” said Ms. Simpson, who documented it all with her camera, eschewing candids in favor of celebratory group shots and glam portraits. “As I grew as a drag queen, drag went from an underground art form into a pop cultural phenomenon.”
“我在正确的时间出现在正确的地方，”辛普森说。她用自己的相机记录下了所有这一切，她不喜欢偷拍，更喜欢欢乐的集体合影和迷人的肖像照。“在我作为变装皇后的成长过程中，变装从一种地下艺术形式演变成一种流行文化现象。”
The drag fad ultimately petered out, but “Drag Race” has brought it back.
变装狂潮最终慢慢消失，但是“变装比赛”又让它回潮了。
Ms. Simpson is once again hosting parties, this time as the bingo host at the Bleecker Street nightclub Poisson Rouge on weekends.
辛普森重新开始主持派对，这一次是担任布利克街红鱼夜总会(Poisson Rouge)的周末宾戈游戏主持人。
“I was just photographing people for fun, not with a thought of being a historian,” she said. “But I’m glad I captured a group of people expressing so much personality.”
“我给人们拍照只是因为好玩，不是想成为史学家，”她说，“但是我很高兴自己捕捉到了这样一群个性丰富的人。”