SALINA, Kan. — I’VE spent the last few months filming a Showtime documentary about how climate and environmental stresses helped trigger the Arab awakening. It’s been a fascinating journey because it forced me to look at the Middle East through the lens of Arab environmentalists instead of politicians. When you do that, you see the problems and solutions very differently. Environmentalists always start by thinking about the health of the “commons” — the shared air, soil, forests and water — that are the basis of all life, which, if not preserved, will undermine the whole society. The notion that securing the interests of any single group — Shiite or Sunni, Christian or Muslim, secular or Islamist — over the health of the commons is nuts to them. It’s as laughable as pictures of gun-toting fighters strutting on the rubble of broken buildings in Aleppo or Benghazi, claiming “victory,” only to discover that they’ve “won” a country with eroding soil, degrading forests, scarce water, shrinking jobs — a deteriorating commons.
堪萨斯州萨利纳——过去几个月，我一直忙着为Showtime电视网拍摄一部纪录片，讲述气候和环境的压力在触发阿拉伯民众觉醒中起到的作用。这趟旅程无比迷人，因为它使我必须透过阿拉伯国家环保人士的眼光看待中东，从而摆脱了政客的视角。一旦做到了这点，你将能以别样的视角看到问题及其解决之道。环保人士思考问题的出发点总是“公共领域资源”的良性程度——人所共用的空气、土壤、森林和水——它们是一切生命存在之本；如果不加保护，势必动摇整个社会的根基。为某一特殊群体谋利——无论是什叶派还是逊尼派、基督教徒还是穆斯林、世俗派还是伊斯兰主义者——而牺牲公共资源健全性的举动，在他们看来都无比疯狂，其可笑程度堪比阿勒颇或班加西残破建筑的废墟上那些荷枪实弹、高视阔步的士兵。他们高呼着“胜利”的口号，结果却发现，打仗“赢”下来的国土上，土壤遭侵蚀、森林在凋零、水源紧缺、就业岗位缩减——公共资源持续恶化。
Our film crew came to look at the connection between the drought in Kansas and the rise in global food prices that helped to fuel the Arab uprisings. But I stumbled upon another powerful environmental insight here: the parallel between how fossil fuels are being used to power monoculture farms in the Middle West and how fossil fuels are being used to power wars to create monoculture societies in the Middle East. And why both are really unhealthy for their commons.
我们的摄制组抱着探寻堪萨斯州干旱和世界粮食价格上涨之间联系的目的而来，后者是阿拉伯国家起义的诱发因素之一。但我无意中收获的，却是对环境的另一番洞见：化石燃料为美国中西部地区单一作物(monoculture)的农场提供能源，而同样是化石燃料则在中东地区驱动战争，制造出一元文化(monoculture)的社会，这两者有着相似之处。我们的另一收获是，弄清楚了它们让各自的公共资源深受其害的原因是什么。
My teacher here was Wes Jackson, the MacArthur award winner, based in Salina, where he founded The Land Institute. Jackson’s philosophy is that the prairie was a diverse wilderness, with a complex ecosystem that supported all kinds of wildlife, not to mention American Indians — until the Europeans arrived, plowed it up and covered it with single-species crop farms, mostly wheat, corn, or soybeans. Jackson’s goal is to restore the function of the diverse polyculture prairie ecosystem and rescue it from the single-species, annual monoculture farming, which is exhausting the soil, the source of all prairie life. “We have to stop treating soil like dirt,” he says.
我在这里的导师是韦斯·杰克逊(Wes Jackson)。他是麦克阿瑟奖(MacArthur award)得主，现居萨莱纳市，并在此创办了“土地研究所”(The Land Institute)。在杰克逊的思想观念里，美国中西部的大草原曾是一片充满多样性的荒野，有着复杂的生态系统，养育了形形色色的野生动物，更不用说美洲印第安原住民——直到欧洲人来到这里，他们犁地，让种植小麦、玉米或大豆为主的单一作物农田布满这片土地。杰克逊的目标是恢复大草原多作物生态系统机能，将它从一年生、单一品种作物的种植中解救出来，因为这些农场正将草原万物赖以维生的土壤消耗殆尽。“我们万不能再待土地如粪土了，”他说道。
Jackson knows this has to be economically viable. That’s why his goal is to prove that species of wheat and other grains that scientists at The Land Institute are developing can be grown as perennials with deep roots — so you would not need to regularly till the soil or plant seeds. The way to do that, he believes, is by growing mixtures of those perennial grains, which will mimic the prairie and naturally provide the nutrients and pesticides. The need for fossil-fuel-powered tractors and fertilizers would be much reduced, with the sun’s energy making up the difference. That would be so much better for the soil and the climate, since most soil carbon would not be released.
杰克逊清楚，要做到这点，前提是经济上可行。这就是为什么他制定目标，要用事实证明，土地研究所的科学家培育的小麦和其它谷物品种能扎根到深层土地、可以作为多年生作物种植——这样就无须定期翻土或播种了。他相信，达成目标之路在于将这些多年生谷物混合种植，以模仿大草原的原貌，同时提供天然的养料与除虫手段。对燃烧化石燃料的拖拉机和肥料的需求将大幅减少，而由太阳能补上。这将对土壤和气候大有裨益，因为土壤中多数的碳元素不会释放到空气中。
Annual monocultures are much more susceptible to disease and require much more fossil fuel energy — plows, fertilizer, pesticides — to maintain. Perennial polycultures, by contrast, notes Jackson, provide species diversity, which provides chemical diversity, which provides much more natural resistance and “can substitute for the fossil fuels and chemicals that we’ve not evolved with.”
一年生、单一品种作物染上病害的几率奇高，也需要多得多的化石燃料来维护——耕种、施肥、喷洒农药等。杰克逊注意到，与之形成对比的多年生、多作物种植则能提供物种多样性，进而产生化学多样性，更进而造就倍加强壮的自然抵抗力，因此“可以取代化石燃料，还有我们生物进化过程中并未与之相伴的那些化学物质。”
Jackson maintains some original prairie vegetation. As we walk through it, he explains: This is nature’s own “tree of life.” This prairie, like a forest, “features material recycling, runs on sunlight, and does not have an epidemic that wipes it all out. You know during the Dust Bowl years of the ’30s, the crops died, but the prairie survived.” Then he points to his experimental perennial grain crops: “That’s the tree of knowledge.” Our challenge, and it will take years, he notes, is to find a way to blend the tree of life with the tree of knowledge to develop domestic prairies that could have high-yielding fields planted once every several years, whose crops would only need harvesting and species diversity could “take care of insects, pathogens and fertility.”
杰克逊还维护着一些原生态的草原植被。我们行走在其间的时候，他解说道：这就是大自然天生的“生命树”。这片大草原，就像森林一样，“上演着物质的循环，靠着阳光生长，没有哪种病害能完全毁灭它。我们知道，在20世纪30年代的‘黑色风暴’(Dust Bowl)时期，作物都死掉了，但草原活了下来。”然后，他手指着他的多年生谷物实验田：“那边是知识树。”他指出，我们接下来很多年的挑战，是如何将生命树融入知识树，培育出“人工驯化”的大草原。这种高产农田只需每隔数年种植一次，长出的作物只需要收割即可，物种多样性就能“解决虫害、病害和土壤肥力问题。”
And that brings us back to the Middle East. Al Qaeda often says that if the Muslim world wants to restore its strength, it needs to go back to the “pure” days of Islam, when it was a monoculture unsullied by foreign influences. In fact, the “Golden Age” of the Arab/Muslim world was when it became a polyculture between the 8th and 13th centuries. Of that era, Wikipedia says, “During this period the Arab world became an intellectual center for science, philosophy, medicine and education. ...” It was “a collection of cultures, which put together, synthesized and significantly advanced the knowledge gained from the ancient Roman, Chinese, Indian, Persian, Egyptian, Greek, Byzantine and Phoenician civilizations.”
而这将我们带回中东。基地组织(Al Qaeda)常常宣称，如果穆斯林世界想要重获力量，就必须回到伊斯兰教“纯净”的年代，那时它还是个一元文化的社会，尚未遭到外来影响的玷污。可历史事实是，阿拉伯/穆斯林世界的“黄金时代”是8到13世纪间，那正是它形成了多元文化社会的时代。关于那个年代，维基百科(Wikipedia)上写道：“这段时期，阿拉伯世界发展成了科学、哲学、医学和教育领域的一大智力中心。”它曾经是“各种文化的集合，汇集、融合并极大推进了来自古代罗马、中国、印度、波斯、埃及、希腊、拜占庭帝国和腓尼基等文明的知识。”
What is going on in the Arab world today is a relentless push, also funded by fossil fuels, for more monocultures. It’s Al Qaeda trying to “purify” the Arabian Peninsula. It’s Shiites and Sunnis, funded by oil money, trying to purge each other in Iraq and Syria. It’s Alexandria, Egypt, once a great melting pot of Greeks, Italians, Jews, Christians, Arabs and Muslims, now a city dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood, with most non-Muslims gone. It makes these societies much less able to spark new ideas and much more susceptible to diseased conspiracy theories and extreme ideologies. To be blunt, this evolution of Arab/Muslim polycultures into monocultures is a disaster.
今天的阿拉伯世界所上演的，正是同样由化石燃料驱使的残酷行动，目的是制造更多一元文化社会。基地组织试图“净化”阿拉伯半岛。什叶派和逊尼派倚靠着石油金元，在伊拉克和叙利亚试图将对方斩草除根。埃及的亚历山大曾经是希腊人、意大利人、犹太人、基督徒、阿拉伯人和穆斯林的大熔炉，现在成了穆斯林兄弟会控制的城市，而非穆斯林多已逃离。因此这些社会想要迸发出新思想的火花就困难得多，沾染上病态的阴谋论和极端思潮却无比容易。直白地说，阿拉伯/穆斯林多元文化社会向单一文化的演进就是一场灾难。
Pluralism, diversity and tolerance were once native plants in the Middle East — the way the polyculture prairie was in the Middle West. Neither ecosystem will be healthy without restoring its diversity.
多元、丰富和宽容，这曾经是生长在中东土地上的原生植被——正如物种丰富的大草原曾是美国中西部的本来面貌。这两个生态系统要想健康发展，都必须重建其原有的多样性。