Ian Schrager, the Bronx-born, Brooklyn-raised hotelier, will unveil his latest property, the New York Edition, in the landmark Metropolitan Life Tower on Madison Avenue on May 11.
5月11日，布朗克斯出生、布鲁克林长大的酒店经营人伊恩·施拉格(Ian Schrager)揭幕了自己的最新地产——纽约艾迪逊酒店(New York Edition)。它坐落在麦迪逊大道的地标建筑大都会人寿保险大楼(Metropolitan Life Tower)里。
Mr. Schrager, who first came to prominence with Studio 54 in the 1970s, is collaborating with Marriott International on Edition brand hotels. There are three — in London, Istanbul and Miami Beach — and soon there will be one in West Hollywood, Calif.
70年代，施拉格凭借Studio 54俱乐部声名鹊起。如今，他和万豪国际酒店集团(Marriott International)携手打造艾迪逊品牌酒店。目前的三家分店分别位于伦敦、伊斯坦布尔和迈阿密海滩，很快在加利福尼亚州的西好莱坞也会开一家。
“We have a bunch of Editions going all over the place, some in China and one in Reykjavik, Iceland,” said Mr. Schrager, the creative force behind some of the world’s most stylish hotels, including Morgans in New York, the Sanderson in London, the Delano in Miami Beach and the Mondrian in Los Angeles.
“我们正在世界各地修建一批艾迪逊酒店，在中国有几家，在冰岛的雷克雅未克也有一家，”施拉格说。他是世界上最时髦的一些酒店的幕后创意推手，包括纽约的摩根酒店(Morgans)、伦敦的桑德森酒店(Sanderson)、迈阿密海滩的德拉诺酒店(Delano)，以及洛杉矶的蒙德里安酒店(Mondrian)。
His book “Ian Schrager: Works” was released earlier this month. Following are edited excerpts from an interview with him at his new hotel.
5月初，他发布了新书《伊恩·施拉格：作品》(Ian Schrager: Works)。以下是在他的纽约新酒店进行的采访，经过了剪辑浓缩。
Q. What can you tell us about the new Edition?
问：关于这家新的艾迪逊酒店，你有什么要说的吗？
A. It’s inspired by New York City’s turn-of-the-20th-century private clubs, Fifth Avenue’s Gilded Age mansions and Stanford White’s architectural masterpieces. Guests come into a dark oak-paneled foyer, like an upscale New York apartment building in the 1920s. It’s a fusion of old and modern. We have this sculptural spiral staircase. We are still in this neutral palette of taupes, ivory and white. But this is probably the last time we’ll do a neutral palette.
答：它的灵感来自于19世纪与20世纪之交的纽约私人俱乐部、第五大道上的镀金时代大厦，以及斯坦福·怀特(Stanford White)的建筑杰作。宾客们来到镶着深色橡木板的门厅，就像走进20年代的纽约高档公寓大楼。它是经典与现代的结合。酒店内有一座雕塑般的旋转楼梯。我们仍然采用了灰褐色、象牙色和白色等中性色调。不过，这很可能是我们最后一次采用中性色调了。
Neutrals are one of your signatures. Why the change?
问：中性是你的标志之一。为什么要改变呢？
I think I’ve taken it as far as it can go. It will still be simple. A quiet luxury. A new luxury. The sensibility will not change. But the second New York Edition [in Times Square; scheduled to open in 2017] will be black and white. We don’t want to run the risk of repeating.
答：我觉得已经把它发挥到了极致。将来的酒店还会很简洁，仍是低调的奢华，新式的奢华。感觉不会变。不过，纽约的第二家艾迪逊酒店（位于时报广场，计划于2017年开业）将以黑白为基调。我们不想担上自我重复的包袱。
Why alter a successful formula?
问：换掉一种成功的配方原因何在呢？
I have to keep moving and reinventing myself. Because I am in the theater business, I have to keep pulling rabbits out of a hat. I don’t want to have a “look.” I’ve done three or four hotels with this kind of design vocabulary for different cities.
答：我必须不断前进，重塑自己。因为我处在一个戏剧化的行业，必须不断玩出新花样。我不想一成不变。我已经用这种设计概念在不同的城市推出了三四家此类酒店了。
How are you mixing old with new at the Madison Avenue hotel?
问：在麦迪逊大道的这家酒店，你是如何把经典和新颖结合起来的？
We will have pops of color on seat cushions, and maybe an ornate Baroque mirror. We want to take a little bit of the decorative ornateness we have on the second floor and bring it down to the lobby, but still be simple. When we did Gramercy Park Hotel we had Julian [Schnabel] do the lobby and he’s a maximalist, and we had John Pawson do the apartments and he is a minimalist, but to me they work together in spirit.
答：我们的座垫会迸发出鲜艳的色彩，也许会配上华丽的巴洛克镜子。我们想把二楼的华丽装饰用几分到大堂上，不过仍会显得很简洁。做格拉梅西公园酒店(Gramercy Park Hotel)时，我们聘请了朱利安（朱利安·施纳贝尔[Julian Schnabel]）来设计大堂，约翰·波森(John Pawson)来设计客房。前者是极多主义者，后者是极简主义者，但我觉得他们的精神本质是协调的。
The New York Edition seems to have a relaxed, laid-back vibe.
问：纽约艾迪逊酒店似乎有一种放松而慵懒的氛围。
The whole idea is to have it feel like you are staying in the guest room of a private home, rather than a hotel room. The [30-foot-long, hand-forged] steel fireplace in the lobby is very personal to me. The idea came right out of my apartment. In the rooms, you can see my bed, but it’s higher, and has a classic motif, English library. This [points to a lamp] comes out of my house in Southampton. I love the room. This is my aesthetic. This is my sensibility. You can’t really improve on this as far as I’m concerned.
答：整体概念是让来宾感觉自己待在一栋私人住宅的客房里，而不是酒店房间里。大堂里那座（30英尺长、手工锻造的）铁制壁炉是我的个人偏好，灵感来自我的公寓。在客房里，你能看见我的床，不过它更高，呈现了一个经典主题——英式图书馆。这（他指着一盏灯）来自我在南安普顿的家。我非常喜欢这个房间。它体现了我个人的审美，就是我的感觉。从我的角度看来，的确很难再提升了。
Will there be a night life and bar component?
问：酒店内设有夜生活的去处和酒吧吗？
Yes, there’ll be a restaurant on the second floor overlooking Madison Square Park, by London’s hottest young chef, Jason Atherton. We have three intimate dining rooms — each room only fits about 30 people — a parlor with a billiard table and a library serving cocktails. Each room has its own color and theme, with velvet chairs and banquettes in rose, green and blue, and modernist, large chandeliers.
答：是的，二层有家餐馆，可以俯瞰麦迪逊广场公园，由伦敦最热门的年轻大厨贾森·阿瑟顿(Jason Atherton)主持。我们有三间私密餐厅，每间只容纳30人左右。还有一个台球厅和一间供应鸡尾酒的图书馆。每间餐厅有自己的色彩和主题，里头安放了天鹅绒椅子，玫瑰色、绿色和蓝色的长条软座，以及具有现代感的枝形大吊灯。
What’s different with hotels from when you started?
问：它跟你最初推出的那些酒店有什么不同？
I think the distinction between personal life and business life is kind of blurry now. The new generation business hotel is where you network and do business, in the same way you went to play golf at a golf club in the country, but at a city business hotel.
答：我觉得，如今个人生活和商务生活之间的界线变得模糊了起来。新一代商务酒店是与人交际、做生意的地方，跟你在乡村高尔夫俱乐部打球是一样的，只不过你身处城市里的商务酒店中。
You had a very positive response to Miami Beach Edition. Is it a hard act to follow?
问：迈阿密海滩的艾迪逊酒店受到了热烈好评。要赶超它困难吗？
Miami was kind of a spectacle and had so much muscle behind it — an outdoor area, a skating rink, a nightclub — we don’t have that here. I was concerned about it. I didn’t want it to be a letdown. I wanted New York to be a jewel box. To be really sophisticated and it is. It has a modern sensibility even though some of the things here are more than 100 years old. It doesn’t have a look, it has a sensibility. It’s a cool place, playful with young energy.
答：迈阿密海滩的艾迪逊酒店很是壮观，拥有繁多的辅助项目——户外活动场地、滑冰场和夜总会——纽约的艾迪逊酒店没有这些条件。我本来是有一点担心的，不想让它令人失望。我希望纽约的艾迪逊酒店像珠宝盒一样精彩，十分精致。它最后的确做到了。虽然这里有些物件有100多年的历史，但酒店本身带有一种现代感。不是表面上让人惊艳，而是很有感觉。它很酷，很有趣，充满年轻活力。
What is young now?
问：如今什么才是年轻？
Young at heart. I’m 68! If you are lucky you don’t lose that.
答：年轻在心里。我68岁了！如果够幸运，你不会失去年轻的感觉。