 “Come on, Abigail.”
“快点，阿比盖尔。”
“No, wait!” Abigail said. “I’m not finished!” She was bent low over her clipboard, a stubby pencil in her hand, slowly scratching out the letters in the book’s title, one by one: T H E. . . .
“不，等等！”阿比盖尔说。“我还没写完呢！”她拿着一支粗短的铅笔，凑近她的剪贴板，慢吞吞地勾写书名中的字母，一个接一个：T H E……
“Abigail, we’re waiting!” Jocelyn said, staring forcefully at her classmate. Henry, sitting next to her, sighed dramatically.
“阿比盖尔，我们等着呢！”乔斯林说，并且用眼睛使劲地盯着她的同学。坐在一旁的亨利非常夸张地叹了一口气。
“I’m going as fast as I can!” Abigail said, looking harried. She brushed a strand of hair out of her eyes and plowed ahead: V E R Y. . . .
“我会尽快的！”阿比盖尔不耐烦地说。她拨开眼前的一缕头发，继续写道：V E R Y……
The three children were seated at their classroom’s listening center, where their assignment was to leaf through a book together while listening on headphones to a CD with the voice of a teacher reading it aloud. The book in question was lying on the table in front of Jocelyn, and every few seconds, Abigail would jump up and lean over Jocelyn to peer at the cover, checking what came next in the title. Then she would dive back to the paper on her clipboard, and her pencil would carefully shape yet another letter: H U N. . . .
这三个孩子正坐在教室的听音中心。他们需要完成的任务是：一起翻阅一本书，同时戴上耳机聆听老师大声朗读。这本书就摆在乔斯林面前的桌子上，每隔几秒钟，阿比盖尔就会俯在乔斯林身上，瞅一眼封面，看看书名的下一个字母是什么，然后重新坐回她的剪贴板旁，在纸上认认真真地勾写另一个字母：H U N……
Henry fiddled with the CD player. Like Abigail and Jocelyn, he was a kindergarten student in Red Bank, a small town near the New Jersey shore. The students at the elementary school came mostly from working-class and low-income families, and, like the town itself, the student population was increasingly Hispanic. Jocelyn, with flowing dark hair, was the child of immigrants from Mexico; Henry was Hispanic with a spiky haircut; Abigail was white and blond.
亨利拨弄着CD播放器。他、阿比盖尔和乔斯林都是新泽西海岸小镇红岸(Red Bank)一所小学的幼儿园学生。这所小学的学生大多来自工薪阶层和低收入家庭。像这座小镇自身的人口构成一样，学校里的拉美裔孩子越来越多。长着一头飘逸黑发的乔斯林来自一个墨西哥移民家庭；留着硬直发型的亨利也是拉美裔；阿比盖尔则是一位金发碧眼的白人女孩。
“Abby!” Henry said. “Come on!” He and Jocelyn had long ago finished writing the title of the book on their lesson plans. They already had their headphones on. The only thing standing between them and the story was the pencil clutched in their classmate’s hand.
“艾比！”亨利说。“快点啊！”他和乔斯林早就按照课程要求写完了书名，并且已经戴上了耳机。横亘在他们和故事之间的唯一一样东西，就是攥在阿比盖尔手中的那只铅笔。
G R Y. . . .
G R Y……
“O.K., we’re starting,” Jocelyn announced. But they didn’t start. For all their impatience, they knew the rule of the listening center: You don’t start listening to the story until everyone is ready.
“好啦，我们要开始了，”乔斯林大声宣布。但他们并没有这样做。尽管早就失去了耐心，但他们知道听音中心的规则：在大家都准备好之前，不可以听故事。
“Oh, man,” Henry said. He grabbed his face and lowered his head to the desk with a clunk.
“哎呀，”亨利说。他捂着脸，垂下头在桌子上碰了一下，发出咚的一声。
C A T E R. . . .
C A T E R……
“Let’s begin!” Jocelyn said.
“我们开始吧！”乔斯林说。
“I’m almost done!” Abigail was hopping up and down now. “Don’t press it!” She bounced from foot to foot, still writing: P I L. . . .
“我马上就写完了！”阿比盖尔开始上下跳跃。“不要按！”她双脚换来换去地蹦跳着，依然在写：P I L……
“I’m pressing it!” Henry said. His finger hovered over the play button on the CD player . . . but it did not fall, not until Abigail etched out her last few letters and put on her headphones. Only then, finally, could the three of them turn the pages together and listen to “The Very Hungry Caterpillar.”
“我要按了！”亨利说。他的手指悬停在CD播放器的播放按钮上空，但并没有落下，直至阿比盖尔写完最后几个字母，并戴上她的耳机。只有到这时候，他们三人才终于可以一起翻阅书本，聆听《好饿好饿的毛毛虫》(The Very Hungry Caterpillar)这个故事。
When the CD finished, each child took a piece of paper and drew three pictures to illustrate what happened at the beginning, in the middle and at the end of the book. Then they captioned each one, first drawing a series of horizontal lines under the pictures, one for each word, and then writing out each word, or an approximation thereof: For “butterfly,” Abigail wrote “btrfli.” Their language skills were pretty impressive for kindergarten students. But for the teachers and child psychologists running the program in which they were enrolled, those skills were considered secondary — not irrelevant, but not as important as the skills the children displayed before the story started, when all three were wrestling with themselves, fighting to overcome their impulses — in Abby’s case, the temptation to give up on writing out the whole title and just submit to the pleas of her friends; for Jocelyn and Henry, the urge to rip the pencil out of Abby’s hand and start the CD already.
CD播完后，孩子们分别拿出一张纸，画上三幅图片来说明这本书开始、中间和结束部分的故事。然后，他们需要配上文字说明：首先在每张图片下划一些横线，随后在每条横线上写一个单词，或一个样子近似的单词。比如，阿比盖尔把“蝴蝶”(butterfly)写成了“btrfli”。对于幼儿园学生来说，这已是相当了不起的语言能力。但在运行该项目的教师和儿童心理学家看来，这些技能是次要的——不是无关紧要，但并没有这些孩子在听故事“之前”展示的技能那般重要。当时，三个孩子都在跟自己搏斗，都在努力克服自己的冲动：阿比盖尔需要克服放弃写完整个标题，顺从朋友们的恳求这一诱惑；乔斯林和亨利则需要压抑住从阿比盖尔手中夺下铅笔，启动CD播放器的冲动。
Over the last few years, a new buzz phrase has emerged among scholars and scientists who study early-childhood development, a phrase that sounds more as if it belongs in the boardroom than the classroom: executive function. Originally a neuroscience term, it refers to the ability to think straight: to order your thoughts, to process information in a coherent way, to hold relevant details in your short-term memory, to avoid distractions and mental traps and focus on the task in front of you. And recently, cognitive psychologists have come to believe that executive function, and specifically the skill of self-regulation, might hold the answers to some of the most vexing questions in education today.
过去几年来，研究儿童早期发展的学者和科学家群体中涌现出了一个新的流行语：执行功能(executive function)，这个词听起来似乎不属于课堂，更像是董事会用语。执行功能原本是一个神经科学术语，意指清晰思考的能力：理顺你的想法，以连贯的方式处理信息，通过短期记忆掌握相关细节，避免分心和心理陷阱，专心解决手头的任务。最近，认知心理学家开始相信，执行功能，特别是自我调节技能，或许蕴含着当今教育中一些老大难问题的解决之道。
The ability of young children to control their emotional and cognitive impulses, it turns out, is a remarkably strong indicator of both short-term and long-term success, academic and otherwise. In some studies, self-regulation skills have been shown to predict academic achievement more reliably than I.Q. tests. The problem is that just as we’re coming to understand the importance of self-regulation skills, those skills appear to be in short supply among young American children. In one recent national survey, 46 percent of kindergarten teachers said that at least half the kids in their classes had problems following directions. In another study, Head Start teachers reported that more than a quarter of their students exhibited serious self-control-related negative behaviors, like kicking or threatening other students, at least once a week. Walter Gilliam, a professor at Yale’s child-study center, estimates that each year, across the country, more than 5,000 children are expelled from pre-K programs because teachers feel unable to control them.
事实证明，儿童控制情绪和认知冲动的能力可以非常精确地预示他们能否在学业及其他方面获得短期和长期的成功。一些研究证明，就预测学业成绩的准确性而言，自我调节技能要比智商测试更加可靠。问题是，就在我们逐渐理解自我调节能力的重要性之际，我们却发现，美国的小孩子似乎非常欠缺这些技能。最近的一项全国性调查显示，46%的幼儿园老师说，他们班的孩子至少有一半不听从指令。在另一项研究中，启蒙老师报告称，超过四分之一的学生每周至少会出现一次与自我控制相关，极其严重的消极行为，比如踢打或威胁其他学生。耶鲁大学(Yale University)儿童研究中心教授沃尔特·吉列姆(Walter Gilliam)预测称，全美每年有超过5000名儿童被幼儿园学前班开除，个中原因是，老师觉得无法管得住他们。
There is a popular belief that executive-function skills are fixed early on, a function of genes and parenting, and that other than medication, there’s not much that teachers and professionals can do to affect children’s impulsive behavior. In fact, though, there is growing evidence that the opposite is true, that executive-function skills are relatively malleable — quite possibly more malleable than I.Q., which is notoriously hard to increase over a sustained period. In laboratory studies, research psychologists have found that with executive function, practice helps; when children or adults repeatedly perform basic exercises in cognitive self-regulation, they get better at it. But when researchers try to take those experiments out of the lab and into the classroom, their success rate is much lower. Angela Duckworth, a psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania, has spent the last seven years trying to find reliable, repeatable methods to improve self-control in children. When I spoke to her recently, she told me about a six-week-long experiment that she and some colleagues conducted in 2003 with 40 fifth-grade students at a school in Philadelphia.
一种非常流行的观点认为，与执行功能相关的技能在一个人成长的早期就固定了下来，这些技能主要取决于基因和父母对子女的教养；除了药物治疗外，教师和专业人士根本没有多少办法去影响儿童的冲动行为。但事实上，越来越多的证据表明，实际情况恰好相反。相对来说，与执行功能相关的技能具有一定的可塑性——或许比智商还容易改变，而推动智商持续提高是出了名的难。心理学家的实验室研究发现，勤加练习有助于改善执行功能；当孩童或成人反复从事基本的认知自我调节练习时，他们就会越来越擅长做这类事情。但当研究人员尝试着把这些实验带出实验室，应用到课堂的时候，他们的成功率要低得多。过去7年来，宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)心理学家安吉拉·达克沃斯(Angela Duckworth)一直致力于探寻可靠且可重复使用的方法来提高孩子的自我控制能力。最近接受我采访时，她谈到了她和几位同事2003年在费城一所学校40名五年级学生身上进行的一项为期6周的实验。
“We did everything right,” she told me: led the kids through self-control exercises, helped them reorganize their lockers, gave them rewards for completing their homework. And at the end of the experiment, the students dutifully reported that they now had more self-control than when they started the program. But in fact, they did not: the children who had been through the intervention did no better on a variety of measures than a control group at the same school. “We looked at teacher ratings of self-control, we looked at homework completion, we looked at standardized achievement tests, we looked at G.P.A., we looked at whether they were late to class more,” Duckworth explained. “We got zero effect on everything.” Despite that failure, Duckworth says she is convinced that it is possible to boost executive function among children — she just thinks it will require a more complex and thoroughgoing program than the one that she and her colleagues employed. “It’s not impossible,” she concludes, “but it’s damn hard.”
她告诉我，“该做的我们都做到位了。”比如，引导孩子参加自我控制练习，帮助他们整理储物柜，对完成作业的行为予以奖励。实验结束时，学生们尽职尽责地报告说，他们现在的自控力比参加实验之初强多了。但实际情况并非如此：参加完这项干预实验后，这些孩子的多项自我调节指标几乎跟被列入对照组的该校另一群孩子相差无几。“通过观察老师对他们自我控制能力的评价，其功课完成情况，标准化学业测验成绩，平均绩点(GPA)，以及上课是否依然迟到等方面，我们发现，这项实验没有对所有这些事情产生一丁点影响，”达克沃斯解释道。尽管遭遇失败，但她依然确信，促进儿童的执行功能是有可能实现的。她只是认为这将需要一项比她和同事们所采用的方式更为复杂，更加彻底的计划。“不是不可能，”她总结道，“但实在是太难了。”
Which is why Abigail, Henry and Jocelyn are potentially so important. They and their classmates are enrolled in Tools of the Mind, a relatively new program dedicated to improving the self-regulation abilities of young children, starting as early as age 3. Tools of the Mind is based on the teachings of Lev Vygotsky, a Russian psychologist who died of tuberculosis in 1934, at age 38, and whose educational theories and methods were, until recently, little known in the United States. Over the past 15 years, Deborah Leong and Elena Bodrova, scholars of child development based in Denver, have turned Vygotsky’s philosophy into a full-time curriculum for prekindergarten and kindergarten students, complete with training manuals and coaches and professional-development classes for teachers. Tools of the Mind has grown steadily — though its expansion has sped up in the past few years — and it now is being used to teach 18,000 prekindergarten and kindergarten students in 12 states around the country. Leong and Bodrova say they believe they have found the answer to the problem that has bedeviled Duckworth and other psychologists for so long. Their program, they say, can reliably teach self-regulation skills to pretty much any child — poor or rich; typical achievers as well as many of those who are considered to have special needs. (They make the claim that many kids given diagnoses of A.D.H.D. would not need Ritalin if they were enrolled in Tools of the Mind.) And if Leong and Bodrova are right, those improved self-regulation skills will lead not only to fewer classroom meltdowns and expulsions in prekindergarten and kindergarten; they will also lead to better reading and math scores later on.
这就是为什么阿比盖尔、亨利和乔斯林具有如此重大的潜在意义。这三个孩子和他们的同学正在接受“心智工具”(Tools of the Mind)培训，这一相对较新的研究项目旨在改善幼儿的自我调节能力，最早可从3岁的孩子开始。心智工具以俄罗斯心理学家利维·维果茨基（Lev Vygotsky，因患肺结核于1934年去世，时年38岁）的学说作为其理论基础。直到最近，美国学界还不太了解他的教育理论和方法。在过去的15年中，居住在丹佛的儿童发展学者黛博拉·梁(Deborah Leong)和埃琳娜·鲍德罗娃(Elena Bodrova)，已经把维果茨基的学说转化为一套面向学前班和幼儿园学生的全日制课程，其中包括专为教师开发的培训手册、教练和专业发展教程。心智工具课程的普及度一直在稳步增长，但在过去几年，这种扩张呈加速态势。现如今，全美12个州的1.8万名幼儿园学前班和幼儿园学生正在学习这套课程。梁和鲍德罗娃信心满满地表示，她们已经找到了这样一个长期困扰达克沃斯和其他心理学家的问题的解决办法。他们说，这套课程能够非常可靠地把自我调节技能传授给几乎任何孩子，无论是穷孩子，还是富孩子，无论是典型的成功者，还是许多被视为有特殊需要的孩童——她们声称，如果接受心智工具培训，许多患有多动症(A.D.H.D.)的孩子就不需要服用中枢兴奋药利他林(Ritalin)。如果梁和鲍德罗娃所言不虚，大幅提升的自我调节技能不仅有望减少课堂涣散，以及学前班和幼儿园孩童被开除等现象，还将大幅改善孩子们未来的阅读和数学成绩。
At the heart of the Tools of the Mind methodology is a simple but surprising idea: that the key to developing self-regulation is play, and lots of it. But not just any play. The necessary ingredient is what Leong and Bodrova call “mature dramatic play”: complex, extended make-believe scenarios, involving multiple children and lasting for hours, even days. If you want to succeed in school and in life, they say, you first need to do what Abigail and Jocelyn and Henry have done every school day for the past two years: spend hour after hour dressing up in firefighter hats and wedding gowns, cooking make-believe hamburgers and pouring nonexistent tea, doing the hard, serious work of playing pretend.
心智工具教学法的核心，是一个简单但令人吃惊的想法：发展自我调节技能的关键在于玩耍，做大量的游戏。但不是什么游戏都行。它必须具备梁和鲍德罗娃所称的“成熟的戏剧表演”这一元素：复杂且持续性的仿真场景，涉及多个孩子，往往持续数小时，甚至数天。她们说，如果你想在学业和生活上取得成功，你首先需要做阿比盖尔、乔斯林和亨利过去两年一直在学校做的事情：花费一小时又一小时地戴消防帽，穿婚纱，烹饪虚拟的汉堡包，倒不存在的茶，郑重其事地玩过家家游戏。
Over the last decade or so, the central debate in the field of early-childhood education has been between one group that favors what you might call a preacademic approach to prekindergarten and kindergarten and another group that contends that the point of school in those early years is not to prepare for academic study; it is to allow children to explore the world, learn social skills and have free, unconstrained fun. The preacademic camp began to dominate the debate in the late 1990s, drawing on some emerging research that showed that children’s abilities at the beginning of kindergarten were powerful predictors of later success. If a child reached his 5th birthday well behind his peers in measures of cognitive ability, this research showed, he would most likely never catch up. The good news in the research was that if you exposed struggling children to certain intensive reading and math interventions in prekindergarten and kindergarten, when their minds were still at their most pliable, you could significantly reduce or even eliminate that lag. And so the answer, to many scholars and policy makers, was clear: there was no time to waste in those early years on Play-Doh and fingerpainting, not when kids, and especially disadvantaged kids, could be making such rapid advances in the critical cognitive skills they needed.
在过去大约10年里，儿童早期教育领域的中心辩论一直在两组学者间展开。一组学者赞成对学龄前和幼儿园孩童采用一种可以称之为“学前预备”的教育方式，另一组学者则辩称，儿童早期教育的重点并不是为日后的学习生涯做准备，而是让学生探索世界，学习社交技巧，无拘无束地享受玩的乐趣。20世纪90年代末，学前预备阵营开始主宰这场辩论，一些新兴的研究成果成为这一阵营的杀手锏。这些研究表明，儿童在幼儿园早期阶段表现出来的能力，是预测其日后能否获得成功的有力指标。这项研究表明，如果一个孩子过5岁生日时，他的多项认知能力指标远远落后于其他小朋友，那么他就很可能永远也无法赶上。这项研究带来的好消息是，如果你让这些存在认知障碍的学生在学龄前和幼儿园，也就是当他们的心智仍处于最具可塑性阶段的时候，接受密集的阅读和数学干预训练，你就有可能显著降低甚至消除这种差距。因此，在许多学者和政策制定者看来，解决之道再明显不过：在非常重要的早期教育时期，孩子们，尤其是弱势儿童，有望迅速改善对他们极其关键的认知技能，再也不能让孩子们把如此宝贵的时间浪费在玩培乐多彩泥(Play-Doh)和手指画上面了。
More recently, though, a backlash has been growing against the preacademic approach among educators and child psychologists who argue that it misses the whole point of early-childhood education. “Kindergarten has ceased to be a garden of delight and has become a place of stress and distress,” warned a report released in March by a research group called the Alliance for Childhood, which is advised by some of the country’s most esteemed progressive-education scholars. There is now too much testing and too little free time, the report argues, and kids are being forced to try to read before they are ready. The solution, according to the report’s authors, is a return to ample doses of “unstructured play” in kindergarten. If kids are allowed to develop at their own paces, they will be happier and healthier and less stressed out. And there will still be plenty of time later on to learn how to read.
但最近这些时日，学前预备教育遭到教育工作者和儿童心理学家越来越强烈的反对。他们声称，这种方式忽略了儿童早期教育的主要目的。“幼儿园不再是一个乐园，它已经沦为一个充满压力和苦恼的所在，”一家名为童年联盟(Alliance for Childhood)，由美国几位最受尊敬的进步主义教育家担当顾问的研究机构于去年3月份发布的一份报告警告说。该报告认为，现如今，幼儿园的测试太多了，几乎没有空闲时间。孩子们没有做好准备就不得不硬着头皮开始阅读。这份报告的执笔者声称，我们应该重新给幼儿园生活注入足够多剂量“未正式组织的玩耍时间”，以解决这个问题。如果我们允许孩子们按照自己的步伐发展，他们就会更快乐，更健康，就会变得不那么焦虑不安了。他们日后依然有大把的时间可以用来学习如何阅读。
On the surface, Bodrova and Leong would seem to belong to the second camp. They say, after all, that play should have a central place in early-childhood classrooms. And they do find fault with the academic approach, arguing that in practice, many of the early-childhood academic initiatives that have been introduced in the No Child Left Behind era have failed to produce any significant improvement in academic skills. At the same time, they don’t agree that the solution is unstructured free play. The romantic idea that children are born with flowering imaginations and a natural instinct for make-believe is simply wrong, they say. Especially these days, they contend, when children spend more time in front of screens and less time in unsupervised play, kids need careful adult guidance and instruction before they are able to play in a productive way.
从表面上看，梁和鲍德罗娃似乎属于第二阵营。她们毕竟认为玩耍应该居于儿童早期课堂的中心位置，并且确实对学前预备方式有意见。两人声称，在实践中，“不让一个孩子掉队”(No Child Left Behind)时期推广的众多儿童早期学术举措并没有显著改善孩子们的学术技能。与此同时，她们也并不认为解决方案是未正式组织的自由玩耍。那种认为孩子们生来就具备丰富的想象力，天生就会玩虚构游戏的浪漫想法，是完全错误的。尤其是在当下这个时代，当孩子们在各种屏幕前度过大量时间，无人监督的玩耍时间少之又少的时候，他们更需要大人的悉心指导，唯如此，孩子们才能玩出成效。
Bodrova and Leong began working together with early-childhood teachers in 1992, soon after Bodrova immigrated from Russia to be a visiting professor at Metropolitan State College of Denver, where Leong was a professor of child development. When they visited local classrooms, they were struck by how out of control things often seemed. It was a period when preschool and kindergarten teachers were taught to “follow the child’s lead,” to let children guide the learning process with their own interests and unfettered imaginations. In practice, Bodrova and Leong observed, classrooms were often chaotic free-for-alls.
1992年，梁和鲍德罗娃开始与幼儿教师一起合作。鲍德罗娃当时刚刚从俄罗斯移居至美国，在丹佛大都会州立学院(Metropolitan State College of Denver)担任客座教授，梁则是这所学院的儿童发展学教授。参观当地学校时，课堂上时常出现的混乱场景让她们震惊不已。在那段时期，学龄前和幼儿园教师被要求“跟随孩子的指引”，让孩子根据自己的兴趣和无拘无束的想象力引领学习过程。在实践中，梁和鲍德罗娃发现，课堂往往是一派为所欲为的失控场面。
Bodrova and Leong had both studied Vygotsky, and they discussed whether some of his methods might help improve the climate of these classrooms. For Vygotsky, the real purpose of early-childhood education was not to learn content, like the letters of the alphabet or the names of shapes and colors and animals. The point was to learn how to think. When children enter preschool, Vygotsky wrote, they are “slaves to their environment,” unable to control their reactions or direct their interests, responding to whatever shiny objects are put in front of them. Accordingly, the most important goal of prekindergarten is to teach children how to master their thoughts. And the best way for children to do that, Vygotsky believed, especially at this early age, is to employ various tools, tricks and habits that train the mind to work at a higher level. So Tools of the Mind students learn to use “private speech” — to talk to themselves as they do a difficult task (like, say, forming the letter W), to help themselves remember what step comes next (down, up, down, up). They use “mediators”: physical objects that remind them how to do a particular task, like CD-size cards, one with a pair of lips and one with an ear, that signify whose turn it is to read aloud in Buddy Reading and whose turn it is to listen. But more than anything, they use play.
梁和鲍德罗娃都曾经学习过维果茨基的学说，她们一起探讨是否可以用他的某些方法来改善这些课堂的气氛。在维果茨基看来，儿童早期教育的真正目的不是学习内容，比如字母表中的字母或形状、颜色和动物的名称。关键是要学会如何思考。当孩子进入幼儿园，维果斯基写道，他们就成为“周围环境的奴隶，”面对任何一个摆放在他们面前的闪亮玩意儿，他们根本无法控制自己的反应，引导自己的兴趣。因此，学龄前教育最重要的目标是教会孩子们如何掌握自己的想法。维果茨基认为，对于孩子们（尤其是年龄这么小的孩子）来说，要做到这一点的最佳方式莫过于使用各种工具，技巧和习惯，以训练大脑在一个更高层次上运行。所以，接受心智工具培训的学生需要学会“私密谈话”——意思是，做一项艰巨任务时尝试着与自己交谈——以帮助自己记住接下来的步骤（向下，向上，向下，向上）；需要学会使用“中介物”，即提醒他们如何做特定任务的物品，比如CD般大小的卡片，一个画着一对嘴唇，一个画着一只耳朵，用以显示在进行伙伴阅读(Buddy Reading)时该轮到谁朗读，该轮到谁聆听。但更重要的是，他们要会玩。
Most of Vygotsky’s counterparts in the field of child psychology, including influential figures like Jean Piaget and Maria Montessori, held that imaginary play was an immature form of expression, a preliminary stage of development. But Vygotsky maintained that at 4 or 5, a child’s ability to play creatively with other children was in fact a better gauge of her future academic success than any other indicator, including her vocabulary, her counting skills or her knowledge of the alphabet. Dramatic play, he said, was the training ground where children learned to regulate themselves, to conquer their own unruly minds. In the United States, we often associate play with freedom, but to Vygotsky, dramatic play was actually the arena where children’s actions were most tightly restricted. When a young boy is acting out the role of a daddy making breakfast, he is limited by all the rules of daddy-ness. Some of those limitations come from his playmates: if he starts acting like a baby (or a policeman or a dinosaur) in the middle of making breakfast, the other children will be sure to steer him back to the eggs and bacon. But even beyond that explicit peer pressure, Vygotsky would say, the child is guided by the basic principles of play. Make-believe isn’t as stimulating and satisfying — it simply isn’t as much fun — if you don’t stick to your role. And when children follow the rules of make-believe and push one another to follow those rules, he said, they develop important habits of self-control.
维果茨基的大部分同行，包括像让·皮亚杰(Jean Piaget)和玛丽亚·蒙特梭利(Maria Montessori)这样一些颇具影响力的儿童心理学学者，都认为虚构游戏是一种不成熟的表达形式，属于心智发展的初级阶段。但维果茨基坚称，相较于其他任何指标（比如词汇量，计数能力和字母知识），一位四五岁的孩子能否创造性地与其他孩子一起玩耍，其实可以更为精确地估计他或她日后能否获得学业成功。他说，戏剧表演是孩子们学习如何调节自己，如何征服不羁心灵的训练场。在美国，我们经常把游戏与自由联系在一起，但在维果茨基看来，戏剧表演实际上是孩子们的行为受到最严格限制的竞技场。当一个小男孩表演爸爸做早餐时，他就受到与这一角色有关的所有规则的限制。其中有些限制来自他的玩伴：如果做早餐时，他表现得像个婴儿（或者像警察或恐龙），其他孩子肯定会把他的注意力引导回鸡蛋和咸肉上面。但维果茨基会说，即使没有明确的同伴压力，这个孩子还是会以基本的游戏规则为指导。如果你不恪守你扮演的角色形象，虚构游戏就没有那么刺激，就不会让人满足，当然也就没那么有趣了。当孩子遵守虚构游戏的规则，并敦促其他孩子这样做的时候，他们就是在形成极其重要的自我调节习惯。
Bodrova and Leong drew on research conducted by some of Vygotsky’s followers that showed that children acting out a dramatic scene can control their impulses much better than they can in nonplay situations. In one experiment, 4-year-old children were first asked to stand still for as long as they could. They typically did not make it past a minute. But when the kids played a make-believe game in which they were guards at a factory, they were able to stand at attention for more than four minutes. In another experiment, prekindergarten-age children were asked to memorize a list of unrelated words. Then they played “grocery store” and were asked to memorize a similar list of words — this time, though, as a shopping list. In the play situation, on average, the children were able to remember twice as many words. Bodrova and Leong say they see the same effect in Tools of the Mind classrooms: when their students spend more time on dramatic play, not only does their level of self-control improve, but so do their language skills.
鲍德罗娃和梁借鉴了一些维果茨基追随者的研究成果。这些研究显示，表演戏剧性场景的孩子能够比他们在非表演场合下更好地控制自己的冲动。在一个实验中，4岁的孩子们首先被要求尽可能长时间地站着不动。他们通常坚持不了一分钟。但当孩子们玩一个由他们扮演工厂保安的虚构游戏时，他们至少能够保持超过4分钟的立正姿势。在另一项实验中，学龄前孩子被要求记住一组类似的单词——但这一次是作为一份购物清单。鲍德罗娃和梁说，她们在应用心智工具的课堂上看到了同样的效果：当孩子们花费更多时间从事戏剧表演时，他们的自我控制力，甚至语言技能都出现明显提升。
In the past, when psychologists (or parents or teachers or priests) tried to improve children’s self-control, they used the principles of behaviorism, reinforcing good and bad behaviors with rewards and punishments. The message to kids was that terrible things would happen if they didn’t control their impulses, and the role of adults, whether parents or preschool teachers, was to train children by praising them for their positive self-control (“Look at how well Cindy is sitting!”) and criticizing them for their lapses. And in most American prekindergartens and kindergartens, behaviorism, in some form, is still the dominant method. But Bodrova and Leong say that those “external reinforcement systems” create “other-directed regulation” — good behavior done not from some internal sense of control but for the approval of others, to avoid punishment and win praise and treats. And that, they say, is a kind of regulation that is not particularly valuable or lasting. Children learn only how to be obedient, how to follow orders, not how to understand and regulate their own impulses. The ultimate goal of Tools of the Mind is not emotional or physical self-regulation; it is cognitive self-regulation — not the ability to avoid grabbing a toy from the kid next to you (though that’s an important first step), but the much more subtle ability to avoid falling for a deceptively attractive wrong answer on a test or to concentrate on an arduous mental task. And those abilities are more difficult to affect by other-directed regulation. Because the abilities are more abstract, they are less likely to be elicited by rewards. Kids are rarely able to organize their thoughts better in order to get an ice-cream cone.
在过去，当心理学家（家长，老师或牧师）试图提高孩子的自我控制力时，他们往往遵循行为主义原则，即奖励好行为，惩罚坏行为。给予孩子的讯息是，要是他们不控制自己的冲动，可怕的事情就会发生。成年人（不管是父母，还是幼儿教师）扮演的角色是，赞美积极的自我控制行为（“看辛迪站得多好啊！”），批评过失行为，以期达到培养孩子的效果。在美国的大多数学前班和幼儿园中，以某种形式出现的行为主义原则依然是占主导地位的教育方法。但鲍德罗娃和梁认为，这些“外部强化系统”创造的是“其他人引导下的调节”——好行为并非源自内部的控制意识，而是为了获得他人的认可，避免惩罚，赢得赞誉和优待。她们说，这种调节没有特别大的价值，很难持续下去。孩子们只是学会了如何听话，如何听从指令，而不是如何理解和调节自己的冲动。心智工具的终极目标不是情绪或身体的自我调节；它是认知方面的自我调节——不是避免从旁边那个小孩手中抓走一个玩具的能力（尽管这是非常重要的第一步），而是一种更加微妙的能力，比如能够在考试时避免选择一个看似吸引人的错误答案，或者能够专注于一项艰巨的心理任务。这些能力更加难以受到“其他人引导下的调节”的影响。由于这类能力更加抽象，它们不大可能被各种奖励诱导出来。如果是以获得一个冰淇淋甜筒为目的，孩子们几乎是不可能更好地组织其想法的。
As a result, many practices that most prekindergarten teachers consider essential are more or less banned from Tools of the Mind classrooms. There are no gold stars, no telling the class that they are all going to have to wait until Jimmy is quiet; even timeouts are discouraged. When there is a conflict — when, say, Billy grabs a toy from Jamal — the Tools of the Mind teacher’s first questions are supposed to be: What was it in the classroom that made it hard for Billy to control himself? And what mediators could help him do better next time? The teacher does remind Billy that there is a rule and he broke it, but she doesn’t make a big deal out of the incident. “We pretty much try not to use this whole concept of misbehavior,” Bodrova told me. “These kids are not born criminals. Even if they do something that is completely out of bounds, they do it because they can’t stop themselves.”
因此，在心智工具课堂上，许多在大多数学前班教师看来至关重要的措施都被或多或少地禁止了。没有金色星星，也不会要求全班同学必须耐心等待，直至吉米安静下来；甚至不鼓励课堂超时。每当出现冲突时，比如说比利从贾马尔手中抓走了一个玩具，心智工具指导老师首先应该问这样一些问题：课堂上究竟出了什么状况，让比利难以控制自己？什么中介物可以帮助他下一次有所改善？老师的确会提醒比利，他打破了一个规则，但她不会把这件事搞得挺严重似的。“我们尽量避免使用不正当行为这个概念，”鲍德罗娃告诉我。“这些孩子并非生来就是罪犯。即使孩子有越轨行为，那也是因为他们无法阻止自己。”
There are not yet firm experimental data that prove that Tools of the Mind works. But two early studies that began in the late 1990s in Denver showed some promising results: After a year in the program, students did significantly better than a similar group on basic measures of literacy ability. And more recent studies, including one overseen by Adele Diamond, a professor at the University of British Columbia who is one of the most prominent researchers in the field of cognitive self-control, have shown that Tools students consistently score higher on tests requiring executive function. Angela Duckworth told me that when she read Diamond’s report, which was published in Science in 2007, “I got very excited.” Her failed 2003 study had persuaded her that the usual approach to self-control in early-childhood education, a brief intervention here or there, wouldn’t work. But Tools of the Mind was clearly a different strategy. “It’s an immersion approach,” she said. “It’s not that these kids are pulled out and they do self-control for half an hour a day. Everything is about self-regulation, every single moment. Everything about the culture that the classroom creates reinforces that.”
迄今还没有坚实的实验数据能够证明心智工具非常奏效。但两项始于20世纪90年代后期，在丹佛实施的研究显示出一些可喜的成果：从几个基本的识字能力指标来看，参加过一年心智工具培训的学生明显好于一个类似组别。而最近的研究进一步显示，在参加要求执行功能的测试时，接受过心智工具培训的学生始终能够获得更高的分数。认知自我调节领域最知名的学者之一，英属哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)教授阿黛尔·戴蒙德(Adele Diamond)参与了其中一项研究的监督工作。安吉拉·达克沃斯告诉我，2007年，当她在《科学》杂志(Science)读到戴蒙德的研究报告时，“我万分激动。”2003年那项以失败告终的研究一度迫使她认为，通常使用的那些旨在提升学龄前儿童自控力的教育方式，即零散且短暂的干预行为，是行不通的。但心智工具显然是一种迥然不同的战略。“它是一种侵泡式方法，”她说。“不是把这些孩子拽出来，让他们每天接受半个小时的自我调节训练。在这种教育方式下，每一项活动，每一个时刻，都跟自我调节相关。课堂创造的种种文化都是在加强这种技能。”
It’s one of the reasons that visiting a Tools of the Mind classroom can cause moments of cognitive dissonance. While there’s a lot of dressing up and playing with blocks, plenty of messing around with sand tables and Legos and jigsaw puzzles, there are also a few activities that seem not just grown-up but protocorporate, borrowed directly from the modern office. Every morning, before embarking on the day’s make-believe play, each child takes a colored marker and a printed form called a play plan and draws or writes his declaration of intent for that day’s play: “I am going to drive the choo-choo train”; “I am going to make a sand castle”; “I am going to take the dollies to the beach.” At the beginning of prekindergarten, children are coached on dramatic play — called Make-Believe Play Practice — with the teacher leading the children, step by step, through the mechanics of pretending. (The training manual describes how a teacher might coach a child to feed a baby doll: “I’m pretending my baby is crying. Is yours? What should we say?”) In kindergarten, every student carries around a clipboard with the day’s activities on it — that’s what Abigail was writing on at the listening center — and each Friday, every child has a 5- or 10-minute “learning conference” with his teacher, a mini-performance review in which the children discuss what they accomplished in the last week, where they fell short and what skills they want to work on in the week to come. All of these practices, along with plenty of others that fill the day, are designed to reinforce habits of self-control.
这就是参观一个心智工具课堂或许会让你时不时陷入认知失调的原因之一。虽然有很多乔装打扮和玩积木的场景，也有一些孩子在那里摆弄沙盘，乐高玩具(Legos)，玩拼图游戏，但还有不少看上去似乎是成年人的活动，甚至可以说是直接从写字楼借鉴而来的职场行为。每天早上，在从事当天的虚拟游戏之前，每个孩子都拿出一支彩笔和一张被称为表演计划的印刷体表格，然后画上或写上他或她参加当天游戏活动的意向声明：“我要开噗噗火车”；“我要造一个沙堡”；“我要把娃娃带到海滩去。” 刚上学前班时，孩子们需要接受戏剧表演——所谓的“虚构游戏实践”(Make-Believe Play Practice)——方面的指导，老师会一步一步地引导他们了解表演的机理。（培训手册描述了老师应该如何指导孩子喂婴儿娃娃：“我假装我的宝宝正在哭闹。你的呢？我们应该怎么说？”）在幼儿园，每位孩子都随身携带一个写着当天活动安排的剪贴板——这就是阿比盖尔当时在听音中心写的东西。每周五，每个孩子都要与老师进行一个5或10分钟的“学习会议”。在这个迷你绩效考核中，孩子们会讨论他们在上一周获得的成就，不足之处，以及他们打算在未来一周改善的技能。所有这些做法，以及当天的大量其他活动，都是为了加强自我调节习惯。
This comprehensiveness creates an extra level of complication for researchers examining Tools of the Mind. There are now four separate large-scale long-term experimental studies under way across the country. But even if the researchers do find, in a few years, that the program has long-term effects on executive function and school performance, they still won’t know exactly which techniques in the Tools of the Mind package are the most useful, or whether they all need to be employed in concert in order to have an effect. Stephanie M. Carlson, a professor of child psychology at the University of Minnesota who studies executive function, told me she is impressed with what she has seen so far of Tools of the Mind. But, she pointed out, “it’s a really heavy-hitting approach, and there are a lot of different techniques used during the course of the day. What we don’t know is what the secret ingredient is.” It might be all the dramatic play, but it also might be the literacy practice, or the learning conferences, or something else entirely.
这种无所不包的全面性，使得心智工具的评估工作变得更加复杂。目前全美有4项独立的长期实验研究正在大张旗鼓地进行中。但即使研究人员在几年后发现这项实验能够对执行功能和在校表现产生长期影响，他们依然无法确知究竟哪项心智工具技术是最有用的，是不是需要协调使用所有技术才能产生效果。明尼苏达大学专门研究执行功能的儿童心理学教授斯蒂芬妮·卡尔森(Stephanie M. Carlson)对我说，心智工具迄今为止产生的成果给她留下了深刻的印象。但她指出，“这真的是一种极具魄力的方式，在一天当中使用了大量不同的技术。我们所不知道是，哪个神秘成分究竟是什么。”它可能是所有这些戏剧表演，但也可能是识字练习，学习会议，或别的什么东西。
In the end, the most lasting effect of the Tools of the Mind studies may be to challenge some of our basic ideas about the boundary between work and play. Today, play is seen by most teachers and education scholars as a break from hard work or a reward for positive behaviors, not a place to work on cognitive skills. But in Tools of the Mind classrooms, that distinction disappears: work looks a lot like play, and play is treated more like work. When I asked Duckworth about this, she said it went to the heart of what was new and potentially important about the program. “We often think about play as relaxing and doing what you want to do,” she explained. “Maybe it’s an American thing: We work really hard, and then we go on vacation and have fun. But in fact, very few truly pleasurable moments come from complete hedonism. What Tools does — and maybe what we all need to do — is to blur the line a bit between what is work and what is play. Just because something is effortful and difficult and involves some amount of constraint doesn’t mean it can’t be fun.”
最终，心智工具研究最持久的影响或许是，它将挑战我们对于学习和游戏边界的基本看法。如今，游戏被大多数教师和教育学者视为用功学习后的一种休息，或者是对正面行为的一种奖励，而不是一个致力于提高认知技能的场所。但在心智工具课堂上，这种区分消失了：学习看起来很像是游戏，游戏更多地被视为学习。当我询问达克沃斯对这一问题的看法时，她说，这正是心智工具不落俗套，意义重大的关键所在。“我们经常认为娱乐就是放松，就是做你想做的事情，”她解释说。“我们美国人或许就是这样生活的：我们非常辛苦地工作，然后去度假，玩个尽兴。但事实上，一门心思地追求享乐几乎不会带来真正令人愉悦的时刻。心智工具所做的事情（或许我们每个人都需要这样做）就是稍微模糊一下工作和娱乐之间的界限。仅仅因为某件事情需要付出努力，有些难度，涉及一定程度的约束，并不意味着它就不好玩。”