IN a couple of weeks, my daughter will turn into a dolphin. Right now, she’s a fox. Last year, she was a cricket.
几周后，我的女儿将变成一只海豚。现在，她是狐狸。去年，她是蟋蟀。
That’s just how it works at the Montessori school where she goes. Instead of “4-year-olds” and “5-year-olds,” or even “preschoolers” and “kindergartners,” each class is given an animal name and, at the end of every school year, the children graduate into being a different species entirely, shape-shifting like spirits in an aboriginal legend.
她所在的蒙特梭利小学就是这样。孩子们不是按照“四岁”、“五岁”或“学前班”、“幼儿园”来区分年级，而是用一种动物的名字。每学年结束，他们将变化为另一种完全不同的物种，就像神话传说里的精灵一样变换身形。
It can be a little alarming to step back and realize just how animal-centric the typical American preschool classroom is. Maybe the kids sing songs about baby belugas, or construction-paper songbirds fly across the walls. Maybe newborn ducklings nuzzle in an incubator in the corner. But the truth is, my daughter’s world has overflowed with wild animals since it first came into focus. They’ve been plush and whittled; knitted, batiked and bean-stuffed; embroidered into the ankles of her socks or foraging on the pages of every storybook.
退一步想想，美国的普通学前班如此以动物为中心，还真有些令人惊讶。也许孩子们会唱关于小白鲸的歌曲，墙上挂满纸做的鸣禽。也许有一群初生的小鸭子挤在角落的保温箱中。然而真实情况是，我女儿的世界从一开始就充盈着野生动物。它们长着长绒毛，被削切成型；有编织的、蜡染的、塞满小豆子的；绣在小袜子的脚踝处，散布在每一本故事书里。
Most parents won’t be surprised to learn that when a Purdue University child psychologist pulled a random sample of 100 children’s books, she found only 11 that did not have animals in them.
普渡大学(Purdue University)的儿童心理学家随机取样了100本儿童读物，发现其中只有11本不含动物。大多数家长不会对此感到惊讶。
But what’s baffled me most nights at bedtime is how rarely the animals in these books even have anything to do with nature. Usually, they’re just arbitrary stand-ins for people, like the ungainly pig that yearns to be a figure skater, or the family of raccoons that bakes hamantaschen for the family of beavers at Purim. And once I tuned in to that — into the startling strangeness of how insistently our culture connects kids and wild creatures — all the animal paraphernalia in our house started to feel slightly insane. As Kieran Suckling, the executive director of the conservation group Center for Biological Diversity, pointed out to me, “Right when someone is learning to be human, we surround them with nonhumans.”
但当我在给孩子讲睡前故事时，感觉最为大惑不解的是，这些书中的动物与大自然是那么不相关。通常，它们只是设定好的人物替身。比如一心想成为花样滑冰选手的笨笨猪，和在普林节上为海狸们烤犹太小点心的浣熊一家。当我意识到一个令人吃惊的怪异现象——我们的文化是如此坚定地把儿童与野生动物联系在一起时，我们家里有关动物的一切都略显荒唐了。正如动物保护组织生物多样性研究中心(Center for Biological Diversity)执行主管基兰·萨克林(Kieran Suckling)曾对我说的那样：“每当一个人开始学习成为‘人’时，我们就在他周围放满其他动物。”
SCIENCE has some explanations to offer. Almost from birth, children seem drawn to other creatures all on their own. In studies, babies as young as 6 months try to get closer to, and provoke more physical contact with, actual dogs and cats than they do with battery-operated imitations.
科学给我们提供了解释。几乎从一出生起，孩子们就自发地被其他生物吸引。有研究表明，6个月大的小宝宝会想要亲近并触摸真正的猫猫狗狗，而不是电动的玩具猫狗。
Infants will smile more at a living rabbit than at a toy rabbit. Even 2-day-old babies have been shown to pay closer attention to “a dozen spotlights representing the joints and contours of a walking hen” than to a similar, randomly generated pattern of lights.
婴儿会对真兔子，而不是玩具兔子绽放笑容。相比起一堆随机形成的光斑图案来说，即使是只有两天大的小婴儿也会对“模拟母鸡行走的动作与外形的光斑组合”给予更多关注。
It all provides evidence for what the Harvard entomologist Edward O. Wilson calls “biophilia” — his theory that human beings are inherently attuned to other life-forms. It’s as though we have a deep well of attention set aside for animals, a powerful but uncategorized interest waiting to be channeled into more cogent feelings, like fascination or fear.
以上这些为哈佛(Harvard)昆虫学家爱德华·O·威尔逊(Edward O. Wilson)所谓的“热爱生命的天性”提供了依据。他的理论是：人类天生与其他物种心性相通。就好像我们专为动物留有深深一池子的注意力，一种有力而又不明确的兴趣，亟待转化为更强烈的感受，如迷恋或恐惧。
Young children have been shown to acquire fears of spiders and snakes more quickly than fears of guns and other human-manufactured dangers. And in this case, the researchers Judith H. Heerwagen and Gordon H. Orians offer one logical, evolutionary explanation: if you are an infant or toddler spending a lot of time on the ground, it pays to learn quickly to fear snakes and spiders. Fear of big predators like bears and wolves, on the other hand, doesn’t kick in until after age 4, around when the first human children would have begun roaming outside of their camps.
有证据显示，相比枪或其他人为制造的危险品，小孩子会更早对蛇和蜘蛛产生恐惧。对此，研究者朱迪斯·H·赫尔瓦根(Judith H. Heerwagen)和高登·H·奥利恩斯(Gordon H. Orians)提出了一个合逻辑的、进化角度的解释：如果一个婴儿或幼儿每天有大量时间在地上玩耍，那么，尽快建立对蛇和蜘蛛的恐惧是有益处的。然而，对于大型捕食者——比如熊和狼的恐惧，要到4岁以后才会产生。那时候，早期人类的小孩开始去营地外游荡了。
Children also fixate on animals in their imaginative lives. In her book “Why the Wild Things Are,” Gail F. Melson, a psychologist at Purdue, reports that kids see animals in the inkblots of the Rorschach test twice as often as adults do, and that, when a Tufts University psychologist went into a New Haven preschool decades ago and asked kids to tell her a story that they’d made up on the spot, between 65 and 80 percent of them told her a story about animals. (The heartbreaking minimalism of one of these stories, by a boy named Bart, still haunts me: “Once there was a lion. He ate everybody up. He ate himself up.”)
在想象的世界里，儿童也关注着动物。普渡大学心理学家盖尔·F·梅尔森(Gail F. Melson)在《之所以为野生生物》(Why the Wild Things Are)一书中写到：进行罗夏测验(Rorschach test)时，儿童从墨水斑点中看出动物的比例是成年人的两倍。无独有偶，几十年前，塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)的心理学家走进纽黑文一家幼儿园，让孩子们给她现场编个故事，65%-80%的小孩子讲了有关动物的故事。（其中一个故事实在简约得令人心碎，教我至今无法忘怀。一个名为巴特的小男孩说：“从前有一头狮子，他把大家都吃了，把自己也吃了。”）
The psychologist David Foulkes concluded that 61 percent of the dreams that children have between the ages of 3 and 5 years old are about animals. But as kids grow up, Dr. Foulkes found, the percentage of animal dreams goes down. By the time they are 12, it’s only 20 percent. At age 16, it’s 9 percent.
心理学家戴维·福克斯(David Foulkes)总结：在3-5岁儿童的梦中，61%与动物相关。但随着年龄增长，动物梦的比例逐渐下降。到12岁时，只有12%；16岁时，仅剩9%。
Similarly, fears of exotic beasts like lions and sharks peak during preschool, then are gradually replaced by more sociological terrors, like kidnapping and not fitting in at school. I found a melancholy subtext in this research — the way our grittier human world intrudes on, and then finally blots out, even the wildlife in children’s heads.
类似的，对于外来野兽，如狮子和鲨鱼的恐惧会在幼儿园时达到最高峰，然后它们渐渐被社会中的恐怖事件取代，像绑架、无法融入学校环境等等。在这份调查中，我读出了灰暗的潜台词——这就是我们粗糙坚硬的人类社会如何侵入儿童的大脑，最终竟把野生动物的部分完全抹杀掉了。
Still, it’s also true that we foist animals on our children. Adults have always tended to see kids and animals as vaguely equivalent, or at least more like each other than like us. “Children,” Sigmund Freud wrote in 1913, “show no trace of the arrogance which urges adult civilized men to draw a hard-and-fast line between their own nature and that of all other animals.” Kids begin life naked, unable to speak, and appear motivated only by instincts and urges. Like a pet dog, a baby needs to be fed, housebroken, and taught to sleep through the night without howling.
当然，我们也确实将动物的概念强加在儿童身上。成年人总是倾向于认为孩子和动物差不多，或者至少像动物的程度胜于像我们。西格蒙德·弗洛伊德(Sigmund Freud)在1913年写到：“儿童一点都不傲慢自大。成年的文明人则由这种傲慢自大驱使，在人类与其他一切生物之间划上了严格的分界线。”小孩子赤裸裸地来到世界上，不懂得语言表达，只依照本能和冲动行事。就像宠物狗一样，小孩子需要被喂养、被管教、被教会如何在晚上安安静静地睡而不大声哭喊。
For Freud, this animalness was problematic: socializing children meant molding their wildness into humanity. But these days, it’s easy to feel that society needs the taming — it’s despoiling so much of the natural world. And so, unsettled by the loss of wild things and places, and separated from those landscapes in the cities and suburbs that replaced them, we may be prone to romanticizing our wild children the same way we sometimes romanticize wild animals — as purer and gentler spirits than the society we’ve brought them into.
对弗洛伊德来说，“动物性”是有待解决的问题：将儿童社会化意味着要把他们的野性塑造成人性。不过现在，我们清楚地认识到，社会需要这种驯化——它会夺走很多天然的东西。并且，由于失去了野生生物和野生地域，城市和郊区取代了野生景色，人们被迫与之分割开来所造成的困惑不安，我们似乎倾向于把充满野性的儿童浪漫化，就如同浪漫化野生动物一样：比起将带领他们走进的社会而言，孩子们是一种更为纯真、温和的灵魂。
I’m not arguing that seeing a link between kids and animals is an exclusively modern phenomenon — that it’s some anxious, overcompensatory affectation of nature-deprived Americans, like those elaborate stone shower stalls, made to look like waterfalls and grottos, or the Paleo Diet. The link has always been there. (Dr. Melson notes that many of the oldest, prehistoric toys discovered include animal-shaped rattles and little wooden crocodiles.) But the meaning we wring from that connection clearly changes over time. In short, maybe we keep giving animal stuff to kids because their imaginations already brim with animals. But maybe, now, it’s also the other way around: maybe we long to see children and animals together, as free creatures living in an innocence we’ve strayed from.
我并非要说在孩子与动物之间建立联系是个绝对现代化的现象——好比那些与大自然分离太久的美国人急切地、过度矫情地迷恋自然：使用精美的石头浴房，修饰得像瀑布和岩洞一般，或者采取石器时代的饮食——其实这种联系自古以来就存在。（梅尔森教授曾提到，很多出土的远古史前时代的玩具里，都有动物形状的拨浪鼓和小木头鳄鱼。）然而，人们对于这种联系的解释却随着时间推移发生了变化。简而言之，我们一直塞给孩子们动物形状的玩具也许是因为他们的头脑中本就充斥着动物。但现在，或许可以反过来说：是我们希望把儿童和动物摆在一起，把他们看做是一类生存在我们早已远离的天真世界中的自由生命。
THERE’S really no way to know: most psychology research about kids and animals dissects children’s one-to-one relationships with pets, not their abstract feelings about wildlife or the many representations of it they encounter. The best investigation of those vicarious relationships I found dates from 1983. That was when Stephen R. Kellert, a social ecologist at Yale, and Miriam O. Westervelt, of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service interviewed kids at 22 schools in Connecticut, in grades 2 through 11, to gauge their attitudes toward wildlife. What they discovered is an obvious but deflating truth: little kids are like animals, too necessarily consumed by their own interests to register much concern or compassion for other animals in the abstract.
真的没办法知道二者谁为真。很多有关儿童和动物的心理学研究都仔细剖析过孩子与宠物间的一对一关系，而非他们对野生生物或任何代表野生生物的事物的抽象感觉。我找到的最好的替代关系研究进行于1983年。耶鲁大学(Yale)社会生态学家斯蒂芬·R.凯勒特(Stephen R. Kellert)和美国野生动物署(United States Fish and Wildlife Service)的米丽亚姆·O·韦斯特维尔特(Miriam O. Westervelt)采访了康涅狄格州22名2年级至11年级的学生，调查他们对于野生生物的态度。他们发现了一个不争却令人泄气的事实：小孩子确实像动物，他们过于追求自己感兴趣的事情，结果无法对其他动物从理论上产生关心与同情。
Kids under the age of 6 especially “were found to be egocentric, domineering, and self-serving,” Dr. Kellert later wrote, summarizing the study. “Young children reveal little recognition or appreciation of the autonomous feelings and independence of animals” and “also express the greatest fear of the natural world.” It was the younger kids, not the 8th or 11th graders, who were more likely to believe that farmers should “kill all the foxes” if a particular fox ate their chickens; that it’s O.K. to slaughter animals for fur coats; that most wild animals are “dangerous to people”; and that all poisonous animals, like rattlesnakes, “should be gotten rid of.” It was the younger kids who were more likely to agree with the statement “It’s silly when people love animals as much as they love people,” whereas virtually none of the teenagers believed it was silly. Most second graders agreed with the statement “If they found oil where wild animals lived, we would have to get the oil, even if it harmed the animals.” Eleventh graders overwhelmingly did not.
6岁以下的儿童尤其“自私、专横、我行我素，”凯勒特教授后来总结研究时写道：“幼儿几乎不能意识或领会到动物也有自主情感，也是独立的。他们同时对自然界抱有巨大的恐惧。”正是那些年幼的孩子，而不是8年级或11年级的学生，更可能认为“农民应当杀死所有的狐狸——如果某一只狐狸偷吃了鸡”；认为“杀掉动物取其毛皮做大衣是没问题的”；认为“大多数野生动物对人都是很危险的”；认为“一切有毒的动物，比方说响尾蛇，应当被灭绝”。越年幼的小孩越可能认同“人们喜爱动物与喜爱人的程度相同是愚蠢的”。相反，基本上没有哪个青少年觉得这是愚蠢的。大多数2年级学生同意“如果人们发现某个野生动物生存的地方有石油，我们就应该去开采石油，尽管这可能危害到动物。”而绝大多数11年级学生认为这样做是不对的。
“Our society frequently romanticizes young children’s attitudes toward animals,” Dr. Kellert has written, “believing that they possess some special intuitive affinity for the natural world and that animals constitute for young people little friends or kindred spirits.” But the data was clear: the younger the kids, the more “exploitative, harsh and unfeeling” they were — the more their relationship to wildlife was based on the satisfaction of “short-term needs and anxiety toward the unknown.” Older kids wanted to go camping in wildlife habitats; younger ones wanted “to stay where lots of other people were.”
“社会总是把小孩子对待动物的态度浪漫化，”凯勒特教授写到：“我们相信孩子们对自然界有着特殊的、本能的爱；并相信动物是小孩子的好朋友或知心伴侣。”可惜证据确凿：儿童年龄越小，越“好剥削、严苛、冷酷无情”；他们与野生动物的关系更多建立在“满足短期需求与对未知事物的强烈好奇上。”年龄大一些的孩子会想去野外环境中露营，而年幼的儿童则更愿意“呆在有很多人的地方”。
We like to imagine our children as miniature noble savages, moving peacefully and naked among the beasts. But they’re more like the colonists: greedy, vindictive, wary, shortsighted and firing panicky musket shots at any rustling in the woods. It’s not their fault. They are behaving like children.
我们一厢情愿地把孩子想象成迷你版纯真善良的原始人，在野兽间坦率平静地穿行。但其实他们更类似殖民者：贪婪、睚眦必报、警觉、目光短浅，会朝着任何风吹草动惊慌失措地开炮。这不是他们的错，他们只是做孩子会做的事。
And maybe, I’ve come to realize, that’s exactly the point. It may not matter whether the connection between children and animals is real or imagined; if watching my daughter chase butterflies on a sunny day feels so good and life-affirming because she’s fulfilling some innate impulse — momentarily finding her ecological niche — or only because she’s fulfilling some wistful, pastoral fantasy of mine. Maybe it’s a little of both. Maybe, as with so many parenting questions, the truth gets lost in that mysterious wilderness between our children’s identities and the ones that we are urging them toward.
也许，我逐渐意识到，这才是关键：儿童和动物之间的联系究竟是真实抑或是幻想出来的，可能并不重要。看着我的女儿在夏日里追逐蝴蝶，我身心愉悦、倍感鼓舞。也许因为她满足了内在的冲动，暂时找到了她的生态位(ecological niche)；也许仅仅因为她满足了我所渴望的田园幻想。或许，二者皆有。又或许，正如其他许许多多有关育儿方式的问题一样，事实被遗落在儿童真正的本性和我们所希望他们成为的身份之间那片神秘的荒野中了。
Ultimately, all these animals that we fill our children’s lives with — the frustrated goats who learn to compromise, the worried skunk who makes it through her first day of school, the teddy bear that needs to be hugged and tucked in — are also just proxies. They are useful, adorable props, props that we sense command our kids’ attention in some deep, biophilic way. And so we use them to teach our children basic lessons of kindness or self-possession or compassion — to show our kids what sort of animals we’d like them to grow up to be.
最终，一切我们试图填进孩子生活中的动物们——沮丧的、学习着妥协的公羊，在紧张中捱过上学第一天的臭鼬姑娘，需要抱抱、掖好被子的泰迪熊——都仅仅是替代品。它们是有价值的、可爱的道具。我们利用这些道具以深刻、热爱生命的方式左右孩子们的注意力。我们也利用它们教会孩子基本的善良、沉着与同情——告诉他们我们希望哪一种动物能够融入他们的生命。