Of 3,200 children’s books published in 2013, just 93 were about black people, according to a study by the Cooperative Children’s Book Center at the University of Wisconsin.
据威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)联合儿童图书中心(Cooperative Children’s Book Center)的一份研究报告表明，在2013年出版的3200本儿童书籍中，只有93本是和黑人相关的。
Reading came early to me, but I didn’t think of the words as anything special. I don’t think my stepmom thought of what she was doing as more than spending time with me in our small Harlem apartment. From my comfortable perch on her lap I watched as she moved her finger slowly across the page. She probably read at about the third grade level, but that was good enough for the True Romance magazines she read. I didn’t understand what the stories were about, what “bosom” meant or how someone’s heart could be “broken.” To me it was just the comfort of leaning against Mama and imagining the characters and what they were doing.
我从很小就开始阅读了，但我那时并没有把文字视作什么特别的东西。我想我的继母在我们位于哈莱姆的那间小公寓里给我念书的时候也没多想，她不过认为自己是在陪我消磨时光罢了。我会舒服地趴在她的腿上，看着她的手指缓缓划过页面。我继母的阅读能力可能只有小学三年级水平，但这对她念给我听的《真实罗曼史》(True Romance)杂志来说也足够了。我那时还不太明白这些故事都说的什么，“胸怀”是什么意思，以及为什么有的人会“心都碎了”。对我来说，最大的乐趣就在于可以靠着妈妈，想象着那些角色，猜想他们在做什么。
Later, when my sisters brought home comic books, I got Mama to read them to me, too. The magazines and comics pushed me along the road of the imaginative process. When I got my first books — “The Little Engine That Could,” “Bible Stories for Every Day,” and “Goldilocks and the Three Bears” — I used them on the same journeys. In the landscape of my mind I labored as hard as I could to get up the hill. I stood on the plain next to David as he fought Goliath, and tasted the porridge with Goldilocks.
后来，我的姐姐们也往家里带回了一些漫画书，我便也要妈妈读给我听。正是这些杂志和漫画把我推向了一个富于想象的历程。后来，当我拿到第一批属于我自己的书，比如《万能小引擎》(The Little Engine That Could)、《每日一则圣经故事》(Bible Stories for Every Day)和《金发姑娘和三只小熊》(Goldilocks and the Three Bears)等等——我也用它们来展开同样的旅程。在我的脑海里，我会尽自己最大的努力来攀爬山丘（《万能小引擎》里的故事情节——译注）；当大卫和巨人歌利亚(Goliath) 在平原上搏斗时，我就站在大卫的旁边；金发姑娘喝粥时，我仿佛也和她一起尝到了粥的味道。
As a teenager I romped the forests with Robin Hood, and trembled to the sound of gunfire with Henry in “The Red Badge of Courage.” Later, when Mama’s problems began to overwhelm her, I wrestled with the demons of dealing with one’s mother with Stephen Dedalus in “A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.” But by then I was beginning the quest for my own identity. To an extent I found who I was in the books I read. I was a person who felt the drama of great pain and greater joys, whose emotions could soar within the five-act structure of a Shakespearean play, or find quiet comfort in the poems of Gabriela Mistral. Every book was a landscape upon which I was free to wander.
到了十多岁的时候，我已经在脑海里和罗宾汉一起叱咤森林，也和《红色英勇勋章》(The Red Badge of Courage)里的亨利一起在炮火声中颤抖。后来，当妈妈的问题让她开始无力招架，我便和《一个青年艺术家的画像》(A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man)里的斯蒂芬·迪德勒斯(Stephen Dedalus)一样，开始和跟妈妈过不去的魔鬼较劲儿。那时，我也刚刚开始探寻自己的身份。从某种程度上讲，我从我读的书里找到了我是谁，那就是一个可以感知大悲和大喜的人（当然喜的程度更深），一部五幕的莎士比亚戏剧就可以让我的情绪上天入地，而加夫列拉·米斯特拉尔(Gabriela Mistral)的诗句又可以让我平静缓和下来。在我看来，每本书都是一幕独特的风景，任我在其中徜徉。
In the dark times, when my uncle was murdered, when my family became dysfunctional with alcohol and grief, or when I realized that our economics would not allow me to go to college, I began to despair. I read voraciously, spending days in Central Park reading when I should have been going to school.
在一些难熬的日子里，比如当我的叔叔被人谋杀后，我们全家因为悲伤和酗酒变得萎靡不振，或是当我意识到我们家的经济情况并不允许我去上大学，我开始感到了绝望。我更加如饥似渴地阅读，即便是在该去上学的日子也可以在中央公园待上好几天，看个不停。
But there was something missing. I needed more than the characters in the Bible to identify with, or even the characters in Arthur Miller’s plays or my beloved Balzac. As I discovered who I was, a black teenager in a white-dominated world, I saw that these characters, these lives, were not mine. I didn’t want to become the “black” representative, or some shining example of diversity. What I wanted, needed really, was to become an integral and valued part of the mosaic that I saw around me.
然而，这其中似乎还缺了点什么。除了圣经里面的人物，我还需要更多的角色来帮我认清自我，即便是亚瑟·米勒(Arthur Miller)的戏剧，甚至我最钟爱的巴尔扎克笔下的角色也不够。后来，我渐渐认识到了自己是谁，那就是一个白人主导的世界里的黑人少年，而我意识到这些书中的角色及他们的生活和我并不相同。我并不想成为“黑人”的代表或是什么“多样化”的华丽例子。我真正想要，确切地说是需要的是，成为自己眼前如万花筒般的世界里不可分割且备受认可的一部分。
Books did not become my enemies. They were more like friends with whom I no longer felt comfortable. I stopped reading. I stopped going to school. On my 17th birthday, I joined the Army. In retrospect I see that I had lost the potential person I would become — an odd idea that I could not have articulated at the time, but that seems so clear today.
在那之后，书籍也并没有就此成为我的敌人，而是更像我已经不能坦然相处的朋友。我不再阅读，不再上学。在我17岁生日那天，我加入了军队。现在回想起来，那时的我已经弄丢了自己原本会成为的人——这是一个奇怪的想法，虽然我在那时还不能够表达，但这个念头在现在看来却无比清晰。
My post-Army days became dreadful, a drunken stumble through life, with me holding on just enough to survive. Fueled by the shortest and most meaningful conversation I had ever had in a school hallway, with the one English teacher in my high school, Stuyvesant, who knew I was going to drop out, I began to write short columns for a local tabloid, and racy stories for men’s magazines. Seeing my name in print helped. A little.
从军队退役后的日子非常难熬，就像一个喝醉酒的人在跌跌撞撞地前行，只保留了稍微那么一点理智来让自己活下去。在知道我要辍学之后，我在史岱文森高中(Stuyvesant High)的一位英语老师跟我在学校的走廊上进行了一次我人生中最简短但却最有意义的谈话。在这次谈话的鼓励下，我开始为一份本地的通俗小报撰写小专栏，还为一些男性杂志撰写一些活泼的小文章。必须要说，看见自己的名字变成铅字对我来说有所帮助，但也很少。
Then I read a story by James Baldwin: “Sonny’s Blues.” I didn’t love the story, but I was lifted by it, for it took place in Harlem, and it was a story concerned with black people like those I knew. By humanizing the people who were like me, Baldwin’s story also humanized me. The story gave me a permission that I didn’t know I needed, the permission to write about my own landscape, my own map.
后来，我读到了詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)的一篇小说：《萨尼的蓝调》(Sonny’s Blues)。我并不很喜欢这则故事，但我的心绪却因为它而感到轻松了许多，因为这则故事发生在哈莱姆，而故事的主人公和我熟知的人们一样，也都是黑人。鲍德温的故事给这些和我一样的人赋予了人性，也让我感到了自己的人性，就像给了我一种许可，那就是对我自己的生活版图进行写作的许可，而我之前甚至不知道自己需要它。
During my only meeting with Baldwin, at City College, I blurted out to him what his story had done for me. “I know exactly what you mean,” he said. “I had to leave Harlem and the United States to search for who I was. Isn’t that a shame?”
在城市大学(City College) ，我和鲍德温有过唯一一次会面，我向他倾诉了他的故事给我带来的影响。“我完全懂你的意思，”他说。“我为了找寻自己的身份，不得不离开哈莱姆和美国，这难道不可悲吗？”
When I left Baldwin that day I felt elated that I had met a writer I had so admired, and that we had had a shared experience. But later I realized how much more meaningful it would have been to have known Baldwin’s story at 15, or at 14. Perhaps even younger, before I had started my subconscious quest for identity.
那天和鲍德温分别后，我对自己见过了一位让我如此崇拜的作者，并且还和他有一段类似的经历感到十分得意。后来我才意识到，假如我在十四五岁就看过了鲍德温的故事该多好，甚至还应该更早，在我下意识开始寻找自己的身份之前，那些的话这些故事对我来说会更有意义。
TODAY I am a writer, but I also see myself as something of a landscape artist. I paint pictures of scenes for inner-city youth that are familiar, and I people the scenes with brothers and aunts and friends they all have met. Thousands of young people have come to me saying that they love my books for some reason or the other, but I strongly suspect that what they have found in my pages is the same thing I found in “Sonny’s Blues.” They have been struck by the recognition of themselves in the story, a validation of their existence as human beings, an acknowledgment of their value by someone who understands who they are. It is the shock of recognition at its highest level.
现在，我成了一名作家；不过在我看来，我也像个景观艺术家：我为那些贫民区的年轻人描绘他们熟悉的场景，然后在这些场景里加入各种他们熟悉的人物，如兄弟、朋友和姑妈。已经有上千个年轻人跑来告诉我说，他们因为这个或那个理由而喜欢我的书，但我强烈怀疑的是，他们也不过是从我的书里发现了当年我在《萨尼的蓝调》这本书里发现的东西。从我的故事中，他们猛然认出了自己，对自己作为人的存在找到了依据，并且通过一个真正了解他们是谁的人确认了自己的价值。而这，就是认可带来的最大程度的震撼。
I’ve reached an age at which I find myself not only examining and weighing my life’s work, but thinking about how I will pass the baton so that those things I find important will continue. In 1969, when I first entered the world of writing children’s literature, the field was nearly empty. Children of color were not represented, nor were children from the lower economic classes. Today, when about 40 percent of public school students nationwide are black and Latino, the disparity of representation is even more egregious. In the middle of the night I ask myself if anyone really cares.
以我现在的年龄，我发现自己已经不仅在检审我毕生的作品，还已经开始思考要如何把手中的接力棒传下去，好让那些为我所看重的东西得以延续。1969年，当我刚开始踏入儿童文学界，这个领域几乎是一片空白。有色人种的小孩从没在童话故事里出现过，下层社会的小孩也是如此。现在，全美国范围内的公立学校约40%的学生都是非洲裔或拉美裔，而他们和白人小孩在书中被呈现的差距更加显得触目惊心。我常常在午夜梦回问我自己，对此到底有没有人真的在意？
When I was doing research for my book “Monster,” I approached a white lawyer doing pro bono work in the courts defending poor clients. I said that it must be difficult to get witnesses to court to testify on behalf of an inner-city client, and he replied that getting witnesses was not as difficult as it sometimes appeared on television. “The trouble,” he said, “is to humanize my clients in the eyes of a jury. To make them think of this defendant as a human being and not just one of ‘them.’ ”
在我为我的《怪物》(Monster)一书做调研时，我接触到了一位在法庭里无偿为穷困的当事人辩护的白人律师。我问他说，要找到那些愿意出庭为出生贫民区的当事人作证的证人一定很难吧，他回答说，寻找证人并不像电视上有时候演的那么难，“真正棘手的地方在于让陪审团把我的当事人当成一个有血有肉的人看，而不是‘那些人’当中的一员，”他说。
I realized that this was exactly what I wanted to do when I wrote about poor inner-city children — to make them human in the eyes of readers and, especially, in their own eyes. I need to make them feel as if they are part of America’s dream, that all the rhetoric is meant for them, and that they are wanted in this country.
而我忽然意识到，这也正是我在写那些贫民区的小孩时想做的事——让他们在读者的眼中成为一个个鲜活的个体，更重要的是让他们自己也这么认为。我想让他们觉得自己是美国梦的一部分，他们受得起任何的修辞和描述，并且他们在这个国家是有价值的。
Years ago, I worked in the personnel office for a transformer firm. We needed to hire a chemist, and two candidates stood out, in my mind, for the position. One was a young white man with a degree from St. John’s University and the other an equally qualified black man from Grambling College (now Grambling State University) in Louisiana. I proposed to the department head that we send them both to the lab and let the chief chemist make the final decision. He looked at me as if I had said something so remarkable that he was having a hard time understanding me. “You’re kidding me,” he said. “That black guy’s no chemist.”
多年以前，我曾在一个变压器公司的人事部工作。有一次，我们需要招聘一名药剂师；在我看来，有两名候选人是这个职位的杰出人选，一个是从圣约翰大学(St. John’s University)毕业的白人小伙，另一个是从关柏林大学（Grambling University，现为关柏林州立大学）毕业、具备相似资历的黑人小伙。我向部门领导建议说，可以把他俩都派到实验室去，让实验室主任来最终决定。部门领导看着我，仿佛我说的话奇怪得让他一时难以理解。“你是在和我开玩笑吗，”他说，“那个黑人才做不了药剂师。”
I pointed out the degrees on the résumé that suggested otherwise, and the tension between us soared. When I confronted my superior and demanded to know what about the candidate from Grambling made him not a chemist, he grumbled something under his breath, and reluctantly sent both candidates for an interview with the chief chemist.
我向他指出，黑人小伙的简历和学历都显示他够格，于是我俩之间的紧张氛围骤升。后来，我和这位上级对峙，让他指出这个关柏林大学毕业的候选人有哪点不能做药剂师。他压低嗓门嘟囔了句什么，才勉勉强强让两位候选人都去实验室主任那里接受面试了。
Simple racism, I thought. On reflection, though, I understood that I was wrong. It was racism, but not simple racism. My white co-worker had simply never encountered a black chemist before. Or a black engineer. Or a black doctor. I realized that we hired people not so much on their résumés, but rather on our preconceived notions of what the successful candidate should be like. And where was my boss going to get the notion that a chemist should be black?
简直就是种族歧视，我当时想。不过再一想，我却意识到我错了。这是种族歧视，但却不是简单的种族歧视。在那之前，我的那位白人同事从来就没见过一位黑人药剂师，或者黑人工程师，或者黑人医生。我意识到，我们录取员工的标准并不是他们的简历，而是我们头脑中关于一个成功应聘者的先入为主的设定和印象。话说回来，我当时的老板哪里能想得到一个黑人也可以做药剂师呢？
Books transmit values. They explore our common humanity. What is the message when some children are not represented in those books? Where are the future white personnel managers going to get their ideas of people of color? Where are the future white loan officers and future white politicians going to get their knowledge of people of color? Where are black children going to get a sense of who they are and what they can be?
书籍传授价值，探索我们共同的人性。而当一些小孩从没在书里出现过，这意味着什么？未来那些白人人事经理将从何渠道获取对有色人种的印象？未来那些白人贷款专员和白人官员将从何渠道对有色人种进行了解？未来那些黑人小孩将从何了解自己是谁，以及自己将来可能成为什么人？