This was a week in which travels told the tale. President Obama went to Europe and Saudi Arabia to try to shore up old alliances; the first lady, Michelle Obama, and her daughters went east to woo the Chinese; President Xi Jinping of China headed west to be wooed by the Europeans; and Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of the German engineering giant Siemens, went to Moscow to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin, saying that his company’s lucrative relationship with Russia would not be sidetracked by “short-term turbulence.”
这是用旅行来说话的一周。奥巴马总统去了欧洲和沙特阿拉伯，试图支持老盟友；第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)携女儿东行，向中国示好；中国主席习近平西行，接受欧洲的示好；德国机械制造业巨头西门子(Siemens)首席执行官乔·凯瑟尔(Joe Kaeser)前往莫斯科与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)会晤，称公司与俄罗斯之间有利可图的关系不会受“短期动荡”的影响。
Other travelers who illustrated the limitations of “isolating Russia,” to use Mr. Obama’s threat, were two Russians and an American who blasted off together from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Tuesday and, after a maneuvering glitch, docked with the International Space Station on Thursday. The station has been continuously occupied for more than 13 years, with Russian Soyuz spacecrafts shuttling astronauts to and from the station. The new crewmen, Aleksandr Skvortsov, Oleg Artemyev and Steven Swanson, were welcomed aboard by Koichi Wakata of Japan, Rick Mastracchio of the United States and Mikhail Tyurin of Russia.
还有一些出行的人也证明了奥巴马“孤立俄罗斯”这一威胁的效力有限，包括两名俄罗斯人和一名美国人。周二，这三人在哈萨克斯坦的拜科努尔航天发射场(Baikonur Cosmodrome)一起升空。周四，在经历了一个机动上的小故障后，他们与国际空间站(International Space Station)对接。在超过13年的时间里，这个空间站一直有人，俄罗斯“联盟号”(Soyuz)宇宙飞船一直在向空间站接送宇航员。新去的航天员亚历山大·斯克沃尔佐夫(Aleksandr Skvortsov)、奥列格·阿尔捷米耶夫(Oleg Artemyev)和史蒂夫·斯瓦森(Steven Swanson)在空间站上受到了来自日本的若田光一(Koichi Wakata)、来自美国的里克·马斯特拉基奥(Rick Mastracchio)和来自俄罗斯的哈伊尔·秋林(Mikhail Tyurin)的欢迎。
The travels produced great images — the United States Embassy in Beijing reported that more than a billion views were garnered by the videos, photos and stories of Mrs. Obama doing tai chi, romping with her daughters on the Great Wall and feeding pandas. Mr. Xi donned a new-model Mao suit for a formal dinner in the Netherlands. And I spent some quality time with my wife and daughter in a taxi stopped on the Boulevard Henri IV in Paris as the Republican Guard cavalry in red-plumed helmets clip-clopped past to greet the Chinese president.
这些出行产生了很大的影响——北京的美国大使馆(United States Embassy)通报称有关奥巴马夫人打太极、和女儿在长城上嬉戏、喂大熊猫的视频、照片和新闻报道获得了超过10亿点击量。在荷兰，习近平身着新式中山装出席一次正式晚宴。在巴黎，欢迎中国主席的共和国卫队骑兵头戴镶有红色羽饰的头盔咯噔咯噔地走过，我和妻女乘坐的出租车被堵在亨利四世大道上，渡过了一段颇为充实的时光。
The travels also produced some hard questions, one of which was whether “the West” in its confrontation with Mr. Putin over Ukraine showed itself to be more a union of values or a marriage of convenience. Speaking to a youthful audience at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels on Wednesday, Mr. Obama offered a rousing invocation of a continuing “contest of ideas” in which Russia’s annexation of Crimea endangered the international system that Europe and the United States had constructed to foster democracy and rule of law.
这些出行也带来了一些难题，其中之一是，在因乌克兰问题而与普京产生的对峙中，“西方”表现出来的更多的是一个价值观联盟，或者说一场权宜婚姻。周三在布鲁塞尔艺术中心(Palais des Beaux-Arts)对年轻听众发表演讲时，奥巴马发出了一道令人兴奋的檄文，称“观念之争”一直在继续，并表示在这场斗争中，俄罗斯吞并克里米亚一事危及欧美为培养民主和法治而建立起来的国际体系。
Mr. Obama had not made an extended trip to Europe in some time, and part of his challenge was to bolster a flagging trans-Atlantic solidarity. “We must meet the challenge to our ideals — to our very international order — with strength and conviction,” he declared in one of several rousing passages.
奥巴马已经很久没有大规模出访欧洲了，而且他面临的部分挑战是增强大西洋两岸日渐虚弱的团结。他说，“我们必须用力量和信念迎接我们的观念——我们的国际秩序——受到的挑战，”这是演讲中几个令人热血沸腾的片段之一。
Those ideals and values were undoubtedly still a powerful beacon for much of the world, but their strength has ebbed, with few European countries willing to meet even the minimum agreed target of spending 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense (the United States spends 4.1 percent), and convictions have been shaken by several years of economic travails. Mr. Obama’s visit coincided with municipal elections in France in which a frustrated electorate punished the established parties of left and right by casting a large number of ballots for the far right.
毫无疑问，对全世界的许多地方而言，那些理念和价值观依然是一座强大的灯塔，但它们的影响已经减弱了。在欧洲，几乎没有国家愿意落实之前的约定，将至少2%的国内生产总值用于国防（美国的这一比例为4.1%），多年的经济不景气动摇了坚定的信念。奥巴马出访欧洲之际，法国正在进行地方选举。选举期间，失望的选民将大量选票投给了极右翼，以此惩罚有权势的左翼和右翼政党。
While Mr. Obama was in Brussels, Mr. Kaeser of Siemens was in Russia on a trip planned before the Ukrainian crisis, and met with Mr. Putin and Aleksei Miller, the chief executive of the Russian energy giant Gazprom who escaped the United States and European Union sanctions lists. Whether Mr. Kaeser was right or wrong to go depended on who was commenting. Germany’s Green Party criticized the trip, while the deputy chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Ralf Stegner, declared that such dialogue was “better than sanctions, blocking accounts or rhetorical displays of strength.” Trade between Germany and Russia amounted to about 76 billion euros last year.
奥巴马访问布鲁塞尔时，西门子的凯瑟尔正在访问俄罗斯，他的俄罗斯之行在乌克兰危机爆发前就已经安排好了。凯瑟尔同普京，以及逃过美国和欧盟制裁的俄罗斯能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)首席执行官阿列克谢·米勒(Aleksei Miller)举行了会面。凯瑟尔此行是对还是错，全看评论人是谁。德国绿党(Green Party)抨击此次访问，而社会民主党(Social Democratic Party)的拉尔夫·施戴格纳(Ralf Stegner)却宣称，这种对话“比实施制裁、封锁账户或虚张声势地展示实力要高明多了。”去年，德国和俄罗斯之间的贸易额高达760亿欧元（约合6490亿元人民币）。
Still, the West did respond to the Ukrainian crisis in what may prove to be the most effective way it can. The International Monetary Fund approved up to $18 billion in urgently needed credits for Ukraine, which could unlock further credits for a total of $27 billion over the next two years. And the United States Congress finally got past its habitual infighting to clear a $1 billion aid package for Ukraine. That, hopefully, will give the next government in Ukraine the respite it needs to rebuild its economy and start on its long-delayed westward shift.
尽管如此，西方确实对乌克兰危机做出了回应，事实可能会证明，这是它能采取的最有效的回应之道。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)批准了高达180亿美元的贷款以解乌克兰的燃眉之急，接下来的两年，IMF还可能进一步发放贷款，总额可高达270亿美元。美国国会最终挺过了惯常的内斗，批准了10亿美元的一揽子援乌计划。这些援助有望让乌克兰新政府获得必要的喘息，进而重建经济，启动乌克兰推迟已久的入欧转型。
In a reassuring demonstration that the rest of the world was not entirely neutral on what Russia had done, the United Nations General Assembly voted 100 to 11, with 58 abstentions, to reject Russia’s arguments for grabbing Crimea. Itar-Tass, the Russian news agency, said the vote showed that Russia was not isolated. Voting with Russia were Armenia, Belarus, Bolivia, Cuba, North Korea, Nicaragua, Sudan, Syria, Venezuela and Zimbabwe.
联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)以58票弃权，100票支持、11票反对的结果否决了俄罗斯夺取克里米亚的主张，这一结果再次显示，对于俄罗斯的所作所为，全球各国的立场并非是完全中立的。俄罗斯通讯社塔斯社(Itar-Tass)称，此次投票显示，俄罗斯并不是孤立的。投票支持俄罗斯的国家有亚美尼亚、白俄罗斯、玻利维亚、古巴、朝鲜、尼加拉瓜、苏丹、叙利亚、委内瑞拉和莫桑比克。
Against this backdrop, the China visits reaffirmed the primacy of commercial ties. This was familiar choreography — building relations with the rising power.
在此背景下，米歇尔·奥巴马的访华之行再次阐明了商业纽带至上的现实。和正在崛起的大国建立关系，这是个熟悉的套路。