Trip Cullman, the prolific Off Broadway theater director, compares decorating his apartment to conceiving the set for a play. “Every decision is vetted through me, but in the happiest circumstances, it’s a creative collaboration,” he said.
一位执导了大量戏剧作品的外百老汇(Off Broadway)剧团导演特里普·卡尔曼(Trip Cullman)，将公寓的装修设计与戏剧舞台布景作了一番比较。“每个决定我都会仔细审核，但在最愉快的氛围当中，这是一种创造性的合作。”他说。
Mr. Cullman, 39, happily collaborated on the design of his NoHo loft with his mother, Elissa Cullman, the co-author with Tracey Pruzan of “The Detailed Interior” (Monacelli Press, 2013) and a founder of Cullman & Kravis, which is a perennial on Architectural Digest’s list of 100 leading architects and designers.
今年39岁的卡尔曼开开心心地与母亲合作设计了他的NoHo（net office home office，网络与家庭办公——译注）跃层公寓。他的母亲艾丽莎·卡尔曼(Elissa Cullman)不仅是与特雷西·普鲁赞(Tracey Pruzan)合著了《室内精装修》（Monacelli出版社，2013年）一书的作者，而且还是Cullman & Kravis公司的创始人，这家公司常常登上《建筑学文摘》(Architectural Digest)的“100名领先建筑设计者”名录。
When he talks about his mother, Mr. Cullman sounds a bit star-struck. “I think of her as the Meryl Streep of decorating — she’s so versatile and she’s had a long career,” he said. “I was conscious growing up that she had an extraordinary eye. Our house may have been more formal than some of my friends’ places, but I never felt I couldn’t lie down on a couch to read a book or watch TV. The rooms she creates are aesthetically dazzling and filled with interesting things, but they are incredibly livable.”
每次谈起母亲，卡尔曼就有点追星族的感觉。“我认为她是装修界的梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)——她那样多才多艺，又长期从事一项工作，”他说，“我从小就意识到，她有一种非凡的眼光。我们家可能比一些朋友家装修得更正式一些，但我从不觉得自己没办法躺在沙发上看书或看电视。她设计的房间美得让人眼花缭乱，房里摆满了那些有趣的东西，但住起来又相当舒适。” 
Nearly a decade ago, when Mr. Cullman bought his 2,000-square-foot loft, he told his mother that it was important to respect the former factory’s bones. “From the get-go, I wanted to exploit the industrial stuff that was already here — the exposed ceiling and sprinkler system, the brick walls, which I’m obsessed with,” he said. “The kitchen and office area in the middle were closed off, and I said, ‘This is a loft. Let’s knock down some walls and make it really open.’ She had her doubts, but we were never at cross purposes. The apartment is really a marriage of my sensibility and hers.”
大约十年前，卡尔曼买下了这套面积2000平方英尺（约186平方米）的跃层公寓，当时他对母亲说，尊重这里曾经的厂房结构很重要。“从一开始，我就想充分利用这里早已具有的一些工业化特征——房顶裸露的天花板和喷淋系统，以及让我痴迷的这几面砖墙，”他说。“房屋中间的厨房与办公区域都隔了起来，于是我说，‘这是一套跃层公寓。我们拆掉那几面墙，打造完全开放的空间吧。’她有她的疑虑，但我们从不会有严重的分歧。这套公寓真正结合了我与她两个人的鉴赏力。”
The first things he asked his mother to design were built-ins for the main living area. “Bookshelves seem essential to the quality of how one lives,” Mr. Cullman said. “The wall where we built them is not brick, but my mom did this very clever thing. She put in a thin layer of brick on the back of the shelves to marry them to the opposite wall.”
他首先请母亲设计的，是主生活区内的一些嵌入式家具。“一个人的生活品质怎么样，关键似乎在于那些书架，”卡尔曼说。“我们用来做书架的这面墙不是砖砌的，但我妈妈做了件很聪明的事。她在书架后面放了薄薄的一层砖，用来搭配对面的那堵墙。”
The shelves hold a carefully arranged assortment of books, family photos, mementos and knickknacks. “These are my Disney Princess Pez dispensers,” he said. “This is my fourth-grade math project from the St. Bernard’s School that I did for Mr. Bazarini, who was the best teacher I ever had. He was instrumental in my choice of going into the theater, so I keep that out to remember him.” (Ronald Bazarini died in 2011.)
这些书架上有一些精心摆放好的物品，包括图书、全家福、纪念品与小摆设。“这些是我的迪士尼公主系列的皮礼士(Pez)糖果盒，”他说，“这是我在圣伯纳德学校读书时，为巴扎里尼老师做的四年级数学作业，他是我遇到的最好的老师，在我选择进入戏剧行业的过程中，他是一位关键人物，所以我把那样东西摆在书架上纪念他。”（罗纳德·巴扎里尼[Ronald Bazarini]已于2011年去世。）
His mother admires how he continually curates the vignettes on his shelves and tables. “It’s what I call re-tchotchkefying, which is my obsession,” she said. “I am glad that he’s been paying attention to me all these years.”
他母亲对他常常整理书架与桌面上小装饰品的行为赞不绝口。“这就是我所说的小装饰品的复兴，也是我最喜欢的风格，”她说，“我很高兴，这些年来他一直都在关注着我。”
A poster for his thesis production of “A Streetcar Named Desire” at the Yale School of Drama hangs between the bookcase and the front door. “I set it on the Lower East Side and had Stanley work in a meat factory, and there were slabs of beef hanging from hooks over Stella and Stanley’s apartment,” he said. “Blanche DuBois became a version of my grandmother.”
他在耶鲁戏剧学院(Yale School of Drama)的论文作品《欲望号街车》(A Streetcar Named Desire)的一张海报，就挂在书架与前门之间。“我把这个故事的背景设在了下东区(Lower East Side)。假如史丹利(Stanley)在肉制品厂工作，而且史黛拉(Stella)与史丹利的公寓里有成排的牛肉挂在那些钩子上，”他说，“那么布兰奇·杜波依斯(Blanche DuBois)就变成了我祖母的样子。 ”
Mr. Cullman is quick to explain he adored his maternal grandmother, Marsha Forman, who presided over the Peter Luger steakhouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. “My grandfather bought it from the Lugers, but my grandmother ran the business,” he said. “When I’d spend weekends at her house in Flatbush, she would sometimes put on her fur hat and coat and drive us to the meatpacking district in her white Cadillac. She would stick her perfectly manicured fingernail into a slab of beef, which was her secret way of determining if it was right for the restaurant.”
卡尔曼立刻解释说，他喜欢自己的外祖母玛莎·福曼(Marsha Forman)，她管理着那家位于布鲁克林威廉斯堡(Williamsburg, Brooklyn)的彼得·鲁格尔(Peter Luger)牛排餐厅。“我祖父从鲁格尔一家人手里买下了这间餐厅，但经营者是我的祖母，”他说，“我那时会去弗莱布什(Flatbush)她住的地方过周末，有时候，她会戴上皮帽、穿上大衣，然后开着那辆白色的凯迪拉克(Cadillac)，带我们去肉制品加工区。她会用精心修剪过的指甲在一块牛肉上戳一戳，这就是她判断这块肉是否适合这间餐厅的秘密方法。”
Mr. Cullman inherited the hospitality gene. “I love having an open kitchen so my friends can chat with me while I cook. If I weren’t a director, I’d be a chef,” he said. “I used to host a weekly poker game on Sunday nights, which are sacred to theater people because Mondays are our days off.”
卡尔曼继承了这种热情好客的基因。“我想有一间开放式的厨房，那样朋友们在我做饭时也能跟我聊天了。如果我没有当导演，那肯定会是一名厨师，”他说，“我过去常在周日的晚上主持每周一次的扑克游戏，因为周一是我们的休息日。”
The kitschy red leather ottomans resembling dice in front of the fireplace are a nod to those gambling evenings. “My mother and I found them in downtown Stamford, Conn., which is an antiques mecca,” he said. “It’s a huge secret that not a lot of civilians know about.”
壁炉前摆放的几张外形粗俗、很像骰子的红色皮质垫脚软凳，是对以前那些扑克之夜的一种致敬。“这是我和妈妈在康涅狄格州斯坦福德市(Stamford, Conn.)的市中心找到的，那里是古董家具的麦加圣城，”他说，“这是个巨大的秘密，知道的人并不多。”
The sofas in front of the fireplace were designed for him. “I said to my mom that I would love chocolate-brown corduroy couches, and this is what she came up with,” he said. “These are the best TV-watching couches in the world. They are very deep and when I have dinner parties, people just curl up in them.”
壁炉前的那几张沙发是专门为他设计的。“我对妈妈说，我喜欢巧克力色、灯芯绒面料的沙发，然后她就设计了这件作品，”他说，“这是世界上最好的看电视沙发。这些座位都非常深，在我举办晚餐派对的时候，人们都会蜷缩在沙发里。”
She also designed the faux limestone mantel where Mr. Cullman displays a plastic Oscar statuette for “Best Friend,” which was given to him at one of his annual Academy Awards parties. “I keep it there because there was a real Oscar on the mantel when I first saw the apartment,” he said. “Tatum O’Neal used to live here.”
她还设计了一座仿石灰石的壁炉架。卡尔曼在上面摆了一尊塑胶制的奥斯卡“最佳朋友”小金人，这是他有一年举办年度学院奖(Academy Awards)派对时得到的礼物。“我把这尊雕像放在那里是因为，我第一次看见这套公寓的时候，壁炉架上就放着一尊真正的奥斯卡雕像，”他说，“塔图姆·奥尼尔(Tatum O’Neal)曾经住在这里。”
Most of his show business memorabilia is kept in the guest room, where the walls are covered with framed posters for plays he’s directed.
他的那些戏剧纪念品大多数放在那间宾客房中，房间的墙壁上挂着许多装了画框的海报，那些都是他曾经执导过的戏剧作品。
“It’s my vanity room,” said Mr. Cullman, who directed a revival this spring of “The Substance of Fire” by Jon Robin Baitz at the Second Stage Theater on West 43rd Street. Next up for him in New York is Simon Stephens’ “Punk Rock,” an MCC Theater production that begins previews on Oct. 29 at the Lucille Lortel Theater.
“这里是我的名利场，”卡尔曼说，今年春天，他在西43街(West 43rd Street)的第二舞台剧院(Second Stage Theater)导演了新版的《壮志情仇》(The Substance of Fire)，乔恩·罗宾·贝茨(Jon Robin Baitz)的作品。接下来，他还将在纽约执导西蒙·史蒂芬斯(Simon Stephens)的《朋克摇滚》(Punk Rock)，由MCC剧团出品，并将于10月29日在Lucille Lortel剧院试演。
“The thing that is beautiful and sad about the theater is that it’s an evanescent art form. When a play closes, the production is gone forever. These posters are my only way to have something concrete from them.” (But he knows that videos of some of the plays he directed are available at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center, which is named for a great-aunt and uncle.)
“戏剧的美丽与感伤之处在于，这是一种短暂的艺术形式。当一场戏剧结束后，这部作品就永远逝去了。而这些海报是我从这些作品中留存下来的、唯一实实在在的东西。”（但他知道，他执导过的一些戏剧作品仍有录影资料存在纽约表演艺术公共图书馆[New York Public Library for the Performing Arts]的桃乐丝与路易斯·B·卡尔曼中心[Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center]，该中心是以他的曾伯祖父母命名的。）
Mr. Cullman also collects fine art. The dining area has two striking photographs: Diane Arbus’s 1965 picture of young couple on a bench in Washington Square Park, printed by Neil Selkirk, and Doug Hall’s enormous image of an empty Italianate opera house. A pair of painted wood wings — part of Mr. Cullman’s folk art collection, which includes many hand-me-downs from his mother — stands on the sideboard in front of the Hall photo.
卡尔曼还收藏美术品。这里的餐厅区有两幅惊人的摄影作品：一副是黛安娜·阿勃丝(Diane Arbus)于1965年拍摄的华盛顿广场公园长椅上坐着的一对年轻夫妇的照片，由尼尔·赛尔扣克(Neil Selkirk)印制；另一幅是道戈·霍尔(Doug Hall)拍摄的一座空荡荡的意大利歌剧院的巨幅照片。在霍尔这张照片前的餐具柜上，还放着一对画有图案的木翅膀，这也是卡尔曼的民间艺术藏品中的一部分，他的这些藏品中有许多传承物来自于他的母亲。