A pair of Primark cargo shorts made at a Bangladeshi sweatshop that collapsed last year, killing more than 1,100 people. The first 3-D printed handgun. An “Occupy Sandy” sign made by grass-roots organizers in New York after Hurricane Sandy.
伦敦——一条在孟加拉血汗工厂生产的普里马克(Primark)牌工装短裤。这家工厂去年倒塌，致使1100多人死亡。第一把3-D打印手枪。桑迪飓风过后纽约草根组织者制作的“占领桑迪”的标语。
These are among the objects going on view this month at the Victoria and Albert Museum here in separate exhibitions that push the boundaries of museum collecting and design. “Rapid Response Collecting,” which opened this past weekend, offers a new approach to how museums codify contemporary items as historical, while “Disobedient Objects,” which is to open on July 26, showcases material made by social movements worldwide.
这些是本月在伦敦维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆(Victoria and Albert Museum)的几个相互独立的展览上展出的一些物品，这些展览打破了博物馆收藏和设计的界线。上周末开幕的“快速回应收藏”展(Rapid Response Collecting)展示出博物馆从历史角度整理现代物品的新方法；将于7月26日开幕的“不顺从的物品”(Disobedient Objects)将展示世界各地的社会运动中制作的材料。
The exhibitions operate like agents provocateurs inside the Victoria and Albert, Britain’s pre-eminent applied art and design museum, challenging visitors to rethink their relationship to everyday objects and consider the human costs behind items from mass-produced clothing to electronic cigarettes. The exhibitions also prompt a reconsideration of the social history of other items in the museum’s august collection.
维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆是英国杰出的实用美术与设计博物馆。这些展览像是潜藏在该博物馆里的密使，激发游客们重新思考自己与日常用品之间的关系，思考从大量生产的服装到电子香烟这些物品背后的人力成本。这些展览还引发了对该博物馆的其他令人敬畏的藏品的社会历史的重新思考。
“Design isn’t always about nice tables and beautiful chairs,” Martin Roth, the museum’s director, said in a telephone interview last week. “All those objects really belong to everyone, that’s the amazing part of it, so what we’re doing right now is to bring the discussion from outside the museum inside the museum.”
“设计不总是与好看的桌子和漂亮的椅子有关，”馆长马丁·罗斯(Martin Roth)上周在电话采访中说，“所有那些物品真的属于每个人，这是它的令人惊异之处，所以我们现在做的是把博物馆外的讨论带到博物馆内。”
Rapid-response collecting represents a new strategy for the museum. The objects are chosen by four curators hired last year in the contemporary architecture, design and digital department, with a mandate to bring items of timely relevance into the permanent collection quickly. The four discuss and vet the objects, looking for items that tell a larger story about our time.
快速反应收藏是该博物馆的一个新策略。这些物品是当代建筑、设计和数字部去年招聘的四位策展人选择的，他们得到的指示是寻找能与永久藏品迅速联系起来的物品。这四位策展人讨论和审查这些物品，寻找能讲述关于我们的时代的更宏大的故事的物品。
Corinna Gardner, the curator of contemporary product design and rapid-response collecting at the Victoria and Albert, said that there had always been “something of the country home” about the museum, which is most famous for its William Morris textiles and its tea sets, and that the rapid-response initiative was a way to broaden the collection beyond work by professional designers.
维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆当代产品设计与快速反应收藏的策展人科琳娜·加德纳(Corinna Gardner)说，该博物馆一直有种“乡间住宅的感觉”。它最著名的藏品是威廉姆·莫里斯(William Morris)设计制作的纺织品和茶具。她说快速反应项目是为了拓展职业设计师的作品之外的藏品。
“It’s about finding a way for us to act, for the museum, that’s timely and in response to what’s happening in the world around us,” Ms. Gardner said. “It’s about us looking outward to see how events, important things that happen, are articulated in the field of design, or how those objects are part of that change.”
“对博物馆来说，它让我们找到一个方法及时回应我们周围世界发生的事情，”加德纳说，“它让我们向外张望，看看设计领域是如何表现重大事件的或者那些物品是如何成为变化的一部分的。”
The first 12 items on view in what will be a continuing rotation — and can be found on the museum’s public online database — include black cargo pants made for the Primark clothing brand at the Rana Plaza workshop in Dhaka, Bangladesh, which collapsed in April 2013, killing more than 1,100 people and generating outrage about working conditions in the garment industry. (Primark provided the pants for the exhibition and confirmed their provenance.)
前12个物品将不断循环展示，能在该博物馆的公共在线数据库中找到，包括在孟加拉达卡市拉纳大厦的车间里生产的普里马克(Primark)牌黑色工装裤。这座大厦2013年4月倒塌，导致1100多人丧生，引发了公众对服装业工作环境的愤怒（普里马克提供了展出的裤子并确认了出处）。
One case holds the Liberator, the first 3-D printed gun, made in 2013 in Texas by Cody Wilson, a libertarian law student who posted the design for the gun on his website until the United States government ordered him to remove it. The gun, the curators write, “transforms the way we think about new manufacturing technologies and the unregulated sharing of designs online.”
一个盒子里放着第一把3-D打印手枪解放者(Liberator)，它是2013年德克萨斯自由论法科学生科迪·威尔逊(Cody Wilson)制作的，他把手枪的设计方法发布在自己的网站上，直至美国政府命令他移除。策展人们写道，这把枪“改变了我们对新的制造技术及不加管控的在线设计分享的看法”。
By adding mass-produced items into its permanent collection and calling attention to sweatshop conditions behind some products, the Victoria and Albert is also taking a stance on what items it considers historical — making rapid-response collecting inevitably political. But the curators say they aren’t trying to be polemical.
维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆通过把大量生产的物品加入永久收藏中引起人们对一些产品背后的血汗工厂的工作环境的关注，在它认为具有历史意义的物品上表明了自己的立场——让快速反应收藏不可避免得具有政治意义。但是策展人们说他们不想挑起论战。
“The key thing is that we want the visitors to have the freedom of their imagination to draw their own conclusions about this object,” Kieran Long, the museum’s senior curator of contemporary architecture, design and digital, said about the 3-D gun.
“关键是我们想让参观者自由发挥自己的想像力，对这件物品做出自己的结论，”该博物馆的当代建筑、设计和数字部高级策展人基兰·朗(Kieran Long)提到这把3-D打印手枪时说。
As for the Primark pants, or a set of false eyelashes endorsed by the pop star Katy Perry and handmade by women in Indonesia, “what I want the visitors to experience is the moment where they can take a position around a very complex issue like globalized manufacturing or the impact of technology on all our lives,” Mr. Long added.
关于普里马克牌裤子或流行音乐明星凯蒂·派瑞(Katy Perry)转让的印尼妇女手工制作的假睫毛，基兰·朗说，“我想让游客们体验的是他们能在一个非常复杂的问题上采取一个立场，比如全球化生产或科技对我们所有人生活的影响。”
Other museums are taking notice.  The Museum of Modern Art in New York included the 3-D gun in an online debate, “Design and Violence.” Sebastian Chan, the director of digital and emerging media at the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum, in New York, called rapid-response collecting “a bold move” that “opens up a new way for the museum to engage the public in the social and political context of the designed products and services in the world around them.” He added that when the Cooper Hewitt reopens in December after a renovation, it will have space for “our own rapid-response initiatives and we will be watching the V&A’s work closely.”
其他博物馆也开始关注这个方向。纽约的现代艺术博物馆在网络辩论“设计与暴力”(Design and Violence)中包含了这把3-D手枪。纽约库珀·休伊特-史密森尼设计博物馆(Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum)的数字与新兴媒体部主管塞巴斯蒂安·陈(Sebastian Chan)称快速反应收藏是“一个大胆的举动”，“为博物馆开拓了一条新路，让公众参与到周围世界的设计产品与服务的社会政治环境中”。他补充说，库珀·休伊特博物馆今年12月整修后重新开放时，将“为我们自己的快速反应项目”设立展厅，“我们将密切关注维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆的动向”。
Rapid response isn’t the Victoria and Albert’s only experiment in politically engaged collecting. “Disobedient Objects,” an exhibition of 99 items selected from protest movements over the past three decades will be on view until Feb. 1. Almost all of the items are on loan from participants involved in the movements and won’t join the museum’s permanent collection.
快速反应不是维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆在涉及政治的收藏方面的唯一实验。“不顺从的物品”展览展示的是从过去三十年的抗议活动中挑选的99件物品。该展览将持续到明年2月1日。几乎所有的物品都是从参与抗议活动的人那里借来的，不会进入博物馆的永久藏品中。
The show includes papier-mâché and cardboard puppets made by the Bread and Puppet theater in Vermont to protest the first Iraq war, buttons from the 1980s in solidarity with an imprisoned Nelson Mandela and “Silence = Death” posters from the AIDS activists Act Up.
该展览包括佛蒙特面包与木偶剧团(Bread and Puppet)抗议第一次伊拉克战争时用混凝纸浆和硬纸板做的木偶；20世纪80年代纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)在狱中时穿的衣服上的钮扣；艾滋病宣传组织行动起来(Act Up)的海报“沉默=死亡”(Silence=Death)。
They are also putting on view a balloonlike inflatable silver cobblestone, a symbol of protest since the 19th century that was made in 2012 and used in demonstrations from Berlin to Barcelona, turning interactions between protesters and the police into a kind of political theater.
他们还展示了一个银色充气鹅卵石，鹅卵石从19世纪起就是抗议的象征。这个充气鹅卵石是2012年制作的，在从柏林到巴塞罗纳的很多示威中都使用过，它把抗议者和警察之间的互动变成了一种政治戏剧。
The exhibition “isn’t a canon, or a final word,” said Gavin Grindon, a visiting research fellow at the museum. “It’s an invitation to start thinking about social movements.” Mr. Grindon and Catherine Flood, a Victoria and Albert curator of prints, organized the show.
该博物馆的访问研究员加文·格林登(Gavin Grindon)说，这场展览“不是标准，也不是最终的发言权”，“它是邀请人们开始思考社会运动”。格林登与维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆的正式策展人凯瑟琳·弗勒德(Catherine Flood)一起组织了这场展览。