A party of ultraconservative Islamists that emerged as an unexpected political kingmaker in Egypt after the military’s ouster of President Mohamed Morsi said on Monday that it was suspending its participation in efforts to form an interim government.
军方罢黜了总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)之后，一个极端保守的伊斯兰派埃及政党出人意料地有了能够拥立政治领袖的力量。它于周一宣布将暂停参与组建临时政府。
A spokesman for the Al Nour party said its decision was a reaction to a “massacre” hours earlier at an officers’ club here in which security officials said over 30 people were killed. The decision brought new complexities and unanswered questions to the effort to create a transitional political order.
一位光明党(Al Nour party)的发言人表示，做出这一决定是因为数小时前在开罗一处军官俱乐部发生了一场“大屠杀”，安全官员们表示，超过30人被杀。在当前各方努力打造一个过渡政治秩序的时刻，该决定带来了新的复杂性和悬而未决的问题。
The Al Nour party, widely regarded two years ago as bumbling amateurs, was the only Islamist party to support removing Mr. Morsi despite his ties to the more moderate Islamists of the Muslim Brotherhood. And the sight of Al Nour’s bearded sheik standing behind the general who announced the takeover on television was the only signal to Egyptian voters that the move had not been an attack on Islam, as some of the ousted president’s supporters are saying.
两年前，人们普遍认为，光明党只是一个混乱的业余组织，它也曾是唯一支持罢黜穆尔西的伊斯兰派政党，尽管穆尔西与穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)较温和的伊斯兰主义者有着深厚联系。当军方将领在电视上宣布接管政权之时，长着胡须的光明党领袖就站在他身后。这个唯一的信号向埃及选民表明，军方的举动并非是在攻击伊斯兰教，虽然穆尔西的一些支持者这么说。
The party played a starring role in the military’s choreographed presentation of its takeover as the chance to reunify a country on the brink of civil war between opponents and supporters of Mr. Morsi’s Muslim Brotherhood. But while Al Nour’s leaders say they intend to build bridges, some liberals say the party is pushing potentially divisive demands, from picking a new prime minister to keeping Islam prominent in any new constitution.
军方认为，宣布接管政权的仪式是一次把国家从内战（双方分别为反对和支持穆尔西穆斯林兄弟会的人）边缘团结起来的机会，所以对此进行了精心安排，而光明党则在这个仪式上担任了主角。虽然光明党领袖表示他们要创建纽带，但一些自由派却表示，在选择新总理到保证伊斯兰教能在任何新宪法中都处于重要地位等问题上，该党或许正在催生分歧性的主张。
Over the weekend, Al Nour tested its leverage for the first time to force the retraction of an announced plan to name a liberal icon, the Nobel Prize-winning diplomat Mohamed ElBaradei, as interim prime minister.
上周末，光明党首次测试了自己的影响力。虽然有关方面已经宣布要任命自由派重要人物、曾获诺贝尔奖的外交官穆罕默德·巴拉迪(Mohamed ElBaradei)为临时政府总理，但光明党却强迫他们收回了这个决定。
“You just can’t do something like that, after we had appeared right next to you on the scene” at the televised announcement, Younis Makhyoun, a Nour party leader, said on Sunday. “We have grass roots,” Mr. Makhyoun added, “and they don’t agree on the choice of ElBaradei.”
周日在电视转播的仪式上，光明党领袖尤尼斯·马赫尤恩(Younis Makhyoun)说，“我们就在你们身旁，你们决不能这么做。我们是有群众基础的，他们不同意选择巴拉迪。”
Instead, state news media outlets reported on Sunday that the interim government was close to naming as acting prime minister Ziad Bahaa el-Din, a former head of Egypt’s investment authority. A Nour leader blessed him in a radio interview as “one of the liberal figures that we greatly respect.”
官方媒体周日报道称，临时政府正欲任命埃及前官方投资部门负责人齐亚德·巴哈丁(Ziad Bahaa el-Din)为代总理。一位光明党领袖在电台采访中对他表示了祝福，并说他是“我们非常尊敬的自由派人士之一”。
The party’s ability to block Mr. ElBaradei from the premiership raised new alarms from liberals about what the ultraconservatives, known as Salafis, might demand next, even after the expulsion of the more moderate Brotherhood.
鉴于光明党有能力阻止巴拉迪担任总理，自由派便开始担心，这些被称作萨拉菲派(Salafis)的极端保守人士接下来会有什么诉求，尽管连立场比萨拉菲派更温和的穆兄会都已经遭到了排挤。
“This stage of the revolution was against this type of Islamist party,” said Shady el-Ghazaly Harb, one of the organizers of the anti-Morsi protests. “We will not have any concessions when it comes to writing the constitution, and we will die for that,” he added, vowing that the charter should include “a separation of religion and politics, because parties should not be built on religion.”
“革命的这个阶段反对的就是这种伊斯兰派政党，”反穆尔西抗议运动的一位组织者沙迪·盖泽利·哈尔卜(Shady el-Ghazaly Harb)说。“在撰写宪法的问题上，我们绝不退让，我们可以为此付出生命，”他还说，他坚决表示，宪法应该规定“政教分离，因为政党不应该建立在宗教的基础上”。
Other organizers of the protests that helped force Mr. Morsi from office said they would stage new demonstrations in part against Al Nour.
曾帮助迫使穆尔西下台的其他抗议运动组织者表示，他们将组织新的示威活动，部分目的是反对光明党。
Many of the party’s old Islamist allies, meanwhile, are denouncing Al Nour’s leaders as traitors, if not apostates, for turning on Mr. Morsi and the Brotherhood.
与此同时，光明党很多过去的伊斯兰派盟友却对该党领袖表示了谴责，称他们攻击穆尔西和穆兄会的行为即使不算叛教，也算背信弃义。
 “They are being used to beautify or whitewash this military coup,” said Gehad el-Haddad, a Brotherhood spokesman. “They are making enemies on both sides.”
“为了美化和洗白这次军事政变，他们被利用了，”穆兄会发言人格哈德·哈达德(Gehad el-Haddad)说，“他们是在两面树敌。”
For the sheiks of Al Nour, though, the Brotherhood’s fall is also an extraordinary opening. “They have a chance to be the main Islamist player in politics in post-Morsi Egypt,” said Samer Shehata, a political scientist at the University of Oklahoma who studies Egypt’s Islamists.
但是，于光明党领袖而言，穆兄会的倒台也提供了一次难得的契机。俄克拉荷马大学(University of Oklahoma)研究埃及伊斯兰主义者的政治科学家萨默尔·谢哈塔(Samer Shehata)说，“他们获得了一次在后穆尔西时代的埃及政治中，成为主要伊斯兰派参与者的机会。”
“They see an opportunity to capitalize on the Brotherhood’s loss of support,” he said. “Who is left in formal politics under the banner of Islam now? It is the Nour party.”
“他们认为穆兄会失去支持是一个机会，要抓住机会，”他说。“现在在正式的政治体制中，还有谁高举着伊斯兰的大旗？是光明党。”
When the ultraconservative Islamists first entered politics here two years ago, liberals called them Neanderthals for demanding literal-minded Islamic law, and the leaders of the Brotherhood wrote them off as neophyte rubes.
这些极端保守的伊斯兰主义者两年前首次进入政坛时，因为他们要求照本宣科地实行伊斯兰教法，所以被自由派称为“尼安德特人”(Neanderthal)，而穆兄会领导层则认为他们是初学乍练的乡巴佬，对他们不屑一顾。
But the party’s tactics have demonstrated that it has developed skill at compromise and hardball.
然而光明党的战术表明，该党已经学会了做出妥协和采取强硬立场的技巧。
Before the Egyptian revolution of 2011, most Salafis — the name refers to the companions of the Prophet Muhammad — shunned electoral politics. Their sheiks taught respect for the ruler of the state and a focus on obeying God’s law. But after President Hosni Mubarak’s departure came more open elections, and Salafi parties captured nearly one-quarter of the seats in the new parliament and won the second-most seats after the Muslim Brotherhood. As Egypt became acutely polarized between the Brotherhood and its opponents in the run-up to last week’s takeover, the Nour party was almost alone in urging both sides to compromise for the good of the country.
在2011年埃及革命之前，多数萨拉菲派（“萨拉菲”一词指先知穆罕默德的伙伴）都回避选举政治。萨拉菲派长老教导他们要尊敬国家的统治者，关注于遵守真主的律法。但在胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)总统下台后，更开放的选举得以举行，萨拉菲派政党在新议会中占据了近四分之一席位，所获议席仅次于穆兄会，位居第二。在上周的接管之前，穆兄会和反对者的分歧令埃及产生了巨大的分裂，而敦促双方为了国家利益作出妥协的，几乎只有光明党。
Al Nour broke with other Islamists in the weeks before the mass protests started against Mr. Morsi’s rule, issuing a call for him to resolve the political crisis with a sweeping package of concessions. Al Nour asked the president to name a new consensus cabinet including more of his opponents, to remove an unpopular prosecutor he had appointed and to reconsider his gubernatorial appointments.    
在民众举行大规模抗议，反对穆尔西统治之前的数周，光明党脱离其他伊斯兰派组织的立场，发出呼吁要求他做出涵盖广泛的一系列让步，从而解决政治危机。光明党要求穆尔西提名一个让各派达成共识的内阁，将更多反对者纳入内阁，除名一位他任命的不受欢迎的检察官，并重新考虑他任命的省级领导人人选。
Then, when millions of Egyptians took to the streets against Mr. Morsi, Al Nour’s leaders were the only Islamist politicians to call for an early presidential election.
之后数百万埃及人走上街头反对穆尔西，伊斯兰派政治人物中，只有光明党领导人呼吁提前举行总统大选。
“We offered many initiatives, but the president rejected all of them, until we were all shocked by the numbers” of people in the streets, Mr. Makhyoun said. “How did he expect to run a country like this?”
马赫尤恩说，“我们提出了很多举措，但穆尔西全都回绝了。”直到有一天，街上游行的“人数之多让我们震惊了”。马赫尤恩说，“他怎么会认为能这样治理国家呢？”
When he was summoned to a meeting between the military leadership and opposition political groups on the morning of the takeover, Mr. Makhyoun said, he urged the opposition to give Mr. Morsi more time.
马赫尤恩说，在接管政权的那天早上，当他被召集出席军方领袖和反对派政治团体举行的一次会议时，他敦促反对派再给穆尔西一些时间。
“But we found that it was already over,” he said. “The armed forces had made up their minds, and the military was already moving on the streets.”
“但我们发现，已经结束了，”他说，“军方已经打定了主意，而且军队已经在向街头出动了。”
He said Al Nour decided to accept the removal of Mr. Morsi by the military as the lesser evil, in the hope of lessening strife in the country.
他说，光明党两害相较取其轻，决定接受由军方罢黜穆尔西，希望这样做可以减轻国内的纷争。
Now, the party intends to use its new influence to protect the incorporation of Islamic law into the constitution, which was approved in an Islamist-backed referendum in December.
现在，光明党期望利用新获得的影响力，确保将伊斯兰教法融入宪法。这一做法已经在去年12月一场由伊斯兰派支持的全民公决中得到通过。
Al-Nour is uniquely positioned to broker a new reconciliation of the political divide, said Bassam Al-Zarqa, the party's vice president. “We have been the only party between two extremes, the only one not playing a zero-sum game, ” he said. “We are the only ones who considered it a strategic mistake all along.”
光明党副主席巴萨姆·扎尔卡(Bassam Al-Zarqa)表示，该党可以利用其独特的定位帮助弥合政治分歧达成新的和解。“我们是两个极端之间唯一的政党，也是唯一不玩零和博弈的政党，”他说，“只有我们从一开始就认为那是一种战略错误。”