LOS ANGELES — There would be a celebration for Kobe Bryant on Wednesday. Everybody knew that much. The signs were everywhere. Look outside: a block party. Look courtside: gift bags for all. Look up: purple and yellow balloons suspended from the rafters of Staples Center.
洛杉矶——科比·布莱恩特(Kobe Bryant)的庆祝会在周三举办。每个人都深知这一点。标志四处可见。场外是街头派对，场边是为所有人准备的礼品袋。抬起头：斯台普斯中心(Staples Center)的椽柱上挂着紫色和黄色的气球。
Before the Lakers had ever won a title in Los Angeles, they bunched balloons atop the Forum for Game 7 of the finals with the Boston Celtics in 1969, anticipating a party that never came. That day ended in despair and embarrassment. Once upon a time, the Lakers could never win the big one.
在湖人队首次于洛杉矶赢得冠军以前，这些人也曾在1969年对阵波士顿凯尔特人的总决赛第七场中，在论坛体育馆(the Forum)的屋顶上绑上气球，想象一场最终并没有到来的派对。那一天最后在绝望与尴尬中结束。曾经，湖人队似乎永远都无法赢得冠军。
Now, they rarely win at all. This was the worst season in the history of their proud franchise. But for 20 years here, Bryant was a callback to the glory days. He helped hang five banners high on the wall of Staples Center. Those banners were the backdrop on Wednesday for the final point of his career: a free throw for his 60th of the night, a number no one else reached in the N.B.A. this season.
现在，他们连比赛也很少赢了。今年是他们引以为豪的球队史上的最差赛季。但是对于过去在这里的20年，科比是一通对昔日荣光的回电。在斯台普斯中心的墙壁上悬挂的五面冠军锦旗，有他的一份功劳。这些锦旗在周三成为他职业生涯终点的背幕：随着罚球命中，科比得到了今晚个人的第60分，这个分数在今年NBA赛季中还无人达到。
So when the balloons fell and the corner cannons blasted confetti, the celebration was more than a salute for past greatness. The Lakers’ 101-96 victory over the Utah Jazz became an outpouring of joy for a singular sensation, for the rare and chilling moment when a once-great athlete digs deep for that old magic, and finds it.
所以，当气球降落，角落中的礼炮喷出五彩纸屑，这场庆祝会不仅仅是对过去辉煌的一场致敬。湖人以101比96击败犹他爵士的比赛成为倾泻喜悦的出口，这种喜悦源于一场非凡的轰动事件，源于一个珍贵而难忘的时刻：一位曾经伟大的球员，为了找到原先的魔法而努力，他最终找到了。
“The coolest thing is that my kids actually saw me play like I used to play,” Bryant said. “It was like, ‘Whoa, Dad!’ I said, ‘Yeah, I used to do that.’ They were like, ‘Really?’ I was like, ‘Dude, YouTube it.’ ”
“最酷的是孩子真的看到了我像过去一样比赛，”科比说。“像是，‘哇，老爸！’我会说，‘是的，我曾经就是那样的。’他们会问，‘真的吗？’我会回答，‘伙计，上YouTube看吧。 ’”
This was history unfolding in real time. Bryant, the third-leading scorer in N.B.A. history, behind Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Karl Malone, had his first 60-point game since one in 2009 at Madison Square Garden against the Knicks. He played 1,346 regular-season games, and this was just his sixth with 60 points.
历史在现实的世界中展开。科比，NBA历史上总得分第三的球员，仅次于卡里姆·阿卜杜勒-贾巴尔(Kareem Abdul-Jabbar)和卡尔·马龙(Karl Malone)，自2009年在麦迪逊广场花园对阵尼克斯后，又一次单场斩获60分。他累计参加了1346场常规赛，这是他第六次单场拿下60分。
Jack Nicholson loved it. So did Jay Z and Snoop Dogg, Kanye West and Adam Levine, Frank Robinson and Dave Winfield. They were all there, and dozens of scoreboard tributes played above Bryant’s head all game long. Magic Johnson, Bryant’s childhood hero, told the crowd that Bryant was the greatest Laker ever.
杰克·尼克尔森(Jack Nicholson)称赞，还有Jay Z、史努比狗狗、坎耶·韦斯特、亚当·莱文(Adam Levine)、弗兰克·罗宾逊(Frank Robinson)和达沃·温菲尔德(Dave Winfield)。他们当晚都在现场，来自计分板处的致敬整场比赛都在科比的上方进行。“魔术师”约翰逊，这位科比儿时的英雄告诉大家，科比是有史以来最伟大的“湖人”。
“It’s surreal,” Bryant said. “It’s almost like you’re in a fog. Everything is moving extremely slow but extremely fast. You’re trying to take it all in. You’re not quite sure where to look.”
“这是一种超现实的感觉，”科比说。“简直就像你处在大雾中。一切事物都移动得特别慢但又特别快。你全神贯注地去听，但你并不确定该向哪里看。”
He looked where he always has: the basket. Bryant played to type, like a man with so many more points to score and so little time to do it. His final performance would not be a dud, the way so many are. Michael Jordan scored 15 points in his final game as a Washington Wizard. Charles Barkley scored 2 as a Houston Rocket. Shaquille O’Neal — Bryant’s onetime teammate and foil, who hugged him courtside as the last seconds ticked away — scored none as a Celtic.
他朝着一直以来习惯的方向看去：篮筐。他像“科比”一样打球，一个要在很少的时间里得到高分的人。他最后的谢幕表演将不会像很多人那样悄无声息。身披华盛顿奇才队战袍的迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)，在他的谢幕战中总共得到了15分。查尔斯·巴克利(Charles Barkley)作为休斯顿火箭队球员得到2分。科比曾经的队友与对手——沙奎尔·奥尼尔(Shaquille O’Neal)，当比赛结束时在场边拥抱了他，而奥尼尔作为凯尔特人的球员在最后一场比赛中一分未得。
To score his 60, Bryant made 22 of 50 shots, including 6 of 21 from 3-point range and 10 of 12 from the foul line. Before Wednesday, no player in at least three decades had taken 50 shots in a game. Even when he scored 81 points, in 2006, Bryant needed only 46 shots from the field. This game was like something from the days of Wilt Chamberlain, who took 63 shots in his 100-point game in 1962.
为了得到60分，科比总共出手50次命中22球，包括21投6中的三分球和在罚球线上的12罚10中。在周三前，还没有一个球员在过去的至少三十年内，曾在一场比赛中出手了50次。即便是科比在2006年得到81分的夜晚，他也总共只出手了46次。这像一场来自威尔特·张伯伦(Wilt Chamberlain)时期的比赛，张伯伦曾经在1962年出手63次得到了100分。
Bryant’s teammates spoke of him on Wednesday with reverence. Asked about Bryant’s legacy, Metta World Peace emphasized that basketball was “just a small piece” of it, without elaborating much. Roy Hibbert presented Bryant as some form of supreme being.
科比的队友们在周三提起他时充满了敬意。当被问到科比为后来人所留下的财富时，慈世平（Metta World Peace，曾用名Ron Artest[罗恩·阿泰斯特]——译注）强调，篮球“只是其中的很少的一部分”，并没有解释太多。罗伊·希伯特(Roy Hibbert)则将科比的存在描述成“超人”的某种形式。
“Kobe transcends reality — he transcends dimensions, all realms of life, past and present,” Hibbert said, laughing at the absurdity of it all. “He’s one of a kind. He is what we strive to be, on and off the court. The talent, competitiveness, the drive, the fuel, the energy, everything.”
“科比超越了现实——他超越了维度，超越了生命的所有领域，包括过去与未来，”希伯特说，他嘲笑了那些荒谬的言论，“科比是独一无二的。无论是在场上还是场下，他都是我们一直努力想要成为的目标。他的天赋、竞争性、动力、能量，他的所有。”