PARIS — Broken gargoyles and fallen balustrades replaced by plastic pipes and wooden planks. Flying buttresses darkened by pollution and eroded by rainwater. Pinnacles propped up by beams and held together with straps.
巴黎——残破的滴水嘴兽和掉落的栏杆柱被塑料管和木板替代。飞扶壁因污染变暗，受雨水腐蚀。小尖塔要靠梁支撑，并用绑带做了固定。Little of that deterioration is immediately visible to the millions of awe-struck tourists who visit the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris every year, many of them too busy admiring the intricately sculpted front to notice the wear and tear.
对于每年前往巴黎圣母院那几百万瞠目结舌的游客来说，这些颓丧的迹象并不明显，很多人忙着赞叹精雕细琢的外表，没有注意它的破损与斑驳。But on a recent afternoon, André Finot, the cathedral’s spokesman, pointed out the decay. One patch of limestone crumbled at a finger’s touch.
但是近日的一个下午，教堂发言人安德烈·菲诺(André Finot)介绍了建筑的破损情况。指尖轻轻一点，一块石灰岩就破了。
“Everywhere the stone is eroded, and the more the wind blows, the more all of these little pieces keep falling,” said Finot, gingerly stepping over fallen chunks of stone on the cathedral’s rooftop walkway. “It’s spinning out of control everywhere.”
“被腐蚀的石材随处可见，风不断吹，这些零碎的东西不断往下掉，”在教堂屋顶的走道上，菲诺小心翼翼地跨过散落在地上的石块。“整个地方完全失控了。”
This is not the first time — nor will it be the last — that the cathedral, a jewel of medieval Gothic architecture, has required an extensive makeover. But experts say Notre Dame, although not at risk of sudden collapse, has reached a tipping point — and an expensive one at that.
这不是这座中世纪哥特建筑瑰宝第一次需要大规模整修——也不会是最后一次。但是专家称，虽然尚不面临坍塌的危险，但圣母院已经到了一个临界点——一个昂贵的临界点。
To foot the bill — an estimated 150 million euros, or nearly $180 million — they are hoping to capitalize not only on the architectural patriotism of the French, but also on the francophilia of U.S. donors.
整修费用预计达1.5亿欧元（约合人民币11.8亿元），为了筹到这笔钱，他们需要寄望于法国人对建筑寄托的爱国情怀，同时还需要打那些崇尚法国的美国捐助者的主意。
“There is a real need for urgent restoration work,” said Michel Picaud, who heads the newly created Friends of Notre-Dame de Paris foundation, which aims to raise money in the United States.
“现在迫切需要展开紧急修缮工作，”米歇尔·皮考(Michel Picaud)说，他是新成立的巴黎圣母院之友基金会(Friends of Notre-Dame de Paris foundation)的负责人，该组织将负责在美国筹款。
Notre Dame de Paris, which sits at the heart of the capital, is on many people’s to-do lists, including the likes of Melania Trump and Beyoncé. It is part of a “sentimental bond” between France and the United States, one forged through wartime alliances, common values and a reciprocal fascination for each other’s culture, Picaud argued.
位于法国首都中心的巴黎圣母院，被许多人认为是一辈子需要去一趟的地方，这其中包括了梅拉尼娅·特朗普和碧昂丝这样的人物。皮库说，它是法国和美国之间的一种“情感纽带”，这种关系是在战时同盟、共同价值观和对彼此文化的惺惺相惜中得来的。
Built in the 12th and 13th centuries, Notre Dame received one of its most significant overhauls between 1844 and 1864, when the architects Jean-Baptiste-Antoine Lassus and Eugène Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc redid the spire and the flying buttresses and added several architectural tweaks.
圣母院始建于12、13世纪，在1844到1864年间进行了最彻底的一次整修，当时建筑师让-巴蒂斯特-安托万·拉索斯(Jean-Baptiste-Antoine Lassus)和欧仁·维奥莱-勒-杜克(Eugène Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc)重修了尖顶和飞扶壁，做了一些建筑细节修改。
That restoration followed decades of neglect and partial damage at the hands of French revolutionaries, and was prompted in part by Victor Hugo’s publication of his 1831 novel “Notre-Dame of Paris,” which shone a light on the building’s decrepit state.
那次整修之前的几十年，此地疏于管理，且在法国大革命中遭到部分损毁，维克多·雨果的1831年小说《巴黎圣母院》给它带来了一些关注，其中就提到了建筑的破败状况。
“Assuredly, the Cathedral of Notre-Dame at Paris is, to this day, a majestic and sublime edifice,” Hugo wrote in the novel. “But noble as it has remained while growing old, one cannot but regret, cannot but feel indignant at the innumerable degradations and mutilations inflicted on the venerable pile, both by the action of time and the hand of man.”
“巴黎圣母院这座教堂如今依旧是庄严宏伟的建筑，”雨果在书中写道。“它虽然日渐老去，却依旧是非常美丽。但是人们仍然不免愤慨和感叹，看到时间和人使那可敬的纪念性建筑遭受了无数损伤和破坏。”（译文摘自陈敬容译《巴黎圣母院》，人民出版社2002年版《雨果文集》第一卷。——译注）
The words ring true today. “Here we are 150 years or so after he wrote that, the call to arms for the Notre Dame of 150 years ago, and it works again now,” said Andrew Tallon, an associate professor of architecture and art history at Vassar College.
这也符合今天的景象。“150年前他写下那番话，呼吁人们为当时的圣母院而战；如今这再次成了对现实的描述，”瓦萨学院(Vassar College)建筑与艺术史副教授安德鲁·塔隆(Andrew Tallon)说。
Notre Dame, he said, now faces a “very exciting — if not scary — situation, where it needs all its help.”
他说圣母院现在处于一个“令人极度激动——甚至恐慌——的状况，急需得到帮助”。