The police in northern India have filed sedition charges against 67 Kashmiri students after some of them cheered for the Pakistani cricket team during a televised match with India on Sunday night.
印度北部的警察对67名克什米尔学生提起了煽动罪的指控，原因是他们周日夜间在电视上观看巴基斯坦对印度的板球比赛时，在为巴基斯坦板球队欢呼。
The charges were filed Tuesday following an official complaint against the students by Manzoor Ahmed, vice chancellor of Swami Vivekanand Subharti University in Meerut, according to M. M. Baig, a Meerut police official. In addition to sedition charges, the students were charged with “instigating hate between two communities.”
密鲁特的一名警官M·M·拜格(M. M. Baig)说，周二，在当地的斯瓦米·维韦卡南德·苏布哈蒂大学(Swami Vivekanand Subharti University)副校长曼苏尔·艾哈迈德(Manzoor Ahmed)正式上报了这些学生的行为之后，警方提出了相关指控。除了面临煽动指控外，学生们还被控“挑拨两个群体间的仇恨”。
Omar Abdullah, the chief minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, wrote in several posts on Twitter that the sedition charges against the students were an overreaction.
查谟-克什米尔邦首席部长奥马尔·阿卜杜拉(Omar Abdullah)多次在Twitter上表示，指控学生们煽动其实是反应过激。
“I believe what the students did was wrong & misguided but they certainly didn’t deserve to have charges of sedition slapped against them,” Mr. Abdullah wrote.
阿卜杜拉写道，“我认为学生们的行为是不正确、不恰当的，但是他们绝对不应该被指控煽动罪名。”
He said he had spoken to his counterpart in Uttar Pradesh State, where Meerut is located, “who has assured me he will personally look into the matter of the Kashmiri students in Meerut.”
他说，他已经与密鲁特所在的北方邦的首席部长谈过话，“他向我保证，他会亲自调查密鲁特克什米尔学生的相关事宜。”
Indian news media reported that a delegation of leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party, a right-of-center Hindu nationalist group that polls suggest will soon dominate India’s central government, met Mr. Ahmed and demanded stern action against the students. A group of students associated with the Hindu party also burned an effigy of Mr. Ahmed, local news media reported. Mr. Ahmed said in an interview on Wednesday that he was aware of the effigy burning.
据印度新闻媒体报道，印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的高层代表团已经与艾哈迈德会面，并要求对学生采取严厉行动。印度人民党是一个中右翼的印度教民族主义党派，民调显示，该党很快就会在印度中央政府占据领导地位。当地媒体报道，与这个印度教党派有联系的一群学生还焚烧了一个艾哈迈德的人偶。艾哈迈德在周三的采访中说，他知道焚烧人偶的事件。
The Kashmiri students were suspended indefinitely from the university and removed from their dorms. To return, they will have to appeal their suspensions.
这些克什米尔学生在该校已被无限期停学，而且已被驱逐出学生宿舍。要想返回学校，他们就必须对责令停学的决定提出上诉。
Cricket is a national obsession in India. Some Kashmiris root against the Indian team because of resentment from decades of national policies there, including routine arrests of pro-independence figures and thousands of disappearances.
板球运动在印度很受欢迎。一些克什米尔人对印度队持反感态度，主要原因是人们对印度数十年来在那里实施的政策感到憎恶，如支持独立的人士时常被捕，而且还有数千人失踪。
India and Pakistan, once part of the same country, violently divided in 1947 and have since fought three wars, two of them over Kashmir, a region divided between the two countries. Pakistan has been the source of repeated terrorist attacks in India, including one in Mumbai in 2008 that killed more than 160 people.
印度和巴基斯坦原本属于同一个国家，1947年，两国在暴力冲突后分裂，之后两国间爆发了三次战争，其中两次与两国分治的克什米尔有关。巴基斯坦一直是印度频繁发生的恐怖袭击的来源国，其中包括2008年孟买遇袭事件，当时共有160多人丧生。