FOR most of her career, Hillary Clinton suffered for being a feminist.
在事业生涯中大多数时候，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)都因其女权主义者的身份而遭受非议。
Retaining her last name helped cost her husband the governorship of Arkansas in 1980 (after that, she became a Clinton). She was mocked in 1992 for saying she wouldn’t be “some little woman standing by my man,” and for asserting, “I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies and had teas, but what I decided to do was to fulfill my profession.”
在1980年，她拒绝改用夫姓，导致丈夫失去了阿肯色州州长的职位。（此后她便改姓克林顿。）在1992年，她受到嘲弄，因为她说自己不会做“丈夫身旁的小女人”，并且断言，“我想我本可以选择待在家里，烤烤饼干、喝喝茶，但我还是决定追求职业发展。”
(Outrage at her “bitchiness” — a standard put-down of a strong woman — was such that Clinton tried to mollify critics by participating in a bake-off sponsored by Family Circle magazine. That must have stung. But hold on: Clinton’s recipe for oatmeal chocolate chip cookies then triumphed over Barbara Bush’s cookie recipe, upholding the honor of career moms everywhere.)
（她的“恶毒刻薄”激起了公愤——这是对坚强女性的标准侮辱。民情汹涌到了一定程度，以至于希拉里试图通过参加由《家庭生活圈》[Familiy Circle]杂志主办的烘焙比赛来缓和外界批评。那一定刺痛了她。但是且慢：希拉里的燕麦巧克力饼干食谱当时胜过了芭芭拉·布什[Barara Bush]的饼干食谱，维护了各地在职母亲的荣誉。）
Even when Hillary Clinton ran for president in 2008, there were put-downs, like the two men from a radio show heckling her, “Iron my shirt!”
即使在2008年希拉里·克林顿竞选总统时，也有这种贬低侮辱，像是在某个电台节目中就有两名男子冲她起哄道，“帮我烫衬衫！”
So it’s a measure of how much the country has changed that these days Clinton is running as a feminist, after decades of skirting the issue. In 2008 she barely mentioned her gender; now it’s a refrain. “This really comes down to whether I can encourage and mobilize women to vote for the first woman president,” Time quoted her as saying. She even said she’d be open to choosing a woman as her running mate (go, Amy Klobuchar!).
这个国家已是作出了相当大的改变，因此，在几十年来避开问题后，近日希拉里正作为一个女权主义者参与竞选。在2008年，她很少提及自己的性别；现在，性别是她每每提及的说辞。“归根结底，这真的就在于我能不能鼓励并动员女性，去投票选出第一位女总统，”《时代》(Time)杂志引述了她的话。她甚至说自己不介意选一名女性为竞选搭档（去吧，艾米·科罗布查尔[Amy Klobuchar]！）
When a Gallup survey first asked Americans if they were willing to vote for a woman for president, in 1937, only one-third said they were. By last year, 92 percent were willing to do so.
在1937年，盖洛普(Gallup)调查首次问美国人愿不愿意选一名女性为总统，当时只有三分之一的人说愿意。到了去年，92%的人都愿意这样做。
Another Gallup survey found that what people liked most about a Clinton candidacy was her gender. Her chromosomes are, at least for Democrats, her biggest selling point.
另一个盖洛普调查发现，关于希拉里的候选人身份，人们最喜欢的是她的性别。至少在民主党支持者眼中，她的染色体是其最大的卖点。
Conversely, maybe it’s also a sign of progress that young women aren’t particularly inclined to support Clinton: They’re less likely to see their space defined by glass ceilings.
相反，年轻女性没有特别倾向于支持希拉里，这也许是进步的迹象：她们较少遇到无形的障碍，限制其发展空间。
Already women are reshaping the public debate in healthy ways. To me, one sign came when President Obama suggested recently that there should not be a tax on tampons.
女性已经在以良好的方式重塑公众舆论。对我来说，当奥巴马总统最近提出卫生棉条不应征税时，一个信号就此出现了。
Some 40 states tax tampons and other menstrual products as if they were not necessities. In the last couple of years, women have led a campaign to change that, and a (female, of course) interviewer asked Obama about this.
大约有40个州对卫生棉条及其他月经产品收税 ，好像它们不是生活必需品。在过去几年中，妇女展开了一项运动以改变这种状况。一名采访者（当然是女的）也就此事向奥巴马提问。
“I confess I was not aware of it until you brought it to my attention,” Obama acknowledged. “I have to tell you, I have no idea why states would tax these as luxury items. I suspect it’s because men were making the laws when those taxes were passed.”
“如果不是你引起我的注意，我就不会意识到这一点，”奥巴马承认。 “告诉你，我不知道为什么国家将这些产品当作奢侈品收税。我怀疑这是因为收这些税费的法律都是男人通过的。”
When a woman is grilling the president about his policy on tampons, that’s a sign that women are increasingly a part of the conversation. I hope that women will push for a more robust discussion of domestic violence, human trafficking, reproductive health care, equal pay and women’s rights worldwide, issues that never received the attention they deserved when we men monopolized the stage.
当一个女人盘问总统关于卫生棉条政策时，这是一个信号，表明妇女越来越多地参与对话。我希望妇女将在全球更热烈地推动人们讨论以下议题：家庭暴力、人口拐卖、生殖保健、同工同酬和妇女权利。这些问题在我们男人垄断舞台时从来没有得到应有的注意。
Female leaders are often less focused on women’s rights than one might think, but that’s not true of Clinton. When she was traveling as secretary of state, she highlighted these issues by visiting sex-trafficking survivors in India and meeting an activist against child marriage in Yemen. Clinton argued tirelessly that empowering women undermined extremist groups.
女性领导人往往比人们想象的较少关注妇女权利，但对希拉里而言却不然。在任国务卿出访时，她会通过在印度拜访性贩运幸存者和在也门会见反对童婚的积极分子来强调这些问题。希拉里不知疲倦地强调，赋予妇女权力将削弱极端主义团体。
We may also be seeing a backlash against the backlash against strong women. When Donald Trump seemed to suggest that Megyn Kelly of Fox News asked tough questions because she was menstruating, or that Carly Fiorina was unsuitable for president because of her looks (“Look at that face! Would anyone vote for that?”), the public laughed at him more than with him.
我们也可以看到人们反对针对女强人的打压。当唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)指出福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)的梅根·凯利(Megyn Kelly)之所以会提出尖锐问题是因为她来月经时，或者卡莉·菲奥莉娜(Carly Fiorina)因为她的容貌而不适合当总统（“看那张脸！谁会投票给她？”）时，大众更多是笑他而不是笑他嘲讽的对象。
Trump’s disgust for female bodily functions — he has also referred to women urinating or pumping their milk as “disgusting” — also seems very 1970s, and these days what’s yucky is no longer bodily functions but rather Trump’s discomfort with them.
特朗普厌恶女性的身体机能——他也提到妇女小便或喂人奶为“恶心” ，这让人有种身处70年代的感觉，现在令人不快的不再是身体机能，而是特朗普对它们的厌恶。
When Republican “mad men” make sexist comments — Trump using a vulgarism about Clinton’s 2008 loss to Obama or Ted Cruz saying Clinton needed a spanking — the Clinton campaign barely conceals its delight as it sounds the trumpets.
当共和党“狂人”作出性别歧视评论——特朗普使用粗话提及希拉里2008年输给奥巴马或特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)，说希拉里需要被打屁股——希拉里竞选团队毫不掩盖喜悦之情，因为胜利的号角已响起。
“We are not responding to Trump,” an aide, Jennifer Palmieri, tweeted triumphantly, “but everyone who understands the humiliation this degrading language inflicts on all women should.”
“我们不会回应特朗普，”助手珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)在Twitter上凯旋般写道，“但大家明白这侮辱性的语言对所有女性造成了伤害。”
One way in which attitudes have changed has to do with sexual predation. Shaming women who make accusations — in short, the Bill Clinton campaign approach of 1992 — is much less tolerated today.
观念改变的一个体现是对性掠夺的看法。今天，人们不太能容忍对做出指控的妇女的羞辱——简而言之，1992年比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的竞选时的做法。
So today Hillary Clinton is scolded for turning on and helping to stigmatize the women who accused her husband of misconduct, which oddly means that she may pay more of a price for his misbehavior than he ever did. That irony would encapsulate the truism that whatever the progress, women are often still held to a higher standard than men.
现在，希拉里·克林顿被骂，原因是她当年帮助攻击和抹黑了指责她丈夫不当行为的女性，这出奇地意味着她可能会比比尔·克林顿为其不当行为付出更多的代价。这个富有讽刺意味的情况简洁明了地印证了那个道理：无论如何进步，对女性的要求往往比男性更高。