Curing insomnia in people with depression could double their chance of a full recovery, scientists are reporting. The findings, based on an insomnia treatment that uses talk therapy rather than drugs, are the first to emerge from a series of closely watched studies of sleep and depression to be released in the coming year.
科学家们表示，抑郁症患者的失眠问题如果能够治愈，他们全面康复的机会可能会提高一倍。这项发现是基于一项通过谈话，而不是依赖药物来治疗失眠的疗法得出的。它也是睡眠和抑郁症领域里，一系列受到密切关注的研究中得出的第一项发现，这些研究结果将于明年发表。
The new report affirms the results of a smaller pilot study, giving scientists confidence that the effects of the insomnia treatment are real. If the figures continue to hold up, the advance will be the most significant in the treatment of depression since the introduction of Prozac in 1987.
这份新报告肯定了之前一项较小规模的前导性研究的结果，给科学家带来了信心：治疗失眠确能产生效果。如果相关数字不被推翻，这将是1987年百忧解(Prozac)问世以来，在治疗抑郁症方面取得的最大进展。
Depression is the most common mental disorder, affecting some 18 million Americans in any given year, according to government figures, and more than half of them also have insomnia.
抑郁症是最常见的精神障碍，政府的统计数字显示，美国每年都有约1800万患者，其中一半以上伴有失眠症状。
Experts familiar with the new report said that the results were plausible and that if supported by other studies, they should lead to major changes in treatment.
了解这份新报告的专家说，其研究结果是可信的，如果得到了其他研究的支持，抑郁症治疗方式将会出现重大转变。
“It would be an absolute boon to the field,” said Dr. Nada L. Stotland, professor of psychiatry at Rush Medical College in Chicago, who was not connected with the latest research.
芝加哥拉什医学院(Rush Medical College)的精神病学教授，纳达·L·斯特兰博士(Nada L. Stotland)说，“对于这个领域来说，这绝对是一个好消息。”他没有参与这一系列最新的研究。
“It makes good common sense clinically,” she continued. “If you have a depression, you’re often awake all night, it’s extremely lonely, it’s dark, you’re aware every moment that the world around you is sleeping, every concern you have is magnified.”
“从临床上说，这很合情理，”她接着说。“如果你有抑郁症，你常常会彻夜难眠，非常孤独，身处黑暗之中。每时每刻你都知道周围的世界正在沉睡，于是你所有的担心都会被放大。”
The study is the first of four on sleep and depression nearing completion, all financed by the National Institute of Mental Health. They are evaluating a type of talk therapy for insomnia that is cheap, relatively brief and usually effective, but not currently a part of standard treatment.
该研究是四项即将完成的睡眠和抑郁症研究之一。这些研究都是由美国国家心理健康研究院(National Institute of Mental Health)资助的，旨在评估一种治疗失眠的谈话疗法。该疗法价格低廉，相对简便，通常行之有效，但目前不是标准治疗程序的一部分。
The new report, from a team at Ryerson University in Toronto, found that 87 percent of patients who resolved their insomnia in four biweekly talk therapy sessions also saw their depression symptoms dissolve after eight weeks of treatment, either with an antidepressant drug or a placebo pill — almost twice the rate of those who could not shake their insomnia. Those numbers are in line with a previous pilot study of insomnia treatment at Stanford.
这份新的报告来自多伦多怀雅逊大学(Ryerson University)的一个研究小组。他们发现，无论是服用抗抑郁药物，还是安慰剂药片患者，在每两周一个谈话疗程，八周四个疗程之后，87%不再失眠的患者抑郁症症状也消除了——与没有解决失眠问题的患者相比，比例高出了近一倍。这些数字与斯坦福大学(Stanford)先前进行对失眠治疗所做一项前导性研究的结果一致。
In an interview, the report’s lead author, Colleen E. Carney, said, “The way this story is unfolding, I think we need to start augmenting standard depression treatment with therapy focused on insomnia.”
在接受采访时，该报告的第一作者科琳·E·卡尼(Colleen E. Carney)说：“我认为，从研究的进展来看，我们应该开始增加针对失眠的治疗措施，从而增强常规的抑郁症治疗的效果。”
Dr. Carney acknowledged that the study was small — just 66 patients — and said a clearer picture should emerge as the other teams of scientists released their results. Those studies are being done at Stanford, Duke and the University of Pittsburgh and include about 70 subjects each. Dr. Carney will present her data on Saturday at a convention of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies, in Nashville.
卡尼承认，这项研究规模很小，仅有66名患者。但她表示，随着其他科学家团队发布研究结果，就能显现出更清晰的图片。这些研究正在斯坦福大学、杜克大学(Duke)和匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)进行，每项研究都有70名研究对象。本周六，行为和认知疗法协会(Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies)将在纳什维尔召开一次会议，卡尼将在会上介绍自己的数据。
Doctors have long considered poor sleep to be a symptom of depression that would clear up with treatments, said Rachel Manber, a professor in the psychiatry and behavioral sciences department at Stanford, whose 2008 pilot trial of insomnia therapy provided the rationale for larger studies. “But we now know that’s not the case,” she said. “The relationship is bidirectional — that insomnia can precede the depression.”
医生们长期以来都认为睡眠不好是抑郁症的一个症状，可以通过治疗解决，斯坦福大学精神病学和行为科学系教授雷切尔·曼伯(Rachel Manber)说，她在2008年对失眠治疗的初步尝试，为更大规模的研究提供了依据。“但我们现在知道，情况并非如此，”她说。“这种关系是双向的，失眠可能先于抑郁症。”
Full-blown insomnia is more serious than the sleep problems most people occasionally have. To qualify for a diagnosis, people must have endured at least a month of chronic sleep loss that has caused problems at work, at home or in important relationships. Several studies now suggest that developing insomnia doubles a person’s risk of later becoming depressed — the sleep problem preceding the mood disorder, rather than the other way around.
真正的失眠症，比大多数人偶尔出现的睡眠问题更加严重。患者必须要至少持续一个月长期出现睡眠问题，而且在工作、家庭或重要关系中造成了问题，才能诊断为失眠症。当前的几项研究显示，患上失眠之后，人们罹患抑郁症的风险会提高一倍——睡眠问题先于情绪障碍，而不是相反。
The therapy that Dr. Manber, Dr. Carney and the other researchers are using is called cognitive behavior therapy for insomnia, or CBT-I for short. The therapist teaches people to establish a regular wake-up time and stick to it; get out of bed during waking periods; avoid eating, reading, watching TV or similar activities in bed; and eliminate daytime napping.
曼伯、卡尼和其他研究人员正在使用的疗法名为“针对失眠的认知行为疗法”，简称CBT-I。治疗师会指导人们建立规律的起床时间，并坚持下去；在醒着的时候不要待在床上；避免在床上进食、看书、看电视，诸如此类；取消白天的小睡。
The aim is to reserve time in bed for only sleeping and — at least as important — to “curb this idea that sleeping requires effort, that it’s something you have to fix,” Dr. Carney said. “That’s when people get in trouble, when they begin to think they have to do something to get to sleep.”
这样做的目的是，你在床上的时间只用来睡觉，至少同样重要的是，“要抑制‘睡觉需要努力’的想法，不要认为它是一件需要你解决的事情，”卡尼说。“当人们觉得必须做些什么事好让自己入睡的时候，往往就会出问题的时候。”
This kind of therapy is distinct from what is commonly known as sleep hygiene: exercising regularly, but not too close to bedtime, and avoiding coffee and too much alcohol in the evening. These healthful habits do not amount to an effective treatment for insomnia.
这种疗法有别于一般所说的“睡眠卫生”：有规律地锻炼，但不要太靠近就寝时间，晚上避免喝咖啡，避免喝太多酒。对失眠症来说，这些健康生活习惯称不上有效的治疗手段。
In her 2008 pilot study testing CBT-I in people with depression, Dr. Manber of Stanford used sleep hygiene as part of her control treatment. She found that 60 percent of patients who received seven sessions of the talk therapy and an antidepressant fully recovered from their depression, compared with 33 percent who got the same drug and the sleep hygiene therapy.
斯坦福大学的曼伯在2008年对抑郁症患者进行CBT-I前导性研究时，也对对照组进行了睡眠卫生治疗。她发现，有60%的患者在接受了七个谈话疗程，并服用一种抗抑郁药后，抑郁症完全康复，而服用相同药物但接受睡眠卫生治疗的患者中，这个比例只有33%。
Dr. Andrew Krystal, who is running the CBT-I study at Duke, called sleep “this huge, still unexplored frontier of psychiatry.”
杜克大学负责CBT-I研究的安德鲁·克里斯托(Andrew Krystal)说，睡眠是“精神病学中尚未开发的广阔前沿”。
“The body has complex circadian cycles, and mostly in psychiatry we’ve ignored them,” he said. “Our treatments are driven by convenience. We treat during the day and make little effort to find out what’s happening at night.”
“人体有复杂的昼夜节律周期，在精神病学领域，我们大多无视了这些周期，”他说。“之前我们的治疗是怎么方便怎么做。我们治疗白天出现的问题，极少去了解晚上发生的事情。”