Bernie Sanders makes a point of saying that he is not running his campaign for the “millionaires and billionaires,” but an event for his presidential campaign at the Flash Factory on West 28th Street Monday night did cordon off celebrities in a V.I.P. area.
伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)特别强调自己不是为“百万富翁和亿万富翁”竞选，但是周一晚上在西28街Flash Factory举办的一场支持他竞选的活动还是给名人设立了贵宾区。
There was Susan Sarandon (who recently had a noisy clash with the Hillary Clinton supporter Debra Messing on Twitter) wearing an argyle sweater and a hipster cap. Also the Oscar-winning documentarian Fisher Stevens. And Gaby Hoffmann, an actress known for her roles on the TV shows “Transparent” and “Girls.”
苏珊·萨兰登（Susan Sarandon，她前不久刚与希拉里·克林顿[Hillary Clinton]的支持者黛布拉·梅辛[Debra Messing]在Twitter上激烈交锋）穿着菱形图案毛衣，戴着时髦的帽子。还有获得奥斯卡奖的纪录片制作人费希尔·史蒂文斯(Fisher Stevens)以及因电视剧《透明家庭》(Transparent)和《都市女孩》(Girls)而出名的女演员加比·霍夫曼(Gaby Hoffmann)。
Ms. Hoffmann spoke from the stage around 7:30 p.m., talking about mass incarceration, the ills of economic inequality and the threats to the environment posed by climate change. She also invoked brunch, mimosas and shopping as evidence of the country’s deteriorating moral fabric.
晚上7点半左右，霍夫曼上台讲话，谈论大规模监禁、经济不平等的危害以及气候变化对环境的威胁。她还把早午餐、含羞草鸡尾酒和购物作为美国道德体系败坏的证据。
With a little over three months until the Democratic convention in Philadelphia, predominantly liberal Hollywood has yet to reach a consensus on a candidate. Mr. Sanders’s supporters are digging in, even as the industry’s power brokers have mostly lined up behind Mrs. Clinton.
离费城民主党大会还有三个多月的时间，以自由派为主的好莱坞还没有就候选人达成共识。桑德斯的支持者坚持自己的立场，虽然电影业的权力经纪人大多拥护克林顿。
“These lists do not compare to each other in any reasonable way,” said Michael Kives, an agent at CAA who began his career as an intern at Bill Clinton’s Harlem office and has since become something of a broker between Mrs. Clinton’s campaign and the agency’s younger clients.
“这些名单比较起来没有合理性可言，”创新艺人经纪公司(CAA)的经纪人迈克尔·凯夫斯(Michael Kives)说。在事业初期，他曾做过比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)哈莱姆办公室的实习生，后来成为克林顿夫人竞选团队与该公司年轻客户之间的经纪人。
If Mrs. Clinton’s supporters are the equivalent of the Vanity Fair Oscar party, Mr. Sanders’s, perhaps, more suggest the annual bonfire at Burning Man, the festival in the Black Rock Desert in Nevada.
如果说克林顿的支持者相当于《名利场》(Vanity Fair)的奥斯卡派对，那么桑德斯的支持者也许就相当于内华达州布莱克罗克沙漠(Black Rock Desert)火人节(Burning Man)的年度篝火。
Steven Spielberg, the director of big-budget epics, is with Mrs. Clinton. Spike Lee is with Mr. Sanders.
大成本史诗电影导演史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)支持克林顿。斯派克·李(Spike Lee)支持桑德斯。
The preternaturally polished Kendall Jenner is with Mrs. Clinton. The earthier Quentin Tarantino favorite Rosario Dawson is with Mr. Sanders.
超级优雅的肯德尔·詹纳(Kendall Jenner)支持克林顿。朴实的昆汀·塔兰蒂诺(Quentin Tarantino)最喜欢的演员罗萨里奥·道森(Rosario Dawson)支持桑德斯。
Katy Perry, whose music seems almost to have been focus-grouped so as not to alienate any potential demographic, is with Mrs. Clinton. The intentionally-offensive comedian Sarah Silverman is with Mr. Sanders.
凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)支持克林顿。她的音乐几乎针对特定受众，所以不会疏远任何潜在的听众。喜欢故意冒犯别人的喜剧演员萨拉·西尔弗曼(Sarah Silverman)支持桑德斯。
The socialist senator from Vermont has been neck and neck in campaign contributions with the former secretary of state month after month despite having a donor base that mostly gives under $30 a head. Mainstream celebrities have tended to voice their support for Mrs. Clinton.
这位来自佛蒙特州的社会主义参议员每月获得的竞选捐款与前国务卿不相上下，尽管他的大部分捐款者都是捐30美元以下。主流名人大多表达了对克林顿的支持。
Mr. Sanders doesn’t have Anna Wintour, who, with Harvey Weinstein, hosted a cocktail hour in October for Mrs. Clinton at the East Side home of Vera Wang, with attendees who included Martha Stewart and Michael Kors.
去年10月，安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)和哈维·温斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)在王薇薇(Vera Wang)的东区家中为克林顿举办了一场鸡尾酒会，与会者包括玛莎·斯图尔特(Martha Stewart)和迈克尔·科尔斯(Michael Kors)。桑德斯没有安娜·温图尔这样的支持者。
Mr. Sanders doesn’t have Tobey Maguire, who when he isn’t playing cards for ungodly sums of money with Leonardo DiCaprio, is having his poker buddy over for Clinton fund-raisers in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. (But Mr. Sanders does have Mark Ruffalo and Danny DeVito.)
桑德斯也没有托比·马圭尔(Tobey Maguire)这样的支持者。马圭尔如果没在和莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)打扑克豪赌，就把自己的牌友叫到洛杉矶布伦特伍德区为克林顿募捐（不过桑德斯有马克·拉法洛[Mark Ruffalo]和丹尼·德维托[Danny DeVito]）。
Amy Schumer is aboard Team Hillary. So are Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer of “Broad City,” who had Mrs. Clinton on their show last month.
埃米·舒默(Amy Schumer)也加入了希拉里战队。还有《大城小妞》(Broad City)的阿比·雅各布森(Abbi Jacobson)和伊拉娜·格拉泽尔(Ilana Glazer)。上个月，她们请克林顿参演该剧。
In September, Lena Dunham had a friendly chat with Mrs. Clinton that was published in Lenny Letter, Ms. Dunham’s feminist newsletter. In January, Ms. Dunham hit the campaign trail, heading to Iowa, where she donned a red-white-and-blue dress and spoke to potential voters about how Mrs. Clinton’s resilience in the face of public antipathy had inspired her.
去年9月，莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)与克林顿进行了友好交谈，内容公布在杜汉姆的女权主义新闻通讯Lenny Letter上。今年1月，杜汉姆前往艾奥瓦州参加克林顿的竞选游说，捐了一件红白蓝三色连衣裙，并向潜在投票者讲述克林顿面对公众反感时的适应力如何鼓舞了她。
“As a newly grown-up woman who has experienced my fair share of backlash, of public shaming and of puritanical judgments, that really moves me,” Ms. Dunham said.
“我刚成年时也经历过公众的强烈反对、羞辱和刻板批评，她的表现真地打动了我，”杜汉姆说。
The fund-raisers themselves are another point of distinction between the campaigns.
募捐者本身也有明显不同。
Where Mrs. Clinton has luncheons in the Pacific Palisades, with tickets going for $2,700, Mr. Sanders has raucous concerts at trendy downtown Los Angeles hotels, like the Ace, with the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
克林顿在帕西菲克帕利塞兹举办午宴，门票每张2700美元；桑德斯在时髦的洛杉矶市中心酒店举办喧闹的音乐会，比如在Ace酒店请红辣椒乐队(Red Hot Chili Peppers)演唱。
The price of admission: $40.
门票每张40美元。
“That’s what blows my mind,” said Chris Kantrowitz, an app developer in Los Angeles who goes out with Sting’s daughter Mickey Sumner, and helped organize the affair. “I could have landed them $1 million because the show is so epic, and they turned it down so everyone would have a good time.”
“令我震惊的就是那一点，”洛杉矶应用程序开发商克里斯·坎特罗威茨(Chris Kantrowitz)说。他的女友是斯汀(Sting)的女儿米基·萨姆纳(Mickey Sumner)，他帮助组织了这次活动。“我本可以给他们筹集100万美元，因为表演非常经典，但是为了让所有人玩得开心，他们拒绝了。”
The Flash Factory event, meanwhile, was free.
在Flash Factory举办的那场活动是免费的。
Ms. Sarandon again delivered a series of bristling remarks about Mrs. Clinton from the stage.
萨兰登再次登台发表了一系列反对克林顿的愤怒言论。
The audience whooped and hollered in support. At the side of the stage, Ms. Sumner was wearing overalls and a baby-blue Sanders T-shirt.
观众们呼喊着表示支持。萨姆纳站在舞台侧面，穿着工装裤和桑德斯阵营的淡蓝色T恤。
Upon concluding her speech, Ms. Sarandon moved back to the V.I.P. area, where a man in a mandarin-collared Chinese shirt tried to tell her about his attempts to get his mother to vote for Mr. Sanders.
萨兰登演讲完，回到贵宾区，一个身穿中式衬衫的男子想要告诉她自己在努力说服妈妈投票给桑德斯。
“I can’t hear a thing,” Ms. Sarandon said.
“我什么也听不见，”萨兰登说。
Bands were playing cover versions of songs like “Burning Down the House” and “Disco Inferno,” swapping out the original lyrics in favor of Bernie-centered bromides. D.J.s spun a steady stream of club classics, the sort heard not at Studio 54 but the grittier, more knowing Paradise Garage.
乐队在翻唱《烧毁房子》(Burning Down the House)和《迪斯科地狱》(Disco Inferno)等歌曲，把原来的歌词改成颂扬伯尼的陈词滥调。DJ始终在播放俱乐部经典歌曲，不是Studio 54俱乐部的那种，而是Paradise Garage迪斯科舞厅那种更粗糙的歌曲。
Backstage, Winnie Wong, a former organizer of Occupy Wall Street, held court with bands like the Onyx Collective.
在后台，占领华尔街运动(Occupy Wall Street)的前组织者温妮·王(Winnie Wong)在跟Onyx Collective等乐队谈笑取乐。
Ms. Wong, 40, helped organize People for Bernie — she described it as the largest grass-roots organization associated with the Sanders campaign — in February 2015 after leading an unsuccessful campaign to draft Senator Elizabeth Warren for president. She has a bob haircut, a septum piercing and was wearing a floral print coat over a pair of fitted black jeans from Acne.
2015年2月，40岁的王在提议参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)竞选总统失败后，帮助组织了“People for Bernie”，她说这是与桑德斯竞选有关的最大的草根组织。她留着波波头，打着鼻环，穿着印花外套和合身的Acne黑色牛仔裤。
How would her preferred candidate react if he knew his New York emissary had on a pair of $200 jeans?
她最喜欢的候选人如果知道自己的纽约使者穿着200美元的牛仔裤，会作何感想？
“He would think I’m insane,” Ms. Wong said, laughing. “I would make the argument that I won’t need to buy another pair for a very long time. Listen, I’m aware of my class privilege.”
“他会觉得我疯了，”王大笑着说，“我会解释说，我很长一段时间都不需要再买牛仔裤了。听着，我知道自己的阶级特权。”
But wrangling celebrities for Bernie is now part of her job, and it’s not an easy one, even if Ms. Wong’s closest friends happen to be Chloë Sevigny and Natasha Lyonne. Neither has delivered an official endorsement.
但是现在，为伯尼争取名人支持是她工作的一部分，而且并不容易，尽管王的密友碰巧包括克洛伊·塞维尼(Chloë Sevigny)和娜塔莎·雷昂(Natasha Lyonne)。这两位都还没有公开表示支持哪位候选人。
Few celebrities have the power to alter the trajectory of a presidential campaign much, if at all. Still, the mostly warm reception Mrs. Clinton is receiving among the Hollywood set is an interesting contrast to 2008, when a number of West Coasters defected from her list of longtime supporters.
几乎没有哪位名人具有改变总统竞选走向的影响力。不过，克林顿在好莱坞总的来说受到热情接待，这与2008年形成了有趣的对比，当时西海岸的很多人改变了对她的长期支持。
Sounding the gong in January 2007 were Hollywood titans David Geffen (who had helped raise $18 million for President Clinton over the course of two campaigns), Mr. Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg, who after more than 15 years of support for the Clintons, announced they were hosting a February fund-raiser for Mr. Obama. Although Mr. Spielberg ultimately endorsed Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Katzenberg and Mr. Geffen did not.
2007年1月，公开表明态度的好莱坞名人包括大卫·格芬（David Geffen，他曾帮助比尔·克林顿在两次竞选中筹款1800万美元）、斯皮尔伯格和杰弗里·卡曾伯格(Jeffrey Katzenberg)——卡曾伯格在支持克林顿家族超过15年之后，宣布将在当年2月为奥巴马举办一场募捐会。虽然斯皮尔伯格最终表示支持克林顿，但卡曾伯格和格芬没有改变态度。
And in May, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Mr. Obama as well.
当年5月，奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)也表示支持奥巴马。
A week before the Academy Awards in 2008, George Clooney joked that he was going to lose Best Actor to Daniel Day-Lewis because he was the Hillary Clinton of the Oscars.
2008年，在奥斯卡颁奖礼举办前一周，乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)开玩笑说，他会在最佳男演员奖项上输给丹尼尔·戴-刘易斯(Daniel Day-Lewis)，因为他是奥斯卡上的希拉里·克林顿。
“If it weren’t for Barack Obama, it would have been a very good year,” was how he put it, after maxing out for the junior senator from Illinois.
在为伊利诺伊州的这位初级参议员用尽全力之后，他这样说：“如果不是因为巴拉克·奥巴马，那会是很好的一年。”
Yet today, Mr. Clooney and his wife, Amal, are preparing for an April 16 fund-raiser on behalf of the Hillary Victory Fund at their Mediterranean home in the Studio City section of Los Angeles. It costs up to $33,000 a head, and the guest list is expected to be heavily weighted with people who ditched the Clintons in 2008 and have returned in 2016, as if nothing ever went wrong.
不过如今，克鲁尼和妻子阿迈勒正准备于4月16日在洛杉矶Studio City区的地中海风格家中代表希拉里胜利基金会(Hillary Victory Fund)举办一场募捐会。人均成本达3.3万美元，预计嘉宾名单上会有很多人曾在2008年抛弃克林顿，2016年又回心转意，就好像什么都没发生过一样。
One is Andy Spahn, who advises Hollywood titans like Mr. Spielberg on charitable endeavors. Another is Mr. Katzenberg, who, along with Mr. Spielberg, already made a $1 million donation to a “super PAC” for Mrs. Clinton.
其中一位是安迪·施潘(Andy Spahn)，他是斯皮尔伯格等好莱坞大腕的慈善顾问。还有一位是卡曾伯格，他和斯皮尔伯格一起已经向克林顿的超级政治行动委员会(super PAC)捐了100万美元。
Janice Min, the editorial director of The Hollywood Reporter, said she was not surprised to hear that Clinton defectors from 2008 were returning to the fold.
《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)的主编贾妮丝·闵(Janice Min)说，2008年背叛克林顿的人回归她的队伍并没有让她感到意外。
“When it gets down to the brass tacks, people are pragmatic,” she said. “These are people who get audiences to go see ‘Batman v Superman’ even though it’s not any good.”
“在讨论到实质问题时，大家都很实际，”她说。“这些可是让观众去看《蝙蝠侠大战超人》(Batman v Superman)的人，那部电影一点都不好看。”