The face-off Monday night between Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump is, for good reason, among the most highly anticipated presidential debates in American history.
有很好的理由认为，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)与唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)本周一晚上的同台辩论，属于美国历史上最受期待的总统候选人辩论之列。
The spectacle of it alone is alluring: one of the world’s most famous women onstage for 90 commercial-free minutes alongside one of the country’s most recognizable men, in the ultimate convergence of celebrity and politics.
单是这场辩论的场面就很吸引人：世界上最有名的女性之一，与美国最易认出的男性之一，同现台上90分钟，其间不插播广告，这是名人与政治的终极会合。
But with a presidential race that once seemed to be tipping in Mrs. Clinton’s favor growing more competitive as early voting begins, the debate at Hofstra University in New York is far more than a made-for-TV moment.
但是，随着提前投票的开始，曾经似乎倾向于克林顿获胜的总统竞选，正在走向更加势均力敌，所以，这场在纽约霍夫斯特拉大学(Hofstra University)举行的辩论，远不只是专门为电视制作的节目。
Here is what to look for as the candidates try to motivate — or reassure — supporters and win over a small group of undecided voters:
在候选人试图激励支持者、或者打消他们的疑虑，同时赢得一小群尚未拿定主意的选民时，本次辩论有下面几个看点：
With a showman’s flair for generating publicity and a firebrand’s talent for touching the rawest of nerves, Mr. Trump has effectively harnessed the angst of many in the country who are not feeling the effects of the economic upswing, have tired of prolonged wars or have grievances about a changing country.
特朗普有为制造媒体关注而大出风头的才华，还有触及最敏感神经的煽动者的天赋，他已经有效地利用了美国许多人的焦虑，这些人没有感受到经济回暖的影响，厌倦了旷日持久的战争，或对这个不断变化的国家牢骚满腹。
But surveys show that a majority of Americans still believe he is unqualified to be president. If Mr. Trump is to convince those voters who have doubts about his fitness for high office, but are uneasy with Mrs. Clinton, the three debates represent his best opportunity to prove he can be trusted to serve as a head of state. He has to show discipline when it comes to how he engages Mrs. Clinton, challenging her without belittling her, and at least show he is conversant on foreign and domestic policy issues.
但调查显示，大多数美国人仍然认为他没有资格当总统。对特朗普来说，要想说服那些对他担任要职持怀疑态度、但同时对克林顿感到不安的选民，这三场辩论是他最好的机会，让他来证明自己能得到出任国家元首的信任。他需要表现出自制力，在与克林顿辩论时，能挑战她、但不贬低她，并且至少要显示自己熟悉有关外交和国内政策的问题。
Just as Ronald Reagan did in 1980 and George W. Bush did in 2000, Mr. Trump faces a threshold test about whether he is up to the job. But neither Mr. Reagan nor Mr. Bush faced the same level of doubt as Mr. Trump does today. The provocateur must show he can be a president.
正如罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)1980年所做的、以及乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)2000年所做的那样，特朗普面临着一个有关门他是否胜任总统职位的门槛测试。但是，特朗普如今面临的疑虑远远高于当年里根和布什所面临的。这位煽动者必须证明自己有当总统的能力。
It is no stretch to believe that in her internal monologue — and perhaps in intimate conversations — Mrs. Clinton wonders how she could possibly be locked in a competitive contest with a casino executive turned reality TV personality who has never run for office and has no foreign policy experience. But if Mrs. Clinton betrays any such incredulity, she risks bringing what she may think is the unthinkable that much closer to reality.
不难想象，在她的内心独白中——也许在亲密的私下交谈中——克林顿想知道，自己怎么可能会与这样的对手陷入了一场势均力敌的竞争，这名对手曾是赌场高管，后来成为电视真人秀明星，但从来没有竞选过公职，也没有外交政策的经验。但是，如果克林顿对这种怀疑有任何表露的话，她会冒下风险，让她也许认为是不可思议的事情有更大的可能成为现实。
Whether it is with her body language, her tone or her words, Mrs. Clinton cannot appear contemptuous of the voters for considering the star of “The Apprentice” for the office of Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln. Just as Mr. Trump will undermine his prospects if he hurls insults at Mrs. Clinton, she must mask her contempt for him and persuade, not scold, voters. She needs only to ask Al Gore about how effective eye-rolling and sighing are when contending with an opponent you can barely believe is on the same stage.
不管是在肢体语言上，还是自己的语气或措辞上，克林顿都不能对特朗普的支持者表现出轻蔑的态度，虽然这些人认为《学徒》(The Apprentice)的真人秀明星能胜任华盛顿、杰斐逊和林肯担任过的职务。如果特朗普侮辱克林顿，那将会削弱他当选的希望，同样，克林顿也必须掩饰自己蔑视特朗普的态度，对选民进行劝说、而不是责骂。她只需问问艾尔·戈尔(Al Gore)就能知道，在与你难以相信居然会与你同台的对手竞争时，转眼珠和叹气是多么地有用。
If Mrs. Clinton must guard against condescension, Mr. Trump has to worry about being exposed to a global audience as devoid of all but bluster. During the Republican primary race, he benefited from sharing a stage with numerous rivals, each of whom was eager for the airtime during a season in which Mr. Trump thoroughly dominated television news. Since his campaign’s low point this summer, when he was criticized for frequently taking it off script, Mr. Trump has put aside his mockery of politicians who use teleprompters and read from prepared text at even some of his most informal events.
如果说克林顿需要避免傲慢态度的话，特朗普则要小心在全球观众面前把自己暴露为，除了咄咄逼人的架势、什么都没有的人。在共和党的初选阶段，与众多的对手同台角逐让他受益匪浅，在一个特朗普独霸电视新闻的时期，这些对手人人都热切期盼能在电视上露脸。今年夏天，特朗普的竞选活动经历了一个最低点，当时，他由于经常偏离稿子讲话而备受批评，自那以来，特朗普已不再嘲笑那些使用提词机的政客们，而是开始照着事先准备好的文字念稿，就连在自己最非正式的活动中也是这样。
But Mr. Trump now lacks safety in numbers on the stage. And when he looks into the camera Monday evening, there will be no well-chosen words for him to read. He must summon the stamina to engage fully for 90 minutes and the knowledge to answer to a battery of policy questions from both the moderator, Lester Holt of NBC, and Mrs. Clinton. A long silence, a mistaken guess or an angry dismissal all would serve to reinforce one of his biggest vulnerabilities: that he knows next to nothing about substance.
但是，特朗普如今站在台上时，不再有人多势众的安全感。当周一晚上面对摄像头时，他没有精心准备的文字可读。他必须鼓起精神、全力投入到90分钟的辩论中来，靠自己的知识来回答一系列的政策问题，这些问题来自美国全国广播公司(NBC)的主持人莱斯特·霍尔特(Lester Holt)以及克林顿。如果出现长时间的沉默、或做出错误的猜测、或愤怒地拒绝问题，都会增强人们对他一个最大缺点的印象：他对实质性的东西几乎一无所知。
Mrs. Clinton has seen her advantage in the race erode in part because she is having difficulty locking in voters who should otherwise be hers. Just take a look at how many young voters are now indicating in polls that they support one of the third-party candidates or at the hostility the remaining undecided voters have toward Mr. Trump.
克林顿之所以看到自己在竞选中的优势逐渐消弱，部分原因是，她在锁定本该支持自己的选民上遇到了困难。这只要看看下面的事实就很清楚，有多少年轻选民目前在民意调查中表示他们支持第三党的候选人，剩下的尚未拿定主意的选民对特朗普有多大的敌意。
As Mrs. Clinton has conceded, she must appeal to this portion of the electorate with an affirmative case for herself — not only slashing attacks on Mr. Trump. To win them over, she will need a ready answer when the inevitable question comes about her use of a private email server as secretary of state.
正如克林顿已经承认的，她必须要用为什么该选自己的理由来争取这部分选民，而不仅仅是靠攻击特朗普。为了赢得他们的选票，她需要有一个现成的答案，来回答那个不可避免的、有关她担任国务卿期间使用私人电邮服务器的问题。
This moment presents an opportunity for her to not only address the narrow matter of her emails, but to offer an acknowledgment to on-the-fence voters that she has heard their concerns about her trustworthiness. She must show self-awareness about the perceptions of her character and the view that she personifies the detested political class. Mrs. Clinton may be uncomfortable hanging a lantern on her problem, to borrow a Robert Kennedy phrase, but it would signal to reluctant, would-be supporters that she has heard their concerns.
这个时刻也是一个机会，让她不仅回答狭义的电邮问题，也对骑墙的选民作出一种表示，表示听见了他们对自己值得信任的担忧。她必须对人们对自己形象的看法有自知之明，认识到人们把自己看成是令人厌恶的政客阶层的化身。借用罗伯特·肯尼迪(Robert Kennedy)的说法，克林顿可能对给自己的问题打灯笼感到不自在，但这样做会向那些不太情愿、但可能支持自己的选民发出一个信号，让他们知道，她已经听到了他们的担忧。
The two candidates will not be the only ones under the microscope at Hofstra: Mr. Holt is likely to face the sort of scrutiny rarely seen of debate moderators. With his willingness to breezily tell untruths, Mr. Trump presents a unique challenge to all journalists covering the campaign. But having to hold him accountable in real time while millions across the world watch is a burden of a different order of magnitude.
在霍夫斯特拉大学受到密切关注的不仅仅是两位总统候选人，霍尔特可能也面临着辩论主持人很少受到的审视。由于愿意轻而易举地说谎，特朗普对报道竞选的所有记者来说都是一个非常独特的挑战。但是，在世界各地数百万观众面前，实时与特朗普对证的需要，是一个不同数量级的负担。
Mr. Holt cannot waver when Mr. Trump dissembles. But the NBC anchor also must be careful to not become argumentative and let Mr. Trump make him the story, evading the substance at hand. At the same time, Mr. Holt has to aggressively press Mrs. Clinton and scrutinize her record and past statements.
当特朗普试图掩饰什么的时候，霍尔特不能动摇。但这位NBC主播也必须小心，不要让特朗普把辩论主持人变成焦点，从而避开眼前的实质问题。与此同时，霍尔特也需要向克林顿施加压力，审视她的记录和她以前说过的话。
Finding this balance — holding a norm-breaking politician to account while also not seeming to go any easier on his conventional opponent — would be difficult under the best of circumstances. But the pressure on Mr. Holt to control the stage has been heightened by the much-criticized performance from his NBC colleague, Matt Lauer, at a televised candidate forum this month. And there is something else adding to the weight on Mr. Holt: the presidency is on the line.
既要与不守规则的特朗普对证，同时又不要对特朗普的按常规行事的对手表现出任何看似的宽容，找到这种平衡，就是在最好的情况下也很困难。但霍尔特面临的控制场面的压力已经有所增加，因为他NBC的同事马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)本月在一个候选人电视论坛上的表现遭到了很多人的批评。还有一件事情加重了霍尔特所面临的压力：这次辩论事关下届总统由谁来当。