WASHINGTON — CHELSEA CLINTON never acted out during the eight years she came of age as America’s first daughter.
华盛顿——在当美国“第一女儿”的八年期间，切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)从来没有做过出格的事。
No ditching of her Secret Service detail. No fake IDs for underage tippling. No drug scandal. No court appearance in tank top and toe ring. Not even any dirty dancing.
她从来没有甩开过特勤局(Secret Service)的随从。也没有用假证件冒充成年人去酒吧。没有吸毒丑闻。没有穿着小背心、戴着趾环上过法庭。甚至没有跳过一次热舞。
Despite a tough role as the go-between in the highly public and embarrassing marital contretemps of her parents, Chelsea stayed classy.
在她父母的婚姻遭遇尴尬的困境，受到公众普遍关注之时，切尔西的角色十分艰难，然而她还是保持了优雅。
So it’s strange to see her acting out in a sense now, joining her parents in cashing in to help feed the rapacious, gaping maw of Clinton Inc.
所以，看到她在某种意义上举止出格，像她的父母一样，为了填饱“克林顿公司”(Clinton Inc.)那贪得无厌的大胃口而赚取钱财，不免让人感到有些奇怪。
With her 1 percenter mother under fire for disingenuously calling herself “dead broke” when she left the White House, why would Chelsea want to open herself up to criticism that she is gobbling whopping paychecks not commensurate with her skills, experience or role in life?
她那属于“百分之一”富人的母亲在离开白宫时，虚情假意地说自己“彻底破产”了，这番话受到了猛烈抨击。有鉴于此，切尔西为什么还想要招惹批评，让别人说她大肆捞钱，获得的回报与她的技能、经验、角色并不匹配呢？
As the 34-year-old tries to wean some of the cronies from the Clinton Foundation — which is, like the Clintons themselves, well-intended, wasteful and disorganized — Chelsea is making speeches that go into foundation coffers. She is commanding, as The Times’s Amy Chozick reported, up to $75,000 per appearance.
就在34岁的切尔西试图让一些“老友”与克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)——这个基金会像克林顿夫妇自己一样，用意良好、花钱随意、杂乱无章——拉开关系时，她还在通过发表演讲，为基金会筹集资金。正如《纽约时报》的埃米·乔兹克(Amy Chozick)报道的，她每次演讲的出场费要价是7.5万美元（约合47万元人民币）。
Chozick wrote: “Ms. Clinton’s speeches focus on causes like eradicating waterborne diseases. (‘I’m obsessed with diarrhea’ is a favorite line.)”
乔兹克写道：“切尔西主要是就消灭水传播疾病这样的主题发表演讲。（‘我对腹泻问题极感兴趣’是句亮点。）”
There’s something unseemly about it, making one wonder: Why on earth is she worth that much money? Why, given her dabbling in management consulting, hedge-funding and coattail-riding, is an hour of her time valued at an amount that most Americans her age don’t make in a year? (Median household income in the United States is $53,046.)
这种情况似乎有些不妥当，以至于让人想追问：凭什么她的出场费那么高？她试水过管理咨询、对冲资金，父母是政界要人，凭什么她一个小时的收入就比大多数美国同龄人一年赚的都多？（美国家庭收入中位数是53046美元。）
If she really wants to be altruistic, let her contribute the money to some independent charity not designed to burnish the Clinton name as her mother ramps up to return to the White House and as she herself drops a handkerchief about getting into politics.
如果她真的想成为利他主义者，就让她把这些钱捐给独立的慈善机构——当那些机构的目的不是为了在她母亲努力重返白宫时，或者她自己有意试水政坛，给克林顿这个姓氏增光添彩时。
Or let her speak for free. After all, she is in effect going to candidate school. No need to get paid for it, too.
或者让她免费演讲好了。毕竟，这相当于让她练习担任候选人，没有必要为此获得报酬。
There was disgust over Politico’s revelation that before she switched to a month-to-month contract, Chelsea was getting wildly overpaid at $600,000 annually — or over $25,000 per minute on air — for a nepotistic job as a soft-focus correspondent for NBC News.
“政治人”(Politico)网站曝光的一则消息让人们感到厌恶。该消息称，在把合同改为一月一签之前，切尔西的年薪是60万美元——每分钟上镜的报酬超过2.5万美元。对于这样一个通过裙带关系获得的，在NBC新闻中播报花边消息的记者职位来说，实在高得过分，
Chelsea is still learning the answer to a question she asked when she interviewed the Geico gecko: “Is there a downside to all this fame?”
切尔西仍然在寻找一个问题的答案。她采访吉科公司(Geico)的壁虎吉祥物时就曾问过这个问题：“名气这么大，是否也有不利的一面？”
The Clintons keep acting as though all they care about is selfless public service. So why does it keep coming back to gross money grabs? It’s gone from two-for-the-price-of-one to three-for-the-price-of-20.
克林顿一家的表现，仍然仿佛是在从事无私的公共服务。那他们又为什么总是回到大肆捞钱的道路上？而且已经从“花一件的钱买两件”变成了“花20件的钱买三件”。
Hillary’s book — which feels like something she got at Ikea and had someone put together — is drooping because it was more about the estimated $13 million advance and the campaign ramp-up than the sort of intriguing self-examination and political excavations found in the memoirs of Timothy Geithner and Bob Gates. If she had had something to say, the book might have been shorter.
希拉里的书读起来就像是她从宜家买了一些东西，又请人组装在了一起，十分无趣——因为主要是赚取那笔估计有1300万美元的稿酬预付款，并且为她的竞选造势，而不是像蒂莫西·盖特纳(Timothy Geithner)和鲍勃·盖茨(Bob Gates)的回忆录那样，充满了耐人寻味的自我审视和政治内情。如果她确实有什么话要说，这本书可能还会短一些。
Hillary doesn’t see the disconnect between expressing grave concern about mounting student loan debt while scarfing six-figure sums from at least eight colleges, and counting. She says now that she’s passing the university money to the foundation but, never Ms. Transparency, has refused to provide documentation of that. (She’s still pocketing other huge fees for speeches like her April talk in Las Vegas to the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries.)
希拉里一边对逐步加重的学生贷款债务表达着严重的关切，一边又从至少八所院校大肆攫取六位数的酬劳，可她却看不出二者间的脱节。她现在说，她把大学给的钱都转到了基金会，然而她又拒绝提供任何文件证明，“透明女士”是绝不会这么做的。（其他演讲的巨额酬劳，她还是会收入囊中。比如今年4月，她在拉斯维加斯对废料回收业协会[Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries]发表的演讲。）
Chozick estimated that the lucrative family speechmaking business has generated more than $100 million for the former president and first lady, whose fees range from $200,000 to $700,000 per appearance. Bill alone earned $17 million last year doing what he likes to do best — talking.
乔兹克估计，利润丰厚的家族演讲生意，已为前总统和前第一夫人赚取了超过1亿美元，他们每次的出场费从20万美元到70万美元不等。单是比尔一人，去年就靠他最爱干的事——讲话——赚取了1700万美元。
“The issue is that the philanthropic beneficiary of the speeches is a foundation, structured as a public foundation but clearly synonymous with and controlled by the Clinton family,” Rick Cohen writes in The National Philanthropy Quarterly, adding: “Donors and institutions that are paying them and their daughter huge sums for their speeches may very well be buying recognition and face time with powerful political leaders who they hope will be able to deliver political favors in the future.
里克·科恩(Rick Cohen)在《国家慈善季刊》(The National Philanthropy Quarterly)上写道，“问题是这些演讲的受益方是一家基金会，它是一家以公共基金会形式组建的机构，然而它显然是克林顿家族的代名词，为后者所控制。”他还写道：“给克林顿夫妇及其女儿的演讲捐献大笔钱财的个人和机构，或许只是在花钱购买有权有势的政治领导人的认可，购买在他们面前露脸的机会。他们希望，领导人能在日后给他们提供一些政治上的好处。”