In a college gymnasium this month in Newark, New Jersey, Sen. Cory A. Booker introduced Hillary Clinton to the crowd.
在新泽西州纽瓦克的一座大学体育馆内，参议员科里·A·布克(Cory A. Booker)把希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)介绍给了在场的观众。
It took him nearly 13 minutes. He piled praise on her and bashed her Republican rival, quoting Thomas Jefferson, Maya Angelou, Abraham Lincoln and even a 1980s song by Jon Bon Jovi, a New Jersey native.
他花了13分钟时间，对克林顿大加赞扬，猛烈抨击她的共和党对手，引用了托马斯·杰斐逊(Thomas Jefferson)、玛雅·安杰卢(Maya Angelou)和亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)的话，甚至提到出生于新泽西的乔恩·邦·乔维(Jon Bon Jovi)在80年代的一首歌。
“I hate to contradict Bon Jovi,” Booker said. “But dear God, Hillary Clinton, you give love a good name.”
“我真不喜欢和邦·乔维唱反调，”布克说。“但是天啊，希拉里·克林顿，你让爱美名远扬。”（邦·乔维的一首歌名为《你让爱声名狼藉》——译注）
Clinton waved her arms in the air, as if marking the end of a tent revival that lasted a touch too long. She patted Booker on the back, a much less effusive embrace than the one she had given to Bon Jovi, who was standing nearby.
克林顿朝空中挥舞手臂，似乎代表着一场持续时间过久的帐篷复兴仪式的结束。她拥抱了布克，还拍拍他的后背，但远没有她给站在旁边的邦·乔维的拥抱那么热情。
Ambitious Democrats like Booker have started to audition as their presumptive presidential nominee considers who should join her on the national ticket. There is much for Clinton to consider, including competence, agreement on policy and geography.
随着稳获民主党总统候选人提名的克林顿开始考虑自己的副总统人选，像布克这样有抱负的民主党人开始进入面试状态。克林顿需要考虑的因素非常多，包括能力、在政策上的意见一致性，以及地理因素。
Yet Clinton’s advisers and those who have gone through the process emphasize an equally important, if more elusive, quality: chemistry.
不过，克林顿的顾问和那些经历了这一过程的人都强调了一种同样重要的品质，那就是默契，而这可能更加难以把握。
Clinton needs a No. 2 who can ease into the insular and often distrusting Clinton orbit. And a running mate whose company Clinton genuinely enjoys could help present a joyful picture to voters, after a primary season that was sometimes dreary.
克林顿需要的2号人物应该能轻松地进入有些铁板一块且往往猜疑心颇重的克林顿的小圈子。经过了有时显得枯燥乏味的初选季之后，一个克林顿真心享受对方陪伴的竞选伙伴将有助于向选民呈现一个欢乐的画面。
“When the chemistry works, it communicates enthusiasm and a team and the likelihood of success and progress,” said Michael Feldman, who was an aide to former Vice President Al Gore. “But it can’t be an arranged marriage with someone she meshes well with on paper,” he added. “It very much has to be real.”
“如果这种化学反应生效，就可以向外界传达热情和团队感，以及成功和进步的可能，”迈克尔·费尔德曼(Michael Feldman)说。他曾担任前副总统阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)的助手。“但这不能是把她与一个在理论上非常相配的人撮合在一起的婚姻，”他接着说道。“它在很大程度上必须是实际层面的。”
Clinton’s aides began collecting information last week on as many as 10 candidates. James Hamilton, a Washington lawyer who is overseeing the vetting, will begin meeting with candidates as early as this week.
上周，克林顿的助手开始收集多达10位候选人的信息。负责这一审查过程的华盛顿律师詹姆斯·汉密尔顿(James Hamilton)最早将于本周开始和候选人会面。
Senior Democrats, thinking about both the fall election and a potential re-election in four years, said the right choice would stir up enthusiasm on the campaign trail, enhancing Clinton’s strengths while not outshining her or overtaking events.
考虑到秋季的大选和四年后有可能出现的连任竞选，资深民主党人表示，正确的人选将为这场竞选之旅注入热情，将增强克林顿的优势，而非让她相形见拙，或越俎代庖。
Clinton is warm and personable one on one, the Democrats said, which creates an easy camaraderie when she teams up with people she likes.
民主党人表示，在一对一的交往中，克林顿是一个亲切、平易的人，所以在与她喜欢的人组队合作时，比较容易形成一种同事友谊。
In San Antonio, Clinton seemed to light up in the presence of Julián Castro, the city’s former mayor and now the secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Obama administration. She grabbed his hand and thrust it skyward at an outdoor rally, and the two glided naturally on the rope line, snapping selfies.
在圣安东尼奥，克林顿似乎就因胡利安·卡斯特罗(Julián Castro)的存在而喜形于色。后者之前曾担任该市市长，如今是奥巴马政府的住房和城市发展部(Housing and Urban Development)部长。在一场露天集会活动中，她抓住卡斯特罗的手，一起伸向天空，两人在和普通与会者交流时搭配得非常顺畅，还会进行自拍。
The photos from the event, with Clinton, 68, beaming next to Castro, 41, turned out so well that the campaign now provides the images to cable networks to show on the screen when Clinton calls in for phone interviews.
在来自这场活动的照片中，现年68岁的克林顿站在41岁的卡斯特罗旁边，面带微笑。它们的效果如此之好，以致现在克林顿在电视上做电话采访时，竞选团队就提供这些照片做画面。
Last month, at a stop at the Court Street Diner in Athens, Ohio, Clinton warmly embraced Sen. Sherrod Brown, whose policy expertise Clinton has said she admires.
上个月，在俄亥俄州阿森斯的法院街餐厅(Court Street Diner)停留时，克林顿热情地拥抱了谢罗德·布朗(Sherrod Brown)议员。克林顿已经表示过，她很欣赏布朗在政策制定上的专长。
They made their way, practically arm in arm, through the narrow 1950s-themed diner, talking to voters and meeting a developmentally disabled man, Noah, whom Brown introduced to Clinton as “my friend.”
他们基本上是挽着胳膊穿过了这间狭窄的50年代主题餐厅，与选民们交谈，并与一位名为的诺厄(Noah)发育性残障人士会面。布朗向克林顿介绍说他是“我的朋友”。
“How can you not love Athens?” Clinton said. Brown nodded.
“一个人怎么能不喜欢阿森斯？”克林顿说。布朗点点头。
Dr. Lillian Glass, a body language expert, was struck by Clinton’s ease with Brown. “Her body is leaning into his, and she never leans into anybody. She adores that guy,” she said in a telephone interview. “And you can tell that he knows his place. You don’t see him trying to take over.”
肢体语言专家莉莲·格拉斯(Lillian Glass)博士对克林顿和布朗在一起时的自在状态印象深刻。“她的身体向他那边靠近，她从来没有过这样的举动。她非常喜欢那个家伙，”她在接受电话采访时说。“而且你看得出他知道自己的位置。看得出他没有试图僭越。”
In many ways, Clinton’s search mirrors that of George H.W. Bush, who had deep relationships with major players in Washington by the time he captured the Republican nomination in 1988, Dan Quayle, his running mate, said in an interview.
从许多方面讲，克林顿对竞选搭档的筛选都与乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)的情况有些类似。后者当时的竞选搭档丹·奎尔(Dan Quayle)在接受采访时表示，1998年取得共和党总统提名资格时，布什与华盛顿的一些重要角色已经建立了深厚的关系。
The contenders most frequently mentioned by her advisers and senior Democrats close to the campaign include Sen. Michael Bennet, from the key state of Colorado; Thomas E. Perez, President Barack Obama’s secretary of labor and a Hispanic civil rights lawyer; Rep. Xavier Becerra of California; and Sens. Tim Kaine and Mark Warner, both former governors from Virginia. Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts is a favorite of liberal Democrats, though an all-female ticket is unlikely. All of these candidates have relationships with Clinton, and several have appeared with her at campaign events.
克林顿的顾问和与其竞选团队关系密切的资深共和党人最常提到的候选人，包括来自关键州科罗拉多的参议员迈克尔·贝内特(Michael Bennet)；贝拉克·奥巴马总统的劳工部长、西班牙裔人权律师托马斯·E·佩雷斯(Thomas E. Perez)；加州众议员哈维尔·贝塞拉(Xavier Becerra)；参议员蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)和马克·沃纳(Mark Warner)，两位都曾担任弗吉尼亚州州长。马萨诸塞州参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)是自由派民主党人的最爱之一，只是不太会出现两位都是女性的竞选搭档组合。所有这些候选人都和克林顿打过交道，有些还曾与她一起出席过竞选活动。
“This isn’t a consensus-type thing,” Quayle said in a phone interview. “It’s much more the feeling of the two principals, and someone she’s going to feel comfortable with every day.”
“这不是有多大共识的问题，”奎尔在接受电话采访时说。“它更多地和两位主角的感觉有关，得是她日常相处起来感觉比较舒服的人。”
Still, a connection can take hold between two candidates on a presidential ticket who are just getting to know each other.
不过，刚刚认识的两个人也有可能结成竞选搭档。
In 1992, Bill Clinton selected Gore, another youthful Southern Democrat, to reinforce his message that a new kind of Democratic Party was emerging. The two men and their young families proved an electric combination on the campaign trail.
1992年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)选择了另一位年轻的南方民主党人戈尔做搭档，强化了他要传达的信息，即一个新的民主党正在形成。结果在竞选过程中，这两位搭档和他们年轻的家人的组合的确非常令人兴奋。
In a telephone interview, Walter Mondale recalled when he and his wife, Joan, first met with Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter in Georgia in 1976. “Joan said, ‘He’s going to pick you,'” Mondale said. “I said, ‘Why?’ and she said, ‘Because we all get along perfectly.’ And we still do today.”
在接受电话采访时，前副总统沃尔特·F·蒙代尔(Walter Mondale)回忆了1976年他和妻子琼(Joan)第一次在乔治亚州见到吉米(Jimmy)和罗丝琳·卡特(Rosalynn Carter)发生的事。“琼说，‘他会选你，’”蒙代尔回忆道。“我问‘为什么？’她说，‘因为我们几个相处得非常好。’到今天我们还是如此。”
Barack Obama and Joe Biden did not know each other well when the Obama campaign decided the first African-American nominee of a major party needed a scrappy and experienced running mate who could appeal to white working-class voters.
结成搭档之前，贝拉克·奥巴马和乔·拜登(Joe Biden)并不太熟。当时，奥巴马竞选团队做出决定，一个重要政党的首位非裔总统提名人需要一位斗志旺盛且富有经验的竞选搭档，这个人还要能够吸引白人工薪阶层的选票。
Clinton has made clear she wants a partner who shares her granular knowledge of policy and who she will enjoy working closely with in the West Wing.
克林顿明确表示，她想找一个和自己一样熟知政策细节的人，而且得是她乐意与之在白宫西配楼进行密切合作的人。
Although she is at ease with younger hopefuls like Castro, Clinton has also relished policy conversations with Perez, a favorite of labor unions, her advisers said. (Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., has expressed concern that selecting Brown would leave a vacancy in the Senate that a Republican would probably be appointed to fill.)
克林顿的顾问表示，尽管她与卡斯特罗等更年轻的候选人相处愉快，但她也喜欢与工会的最爱佩雷斯进行政策对话。（内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德[Harry Reid]表达了一种担忧，即选择布朗会让参议院出现一个空缺，这个空缺有可能会被一名共和党人填补。）
Clinton may be forced to ignore such factors, Democrats said, and think about whom she most prefers to spend the next four to eight years working with. “It’s like getting married without any divorce proceedings possible,” Mondale said.
民主党人士表示，克林顿可能会被迫忽略此类因素，而去考虑谁是她从接下来的一小时至以后八年内最愿意与之共事的人。“这就像是结一场没有离婚可能的婚，”蒙代尔说。