This month, Lena Dunham, wearing a red, white and blue sweater dress with the word “Hillary” emblazoned across the chest, told voters how Hillary Clinton had overcome sexism in her political career.
这个月，莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)穿着一条红蓝白色的毛衣裙，胸前印有“希拉里”字样，告诉选民，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)是如何在政治生涯中成功克服性别歧视的。
“The way she has been treated is just more evidence of the fact that our country has so much hatred toward successful women,” Ms. Dunham, the creator and star of the HBO series “Girls,” said at a Clinton campaign event in Manchester, N.H.
“她一直以来怎样被人对待，恰好清楚地证明了一个事实，那就是我国非常仇视成功女性，”在新罕布什尔州曼彻斯特的这次支持克林顿的竞选活动中，HBO剧集《都市女孩》(Girls)的主创兼主演杜汉姆说。
But at an Upper East Side dinner party a few months back, Ms. Dunham expressed more conflicted feelings. She told the guests at the Park Avenue apartment of Richard Plepler, the chief executive of HBO, that she was disturbed by how, in the 1990s, the Clintons and their allies discredited women who said they had had sexual encounters with or been sexually assaulted by former President Bill Clinton.
不过，在几个月前曼哈顿上东区的一次晚宴上，杜汉姆却表达出更矛盾的情绪。在HBO首席执行官理查德·普莱普(Richard Plepler)位于公园大道的寓所内，她告诉来宾，自己对90年代克林顿夫妇及其盟友的所作所为感到不安——他们抹黑那些声称自己与前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)有性接触或被其性侵犯的女性。
The conversation, relayed by several people with knowledge of the discussion who would speak about it only anonymously, captures the deeper debate unfolding among liberal-leaning women about how to reconcile Mrs. Clinton’s leadership on women’s issues with her past involvement in her husband’s efforts to fend off accusations of sexual misconduct. The issue emerged last month when Mrs. Clinton accused the Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump of having a “penchant for sexism” and he in turn accused her of hypocrisy, given her husband’s treatment of women.
这场对话由数名知情人士转述，他们均要求不具名。对话展现了倾向自由派的女性间展开的更深层次的争论：一边是希拉里·克林顿于女性议题上的领导力，另一边是她过去曾卷入丈夫为躲过不当性行为指控所做的努力，在这两者之间应如何取得协调？这个问题在上个月浮出水面，当时她指责共和党总统候选人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)有“性别歧视的嗜好”，但鉴于她丈夫对待女性的方式，他反过来指责其虚伪。
And in recent weeks, the scandals of the 1990s and Mrs. Clinton’s role in them have taken on a life of their own, delivering an unexpected headache to a campaign predicated on inspiring female voters.
在最近几个星期，90年代的丑闻和希拉里·克林顿在其中的角色又卷土重来，为以鼓舞女性选民为基础的她的竞选活动带来了几分意料之外的头疼。
Mrs. Clinton had hoped to galvanize women late last month in her critique of Mr. Trump. Instead, two weeks before the Iowa caucuses, her campaign has found itself trying to shore up support among women as discussions about past Clinton scandals have moved from conservative critics to broader public consciousness. “She’s not a victim. She was an enabler,” Mr. Trump told Fox News last week. “Some of these women have been destroyed, and Hillary worked with” her husband, he said.
希拉里·克林顿本希望以上个月底对特朗普的批评来激发女性。然而，在距离艾奥瓦州预选会两周的时候，她的竞选团队却发现，关于克林顿当年丑闻的讨论由保守派评论人士扩散到了更广大的公众，他们须尽力巩固女性的支持。“她不是个受害者。她是个加害者，”特朗普上周对Fox新闻频道(Fox News)说。“这些女性当中有人被摧毁，而希拉里是[她丈夫的]同伙，”他说。
Ms. Dunham declined a request for comment. Her spokeswoman, Cindi Berger, said that Ms. Dunham was “fully supportive of Hillary Clinton and her track record for protecting women,” and that the description of her comments at the dinner party was a “total mischaracterization.”
杜汉姆本人拒绝发表评论。她的发言人辛迪·柏格(Cindi Berger)表示，杜汉姆“完全支持希拉里·克林顿及其在保护女性方面的记录”，而有关杜汉姆在晚宴上意见的描述则是“完全的曲解”。
But the resurfacing of the scandals of the 1990s has brought about a rethinking among some feminists about how prominent women stood by Mr. Clinton and disparaged his accusers after the “bimbo eruptions,” as a close aide to the Clintons, Betsey Wright, famously called the claims of affairs and sexual assault against Mr. Clinton in his 1992 campaign.
然而，90年代的丑闻再次浮现，为一些女权人士带来了重新审视此事的机会，让他们能思考，一些杰出女性当初为何站到了比尔·克林顿一边，并在“傻妞乱冒头”(bimbo eruptions)后贬低指控他的人。在克林顿角逐1992年大选期间，涌现了一批针对他的婚外情和性侵犯指控，而克林顿夫妇的亲密助手贝齐·赖特(Betsey Wright)用了这个说法来形容此事，使之流传开来。
Even some Democrats who participated in the effort to discredit the women acknowledge privately that today, when Mrs. Clinton and other women have pleaded with the authorities on college campuses and in workplaces to take any allegation of sexual assault and sexual harassment seriously, such a campaign to attack the women’s character would be unacceptable.
就连参与到抹黑那些女性的行为中的部分民主党人也私底下承认，在今天，当希拉里·克林顿等女性对大学校园和工作场所的当权者恳求，要认真对待每一桩性侵犯和性骚扰的指控时，这样攻击女性人格的做法是不可接受的。
Back then, Mr. Clinton’s aides, having watched Gary Hart’s presidential hopes unravel over his relationship with Donna Rice in the 1988 Democratic primary race, were determined to quash any accusations against Mr. Clinton early and aggressively, former campaign aides said. Mrs. Clinton had supported the effort to push back against the women’s stories.
一些前竞选助理表示，当年，比尔·克林顿的幕僚看到，在1988年的民主党初选中，加里·哈特(Gary Hart)的总统梦因他与唐娜·赖斯(Donna Rice)的关系破灭，于是决心及早主动地平息任何针对他的指控。希拉里·克林顿支持对那些女性的说法予以驳斥。
Much of her involvement played out behind the scenes and was driven in part by her sense that right-wing forces were using the women and salacious stories to damage her husband’s political ambitions.
她的许多介入属于幕后性质，而她的部分动力源于，感觉右翼势力在利用这些女性和不堪的故事来损害丈夫的政治抱负。
Her reflex was to protect him and his future, and early on, she turned to a longtime Clinton loyalist, Ms. Wright, to defend him against the allegations, according to multiple accounts at the time, documented in books and oral histories.
根据多项书面和口头记录，希拉里·克林顿的第一反应是保护丈夫和他的未来，一早就请夫妇二人的忠实支持者赖特女士为他辩护。
“We have to destroy her story,” Mrs. Clinton said in 1991 of Connie Hamzy, one of the first women to come forward during her husband’s first presidential campaign, according to George Stephanopoulos, a former Clinton administration aide who described the events in his memoir, “All Too Human.” (Three people signed sworn affidavits saying Ms. Hamzy’s story was false.)
乔治·斯特凡诺普洛斯(George Stephanopoulos)在回忆录《人之常情》(All Too Human)中写到，“我们必须摧毁她的故事，”希拉里·克林顿在1991年如此评价康妮·哈姆西(Connie Hamzy)。在克林顿第一次竞选总统期间，哈姆西是出面指控他的首批女性之一。斯特凡诺普洛斯曾在克林顿政府担任幕僚，书中描述了该事件。（有三人签署书面证词，发誓她的说法是假的。）
When Gennifer Flowers later surfaced, saying that she had had a long affair with Mr. Clinton, Mrs. Clinton undertook an “aggressive, explicit direction of the campaign to discredit” Ms. Flowers, according to an exhaustive biography of Mrs. Clinton, “A Woman in Charge,” by Carl Bernstein.
根据卡尔·伯恩斯坦(Carl Bernstein)撰写的一本详尽的希拉里·克林顿传记《掌权的女人》(A Woman in Charge)当中的说法，当珍妮弗·弗劳尔斯(Gennifer Flowers)后来浮出水面，宣称她与克林顿有段长期婚外情后，希拉里“强势地明确指示竞选团队”对弗劳尔斯“进行抹黑”。
Mrs. Clinton referred to Monica Lewinsky, the White House intern who had an affair with the 42nd president, as a “narcissistic loony toon,” according to one of her closest confidantes, Diane D. Blair, whose diaries were released to the University of Arkansas after her death in 2000.
希拉里·克林顿的密友黛安·D·布莱尔(Diane D. Blair)描述，在提到曾与第42任总统有染的白宫实习生莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)时，希拉里称她为“自恋的疯女人”。记录此事的日记在布莱尔2000年去世后赠予阿肯色大学(University of Arkansas)。
Ms. Lewinsky later called the comment an example of Mrs. Clinton’s impulse to “blame the woman.”
莱温斯基后来称该评论是说明希拉里·克林顿直觉上倾向于“责怪女人”的一个例子。
Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, said that “these are attempts to draw Hillary Clinton into decades-old allegations through recent fabrications that are unsubstantiated.” He added that Mrs. Clinton “has spent her whole life standing up for women, and charges to the contrary are grossly unfair and untrue.”
希拉里的发言人布莱恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)表示：“这些都是试图通过新近未经证实的捏造来把希拉里·克林顿拖入数十年之久的指控。”他还说，克林顿夫人“花了她的整个人生支持女性，与此相反的指控是极不公平和不真实的。”
A warning Mr. Trump issued to Mrs. Clinton on Twitter — “Be careful Hillary as you play the war on women or women being degraded card” — initially grabbed attention last month. Then, Ms. Jones, who had accused Mr. Clinton of exposing himself while she was an Arkansas state employee, and Juanita Broaddrick, an Arkansas nursing home executive who alleged that Mr. Clinton sexually assaulted her in 1978 when he was attorney general of Arkansas, re-emerged in the news media.
特朗普在Twitter上向她发出的警告——“希拉里，针对妇女的战争、女性遭受贬损，这些牌你打起来可要小心”——上个月开始引起关注。当时，琼斯女士和胡安妮塔·布罗德里克(Juanita Broaddrick)重新出现在新闻媒体中。前者曾指控克林顿在她当阿肯色州公务员时露体，后者是阿肯色州一座敬老院的行政人员，曾指控克林顿在1978年任阿肯色州司法部长期间对她实施了性侵犯。
Mr. Clinton maintained he was innocent but eventually paid Ms. Jones $850,000 to settle her sexual harassment case. He has denied, through his lawyer, assaulting Ms. Broaddrick.
比尔·克林顿坚称自己无辜，但最终付给了琼斯85万美元来和解她提起的性骚扰案。通过律师，他一直否认曾性侵犯布罗德里克。
“You have to give Trump credit,” said Jennifer Weiner, a best-selling novelist and feminist. “He’s a genius at poking and prodding his competitors until he finds their soft spots.”
“你不得不称许特朗普，”畅销小说作家、女权人士詹妮弗·韦纳(Jennifer Weiner)说。“他太擅于挑拨刺激竞争对手，直到发现他们的软肋。”
By reminding voters about the jarring terms that Mr. Clinton and his advisers used to describe these women, Mr. Trump has sought to diminish one of Mrs. Clinton’s biggest strengths: her commitment to helping women.
通过提醒选民比尔·克林顿及其幕僚用来形容这些女性的不堪言论，特朗普寻求的是削弱希拉里·克林顿的一大优点：她对改善女性地位的承诺。
Mr. Trump’s attacks make Mrs. Clinton look less like “a strong, self-actualized feminist leader who women can proudly get behind,” Ms. Weiner added, and more “like a craven opportunist, and an apologist for a predator.”
特朗普对希拉里·克林顿的攻击令她不再像是个“自我实现的强力女权领袖，可以让女性自豪地追随，”韦纳说，而更像是个“怯懦的投机分子，为奴役女性的家伙推诿辩护。”
Mrs. Clinton’s defenders strongly object to that characterization and say there is no truth to political adversaries’ accusations that Mrs. Clinton muzzled her husband’s accusers. They note that Ms. Broaddrick, for example, has not provided any evidence to show Mrs. Clinton pressured her to stay silent about the assault accusation.
捍卫希拉里·克林顿的人士强烈反对这种定性，宣称政治对手抨击她压制那些指责其丈夫的女性的说法是一派胡言。他们指出，以布罗德里克为例，她一直没有拿出证据来显示希拉里·克林顿迫使她对性侵犯的指控保持沉默。
Many of Mrs. Clinton’s supporters say it is the ultimate act of sexism to hold her culpable for her husband’s transgressions. “Show me the wife who, when she finds out her husband is having an affair with a much younger woman, says, ‘Oh, I feel such sisterhood with her,’” said Katha Pollitt, a feminist poet and columnist for The Nation.
希拉里·克林顿的许多支持者表示，让她为丈夫的过失担责属于极度的性别歧视。“倒是给我们举出一个例子，妻子发现丈夫与年轻得多的女性出轨，妻子却能说出，‘哦，我与她姐妹情深，’”女权诗人、《国家》杂志(The Nation)的专栏作者卡莎·波利特(Katha Pollitt)说。
After Mr. Trump’s initial Twitter post, the debate quickly spread to prominent female writers, who offered opinion columns in Cosmopolitan, Slate and New York Magazine, among other outlets. Even the women on “The View” weighed in.
特朗普起初在Twitter上发出那则帖子后，这方面的辩论迅速在著名女性作家当中传播开来。她们在《Cosmopolitan》、《Slate》和《纽约杂志》(New York Magazine)等刊物上纷纷发表意见。就连晨间节目《观点》(The View)中的那些女性也加入了讨论。