There is a section of Detroit’s east side that sums up the city’s decline, a grim landscape of boarded-up stores, abandoned homes and empty lots that stretch all the way to the river.
底特律东部有一个区域集中展现了这座城市的衰落，满眼都是萧条的景色。大量店铺由木板封起，住宅废弃，空地一直延伸到河边。
And right in the middle of it stands one of the most modern and successful auto plants in the world.
而世界上最现代化、最成功的车厂之一也坐落其中。
More than 4,600 workers staff Chrysler’s sprawling Jefferson North factory nearly around the clock, making one of the most profitable vehicles on the market, the Jeep Grand Cherokee.
超过4600名工人在克莱斯勒(Chrysler)北杰斐逊的大型工厂工作，几乎昼夜不停，生产出市场上最赚钱的车之一——大切诺基(Jeep Grand Cherokee)。
The plant, painted white and surrounded by a fence topped with barbed wire, generates an estimated $2 billion in annual profits and is a huge contributor to the overall health of Chrysler, the nation’s third-largest automaker, and Fiat, its Italian parent company.
这座厂区漆成白色，四周环绕的围栏顶部装有铁丝网。据估计，它创造的年利润约为20亿美元（约合120亿元人民币），对于克莱斯勒和菲亚特(Fiat)的总体发展来说，它贡献巨大。克莱斯勒是美国第三大汽车制造商，而菲亚特是它的意大利母公司。
For a city on the brink of bankruptcy and an American auto industry that many had written off, Jefferson North’s revival has become a symbol that Detroit’s seemingly endless downward spiral can be reversed.
对于这个濒临破产的城市，以及许多人已不再看好的美国汽车行业，北杰斐逊厂的复兴已经成为一个象征，也许底特律看似一泻千里的衰退也是有可能逆转的。
“Everything is aligned there,” said Kristin Dziczek, an analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. “You have a hot-selling, high-profit vehicle, a flexible labor agreement and a facility that the company has invested in instead of abandoned.”
“那里的一切都十分到位，”密歇根州安阿伯的汽车研究中心(Center for Automotive Research)分析师克里斯廷·齐泽克(Kristin Dziczek)说。“你有一款热卖的高利润车、一份灵活的劳动协议，以及一座克莱斯勒已投资且不会放弃的工厂。”
Few could have envisioned the turnaround when Chrysler tumbled into bankruptcy in 2009.
2009年，当克莱斯勒宣布破产时，很少有人能够预见到这样的逆转。
The plant was aging, sales volumes were plummeting and its future was in question. But a government bailout, along with a two-tiered pay structure that cut wages for new employees by $12 an hour, saved the company and delivered it into the hands of Fiat, which now is its majority owner.
当时，厂房老化，销量不断降低，前景不明。但政府的救援，再加上将新员工的时薪减少12美元，采取双级工资结构，种种措施拯救了这家公司，并将它交入菲亚特手中。菲亚特现在是克莱斯勒的多数股权所有人。
Since then, annual production has skyrocketed from fewer than 100,000 vehicles a year to more than 300,000. And a work force that had dwindled to 1,300 people has more than tripled. In June, Grand Cherokee sales rose 33 percent in the United States, as consumers paid as much as $50,000 for a fully loaded model.
从那时起，其年生产量从每年不足10万辆激增到逾30万辆。而曾经削减到1300人的员工总数已增加了两倍多。6月，大切诺基在美国的销售量提高了33%，消费者会支付5万美元购买一款最高配置的车型。
The profits and productivity at Jefferson North would put it on par with the most efficient luxury car plants in Germany and the best factories operated by Japanese automakers in the southern United States.
北杰斐逊厂的利润和生产力，令其足以匹敌德国最高效的豪华车生产厂，以及日本汽车制造商在美国南部经营最好的工厂。
That Jefferson North is situated in one of the most impoverished parts of Detroit only made it more of a gamble for Chrysler to keep.
北杰斐逊厂坐落于底特律最贫困的地区之一，这令克莱斯勒当时保留它的决定更具风险。
“There were certainly skeptics about us continuing to do business in the city,” said Scott R. Garberding, Chrysler’s chief of manufacturing.
“当时，肯定有人对我们继续在这座城市开展业务持怀疑态度，”克莱斯勒的制造部负责人斯科特·R·加伯丁(Scott R. Garberding)说。
Coming out of bankruptcy, the company had little cash, and less margin for error, in deciding which models to push to help it survive.
在走出破产阴影之后，克莱斯勒在决定主推哪些车型能帮助它生存时，没有多少现金，也没有太多犯错的余地。
But at Jefferson North, the company already had a new Grand Cherokee close to production, part of a $1.8 billion investment in the plant it announced in 2008. The plant also had a skilled veteran work force that would not need much training. In addition, the plant had received a city tax abatement on new machinery and equipment.
但在北杰斐逊厂，克莱斯勒已经有一个将要投产的新款大切诺基，这属于该公司2008年宣布的对这座工厂18亿美元投资的一部分。该厂还拥有一批经验丰富的资深工人，无需太多培训。此外，工厂当时还享受了底特律对新机械、设备的减税优惠。
In the end, Chrysler decided that the stylish Jeep was its best bet for a hit.
最终克莱斯勒决定，这款时尚的吉普车将是它成功的最佳赌注。
Today, Jefferson North stands as the last auto assembly plant entirely within the city limits of Detroit, which once had nearly a dozen of them. General Motors also operates a car plant that is partly in Detroit and partly in the neighboring city of Hamtramck
如今，北杰斐逊厂已是最后一家全部在底特律的汽车装配厂了，而这里一度有十几家这样的厂。通用汽车公司(General Motors)也有一家汽车制造厂，但它一部分位于底特律，一部分位于附近城市汉姆川克。
The Chrysler plant is one of the biggest employers in Detroit, which has a 16 percent unemployment rate. It is also one of its largest taxpayers, last year paying more than $12 million in property taxes. A third of its workers, both union and management, live in the city, the company said.
克莱斯勒工厂是底特律用工最多的雇主之一。底特律现在的失业率为16%。它还是该市最大的纳税主体之一，去年支付了超过1200万美元的物业税。该公司称，工厂中三分之一的员工，包括工人和管理人员，都住在这座城市中。
Since its bankruptcy, Chrysler has hired two full shifts of new workers, about 2,200 people, at the lower wage. Additional workers have come from the ranks of veteran employees who had been laid off.
自破产以来，克莱斯勒已经以较低一级的工资雇佣了整整两个班次的新工人，约有2200人。新招的工人都是被其他工厂裁员的资深工人。
The company has taken advantage of the groundbreaking labor agreement with the United Automobile Workers union, agreed to in 2007, to bring on new employees at an entry-level wage just under $16 an hour, compared with the $28 earned by longtime union workers.
该公司在2007年与全美汽车工人联合会(United Automobile Workers)签订了一项开创性的劳动协议，使得该公司能够以低于每小时16美元的入门级工资招收新工人，相比之下，长期参加工会的工人的时薪则是28美元，克莱斯勒利用了这项协议。
Kawanne Clark, a 23-year-old native of Detroit’s east side, was hired a year ago to work on the assembly line. He had waited more than two years — working at a furniture store and attending college part time — since first applying for the job.
23岁的卡万尼·克拉克(Kawanne Clark)是一名土生土长的底特律东区人，一年前，他受雇开始在克莱斯勒的装配线上工作。从第一次应聘该职位以来，他已经等了两年多，期间他一边上大学，一边在一家家具店工作。
“I took the chance because it’s a great opportunity with great earning potential,” Mr. Clark said. “You can move up, especially if you’re a young guy who is driven and motivated.”
“我抓住了这次机会，因为这个机会很不错，未来可能能赚不少钱，”克拉克说，“你可以升职，特别是，如果你是一个有决心有积极性的年轻人。”
He was recently promoted to team leader on the final stages of the assembly line, which is turning out more than 1,200 new sport utility vehicles a day.
他最近被提升为装配线最后工序部分的组领导。这条装配线每天生产超过1200辆运动型多用途车。
“Every vehicle we manufacture is already a sold order,” Jason Ryska, the plant’s manager, said. “We’re not even building inventory.”
“我们生产的每一辆车都已被定，”工厂经理贾森·里斯卡(Jason Ryska)说，“我们甚至都没有库存。”
The plant’s productivity is essential to Chryslerr. When it slowed production in the first quarter of this year to switch to an updated version of the Grand Cherokee, profit at Chrysler plunged 65 percent.
这家工厂的生产力对克莱斯勒来说至关重要。在今年第一季度，当该工厂放慢生产，转为生产新改款的大切诺基时，克莱斯勒的利润暴跌了65%。
Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of both Chrysler and Fiat, acknowledged the contribution Jefferson North made compared with plants building its other products. “I’d have to make an awful lot of Dodge Darts to replace the profits made by the Grand Cherokee,” he told analysts in April.
克莱斯勒和菲亚特共同的首席执行官赛尔焦·马尔基翁内(Sergio Marchionne)认可了杰斐逊北部装配厂做出的贡献，并将之与生产其他产品的工厂对比。“我必须要制造出极多的道奇(Dodge)Dart轿车，才能抵得上大切诺基产生的利润，”他在4月份告诉分析人士说。
Among the changes that Mr. Marchionne introduced when he took over Chrysler was Fiat’s exacting manufacturing style, which had a big effect in a plant that had struggled under Chrysler’s previous owners. One of his first moves was to order a top-to-bottom cleaning and repainting; in an unusual move, it was all done by the plant’s workers, not just maintenance crews.
接管克莱斯勒之后，马尔基翁内带来了一些变化，其中就包括菲亚特精益求精的生产风格，这对工厂产生了巨大影响，在克莱斯勒从前的所有者的管理下，该工厂曾举步维艰。马尔基翁内最初采取的措施之一，是要求对工厂展开自上而下的大扫除，并重新刷漆；不寻常的是，这些工作由工厂的所有工人完成，而不仅仅是维修人员。
The success of Jefferson North defies conventional wisdom in the auto industry that the most efficient plants are new factories built on big tracts of rural land in southern states like Tennessee and Alabama. In fact, the wide, sparsely used streets around Jefferson North make it easy for trucks laden with supplies or finished Jeeps to move in and out.
杰斐逊北部装配厂的成功打破了汽车行业的传统规律：即最高效的工厂是那些建在田纳西和阿拉巴马等南部州大片农村土地之上的新工厂。事实上，杰斐逊北部装配厂周围人迹罕至的宽阔街道，十分利于载着物资或吉普车成品的卡车进出。
It’s hard to escape the stark contrast between the manicured lawns and jammed parking lots on the grounds of the plant and the desolate, pockmarked neighborhoods that surround it.
工厂内修剪整齐的草坪和塞满车辆的停车厂，和其周围荒无人烟、地面凹凸不平的街区形成了鲜明对比，令人无法忽视。
Streetlights are often dark at night on Jefferson Avenue because of a lack of money in the city’s budget. In May, the police discovered a human torso in a burned-out home three blocks from the plant’s front entrance.
由于城市预算紧缺，杰斐逊大道上的路灯在晚上通常是暗着的。5月，警察在距离工厂正门三个街区的一栋烧毁房屋内，发现了一具人体躯干。
The biggest building nearby is the long-closed, graffiti-covered Continental Tire factory, empty for decades but never torn down.
附近最大的一栋建筑便是早已关闭的大陆轮胎(Continental Tire)工厂，上面覆盖着涂鸦，数十年来一直空着，但从没被推倒。
For new hires like Mr. Clark, working at the Chrysler plant is a rare chance to be part of what’s left of the city’s signature industry. His grandmother retired from General Motors, and his father works at the Ford Motor Company. He grew up just a few miles away, but punching in at Jefferson North is like entering a different world.
对于克拉克这样的新雇员来说，在克莱斯勒工厂工作是个少有的机会，能参与到该城市硕果仅存的标志性产业之中。克拉克的祖母从通用汽车退休，他的父亲在福特汽车公司(Ford Motor Company)工作。他在离工厂几英里的地方长大，但是在杰斐逊北部装配厂打卡上班就像是进入一个不同的世界。
“I grew up on the east side, and it’s not too good around here,” he said. “Coming here is one of the best decisions I ever made in my life.”
“我在东区长大，那边不是特别好，”他说，“来这儿是我一生中所做过的最好决定之一。”