AMMAN, Jordan — Secretary of State John Kerry suggested on Sunday that Iran might play a role at the peace talks on Syria that are scheduled to take place this month.
约旦安曼——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周日提出，定于本月举行的叙利亚和平谈判中，伊朗也许可以发挥一定的作用。
It was the first time that a senior American official had indicated that Iranian diplomats might participate in the session, which is to convene in Switzerland on Jan. 22.
这是第一次有美国高级官员表示伊朗外交官可能参与会谈。会议定于1月22日在瑞士举行。
But Mr. Kerry also made clear that there would be limits on Iran’s role if Tehran did not formally accept that the goal of the conference would be to work out arrangements for a transitional authority that would govern Syria if President Bashar al-Assad could be persuaded to give up power.
但是克里同时也明确表示，如果德黑兰不能正式地接受会谈的目标，伊朗在谈判中的作用就会受到限制。这个目标就是协商产生一个过渡性政府，一旦总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al- Assad)经劝说放弃权力后，过渡性政府就可以执掌叙利亚。
“Now, could they contribute from the sidelines? Are there ways for them conceivably to weigh in?” Mr. Kerry said, referring to the Iranians. “Can their mission that is already in Geneva be there in order to help the process?”
“那么，他们能否在一旁做出贡献？能不能找到一些合适的办法，让他们参与进来？”克里在谈到伊朗人时说道。“他们的使团已经到了日内瓦，能否让这个使团对整个过程产生助益？”
“It may be that that could happen, but that has to be determined by the secretary general,” he added, referring to Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations. “It has to be determined by Iranian intentions themselves.”
他还说道，“也许那是可以实现的，但必须由秘书长来定夺，”这里是指联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)。“也必须由伊朗自身的意愿来决定。”
Mr. Kerry made the comments at a news conference in Jerusalem before he headed to Jordan to continue his consultations with King Abdullah on the Middle East peace talks. Mr. Kerry planned to head to Saudi Arabia later Sunday to meet with the Saudi monarch before returning to Israel.
克里是在耶路撒冷的一次新闻发布会上发表这番言论的，随后他动身前往约旦，继续就中东和平会谈与阿卜杜拉国王(King Abdullah)磋商。克里计划在周日晚些时候前往沙特阿拉伯，与沙特君主会面，而后再返回以色列。
Russia has argued that Iran should be present at the peace conference, as has Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations special envoy. But France and the United States previously insisted that Iran first make clear that it supports the goal of the meeting: a transition to a governing structure that would exclude Mr. Assad.
俄罗斯曾提出伊朗应该出席和平会谈，联合国和平特使拉赫达尔·卜拉希米(Lakhdar Brahimi)也发表了类似见解。但是法国和美国此前都坚持要伊朗首先明确它支持会谈的目标：向一个将阿萨德排除在外的政府执政体系过度。
Iran has been one of Mr. Assad’s main supporters and has been supplying his government with arms and supporting his war efforts with military advisers.
伊朗一直是阿萨德的主要支持者，向他的政府提供武器，并派出军事顾问协助他的战争活动。
On Iraq, meanwhile, Mr. Kerry expressed serious concern about the inroads made by Al Qaeda’s affiliate there, including the capture of major parts of Falluja, in Anbar Province.
与此同时，克里对基地组织(Al Qaeda)分支在伊拉克取得的行动进展表达了深切担忧，这其中包括对安巴尔省费卢杰大部地区的占领。
Mr. Kerry described the group, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, as “the most dangerous player in the region.”
克里称这个名为伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度(Islamic State of Iraq and Syria)的组织是“该地区最危险的一股势力”。
The secretary of state said the United States had been in contact with Sunni tribal leaders and would try to help them and the Iraqi government in their fight with the militants.
国务卿称，美国已经和逊尼派部族领导人取得联系，会尽量帮助他们以及伊拉克政府与这些激进分子展开战斗。
But Mr. Kerry provided no specifics about what assistance the United States would provide and hinted that the help would not include the use of American-operated armed drones or airstrikes.
但克里没有透露美国具体会提供哪些协助，只是暗示这其中不会包括使用由美国人操控的武装无人机或空中打击。
“This is a fight that belongs to the Iraqis,” he said. “We are going to do everything that is possible to help them.”
“这是一场属于伊拉克人的战斗，”他说。“我们会尽一切可能去帮助他们。”