CLEVELAND — Facing jeers even from many of his own constituents, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas on Thursday defended his non-endorsement of Donald Trump, talking down hecklers at a fractious breakfast forum the morning after his performance onstage upended the Republican National Convention.
克利夫兰——由于未表态支持唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)，德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)甚至被自己所在选区的选民起哄。周三，也就是用演讲搅乱了共和党代表大会的次日，他在一个气氛紧绷的早餐会上驳斥了人群中的挑事者。
In an extraordinary display of party division — at a typically staid Texas state delegation breakfast that is held with the intentions of exemplifying convention-week harmony — Cruz strained to manage the vitriol directed his way, stressing that he had not said a cross word about Trump.
德州党代表早餐会是为了彰显大会周和谐气氛而举办的，向来一本正经，但此次却表现出少见的党内分歧——克鲁兹竭力压制针对他的恶意，强调他并没有说过一句特朗普的坏话。
“I addressed the convention because Donald Trump asked me to,” he said. “And when Donald Trump asked me to, he didn’t ask me to endorse.”
“我在大会上发言是因为唐纳德·特朗普让我发言，”他说。“唐纳德·特朗普让我发言的时候，并未让我表态支持他。”
Repeatedly, the taunts rained down on him.
嘲弄和奚落不断向他袭来。
“Sit down!” one man said, before a “Clinton-Cruz 2020” sign was raised.
“坐下！”一个男人说，随后举起了写有“克林顿—克鲁兹2020”的标语牌。
The episode supplied another vivid demonstration of a party sharply at odds during a moment historically reserved for unity, a snapshot of a convention hurtling into chaos in what was intended to be a celebratory week.
这一幕又一次生动地表明，在按照历史惯例所有人都应该团结一致的时刻，共和党内部仍然存在严重的分裂；同时也让外界看到，在本应以欢庆为基调的这一周，共和党代表大会却陷入了一片混乱。
When attendees pointed out Cruz’s past pledge to support the eventual Republican nominee, Cruz, under duress throughout 25 minutes of heated questioning, suggested that any agreement was “abrogated” when Trump attacked the senator’s family.
当参会者指出，克鲁兹承诺过会支持共和党最终提名人的时候，被迫接受了长达25分钟的激烈质询的克鲁兹表示，在特朗普攻击他的家人之际，所有承诺都“作废”了。
Cruz said the response of Trump supporters was troubling.
克鲁斯说，特朗普支持者的反应令人担忧。
“What does it say when you stand up and say ‘vote your conscience,'” he began, “and rabid supporters of our nominee begin screaming, ‘What a horrible thing to say!'”
“当你站起来说‘本着良心投票’，”他开口说道，“我党提名人的狂热支持者就开始高呼，‘这话太难听了！’这说明了什么？”
If the nominee cannot meet that threshold, he said, “We are not going to win and don’t deserve to win.”
如果提名人不够格，他说，“我们就无法、也不配取得胜利。”
It was another vintage Cruz performance — defiant, lofty and certain to anger even people inclined to defend him —delivered before a bitterly divided audience from the home state that offered him a convincing victory in its presidential primary.
这是克鲁兹的又一场经典演出——叛逆而高傲，就连原本想要为他辩护的人也会被他惹恼——观众是来自他的家乡的人们，在初选阶段，这些人曾给他带来一场颇具说服力的胜利，而此刻他们正陷入痛苦的分歧。
Some of the Texas delegates who stood to plead with him were respectful and measured; others were angry and demanding. A handful of attendees left the reception hall as he spoke.
一些依然支持他的德州党代表还算谦恭有度；另一人则非常愤怒，咄咄逼人。几个参会者在他说话时离开了招待厅。
Cruz’s team has noted that Trump’s campaign — which includes a former top Cruz adviser, Jason Miller — had seen the speech in advance, that Cruz delivered it virtually verbatim as written and that Cruz had himself spoken to Trump about the fact that he would not endorse.
克鲁兹的团队指出，特朗普的竞选团队——其中包括克鲁兹以前的高级顾问贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)——事先看过演讲稿，克鲁兹演讲时是在照本宣科，而且克鲁兹亲自告诉过特朗普，他不会表态支持特朗普。
After Cruz’s remarks on Thursday, his campaign manager, Jeff Roe, held forth with reporters at length, describing his dealings with the Trump campaign as cordial and emphasizing that Cruz might yet lend Trump explicit support.
克鲁兹在周二发言后，其竞选经理杰夫·罗伊(Jeff Roe)向记者们做出了详细的说明，他说克鲁兹和特朗普之间的交往是诚挚友好的，他还强调克鲁兹仍然可以向特朗普提供明确的协助。