YALTA, Crimea — The cavernous cellars of the Massandra vineyards bear testament both to the tumult of history and to the enduring appeal of the wine produced on Crimea’s steep, volcanic slopes.
克里米亚雅尔塔——马桑德拉葡萄园(Massandra)巨大深邃的酒窖所承载见证的，不仅有历史的喧嚣，还有克里米亚陡峭的火山斜坡产出的佳酿的持久魅力。
Czar Nicholas II founded Massandra in 1894 to provide wine for his summer palace; the double-headed eagle of his seal is still visible on some dusty bottles. During World War II, Stalin ordered the evacuation of 60,000 bottles from the best vintages. In more recent times, there have even been a couple of ill-starred attempts to get American presidents to drink the stuff.
1894年，沙皇尼古拉二世(Czar Nicholas II)创建了马桑德拉，用来给自己的夏季行宫提供酒品。在一些蒙尘的酒瓶上，仍然可以看到他印章上的双头鹰图案。第二次世界大战期间，斯大林下令将最佳年份的6万瓶美酒撤走。再往后，甚至还有那么几次并不走运的尝试，想要让美国总统一品马桑德拉的佳酿。
“Czar. U.S.S.R. Ukraine. Russia,” enumerated Valentyn Mytyayev, head of international trade for the vineyard, as he walked among the cellar’s 971,000 bottles.
“沙皇、苏联、乌克兰、俄罗斯，”马桑德拉的国际贸易主管瓦连京·米佳耶夫(Valentyn Mytyayev)在酒窖的97.1万瓶酒中走过，口中一一吐出这些年代。
“Look! Revolution. Civil War. World War,” he said, pointing out significant dates from Russian and world history: 1905, 1917 and 1944. “We were working all the time through history.”
“看！革命、内战、世界大战，”他指出了俄罗斯及世界历史中的重要年份：1905、1917和1944。“我们在回顾各个历史时期。”
With Russia’s sudden annexation of Crimea in March, the winery has changed hands once more, lost to the Ukrainian government and regained by Moscow. The one constant, Mr. Mytyayev noted, is that Crimea’s average 300 sunny days per year produce a steady harvest of sweet grapes.
今年3月，俄罗斯突然吞并克里米亚，马桑德拉再次易主，从乌克兰政府手中重新回到莫斯科名下。米佳耶夫指出，有一样东西恒久不变，那就是克里米亚年均300日的晴天能带来稳定的甜葡萄大丰收。
Agriculture is a crucial sector that the Kremlin hopes to rejuvenate to make Crimea an economic success story under Russian tutelage. The new administration hopes to exploit the wine industry not least to draw more tourists, blaming Ukraine for neglecting both when it ran Crimea.
农业是克里姆林宫希望重振的克里米亚关键部门，为的是让该地区在俄罗斯治下呈现出经济成功的面貌。新政府希望开发葡萄酒业，尤其是为了吸引更多的游客。他们责怪乌克兰统治克里米亚的时候忽略了这两个领域。
“Thank God it has not been completely ruined within these 23 years,” said Yelena Yurchenko, Crimea’s minister of tourism and resorts, speaking of viniculture. “Of course it would be in better shape if there had been investments in this field.”
谈到葡萄酿酒，克里米亚旅游度假部长叶连娜·尤尔琴科(Yelena Yurchenko)说，“谢天谢地，在那23年里没被彻底毁掉。如果这个领域一直有投资的话，情况当然会更好。”
Actually, while much of Crimea was bemoaning empty hotel rooms and a scant number of tourists, the bedrock of the economy, the team at Massandra was in a buoyant mood. Wines flew off the shelves at their three local stores last month, on track to double the sales volume from last year, they said.
实际上，尽管克里米亚的许多地方在为空荡荡的酒店房间和稀稀拉拉的游客人数——当地经济的基石——而长吁短叹，马桑德拉的人们却心情一片明媚。他们表示，上个月，三家本地商店的酒品销售旺盛，销量有望比去年翻番。
The winery attributed the increase to many first-time Russian visitors’ eagerly snapping up potable souvenirs. The czar’s former winery now caters more to those day-to-day visitors than to the elite, producing 10 million bottles a year. Winemaking in Crimea dates back more than 3,500 years, but the intense Black Sea sunshine means it is most known for sweet wines and sherry.
马桑德拉将这种涨势归因于，许多头一回来的俄罗斯访客热烈抢购酒类纪念品。昔日的沙皇酒庄如今更多地服务于平常游客，而非权贵，年产量达1000万瓶。克里米亚的酿酒活动可以追溯到3500多年前，不过，黑海的炙热阳光意味着，这里最出名的是甜酒与雪利酒。
Massandra has been considered a little bit apart ever since its inception. It was popular among members of the artistic high society who summered near the czar. Anton Chekhov brought friends there from his nearby villa. Nationalized in 1922, after the Russian Revolution, it remained a popular draw. Maxim Gorky penned a tribute that was carved into a metal plaque on the wall. But no one is quite sure who visited before World War II, because the Nazi occupiers made off with the guest book.
诞生之日起，马桑德拉就一直被认为有点与众不同。在沙皇身边的上流文艺圈中，它颇受欢迎。安东·契诃夫(Anton Chekhov)会从他在附近的别墅带朋友前来。俄国革命之后，马桑德拉于1922年被国有化，却依然延续了红火之势。马克西姆·高尔基(Maxim Gorky)写了一篇歌颂文章，被镌刻成金属铭牌，挂到了墙上。然而，无人确切地知道二战前到底有谁来访，因为纳粹占领者逃跑的时候带走了宾客簿。
A special 1936 law that preserves the cellars under state protection remains in effect. When Mikhail S. Gorbachev, as the Communist Party’s general secretary, started an anti-alcohol campaign in the late 1980s, vineyards all over Russia were uprooted. But Massandra was spared.
1936年颁布的一项特别法将马桑德拉酒窖置于国家保护之下，至今仍然有效。上世纪80年代末，当苏共总书记米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)发动禁酒运动时，苏联各地的葡萄园被铲平，但马桑德拉得以幸免。
“Massandra is a different country, like the Vatican in Italy,” said Nikolay Boyko, the director general of Massandra for the past 27 years. “We live according to our own laws and regulations.”
“马桑德拉是独立王国，就像身处意大利的梵蒂冈，”过去27年间在此担任总经理的尼古拉·博伊科(Nikolay Boyko)说。“我们按照自己的法规行事。”
Winery workers made no secret of their joy at being back under Russian control, however. They painted the main forklift in the cellars with the colors of the Russian flag. Mr. Boyko said he could not speculate on the fallout from Western sanctions imposed on Russia after annexation. The bulk of the winery’s exports already went to Russia, anyway, and they will just have to endure this murky period as they have previous ones, he said.
不过，酒庄员工毫不掩饰对回到俄罗斯治下的喜悦之情。他们把酒窖的主叉车涂上俄罗斯国旗的颜色。博伊科表示，他想不出合并后西方对俄罗斯施加的制裁会有何后果。马桑德拉的大部分出口本已销往俄罗斯。他说，无论如何，他们会努力熬过这段困难期，就跟以前的类似时期一样。
The management hopes that the uncertainty generated by events in Ukraine will not discourage far-flung collectors interested in its rare wines from the vineyard of the Romanovs. On one recent day, a buyer from London and one from Moscow were expected for lunch. Mr. Boyko said he considered their visit an encouraging sign that the winery’s historical appeal was enduring.
管理层希望，乌克兰事态带来的不确定性不会吓跑那些对罗曼诺夫王朝的稀有葡萄酒感兴趣的远方藏家。不久前的一天，两位分别来自伦敦和莫斯科的买家预约来这里进午餐。博伊科称，他觉得二人的到访是个积极的信号，表明马桑德拉的历史感具有持久的吸引力。
The winery has occasionally sold off bottles at international auctions. One of its oldest, a Spanish sherry De La Frontera from 1775, fetched around $50,000 at a Sotheby’s auction in 2001, Mr. Boyko said, noting that it was considered a bad year for sales.
酒庄偶尔会在国际拍卖中出售几瓶。博伊科说，在苏富比(Sotheby’s)2001年的一次拍卖中，马桑德拉最陈年的收藏之一、一瓶1775年的西班牙赫雷斯-德拉弗龙特拉雪利酒拍得5万美元（当时约合41万元人民币）。他特意指出，2001年被认为是销售惨淡的一年。
For both Russia and Ukraine, Massandra wine has long been used to celebrate special occasions, and the winery has been an important destination for foreign dignitaries. The nearly two-inch thick book produced for its 115th anniversary showed pictures of visitors like Ho Chi Minh of Vietnam, Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia and numerous other luminaries of the Communist galaxy.
在俄罗斯和乌克兰，马桑德拉葡萄酒长期以来均被用来庆祝特殊场合，酒庄本身也是外国政要的重要访问地。为酒庄115年庆制作的纪念册有近两英寸厚（约合5厘米），里面展示了越南的胡志明(Ho Chi Minh) 、南斯拉夫的约瑟普·布罗兹·铁托(Josip Broz Tito)等共产主义阵营的无数名人到访的照片。
In 1997, to honor the signing of the Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and Russia, the winery added bottles of Massandra sherry produced that year to its permanent collection.
1997年，为了庆祝乌克兰与俄罗斯签署《友好合作伙伴关系条约》(Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership)，酒庄将当年酿制的一批马桑德拉雪利酒加入其永久收藏中。
“It is still maturing,” Mr. Mytyayev said.
“还在陈酿着呢，” 米佳耶夫说。