SEOUL, South Korea — Secretary of State John Kerry rebuffed North Korea’s demand that the United States and South Korea briefly delay a joint military exercise this month so that it does not coincide with the scheduled reunion of families separated by the Korean War.
韩国首尔——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)拒绝了朝鲜的要求，后者要求美国和韩国暂时推迟计划于本月举行的联合军演，以便错开朝鲜战争(Korean War)离散家庭团聚活动的计划举办时间。
If held, the reunions would signal a significant thaw between the two Koreas. North Korea argues that exercises raise tensions, while American and South Korean officials view Pyongyang’s latest demand as part of its longstanding effort to undermine the United States’ military commitment to South Korea.
若得以举行，团聚活动将标志着朝韩关系有了重大缓和。朝鲜称联合军演导致紧张加剧，美韩两国官员则认为，朝鲜的这一要求是其长期以来削弱美国对韩军事承诺的努力的一部分。
Mr. Kerry’s comments came during the first stop of a multination trip to Asia meant in part to solidify efforts for dealing with North Korea and its increasingly sophisticated nuclear weapons programs. His arrival in South Korea came on the heels of a White House announcement on Wednesday that President Obama will visit South Korea, Japan, Malaysia and the Philippines in April, part of the administration’s continuing efforts to direct more of its attention to Asia as China rises.
克里是在其亚洲之行的首站做出相关评论的。克里此次将访问多个亚洲国家，部分是为了巩固应对朝鲜及其日趋成熟的核武器计划的努力。克里抵达韩国前不久，白宫于周三宣布，奥巴马总统将于4月访问韩国、日本、马来西亚和菲律宾。面对中国的崛起，这是奥巴马政府将更多精力转向亚洲的持续努力的一部分。
The joint military drills with South Korea are supposed to begin on Feb. 24. In a news conference with his South Korean counterpart, Mr. Kerry said that it was not “appropriate” to link humanitarian issues with North Korea’s security demands.
美韩联合军演预定于2月24日开始。在同韩国外长举行的新闻发布会上，克里表示，“不宜”将人道主义问题与朝鲜的安全要求联系起来。
“The family reunification is a matter of human rights,” Mr. Kerry said. “There is no legitimate excuse for linking the two.”
“家庭团聚是人权事务，”克里说，“将两者联系在一起，并没有适当的理由。”
Yun Byung-se, South Korea’s foreign minister, also rejected the North’s demand. “On that, South Korea and the United States have no difference at all,” he said.
韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se) 也拒绝了朝鲜的要求。“在这一点上，韩美两国意见完全一致，”他说。
There was no immediate response from North Korea, and it was unclear whether the family reunions, scheduled for Feb. 20-25, would still take place. North and South Korea were to begin a second round of high-level talks on Friday to discuss the issue.
朝鲜没有立即做出回应，目前也不清楚，原定于2月20日至25日举行的家庭团聚活动会否如期举行。朝韩两国将于周五举行第二轮高层会谈，商讨此事。
Robert Carlin, a former State Department official, asserted in the online publication 38 North that the fact that North Korean officials had proposed that the exercises be delayed a couple of days, and not canceled, was a sign that Pyongyang had been interested in exploring “various compromises” on the issue.
国务院(State Department)前官员罗伯特·卡林(Robert Carlin)在 38 North网站上表示，朝鲜官员只是提议将演习延后几天，没有要求取消演习，这一事实标志着平壤有意在这个问题上尝试 “各种妥协”。
Mr. Obama’s visit to the region will take place amid increased tensions between South Korea and Japan that experts say have hampered efforts by the United States to forge a united front with its Asian allies against North Korea and in its diplomacy toward China.
奥巴马计划中的亚洲之行正值韩日两国紧张关系升级，一些专家称，韩日两国的紧张关系已经影响了美国同亚洲盟友结成统一战线对抗朝鲜的努力，也影响了对华外交。
Mr. Obama had deferred plans to visit Malaysia and the Philippines in October because of the United States government shutdown. Now that the trip has been rescheduled, visits to Tokyo and Seoul have been added to the itinerary.
去年10月，因为美国政府停摆，奥巴马推迟了访问马来西亚和菲律宾的计划。美国政府重新安排了对马来西亚和菲律宾的访问，顺便也把东京和首尔加进了行程。
At the news conference on Thursday, Mr. Kerry, who also met with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, urged the South and Japan to “put history behind them” and heal their rift.
在周四的新闻发布会上，已与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)会面的克里敦促韩国和日本“放下历史恩怨”，弥合裂痕。
Mr. Yun, however, blamed Japan for the problems.
然后，尹炳世将问题归咎于日本。
“Some Japanese political leaders have made a lot of historically incorrect remarks,” said Mr. Yun, whose country was colonized by Japan in the 20th century. “And so these leaders must look at history as it is, and they must be very sincere.”
“日本的一些政治领导人发表了大量关于历史的错误言论，”尹炳世说。“因此，这些日本领导人必须正视历史，必须拿出十分真诚的态度。”20世纪，韩国曾沦为日本的殖民地。
Relations between Japan and South Korea have been sour for months, but they were aggravated recently by the visit of the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to a shrine that commemorates the more than two million Japanese war dead, including convicted war criminals. Many in South Korea view such visits as proof that Japan has not fully owned up to its imperial past.
日韩关系恶化已有数月，进一步恶化则是因为日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)最近参拜了纪念包括战犯在内的逾200万阵亡者的神社。很多韩国人都认为，此类参拜说明日本没有完全承认自己的帝国历史。
American officials witnessed how rapidly the already tense relations between Japan and South Korea deteriorated under Mr. Abe and Ms. Park when Chuck Hagel, the United States defense secretary, visited Seoul in September. When Mr. Hagel appealed to Ms. Park to improve relations with Japan, she denounced Mr. Abe’s “total absence of sincerity” and urged the defense secretary to use his “influence so that Japan will make the effort necessary to earn the trust of its neighboring countries.”
去年9月，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)访问首尔时，美国官员目睹了本已紧张的日韩关系在安倍晋三和朴槿惠的领导下迅速恶化的过程。当哈格尔吁请朴槿惠改善韩日关系时，她谴责安倍晋三“完全没有诚意”，并敦促哈格尔运用自己的“影响力，以使日本做出赢得邻国信任的必要努力”。
At the time, some American officials expressed frustration with South Korea, but Ms. Park has continued to refuse to hold a summit meeting with Mr. Abe. Mr. Abe’s visit to the war shrine also drew American disapproval.
当时，一些美国官员向韩国表达了不满，但朴槿惠仍然拒绝与安倍晋三举行峰会。安倍晋三参拜前述战争神社的举动也遭到了美国的反对。
On Friday, Mr. Kerry is scheduled to fly to Beijing to seek China’s help in pressuring North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons programs.
周五，克里将飞往北京，目的是寻求中国的帮助，迫使朝鲜放弃核武器计划。
Mr. Yun said that North Korea had recently been sending “mixed signals,” on one hand calling for dialogue, and on the other continuing to work to expand its nuclear and missile programs.
尹炳世表示，朝鲜最近发出了“一些自相矛盾的信号”，一方面呼吁对话，一方面又继续扩展核计划和导弹计划。
In addition to discussing North Korea in Beijing, Mr. Kerry plans to address climate change and China’s claims to maritime territories long claimed by other countries in the region. China’s increasingly assertive moves to establish its claims have raised tension in East and Southeast Asia.
访问北京期间，除讨论朝鲜问题之外，克里还计划探讨气候变化和中国对一些海域的主权要求，该地区的其他几个国家长期以来也宣称对这些领海拥有主权。中国巩固主权要求的举措日渐强硬，使得东亚和东南亚局势趋紧。
On Saturday, Mr. Kerry is to head to Indonesia, where he will deliver a speech on climate change.
 周六，克里将前往印度尼西亚，并在那里发表有关气候变化的演讲。