NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar — Less than two months after a civilian government took many of the levers of power in Myanmar for the first time in a half century, Secretary of State John Kerry conducted a seemingly routine diplomatic meeting Sunday with the most improbable Burmese counterpart: Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Prize-winning dissident who now sits atop a government that had long kept her under house arrest. 
缅甸内比都——半个世纪来，文官政府首次在缅甸掌握了重大权力，在他们上任不到两个月后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上周日举行了一个看似例行的外交会议，但对方的对等官员却是最意想不到的人物：昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)，一个诺贝尔奖得主，持不同政见者，现在成为了一个曾长期软禁她的政府的领导者。
Their discussion focused on Myanmar’s brutal treatment of a Muslim minority group — at a moment when outsiders are questioning whether Suu Kyi, a hero of the human rights movement, has a double standard — and on the delicate question of whether Myanmar’s military leaders once had a program in place to build a nuclear weapon. 
他们的讨论集中在两个问题上，一是遭到残酷对待的缅甸穆斯林少数群体——这段时间，外界对昂山素季这个人权运动英雄是否拥有双重标准产生了质疑——另一个比较微妙的问题是，缅甸军方领导人是否曾有过研制核武器的计划。
Yet Kerry seemed struck by the very idea that he was having the conversation at all. 
不过，这场会议能够举行本身似乎就让克里感触良多了。
He recalled visiting Suu Kyi at her lakeside home in Yangon, when it was still the capital of what was then called Burma, and sparring with members of the junta. They “assured me that there were no political prisoners” in the country, he said, and “tried to tell me that the people of Myanmar prized order more than they prized democratic rights.” 
他回忆起在仰光的湖畔拜访昂山素季的家，当时仰光仍是缅甸首都，他还回忆了与军政府成员之间的争论。他们“向我保证，国内没有政治犯”，他说，他们“试图告诉我，相比民主权利，缅甸人民更在乎秩序”。
The meeting between Kerry and Suu Kyi was a milestone in one of the Obama administration’s biggest foreign policy experiments: to coax isolated, longtime adversaries into engaging with the United States and gradually moving toward more democratic governance. Iran and Cuba have taken steps but strongly resist fundamental change; efforts with North Korea never got off the ground. 
克里和昂山素季的会晤，是奥巴马政府的一场重大外交政策实验的里程碑事件：这场实验要说服遭到孤立的长期对手与美国接触，朝着更加民主的治理方向前进。伊朗和古巴已经有所行动，但对于根本性的变化还是存在强烈的抵触；而朝鲜方面的努力一直没有任何进展。
Why that policy succeeded in Myanmar will be studied for decades, and had as much to do with personalities as institutions — chiefly inside the military. 
为什么这个政策在缅甸获得了成功，人们将对此进行数十年的研究，它和个体个性的关系，不亚于机构——主要是在军队内部。
“They accepted defeat, and have generally supported the political transition,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser, said in Washington last week, when the United States lifted sanctions on Myanmar. “This work is incomplete, and the military’s role in politics continues to go beyond what would constitute a full transition to democracy.”
“他们接受了失败，而且在总体上支持政治转型，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J.Rhodes)上周在华盛顿说，当时美国解除了对缅甸的制裁。“这项工作尚未完成，军方在政治中的角色，依然不是全面转向民主的政体所应有的。”