Secretary of State John Kerry has recommended that Robert S. Ford serve as the next American ambassador to Egypt, American officials said Sunday, a critical role at a time of rising turmoil and anti-Americanism in the traditional Arab ally.
美国官员周日表示，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)已经推荐罗伯特·S·福特(Robert S. Ford)担任下一任美国驻埃及大使。埃及是美国在阿拉伯世界的传统盟友，在埃及国内的动荡局面及反美情绪趋于上升之际，埃及大使是一个关键的角色。
Mr. Ford, a longtime Middle East hand and fluent Arabic speaker, is well known for taking an active role as ambassador to Syria in challenging President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown before American diplomats were pulled out of the country for their own safety.
福特是资深的中东问题专家，说得一口流利的阿拉伯语。担任美国驻叙利亚大使期间，在美国出于安全考虑将外交人员撤出叙利亚之前，福特曾在反对巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)的镇压行动方面发挥了积极作用，由此名声大振。
With Egypt in a state of political upheaval, the ambassadorial pick for Cairo has emerged as one of the most important diplomatic assignments for President Obama, who made a warmly received policy speech to the Islamic world in Cairo in June 2009.
由于埃及处于政治动荡状态，挑选美国驻埃及大使成为了奥巴马总统最重要的外交任务之一。奥巴马总统曾于2009年6月在开罗向伊斯兰世界发表政策演讲，演讲受到了热烈的欢迎。
But four years later, the Obama administration’s influence has substantially waned, and Egypt’s bitter rivals — the secular liberals and the supporters of Mohamed Morsi, the ousted president — have each accused Washington of undermining their cause.
但四年之后，奥巴马政府的影响力已经大大减弱，埃及国内的两股水火不容的势力——世俗自由主义者及被罢黜的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者——都指责美国破坏了他们的事业。
The next American ambassador has the difficult task of repairing the United States’ image, expanding its influence and working with opposing groups inside the country, as well as diplomats from Arab and European nations, to try to stabilize Egypt and put it on a democratic course.
下一任美国大使面临着艰巨的任务，即修复美国形象，扩大美国的影响力，与埃及国内反对组织、阿拉伯及欧洲国家的外交人员合作，努力促进埃及稳定，使其保持民主进程。
Mr. Ford could not be reached, and the State Department declined to comment on Mr. Kerry’s recommendation. As with all ambassadorial appointments, the recommendation needs to be approved by Mr. Obama.
记者无法与福特取得联系，国务院(State Department)拒绝就任命一事置评。跟所有的大使任命一样，克里的推荐需要获得奥巴马的批准。
Mr. Ford, whose likely nomination for the Cairo post was reported last week by the online publication Al-Monitor, has also served as ambassador to Algeria and did multiple tours in Iraq, including one as a representative of the American occupation authority in Najaf, where he was briefly detained at gunpoint in 2003 by the Badr Corps militia.
网络刊物Al-Monitor曾于上周报道，福特可能会被任命为美国驻埃及大使。除叙利亚大使之外，福特还曾担任美国驻阿尔及利亚大使，并曾多次前往伊拉克，其中一次是以美国在纳杰夫的占领当局的代表身份前往。2003年，福特曾被民兵组织巴德尔旅(Badr Corps)武装挟持，在纳杰夫遭受短暂扣押。
He also participated in the strategy review that Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker oversaw in Baghdad on how to carry out the military surge in 2007.
他还曾参与一次战略评估，即2007年戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)和大使瑞安·C·克罗克(Ryan C. Crocker)在巴格达监督的有关如何实施增兵政策的战略评估。
Mr. Ford served in the economic section of the American Embassy in Cairo from 1988 to 1991 and studied Arabic in the country in the early 1980s.
福特曾于20世纪80年代早期在埃及学习阿拉伯语，1988至1991年间供职于美国驻开罗大使馆的经济部门。
Most Americans are likely to know of him from his time in Syria. His nomination to serve as the chief American envoy in Damascus was initially held up by senators who were opposed to the policy of filling the vacant ambassador post in Mr. Assad’s Syria because of Syria’s meddling in Lebanon.
大部分美国人可能是在他供职叙利亚期间知道他的。最初，让他出任驻大马士革首席美国特使的提名受到了一些参议员的阻挠，这些参议员反对填补驻叙利亚大使的职位空缺，因为阿萨德领导的叙利亚干涉了黎巴嫩事务。
Mr. Obama used a recess appointment to install him. As opposition built to Mr. Assad, Ambassador Ford visited the restive city of Hama in July 2011 and attended a funeral for a slain activist. He was a sharp critic of the Assad government’s repression and used the embassy’s Web site to present his version of events. But he also urged that demonstrations be peaceful.
奥巴马利用休会任命权让他得以就任。反对阿萨德的声浪逐渐升高之际，福特大使于2011年7月访问动荡不安的哈马市，出席了一名被杀活动人士的葬礼。他对阿萨德政府的镇压活动进行了尖锐的批评，并用大使馆的网站呈现他所知道的事件。但他同时呼吁，应和平进行示威游行。
In September 2011, a pro-government mob tried to break down the door when Mr. Ford went to a meeting with Hassan Abdel-Azim, an opposition figure in Damascus. An American Embassy security detail was sent to the scene, but two of the vehicles were attacked with iron bars and concrete blocks and destroyed. After four hours, the Syrian police finally arrived and Mr. Ford was able to return to the embassy.
2011年9月，当福特前去会见大马士革的反对派人士哈桑·阿卜杜勒-阿齐姆(Hassan Abdel-Azim)时，一群支持政府的暴民试图破门而入。美国大使馆的一支安全分遣队奉命赶赴现场，但他们的两辆车因遭到铁棒和混凝土块的袭击而被毁。四小时后，叙利亚警方终于赶到，福特才得以回到大使馆。
The next month, Mr. Ford was recalled to the United States because of threats to his safety.
同年10月，福特奉召返回美国，因为他的人身安全受到了威胁。
He returned to Damascus in December, but in February 2012, as the security situation in Syria sharply deteriorated, the American Embassy was closed. He later became the chief American envoy to the Syrian opposition, a position he still holds.
他于12月重返大马士革，不过，因为叙利亚安全局势急剧恶化，美国大使馆于2012年2月关闭。他随后出任与叙利亚反对派联络的首席特使，目前仍担任这一职位。
The Cairo post has been a difficult one to fill, in part because of confusion in Egypt about American policy. Anne W. Patterson, who served since 2011 as the American ambassador in Cairo and was recently nominated for a senior State Department post, became a lightning rod for both sides and was assailed as a defender of the status quo by critics of Mr. Morsi before his ouster.
驻埃及大使的合适人选很难找，一定程度上是因为埃及对美国的政策进行了混乱的解读。从2011年开始担任驻埃及大使的安妮·W·帕特森(Anne W. Patterson)成了备受双方指责的人，在穆尔西下台之前，穆尔西的批评者还抨击她维护现状。前不久，帕特森被提名为国务院(State Department)一个高级职位的人选。
“Part of the problem Anne Patterson faced was a vacuum in policy,” said Vali Nasr, the dean of the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. “If she went and met with the Muslim Brotherhood, it was construed that she was pro-Brotherhood.
“安妮·帕特森面临的部分问题是一种政策真空，”约翰斯·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)高级国际研究学院(School of Advanced International Studies)院长瓦利·纳斯尔(Vali Nasr)说，“如果她去会见穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的人，就会被人解读为支持穆兄会。”
“If she met with the military, the Brotherhood thought she was giving a green light to a coup.”
“如果她同军方会面，穆兄会就认为她是在为发动政变开绿灯。”