When Russia seized Crimea in March, it acquired not just the Crimean landmass but also a maritime zone more than three times its size with the rights to underwater resources potentially worth trillions of dollars.
俄罗斯在三月夺取克里米亚后，得到的不只是克里米亚的土地，还有一片面积为其陆地面积三倍以上的海域，及其水下可能价值数以万亿美元计的资源。
Russia portrayed the takeover as reclamation of its rightful territory, drawing no attention to the oil and gas rush that had recently been heating up in the Black Sea. But the move also extended Russia’s maritime boundaries, quietly giving Russia dominion over vast oil and gas reserves while dealing a crippling blow to Ukraine’s hopes for energy independence.
按照俄罗斯的说法，接管克里米亚是收回自己的合法领土，丝毫未提黑海地区日益升温的石油和天然气热潮。但是这一举动同时也拓展了俄罗斯的海洋疆域，悄无声息地将巨大的石油和天然气储备掌握在自己手中，同时给正在寻求能源独立的乌克兰带去沉重的打击。
Russia did so under an international accord that gives nations sovereignty over areas up to 230 miles from their shorelines. It had tried, unsuccessfully, to gain access to energy resources in the same territory in a pact with Ukraine less than two years earlier.
俄罗斯是根据一项国际条约做到这一点的，该条约规定国家对距其海岸线230英里（约合370公里）内的海洋拥有主权。不到两年前，它曾尝试和乌克兰签署协定，从而获取到这个区域的能源，但没能成功。
“It’s a big deal,” said Carol R. Saivetz, a Eurasian expert in the Security Studies Program of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It deprives Ukraine of the possibility of developing these resources and gives them to Russia. It makes Ukraine more vulnerable to Russian pressure.”
“此事非同小可，”麻省理工学院安全研究项目(Security Studies Program of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的欧亚专家卡罗尔·R·萨伊维茨(Carol R. Saivetz)说。“这剥夺了乌克兰开发这些资源的可能性，把它交给了俄罗斯。这让乌克兰在俄罗斯的威压面前愈发不堪一击。”
Gilles Lericolais, the director of European and international affairs at France’s state oceanographic group, called Russia’s annexation of Crimea “so obvious” as a play for offshore riches.
法国国家海洋研究机构欧洲和国际事务总监吉尔·勒西库赖(Gilles Lericolais)称俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并“很明显”是冲着海上的财富去的。
In Moscow, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin said there was “no connection” between the annexation and energy resources, adding that Russia did not even care about the oil and gas. “Compared to all the potential Russia has got, there was no interest there,” the spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said Saturday.
弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统的一位发言人在莫斯科说，合并与能源资源之间“没有关联”，并称俄罗斯甚至都不重视那里的石油和天然气。“和俄罗斯已有的潜能比起来，我们对那里没兴趣，”发言人德米特里·佩斯科夫(Dmitri Peskov)在周六说。
Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell and other major oil companies have already explored the Black Sea, and some petroleum analysts say its potential may rival that of the North Sea. That rush, which began in the 1970s, lifted the economies of Britain, Norway and other European countries.
埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)、荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)等大石油公司已经对黑海进行了勘探，一些石油分析师说其潜在资源可能和北海不相上下。而始于上世纪70年代的北海开采潮曾带动了英国、挪威及其他欧洲国家的经济发展。
William B. F. Ryan, a marine geologist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, said Russia’s Black Sea acquisition gave it what are potentially “the best” of that body’s deep oil reserves.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)拉蒙特-多尔蒂地球观测中心(Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory)海洋地质学家威廉·B·F·瑞恩(William B. F. Ryan)说，俄罗斯在黑海得到的区域可能是“最好”的那部分，蕴藏着大量深海石油。
Oil analysts said that mounting economic sanctions could slow Russia’s exploitation of its Black and Azov Sea annexations by reducing access to Western financing and technology. But they noted that Russia had already taken over the Crimean arm of Ukraine’s national gas company, instantly giving Russia exploratory gear on the Black Sea.
石油分析师称，越来越多的经济制裁可以限制来自西方的资金和技术，从而拖慢俄罗斯开采黑海和亚速海的速度。但是他们注意到，俄罗斯已经接管了乌克兰国家石油公司在克里米亚的分支机构，这等于立刻就获得了黑海勘探所需的设备。
“Russia’s in a mood to behave aggressively,” said Vladimir Socor, a senior fellow at the Jamestown Foundation, a research group in Washington that follows Eurasian affairs. “It’s already seized two drilling rigs.”
“目前俄罗斯的行事风格是很凶悍的，”关注欧亚事务的华盛顿研究机构詹姆斯顿基金会(Jamestown Foundation)高级研究员弗拉迪米尔·索科尔(Vladimir Socor)说。“它已经夺取了两座钻井。”
The global hunt for fossil fuels has increasingly gone offshore, to places like the Atlantic Ocean off Brazil, the Gulf of Mexico and the South China Sea. Hundreds of oil rigs dot the Caspian, a few hundred miles east of the Black Sea.
对矿物燃料的全球搜寻行动正越来越多地蔓延到海上，出现在巴西附近的大西洋、墨西哥湾和南中国海等海域。在黑海以东几百英里处的里海上就密布着数以百计的石油钻井。
Nations divide up the world’s potentially lucrative waters according to guidelines set forth by the 1982 Law of the Sea Treaty. The agreement lets coastal nations claim what are known as exclusive economic zones that can extend up to 200 nautical miles (or 230 statute miles) from their shores. Inside these zones, countries can explore, exploit, conserve and manage deep natural resources, living and nonliving.
在海上潜在资源的分配上，各国依据的指导原则来自1982年的《联合国海洋法公约》(Law of the Sea Treaty)。该公约规定临海国家可以将距其海岸线200海里（约合370公里）以内的区域据为己有，称之为“专属经济区”。各国可以在这些区域内勘探、开采、保护和管理深海自然资源，生物和非生物资源皆包括在内。
The countries with shores along the Black Sea have long seen its floor as a potential energy source, mainly because of modest oil successes in shallow waters.
一直以来，黑海周边国家都视这片大海为潜在的能源来源，这主要是因为它们在这里的浅水海域取得了一定程度的成功。
Just over two years ago, the prospects for huge payoffs soared when a giant ship drilling through deep bedrock off Romania found a large gas field in waters more than half a mile deep.
就在两年前，一艘在罗马尼亚领海进行深海基岩钻探的巨轮，在水下超过半英里处的地方找到了一块巨大的天然气田，这愈发让人们对黑海充满希望。
Russia moved fast.
俄罗斯的动作很快。
In April 2012, Mr. Putin, then Russia’s prime minister, presided over the signing of an accord with Eni, the Italian energy giant, to explore Russia’s economic zone in the northeastern Black Sea. Dr. Ryan of Columbia estimated that the size of the zone before the Crimean annexation was roughly 26,000 square miles, about the size of Lithuania.
2012年4月，俄罗斯在时任总理普京的主持下与意大利能源巨头埃尼集团(Eni)签署了一项协议，对俄罗斯在黑海东北部的专属经济区进行勘探。哥伦比亚大学的瑞恩博士估计，在吞并克里米亚之前，那块区域的面积大概是2.6万平方英里，与立陶宛国土面积相当。
“I want to assure you that the Russian government will do everything to support projects of this kind,” Mr. Putin said at the signing, according to Russia’s Interfax news agency.
据俄罗斯新闻机构国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，普京在签字仪式上说，“我可以向你们保证，俄罗斯政府会尽一切力量支持这类项目。”
A month later, oil exploration specialists at a European petroleum conference made a lengthy presentation, the title of which asked: “Is the Black Sea the Next North Sea?” The paper cited geological studies that judged the waters off Ukraine as having “tremendous exploration potential” but saw the Russian zone as less attractive.
一个月后，石油勘探专家在一个欧洲石油研讨会上做了一场冗长的报告，报告标题是“黑海是下一个北海吗？”那篇论文援引地质研究称，乌克兰领海拥有“惊人的勘探潜能”，但俄罗斯的区域则没那么有吸引力。
In August 2012, Ukraine announced an accord with an Exxon-led group to extract oil and gas from the depths of Ukraine’s Black Sea waters. The Exxon team had outbid Lukoil, a Russian company. Ukraine’s state geology bureau said development of the field would cost up to $12 billion.
2012年8月，乌克兰宣布与埃克森美孚为首的一个集团签署了协议，对乌克兰的黑海水域进行深海石油和天然气开采。埃克森美孚的团队在竞标中击败了俄罗斯的卢克石油(Lukoil)。乌克兰国家地质局称油气田开发的成本高达120亿美元。
“The Black Sea Hots Up,” read a 2013 headline in GEO ExPro, an industry magazine published in Britain. “Elevated levels of activity have become apparent throughout the Black Sea region,” the article said, “particularly in deepwater.”
“黑海升温”，这是英国出版的产业杂志《GEO ExPro》在2013年一篇文章的标题。“活动升级的迹象在整个黑海地区都很明显，”文章称，“尤其是在深海。”
When Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine on March 18, it issued a treaty of annexation between the newly declared Republic of Crimea and the Russian Federation. Buried in the document — in Article 4, Section 3 — a single bland sentence said international law would govern the drawing of boundaries through the adjacent Black and Azov Seas.
3月18日俄罗斯将克里米亚半岛从乌克兰手中夺走，并发布了新成立的克里米亚共和国与俄罗斯联邦之间的一份合并条约。在条约的一个不起眼的角落——第4条第3款——有一句看似平常的话，称毗连的黑海与亚速海将依据国际法进行划分。
Dr. Ryan estimates that the newly claimed maritime zone around Crimea added about 36,000 square miles to Russia’s existing holdings. The addition is more than three times the size of the Crimean landmass, and about the size of Maine.
瑞恩博士估计，俄罗斯新近得到的克里米亚周边海域面积总和约为3.6万平方英里。这是克里米亚陆地面积的三倍以上，与缅因州的面积大致相当。
At the time, few observers noted Russia’s annexation of Crimea in those terms. An exception was Romania, whose Black Sea zone had been adjacent to Ukraine’s before Russia stepped in.
在当时， 旁观者很少会从这些角度去看待俄罗斯对克里米亚的并吞。罗马尼亚是个例外，俄罗斯介入前，该国的黑海经济区和乌克兰是相邻的。