WASHINGTON — Senator Ted Cruz’s crusade to dismantle President Obama’s health care law has helped cement his status as an emerging hero of the Tea Party and conservative grass roots. But it is stoking resentment and derision from many other Republicans, including his own Senate colleagues, who see his campaign as impractical, self-interested and potentially damaging to the party’s electoral efforts in 2014 and beyond.
华盛顿——参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)发起的废除奥巴马总统医保法案的运动，帮助他在茶党(Tea Party)及保守派草根之中巩固了自己冉冉上升的英雄地位。不过，这也激起了包括其参议院同事在内的许多共和党人士的反感与嘲讽。他们认为，克鲁兹的活动不切实际、自私自利，还可能损害该党2014年及以后的选举工作。
Mr. Cruz’s 21-hour, all-night assault on the Affordable Care Act — which ended rather anticlimactically on Wednesday after the Senate voted to take up a budget bill that Democrats intend to alter to their liking — has focused national attention on the 42-year-old agitator, who is only nine months into his first term in the Senate but appears to have greater ambitions. On Tuesday night as he spoke, his political action committee was hosting a $2,500-per-plate fund-raiser in Washington. A television provided a live feed of his speech.
克鲁兹连夜对《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)发起了21小时的冗长攻击，却以虎头蛇尾的方式于周三收手，因为参议院表决同意开始讨论一项预算案（民主党人意欲朝己方有利的方向去修改它）。不过，克鲁兹的演说将全国的注意力集中到了这名42岁的鼓动者身上。他是个参议院新人，首个任期刚到第九个月，却显示出了更大的雄心。周二晚间演讲进行的同时，他的政治行动委员会在华盛顿举办了一场筹款会，每张门票2500美元（约合1.5万元人民币）。现场有一台电视直播他的演说。
Mr. Cruz’s efforts have helped re-energize a sizable contingent of conservatives who felt leaderless and demoralized after Republicans lost seats in Congress and the White House last year.
克鲁兹的所作所为对重新激发一大群保守派人士的活力有所帮助。在去年的选举中，共和党人损失了数个议席的同时输掉了白宫之战，让这些人感到群龙无首、士气低落。
But the episode has drawn unwanted attention to a deepening rift among Republicans who feel torn between warring elements. As the party looks to take the Senate majority next year and recapture the White House in 2016, the split pits an emerging, younger class of social-media-savvy leaders like Mr. Cruz of Texas, who claim the mantle of a resurgent grass roots, against those who believe their colleagues are recklessly pursuing a strategy that builds up individual political brands at the party’s expense.
不过，这件事也给矛盾加深的共和党人带来了不必要的关注，而他们正因各种冲突而左右为难。共和党着眼于明年夺取参议院的多数席位，并在2016年入主白宫，而这种分歧却造成了两派对立。一方是像来自德克萨斯州的克鲁兹这样的熟悉社交媒体的新兴年轻力量，他们接管了重新活跃起来的草根；另一方则认为，这些人以整个共和党的利益为代价，不计后果地追求个人政治品牌的打造。
Some Republicans are beginning to complain more and more that with the help of outside, Tea Party-inspired groups, Mr. Cruz and others like Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Rand Paul of Kentucky — both presidential prospects who battled alongside their colleague from Texas in the current health care fight — are leading conservatives to believe the current fight over cutting money for the health law is winnable when it is not.
一些共和党人开始越来越多地抱怨，在与茶党有关的外部团体的协助下，参议员克鲁兹、佛罗里达州的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)，以及肯塔基州的兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)等人让保守派误以为，目前关于削减医保法案拨款的斗争可以取得胜利，但实际并非如此。卢比奥与保罗两人均是潜在的总统竞选者，在当前的医保之争中，他们与德克萨斯州的克鲁兹并肩作战。
“This is not a situation where you dig your heels in and Obamacare gets defunded,” said Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, who has one of the most conservative voting records in the Senate. “I think people are willing to hope that’s true. I wish it were true. Trust me, I hope Senator Cruz’s oratory convinces five Democratic senators to vote with us. I just don’t think that’s going to happen.”
“不是说，你决不妥协奥巴马医改就能没了拨款，”来自威斯康星州的共和党参议员罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)说。他的投票记录属于参议院中最保守之列。“我想，人们愿意希望这真的会发生。我也这样希望。真的，我希望克鲁兹参议员的豪言壮语能够说服五名民主党参议员投票时站在我们这边。但我认为，这根本不可能。”
Mr. Cruz and others who insist that they can prevail in defunding the health care law, Mr. Johnson added, are misleading voters who are looking to them for leadership that the party has lacked lately. “They just want anybody who offers them a path, whether it’s realistic or not,” he said.
克鲁兹等人坚称，他们可以成功地让医改法案不获拨款。但约翰逊表示，这是误导那些指望从他们身上找到共和党近来缺失的领导力的选民。“选民们只是希望能有人给他们指一条路，不管是不是可行，”他说。
Senators complained publicly this week that their phone lines had been clogged with calls from voters, many of them misinformed about the true nature of the health care defunding bill now before Congress, as well as the confusing procedural gymnastics taking place on the floor.
有些参议员本周公开抱怨称，他们的电话被选民打爆，而其中许多人得到的是错误信息，无论是国会目前讨论的不给医保拨款的提案的实质，还是两院令人困惑的繁琐程序。
“We have people calling into our office every day saying, ‘Please support the House bill,’ ” said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, referring to the bill that the House passed defunding the Affordable Care Act. “Well, I do,” he added, sounding exasperated. “Do I think this has been a constructive process? Not particularly.”
来自田纳西州的共和党参议员鲍勃·柯克(Bob Corker)说，“每天都有人往办公室打电话说，‘请支持众议院的提案。’”这个提案就是众议院通过的不给《合理医疗费用法案》拨款的提案。“对，我支持，”他恼火地说道。“那我认为这个过程有建设性吗？不见得。”
Groups like FreedomWorks, Heritage Action for America and Tea Party Express have relished picking fights with Republicans like Mr. Corker, whom they dismiss as turncoats. And this week they mobilized as part of a carefully choreographed and mutually beneficial effort to rally conservatives behind Mr. Cruz’s cause.
自由事业(FreedomWorks)、美国遗产行动(Heritage Action for America )和茶党快车(Tea Party Express)等组织乐于挑战柯克等共和党人，将其贬称为叛徒。本周，它们行动起来将保守派聚集到克鲁兹议程的背后，使之成为精心策划的互惠行动的一部分。
A few days before Mr. Cruz took to the Senate floor on Tuesday, members of his staff began reaching out to some of the country’s leading conservative grass-roots groups.
克鲁兹周二晚间走上参议院讲台的几天前，其幕僚就开始联系部分知名的保守派草根团体。
They were cryptic and unspecific, saying only that something big was coming, according to one activist who was contacted, and that they should be prepared to activate their social networks and spread the word. They sprang into action once the senator began talking. They used the Twitter hashtag his staff provided — #MakeDCListen — to rally their followers online, and deluged their subscriber lists with millions of e-mails telling people to call their senators and demand they support Mr. Cruz as he pulled his all-nighter.
一名收到通知的活动人士称，这些人显得很神秘，有些含糊其辞，只说有大事要发生，他们应该准备好启动社交网络并传出消息。克鲁兹的讲话一开始，他们就迅速行动起来。克鲁兹整夜演讲的同时，他们在Twitter上采用他的幕僚提供的#MakeDCListen标签来在网上集结关注者，并用数百万封电子邮件轰炸注册用户，告诉民众给参议员打电话，并要求他们支持克鲁兹。
So far, their message of entrenched Washington Republican interests being at odds with the interests of ordinary Americans has proved to be a powerful one.
迄今为止，他们的讯息被证明十分有力：固步自封的华盛顿共和党人的利益与普通美国民众的利益相悖。
“We should continue the fight, that’s what the people want,” Mr. Paul said shortly after Mr. Cruz left the Senate chamber.
克鲁兹离开参议院会场后不久，保罗说，“我们应当继续战斗，这是民众的期望。”
Senator Mike Lee, a Utah Republican, said they were acting as a last line of defense for voters who expected Republicans to act. “A lot of people thought the Supreme Court would act. It didn’t,” he said. “A lot of people thought Mitt Romney would win, or some other Republican would win, and that would stop it. That didn’t happen.”
来自犹他州的共和党参议员迈克·李(Mike Lee)表示，他们是守护期望共和党有所作为的选民的最后一道防线。“许多人以为最高法院会有所作为，结果没有，”他说。“许多人以为米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)或其他什么共和党人会胜选，然后可以阻止医改。结果也没发生。”
That message was also a consistent theme of Mr. Cruz’s as he spoke into Wednesday morning.
这一讯息也与克鲁兹演讲到周三早间的主题一致。
“All of Washington wants to tell you, the citizen: Can’t be done,” he said. “You cannot win. Your view will not be listened to.”
“全华盛顿希望告诉你们这些公民：不可能，你们赢不了，你们的声音无人倾听。”
Mr. Cruz and his allies in the Republican Party claim a big mantle: the voice of disaffected and restless conservatives, and some say that has upset the established political order.
克鲁兹及其共和党盟友宣称自己代表很多人：不满而焦躁的保守派声音。有人表示，这已经颠覆了现行的政治秩序。
No amount of grass-roots energy matters unless the Republican Party wins elections, several senators noted this week. And Mr. Cruz’s strategy, they complained, was sure to be a losing one.
不过，数名参议员本周指出，如果共和党不能赢得选举胜利，草根的能量再大也枉然。他们还抱怨，克鲁兹的做法注定会失败。
“I’m not in the shut-down-the-government crowd,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “I’m in the take-over-the-government crowd.”
来自田纳西州的共和党参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)说，“我不属于让政府关门的那拨人。我属于要接管政府的那拨人。”