PEREVALNOYE, Crimea — The soldiers guarding the entrances to the surrounded Ukrainian military base here just south of the capital, Simferopol, had little in common with their predecessors from past Russian military actions.
克里米亚佩列瓦利诺耶——这个被包围的乌克兰军事基地位于首府辛菲罗波尔以南，在门口警戒的士兵，与以往俄罗斯军事行动中的士兵几乎毫无共同之处。
Lean and fit, few if any seemed to be conscripts. Their uniforms were crisp and neat, and their new helmets were bedecked with tinted safety goggles. They were sober.
这些士兵精瘦而健康，似乎很少有义务兵。他们穿着笔挺而整洁的制服，新头盔上还带着彩色的护目镜。他们的神智是清醒的。
And there was another indicator of an army undergoing an upgrade: compact encrypted radio units distributed at the small-unit level, including for soldiers standing such routine duty as guard shifts beside machine-gun trucks. The radios are a telltale sign of a sweeping modernization effort undertaken five years ago by Vladimir V. Putin that has revitalized Russia’s conventional military capabilities, frightening some of its former vassal states in Eastern Europe and forcing NATO to re-evaluate its longstanding view of post-Soviet Russia as a nuclear power with limited ground muscle.
还有另一个标志也说明这个军队正在升级：他们给小作战单位都配备了小型加密无线通讯设备，包括在配备机枪的卡车旁执行站岗之类例行任务的士兵都有。五年前，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)开始大规模推动军队现代化，给俄罗斯的常规军事能力注入了活力，这些无线电设备就证明了这一点。这种做法对一些地处东欧的前苏联成员国造成了威慑，并迫使北约(NATO)不得不重新审视苏联解体后的俄罗斯——北约此前一直认为俄罗斯是一个地面作战力量有限的核武国家。
Across Crimea in the past several weeks, a sleek new vanguard of the Russian military has been on display, with forces whose mobility, equipment and behaviors were sharply different from those of the Russian forces seen in action in the brief war in Georgia in 2008 or throughout the North Caucasus over nearly two decades of conflict with Muslim separatists.
过去几周，格里米亚各处都出现了焕然一新的俄罗斯先头部队。它们的机动能力、武器装备和行为举止都与2008年俄罗斯与格鲁吉亚发生短暂冲突时的俄军或在北高加索与伊斯兰分裂分子交锋长达近二十年的俄军截然不同。
Past Russian military actions have often showcased an army suffering from a poor state of discipline and supply, its ranks filled mostly with the conscripts who had not managed to buy deferments or otherwise evade military service. Public drunkenness was common, as were tactical indecisiveness and soldiers who often looked like they could not run a mile, much less swiftly.
在过去的俄罗斯军事行动中，这支军队时常在纪律性与补给方面显得状况堪忧，普通士兵中大多是一些无力靠贿赂来推迟或避免兵役的义务兵。军人们经常在公共场合醉酒，战术上犹豫不决，士兵们看起来就像连一英里都跑不动的样子，快跑就更不行了。
Not so in Crimea. After a Kremlin campaign to overhaul the military, including improvements in training and equipment and, notably, large increases in pay, the results could be seen in the field. They were evident not only in the demeanor of the Russian soldiers but also in the speed with which they overwhelmed Crimea with minimal violence.
在克里米亚不是这样。克里姆林宫推动了一项军队全面整改运动，其措施包括改善训练方式和武器装备，而且最值得一提的是，军人的薪酬也得到了大幅提高，效果可以在战场上看出来。我们不仅能从俄罗斯士兵的表现上，而且还能从他们只动用极少的武力就吞没克里米亚的事实中，明显看到改革的效果。
The Kremlin’s investment, analysts said, has revived Russia’s military, which has now shown that it can field a competent and even formidable force, and both guard the nation and project power to neighboring states.
分析人士说，克里姆林宫的投资振兴了俄罗斯军队，它现在能够拿出足够的、甚至令人畏惧的武力，无论是守卫国家，还是对邻国施展力量。
“The development of Russian armed forces is going in two big trends, first strengthening of strategic nuclear forces, giving a guarantee that no one country in this world will try to attack Russia,” said Aleksandr Golts, an independent military analyst in Moscow.
“俄罗斯武装力量的发展展现出了两种大趋势，首先是加强战略性的核力量，以保证世界上没有任何国家会产生攻击俄罗斯的念头，”莫斯科独立军事分析师亚历山大·戈尔茨(Aleksandr Golts)说。
“Second, the development of these rapid deployment forces,” he said, “to deal with any kind of local conflict, such as the war against Georgia, or this operation in Ukraine or anywhere.”
“其次，发展快速反应部队来处理所有地区冲突，比如俄格冲突，此次乌克兰的军事行动或其他地方的冲突，”他说。
“As a result of these reforms,” Mr. Golts added, “Russia now has absolute superiority over any country in the post-Soviet space.”
“经过这些改革，”戈尔茨还说，“俄罗斯现在的军事力量，相对其他前苏联国家有着绝对优势。”
One Western official who analyzes military forces in the region said the differences from the past were striking. “It does seem to us that they are much more professional this time around,” the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. “It’s impressive.”
一名分析该地区军事力量的西方官员称，这种变化非常惊人。“在我们看来，他们这次的表现的确专业了许多，”这名官员说。他因为未获公开发言的授权而要求匿名。“非常惊人。”
The transformation of the armed forces has been a personal priority of Mr. Putin, who as prime minister from 2009 to 2012 and more recently in his return to the presidency, has overseen billions of dollars in new military expenditures. The military was one of the few areas of the Russian budget to receive big spending increases, along with preparations for the Sochi Olympics, the 2018 World Cup and improvements to the railroad system, which is also a military asset.
普京个人一直把改革军队当做重中之重。他于2009年至2012年担任俄罗斯总理，近期又重回总统职位。在他的领导下，俄罗斯的军费开支增加了数十亿美元。在俄罗斯，军队是预算出现明显增加的少数几个领域之一，其他预算显著增加的领域还有索契奥运会(Sochi Olympics)的筹备、2018年世界杯(World Cup)，以及改善铁路系统，后者也是一种军事资源。
Since the start of 2012, salaries for most military personnel have roughly tripled, to between $700 and $1,150 a month for privates and sergeants — a respectable amount in Russian terms. The Kremlin has also expanded housing and education benefits.
自2012年年初，大多数军人的薪酬都增加了约三倍，列兵和士官的月薪增加到了700美元至1150美元不等——按照俄罗斯标准，这是一笔相当不错的收入。克里姆林宫还增加了住房和教育方面的福利。
In a speech to military officers in February shortly after the raises were enacted, Mr. Putin declared, “I have always believed that military servicemen should be paid, as has always been the case in Russia, by the way, even more than skilled specialists in the sphere of economics or administration or other civilian sectors.”
2月，在提高薪酬的政策实施不久以后，普京在对军官讲话时宣称，“我一直认为，军人的薪酬甚至应该高于经济、行政或其他文职领域的那些技术专家，当然，俄罗斯的情况也一直如此。”
The spectacular rise in military spending, which is expected to increase to about $100 billion in 2016 from about $80 billion this year, even as the economy shows signs of recession, was one of the main reasons that Russia’s respected finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, who was credited with steering Russia safely through the 2008 financial crisis, left the government in 2011.
尽管经济已经出现衰退迹象，但是据估计，俄罗斯2016年的军费开支将由今年的800亿美元增加到1000亿美元。这也是俄罗斯颇受尊敬的财政部长阿列克谢·L·库德林(Aleksei L. Kudrin)于2011年离开政府的一个主要原因。人们认为，是这位前财政部长带领俄罗斯安全度过了2008年的金融危机。
Mr. Putin has been unapologetic. He has repeatedly stressed that rebuilding the military is crucial to Russia’s future.
一直以来，普京并未显示任何悔意。他反复表示，重振军队对于俄罗斯的未来至关重要。
At his direction, a comprehensive, multiagency military strategy was developed for the first time, with ambitious goals that included bringing all units to permanent combat readiness and upgrading weapons systems.
根据他的命令，俄罗斯首次出台了一个全面的、涉及多部门的军事战略；其目标相当宏伟，包括要使所有部队永远处于战备状态及升级武器系统等内容。
The lightning-quick seizing of strategic installations and the surrounding of military bases in Crimea, including the base here in Perevalnoye, provided a clear show of the new Russian military’s capabilities.
俄罗斯军队闪电般地迅速占领了克里米亚的战略要地及附近的军事基地，包括位于佩列瓦利诺耶的军事基地，这有力地证明了新军的实力。
It was a sharp contrast to the brief war with Georgia in 2008, when Russia overwhelmed its much smaller foe on a tiny patch of ground, but also revealed the sorry state of its own forces — problems that stretched back to the two military campaigns in Chechnya. (In Georgia, Russian military vehicles were commonly seen broken down on the roads, cursing soldiers beside them.)
这与2008年俄罗斯和格鲁吉亚之间的短暂冲突形成了鲜明对比，当时，俄罗斯在一片狭小的战场击败了比他弱小得多的对手，但同时也暴露了其军队难以令人满意的一面——这些问题自从在车臣的两次军事行动后就一直存在。（在格鲁吉亚，常常可以看到俄罗斯军车在路上坏掉，士兵则在车子旁边骂骂咧咧。）
“First of all, there were communications problems, because the communication is the basis of troop management,” said Mikhail Khodaryonok, editor in chief of Military-Industrial Courier, a weekly newspaper focused on the Russian armed forces.
“首先，存在通讯问题，因为通讯是军队管理的基础，”主要报道俄罗斯武装部队的周报《军工信使》(Militray-Industrial Courier)的主编米哈伊尔 ·霍达尔诺克(Mikhail Khodaryonok)说。
“Problems with communications were so obvious that sharp measures were taken to improve all types of communications, including the confidential communication,” Mr. Khodaryonok said.
霍达尔诺克说，“通讯的问题是如此明显，以至于必须采取有力的手段，改善所有类型的通讯，包括保密通讯。”
The upgrade was visible down to the smallest unit levels in Crimea. Here at Perevalnoye, many soldiers on guard duty wore new push-to-talk encrypted radios — a piece of equipment long used by American soldiers but only recently provided to conventional Russian units.
升级带来的改变即使在克里米亚最小的部队单位都清晰可见。在佩列瓦利诺耶，许多站岗的士兵配有新的一按通式加密无线电通话设备——美国士兵长期以来一直在使用这种设备，但俄罗斯的常规部队直到前不久才用上它。
The Western official said the wide distribution of the encrypted radios suggested more than procurement. It might also mean that Russian noncommissioned officers were exercising more tactical latitude and decision-making, a deeper type of reform that could make Russian units more nimble and effective.
这名西方官员说，大范围发放加密无线电通话设备不光意味着要进行采购。它可能还意味着，俄罗斯的军士正在拥有更大的战略选择余地和决策权，这是一次更有深度的改革，可以让俄罗斯的军队更加灵活和富有战斗力。