With peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians set to resume on Monday night, Secretary of State John Kerry appointed a veteran Middle East hand to manage what are expected to be difficult negotiations: Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel.
鉴于巴以两国将于周一晚间重启和谈，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)委派了一名中东事务老手去处理这场预计将会十分艰难的谈判：前美国驻以色列大使马丁·S·因迪克(Martin S. Indyk)。
In a brief appearance at the State Department, Mr. Kerry urged Israelis and Palestinians to seek “reasonable compromise on tough, complicated, emotional and symbolic issues.”
在国务院(State Department)短暂露面时，克里敦促以色列人和巴勒斯坦人努力“就困难、复杂、充满感情色彩及象征意义的问题做出合理的妥协”。
While negotiating a Middle East peace agreement is widely seen as an uphill struggle, Mr. Kerry said “the consequences of not trying could be worse.”
人们普遍认为通过谈判签订中东和平协议是一件艰难的事情，但克里表示，“不尝试的结果会更糟”。
Mr. Indyk served two diplomatic tours as the American ambassador to Israel. He also served during the Clinton administration as assistant secretary of state for Near East affairs and worked on Middle East policy on the National Security Council.
因迪克曾两次担任美国驻以色列大使，曾在克林顿(Clinton )执政期间担任近东事务助理国务卿，还曾在国家安全委员会(National Security Council)研究中东政策。
Frank Lowenstein, Mr. Kerry’s longtime adviser on the Middle East, will serve as Mr. Indyk’s deputy.
克里的中东问题资深顾问弗兰克·洛温斯坦(Frank Lowenstein)将担任因迪克的副手。
Mr. Indyk, who is taking a leave from the Brookings Institution to assume his new role, told reporters that 15 years ago his son designed a screen saver for his computer that constantly flashed, “Dad, is there peace in the Middle East?”
即将离开布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)担任新职务的因迪克告诉记者，15年前，他的儿子为他的电脑设计了一个屏幕保护程序，屏幕上不断闪现的文字是，“爸爸，中东会和平吗？”
“For 15 years, I’ve only been able to answer him ‘not yet,’ ” Mr. Indyk said, adding that he hoped he would one day be able to say, “this time we actually made it.”
因迪克说，“15年来，我只能告诉他‘还不会’。”因迪克补充说，他希望有一天他能够说，“这一次，我们确实做到了。”
The last obstacle to resuming peace talks was overcome on Sunday when the Israeli cabinet voted to approve the release of 104 Palestinian prisoners, an unpopular move with many in Israel.
周日，以色列内阁投票支持释放104名巴勒斯坦囚犯，消除了重启和谈的最后障碍。但很多以色列人并不支持这一举措。
Mr. Kerry is hosting a working dinner on Monday night with Israeli and Palestinian negotiators, who will meet again on Tuesday before returning to the region.
克里将于周一晚间与以色列及巴勒斯坦的谈判代表举行工作晚宴。返回该地区前，双方代表将于周二再次会面。
The talks are initially expected to focus on procedural issues, including the location, schedule and format of negotiating sessions, before approaching the core issues of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
据估计，谈判重心最初会是地点、时间表、谈判会议的方式等程序性问题，之后再处理巴以冲突的核心问题。
The Israeli side will be represented by Tzipi Livni, Israel’s justice minister, and Isaac Molho, a special envoy to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. On the Palestinian side will be Saeb Erekat, the chief negotiator, and Mohammed Shtayyeh, a close adviser to Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.
以色列方面将以司法部长齐皮·利夫尼(Tzipi Livni)及内塔尼亚胡的特使伊萨克·莫尔霍(Isaac Molho)为代表。而巴勒斯坦则将派出首席谈判代表赛义卜·埃雷卡特(Saeb Erekat)和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)的亲密顾问穆罕默德·什塔伊耶赫(Mohammed Shtayyeh)。
The next round of talks would be held in the Middle East and would be managed for the United States side by Mr. Indyk.
下一轮谈判将在中东举行，美国方面的相关安排由因迪克负责。