SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine — The volatile confrontation over the future of Ukraine took another tense turn on Thursday as Russian allies here in Crimea sought annexation by Moscow and the United States imposed its first sanctions on Russian officials involved in the military occupation of the strategic peninsula.
乌克兰辛菲罗波尔——关于乌克兰未来走向的交锋反复不定。本周四，克里米亚的亲俄派别寻求加入俄罗斯，而对那些参与了向具有战略意义的克里米亚半岛实施军事占领的俄罗斯官员，美国也首次宣布了制裁，这种交锋由此愈加激烈。
While diplomats raced from meeting to meeting in an effort to end the standoff, European leaders signaled they might join American sanctions and Moscow threatened countermeasures as an already jittery situation was made edgier by the opening of new Russian military drills.
就在外交官们奔走在不同的会场，试图结束这种对峙的时候，欧洲领导人表示，他们可能会加入美国的对俄制裁行动，而莫斯科也威胁要采取对抗措施，与此同时，俄罗斯新启动的军事演习让已经紧张的局势雪上加霜。
The pro-Russian regional Parliament in Crimea crossed another red line set by the United States and Europe by voting to hold a referendum on whether to secede from Ukraine and become part of Russia. It scheduled the vote for March 16, hoping to win popular approval for the Russian military seizure of the region. But authorities in the Ukrainian capital of Kiev, backed by the United States and Europe, denounced the move.
亲俄的克里米亚地区议会越过了美国和欧洲划下的另一条红线，投票支持进行“脱乌入俄”的公投。这次公投定于3月16日举行，希望为俄罗斯军方正式占领该地区赢得民众的认可。但在乌克兰首都基辅，美国和欧洲支持的政府对此举进行了谴责。
Hours after issuing his first punitive actions against specific Russians, President Obama reached out to President Vladimir V. Putin in an hourlong telephone call emphasizing a diplomatic settlement. Mr. Obama urged Mr. Putin to authorize direct talks with Ukraine’s new pro-Western government, permit the entry of international monitors and return his forces here to their bases, according to the White House.
在首次批准对一些俄罗斯人采取惩罚性行动数小时之后，奥巴马打电话给普京，进行了长达一小时的通话，强调要达成一个外交解决方案。白宫表示，奥巴马在电话中敦促普京授权跟乌克兰亲西方的新政府展开直接谈判，允许国际观察员入境，并把俄罗斯部队撤回基地。
“Any discussion about the future of Ukraine must include the legitimate government of Ukraine,” Mr. Obama said in his only public remarks on the crisis on Thursday. “In 2014, we are well beyond the days when borders can be redrawn over the heads of democratic leaders.”
“关于乌克兰未来前景的任何讨论，必须有乌克兰合法政府的参与，”奥巴马在周四的讲话中说，这是他唯一一次公开谈到这场危机。“2014年，边界可以在民主领袖的脑海中重新划分的时代早已离我们远去。”
European Union leaders issued a statement in Brussels calling an annexation referendum “contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution and therefore illegal.”
欧盟领导人在布鲁塞尔发表声明，称入俄公投“违反乌克兰宪法，因此是非法的”。
The sanctions Mr. Obama approved Thursday imposed visa bans on officials and other individuals deemed responsible for undermining Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. The administration would not disclose the names or number of people penalized, but a senior official said privately that it would affect just under a dozen people, mostly Russians but some Ukrainians.
奥巴马本周四批准对包括一些官员在内的人进行“禁发签证”制裁，这些人被认为对破坏乌克兰主权和领土完整负有责任。奥巴马政府不会透露被制裁者的姓名或制裁的人数，但一名高级官员私下里说，被制裁的人最多十一二个，其中大多数是俄罗斯人，但也有几个乌克兰人。
Among those targeted were political figures, policy advisers, security officials and military officers who played a direct role in the Crimea crisis, the official said. Any of them seeking to travel to the United States would be barred, and a few who currently hold American visas will have them revoked. The list will grow in the days ahead as events warrant, officials said.
这位官员说，受到制裁的人中有政治人物、政策顾问、安全官员，以及在克里米亚危机中发挥直接作用的军官。他们全都会被禁止前往美国，有几个人目前持有的美国签证也将被注销。官员们表示，这个名单今后还会视情况增加其他人。
Mr. Obama also signed an executive order laying out a framework for tougher measures like freezing assets of individuals and institutions. But the White House held back applying those measures while officials gathered evidence in the hope that waiting would provide some space for Russia to reverse course. The House, in the meantime, approved an economic aid package for the Kiev government and advanced its own sanctions resolution.
奥巴马还签署了一项行政命令，它制定了一个框架，以便实施冻结个人和机构资产等更严厉的措施。但在官员们继续收集证据的同时，白宫现在还没有采取这些措施，希望留一些​​空间让俄罗斯逆转事态发展。与此同时，白宫还批准了一项为基辅政府提供经济援助的计划，并促使该政府制定自己的制裁决议。
Moscow, however, gave no indication of backing down, suggesting that it would reciprocate with measures seizing American property in Russia. “The U.S. has the right, and we have the right to respond to it,” Vladimir Lukin, a Russian envoy who has worked on the Ukraine crisis, told Interfax, the Russian news agency. “But all that is, of course, not making me happy.”
但是，莫斯科没有做出任何让步的表示，这表明它可能会以牙还牙，扣押美国人在俄罗斯的财产。“美国有那么做的权利，我们也有做出回应的权利，”参与处理乌克兰危机的俄罗斯特使弗拉基米尔·卢金(Vladimir Lukin)告诉俄罗斯新闻机构国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)。“但是，这种事情当然不会让我开心。”
The European Union took a step toward more serious measures by suspending talks with Moscow on a wide-ranging political-economic pact and on liberalizing visa requirements to make it easier for Russians to travel to Europe. European leaders laid out a three-stage process that, absent progress, would next move to travel bans, asset seizures and the cancellation of a planned E.U.-Russia summit meeting and eventually to broader economic measures.
欧盟采取了一个更加严厉的举措：暂停与莫斯科针对一系列广泛的政治经济协议，以及为了让俄罗斯人更容易前往欧洲而放宽签证要求而举行的会谈。欧洲领导人制定了一个三阶段过程，如果第一步缺乏进展，接下来就将实施旅行禁令、进行资产扣押、取消计划中的欧盟-俄罗斯峰会，并最终采取更广泛的经济制裁措施。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who has been reluctant to move quickly toward sanctions, said the European Union was looking for concrete evidence that Russia was trying to calm the situation “in the next few days,” but she noted that Thursday’s events in Crimea made the need for action more urgent.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)一直不愿意太快采取制裁措施。她说，欧盟正在寻找确凿证据，证明俄罗斯正试图“在未来几天”平息态势，但她指出，周四发生在克里米亚的事件令采取行动的需要变得更加迫切。
“We made it very clear that we are absolutely willing to achieve matters by negotiation,” she said. “We also say, however, that we are ready and willing, if these hopes were to be dashed and looking at what happened on Crimea, to adopt sanctions.”
她说，“我们已经表明，我们完全愿意通过谈判达成事项。但我们也说过，如果上述希望破灭，根据克里米亚的情况，我们也准备好了，而且愿意实施制裁。”
The moves came as Secretary of State John Kerry met for a second day with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, on ways to defuse the Ukraine crisis. A top aide said Mr. Kerry urged Mr. Lavrov to talk directly with Ukrainian leaders. “We want to be able to have the dialogue that leads to the de-escalation,” Mr. Kerry told reporters. “We want to be able to continue the intense discussions with both sides in order to try to normalize and end this crisis.”
在采取这些行动的同时，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)连续第二天与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)举行会晤，讨论化解乌克兰危机的方式。一名高级助手说，克里敦促拉夫罗夫直接与乌克兰领导人对话。克里对记者说，“我们想要通过对话阻止危机升级。我们想要继续与双方进行密集的讨论，从而实现正常化，结束危机。”
In Crimea, regional leaders said they were confident voters would choose Russia over Ukraine. The City Council of Sevastopol, which has separate legal status, took matching steps on Thursday to hold a similar referendum on March 16. Pro-Russian demonstrators cheered the news and regarded secession from Ukraine as a foregone conclusion.
克里米亚的地区领导人说，他们相信选民会选择俄罗斯，而不是乌克兰。拥有独立法律地位的塞瓦斯托波尔市议会周四采取了相应的步骤，决定将在3月16日举行一次类似的全民公投。亲俄罗斯的抗议者对这个消息表示欢迎，他们认为，克里米亚脱离乌克兰将是预料之中的必然结局。
“We’re already Russian,” Natasha Malachuk said as she picketed a local security headquarters.
娜塔莎·马拉查克(Natasha Malachuk)在当地安全部门的办公大楼抗议时说，“我们本来就是俄罗斯人。”
Another protester, Vyacheslav Tokarev, declared, “We’re citizens of Russia; we’re returning home.”
另一名抗议者维亚切斯拉夫·托卡列夫(Vyacheslav Tokarev)表示，“我们是俄罗斯公民；我们要回到我们的国家。”
Others objected, particularly the peninsula’s large Crimean Tatar minority. “It’s completely illegitimate,” said Bilal Kuzi-Emin, 25, a Tatar who works as a waiter. “Why don’t we just join Turkey?”
另外一些人则表示反对，尤其是克里米亚大量的鞑靼少数民族。25岁的鞑靼族餐厅服务生比拉勒·库齐-埃明(Bilal Kuzi-Emin)说，“这完全是非法的。那我们怎么不加入土耳其呢？”
A Kiev court has already ruled the Crimean Parliament’s actions illegal. An arrest warrant has been issued for the new regional prime minister, Sergei Aksyonov, who was installed a week ago after armed men seized the Parliament building and raised the Russian flag.
基辅的一家法院已经判决克里米亚议会的行动违法。对新地区总理谢尔盖·阿克肖诺夫(Sergei Aksyonov)的逮捕令已经发出。阿克肖诺夫是在一周前武装分子占领议会大楼、升起俄罗斯国旗之后被任命的。
Ukraine’s acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, scoffed at a planned referendum under the watch of foreign troops. “This will be a farce,” he said in a televised address. “This will be false. This will be a crime against the state.”
乌克兰代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)对计划在外国军队监视下进行的公投进行了嘲讽。他在电视演讲中说，“这将是一场闹剧。这是不真实的。这将是对国家的犯罪。”
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for Mr. Putin, said the Kremlin had been informed of the developments but offered no further comment. Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev said Russia would simplify procedures for people who have lived in Russia or the former Soviet Union to secure Russian citizenship.
普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科(Dmitri S. Peskov)说，克里姆林宫已经了解到局势最新进展，但是没有进一步置评。俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)说，俄罗斯会为曾在俄罗斯或前苏联居住过的人简化入籍程序。
If the referendum is held and most Crimeans opt to join Russia, it could create a thorny problem for the United States and European countries that typically support self-determination but oppose independence for regions in their own borders, like Scotland or Catalonia. Russia points to the example of Kosovo, which was welcomed by the West as an independent nation without support from Serbia’s central government.
如果举行公投，大多数克里米亚人选择加入俄罗斯，这将为美国和欧洲国家制造一个棘手的问题。这些国家一般支持自决，但反对本国境内的地区独立，比如苏格兰或加泰罗尼亚。俄罗斯提到了科索沃的例子，西方曾支持科索沃不取得塞尔维亚中央政府支持的情况下独立。