SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine — Since Saturday, the headquarters of the government of Crimea — an autonomous region of Ukraine — have been occupied by special forces whose uniforms are unmarked but whose identity is a mystery to no one here.
乌克兰辛菲罗波尔——上周六以来，乌克兰的自治区克里米亚的政府总部就被特种部队占领。尽管他们的军服上没有任何标记，但是在这里，没人不知道他们的身份。
The new regional government of Crimea, now led by a pro-Russian prime minister who was installed last week although he has little popular support, says that Crimean Russians need protection from the new “fascist” interim government in Kiev.
克里米亚新的地方政府现在由一个亲俄罗斯的总理领导。该人几乎毫无民众支持，上周才被安排到这个职位上。他说，面对着基辅“法西斯主义”的新临时政府，克里米亚的俄罗斯族需要保护。
But these leaders do not speak for the people of Crimea. I am an ethnic Ukrainian (and a native speaker of both Ukrainian and Russian) but I live and work alongside many ethnic Russians. They never asked for a Russian invasion and do not need the “protection” that is being offered.
然而这些领导人并不能代表克里米亚民众。我是乌克兰族，乌克兰语和俄语都是我的母语，我与很多俄罗斯族人共同生活和工作。他们从来没有邀请俄罗斯入侵，也不需要俄罗斯提供的“保护”。
The dominant mood here in Crimea – even among local Russian-speaking intellectuals who have been vocal in defense of their linguistic rights and cultural identity – is not joy, but fear.
克里米亚的主导情绪并不是喜悦，而是恐惧。就连本地讲俄语的知识分子也是如此，尽管他们一直积极捍卫着自身的语言权利和文化认同。
The majority of Crimean Russians did not want to see Russian tanks and troops in the streets. They understand that if the occupation continues, it may undermine their livelihood. Crimea is a tourist destination; the incomes and well-being of many of its inhabitants depend on revenues from the peak travel season, when vacationers come to the Black Sea for relaxation. They cannot live on rations from the Russian military. And they know that Crimea could not be economically sustained without the rest of Ukraine, which supplies the region with electricity and water.
在克里米亚的俄罗斯族中，大多数人并不希望在街头见到俄罗斯的坦克和士兵。他们理解，如果占领持续下去，可能就会破坏自己的生计。克里米亚是一个旅游目的地，许多克里米亚居民的收入和生活水准都依赖于旅游旺季的进账，那时许多度假的游客都会来到黑海放松。他们不可能靠俄罗斯军队配给的物资活着，他们也知道如果离开了乌克兰其他地区，克里米亚经济无法维系，因为这里的电和水要靠乌克兰供应。
It’s true that Russians in Crimea and in southeastern Ukraine were angered by a clumsy and reckless law removing Russian as one of the two national languages of Ukraine, a law passed during the post-revolutionary fever that followed the overthrow of President Viktor F. Yanukovych. But the interim government in Kiev has already rescinded the law. So what is it that Crimean Russians need “protection” from?
那项把俄语从乌克兰的两种官方语言中去除的法律既拙劣又鲁莽，的确触怒了克里米亚和乌克兰东南部的俄罗斯族。那项法律是乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)被推翻后，在革命胜利的狂热情绪推动下颁布的。不过基辅的临时政府已经撤销了那项法律，那么需要“保护”克里米亚俄罗斯族的原因是什么呢？
Crimeans have been able to see firsthand the corrupt legacy of Mr. Yanukovych, who when he fled his presidential palace left unbuilt a decadent dacha on the Black Sea coast. Mr. Yanukovych and his son, Oleksandr, had taken over properties across Crimea to build luxury homes and set up businesses under the president’s control and for his benefit. Using unscrupulous methods, they barred ordinary Ukrainians from visiting beaches, nature reserves and other places, depriving them of access to land that is public property.
克里米亚人能第一手地看到亚努科维奇的腐败印记，他在逃离总统官邸之后，在黑海海滨留下了一座烂尾的奢侈别墅。亚努科维奇和他的儿子奥列克桑德尔(Oleksandr)在克里米亚各地夺取地产，建造奢侈的住宅或经营生意，由总统控制或为他谋利。他们运用卑劣的手段，禁止普通乌克兰人造访海滨、自然保护区和其他地点，剥夺他们进入本来属于公众财产的土地的权利。
If Crimea becomes a Russian protectorate, it will destroy any chance of fighting the widespread corruption that Mr. Yanukovych represented.
如果克里米亚成为俄罗斯的保护国，打击亚努科维奇所代表的那种大范围腐败的任何可能性都会烟消云散。
Before the Russian military onslaught over the weekend, many Crimeans — ethnic Russians, Ukrainians and Tatars — boarded trains or flights to Kiev.
在俄罗斯周末进军之前，许多克里米亚人——包括俄罗斯族、乌克兰族和鞑靼族——登上火车和飞机，前往基辅。
Using online social networks, they have established support groups to help other Crimeans — no matter what their ethnicity — plan their escape.
他们通过在线的社交网络，建立了互助小组，帮助不管什么民族的其他克里米亚人做出逃离计划。
The feeling of insecurity is widespread here. Pro-Ukraine activist groups are debating whether to flee or to fight. To the disdain of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, these groups are mainly composed of ethnic Russians. They fear that if they stay behind, they will be helpless as peaceful protest is ruthlessly squashed and they will later be smeared as “traitors.” The Internet remains their only lifeline to the free world. Will boats soon be crossing the stormy waters of the Black Sea over to Turkey – as they did when desperate people tried to escape from behind the Iron Curtain during the Soviet era?
这里四处弥漫着不安全感，亲乌克兰的活动团体正在辩论，是该逃离还是该斗争。这些团体主要是俄罗斯族组成的，而这恐怕会让俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)感到不快。他们担心，如果留在克里米亚，随着和平示威遭到无情镇压，他们会陷入无助的境地，之后还会被污蔑成“叛徒”。互联网成了他们接触自由世界的唯一途径。不久，会不会有小船穿过黑海风暴交加的水面，前往土耳其呢——就像苏联时代走投无路的民众，试图穿越铁幕逃亡时所做的那样？
One group that will undoubtedly stay here and stand fast for its rights is Ukraine’s large Muslim population, the Crimean Tatars. They have their own language and culture. In 1944, the Stalin regime mercilessly uprooted this population, dispersing it to Central Asia on military transports. Starting in the Gorbachev era, the children and grandchildren of these displaced Tatars started coming home, and they now account for some 300,000 of the two million people in Crimea. Painful memories of forced exile continue to haunt their collective memory.
有一群人毫无疑问会留在这里，坚守自己的权利，他们就是乌克兰最大的穆斯林族群，克里米亚鞑靼人，他们有自己的语言和文化。1944年，斯大林政权残忍地把这个族群连根拔起，用军方的运输手段将他们分散地送往中亚地区。从戈尔巴乔夫时代开始，离散鞑靼人的子孙开始回家，现在在拥有200万人口的克里米亚，大约有30万名鞑靼人。被迫流放的痛苦回忆，仍然萦绕在他们的集体记忆中。