TACLOBAN, the Philippines — After touring miles of roofless homes and shattered shantytowns destroyed by one of the most powerful storms ever recorded, Secretary of State John Kerry on Wednesday announced that additional American humanitarian aid would be sent to the Philippines and described the giant typhoon as a warning of future extreme weather in a warming world.
菲律宾塔克洛班——周三，走访了数英里没有房顶的房屋和损毁严重的棚户区以后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)宣布美国将为菲律宾提供额外的人道主义援助，并称在全球变暖的情况下，这次大台风是关于未来极端天气的一个警告。菲律宾的灾情是一场强度居史上前列的暴风雨造成的。
“No words can do justice to the level of destruction we’ve seen in this entire community,” Mr. Kerry said. “This is a devastation that is unlike anything I’ve seen at this kind of scale.”
“没有任何语言能准确描述我们在这一整片社区见到的毁坏程度，”克里说。“破坏的程度与规模如此之大，我从来都没见过。”
An initial severe shortage of food and clean water in the first two weeks after Typhoon Haiyan made landfall on Nov. 8 has largely been alleviated. But four million people lost their homes to towering storm surge waves or gusts reaching 200 miles per hour, and the effort to rebuild them has barely begun.
台风“海燕”于11月8日登陆，其后两周出现了食物和干净水源严重缺乏的状况，现已基本得到缓解。但是，有400万人因为巨浪或时速高达200英里（约合322公里）的强风失去了自己的家园，重建工作却几乎没有开始。
The Philippine government raised the official death toll on Wednesday to 6,069, with 27,665 injured and 1,779 missing. But local officials say the number of dead will continue to rise as more bodies are uncovered in the debris.
周三，菲律宾公布的官方死亡人数已升至6069，另有27665人受伤，1779人失踪。但地方官员说，随着人们从废墟中找出更多的尸体，死亡人数还会上升。
Running water has been restored in some central areas of Tacloban but is still not available across large areas of devastated Leyte and Samar Islands. Full electricity service will take months to restore.
塔克洛班的一些中心区域已经恢复供水，受灾严重的莱特和萨马岛的大片地区却仍然处于断水状态。完全恢复供电将需要几个月的时间。
Mr. Kerry acknowledged the difficulty of applying climate science to any single meteorological event, but cited the destruction here as a caution about what could happen if the world does not limit emissions of greenhouse gases.
克里承认，把气候科学应用于任何单个气象事件都不容易，但他以塔克洛班的灾情为例提醒人们，如果不限制温室气体排放，就会产生严重后果。
“While no single storm can be attributed to climate change, we do know to a certainty that rising temperatures will lead to longer and more unpredictable monsoon seasons and will lead to more extreme weather events,” Mr. Kerry said. “Looking around here, you see an unmistakable example of what an extreme weather event looks like, and a reminder of our responsibility to act to protect the future.”
“虽然不能把单独的一场暴风雨归咎于气候变化，但我们确实知道，气温升高将导致季风季节持续时间更长、更难以预料，从而导致更极端的天气事件，”克里说。“看看这里，你就能清楚地看到极端天气事件会是什么模样，这个例子也是一个提醒，那就是我们有责任采取行动保护未来。”
Saying that Tacloban still looked like a war zone despite nearly six weeks of recovery efforts, Mr. Kerry announced that Washington would donate $24.6 million immediately for typhoon relief on top of the $62 million in aid already supplied by the United States. He said t the United States would consider further requests for relief from a reconstruction planning effort now underway in Manila, the capital.
克里说，虽然恢复工作已经进行了将近六周，但塔克洛班看起来仍像是一个战场。他随即宣布，华盛顿将立即捐款2460万美元（约合1.5亿元人民币）用于救援工作，此前美国已经提供了6200万美元的援助。他表示，美国也会考虑菲律宾首都马尼拉正在进行的重建工作所需的进一步救援要求。
President Benigno S. Aquino III of the Philippines said in a speech in Manila on Wednesday that the typhoon had inflicted $12.9 billion in damage and economic losses. He predicted that the rebuilding of the devastated region would last through 2017.
周三，菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)在马尼拉的一次演讲中说，台风带来的破坏和经济损失共计129亿美元。他预计，灾区重建工作将持续到2017年。
As part of a conference in Geneva on Monday that focused mainly on the need for humanitarian relief for refugees from Syria but included other crises around the globe, the United Nations requested $791 million to help typhoon victims, and said it had been able to raise only 30 percent of the money so far. The United Nations and the Red Cross have urgently appealed to foreign countries for four million heavy-duty corrugated steel sheets needed to replace roofs, as the Philippines has already used up most of the 120,000 it had in stock and has very limited ability to manufacture more.
周一在日内瓦举行的会议关注的主要是叙利亚难民的人道主义援助需求，但也包括世界各地其他危机的救援需求，联合国(United Nations)在会上要求向台风受害者提供7.91亿美元的援助，并表示目前只筹到了这笔资金的30%。联合国和红十字会(Red Cross)已向其他国家发出紧急呼吁，要求提供400万张高强度瓦棱钢板来替换被摧毁的屋顶，因为菲律宾几乎用完了库存的12万张，制造钢板的能力也很有限。
The government has updated the death toll daily, but has left the number of missing unchanged for more than two weeks. Tacloban, a sprawling city of nearly 500,000 permanent and temporary residents, has a single small office to accept missing-person reports, and many residents said in interviews here over the last two weeks that they were not even aware that it existed.
菲律宾政府每天都在更新死亡数字，但两周多以来，公布的失踪人数并无变化。面积广大的塔克洛班市拥有将近50万名永久和临时居民，但却只有一个小办公室负责接收失踪人口报告。过去两周，许多居民都在采访中表示，他们根本不知道还有一个这样的办公室。
Benjoe Cabacaba, a resident of the coastal San Jose neighborhood, said on Wednesday that his parents, his father-in-law, two sisters, a cousin, a close friend and six nieces and nephews had all vanished when storm surge waves as high as the coconut palms had crashed over their homes. Nobody has reported any of them missing, Mr. Cabacaba said, adding that he did not know if their bodies had ended up in a mass grave for the unidentified dead or were among the many swept out to sea and never seen again.
周三，海滨街区圣何塞的居民本约·卡巴卡巴(Benjoe Cabacaba)表示，高如椰树的风暴潮席卷他们住所的时候，他的父母、岳父、两个姐妹、一名表亲、一个好朋友及六个侄子和侄女都消失了。卡巴卡巴表示，没有人去报告他们的失踪，并且补充说，他不知道他们的尸体是被人送进了安葬不明身份死者的集体墓穴，还是被海浪卷走，再也见不到了。
“We don’t know what to do” to report family members as missing, he said. “We can barely find food to eat on a daily basis — all my focus is on getting enough food for my family. It’s the same for everyone here.”
“我们不知道该如何”上报家中的失踪人员，他说。“我们勉强能找到每天的食物——我一心只想为家人找到足够的食物。这里的每个人都是这样。”
Jerry Yaokasin, the deputy mayor of Tacloban, said there was a strong reluctance at all levels of government to acknowledge the full death toll, but declined to discuss the reasons.
塔克洛班市副市长杰里·尧卡辛(Jerry Yaokasin)表示，各级政府都极不情愿确认全部的死亡人数，但他拒绝谈论原因。
The Philippine government considerably underestimated the death toll, particularly in the early days. Mr. Aquino said right after the typhoon hit that the death toll was likely to be 2,000 to 2,500.
菲律宾政府大大低估了死亡人数，特别是在灾后初期。台风刚刚结束时，阿基诺曾表示，死亡人数可能在2000至2500人之间。
The government initially sent only 2,000 soldiers to Leyte Island, where virtually all one and a half million people lost their homes and more than 5,000 died. The troops were unable to restore order for nearly a week as looting paralyzed Philippine cities, Tacloban in particular.
政府起初只派了2000名士兵前往莱特岛，而莱特岛的150万人全都失去了家园，并有5000多人死亡。军队在将近一周的时间里无法恢复秩序，洗劫使得菲律宾的一些城市陷入瘫痪，特别是塔克洛班。
An international outcry over the scale of the devastation, prompted by extensive news media reports, led the Philippines to expand its effort considerably. It acted to some extent after the United States had already begun pouring troops and aircraft into the area and installed a much-needed mobile air traffic control unit at the shattered airport.
新闻媒体对此次台风进行了广泛报道，由此而来的对破坏规模的深切国际关注促使菲律宾大幅增加救援力度。在美国开始派遣部队及飞机进入该地区、在受损机场设立急需的流动空中交通管制部门之后，菲律宾才做出了某种程度的努力。
Mayor Alfred Romualdez of Tacloban told Mr. Kerry that some older residents of the city, after seeing the American military’s extensive deployment of soldiers and aircraft here to bring in relief goods, said, “The last time we experienced something like this was when the Americans landed during the war.” American and Filipino troops led by Gen. Douglas MacArthur stormed the beaches of Tacloban in an amphibious assault in 1944 that began the liberation of the Philippines from Japanese rule during World War II.
塔克洛班市长阿尔弗雷德·罗穆亚尔德斯(Alfred Romualdez)告诉克里，看到美国军队派大量士兵及飞机送来救援物资之后，一些年长市民表示，“我们上一次经历此类事情，还是美国人在战争期间登陆的时候。” 1944年，由道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟上将(Gen. Douglas MacArthur)率领的美国及菲律宾部队在两栖突击行动中冲上塔克洛班的海滩，开始帮助菲律宾摆脱日本在二战期间对该国的统治。
Mr. Aquino and Mr. Romualdez both spoke of building more typhoon-resilient communities to prepare for a climate that may produce more powerful storms in the future. Mr. Kerry said in a brief interview after his tour of Tacloban, “There are all kinds of signs, all signaling serious impacts from long-term climate change.”
阿基诺和罗穆亚尔德斯都提到要建设抗台风能力更强的社区，以便应对可能会在未来产生更多强力风暴的气候。参观完塔克洛班后，克里在简短的采访中表示，“这里有各种各样的迹象，都说明了长期气候变化带来的严重后果。”
Yet many residents here are already rebuilding on sites that were flattened by the storm surge during Typhoon Haiyan, despite threats by local and national officials to declare oceanfront sites as no-build zones.
尽管当地及国家官员威胁要将海滨地区宣布为非建设区，很多居民却已经开始在原地重建家园。台风“海燕”侵袭期间，风暴潮已将他们的住所夷为平地。
On a recent afternoon, Pio Canayong, 30, was rebuilding his grandparents’ home, which lay more than 50 yards from the shore but where little remained except an orange tile floor. Numerous squatter huts are also being rebuilt between the remains of the Canayong family home and the water’s edge.
不久前的一个下午，30岁的皮奥·卡纳扬(Canayong)正在重建祖父母的住所。这所房子距离海岸50码（约合46米），除了桔色的地板砖，几乎没留下什么。其他人也正在卡纳扬家的废墟和海岸之间重建大量寮屋。
Incongruously sitting further inland than all the construction is a 140-foot ocean freighter that careened through the original buildings during the storm surge. Mr. Canayong described how the freighter demolished the house and killed two of his grandparents in front of him as he dived to safety in front of the ship’s bow. His mother and four siblings also died.
一艘140英尺（约合42.7米）长的远洋货轮搁浅在比这些工地更深入内陆的地方，显得十分不协调。这艘货轮在风暴潮中倾侧着穿过了原有房屋。卡纳扬讲述了这艘货轮如何撞毁房子，致使祖父母在他面前丧生，当时他扎到了船头前方的水下，得以逃生。他的母亲和四个兄弟姐妹也已丧生。
Mr. Canayong was nonetheless gathering materials to rebuild, saying that the land was his family’s sole remaining possession. “I don’t want to move away,” he said.
尽管如此，卡纳扬还是在搜集重建家园的材料。他表示，这块土地是他家剩下的唯一财产。他说，“我不想搬走。”