SEOUL, South Korea — Secretary of State John Kerry on Monday called for increased international pressure on the government of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, berating the country’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and its “horrendous” executions of people close to the leader.
韩国首尔——周一，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)呼吁国际社会对朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)加大压力，并严厉谴责朝鲜追求核武器的做法，以及用“骇人”的手段处决与领袖关系紧密的人物的举动。
“The world is hearing increasingly more and more stories of grotesque, grisly, horrendous, public displays of executions on a whim and fancy by the leader against people who were close to him, sometimes on the flimsiest of excuses,” Mr. Kerry said, referring to Mr. Kim, during a news conference in Seoul, the capital of South Korea.
“这位领导人随心所欲地用怪诞、恐怖、骇人的方式公开处决与自己关系密切的人，有时候完全是以非常牵强的借口——全世界听到了越来越多的此类消息，”克里在韩国首都首尔的新闻发布会上说。他指的是金正恩。
Mr. Kerry made the comment in response to a recent report that Mr. Kim had ordered one of his top generals, the minister of the People’s Armed Forces, Hyon Yong-chol, executed with an antiaircraft gun for disloyalty. General Hyon was accused, among other crimes, of dozing off during a meeting Mr. Kim presided over, the National Intelligence Service of South Korea said last week.
克里的此番言论是对最近一篇报道的回应。该报道称，金正恩以不忠为由，下令用高射炮处决了他手下的高级将领、朝鲜人民武装力量部(People’s Armed Forces)部长玄永哲(Hyon Yong-chol)。韩国国家情院(National Intelligence Service)上周称，玄永哲被控的罪名包括在金正恩主持的一次会议上打瞌睡。
Mr. Kerry called Mr. Kim’s government “one of the most egregious examples of reckless disregard for human rights and human beings anywhere on the planet.” He added that Mr. Kim’s behavior only increased the likelihood that he would face charges at the International Criminal Court.
克里称金正恩领导的政府是“世界上悍然罔顾人权和人性的最令人发指的例子之一”。他接着表示，金正恩的行为只会加大自己在国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)被起诉的可能性。
Last year, a United Nations panel recommended that its Security Council refer Mr. Kim to the International Criminal Court over human rights violations like operating prison gulags, where the panel said hunger, torture and arbitrary executions were widespread.
去年，联合国的一个委员会就曾建议，安理会应就设立劳改营等侵犯人权的行为，在国际刑事法院起诉金正恩。该委员会称劳改营里饥饿、刑讯逼供和任意处决的现象很普遍。
“That is why it is important for us to ramp up international pressure on North Korea to change its behavior,” Mr. Kerry said during the joint news conference with his South Korean counterpart, Yun Byung-se.
“正因为如此，我们加大对朝鲜的国际压力，迫使其改变行为方式才有重要意义，”克里在与韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)举行联合新闻发布会时说。
“If their horrific conduct continues, it is hard to see how that referral to the criminal court would not take place.”
“如果这种骇人行径持续下去，很难说不会把他们起诉到国际刑事法院。”
Mr. Kerry said that Washington and its allies would maintain “principled diplomacy” on North Korea, saying that Washington would try to improve ties with North Korea only if it demonstrated “genuine willingness” to address international concern over its nuclear and missile programs and its “atrocities against its own people.”
克里表示华盛顿及其盟友在朝鲜问题上会坚持“有原则的外交”，称只有朝鲜表现出“真正的意愿”来解决国际社会对其核计划、导弹计划，及“针对本国人民的暴行”的关切，华盛顿才会试着改善与朝鲜的关系。
Given the recent reports of executions in North Korea and the testing of a submarine-launched missile, “it is clear that the D.P.R.K. has not even come close to meeting that standard,” Mr. Kerry said, using the initials for the North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
鉴于最近关于朝鲜处决事件及潜射弹道导弹试射的报道，“显然DPRK离满足这个标准还有很远，”克里说。DPRK是该国的正式名称朝鲜民主主义人民共和国(Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)的简称。
His tough words came as the United States and its allies have been working together with China, North Korea’s major ally, to find a way to resume six-nation talks aimed at negotiating an end to the North’s nuclear weapons program.
克里作出上述强硬表态之际，美国及其盟友已在同朝鲜主要的盟友中国携手，试图找到重启六方会谈的途径。六方会谈旨在通过谈判结束朝鲜的核武计划。
The six-nation talks, which also involved South Korea, Japan and Russia, have been suspended since 2008. In the interim, fear has been growing that the North has been increasing its stockpile of plutonium and uranium fuel for nuclear weapons, as well as making progress toward building an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of delivering a nuclear warhead.
还包括韩国、日本和俄罗斯的六方会谈，从2008年开始就陷入了停滞。在这期间，外界的担忧日渐加剧，认为朝鲜一直在储备用于制造核武器的钚和铀燃料，而且在制造能够搭载核弹头的洲际弹道导弹方面，也在不断取得进展。
Mr. Kerry said the United States was not interested in having “talks for the sake of talks” with Mr. Kim’s government. Instead, he said that Washington and China, as well as American allies, were discussing “ways to increase the pressure and increase the potential of either sanctions or other means to make it clear to him that he is on a very dangerous course.”
克里称，美国无意同金正恩领导的政府“为了谈判而谈判”。相反，他说华盛顿正在同中国以及美国的盟友商讨“用什么办法加压，并提高采取制裁或其他措施的可能性，以便让他明白自己处在非常危险的道路上”。
“No one should be under any illusion,” he said. “This is an individual who has said no to every effort to reach out and find a reasonable way forward.”
“谁都不应该抱任何幻想，”他说。“这个人拒绝了沟通并找到合理解决方案的一切尝试。”
North Korea did not immediately react to Mr. Kerry’s comment on Monday. In the past, it has been particularly sensitive about the kind of direct American criticism of its leadership that Mr. Kerry delivered.
朝鲜没有立即对克里周一的言论做出反应。过去，朝鲜对美国像克里这样，直接针对其领导层的批评特别敏感。
Mr. Kerry’s trip to Seoul, which followed his talks in Beijing over the weekend, was partly to lay the groundwork for a visit to Washington in June by President Park Geun-hye of South Korea.
克里是周末在北京出席了多场会谈后前往首尔的。他的首尔之行，部分是为韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)今年6月访问华盛顿做准备。