WASHINGTON — They wanted to break away from a country they considered hostile. The central government cried foul, calling it a violation of international law. But with the help of a powerful foreign military, they succeeded in severing ties.
华盛顿——他们想从这个在他们看来怀有敌意的国家脱离出去。中央政府高声制止，说这种行为违反了国际法。但是，在一支强大的外国军队的帮助下，他们成功地切断了联系。
The Kosovars’ secession from Serbia in 1999 drove a deep wedge between the United States and Russia that soured relations for years. Washington supported Kosovo’s bid for independence, culminating in 2008, while Moscow saw it as an infringement of Serbia’s sovereignty.
1999年，科索沃从塞尔维亚独立出去的事情在美国和俄罗斯之间引起了深刻的矛盾，两国关系的恶化因此持续了数年之久。科索沃的独立要求在2008年实现，华盛顿对这种诉求表示支持，而在莫斯科看来，这种做法是对塞尔维亚主权的侵犯。
Now 15 years later, the former Cold War rivals again find themselves at odds, but this time they have effectively switched sides: Russia loudly proclaims Crimea’s right to break off from Ukraine while the United States calls it illegitimate. The showdown in Ukraine has revived a centuries-old debate over the right of self-determination versus the territorial integrity of nation-states.
在15年后的今天，这对冷战冤家再次出现矛盾，但这次他们迅速地交换了立场：俄罗斯大力宣扬克里米亚有权从乌克兰独立出去，而美国则称这种举动并不正当。双方在乌克兰问题上的对峙，再次提出了关于民族自决和国家领土完整的争论，而这项争论已经持续了几百年之久。
The clash in Crimea is hardly an exact parallel of the Kosovo episode, especially with Russian troops occupying the peninsula as it calls a March 16 referendum to dissolve ties with Ukraine and rejoin Russia. Though the United States intervened militarily in Kosovo, it did not do so to take the territory for itself. But the current case underscores once again that for all of the articulation of grand principles, the acceptability of regions breaking away often depends on the circumstances.
克里米亚的冲突与科索沃事件并非完全一致，尤其是当俄罗斯要求在3月16日通过公决来解除克里米亚与乌克兰的关系，让其重新加入俄罗斯时，俄罗斯军队已经进驻克里米亚半岛。虽然美国对科索沃进行了军事干预，但是它这样做并不是为了将科索沃据为己有。然而，目前的情况再次表明，虽然人们一直在强调所谓的宏大原则，但对于某个地区能否独立出去，各国的接受程度往往还是要视具体情况而定。
Consider the different American views of recent bids for independence.
看看美国近年来对各地区独立诉求的不同态度：
Chechnya? No.
车臣？不行。
East Timor? Yes.
东帝汶？可以。
Abkhazia? No.
阿布哈兹？不行。
South Sudan? Yes.
南苏丹？可以。
Palestine? It’s complicated.
巴勒斯坦？情况很复杂。
It is an acutely delicate subject in the West, where Britain wants to keep Scotland and Spain wants to keep Catalonia. The United States, after all, was born in revolution, breaking away from London without consent of the national government — something that the Obama administration insists Crimea must have. The young American union later fought a civil war to keep the South from breaking away. Even today, there is occasional fringe talk of secession in Texas.
这在西方是一个非常敏感的问题。英国不希望苏格兰独立，西班牙不想让加泰罗尼亚独立。毕竟，美国也是通过革命诞生的，它脱离伦敦的政府独立时，也没有征得中央政府的同意——可奥巴马政府却坚持认为，克里米亚的独立必须经过中央政府同意。后来，年轻的美国又打了一场内战，目的就是不让南方独立出去。即便现在，德克萨斯州仍会偶尔谈论独立问题。
“No state has been consistent in its application of this,” said Samuel Charap, a Russia specialist at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. During a trip he took to Moscow last week, Mr. Charap said, Kosovo was the precedent cited repeatedly by Russians defending the Crimea intervention. “It’s like, ‘You guys do the same thing. You’re no better. You’re no different.’ ”
“没有哪个国家会在这个问题上一直保持同样的立场，”国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)的俄罗斯问题专家塞缪尔·查拉普(Samuel Charap)说。上周，查拉普在莫斯科时说，俄罗斯在为自己干涉克里米亚局势的行为辩护时，反复提到了科索沃这个先例。“就好像在说，‘你们就是这么干的。你们也好不到哪里去。你们也没什么不同。’”
Russian officials have likewise cited Scotland, which will soon vote on whether to remain in the United Kingdom, as another example. But American officials note that no foreign power sent troops into Edinburgh to replace its local government and stage a vote days later under the barrel of a gun. The Kremlin, they argue, is trying to legitimize an invasion and a land grab with false comparisons to situations like Kosovo.
俄罗斯还举例说明，提到了即将就是否要从英国独立出去进行投票的苏格兰。但美国官员指出，没有哪一个国家曾派遣军队进驻爱丁堡来取代当地政府，然后安排几年后在重兵把守之下举行投票。他们认为，克里姆林宫是在尝试用科索沃的局势做一个不恰当的比较，来给自己出兵他国及强占领土的行为披上合法的外衣。
“It’s apples and oranges,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, President Obama’s deputy national security adviser. “You can’t ignore the context that this is taking place days after the violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. It’s not a permissive environment for people to make up their own minds.”
“它们根本完全不同，”奥巴马总统的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“你不能忽视其来龙去脉，这件事发生在乌克兰的主权和领土完整受到侵犯的几天后。这并不是个能让人们自己做决定的自由环境。”
While the concept of state sovereignty can be traced to the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, the issue has been especially tricky for American presidents in the quarter century since the end of the Cold War. Ukraine itself is the product of a breakup, that of the Soviet Union, when 15 separate nations emerged from the wreckage. Several of those new nations then confronted their own separatist movements, notably Chechnya in Russia; Transnistria in Moldova; Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia; and Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan.
虽然国家主权的概念可以追溯到1648年的《威斯特法利亚和约》(Treaty of Westphalia)，但在冷战结束后的20多年里，这个问题对于美国总统来说尤为棘手。苏联解体后，脱离出来15个独立国家，乌克兰就是其中一个。后来，这些新产生的国家中，有几个自己也遭遇了分离主义运动，尤为值得一提的是俄罗斯的车臣、摩尔多瓦的特朗斯尼斯蒂尔、格鲁吉亚的阿布哈兹和南奥塞梯，以及阿塞拜疆的纳戈尔诺-卡拉巴赫。
Although Woodrow Wilson championed self-determination after World War I, the United States like most powers generally prefers stability and the status quo, so it has largely supported preserving borders where they are. During the first Russian war in Chechnya, Bill Clinton even likened Boris N. Yeltsin to Abraham Lincoln, a comparison many in Washington came to regret amid the carpet bombing of Grozny, the Chechen capital.
虽然一战后，伍德罗·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)支持相关地区自行决定是否独立，但是与大多数强国一样，美国基本也希望能保持稳定和现状，所以它大体支持保持原有的边界线。在第一次车臣战争中，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)甚至把鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)比作了亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)。在车臣首府格罗兹尼受到地毯式轰炸后，华盛顿有许多人都对这个类比后悔不已。
“Self-determination has been a controversial doctrine since Wilson, and hell to apply,” said Stephen Sestanovich, a former ambassador at large to the Soviet states and the author of a new book, “Maximalist,” on American foreign policy. “One consistent point: It can’t be used as a cudgel by big states to break up their neighbors. Russia’s own record here does not entitle it to the benefit of the doubt.”
“从威尔逊时代起，自决就一直是存在争议的原则，实施起来更有天大的麻烦，”曾在前苏联加盟共和国担当无任所大使的斯蒂芬·谢斯塔诺维奇(Stephen Sestanovich)说。他新近撰写了一本名为《极大》(Maximalist)的著作，主题为美国外交政策。“有一点保持了一致：它不能被大国用作分裂邻国的大棒。俄罗斯自身在这一问题上的纪录不能让人对它有什么信心。”
Russia’s two ferocious wars in Chechnya since the 1990s were fought to prevent the very strain of separatism it now encourages in Crimea. In backing President Bashar al-Assad of Syria in his civil war against rebels, Russia argues that state sovereignty should not be violated, an argument it has turned on its head in Ukraine.
上世纪90年代以来，俄罗斯在车臣打了两场激烈的战争，正是为了阻止它今天在克里米亚鼓励的那种分离主义。在支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)针对反对派武装的内战时，俄罗斯主张，国家主权不容侵犯。在乌克兰问题上，这一主张却正好反了过来。
Of course, the fractiousness that has chopped up the Soviet empire into increasingly smaller and often dysfunctional pieces is not relegated only to that part of the world, although in the West in recent years it has played through political and legal processes rather than military ones.
当然，导致苏维埃帝国四分五裂，让独立后的各国大伤元气的那种内讧并不局限在东欧。不过，它近年来在西方上演的时候，更多采用的是政治与法律程序，并没有诉诸军事手段。
In September, for example, Scotland will hold a referendum on secession, a vote being held with the acquiescence of London. In November, Catalonia plans its own vote on independence from Spain, although in that case the Madrid government has called it illegal. Quebec held unsuccessful referendums on independence from Canada in 1980 and 1995 and as recently as last week its separatist government was discussing whether another should be held.
比方说，今年9月，苏格兰将就分离问题进行公决，而此次投票获得了伦敦的默许。加泰罗尼亚地区计划在11月进行从西班牙独立的投票，不过马德里政府认定它违法。魁北克分别于1980年和1995年进行了从加拿大独立的公决，未能成功。上周，魁北克的分离主义政府还在讨论，是否要再次发起公决。
But Kosovo is the case that deeply divided Europe. After Yugoslavia fell apart, the Kosovo Liberation Army, a rebel group representing the Albanian minority, struggled against the Serbian government, which responded with punishing force until Mr. Clinton intervened in 1999 with a 78-day NATO bombing campaign.
然而，科索沃才是让欧洲深陷分歧的例子。南斯拉夫解体后，代表阿族少数族裔的反对派武装科索沃解放军(Kosovo Liberation Army)在与塞族政府的斗争中身陷困境，遭到政府的强力打击，直到克林顿总统1999年出手干预，让北约进行了为期78天的轰炸。
Kosovo declared independence in 2008. The United States under George W. Bush recognized it, as did Britain, France and Germany, but Russia adamantly rejected it, as did Spain. The International Court of Justice later ruled that Kosovo’s declaration was legal.
科索沃于2008年宣布独立。美国的乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府予以承认，英国、法国和德国也如此。可是，俄罗斯与西班牙坚决反对。后来，国际法院(The International Court of Justice)裁决，科索沃宣布独立一事合法。
“We never saw it as setting a precedent, but there were some nations that saw it that way and still do,” said James W. Pardew, who was Mr. Clinton’s special representative for the Balkans. 
曾担任克林顿政府巴尔干问题特别代表的詹姆斯·W· 帕迪尤(James W. Pardew)说，“我们从未把这看成是创下先例，不过，有些国家当时这样认为，今天依然如此。”
John B. Bellinger III, who was the top lawyer at the State Department under Bush, said: “We were very careful to emphasize that Kosovo was a unique situation. We were fond of saying it was sui generis — and it did not create a precedent that would likely be replicable anywhere else.”
在布什政府担任国务院首席法律顾问的约翰·B·贝林杰三世(John B. Bellinger III)则称，“我们很谨慎地强调，科索沃是特例。我们喜欢说它是独一无二的——没有创造一个可能在其他任何地方复制的先例。”
That is not how the Kremlin sees it. Ever since, Russia has cited Kosovo to justify support for pro-Moscow separatist republics in places like Georgia, where it went to war in 2008 and recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia over Western objections.
然而，克里姆林宫并不这么看。自那以后，俄罗斯将科索沃引为在格鲁吉亚等地支持亲莫斯科的分离主义共和国的正当理由。2008年，俄罗斯出兵格鲁吉亚，并在西方的反对声中承认阿布哈兹和南奥塞梯独立。
“Kosovo is very much a legitimate precedent,” said Dimitri K. Simes, president of the Center for the National Interest, a Washington research organization, agreeing with Moscow’s argument. “Independence was accomplished despite strong opposition by a legitimate, democratic and basically Western-oriented government of Serbia.” By contrast, he said, the new pro-Western government in Kiev “lacks legitimacy,” since it came to power by toppling a democratically elected president.
华盛顿的研究机构国家利益中心(Center for the National Interest)认同莫斯科的观点。中心主任德米特里·K·西梅斯(Dimitri K. Simes)认为，“科索沃在很大程度上开了法律先例。尽管合法、民主且大体亲西方的塞族政府强烈反对，科索沃还是取得了独立。”他还表示，相比之下，基辅的亲西方政府“缺乏合法性”，因为它是通过颠覆民主选举出来的总统而掌权的。
The Obama administration maintains that the cases cannot be compared. Serbia, White House officials said, lost its legitimacy and right to rule in Kosovo by its violent crackdown. Despite Russian claims, there has been little, if any, independent evidence of such a campaign against the Russian-speaking population in Crimea.
奥巴马政府坚称，两件事没有可比性。白宫官员表示，由于暴力镇压，塞族政府丧失了统治科索沃的合法性与正当性。尽管俄罗斯提出了种种说法，但很难找到克里米亚发生了针对俄语人口的此类暴行的证据，可以说完全没有。
“There’s no repression or crimes against humanity that the government in Kiev has committed against the people of Crimea,” Mr. Rhodes said. “There’s no loss of legitimacy.”
“基辅政府没有对克里米亚民众施加压迫或反人类罪行，” 罗兹说。“没有丧失合法性一说。”