HIROSHIMA, Japan — Secretary of State John Kerry attended a memorial ceremony in Hiroshima on Monday for victims of the American atomic bombing 71 years ago, becoming the highest-ranking United States administration official to visit the site of one of the most destructive acts of World War II.
日本广岛——本周一，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在广岛参加了一个仪式，纪念71年前美国原子弹轰炸的遇难者。在二战中破坏性最强的军事行动当中，广岛是打击目标之一，而克里是迄今访问这里的级别最高的美国政府官员。
The visit is likely to intensify speculation about whether President Obama will go to Hiroshima during a planned trip to Japan next month. Mr. Obama would be the first sitting American president to visit the city, a decision that would resonate deeply in Japan but would be controversial at home.
对于奥巴马是否会在下个月安排的访日期间前往广岛，克里此行有可能会加剧相关猜测。奥巴马如果成为第一个访问该市的在任美国总统，将在日本产生深深的共鸣，但会在美国引发争议。
“Everyone should visit Hiroshima, and everyone means everyone,” Mr. Kerry said at a news conference on Monday in response to a question about whether Mr. Obama would go. He said that the president had been invited by Japanese officials and that he would like to visit someday, but Mr. Kerry added: “Whether or not he can come as president, I don’t know.”
“每个人都应该访问广岛，每个人的意思就是每个人，”在周一的新闻发布会上，当被问及奥巴马是否会去那里时，克里回答说。他表示，日本官方已经邀请总统访问那里，奥巴马也希望有一天会去，但克里也表示：“他是否以总统身份前往，我就不知道了。”
Mr. Kerry spoke after he and other leading diplomats from the Group of 7 industrialized countries toured Hiroshima’s atomic bomb museum, laid flowers at a cenotaph in its Peace Memorial Park and examined the former exhibition hall that stood directly under the atomic blast and has been preserved as a skeletal monument. He called the experience “stunning” and “gut-wrenching.”
在讲这番话之前，克里与发达国家组成的七国集团(G7)的主要外交官，参观了广岛原子弹博物馆，在和平纪念公园的一座纪念碑前献花，并且参观了修建在原子弹爆炸地的旧展厅，现在它是一个空壳纪念馆。克里说参观的经历很“很震撼”、“很揪心”。
Mr. Kerry and the other officials were in the city for talks ahead of the annual Group of 7 summit meeting next month, to be hosted by Japan.
七国集团年度峰会将于下个月举行，克里和其他官员准备在这里举行会谈，为峰会打前站。本次峰会由日本主办。
The question of how to acknowledge the nuclear attack on Hiroshima, and another on the city of Nagasaki three days later, has long troubled American diplomats. The bombings ultimately killed more than 200,000 people, most of them civilians, in a country that after the war was transformed from an enemy of the United States into one of its closest allies.
如何承认当年广岛遭受的原子弹轰炸，以及三天后长崎遭受的轰炸，这个问题一直困扰着美国外交官。轰炸最终导致20多万人丧生，其中大多是平民，而二战之后，日本已经从美国的敌人转变成最亲密的盟友之一。
But a majority of Americans have long believed that the bombings were necessary to force Japan’s surrender and to spare American lives. Any hint that the United States was apologizing could prove highly damaging politically. For decades, American ambassadors to Japan avoided the somber annual ceremonies commemorating the bombings each August.
但是，大多数美国人都认为，轰炸对于迫使日本投降，挽救美国人的生命是必要的。任何暗示美国会道歉的言行，都可能在政治上引发严重后果。几十年来，美国驻日本大使一直都会避开每年8月气氛沉郁的原子弹爆炸纪念仪式。
Japan has never demanded that the United States apologize for the bombings, and Mr. Kerry did not do so on Monday. Still, the Japanese foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, who is from Hiroshima, called the visit by Mr. Kerry and other Group of 7 officials “a historic day.”
日本从未要求过美国为轰炸道歉，克里本周一也没有道歉。不过，来自广岛的日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)表示，克里和G7其他官员访问广岛是“具有历史意义的一天”。
“I want to deliver a strong and clear message of peace from Hiroshima to the world,” Mr. Kishida said.
“我希望从广岛向世界传递一条强烈而明确的和平讯息，”岸田文雄说。
Mr. Kerry’s participation in the ceremony threatened to overshadow the two-day Group of 7 meeting, attended by foreign ministers from Britain, Canada, France, Germany and Italy as well as the United States and Japan. They discussed terrorism, the refugee crisis in Europe, North Korea’s nuclear program and maritime security threats in Asia, among other issues.
克里参加这个仪式，可能给为期两天的G7会议投下了阴影。来自英国、加拿大、法国、德国、意大利、美国和日本的外长出席这场会议，讨论了反恐、欧洲难民危机、朝鲜核计划，以及亚洲海上安全威胁等问题。
Plans for Mr. Kerry’s visit to Hiroshima had already caused speculation that Mr. Obama could make history next month by going to the city during the summit meeting in Ise-Shima, about 250 miles to the east.
克里访问广岛的计划已经引起猜测，奥巴马下月将在广岛以东约250英里的伊势志摩参加峰会，一些人猜测他可能会在那期间创造历史访问广岛。
Former President Jimmy Carter toured the atom bomb memorial in 1984, four years after he left office, and Nancy Pelosi visited in 2008 when she was speaker of the House of Representatives. But no serving administration official of cabinet rank or higher has visited.
美国前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)曾在1984年参观原子弹纪念馆，当时他已经卸任四年。南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)也在2008年去过那里，当时她是众议院议长。但此前都没有内阁或更高级别的在任官员去过。
In 2009, Mr. Obama opened his presidency with an idealistic speech in Prague declaring his commitment to creating “a world without nuclear weapons.” Putting that sentiment into practice has proved difficult, however, and some see a visit to Hiroshima, in his last year in office, as a way of breathing fresh life into the effort.
2009年在布拉格，奥巴马用一场理想主义的演讲开启了他的总统任期，宣布他致力于打造“一个没有核武器的世界”。事实证明，要把这种情怀付诸实践相当困难，但是一些人认为，在总统任期的最后一年访问广岛，将会为这种努力注入一股新的活力。