I don’t know whether Secretary of State John Kerry will succeed in his two big chosen priorities: trying to forge an Israeli-Palestinian peace and a détente with Iran that deprives it of a nuclear weapon. But I admire his relentlessness. I admire the way he dares to fail — the only way to become a consequential secretary of state. And I admire his strategy: trying to construct a diplomacy that makes it impossible for Israel, the Palestinians and Iran to continue avoiding their big existential choices.
我不知道国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)会不会在自己选择的两项要务中取得成功：尝试缔造巴以和平，以及在同伊朗缓和关系的同时阻止其拥有核武器。但我敬佩他的坚持不懈。我欣赏他敢于失败的做事方式，这也是成为一名有影响力的国务卿的唯一途径。而且，我欣赏他的战略：尝试构建一种外交策略，这一策略将让以色列、巴勒斯坦和伊朗无法继续回避事关生死存亡的重大抉择。
Strip away the details of the Iran deal and, at its core, Kerry is offering Tehran this choice: Do you want to be a big North Korea or a Persian China? If you want your power and influence to be defined by how many nuclear weapons you can make, you can do that, but you will be a big failed state, largely isolated from the rest of the world, with your people never able to realize their full potential. If you want your greatness to be defined by the talent and energy of your people — which will be fully unleashed once sanctions are removed and they can reintegrate with the world after 34 years of semi-isolation — you’ll have to abandon all nuclear enrichment except for limited research and electrical needs. You choose. A better deal is not coming.
在同伊朗签订的协议中，剥去细枝末节，其核心是，克里为德黑兰提供了如下选择：想成为更大的朝鲜，还是波斯湾的中国？如果希望让能制造多少核武器这一点来定义你的权力和影响力，那么你可以这么做，但是，你将成为一个失败的大国，所有其他国家基本上都会孤立你，你的国民将永远无法发挥自己的全部潜力。如果希望用国民的才华和能力定义你的强大，那么你就必须放弃一切核浓缩活动，用于研究和发电的有限需求除外。一旦取消制裁，人民的才华和能力受到的束缚会被彻底解除。在经历了34年的半隔离状态后，他们将重新融入世界。你自己选吧。没有比这更好的协议了。
To Palestinians, Kerry is saying: You want to maintain the unity of the Palestinian people; you want an independent state in 100 percent of the West Bank with a capital in East Jerusalem; you want the total removal as soon as possible of all Israeli troops and settlements; and you want to be able to maintain some hostility to Israel in your textbooks and diplomacy. I can probably get you 95 percent of the West Bank with swaps from Israel to compensate for the rest and a toehold in East Jerusalem, but you’ll have give up the hostility and probably your unity — because there will be virtually no return of refugees to pre-1967 Israel, and Israeli troops will have to be permitted to maintain defensive positions in the Jordan Valley for at least a decade. I know, it is half a loaf, but it is real bread. You can always wait another 100 years.
克里对巴勒斯坦说的是：你希望维护巴勒斯坦的统一；你希望拥有整个约旦河西岸，建立一个独立国家，定都东耶路撒冷；你希望尽快全部清除以色列的所有军队和定居点；你希望能在教科书和外交政策中保留对以色列的些许敌意。我可能会让你得到约旦河西岸95%的地盘，让以色列为剩下5%的地盘提出补偿，也可以让你在东耶路撒冷立足，但是，你必须放弃敌意，可能还有你要求的统一，因为几乎不会有难民回到1967年以前的以色列，而且，必须允许让以色列军队的防御阵地在约旦峡谷保留至少10年。我知道这只是半瓶水，但总胜过什么都没有。你总是可以再等100年的。
To Israelis, Kerry is saying: You want a Jewish state, a state in all of the Land of Israel and a democratic state. You can have two out of three. You can be Jewish and in all the Land of Israel, but you will not be democratic, because the Arabs in the West Bank and Israel will constitute too big a voting bloc for you to tolerate democratically. You can be Jewish and democratic, but then you can’t hold onto the West Bank. You can be democratic and in all the Land of Israel, but then you can’t be a Jewish state (see point No. 1). You choose. A better deal is not coming.
克里对以色列说的是：你希望建立一个犹太国家、一个涵盖了整片以色列故土(Land of Israel)的国家、一个民主国家。但你只能三选其二。你可以建立一个犹太国家，得到整片色列故土，但这样你就不会是个民主国家，因为约旦河西岸和以色列的阿拉伯人会形成一个选民群体，这个群体的规模大到你无法以民主的方式容忍。你可以建立一个民主的犹太国家，但如果这样，你就无法保住约旦河西岸。你也可以建立一个民主国家，管辖整片以色列故土，那么你就不可能是个犹太国家（原因见第一种情况）。你自己选吧，反正没有更好的条件了。
This is not a simple choice for Israel, given the Arab turmoil around it. Kerry’s strategy has been to get the Pentagon to design a security scheme for the West Bank and Jordan Valley that would rely on satellites and other high-tech infrastructure to take the security question off the table as much as possible, so the choice for Israel is ideology versus a workable peace. Israeli officials, though, argue that the U.S. plan is insufficient.
考虑到周边阿拉伯世界的动荡现状，以色列面临的选择并不简单。克里的策略是，让五角大楼(Pentagon)为约旦河西岸和约旦峡谷设计一套依赖卫星和其他高科技基础设施的安全计划，以尽可能让安全问题不成为干扰因素，这样一来，以色列面临的就是意识形态和可行的和平之间的选择。然而，以色列官员认为，美国的这一计划不够充分。
The truth is, no security arrangement is foolproof. The only thing that might be foolproof is, along with the best security tools, giving Palestinians a state worth their defending and preserving by surprising them with a little trust — exactly the way Nelson Mandela surprised South African whites. What Palestinians do and say matters. But what Israelis do and say also conditions what Palestinians do and say — and vice versa. Up to now, neither this Palestinian leadership nor this Israeli leadership has shown an ounce of “Mandela-ism.” Everything they do to and for each other is grudging and fraught with suspicion, so there is never any sense of surprise. Without some trust breakthrough, I don’t see how a big deal gets done.
事实上，没有什么安全计划是万无一失的。唯一可能万无一失的是，除了上好的安全措施外，再出人意料地赋予巴勒斯坦人稍许信任，让他们拥有一个值得保卫和守护的国家。纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)正是用这种方式让南非的白人感到惊叹的。巴勒斯坦怎么做和怎么说很重要。但这也取决于以色列怎么做和怎么说。反之亦然。然而，迄今为止，巴勒斯坦领导人和以色列领导人均未表现出丝毫的“曼德拉主义”。他们在对彼此做任何事情时都不情不愿，且充满猜忌，因而从来没有惊喜感。如果在信任问题上无法取得突破，我觉得就无法达成重大协议。
But the status quo is not benign. Israeli-Palestinian clashes in the West Bank are mounting. With no deal, it could easily explode. Also, Israel’s steady expansion of settlements in the West Bank is giving its enemies more fodder to delegitimize the Jewish state. I am no fan of settlements, but I am also no fan of bigoted, one-sided boycotts of Israeli academic institutions like the one announced Monday by the American Studies Association, or A.S.A. (China threatens to throw out the U.S. press. Russia tries to rip Ukraine away from the European Union. But the A.S.A. singles out Israel for condemnation?) Does the A.S.A. even believe that Jews have a right to their own state anywhere in Palestine? After all, the A.S.A. statement says it opposes “the Israeli occupation of Palestine,” not specifying the West Bank. But I fear for Israel. If Israel doesn’t stop the settlement madness, denying the Palestinians a West Bank state, it will fit the caricature of its worst enemies.
然而，现状并不乐观。巴以在约旦河西岸的摩擦日益加剧。没有协议的话，冲突很容易爆发。而且，以色列在西岸稳步扩张定居点的行为给了敌人更多口实来否认以色列国的合法性。我个人不赞同定居点，但我也不同意诸如美国研究学会（American Studies Association，缩写ASA）周一宣布的那种针对以色列学术机构的单方面偏执抵制。（中国正威胁要将美国媒体驱逐出境；俄罗斯正试图拽着乌克兰远离欧盟。ASA竟然单单挑出以色列来谴责？）ASA是否认为，犹太人无权在巴勒斯坦地区的任何地方拥有自己的国家？毕竟，ASA在其声明中说的是，学会反对“以色列对巴勒斯坦的占领”，而没有特指西岸。不过，我还是为以色列感到担忧。如果它不停止在定居点问题上的疯狂之举，继续阻挠巴勒斯坦在西岸建国，它就会正好符合其最大敌人的夸张描述。
No question — for America, Israel and the Palestinians, no deal is still better than a bad deal that blows up the morning after. What Kerry is trying to put together are decent, hardheaded deals, in which opportunities can legitimately outweigh the risks for all sides. His chance of succeeding on the Iran or Israel-Palestine fronts is very low, but I greatly respect his daring to fail.
无疑，对美国、以色列和巴勒斯坦三方而言，没有协议还是好过第二天就分崩离析的糟糕协议。克里正努力推动的是体面而理性的协议，其中的机遇可以合情合理地超越各方的风险。他在伊朗或巴以问题上取得成功的可能性均很低，不过，我深深地敬佩他不惮于失败的勇气。