Secretary of State John Kerry headed to Asia on Wednesday to seek China’s help to try to pressure North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program.
周三，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)前往亚洲，希望得到中国的帮助，以便尝试向朝鲜施压，要求其放弃自己的核武器计划。
A senior State Department official said that Mr. Kerry wanted China to take steps to bring “the North Korean leadership to the realization” that pursing the capability to deliver nuclear weapons with a ballistic missile “does not bring security” and “is simply not tenable.”
国务院(State Department)的一名高级官员称，克里希望中国采取措施，“让朝鲜领导人认识到”追求用弹道导弹运载核武器能力的行为“不会带来安全”，而且“完全不可行”。
Mr. Kerry delivered the same message to the Chinese leadership during his previous visit to Beijing as secretary of state in April 2013.
克里上一次以国务卿身份访华是在2013年4月，当时他也向中国领导人发出了同样的讯息。
North Korea has conducted three nuclear tests and its nuclear program appears to be proceeding without interruption.
朝鲜已经进行了三次核试验，该国的核计划似乎正在不间断地进行。
Mr. Kerry’s first stop in Asia will be South Korea, where he is scheduled to arrive on Thursday. Mr. Kerry will meet with President Park Geun-hye and Yun Byung-se, South Korea’s foreign minister.
按照计划，克里将于周四抵达亚洲之行的第一站韩国。在韩国，克里将与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)举行会晤。
North Korea and the South's relations with its neighbor, including efforts to facilitate reunions between family members on the divided peninsula, are main agenda items. On Friday, Mr. Kerry will fly to Beijing to meet with senior officials there. In addition to discussing North Korea, Mr. Kerry plans to address climate change and China’s maritime claims, which have increased tension in the region.
克里访韩的主要议题是朝鲜问题及朝韩两国关系关系，包括协助处在分裂状态的朝鲜半岛上的离散家庭实现团聚的努力。周五，克里将飞往北京，同那里的高官会面。除了讨论朝鲜问题以外，克里还计划探讨气候变化和中国的海权要求。中国的海权要求已导致该地区紧张局势加剧。
On Saturday, Mr. Kerry will head to Indonesia, where he will deliver a speech on climate change.
周六，克里将前往印度尼西亚，并在那里发布有关气候变化的演讲。
On Monday he flies to Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. During the visit to the U.A.E., Mr. Kerry will consult with Gulf officials on Syria and the nuclear talks that the United States and its partners are holding with Iran, which are set to resume next week. The visit is also intended to lay the groundwork for President Obama’s visit to Saudi Arabia in March.
周一，克里将飞往阿拉伯联合酋长国的阿布扎比。在此期间，克里将与海湾地区的官员商讨叙利亚问题，以及美国和其合作伙伴与伊朗之间的谈判，谈判将于下周重启。美国还准备通过此次访问为奥巴马总统3月份的沙特阿拉伯之行奠定基础。
Another source of tension is North Korea’s imprisonment of a missionary, Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American. North Korea recently withdrew an invitation for Robert King, the United States special envoy on human rights in North Korea, to travel to the capital, Pyongyang. North Korea said it was doing so because scheduled American and South Korea military exercises had raised tensions.
局势紧张的另一个原因是朝鲜关押了韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)。朝鲜最近取消了对美国朝鲜人权问题特使罗伯特·金(Robert King)访问平壤的邀请。朝鲜称，取消邀请是因为美韩联合军演计划导致了局势紧张。
Another factor appears to be a training mission that two American B-52s conducted from Guam on Feb. 4 and 5. The flight crossed through the Chinese self-declared air identification defense zone without incident. China has insisted that foreign aircraft notify China before penetrating that zone, which covers much of the East China Sea. But the United States does not recognize the zone. North Korea officials have charged that the flight was a provocation.
美国两架B-52轰炸机于2月4日和5日从关岛出发执行了训练任务，这似乎也是局势紧张的一个原因。轰炸机平安无事地飞过了中国自行宣布的防空识别区。该识别区覆盖东海的大部分水域，中国坚持要求外国飞机在进入该识别区之前通知中方。但美国并不承认这个防空识别区。朝鲜官员指责称，此次飞行属于挑衅。