Sen. Ted Cruz won the most delegates awarded in the Wyoming Republican conventions Saturday, while Sen. Marco Rubio narrowly beat Gov. John Kasich in Washington, D.C., on the last day of voting before Tuesday's make-or-break primaries in five large states.
在周六举行的怀俄明州共和党大会上，特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)参议员赢得该州大多数代表的支持，马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)参议员则在华盛顿特区险胜俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)。周二将有五个大州举行生死攸关的初选，而周六是此前的最后一轮投票。
Hillary Clinton was the winner in the Northern Mariana Islands, the only Democratic contest of the day. In Guam, Republicans chose nine delegates for the party's July convention, but the delegates were officially unpledged to any candidate.
当天于北马里亚纳群岛进行的民主党投票是该党当天唯一的一场比拼，结果希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)成为赢家。共和党还在关岛选出了9位代表参加7月份的全国党代会，不过，这些代表不会公开承诺支持哪位候选人。
Compared with the primaries coming in Florida, Illinois, Missouri, North Carolina and Ohio — in what is shaping up to be a second “Super Tuesday” — these contests made for a minor Saturday, with Cruz trimming a bit from Donald J. Trump's delegate lead.
即将在佛罗里达、伊利诺伊、密苏里、北卡罗来纳和俄亥俄这五个州举行的初选有望成就第二个“超级星期二”。与之相比，这些比拼成就的是一个轻量级星期六，其中克鲁兹略微削弱了唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在所获代表支持方面的领先优势。
In Washington, where Republicans are relatively rare and tend to work as lobbyists, lawyers and Capitol Hill staff members, Saturday amounted to what might have been the establishment's last chance to roar back at the angry anti-Washington masses who have dominated the electorate so far.
在华盛顿特区，共和党人相对少见，通常以说客、律师或国会工作人员存在。周六或许是该党建制派反过来向至今一直主导选举的愤怒的反华盛顿民众呐喊的最后一个机会。
Registered Democrats living in Washington outnumber Republicans more than 10 to 1, but Patrick Mara, the executive director of the DC Republican Party, noted the national party had granted it 19 delegates to the convention, not an insignificant number considering that all of Florida, the biggest state voting Tuesday, has 99.
住在华盛顿的民主党登记选民与共和党选民的比例超过了10比1，但共和党特区委员会执行总监帕克里克·马拉(Patrick Mara)指出，共和党分给这一地区的全国大会代表名额是19人，相比于将于周二进行投票的最大州佛罗里达所拥有的99个名额，这个数字并非微不足道。
As a result, Mara said he was surprised candidates did not campaign here, although he acknowledged, “It's hard to run here in a public way when you are spending your whole campaign running away from Washington.”
因此，没有候选人来此地拉选票的现实让马拉颇为惊讶，但他也承认，“当你的整个竞选围绕着远离华盛顿来展开的时候，的确是很难公开在这里搞竞选活动。”
Wyoming represented the day's other prize. Three of the state's 29 delegates were unpledged state party officials, and only 12 delegates were contested Saturday, with Cruz of Texas winning nine of them. The remaining 14 will be pledged at a state convention April 16.
怀俄明州是当天的另一大看点。该州29名共和党代表中，有3名是不公开表态的州级党内官员，只有12个名额在周六争夺，德克萨斯州参议员克鲁兹赢得了其中9人的支持。剩下的14名代表将在4月16日举行的州党代会上表态。
Wyoming party's chairman, Matt Micheli, pointed out that Cruz had visited in August, hosting a couple of large rallies on opposite ends of the state, and that the Cruz campaign had remained engaged throughout the primary season. Trump never made it to the state, Kasich of Ohio visited last year, and surrogates for Rubio of Florida held several events.
怀俄明州共和党主席马特·米切利(Matt Micheli)指出，克鲁兹本人曾在去年8月到访该州，在不同地方举行了几场大型集会活动，而且在整个初选阶段，克鲁兹的竞选团队在该州一直持续进行活动。特朗普从没到访该州，俄亥俄州的卡西奇去年来过，佛罗里达州参议员卢比奥的代理人曾在这里举行过几场活动。