WASHINGTON — A month ago, most Americans could not have found Crimea on a map. But its lightning-quick takeover by Moscow has abruptly redrawn the geopolitical atlas and may have decisively ended a 25-year period of often tumultuous but also constructive relations between the United States and Russia.
华盛顿——一个月前，大部分美国人可能在地图上根本找不到克里米亚。但俄罗斯闪电般地接管克里米亚，突然就改写了地缘政治格局，而且可能也已决定性地结束了美俄关系在过去25年的状态。这25年里，两国关系常常冲突不断，但同时也颇具建设性。
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, Washington and Moscow had struggled to replace their Cold War rivalry with a new form of partnership, one that was tested by crisis after crisis but that endured in its own peculiar way. After each rupture, whether over Kosovo or Iraq or Georgia, came another reset that put the two powers back onto an uneasy equilibrium.
自1989年柏林墙倒塌以来，美国和俄罗斯努力用一种新的伙伴关系取代冷战时期的对抗。这种伙伴关系经历了一次又一次危机的考验，但却以自己独特的方式得以存在。不管是科索沃、伊拉克还是格鲁吉亚问题，每次出现裂痕后都会出现调整，让这两个大国重新达成一种不稳固的共存关系。
The decision by President Vladimir V. Putin to snatch Crimea away from Ukraine, ratified in a defiant treaty-signing ceremony in the Kremlin on Tuesday, threatens to usher in a new, more dangerous era. If it is not the renewed Cold War that some fear, it seems likely to involve a prolonged period of confrontation and alienation that will be hard to overcome. The next reset, if there ever is one, for the moment appears far off and far-fetched.
周二，克里姆林宫挑衅地举办了相关条约的签署仪式，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)从乌克兰手中夺走克里米亚的决定由此正式获得批准，这可能会开启一个更危险的新时代。这即便不是一些人所担心的新冷战，看上去也可能会带来旷日持久且难以克服的对抗和疏远。目前来看，即使会有下一次调整，似乎也是遥远而不可信的。
“This is an earthquake, and not a 4-point earthquake,” said Toby Gati, a longtime Russia specialist who served in President Bill Clinton’s State Department and now works for the law firm Akin Gump on business deals. While it is not a return to the Cold War, she said, it does dispel the dreams of 1989. “Europe whole and free? Well, it’s a Europe free-for-all. And we don’t know how to react to it. And we don’t know how to control the narrative anymore.”
“这是一次地震，而且不是四点几级的小地震，”长期研究俄罗斯问题的专家托比·加蒂(Toby Gati)说。加蒂曾在比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统任内的国务院任职，现供职于艾金·岗波(Akin Gump)律师事务所，负责商务协议事务。她说，尽管不会回到冷战时期，但这的确让1989年的梦想破灭了。“欧洲是一体和自由的吗？好吧，这是一个纷争混乱的欧洲。我们不知道如何应对。我们也不再知道该怎么把握这种定义了。”
Stephen J. Hadley, who was President George W. Bush’s national security adviser, said it would be harder to recover from this clash than in the past because Mr. Putin is effectively rejecting the international order established after the collapse of the Soviet Union. “He wants to rewrite the history that emerged at the end of the Cold War,” Mr. Hadley said. “We have fundamentally different approaches to what Europe is going to be.”
曾任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统国家安全顾问的斯蒂芬·J·哈德利(Stephen J. Hadley)表示，和过去相比，从这次冲突中恢复过来会更难，因为普京实际上是拒绝遵守苏联解体后建立起来的国际秩序。“他想改写冷战结束后的历史，”哈德利说。“对于欧洲会变成什么样子，我们的处理手法截然不同。”
At the White House on Tuesday, President Obama plotted his next moves, a tit-for-tat response of additional sanctions to punish Russia for what Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. speaking in Warsaw, described as “nothing more than a land grab.” In private moments, administration officials recognize that the chances of prying Crimea loose from Russia are minimal and that the real question is whether the West can stop Mr. Putin from destabilizing or even trying to take control of eastern Ukraine.
周二，奥巴马总统在白宫制定了接下来的行动。这是在对副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在华沙所说的“就是掠夺土地”的行为，采取了针锋相对的更多制裁。私下里，奥巴马政府官员承认，让俄罗斯放松对克里米亚的控制的可能性很小，而且真正的问题是，西方能否阻止普京破坏乌克兰东部稳定，乃至试图控制该地区的行动。
Even if the United States and Europe can draw that line, it is hard to see the relationship returning to business as usual in the short term. The steady integration of Russia into the international community, culminating with its entry into the World Trade Organization in 2012 with Mr. Obama’s help, headed into reverse on Tuesday as the United States and six other industrial powers decided to meet next week as the Group of 7, effectively ending the Group of 8 that Russia joined in 1998.
即使美国和欧洲能在这方面做出限制，也很难在短期看到美俄关系回归正常。周二，美国和其他六个工业化国家决定下周举行七国集团会议，实际上意味着俄罗斯1998年加入的八国集团解体，俄罗斯稳步融入国际社会的进程走向倒退。2012年，在奥巴马的帮助下，俄罗斯加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)，其融入国际社会的进程达到高潮。
Secretary of State John Kerry said Mr. Putin’s speech announcing the annexation “just didn’t jibe with reality.” Even though Russia has legitimate interests in Ukraine, he told a town hall audience, “that doesn’t legitimize just taking what you want because you want it or because you’re angry about the end of the Cold War or the end of the Soviet Union, or whatever it is.”
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)称，普京宣布兼并克里米亚的讲话“与现实不符”。在与民众直接对话的市政厅会议上，克里说，尽管俄罗斯在乌克兰有合法利益，“但这并不意味着因为想要，或因为对冷战的结束、苏联的解体或是其他什么事情不满而出手夺走自己想要的东西，就是合法的”。
In jeopardy are all sorts of areas where the United States and Russia cooperate. The two collaborate closely on space exploration, and American access to the International Space Station depends entirely on Russian rocket launches. American troops heading to and from Afghanistan fly through Russian airspace. Intelligence agencies share information about terrorist organizations, albeit not always everything. American experts help Russians dismantle old nuclear weapons.
岌岌可危的包括美俄合作的各个领域。双方在太空探索方面密切合作；美国人完全依赖俄罗斯火箭发射来进出国际空间站(International Space Station)。美军出入阿富汗的时候需要飞经俄罗斯的领空。两国情报部门分享有关恐怖组织的信息，尽管时而有所保留。美国专家还帮助俄罗斯拆除老旧核武。
Even as Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin have traded diplomatic jabs, their governments have labored to limit the damage. Diplomats from the United States and Russia were in touch last week to ensure they could still work together on negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program, and then they returned to Geneva this week for renewed talks. After initially threatening to bar American nuclear inspectors under the New Start treaty Mr. Obama signed, Russian officials quietly told their counterparts the inspections would continue.
虽说奥巴马与普京在外交上针锋相对，两国政府已在努力止损。美俄外交官上周保持联系，以保证双方仍能在伊朗核计划谈判上合作。本周，他们均返回日内瓦重启谈判。俄罗斯起初威胁，要禁止奥巴马签署的新《削减战略武器条约》(New Start)中规定的美国核查人员的工作，不过俄罗斯官员私下告诉美国人，核查将继续进行下去。
“We’ve been able to cooperate even as we have some differences, and serious differences, on other things,” Mr. Kerry said. “That’s the tragedy of what has happened with respect to Crimea.”
“我们一直能进行合作，尽管我们在其他方面存在一些分歧，严重的分歧，”克里说，“这就是克里米亚事态发展的悲剧所在。”
Whether that cooperation can continue beneath the radar if the West exacts the sorts of punishing sanctions it has been threatening seems more problematic. The relationship did resume after Russia’s war with Georgia in 2008. In that case, a newly inaugurated Mr. Obama made restoring ties a signature priority, and many in the West were willing to move on, in part because they blamed Georgia’s mercurial president, Mikheil Saakashvili, for provoking Moscow.
如果西方落实了一直威胁采取的各种惩罚性制裁，这种合作还能否悄然持续，前景似乎更不可知。2008年俄罗斯出兵格鲁吉亚后，美俄关系的确有所恢复。当时，履新伊始的奥巴马将重建与俄罗斯的联系作为标志性的工作重心，而且许多西方人士愿意往前看，部分原因是他们将此事归咎于反复无常的格鲁吉亚总统米哈伊尔·萨卡什维利(Mikheil Saakashvili)挑衅莫斯科的结果。