WHEN it opened in 2009 to some media fuss, University of the People was a free-culture concept in a competitive, proprietary universe. It charged no tuition and was open to anyone who could do the work. Professors volunteered their time. Now, four years later, the first students are reaching graduation, raising a question no R.O.I. calculator has yet sought to answer: What is a free online degree worth?
2009年正式上线时，秉持自由文化理念的民众大学(University of the People)着实惹得媒体一阵追捧。在竞争激烈，注重产权的教育世界中，这所大学不收取学费，并且向任何一位有能力学习的人士开放。教授们主动贡献时间参与其中。四年后的今天，首批学生毕业在即，人们不由得提出了一个投资回报率计算器还无法回答的问题：一个免费的在线学位究竟价值几何？
Ali Patrik Eid, 33, hopes it can land him a new job. He works for a company that provides evacuations and medical service, based in Jordan. Speaking via Skype from his dining room table as twin 1-year-old daughters squealed beyond a folding screen divider, Mr. Eid said that adding an associate degree in business administration to his résumé had gotten him three job interviews. “I have been trying since forever to arrange an interview,” said Mr. Eid, who will complete a bachelor’s in March. “Once I mentioned I had a degree, I had lots of e-mails.”
33岁的阿里·帕特里克·艾伊德(Ali Patrik Eid)希望它可以帮自己获得一份新工作。他目前就职于约旦一家提供疏散和医疗服务的公司。伴随着屏风后1岁大双胞胎女儿发出的尖叫声，艾伊德在餐桌旁通过Skype网络电话接受了采访。他说，自从简历中多了一个工商管理副学士学位以来，他已参加了三次面试。“我一直在努力争取面试机会，”将在3月份取得学士学位的艾伊德说。“一旦我提到我拥有一个学位，我就一下子收到了很多电子邮件。”
Debbie Time, who will get a bachelor’s in business administration in January, hopes to start a jewelry business. Ms. Time, who is 48, works as an administrative assistant at a Florida insurance company. “I don’t want to stay in cubicle nation,” she said, adding that courses taught her how to structure a business, “find a target niche” and, if business flags, how to “figure out which items are losing money.”
即将于1月份获得工商管理学士学位的黛比·泰莫(Debbie Time)希望创办一家珠宝企业。48岁的泰莫女士目前在佛罗里达州一家保险公司从事行政助理工作。她说：“我可不想一辈子呆在小隔间里。”她还表示，这些课程教会她如何构建一家企业，如何“找到一个目标市场”，倘若生意衰退的话，如何“搞清楚哪些项目在赔钱”。
Online learning has caught fire since the early days of “distance education,” and massive open online courses have injected technological polish and a hip ethos to Web courses, but University of the People remains the only tuition-free online college granting degrees.
自“远程教育”出现之初，在线学习就引发了巨大的热情，大规模在线课程为网络课程注入了技术光彩和时尚气质，但民众大学依然是唯一一所不收取学费，并授予学位的网络大学。
“We are building a model to show that education can be way less expensive than it is right now,” the founder, Shai Reshef, said over black coffee and tuna tartare at a coffee shop on Manhattan’s Upper West Side.
“我们正在建立一个模式，以表明高等教育可以比现在便宜得多。”在上西城一家咖啡厅，创始人沙伊·雷谢夫(Shai Reshef)一边品尝黑咖啡和塔塔金枪鱼，一边说。
University of the People has an annual budget of $1 million, 14 paid staff members and 300 volunteers. It runs on donations from foundations, including the Hewlett and the Gates foundations and the Carnegie Corporation, plus fees students pay to apply (from $10 to $50) and take exams ($100 each), although waivers are available. Mr. Reshef, an Israeli businessman in the education field, has contributed $3.5 million of his own money.
民众大学有100万美元的年度预算、14位受薪员工和300位志愿者。其运营资金主要源自基金会捐款——其中包括惠普(Hewlett)和盖茨(Gates)基金会、卡内基公司(Carnegie Corporation)，外加学生缴纳的申请费（在10到50美元之间）和考试费（每人100美元），不过他们可以申请豁免这些费用。作为一位在教育领域耕耘多年的以色列商人，雷谢夫已经为这所大学贡献了350万美元自有资金。
Curriculum is shaped by unpaid deans with day jobs at New York University and Columbia and is purposefully low tech, using open-source, text-based materials that students access and respond to asynchronously. “We use the simplest technology that is most available,” Mr. Reshef said. A quarter of students don’t have broadband and can’t play video; 6 percent use only mobile devices.
课程安排是由一些无偿担任各学院院长的纽约大学(New York University)和哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)教授设计的，并有意采用基于开放源代码，对技术条件要求不高，学生可不同步获取和反馈的文本材料。“我们使用最简单，最易获取的技术，”雷谢夫说。四分之一的学生没有宽带，不能播放视频；6%的学生只使用移动设备。
University of the People has not served large numbers. While close to 1,500 students from 137 countries have enrolled since it opened, there are currently only 736 active students. Mr. Eid and Ms. Time are among 17 students on track to earn a bachelor’s degree in business administration or computer science within the next year. Another 31 will earn associate’s degrees.
民众大学的学生并不多。自正式上线以来，这所大学共招收了来自137个国家的近1500名学生，目前依然在册的学生仅有736名。包括艾伊德和泰莫在内的17位学生明年将获得工商管理或计算机科学学士学位。另外31名学生将获得副学士学位。
Yet interest is high. More than 44,000 contacted University of the People in the last academic year, and 15,000 more got in touch after Microsoft announced in August that it would provide 1,000 University of the People students in Africa with internships, technical training and mentoring and cover exam fees.
然而，学习兴趣依然高涨。在上个学年，超过4.4万人联系民众大学咨询报名事宜。在微软公司(Microsoft)于8月份宣布将向1000名非洲地区的民众大学学生提供实习机会、技术培训和指导，并负担其考试费用之后，又有大约1.5万人联系该校。
An obvious barrier: University of the People is still working toward accreditation. Russell Poulin, deputy director of research and analysis for Wiche Cooperative for Educational Technologies, who helped draft guidelines for accrediting bodies to judge online programs, says it’s likely the university will show the academic rigor and programmatic coherence needed for accreditation. (Students get written assignments and tests, do open-source reading, and write journals and judge peer writing with instructor oversight.)
一个明显的障碍是：民众大学依然在努力争取认证。洲际高等教育技术合作组织(Wiche Cooperative for Educational Technologies)研究和分析事务副主管罗素·波林(Russell Poulin)曾经帮助认证机构起草评判在线课程的指导方针。他说，民众大学很可能将显示出学术的严谨性和课程的连贯性，而这正是认证所需的要求。其原因是，这所大学的学生需要完成书面作业，参加考试，阅读开源材料，写学习日记，并在指导老师的监督下互评作文。
The bigger issue, Mr. Poulin said, is how employers react to the online institution (the only real estate is 500 square feet in a Pasadena, Calif., office park). Online education as a whole has made inroads among employers, but “there is still a lot of skepticism,” said Carolin Hagelskamp, director of research for Public Agenda, a nonprofit group that queried 656 employers for a report released in September. Even though 80 percent saw a niche for online learning, especially for older students, 56 percent preferred on-campus degrees. “It doesn’t mean attitudes aren’t changing,” she said.
波林表示，更大的问题是雇主如何评价这家在线教育机构（其唯一房产是位于加州帕萨迪纳市办公园区内一个500平方英尺的办公室）。公共议程基金会(Public Agenda)研究主管卡罗琳·哈格尔斯坎普(Carolin Hagelskamp)表示，就整体而言，网络教育已经获得了不少雇主的认可，但“质疑态度依然大量存在”。这家非营利性组织于9月份发布了一份报告。在接受采访的656家雇主中，有80%的雇主认为在线学习具备生存空间，对年龄较大的学生尤为如此，但56%的雇主更青睐在大学校园内获取的学位。“这并不意味着雇主的态度没有改变，”她说。
A mixed response is what Mr. Eid found in his job interviews. The employers had never heard of University of the People and asked about it. Some were “afraid of it being a fraud,” while “others liked the idea” of a free online degree, he said. One “was so amazed about me” working, being a father and “at the same time studying.” He was offered one position but the pay was too low to justify relocating.
艾伊德在求职面试期间看到的反应令他喜忧参半。雇主从未听说过民众大学，并询问这所大学的概况。一些人“担心它可能是一所野鸡大学”，而“其他人喜欢免费在线学位这一创意，”他说。一位雇主“非常惊奇地获悉”已经当爸爸的艾伊德竟然可以一边工作，“一边学习”。人家给了他一个职务，但工资太低，而且还需要搬家，实在不划算。
“University of the People is a bit of a risk,” said Doug Walters, the transportation coordinator for the Southern York County School District in Glen Rock, Pa. His salary is in the mid-$40,000s. And with a 9-year-old daughter to support and student loans from unfinished degrees at Brigham Young University and Penn State Online, the free tuition appealed. Mr. Walters, now 29, began in fall 2011 and plans to earn a business administration degree in two years so that he can advance in the district. “There is no way I can do that without completing a higher education,” he said.
“上民众大学具有一定的风险性，”宾夕法尼亚州格兰岩市南约克县学区交通协调员道格·沃尔特斯(Doug Walters)如是说。他的年薪大约4.5万美元左右。鉴于他需要抚养一个9岁大的女儿，还要偿还因攻读杨百翰大学(Brigham Young University)和宾夕法尼亚州立大学在线课程(Penn State Online)未竟之学位而欠下的学生贷款，学费全免对他很有吸引力。现年29岁的沃尔特斯于2011年秋天开始上民众大学，他计划在两年内获得一个工商管理硕士学位，这样他在这个学区的职业生涯才有望进一步发展。“如果没有大学文凭，我根本没办法升职，”他说。
Will a University of the People degree move him ahead? “We only recognize university programs that are accredited and approved by the PA Department of Education,” said Mr. Walters’s boss, Wayne McCullough, chief financial and operations officer for the district.
民众大学的学位是否将帮助他更上一层楼？“我们只承认被宾州教育厅认可并批准的大学课程，”沃尔特斯的老板、学区首席财务官兼运营总监韦恩·麦卡洛(Wayne McCullough)这样说道。
Mr. Walters has some time. But Mr. Eid, who just sent out 50 more résumés, is eager for results now.
沃尔特斯还可以等候一段时间。但刚刚递出50份简历的艾伊德迫切希望现在就能看到结果。
Mr. Poulin believes that international students like Mr. Eid, who make up 75 percent of those enrolled, may get the greatest benefit. “In many countries,” he said, “having a degree from an American university does have a lot of value to it.”
波林认为，收获最大的或许就是像艾伊德这样的国际学生。他说：“在许多国家，美国大学的学位还是非常吃香的。”在民众大学，国际学生约占入学总人数的75%。
The University of the People concept — to educate those who don’t otherwise have access — is grand. But finding the sweet spot of access and rigor hasn’t been easy. Dalton Conley, a professor of sociology, medicine and public policy at N.Y.U. who volunteers as dean of arts and sciences, hopes University of the People can “have the reputation CUNY had 50 years ago when poor kids came and did great things.”
民众大学的理念——给予原本求学无门的人接受高等教育的机会——是宏伟的。但找到一所既敞开校门，同时兼具学术严谨性的大学并非易事。志愿担任艺术和科学学院院长的纽约大学社会学、医学和公共政策教授道尔顿·康利(Dalton Conley)希望民众大学能够“获得纽约市立大学(CUNY)50年前曾拥有的声誉，成为一所帮助穷孩子成就伟业的高等学府”。
Initially, University of the People admitted almost all who applied, but many didn’t speak English well enough to do the work, Mr. Reshef said, including posting on discussion boards and judging peer writing. It has since raised its standards; there are now six required admissions essays, and nonnative speakers must prove proficiency with test scores or pass an English course before they can apply. Acceptance rates have dropped from 99 to 81 percent. Retention rose from 42 percent in 2010 to 81 percent last year.
雷谢夫说，民众大学最初几乎接受了所有的入学申请，但许多学生的英语不够好，难以胜任日常学习要求，比如在讨论区发帖，互评作文等等。这所大学随后上调了招生标准；申请者现在必须完成6篇入学作文，母语非英语的申请者必须以考试成绩来证明其语言能力，或者在申请前通过一门英语课程。录取率已经从99%下降至81%。保留率从2010年的42%上升至去年的81%。
Two years ago, University of the People also added academic advising, and outreach to students whose grade-point average dropped below 2.0. “We are opening the gates for everyone and we are tuition free — students need this extra support,” Mr. Reshef said.
两年前，民众大学还增加了学术指导，向平均绩点跌至2.0以下的学生伸出援手。“我们正在向每个人开启教育之门，而且学费全免——学生需要这种额外的支持，”雷谢夫说。
That’s what Kregg C. Strehorn, associate dean for undergraduate advising and learning at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, noticed when he became a volunteer adviser and professor of introductory sociology. “The diversity is off the charts,” he said. He has students from a dozen countries and five continents in each class. “Many have had no experience with higher education,” he said. They don’t know what a syllabus is or what it means to fulfill degree requirements.
这正是马萨诸塞大学安姆斯特分校(University of Massachusetts, Amherst)负责本科生学习指导事务的副院长克瑞格·C·斯特莱霍恩(Kregg C. Strehorn)在成为志愿顾问和社会学导论教授之后发现的现象。“这里的多样性确实无与伦比，”他说。他带的每个班都有来自十几个国家，遍及五大洲的学生。“许多学生都没有经历过高等教育，”他说。他们不知道何为教学大纲，何为满足学位要求。
Because few have yet been able to use University of the People as a steppingstone, Joe Jean of Haiti has become its poster boy. Two years ago, Mr. Jean used his 3.5 G.P.A. at University of the People to gain admission and a full ride to N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi, where he is now a sophomore computer science major. (John Sexton, president of N.Y.U., heads Mr. Reshef’s council of advisers.)
由于目前已经将民众大学作为一个跳板的人少之又少，来自海地的乔·吉恩(Joe Jean)就成了这所大学的代言人。两年前，吉恩凭借他在民众大学获得的3.5分平均绩点，跨进了纽约大学阿布扎比分校的大门，还获得了全额奖学金。他目前已是这所大学计算机科学专业的大二学生。需要指出的是，纽约大学校长约翰·塞克斯顿(John Sexton)是雷谢夫的顾问委员会主席。
For Mr. Jean, 25, whose family subsists on money his mother earns selling juice, education is a life changer. “Now I have a bigger perspective, bigger dreams,” he said, taking a break from a homework assignment writing computer code. At home, he said, “I have a lot of people counting on me.”
吉恩一家人的生活全仰仗他的妈妈卖果汁的微薄收入。对于这位25岁的年轻人来说，接受高等教育是一次改变人生轨迹的机会。“现在，我拥有了更大的视角，更大的梦想，”正忙于撰写计算机代码家庭作业的吉恩这样说道。在家里，“还有许多人指望着我呢。”