Two years after a Stanford professor drew 160,000 students from around the globe to a free online course on artificial intelligence, starting what was widely viewed as a revolution in higher education, early results for such large-scale courses are disappointing, forcing a rethinking of how college instruction can best use the Internet.
一位斯坦福大学的教授曾经吸引了世界各地16万名学生听了他的一个有关人工智能的免费在线课程，自此开启了一场被人们广泛视作高等教育改革的新潮流，而两年之后，对这种大规模课程进行调研的初步结果却令人失望，迫使人们重新思考大学教学如何能够最好地利用网络。
A study of a million users of massive open online courses, known as MOOCs, released this month by the University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education found that, on average, only about half of those who registered for a course ever viewed a lecture, and only about 4 percent completed the courses.
宾夕法尼亚大学教育研究生院(University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education)针对100万名大型公开在线课程（massive open online course，简称MOOC）的用户进行了调查，本月公布了结果。根据此项调查，注册网络课程的用户中，只有大约一半听过一堂课，而只有4%的用户完成了全部课程。
Much of the hope — and hype — surrounding MOOCs has focused on the promise of courses for students in poor countries with little access to higher education. But a separate survey from the University of Pennsylvania released last month found that about 80 percent of those taking the university’s MOOCs had already earned a degree of some kind.
围绕着MOOC，众多的期待和各界的宣传都集中于它给那些贫困地区学生所带来的希望，它承诺为那些几乎没有什么机会实现高等教育的学生送去课程。但宾夕法尼亚大学上个月公布的另一项调查发现，80%参与该大学MOOC的人已经取得了某一领域的学位。
And perhaps the most publicized MOOC experiment, at San Jose State University, has turned into a flop. It was a partnership announced with great fanfare at a January news conference featuring Gov. Jerry Brown of California, a strong backer of online education. San Jose State and Udacity, a Silicon Valley company co-founded by a Stanford artificial-intelligence professor, Sebastian Thrun, would work together to offer three low-cost online introductory courses for college credit.
而圣何塞州立大学(San Jose State University)的一项可能是受到了最多宣传的MOOC试验已经以失败告终。这是在一月份的一次新闻发布会上大张旗鼓宣布的一个合作项目，有支持网络教育的加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)参加。圣何塞州立大学和硅谷企业Udacity公司将展开合作，提供三个低价的、记学分的网络入门课程。斯坦福大学人工智能学教授塞巴斯蒂安·特龙(Sebastian Thrun)参与创建了Udacity公司。
Mr. Thrun, who had been unhappy with the low completion rates in free MOOCs, hoped to increase them by hiring online mentors to help students stick with the classes. And the university, in the heart of Silicon Valley, hoped to show its leadership in online learning, and to reach more students.
特龙对于免费MOOC课程的低完成率感到不满，他希望通过雇佣网络导师帮助学生们坚持完成课程，来增加这一比率。而位于硅谷中心地带的圣何塞州立大学则希望展示它在网络学习领域的领导地位，并希望帮助更多学生。
But the pilot classes, of about 100 people each, failed. Despite access to the Udacity mentors, the online students last spring — including many from a charter high school in Oakland — did worse than those who took the classes on campus. In the algebra class, fewer than a quarter of the students — and only 12 percent of the high school students — earned a passing grade.
但这些试点课程都以失败告终，其中每个课程大约有100人参加。尽管得到了Udacity导师的帮助，但今年春季参与在线课程的学生——其中有很多来自奥克兰一所特许高中——的表现不如在校上课的学生。代数课分数达到及格水平的学生不足四分之一，而高中学生的及格率只有12%。
The program was suspended in July, and it is unclear when, if or how the program will resume. Neither the provost nor the president of San Jose State returned calls, and spokesmen said the university had no comment.
该项目已于今年7月暂停，目前尚不清楚何时、是否以及如何恢复该项目。圣何塞州立大学的教务长和校长都没有回电话，发言人表示该校不予置评。
Whatever happens at San Jose, even the loudest critics of MOOCs do not expect them to fade away. More likely, they will morph into many different shapes: Already, San Jose State is getting good results using videos from edX, a nonprofit MOOC venture, to supplement some classroom sessions, and edX is producing videos to use in some high school Advanced Placement classes. And Coursera, the largest MOOC company, is experimenting with using its courses, along with a facilitator, in small discussion classes at some United States consulates.
无论圣何塞州立大学的项目会怎样，就连那些极力批评MOOC的人都不认为，这些课程就会逐渐消失。更有可能的是，这些课程会转变成很多不同的形式：圣何塞州立大学正在利用edX制作的视频，来对一些课堂教学做出补充，已经取得了良好的效果，并且非营利机构edX还在制作视频，用于高中的部分大学预修课程(Advanced Placement)。最大的MOOC公司Coursera正在尝试将自己的课程在一名协调人的辅助下用于一些美国领事馆的小型讨论课中。
Some MOOC pioneers are working with a different model, so-called connectivist MOOCs, which are more about the connections and communication among students than about the content delivered by a professor.
一些MOOC领域的开拓者正在利用一个不同的模式开展工作，也就是所谓的连接主义MOOC，这种模式更注重学生之间的联系与交流，而不是教授传达的内容。
“It’s like, ‘The MOOC is dead, long live the MOOC,’ ” said Jonathan Rees, a Colorado State University-Pueblo professor who has expressed fears that the online courses would displace professors and be an excuse for cuts in funding. “At the beginning everybody talked about MOOCs being entirely online, but now we’re seeing lots of things that fall in the middle, and even I see the appeal of that.”
“感觉就像是，‘MOOC已死，新MOOC永生，’”科罗拉多州立大学-普韦布洛分校(Colorado State University-Pueblo)的教授乔纳森·里斯(Jonathan Rees)说。他担心，在线课程有一天会取代教授，也会成为削减教育投资的借口。“起初，大家都在讨论MOOC的完全在线，但现在我们看到很多的实践介于在线和线下之间，连我都能看到这么做的好处。”
The intense publicity about MOOCs has nudged almost every university toward developing an Internet strategy.
对MOOC的猛烈宣传推动了几乎所有大学开始开发网络策略。
Given that the wave of publicity about MOOCs began with Mr. Thrun’s artificial-intelligence course, it is fitting that he has become emblematic of a reset in the thinking about MOOCs, after a profile in Fast Company magazine that described him as moving away from college classes in favor of vocational training in partnerships with corporations that would pay a fee.
鉴于MOOC的宣传浪潮始于特龙的人工智能课程，那么由他来代表对MOOC的重新思考也再合适不过了，此前《快公司》(Fast Company)杂志的一篇人物特写称，特龙正在放弃大学课堂，转而与公司合作开展职业教育，这些课程是收费的。
The profile quoted Mr. Thrun as saying the Udacity MOOCs were “a lousy product” and “not a good fit” for disadvantaged students, unleashing a torrent of commentary in the higher-education blogosphere.
这篇特写援引特龙的话说，Udacity推出的MOOC是一个“质次的项目”，“并不适合”处于弱势的学生，此番言论在高等教育博客圈引发了一股评论浪潮。
Mr. Thrun took issue with the article, and said he had never concluded that MOOCs could not work for any particular group of students.
特龙并不认同这篇文章，称自己从未断定MOOC不适合某一特定的学生群体。
“I care about education for everyone, not just the elite,” he said in an interview. “We want to bring high-quality education to everyone, and set up everyone for success. My commitment is unchanged.”
“我关心每个人的教育，不仅仅是精英，”特龙接受采访时说，“我们希望为每个人带来高质量的教育，帮助每个人获得成功。我的承诺没有改变。”
While he said he was “super-excited” about working with corporations to improve job skills, Mr. Thrun said he was working with San Jose State to revamp the software so that future students could have more time to work through the courses.
虽然特龙表示与公司合作提高职业技能让他“十分兴奋”，但他还表示，他也正在与圣何塞州立大学合作改进软件，以便未来的学生能有更多时间完成课程。
“To all those people who declared our experiment a failure, you have to understand how innovation works,” he wrote on his blog. “Few ideas work on the first try. Iteration is key to innovation. We are seeing significant improvement in learning outcomes and student engagement. ”
“那些宣称我们的试验已经失败的人需要理解创新是如何实现的，”特龙在自己的博客写道，“很少有什么点子第一次尝试就会获得成功。创新的关键在于反复尝试。在学习成果和学生的参与度方面，我们都正看到大幅的改善。”