DAMARISCOTTA, Me. — Several years ago, the owner of a sandwich shop on the main drag here grew so tired of turning the clocks back in the fall — and witnessing the early sunsets that followed — that he simply decided not to. That year, he kept his shop on daylight saving time all winter.
缅因州达马里斯科塔——几年前，闹市区一家三明治店的店主厌倦了每年秋天都要把时钟拨回来——然后见证太阳早早地落山——于是他决定不再这么干。那一年的整个冬天，他让自己的店保持夏时制的作息。
“We have such short days,” said Sumner Fernald Richards III, the owner. “It was very nice to get out in the afternoon and still have an hour or two of daylight.”
“我们的白天这么短，”店主苏姆纳·费纳尔多·理查兹三世(Sumber Fernald Richards III)说。“能在下午出门很好，还能享受一两个小时的日光。”
Changing the clocks brings grumbles around the country, and especially here, in the nation’s Easternmost region, where “falling back” in the wintertime means sunsets as early as 4 p.m. and sometimes earlier. But as the clocks once again were nudged ahead to daylight saving time in many parts of the nation over the weekend, foes of turning the clocks back in the first place saw a glimmer of hope in New England.
时间变更在整个国家都激起抱怨，特别是在这个国家最东部的地区，在这里，“拨回”到冬天的时间意味着下午4点太阳就要落山，有时还会更早。但是，在这个周末，当全国许多地方都要把时钟再次拨快到夏令时之际，新英格兰地区那些本来就不想把时间拨回去的人们看到了一丝希望。
Efforts to alter time zones pop up around the country like spring tulips every year, and rarely get very far. But some in New England are trying a different tack this time: They want, in essence, to stay on daylight saving time throughout the year, and think that a concurrent regional approach could be the key. If multiple New England states make the jump at the same time, the thinking goes, it just might happen — even if that means taking the unusual step of splitting from the time zone of the rest of the East Coast, including New York City.
在全国各地，改变时区的努力每一年都像春天里的郁金香一样冒出来，但是很少能够走得很远。但是这一次，一些新英格兰人在尝试另一种方式：他们希望一整年里都保持实际上的夏令时，并且认为关键是整个区域同时实行这种做法。如果新英格兰地区各州同时做出这种变化，人们就会觉得这或许是可行的——即使这意味着要采取一个颇不寻常的步骤，把这些州实行的时间同东海岸时区的其他州分割开来，包括纽约市在内。
“We are a distinct region of the country,” said Tom Emswiler, a health care administrator in Boston who is part of a dedicated smattering of New Englanders pushing for the change. “If New York wants to join us on permanent Atlantic time: Come in, the water’s fine.”
“我们是美国一个独特的地区，”波士顿的医疗行政人员汤姆·埃姆斯维勒(Tom Emswiler)说，他是执着地推动这一变化的一小群新英格兰人之一。“如果纽约想和我们一同采用固定的大西洋时间：那就来吧，挺不错的。”
The efforts to join Atlantic Standard Time would mean that, for about four months out of the year, some New England states would be an hour ahead of the rest of the Eastern time zone. Last year, Massachusetts created a commission to study the question. The states have not coordinated, but in New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Maine, proposals have been filed that could open the possibility for such a change, at the very least, if their powerful neighbor — home to Boston, an economic driver — does.
加入大西洋标准时间意味着，在一年中的大约四个月里，一些新英格兰州的时间将比东部时区其他州早一个小时。去年，马萨诸塞州创建了一个委员会来研究这个问题。这些州之间没有协调，但在新罕布什尔州、罗德岛和缅因州，已经有了相关提议，可以令这种变化成为可能，至少，如果它们的强大邻居、经济领头羊波士顿决定这样做的话。
“Our markets and our businesses would be operating ahead of New York; I don’t know how they’d like that,” State Senator Eileen M. Donoghue of Massachusetts said. She is chairwoman of the state’s commission, which has a major public hearing this week.
“我们的市场和我们的生意运营会比纽约早；我不知道他们会不会喜欢这样，”“马萨诸塞州参议员艾琳·M·多诺霍(Eileen M. Donoghue)说。她是该州相关委员会的主席，本周委员会要举行一次重要的公开听证会。
The idea, the senator said, requires much more study and perhaps, down the line, will merit a summit meeting of the interested states.
参议员说，这个想法需要进行更多研究，也许到最后会引起感兴趣的各州召开一次峰会。
“When you look at the geography, we certainly line up more with the Atlantic time zone,” Ms. Donoghue said. Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and parts of Canada including Nova Scotia are on Atlantic Standard Time now.
“看看地图吧，我们当然更接近大西洋时区，”多诺霍说。波多黎各、美属维尔京群岛和加拿大包括新斯科舍省在内的部分地区现在都实行大西洋标准时间。
Experts say the plan seems unlikely to come to fruition. Even if state legislatures passed these bills — and, so far, only New Hampshire’s House has — it would require either a regulatory action by the federal Department of Transportation, or an act of Congress. The governors of Massachusetts and Rhode Island have expressed reservations about making such a break.
专家说，这个计划似乎不可能实现。即使州立法机构通过了这些法案——到目前为止，只在新罕布什尔州的众议院获得了通过——它还需要一个联邦交通部监管行动或国会法案。对于这个时区的分裂，马萨诸塞州和罗得岛州长表示保留意见。
But the debate has renewed musings about why, exactly, this part of the country is part of a time zone that may better serve cities to its west, and whether the region ought to boldly step away from its neighbors — maybe even on principle.
但是，相关辩论再次令人思考，在这个地区为什么要使用可能更适合西部的时区，以及它是否应该大胆地离开它的邻居们——即便是在原则上。
“Why do we essentially torture ourselves — in the spring in particular — and keep changing the clocks and messing everybody up?” asked Donna Bailey, a Democratic state representative from Saco, Me., who filed a bill on the matter this year. Under the current form of the bill, she said, Maine would have a referendum on the issue if both Massachusetts and New Hampshire made the switch.
“我们为什么要这么折磨自己，不断地改变时间，把所有人都搞糊涂了，特别是在春天？”来自缅因州索科的民主党州众议员唐娜·贝利(Donna Bailey)说，她今年就该问题提交了一份法案。根据该法案目前的形式，她说，如果马萨诸塞州和新罕布什尔州都做出改变，缅因州将就这个问题进行全民公决。
“If we do it on a regional basis,” Ms. Bailey added, “you carve out a niche for yourself, that you don’t have to be so dependent on New York City.”
“如果我们在全地区范围内做出这个改变，”贝利补充说，“就等于为自己创造出一个小环境，而不必那么依赖纽约市。”
Any such switch would create a special complication for Connecticut since the northern part of the state is closely tied to Massachusetts, while many residents of the southern section commute to New York City.
任何类似变化都将给康涅狄格州带来特殊的复杂性，因为该州北部与马萨诸塞州紧密相连，而该州南部的许多居民通勤到纽约市。
The most frequently cited argument against a change is its effect on schoolchildren, who would most likely board buses in the dark on winter mornings. Proponents counter that the whole state of Maine, as well as communities including Boston, are considering pushing school start times back, too.
对于这个改变，最常被引用的反对论据是它对学童的影响，这个改变实施后，冬天早上，他们很可能得在黑暗中乘坐大巴上学。支持者们则反驳说，缅因州以及包括波士顿在内的若干社区也在考虑推迟学生上学时间。
Plus, opponents say, such a change could create confusion for businesses and chaos for passengers taking Amtrak trains from New York to Boston and trying to figure out what time it is. Broadcast schedules — and with them, teams like the Patriots and the Bruins — could be affected as well.
此外，反对者说，这样的变化可能会造成商业上的混乱，乘坐全国铁路客运公司的火车从纽约到波士顿也会糊涂，搞不清到底是什么时间。广播电视时间表——以及像爱国者(Patriots)和棕熊队(Bruins)这样的球队转播——也可能受到影响。
“Once you start toying with the clocks, there are repercussions that people don’t bear in mind,” said Michael Downing, the author of “Spring Forward: The Annual Madness of Daylight Saving Time.”
“一旦你开始摆弄时钟，人们记不住时间，总会产生不良影响，”《春天来了：每年一度的夏令时乱象》(Spring Forward: The Annual Madness of Daylight Saving Time)一书的作者迈克尔·唐宁(Michael Downing)说。