On Christmas Eve, Kevin Johnson received the following gifts: a bed and mattress, a blanket and sheets, a desk and chair, a toilet and sink, towels and washcloths, toothpaste and floss, and a brand-new house.
凯文·约翰逊(Kevin Johnson)在平安夜收到的礼物有：一张床及配套床垫、一条毛毯及配套床单、一组桌椅、一个马桶及水槽、浴巾和毛巾、牙膏和牙线，还有一座崭新的房子。
Mr. Johnson, a 48-year-old day laborer, did not find that last item beneath the Christmas tree, although it nearly would have fit. At 144 square feet — 8 by 18 feet, or roughly the dimensions of a Chevrolet Suburban — the rental house was small. Tiny would be a better descriptor. It was just half the size of the “micro” apartments that former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed for New York City.
48岁的劳工约翰逊并不是在圣诞树下找到这最后一件礼物的，只不过，这件礼物真的摆在树底也勉强放得下。这是座小型出租屋，面积144平方英尺（约合13平方米），8*18英尺（合2.4乘5.5米）见方，跟一台雪佛兰萨博班(Chevrolet Suburban)车差不多大。用“微小”来形容它更为合适。它比纽约市前市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)提出的“微公寓”恰好还要小一半。
This scale bothered Mr. Johnson not at all, and a few weeks after moving in, he listed a few favorite design features. “A roof,” he said. “Heat.” A flush toilet! The tents where he had lived for most of the last seven years hadn’t provided any of those things.
而约翰逊一点也不介意它小，搬进去住了几周后，他列举了一些自己比较喜欢的设计特点。“有房顶，”他说，“有供暖。”还有抽水马桶！他这七年来所住的大部分帐篷，都没有这些条件。
In what seemed like an Oprah stunt of old, Mr. Johnson’s friends (21 men and seven women) also moved into tiny houses on Dec. 24. They had all been members of a homeless community called Camp Quixote, a floating tent city that moved more than 20 times after its founding in 2007.
约翰逊的朋友们（21名男性、7名女性）在12月24日那天也搬进了微型房子里，感觉就像当年《奥普拉秀》里的常用噱头一样。这些人同属一个由无家可归者组成的社区，称为“唐吉诃德营”(Camp Quixote)。这是一个移动的帐篷之城，自2007年成立以来，它已搬迁了20多次。
Beyond its recent good fortune, the settlement was — and is — exceptional. Quixote Village, as it is now called, practices self-governance, with elected leadership and membership rules. While a nonprofit board called Panza funds and guides the project, needing help is not the same thing as being helpless. As Mr. Johnson likes to say, “I’m homeless, not stupid.”
若非最近的运气好，这次迁居无论是在当时还是放到现在，几乎都是不可能发生的。此社区现名为“唐吉诃德村”(Quixote Village)，采取自治制度，拥有选举产生的领导者和成员守则。虽然有非营利组织Panza资助和引导这一项目，不过，需要帮助和无助并不是一回事。正如约翰逊的那句口头禅：“我是无家可归，不是傻子。”
A planning committee, including Mr. Johnson, collaborated with Garner Miller, an architect, to create the new village’s site layout and living model. Later, the plans were presented to an all-camp assembly. “Those were some of the best-run and most efficient meetings I’ve ever been involved in,” said Mr. Miller, a partner at MSGS Architects. “I would do those over a school board any day.”
约翰逊所在的规划委员会与建筑师加纳·米勒(Garner Miller)合作，共同设计了唐吉诃德村的新址布局和生活模式。此后，规划方案提交到了全营会议上审核。“在我参加过的所有会议中，那些会议的组织和效率是数一数二的，”MSGS Architects的合伙人米勒说，“如果哪天，学校董事会也能这样就好了。”
The residents lobbied for a horseshoe layout rather than clusters of cottages, in order to minimize cliques. And they traded interior area for sitting porches. The social space lies outside the cottage. Or as Mr. Johnson put it, “If I don’t want to see anybody, I don’t have to.”
村民们呼吁，新址的设计应采用马蹄形布局，而不是让村舍成片聚集在一起，以最大限度地减少拉帮结派。他们用室内空间交换了可以坐着休息的门廊。社交空间设在村舍之外。正如约翰逊所说，“如果我不想见任何人，我就可以不见。”
It is rare that folks who live on the street have the chance to collaborate on a 2.1-acre, $3.05 million real estate development. Nearly as surprising is that Quixote Village may become a template for homeless housing projects across the country. The community has already hosted delegations from Santa Cruz, Calif.; Portland, Ore.; and Seattle; and fielded inquiries from homeless advocates in Ann Arbor, Mich.; Salt Lake City; and Prince George’s County, Md.
这些露宿街头的人，很少有机会能同一个占地2.1英亩（约合8498平方米）、耗资305万美元（约合人民币1868万元）的房地产开发项目合作。几乎同样令人吃惊的是，唐吉诃德村或许还会在全国范围内，成为面向无家可归者的住房项目典范。该社区已经接待了来自加州圣克鲁斯(Santa Cruz)、俄勒冈州波特兰(Portland)和西雅图(Seattle)的代表团。此外，一些为无家可归者奔走的人士，也专程从密歇根州的安娜堡(Ann Arbor)、盐湖城(Salt Lake City)和马里兰州的乔治王子县(Prince George’s County)来到这里，进行了实地考察。
In a few other cities, “micro-housing” is close to sheltering populations of the chronically homeless. OM Build, a subsidiary of the economic-justice movement Occupy Madison, runs a workshop to construct 99-square-foot wood cabins on wheels in Wisconsin’s capital. After appealing to the City Council for the right to park these structures on lots like church property, Occupy Madison began a $50,000 crowdfunding campaign to build 10 more dwellings. A prototype finished last fall cost $5,000, said Bruce Wallbaum, a workshop organizer. “We could probably do it cheaper, but we’re trying to do a home,” he said, “not a shed or an RV.”
在其它一些城市，“微住宅”的用处已接近专门收容无家可归者了。OM Build是经济正义运动“占领麦迪逊大道”(Occupy Madison)的一个分支，运营着一家建筑事务所，其业务是在威斯康辛州的首府建造一批每个99平方英尺（约合9平方米）的木屋房车。“占领麦迪逊大道”曾向市议会提出申请，要求获得在教会地产等地皮上停泊木屋房车的权利，此后又发起一项5万美元（约合人民币31万元）的众筹活动，以增建十套住宅。去年秋天建成的一套样板房花了5000美元（约合人民币3062元）建筑事务所的发起人之一布鲁斯·瓦尔鲍姆(Bruce Wallbaum)如是说，“再少花点钱也不是不可能，但我们想建造的是个家，”他说，“而不是一个棚屋或休闲车而已。”
Some advantages to building small are obvious. Ginger Segel, of the nonprofit developer Community Frameworks, points to construction costs at Quixote Village of just $19,000 a unit (which included paying labor at the prevailing commercial wage). Showers, laundry and a shared kitchen have been concentrated in a community center. When you add in the cost of site preparation and the community building, the 30 finished units cost $88,000 each.
建造小房子，有一些显而易见的好处。非盈利开发商Community Frameworks的金格尔·席格尔(Ginger segel)指出，唐吉诃德村的每个住宅单元的建设成本只有1.9万美元（约合人民币12万元，包含按照现行商业工资标准支付的人工费）。澡堂、洗衣房和公共厨房都集中在一个社区中心里。如果你把整理土地和社区建筑的花费都算上，那么30套已建成的住宅单元，平均每套的成本为8.8万美元（约合人民币54万元）。 
By comparison, Ms. Segel, 48, said, “I think the typical studio apartment for a homeless adult in western Washington costs between $200,000 and $250,000 to build.” In a sense, though, the difference is meaningless. Olympia and surrounding Thurston County hadn’t built any such housing for homeless adults since 2007.
48岁的席格尔说，相比之下，“我觉得在西华盛顿，为一个无家可归的成年人建造一套单间公寓的成本，一般在20万美元到25万美元（约合人民币122万元到153万元）之间。”只不过从某种程度上讲，这种差别是没有意义的。自2007年以来，奥林匹亚(Olympia)和周边的瑟斯顿县(Thurston County)就没有再为无家可归的成年人建造这类房屋了。
Most of that demographic, an estimated 450 souls, is unemployed. While the residents of Quixote Village are expected to pay 30 percent of their income toward rent, 15 of the 29 individuals reported a sum of zero. Ms. Segel added that the average annual income for the rest of the residents — including wages, pensions and Social Security payments — is about $3,100 each.
据估计，这一群体大概有450人，其中大多数没有工作。尽管唐吉诃德村的居民应该将30%的收入用来交租，但是在那29个人中，有15人报告收入为零。席格尔还说，其他居民的平均年收入——包括薪水、补助和社保——大约为每人3100美元（约合人民币18967元）。
Regular affordable housing is a luxury these folks cannot afford. “This, to my knowledge, is the first example of using micro-housing as subsidized housing for very poor people,” Ms. Segel said. “It’s such an obvious thing. People are living in tents. They’re living in cars. They’re living in the woods.”
常规的经济适用房是这些人负担不起的奢侈品。“将微住宅用作特困人士救济房的做法，据我所知还是首例，”席格尔说，“这件事太明显了。那些人一直是住在帐篷里，住在车里，住在丛林里的。”
The “woods” is both an abstraction and a real place. See the fir trees behind Quixote Village, on the far side of the freight rail tracks? Last summer, Rebekah Johnson (no relation to Mr. Johnson) subsisted out there in a tent with her former boyfriend, just off a bike trail.
这里所说的“丛林”，既是抽象的概念，又是真实的地方。有没有看到唐吉诃德村后面的那片冷杉林？就在货运铁路轨道的另一头。去年夏天，丽贝卡·约翰逊（Rebekah Johnson，和上文的约翰逊没有关系）和她的前男友就住在那里，他们的帐篷位于自行车道边。
“He went to jail, and I just couldn’t stay out there anymore,” Ms. Johnson, 34, said. “If you leave, someone is going to steal your stuff. You’re not very social with people.”
“他坐牢了，我在那里再也呆不下去了，”34岁的约翰逊说，“你一出门，就会有人来偷东西。你跟周围的人也不怎么来往。”
Solitude did not suit Ms. Johnson. On a recent Saturday morning, she was sitting in the community center, calling out to everyone who walked by, while also tucking into a plate of French toast, working on a 500-piece puzzle and flipping through a vampire-hunting novel by Laurell K. Hamilton.
约翰逊不是一个耐得住寂寞的人。最近一个星期六的早晨，她坐在社区中心，对每一个过路的人都打声招呼。她一边狼吞虎咽地吃着一盘法式土司，一边拼着一个包含500块零片的拼图，同时翻阅着劳雷尔·K·汉密尔顿(Laurell K. Hamilton)写的一本吸血鬼猎人的小说。
Ms. Johnson, who last worked as a cashier, ran through a list of the other places she had stayed recently. There was jail, where she landed after her arrest for meth possession. And before that, a drug house. “And before that I was in a three-bedroom apartment,” she said. “I went from living in a home with my children to living in the woods alone.”
约翰逊的上一份工作是收银员。她历数了自己最近住过的其它地方，包括监狱，被捕入狱的原因是私藏大麻。入狱前，她住在一个毒品窝点里。“在此之前，我住在一套三居室的公寓里，”她说，“我从和自己的孩子们一起住在家里，沦为后来一个人住到了丛林里。”
Her oldest child, 15, now stays with his father. “My younger two kids live with my parents,” she continued. “I’m working on going through treatment so I can get my children back.” She went to see “Frozen” with them recently, and they toured her new cottage at Quixote Village just before she moved in.
她的大儿子15岁了，现在和他父亲住在一起。“两个小一点的孩子和我父母住一起，”她继续说，“我正在做戒毒治疗，这样孩子们就能回到我身边了。”她最近和孩子们一起看了《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)，还在迁入唐吉诃德村之前，带他们参观了她在那里的新居。
Custody may be a long way off, Ms. Johnson admitted, but she was trying to look at her circumstances another way. Her children were never going to come see her while she was out in the woods.
约翰逊坦言，被拘留的日子可能还很长，不过她试图从另一个角度看待自己目前的处境。毕竟，她住在丛林里那阵孩子们根本不会来看她。
Jon Waddey, who lives a few cottages away, describes Quixote Village “not as an end, but a means.” He had been cooking in a restaurant that closed, and bottomed out in jail on a felony heroin possession.
乔恩·沃迪(Jon Waddey)住在与她相隔几座村舍的地方，他认为，唐吉诃德村“不是一个终点，而是一种手段”。他曾在一家现已倒闭的餐厅里做厨师，后来因私藏海洛因的重罪入狱。
Even after starting methadone, he was in no state to look for another job. “I had a huge beard,” he said. “I needed a place to shave and shower. I just needed a place to feel human.”
就算已经开始服用美沙酮，他也不在找工作的状态。“我有大胡子，”他说，“我需要一个可以刮胡子、洗澡的地方。我只需要一个地方，能让自己感觉活得像个人样。”
At other homeless shelters, the staff rummaged through your bags, breathalyzed you and kicked you out from morning to evening time. “It’s a horrible feeling having no place to be,” Mr. Waddey, 41, said. At a facility like that, “you’re really made to feel where you’re at.”
在其它的无家可归者收容所，员工会搜查你的包，检测你呼吸中的酒精含量，从早上到傍晚不让你进门。“没有地方安居的感觉很可怕，”41岁的沃迪说，而像唐吉诃德村这样的设施“能让你有归属感。”
Of his new cottage, he said: “I absolutely love it. I have my little writing desk, my reading desk, a lovely view of the trees. In a way, that’s what I’ve always wanted.”
在谈到新居时，他说：“我太喜欢这里了。我有自己的小写字桌和阅读桌，从窗口还能看到绿树成荫的美景。从某种角度讲，这些就是我一直想要的。”
A few weeks after settling into Quixote Village, Mr. Waddey was starting to investigate how long it would take at the Evergreen State College to finish his long-deferred undergraduate degree. At night, he was making his way through the John le Carré BBC mini-series “Smiley’s People,” and cooking for friends in the community kitchen.
入住唐吉诃德村几个星期后，沃迪开始研究自己在常青州立学院(Evergreen State College)要花多久才能完成荒废已久的本科学业。每天晚上，他会收看由约翰·勒·卡雷(John le Carré)的小说改编的BBC迷你剧《史迈利的人马》(Smiley’s People)，还会在社区厨房为朋友们做饭。
“I think cooking is one of the most fundamental things you can do,” Mr. Waddey said. “To feed people and see how happy it makes them.”
“我觉得下厨是你能做的最基本的事情之一，”沃迪说，“你可以用美食招待别人，看着他们吃得很开心的样子。”
The classic image of a tiny home is a grown-up dollhouse, a spot to play make-believe. The scale is humble, but the architectural detail is rich: eyebrow windows, stick-style trusses. This is the jewel box you’ll see on a website like Jay Shafer’s Four Lights Tiny House Company or in a dream-book like Lloyd Kahn’s “Tiny Homes: Simple Shelter.” It stands somewhere on a lost coast, or in a hermit’s hollow: private Edens, places you’d like to be.
微住宅的经典形象是放大版的娃娃屋，一个玩过家家的地方。它的规模虽小，但建筑细节却很丰富，有波形老虎窗和木条桁架。这就是你能在如杰伊·谢弗(Jay Shafer)的Four Lights Tiny House Company这类网站，或一本如劳埃德·卡恩(Lloyd Kahn)的著作《微住宅：简单的避风港》(Tiny Homes: Simple Shelter)这样的书中所能看到的，那种如珠宝盒般的住房。它坐落于某个不为人知的海岸或隐士栖居的山谷：就像私密的伊甸园，是个令人向往的地方。
The tiny houses of Quixote Village, by contrast, stand 10 feet apart in what looks like an industrial park. Check that; the site actually is an industrial park, two miles west of the state capital. Parked across the street is a fleet of gas-delivery trucks.
相比之下，唐吉诃德村的微住宅间距10英尺（约合3米），所在地看起来像个工业园。考证一下就会发现，这处地皮其实就是个工业园，位于华盛顿州首府（即奥林匹亚——译注）以西2英里（约合3公里）。街对面就停着一队天然气运输车。
This is the vacant land that Thurston County gave to Quixote Village on a 41-year lease (at $1 a year). It wasn’t easy to find an agreeable site, said Karen Valenzuela, 64, a county commissioner who supported the project. The next-best location, she said, was “a piece of property adjacent to our county waste and recovery center — known as the county dump.”
这是瑟斯顿县(Thurston County)租给唐吉诃德村的一片空地，租期为41年（年租金1美元[约合人民币6.1元]）。支持这一项目的县委成员、64岁的卡伦·巴伦苏埃拉(Karen Valenzuela) 说，合适的地方不好找。她说，第二候选地“紧挨着我们县的废物和回收中心——人称‘县垃圾场’。”
Before construction began, the planners discovered that you could practically reach the water table with a straw. All this drainage had to go somewhere. And so, during Olympia’s galoshes season, which appears to be eternal, the water collects in three retention ponds qua mud pits.
施工开始前，规划人员发现地下水位太高，很容易探到。排出去的水必须输送到某个地方。于是，在奥林匹亚看似没完没了的“胶鞋季”，三个形同泥坑的澄清池成了积水的地方。
The residents hate these overgrown puddles, Mr. Miller admitted. “I like to joke that you have waterfront property,” he said.
居民们讨厌这些硕大的水坑，米勒坦言。“我喜欢开玩笑，说我们住的地方是水景房，”他说。
The original design called for the community center to have a loft and library, visitors’ quarters and an infirmary. Ultimately, all these items went the way of “value engineering.”
按照原来的设计方案，社区中心将设立一座兼作图书馆和供来访者居住的客房的复式建筑，以及一间医务室。最终，所有这些设施都走上了“工程经济学”的路子。
Likewise, the first drawings of the cottages show handsome cedar-plank siding and cork flooring. The finished units ended up with board-and-batten and bare plywood floors. Almost impossibly, the dimensions shrank, too. Within the five-inch-thick insulated walls, the mattress, bathroom and closet fill up almost half the interior dimensions of 123 square feet. If these houses were any tinier, you could fit them in a bottle.
同样，村舍最开始的设计草图上，还绘制了精美的雪松木壁板和软木地板。结果完工后的单元却采用了薄厚板镶接的壁板，和没有铺地毯的胶合地板。房屋的大小也缩水了，这原本几乎是不可能做到的事。5英寸（约合13厘米）厚的隔热墙围出了123平方英尺（约合11平方米）的室内空间，床垫、浴室和壁橱几乎占去一半的地方。这些房子要是再小一点，你都能把它们装进瓶子了。
“I’ve done plenty of high-design projects, and that’s not what this is at all,” Mr. Miller said. “It’s about providing houses for people who were in tents a month ago.”
“我做过不少高端的设计项目，唐吉诃德村根本不是这种类型，”米勒说，“它的宗旨是给一个月前还在住帐篷的人提供住处。”
Another thing Mr. Miller cut: about half his fee. He had previously volunteered as an overnight host when the tent city quartered at his church, First United Methodist, as part of a seven-church rotation that saw Camp Quixote move every 90 days.
米勒还削减了一样东西：他把自己的佣金减了大约一半。此前，唐吉诃德营在他所属教会——第一联合卫理会(First United Methodist)留宿时，他曾作为一名志愿者，为这个移动帐篷之城在夜间时段尽地主之谊。当时，唐吉诃德营会在七个教堂轮流投宿，每隔90天换一次地方。
It was these same congregants who, after forming relationships with the residents, became the staunchest advocates for a permanent housing site. Jill Severn, a member of the Olympia Unitarian Universalist Congregation, was one of them. “When you pack a City Council meeting with 30 homeless people and 120 nice church people,” she said, “they can’t say no.”
正是这些公理会成员，在与唐吉诃德营的居民打过交道以后，成了支持这些居民争取永久性房屋用地的、最坚定的后盾。奥林匹亚一神普救派公理会(Olympia Unitarian Universalist Congregation)的成员吉尔·塞文(Jill Severn)就是这样一个人。“你要是把30个无家可归的人和120个友善的教会人士塞进市议会的会场（做听证），”她说，“市议会是不可能不被说动的。”
Ask the residents about Ms. Severn, 66, and they will describe her as a Trotskyist, a second mother and a saint. All true — or true-ish. By her own account, she has also done stints as an overnight talk-show host, a garden writer, a union organizer, a speechwriter to two Washington governors and an author of the state’s middle-school civics textbook.
如果你向唐吉诃德村的居民打听塞文这个人，他们会把她称为“托洛茨基主义者”（Trotskyist，托洛茨基主义是马克思主义的一个流派——译注）、再生父母和圣徒。这些评价都是对的，或说有其真实性。据她自己说，她做过的其它工作包括午夜脱口秀主持人、园艺作家、工会组织者、华盛顿州两任州长的讲稿文案员、华盛顿州中学公民教科书的编者。
As the (now former) board chairwoman of Panza, Ms. Severn called on several of those vocations to bring Quixote Village into existence. In 2011, for instance, she cooked a home meal for Hans Dunshee, 60, the Democratic chairman of the Washington State House Capital Budget Committee.
作为Panza的董事会主席（现已卸任），塞文号召了好几名前同事支持唐吉诃德村的建立。比如说，2011年，她在家里亲自下厨，招待了华盛顿州众议院预算委员会(Washington State House Capital Budget Committee)主席、60岁的民主党人汉斯·邓希(Hans Dunshee)。
Ms. Severn’s lobbying campaign was effective. “She got me drunk,” Mr. Dunshee said. Their supper conversation eventually led to a $1.5 million allocation in the capital budget. Joking aside, he praised Quixote Village’s penny-wise approach as a kind of pilot project.
塞文的游说工作取得了成效。“她把我灌醉了，”邓希回忆道。这次饭桌上的谈话最终导致的结果是，唐吉诃德村拿到了150万美元（约合人民币915万元）的预算拨款。玩笑归玩笑，唐吉诃德村作为一个试点性质的项目，在支出上的精打细算得到了他的赞赏。
Frank Chopp, 60, the Democratic speaker of the house, was another backer. “Fifty percent of the homeless have some kind of mental illness,” he said. “The best way of responding to that is housing. It doesn’t have to be much. Just get them out of the rain, and out of the street.”
众议院议长、60岁的民主党人弗兰克·乔普(Frank Chopp)也是一名支持者。“50%的无家可归者患有这样或那样的心理疾病，”他说，“最好的应对方法是让他们有房住。也不需要做太多，只要让他们不再经受风吹雨淋、不再露宿街头就好。”
Still, no one would mistake the homeless for a powerful or popular constituency. Funding 30 cottages is not the kind of act that wins elections.
尽管如此，没有人会误以为，无家可归者就是一个势力强大或广受欢迎的选民群体。资助修建30所村舍，并不是那种能帮人打赢选战的行为。
Mr. Dunshee said: “Speaking as a politician, I don’t think there’s any political value in this. You wake up feeling, I did something decent.”
邓希说：“从一名从政者的角度讲，我不觉得这件事有任何政治价值。你唤醒的是良知，我做了件正派的事情。”
The whole unlikely story of Quixote Village can feel like a Frank Capra movie — reshot through a radical lens by, say, John Sayles or Ken Loach. Ms. Severn said, “In fifth grade, I fell in love with democracy: that people should vote and make choices.”
这整个关于唐吉诃德村的、不可思议的故事，给人的感觉就像弗兰克·卡普拉(Frank Capra)的电影——而且经过像约翰·塞尔斯(John Sayles)或肯·罗奇(Ken Loach)这类导演重拍，采用了激进的视角。塞文说，“5年级的时候，我对民主产生了兴趣，知道人应该投票，应该做出自己的选择。”
The weekly residents’ meeting, which comes after dinner on Wednesday nights, strikes her as the quintessence of direct democracy.
每星期三晚饭后召开的例行居民会议，让她深受震撼，因为它抓住了直接民主的精髓。
Mr. Waddey said: “I’ve left meetings very touched by something someone said. Or very mad. They may be wild, but they’re democratic.”
沃迪说；“散会的时候，想起会上的人说过的话，我有时候很触动，有时候很生气。他们可能是粗人，但他们懂民主。”
A top agenda item in the new location: why, oh why, is there no cable TV?
在新落成的唐吉诃德村里，一个首要议题是：为什么，究竟是为什么，没有有线电视？
Villagers like Arin Long, 28, have been struggling with a related aspect of living in an industrial park. “Point blank: there’s nothing to do,” Ms. Long said. “Especially for drug addicts who are getting clean. And that’s everybody.”
28岁的阿林·朗(Arin Long)等村民正在想尽办法适应工业园的生活。“老实说：根本没事干，” 朗说，“正在戒毒的人尤其会觉得很无聊。而我们每个人都是这样。”
She has tried collaging, beading and sewing new pink curtains for her cottage. (What was wrong with the original set? “Look at them!” she said. “They’re retro — not my style.”) And yet, unexpectedly, Ms. Long said, she has found herself daydreaming about the old Camp Quixote and sleeping rough.
她试图给自己的村舍拼贴和缝制新的粉色窗帘，并用珠子加以装饰。（原来的窗帘怎么了？“看看这些窗帘！”她说，“它们太复古了——不符合我的风格。”）结果却让她意外，朗说，她发现自己在幻想回到原来的唐吉诃德营，过露宿的生活。
There were trenches to dig when it rained — and it always rained — and tarps to tie down in the wind. “I miss that stuff,” she said. “It’s labor. It keeps you busy.”
以前露宿的时候，每次下雨都得挖沟——而天气总是下雨；刮风的时候就得把篷布拴好。“好久没做这种事情了，”她说，“这是体力活，能让你保持忙碌的状态。”
At the same time, other residents like Theresa Bitner, 24, and Brie Wellman, 21, have embraced domesticity without reservations. Their beds are warm, their books are dry and raccoons aren’t getting into their clothes.
与此同时，其他居民——比如24岁的特蕾莎·比特纳(Theresa Bitner)和21岁的布里·威尔曼(Brie Wellman)，则完全融入了定居生活。他们的床是温暖的，书本不会受潮，浣熊也不会钻进他们的衣服里。