For the moment, I am living the life of a tech one-percenter.
暂时来说，我正过着百里挑一的高科技生活。
Atop my desk sits a shiny (and I do mean shiny) new Mac Pro. It’s Apple’s top-of-the-line desktop computer, aimed at, as the name implies, the creative professionals who have always relied on Macs for video, graphics, music and photo manipulation. It makes everything around it look vaguely slower. It also makes me want to increase my homeowner’s insurance, in case of a break-in. The Mac Pro is daring, extravagant and elite — or maybe it’s just for the elite.
我桌子上摆着一个闪闪发光的（确实是亮闪闪的）新Mac Pro。它是苹果公司(Apple)出品的顶尖台式机，正如其名称所示，它面向的是创意领域的专业人士，这些人一直依靠Mac电脑来处理视频、图像、音乐和照片。这台新的Mac Pro让周围一切东西都显得速度略慢。而我也想多投点家庭财产保险，以防万一遭遇了入室盗窃。Mac Pro充满了前卫、奢华和精英的气息——或许它也只为精英服务。
The design is obviously an indulgence. The Mac Pro is a charcoal gray cylinder that stands about 10 inches high and reflects back a distorted, slightly menacing view of the world. The outer layer of the tube is removable, displaying the Pro’s innards in a pleasing industrial array. A cutout at the top of the cylinder creates a lip that acts as a handle, and a visual effect sadly reminiscent of either a trash can or an ashtray.
它的设计显然是放纵而大胆的。Mac Pro是一个炭灰色的圆柱体，大约10英寸（25.4厘米）高，以一种扭曲的、略带威胁性的形象反射出周围的世界。它的外罩可以揭开，展露出Pro内部令人赏心悦目的组件排列。圆柱体顶部的凹陷设计使其边缘可以作为把手，可悲的是，它的视觉效果让人联想到垃圾桶或烟灰缸。
Its affect is deeply futuristic: It looks like a device that might project a hologram, or generate its own singularity. Its blenderlike size makes it suitable for sitting atop a desk, particularly a Lucite desk in an ultramodern sparse loft, or on black aluminum in an ultra-stylish ad agency, graphic design shop or documentary film studio.
Mac Pro散发着强烈的未来主义感：给人一种可以投射全息图像，或者独立产生智慧的感觉。它的尺寸跟搅拌机差不多，因此很适合放在桌子上，特别是在超现代风格的空旷阁楼里，一张有机玻璃材质的写字桌上，或是超时尚的广告公司、平面设计公司或纪录片摄影工作室里，黑色的铝质家具上。
Side note: Apple told me it considers the Mac Pro to be a “portable” desktop; many pro video and graphics editors prefer to travel with their editing rigs. As it happens, I got to test that claim: I picked up my review unit in New York and, later that afternoon, flew to San Francisco with it. Let’s just say that an 11-pound cylinder, handle or no, isn’t the most wieldy of travel companions.
附注：苹果公司告诉我，它认为Mac Pro是“便携式”的台式电脑；很多专业视频和图形编辑都喜欢带着自己的编辑器材到处走。正好我有机会可以检验这种说法：我去纽约取这台评测用的Mac Pro，那天下午晚些时候，我带着它飞到了旧金山。这样说吧，一个11磅重（约5公斤）的圆柱体，无论有没有把手，带着它出门都不怎么容易。
The Mac Pro is extremely, ridiculously fast and powerful. The specifications are nearly mythical. The model Apple lent me has an eight-core Intel processor; you can max out at 12. It has 64 gigabytes of extremely fast memory (most computers have four, eight or maybe 16); two AMD graphics cards that, purchased separately, cost $800 each; and a luxurious and fast one-terabyte solid-state hard drive. As configured, and without a monitor or even a keyboard and mouse, which are not included, the Mac Pro sitting on my desk rings in at $8,099. Shipping is free.
Mac Pro的速度极快，性能强劲，规格之优超乎想象。苹果借给我的这台机器内置了一个8核英特尔(Intel)处理器，最大可以选配12核。它配备了64GB内存，速度极快（大多数电脑内存是4GB、8GB或许16GB）；采用AMD双显卡，如果单独购买，每张显卡需要800美元（约合4850元人民币）；还配备了豪华、快速的1TB固态硬盘。在这样的配置下，不加显示器，甚至也不加键盘和鼠标，本来它们也不含在内，我办公桌上这台Mac Pro的价格为8099美元。送货倒是免费的。
Once it’s running, the Mac Pro is virtually silent, and only a ports panel that illuminates when you move the machine offers any sign of life.
Mac Pro运行的时候非常安静，只有当你移动它时，一个端口面板会亮起来，你才知道机器是开着的。
Nevertheless, the power is evident. The Pro took just over an hour to convert 32 gigabytes of high-definition video into another video format — a job that took over three hours on my quad-core Mac Mini. And although the task noticeably heated up the Mac Pro, its fan stayed quiet, and it didn’t seem perturbed. It’s clearly capable of much more than a mere multimedia professional can throw at it. But I had more in store.
但是它的性能可不含糊。Pro只花了一个小时多一点，就把32 GB的高清视频转换成了另一种视频格式——我的4核Mac Mini需要花3个小时。虽然这个任务让Mac Pro的温度明显升高，但它的风扇依然安静，它也没有显示出吃力的迹象。很显然，多媒体专业人员的任务对它只是小菜一碟。但我也有很多事情让它做。
The target market of professionals for the new Mac Pro has felt neglected in recent years. The last time they got a new Mac Pro desktop was 2010, with a minor speed bump in 2012. That year, Apple quietly killed the 17-inch MacBook Pro laptop, a favorite of creative pros who wanted a truly portable editing rig.
新Mac Pro面向的专业人士目标市场，近几年来有些受冷落。上一次Mac Pro台式机推出新机型是2010年的事情了，而且2012年时，大家还遭受了一个小小的打击。那一年，苹果默默放弃了17英寸MacBook Pro笔记本电脑的生产，对于想要一台真正便携编辑设备的创意领域专业人士来说，那是他们最爱的机型之一。
Meanwhile, Apple’s most recent edition of its Final Cut video editing software, Final Cut Pro X, disappointed many with missing features and a prettier, but dumber interface. Subsequent updates answered these sorts of complaints, and the software was just updated to support the new Mac Pro and, most important, ultra high-definition video manipulation.
与此同时，苹果Final Cut视频编辑软件的最新版本Final Cut Pro X也因为功能缺失，界面虽漂亮却不方便，让很多人备感失望。为了解决这些问题，该软件进行了后续更新；而且它刚刚又再次更新，来支持新的Mac Pro，最重要的是支持超高清视频的处理。
Apple clearly hopes the new Mac Pro will both appease its creative base and lay claim to so-called 4K video editing just as it’s poised to become more mainstream. This video resolution has twice the vertical and horizontal resolution of high-definition video, for much more detailed picture quality. It’s the new darling of movie studios, graphic designers and ad agencies, and 4K (and even 5K, 6K and 8K) cameras are increasingly available to prosumers and even consumers. The land grab is on.
很明显，苹果公司希望新的Mac Pro不仅可以安抚它的创意领域专业用户群，而且可以在4K有望占据更主流地位之际，在4K视频编辑领域占据一席之地。这种视频的分辨率是高清晰度视频垂直和水平分辨率的两倍，提供了细腻得多的图像质量。它是电影工作室、平面设计师和广告公司的新宠，而专业用户，甚至是普通消费者也可以买到越来越多的4K（甚至5K、6K和8K）的摄像器材了。地盘争夺战已经打响。
The Mac Pro offers, in theory, the graphics and processor power to make editing and rendering 4K video feasible -- although Apple doesn’t yet make a monitor capable of displaying 4K. It offers the Mac Pro on its own site alongside a Sharp monitor that costs $3,595.
从理论上讲，Mac Pro提供的图形和处理器能力可以编辑和渲染4K视频，但是苹果还没有推出能够显示4K视频的显示器。在苹果自己的网站上，Mac Pro的旁边摆放的是一台夏普(Sharp)显示器，价格3595美元。
Professionals will wince at the Mac Pro’s lack of internal expandability after they’re done weeping over the prices. There’s no space for additional hard drives inside, as there was in the original Mac Pro tower, and although the graphics cards are theoretically swappable, no cards currently exist that fit in the Mac Pro’s custom slots.
专业用户在为Mac Pro的高昂价格伤心痛哭过后，还会为它的内部配置缺乏扩展性而叹气。跟原来的Mac Pro塔式机箱不一样，圆柱体Mac Pro里没有再加一块硬盘驱动器的空间了，虽然显卡在理论上是可以更换的，但新的Mac Pro插槽并非通用，眼下也没有其他显卡可以插得进去。
Apple says its use of Thunderbolt ports mean external storage or graphics cards add-ons are easy and fast. Thunderbolt uses one cable to connect up to six devices, and supports extremely fast data transferring. The Mac Pro has six Thunderbolt 2 ports, plus four USB 3.0 ports for more commonly used hard drives and peripherals.
苹果公司表示，它采用了Thunderbolt端口，因此连接外置存储器或者显卡等设备既容易，速度又快。Thunderbolt可以用一根线缆连接多达6台设备，并且可以支持非常快的数据传输。Mac Pro配备了6个Thunderbolt 2端口，另外还有4个USB 3.0端口，供你连接比较常用的外置硬盘和外设。
But Thunderbolt devices are still a new technology and therefore rare, plus expensive. For small shops and prosumers, replaceable parts mean extending the life of a computer instead of replacing it. And if they buy the new Mac Pro, they may have to replace it within a couple of years, and replacing an $8,000 computer is no joke.
但是Thunderbolt设备仍然属于一种新技术，因此比较少见，而且价格又还昂贵。对于小型公司和个人专业用户来说，支持可更换的部件意味着延长了一台电脑的使用寿命，而无需另购一台。如果他们购买了这台新的Mac Pro，可能就需要在几年之内再购一台；买一台8000美元的电脑可不是闹着玩的。
Prosumers may like the simplicity of Thunderbolt and the sleek compact nature of the Mac Pro, but in anything but minimum configurations, the price is far more “pro” than “sumer.”
个人专业用户可能会喜欢Thunderbolt的简洁，以及Mac Pro圆滑紧凑的外观，但就算是它的最低配置，价格也非常不亲民。
In car terms, the new Mac Pro is like a Ferrari or a Maserati. It’s gorgeous, sexy and powerful, and a few rich people will probably buy one in order to go fast. But that doesn’t mean it could cut it in Formula One.
用汽车来打比喻，全新的Mac Pro就像是法拉利(Ferrari)或玛莎拉蒂(Maserati)，华丽、性感而强大，少数有钱人可能会为了它的速度购买一辆。但是，那并不是说它就能达到一级方程式赛车的水平。