The Latest
最新消息
■ In China, the benchmark Shanghai composite index opened 6.4 percent lower.
在中国，作为基准的上证指数开盘下跌6.4%。
■ Most other Asian markets stabilized or rallied modestly, swinging from losses to gains. Japanese stocks opened sharply lower but recovered.
亚洲其他主要市场趋于平稳或有小幅回升，由下跌转为上涨。日本股市开盘大幅走低，但随后恢复。
■ The international and American oil benchmarks rebounded tentatively, despite concerns about oversupply.
尽管对于供应过剩的关切依然存在，但国际和美国油价基准出现了暂时性的反弹。
■ Stock markets in the United States traded in a volatile session on Monday, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closing down nearly 4 percent.
周一，美国股市交易震荡，标准普尔500指数以近4%的跌幅报收。
In-Depth
详细情况
After a three-day rout that erased nearly $3 trillion in value from stocks globally, markets on Tuesday showed signs that selling pressures were easing.
在三天的崩溃抹去了全球股市近3万亿美元的市值后，周二股市显露出抛售压力减轻的迹象。
Volatility continued to dominate early trading in Asia, but many regional markets swung from losses to gains for the first time in days. Stocks in Japan opened sharply lower but had recovered by late morning, while shares in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea were staging a modest rally.
震荡持续主导亚洲股市早盘，但许多地区性股市在近日首次由下跌转为上涨。日本股市开盘大幅走低，但随后在午前恢复，而澳大利亚、香港、新加坡和韩国股市小幅上涨。
Across Asia, the free fall of the past few days appeared to have ended — except in China, where Shanghai stocks opened 6.4 percent lower after Monday’s 8.5 percent plunge.
纵观亚洲，过去几天的自由落体式下跌似乎已经停止——除了中国，上海股市在周一8.5%的暴跌后，开盘下跌6.4%。
Markets around the world have been jolted in recent days by concerns over China’s economic malaise and investors’ newfound distaste for emerging markets, which for a decade had been viewed as promising engines of global growth.
全球股市近日因对于中国经济低迷的忧虑和投资者对于新兴市场的丧失兴趣而震荡，而中国和新兴市场在数十年来被看作是全球经济增长的有力引擎。
The sell-off had weighed heavily on commodities and regional currencies, pushing the prices of many to their lowest levels since the financial crisis.
抛售给大宗商品和地区性货币带来了沉重的压力，迫使其中许多大宗商品和货币的价格降至金融危机以来的最低点。
But signs of a rebound emerged in early Asian trading on Tuesday. Many Asian currencies rose against the dollar for the first time in days. The Japanese yen, a regional haven currency, slipped against the dollar after a four-day rally.
但是周二，亚洲股市早盘出现了反弹的迹象。许多亚洲货币对美元汇率近日来首次上涨。地区避险货币日元对美元汇率在连续四天上涨后下滑。
Futures contracts for American and European benchmark oil prices rose sharply. Industrial metals also rose. Shanghai copper futures rose more than 1 percent in morning trading.
美国和欧洲基准原油期货合约价格大幅上涨。同样上涨的还有工业金属。沪铜期货在早盘上涨了超过1%。
However, big questions about the health of China’s economy, and the capacity of the country’s leaders to manage its slowdown, remain unanswered.
但是，有关中国经济的健康，以及该国领导人对于经济增速放缓应对能力的大问题，仍然有待回答。
The slump in China’s stock market has come amid conflicting signals from Beijing.
与中国股市大跌同时到来的，还有北京释放的矛盾信号。
After a tremendous rally fizzled in June, the Chinese government resorted to exceptional measures to try to prop up share prices, including ordering state agencies to buy shares and banning large shareholders from selling. Those measures now appear to have failed.
在一轮空前的大涨于6月终结后，中国政府采取了一系列不寻常的举措以试图拉抬股价，其中包括命令国有机构买入股票，以及禁止大型持股人售出股票。这些举措目前似乎已经失败。
By late morning on Tuesday, China’s were the only major markets in Asia still in negative territory. The Shanghai index was trading at its lowest level so far this year, down about 4 percent from Monday, while Shenzhen was 5 percent lower.
截至周二午前，中国股市是亚洲主要市场中唯一仍在下跌的。上证综指在今年以来的最低点徘徊，较周一下跌了近4%，而深证成指下跌了5%。
“The slump in the stock markets is destroying what remains of investor confidence, and this problem is profoundly serious,” said a front-page commentary on Tuesday in the official Securities Daily, defending interventionist policies.
官方的《证券日报》在周二的头版评论中为政府干预辩护称，“股市暴跌正在摧毁投资者仅存的信心，这一问题极其严峻。”
However, a rival commentary in another official news outlet, The Economic Information Daily, said that it was time for the government to step back from shoring up the stock market.
但是，另一家官方媒体《经济参考报》刊登的不同意见称，现在是政府停止拉抬股市，后退一步的时候了。
“The domestic policy focus should be on steadily retreating from stock market bailout policies,” the front-page commentary said. “Government bailouts are meant to avert financial risks, not to prop up stock prices.”
“国内政策的定力还应表现在股市救市政策的逐步退出之上，”这一头版评论称，“政府救市是为了防控金融风险，而非托举股指。”