When it comes to investing in emerging markets, few companies have been as gung-ho as Diageo, the British maker of the Guinness, Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff brands. But now that troubles are cropping up in many such countries around the world, Diageo has turned from cheerleader to excuse-monger.
说到投资新兴市场，很少有哪些公司像生产健力士(Guinness)、尊尼获加(Johnnie Walker)和斯米诺(Smirnoff)三大品牌产品的英国企业帝亚吉欧(Diageo)那么热心。但现在，由于全世界许多新兴市场国家都出现了麻烦，帝亚吉欧已经从摇旗呐喊变成了四处辩解。
Government crackdowns on high-end drinking in China. Inflation and currency worries in Argentina and Venezuela. Political turmoil in Thailand; saturated beer markets in Nigeria; a religious backlash in Turkey. These and other adversities were cited by company officials this year when Diageo announced disappointing profits.
今年，帝亚吉欧公布令人失望的盈利情况时，公司高管给出的理由包括中国政府对高官饮酒的管束、阿根廷和委内瑞拉的通货膨胀和汇率引发的担忧、泰国的政治动荡、尼日利亚饱和的啤酒市场、土耳其宗教力量的回潮，以及其他一些难题。
And like Diageo, a number of other multinational corporations have recently blamed turmoil in emerging markets for dents in their bottom lines.
像帝亚吉欧一样，最近大批其他跨国企业也将利润下滑归咎于新兴市场的波动。
From consumer-oriented outfits like Procter & Gamble, Yum Brands and Coca-Cola to technology leaders like IBM and Cisco, companies that crowed for more than a decade about their exposure to these booming economies are now eating more than a little crow. They have cut growth forecasts as debt levels rise and political complications take center stage in numerous developing nations, with attention recently swinging to the risk of war between Russia and Ukraine.
从宝洁(Procter & Gamble)、百胜(Yum Brands)、可口可乐(Coca-Cola)这样面向消费者的企业，到IBM和思科(Cisco)这样的科技产业领导者，十多年前涌向这些繁荣经济体时，曾为此洋洋自得，但现在却锐气大减。随着众多发展中国家债务水平的上升，复杂的政治局势成为关注的焦点，这些公司已调低了增长预期。最近，人们的注意力转向了俄罗斯和乌克兰可能会开战的风险。
The latest casualty has been Danone, the French yogurt giant, which generated more than 60 percent of its 21 billion euros ($28.9 billion) in sales last year from emerging markets. Russia is its top market in the developing world.
最新的受害者是法国酸奶业巨头达能(Danone)。在该公司去年210亿欧元（289亿美元，约合1770亿元人民币）的销售额中，60%以上来自新兴市场。俄罗斯是其在发展中国家里的第一大市场。
So it was not entirely surprising that Danone reported its first profit drop in a decade last month, and that its stock took a sharp hit on Monday, when tensions were running high between Moscow and Kiev.
因此，在俄罗斯与乌克兰之间的紧张日益加剧之际，达能上月披露公司利润10年来首度下降，同时该公司股价也在周一大幅下跌也就不足为怪了。
None of the big globe-spanning companies are giving up on the developing world, of course, since prospects generally remain stronger there than in the advanced, industrial nations.
当然，这些在全球扩张的大公司中，没有哪一家放弃发展中国家，因为那里的前景依然普遍比先进的工业化国家更乐观。
But even a stellar performer like IBM — which recently announced that it was working to reach 30 percent of sales from growth economies by 2015, compared with about 22 percent when it set the target — disclosed this year that its sales to China were down 23 percent. Yum Brands, the company behind KFC and Pizza Hut, said in January that its earnings per share for 2013 were down 9 percent compared with the previous year. China, where the company gets 50 percent of its revenue, was responsible for much of the retreat, partly because of a government investigation of one of Yum’s chicken suppliers.
但即便是像IBM这种表现优异的企业，也在今年透露面向中国的销售额下降了23%。前不久，该公司宣布，到2015年，将会把来自发展中国家的销售额比例提高到30%，而最初设定的目标比例是22%。旗下拥有肯德基(KFC)和必胜客(Pizza Hut)的百胜在1月表示，公司2013年的每股收益较前一年下降9%。该公司50%的营业收入来自中国。中国也是导致该公司业绩下滑的很大一个原因，这在一定程度上是因为中国政府对百胜的一家鸡肉供应商进行了调查。
“There is a level of expectation that has been disappointed,” said Tobias Levkovich, an equity strategist at Citigroup who recently published a report on which companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had the most exposure to emerging markets.
“预期在一定程度上未能实现，”花旗集团(Citigroup)股票策略师托比亚斯·列夫科维奇(Tobias Levkovich)说。前不久，列夫科维奇发表的一份报告分析了标普500股指(Standard & Poor's 500)中的哪些企业投资新兴市场的力度最大。
Mr. Levkovich counts 51 companies that depend on the developing world for at least 20 percent of their sales. Since worries began over emerging countries’ prospects last summer, he noted, his emerging-markets index has trailed the market on the upswing, while also performing worse when stocks are heading lower.
根据列夫科维奇的统计，至少有20%的销售额依赖发展中国家的公司有51家。他指出，自从去年夏天市场开始对新兴经济体的前景产生担忧以来，他的新兴市场指数在行情上行时的表现低于大市，在行情下挫是表现也会更差。
From now on, he said, “investors will look at this stuff much more closely.”
他说，从现在开始，“投资者会更密切地关注这种东西”。
There are exceptions. Companies like Caterpillar, which sells heavy machinery, and Volkswagen, which sells cars, continue to perform well in China and other fast-growing economies.
不过，也存在例外。销售重型机械的卡特彼勒(Caterpillar)与经营汽车业务的大众(Volkswagen)继续在中国等高速增长的经济体中表现良好。
Among the excuses that companies have put forward, it is noteworthy that some of the more profound setbacks cited are those that reflect more of a cultural disconnect than economic maladies.
在企业给出的各种理由中，值得注意的是，某些较为严重的挫折，更多地反映的是文化割裂，而非经济问题。