It first spread on social media, rippling through immigrant communities like the opposite of fear and rumor: a call to boycott. In the New York region and around the country, many cooks, carpenters, plumbers, cleaners and grocery store owners decided to answer it and not work Thursday as part of a national “day without immigrants” in protest of the Trump administration’s policies toward them.
展开抵制活动的呼声最早是在社交媒体上开始传播的，作为担忧和谣传的对立面在移民群体中散布。在纽约地区和全美各地，很多厨师、木匠、管道工、清洁工和食品杂货店老板决定予以响应，周四不工作，参加一个名为“没有移民的一天”的全国性活动，以抗议特朗普政府针对他们的政策。
The protest called for immigrants, whether naturalized citizens or unauthorized, to stay home from work or school, close their businesses and abstain from shopping. People planned for it in restaurant staff meetings, on construction sites and on commuter buses, but the movement spread mostly on Facebook and via WhatsApp, the messaging service. No national group organized the action.
这场抗议呼吁移民待在家里不去上班或上学、关闭企业、放弃购物，不管是已入籍的公民还是非法移民。人们是在餐厅员工会议、建筑工地和通勤公交车上筹划这场运动的，但它的传播主要是通过Facebook和即时通讯服务平台WhatsApp进行的。没有全国性的团体参与组织这场行动。
“It’s like the Arab Spring,” said Manuel Castro, the executive director of NICE, the New Immigrant Community Empowerment, which works primarily with Hispanic immigrant day laborers in New York. “Our members were coming to us, asking what the plan was. Frankly, it kind of came out of nowhere.”
“就像阿拉伯之春一样，”主要和纽约按天计酬的西语裔移民临时工合作的组织“新移民群体赋权”（New Immigrant Community Empowerment，简称NICE）的总干事马努埃尔·卡斯特罗(Manuel Castro)说。“我们的成员来找我们，问有什么计划。坦率地说，有点儿凭空冒出来的感觉。”
But what began as a grass-roots movement quickly reached the highest levels of federal government. In Washington, the Pentagon warned its employees that a number of its food concessions, including Sbarro’s, Starbucks and Taco Bell, were closed because immigrant employees had stayed home and that they could expect longer lines at restaurants that were open.
它一开始只是一场草根运动，但很快便影响到了联邦政府的最高机构。在华盛顿，五角大楼警告雇员，包括斯巴罗(Sbarro's)、星巴克(Starbucks)和塔可贝尔(Taco Bell)在内的很多楼内餐饮场所都因为移民雇员待在家里而关门了，并表示在开门营业的餐厅，排队的队伍预计会更长。
Restaurants, from San Francisco to Phoenix to Washington, D.C., were some of the most visible spots affected, with well-known chefs closing some of their eateries for the day in support. Rick Bayless, the Chicago chef and owner of the Frontera Grill, announced on social media that he was closing several of his restaurants “out of respect” for his staff’s vote to support the action.
从旧金山到菲尼克斯再到华盛顿特区，餐厅都是受影响最明显的地方之一。一些知名大厨让自己的部分餐厅停业一天，表示支持。芝加哥大厨、Frontera Grill餐厅的老板里克·贝利斯(Rick Bayless)在社交媒体上宣布，出于对员工支持该行动的权利的“尊重”，他名下的多家餐厅将关门。
Some schools and child-care centers across the country experienced a drop in attendance.
全国各地的一些学校和托儿所出现了出勤率下降的情况。
At KIPP Austin Comunidad, a majority-Hispanic charter school in Austin, Texas, one teacher posted on Twitter that only seven of her 26 students came to school Thursday.
在德克萨斯州奥斯汀西语裔学生占多数的特许公立学校KIPP奥斯汀地区学校(KIPP Austin Comunidad)，一位老师在Twitter上发帖称，周四当天，她的26个学生中只有7人到校。
“Some of our school buses were coming to school with two and four children on them,” said Sarah Gonzales, a second-grade bilingual teacher at the school. “Nothing like this has ever happened before.”
“我们学校的一些校车抵达学校时，车里只坐了两个或四个学生，”该校教二年级的双语老师萨拉·冈萨雷斯(Sarah Gonzales)说。“以前从没发生过这种事。”
By the end of the day, the KIPP Austin Public Schools network executive director, Steven Epstein, said only 60 percent of students attended its 10 schools with 5,000 students. Usually the attendance rate is 98 percent or above.
到周四结束时，KIPP奥斯汀公立学校(KIPP Austin Public Schools)系统的负责人斯蒂文·爱普斯坦(Steven Epstein)说，在该系统10所学校的5000名学生中，仅60%的学生到校上课。通常，出勤率都在98%或以上。
But cities did not grind to a halt, and for most people, the action registered as an inconvenience — a longer wait for lunch, a favorite restaurant closed, a bus driver who wasn’t there.
但城市并没有慢慢停下来，并且对大部分人来说，这场行动只代表着些许不便：吃午饭等得更久、最喜欢的餐厅关门了、没有公交车司机。
In the Hasidic neighborhood of Borough Park, Brooklyn, some customers noticed the absence of the usual Latino immigrant employees at their local stores.
在布鲁克林信奉哈西德教派的地区市镇公园，一些消费者注意到，在他们当地的店铺里，平常会看到的拉美裔移民员工不见了。
“I thought, ‘Oy, my coffee will not be as good as any day,’ but I felt, ‘good for them, they are standing up for their rights” said Rabbi Joel Labin, 34, a writer and activist who shopped at Center Fresh market. “We grew up with these stories. I hear from my grandparents the issue of immigration from Europe. I feel like it’s kind of my story, too.”
“我想，‘哎呀，我的咖啡不会像平时那么好喝了，’但我觉得，‘对他们来说是好事，他们是在捍卫自己的权利，”在中心新鲜市场(Center Fresh)采购的拉比乔尔·拉宾(Rabbi Joel Labin)说。34岁的拉宾是一名作家、活动人士。“我们是听着这些故事长大的。我会从祖父母那里听到从欧洲移民的问题。我觉得这好像也是我的故事。”
The Mexican work force, known for showing up to jobs even amid hurricanes, participated in large numbers in New York. In Sunset Park, Brooklyn, most bakeries and taquerias were closed, and a public library was crowded with parents and children they kept home from school.
墨西哥移民以即便是飓风天气也会到岗而闻名。他们中的很多人参加了纽约的活动。在布鲁克林的日落公园，大部分面包店和墨西哥快餐店都关门了，一家公立图书馆里挤满了家长和没去上学的孩子。
The action was not limited to Hispanic immigrants: In several blocks in Brooklyn, virtually all stores were shuttered on Thursday, as part of a protest planned by Pakistani shop owners. There, an auto repair shop on Coney Island Avenue posted a handmade sign on its pulled-down metal shutter: “We Are Immigrants.”
这场行动并不仅限于西语裔移民：周四，在布鲁克林的多个街区，几乎所有店铺都关门，加入了一场由巴基斯坦店主策划的抗议活动。在那里，科尼岛大道上的一家汽车修理铺在拉下的金属卷闸门上贴了一个手工做的告示牌，上面写着：“我们是移民。”
The driver of a discount shuttle bus outside the Port Authority Bus Terminal, Sam Ahmad, originally from Egypt, said Wednesday night that he was not going to work Thursday and many members of his mosque in New Jersey would not, either. Asked why, Ahmad, 57, said, “Because that crazy guy,” he said, referring to President Donald Trump. “Because I’m Muslim and I got a lot of family here. They can get separated, and it’s not right. Our children are born here and grow up here.”
周三晚上，在港务局公交总站(Port Authority Bus Terminal)外面，一辆打折班车来自埃及的司机萨姆·艾哈迈德(Sam Ahmad)说，他周四不会上班，他所在的那座位于新泽西的清真寺的很多教众也不会去上班。被问到为什么时，57岁的艾哈迈德说，“因为那个疯子，”他指的是唐纳德·特朗普总统。“因为我是穆斯林，我有很多家人这里。他们可能会被分开，这是不对的。我们的孩子在这里出生，在这里长大。”
It did seem that in New York, at least, pockets of the nonunion construction industry were shut down.
至少在纽约，部分没有工会组织的建筑工地似乎的确停工了。
A 28-year-old carpenter from Cuenca, Ecuador, who gave only his first name, Santiago, said in Spanish that at his construction site in Queens, a supervisor asked Wednesday whether workers were coming the next day. They were not, the workers told him.
28岁的圣地亚哥(Santiago)只愿透露自己的名字。作为一名来自厄瓜多尔昆卡的木匠，他用西班牙语说，在皇后区他所在的建筑工地上，一名主管周三问工人们第二天来不来上班。工人们告诉他不会去。
About 500 people from several companies were employed at the site, Santiago said, including carpenters, electricians and plumbers.
圣地亚哥说，那个工地从多家公司雇了大约500人，包括木工、电工和管道工。
The Davis Museum at Wellesley College took an innovative approach to the protest. It removed or cloaked 120 works of art that had either created by an immigrant or donated by an immigrant — about 20 percent of the museum’s display.
对于这次抗议，卫斯理学院戴维斯博物馆(Davis Museum at Wellesley College)采取了一种颇有创意的方式。120件由移民创作或捐赠的艺术品被撤下或盖住了，它们约占博物馆展品的20%。
With entire galleries shrouded in black felt and placards replacing paintings, the director of the museum, Lisa Fischman said, “I’ve been calling it an intervention, because it takes what we have and reframes it.”
该博物馆多个陈列室全部被黑色毛毡盖上，多幅画作被布告所取代。馆长莉莎·菲施曼(Lisa Fischman)说，“我一直说这是一种干涉性手段，因为它运用了我们所拥有的东西，用一种新方法将其展示出来。”
The protest seemed to get less traction in downtown Boston, with a few restaurants and stores closing. Still, a number of places posted supportive messages on social media, such as one from Eataly Boston, the Italian marketplace, which shows a picture of pasta, olive oil, wine, coffee beans and other goods with the headline: “We were all imported.”
在波士顿市中心，抗议得到的认同似乎要少一些，只有少量餐厅和店铺关门。不过还是有很多地方在社交媒体上发表支持性的讯息，比如意大利集市Eataly Boston就发布了一幅图片，标题是“我们都是进口的”，下面是意面、橄榄油、葡萄酒、咖啡豆和其他商品。