David Parting, a reader in Germany, wrote that a Donald J. Trump presidency could mend ties between the United States and Russia, which would “overall reduce the potential for international conflicts.”
德国读者戴维·帕尔廷(David Parting)写道，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)担任总统可能会修复美国与俄罗斯的关系，这将“全面减少国际冲突的可能性”。
Nadim Kobeissi, a Lebanese immigrant living in France, said he feared personal ramifications from the election of Mr. Trump.
住在法国的黎巴嫩移民纳迪姆·科贝西(Nadim Kobeissi)说，他担心特朗普当选可能会给他个人造成影响。
“My partner and I, both Arab immigrants, already witness enough xenophobia, and there is a fear that Trump’s victory only further legitimizes this sort of discourse around the world,” he wrote to The Times.
“我和我的伴侣都是阿拉伯移民，我们已经看到太多仇外情绪，我们担心，特朗普获胜只会令世界各地的这种言论显得更加正当，”他在给时报的信中写道。
We asked our readers outside of the United States to tell us how the election might affect their family and country. We received more than 800 responses. Nearly every region of the world was represented, but almost 40 percent came from Western Europe and almost 20 percent from Canada.
我们请美国之外的读者告诉我们，这次大选可能会怎样影响他们的家庭和国家。我们收到800多条回复，几乎代表了世界上的每个地区，不过近40％的回复来自西欧，近20％来自加拿大。
A large group of readers focused on how the new administration would affect trade and their nation’s — and family’s — economic prospects. Many others discussed security issues. And some people of color and women raised questions about how Mr. Trump’s inflammatory language might change discourse worldwide and possibly lead to more hate crimes.
很多读者关注新政府将如何影响贸易以及他们国家和家庭的经济前景。还有很多人讨论了安全问题。一些有色人种和女性提到，特朗普令人激愤的言论可能会改变世界各地的言论，导致更多仇恨犯罪。
Here is a selection of the responses; they have been edited and condensed.
以下是部分回复，经过编辑和缩减。
Security and Aid
安全与援助
“Trump’s antiterror policies might give Pakistan a jolt and help us curb terror and save many hundreds of lives that are lost to these terrorists from across the border.”
“特朗普的反恐政策可能会令巴基斯坦振奋，帮助我们遏制恐怖主义活动，挽救可能丧命于邻国恐怖分子之手的成百上千个生命。”
Kartikey, India
卡蒂基(Kartikey)，印度
“The impact shall be likely on the scaling down of humanitarian aid.”
“造成的影响很可能是人道主义援助的减少。”
Simon Ruwuke Hove, Zimbabwe
西蒙·卢乌科·霍弗(Simon Ruwuke Hove)，津巴布韦
“I think the most tangible is that we as NATO allies should start to take our own security more serious. I believe that is only fair, so we should prepare to pay our share of the bill.”
“我认为，最明显的影响是，作为北约盟国，我们必须开始更严肃地对待自己的安保。我认为那是公平的，所以我们必须准备支付自己的那一份账单。”
Peter Hendrikx, the Netherlands
彼得· 亨德里克斯(Peter Hendrikx)，荷兰
“When it comes to relations to Russia, which are a bit tense, I’m quite sure Trump is better than Clinton. In my opinion the attitude toward Russia has been way too negative here in Europe. Of course, there are a lot of problems with Russia not being a democracy and all, but that big country in the East has been in far worse condition and extremely more dangerous in the past than it is now.”
“与俄罗斯的关系有点紧张，但我相信，特朗普比克林顿更好。在我看来，欧洲对俄罗斯的态度太过负面。当然，俄罗斯有很多问题，比如它不是民主国家之类的。但是，这个东方大国过去的情况比现在要糟糕得多，危险得多。”
Sven Jans, Sweden
斯文·扬斯(Sven Jans)，瑞典
“I hope he can apply his skill in bullying people this time for good — and his own place in history — by getting Netanyahu and the Palestinians to make peace for their people’s future and the world’s stability. My husband, son and daughter have served in the army; I hope my grandchildren will never be in danger in the same way.”
“我希望，这一次他能把自己恃强凌弱的本领用在有益的地方，确立自己在历史上的地位——让内塔尼亚胡和巴勒斯坦人为了人民的未来和世界的稳定而保持和平。我的丈夫、儿子和女儿都曾在军中服役，我希望我的孙子辈再也不用承担同样的危险。”
Elinore Liebersohn Koenigsfeld, Israel
埃莉诺·利埃博森· 柯尼格斯费尔德(Elinore Liebersohn Koenigsfeld)，以色列
“I am deeply concerned with president-elect Mr. Trump for obvious reasons, but I am honestly relieved that Ms. Clinton couldn’t get the job. Her foreign policy frightened me in terms of going back to the Cold War era. She is, unlike Mr. Obama, an interventionist, who would have inflamed international tensions, leaving Germany (and Europe) in an acid test between the West and East, facing armament.”
“特朗普当选总统令我非常担忧，原因显而易见，但是坦白地说，我很庆幸克林顿没有得到这个职位。她的外交政策让我担心会回到冷战时代。跟奥巴马不同，她是一个干预主义者，会令国际局势更加紧张，令德国（和欧洲）处于东西方的严峻考验之中，面临军备竞赛的可能。”
Christian Weidner, Germany
克里斯蒂安· 魏德纳(Christian Weidner)，德国
“I think it brings hard time and aggression from Washington as Mr. Trump is unpredictable.”
“我认为，形势会很严酷，美国可能会发动攻击，因为特朗普不可预测。”
Khawar Mehmood, Pakistan
卡沃· 梅赫默德(Khawar Mehmood)，巴基斯坦
“It will be good for Europe, once President Trump is clear about his policy in fighting ISIS alongside Russia, holding a strong position in the region just like Russia, by doing the right thing, killing terrorists.”
“这对欧洲有好处，只要特朗普总统清楚宣布，美国会与俄罗斯共同打击伊斯兰国，像俄罗斯那样在该地区占据强大地位，做正确的事情，杀死恐怖分子。”
Maria da Graça, Portugal
玛莉亚·达格拉萨(Maria da Graça)，葡萄牙
Economic Impact
经济影响
“His plan to send back migrants will have a very deep impact in the social and economic conditions of my home country, place of origin of thousands of migrant workers.”
“他遣送移民的计划将对我祖国的社会和经济状况产生深远的影响，从那里来的移民数以万计。
Otton Solis, Costa Rica
奥顿·索利斯(Otton Solis)，哥斯达黎加
“It has already take down the value of our currency.”
“它已经导致我们的货币贬值。”
Jose Franco, Mexico
何塞·佛朗哥(Jose Franco)，墨西哥
“Heads of state who succeed in generating wealth are rare. When that happens everyone is benefited, unfortunately the world lacks leaders with this ability, but there is no doubt that Donald Trump is one of these men. It will surely bring great progress to the United States and to the world.”
“成功创造财富的国家元首很少。当这种情况发生时，所有人都会受益，不幸的是，世界缺乏具有这种能力的领导者，但毫无疑问，唐纳德·特朗普是其中一个。它一定会给美国和全世界带来巨大进步。”
George Monteiro, Brazil
乔治· 蒙泰罗(George Monteiro)，巴西
“If America proceeds with protectionism and nixes Nafta, it might force Canada to seek out other trade partners. This would be painful in the short-term, but could potentially be beneficial in the future, where we are not so dependent on the U.S.”
“如果美国继续实行保护主义，否定《北美自由贸易协定》(Nafta)，那么它可能迫使加拿大寻找其他贸易伙伴。这在短期内可能是痛苦的，但在未来可能是有益的，我们可能不再如此依赖美国。”
Jia Lu, Chinese Canadian
陆嘉（音），加拿大华裔
“Locals are concerned that Trump will stir up trouble with China, and destabilize the region. China is easily Australia’s largest trading partner, and a lot of our economic prosperity rests on stable relations with them.”
“澳洲人担心，特朗普可能会挑起与中国的冲突，破坏地区稳定。中国显然是澳大利亚最大的贸易伙伴，我们的经济繁荣很大程度上取决于与它的稳定关系。”
James King, Australia
詹姆斯·金(James King)，澳大利亚
“Trump has called Nafta a disaster, the worst trade deal ever. Presumably, he will revoke it, or try to renegotiate its terms. Trade deals don’t work as zero-sum equations. Nafta works because it has benefited all three of our North American economies. The Canadian market for consumer goods is relatively small and spread out along an east-west axis. If north-south trade is disrupted in both manufactured goods and agricultural products, the impact on the Canadian economy will be devastating.”
“特朗普称Nafta是一场灾难，是有史以来最烂的贸易协定。他可能会废除它，或尝试重新协商它的条款。贸易协定不是零和等式。Nafta是起作用的，因为我们三个北美经济体都能从中受益。加拿大的消费品市场相对较小，沿一道东西向轴线分布。如果制成品和农产品的南北贸易遭到破坏，对加拿大经济的影响将是毁灭性的。”
Wally Seccombe, Canada
沃利·塞科姆(Wally Seccombe)，加拿大
“Our economy might benefit if Trump and the Republicans manage to get the Keystone XL pipeline built. However, I doubt this would offset the many negative effects his presidency could have on the Canadian economy generally and Alberta’s nonoil industries, such as agriculture and forestry.”
“如果特朗普和共和党人设法建成Keystone XL输油管道，我们的经济可能会受益。不过我觉得，这无法抵消他担任总统对加拿大整体经济和艾伯塔省非石油产业的诸多负面影响，比如农业和林业。”
Robert Bott, Canada
罗伯特·博特(Robert Bott)，加拿大
Access to the United States
美国的开放程度
“I have two kids studying in the U.S. and an ex-spouse who holds H-1B visa. If he insists on deporting people with certain religious backgrounds and clamping down on the said visa, of course the future will be bleak for my family.”
“我有两个孩子在美国读书，前配偶持有H-1B签证。如果他坚持驱逐具有某些宗教背景的人，取缔上述签证，我们家的未来肯定是黯淡的。”
Zunaibi Abdullah, Malaysia
祖纳比· 阿卜杜拉(Zunaibi Abdullah)，马来西亚
Political Repercussions
政治影响
“I believe it is highly likely that Mr. Trump’s election will contribute [to] fueling the ambition of outsiders and would-be populist candidates in my country Chile, and the entire Latin American region for that matter.
“我认为，特朗普当选极有可能助长我的国家智利和整个拉美地区的局外人和潜在民粹主义候选人的气势。
“Populism, mostly left-wing oriented populism, is already getting traction among Chileans, most notably among the youngest generations. The whole idea that with your vote you can now actually shake the status quo and bring about deep changes across the board is becoming stronger within the Chilean society.”
“民粹主义，主要是左翼民粹主义，已经在吸引智利人，尤其是最年轻的一代。现在，通过投票真的能够动摇现状、给各个方面带来深刻变化这个理念，正在智利社会变得愈加强烈。”
Luis Alberto Pino, Chile
路易斯·阿尔贝托(Luis Alberto Pino)，智利
“In Africa in general and Central Africa in particular, we are afraid that Trump policy will be concentrated only on the United States. There will be no African policy at all. This situation will advantage dictators who are presently ruling.”
“在非洲，尤其是中非，我们担心，特朗普的政策将只关注美国。根本不会有非洲政策。这种情况将有利于目前掌权的独裁者。”
Gabriel Nyangwile, Democratic Republic of Congo
加布里埃尔·恩扬维尔(Gabriel Nyangwile)，刚果民主共和国
Climate Change
气候变化
“Me and my family’s biggest immediate fear is a reversal of the climate-change agreement. That would make it so much easier for other countries around the world to also neglect the treaty. It scares us to think about the consequences for the next generations.”
“我和家人立刻产生的最大担心是气候变化协议的废弃。这将使其他国家更容易也忽视该协议。想到这可能对下一代产生的后果，我们很害怕。”
Dr. Jan-Ulrich Sobisch, Germany
扬-乌尔里希斯·索比希(Jan-Ulrich Sobisch)，德国
Xenophobia and Misogyny
排外和女性歧视
“My son studies in the U.S. If xenophobia and racism become acceptable behavior, life will certainly become unpleasant for him.
“我的儿子在美国读书。如果仇外情绪和种族主义成为可被接受的行为，他的生活肯定不会愉快。
“Economically, a lot of employment is created by the I.T. industry, which relies heavily on the U.S. demand for services. This would be impacted negatively if he clamps down on outsourcing and free trade.”
“经济上，很多工作机会是IT业创造的，它非常依赖美国对服务业的需求。如果他压制外包和自由贸易，就会产生负面影响。”
Bala Sathiapalan, India
巴拉·萨斯亚帕兰(Bala Sathiapalan)，印度
“Being a young ambitious woman in Russia means being routinely subjected to misogynism, harassment and patronizing remarks both at work and in life. I was hoping that by electing the first woman president the United States would show the world and especially the girls who grow up in Russia that a woman should never, ever be simplified to an object of desire or hate, a kitchen gadget who gives birth to children and watches men make decisions for her concerning her health, her future, and her life. Now, with Donald J. Trump, it would be as hard as ever to explain these things to them.”
“在俄罗斯，有抱负的年轻女性在工作和生活中经常遭受性别歧视、骚扰和傲慢言论的伤害。我本希望，通过选出第一位女总统，美国将向全世界证明——尤其是在俄罗斯长大的女孩——女性永远不应该被简化为觊觎或憎恨的对象，或生孩子的厨房器具，任由男人对她的健康、未来和生活做决定。现在，唐纳德·J·特朗普当选，要向她们解释这些事情会非常困难。”
Ann, Russia
安(Ann)，俄罗斯