Mandarin television channels. Congee rice porridges. Smoking rooms.
普通话电视频道。米粥。吸烟房间。
China has become the biggest travel spender in the world, and hotels are taking notice. Across Europe and America, back-office planners and front desk clerks are learning Chinese customs to attract the new travelers and keep them returning.
中国已经成为世界上最大的旅游消费国，各大酒店都留意到了这一点。在欧洲和美国，后台的规划者和前台的接待员都在学习中国的习俗，以便招揽新游客，让他们下次还能再来。
The market is large, and growing. China’s economy included $102 billion spent on travel abroad in 2012, according to the United Nations World Tourism Organization. Rising incomes, combined with a relaxation of foreign travel restrictions and the sheer number of citizens, have fueled the Chinese growth.
市场很大，而且还在日益增长。根据联合国世界旅游组织(United Nations World Tourism Organization)的数据，2012年中国出境旅游消费高达1020亿美元。收入水平的提高，以及出境旅游限制的放松和人口的众多，共同推动了中国出境游市场的增长。
Scott Taber, a vice president at Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, said his company was updating its employee training and guest offerings to meet the 76 percent increase in travelers from mainland China over the previous year. Bellmen, reception clerks and telephone operators are being trained to pronounce Chinese names and offer Chinese newspapers, translated welcome materials and green tea in rooms at hotels in Paris, London, Los Angeles and other cities.
四季酒店(Seasons Hotels and Resorts)的副总裁斯科特·泰伯(Scott Taber)表示，来自中国大陆的顾客去年增加了76%，为了满足这一群体的需求，该公司一直在更新员工培训的内容和客供品的种类。行李员、前台接待员还有电话接线员们正在接受培训，以便掌握中国人名字的发音，并为巴黎、伦敦、洛杉矶等城市的酒店房间提供中文报纸、译成中文的入住欢迎信以及绿茶。
“We operate six hotels in mainland China and have learned cultural expectations and preferences from our experience with guests there,” Mr. Taber said. The Medallia company, which created the customer feedback system for Four Seasons, has translated it into Mandarin so Chinese guests could provide feedback worldwide.
“我们在中国内地运营着六家酒店，通过和那里的客人打交道，了解到了他们的文化要求和偏好，”泰伯说。为四季酒店制作顾客反馈系统的Medallia公司已经把该系统译成了中文，这样一来，中国客人就可以从世界各地提交反馈信息了。
At a minimum, hotels that hope to attract and retain Chinese business teach their front desk staff and reservations agents basic cultural information. Guests from China are not assigned to rooms that include the number four, which is considered unlucky because it sounds like the word for death. Chinese business practices and management hierarchy influence room assignments, so managers need to be assigned to a higher floor than their team, or given a higher room number.
希望招揽和保持中国业务的各家酒店至少会教前台工作人员和预订部职员一些基本的文化信息。不能把房间号带有“4”的客房分配给来自中国的客人，因为“4”和“死”谐音，中国人认为它不吉利。中国的商务习惯和管理等级也会影响房间的分配，与团队成员相比，为经理分配的楼层得更高一些，或者房间号更大一些。
Some hotel chains formalize these amenities and services under names like JW Marriott’s Li Yu, meaning “To Serve with Courtesy.” As part of this program, The JW Marriott London Grosvenor House staffs a Chinese welcome desk for group arrivals, offers Chinese-labeled bathroom products and supplies a Chinese do-not-disturb sign.
一些连锁酒店会设立各种名目，把这些设施和服务正规化，比如JW万豪酒店(JW Marriott)的“礼遇”计划。作为该计划的一部分，伦敦格罗夫纳豪斯JW万豪酒店(JW Marriott London Grosvenor House)配备了一个办理团体入住事宜的中文接待处，还提供带有中文标签的洗浴用品以及中文的请勿打扰标牌。
The Hilton Worldwide website lists hotels where its Huanying or “welcome” program is offered, including 19 in Europe and 29 in America. Guests of Conrad Hotels and Resorts can use the Conrad Concierge mobile app to choose Chinese television channels, mini-bar foods and other amenities, in Mandarin, on their mobile phone before they arrive.
希尔顿酒店集团(Hilton Worldwide)在网上列出了旗下推出“欢迎”计划的酒店名单，包括欧洲的19家，以及美国的29家。港丽酒店及度假村(Conrad Hotels & Resorts)的客人入住前，可以使用“港丽礼宾”(Conrad Concierge)移动应用,用普通话选择中文电视频道、迷你酒吧食物以及其他设施。
Sales and reservation departments are also adapting. At the Waldorf-Astoria New York, Robert Armstrong, the sales manager, quotes all-inclusive pricing, with taxes and breakfast, to Chinese guests who ask about reservations, because they are accustomed to that type of pricing in China. He also asks which guests need to stay on a smoking floor. Chinese business groups often travel together, so the staff greets them at the entrance when they arrive.
销售和预订部门也在与时俱进。纽约华道夫-阿斯多里亚酒店(Waldorf-Astoria New York)的销售经理罗伯特·阿姆斯特朗(Robert Armstrong)，会为进行预订咨询的中国客人报上包含税金和早餐费用的全套价格，因为他们在中国已经习惯了这种报价方式。他还会询问哪些客人需要住在能吸烟的楼层。中国的商务团体通常会结伴旅行，因此，当他们到达时，酒店工作人员会去入口处迎接。
The Preferred Hotel Group, which oversees 650 luxury hotels, says the number of Chinese guests and their average room rates has increased. “Chinese travelers have also started coming without tour groups, and so we are seeing a shift from traditional wholesale rates,” said Casey Ueberroth, senior vice president for marketing.
管理着650家豪华酒店的首选酒店集团(Preferred Hotel Group)称，中国客人的人数以及他们的平均房价都有所增加。“一些中国游客也开始单独入住，不跟团了，所以我们看到传统的团体价正在改变，”负责营销的高级副总裁凯西·尤伯罗思(Casey Ueberroth)说。
To market to these individual travelers, the company is starting a program called “China Ready” next month. Participating hotels will meet more than 25 criteria and become part of the company’s global marketing campaign to attract Chinese travelers via websites and online advertising in China.
为了针对这些个人游客进行市场推广，该公司将于下个月启动一项名为“China Ready”（意为“做好迎接中国的准备”。——译注）的计划。参与这项计划的酒店要达到至少25条标准，会成为该公司全球营销活动的成员，通过网站和在线广告招揽中国游客。
“We thought just hotels in the bigger cities would sign up, but we have places like the Broadmoor in Colorado Springs joining because they see the importance to their client base, " Mr. Ueberroth said.
“我们原本以为只有大城市的酒店会报名，但科罗拉多斯普林斯市的布罗德莫尔(Broadmoor)这样的酒店也参与了我们的计划，因为他们看到这对吸引他们的客户群体非常重要，”尤伯罗思说。
Many hotels in the United States and Europe have not adapted. According to a survey by Hotels.com, three-fourths of Chinese travelers say hoteliers need to improve their offering of translated items, like welcome literature, websites, television programs and newspapers, while 42 percent say that they would like to see more Mandarin-speaking staff.
美国和欧洲的许多酒店对新形势还不太适应。Hotels.com网站的一项调查显示，四分之三的中国游客称，酒店经营者需要更好地提供翻译内容，比如入住欢迎信、网站、电视节目以及报纸。42%的受访者则表示，他们希望看到更多说普通话的酒店工作人员。
Ray Zhang has made about 10 business trips to the United States from China since 2006, staying at some of the largest hotel chains in the largest cities. “They expect you to know English,” he said. More than half of the hotels polled by Hotels.com said they had spent less than $10,000 in the last 12 months on programs or products for Chinese travelers.
自2006年至今，张雷（音译）从中国去美国出差已经有十次左右，落脚点均为大城市的大型连锁酒店。“他们希望你懂英语，”他说。Hotels.com网站调查过的大半酒店都表示，过去12个月里，他们用于专为中国游客定制的计划或者产品的开支还不到1万美元。
Hotels can go beyond Asian menu items and translation services to cater to Chinese clients with entertainment, among other items. Richard Sprague, co-founder of a Beijing-based health devices company, travels in the United States regularly with Chinese business colleagues, and says he is often asked to find local karaoke rooms (or “KTV”, as the Chinese refer to them), which can sometimes be found in Chinese hotels.
除了亚洲菜式和翻译服务，各家酒店还可以通过提供娱乐项目以及其他服务迎合中国客人。北京一家医疗设备公司的联合创始人理查德·斯普雷格(Richard Sprague)会和中国的商业伙伴定期赴美旅行，他说，同行者常常让他在当地找卡拉OK室（中国人称之为KTV），这样的场所有时在中国的酒店里就能找到。
Si Jingnan, an engineer from Beijing, said he traveled to the United States once or twice a year and brought a shopping list from relatives or friends. “This list not only contains L.V. or Gucci,” Mr. Si said, referring to Louis Vuitton, but it also has new brands he has never heard of in China. A shopping guide or helper from the hotel, even with an extra fee, he said, would be most appreciated.
来自北京的工程师司京南（音译）说，他每年都要到美国旅游一两次，身上还会揣着亲朋好友列出的购物清单。司京南说，“清单上不只是LV或者古琦(Gucci)”，他说的LV是指路易威登(Louis Vuitton)，还有一些他在中国从来没听说过的新牌子。他表示，如果酒店里有导购员或者购物助手，即便需要额外付费，他也会感激不尽。