MEXICO CITY — Just before 7 a.m. on Saturday, dozens of soldiers and police officers descended on a condominium tower in Mazatlán, Mexico, a beach resort known as much as a hangout for drug traffickers as for its seafood and surf.
墨西哥城——周六早上快要到七点的时候，数十名士兵和警察出现在了墨西哥马萨特兰的一座公寓大楼里。马萨特兰是一处海滨度假地，这里不仅以海鲜和冲浪闻名，还是著名的毒贩聚集地。
The forces were following yet another tip about the whereabouts of one of the world’s most wanted drug kingpins, Joaquín Guzmán Loera — known as El Chapo, which means “Shorty” — who had eluded such raids for 13 years since escaping from prison, by many accounts in a laundry cart. With an army of guards and lethally enforced loyalty, he reigned over a worldwide, multibillion-dollar drug empire that supplied much of the cocaine and marijuana to the United States despite a widespread, yearslong manhunt by American and Mexican forces.
这些武装和警力之所以出现在这里，是因为一条关于大毒枭乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)藏身之处的线报。古兹曼绰号“矮子”(El Chapo)，是全世界警方最严密追缉的毒贩之一。自从13年前越狱之后，古兹曼已经多次逃脱了这样的突袭，许多说法称，他是坐着洗衣房的手推车越狱的。凭借着一支保镖队伍和靠死亡威胁维系的忠诚，他统治着一个势力遍及全世界、规模达数十亿美元的毒品帝国。尽管多年以来，美国和墨西哥的警力对古兹曼开展了广泛的追捕行动，但是进入美国的大量可卡因和大麻仍然来自古兹曼的毒品帝国。
This time, however, Mr. Guzmán, believed to be in his mid-50s, did not slip out a door, disappear into the famed mountains around his northwest Mexico home, or prove to be absent, as he had in so many previous attempts to apprehend him. He apparently had no time to reach for the arsenal of guns and grenades he had amassed or dash into a storm drain or tunnel, as authorities said he recently did minutes ahead of pursuers.
然而这次，据信55岁左右的古兹曼并没有夺门溜走，随后便隐没于他家周围、墨西哥西北部著名的山峦之间，也没有像之前很多次的抓捕行动一样，最后发现他根本就不在那里。他似乎没时间拿到自己收集的大量枪支和手榴弹，也没时间冲进雨水管或隧道里——当局说不久前，他就曾在追捕人员到来的几分钟之前这么做过。
Mexican marines and the police, aided by information from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, immigration and customs officials and the United States Marshals Service, took him into custody without firing a shot, according to Mexican officials.
墨西哥的官员说，墨西哥海军和警方得到了来自美国禁毒署(Drug Enforcement Administration)、移民局和海关官员，以及美国法警局(United States Marshals Service)的情报，不费一枪一弹就抓获了古兹曼。
Mexico’s attorney general, Jesús Murillo Karam, said a later forensic exam made it “100 percent” certain the man was Mr. Guzmán; the tests were done to avoid the kind of embarrassment Mexican officials faced in June 2012 when they announced the arrest of Mr. Guzmán’s son, only to later discover it was not him.
墨西哥总检察长赫苏斯·穆里略·卡拉姆(Jesús Murillo Karam)说，随后的一个法医鉴定“百分之百证实”，此人就是古兹曼；之所以做这些测试，是为了避免墨西哥官员2012年6月遇到的尴尬处境，那时他们声称逮捕了古兹曼的儿子，结果后来才发现根本不是同一个人。
Mr. Guzmán faces a slew of drug trafficking and organized crime charges in the United States, which had offered $5 million for information leading to his arrest in the hopes of dealing a crippling blow to an organization that is the country’s top provider of illicit drugs.
古兹曼在美国面临着许多项贩毒和有组织犯罪指控，美国官方为了寻找捉拿古兹曼的线索，悬赏500万美元，希望对这个在美国供应了最多非法毒品的组织给予致命的一击。
Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa Cartel is considered the largest and most powerful trafficking organization in the world, with a reach as far as Europe and Asia, and has been a main combatant in a spasm of violence that has left tens of thousands dead in Mexico.
古兹曼的锡那罗亚贩毒集团(Sinaloa Cartel)被认为是世界上规模最大、势力最强的贩毒组织，其影响力能触及欧亚，是导致墨西哥数万人死亡的一系列暴力活动的主要参与者。
“Big strike,” said a Twitter posting by former President Felipe Calderón, who had made cracking down on drug gangs a hallmark of his tenure.
墨西哥前总统费利佩·卡尔德龙(Felipe Calderón)在Twitter上说，“沉重一击”。他在任时曾投入大量精力打击贩毒团伙。
But it was the forces under the control of President Enrique Peña Nieto, whose resolve to fight drug traffickers was questioned, that produced the biggest arrest in a generation. While Mr. Peña Nieto has not allowed American law enforcement officials the kind of broad access in Mexico that Mr. Calderón had permitted, the two countries have continued to work together on big cases.
然而，实施了这次二三十年来规模最大的抓捕行动的，是现任总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)手下的队伍，涅托打击毒贩的决心曾经受到过质疑。尽管涅托没有像卡尔德龙那样，允许美国执法部门在墨西哥广泛插手，但两国在重大案件上仍然保持着合作。
Eduardo Medina Mora, the Mexican ambassador to the United States, said that the two governments had been working together on the case for months. But whether Mr. Guzmán would be extradited to the United States has not been worked out.
墨西哥驻美国大使爱德华多·梅迪纳·莫拉(Eduardo Medina Mora)说，几个月以来，两国政府一直在这个案子上合作。但古兹曼是否会被引渡到美国还有待商讨。
“I think it’s important that first he faces the charges against him in Mexico,” the ambassador said.
莫拉说，“我认为重要的是，他应该首先在墨西哥面对指控。”
It remains to be seen if the arrest will interrupt Mexico’s thriving drug trade. The capture or killing of a drug lord sometimes unleashes more violence as internal feuds break out and rivals attack. And given the efficiency of the Sinaloa Cartel, it is possible the group will manage a smooth transition to a new leader and continue with business as usual.
这次逮捕行动是否会影响到墨西哥繁荣的毒品贸易还有待观察。一个大毒枭被捕或死亡有时会引发更多暴力活动，比如内部的争斗和对手之间的火并。此外，考虑到锡那罗亚贩毒集团的高效运作，该组织或许能顺利实现过渡，在新领袖领导下照旧经营。
“The takedown of Chapo Guzmán is a thorn in the side of the Sinaloa Cartel, but not a dagger in its heart,” said George Grayson, a professor at the College of William and Mary who studies the drug war.
威廉玛丽学院(College of William and Mary)研究缉毒行动的教授乔治·格雷森(George Grayson)说，“对于锡那罗亚贩毒集团来说，‘矮子’古兹曼落网所带来的烦恼不过是肉里的一根刺，而不是心上的一把刀。”
Over time, as he eluded capture, his legend and the mystery of his whereabouts grew. He had been rumored to be in Guatemala, Argentina, Bolivia, and even, as Mr. Calderón once speculated, in the United States, where his wife had given birth to twins.
长久以来，由于逃脱了追缉，古兹曼的传奇色彩，以及他的难觅踪迹所带来神秘感与日俱增。曾有传闻说他在危地马拉、阿根廷、玻利维亚，甚至美国。卡尔德龙就曾经猜测他在美国。古兹曼的妻子曾在美国生下了一对双胞胎。
But in the end, he was captured not long after doing what so many cartel bosses do: having a party in Mazatlán.
但最后，他被捕了。在被捕之前不久，他只不过在做一件许多大佬都会做的事：在马萨特兰开派对。
Few details were available on Saturday, but a picture of Mr. Guzmán, who appeared kneeling and handcuffed with a few cuts on his face and shoulders, circulated among law enforcement officials.
目前几乎无法得到周六抓捕活动的任何细节，但执法官员相互传阅的一张古兹曼的照片显示，古兹曼跪倒在地，戴着手铐，脸上和肩上有几处伤口。
In the afternoon, he was paraded before the media at a news conference at Mexico City’s international airport, in dark jeans, a dress shirt and noticeably blacker hair than in previous photographs. Masked Mexican marines gripped him as he was walked to a helicopter that would take him to prison.
下午，在墨西哥城国际机场举行的新闻发布会上，古兹曼被带到了媒体面前，他穿着深色牛仔裤、白衬衫，头发明显比之前的一些照片显示的要黑。带着面具的墨西哥海军押着他登上了一架前往监狱的直升机。
Without specifying their location, Mr. Murillo Karam said Mr. Guzmán had seven houses, with reinforced steel doors and connected by tunnels that allowed him time to escape just ahead of the police.
穆里略·卡拉姆说，古兹曼有七套房屋，这些房子拥有经过加固的钢化门，都与隧道相连，以便他在警方到来之前有时间逃脱。但他没有说明这些房屋的具体位置。
In the years since he escaped prison, Mr. Guzmán took on near-mythic status. He landed on the Forbes list of the world’s richest people. He picked up the tab for entire restaurants, or so the stories go, to ensure diners would remain silent about his outings. According to a leaked diplomatic cable, he surrounded himself with an entourage of 300 armed men for protection. And narcocorridos, folk ballads in tribute to drug lords, were sung in his honor.
在他越狱后的几年里，古兹曼几乎成了一个神话般的人物。他登上了《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志的富豪排行榜。为了让用餐者对他的出现保持沉默，他会为餐厅里所有的顾客买单，但或许这只是传闻。根据一份泄密的外交电文，他安排了300名武装人员在身边保护自己，甚至有人唱着讲述贩毒故事的歌谣来赞颂他。
Some Mexicans greeted the news of his capture with a shrug as drug violence continues. There is also uncertainty over what to believe about Mr. Guzmán. “He was somebody who existed,” said Gustavo Colin in Mexico City, “and didn’t exist.”
由于毒品买卖引发的暴力活动仍在继续，一些墨西哥人对古兹曼被捕的消息态度漠然。涉及古兹曼的故事中，还不确定有哪些是真的。墨西哥城的古斯塔沃·柯林(Gustavo Colin)说，“这个人存在过，但也从未存在过。”