The world is growing older and China is among the countries aging the fastest. The demographic profile of its 1.35 billion people has been reshaped by decades of strict population controls that limited many families to one or two children. That, combined with greater longevity, has increased the proportion of seniors in the general population.
世界正在变老，而中国是老龄化速度最快的国家之一。几十年来严格的人口控制，导致很多家庭只有一两个孩子，令其13.5亿人口的结构遭到重塑。再加上人口寿命延长，老年人在中国总人口中的比例持续上升。
In fact, older Chinese are among the fastest-growing population segments in the world. Official figures show that at the end of 2011, there were 185 million Chinese aged 60 or older. Just three years later, by the end of 2014, that number had grown to 212 million, or nearly 16 percent of the population, according to People’s Daily.
事实上，中国老年人口是世界上增长最快的人口类别。官方数据显示，截至2011年底，中国60岁以上人口共有1.85亿。《人民日报》的文章显示，仅仅三年后，在2014年底，这一数字已增长到2.12亿，占总人口的近16%。
By 2050, as many as one-third of China’s projected population of about 1.5 billion may be 60 or older, a situation so far found only in Japan, a “hyper-aged” nation where 33 percent of people fall into that category. So how are older Chinese doing compared with their counterparts in other countries? “Moderately,” according to the 2015 Global AgeWatch Index, a survey released on Wednesday by HelpAge International, a nongovernmental organization. The country “faces significant challenges,” but has “made progress on age-friendly policies,” the group said in a statement.
到2050年，中国预计约有15亿人超过60岁，可能占人口总数的三分之一。这种情况至今为止只出现在了日本。日本是一个“超老龄化”国家，那里有33%的人逾60岁。那么，中国的老年人口与其他国家相比情况如何呢？根据本周三公布的2015年“全球老龄生活指数”(Global AgeWatch Index)，这个问题的答案是“中等”。开展该调查的非政府组织国际助老会(HelpAge International)在声明中表示，中国“面临相当大的挑战”，但“在制定对老年人友好的政策方面有所进步”。
Here are two examples from Beijing, the capital, drawn from reports in the Chinese news media:
以下是中国首都北京的两个例子，均来自中国媒体的报道：
In August, officials announced an ambitious plan to build a large elderly care facility totaling 300,000 square meters, or 3.2-million square feet, in the suburb of Gaobeidian. Also, they said they would privatize most of the city’s 215 state-managed facilities, for which waiting lists are long, in the hopes that these can offer better care in the future.
今年8月，官方宣布了一项雄心勃勃的计划，要在郊区高碑店建立一个大型老年护理机构，共计30万平方米。此外他们还表示，对于该市215个公办养老机构，他们准备将其中多大数转为民营，因为等候入住的老年人名单太长。他们希望此举可以在将来更好的照料老年人。
“China, with almost a quarter of the world’s older people, is rapidly adapting to be an aging society,” HelpAge International said in the statement.
“世界上近四分之一的老年人来自中国，该国正在迅速适应社会的老龄化，”国际助老会在声明中说。
In releasing the survey results, Eduardo Klien, the organization’s regional director for East Asia and the Pacific, said that older people need to be valued more, everywhere.
在发布调查结果时，该组织东亚和太平洋地区的负责人爱德华多·克里恩(Eduardo Klien)表示，各地的老年人都应获得更多重视。
“We need a paradigm shift, from seeing older people solely as vulnerable to seeing this segment of the population as a resource, with skills, capacities, willingness and legitimacy to actively perform in their economies and societies,” Mr. Klien said in a statement.The index used 13 indicators to assess the quality of life in four areas: income security, health, personal capability and enabling environment. HelpAge said its survey looked at the situation of 91 percent of people aged 60 and older around the world — about 901 million people in all.
“我们需要转变范式，从仅仅把老年人视为脆弱人群，转而把他们看作是一种资源，具有积极参与经济和社会生活的技术、能力、意愿与正当性，”克莱恩在声明中说。该指数使用13项指标来评估四个方面的生活质量：收入保障、健康、个人能力和有利的环境。国际助老会表示，世界各地60岁以上的老年人总共大约有9.01亿，而此次调查覆盖了其中的91%。
On the plus side in China, most older people have a sense of personal safety and freedom and are satisfied with public transport, scoring above average for the Asia-Pacific region on all counts, the survey found.
调查发现，从好的一面来看，在中国，大多数老年人拥有安全感和自由感，对公共交通感到满意，得分高于亚太地区的平均水平。
On the minus side, China’s elderly are poorer than many of their counterparts in the region, with nearly one in four — twice the regional average — living at the poverty level, according to the survey.
调查也发现，中国的不足之处在于，老年人的经济状况比该地区的很多地方糟糕：该国有近四分之一的老年人生活处于贫困状态，是地区平均水平的两倍。
Other findings:•China ranks “moderately” in health, near the regional average for life expectancy (a 60-year-old Chinese can expect to live 19 more years) and above the regional average for “healthy life expectancy” (60 plus 16.8 years, or nearly 77 years of good health).•Its “enabling environment is good,” with lots of places where older adults can get out and socialize, including more than 700,000 cultural centers. In most urban areas in China, older people have free access to public transport, parks and other sites.
其他调查结果包括：在健康方面，中国的评级是“中等”，人口预期寿命接近区域平均水平（60岁的中国人预期还有19年的寿命），“健康预期寿命”指标超过了地区平均水平（60岁的中国人预期可以再健康生活16.8年，到接近77岁）。中国“有利于老年人的良好环境”。老年人可以出门参加社交活动的去处很多，包括逾70万个文化中心。在大部分城市地区，中国老年人可以免费使用公共交通、公园等场所。
Globally, China ranked 52 out of 96 countries, with Switzerland ranking first and Japan, which leads the Asia-Pacific region, eighth. The United States was ninth.
从全球来看，中国排在96个国家中的第52位。瑞士排名第一，日本排在第八，领跑亚太地区。美国居第九位。