Ta-Nehisi Coates, already a National Book Award winner for “Between the World and Me,” now has a chance to add a National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism to his mantel. Mr. Coates’s book, a meditation on racism in America written in the form of a letter to his son, joins works by the novelist Lauren Groff, the memoirist and critic Vivian Gornick and the poet Ada Limón among those nominated for the awards.
已凭借《在我和世界之间》(Between the World and Me)获得国家图书奖(National Book Award)的塔-奈希西·科茨(Ta-Nehisi Coates)，现在有可能把全美书评人协会奖(National Book Critics Circle Award)的最佳评论书籍奖也收入囊中。科茨的书是以给儿子写信的方式表达对美国种族主义的思考。同时获得提名的有小说家劳伦·格罗夫(Lauren Groff)、传记作家兼评论家薇薇安·戈尼克(Vivian Gornick)和诗人阿达·利蒙(Ada Limón)等。
The awards, determined by a jury of critics and book review editors, honor excellence in six categories – autobiography, biography, criticism, fiction, nonfiction and poetry. The winners will be named on March 17. On Monday, however, the group announced the recipients of its two annual citations: Wendell Berry, an environmentalist, farmer and novelist, won the Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement Award, while Carlos Lozada, the nonfiction critic for The Washington Post, captured the Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing.
全美书评人协会奖的评审团由评论家和书评编辑组成，奖励六个门类的优秀作品——自传、传记、评论、虚构类作品、非虚构类作品和诗歌。评选结果将于3月17日公布。不过，周一（1月18日），该组织公布了两个年度奖项的获得者：环保人士、农夫兼小说家温德尔·贝里(Wendell Berry)获得伊万·桑德罗夫终身成就奖(Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement Award)；《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的非虚构类评论家卡洛斯·洛萨达(Carlos Lozada)获得诺娜·巴拉基安优秀评论奖(Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing)。
Besides Ms. Groff’s nomination for “Fates and Furies,” the fiction finalists include: Paul Beatty’s “The Sellout,” Valeria Luiselli’s “The Story of My Teeth,” Anthony Marra’s “The Tsar of Love and Techno” and Ottessa Moshfegh’s “Eileen.”
除了格罗夫的《命运与愤怒》(Fates and Furies)，获得提名的虚构类作品有：保罗·贝蒂(Paul Beatty)的《背叛》(The Sellout)；瓦莱里娅·路易塞利(Valeria Luiselli)的《我的牙的故事》(The Story of My Teeth)；安东尼·马拉(Anthony Marra)的《爱与泰克诺音乐的沙皇》(The Tsar of Love and Techno)；以及奥特萨·莫什费格(Ottessa Moshfegh)的《艾琳》(Eileen)。
The full list of other nominees in some other categories follows:
以下是其他一些门类的完整提名名单：
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
自传
Elizabeth Alexander, “The Light of the World” (Grand Central Publishing)
伊丽莎白·亚历山大(Elizabeth Alexander)，《世界之光》（The Light of the World，中央车站出版社[Grand Central Publishing]）
Vivian Gornick, “The Odd Woman and the City” (Farrar, Straus and Giroux)
薇薇安·戈尼克，《都市怪女》（The Odd Woman and the City，Farrar, Straus and Giroux出版社）
George Hodgman, “Bettyville” (Viking)
乔治·霍奇曼(George Hodgman)，《Bettyville》（维京出版社[Viking]）
Margo Jefferson, “Negroland” (Pantheon)
玛尔戈·杰斐逊(Margo Jefferson)，《黑人家园》（Negroland，万神殿出版社[Pantheon]）
Helen Macdonald, “H Is for Hawk” (Grove Press)
海伦·麦克唐纳(Helen Macdonald)，《H代表鹰》（H Is for Hawk，格罗夫出版社[Grove Press]）
BIOGRAPHY
传记
Terry Alford, “Fortune’s Fool: The Life of John Wilkes Booth” (Oxford University Press)
特里·奥尔福德(Terry Alford)，《幸运的傻瓜：约翰·威尔克斯·布思的一生》（Fortune’s Fool: The Life of John Wilkes Booth，牛津大学出版社[Oxford University Press]）
Charlotte Gordon, “Romantic Outlaws: The Extraordinary Lives of Mary Wollstonecraft and Her Daughter Mary Shelley” (Random House)
夏洛特·戈登(Charlotte Gordon)，《浪漫的叛逆者：玛丽·沃斯通克拉夫特和女儿玛丽·谢利的非凡人生》（Romantic Outlaws: The Extraordinary Lives of Mary Wollstonecraft and Her Daughter Mary Shelley，兰登书屋[Random House]）
T.J. Stiles, “Custer’s Trials: A Life on the Frontier of a New America” (Alfred A. Knopf)
T·J·斯泰尔斯(T.J. Stiles)，《卡斯特的审判：新美洲先驱的人生》（Custer’s Trials: A Life on the Frontier of a New America，克诺夫出版社[Alfred A. Knopf]）
Rosemary Sullivan, “Stalin’s Daughter: The Extraordinary and Tumultuous Life of Svetlana Alliluyeva” (Harper)
罗斯玛丽·沙利文(Rosemary Sullivan)，《斯大林的女儿：斯韦特兰娜·阿利卢耶娃非凡而动荡的一生》（Stalin’s Daughter: The Extraordinary and Tumultuous Life of Svetlana Alliluyeva，哈珀出版社[Harper]）
Karin Wieland and Shelly Frisch, “Dietrich and Riefenstahl: Hollywood, Berlin, and a Century in Two Lives” (Liveright)
卡琳·威兰(Karin Wieland)和谢莉·弗里施(Shelly Frisch)，《迪特里希和里芬施塔尔：好莱坞、柏林和两种生活的一个世纪》（Dietrich and Riefenstahl: Hollywood, Berlin, and a Century in Two Lives，Liveright出版社）
CRITICISM
评论书籍
Ta-Nehisi Coates, “Between the World and Me” (Spiegel & Grau)
塔-奈希西·科茨，《在我和世界之间》（Spiegel & Grau出版社）
Leo Damrosch, “Eternity’s Sunrise: The Imaginative World of William Blake” (Yale University Press)
利奥·达姆罗施(Leo Damrosch)，《不朽的日出：威廉·布莱克的虚构世界》（Eternity’s Sunrise: The Imaginative World of William Blake，耶鲁大学出版社[Yale University Press]）
Maggie Nelson, “The Argonauts” (Graywolf)
玛吉·内尔森(Maggie Nelson)，《淘金者》（The Argonauts，灰狼出版社[Graywolf]）
Colm Tóibín, “On Elizabeth Bishop” (Princeton University Press)
科尔姆·托伊宾(Colm Tóibín)，《论伊丽莎白·毕晓普》（On Elizabeth Bishop，普林斯顿大学出版社[Princeton University Press]）
James Wood, “The Nearest Thing to Life” (Brandeis University Press)
詹姆斯·伍德(James Wood)，《离生活最近的东西》（The Nearest Thing to Life，布兰迪斯大学出版社[Brandeis University Press]）