As foreign fighters pour into Syria at an increasing clip, extremist groups are carving out pockets of territory that are becoming havens for Islamist militants, posing what United States and Western intelligence officials say may be developing into one of the biggest terrorist threats in the world today.
随着外国武装分子越来越快地涌入叙利亚，极端组织正在攻占多片小块领土，使其成为伊斯兰激进分子的庇护所。美国和西方国家情报官员称，对当今世界来说，这可能会演变为最大的恐怖主义威胁之一。
Known as fierce fighters willing to employ suicide car bombs, the jihadist groups now include more than 6,000 foreigners, counterterrorism officials say, adding that such fighters are streaming into Syria in greater numbers than went into Iraq at the height of the insurgency there against the American occupation.
圣战分子素以凶狠著称，他们不惜采用自杀式汽车炸弹。反恐官员表示，圣战组织中如今有超过6000名外国武装分子加入，这些人正在大量涌入叙利亚，其人数甚至超过了武装反抗美军占领伊拉克的高峰期涌入该国的外国武装分子人数。
Many of the militants are part of the Nusra Front, an extremist group whose fighters have gained a reputation over the past several months as some of the most effective in the opposition. But others are assembling under a new, even more extreme umbrella group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, that is merging some Syrians with fighters from around the world — Chechnya, Pakistan, Egypt and the West, as well as Al Qaeda in Iraq, the Sunni insurgent group that rose to prominence in the fight against the American occupation in the years after the 2003 invasion. The concern is that a new affiliate of Al Qaeda could be emerging from those groups.
许多激进分子属于努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的成员，这一极端组织过去几个月在反对派武装中赢得了善战的名声。但其他人正集合在一个新的、更为极端的松散联盟之下——伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)。该组织正把一些叙利亚人与来自世界各地的武装分子整合到一起，包括车臣、巴基斯坦、埃及和西方国家，以及伊拉克的基地组织(Al Qaeda in Iraq)。在2003年美国出兵伊拉克之后，这一逊尼派反抗组织在多年对抗美国占领的战斗中崛起。令人担忧的是，一个新的基地组织附属机构可能会从这些团体中诞生。
Indeed, American intelligence officials said this week that Ayman al-Zawahri, the overall leader of Al Qaeda in Pakistan, has had regular communications with the Nusra Front in Syria, reflecting how favorably the Qaeda leadership views the long-term potential for Syria as a safe haven. Juan Zarate, a former senior counterterrorism official in the George W. Bush administration, said that Syria lay in the center of an arc of instability, stretching from Iran through North Africa, and “in that zone, you may have the regeneration and resurrection of a new brand of Al Qaeda.”
美国情报官员本周表示，实际上，巴基斯坦基地组织的总头目艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)已经在与叙利亚的努斯拉阵线进行定期交流，这反映出，基地组织领导层相当肯定，从长期来说，叙利亚具备成为安全庇护所的有利条件。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府时期的高级反恐官员胡安·萨拉特(Juan Zarate)称，叙利亚位于一片动荡的弧形地带的中心，从伊朗一直延伸到北非，“在这一地区，你可能会看到一个新型基地组织的重生和复活。”
It was the fear of militants coming to dominate the opposition that caused the United States and its Western allies to hold off providing lethal aid to the Syrian opposition, at least until now. But as a result, counterterrorism analysts say, they lost a chance to influence the battle in Syria. Even Congressional supporters of the C.I.A.’s covert program to arm moderate elements of the Syrian opposition fear the delivery of weapons, set to begin this month, will be too little, too late.
正是由于担心激进分子会主导叙利亚反对派，美国及其西方盟友才迟迟未向其提供杀伤性武器援助，至少迄今为止都是如此。然而反恐分析师称，其结果是，他们失去了影响叙利亚战争的机会。美国中情局(CIA)有向叙利亚反政府武装中的温和派提供武器的秘密计划，定于本月启动武器供应，然而，就连国会中支持这一计划的人都担心，这起不到多大作用，也为时太晚。
In recent months, the battle lines have hardened. The Syrian government, backed by Iran and Hezbollah, has seized new momentum and retaken territory in the south and east from the rebels. At the same time, power within the badly fractured opposition, numbering about 1,200 groups, has steadily slipped into the hands of the jihadists based in the northeast, where this week they seized a strategic airport in the area. They also hold sway in the provincial capital of Raqqa.
最近几个月，冲突已进一步恶化。伊朗和真主党(Hezbollah)支持的叙利亚政府已经获得了新的动力，并从反对派武装手中夺回了南部和东部的领土。同时，共有约1200个不同组织的反对派四分五裂，其控制权已慢慢地落入叙利亚东北部圣战分子的手中。本周，这些人在当地夺取了一个具有战略重要性的机场。他们在省会拉卡也颇有影响力。
The idea that Syria could supplant Pakistan as the primary haven for Al Qaeda someday, should the government fall, is a heavy blow to the Western-backed Syrian opposition and its military arm, the Free Syrian Army. It plays directly into the hands of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, whose government has sought to portray itself as the only alternative to Islamic extremism and chaos and has made the prospect of full-on American support even more remote than it already was.
有一种观点是，如果叙利亚政府垮台，叙利亚就可能在某一天取代巴基斯坦成为基地组织的首要庇护所。这对于西方支持的叙利亚反对派及其军事分支叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)来说，是一个沉重的打击。这个观点正中叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al- Assad)的下怀，他的政府一直努力把自己描绘为避免伊斯兰极端主义和混乱局面的不二选择，这一观点也让反对派获得美国的全面支持更加遥不可及。
Mr. Assad’s argument “began as a fiction during the period of peaceful, unarmed protests but is now a reality” because of Mr. Assad’s own efforts to divide the country as well as the success of the extremists, Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task Force on Palestine, wrote in a recent essay for the Web site Now Lebanon.
不久前，“美国巴勒斯坦问题工作组”(American Task Force on Palestine)高级研究员侯赛因·伊比什(Hussein Ibish)在“现在的黎巴嫩”(Now Lebanon)网站上发表了一篇文章，其中写道，阿萨德的说法“起初在和平的非武装抗议时期出现时，似乎只是天方夜谭，但现在却成为了现实”，这要归咎于阿萨德分裂国家的努力和极端分子的成功。
In Raqqa recently, a commander of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria sipped coffee after breaking the Ramadan fast, wearing a Pakistani-style outfit. The commander, Abu Omar, was Syrian, a member of a tribe in the area, but he described his movement’s goals as reaching far beyond the country’s borders.
最近在拉卡，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度的一名指挥官在斋月的全天禁食结束后小口喝着咖啡。这名身穿一件巴基斯坦式样外衣的指挥官名为阿布·奥马尔(Abu Omar)，是叙利亚人，来自当地部族，但他将自己所在组织的目标形容为远远超越了国界。
He did not speak of attacking the United States. But he threatened Russia, and he spoke of a broad-based battle against Shiite-led Iran and its quest to dominate the region, and said Sunnis from across the world were justified in flocking to Syria to fight because of the government’s reliance on Shiite fighters from Lebanon and Iraq.
他并没有谈及攻击美国。但他向俄罗斯发出了威胁，说到了一场各方参与的战斗，来反抗什叶派领导的伊朗及其统治该地区的野心，他表示，世界各地的逊尼派都有正当理由赶至叙利亚参战，因为叙利亚政府倚仗黎巴嫩和伊拉克的什叶派武装分子的支持。
Free Syrian Army fighters have clashed with jihadist groups in recent weeks over weapons and supplies, and civilian anti-Assad activists have struggled with them over their efforts to impose religious rules on society. The groups have kidnapped and imprisoned dozens of activists.
叙利亚自由军最近几周与圣战组织因武器和供给发生过数次冲突，反对阿萨德的平民活动人士也因他们试图将宗教规则强加于社会而与之产生矛盾。这些组织已经绑架并关押了几十名活动人士。
Yet the lines dividing the Free Syrian Army from jihadi groups are fluid, and the conflicts have not stopped Free Syrian Army leaders from working with their fighters, whose fierceness on the battlefield is undisputed. That has helped create a divergence between statements by exile opposition leaders rejecting extremists and their ideology and actions by ground commanders eager for any help they can get.
然而，区分叙利亚自由军与圣战组织的界限不断游移，这种种冲突也没能让叙利亚自由军的领导人停止与圣战组织武装分子合作，因为他们在战场上的凶猛是无可争辩的。这已经在流亡的反对派领导人和作战的指挥官之间制造了分歧，前者声称他们拒绝极端分子及其意识形态，而后者在行动时则渴望得到任何可能的帮助。
“We are getting big accusations that we are implementing foreign agendas to divide the Syrian rebel groups or we are agents for the Assad regime,” Abu Omar said. “But we are the ones who made the big military operations against the Assad regime. When we fight any military position we get it or die for God’s sake.”
“我们受到强烈的指责，说我们正在实施外国议程，来分裂叙利亚反政府武装，或者说我们是阿萨德政权的代理，”阿布·奥马尔说。“但我们是真正向阿萨德政权发动大型军事行动的力量。当我们为任何一个军事阵地作战的时候，我们要么拿下，要么为了真主而死去。”
This week, the jihadist group Jaish al-Muhajireen wal Ansar, or the Army of Emigrants and Supporters, led by a fighter from the Caucasus known as Abu Omar al-Shesheni — the Chechen — worked with Free Syrian Army battalions to take the Menagh air base in Aleppo Province after 10 months of trying.
本周，圣战组织移民和支持者武装（Jaish al-Muhajireen wal Ansar，即Army of Emigrants and Supporters）在来自车臣的高加索武装分子阿布·奥马尔·车舍尼(Abu Omar al-Shesheni)的领导下，与叙利亚自由军合作，在尝试了10个月以后，最终拿下了阿勒颇省的梅纳戈空军基地。
What appeared to turn the battle around, said Charles Lister, an analyst with IHS Jane’s Terrorism and Insurgency Center, were the relentless suicide vehicle bombings on the walls of the base — five or six times in the past two weeks, he said.
简氏信息集团恐怖主义和叛乱中心(IHS Jane’s Terrorism and Insurgency Center)的分析师查尔斯·利斯特(Charles Lister)认为，扭转战争局势的看来是对军事基地外墙展开的持续自杀式汽车炸弹袭击。他说，过去两周发生了五六起这样的袭击事件。
After the battle, Col. Abdul Jabbar al-Okaidi, the head of the United States-backed opposition’s Aleppo military council, appeared in a video alongside Abu Jandal, a leader of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
战斗过后，由美国支持的反对派武装阿勒颇军事委员会的领导人阿卜杜勒·贾巴尔·欧凯迪上校(Abdul Jabbar al-Okaidi)出现在一则视频中，身边是来自伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度领导层的阿布·詹达勒(Abu Jandal)。
In camouflage, Colonel Okaidi offered thanks to “our brothers al-Muhajireen wal Ansar and others,” adding: “We’re here to kiss every hand pressed on the trigger.” He then ceded the floor to Abu Jandal and a mix of jihadist and Free Syrian Army leaders, who stood together, each praising his men, like members of a victorious basketball team.
欧凯迪身着迷彩服，向“我们来自移民和支持者武装等组织的兄弟”表示感谢，并说：“我们在这里亲吻每一只扣在扳机上的手。”他随后把讲台让给了阿布·詹达勒、其他几名圣战组织，以及叙利亚自由军的领导人。他们站在一起，赞美他手下的士兵们，就像是一队凯旋而归的篮球运动员。
Such cooperation has complicated efforts to isolate the jihadists within the insurgency, where commanders of all political stripes realize they have little choice but to collaborate with any ally available.
对于以孤立反对派武装中圣战分子为目的的种种努力，这样的合作让局势更加复杂，而反对派中各政治派别也意识到，除了与任何可能得到的联盟合作以外，他们没有太多选择。
“There’s an awful lot of pragmatism on the ground,” Mr. Lister said. “There’s a realization that without extensive coordination on the ground this could go on for years and years or the opposition could be defeated, so no matter what the long-term objective, it might be still worth it in the medium term to coordinate across groups.”
“在战场上，有很多很多的实用主义思想，”利斯特表示。“人们意识到，在战场上如果没有广泛的协作，战争会持续很多年，或者反对派武装会被击败。所以不论长期目标是什么，从中期来说，建立跨组织的协作还是值得的。”