HOUSTON — The ailing American coal industry, which has pinned its hopes on exports to counter a declining market at home, is scaling back its ambitions as demand from abroad starts to ebb as well.
休斯顿——美国不景气的煤炭行业曾寄希望于出口，以缓冲国内市场需求的下滑，但随着国外需求开始减少，煤炭行业也在相应缩减。
Just south of here, New Elk Coal terminated its lease late last month at the Port of Corpus Christi, where it had hoped to export coal to Brazil, Europe and Asia. Two days later, when the federal government tried to auction off a two-square-mile tract of land in Wyoming’s Powder River basin, a region once poised to grow with exports to Asia, not a single coal company made a bid.
就在这里以南的地方，新麋鹿煤炭公司(New Elk Coal)在上月底终止了在科珀斯克里斯蒂港口的租约，该公司曾希望能从该港口向巴西、欧洲和亚洲出口煤炭。两天后，联邦政府试图拍卖怀俄明州保德里弗盆地一片占地2平方英里的土地，但却没有一家煤炭公司竞标，该地区曾被认为会随着对亚洲出口的增加而稳步增长。
They were the latest signs that a global coal glut and price slump, along with persistent environmental opposition, are reducing the likelihood that additional exports could shield the industry from slipping domestic demand caused by cheap natural gas and mounting regulations.
这些最新迹象表明，全球煤炭供过于求、价格下跌，以及来自环境保护力量的持续反对，使得靠增加出口来抵挡煤炭工业面临的国内需求下滑的可能性在变小，廉价天然气以及越来越多的管理规定导致了国内煤炭需求的下滑。
European demand is soft, and the economies of the developing world are slowing. But the main reason for the slumping prices is China’s softening demand growth, experts say.
欧洲需求疲软，发展中国家经济正在放缓。但是专家称，导致价格下跌的主要原因是中国的需求增长在减弱。
For most of the last decade, China’s soaring thirst for energy accounted for more than 50 percent of world coal demand, driving up international coal prices and stimulating mining activity across Australia, Indonesia and as far away as Colombia and South Africa. With Australia and Indonesia straining to produce for China, South Korea and Japan increasingly looked to the United States for future supplies, stimulating interest in the building of several export terminals in Oregon and Washington State and on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico.
过去10年中的大部分时间，中国对能源的旺盛需求，占了全球煤炭需求的一半以上，驱动了全球煤炭价格的增长，并刺激了澳大利亚、印度尼西亚，乃至遥远的哥伦比亚和南非的采煤活动。随着澳大利亚和印度尼西亚尽全力为中国生产煤炭，韩国和日本越来越多地向美国寻求未来的煤炭供应，从而激发了在俄勒冈州和华盛顿州以及墨西哥湾海岸建造几座煤炭出口港口的兴趣。
But over the last few months those hopes appear to be receding with a reshaping of global coal markets. After years of mounting imports of coal to fuel its growing economy, China has taken a number of steps to slow those imports. It has modernized domestic mines, made coal-fired electricity plants more efficient and stepped up development of nuclear and renewable power.
然而过去几个月中，这些希望似乎正随着全球煤炭市场的重新调整而逐渐消退。在经过多年靠进口煤炭来满足经济增长需求之后，中国开始采取一系列措施减少这些进口。中国实现了国内煤矿的现代化，提高了煤电厂的效率，并加快了发展核能和可再生能源的步伐。
On Thursday, China announced a ban on construction of new coal-fired plants around Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou to control air pollution. The plan will shift new power plant construction to natural gas, nuclear and solar power. Those initiatives, along with slowing Chinese economic growth, have undercut expectations for rising imports and helped produce an overabundance that has sent world coal prices plummeting by more than 30 percent from last year. In response, international coal companies are scaling back mining and shelving export projects from Australia to the Gulf of Mexico, especially for thermal coal used to produce electricity.
9月12日，中国宣布禁止在北京、上海和广州周边建设新的煤电厂，以控制大气污染。计划中的新建电厂改为使用天然气、核能以及太阳能。这些措施以及中国正在放缓的经济增长速度，削弱了人们对出口增长的期望，导致煤炭产能的过剩，使得全球煤炭价格与去年相比暴跌了30%以上。对此，国际煤炭公司正在缩减采煤规模，搁置了从澳大利亚到墨西哥湾的出口项目，尤其是用于发电的动力煤。
“We’re seeing the beginnings of a big structural shift, particularly in the Chinese energy sector,” said Richard Morse, managing director at SuperCritical Capital, an energy consultancy. “For global markets, this is a significant bearish signal for coal.”
能源咨询机构SuperCritical Capital的执行主任理查德·莫尔斯(Richard Morse)说，“我们看到一次结构性大调整的端倪，尤其是在中国的能源部门。对国际市场来说，这是煤炭行业将出现一个大熊市的信号。”
In the United States, a half-dozen planned export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and in the Gulf of Mexico have already been canceled over the last year because of poor economics and political opposition. Shipping experts said that if weak coal prices endured for a few more years, financing could be jeopardized for a handful of the remaining ones.
在美国，太平洋西北地区和墨西哥湾计划修建的几个出口码头，都因经济不景气和政治上的反对在过去一年中被取消。运输专家说，如果煤炭价格低迷状态再持续几年的话，一些现有的出口码头融资也将面临危险。
United States coal exports this year are expected to decline by roughly 5 percent from last year’s record exports of 125 million tons, and many experts predict the decline will quicken next year.
美国今年的煤炭出口，将会在去年创记录的1.25亿吨的基础上，下降约5%，很多专家预计明年出口降低的速度会加快。
At the beginning of 2012, the coal industry had plans to expand port capacity by an additional 185 million tons. But those hopes have faded this year.
2012年初，煤炭行业曾计划要将码头吞吐量增加1.85亿吨。但这些愿望在今年都成为泡影。
“Global coal prices right now are not supportive of large-scale U.S. coal exports,” said Anthony Yuen, a Citigroup energy analyst.
花旗集团(Citigroup)能源分析师安东尼·袁(Anthony Yuen)说，“当前全球煤炭价格不能维持美国煤炭的大规模出口。”
International coal prices have been slumping for about a year. The Newcastle coal benchmark spot price, which early last year rose to as high as $120 per metric ton, declined through much of 2012 to below $90, and finally fell below $80 this summer.
全球煤炭价格下跌已持续一年左右。纽卡斯尔基准煤炭价格在去年初曾达到每公吨120美元，但在2012年间下降到90美元以下，今年夏天最终跌破80美元。
American coal prices are also down, but they have revived somewhat in recent months along with natural gas prices. Some utilities have switched from gas back to coal. Still, coal now constitutes less than 40 percent of United States electrical generation, down from 50 percent a decade ago, and East Coast producers are struggling.
美国的煤炭价格也在下滑，但最近几个月随着天然气价格的提高而有所回升。一些市政供电已经从用天然气改回到用煤。但是，燃煤发电如今在美国发电中所占的比重仍在40%以下，低于10年前的50%，而且东海岸的煤炭生产厂家依然处境艰难。
United States coal production continued to decline this year as utilities work off inventories. The continued closing of antiquated coal-burning plants as well as impending federal regulations on existing plants could slash domestic demand by half by the end of the decade, according to Rhodium Group, a consultancy. And next week, the Environmental Protection Agency is expected to introduce revised regulations that would make the construction of new plants virtually impossible without advanced and expensive carbon capture and sequestration technologies.
由于市政供电仍有库存可用，美国的煤炭生产今年继续回落。据顾问机构荣鼎咨询(Rhodium Group)估计，继续关停老旧煤电厂，以及即将对现有煤电厂实施的联邦法规，将会在这个十年结束时，使国内需求减少一半。下周，国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)预计会启用修订过的法规，新发电厂如果不装备昂贵的先进碳收集和储存技术，其建设将变得几乎不可能。
Coal company revenue and stock prices have plummeted this year, forcing mining companies to cut operations, especially in Appalachia, where expenses are higher, and to lay off roughly 6 percent of their employees during the first half of the year.
煤炭公司今年的收入和股票价格不断下跌，迫使一些公司缩小运营规模，尤其是在成本较高的阿巴拉契亚山区，并在上半年中裁员6%左右。
Senior coal executives acknowledge that they are going through a rough patch, but they say that coal will recover.
煤炭行业高管承认，他们正在经历一段困难时期，但认为煤炭行业将会复苏。
In an e-mail, Vic Svec, a senior vice president at Peabody Energy, the largest American coal company, wrote, “We continue to believe that West Coast exports represent a good long-term opportunity.”
美国最大的煤炭公司博地能源(Peabody Energy)一名高级副总裁维克·斯韦克(Vic Svec)在电子邮件中写道，“我们仍就认为，西海岸的出口是一个好的长期机会。”
The executives note that the state of the economy has forced many companies to shut operations of higher-cost mines, which will eventually rebalance the market once economic activity revives and drives prices back up.
这些高管认为目前的经济状况已迫使很多公司关停了成本较高的煤矿，一旦经济活动恢复，刺激价格回升，最终将会使市场重新平衡。
“We are in a dip,” said Colin Marshall, chief executive of Cloud Peak Energy, a major United States coal company.
美国一家主要煤炭公司云峰能源(Cloud Peak Energy)执行总裁科林·马歇尔(Colin Marshall)说，“我们现在处在谷底。”
But he added in an interview, “If history means anything, the world in a few years will need more commodities, both metals and energy including coal.”
然而，他在一次采访中补充说，“如果历史对我们来说有任何意义的话，这个世界在几年后将会需要更多大宗商品，既有金属也需要包括煤炭在内的能源。”
It is China, experts say, that most defines coal’s future.
专家说，煤炭的未来大多取决于中国。
Energy experts project that China, with its increasingly restrictive policies, may no longer be a net importer by 2015.
一些能源专家预计，随着越来越严格政策的推出，也许到2015年，中国将不再是一个煤炭净进口国。
This year is a “watershed year for global coal markets,” a Goldman Sachs report said. “The window for thermal coal investment is closing.”
高盛(Goldman Sachs)的一份报告称，今年是“全球煤炭市场的一个分水岭。动力煤投资的窗口正在关闭”。