LE BOURGET, France — Industrial emissions of greenhouse gases rose only slightly in 2014 and appear to be on track to decline in 2015, according to new data that raise the possibility that a period of rapid global emissions growth may be coming to an end.
法国勒布尔热——工业温室气体排放量2014年的增幅很小，新的数据显示2015年有望出现下降，由此看来，全球排放量快速增长阶段有可能会很快结束。
The decline of 0.6 percent projected for this year, should it come to pass, would be highly unusual at a time when the global economy is growing. The projection contrasts sharply with emissions growth that averaged 2.4 percent a year over the last decade, and sometimes topped 3 percent.
今年预计会出现0.6%的降幅，果真如此的话将会极不寻常，因为它是全球经济增长期间出现的下降，与过去10年中排放量平均每年增长2.4%，有时甚至突破3%的状况形成鲜明对比。
The new figures were released at the climate conference here by the Global Carbon Project, a collaboration that studies emissions, and published simultaneously in the journal Nature Climate Change.
研究碳排放的合作组织全球碳计划(Global Carbon Project)在这里举行的气候变化会议上发布了新的数据。这些数据也同时发表在了《自然·气候变化》(Nature Climate Change)杂志上。
Past emissions declines have usually been linked to economic distress, such as the global financial panic of 2009 and the Russian economic meltdown of the late 1990s.
以前出现的排放下降通常与经济危机有关，比如2009年的全球金融恐慌，以及1990年代俄罗斯的经济崩溃。
The new figures suggest that there is a chance that global emissions have already peaked and may be starting a long-term decline, experts said Monday, which would be an important inflection point for the international effort to limit the risks of global warming.
专家本周一表示，新的数据表明，全球排放量有可能已经见顶，开始进入长期下降通道，对于遏制全球变暖的国际行动来说，这有望成为一个重大转折点。
But the experts with the Global Carbon Project said they did not consider that to be likely.
但全球碳计划的专家说，他们认为这不太可能发生。
Instead, emissions growth may resume as the Chinese economy recovers from a period of slow growth and as India pursues a plan to double its burning of coal in power plants, part of a program to bring 300 million poor villagers onto the power grid.
相反，随着中国经济从缓慢的增长中复苏，印度推行一项将电厂燃煤总量翻一番的计划，帮助3亿贫困村民联入电网，排放可能会重新进入增长期。
“Emissions in India are at the same level as China in the 1990s,” said Glen P. Peters, an analyst with a climate center in Oslo who spoke at a news conference here. Dr. Peters added that in coming years, India “could actually dominate the global growth in the way that China has done in the past.”
“目前印度的排放量相当于1990年代中国的水平，”奥斯陆一个气候中心的分析师格伦·P·彼得斯(Glen P. Peters)在这里举行的一场新闻发布会上说。他表示，在未来几年内，印度“可能会像中国之前那样，主导全球经济的增长”。
Still, there is some hope that emissions growth in coming years will be slower than in the last decade, Dr. Peters and other experts said, especially as countries start acting on climate pledges they have made this year.
不过，彼得斯和其他专家说，未来几年内的排放增速有望比过去10年缓慢，尤其是各国开始对今年许下的气候承诺采取行动之后。
Climate negotiators are meeting in a huge conference here in Le Bourget, a Paris suburb, hoping to reach a deal by late in the week that commits virtually every country in the world to taking at least some steps to battle global warming.
气候谈判者正聚集在巴黎郊区勒布尔热的一场大型会议上，希望本周晚些时候可以达成一个协议，让几乎每个国家都作出承诺，至少采取一些行动，来遏制全球变暖的趋势。
The new data show that industrial emissions rose 0.6 percent in 2014. That year was the hottest in recorded history, but it is almost certain to be exceeded by 2015.
新的数据显示，工业排放量在2014年增加了0.6%。那年是有历史记录以来最热的一年，但几乎可以肯定2015年会再次刷新记录。
China accounts for more than a quarter of the world’s industrial emissions of greenhouse gases, and the new figures reflect broad shifts in the Chinese economy that led to lower emissions growth in 2014, as well as a likelihood of declining emissions in 2015.
中国占全球温室气体排放量的四分之一以上，新的数字反映了中国经济的广泛变化，这种变化导致了2014年排放量增幅的缩小，也催生了2015年排放量降低的可能性。
Chinese growth has slowed markedly, the country is transitioning toward a service economy, and it is pushing hard on renewable power as a way to limit greenhouse gases.
中国经济增长已明显放缓，该国不仅在向服务型经济过渡，还在大力推广可再生能源，以限制温室气体的排放。
But China’s consumption of coal grew by almost threefold from 2000 to 2013, and it now consumes about half the coal used worldwide.
但从2000到2013年间，中国的煤炭消耗量增长了近两倍，目前占全球煤炭消耗量的一半左右。
The Chinese government cleared away some doubts about the reliability of its energy data when it recently released sharply revised statistics that showed that coal consumption between 2000 and 2013, measured by energy content, was almost 10 percent higher than previously thought.
中国政府最近发布的经过大幅调整的统计数据显示，根据能含量计算，2000年至2013年的煤炭消耗量比之前的设想多了将近10%，这消除了有关其能源数据真实性的一些疑问。
That upward revision has made the recent slowdown in coal demand appear even starker, and reinforced the conviction of some experts that Chinese demand has peaked or soon will.
此次上调之后，最近煤炭需求的放缓就变得更加明显。一些专家确信中国的需求已经或即将达到峰值，调整后的数据印证了这一看法。
In the first 10 months of this year, China’s coal production fell 3.6 percent compared to the same time last year, a state planning official, Liang Weiliang, said this month.
国家计划官员连维良本月表示，今年头10个月中国煤炭产量同比下降3.6%。
“We must be fully prepared for the eventuality that clean energy will not only take up the growth in energy consumption, but will also increasingly displace current stocks” of power plants, Mr. Liang said at a meeting of coal traders.
连维良在煤炭交易会上表示，“我们要有充分准备，清洁能源不仅将占有能源消费的增量，而且要越来越多的顶替存量。”
The Chinese government has vowed that emissions will stop growing by about 2030, although the recent slowdown has convinced more scientists that a peak by about 2025 is feasible.
中国政府承诺，其排放量将在2030年左右停止增长，但最近排放量增速放缓的情况令更多科学家相信，在2025年左右达到峰值是可行的。
But others argue that China’s appetite for coal will revive when the economy picks up, even if the days of double-digit growth are over. Despite the Communist Party leaders’ vows to clean up air pollution, local governments have promoted plans to build many more coal-fired power plants. This year, 155 proposed plants have received preliminary or full approval, said a recent report by Greenpeace East Asia.
但其他人认为，中国对煤炭的需求会随着经济的好转而恢复，即使两位数增长的日子已经结束了。尽管中共领导人发誓要清除空气污染，地方政府却在推动建设更多燃煤发电站的计划。绿色和平东亚分部(Greenpeace East Asia)最近的报告显示，今年有155个发电站建造计划得到初步或完全批准。
“There is the shifting structure of the economy and the shifting structure of energy consumption, but it’s also the low point in an economic cycle,” Zou Ji, a deputy director general of China’s National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International Cooperation, said in an interview. “I’m not optimistic that we’re near a peak.”
“经济结构是在转变，能源消费结构也是在转变，但还有经济周期现在正处于一个低谷，”中国国家应对气候变化战略研究和国际合作中心副主任邹骥接受采访时表示。“我对于要快接近峰值这个说法还不是乐观的。”
Even if China’s coal demand keeps falling, its growing demand for oil and gas are likely to continue driving overall carbon dioxide emissions upward, although more slowly than before, Wang Tao, a researcher on energy and climate change issues at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing, said in an interview.
清华–卡内基全球政策中心(Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy)能源及气候变化问题研究员王韬在接受采访时表示，即便中国的煤炭需求不断下降，中国对石油及天然气的需求仍可能推高二氧化碳总排放量，不过速度会放缓。