ONTARIO was thrown into an uproar recently when officials presented the first changes to the province’s sex-education curriculum since 1998. Starting in the fall, second graders will learn about “saying no” and “improper touching”; third graders will be introduced to gender identity and sexual orientation; and seventh graders will learn of the dangers of “sexting” and of sexually transmitted diseases.
安大略省官员最近公布了性教育课程的改革方案，引发一片哗然，这是自1998年以来首次对该课程进行改革。从秋天开始，二年级要学习“说不”和“不当触碰”；三年级要开始了解性别认同和性取向；七年级要了解“性短信”和性传播疾病的危害。
The Rev. Charles McVety, an evangelical minister, has led the charge against the new curriculum, calling it “sexually explicit and radical thinking” and a form of indoctrination.
基督教福音派牧师查尔斯·麦威蒂(Charles McVety)是反对阵营的领军人物，他称新课程的“性描述露骨，思维偏激”，是一种思想灌输。
But if you visit the Facebook page for Parents Against Ontario Sex-Ed Curriculum, you’ll find that it is populated less by white conservative Canadians like Mr. McVety than by minorities like Feras Marish, who helped start the page.
然而，如果你去“父母反对安大略性教育课程”(Parents Against Ontario Sex-Ed Curriculum)的Facebook网页看看，会发现那里占多数的不是像麦威蒂这样的保守派加拿大白人，而是费拉斯·马里什(Feras Marish)这样的少数族裔，后者是该页面的创建人。
Mr. Marish, a Muslim immigrant from Kuwait, told reporters that in his community, sexual relationships outside of marriage are frowned upon, “but now all of a sudden it’s being heavily promoted by schools.” Chinese- and Filipino-Canadians have signed on to his group’s message: “I preserve my right to raise my children following my cultural and religious beliefs, and the curriculum compromises my rights.”
马里什是来自科威特的穆斯林移民，他对记者说，在他的社群里，婚外性关系是不被接受的，“但突然一下子，学校开始大力推广它了”。华裔、菲律宾裔加拿大人纷纷对他的组织的观点表示支持：“我有权根据我的文化和宗教信仰来养育我的孩子，这个课程侵犯了我的权利。”
Enthusiasts of globalization often confuse it with liberalization. As people and ideas move around the world, the argument goes, ideals of individual liberty will replace the strictures of inherited tradition.
崇尚全球化的人，时常把它和自由化混为一谈。他们认为，随着人和观念在全世界流动，个体自由的理念将取代沿袭传统的桎梏。
The story of sex ed suggests otherwise. Globalization has served to curtail rather than expand school-based sexual instruction. The more the world has become interconnected, the more sex ed has come under attack.
性教育改革一事说明，情况并非如此。对于学校教育中的性指导，全球化起到的是抑制作用，而非推动。世界的互通越好，性教育遭到的攻击就越多。
Sex ed in the United States dates from the Progressive Era, when groups like the American Social Hygiene Association promoted education as a route to eradicating venereal disease and prostitution. (John D. Rockefeller Jr. was a strong proponent.) Practices across the world varied widely; the early Soviet Union embraced relatively libertine sex ed, viewing traditional propriety as a form of bourgeois pretension, but in Mexico, the Roman Catholic Church led efforts to block nearly all attempts to teach human sexuality in the schools.
美国的性教育始自“进步时代”，当时有美国社会卫生协会(American Social Hygiene Association)这样的组织在倡导用教育来杜绝性病和卖淫。（小约翰·戴维森·洛克菲勒[John D. Rockefeller Jr.]是一位积极倡导者。）世界各地的做法有很大不同；苏联早期实施了相对开放的性教育，视传统行为规范为布尔乔亚式矫揉造作的表现，但在墨西哥，所有在学校开展人类性知识教育的努力，几乎都以失败告终，罗马天主教会主导了抵制行动。
What’s distinctive in the last three decades is that immigrants have joined with native-born conservatives across the West to restrict these public-health teachings. As early as 1983, white conservatives in New Zealand warned that sex ed would alienate Maori populations as well as Asian immigrants.
过去30年的一个特点是，整个西方世界的移民和土生土长的保守派人士联手，对这些公共健康教育内容加以限制。早在1983年，新西兰的保守派白人就警告称，性教育会疏远毛利人和亚裔移民。
This new alliance against sex ed went global in 1994, when the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo enshrined “reproductive rights” as a goal. “Information and services should be made available to adolescents to help them understand their sexuality,” it declared.
这种全新的反性教育同盟，从1994年开始国际化，当时在开罗的国际人口和发展会议(International Conference on Population and Development)将“生殖权”奉为目标。会议宣告，“应该向青少年提供信息和服务，帮助他们理解性。”
The backlash was immediate. Egypt, the host of the conference, joined with four other Muslim countries in dissenting, saying the ruling “could be interpreted as applying to sexual relations outside of marriage,” as an Iranian delegate explained. Two predominantly Catholic countries, El Salvador and Guatemala, also dissented, as did the delegation from the Vatican, which sent a papal envoy to Iran to coordinate opposition to the conference’s liberal ethos on sexuality.
反对声顷刻间响起。会议主办国埃及和另外四个穆斯林国家一同发出异议，一位伊朗代表说，会议的决定“会被人认为是适用于婚外性关系”。两个天主教主导国家——萨尔瓦多和危地马拉——也表示反对，此外还有来自梵蒂冈的代表，后者向伊朗派出一名教宗特使，以携手反对本次会议在性问题上表现出的自由主义风气。
Even Benazir Bhutto, then the prime minister of Pakistan, and a cosmopolitan with degrees from Harvard and Oxford, offered a rebuke. “This conference must not be viewed by the teeming masses of the world as a universal social charter seeking to impose adultery, abortion, sex education and other such matters on individuals, societies and religions, which have their own social ethos,” she said.
连时任巴基斯坦总理贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)这样见多识广、拥有哈佛和牛津学位的人，都发出了斥责。“一定不能让全世界的广大民众以为，这次会议提出的是一份举世通行的社会宪章，旨在将通奸、堕胎、性教育等等事务强加于个人、社会和宗教，毕竟大家的社会风气都各有不同，”她说。
These tensions have played out in immigrant-heavy societies in recent years.
近几年，这种对立的情绪在一些移民众多的社会有明显表现。
In the Netherlands, native-born Pentecostals and newcomers from Morocco and elsewhere have repeatedly attacked the country’s famously liberal sex-ed curriculum. “It is ironic that public sex ed became acceptable in the Netherlands at the same time as large groups of Muslim immigrants, with ideals of modesty and obligatory innocence, became resident in the country,” a Dutch historian noted in 2003. In 2007, British Muslim representatives condemned sex ed for promoting adultery and homosexuality, with help from a Conservative leader who pointed to the “natural ties of friendship, common outlook and values” between Muslim immigrants and his party. In 2009, when Unesco released sex-ed guidelines that included information on masturbation and contraception, American conservatives called them “culturally insensitive” to minorities. “It’s a kind of one-size-fits-all approach that’s damaging to cultures, religions and to children,” one abortion opponent warned.
在荷兰，本土的五旬节派人士和来自摩洛哥等地的新移民不断对该国著名的自由主义性教育课程发起攻击。一位荷兰史学家在2003年说，“公共性教育在荷兰逐渐被接受，但让人哭笑不得的是，同时这个国家又迎来了大量穆斯林移民，他们恪守着朴素的、对贞操有强制要求的理念。”2007年，英国的穆斯林代表指责性教育是在鼓励通奸和同性恋，一名保守党领袖对他们表示支持，称穆斯林移民和他的政党“有着天然的友情和共同的观点与价值观”。2009年，联合国教科文组织(Unesco)发布了性教育指导原则，其中包括手淫和避孕的信息。美国保守人士称这是“漠视”少数族裔文化。“这是一种万金油式的办法，是会伤害到文化、宗教和儿童的，”一名反堕胎人士警告。
Sex educators say that young people are sexual actors, no matter their culture, so schools should help them “make choices” about their bodies. But millions of people see their culture as a bulwark against sex among youth, who should have no choice in the matter.
性教育工作者认为，无论在什么文化里，年轻人都是性的参与者，因此学校应该帮助他们去“选择”如何对待自己的身体。但是有千千万万的人认为，他们的文化是一道将年轻人跟性隔离开的屏障，年轻人不应该在这个问题上有选择权。
That’s why schools everywhere should proceed with caution. To be clear, no credible research supports the claim that sex ed makes young people more likely to engage in sex. But we don’t have strong evidence that it consistently reduces teen pregnancy or venereal disease rates, either.
这就是为什么世界各地的学校应该小心行事。有一点需要说明，没有任何可靠的研究表明，性教育会增加年轻人性行为的几率。但同时，我们也找不到有力证据证明，它能持续性地减少青少年怀孕或患上性病的几率。
We do know that adolescents get most of their sexual ideas from mass media — and from one another — rather than from schools. So the most promising interventions involve out-of-school peer counseling or text-chat services like ICYC (In Case You’re Curious) and websites like Sexetc.org, which allow teens to gather information free from adult scrutiny.
我们知道，青少年对性的认知大多并非来自学校，而是来自大众媒体——以及青少年彼此之间。因此，最有效的干预应该是校外的朋辈咨询，或ICYC（In Case You’re Curious，意为“假如你好奇”。——译注）等文字聊天服务，以及Sexetc.org这样的网站，后者让青少年可以躲开大人的审视，在这里获取免费的信息。