China doesn’t seem to lack I.Q. — Chinese students ace examinations in educational establishments around the world. And Chinese increasingly seem to want E.Q., or emotional intelligence, with some educators concerned their students’ lack of emotional insight and ability will hinder them in life. But what about the growing idea of C.Q., or cultural intelligence?Cultural intelligence is an important issue for Julia Middleton, the founder of the London-based charity Common Purpose, which focuses on developing leadership. Mulling the reality of people trying to lead and understand each other in a globalized world, and why it matters that they do, Ms. Middleton wrote a book, “Cultural Intelligence,” subtitled “The Competitive Edge for Leaders Crossing Borders,” which was published in May.In it, she wrote that she was inspired by William W. George, Professor of Management Practice at Harvard University, who “leapfrogged the conventional academic notion of what C.Q. is and has given it a properly global perspective.”
中国人似乎并不缺少智商——中国学生在世界各地教育机构的考试中都是佼佼者。中国人似乎也越来越想要获得情商，因为一些教育工作者担心，缺乏对情感的洞察力和表达力，会成为中国学生人生道路上的阻碍。那文化智商呢？这个概念正在不断发展。对于朱莉娅·米德尔顿(Julia Middleton)来说，文化智商是一个很重要的问题。米德尔顿是伦敦非营利机构“共同目的”(Common Purpose)的创始人，该机构致力于培养领导力。在全球化的世界，人们正努力成为领导者并理解他人，基于对这一事实及其重要性的思考，米德尔顿撰写了《文化智商》(Cultural Intelligence)一书，副标题：“跨国领导者的竞争力”。该书已于5月出版。她在书中写道，自己得到了哈佛大学(Harvard University)管理实践教授威廉·W·乔治(William W. George)的启发，“他跳过了对文化智商的传统学术认识，给了它一个合理的全球视角。”
Together with Ronald Arculli, a political and cultural figure in Hong Kong and the chairman of Common Purpose Hong Kong, Ms. Middleton in a written interview talks about C.Q., the “flying dead,” how people who only speak English are missing out, and how China, a place that traditionally has been inward looking, could fit into the paradigm. All answers are from Ms. Middleton, unless marked “R.A.” for Mr. Arculli.
米德尔顿与香港的政治和文化名人、共同目的香港分会主席夏佳理(Ronald Arculli)一起，在书面采访中谈到了文化智商、“飞尸”(flying dead)，只讲英语的人为何错过了很多东西，以及中国这个传统上只关注自身的国家如何适应这样的范式。除了标注为来自夏佳理的言论，其他所有的回答均来自米德尔顿。
Q. Can you define for us “cultural intelligence”? How did you develop your idea and what does it promise?
问：你能给我们定义一下“文化智商”吗？你如何产生了自己的观点，文化智商会带来什么？
A. Cultural intelligence, in my view, is the ability to cross divides and thrive in multiple cultures.
答：在我看来，文化智商在于跨越界限，在不同文化中茁壮发展的能力。
I developed the idea from my father, who was a trader and traveled extensively. He saw more and more leaders starting to join him on the planes. He used to worry that the world would be run by these leaders, who called themselves global simply because they traveled, but were what he called the flying dead — leaders who travel constantly, touching down frequently and who are expected to deliver with no real idea where they are, who quantify their C.Q. in air miles. Instead, they should be the bridge builders of the world, making it more coherent.
我是从父亲的经历中萌发出的这种想法。他是一名交易员，去过很多地方。他发现飞机上出现了越来越多的领导者。他曾经担心，我们的世界就掌控在这些领导者手中。就因为到过很多地方，他们就自认为很国际化，但实际上，我父亲把他们叫做“飞尸”——频繁地出差、抵达世界各地，却根本不了解自己所到的地方，只会用飞行里程来量化文化智商。而他们本来应该成为在这个世界搭建桥梁的人，让世界更有凝聚力。
When I started writing this book, I knew C.Q. was important. Now that I’ve finished, I think I underestimated its importance. I think C.Q. will define the winners: the winning leaders; the winning cultures; the winning cities and the winning countries. What will cause them to thrive and ultimately succeed will be their ability not simply to cope with, but fully to benefit from, the heterogeneous nature of organizations and society.
我开始写这本书的时候，就知道文化智商很重要。而当我完成此书时，我认为自己低估了它的重要性。我认为文化智商在未来将是成功的关键：成功的领导者；成功的文化；成功的城市，以及成功的国家。让它们蓬勃发展并最终成功的，将不仅仅是应对各种各样的组织和社会的能力，而是从中受益的能力。
Ultimately, I think C.Q. is about openness; a refusal to lock yourself in your own culture, behind a door you refuse to open; a belief that other cultures will enrich yours rather than dilute it; a willingness to use all encounters — whether helpful or grim — to build your C.Q.
归根结底，我认为文化智商意味着开放；意味着拒绝在自己的文化中固步自封，拒绝推开你面前的大门；意味着相信其他文化会增强，而不是稀释你自己的文化；意味着愿意利用所有机遇——无论是有益的，还是不令人愉快的——来提高自己的文化智商。
Q. Here in China everyone is familiar with I.Q. Increasingly, people know of E.Q. But C.Q.? How will you get the message across?
问：在中国，人人都很熟悉智商这个概念。人们也开始逐渐了解情商。但是文化智商是什么呢？你如何把自己的观念传播出去呢？
A. It will happen naturally as more Chinese leaders travel, lead international teams, work in places like Africa, as their children want more and they have to learn to motivate them in teams, as the management of larger (increasingly magnet cities where the world’s most talented young people will convene) cities requires a more collaborative effort, as the corporates with global aspirations realize that they need employees with C.Q. and seek that talent. As they realize that they need more than simply the E.Q. to lead people “like themselves.”
答：这个过程将是自然而然的，因为越来越多的中国领导者会到世界各地游历，领导国际团队，在非洲那样的地方工作；因为他们的孩子会有更高的志向，他们也不得不学会在团队中激励孩子们；因为大型城市（这些城市的吸引力会越来越强，世界上最有才能的青年会聚集到那里）的管理更加需要合作；因为有国际抱负的企业会意识到他们需要有文化智商的雇员，并寻找这种人才。因为他们会意识到，要“像自己人一样”领导别人，需要的不只是情商。
Q. Can you talk a bit about the leadership work you’ve done in Shanghai and Hong Kong? What are the greatest strengths you see of people emerging from the Chinese education system? What are the greatest weaknesses?
问：能讲讲你在上海和香港开展的和领导力有关的工作吗？你认为从中国的教育制度走出来的人最大的优点是什么？最大的缺点呢？
A. Greatest strength, I.Q. To the extent they almost seem to be born with this and the system certainly sharpens this. This leads to a lot of focus in their leadership and approach to life. The education system is also extremely competitive and builds a lot of drive and ambition to achieve things.
答：最大的优点是智商。在某种程度上，他们几乎仿佛是天生具有颇高的智商，而教育制度无疑让这一点得到了强化。这导致人们非常关注他们的领导力和生活方式。中国的教育制度充满了极其激烈的竞争，塑造了大量实现目标的动力和志向。
Greatest weaknesses — almost in contradiction to the above, the greatest weakness is over focus and sometimes a lack of ability and desire to see context.
最大的弱点——几乎与上述情况相矛盾，最大的缺点是过于专注，有时缺少观察背景的能力和愿望。
Q. Is C.Q. something that people, especially children, who have grown up internationally will practice naturally? Or is it something that is still far from the norm?
问：在跨国环境下长大的人，尤其是孩子的文化智商会自然而然地得到练习吗？还是说文化智商距离进入主流有着很长一段路？
A. Children perhaps do have it naturally, the trouble is that they unlearn it fast as they get more boxed in and develop the conviction that whatever world they have been born into is the only or best one. Travel helps a lot, though sometimes there is the illusion of travel, people from the east or west travel to enclaves of their own worlds in new worlds. Then they are almost more dangerous, convinced that they have C.Q. but all they really have is stamps on their passports.
答：或许孩子的确天生具备文化智商，但问题是，随着他们接触到更多的条条框框，并逐步认为不管自己降生到一个什么样的世界，这个世界都是唯一或最好的，他们就会迅速忘记文化智商。游历大有帮助，尽管有时候会出现一种游历带来的错觉，东方人或西方人会去到新世界里，他们自己世界的飞地。这种情况下就很危险了，他们会自以为拥有文化智商，但其实真正有的不过是护照上的印章。
Take for example students who travel to study and spend their time becoming engineers or economists and learn nothing about the place they have studied and lived in, or the fellow students, more than likely from many different countries, that they have lived or studied alongside. The number of them is going to double from four to eight million a year by 2020. [Source: Unesco]
比如，一些学生出国留学，为成为工程师或经济学家付出了时间，但对他们学习和生活的地方，或与他们一起生活或学习的同学却一无所知，而这些同学很可能来自许多不同的国家。到2020年，全世界留学生人数将从每年400万的水平上增加一倍，到每年800万。（数据来源：联合国科教文组织）
The only guarantee of C.Q. is parents, educators and employers who encourage curiosity and don’t stamp out difference.
文化智商唯一的保障是，鼓励好奇心、不压制分歧的父母、教育工作者和雇主。
Q. Hong Kong is the quintessential intercultural city, and has been for a long time. Can you, or Ronald Arculli, explain where you see Hong Kong fitting into the C.Q. map; what does the city have to contribute to the world?
问：香港是典型的跨文化城市，而且这种情况已经持续很长时间了。你或夏佳理能解释一下，香港在文化智商版图上处于什么位置吗？以及这个城市能向世界贡献什么？
A. [R.A.] Hong Kong is truly a global city. Its growth and evolution through history makes it a city which is quintessentially about C.Q. This C.Q. was not acquired overnight but over many years. Hong Kong can be compared to a child born in his own home to adopted parents but finally reunited with his natural parents. Hong Kong acquired the ability to criss-cross boundaries and different worlds. It is something people have to do all the time.
答：（夏佳理）香港真的是一个全球化的城市。在历史上，它的增长和演化让这里成了一个典型的代表文化智商的城市。这种文化智商不是一夜之间获得的，而是经过了很多年。我们可以把香港比作一个在养父母的看护下，在自己家里出生的孩子，这个孩子最终和亲生父母团聚了。香港获得了来回跨越界线，穿插于不同世界之间的能力。这是香港人生活必备的技能。
However, within that, people have a very strong sense of “core” and “flex,” often sharpened by the realities of the environment that surrounds them. The reunification of Hong Kong with China in 1997 under the principle of “one country, two systems” is as simple as it is complex in Hong Kong’s C.Q. journey. The world can learn a lot from this journey.
然而，在这种背景下，人们有一种强烈的“核心”和“灵活”感。周遭的环境现实往往会让这种感觉增强。1997年，香港在“一国两制”的原则下回归中国。在香港文化智商的旅程中，此事既十分单纯，又极为复杂。全世界都能从香港的旅程中学到很多。
Q. What are the challenges to the C.Q. worldview? Where do they principally emanate from?
问：文化智商的世界观面临什么样的挑战？挑战又主要源自哪里？
A. [J.M.] The challenge for C.Q. is convincing the next generation of the importance of C.Q. without just telling them. You often hear people talk of “harnessing youth.” I suggest that we need to do the opposite. We need to trust that they will come to their own conclusions. Never has the need for the next generation to work it out for themselves been so great.
答：文化智商面临的挑战是，不用单纯的说教，而是要让下一代人信服文化智商的重要性。你会经常听到人们谈起“管教年轻人”。我建议反其道而行之。我们必须相信，他们会得出自己的结论。让下一代人自己发现这一点的必要性从未如此之大。
[R.A.] On my first day at law school, our tutor told us that he could teach us many things about the law, but he couldn’t teach us about life. For that, he said, we had to go out into the world and talk to people; to exchange experiences, not just have them.
（夏佳理）我读法学院的第一天，导师就告诉我们，他会教给我们很多法律知识，但他无法教我们生活。他说，在生活方面，我们必须走出去，进入世界，和人交流；去分享经历，而不仅仅是拥有经历。
Q. How do you deal with concepts of “best practice”? Is there a point where one has to agree that one way is more effective, or better, than another?
问：你们怎么看待“最佳实践”的概念？到了某个节点，人们是不是必须承认，某种方式比另一种更有效，或更好？
A. [J.M.] Best practice is a meaningless expression in my view; believing in it will get in your way of developing C.Q. Because it implies that it exists, and that there is a final state which encourages leaders to stop improving once they believe they have reached it. C.Q. is a never-ending journey.
答：（夏佳理） 在我看来，最佳实践是一种没有意义的说法。相信这种概念会妨碍你发展文化智商。因为这个概念意味着，存在最佳实践，存在最终状态，而这会鼓励领导人，一旦自认为已经做到了，就不再改进。文化智商是一段永远没有尽头的旅程。
Q. How important is multilingualism to C.Q.? Do children who grow up multilingual have an advantage?
问：多语言对文化智商有多重要？在多语言环境下长大的孩子有优势吗？
A. Language is an enormous barrier to C.Q. Consider the languages of the generations: expressions that come in and out of usage, adopted by young people or remembered by old, and often dividing the two.
答：语言是文化智商的一大障碍。想想代际之间的不同语言吧：新出现的和不再使用的表达，年轻人采用或上了年纪的人记忆中的说法，往往会让这两群人出现分歧。
Consider the jargon of the sectors, designed to keep them apart. And, in each case, keeping outsiders out. The “win, win, win” expression keeps East and West apart — and it keeps the private and NGO sectors apart, too. How often have I heard NGO leaders muttering about private-sector leaders “who can turn anything into a competition”? Or private-sector leaders tearing their hair out at the “waffle words in the NGO sector”? Sometimes it is almost as if language is being used to set traps to catch people out: to make them misunderstand or say the wrong thing. A colleague joined the police recently and she spent most of her first year acquiring a new lexicon: “There is a whole language of made-up words which only exist in policing,” she tells me.
想想不同领域的行话，它们的设计意图就是为了让各领域相互分离。而且，每种行话都会把外来者挡在门外。“赢赢赢”这种表达让东方和西方分离开了，也把私营领域和非政府组织区别开来。我经常听到非政府组织领导人低声抱怨，私营领域的老板“把什么都能变成竞争”。我也常常听到私营领域的领导人为“非政府组织的那些连篇废话”心焦。有时，语言似乎被用来设置陷阱，为的就是让人们出错：让他们误会，或是说错话。前不久，一个同事加入了警察队伍。第一年，她把大部分时间用在了掌握一套新词汇上。“有一大堆只会在警界出现的自造词，”她告诉我。
We all have our private languages, but leaders in search of C.Q. need to be very careful when and how (and with whom) they use them. At least the widespread use of English has made communicating across cultures much easier. English now has official or special status in at least 75 countries, with a total population of over two billion. This is undoubtedly helpful in many ways. Increasingly, people the world over can slip into a common language and communicate. This has a huge impact on levels of trust and of C.Q. Parents in many parts of the world today will go hungry to pay for their children to learn to speak English and make the resulting jump in their prospects.
我们都有自己的私密语言，不过，对于在何时使用、该如何使用（以及用到谁身上）的问题，寻找文化智商的领导人必须要极其谨慎。至少英语的广泛使用，让跨文化沟通变得更加容易了。目前，至少在75个国家，英语要么是拥有特殊的地位，要么就是官方语言；全球总共有20多亿人口说英语。这一点无疑在许多方面是有益的。世界各地的人会越来越多地变得使用同一种语言来交流。这会对人与人之间的信任度，以及文化智商的发展程度产生巨大的影响。今天，全球许多国家的家长宁可忍饥挨饿，也要付钱让他们的孩子学说英语，从而让他们的前途获得飞跃。
Though this “common language” makes C.Q. much easier at one level, I do fear that it makes it far more difficult at another. In a growing number of countries, the majority of people are communicating through their second language (with South Africa and India being at the forefront). The downside of this is that ideas sometimes get lost, misunderstandings flourish and endure, words get longer (and sentences with them) and meanings get missed.
虽说这种“共同语言”能在某种意义上降低获得文化智商的难度，但我却真切地担忧，它会在另一种意义上大大提高这种难度。在越来越多的国家，大部分人口都通过第二语言（首先是南非和印度）交流。这种交流的缺点是有时人们会词不达意，误解频出而且持续不断，人们的用词越来越冗长，句子也相应地越来越长，意思却被忽略了。
The dominance of English also presents a particular problem for leaders whose first language is English, because there is a high probability that it is also their only language, and this can be a huge weakness. In the summer, I met the chairman of a large company that has global aspirations. I asked him how many languages were spoken on his board. He smiled confidently and said “four.” I thought for a moment and looked at the list. Then I asked what would happen if you didn’t count the Dutchman (since the Dutch tend to speak multiple languages). How many languages would the board members speak then? He paused, and said “one.”
英语的统治地位还给第一语言是英语的领导者提出了一个特殊的问题，因为英语极有可能是他们唯一会说的语言，这可能是一大弱点。今年夏天，我会见了一家志在全球的大公司的董事长。我问他，他的董事们一共会讲几种语言。他自信满满地微笑着说，“四种”。我思忖片刻，又去看了看名单。然后我问他，如果不把荷兰人算在内，会是什么情况（因为荷兰人多半会说多种语言）。如果是那样，董事们会说多少种语言？他停顿了一下说“一种”。
So many leaders whose first language is English do not learn a second one. But does this matter, if theirs is the dominant language? I think it does; it matters a lot. For several reasons.
所以，许多第一语言是英语的领导者，没有学过第二语言。可是，假如他们的语言是优势语言，学不学又有什么关系？我想是有关系的，而且关系很大。原因有几点。
To start with, they never experience at first hand the deep frustration, the awkward, tongue-twisting agony of attempting to get across your ideas which are flowing at 100 miles an hour, while your tongue and your poor brain (and whatever connects them) are stuttering and spluttering along at 10 miles an hour; of trying to communicate in a different language. Or if they do, it is only briefly, and abandoned pretty rapidly. English-only speakers never really grasp that, as a result, their communication with huge parts of the world is suboptimal. If you talk to university students who only speak English (who will tell you at length how global they aspire to be) and you ask them why they spend so little time with foreign students, they too often reply, “You know, their English isn’t that good.”
首先，他们从未亲身体会过那种试图让别人理解你的意思，或是用第二种语言沟通时所产生的深深的挫败感、尴尬感和舌头打结的痛苦，因为你的思维在以每小时100英里的速度奔涌，而舌头和可怜的大脑（以及所有把它们联系起来的器官）正在以每小时10英里的速度，磕磕绊绊、语无伦次地往外蹦词。即使他们真的尝试了，那也只是短短一瞬，他们很快就放弃了。只说英语的人从未真正地理解这一点，所以他们和全球大部分国家的沟通，都处在次优水平。如果你和只会讲英语的大学生对话，他们会喋喋不休地告诉你，自己多么渴望自己能“全球化”。可是如果问他们为什么和留学生相处的时间这么少，他们几乎总会回答，“你知道的，他们的英语不太好。”
The second problem is that people who only speak English don’t understand just how complex and nuanced translation can be and how vulnerable it is to misinterpretation. As a French speaker, I sometimes get asked for translations. Transactional, simple translations. Actually, they’re not even translations. Often, I am asked for exact equivalents: “What is the precise word in French for … ?” And, when you stumble to formulate a sensible answer, it’s you who seems to be the stupid one, and not them for asking a stupid question. I spoke in France at a leadership conference some years ago, just after an English speaker. He did a great talk — except that his refrain was a call for more collaborative leadership. I slipped him a note at a break saying that collaboration had a slightly different connotation in France, collaborators having been the traitors in World War II. His response – scrawled across my note, which I have kept — read, “They should learn English.”
第二个问题是，只会说英语的人不明白翻译有多复杂、多微妙，多么容易造成误解。我会讲法语，所以有时候会被人问到翻译问题。都是事务性的简单翻译。但实际上，那些甚至都不是翻译，人们常常问我准确对应的语汇：“法语里和……准确对应的词是什么？”当你磕磕巴巴地琢磨答案时，显得愚蠢的仿佛是你，而不是问出愚蠢问题的他们。几年前，我曾在一个领导人会议上用法语发言。在我之前，是一位用英语发言的人。除了是在重复呼吁领导者开展更多合作外，他的演讲颇为成功。在休息时，我塞给他了一张纸条，告诉他在法语中，“合作”(collaboration)这个词的含义略微有些不同，合作的人是指二战中的叛徒。他的反应是，在我给他的那张纸条上，潦草地写下了一句：“他们应该学英语”。我一直保存着那张纸条。
The third reason is that, all too often, English-only speakers think that if the other person speaks English too, then they share more than just a language. As Eric Thomas says, “English is only a language: it is not a culture.”
第三个原因是，只会说英语的人时常认为，如果另外一个人也说英语，那么他们共同拥有的就不仅仅是一门语言。但正如埃里克·托马斯(Eric Thomas)所说，“英语只是一门语言：不是一种文化。”