A global poll of attitudes toward wealth has found what many domestic critics allege already: Chinese today are just too materialistic.
针对财富观的一项全球调查证实了国内很多批评者已经发现的问题：当今的中国人太现实了。
The survey was conducted by the French market research company Ipsos in September and polled more than 16,000 adults in 20 countries.
这项调查由法国市场调查公司益普索(Ipsos)在9月份开展，调查对象涉及20个国家的逾1.6万成年人。
Chinese respondents topped the list in measuring success by their possessions, coming in more than double the global average, according to the results published last week. Seventy-one percent of Chinese respondents agreed with the statement “I measure my success by the things I own,” far higher than respondents from its East Asian neighbors South Korea, at 45 percent, and Japan, 22 percent. Respondents from developed economies generally disagreed with the statement. Just over 20 percent of Americans and Canadians agreed and only 7 percent of Swedes.Chinese were also the most likely to agree with the statement “I feel under a lot of pressure to be successful and make money.” Sixty-eight percent of Chinese surveyed agreed with this statement, followed by South Africa and Russia, both at 66 percent, and India with 60 percent. Americans scored evenly with the global average, with 46 percent agreeing.Despite being more optimistic about their country’s outlook than respondents from many other countries, Chinese ranked below the global average in terms of optimism about their personal future.
上周发布的调查结果显示，在用财产来衡量成功方面，中国受访者名列榜首，人数比例是世界平均水平的两倍多。有71%接受调查的中国人认同“我以自己拥有的东西来作为衡量成功的标准”这个说法，远高于东亚邻国：认同这一说法的韩国人占45%，日本人占22%。发达经济体的受访者一般不认同这一说法。略超过20%的美国人和加拿大人、以及仅仅7%的瑞典人认同这一观点。中国人也最有可能认同“我感到取得成功和赚钱的压力很大”这个说法。68%的中国受访者认同这一说法，排在其后的是南非和俄罗斯（均为66%），之后是印度（60%）。认同这一观点的美国人占46%，与世界平均水平相符。虽然中国人对自己国家前景的看法要比其他很多国家的人更乐观，但在对个人未来的乐观态度方面，中国人的排名低于世界平均水平。
The results of the poll have become the subject of much discussion online, with a First Financial Daily article, reposted on news portal Sina, drawing over 23,000 comments by noon Friday.
在一财网将这些调查结果发布到网站上以后，人们在网上对此展开了大量讨论，到周五中午，对这篇文章的评论数量已经超过23000条。
Other commenters appeared to see nothing amiss with the findings.
其他评论似乎没有认为调查结果有什么问题。
A poster from Anhui Province commented that money is “all-powerful” and that having it confers “honor, women and power.”
一条安徽用户的评论称，金钱是“万能的”，而有钱就意味着“荣耀、女人和权力。”
“In China, money can achieve many things that it can’t in other countries,” said another user, from Zhejiang Province. “So it seems that so-called capitalism or socialism is just an empty slogan. The social ideology is even more practical than in capitalist nations.”
另一名来自浙江的用户说，“在中国，金钱可以办到很多在其他国家办不到的事情，所以所谓的资本主义或社会主义似乎只是个空洞的口号。中国社会的意识形态甚至比资本主义国家更现实。”
Although large parts of the country remain poor, China now has a flourishing middle class and there are few major cities that do not boast a luxury shopping district or two. According to the research firm Euromonitor International, in 2012 China overtook France to become the world’s third-largest market for luxury goods.
虽然中国的相当大部分地区依然贫穷，但如今中国拥有一个不断壮大的中产阶层，几乎每个大城市都有一两个奢侈品购物区。根据调研公司欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor International)的调查，中国已在2012年超越法国，成为世界第三大奢侈品市场。
For those who have argued that Chinese society has become obsessed with money, the poll’s results should come as no surprise. Some Chinese have no hesitation about making conspicuous displays of their wealth — drawing a mixture of anger, ridicule and jealousy online. Increasing Internet usage in China has only made the wealth gap more visible, and photos of “tuhao,” a term of derision coined to mock garish consumerism, spread quickly through Chinese social media.
对那些认为中国社会沉迷于金钱的人来说，这些调查结果应该在意料之中。一些中国人毫无顾忌地炫富，这在网上引发愤怒、嘲讽和嫉妒交织的情绪。中国互联网使用越来越普及让贫富差距更容易暴露，很多“土豪”照片在中国社交媒体迅速走红，“土豪”是人们为嘲笑恶俗消费主义而发明的一个词。
The poll results should, however, be carefully weighed. Ipsos said that results from China “are not reflective of the general population” because the country’s Internet penetration rate is less than 60 percent. However, as in other countries that fall below that threshold, including India, Russia and Brazil, the participants in the survey are deemed to be “primary engaged citizens” with education, income and connectivity levels comparable to those in more developed countries, the company said.
然而，人们应当谨慎权衡这些调查结果。益普索称，来自中国的调查结果“并不能反映一般人群”，因为中国的互联网普及率仍不到60%。但是，该公司称，与尚未达到这个门槛的其它被调查国家（包括印度、俄罗斯和巴西）一样，参与调查的人士被认为是“主流参与市民”，他们的教育程度、收入水平和互联网使用与较发达国家人士相仿。
The report’s findings are the first in a series in the company’s Global Trends Survey that measure people’s values, views of government and the world. The company plans to release more results in 2014.
这份研究的结果是该公司“全球趋势调查”系列的第一份研究结果，该系列调查旨在衡量人们的价值观以及对政府和世界的看法。该公司计划在2014年发布更多调查结果。