HONG KONG — Liu Xuelong, a television and documentary producer in Beijing, hasn’t used his television in years. He gets all of his entertainment on his iPhone 6 Plus, where he also taps a plethora of apps to buy plane tickets, pay bills, talk with clients.
香港——在北京从事电视和纪录片制作工作的刘雪龙（音）多年没打开过自家的电视机了。他的一切娱乐都是在自己的iPhone 6 Plus上进行的。轻轻点击那上面的大量应用，他便可以买机票、结账，或者与客户沟通。
Weixin, a text and messaging app, is among his favorites. “Every morning the first thing I do when I wake up is log onto Weixin to see what new things my friends have shared online overnight,” said Mr. Liu, 25.
即时通讯应用微信是他最喜欢的应用之一。“每天早上醒来第一件事，就是登陆微信，看看前一天夜里朋友们在上面分享了些什么，”25岁的刘雪龙说。
Advertisers increasingly want to be part of Mr. Liu’s digital world — and of the other 527 million people in China with smartphones. Next year companies are expected to spend more money on digital advertising than on television campaigns in China.
广告商越来越想进入刘雪龙——以及中国另外5.27亿智能手机用户——所在的那个数字世界。在中国，企业明年在数字广告上的资金投入，预计会超过电视广告。
It is a stark shift from three years ago when nearly half of the advertising dollars went to television and just 14 percent went to digital, according to ZenithOptimedia, an advertising agency. China is also diverging from the United States, where television continues to dominate.
广告公司实力传播集团(ZenithOptimedia)称，同三年前相比，这是一个重大转变。那时候，近一半的广告投入流向了电视，而用于数字领域的广告投入仅占14%。中国也正在与电视依然占据主导地位的美国渐行渐远。
“It’s the first time we’ve had an enormous middle class emerge while being digitally connected,” said Jeff Walters, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group in Beijing. “It sets the stage for why digital advertising is so important.”
“这是我们首次看到，一个庞大的中产阶级的崛起伴随着他们与数字领域的密切联系，”波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)驻北京的合伙人魏杰鸿(Jeff Walters)说。“这为数字广告的极端重要性奠定了基础。”
With the largest pool of smartphone users in the world, China has become a petri dish for marketers and technology companies alike to test ways to get consumers to buy both online and off.
在智能手机用户人数居世界之最的背景下，中国已经同时成为了营销和科技公司的试验田，被它们用来测试那些旨在吸引消费者在线上和线下消费的广告方式。
Coca-Cola tapped into Weixin’s built-in reader for QR codes, two-dimensional bar codes, to start its Lyric Coke campaign in China. Coke bottles there featured famous Chinese lyrics like “Baby, I’m sorry,” and “I love summer.”
可口可乐(Coca-Cola)利用微信内置的二维码扫描器，在中国发起了歌词瓶活动。可乐瓶外面印上了“宝贝对不起”或“我爱夏天”等著名的中文歌词。
Coca-Cola then encouraged consumers to share a 10-second clip of a song with friends through social media by scanning the QR code on the bottle. Since its start in May, the Coke campaign has generated over three billion views, according to Isobar, the company responsible for the campaign.
然后，可口可乐鼓励消费者通过扫描瓶身上的二维码在社交媒体上与朋友分享一段时长10秒的歌曲片段。负责这次营销活动的公司安索帕(Isobar)称，自5月开始以来，可口可乐歌词瓶已经带来了超过30亿的点击量。
Five years ago, marketers could get away with simply using the same ads they used globally and just translating the message, said Shaun Rein, the founder and managing director of the China Market Research Group. Today, they have to speak to the Chinese dream.
中国市场研究集团(China Market Research Group)创始人和董事总经理雷小山(Shaun Rein)表示，五年前，营销机构可以使用和全球市场一样的广告，只要翻译一下核心信息就行了。但现在，它们必须要切合中国人的梦想。
“What is happening is that Western brands have to create new aspirations that the Chinese consumer wants,” Mr. Rein added.
“目前的情况是，西方品牌一定要创造出中国消费者接受的那种新的渴望，”雷小山还说。
In its campaign, Coke used contemporary Chinese pop songs. Ads for North Face, the outdoor wear company, featured images of animals from an African safari, in an effort to appeal to the growing legions of Chinese travelers.
可口可乐在自己的营销活动中利用了中国当代流行歌曲。户外服饰公司北面(North Face)的广告则主打非洲之旅中的动物图片，以吸引规模日渐壮大的中国游客消费群。
As in the United States and Europe, advertisers have to learn to adapt to changes in digital landscape, which in China can unfold at breakneck speed.
与在美国和欧洲一样，广告商必须学会适应数字领域的变化。在中国，这种变化的速度的可谓一日千里。
For several years, the microblogging site Weibo was the most popular forum in China. Much like Twitter, the platform allowed users to broadcast information to any user.
在早前的几年时间里，新浪微博一直是中国最受欢迎的平台。和Twitter很像，它允许用户向任何其他用户发布信息。
Weixin is now the most popular forum in China. Weixin and its international version WeChat together have 468 million active users. Weibo has 167 million active users today.
微信是中国目前最受欢迎的平台，国内版和国际版共有4.68亿活跃用户。新浪微博则是眼下拥有1.67亿活跃用户。
“I’ve been here four years. In that time I’m now on the third dominant social network — first it was Renren, then Weibo and now it’s WeChat,” said Chris Jones, the executive creative director at the ad agency Wunderman in China.
“我来了中国四年，先后使用过三种主要的社交网络——先是人人，然后是新浪微博，现在是微信，”伟门广告公司(Wunderman)中国区执行创意总监钟志勤(Chris Jones)说。
Weixin’s particular quirk — that users communicate only with friends and contacts within their circle — has allowed companies to develop direct relationships with consumers. But it also poses a challenge since users have to first choose to include a brand within their Weixin network.
微信的特殊之处在于，用户只能跟圈子内部的朋友和熟人交流。这让企业可以与消费者建立直接的联系。不过，它也构成了一个挑战，因为用户有权决定是否把某个品牌加入自己的微信平台。
The fashion house Burberry worked its way into consumers’ circles by giving users a chance to watch its Autumn-Winter 2014 runway show in real time, along with commentary from designers and celebrities watching the show. To get access to the show, users just had to add Burberry’s public account to their Weixin network.
时尚品牌博柏利(Burberry)进入消费者圈子的方法，是让用户有机会实时观看2014年的秋冬时装秀，以及设计师和名人对它的评论。为了观看这场活动，用户必须把博柏利的公众号加入微信。
Once Burberry is in their network, the fashion house can target users directly in the future. One interactive feature prompts users to click on “My Burberry” and type out their initials. An image of a monogrammed bottle of perfume then appears, along with details of how to buy it.
一旦进入了消费者的朋友圈，博柏利从此之后就可以直接对准目标用户群。博柏利还提供了一个互动功能：用户可以点击“My Burberry”，输入自己名字的首字母。然后，屏幕上就会出现一瓶印有首字母花押字的香氛，以及如何购买它的具体信息。
Not all digital ad campaigns in China have gone smoothly. One Chinese company called Tidy Laundry recently tried to stir up some attention online with a video posted to Youku Tudou, a Chinese streaming video site. In the video, two young women strip down to their underwear on the Shanghai metro. A man wearing a blue uniform then enters the subway car and hands them a clean set of clothes, which they change into. The Shanghai police fined the company, according to state media.
并非所有中国市场上的网络营销都进展顺利。中国公司泰笛洗涤最近曾试图通过在流媒体视频公司优酷土豆的网站上发布一则视频来吸引关注。在视频中，两名年轻女子在上海的地铁里脱掉了层层衣物，最后只剩内衣。一名穿着蓝色制服的男子随后进入地铁车厢，递给她们一套干净的衣服，让她们换上。据官方媒体报道，上海警方对这家公司处以了罚款。
Televisions and other more traditional advertising venues also play a complementary role in the digital world.
电视和其他一些更加传统的广告手段也对互联网广告营销起到了补充作用。
This year, Oreo began Play Together, a campaign that riffed on the idea that children don’t spend enough time with their parents, a subject of debate in China. Collaborating with Weixin, Oreo created an app that allowed parents and their children to take photos and turn them into playful emoticons to send to friends.
今年，奥利奥(Oreo)启动了“亲子一刻玩起来”的营销活动，灵感来自于父母和子女相处时间不足的问题——这是中国当下的热门话题。奥利奥与微信合作推出了一款应用，使得家长和孩子可以用它来拍摄照片，然后把它们变成有趣的表情符号发送给朋友们。
The campaign also featured a television ad for the Weixin campaign in which a mother and her daughter play together and share a bag of Oreos. As part of the media blitz, it used celebrity dads from the popular reality television show called “Father, Where Are You Going?” to promote the campaign through their own microblogs.
本轮营销中还推出了一则宣传微信活动的电视广告。广告中，妈妈和女儿一边玩耍，一边分享着一包奥利奥饼干。作为媒体攻势的一部分，公司找来了人气颇高的真人秀节目《爸爸去哪儿》中的明星爸爸，邀请他们在微博上进行宣传。
Television, too, helps bridge the generational gap. Even though Chinese consumers are highly connected, not everybody is getting the messages that brands are sending.
而且，电视也有助于弥合代沟。虽然中国的消费者上网程度高，但品牌试图传递的讯息也并非能够接触到所有人。