LOS TEQUES, Venezuela — As I compose these words from the Ramo Verde military prison outside Caracas, I am struck by how much Venezuelans have suffered.
委内瑞拉洛斯特克斯——当我在加拉加斯城外的拉莫弗迪(Ramo Verde)军事监狱写下这些文字时，我的脑海里满是委内瑞拉人承受的巨大苦难。
For 15 years, the definition of “intolerable” in this country has declined by degrees until, to our dismay, we found ourselves with one of the highest murder rates in the Western Hemisphere, a 57 percent inflation rate and a scarcity of basic goods unprecedented outside of wartime.
在这个国家，15年来“无法忍受”这个概念的底线不断被突破，直到我们悲哀地发现，我们国家的谋杀案发率处在西半球最高水平，通胀率高达57%，而基本物资的匮乏程度，在非战争时期是前所未有的。
Our crippled economy is matched by an equally oppressive political climate. Since student protests began on Feb. 4, more than 1,500 protesters have been detained, more than 30 have been killed, and more than 50 people have reported that they were tortured while in police custody. What started as a peaceful march against crime on a university campus has exposed the depth of this government’s criminalization of dissent.
与瘫痪的经济伴随而来的，是同样让人感到压抑的政治空气。自2月4日爆发学生抗议活动以来，已有1500多名抗议者被拘押，30多人遇难，50多人称自己在遭警方扣留期间被刑讯逼供。抗议活动始于大学校园里反对刑事犯罪的和平游行，却暴露出了政府会以惩罚犯罪的手段，深入地惩戒异见。
I have been in prison for more than a month. On Feb. 12, I urged Venezuelans to exercise their legal rights to protest and free speech — but to do so peacefully and without violence. Three people were shot and killed that day. An analysis of video by the news organization Últimas Noticias determined that shots were fired from the direction of plainclothes military troops.
我已经入狱一个多月了。2月12日，我呼吁委内瑞拉人行使抗议和言论自由的合法权利——但要以和平方式，不要使用暴力。当天，有三人遭枪击身亡。新闻机构《最新消息报》(Últimas Noticias)对现场视频进行分析后认为，子弹是从身着便衣的军人所在的方向射出的。
In the aftermath of that protest, President Nicolás Maduro personally ordered my arrest on charges of murder, arson and terrorism. Amnesty International said the charges seemed like a “politically motivated attempt to silence dissent.” To this day, no evidence of any kind has been presented.
抗议活动发生后，尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)总统亲自下令，以谋杀、纵火和从事恐怖主义活动的罪名逮捕我。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)说，这些指控似乎是“一次带有政治动机的举动，目的是为了镇压异见”。迄今为止，官方没有拿出任何证据。
Soon, more opposition mayors, elected by an overwhelming majority in December’s elections, will join me behind bars. Last week the government arrested the mayor of San Cristóbal, where the student protests began, as well as the mayor of San Diego, who has been accused of disobeying an order to remove protesters’ barricades. But we will not stay silent. Some believe that speaking out only antagonizes the ruling party — inviting Mr. Maduro to move more quickly to strip away rights — and provides a convenient distraction from the economic and social ruin that is taking place. In my view, this path is akin to a victim of abuse remaining silent for fear of inviting more punishment.
不久之后，更多的反对派的市长也将和我一样，被关入监狱。他们是在去年12月份的选举中以压倒性多数当选的。上周，政府逮捕了圣克里斯托瓦尔的市长——学生抗议活动就是从那里开始的；还逮捕了圣迭戈市长，指控其违抗了命令，没有清除抗议者设置的路障。但是，我们不会保持沉默。有些人认为，大声表达意见只会激怒执政党，使马杜罗更迅速地采取行动，制约权利，并让他们可以名正言顺地忽视目前经济和社会状况的恶化。在我看来，这种做法就如同一个被虐待的人，因为怕受到更多惩罚而忍气吞声一样。
More important, millions of Venezuelans do not have the luxury of playing the “long game,” of waiting for change that never comes.
更重要的是，数百万委内瑞拉人打不起“持久战”，也等不起永远不会到来的变革。
We must continue to speak, act and protest. We must never allow our nerves to become deadened to the steady abuse of rights that is taking place. And we must pursue an agenda for change.
我们必须不断发声、行动和抗议。即使权利总是受到侵犯，我们也绝不能允许自己神经麻木。我们必须要追求变革的目标。
The opposition leadership has outlined a series of actions that are necessary in order to move forward.
反对派领袖已经阐述了向前推进所需的一系列行动。
Victims of repression, abuse and torture, as well as family members of those who have died, deserve justice. Those who are responsible must resign. The pro-government paramilitary groups, or “colectivos,” that have tried to silence the protests through violence and intimidation must be disarmed.
压迫、虐待和酷刑的受害者，以及死者的家属，应该得到公正的对待。责任人必须引咎辞职。亲政府的准军事组织曾试图通过暴力和恐吓打压抗议活动，这些组织必须解除武装。
All political prisoners and dissenters who were forced into exile by the government, as well as students who were jailed for protesting, must be allowed to return or be released. This should be followed by restoring impartiality to important institutions that form the backbone of civil society, including the electoral commission and the judicial system.
对于所有被迫流亡的政治犯和异见人士，以及因为参加抗议活动而入狱的学生，必须允许回国或释放。在那之后，应该恢复重要机构的公正性，包括选举委员会和司法系统，这些机构是公民社会的支柱。