ARTEMIVSK, Ukraine — The plight of as many as 8,000 Ukrainian troops trapped in the vicinity of Debaltseve, as well as the prospects for an already fragile truce, look decidedly dimmer on Monday after a Russian television correspondent strolled down what was supposed to be a hotly contested road.
乌克兰阿特米夫斯克——周一，俄罗斯电视台的一名记者沿着一条本应处于激烈争夺中的道路漫步。画面播出后，被困德巴泽维附近的多达八千名乌克兰政府军的命运，以及本已脆弱不堪的停火的前景，无疑都看起来更加黯淡了。
The video on the Russian channel Life News, if reliable, seemed to prove that the road, the only artery of support for the Ukrainian troops, was firmly in the hands of the separatists.
如果可靠的话，这则来自俄罗斯Life News频道的视频似乎证明，乌克兰政府军唯一的主要补给线路已被分裂主义叛军牢牢掌控。
The status of this stretch of potholed asphalt has become a sticking point in the cease-fire and threatens to unravel the deal. The separatists say their control of the road means they have the Ukrainians surrounded. President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine has denied their claim, because conceding the point would force him either to negotiate for the release of the trapped soldiers or resume fighting to extricate them.
这段坑坑洼洼的沥青路的命运，已成为此次停火的症结所在，并使得协议面临破碎的威胁。叛军宣称，他们对这条道路的控制意味着，乌克兰政府军已被包围。乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)对此声明予以了否认，因为承认的话，将迫使他做出选择：要么通过谈判来让被困军人获释，要么重燃战火，解救他们。
A dozen or so soldiers escaped on Sunday, and on Friday a small group reportedly managed to walk out through the fields. Otherwise, nobody has left the town since Thursday.
周日的时候，有十多名军人逃离封锁；上周五，据称也有一小队人马成功突围。除此之外，上周四后就没有其他人离开过德巴泽维。
Already battered and giving ground after the conflict flared up a month ago, and fighting against forces they and Western governments say include the Russians, Ukrainian soldiers had been trying at least to hold onto their supply line until the cease-fire took effect, at midnight Saturday. It seems increasingly evident that they failed, putting the agreement in doubt.
一个月前冲突激化以来，乌克兰政府军已然遭遇重创、节节败退。他们和西方国家的政府称，他们抗击的部队中有俄罗斯人的身影。在这样的背景下，乌克兰政府军一直在努力抗争，希望在停火于周六午夜生效时至少能保住自己的补给线。然而，有越来越多的证据表明，他们看来失败了，从而令人对协议的前景生疑。
Previously, this section of road was known to be mined and within range of rebel artillery, though not occupied by rebel soldiers. The video, with a backdrop of blown-up tanks and dead Ukrainian soldiers, appeared to show Russian-backed militants on the road near Logvinovo, about five miles from Debaltseve.
此前，外界掌握的情况是，这段道路埋有地雷，且处于叛军炮火的射程之内，不过并未被其占领。新视频则显示，俄罗斯支持的武装人员出现在路上，而此处位于卢戈文诺伏附近，距离德巴泽维约五英里。视频的背景包括炸毁的坦克和乌克兰政府军人员的尸体。
Having apparently lost on the battlefield, Ukraine now will appeal for diplomatic pressure on Russia to prevail upon the separatists to open the road. But European leaders and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia were unable to solve the Debaltseve riddle during intense negotiations in Minsk last week, and it remains an open question whether they can now.
由于看来已在战场失利，乌克兰如今只能提请对俄罗斯施加政治压力，以劝说叛军重开这条道路。不过，在上周于明斯克进行的激烈谈判中，欧洲各国的领导人与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)未能解决德巴泽维问题，而他们现在能否就此达成一致仍是未知数。
Elsewhere in eastern Ukraine there were scattered cease-fire violations on Monday, as the European Union on Monday froze the assets of an additional 19 individuals and nine entities after delaying the announcement during the Minsk negotiations.
周一的时候，乌克兰东部其他地方出现了一些零星的违反停火的行为。就在同一天，欧盟宣布再冻结19人和9家实体的资产。为了明斯克的谈判，这项声明一度被延期。
Ilkka Kanerva, the president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, issued a statement welcoming the general success of the cease-fire but deploring “the illegal separatists’ false and counterproductive insistence that the deal does not apply to Debaltseve, a government-held town.”
欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的议会大会主席伊尔卡·卡内尔瓦(Ilkka Kanerva)发表了一份声明，对停火大体取得成功表示欢迎，但他同时强烈谴责“非法分裂分子所坚称的适得其反的错误说法，即此项协议并不适用于政府控制的德巴泽维”。
The security group is playing a central role in monitoring the cease-fire and, as of midnight Monday, the withdrawal of heavy weapons. The group, to which the United States and the European powers, including Russia and Ukraine, belong, has formed the three-way channel with the Ukrainian forces and the pro-Russian separatists that is supposed to oversee and carry out the Minsk agreement.
在监察停火及周一午夜撤回重型武器的事情上，欧安组织在发挥核心作用。该组织成员涵盖了美国和多个欧洲大国，也包括俄罗斯与乌克兰。它形成了一个乌克兰政府军和亲俄叛军之间的第三方沟通渠道，肩负着监督与执行明斯克协议的责任。
Security in Debaltseve was so shaky Sunday and early Monday that the group’s monitors had not yet gained access, said Germany’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Sawsan Chebli. The State Department said Monday night that the cease-fire in Ukraine was in jeopardy because of the Russian-backed separatists, adding that it was monitoring reports that a new column of Russian equipment was moving toward Debaltseve.
德国外交部发言人萨乌桑·谢布利(Sawsan Chebli)表示，周日及周一清晨，德巴泽维的安全局势岌岌可危，因而欧安组织的监察人员未能抵达该处。美国国务院周一夜间称，乌克兰停火协议因俄罗斯支持的分裂分子而面临危险，并指出自身正在关注有关一队新的俄罗斯装备在朝德巴泽维进发的报道。
Shelling continued through the day Monday at several locations in eastern Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Army reported that five members of a volunteer battalion had been killed near Mariupol, a port city on the Azov Sea.
在乌克兰东部的数个地方，炮击持续到了周一。乌克兰陆军通报，同属一个志愿营的五名成员在亚速海边的港口城市马里乌波尔附近丧生。
The cease-fire agreement also seemed to be breaking down on the second of its 13 points, which called for both sides to begin withdrawing heavy weapons by midnight Monday.
此外，这份包含13个要点的停火协议似乎在第二条就面临崩塌的危险。这一条呼吁双方在周一午夜开始撤出重型武器。
In Kiev, an army spokesman, Andriy Lysenko, said Ukraine would not pull back its artillery, tanks and rocket launchers until the first point, the cease-fire itself, took hold. On the road to Debaltseve on Monday, Ukrainian rocket-launching trucks rumbled not away from the front lines, but toward them.
在基辅，乌克兰陆军发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)表示，在协议的第一条——停火本身——得到巩固之前，己方不会撤出大炮、坦克和火箭弹发射器。周一在前往德巴泽维的通道上，乌克兰政府军的火箭弹发射车隆隆开往前线，而非后方。
In turn, Denis Pushilin of the main rebel group, the Donetsk People’s Republic, said separatist forces would not unilaterally pull back heavy weapons.
接下来，来自主要反叛组织顿涅茨克人民共和国(Donetsk People’s Republic)的丹尼斯·普希林(Denis Pushilin)称，分裂主义部队不会单方面撤出重型武器。
For war-weary Ukraine, the crumbling truce comes as a heavy blow, and for none more than the relatives of the surrounded soldiers in Debaltseve.
对深受战争所累的乌克兰而言，摇摇欲坠的停火是一个重大打击，尤其是对困在德巴泽维的军人的家属而言。