Most people, if pressed on the subject, would probably agree that extreme income inequality is a bad thing, although a fair number of conservatives believe that the whole subject of income distribution should be banned from public discourse. (Rick Santorum, the former senator and presidential candidate, wants to ban the term “middle class,” which he says is “class-envy, leftist language.” Who knew?) But what can be done about it?
收入极端不平等是一件坏事吗？如果要追问这个问题，可能大多数人都会表示同意，尽管不少保守派人士认为，收入分配话题应该整个从公共讨论中被禁止。（前参议员及总统候选人里克·桑托勒姆[Rick Santorum]希望禁止使用“中产阶级”这个术语，称它是“充满阶级嫉妒的左派语言”。谁知道呢？）但是，对此我们又可以做些什么呢？
The standard answer in American politics is, “Not much.” Almost 40 years ago Arthur Okun, chief economic adviser to President Lyndon Johnson, published a classic book titled “Equality and Efficiency: The Big Tradeoff,” arguing that redistributing income from the rich to the poor takes a toll on economic growth. Okun’s book set the terms for almost all the debate that followed: liberals might argue that the efficiency costs of redistribution were small, while conservatives argued that they were large, but everybody knew that doing anything to reduce inequality would have at least some negative impact on G.D.P.
在美国政治界，标准答案是“做不了太多”。差不多40年前，林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)总统的首席经济顾问阿瑟·奥肯(Arthur Okun)出版了一本名为《平等与效率——重大抉择》(Equality and Efficiency: The Big Tradeoff)的经典书籍，声称把富人的收入再分配给穷人会削弱经济增长。这本书为随后的几乎所有辩论设定了前提：自由派认为再分配的效率成本比较低，保守派则认为它很大，但是大家都知道，为减少不平等而采取的任何措施，都会多多少少对国内生产总值(GDP)产生负面影响。
But it appears that what everyone knew isn’t true. Taking action to reduce the extreme inequality of 21st-century America would probably increase, not reduce, economic growth.
但是，每个人都知道的事情似乎并不正确。采取措施来减少21世纪美国的极端不平等现象，可能会促进而不是削弱经济增长。
Let’s start with the evidence.
我们先来看看证据吧。
It’s widely known that income inequality varies a great deal among advanced countries. In particular, disposable income in the United States and Britain is much more unequally distributed than it is in France, Germany or Scandinavia. It’s less well known that this difference is primarily the result of government policies. Data assembled by the Luxembourg Income Study (with which I will be associated starting this summer) show that primary income — income from wages, salaries, assets, and so on — is very unequally distributed in almost all countries. But taxes and transfers (aid in cash or kind) reduce this underlying inequality to varying degrees: some but not a lot in America, much more in many other countries.
在不同的发达国家，收入不平等的程度差别很大，这一点众所周知。具体而言，美国和英国可支配收入分配不平等的程度远甚于法国、德国和斯堪的纳维亚国家。较少为人所知的是，这种差异主要是政府政策造成的结果。卢森堡收入研究所（Luxembourg Income Study，今夏我将开始为那里做一些工作）收集的数据显示，主要收入——工资、薪酬、资产，等等——在几乎所有国家都分配得非常不平等。但税收和转移支付（现金或实物援助）在不同程度上减少了这种根本上的不平等：美国也减少了一些，但不多，很多其他国家相对来说大大减少了这种不平等。
So does reducing inequality through redistribution hurt economic growth? Not according to two landmark studies by economists at the International Monetary Fund, which is hardly a leftist organization. The first study looked at the historical relationship between inequality and growth, and found that nations with relatively low income inequality do better at achieving sustained economic growth as opposed to occasional “spurts.” The second, released last month, looked directly at the effect of income redistribution, and found that “redistribution appears generally benign in terms of its impact on growth.”
那么，通过再分配来减少不平等的举措削弱经济增长了吗？国际货币基金组织(IMF)的经济学家进行的两个具有里程碑意义的研究显示没有。IMF可算不上是左翼组织。第一项研究调查了不平等和经济增长之间的历史关系，发现收入不平等程度相对较低的国家实现了经济持续增长，而不是偶尔“暴涨”。上个月发布的第二项研究对收入再分配的效果进行了直接调查，发现“就其对经济增长的影响而言，再分配似乎是良性的”。
In short, Okun’s big trade-off doesn’t seem to be a trade-off at all. Nobody is proposing that we try to be Cuba, but moving American policies part of the way toward European norms would probably increase, not reduce, economic efficiency.
总之，奥肯的“重大抉择”似乎根本就称不上一种得失权衡的抉择。没有人说我们应该照搬古巴的做法，但是调整美国的政策，使其部分向欧洲的范例靠拢，可能会提高而不是降低经济效率。
At this point someone is sure to say, “But doesn’t the crisis in Europe show the destructive effects of the welfare state?” No, it doesn’t. Europe is paying a heavy price for creating monetary union without political union. But within the euro area, countries doing a lot of redistribution have, if anything, weathered the crisis better than those that do less.
现在肯定有人会说，“但是，欧洲的危机难道没有证明福利国家导致了破坏性影响吗？”没有。欧洲在没有政治联盟的情况下建立货币联盟，确实为此付出了沉重的代价。但是在欧元区内，要说有什么区别的话，就是和再分配措施较少的国家相比，那些大举进行再分配的国家更加安然地渡过了那次危机。
But how can the effects of redistribution on growth be benign? Doesn’t generous aid to the poor reduce their incentive to work? Don’t taxes on the rich reduce their incentive to get even richer? Yes and yes — but incentives aren’t the only things that matter. Resources matter too — and in a highly unequal society, many people don’t have them.
但是，再分配对经济增长的影响怎么可能是良性的呢？慷慨地援助穷人，难道不是削弱了他们工作的动力吗？针对富人收税，难道不是削弱他们努力变得更加富有的动力吗？说得都没错——但动力不是唯一重要的东西。资源也很重要——在一个高度不平等的社会，很多人都缺少资源。
Think, in particular, about the ever-popular slogan that we should seek equality of opportunity, not equality of outcomes. That may sound good to people with no idea what life is like for tens of millions of Americans; but for those with any reality sense, it’s a cruel joke. Almost 40 percent of American children live in poverty or near-poverty. Do you really think they have the same access to education and jobs as the children of the affluent?
尤其是想一想这个大受欢迎的口号：我们应该追求机会均等，而不是结果平等。如果你不知道数以千万计的美国人的生活境况，可能还会觉得这个口号听起来很棒，但是对于那些了解现实的人来说，它就是一个残酷的玩笑。几乎40%的美国儿童生活在贫困或者接近贫困的状态中。你真的认为他们受教育的机会和就业机会和富裕家庭的孩子一样吗？
In fact, low-income children are much less likely to complete college than their affluent counterparts, with the gap widening rapidly. And this isn’t just bad for those unlucky enough to be born to the wrong parents; it represents a huge and growing waste of human potential — a waste that surely acts as a powerful if invisible drag on economic growth.
事实上，跟富裕家庭的同龄人相比，低收入家庭的孩子完成大学学业的可能性小得多，而且这个差距还在迅速拉大。这不仅对那些不走运生在贫困家庭的孩子来说很糟糕，而且还对人类潜能形成了巨大的、不断增加的浪费——这种浪费对经济增长的阻碍可能是无形的，但肯定是强力的。
Now, I don’t want to claim that addressing income inequality would help everyone. The very affluent would lose more from higher taxes than they gained from better economic growth. But it’s pretty clear that taking on inequality would be good, not just for the poor, but for the middle class (sorry, Senator Santorum).
我不会声称减少收入不平等对每个人来说都是好事。那些最富有的人从经济发展状况的改善中获得的好处，是不及税率提高给他们带来的损失的。但是，有一点相当清楚：对不平等现象采取措施是一件好事，不仅对穷人是这样，对中产阶级也是如此（不好意思了，桑托勒姆参议员）。
In short, what’s good for the 1 percent isn’t good for America. And we don’t have to keep living in a new Gilded Age if we don’t want to.
总之，对1%的人有利的事情对美国不利。如果我们不希望继续生活在一个新的镀金时代，我们是可以做出改变的。