Your book, “City Parks: Public Places, Private Thoughts,” is an anthology of writers musing about their favorite public parks. What was the genesis of the idea? I went to Paris for the first time when I was 23. We went to the Luxembourg Gardens one morning, and I was nearly moved to tears. It became my favorite place in the world. Whenever I was in Paris, I would insist on going there, even on the way to the airport.
你的书《城市公园：公共场所，私人思考空间》(City Parks: Public Places, Private Thoughts)是一本作家们缅怀自己最喜欢的公园的文集。你是怎么产生写这样一本书的想法的？我23岁时第一次去巴黎。有一天早上我们去了卢森堡公园，我感动得差点哭出来。那是我在这世界上最喜欢的地方。不管什么时候，只要在巴黎，我都一定要去那里，即便是在去机场的路上。
Bill Clinton wrote about Dumbarton Oaks in Washington. I was thrilled he did it. I’ve been a fan of the Clintons for years. I met Huma Abedin at an event when I was chairman of the New York Public Library. I always wanted to get Hillary to come speak there. I had a nice exchange with Huma, and within a week they said they’d be glad to do it. I thought that was a wonderful example of women helping women.
比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)写的是华盛顿的敦巴顿橡树公园(Dumbarton Oaks)。当时得知他肯写这篇文章我很激动。多年来，我一直崇拜克林顿夫妇。我任纽约公共图书馆馆长的时候，在一次活动中碰见了胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)。我当时一直想请希拉里到图书馆演讲。我跟胡玛交谈得很愉快，一周之后她们就说愿意来做演讲。我觉得那是女性之间互相帮助的一个很好的例子。
Or of Abedin being a good person to know. Yes, she’s someone who can get things done.
或者说胡玛·阿贝丁是个值得结交的人。是的，她是个办事能力很强的人。
Nicole Krause’s essay about Prospect Park touched on the seedier side of parks in New York City. She said it was a “lawless zone” in the 1970s. Jane Jacobs wrote that parks don’t necessarily help a neighborhood. They cost a lot of money to maintain. And there were times when the city went down, and so went the parks; when the city goes up, so go the parks.
妮可·克劳斯(Nicole Krause)关于展望公园(Prospect Park)的文章讲的是纽约市一个比较破旧的公园。她说，在20世纪70年代，那儿是个“法外之地”。简·雅各布斯(Jane Jacobs)曾写道，公园不一定有益于社区。维护公园要花很多钱。往往是，城市衰败了，公园也跟着衰败；城市兴旺了，公园也跟着兴旺。
There’s also an essay about the High Line, of which you were recently named co-chairwoman. A lot of people blame the park for sanitizing the area. I don’t think the High Line should be held culprit. I really don’t. It has done a lot for the community. It’s free. The city isn’t what it was, and I think the Meatpacking District was changing at the same time.
有一篇文章是关于高线公园(High Line)的。你最近刚被任命为该公园的联合主席。很多人认为是因为这座公园，这个地区才需要进行清理整顿。我觉得高线公园不应该背这个黑锅。我真的这样认为。它为这个社区做了很多。它是免费的。这座城市不再是从前的样子了，我觉得肉库区(Meatpacking District)也在跟着改变。
So we should blame Pastis? Yes. Or Jeffrey or the Gansevoort hotel. Those opened before the High Line was finished.
那我们应该指责茴香酒店(Pastis)？是的，或者杰弗里酒店(Jeffrey)，或者甘斯沃尔特酒店(Gansevoort)。在高线公园完工前，它们已经开业了。
You were chairwoman of the New York Public Library for seven years. Why parks and libraries? Libraries are free, and parks are free. When you think about the world and the economic inequality that is getting more extreme here in New York and elsewhere, you need to have great public spaces where people can all participate.
你曾担任纽约公共图书馆馆长七年时间。你为什么喜欢公园和图书馆这样的地方？图书馆是免费的，公园也是免费的。想想这个世界，想想经济不平等的情况在纽约和其他地方在加剧，你就会觉得要有一些良好的公共场所，让所有人都能参与。
Under your leadership, the N.Y.P.L.’s endowment grew by nearly 70 percent, to $800 million. Andrew Heiskell, whom I consider a guardian angel, once told me, “You don’t go out and ask people for money.” Instead, you create a place where they want to be involved.
在你的领导下，纽约公共图书馆的捐款增加了近70%，达到了8亿美元。我一直认为安德鲁·海斯克尔(Andrew Heiskell)是个守护天使，他曾经跟我说，“你不要走出去跟别人要钱。”你要创造一个他们自己想参与进来的地方。
You oversaw a $1.2 billion capital campaign called “Creating the Library for the Future.” What is a public library in the era of e-books? It’s a place of congregation. Librarians are there to help you find the information you need, to tell you about things you didn’t know about. They’re a place of refuge. And people still check out books.
你主持过一个12亿美元的募捐活动，名叫“为未来创建图书馆”。在电子书时代，公共图书馆是个什么概念？它是一个集会场所。图书管理员帮你找到你需要的信息，告诉你一些你之前不知道的东西。它是避难所。人们现在仍去图书馆借书。
They sound like community centers. Partly, but with a base of knowledge and learning.
听起来像是社区中心。从某种程度上讲是这样的，不过最基本的功能还是学习与知识。
People were not happy that you named the Fifth Avenue building for Stephen A. Schwarzman, the C.E.O. of the Blackstone Group. I think we have to distinguish that it was naming a building, not naming a library. One hundred million was a very generous donation.
人们不喜欢你用黑石集团首席执行官斯蒂芬·A·施瓦茨曼(Stephen A. Schwarzman)的名字给第五大道上的大厦命名。我觉得我们必须把这两点区分开：我们是用他的名字给那个大厦命名，而不是给图书馆命名。捐助1亿美元是非常慷慨的行为。
After leaving Lehman Brothers, you worked for Vogue. That’s a jarring career change. My life has been one hop from here to there. I was next to Si Newhouse at a dinner, some art-related event, and I said, “I love decorating.” And he said, “You should come work at House & Garden.” I did. A week later, Anna Wintour came and took it over and brought me with her to Vogue.
离开雷曼兄弟银行之后，你曾为《Vogue》杂志工作。那是个极大的事业转变。我的生活一直在跳跃。有一次在一个与艺术有关的晚宴上，我坐在西·纽豪斯(Si Newhouse)旁边，我说，“我喜欢装饰房间。”他说，“你应该来《House & Garden》杂志工作。”我就去了。一周后，安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)来接手该杂志，而后带我跟她一起去《Vogue》杂志工作。
You told me there was a certain park you were partial to in New York. I used to live on 11th and Fifth. There was a little church on one of those side streets in the West Village, and you could go in the park, and it would feel like you were in England. I can’t tell you how many times I wandered around looking for it.
你告诉过我你偏爱纽约的某个公园。我过去住在第11街和第五大道交叉处。在西村的其中一条小巷上有个小教堂，你可以穿过它进入一个小公园，你感觉自己忽然之间置身英国。我记不清有多少次我在那附近徘徊寻找那个公园。
It’s probably a condo now.Yeah, it’s gone.
它现在很可能变成了一座公寓楼。是啊，它已经消失了。