GLASGOW, Scotland — With nine days left before Scotland votes on whether to become independent, Britain’s leaders went into overdrive on Tuesday with efforts to keep the country intact.
苏格兰格拉斯哥——周二，距离苏格兰就是否独立举行公投还有九天时间，英国领导人变得格外努力，以使国家保持原样。
Jolted by recent polls suggesting that the outcome is very much in doubt, Prime Minister David Cameron and his counterparts in the other main political parties announced that they would put aside their parliamentary duties on Wednesday and fly north to campaign against dismemberment of the 307-year-old union with England.
最近的民意调查显示，公投的前景相当不妙。受到冲击的首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)和其他主要政党的领导人宣布，他们将放下议会的工作，于周三乘飞机北上开展活动，反对瓦解苏格兰与英格兰之间长达307年的联盟。
They rushed ahead with a last-minute plan to grant Scotland more say over its own affairs if it votes to stay in the union. They flew Scottish flags on English buildings. And the head of the Bank of England warned Scots against thinking that they could count on retaining the pound sterling as their currency should they secede.
他们携着一份最后时刻出炉的计划匆忙上阵。根据这一计划，如果苏格兰选择留在联合王国，将在自身事务上拥有更多的发言权。他们还在英格兰的建筑上悬挂苏格兰的旗帜。同时，英格兰银行(Bank of England)行长警告苏格兰人，如果分离出去，不要指望能继续把英镑作为自己的货币。
But in Easterhouse, one of Glasgow’s down-at-the-heels suburbs, neither promises of more autonomy nor pledges of English affection nor warnings of economic disruption seemed to be blunting momentum in favor of the pro-independence movement.
但在格拉斯哥破败的郊区之一伊斯特豪斯，不管是更多自治权的承诺，还是有关英格兰对苏格兰情真意切的誓言，或是经济会出现动荡的警告，似乎都未挫败支持这场独立运动的势头。
Sitting in her car outside the Shandwick Square mall, Jane McGeachy, 54, said she would vote “yes” because she wants change. Though independence would be a huge decision for her, her children and grandchildren, she said, the only sleepless nights she has had came from “the thought that it would be a ‘no’ vote.”
尚德维克广场购物中心外，坐在自己车里的简·麦吉奇(Jane McGeachy)表示会投“赞成”票，因为她希望看到变化。54岁的她说，尽管独立对她以及子女和孙辈而言都将是一个重大的决定，但唯一会让她晚上失眠的却是“投‘反对’票这个想法”。
On Monday, Gordon Brown, the former prime minister and a Scot, promised a series of new political powers for Scotland if voters rejected independence, and all three main parties — the ruling Conservatives and Liberal Democrats and their Labour opponents — agreed Tuesday to put the legislation on a fast track. But Ms. McGeachy was unimpressed, saying, “So why did he not give us more power” when he was prime minister?
周一，英国前首相、苏格兰人戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)许诺，如果选民反对独立，苏格兰将享有一系列新的政治权力。三大政党——联合执政的保守党和自由民主党，以及反对党工党——也在周二同意让这项立法进入快速通道。不过，麦吉奇不为所动地反问道，在担任首相时，“他为什么不给我们更多权力？”
If the polls are correct, Ms. McGeachy is the sort of voter who is propelling Scotland toward a breach with the rest of Britain. Recent polls suggest that women, who were more cautious earlier in the campaign, are turning toward the “yes” camp, as are working-class voters, even though the Labour Party opposes independence.
如果民调准确无误，那么麦吉奇便是正在推动苏格兰脱离大不列颠其他地区的那一类选民。近来的民调显示，在运动初期更显谨慎的女性，正在转向“赞成”独立的阵营。这一点和工薪阶层选民一样，尽管工党反对独立。
The Scottish National Party, which is campaigning in favor, seems to have struck a chord with voters in Easterhouse by calling for a more socially inclusive country that it says can be built only with the powers that independence would bring. Ms. McGeachy, a former care worker who is disabled by a spinal problem, said she was comfortably off because her husband owns an engineering business, but she remembers hard times when they were both on welfare and has friends who use food banks.
苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)正在开展支持独立的造势活动。通过呼吁建立一个社会更包容的国家，该党似乎在伊斯特豪斯的选民中引起了共鸣。苏格兰民族党称，只有通过独立带来的权力，才能建成这样一个国家。因为脊椎问题，曾是一名护理人员的麦吉奇行动不便。她说自己衣食无忧，因为丈夫拥有一家工程企业，但她依然记得两人靠救济为生的艰难岁月，而且现在也有朋友要靠食品银行接济。
Politicians of all political hues are unpopular here, and the British Parliament in Westminster is seen by many voters as remote and out of touch. The Conservative Party, which leads the current coalition government, has been little loved in Scotland for years, and now holds just one of Scotland’s 59 seats in Parliament.
在这里，任何阵营的政客都不受欢迎。在许多选民看来，威斯敏斯特的英国议会遥不可及。多年来，苏格兰人一直不大待见领导着当前这一届联合政府的保守党。如今，苏格兰在议会拥有59个席位，其中保守党仅占一席。
“The Tories have created a society for the greedy people,” Ms. McGeachy said.
“在托利党创造的社会里得利的是贪婪之辈，”麦吉奇说。
Though Easterhouse was once infamous for drug dealing, alcohol addiction and social deprivation, antipoverty activists say that much has improved in the last decade. Crumbling housing projects have been torn down and a big new shopping complex opened. But the British government gets little credit for that.
尽管伊斯特豪斯一度以贩毒、酗酒和社会剥夺闻名，但抗击贫困的活动人士称，过去10年，情况改善了许多。摇摇欲坠的住房工程被推倒，一家新的大型购物中心也开了业。但是，大不列颠政府并未因此受到嘉奖。
People who are unemployed and living off government assistance seem to be hard for the “no” campaigners to sway, while the “yes” campaign says it is attracting many disillusioned people who normally do not vote at all.
倡导投“反对”票的人似乎很难动摇那些靠政府援助过活的失业人员，而推动投“赞成”票的人则表示，现在有许多平时根本不投票的悲观失望者加入了他们的队伍。
Stephen Armour, 44, said he has lived off welfare since he was attacked in the street 19 years ago and suffered serious head injuries that left him with epilepsy and a hearing disability. He said he supported independence partly out of despair with his current situation.
44岁的斯蒂芬·阿穆尔(Stephen Armour)说，19年前，他在街头受到袭击，头部严重受伤，从此患上了癫痫，听力受损，之后一直靠政府福利生活。他表示支持独立，部分是因为对自己目前的处境感到绝望。
His welfare payments amount to little more than £100 (about $160) a week, he said, and there is no prospect of a job in construction, the work he did before the attack. He said he had depression and found little to fill his days apart from trips to pick up medication. The “no” campaign’s warnings that the Scottish economy would be hurt by independence have had little impact on Mr. Armour, who said that “things can’t get any worse.”
他说，每周的福利金共计100英镑（约合990元人民币）多一点，而且他不可能再回到遇袭前从事的建筑工作。他还说自己得了抑郁症，除了取药以外，每天几乎无事可做。推动对独立投“反对”票的人警告，倘若独立，苏格兰的经济将受到损害。但这种警告似乎对阿穆尔没有什么影响。他说，“事情又不可能变得更糟。”
Meanwhile, Alex Salmond, the leader of the “yes” campaign and Scotland’s first minister, seems to have had success in persuading people here that Scotland’s oil wealth could be deployed more equally across society, and that Scots could keep the pound as their currency even if they declared independence.
与此同时，“赞成”票阵营的领袖、苏格兰首席大臣亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)似乎已经成功地使这里的人们相信，苏格兰的石油财富将在全社会得到更公平的分配，而且在宣布独立后，苏格兰人仍然可以使用英镑。
The leaders of the three major parties in London have all rejected sharing the pound, and the governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, said Tuesday said that maintaining a common currency after independence was “incompatible with sovereignty.” Mr. Salmond says they are bluffing and that if London refused to negotiate a currency union, Scotland would walk away from its share of the national debt. Mr. Armour argued — as Mr. Salmond does — that “it’s our pound, too.”
伦敦三大政党的领导人都不同意分享英镑的使用权，而且英格兰银行行长马克·卡尼(Mark Carney)周二表示，独立之后还使用同一种货币“与主权独立相互矛盾”。萨尔蒙德宣称，他们是在吓唬人，如果伦敦拒绝商讨共享货币，苏格兰将不承担它那部分的国债。阿穆尔的说法与萨尔蒙德一样，“英镑也属于我们。”
“I’m sick of the English telling us what to do,” Mr. Armour said, adding that if Mr. Cameron visited Easterhouse, “I think someone would strangle him.”
“我已经厌倦了英国人对我们指手画脚，”阿穆尔说。他还表示，如果卡梅伦来到伊斯特豪斯，“我觉得有人会把他掐死。”
The positive language of the “yes” campaign, emphasizing freedom and opportunity and a once-in-a-lifetime chance for self-determination, is attractive to many who are still undecided. By contrast, the “no” campaign has struggled to shake off a reputation for negativity.
“赞成”独立的阵营拿出了积极的措辞，他们强调自由和机遇，以及不可多得的民族自决机会。这对那些尚未决定投什么票的人很有吸引力。相比之下，“反对”阵营则在摆脱消极的名声上苦苦挣扎。