LONDON — Freed from the shackles of the European Union, Britain’s economy would prosper and its security would increase. Britain would “take back control” of immigration, reducing the number of arrivals. And it would be able to spend about 350 million pounds, or about $470 million, a week more on health care instead of sending the money to Brussels.
伦敦——摆脱欧盟的束缚后，英国经济会蓬勃发展，其安全程度也会有所提升。英国将“拿回”移民问题的“控制权”，减少移民涌入量。此外，它每周都可以往医疗保健领域多投入3.5亿英镑（约合4.7亿美元），而不必再把那些钱交给布鲁塞尔。
Before Thursday’s referendum on the country’s membership in the 28-nation bloc, campaigners for British withdrawal, known as Brexit, tossed out promises of a better future while dismissing concerns raised by a host of scholars and experts as “Project Fear.”
英国于上周四就其是否留在共有28个成员国的欧盟进行公投前，脱欧推动者抛出了关乎更美好未来的种种承诺，并把一大堆专家学者发出的警告所引发的担忧斥为“恐吓计划”。
But that was before they won.
但那是在他们获胜前。
With financial markets in turmoil, a big drop in the pound and the prospect of further chaos, some supporters of Brexit are backpedaling on bold pronouncements they made just a few days earlier. “A lot of things were said in advance of this referendum that we might want to think about again,” Liam Fox, a former cabinet minister, told the BBC, including when and how Article 50 — the formal process for leaving the European Union — should be invoked.
在金融市场动荡、英镑大幅贬值、混乱有可能进一步加剧之际，一些刚刚于数日前抛出大胆论断的脱欧支持者开始改变口风。“对公投前说过的许多事情，我们或许都要重新思考，”前内阁大臣利亚姆·福克斯(Liam Fox)告诉BBC，其中包括里斯本条约第50条——也就是脱欧的正式程序——应在何时以何种方式启动。
Perhaps no promise was more audacious — and mendacious, critics say — than the £350-million-a-week claim. Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London who was the frontman of the Brexit campaign, toured Britain in a bus emblazoned with the slogan: “We send the E.U. £350 million a week, let’s fund our N.H.S. instead,” a reference to the country’s widely revered National Health Service.
批评人士称，没有哪项承诺比每周3.5亿英镑这个数字更大胆——也更虚妄。脱欧运动领导者、伦敦市前市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)曾乘坐一辆巴士巡游英国，巴士上印着这样一句口号：“我们每周给欧盟送去3.5亿英镑，还是把这些钱投向我们的NHS吧。”NHS指的是英国广受尊崇的国家医疗服务体系。
Hours after proclaiming “independence day” for Britain, Nigel Farage, the leader of the fiercely anti-European U.K. Independence Party, conceded that the £350 million figure was a “mistake.” Asked by the BBC on Sunday about the spending pledge, Iain Duncan Smith, a former Conservative Party leader who campaigned for Brexit, said the Leave side had merely promised “to spend the lion’s share of that money” on the health service.
持激进反欧立场的政党——英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)的领袖奈杰尔·法拉吉(Nigel Farage)在宣布英国迎来“独立日”数小时后承认，3.5亿英镑这个数字是个“错误”。当被BBC问及关于医疗保健开支的承诺时，脱欧推动者、保守党(Conservative Party)前党魁伊恩·邓肯·史密斯(Iain Duncan Smith)说，脱欧派只承诺“把那笔钱中的最大一部分花在”国家医疗服务上。
The shift was perhaps unsurprising, since the £350 million “independence dividend” never stood up to scrutiny. It excluded money returned to Britain through rebates and money that Britain spent to subsidize its farmers and poorer regions, according to the respected Institute for Fiscal Studies. The institute put the true figure at about £150 million.
上述转变或许没有什么好奇怪的，因为这3.5亿英镑从来没有经受住质疑。颇有威望的财政研究所(Institute for Fiscal Studies)称，该数字没把以回扣形式返回英国的资金，以及英国用来补贴本国农民和较贫困地区的资金计算在内。该研究所估计，真实的数字约为1.5亿英镑。
Supporters of the “Remain” side have angrily attributed the victory for “Leave” to a campaign of misinformation and even deception. In Cornwall, in the southwest corner of England, where a majority voted to leave, the leader of the county council, John Pollard, demanded that the government provide “investment equal to that provided by the E.U. program.” (The county has gotten about $1.3 billion in European Union assistance over the past 15 years, and was counting on about $550 million more by 2020.)
留欧派愤怒地宣称，脱欧派依靠信息误导乃至欺骗手段取得了胜利。在英国西南部的康沃尔郡，大多数人都投票赞成脱欧，郡议会负责人约翰·波拉德(John Pollard)提出，政府应该进行“规模与欧盟投资项目相当的投资”。（过去15年间，该郡通过欧盟扶助项目获得了13亿英镑的投资，原本预计到2020年会再获得5.5亿英镑。）
A Financial Times chart showing that the Leave vote was strongest in the parts of Britain that are the most economically dependent on the European Union was widely circulated online.
在网上得到广泛传播的一张《金融时报》(Financial Times)的图表显示，在英国某些对欧盟的经济依赖最严重的地区，投票支持脱欧的选民比例最大。
Promises to quickly reduce immigration levels are also being played down. Migration was the cornerstone of the Leave campaign, which objected to the European Union’s insistence on the free movement of labor, capital, goods and services. Since 2004, when 10 more countries joined the European Union, large numbers of eastern and southern Europeans have moved to Britain for work.
迅速减少移民涌入规模的承诺也在被淡化。脱欧运动以移民问题为基石，反对欧盟在劳动力、资本、商品和服务自由流动方面的坚持。自从10个新成员国在2004年加入欧盟以来，已经有大量东欧和南欧人涌入英国找工作。
Mr. Johnson argued that it was impossible for the government to reduce immigration while in the European Union. His ally Michael Gove, the justice secretary, said a leave vote would “bring down the numbers” by 2020. Experts have long said that would be very hard to pull off. The European Union has demanded from nonmember states — Norway, for example — free movement of workers in exchange for access to the bloc’s single market.
约翰逊声称，只要英国还留在欧盟，政府就无法减少移民涌入。他的盟友、司法大臣迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)说，为脱欧投票会“让移民涌入数量”在2020年之前“出现下降”。一些专家早就表示，这一目标极为难以达成。欧盟已经要求挪威等非成员国以工人的自由流动换取进入欧盟单一市场的通行证。
On Friday, the day after the referendum, Daniel Hannan, a member of the European Parliament and one of the most knowledgeable advocates of Brexit, stunned some viewers of the BBC by saying: “Frankly, if people watching think that they have voted and there is now going to be zero immigration from the E.U., they are going to be disappointed.”
欧洲议会议员丹尼尔·汉南(Daniel Hannan)是见识最广博的脱欧倡导者之一。上周五，也就是公投后的第一天，汉南的一番言论让BBC的一些观众颇为震惊：“坦白说，如果观众们以为他们已经投了票，现在再也不会有来自欧盟的移民了，那他们会失望的。”
Mr. Hannan wrote on Twitter, “I was for more control, not for minimal immigration.” Facing a backlash, he observed that a lot of Remain voters “are now raging at me because I *don’t* want to cut immigration sharply,” adding, “There really is no pleasing some people.” He then announced that he would “take a month off Twitter.”
汉南在Twitter上写道，“我赞成进行更有力的控制，而不是把移民涌入量降到最低。”面对网民的激烈反应，汉南指出，许多留欧派选民“现在因为我*不*想要大幅减少移民涌入人数而火冒三丈”；还表示，“有些人你真的没法让他们满意。”他随后宣布将“暂别Twitter一个月”。
Mr. Farage took the most hard-line position on immigration, unveiling a poster depicting a long stream of refugees under the headline “Breaking Point” and raising the prospect of Turkey’s joining the European Union (even though any of the 28 member states has veto power over accepting new members).
在移民问题上，法拉吉的立场最为强硬。他以“断裂点”为题发布了一款海报，上边是一眼望不到头的难民队伍，旨在告诫人们土耳其加入欧盟后的场面。（尽管在接收新成员的问题上，欧盟28个成员国都拥有一票否决权。）
Many Brexit campaigners expected to lose — even Mr. Farage said on the night of the referendum that he did not think his side had won — and for some the fight was as much about internal Conservative Party politics as the future of the country.
许多脱欧倡导者原本都觉得脱欧派会以失败收场——就连法拉吉也在公投那天晚上表示，他没想到自己的阵营取得了胜利——对一些人而言，这场斗争既关乎英国的未来，又关乎保守党的党内政治。
Having now ousted Prime Minister David Cameron, they face a political vacuum, with their base demanding that promises be kept. Mr. Johnson, the front-runner to replace Mr. Cameron, has not made any further pronouncements since a subdued statement on Friday that was restricted to generalities. If he does become prime minister, Mr. Johnson will face the task of carrying out a British withdrawal without provoking a backlash from those who believed campaign slogans or sentiments that he certainly appeared to endorse.
如今，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)已经被赶下台，他们面前是政治真空，以及要求他们信守前述承诺的铁杆选民。最有可能取代卡梅伦的约翰逊，自从在上周五发表了一份仅限于泛泛之谈的声明之后，尚未进一步做出任何表示。如果约翰逊真的成为首相，那他的任务就是：在展开脱欧程序的同时，不要触怒那些对他以前显然支持的脱欧运动口号或观点深信不疑的人。
“In voting to leave the E.U., it is vital to stress that there is now no need for haste,” Mr. Johnson told reporters. Standing alongside him, Mr. Gove promised, “We can have democratic consent for an immigration policy that is fairer and more humane.” He did not explain how.
“在投票脱欧这件事上，关键是要强调，现在没有必要太仓促，”约翰逊告诉记者。站在约翰旁边的戈夫承诺，“我们会就更为公平、更为人性化的移民政策达成民主共识。”但他并未解释如何去做到这一点。