COLUMBUS, Ga. — Republicans, poised for strong gains in the midterm elections, are offering starkly conflicting messages about President Obama to rally their voters. In one moment, they say the president is feckless and weak. But in the next, they say Mr. Obama is presiding over an “imperial presidency” that is exercising power that verges on dictatorial.
乔治亚州科伦布斯——在对奥巴马总统评价上，志在中期选举中取得大幅优势的共和党人释放了明显自相矛盾的讯息，希望以此吸引选民。他们时而说总统窝囊而孱弱。但一转眼又说奥巴马在经营一种“帝王总统制”，对权力的把持已经接近独裁的程度。
So far, they are succeeding in having it both ways.
迄今为止，他们在两个方向都取得了成效。
Representative Paul Broun, Republican of Georgia, who has accused Mr. Obama of “leading from behind” on foreign policy, stood before a gathering of Republican women here recently, his voice loud and deliberate, as he raced through a long list of areas where he said the Obama administration has veered “totally out of control” — the health care law, Internal Revenue Service treatment of conservative groups, and the National Security Agency’s surveillance program, to name a few.
乔治亚州共和党众议员保罗·布鲁恩(Paul Broun)指责奥巴马在外交政策上“跟在后面领导”，近日在这里举行的一个女共和党人集会上，他用响亮而沉着的语调，历数在奥巴马政府管理下“彻底失去控制”的一系列领域——医保法律、国税局(Internal Revenue Service)对待保守团体的方式以及国家安全局(National Security Agency)的监控项目等等。
As the crowd murmured its assent, Mr. Broun, who is running for his party’s Senate nomination, reached into his black blazer and pulled out the pocket-size Constitution he always carries.
伴随着人群中传出的阵阵赞同声，正在竞选本党参议员提名的布鲁恩伸手从黑色外套里掏出一本和他形影不离的袖珍版宪法。
“They’re a symptom of a government that has just totally left the bounds of our U.S. Constitution,” he said, “and the solution is putting this government back on the course that our founding fathers gave us in the U.S. Constitution.”
“这些都是一个完全跨越了美国宪法界线的政府所表现出来的症状，”他说，“我们的应对办法就是，让这个政府回到我们的国父在美国宪法中指明的轨道上去。”
If Republicans have a rallying cry heading into the 2014 midterm elections, it is their unified anthem against Mr. Obama’s “imperial presidency” — a two-word, bumper sticker-ready slogan that encapsulates their criticisms about government overreach through Mr. Obama’s prolific use of executive actions.
进入2014年中期选举之际，如果说共和党人有什么统一的战斗口号的话，那就是他们异口同声地反对奥巴马“帝王总统制”——一个可以直接做成车贴的标语，浓缩了他们对奥巴马大量使用政令实现政府权力过度扩张的批评。
The phrase is part of an effort by Republicans to nationalize a series of concerns about the Obama White House, and the role of government, into a pithy, compelling expression. The “imperial presidency” mantra not only captures existing voter frustration over the Affordable Care Act and turns it, Republicans believe, into a broader referendum on the president’s entire administration, but also reflects an underlying conservative philosophy about the appropriate role of government.
共和党人正在采取行动，将一系列针对奥巴马政府及政府职能的担忧推广至全美，变成一些简练而有说服力的表述，“帝王总统制”就是其中之一。共和党人相信，“帝王总统制”这道咒语不仅捕捉到了当前选民对《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的不满，将选举变成了对总统任期整体表现的一次全民公决，还体现了保守派关于适度政府职能的根本哲学。
“This is a real concern for a lot of people,” said Michael Steel, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner. “It’s important to be able to show that we’re doing everything possible to hold the president accountable for those people who believe the president is overstepping his constitutional authority.”
“这对很多人来说是个实实在在的隐忧，”约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)议长的发言人迈克尔·斯蒂尔(Michael Steel)说。“我们一定要清楚地表明，当总统超越宪法授予他的职权行事，我们会尽一切可能去让总统为他的行为负责。”
Or as Barry Loudermilk, a former state senator who is running for the Republican nomination in Georgia’s 11th Congressional District, explained before a campaign event in Powder Springs, Ga., “I think that the term ‘imperial’ is kind of descriptive enough that it resonates.”
或者如前乔治亚州参议员巴瑞·劳德米尔克(Barry Loudermilk)在鲍德尔-斯普林斯的一次竞选活动上所说，“我认为‘帝王’这个词颇为传神，已经足够引起共鸣。”劳德米尔克正在竞选乔治亚州第11国会选区共和党候选人。
Republicans have largely pounced on Mr. Obama’s decision to delay certain parts of his signature health care law as evidence that he views himself as above the law. But they also point to an array of other areas in which they believe the president is acting outside his governing mandate — his 2012 decision to stop enforcing some of the existing immigration laws pertaining to young unauthorized immigrants, and his directive to the Environmental Protection Agency to devise and issue rigorous carbon regulations on an aggressive timetable, among others.
奥巴马曾决定推迟实施其标志性的医保法案的某些部分，共和党人主要是抓住这一点来证明，奥巴马认为自己是高于法律的。但他们也会例举其他一些领域，认为总统在其中存在超越政府职权的行为——其中包括他在2012年决定，停止实施现行移民法中某些针对年轻偷渡移民的法规，他还向环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)发出命令，要求在短时间内尽快制定和实施一套严格的碳排放管制规则，诸如此类。
Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University who has testified before Congress on the issue of executive power, said that while the phrase “imperial presidency” dates back to President Nixon, the Obama and second Bush administrations “have really challenged the assumptions of the framers” of the Constitution.
曾就行政权力问题至国会作证的乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)法学教授乔纳森·特尔利(Jonathan Turley)说，“帝王总统制”的说法在尼克松执政期间就已经有了，但奥巴马和第二任期的布什政府才是“真正挑战了宪法框架内设想”的政府。
“President Obama has aggregated power in the executive branch to a degree most thought would have been practically impossible,” he said.
“奥巴马总统将分布在行政部门中的权力集中起来，这种集权的程度之前很多人都以为是不可能做到的，”他说。
Concerns about Mr. Obama’s big government agenda and “imperial presidency” are a common refrain at town meetings in Republican districts, Republican lawmakers and aides said.
共和党议员及其助手们说，在共和党选区的市民大会上，对奥巴马的大政府布局和“帝王总统制”的担忧是一个反复出现的话题。
“This is what we hear about all the time when we’re back in our districts,” said Representative Raúl R. Labrador, Republican of Idaho. “They’re concerned that you have a president who has decided to violate the law, who has decided to not comply with certain laws, that he decides which laws he will execute and which laws he will not execute.”
“我们在各自选区整天听到的就是这些，”爱达荷州共和党众议员劳尔·R·拉夫拉多尔(Raúl R. Labrador)说。“他们担心遇到一个决定违反法律的总统，他决定不去遵守某些法律，决定哪个法律是他会去执行的，哪些是不会执行的。”
The White House says Republicans are walking contradictions, accusing Mr. Obama of behaving imperialistically while simultaneously criticizing him for being a weak leader, especially on foreign policy. In a statement on the current crisis with Russia, Mr. Broun said, “The president has portrayed himself as weak, and that’s part of the reason we are facing this current situation in Ukraine.”
白宫说共和党人是自相矛盾的一个活生生的例子，一方面指责奥巴马的行为像个权倾朝野的帝王，一方面又批评他领导风格软弱，尤其是在外交政策上。布鲁恩在近日就俄罗斯危机发表的声明中说，“总统给自己塑造了一个软弱的形象，在一定程度上，这正是我们如今在乌克兰面临这种局面的起因。”
But the administration also argues that the president has little choice but to use executive authority in such a polarized political climate.
但政府方面也指出，在如此分化的政治环境下，总统别无选择，只能使用行政权力。
“Our view is there are things we want to pursue with Congress and there’s progress we want to make on our own, and the president is going to use whatever levers he can within government to do that,” said Jennifer Palmieri, the White House communications director. “We don’t see a political downside to it.”
“我们的看法是，我们有想在国会推进的东西，也有想自行开展的东西，总统会不拘一格地动用政府内部的任何工具，”白宫通讯联络主任珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)说。“我们看不出这在政治上有什么负面影响。”