Suddenly it’s O.K., even mandatory, for politicians with national ambitions to talk about helping the poor. This is easy for Democrats, who can go back to being the party of F.D.R. and L.B.J. It’s much more difficult for Republicans, who are having a hard time shaking their reputation for reverse Robin-Hoodism, for being the party that takes from the poor and gives to the rich.
突然间，志存高远的政治家们也可以谈论帮助穷人了，甚至必须这么做。这对民主党人来说很容易做到，他们只需要做回FDR（富兰克林·罗斯福）或LBJ（林登·约翰逊）时期的民主党就可以了。但这对共和党来说要难得多，作为一个劫贫济富的政党，他们已经难以甩掉“罗宾汉的对立面”的帽子。
And the reason that reputation is so hard to shake is that it’s justified. It’s not much of an exaggeration to say that right now Republicans are doing all they can to hurt the poor, and they would have inflicted vast additional harm if they had won the 2012 election. Moreover, G.O.P. harshness toward the less fortunate isn’t just a matter of spite (although that’s part of it); it’s deeply rooted in the party’s ideology, which is why recent speeches by leading Republicans declaring that they do too care about the poor have been almost completely devoid of policy specifics.
共和党要甩掉这个帽子之所以如此艰难，是因为它实在是名副其实。共和党人正在竭尽全力地伤害穷人——这个说法并不夸张。如果他们在2012年的选举中胜出，他们还会施加更大的伤害。此外，共和党对穷人的残酷不光是因为他们内心的恶意（虽然这是部分原因）；它还深深根植于该党的理念之中，这就是为什么虽然共和党领导人最近在演讲中声称他们真的在乎穷人，但几乎完全举不出具体的政策。
Let’s start with the recent Republican track record.
让我们共和党近期的表现说起。
The most important current policy development in America is the rollout of the Affordable Care Act, a k a Obamacare. Most Republican-controlled states are, however, refusing to implement a key part of the act, the expansion of Medicaid, thereby denying health coverage to almost five million low-income Americans. And the amazing thing is that they’re going to great lengths to block aid to the poor even though letting the aid through would cost almost nothing; nearly all the costs of Medicaid expansion would be paid by Washington.
美国当前最重要的政策是推出了《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)，即奥巴马医改(Obamacare)。然而，共和党控制的大多数的州拒绝实施这个法案的一个关键部分，即扩大联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)，从而拒绝向500万低收入美国人提供医疗补助。奇怪的是，即使提供这笔补助根本不需要什么成本，他们仍然费尽心机地拒绝让穷人获得补助；联邦医疗补助扩大带来的几乎所有成本都会由华盛顿支付。
Meanwhile, those Republican-controlled states are slashing unemployment benefits, education financing and more. As I said, it’s not much of an exaggeration to say that the G.O.P. is hurting the poor as much as it can.
与此同时，这些共和党控制的州正在削减失业救助、教育融资等福利。如我所说，说共和党正在竭尽全力伤害穷人，这并不夸张。
What would Republicans have done if they had won the White House in 2012? Much more of the same. Bear in mind that every budget the G.O.P. has offered since it took over the House in 2010 involves savage cuts in Medicaid, food stamps and other antipoverty programs.
如果2012年赢得了国会选举，共和党又会做些什么？其实和现在差不多。别忘了，自从2010年赢得众议院多数席位以来，共和党提出的每一个预算提案都涉及对联邦医疗补助、食品券和其他扶贫项目的大幅削减。
Still, can’t Republicans change their approach? The answer, I’m sorry to say, is almost surely no.
话说回来，共和党人就不能改变他们的态度么？很遗憾，答案是，基本上不可能。
First of all, they’re deeply committed to the view that efforts to aid the poor are actually perpetuating poverty, by reducing incentives to work. And to be fair, this view isn’t completely wrong.
首先，他们坚定地相信，帮助穷人的努力实际上只会让贫穷长期存在下去，因为这会令穷人工作的积极性的降低。公平地说，这个观点并不是完全没有道理。
True, it’s total nonsense when applied to unemployment insurance. The notion that unemployment is high because we’re “paying people not to work” is a fallacy (no matter how desperate you make the unemployed, their desperation does nothing to create more jobs) wrapped in a falsehood (very few people are choosing to remain unemployed and keep collecting benefit checks).
的确，在应用于失业保险时，这完全是扯淡。认为失业率很高是因为我们“给不工作的人发钱”是一个谬误（无论你把失业者搞得多么绝望，他们的绝望无助于制造工作机会），而这个谬误被包裹在一个谎言里（几乎没有人为了获得救助选择继续失业）
But our patchwork, uncoordinated system of antipoverty programs does have the effect of penalizing efforts by lower-income households to improve their position: the more they earn, the fewer benefits they can collect. In effect, these households face very high marginal tax rates. A large fraction, in some cases 80 cents or more, of each additional dollar they earn is clawed back by the government.
然而，我们零敲碎打、杂乱无章的扶贫计划，的确对努力改善处境的低收入家庭形成了惩罚效果：挣得越多，能领取的福利金就越少。实际上，这些家庭面临很高的边际税率。他们每多挣一美元，就要被政府收走一大半，某些情况下甚至不低于80美分。
The question is what we could do to reduce these high effective tax rates. We could simply slash benefits; this would reduce the disincentive to work, but only by intensifying the misery of the poor. And the poor would become less productive as well as more miserable; it’s hard to take advantage of a low marginal tax rate when you’re suffering from poor nutrition and inadequate health care.
问题在于，我们能够采用何种手段来降低这些高企的实际税率呢？我们可以干脆大幅削减福利金；这样只会让穷人雪上加霜，从而降低找工作的积极性。穷人不仅会生产率下降，还会活得更为悲惨；当你营养不良又缺乏医保的时候，很难享有低边际税率的好处。
Alternatively, we could reduce the rate at which benefits phase out. In fact, one of the unheralded virtues of Obamacare is that it does just that. That is, it doesn’t just improve the lot of the poor; it improves their incentives, because the subsidies families receive for health care fade out gradually with higher income, instead of simply disappearing for anyone too affluent to receive Medicaid. But improving incentives this way means spending more, not less, on the safety net, and taxes on the affluent have to rise to pay for that spending. And it’s hard to imagine any leading Republican being willing to go down that road — or surviving the inevitable primary challenge if he did.
或者，我们可以放满福利金削减的步调。实际上，这就是奥巴马医改众多未曾言明的优点中的一个。就是说，它不仅改善了众多穷人的生活，还增加了他们的积极性，因为随收入提高而医保福利逐步减少时，这些家庭还能获得补贴，而不是一旦富到不够格领取联邦医疗救助(Medicaid)的时候，就什么也得不到了。不过，用这种方式来增加积极性意味着，在福利制度上增加开支，而非削减，而且必须用向富人增税的方式来为之承担成本。然而，难以想象共和党的任何领头人物会愿意走这条路，或是这样做了之后，能在无可避免的初选挑战中赢得胜利。
The point is that a party committed to small government and low taxes on the rich is, more or less necessarily, a party committed to hurting, not helping, the poor.
关键是，一心向往小政府及给富人减税的党，或多或少地非得伤及穷人，而不是助他们一臂之力。
Will this ever change? Well, Republicans weren’t always like this. In fact, all of our major antipoverty programs — Medicaid, food stamps, the earned-income tax credit — used to have bipartisan support. And maybe someday moderation will return to the G.O.P.
他们能改弦更张吗？这么说吧，共和党人并非一向如此。实际上，我们所有的重大扶贫项目，无论是联邦医疗救助、食品券，还是劳动收入税收抵免，过去都得到了两党的一致支持。或许将来的什么时候，共和党会重返温和道路。
For now, however, Republicans are in a deep sense enemies of America’s poor. And that will remain true no matter how hard the likes of Paul Ryan and Marco Rubio try to convince us otherwise.
不过此时此刻，共和党人与美国穷人为敌，难以自拔。无论保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)和马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)之流如何卖力地想说服我们并非如此，这一点都改变不了。