WASHINGTON — The House Republican leadership’s broad framework for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws will call this week for a path to legal status — but not citizenship — for many of the 11 million adult immigrants who are in the country illegally, according to aides who have seen the party’s statement of principles. For immigrants brought to the United States illegally as young children, the Republicans would offer a path to citizenship.
华盛顿——浏览过共和党原则声明的多名幕僚表示，众议院共和党领导层起草的移民法全面改革大框架将于本周呼吁，赋予1100万成年非法移民中的许多人获取合法地位——而非公民身份——的途径。对于幼年时期被带到美国的非法移民，共和党则愿意提供入籍的途径。
But even before the document is unveiled later, some of the party’s leading strategists and conservative voices are urging that the immigration push be abandoned, or delayed until next year, to avoid an internal party rupture before the midterm elections.
不过，尚未等到这份文件于晚些时候公布，它就已经招致该党部分著名策略师及保守派人士的反对。这些人敦促，要么放弃移民改革的努力，要么延至明年，以免在中期选举前造成党内分裂。
“It’s one of the few things that could actually disrupt what looks like a strong Republican year,” said William Kristol, editor of the conservative magazine The Weekly Standard, calling an immigration push “a recipe for disaster.”
“如果说，有那么几件事可能真的会把共和党形势向好的一年搞砸的话，这就是其中一件，”保守派杂志《旗帜周刊》(The Weekly Standard)的主编威廉·克里斯托尔(William Kristol)说。他还称移民改革“后患无穷”。
“Don’t Do It,” said the headline on a National Review editorial on Monday aimed at the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio. “The last thing the party needs is a brutal intramural fight when it has been dealt a winning hand” — troubles with the president’s health care law — ahead of the elections, the editorial said.
《国民评论》(National Review)周一刊发了一篇社论，直接针对众议院议长、来自俄亥俄州的约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)，大标题为《千万不要》(Don’t Do It)。文中写道，中期选举前“共和党最不需要的就是，在拿着一手好牌的情况下来一场残酷的内斗。”而这手好牌，就是奥巴马医改的诸多问题。
At the same time, Republicans have seen their support from Latinos plummet precisely because of their stance on immigration, and the “statement of principles,” barely more than a page, is intended to try to reverse that trajectory.
然而，共和党之所以眼见自身在拉丁裔选民中的支持率直线下降，正是因为在移民问题上的立场。这份不到一页纸的“原则声明”，意在努力扭转这一趋势。
The statement of principles criticizes the American higher education system for educating some of the world’s best and brightest students only to lose them to their home countries because they cannot obtain green cards; insists that Republicans demand that current immigration laws be enforced before illegal immigrants are granted legal status; and mentions that some kind of triggers must be included in an immigration overhaul to ensure that borders are secured first, said Republican officials who have seen the principles.
看过这份原则声明的共和党官员称，声明批评，美国的高等教育体系培养了世界上最好、最聪明的一批学生，却任由他们因为没法获得绿卡而回国；声明强调，共和党应当要求，在非法移民获得合法地位之前，必须严格执行当前的移民法；声明还提到，移民改革中必须设立某些先决条件，以便首先保障边境的安全。
With concern already brewing among conservatives who call any form of legal status “amnesty,” the document has the feel more of an attempt to test the waters than a blueprint for action. House Republican leaders will circulate it at a three-day retreat for their members that begins Wednesday on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. Several pro-immigration organizations that have been briefed on the guidelines say they are not intended to serve as a conservative starting point for future negotiations, but rather as a gauge of how far to the left House Republicans are willing to move.
由于宣称任何形式的合法地位均为“大赦”的那些保守派人士中，已经在酝酿不满情绪，这份文件感觉更像是拿来试水的，而非行动蓝图。本周三开始，共和党众议员将在马里兰州切萨皮克湾东岸度过为期三天的封闭式休养，该党领导层计划借此机会散发文件。知晓内情的数家亲移民组织称，这些指导原则的目的不是成为保守派在未来谈判中的出发点，而是试探共和党众议员们愿意往左走多远。
The principles say that Republicans do not support a “special path to citizenship,” but make an exception for the “Dreamers,” the immigrants brought into the country illegally as children, quoting a 2013 speech by Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader. “One of the great founding principles of our country was that children would not be punished for the mistakes of their parents,” Mr. Cantor said at the time. “It is time to provide an opportunity for legal residence and citizenship for those who were brought to this country as children and who know no other home.”
原则声明中表示，共和党不支持提供“入籍的特殊途径”，但愿意给“梦想者”网开一面，即幼年时期被带入美国的非法移民。文中援引了众议院多数党领袖、来自弗吉尼亚州的埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)2013年的一次演讲。“我们伟大的建国之本中有一条是，子女不应代父母受过，”坎托当时说，“对于那些小时候被带到美国、只认这一个家乡的人，是时候给他们提供合法居留并入籍的机会了。”
Even ardent proponents of an immigration-law overhaul are, at best, cautiously optimistic. In June, a broad immigration overhaul — with a 13-year path to citizenship for the 11 million immigrants now in the country illegally, and stricter border security provisions that would have to be in place before the immigrants could gain legal status — passed the Senate with bipartisan support. But that legislation has largely stalled in the Republican-controlled House, where Mr. Boehner has rejected any negotiations with the Senate over its comprehensive bill.
不过，就连移民法改革的热心支持者，也顶多抱有谨慎乐观的态度。去年6月，一项宽泛的移民改革提案在两党的支持下获得参议院的通过，条款中包括，给当前的1100万非法移民提供13年的入籍途径，以及在移民能够获得合法地位之前必须让更为严格的边境保障条例就位。然而，这项法案在共和党控制的众议院里基本卡了壳。博纳拒绝就参议院的综合提案与之进行任何谈判。
Republicans party leaders, backed strongly by business groups, have said an overhaul is critical if they are to repair their political position with Latino and other immigrant voters.
在商界的强力支持下，共和党领导层已表示，如果想要修复与拉丁裔等移民选民的政治关系，移民改革至关重要。
Barry Jackson, Mr. Boehner’s former chief of staff, is consulting for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which supports an overhaul that expands high-technology visas and guest worker programs.
博纳的前幕僚长巴里·杰克逊(Barry Jackson)目前在为美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)提供咨询服务。该组织支持通过改革来扩大高科技签证与客工计划的规模。
But immigration is less of an issue during midterm elections, when immigrants are not as likely to vote. Often the biggest threats to Republicans are primary challenges from more conservative candidates who say that changing the immigration status of someone who is in the country illegally amounts to amnesty for a lawbreaker.
不过，移民问题在中期选举中的重要性不高，因为移民投票的可能性没那么大。共和党面临的最大威胁往往来自更为保守的候选人在初选中的挑战，这些候选人宣称，改变非法移民的地位，就等同于大赦违法者。
On the Democratic side, a major question is whether those pushing for a broad immigration overhaul would accept any Republican proposal that falls short of full citizenship for immigrants who are now here illegally. President Obama has said he wants any new immigration legislation to include a path to citizenship for both children and adults.
民主党方面，一大悬念在于，推动全面移民改革的那些人，是否会接受来自共和党的不给予当前非法移民完整公民权的任何提议？奥巴马总统已经表示，他希望新移民法能同时包含赋予儿童和成年人入籍途径的内容。
But citizenship, said Randel K. Johnson, a senior vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, is not “really critical to getting a deal done.”
然而，美国商会的高级副会长兰德尔·K·约翰逊(Randel K. Johnson)认为，入籍并非“达成协议的真正关键部分”。
“I think most people would think citizenship is important because then people feel they are part of the American dream,” Mr. Johnson said. But, he added, “if these people can come out of the shadows, work and travel, that’s what they want, that’s what recent polls have shown, and that will move the economy along.”
“我想，多数人会认为入籍比较重要，因为那样就会觉得自己参与了美国梦，”约翰逊说。不过，他又表示，“如果说这些人能走出阴影，能工作出行的话，那就是他们想要的，是近期民意的倾向，也就能够带动经济发展。”