WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Monday blocked President Obama’s third consecutive nominee to the country’s most powerful and prestigious appeals court and insisted they would not back down, inflaming a bitter debate over a president’s right to shape the judiciary.
华盛顿——周一，参议院共和党人拒绝了奥巴马总统对该国最具权力和声望的上诉法院法官席位的连续第三次候选人提名，坚称他们不会让步，引发了有关总统是否有权影响司法系统的激烈讨论。
By a vote of 53 to 38, the Senate failed to break a filibuster of Robert L. Wilkins, a federal judge who was nominated to fill one of three vacancies on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, falling seven votes short of the 60 needed. Two Republicans voted with the Democrats.
参议院的投票结果是53票对38票，没能挫败针对罗伯特·L·威尔金斯(Robert L. Wilkins)的拖延战术，这名联邦法官被提名填补哥伦比亚特区联邦巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit)三个空缺席位中的一个，所得票数却比所需的60票少了七票，由此未获通过。有两名共和党人投了与民主党人一致的票。
The impasse over Mr. Wilkins followed Republican blockades of two other candidates for the court since Oct. 31. Unlike previous fights over judicial nominees, the dispute is not as much about the judges’ individual political leanings as it is about the overall ideological makeup of the court. Republicans have raised few objections to any of the three candidates’ qualifications or legal positions.
自10月31日以来，共和党人此前已阻止其他两名候选人当选该法院的法官，如今，威尔金斯也面临僵局。与之前有关法官候选人的争论不同，此次争论更多是关于法院的整体意识形态色彩，而不是法官的个人政治倾向。共和党人对三名候选人的资格或法律地位都没有提出什么异议。
Rather, Republicans are seeking to prevent Mr. Obama from filling any of the three existing vacancies on the 11-seat court, fearing that he will alter its conservative tilt. The court has immense political importance because it often rules on questions involving White House and federal agency policy.
实际上，共和党人是在力图阻止奥巴马填补该法院三个空缺席位当中的任何一个，担心奥巴马会改变该法院的保守倾向。该法院共有11个席位，具有巨大的政治重要性，因为它经常就有关白宫及联邦机构政策的问题进行裁决。
Democrats accused Republicans of exercising a nakedly political double standard for confirming presidential nominees.
民主党人指责称，在批准总统提名的时候，共和党人赤裸裸地采用了政治上的双重标准。
“Appointing judges to fill vacant judicial seats is not court-packing,” Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, said Monday. “It’s a president’s right as well as his duty.”
“指定法官填补法院空缺席位，并不是打算用亲信填满法院，”内华达州参议员、民主党多数派领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)周一表示。“这是总统的权利和职责。”
After the vote, Mr. Obama issued a statement saying he was being held to an unfair standard. “Four of my predecessor’s six nominees to the D.C. Circuit were confirmed,” he said. “Four of my five nominees to this court have been obstructed.”
投票结束后，奥巴马发表声明称，人们对他使用了不公平的标准。“我的前任提名了六名华盛顿特区联邦巡回上诉法院候选法官，其中有四名获得批准，”他说。“我提名的五名候选人中有四名没有获得批准。”
Mr. Obama added, “The American people and our judicial system deserve better.” 
奥巴马还表示，“美国人民及我们的法院系统应该得到更好的对待。”
Republicans have argued that the court does not have a caseload large enough to merit filling the vacancies, and they have proposed legislation to shrink it by three seats. But that has no chance of becoming law in a Democratic-controlled Senate, so instead they have vowed to block any nominees for that court.
共和党人辩称，该法院等待处理的案件不够多，不值得填补空缺席位，而他们已经建议立法减少三个席位。不过，在一个由民主党控制的参议院，这不可能成为法律，因此他们发誓要阻止对该法院法官的任何提名。
For one day at least, business on Capitol Hill shifted away from the problematic effort to carry out the president’s health care law, prompting Republicans to accuse Democrats of trying to change the subject.
至少是在一天的时间里，国会(Capitol Hill)偏离了困难重重的工作重点，也就是实施总统的医改法，致使共和党人指责民主党人试图改变话题。
“Unfortunately, the Senate will not be voting on legislation to allow Americans to keep their health insurance if they like it,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. “Rather, we will be voting on another nominee to a court that doesn’t have enough work to do. The Senate ought to be spending its time dealing with a real crisis, not a manufactured one.”
“不幸的是，参议院不会就允许美国人自愿保留医疗保险的法律进行投票，”共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)说。“反过来，我们倒要就又一个提名人进行投票，就为了让这个提名人去一个没有太多工作要做的法院工作。参议院应该把时间用来处理真正的危机，而不是这种人为的危机。”
Republicans are on the verge of exhausting the last bit of tolerance Democrats have shown for such regular use of the filibuster on nominations. Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the Senate’s longest-serving current member, who has fought to safeguard the institution’s traditions, said Monday that momentum was building toward a rules change — a move so controversial that it is referred to as the nuclear option.
共和党在提名问题上频繁运用拖延战术，民主党对这种做法的忍耐即将到达极限。参议院目前资格最老的成员、佛蒙特州参议员帕特里克·J·莱希(Patrick J. Leahy)一直在为保卫该院传统作斗争。他周一表示，就目前的情况来看，规则可能会发生变化——此举极具争议性，所以被称为核选项。
“I’ve never seen anything like this,” Mr. Leahy said.
莱希说，“我从未见过这种情况。”
Republicans are making a bold gamble: Hold firm and allow no more judges to get through while hoping that Democrats do not alter filibuster rules so that the minority can no longer block judges. At times, they have dared Democrats to change the rules, saying that any move to stop filibusters will haunt them if the Senate and the White House ever flip back to Republican control and a seat becomes open on the Supreme Court.
共和党在进行一场大胆的赌博：坚守立场，不允许任何法官提名得到通过，同时期待民主党不改变关于拖延战术的规定，允许少数派继续阻挠法官任命。有些时候，他们还挑衅民主党，认为他们不敢改变相关规定。他们声称，停止拖延战术的任何举动都将给民主党带来持久的隐患，如果参议院和白宫重新回到共和党的控制之下，而最高法院(Supreme Court)的席位又出现空缺的话。
Senate aides said Monday that members of the Democratic leadership had started to gauge support for a rules change inside its caucus. Any changes would require 51 of the 55 members aligned with Democrats.
一些参议院助手周一表示，民主党领导人已经开始在内部会议上评估改变规定的举措可望获得的支持。任何变化都需要55名成员中的51人与民主党站在一边。
Many senators and outside advocates have begun to ask whether the atmosphere has grown so poisoned that Democrats see little reason to hold back.
许多参议员和外部倡议者都开始质疑，目前的气氛是否已经过于紧张，以致于民主党根本找不到让步的理由。
Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a group that advocates transparency in government and campaign finance, said Republicans would be likely to exercise the nuclear option themselves if they ever faced a Democratic blockade of important nominees.
提倡政府透明并协助竞选筹款的组织民主21(Democracy 21)的负责人弗雷德·韦尔泰梅(Fred Wertheimer)说，如果共和党人自己遇到了民主党人阻挠重要提名人的情况，他们很可能会采纳核选项。
“We’re not in a situation where the tradition and rules and history of the Senate are being recognized today. We’re in a situation where politics and partisan reasons have overridden the sense that there are rules of fair play that must be maintained,” he said.
他说，“现在的情况并不是大家都认同参议院的传统、规定和历史；现在的情况是，政治和党派原因压倒了必须维持公平竞争原则的观念。”
Judge Wilkins became the fourth of Mr. Obama’s choices for the District of Columbia court to be blocked by Republicans this year. Angry Democrats, noting that Judge Wilkins is African-American and that the three other nominees are women, said Republicans were stifling diversity.
威尔金斯法官是今年奥巴马提名却遭到共和党阻挠的第四名哥伦比亚特区巡回上诉法院候选法官。愤怒的民主党人指出威尔金斯法官是非裔美国人，其他三位提名人则都是女性，称共和党想扼杀多样性。