Recently Senator Rand Paul, potential presidential candidate and self-proclaimed expert on monetary issues, sat down for an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek. It didn’t go too well. For example, Mr. Paul talked about America running “a trillion-dollar deficit every year”; actually, the deficit is projected to be only $642 billion in 2013, and it’s falling fast.
最近，潜在的总统候选人、自封为货币问题专家的参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)坐下来接受了《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)的采访。采访进行得不太顺利。比如保罗谈到美国“每年都运行着1万亿美元的赤字”；其实，2013年美国的赤字预计只有6420亿美元，而且还在快速下降。
But the most interesting moment may have been when Mr. Paul was asked whom he would choose, ideally, to head the Federal Reserve and he suggested Milton Friedman — “he’s not an Austrian, but he would be better than what we have.” The interviewer then gently informed him that Friedman — who would have been 101 years old if he were still alive — is, in fact, dead. O.K., said Mr. Paul, “Let’s just go with dead, because then you probably really wouldn’t have much of a functioning Federal Reserve.”
但是，最有意思的地方可能是，采访者问保罗，在理想情况下，他会选择由谁来担任美联储主席。保罗推荐了米尔顿·弗里德曼(Milton Friedman)——“他不是奥地利学派的人，但他会比我们现在的人强。”这时，采访者小心翼翼地提醒他，弗里德曼——如果还活着，现在已经101岁了——已经过世。对此保罗答道，好吧，“我们就任用死人吧，因为这样一来美联储很可能就真的不会发挥什么作用了。”
Which suggests an interesting question: What ever happened to Friedman’s role as a free-market icon? The answer to that question says a lot about what has happened to modern conservatism.
这引出了一个有意思的问题：弗里德曼作为自由市场偶像的角色怎么了？这个问题的答案，可以很好地解释现代保守主义发生了什么。
For Friedman, who used to be the ultimate avatar of conservative economics, has essentially disappeared from right-wing discourse. Oh, he gets name-checked now and then — but only for his political polemics, never for his monetary theories. Instead, Rand Paul turns to the “Austrian” view of thinkers like Friedrich Hayek — a view Friedman once described as an “atrophied and rigid caricature” — while Paul Ryan, the G.O.P.’s de facto intellectual leader, gets his monetary economics from Ayn Rand, or more precisely from fictional characters in “Atlas Shrugged.”
弗里德曼曾经是保守派经济观念的终极化身，可现在他基本上已从右翼的话语中消失。当然，他的名字还是时不时被提及——但那仅仅是为了引用他的政治主张，而从来不是要援引他的货币理论。相反，兰德·保罗求助于弗里德里希•哈耶克(Friedrich Hayek)等思想家的“奥地利学派”观念——弗里德曼曾把这种观念描述为“萎缩和僵化的漫画”——而共和党事实上的理论领袖保罗·瑞恩(Paul Ryan)的货币经济观念来自于作家安·兰德(Ayn Rand)，或者更准确地说，来自于其作品《阿特拉斯耸耸肩》(Atlas Shrugged)中的虚构人物。
How did that happen? Friedman, it turns out, was too nuanced and realist a figure for the modern right, which doesn’t do nuance and rejects reality, which has a well-known liberal bias.
怎么会这样呢？事实证明，对于现代右翼来说，弗里德曼太讲究细腻把握，太现实主义了。现代右翼不搞细腻这一套，也拒绝接受现实，现实具有出名的自由主义偏向。
One way to think about Friedman is that he was the man who tried to save free-market ideology from itself, by offering an answer to the obvious question: “If free markets are so great, how come we have depressions?”
你可以这样来看弗里德曼：他试图挽救自由市场意识形态，以防其被自身拖垮，为此，他给一个显而易见的问题提供了一个答案，这个问题是：如果自由市场这么伟大，为什么还会发生萧条？
Until he came along, the answer of most conservative economists was basically that depressions served a necessary function and should simply be endured. Hayek, for example, argued that “we may perhaps prevent a crisis by checking expansion in time,” but “we can do nothing to get out of it before its natural end, once it has come.” Such dismal answers drove many economists into the arms of John Maynard Keynes.
在他出现之前，最保守的经济学家对这个问题的回答基本上是：萧条发挥一种必要的功能，我们只能咬牙承受它。例如，哈耶克就认为，“通过及时遏制扩张，我们也许可以防止危机”，但“一旦它到来，那么在它自然终结之前，我们做什么都摆脱不了它”。这么悲催的答案，当年把很多经济学家推到了约翰·梅纳德·凯恩斯(John Maynard Keynes)那一边。
Friedman, however, gave a different answer. He was willing to give a little ground, and admit that government action was indeed necessary to prevent depressions. But the required government action, he insisted, was of a very narrow kind: all you needed was an appropriately active Federal Reserve. In particular, he argued that the Fed could have prevented the Great Depression — with no need for new government programs — if only it had acted to save failing banks and pumped enough reserves into the banking system to prevent a sharp decline in the money supply.
然而，弗里德曼给出了一个不同的回答。他愿意做点小小让步，承认政府的确有必要采取行动防止萧条。但他坚称，政府需要采取的行动范围很有限：你唯一需要的就是适度积极的美联储。尤其是，他辩称，美联储本来可以防止上世纪30年代的大萧条(Great Depression)，而无需新的政府计划——只要它采取行动，拯救濒临破产的银行，并向银行体系注入足够的储备金，以防止货币供应量急剧下降。
This was, as I said, a move toward realism (although it looks wrong in the light of recent experience). But realism has no place in today’s Republican Party: both Mr. Paul and Mr. Ryan have furiously attacked Ben Bernanke for responding to the 2008 financial crisis by doing exactly what Friedman said the Fed should have done in the 1930s — advice he repeated to the Bank of Japan in 2000. “There is nothing more insidious that a country can do to its citizens,” Mr. Ryan lectured Mr. Bernanke, “than debase its currency.”
如我前文所说，这是迈向现实主义的一步（尽管从近年的经验看，这看上去是错的）。但是，当今的共和党受不了现实主义：保罗和瑞安都曾愤怒地抨击本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)应对2008年金融危机的做法，而那正是弗里德曼认为美联储在20世纪30年代应当做的事情——也是他在2000年对日本央行(Bank of Japan)重申的建议。瑞安以说教的口吻告诉伯南克：“一个国家对其公民可做的事情中，最猥琐的就是让本国货币贬值。”
Oh, and while we’re on the subject of debasing currencies: one of Friedman’s most enduring pieces of straight economic analysis was his 1953 argument in favor of flexible exchange rates, in which he argued that countries finding themselves with excessively high wages and prices relative to their trading partners — like the nations of southern Europe today — would be better served by devaluing their currencies than by enduring years of high unemployment “until the deflation has run its sorry course.” Again, there’s no room for that kind of pragmatism in a party in which many members hanker for a return to the gold standard.
既然说到货币贬值这个话题：在弗里德曼所做的纯粹经济分析中，最经久不衰的分析之一就是他在1953年对弹性汇率的论证。他主张，如果一个国家发现本国的工资和价格水平相对于贸易伙伴国家过高——就像今天的南欧国家那样——那么，与其忍受多年的高失业率，“直到通缩以造成巨大痛苦的方式走到尽头”，不如让本币贬值。同样，对于很多成员都渴望回归金本位制的共和党来说，这种务实态度也是没有容身之地的。
Now, I don’t want to put Friedman on a pedestal. In fact, I’d argue that the experience of the past 15 years, first in Japan and now across the Western world, shows that Keynes was right and Friedman was wrong about the ability of unaided monetary policy to fight depressions. The truth is that we need a more activist government than Friedman was willing to countenance.
嗯，我并不想把弗里德曼当成偶像来崇拜。事实上,我要说的是，过去15年来，首先在日本，现在在整个西方世界发生的情况表明，在单纯依靠货币政策抗击萧条的问题上，凯恩斯是正确的，弗里德曼是错的。事实是，相比弗里德曼愿意支持的程度，我们需要一个更加主动积极的政府。
The point, however, is that modern conservatism has moved so far to the right that it no longer has room for even small concessions to reality. Friedman tried to save free-market conservatism from itself — but the ideologues who now dominate the G.O.P. are beyond saving.
然而，关键在于，现代保守主义已经太偏右了，以至于它不再能够包容对现实做出的小小让步。弗里德曼试图挽救自由市场保守主义，以免它被自身拖垮——但现在主宰共和党的理论家们已经无可救药。