It has been more than 16 years since the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal. The 22-year-old White House intern is now a low-profile 40-year-old. The once-embattled President Bill Clinton has assumed a postpresidential role as global philanthropist and the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, is now a former senator, a former secretary of state, and a potential 2016 presidential candidate.
莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)性丑闻事件已经过去了16年多，当年22岁的白宫实习生现在已经成为低调的40岁女士。一度陷入困境的总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在卸任后成了全球慈善家，当年的第一夫人希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)不仅当过了参议员和国务卿，还有可能成为2016年的总统候选人。
And yet, it seems difficult these days to escape the scandal that rocked the late 1990s and led to Mr. Clinton’s impeachment.
然而，上世纪90年代末震撼世界并且导致比尔·克林顿面临弹劾的那桩丑闻，近日似乎又变得让人难以回避。
In response to attacks on the Republican Party as waging a “war on women,” Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has repeatedly recalled Mr. Clinton’s White House indiscretions. Mr. Paul said on “Meet the Press” late last month that Mr. Clinton had taken advantage of a young intern. “That is predatory behavior,” he added.
共和党遭受了“向女性开战”的指责，作为回应，来自肯塔基州的参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)多次提及比尔·克林顿入主白宫期间的不检点行为。上个月底，在接受《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目采访时，保罗表示，他占了一名年轻实习生的便宜。“这是猎艳行为，”他说。
On Monday, The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative website, unloaded a trove of documents from Mr. Clinton’s White House years from Diane D. Blair, a close friend of Mrs. Clinton who died in 2000. The Blair papers include diary entries based on conversations with Mrs. Clinton, private memos and letters that had been kept at the archives of the University of Arkansas, where Ms. Blair had taught political science.
本周一，保守派网站“华盛顿自由灯塔”(Washington Free Beacon)曝光了黛安·D·布莱尔(Diane D. Blair)在比尔·克林顿主政时期的一批文件。布莱尔是希拉里·克林顿的密友，已于2000年去世。这批文件包括私人备忘录、信件，以及记述与克林顿夫人交谈内容的日记。它们之前一直保存在布莱尔曾经教授政治学的阿肯色大学(University of Arkansas)的档案中。
The correspondence reveals new insights into how Mrs. Clinton dealt with the setbacks in the White House, such as her struggles to pass a health care overhaul and difficulties in dealing with journalists whom she described as having “big egos and no brains.”
对于希拉里·克林顿如何应对在白宫遭遇的挫折，比如她在试图通过一项医保改革时的挣扎，以及在应付被她形容为“非常自负、又没脑子”的记者时遇到的困难，这些文件揭示了新的视角。
“I know I should do more to suck up to the press,” Mrs. Clinton told Ms. Blair in 1996, according to the documents. “I know it confuses people when I change my hairdos, I know I should pretend not to have any opinions, but I’m just not going to,” she continued. Then, Mrs. Clinton said, “I’m used to winning and I intend to win on my own terms.”
“我知道自己应该更努力地讨好新闻界，”文件显示，她在1996年时跟布莱尔说，“我知道自己改变发型会让人们觉得莫名其妙，我知道自己应该假装没有任何意见，但我就是不会那么做，”然后克林顿说。“我已经习惯了获胜，我打算用我自己的方式来获胜。”
The papers also underscore the tensions contained in Mrs. Clinton’s reaction to her husband’s infidelities. As first lady, she was viewed broadly as a champion of women’s equality, but, according to the Blair papers, she did not see her husband’s behavior toward Ms. Lewinsky as exploitation.
这些文件还突显了克林顿对丈夫不忠做出回应时的压力。作为第一夫人，她被广泛视为妇女平等的拥护者，但是，从布莱尔的文件来看，她不觉得丈夫占了莱温斯基的便宜。
Mrs. Clinton called Ms. Lewinsky a “narcissistic loony toon,” according to a 1998 conversation Ms. Blair recalled. “HRC insists, no matter what people say, it was gross inappropriate behavior but it was consensual (was not a power relationship) and was not sex within real meaning” of the word, Ms. Blair wrote.
布莱尔回忆1998年的一次谈话时称，希拉里·克林顿称莱温斯基是“自恋的疯女人”。“HRC坚持认为，不管别人怎么说，这虽然是严重的不当行为，但它毕竟是经过双方同意的（不是一种权力关系），而且并不具有‘性’这个词的真正涵义，”布莱尔写道。
In his attacks on Mr. Clinton, Mr. Paul also recently said that “the media seems to have given President Clinton a pass” on his affair with Ms. Lewinsky. But Ms. Blair’s papers describe a White House that felt constantly under assault from the news media.
保罗近日在攻击比尔·克林顿时也表示，关于他和莱温斯基的风流韵事，“媒体似乎对克林顿总统网开一面。”但在布莱尔的描述中，白宫却感觉一直处在新闻媒体的攻击之下。
“She can’t figure out why these people out there so anxious to destroy them,” wrote Ms. Blair, who first befriended the Clintons in Arkansas in the late 1970s and who worked on the 1992 and 1996 presidential campaigns. “I told her I thought she was taking it too personally.”
“她想不通为什么这些人那么焦急地想要整垮他们，”布莱尔写道。“我告诉她，我觉得她把这事太往心里去了。”布莱尔最初是在上世纪70年代末在阿肯色州结识了克林顿夫妇，还在1992年和1996年参与了总统竞选的工作。
The mentions of Mr. Clinton’s personal life extend beyond Ms. Lewinsky. A Feb. 16, 1992, memo marked “privileged and confidential” highlights “possible investigation leads,” including a strategy to stop reports about Mr. Clinton’s alleged affair with Gennifer Flowers. The memo expressed the need to expose Ms. Flowers, who claimed to have had a 12-year relationship with Mr. Clinton, as a “fraud, liar and possible criminal to stop this story and related stories.” (Spokesmen for the Clintons declined to comment Monday.)
这批文件不仅提到莱温斯基，还提到了比尔·克林顿私生活中的其他人。1992年2月16日的一篇注明“机密文件、不得外传”的备忘录强调了“可以进行调查的线索”，其中包括一项策略，用来阻止外界报道他与珍妮弗·弗劳尔斯(Gennifer Flowers)之间据说存在的私情。弗劳尔斯声称，自己曾与比尔·克林顿有12年的关系，而这份备忘录表示，需要通过曝光弗劳尔斯“诈骗、撒谎，甚至可能犯罪，从而阻止这个故事和相关事件的传播。”（本周一，克林顿夫妇的发言人拒绝置评。）
It is unclear whether the resurrection of Mr. Clinton’s indiscretions will have any impact on his wife’s presidential ambitions. After all, she enjoyed some of her highest approval ratings as first lady when she seemed the injured party in their marriage.
目前还不清楚比尔·克林顿丑闻又被人旧事重提，是否会对他妻子竞选总统造成影响。毕竟，当她显得是婚姻中的受害方时，她作为第一夫人拥有的支持率达到了顶峰。
But Mr. Paul’s attack and the release of Ms. Blair’s papers come at a time when Mrs. Clinton’s operation has worked hard to diminish the dramas that played out in the 1990s and shed her image as a calculating, partisan operator. In her four years as secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton was barred from political activity, and in that time she was able to shape an appealing image as a hard-working, committed public servant who knew how to have some fun.
不过，保罗的攻击及布莱尔的文件出现之时，希拉里·克林顿的团队正在努力削弱上世纪90年代上演的那些戏剧性事件所产生的影响，帮她甩掉那种工于心计、按党派界线行事的形象。而在四年的国务卿任期里，她与政党活动绝缘，而且在那段时间里塑造了一种颇具吸引力的形象：她是一名勤奋工作、全心投入的公务员，知道如何乐在其中。
Ms. Blair’s writings reinforce that her friend had struggled with her image long before she ran for office herself. She mentions a 1992 poll titled “Research on Hillary Clinton” that found that the traits voters were willing to accept in Mr. Clinton — his political shrewdness and tactical mind — could seem “ruthless” when applied to Mrs. Clinton.
布莱尔的文字证实了，早在克林顿自己竞选公职之前很久，她就受到形象问题的困扰。她提到了1992年的一项题为“希拉里·克林顿研究”的民调，其中发现，同样一些品质，在比尔·克林顿身上的时候，选民们就愿意接受，比如在政治上的精明和熟稔战术的头脑，但在希拉里·克林顿身上，就或许会被看成“冷酷无情”。
(Of course, 12 years later, Mrs. Clinton would lose to Barack Obama in the 2008 Democratic primary, and her image would, in part, be to blame.)
（当然，12年后，希拉里·克林顿会在2008年的民主党初选中败给贝拉克·奥巴马，而其中的原因可以部分归咎于她的个人形象。）
Mr. Paul’s attacks and the papers could rehash the drama from the Clinton administration, particularly for young voters who have a rosy memory (or no memory at all) of the 1990s. Ms. Blair’s papers make Mr. Clinton’s office look particularly dysfunctional.
保罗的攻击和布莱尔的文字或许能让比尔·克林顿政府的闹剧重回公众视野，尤其是对90年代抱有玫瑰色记忆（或是干脆没有记忆）的那些年轻选民。布莱尔的说法让克林顿政府显得尤为运行不畅。
But, mostly, the papers paint a bleak picture of the Clintons’ time in the White House, filled with devastating personal trials, including, but not limited to, the death of Vincent W. Foster Jr., an old Arkansas friend and deputy White House counsel, and the Lewinsky scandal. Mrs. Clinton expressed frustration with Washington’s “insane process” and her determination to “figure out how to make the crappy thing work.”
不过，更重要的是，这些文字将克林顿夫妇在白宫的岁月描绘得黯淡无光，充满了毁灭性的个人考验，包括阿肯色州的老朋友、白宫副法律顾问小文森特·W·福斯特(Vincent W. Foster Jr.)之死，以及莱温斯基丑闻，不一而足。希拉里·克林顿表示，对华盛顿“错乱的进程”深感无奈，并且决心“想方设法搞清怎么做好这档子破事”。
The takeaway, perhaps, is not so much that the past could hurt Mrs. Clinton’s chances at the White House should she run in 2016. It is a question of why, after all that heartache, would she want to go back?
或许，值得关注的问题并不是如果希拉里·克林顿有意角逐2016年的大选，过去的事情能在多大程度上损害她的胜算。而是在于，经历了种种心碎之后，她是否还想重返白宫？