On Thursday, House Republicans released a deliberately misleading report on the status of health reform, crudely rigging the numbers to sustain the illusion of failure in the face of unexpected success. Are you shocked?
上周四，众议院共和党人发布了一份故意误导他人的医改现状报告，其目的是在意想不到的成功面前维持医改失败的假象，该报告对数字进行了简单粗暴的歪曲。你震惊了吗？
You aren’t, but you should be. Mainstream politicians didn’t always try to advance their agenda through lies, damned lies and — in this case — bogus statistics. And the fact that this has become standard operating procedure for a major party bodes ill for America’s future.
你没有震惊，但你应该感到震惊。主流政客从前并不总是试图通过谎言，该死的谎言以及——本例中虚假的统计数据——来推动自己议程。当这些手法成为了一个大党派的标准操作程序时，对于美国的未来而言，这可不是好事。
About that report: The really big policy news of 2014, at least so far, is the spectacular recovery of the Affordable Care Act from its stumbling start, thanks to an extraordinary late surge that took enrollment beyond early projections. The age mix of enrollees has improved; insurance companies are broadly satisfied with the risk pool. Multiple independent surveys confirm that the percentage of Americans without health insurance has already declined substantially, and there’s every reason to believe that over the next two years the act will meet its overall goals, except in states that refuse to expand Medicaid.
该报告的背景是：《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)虽然起步蹒跚，但由于参保人数后期出现了激增，超过早前预测，该法案的执行情况大大改观，至少迄今为止是这样，这才是2014年真正的大政新闻。参保者的年龄结构有所改善；保险公司对风险分摊体系感到大致满意。多项独立的调查证实，没有医保的美国人比例大幅下降，而且我们有充分的理由相信，在未来两年中，这个法案将达成其总体目标，只有那些拒绝扩大联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)的州是例外。
This is a problem for Republicans, who have bet the ranch on the proposition that health reform is an unfixable failure. “Nobody can make Obamacare work,” declared Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, a couple of weeks ago (when it was already obvious that it was working pretty well). How can they respond to good news?
对于共和党人来说，这种情况很麻烦，因为他们把所有赌注压在了医改方案会无可挽救地失败上。“没人能让奥巴马医保方案发挥效果”，众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)几周前表示（当时情况已经相当明显，这个方案的效果不错）​​。他们能对好消息作出怎样的反应呢？
Well, they could graciously admit that they were wrong, and offer constructive suggestions about how to make the law work even better. Oh, sorry — I forgot that I wasn’t writing jokes for the White House Correspondents’ Dinner.
其实，他们可以大方地承认自己错了，并且提供一些建设性的意见，讲讲如何让这个法案的效果变得更好。哦，对不起——我忘了，我不是在为白宫记者晚宴写笑话。
No, they have in fact continued to do what they’ve been doing ever since the news on Obamacare started turning positive: sling as much mud as possible at health reform, in the hope that some of it sticks. Premiums were soaring, they declared, when they have actually come in below projections. Millions of people were losing coverage, they insisted, when the great bulk of those whose policies were canceled simply replaced them with new policies. The Obama administration was cooking the books, they cried (projection, anyone?). And, of course, they keep peddling horror stories about people suffering terribly from Obamacare, not one of which has actually withstood scrutiny.
共和党人真正做的，是自从奥巴马医保方案的新闻开始转向正面以来他们一直在做的事情：向医疗改革投掷尽可能多的烂泥，希望有几块能粘上去。他们宣称保费飙升，实际上保费却低于预测。他们还坚称数以百万计的人失去了医保，其实那不过是旧保单被大批量取消，其中绝大部分由新保单取而代之。他们大嚷奥巴马政府在做假账。（以己度人？）当然，他们还不断传播一些可怕故事，说奥巴马医保方案给人们带来了怎样深重的痛苦，而这些故事中没有一个禁得起查验。
Now comes the latest claim — that many of the people who signed up for insurance aren’t actually paying their premiums. Obviously this claim is part of a continuing pattern. It also, however, involves a change in tactics. Previous attacks on Obamacare were pretty much fact-free; this time the claim was backed by an actual survey purporting to show that a third of enrollees hadn’t paid their first premium.
现在他们的最新说法又出笼了——很多参保者实际上并没有支付保险费。显然这是在故技重施，但是也出现了一些战术上的变化。以前他们对奥巴马医保方案的攻击，有很多缺乏事实依据；而这一次，他们的说法有一项真实调查作为支持，该调查显示，有三分之一的参保人尚未缴纳首期保费。
But the survey was rigged. (Are you surprised?) It asked insurers how many enrollees had paid their first premium; it ignored the fact that the first premium wasn’t even due for the millions of people who signed up for insurance after March 15.
但这个调查被人做了手脚。（你惊讶吗？）它问保险公司有多少参保人支付了首期保费，但却忽略了一个事实，即首期保费的缴纳截止日现在还没有到，因为数以百万计的人是在3月15日之后参保的。
And the fact that the survey was so transparently rigged is a smoking gun, proving that the attacks on Obamacare aren’t just bogus; they’re deliberately bogus. The staffers who set up that survey knew enough about the numbers to skew them, which meant that they have to have known that Obamacare is actually doing O.K.
这项调查被如此明目张胆地断章取义，确凿无疑地证明了奥巴马医保方案遭受的攻击不只是虚假的，有些还故意进行了歪曲。设计这项调查的工作人员只有知道很多信息，才能这么歪曲数字，这意味着他们肯定已经知道，奥巴马医保方案实际上进行得不错。
So why are Republicans doing this? Sad to say, there’s method in their fraudulence.
那么，为什么共和党会这么做呢？遗憾地说，他们的欺诈之举看似疯狂，实际上却是算计好的。
First of all, it fires up the base. After this latest exercise in deception, we can be fairly sure that Republican leaders know perfectly well that Obamacare has failed to fail. But the party faithful don’t. Like anyone who writes about these issues, I get vast amounts of mail from people who know, just know, that insurance premiums are skyrocketing, that far more people have lost insurance because of Obummercare than have gained it, that all the horror stories are real, and that anyone who says otherwise is just a liberal shill.
首先，这会煽动铁杆选民的情绪。在这份欺骗性的报告发布后，我们可以相当肯定地说，共和党领导人非常清楚地知道，奥巴马医保方案并未失败。但忠诚的共和党员就不知道了。就像其他撰稿谈论这些问题的人一样，我也收到了大量邮件，这些发件人知道——他们就是知道——保险费在暴涨，知道比起获得了医疗保险的人，多得多的人失去了保险，还知道所有可怕的故事都是真的，而那些说法不同的人全都是自由派的托儿。
Beyond that, the constant harping on alleged failure works as innuendo even if each individual claim collapses in the face of evidence. A recent poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that a majority of Americans know that more than eight million people enrolled in health exchanges; but it also found a majority of respondents believing that this was below expectations, and that the law was working badly.
此外，即使每个指责都在证据面前不堪一击，经常反复性地说医改失败了还是会给人留下这样的印象。凯泽家族基金会(Kaiser Family Foundation)最近的一项民意调查显示，大多数美国人都知道，逾800万人在医保交易所参了保；但这项调查也发现，多数受访者认为这个数字低于预期，医保方案开展得并不好。