On Saturday, Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming delivered the weekly Republican address. He ignored Syria, presumably because his party is deeply conflicted on the issue. (For the record, so am I.) Instead, he demanded repeal of the Affordable Care Act. “The health care law,” he declared, “has proven to be unpopular, unworkable and unaffordable,” and he predicted “sticker shock” in the months ahead.
周六，由怀俄明州参议员约翰·巴拉索(John Barrasso)发表了共和党每周演讲。巴拉索没有提到叙利亚问题，想必是因为他的政党在这个问题上意见极为不统一。（声明一下，我对这个问题的看法也十分纠结。）在演讲中，巴拉索要求废除《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable CareAct)。“事实证明，该医疗法案，”他说道，“不受欢迎、无法运作，而且我们也负担不起相关费用。”他还预测，接下来几个月，会出现天价医疗费。
So, another week, another denunciation of Obamacare. Who cares? But Mr. Barrasso’s remarks were actually interesting, although not in the way he intended. You see, all the recent news on health costs has been good. So Mr. Barrasso is predicting sticker shock precisely when serious fears of such a shock are fading fast. Why would he do that?
所以，又一个星期过去了，又一次出现了对奥巴马医改的抨击。有什么稀罕的啊？但是巴拉索的发言实际上却很有意思，不过不是以他想要的方式所表现出来的。你看，最近所有关于医疗费用的消息都是正面的。因此，巴拉索正是在对于这种天价医疗费的严重担忧快速消逝之际做出了上述预测。他为什么要这么做？
Well, one likely answer is that he hasn’t heard any of the good news. Think about it: Who would tell him?
一个可能的原因是，他没有听到任何好消息。想想吧：谁会告诉他呢？
My guess, in other words, was that Mr. Barrasso was inadvertently illustrating the widening “wonk gap” — the G.O.P.’s near-complete lack of expertise on anything substantive. Health care is the most prominent example, but the dumbing down extends across the spectrum, from budget issues to national security to poll analysis. Remember, Mitt Romney and much of his party went into Election Day expecting victory.
换言之，我觉得巴拉索无意中成为了共和党不断扩大的的“专家缺口”的绝佳注脚——即共和党几乎完全缺乏对任何重大问题的专家认知。医疗保险是最显著的例子，但是该党的智力衰退广泛体现在了各个方面，从预算到国家安全再到民调分析，不一而足。别忘了，米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和他的政党在大选日那天还期待着获得胜利呢。
About health reform: Mr. Barrasso was wrong about everything, even the “unpopular” bit, as I’ll explain in a minute. Mainly, however, he was completely missing the story on affordability.
关于医改：巴拉索说的话全是错误的，即使是医改“不受欢迎”那一点，我稍后会解释这个问题。然而，最重要的是，在负担不起相关费用上，他完全没搞清楚状况。
For the truth is that the good news on costs just keeps coming in. There has been a striking slowdown in overall health costs since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, with many experts giving the law at least partial credit. And we now have a good idea what insurance premiums will be once the law goes fully into effect; a comprehensive survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation finds that on average premiums will be significantly lower than those predicted by the Congressional Budget Office when the law was passed.
因为事实是，关于费用的好消息不断出现。自《合理医疗费用法案》获得颁布，整体医疗费用的上涨趋势明显减缓，很多专家认为这至少部分归功于该法案的出台。而且现在我们很清楚地知道，一旦法案完全生效，保险费会降到何种地步；凯泽家族基金会(Kaiser Family Foundation)开展的一项全面调查发现，该法案通过后，平均保险费将会大大低于国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)此前的预计。
But do Republican politicians know any of this? Not if they’re listening to conservative “experts,” who have been offering a steady stream of misinformation. All those claims about sticker , for example, come from obviously misleading comparisons. For example, supposed experts compare average insurance rates under the new system, which will cover everyone, with the rates currently paid by a handful of young, healthy people for bare-bones insurance. And they conveniently ignore the subsidies many Americans will receive.
但是，共和党政治家知道这其中任一点吗？如果他们听信那些一直在源源不断提供错误信息的保守派“专家”，他们就不了解这些。比如，那些关于天价医疗费的论断就明显来自具有误导性的比较。例如，所谓的专家将覆盖所有人的新医保体系下的平均保险费用和目前一些健康年轻人为最基本的医保所支付的费用进行比较。而且他们选择性地对很多美国人得到的补贴视而不见。
At the same time, in an echo of the Romney camp’s polling fantasies, other conservative “experts” are creating false impressions about public opinion. Just after Kaiser released a poll showing a strong majority — 57 percent — opposed to the idea of defunding health reform, the Heritage Foundation put out a poster claiming that 57 percent of Americans want reform defunded. Did the experts at Heritage simply read the numbers upside down? No, they claimed, they were referring to some other poll. Whatever really happened, the practical effect was to delude the right-wing faithful.
与此同时，与罗姆尼阵营沉溺于民调幻想相呼应的是，还有一些保守派“专家”在民意上制造假象。凯泽基金会甫一发布一项民调结果，即大多数人（57%）反对不给医改拨款的建议，传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)就打出一张海报，宣称57%的美国人不希望给医改拨款。传统基金会的专家把数据看反了吗？也不是，他们宣称，自己说的是另外一项民调。无论真相如何，实际效果是右翼信众遭到蒙蔽。
And the point is that episodes like this have become the rule, not the exception, on the right. How many Republicans know, for example, that government employment has declined, not risen, under President Obama? Certainly Senator Rand Paul was incredulous when I pointed this out to him on TV last fall. On the contrary, he insisted, “the size of growth of government is enormous under President Obama” — which was completely untrue but was presumably what his sources had told him, knowing that it was what he wanted to hear.
问题在于，这种事情已成为右翼的常态，而非例外。比方说，有多少共和党人知道，在奥巴马总任职期间，政府雇员人数下降了，而不是上升了？去年秋天，我在电视节目中向兰德·保罗参议员(Rand Paul)指出这一点的时候，他绝对是一副难以置信的样子，反而一口咬定，“奥巴马总统治下，政府规模膨胀的程度极其庞大”。真是一派胡言，但可以想见，给他提供消息的人就是这么说的，因为他们知道，他爱听什么话。
For that, surely, is what the wonk gap is all about. Political conservatism and serious policy analysis can coexist, and there was a time when they did. Back in the 1980s, after all, health experts at Heritage made a good-faith effort to devise a plan for universal health coverage — and what they came up with was the system now known as Obamacare.
当然了，这就是所谓的专家缺口。政治保守主义与严肃的政策分析可以并存，想当年也的确如此。上世纪80年代的时候，传统基金会的医保专家毕竟还真心诚意地起草了一份全民医保方案，他们拿出的建议成为了如今的“奥巴马医改”。
But that was then. Modern conservatism has become a sort of cult, very much given to conspiracy theorizing when confronted with inconvenient facts. Liberal policies were supposed to cause hyperinflation, so low measured inflation must reflect statistical fraud; the threat of climate change implies the need for public action, so global warming must be a gigantic scientific hoax. Oh, and Mitt Romney would have won if only he had been a real conservative.
不过，此一时彼一时。现今的保守主义已成了某种邪教，遇到不合意的事实时，常常诉诸阴谋论。自由派政策应当造成恶性通胀，所以，测算出低通胀的话，一定是数据作假；气候变化的威胁意味着有必要采取公共行动，因此，全球变暖一定是个巨大的科学骗局。噢，倘若米特·罗姆尼是个货真价实的保守主义者的话，他应该已经是总统了。
It’s all kind of funny, in a way. Unfortunately, however, this runaway cult controls the House, which gives it immense destructive power — the power, for example, to wreak havoc on the economy by refusing to raise the debt ceiling. And it’s disturbing to realize that this power rests in the hands of men who, thanks to the wonk gap, quite literally have no idea what they’re doing.
某种程度上，这全都有点搞笑。然而不幸的是，这种离谱的邪教控制了众议院，并使其具备了巨大的破坏力。例如，他们有能量不提高举债上限，从而对经济造成严重破坏。由于存在专家缺口，这样的权力落到了实在不知道自己在干嘛的那些人手上。意识到这一点，真让人不安。