WASHINGTON — The federal government on Saturday barreled toward its first shutdown in 17 years after House Republicans, choosing a hard line, demanded a one-year delay of President Obama’s health care law and the repeal of a tax to pay for the law before approving any funds to keep the government running.
华盛顿——周六，众议院共和党人选择强硬路线，要求先将奥巴马的医改法延期一年，并废除相关税费，然后才考虑批准任何保证政府运行的经费，由此将联邦政府加速推向17年来的首次停摆。
Republicans emerged from a closed-door meeting Saturday unified and confident that they had the votes to delay the health care law and eliminate a tax on medical devices that partly pays for it. But before the House had even voted, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, declared the House bill dead. Senate Democrats are planning to table the Republican measures when they convene on Monday, leaving it up to the House to pass a stand-alone spending bill free of any measures that undermine the health care law.
周六结束闭门会议后，立场一致的共和党人充满信心，认为他们有足够的票数决定推迟医改法，废除提供医疗法部分资金的医疗设备税。但在众议院投票之前，内华达州参议员、多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)已经宣称，众议院的这项法案不会获得通过。民主党参议员计划在周一召开会议时搁置共和党的举措，由众议院决定是否通过一项不涉及破坏医改法举措的独立支出法案。
The House’s action all but assured that large parts of the government would be shuttered as of 12:01 a.m. on Tuesday. More than 800,000 federal workers deemed nonessential faced furloughs; millions more could be working without paychecks.
众议院的举动几乎使人们确信，政府的大部分部门将从周二12点01分开始停止运行。逾80万名非必要的联邦工作人员将面临休假，还有数百万人可能会在没有薪水的情况下工作。
A separate House Republican bill would also ensure that military personnel continued to be paid in the event of a government shutdown, an acknowledgment that a shutdown was likely. The health law delay and the troop financing bill were set for House passage Saturday.
众议院共和党还提出了另一项法案，该议案将确保军事人员在政府停摆之时继续获得薪水，此举说明，他们认为政府很可能停摆。医改法延期及军队财务法案定于周六交由众议院表决。
“The American people don’t want a government shutdown, and they don’t want Obamacare,” House Republican leaders said in a statement. “We will do our job and send this bill over, and then it’s up to the Senate to pass it and stop a government shutdown.”
“美国人民不希望政府停摆，也不想要奥巴马医改(Obamacare)”参议院共和党领袖在一份声明中说。“我们将履行我们的职责，提交该法案，然后由参议院决定是否通过该法案，阻止政府停摆。”
Representative Darrell Issa, a powerful Republican committee chairman who is close to the leadership but has sided with those who want to gut the health care law, flashed anger when asked what would happen when the Senate rejected the House’s offer.
众议员达雷尔·伊萨(Darrell Issa)是共和党一个强大委员会的主席，与领导层关系密切，但却支持那些希望破坏医改法的人。在被问到如果参议院拒绝众议院法案会出现什么情况时，伊萨非常气愤。
“How dare you presume a failure?” he snapped. “We continue to believe there’s an opportunity for sensible compromise, and I will not accept from anybody the assumption of failure.”
“你怎么敢假定我们会失败呢？”他厉声说道，“我仍然相信，我们有机会达成明智的妥协，我不会接受任何人的失败假设。”
But Mr. Reid made it clear that failure was inevitable. “After weeks of futile political games from Republicans, we are still at Square 1,” he said. “We continue to be willing to debate these issues in a calm and rational atmosphere. But the American people will not be extorted by Tea Party anarchists.”
但里德明确表示，失败是不可避免的。“共和党人进行了几周徒劳无益的政治游戏，我们仍然毫无进展，”他说，“我们仍然愿意在冷静及理智的氛围下就这些问题进行辩论。但美国人民不会接受茶党(Tea Party)无政府主义者的敲诈。”
The White House was just as blunt. “Any member of the Republican Party who votes for this bill is voting for a shutdown,” the press secretary, Jay Carney, said in a written statement. The White House also said that the president would veto the House bill if approved by the Senate.
白宫的语气也非常直接。新闻秘书杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)在一份书面声明中表示，“任何投票支持该法案的共和党成员都是在投票支持政府停摆。”白宫还表示，如果参议院通过该法案，总统将对其予以否决。
In fact, many House Republicans acknowledged that they expected the Senate to reject the House’s provisions, making a shutdown all but assured. House Republicans were warned repeatedly that Senate Democrats would not accept any changes to the health care law.
其实，很多众议院共和党人都承认，他们已经料到参议院会拒绝众议院的条件，所以政府关门几乎在所难免。参议院民主党人曾反复警告众议院共和党人，他们绝不会同意对医保法案做任何修改。
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio faced a critical decision this weekend: Accept a bill passed by the Senate on Friday to keep the government financed and the health care law intact and risk a conservative revolt that could threaten his speakership, or make one more effort to undermine the president’s signature domestic initiative and hope that a shutdown would not do serious political harm to his party.
本周末，众议院议长、俄亥俄州众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)面临着一个关键决定：要么接受参议院周五通过的法案，继续给政府提供资金，任由医保法维持原状，冒着遭遇保守派反抗、危及自己议长职位的风险；要么再次尝试损害总统的标志性国内政策，并期待政府关门一事不会给他的政党造成严重政治影响。
With no guarantee that Democrats would help him, he chose the shutdown option.
在无法保证获得民主党帮助的情况下，他选择了让政府关门。
“The federal government has shut down 17 times before, sometimes when the Democrats were in control, sometimes with divided government,” said Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina. “What are we doing on our side of the aisle? We’re fighting for the American people.”
“联邦政府此前曾关门17次，有时发生在民主党掌控局面的时候，有时发生在政府存在分歧的时候，”北卡罗莱纳州共和党众议员维尔吉尼娅·福克斯(Virginia Foxx)说，“我们的政党在做什么？我们是在为美国人民奋战。”
Veteran House Republicans say there is still one plausible way to avoid a shutdown. The Senate could take up the House spending bill, strip out the one-year health care delay and accept the medical device tax repeal as a face-saving victory for Republicans. The tax, worth $30 billion over 10 years, has ardent opponents among Democrats as well. Its repeal would not prevent the law from going into effect. Consumers can begin signing up for insurance plans under the law beginning on Tuesday.
一些资深众议院共和党人说，还有一种方式或许能避免政府关门。参议院可以拿起众议院的支出法案，删去将医疗改革推迟一年的做法，同时保留取消医疗设备税的做法，以便给共和党留下颜面。这项税收10年当中的总价值为300亿美元（约合1836亿元人民币），民主党当中也有人对它表示强烈反对。这项税收的取消将不会阻止医保法律生效。从周二开始，用户就可以根据这项法律登记加入保险计划了。
Mr. Reid has already said he would not accept even that measure as a condition to keep the government operating. Even if he did, a single senator could slow action well past the Sept. 30 shutdown deadline, and Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, has said he would accept nothing short of a one-year delay.
里德已经表示，即便这项举措是保持政府运转的前提，他也还是无法接受。即便他接受了，只要有一名参议员反对，整个行动就会被推迟到9月30日政府关门的最后期限之后。与此同时，德州共和党参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)说，除了将医疗改革推迟一年之外，他不会接受任何条件。
“By pandering to the Tea Party minority and trying to delay the benefits of health care reform for millions of seniors and families, House Republicans are now actively pushing for a completely unnecessary government shutdown,” said Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Democrat who leads the Senate Budget Committee.
华盛顿州民主党参议员、参议院预算委员会(Senate Budget Committee)主席帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)说，“为了迎合茶党(Tea Party)少数派，推迟数百万老人和家庭享受医改福利的日期，众议院共和党人正在积极促成政府关门，尽管这完全没有必要。”
The mood in the Capitol on Saturday, at least among Republicans, was downright giddy. When Republican leaders presented their plan in a closed-door meeting on Saturday, cheers and chants of “Vote, vote, vote!” went up. As members left the meeting, many wore beaming grins.
周六，国会的气氛十分热烈，至少在共和党人当中是这样。当共和党领导人在周六的闭门会议中展示他们的计划时，里面传来了“投票、投票、投票！”的阵阵欢呼。他们结束会议离开时，很多人都面带笑容。
After the shutdowns of 1995 and 1996, Republicans were roundly blamed. Their approval ratings plunged, and President Bill Clinton sailed to re-election. This time they say they have a strategy that will shield them from political fallout, especially with the bill to keep money flowing to members of the military.
1995年和1996年，政府关门之后，共和党人遭到了严厉批评。他们的支持率急速下跌，总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)一帆风顺地再度当选。这一次，他们表示自己有一项策略，可以让自己避免负面的政治影响，更何况，他们还握有让金钱继续流进军队成员口袋的法案。
“If Harry Reid and the Senate Democrats would stop being so stubborn then no, of course the government won’t get shut down,” said Representative Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas.
阿肯色州共和党众议员汤姆·戈登(Tom Cotton)说，“如果哈里·里德和参议院民主党人不再这么顽固，政府当然不会关门。”