There is one group of people with an even greater interest than Democrats in President Obama prevailing over Tea Party Republicans in this shutdown showdown, and that is mainstream Republicans.
有一帮人甚至比民主党人更应关心奥巴马总统能否在这次政府关门对决中战胜茶党(Tea Party)共和党人。他们就是主流共和党人。
What exactly are supposedly mainstream conservatives — starting with House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell — thinking? If the “Ted Cruz Wing” of the G.O.P. prevails and forces the president to curtail Obamacare in any way in return for funding the government, mainstream conservatives will be staring at a terrible future. In the near term, they’ll be taking orders from Senator Ted Cruz, who would be crowned kingmaker of the G.O.P. if he got Obama to give in one iota on Obamacare. Cruz and his Tea Party allies would be calling the shots, and Boehner would become that very rare bird — a SPINO (a Speaker in Name Only).
以众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)和参议院少数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)为代表的所谓主流保守派到底在想些什么？如果共和党的“泰德·克鲁兹派”占得上风，迫使总统让奥巴马医改缩水半分以换取政府预算的话，主流保守派的日子将极为难过。短期来看，他们将不得不听命于参议员泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)。假使他能让奥巴马在医改上作出丝毫让步，就会在共和党内呼风唤雨。克鲁兹及其茶党盟友到时候就能发号施令，而博纳将罕见地沦为有名无实的众议院议长。
In the long run, because this fringe would be dictating the party line, Republicans would stand zero chance of winning the White House in 2016. If the country rejected Mitt Romney’s bad imitation of a far-right conservative — one hostile to immigration reform, health care, gay marriage and a grand bargain — imagine how the real thing would fare.
从长远来看，由于共和党的路线将由这股边缘势力把持，他们赢得2016年大选的机会为零。既然国民对米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)摆出的极右保守主义的拙劣姿态——敌视移民政策改革、医保、同性婚姻和“大妥协”——都不买账，试想货真价实的极右又能表现如何？
Finally, given the way the Republicans have managed to gerrymander so many Congressional districts in their favor, they can easily retain control of the House under any normal economic conditions. But if they trigger a U.S. government default, a disruption in Social Security payments and economic turmoil in their effort to scuttle Obamacare — and a majority of voters blame Republicans — that could overwhelm the G.O.P.’s gerrymandered House advantage.
况且，鉴于共和党人成功地朝着利己的方向改划了如此众多的国会选区，只要经济状况正常，他们就应轻而易举地保持对众议院的控制。但是，如果他们在试图搅黄奥巴马医改的过程中引发美国政府违约、社会安全福利金支付中断，以及经济动荡，而且大多数选民都将其归咎于共和党的话，那么他们通过重划选区在众议院获得的优势将会荡然无存。
In other words, the only thing standing between mainstream Republicans and a hellish future of kowtowing to Ted Cruz, never seeing the inside of the White House and possibly losing the House is President Obama’s refusal to give in to the shutdown blackmail that Cruz & Co. have cooked up. The more pragmatic Republicans, who know that this is a disaster for their party but won’t confront Cruz & Co., have settled on this bogus line: “Well, sure, maybe Cruz and the Tea Party went too far, but it’s still President Obama’s fault. He’s president. He should negotiate with them. He needs to lead.”
换句话说，能够防止主流共和党人陷入对泰德·克鲁兹卑躬屈膝、永远没机会入主白宫，以及可能失去众议院控制权之厄运的唯一砝码就是，奥巴马总统拒绝屈服于克鲁兹一伙(Cruz & Co.)一手炮制的政府关门讹诈。对于更加务实的共和党人来说，他们知道这对本党而言是一场灾难，却又不愿意与克鲁兹一伙正面对抗，于是假惺惺地说道：“哦，是的，克鲁兹和茶党可能是太过分了，但错还是在奥巴马总统身上。他是总统，他应该和这些人谈判，他得拿出领袖风范来。”
President Obama is leading. He is protecting the very rules that are the foundation of any healthy democracy. He is leading by not giving in to this blackmail, because if he did he would undermine the principle of majority rule that is the bedrock of our democracy. That system guarantees the minority the right to be heard and to run for office and become the majority, but it also ensures that once voters have spoken, and their representatives have voted — and, if legally challenged, the Supreme Court has also ruled in their favor — the majority decision holds sway. A minority of a minority, which has lost every democratic means to secure its agenda, has no right to now threaten to tank our economy if its demands are not met. If we do not preserve this system, nothing will ever be settled again in American politics. There would be nothing to prevent a future Democratic Congress from using the exact same blackmail to try to overturn a law enacted by their Republican rivals.
但奥巴马总统其实一直在发挥领袖作用。他在捍卫原则，而这些原则是任何健全的民主制度的根基。他拒绝屈服于讹诈本身就展现出了领袖风范，因为让步会损害少数服从多数原则，而这一原则正是我们民主制度之根本。这种制度保障少数人发表意见、参加竞选并发展成为多数的权利；同时也确保一旦选民发表了意见、代表他们的议员进行了表决，并且受到法律挑战时最高法院做出了有利判决的话，那么多数的决定就应该被遵守。那些少数中的少数，既然已经穷尽了每一种民主手段也无法推行其议程，现在便无权威胁，如果要求得不到满足就摧毁我们的经济。倘若我们不捍卫这种制度，美国政界将永远无法解决任何问题。以后也将没有什么可以阻止，由民主党控制的国会使用相同的讹诈手段，来试图推翻由其对手共和党通过的法律。
The president has said that he would give the G.O.P. an agenda for negotiations that could start when the government is funded and the debt ceiling lifted. He’s ready to consider trading the medical-device tax in Obamacare for another equivalent source of revenue or having a talk about closing tax loopholes and reforming entitlements — to both lower the deficit and raise revenue to invest in infrastructure or early childhood education. What Obama will not do, and must not do, is pay an entry fee to that negotiation — say giving up the medical-device tax — just to help Boehner down from the tree. Cruz & Co. would claim victory.
奥巴马总统已表示，他会向共和党提交一份谈判议程，并且将在政府预算通过且举债上限提高时启动谈判。他愿意考虑用医改方案中的医疗器械税换取等值的收入源，他也愿意考虑讨论填补税收漏洞和改革福利制度，以同时降低赤字并增加收入来投资基础设施或儿童早期教育。但奥巴马不会也不能做的是，为了进行谈判而支付入场费，比如直接放弃医疗器械税，结果只会帮博纳解困。那样的话，获胜的就是克鲁兹一伙了。
The reason so many mainstream Republican lawmakers want Obama to give something to Cruz & Co. is that they want to get out of this mess, but they’re all afraid to stand up to the far-right fringe themselves — with its bullying network of barking talk-show hosts and moneymen. But Obama shouldn’t take them off the hook. Only Republicans can delegitimize the nihilistic madness at the base of their party. (I wouldn’t exaggerate this, but I think Boehner underestimates how many mainstream Republicans feel their party is being stolen from them by radicals — and hunger for a leader who will take them on.)
如此众多的主流共和党议员想让奥巴马给克鲁兹一伙一点好处的原因是，他们想尽快摆脱这个烂摊子，但是自己又都不敢站出来与极右的边缘势力对抗，因为这股势力的背后站着不少口沫横飞的脱口秀主持人和金主。但是奥巴马应袖手旁观。只有共和党人自己能够清除他们党派中根深蒂固的近乎疯狂的虚无主义。（我不想夸大其词，但是我认为博纳低估了有多少主流共和党人感觉到自己的党派正被激进分子窃走，以及他们多么渴望有一位领导人能够与这些激进分子抗争。）
For their party’s sake and the country’s sake, Republicans need to go through the same kind of civil war and fundamental rethinking that the British Labour Party went through — after successive defeats by Margaret Thatcher — to produce “New Labour” and that Democrats went through — after successive defeats by Ronald Reagan — to produce “Clinton Democrats.”
为了其党派与国家的利益，共和党人需要经历一番英国工党(Labour Party)和美国民主党在屡次败北后所经历过的内部斗争与彻底反思。英国工党在被玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)屡次击败后终于建立了“新工党”，而民主党人在屡次败于罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)之手后经过同样的过程铸就了“克林顿民主党”。
Yes, it will cost them today, but it will enable them to thrive in the future. America needs a proper right-of-center conservative party to challenge a left-of-center Democratic Party. Without a healthy opposition party — one that is ready to win some and lose some and learn from its losses, one that has a real agenda for upward mobility, not just a low-tax obsession and boiling anger — our two-party system doesn’t work, and neither does the country.
不错，这会让他们今天付出代价，但可以给他们带来更好的明天。美国需要一个真正的中间偏右的保守党派来抗衡一个中间偏左的民主党。如果没有一个健康的反对党，我国的两党制乃至整个国家都将无法运转。这个反对党应该接受，自己有时会成功，有时会失败，而且能从失败中汲取教训，拥有切实的计划鼓励社会阶层向上流动，而不只是执迷于低税收政策和空怀满腔愤怒。