Now that the Congressional Budget Office has explicitly denied saying that Obamacare destroys jobs, some (though by no means all) Republicans have stopped lying about that issue and turned to a different argument. O.K., they concede, any reduction in working hours because of health reform will be a voluntary choice by the workers themselves — but it’s still a bad thing because, as Representative Paul Ryan puts it, they’ll lose “the dignity of work.”
随着国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)明确否认说奥巴马医改在破坏就业，一部分（虽然肯定不是全部）共和党人已经不再在这个问题上撒谎了，开始转向另一个争论。他们承认，好吧，任何因医疗改革导致的工作时数减少，都是工人自己的自愿选择——但正如保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)议员所说，这依然是件坏事，因为他们会失去“工作的尊严”。
So let’s talk about what that means in 21st-century America.
咱们来说说这话在21世纪美国是什么意思。
It’s all very well to talk in the abstract about the dignity of work, but to suggest that workers can have equal dignity despite huge inequality in pay is just silly. In 2012, the top 40 hedge fund managers and traders were paid a combined $16.7 billion, equivalent to the wages of 400,000 ordinary workers. Given that kind of disparity, can anyone really believe in the equal dignity of work?
抽象地去谈工作的尊严是没有问题的，但是在薪水如此不平等的情况下，谈平等的尊严根本是犯傻。2012年，最顶尖的40位对冲基金经理和交易员共得到167亿美元（约合人民币1012亿元）的薪酬，相当于40万名普通工人的收入。如此悬殊的差距，真的有人相信工作有平等的尊严吗？
In fact, the people who seem least inclined to respect the efforts of ordinary workers are the winners of the wealth lottery. Over the past few months, we’ve been harangued by a procession of angry billionaires, furious that they’re not receiving the deference, the acknowledgment of their superiority, that they believe is their due. For example, last week the investor Sam Zell went on CNN Money to defend the 1 percent against “envy,” and he asserted that “the 1 percent work harder. The 1 percent are much bigger factors in all forms of our society.” Dignity for all!
事实上，最不乐意去尊重普通工人的努力的，恰恰是那些中了财富大奖的人。过去几个月里，我们被许多愤怒的亿万富豪轮番教训了一通，他们生气的是自己的优越地位没有得到捍卫和承认，他们认为那是他们应得的。比如上周在CNN财经(CNN Money)上，投资家萨姆·泽尔(Sam Zell)捍卫了受到“嫉妒”的“百分之一”，并断言“百分之一更努力。百分之一在我们这个社会的方方面面都起到了更大的作用。”人人有尊严！
And there’s another group that doesn’t respect workers: Republican politicians. In 2012, Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, infamously marked Labor Day with a Twitter post celebrating ... people who start their own businesses. Perhaps Mr. Cantor was chastened by the backlash to that post; at a recent G.O.P. retreat, he reportedly urged his colleagues to show some respect for Americans who don’t own businesses, who work for someone else. The clear implication was that they haven’t shown that kind of respect in the past.
还有一个不尊重工人的群体：共和党政客。2012年，众议院多数派领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)议员为庆祝劳动节，发了一条臭名昭著的Twitter，祝贺……那些自己创业的人。大概那一条引起的强烈反对让他有些愧疚；在不久前共和党的会议上，坎托先生据称曾向同僚发出呼吁，要他们尊重一下没有自己生意的美国打工人士。显然，这里面暗示他们以前没有给予这样的尊重。
On the whole, working Americans are better at appreciating their own worth than either the wealthy or conservative politicians are at showing them even minimal respect. Still, tens of millions of Americans know from experience that hard work isn’t enough to provide financial security or a decent education for their children, and many either couldn’t get health insurance or were desperately afraid of losing jobs that came with insurance until the Affordable Care Act kicked in last month. In the face of that kind of everyday struggle, talk about the dignity of work rings hollow.
总的来说，美国劳动者对自身价值的体认，要强于富人或保守派政客给予他们的哪怕最微乎其微的一点尊重。然而，还是有成千上万的美国人从自身经历认识到，勤奋的工作不足以带来财务上的安全感，或给孩子提供像样的教育。在上月《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)实施以前，很多人要么无法得到医疗保险，要么无比害怕失去带有保险的工作。在这种日复一日的挣扎里谈工作的尊严是很虚妄的。
So what would give working Americans more dignity in their lives, despite huge income disparities? How about assuring them that the essentials — health care, opportunity for their children, a minimal income — will be there even if their boss fires them or their jobs are shipped overseas?
那么，怎样才能给美国劳动者的生活带去更多尊严，而不是巨大的收入差距呢？不如向他们保证：医疗、向其子女开放的机遇、最低工资这些不可或缺的东西不会消失，哪怕他们被老板炒了鱿鱼，或是工作岗位流向了海外。
Think about it: Has anything done as much to enhance the dignity of American seniors, to rescue them from the penury and dependence that were once so common among the elderly, as Social Security and Medicare? Inside the Beltway, fiscal scolds have turned “entitlements” into a bad word, but it’s precisely the fact that Americans are entitled to collect Social Security and be covered by Medicare, no questions asked, that makes these programs so empowering and liberating.
试想：说起提升美国老年人的尊严，将他们从相当普遍的贫困和依赖之中拯救出来，还有什么措施比社会安全福利和联邦医疗保险的效果更好？华盛顿的财政批评者已经把“福利”变成了个坏词，但这些项目之所以拥有如此强大的赋权能量和解放力，正是因为它们让美国人可以得到社会安全福利，并能无条件地置身于联邦医保覆盖范围内。
Conversely, the drive by conservatives to dismantle much of the social safety net, to replace it with minimal programs and private charity, is, in effect, an effort to strip away the dignity of lower-income workers.
与此相反，保守派企图废除相当一部分的社会安全网，代之以最低限度的项目和私人慈善，这实际上就是要剥夺低收入工人的尊严。
And it’s something else: an assault on their freedom.
不仅如此：这还是在打击他们的自由。
Modern American conservatives talk a lot about freedom, and deride liberals for advocating a “nanny state.” But when it comes to Americans down on their luck, conservatives become insultingly paternalistic, as comfortable congressmen lecture struggling families on the dignity of work. And they also become advocates of highly intrusive government. For example, House Republicans tried to introduce a provision into the farm bill that would have allowed states to mandate drug testing for food stamp recipients. (A commenter on my blog suggested mandatory drug tests for employees of too-big-to-fail financial institutions, which receive large implicit subsidies. Now that would really cause a panic.)
当今的美国保守派热衷于谈自由，讥笑自由派在鼓吹的是“保姆政府”。可一旦说到时运不济的美国人，保守派就摆出一副言语刻薄的家长作风，衣食无忧的国会议员跟处境艰难的家庭讲起工作尊严的大道理。此外他们也开始鼓吹强调干预的政府。比如众议院共和党人企图往农业法案里加入一个条款，允许各州对食品券领取者强制实施毒品检验。（我的博客上有一位评论者提出建议，应该对那些“大到不能倒”的金融机构雇员进行强制毒品检验，这些机构得到了巨额暗补。这一招肯定会让他们惊慌失措。）
The truth is that if you really care about the dignity and freedom of American workers, you should favor more, not fewer, entitlements, a stronger, not weaker, social safety net.
事实上，如果你真的在乎美国工人的尊严和自由，你应该支持增加福利，而不是减少，支持一个更强大的社会安全网，而不是去削弱它。
And you should, in particular, support and celebrate health reform. Never mind all those claims that Obamacare is slavery; the reality is that the Affordable Care Act will empower millions of Americans, giving them exactly the kind of dignity and freedom politicians only pretend to love.
你尤其应该支持和赞美医保改革。不要理会那些宣称奥巴马医保是奴隶制的人；现实是《合理医疗费用法案》能给数百万美国人带去力量，让他们真正得到政客们假装在热爱的那种尊严和自由。