The latest New York Times-CBS News poll makes Republican Party divisions clear, from their choice of presidential nominee to whether they are willing to see their leaders compromise on legislation.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻(CBS News)最新的民意调查突显了共和党内部的分歧，涉及的问题从总统候选人的提名人选，到是否愿意看到党内领袖在立法问题上做出妥协。
For the first time since The Times and CBS News began testing candidate preferences in July, the retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson has displaced Donald J. Trump as the leader of the large Republican field, although the difference is well within the poll's margin of sampling error. The churn in the field suggests more volatility as the contest draws closer to the primaries early next year.
自今年7月，时报和CBS新闻开始就候选人偏好进行民调以来，退休神经外科医生本·卡森(Ben Carson)首次取代唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，在广大共和党选民的意见中处于领先地位，不过两人支持率上的差距完全在民调的抽样误差范围内。这一转变显示出，随着明年年初的党内初选日益接近，选情将愈发多变。
Carson and Trump draw support from different segments of the Republican electorate, with Carson winning the allegiance of evangelicals and self-described conservatives. Trump does better among Republican primary voters with who do not have a college education and with those who are not evangelical.
卡森和特朗普得到了共和党内部不同选民阵营的支持。其中，卡森赢得了福音派和自称保守派的人群的拥护，而在没有接受过大学教育的初选选民和非福音派选民中，特朗普则更受欢迎。
Republican voters appear remarkably aware of their own challenges: Three-quarters of those surveyed called their own party divided and 7 in 10 acknowledged that Republicans were at least partly to blame for dysfunction and gridlock in Washington.
共和党选民似乎非常清楚自己面临的挑战：四分之三的受访者称，自己所属的政党存在分化，十分之七的人承认共和党对于华盛顿无法正常运转、陷入僵局，至少负有部分责任。
The intraparty differences could be difficult to bridge. A majority of Republican voters said their leaders should be willing to offer concessions to get things done in Washington, but about 4 in 10 said that Republican officials should stick to their principles even if it meant more legislative paralysis.
党内分歧可能难以弥合。大部分共和党选民表示，党内领袖应该愿意作出让步，好让华盛顿的事务能正常运转，但十分之四的人表示，共和党官员应该坚守原则，哪怕这意味着会有更多立法事宜陷入瘫痪。
And the party's appetite for compromise is only waning: While 56 percent of Republican voters surveyed said congressional Republicans should compromise, that is a decline of 12 percentage points from when Republicans were asked the same question in July 2013.
不过共和党的妥协意愿也在减弱。受访的共和党选民中有56%的人表示，共和党国会议员应该妥协。与2013年7月，共和党人被问及同样的问题时相比，这个比例下降了12个百分点。
The party is unambiguously united, however, in one respect: They share a deep dissatisfaction with Washington. Only 10 percent of those surveyed said they were enthusiastic or satisfied with what is happening in the capital, while 37 percent described themselves as angry and 52 percent as dissatisfied.
然而，共和党在一个问题上意见统一，毫不含糊：对华盛顿深感不满。只有10%的受访者表示，对首都的局面感到喜悦或满意，而37%的人自称愤怒，52%的人称并不满意。
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Oct. 21-25 on cellphones and landlines with 575 Republican primary voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 6 percentage points for each candidate.
此次电话调查是在10月21日到25日期间进行的。调查人员通过手机和座机，对全国范围内的575名共和党初选选民进行了访问。每位候选人的抽样误差范围是正负六个百分点。