WASHINGTON — With the United States and Iran about to embark on a critical phase of nuclear talks, President Obama is waging an intense rearguard action to prevent Senate Democrats from supporting strict new sanctions that could upend his diplomatic efforts.
华盛顿——眼下美国和伊朗即将迈入核谈判的一个关键阶段，奥巴马总统正在发起一场激烈的行动以巩固后方，他要阻止参议院共和党人支持新一轮的严厉制裁，以免外交努力毁于一旦。
Sponsors of the bill, which would aim to drive Iran’s oil exports down to zero, have secured the backing of 59 senators, putting them within striking distance of a two-thirds majority that could override Mr. Obama’s threatened veto. Republicans overwhelmingly support the bill. So far 16 Democrats have broken with the president, and the bill’s sponsors hope to get more.
这项提案旨在彻底封锁伊朗的石油出口，其发起人已经得到了59位参议员的支持，这样一来，三分之二的多数票就已经进入射程范围内了，一旦达成，奥巴马所威胁使用的否决权就能够被推翻。迄今已经有16位民主党人和总统背道而驰，提案的发起人希望再争取一些。
The struggle is casting a long shadow over the talks, which administration officials say will be even harder than those that resulted in the six-month interim agreement, signed Sunday, that will temporarily freeze Iran’s nuclear program in return for limited sanctions relief. Iranian officials have threatened to leave the bargaining table if the United States enacts any new sanctions during the negotiations.
这场争斗给谈判蒙上了一层阴影，而奥巴马政府的官员称，相比之前为了达成一项为期六个月的临时协议而进行的谈判，这次的谈判还要更艰巨。上周日签署的临时协议只是暂时冻结了伊朗的核项目，换取了制裁的有限缓解。伊朗官员威胁说，一旦美国在谈判期间实施新一轮的制裁，他们就离开谈判桌。
The White House has cast the issue in stark terms, saying that a vote for new sanctions would be, in effect, a “march toward war” and challenging those lawmakers who support the bill to acknowledge publicly that they favor military action against Iran.
白宫在谈起这个问题时措辞极为严厉，称投票通过新一轮制裁无异于“向战争进发”，并对那些支持提案的议员发起质疑，要求他们向公众阐明，自己支持对伊朗采取军事行动。
“It just stands to reason if you close the diplomatic option, you’re left with a difficult choice of waiting to see if sanctions cause Iran to capitulate, which we don’t think will happen, or considering military action,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser.
副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说，“这是明摆着的，如果你放弃外交途径，就得面临一个艰难的选择，要么看看制裁能否促使伊朗投降，当然我们认为这不太可能，要么就考虑军事行动。”
Yet senators from both parties angrily reject that characterization, saying that congressional pressure to impose sanctions is what brought Iran to the negotiating table to begin with. If anything, they said, the West needs the specter of more sanctions as a “diplomatic insurance policy,” in case Iran reneges on the interim deal or the talks ultimately fail.
然而有来自两党的参议员愤怒地驳斥了这种描述方式，说伊朗当初愿意进行谈判，本身就是国会施加制裁的结果。他们说，西方需要用更多的制裁来作为一种“外交保险政策”才对，以备伊朗违反临时协议，或者谈判最终破裂。
Behind these positions is a potent mix of political calculations in a midterm election year. Pro-Israel groups like the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, have lobbied Congress to ratchet up the pressure on Iran, and many lawmakers are convinced that Tehran is bluffing in its threat to walk away from the talks.
这些态度的背后，是中期选举年里各种政治盘算的强力融合。以色列公共事务委员会(American Israel Public Affairs Committee)这样的亲以团体在游说国会增加对伊朗的压力，许多议员现在已经相信，德黑兰威胁要退出谈判是虚张声势。
The signing of the interim agreement, congressional aides said, could cut both ways. While some senators might be more inclined to give diplomacy a chance, others might be troubled by the terms of the six-month deal. The full text of the agreement has not yet been released, arousing the suspicions of critics, though the White House said on Monday that it would soon be made available to lawmakers.
有国会助手称，临时协议的签署是一把双刃剑。有的参议员可能倾向于给外交一个机会，还有一些则对这个半年协议的条款心存忧虑。协议的全文至今仍未公布，这引来了批评人士的怀疑。不过白宫在周一称，议员很快就能拿到这份协议。
Mr. Obama and other senior officials have met repeatedly with lawmakers to defend their diplomatic efforts and to try to stop the rush to sanctions. They cite an intelligence assessment that sanctions could undermine the negotiations. And they argue that Congress can always act swiftly to impose sanctions if the talks do collapse.
奥巴马及一些高级官员不断在和议员们会面，为他们的外交行动作辩护，试图止住这股制裁的冲动。他们援引情报评估报告称，制裁是会破坏谈判的。他们还提出，一旦谈判破裂，国会总是可以迅速发起制裁。
“My preference is for peace and diplomacy, and this is one of the reasons why I’ve sent the message to Congress that now is not the time for us to impose new sanctions,” Mr. Obama said to reporters on Monday after meeting with Spain’s prime minister, Mariano Rajoy. “Now is the time for us to allow the diplomats and technical experts to do their work.”
“和平和外交是我优先考虑的，这就是为什么我要向国会发出这个讯息，现在不是施加新一轮制裁的好时机，”奥巴马在周一和西班牙总理马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)会面后对记者说。“现在我们应该让外交官和技术专家去做他们分内的事。”
Much will depend on the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, who has so far resisted pressure to allow a vote on a sanctions bill. Mr. Reid is balancing a record of robust support for Israel with an equally strong alliance with the White House. Aides say Mr. Reid will not bring a bill to the floor before the State of the Union address on Jan. 28.
参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)将起到举足轻重的作用，目前他顶住了压力，没有同意就制裁提案进行投票。一方面要继续自己一直以来对以色列的强势支持，一方面又要维持和白宫同样坚固的联盟，里德要在两者之间保持平衡。助手们称，在1月28日发表国情咨文之前，里德不会允许参议院就任何提案进行表决。
Democrats, they say, recognize the delicacy of Mr. Obama’s signing the first veto of his presidency on an Iran bill, and to have that first veto overridden would be a historic repudiation. But Democrats said the current lull can hold only for a matter of weeks, not months.
他们说，民主党人是理解奥巴马的微妙处境的，他在一项伊朗提案上首次使用了总统否决权，而如果首次否决就被推翻，那将是一次历史性的打击。然而民主党人认为，目前这样的平静只能维持几周，而不是几个月。
Prominent Democrats like Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, the chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, have recently thrown their support behind the bill. Aides say enough Senate Democrats would support the sanctions bill to override a presidential veto, and the House probably has a veto-proof margin as well.
一些知名的民主党人最近选择支持该提案，比如科罗拉多参议员、民主党参议院竞选委员会(Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee)主席迈克尔·贝内特(Michael Bennet)。助手们说支持制裁的民主党参议员数量足以推翻总统否决权，而众议院可能也有不惧怕否决权的资本。
The fate of the bill, some on Capitol Hill said, is likely to rest with news from Iran. If newspapers begin running front-page articles about a resurgent Iranian economy or news breaks of burgeoning trade between Iran and its allies, Mr. Reid may be pressured to allow a vote. Proponents of sanctions say there is already ample evidence of both.
国会山的一些人说，这项提案的命运可能会被来自伊朗的新闻所左右。如果报纸开始在头版报道伊朗经济出现复苏，或曝出伊朗和盟友之间的贸易规模激增，里德可能会在压力之下同意进行表决。制裁的倡导者称，有充分证据表明这两种现象都已经出现了。
“The Iranian economy has stabilized and is now starting to go on a positive trajectory,” said Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. “This is due in a significant way to changing market sentiment.”
“伊朗的经济已经稳定下来，现在开始呈现一种积极的态势，”保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)总干事马克·杜博维茨(Mark Dubowitz)说。“这在很大程度上是因为市场情绪有所转变。”
Reports of an oil-for-goods swap being negotiated between Iran and Russia have prompted some Democrats to accuse Tehran of violating the terms of the interim deal. The White House said it shared those concerns, noting that Secretary of State John Kerry raised the matter with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, on Monday.
有报道称伊朗和俄罗斯正在商谈一项石油换商品的计划，一些民主党人因此指责德黑兰违反了临时协议的约定。白宫说，它也有类似的担忧，并指出国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在周一向俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)提出了这个问题。
Such a deal would be “inconsistent” with the agreement and “could potentially trigger U.S. sanctions,” said a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin M. Hayden.
国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M. Hayden)说，这样交易和美伊的协议是“不一致的，可能会触发美国的制裁。”