As Mr. Obama prepares to deliver a major economic address Wednesday in Illinois, Republicans in Washington are delivering blow after blow to programs he will promote as vital to a more robust economic recovery and a firmer economic future — from spending on infrastructure and health care to beefing up regulatory agencies. While Mr. Obama would like to keep the economic conversation lofty, his adversaries in Congress are already fighting in the trenches.
奥巴马正准备周三在伊利诺伊州就经济问题发表重要讲话，与此同时，他推动的那些他认为对加强经济复苏、巩固经济前景至关重要的计划——从增加基础设施和医疗保障投入到加强监管机构的力量——却在华盛顿遭到共和党人一轮又一轮的打击。奥巴马希望进行一场高风亮节的经济对话，他在国会的敌人们却已经开始大打出手了。
On Tuesday, a House Appropriations subcommittee formally drafted legislation that would cut the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by 34 percent and eliminate his newly announced greenhouse gas regulations. The bill cuts financing for the national endowments for the arts and the humanities in half and the Fish and Wildlife Service by 27 percent.
众议院拨款委员会(House Appropriations Committee)的一个小组委员会周二正式起草了一份议案，意欲将国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)的预算削减34%，废除奥巴马最近刚颁布的温室气体排放法规。这项提案还要把国家对艺术和人文领域的拨款减少一半，对渔业与野生动物局(Fish and Wildlife Service)的投入减少27%。
For the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, Mr. Obama requested nearly $3 billion for renewable energy and energy efficiency programs — a mainstay of his economic agenda since he was first elected. The House approved $826 million. Senate Democrats want to give $380 million to ARPA-E, an advanced research program for energy. The House allocated $70 million.
针对10月1日开始的下一财年，奥巴马提出了将近30亿美元（约合184亿元人民币）的可再生能源和能效计划——自他首次当选总统时起，这一直是他的经济构想的主体。众议院核准了8.26亿美元。参议院民主党希望向能源高级研究计划署(ARPA-E)拨款3.8亿美元。众议院拨了7000万美元。
A House bill to finance labor and health programs, expected to be unveiled Wednesday, makes good on Republican threats to eliminate the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The labor and health measure — for years the most contentious spending bill — will protect some White House’s priorities, like Head Start, special education and the National Institutes of Health, but to do so education grants for poor students will be cut by 16 percent and the Labor Department by 13 percent, according to House Republican aides.
众议院定于周三公布为劳工和医疗计划提供资金的一项提案，其中将兑现共和党人取缔公共广播公司(Corporation for Public Broadcasting)的威胁。这项有关劳工和医疗的提案多年来一直在各项开支议案中最具争议性，众议院共和党人身边的工作人员表示，这项议案将保护白宫的一些重点项目，比如学前教育计划(Head Start)、特殊教育和国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)，但是会导致针对贫困学生的教育拨款减少16%，向劳工部(Labor Department)的拨款减少13%。
“These are tough bills,” acknowledged Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who leads the House Appropriations Committee. “His priorities are going nowhere.”
“这些都是很难为人的议案，”领导众议院拨款委员会的肯塔基州共和党众议员哈罗德·罗杰斯(Harold Rogers)说。“他的重点项目没什么前途。”
The Democrat-controlled Senate will not go along with the House cuts, but the different approaches will complicate negotiations. With just 24 legislative days remaining before Oct. 1, talks to resolve the disparities have not really begun, lawmakers said, putting Congress and the president on a collision course that could shut down the government after this fiscal year ends Sept. 30.
民主党控制的参议院不会接受众议院的削减方案，路线上的分歧将令双方的谈判复杂化。10月1日前只剩下24个立法日了，但议员们称，化解分歧的对话还没有真正开始，这让国会和总统进入撞击轨道，最终可能导致本财年在9月30日结束时政府陷入停摆状态。
“This is as serious a challenge on fiscal matters as I’ve ever seen,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat and a veteran of more than three decades in Congress.
“这是我遇到过的最严重的一次财政事务困局，”马里兰州众议员斯泰尼·H·霍伊尔(Steny H. Hoyer)说，他是民主党在众议院的二号人物，一名在国会已经待了30多年的资深议员。
In the Senate, Republicans are circulating a letter to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, warning they will not approve any spending measure to keep the government operating after Sept. 30 if it devotes a penny to put in place Mr. Obama’s health care law. Signers so far include the No. 2 and No. 3 Republican senators, John Cornyn of Texas and John Thune of South Dakota, as well as one of the party’s rising stars, Marco Rubio of Florida.
共和党参议员正传看一封写给多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)的信。文中警告，针对任何让政府在9月30日后保持运行的开支议案，只要给落实奥巴马的医保法案拨出一个子儿，他们就绝不会批准。联名签署人中包括共和党参议员中的二号人物、来自德克萨斯州的约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)和三号人物、来自南达科他州的约翰·图恩(John Thune)，以及一名崛起的党内新星、来自佛罗里达州的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)。
The letter, drafted by Senators Mike Lee of Utah, Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky, states: “If Democrats will not agree with Republicans that Obamacare must be repealed, perhaps they can at least agree with the president that the law cannot be implemented as written. If the administration will not enforce the law as written, then the American people should not be forced to fund it.”
这封信由犹他州的迈克·李(Mike Lee)、德克萨斯州的特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和肯塔基州的兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)这三名参议员起草。文中写道：“要是民主党人不赞同共和党人关于必须废除‘奥巴马医改’的主张，或许他们至少可以赞同总统关于此项医改不能照章执行的看法。如果奥巴马政府不打算照章执法，那么美国民众就不应被迫对其出资。”
Taken together, efforts in both chambers amount to some of the most serious cuts to domestic spending since the Republicans in 1995 tried to shutter the departments of Energy, Education and Commerce — and ended up shutting the government down for 28 days. “It’s about time we cut some spending around here,” said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee.
两院的努力加起来，相当于1995年以来最为严重的国内开支削减。当时，共和党人试图让能源部、教育部和商务部关门，最后让整个政府停摆了28天。众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席、来自威斯康星州的保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)说，“是时候在相关领域砍掉一些开支了。”
A senior White House adviser, Dan Pfeiffer, said Republicans were offering no plan “other than indiscriminate cuts as far as the eye can see and repeal Obamacare as often as possible,”
白宫高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)表示，共和党人没有提出任何方案，“只是在目光所及之处不加区分地乱砍一气，以及尽可能频繁地要求废除‘奥巴马医改’。”
“We need them to step away from the brink, stop the gridlock and work with Democrats to make progress,” Mr. Pfeiffer said. “If they don’t, a train wreck is inevitable and the country will suffer.”
“我们需要他们从悬崖边走开、不要制造僵局，要与民主党合作以取得进展。如果他们不这么做，车毁人亡不可避免，倒霉的是整个国家，”法伊弗说。
If the White House can reach the coming fiscal year without economic disruption, the fight will transition immediately to the next showdown: Raising the government’s statutory borrowing authority. The Treasury has been shifting money within government accounts for weeks to keep the government solvent, but by October or early November, such “extraordinary measures” will have been exhausted, Treasury officials have told lawmakers.
即便白宫能够在不引发经济混乱的情况下走到下个财年，相关斗争也将立即转向下一场对决：提高政府的法定借债权限。财政部官员告诉议员们，为了让政府保持偿付能力，财政部已在过去几周在政府账户内部拆东墙补西墙，不过，到10月或11月初，这种“非常措施”将走到山穷水尽的地步。
Mr. Obama has said he will not negotiate terms to raise the debt ceiling, but Congressional Republicans say they will not let the deadline pass without concessions, either on changes to entitlement programs like Medicare or on some statutory timeline to put in place a sweeping overhaul of the tax code next year.
奥巴马已表示，他不会为了提高举债上限而讨价还价，但共和党议员称，他们不会什么让步都没捞到就让最后期限溜走。这种让步要么是改革联邦医疗保险(Medicare)等福利制度，要么是为明年落实税法全面改革设定某种法定日程表。
“We’re not going to raise the debt ceiling without real cuts in spending,” Speaker John A. Boehner said Tuesday. “It’s as simple as that.”
众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(Speaker John A. Boehner)周二称，“如果没有开支的实质性削减，我们不准备提高举债上限。就这么简单。”