CLEVELAND — Day 2 of the Republican National Convention enters prime time, after the delegates formally nominated Donald J. Trump for president. 
克利夫兰——在代表们正式提名唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)竞选总统后，共和党全国代表大会第二天进入黄金时段。
Mr. Trump, the New York real estate mogul and reality TV star, formally took control of the Republican Party on Tuesday as delegates to the convention here officially chose him as their nominee, ending a tumultuous, year-long political crusade.
周二当天，齐聚此地的大会代表确定了提名人选，纽约州房地产大亨、真人秀明星特朗普由此正式掌控共和党，结束了持续一年的这场混乱的政治运动。
The state of New York cast their delegates for Mr. Trump just after 7 p.m. Tuesday evening, giving him the majority of delegates and crushing, once and for all, the panicked efforts of the Never Trump movement inside the Republican Party establishment.
周二傍晚7点刚过，纽约州代表宣布他们的选择是特朗普，这意味着他获得了多数代表票，并彻底击溃了共和党掌权派内部在恐慌中发起的“永不特朗普”运动(Never Trump)。
Mr. Trump dispatched with ease more than a dozen extablishment candidates during one of the unlikliest and non-traditional presidential campaigns in history. And on Tuesday, as he became their standard-bearer, the party’s congressional leaders prepared to fete him in from the convention’s podium later in the evening.
本届总统竞选是史上最令人意想不到、最不符合传统的竞选之一。特朗普轻松打败十多名掌权派候选人。周二当天，随着特朗普成为他们的领导者，共和党的国会领袖准备晚上在大会的讲台上为他举行庆祝。
Mike Pence, the vice presidential nominee, is scheduled to accept the party’s nod in a speech Wednesday evening, and Mr. Trump will do the same on Thursday in a prime-time speech to the nation.
副总统提名人选迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)定于周三傍晚发表演讲，接受共和党的认可。特朗普将于周四采取同样的方式，在黄金时段发表全国讲话。
Trump advisers deny plagiarism by Melania Trump, even as the issue consumes the Republican convention.
尽管梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)的讲稿抄袭问题在大会期间闹得沸沸扬扬，但特朗普的顾问否认存在抄袭。
Donald J. Trump’s top advisers closed ranks around the candidate’s wife Tuesday morning, insisting that there had been no plagiarism and attempting — without much success — to shift the day’s political conversation back to their planned convention message.
周二上午，在有关特朗普的妻子的问题上，唐纳德·J·特朗普的高级顾问态度一致，坚称不存在抄袭，并企图让当天的政治讨论重新回到他们预先安排的大会主旨上，但不是很成功。
Their efforts shifted throughout the course of the day, as aides sought to explain away stark, side-by-side evidence that several passages appeared to be almost identical to passages from Michelle Obama’s 2008 convention speech.
他们在一天里多次改变应对措施，助手们在一一对应的明确证据面前试图做出辩解。这些证据表明讲稿有多个段落看上去和米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的2008年大会演讲几乎一模一样。
As the Times reported this morning, Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, called it “absurd” to think that Ms. Trump had copied anyone’s work, despite stark, side-by-side evidence that several passages appeared to be almost identical to passages from Michelle Obama’s 2008 convention speech.
 正如《时报》今天早上所报道，特朗普的竞选经理保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)认为，有关特朗普夫人抄袭了别人的作品的说法是“荒唐的”。
The response from the campaign this morning appears to have intensified the story, which dominated the cable television shows and was the talk of the convention hall. And some of that talk included former Trump campaign aides, who demanded accountability.
竞选团队今天上午做出的回应似乎让事情愈演愈烈。此事不仅成为有线电视节目上的主要话题，也是大会现场讨论的热点。一些特朗普的前竞选助手也参与了进来，要求追究此事的责任。