John Kasich, the Republican governor of Ohio, has done some surprising things lately. First, he did an end run around his state’s Legislature — controlled by his own party — to proceed with the federally funded expansion of Medicaid that is an important piece of Obamacare. Then, defending his action, he let loose on his political allies, declaring, “I’m concerned about the fact there seems to be a war on the poor. That, if you’re poor, somehow you’re shiftless and lazy.”
最近，共和党人、俄亥俄州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)做了些让人意外的事情。首先，他绕过自己党派控制的州议会，去推动扩大联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)计划的覆盖范围——这项计划由联邦政府出资，是奥巴马医改(Obamacare)的重要组成部分。之后，在为自己的行为辩解的时候，他又对自己的政治同盟毫不留情，声称，“我关心这样一个事实，即有人像是要对穷人开战。他们说，如果你处于贫穷状态，那么你肯定是没志气，又懒惰。”
Obviously Mr. Kasich isn’t the first to make this observation. But the fact that it’s coming from a Republican in good standing (although maybe not anymore), indeed someone who used to be known as a conservative firebrand, is telling. Republican hostility toward the poor and unfortunate has now reached such a fever pitch that the party doesn’t really stand for anything else — and only willfully blind observers can fail to see that reality.
很显然，做出此种结论的人里面，卡西奇算不上头一号。但是这样话从一个声誉良好的（不过可能从此就不一样了）共和党人嘴里说出，确实说明了一些问题，特别是此人之前一直以激烈倡导保守言论著称。共和党对于穷人和不幸者充满敌意，如今几乎到了狂热的地步，以至于他们把别的一切都已经抛诸脑后——关于这一情况，只有那些刻意盲目的观察家才会说看不到。
The big question is why. But, first, let’s talk a bit more about what’s eating the right.
而大问题是他们为什么会这样。不过，我们首先谈谈，究竟是什么蚕食了右翼。
I still sometimes see pundits claiming that the Tea Party movement is basically driven by concerns about budget deficits. That’s delusional. Read the founding rant by Rick Santelli of CNBC: There’s nary a mention of deficits. Instead, it’s a tirade against the possibility that the government might help “losers” avoid foreclosure. Or read transcripts from Rush Limbaugh or other right-wing talk radio hosts. There’s not much about fiscal responsibility, but there’s a lot about how the government is rewarding the lazy and undeserving.
有些时候，我还能看到专家声称，推动茶党(Tea Party)运动的，基本上是对于预算赤字的担忧。这是痴人呓语。你去听听CNBC的里克·圣泰利(Rick Santelli)那奠定基调的咆哮：没有一句有关赤字的话。事实恰恰相反，对于政府可能会帮助“失败者”，逃避房子被收走的命运，这里倒是有很多长篇的激烈抨击。或者，去看一下拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)或者其他右翼电台名嘴的讲稿。他们谈得多的，不是财政责任，而是政府是怎样回报那些懒惰且配不上社会福利的人。
Republicans in leadership positions try to modulate their language a bit, but it’s a matter more of tone than substance. They’re still clearly passionate about making sure that the poor and unlucky get as little help as possible, that — as Representative Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, put it — the safety net is becoming “a hammock that lulls able-bodied people to lives of dependency and complacency.” And Mr. Ryan’s budget proposals involve savage cuts in safety-net programs such as food stamps and Medicaid.
担任领导职务的共和党人会努力改变他们使用的语言，但是这只不过是语气上的调整，而没有实质性的改变。很明显，他们还是千方百计要让穷人和不幸者获得尽可能少的帮助，对此他们充满热情——正如众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席、众议员保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)所说的——国家的社会安全网正在成为“安抚四肢健全者的吊床，让他们安于过上依赖他人的生活”。同时，瑞安的预算提议中提到了大幅减少福利安全保障项目的预算，诸如食品券和联邦医疗补助。
All of this hostility to the poor has culminated in the truly astonishing refusal of many states to participate in the Medicaid expansion. Bear in mind that the federal government would pay for this expansion, and that the money thus spent would benefit hospitals and the local economy as well as the direct recipients. But a majority of Republican-controlled state governments are, it turns out, willing to pay a large economic and fiscal price in order to ensure that aid doesn’t reach the poor.
许多州拒绝扩大联邦医疗补助覆盖的范围，这种令人震惊的行为体现了他们对穷人的敌意已达到了一个高点。请记住，联邦政府将会为这次补助覆盖的扩大出钱，而支出的这些钱除了能帮助接受救助的人，还将惠及医院和本地经济。但是，共和党控制的大多数州政府甚至愿意付出很大的经济和财政代价，想方设法不让穷人获得此项补助。
The thing is, it wasn’t always this way. Go back for a moment to 1936, when Alf Landon received the Republican nomination for president. In many ways, Landon’s acceptance speech previewed themes taken up by modern conservatives. He lamented the incompleteness of economic recovery and the persistence of high unemployment, and he attributed the economy’s lingering weakness to excessive government intervention and the uncertainty he claimed it created.
问题是，事情不总是这样的。不妨回头看一下1936年，当时阿尔夫·兰登(Alf Landon)获得共和党提名，准备竞选总统。从很多方面说，兰登的提名演讲预示了现代保守主义者热衷的一些主题。他对于经济没有完全复苏，以及失业率持续高企怨声载道；对于经济持续疲弱，他认为原因是政府干预过多，也因此造成了许多不确定性，这些不确定性又会影响经济。
But he also said this: “Out of this Depression has come, not only the problem of recovery but also the equally grave problem of caring for the unemployed until recovery is attained. Their relief at all times is a matter of plain duty. We of our Party pledge that this obligation will never be neglected.”
但是他也表明了如下观点：“随着大萧条而来的，不仅仅是如何恢复经济的难题，同样棘手的是，如何在经济恢复之前，照顾好那些失业者。任何时候，缓解他们的压力，都是我们明确的责任。我们全党保证，我们绝不忽略这一责任。”
Can you imagine a modern Republican nominee saying such a thing? Not in a party committed to the view that unemployed workers have it too easy, that they’re so coddled by unemployment insurance and food stamps that they have no incentive to go out there and get a job.
你能想象一位当代的共和党提名人会说出这样的话么？在现在的共和党里，他们总是觉得失业人员生活太安逸，失业保险和食品券等福利项目给予了他们无微不至的呵护，因此，他们没有意愿走出家门，寻找工作；在这样的共和党里，肯定不会有人说这番话。
So what’s this all about? One reason, the sociologist Daniel Little suggested in a recent essay, is market ideology: If the market is always right, then people who end up poor must deserve to be poor. I’d add that some leading Republicans are, in their minds, acting out adolescent libertarian fantasies. “It’s as if we’re living in an Ayn Rand novel right now,” declared Paul Ryan in 2009.
那么，这究竟是怎么一回事？社会学家丹尼尔·利特尔(Daniel Little)在最近的一篇文章中指出，其中一个原因是市场意识形态：如果市场总是对的，那么那些穷困潦倒的人肯定是应该受穷。我还想说的是，在一些共和党领导人的脑子里，他们还在做着青春期自由意志的美梦。保罗·瑞安在2009年就曾经声称，“我们现在似乎是生活在安·兰德(Ayn Rand)的小说里似的。”
But there’s also, as Mr. Little says, the stain that won’t go away: race.
但是按照利特尔的话说，还存在着那个抹不去的污点：种族问题。
In a much-cited recent memo, Democracy Corps, a Democratic-leaning public opinion research organization, reported on the results of focus groups held with members of various Republican factions. They found the Republican base “very conscious of being white in a country that is increasingly minority” — and seeing the social safety net both as something that helps Those People, not people like themselves, and binds the rising nonwhite population to the Democratic Party. And, yes, the Medicaid expansion many states are rejecting would disproportionately have helped poor blacks.
民主团(Democracy Corps)是一家倾向民主党的公共意见研究机构。他们邀请若干共和党党派的成员参加焦点小组座谈，并在一份近期得到广泛引用的备忘录里，报告了座谈结果。他们发现，共和党选民“在这样一个少数民族人口日渐增多的国家里，对其白人的身份十分敏感”——他们认为，社会福利保障帮助了“那些人”却没有帮助他们自己，同时把越来越多的非白人群体推向了民主党。没错，那个被许多州拒绝的联邦医疗补助拓展计划如果实施，将会更多帮助到贫穷的黑人。
So there is indeed a war on the poor, coinciding with and deepening the pain from a troubled economy. And that war is now the central, defining issue of American politics.
那么，这确实是一场针对穷人的战争，而且正好遭遇经济困境，又加深了困境中的痛楚。而这场战争正是当下美国政治最重要，起到决定意义的问题。