The federal government is shut down, we’re about to hit the debt ceiling (with disastrous economic consequences), and no resolution is in sight. How did this happen?
联邦政府停摆了，我们即将达到债务上限（并引发灾难性的经济后果），至今看不到解决方案。我们是怎么落到这步田地的呢？
The main answer, which only the most pathologically “balanced” reporting can deny, is the radicalization of the Republican Party. As Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein put it last year in their book, “It’s Even Worse Than It Looks,” the G.O.P. has become “an insurgent outlier — ideologically extreme; contemptuous of the inherited social and economic policy regime; scornful of compromise; unpersuaded by conventional understanding of facts, evidence and science; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition.”
主要的原因在于共和党的偏激行径，这一点只有那些有着极端病态的“平衡感”的报道才会去否认。正如托马斯·曼(Thomas Mann)和诺曼·奥恩斯坦(Norman Ornstein)去年在他们合著的《比表面看来更糟》(It's Even Worse Than It Looks)一书中所写的，共和党已经变成了“反叛的局外人”——意识形态极端分子；蔑视代代相承的社会和经济政策体制；无法用普遍认同的事实、证据和科学解释来说服；无视其政治对手的正当性。
But there’s one more important piece of the story. Conservative leaders are indeed ideologically extreme, but they’re also deeply incompetent. So much so, in fact, that the Dunning-Kruger effect — the truly incompetent can’t even recognize their own incompetence — reigns supreme.
然而这个故事里还有一点是更为要紧的。保守派领导人的确是在意识形态上走极端，但同时他们又是极其无能的。事实上，他们的无能已经引发了达克效应(Dunning-Kruger effect)——也就是无能到了无法意识到自身之无能的地步，并使之笼罩一切。
To see what I’m talking about, consider the report in Sunday’s Times about the origins of the current crisis. Early this year, it turns out, some of the usual suspects — the Koch brothers, the political arm of the Heritage Foundation and others — plotted strategy in the wake of Republican electoral defeat. Did they talk about rethinking ideas that voters had soundly rejected? No, they talked extortion, insisting that the threat of a shutdown would induce President Obama to abandon health reform.
看看《纽约时报》周日发表的一篇关于当前危机的起源的报道，就明白我的意思了。原来，年初有一群老面孔——科氏兄弟(Koch)、传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)的政治机构，以及其他几人——在共和党大选落败后曾密谋对策。他们在讨论重新考虑那些被选民明确拒绝了的想法？不是，他们商量的是敲诈勒索，他们坚信政府停摆的威胁会迫使奥巴马总统放弃医疗改革。
This was crazy talk. After all, health reform is Mr. Obama’s signature domestic achievement. You’d have to be completely clueless to believe that he could be bullied into giving up his entire legacy by a defeated, unpopular G.O.P. — as opposed to responding, as he has, by making resistance to blackmail an issue of principle. But the possibility that their strategy might backfire doesn’t seem to have occurred to the would-be extortionists.
这纯属在说疯话。无论如何，医疗改革是奥巴马在国内取得的标志性政绩。如果你觉得一个已经被他打败的、不受欢迎的共和党过来吓唬他一下，就能让他放弃自己的传世功绩，而不是像他现在这样，把拒绝敲诈当成了一个原则问题来处理，那你肯定是完全不了解情况的。然而这些一心想要敲竹杠的人似乎完全没想过，他们采取的手段是有可能起到适得其反的效果的。
Even more remarkable, in its way, was the response of House Republican leaders, who didn’t tell the activists they were being foolish. All they did was urge that the extortion attempt be made over the debt ceiling rather than a government shutdown. And as recently as last week Eric Cantor, the majority leader, was in effect assuring his colleagues that the president will, in fact, give in to blackmail. As far as anyone can tell, Republican leaders are just beginning to suspect that Mr. Obama really means what he has been saying all along.
更让人难以置信的是，众议院共和党领袖们正在作出的反应，这些人没有告诉那些激进分子他们正在干蠢事。领袖们所做的，就是敦促手下拿债务上限而不是政府停摆为对象，来尝试着敲诈一把。实际上，直到上周，众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)还在对他的同僚打包票，说总统肯定会在敲诈面前低头。目前看来，共和党领袖刚刚意识到，奥巴马一直以来的说的那些话，可能真的不是随便说说的。
Many people seem perplexed by the transformation of the G.O.P. into the political equivalent of the Keystone Kops — the Boehner Bunglers? Republican elders, many of whom have been in denial about their party’s radicalization, seem especially startled. But all of this was predictable.
对于共和党变成了一帮启斯东警察(Keystone Kops)般的政治蠢货，许多人似乎感到不可思议——也许应该称他们为博纳(Boehner)草包（博纳是众议院现任议长——译注）？共和党的元老们似乎对此尤为震惊，他们当中的许多人一直否认共和党变得越来越偏激。不过，所有这一切都是可以预料的。
It has been obvious for years that the modern Republican Party is no longer capable of thinking seriously about policy. Whether the issue is climate change or inflation, party members believe what they want to believe, and any contrary evidence is dismissed as a hoax, the product of vast liberal conspiracies.
多年以来，一个明显的事实是，当代共和党已经无法严肃地思考政策问题。无论是气候变化问题还是通胀问题，共和党人只相信他们想要相信的，任何相反的证据都被斥为骗局，是自由派的巨大阴谋的产物。
For a while the party was able to compartmentalize, to remain savvy and realistic about politics even as it rejected objectivity everywhere else. But this wasn’t sustainable. Sooner or later, the party’s attitude toward policy — we listen only to people who tell us what we want to hear, and attack the bearers of uncomfortable news — was bound to infect political strategy, too.
曾几何时，共和党还是可以将问题区分对待的，尽管拒绝接受任何异己的客观性，却也维系着基本的政治常识和对政治的现实认知。然而这是不可持续的。该党对政策的态度早晚必然会影响到它的政治战略，这个态度就是，我们只听巧言令色的人的话，对传递令人不安的消息的人，我们将予以谴责。
Remember what happened in the 2012 election — not the fact that Mitt Romney lost, but the fact that all the political experts around him apparently had no inkling that he was likely to lose. Polls overwhelmingly pointed to an Obama victory, but Republican analysts denounced the polls as “skewed” and attacked the media outlets reporting those polls for their alleged liberal bias. These days Karl Rove is pleading with House Republicans to be reasonable and accept the results of the 2012 election. But on election night he tried to bully Fox News into retracting its correct call of Ohio — and hence, in effect, the election — for Mr. Obama.
想想2012年大选所发生的事吧，我说的不是米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的败选，而是所有围绕着他的政治专家，显然都完全没有想过他是有可能输的。民意调查一边倒地表明，奥巴马会获胜，然而共和党的分析师却斥责民调结果“有失偏颇”，并指责媒体是出于他们所说的自由派偏见，才报道这些民调的。卡尔·罗夫(Karl Rove)如今正在请求众议院共和党人理智一些，请他们接受2012年的大选结果。然而就在大选当夜，他还曾试图威胁福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)收回有关俄亥俄州已被奥巴马拿下——亦即奥巴马实际上已经当选——的正确判断。
Unfortunately for all of us, even the shock of electoral defeat wasn’t enough to burst the G.O.P. bubble; it’s still a party dominated by wishful thinking, and all but impervious to inconvenient facts. And now that party’s leaders have bungled themselves into a corner.
对我们而言很不幸的是，即使是大选落败的打击也不足以戳破共和党的泡沫；它依然是一个被一厢情愿的空想笼罩着的政党，对令人难堪的现实，它几乎视而不见。现在，该党领袖已经笨拙地把自己逼入了死角。
Everybody not inside the bubble realizes that Mr. Obama can’t and won’t negotiate under the threat that the House will blow up the economy if he doesn’t — any concession at all would legitimize extortion as a routine part of politics. Yet Republican leaders are just beginning to get a clue, and so far clearly have no idea how to back down. Meanwhile, the government is shut, and a debt crisis looms. Incompetence can be a terrible thing.
每个不在泡沫之内的人都意识到，奥巴马不能也不会在威胁之下妥协（共和党威胁说，如果他不妥协，众议院就会令经济瘫痪）——这是因为，哪怕是任何一点让步，都会把敲诈勒索变成一个正当行为，使之成为政治生活中的家常便饭。不过，共和党领袖才刚开始领会到这一点，到目前为止，他们显然对如何找台阶下去没有半点头绪。与此同时，政府关着门，债务危机迫在眉睫。无能竟然可以如此可怕。