Remember the “death tax”? The estate tax is quite literally a millionaire’s tax — a tax that affects only a tiny minority of the population, and is mostly paid by a handful of very wealthy heirs. Nonetheless, right-wingers have successfully convinced many voters that the tax is a cruel burden on ordinary Americans — that all across the nation small businesses and family farms are being broken up to pay crushing estate tax liabilities.
还记得“死亡税”吗？遗产税是一种严格意义上的富豪税，仅影响人口中的极小部分，而且大多由非常富有的继承者缴纳。虽说如此，但右翼还是成功地说服了许多选民，让他们相信遗产税是强加在美国劳苦大众身上的残忍负担，全美的小企业和家族农场都因为要上交毁灭性的遗产税而破了产。
You might think that such heart-wrenching cases are actually quite rare, but you’d be wrong: They aren’t rare; they’re nonexistent. In particular, nobody has ever come up with a real modern example of a family farm sold to meet estate taxes. The whole “death tax” campaign has rested on eliciting human sympathy for purely imaginary victims.
大家或许会认为，此类令人心碎的例子实际上颇为少见。大家错了：它们不是少见，而是根本不存在。尤其是，从来都没有人举出过卖掉家族农场来缴纳遗产税的任何当代真实案例。整个“死亡税”宣传攻势仰仗的是，激起人们对纯粹臆想出来的受害者的同情心。
And now they’re trying a similar campaign against health reform.
如今，他们又在反对医保改革上故伎重演。
I’m not sure whether conservatives realize yet that their Plan A on health reform — wait for Obamacare’s inevitable collapse, and reap the political rewards — isn’t working. But it isn’t. Enrollments have recovered strongly from the law’s disastrous start-up; in California, which had a working website from the beginning, enrollment has already exceeded first-year projections. The mix of people signed up so far is older than planners had hoped, but not enough so to cause big premium hikes, let alone the often-predicted “death spiral.”
我不太清楚，保守派是否已经意识到，他们对付医改的首选方案不会成功。他们准备等着奥巴马医改注定的失败，然后坐享政治回报。但它没失败。经历了糟糕起步后，参保人数稳步回升。在加利福尼亚州，网站从一开始就运行良好，参保人数已超过了此前对第一年的数据所做的预测。参保人员的年龄结构老于策划者的期望，但并不足以引发保费激增，更别提保守派动不动预言的“死亡漩涡”了。
And conservatives don’t really have a Plan B — in their world, nobody even dares mention the possibility that health reform might actually prove workable. Still, you can already see some on the right groping toward a new strategy, one that relies on highlighting examples of the terrible harm Obamacare does. There’s only one problem: they haven’t managed to come up with any real examples. Consider several recent ventures on the right:
而且，保守派并没有备选方案。在他们的世界里，根本就无人胆敢提及医改或许会被证明行之有效的可能性。尽管如此，大家已经可以看到，一些右翼人士在探索一种新的策略。这种策略依靠的是，强调奥巴马医改造成可怕伤害的案例。问题是，他们没有成功地找到任何真实的例子。让我们来看看右翼最近进行的几次尝试吧：
■ In the official G.O.P. response to the State of the Union address, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers alluded to the case of “Bette in Spokane,” who supposedly lost her good health insurance coverage and was forced to pay nearly $700 more a month in premiums. Local reporters located the real Bette, and found that the story was completely misleading: her original policy provided very little protection, and she could get a much better plan for much less than the claimed cost.
■ 在代表共和党对国情咨文演讲所做的正式回应中，众议员凯西·麦克莫里斯·罗杰斯(Cathy McMorris Rodgers)提及了“斯波坎的贝蒂”(Bette)。按照她的说法，贝蒂失去了自己好端端的医保，被迫每月多付700多美元（约合4300元人民币）的保费。当地记者找到了贝蒂的原型，发现罗杰斯的说法是彻底的误导：贝蒂原有的保单提供的保障极为有限，而且，她能够以低得多的开支买到好得多的医保。
■ In Louisiana, the AstroTurf (fake grass-roots) group Americans for Prosperity — the group appears to be largely financed and controlled by the Koch brothers and other wealthy donors — has been running ads targeting Senator Mary Landrieu. In these ads, we see what appear to be ordinary Louisiana residents receiving notices telling them that their insurance policies have been canceled because of Obamacare. But the people in the ads are, in fact, paid actors, and the scenes they play aren’t re-enactments of real events — they’re “emblematic,” says a spokesman for the group.
■ 在路易斯安那州，伪草根组织“美国繁荣”(Americans for Prosperity)一直在播放针对参议员玛丽·兰德里欧(Mary Landrieu)的广告。该组织的大部分资金似乎来自科氏兄弟(Koch brothers)等富豪的捐款，也为他们所控制。在这些广告中，我们会看到，一些看似路易斯安那普通居民的人收到了通知，因为奥巴马医改，他们的保单被取消了。可是，这些广告里的人实际上是雇来的演员，里面上演的情景也不是真实事件的再现——按照“美国繁荣”组织发言人的说法，是“象征性的”。
■ In Michigan, Americans for Prosperity is running an ad that does feature a real person. But is she telling a real story? In the ad, Julia Boonstra, who is suffering from leukemia, declares that her insurance has been canceled, that the new policy will have unaffordable out-of-pocket costs, and that “If I do not receive my medication, I will die.” But Glenn Kessler of The Washington Post tried to check the facts, and learned that thanks to lower premiums she will almost surely save nearly as much if not more than she will be paying in higher out-of-pocket costs. A spokesman for Americans for Prosperity responded to questions about the numbers with bluster and double-talk — this is about “a real person suffering from blood cancer, not some neat and tidy White House PowerPoint.”
■ 在密歇根州，“美国繁荣”推出的一则广告中倒是以真人为主角。不过，她说的是真话吗？广告显示，患有白血病的朱莉娅·布恩斯特拉(Julia Boonstra)声称自己的保险被取消了，但她负担不起新保单所需的自掏腰包的部分，而“一旦我没药可吃，就会死。”然而，《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的格伦·凯斯勒(Glenn Kessler)试着进行了事实核查后发现，由于保费降低，她省下的钱，极有可能等同于自掏腰包部分提高的钱数，甚至还可能超过。当被问到这些数据的问题时，“美国繁荣”组织的发言人报之以虚张声势和含糊其辞——广告的重点是“因为血癌而备受煎熬的真实的人，而不是什么清爽干净的白宫幻灯片”。
Even supporters of health reform are somewhat surprised by the right’s apparent inability to come up with real cases of hardship. Surely there must be some people somewhere actually being hurt by a reform that affects millions of Americans. Why can’t the right find these people and exploit them?
对于右翼显然没法找出受苦受难的现实案例，就连医改支持者也多少有点意外。当然了，肯定在某个角落会有某些人真的因为一场影响成百上千万美国民众的改革而受损。那么，右派为什么没法找到并利用这帮人呢？
The most likely answer is that the true losers from Obamacare generally aren’t very sympathetic. For the most part, they’re either very affluent people affected by the special taxes that help finance reform, or at least moderately well-off young men in very good health who can no longer buy cheap, minimalist plans. Neither group would play well in tear-jerker ads.
最可信的解释是，真正因奥巴马医改而受损的人，基本上不太值得同情。他们中间的大多数，要么是因为资助医改的特殊税种而受到影响的大富豪；要么是非常健康且至少比较富裕的男青年——他们不能再买成本低廉的最基本医保了。这两群人都没法演好催人泪下的广告。
No, what the right wants are struggling average Americans, preferably women, facing financial devastation from health reform. So those are the tales they’re telling, even though they haven’t been able to come up with any real examples.
是啊，右翼希望找到的是苦苦挣扎的普通民众，最好还是女性，正面临着医改带来的财务灾难。因此，他们就在传播这样的故事，哪怕一直没法找出真实案例。
Hey, I have a suggestion: Why not have ads in which actors play Americans who have both lost their insurance thanks to Obamacare and lost the family farm to the death tax? I mean, once you’re just making stuff up, anything goes.
嗨，我倒是有个主意：干嘛不找一群演员来拍广告，让他们扮演一些同时因奥巴马医改而失去医保、因死亡税而失去家族农场的人呢？反正你打算说谎，还有什么底线。