Hypocrisy is the tribute vice pays to virtue. So when you see something like the current scramble by Republicans to declare their deep concern for America’s poor, it’s a good sign, indicating a positive change in social norms. Goodbye, sneering at the 47 percent; hello, fake compassion.
虚伪是恶毒向美德的致敬。所以当你看到，共和党人争先恐后地宣称对美国的穷人抱有深切关怀，这是一个好迹象，显示出社会规范有了积极的转变。不再蔑视47%的民众，而是要去表达虚伪的同情。
And the big new poverty report from the House Budget Committee, led by Representative Paul Ryan, offers additional reasons for optimism. Mr. Ryan used to rely on “scholarship” from places like the Heritage Foundation. Remember when Heritage declared that the Ryan budget would reduce unemployment to a ludicrous 2.8 percent, then tried to cover its tracks? This time, however, Mr. Ryan is citing a lot of actual social science research.
由保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)众议员领导的众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)新近发布的关于贫困的宏大报告，又给出了更多让我们保持乐观的理由。瑞安曾经需要依赖传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)等机构提供的“奖学金”。还记得吗？传统基金会曾颇为荒唐地宣称，瑞安的预算提案能把失业率降低到2.8%，之后又努力掩盖这种说法。然而这一次，瑞安倒是引述了很多真实的社会科学研究。
Unfortunately, the research he cites doesn’t actually support his assertions. Even more important, his whole premise about why poverty persists is demonstrably wrong.
不幸的是，他引用的那些研究，并不能支撑其论断。更重要的是，他在论述贫困为何能持续时，整个前提具有明显谬误。
To understand where the new report is coming from, it helps to recall something Mr. Ryan said two years ago: “We don’t want to turn the safety net into a hammock that lulls able-bodied people to lives of dependency and complacency, that drains them of their will and their incentive to make the most of their lives.” There are actually two assertions here. First, antipoverty programs breed complacency; that is, they discourage work. Second, complacency — the failure of the poor to work as much as they should — is what perpetuates poverty.
要想理解这份新报告从何而来，不妨回顾一下瑞安两年前说过的话：“我们不想把安全网转变成吊床，诱使健全的人去心满意足地过依赖他人的生活，消磨他们的意志力和努力追求完满生活的意愿。”他其实在这里提出了两个论断，首先，消除贫困的项目会让人滋生自满情绪，也就是说抑制工作的意愿。其次，自满，也就是穷人做不到尽其所能地去工作，是延续贫困的原因。
The budget committee report is almost entirely concerned with the first assertion. It notes that there has been a large decline in labor force participation, and it claims that antipoverty programs, which reduce the incentive to work, are a major reason for this decline. Then come 200 pages of text and 683 footnotes, designed to create the impression that the scholarly research literature supports the report’s claims.
预算委员会的报告几乎完全是在讨论第一个论断。文中提到劳动力参与率出现了大幅下滑，还宣称下滑的原因是缓解贫困的项目，因为这种项目打消了工作的意愿。接着，报告就给出了200页文本和683个脚注，如此设计是为了制造一种印象，让人们以为学术研究文献支持报告的论断。
But it doesn’t. In some cases, Mr. Ryan and colleagues outright misstate what the research says, drawing outraged protests from a number of prominent scholars about the misrepresentation of their work. More often, however, the report engages in argument by innuendo. It makes an assertion about the bad effects of a program, then mentions a number of studies of that program, and thereby leaves the impression that those studies support its assertion, even though they don’t.
可惜实情并非如此。在一些情况下，瑞安和他的同事们完全错误地表述了研究的结论，导致许多知名学者因为自己的研究受到误读，愤而表示抗议。然而，报告中更常见的做法是，通过暗示来表达观点。比如，它会先就一个项目的不良后果做出论断，接着提到若干个关于该项目的研究，这样就会产生那些研究支持其论断的印象，即使研究结论恰恰相反。
What does scholarly research on antipoverty programs actually say? We have quite good evidence on the effects of food stamps and Medicaid, which draw most of Mr. Ryan’s ire — and which his budgets propose slashing drastically. Food stamps, it seems, do lead to a reduction in work and working hours, but the effect is modest. Medicaid has little, if any, effect on work effort.
对于消除贫困的项目，学术界的研究到底持什么观点？关于食品券和联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)的效果，就有很好的证据支撑。这两个项目招致了瑞安最大的怨恨，而他的预算案也计划大幅削减它们。食品券似乎的确会导致工作和工时数量下降，但影响是有限的。而联邦医疗补助对工作热情几乎不会产生影响，或影响极小。
Over all, here’s the verdict of one comprehensive survey: “While there are significant behavioral side effects of many programs, their aggregate impact is very small.” In short, Mr. Ryan’s poverty report, like his famous budget plan, is a con job.
一项全面研究得出的结论是，总体而言，“尽管许多项目都会对人的行为产生显著的副作用，但它们的总体影响是很微小的。”简而言之，瑞安的贫困报告，就像他著名的预算计划一样，是诈骗。
Now, you can still argue that making antipoverty programs much more generous would indeed reduce the incentive to work. If you look at cross-county comparisons, you find that low-income households in the United States, which does less to help the poor than any other major advanced nation, work much more than their counterparts abroad. So, yes, incentives do have some effect on work effort.
现在仍然可以说，大幅增加反贫困项目的资金投入，的确会削减工作的意愿。但是与其他国家比较一下，就会发现美国的低收入家庭远比其他国家的低收入家庭工作得更多，因为美国与其他任何主要发达国家相比，向穷人给予的帮助都更少。这样说来，激励的确会对工作意愿产生一些影响。
But why, exactly, should that be such a concern? Mr. Ryan would have us believe that the “hammock” created by the social safety net is the reason so many Americans remain trapped in poverty. But the evidence says nothing of the kind.
但我们到底为什么需要如此担心这个问题呢？瑞安想让我们相信，社会安全网编织出的“吊床”正是如此之多的美国人一直陷于贫困的原因。但是没有证据支持这样的说法。
After all, if generous aid to the poor perpetuates poverty, the United States — which treats its poor far more harshly than other rich countries, and induces them to work much longer hours — should lead the West in social mobility, in the fraction of those born poor who work their way up the scale. In fact, it’s just the opposite: America has less social mobility than most other advanced countries.
毕竟，如果向穷人给予慷慨的援助会固化贫困，鉴于美国对待穷人远比其他富国要恶劣，于是他们的工作时间要长得多，那么美国的社会流动性（即生来贫穷，但通过努力提高了社会阶层的人的比例）应该在西方世界领先才对。但事实完全相反：美国的社会流动性要比多数其他发达国家更差。
And there’s no puzzle why: it’s hard for young people to get ahead when they suffer from poor nutrition, inadequate medical care, and lack of access to good education. The antipoverty programs that we have actually do a lot to help people rise. For example, Americans who received early access to food stamps were healthier and more productive in later life than those who didn’t. But we don’t do enough along these lines. The reason so many Americans remain trapped in poverty isn’t that the government helps them too much; it’s that it helps them too little.
原因不难猜测：如果营养不良、缺乏充足的医疗服务、缺乏良好的教育机会，年轻人很难出人头地。实际上，我们现有的反贫困项目能帮助人们上进。例如，较早得到食品券的美国人，在之后的生活中比没有得到食品券的人更健康，工作效率也更高。但我们在这方面做得还不够。之所以有这么多美国人还陷于贫困当中，原因并不是政府对他们的帮助太多了，而是政府的帮助太少了。
Which brings us back to the hypocrisy issue. It is, in a way, nice to see the likes of Mr. Ryan at least talking about the need to help the poor. But somehow their notion of aiding the poor involves slashing benefits while cutting taxes on the rich. Funny how that works.
于是又回到了“虚伪”这个话题。看到瑞安这样的人至少开始讨论帮助穷人，在某种意义上也是好事。但不知道怎么回事儿，他们帮助穷人的设想，涉及削减福利并且为富人减税。很好笑，这怎么能行呢。