Republicans wrested back control of the Senate on Tuesday by adding at least seven seats to their ranks, riding discontent and resentment about President Obama and his policies and consolidating Republican power on Capitol Hill.
周二，共和党人依靠民众对奥巴马总统及其政策的不满与怨恨，增加了至少七个席位，从而夺回对参议院的控制权，巩固了共和党人在国会山(Capitol Hill)的权力。
Republicans picked up the sixth seat they needed with a win in North Carolina, as Thom Tillis, the State House speaker, defeated the incumbent, Kay Hagan, a Democrat. In Iowa, the Republican Joni Ernst, a state senator, defeated Representative Bruce Braley to win the seat vacated by longtime Senator Tom Harkin, who is retiring at the end of this year.
随着北卡罗来纳州众议院议长汤姆·蒂利什(Thom Tillis)击败民主党人、现任参议员凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)，共和党人获得了获胜所需的第六个席位。在艾奥瓦州，共和党人、州参议员约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)击败众议员布鲁斯·布雷利(Bruce Braley)，赢得参议员汤姆·哈金(Tom Harkin)空出的席位，长期担任参议员的哈金将于今年年底退休。
Voters in Arkansas and Colorado also ousted the Democratic incumbents Mark Pryor and Mark Udall, and elected Republicans in West Virginia, Montana and South Dakota.
阿肯色州和科罗拉多州的选民也都抛弃了民主党人、现任联邦参议员马克·普赖尔(Mark Pryor)和马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)，西弗吉尼亚州、蒙大拿州、南达科他州的参议员也由共和党人当选。
With several contests still too close to call late Tuesday, unofficial results showed Republicans emerging as winners in enough states to claim victory. The party’s leaders in Washington will now control both chambers in Congress as Mr. Obama struggles to fashion an agenda in the remaining two years in his term.
周二晚些时候，一些州的竞争仍然难分伯仲，非官方结果显示，共和党人已经获得足够多的席位，能够宣告胜利。正当奥巴马试图在剩下的两年任期里形成一个议程之际，华盛顿的共和党领袖们将掌控国会两院。
Six years ago, Mr. Obama swept into office, carrying Democrats with him and using majorities in both chambers to push through health care and economic stimulus legislation. But two years later, a Tea Party revolt gave Republicans control of the House and made Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio the House speaker. Mr. Obama returned the favor in 2012, winning re-election and claiming a new mandate for his agenda.
六年前，奥巴马凭借巨大优势带着民主党人入主白宫，利用国会两院的多数党推动医保法案、经济刺激法案获得通过。但两年后，茶党(Tea Party)的抵制使得共和党控制了众议院，使得俄亥俄州众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)成为众议院议长。奥巴马于2012年给予回报，赢得连任，得到了民众对其议程的新授权。
On Tuesday, Republicans completed a congressional takeover that will most likely elevate Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky to become the chamber’s majority leader, deposing Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada.
周二，共和党人接管了国会，这可能会使肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)取代内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)，升任参议院多数党领袖。
The outcome is a blow to Democrats, who struggled in vain to defend incumbent senators in deeply conservative states where anger and frustration at Mr. Obama made him unpopular. The president was largely unwelcome in almost all of the Senate contests, where Democrats sought to distance themselves from Washington and the president’s accomplishments.
这一结果对民主党人造成打击，他们努力保住极度保守的州的现任参议员，但最终只是徒劳，这些州的民众对奥巴马感到愤怒和不满，因此他在那里是不得人心的。在几乎所有的参议院竞选活动中，奥巴马总统基本上不受欢迎，民主党人试图在竞选中撇清自己与华盛顿及总统的成就的关系。
In Colorado, Representative Cory Gardner knocked off Mr. Udall in a state that President Obama had won twice and where Democrats had pointed to a strong ground game that they said would hold off the Republican challenge.
在科罗拉多州，众议员科里·加德纳(Cory Gardner)击败了尤德尔，奥巴马曾两次赢得该州的选票，民主党人指出，他们在该州会通过强劲的地方组织能力顶住了共和党的挑战。
In Arkansas, Representative Tom Cotton, the Republican candidate, defeated Mr. Pryor after hammering the Democrat’s ties to Mr. Obama in a state where the president is deeply unpopular. Mr. Cotton, an Iraq combat veteran and a first-term congressman, won despite feverish campaigning by former President Bill Clinton on behalf of Mr. Pryor, according to projections by The Associated Press.
将普赖尔与在阿肯色州深受厌恶的奥巴马总统紧密联系在一起后，共和党候选人、现任联邦众议员汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)击败了普赖尔。科顿是在伊拉克战争中上过前线的老兵，目前在其首个众议员任期内。尽管前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)竭力为普赖尔站台，但根据美联社(The Associated Press)的估算，科顿赢得了胜利。
In West Virginia, Shelley Moore Capito, a Republican, easily defeated her Democratic opponent to replace Senator Jay Rockefeller, who is retiring after 30 years in the Senate.
在西弗吉尼亚州，共和党人谢利·摩尔·卡皮托(Shelley Moore Capito)轻松击败民主党对手，将取代在参议院供职30年后准备退休的现任参议员杰伊·洛克菲勒(Jay Rockefeller)。
Mike Rounds, a former Republican governor of South Dakota, won the third pickup to add to the Republican gains, according to projections by The A.P. And in Montana, Representative Steve Daines, a Republican, won a seat that had been in Democratic hands for decades.
据美联社的估算，前南达科他州州长、共和党人迈克·朗兹(Mike Rounds)赢得第三个席位，加大了共和党的优势。在蒙大拿州，众议员、共和党人史蒂夫·戴恩斯(Steve Daines)赢得了被民主党人控制了数十年的席位。
In an outcome that diminished the chances of the Democrats’ clinging to the majority, the Republican businessman David Perdue defeated Michelle Nunn, a Democrat, and avoided a runoff in Georgia’s Senate race, The A.P. reported. Democrats had hoped that Ms. Nunn, the daughter of former Senator Sam Nunn, could grab a Republican seat.
美联社报道称，共和党商人戴维·珀杜(David Perdue)打败了民主党对手米歇尔·纳恩(Michelle Nunn)，避免了乔治亚州的参议员竞选进行决选投票。这一结果削弱了民主党继续把持多数席位的可能性。民主党原本希望，身为前参议员萨姆·纳恩(Sam Nunn)之女的米歇尔·纳恩，能从共和党手中夺得一个席位。
And the Democrats lost their opportunity to pick up a Republican-held seat in Kansas when Senator Pat Roberts, the longtime incumbent, was projected by the news networks to be the victor over Greg Orman, a businessman who ran as an independent.
而且，当新闻媒体预计长期在职的现任参议员帕特·罗伯茨(Pat Roberts)将战胜以无党派人士身份参选的商人格雷格·奥尔曼(Greg Orman)时，民主党失去了在堪萨斯州拿下一个由共和党把持的席位的机会。
In New Hampshire, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat and former governor, beat back a challenge from Scott Brown, a former Republican senator from Massachusetts, The A.P. projected.
美联社预测，在新罕布什尔，民主党参议员、前州长珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)打败了来自马萨诸塞州的前共和党参议员斯科特·布朗(Scott Brown)。
Mr. McConnell of Kentucky handily won re-election, giving the Republicans the first victory.
肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(MitchMcConnell)轻松赢得连任，给共和党带来了第一场胜利。
The five-term senator fought an intense and spirited campaign against Alison Lundergan Grimes, Kentucky’s secretary of state, who Democrats hoped would tap into voter frustration with Washington to end the career of the longtime master of the Capitol’s legislative process.
麦康奈尔已五度担任参议员。他针对肯塔基州务卿艾莉森·卢德甘·格里梅斯(Alison Lundergan Grimes)展开了一场紧张、激烈的竞选活动。民主党本希望格里梅斯能借助选民对华盛顿的失望，结束长期控制着国会山立法程序的麦康奈尔的职业生涯。
Well into a suspense-filled evening, some of the most crucial Senate and governor’s races remained excruciatingly close, a reflection of the electorate’s refusal to reward either party with their loyalty after two years of gridlock in Washington and crisis around the world. As expected, the Senate race in Louisiana was headed to a runoff in December after the incumbent, Mary L. Landrieu, and her Republican opponent, Representative Bill Cassidy, appeared unlikely to capture at least 50 percent of the vote.
这个夜晚充满悬念。直到深夜，部分最关键的参议员和州长选举的竞争依然呈胶着状态，这反映出，在华盛顿的僵局持续了两年，且全球危机不断的情况下，选民不愿用忠诚回报两党中的任何一方。不出所料，在路易斯安那州现任参议员玛丽·兰德里欧(Mary Landrieu)和共和党对手、众议员比尔·卡西迪(Bill Cassidy)似乎都不太可能获得至少50%的选票后，该州的参议员选举将在12月进行决选投票。
Republicans emerged victorious in one hotly contested governor’s races, with Rick Scott, the incumbent, defeating his Democratic rival, Charlie Crist, after a bitter contest that featured personal attacks and a bizarre fight over a small electric fan. The Republicans also avoided defeat in Wisconsin, where Gov. Scott Walker won re-election in a hard-fought race in which labor unions worked furiously to oust him.
随着在任的里克·斯科特(Rick Scott)击败民主党对手查理·克里斯特(Charlie Crist)，共和党在这场激烈的州长角逐中胜出。这是一场充斥着人身攻击的斗争，两人此前围绕一台小电扇进行了一场匪夷所思的争论。
A consensus of election-eve polls bolstered Republican spirits, giving the party a clear advantage in most of the competitive Senate races. Democrats, meanwhile, clung to hope that an urgent and robust turnout effort, modeled on Mr. Obama’s presidential campaigns, would rally their supporters to save the party’s majority in the Senate.
选举前夕的民调一致认为，共和党在多数存在竞争的参议院选战中优势明显，该党精神为之一振。另一边，民主党人则寄希望于他们大力进行的紧急投票动员活动——基于奥巴马的总统竞选模式——能将支持者招集起来，挽救该党在参议院的多数党地位。
But even Mr. Obama, the party’s top cheerleader, appeared dispirited late Tuesday. Calling into a Hartford radio show, the president seemed ready to concede defeat in an election that will shape the balance of his time in the White House and could constrain his legacy.
不过，到了周二深夜，就连身为民主党拉拉队长的奥巴马本人也显得颇为沮丧。在打往哈特福德的一个广播节目的电话中，总统的话语间流露出准备好承认失败之意。这场选举的结果将塑造他在白宫的剩余岁月，并可能让他的政治遗产缩水。
“This is probably the worst possible group of states for Democrats since Dwight Eisenhower,” Mr. Obama said. “There are a lot of states that are being contested where they just tend to tilt Republican, and Democrats are competitive, but they tend to tilt that way.”
“这很可能是德怀特·艾森豪威尔(Dwight Eisenhower)之后民主党面对的最凶险的州级选战组合，”奥巴马说。“有很多个面临争夺的州就是倾向于共和党，虽然民主党具备竞争力，但它们就是有倾向。”
In early results, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, easily won re-election after earlier fighting back a primary challenge, The A.P. reported. Senator Tim Scott, a South Carolina Republican who was appointed in 2013 to replace a retiring senator, won another two years in office. And Nikki Haley, the state’s Republican governor, won another term.
美联社报道，初步结果显示，南卡罗来纳州的现任共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)继早前击退初选对手之后，这次又轻松赢得连任。同样在该州，2013年被任命接任退休参议员的共和党人蒂姆·斯科特(Tim Scott)赢得了再任职两年的机会。而且，共和党州长尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)也成功连任。
In other Senate races, Senator Susan Collins, a three-term Republican from Maine, won re-election. Senator Cory Booker, a Democrat from New Jersey, was elected to his first full term after winning a special election last year. Senator Thad Cochran, a Republican from Mississippi, barely survived a contentious primary and won re-election, while Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who was appointed last year, won election to his first full six-year term.
在参议院其他席位的角逐中，已经连任三届的缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)再次胜选。新泽西州民主党参议员科里·布克(Cory Booker)曾在去年的补选中取胜，现在他首次在选举中赢得了整个任期。密西西比州共和党参议员萨德·科翰(Thad Cochran)在竞争激烈的初选中险胜，此次赢得了连任。马萨诸塞州民主党参议员爱德华·J·马基(Edward J. Markey)去年赢得补选，现在首次赢得了一个六年的完整任期。
In preliminary results from exit polls, voters who cast ballots on Tuesday expressed deep frustration about Mr. Obama, Congress and the overall direction of the country.
出口民调的初步结果显示，周二投票的选民对奥巴马总统、国会，以及美国的整体走向表达了深深的不满。
Nearly half of all voters said the economy — a subject for which candidates offered few serious solutions on the campaign trail — was the issue most on their minds, almost double the number who picked health care. Roughly two-thirds of the voters in North Carolina said the country was “seriously off track,” and six in 10 expressed negative opinions of the Obama administration.
近半数的选民表示，他们最关注的议题是经济，比自称最关注医疗议题的选民几乎多一倍。然而在竞选过程中，候选人并没有针对经济议题提出多少严肃的解决方案。在北卡罗来纳州，约有三分之二的选民称，这个国家“严重脱离轨道”，五分之三的选民对奥巴马政府表达了负面看法。
Early exit poll results showed that a majority of voters disapprove of the job Mr. Obama is doing as president, and most said they are dissatisfied or angry with his administration. Disapproval of the president looks similar to what it was in the 2010 midterm elections, when 55 percent disapproved.
初步的出口民调数据显示，多数选民不认可奥巴马担任总统期间的作为。大部分选民表示，他们对奥巴马政府感到不满或愤怒。对于总统的不满似乎与2010年中期选举时的数据相当，当时有55%的选民表示不认可。
With multiple races still close across the nation, the dueling political parties, candidates and advocacy groups on Tuesday unleashed a final fevered push to drive voters to the polls in a year when a sophisticated ground game became an increasingly vital element of electoral strategies.
全美各地许多选区的竞争都十分激烈，全力以赴的两党、候选人，以及倡导团体，周二都掀起了最后一轮攻势，鼓动选民前往投票站。今年，细致入微的基层组织工作，在选举战略中成为了越发关键的组成部分。
After months of sending desperate emails pleading for money, the candidates turned to emails pleading for people to vote. Some of the messages sounded quite urgent.
数月来，候选人一直在发送措辞恳切的电子邮件，乞求民众慷慨解囊，现在他们开始发送电子邮件乞请选民投票。一些邮件的措辞相当有紧迫感。
“First things first,” said one from Senator Mark Udall, the Colorado Democrat who needs a surge of supporters to come from behind for a re-election win. “If you haven’t voted yet, stop reading this right now and go vote.”
科罗拉多州民主党参议员马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)发出的一则邮件中写道，“先说最重要的一件事，要是你还没有投票，现在别读了，赶紧去投票吧。”尤德尔需要大量的支持者出来为他投票，才能扭转劣势，赢得连任。
The last-minute activities ranged from high-tech digital programs to identify those who had not yet voted to the most old-fashioned approach of all — straightforward door-knocking.
最后一刻展开的竞选活动，既有高科技的数字程序，来确认哪些选民还没有投过票，也有最老派的方法——直接去敲门。
“It’s an all-out get-out-the-vote push on Election Day, talking to voters at their doors, on their phones, through Facebook and via digital ads to ensure everyone goes to the polls in a midterm election with control of the Senate at stake,” said Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee.
共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)发言人柯尔斯滕·库克沃斯基(Kirsten Kukowski)说，“在选举日之前推动选民投票的动作可谓竭尽全力，到选民的家门口交谈、打电话介绍、通过Facebook或电子广告宣传，从而确保每个人都会去投票，因为能否控制参议院，全都由这场中期选举决定。”
Republicans have trailed Democrats in recent elections in the area of voter contact and took steps this election cycle to close the gap, particularly given the intense Democratic effort to focus on early voting in key states and reach voters who participate in presidential election years but tend to skip the midterm contests.
在最近的几场选举中，共和党在接触选民这一方面落后于民主党，所以当前的选举周期里，共和党正想方设法地追赶，尤其是考虑到民主党密切关注关键州的提前投票，热衷于接触那些总统选举年投票、却忽视中期选举的选民。
“Based on our predictive analytics and public numbers in states like Colorado and Iowa, there’s no doubt we’ve closed the Democrats’ historical advantage heading into Election Day and look forward to a big day today,” Ms. Kukowski said.
“根据我们的预测分析,以及科罗拉多和艾奥瓦等州的公开数据，毫无疑问，我们已经终结了民主党历史上在选举日前的优势，期待今天成为一个重要的日子，”库克沃斯基说。
But Democrats say they have intensified their own ground game to new levels and expect that effort to make a significant difference in the outcome in places like Alaska and North Carolina, as well as Colorado and Iowa.
但民主党称已将自己的竞选活动提升到了新的水平，预计这一努力能让阿拉斯加和北卡罗来纳，以及科罗拉多和艾奥瓦等地的结果出现显著的不同。
Officials of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said their staff and volunteers were expected to make 2.8 million phone calls on Tuesday to prospective voters in nine key states and knock on 1.3 million doors. They were anticipating 1.4 million phone calls in Iowa and Colorado alone, and 425,000 door knocks in North Carolina.
民主党参议院竞选委员会(Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee)的官员表示，他们的工作人员和志愿者预计会在周二给九个关键州的潜在选民打280万个电话，并登门拜访130万户家庭。他们预计单在艾奥瓦和科罗拉多州就要打140万个电话，在北卡罗来纳要拜访42.5万户家庭。
At the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, it was all hands on deck as staff members who usually churn out news releases were among those joining in the phone calls to try to save some embattled incumbent members of Congress.
在民主党国会竞选委员会(Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee)，所有人员全部出动，通常只发布新闻的工作人员也和其他人一起打电话，试图以此拯救部分四面楚歌的现任国会议员。
“The most important thing we can do right now is talk to actual voters,” said Emily Bittner, a spokeswoman for the Democratic campaign group.
“我们现在能做的最重要的事情，是去直接和选民本人谈，”该委员会女发言人埃米莉·比特纳(Emily Bittner)说。
Polling places began to fill up early, as voters arrived to cast their ballots in elections that will shape the balance of Mr. Obama’s term and serve as the opening bell for another presidential campaign over the next two years.
随着选民前去投票，投票点早早地就开始人满为患。这些选举将影响奥巴马剩下的任期，并将在未来两年里为下一届总统选举吹响号角。
As voters left the ballot box Tuesday, many said they had voted in the hopes of seeing something change in Washington. Others complained about gridlock in the capital, faulting Mr. Obama or Republicans for refusing to compromise.
周二，随着选民离开投票箱，许多人表示其投票的目的是希望看到华盛顿出现变化。其他人则对华盛顿出现的僵局表示不满，批评奥巴马或共和党拒绝让步。
“I think the Democratic policies are failing,” said Juan Neyra, 69, a retired security guard in Denver, who said he used to vote Democratic but this year voted for Senator Udall’s Republican opponent, Cory Gardner. “Obama has not accomplished what he promised to the community. And Udall supports Obama.”
“我认为民主党的政策失败了，”69岁的丹佛退休保安胡安·内拉(Juan Neyra)说。“奥巴马没有实现给民众的承诺。但尤德尔却支持奥巴马。”内拉称自己过去常常投票支持民主党，但今年，他把票投给了参议员尤德尔的对手、共和党人科里·加德纳(Cory Gardner)。
The two parties also arrived Tuesday at the end of long campaigns for House seats and governorships. The outcomes of several bitterly fought statehouse races in Florida, Wisconsin, Georgia and Texas promised to offer some insight into the frustrated mood of voters in some key battleground states ahead of the presidential contest in 2016.
两党围绕众议院席位和州长职位展开的长期角逐，也在周二进入尾声。通过佛罗里达、威斯康星、乔治亚和德克萨斯这几个州议会选举竞争激烈的地方的结果，一定可以窥见部分关键州的选民在2016年总统竞选前的沮丧情绪。
For Republicans, the anticipation of victory Tuesday morning was clear, with the party’s leaders openly betting that the election’s results would offer a salve to them for Mr. Obama’s back-to-back presidential wins.
周二上午，共和党一方显然认为自己将获胜，该党领袖公开打赌称此次选举的结果，将是对他们在奥巴马成功连任后的慰藉。
“Victory is in the air,” Mr. McConnell said at a rally Monday.
“胜利在望，”麦康奈尔在周一的一场集会上说。
Faced with many grim predictions of deep losses, Democrats entered the final day of Campaign 2014 hoping to somehow block a Republican takeover of the Senate and head off the prospect of two years of congressional investigations and presidential vetoes to block a conservative agenda.
面对诸多严峻的惨败预测，民主党进入了2014年竞选的最后一天，希望用某种方法阻挡共和党接管参议院，并免未来两年要不断用国会调查和总统否决的方式，来阻止保守议程。
The two parties faced the voters on Election Day against a backdrop of a steadily improving economy but also heightened anxiety among Americans about how the world’s crises — Ebola, terrorists in the Mideast, economic uncertainty abroad — will affect them. But while polls have for months documented the public’s dissatisfaction with Mr. Obama, there remained substantial questions about which politicians voters would punish for failing to make them feel more secure.
选民在选举日为两党投票之际，正值经济稳步改善，但美国人担心全球危机——埃博拉、中东的恐怖分子，以及其他国家经济的不确定性会影响他们，这种担心不断加剧。虽然数月来的民调证明了民众对奥巴马的不满，但仍有一些实质性的问题，即选民会惩罚哪些没让他们感到更加安全的政治人士。
Desperately hoping to preserve its control of the Senate for the president’s final two years in office, the Democratic Party focused its final, urgent push in Iowa, Colorado, North Carolina and several other states where their candidates must rely on a strong showing from women, minorities and young voters who twice helped to elect Mr. Obama.
民主党迫切希望能在总统最后两年的任期内保住对参议院的控制，他们集中力量，最终力争在艾奥瓦州、科罗拉多州、北卡罗来纳州及其他州获胜，在这些州中，民主党候选人必须依靠女性、少数族裔及年轻选民的大力支持，他们曾两次帮助奥巴马获胜。
Mr. Obama cleared his public schedule on Tuesday and prepared to hunker down at the White House after using the election’s final weekend to campaign for the only Democratic candidates who wanted him: those in states that he easily carried in his two presidential campaigns. By contrast, Mr. Obama did not campaign over the weekend for his party’s most endangered incumbents, who have sought to distance themselves from the president and his policies.
奥巴马取消了周二的公共活动，准备留在白宫，他之前曾利用选举活动的最后一个周末，为仅有的几位需要他的民主党候选人助选：他们都在那些奥巴马两次总统竞选中轻松获胜的州。相比之下，奥巴马周末没有为民主党处境最危险的现任者助选，他们一直在设法撇清自己与总统及其政策的关系。
In North Carolina, however, Senator Kay Hagan, a Democrat, did start airing a radio ad on Monday featuring Mr. Obama in the hopes of motivating African-American voters. In the ad, the president says: “Voting is easy, so stand with me, President Obama, and take responsibility in moving North Carolina forward by voting for Kay Hagan on Nov. 4.”
但在北卡罗来纳州，民主党人凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)确实从周一开始播放了一条奥巴马参与的电台广告，希望以此动员非裔美国人选民。奥巴马在广告中说道，“投票很简单，那就跟我站在一起，承担推动北卡罗来纳州向前发展的责任，在11月4日为凯·黑根投票。”
The president’s aides predicted a blizzard of speculation after Tuesday’s election about what message angry and frustrated voters were trying to send to Mr. Obama. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, on Monday explained that because many of the closest Senate races are taking place in conservative states that Mr. Obama lost in 2012, the outcomes of those contests will not say much about what the broader public thinks of Mr. Obama’s policies.
奥巴马的助手预测，周二的选举结束后会出现大量的相关推测，即愤怒、不满的选民试图向奥巴马传达什么信息。白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在周一解释称，由于参议员竞选最为激烈的州中有很多都是保守州，奥巴马参与2012年总统竞选时曾在这些州失利，这些竞争的结果不会在很大程度上说明广大公众对奥巴马的政策的想法。