There are many negative things you can say about Paul Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee and the G.O.P.’s de facto intellectual leader. But you have to admit that he’s a very articulate guy, an expert at sounding as if he knows what he’s talking about.
关于众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席、共和党事实上的智慧领袖保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)，我们能说出不少负面的东西。但你得承认，他是个长于表达的人，他的本事是能让别人觉得他知道自己在说什么。
So it’s comical, in a way, to see Mr. Ryan trying to explain away some recent remarks in which he attributed persistent poverty to a “culture, in our inner cities in particular, of men not working and just generations of men not even thinking about working.” He was, he says, simply being “inarticulate.” How could anyone suggest that it was a racial dog-whistle? Why, he even cited the work of serious scholars — people like Charles Murray, most famous for arguing that blacks are genetically inferior to whites. Oh, wait.
因此，看到瑞安先生为近来的一些言论作辩解的样子，就显得有些滑稽了，他把持续性贫困的原因归结于一种“文化，尤其是在我们的老城区，男人不工作，一代又一代的男人，对工作的事想都不会去想。”他说他只是“没说清楚”。你怎么能说这是暗中表达种族主义思想呢？你看，他甚至都引用了严肃学者的研究——例如查尔斯·穆雷(Charles Murray)这样的人物，最著名的论断是黑人在基因上劣于白人。哦，等一下。
Just to be clear, there’s no evidence that Mr. Ryan is personally a racist, and his dog-whistle may not even have been deliberate. But it doesn’t matter. He said what he said because that’s the kind of thing conservatives say to each other all the time. And why do they say such things? Because American conservatism is still, after all these years, largely driven by claims that liberals are taking away your hard-earned money and giving it to Those People.
得明确一点，没有任何证据表明瑞安先生本人是个种族主义者，他甚至不见得在有意摆弄隐语。但这无关紧要。他能说出这番话来，是因为这就是保守派私下里整天在说的。为什么他们要这么说？因为他们认为自由派要抢走你的血汗钱，送给“那些人”，这么多年过去了，美国保守主义思维的出发点很大程度上依然是这个。
Indeed, race is the Rosetta Stone that makes sense of many otherwise incomprehensible aspects of U.S. politics.
种族的确是一块罗塞塔石碑(Rosetta Stone)，可以帮助你理解美国政治中许多原本无法理解的东西。
We are told, for example, that conservatives are against big government and high spending. Yet even as Republican governors and state legislatures block the expansion of Medicaid, the G.O.P. angrily denounces modest cost-saving measures for Medicare. How can this contradiction be explained? Well, what do many Medicaid recipients look like — and I’m talking about the color of their skin, not the content of their character — and how does that compare with the typical Medicare beneficiary? Mystery solved.
比如保守派据说是反对大政府和高支出的。然而，就在共和党州长和州议员们阻止联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)扩大的同时，共和党却对联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的适度削减成本措施表达了愤怒的谴责。这种自相矛盾该作何解释？好吧，看看很多联邦医疗补助的受益者都是什么样的人——我是说皮肤的颜色，不是内在特征——和典型的联邦医疗保险受益人有什么区别？谜底揭晓了。
Or we’re told that conservatives, the Tea Party in particular, oppose handouts because they believe in personal responsibility, in a society in which people must bear the consequences of their actions. Yet it’s hard to find angry Tea Party denunciations of huge Wall Street bailouts, of huge bonuses paid to executives who were saved from disaster by government backing and guarantees. Instead, all the movement’s passion, starting with Rick Santelli’s famous rant on CNBC, has been directed against any hint of financial relief for low-income borrowers. And what is it about these borrowers that makes them such targets of ire? You know the answer.
还有，保守派，尤其是茶党，之所以反对施舍，据说是因为他们相信个人责任，一个人在社会中必须承受自己的行为所造成的后果。但我们却很少见到愤怒的茶党谴责对华尔街的大规模援助，以及给高管们的巨额奖金，那些高管是靠着政府的资助和担保得以逃脱灾难的。实际上，以里克·圣泰利(Rick Santelli)在CNBC上那场著名的咆哮为代表，这场运动最受不了的是对低收入借贷者提供资金援助，哪怕一丁点暗示都不行。这些借贷者为什么会成为众矢之的？答案你已经知道。
One odd consequence of our still-racialized politics is that conservatives are still, in effect, mobilizing against the bums on welfare even though both the bums and the welfare are long gone or never existed. Mr. Santelli’s fury was directed against mortgage relief that never actually happened. Right-wingers rage against tales of food stamp abuse that almost always turn out to be false or at least greatly exaggerated. And Mr. Ryan’s black-men-don’t-want-to-work theory of poverty is decades out of date.
我们这个依旧种族主义化的政治格局造成了一个奇怪的后果，保守派至今还在组织力量反对懒汉拿福利，尽管无论是懒汉还是福利都早已不复存在，或者从未存在过。让圣泰利怒火中烧的抵押贷款援助，其实从来没实施过。右翼人士怒斥的食品券滥用传闻，到头来几乎都证明是不实的，至少被严重夸大过。瑞安先生的“黑人不想干活”的贫困原理已经过时了几十年。
In the 1970s it was still possible to claim in good faith that there was plenty of opportunity in America, and that poverty persisted only because of cultural breakdown among African-Americans. Back then, after all, blue-collar jobs still paid well, and unemployment was low. The reality was that opportunity was much more limited than affluent Americans imagined; as the sociologist William Julius Wilson has documented, the flight of industry from urban centers meant that minority workers literally couldn’t get to those good jobs, and the supposed cultural causes of poverty were actually effects of that lack of opportunity. Still, you could understand why many observers failed to see this.
要在上世纪70年代，我们还可以问心无愧地说美国存在着大把的机会，而顽固的贫困完全是因为非裔美国人的文化破产。毕竟那时候蓝领工作的薪水还很不错，失业率很低。真实的情况是，机会远没有美国富人想象的那么多；正如社会学家威廉·朱利叶斯·威尔逊(William Julius Wilson)所证实的，工业撤离城市中心意味着，少数族裔工人是真的没法前往那些好工作的场所，所谓贫困的文化根源，实际上是缺乏机会的后果。不过完全可以理解为什么有许多观察人士没能看到这一点。
But over the past 40 years good jobs for ordinary workers have disappeared, not just from inner cities but everywhere: adjusted for inflation, wages have fallen for 60 percent of working American men. And as economic opportunity has shriveled for half the population, many behaviors that used to be held up as demonstrations of black cultural breakdown — the breakdown of marriage, drug abuse, and so on — have spread among working-class whites too.
然而，在过去40年里，给普通工人的好工作已经消失了，不只是在老城区，任何地方都找不到：排除通胀因素后，美国男性劳动者的薪资已经下降了60%。经济机遇的萎缩影响到全美一半的人口，有许多原本作为黑人文化破产之明证的行为——婚姻破裂、药物滥用等等——已经可以在劳动阶层的白人中间看到。