KHARTOUM, Sudan — The United States has demanded negotiations. Uganda has threatened to intervene. China has called for an immediate cease-fire.
苏丹喀土穆——美国要求进行谈判。乌干达威胁要出手干预。中国则呼吁双方立即停火。
The conflict in South Sudan has attracted attention from around the world, but nowhere are leaders watching the crisis with more interest — and more at stake — than here in the country’s longstanding rival, Sudan.
南苏丹的冲突引起世界各国的关注，然而，没有哪个国家的领导人比苏丹领导人更关注这场危机了，危机对这个南苏丹的长期对手来说，有更多的利害攸关。
Before South Sudan voted to break away from the north and form its own country in 2011, the two sides had been locked in decades of civil war that claimed the lives of more than two million people. But their division did not sever all ties. The oil that both rely on continues to flow northward from South Sudan’s fields to Sudan’s refineries, linking the two foes in a rocky but crucial economic marriage.
南苏丹在2011年投票表决脱离北部、建立自己的国家之前，双方曾进行了长达数十年的内战，内战夺走了200多万人的生命。但是，南北分离没有切断所有的联系。双方都依赖的石油继续从南苏丹的油田流到苏丹的炼油厂，石油是这两个宿敌之间波折不断、却又至关重要的经济联姻。
The recent fighting in South Sudan has disrupted oil production, with foreign workers fleeing the violent clashes in the oil-producing Unity and Upper Nile States, shutting down facilities as they departed.
最近在南苏丹发生的战斗已经打乱了石油生产，产油大省尤尼蒂省和上尼罗省的暴力冲突导致外国工人纷纷逃离，生产设备随着工人的离开而关停。
Neither side can afford to lose the petroleum revenues they both depend on, which may explain why they are discussing what would have seemed unthinkable just a few years ago: joint patrols by Sudanese and South Sudanese forces in the South’s oil-producing states.
哪一方都丢失不起双方共同依赖的石油收入，这也许可以解释为什么他们正在商讨一件几年前不可想象的事情：组织苏丹部队和南苏丹部队联合巡逻南苏丹的产油省。
“Sudan and South Sudan are in consultations about the deployment of a mixed force to protect the oil fields in the South,” Ali Ahmed Karti, Sudan’s foreign minister, told reporters in Khartoum on Monday. In addition to the potential joint force to protect the oil areas, he said, 900 Sudanese technicians were being sent to the oil-rich areas of South Sudan — at the South’s request, no less.
苏丹外长(Ali Ahmed Karti)周一在喀土穆对记者说，“苏丹和南苏丹正在就部署混合部队保护南苏丹油田一事进行磋商。”他说，除了可能组建保护油田地区的联合力量外，苏丹正在派遣900人的工程师队伍，前往石油资源丰富的南苏丹地区。而这居然是在南苏丹的请求之下。
His comments came after President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan flew on Monday to the South Sudanese capital, Juba, to discuss the crisis that is tearing the South apart. The high-level delegation included Sudan’s ministers of defense, foreign relations and oil, as well as the head of intelligence. “We agreed to the dividing of Sudan into two countries for peace, and our conviction is that armed activities do not solve problems,” Mr. Bashir told reporters at a news conference in Juba. “It is important to sit at the negotiating table and reach an agreement.”
他发表这番评论前，苏丹总统奥马尔·哈桑·巴希尔(Omar Hassan al-Bashir)已于周一飞往南苏丹首都朱巴，探讨这场分裂南苏丹的危机。他率领的高级代表团成员包括苏丹国防部长、外交部长、石油部长，以及情报方面的主管。巴希尔在朱巴举行的新闻发布会上对记者说，“为了和平，我们同意把苏丹划分成两个国家，我们的信念是，武装行动解决不了问题。重要的是坐在谈判桌前达成协议。”
Sudan has a great deal at stake if the fighting in South Sudan continues to take a toll on oil production, and with it transit and refining fees. There has been a lot of domestic fallout in Sudan from the billions of dollars in oil revenues lost after the South’s independence. The way that the government here in Sudan’s capital, Khartoum, ultimately tilts could well change direction the entire conflict in the South takes.
如果南苏丹的战斗继续给石油生产带来重创，从而影响石油运输和精炼的收入，那么苏丹也会危在旦夕。自从南苏丹独立以来，苏丹失去了数十亿美元的石油收入，由此造成了大量的国内问题。位于苏丹首都喀土穆的政府最终的处理问题倾向，很可能会改变南苏丹冲突的全局走向。
“President Bashir’s trip shows how concerned both Khartoum and Juba are about the oil,” said John Ryle, director of the Rift Valley Institute and a professor of anthropology at Bard College. “Control of the border and restoring the flow of oil are likely to be Khartoum’s two priorities.”
东非裂谷研究所(Rift Valley Institute)所长、巴德学院(Bard College)教授约翰·莱尔(John Ryle)说，“巴希尔总统此行显示了苏丹和南苏丹政府对石油有多关心。控制边境和恢复石油流动很可能是喀土穆方面的两个优先议题。”
Khartoum had already endured waves of street protests in September after the government, in an effort to compensate for the loss of oil revenue, stopped subsidizing gasoline, which nearly doubled its price.
去年9月，喀土穆曾经历了一轮又一轮的街头抗议浪潮，此前苏丹政府停止了汽油补贴，为的是弥补石油收入的损失，这导致汽油价格几乎涨了一倍。
The recent fighting in South Sudan has only made matters worse for Sudan. On the black market here, the American dollar has risen to new heights against the Sudanese pound amid fears that an oil shutdown looms in the near future.
南苏丹最近发生的战斗让苏丹的情况变得更为糟糕。在当地的黑市，由于担心油田可能在近期关闭的前景，美元兑苏丹镑的比价已升至新高。
Mr. Bashir’s visit also reflected the broader regional interest in seeing stability return to South Sudan. President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya and Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia traveled to Juba in late December to press for peace, as did President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda on a separate visit.
巴希尔的出访也反映了希望看到南苏丹恢复稳定的更广泛的地区利益。肯尼亚总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)、埃塞俄比亚总理海尔马里亚姆·德萨莱尼(Hailemariam Desalegn)于去年12月底为争取和平到访过朱巴，乌干达总统约韦里·穆塞韦尼(Yoweri Museveni)也曾另行到访。
Mr. Museveni even went so far as to warn last month that regional powers would have to “defeat” the rebels waging battles against the South Sudanese government if they did not agree to a cease-fire.
穆塞韦尼走得更远，他甚至在去年12月发出警告称，该地区的各国可能不得不出兵“击败”与南苏丹政府开战的反叛者，如果他们不同意停火的话。
“It is certainly our hope that we don’t get to the point that the region feels it needs to intervene,” a senior United States administration official said.
美国政府一位高级官员称，“我们当然不希望事态发展到该地区各方觉得自己不得不插手干预的地步。”
Regional mediators have been trying to get peace talks going between the South Sudanese government and representatives of rebel forces, through negotiations in the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa. The two sides remain deeply divided over the release of senior politicians arrested after what South Sudan’s president, Salva Kiir, described as an attempted coup by the former vice president, Riek Machar. Mr. Machar has denied the coup attempt but has repeatedly said that there will be no cease-fire until his allies are released.
地区调停者一直试图通过在埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴的协商，让南苏丹政府与反叛力量的代表进行和平谈判。但双方在释放一些高级政治人士的问题上仍有很大分歧，这些政治人士是在南苏丹总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)称前副总统里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)企图政变之后被逮捕的。马沙尔否认自己曾企图政变，但他多次表示除非自己的盟友被释放，否则不可能停火。
The current fighting in South Sudan has also raised concerns in Khartoum over security along the long, tense border between both countries. Safwat Fanous, a political science professor at the University of Khartoum, said the Sudanese government was concerned that instability in South Sudan and the nearby Central African Republic would lead to a greater flow of refugees and weapons and the creation of new regional alliances.
南苏丹目前的战斗也让喀土穆方面对两国间漫长而紧张的边境线的安全状况颇为担心。喀土穆大学的政治学教授萨夫瓦特·法努斯(Safwat Fanous)说，苏丹政府担心南苏丹以及邻近的中非共和国的不稳定局势将导致难民和武器更多地涌入边境地区，从而产生新的地区联盟。
Khartoum is already confronting an insurgency on its side of the border, in South Kordofan and Blue Nile. “It may lead to a situation” where the insurgents in Sudan seek to ally themselves with the rebels in South Sudan, Mr. Fanous said.
喀土穆方面已经在自己的境内面临南科尔多凡省和青尼罗省的叛乱。法努斯说，“这可能会导致一种局面”使苏丹的叛乱者寻求与南苏丹的叛乱者建立联盟。