Republicans may seem like ultimate Scrooges. Many want to slash food stamps, unemployment benefits and just about any program that helps the needy.
共和党人似乎把守财奴精神推向了极致。很多人想要砍掉食品券、失业救济，以及其他所有对穷人有帮助的项目。
So they know nothing about poverty, right?
那么他们是完全不了解贫穷，对吗？
Wrong. Actually, conservatives have been proved right about three big ideas of social policy. Liberals may grimace, but hear me out on these points:
不对。事实上，保守派有三个社会政策大观念经证明是正确的。自由派可能要做鬼脸了，但是且听我慢慢道来：
STRONG FAMILIES Conservatives highlight the primacy of family and argue that family breakdown exacerbates poverty, and they’re right. Children raised by single parents are three times as likely to live in poverty as kids in two-parent homes.
强化家庭 保守派强调家庭的首要地位，提出家庭破裂会令贫困加剧，这是对的。单亲家庭的孩子陷入贫困的几率是双亲家庭的三倍。
One historic mistake by liberals in social policy was the condemnation of Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s warning in 1965 of the breakdown of the African-American family. He wasn’t racist; he was prescient, for the same breakdown has since occurred in white-working-class families as well.
自由派在社会政策上有一个由来已久的错误，就是对丹尼尔·帕特里克·莫伊尼汉(Daniel Patrick Moynihan)在1965年提出的非裔美国人家庭崩溃的警告，他们抱着斥责态度。他不是种族主义者；他是有先见之明的，因为白人工薪阶层家庭此后也出现了同样的崩溃。
Yet if Republicans were shown to be right in their diagnosis of family breakdown as a central problem, they have mostly been proved wrong in their prescriptions. Particularly under President George W. Bush, millions of dollars were spent on marriage promotion initiatives, and follow-up studies show that overwhelmingly they failed to have an impact. Abstinence-only sex education is another demonstrated failure.
然而，如果说共和党人把家庭崩溃作为核心问题的分析是正确的，那么他们开出的处方经证明却大多是错的。尤其是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府在婚姻促进计划上投入大量资金，然而后续研究表明这些计划没有起到分毫作用。一味宣扬禁欲的性教育则是另一个明摆着的失败。
What does work to strengthen families and reduce out-of-wedlock births?
怎样做才能强化家庭，减少婚姻外生育？
There are no magic wands, but family-planning programs have reduced unplanned births — and 70 percent of pregnancies among unmarried women under 30 are unplanned. The Guttmacher Institute calculates that without family-planning services, the rate of unintended teen pregnancies would be 73 percent higher.
万灵药是不存在的，不过家庭规划项目的确能够减少意外生育——而30岁以下未婚先孕的女性有70%是意外怀孕的。按照古特马赫研究所(Guttmacher Institute)的估算，如果没有家庭规划服务，计划外的青少年怀孕率将升高73%。
So it’s hard to think of a more anti-family policy than the closure of family-planning clinics in states like Texas, or the two-thirds cut (after inflation) in the main federal family-planning program since 1980. That’s a national shame.
因此，在德克萨斯这样的州关闭家庭规划诊所，还有自1980年以来主要的联邦家庭规划项目预算（在通货膨胀的情况下）削减了三分之二，还能想到比这更反家庭的政策吗？这是国耻。
One landmark initiative to help in this area is the Affordable Care Act, which requires insurers to offer free long-acting contraceptives to all women. Research suggests strongly that this will reduce abortions and out-of-wedlock births, while strengthening marriage, yet Republicans are fighting this mandate.
在这个领域的一个里程碑式的项目就是《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)，这个法要求保险商向所有女性免费提供长效避孕措施。通过研究明确可以看到，这将减少堕胎和婚外生育，同时巩固婚姻，但共和党人却在反对这种强制保险。
JOB CREATION President Reagan was right when he said that the best social program is a job. Good jobs also strengthen families. Evidence has grown that jobs are important not only to our economic well-being but also to self-esteem. Indeed, long-term unemployment seems to lead to shortened life expectancy.
创造就业 里根总统说的对，最好的社会福利就是一份工作。好工作也可以强化家庭。有证据表明，就业不仅对我们的经济健康至关重要，也是自尊的关键。事实上，长期失业似乎会导致预期寿命缩短。
Two decades ago, President Clinton pushed to “end welfare as we know it.” Liberals protested that the poor would be devastated, while conservatives hailed this as an avenue out of poverty. In retrospect, neither prediction was right. Welfare reform pushed the poor into jobs, but mostly marginal jobs that rarely offered an escalator to the middle class.
20年前，克林顿总统推动“终结我们熟知的那种福利”。自由派抗议说穷人会倍受摧残，而保守派却将其奉为一条走出贫困的康庄大道。如今回头看，双方的预言都是错的。福利改革促进了穷人就业，但多数都是微不足道的工作，很难帮助他们上升至中产阶级。
So how do we get good jobs? Expansion of the earned-income tax credit. Job training for people coming out of prison. Reduced incarceration, since a prison record makes people less employable. Subsidies to hire the long-term unemployed. Vocational programs like Career Academies.
那么好工作哪里来？扩大劳动所得的税收减免。为刑满释放人员提供职业培训。减少监狱关押，因为服刑记录会降低一个人被雇用的机会。补贴雇用长期失业者的雇主。开展“职业学院”(Career Academies)这样的职业项目。
Yet these are the kinds of social policies that Democrats tend to embrace and Republicans are leery of.
然而这些正是民主党乐于支持、共和党将信将疑的那种社会政策。
SCHOOL REFORM Republicans were right to blow the whistle on broken school systems, for education in inner-city schools is the civil rights issue of the 21st century. Democrats, in cahoots with teachers’ unions and protective of a dysfunctional system, were long part of the problem.
学校改革 共和党人疾呼学校系统瘫痪是对的，内城的学校教育问题就是21世纪的民权问题。和教师工会串通一气、对一个失衡系统呵护有加的民主党人，一直以来都是问题的一部分。
Bravo to Republicans for protesting that teachers’ unions were sometimes protecting disastrous teachers (including, in New York City, one who passed out drunk in her classroom, with even the principal unable to rouse her). Likewise, some of the most successful schools in the inner cities have been charters in the Knowledge Is Power Program, showing what is possible even in troubled cities.
共和党人抗议教师工会有时在保护的是害人的老师（比如纽约市有名教师在课堂上醉得不省人事，连校长都叫不醒她），这一点值得赞扬。同样地，内城最成功的学校中，有一些是来自“知识就是力量项目”(Knowledge Is Power Program)的特许学校，这说明即便在一些陷入困境的城市里也是有希望的。
Yet Democrats, led by President Obama and Education Secretary Arne Duncan, are coming around, and teachers’ unions have moderated. Republicans sometimes suggest that our biggest educational problem is teachers’ unions themselves. That’s absurd. States with strong teachers’ unions in the North like Massachusetts have better schools than states in the South with weak unions.
然而，在奥巴马总统和教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)的带领下，民主党人正在醒过神来，教师工会受到了约束。共和党人有时会提出，我们教育的最大问题就在教师工会本身。那是很荒唐的。北方一些教师工会势力较大的州，比如马萨诸塞，学校的品质要优于工会势力弱的南方诸州。
Meanwhile, one of the most important evidence-backed school reforms is public preschool and home visitation for disadvantaged kids, yet Republicans are blocking any national move to universal prekindergarten (even though Republican-led states like Oklahoma are leaders in pre-K).
与此同时，在证据支持下最重要的学校改革之一是公立学前教育和有障碍儿童的家访项目，然而共和党人却正在阻止任何在全国范围内普及学前预备班（尽管像奥克拉荷马这样由共和党领导的州是预备班的先行者）的举措。