Alarmed by the harsh attacks and negative tone of their presidential contest, broad majorities of Republican primary voters view their party as divided and a source of embarrassment and think that the campaign is more negative than in the past, according to a New York Times/CBS News national poll released on Monday.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)周一发布的全国民调显示，共和党选民对本党总统初选中的尖锐攻击和负面基调感到焦虑，大多数人都认为该党出现了分裂，让自己感到难堪，这次竞选比以往历次都更为负面。
The dismay has not set back their leading candidate, however. While about four in 10 Republican voters disapprove of how Donald J. Trump has handled the violence at some of his rallies, Mr. Trump has also picked up the most support recently as several rivals have left the race. Forty-six percent of primary voters said they would like to see Mr. Trump as the party’s nominee, more than at any point since he declared his candidacy in June. Twenty-six percent favored Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, and 20 percent backed Gov. John Kasich of Ohio.
但是，这种沮丧并没有对该党初选中领先的候选人造成打击。虽然约有四成的共和党选民不赞成唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在自己的一些集会上处理暴力事件的方式，但是特朗普近来依然获得了最多的支持，他的几个对手也退出了竞选。初选选民中的46%表示，他们希望特朗普成为该党提名人，创下他去年6月宣布参选以来的最高记录。26%的人支持德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)，20%的人支持俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)。
Fully three-quarters of Republican primary voters expect Mr. Trump to be their party’s nominee.
足有四分之三的共和党初选选民预计，特朗普将成为该党提名人。
Compared with Republicans, far more Democratic primary voters see their side as unified and say the campaign has made them feel mostly proud of their party.
与共和党相比，远远更多的民主党初选选民认为，本党团结一致，并称竞选过程大多数时候让他们感到自豪。
Yet Democrats are more sharply divided over their candidates. Hillary Clinton has only a slight edge over Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, and growing numbers of Democratic primary voters are more excited about Mr. Sanders as their possible nominee. In the past month, the level of enthusiasm for Mrs. Clinton among Democratic voters has fallen eight percentage points to 40 percent, while it has grown for Mr. Sanders by 12 percentage points to 56 percent. Still, more than seven in 10 Democratic voters expect Mrs. Clinton to win the nomination.
然而，民主党内对候选人的看法分歧更大。希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)相对于佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的优势很微弱，而民主党初选选民对桑德斯成为提名人更加激动。在过去一个月中，民主党选民对克林顿的热情下降了八个百分点，降至40%，而桑德斯上升了12个百分点，升至56%。但是，仍然有十分之七的民主党选民预计，克林顿会赢得提名。
Mr. Sanders performs slightly better than Mrs. Clinton in hypothetical general-election matchups against Mr. Trump: The senator beats the real estate developer by 15 percentage points, while Mrs. Clinton prevails by 10 points. Mrs. Clinton holds a narrow edge over Mr. Cruz, while Mr. Kasich is the only Republican who has an advantage over Mrs. Clinton in November.
在假想的与特朗普的大选较量中，桑德斯的表现略高于克林顿：参议员桑德斯以15个百分点的优势击败了房地产开发商特朗普，而克林顿的优势只有10个百分点。克林顿相对于克鲁兹优势不大，而卡西奇是唯一能在11月的大选中领先于克林顿的共和党人。
With the state-by-state nominating contests about half over, Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton have pulled solidly ahead of their opponents in delegates. Yet they have also emerged as the cause of the most skepticism and negativity from the electorate nationwide as well as in their own parties.
逐州开展的提名大战已经过半，特朗普和克林顿获得的代表数稳超对手。然而，不管是在全国选民中还是本党内部，他们都引发了怀疑和消极情绪。
Half of all voters said they would be scared if Mr. Trump were elected president, and another 19 percent said they would be concerned. Mrs. Clinton does not fare much better: Thirty-five percent of all voters said they would be scared if Mrs. Clinton won in November, and 21 percent said they would be concerned.
在全体选民中，有一半人表示，如果特朗普当选总统，他们会感到恐慌，另有19%人表示会感到担心。克林顿的表现也不相上下：在全体选民中，有35%的人表示，如果她在11月获胜自己会感到恐慌，21%的人表示会感到担心。
Charles Shank, 65, a Kasich supporter, said in a follow-up interview that he was disconcerted by Mr. Trump’s personality and “childish games” and feared that he would not be an effective commander in chief or negotiator with Congress.
65岁的查尔斯·尚克(Charles Shank)是卡西奇的支持者。他在接受后续采访时说，特朗普的个性和“幼稚的游戏”令他感到不安，他担心在主持大局并与国会谈判时，特朗普都不会称职。