BERKELEY, Calif. — Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said Wednesday that President Obama should be particularly wary of domestic spying, given the government’s history of eavesdropping on civil rights leaders like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., injecting the issue of race into the contentious debate over surveillance.
加州伯克利——肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)周三称，奥巴马总统应该特别关注国内的秘密监视活动，因为美国政府曾对牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)等民权领袖进行监听，这一说法在关于监听的激烈争论中引入了种族问题。
“I find it ironic that the first African-American president has without compunction allowed this vast exercise of raw power by the N.S.A.,” Mr. Paul said in an address at the University of California, Berkeley.
保罗在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的讲话中说，“美国第一任非洲裔总统竟然会毫不愧疚地允许国家安全局(NSA)如此滥用职权，真是一种讽刺。”
“Certainly J. Edgar Hoover’s illegal spying on Martin Luther King and others in the civil rights movement should give us all pause,” he said. “Now if President Obama were here, he would say he’s not J. Edgar Hoover, which is certainly true. But power must be restrained because no one knows who will next hold that power.”
“当然，J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)对马丁·路德·金和其他民权运动人士的非法监视应该引起我们的反思，”他说，“现在，如果奥巴马总统在这里，他肯定会说自己并非J·埃德加·胡佛，这当然是确定无疑的。但是，因为没人知道下一任掌权者会是谁，所以权力必须受到限制。”
Mr. Paul’s remarks were part of his effort to bring his libertarian brand of conservatism to audiences in less friendly territory for Republicans. Here at a campus that has been a wellspring of American liberalism, he told students he was a defender of the rights they hold dear. He tried to be colloquial and informal.  
保罗这样说，在某种程度上是为了向对共和党并不那么友好的地方的听众传达自己贴着自由意志论标签的保守主义。这所学校一直是美国自由主义的源泉，他告诉这里的学生，他要捍卫学生们所珍视的权利。他试图让自己的演讲显得通俗而随意。
“I believe what you do on a cellphone is none of their damn business,” Mr. Paul said in one of the lines that drew the most applause.
保罗说，“我认为你拿手机做了什么，根本不关他们屁事。”保罗的发言时常引来了阵阵掌声，这就是其中一句。
His stopover here may have seemed like a wrong turn on Mr. Paul’s cross-country speaking tour, hardly the most orthodox place to rally support for a politician who won the presidential straw poll this month at CPAC, the annual gathering of die-hard conservative activists.
目前，保罗正在全国各地进行巡回演讲，他选择这里似乎是个错误。他本月在保守派政治行动会议(CPAC)的总统候选人民调中胜出，对他而言，这里恐怕不是寻求支持的最佳地点。CPAC是忠实保守派活动人士的年度集会。
But Mr. Paul may have known his audience better than it appeared. The title of his speech, “The N.S.A. vs. Your Privacy,” was carefully tailored as the latest piece of a grander strategy by the senator to broaden his appeal to people — particularly younger ones — who have largely written the Republican Party off.
然而，保罗似乎比表面上更了解自己的听众。这个标题为“NSA vs. 你的隐私”(The NSA vs. Your Privacy)的演讲经过精心编排，是保罗为了拉拢民众而采取的宏大战略中最新的一部分。他想吸引的是基本上不愿给共和党投票的人，尤其是年轻人。
He seemed at ease, reclining in a chair on stage as he answered questions from a student moderator. Wearing baggy bluejeans, an oxford shirt with a red tie and cowboy boots, he was more dressed down than some of the Berkeley College Republicans who were there to welcome him. 
他似乎很放松，坐在椅子上向后靠着回答一名学生主持的提问。他穿着宽松的蓝色牛仔裤、一件牛津布衬衫，打着红色领带，脚上还蹬着牛仔靴，与那些前来欢迎他的共和党大学生相比，他的穿着更加随意。
Mr. Paul made a reference to the band Pink Floyd and even compared the Republican Party to bad pizza — that staple of college sustenance.
保罗提到了平克·佛洛伊德(Pink Floyd)乐队，甚至还把共和党比作坏披萨——这是大学食物的主要组成部分。
“Remember Domino’s finally admitted they had bad crust?” he asked, drawing chuckles from the audience as he tried to draw an analogy to how Republicans should adapt. “We need a different kind of party,” he said, noting that Republicans “have to either evolve, adapt or die — it’s a pretty harsh thing.”
“还记得达美乐(Domino)最后终于承认他们的面饼不好吗？”他问道，观众席传来笑声。他这么说是为了暗示共和党需要与时俱进。他说，“我们需要一个不同的政党。”他还指出共和党“要么改进、适应，要么就会灭亡——这是一个非常严肃的问题”。
Mr. Paul tried to connect with students who say they are deeply concerned about the government’s tracking of their private electronic communications.
有些学生表示非常担心政府会窃听他们的私人电子通讯，这些学生就是保罗试图拉拢的对象。
Saying the nation’s intelligence apparatus was “drunk with power,” he said that warrantless domestic surveillance should be a matter of concern to people of all political persuasions.
他说，美国的情报机构“醉心于权力”，所有政治立场的人都应该关注未经许可的国内监控。
“I’m not here to tell you what to be,” Mr. Paul told the crowd of several hundred who crammed into an auditorium on campus. “But I am here to tell you, though, that your rights, especially your right to privacy, is under assault.”
“我来这里并不是想告诉你们要怎么做，”保罗对挤在校园里一座礼堂中的几百名学生说。“但是我来这里是要告诉你，你们的权利，特别是隐私权受到了侵犯。”
More than most of those Republicans considering a run for the party’s 2016 presidential nomination, Mr. Paul has spent a considerable amount of time courting African-Americans and Hispanics with a message of inclusion and an insistence that his party must drastically change or risk alienating minorities for a generation or more. He has also tested out his free-market economic policies on audiences in traditionally Democratic but economically depressed communities like Detroit. And some Republicans say he is targeting one of the party’s potential growth wings, that of younger, libertarian-leaning voters.
与大多数考虑参加2016年总统提名角逐的共和党人相比，保罗在讨好非裔和西语裔美国人方面所花的时间要多得多，他表达了包容的态度，并坚持认为共和党必须进行彻底的改变，否则就会面临在这一代甚至未来数代疏远少数族裔的危险。他还考察了底特律等地的听众对他的自由市场经济政策的态度——这些地区传统上都支持民主党，但是目前经济凋敝。一些共和党人说，他当前的目标是共和党有增长潜力的人群，即倾向于自由意志的年轻选民。
His appearance was another example of Mr. Paul’s willingness to embrace risk. Few college campuses are as associated with the American left as Berkeley is, and it has often been a cauldron of liberal discontent, better known for featuring the anti-Vietnam speeches of Dick Gregory and Dr. Benjamin Spock than for hosting a man elected to the United States Senate on the energy of the Tea Party.
保罗出现在这里，也说明他愿意承担风险。很少有哪所大学像加州大学伯克利分校一样，与美国左翼联系密切，而且这所大学一直是自由派不满情绪的摇篮。这里更为人熟知的活动是迪克·格雷戈里(Dick Gregory)和本杰明·斯波克博士(Dr. Benjamin Spock)反对越南战争的演讲，而不是招待一个凭借茶党的力量被选入美国参议院的人。