In an extraordinary public rebuke of Donald Trump's campaign, Mitt Romney and John McCain, the last two Republican presidential nominees, denounced Trump in forceful terms on Thursday and warned that his election could put the United States and even its democratic political system in peril.
周四，过往两届大选的共和党总统候选人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)对唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)进行了不同寻常的公开指责，他们用有力的言辞谴责特朗普，并警告，如果他当选，可能会将美国，甚至是其民主政治体系置于险境。
Offering himself as a bulwark against Trump's march to the nomination, Romney laid out a precise and lengthy case against Trump, lacerating his business dealings, his erratic pronouncements on national security and demeaning treatment of women, minorities and the disabled.
罗姆尼把自己当成了阻击特朗普成为共和党总统提名人的防御堡垒，对后者展开了精确而充分的打击，抨击了他的商业交易，他对国家安全事务反复无常的声明表态，以及他对女性、少数族裔和残疾人的贬低。
Romney warned that Trump's nomination would be calamitous for the Republican Party and, quoting John Adams, even suggested it could be suicidal for the country.
罗姆尼警告，特朗普如果成为总统提名人选，将是共和党的一场灾难。他甚至借约翰·亚当斯(John Adams)的话暗示，这对美国而言，相当于自杀。
Evoking the specter of totalitarianism, Trump, he said, was amplifying a “brand of anger that has led other nations into the abyss.”
他表示，特朗普正在唤起极权主义的幽灵，是在放大“一股曾让其他国家陷入深渊的愤怒情绪。”
“His domestic policies would lead to recession,” Romney said. “His foreign policies would make America and the world less safe. He has neither the temperament nor the judgment to be president.”
“他的国内政策将导致经济衰退，”罗姆尼说。“他的外交政策会让美国和整个世界更加不安全。他既没有当总统的涵养，也缺乏相应的判断力。”
Romney's speech cast Trump as an unacceptable candidate under any circumstances, labeling him as “a phony” and “a fraud” who could not be trusted with the nation's highest office.
罗姆尼的发言将特朗普塑造成无论如何都让人无法接受的候选人形象，给他打上“冒牌货”和“骗子”的标签，不是能将白宫事务托付与之的人选。
McCain, once a rival of Romney's, effectively linked arms with him soon after his address, saying that he shared Romney's dismay about Trump's ascent. Alluding to a public letter released on Thursday by dozens of conservative national security leaders, who vowed never to support Trump, McCain echoed their concerns about Trump's “uninformed and indeed dangerous statements on national security issues.”
麦凯恩曾经是罗姆尼的政敌，这次却引人注目地在后者发言结束后不久和他并肩而立。他表示，对于特朗普在选举中一路蹿升，他和罗姆尼一样感到不安。麦凯恩还间接提到几十名保守派国家安全负责人周四发布的一封公开信——这些人在信中发誓永远不会支持特朗普，并表示他和这些人一样，也对特朗普“就国家安全问题所做的无知而又危险的言论”表示担忧。
The onslaught against Trump appeared aimed at sowing new doubts among voters about a man who has taken firm command of the Republican presidential race, and stiffening the resolve of mainstream Republicans to reject Trump.
对特朗普的猛烈攻击，似乎旨在选民中散布对一个完全掌控了共和党总统提名人选竞逐的人的新疑虑，同时坚定主流共和党人反对特朗普的决心。
Gov. Chris Christie, in New Jersey, defended Trump and his own decision to support him. He said he had no problem with Romney's condemnation of Trump, but that the Republican Party should not meddle in the primary election process.
新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)为特朗普及自己支持他的决定进行了辩护。他表示，他对罗姆尼谴责特朗普没有意见，但共和党不应该插手预选程序。