WASHINGTON — Congressional Republicans conceded defeat on Wednesday in their bitter budget fight with President Obama over the new health care law as the House and Senate approved last-minute legislation ending a disruptive 16-day government shutdown and extending federal borrowing power to avert a financial default with potentially worldwide economic repercussions.
华盛顿——本周三，美国国会的共和党人承认，已经在和奥巴马总统就新医改法案展开的艰苦预算斗争中遭遇失败，因为参众两院在最后关头批准了法案，终结了长达16日的政府停摆乱局，延长了联邦政府的举债权限，由此避免了政府的财政违约，后者有可能会引发全球性的经济震荡。
With the Treasury Department warning that it could run out of money to pay national obligations within a day, the Senate voted overwhelmingly Wednesday evening, 81 to 18, to approve a proposal hammered out by the chamber’s Republican and Democratic leaders after the House on Tuesday was unable to move forward with any resolution. The House followed suit a few hours later, voting 285 to 144 to approve the Senate plan, which would fund the government through Jan. 15 and raise the debt limit through Feb. 7.
周二，众议院没能拿出任何决议。美国财政部警告称，财政部可能会在一日内花光所有资金，无力付清国家债务，在此背景下，周三晚间，参议院以81票支持、18票反对的压倒性投票结果批准了由本院两党领袖苦心拟定的提案。几个小时之后，众议院依样跟进，以285票支持、144票反对的投票结果批准了参议院的提案，该提案将把给政府拨款的期限延长至明年1月15日，把提高债务上限的期限延长至明年2月7日。
Most House Republicans opposed the bill, but 87 voted to support it. The breakdown showed that Republican leaders were willing to violate their informal rule against advancing bills that do not have majority Republican support in order to end the shutdown. All 198 Democrats voting supported the measure.
大多数众议院共和党人反对这一提案，但仍有87人投票支持。这种分化表明，为了结束政府停摆的局面，共和党领袖愿意违反不成文的党内规则，按照该规则，对没有获得多数共和党人支持的推进中提案，该党议员要投票予以反对。198名民主党人全部投票支持该提案。
Mr. Obama, speaking shortly after the Senate vote, said he would sign the measure as he soon as he received it. While he praised Congress, he said he hoped the damaging standoff would not be repeated.
参议院投票不久后，奥巴马发表讲话说，接到法案后，他会立刻签署。他赞扬了国会，并且表示，希望破坏性的僵局不会再次发生。
“We’ve got to get out of the habit of governing by crisis,” said Mr. Obama, who urged Congress to proceed not only with new budget negotiations, but with immigration changes and a farm bill as well. “We could get all these things done even this year, if everybody comes together in a spirit of, how are we going to move this country forward and put the last three weeks behind us?”
奥巴马说，“我们必须摆脱用危机治国的习惯。”他敦促国会推进新的预算谈判，同时还要推进移民改革和一项农业提案。“如果所有人都齐心协力，着眼于如何才能推动国家前进，如何把过去三周的事情抛在脑后，所有这些事情甚至可以在今年年内完成。”
After the House vote, officials announced that the federal government would reopen on Thursday and that federal employees should return to work.
众议院投票之后，官员们宣布，联邦政府将在周四重新运转，联邦雇员应该重返工作岗位。
The result of the impasse that threatened the nation’s credit rating was a near total defeat for Republican conservatives, who had engineered the budget impasse as a way to strip the new health care law of funding even as registration for benefits opened Oct. 1 or, failing that, to win delays in putting the program into place.
对共和党保守派来说，这场危及国家主权信用评级的僵局带来的只是几近完败的结果。保守派一手促成了此次的预算僵局，希望借此撤销对新的医改方案注资，哪怕福利登记手续从10月1日就已开始，这个目的达不到的话，他们的希望就是把法案的落实时间延后。
The shutdown sent Republican poll ratings plunging, cost the government billions of dollars and damaged the nation’s international credibility. Mr. Obama refused to compromise, leaving Republican leaders to beg him to talk, and to fulminate when he refused. For all that, Republicans got a slight tightening of income verification rules for Americans accessing new health insurance exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act.
此次政府停摆让共和党的民意调查评分暴跌，让政府承担了数十亿美元的成本，损伤了美国的国际信誉。奥巴马拒绝妥协，共和党领袖不得不乞求他参与谈判，被他拒绝后就恶言相向。付出了这么大的代价，共和党得到的结果就是，政府会略略收紧对进入新的医疗保险交易所的美国人的收入审核规定，交易所是《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)设立的。
“We fought the good fight,” said Speaker John A. Boehner, who has struggled to control conservative faction in the House, in an interview with a Cincinnati radio station. “We just didn’t win.”
参议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)在接受辛辛那提某电台的采访时说，“我们打了个漂亮仗。只不过没有赢。”为了控制众议院的保守派系，他使尽了浑身解数。
In a brief closed session with his Republican rank and file, Mr. Boehner told members to hold their heads high, go home, get some rest and think about how they could work better as a team.
在和共和党党员举行的一场简短闭门会议上，博纳要党员们昂起头回家去，稍事休息，同时思考一下，作为一个团队，如何才能更好地工作。
Two weeks of relative cohesion broke down into near chaos on Tuesday when Republican leaders failed twice to unite their troops behind a last-gasp effort to prevent a default on their own terms. By Wednesday, House conservatives were accusing more moderate Republicans of undercutting their position. Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a leading Republican voice for ending the fight, said Congress should have passed a bill to fund the government without policy strings attached weeks ago.
过去两周内形成的相对凝聚力在周二土崩瓦解，几乎导致了一场混乱，当时，共和党领袖两次试图把队伍团结起来，通过最后一搏来防止他们自身的违约式崩溃，但均以失败告终。到周三，众议院保守派指责那些较为温和的共和党人削弱了他们的立场。宾夕法尼亚州众议员查利·登特(Charlie Dent)说，国会应该通过一项提案给政府拨款，该提案不应带有几周之前附加的政策条件。登特是共和党内主张终止争斗的主要声音之一。
“That’s essentially what we’re doing now,” Mr. Dent said. “People can blame me all they want, but I was correct in my analysis and I’d say a lot of those folks were not correct in theirs.”
登特说，“这基本上就是我们现在正在做的。人们想怎么指责我都行，可我觉得自己是对的。我敢说，很多人自己都觉得自己不对。”
Under the agreement to reopen the government, the House and Senate are directed to hold talks and reach accord by Dec. 13 on a long-term blueprint for tax and spending policies over the next decade. Mr. Obama said consistently through the standoff that he was willing to have a wide-ranging budget negotiation once the government was reopened and the debt limit raised.
重启政府的协议指示参众两院举行谈话，在今年12月13日之前就长期的税收计划和今后十年的支出政策达成一致。奥巴马说，在僵局持续期间，他的态度始终如一，那就是只要政府重启，债务上限获得提高，他就愿意进行范围广泛的预算协商。
Mr. Boehner and his leadership team had long felt that they needed to allow their restive conference to pitch a battle over the president’s health care law, a fight that had been brewing almost since the law was passed in 2010. Now, they hope the fever has broken, and they can negotiate on issues where they think they have the upper hand, such as spending cuts and changes to entitlement programs.
长期以来，博纳和他的领导团队一直觉得，必须允许倔强的共和党人向总统的医改法案开战。几乎是从法案于2010年获得通过开始，这场斗争就已开始酝酿。如今，他们希望回归常态，能就一些问题进行谈判。他们认为自己在这些问题上占据优势，比如削减开支和改革福利计划。
But there were no guarantees that Congress would not be at loggerheads again by mid-January and there is deep skepticism in both parties that Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, who will lead the budget negotiations, can bridge the chasm between them.
然而，谁也不能保证，国会到1月中旬不会再起冲突。此外，两党都十分怀疑，领导预算谈判的威斯康星州众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和华盛顿州参议员帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)将无法跨越彼此之间的分歧。
“This moves us into the next phase of the same debate,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat. “Our hope is now that Speaker Boehner and his caucus have played out their scenario with a tragic outcome, perhaps they’ll be willing to be more constructive.”
“这会促使我们进入同一场争论的下一个阶段，”民主党二号人物、伊利诺伊州参议员理查德·J·德宾(Richard J.Durbin)说，“我们眼下的希望是，既然博纳议长和他的核心团队已经使完了自己的招数，取得了灾难性的成果，或许他们会愿意采取更有建设性的立场。”
As Republican lawmakers left the closed meeting Wednesday, some were already thinking of the next fight.
开完周三的闭门会议之后，一些共和党议员已经在考虑下一场战斗了。
“I’ll vote against it,” said Representative John C. Fleming, Republican of Louisiana, referring to the Senate plan. “But that will get us into Round 2. See, we’re going to start this all over again.”
“我会投反对票，”说到参议院那份计划的时候，路易斯安那州共和党众议员约翰·C·弗莱明(John C. Fleming)说，“不过，那份计划会让我们进入第二回合。看吧，我们会重头再来的。”
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader who was instrumental in ending the crisis, stressed that under the deal he had negotiated with the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the across-the-board budget cuts extracted in the 2011 fiscal showdown remained in place over the objections of some Democrats, a slim reed that not even he claimed as a significant victory.
对结束危机发挥了重要作用的肯塔基州参议员、共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)强调，根据他与多数派领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)通过谈判达成的协议，尽管部分民主党人反对，但2011年财政较量中削减的预算不会得到恢复。就连麦康奈尔自己也没有称之为重大胜利。
The deal, Mr. McConnell said, “is far less than many of us hoped for, quite frankly, but it’s far better than what some had sought.”
麦康奈尔说，该协议“坦率地说，远未满足我们当中许多人的希望，但也远好于一些人一直追求的结果”。
“Now it’s time for Republicans to unite behind other crucial goals,” he added.
“现在共和党人是时候为其他一些关键目标团结在一起了，”他补充说。
Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, took a swipe at his fellow Republican senators, Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, as well as House members who linked government financing to defunding the health care law, which is financed by its own designated revenues and spending cuts.
北卡罗来纳州共和党参议员理查德·伯尔(Richard Burr)则归咎于得克萨斯州共和党人泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)、犹他州共和党人迈克·李(Mike Lee)以及其他一些众议院成员，这些人把继续向政府拨款的决定和破坏医疗法案挂起钩来，而医改法案的资金源自政府的应得收入和支出削减。
“Let’s just say sometimes learning what can’t be accomplished is an important long-term thing,” Mr. Burr said, “and hopefully for some of the members they’ve learned it’s impossible to defund mandatory programs by shutting down the federal government.”
伯尔说，“这么说吧，有时候，了解什么事情无法做到是一件重要的长期任务。我希望某些议员已经搞明白，通过关闭联邦政府来取消资助法定法案是不可能的。”
While Mr. Cruz conceded defeat, he did not express contrition.
不过，克鲁兹虽然承认失败，但却没有表达悔悟之情。
“Unfortunately, the Washington establishment is failing to listen to the American people,” he said as he emerged from a meeting of Senate Republicans called to ratify the agreement.
克鲁兹在参议院共和党呼吁批准协议的会议上现身时说，“不幸的是，美国政府没有听取本国人民的意见。”
For hundreds of thousands of federal workers across the country furloughed from their jobs, the legislative deal meant an abrupt end to their forced vacation as the government comes back to life beginning Thursday.
对全国数十万被迫休假的联邦工作人员而言，该立法协议意味着，随着政府于周四重新开始运行，他们被迫开始的假期将会突然结束。
In a statement late Wednesday, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, made the reopening official.
在周三晚上的一份声明中，管理与预算办公室(Office of Management and Budget)主任西尔维亚·马修斯·伯维尔( Sylvia Mathews Burwell)正式宣布政府将重新开门。
“Now that the bill has passed the United States Senate and the House of Representatives, the president plans to sign it tonight and employees should expect to return to work in the morning,” she said. Employees, she added, should check news reports and the Office of Personnel Management’s Web site for updates.
她说，“既然法案已经在美国参议院和众议院获得通过，总统又计划今晚签署该法案，工作人员就应该在明天早上回来工作。”她补充说，工作人员应该关注新闻报道和员工管理办公室( Office of Personnel Management)的网站，以便获取最新消息。
For Mr. Boehner, who had failed to unite his conference around a workable plan, Wednesday’s decision to take up the Senate bill proved surprisingly free of conflict. Hard-line Republican lawmakers largely rallied around the speaker.
博纳未能让自己领导的联盟团结起来拿出一项可行计划，但事实证明，他周三支持就参议院法案进行投票的决定出人意料地没有引发冲突。强硬派共和党议员基本上都团结在这位议长周围。
Representative Raúl R. Labrador of Idaho, said he was “really proud” of how Mr. Boehner had handled the situation. “I’m more upset with my Republican conference, to be honest with you,” he said.
爱达荷州共和党众议员劳尔·R·拉夫拉多尔(Raúl R. Labrador)说，自己为博纳处理这件事的方式“深感自豪”。他还说，“说老实话，我对自己所在的共和党更失望了。”