LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Mitch McConnell, the taciturn leader of the Senate Republicans who overcame childhood polio and decades of political conflagrations to become the longest-serving senator in Kentucky’s history, cruised to re-election Tuesday night, the penultimate step toward fulfilling his decades-long dream of becoming majority leader of his chamber.
肯塔基州路易斯维尔——周二晚间，沉默寡言的参议院共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)赢得连任，这是他完成数十年来成为参议院多数党领袖的梦想的倒数第二步。麦康奈尔曾克服小儿麻痹症和数十年的政治冲突，成为肯塔基州有史以来任期最长的参议员。
Minutes after the last polls closed, The Associated Press projected Mr. McConnell as the winner. In capturing a sixth term, he turned back Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Democrat whose campaign as the anti-obstructionist, fueled by the intense passion and giant cash infusions from her party, failed to ever really catch fire.
在最终投票结束后不久，美联社(The Associated Press)称麦康奈尔胜出。麦康奈尔拿下了第六个任期，阻挡了民主党人艾莉森·卢德甘·格里梅斯(Alison Lundergan Grimes)的前进步伐。作为反对蓄意阻挠者，民主党的极大激情和投入的巨额资金给她的选举带来动力，但她最终没能真正激起热情。
Although Mr. McConnell’s victory seemed all but assured in recent days, he began his campaign last year as one of the most endangered incumbents, entering the race with an approval rating in the state even worse than President Obama’s.
虽然近些天来，麦康奈尔的胜利貌似几乎非常确定，但他去年开始竞选时是处境最危险的现任者之一，参加竞选时在该州的支持率甚至比奥巴马的支持率还低。
Conservative Republicans, suspicious of Mr. McConnell’s long tenure and willingness to work quietly with Democrats, put the senator in their cross hairs, and went searching for a primary challenger.
保守的共和党人疑心麦康奈尔的漫长任期及与民主党人默默共事的意愿，使这名参议员成为他们的攻击目标，并寻找一名主要的挑战者。
Their pick was Matt Bevin, a businessman whose snappy rhetoric and toothpaste-commercial smile helped draw large crowds and early excitement within the state’s Republican base.
他们选择了商人马特·贝文(Matt Bevin)。贝文诙谐活泼的语言，以及如同拍摄商业牙膏广告般的笑容帮助吸引了大量民众，并且在早期让该州的共和党选民感到兴奋。
But Mr. McConnell, 72, lived up to his reputation as a seasoned, often brutal campaigner.
但72岁的麦康奈尔没有辜负自己老练且通常都不留情面的竞选者的名声。
To inoculate himself from the Tea Party attacks, he hired key campaign staff members from his fellow Kentucky senator, Rand Paul. Once Mr. Paul’s nemesis, Mr. McConnell quickly changed course and began supporting the junior senator by voting for his bills and giving him good assignments in the Senate.
为了免遭茶党的攻击，他从同是来自肯塔基州的参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)那里聘请了竞选工作人员。曾是其劲敌的麦康奈尔，很快便转变方向，开始支持这名资历尚浅的参议员，方式则是投票支持保罗的法案，并且在参议院给保罗分派较好的工作。
Mr. McConnell easily won the Republican primary in May.
麦康奈尔在5月轻松赢得共和党党内初选。