REPUBLICAN lawmakers have seen the Trump disaster coming for a while now. They simply have no clue what to do about it.
共和党议员们眼看着特朗普这个灾难到来已经有了好一段时间。他们根本就不知道该怎么办。
A couple of months ago — before we learned that Donald Trump Jr. wanted to spend quality time with people he believed represented the Russian government, before the president publicly humiliated his attorney general and was abandoned by top business executives, before he claimed “some very fine people” were marching in Charlottesville, Va., alongside neo-Nazis and white supremacists — a Republican member of Congress I spoke with called the president a “child king,” a “self-pitying fool.”
几个月前我和一位共和党国会议员交谈时，他说总统就是个“孩子王”，是个“顾影自怜的傻瓜”——那时我们还不知道小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)曾经打算和他认为代表俄罗斯政府的人物共度一段充实的时光；总统还没有公开羞辱他的司法部长，也没有被顶级企业高管们抛弃；他还没有把那些在弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔同新纳粹与白人至上主义者们一起游行的人称为“一些相当不错的人”。
Even then, the words that came to mind when some congressional Republicans described the president were “incompetent” and “unfit.” There were concerns about his emotional stability. “There’s now a realization this isn’t going to change,” one top Republican aide on Capitol Hill said. Yet there is the simultaneous realization, as a House member told me when talking about Republicans in their home districts, that “we’re never going to have a majority of people against him.”
即便早在那个时候，一些共和党国会议员描述总统时，也忍不住会冒出“无能”和“不称职”这样的词。他们担心他情绪无常。“现在我们意识到这一点不会改变，”国会山的一位高层共和党助手说。然而，与此同时，他们还意识到另一件事，正如一位众议员在谈到家乡选区的共和党人时对我所说的，“我们绝对无法得到多数人来反对他。”
Maybe, but for now this presents Republican members of Congress who are privately alarmed by Mr. Trump with a predicament. Regardless of what he does, a vast majority of his core supporters are sticking with him. A recent Monmouth University poll found that of the 41 percent of Americans who currently approve of the job he’s doing, 61 percent said they cannot see Mr. Trump doing anything that would make them disapprove of him. Mr. Trump was on to something when he said in January 2016, “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.”
可能是吧，但是如今，这表明私下里对特朗普感到担忧的共和党国会议员面临尴尬处境。不管他做什么，他的绝大多数核心支持者都依然坚决支持他。蒙茅斯大学(Monmouth University)最近的民意调查发现，现在，41％的美国人认同他正在做的工作，61％的人表示，他们不觉得特朗普做了任何能令他们反对他的事情。2016年1月，特朗普曾经一针见血地说过：“就算我站在第五大道中间枪杀了某个人，也不会失去选民的。”
The political problem facing Republicans is that Mr. Trump’s presidency is a wreck. His agenda is dead in the water. A special counsel is overseeing an investigation of his campaign. The West Wing is dysfunctional. And President Trump is deeply unpopular with most Americans.
共和党人面临的政治问题是，特朗普的总统任期就像车祸事故。他的议程毫无进展。一位特别检察官正在监督关于他竞选的调查。白宫西翼功能失调。而且对于大多数美国人来说，特朗普总统是非常不得人心的。
A new Washington Post-ABC News poll illustrates the dilemma Republican politicians face. It found that 28 percent of polled voters say they approved of Mr. Trump’s response to Charlottesville. But among Republican voters, the figure was 62 percent, while 72 percent of conservative Republicans approved.
《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)与ABC新闻最新进行的一项民意调查显示出共和党政治家们面临的困境。调查发现，28%的选民表示他们认同特朗普对夏洛茨维尔事件的回应。但在共和党选民当中，这一数字是62%，而保守派共和党人当中有72%表示认同。
The more offensive Mr. Trump is to the rest of America, the more popular he becomes with his core supporters. One policy example: At a recent rally in Phoenix, the president said he was willing to shut down the government over the question of funding for a border wall, which most of his base favors but only about a third of all Americans want.
特朗普愈是令其他美国人反感，他在自己的核心支持者当中就愈受欢迎。举个政策方面的例子：在菲尼克斯最近的一次集会上，总统说，他愿意为边境墙资金问题而关闭政府，他的大部分基础选民都支持边境墙，但在全美国只有三分之一的人支持。
Much of this mess is of the Republican Party’s own making. Let’s not forget that Mr. Trump’s political rise began with his promulgation of the racist conspiracy theory that President Obama was not a natural-born American citizen. The Trump presidency is the result of years of destructive mental habits and moral decay. So there’s no easy solution for responsible Republicans. But there is a step they have to take.
这个混乱大部分是由共和党自己制造的。我们不要忘记，特朗普在政坛的崛起始于他所宣扬的种族主义阴谋论，称奥巴马总统不是生来即为美国公民。特朗普之所以当选总统是多年来的破坏性心理习惯与道德堕落的结果。因此，对于负责任的共和党人来说，没有任何轻松的解决方案。但是他们必须采取行动。
They need to accept, finally, the reality — evident from the moment he declared his candidacy — that Mr. Trump is unfit to govern. He will prove unable to salvage his presidency. As the failures pile up, he’ll act in an even more erratic fashion.
最终，他们需要接受现实：特朗普不适合执政——这一点从特朗普宣布参加竞选那一刻就很明显。最终将会证明，他无法挽救自己的总统任期。随着失败的积累，他会以更加不可靠的方式行事。
The mental hurdle Republicans have to clear is that in important respects the interests of the Republican Party and those of Donald Trump no longer align. The party has to highlight ways in which it can separate itself from the president.
在若干重要方面，共和党与唐纳德·特朗普的利益不再一致，这是共和党人必须清扫的一个心理障碍。共和党必须着重于彰显它与总统并非一丘之貉。
So far the response of many Republican leaders to Mr. Trump’s offenses has been silence or at most veiled, timid criticism. The effect is to rile up Trump supporters and Mr. Trump himself without rallying opposition to him. It’s the worst of all worlds.
到目前为止，对于特朗普的攻击，许多共和党领导人的反应一直是沉默，至多只是遮遮掩掩、谨小慎微的批评。其结果就是既惹怒了特朗普的支持者和特朗普本人，同时也没有召集起反对他的力量。这是最糟糕的一种情况。
What’s required now is a comprehensive, consistent case by Republican leaders at the state and national levels that signals their opposition to the moral ugliness and intellectual incoherence of Mr. Trump. Rather than standing by the president, they should consider themselves liberated and offer a constructive, humane and appealing alternative to him. They need to think in terms of a shadow government during the Trump era, with the elevation of alternative leaders on a range of matters.
现在需要的是各州与全国的共和党领袖们保持全面一致，表明他们反对特朗普的道德上的丑陋与智力上的混乱。与其支持总统，他们应该视自己为不受束缚的一群人，向他提供有建设性的、人道的以及有吸引力的其他选项。在特朗普时代，他们需要以影子政府的方式去思考，在一系列事务上提高替代领导者的地位。
This approach involves risk and may not work. It will certainly provoke an angry response from the Breitbart-alt-right-talk-radio part of the party. So be it. Republicans who don’t share Mr. Trump’s approach have to hope that his imploding presidency has created an opening to offer a profoundly different vision of America, one that is based on opportunity, openness, mobility and inclusion.
这种方式有风险，且不一定管用。它肯定会引起党内“布莱巴特-另类右翼-电台脱口秀”那部分势力的愤怒反应。那也只能如此。不赞同特朗普的方式的共和党人，只能寄希望于他那崩溃中的总统任期可以带来一个机会，为美国构建一个截然不同的、完全基于机遇、开放、流动、包容的愿景。
This requires a new intellectual infrastructure to address what may prove to be one of the largest economic disruptions in history. People in positions of influence need to make arguments on behalf of principles and ideas that have for too long gone undefended. They must appeal to moral idealism. And the party needs leaders who will fight with as much passionate intensity for their cause as Mr. Trump fights for his — which is simply himself. There’s no shortcut to forging a separate Republican identity during the Trump presidency. Half-measures and fainthearted opposition are certain to fail.
要解决这个可能会被证明为历史上最大的经济混乱之一，便需要一个新的智识基础设施。身居要职的人需要就那些久已无人捍卫的原则与理念进行讨论。他们必须诉诸道德理想主义。党需要能为他们的事业而激烈斗争的领袖，就像特朗普为且只为自己的事业而激烈斗争那样。在特朗普的总统任内，要想塑造共和党的独立身份是没有捷径可走的。半心半意的措施和怯懦的反对肯定会失败。
If Republicans need more encouragement to break with Mr. Trump, they might note that the president, who has no institutional or party loyalty, is positioning himself as a critic not just of Democrats but also of Republicans. During his rally in Arizona, he went out of his way to attack both of that state’s Republican senators, including one battling brain cancer. He followed that up with tweets attacking the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and other Republican lawmakers.
如果共和党人需要更多鼓励才能同特朗普分手，他们可能会注意到，这位总统既没有对制度也没有对党派的忠诚，他对自己的定位不仅是民主党人的批评者，也是共和党人的批评者。在亚利桑那州的集会期间，他甚至攻击了那个州的两位共和党参议员，其中一位正在同脑癌搏斗。随后，他陆续发了几条推文，攻击众议院院长保罗D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)，参议院多数党领导人米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)和其他共和党议员。
A confrontation is inevitable. The alternative is to continue to further tie the fate and the reputation of the Republican Party to a president who seems destined for epic failure and whose words stir the hearts of white supremacists.
对抗是不可避免的。如若不然，共和党的命运与声誉将进一步同这位总统绑在一起，他的任期注定将是一场惊人的大败，而且他的话语，正令白人至上主义者振奋不已。
We are well past the point where equivocations are defensible, and we’re nearly past the point where a moral reconstitution is possible. The damage Mr. Trump has inflicted on the Republican Party is already enormous. If the party doesn’t make a clean break with him, it will be generational.
我们早已过了还可以含混其词的阶段，我们已经快要错过有可能进行道德重组的阶段。特朗普对共和党造成的伤害已经很大了。如果党不同他彻底一刀两断，影响到的将是整整一代人。