MEMO to Republican legislators biting your nails over the New York primary, wondering if you can finally derail Donald J. Trump’s candidacy with, gulp, Ted Cruz: You brought it on yourselves.
致那些为了纽约州初选心惊肉跳，想知道是否终于可以通过特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)来破坏唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)竞选势头的共和党议员：这是你们自找的。
Not just by failing for too long to take Mr. Trump seriously or by lacking an effective response once you did. That’s well-covered territory. Most important, you created the anger that lifted his candidacy by years of systematically and effectively preventing passage of legislation that might have ameliorated the tough economic state of Mr. Trump’s core voters.
这不仅仅是因为你们长期以来没有把特朗普当回事，后来终于认真对待了，又拿不出有效的应对措施。这个问题已经有很多人谈到了。但最重要的是，你们引发的愤怒推升了特朗普的竞选势头，因为你们多年来系统性地、有效地阻挠了一些法案的通过，这些法案本来也许可以改善特朗普核心选民所面临的严重经济困境。
Mr. Trump’s biggest supporters are disproportionately white, middle-aged, working-class men without college educations, a group whose fortunes have flagged as globalization and new technology have rendered millions of jobs obsolete and cut into the wages of many more. While the trade agreements that Mr. Trump bashes have played a role, the mistake was not having entered into them, but having failed to sufficiently help affected workers adjust to the new dynamics.
特朗普的最有力支持者，是比例奇高的工薪阶层白人中年男性，他们没有受过大学教育。全球化进程和新技术的发展，令数以百万计的人失去岗位，让更多的人工资收入下滑，导致这个群体的财富遭受到严重冲击。虽然特朗普所抨击的贸易协定在其中发挥了一定的作用，但错误不在于协定本身，而是在于没有为受冲击的工人提供充分的支持，帮助他们适应新的形势。
For too many, those new dynamics have been painful indeed. In Michigan, where Mr. Trump won big, wages in manufacturing have fallen from a high of $28 per hour in 2003 to $21 at present, after adjustment for inflation, a stunning 25 percent decline.
对于太多人来说，这种新的形势确实很折磨人。在特朗普大获全胜的密歇根州，制造业的时薪已经从2003年的高点28美元（约合人民币180元）下降到目前的21美元，根据通货膨胀进行过调整后，跌幅达到了惊人的25%。
Meanwhile, the number of manufacturing jobs in the state has fallen from almost 900,000 in September 1999 to just under 600,000 at present, a picture that is repeated across the country.
同时，该州的制造业岗位数量已经从1999年9月的将近90万个降到不足60万个，全美各地的情况都与之类似。
Throughout his presidency, Mr. Obama has put forward constructive proposals to help those displaced workers. For its part, the Republican Congress has been behaving like Nero.
奥巴马总统在任期中提出了一些具有建设性的建议，希望为失业工人提供帮助。而共和党控制的国会则一直表现得像暴君尼禄一般。
Take, for example, the administration’s 2011 proposal of a $447 billion package of measures including payroll tax cuts and the creation of an infrastructure bank that would have led to the creation of thousands of construction jobs, as well as other substantial economic benefits.
举个例子来说，政府在2011年提出了一个4470亿美元的一揽子计划，包括削减工资税，组建一个可以创造成千上万建筑业岗位的基础设施银行，以及另外一些有重大经济利益的建议。
Designed to be bipartisan and fully paid for by higher taxes on rich Americans and some corporations, the American Jobs Act was nonetheless dead virtually upon its arrival on Capitol Hill.
《美国就业法案》(American Jobs Act)旨在代表两党，通过对美国富裕阶层和一些公司征收较高税率，来全额支付所需的资金。这个法案实际上在到达国会山的时候，就走上了死路。
That’s not all. During his administration, Mr. Obama put forth proposals for larger tax credits for child care; community college investments; expansion of the earned-income tax credit; changing retirement plans to be portable across employers and available to part-time workers; and tax credits for manufacturing communities.
这还不是全部。奥巴马在当政期间，还提出了要为照顾儿童提供更多的税收抵免；为社区学院提供投资；扩大所得税抵免；改变退休计划，可以在不同雇主之间接续，而且向兼职人员提供退休计划；为制造业社区提供税款抵减。
All these — and many more — were ignored by Congress. Even seemingly obvious steps, like continuing federal emergency benefits for the large number of long-term unemployed, have been blocked. Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, 19 states — mostly with Republican governors — have declined Mr. Obama’s Medicaid expansion plan.
所有这些提议，以及其他很多提议，都被美国国会无视了。即使是一些看上去理所当然的措施，比如继续为大量长期失业者提供联邦紧急救济，也被国会阻止了。自从《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)通过以来，有19个州否定了奥巴马的医疗补助扩展计划。这些州的州长大多是共和党人。
In its most recent budget, the White House put forth a robust plan for wage insurance, a concept with much support among economists. Under it, a worker who lost his or her job and was forced to take a lower-wage one that paid less than $50,000 per year would receive half of the lost wages for two years, up to $10,000.
在最近的预算提案中，白宫提出了一个强有力的工资保险计划，其理念得到了很多经济学家的支持。根据该计划，如果你失业之后，不得不做一份工资较低的工作，年薪不足5万美元，那么你可以在两年里获得工资降幅的一半，最多不超过1万美元。
Like many of Mr. Obama’s proposals, that wouldn’t be a game changer for working-class Americans, but it would have been a constructive piece of a more comprehensive solution.
就像奥巴马的很多提议一样，这不会根本扭转美国工薪阶层的处境，但它具有建设性，可以成为一个更加全面的解决方案的组成部分。
The Republican congressional leadership has refused to even hold hearings on the Obama budget.
而对于奥巴马的预算提案，国会的共和党领导层连听证会也不愿意举行。
To be sure, Mr. Obama was successful in achieving passage of some of his initiatives last year, such as making permanent the earned-income tax credit, the child tax credit and modest assistance for older Americans adversely affected by trade. And Mr. Obama deserves substantial credit for the drop in joblessness on his watch.
诚然，奥巴马去年也成功通过了一些提议，比如把所得税抵免、儿童税收抵免，为受到贸易冲击的美国老年人提供适度援助的措施，转化为永久性规定。在降低失业率方面，奥巴马功不可没。
But that’s not sufficient progress. For one thing, Mr. Trump’s support tends to be concentrated in areas with low labor force participation. For another, with real wages declining for many Americans, the enactment of relatively minor initiatives is small beer.
但是，这样的进展是不够的。首先，特朗普的支持者往往集中在劳动参与率较低的地区。另一个原因是，随着实际工资下降，对于很多美国人来说，这些相对较小的举措作用十分有限。
Whoever wins the Republican nomination, it’s too late to address the concerns of Mr. Trump’s core constituents before November. The anger felt by so many will not be eased until Washington takes affirmative steps.
无论谁赢得了共和党提名，现在都为时已晚，无法在11月之前化解特朗普核心支持者的这些担忧。在华盛顿采取积极行动之前，这么多的人积累的愤怒是不会被缓解的。
To ease the immediate pain, we need a much stronger safety net: extended unemployment benefits for the long-term unemployed, wage insurance, a higher minimum wage and the like. Cutting our irrational austerity frenzy to step up investment in infrastructure is a no-brainer. All of this can — and should — be paid for by higher taxes on the wealthy.
为了缓解眼前的痛苦，我们需要一张更强大的安全网：为长期失业者延长失业福利，提供工资保险，提高最低工资标准等等。把我们的非理性的紧缩狂热转化为加强基础设施投资，这是显而易见的事情。所有这一切都可以——也应该——通过提高对富人的税收来实现。
Mr. Trump may have succeeded in directing the anger of his supporters toward Washington in general and President Obama in particular. But Republicans should take heed: Given your shutdown of legislation that would help downtrodden Americans, their anger should really be focused on you.
特朗普可能已经成功地把支持者的愤怒引向了华盛顿，特别是奥巴马总统。但共和党人应该留心：那些本来可以帮助弱势美国人的立法，其实是受到了你们的阻挠，他们愤怒的真正对象应该是你们才对。