Have you heard about “libertarian populism” yet? If not, you will. It will surely be touted all over the airwaves and the opinion pages by the same kind of people who assured you, a few years ago, that Representative Paul Ryan was the very model of a Serious, Honest Conservative. So let me make a helpful public service announcement: It’s bunk.
你听说过“自由意志民粹主义”(libertarian populism)吗？如果还没有，那么你很快就会听说了。毫无疑问，这种说法马上会铺天盖地的出现在电视、广播和评论文章之中。而宣扬这种观点的人，几年前还曾向你打包票说，保罗·瑞安众议员(Paul Ryan)就是严肃而诚实的保守派的楷模。为了服务公众利益，我来阐明一点：那是胡说八道。
Some background: These are tough times for members of the conservative intelligentsia — those denizens of think tanks and opinion pages who dream of Republicans once again becoming “the party of ideas.” (Whether they ever were that party is another question.)
先讲一些背景：对于保守派知识分子来说，现在的日子有些艰难。所谓保守派知识分子，就是那些梦想着共和党再次成为“有思想的党派”的智库成员和评论文章作者。（至于共和党是否曾经是这样的党派，还要另当别论。）
For a while, they thought they had found their wonk hero in the person of Mr. Ryan. But the famous Ryan plan turned out to be crude smoke and mirrors, and I suspect that even conservatives privately realize that its author is more huckster than visionary. So what’s the next big idea?
他们曾一度认为，瑞安本人就是他们要找的理论英雄。但是，最后证明，著名的瑞安计划只是空话、胡话。我怀疑就连保守派都私下里认识到，其编撰者更像是个小贩，而非高瞻远瞩之人。那么，下一个宏伟想法是什么？
Enter libertarian populism. The idea here is that there exists a pool of disaffected working-class white voters who failed to turn out last year but can be mobilized again with the right kind of conservative economic program — and that this remobilization can restore the Republican Party’s electoral fortunes.
自由意志民粹主义出场了。其中的观点是，去年有一群工薪阶层白人选民因为心怀不满而没有出来投票，但是只要拿出合适的紧缩方案，就可以把他们动员起来——而一旦动员起来，共和党就能重新获得大量选票。
You can see why many on the right find this idea appealing. It suggests that Republicans can regain their former glory without changing much of anything — no need to reach out to nonwhite voters, no need to reconsider their economic ideology. You might also think that this sounds too good to be true — and you’d be right. The notion of libertarian populism is delusional on at least two levels.
至于为何许多右派人士都认为这个想法很有吸引力，也是显而易见的。这个观点认为，共和党在不需要做出太多改变的情况下，就能重获原来的荣耀——无须争取非白人选民，也无须重新思考自己的经济观念。你或许也认为，这么好的事儿听起来都不像是真的——你是对的。自由意志民粹主义的观念至少在两个层面上是不切实际的。
First, the notion that white mobilization is all it takes rests heavily on claims by the political analyst Sean Trende that Mitt Romney fell short last year largely because of “missing white voters” — millions of “downscale, rural, Northern whites” who failed to show up at the polls. Conservatives opposed to any major shifts in the G.O.P. position — and, in particular, opponents of immigration reform — quickly seized on Mr. Trende’s analysis as proof that no fundamental change is needed, just better messaging.
首先，只需要动员白人的想法，主要建立在政治分析人士肖恩·特伦德(Sean Trende)的观点之上，他认为米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)去年落选的大部分原因在于“失去了白人选民”——数百万没有现身投票点的“底层、农村、北方白人”。保守派不同意对共和党的立场做出任何重大改变，并立即拿特伦德的分析作为依据，说明不需要任何根本改变，只需更好地传达讯息即可，那些反对改革移民政策的人尤其如此。
But serious political scientists like Alan Abramowitz and Ruy Teixeira have now weighed in and concluded that the missing-white-voter story is a myth. Yes, turnout among white voters was lower in 2012 than in 2008; so was turnout among nonwhite voters. Mr. Trende’s analysis basically imagines a world in which white turnout rebounds to 2008 levels but nonwhite turnout doesn’t, and it’s hard to see why that makes sense.
但是，阿兰·阿布拉莫维茨(Alan Abramowitz)和鲁伊·特谢拉(Ruy Teixeira)等严肃政治学家现在开始发表意见了，他们认为失去白人投票的说法并不属实。的确，2012年的白人投票率要比2008年低，但是非白人选民也一样。特伦德的分析基本上是在幻想白人投票率会反弹到2008年的水平，而非白人的投票率则并不上升，这种想法恐怕并不合理。
Suppose, however, that we put this debunking on one side and grant that Republicans could do better if they could inspire more enthusiasm among “downscale” whites. What can the party offer that might inspire such enthusiasm?
然而，假设我们搁置这种批驳，姑且承认如果共和党人能够激发“底层”白人更大的热情，他们的处境可能会更好。但共和党能拿出什么来激发这种热情呢？
Well, as far as anyone can tell, at this point libertarian populism — as illustrated, for example, by the policy pronouncements of Senator Rand Paul — consists of advocating the same old policies, while insisting that they’re really good for the working class. Actually, they aren’t. But, in any case, it’s hard to imagine that proclaiming, yet again, the virtues of sound money and low marginal tax rates will change anyone’s mind.
此时此刻，大家都知道，自由意志民粹主义包含的内容是，在宣扬同样的旧政策的同时，坚称这些政策确实对工薪阶层有利，就像参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)所宣扬的政策一样。实际上，事实并非如此。但无论如何，很难想象再一次宣扬稳定币值，以及低边际税率的好处，能改变任何人的想法。
Moreover, if you look at what the modern Republican Party actually stands for in practice, it’s clearly inimical to the interests of those downscale whites the party can supposedly win back. Neither a flat tax nor a return to the gold standard are actually on the table; but cuts in unemployment benefits, food stamps and Medicaid are. (To the extent that there was any substance to the Ryan plan, it mainly involved savage cuts in aid to the poor.) And while many nonwhite Americans depend on these safety-net programs, so do many less-well-off whites — the very voters libertarian populism is supposed to reach.
然而，想想现代共和党在实践中都支持过什么样的主张吧，他们的主张无疑会损害那些底层白人的利益，这正是共和党口口声声要赢回的那群人。实际上，扁平税率和回归金本位的政策，根本都无从谈起。但削减失业救济、食品券和医疗补助(Medicaid)却在讨论之中。（就瑞安计划的实质内容而言，它主要涉及大幅削减对穷人的援助。）很多非白人美国人依靠这些保障项目，很多不太富裕的白人也是如此，自由意志民粹主义原本要赢得的选民也正是他们。
Specifically, more than 60 percent of those benefiting from unemployment insurance are white. Slightly less than half of food stamp beneficiaries are white, but in swing states the proportion is much higher. For example, in Ohio, 65 percent of households receiving food stamps are white. Nationally, 42 percent of Medicaid recipients are non-Hispanic whites, but, in Ohio, the number is 61 percent.
具体来说，超过60%的失业保险受益人是白人。将近一半的食品券受益人是白人，但在摇摆州中，这个比例要高得多。例如，在俄亥俄州，65%领取食品券的家庭是白人家庭。在全国范围内，42%的联邦医疗补助受益者都是非西语裔白人，但在俄亥俄州，这个比例是61%。
So when Republicans engineer sharp cuts in unemployment benefits, block the expansion of Medicaid and seek deep cuts in food stamp funding — all of which they have, in fact, done — they may be disproportionately hurting Those People; but they are also inflicting a lot of harm on the struggling Northern white families they are supposedly going to mobilize.
因此，当共和党人计划大幅削减失业救济金、阻止医疗补助规模扩大、寻求大幅减少用于食品券的资金（他们实际上已经实施了上述所有举措）时，他们或许严重伤害了那些人，但他们也给北部那些苦苦挣扎的白人家庭造成很多伤害。据说，他们打算鼓动起这些家庭。
Which brings us back to why libertarian populism is, as I said, bunk. You could, I suppose, argue that destroying the safety net is a libertarian act — maybe freedom’s just another word for nothing left to lose. But populist it isn’t.
综上所述，就像我说的那样，自由意志民粹主义是胡说八道。我想，你可以辩称，毁坏福利保障是一种自由意志主义的举动，或许“自由”只是“一无所有”的另一种说法。但这可不算民粹主义。