The recording that emerged on Friday revealing Donald J. Trump speaking in vulgar and demeaning terms about women prompted extraordinary backlash from Democrats and Republicans, raising questions about whether the Republican Party could dump its nominee at the last minute and find someone more viable a month before Election Day.
周五曝光的录音显示唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)曾用粗鲁和诋毁性的言语谈论女性，这激发了民主党和共和党人非同寻常的激烈反应，同时也引出这样一个疑问——共和党能否在最后一刻抛弃自己的提名人，在大选日到来前一个月找到一个更可行的人选。
While the idea of replacing Mr. Trump has been a fantasy for some “Never Trump” Republicans for months, the reality is that removing him from the ticket at this point would be exceedingly complicated.
尽管对一些持“永不特朗普”观念的共和党人而言，替换特朗普的想法在过去数月里一直在他们的脑子里徘徊，但现实的情况是，在此刻取消他的提名人资格将是非常复杂的。
Here’s a look at some of the questions that Republicans are mulling.
以下是共和党人正在仔细考量的一些问题。
Is it too late for Republicans to replace Trump?
共和党现在替换特朗普是否太迟？
“It’s the equivalent of a triple bank shot, really,” said Benjamin Ginsberg, a lawyer at Jones Day who was national counsel for the presidential campaigns of Mitt Romney and George W. Bush.
“这真的相当于打出一个三颗星入袋的球，”众达律师事务所(Jones Day)的律师本杰明·金斯伯格(Benjamin Ginsberg)说。他曾在米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的总统竞选团队中担任全国法律顾问。
Mr. Ginsberg said that the Republican Party did not have a mechanism to replace a nominee just because it wants to. The party’s rules state that “the Republican National Committee is hereby authorized and empowered to fill any and all vacancies which may occur by reason of death, declination, or otherwise of the Republican candidate for president of the United States.”
金斯伯格表示，不是共和党想替换提名人就能有这样的机制。该党的规定是，“共和党全国委员会有权填补因死亡、婉辞或其他原因出现的任何共和党总统候选人空缺。”
That essentially means that Mr. Trump would have to die or become incapacitated for the Republican Party to replace him.
这本质上意味着，只有特朗普死亡或无法做这项工作，共和党才能替换他。
But isn’t “otherwise” in the R.N.C. rule book open to interpretation?
难道不能从其他方面解读共和党代表大会规则中的“其他”？
The use of the word “otherwise” has led some people to suggest that the party has some leeway for ridding itself of Mr. Trump. However, election law experts do not agree.
“其他”这个词的使用致使一些人认为，共和党还有一些摆脱特朗普的余地。但选举法专家却不这么认为。
The issue came up before the Republican National Convention when critics of Mr. Trump mused about ways to keep him from winning the nomination. Josh Putnam, a political science lecturer at the University of Georgia, addressed the idea on his blog, FrontloadingHQ, in August and deemed it a nonstarter.
这个问题在共和党全国大会召开之前就显现出来了，当时特朗普的批评者考虑了使他无法获得提名的各种可能。今年8月，乔治亚大学(University of Georgia)政治学讲师乔希·普特南(Josh Putnam)在他的博客FrontloadingHQ上讲到了这种想法，认为它不切实际。
“The intention there was to allow the party latitude to replace someone who was incapacitated, neither dead nor dropped out of the race,” Mr. Putnam said. “It’s not about what to do if someone made some controversial comments on a tape 11 years ago and we want to replace them now.”
“这些规则的意图是让党有权替换无法担当提名人的人，即他们要么死亡，要么退出了竞选，”普特南说。“而不是当有人在11年前的录音带中留下了有争议性的言论，我们现在想替换他们时，具体该怎么办的问题。”
Mr. Putnam concluded that Mr. Trump’s dropping out of the race was the most probable scenario for getting him off the ticket absent a health calamity.
普特南的结论是，在没有重大健康问题的情况下，特朗普退出竞选才是令他出局的最有可能的途径。
What if Trump did decide to quit?
如果特朗普决定退选呢？
If Mr. Trump dropped out of the race, the Republican National Committee would have to race against the clock to find a replacement that members could agree upon. The rules committee would scramble to determine who would be eligible to be nominated and how such a nomination would proceed.
如果特朗普退出竞选，共和党全国委员会将不得不争分多秒地找到一个委员会成员一致认同的替代人选。规则委员也需要尽快决定谁有资格获得提名，以及提名如何进行。
The 168 committee members representing state delegations would have to hold a vote and, as Mr. Trump did at the convention in Cleveland, the new nominee would need to win at least 1,237 delegates to become the party’s standard-bearer.
代表各州的168位委员会成员将不得不进行投票。就像特朗普在克利夫兰举行的大会上获得提名时一样，新提名人必须赢得至少1237名代表的支持，才能成为共和党的领袖。
Haven’t deadlines to get on state ballots passed?
各州征集选票的最后截止日期不是已经过了吗？
Mr. Trump and the vice-presidential nominee, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, are already on the ballots across the country, and Mr. Ginsberg said that swapping the nominee would require a dizzying amount of litigation to try to get states to add someone else’s name and reprint their ballots.
金斯伯格表示，特朗普和副总统提名人、印第安纳州州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)的名字已经列在全国各地的选票上，替换提名人将需要经过数量庞大的诉讼程序，以便让各州增添其他人选的名字，重新印刷选票。
Adding to the complexity is the fact that early and absentee voting has started in many places and, presumably, many ballots have been cast for Mr. Trump.
令情况更加错综复杂的是，许多地方已经开始早投和缺席投票。有不少票应该已经投给了特朗普。
Mr. Ginsberg says that the laws are murky here, with voters technically picking “electors” who are bound in some states to whoever is the nominee and in other states to the specific candidates.
金斯伯格表示，这方面的法规有些模糊。选民严格来说是在挑选“选举团成员”，这些成员在某些州按规则必须支持本党提名人，在某些州则是支持某个特定候选人。
Ideally for the party, votes cast for Mr. Trump would go to the new nominee, but that would probably be subject to litigation.
对共和党而言，理想的情况是，原本会投给特朗普的票被划归新提名人，但这可能会引发诉讼。
“It is an exercise of lawyers’ fantasies to imagine the litigation that would take place,” Mr. Ginsberg said. “You would have to amass an army of lawyers and send them to each state.”
“一旦发生这样的诉讼，那可是律师的梦想成真，”金斯伯格说。“你必须集合一大批律师，将他们派往各州。”
Is there any precedent for all of this?
以前有过此种先例吗？
There is. Richard Winger, the editor of Ballot Access News, points out that in 1912, the Republican incumbent nominee for vice president, James Sherman, died in October. His name remained on the ballots but all of the Republican electors voted for the new vice-presidential nominee, Nicholas Murray Butler, who had been chosen in late October by the national Republican committee.
有，《选票登名新闻》(Ballot Access News)总编理查德·温格(Richard Winger)指出，在1912年的竞选中，共和党副总统提名人詹姆斯·谢尔曼(James Sherman)于当年10月去世。他的名字依然留在了选票上，但所有共和党选举团成员都将选票投给了共和党全国委员会在10月末选出的新副总统提名人尼古拉斯·默里·巴特勒(Nicholas Murray Butler)。
On the Democratic side, the death of Horace Greeley in 1872 came after the election but before the Electoral College cast its votes.
在民主党一边，也曾出现1987年霍勒斯·格里利(Horace Greeley)在选举结束后、选举人团投票之前去世。
In that case, most electors voted for other presidential and vice-presidential candidates.
当时大多数选举团成员都将选票投给了另一位总统和副总统候选人。
Congress rejected the votes by Democratic electors that went to Mr. Greeley, who had lost to Ulysses S. Grant.
国会拒绝承认投给格里利的民主党选举团成员选票。格里利败给了尤利西斯·S·格兰特(Ulysses S. Grant)。
“The electors are the deciders,” Mr. Winger said. “I suspect there are a few Republican electors who expect to be elected and who are planning to vote for someone other than Trump. I think both Evan McMullin and Gary Johnson are trying to persuade various likely Republican electors to vote against Trump in the Electoral College in December.”
“选举团成员是决定因素，”温格说。“我怀疑有一些有望获选共和党选举团成员的人正打算投票给特朗普之外的人。我觉得伊凡·麦克马林(Evan McMullin)和加里·约翰逊(Gary Johnson)都在努力说服各个有可能当选共和党选举团成员的人，在12月举行的大选中对特朗普投反对票。”
What if Republicans really, really wanted to dump Trump?
如果共和党人真的、真的很想抛弃特朗普呢？
The Republican National Committee could try to change its rules (or its rules about changing rules) and come up with a new way to find a different nominee.
共和党全国委员会可能在竭力改变自身的规则（或有关改变规则的规则），提出寻找其他提名人的新办法。
Of course, this would probably bring chaos and cause Mr. Trump and his legions of supporters to declare the process “rigged.”
当然，这可能会带来混乱，导致特朗普及他的大批支持者宣称这个过程“存在幕后操纵”。