WASHINGTON — President Obama won the support on Tuesday of Republican and Democratic leaders in the House for an attack on Syria, giving him a foundation to win broader approval for military action from a Congress that still harbors deep reservations.
华盛顿——周二，奥巴马总统赢得了众议院(House)共和党及民主党领袖对打击叙利亚的支持，由此为获取国会(Congress)对军事行动的广泛支持奠定了基础，尽管国会仍旧持有强烈的保留态度。
Speaker John A. Boehner, who with other Congressional leaders met Mr. Obama in the Oval Office, said afterward that he would “support the president’s call to action,” an endorsement quickly echoed by the House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia.
众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)及其他国会领袖与奥巴马在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)举行了会晤。之后，博纳表示他将“支持总统的行动呼吁”，众议院多数党领袖、弗吉尼亚州共和党议员埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)也迅速表达了同样的观点。
Uncertainties abound, particularly in the House, where the imprimatur of the Republican leadership does not guarantee approval by rebellious rank and file, and where vocal factions in both parties are opposed to anything that could entangle the nation in another messy conflict in the Middle East.
依然存在很多不确定性，特别是众议院，因为共和党领导层的支持不能确保难以管控的普通议员也表示支持，此外，众议院两党中都有一些直言不讳的派别，他们反对任何可能使美国卷入中东另一场混乱冲突的举措。
Still, the expressions of support from top Republicans who rarely agree with Mr. Obama on anything suggest the White House may be on firmer footing than seemed the case on Saturday, when the president abruptly halted his plans for action in the face of growing protests from Congress.
然而，鉴于共和党高层很少有与奥巴马观点一致的时候，共和党高层表态支持奥巴马的举动还是说明，白宫可能获得了更加稳固的基础，情况好于周六，当时总统遭遇国会日益强烈的抗议，突然中止了他的行动计划。
On Tuesday evening, Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee agreed on a resolution that would give Mr. Obama authority to carry out a strike against Syria, for a period of 60 days, with one 30-day extension.
周二晚间，参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)的两党成员就一项决议达成一致，该决议将授权奥巴马开展针对叙利亚的打击行动，期限为60天，还可以延长30天。
Shortly after that, Mr. Obama left for Sweden and Russia, where he will try to shore up an international coalition to punish Syria for a chemical weapons attack and will probably encounter some of the same debates that are cleaving the Capitol.
该委员会作出决议后不久，奥巴马即动身前往瑞典和俄罗斯，他将在这两个国家努力巩固国际联盟，以便就化学武器攻击事件惩罚叙利亚。他还可能遇到一些论战，此类论战致使美国国会产生分裂。
Before his departure, the White House intensified what has become the most extraordinary lobbying campaign of Mr. Obama’s presidency as it deployed members of his war council and enlisted political alumni of his 2008 campaign to press the argument with the public.
奥巴马启程之前，白宫利用奥巴马军事委员会的成员及曾参与其2008年竞选团队的政界友人极力向公众推销相关论点，以此强化这场奥巴马执政期间最不寻常的游说活动。
“This is not the time for armchair isolationism,” said Secretary of State John Kerry, who answered sharp questions and defended the administration’s strategy for Syria in nearly four hours of sometimes sharp exchanges before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)说，“现在不是坚持不切实际的孤立主义的时候。”克里与参议院外交关系委员会进行了将近四个小时时或激烈的对话，其间回答了一些尖锐的问题，并为奥巴马政府的叙利亚策略进行了辩护。
Although he appeared alongside Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel — another former senator — and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, Mr. Kerry dominated the hearings. He seemed keenly aware of the echoes of Iraq.
虽然前参议员、国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)及参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)也与克里一同现身，但克里在听证会中占据了主导地位。他似乎强烈地意识到了伊拉克战争的余响。
“We were here for that vote,” Mr. Kerry said. “We voted. So we are especially sensitive — Chuck and I — to never again asking any member of Congress to take a vote on faulty intelligence. And that is why our intelligence community has scrubbed and rescrubbed the evidence.”
“我们曾来到这里就伊拉克战争进行投票，”克里说。“当时就投过票。因此，我们——我和查克——特别敏感，再也不会要求国会的任何议员依据错误的情报进行投票。正是由于这个原因，我们的情报人员对证据进行了反复筛查。”
Mr. Kerry said the intelligence proved that the “Assad regime prepared for this attack, issued instructions to prepare for this attack, warned its own forces to use gas masks,” and the intelligence included “physical evidence of where the rockets came from and when.”
克里表示，情报证明“阿萨德(Assad)政权曾为那次攻击进行准备，发布了准备工作的指导方针，并通知自己的部队使用防毒面具”，情报还包含“证明火箭来源地及运送时间的物证”。
Mr. Hagel, who, like Mr. Kerry, is a veteran of the Vietnam War, used another argument used by previous administrations: a warning that authoritarian governments with arsenals of unconventional weapons could transfer them to terrorist groups.
跟克里一样，哈格尔参加过越南战争，他用上了之前的几届政府用过的理由，警告称，拥有非常规武器储备的威权政府会将它们转移给恐怖组织。
Casting the issue as one of self-defense, the defense secretary also underscored the threat to American military personnel across the region if chemical weapons proliferated out of Syria.
国防部长将该问题归类于自卫问题，并且强调，如果化学武器扩散至叙利亚之外，整个中东地区的美国军事人员将面临威胁。
He said other dictators around the world might be emboldened if the United States did not punish the Assad government.
他表示，如果美国不惩罚阿萨德政府，世界各地的其他独裁者可能会更加胆大妄为。
“The use of chemical weapons in Syria is not only an assault on humanity,” Mr. Hagel said. “It is a serious threat to America’s national security interests and those of our closest allies.”
“叙利亚政府使用化学武器不仅是反人类的行为，”哈格尔说。“还对美国及我们最亲密盟友的国家安全利益造成了严重威胁。”
Before the hearing began, and again after Mr. Kerry spoke, protesters from the antiwar group Code Pink jumped up and shouted against military action. “Kerry, no more war in Syria!” one demonstrator exclaimed, adding that America needed health care and education more than military action.
听证会开始之前以及克里发表讲话之后，来自反战组织粉红守则(Code Pink)的抗议者都跳出来大声疾呼，对军事行动表示反对。一名抗议者喊道，“克里，叙利亚不需要更多的战争！”这名抗议者还说，与军事行动相比，美国更需要医疗和教育。
General Dempsey was a subdued presence in the hearing. Although he, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel sought to present a unified front, they have had differences over how to respond to the conflict in Syria in recent months. Mr. Kerry has pushed to consider deeper American military involvement, and General Dempsey has repeatedly highlighted the risks of large-scale intervention.
邓普西上将在听证会上表现得比较沉默。虽然他、克里以及哈格尔努力给人们留下立场一致的印象，但是近几个月来，他们三人在如何回应叙利亚冲突的问题上一直有争议。克里一直在敦促各方考虑加强美军干预力度，邓普西上将则反复强调大规模干预的风险。
Similar differences were on display among lawmakers who spoke during the Senate hearing or after the meeting at the White House with Mr. Obama, Mr. Kerry and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
立法者在参议院听证会上的发言，以及他们会后与奥巴马、克里及副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在白宫的会谈，也表现出了相似的争议。
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, said she supported the president and sent a letter to fellow Democrats urging that they fall into line. But she conceded, “In my district, I don’t think people are convinced that military action is necessary.”
众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州众议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)表示，她支持奥巴马，并且写了信给其他民主党成员，呼吁他们加入支持的行列。但是她也承认，“就我所在的选区而言，我并不认为人们相信军事行动的必要性。”
Ms. Pelosi’s comments reflected her dilemma as a leader of the president’s party, which still has a strong liberal antiwar wing. “The American people need to hear more about the intelligence,” she said.
南希·佩洛西的言论反映了她作为民主党领袖的两难处境，因为民主党仍然拥有一个强大的自由派反战分支。她说，“美国人民需要了解更多情报。”
A spokesman for Mr. Boehner said that despite his support for Mr. Obama, the Republican leadership would not lean on other Republicans to vote for military action and would leave that lobbying to the White House. Mr. Boehner’s stance will ease the pressure on him from members of his party, who believe the United States has no business in Syria. It will increase the pressure on Ms. Pelosi.
博纳的一名发言人说，虽然博纳支持奥巴马，但共和党领导层绝不会对其他共和党成员施压，要求他们投票赞成军事行动，只会把游说的任务留给白宫。博纳的态度将会减轻一些共和党成员对他施加的压力，这些成员都认为叙利亚冲突与美国无关。但是，这将会增加佩洛西所面临的压力。
The calendar is Mr. Obama’s enemy: Many members from both parties are still back in their districts hearing from constituents, and the feedback, based on numerous interviews, is overwhelmingly negative.
目前的时机也对奥巴马不利：很多两党成员仍然在他们所在的选区听取选民意见，与此同时，根据大量采访得出的选民反馈都非常消极。