SEOUL, South Korea — The leaders of North and South Korea will meet for talks on Friday, a rare moment of face-to-face diplomacy after 70 years of bitter rivalry.
韩国首尔——朝鲜和韩国的领导人将于周五会晤，这是经过70年激烈较量之后的罕见时刻。
Adding to the history-making stakes of Friday’s encounter is the prospect that if all goes well, President Trump and Kim Jong-un will have their own meeting in May or June. Those talks would be the first dialogue between a sitting American president and a leader of North Korea.
在周五会晤的创历史性赌注之上，还有这样一种可能：如果一切进展顺利，特朗普总统和金正恩将在5月或6月举行他们两人的会晤，那将是美国现任总统与朝鲜领导人之间的首次对话。
On the table are issues that have bedeviled the Korean Peninsula for much of the 20th century, including an official end to the Korean War, as well as some that are already shaping the 21st, like the North’s nuclear weapons and missile programs.
摆在桌面上的问题，是一些在20世纪的大部分时间里一直困扰着朝鲜半岛的问题，包括朝鲜战争的正式结束；以及一些已经在影响21世纪的问题，比如朝鲜的核武器和导弹计划。
As Mr. Kim and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea prepare to meet at Panmunjom, the so-called truce village that straddles their countries’ border, here is what you need to know.
随着金正恩和韩国总统文在寅准备在跨越两国边界的所谓“休战村”板门店会面，你需要了解以下事情。
What is the Demilitarized Zone?
什么是非军事区？
The Demilitarized Zone, or DMZ, is a stretch of land that spans the Korean Peninsula at the 38th parallel, serving as a buffer between North and South Korea. Despite its name, it is heavily fortified with land mines, armed soldiers and barbed wire.
非军事区（Demilitarized Zone，缩写为DMZ）指的是沿着横跨朝鲜半岛北纬38度线的作为朝鲜与韩国之间缓冲地带的区域。尽管名为非军事区，但那里布满了地雷，有重兵把守，还设有铁丝网。
It is 160 miles long and about 2.5 miles wide. Panmunjom, located within the DMZ and just 35 miles from the South Korean capital, Seoul, is the site of the Joint Security Area, where troops from North and South Korea are separated by only a few feet.
非军事区约260公里长、4公里宽。板门店位于非军事区内，距离韩国首都首尔仅55公里，是共同警戒区的所在地，朝鲜和韩国的军队在那里只有几米之隔。
A hotline directly connecting the two Korean leaders was installed last week. As a warm-up gesture, the line is supposed to be used by Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon before they travel to Panmunjom. Their talks will take place inside the Peace House, a conference center on the south side of the truce village.
直接连接朝鲜和韩国领导人的热线电话上周已开通。作为准备活动的姿态，金正恩和文在寅在前往板门店前将使用这条热线。他们的会谈将在和平之家举行，这是休战村南边的一个会议中心。
What would a peace treaty mean?
和平条约将意味着什么？
Mr. Moon has said the leaders will talk about establishing a treaty that would formally end the Korean War.
文在寅曾表示，两国领导人将就达成一项正式结束朝鲜战争的条约进行讨论。
In the past, North Korea has demanded that the American soldiers stationed in the South must leave the peninsula as a condition of peace. But Mr. Kim’s stance on the future of the 28,500 American troops appears to have softened in recent weeks.
以前，朝鲜一直要求驻扎在韩国的美国士兵离开朝鲜半岛，作为和平的先决条件。不过，近几周来，金正恩在2.85万名驻韩美军的未来问题的立场上似乎有所软化。
Over the decades, American presidents have decreased the number of troops stationed in the South. The Trump administration has made no suggestion that it would shrink the military contingent further.
几十年来，历任美国总统一直在减少驻韩美军的数量。特朗普政府还没有暗示过会进一步缩小驻韩美军的规模。
What is the likely outcome of Friday’s meeting?
周五的会晤可能有什么结果？
Expect heavily scripted generalities. Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon plan to issue a joint declaration, which was largely brokered during a recent visit by South Korean officials to Pyongyang. Mr. Kim has said he is willing to discuss denuclearization in exchange for guarantees that his government would not be overthrown and his personal security would be assured.
预计有大量照本宣科的笼统说法。金正恩和文在寅打算发表联合声明，这是韩国官员近期访问平壤时促成的。金正恩已表示，他愿意讨论无核化问题，以换取他的政府不被推翻、他个人的安全能够得到保证的担保。
The expected statement is likely to be short on specifics, intended to set the groundwork for more substantial negotiations between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump. Watch for a commitment that the North and South will meet more regularly.
预期的声明可能会缺乏具体细节，声明是为给金正恩和特朗普进行更实质性的谈判奠定基础。值得关注的是朝鲜和韩国将更加经常举行会谈的承诺。
What should we expect from talks between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim?
我们应该在特朗普与金正恩的会谈中期待什么？
The two leaders spent much of last year exchanging threats and insults, but Mr. Trump has been widely positive in his approach to Mr. Kim since the North Korean leader signaled a willingness to negotiate.
尽管这两位领导人在去年的大部分时间都在互相威胁和辱骂，但自从朝鲜领导人表示愿意谈判以来，特朗普在对待金正恩的方式上一直持高度积极的态度。
The president praised Mr. Kim’s announcement last week that he would suspend missile and nuclear tests and close a nuclear test site. So far, Mr. Trump has set no preconditions for talks with Mr. Kim.
特朗普称赞了金正恩上周的声明，金正恩说，他将暂停导弹和核试验，并将关闭一个核试验基地。到目前为止，特朗普都还没有设定任何与金正恩会谈的先决条件。
But administration officials have been much firmer. They have called for a complete dismantlement of the nuclear arsenal in North Korea, a process that would need to be verified by inspections. Many experts see the latest offer from North Korea to suspend testing as an effort to wind back punishing United Nations sanctions.
但美国政府官员的态度更为强硬。他们要求彻底废除朝鲜的核武库，这是一个需要通过核查来进行证实的过程。许多专家把朝鲜最近提出的暂停核试验的提议看作是放松联合国制裁的努力。
Mr. Kim has called for the “phased” and “synchronized” implementation of any denuclearization deal, in which each stage of dismantlement would be met with incentives like the easing of sanctions.
金正恩呼吁要“分阶段”和“同步地”执行任何无核化协议，这意味着，废除核武器的每一步都要得到譬如放松制裁等激励措施的响应。
Why is Japan wary of the rapprochement between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump?
为什么日本对金正恩和特朗普之间的友好关系保持警惕？
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan is worried that the United States will agree to a deal in which North Korea dismantles its intercontinental missiles, but keeps shorter-range missiles that can hit Japan.
日本首相安倍晋三担心，美国将与朝鲜达成的协议，会要求朝鲜放弃其洲际导弹，但允许朝鲜保留能够打击日本的短程导弹。
Some analysts believe such an agreement would allow Mr. Trump to claim that he had saved the United States from the threat of North Korea, though doing so could come at the expense of Japan and South Korea.
一些分析人士认为，这样的协议将让特朗普能够声称他不再让美国受到朝鲜的威胁，尽管这样做可能会损害日本和韩国的利益。