The latest measles outbreak, which began at Disneyland in California between Dec. 17 and 20, is spreading. The seven confirmed cases first reported less than two weeks ago have quickly multiplied to 54 confirmed cases as of this writing. This includes two cases in Utah, two in Washington and one in Mexico. Some of the people infected were nowhere near Disneyland in December, suggesting that those infected in the park have begun infecting others. Most of those infected were “under-immunized,” which can mean they have been vaccinated against some illnesses but not others, or have not had all the recommended doses of a vaccine for their age.
12月17日至20日在加州迪士尼乐园开始的最新麻疹疫情正在蔓延。最初，不到两周前（本文发表于2015年1月22日）报告了7个确诊病例，本文撰写时已经迅速扩展至54例。这包括犹他州的两例，华盛顿州的两例和墨西哥的一例。其中一些感染者12月份根本不在迪士尼乐园附近，这表明，那些在迪士尼乐园感染的人已经开始传染其他人。大部分感染者“没有完全免疫力”，意思是，他们可能接种过某些疾病的疫苗，但是没有接种其他疾病的疫苗，或者没有完全按照年龄推荐的剂量接种。
“With people coming to Disneyland from all over the U.S. and world and then traveling back to their states and countries and potentially exposing vulnerable people around them, this is like an epidemiological case study of how measles virus can spread; we’re all holding our breath here, hoping it doesn’t land in unvaccinated communities,” said Patricia Stinchfield, director of Infection Prevention and Control and the Children’s Immunization Project at Children’s Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota. When it comes to communicable diseases, it really is a small world after all.
“去迪士尼乐园的人来自美国和世界各地，然后他们会回到自己的州或国家，可能会传染给他们身边的易感人群，这就像麻疹病毒传播方式的一个病例研究。我们都提心吊胆，希望它不要传播到未接种的社区，”明尼苏达州儿童医院和诊所系统的传染病防治和儿童免疫项目主任帕特里夏·斯廷奇菲尔德(Patricia Stinchfield)说。我们提到传染性疾病时，发现这个世界真的很小。
Measles is among the most contagious viruses, infecting 90 percent of unvaccinated people who come into contact with it. Transmitted via a sneeze or a cough, the virus can live in air droplets for two hours after an infected person has left the room, exposing everyone who enters during that time frame. It’s particularly contagious during the four days before a rash appears, when most people are unaware they are infected.
麻疹是传染性最强的病毒之一，90%未接种疫苗的人接触到这种病毒都会被传染。麻疹病毒通过喷嚏和咳嗽传播，感染者离开房间后，麻疹病毒能在空气飞沫中存活两个小时，这个时段进入房间的人都可能被传染。在皮疹出现前的四天里，麻疹病毒的传染性最强，而那时候大部分人还不知道自己已被传染。
The first symptoms, which show up an average of eight to 14 days after exposure, look a lot like other viral illnesses: high fever, cough, conjunctivitis and a runny nose. Even the beginnings of the dotted red rash, which spreads from head to toe, may not signal measles to some people. “We have a lot of young parents and clinicians who’ve never seen it before, and may not quickly identify it,” Ms. Stinchfield said.
平均算来，初期症状在被传染后8至14天出现，它的症状看起来很像其他病毒性疾病：高烧、咳嗽、结膜炎、流鼻涕。甚至从头到脚开始出现红色皮疹，也未能让有些人意识到这是麻疹。“很多年轻父母和临床医生从未见过麻疹，也许不能很快认出它，”斯廷奇菲尔德说。
The United States declared the virus eliminated from this country in 2000, thanks to the 99 percent effective measles vaccine and decades of successful immunization programs. Relatively few doctors and parents have seen measles because up until a few years ago, measles cases in the United States were rare (from exposure abroad) and quickly contained. But because of a growing antivaccination movement that has mistakenly linked the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine with autism, there are more pockets of unvaccinated communities today than there have been in recent history. This has weakened our country’s herd immunity (also known as community immunity), which means a vaccinated majority will protect a minority that is either too young to be vaccinated or immunocompromised. If too many people are not vaccinated, our communities become vulnerable. Many experts attribute last year’s 644 measles cases (the highest number of recorded cases in 15 years) to that growing vulnerability. So it seems that whether you choose to vaccinate or not, measles is a growing threat.
2000年，美国宣布，由于有效率高达99%的麻疹疫苗以及几十年成功的免疫项目，麻疹病毒在美国已被消灭。很少有医生和父母见过麻疹，因为直到几年前，麻疹病例（是在国外传染的）在美国还非常罕见，而且很快就被控制住了。但是由于一场规模渐渐扩大反疫苗运动错误地认为麻风腮（麻疹、风疹和腮腺炎）三联疫苗是孤独症的诱因之一，如今未接种群体患麻疹的病例比前些年有所增多。这削弱了美国的群体免疫力（亦称社区免疫力），群体免疫力的意思是，大多数接种疫苗的人将保护少数因年幼不能接种或免疫功能不全的人。如果太多人没有接种，那美国社会的整体免疫力就下降了。很多专家把去年的644个麻疹病例（15年来的最高纪录）归因于群体免疫力的降低。所以，不管你接种与否，麻疹的威胁都越来越大。
To say that this worries me is an understatement. As a health journalist, I have spent years writing about the importance and safety of vaccines, always explaining that their enormous benefits far outweigh their risks. And as a mother of two girls, one of whom is not yet old enough for her second dose of MMR (the first dose is typically given from 12 to 18 months; the second dose is given at age 4), I can’t stop my mind from wandering to unthinkable places. What if her little body has not yet mounted an adequate immune response to her first MMR dose? What if she doesn’t have the requisite disease-fighting antibodies to fend off measles, which could be flying in on the next plane?
仅仅是担忧还不足以描述我的心情。作为一名健康类记者，多年来我撰写了很多关于疫苗重要性和安全性的文章，一直在解释疫苗的巨大益处远远大于它的风险。作为两个女儿的母亲——其中一个尚年幼，不能注射麻风腮三联疫苗的第二针（第一针通常在12至18个月注射；第二针4岁注射）——我总是忍不住胡思乱想。要是她小小的身体还没有对第一针产生足够的免疫反应怎么办？要是她没有足够的抗体抗击麻疹怎么办？可能麻疹正搭乘下一班飞机飞向美国。
People tend to forget that before the measles vaccine was introduced in 1963, about three to four million Americans contracted the virus each year, and many of them didn’t just get an annoying rash. Of the people infected yearly, 48,000 were hospitalized, 4,000 developed brain swelling (encephalitis) and up to 500 died. Other complications of measles include pneumonia, blindness, deafness and permanent neurological disability.
人们可能忘了，在1963年麻疹疫苗推出之前，每年约有300万至400万美国人感染这种病毒，其中很多不只是出现了讨厌的皮疹。每年感染的人中有4.8万人入院，4000人得了脑炎，500人不治身亡。麻疹的其他并发症包括肺炎、失明、失聪以及永久性神经障碍。