On Wednesday, Douglas Elmendorf, the director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, said the obvious: losing your job and choosing to work less aren’t the same thing. If you lose your job, you suffer immense personal and financial hardship. If, on the other hand, you choose to work less and spend more time with your family, “we don’t sympathize. We say congratulations.”
周三，无党派机构国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)主任道格拉斯·埃尔蒙多夫(Douglas W. Elmendorf)说出了一个明显的事实：失去工作和选择少干点工作不是一回事。一旦失去工作，你会陷入严重的个人和财务困难。另一方面，如果你选择少干些工作，多跟家人在一起，“我们不会同情。我们会祝贺你。”
And now you know everything you need to know about the latest falsehood in the ever-mendacious campaign against health reform.
只要明白这一点，谎话连篇的反医保改革运动中最新出炉的那个谎言也就不难理解了。
Let’s back up. On Tuesday, the budget office released a report on the fiscal and economic outlook that included two appendices devoted to effects of the Affordable Care Act.
我们往回倒一点。在周二，预算办公室发布了一份财政和经济前景报告，其中包括两篇关于《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)效果的附录。
The first appendix attracted almost no attention from the news media, yet it was actually a bombshell. Much public discussion of health reform is still colored by Obamacare’s terrible start, and presumes that the program remains a disaster. Some of us have pointed out that things have been going much better lately — but now it’s more or less official. The budget office predicts that first-year sign-ups in the health exchanges will fall only modestly short of expectations, and that nearly as many uninsured Americans will gain insurance as it predicted last spring.
第一篇附录基本上没有引起新闻媒体的注意，但却是一颗重磅炸弹。“奥巴马医改”的糟糕开局至今仍影响着关于医保改革的公共讨论，致使讨论都假定该项目依然是一场灾难。此前已经有人在说，近来事情有了大幅的好转——只是现在算是比较明确了。预算办公室预测，医保交易所在第一年的签约量只会比预期略少一点，而原本无医保、现在可以享受医保的美国人，人数几乎达到了去年春天的预期。
This good news got drowned out, however, by false claims about the meaning of the second health care appendix, on labor supply.
然而第二篇讲劳动力供应的附录，却引起了许多错误的解读，把前面那个好消息给淹没了。
It has always been clear that health reform will induce some Americans to work less. Some people will, for example, retire earlier because they no longer need to keep working to keep their health insurance. Others will reduce their hours to spend more time with their children because insurance is no longer contingent on holding a full-time job. More subtly, the incentive to work will be somewhat reduced by health insurance subsidies that fall as your income rises.
医保改革会减少一部分美国人的工作，这从来都是很明确的。比如有的人会提前退休，因为他们不需要再为了保住医保而工作下去了。还有的人会减少工作时数，把更多时间给他们的孩子，因为是否有保险不再取决于你有没有一份全职工作。更微妙的是，工作的动力也会有一定程度的下降，因为医保补贴数额会随着你的收入上升而下降。
The budget office has now increased its estimate of the size of these effects. It believes that health reform will reduce the number of hours worked in the economy by between 1.5 percent and 2 percent, which it unhelpfully noted “represents a decline in the number of full-time-equivalent workers of about 2.0 million.”
预算办公室现在提高了对这些影响的预估，认为医保改革会使全国人口总工作小时数减少1.5%到2%，还加了一句帮倒忙的表述，称这“相当于减少了约200万名等效全职劳动力。”
Why was this unhelpful? Because politicians and, I’m sorry to say, all too many news organizations immediately seized on the 2 million number and utterly misrepresented its meaning. For example, Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, quickly posted this on his Twitter account: “Under Obamacare, millions of hardworking Americans will lose their jobs and those who keep them will see their hours and wages reduced.”
为什么说帮倒忙？因为政客们以及——实在抱歉，不得不说——太多的新闻媒体都立刻抓住200万这个数字，彻底扭曲了它的含义。比如众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)很快就通过自己的Twitter账号说：“在奥巴马医改之下，数百万勤奋的美国人将失去工作，即使保住工作，工作小时数和薪资也将下降。”
Not a word of this claim was true. The budget office report didn’t say that people will lose their jobs. It declared explicitly that the predicted fall in hours worked will come “almost entirely because workers will choose to supply less labor” (emphasis added). And as we’ve already seen, Mr. Elmendorf did his best the next day to explain that voluntary reductions in work hours are nothing like involuntary job loss. Oh, and because labor supply will be reduced, wages will go up, not down.
这句话从头到尾都是错的。预算办公室的报告没说有人会失业。它非常明确地表示，之所以做出了工作时数会下降的预判，“几乎完全是因为工人会选择减少劳力的供应”（粗体为作者所加）。我们已经看到，埃尔蒙多夫在第二天尽可能地做出了解释，说这种自愿减少工作时数与非自愿的失业是毫不相干的。噢，还有，由于劳动力供应下降，薪资会上升，而不是下降。
We should add that the budget office believes that health reform will actually reduce unemployment over the next few years.
我们还应该补充一点，预算办公室认为，医保改革在未来几年里其实是会降低失业率的。
Just to be clear, the predicted long-run fall in working hours isn’t entirely a good thing. Workers who choose to spend more time with their families will gain, but they’ll also impose some burden on the rest of society, for example, by paying less in payroll and income taxes. So there is some cost to Obamacare over and above the insurance subsidies. Any attempt to do the math, however, suggests that we’re talking about fairly minor costs, not the “devastating effects” Mr. Cantor asserted in his next post on Twitter.
需要澄清的是，目前预计的工作时数长期下降不完全是好事。选择多和家人在一起的工人会获益，但同时他们也会给社会带来一些负担，比如他们缴纳的工资和收入税会减少。就是说，奥巴马医保除了保险补贴以外还会有别的一些成本。然而，无论你怎么算，这里面涉及的成本都是相当微小的，可不像坎托接下来在Twitter上发的那条所说，有“灾难性的影响”。
So was Mr. Cantor being dishonest? Or was he just ignorant of the policy basics and unwilling to actually read the report before trumpeting his misrepresentation of what it said? It doesn’t matter — because even if it was ignorance, it was willful ignorance. Remember, the campaign against health reform has, at every stage, grabbed hold of any and every argument it could find against insuring the uninsured, with truth and logic never entering into the matter.
那么坎托是在骗人？还是他对政策的基本原理一无所知，也不愿意去亲眼看看报告，直接就开始宣扬自己对报告的错误解读？已经无所谓了——因为即便是一无所知，那也是有意的一无所知。别忘了，反医保改革运动在每一个阶段都是这样，抓住一切由头，竭尽全力阻止没有保险的人得到保险，此事与真相和逻辑从来无关。
Think about it. We had the nonexistent death panels. We had false claims that the Affordable Care Act will cause the deficit to balloon. We had supposed horror stories about ordinary Americans facing huge rate increases, stories that collapsed under scrutiny. And now we have a fairly innocuous technical estimate misrepresented as a tale of massive economic damage.
想想就知道了。我们听到了莫须有的死亡委员会。我们听到了《合理医疗费用法案》会造成赤字剧增的错误论断。我们听到了美国普通百姓的保费会增加的恐怖故事，这个故事经过我们的审视已经被推翻。如今我们又见到，一个不痛不痒的技术性预测，被曲解成一个大规模经济破坏的故事。
Meanwhile, the reality is that American health reform — flawed and incomplete though it is — is making steady progress. No, millions of Americans won’t lose their jobs, but tens of millions will gain the security of knowing that they can get and afford the health care they need.
与此同时，在现实世界里，美国的医保改革尽管有瑕疵和缺失，却是在稳步向前的。不会有数百万美国人失去工作，不会的，倒是有数以千万计的美国人将得到一种安全感，他们现在知道自己可以得到、且负担得起所需的医疗保险了。