WASHINGTON — During a private meeting with congressional leaders on Monday, President Trump asserted that between three million and five million unauthorized immigrants had voted for his Democratic opponent and robbed him of a victory in the national popular vote.
华盛顿——周一同国会领袖举行私人会面期间，特朗普总统宣称有300万到500万的非法移民把票投给了他的民主党对手，致使他未能在全国普选中获胜。
There is no evidence to support the claim, which has been discredited repeatedly by numerous fact-checkers.
没有证据支持这一说法，它遭到了很多事实核查者的多次质疑。
That did not stop Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, from standing by the president’s words on Tuesday during a briefing with reporters at the White House. “As I said, I think the president has believed that for a while based on studies and information he has,” Mr. Spicer said.
但这并没有阻止白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周二在白宫的新闻发布会上支持总统的说法。“如我所说，我认为总统基于有关研究和他掌握的情报，有这个想法已经有一段时间了，”斯潘塞说道。
That much appears to be true. Mr. Trump repeatedly raised doubts about the integrity of the American voting system in the period before the election in November and has falsely said since his victory that millions of people voted illegally.
在很大程度上似乎的确如此。在11月的选举之前，特朗普多次对美国选举制度的诚信提出质疑，胜选后又谎称数百万人非法投票。
Pressed to present the evidence on Tuesday, Mr. Spicer appeared to conflate two different studies that Mr. Trump’s staff had previously cited in defending his claim. “There’s one that came out of Pew in 2008 that showed 14 percent of people who voted were noncitizens,” Mr. Spicer said. “There’s other studies that have been presented to him.”
周二被要求拿出证据时，斯派塞似乎是把两项不同的研究放到了一起。之前，特朗普的工作人员在为他的说法辩解时就提到了这两项研究。“皮尤在2008年进行的一项研究表明，14%的投票者是非公民，”斯派塞说。“他还拿到了其他一些研究。”
Here are the facts
事实如下
Neither study Mr. Spicer apparently referred to supports Mr. Trump’s claim.
斯派塞提到的两项研究均无法支持特朗普的说法。
The first study was conducted in 2014 by professors at Old Dominion University and discussed on Monkey Cage, a blog hosted by The Washington Post. Using data from the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, the researchers found that 14 percent of noncitizens who responded to the survey in 2008 and 2010 said they were registered to vote.
第一项研究是欧道明大学(Old Dominion University)的多位教授在2014年进行的，并在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)主办的博客Monkey Cage上进行了讨论。研究人员利用来自合作国会选举研究(Cooperative Congressional Election Study)的数据发现，在2008年和2010年，接受调查的非公民中14%的人自称进行了投票登记。
The problem is that the study relied on flawed data and was roundly criticized by political scientists who said that a more careful examination of the data revealed no evidence that noncitizens had voted in recent elections.
问题是这项研究是建立在错误数据基础之上的，受到了政治学者的严厉指责。他们称对相关数据进行了更细致的研究后，没有发现非公民在最近的选举中投票的证据。
The second study, conducted in 2012 by the Pew Center on the States, found that 24 million voter registrations were no longer valid or “significantly inaccurate”; that more than 1.8 million dead people were still listed on the voter rolls; and that almost three million were registered in multiple states, probably because they had moved from one state to another.
第二项研究是皮尤中心所属的Pew Center on the States在2012年进行的。这项研究发现，2400万选民登记失效或“严重不准确”，超过180万已死去的人仍在选民名单上，并且近300万人在多个州登记，这可能是因为他们从一个州搬去了另一个州。
The study did not find evidence that those errors led to voter fraud, however, simply that they presented avoidable costs and inefficiencies in the electoral process.
然而，研究并没有发现这些错误造成了选举舞弊的证据，只是证明它们给选举带来了本可以避免的成本和低效。
The primary author of the study, David Becker, made that plain in a Twitter post in November.
研究论文的第一作者戴维·贝克尔(David Becker)在11月的一条推文中阐明了这一点。
On Tuesday, he wrote on Twitter that voting integrity in the November election had in fact improved.
周二，他在Twitter上写道，实际上在11月那场选举中，选举诚信已得到改善。
The absence of studies supporting the claim is not all that is working against Mr. Trump. Election and law enforcement officials all over the country, who monitored reports of voter fraud state by state, have said they found no credible evidence of widespread fraud.
对特朗普不利的不仅仅是没有研究支持他的说法。全美负责监测各州选举舞弊情况的选举和执法官员表示，他们没有发现存在大规模舞弊现象的可靠证据。
The reaction in Congress
国会的反应
Mr. Trump’s assertion likewise found little backing from his Republican colleagues on Capitol Hill.
在国会山，特朗普的说法同样几乎没有得到共和党同僚的支持。
“I’ve seen no evidence to that effect,” House Speaker Paul D. Ryan told reporters on Monday when asked about the purported voter fraud.
“总的来说我没有看到证据，”众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)周一被问及传闻中的选举舞弊时对记者说。
In an interview with CNN, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, urged Mr. Trump to “knock this off.”
在接受CNN的采访时，南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)劝特朗普“停下来”。
“This is going to erode his ability to govern this country if he does not stop it,” Mr. Graham said, adding that the president needed to present evidence for his beliefs if he was going to continue to profess them.
“如果不停下来，这会削弱他治理这个国家的能力，”格雷厄姆说，并接着表示如果要继续声称这些说法，总统需要拿出证据来证明它们。
Others simply deflected questions about Mr. Trump’s claims.
其他人则回避了有关特朗普相关说法的提问。
Asked about the accuracy of the president’s assessment, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, chose to answer a question no one had asked.
被问及总统看法的准确性时，肯塔基州参议员、多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)选择了答非所问。
“It does occur,” he said of voter fraud, declining to quantify the scope. “There are always arguments on both sides about how much, how frequent and all the rest.”
“的确会发生这种事，”他指的是选举舞弊，但拒绝量化它的规模。“关于规模多大、频率多高和其他的方方面面，双方永远各执一词。”