We all know how democracy is supposed to work. Politicians are supposed to campaign on the issues, and an informed public is supposed to cast its votes based on those issues, with some allowance for the politicians’ perceived character and competence.
我们都知道民主制度在设想中应该如何运作。政治人物理应围绕议题发起竞选活动，而知情的公众应以这些议题为本，投下他们的选票，并在一定程度上允许对政治人物之个性和胜任能力的看法影响自己的决定。
We also all know that the reality falls far short of the ideal. Voters are often misinformed, and politicians aren’t reliably truthful. Still, we like to imagine that voters generally get it right in the end, and that politicians are eventually held accountable for what they do.
我们还知道，现实与理想总是差距甚远。选民往往遭到误导，而政客也并非始终诚实。不过我们还是情愿设想，选民大体上总归会做出正确选择，而政客们最终也会为其所作所为承担责任。
But is even this modified, more realistic vision of democracy in action still relevant? Or has our political system been so degraded by misinformation and disinformation that it can no longer function?
可是，就算这种修正后更加现实的民主观，在实际操作中还有意义吗？抑或是说，我们的政治体系已被错误的信息，甚至是蓄意炮制的谎言，腐蚀得无法运行了？
Well, consider the case of the budget deficit — an issue that dominated Washington discussion for almost three years, although it has recently receded.
比如，我们来考虑预算赤字这一案例——这是过去三年主宰了华盛顿的一项议题，虽然最近对它的关注有所降低。
You probably won’t be surprised to hear that voters are poorly informed about the deficit. But you may be surprised by just how misinformed.
选民对赤字问题缺乏了解，这恐怕不会让你吃惊。但会让你吃惊的，是他们被误导的程度。
In a well-known paper with the discouraging title, “It Feels Like We’re Thinking,” the political scientists Christopher Achen and Larry Bartels reported on a 1996 survey that asked voters whether the budget deficit had increased or decreased under President Clinton. In fact, the deficit was down sharply, but a plurality of voters — and a majority of Republicans — believed that it had gone up.
在一篇广为流传、题目令人气馁的论文《我们只是貌似在思考》中，政治学家克里斯托弗·艾琛(Christopher Achen)和拉里·巴特尔斯(Larry Bartels)总结了1996年一项选民调查。该调查问道，克林顿总统任期内，预算赤字是增加还是减少了。实际情况是，赤字出现了大幅下降，但不少选民——包括多数共和党成员——认为当时赤字是上升的。
I wondered on my blog what a similar survey would show today, with the deficit falling even faster than it did in the 1990s. Ask and ye shall receive: Hal Varian, the chief economist of Google, offered to run a Google Consumer Survey — a service the company normally sells to market researchers — on the question. So we asked whether the deficit has gone up or down since January 2010. And the results were even worse than in 1996: A majority of those who replied said the deficit has gone up, with more than 40 percent saying that it has gone up a lot. Only 12 percent answered correctly that it has gone down a lot.
我在自己的博客上问道，在赤字比90年代削减得更快的今天，类似调查会得出何种结果。果然如《新约》所言，“你们祈求，就给你们”：谷歌(Google)的首席经济学家哈尔·范里安(Hal Varian)主动提出针对此问题进行一项谷歌消费者调查——这通常是该公司向市场研究人士提供的有偿服务。于是我们提问道，自2010年1月以来，赤字增加了还是减少了。调查结果比1996年还要糟糕：多数回答者称赤字上升了，而且超过40%的参与者认为上升幅度很大。只有12%的人正确地回答，赤字大幅减少。
Am I saying that voters are stupid? Not at all. People have lives, jobs, children to raise. They’re not going to sit down with Congressional Budget Office reports. Instead, they rely on what they hear from authority figures. The problem is that much of what they hear is misleading if not outright false.
我这是在说选民都很蠢吗？绝非如此。人们有自己的生活、工作，还要生儿育女，他们不会坐下来细读国会预算办公室的报告，而要依靠听取权威人物的看法。问题是，他们所到的内容中，有很多误导成分，甚至纯属谎言。
The outright falsehoods, you won’t be surprised to learn, tend to be politically motivated. In those 1996 data, Republicans were much more likely than Democrats to hold false views about the deficit, and the same must surely be true today. After all, Republicans made a lot of political hay over a supposedly runaway deficit early in the Obama administration, and they have maintained the same rhetoric even as the deficit has plunged. Thus Eric Cantor, the third-ranking Republican in the House, declared on Fox News that we have a “growing deficit,” while Senator Rand Paul told Bloomberg Businessweek that we’re running “a trillion-dollar deficit every year.”
彻底谎言的产生通常受到政治动机推动，这并不出人意料。前述1996年的数据中，相比民主党人，共和党人对赤字问题持有错误观念的可能性要远远超出，而现在想必也一样。毕竟在奥巴马任期之初，共和党针对假想中的赤字飙升，制造了大量政治噪音。而且，即使赤字已经大幅缩减了，他们仍然一直坚持同样的论调。于是，共和党的三号人物埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)通过福克斯新闻台(Fox News)宣称，我们出现了“赤字增长”，而参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)对《彭博商务周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)说，我们“每年产生万亿美元的赤字”。
Do people like Mr. Cantor or Mr. Paul know that what they’re saying isn’t true? Do they care? Probably not. In Stephen Colbert’s famous formulation, claims about runaway deficits may not be true, but they have truthiness, and that’s all that matters.
坎托先生和保罗先生这样的人知道他们所说并非事实吗？他们在乎吗？或许不在乎。依照斯蒂芬·柯尔伯(Stephen Colbert)著名的表述，有关赤字飙升的说法或许并不真实，但有“真实感”，而这才是最重要的。
Still, aren’t there umpires for this sort of thing — trusted, nonpartisan authorities who can and will call out purveyors of falsehood? Once upon a time, I think, there were. But these days the partisan divide runs very deep, and even those who try to play umpire seem afraid to call out falsehood. Incredibly, the fact-checking site PolitiFact rated Mr. Cantor’s flatly false statement as “half true.”
不过，在这种事情上难道没有裁判——受信任、非党派、有能力也有意愿揭发谎言兜售者的权威人士？曾几何时，我认为是有的。但现今，党派对立已无比严重。而且，连那些努力当裁判的人似乎也害怕揭露谎言。难以置信的是，事实查证网站PolitiFact也给坎托彻头彻尾的假话打出了“半真”的评级。
Now, Washington still does have some “wise men,” people who are treated with special deference by the news media. But when it comes to the issue of the deficit, the supposed wise men turn out to be part of the problem. People like Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, the co-chairmen of President Obama’s deficit commission, did a lot to feed public anxiety about the deficit when it was high. Their report was ominously titled “The Moment of Truth.” So have they changed their tune as the deficit has come down? No — so it’s no surprise that the narrative of runaway deficits remains even though the budget reality has completely changed.
现在，华盛顿方面还有一些“智者”，他们能得到媒体的特殊敬重。可是一涉及赤字问题，我们就能发现，所谓的智者也是问题的一部分。像奥巴马总统的赤字委员会联席主席阿兰·辛普森(Alan Simpson)和埃尔斯肯·鲍尔斯(Erskine Bowles)那样的人物，在赤字高企的时期对公众做了不少煽动赤字恐慌的事情。他们的报告起了一个令人不安的标题——《真相时刻》(The Moment of Truth)。那么，随着赤字的减少，他们可曾改口呢？没有。因此，即使预算领域的现实情况已完全改变，“赤字飙升”的说法还深入人心，也就不奇怪了。
Put it all together, and it’s a discouraging picture. We have an ill-informed or misinformed electorate, politicians who gleefully add to the misinformation and watchdogs who are afraid to bark. And to the extent that there are widely respected, not-too-partisan players, they seem to be fostering, not fixing, the public’s false impressions.
总体观之，这是一幅令人失望的图景。我们的选举人不是不了解情况，就是获得了错误信息，政客兴高采烈地制造更多谎言，而“看门狗”却不敢叫出声。而且，我们虽然在某种程度上还算是有受尊敬、不过分偏倚党派的人物，他们却似乎并没有修正，反而是强化了公众的错误印象。
So what should we be doing? Keep pounding away at the truth, I guess, and hope it breaks through. But it’s hard not to wonder how this system is supposed to work.
那么我们该做些什么？我想，只能坚持为真相鸣锣呐喊，希望它能打破谎言和无知。但我们很难不为这个体制究竟应该如何运作而感到困惑。