North Korea’s claim that it set off a hydrogen bomb on Wednesday — in what would be the fourth time it has tested a nuclear weapon since 2006 — has stirred concerns among governments around the world. Below is a brief primer on some of the central issues at stake.
朝鲜声称于周三引爆氢弹，这是自2006年以来该国进行的第四次核试验。这一声明已经引起了世界各国政府的担忧。以下是一些核心的紧要问题。
Q. What, precisely, did North Korea announce?
问：确切来说，朝鲜宣布了什么？
A. The North’s government said that it had detonated a hydrogen bomb — its first — at 10 a.m. on Wednesday.
答：朝鲜政府称，他们已于周三上午10点引爆了第一颗氢弹。
“This test is a measure for self-defense the D.P.R.K. has taken to firmly protect the sovereignty of the country and the vital right of the nation from the ever-growing nuclear threat and blackmail by the U.S.-led hostile forces and to reliably safeguard the peace on the Korean Peninsula and regional security,” it said, referring to the North’s formal name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
“核试验是DPRK采取的自卫措施。面对以美国为首等敌对势力日益增长的核威胁和恐吓，如此我们才能坚决维护国家主权和重要权力，才能确实地维护朝鲜半岛的和平和区域安全，”声明称，其中提及的DPRK为朝鲜的正式名称“朝鲜民主主义人民共和国”的缩写。
Q. How is a hydrogen bomb different from an atomic bomb?
问：氢弹跟原子弹有什么不同？
A. A hydrogen bomb, also known as a thermonuclear bomb, combines hydrogen isotopes under extremely high temperatures to form helium, in a process known as nuclear fusion. It is more powerful than a conventional atomic weapon: It uses the energy released from the combination of two light atomic nuclei, while an atomic bomb uses the energy released when a heavy atomic nucleus splits, a process known as nuclear fission. American scientists developed the hydrogen bomb, which was first tested in 1952.
答：氢弹又名热核弹，在极高温度下把氢的同位素结合生成氦气，这个过程名为核聚变。氢弹比传统原子武器的威力更为强大：它用的是两个轻原子核结合时释放的能量，而原子弹用的是一个重原子核分裂时释放的能量，这个过程名为核裂变。美国科学家研发了氢弹，并在1952年首次进行试验。
Q. How can North Korea’s claim be verified? 
问：怎样才能查证朝鲜声明的真伪？
A. Governments and scientists are working to see if the claim is true.
答：各国政府和科学家正在努力查证声明是否属实。
The United States Geological Survey reported that it detected a magnitude-5.1 seismic event in the northeastern part of North Korea, where the test is said to have occurred — roughly similar to what happened in 2013, when North Korea tested an atomic bomb. But a South Korean lawmaker, Lee Cheol-woo, said that his country’s intelligence service estimated the event triggered an explosive yield of six kilotons and a magnitude-4.8 event — smaller than the 7.9 kilotons and magnitude 4.9 reported after the 2013 test.
美国地质调查局(United States Geological Survey)报告称，当局在朝鲜东北部探测到5.1级地震，那里是据称进行核试验的地点——震级与2013年朝鲜进行原子弹爆炸试验时大致相同。但韩国议员李哲禹(Lee Cheol-woo)表示，据韩国情报部门估算，该试验的爆炸当量为6000吨，引发了4.8级地震——小于2013年试验的7900吨和4.9级。
A successful hydrogen bomb test would typically have an explosive yield of hundreds of kilotons — or tens of kilotons, for a failed test — Mr. Lee said.
李哲禹说，一次成功的氢弹爆炸试验通常可达数百万吨的爆炸当量，即使试验失败了也有数十万吨爆炸当量。
Q. What if it was not a hydrogen bomb?
问：那会不会不是氢弹？
A. When Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, announced in December that his country had finally developed the technology to build a thermonuclear weapon, experts were skeptical. Some said that North Korea might be preparing to test a “boosted-fission weapon,” more powerful than a traditional atomic bomb. Designers can easily increase the destructive power of an atomic bomb by putting at its core a small amount of tritium, a radioactive form of hydrogen. The Yonhap News Agency of South Korea reported that the government in Seoul was leaning toward the theory of a boosted-fission weapon, “one level away from a hydrogen bomb.”
答：当朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在12月宣布该国终于成功研发制造热核武器的技术时，专家就持怀疑态度。有人说，朝鲜准备试验的可能是“助爆型裂变武器”，这种武器比传统原子弹的威力更强。透过在原子弹核心加入少量的氚——氢的一种放射性同位素——设计人员便能轻易地加强原子弹的破坏力。韩联社报道，韩国政府倾向于助爆型裂变武器这个推测，“比氢弹差了一个层次。”
Q. How many times has North Korea detonated a nuclear weapon?
问：朝鲜曾几次引爆核武器？
A. This appears to be the fourth time. North Korea conducted underground nuclear tests on Oct. 9, 2006; May 25, 2009; and Feb. 12, 2013.
答：看起来这次是第四次。朝鲜在2006年10月9日、2009年5月25日和2013年2月12日进行过地下核试验。
Q. What might North Korea be trying to accomplish with its threats?
问：朝鲜意图利用这些威胁来达成什么目的？
A. In the past, United States administrations and South Korean governments managed to tamp down periodic heightened tensions with North Korea by offering concessions, including much-needed aid, in return for the North’s promising to end its nuclear weapons programs. Many analysts believe that North Korea is again seeking aid and other concessions, while some suggest that it merely wants to be recognized as a nuclear state, like Pakistan.
答：在过去，美国和韩国政府通过提供对方急需的援助等让步，平息了朝鲜周期性加剧的紧张局势，以换取朝鲜终止其核武器计划的可能性。许多分析人士认为，朝鲜再次在寻求援助和其他让步，而有些人则认为，朝鲜只是希望像巴基斯坦一样被承认为核国家。
Still others suggest that the North genuinely fears an attack by the United States or South Korea and views the warnings as deterrence. Highlighting a perceived threat from abroad is also a favorite tool the North Korean government uses to ensure internal cohesion in an impoverished country that has experienced enormous privation, including devastating famine and continuing pervasive hunger.
还有人认为朝鲜真的担心美国和韩国发动攻击，认为它们的警告是对其威慑。朝鲜政府也喜欢利用突出国外潜在威胁的手段，以确保内部凝聚力。朝鲜曾经历严重的物资匮乏，包括毁灭性的饥荒以及至今仍很普遍的粮食不足。
Q. Could North Korea attack the United States?
问：朝鲜会攻击美国吗？
A. Maybe. In 2012, North Korea launched a rocket that put its first satellite into orbit — raising the possibility of intercontinental ballistic missiles that could reach North America. The United Nations Security Council condemned the launching as a violation of several Security Council resolutions and tightened sanctions against it.
答：有可能。2012年，朝鲜发射火箭，把它的第一颗人造卫星送入轨道。这提高了将洲际弹道导弹发射到北美洲的可能性。联合国安理会谴责火箭发射违反了若干安理会决议，并加紧制裁行为。
Q. How might the United States, China, Japan and South Korea respond to a missile test or an attack?
问：如果出现导弹试验或导弹攻击，美国、中国、日本和韩国会作何反应？
A. If a missile attack went into the water, even if it passed over Japan, the two countries could ignore it. But if it headed for land, the United States would probably use its missile interception technology, including on Aegis-equipped ships off the Korean coast. If there were to be a more direct attack, like the torpedo that sank a South Korean warship in 2010, it is likely that both the United States and South Korea would respond. China would be less likely to take action.
答：如果导弹发射到海里，即使它经过日本上空，两国都可能对此视而不见。但是，如果它的目标是陆地，美国可能会使用它的导弹拦截技术，包括部署在朝鲜半岛海岸线的军舰配备的宙斯盾系统。如果是更直接的攻击，像2010年那样用鱼雷击沉一艘韩国军舰，美国和韩国都很有可能会作出回应。中国采取行动的可能性较小。
Q. What was the global response to previous North Korean rocket launchings?
问：以前全球对朝鲜发射火箭有什么反应？
A. As the North’s missile technology has become more sophisticated, the launching of longer-range missiles has evoked more international concern.
答：朝鲜导弹技术日益成熟，发射中远程导弹引起了更多国际关注。
In 1998, when the North launched a Taepodong that flew over Japan, Japan temporarily cut off its contribution toward a North Korean energy project. But in July 2006, when the North launched another long-range missile, various countries began imposing sanctions, while the Security Council began adding to economic sanctions.
1998年，朝鲜发射大浦洞型导弹飞越日本上空，日本暂时切断了支援朝鲜的能源项目。但在2006年7月，朝鲜又发射了一枚远程导弹，各国就开始实施制裁，而安理会则开始了经济制裁。
In April 2009, when the North’s efforts to launch a three-stage Unha-2 rocket failed, the Security Council said it would strengthen punitive measures. It did so after the North conducted a nuclear test the next month.
2009年4月，朝鲜“银河二号”(Unha-2)三级火箭发射失败。安理会表示将加强惩罚措施。朝鲜在同年5月进行核试验后，安理会就加强了惩罚措施。
In April 2012, the United States canceled planned food aid when the North tried to launch a more advanced missile, the Unha-3. That launching failed, but another in December succeeded in lifting a small satellite into orbit. The Security Council tightened sanctions yet again. After the North’s nuclear test in February 2012, China, the North’s longtime protector, participated in writing painful new sanctions aimed at North Korean banking, trade and travel.
2012年4月，朝鲜试图发射更先进的“银河三号”(Unha-3)导弹，美国就取消了计划中的粮食援助。那次导弹发射失败了，但在同年12月发射的另一枚火箭则成功把一颗小人造卫星送入轨道。安理会再次收紧制裁。朝鲜在2012年2月进行核试验后，一向保护朝鲜的中国也参与制定了严厉的制裁措施。这些新措施旨在制裁朝鲜的银行、贸易和旅游。
Q. What is the Obama administration’s policy on North Korea?
问：奥巴马政府对朝鲜采取什么政策？
A. The Obama administration adopted a policy of “strategic patience” in 2009, under which direct negotiations or offers of aid to Pyongyang are withheld unless the North Korea leadership shows “positive, constructive behavior” and willingness to negotiate over the dismantling of its nuclear weapons program.
答：2009年，奥巴马政府采取了“战略忍耐”政策，比如拒绝进行直接谈判或为朝鲜提供援助，除非朝鲜领导层展现出“积极且具有建设性的行为”，以及就废除核武器项目进行谈判的意愿。
The policy is a response to the American belief that the United States had unwisely offered aid, often in the wake of Pyongyang’s provocations, or struck agreements with the North on which the North later reneged. Strategic patience, in the words of Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary, grew out of a desire not “to buy the same horse twice.”
采取这种政策是因为美国人相信，此前美国会提供援助或与朝鲜达成协议，而且往往是在平壤方面的威胁之下，但那是不明智的，因为朝鲜后来会违背协议。用前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)的话来说，采用战略忍耐政策，是因为不想“为同一匹马花两次的钱”。
Critics say that while the policy has allowed the United States to weather multiple rounds of belligerence by Kim Jong-il and his son, Kim Jong-un, without making concessions, it has done little to curb the development of North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.
批评人士表示，虽然该政策使得美国经受住金正日(Kim Jong-il)及其儿子金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的多次挑衅，不做退让，但它没能遏制朝鲜的核武器项目。
Q. What sanctions are currently in place?
问：目前采取了哪些制裁举措？
A. The Security Council has passed four resolutions since 2006 aimed at penalizing North Korea for its nuclear weapons program. In addition, the United States, which remains in a technical state of war with North Korea, has imposed its own regimen of strict economic sanctions. The combined effects have severely squeezed, but not crippled, North Korea’s economy. The United Nations has prohibited the North from conducting nuclear tests or launching ballistic missiles, requested that it abandon all future efforts to pursue nuclear weapons and urged it to return to negotiations with China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States, the so-called six-party talks.
答：自2006年以来，安理会已经通过四次决议，就核武器项目问题处罚朝鲜。除此之外，美国方面实施了严厉的经济制裁举措。严格来说，美国和朝鲜依然处于战争状态。这些举措令朝鲜承受重压，但没有重创朝鲜的经济。联合国禁止朝鲜进行核试验或发射弹道导弹，要求朝鲜放弃未来研发核武器的计划，并敦促朝鲜重返所谓的六方会谈——参与方包括中国、日本、俄罗斯、韩国和美国。
The resolutions have also imposed embargoes on large-scale arms, weapons-related research and development materials, and luxury goods; banned many types of financial transactions including transfers of cash; placed new restrictions on diplomats; and created monitoring mechanisms for enforcement.
这些决议还禁止向朝鲜大规模出口武器、与武器相关的研发材料及奢侈品；禁止转移现金等各种金融交易；对外交人员施加新限制；并建立了协议执行的监督机制。
The American sanctions freeze all North Korean property interests in the United States, ban most imports of goods and services from the North, and prohibit American dealings with any names on a blacklist of North Korean businesses and individuals suspected of illicit activities including money laundering, counterfeiting, currency smuggling and narcotics trafficking.
美国的制裁举措包括冻结朝鲜在美国的所有财产利益，禁止进口朝鲜提供的大部分商品和服务，并禁止美国人与任何登上黑名单的朝鲜公司及涉嫌参与洗钱、伪造货币、走私货币及贩运毒品等非法活动的人员开展贸易。
Nothing in the American sanctions prohibits American travel to North Korea or the export of food and other types of humanitarian aid, although there are some restrictions.
美国的制裁举措并没有禁止美国人前往朝鲜，没有禁止对朝鲜出口食物及其他形式的人道主义援助，尽管进行了一定的限制。
The sanctions leave room for considerable trade in many types of goods and services. China, which supplies much of North Korea’s basic needs, is not in any violation of the United Nations resolutions.
这些举措为多种商品和服务的大量交易留下余地。中国在没有违反联合国的任何决议的情况下，满足了朝鲜的很多基本需要。
Q. How is the South Korean government responding to the North’s threats?
问：韩国政府对朝鲜的威胁做出何种回应？
A. President Park Geun-hye, who took office in 2013, is the daughter of a former president who ran South Korea as a dictator during the Cold War. She once promised that if the North mounted a nuclear attack, its government would be “erased from the earth.” She has largely held a firm line on North Korea, after a more conciliatory stance in the 1990s.
答：朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)从2013年开始执政，她的父亲曾在冷战期间担任韩国总统，实行独裁统治。她曾承诺，如果朝鲜发动核攻击，朝鲜政府将被“从地球上抹去”。韩国在20世纪90年代在朝鲜问题上采取比较温和的立场，但朴槿惠上台后基本上是强硬的。
From 1998 to 2008, the South pursued a “sunshine policy” of reconciliation and economic cooperation that sent billions of dollars in business investments, goods and humanitarian aid to the North. Ms. Park’s immediate predecessor, Lee Myung-bak, said the North would need to give up its nuclear weapons to receive any more aid. But he was criticized for what many saw as a weak response after the North shelled a South Korean island in 2010, killing four people.
从1998年到2008年，韩国奉行与朝鲜进行和解、开展经济合作的“阳光政策”，向朝鲜提供数十亿美元的商业投资、商品及人道主义援助。前任总统李明博(Lee Myung-bak)表示，如果朝鲜想获得更多援助，就需要放弃核武器。但朝鲜在2010年向韩国岛屿开炮导致四人死亡，很多人批评李明博对该事件的回应非常软弱。
Q. Why hasn’t China stopped North Korea from its campaign of threats? Is there any other country that has enough influence on North Korea to stop it?
问：中国为什么没能阻止朝鲜的威胁性行动？还有其他国家能有足够大的影响力来阻止它吗？
A. China, the North’s patron, has long feared that a collapse of the North Korean government could lead to a unified Korea allied with the United States.
答：中国作为朝鲜的庇护者，一直担心朝鲜政府垮台会导致朝鲜半岛统一，与美国结盟。
China helped write and backed the most recent round of United Nations sanctions, but it has been loath to push the North too hard. Its patience with the North may be running out, but even China may have only limited information about the machinations within the Pyongyang government.
中国帮助制定并支持联合国最新一轮的制裁举措，但不愿太逼迫朝鲜。中国对朝鲜的耐心或许已经耗尽，但对于朝鲜政府在盘算什么，连中国都不见得有充分了解。
Q. Why are relations so bad between North and South Korea?
问：朝鲜和韩国的关系为何如此糟糕？
A. After the United States and the Soviet Union divided the Korean Peninsula at the end of World War II in 1945, they helped install rival governments in Seoul and Pyongyang. Each asserted claims to the whole of Korea. The two fought the 1950-53 Korean War, which ended not in a peace treaty but a truce. Mutual mistrust runs deep, although there have been intermittent attempts at political reconciliation and economic cooperation.
答：1945年二战结束后，美国和苏联将朝鲜半岛分割，帮助在首尔和平壤设立相互对立的政府。双方都声称对整个朝鲜半岛拥有主权。两国在1950年至1953年发动朝鲜战争，最终签署停战协定，而不是和平条约。这种互不信任的形势不断加剧，尽管两国在政治和解及经济合作方面断断续续地进行尝试。
Q. How did the North get nuclear weapons?
问：朝鲜是如何获得核武器的？
A. The project started under Kim Il-sung, the country’s founder and the grandfather of the current leader. Mr. Kim knew that Gen. Douglas MacArthur wanted Washington to allow the use of nuclear weapons against Chinese and North Korean troops during the Korean War.
答：朝鲜的核项目是在该国开国领袖、金正恩的祖父金日成(Kim Il-sung)执政时期启动的。金日成知道，道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟上将(Gen. Douglas MacArthur)曾经希望华盛顿允许军队在朝鲜战争期间对中国和朝鲜军队使用核武器。
By the 1980s, American intelligence satellites were watching the nuclear complex at Yongbyon come together. Relations between the United States and the North grew especially tense over the issue in 1994, and some in the White House feared a war could break out. A pact was eventually hammered out that year, the Agreed Framework, but it fell apart in 2002, during the George W. Bush administration, partly over allegations the North was cheating on its agreements and developing another path to a bomb. In 2006, the North conducted its first nuclear test, a partial fizzle. But the subsequent tests were more successful.
到20世纪80年代，美国情报卫星观察到宁边建起核设施。1994年，美国和朝鲜的关系因为该问题变得愈发紧张，白宫的一些官员担心会爆发战争。那一年最终达成《框架协议》(Agreed Framework)，但该协议在2002年也就是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)执政时期破裂，部分是因为美国指控朝鲜违背协议，发展另一种制造炸弹的途径。朝鲜在2006年进行首次核试验，部分上是失败的。但后来的试验都比较成功。