The Islamic State and its atrocities — beheadings, mass executions, the enslavement of women and children, and the destruction of cultural antiquities — are in the headlines every day now. The terror group not only continues to roll through the Middle East, expanding from Iraq and Syria into Libya and Yemen, but has also gained dangerous new affiliates in Egypt and Nigeria and continues to recruit foreign fighters through its sophisticated use of social media.
如今，我们每天都能在报纸头条看到伊斯兰国的名字及其暴行——斩首、大规模处决、奴役妇女儿童、摧毁文化古迹。这个恐怖集团不仅席卷中东，把势力范围从伊拉克与叙利亚扩展到利比亚和也门，也在埃及和尼日利亚发展危险的新机构，继续娴熟地运用社交媒体招募外国战士。
Given the ascendance of the Islamic State (also known as ISIS or ISIL), it’s startling to recall that in January 2014, President Obama referred to it as a “J.V. team,” suggesting that it did not pose anywhere near the sort of threat that Al Qaeda did.
基地组织伊斯兰国（也称ISIS或ISIL）的崛起如此之快，人们不禁会震惊地回想起，就在2014年1月，奥巴马总统还将它称为“低年级校队”，说它的威胁完全不能和基地组织相提并论。
Since then, yards of copy and scores of pixels have been devoted to trying to chronicle and comprehend the group. Two new books pull together and analyze a lot of material on it. Although much of their coverage (on matters like the organization’s use of social media, its fueling of sectarian hatred and its combination of ultraviolence with civil governance) will be familiar to those who follow the news, the authors do nimble jobs of turning their copious research and their own expertise on terrorism into coherent, accessible narratives that leave us with an understanding of the Islamic State’s history and metastasis, and its modus operandi.
从那以后，用来记录或研究这个组织的文字与图片就有如车载斗量。如今，两本新书把这些素材组织起来并进行阐释。尽管对于关注这方面新闻的人来说，书中许多内容可能是他们所熟悉的（比如这个组织如何使用社交媒体、如何刺激宗派仇恨、如何把极端暴力与民事管理结合起来），但这两位作者聪明地把大量研究工作和自己对恐怖主义的专业知识结合起来，成为条理分明、可读性强的叙事，帮助我们理解伊斯兰国的历史与变迁，乃至它的特殊行事方式。
“ISIS: Inside the Army of Terror” by the journalists Michael Weiss and Hassan Hassan, draws upon the authors’ extensive reporting — including interviews with dozens of ISIS associates in Iraq and Syria, among them religious clerics, fighters, security officials and sympathizers — to give readers a fine-grained look at the organization’s evolution through assorted incarnations (Al Qaeda in Iraq, the Mujahidin Advisory Council and the Islamic State of Iraq) and its operations today.
《ISIS: 恐怖军队内部》(ISIS: Inside the Army of Terror)是由记者迈克尔·韦斯(Michael Weiss)与哈桑·哈桑(Hassan Hassan)所著，该书建立在两位记者范围广泛的新闻报道之上，其中包括对ISIS在伊拉克与叙利亚的几十名合作者的访谈，这些人当中有宗教人士、战士、安保官员和ISIS的同情者。这本书堪称一幅逻辑严密的全景，令读者看到这个组织是如何在各式各样的前身（包括伊拉克基地组织、圣战者协商委员会和伊拉克伊斯兰国）基础之上发展起来，以及它在今日如何运作。
“ISIS: The State of Terror” by the Harvard terrorism scholar Jessica Stern and J. M. Berger, a contributor to Foreign Policy magazine, covers much of the same ground but with less granular detail. The authors also offer some vague recommendations on how they think the West should deal with the Islamic State: focus on “containment and constriction” rather than overwhelming military force, and exert more effective control of the digital battleground. (“Our power over the Internet is the equivalent of being able to control the weather in a ground war.”)
《ISIS:恐怖之国》(ISIS: The State of Terror)是由哈佛大学专门研究恐怖主义的学者杰西卡·斯特恩(Jessica Stern)与《外交政策》(Foreign Policy)杂志撰稿人J·M·伯格(J. M. Berger)合著，它与上一本书的基础大致相同，但细节并不那么丰富。对于西方世界的对策，这本书的两位作者也给出了一些大致的建议：应当致力于“牵制与遏制”，而非投入压倒性的军事力量，并且要在数码领域进行更有效的控制（“我们如果有了控制互联网的力量，就等于有了在战争中控制天气的力量”）。
The most compelling sections of the Stern-Berger book are devoted to comparing ISIS and Al Qaeda. The authors describe Al Qaeda as an exclusive “vanguard movement,” a “cabal that saw itself as the elite intellectual leaders of a global ideological revolution that it would assist and manipulate.” Through the 1990s, they write, Al Qaeda “grew into a corporation, with a payroll and benefits department, and operatives who traveled around the world inserting themselves into local conflicts.”
斯特恩-伯格这本书最精彩的部分是把ISIS和基地组织做对比的章节。两人把基地组织比作孤立的“先驱运动”，“一个自视为精英知识分子的阴谋小集团，领导全球意识形态革命，并对之进行援助和操纵”。他们写道，整个20世纪90年代，基地组织“成了一个公司式的团体，有工资名单和福利部门，工作人员周游世界，见缝插针，介入当地冲突”。
ISIS, in contrast, is more of a populist start-up operation. Online, Ms. Stern and Mr. Berger note, “it amassed and empowered a ‘smart mob’ of supporters,” polling “its constituents and making shrewd calls about when to listen and who could safely be ignored.”
相反，ISIS更像是由民粹主义者启动的行为。斯特恩和伯格写道，在网上，“它们召集起‘一群聪明的’支持者，并且给予他们力量，”他们还“对‘选民’进行投票调查，精明地判断何时应该倾听，什么样的人可以完全无视。”
Al Qaeda’s vision for the restoration of the Islamic caliphate, they write, “is framed squarely in the long term” — “an idealized future that its leaders did not expect to see realized in their lifetimes.” Using “a classic extremist trope” (the defense of one’s own identity group against aggression), the authors assert, Osama bin Laden’s organization “framed its pitch to potential recruits in more relatable terms as ‘doing the right thing.’ ”
他们写道，基地组织将恢复伊斯兰王权视为“一项一板一眼的长期工程”——“是一个理想化的未来，基地组织的领导者们并不指望自己有生之年能够亲眼见到”。作者认为，通过使用“典型的极端主义修辞”（保卫一个人自身所属的群体不受侵犯），奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的组织“用‘做正确的事’之类与人们更加切身相关的词语，为招募潜在新人奠定了基调”。
The Islamic State, Mr. Berger and Ms. Stern say, dispensed with such intellectual argumentation and instead emphasized horrific violence (which served to stimulate and attract disaffected, angry young men) combined with the promise of a building “a Muslim society with all the trappings.” This utopian vision of “food aplenty, industry, banks, schools, health care, social services, pothole repair — even a nursing home with the insurgents’ unmistakable black flag draped over the walls,” they write, served as “a call for noncombatants, men and women alike, to build a nation-state alongside the warriors, with a role for engineers, doctors, filmmakers, sysadmins, and even traffic cops.”
伯格和斯特恩写道，伊斯兰国摈弃了这种知性的思辨，强调恐怖暴力（这是为了刺激和吸引心怀不满与愤怒的年轻男人），并且承诺建立“一个穆斯林社会，且具备其所有外部特征”。这个乌托邦式的王国有“丰盛的食物、工业、银行、学校、卫生保健、社会服务、道路维修——甚至还有疗养院，四壁悬挂着叛乱者们鲜明的黑色旗帜”，他们写道，这个王国“召唤着所有非战斗人员、男人与女人，来建立一个单一民族国家，除了战士，也担负起工程师、医生、电影导演、系统管理员，甚至是交通警察的角色”。
Mr. Weiss and Mr. Hassan describe the Islamic State not only as a terrorist organization but also as “a slick propaganda machine effective at disseminating its message,” “a mafia adept at exploiting decades-old transnational gray markets for oil and arms trafficking,” a “conventional military that mobilizes and deploys foot soldiers” with professional acumen, and a “sophisticated intelligence-gathering apparatus that infiltrates rival organizations and silently recruits within their ranks before taking them over.”
韦斯与哈桑的书把伊斯兰国不仅描述为一个恐怖主义组织，也描述为“一个精巧的宣传机器，能够有效地散布它的信息”、“一个黑帮组织，擅长利用拥有几十年历史的跨国灰色是由与武器交易市场”、“一个传统军事力量，擅长调度和组织步兵”，并且极具军事头脑，此外它还是“一群聪明老练的人集合起来组成的机构，能渗透到与之竞争的组织中去，从内部静悄悄地招募新成员，直至将其彻底接管。”
As Mr. Weiss and Mr. Hassan see it, many reluctant supporters regard the Islamic State as “the only option on offer for Sunni Muslims who have been dealt a dismal hand in the past decade — first losing control of Iraq and now suffering nationwide atrocities, which many equate to genocide, in Syria. They view the struggle in the Middle East as one between Sunnis and an Iranian-led coalition, and they justify ultraviolence as a necessary tool to counterbalance or deter Shia hegemony.” The Islamic State has viciously exploited this sense of sectarian grievance, trying to fan the flames of civil war and incite Shia militias to violence — which the group could then hold up as proof to Sunnis that they “have no hope but the caliphate.”
韦斯和哈桑指出，许多勉强的伊斯兰国支持者们都认为“过去十年里，逊尼派穆斯林处境凄凉，先是丧失了对伊拉克的控制，如今又在叙利亚忍受着全国性的暴行，很多都相当于种族灭绝，伊斯兰国是他们唯一的选择。他们视中东战争为逊尼派与一个伊朗领导下的联盟之间的冲突，他们将极端暴力视为一种取得平衡，或遏制什叶派霸权的必要工具。”伊斯兰国恶意利用这种宗派的不满情绪，煽风点火，挑动内战，刺激什叶派民兵采取暴力行动——然后就可以把这些暴力行为作为证据，让逊尼派觉得“除了伊斯兰王国之外别无希望”。
These books note that in Iraq the sectarianism of Nuri Kamal al-Maliki (a polarizing figure who as prime minister increasingly moved to disenfranchise Sunnis and purge prominent Sunni leaders from the government) served only to push more Sunnis into the embrace of the Islamic State.
两本书都指出，努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)是个两极化的人物，身为伊拉克总理，他日渐剥夺逊尼派的公民权利，从政府中清理著名的逊尼派领袖，他的宗派主义只能把更多逊尼派人士推向伊斯兰国的怀抱。
Both books also provide lucid assessments of the role that missteps and disastrous decision-making on the part of the United States played in fueling the rise of the Islamic State and its antecedents and affiliates. Ms. Stern and Mr. Berger write that the 2003 invasion of Iraq “reinforced jihadi claims about America’s hegemonic designs on the Middle East, providing a recruiting bonanza at a time when the terrorists needed it most.” They add that “while some politicians wanted to see Iraq during the allied invasion as a roach motel, we see it more like a hornet’s nest — with allied bombs and bullets spreading the hornets ever further, throughout the region and beyond.”
两本书也都清醒地评估了美国的错误与灾难性的决策在促使伊斯兰国、乃至其前身和旁系的崛起中扮演的角色。斯特恩与伯格写道，2003年入侵伊拉克“加强了伊斯兰圣战的呼声，要求推翻美国在中东的霸权，为恐怖主义者提供了丰富的信任资源，这正是他们最需要的。”他们还说，“有些政客在盟军入侵期间将伊拉克视为廉价旅馆，我们却将其视为一个马蜂窝——盟军的炮弹与子弹只是让马蜂飞得更远，遍及这一地区，乃至更多地方。”
The occupation and postwar planning would prove equally disastrous. Both books remind us that decisions announced by L. Paul Bremer III, the top American civilian administrator in Iraq, in 2003 — to dissolve the Iraqi Army and to ban Baath Party members from government — resulted in huge numbers of angry, unemployed Iraqis, easily recruited into a burgeoning insurgency and a dangerous lack of security. In fact, Mr. Weiss and Mr. Hassan contend that most of the Islamic State’s “top decision makers served in Saddam Hussein’s military or security services,” and in that sense, “ ‘secular’ Baathism has returned to Iraq under the guise of Islamic fundamentalism.”
盟军的占领与战后计划同样是灾难性的。两本书都提醒我们，2003年，美国驻伊拉克最高民事长官L·保罗·布雷默三世(L. Paul Bremer III)所做的一系列决定——解散伊拉克军队，禁止阿拉伯社会复兴党进入政府——导致愤怒、失业的伊拉克人迅速增长，他们特别容易被吸纳到新兴的叛乱组织中去，人心惶惶，缺乏安全感。事实上，韦斯和哈桑主张，大多数伊斯兰国的“顶尖决策者都曾在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的军队或保安系统中服役，”因此，“‘现世的’阿拉伯社会复兴主义在伊斯兰原教旨主义的伪装下再度回到了伊拉克。”
Finally, both books point out that the United States’ withdrawal of troops from Iraq in 2011 and the Obama administration’s political disengagement have had lasting consequences for what Mr. Weiss and Mr. Hassan call “the country’s future instability.”
最后，两本书都指出，美国2011年从伊拉克撤军，以及奥巴马政府的政治脱离政策会产生持续性后果，会导致韦斯与哈桑所谓的“这个国家未来的不稳定状态”。
“The rise of ISIS,” Mr. Berger and Ms. Stern conclude, “is to some extent, the unintended consequence of Western intervention in Iraq. Coalition forces removed a brutal dictator from power, but they also broke the Iraqi state. The West lacked the patience, the will, and the wisdom to build a new, inclusive one. What remained were ruins.” They quote King Abdullah II of Jordan saying that the battle with ISIS will be a “generational fight.”
伯格与斯特恩总结道，“ISIS的崛起，在某种程度上是西方介入伊拉克后，无意中所产生的后果。联合武装令一个残忍的独裁者倒台，但他们也破坏了伊拉克的国体。西方世界缺乏耐心、意志与智慧，无法去建立一个崭新而包容的国家。那里仍然是废墟一片。”他们援引约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世的话——与ISIS的斗争将是“持续整整一代人的斗争”。