This time, they say, Einstein might really be wrong.
他们说，这次爱因斯坦(Einstein)恐怕真的错了。
A high-octane debate has broken out among the world’s physicists about what would happen if you jumped into a black hole, a fearsome gravitational monster that can swallow matter, energy and even light. You would die, of course, but how? Crushed smaller than a dust mote by monstrous gravity, as astronomers and science fiction writers have been telling us for decades? Or flash-fried by a firewall of energy, as an alarming new calculation seems to indicate?
全球的物理学家之间爆发了一场炙烈的论辩，争论的焦点是，如果你跳进黑洞——这头令人胆寒，能吞噬物质、能量，甚至连光也不放过的引力怪兽——会发生什么？当然，你不免一死，但怎么死呢？是像天文学家和科幻作家们几十年来告诉我们的那样，被强大无比的引力压缩成比尘埃还细小的微粒？还是像一番惊心动魄的新计算似乎指出的那样，被一道高能火墙瞬间烧死？
This dire-sounding debate has spawned a profusion of papers, blog posts and workshops over the last year. At stake is not Einstein’s reputation, which is after all secure, or even the efficacy of our iPhones, but perhaps the basis of his general theory of relativity, the theory of gravity, on which our understanding of the universe is based. Or some other fundamental long-established principle of nature might have to be abandoned, but physicists don’t agree on which one, and they have been flip-flopping and changing positions almost weekly, with no resolution in sight.
去年一年中，这场听起来很可怕的辩论，制造了大量的论文和博客文章，以及多场研讨会。要紧的问题不是爱因斯坦的名望（他的名望已不可动摇），也不是我们手中的iPhone的效力，但或许是爱因斯坦的引力理论——广义相对论的基石，我们对宇宙的认识都基于这一理论。或者一些其他的建立以久的自然法则也许会被放弃，但具体是哪一个，物理学家尚无一致意见。他们在这个问题上的观点反反复复，几乎每周都会改变一次，而且目前看来不会很快有定论。
“I was a yo-yo on this,” said one of the more prolific authors in the field, Leonard Susskind of Stanford. He paused and added, “I haven’t changed my mind in a few months now.”
“在这个问题上，我过去就好像溜溜球一般摇摆不定，”该领域著述颇丰的研究者，斯坦福大学(Standford)的莱昂纳德·萨斯金德(Leonard Susskind)说。他停顿片刻后又说道：“最近几个月来我还没有改变过主意。”
Raphael Bousso, a theorist at the University of California, Berkeley, said, “I’ve never been so surprised. I don’t know what to expect.”
加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的理论物理学家拉菲尔·鲍索(Raphael Bousso)说：“我从来没有感到如此震惊过，真不知道该期待什么结果。”
You might wonder who cares, especially if encountering a black hole is not on your calendar. But some of the basic tenets of modern science and of Einstein’s theory are at stake in the “firewall paradox,” as it is known.
或许你会想，谁在乎这事？毕竟遭遇黑洞不是你日程上的待办事项。但所谓的“火墙悖论”关系到的是现代科学的一些基本宗旨，以及爱因斯坦广义相对论的一些内容。
“It points to something missing in our understanding of gravity,” said Joseph Polchinski, of the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics in Santa Barbara, Calif., one of the theorists who set off this confusion.
“它表明我们对引力的认识存在缺陷，”位于加州圣芭芭拉市的卡弗里理论物理研究所(Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics)的理论物理学家约瑟夫·波尔钦斯基(Joseph Polchinski)说，他是引起这场困惑的理论家之一。
Down this rabbit hole are many of the jazzy magical mysteries of modern physics: Black holes. The shortcuts through space and time called wormholes. Quantum entanglement, also known as spooky action at a distance, in which particles separated by light-years can still instantaneously appear to remain connected. The reward for going down this hole could be a new understanding of why we think we live in a universe with space and time at all, with suitably unpredictable consequences. After all, if Einstein hadn’t been troubled a century ago by logical inconsistencies in the Newtonian universe, we might not have GPS systems, which rely on his theory of general relativity to keep time, in our pockets today.
就像《爱丽斯漫游奇境记》中的兔子洞一般，这里充满了现代物理学中光怪陆离的神奇奥妙：黑洞；穿越时空的被称为“虫洞”的捷径；还有量子纠缠(quantum entanglement)，它又有“鬼魅般的超距作用”这一称呼，意思是相隔数光年之远的粒子仍可表现得瞬息相联。进入这个魔洞可能得到的回报无法预料，也许会是我们对一个问题的新认识：我们究竟为什么会觉得自己所在的宇宙有着时间和空间。这种新认识所能带来的后果同样无法预料。毕竟，假如一个世纪前爱因斯坦不曾对牛顿力学宇宙观中的不自洽之处感到困惑，我们今天也许就不会有能随身携带的全球定位系统(GPS)，这个系统靠他的广义相对论原理来计时。
Falling Bodies
自由落体
Black holes are the most extreme predictions of Einstein’s theory, which describes how matter and energy warp the geometry of space and time the way a heavy sleeper causes a mattress to sag. Too much matter and energy in one place could cause space to sag so far that the matter inside it would disappear as if behind a magician’s cloak, collapsing endlessly to a point of infinite density known as a singularity. Einstein thought that idea was ridiculous when it was pointed out to him at the time, in 1916, but today astronomers agree that the universe is speckled with such dark monsters, including beasts lurking in the hearts of most galaxies that are millions and billions of time more massive than the Sun. Many of them resulted from the collapse of dead stars.
黑洞是广义相对论最为极端的理论预言。广义相对论描述了物质和能量如何让时空几何发生弯曲，就像一个很重的人睡在床上会让床垫凹下去那样。物质和能量过度集中在一处，可能导致太空的“凹陷”程度如此之大，以至于其中的物质会像被魔术师的斗篷隐匿了起来似地消失掉，朝着被称为“奇点”的无穷大密度点不断地坍缩。1916年，有人向爱因斯坦指出这种可能时，他认为那是一个荒谬的想法；但当今的天文学家认同这一观点：宇宙中四处散落着这种漆黑的怪物，有很多这种黑兽潜藏在大多数星系的中心，它们的质量是太阳的数百万乃至数十亿倍，许多是死亡恒星塌缩的产物。
General relativity is based on what Einstein later called his “happiest thought,” that a freely falling person would not feel his weight. It is known simply as the equivalence principle; it says that empty space looks the same everywhere and to everyone.
广义相对论来自爱因斯坦后来称之为自己“最快乐的思想”：正在自由下落的人感觉不到其自身的重量。它被简单地称为“等效原理”，意思是没有物质的空间，在任何地方、从任何观察角度看上去都是一样的。
One consequence of this principle is that an astronaut would not feel anything special happening when he fell through the point of no return, known as the event horizon, into a black hole. Like a bungee jumper, he would feel weightless then and all the way until he hit the bottom, which could take seconds or years depending on how big the hole was, and he would be stretched like a noodle by tidal forces and then crushed into a speck. At the event horizon there would be “no drama,” in the lexicon — at least in the physical sense, as opposed to the intellectual trauma of knowing you were not ever going home. Things or people went in, they got crushed to infinite density and disappeared. That was the traditional view of black holes.
此原理的一条推论是，当一位宇航员跨过名为“事件视界”的不归点、进入黑洞时，他自己不会感觉到有任何特殊的事情在发生。就像玩蹦极跳的人一样，他会有失重感，这种感觉一直持续到他探底的时刻，这段旅程的时间可以是几秒钟也可以是数年，要看黑洞有多大，他也会被潮汐力拉得像根面条一样，然后被碾压成一粒微尘。用行话说来，事件视界之处“没有戏剧”——至少从物理学的角度来看，当然不是说知道自己再也不能回家时，所感受到的精神创伤。东西或人掉进去，被碾压到无穷大密度而消失了，这就是对黑洞的传统认识。
Things got more interesting, however, in 1974 when Stephen Hawking, the British cosmologist, stunned the world by showing that when the paradoxical quantum laws that describe subatomic behavior were taken into account, black holes would leak particles and radiation, and in fact eventually explode, although for a hole the mass of a star it would take longer than the age of the universe.
不过，1974年英国宇宙学家斯蒂芬·霍金(Stephen Hawking)让情况变得更有趣。他的研究结果震撼了世界，他发现，如果把描述亚原子行为、不符合常识的量子物理定律考虑进来的话，那么黑洞也会泄漏出粒子和辐射，而且最终会爆发，尽管恒星质量大小的黑洞走完这个过程所需的时间比宇宙目前的年龄还要长久。
This was a breakthrough in combining general relativity, the gravity that curves the cosmos, with quantum theory, which describes the microscopic quirkiness inside it, but there was a big hitch. Dr. Hawking concluded that the radiation coming from a black hole would be completely random, conveying no information about what had fallen into it. When the black hole finally exploded, all that information would be erased from the universe forever. “God not only plays dice with the universe,” Dr. Hawking said in 1976 in a riposte to Einstein’s famous doubts about the randomness of quantum theory, “he sometimes throws them where they can’t be seen.”
把描述致使时空弯曲的引力的广义相对论，与描述其中微观奇异行为的量子理论结合起来，是霍金的一项突破。不过，这里面也有个大麻烦。霍金的结论是，来自一个黑洞的辐射会是完全随机的，不包含任何有关落入其中物体的信息。当黑洞最终爆发时，那些信息将在宇宙中彻底消失。霍金1976年戏仿爱因斯坦对量子理论随机性的著名质疑说道，“上帝不仅和宇宙玩掷骰子，他有时候还把骰子掷到看不见的地方。”
Particle physicists cried foul, saying that this violated a basic tenet of modern science and of quantum theory, that information is always preserved. From the material in the smoke and flames of a burning book, for example, one could figure out whether it was the Bible or the Kama Sutra; the same should be true of the fizz and pop of black holes, these physicists argued. A 30-year controversy ensued.
粒子物理学家对此表示强烈反对，称霍金的观点违背了现代科学和量子理论的一个基本原则，那就是信息总是被保存下来。比如说，从烧一本书产生的烟与火的成分里，原则上应该能判断出这本书是基督教《圣经》还是古印度《爱经》(Kama Sutra)。这些物理学家辩称，黑洞释放出的火苗和烟圈按理也应该包含信息。长达30年的论争因此拉开了帷幕。
It was front-page news in 2004 when Dr. Hawking finally said that he had been wrong, and paid off a bet.
2004年，霍金终于承认他原来的观点错了，并因此还付了一笔输了的赌注，这在当时是头条新闻。
The Firewall Paradox
火墙悖论
Now, however, some physicists say that Dr. Hawking might have conceded too soon. “He had good reason,” said Dr. Polchinski, “but he gave up for the wrong reason.” Nobody, he explained, had yet figured out exactly how information does get out of a black hole.
然而，最近有些物理学家称，霍金当年恐怕认输过早了点。 “他提出那个观点是有好理由的，但他放弃观点的理由是错误的”，波尔钦斯基说，他解释道，目前还没人把信息到底会如何从黑洞中出来的问题搞清楚。
That was the task that four researchers based in Santa Barbara — Ahmed Almheiri, Donald Marolf, and James Sully, all from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Dr. Polchinski of the Kavli Institute set themselves a year ago. The team (called AMPS, after their initials) found, to their surprise, that following the known laws of physics would lead to a contradiction, the firewall paradox.
而这正是身在圣芭芭拉的四位研究人员给自己下的任务，他们中的艾哈迈德·艾尔姆赫里(Ahmed Almheiri)、唐纳德·马洛尔夫(Donald Marolf)、和詹姆斯·萨利(James Sully)来自加州大学圣芭芭拉分校，而波尔钦斯基则来自卡弗里研究所。这个自称“AMPS”(取自四人姓氏的首字母)的团队做出了让自己都吃惊的发现：从已知的物理定律出发，会得出自相矛盾的“火墙悖论”。
Their calculations showed that having information flowing out of a black hole was incompatible with having an otherwise smooth Einsteinian space-time at its boundary, the event horizon. In its place would be a discontinuity in the vacuum that would manifest itself as energetic particles — a “firewall” — lurking just inside the black hole.
他们的计算表明，如果让信息从黑洞外流，那么在黑洞边界处，原本平滑的爱因斯坦时空（即事件视界）就不可能存在。取而代之的是真空的不连续性，表现为隐藏于黑洞内表的高能粒子——一道“火墙”。
Being incinerated as you entered a black hole would certainly contradict Einstein’s dictum of no drama. If this were true, you would in fact die long before the bungee-jumping ride ever got anywhere close to the bottom. The existence of a firewall would mean that the horizon, which according to general relativity is just empty space, is a special place, pulling the rug out from under Einstein’s principle, his theory of gravity, and modern cosmology, which is based on general relativity. This presented the scientists with what Dr. Bousso calls the “menu from hell.” If the firewall argument was right, one of three ideas that lie at the heart and soul of modern physics, had to be wrong. Either information can be lost after all; Einstein’s principle of equivalence is wrong; or quantum field theory, which describes how elementary particles and forces interact, is wrong and needs fixing. Abandoning any one of these would be revolutionary or appalling or both.
落入黑洞时被烧成灰烬，当然与爱因斯坦“没有戏剧”的论断相矛盾。如果这个结论是对的，那么你在进入黑洞的蹦极之旅中，早在远离触底的地方就没命了。如果火墙存在，那将会意味着，视界是一个很特殊的地方，而不是广义相对论所认为的那个什么东西都没有的空间。火墙的存在将动摇爱因斯坦原理的基石，也动摇他的引力理论的基石，因此会动摇建立在广义相对论之上的现代宇宙学的基石。用鲍索的话说，这相当于给科学家们提供了一本“地狱菜谱”。如果火墙说正确，那么处于现代物理学核心地位的三个概念中有一个就必须是错的。要么是信息毕竟可以丢失，要么是爱因斯坦的等效原理有问题，要么是描述基本粒子和基本力如何相互作用的量子场论是错的，需要修正。
Quantum Vows
量子誓言
The firewall argument hinges on one of the weirder aspects of quantum physics, the action called entanglement. As Einstein, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen pointed out in 1935, quantum theory predicts that a pair of particles can be connected in such a way that measuring a property of one — its direction of spin, say — will immediately affect the results of measuring the other one, even if it is light-years away.
火墙论据所依赖的是量子物理中更诡异的一个东西，即被称为“纠缠”的作用。正如爱因斯坦、鲍里斯·波多尔斯基(Boris Podolsky)和内森·罗森(Nathan Rosen)在1935年所指出的，量子理论预言，一对粒子可以有这样一种关联方式，不管两个粒子相距多少个光年，测量其中一个粒子的某种特性，比如自旋，会立刻影响到另一个粒子的测量结果。
Einstein used this “spooky action at a distance” to suggest the absurdity of quantum mechanics, but such experiments are now done in labs every day. You can’t use it to send a message faster than light, because the correlation shows up only when the two experimenters get together and compare their respective results. But it plays a crucial role in quantum computing and cryptography — and, it turns out, in explaining how information encoded in the Hawking radiation gets out of a black hole.
爱因斯坦曾用这种“鬼魅般的超距作用”来暗示量子力学的荒谬，但如今，这种实验每天都在实验室中进行。你不能靠它来用比光速还快的速度传递信息，因为只有当两个做实验者相会，比较各自的结果时，才能看到这种关联。但是，纠缠在量子计算和密码学中起关键作用，而且现在看来，纠缠在解释霍金辐射中隐含的信息如何逃离黑洞上，也很关键。
Consider two particles (let’s call them Bob and Alice) that have been radiated by a black hole. Bob left it eons ago, as it began leaking radiation; quantum entanglement theory dictates that in order for the black hole to keep track of what information it has been transmitting, Bob out there has to be entangled with Alice, who just left.
让我们考虑一下黑洞辐射出的两个粒子，不妨分别称它们为鲍伯[Bob]和爱丽丝[Alice]。鲍伯在很久以前就离开了黑洞，也就是在黑洞开始泄露辐射时；量子纠缠理论要求，如果让黑洞记住自己一直在传递什么信息，远远的鲍伯必须与刚离开黑洞的爱丽丝纠缠在一起。
But that scenario competes with another kind of entanglement, between particles on either side of the event horizon, the black hole’s boundary. If space is indeed smooth, as Einstein postulated, and if quantum field theory is correct, Alice must be entangled with another particle, Ted, who is just inside the black hole.
但这种情况会与另一种纠缠竞争，也就是分别位于事件视界（即黑洞边界）两边的粒子之间的纠缠。如果太空像爱因斯坦假设的那样是平滑的，而且量子场论是正确的，那么爱丽丝就必须与尚在黑洞内的另一个粒子特德(Ted)纠缠在一起。
But quantum theory forbids promiscuous entanglements. In the language of quantum information, Alice can marry either Bob or Ted, but not both, even if the second marriage happens inside the black hole where most of us can’t see it.
但量子理论禁止乱交式的纠缠。把量子信息用通俗的语言来解释可以这么说，爱丽丝或者与鲍伯结婚，或者与特德结婚，但不能与两者都结婚，哪怕与特德的婚姻发生在黑洞里边，在我们大部分人都看不到的地方。
Alice should have a consistent explanation of the universe, Dr. Polchinski explained, “just as we ourselves must, even though we are inside the cosmic horizon.”
波尔钦斯基说，爱丽丝对宇宙必须有一个没有矛盾的解释，“就像我们自己必须做的那样，虽然我们处在宇宙视界中。
Meanwhile, physicists have more reason than ever to think that information cannot be lost. A celebrated 1997 paper by Juan M. Maldacena of the Institute for Advanced Study describes nature as a kind of hologram, in which the information about what happens inside a volume of three-dimensional space, for example, is encoded in quantum equations on its two-dimensional boundary, the way a 3-D image is encoded on the face of your bank card.
与此同时，物理学家有比以往任何时候都多的理由相信，信息不可能消失。1997年，普林斯顿高等研究院的胡安·M·马尔达塞纳(Juan M. Maldacena)发表过一篇赫赫有名的论文，把大自然描绘成一种全息图，其中，比如有关一个三维空间内部发生什么的信息，是编码在这个空间的二维界面上的量子方程中的，就像一个3D图像被编码在你的银行卡上面那样。
Mark Van Raamsdonk, a young theorist at the University of British Columbia, likes to use a spookier analogy to describe this, namely the chip that controls a Matrix-like video game. (Feel free to insert your own woo-woo music here.)
加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)的年轻理论物理学家马克·范拉姆斯东克(Mark Van Raamsdonk)喜欢用一个更吓人的比喻来描述这个概念，即控制类似于《黑客帝国》(Matrix)的视频游戏的芯片。（请自己选择可怕的音乐伴奏。）
The discovery that the information needed to describe what happens in some volume is proportional to the area enclosing that volume is the strangest and most far-reaching consequence of Dr. Hawking’s discovery that black holes explode, and is still wreathed in mystery.
霍金发现黑洞爆炸后，其理论最奇怪、也是影响最深远的后果就是，描述某个空间中发生什么所需的信息，与把那个空间包含起来的面积成正比，这一发现仍笼罩在神秘的面纱之下。
Dr. Maldacena’s universe is often portrayed like a can of soup, in which galaxies, black holes, gravity, stars and so forth, including us, are the soup inside, while the information to describe them resides, like a label, on the outside. Think of it as gravity in a can. The equations that represent the label are deterministic and there is no room in them for information to be lost, implying that information in the universe inside is also preserved.
马尔达塞纳常把宇宙比喻为一个汤罐头，星系、黑洞、重力、恒星等，包括我们在内，是装在罐头里的汤，而描述这些物质的信息像是贴在罐头外面的标签。你可以把它想象成用罐头包装的引力。代表标签的方程是确定性的，方程中没有能让信息遗失的余地，这也就意味着，宇宙内部的信息必须被保留。
Which leaves the firewall as the only way to stop the illegal marriage of Alice and Ted, Dr. Polchinski said — an odious solution because it contravenes the basic principle of general relativity.
波尔钦斯基说，这样一来，火墙就成了阻止爱丽丝与特德非法结婚的唯一办法，这是一种令人讨厌的解决办法，因为它违反广义相对论的基本原则。
Recently a new way of solving the firewall conundrum and of answering that haunting question has attracted a lot of attention, although no consensus. Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind have proposed that Einstein could come to his own rescue via one more far-out notion in modern physics: wormholes.
最近，一个解决火墙难题、以及回答那个萦绕问题的新方法引起了大量的关注，但这个方法没能让人们形成一致的意见。马尔达塞纳和苏斯金德提出，爱因斯坦可以用在现代物理学中的另一个异想天开的概念实现自救，就是“虫洞”。
In 1935 Einstein and Rosen found that, mathematically anyway, black holes could come in pairs connected by shortcuts through space — then known as Einstein-Rosen bridges, now known as wormholes. A wormhole would not be traversable by any means we now know about, ruling out time travel and other violations of relativity, despite the dreams of science fiction writers and interstellar pioneers.
1935年，爱因斯坦和罗森发现，至少在数学上，黑洞可以成对出现，它们由太空中的捷径连接起来，这种捷径当时被称作爱因斯坦-罗森桥，现在被称作虫洞。虽然科幻小说作者和星际探索者有过诸多梦想，但用我们目前已知的所有方法都无法穿越虫洞，这就排除了穿越时间旅行和其他违背相对论的可能性。
In 2010, Dr. Van Raamsdonk of British Columbia suggested that such wormholes were the geometric manifestations of quantum entanglement. After all, neither of these phenomena, which seemed to transcend local space, could be used for sending direct messages. Brian Swingle at M.I.T. had made a similar suggestion a year earlier.
2010年，不列颠哥伦比亚大学的范拉姆斯东克提出，这种虫洞是量子纠缠的几何表现。毕竟，这两种似乎超越了局部空间的现象，都不能用来直接传递信息。麻省理工学院的布赖恩·施温格(Brian Swingle)此前一年也提出过类似的想法。
In effect, what these theorists were saying was that without the phenomenon of entanglement, space-time would have no structure at all. Or as Dr. Maldacena put it, “Spooky action at a distance creates space-time.” If true, this insight would be a step toward a longtime dream of theorists of explaining how space and time emerge from some more basic property of reality, in this case, bits of quantum information. The theorist John Wheeler, of Princeton, who had coined the term “black hole,” called this concept “it from bit.”
 其实，这些理论学家说的是，如果没有纠缠现象，时空就根本不会有结构。或者正如马尔达塞纳所说，“鬼魅般的超距作用创造了时间和空间。”如果真是这样，这一深刻见解是朝着理论学家的一个长久的梦想迈出的一步。他们梦想解释空间和时间如何由已有的一些更基本的性质所产生，在纠缠理论中，更基本的性质是量子信息。普林斯顿大学的理论物理学家约翰·惠勒(John Wheeler)是“黑洞”这个词的发明者，他把这个概念称为“时空源于比特”。
Taking this idea seriously, Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind proposed that a similar kind of wormhole arrangement existed between the black hole in the AMPS case and its Hawking radiation. Instead of a tunnel snaking through hyperspace and opening at the maw of another black hole, the wormhole would split into a zillion spaghetti-like strands ending on each of the pieces of Hawking radiation. That would mean that Bob, the Hawking particle in the cartoon version of the theory mentioned above, might be light years away from the event horizon, but he would still be connected to the interior of the black hole, as if there were a doorway in New Jersey that opened up into a basement in Manhattan.
把虫洞概念进一步延伸，马尔达塞纳和苏斯金德提出，在AMPS理论的黑洞和霍金辐射之间存在一种类似虫洞安排。这种安排不是那种蜿蜒穿越超时空、在另一端与黑洞内部相连的隧道，而是分裂成千丝万缕的类似于意大利面条的连接，每个连接都连到霍金辐射的一个碎片上。这就意味着，在前文中提到的卡通版理论中，虽然霍金粒子鲍勃也许与事件视界相去数个光年之远，但他仍与黑洞的内部相连，就好像是在新泽西州有一扇门，打开它能直接通到曼哈顿的一间地下室似的。
Because of this wormhole connection, Dr. Maldacena explained, “Ted and Bob are the same.” So the result is sort of like the happy ending of one of those screwball romantic comedies that involve mistaken identity and the handsome vagabond turns out to be the prince in disguise; Alice can marry Ted who is really Bob and the bonds of matrimony extend smoothly across the edge of the black hole.
马尔达塞纳解释说，由于有这个虫洞连接， “特德和鲍伯是同一个人。”其结果有点像疯狂浪漫喜剧，尽管其中充满了身份误会，但结局皆大欢喜：英俊的流浪汉原来是王子乔装的。爱丽丝可以跟特德结婚，因为他其实就是鲍勃，婚姻的纽带顺利地延伸到了黑洞之外。
Entangled Theories
纠缠理论
Dr. Maldacena and Dr. Susskind admit that the wormhole hypothesis is still a work in progress. Few of their colleagues are convinced yet that it has been formulated in sufficient detail, let alone that it can solve the firewall paradox. “All I can say,” Dr. Susskind said in an e-mail on the eve of a firewall workshop next week at the Kavli Institute where wormholes and everything else will surely be scrutinized, “is that no one has a completely solid case and that certainly includes me. Time will tell.”
马尔达塞纳和苏斯金德都承认，他们的虫洞假说并不完善。同行中几乎没人相信这个假说的描述足够详细，更不用说用它来解决火墙悖论了。一个火墙研讨会下周将在卡弗里研究所(Kavli Institute)举行，届时人们肯定会给虫洞以及所有的理论挑刺儿。苏斯金德在研讨会开幕前给记者的一封电子邮件中表示：“我只能说，还没有任何人能给出一个完全扎实的理论，当然也包括我。任何理论只能靠时间来检验。”
Dr. Polchinski said, “My current thinking is that all the arguments that we are having are the kind of arguments that you make when you don’t have a theory.” We need a more complete theory of gravity, he concluded.
波尔钦斯基说，“我目前的看法是，我们现在之所以有这么多的争论，是因为还没有一个理论。”他总结称，我们需要有一个更完整的引力理论。
“Maybe ‘space-time from entanglement’ is the right place to start,” he wrote. “I am not sure.”
他写道，“也许‘时空来自纠缠'是一个正确的起点，不过，我不能肯定。”
Dr. Bousso, who has been e-mailing with Dr. Maldacena, is skeptical that the wormholes will eliminate firewalls. “My own view is that it’s time to move on, accept, and actually understand firewalls,” he said. After all, he added, there’s no principle of nonviolence in the universe, except for Einstein’s equivalence principle, which says the black hole’s horizon is not a special place. But maybe it is, after all.
鲍索一直在用电子信跟马尔达塞纳交流，他对虫洞能消除火墙的提法有怀疑。他说，“我本人的看法是，结束争论的时候到了，我们应该接受火墙的概念，从而开始真正了解火墙。”他补充说，毕竟宇宙中没有非暴力原则，除了爱因斯坦的等效原理之外，该原理说黑洞的视界不是一个特殊的地方。但也许它是一个特殊的地方。
Meanwhile, Dr. Bousso said, the present debate had raised his estimation, “by another few notches,” of the “stupendous magnitude” of Dr. Hawking’s original discovery of the information paradox.
不过，鲍索说，目前的争论让他对霍金最初发现的信息悖论的“重大意义”的估计又提高了“几个级别”。
The firewall paradox,” he said, “tells us that the conceptual cost of getting information back out of a black hole is even more revolutionary than most of us had believed.”
他说，“火墙悖论告诉我们，从一个黑洞里取回信息的概念成本，比我们大多数人认为的更为惊人。”