WASHINGTON — Watching a seat-back display with a plane-shaped icon gliding across the map, it is easy to forget that in true scale, the airplane is very small and the route very large. As the hours and days drag by with no trace of the Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared over the Gulf of Thailand early Saturday, the world is getting a reminder that if something goes wrong on a jet five miles up in the sky, traveling at 10 miles a minute, it can cover a lot of ground — or water — before it comes down to earth.
华盛顿——看着座椅靠背显示屏上的飞机图标在地图上滑行，人们很容易忘记，飞机实际上非常小，飞机执飞的航线范围却非常广阔。时间一天天过去，周六凌晨在泰国湾上空消失的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)那架航班依然没有下落，全世界这才想了起来，如果一架以每分钟10英里（约合16公里）的速度在5英里高空飞行的飞机真的出了什么问题，它在坠落前飞过的陆地或是水域——将会非常广阔。
So far there is only speculation about what happened to the missing flight, which was headed to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur. But Arnie Reiner, a retired captain with US Airways and the former chief accident investigator at Pan Am, noted, “If they somehow got turned around or went off course when the thing was going down, it could be 90 or 100 miles away from where the flight data disappeared.”
这架消失的航班究竟发生了什么事情，目前还是只有猜测。该航班从吉隆坡起飞，目的地是北京。不过，全美航空(US Airways)退休机长、泛美航空(Pan Am)前首席事故调查员阿尼·赖纳(Arnie Reiner)指出，“如果飞机在下降过程中莫名其妙地调了头或是偏离了航线，出事地点可能会在飞行数据消失时飞机所在地90或100英里开外的地方。”
It is not yet known whether the Malaysian plane deviated from its planned flight path, or how long the pilots could still fly the aircraft after the last reported contact. Assuming that the plane remained in powered flight or a controlled glide, the potential search area would have to be wide and long, covering thousands of square miles. After more than two days of fruitless search, Malaysian officials expanded the search area on Monday.
尚不清楚这架马来西亚飞机是否偏离了预定航线，也不清楚飞行员在最后一次联系后还能驾驶飞机飞多久。假设飞机依然是在动力的支持下飞行，或是在飞行员的控制下滑翔，潜在搜救范围将会非常大，覆盖数千平方英里的区域。两天多一无所获的搜救之后，马来西亚官员周一扩大了搜救范围。
The rule of thumb for a crew planning a normal descent to an airport is to allow three miles of distance for every thousand feet of altitude. So a jetliner at 30,000 feet that cut its engines to idle would fly another 90 miles or so before reaching a runway near sea level.
对计划正常降落在某个机场的机组成员而言，经验法则是，高度每下降三千英尺，相应地要有三英里的水平飞行距离。因此，如果一架在3万英尺高空飞行的飞机关闭引擎滑行下降，它将会再飞大约90英里，然后才能抵达高度接近海平面的跑道。
Not all planes that go down at sea prove difficult to locate. When Egyptair Flight 990 crashed 60 miles from Nantucket Island on Oct. 31, 1999, investigators quickly concluded that the aircraft, a Boeing 767, had followed a straight track, and Navy searchers picked up signals from the “pingers” on the aircraft’s black box data recorders the next day.
事实证明，并非所有坠海飞机都难以寻找。1999年10月31日，埃及航空(Egyptair)990航班在距南塔克特岛60英里的地方坠毁，调查人员很快断定那架失事的波音767飞机是在沿直线飞行。第二天，海军搜救人员就接收到了飞机黑匣子数据记录仪的声脉冲发送器发出的信号。
But extended searches are sometimes needed. When Air France Flight 447 vanished over the Atlantic in June 2009, it took five days to find any wreckage, and almost two years to find the black boxes. Similarly, the cockpit data recorder from a South African Airways Boeing 747 that went down in November 1987 was not located until January 1989. It revealed that the plane crashed because of a fire onboard, not because of an act of terrorism, so no further search was conducted for the flight data recorder, the other black box.
然而，有时候确实需要一个漫长的搜索过程。法国航空公司的447次班机于2009年6月在大西洋上空消失之后，人们花了5天时间来寻找残骸遗迹，又花了将近两年时间来寻找黑匣子。与此相似，南非航空公司的一架波音747客机于1987年11月坠毁，人们直到1989年1月才锁定了驾驶舱数据记录仪的位置。记录仪显示，飞机是因为机舱起火而坠毁，并不是因为恐怖袭击，因此，人们没有继续搜寻机上的另一个黑匣子，即飞行数据记录仪。
Another rule of thumb for pilots may shed light on why no distress signal was heard from the Malaysia Airlines flight. Pilots have a mantra for setting priorities in an emergency: Aviate, navigate, communicate. The first priority is to fly the airplane. Telling air traffic controllers on the ground what is going on comes third, since doing so is unlikely to instantly yield any help with the crisis in the cockpit, whatever it is.
驾驶员还有一条经验法则，也许可以帮助我们了解，为什么没有收到马航失联航班的求救信号。驾驶员在设定紧急情况下的任务缓急时有一条排序准则，即飞行、导航、通讯联络。首要的任务是让飞机继续飞行。向地面的空中交通指挥员通报飞机现状被排在第三位，因为通报现状不太可能对化解驾驶舱内的危机产生立竿见影的效果，不论这是一场什么样的危机。
Although officials have not ruled out terrorism in the Malaysia Airlines case, no evidence of foul play has come to light. No group has claimed responsibility for downing the jet either, though as Captain Reiner noted concerning the 747 that exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, “when Qaddafi’s guys blew up Pan Am 103, they weren’t talking about it.”
官员们尚未排除马航失联航班遭受恐怖袭击的可能性，尽管如此，目前当局还没有公布任何人为破坏的证据。没有团体声称对失联航班的失事负责，不过，退休机长赖纳提到了1988年的洛克比空难，当时，一架747客机在苏格兰洛克比上空爆炸，“炸毁泛美航空公司的103次班机时，卡扎菲(Qaddafi)的手下并没有公开谈论此事。”
The mystery will probably not be solved until the wreckage, and especially the black boxes, are found and recovered. The wreckage alone could yield important clues, including whether the plane broke up in flight, suffered an explosion or had a mechanical failure. In most crashes, definitive findings on these questions take months or even years to establish.
发现并找回飞机残骸尤其是黑匣子之前，我们多半无法解开其中的谜团。飞机残骸本身就可能提供重要的线索，包括飞机是否是在飞行中解体的，是否遭遇了爆炸，是否发生了严重的机械故障。在大多数坠机事件中，找出这些问题的最终答案都需要几个月的时间，甚至是几年。
A team of American experts from the National Transportation Safety Board, the Federal Aviation Administration and Boeing has been sent to the area and is waiting for something concrete to go on. The team members “stand ready to assist in any way they can,” said Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for the safety board in Washington.
来自美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board，简称NTSB)、联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)和波音公司的一队美国专家已奉命前往失联区域，正在等待具体的任务。NTSB女发言人凯莉·南泰利(Kelly Nantel)表示，队员们“随时准备提供力所能及的协助”。