WASHINGTON — A fast-moving legal fight over President Trump’s targeted travel ban reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, late Saturday. Here is a look at where things stand.
华盛顿——周六晚间，一场围绕特朗普总统有针对性的入境禁令而双方频繁过招的法律大战摆在了旧金山美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit)面前。以下是情况介绍。
What does the Trump administration want?
特朗普政府想要什么？
Lawyers for the federal government asked the appeals court to stay a temporary restraining order issued Friday by Judge James Robart of the Federal District Court in Seattle. Judge Robart was appointed by President George W. Bush.
联邦政府的律师请求该上诉法院中止西雅图联邦地区法院(Federal District Court in Seattle)的法官詹姆斯·罗巴特(James Robart)周五发布的临时禁令。罗巴特法官由乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统任命。
Acting on a request from two states, Washington and Minnesota, Judge Robart temporarily banned the administration from enforcing two parts of Mr. Trump’s order: its 90-day suspension of entry into the United States of people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, and its limits on accepting refugees, including “any action that prioritizes the refugee claims of certain religious minorities.”
应华盛顿州和明尼苏达州的请求，罗巴特法官暂时禁止联邦政府实施特朗普命令中的两项内容：连续90天暂停允许来自伊拉克、利比亚、索马里、苏丹、叙利亚和也门的人入境，并限制接收难民，包括“任何优先考虑某些宗教少数群体的难民申请的行动”。
Judge Robart’s order allowed people from the seven countries who had been authorized to travel, along with vetted refugees from all nations, to enter the country.
罗巴特的命令允许上述七国获得批准的公民，以及通过了审查的各国难民进入美国。
What does the administration argue?
联邦政府的理由是什么？
In its brief, the administration said that Judge Robart had “improperly second-guessed the president’s national security determinations.” The brief said the president had vast power over immigration under the Constitution and federal law.
在案情摘要中，联邦政府称罗巴特法官“对总统的国家安全决定进行了不正确的预测”。案情摘要称按照宪法和联邦法律的规定，总统在移民问题上拥有巨大的权力。
What did the appeals court do?
上诉法院采取了什么行动？
The court declined to issue an immediate administrative stay, but it said it would consider the federal government’s emergency motion for a stay after receiving more briefs. The court set a very fast briefing schedule, asking the states to respond by midnight Sunday Pacific time, with the federal government to file a second brief by 3 p.m. on Monday.
该法院拒绝发布一项紧急行政中止令，但表示会在收到更多案情介绍后考虑联邦政府请求中止禁令的紧急动议。法院制定了一个非常紧张的情况介绍时间表，要求相关州在太平洋时间周日午夜之前给出答复，联邦政府则要在周一下午3点之前提交第二份案情摘要。
How fast will the appeals court act?
上诉法院的行动会有多快？
There is every indication that the court will act promptly.
所有迹象都表明，该法院会立即行动。
Who are the appeals court judges?
上诉法院的法官是谁？
The appeals court’s order was issued by Judge William C. Canby Jr., who was appointed by President Jimmy Carter, and Judge Michelle T. Friedland, who was appointed by President Barack Obama. They are two of the three Ninth Circuit judges designated to hear motions in February. The third, Judge Richard R. Clifton, was appointed by President George W. Bush.
该上诉法院的命令是由吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)总统任命的法官小威廉·C·坎比(William C. Canby Jr.)和贝拉克·奥巴马总统(Barack Obama)任命的法官米歇尔·T·弗里德兰(Michelle T. Friedland)发布的。第九巡回上诉法院的三名法官被指派审理2月的动议，他们是其中的两位。另一位是乔治·W·布什总统任命的理查德·R·克利夫顿(Richard R. Clifton)法官。
Will the appeals court hear oral arguments?
上诉法院会听取口头辩论吗？
Motions for stays are typically decided based on paper filings.
中止动议通常是根据书面材料进行裁决的。
Will the case reach the Supreme Court?
此案会到最高法院吗？
Almost certainly. The losing side will very likely ask the justices to review the appeals court’s ruling on the emergency stay.
几乎肯定会。败诉的一方极有可能请求大法官对该上诉法院就紧急中止令做出的裁决进行复审。
The ultimate decision on whether the executive order is lawful will not come quickly. That means people seeking to travel or settle here may be whipsawed until the case is finally resolved.
这项行政命令是否合法的最终判决不会很快出来。这意味着想来美国旅游或定居的人可能会遭到夹击，直到此案尘埃落定。