WASHINGTON — Even days before he was scheduled to meet with President Xi Jinping of China, President Trump had yet to abandon his exaggerated election rhetoric on China and trade.
华盛顿——就在与中国主席习近平会晤的数天之前，特朗普总统仍未放弃在中国和贸易问题上的竞选说辞。
Mr. Trump “is still in the raucous campaign mode,” said James Zimmerman, former chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China. “Raising issues such as currency manipulation and the size of the trade deficit may play well to the underinformed base, but not to those that understand the issues.”
特朗普“仍处在呱噪的竞选模式下”，中国美国商会前主席吉莫曼(James Zimmerman)说。“他拿货币操纵和贸易逆差说事，对于消息不灵通的选民可能有些作用，但对那些清楚情况的人就不行了。”
Here’s an assessment of claims Mr. Trump has made about China and trade since his inauguration.
以下就是自从特朗普就职以来，他对中国和贸易的看法。
Mr. Trump claimed on Sunday a $500 billion trade deficit with China.
特朗普周日声称美国对华贸易有5000亿美元的逆差。
“We have to do better because our deficit with China, as you know — $504 billion. That’s a year.”
“我们得做得更好，因为就像你知道的那样，我们对华贸易赤字达到了5040亿美元。那还仅仅是一年的量。”
This is exaggerated. The United States imported about $463 billion in goods from China in 2016, but it also exported about $116 billion worth.
这夸大了事实。美国2016年从中国进口大约4630亿美元的东西，但也出口了约1160亿美元的东西。
That’s an overall goods deficit of about $347 billion in 2016, in addition to a services surplus of about $37 billion, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, for an overall deficit of $310 billion.
经济分析局的资料显示，2016年全年产品赤字约为3450亿美元，而服务盈余约370亿美元，因此整体赤字为3100亿美元。
For context, the difference in the actual goods deficit and what Mr. Trump claimed — $157 billion — is larger than the entire economy of Hungary.
比较一下，实际商品赤字和特朗普所说的数字相差1570亿美元，这比匈牙利整体经济规模还庞大。
Mr. Trump also characterized China as the world champion of currency devaluation.
特朗普还把中国说成是货币贬值的世界冠军。
“You know when you talk about, when you talk about currency manipulation, when you talk about devaluations, they are world champions.”
“你知道，当谈到操纵货币，谈到贬值，他们就是世界冠军。”
This is misleading. Mr. Trump’s claim would have been more accurate a few years ago. China did keep its currency, the renminbi, artificially cheap at one point, but now faces the opposite problem.
这有误导性。若是放在几年前，特朗普的说法要准确得多。当时中国确实在操纵货币，人民币一度被人为维持在较低价位，但现在问题反过来了。
As China’s economic growth slowed, so did the flow of capital into the country — and the value of its currency dropped. In recent years, China has taken to selling dollars to keep its currency from depreciating more.
随着中国经济增长放缓，资本流入该国速度放缓，人民币的价值在下滑。近年来，中国已经在卖掉美元，防止人民币进一步贬值。
Under current United States law, the Treasury Department will specifically monitor a country’s currency if it meets three criteria: a large trade surplus, a material current account surplus (meaning the country is a net lender) and “persistent one-sided intervention in the foreign exchange market.” As of October 2016, China met the first two criteria, but not the third.
根据美国现有法律，一个国家的货币若是符合三个标准，财政部就会对其进行专门监测。这三个标准是：大量贸易顺差、明显的国际收支经常项目顺差（意为该国是净贷款人）和“持续单向地干预外汇市场”。到2016年10月，中国符合前两条，但不符合第三条。
Mr. Trump has blamed China and other countries for job losses in the United States.
特朗普指责中国和其他国家导致美国人失业。
“The field has not been a level field. Jobs have been leaving our country, going to China and Mexico and lots of other places, and you’ll be seeing what’s happening over the next few weeks. It should be very interesting for you to watch.”
“这个领域还没有实现公平。工作岗位已经从我们国家流失，转移到了中国和墨西哥等很多地方，你会在接下来几个星期看到发生了什么事。你们会看到非常有趣的事情。”
This needs context. Like Mr. Trump’s criticism of currency manipulation, this talking point about China’s impact on jobs is outdated. While Mr. Trump does broaden his claim to “other countries,” he also ignores a huge driver in the shift in the labor market: automation in the United States.
这需要看上下文。就像特朗普批评中国操纵货币一样，中国影响到美国工作岗位的说法也已经过时。虽然特朗普还提到了“其他国家”，但他忽视了劳动力市场转型的巨大动力：美国的自动化进程。
Independent studies have found that Chinese imports have cost the United States jobs; one analysis pinned the number to at least two million from 1999 to 2011. But rising wages and costs mean that China is currently facing more competition from other Asian countries and may be losing jobs to them.
一些独立研究发现，中国进口的商品确实导致了美国工作岗位减少。一项分析称，从1999年至2011年，这个数字至少为200万。但是，工资和成本上涨也意味着中国目前正面临来自其他亚洲国家的更多竞争，中国的工作岗位可能也会流失到这些国家。
Productivity gains have also displaced jobs and according to other research are a much bigger factor than trade with China. A study from Ball State University found that out of about 5.6 million manufacturing jobs lost from 2000 to 2010, 13.4 percent of those losses were due to trade and 87.8 percent because of technological advances.
其他研究显示，生产力提高也是导致工作岗位减少的一个因素，而且是比美中贸易远远更重大的一个因素。来自鲍尔州立大学(Ball State University)的一项分析认为，从2000年到2010年制造业失去的大约560万个工作岗位中，13.4%要归结于贸易亏损，87.8%归结于技术进步。
Mr. Trump blamed China’s entry into the World Trade Organization for the U.S. manufacturing decline.
特朗普说，是中国加入世界贸易组织，导致了美国制造业的下滑。
“Since China joined, that’s another beauty, the World Trade Organization in 2001, the United States has lost many more than 60,000 factories.”
“这又是另一个好事了，自从中国2001年加入世界贸易组织之后，美国的工厂已经减少了6万多家。”
True, but … Mr. Trump has repeated this statistic at rallies before and after his election. While his figure is accurate, there’s debate around the implied causal link.
这倒是真的，但是……特朗普在选举之前和之后，都在集会上再三提到这个统计数字。虽然他的数字是准确的，但其隐含的因果关系存在着争议。
Census Bureau data does show that the number of manufacturing establishments decreased by more than 70,000 from 2001 to 2014. But economists disagree on how much of this is because of China’s entry, with some pointing again to automation as a driver.
美国人口普查局(Census Bureau)的数据显示，从2001年到2014年，制造业机构的数量确实减少了7万多个。但是经济学家不同意这是中国加入世贸组织造成的，有些人指出，自动化进程也在其中发挥了作用。
The manufacturing decline in the United States is also in line with changes in Western Europe and Japan, the Congressional Research Service pointed out in a January report. The report also notes that the United States “appears to have outperformed many other wealthy countries in the growth of manufacturing value added in recent years.”
美国国会研究服务局(United States Congressional Research Service)在今年1月份的报告中指出，美国制造业下滑和西欧、日本的变化是一致的。报告还指出，“从制造附加值来说”，美国“近年来的增长似乎超过很多富裕国家”。
Mr. Trump has characterized importing into the Chinese market as ‘impossible.’
特朗普说，把美国产品出口到中国市场是“不可能的”。
“So we take in things free, and yet, if you want to take a plant or you want to do something, you want to sell something into China and other countries, it’s very, very hard. In some cases, it’s impossible. They won’t even take your product.”
“所以我们敞开接受他们的东西，但是如果你想建一个厂，或者想要做什么事，你想把东西卖给中国和其他国家，这就非常非常困难了。在某些情况下，这是不可能的。他们甚至不会接受你的产品。”
This is exaggerated. Mr. Trump spoke of import taxes China levied on the United States in a March 2016 interview with The Times, but overstated the scope of these duties.
这夸大了事实。特朗普2016年3月在接受《纽约时报》采访时谈到中国对美国征收进口税，但夸大了征税规模。
The United States does charge an average tariff of 3.5 percent. That’s lower than China’s average tariff of 9.9 percent, but on par with rates in other developed countries like Australia, Japan, Canada and the European Union.
美国的平均关税是3.5%。这比中国的平均关税9.9%低，但与澳大利亚、日本、加拿大等其他发达国家以及欧盟的税率差不多。
Some 160 countries, including China, also charge a steep value-added tax on domestic and foreign products alike. But these costs are largely shouldered by consumers.
包括中国在内的约160个国家对本国和进口商品都征收高额的增值税。但这种成本在很大程度上由消费者承担的。
Both China and the United States have placed blanket bans on certain imports (for example, bald eagles in the United States), but none that target only each other, according to the W.T.O’s database on import restrictions, though China does limit imports on American-made movies and other media and genetically modified agricultural products.
中国和美国都对某些进口（例如美国的白头鹰）实施了全面禁令，但是从世贸组织的进口限制数据库来看，中国和美国并没有什么限制是专门针对对方的，尽管中国确实对美国电影、其他媒体和转基因农产品有一些限制。
“But over all, since China joined W.T.O. in 2001, more and more American goods and services are allowed into the country without significant restrictions,” Mr. Zimmerman said.
“从总体来看，自从中国2001年加入世贸组织，就有越来越多的美国商品和服务获许进入该国，没有什么明显的限制，”吉莫曼说。