On Sunday, more than 30 million voters across Myanmar can cast their ballots in the country’s first relatively free elections in 25 years. The nationwide vote is a milestone in the Southeast Asian nation’s transformation from isolated military dictatorship to a more open society, seeking to attract foreign investment and tourists.
本周日，缅甸各地3000多万名选民将在该国25年来第一次相对自由的选举中投票。作为一个正在从军事独裁统治的孤立国家转变成一个比较开放的社会，希望以此吸引外国投资者和游客的东南亚国家，这次全国性投票具有里程碑式的意义。
Moreover, it will be a crucial test of the popularity of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate and democracy icon who is believed to be the country’s most popular politician. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who was held under house arrest for 15 years during military rule, hopes a strong victory at the polls could finally give her party political power even though she is barred from becoming president.
此外，这也将是对昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)人气的一个重大考验。昂山素季是诺贝尔和平奖获得者，被认为是该国最受欢迎的政治家，也是民主的象征人物。在军政府统治期间，昂山素季被软禁了15年。她希望自己的政党在投票中强势胜出，以便掌握政治权力，即使她自己被禁止成为总统
Here is a brief guide to some of the ins and outs of the election.
下面简短地介绍一下这次选举的来龙去脉。
Why is this election important?
为什么这次选举很重要？
In the last national election, in May 1990, voters’ overwhelming preference for the National League for Democracy, the opposition party led by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, was followed by a brutal crackdown and two decades of harsh military rule. Now, her party is running against representatives of the former military junta.
上次全国大选发生在1990年5月，选民压倒性地投票给昂山素季领导的全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)，结果遭到反对党残酷的镇压，随之而来的是20年严厉的军事统治。现在，她的政党在和前军政府的代表展开角逐。
The military-aligned party, the Union Solidarity and Development Party led by President Thein Sein, has campaigned on its record of running the government the last five years and a promise to guarantee stability.
有军事背景的联邦巩固与发展党(Union Solidarity and Development Party)由总统登盛(Thein Sein)领导，竞选资本是过去五年的执政业绩，以及保证稳定的承诺。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s campaign has centered on strengthening the rule of law.
昂山素季的竞选方针主要侧重在加强法治上。
The new government will inherit immense problems: sectarian violence, fighting with ethnic militias, rampant cronyism and corruption, and inadequate infrastructure and financial institutions to attract foreign investment. Some parts of the country are controlled by ethnic militias, and several of Myanmar’s leading exports, including jade, opium and timber, have been tied to conflict, crime and corruption.
新政府将接手一些重大问题：宗派暴力、与少数民族武装组织的冲突、猖獗的任人唯亲和腐败现象，以及对吸引外国投资来说不足的基础设施和金融机构。这个国家的部分地区由少数民族民兵组织控制，翡翠、鸦片及木材等缅甸几大主要出口商品受到冲突、犯罪及腐败问题的困扰。
Why can’t Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi become president?
昂山素季为什么不能成为总统？
Myanmar’s military rulers, concerned that Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s popularity could threaten their hold on power, introduced a new Constitution in 2008 that effectively bars her from holding the highest offices in the country. Article 59, believed to have been written with her in mind, says that anyone married to a foreign citizen or whose children are foreigners cannot become president or vice president. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was married to the British historian Michael Aris, who died in 1999. Her two sons are British citizens.
缅甸的军事统治者担心，昂山素季的支持率会威胁到他们对权力的控制，因此在2008年推出了新宪法，禁止昂山素季获取该国的最高职位。宪法第59条据信是针对她的条款，其中规定，与外国公民结婚或子女为外国人的缅甸人不能成为总统或副总统。昂山素季的丈夫是英国历史学家迈克尔·阿里斯(Michael Aris)，于1999年去世。她的两个儿子是英国公民。
But Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has said that if her party wins, she will run the government.
但昂山素季曾表示，如果她所在的政党赢得选举，她将领导政府。
How does the election work?
如何进行选举？
Voters will choose three-quarters of the representatives to the country’s two houses of Parliament. The remainder will be appointed by the armed forces. The two houses of Parliament and the military then each will nominate one candidate for the presidency. The two houses will hold a joint vote to choose the president. The runners-up will serve as vice presidents. After the election, there will probably be weeks of negotiations among the leading parties and the military before the president is chosen.
选民们将选出议会两院四分之三的议员。剩下的由军队任命。议会两院及军队将分别提名一名总统候选人。议会两院将举行联合投票，选出总统。排名第二的候选人将成为副总统。选举结束后，主要政党和军队在选出总统之前可能会进行几周的谈判。
How much influence does the military have?
军队的影响力有多大？
The military appoints a quarter of all lawmakers, one of the three nominees for president, the powerful home minister, the defense minister and the minister of border affairs. U Tin Aye, the chairman of the election commission, which oversees the election process, is a former general and lawmaker of the ruling, military-aligned party. The military’s commander in chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, reportedly has called on soldiers and their families to vote for the “correct” candidates, presumably referring to those from the ruling party.
军队任命四分之一的议员、三名总统候选人中的一名、掌握重权的内政部长、国防部长和边境事务部长。选举委员会负责监督选举过程，该委员会主席丁埃(Tin Aye)曾是一名将军、代表与军队结盟的执政党的议员。据称，缅甸国防军总司令敏昂莱(Min Aung Hlaing)大将号召士兵及其家人为“正确”的候选人投票，他可能指的是来自执政党的候选人。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has said that if her party wins, it would begin the process of changing the Constitution, hoping to make her eligible to become president and strip the military of its political powers. The current Constitution gives the military a veto over proposed amendments.
昂山素季曾表示，如果她所在的政党赢得选举，缅甸将开启修宪的进程，希望通过此举让自己获得成为总统的资格，剥夺军队的政治权力。目前的宪法授予军队对修正案提案的否决权。
There have been signs of cracks within the military-backed ruling party. In August, the party ousted its chairman, Thura Shwe Mann, who had formed an alliance with Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.
由军队支持的执政党内部存在分裂迹象。今年8月，执政党免去了其主席吴瑞曼(Thura Shwe Mann)的职务，吴瑞曼与昂山素季结盟。
Will Myanmar’s ethnic minorities be able to vote?
缅甸的少数民族可以投票吗？
Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya, a mostly Muslim ethnic minority, have been excluded from voter lists this year amid a wider government-led effort to disenfranchise them. Ethnic militias controlling large swaths of territory near Myanmar’s eastern border with China and northern Thailand rejected a last-minute cease-fire agreement in October. Voters in some areas under their control will not be able to vote.
政府领导了剥夺罗辛亚人——大部分是穆斯林——公民权的广泛行动，数十万罗辛亚人今年被从选民名单当中剔除。控制缅甸东部与中国及泰国北部边境附近大片地区的少数民族民兵组织于10月份拒绝接受最后的停火协议。一些被他们控制的地区的选民无法投票。