A powerful explosion went off on West 23rd Street in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan around 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, injuring 29 people, shattering windows and prompting widespread street closures. The authorities later found a second suspicious device a few blocks away.
周六晚上8点30分左右，位于曼哈顿切尔西的西23街发生大爆炸，导致29人受伤。爆炸震碎了窗户，并造成大面积的街道封锁。当局后来在几个街区外发现了另一个可疑装置。
By Sunday morning, all of those injured had been released from the hospital, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said in a news conference. Officials said the explosion was intentional but the governor said that it did not appear to be linked to international terrorism.
纽约州州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)在一场新闻发布会上表示，截至周日上午，所有伤员均已出院。官员称爆炸是故意行为，但库默表示似乎与国际恐怖主义无关。
Here is the latest:
以下是最新消息：
Where was the explosion?
爆炸发生在哪里？
The police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said it happened in front of 131 West 23rd Street around 8:30 p.m. Witnesses said the explosion seemed to have come from a Dumpster on a sidewalk.
警察局长詹姆斯·P·奥尼尔(James P. O'Neill)称爆炸发生在西23街131号的前面，时间是晚上8点30分左右。目击者表示爆炸似乎来自人行道上的一个垃圾箱。
Officials said they believed the explosion had been caused by a homemade bomb.
官员认为爆炸是一枚自制炸弹造成的。
Where was the second device found?
第二个爆炸装置是在哪里发现的？
The authorities said a suspicious device was found on West 27th Street between the Avenue of Americas and Seventh Avenue almost three hours after the explosion. Commissioner O'Neill, speaking at Police Headquarters on Sunday, said that the device was found by two state troopers who were doing a sweep of the area.
当局称爆炸发生近三个小时后，在美洲大道和第七大道之间的西27街发现了一个可疑装置。奥尼尔周日在警察局总部发表讲话时表示，该装置是两名正在搜索该地区的州警发现的。
A photograph of the device that was shared on social media showed a silver piece of cookware with wires and a cellphone attached. The police confirmed the photo was authentic. But they said they were still investigating the components of the device.
社交媒体上流传的一张该装置的照片显示，那是一件银色的锅具，上面有一些线和一部手机。警方证实了照片的真实性，但表示他们仍在调查该装置的部件。
What happened to that device?
该装置被如何处理？
The Police Department bomb squad removed the device around 2:25 a.m. and transported it to the department’s firing range at Rodman’s Neck in the Bronx. The governor said on Sunday that some evidence would be sent to a lab in Quantico, Va. for analysis.
警察局防爆小组在凌晨2点25分左右拆除了该装置，并将其送至警察局位于布朗克斯区罗德曼颈的射击场。库默在周日表示，一些证据将被送至弗吉尼亚州匡蒂科的一家实验室进行分析。
What was the nature of the injuries?
伤者情况如何？
Many of the injuries were caused by shrapnel from the explosion. One person was seriously hurt, officials said. By Sunday morning, all 29 of those injured had been released from the hospital, according to Mr. Cuomo.
不少受伤者是被爆炸中的碎片所伤。官方称其中一人伤势严重。库默则表示截止周日上午，29名伤者已全部出院。
Was this an act of terrorism?
这是恐怖主义行为吗？
On Sunday, the governor said that there was no evidence of an international terrorism connection to the incident and said that no groups had claimed responsibility. Still, Mr. Cuomo cautioned that it was early in the investigation and said that whether it was an act of terrorism depended on how the word was defined: “A bomb exploding in New York is obviously an act of terrorism,” he said.
周日当天，库默称没有证据表明此事和国际恐怖主义有关联，并表示尚没有组织宣布对此事负责。但他警告称目前尚处于调查的初期，并表示此事是否是恐怖主义行为取决于如何定义这个词：“一枚炸弹在纽约爆炸当然属于恐怖主义行为。”
Are there any suspects?
目前有嫌疑人吗？
The police said on Sunday that they had yet to make an arrest. Later in the day, two senior law enforcement officials said that there was a “person of interest” in the bombing, though it was unclear if that person had been identified.
警方在周日表示尚未逮捕任何人。当天晚些时候，两名高级执法官员称有一名“利害关系人”，但其身份是否已得到确认目前仍不可知。
Is there a connection to an explosion Saturday in New Jersey?
这场爆炸与周六发生在新泽西的爆炸有联系吗？
Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City said that there was no specific evidence linking the Chelsea explosion to a blast that happened 11 hours before in Seaside Park, N.J., where an improvised device exploded in a garbage can near the course of a charity race to benefit the United States Marine Corps.
纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)表示，目前没有具体证据把切尔西爆炸案和新泽西州锡赛德帕克爆炸案联系起来——11个小时前，锡赛德帕克一个垃圾桶内的简易装置发生了爆炸，爆炸地点靠近一场慈善跑步比赛的路线，该活动为美国海军陆战队募款而举办。
But Mr. de Blasio added that “investigatory agencies continue to look to see if there’s any connection.”
但白思豪还表示，“调查机构仍在调查两者之间是否有任何联系。”
The device in New Jersey went off around 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, around the time the race was originally scheduled to have started. There were no injuries. Officials said that the race had been delayed for a separate reason and that there was no one on the course near the site of the explosion at the time.
新泽西州的装置于周六上午9点30分爆炸，慈善比赛原定在那前后开始。爆炸未导致人员伤亡。官员称，比赛已经因为别的原因被推迟了，爆炸地点附近的比赛路线当时空无一人。
Robert K. Boyce, the New York Police Department’s chief of detectives, said that the police also did not believe the blast in Chelsea to be related to a mysterious explosion in Central Park in July, in which a teenager from Virginia lost part of his leg.
纽约市警察局探长罗伯特·K·博伊斯(Robert K. Boyce)说，警方也不认为切尔西区爆炸案与7月份的中央公园神秘爆炸案有关，那起爆炸让一名来自弗吉尼亚州的少年失去了部分下肢。
Here’s what we don’t yet know:
这里是目前我们还不知道的：
• Who was responsible for the explosion.
• 爆炸是何人所为。
• A motive behind the explosion.
• 爆炸背后的动机。
• Why the site of the explosion was selected.
• 为什么选择该地点放置炸弹。