Overwhelmed by the news from Texas since Hurricane Harvey made landfall? Here is an overview of coverage by The New York Times that will be updated as events continue.
自从飓风哈维(Hurricane Harvey)登陆后，你便被来自德克萨斯州的新闻淹没？本文对《纽约时报》的报道进行了概括。我们将随着事件的发展保持更新。
What’s happening on the ground
目前现场是什么情况？
At least 10 people have been killed and many more injured. Houston, the fourth-largest city in the United States, has been inundated: Parts of Harris County have received more than 30 inches of rain, according to the National Weather Service, and that will only increase. The rain is expected to continue through Wednesday.
至少10人死亡，受伤的人更多。全美第四大城市休斯顿被淹：据美国国家气象局(National Weather Service)称，哈里斯县部分地区降雨超过30英寸（约合76厘米），且降雨量只会继续增加。降雨预计会持续到周三。
Unlike many other cities in the hurricane’s path, Houston did not order evacuations before the storm, and countless residents were trapped in flooding homes. People fled to higher floors, and then to roofs; the Coast Guard rescued dozens. Chief Art Acevedo of the Houston Police Department warned residents on Sunday not to take shelter in their attics “unless you have an ax or means to break through onto your roof.”
不同于哈维沿途经过的其他很多城市，休斯顿在暴风雨来临前没有下令疏散民众，所以无数民众被困在洪水淹没的家中。人们先是逃往较高的楼层，然后爬上屋顶。海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)解救了数十人。休斯顿警察局局长阿特·阿塞韦多(Art Acevedo)周日告诫民众不要在阁楼避险，“除非有斧头或其他办法，可以让你成功到达屋顶”。
Emergency dispatchers were overwhelmed, and some residents began pleading for help on social media. Many people shared an image of nursing home residents sitting in waist-high waters before they were rescued. Clifford Krauss, a Times reporter who lives in Houston, filed a dispatch from his own flooded home. Homeless Houstonians endured a night of terror as Harvey pounded the city from Saturday into Sunday. All across the state, dramatic rescues unfolded. In parts of Texas where the worst had passed, residents tried to assess the damage.
急救电话调度员应接不暇，一些民众开始在社交媒体上求助。很多人分享了一张养老院的老人坐在齐腰深的水里等待救援的照片。生活在休斯顿的时报记者克利福德·克劳斯(Clifford Krauss)从被洪水淹没的家中发出了一篇报道。从周六到周日，哈维一直拍打着这座城市，无家可归的休斯顿人在恐惧中熬过了一夜。大面积的救援工作在全州展开。在最恶劣的情况已经过去了的德克萨斯部分地区，居民试图评估损失情况。
Houston’s health care infrastructure struggled to treat victims. The brutal storm is also putting the brakes on the area’s recent economic upswing.
休斯顿的医疗护理基础设施无力救治受害者。骤风暴雨也中断了该地区最近出现的经济上扬。
What made Harvey so powerful?
是什么让哈维的威力如此强劲？
What set Harvey apart was its rain. The downpour has been torrential and unceasing. Once the storm made landfall, it essentially stalled. Roads in Houston and elsewhere were turned into raging rivers. By the time the storm ends, some areas may see more than 50 inches of rain, forecasters said.
让哈维与众不同的是降雨。倾盆大雨连续不停。登陆之后，它基本上就逗留在这里。休斯顿和其他地方的道路都变成了汹涌的河流。预报员称，到暴风雨结束时，一些地区的降雨量可能多达50英寸。
Scientists say the hurricane was fueled by a deadly combination of factors, including warm water in the Gulf of Mexico and a lack of wind in the upper atmosphere, which might otherwise have guided the storm away from land.
科学家称，一些致命的因素结合起来，增加了哈维的威力，包括墨西哥湾的暖流和高层大气无风。否则，高层大气本可引导暴风雨离开地面。
“This event is unprecedented & all impacts are unknown & beyond anything experienced,” the National Weather Service tweeted Sunday morning.
“这次的情况史无前例，所有影响不明，超出了我们任何一次的经历，”国家气象局周日上午发推文说。
How the storm developed
暴风雨是如何发展的？
Tropical Storm Harvey strengthened into a hurricane over the Gulf of Mexico last week and made landfall northeast of Corpus Christi, Tex., around 9:45 p.m. on Friday. It was a Category 4 hurricane with winds of 130 miles per hour. It then moved offshore before making landfall again on the shore of Copano Bay, this time as a Category 3 hurricane.
上周，热带风暴哈维在墨西哥湾上空演变成飓风，并于周五晚上9点45分左右在德克萨斯州科珀斯克里斯蒂的东北部登陆，是一场风速为每小时130英里（约合209公里）的四级飓风。后来，哈维向海上转移，然后在科帕诺湾再次登陆，这一次成了三级飓风。
The affected area includes some of Texas’ most populous cities, stretching along the state’s Gulf Coast from Corpus Christi to Houston, and inland to Austin and San Antonio. Parts of Louisiana are also expecting heavy rain.
受灾地区包括德克萨斯州部分人口最稠密的城市，从墨西哥湾沿岸的科珀斯克里斯蒂到休斯顿，再到内陆的奥斯汀和圣安东尼奥。路易斯安那州部分地区预计也会出现大雨。
Who is responding and how?
谁采取了什么应对措施？
President Trump responded to the storm with a series of tweets, noting the severity of the disaster and praising emergency workers. He signed a federal disaster proclamation and made plans to visit Texas on Tuesday.
特朗普总统用一系列推文对暴风雨做出回应，提到了这场灾难的严重程度并对急救人员表示称赞。他签署了一份联邦灾难公告，并计划于周二视察德克萨斯。
In a news conference with the president of Finland on Monday afternoon, Mr. Trump said he had just spoken with Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas. He said he expected to receive formal requests for federal aid “very soon,” and predicted that Congress would approve them “very, very quickly.”
在周一下午同芬兰总统举行的新闻发布会上，特朗普说他刚和德克萨斯州州长格雷格·阿伯特(Greg Abbott)通过话。他说他预计“很快”会收到获得联邦政府援助的正式请求，并预言国会会“非常非常迅速地”批准请求。
Houston opened its convention center as a mass shelter, and Dallas planned to do the same. Tens of thousands of people spent the weekend in shelters. In San Antonio, some of them talked to a Times reporter about their fears for what awaited them back home.
休斯顿开放会议中心收留民众，达拉斯也打算这么做。数万人在收容所度过了周末。在圣安东尼奥，一些人向时报记者讲述了对家中情况的担忧。