The coordinated terrorist assault in Paris on Friday night, which President François Hollande of France said was “planned in Syria, organized in Belgium, perpetrated on our soil with French complicity,” was conducted by three teams of Islamic State attackers. Seven of the attackers died, and authorities were looking for an eighth suspect on Monday as well as the suspected chief planner behind the attack.
上周五晚间巴黎发生的协同恐怖袭击是由三组伊斯兰国(Islamic State)袭击者实施的。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)称其“在叙利亚谋划，在比利时组织，然后里应外合，在法国实施。”七名袭击者已经死亡。周一，当局在寻找第八名嫌疑人，以及袭击行动的主谋。
Officials are looking for Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a 27-year-old Belgian man who has fought for the Islamic State in Syria and had been wanted in Belgium for a terrorist plot that was foiled in January. He has been prominently featured in Islamic State propaganda.
官方正在寻找曾在叙利亚为伊斯兰国作战的27岁比利时男子阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴阿奥德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)。阿巴阿奥德因与今年1月被挫败的一起恐怖预谋有关而受到比利时的通缉。他醒目地出现在伊斯兰国的宣传材料中。
According to a French official, Mr. Abaaoud had told a French citizen who had come back from Syria about plans to attack “a concert hall.” He had been in contact with Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, one of the Paris attackers who had entered Turkey in 2013 but had no record of leaving the country, officials said. He is also from the same Brussels neighborhood, Molenbeek, as two brothers tied to the attacks and was tried with one of them for a petty offense in 2010.
据一名法国官员透露，阿巴阿奥德曾告诉一名从叙利亚回国的法国公民有关袭击“音乐厅”的计划。官方称，他与另一名参与巴黎袭击的人员——伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·穆斯塔法伊(Ismaël Omar Mostefaï)——有过接触，后者于2013年进入土耳其但没有离境记录。阿巴阿奥德与参与恐怖袭击的两兄弟都来自布鲁塞尔莫伦贝克居民区，他与其中一人在2010年因轻度罪行受审。
Two Brothers Are Linked to the Attacks
与袭击事件有关的两兄弟
The French authorities are investigating the role of two brothers who lived in the Molenbeek neighborhood of Brussels. Ibrahim Abdeslam died in the Paris attacks, and Salah Abdeslam is being sought. A third brother, Mohamed, was detained on Saturday but released on Monday and is not believed to have been involved.
法国当局正在调查住在布鲁塞尔莫伦贝克居民区的两兄弟扮演的角色。易卜拉欣·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Ibrahim Abdeslam)在巴黎袭击行动中死亡，萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)正遭到警方追捕。第三个兄弟穆罕默德(Mohamed)于周六被拘留，周一获释。警方认为他没有参与其中。
Salah Abdeslam, 26
萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，26岁
The French police asked the public to help track him down on Sunday, publishing his name and photograph and saying that he had been “potentially involved” in the attacks.
周日，法国警方请求民众帮忙追捕此人，公布了他的姓名和照片，称他“可能参与了”袭击行动。
Ibrahim Abdeslam, 31
易卜拉欣·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，31岁
Ibrahim Abdeslam died detonating a suicide vest at a cafe during Friday’s attacks. He had a history of criminal activity and once stood trial for a petty crime with Abdelhamid Abaaoud, thought to be the chief planner of the attacks, according to sources who received confirmation from the Belgian authorities. More than five years ago, Mr. Abdeslam and another brother, who has not been questioned in relation to the attacks, were involved in a document falsification case.
易卜拉欣·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆周五晚间在一家咖啡馆引爆自杀式炸弹背心身亡。据获得比利时当局提供的确认信息的消息人士透露，他有过进行各种犯罪活动的历史，曾因为轻度罪行与阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴阿奥德一同受审，后者被认为是此次袭击行动的主谋。五年多以前，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆和另一名兄弟卷入了一宗文件造假案，这名兄弟没有因为本轮攻击事件受到审问。
Three Bombers Attacked the Stadium
攻击体育场的三名炸弹袭击者
Three attackers detonated suicide vests outside of the Stade de France, where a soccer match between France and Germany was being played.
三名袭击者在法兰西体育场(Stade de France)外引爆了自杀式炸弹背心，当时法国队和德国队正在体育场内举行足球比赛。
Gate D Bomber
体育场D口的炸弹袭击者
After apparently attempting to enter the stadium and being stopped by security, the first attacker detonated his explosive at 9:20 p.m. on Rue Rimet, near Gate D of the stadium. One other person was killed.
在试图进入体育场遭到安保人员阻止后，第一名袭击者于晚上9点20分在里梅街体育场D口附近引爆炸弹。另一人被炸死。
A passport for a 25-year-old individual named Ahmad al-Mohammad from Idlib, Syria, was found near the attacker’s body. The passport had been used by a migrant who passed through the Greek island of Leros on Oct. 3 and Presevo, Serbia, on Oct. 7. It is not clear if the passport was authentic.
当局在这名袭击者尸体附近发现了一本护照，显示一名来自叙利亚伊德利卜省的男子名为艾哈迈德·穆罕默德(Ahmad al-Mohammad)，年纪为25岁。一名移民利用该护照于10月3日经过希腊莱罗斯岛，在10月7日经过塞尔维亚普雷舍沃镇。目前尚不清楚这份护照真实与否。
Gate H Bomber
体育场H口的炸弹袭击者
The unidentified second attacker at the stadium detonated his explosive at 9:30 p.m. on Rue Rimet, near Gate H of the stadium. No one else was reported killed.
第二名袭击者于晚上9点30分在体育场H口附近的里梅街引爆炸弹，其身份尚未确认。没有其他人死亡的报告。
Bilal Hadfi, 20
比拉尔·哈德非(Bilal Hadfi)，20岁
The third attacker, identified as Bilal Hadfi, a 20-year-old French citizen living in Belgium, detonated his explosive at 9:53 p.m. on Rue de la Cokerie, just outside of a McDonald’s restaurant about 300 meters from the stadium. No one else was reported killed.
第三名袭击者是在比利时居住的法国公民比拉尔·哈德非(Bilal Hadfi)，20岁。他于晚上9点53分在考克里街麦当劳餐厅门外引爆炸弹，距离体育场大约300米。没有其他人死亡的报告。
Mr. Hadfi is thought to have gone to Syria early this year. In June, he posted a call on Facebook to attack the West, saying, “Those dogs are attacking our civilians everywhere. Strike them in their community of pigs so they can’t feel safe again in their own dreams.”
哈德非被认为在今年早些曾前往叙利亚。六月，他在Facebook上发表言论，号召攻击西方国家，“这些狗在各地攻击我们的平民。在他们的猪窝里袭击他们，让他们在自己的梦中也无法再感到安全。”
Three Men Attacked the Concert Hall
袭击音乐厅的三人
Three men with assault rifles attacked people during a concert at the Bataclan music hall and rounded up survivors as hostages. Police entered the hall at 12:30 a.m. One attacker’s suicide vest detonated when he was shot by police, while the other two attackers detonated their vests on their own. A total of 89 people were killed at the hall.
三名携带冲锋枪的人员在巴塔克兰(Bataclan)音乐厅举行音乐会期间开展攻击，将幸存者赶到一起当做人质。警方在凌晨12点30分进入音乐厅。一名袭击者遭到警方枪击时，其自杀式炸弹背心也被引爆，另外两名袭击者自发引爆炸弹背心。音乐厅共有89人遇难。
Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, 29
伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·穆斯塔法伊，29岁
One of the concert hall attackers has been identified as Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, a 29-year-old French citizen who was known by authorities as someone who had radical Islamist beliefs. Six of his relatives were detained by authorities for questioning.
其中一名袭击者确认是伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·穆斯塔法伊。当局知道这名29岁的法国公民推崇激进的伊斯兰主义信仰。警方扣留了他的六名亲属进行审问。
According to an official, he was in contact with Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the chief planner behind the attacks. Mr. Mostefaï reportedly entered Turkey in 2013 but “there is no record of him leaving the country.”
据一名官员透露，他与袭击行动主谋阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴阿奥德有过接触。据称，穆斯塔法伊于2013年进入土耳其，但“没有他的离境记录”。
Samy Amimour, 28
萨米·阿米穆尔(Samy Amimour)，28岁
Samy Amimour was born in Paris and lived in a suburb, according to the French prosecutor's office. He had been previously charged with terrorist conspiracy, and in December 2014, the French newspaper Le Monde published an article about how his father had traveled to Syria to try to bring him back (he was not named at the time).
据法国检察机构透露，萨米·阿米穆尔在巴黎出生，住在郊区。他之前曾被控参与恐怖主义图谋。法国《世界报》(Le Monde)在2014年12月发表的一篇报道讲述了他父亲前往叙利亚，试图将其带回法国的故事（当时没有公布他的名字）。
Third Attacker
第三名袭击者
Unidentified.
尚未确认
What We Know
我们了解的情况
The attackers arrived at the Bataclan in a gray Volkswagen Polo and abandoned the car nearby.
袭击者开着一辆灰色大众Polo汽车到达巴塔克兰音乐厅，然后在附近将车遗弃。
Another Team Attacked Restaurants
袭击餐厅的另一组人员
Gunmen using Kalashnikov-type assault rifles killed 39 people in three separate shootings outside restaurants in central Paris. A suicide bomber detonated his explosive inside another restaurant in the area.
持械者在巴黎中心区域的餐厅外发起了三轮枪击事件，利用卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪杀害了39人。一名自杀式爆炸袭击者在该区域的另一家餐厅内引爆了炸弹。
Shooters
枪手
An unknown number of shooters in a black Seat Leon attacked three locations between 9:25 p.m. and 9:36 p.m.
数目不详的枪手乘坐黑色西雅特Leon车，在晚上9点25分到36分之间袭击了三个场所。
Ibrahim Abdeslam, 31
易卜拉欣·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，31岁
At 9:40 p.m., a suicide bomber identified as Ibrahim Abdeslam, a 31-year-old French citizen living in Belgium, detonated a vest identical to the ones used near the stadium inside a restaurant a mile from the where the last round of restaurant shootings occurred. No one else was reported killed in the explosion. It is unclear if the bomber had been in the car with the shooters.
晚上9点40分，自杀式爆炸袭击者易卜拉欣·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆在距离最近一轮餐厅枪击案发生地一英里的餐厅内引爆炸弹背心。该装置与体育场附近的袭击者使用的装置相同。这名31岁的法国公民住在比利时。没有其他人死亡的报告。目前尚不清楚，他是否与枪手一起乘坐汽车。
Mr. Abdeslam had at one point stood trial for petty crime with Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the chief planner of the attacks, according to sources who received confirmation from Belgian authorities.
据获得比利时当局提供的确认信息的消息人士透露，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆曾因轻度罪行与袭击行动主谋阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴阿奥德一同受审。
What We Know
我们了解的情况
A black Seat Leon that may have been the shooters’ getaway car was found Sunday morning in Montreuil, an eastern Paris suburb. The car, which contained three Kalashnikov rifles, was also rented in Belgium last week. French authorities are searching for an eighth suspect.
周日上午，当局在巴黎东部郊区蒙特勒伊发现了一辆黑色西雅特Leon车，可能是枪手们逃离时驾驶的汽车。这辆车载有三支卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪，也是上周在比利时租赁的。法国当局正在搜寻第八名嫌疑人。