TAMUNING, Guam — After North Korea threatened to lob missiles toward Guam, the people of this American territory in the Western Pacific stayed calm. One thing that certainly helped the mood: Its tourists aren’t the kind to shy away.
关岛塔穆宁——在朝鲜威胁向关岛发射导弹之后，这片位于西太平洋的美国领土上的人民保持着冷静。有一件事情肯定能帮助他们保持好心情：来这里的游客是不容易被吓跑的。
Tourism is big business in Guam, an island of 162,000 residents that welcomed 1.5 million visitors last year. Japanese are the single biggest group, and South Koreans aren’t far behind — and to them, bluster from North Korea may seem like old news.
关岛是一个拥有16.2万名居民的岛屿，旅游业是这里的重要产业，去年它迎来了150万名游客。日本人是其中最大的群体，韩国人紧随其后，对他们来说，朝鲜的恫吓似乎不是什么新鲜事。
President Donald Trump told Gov. Eddie Calvo of Guam that the threat had made the island “extremely famous all over the world” and that tourism was “going to go up, like, tenfold.” While there’s no evidence yet of any sort of ballistic missile boon, there’s no sign Kim Jong Un’s saber-rattling had any significant dampening effect on visits, either.
唐纳德·特朗普总统告诉关岛的埃尔迪·卡尔沃(Eddie Calvo)州长，威胁令这个岛“在世界上出了大名”，旅游业“会增长个十倍的样子吧”。虽然迄今没有证据显示这里的旅游业出现了爆炸式增长，但也没有任何迹象表明，金正恩的厉兵秣马对旅游有明显的抑制作用。
Flights to Guam from South Korea and Japan take about half the time it would take to get to Hawaii, another popular destination for tourists from East Asia.
夏威夷也是东亚游客的热门旅游地点，从韩国和日本乘飞机到关岛所需要的时间只有飞往夏威夷的一半。
Visitors have continued to pack the hotels, beaches and shopping malls of Guam in recent days, showing little concern about recent threats.
最近几天，游客们仍在涌入关岛的酒店、海滩和商场，对近期的威胁并不怎么关注。
Lee Hyun-soo from Seoul, South Korea’s capital, was visiting while on leave from his compulsory military service. The island felt calm despite recent events, he said as he stood outside the UnderWater World aquarium.
来自韩国首都首尔的李铉秀（Lee Hyun-soo，音）正在服义务兵役期间，他利用休假时间来这里旅游。在水下世界水族馆外面，他说，尽管有最近的事情，岛上的感觉仍然很平静。
“It’s so much safer than South Korea, maybe five times safer,” said Lee, 21.
“这里比韩国安全得多，也许安全五倍吧，”21岁的李铉秀说。
At the Eggs ‘n Things restaurant, the line for a table wraps around the building most mornings. At Tumon Beach, home to the island’s main tourist hotels, crowds flow onto the sand to take pictures of the sun setting over the Pacific. And at a mall filled with luxury stores, shoppers stop to take photos as dancers in grass skirts perform in front of a Burberry outlet.
大多数早上，Eggs'n Things餐厅之外都挤满了排队等位的人。在岛上几家主要旅游酒店的所在地图蒙海滩，人群涌上沙滩，拍摄太平洋日出的美景。在一家奢侈品专卖店云集的购物中心，购物者们纷纷在博柏利(Burberry)店外驻足，为草裙舞者拍下照片。
“Everyone here is very relaxed,” said Vivian Chan, 28, from Taipei, Taiwan, as she finished a bowl of cold udon noodles from a Japanese food stand.
“这里所有人都很放松，”28岁的薇薇安·陈(Vivian Chan)说，来自台北的她刚刚在日本料理摊位上吃完一碗乌冬冷面。
She had feared that North Korea might launch missiles on Aug. 15, a national holiday. “North Korea’s Liberation Day passed without a problem, so we aren’t worried,” she said.
她曾担心朝鲜可能会在它的国定假日8月15日发射导弹。“朝鲜解放日都没有出问题，所以我们也不担心了，”她说。
The Dusit Thani Guam Resort had “a handful” of cancellations, but the impact was minimal, said Marissa Borja, public relations and marketing manager for the Thai-owned hotel.
由泰国人经营的关岛都喜天丽度假村(Dusit Thani Guam Resort)的公关和市场经理玛丽萨·博尔哈(Marissa Borja)说，只有“少数人”取消了酒店预订，但影响非常小。
“We still see a strong surge of Korean guests,” she said. “Their overall sentiment was, like everyone else, they were saying, ‘Yeah, we’re kind of used to this sort of thing.’ To have them tell us that is quite reassuring.”
“我们仍然看到韩国游客出现激增，”她说。“他们的总体情绪跟其他人一样，他们说，“是啊，这种事我们都习惯了。’他们这么说我们就放心了。”
Last year a record 144,758 people came to Guam in August, the peak month for travel here, said Josh Tyquiengco, a spokesman for the Guam Visitors Bureau. As of Aug. 15, visitors are up 3 percent over last year, he said.
关岛观光局(Guam Visitors Bureau)发言人乔希·泰奎安科(Josh Tyquiengco)说，去年的8月旺季，来关岛的游客达到了创纪录的144758人次。他说，截至8月15日，过去一年游客增加了3%。
“While the short-term effect of the North Korea threat appears to not have affected our industry, we need to continue to monitor what that means in the long term,” he said.
“虽然朝鲜的威胁在短期内似乎并没有影响到我们的生意，但我们仍然需要持续留意它的长远影响，”他说。
Guam residents are U.S. citizens by birth but cannot vote in presidential elections, and the island’s delegate to Congress cannot vote.
关岛居民出生时自动成为美国公民，但不能在总统选举中投票，该岛的国会代表也不能投票。
In many ways, life here looks much like rural and suburban America, with ubiquitous fast food outlets, pickup trucks and pee wee football games.
在许多方面，这里的生活看起来很像美国农村和郊区：无处不在的快餐店、皮卡车和少儿橄榄球赛。
In Tamuning, tourist hotels line the placid Tumon Bay. Visitors paddle in the warm, shallow water and lie on the sand near concrete pillbox fortifications erected by the Japanese. Outside a mall with Givenchy, Gucci and Louis Vuitton outlets, well-fed island dogs sleep on the sidewalk.
在塔穆宁，平静的图蒙湾海滨沿岸坐落着一排旅游酒店。游客在温暖的浅水中划船或是躺在沙滩上，不远处有日本人修筑的混凝土防御工事。购物商场里有纪梵希(Givenchy)、古驰(Gucci)和路易威登(Louis Vuitton)专卖店，商场之外，岛上的狗吃饱喝足，睡在人行道上。
Reminders of Asia are everywhere, too. Many workers in restaurants and retail shops can handle conversations in several Asian languages. Store countertops display Korean, Japanese and Chinese language guides to U.S. coins and bills. Strip malls have businesses like Convenience Store Osaka, Gangnam Korean Restaurant and many gun ranges for visitors from countries where firearms are tightly restricted.
亚洲的痕迹也无处不在。餐厅和零售店里的许多工作人员可以用好几种亚洲语言进行对话。商店柜台前有中日韩文的美国硬币与钞票介绍。购物街上有大阪便利店和江南韩国料理，此外还有许多射击场，是为那些来自严格限枪国家的游客预备的。
“The Asian tourists like it here because they can get a little bit of America,” said Josh Melliza, manager of the Kicks/HI Guam shoe and clothing shop. “They can get huge hamburgers, not little tiny ones.”
“亚洲游客喜欢这里，因为他们可以找到一点美国的感觉，”Kicks/HI关岛鞋履与服装店的经理乔希·梅里扎(Josh Melliza)说：“他们可以吃到巨大的汉堡包，而不是那些小不点儿。”
Melliza said he’d seen no noticeable decline in business recently.
梅里扎说，他最近没有感觉到业务出现明显下滑。
“The South Koreans all say they feel safe here,” he said. “And for us, it’s nothing new. We’re used to it. And we do feel safe with the military presence. It’s 2017, there should be technology to shoot down a missile.”
“韩国人都说他们在这里感到安全，”他说。“而对我们来说，这不是什么新鲜事。我们习惯了。因为有军事力量驻扎，我们确实感到安全。现在都是2017年了，应该会有什么技术可以击落导弹。”
As the westernmost U.S. territory, Guam is a key to the U.S. military presence in the Pacific. Armed forces here could be called on in conflicts over the Korean Peninsula or other regional hot spots. The island is home to a naval station, an air base and about 7,000 military personnel.
关岛是美国最靠西部的领土，也是美军在太平洋的关键据点。这里的武装力量可能会被派往朝鲜半岛等区域热点地带解决冲突。岛上有一个海军驻地和一个空军基地，大约驻扎着7000名军事人员。
Increases in military spending for Guam, including plans to shift Marines here from Okinawa, have lifted growth, and it is still the most important sector of the island’s economy. On Thursday, the Department of Defense awarded a $164 million contract for utilities and site improvements for the future Marine base.
关岛的军费开支有所增加，其中包括将海军陆战队从冲绳海域转移到这里的计划，这为关岛带来了经济增长，军费仍然是该岛经济中最重要的部分。周四，国防部签署了一项1.64亿美元的合同，用于关岛未来海军基地的设施和场地改造。
With tourism as the other pillar of the economy, the balancing act can be awkward.
旅游业是该岛经济的另一支柱，要在二者之间取得平衡显得颇为尴尬。
“Military spending and tourism is the basis for our economy and the forces that drive those are not always compatible,” said Robert Underwood, the president of the University of Guam and former delegate for the island to the U.S. House of Representatives.
“军费开支和旅游是我们经济的基础，二者背后的驱动力并不总是兼容的，”关岛大学校长、前国会代表罗伯特·安德伍德(Robert Underwood)说。
“The island, half of it is rooting for instability so you get more military spending, the other half is rooting for more stability so you get more tourism,” he added. “It’s a duality, our existence.”
“这个岛一边要靠局势动荡获得更多的军事投入，一边又希望局势稳定从而获得更多旅游业收入，”他补充说。“我们的存在就是有这样的二元性。”