SIEM REAP, Cambodia — The giant mural in the foyer depicting a smiling stone face offers a mere taste of the grandiosity within the new Angkor Panorama Museum here. Inside, a 360-degree painted vista covers an area the size of nearly four basketball courts. Over 45,000 figures populate this cyclorama, a depiction of 12th-century Angkorian history.
柬埔寨暹粒——门厅里的巨幅壁画描绘的是一张笑意盈盈的石雕脸，让人得以一窥新建成的吴哥全景博物馆(Angkor Panorama Museum)内部的宏伟。博物馆里，360度绘制的风景图覆盖的区域几乎相当于四个篮球场大小。在这张巨大的环形画幕上，有4.5万多个人物，描绘的是12世纪的吴哥历史。
The museum, which opened in December, is a sweeping homage to what historians call one of the greatest cities in the world between the ninth and 15th centuries and the capital of the Khmer empire. But almost everything that went into this building — the money, the concept, the design and the artists — came not from Cambodia but from North Korea, namely, Mansudae, the largest art studio in that country.
这座博物馆于去年12月对外开放，是对历史学家口中9到15世纪间世界上最伟大的城市之一的全面致敬。这里也是高棉帝国的都城。不过，让这家博物馆成为现实的一切——资金、概念、设计和艺术家——几乎都来自朝鲜，而不是柬埔寨，具体来说，是朝鲜最大的艺术工作室万寿台(Mansudae)。
At a time when much of the world’s focus is on North Korea’s mercurial leadership and nuclear capabilities, this studio’s work is quietly making its way beyond the borders of that hermit kingdom. In recent years, monuments and sculptures made by Mansudae artists, modern-day masters of Socialist Realism, have popped up in Africa, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and even Germany.
在全世界的大量注意力放在朝鲜反复无常的领导人和核能力上时，这家工作室的作品正在悄无声息地走出这个隐秘王国的大门。万寿台的艺术家是当代的社会现实主义大师。近年来，他们创作的纪念碑和雕塑作品出现在了非洲、中东、东南亚乃至德国。
The Angkor Panorama Museum is the studio’s most ambitious foreign project. It took 63 artists, flown in from North Korea, four months to paint the cyclorama.
吴哥全景博物馆是万寿台最耗时费力的国外项目。从朝鲜坐飞机前来的63名艺术家，费时四个月才画好这个环形画幕。
“Mansudae has great talent and a good reputation in artwork, painting and construction,” said Yit Chandaroat, acting director of museums for Apsara, the government agency responsible for managing the Angkor complex, explaining why Cambodia chose its partner.
“在插图、绘画和建筑方面，万寿台有着非凡的才华和良好的口碑，”负责管理吴哥建筑群的政府机构阿帕莎拉(Apsara)的博物馆事务代理负责人伊特·准达罗(Yit Chandaroat)这样解释柬埔寨为何选择万寿台作为合作伙伴。
Mansudae Art Studio in Pyongyang, founded in 1959, is one of the world’s biggest art factories. It employs about 4,000 people, including 800 to 900 of North Korea’s most talented artists, according to Pier Luigi Cecioni, its representative in the United States and Europe.
设在平壤的万寿台创作社(Mansudae Art Studio)成立于1959年，是世界上最大的艺术工作室之一。据其在美国和欧洲的代表皮耶尔·路易吉·切乔尼(Pier Luigi Cecioni)称，万寿台有大约4000名雇员，其中包括朝鲜最有才华的800到900名艺术家。
The studio produces a variety of works, including most of the propaganda art and sculptures that dot North Korea. Its artists are said to be the only ones permitted to portray that country’s ruling family, the Kims. In 1972, it built a 66-foot-high statue of Kim Il-sung, North Korea’s founding leader and the grandfather of the current leader, on a hill in Pyongyang, the capital. A second, similarly sized likeness of Kim Jong-il, Kim Il-sung’s son and successor, was added beside the original in 2012 after Kim Jong-il’s death.
那里出品各种作品，包括散布在朝鲜各地的大部分的宣传性艺术品和雕塑。据称，只有万寿台的艺术家获准在艺术作品中表现统治该国的金氏家族。1972年，万寿台在该国首都平壤的一座小山丘上建起了一尊66英尺（约合20米）高的金日成(Kim Il-sung)塑像。金日成是朝鲜的开国领袖，也是现任领导人的祖父。2012年，在金日成的儿子兼继任者金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世后，金日成塑像的旁边又树起了一尊大小类似的金正日塑像。
Starting in the 1990s, Mansudae also began taking on outside projects. Governments in Southeast Asia and Africa have commissioned its artists for large-scale projects at low costs, among them the African Renaissance Monument in Dakar, Senegal, and the Fairy Tale Fountain in Frankfurt. The studio also maintains a gallery in the 798 Art District in Beijing, opposite the Pace Gallery and the Faurschou Foundation.
从90年代开始，万寿台也开始承接国外项目。东南亚和非洲一些国家的政府以较低的成本，将大型项目委托给万寿台的艺术家。这些项目包括塞内加尔达喀尔的非洲复兴纪念碑(African Renaissance Monument)和法兰克福的童话喷泉(Fairy Tale Fountain)。万寿台还在北京的798艺术区设立了一家美术馆，就在佩斯画廊(Pace Gallery)和林冠艺术基金会(Faurschou Foundation)的对面。
Mansudae’s overseas division first approached the Council for the Development of Cambodia, the government’s investment board, with a proposal to build a museum in Siem Reap several years ago, Mr. Yit said.
伊特表示，几年前，万寿台的海外部门主动找到柬埔寨政府的投资机构柬埔寨发展委员会(Council for the Development of Cambodia)，建议在暹粒建一座博物馆。
Cambodia and North Korea have historically maintained strong ties, based largely on the personal relationship between Kim Il-sung and King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, who died in 2012.
柬埔寨和朝鲜历来关系紧密。这主要是基于金日成和2012年去世的柬埔寨国王诺罗敦·西哈努克(Norodom Sihanouk)之间的私交。
In the 1970s, that North Korean leader gave King Sihanouk, who once referred to Mr. Kim as “more than a friend, more than a brother,” a palace outside Pyongyang. During his many years in exile, the Cambodian monarch spent several months annually in North Korea and even wrote and directed a series of films starring North Korean actors.
70年代，朝鲜领导人金日成将平壤郊外的一处宫殿送给了西哈努克。西哈努克曾称金日成“超越朋友，超越兄弟”。流亡在外的多年时间里，这位柬埔寨君主每年都要在朝鲜待几个月。他甚至还亲自编写剧本，执导了一系列由朝鲜人担任主演的电影。
Today, North Korea operates several restaurants in Cambodia, part of a growing overseas restaurant franchise that experts say is an important revenue generator for the financially struggling government in Pyongyang.
如今，朝鲜在柬埔寨开办了几家餐厅，属于其规模日渐扩大的餐饮生意的一部分。专家称，对财政吃紧的平壤政府来说，这门生意是一个重要的收入来源。
Unlike the restaurants, however, experts say that Mansudae, though state-run, enjoys relative autonomy from the government, including on decisions involving foreign outreach.
然而，专家称，不同于餐厅，万寿台虽属于国有，但享有相对独立于政府之外的自主性，包括涉及向外扩展的决定。
“I don’t see this museum as an attempt to project soft power,” said Nicholas Bonner, founder of the Beijing gallery Koryo Studio, who has worked with Mansudae for more than 20 years. “Mansudae is a massive studio, and they need to keep working to bring revenue in from inside and outside of the country.”
“我不认为这家博物馆是朝鲜在试图投射软实力，”和万寿台合作了20多年的北京艺廊高丽工作室(Koryo Studio)创始人尼古拉斯·邦纳(Nicholas Bonner)说。“万寿台是一个大型工作室，他们需要不停地工作，以便从国内外获取收入。”
The Angkor museum differs from past Mansudae projects in one significant way. According to museum officials and experts, it is the first in which Mansudae, which usually works on a commission basis, has invested a large amount of money.
在一个重要的方面，吴哥这家博物馆和万寿台以前的项目有所不同。据博物馆领导和专家称，万寿台的工作通常都会收费，而这是其首次投入大量资金。
“It doesn’t seem to fit into the profit-making aspect that we usually hear about Mansudae,” said Adam Cathcart, a lecturer at the University of Leeds in England. “But then again, there’s always something going on behind the scenes when it comes to North Korea.”
“我们通常会听到万寿台谋利的方面，这一次似乎不符合这一点，”英格兰利兹大学(University Of Leeds)讲师亚当·卡思卡特(Adam Cathcart)说。“但话说回来，涉及朝鲜的时候，总会有幕后的故事。”
Neither Mansudae nor the North Korean Embassy in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, responded to requests for comment relayed by email, telephone and Cambodian museum officials.
万寿台和柬埔寨首都金边的朝鲜大使馆均未回复通过电子邮件、电话和柬埔寨博物馆领导传达的置评请求。
Construction of the Angkor Panorama Museum began in 2011. Mansudae designed the structure and the cyclorama in consultation with a committee made up of Cambodian government officials, Mr. Yit said.
吴哥全景博物馆的建设施工始于2011年。伊特表示，万寿台在设计博物馆的建筑和全景画的过程中，征求了一个由柬埔寨官员组成的委员会的意见。
Proceeds from the museum are scheduled to be disbursed in three stages. Initially, revenue will go to Mansudae. After 10 years (or less, if costs are recovered before then), both sides will share revenue. And in the third and final stage, the museum — both the property and the management — will be transferred to Apsara.
按计划，博物馆的收益将分三个阶段支出。一开始，收入将归万寿台。10年（或者不到10年，如果成本提前收回的话）后，收入归双方所有。在第三个，也就是最后一个阶段，博物馆的财产和管理都将被移交给阿帕莎拉。
Long Kosal, a spokesman for Apsara, said the museum was part of a long-term plan to diversify attractions at the Angkor complex and minimize the impact of growing numbers of tourists at the temples. More than 2.5 million foreigners visited the complex last year, up from about 400,000 in 2000, Mr. Long said. He said he expected an influx of tourists to the museum soon, after the central ticket booth for the complex is moved to a new building next to the museum, which is not formally part of the complex. The entrance fee for the cyclorama section is $15 for foreign tourists.
阿帕莎拉的发言人朗·科萨尔(Long Kosal)称，博物馆是一项长远计划的一部分。该计划旨在让吴哥建筑群的景点多元化，并把日渐增多的游客对寺庙的影响降到最低。朗·科萨尔称，去年，吴哥建筑群接待了250多万外国游客，而2000年的外国游客人数约为40万。他说，预计在建筑群的中央售票厅搬去博物馆旁边的新楼时，博物馆很快便会迎来客流。博物馆目前还不是吴哥建筑群正式的一部分。针对外国游客的环形画幕门票是15美元。
In the meantime, museum officials say they are averaging only about 20 visitors a day. On a recent afternoon, there were almost none to be seen. As one of the few approached the main hall, a worker rushed to turn on the lights, explaining that the staff had been instructed to keep the lights and air-conditioning at a minimum to save money.
与此同时，博物馆领导称，每天平均只有大约20名游客。前不久的一个下午，博物馆里几乎看不到人。游客少之又少，当其中一人走近大厅时，一名工作人员急忙打开灯，解释说为了省钱，工作人员被要求尽量少开灯和空调。
“It’s very hot and humid here, not cool like back home,” a young North Korean woman working in the museum cafe said in fluent English. “It’s been difficult to adjust.”
“这里非常湿热，不像家里那么凉爽，”在博物馆的咖啡厅里，一名在那里工作的年轻朝鲜女子用流利的英语说。“难以适应。”