Every time there is a major infectious disease outbreak that scares us — Ebola in West Africa in 2014, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) on the Arabian Peninsula in 2012 and in South Korea in 2015, and now the Zika virus in South and Central America and the Caribbean — government leaders, the public and the news media demand explanations, guidance and predictions, and often express indignation that not enough was done to prevent it. Today everyone is asking about Zika: How did this crisis happen, and what do we need to do to make it go away? We immediately forget about the outbreak that came before it, and don’t plan for the ones we know are on the horizon. Almost no one wants to talk about Ebola or MERS now, or what we have or haven’t done to try to prevent an ugly recurrence.
每次有令人生畏的传染性疾病大爆发的时候——埃博拉病毒于2014年在非洲西部流行，中东呼吸综合征(MERS)于2012年在阿拉伯半岛、2015年在韩国肆掠，如今是兹卡病毒在南美州、中美州及加勒比海地区蔓延——政府领导人、公众和新闻媒体都会要求得到解释、指导和预测，往往还会对预防措施不足表示愤慨。此时此刻，每个人都在提出有关兹卡的问题：这场危机是如何发生的？我们需要做些什么来消灭它？在它之前的疫情马上被我们淡忘了，我们明知将要到来的疫情也没能得到如何应对的筹划。现在几乎没人愿意谈起埃博拉或MERS，也无人探讨我们采取或忽略了哪些措施来防止它们气势汹汹地卷土重来。
When it comes to diseases, we have a very short attention span, and we tend to be reactive, rather than proactive. Instead of devoting ourselves to a comprehensive plan to combat microbial threats, we scramble to respond to the latest one in the headlines. There are lessons from previous infectious disease outbreaks that could and should have left us much better prepared than we are.
谈到疾病，我们的关注期总是很短暂，往往是事后加以应对，而非事前主动备战。我们没有努力制订抗击微生物威胁的全面计划，而是手忙脚乱地应付新闻里曝出的最新疫情。从以往的传染病爆发得来的一些教训，可以也、应该让我们做出充分得多的准备。
First, the mosquito that transmits this disease, the species Aedes aegypti, has never been more numerous or lived in more locations. Think of Aedes aegypti as the Norway rat of mosquitoes; it has evolved to live in close quarters with humans, and the trash that humans create. This is quite different from most other species of mosquitoes, like the ones that transmit West Nile virus, which tend to lay their eggs in marshes, rice fields, ditches, the edges of streams and small, temporary rain pools.
首先，传播兹卡的埃及伊蚊(Aedes aegypti)的种群规模与分布范围空前。埃及伊蚊相当于蚊子界的挪威老鼠，并已演化为与人类及其制造的垃圾比邻而居。这和其他种群的蚊子截然不同，比如传播西尼罗河病毒的那种。那种蚊子喜欢在沼泽、稻田、水沟、流水边缘及临时的小水洼里产卵。
The world has changed dramatically in the past 40 years with regard to increasing the habitat for Aedes aegypti breeding. An explosion of plastic and rubber solid waste now litters virtually all parts of the globe, particularly in the developing world. Non-biodegradable containers, used tires and discarded plastic bags and wrappers — whether in the backyard, a roadside ditch or an abandoned lot — make ideal habitats for these mosquitoes to lay their eggs. All they need is a little rainfall.
过去40年，在增加适宜埃及伊蚊繁衍的栖息地方面，世界发生了翻天覆地的变化。塑料与橡胶固体废弃物激增，遍布地球的几乎每个角落，尤其是在发展中国家。不能生物降解的容器、废旧轮胎、丢弃的塑料袋和包装纸——无论是在后院、路边沟渠还是荒地上——都会成为这类蚊子产卵的理想地点。万事俱备，只欠一点点雨水。
This species is currently present in 12 states in the United States, mostly in the Southeast. But its close cousin, Aedes albopictus, known as the Asian tiger mosquito, came to the United States in the 1980s and is now in some 30 states, including the entire Eastern Seaboard up to New York City. For now, fortunately, this species does not appear to be a significant factor in the transmission of Zika to humans. What we in North America have to worry about is whether the Asian tiger mosquito can become a more effective transmitter of the virus to humans. If that happened, we would face a very serious risk of an outbreak here.
在美国，目前有12个州分布着埃及伊蚊，大多在东南地区。不过，它的近亲白纹伊蚊（Aedes albopictus，又称亚洲虎蚊）于80年代传入美国，如今在30州有分布，包括北至纽约市的整片东海岸地区。幸运地是，白纹伊蚊暂时并未显现出它是兹卡传染给人类的重要因素。我们这些身处北美的人要担心的是，它会不会成为兹卡病毒感染人体的更有效的媒介。假如出现了这种情况，我们将面临非常严重的在本土爆发疫情的风险。
One of the solutions to this problem is called “vector control.” It involves both eliminating the places where these mosquitoes breed, or chemically treating those sites, and spraying chemical insecticides to kill adult mosquitoes, or at least keep them away from where humans live, work and play. We must clean up the garbage to have any hope of reducing Zika infections in humans.
解决这一问题的一个办法是“病媒防治”。一方面，要消除这类蚊子繁殖的环境，或是在这些地方施加化学药品；另一方面，要喷洒化学杀虫剂来捕杀成年蚊子，或者至少让它们远离人类生活、工作和娱乐的地方。为了保有降低人类感染兹卡几率的希望，我们必须清除垃圾。
From the 1950s through the 1970s, there was a major initiative to eradicate Aedes aegypti from the Americas by public health organizations, nonprofits and national governments. It almost succeeded. In part, that was because eliminating these mosquitoes’ breeding sites was much simpler before the spread of plastic and rubber waste. But governments and nonprofit agencies decided too early that the job had been done, and dismantled these programs to save money. Now the mosquito is back.
从50年代起到70年代末，美洲的公共卫生部门、非营利机构和各国政府进行了声势浩大的灭绝本地区埃及伊蚊的运动。此事几获成功，其中一部分原因在于，那时塑料与橡胶废弃物尚未泛滥，消灭这类蚊子的繁殖地要简单得多。然而，各国政府与非营利机构过早地下了定论，认为任务已经完成，于是取消了相关项目来节省资金。如今，埃及伊蚊卷土重来。
This is not new science or new policy. Now we’ve got an outbreak on our hands, and although the symptoms of Zika itself are absent to mild for most, for some there can be devastating consequences to infection. An increasing number of infected women have given birth to babies with microcephaly, which causes small heads and brain damage. We’re learning that Zika can lead to Guillain-Barré syndrome, a dangerous autoimmune disorder that can cause paralysis. Some believe we need more scientific data to confirm these more severe manifestations. I don’t agree; I believe the evidence is already compelling.
这不是什么科学新知或政策新规。我们眼前就有一场疫情在爆发。尽管兹卡本身可以毫无症状、至多是有温和反应，但对有些人来说，感染可能会带来严重后果。染上兹卡的孕妇生出小头症婴儿的病例越来越多。这种疾病会导致新生儿头部过小和脑损伤。我们还逐渐得知，兹卡可以带来格林-巴利综合征(Guillain-Barré Syndrome)。这是一种危险的自体免疫疾病，能导致瘫痪。一些人认为我们需要更多的科学证据来坐实这些更严重的症状。我本人不同意；我认为现有的证据已经很能说明问题了。
We shouldn’t have needed thousands of babies born with severe birth defects or people of all ages developing life-threatening autoimmune paralysis to remind us that mosquitoes pose a serious health threat. Dengue viruses, which are also transmitted by these two mosquito species, caused 2.3 million cases of dengue fever and far more serious dengue hemorrhagic fever in 2013 in the same countries in the Americas that have been, or will be, affected by Zika. These included more than 37,000 severe illnesses and 1,300 deaths. And yet these numbers hardly raised an eyebrow in the United States. If we had paid more attention then, we might be more prepared now.
我们不应该等到出现成千上万个有严重先天缺陷的婴儿，或各个年龄段的人都出现危及生命的免疫系统瘫痪，才意识到这些蚊子的确给我们的健康构成严重威胁。同样是在已经出现和即将出现兹卡病毒的这些美洲国家，2013年爆发的登革热病毒(Dengue)曾导致2300万人出现登革热和比之严重得多的登革出血热，其中包括3.7万多严重病例和1300个死亡病例。而登革热病毒也是由上述两种蚊子传播。但这些数字当时几乎没有引起美国的注意。如果我们当时多一些关注，可能也不会像现在这么措手不及。
Zika is here to stay in the Western Hemisphere; it will be part of life for many years to come. Even if we make vector control efforts a major initiative, it will only reduce, but not eliminate, the risk of Zika. What we need next, urgently, is a vaccine.
兹卡病毒会在西半球存在下去；在未来多年，它们都是我们生活的一部分。即便我们大大加强病媒控制举措，它也只能减少，而非完全消除兹卡病毒的风险。我们下一步所急需的是疫苗。
Some critics are suggesting that such vaccine research for Zika should have been done years ago, but this isn’t entirely fair. It was only in the past two years that there was any indication this virus could cause serious human disease. Now we have to catch up. But it’s going to be complicated. If Guillain-Barré syndrome is indeed caused by the patient’s immune response to the virus, as happens with other infectious diseases, could the vaccine itself put us at risk? This will take careful research to determine. And it will take time.
一些批评者表示，针对兹卡病毒的疫苗研究多年前就该开始，但这种说法有欠公允。因为直到过去两年，才有迹象显示这类病毒可能会引起严重的人类疾病。现在，我们必须迎头赶上。不过这种研究会非常复杂。如果格利-巴林综合症的确是因这种病毒对人体免疫力造成影响而产生，就像其他传染性疾病一样，疫苗自身会给我们带来风险吗？要有深入的研究才能得出相关结论，而这需要时间。
The point is, we should have anticipated that the large increase in mosquitoes would create a major health crisis. Just as we should have anticipated that a deadly hemorrhagic disease caused by the Ebola virus would emerge one day from the remote forests and threaten the vast slums of the rapidly growing megacities of Africa. We should now anticipate that the MERS virus will result in more deadly outbreaks outside of the Arabian Peninsula, as it did in Seoul, South Korea. We should anticipate that viruses such as Venezuelan equine encephalitis may spread from their jungle homes and be even more deadly than Zika.
问题是，我们本该预料到，这些蚊子大量增加会产生重大的卫生危机。正如我们也该预料到，埃博拉病毒导致的致命出血疾病有一天会从遥远的森林里传播出来，危及非洲迅速发展的大都市里数目巨大的贫民窟人群的生命。现在，我们应该考虑到，MERS病毒会在阿拉伯半岛以外的地方引发更多致命疫情，就像韩国首尔所发生的。我们应该预料到，委内瑞拉马脑炎可能也会从其生发的热带雨林传播出来，而且其致命性甚至可能比兹卡病毒更高。
Even more than these viruses, we should be afraid of a planet-wide catastrophe caused by influenza. The best way to avert a pandemic is to develop a game-changing universal influenza vaccine. All these crises are largely predictable and we can do much in advance to lessen the effects and diminish the spread. And believe me, the cost of acting now will be infinitely less than the cost of not acting in the long run.
更重要的是，我们应该对流感造成的全球性灾难感到担忧。避免流感大爆发的最佳方式，是开发出一种可以改变目前游戏规则的普适性的流感疫苗。所有这些危机基本上都是可以预测的，我们可以预先做更多努力，以减轻其影响，缩小传播范围。相信我，从长远看，现在行动的成本肯定比不行动的代价要小。