Long before the latest election in Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu was a polarizing figure among American Jews. But even many of his supporters said this week that they were appalled at his last-minute bid to mobilize Jewish voters by warning that Arabs were going to the polls in droves, and his renunciation of a two-state solution to the Palestinian crisis.
在最近这一次以色列选举之前，本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在美国犹太人当中早就是一个会带来两极化评价的人物。然而本周，就连他的许多支持者也表示，对他这次的行为感到震惊。在选战最后时刻，他通过警告阿拉伯人正成群结队地前去投票来试图动员犹太选民，并且宣布弃用两国方案来应对巴勒斯坦危机。
Mr. Netanyahu’s party won the election and cheers from hawkish American Jews. But in interviews this week, rabbis, scholars and Jews from across the country and a range of denominations said that with his campaign tactics, he had further divided American Jews and alienated even some conservatives, who had already suspected that he was more committed to building settlements than to building peace with the Palestinians.
内塔尼亚胡领导的政党赢得了选举，以及来自美国犹太人当中鹰派的欢呼。但在本周受访时，来自全国各地和多个派别的拉比、学者和普通犹太人表示，因为他的竞选策略，导致美国犹太人进一部分化，甚至还疏远了一些保守派——他们本来就怀疑，和打造与巴勒斯坦之间的和平相比，他更加致力于打造定居点。
Even with Mr. Netanyahu’s postelection interview walking back his statements against a two-state plan for peace with Palestinians, many Jews say they are worried that the most lasting outcome of the elections will be the increasing isolation of Israel — not only around the world but also from the younger generation of American Jews. Unlike their parents and grandparents, these Jews have grown up in an era when Israel is portrayed not as a heroic underdog but as an oppressive occupier, and many of them tend to see Mr. Netanyahu as out of step with their views on Israel and the world.
在选举结束后接受采访时，内塔尼亚胡从反对通过两国方案实现与巴勒斯坦之间和平的论调上有所回撤。但很多犹太人表示，他们担心此次选举最持久的结果会是以色列越来越被孤立，不仅是在世界其他地方，而且还在美国年轻一代犹太人当中。不像父母和祖父母辈，在这些年轻人成长的时代，以色列被描述成了一个实行压迫的占领方，而非英勇的弱势方，而且他们中的许多人往往认为，内塔尼亚胡在对以色列和这个世界的看法上与他们步调不一。
Aaron Voldman, 27, who recently returned to Wisconsin after a year studying on a fellowship in Israel, said he was still “outraged” at Mr. Netanyahu’s campaign, especially his election-eve pledge that there would be no Palestinian state if he was re-elected.
27岁的亚伦·沃尔德曼(Aaron Voldman)曾在获得奖学金后在以色列留学一年，前不久回到了威斯康星州。他说，自己依然对内塔尼亚胡的竞选“感到愤慨”，特别是他在选举前夕承诺，只要连任就决不允许巴勒斯坦建国。
“It is the only viable option to secure peace in the Holy Land — how could he, in good conscience, just write it off?” said Mr. Voldman, who like many Israelis speaks of Mr. Netanyahu using his nickname. “Bibi is not committed to doing what needs to be done to secure peace and justice. The Palestinians did not have a willing partner in his administration during the last round of negotiations.”
“这是在圣地确保和平的唯一可行选择——他怎么能这样明目张胆地否定这个方案？”沃尔德曼问道。和很多以色列人一样，他谈到内塔尼亚胡时用的是他的昵称。“比比(Bibi)没有致力于采取实现和平和正义所需的行动。在上一轮谈判中，他领导的政府并不是乐于和巴基斯坦合作的伙伴。”
Anguish over Israel, after intensifying through the final days of the campaign, is now stirring up discussion among American Jews online, at synagogues from coast to coast and even among some rabbis and Jewish organizational leaders who are understanding of Mr. Netanyahu’s statements that he is above all concerned about Israel’s security. They say they have watched as American Jews pull away from Israel, alienated by the intractable conflict with the Palestinians and the expansion of Jewish settlements.
美国犹太人在以色列问题上的苦恼，在竞选的最后几天里持续加剧，现在又在网上、全美各地犹太教堂的信众，乃至一些拉比和犹太组织的领袖中引发了讨论。对内塔尼亚胡宣称自己最关心的是以色列的安全的说法，后者本来持理解态度。参与谈论的人士称，自己眼看着美国犹太人拉开了与以色列的距离，因为它与巴勒斯坦之间难以解决的冲突及犹太人定居点的扩张问题而与之疏远。
Rabbi Misha Zinkow at Temple Israel in Columbus, Ohio, said that one of his foremost concerns was “the lack of engagement of North American Jews with Israel” — a trend that he sees expanding among younger Jews.
在俄亥俄州哥伦布的以色列圣殿(Temple Israel)，拉比米沙·辛诺(Misha Zinkow)称，他最担心的事情之一是“北美犹太人与以色列缺乏联系”。他发现，在犹太年轻人中，这一趋势正在扩大。
“The scare tactics that emerged in the 11th hour of the election appealed to very deep anxiety and fear,” said Rabbi Zinkow, who leads a 145-year-old Reform congregation with a membership of about 550 households. “They deepen the distance and provide fodder for those who want to disengage. Those statements appealed to emotions that young American Jews just don’t have, and they sound racist.”
“在选举最后一刻出现的恐吓策略，令人深感焦虑和担忧，”辛诺拉比说。他领导的是一个有145年历史的改革派教会，拥有大约550户教众。“它们拉大了分歧，为那些想抽身而去的人提供了口实。那些言论想要去鼓动一种情感，可是美国年轻犹太人并没有那样的情感，而且它们听上去有种族主义色彩。”
He was planning in his Friday night sermon to talk about the relationship between American Jews and Israel. “We’re family,” he plans to say. “Families have disagreements and disappointments and betrayal.
他正计划在周五晚上步道时讨论美国犹太人与以色列的关系。“我们是家人，”他打算说。“家人之间也有不和、失望和背叛。”
“Don’t let your disappointments cause you to walk away.”
“不要让自己因为失望而转身离去。”
The Jewish establishment’s calls for unity, however, are now competing with demands for escalated activism.
然而，犹太权威阶层的团结呼声，现在面临着来自加强行动的诉求的竞争。
In a widely discussed opinion piece in Haaretz, Peter Beinart, a liberal critic of Israel, argued this week that those who support Israel should pressure the Obama administration to present its own peace plan “and to punish — yes, punish — the Israeli government for rejecting it.
本周，在《国土报》(Haaretz)一篇被广泛讨论的观点文章中，对以色列持批评意见的自由派人士彼得·贝纳特(Peter Beinart)提出，支持以色列的人应该向奥巴马政府施压，要求其拿出自己的和平计划，“并在以色列政府予以拒绝时对其进行惩罚——对，是惩罚。”
“It means making sure that every time Benjamin Netanyahu and the members of his cabinet walk into a Jewish event outside Israel,” he wrote, “they see diaspora Jews protesting outside.”
“这意味着，每当本雅明·内塔尼亚胡及其内阁成员在以色列境外的犹太活动上现身时，”他写道，“确保他们会发现，海外犹太人在抗议。”
Rob Eshman, publisher and editor in chief of The Jewish Journal, a mainstream Jewish newspaper in Los Angeles, wrote this week that the election results show that Israeli and American Jews “are drifting apart.”
洛杉矶的犹太人主流媒体《犹太日报》(The Jewish Journal)的出版人兼主编罗布·艾什曼(Rob Eshman)本周写道，这次选举的结果显示，以色列犹太人和美国犹太人“正在渐行渐远”。
And on Thursday, the Conservative Jewish movement’s rabbinical arm, the Rabbinical Assembly, took the unusual step of issuing a statement condemning Mr. Netanyahu for putting out a video on social media during the election campaign warning that “right-wing rule is in danger” because Arab voters were streaming to the polls. The video was widely criticized as race-baiting, and it offended the sensibilities of American Jewish leaders who have long proclaimed with pride that Israel is a democracy in which the Arab minority has the right to vote.
周四，隶属于犹太教保守派运动的拉比大会(Rabbinical Assembly)做出了前所未有的举动，发布了一份声明，谴责内塔尼亚胡竞选期间在社交媒体上发布的一则视频。该视频警告，由于阿拉伯选民正在源源不断地涌向投票站，“右翼统治正面临着危险。”这则视频被认为是在进行种族煽动，招致了广泛的批评，此外，它还触动了美国犹太领袖的敏感神经。后者长期以来一直不无骄傲地宣称，以色列是一个民主国家，那里的阿拉伯少数族裔拥有投票权。
Rabbi William Gershon and Rabbi Julie Schonfeld, the president and executive vice president of the Rabbinical Assembly, said, “This statement, which indefensibly singled out the Arab citizens of Israel, is unacceptable and undermines the principles upon which the State of Israel was founded.”
拉比大会的会长威廉·格申(William Gershon)和执行副会长朱莉·舒恩菲尔德(Julie Schonfeld)表示，“这一表态无可辩解地针对以色列的阿拉伯公民，是不可接受的，破坏了以色列国创立时的原则。”
Mr. Netanyahu tried to explain himself in interviews on Thursday with several American outlets. “I wasn’t trying to block anyone from voting; I was trying to mobilize my own voters,” he told National Public Radio.
周四，内塔尼亚胡在接受几家美国媒体采访时试图为自己辩解。他对全国公共广播电台(National Public Radio)表示，“我不是要阻止任何人投票；我是为了动员自己的选民。”
And of course, plenty of American Jews were not disappointed by the election results. At Congregation B’nai Israel, a politically active Reform synagogue in Sacramento, Rabbi Mona Alfi said that she had been teaching a women’s study group in the evening as the election results were coming in, and that there had been a wide range of opinions on Mr. Netanyahu’s candidacy.
当然，美国犹太人当中并未对选举结果感到失望的大有人在。在政治活跃的萨克门托改革派犹太教组织圣约以色列教会(Congregation B’nai Israel)，拉比莫娜·阿尔菲(Mona Alfi)称，选举结果传来的当晚，她在给一个女性研习小组授课。人们对内塔尼亚胡的竞选的看法各有不同。
“One woman was really excited when it looked like Bibi was winning the exit polls,” Rabbi Alfi said. “Another was expressing hope that it would be a different result. My congregation is like the majority of American Jews. It is more of a center-left congregation on Israeli politics, but we do have a very strong contingent of Bibi supporters as well.”
“当比比看来要在出口民调中获胜的时候，有一名女子非常兴奋，”阿尔菲拉比说。“另一个人则表示，希望是另一种结局。我的教众代表了美国犹太人中的多数。对于以色列政治，他们更多是持中左翼立场，但我们也有一个相当强大的比比支持团。”
Orthodox Jews are often more reliable supporters of Mr. Netanyahu and his party, Likud, and they have tended to stay loyal. Rabbi Sidney Shoham is a retired Modern Orthodox rabbi who at 86 spends his winters in a predominantly Jewish apartment building in Boca Raton, Fla., where the televisions in the gym are often tuned to Fox News. He said he and other residents cheered Mr. Netanyahu’s recent speech to the joint meeting of Congress warning President Obama against signing a nuclear deal with Iran, and he welcomed the prime minister’s re-election.
正统派犹太教徒通常是内塔尼亚胡及其政党利库德(Likud)的较为可靠的支持者，而且他们倾向于保持忠诚。悉尼·舒哈姆(Sidney Shoham)是一名已经退休的现代正统派犹太教拉比，现年86岁，正在佛罗里达州博卡拉顿的一栋主要由犹太人居住的公寓楼里过冬。在那里，健身馆的电视台通常会调到Fox新闻台。他说，内塔尼亚胡不久前在美国国会两院的联合会议上发表演讲，警告奥巴马不要与伊朗达成核协议，这让他本人和其他一些居民感到振奋，他也欢迎这位总理获得连任。
“My greatest thrill is that Netanyahu was able to pull off a feat that in my opinion was not only good for the morale of Israel and the security of Israel, but finally put Obama in his place,” said Rabbi Shoham.
“我最激动的是，内塔尼亚胡有能力赢得胜利。在我看来，这次胜利不仅有益于以色列的士气和安全，还终于灭了奥巴马的威风，”舒哈姆说。
He said that he saw Israel was becoming more isolated internationally, but that he was not terribly troubled by it because of what he said was a basic Jewish principle: “Being more or less in control of your own self, your own country, or your own being is much more important than being loved by others.”
他表示，自己看到了以色列在国际上越来越孤立，但并没有感到严重困扰，原因是他口中的犹太人的一个基本原则：几乎能掌控你自己，掌控自己的国家，掌控自己的福祉，比受到他人的喜爱要重要得多。
But as criticism of Mr. Netanyahu continues to mount — Mr. Obama directly told him Thursday that the United States would have to “reassess our options” after the prime minister’s “new positions and comments” on the two-state solution — many other Jewish leaders are deeply disturbed at the prospect of Israel as a pariah.
然而，随着内塔尼亚胡受到的批评不断增多——在这位总理对两国解决方案提出了“新的立场和评论”之后，奥巴马周四直言不讳地告诉他，在他对两国方案提出了“新的立场和评论”之后，美国将需要“重新评估我们的选项”——其他犹太领袖当中，不少人对以色列成为一个受人唾弃的国家的可能性深感不安。