TEL AVIV — After a bruising campaign focused on his failings, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel won a clear victory in Tuesday’s elections and seemed all but certain to form a new government and serve a fourth term, though he offended many voters and alienated allies in the process.
特拉维夫——在一场聚焦于他的软肋的激烈选战过后，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在周二的选举中获得大胜，将组建新政府，开始自己的第四个任期。不过，在这一过程中，他得罪了许多选民，疏远了不少盟友。
With 99.5 percent of the ballots counted, the YNet news site reported Wednesday morning that Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud Party had captured 29 or 30 of the 120 seats in Parliament, sweeping past his chief rival, the center-left Zionist Union alliance, which got 24 seats.
计票已进行了99.5%，YNet新闻网站周三上午报道，在议会的120个席位中，内塔尼亚胡所在的利库德党(Likud Party)已经赢得了29或30席，而他的劲敌、中左阵营的犹太复国主义联盟(Zionist Union)赢得24席。
Mr. Netanyahu and his allies seized on the early numbers to create an aura of inevitability, celebrating with singing and dancing. While his opponents vowed a fight, Israeli political analysts agreed that he had the advantage, with more votes having gone to the right-leaning parties likely to support him.
内塔尼亚胡及其盟友抓住这些早期数据制造了一种必胜的气氛，载歌载舞地庆祝。尽管对手发誓要进行抗争，但以色列的政治分析人士一致认为，内塔尼亚胡占有优势，因为更多选票流向了可能会支持他的右倾政党。
It was a turnabout from the last pre-election polls published Friday, which showed the Zionist Union, led by Isaac Herzog, with a four- or five-seat lead and building momentum. To bridge the gap, Mr. Netanyahu embarked on a last-minute scorched-earth campaign, promising that no Palestinian state would be established as long as he remained in office and insulting Arab citizens.
和上周五公布的最后一次选前民调结果相比，形势发生了转变。那次民调显示，艾萨克·赫尔佐格(Isaac Herzog)领导的犹太复国主义联盟领先四五个席位，且势头越来越强劲。为了缩小差距，内塔尼亚胡最后时刻奋力一搏，承诺只要他留任就不会允许巴勒斯坦建国，还对以色列的阿拉伯人进行了侮辱。
Mr. Netanyahu, who served as prime minister for three years in the 1990s and returned to office in 2009, exulted in what he called “a huge victory” and said he had spoken to the heads of all the parties “in the national camp” and urged them to help him form a government “without any further ado.”
内塔尼亚胡曾在上世纪90年代担任过三年的总理，并在2009年重登总理之位。他将本次选举称为“巨大胜利”，并为此欣喜不已，表示自己已同“民族阵营”中所有政党的负责人通过话，敦促他们“事不宜迟”，协助他组建政府。
“I am proud of the Israeli people, that in the moment of truth knew how to separate between what’s important or what’s not and to stand up for what’s important,” he told an exuberant crowd early Wednesday morning at Likud’s election party at the Tel Aviv Fairgrounds. “For the most important thing for all of us, which is real security, social economy and strong leadership.”
“我为以色列民众感到自豪，在关键时刻，他们知道如何区分轻重缓急，挺身支持重要的事情，”他周三凌晨在特拉维夫展览馆(Tel Aviv Fairgrounds)的利库德选举庆功活动上对热情洋溢的人群说。“对我们所有人来说，最重要的是真正的安全、社会经济和强有力的领导。”
But it remained to be seen how his divisive — some said racist — campaign tactics would affect his ability to govern a fractured Israel.
不过，他那些制造分裂的——甚至有人说是种族主义——竞选策略，将对他治理派系林立的以色列的能力有何影响，还有待观察。
Mr. Herzog also celebrated what he called “an incredible achievement,” noting that his Labor Party had not won as many seats since 1992. He said he had formed a negotiating team in hopes of forming “a real social government in Israel” that “aspires to peace with our neighbors.”
赫尔佐格也对他口中的“令人难以置信的成就”进行了庆祝，并且指出，他领导的工党(Labor Party)自1992年以来从未赢得过这么多席位。他表示，自己已经成立了一个谈判团队，希望“在以色列组建一个致力于同邻国和平共处的真正的社会政府”。
“The public wants a change,” he said at an election-night party in Tel Aviv. “We will do everything in our power — given the reality — to reach this. In any case, I can tell you that there will be no decisions tonight.”
“公众希望看到变化，”选举当晚他在特拉维夫的一场聚会上说。“我们将在现实允许的范畴里竭尽所能，力图达到这个目标。无论如何，我可以向你们保证，今晚不会有定论。”
If the exit polls hold up, Mr. Netanyahu may be able to form a narrow coalition of nationalist and religious parties free of the ideological divisions that stymied his last government. That was what he intended when he called early elections in December. But such a coalition, with a slim parliamentary majority, might not last long.
如果出口民调与事实相符，内塔尼亚胡或许能够组建一个仅由民族主义和宗教党派组成的小范围执政联盟，摆脱制约他上一届政府的意识形态分歧。这正是他去年12月宣布提前进行选举时所期望的。然而，在议会仅占微弱多数的这样一个联盟，可能不会持续很长时间。
In the coming days, President Reuven Rivlin will poll party leaders to see whom they prefer as prime minister and then charge Mr. Netanyahu or Mr. Herzog with trying to stitch together a coalition, though Mr. Rivlin said Tuesday night that he would suggest they join forces instead.
未来几天，以色列总统鲁文·里夫林(Reuven Rivlin)将征求各党领袖的意见，看他们倾向于由谁担任总理，然后再委托内塔尼亚胡或赫尔佐格尝试组建一个联合政府。不过，里夫林在周二夜里表示，他会建议两人携手。
“I am convinced that only a unity government can prevent the rapid disintegration of Israel’s democracy and new elections in the near future,” he told the Israeli newspaper Haaretz.
“我确信，只有一个团结的政府才能阻止以色列民主迅速瓦解，阻止在不久的将来进行新的选举，”他对以色列《国土报》(Haaretz)表示。
Both camps rejected that option publicly, saying the gaps between their world views was too large. Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Herzog started working the phones immediately after the polls closed, calling party heads to begin the horse-trading and deal-making in hopes of lining up a majority of lawmakers behind them.
两个阵营均公开反对这一提议，宣称双方在世界观上差异太大。投票一结束，内塔尼亚胡和赫尔佐格就都开始把大把精力花在致电各党派领导人上，以便启动讨价还价和进行交易的进程，希望以此联合到多数议员支持自己。
The biggest prize may be Moshe Kahlon, a popular former Likud minister who broke away — in part out of frustration with Mr. Netanyahu — to form Kulanu, which focused on pocketbook issues. Mr. Kahlon leans to the right but has issues with the prime minister, and said Tuesday night that he would not reveal his recommendation until the final results were tallied.
最值得争取的或许是摩西·卡隆(Moshe Kahlon)。他颇受欢迎，过去属于利库德党，曾任内阁部长，但后来脱党——部分原因是对内塔尼亚胡不满——成立了关注经济问题的全民党(Kulanu)。卡隆本人立场右倾，但他与内塔尼亚胡之间存在矛盾。他周二晚间表示，最终结果清点完毕之前不会透露自己的想法。
Kulanu — Hebrew for “All of Us” — is likely to win nine or 10 seats, according to the exit polls, enough to put either side’s basic ideological alliance over the magic number of 61 if they also win the backing of two ultra-Orthodox parties, which appear to have a total of 14.
“Kulanu”在希伯来语里意为“我们大家”。根据出口民调的预测，该党可能会获得9或10个席位，足以让任何一方的基本意识形态联盟达到组阁所需的61席，不过前提是还要赢得两个极端正统犹太团体的支持。后者的席位加起来似乎可达14个。
“The clearest political outcome is that Kahlon is going to be the kingmaker, and it really depends on how he is going to play his cards,” said Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute. “It very much depends on Kahlon.”
“最明朗的政治后果是，卡隆会成为左右总理人选的关键人物，真的就是看他会怎样来打手中的牌了，”以色列民主研究所(Israel Democracy Institute)所长约哈南·普莱斯纳(Yohanan Plesner)说。“这很大程度上取决于卡隆的态度。”
Silvan Shalom, a Likud minister, told reporters that the prime minister would reach out first to Naftali Bennett of the Jewish Home party and to Avigdor Lieberman of Yisrael Beiteinu, two archconservatives, and “of course Moshe Kahlon,” predicting a coalition “within the next few days” of 63 or 64 seats.
来自利库德党的内阁部长西尔万·沙洛姆(Silvan Shalom)告诉记者，内塔尼亚胡首先会接触犹太家园党(Jewish Home)的纳夫塔利·贝内特(Naftali Bennett)和以色列家园党(Yisrael Beiteinu)的阿维格多·利伯曼(Avigdor Lieberman)，两党均属极端保守派，“当然还有摩西·卡隆”。他还预测，一个拥有63或64个席位的执政联盟将在“未来数天内”组建起来。
The murky results led to a murky reaction from the White House, where a spokesman said that President Obama “remains committed to working very closely with the winner of the ongoing elections to cement and further deepen the strong relationship between the United States and Israel, and the president is confident that he can do that with whomever the Israeli people choose.”
选举结果的不明朗导致了白宫的含混回应。一名发言人表示，奥巴马总统“仍将致力于与正在进行的选举中的获胜者密切合作，从而巩固并增进美以之间的良好关系，总统也相信，他能与以色列民众选择的任何人合作。”
If the exit polls are correct, the Joint List of Arab parties would be the third-largest parliamentary faction, with 13 seats, up from 11 currently held by its four component parts. The unity seems to have lifted turnout among Arab voters to its highest level since 1969, said the list’s leader, Ayman Odeh. Arab parties have never joined an Israeli coalition, but Mr. Odeh has indicated that he would try to help Mr. Herzog in other ways in hopes of ending Mr. Netanyahu’s tenure.
如果出口民调的预测准确的话，阿拉伯政党联盟(Joint List of Arab)将成为国会的第三大派别，拿下13席，比其四个组成政党目前握有的11个席位有所增加。联盟领袖艾曼·乌达(Ayman Odeh)表示，它们的联手似乎让阿拉伯选民的投票率升至1969年以来的最高水平。阿拉伯政党从未进入以色列的联合政府，但乌达表达了自己会尝试以其他形式帮助赫尔佐格的意愿，以期终结内塔尼亚胡的任期。
Turnout was near 72 percent, 4 percentage points higher than in 2013, which analysts attributed to the surprisingly close contest between Likud and Zionist Union.
此次选举的整体投票率接近72%，比2013年高出了4个百分点。分析人士将这归因于利库德党与犹太复国主义联盟之间出人意料的胶着选情。
“For the first time in many years, we see a serious strengthening in the two major parties,” said Yehuda Ben Meir of the Institute for National Security Studies. “Both parties are higher up at the expense of the smaller parties, which is good for stability, and it’s a move to the center. The larger parties are always more to the center than the satellite parties.”
“多年来，我们第一次看到，两大政治集团的力量在真正加强，”国家安全研究所(Institute for National Security Studies)的耶胡达·本·梅尔(Yehuda Ben Meir)说。“两边都从小政党那里挖了地盘。这对稳定有利，是在朝中间靠拢。大的政党总是比卫星政党更接近中间立场。”
But Mr. Plesner of the Democracy Institute said the uncertain results showed the need for electoral reform because Israel’s “system is so fragmented, so unstable, so difficult to govern.”
不过，民主研究所的普莱斯纳表示，结果的不确定表明有必要进行选举改革，因为以色列的“制度太分化、太不稳定、太难以执政”。
Many voters complained about a bitter campaign of ugly attacks and a lack of inspiring choices.
许多选民抱怨，这次严酷的竞选充满了丑陋的攻击，却没有令人激动的选择可言。
“I am happy today to be able to vote, but I know I’ll be unhappy with the result, no matter who wins,” said Elad Grafi, 29, who lives in Rehovot, a large city south of Tel Aviv. Sneering at the likelihood of any candidate being able to form a coalition stable enough to last a full term, he added: “Anyway, I’ll see you here again in two years, right?”
“我很高兴今天能投票，但我知道自己不会对选举结果满意，不管谁赢，”29岁的雷霍沃特(Rehovot)居民埃拉德·格拉菲(Elad Grafi)说。他生活的地方位于特拉维夫以南，是座大城市。对于任何一名候选人成功组建执政联盟，并且坚持一个完整任期的的可能性，他也进行了揶揄：“反正，我两年后还会在这里见到你，对吧？”
In the Jerusalem suburb of Tzur Hadassah, Eli Paniri, 54, a longtime Likud supporter, said he “voted for the only person who should be prime minister — Netanyahu.”
在耶路撒冷的郊区哈大沙岩(Tzur Hadassah)，54岁的伊莱·帕尼里(Eli Paniri)长期支持利库德党，他表示自己“投给了唯一应该当总理的人——内塔尼亚胡”。