Now that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has made his case on Iran before Congress, with all the circus atmosphere it involved, let’s get to the serious questions: What is America’s interest in striking a deal with Iran? Because our interests and Israel’s are not fully aligned. What is the minimum we need to satisfy our interests? And how should we balance the critiques of our policy from the serious Bibi versus the cynical Bibi?
既然以色列总理内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)已经在国会面前阐明了自己在伊朗问题上的观点，并造成了喧闹氛围，我们就来讨论几个严肃的问题吧：美国与伊朗达成协议的好处是什么？因为我们的利益和以色列的利益并非完全一致。满足我们的利益需求最起码需要什么？以及我们应如何平衡那个严肃的比比（Bibi，内塔尼亚胡的昵称——译注），和那个怀揣私心的比比对我们外交政策的批评。
What both the United States and Israel agree on, and I certainly do, is that Iran must be prevented from building a nuclear bomb, because it could be used to threaten the Jewish state and, once loaded onto a missile, Europe and the Arab states as well. Moreover, if Iran gets a bomb, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt would surely be tempted to do so as well, and, suddenly, you’d have a Middle East that is already full of sectarian proxy wars also full of nuclear weapons — with few of the deterrent safeguards you had during the Cold War between Washington and Moscow. There are actors in the Middle East for whom “mutual assured destruction” is an invitation to a party — not a system of mutual deterrence. Also, if Iran gets a bomb, there’s a good chance the whole global nuclear nonproliferation regime, already frayed, would totally unravel, which would be very destabilizing.
在必须阻止伊朗研制核弹这一点上，美国和以色列意见一致，我当然也同意，因为核弹可能会被用来威胁以色列这个犹太国家，并且一旦被搭载在导弹上，还可能危及欧洲和阿拉伯国家。此外，如果伊朗拥有了核弹，沙特阿拉伯、土耳其和埃及肯定也会受到诱惑，加以效仿。届时，我们会突然发现，中东已到处是受到操纵的宗派战争，并且充满核武器，却鲜有冷战期间华盛顿与莫斯科之间的那种威慑性保护措施。对中东的部分力量来说，“确保相互毁灭”是宴会邀请函，而不是一个相互威慑制度。而且，如果伊朗有了核弹，本已遭到破坏的全球防止核扩散制度很有可能会完全瓦解，这会非常影响稳定。
Here, President Obama and Netanyahu share the same concerns. And, in fairness, I doubt there would have been the sanctions and negotiations we have today with Iran had Bibi not threatened to go full “Dr. Strangelove” on Tehran.
在这一点上，奥巴马总统和内塔尼亚胡有同样的担忧。而且说句公道话，我怀疑如果比比不威胁要对伊朗全面采取《奇爱博士》(Dr. Strangelove)中的策略，就不会有我们现如今对伊朗实行的制裁，以及与其进行的谈判。
However, Bibi argues that any deal should eliminate all of Iran’s centrifuges and related components that can enrich material for a bomb. I don’t begrudge him that wish. Most of my Israeli friends share it. But, as Robert Einhorn, a former member of the U.S. negotiating team with Iran, observed in an Op-Ed article in The Times, that position “is neither achievable nor necessary” to safeguard our security or that of our Mideast allies.
然而，比比主张，一切协议都应该消除伊朗所有离心机，以及能浓缩核弹材料的相关零部件。我没有因为他有这样的愿望而感到不快。我的大部分以色列朋友都有这样的愿望。但正如曾代表美方参与对伊朗谈判的罗伯特·艾因霍恩(Robert Einhorn)在《时报》的一篇特约文章中所评论的那样，对于保护我们或中东盟友的安全来说，那种目标“既不可实现，也没有必要”。
Netanyahu never made a convincing argument as to why walking away from Obama’s draft deal with Iran would result in either a better deal, more sanctions or an Iranian capitulation — and not a situation where Iran would continue to build toward a bomb and our only two choices would be to live with it or bomb it, with all the mess that could entail. In that sense, Bibi’s speech was perfect for Congress: I’ve got a better plan, and it won’t cost a thing or require any sacrifice by the American people. The guy could be a congressman.
关于为什么放弃奥巴马与伊朗的协议草案要么会给我们带来一项更好的协议，让伊朗受到更多制裁，要么会让伊朗投降，而不会造成伊朗继续研制核弹的局面，内塔尼亚胡之前从未给出过令人信服的理由。而一旦伊朗一意孤行，我们只有接受现实和轰炸伊朗并引发一片混乱这两个选择。从这个意义上来说，比比的演讲对国会而言颇为完美：我有更好的计划，不会有任何代价，也不要求美国人做出牺牲。这家伙都可以当美国的国会议员了。
The U.S. position — shared by China, Russia, Germany, Britain and France — is: Given that Iran has already mastered the techniques to make a bomb and managed to import all the components to do so, despite sanctions, it is impossible to eliminate Iran’s bomb-making capabilities. What is possible is to demand that Iran roll back its enrichment and other technologies so that if Iran decided one day to make a bomb, it would take it a year — more than enough time for the U.S. and its allies to destroy it.
美国的观点——也是中国、俄罗斯、德国、英国和法国的观点——是：尽管受到了制裁，伊朗仍然掌握了制造核弹的技术，并且得以进口所有必需的零部件，鉴于此，彻底消除伊朗制造核弹的能力是不可能的。我们可以做到的是，要求伊朗把铀浓缩和其他技术的程度降低，这样一来，如果伊朗哪天决定制造一枚核弹，也要花上一年的时间——这就给了美国及其盟友毁掉它的充裕时间。
I think such a deal would be in America’s interest if — if — it includes Iran agreeing to constant, intrusive and unannounced inspections of, and limits on, all bomb-making capacities and if, even after the specified 10 years, there are more-than-the-usual inspections. I would also welcome Congress accompanying the deal by granting the president formal authorization — right now — to use “any means necessary” to respond should Iran try to break out of the deal.
我认为，如果伊朗在协议中同意接受经常性的、深入的突然袭击式检查，以及对其制造核弹的能力进行限制，并在规定的10年之后，还有超出通常水平的检查，协议才会对美国有利。如果在达成这样协议的同时，国会让总统拥有正式的授权，让他可以在伊朗试图打破这份协议时，使用“任何必要的手段”进行回应，那我也表示赞成。
These conditions would satisfy U.S. strategic concerns, while opening the possibility — nothing more — for Iran to become more integrated into the global system. Ultimately, the only safeguard against Iran’s nuclear ambitions is an internally driven change in the character of Iran’s regime.
这些前提条件将打消美国在战略上的顾虑，同时开创伊朗进一步融入全球体系的前景，仅此而已。最终，唯一能保护我们不受伊朗核野心侵害的，就是伊朗政权性质的自发性改变。
My problem with Netanyahu is that he warned that the interim deal Obama negotiated with Iran — which froze and rolled back parts of Iran’s nuclear program and created these negotiations — would lead to a collapse of sanctions and be violated by Iran. None of it happened.
我对内塔尼亚胡的不满在于，他警告说，奥巴马与伊朗谈判达成的临时协议——该协议冻结和削弱了伊朗核计划的部分项目，促成了目前的这些谈判——将让制裁措施遭到瓦解，而且该协议会被伊朗打破。但这些事情并没有发生。
Moreover, Bibi’s message was that there is nothing more important than deterring Iran. O.K. But, if that were my top priority, would I engineer an invitation to speak to Congress by leveraging only the Republican Party and do it without even informing the president, who is running the Iran talks? And would I do it two weeks before Israeli elections, where it looks as though I am using the American Congress as a backdrop for a campaign ad, raising the question of whether my opposition to Iran is partly a political pose? And if I needed the Europeans to be on my side for tighter sanctions, wouldn’t I announce no more settlement-building in the West Bank in areas everyone knows will be part of any negotiated Palestinian state? Such a move would cost Bibi politically with his base, but would certainly increase Israel’s support from Europe.
此外，比比传达的意思是，没有什么比震慑伊朗更重要。好啊。但是，如果我真的把它当成首要任务的话，鉴于总统正掌控着对伊朗的谈判，我会在甚至没有通知他的情况下，仅仅利用共和党来安排这样一次国会演讲吗？我会在以色列选举的两周之前采取这种做法，以至于好像我在把美国国会作为竞选广告的背景，进而引发关于我对伊朗的反对是政治姿态的质疑吗？而如果我需要欧洲人支持我，对伊朗采取更严格的制裁，我为什么不宣布停止在西岸某些地区建设更多定居点呢？人人都知道这些地区将成为谈判建立的巴勒斯坦国的一部分。此举会让比比付出政治上的代价，但无疑会增加欧洲对以色列的支持。