JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said on Sunday that his government was encouraging a “mass immigration” of Jews from Europe, reopening a contentious debate about Israel’s role at a challenging time for European Jews and a month before Israel’s national elections.
耶路撒冷——以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)周日表示，他的政府鼓励欧洲犹太人“大规模移民”到以色列。在这样一个对欧洲犹太人充满挑战的时刻，以色列大选又定于一个月后举行，内塔尼亚胡此举再次引起了关于以色列角色定位的争论。
Speaking the morning after a Jewish guard was fatally shot outside a synagogue in Copenhagen in one of two attacks there, the remarks echoed a similar call by the prime minister inviting France’s Jews to move to Israel after last month’s attacks in Paris. Critics said then that the expression of such sentiments so soon after the Paris shootings was insensitive and divisive. Such sentiments also go to the heart of the complexity of Israel’s identity and its relationship with the Jewish communities of the diaspora, whose support has been vital.
哥本哈根刚发生了两起袭击事件，其中一起导致一座犹太教堂外的一名犹太守卫中枪死亡。内塔尼亚胡在接下来的上午发表了这番言论。上个月巴黎袭击案发生之后，他也曾邀请法国犹太人移居到以色列。当时就有批评者认为，在巴黎枪击案发生后这么快就表达这样的情绪，既不妥当，又带有分裂倾向。以色列的身份及它与国外犹太侨民社区之间的关系很复杂，后者的支持一直对以色列非常重要，而这样的情绪也直指此种复杂关系的中心。
“Jews have been murdered again on European soil only because they were Jews,” Mr. Netanyahu said Sunday in Jerusalem. “Of course, Jews deserve protection in every country, but we say to Jews, to our brothers and sisters: Israel is your home,” he added.
“犹太人再次在欧洲的土壤上遭到杀害，只因为他们是犹太人，”内塔尼亚胡周日在耶路撒冷说。“当然，犹太人应该在每个国家都受到保护，但我们要向犹太人，向我们的兄弟姐妹说：以色列是你们的家。”
But expressing the unease felt by many Jews abroad over such comments, Jair Melchior, Denmark’s chief rabbi, said he was “disappointed” by Mr. Netanyahu’s call.
但是，很多身居国外的犹太人对于这样的言论感到不安。丹麦首席拉比雅伊尔·梅尔基奥尔(Jair Melchior)就表示，他对内塔尼亚胡的呼吁感到“失望”。
“People from Denmark move to Israel because they love Israel, because of Zionism, but not because of terrorism,” Mr. Melchior told The Associated Press on Sunday. “If the way we deal with terror is to run somewhere else, we should all run to a deserted island.”
“丹麦人之所以搬到以色列，是因为他们热爱以色列，是因为支持犹太复国主义，并不是因为恐怖主义，”梅尔基奥尔周日告诉美联社(The Associated Press)记者。“如果我们应对恐怖的办法就是跑到别的地方去，那我们应该全都逃到一座荒岛上。”
In a move that was planned before the attacks in Copenhagen — which left another man dead when a gunman opened fire as a Swedish cartoonist who had caricatured the Prophet Muhammad was speaking at a cafe — Mr. Netanyahu announced Sunday a $45 million government plan to encourage the absorption of immigrants from France, Belgium and Ukraine in 2015. Israel says it has seen a significant increase in the number of people interested in emigrating from these countries.
哥本哈根袭击案还导致了另一名男子死亡。当时一名曾讽刺先知穆罕默德的瑞典漫画家在咖啡馆里讲话，一名枪手开了枪。内塔尼亚胡周日还宣布了在这两起袭击事件之前制定好的一项政府计划，准备在2015年度投入4500万美元资金（约合2.8亿元人民币），以鼓励吸纳来自法国、比利时和乌克兰的移民。以色列表示，来自这些国家的移民人数在显著增加。
More than 7,000 French Jews migrated to Israel in 2014, double the number from the year before. After the attacks in January in Paris that killed 17 people, including four Jews in a kosher supermarket, Israel was expecting an even larger influx.
2014年，7000多名法国犹太人移居到以色列，是2013年的两倍。今年1月，在巴黎发生的系列袭击事件造成17人死亡，其中有4名犹太人死于一家洁食超市。以色列预计，此事过后从法国流入的移民人数将会进一步增大。
For many Israelis, more Jewish immigration is an ideal embodied in the Hebrew word for it, aliya, which means ascent. The state was built by immigrants; its 1948 Declaration of Independence states that Israel “will be open for Jewish immigration and for the ingathering of the exiles.”
在很多以色列人看来，更多犹太人移居该国是一种理想。他们用希伯来文“aliya”形容这种状况，意为走上坡路。以色列是由移民建立起来的国家，其1948年的独立宣言指出，以色列“将向犹太移民开放，供流亡者聚集”。
But the question of under what conditions goes to the core of Zionism and the essence of the principles on which the state was founded.
但是，在什么条件下开放的问题涉及到犹太复国主义的核心，以及以色列建国原则的根本。
While some present Israel as primarily a refuge established on the ashes of the Holocaust, many Israelis prefer to view Zionism as a more proactive realization of the political vision of the Jewish nation.
虽然在一些人眼中，以色列国主要是一个建立在大屠杀灰烬上的避难所，但很多以色列人喜欢把犹太复国主义视为对犹太国家政治愿景的一种更为主动的实现。
Shlomo Avineri, an Israeli professor of political science, described Mr. Netanyahu’s call as “an intellectual and moral mistake” and accused him of taking a populist stance for electoral purposes.
以色列政治学教授什洛莫·阿维内里(Shlomo Avineri)称内塔尼亚胡的号召存在“智识和道德上的错误”，并指责他为了吸引选民而采纳民粹主义立场。
“The legitimacy of Israel does not hinge on anti-Semitism,” said Professor Avineri, the author of a recent book, “Herzl’s Vision,” a biography of Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism. “It hinges on the right of the Jewish people to self-determination in the Jewish state.”
“以色列的合法性并不取决于反犹主义，”阿维内里教授说，“而是取决于犹太人对于犹太国家的自决权。”阿维内里的新书名为《赫茨尔的愿景》(Herzl’s Vision)，是现代犹太复国主义创始人西奥多·赫茨尔(Theodor Herzl)的传记。
While Israel should always be open to immigration, he said, the suggestion that Israel is the only place where Jews can live safely “puts Netanyahu, and in a way Israel, on a collision course with leaders of the democratic countries and also with the leaders of the Jewish communities.”
虽然以色列应该永远向移民开放，他说，但暗示以色列是犹太人可以安全生活的惟一地方，“让内塔尼亚胡，也在某种程度上使得以色列，和民主国家的领导人及犹太社区的头领站在了冲突的立场上。”
Apparently piqued by Mr. Netanyahu’s remarks in January, President François Hollande of France pledged during a speech at a Paris Holocaust memorial to protect all of its citizens, and told French Jews: “Your place is here, in your home. France is your country.”
内塔尼亚胡1月发表的言论显然冒犯了法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)。在巴黎的一处大屠杀纪念馆进行演讲时，奥朗德承诺要表示保护所有公民，并告诉法国犹太人：“你的位置是在这里，在你的家里。法国就是你的国家。”
On Sunday, the Danish prime minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, visited the Copenhagen synagogue where the attack took place and said, “The Jewish community is a large and integrated part of Danish society.”
周日，丹麦首相赫勒·托宁-施密特(Helle Thorning-Schmidt)前往哥本哈根发生袭击案的那座犹太教堂，并表示：“犹太群体是丹麦社会的一大组成部分。”
For some Israeli experts, though, Mr. Netanyahu’s call was a natural expression of the nation’s ethos.
但是在一些以色列专家看来，内塔尼亚胡的呼吁是民族大义的自然表露。
“The raison d’être of Israel is to create a place where Jews can have a better quality of Jewish life,” said Avinoam Bar-Yosef, president of the Jewish People Policy Institute, a research center in Jerusalem.
“以色列存在的理由，就是提供一个地方，让犹太人可以更好地过犹太式生活，”阿维罗·巴尔-优素福(Avinoam Bar-Yosef)说。他在耶路撒冷的研究机构犹太人政策研究所(Jewish People Policy Institute)担任所长。
“In my view, Netanyahu is encouraging those who in any event intend to leave their countries of origin to move to Israel and not to other places,” Mr. Bar-Yosef said, adding, “Even if it is controversial, this is something that a prime minister of Israel needs to do.”
“在我看来，内塔尼亚胡鼓励的对象，是那些本来就打算离开原籍国、迁居以色列的人，而他们并不想前往其他地方，”巴尔-优素福说。“即使存在争议，这也是以色列总理的分内之事。”
Yigal Palmor, the spokesman for the Jewish Agency for Israel, which coordinates migration to Israel, agreed, saying, “The general perception is that when Jews come under attack, it is the prime minister’s job to remind them that Israel offers them shelter.”
以色列犹太建国会(Jewish Agency for Israel)是负责协调移民到以色列的机构，其发言人伊加·帕尔默(Yigal Palmor)赞成这个看法。他说，“一般而言，当犹太人受到攻击时，总理就有义务提醒他们，以色列能为他们提供庇护所。”
“The rest,” said Mr. Palmor, a former Israeli diplomat, “is a matter of tone and emphasis.”
“剩下的无非是语气和重点的问题，”曾担任以色列外交官的帕尔默说。
Mr. Netanyahu has again weighed in on the subject at a fraught time, when Israel’s relations with the White House are strained over his address to a joint meeting of Congress on Iran’s nuclear program next month, two weeks before Israeli elections on March 17.
下个月，在3月17日以色列大选的两周之前，内塔尼亚胡将在美国国会参众两院的联合会议上发表关于伊朗核计划的演讲。此事本已导致以色列与白宫之间关系紧张。周日的讲话是他又一次在一个敏感时刻在移居问题上做文章。