Well, it’s pretty clear now: Benjamin Netanyahu is going to be a major figure in Israeli history — not because he’s heading to become the longest-serving Israeli prime minister, but because he’s heading to be the most impactful. Having won the Israeli elections — in part by declaring that he will never permit a two state-solution between Israelis and Palestinians — it means Netanyahu will be the father of the one-state solution. And the one-state solution means that Israel will become, in time, either a non-Jewish democracy or Jewish non-democracy.
好了，事情现在很清楚：本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)将成为以色列历史上的一个重要人物——不是因为他有望成为任职时间最长的以色列总理，而是因为他即将成为影响力最大的总理。赢得以色列大选——部分是因为他宣布决不会认可以色列和巴勒斯坦之间的两国方案——意味着内塔尼亚胡将成为一国方案之父。而一国方案则意味着，以色列最终要么变成一个非犹太民主国家，要么变成一个犹太非民主国家。
Yes, sir, Bibi is going to make history. And the leader in the world who is most happy that Netanyahu ran on — and won on — a one-state solution is the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Oh, my goodness. They must have been doing high-fives and “Allahu akbars” all night in the ruling circles of Tehran when they saw how low Bibi sank to win. What better way to isolate Israel globally and deflect attention from Iran’s behavior?
是的，比比（Bibi，内塔尼亚胡的昵称——译注）即将创造历史。而对内塔尼亚胡利用一国方案来参选——并获胜——最为高兴的世界领导人，就是伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)。噢，我的天。当德黑兰统治集团看到比比为了获胜如此沉沦时，他们肯定整晚都在击掌庆祝，呼喊着“真主至大”。还有什么办法能更好地在国际社会上孤立以色列，转移人们对伊朗行为的注意？
The biggest losers in all of this, besides all the Israelis who did not vote for Netanyahu, are American Jews and non-Jews who support Israel. What Bibi did to win this election was move the Likud Party from a center-right party to a far-right one. The additional votes he got were all grabbed from the other far-right parties — not from the center. When the official government of Israel is a far-right party that rejects a two-state solution and employs anti-Arab dog whistles to get elected, it will split the basic unity of the American Jewish community on Israel. How many American Jews want to defend a one-state solution in Washington or on their college campuses? Is Aipac, the Israel lobby, now going to push for a one-state solution on Capitol Hill? How many Democrats and Republicans would endorse that?
除了所有没给内塔尼亚胡投票的以色列人之外，这一切最大的输家就是支持以色列的美国犹太人和非犹太人。比比为了赢得这场选举所做的就是把利库德党(Likud Party)从一个中间偏右的政党变成了一个极右派政党。他获得的额外选票都是从其他极右派政党，而不是中间派那里抢来的。当以色列官方政府是个拒绝两国方案，使用反阿拉伯暗语来当选的极右派政党时，美国犹太社区在以色列问题上达成的基本共识就会产生裂痕。有多少美国犹太人想在华盛顿或他们的大学校园里捍卫一国方案？以色列在美国的游说集团美国以色列公共事务委员会(Aipac)现在是否会去国会山(Capitol Hill)宣传一国方案？又有多少民主党人和共和党人会为其背书？
Warning: Real trouble ahead.
警告：真正的麻烦还在后面。
You cannot win that dirty and just walk away like nothing happened. In the days before Israelis went to the polls, Netanyahu was asked by the Israeli news site, NRG, if it was true that a Palestinian state would never be formed on his watch as prime minister, Netanyahu replied, “Indeed,” adding: “Anyone who is going to establish a Palestinian state, anyone who is going to evacuate territories today, is simply giving a base for attacks to the radical Islam against Israel.”
你不能以如此卑鄙的手段取胜，然后像什么事都没发生过那样一走了之。在以色列人开始投票前的几天里，以色列新闻网站NRG曾询问内塔尼亚胡，问他是不是只要他是总理，巴勒斯坦就不可能建国。内塔尼亚胡回答道，“确实如此，”他还补充说：“今天不管谁打算建立一个巴勒斯坦国，让人们从一些地区撤离出去，都是在为反对以色列国的激进伊斯兰提供攻击理由。”
This makes null and void his speech in June 2009 at Bar Ilan University, where Netanyahu had laid out a different “vision of peace,” saying: “In this small land of ours, two peoples live freely, side by side, in amity and mutual respect. Each will have its own flag, its own national anthem, its own government. Neither will threaten the security or survival of the other.” Provided the Palestinian state recognizes Israel’s Jewish character and accepts demilitarization, he added, “We will be ready in a future peace agreement to reach a solution where a demilitarized Palestinian state exists alongside the Jewish state.”
这种说法违背了2009年6月他在巴伊兰大学(Bar Ilan University)的一次讲话，当时他提出了一个不同的“和平愿景”，说：“在我们的这片小小的土地上，两族人民将肩并肩自由生活，关系和睦，互相尊重。每个民族将拥有自己的旗帜、自己的国歌、自己的政府。不威胁对方的安全和生存。”他还表示，只要巴勒斯坦国承认以色列的犹太特征并接受非军事化，“我们就准备在未来签订和平协议，拟定非军事化的巴勒斯坦国与犹太国并存的解决方案。”
Now, if there are not going to be two states for two peoples in the area between the Jordan River and Mediterranean, then there is going to be only one state — and that one state will either be a Jewish democracy that systematically denies the voting rights of about one-third of its people or it will be a democracy and systematically erodes the Jewish character of Israel.
如今，如果约旦河和地中海之间的地区没有为两个民族建立的两个国家，那么就会只有一个国家——这个国家要么是一个有组织地拒绝赋予大约三分之一人口投票权的犹太民主国家，要么就是一个有组织地侵蚀以色列犹太特征的民主国家。
Just look at the numbers: In 2014, the estimated Palestinian Arab population of the West Bank was 2.72 million, with roughly 40 percent under the age of 14. There are already 1.7 million Israeli Arabs citizens — who assembled all their parties together in the latest election onto one list and came in third. Together, the West Bankers and Israeli Arabs constitute 4.4 million people. There are 6.2 million Israeli Jews. According to statistics from the Jewish Virtual Library, the Jewish population of Israel grew by 1.7 percent over the past year, and the Arab population grew by 2.2 percent.
看看这些数据：2014年，约旦河西岸的巴勒斯坦阿拉伯人约有272万人，其中大约40%不足14岁。以色列的阿拉伯人达到170万，他们在最新的选举中用所有政党组成联盟参选，最终成为第三大党。约旦河西岸的民众和以色列的阿拉伯人加起来共有440万人。以色列的犹太人为620万。犹太虚拟图书馆(Jewish Virtual Library)提供的数据显示，以色列的犹太人口在过去一年中增加了1.7%，阿拉伯人口增加了2.2%。
If there is only one state, Israel cannot be Jewish and permit West Bank Palestinians to exercise any voting rights alongside Israeli Arabs. But if Israel is one state and wants to be democratic, how does it continue depriving West Bankers of the vote — when you can be sure they will make it their No. 1 demand.
如果只有一个国家，以色列不能是一个犹太国家，不会允许西岸的巴勒斯坦人和以色列的阿拉伯人一起行使投票权。但既然以色列是一个国家，而且想要成为民主国家，它怎么能继续剥夺西岸人民的投票权——你很清楚他们会把投票权作为第一需求。
I doubt, in the heat of the campaign, Netanyahu gave any of this much thought when he tossed the two-state solution out the window of his campaign bus in a successful 11th-hour grab for far-right voters. To be sure, he could disavow his two-state disavowal tomorrow. It would not surprise me. He is that cynical. But, if he doesn’t — if the official platform of his new government is that there is no more two-state solution — it will produce both a hostile global reaction and, in time, a Palestinian move in the West Bank for voting rights in Israel, combined with an attempt to put Israel in the docket in the International Criminal Court. How far is the Obama administration going to go in defending Israel after it officially rejects a two-state solution? I don’t know. But we’ll be in a new world.
内塔尼亚胡在竞选最激烈的时候放弃两国方案立场，在第11小时成功获得极右翼选民支持，我怀疑这些都是他不假思索做出的决定。当然，他可能明天就会否认自己拒绝接受两国方案。我不会对此感到吃惊。他就是这么一个不择手段的人。但如果他不改变态度——如果他领导的新政府提出的官方施政纲领是不再坚持两国方案，这将会招致全球的反对，迟早会促使西岸的巴勒斯坦人争取获得以色列的投票权，并努力将以色列提交给国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)审理。在以色列正式拒绝接受两国方案后，奥巴马政府能在多大程度上为以色列辩解？我不知道。但我们将会进入一个新世界。
No one on the planet will enjoy watching Israel and America caught on the horns of this dilemma more than the clerical regime in Tehran. It is a godsend for them. Iran’s unstated position is that the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and East Jerusalem must be perpetuated forever. Because few things serve Iran’s interests more than having radical Jewish settlers in a never-ending grinding conflict with Palestinians — and the more bloodshed and squashing of any two-state diplomatic options the better. Because, in that conflict, the Palestinians are almost always depicted as the underdogs and the Israelis as the bullies trying to deprive them of basic rights.
这世上最乐意看到以色列和美国陷入这个两难境地的，就是德黑兰的宗教政权了。对于他们来说，这是天赐良机。伊朗的态度是心照不宣的——以色列对约旦西岸和东耶路撒冷的占领必须永久保持下去。因为伊朗希望激进的犹太定居者永远处于和巴勒斯坦人的痛苦冲突中，他们巴不得看到流血，看到一切两国外交方案都被粉碎，只有这样才符合伊朗的利益。因为在这场冲突中，巴勒斯坦人几乎总是被描述为受压迫者，而以色列人则被描述为试图剥夺巴勒斯坦人基本权利的恶霸。
From Iran’s point of view, it makes fantastic TV on Al Jazeera, and all the European networks; it undermines Israel’s legitimacy with the young generation on college campuses around the globe; and it keeps the whole world much more focused on Israeli civil rights abuses against Palestinians rather than the massive civil rights abuses perpetrated by the Iranian regime against its own people.
在伊朗看来，这为半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)和所有欧洲电视网提供了非常棒的电视节目素材；在世界各地大学校园里的年轻一代心目中，这会破坏以色列的合法性；这让整个世界更关注以色列侵犯巴勒斯坦人公民权利的行为，而不是关注伊朗政权大规模侵犯本国民众公民权利的情况。
It is stunning how much Bibi’s actions serve Tehran’s strategic interests.
你想象不到，比比的行动有多么符合德黑兰的战略利益。