TOKYO — Emperor Akihito attended a ceremony at a martial arts arena on Thursday to mark the anniversary of Japan’s defeat in World War II, while cabinet ministers paid private visits to a Tokyo war shrine that angered China, a former victim of Japanese wartime aggression.
东京——在周四的二战战败纪念日上，日本明仁天皇(Emperor Akihito)出席了在一个武术场举行的仪式，而内阁大臣们则以私人名义参拜了东京一座神社，参拜活动惹怒了日本侵略战争的受害国中国。
Japan's hawkish new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, did not visit the shrine, called Yasukuni, after days of refusing to say clearly whether he would go or not. Instead, Mr. Abe dispatched an aide to make a ritual offering in his name, in an apparent effort to appeal to his supporters on the nationalistic right without provoking China and other Asian nations.
日本的鹰派新任首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)没有前往靖国神社(Yasukuni)，此前几天他一直拒绝表示自己是否会去参拜。作为替代，安倍晋三派了一名助手以他的名义送了祭品，这显然是为了取悦他的民族主义右翼派的支持者，同时避免惹怒中国和其他亚洲国家。
The Japanese government’s top spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, described the prime minister's offering as a personal, not official, gesture. Separately on Thursday, three cabinet members also paid what they called private visits to the shrine wearing formal black suits.
日本政府高级发言人内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)称，首相送祭品是个人姿态，不代表官方。另外，3名内阁大臣周四穿着正式的黑色礼服分别参拜了靖国神社，他们称参拜为私人访问。
However, Mr. Abe’s compromise move failed to mollify China, which summoned the Japanese ambassador to “express strong protest and stern condemnation” over the cabinet members’ visits, according to Hong Lei, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry. Mr. Hong called the shrine visits a “brazen challenge to historical justice.”
但是，安倍晋三的折中举动未能平息中国的愤怒，中国外交部发言人洪磊表示，中国已经召见了日本大使，对日本内阁成员参拜靖国神社“表示强烈抗议和严厉谴责”。洪磊称参拜靖国神社“是对历史正义的公然挑战”。
Japan’s ties with China, as well as with South Korea, which Japan colonized in the early 20th century, have recently frayed because of emotional disputes over history and territory. Many Koreans and Chinese have viewed shows of respect to Yasukuni, a shrine of Japan’s native Shinto religion that honors the nation’s war dead, including executed war criminals, as signs that Japan remains unrepentant for its imperialist past.
最近，日本与中国、以及与被其在20世纪初殖民化的韩国之间的关系，因有关历史和领土的情绪激烈的争议而变得紧张。很多韩国人和中国人都把对靖国神社表达敬意看作是日本对其帝国主义的过去没有悔悟的表现，靖国神社是日本本地神道教(Shinto)庙宇，里面供奉着日本的战殁者亡灵，包括被处决的战犯。
Japan’s official ceremony to mark the end of the war 68 years ago was held across the street from Yasukuni at the Budokan martial arts arena, where Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko observed a minute of silence before a crowd of about 6,000 people, including family members of fallen Japanese sailors and soldiers. No Japanese emperor has visited Yasukuni since the mid-1970s, when then-Emperor Hirohito objected to the decision to enshrine the souls of top war criminals, according to documents made public in the mid-2000s.
日本纪念二战结束68周年的活动在名为武道馆的武术场举行，武道馆与靖国神社隔街相对，明仁天皇和美智子皇后(Empress Michiko)带领约6000人默哀一分钟，参加活动的人中有战死的日本水手和士兵的家属。自20世纪70年代中期以来，日本天皇就一直没有参拜过靖国神社，因为据本世纪头十年中期公布的资料显示，当时的裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)反对供奉顶级战犯亡灵的决定。
Despite its peaceful wooded grounds, the shrine in central Tokyo has been a rallying point for Japanese nationalists unhappy with the historical view of Japan as aggressor that they say was imposed by the postwar Tokyo war crimes trials. A war museum on Yasukuni's premises casts Japan instead as the liberator of Asia from Western imperialism, a portrayal that has drawn protests from Asian neighbors and also the American Embassy.
尽管林荫下的靖国神社看上去十分安静，但这座位于东京中心地带的庙宇一直是日本民族主义者的聚集地，这些人不满把日本当作侵略者的历史观点，他们称这种观点是战后对日本战争罪行进行审判时强加给日本的。反之，一个靖国神社内的战争展览把日本描述为让亚洲摆脱西方帝国主义统治的解放者，这种描述引起亚洲邻国以及美国大使馆的抗议。
In a televised speech Thursday in Seoul to mark the end of the war and of Japanese colonial rule, South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, warned that it would be difficult “to build trust for the future if Japan doesn’t have the courage to face history” and consider “the pain of others.”
韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)周四在首尔发表了电视讲话，纪念二战以及日本殖民统治的结束，她警告说，“如果日本没有勇气面对历史”、不考虑“其他国家的痛苦”，将难以“为未来建立信任”。
While Mr. Abe and senior members of his government appeared to keep their distance from Yasukuni on Thursday, the visits by the three lower-ranking ministers received intense media attention. Other lawmakers from the conservative governing party, the Liberal Democrats, also visited the shrine.
虽然安倍晋三及其内阁的高级长官在周四与靖国神社保持了距离，但是3名级别较低的内阁大臣的参拜活动受到了媒体的高度关注。保守的执政党自由民主党(Liberal Democrats)的一些其他议员也参拜了神社。
Instead, Mr. Abe laid flowers at Japan’s grave for its unknown soldiers, and attended the official ceremony at the Budokan. However, his speech there drew attention for failing to express remorse for the suffering that Japan inflicted on other Asian nations during the war, something that previous prime ministers have included in their anniversary speeches for the past two decades.
安倍没有参拜神社，而是前往日本的阵亡无名士兵墓献了鲜花，并参加了在武道馆举行的官方仪式。但是，他在官方仪式上的讲话引起了人们的关注，因为他没有对日本在战争期间给其他亚洲国家带来的痛苦表示忏悔，而在过去20年中每位前任首相在纪念日的讲话中都有这种语言。
Mr. Abe’s balancing act highlights his struggle since taking office in December to juggle two conflicting political goals: a deeply felt personal desire to revise what his supporters call an overly negative postwar portrayal of his nation’s conduct during the war, and a more forward-looking effort to raise Japan’s diplomatic and political profile in the Asian region to help its biggest ally, the United States, offset China’s growing strength.
安倍左右平衡的做法突显了他面对的难题，自从去年12月上台以来，他需要协调两个相互矛盾的政治目标：一个是他个人的强烈愿望，他希望改变其支持者所称的战后对日本在战争期间行为的过于负面的描述；另一个则是更前瞻性的努力，他想在亚洲地区提升日本的外交和政治影响力，从而帮助日本最大的盟国美国，来平衡中国不断增长的力量。
In particular, attention had been focused on whether Mr. Abe, a vocal nationalist, would visit Yasukuni, as he had promised his political base in the party’s far right before becoming prime minister. On Thursday, the offering of an envelope full of cash signed by Mr. Abe was delivered by the aide, Koichi Hagyuda, who said that Mr. Abe regretted not being able to come, a secretary for Mr. Hagyuda said.
人们一直特别关注安倍是否会去参拜靖国神社。安倍是一个直言不讳的民族主义者，在担任首相之前，他曾向自己党内最右翼的政治基础许诺会去参拜。周四，安倍晋三让助手萩生田光一(Koichi Hagyuda)送去了一个装满现金的信封，信封上有安倍晋三的签名，该助手的一位秘书称，萩生田光一说安倍对不能参拜表示遗憾。
Since taking office, Mr. Abe has largely avoided touching on sensitive historical issues, with the exception of another offering he made to Yasukuni in April. Mr. Abe’s supporters say he is responding at least in part to pressure from American officials, who fear that historical issues may isolate Japan, the United States’s largest Asian ally, and raise tensions in the region at a time when the Americans have their hands full facing China and a nuclear North Korea.
安倍晋三自上台以来在很大程度上避免了触及敏感的历史问题，除了在4月份给靖国神社送过一次祭品外。安倍晋三的支持者说，这至少部分地因为他屈于美国官员的压力，美国官员担心历史问题可能会孤立日本，并在亚洲地区制造紧张局势，日本是美国在亚洲的最大盟友，而美国已经在该地区为应对中国和拥有核武器的朝鲜而忙得不可开交。