TRIPOLI, Libya — “The fire is inside the airport!” a militiaman cried, as he fired an antiaircraft cannon on the back of a pickup truck toward the runway of Libya’s main international airport. “God is great, the flames are rising!”
利比亚的黎波里——“机场里头烧起来了！”一个民兵大喊。他正从一辆皮卡车后厢朝利比亚主要的国际机场的跑道发射防空炮。“真主至大，火焰升腾！”
“Intensify the shooting,” responded his commander, Salah Badi, an ultraconservative Islamist and former lawmaker from the coastal city of Misurata.
“加强火力，”他的指挥官萨拉赫·巴迪(Salah Badi)回复说。巴迪是极端保守的伊斯兰主义者，曾是来自滨海城市米苏拉塔的一名议员。
Captured on video by the proud attackers just one month ago, Mr. Badi’s assault on Libya’s main international airport has now drawn the country’s fractious militias, tribes and towns into a single national conflagration that threatens to become a prolonged civil war. Both sides see the fight as part of a larger regional struggle, fraught with the risks of a return to repressive authoritarianism or a slide toward Islamist extremism. Three years after the NATO-backed ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the violence threatens to turn Libya into a pocket of chaos destabilizing North Africa for years to come.
就在一个月前，巴迪袭击利比亚主要国际机场的这一幕被自豪的同伙用视频记录了下来。现在，这次袭击将利比亚不受控制的各大民兵组织、部落和城镇拖入了一场全国性的大动荡，并有可能演化为旷日持久的内战。双方都将这场争斗视为更大范围内的地区性斗争的一部分，其中风险重重，既有可能让该国重返具有压迫性的威权统治，也有可能使其滑向伊斯兰派极端主义。距离利比亚人在北约的支持下推翻穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)的统治已有三年，而今暴力有可能将利比亚拖入混乱不堪的境地，进而让北非地区陷入多年的动荡之中。
Libya is already a haven for itinerant militants, and the conflict has now opened new opportunities for Ansar al-Shariah, the hard-line Islamist group involved in the assault on the American diplomatic Mission in Benghazi in 2012.
利比亚本已是四处游荡的激进分子的温床，而这场冲突现在为强硬的伊斯兰派团体“伊斯兰教法虔信者”(Ansar al-Shariah)开辟了新的机遇。2012年美国驻班加西使团遇袭一事的肇事者中，就有“伊斯兰教法虔信者”。
Those backing Mr. Badi say his attack was a pre-emptive blow against an imminent counterrevolution modeled on the military takeover in Egypt and backed by its conservative allies: Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
巴迪的支持者宣称，他攻击机场是先发制人之举，打击的是迫在眉睫的反革命活动。在他们口中，反革命分子以埃及军方接管国家为榜样，并受到保守派盟友沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国的支持。
Their opponents, including the militias stocked with former Qaddafi soldiers that controlled the airport, say Mr. Badi was merely the spearhead of a hard-line Islamist onslaught resembling the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and supported by the Islamist-friendly governments of Turkey and Qatar.
他们的敌对方包括控制着机场的民兵组织，其中集结了大量曾经忠于卡扎菲的士兵。他们宣称，巴迪不过是在为强硬伊斯兰派打头阵，而这帮人无异于“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)，并受到土耳其和卡塔尔的亲伊斯兰派政府的支持。
The ideological differences are blurry at best: both sides publicly profess a similar conservative but democratic vision. What is clear is that Libya is being torn apart by an escalating war among its patchwork of rival cities and tribes.
双方的意识形态分野即使存在，也是模糊不清：它们均公开亮出了保守却民主的类似政治愿景。清晰无误的是，利比亚正因这场各大敌对城镇和部落间不断升级的战争而分崩离析。
Expressions of Despair
绝望
In a broad series of interviews on a five-day trip across the chasm now dividing the country — from the mountain town of Zintan, through Tripoli to the coastal city of Misurata — many Libyans despaired of any resolution.
记者沿着现今将国家一分为二的鸿沟地带——从山区城市津坦到的黎波里，再到滨海城市米苏拉塔——行走了五天，沿途进行了广泛采访。许多利比亚人对难题的解决深感绝望。
“We entered this tunnel and we can’t find our way out,” said Ibrahim Omar, a Zintani leader.
“我们进了这条隧道，却找不到出路，”津坦的一名领导人易卜拉欣·奥马尔(Ibrahim Omar)说。
Towns and tribes across the country are choosing sides, in places flying the flags of rival factions, sometimes including the black banners of Islamist extremists.
利比亚各大城镇和部落在选边站队，许多地方同时飞扬着敌对派系的旗帜，有时还打着伊斯兰主义极端分子的黑旗。
Tripoli, the capital and the main prize, has become a battleground. The fighting has destroyed the airport, and on Saturday night Mr. Badi’s allies finally captured the remaining rubble, at least for the moment. Constant shelling between rival militias has leveled blocks, emptied neighborhoods and killed hundreds of people. Storage tanks holding about 25 million gallons of fuel have burned unchecked for a month. Jagged black clouds shadow the city, with daily blackouts sometimes lasting more than 12 hours.
作为最大战利品的首都的黎波里如今已成为一座战场。交火摧毁了机场，到了上周六夜间，巴迪的盟友终于占领了残存的机场废墟，至少暂时如此。敌对的民兵组织频频向对方开炮，将成片的街区夷为平地，导致居民区内空无一人，成百上千人丧生。储存了约2500万加仑燃料的储油罐燃烧了一个月之久，无人理睬。一道道黑烟形成的乌云笼罩着城市，这里每天都会停电，有时会持续12个小时以上。
Motorists wait in lines stretching more than three miles at shuttered gas stations, waiting for them to open. Food prices are soaring, uncollected garbage is piling up in the streets and bicycles, once unheard-of, are increasingly common.
驾车者在停业的加油站外排出逾3英里（约合4.8公里）的长队，等待它们开门。食品价格飙升，无人收走的垃圾在街头堆积，曾经闻所未闻的自行车如今越来越常见。
In Benghazi, Libya’s second-largest city, the fighting has closed both its airport and seaport, strangling the city.
在利比亚第二大城市班加西，机场和海港均因战事关闭，让这座城市遭受重创。
In an alarming turn for the West, the rush toward war is also lifting the fortunes of the Islamist extremists of Ansar al-Shariah, the Benghazi militant group. It has gained ground because other militias and factions are building new alliances with its fighters against common enemies.
令西方警惕的变化是，利比亚朝着战争的冲刺也让班加西激进团体伊斯兰教法虔信者的极端分子交上了好运。由于其他民兵组织与派别在与之组建针对共同敌人的新联盟，伊斯兰教法虔信者变得抢手起来。
The United Nations, the United States and the other Western powers have withdrawn their diplomats and closed their missions. “We cannot care more than you do,” the British ambassador, Michael Aron, wrote in a Twitter message to a Libyan pleading for international help. (The United Nations is sending a special envoy, Bernardino León, to try to arrange a truce.)
联合国，以及美国等西方大国已撤离外交人员并关闭使团驻地。“我们没法比你们更在意，”英国大使迈克尔·阿伦(Michael Aron)在Twitter上回应一名请求国际援助的利比亚人时这样写道。（联合国将派遣特使贝纳迪诺·莱昂[Bernardino León]来尝试安排停火。）
Even the first years after Colonel Qaddafi’s ouster were better, said Hisham Krekshi, a former Tripoli councilman, savoring a few hours of uninterrupted electricity in the upscale cafe that he owns, its tables and the street deserted. “This is a war, and a lot of innocent people are dying.”
前的黎波里市议员希沙姆·克列克什(Hisham Krekshi)表示，就连卡扎菲刚倒台后的日子，也比现在强。他享受着自家高档餐吧连续几个小时的电力，端详着屋里的空荡餐桌和空无一人的街道。“这是场战争，很多无辜民众在死去。”
Until now, a rough balance of power among local brigades had preserved a kind of equilibrium, if not stability. Although the transitional government scarcely existed outside of the luxury hotels where its officials gathered, no other force was strong enough to dominate. No single interest divided the competing cities and factions.
在此之前，各地方武装之间保持了某种大致的权力均衡，就算谈不上稳定。尽管过渡政府的政令几乎不出官员们身处的豪华酒店，但也没有其他势力强大到足以一统全国的地步，也没有任何一项利益可以将这些相互争斗的城镇和派别区分开来。
But that semblance of unity is now in tatters, and with it the hope that nonviolent negotiations might settle the competition for power and, implicitly, Libya’s oil.
不过，这种表面的团结现今已灰飞烟灭。同样破灭的还有通过非暴力谈判来解决争斗的希望。这种争斗既涉及权力，也隐含着对利比亚的石油的追求。
In May, a renegade former general, Khalifa Hifter, declared that he would seize power by force to purge Libya of Islamists, beginning in Benghazi. He vowed to eradicate the hard-line Islamists of Ansar al-Shariah, blamed for a long series of bombings and assassinations.
今年5月，举起反叛大旗的前将领哈利法·哈福特(Khalifa Hifter)宣布将武力夺权，从班加西开始清除利比亚的伊斯兰派。他发誓，要将伊斯兰教法虔信者的那些强硬派斩草除根。后者被指责要为一长串的炸弹袭击和刺杀事件负责。
Borrowing lines from President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, General Hifter also pledged to close the Parliament and arrest moderate Islamist members. And he has mustered a small fleet of helicopters and warplanes that have bombed rival bases around Benghazi, a steep escalation of the violence.
哈福特借用了埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi)的语言，同样承诺解散议会并逮捕温和的伊斯兰派成员。他还集结了一小队直升飞机和战斗机，用其轰炸班加西周围的敌方基地。此举让暴力活动急剧升级。
To fight back, moderate Islamists and other brigades who had distanced themselves from Ansar al-Shariah began closing ranks, welcoming the group into a newly formed council of “revolutionary” militias.
为了反击，温和伊斯兰派及其他曾与伊斯兰教法虔信者拉开距离的队伍，正在与之联合起来，并欢迎该团体加入一个新组建的“革命”武装派系的委员会。
“A lot of them have fought well,” Ali Bozakouk, a moderate Islamist lawmaker from Benghazi, said of militants with Ansar al-Shariah, speaking last week after meetings in Misurata. “When you are fighting against an intruder, sometimes you have hard choices. You are brothers in arms now and work out your differences later.”
班加西一名温和伊斯兰派议员阿里·博扎库克(Ali Bozakouk)，上周在米苏拉塔参加会议之后，谈论伊斯兰教法虔信者旗下的武装人员时说：“他们当中很多人都很能打。在对抗进犯的外敌时，有时候要面临艰难的选择。现在要像兄弟一样手挽手，彼此之间的分歧以后再解决。”
Militias Choose Sides
武装派系各自为左右袒
Although the general’s blitz has now stalled, it polarized the country, drawing alarms from some cities and tribes but applause from others. Perhaps the loudest applause came from the western mountain town of Zintan, where local militia leaders had recruited hundreds of former Qaddafi soldiers into special brigades, while also keeping control of the Tripoli airport.
尽管哈福特的猛攻现在已经停顿，但是他的攻势却让全国产生了立场分化，一些市镇和部落警觉不安，另一些则欢欣鼓舞。欢呼声最强烈的地方，或许就是西部的山城津坦。在那里，地方武装的领导人招募了数百名过去卡扎菲麾下的士兵，组成了别动队，而且还控制着的黎波里的机场。
The alarms went off in the rival coastal city of Misurata, where militias have allied with the Islamists in political battles and jostled with the Zintanis for influence in the capital. Since Colonel Qaddafi’s ouster, the Misurata and Islamist militias developed a reputation for besieging government buildings and kidnapping high officials to try to pressure the Parliament. But in recent months the Zintanis and their anti-Islamist allies have stormed the Parliament and kidnapped senior lawmakers as well.
在与之对抗的海滨城市米苏拉塔，人们却警惕了起来。在那里，武装分子与伊斯兰派联合起来投身政治斗争，并与津坦人角逐在首都的影响力。卡扎菲下台以来，米苏拉塔的武装势力和伊斯兰派武装分子为人熟知的做法是，为了向议会施压，而包围政府办公楼、绑架高官。但是近几个月来，津坦的武装势力，及其反伊斯兰派的盟友也曾冲击议会，绑架资深议员。
Adding to the tensions, the newly elected Parliament, led at first, on a seniority basis, by a member supportive of Mr. Hifter, announced plans to convene in Tobruk, an eastern city under the general’s control.
新选举产生的议会，最初依据资历深浅，由一名支持哈福特的议员领导。该名议员宣布，计划在由哈福特控制的东部城市图卜鲁格召开会议。这一计划进一步加深了局势的紧张。
About 30 members, most of them Islamists or Misuratans, refused to attend, dispelling hopes that the new legislature might unify the country. “That is foreign territory to me,” said Mr. Bozakouk, the Benghazi representative, who joined the boycott. (Tripoli’s backup airport, under the control of an Islamist militia, has cut off flights to Tobruk, even blocking a trip by the prime minister.)
大约有30名议员拒绝参会，他们大多属于伊斯兰派或米苏拉塔的势力。这又让新议会或许可以让国家团结起来的希望破灭了。来自班加西的议员博扎库克说，“对我来说那里是外国领土。”他也是拒绝参会的抵制者之一。（的黎波里的后备机场由一支伊斯兰派武装控制，这座机场切断了飞往图卜鲁格的航班，甚至还阻止了总理的一次出行。）
Over the weekend, a spokesman for the old disbanded Parliament, favored by the Islamists and Misuratans, declared that it would reconvene in Tripoli. In Tobruk, a spokesman for the new Parliament declared that the Islamist- and Misuratan-allied militias were terrorists, suggesting that Libya might soon have two legislatures with competing armies.
周末，已解散的旧议会的一名发言人宣布，旧议会将于的黎波里开会。伊斯兰派和米苏拉塔势力均倾向于支持旧议会。在图卜鲁格，新议会的一名发言人宣称，与伊斯兰派和米苏拉塔势力结盟的武装人员是恐怖分子。这显示出，利比亚或许很快就会有两个立法机构，并且有两支相互竞争的军队。
Fighters and tribes who fought one another during the uprising against Colonel Qaddafi are now coming together on the same side of the new fight, especially with the Zintanis against the Islamists. Some former Qaddafi officers who had fled Libya are even coming back to take up arms again.
在推翻卡扎菲的起义中针锋相对的武装组织和部落，现在在新的战斗中正团结到一起，尤其是在津坦势力与伊斯兰派的对抗中。一些曾逃离利比亚的卡扎菲麾下的军人，现在甚至回国重新拿起了武器。
“It is not pro- or anti-Qaddafi any more — it is about Libya,” said a former Qaddafi officer in a military uniform, who had returned from Tunisia. He lounged against the wall of a mountainside guardhouse full of Zintani fighters who were his foes three years ago.
一名从突尼斯回到利比亚，曾在卡扎菲部队效力的军人说，“已经不再是支持或反对卡扎菲的问题，现在重点是利比亚。”他身穿军服，在山上一所满是津坦武装人员的哨所里倚墙站立。三年前，他们还是彼此的敌人。
Beneath the battle against “extremists,” he said, was an even deeper, ethnic struggle: the tribes of Arab descent, like the Zintanis, against those of Berber, Circassian or Turkish ancestry, like the Misuratis. “The victory will be for the Arab tribes,” he said. He declined to provide his real name, insisting all journalists were spies.
在针对“极端势力”的战斗之下，甚至还有更深层次的族群冲突：阿拉伯后裔的部族，如津坦人，在对抗柏柏尔、索卡西亚、突厥后裔的部族，如米苏拉塔人。“阿拉伯系的部族会取得胜利，”他说。这名军人拒绝透露自己的真实姓名，并坚称记者都是间谍。
Those sympathetic to Mr. Badi’s assault on the airport argue that his fight is an extension of the fight against General Hifter’s anti-Islamist coup, arguing without evidence that their opponents were using the Tripoli airport to bring in weapons and equipment from abroad.
对巴迪袭击机场的举动持赞同态度的人表示，他的战斗是为了抵抗哈福特发动的反伊斯兰派的政变。他们表示，哈福特的部队当时在利用的黎波里的机场，从海外输送武器和装备，但并没有拿出证据。
Mr. Badi “wanted to have them for lunch before they had him for dinner,” Mr. Krekshi, the former Tripoli councilman and a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, said. (The Brotherhood has said it takes no side in the armed struggle and seeks only dialogue, but in an interview, the chief of its political office also refused to condemn the airport assault.)
巴迪“想要在晚饭时自己被对方干掉之前，就在午饭时把对方干掉，”前的黎波里市议员，穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)成员克列克什表示。（穆斯林兄弟会称，不在武装冲突中持任何立场，只寻求开展对话。但在一次采访中，其政治办公室的负责人拒绝对机场的袭击表示谴责。）