HORLIVKA, Ukraine — The rebel commander casually led the way down a muddy trench, shoulder high with shaved walls of moist earth, his boots slapping at wooden slabs sunk into the muck. Finally, he reached an earth-covered observation post.
乌克兰戈尔洛夫卡——叛军指挥官漫不经心地沿着泥泞的沟壕往前走，穿过潮湿泥土筑成的齐肩墙壁，靴子踩在陷入淤泥中的木板上。最终，他到达了一个被泥土覆盖的观察站。
“There, you see,” he said, pointing a gnarled index finger, its brown nail twisted after 30 years in the coal mines. A few hundred yards away, across an icy lake and a field, were some scattered office buildings, close enough to count the windowpanes.
他用粗糙的食指指着远处说，“那儿，你看。”在煤矿待了30年后，深褐色的手指甲已经弯曲。在几百码以外，越过一个结冰的湖和一块田地，有一些散乱的办公楼，距离很近，可以数清楼上的窗玻璃。
“There are the Ukrainians,” said the commander, whose real name is Pavel and who asked that his surname not be used, for fear of reprisals. His fighters call him Batya, an endearment for father in Russian and a common nom de guerre for rebel commanders in eastern Ukraine.
这名指挥官说，“待在那里的是乌克兰人。”他的真名为帕维尔(Pavel)，由于担心遭到报复，他要求隐瞒姓氏。他手下的兵称他为巴特亚(Batya)，在俄语中是对爸爸的爱称，在乌克兰东部是叛军指挥官常用的假名。
The smack of artillery fire rose from a village in the valley below, captured just a few days earlier by Batya’s rebels. A nearby crack, a tense pause, then a distant thud somewhere beyond the lake.
炮火声从下面山谷中的村庄传出，巴特亚领导的叛军几天前占领了这片山谷。附近爆出一声巨响，接着是令人紧张的暂停，然后湖对岸的某个地方传来砰砰声。
“Sometimes, at night, they come at us with their tanks,” Batya said. “But we do not let them advance.”
“有时候，他们晚上开着坦克冲我们来，”巴特亚说。“但我们不会允许他们向前推进。”
The mood here on the rebel front lines is upbeat these days. Two weeks ago, pro-Russian rebels captured the airport in Donetsk, kicking off the fiercest round of combat in the region since last fall. Their commanders declared a four-month-old cease-fire defunct and vowed new attacks, which began almost immediately, including one in which a barrage of rockets struck a crowded market in a Black Sea coastal town, Mariupol, that left 31 dead.
目前，叛军前线保持乐观情绪。两周之前，亲俄叛军占领了顿涅茨克的机场，引发了自去年秋季以来该地区最为激烈的一轮战斗。他们的指挥官宣布为期四个月的停火协议失效，发誓要开展新的攻击，并且几乎是立即就开始了，其中包括对黑海沿海小镇马里乌波尔一座拥挤的市场发射大量火箭弹，致使31人死亡。
The top commander, Aleksandr Zakharchenko, said Monday that the rebels would answer Ukraine’s recent announcement that it would conscript more troops by organizing a voluntary mobilization of their own that, he vowed, would increase the size of the rebel army to as many as 100,000.
针对乌克兰近日宣布将征募更多士兵的消息，最高指挥官亚历山大·扎哈尔琴科(Aleksandr Zakharchenko)在周一表示，叛军的对策是组织一次以自愿为前提的动员行动，扎哈尔琴科誓称此举将把叛军队伍扩大至多达10万人的规模。
At the moment, the rebels feel they are within reach of surrounding a contingent of hundreds of Ukrainian troops dug into the town of Debaltseve, a crucial rail hub. “We are on the move and they are trapped,” Batya said.
目前，叛军感觉他们有望包围进入德巴泽维村的那支数百人的乌克兰部队，该村庄是一个关键的铁路枢纽。巴特亚说，“我们在行动中，他们被困住了。”
His fighters are deployed on the edge of the strategic city of Horlivka, not far from the only road still connecting Debaltseve — 23 miles to the east — with Ukrainian-controlled territory to the north. The road has come under regular fire in recent days and is sometimes impassable.
他将作战人员部署在战略要地戈尔洛夫卡的边缘，那里距离连接德巴泽维——以东23英里（约合37公里）处——与北部由乌克兰控制的领土的唯一道路不远。近日，这条道路经常遭到攻击，有时无法通行。
The grand house where Batya and his troops make their headquarters used to belong to a regional prosecutor. But he fled in the face of the separatist advance, so now the rebels are lords of the manor. The soaring, two-story entryway, wrapped in a grand wooden staircase, is now the company canteen, a pot of bubbling stew perfuming the air, boxes of medical supplies stacked in the corner.
被巴特亚及其士兵用作司令部的豪华宅邸原本归一名地区检察官所有。但随着分裂分子的推进，他逃离了住所，因此叛乱分子现在成为了庄园的主人。高挑的两层楼门厅有华美的木楼梯环绕，现在已经变成了他们的食堂，汩汩冒泡的炖汤散发着香味，角落堆着一箱箱的医务给养。
Batya makes his office in a front parlor, chattering on walkie-talkies with his troops while his top fighters smoke cigarettes on a sofa and flick ashes into a shell casing.
巴特亚将办公室设在前起居室，他在通过步话机跟士兵闲聊，他最器重的几个战士则坐在沙发上抽烟，将烟灰弹到一个炮弹壳里。
“This is our famous fighter,” he said, laughing happily and gesturing to a small woman seated beside the window. Her name is Ira, and before the war she was the secretary at a kindergarten in Shakhtarsk, a town several miles to the south. Batya is from the same town, as are most of his fighters — outside of a couple who described themselves as volunteers from Russia.
“这是我们的著名战士，”他指着坐在窗户旁的一个身材娇小的女人大笑着说。她的名字叫伊拉(Ira)，战争爆发前，她在位于向南几英里处的夏克塔斯克镇的一家幼儿园担任秘书。巴特亚像大多数作战人员一样，都来自这个镇，但其中有一对夫妻自称是来自俄罗斯的志愿者。
“She is known as 01,” he said, pronouncing it “zero one,” which is an emergency telephone number, like 911 in America. “She goes into the field to rescue our fighters when they are wounded. Plus she is our best sniper. She can cook for us. She can drive our tank.”
“人们叫她01，”他说。“我们的战士受伤时，她会到战场去救他们。另外，她是最棒的狙击手。她能为我们做饭，还能开坦克。”01是紧急救助电话，就像美国的911一样。
He reached into a corner behind a tattered chair and pulled out a long rifle with a thick scope. “Here is her sniper rifle,” he said.
他走到一把破烂椅子后面的角落里，拿出了一把装有厚瞄准镜的长步枪。他说，“这就是她的狙击步枪。”
Ira sat on the sofa, blushing slightly and rubbing her feet together, clad in fuzzy red slippers.
伊拉坐在沙发上，脸上微微泛红，脚上穿着带绒毛的红色拖鞋，两只脚蹭来蹭去。
She had no sniper training. “I just decided to give it a try,” she said.
她没有接受过狙击训练。她说，“我只是决定试一试。”
Batya barked a few orders into his walkie-talkie, then turned and said, “There will be loud noises soon.” Almost instantly, the company’s tank, parked down the road, barked loudly and the percussion wave rolled up the venetian blinds.
巴特亚通过无线电话厉声下达了几个命令，然后转过身说道，“很快会听到巨大声音。”他的话音刚落，停在路上的坦克便发出巨响，声浪让百叶窗都震了起来。
Batya said his troops had held this position for four months, but were looking forward to moving once the road to Debaltseve is severed. After that, well, that is another question.
巴特亚表示，士兵们占领这里已有四个月的时间，但一旦通往德巴泽维的路被切断，他们将会转移。在那之后，就是另一个问题了。
In August, Russian-backed rebels troops routed Ukrainian forces around the town of Ilovaisk, obliterating entire units of soldiers, leaving about 100 armored vehicles in smoking ruins and reversing the tide of the war. There is talk now of “another Ilovaisk” in Debaltseve.
去年8月，俄罗斯支持的叛军在伊拉瓦易斯科镇附近击退了乌克兰军队，摧毁了整个部队，致使大约100辆装甲车变成一堆冒烟的废墟，扭转了战争局面。现在有一种说法是，德巴泽维是“另一个伊拉瓦伊斯科”。
“We will win, I know that,” Batya said. “We will not accept to live with these Ukrainians any more. But what the world will look like after the fighting, really, I don’t know.”
“我们会获胜，我知道这一点，”巴特亚说。“我们无法再忍受与这些乌克兰人生活在一起了。但至于战争结束后的世界会是什么样，实际上，我不知道。”
The venetian blinds danced a few more times. Coffee was served and Ira traded her fuzzy slippers for leather boots and a fur-lined combat cap. Batya fingered the medals hanging from his battle tunic; one of them is for conspicuous bravery, the highest decoration the rebels bestow.
百叶窗又震动了几次。这里有咖啡，伊拉用自己的毛绒拖鞋换了皮靴和一顶毛皮里的战斗帽。巴特亚摆弄着战服上的勋章；其中一枚是表彰英勇气魄的勋章——叛军授予的最高勋章。
Horlivka is a crucial position for the rebels, both because of its substantial industrial facilities and because of five huge water pipelines that converge here. If Ukraine captures the town, Batya said, it could choke off the entire region’s water supply.
对于叛军来说，戈尔洛夫卡是一个要地，因为这里有大量工业设施，而且是五个大型水管道的汇聚地。巴特亚表示，如果乌克兰占领了该镇，他们可以切断整个地区的水供应。
“Lose Horlivka and we lose the war,” he said. “But we do not lose Horlivka.”
“丢掉戈尔洛夫卡相当于输掉战争，”他说。“但我们没有丢掉戈尔洛夫卡。”
After a brief tour of the front lines, he paused at one of his northernmost emplacements, just to check the temperature of his troops. An elderly woman was arguing angrily with a pair of soldiers who refused to let her through to buy bread, fearing she was a Ukrainian spy.
在对前线进行短暂巡视之后，巴特亚在最北处停了下来，查看部队的士气。一名年长女性正在与两名士兵争吵，士兵们担心她是乌克兰间谍，不允许她穿过这里购买面包。
A few yards away, Ira smiled again shyly, cradling an automatic rifle across her chest. On its nose was a grenade launcher carrying a shell called the frog, because it hits the ground, jumps up and explodes at stomach level.
在几码远的地方，伊拉又一次腼腆地笑着，怀里抱着一把自动步枪。枪的前端有一个枪榴弹发射器，里面装着一颗被称为青蛙的炮弹，这枚炮弹击中地面后会弹起，在腹部高的地方爆炸。