MELBOURNE, Australia — For the third time in the last four years, Li Na is one of the last two women standing at the Australian Open.
澳大利亚墨尔本——四年当中，李娜第三次闯进了澳大利亚网球公开赛(Australian Open)女单决赛。
But she would have left Australia a week ago if her third-round opponent, Lucie Safarova, had not missed a backhand by two inches on match point.
但是，如果第三轮的对手露西·萨法洛娃(Lucie Safarova)没有在赛点以两英寸（约合5厘米）之差错失那记反手击球，李娜一周前就已经离开澳大利亚了。
“I think the five centimeters save my tournament,” Li said after that victory. “If she hit it in, I think, whole team on the way to the airport.”
“我认为那5厘米的距离拯救了我！”李娜赢得比赛后说，“如果她当时打在了线上，我的整个团队应该此时已经在机场了”。
Li’s coach, Carlos Rodriguez, who previously guided Justine Henin to seven Grand Slam titles, called her draw, “tricky, difficult, stressful.” He said Li was unsettled at the start of the tournament by having to play up-and-coming 16-year-olds in her first two matches.
李娜的教练卡洛斯‧罗德里格斯(Carlos Rodriguez)曾指导贾斯汀·海宁(Justine Henin)七次问鼎大满贯(Grand Slam)冠军。罗德里格斯称，李娜抽的签“微妙、困难、令人顿生压力”。他说，在此次锦标赛伊始，李娜很不安，因为她必须在头两场比赛中对阵两名正在崭露头角的16岁选手。
“She didn’t know them, and that put her in a very difficult emotional situation, especially to play the third match,” Rodriguez said. “It was very difficult to handle, first, because Safarova played a great match, and second, she was a little bit unstable. And after that match, it’s like all the parts are coming together.”
“她不了解她们，由此陷入了一种非常困难的情绪状态，尤其是在第三场比赛之前，”罗德里格斯说，“这种情况很难应对，首先是因为萨法洛娃的比赛打得很好，其次是因为她有些不稳定。那场比赛后，好像一切都顺利起来了。”
The next three victories were impressively routine for Li, who has struggled with consistency for much of her career. She lost only two games to 22nd-seeded Ekaterina Makarova of Russia in the fourth round and only four to 28th-seeded Flavia Pennetta of Italy in the quarterfinals. Then she won 20 of the first 23 points against 30th-seeded Eugenie Bouchard of Canada in the semifinals before hanging on for a 6-2, 6-4 victory.
对于职业生涯中相当一部分时间都在努力保持稳定的李娜而言，接下来的三场胜利来得惊人地轻松。在第四轮比赛中，她只输给了来自俄罗斯的22号种子叶卡捷琳娜·马卡洛娃(Ekaterina Makarova)两局。在四分之一决赛中，她只输给了来自意大利的28号种子弗拉维娅·佩内塔(Flavia Pennetta)四局。随后，在对阵来自加拿大的30号种子尤金·布莎尔(Eugenie Bouchard)时，李娜先是得了前23分中的20分，最终以6-2、6-4的比分赢得了这场半决赛。
Unlike in her three previous Grand Slam finals, including the one she won at the 2011 French Open, fourth-seeded Li will enter Saturday’s match against 20th-seeded Dominika Cibulkova as the clear favorite.
不同于之前的三次大满贯决赛，其中包括她2011年在法国网球公开赛中问鼎冠军的那场比赛，4号种子李娜是以夺冠大热门的身份进入了周六的决赛，对手是20号种子多米妮卡·齐布科娃(Dominika Cibulkova)。
“That is the difficult thing for her,” Rodriguez said of her new status. “You are not the outsider anymore, you are No. 4. And on paper, you are the favorite. How to handle that, and how to get the best of yourself on Saturday, it’s new for us. Because in all the finals that she played before, she wasn’t the favorite. It’s going to be another approach, and another psychological position.
“对她来说，这是件难事，”罗德里格斯在说起她这种新地位时说，“你不再是局外人了，你是排名第四的选手，名义上还是夺冠热门。如何应对这一点，如何在周六呈现出最好的状态，这对我们来说都是新的挑战。因为在之前的所有决赛中，她都不是夺冠热门。这需要新的应对方式和新的心态。
“Don’t think about winning the Grand Slam. You know that you’re out there to win. Put it on the side, and focus on what you want to do on court in order to try to achieve your goals. It’s the most difficult to do because it’s like, ‘I’m the favorite! I can do it now!’ But at the end of the day, it’s 50-50.”
“不要想着赢得大满贯。你知道自己想赢。把它放在一边，集中精力考虑自己在球场上应该怎么做才能实现目标。这是最难的，因为情形就像是‘我是夺冠热门！我现在就能赢！’然而到最后，机会仍然是50对50。”
Rodriguez, who is from Argentina, has worked with Li since the summer of 2012 and tried to understand her mind-set as well as the Chinese norms and expectations that have formed it. They have become one of the most effective player-coach teams around when it comes to communication.
自2012年夏季以来，来自阿根廷的罗德里格斯一直在与李娜合作，试图理解她的思维，以及促使她形成这种思维的中国规范和期望。在交流方面，他们这个运动员与教练组合可以说是最高效的一对。
Asked about Li’s greatest trait, Rodriguez said: “She likes to continue to understand, to learn, and she listens. And she shares. And when you have a 31-year-old player, a champion like her, who continues to learn, to improve, that is the best quality.”
被问及李娜最优秀的品质时，罗德里格斯说：“她喜欢持续地理解和学习，而且善于倾听。她还懂得分享。如果你面对一个31岁的运动员，一个像她这样的冠军，而她还能继续学习和进步，这就是最好的品质。”
In the final, Li will face an opponent in Cibulkova whose best quality may be her outsize belief, which accompanies a powerful, attacking style not normally seen from players her height.
李娜的决赛对手将是齐布科娃，齐布科娃最出色的品质或许是超强的信念，此外，她还拥有她这种身高的运动员少有的强力攻击风格。
“Even if you are tall, it doesn’t mean that you are 100 percent going to make it, you know,” said Cibulkova, a 24-year-old Slovak. “It’s just you have to really want something and just believe in it, you know. There is nothing more important than this.”
“就算你具有身高优势，也不意味着你能百分百取胜，”24岁的斯洛伐克运动员齐布科娃说。“重要的是，你要怀有热切的希望，并抱有信念。再没有比这更重要的了。”
Aside from being one of the shortest players, the 5-foot-3 Cibulkova is one of the most boisterous. Many of the points she wins are quickly followed by a shout of “Pod’me,” which is Slovak for “Let’s go!”
除了个子矮以外，身高5英尺3英寸（约1.6米）的齐布科娃是最有活力的运动员之一。很多次，她都会在得分后迅速地叫一声“Pod’me”，这在斯洛伐克语中是“加油”的意思。
“I have it since I was little kid, you know,” Cibulkova said of her on-court energy. “When I play my best tennis, that’s where you can see like the power and the fight. You know, you have to have something extra if you want to be one of the best tennis players and you are not the tallest, as I said. So, yeah, this is what is my extra.”
“当我还是小孩的时候，就具有这种特点了，”提到自己在球场上的活力时，齐布科娃说。“在我打得最好的时候，你就能看到那种力量和战斗的感觉。就像我说的那样，假如你想成为最好的网球运动员，但又不具备身高优势，那就必须拥有一些额外优势。所以，这就是我的额外优势。”
As Li was in her earlier years, Cibulkova has been streaky in her career. She has played well enough in stretches to reach the quarterfinals or better at all four Grand Slam events, but she has never made the top 10 and would not even crack it if she won her first Grand Slam title Saturday night.
就像李娜在职业生涯早期的表现那样，齐布科娃的表现也十分不稳定。在所有的四个大满贯赛事中，她有时发挥得非常好，能够进入四分之一决赛，有时表现甚至更好，排名却从未进入前10，即使她周六夜间赢得了第一个大满贯头衔，也无法进入前10。
“It will be ‘the biggest match of my life,' ” Cibulkova said, making air quotes with her fingers. “But I will not go on the court like that. There is no pressure. I’m playing finals, so there is nothing better.”
“这将是‘毕生最重大的比赛’，”齐布科娃一边说，一边用手指在空中比划引号。“但我上场的状态会有所不同。这次我没有压力。我已经进了决赛，再也没有比这更好的了。”
Cibulkova said she drew inspiration from her close friend Marion Bartoli, who became an unlikely Wimbledon champion last summer, winning the tournament despite being ranked 15th.
齐布科娃说，她从自己的好友玛丽昂·巴托莉(Marion Bartoli)身上获得了启发。去年夏季，巴托莉以排名第15的身份，出人意料地斩获温网冠军。
“I knew she was working like so hard for it,” Cibulkova said. “She was the one who deserve it so much. Yeah, when she won it I knew, like, everything is possible.”
“我知道她为了夺冠而付出了艰苦的努力，”齐布科娃说。“她理应获胜。是的，当她胜出的时候我就知道，一切皆有可能。”