MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — HOW’S my kid going to get a job? There are few questions I hear more often than that one. In February, I interviewed Laszlo Bock, who is in charge of all hiring at Google — about 100 new hires a week — to try to understand what an employer like Google was looking for and why it was increasingly ready to hire people with no college degrees. Bock’s remarks generated a lot of reader response, particularly his point that prospective bosses today care less about what you know or where you learned it — the Google machine knows everything now — than what value you can create with what you know. With graduations approaching, I went back to Google to ask Bock to share his best advice for job-seekers anywhere, not just at Google. Here is a condensed version of our conversations:
加州山景市——我的孩子要怎样才能找到工作？这恐怕是我最经常听到的一个问题了。今年2月，我采访了拉兹洛·博克(Laszlo Bock)，他是谷歌(Google)所有招聘工作的负责人，而谷歌每周大约招聘100名新人。我想要弄清楚，谷歌这样的公司要招什么样的人，以及它为什么越来越愿意雇佣没有大学文凭的求职者。博克的言论引发了读者的大量反馈，尤其是他的这个观点：如今的雇主不那么在乎你有哪些知识，或者你是在哪里学到的这些知识——谷歌的机器不缺知识，他们更在乎你能用自己的知识创造什么价值。在毕业季来临之际，我再次来到谷歌，请博克不光针对来谷歌求职的人，而是对所有求职者提出一个最好的建议。以下是我们谈话内容的摘录。
You’re not saying college education is worthless?
你不是想说大学教育毫无价值吧？
“My belief is not that one shouldn’t go to college,” said Bock. It is that among 18- to 22-year-olds — or people returning to school years later — “most don’t put enough thought into why they’re going, and what they want to get out of it.” Of course, we want an informed citizenry, where everyone has a baseline of knowledge from which to build skills. That is a social good. But, he added, don’t just go to college because you think it is the right thing to do and that any bachelor’s degree will suffice. “The first and most important thing is to be explicit and willful in making the decisions about what you want to get out of this investment in your education.” It’s a huge investment of time, effort and money and people should think “incredibly hard about what they’re getting in return.”
“我不是觉得人们不应该上大学，”博克说。而是说，在18到22岁的人，以及晚几年读大学的人当中，“大多数人没有对为什么要上学，以及想要从中取得什么进行足够的思考。”当然，我们想要让公民有文化，人人都有基本的知识，从而在其基础上获得技能。这对社会有好处。但是，他接着说，不要只是因为你觉得应该上大学，只想有个本科学历，就去上大学。“最重要的是，在决定你想要从这笔教育投资中得到什么时，你要目的明确、坚持目标。”这是时间、精力和金钱的巨大投资，人们应该“格外努力地思考自己将得到何种回报”。
Once there, said Bock, make sure that you’re getting out of it not only a broadening of your knowledge but skills that will be valued in today’s workplace. Your college degree is not a proxy anymore for having the skills or traits to do any job.
博克说，一旦上了大学，要确保你从中不仅可以拓宽知识，还能得到在如今的职场有价值的技能。你的大学学历不再代表着你拥有做某种工作的能力或特质。
What are those traits? One is grit, he said. Shuffling through résumés of some of Google’s 100 hires that week, Bock explained: “I was on campus speaking to a student who was a computer science and math double major, who was thinking of shifting to an economics major because the computer science courses were too difficult. I told that student they are much better off being a B student in computer science than an A+ student in English because it signals a rigor in your thinking and a more challenging course load. That student will be one of our interns this summer.”
这些特质都包括什么？其中一个就是勇气，他说。博克一边整理那一周雇佣的大约100名新员工的简历，一边解释说：“我曾在校园里和一名计算机科学和数学双学位的学生聊天，他想改学经济学专业，原因是计算机科学的课程太难了。我告诉那个学生，宁可做计算机科学专业成绩得B的学生，也要比英语专业成绩得A+的学生要好，因为这代表着你思维中的严谨性，而且你的课业负担更有挑战性。这个学生今年夏天将成为我们的实习生。”
Or, he added, think of this headline from The Wall Street Journal in 2011: “Students Pick Easier Majors Despite Less Pay.” This was an article about a student who switched from electrical and computer engineering to a major in psychology. She said she just found the former too difficult and would focus instead on a career in public relations and human resources. “I think this student was making a mistake,” said Bock, even if it meant lower grades. “She was moving out of a major where she would have been differentiated in the labor force” and “out of classes that would have made her better qualified for other jobs because of the training.”
他接着说，或者，想想《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)在2011年刊登的那篇文章吧：“尽管毕业后收入低，学生们仍选择较容易的专业”(Students Pick Easier Majors Despite Less Pay)。这篇文章讲到了一名学生从电气和计算机工程专业转到心理学专业的故事。她说，她只是觉得前者太难了，自己未来想要从事公共关系和人力资源方面的工作。博克说，“我觉得这个学生犯了一个错误，”即使读电气和计算机工程专业意味着她的成绩要差一些。“她放弃了一个能够让自己在劳动力大军中脱颖而出的专业，”而且也“放弃了那些通过对自己进行训练、使自己更能胜任其他工作的课程”。
This is key for Bock because the first thing Google looks for “is general cognitive ability — the ability to learn things and solve problems,” he said. In that vein, “a knowledge set that will be invaluable is the ability to understand and apply information — so, basic computer science skills. I’m not saying you have to be some terrific coder, but to just understand how [these] things work you have to be able to think in a formal and logical and structured way.” But that kind of thinking doesn’t have to come from a computer science degree. “I took statistics at business school, and it was transformative for my career. Analytical training gives you a skill set that differentiates you from most people in the labor market.”
这对博克而言也很关键，因为他说，谷歌最想寻找的就是“整体的认知能力——学东西、解决问题的能力”。按照这种思路，“一个非常宝贵的知识集合，应该是有能力理解和运用信息，也就是说计算机科学的基本技能。我并不是说你必须要代码写得好，而是说要想理解这些事情是怎么运行的，就需要有能力以有条理、有逻辑、结构化的方式思考。”不过这种思维能力并不一定来源于计算机科学的一纸文凭。“我在商学院学过统计学，它对我的事业产生了转变性的作用。分析的训练会赋予你一套能让你在劳动力市场上脱颖而出的技能。”
A lot of work, he added, is no longer tied to location. “So if you want your job tied to where you are, you need to be: A) quite good at it; and B) you need to be very adaptable so that you have a baseline skill set that allows you to be a call center operator today and tomorrow be able to interpret MRI scans. To have built the skill set that allows you to do both things requires a baseline capability that’s analytical.” 
他还说，有许多工作岗位已经不再固定于某个地理位置。“所以如果你想让自己的工作一直固定在你现在的位置，就需要：第一、十分擅长那份工作；第二、需要有很强的适应性，要有一系列的基准技能，可以让你今天做呼叫中心操作员，明天就有能力判读核磁共振(MRI)扫描图片。而要建立起使你能够同时做这两种事的技能集合，就需要一种分析性的基本能力。”
Well, what about creativity?
那么创造力呢？
Bock: “Humans are by nature creative beings, but not by nature logical, structured-thinking beings. Those are skills you have to learn. One of the things that makes people more effective is if you can do both. ... If you’re great on both attributes, you’ll have a lot more options. If you have just one, that’s fine, too.” But a lot fewer people have this kind of structured thought process and creativity.
博克说：“人类天生就是具有创造力的生物，但并非生来就会有逻辑、结构化地思考，这些都是必须要学习的技能。那些能让人工作更高效的东西里，就包括同时做到这两点……如果这两种属性你都很棒，那就会有更多选项。如果你只具备一种，那也还好。”然而同时具备这种结构化的思考过程以及创造力的人却要少得多。
Are the liberal arts still important?
那么人文教育还重要吗？
They are “phenomenally important,” he said, especially when you combine them with other disciplines. “Ten years ago behavioral economics was rarely referenced. But [then] you apply social science to economics and suddenly there’s this whole new field. I think a lot about how the most interesting things are happening at the intersection of two fields. To pursue that, you need expertise in both fields. You have to understand economics and psychology or statistics and physics [and] bring them together. You need some people who are holistic thinkers and have liberal arts backgrounds and some who are deep functional experts. Building that balance is hard, but that’s where you end up building great societies, great organizations.”
他说，人文教育“超乎寻常地重要”，尤其是将它与其他专业结合的时候。“十年前，还很少有人谈论行为经济学。可是将社会科学与经济学相结合，突然就产生了这个全新的学科。最有趣的事情会发生在两个学科交叉的领域，我对此有过很多思考。要想达到这一点，就需要同时精通这两个领域。必须同时懂经济学和心理学，或者同时懂统计学和物理学，并把两者结合起来。需要那些能够全面思考、具有人文教育背景，并且对实际操作也有深入了解的专家。取得这种平衡十分困难，但要想构建伟大的社会和伟大组织，落脚点就在这里。”
How do you write a good résumé?
要怎样写一份很棒的简历呢？
“The key,” he said, “is to frame your strengths as: ‘I accomplished X, relative to Y, by doing Z.’ Most people would write a résumé like this: ‘Wrote editorials for The New York Times.’ Better would be to say: ‘Had 50 op-eds published compared to average of 6 by most op-ed [writers] as a result of providing deep insight into the following area for three years.’ Most people don’t put the right content on their résumés.”
他说，“重点是要以这样的框架表达自己的强项：相对于Y，我通过做Z，完成了X。许多人会这样写简历：‘我为《纽约时报》写过社论。’但更好的表述方式是：‘我发表了50篇观点文章，而多数观点文章作者平均发表6篇，因为我持续三年在下列领域提供了深入的洞见。’多数人没有在简历里写出正确的内容。”
What’s your best advice for job interviews?
你对面试有什么最好的建议？
“What you want to do is say: ‘Here’s the attribute I’m going to demonstrate; here’s the story demonstrating it; here’s how that story demonstrated that attribute.’ ” And here is how it can create value. “Most people in an interview don’t make explicit their thought process behind how or why they did something and, even if they are able to come up with a compelling story, they are unable to explain their thought process.”
“你该说的是：‘我要展示这些素质；这些故事能说明这些素质；这些故事为什么能说明这些素质。’”这种叙述方式很有价值的原因在于，“多数人在面试时，不会明确表达为什么做某件事、如何做某件事背后的思维过程，即使他们能讲出引人入胜的事，也并不能解释自己的思考过程。”
For parents, new grads and those too long out of work, I hope some of this helps.
我希望这篇文章能对父母、刚毕业的学生，以及失业已久的人起到一些帮助。