RIO DE JANEIRO — The chants at the game between Spain and Chile began slowly, first from one side of Estádio do Maracanã, then from the other. By the time the final minutes had ticked off the clock Wednesday, tens of thousands of fans had joined in.
里约热内卢——在赛中，西班牙球迷和智利球迷的对喊在一开始还有些懒散，喊声先是来自马拉卡纳体育场(Estádio do Maracanã)的一侧，然后是另一侧。随着时间的流逝，当周三的终场时刻到来时，已有数万球迷加入呐喊。
“El-im-in-a-do! El-im-in-a-do!” — eliminated — said those fans, who were leaping so wildly in their red shirts that they made the stands look like a supersize swath of roiling scarlet cloth.
这些球迷叫着，“El-im-in-a-do! El-im-in-a-do!”，意思是“淘汰出局”，他们穿着红色球衫，疯狂地跳着脚，这让看台看上去就像是一匹翻滚不息的超大号红布。
But those fans were not wearing the red jerseys of Spain, the defending World Cup champion and two-time European champion. They were wearing the red shirts of Chile, which eliminated Spain from this tournament in the first round, after Spain had played two games. No past World Cup defending champion had been knocked out of the tournament so quickly.
可是，这些球迷穿的不是红色的西班牙球衫。西班牙是世界杯卫冕冠军兼两届欧洲杯冠军。他们穿的是智利的红球衫，后者在第一轮比赛就把西班牙给淘汰出局了，至此，西班牙刚踢了两场比赛。过去，还没有哪届世界杯卫冕冠军被如此之快地淘汰出局。
Watching Chile’s 2-0 victory unfold was like seeing a prizefighter clobbered in the face again and again, then seeing him fall to the canvas and struggle to rise as the referee counts to 10. There’s a sense of pity in seeing a legend fall so unexpectedly, and appear so helpless.
目睹智利2-0的胜利，就像是看一名职业拳击手一次又一次遭受脸部的重击，然后看他倒地，在裁判从1数到10时想奋力爬起，却力不从心。眼看着一个传奇球队如此出人意料地落败，而且显得如此无助，不免让人生出一丝怜悯之情。
It all happened so fast. First came the Spaniards losing to the Netherlands, 5-1, on Friday in their opening game. Then came Wednesday’s match, in which a death knell clanged for most of the game’s 90-plus minutes.
这一切发生得太快了。西班牙队先是在上周五的开场赛中以5-1败给了荷兰队。然后就是周三的比赛，在长达90多分钟的比赛里，大部分时间，西班牙队听到的都是丧钟被当当敲响的声音。
Spain missed a few good chances early, but Chile struck first, in the 20th minute, thanks to Xabi Alonso’s ill-advised and lazy back pass at midfield that sprang Chile down the right. Eduardo Vargas took a pass from Charles Aránguiz. He then sent the ball flying past goalkeeper Iker Casillas, who was probably pretty sick of seeing the Brazuca — the tournament’s official ball has its own name — whiz by him and being unable to even get a hand on it.
西班牙队一开始错失了几次良机，而智利队却在第20分钟攻入了第一球，这要感谢哈维·阿隆索(Xabi Alonso)在中场相当不明智且懒散的一记向后传球，随即智利队在右侧形成了突破。爱德华多·巴尔加斯(Eduardo Vargas)接过查尔斯·阿朗吉斯(Charles Aránguiz)的传球，之后让球飞过了守门员伊克尔·卡西利亚斯(Iker Casillas)，后者也许已经看厌了“桑巴荣耀”(Brazuca)——这是本届比赛官方用球的名字——嗖的从身边飞过，却连边都碰不到。
In the 43rd minute, Casillas did get a hand on it: He punched away a shot from the goal, but the ball landed right under Aránguiz’s right foot, as if sucked there by a magnet. How fortunate for Chile, which was already feeling pretty confident. Aránguiz rocketed a shot past Casillas again, adding yet another terrifying scene to his World Cup nightmare.
第43分钟，卡西利亚斯确实碰到了球，他把射向球门的球击打了出去，可球正好落在阿郎吉斯的右脚下，就好像被那里的一块磁石给吸住了。这对已经十分自信的智利队来说实在是太幸运了。阿郎吉斯拔脚怒射，皮球再次绕过卡西利亚斯，给对方的世界杯噩梦再添一幅可怕的场景。
Spain tried, it really tried, to flip the switch against Chile and let its famous, elegantly mechanical style of play take off on autopilot. But its tiki-taka was on display in only fits and starts, as if its batteries were running out.
西班牙试过了，它真的在努力启动对抗智利的开关，让自己大名鼎鼎的、优雅的技术性打法自动控制场上的局势。可是他们的“全能足球”时断时续，就好像电池正被耗尽。
Every time Spain tried to make its signature short passes, Chile would find a way to disrupt them. Arturo Vidal, the midfielder from Juventus, would appear out of nowhere, snatching the ball and running away with it like a playground bully.
每次西班牙试图进行其标志性的短传，智利就会想办法将其打乱。来自尤文图斯队(Juventus)的中场队员阿图罗·比达尔(Arturo Vidal)会神出鬼没地冒出来把球抢走，就像操场小霸王那样带着球跑开。
The Chileans were faster and, frankly, seemed more passionate about winning. Spain’s coach, Vicente del Bosque, saw that, too.
智利人更快，而且坦率地说，他们似乎对取胜更有激情。西班牙队教练文森特·德尔·博斯克(Vicente del Bosque)也看到了这一点。
“I would have never, ever thought that we would leave the tournament after the first round,” he said. “We started sluggishly and were not brave enough, really. It’s a pity because I didn’t expect that.”
“我从没想到我们会在第一轮后就离开世界杯，”他说。“我们开局时有些无精打采，而且不够勇敢，真的。很遗憾，因为我没料到会是这种结局。”
No one expected the Spanish to show up in Brazil looking so tired and slow. Compared with the Chileans, they looked as if they were in slow motion. But when you think about it, was it simply because they didn’t have any great soccer left in them?
谁都没料到西班牙队在巴西现身时看上去那么疲惫，那么慢。相比智利队，他们看上去似乎在进行慢动作。但你想想，这仅仅是因为他们完全没了对足球的热情吗?
Seven of Spain’s 23 players competed in the all-Spanish Champions League final a few weeks ago. Ten played in the semis. In the longer view, the team has been playing and playing since winning the 2008 European championship, and several of this World Cup team’s key players — including Casillas, Xabi Alonso, Andrés Iniesta, Cesc Fàbregas and Xavi Hernández — were on that squad.
在西班牙队的23名球员中，其中七名队员几周前还在欧洲冠军联赛(Champions League)决赛中拼杀，当时的两支队伍均来自西班牙。队中十人踢过半决赛。再往前看，自从赢得2008年的欧冠后，这支队伍一直在比赛，征战本届世界杯的西班牙队中的几名关键球员——包括卡西利亚斯、阿隆索、安德烈斯·伊涅斯塔(Andrés Iniesta)、塞斯克·法比加斯(Cesc Fàbregas)和哈维·埃尔南德斯(Xavi Hernández)——都是那支队伍中的成员。
Xavi, the key figure in their midfield is 34; Casillas is 33; Xabi Alonso is 32. After so many miles on their legs and so much pressure to stay on top, their bodies might have had enough of it. No one ever said it’s easy to be the best. Besides, a younger generation is waiting.
中场关键人物哈维是34岁；卡西利亚斯33岁；阿隆索32岁。在双腿跑了这么远，承受了这么大的保持最佳成绩的压力后，他们的身体可能已经受够了。从来没人说保持最佳状态容易。此外，更年轻的一代正在等着。
Del Bosque did not start Xavi, Gerard Piqué or Fàbregas on Wednesday. Xabi Alonso, who had buried his face in his hands after setting up that first goal for Chile, was replaced at halftime by Koke, who is 22. Regarding Spain’s future, del Bosque said there would be consequences for a meltdown like this.
周三，博斯克的首发阵容中没有哈维·埃尔南德斯、杰拉德·皮克 (Gerard Piqué)和法比加斯。中场时，阿隆索被22岁的科克(Koke)换下。在自己帮助智利首进一球后，阿隆索双手掩面。对于西拔牙的失败，博斯克表示，像这样的溃败会有一些后果。
Afterward, Casillas said he couldn’t explain what happened and apologized to the team’s fans for disappointing them.
后来，卡西利亚斯说自己无法解释发生了什么，并为让球迷失望而道歉。
“They should know that we gave all we had,” he said. He added, “This squad didn’t deserve to go out like this.”
“他们应该知道，我们已经尽全力了，”他说，“这支球队不应该是这样的结局。”
Maybe Spain saw it coming; maybe it didn’t. But for every amazing athlete and every great team, there comes an end. Sometimes, it comes slowly, the way it did for Michael Jordan when he couldn’t dazzle us with his spectacular play as much as before. And sometimes, it comes fast, like one day waking up to a pair of creaky knees that refuse to do anyone’s bidding.
西班牙人或许有心理准备；或许没有。然而，每一名非凡的运动员，每一支伟大的球队，都会有谢幕的一天。有时候，这一天来得很慢，就像当年的迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)，逐渐已经无法用惊人的表现让我们目瞪口呆。有时候，这一天会匆匆降临，就像某天早上你突然发现，饱经风霜的膝盖已经怎么也不听使唤了。
Only one thing is certain: Even the best can’t avoid the end.
只有一件事确定无疑：再美好的事物也会有尽头。
On Wednesday, Spain met its end, and there were few friends at the funeral. The Chilean fans dominated the stands. When those supporters started chanting and cheering, I found the sound earsplitting, like the Super Bowl and an echo chamber filled with screaming middle-schoolers hopped up on sugar, wrapped into one.
周三，西班牙队走到了终点，葬礼上几乎看不到友善的面孔。观众席上大多是智利球迷。当他们开始高唱和欢呼的时候，我感觉这声音要把耳膜震碎，如同一场超级碗的比赛，再加上一间挤满了尖叫着的、精神亢奋的中学生的回声室。
The Chilean fans were so riled up before the game that nearly 100 of them stormed one gate of the stadium, broke fences and sprinted into the news media center, knocking over a temporary wall in the chaos. They were led out by the police.
比赛开始前，智利的球迷情绪激动，以至于近100人冲进体育场的一个大门，毁坏了围栏，闯入媒体中心，并在混乱中撞到了一堵简易墙。他们后来被警察带了出去。
Spain’s team went out much more quietly.
西班牙队的离场要比这安静太多。
After a few final tries to control the ball, they tripped over themselves and realized their efforts were futile. Chile had won, an era was done. Spain’s grand squad, which had been a marvel in the sport for so many years, walked off the field in silence.
在最后的几次控球尝试之后，他们甚至会绊倒自己的队友，随后他们意识到，所有的努力都已经失去意义。智利队赢了，一个时代结束了。伟大的西班牙队，多年来的体坛传奇，沉默离场。
One Chilean fan held up a sign that defined the night: “Adios ’Spana.”
一名智利球迷手举的标语道尽了这个夜晚：“再见，西班牙”。