Lou Reed, the singer, songwriter and guitarist whose work with the Velvet Underground in the 1960s had a major influence on generations of rock musicians, and who remained a powerful if polarizing force for the rest of his life, died on Sunday at his home in Amagansett, N.Y., on Long Island. He was 71.
歌手、词曲作者和吉他手卢·里德(Lou Reed)周日于他在纽约长岛阿玛根塞特的家中逝世，享年71岁。20世纪60年代，他与“地下丝绒”(Velvet Underground)所创作的音乐对几代摇滚乐手产生了重大影响，其后毕生一直是毁誉参半的重要人物。
The cause was liver disease, said Dr. Charles Miller of the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, where Mr. Reed had liver transplant surgery this year and was being treated again until a few days ago.
俄亥俄州克利夫兰医院的查尔斯·米勒医生(Dr. Charles Miller)说，他的死因是肝部疾病，今年里德曾在这家医院接受肝移植手术，截止到数日之前一直在这里接受治疗。 
Mr. Reed brought dark themes and a mercurial, sometimes aggressive disposition to rock music. “I’ve always believed that there’s an amazing number of things you can do through a rock ‘n’ roll song,” he once told the journalist Kristine McKenna, “and that you can do serious writing in a rock song if you can somehow do it without losing the beat. The things I’ve written about wouldn’t be considered a big deal if they appeared in a book or movie.”
里德为摇滚乐带来了若干阴郁的主题，以及一种变化无常、有时带有挑衅的倾向。“我一直认为一首摇滚歌曲可以表达多得惊人的东西，”他曾在接受记者克里斯汀·麦肯纳(Kristine McKenna)采访时说，“通过摇滚歌词也能进行严肃写作，只要节拍不出错就行。我写的东西如果出现在书里或者电影里，就不会被当作大事。”
He played the sport of alienating listeners, defending the right to contradict himself in hostile interviews, to contradict his transgressive image by idealizing sweet or old-fashioned values in word or sound, or to present intuition as blunt logic. But his early work assured him a permanent audience.
他刻意疏远听众，捍卫自己在充满敌意的采访中自相矛盾的权利。他在文字或音乐中把美好或老式的价值观加以理想化，从而否定自己违背道德观念的形象，或者把自己的直觉以坦率的逻辑表达出来。但他的早期作品确保他拥有永久的忠实听众。
The Velvet Underground, which was originally sponsored by Andy Warhol and showcased the songwriting of John Cale as well as Mr. Reed, wrought gradual but profound impact on the high-I.Q., low-virtuosity stratum of punk, alternative and underground rock around the world. Joy Division, Talking Heads, Patti Smith, R.E.M., the Strokes and numerous others were descendants. The composer Brian Eno, in an often-quoted interview from 1982, suggested that if the group’s first album, “The Velvet Underground & Nico,” sold only 30,000 copies during its first five years — a figure probably lower than the reality — “everyone who bought one of those 30,000 copies started a band.”
“地下丝绒”最早由安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)赞助支持，歌曲由约翰·凯尔(John Cale)和里德共同创作，对全世界重智商、轻技巧的朋克音乐、另类摇滚和地下摇滚产生了缓慢而深远影响。“快乐分裂”(Joy Division)、“传声头像”(Talking Head)、帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)、“R.E.M”、“鼓击”(Strokes)以及无数乐队都是其后继者。作曲家布莱恩·伊诺(Brian Eno)1982年在一次采访中说的话曾被广为引用，他说，如果乐队的第一张专辑《地下丝绒与妮可》(The Velvet Underground & Nico)在发行后的五年内只卖出三万张的话（这个数字很可能低于真实销量），那么“这三万个买专辑的人，后来都组建了自己的乐队”。
Many of the group’s themes — among them love, sexual deviance, alienation, addiction, joy and spiritual transfiguration — stayed in Mr. Reed’s work through his long run of solo recordings. Among the most noteworthy of those records were “Transformer” (1972), “Berlin” (1973) and “New York” (1989). The most notorious, without question, was “Metal Machine Music” (1975).
乐队歌曲的主题包括爱、异常性行为、异化、毒瘾、欢乐与精神扭曲，其中不少都延续到里德漫长的个人音乐生涯里。他最著名的专辑包括1972年的《变形》(Transformer)、1973年的《柏林》(Berlin)，以及1989年的《纽约》(New York)。毫无疑问，最臭名昭著的一张当属1975年的《金属机器音乐》(Metal Machine Music)。
Beloved of Mr. Reed and not too many others, “Metal Machine Music” was four sides of electric-guitar feedback strobing between two amplifiers, with Mr. Reed altering the speed of the tape recorder; no singing, no drums, no stated key. At the time it was mostly understood, if at all, as a riddle about artistic intent. Was it his truest self? Was it a joke? Or was there no difference?
没多少人喜欢《金属机器音乐》，但它却是里德的挚爱，里面的四首歌都是电吉他回授，在两个扩音器之间闪动，同时里德不断改变录音机的速度；没有人声，没有鼓，也没有定调。在当时，就算有人理解它，也只是将它当做带有艺术涵义的一个谜团。这是他最真实的自我吗？抑或只是一个玩笑？又或者这二者之间根本就没有区别？
Mr. Reed wrote in the liner notes that “no one I know has listened to it all the way through, including myself,” but he also defended it as the next step after La Monte Young’s early minimalism. “There’s infinite ways of listening to it,” he told the critic Lester Bangs in 1976.
里德在唱片内页的注释里写道“我认识的人里，包括我自己在内，没有人能从始至终听完它”，但他为它辩护，说它是在拉蒙特·扬(La Mont Young)的早期极简主义基础上发展起来的。1976年他对评论家莱斯特·邦斯(Lester Bangs)说，“倾听它的方式有无数种。”
Not too long after his first recordings, made at 16 with a doo-wop band in Freeport, N.Y., Mr. Reed started singing outside of the song’s melody, as if he were giving a speech with a fluctuating drone in a New York accent. That sound, heard with the Velvet Underground on songs like “Heroin” and “Sweet Jane” and in his post-Velvet songs “Walk on the Wild Side,” “Street Hassle” and others, became one of the most familiar frequencies in rock. He played lead guitar the same way, straining against his limitations.
他的前几张专辑是16岁那年，在纽约弗里波特与一支嘟-喔普(doo-wop)乐队合作完成的，之后不久他开始不按歌曲的旋律唱歌，仿佛在用纽约口音的抑扬顿挫做演讲。这种声音在“地下丝绒”的《海洛因》(Heroin)和《甜蜜的简》(Sweet Jane)，乃至他在“地下丝绒”之后的歌曲《狂野之行》(Walk on the Wild Side)、《街头论战》(Street Hassle)等其他歌曲中都可以听到，成了摇滚乐中最常用到的手法之一。他弹主音吉他也是以同样的方式把自己绷紧到极限。
Mr. Reed confidently made artistic decisions that other musicians would not have even considered. He was an aesthetic primitivist with high-end audio obsessions. He was an English major who understood his work as a form of literature, though he distrusted overly poetic pop lyrics, and though distorted electric guitars and drums sometimes drowned out his words.
里德在艺术上做出的自信决断是其他音乐家可能根本从未想到过的。他是个美学上的原始主义者，极度迷恋声音的世界。他主修英语，因此把自己的作品视为一种文学形式，尽管他曾公然表示不信任过分诗意化的流行音乐歌词，而且扭曲的电吉他和鼓声也不时淹没他的词句。
Lewis Allan Reed was born on March 2, 1942, in Brooklyn, the son of Sidney Reed, a tax accountant, and Toby Reed, a homemaker. When he was 11 his family moved to Freeport, on Long Island. His mother survives him, as does his sister, Merrill Weiner, and his wife, the composer and musician Laurie Anderson.
刘易斯·艾伦·里德(Lewis Allan Reed)于1942年3月2日生于布鲁克林，其父西德尼·里德(Sidney Reed)是税务会计师，母亲托比·里德(Toby Reed)是家庭主妇。他11岁那年，全家迁到长岛的弗里波特。如今他的母亲仍然健在；其他在世的亲人还有妹妹梅丽尔·韦纳(Merrill Weiner)，以及他的妻子、作曲家与音乐家劳丽·安德森(Laurie Anderson)。
Generally resistant to authority and prone to mood swings, Mr. Reed troubled his parents enough that they assented to a doctor’s recommendation for weeks of electroshock therapy at Creedmoor State Psychiatric Hospital in Queens; in 1959, while beginning his music studies at New York University, he underwent further treatment.
里德渐渐开始反抗权威，情绪摇摆不定，父母十分担忧，于是听从一个医生的建议，让里德在皇后区的克利德摩尔州立精神病院接受了数周的电击疗法。1959年里德开始在纽约大学学习音乐之后，还在接受进一步治疗。
After transferring to Syracuse University, he fell into the circle around the poet and short-story writer Delmore Schwartz, one of his English professors. Mr. Reed would later resist being pigeonholed, but his college profile suggests a distinct type: an early-’60s East Coast hipster, a middle-class suburban rebel in love with pre-Beatles rock ‘n’ roll, jazz and street-life writers: William S. Burroughs, Hubert Selby Jr., Raymond Chandler, Allen Ginsberg.
后来他转学到雪城大学，打入了诗人与短篇小说作家德尔莫·施瓦兹(Delmore Schwartz)的小圈子，施瓦兹是他的英语教授之一。里德后来拒绝被视为某种特定类型的人，但他在大学期间的形象却很鲜明，是典型的60年代初东海岸嬉皮，城郊中产阶级叛逆者，喜欢“披头士”(Beatles)之前的摇滚乐、爵士乐和那些过着街头生活的作家——威廉·S·巴勒斯(William S. Burroughs)、小休伯特·塞尔比(Hubert Selby Jr.)、雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)和艾伦·金斯堡(Allen Ginsberg)。
He clearly absorbed and, at least at times, admired Bob Dylan. (“Dylan gets on my nerves,” he said in 1968. “If you were at a party with him, I think you’d tell him to shut up.” Twenty-one years later he would tell Rolling Stone, “Dylan continuously knocks me out.”)
他显然深入研究过鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)，至少也曾一度敬仰他。（“迪伦让我心烦，”1968年他说，“如果你和他一起参加派对，我想你会对他说‘闭嘴’。”21年后，他又对《滚石》[Rolling Stone]杂志说，‘迪伦一直让我昏昏欲睡’）。
While in college he wrote “Heroin,” a song that accelerates in waves with only two chords. It treated addiction and narcotic ecstasy both critically and without moralizing, as a poet or novelist at that time might have, but not a popular songwriter:
在大学期间，他写了《海洛因》，这首歌一波接一波地加速，只有两个和弦，主题是毒瘾和吸毒快感。他的处理方式既有批判性，又不带道德倾向，就像当时的诗人和小说家那样，但在当时的流行歌曲作者中却别无仅有：
I don’t know just where I’m going
我不知自己将要去向何处
But I’m gonna try for the kingdom, if I can
但我要试试能不能前往那个国度
‘Cause it makes me feel like I’m a man
因为当我把针头刺进静脉
When I put a spike into my vein
它让我感觉自己像个男子汉
And I tell you things aren’t quite the same
然后让我告诉你一切都不再一样
When I’m rushing on my run
我催促自己一路狂奔
And I feel just like Jesus’ son
感觉就像基督的儿子
And I guess that I just don’t know.
我想我只是不知道而已。
After graduation Mr. Reed found work in New York as a staff songwriter for Pickwick International, a label that capitalized on trends in popular music with budget releases by made-up groups. Among his credits for Pickwick were “Johnny Won’t Surf No More” and “The Ostrich,” written for a nonexistent dance craze and sung by Mr. Reed himself.
毕业后里德在纽约的皮克威克国际(Pickwick Internatioinal)找了一份写歌的工作，这是一个追逐流行音乐潮流的厂牌，发行造价低廉的唱片，由临时拼凑起来的乐队演唱。里德为匹克威克写的歌包括《约翰尼不再冲浪》(Johnny Won’t Surf No More)和《鸵鸟》(The Ostrich)，是为一场并不存在的舞曲狂热风潮创作的，都由里德本人演唱。
When Mr. Reed met Mr. Cale, a musician working with La Monte Young’s Theater of Eternal Music, they wanted to combine early-1960s rock with the drones of classical minimalism. They jammed with the guitarist Sterling Morrison, one of Mr. Reed’s Syracuse friends, and the poet and visual artist Angus MacLise on percussion, who was soon replaced by Maureen Tucker, the sister of a college friend of Mr. Reed’s. With Mr. Cale playing viola, keyboards and electric bass, they named themselves the Velvet Underground after the title of a book by Michael Leigh on practices in nonstandard sexuality in the early 1960s, and played their original music at Café Bizarre in Greenwich Village; the filmmaker Barbara Rubin came by with Andy Warhol, who quickly incorporated the band into the Exploding Plastic Inevitable, a touring multimedia performance-art happening with dancers, film projections and the German singer Nico.
后来里德遇到了在拉蒙特·扬的“恒音剧院”(Theater of Eternal Music)工作的约翰·凯尔，两人想把20世纪60年代初的摇滚乐与古典极简主义音乐结合起来。吉他手斯特林·莫里森(Sterling Morrison)是里德在雪城大学的朋友，与他们一起即兴演奏；诗人和视觉艺术家安格斯·马克莱斯(Angus MacLise)担任打击乐手，不过很快就被里德大学时一个朋友的妹妹莫琳·塔克(Maureen Tucker)所取代 。凯尔演奏中提琴、键盘和电贝斯，他们给乐队起名为“地下丝绒”，这个名字来自迈克尔·利(Michael Leigh)描写60年代初非常规性行为的同名小说。“地下丝绒”在格林威治村的“奇异咖啡屋”演出自己的原创音乐；电影制片人芭芭拉·鲁宾(Barbara Rubin)和安迪·沃霍尔碰巧路过这里。不久后，沃霍尔就与这支乐队合作，建立了“爆炸塑胶之必然”(Exploding Plastic Inevitable)，这是一个巡演多媒体表演艺术团体，结合了舞蹈和电影放映，并与德国歌手妮可(Nico)合作。
The group’s association with Warhol lasted from late 1965 to late 1967, and Mr. Reed thereafter was generally full of praise for Warhol, whom he saw as an exemplary modern artist and New Yorker. A proud New Yorker himself, Mr. Reed squared off against West Coast rock and declared his hatred for hippies. In a 1968 interview he characterized the San Francisco bands of the time, the Grateful Dead and Jefferson Airplane especially, as “tedious, a lie and untalented.”
这个团体与沃霍尔的合作从1965年年底持续到1967年年底，里德后来对沃霍尔赞不绝口，称他是现代艺术家与纽约人的典范。里德本身就是一个骄傲的纽约人，他抨击西海岸摇滚乐，公开宣扬对嬉皮士的厌恶。在1968年的采访中，他说当时旧金山的一些乐队“乏味，虚伪，毫无天赋”，尤其是“感恩之死”(Grateful Dead)乐队和“杰斐逊飞机”(Jefferson Airplane)乐队。
In mid-1970 Mr. Reed left the Velvet Underground and moved to Long Island, where he worked for two years as a typist in his father’s firm. He made a disappointing solo record toward the end of 1971, but David Bowie, a Velvet Underground fan when there weren’t many, helped advance Mr. Reed’s career: he started playing Velvet Underground songs in concert and helped produce Mr. Reed’s album “Transformer” in London. It rose to No. 29 on Billboard’s Top 200, but as with nearly everything Mr. Reed did, it took time to spread through the culture.
20世纪70年代中期，里德离开“地下丝绒”，搬到长岛，在父亲的公司里当了两年打字员。1971年底，他发行了一张令人失望的个人专辑。大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)是“地下丝绒”当时为数不多的歌迷之一，是他帮助推动了里德的音乐生涯：鲍伊开始在演唱会上演出“地下丝绒”的歌曲，帮里德在伦敦制作了专辑《变形》。这张专辑在“公告牌”(Billboard)前200名排行榜上最终升至第29位，但和里德的几乎所有作品一样，它在文化中的意义慢慢才传播开来。
“Walk on the Wild Side,” a quiet, jazzlike single from the album about the hustlers and transvestites around Warhol at the Factory, introduced a new character in each verse and included a reference to fellatio that slipped past the censors; it became an FM radio staple and Mr. Reed’s only Top 40 hit.
《狂野之行》(Walk on the Wild Side)是专辑中宁静的、爵士风格的单曲，主题是沃霍尔在“工厂”(Factory)工作室期间身边那些男妓和易装者们，每一段都介绍一个人物，其中有一段关于口交的描述逃过了审查者的眼睛；它成了FM电台的常客，也成了里德唯一一首打入排行榜前40名的金曲。
In 1973 he married Bettye Kronstadt, a cocktail waitress; the relationship ended during the making of “Berlin” that summer. For several years after that Mr. Reed, whose sexual identity seemed to be as fluid as the songs from that time suggested, was romantically involved with a transvestite named Rachel, whose last name has long been uncertain; she was private, but their relationship was public. Rachel, it was assumed, inspired much of his album “Coney Island Baby”; she is also pictured on the cover of “Walk on the Wild Side,” a greatest-hits album.
1973年，他娶了鸡尾酒吧女招待贝蒂·克诺斯塔茨(Bettye Kronstadt)，这段关系于同年制作专辑《柏林》时结束。之后几年里，里德的性取向似乎和他那段时期的歌中所描述的一样摇摆不定，他与一个名叫瑞秋(Rachel)的变装者发生了恋爱关系，她的姓氏早已不可考。瑞秋的身份无人知晓，但他俩的关系是公开的。普遍认为是瑞秋启发他创作了《科尼岛宝贝》(Coney Island Baby)这张专辑，她的照片也出现在《狂野之行》精选集封面上。
Mr. Reed’s look toughened in the mid-’70s, toward leather, bleached crew cuts and painted fingernails. He revisited his rickety, strange and vulnerable Velvet Underground songs on the live album “Rock N Roll Animal,” making them hard and slick and ready for a new order of teenage listeners.
20世纪70年代中期，里德身穿皮衣，平头漂染成金色，涂指甲油，造型开始变得粗犷。他在现场专辑《摇滚动物》(Rock N Roll Animal)中重新演绎了那些松散、奇异而脆弱的“地下丝绒”歌曲，把它们变得强悍而流畅，更适合青少年听众的新口味。
By the end of the ‘70s his interviews and songs were full of a drive to change his way of living. In 1980 he married Sylvia Morales, who became his manager and muse. She was the subject of, or at least mentioned in, some of his most forthrightly romantic songs of the 1980s. But their relationship ended toward the end of the decade, and he met Ms. Anderson in the early ‘90s. They lived together in the West Village for more than a decade before marrying in 2008. They continued to live in the West Village as well as in Amagansett.
70年代末，他的访谈和歌曲中充满改变生活方式的意愿。1980年，他与西尔维娅·莫拉里斯(Sylvia Morales)结婚，她成了他的经纪人与缪斯。80年代，他有几首最直白浪漫的歌曲都是以她为主题，至少也是提到了她。但两人的关系在80年代末走到尽头。90年代初，他遇到安德森女士，两人在西村同居了十几年，于2008年结婚。后来他们仍然住在西村和阿玛根塞特。
In middle age Mr. Reed became a kind of cultural elder, acting in films by Wim Wenders and Wayne Wang, befriending the Czech leader Vaclav Havel (who smuggled a copy of a Velvet Underground LP into Prague after a visit to New York in the late 1960s), creating multimedia stage productions with the director Robert Wilson. His own work moved between mature, elegiac singer-songwriter reports on grief, tenderness and age and wilder or more ambitious projects.
人到中年的里德开始成为文化意义上的长者。他曾在维姆·文德斯(Wim Wenders)与王颖(Wayne Wang)的影片中出演角色；与捷克领导人瓦茨拉夫·哈维尔(Vaclav Havel)结交为友（60年代末，哈维尔访问纽约时曾经偷带了一张“地下丝绒”的LP唱片回布拉格）；与导演罗伯特·威尔逊(Robert Wilson)合作制作多媒体舞台剧。他自己的作品则在成熟伤感的创作歌手对悲哀、柔情与年老的自白，以及更加狂野和雄心勃勃的主题之间摇摆。
“The Raven,” a play and album, was based on writings by Edgar Allan Poe and included the saxophonist Ornette Coleman and the singer Antony Hegarty. For the album “Lulu,” an aggressive collaboration with Metallica based on Frank Wedekind’s play, he found himself in a “Metal Machine Music” redux, once again attacked by critics, once again declaring victory.
《乌鸦》(The Raven)是舞台剧兼专辑，根据埃德加·爱伦·坡(Edgar Allan Poe)的作品改编，萨克斯手奥奈克·科尔曼(Ornette Coleman)和歌手安东尼·海加蒂(Antony Hegarty)都参与其中。专辑《露露》(Lulu)根据弗兰克·魏德金(Frank Wedekind)的剧本改编，是他与“金属”(Metallica)乐队充满雄心的合作，结果他发现自己再一次处于类似发行《金属机器音乐》时的境地——再一次被评论家所抨击，又再一次宣告自己的胜利。
He got together with Mr. Cale, Ms. Tucker and Mr. Morrison for a one-off Velvet Underground reunion in 1990 and a tour in 1993. (Mr. Morrison died of lymphoma in 1995.) And he eventually returned to his dark anti-masterpiece: the saxophonist Ulrich Krieger transcribed “Metal Machine Music” for an electroacoustic ensemble in 2002, and in 2009 Mr. Reed performed improvised music inspired by that album with a group, including Mr. Krieger, called Metal Machine Trio.
1990年，他和凯尔、塔克与莫里森一度重组“地下丝绒”，并于1993年举行巡演（莫里森于1995年死于淋巴瘤）。后来他终于回归了自己的黑暗反杰作——2002年，萨克斯手乌尔里希·克里格(Ulrich Krieger)把《金属机器音乐》改编成电声乐合奏专辑；2009年，里德与克里格组成了“金属机器三人组”(Metal Machine Trio)，演出在那张专辑启发下做出的即兴音乐。
Sober since the ’80s and a practitioner of tai chi, Mr. Reed had a liver transplant in April at the Cleveland Clinic. “I am a triumph of modern medicine, physics and chemistry,” he wrote in a public statement upon his release. “I am bigger and stronger than ever.”
里德自80年代就不再吸毒，并开始练习太极拳。今年4月，他在克利夫兰医院接受了肝移植手术。“我是现代医学、物理学和化学的胜利，”他在出院后的公开声明中写道，“我比以往更加坚强、健壮。”
But he was back at the clinic for treatment last week. Dr. Miller, who performed the transplant, said Mr. Reed decided to return home after doctors could no longer treat his end-stage liver disease. “We all agreed that we did everything we could,” Dr. Miller said.
但上周他又回到医院接受治疗。为他进行手术的米勒医生说，当医生们对他的肝病晚期症状已经束手无策后，里德决定回家。“我们都认为我们已经竭尽全力，”米勒医生说。
Just weeks after his liver transplant, Mr. Reed wrote a review of Kanye West’s album “Yeezus” for the online publication The Talkhouse, celebrating its abrasiveness and returning once more to “Metal Machine Music” to explain an artist’s deepest motives.
接受肝移植手术几周后，里德为坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)的专辑《Yeezus》在Talkhouse网站的在线发售写了一篇乐评，赞美了它的粗糙直接，并且再一次提到《金属机器音乐》，解释艺术家最深刻的动机。
“I have never thought of music as a challenge — you always figure the audience is at least as smart as you are,” he wrote. “You do this because you like it, you think what you’re making is beautiful. And if you think it’s beautiful, maybe they think it’s beautiful.”
“我从不认为音乐是一种挑衅——你永远都得明白，听众至少和你一样聪明，”他写道，“你这样做只是因为你喜欢，你觉得你做的东西是美的。如果你觉得它是美的，那么听众们或许也会觉得它是美的。”