QUNU, South Africa — He stood with a deadpan expression just inches from President Obama and other world leaders speaking at Nelson Mandela’s memorial, dressed in a dark suit, with a blue security lanyard bearing the words “state funeral” draped around his neck, flapping his arms and gesticulating in what was supposed to be sign language for the deaf.
南非库努——他身着深色套装，面无表情地站在那里，紧挨着奥巴马总统和其他几位在纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)纪念仪式上发表讲话的世界领导人，脖子上的蓝色安全挂带写着“国葬”的字样。他挥舞手臂做出各种手势，那些手势本应是给聋人识读的手语。
The man was a fraud, sign-language experts said Wednesday, expressing outrage that an impostor who was clearly illiterate in the linguistic skills of signing could have pulled off such a stunt. He was a constant presence on the stage of the memorial on Tuesday, watched not only by the audience in the 93,000-seat soccer stadium in Soweto but by hundreds of millions on television.
周三，手语专家表示该男子是个骗子。他们纷纷表示愤怒，因为这样一个对手语技能显然一无所知的骗子居然成为了大众的焦点。周二纪念仪式的讲台上一直都有这名男子的身影，看到他的不仅是索韦托这个9.3万人足球场里的观众，还有电视机前数以亿计的观众。
More than 24 hours later, the South African government was still at a loss to explain how the impostor, whose identity remained a mystery, had not only breached security checks but had even gotten the job.
已经过去了不止24个小时，南非政府依然无法解释，这个骗子如何不仅通过了安检，而且还得到了这份工作。该男子的身份依然是个谜。
“This ‘fake interpreter’ has made a mockery of South African sign language and has disgraced the South African sign language-interpreting profession,” said Bruno Druchen, the national director of DeafSA, a Johannesburg advocacy organization for the deaf. In a statement posted on the organization’s Facebook page, Mr. Druchen said, “The deaf community is in outrage.”
“这个‘冒牌翻译’让南非手语成了笑柄，让南非手语翻译这个职业蒙羞，”约翰内斯堡聋人权利倡导组织南非聋人联合会(DeafSA)全国总监布鲁诺·德鲁琛(Bruno Druchen)说。在该组织发表在Facebook上的一份声明中，德鲁琛说，“聋人界十分愤怒。”
The national embarrassment over the fraudulent interpreter was only one of a number of things that seemed to go wrong in the government’s organization and management of the memorial event, adding to the perception of sloppiness and haste in preparations following Mr. Mandela’s death last week. Many South Africans who had wanted to attend complained that public transportation had failed, with buses that never arrived.
因骗子译员引发的全国性尴尬处境，只是政府在悼念仪式的组织和管理过程中似乎出现的诸多差错之一。这一差错让人们更加觉得，悼念仪式是曼德拉上周去世之后在匆忙之间草草就绪的。许多曾打算参加仪式的南非人抱怨说，公共交通陷于瘫痪，公交车根本等不来。
The aftermath of Mr. Mandela’s death was also befouled by news reports on Wednesday that burglars had broken into the Cape Town home of another revered figure in South Africa’s antiapartheid struggle, the Nobel laureate Desmond M. Tutu. The burglary took place while he was attending the memorial service, according to the newspaper Cape Times.
曼德拉的身后事还因周三的一些新闻报道而蒙羞，报道称，盗贼闯入了另一名受人尊敬的南非反种族隔离斗士、诺贝尔奖(Nobel)获得者德斯蒙德·M·图图(Desmond M. Tutu)位于开普敦的家。据《开普敦时报》(Cape Times)报道，窃案发生之时，图图正在参加悼念仪式。
Mr. Druchen’s statement punched many holes in the sign-language interpreter’s credibility.
德鲁琛在声明中指出了前述手语译员的诸多漏洞。
He did not, for instance, use the established signs for Mr. Mandela or President Jacob Zuma. His hand shapes were meaningless. He failed to use facial expressions, head movement, shoulder-raising or other body language considered integral elements of signing.
比如说，他没有使用指称曼德拉或雅各布·祖玛(Jacob Zuma)总统的特定手势。他的手势毫无意义。他翻译时没有使用面部表情、头部动作、耸肩或其他身体语言，这些都被认为是手语的固有元素。