Indy lives.
“印第”还活着。
Walt Disney Studios on Tuesday said that it would restart the “Indiana Jones” movie franchise, with Steven Spielberg again in the director’s chair and Harrison Ford reprising the title role. The fifth film in the adventure series will arrive in theaters on July 19, 2019.
沃尔特·迪士尼公司周二宣布，它将重启“印第安纳·琼斯”(Indiana Jones)系列电影，由史蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)再度担任导演，哈里森·福特(Harrison Ford)再度饰演片名角色。这个冒险系列的第五部影片将在2019年7月19日上映。
In making the announcement, Alan F. Horn, Disney’s film chairman, called Indiana Jones “one of the greatest heroes in cinematic history.” Details about the plot, casting or title were not made available.
迪士尼影业的主席艾伦·F·霍恩(Alan F. Horn)在宣布这个决定时说，印第安纳·琼斯是“电影史上最伟大的英雄之一”。影片的情节、选角和片名等细节尚未公布。
Disney gained rights to the whip-wielding archaeologist with its $4 billion acquisition of Lucasfilm in 2012. Restarting that boutique studio’s “Star Wars” series was a priority. But Disney — noticing renewed moviegoer interest in movie properties from the 1980s and 1990s, with Universal’s monster hit “Jurassic World” as Exhibit A — has now turned its focus to a resuscitation of the “Indiana Jones” brand.
2012年，迪士尼花40亿美元，从卢卡斯电影(Lucasfilm)手中获得了琼斯这位挥舞皮鞭的考古学家的各项权利。虽说重启这家精品制片公司旗下的《星球大战》系列是原本最优先的任务，但迪士尼公司注意到，观影者对那些80年代到90年代的影片重新产生了兴趣，比如环球影业的怪物巨片《侏罗纪世界》(Jurassic World)就是最好的证据，于是，迪士尼就把重点转移到重启“印第安纳·琼斯”品牌上来。
Kathleen Kennedy, the president of Lucasfilm, will serve as a producer of the new “Indiana Jones” movie, along with her husband, Frank Marshall. George Lucas, who had writing and producing credits on the first four “Indiana Jones” movies, is not expected to be involved with the new one.
卢卡斯电影的总裁凯瑟琳·肯尼迪(Kathleen Kennedy)将与丈夫弗兰克·马歇尔(Frank Marshall)一起担任新的印第安纳·琼斯影片的制片。为前四部印第安纳·琼斯影片担任编剧和制片的乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)预计不会参与到新片中来。
Indy and his pals have taken in roughly $2 billion at the global box office since their arrival in 1981, sold billions of dollars in related merchandise, spawned rides at Disney theme parks and inspired spinoff TV series. But the last film, “Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,” which was released by Paramount in 2008, was considered a misfire by many fans, with one of Mr. Lucas’s ideas — having Mr. Ford hide in an old refrigerator during a nuclear blast — mocked mercilessly online.
“印第”和他的朋友们自从1981年登录影院以来，已经在全球获得了大约20亿美元的票房收入，并且售出了数十亿美元的相关周边产品，成了迪士尼主题乐园的游乐项目，并催生出若干电视衍生剧。但是2008年由派拉蒙(Paramount)发行的上一部电影《夺宝奇兵4》(Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull)被很多影迷视为失败之作。其中让哈里森·福特藏在一台旧冰箱里逃过核爆炸这个点子是卢卡斯出的，在网上遭到了无情的嘲笑。