Just before Labor Day in 2011, Toni Kirkpatrick, an editor at Thomas Dunne Books, an imprint of St. Martin’s Press, picked up her phone and called an unfamiliar number with a Southern California area code. She was hoping to deliver good news to a man named Alaric Hunt, the newest winner of a debut-detective-novel writing contest, jointly sponsored by Minotaur Books (another St. Martin’s imprint) and the Private Eye Writers of America. The contest has a good track record — a past winner, Michael Koryta, a 21-year-old phenom, has since published 10 successful thrillers — and it also comes with a substantial prize: a $10,000 advance and a guaranteed publishing contract for the book that has been submitted.
在2011年劳动节（每个九月的第一个星期一——译注）的前一天，圣马丁出版集团旗下的托马斯·邓恩出版社的编辑托妮·柯克派特里克(Toni Kirkpatrick)拿起电话，拨了一个南加州的陌生号码。在圣马丁旗下另一家名为米诺陶的出版社和美国私家侦探文学公会联合举办的侦探小说新人写作竞赛中，一位名叫阿拉里克·杭特(Alaric Hunt)的作家拔得头筹。柯克派特里克正要打电话告知他这个好消息。这个写作竞赛享有不错的声誉：曾经的头奖得主包括一位名叫迈克尔·科里塔(Michael Koryta)的文学天才。自从21岁得奖之后，他又出版了十本成功的惊悚小说。竞赛的奖品也很诱人：得奖作品会保证得到一个出版合约，而作者会得到一万美金的稿酬预付款。
S. J. Rozan, the author of award-winning private-detective novels, served as a judge on behalf of the Private Eye Writers association, and she recommended Hunt’s submission to Kirkpatrick. “The voice was new,” Rozan told me. “It wasn’t the same wisecracking self-deprecating tone you see with a lot of private-eye books. The characters seemed real.” Kirkpatrick was similarly impressed. “The manuscript felt very accomplished,” she said. “He clearly knew how to tell a story. The language and dialogue were fantastic.”
曾多次获奖的侦探小说家S.J.罗珊(S. J. Rozan)是私家侦探文学公会委派的竞赛评奖裁判。是她把杭特的投稿作品推荐给了柯克派特里克。罗珊告诉我说，作品的叙事声音让人耳目一新：“跟很多妙语连珠、刻意自我贬损的侦探小说叙事语气完全不一样。这本书里的人物让人觉得非常真实。”柯克派特里克同样被作品打动了：“手稿的作者显然经验丰富，”她说：“他知道怎么讲故事。语言和对话都很出色。”
Beyond that, though, all either of them knew about Alaric Hunt was that he had submitted a manuscript along with a Southern California phone number. So when a woman answered the phone, Kirkpatrick asked if she could speak to Alaric.
除此之外，两位女士对阿拉里克 ·杭特唯一的了解就是他的手稿和随之附上的一个南加州的电话号码。所以当一位女性接听电话时，柯克派特里克问是否可以和阿拉里克·杭特说话。
“He’s not available. He’s in an institution.” The woman on the phone was Hunt’s first cousin, Jade Reed. She had mailed the manuscript to Minotaur on his behalf.
“他不在家。他呆在一个公共机构里。”接听电话的是杭特的表妹，嘉德·里德(Jade Reed)。杭特托她把手稿寄给了米诺陶出版社。
“Like a prison?” Kirkpatrick asked.
“你的意思是监狱？” 柯克派特里克问道。
“Yes.”
“没错。”
“Will he be out soon?”
“他会很快出来吗？”
Reed paused. “Well, he’s there indefinitely.”
里德停顿了一下：“呃，他服的是无期徒刑。”
Before this phone call, it had never occurred to Kirkpatrick that her contest winner might have spent the past 25 years in prison, where he’s serving a life sentence for murder.
在打电话之前，柯克派特里克怎么也没有想到竞赛的头奖得主因为谋杀被判了无期徒刑，已经在监狱里关了25年。
Alaric Hunt turned 44 in September. He last saw the outside world at 19. He works every day at the prison library in a maximum-security facility in Bishopville, S.C., passing out the same five magazines and newspapers to the same inmates who chose the library over some other activity. He discovered his favorite writer, Hemingway, at a library like this one, in a different prison. He found the Greek and the Roman philosophers there too. He rediscovered the science-fiction masters who wowed him as a boy and spurred him to write his own stories. And, one Friday three years ago, he found the listing for the contest that would change his life.
去年9月阿拉里克·杭特度过了他44岁的生日。19岁那年进监狱后，他就再也没有接触过外面的世界。现在他每天都在位于南卡罗莱纳州毕舍普维尔的一处最高安全等级的监狱图书馆里值班，把同样的五份杂志和报纸分发给来图书馆消磨时间的狱友。在他此前服刑的另一间监狱的图书馆里，他发现了海明威的作品，后者成了他最喜欢的作家。他还阅读了古希腊罗马哲学家的著作，并重读了在孩童时期就为之惊叹的科幻大师们的作品。正是这些书籍激发起他的写作欲望。三年前的一个周五，他发现了即将改变他人生的写作竞赛的广告。
Before he entered the Minotaur contest, Hunt wrote short stories but had no luck in publishing them. He had never written a private-eye tale before. He stopped submitting stories altogether in 2001, because he ran out of money for postage. But then he stumbled across a 2007 edition of Writer’s Market, listing Minotaur’s contest for the best unpublished private-detective novel. There was no entry fee, and the prize money was enticing. He could pay off debts. He could buy his older brother a television set. The contest could mean a different way forward for him.
参加竞赛前，杭特写过一些短篇小说，但是没能出版。他从来没有写过私人侦探这个题材。因为没有钱付邮费，他在2001年的时候停止了一切投稿。后来他碰巧翻到了一本2007年那期的《作家市场》(Writer’s Market)，上面刊登了米诺陶为新作家举办的私人侦探小说竞赛。竞赛不收取费用，奖金也很诱人。如果得奖的话，可以把旧债还清，再给哥哥买个电视机。竞赛没准还能改变他以后的人生。
He took five months to write the first draft of his book, titled “Cuts Through Bone,” in longhand (and another four months for a rewrite), carving out bits of writing time between the morning, noon and night counts. He sketched out a story set in New York City, a place he had never visited, and he dreamed up an odd-couple dynamic between Rachel Vasquez, a street-smart teenage operative working for a middle-aged, middle-class detective named Clayton Guthrie. The manuscript’s main case centers on the murder of a college woman whose boyfriend, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan, is wrongfully accused of the crime.
小说题为《刻骨之痕》。他利用早中晚点名的间隙时间，花了五个月写完了第一稿，并用了四个月时间修改。小说的故事发生在他从来没有去过的纽约市，中心人物是一对奇怪的组合——少女蕾切尔·瓦斯奎兹(Rachel Vasquez)和来自中产阶层的中年侦探克雷登·古瑟利(Clayton Guthrie )——前者是后者的精明眼线。手稿的主要案情围绕着一位被谋杀的女大学生，而她从阿富汗退役回来的男友被错认为凶手。
He assembled the other elements of his novel from piecemeal glances of the outside world. He took cues for his version of New York, for example, from “Law and Order” episodes; a photocopy of a 1916 map of the boroughs; Berenice Abbott’s “Changing New York”; and novels he read set in the city. For research on detective fiction, he read “The Long Goodbye,” by Raymond Chandler, as well as some crime novels by Ed McBain. He later told me he considers Michael Connelly to be the “best crime writer working today.” He discovered and read “The Maltese Falcon,” by Dashiell Hammett, only last year.
小说中别的素材来自杭特对外界了解的零星印象。例如，他依据电视剧《法律和秩序》(Law and Order)、一张1916年纽约各区地图的影印件、贝伦尼斯·阿博特(Berenice Abbott)的摄影集《变化的纽约》(Changing New York)以及他读过的以纽约为背景的小说来构造自己笔下的纽约城。至于对侦探小说这个题材的研究，他读了雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)的《漫长的告别》(The Long Goodbye)和艾德·麦克贝恩(Ed McBain)的一些犯罪小说。在采访中，他告诉我，他认为迈克尔·康纳利(Michael Connelly)是“现今最出色的犯罪小说家”。直到去年，他才读到了达许·哈米特(Dashiell Hammett)的《马耳他之鹰》(The Maltese Falcon)。
The last time Hunt had a visitor in prison was in 2006, when his aunt and her oldest daughter flew from their homes in San Diego to see him. He was clean-shaven then, his face hardened by so many years inside. For much of the past year, he sported a large, bushy mustache that drew attention away from hawkish cheekbones and hooded hazel eyes, but he shaved it off for his most recent prison photo. Hunt has been incarcerated since 1988 for murder, arson, robbery and other charges. He won’t be eligible for parole for five more years.
最近一次有人来探监已经是2006年了。那次杭特的姑妈和她的大女儿从她们居住的圣地亚哥飞来看望他。当时杭特没有蓄须，多年的监禁使他的面容看上去冷峻坚硬。在去年的大半年时间，杭特留起了一大把浓密的胡须，似乎在转移人们对他的坚毅颧骨和有着厚重上眼皮的栗色眼睛的注意力。杭特的监狱近照显示他剃掉了胡须。他于1988年由于谋杀、纵火、抢劫和别的指控入狱。他在5年后可以申请保释出狱。
South Carolina makes it exceedingly difficult for outsiders to visit inmates in the state’s prison system. Only friends and relatives who knew the inmate before his or her incarceration are approved for visitation. Face-to-face interviews by journalists and taking photographs of inmates are no longer permitted, according to the state corrections-department website, “so as not to glamorize the crimes of the offenders, and not to revictimize the victims and their family members.” In addition, South Carolina has one of the most dangerous prison systems in the country, rife with riots and in dire need of renovations that an underfinanced state budget cannot afford.
南卡罗莱纳州的法规使外人很难探视到囚禁在该州监狱系统中的犯人。只有犯人在入狱之前认识的朋友和亲属才能得到探监的批准。据这个州的管教部门的网站，记者不再被允许对犯人进行面访和拍照，“以防对罪犯的罪行加以渲染，对受害人和他们的家人造成再次伤害。”此外，南卡罗莱纳州监狱系统的危险程度在全美榜上有名，骚动不断，迫切需要的改革却因为预算经费不足而停滞不前。
When I first contacted Hunt by mail last spring, his reply warned that he is “constitutionally sour, rarely [having] a good thing to say about anything.” Even his fellow inmates, he told me, consider him abrasive. But he likes writing and receiving mail. His subsequent letters to me often stretched to several thousand words.
去年春天我第一次通过邮件和杭特联系时，他回复我说自己是“根深蒂固的坏脾气，对任何事情都没有好话”。他告诉我，连他的狱友都觉得他说话伤人。但是他喜欢写邮件，喜欢通信。他后来给我的回信常常有几千字之多。
His correspondence often blistered with bitter, caustic humor. “Coming square up against the wall of talking about myself gives me the sick feeling of offering a weighty pronouncement by the jailhouse philosopher.” On the phone, he answered questions in a Southern-inflected baritone, but he preferred the pen, he told me. He had more time to deliberate. One wrong move, one ill-considered statement could set him back another decade.
他的回信经常充斥着尖酸刻薄的幽默。“对你坦诚剖白让我感到恶心，就好像自己是个讲述着深刻人生洞察的监狱哲学家。”在电话里，他是个说着南方口音的男中音。但是他告诉我他偏好笔谈。他有更多的时间斟词酌句。犯一个错误，说错一句话，都可能让他在监狱里多呆十年。
In one letter, he wrote: “I have no trophies to polish, but don’t be fooled. I do have a high opinion of myself; I just regard it with suspicion. At the moment, I’m afraid to choke on wistfulness. That has been the fate of many a prisoner. I pass them each day, still shuffling and muttering with their hands full of hope.”
在一封信里，他写道：“我没有什么胜利成果可以沾沾自喜。但是不要误解。我对自己自视甚高，只不过我不确认是否有理由这么评价自己。现在，我害怕自己对未来的希望过大。这是不少犯人的心态。每天我都会遇见他们，由于充满希望而不能安于现状。”
Minotaur wasn’t fazed upon learning the news of Hunt’s imprisonment — if anything, Kirkpatrick was intrigued. “One of the beautiful things about the competition is that it’s open to anyone,” she told me. And because South Carolina repealed its version of the “Son of Sam” law in 2000, Hunt is free to publish and profit from his work. “He’s allowed to write,” Andrew Martin, the Minotaur publisher, said. “He’s allowed to submit. No one said he’s not allowed to publish. He’s not writing a memoir of the crimes and trying to make money off that.” John Lutz, a crime writer who read and blurbed an advance copy of “Cuts Through Bone,” thought Hunt’s situation “might even lend credibility. He’s writing about crimes and criminals, and that’s what got him where he is, in a manner of speaking.” Rozan went a step further, saying: “If I were in Alaric’s position, I might find a P.I. character easy to identify with. He can help other people, but he can’t do anything for himself.”
米诺陶出版社对杭特的服刑犯身份处之泰然，并未对奖项处置做出任何改变。柯克派特里克对杭特的身世产生了好奇。她告诉我说，“本次竞赛最棒之处之一是任何人都能参赛” 。由于南卡罗莱纳州在2000年撤销了该州的“山姆之子法案” （该法案规定罪犯不得以盈利目的出版描述自己犯罪的书或回忆录——译注），杭特有权利出版并以此盈利。安德鲁·马丁(Andrew Martin)是米诺陶的出版人，他说杭特有写作的自由。“他也有投稿的自由。没有人说他不能出版著作。再说，他并没有写自己犯罪经历来赚钱发财。”犯罪小说家约翰·路茨(John Lutz)看了《刻骨之痕》的样书，并为之写了推介。他认为杭特的处境会使他的作品更加让人信服：“他写的是犯罪活动和罪犯，而这些正是他为什么会入狱的原因。” 罗珊想到的更深一步：“如果我是阿拉里克的话，我觉得自己会对私人侦探这一身份产生某种认同感。他可以帮助别人，但是却不能改变自己的命运。”
Kirkpatrick did wonder initially how Hunt, cut off from a writer’s usual resources, would be able to respond to edits on his manuscript. Prison rules and regulations, along with mailing delays, made an already lengthy publishing process more fraught over the course of the next two years. Hunt and Kirkpatrick worked together by letter, trading edits off a single copy of the manuscript. That same copy was later marked up further by the book’s copy editors, so one page could have three people’s handwriting on it. Despite these difficulties, Minotaur felt the book was ready for publication by the production deadline. They released “Cuts Through Bone” in May to a mixed but muted response; Kirkus Reviews praised it as a “down and dirty debut” while Publishers Weekly criticized it for having an “unremarkable plot” and “overblown prose.” Kirkpatrick said she held out hope that there would be more Vasquez and Guthrie books from Hunt.
柯克派特里克一开始确实担心杭特将如何回应对他稿件做出的编辑修改——毕竟他没有别的作家都通常拥有的资源。监狱的规章条例，邮寄的延误，让本来就漫长的两年的出版过程更加雪上加霜。杭特和柯克派特里克通过信件开始了编辑工作。他们在一份手稿上交换修改意见。同一份稿件之后又会被送到校对编辑们的手里。所以同一页稿件上常常会有三个人的笔迹。尽管有种种困难，米诺陶认为作品在指定的出版日期前可以付梓。《刻骨之痕》在去年5月出版后，并没有得到太大的反响，评价也褒贬不一。《科克斯书评》(Kirkus Reviews)赞扬它是一部“苦心经营，不遗余力的处女作”。但是《出版者周刊》(Publishers Weekly)却批评说它“情节平庸，文字造作”。柯克派特里克说她希望杭特会写出更多以瓦斯奎兹和古瑟利为主角的作品。
It’s true that the finished version of “Cuts Through Bone” adheres to certain private-detective conventions. A young woman walks through the door with a tantalizing case, and Chandler-esque metaphors dot the narrative (“elderly buildings holding aristocratic chins”). The word “fedora” is mentioned more than a dozen times.
《刻骨之痕》的最终稿确实落入了一些私人侦探小说的常用套路：一位年轻的女性拜访侦探，希望他破解一个谜案。小说的叙事充满了钱德勒式的暗喻（“上了岁数的建筑禁收着它们不可一世的下巴。”）。“软毡帽”这个词在小说里出现了不下12次。
What Hunt executes well, though, is the character of Vasquez, her sibling tensions and her existential struggles. Her Puerto Rican immigrant family wants her to go to college and leave the projects of Henry Street. Emotions boil over in a physical fight with her brother Miguel. After their bloody brawl, he berates her over her future: “Me and Indio figured it out a long time ago. . . . You don’t get the looks we get. Doors swing open for you instead of slamming shut. That’s how the world works.”
小说的出彩之处是瓦斯奎兹这个人物塑造，她与哥哥的之间的紧张关系以及她为了生存所做的斗争。她来自一个波多黎各移民家庭，家人希望她能够上大学，离开亨利街的侦探事务所。在小说的一个场景中，情感的冲突达到了高潮，她和哥哥米盖尔(Miguel)大打出手，甚至见血。过后，哥哥对瓦斯奎兹的未来横加指责：“我和殷迪欧(Indio)早就发现了……人们看不起我们，可是对你的态度不一样。他们不会把你拒之门外，却对你敞开大门，欢迎有加。世道就是这样。”
Hunt identified strongly with this scene, and the confrontation between siblings about a wasted future was twice as long in the original manuscript as in the finished book. Hunt and Kirkpatrick went back and forth, both equally stubborn, but eventually he relented. He did as she asked, paring down the brother-sister conflict. Still, talking about the scene with me, he described it as “the novel of the story.”
杭特对这一场景认同深刻。在原稿中，描写兄妹这场有关未来的争吵用了终稿两倍的篇幅。杭特和柯克派特里克书信来往好几个回合，交换对这部分的修改意见。两个人都很固执。最后杭特做出了让步。他听从了柯克派特里克的意见，删减了这一兄妹争吵场景。不过，在跟我谈到这一部分时，他说这是“整个小说的精髓所在”。
The crimes in “Cuts Through Bone” bear no resemblance to the ones that landed Hunt a life sentence, but when you compare the story he has lived with the one he has written, there are clearly some resonances, particularly around the theme of troubled sibling relationships. Hunt has a brother, Jason, who is 13 months older than Alaric and also in prison. As boys, Alaric, smaller and more fine-boned, found refuge in reading, writing, drawing and playing Dungeons and Dragons, while the taller, burlier Jason preferred music, playing acoustic and electric guitar. Not long after graduating from high school, Alaric tested at an I.Q. of 137. Jason dropped out in the 10th grade.
杭特并没有基于自己所犯下的罪行来构想小说里的犯罪情节。但是小说的故事倒是和他本人的经历有几分相像——尤其是复杂的兄弟姐妹关系。杭特有个年长他13个月的哥哥，名叫杰森(Jason)，也在监狱服刑。在孩童时期，体格瘦小的阿拉里克喜欢书籍、写作、画画和《龙与地堡》(Dungeons and Dragons)桌游。而高大健硕的杰森却更喜欢音乐、玩木吉他和电吉他。中学毕业不久，阿拉里克在一次测试中测得了137的智商，而杰森上到10年级就退学了。
They led troubled lives. Their mother, Bonnie, divorced their father when the boys were toddlers. She was four months into her third marriage when in December 1983 she died in a head-on collision, and her death ended years of her physical and emotional abuse. She once beat Alaric with a baseball bat. She inflicted worse damage on Jason. “My mother taught me there was no such thing as mercy,” Alaric told me. They stayed with their new stepfather in Kentucky to finish school, but, according to Alaric, his form of parenting involved supplying the boys with drugs and draining their inheritance, worth at least six figures from insurance money paid out after their mother’s death.
他们的早年生活异常艰辛。他们的母亲邦妮(Bonnie)在兄弟俩蹒跚学步时就和丈夫离了婚。1983年12月，在她第三次结婚之后四个月，她死于一场正面撞击的交通事故。这场事故结束了她多年来对兄弟俩身心的摧残。有一次她用一个棒球棒揍了阿拉里克一顿。杰森受到过更严重的伤害。“母亲让我认识到怜悯宽容是不存在的，”阿拉里克告诉我。母亲死后，兄弟俩和他们的新继父一起住在肯塔基，以继续完成学业。但是，阿拉里克告诉我说，继父的管教方式就是给孩子们提供毒品，从他们手里榨取遗产。据阿拉里克说，母亲死后，保险公司的赔偿至少有六位数。
Eventually reunited with their biological father, the brothers worked construction jobs around South Carolina. One of them was on Cochran Road, about two miles north of Clemson University. When Richard Hunt kicked his sons out of his trailer in early 1988, according to court records, Jason grew increasingly angry. He wanted to go to music school in Southern California but had saved only $1,400. Alaric would do anything to help his brother. Even if it ended up destroying three lives.
兄弟俩最终和他们的生父团聚。之后他们俩一起在南卡罗莱纳州的建筑工地上打工。其中一处工地是在离克莱门森大学大约两英里的科克伦路上。据法庭记录，理查德·杭特在1988年初把他两个儿子赶出他所住的拖车后，杰森变得越来越愤怒。他想去南加州上音乐学校，但是只攒下了1,400美元。阿拉里克为了哥哥可以两肋插刀，到头来却毁了三个人的一生。
Their target was Clemson Jewelers on College Avenue, just up the street from the university. They thought that if they set fires to two places two miles away on either side of the jewelers, the police and firefighters would be so busy with the blazes that they wouldn’t notice if a couple of guys broke in and made off with “some highly valuable diamonds that two hillbilly ignoramuses decided would be handy, portable and salable,” as Alaric describes it. So around 2 a.m. on Memorial Day in 1988, the brothers parked a few feet away from a 12-unit apartment building on Cochran Road called Forest Hills. Jason spread a can’s worth of gasoline around the outside, lit a match and sprinted back to the dark Nissan truck, where Alaric waited. Their next stop was the Fort Hill Mansion, one of the original Clemson buildings. The fire there curdled paintings, singed the wallpaper, ruined a grand piano and permanently grafted table lace onto a coffee table. Only an out-of-date sprinkler system saved the landmark mansion from burning to the ground.
他们的目标是大学附近大学街上的克莱门森珠宝店。他们的想法是，如果在离珠宝店两侧各两英里远的地方纵火，那么警察和消防队员会在两处忙着灭火，而无暇顾及两个劫匪闯入珠宝店，偷走——用阿拉里克的话来说——“一些昂贵的钻石。我们两个无知的乡巴佬认为这些钻石又好拿，又好运输，还好卖。”在1988年阵亡将士纪念日那天，兄弟俩把车停到了离科克伦路上一处叫“森林山”的12单元公寓楼几英尺远的地方。阿拉里克等在他们的尼桑卡车里，杰森把一罐汽油洒在公寓楼外围，点燃一根火柴后跑回了车里。他们的下一处纵火点是福特山大厦。这是克莱门森的历史最悠久的建筑之一。大火使建筑里装饰的油画颜料被烧化，墙纸被烧焦，一架三角钢琴被烧毁，一个咖啡桌的台布花边被彻底地烤糊粘到了台面上。幸亏一个老旧的火警洒水系统起了作用，这个地标性建筑才幸免毁于一炬。
As they predicted, their robbery slipped past the attention of law enforcement while both blazes burned. Firefighters needed three hours to put out the flames and rescue 15 summer students from the gutted apartment building. Less than 12 hours later, the body of Joyce Austin, a 23-year-old Clemson graduate student, was found in what remained of Forest Hills. She died of smoke inhalation, unable to escape because a section of drywall fell on top of her as the fire raged.
就像他们预料的那样，两处大火使他们的抢劫躲过了执法人员的耳目。消防人员花了三个小时才扑灭大火，并从烧毁的公寓楼里救出了15名暑期入学的大学生。不到12小时后，23岁的克莱门森大学研究生乔伊斯·奥斯汀(Joyce Austin)的尸体在公寓楼废墟中被发现。她死于吸入过多烟雾。当大火泛滥时，一段干板墙倒下压住了她，使其无法逃生。
On July 14, the police arrested Alaric and Jason for Joyce Austin’s murder, and for robbery, conspiracy and several counts of arson. The “high-quality diamonds” they took turned out to be women’s rings worth $200 in total.
1988年7月14日，警方逮捕了阿拉里克和杰森。他们被控谋杀了乔伊斯·奥斯汀、抢劫、密谋以及多处纵火。他们偷的那些“昂贵的钻石”是一些总值不过200美元的女式戒指。
The legal system worked fast. The prosecutor announced he would seek the death penalty. Jason’s trial was set for Oct. 10. Alaric’s was never scheduled. On Oct. 11, they pleaded guilty to all charges. The judge sentenced them both to life in prison with no parole for at least 30 years. At the time of the verdict, Alaric’s lawyer characterized the long imprisonment as a good outcome: “Lawyers always want to win. In a case where the stakes are death, and your client is alive, I believe you’ve won.” Alaric and Jason served seven years of their prison terms together, but were separated in 2003, after Jason was accused of trying to escape. Now more than a hundred miles apart, the brothers communicate sporadically by letter, a privilege reinstated just last year.
法律系统行动快速。检控官宣布，他会要求判决两人死刑。杰森的审判被定于10月10日，阿拉里克审判并没有排期。10月11日，兄弟俩承认所有指控犯罪事实。法官判处他们终身监禁，30年之内不得保释。在裁决宣布时，阿拉里克的律师认为这是一个不错的结果：“律师们总是想赢。在有命案的情况下，你的客户却没有被判死刑，我认为这就是胜利。”阿拉里克和杰森在同一个监狱里呆了7年，在2003年杰森被控试图越狱后被分开。现在两人的监狱相隔100多英里。直到去年他们才得以重新享有偶尔通信的自由。
“What haunts me is not seeing beyond what I wanted and casually risking others,” Alaric says now. “That’s the act that defines me; something I didn’t do, but failed to do: consider. I killed Joyce Austin, and I killed my brother and myself. There’s a hole there that can’t ever fill up.”
现在想起往事，阿拉里克这样说道：“我目光短浅，只是看到眼前的欲望而不负责任地危害了他人。这让我懊悔不已。我的罪行定义了我的人生。我没有思考，这是我的失败 。我害死了乔伊斯·奥斯汀，害死了我哥哥和我自己。我造成的伤害永远无法弥补。”
Frances Austin is a retired school librarian living in a suburb of Washington. She was surprised to get a call from a reporter 25 years after her daughter’s death. Over a 45-minute conversation, she told me several times that she was “thrown for a loop” that her daughter’s killer had published a novel, which she hadn’t known about until my call. She hadn’t thought of Joyce’s death for quite some time. Not because she didn’t love her daughter, her only child, but because she accepted what happened long ago. “It hasn’t been an easy road for me, though I’ve done the best I could,” she said. “I don’t go around being pitiful. I don’t want to be morbid.”
弗朗西斯·奥斯汀(Frances Austin)是华盛顿郊区一所学校图书馆的退休管理员。女儿死后25年，她非常吃惊地接到了一位记者的电话。在我给她打电话之前，她并不知晓害死女儿的凶手出版了一本小说。在接下来的45分钟对话里，她好几次用了“瞠目结舌”来形容自己的感受。很长一段时间以来，她都没有想起女儿的死亡这个事实。这并不是因为她不爱自己唯一的孩子，而是因为她很早之前就接受了现实。“这对我来说并不容易，但是我已经尽力了，”她说，“我不想让别人可怜我，我也不想沉溺于哀痛不能自拔。”
Sometimes Austin wonders what her daughter would have been like if she lived. Joyce loved cooking and would have most likely finished her master’s degree in food science. She was likable, extroverted, attractive and, like her mother, goal oriented. After her daughter’s death, she endowed the Joyce V. Austin Scholarship Fund at South Carolina State University, the undergraduate alma mater for her and her daughter. “I just didn’t want her to die,” she said. “I had to do something.”
有时，奥斯汀会想，如果女儿没有去世，她会成为什么样的人。乔伊斯喜欢烹饪。如果还活着的话，她十有八九会拿到食品科学的硕士学位。她讨人喜欢，外向漂亮。像母亲一样，有明确的目标。女儿去世后，她在南卡罗莱纳州立大学设立了“乔伊斯·V·奥斯汀奖学金基金会”。她和女儿都从这所大学本科毕业。“我不想让她就这么死去，”她说，“我得做点什么。”
Upon learning of Hunt’s novel, Austin’s voice vibrated with anger. “He caused my daughter’s death, and now he’s writing a book about it.” I assured her the book was not her daughter’s story. “I can’t believe this,” she repeated several times. “I heard you. I wrote down what you said.”
听说杭特出版了小说，奥斯汀的声音由于气愤而颤抖起来：“他害死了我女儿不够，现在还要把这件事写出来。”我让她放心，小说并没有涉及她的女儿。“这太出乎意料了，”她这样重复了好几遍，“我听到你说的了，我把你说的话都写了下来。”
More silence passed. “This is America,” Austin said finally. “I can’t prevent him. Can’t even try. But knowing this creates a lot of emotions I don’t want to deal with.” Before hanging up, she said she would not buy a copy of “Cuts Through Bone.” She had another notion, though: “I may browse through it in a public library.”
一阵更长的沉默过后，奥斯汀最后说道：“这就是美国。我不能阻止他出书，连尝试都不行。知道这件事让我心里五味杂陈，而这些情感是我不想去面对的。”我们通话结束之前，她说她不会去买《刻骨之痕》。但是她却有另外的想法：“我可能会去一个公共图书馆看看这书写了什么。”