Abroad in America, written by a Times foreign correspondent, approaches the election in much the same way as we would events overseas, deciphering the action for a global audience. Here is a guide to the Republican National Convention, which starts in Cleveland on Monday — a milestone in the race for the United States presidency, which will be decided in the Nov. 8 election.
由《纽约时报》驻外记者写的“在国外处身美国”(Abroad in America)栏目用与我们报道海外事件大致一样的方式来报道美国的大选，向全球读者解读竞选活动。下面是周一在克利夫兰开幕的共和党全国代表大会指南。这是美国总统竞选活动的一个里程碑，谁出任下任总统将由11月8日的投票结果决定。
What’s happening?
代表大会上将发生什么？
Republican delegates are converging on the lakeside city of Cleveland for the Republican National Convention. Their task is to nominate the party’s presidential candidate for the election in November. There is a single contender: Donald J. Trump, the property tycoon, reality TV star and — after a successful primary campaign that upended American politics this spring — the man poised to take the nomination.
共和党代表们正在湖滨城市克利夫兰汇集，出席共和党全国代表大会。他们的任务是提名本党参加11月大选的总统候选人。只有一位竞争者：地产大亨、电视真人秀明星唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，他在今年春季颠覆了美国政治的初选中成功胜出，对成为提名人有充分的准备。
Since late May, Mr. Trump has controlled a majority of the 2,472 delegate votes. If he is nominated as expected by the end of this week’s convention — four days of speeches, political events and likely street protests — he will emerge as the Republican Party’s first presidential candidate since 1940 whose principal qualification is his experience as a corporate executive.
自5月下旬起，特朗普已控制了2472名代表票中的大多数。如果他按照预期在本周的代表大会结束前获得提名，他将成为共和党自1940年以来的首位以企业管理经验为主要资格的总统候选人。代表大会为期四天，其间将有不少演讲、政治事件，以及可能的街头抗议活动。
Is the outcome in doubt?
大会结果有疑问吗？
Not really, although there could be complications. In a normal year, conventions are pageants of carefully choreographed political theater in which the party seeks to heal the wounds of the primary election, unite behind a candidate and galvanize its base for the larger battle of the presidential election.
不大可能，虽然可能会出现复杂情况。在正常的年份，代表大会是精心编排的政治舞台表演，党通过代表大会寻求弥合初选活动的创伤，把全党团结在候选人周围，为总统竞举的大战役激发本党的大本营。
This is not a normal year. Late last week, Mr. Trump’s opponents in the so-called Never Trump movement tried to amend party rules to allow delegates already pledged to a candidate according to the primary results to vote according to their consciences. The last-ditch effort failed — it could have effectively disenfranchised the 14 million people who voted for Mr. Trump — but was seen as a sign of the divisions that his unconventional candidacy has driven down the center of the Republican Party.
今年不是一个正常的年份。上周晚些时候，反对特朗普的所谓“永不特朗普”运动试图修改党章，允许根据初选结果已经承诺投票某名候选人的代表，根据他们的良心投票。但这一最后的努力失败了，那样做会相当于剥夺了把票投给特朗普的1400万公民的选举权，但该努力被看作是特朗普非常规候选人的身份在共和党中间制造分裂的一个标志。
The Republican establishment is uncomfortable with Mr. Trump’s candidacy, accusing him of disregarding Republican orthodoxy and treating the party as little more than vehicle for his personal ambitions. Several leading Republicans — including former President George W. Bush and his father, George Bush, also a former president — are not coming to Cleveland. Other party members have openly snubbed Mr. Trump, announcing that they have other plans this week, such as going fly-fishing, or a pressing need to “mow the lawn.”
共和党的当权派对特朗普成为候选人感到不安，他们指责他置共和党正统于不顾，只是把共和党当作实现他个人野心的工具。一些主要的共和党人，包括前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)及其同样是前总统的父亲乔治·布什(George Bush)都不来克利夫兰。其他共和党人公开怠慢特朗普，宣布他们本周有其他计划，比如去飞钓、或这迫切需要“修剪草坪”。
Mr. Trump has divided big business, too. Some tech companies that have supported Republican conventions in previous years, like Apple, have pulled out of this year’s event.
特朗普也在大企业中制造了分裂。有些过去几年为共和党代表大会提供赞助的技术公司，比如苹果，没有支持今年的活动。
However, Facebook and Microsoft will provide services.
不过，Facebook和微软将为大会提供服务。
Who’s backing Mr. Trump?
谁支持特朗普？
Mr. Trump has struggled to attract many A-list celebrities to speak at the event, and the provisional lineup includes an eclectic variety of speakers including his wife, Melania; his four adult children; a female astronaut; and Pam Bondi, the Florida attorney general. One speaker, the professional golfer Natalie Gulbis, met Mr. Trump at a tournament at one of his golf courses and starred on his reality TV show “The Apprentice.” Other speakers include Willie Robertson of the television show “Duck Dynasty” and a number of actors from daytime soap operas, one of whom is a former underwear model.
特朗普一直在努力争取头等名人在代表大会上发表讲演，初步的讲演者阵容可谓兼收并蓄，包括他的妻子梅拉尼亚(Melania)、他的四个成年子女、一名女航天员，以及佛罗里达州的总检察长潘姆·邦迪(Pam Bondi)等人。还有一位发言者是职业高尔夫球手纳塔利·古尔比斯(Natalie Gulbis)，她是在特朗普拥有的高尔夫球场之一参加比赛时认识他的，她还在特朗普的真人秀节目《学徒》(The Apprentice)中担任过主角。其他讲演者包括电视节目《鸭子王朝》(Duck Dynasty)的威利·罗伯逊(Willie Robertson)，以及一批在白天肥皂剧节目中扮演角色的演员，其中一人是前内衣模特。
Survivors of the 2012 attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya, are scheduled to speak, as are several of Mr. Trump’s vanquished rivals from the primary contest, like Senator Ted Cruz and Ben Carson.
2012年驻利比亚班加西的美国领事馆被袭事件的幸存者也被安排了发言，几名在初选中被特朗普击败的对手也被安排发言，如参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和本·卡森(Ben Carson)。
Although many senior Republicans are skipping the conference, it will be hosted by Paul D. Ryan, the speaker of the House of Representatives and the highest-ranking elected Republican. Mr. Ryan has openly clashed with Mr. Trump on his most contentious proposals, but has agreed to row behind the Trump candidacy for the sake of party unity.
尽管有许多资深共和党人逃会，但代表大会将由众议院议长、共和党中级别最高的当选官员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)主持。瑞安曾在特朗普最有争议的提案上与特朗普公开发生过冲突，但他出于党内团结的缘故，同意站到支持特朗普的队伍中来。
A key last-minute addition to the speaking order is Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, whom Mr. Trump announced as his candidate for vice president on Friday. The chaotic manner of Mr. Pence’s appointment, with Mr. Trump wavering between his options until the last moment, typified his on-the-fly management style, which has so unnerved many Republican leaders. Yet the choice of Mr. Pence, a hard-line social conservative, may expand Mr. Trump’s support among the party’s Christian base.
一名在最后时刻加到发言者名单上的关键人物是印第安纳州州长麦克·潘斯(Mike Pence)，特朗普已在上周五宣布潘斯为自己的副总统候选人。潘斯被选中的方式颇为混乱，特朗普直到最后一刻仍在自己的选择之间摇摆不定，这是典型的特朗普即时管理风格，这种风格让许多共和党领导人非常不安。不过，选择强硬的社会保守派人士潘斯可扩大特朗普在共和党的基督教大本营中的支持。
Most important, Mr. Trump has the support of 1,542 pledged and unpledged delegates — more than the 1,237 required to clinch the nomination. That does not guarantee him an easy ride, though — organizers worry that refuseniks could still find a way to drag out his nomination and cast the proceedings into chaos.
最重要的是，特朗普有1542名已承诺和未承诺的代表的支持，这比获得提名所需的1237票多。但这并不能保证他能轻而易举地获得提名，大会组织者担心反对者仍可找到方法来拖延他的提名，让大会议程陷入混乱。
What about the streets outside?
大会场外的街道上呢？
The anticipated arrival of thousands of demonstrators in Cleveland, following rowdy scenes at Trump rallies in Chicago and California this year, has stoked fears of violent clashes outside Quicken Loans Arena, where the convention will be held. At least 10,000 people from a wide spectrum of groups have expressed their intention to march, including Catholic nuns, white skinheads and Westboro Baptist Church, a church from Kansas that campaigns against gay rights. Recent shootings of police officers in Texas and Louisiana have intensified worries of bloodshed.
继今年在芝加哥和加利福尼亚州的特朗普集会上出现了闹哄哄的场面之后，预计将有数千名示威者抵达克利夫兰，这让人们担心在以Quicken Loans冠名的体育馆外可能发生暴力冲突。有来自范围广泛的不同群体的至少1万人表示，他们打算游行，其中有天主教修女、白人光头党成员，以及威斯特布路浸信会的信徒，这个来自堪萨斯州的教堂专门从事反对同性恋权利的活动。最近在得克萨斯州和路易斯安那州发生的枪杀警察事件加剧了人们对流血的担忧。
The authorities in Cleveland have drafted an extra 2,500 police officers for the convention, extended the courts’ daily operating hours to 20 and cleared 1,000 beds at local jails in case of mass arrests. A range of items, including gas masks and milk bottles, have been banned from the area around the arena.
克利夫兰当局已经为代表大会额外调动了2500名警察，把法院的日常工作时间延长到20小时，腾空了当地监狱的1000张床位，已备出现大规模逮捕的情况。并在体育馆附近地区禁止了各类物品，包括防毒面具和玻璃奶瓶。
Real guns, though, are allowed: Ohio is one of several states to allow licensed gun owners to carry their weapons openly. (However, guns will not be permitted inside the convention hall, which will be secured by the Secret Service, or a small perimeter area around it.) Some news organizations have provided their staff with war-zone style training and bought stocks of protective equipment.
但仍允许人们携带真枪：俄亥俄州是几个允许有证持枪者公开携带武器的州之一。（但是在大会会场禁枪，会场和小部分周边区域将由特勤局负责保安。）一些新闻机构已经为工作人员提供了战区式训练，还买了一批防护设备。