BANGKOK — The Thai military removed all doubt about its intentions in declaring martial law earlier this week, and on Thursday officially announced that it was taking control of the government, the 12th time it has done so since 1932.
曼谷——泰国军方于本周早些时候发布的戒严令消除了人们关于其意图的最后一点疑问，并于周四正式宣布接管政府。这是1932年以来他们第12次这么做。
The newly created Peace and Order Maintaining Command, composed of the commander in chief of the army and the commanders of the Royal Thai Navy, air force and police, announced that it had suspended the Constitution — except for articles related to the monarchy, the activity of the courts, and some “independent” administrative agencies. The military said that it was acting to protect the peace and resolve the long political impasse that had brought mostly peaceful protests and counterprotests to Bangkok. It arrested the leaders of different political factions even as they were engaged in negotiations.
新成立的和平与秩序维持指挥部（Peace and Order Maintaining Command，简称POMC）由陆军司令和泰国皇家海军、空军、警察部队指挥官组成，他们宣布暂时中止实施宪法——仅保留与君主制、法庭活动和一些“独立”行政机构有关的条款。军方称，它的行动是要保卫和平，化解长期的政治僵局，而这种僵局大多时候为曼谷带来的是和平的抗议和反抗议活动。尽管各政治派别正在展开谈判，军方还是逮捕了它们的领导人。
But unless the P.O.M.C. can quickly establish a road map for return to civilian rule, it risks setting off a cycle of violence and human rights violations. The sooner the military revokes martial law, the better for Thailand. The army chief, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, imposed martial law on Tuesday and declared himself the “supreme commander” but strenuously denied that he had, in fact, carried out a coup.
然而，POMC需要迅速拿出一个恢复民治的路线图，否则可能会引发一系列暴力和侵犯人权行为。军方越早取消戒严，对泰国就越有利。陆军总司令巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)在周二实施了戒严令，并自称“最高指挥官”，但他竭力否认这样做实际上是发起政变。
The P.O.M.C.’s authority is based on Thailand’s martial law statute, which has been severely criticized for the unfettered powers it grants the military. Using it, the military asserts superiority over all civilian authority in matters of security and public order, including the power to arrest and detain people without charge for up to seven days and carry out warrantless searches.
POMC的权力依据是泰国的戒严法令，而该法令本身一直因为向军方授予了无限权力而受到批评。根据这部法律，军方在安全和公共秩序事务上比任何平民权力机构都高出一头，包括有权在没有指控的情况下实施逮捕，并处最长可达七天的拘禁，还可以进行无授权搜查。
Martial law enables the military authorities to rule by fiat, in effect suspending the human rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which Thailand is a party. The law also provides the military with immunity from any claims for compensation arising from its actions.
戒严法令让军队可以通过发布指令来实施统治，实际上等于将宪法和《公民权利和政治权利国际公约》(International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights)保障的人权搁置一旁，而泰国是后者的缔约国之一。戒严法还让军方可以不用为自己的行为担负任何赔偿责任。
The military has imposed a curfew and set strict controls on the media. This follows its actions in the first hours of martial law, when the P.O.M.C. moved to shut down TV and radio stations, and issued orders forbidding the media to issue reports “that might distort the facts, cause confusion among the public, or lead to further violence.” In addition, social media sites and users were prohibited from publishing content that “misleads the public” or “escalates the conflict” or “opposes the operation of the P.O.M.C.”
军方已经发布了宵禁令，并对媒体实施严格控制。此前，在POMC实施戒严后的第一时间，他们关闭了电视台和电台，下令禁止媒体进行“可能扭曲事实、混淆视听、或导致更多暴力”的报道。此外，社交媒体网站和用户也被禁止发布“误导公众”或“致冲突升级”或“反对POMC行动”的内容。
Initially, the P.O.M.C. had been careful to invoke only a few of its powers under the law, in order to bolster its assertion that its actions did not constitute a coup. But now it risks an internal backlash and possibly international sanctions — including from the United States, the Thai military’s main backer.
POMC一开始行事谨慎，只动用了戒严法规定的一小部分权力，以证明它的行动并非政变。然而现在它将自己置于一个内外交困的局面之中，内有遭激烈抵制的风险，外有被国际制裁的可能——制裁者包括泰国军方的主要支持者美国。
The acting prime minister, Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan, was the only political leader who escaped arrest. Mr. Niwatthamrong was already in a weak position as a caretaker leader who only recently replaced Yingluck Shinawatra, ousted earlier this month by the Constitutional Court on contested grounds.
代总理尼瓦塔隆·汶颂派讪(Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan)是唯一逃脱逮捕的政治领导人。作为看守领导人，尼瓦塔隆刚刚取代本月早些时候被宪法法院以争议性理由罢黜的英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)没几天，地位本来就不稳固。
Ms. Yingluck herself was standing in for her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, the leader of the so-called Red Shirt movement. His period in office as prime minister proved deeply divisive and was characterized by serious human rights violations; he was ousted in the last coup in 2006 and fled the country to avoid prosecution for corruption.
英拉本人则是在代她的哥哥、红衫军运动领导人他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)行事。他信任总理期间，泰国局势极为动荡，以严重的人权侵犯行为著称；他在2006年军方的上一次政变中被推翻，此后流亡到国外，以逃避腐败诉讼。
The Red Shirts, who keep winning national elections based on a constituency drawn largely from the provinces, have been at a political impasse with their rivals, the Yellow Shirts, who represent Bangkok’s more affluent population. The Yellow Shirts have been able to overthrow various Shinawatra-linked governments through a combination of military intervention and judicial and administrative maneuvers.
依靠大部分来自地方省份的选民支持，红衫军不断赢得全国大选的胜利，和对手黄衫军形成了政治僵局，后者代表的是曼谷的富裕人群。黄衫军通过军方干预和司法、行政手段多管齐下，已经将多个和西那瓦家族相关的政府推翻。
It is this conflict, largely played out in protests in Bangkok, that allowed the P.O.M.C. to justify its intervention. In the nation’s capital, troops and police officers appear to be exercising restraint. Let us hope this continues, for there is a long history of rights violations under martial law in Thailand.
正是这场主要在曼谷上演的冲突，让POMC的干预有了堂而皇之的理由。在首都的士兵和警察表现出了克制。希望这种情况能够继续下去，因为泰国在戒严期间的人权侵犯可是有着悠久的历史。
In some 30 of Thailand’s 76 provinces, martial law was already in place before Tuesday, in some cases for years. Extrajudicial executions, deaths in custody, enforced disappearances and torture have been documented under military jurisdiction. There has been almost no accountability for these violations.
泰国76省中有约30个省在周二之前就已经实施戒严，有几个省已经多年处在戒严状态。在军事管辖之下，对侵权行为的记载包括法外处决、关押期间死亡、强制失踪和刑讯逼供。在泰国，对这些侵权行为几乎不存在问责。
General Prayuth has provided little explanation for his actions this week, given that the political friction of past months was confined to Bangkok. Moreover, it’s hard to justify shutting down media outlets: There is an escalating risk of violence if the media is unable to report on the situation.
巴育将军对他在本周的行为几乎未作任何解释，虽然过去几个月里政治摩擦主要局限在曼谷。此外，关闭媒体机构的做法是很难找到合理依据的：如果媒体不能展开报道，只会令时局愈发可能朝暴力方向发展。
After a decade of misrule, the Thai people deserve greater respect for human rights, stronger institutions and more accountability. Rule by martial law is the opposite of the rule of law; it fosters an environment conducive to rights violations and should be revoked.
经过十年的混乱，泰国人民理应得到更好的人权待遇、更稳定的局势和更多的问责。军事管制与法治背道而驰；它会滋养一种有利于权利侵犯的环境，应该予以废止。