KIEL, Germany — On June 28, 1914, Kaiser Wilhelm II was preparing to indulge in a favorite pastime: racing his yacht Meteor at a regatta that is still held each year in this seafaring stronghold. 
德国基尔——1914年6月28日，德皇威廉二世正准备尽情享受他最爱的消遣活动：在这个海事重地一年一度的赛艇会上，乘他的“流星号”游艇扬帆参赛。
When he learned of the assassination in Sarajevo of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Hapsburg Empire, he hastened to Berlin. But he quickly returned to this Baltic Sea port, on which he lavished so much money and time in his frantic race to match or outdo British naval superiority.
得知哈布斯堡王朝继承人、弗朗茨·斐迪南大公(Archduke Franz Ferdinand)被刺杀的消息后，他匆忙赶回柏林。但是，他很快又回到了这个波罗的海港口，在这里投入了大量的金钱和时间，誓言要赶上甚至超过英国的海上优势。
In many ways, Kiel epitomized Germany’s rapid industrialization and militarization from 1870 to 1914, under Otto von Bismarck and then the kaiser. Numbers alone tell a story: In 1870, as Bismarck unified Germany, Kiel had around 30,000 inhabitants. By 1914, when Europe’s leaders stumbled into World War I, its population exceeded 227,000.
从很多方面来看，基尔都集中体现了德国从1870年到1914年这段时间，在奥托·冯·俾斯麦及随后的德皇领导下实现的工业化和军事化飞速发展。数据本身已能说明问题：1870年，俾斯麦统一德国时，基尔人口仅为三万。至1914年欧洲各国纷纷卷入一战时，基尔人口已超过22.7万。
Four years later, Kiel bore witness to the depths of German defeat. A sailors’ rebellion that started here spread nationwide and helped force the abdication of the kaiser in November 1918. The next year, rather than let the Imperial Fleet fall to the enemy, German commanders on Scapa Flow, off Scotland, scuttled 52 of the fleet’s 74 vessels. Under the Treaty of Versailles, signed five years to the day after the archduke’s assassination, the proud navy was limited to just a few ships and 15,000 men — far fewer than the 35,000 German sailors who had perished in World War I.
四年后，基尔目睹了德国的惨败。一次水手的起义蔓延至全国，1918年11月，德皇被迫退位。转年，不甘让皇家舰队落入敌手的德军，在苏格兰北部的斯卡珀湾将自己舰队74艘舰船中的52艘击沉。大公被刺杀五周年之际，《凡尔赛条约》获得签署，这支昔日威风的海军被限定在几艘军舰和1.5万名水兵的规模，人数大大少于3.5万这个一战德国水兵的阵亡人数。
Might, militarism and humiliation: These are the memories that make Germans today reluctant to project their clout as, once again, Europe’s economic powerhouse. One hundred years on from World War I, German leadership in Europe is both desired and resented, a historically rooted ambivalence that is keenly felt by the Germans and by their wary neighbors.
力量、军国主义、耻辱——这些记忆使今天的德国人不愿意去再一次释放作为欧洲经济强国的影响力。一战尘埃落定已有百年，对于德国在欧洲的领袖地位，有欢迎也有痛恶，这是一种根植于历史的矛盾心态，无论是德国人还是他们的那些警惕的邻居，都能强烈感受到。
Most Germans remain reluctant to see their country’s force deployed in any way commensurate with its economic heft. But this abstention from military action does not mean that Germany is not throwing its weight about.
尽管大部分德国人并不愿意看到自己国家在经济之外的其他方面显露锋芒，但军事方面的节制并不代表德国没有施加影响力的迹象。
During the European debt crisis, Chancellor Angela Merkel demonstrated that no solution was possible without Germany’s helping hugely to pay for it. Always calm, she brooked little criticism and brushed aside anti-German sentiment as she pushed to impose austerity on supposedly profligate European neighbors.
在欧债危机中，德国总理默克尔清楚证明了如果没有德国提供巨额资金，欧洲局面将一筹莫展。她以一贯的泰然自若掩埋了批评和抵德情绪，强硬敦促那些所谓的铺张邻国采取财政紧缩。
Today, with nationalism and populism on the rise in Europe, Ms. Merkel is central in trying to untangle a tussle over European leadership that may hasten a British exit from the European Union, and she faces demands from two other major partners, France and Italy, to relax stringent budgetary demands.
如今，国家主义和民粹主义在欧洲正在抬头，在调解这场有可能促使英国退出欧盟的针对欧洲领导权的乱战过程中，默克尔女士占据着中心地位；同时，她也面对着来自法、意两大主要伙伴的关于放宽预算规定的要求。
In Germany, the enormity of Nazi crimes in World War II tends to overshadow World War I, which consumed more than 37 million lives, including those wounded and missing, and four empires. In some ways, the 100th anniversary has reminded Germans that Hitler and his supporters bore deep scars from the country’s catastrophic defeat in 1918. Germans are observing the occasion with some 80 exhibitions nationwide, and with countless discussions and seminars. “The Sleepwalkers,” Christopher Clark’s chunky history of how Europe went to war in 1914, is a best seller and its author a coveted guest for centenary discussions.
在德国，二战中纳粹犯下的滔天罪行，应该说盖过了伤亡失踪三千七百万人、覆灭了四个帝国的一战。从某些方面来说，一战百年纪念向许多德国人提示：1918年德国灾难性的惨败，在希特勒及其同党的心中种下了仇恨的种子。现在，德国人为了纪念一战，在全国各地开展了八十多个展览、无数的研讨会。克里斯托弗·克拉克(Christopher Clark)撰写的、讨论1914年欧洲何以陷入战争的历史巨作《梦游者》，成为了畅销书，其作者也成为各个百年纪念研讨会炙手可热的嘉宾。
In Kiel, the imperial stamp always lingered. A statue of Kaiser Wilhelm I on horseback adorns a central park. The Kiel Canal, to this day an important waterway linking the North and Baltic Seas, was named after Wilhelm II when it opened in 1895. Outsize paintings of the opening still stare down at the regal Kiel Yacht Club.
在基尔，昔日的帝国印迹仍然随处可见。德皇威廉一世的骑马塑像装点着这座城市的中央公园。以威廉二世命名的基尔运河，开通于1895年，至今仍是连接北方和波罗的海的重要水道。记录运河开通的巨幅图画一如旧日与基尔游艇俱乐部遥相呼应。
Paradoxically, it was development on land that helped bolster the importance of this natural deep-sea port. By the time of Bismarck, the growth of railways had brought goods and people to Kiel from all over Germany and enabled the delivery of imports throughout the newly unified country. Later, shipyards that had produced Germany’s first submarine in 1851 were central to Wilhelm II’s naval race with Britain.
说起来有点矛盾，正是内陆的发展才突显了这个深海港口的重要性。到俾斯麦时期，铁路的发展将大批的商品和人从德国各地带到基尔，也将各种进口商品带去了新统一的国家各地。随后，在1851年制造了德国第一支潜水艇的造船厂，成为了威廉二世与英国之间的海上之争的核心力量。
Especially after 1900, Wilhelm poured torrents of money into the German Navy. In 1906, Britain’s Royal Navy took delivery of H.M.S. Dreadnought, with its groundbreaking armament of big guns. Wilhelm and top members of his navy and government responded with plans to build two dreadnoughts and one battle cruiser per year, as well as to dredge and widen the Kiel Canal so the large new vessels could use it.
尤其在1900年之后，威廉二世更是倾尽所有打造德国海军。1906年，英国皇家海军造出了武力空前、装备重型火炮的无畏号战列舰。威廉二世和海军上将们，连同德国政府做出回应，计划每年造两艘无畏级战列舰及一艘巡洋舰，并清淤拓宽基尔运河，以便容纳身型庞大的新战舰。
Four battle cruisers were produced in Kiel from 1907 to 1910, completed ahead of schedule. Naval spending rose steadily at least until 1912, when military commanders came to consider a land war more likely.
1907至1910年间，德国建成四艘巡洋舰，提前完成预期目标。海军开销逐年攀升的情景，至少持续到1912年，当时的军队指挥官开始考虑更有可能发生的陆上战争。
Britain and France were alarmed by Wilhelm’s ambition. Britain’s determination to keep its navy supreme only heightened German anxieties, already running high because the kaiser felt beleaguered on two fronts. The huge Russian Army ensured that his perceived foes had more men under arms than Germany and its Austro-Hungarian allies could muster.
威廉二世的野心使英法提起了警惕。德皇因为感觉自己两面受敌，认为是受到围困，而英国维持其海上霸权的决心更是提升了德国的焦虑感。浩浩荡荡的俄国大军也让他更加确信，他假想中的敌人兵力要比德国和奥匈帝国的同盟们加起来的兵力更强大。
In some sense, his naval expansion may have been a salve for this insecurity. At any rate, the Reichskriegshafen Kiel, the imperial war harbor here, profited. By the time war broke out in 1914, the navy had 22 pre-dreadnought ships, 14 dreadnoughts and four battle cruisers.
从某种意义上说，海军扩张正是他敷治自己缺乏安全感的脆弱内心的药膏。不管怎样，基尔，这个帝国军港，还是因此收益颇丰。至1914年大战爆发，德海军已拥有22艘前无畏舰，14艘无畏舰，和4艘巡洋舰。
Three more warships were completed by November 1914, and construction continued throughout the war, with a battle cruiser added in late 1914, 1916 and 1917. Naval historians, however, tend to accord more significance to Germany’s U-boats, which were responsible for the sinking of the Lusitania in 1915, for instance, eventually helping to draw the United States into Europe’s Great War.
至1914年11月，又有三艘军舰建成。整个战争期间，船舰的建造始终没有停止，1914、1916、1917年每到年末，都有一艘新的巡洋舰加入其海军。然而，海军历史学家们更倾向于给予德国U型潜艇更多的关注。正是这种潜艇在1915年击沉了卢西塔尼亚号，最终将美国卷入了欧洲的一战中。
A similar shipbuilding boom erupted in the 1930s after Hitler took power and reached an agreement with Britain, ushering in a new wave of production of submarines and surface battle vessels. The shipbuilding made Kiel a prime target for Allied bombs, and by the end of the war in 1945, it was 80 percent destroyed.
20世纪30年代，希特勒掌权并与英国达成协议，这引发了新一轮的潜艇和水面战斗舰艇的制造，昔日大造军舰的场景又一次在基尔出现，也使这里成为盟军的首要轰炸目标。1945年战争结束时，百分之八十的基尔被夷为平地。
Today, Kiel is still a seafaring town. Submarines are still built here. Sailors bob on Kiel Sound. Instead of dreadnoughts and battle cruisers, hulking cruise and cargo ships dominate the urban shoreline. But the city is a mosaic of ill-matched architecture and buildings that have changed purpose. Wilhelm’s proud Naval Academy, for instance, is now the parliamentary seat of Schleswig-Holstein, the state of which Kiel is the capital. The mishmash lends a defeated air to a place still pondering how to remember and interpret a dreadful 20th century.
今天的基尔，依然是座港口城市。潜水艇还在这里建造。一群群水手徜徉在基尔的海湾。不同于昔日满眼无畏舰、巡洋战舰的场景，今天，庞大的游船、货船占据着这座城市的海岸线。这里的建筑年代、风格迥异，早已远离了旧日的各种用途。比如，威廉二世当年威风凛凛的海军学院，如今已成为石勒苏益格-荷尔斯泰因州（Schleswig-Holstein，首府为基尔）的议会大楼。如此古今交叠的混杂，给这座仍然对不堪回首的20世纪试图进行反思和诠释的城市，笼罩了一种迷茫与挫败的氛围。
The histories of two concrete memorials illustrate the scars. One was originally intended to honor Germany’s naval dead in World War I. The other is the Flandernbunker, or Flanders bunker, built outside the main surviving military base here. Its name stems from a Nazi campaign to lionize the Germans killed in the World War I trenches, and it sheltered military commanders and select civilians in the global conflict that ignited two decades later.
两座纪念建筑的历史，记录了战争的伤痕。一座原本是为纪念一战中阵亡的德国海军官兵建造的；另一座名为佛兰德地堡（Flandernbunker），位于这里仅存的军营外。地堡名字源于当年纳粹颂扬一战中死于战场上的德国人的宣传活动，并在二十年后发起的二战中，成为军官及部分平民的避难所。
Today, a local art historian, Jens Rönnau, runs the bunker as an alternative arts and conference center with a goal of teaching peace and how to avoid future wars.
今天，当地艺术历史学家延斯·何诺(Jens Rönnau)将地堡改用为艺术与会议中心，旨在传播和平，避免战争重演。
Last month, about 150 people spent two days on what Uta Körby, a 69-year-old Kiel native working to draw attention to the Nazi past and memorialize its victims, calls “Battleground: History.”
上个月，约150人用两天时间参加了69岁的基尔老人乌塔·科比(Uta Körby)制作的名为“战场：历史”的纪念活动，以引起人们对纳粹历史的关注，并纪念成千上万的受害者。
The location was the memorial built for the World War I sailors. It is a tower and flamelike structure of reinforced concrete with an outer layer of north German brick, soaring nearly 300 feet above the coast at Laboe, where Kiel Sound meets the open sea. It was designed in 1927, but finished and opened only in 1936, when Kiel hosted the sailing events in the Olympics. Hitler attended but did not speak.
地点位于为一战海军水兵建立的纪念碑。这座以钢筋混凝土结构筑成的火焰状的塔碑，外层由德国北方的烧砖砌成。碑体耸立于基尔湾与大海连接处的拉博(Laboe)海岸，高300英尺。纪念碑于1927年设计，直到1936年基尔成为柏林奥运会帆船比赛的地点时才建成开放。当时，希特勒出席了落成仪式，但没有发表讲话。
Instead, the Nazis left their mark in a subterranean memorial hall with a demand: “Bare your head and be silent!” Exiting up one staircase, today’s visitors — there are 200,000 a year — confront a 1936 glass tableau of sailors’ lives on ship and shore, in which a still-discernible swastika has replaced the sun.
不过，纳粹用“脱帽，肃静！”的命令在一个地下纪念堂里留下了自己的印记。如今，这里每年迎来二十万游客。如果由此拾级而上，便可见到1936年绘制的、描述水兵在船上和岸上生活的彩色玻璃，其间代替了太阳的纳粹十字仍然依稀可见。
For Jann M. Witt — the amiable, bearded historian of the German Naval Association, which looks after this memorial and a U-boat dry-docked across the road — the meaning of the place is clear: It was designed to glorify the German Navy and its victims in World War I. When the British, whose bombs had left the memorial unscathed, returned it to the association in 1954, the Germans decided it would be for all their naval victims in the two world wars, “and our dead adversaries.”
该纪念馆，连同对面的陆上置放的U型潜艇，均由德国海军协会管理。在和蔼可亲、留着胡子的协会历史学家延恩·M·维特(Jann M. Witt)看来，此处的历史意义显而易见：立碑原是为美化一战中的德国海军及其死难者。当年英国的炸弹避开了此处，令纪念馆毫发无损，1954年英国将纪念馆还给德国海军协会，德国人随即决定此处将用以纪念两次世界大战中死去的所有海军官兵，“以及那些逝去的敌人”。
That was still too militaristic for many. So in 1996, it became a memorial for all those who have died at sea — a sweeping designation that has brought some notable international elements but results in a muddled exhibition that is still a tad nationalistic in tone.
但这样的说法对很多人来说仍然显得过于军国主义。于是，1996年这里成为了纪念所有海上遇难者的所在。如此的一个大头衔为这里赢得了一些引人注目的国际元素，但也使得馆藏陈列主题混乱，且仍无法摆脱那一丝民族主义色彩。