CAIRO — Egyptians who frequently take the Cairo-Alexandria Desert Road have lately noticed that the fee they usually pay to toll collectors now goes to the Ministry of Defense.
开罗——经常走开罗-亚历山大沙漠公路(Cairo-Alexandria Desert Road)的埃及人最近发现，他们通常交给收费员的过路费如今流向了国防部。
In a press conference in November, the Minister of Transportation announced one of the armed forces’ companies had been granted legal rights, for 50 years, to develop the Cairo-Alexandria Desert Road.
在11月举行的一场新闻发布会上，交通部长宣布，军方所有的一家公司得到了依法开发开罗-亚历山大沙漠公路的权利，期限为50年。
The army, a state within a state that used to protect its interests from the shadows, is now taking bolder steps to cement its power and asserting, increasingly overtly, that it is accountable to no one.
埃及军队是国中之国，过去曾暗中维护自身利益，现在正在采取更大胆的措施巩固自己的权力，而且还越来越公开地展示，自己不需要对任何人负责。
The party is over for the democratization drive that was heralded by the January 2011 uprising — none of the revolution’s demands have been achieved; none of the Interior Ministry’s notorious practices have stopped; and the ministry seems to be on a mission to silence all dissent.
以2011年1月革命为开端的追求民主化的盛事已经结束，革命的诸多诉求一项都没有达成，内政部臭名昭著的行径却一项都没有停止，而且内政部似乎开始了一项压制所有异见人士声音的任务。
The army has been empowered by popular support from a considerable segment of the population as an ultra-nationalist mood sweeps the country. Its absolute dominance will be more solidly institutionalized if the 2013 draft Constitution gets ratified in the January referendum, as is widely expected.
随着极端民族主义的情绪席卷全国，埃及民众中有相当一部分对军方给予了支持，军方的势力因而得以增强。如果2013年的宪法草案能在1月的公投中通过（广泛预期它会得到通过），军方的绝对支配地位还会更加牢固地得到制度化。
Pundits can debate the Constitution’s 240-plus articles as much as they want, but all the details are overshadowed by the articles enshrining the military’s special privileges. Article 234 gives the military the final say over who may be appointed as defense minister. Others mandate that the military’s budget be listed as a single entry in national accounts and that civilians may be tried before military courts if they assault members of the armed forces in military zones and military-owned properties, which in Egypt includes everything from gas stations to wedding halls.
专家们大可就宪法里的240多项条款随心所欲地辩论，然而与那些保护军方特权的条款相比，所有的细节都没那么重要。第234条规定，军方对任命国防部长有最终决定权。其他条款则规定，军方的预算在全国账目中以单独的科目列出，如果平民在军事区域和军方所有的产业袭击了武装部队人员，军事法庭可以审判平民。在埃及，军方的产业包罗万象，从加油站到举办婚礼的礼堂。
The army runs its own shadow economy, which reportedly constitutes at least a quarter of the country’s economy and there is no transparency to speak of. This is particularly disturbing given that Transparency International already ranks Egypt 114 out of 177 countries on its Corruption Perception Index.
军方也有自己的影子经济，据报道，它至少占国民经济总量的四分之一，而且其中毫无透明度可言。鉴于透明国际(Transparency International)在其清廉指数(Corruption Perception Index)中，已经将埃及列在了177个国家中的第114位，这种状况尤其令人担忧。
Articles on rights, including women’s rights, have dominated the media frenzy over the Constitution. But such articles are of little value in a country where extreme poverty already forces some families to sell their underage daughters into temporary, recurrent marriages to Arab Gulf millionaires.
媒体对宪法的热切关注，主要涉及保障权利，包括妇女权利的条款。然而在这样一个国家，类似的条款没有什么价值。在埃及，迫于极端的贫困，一些家庭会出卖还不够年龄的女儿，与阿拉伯湾的富商反复地暂时“结婚”。
The military has maintained its autonomy for decades, including under the presidency of Mohamed Morsi, who wooed the army in the hope that it would protect his rule (which it didn’t). The now-suspended 2012 Constitution that Mr. Morsi and the Brotherhood backed also institutionalized military trials for civilians and immunized the military’s budget from civilian scrutiny.
几十年来，军方一直维持着自主权，包括在穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)担任总统时。穆尔西讨好军方，希望他们能保护自己的统治（但军方没有这样做）。穆尔西和穆斯林兄弟会曾经支持的2012年宪法现在已被搁置，但那部宪法也从制度上认可了军事法庭可以审判平民，以及军方预算不受民选政府监督。
But after July 3, the army has fortified its powers in a way that hasn’t been so open since Gamal Abdel Nasser’s heyday. Contrary to the hopes of a segment of democrats, the masses who went out in the streets against Mr. Morsi welcomed the army’s stronger role in Egypt’s politics. Instead of insisting on democratic values and civilian rule as a framework for the transitional period, many Egyptians seemed nostalgic about a romantic image of the army as the only savior from “foreign conspiracies.”
但是在7月3日以后，军方已极大地巩固了权力，自贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)全盛过后，就再也没有如此公开争夺权力的行动。与一些民主派人士盼望的情形恰好相反，走上街头抗议穆尔西的群众，欢迎军队在埃及政治中扮演更重要的角色。许多埃及人非但没有坚持民主的价值，要在过渡期以文官政府的统治作为框架，反而产生了一种怀恋过去的想法，浪漫地认为军方在“外国阴谋”面前，是唯一的救世主。
Moreover, in the past months the army has capitalized on the public’s fear of the Muslim Brotherhood. Suddenly many of the self-proclaimed liberals who were outspoken during Mr. Morsi’s rule have revealed another face, showing that they don’t mind authoritarianism and human rights violations as long as such violations don’t come from Islamists.
此外，在过去几个月里，军方还利用了公众对穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的恐惧。许多自诩为自由派，在穆尔西当政期间大加批评的人，突然展示出了另一副面貌，表示他们不介意威权主义和侵犯人权的行为，只要侵犯者不是伊斯兰派就好。
A majority of Egyptians are expected to vote yes on the new Constitution, perhaps in the hope that this will bring them stability and will consolidate the army’s victory over the Muslim Brotherhood, which is regarded as the source of all evil thanks to a vigorous anti-Islamist media campaign as well as the Brotherhood’s own mistakes. Other political forces have largely lost their credibility: Egyptians seem to be tired of watching them compete with no regard for the needs of a country that has been drained by three years of upheaval and economic decline.
预计多数埃及人会对新宪法投赞成票，可能是希望这样能给他们带来稳定，巩固军方压制穆斯林兄弟会的胜局。由于媒体大张旗鼓地反对伊斯兰派，而且兄弟会自身也犯了错，因此兄弟会被当成了所有邪恶之源。其他的政治力量已基本失去了公信力，三年的起义和经济衰退，已经让埃及精疲力尽，埃及人看来已厌倦了各派政治力量不断纷争，却无视这个国家的需求。
But with time, and as more and more Muslim Brothers fill the country’s prisons, it will become clearer to Egyptians that the real sources of evil are military hegemony; corruption; lack of transparency, rule of law, social justice, human rights and freedoms.
然而随着时间的推移，随着越来越多兄弟会成员关进埃及各地的监狱，埃及人就会更明白，真正的邪恶之源在于军方的霸权，在于腐败，在于缺乏透明度、法治、社会正义、人权和自由。
With all the privileges and powers it enjoys, the army has so far failed to bring stability. Last week’s bombing of a police station in Mansoura killed 16 people, reminding Egyptians of the Islamist violence that rocked Egypt in the 1980s and 1990s.
尽管享有巨大特权和权力，军方到目前为止并没有带来稳定。上周，曼苏拉的一座警察局受到炸弹袭击，造成16人死亡，这让埃及人不禁回忆起了上世纪80、90年代震动埃及的伊斯兰派暴力行动。
There are elites who seem to believe that their interests will be guaranteed by the army’s hegemony, namely Egypt’s upper-middle class citizens whose priority is to sustain their comfortable lives. They are joined by corrupt businessmen, who fear that if real democracy ever takes root it will be coupled by the imposition of transparency measures.
有一些精英似乎相信，军方的霸权能够保障他们的利益，他们就是那些首要关注维持舒适生活的中产阶级。腐败商人也持同样的态度，他们害怕真正的民主到来时，也会实行确保透明度的举措。
Ultimately, those who saw the military as a better alternative to the Brotherhood will realize the magnitude of injustice that the military’s wide-ranging authorities could bring to all aspects of Egyptian life.
那些以为与兄弟会相比，军方是一个更好选择的人最终会意识到，军方广泛的权威会给埃及人生活的方方面面带来深重的不公。