KYOTO, Japan — Over the past two months, Thailand has been wrenched backward into a dark age. In May, partisan judges forced Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra out of office, and then royalist generals seized power from the caretaker government. It was the 13th military coup since the end of the absolute monarchy eight decades ago.
日本东京——过去两个月，泰国被猛地拉回到一段黑暗时期。5月，有着明显倾向性的法官强迫总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)下台，随后，保皇派将领从看守政府那里夺取了政权。这是80年前结束绝对君主制以来，泰国发生的第13次军事政变。
Once again the generals were claiming to step into a political mess simply to restore order. But this time the stakes are especially high, particularly for the traditional elite — the military, conservative royalists, many judges and senior bureaucrats and big businesses. King Bhumibol Adulyadej is 86 years old, and the crown prince is not as popular. The military, wary of any uncertainties in the approaching succession battle, which it sees as a zero-sum game, is trying to silence critics of the old-time elite, including members of the Red Shirt movement backed by Thaksin Shinawatra, Ms. Yingluck’s brother and a former prime minister himself.
这些军方将领又一次声称，介入混乱的政局只是为了恢复秩序。但这次的风险格外巨大，对于传统的权贵阶层来说尤其如此。这个阶层包括军方、保守的保皇派、许多法官和高级官员，以及一些大型企业。泰王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)已是86岁高龄，而王储又没有他那么受到支持。军方把王位继承的斗争看做一场零和游戏，由于担心在此期间出现任何不确定性，军方正努力压制旧权贵阶层的批评者。后者包括他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)支持的红衫军组织成员。他信是英拉的哥哥，也曾担任泰国总理。
It seemed at first that the Shinawatras’ supporters would be the best counterforce against the military. But the coup makers promptly went after the Red Shirts’ networks in far-flung provinces, arresting some local leaders. As a result, official condemnation of the coup by the international community has been more important than it might otherwise have been, and still more pressure on the generals could prove surprisingly effective.
起初，西那瓦家族的支持者似乎是对抗军方的最适宜力量。但政变发动者迅速瞄准红衫军在偏远省份的网络，逮捕了一些地方领袖。因此，国际社会对政变发出正式谴责变得尤为重要，对这些军事将领施加更多压力也可能会产生意想不到的效果。
Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha — the army chief, coup leader and now self-appointed interim prime minister — has made vague promises about an eventual return to democracy. Meanwhile, the junta has been trying to bolster its popularity with crude populism and by promoting a program under the banner “Returning Happiness to Thais.” It has showered the population with expensive short-term treats, like free broadcasts of the World Cup on national TV and free tickets to patriotic movies.
政变领导人、陆军总司令巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)目前是自我认命的过渡总理。他已经含糊其辞地承诺，泰国最终将回归民主。与此同时，军政府一直运用原始的民粹主义，通过推广一个打着“把幸福还给泰国人”旗号的项目，来提升支持率。它已经向泰国民众提供大量成本不菲的短期利益，比如在国家电视台上免费播放世界杯比赛，以及发放观看爱国电影的免费票。
Despite the official facade of national unity, the junta has tried to suppress even the mildest expressions of dissent, harassing and detaining critics, and in some cases charging them under an archaic lèse-majesté law that forbids criticism of the royal family. (On May 24, I was summoned to appear before the army for speaking out against the coup. I live in Kyoto and refused to go, and on June 13 an arrest warrant was issued against me.)
尽管营造出了全国上下一片团结的官方表象，军政府仍在努力压制哪怕是最温和的异见表达，恐吓和关押批评人士，有时还根据禁止批评王室的、陈腐的大不敬法律对他们提出指控。（5月24日，由于发表了反对政变的言论，我被军方传唤。我住在东京，拒绝前往，6月13日，当局发出了对我的逮捕令。）
In response, some Western countries have begun to impose sanctions on the junta. The European Union, which has called for immediate elections and the release of all political prisoners, announced on June 23 that it was suspending all official visits to Thailand and putting on hold a planned free-trade pact. Days later, the United States government said it would be cutting its annual military assistance to the Thai government by more than $4.7 million. Australia has halted its defense-cooperation program and announced a ban on travel visas for the junta.
作为回应，一些西方国家已经开始对军政府实施制裁。欧盟此前曾呼吁尽快举行大选，释放所有政治犯。6月23日，欧盟又宣布，将暂停所有对泰国的正式访问，搁置签订自由贸易协定的计划。几天后，美国政府表示，将对泰国政府的年度军事援助减少逾470万美元（约合3000万元人民币）。澳大利亚则中止了与泰国的防务合作项目，并宣布禁止为军政府成员提供旅行签证。
These measures are relatively limited and were predictable, yet the junta is reacting with great unease, as if it were at a loss over what to do. On the one hand, General Prayuth said recently that Thailand should solve its problems “in our own Thai style.” On the other hand, the interim government released many of the dissidents it detained after just several days of intimidation in army custody. And Sihasak Phuangketkeow, the permanent secretary of the Thai Foreign Ministry, extended a kind of peace offering to the European Union: “We should look at the long-term benefits of keeping the relationship.” The junta’s inconsistent messaging suggests that it feels vulnerable.
这些措施相对有限，也是可以预见的，但军政府的反应却相当不淡定，甚至好像已经不知所措。一方面，占奥差将军最近表示，泰国“应该以自己的泰国方式”解决问题。另一方面，在拘留和恐吓了许多异见人士几天之后，过渡政府释放了他们。而泰国外交部常务秘书长西哈萨克·庞凯考(Sihasak Phuangketkeow)对欧盟展示了和平姿态：“我们应该着眼于保持双边关系的长期利益。”军政府发出的前后矛盾的信息暴露了它的脆弱感。
And vulnerable it is. The Thai military’s last coup in 2006 proved a failure because Mr. Thaksin’s political influence endured even after he was deposed, and the next election brought another pro-Thaksin party to power. The generals are busy cracking down on Thaksin supporters because they are wary of repeating the same mistake, even though that undermines the claim that their latest putsch was a coup for democracy.
它确实是脆弱的。泰国军方上一次发动政变是在2006年，那次政变之所以失败，是因为他信的政治影响力在他被罢免之后仍然存在，而接下来的大选把另一个亲他信的政党推上了权力的宝座。因为他们担心重蹈覆辙，军方将领们忙于镇压他信的支持者，即使这会削弱他们的主张，即最近的这次政变是一次追求民主的政变。
With such shaky legitimacy, the junta has been distributing economic benefits to the population to secure its support. It has ordered the disbursement of funds to poor farmers owed by Ms. Yingluck’s government under a rice-subsidy program. It has also said it would inject close to $30 billion — or 40 percent of the budget for this fiscal year — into infrastructure projects in remote areas.
由于缺乏稳固的合法性，军政府一直在向泰国民众派发经济利益，从而赢得他们的支持。军政府已经下令，把英拉政府在一个水稻补贴项目中的欠款发放给贫困农民。它还表示，将向偏远地区的基础设施工程注入300亿美元——即本财年预算的40%。
The junta seems to think its survival depends on its popular appeal. That in turn may depend on the junta’s ability to deliver economic benefits — which in turn may depend on how much Western countries are willing to tolerate the suspension of democratic freedoms.
军政府似乎认为，自己的存亡取决于对民众的吸引力。反过来，这种吸引力可能取决于军政府提供经济利益的能力——而这种能力又或许取决于西方国家愿意在多大程度上容忍泰国暂时中止本国的民主自由。
Thailand is particularly vulnerable to sanctions because the country is an essential link in the global supply chains of crucial commodities like rice and automobiles. Buyers are also dependent on these supply chains, but they can more readily turn to, say, Vietnam and Myanmar to buy rice than Thailand can diversify the goods it produces. This is one reason the junta is making overtures to Beijing: Just two weeks after the coup, General Prayuth was shaking hands with Chinese business leaders, with an eye to offsetting the effects of sanctions from the West.
鉴于泰国是大米、汽车等关键的全球商品的供应链中必不可少的一环，它格外容易受到制裁的冲击。买家也要依靠这些供应链，不过，和泰国实现本国产品多样化难度重重相比，买家能更轻易地转从其他国家进口大米，比如说越南和缅甸。这是军政府主动接触中国政府的一个原因。政变刚过去两周，着眼于抵消西方制裁影响的巴育将军就在和中国商界领袖把手言欢了。
The United States and the European Union have warned that they may take more aggressive steps, including boycotting Thai products, if the generals fail to restore democracy. Some of the coup’s most conservative backers have responded by calling for retaliatory boycotts against American and European products. Anand Panyarachun, a former prime minister and a royalist, declared that Thailand should simply “close for renovation.”
美国和欧盟警告称，如果将领们无法恢复民主体制，他们可能会采取更激烈的措施，包括抵制泰国产品。此次政变的某些最保守的支持者已经做出回应，他们呼吁当局采取报复措施，抵制美国和欧洲产品。保皇主义者、泰国前总理阿南·班雅拉春(Anand Panyarachun)宣称，泰国干脆“关门装修”得了。
These are silly reactions, of course, but like the generals’ turn to Beijing, they reveal a deep anxiety about the damage that pressure from the West may do to the Thai economy and the junta’s popularity. Sanctions are often derided as symbolic and ineffectual, but they are proving useful against the coup leaders in Bangkok.
当然，这些都是愚蠢的反应，不过，和将领们求助于中国政府一样，这些反应显示了他们对西方的压力可能给泰国经济和军政府的民望造成的伤害深感不安。制裁往往被嘲讽为象征性的无效之举，可是事实正在证明，它们对曼谷的政变领袖是有效的。
The West should broaden its reach. Increasing the economic costs of the junta’s illegitimate hold on power would loosen the generals’ grip, and help the Red Shirts and other anti-junta activists restore democracy in Thailand.
西方应当拓宽制裁打击范围。提升军政府非法掌权的经济代价将消解将领们对权力的掌控，帮助红衫军和其他反对军政府的活动人士恢复泰国的民主制度。