When the Olympic torch reaches Sochi, Russia, to begin the Winter Games two months from now, it will have traveled farther than any other torch in Winter Olympics history. Since its odyssey began in Moscow, the torch has been carried by foot, on trains, planes and troikas, taken to the North Pole via icebreaker and into lower Earth orbit on a Soyuz rocket.
当奥运会火炬抵达俄罗斯索契，拉开距离现在两个月的冬奥会的帷幕时，它的运行距离将是冬奥会历史上最长的一个。自从其征程始于莫斯科，它曾被步行的人举着，坐过火车、飞机和马车，在破冰船上去过北极，还搭乘联盟号(Soyuz)火箭进入了近地轨道。
The Olympics are built on boasts, and Sochi 2014 is no exception. Though plagued by corruption and other controversies — insufficiently cold weather, uncertainty about the presence of antidoping agencies, power failures, Russia’s ban on “gay propaganda” — they are the most lavish and costliest Olympics, approached as though the International Olympic Committee was expecting titans to clash in its stadiums.
奥运会一向建立在赞颂夸耀的基础上，2014年的索契冬奥会也不例外。虽然深受贪污腐败和其他问题困扰——气温不够低、反兴奋剂机构是否出现前景不明、停电，以及俄罗斯对“同性恋宣传活动”的禁止——这次最奢侈、花费最高的奥运会即将到来，值此之际国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)好像是在期待诸神会在它的体育场馆里决战一样。
But the photographer Mikhail Mordasov wasn’t interested in the superlatives or the hype: he wanted to cut through all the commotion coming out of the Black Sea resort area and reveal the landscape, the city and its people.
但摄影师米哈伊尔·莫尔达索夫(Mikhail Mordasov)对那些溢美之词或大肆宣传都不感兴趣：他希望能摒弃来自黑海景区的所有喧嚣，向人们展示这里的风景、城市风貌和人民。
“I wanted to show the city to the people who have never been here or just seen the beach as it is truly like,” Mr. Mordasov, 31, said via email.
31岁的莫尔达索夫在电子邮件中说，“我想向从未来过这里的或只见过它的海滩的人展示这座城市的真实面貌。”
It is a beautiful land — not merely a vacation spot near Georgia or another of Stalin’s dachas. It is the site of fishing, funerals, baths, balloons, weddings and work. It is changing, yes, but it still bears some marks of the Soviet era (Slides 5 and 11). It is increasingly a multicultural city, as the number of migrants swells as they arrive to finish the job of completing the two Olympic villages and the arenas in which the world’s elite athletes will compete. Mr. Mordasov, originally from Velikiy Novgorod, Russia, arrived in Sochi four years ago on assignment from RIA Novosti, the state news agency. It was his first time visiting the city, but he was smitten and stayed even after he left RIA Novosti to pursue freelance work. Over time, his opinion of Sochi as the site of the next Olympic contests grew complicated.
这是一片美丽的土地——它不只是格鲁吉亚附近的度假胜地或斯大林的另一座乡间宅邸。这里有人垂钓、有人举行葬礼，有人沐浴，有人举行婚礼，有气球，也有人在工作。这里正在改变，的确如此，但它仍然有一些苏联时代的痕迹（幻灯片5和11）。这座城市的文化日益多元，大量移民纷纷来到这里，修建两座奥运村和世界顶级运动员的竞技场。莫尔达索夫的家乡是俄罗斯大诺夫哥罗德(Velikiy Novgorod)，四年前他因为官方通讯社俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)的工作来到索契。那是他第一次来到这里，也让他一见钟情，于是在他从俄罗斯新闻社离职，开始当自由摄影师以后，一直留在当地。随着时间流逝，他对索契成为下一届奥运会举办地的看法也开始变得复杂。
He welcomes some of the changes that the intense and swift development has brought: new transportation infrastructure, including high-speed rail, new roads and a power plant. The work has hastened the modernization of Sochi, shedding a lot of its Soviet structures and the stigma of its noxious Stalinist legacy. “Talking about the Olympics,” Mr. Mordasov said, “I’m happy about it as it brought me a job and I moved to Sochi to live.” Young professionals have flocked there, opening businesses, creating jobs.
他对剧烈而迅速的发展所带来的一些变化表示欢迎：高速铁路和新公路等新的交通设施，以及一座发电厂。这些工作加速了索契的现代化进程，移除了大量苏联时期的建筑物，也消除了其臭名昭著的斯大林遗迹的污名。“谈到奥运会，”莫尔达索夫说，“我对它感到高兴，因为它给我提供了一份工作，我也得以搬到索契来生活。”年轻的专业人士涌入此地开设公司，创造了就业机会。
But he also frets about the rising prices that follow when so many people move to the area. And he is concerned that the construction has adversely affected the environment and air, and that it will take years to recover.
然而，由于许多人搬来这里，引起物价上涨，这让他颇为担心。而且，他担心建筑活动会给环境和空气带来负面影响，这种影响往往需要很多年才能修复。
After all, Sochi’s proximity to nature was one of the things that attracted him to the area. The mild climate, “the fact that half of year I can wear slippers and light clothing,” the closeness of the Black Sea, Caucasus Mountains and the Tissot-Box Grove forest are among Sochi’s inestimable treasures. Mr. Mordasov points to his image of (Slide 7) of Tissot-Box Grove as essential to his appreciation of Sochi, something no one would think to advertise as representing his beloved city.“In this forest you can feel yourself as if you were in prehistoric years,” he said. “The contrast with the modern city, with loads of people and constructions, is unbelievable. If you Google ‘Sochi pictures,’ you’d never find such a great image of the city, but it is a reality which is quite close to us.”
毕竟，索契与自然的紧密关系是吸引他来到这里的原因之一。这里气候温和，“我有半年时间都可以穿便鞋和轻便的衣物”，离黑海、高加索山脉和吉萨黄杨树林(Tissot-Box Grove)森林的距离很近是索契最无价的财富。莫尔达索夫指着他给吉萨黄杨树林拍摄的照片(幻灯片7）说，他对索契的喜爱主要来源于此。一般而言，不会有人把这个森林当做这座他钟爱的城市的代表。“在这片森林中，你会觉得自己正置身于史前，”他说。“现代城市里到处是人和楼房，这里与城市所形成的对比十分惊人。如果你在谷歌(Google)中搜索‘索契图片’，你绝对找不到关于这座城市的如此之棒的照片，但它是一个与我们非常接近的现实环境。”
But, more painfully, there is the story of those who happened to live in the path of Sochi’s development. As the city is thrust onto the international stage by those in search of glory and profit, the normal people — some 2,000 of them — have been brushed aside.
不过，令人痛心的是，有些人居住的位置刚好妨碍了索契的发展。随着这座城市被那些追寻荣耀和利益的人推上国际舞台，普通人——大约2000左右——则被抛到了一边。
Mr. Mordasov’s photo of Alexei Kravets (Slide 9) was perhaps the most emotionally difficult to take. He said that Mr. Kravets and his 13-year-old son were forcibly evicted from their home by officials, their possessions tossed onto the street on a rainy day.
莫尔达索夫为阿列克谢·克拉韦茨(Alexei Kravets)拍摄的照片（幻灯片9)或许是拍摄时最让人难受的一张。他表示，克拉韦茨和他13岁的儿子被官员强行赶出家，他们的东西在一个雨天被扔到了大街上。
Mr. Kravets was not given temporary housing by the government, as some displaced persons have been. As Mr. Mordasov heard more of Mr. Kravets’s story, ambivalence about what the Olympics have brought to Sochi crept in. That included an ambivalence about his own work as a photographer who could choose his subject but not help him. “He had a hope that I could help him to get the compensation he needed,” Mr. Mordasov said of Mr. Kravets, “but unfortunately it was not under my control.”
克拉韦茨没有像一些被迫搬离的人那样，获得政府提供的临时住房。当莫尔达索夫更详细了解了克拉韦茨的故事，他不知不觉产生了一种矛盾心理——奥运会究竟给索契带来了什么。比如，有关自已工作的矛盾心理，作为一名摄影师，他可以将克拉韦茨当做拍摄对象，但却无法帮助他。“他希望我能帮助他得到他所需要的补偿，”莫尔达索夫提到克拉韦茨时说，“但遗憾的是，我说了不算。”
“I had to explain him every day why I cannot do it for him,” he said, “and that I am only able to show and tell his story to the world, but not to influence the government. At the end of the day, his house was ruined and there is picture of me left in his eyes as someone who was taking photos, but never went further with helping.”
“我得每天向他解释我为什么无法帮助他，”他说，“我只能向世界展示、讲述他的故事，但却无法影响政府。到最后，他的房子被拆，他眼中的我只是一个正在拍照，但却无法进一步提供帮助的人。”