SOCHI, Russia — Figure skating is the only Winter Olympic sport in which a competitor is so alone for so many minutes, so isolated in a contained space, accompanied only by thoughts that can be as quivery as tired legs.
俄罗斯索契——在冬奥会所有的比赛项目中，一名参赛选手独自一人在一个有限的封闭空间里表演这么久，与其相伴的只有一些像疲惫双腿那样颤抖的思绪，这样的项目唯有花样滑冰。
“There is a devil on one shoulder and an angel on the other side,” said Patrick Chan, 23, the reigning three-time world champion from Canada and an Olympic favorite who has struggled with self-assurance. “It’s a constant battle between positive and negative thoughts.”
“一边肩膀上是魔鬼，另一边是天使。”23岁的陈伟群说，他来自加拿大，是三次夺冠的卫冕世界冠军，也是奥运会上人们喜爱的一位运动员，但他遭遇了自信心的考验：“积极的想法和消极的想法一直在交战。”
During the 2 minutes 50 seconds of the men’s short program Thursday, Chan will take the ice as the world’s most complete skater. His four-revolution jumps are airy. He seems to reach top speed with two whispery crosscut strokes of his blades. His edging and skating skills are precise and exquisite.
本周四，在2分50秒男子短节目比赛中，陈伟群将作为世界上技术最全面的花样滑冰选手出现在赛场上。他的四周跳空灵轻快，似乎轻松蹬两下冰刀就能加速到最快，而且他的用刃技巧和滑行技巧也精确而细腻。
“He’s the most consistent at everything,” Johnny Weir of the United States, who finished sixth at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, said of Chan. “He jumps as well as he spins as well as he skates.”
“他有最为均衡全面的技能。”在2010年温哥华奥运会上获得第六名的美国选手约翰尼·威尔(Johnny Weir)在谈到陈伟群时说，“他跳跃、旋转、滑行样样都好。”
And yet Chan has appeared insecure at times in his recent performances and interviews. He has developed a reputation for falling in major competitions and still receiving high scores, which his critics call Chanflation. And he bears the weight of historical disappointment: No male skater from Canada has won an individual Olympic gold medal.
然而在最近的比赛和采访中，陈伟群有时却会表现出缺乏安全感。他有了一个在重大比赛中失误但仍能获得高分的名声，这被批评者称为“陈膨胀”(Chanflation)。而且加拿大男子花样滑冰选手还从未获得过个人奥运金牌，这种长久以来的失望也给他压上了重担。
Chan finished second to men’s skating’s hottest competitor, Yuzuru Hanyu, 19, of Japan, in December at the Grand Prix Final, an Olympic tuneup. At the Canadian national championships in January, Chan easily won but veered into sloppiness.
去年12月举行的国际滑冰联盟花样滑冰大奖赛总决赛(Grand Prix Final)是奥运会前的一场热身赛，当时陈伟群落败于男子花样滑冰最热门的竞争者、来自日本的19岁选手羽生结弦(Yuzuru Hanyu)。在今年1月的加拿大全国锦标赛中，陈伟群轻松获胜，但之后状态下滑。
Last week, he finished third in the short program of the Olympic team competition behind Hanyu and the charismatic Evgeni Plushenko of Russia, reducing a planned quadruple-toe, triple-toe combination jump and stepping out of a triple axel.
在上周的奥运团体短节目赛中，他减少了原计划的后外点冰四周和后外点冰三周跳组合动作，并在一个三周半跳中失误，最后位列第三，落后于羽生结弦和魅力十足的俄罗斯选手叶甫根尼·普鲁申科(Evgeni Plushenko)。
The decisive question in the men’s individual competition, which will conclude with a long program of four and a half minutes Friday, is, “Who will wilt?” said Dick Button, the two-time Olympic champion.
男子个人赛中的决定性问题是：“谁会退缩？”两届奥运会冠军迪克·巴顿(Dick Button)说。周五将举行的四分半钟长节目将是单人男子花样滑冰项目的最后一场比赛。
The issue of composure faces not only Chan, but every male skater. Even Plushenko, 31, a four-time Olympic medalist, admitted feeling slightly dizzy before a loud, adoring home audience in the team competition.
不仅是陈伟群面临着心态的问题，每一位花样滑冰男选手都是如此。即便是四次奥运会奖牌得主、31岁的普鲁申科也坦言，在团体赛中，面对崇拜他的家乡观众的大声助威，他也感到略为晕眩。
“All of the work has been done physically,” said Jeremy Abbott, a four-time American champion who trains with Chan at Detroit Skating Club and succumbed to nerves in the Olympic team short program. “Once you’re out there, it’s all about the mental game.”
“我们在身体上已经做好了准备。”与陈伟群同在底特律滑冰俱乐部(Detroit Skating Club)训练的四界美国冠军杰里米·艾博特(Jeremy Abbott)说，他在奥运团体短节目赛中太过紧张而崩溃。“一旦你上了赛场，就完全是心理上的较量了。”
Each skater has his own method to try to calm himself and prevent a self-destructive inner voice from intruding. Jason Brown of the United States skates without his glasses, leaving him unable to see the eyes of the spectators.
每个花样滑冰选手都有各自的方法来让自己冷静下来，防止自毁的想法影响发挥。美国的杰森·布朗(Jason Brown)会摘下眼镜，这样他就看不到观众的眼睛了。
“It’s all a bit of a blur,” Brown said. “It helps me perform and emote to the audience better.”
“这样看东西有点模糊。”布朗说，“不过可以帮助我更好地表演，更好地向观众展现感情。”
Skaters often recite key words to themselves to trigger a particular spin, jump or piece of footwork. Abbott has trained using percussive sounds of a drummer who helps golfers with their swings. The sound provides a certain rhythm for counting to six as he launches into a quadruple jump.
滑冰选手经常会在心里背诵关键词，以便触发某个特定的旋转、跳跃或系列步法。艾博特使用了一个帮助高尔夫球手改善挥杆动作的鼓手的打击声。这种声音提供了某种节奏，当数到6时，他就做四周跳动作。
Abbott has also brought an inflatable bed to Sochi to help him sleep, consulted his sports psychologist during Skype sessions and moved to a hotel because he became distracted in the Olympic Village, where life seemed “more like summer camp than the Olympic Games.”
艾博特还带了一张有助于他睡眠的充气床到索契，并在Skype上向他的体育心理学家寻求建议；他搬到了一间酒店，因为住在奥运村让他注意力分散，那里的生活似乎“更像是夏令营而不是奥运会”。
“It’s probably the same for every athlete,” Abbott said. “It’s really the doubt that drives us to succeed, because if we were all confident, we would all be complacent.”
“对于所有运动员来说可能都是一样，”艾博特说，“驱使我们成功的其实是怀疑，因为如果我们全都充满自信，我们就会因此而自满。”
At Skate Canada in October in St. John, New Brunswick, Chan said in an interview that his biggest goal for this season was “landing on my feet.”
去年10月，在新不伦瑞克省圣约翰举行的国际滑冰联盟花样滑冰大奖赛加拿大站(Skate Canada)上，陈伟群在接受采访时表示，他对该赛季最大的目标是“克服困难，取得成功”。
Given the completeness of his routines, Chan said, he believed that a clean short and long program at the Olympics would make for “an unbeatable program and skater.”
陈伟群说，鉴于他各套动作均衡全面，他相信在奥运会上，干净利落的短节目和长节目会成就“无与伦比的节目和选手”。
Staying on his feet was a “mental thing, not a technical thing at all,” Chan said. “I can do all my jumps in practice, three in a row, five out of five, four out of five.”
阻止他成功的是“心理上的东西，完全不是技术层面的”，陈伟群说。“在练习时，我所有跳跃都能做到，三连跳，五次五中，或者五次中有四次成功。”
At competitions like the Olympics, though, he said: “It’s being able to manage the pressure, being on the ice on your own. All eyes are on you. All you hear is your music and nobody else. There’s not a word in the crowd. It’s a very different feeling to perform under those situations.”
但他表示，在像奥运会这样的比赛中，“你要能控制压力，能独自站在冰上。所有人都在注视着你。但你听到的只有音乐，听不到任何其他人的声音。观众中没有一丝声响。在这种情况下表演，感觉会非常不同。”
As a teenager, Chan finished fifth at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. Skating before a home crowd, he has said he felt like a “puppy in puppy day care.” But he has become a multiple world champion since then. And with his success has come pressure and expectation.
作为一名青少年，陈伟群在2010年温哥华冬奥会取得了第五名。他表示，在家乡父老面前滑冰感觉自己像是“狗狗日托班里的狗狗”。但此后，陈伟群多次获得世界冠军。但他的成功也带来了压力和期待。
During the past year and a half, Chan has tried to take more responsibility in his personal and professional lives. He moved his training from Colorado Springs to Detroit and began living apart from his mother, Karen, cooking his own meals, doing his own chores.
在过去一年半的时间里，陈伟群努力在个人生活和职业生涯中承担更多责任。他离开科罗拉多斯普林斯，来到底特律训练，开始离开母亲卡伦(Karen)独自生活，自己做饭、干家务。
“I can go to a competition on my own and not feel like a lost puppy,” Chan said. “I really feel in control of what I need to do.”
“我可以独自一人参加比赛，不会感觉像是一只迷路的小狗，”陈伟群说，“我真的觉得能够掌控自己需要做的事情。”
Yet, in the Olympic team competition, while Plushenko strutted as the consummate showman, Chan stumbled through his short program. Russia took the gold medal, while Canada settled for silver.
然而，在奥运会团体赛中，当普鲁申科表演完美出尽风头时，陈伟群却在短节目中出现了失误。俄罗斯赢得金牌，加拿大获得银牌。
“Patrick is the favorite and he’s also made himself the favorite, which I find refreshing,” said Tara Lipinski, the 1998 women’s Olympic champion. “People are here to win gold medals. When you say you just want to skate your best, that obviously isn’t the real truth. It’s refreshing to hear him say this is his time, this is his medal. At the same time, if you are going to talk the talk, you’ve got to walk the walk.”
“陈伟群最有希望夺冠，他努力使自己成为夺冠呼声最高的选手，我觉得这令人耳目一新，”1998年奥运会女子花样滑冰冠军塔拉·利普斯基(Tara Lipinski)说。“大家来这儿都是为了拿金牌。如果你说自己只想尽力滑，做到最好，这明显不是实话。听到他说这是属于他的时刻，这是属于他的奖牌时，我感到眼前一亮。与此同时，如果你这么说了，你就得付诸行动。”
Chan said he was trying to relax, to avoid becoming stressed over every element of his routines. Yet he has been asking himself questions filled with doubt. Is he as well-trained as the others? Are his quadruple jumps as worthy as Hanyu’s?
陈伟群表示他正在设法放松下来，避免过多考虑整套动作中的各个元素。但他对自己充满怀疑，一直在自问。他的训练水平赶上其他人了吗？他的四周跳像羽生结弦一样出色吗？
And, most unsettling, “Am I going to beat them, even if I skate my best?”
最令人不安的是，“我会打败他们吗，即便我尽了最大努力？”