In 1942, a Swiss shoemaker and his wife set out across a glacier to milk their cows, which were grazing in a neighboring area. The couple, the parents of seven young children, were never seen again.
1942年，瑞士一个鞋匠和妻子出门穿过一片冰川，去给在附近吃草的奶牛挤奶。此后，人们再也没见过这对有七个年幼孩子的夫妇。
On Wednesday, the mystery of what happened to the couple was finally solved as the police formally identified two mummified bodies found last week in an Alpine glacier as those of Marcelin Dumoulin, 40, and his wife, Francine, a 37-year-old teacher.
周三，警方正式确认上周在阿尔卑斯山脉的一片冰川里发现的两具已变成木乃伊的遗体，属于40岁的马塞兰·迪穆兰(Marcelin Dumoulin)和他37岁的妻子、职业为教师的弗朗辛(Francine)，这对夫妇遭遇了什么的谜团也终于被解开。
A ski resort worker stumbled upon their bodies on Thursday near a ski lift about 8,600 feet above a village, Les Diablerets. Along with the couple’s well-preserved World War II-era clothes, other clues to their identity included a book and a watch.
周四，一个滑雪度假村的工作人员在比莱迪亚布勒雷村高出大约8600英尺（约合2600米）的滑雪缆车附近意外发现了两人的遗体。除夫妇二人保存完好的二战时期的衣服外，其他能证明他们身份的线索还包括一本书和一块表。
Stéphane Vouardoux, a spokesman for the police in the canton of Valais, the area near where the couple disappeared, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that DNA testing had confirmed that the bodies were the Dumoulins. He said the discovery had brought a sense of closure to the couple’s two surviving daughters, and ended the uncertainty about the tragedy that had haunted locals for decades. The evidence strongly suggested, he added, that the couple had died in an accident.
在这对夫妇失踪时所在区域附近的瓦莱州，警方发言人斯特凡纳·武尔杜(Stéphane Vouardoux)周三接受电话采访时说，DNA检测证实他们是迪穆兰夫妇。他说，此次发现让这对夫妇仍在世的两个女儿终能释怀，也让有关这场困扰当地民众数十年的悲剧的不确定性画上了句号。他说，证据有力地表明，这对夫妇死于一场意外。
“It is definitely them — until now, all we had was hope,” Mr. Vouardoux said, adding that the news had reduced several residents to tears. “This, once and for all, puts an end to a story that has deeply marked the village. For years, people have been asking questions: ‘What happened to them? Why couldn’t we find them?’ Now we know the truth.”
“肯定是他们——在此之前，我们一直心怀希望，”武尔杜说，并接着表示这个消息让多位居民落泪。“这件事让一个深深影响了这个村子的故事永远结束了。多年来，人们一直在问：‘他们遇到了什么事？我们为什么找不到他们？’现在，我们知道了真相。”
After the couple disappeared 75 years ago, the police searched the area for weeks. The seven Dumoulin children — five boys and two girls — were separated and went to live with families in the area. Every year on Aug. 15, some of the siblings would climb the glacier to pray.
75年前，这对夫妇失踪后，警方在该地区搜寻了数周。迪穆兰家的七个孩子——五个男孩，两个女孩——被迫分开，和该地区的不同家庭生活。每年的8月15日这一天，七个兄弟姐妹中的一些人都会爬上那片冰川祈祷。
Speaking before the DNA identification, Marceline Udry-Dumoulin, 79, one of the couple’s daughters, said she had been convinced that the bodies were her parents after learning that the resort worker had seen her mother’s clothes and shoes. She recalled saying, “You have my mother, you don’t need to look further.”
夫妇两的其中一个女儿、79岁的马塞利娜·于德里-迪穆兰(Marceline Udry-Dumoulin)在DNA鉴定之前发表讲话时说，得知那名工作人员看到了她母亲的衣服和鞋子后，她就相信那两具遗体是她的父亲和母亲。她回忆自己当时说，“你们已经找到我母亲了，不用再找了。”
Ms. Udry-Dumoulin said she now had one priority: giving her parents a proper funeral and burial, however belated.
于德里-迪穆兰说，她现在的头等大事只有一件：让父母得到迟来已久的哀悼仪式，体面下葬。