WASHINGTON — Impetuous and instinctive, convinced of broad but hidden plots to undermine him, eager to fight and prone to what an aide called “alternative facts,” President Trump has shown in just days in office that he is like few if any occupants of the White House before him.
华盛顿——冲动鲁莽、凭本能行动、相信有广泛而隐蔽的阴谋在对他进行暗中破坏，渴望斗争，更倾向于其助手所称的“另一种事实”，特朗普上任没几天就已经表明，他几乎是一位史无前例的白宫主人。
He sits in the White House at night, watching television or reading social media, and through Twitter issues instant judgments on what he sees. He channels fringe ideas and gives them as much weight as carefully researched reports. He denigrates the conclusions of intelligence professionals and then later denies having done so. He thrives on conflict and chaos.
到了晚上，他待在白宫里看电视或是浏览社交媒体，通过Twitter发布他对自己所看到的东西做出的即时判断。他关注零星的意见，觉得它们和经过仔细研究得出的报告一样重要。他诋毁情报专业人员的结论，然后又否认自己这么干过。他在冲突和混乱中如鱼得水。
For a capital that typically struggles to adjust to the ways of a new president every four or eight years, Mr. Trump has posed a singular challenge. Rarely if ever has a president been as reactive to random inputs as Mr. Trump. Career government officials and members of Congress alike are left to discern policy from random Twitter posts spurred by whatever happened to be on television when the president grabbed the remote control.
每隔四年或八年，这座首都都要努力去适应新总统的各种方式，对于它来说，特朗普算得上是个大挑战。很少有哪个总统会像特朗普这样，对各种随机的意见做出反应。不管他是因为打开电视看到了什么而发的推，职业政府官员和国会议员都得从那些随机的推文里揣测政策。
While that habit generated conversation and consternation when Mr. Trump was a candidate, he now serves as commander in chief and his 140-character pronouncements carry the power of an Olympian lightning bolt. In the last 24 hours alone, he threatened to send federal forces into Chicago and vowed to investigate his own false claim that three million to five million votes were cast illegally in November, costing him the popular vote. The trumpet blasts came even as he issues daily executive actions overturning longstanding policies across the board.
虽然当特朗普还是候选人的时候，这种习惯就已经导致了议论和惊讶，但如今他已经是国家统帅，他那140个单词的声明带有奥林匹亚山闪电的力量。在刚过去的24小时里，他威胁要派遣联邦力量进入芝加哥，并发誓要调查他自己提出的不实说法——11月有300万到500万的非法投票，令他输掉了普选。即便在他每天签署政令推翻各部门施行已久的政策之时，他也没停止过咆哮。
Mr. Trump’s advisers say that his frenzied if admittedly impulsive approach appeals to voters because it shows that he is a man of action. Those complaining about his fixation with fictional voter fraud or crowd counts at his inauguration, in their view, are simply seeking ways to undercut his legitimacy.
特朗普的顾问说，他这些愤怒的、确实有些冲动的做法对于选民来说很有吸引力，因为这表明他是一个积极行动的人。在他们看来，有些人抱怨他抓住虚构的选票造假或就职典礼人数问题不放，只是在想方设法削弱他的合法性。
Yet some of his own advisers also privately worry about his penchant for picking unnecessary fights and drifting off message. They talk about taking away his telephone or canceling his Twitter account, only to be dismissed by a president intent on keeping his own outlets to the world.
然而，他自己的一些顾问私下里也担心他总是挑起不必要的战斗，以及乱发消息。他们讨论过要拿走他的手机，或者取消他的Twitter帐户，但是这位总统打算保留自己对世界发言的渠道，对这些建议不屑一顾。
The results play out daily. During his 8 p.m. show on Fox News on Tuesday, Bill O’Reilly aired a segment on the crime crisis in Chicago and interviewed an expert talking about whether the president could intervene. The guest called the violence in Chicago “carnage.”
其结果每天都在显示出来。周二晚8点，比尔·奥雷利(Bill O'Reilly)在他的福克斯新闻台(Fox News)节目中播放了一个关于芝加哥犯罪危机的片段，访问了一位专家，探讨总统是否可以介入。这位嘉宾称芝加哥的暴力是“浩劫”。
At 9:25 p.m., Mr. Trump sent out a Twitter post, using the same statistics that Mr. O’Reilly had flashed on the screen. “If Chicago doesn’t fix the horrible ‘carnage’ going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds!” the president wrote.
到了晚上9:25，特朗普发出了一则推文，使用了奥雷利的节目里一闪而过的统计数据。“如果芝加哥不能处理现在这场可怕的‘浩劫’——2017年就有228起枪击，42人丧生（比2016年增加24％）——我会派联邦的人进去！”总统写道。
After reporters pressed Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, on Tuesday about why, if he really believed there was widespread vote fraud, the president did not order an investigation, Mr. Trump on Wednesday morning blasted out a post saying he would do just that.
周二，记者追问白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)，如果总统真的相信假选票广泛存在，那么为什么没有下令调查，后来，在周三上午，特朗普发了一条怒气冲冲的推文，说自己会这么做的。
More than any president before him, Mr. Trump is a creature of television and social media, a reality show star obsessed with Nielsen ratings who vaulted himself to the highest office in the land on the back of a robust Twitter account.
不同于以往任何总统，特朗普是电视与社交媒体的产物，是一个迷恋尼尔森(Nielsen)收视率的真人秀明星，凭着一个强悍的Twitter帐户，他得到了这片国土上最高的官位。
President Lyndon B. Johnson kept three televisions in the Oval Office so he could watch all three network nightly news broadcasts at the same time. But with the advent of the 24-hour cable television era, other presidents have made a point of shielding themselves from the nonstop chatter to avoid becoming too reactive.
林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)总统曾在椭圆办公室里放了三台电视，这样他可以同时观看所有三个电视网的夜间新闻。但是，随着24小时有线电视时代的到来，其他总统证明自己应该避开无休止的电视喧嚣，以免出现反应过度的情况。
President George W. Bush always said he avoided watching television news. (“Sorry,” he would tell television correspondents with a sheepish grin.) Mr. Obama opted instead for ESPN’s “SportsCenter” late at night.
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统总是说他尽量不看电视新闻。（“对不起了，”他会对电视记者这么说，露出一个难为情的笑容。）奥巴马则选择在深夜看ESPN台的“体育中心”(SportsCenter)节目。
Mr. Trump, on the other hand, while not much of a reader, is a voracious consumer of broadcast and social media, and it clearly guides his actions. Examples abound.
特朗普却不然，他虽然不怎么读书，却是电视和社交媒体的忠实消费者，它们显然指导着他的行为。例子比比皆是。
One morning in November after the election as he was preparing to become president, Fox News aired a segment at 6:25 a.m. on college students burning the American flag. At 6:55 a.m., Mr. Trump wrote: “Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag – if they do, there must be consequences – perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!”
大选之后，他正在为担任总统做准备，一天，福克斯新闻在上午6:25播出了一个大学生燃烧美国国旗的片段。上午6:55，特朗普在Twitter上写道：“不应该容许任何人烧国旗——如果他们这么做，就得承担后果——要么失去公民资格要么坐一年牢。”
Similarly, posts about the high cost of a new Air Force One and the F-35 fighter jet came soon after news reports rather than policy briefings.
同样，关于新的空军一号和F-35战斗机高昂成本的推文，也是在新闻报道之后很快发出，而不是在政策简报之后。
So far at least, Mr. Trump has shown that he does not believe in the restraints other presidents put on themselves. After the Dow Jones industrial average surpassed the 20,000 mark on Wednesday, Mr. Trump’s staff-managed official Twitter account sent out a message declaring it “Great!” even though other presidents made it a policy not to comment on daily market gyrations.
至少到目前为止，特朗普已经表明，他不相信其他总统在他们自己身上施加的限制。周三，道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数超过两万点后，由工作人员管理的特朗普官方Twitter帐号发了一则消息，宣布这“很棒！”，虽然其他总统都遵循不评论每日股市涨跌的原则。
The Chicago declaration provided a case in point. A threat to send federal forces into one of the nation’s largest cities — Mr. Trump did not specify whether he meant the National Guard, the F.B.I. or any other agency — is usually not one issued lightly. During Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Bush spent crucial days privately debating with aides whether to take over the National Guard in Louisiana.
芝加哥这件事的宣言也提供了一个例子。通常来说，威胁派遣联邦力量进入美国最大的城市之一——特朗普先生没有说明他是指国民警卫队、联邦调查局，还是任何其他机构——这种事可不是能随便说说的。在卡特里娜飓风期间，布什花了至关重要的几天时间，与助手私下讨论是否需要接管路易斯安那州的国民警卫队。
Mr. Trump sees little need for such deliberations before weighing in. This is, as he put it in his Inaugural Address, “the hour of action.” Whether the action will now follow the words remains uncertain less than a week into his presidency.
特朗普认为，在发表评论之前没有必要进行这样的深思熟虑。正如他在自己的就职演说中所说的那样，现在是“行动的时刻”。但他的行动与言辞是否一致，在他就职不到一个星期的时间里，情况尚不分明。