As President Barack Obama wound up his visit to Japan last month, the Japanese and American governments released a joint statement outlining the outcome of his talks with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Almost every newspaper article I saw focused on the same few issues — above all, the two leaders’ failure to reach an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation trade agreement. There was one exception: The Okinawan daily Ryukyu Shimpo ran on its front page the large headline, “U.S. Military Presence in Okinawa to Be Permanent.”
上月贝拉克·奥巴马总统结束日本之行时，日美两国政府发表了一份联合声明，概括了他此行与安倍晋三首相(Shinzo Abe)会谈的成果。我读到的报纸几乎都把注意力放在了同样的几个问题上——首当其冲的，是两位领导人没能就《泛太平洋伙伴关系协定》(Trans-Pacific Partnership)这个12国贸易协定达成一致。只有一个例外：冲绳的《琉球新报》(Ryukyu Shimpo)的头版大标题是：《美国确立在冲绳的永久军事存在》。
Ryukyu Shimpo had picked up on a sentence in the joint statement that other papers had ignored: “The early relocation of Futenma Marine Corps Air Station to Camp Schwab and consolidation of bases in Okinawa will ensure a long-term sustainable presence for U.S. forces.” Okinawans have been fighting for decades to have the Marines’ air operations removed from the entire Ryukyu archipelago. In January, residents of Nago on Okinawa Island, where Camp Schwab is located, overwhelmingly re-elected a mayor who has vowed to block the plan to resettle Futenma there, rejecting a pro-relocation candidate strongly supported by Mr. Abe’s party.
《琉球新报》抓住了联合声明中一个被其他报纸漏过的句子：“从普天间海军陆战队航空基地向施瓦布营(Camp Schwab)的初步搬迁，以及驻冲绳基地的合并，将确保美军的长期、稳固存在。”为了让美国海军陆战队停止在整个琉球群岛的航空行动，冲绳人已经抗争了数十年。今年1月，施瓦布营所在的冲绳岛名护市举行选举，许诺要阻止将普天间基地迁至本市的现任市长，以绝对优势获得连任，而得到安倍政党有力支持并赞成基地搬迁计划的候选人却遭选民冷落。
Okinawans are among the most downtrodden people in the region. In premodern times, the small Ryukyu Kingdom, as it was known then, was a tributary state of China and Japan simultaneously. Japan treated residents badly after fully annexing the islands in the 1870s. The Battle of Okinawa at the end of World War II killed one in four inhabitants. In the postwar period the United States turned the Ryukyu Islands into a military colony.
冲绳人是这个地区最受压迫的人群之一。在近代，这个当时名为琉球王国的小国要同时纳贡于中国和日本。19世纪70年代全面吞并这些岛屿后，日本对待当地居民的方式极为粗暴。第二次世界大战末期的冲绳岛战役导致四分之一的岛民丧生。到了战后时期，美国将琉球诸岛变成了军事殖民地。
Even since the islands reverted to Japan in 1972, they have been exploited for military purposes as a result of agreements between the Japanese and American governments. The strategic importance of Okinawa Prefecture to the two governments has increased recently owing to its proximity to the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands, to which both Japan and China lay claim.
这些岛屿于1972年被归还给日本，此后根据日美政府的协议进行了军事用途的开发。由于地理位置靠近日中两国都提出了领土主张的尖阁诸岛/钓鱼岛，近年来冲绳县对日美政府的战略意义在加大。
This history has instilled tenacity in the inhabitants of the Ryukyu Islands. This was demonstrated by a man who met with representatives of the Abe administration in Tokyo just days before Mr. Obama’s arrival there. Anzo Kedamori, the 72-year-old school superintendent of the small town of Taketomi, had been summoned by the Education Ministry for refusing to adopt a new, revisionist textbook in his district’s ninth-grade class.
这段历史给琉球诸岛居民的性格中注入了一股顽强的力量。就在奥巴马到访几天前，一个前往东京与安倍政府的代表会谈的人彰显了这一点。72岁的庆田盛安三(Anzo Kedamori)在小镇竹富町任学监，由于拒绝让所辖学区内的九年级使用新版的粉饰性历史教科书，受到文部省约谈。
He was not cowed. Mr. Kedamori insisted that the textbook had not been selected according to the necessary procedures, and protested its failure to discuss Japan’s callous treatment of Okinawa or the problems that the presence of American bases has caused.
他没有被吓倒。庆田盛坚称教科书的选择没有经过必要程序，并抗议书中没有对日本政府无情对待冲绳的方式加以探讨，也没有触及美国军事基地带来的问题。
The Education Ministry then summoned the superintendent for all secondary schools in Okinawa Prefecture. But he, too, declined to cooperate, saying he would respect the will of teachers in Taketomi.
文部省而后约谈了冲绳县中学总学监。但他也拒绝合作，表示要尊重竹富町老师们的意愿。
People like these two men — and the mayor of Nago, who may yet succeed in derailing the government’s plan to relocate Futenma — reveal the strength that comes to people who have been subordinated to greater powers for too long.
像这样的人——以及依然有希望令政府的普天间搬迁计划搁浅的名护市长——让我们看到，这些常年受强权压迫的民众是多么地坚强。
At the same time, in a sort of twisted way, they also embody the struggles of the Japanese government that is exploiting them as it tries to escape its reliance on the United States.
与此同时，他们又以一种扭曲的方式代表着日本政府的一种挣扎：这个政府在利用他们的同时，又在尝试逃脱对美国的依赖。
The Japanese government’s 2013 budget allocated almost $3.6 billion to cover costs associated with running American bases in Japan and providing for the 38,000 United States military personnel and their 43,000 dependents stationed there. This includes not only utility costs but also luxury housing, pools and golf courses. In 2008, the Japanese government built a middle school for 600 children of American troops at Kadena Air Base that cost twice as much, and was six times as large, as a school built nearby for 645 Japanese children.
日本政府的2013年预算有将近36亿美元（约合224亿人民币）是和驻日美军基地有关的开支，要向驻扎在那里的3.8万名美国军事人员以及4.3万名亲眷提供生活所需。其中不仅包括公用事业开支，还有豪华住宅、游泳池和高尔夫球场。2008年，日本政府为驻嘉手纳空军基地美军的600名子女建造了一座中学，其造价是附近一所有645名日本孩子就读的学校的两倍，规模是后者的六倍。
According to a statement protesting the relocation of Futenma signed by prominent scholars and peace advocates in January, Okinawa Prefecture constitutes just 0.6 percent of the total land mass of Japan, yet it houses 73.8 percent of the American military bases in the country. The bases occupy almost one-fifth of Okinawa Island alone, including prime farming land. This part of Japan is, one might say, the netherworld to which the Japanese government has tried to banish its awareness of its subordination to the United States.
众多知名学者与和平倡导人士在今年1月联署了一份声明，抗议普天间搬迁计划。声明中说，冲绳县面积仅占日本全境陆块的0.6%，却容纳了全国73.8%的美军基地。仅在冲绳岛就有将近五分之一的土地被基地占据，包括了上好的农田。可以说，在日本政府眼里，这是日本的一个灰暗地带，它一直希望能扫除那种从属于美国的感觉。