HENOKO, Japan — Orange buoys surround a wide swath of clear blue sea off the coast of Okinawa where the United States Marine Corps has long sought to build a new airfield on landfill. For more than two decades, plans for this base have gone nowhere, stymied by fierce local opposition and politicians in Tokyo without the clout or determination to overcome it.
日本边野古——冲绳县（Okinawa）沿岸宽阔的清澈蓝色海域被橙色的浮标围绕。在冲绳县，美国海军陆战队长久以来力图在当地的垃圾填埋池上建立一个新的飞机跑道。不过因为当地人士的反对和东京政客在这方面缺乏影响力和克服的决心，所以在过去20多年里，有关这个基地的各项计划都毫无进展。
But now Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is pushing ahead with construction, seeking to establish his credentials as Washington’s most important ally in Asia and to take Japan — whether it is ready or not — another step toward his vision of a “normal country” no longer held back by pacifist restraint or haunted by its wartime past.
但是如今日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)正在推进基地的建设，以此寻求建立其作为华盛顿方面在亚洲最重要盟友的资格，并且不管日本是否做好了准备，他都将带领日本采取进一步的措施，从而实现其“正常国家”的构想，使得日本不再受到反战主义的制约和战争过往的纠缠。
Daily demonstrations against the base by protesters encamped at its main gate, and the shouts of “Warmonger!” that greeted Mr. Abe on a visit to Okinawa last month, highlight what he is up against: a public that for decades has recoiled from anything resembling the militarism that led Japan into World War II.
反对者在正门驻扎，每日进行示威游行以反对基地建设。安倍晋三在上月访问冲绳县时，被民众以“战争贩子”呛声。这就突显出了他所反对的，是那些在过去十多年里畏惧任何类似军国主义的事物的民众，因为军国主义使得日本陷入了第二次世界大战。
Among residents of Okinawa, that sentiment is magnified by concerns about the environmental impact of the new base on pristine coral reefs here, frustration over crime associated with the already sizable American military presence on this southern Japanese island, and a sense that Mr. Abe is using the base to make an offering to Washington that serves his interests at the expense of their own.
冲绳县居民的这一情绪有所加剧，因为民众担心新的基地会对当地原始珊瑚礁带来环境影响，对美国军队大量驻扎在这座日本南方岛屿和其相关犯罪行为感到沮丧，并且察觉到安倍晋三把基地当做日本和华盛顿间的价码，牺牲当地居民的利益以实现自身的利益。
The result is a showdown that is emerging as one of the first big political challenges for Mr. Abe, a right-wing prime minister who has cast himself as a transformative leader trying to push through an agenda of national revival. Since taking office two and a half years ago, Mr. Abe has enjoyed high approval ratings for his efforts to engineer an economic recovery and has usually seemed to get his way because of the near collapse of the largest opposition parties.
结果就是一场最终的较量正在形成，这是安倍晋三要面临的第一个重大政治挑战之一。作为日本右翼首相，安倍晋三把自己设定为转型领导人，从而力图实现民族复兴的议程。 自上任两年半以来，安倍晋三在推动经济恢复方面得到了较高的支持率，并且因为最大在野党几近崩溃边缘，所以他似乎经常能够行其所好。
But as he begins to focus on the noneconomic pieces of his agenda, resistance is stirring not only in Okinawa but across Japan.
然而，正当他开始着手自己的非经济工作时，包括冲绳县在内的反对浪潮在全国四起。
While Mr. Abe’s coalition is firmly in control of Parliament, recent polls show public support for him beginning to slip, with more Japanese saying they oppose crucial parts of his security agenda than saying they support them. There have also been growing protests in Tokyo, including one last month that drew 30,000 demonstrators, against sweeping legislation that would ease many of the restrictions placed on Japan’s military by its postwar Constitution.
尽管安倍晋三的联合政府稳固地控制着议会，最近的民调却显示其民众支持率开始下滑，越来越多的日本民众表示对安倍晋三安全议题的关键部分持反对意见。东京地区的抗议活动也日益增多，其中上个月一次针对一项重大法案的示威活动参与人数达三万人，该法案将会解除日本军队在战后受到的诸多宪法约束。
Analysts say the legislation is almost certain to be approved, but Mr. Abe extended the current session of Parliament by more than three months into September, the longest such extension in postwar history, to give himself more time to win over public opinion and avoid the appearance of ramming the bills through.
分析人士表示，该法案几乎可以确定将会得到通过，不过安倍晋三把当前国会会期延迟3个月至9月份，此举打破其战后最长的延期记录，不过这能够给安倍晋三更多的时间来扭转民意，并且避免强行通过法案之嫌。
Central to Mr. Abe’s vision of a more proactive Japan is fulfilling a nearly two-decade-old agreement between Tokyo and Washington to relocate the busy Futenma air base, one of more than a dozen American military facilities on Okinawa, from its current site in the middle of the crowded city of Ginowan in the island’s south to Henoko Bay in its less-populated north.
在打造一个更加积极主动的日本的这一构想中，安倍晋三着重于想实现东京和华盛顿方面之间一个有着将近20年历史的协议，也就是将普天间(Futenma)空军基地从冲绳县北部拥挤的宜野湾(Ginowan)市中心迁往南部人口较为稀少的边野谷湾(Henoko Bay)。另外该基地在冲绳县有着12个美军设施。
In recent months, Mr. Abe has signaled his resolve to move ahead with construction where his predecessors stalled, by proceeding with tests of the seabed and by marking off the area with the orange buoys. That has put him on a collision course with tens of thousands of angry and increasingly radicalized Okinawans.
在最近几个月，通过对海床进行测试和用橙色浮标划分海域，安倍晋三已展现出其推动该基地建设的决心，而其前任首相都在这一问题上搁置不前。不过这使得他不得不面对成千上万民众的愤怒和激增的冲绳县居民激进情绪。
“Abe wants to use Okinawa as part of a deal with Washington to let him pursue his agenda,” said Masaaki Gabe, a professor of international relations at the University of the Ryukyus on Okinawa, noting that open American support for Mr. Abe’s program of pulling Japan out of its postwar pacifist shell would make it easier for the prime minister to win over the Japanese public.
“安倍晋三想把冲绳作为与美国进行交易的一部分筹码，以实现他自己的议程，”位于冲绳的琉球大学国际关系教授马萨奇加贝（Masaaki Gabe，音）说道，他还指出，美国公开支持安倍晋三的计划——将日本从战后和平主义的桎梏中解脱——将使他更容易争取日本公众的支持。
“Problem is, Okinawa doesn’t want to be a bargaining chip,” Mr. Gabe said. “And it is speaking out in ways that the rest of Japan has not.”
“问题是，冲绳不想做这个谈判筹码，”加贝说道。“它正以日本其他地方不曾有过的方式，大胆表达表达自己的观点。”
Unlike the often disorganized opposition that Mr. Abe faces elsewhere in Japan, his critics in Okinawa have been able to rally around a political figure: its new governor, Takeshi Onaga, a former head of the Okinawa chapter of Mr. Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party who broke with the leadership to fight the air base.
跟安倍晋三在日本其他地方遭遇的组织无序的反对派不同，他在冲绳的批评者们能够团结在一位政治人物周围——冲绳县新任知事翁长雄志(Takeshi Onaga)，他之前是执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)冲绳支部联合会干事长，后为抵制在冲绳建空军基地，与自民党总部决裂。
Since unseating a pro-base incumbent backed by Mr. Abe in December, Mr. Onaga has vowed to obstruct construction using whatever legal or moral powers he can muster as governor. But he has also stepped forward as an advocate for something new in Okinawan politics and in proudly homogeneous Japan: a budding sense of ethnic identity among the island’s residents, who in recent years have begun speaking of themselves as a minority facing discrimination by the ethnic Japanese majority.
自从在去年12月的竞选中击败背后有安倍政府支持、赞成基地建设的前任知事，翁长雄志便发誓要尽自己作为冲绳知事的所能，寻求各种法律手段或道德力量，阻止军事基地的建设。不过，他也作为冲绳政界一项新议题的倡导者走到台前，这一议题放在整个日本（基本上都属同一个民族，且以此为傲），也是首次出现：即新近在冲绳岛居民中萌生的民族认同感。最近几年，他们开始对外谈起自身作为一个少数民族，在日本遭到占人数多数的民族的歧视。
In April, Mr. Onaga drew an extended standing ovation from a stadium filled with 35,000 people protesting the base after he issued a stern warning to Mr. Abe — “Don’t mess with Okinawa!” — in his native Okinawan language, which few governors had used so openly in public before, according to political analysts.
据几位当地政治分析人士透露，今年4月份，翁长雄志在一个体育场内对3.5万抗议基地建设的群众发表讲话，其间他对安倍发出严厉警告——“不要惹恼冲绳人！”——引发全场经久不息的掌声。他是用冲绳本地语言讲这句话，此前很少有官员如此公开地使用这一方言。
He has also warned that if Mr. Abe’s government resorted to heavy-handed tactics, such as ordering the police to disperse protesters blocking construction work, more Okinawans would embrace the goal of political independence from Japan, an idea now being advocated here by a tiny minority for the first time since the United States returned the island to Japanese administration in 1972.
他还警告，如果安倍政府采取压制策略，比如命令警方驱散阻止基地建筑施工的抗议者，会促使更多冲绳人支持冲绳从日本获得政治独立。目前当地有很少数一部分人正在倡导这一想法，这是自1972年美国将冲绳岛归还日本政府以来第一次出现这种情况。
“Prime Minister Abe wants to regain Japan’s pride, but at the expense of Okinawa,” Mr. Onaga said in a recent interview. “We are not going to take that lying down.”
“安倍晋三想重获日本人的骄傲，但是是以牺牲冲绳为代价，”翁长雄志在最近接受采访时讲道。“我们不会容忍这一点。”
Eschewing the usual dark suit of a Japanese politician for a brightly colored kariyushi shirt — Okinawa’s answer to a Hawaiian shirt — Mr. Onaga, 64, held up black-and-white photographs of cars that had been set on fire during a 1970 riot in Okinawa against its postwar control by the United States. He said the same thing could happen again, but against Japanese rule, if Tokyo ignored Okinawan opposition to the base.
64岁的翁长雄志没有穿日本政客通常所穿的黑色西服，而是穿了一件颜色鲜艳的嘉利吉衬衫(kariyushi shirt)——与夏威夷花衬衫类似，具有冲绳本地特色。他举起几张黑白照片，上面是1970年为冲绳为反抗美国战后控制而发生的一场暴乱的场景，有几辆被点燃的汽车。他表示，如果东京忽视冲绳对基地建设的反对，同样的事有可能再次发生，只不过这次是为反抗日本统治。
“Japan has been using Okinawa as a pawn in its big power politics for 136 years. Enough is enough,” he said, referring to the year 1879, when a fledgling Japanese empire forcibly annexed Okinawa, then known as the independent Kingdom of the Ryukyus.
“过去136年，日本一直把冲绳当作其大国外交政策的典当品。也该停止了，”翁长雄志说道。他指的是从1879年开始，当时初出茅庐的日本明治天皇强行吞并了独立的琉球国（Kingdom of the Ryukyus，今日的冲绳）。
Mr. Abe refused to see Mr. Onaga for months after his election. When the two men finally met, just before the prime minister’s trip to Washington in late April, they appeared to speak past each other. Mr. Onaga restated his opposition to the base, while Mr. Abe said there was no alternative to the relocation plan.
翁长雄志当选冲绳知事之后，安倍晋三连着几个月拒绝接见他。二人最终见面是在安倍4月底访美之前，他们似乎都在绕着对方说话。翁长雄志重申他对基地建设的反对，安倍晋三则表示基地搬迁计划没有替代方案。
The Japanese government says the relocation will reduce the American footprint in Okinawa’s more densely populated southern half and improve safety for the island’s population. But the local opposition has argued that Futenma — and other bases — should be moved off Okinawa altogether, because a disproportionate share of the American military’s facilities in Japan are on the island compared with other parts of the country.
日本政府表示，基地搬迁将减少美国在冲绳人口更为密集的南部地区的军事存在，提高冲绳居民的安全程度。但当地反对派称，普天间机场和其他美国军事基地应该被一并从冲绳移走，因为就其面积而言，冲绳岛上的美国军事设施比其他地区多太多。
The Americans say the base must remain on Okinawa to keep its aircraft near their main users, the Marine ground forces also stationed here. The Pentagon originally agreed to relocate the base following the outcry over the 1995 rape case of a schoolgirl by three American servicemen. More than 25,000 American military personnel are stationed across Okinawa.
美国则表示，该基地必须在冲绳重建，这样它的飞机才能接近其主要使用者——同样驻扎在此的海军和陆军部队。1995年三名美国军人强奸一名日本中学生的事件引发强烈抗议之时，五角大楼原本同意迁出该基地。如今，共有2.5万多名美国军事人员驻扎在冲绳。
With neither Mr. Abe nor Mr. Onaga showing any sign of backing down, anger here has only grown shriller. Last month, at a ceremony to mark the 70th anniversary of the fierce World War II battle for Okinawa, residents heckled Mr. Abe — rare in normally staid Japan — as he addressed a gathering that included the American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy.
翁长雄志和安倍进山都无任何让步的迹象，这一地区的愤怒情绪已经愈演愈烈。安倍晋三面在上月举行的二战冲绳战役70周年纪念活动中发表讲话时，遭到当地人的起哄，这在一贯比较古板的日本民众中非常少见。美国驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)也出席了此次活动。
“The people of Okinawa have been bearing a great burden for Japan’s security,” Mr. Abe said, striking a sympathetic note as he ignored the hecklers, mostly older Okinawan men.
安倍忽略场下起哄的人（大部分是上了年纪的冲绳男性居民），用略带同情的语调讲道，“冲绳人民一直在为整个日本的安全背负着沉重的负担。”
Polls show that most residents oppose the new airfield and that sympathy for their cause is growing among Japanese elsewhere, too. Analysts said Mr. Abe’s political standing would suffer serious damage if he pushed ahead with construction and protesters were injured, which would allow his opponents to cast him as a callous villain determined to build the air base regardless of the human cost.
民意调查显示，大部分当地居民反对建设新机场，而其他地区对冲绳抗争表示同情的日本人也正在增多。分析人士表示，如果安倍晋三继续推进机场建设，伤害抗议者的感情，有可能会严重影响他的政治地位，因为这给他的政敌以可乘之机，将他描述为不计人员伤亡执意建设空军基地的无情反派人物。
Such an incident seemed a distinct possibility on a recent morning outside the gate of Camp Schwab, where pre-construction tests of the seabed had begun. As large desert-yellow and olive Marine trucks rumbled out of the gate, demonstrators rushed from their tents, some into the road, to shout and wave placards.
从最近一个早上施瓦布营（施工前的海床探测工作已经在此地展开）门外出现的情况看，此类伤亡事故发生的可能性似乎非常大。当海军陆战队土黄色和橄榄色的大卡车隆隆驶出大门，抗议者们马上从自己的帐篷里冲出来，有些跑到路中间，大声叫喊和挥舞标语牌。
Masaru Shiroma, 69, the leader of about 200 protesters gathered that day, said he and his comrades would do everything they could, including lying down in front of the gate, to stop vehicles if construction starts.
这个大约200人的抗议者队伍的领导者是69岁的胜部城间(Masaru Shiroma)，他表示，一旦施工开始，他的同志们会尽其所能，包括躺倒在大门前，以阻止车辆驶出大门。