It’s fashion month, that four-city marathon of clothes and celebrities that matters to everyone because it determines what we will wear and, at least partly, how we will spend our money come 2016.
跨越四城、将有众多名人和服装亮相的时装周开始了。它与我们所有人都有关系，因为它将决定我们在2016年穿什么，至少会部分决定我们将如何花钱。
This season there’s ever more competition for eyeballs and attention, with the presidential primary debates picking up steam, awards season kicking off with the Emmys, Apple unveiling its latest collections and various major international geopolitical happenings.
这一季，争夺眼球和关注的竞争将更加激烈，因为总统预选辩论愈演愈烈；艾美奖即将拉开颁奖季的大幕；苹果公司推出了最新系列；各种重大国际地缘政治事件不断发生。
But this season is also one of the buzziest in recent years. So in the interest of efficiency (because why not consume our fashion and world events, too?), the following is a crib sheet for what to watch in New York, London, Milan and Paris from now to Oct. 8.
不过，这一季也是近些年最喧闹的一季。所以为了提高效率（何不也消费一下我们的时尚和世界性的活动呢？），我们准备了下面这个小记，盘点一下从现在到10月8日在纽约、伦敦、米兰和巴黎的关注重点。
1. Designer Musical Chairs
1. 设计师抢椅子游戏
It starts in New York, with the reinvention of DKNY under Maxwell Osborne and Dao-Yi Chow, founders of the fashion label Public School, who took the reins in April at the brand Donna Karan built. This is a big deal: With the retirement of Ms. Karan from the house bearing her name, the Donna Karan main line has been suspended. It’s up to Mr. Osborne and Mr. Chow to define the brand now. Their DKNY show comes a mere three days after their Public School show, raising the pressure. How will they handle the dual roles?
这场游戏始于在纽约DKNY的革新。今年4月，时装品牌公立学校(Public School)的创始人马克斯韦尔·奥斯本(Maxwell Osborne)和周道一(Dao-Yi Chow)开始接管唐娜·卡兰(Donna Karan)创立的品牌DKNY。这是个大事件：卡兰从这个以她命名的公司退休后，唐娜·卡兰主品牌被暂停。现在轮到奥斯本和周道一来阐释这个品牌了。DKNY时装秀仅在公立学校时装秀之后三天就举行，压力很大。他们将如何处理自己的双重角色呢？
Meanwhile, Zac Posen will be showing his first full-fledged Brooks Brothers women’s wear line, along with his own line and his ZAC Zac Posen collection, and Coach will unveil its first runway show.
与此同时，扎克·波森(Zac Posen)将展示他为布鲁克斯兄弟(Brooks Brothers)设计的第一个女装全系列，以及他自己的服装系列和ZAC Zac Posen系列。蔻驰(Coach)也将推出自己的第一场时装秀。
Givenchy and The Row have swapped positions, with Givenchy coming to New York for a blowout show in celebration of its new Manhattan flagship. The event will include men’s wear and couture as well as women’s wear, and all before more than 800 lucky members of the public who managed to secure tickets from an online offer.
纪梵希(Givenchy)和The Row互换地点。为了庆祝在曼哈顿新开的旗舰店，纪梵希将在纽约举办一场盛大的时装秀，包括男装、高级定制时装和女装。800多名幸运观众将见证这一切，他们是在网上抢到票的。
By contrast, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen of The Row are trading Manhattan for Paris for reasons they have refused to explain.
而The Row的设计师玛丽-凯特(Mary-Kate)和阿什莉·奥尔森(Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen)则放弃曼哈顿，改去巴黎举办时装秀。她们拒绝透露原因。
Elsewhere on the fashion calendar, London is hosting two major debuts: Anthony Vaccarello’s first official catwalk show for Versus (expect short! print! sexy!) and the unveiling of the former Mulberry designer Emma Hill’s new Hill & Friends.
在时装周日程上，我们还能看到，将有两场重要的首秀在伦敦举行——安东尼·瓦卡雷洛(Anthony Vaccarello)在Versus的第一场正式时装秀（期待短小！印花！性感！）；还有Mulberry前设计师艾玛·希尔(Emma Hill)创立的新品牌Hill & Friends的首秀。
Off the official schedule but also worth noting is the introduction of Hillier Bartley, the first stand-alone label from Luella Bartley and Katie Hillier, the former Marc by Marc Jacobs designers and Cool Britannia names.
还有一场时装秀不在官方日程上但同样值得关注：卢埃拉·巴特利(Luella Bartley)和凯蒂·希利尔(Katie Hillier)创立的第一个独立品牌Hillier Bartley的首秀。她们曾是马克·雅可布之马克(Marc by Marc Jacobs)的设计师，也是酷不列颠(Cool Britannia)的名人。
And in Milan, Peter Dundas, late of Emilio Pucci, makes his debut at Roberto Cavalli; Massimo Giorgetti, of MSGM, showcases his vision for Pucci, which rumor has it is heavy on the daywear; and Arthur Arbesser, LVMH Prize finalist, bows at Iceberg.
在米兰，璞琪(Emilio Pucci)的前设计师彼得·邓达斯(Peter Dundas)将推出自己在罗伯托·卡瓦利(Roberto Cavalli)的首秀；MSGM的设计师马西莫·焦尔杰蒂(Massimo Giorgetti)将展示自己对璞琪的阐释，据说他的系列偏重日间服饰；路威酩轩奖金(LVMH Prize)获得者阿瑟·阿贝斯(Arthur Arbesser)将在Iceberg的秀台上向观众致意。
2. Farewells and Absences
2. 告别和缺席
Donna Karan isn’t the only brand missing from a fashion week schedule. Marc by Marc Jacobs is also no more, absorbed into the Marc Jacobs main line, which will have fashion viewers playing Spot the Item during the show, as they try to parse which piece came from where (if it’s even possible to tell).
唐娜·卡兰不是唯一一个缺席时装周的品牌。马克·雅可布之马克(Marc by Marc Jacobs)也被融入马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)主品牌中。主品牌将请观众在时装秀过程中玩Spot the Item游戏，就是找出哪件衣服来自哪里（如果真能分辨出来的话）。
Also saying adieu is Alexander Wang, who will stage his last Balenciaga show as he leaves the French label to concentrate on his own house, which turns 10 this year. His departure was announced at the end of July, but no successor has been named, which should have showgoers looking for tells in the schedule of Grita Loebsack, Kering’s new chief executive of luxury, emerging brands, who will be making her public debut at the shows.
即将告别的还有王大仁(Alexander Wang)。他将举办在巴黎世家(Balenciaga)的最后一场时装秀，然后离开这个法国品牌，专注于自己的同名品牌，后者到今年已有十个年头。他将离开的消息是今年7月底宣布的，但是尚未任命继任者。开云集团(Kering)负责新兴奢侈品牌的新首席执行官格里塔·罗布塞克(Grita Loebsack)将在时装周期间首次公开亮相，观众们一定想从她的日程安排上寻找线索。
Perhaps the only event at which executive reactions will be analyzed more closely is Céline, as rumors flew during the summer that the designer Phoebe Philo was contemplating severing her ties with the brand. Though the house has pooh-poohed the gossip, whispers persist.
人们唯一可能更关心的是思琳(Céline)首席执行官在时装秀上的反应，因为今年夏天有传言说，思琳的设计师菲比·菲洛(Phoebe Philo)在考虑割断与该品牌的联系。虽然该公司否认了这些传言，但是人们仍在议论。
Tom Ford, erstwhile London Fashion Week star, has become fashion’s Greta Garbo. Last season, he skipped the usual big cities to show in Los Angeles pre-Oscars, but this season, he has been silent about his plans. He is not on the London Fashion Week schedule, and all his office will say is, “Details will be forthcoming, but it will not be a traditional show.” He is in the midst of directing his second feature film, “Nocturnal Animals,” so presumably geography and scheduling may play a part.
汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)曾是伦敦时装周的明星，如今他成了时装界的葛丽泰·嘉宝(Greta Garbo)。上一季，他没有在任何一个时装之都举办时装秀，而是在奥斯卡颁奖礼前夕在洛杉矶举办了时装秀。但是这一季，他对自己的计划三缄其口。伦敦时装周的日程上没有他的时装秀，他的办公室只说，“会很快公布细节，不过不会是传统的时装秀。”他正在导演自己的第二部电影——《夜行动物》(Nocturnal Animals)，所以地理位置和日程可能都是考虑因素。
3. Trend to Watch
3. 要关注的流行趋势
Ever since the Apple Watch placed wearables front and center in the public consciousness and Instagram won the Council of Fashion Designers of America media award, the tech and fashion love affair has been getting increasingly hot and heavy.
自从苹果手表让可穿戴技术引起公众极大关注，Instagram获得美国时装设计师协会(Council of Fashion Designers of America)的最佳媒体奖之后，技术和时装的关系越来越亲密。
Indeed, this season will be something of a public display of affection, especially in New York, with brands having moved from first base (tech accessories such as iPod holders) to something altogether more intense. Seemingly almost every platform wants in on the relationship.
的确，这一季它们的恋情将公开曝光，特别是在纽约，有些品牌已经从一垒（比如iPod支架等科技产品配件）发展到更亲密的阶段了。几乎每个平台都想参与到这段关系中去。
Intel is sponsoring New York Fashion Week, complete with drones flying overhead at certain shows to “provide a different perspective on the red carpet,” according to Brian M. Krzanich, Intel’s chief executive, as well as an installation of MemoryMirrors at the New York Fashion Week headquarters. They are effectively “smart mirrors” that allow users to try on different outfits and then compare them, as the mirror remembers the image and alters it as the user instructs. Intel is also collaborating with Chromat, CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund finalists, on the runway to give wearables a new shape (literally).
据英特尔公司(Intel)的首席执行官布赖恩·M·克尔扎尼奇(Brian M. Krzanich)说，该公司将赞助纽约时装周，在某些时装秀上派出无人机，“从不同角度拍摄红毯盛况”，并在纽约时装周总部装置了记忆魔镜(MemoryMirrors)。这些镜子非常“智能”，能让使用者试穿不同的服装并进行比较，因为它们能记住那些形象，并按照使用者的指示进行修改。英特尔公司还与服装公司Chromat合作，在秀台上呈现可穿戴设备的新面貌。Chromat是美国时装设计师协会和《Vogue》时装基金的获得者。
Then there are Misha Nonoo, which has eschewed a traditional catwalk entirely in favor of an “Insta-show” (a show via Instagram); Zac Posen, who has teamed with Google to create a little black dress for his ZAC Zac Posen line that was “coded” by girls via the Google Made With Code site so the dress displays a pattern created by moving LED lights; and Ralph Lauren, which is live-streaming its show to Piccadilly Circus in London via Periscope.
另外，Misha Nonoo时装公司完全不举办传统的时装秀，而是举办Insta-show（通过Instagram展示的时装秀）。扎克·波森与谷歌合作，为他的ZAC Zac Posen系列创作了一件小黑裙。它是女孩们利用谷歌的Made With Code网站“编码”创作的，所以小黑裙上可以显示由跳动的LED灯组成的图案。拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)通过Periscope网站在伦敦的皮卡迪利广场(Piccadilly Circus)直播自己的时装秀。
Finally, Twitter and Instagram are co-hosting official New York Fashion Week parties to kick everything off, and Snapchat will house two “official” fashion week stories: Sunday and Wednesday.
Twitter和Instagram将联合举办纽约时装周的正式派对，为时装周揭幕。Snapchat将举办两场“正式的”时装周活动：周日和周三的活动。
In other words, even before fashion week begins, we have this season’s first bona fide trend.
换句话说，甚至在时装周开始前，这一季的第一个真正的潮流已经开始。