Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump hopscotched from Pennsylvania to North Carolina to Michigan on Monday in the final, frenzied hours of the presidential campaign, offering clashing closing arguments as the sprawling map of the United States was reduced to a string of must-win states.
星期一，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)从宾夕法尼亚州飞到北卡罗来纳州，再到密歇根州，他们在竞选最后时刻全力冲刺，做出互相冲突的总结陈词，美国广袤的版图，被简化成一连串他们必须拿下的州。
With time running out and polls showing a close race, they delivered urgent and explicit pleas to their supporters and skeptics.
随着时间临近，民调显示选情胶着，两人向各自的支持者和怀疑者发出了急切而明确的呼吁。
Mrs. Clinton gave a sunny and optimistic summation of her candidacy for the White House as she embarked on a four-state tour.
克林顿前往四个州拉选票时，对自己主掌白宫的未来进行了美好而乐观的总结。
“Tomorrow, you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America,” she told a crowd in Pittsburgh. “Our core values are being tested in this election.”
“明天，你们可以投票给一个充满希望、包容、大度的美国，”她在匹兹堡的一个集会上说。“我们的核心价值将在这次选举中经受考验。”
Mr. Trump, who was campaigning in five states on Monday, took a darker approach, assailing the “crooked media,” attacking a “corrupt Washington establishment” and mocking Mrs. Clinton over and over.
星期一特朗普去了五个州，他采取了一种偏负面的方法，批判“奸诈的媒体”，攻击“腐败的华盛顿建制势力”，并一遍又一遍地嘲弄克林顿。
“It’s a rigged, rigged system,” Mr. Trump declared in Raleigh, N.C. “And now it’s up to the American people to deliver the justice that we deserve at the ballot box tomorrow.”
“这是一个受到操纵的体制，”特朗普在北卡罗来纳州的罗利宣布。“明天是否要到投票站去声张我们应得的正义，决定权现在是在美国人民的手中了。”
As the campaign wound down, both candidates dispensed with ritual. Mrs. Clinton, who relishes upbraiding her rival, abandoned her usual assault on Mr. Trump’s conduct and temperament. And Mr. Trump, who normally seeks to convey confidence at all times, sounded uncharacteristically vulnerable.
随着竞选活动进入尾声，两位候选人都放弃了惯常的做法。克林顿往往喜欢谴责对手，现在却放弃了对特朗普的行为和性情的一贯攻击。特朗普通常不放弃任何机会表达自己的信心，现在他的话听起来脆弱得不像出自他之口。
“They say we’ll get a tremendous amount of credit, win or lose,” he said during a rally in Sarasota, Fla. “I said: ‘No, no, no, no. I don’t want any credit if we lose.’”
“他们说我们无论是赢是输，都会获得巨大赞誉，”他在佛罗里达州萨拉索塔的一次集会上说，“我说：‘不，不，不，不。如果我们输了，我不想要任何赞誉。”
There are signs that despite the ugliness of this campaign, turnout in states that allow early voting is high, and Americans are seizing the opportunity to express themselves in voting booths.
有迹象表明，尽管这场竞选相当丑陋，在提前投票的州，投票率却很高。美国人正在抓住这个机会，去投票站表达自己的主张。
In interviews, several said they were determined to choose a side in this unusual, exhausting and still suspenseful election.
在访谈中，不少人说他们决心在这个不同寻常、令人疲惫、仍然充满悬念的选举中选择一方。
“I’m totally ready for this election to be over,” said Mary Hoch, 54, who attended Mr. Trump’s rally in Sarasota with a “Make America Great Again” hat on her head and a “Deplorable Lives Matter” pin on her shirt.
“我完全准备好看到这次选举的结束了。”54岁的玛丽·霍奇(Mary Hoch)说。她头上戴着“恢复美利坚的伟大荣光”的帽子，衣服上别着“遭人唾弃的命也是命”徽章，参加了特朗普在萨拉索塔的集会。
Both Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton sent their running mates, families and allies across the country to maximize their reach in crucial swing states. Mr. Trump relied on his three oldest children — Ivanka, Eric and Donald Jr. — as well as Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, and Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska and 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee.
特朗普和克林顿各自派遣了竞选搭档、家人和盟友到全国各地，尽量在关键的摇摆州扩大影响。特朗普这边有他三个年龄最长的子女——伊万卡，埃里克和小唐纳德——以及前纽约市长鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)和前阿拉斯加州长、2008年共和国副总统提名人莎拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)。
Mrs. Clinton deployed President Obama and former President Bill Clinton, as well as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the first lady, Michelle Obama, perhaps the most popular political figure in the country.
克林顿这边则派出了奥巴马总统、前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)、副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)以及第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)，后者也许是美国最受欢迎的政治人物。
Mrs. Clinton’s running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, spent much of the day campaigning in North Carolina, which Mr. Obama won in 2008 but lost four years later to Mitt Romney.
克林顿夫妇的竞选搭档、弗吉尼亚的参议员蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)把大部分时间花在了北卡罗来纳州。奥巴马2008年在这个州获得了胜利，但四年后却输给了米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)。
“It’s great to see a finish line, isn’t it?” Mr. Kaine said at an outdoor rally in Charlotte.
“看到终点线太好了，不是吗？”凯恩在夏洛特的一次户外集会上说。
He expressed confidence in the ticket’s chances on Tuesday, but warned supporters against complacency and implored voters to seize the chance to elect the nation’s first female president.
星期二，他表示相信会在选举中获得胜利，但也告诫支持者不要自满，并呼吁选民抓住机会，选出本国第一位女总统。
“Every election is important, but not every election will change history,” he said. “If we do what we know how to do, this election will change history.”
“每次选举都很重要，但不是每次选举都会改变历史，”他说。“如果我们按照自己知道的方式行事，那么这次选举就会改变历史。”
Mr. Trump’s running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, started the day with a brisk jog across a windswept tarmac in an unlikely spot for a Republican: Duluth, Minn. It was the Republican ticket’s second stop in deep-blue Minnesota in two days, and though few signs point to a Republican upset there, a modest crowd near Mr. Pence’s plane lapped up his attacks on Mrs. Clinton.
特朗普的竞选搭档、印第安纳州州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)当天去了明尼苏达州的德卢斯。共和党人去那个地方非常出人意料。他轻快地小步跑过一个停机坪，这是共和党在深蓝色的明尼苏达州拉票的第二站，虽然几乎没有迹象表明共和党会在那里有所作为，仍然有一小群人在彭斯的飞机附近瞩目倾听他对克林顿的攻击。
“It’s almost hard to keep up, all the headlines, all the scandals flowing out of just her years as secretary of state,” Mr. Pence said. Even the weeks-old jokes he laced in seemed to have a new energy.
“在当国务卿那些年，她登上头条新闻的各种丑闻看都看不完，”彭斯说。即便他穿插的笑话来自几周之前，似乎也具有了一种新的能量。
“In one day, the American people can put an end to decades of Clinton corruption,” he said. “You here in Minnesota can close the book on the Clintons once and for all.”
“终有一天，美国人民可以终结克林顿几十年来的腐败，”他说。“明尼苏达州人可以一劳永逸地把克林顿这一页翻过去。”
Mr. Trump seemed sensitive to the fact that his final 48 hours on the campaign trail lacked the celebrity star power drawn to Mrs. Clinton, who was accompanied by musicians like Jay Z and Beyoncé and was scheduled to campaign in Philadelphia on Monday night with the rock legend Bruce Springsteen. (Her surrogates have 51 Grammy Awards between them.)
特朗普似乎很介怀的一件事，是在竞选的最后48小时里，他没有像克林顿那样有名人明星助阵，比如艺人Jay Z和碧昂斯(Beyoncé)就计划星期一晚上在费城与传奇摇滚巨星布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)参加竞选活动。（克林顿的支持者们共获得了51个格莱美奖）。
“Beyoncé and Jay Z,” Mr. Trump said. “I like them.” But, he added mischievously, “I get bigger crowds than they do.”
“碧昂丝和Jay Z，”特朗普说。“我喜欢他们。”但是，他戏谑说，“我比他们拥有更多听众。”
He was not finished.
他还没有说完。
“Is there any place better to be than a Trump rally?” he asked his audience in North Carolina. “We’re having fun. And I don’t have a guitar and I don’t have a piano.”
“还有什么地方能比特朗普集会更好的吗？”他问北卡罗来纳的听众。“我们很开心。而且我没有吉他，也没有钢琴。”