THE blackouts that left hundreds of millions of Indians sweltering in the dark last month underscored the status of air-conditioning as one of the world’s most vexing environmental quandaries.
上个月印度发生了大停电，几亿印度人在黑暗之中闷热难耐，充分凸显了空调系统是世界上最恼人的环境难题之一。
Fact 1: Nearly all of the world’s booming cities are in the tropics and will be home to an estimated one billion new consumers by 2025. As temperatures rise, they — and we — will use more air-conditioning.
事实一：几乎世界上所有的新兴城市都处在热带地区，据估计，到2025年，这些地区将会有10亿新增空调用户。随着气温升高，他们，还有我们，将会更多地使用空调。
Fact 2: Air-conditioners draw copious electricity, and deliver a double whammy in terms of climate change, since both the electricity they use and the coolants they contain result in planet-warming emissions.
事实二：空调耗电量巨大，同时还对气候变化有双重影响。因为空调所消耗的电能，以及空调中的冷却剂，都引起温室气体的排放。
Fact 3: Scientific studies increasingly show that health and productivity rise significantly if indoor temperature is cooled in hot weather. So cooling is not just about comfort.
事实三：科学研究越来越多地表明，在高温天气中，降低室内温度将会显著地提高人们的健康状况和工作效率。所以，降低温度不仅仅是为了舒适。
Sum up these facts and it’s hard to escape: Today’s humans probably need air-conditioning if they want to thrive and prosper. Yet if all those new city dwellers use air-conditioning the way Americans do, life could be one stuttering series of massive blackouts, accompanied by disastrous planet-warming emissions.
综上所述，有个事实难以回避：当今的人类如果想要兴旺和繁荣，很可能离不开空调。然而，如果所有新兴城市的居民都像美国人那样使用空调，那么生活就很可能是一场接一场的大停电，同时还伴随着灾难性的温室气体排放。
We can’t live with air-conditioning, but we can’t live without it.
空调能毁了我们，可是我们又离不开空调。
“It is true that air-conditioning made the economy happen for Singapore and is doing so for other emerging economies,” said Pawel Wargocki, an expert on indoor air quality at the International Center for Indoor Environment and Energy at the Technical University of Denmark. “On the other hand, it poses a huge threat to global climate and energy use. The current pace is very dangerous.”
“空调系统让新加坡，以及其他新兴经济体的经济腾飞，这是事实，”丹麦技术大学(Technical University of Denmark)国际室内环境与能源研究中心(International Center for Indoor Environment and Energy)的室内空气质量专家帕维尔·沃戈基(Pawel Wargocki)说。“从另一方面来说，空调系统给全球气候及能源使用都带来了极大威胁。当前的发展速度十分危险。”
Projections of air-conditioning use are daunting. In 2007, only 11 percent of households in Brazil and 2 percent in India had air-conditioning, compared with 87 percent in the United States, which has a more temperate climate, said Michael Sivak, a research professor in energy at the University of Michigan. “There is huge latent demand,” Mr. Sivak said. “Current energy demand does not yet reflect what will happen when these countries have more money and more people can afford air-conditioning.” He has estimated that, based on its climate and the size of the population, the cooling needs of Mumbai alone could be about a quarter of those of the entire United States, which he calls “one scary statistic.”
预计未来对空调的使用趋势将会十分严峻。2007年，巴西仅有11%的家庭有空调，印度有2%，而在气候更为温和的美国，这个数字是87%，密歇根大学(University of Michigan)能源研究教授迈克尔·西瓦克(Michael Sivak)表示。“潜在的需求量很大，”西瓦克说。“目前的能源需求并没有反映出，等这些国家变得更加富裕，更多人买得起空调费用的时候，将会发生什么。”以当地气候条件和人口数量为基础，他预计，仅孟买这一座城市对空调的需求量就将达到整个美国的四分之一，他说这是“一个骇人的数字”。
It is easy to decry the problem but far harder to know what to do, especially in a warming world where people in the United States are using our existing air-conditioners more often. The number of cooling degree days — a measure of how often cooling is needed — was 17 percent above normal in the United States in 2010, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, leading to “an increase in electricity demand.” This July was the hottest ever in the United States.
对这些问题进行谴责很容易，但找到应对措施的难度却要大得多。特别是在这个逐渐变暖的世界里，美国人使用现有空调系统的频率比以前更高了。根据美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)的统计数据，2010年，美国冷度日的天数（一种衡量需要人为降温的频率的指标）高出正常水平17%，导致“电力需求增加”。今年7月是美国有史以来最热的。
Likewise, the blackouts in India were almost certainly related to the rising use of air-conditioning and cooling, experts say, even if the immediate culprit was a grid that did not properly balance supply and demand.
专家表示，同样地，印度的大停电必然也与空调和制冷的使用量增加有关，虽然直接的罪魁祸首仍是不能很好平衡供应与需求的输电网络。
“Cooling is the craze in India — everyone loves cool temperatures and getting to cool temperatures as quickly as possible,” said Rajendra Shende, chairman of the Terre Policy Center in Pune, India.. He said that cooling has become such a cultural priority that rather than advertise a car’s acceleration, salesmen in India now emphasize how fast its air-conditioner can cool.
印度浦那地球政策中心(Terre Policy Center)主任拉金德拉·申德(Rajendra Shende)说，“印度人对空调制冷非常狂热——每个人都喜欢凉爽，越快凉下来越好。”制冷已经成了一个文化上的首要关注点，以至于印度的汽车经销商不去宣传汽车加速能力，而是强调他们的空调制冷速度有多快 。
Scientists are scrambling to invent more efficient air-conditioners and better coolant gases to minimize electricity use and emissions. But so far the improvements have been dwarfed by humanity’s rising demands.
科学家在加紧发明更多高效能空调设施，以及更好的气体冷却剂，以减少电能消耗和废气排放。但目前看来，与人们的需求增长相比，这些改进显得微不足道。
And recent efforts to curb the use of air-conditioning, by fiat or persuasion, have produced sobering lessons.
近来，为了减少空调的使用，政府通过命令或说服的手段进行了一系列努力，其中的教训发人深省。
Since 2005, Japan had been promoting energy conservation through its annual summer “cool biz” campaign: air-conditioning thermostats in government offices were set to between 75 and 77 degrees and workers were told they could forsake business suits for looser, cooler clothes. So far so good.
自2005以来，日本一直通过年度夏季“清凉商务”运动来推行能源节约。在这个运动中，政府办公室内的空调恒温器被设定在华氏75到77度之间，工作人员可以不必穿商务套装，而穿着更随意、更凉爽的衣服来上班。目前为止，效果还好。 
But in the past year, the country became an unwitting laboratory to study even more extreme air-conditioning abstinence, and the results have not been encouraging. After the Fukushima earthquake and tsunami knocked out a big chunk of the country’s nuclear power, the Japanese government mandated vastly reduced energy consumption. To that end, lights have been dimmed and air-conditioners turned down or off, so that offices comply with the government-prescribed indoor summer temperature of 82.4 degrees (28 Celsius); some offices have tried as high as 86.
但是去年，日本不自觉地变成了一个实验场，试验更加严格的空调节制，结果并不让人鼓舞。福岛地震和海啸摧毁了日本大部分核能设施，于是，日本政府下令大幅度降低能源消耗。为了达到这个目的，灯光被调暗，空调被调小或关掉，以便使办公室达到政府规定的华氏82.4度（28摄氏度）的室温标准；还有些办公室设定的温度高达华氏86度。
Unfortunately, studies by Shin-ichi Tanabe, a professor of architecture at Waseda University in Tokyo who has long been interested in “thermal comfort,” found that while workers tolerated dimmer light just fine, every degree rise in temperature above 25 Celsius (77 degrees Fahrenheit) resulted in a 2 percent drop in productivity. Over the course of the day that meant they accomplished 30 minutes less work, he said.
不幸的是，东京早稻田大学(Waseda University)建筑系研究气温舒适度的田边新一教授(Shin-ichi Tanabe)发现，员工虽然能较好地忍受暗淡的灯光，但温度高于25摄氏度（华氏77度）时，气温每增加一度，生产率就下降2％。他说，这意味着工人们一天少干了30分钟的活。
Other studies have found that with office temperatures between 82 and 86 degrees, symptoms like headache, drowsiness and difficulty concentrating increase, which may explain the drop in performance.
其他一些研究发现，办公室温度在华氏82到86度之间时，头疼、困倦、注意力难以集中等症状就会增加，这可能是工作效率降低的原因。
Worse still, perhaps, Mr. Tanabe calculated that the suffering was all for naught: When offices were kept above about 82 degrees, so many people were using inefficient fans at their desks that the total electricity consumption could be higher than if the building had been better cooled. “That’s just stupid,” he said.
更糟糕的是，据田边推算，受这样的苦很可能毫无意义：当办公室温度保持在华氏82度以上时，许多人都会打开办公桌上的电风扇，风扇的效率更低，这样一来，总用电量可能会比整个大楼有比较好的空调制冷更高。 
Some studies from hot and humid Singapore also show that cooler is better when it comes to office work, said Mr. Wargocki, who is currently a visiting researcher at the National University there. Though people in Singapore tend to identify a range from about 68 to 75 degrees as “neutral” temperature — neither hot nor cold — studies found that work improved if the thermostat was lowered to about 72. “It’s a huge problem if we have to cool buildings in tropical environments to that level, in terms of energy use and climate,” Mr. Wargocki said.
沃戈基目前是新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)的一位访问研究员。他表示，在炎热潮湿的新加坡，一些研究显示，较低的室温更有利于工作。虽然新加坡人倾向于认为华氏68—75度属于“适中的”温度，不热也不冷，但研究发现，如果将温度降到华氏72度左右，工作效率会更高。“在热带环境下，将温度降到那个程度对能源使用和气候来说是个大问题。”
And that is where the bulk of new demand will occur. A new report by the McKinsey Global Initiative predicts that one billion city dwellers “will enter the global consuming class by 2025.” And, for most of them, an air-conditioner will most likely be a first purchase since almost all of the cities with the highest potential cooling needs are in developing countries that are in hot climates. Sales of air-conditioning units are already growing by double digits annually in many emerging economies.
而对空调的新需求中有大部分都将来自热带地区。麦肯锡全球研究小组(McKinsey Global Initiative)发布的新报告预测，到2025年，将会新增10亿城市居民“跻身全球消费阶层”。而且，对其中大多数人来说，空调最有可能成为首选商品，因为几乎所有空调需求潜力巨大的城市都在气候炎热的发展中国家。在许多新兴经济体，空调设备的销售量已经在以每年两位数的速度增长了 。
So researchers say the best hope is that we all adjust our air-conditioning expectations and behavior.
所以研究人员表示，最大的希望在于我们都能调整对空调的期望，改变自己的使用行为。
Building managers could increase airflow in hot buildings, for example, which improves comfort. Workers could wear lighter, looser clothing to work in summer — instead of carrying sweaters to protect themselves from over-chilled air. Architects could design office blocks using materials that did not conduct so much heat and where humans could open the windows to take advantage of natural ventilation and breezes.
比如，大楼管理者可以增加闷热建筑物里的空气流通，提高舒适度。夏天，人们可以穿轻便、宽松的服装去上班，而不必带着毛衣以防气温太低。建筑师也可以使用隔热的材料来设计办公大楼，并且让人们可以打开窗户，更好的利用自然通风。
Stan Cox, author of “Losing Our Cool,” suggests that one solution might be a return to room air-conditioning, so we only use energy to cool spaces that people are actually using. He believes that people are accustomed to working in frigid offices but could acclimatize to warmer conditions.
《凉意渐失》(Losing Our Cool)的作者斯坦·考克斯(Stan Cox)建议，重新使用室内空调，这样我们就能只给那些真正有人使用的空间降温。他认为，虽然人们已经习惯在温度较低的办公室工作，但他们能够经过自身调适，适应温度稍高的环境。
Mr. Wargocki says that an office temperature in the mid to high 70s should be fine. The comfortable temperature for sleeping (naked) is around 84, Mr. Tanabe says, if a fan is on.
沃戈基表示，在办公室，华氏75度以上，80度以下的室温是可以的。田边表示，睡觉时（裸睡），如果开着电风扇，华氏84度左右的室温较为舒适。
Those suggestions are a good deal warmer than the norms in the United States, which underlines a cultural differences in cooling preferences.
这些建议比美国的温度标准高出很多，这凸显了各地区在温度偏好方面的文化差异。
“The temperature many Americans find most comfortable indoors in summer — 70 degrees — feels uncomfortable to most Europeans, who find it too cold,” said Mr. Sivak.
西瓦克说，“许多美国人认为夏季最舒适的室内温度是华氏70度，而大多数欧洲人认为这个温度太低，不舒服。”
Unfortunately many tropical places — including Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong — seem to have followed the United States’ lead in cooling preferences, Mr. Tanabe said, holding cooler to be better.
田边表示，不幸的是，包括新加坡、马来西亚和香港在内的许多热带地区都与美国一样，偏爱低温，越凉越好。
But certainly if I deserve to have an air-conditioner here in New York, my counterpart in Mumbai deserves to have one, too. So individuals need to be coaxed to make new choices.
但可以肯定的是，如果我在纽约应该有台空调，那在孟买的人也该有。所以需要慢慢说服人们，做出新选择。
“We need to educate people there are other ways to be comfortable than just turning up the A.C., you have to use it wisely,” said Mr. Wargocki, speaking from his condo in Singapore with the windows open late one evening to create natural drafts for cooling.
沃戈基表示，“我们需要让人们知道，除了打开空调之外，还可以用其他的方法保持温度舒适，大家要合理地使用空调。” 沃戈基接受采访时住在新加坡的公寓里，他直至深夜仍开着窗户，形成室内对流风，降低室温。
He began telling me about how the European Union was effectively forcing companies to use less cooling, by mandating that new buildings meet stricter energy-use standards. 
他开始给我讲述欧盟(European Union)怎样几乎是强迫公司减少空调的使用，制定规则，要求新建大楼达到严格的能源使用标准。
I was listening from my living room in New York on a steamy Sunday morning. Given the topic of our conversation, I had the air-conditioner off, and the temperature was 85 or so. I couldn’t concentrate.
我在纽约的家里听着他的介绍，那是一个湿热的周日上午。鉴于我们的话题，我关掉了空调，室温是85度左右。我无法集中注意力。