KEEPING skin healthy as decades pass can be as easy as remembering this adage: Accept the things you cannot change. Have the courage to change the things you can. Be wise enough to tell the difference.
随着岁月流逝，保持皮肤健康就有点像是记起这则箴言：去接受我不能改变的一切。赐我勇气，去改变我所能改变的一切。赐我智慧，能判别这二者。
Ah, that is the hard part. When $89 anti-aging creams promise to lift saggy faces in just minutes, and some sunscreens claim to offer all-day protection, truth can be scarce. But dermatologists say there are simple and inexpensive ways to stave off premature aging and its attendant wrinkles and loss of collagen. Some of the following advice is backed by independent clinical research, while other practical tips come from board-certified dermatologists.
啊，这就是当中最困难的那部分了。当一瓶市价89美元的抗老化面霜承诺能在短短几分钟内提升松弛的脸部皮肤，当一些防晒霜声称能带来全天防护时，真相实在极为匮乏。但皮肤科专家说，在延缓早衰，以及由此相伴而来的皱纹和胶原蛋白流失方面，有些简单且便宜的办法。以下的一些建议得到了独立临床研究佐证，还有些实用小贴士则是由通过行业验证的皮肤科专家提出的。
“I’m big on simplifying everything,” said Dr. Jeffrey S. Dover, an associate clinical professor of dermatology at Yale University School of Medicine. So he counsels his patients to “cleanse, treat, prevent” daily. Wash your face with your scrub, gel or foam of choice; slather on a sunscreen every morning to forestall further sun damage; and reverse the signs of photoaging by applying a prescription retinoid nightly like Renova or Retin-A, which is now available generically as tretinoin. “Retinoids take months and months to work,” said Dr. Dover, a co-author of a forthcoming book called “The Youth Equation.” “It’s not going to reverse 30 years of lying on the beach overnight.”
“我崇尚的是将一切简化，”耶鲁大学医学院皮肤学临床副教授杰弗里·多佛(Jeffrey S. Dover)医生说。所以他建议自己的病人每天要做三个步骤：清洁、治疗、预防。自行选择用洁面磨砂膏、啫喱或洗面奶清洗脸部皮肤；每天早上涂抹防晒霜，预防日晒损伤；每晚使用凭处方购买的维生素A酸软膏，比如瑞诺瓦(Renova)或蕾婷(Retin-A)，这些统称为维A酸的乳膏可以逆转光老化的迹象。多佛医生的新著《年轻方程式》(Youth Equation)即将出版，他介绍说：“维生素A酸需要连续使用几个月才能见效，而且它不可能在一个晚上，就逆转你30年来躺在沙滩上带来的晒伤。”
Still, diligent application of a topical retinoid has been shown to stimulate new collagen, lighten dark spots and even out complexions, said Dr. Bruce Katz, clinical professor of dermatology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. “It doesn’t do a heck of a lot,” said Dr. Katz, director of the Juva Skin and Laser Center in Manhattan. “But it does do something.”
不过，西奈山医学院(Mount Sinai School of Medicine)皮肤学临床教授布鲁斯·卡兹(Bruce Katz)医生说，有研究显示，坚持局部涂抹维生素A酸可催生新的胶原蛋白生成，淡化甚至抹去斑点。卡兹医生也是曼哈顿尤瓦皮肤和激光中心(Juva Skin and Laser Center)主任，他说：“它不是灵丹妙药，但确实能起到一定的作用。”
Despite the fact that it has been proved for more than a decade that alpha-hydroxy acids (like glycolic acid) in topical forms can increase skin thickness and improve wrinkled and sun-damaged skin, most consumers hunting for an anti-aging cream on drugstore shelves don’t realize it.
尽管早在十多年前就有研究证实，局部使用果酸（如甘醇酸）可增加皮肤厚度，改善出现细纹或光损伤的皮肤，但大部分在美妆药房搜寻抗老化面霜的消费者并不知道这一点。
The reason? Marketing muscle, Dr. Katz said. With cosmetic pharmaceuticals like the alpha-hydroxy acids, Dr. Katz explained, “multiple companies were behind them, but they didn’t have a lot of money invested, so there wasn’t a major motive to market.”
原因是什么？卡兹医生说，是营销。他解释说，药妆企业喜欢果酸，“有几家公司都生产这类产品，但没有投入多少资金，因此在市场上没有巨大的推动力。”
One potential downside is that alpha-hydroxy acids “thin out the epidermis, making it a little more sensitive to being sunburned,” but not nearly as sensitive as it is to Retin-A, he said. So he recommends that people who wear either product be sure to keep sunscreen on during the day as well.
果酸类化妆品的一个潜在副作用是“令表皮层变薄，使得它对于日晒更为敏感，”但卡兹说，果酸导致的敏感性并不像维生素A酸那么强。所以他建议人们，如果使用了维A酸或果酸，在白天就一定要涂防晒产品。
Stress might also make you more susceptible to ultraviolet light. One study found that when mice were exposed to it, those who were stressed (by the smell of a predator) developed tumors at week 8, compared with week 21 in unstressed mice. “Can’t say the same for humans,” said Dr. Francisco Tausk, a professor of dermatology and psychiatry at the University of Rochester School of Medicine. Still, he said, “it’s quite suggestive. If you have chronic stress, and you’re exposed to a carcinogen such as ultraviolet light, you are more susceptible” to cancer.
压力也许会使你对紫外线更易感。一项研究发现，当小鼠暴露在紫外线中时，那些身受压力（嗅到捕食者的气味）的小鼠在研究进入第8周时就出现了肿瘤，而没有压力的小鼠则是到21周才出现肿块。“在人类身上不可能一样，”罗彻斯特大学(University of Rochester)医学院皮肤学和精神病学教授弗朗西斯科·陶斯克(Francisco Tausk)说。不过他也指出，“这个实验很有警示意义。如果你长期处在压力中，而且又受到致癌物质，比如紫外线的影响，你对于癌症将更加敏感。”
No need to go white-faced wearing zinc oxide anymore, just to protect against short UVB rays and longer UVA rays, said Dr. Amy Derick, a board-certified dermatologist in Barrington, Ill. Recently, the Food and Drug Administration has approved more broad-spectrum sunscreen products with Mexoryl SX, a European formula that is now widely available here and much less visible on the skin, she said. Dr. Derick also recommends Neutrogena sunscreens with Helioplex, which has a form of stabilized avobenzone for prolonged UVB/UVA effectiveness that won’t leave consumers feeling as if they’re “wearing a white mask.”
伊利诺伊州巴灵顿市的行业验证皮肤科医生艾米·德里克(Amy Derick)说，你没必要为了防护短波的UVB射线和长波的UVA射线，就把自己涂成一张大白脸，抹上厚厚的氧化锌防晒霜。她说，最近美国食品和药品监督局(Food and Drug Administration)审核通过了一种含专利麦色滤的广谱防晒产品，这种欧洲配方现已广泛在美国上市，而且在皮肤上更为通透。德里克医生推荐的另一种产品是含Helioplex的露得清(Neutrogena)防晒产品，这种产品含有一种较稳定的阿伏苯宗，可延长其防护UVB和UVA的有效时长，同时不会让使用者觉得自己“好像戴了个白色的面具”。
Several studies have shown that antioxidants also protect the skin from light, scavenging free radicals, said Dr. Derick, explaining, “antioxidants hook onto the free radicals generated by UV light and basically negate them.” She recommends applying vitamins C and E in the form of a serum.
德里克医生说，一些研究显示抗氧化剂可以通过清除自由基来保护皮肤免受光损伤，她解释说：“抗氧化剂可以钩住由紫外线产生的自由基，然后清除它们。”她推荐使用含维生素C或维生素E的精华素。
Finally, don’t neglect your noggin. Last month, an epidemiological study of 51,704 melanoma cases nationwide showed that melanomas of the scalp and neck are disproportionately fatal. Dr. Anne Lachiewicz, lead author and a medical graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said that after controlling for age, sex, tumor thickness and ulceration, the study found that 14 percent of people who developed scalp and neck melanoma died from them, compared with 6 percent of those with melanoma on their extremities, “where they might be more likely to notice a new and changing lesion.”
最后，别忘了你的头部。上个月一项流行病学研究评估了全美51704宗黑色素瘤病例，结果发现头顶和颈部的黑色素瘤致命性格外高。该研究的第一作者、毕业于北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)教堂山分校医学系的安妮·莱奇维兹(Anne Lachiewicz)说，在控制了年龄、性别、肿块厚度和溃疡形成这些因素后，研究发现在头颈部出现黑色素瘤的病人中，有14%的人死亡，而在四肢出现黑色素瘤的死亡率仅为6%，“人们可能更容易在这些地方发现一个新生或变化的肿块。”
So dermatologists should inspect scalps for melanomas, and beachgoers should wear wide-brimmed hats.
所以皮肤科医生应该检查头颈部有无黑色素瘤，而喜欢去海边的人也应该戴上宽边遮阳帽。