RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazilian voters re-elected Dilma Rousseff as president on Sunday, endorsing a leftist leader who has achieved important gains in reducing poverty and keeping unemployment low over a centrist challenger who castigated her government over a simmering bribery scandal and a sluggish economy.
里约热内卢——周日，巴西选民再次推选左派领导人迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)担任总统，罗塞夫在减贫和降低失业率方面取得了重要成就。一位中间派挑战者落败，在竞选期间，这名挑战者就一桩不断发酵的贿赂丑闻以及乏力的经济，向罗塞夫政府发起了强烈的抨击。
Ms. Rousseff of the Workers Party took  51.4 percent of vote in the second and final round of elections, against 48.5 percent for Aécio Neves, a senator from the Social Democracy party and scion of a political family from the state of Minas Gerais, electoral officials said Sunday night with 98 percent of votes in the country counted.
在清点全国98%的选票后，选举官员周日晚间宣布，在第二轮也是最后一轮投票中，来自劳工党(Workers Party)的罗塞夫获得了51.4%的选票，米纳斯吉拉斯州政治家庭出身的社会民主党参议员阿埃西奥·内维斯(Aécio Neves)获得了48.5%的选票。
While Ms. Rousseff won by a thin margin, the tumultuous race was marked by accusations of corruption, personal insults and heated debates, revealing climbing polarization in Brazil. Mr. Neves surged into the lead this month in opinion surveys, only to be eclipsed by Ms. Rousseff as the vote on Sunday approached.
尽管罗塞夫以微弱的优势取胜，但是这场混乱的选战中充斥着贪腐的指责、人身攻击和激烈辩论，突显了巴西日益加剧的分化。内维斯本月在民调中一度领先，但在周日投票到来之前被罗塞夫反超。
“People without much money have seen their lives improve during recent years,” said Liane Lima, 62, a secretary in São Paulo who voted for Ms. Rousseff. “I think we should let Dilma finish what she started.”
“没什么钱的人们，生活在最近几年出现了改善，”罗塞夫的支持者莉莲·利马(Liane Lima)说。“我认为我们应该让迪尔马把她想做的事情做完。”利马今年62岁，在圣保罗做秘书工作。
Indeed, Ms. Rousseff’s victory reflects broad changes in Brazilian society since the Workers Party rose to power 12 years ago with the election of her predecessor and mentor, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who chose Ms. Rousseff as his successor to run in the 2010 election and campaigned for her again this year.
的确，罗塞夫的胜利反映了自从劳工党12年前执掌权力以来，巴西社会的广泛改变。12年前上台的巴西前总统路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)为罗塞夫提供了很多帮助。他曾选择罗塞夫接替自己参加2010年的竞选，今年又为她进行了助选。
Building on an economic stabilization project put in place by the Social Democrats in the 1990s, Ms. Rousseff and Mr. da Silva aggressively expanded social welfare programs, lifting millions of Brazilians out of poverty. Pointing to the popularity of the antipoverty spending, Mr. Neves, the challenger in the race, said he would not scale it back.
在上世纪90年代由社会民主党实施的经济稳定项目的基础上，罗塞夫和达席尔瓦积极扩大社会福利项目，让数百万巴西人走出了贫困。挑战者内维斯在竞选中表示不会减少减贫方面的支出，这也说明了该项目深得人心。
But while Ms. Rousseff campaigned largely on her government’s support for poor and working-class citizens, she faced fierce criticism over her economic policies, with Brazil struggling with slow growth throughout her first term and a recession this year. Brazil’s financial markets gyrated wildly throughout the race, reflecting skepticism over her management of the economy.
尽管罗塞夫在竞选中主要强调政府对穷人和工薪阶级的支持，但是由于巴西经济在她的第一任期内一直增长缓慢，今年还出现了衰退，罗塞夫在经济政策方面，仍然受到了激烈的批评。在整个竞选期间，巴西金融市场波动剧烈，反映了市场对她管理经济的质疑。
Ms. Rousseff, 66, a former Marxist guerrilla who was imprisoned and tortured by Brazil’s military dictatorship, rejected much of the criticism while emphasizing that she had no plans to shift away from policies involving greater state control over the economy. Still, she signaled openness to shaking up her cabinet, including replacing her unpopular finance minister, Guido Mantega.
现年66岁的罗塞夫曾是一名马克思主义游击队员，遭到过巴西军事独裁政府的关押和拷问。她驳斥了大量指责，强调自己不打算转变让国家扩大对经济的控制权的政策。然而，她也表示，对重组内阁持开放态度，包括替换不受欢迎的财政部长吉多·曼特加(Guido Mantega)。
In addition to facing turbulence in the markets, Ms. Rousseff will deal in her next four-year term with a sprawling scandal involving testimony of bribes and money laundering at Petrobras, the national oil company, which has eroded confidence in the Workers Party. A former high-ranking executive at Petrobras has testified that he channeled bribes to the party and its allies in Brasília.
除了面临着金融市场上的波动，罗塞夫还将在下一届四年任期内处理一场波及甚广的丑闻。该丑闻涉及国有石油企业巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)贿赂和洗钱的证言，丑闻削弱了民众对劳工党的信任。该公司的一名前高管作证称，他将贿赂的资金输送给了劳工党及其在巴西利亚的盟友。
“I always voted for the Workers Party, since I was a teenager, but this government hasn’t done anything different,” said José Abel, 48, who runs a tourist agency in Brasília and voted for Mr. Neves largely out of concern over corruption in Ms. Rousseff’s government. “They’re just the same as other parties now.”
“从十几岁开始，我就一直给劳工党投票，但这一届政府没有采取任何与众不同的措施，”在巴西利亚经营着一家旅行社的若泽·阿贝尔(José Abel)说。“他们现在和其他政党一模一样。”48岁的阿贝尔把票投给了内维斯，在很大程度上是因为担心罗塞夫政府内部的腐败。