I reckon I spent five hours at most in Philip Seymour Hoffman’s close company, six at a pinch. Otherwise it was standing around with other people on the set of “A Most Wanted Man,” watching him on the monitor and afterward telling him he was great, or deciding better to keep your thoughts to yourself. I didn’t even do a lot of that: a couple of visits to the set, one silly walk-on part that required me to grow a disgusting beard, took all day and delivered a smudgy picture of somebody I was grateful not to recognize. There’s probably nobody more redundant in the film world than a writer of origin hanging around the set of his movie, as I’ve learned to my cost. Alec Guinness actually did me the favor of having me shown off the set of the BBC’s TV adaptation of “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy.” All I was wanting to do was radiate my admiration, but Alec said my glare was too intense.
我估计自己至多跟菲利普·塞默·霍夫曼(Philip Seymour Hoffman)近距离呆上过五个小时， 如果有必要就是六个小时。又或是与其他人一起站在《最高通缉犯》(A Most Wanted Man)的片场，看着显示器里的他，然后告诉他演得多么棒，又或者决定还是不要把自己的想法说出来的好。我并没有太多这样的经历：去几次片场，为了客串一个愚蠢的路人甲而留一把恶心的大胡子，而且花费一整天时间去扮演一个面目模糊的家伙，谢天谢地，我根本不认识他是谁。在电影世界里，最多余的人莫过于总是呆在片场的剧本原作者，我可是有教训的。承蒙亚力克·基尼斯(Alec Guinness)的好意，邀我到BBC改编的电视剧《锅匠、裁缝、士兵、间谍》(Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy)的片场。我觉得自己只是在表达我的赞赏，但亚力克说我的眼神过于激烈。
Come to think of it, Philip did the same favor for a woman friend of ours one afternoon on the shoot of “A Most Wanted Man” in Hamburg that winter of 2012. She was standing in a group 30-odd yards away from him, just watching and getting cold like everybody else. But something about her bothered him, and he had her removed. It was a little eerie, a little psychic, but he was bang on target because the woman in the case is a novelist, too, and she can do intensity with the best of us. Philip didn’t know that. He just sniffed it.
回想起来，2012年冬天，在汉堡拍摄《最高通缉犯》时，菲利普对我们的一个女性朋友做过同样的好事。她站在300码开外的人群里，和其他人一样向这边看着，一边冻得哆嗦。但是她身上有什么东西让他不安，他让她离开。这有点怪诞，有点像心灵感应，但他刚好做对了，因为那个女人也是一个小说家，她可以和我们其他人一样激烈。菲利普不知道这回事，他只是嗅出来了。
In retrospect, nothing of that kind surprised me about Philip, because his intuition was luminous from the instant you met him. So was his intelligence. A lot of actors act intelligent, but Philip was the real thing: a shining, artistic polymath with an intelligence that came at you like a pair of headlights and enveloped you from the moment he grabbed your hand, put a huge arm round your neck and shoved a cheek against yours; or if the mood took him, hugged you to him like a big, pudgy schoolboy, then stood and beamed at you while he took stock of the effect.
回想起来，菲利普做出这类事情并不令我惊讶，因为从人们见到他的那一刻起，他的直觉就开始熠熠生辉。同样惊人的还有他的智力。很多演员都有才气，但菲利普是真的聪明：他是个卓越的、充满艺术气质的博学者，他的聪明就像汽车头灯一样瞬间把你照亮。他握住你的手，粗壮的胳膊搂住你的脖子，把胡子刮得干干净净的面颊贴住你的脸，像个胖乎乎的大男生一样拥抱你，然后站在那儿对你微笑，观察着这番举动给你留下了什么印象，从那一刻起，他的聪慧就包裹着你。
Philip took vivid stock of everything, all the time. It was painful and exhausting work, and probably in the end his undoing. The world was too bright for him to handle. He had to screw up his eyes or be dazzled to death. Like Chatterton, he went seven times round the moon to your one, and every time he set off, you were never sure he’d come back, which is what I believe somebody said about the German poet Hölderlin: Whenever he left the room, you were afraid you’d seen the last of him. And if that sounds like wisdom after the event, it isn’t. Philip was burning himself out before your eyes. Nobody could live at his pace and stay the course, and in bursts of startling intimacy he needed you to know it.
菲利普无时无刻不在敏锐地观察着一切。这是一桩痛苦而耗费精力的工作，或许到最后导致了他的毁灭。这个世界太过明亮，令他无法应付。他得眯上眼睛，否则就会目眩而死。就像英国诗人查特顿(Chatterton)一样，你绕月亮转一圈，他能转七圈。每当他离开，你都不敢确定他是否还能回来，就像有人用来形容德国诗人荷尔德林(Hölderlin)的话：每当他离开房间，你都担心这是自己最后一次见到他。这听上去像是事后聪明，但并不是。菲利普就是这样在你面前燃烧自己。没有人能以他那样的步调生存并一以贯之，而在亲密的感情突然爆发出来的时刻，他需要你了解这一点。
No actor had ever made quite the impact on me that Philip did at that first encounter: not Richard Burton, not Burt Lancaster or even Alec Guinness. Philip greeted me as if he’d been waiting to meet me all his life, which I suspect was how he greeted everyone. But I’d been waiting to meet Philip for a long time. I reckoned his “Capote” the best single performance I’d seen on screen. But I didn’t dare tell him that, because there’s always a danger with actors, when you tell them how great they were nine years ago, that they demand to know what’s been wrong with their performances ever since.
没有任何一位演员像菲利普这样，第一次见面就带给我巨大的冲击：理查德·伯顿(Richard Burton)不行，伯特·兰卡斯特(Burt Lancaster)不行，甚至亚力克·基尼斯(Alec Guinness)也不行。菲利普迎接我的样子，就像他毕生都在等待与我相逢的时刻，我怀疑他对每个人都是这样的。不过我对菲利普倒是仰慕已久。我觉得他饰演的卡波特(Capote)是我见过的最佳银幕表演。但我不敢这么告诉他，因为和演员相处总有这样的危险：如果你说他们九年前有多么优秀，他们就会想知道从那以后自己的表演是不是出了什么问题。
But I did tell him that he was the only American actor I knew who could play my character George Smiley, a role first graced by Guinness in the BBC “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy,” and more recently by Gary Oldman in the big-screen adaptation — but then, as a loyal Brit, I was claiming Gary Oldman for our own.
但我确实告诉他，他是我心目中唯一能够饰演乔治·斯迈利(George Smiley)的美国演员，在最早的BBC版《锅匠、裁缝、士兵、间谍》里，这个角色由基尼斯扮演，最近的电影版中又由加里·奥德曼(Gary Oldman)饰演——不过，作为一个忠实的英国人，我把加里·奥德曼也当做我们英国人。
Perhaps I was also remembering that, like Guinness, Philip wasn’t much of a lover on screen, but mercifully, we didn’t have to bother about that in our movie. If Philip had to take a girl in his arms, you didn’t actually blush and look away as you did with Guinness, but you couldn’t help feeling that somehow he was doing it for you rather than himself.
或许我还想到，和基尼斯一样，菲利普在大银幕上演情人总不大有说服力，但幸运的是，在我们的电影里不用纠结这一点。如果菲利普在片中必须搂抱一个女孩，你不会像看到基尼斯拥抱女孩那样觉得尴尬，把目光转向一边，但你会忍不住觉得他这样做是为了你，而不是为了他自己。
Our filmmakers had a lot of discussion about whether they could get Philip into bed with somebody, and it’s an interesting thought that when they did finally come up with a proposal, both partners ran a mile. It was only when the magnificent actress Nina Hoss appeared beside him that the makers realized they were looking at a small miracle of romantic failure. In her role, which was hastily bulked out, she is Philip’s adoring work mate, acolyte and steadying hand, and he breaks her heart.
关于是否应当让菲利普在片中和某人上床，我们的制片人们讨论了很久，这是个有趣的想法，最终他们提出这个建议时，双方都避之不及。最后，高尚的女演员安娜·霍斯(Nina Hoss)出现在菲利普身边时，制片人们才意识到，两人看上去像是一段失败恋情的小小奇迹。霍斯饰演的这个角色突然变得厚重，在片中，她是爱慕菲利普的工作伙伴、助手和果断的协助者，他伤透了她的心。
That suited Philip just fine. His role of Günther Bachmann, middle-aged German intelligence officer on the skids, did not allow for enduring love or any other kind. Philip had made that decision from Day 1 and to rub it in, carried a well-thumbed paperback copy of my novel around with him — and what author of origin could ask more? — to brandish in the face of anyone who wanted to sex the story up.
这个角色很适合菲利普，他在片中饰演甘瑟·巴赫曼(Günther Bachmann)，这是个快要退休的中年德国情报官员，不能拥有长期恋情或类似关系。菲利普从第一天就下定了决心，为了不断提醒人们，他随身带着一本我这本小说翻烂了的平装版（作为作者真是夫复何求），倘若有人想要用性爱来调动这个故事，他就冲着那人挥舞这本书。
The movie of “A Most Wanted Man” also features Rachel McAdams and Willem Dafoe, and opens in a cinema near you, I hope, so start saving now. It was shot almost entirely in Hamburg and Berlin, and numbers in its cast some of Germany’s most distinguished actors in relatively humble roles, not only the sublime Nina Hoss (the film “Barbara”), but also Daniel Brühl (“Rush”).
电影《最高通缉犯》中还有瑞秋·麦克亚当斯(Rachel McAdams)和威廉·达福(Willem Dafoe)，我希望它能在你家附近的影院上演，所以现在就准备买票吧。它几乎全部是在汉堡和柏林拍摄的，演员中还有若干德国最著名的演员，饰演一些小角色，除了高尚的妮娜·霍斯（影片中的“芭芭拉”），还有丹尼尔·布鲁赫（Daniel Brühl，片中的“拉什”）。
In the novel, Bachmann is a secret agent on his uppers. Well, Philip can relate to that. The character’s been whisked home from Beirut after losing his precious spy network to the clumsiness or worse of the C.I.A. He has been put out to grass in Hamburg, the city that played host to the 9/11 conspirators. Its regional intelligence arm, and many of its citizens, are still living with that embarrassment.
在小说中，巴赫曼是个吸毒的间谍。嗯，对于菲利普来说，演这样的角色不是问题。这个角色在贝鲁特失去了珍贵的间谍网，令中情局陷入尴尬被动的境地，之后被迅速遣返，在汉堡无所事事。之前911事件的主脑就是在汉堡策动密谋的，这里的情报分支和很多人仍然生活在这种尴尬之中。
Bachmann’s self-devised mission is to put the score straight: not by way of snatch teams, waterboards and extrajudicial killings, but by the artful penetration of spies, by espousal, by using the enemy’s own weight to bring him down, and the consequent disarming of jihadism from within.
巴赫曼给自己定下的任务是正直地开展工作：不是靠偷偷摸摸的小团队、严刑逼供和非法暗杀，而是靠间谍的巧妙渗透，靠着对事业的信仰，借敌人的力量打倒敌人，继而从内部瓦解那些圣战分子。
Over a fancy dinner with the filmmakers and the high end of the cast, I don’t remember either Philip or myself talking much about the actual role of Bachmann; just more generally, about such things as the care and maintenance of secret agents and the pastoral role incumbent on their agent runners. Forget blackmail, I said. Forget the macho. Forget sleep deprivation, locking people in boxes, simulated executions and other enhancements. The best agents, snitches, joes, informants or whatever you want to call them, I pontificated, needed patience, understanding and loving care. I like to think he took my homily to heart, but more likely he was wondering whether he could use a bit of that soupy expression I put on when I’m trying to impress.
在一次与制片人和主要演员共进的美妙晚餐上，我不记得是菲利普还是我说了很多关于巴赫曼这个角色原型的事；还泛泛地谈了关于对间谍的关怀和照顾，以及间谍机构负责人必须扮演的牧师角色。别去管那些敲诈，我说，忘掉那些大男子主义。别去管那些剥夺睡眠之类的逼供，还有把人锁在箱子里，模拟死刑和各种手段。我装出权威的口吻说：最好的间谍、告密者、提供情报者，或者随便你管他们叫什么，他们需要的是耐心、理解和亲密的关怀。我觉得他记住了我的长篇大论，但更可能的是他在思忖：能不能把我这些试图打动别人的含糊表达用在自己的表演里。