Distillers from Kirkwall to Kyoto descended on New York this Wednesday for the 17th annual WhiskeyFest, a trade show that often serves as a launching pad for end-of-the-year releases. Below are some of the most buzzed-about bottles that begin hitting stores now.
本周三，从柯克沃尔到京都的蒸馏酒制造者们齐聚纽约参加第17届一年一度的威士忌节，这个行业展会通常用来发布年底新品。下面是即将上市的酒品中最受关注的几种。
Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014: A salty new single malt
拉弗格 ，卡切斯 2014(Laphroaig Cairdeas)：新款盐味单一麦芽威士忌
“My job is to make sure this doesn’t change,” the master distiller John Campbell says about Laphroaig 10, the brand’s original, 100-plus-year-old formula for single malt peated whisky. And then there’s Laphroaig’s annual release, Cairdeas (pronounced “car-chase”), a relished opportunity for him to craft something new each year. This year’s bottle is made from choice barrels of eight-year Laphroaig finished in amontillado sherry casks, which add notes of clove and blackberry atop the seaweed-peat smokiness Laphroaig is famous for. It’s almost two drinks in one. $74.99, laphroaig.com
“我的工作就是确保它不会变,”制酒大师约翰·坎贝尔(John Cambell)这样谈起该品牌最初的拉弗格10酒，它是一款泥煤单一麦芽威士忌，配方已经沿用了100多年。然后就是拉弗格的年度酒品卡切斯，这对坎贝尔来说是个愉快的机会，可以每年使用点新东西。今年的酒是由精选八年拉弗格酒制成，在阿芒蒂拉多雪利酒桶中陈化，在拉弗格著名的海草泥煤烟熏口感之上增添一丝丁香与黑莓的香气。简直就像两种酒合二为一。74.99美元，laphroaig.com
Heaven Hill Parker’s Heritage 2014: Just in time for the season of giving
天堂山，帕克的遗产2014(Heaven Hill Parker’s Heritage 2014): 适合感恩节的威士忌
Similar to Cairdeas, at least in methodology, Parker’s Heritage from Heaven Hill is an annual distiller’s special, and the 2014 release is an even older expression of the company’s Bernheim Original wheat whiskey. Its flavor is somewhere between buttermilk biscuit and honey brioche, but finishes with soft Ceylon cinnamon. If that doesn’t put you in the spirit of giving, $5 from each sale will be donated to A.L.S. research. $89.99, heavenhill.com
帕克的遗产至少在方法上和卡切斯类似，也是一款年度特别酒品，2014版是该公司的伯恩海姆原始版麦芽威士忌更古老的版本。它的口味在黄油牛奶饼干与蜂蜜奶油面包卷之间，但是有温和的锡兰肉桂后味。每卖出一瓶酒，公司都会向肌萎缩侧索硬化研究捐赠5美元，令你感受感恩精神。89.99美元，heavenhill.com。
The Macallan Rare: Sweet States-only Scotch from the Scottish Highlands
麦卡伦，珍品(The Macallan Rare)，来自苏格兰高地的甜味苏格兰威士忌，只在美国发售
Known for its dry and fragrant Scotch, the Macallan is now offering a special States-only release aged exclusively in oloroso sherry casks, aptly called Rare Cask. The naturally amber-colored whisky comes in a bright red hexagonal box and features lots of woodsy peat smoke and raspberry compote upfront, which give way to hints of raspberry cream, burnt sugar and white chocolate. It’ll tickle your sweet tooth without giving you a cavity. $300, themacallan.com
麦卡伦以干爽芬芳的苏格兰威士忌闻名，此次提供一款特供美国的酒品，只在欧罗索雪利酒桶中陈化，巧妙地取名为“珍品酒桶”。这款酒呈现自然的琥珀色，被装在亮红色的六角形盒子中，口感是浓重的木质烟煤烟熏味，以及覆盆子蜜饯前味，令人联想起覆盆子酱、焦糖和白巧克力。它能满足你对甜食的嗜好，又不会让你蛀牙。300美元， themacallan.com
Maker’s Mark Cask Strength: An undiluted iteration of a classic bar cart staple
美格，木桶强度(Maker’s Mark Cask Strength)：不稀释的经典酒吧名酒
Last year, Maker’s Mark made not-so-small news when the company announced that in order to keep up with demand, it would have to slightly water down its whiskey. Fans rioted, so the company relented. Now, it introduces the first-time release of a completely undiluted Maker’s Mark. Strikingly smooth for a cask-strength bourbon, it starts off like caramel popcorn before opening up with Caribbean spices. This is Maker’s supercharged and, sold in half-size bottles, quite the stocking stuffer.$39.99, makersmark.com
去年，美格出了条大新闻，公司宣布，为了满足需求，公司将在威士忌中少量掺水。在粉丝的愤怒声讨下，公司放缓了步伐。如今公司推出了第一款完全不稀释的美格酒。对于一款木桶强度波旁酒来说，它的口感极度平滑，前味是焦糖玉米花味，之后是加勒比海香料味。这是美格的重磅之作，放在半尺寸的酒瓶中，可以充当塞在圣诞袜子里的礼物。39.99美元，makersmark.com
High West Midwinter Night’s Dram: For the cold evenings to come
海威斯特，冬日中旬的夜酌(High West Midwinter Night's Dram)：为了即将到来的寒冷夜晚
In a nod to Shakespeare, Utah’s High West has rested its popular Rendezvous Rye whiskey in a combination of sweet port and dry French oak barrels. But with notes of cooked plum, cinnamon stick and whole clove, the Midwinter’s Night Dram is — as the name cheekily suggests — not for midsummer. The “limited engagement” whiskey is now being released nationally for the first time and might offer some comfort come Sunday, when we turn back the clocks for Daylight Savings Time and the days get shorter. $79.99, highwest.com
犹他州的海威斯特向莎士比亚致意，将自己受欢迎的“约会黑麦威士忌”(Rendezvous Rye)放在甜肉和法国干橡木酒桶中陈化。但是这款冬日中旬的夜酌却有一丝烤李子、肉桂棒和丁香的香气，如其名所示，并不适合仲夏夜。这款限量版威士忌如今首次在全国发售，或许会在周日夏时制结束，白昼变短之后，为你带来一丝安慰。79.99美元，highwest.com