LAS VEGAS —Democrats expressed growing skepticism Wednesday that Vice President Joe Biden could find a foothold were he to enter the presidential campaign as Hillary Rodham Clinton's commanding performance in the first Democratic debate here abruptly quieted murmurs about her candidacy.
拉斯维加斯——副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)如果参加总统竞选，能否找到一个立足之地？周三，民主党人对此表达了越来越深的怀疑。在拉斯维加斯举行的首场民主党辩论中，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)掌控了局面，顿时平息了人们对其候选资格的异议。
With no obvious constituency ready to support Biden, his prospects have increasingly been based on the possibilities of Clinton's faltering, repeating some of the missteps she has made since declaring her candidacy earlier this year or falling prey to more damning revelations about her use of a private email server as secretary of state.
并没有哪一部分选民显然会支持拜登，他的竞选前景越来越取决于克林顿重复一些失误并遭遇挫折的可能性。克林顿自从今年早些时候宣布参选之后确实有过一些失误，而较为严重的是，她被曝在担任国务卿时使用了私人电邮服务器。
But with Clinton showing her mettle in Tuesday's debate, and Democrats increasingly convinced that questions about her emails are little more than a Republican and news media fixation, she suddenly appeared far better positioned to allay skeptics in her party when she testifies next week before the congressional panel investigating the attacks on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.
但克林顿在本周二的辩论中表现出色，而民主党人也越来越相信，电子邮件引发的疑问，只是共和党和新闻媒体抓着不放而已。克林顿下周将在调查美国驻利比亚班加西领事馆遇袭的国会委员会面前作证，届时她将有更强的底气，来减轻自己党内的疑虑。
“If Biden's only rationale is that Clinton is tanking, then that's no longer an option,” said Stephanie Cutter, a longtime Democratic consultant. Cutter, who worked for President Barack Obama's re-election, said Biden could now “risk a backlash” from Democrats if he runs.
“如果拜登参选唯一的理由就是克林顿遭受重挫，那他现在就没有什么理由了，”斯蒂芬妮·卡特(Stephanie Cutter)表示。卡特长期担任民主党顾问，曾是奥巴马竞选连任时的班底成员，她说拜登如果现在参与角逐，可能会“自惹麻烦”。
With crisp answers to nearly every question, an aggressiveness her rivals did not seem ready for and a level of confidence that has often been obscured over months of email questions, Clinton sent an unmistakable message to Biden and to her party.
克林顿向拜登和民主党发出了明确无误的信号，她带着数个月来经常被电邮门事件所掩盖的自信神采，干净利落地回答了几乎每一个问题，其锋芒毕露的姿态令对手们难以招架。
By Wednesday, Democrats unaffiliated with any candidate were describing the closing, if not the slamming shut, of a door.
到了周三，没有明确支持任何候选人的民主党人都在说，拜登参选的大门正在合上，甚至可以说已经砰然关闭。
“The dilemma Vice President Biden faces about the 2016 race today underscores the fact that successful campaigns aren't based upon the expected failures of your opponent,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a veteran Democratic strategist.
“对于2016年的竞选，副总统拜登现在进退两难。这突显出，成功的竞选活动，不能建立在指望对手失败的基础上，”资深的民主党策略师玛丽·安·马尔什(Mary Anne Marsh)说。
No less a critic of Clinton than Donald Trump, a Republican contender, conceded on MSNBC's “Morning Joe” that Clinton “did what she had to do.”
说到对克林顿的批评，没有人能和共和党候选人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)相提并论。他在MSNBC的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)节目中承认，克林顿“做了必须要做的事情”。
Biden, of course, may not be dissuaded from giving up what could be his last chance at the presidency. “I'm not sure that's entirely what's going to drive Joe's decision,” Ed Rendell, the former Pennsylvania governor and Clinton supporter, said on MSNBC of Clinton's showing in the debate.
当然，拜登可能不会被吓退——这或许是他问鼎总统宝座的最后的机会。“我不确定那是乔做出决定的全部理由，”支持克林顿的前宾夕法尼亚州州长爱德华·伦德尔(Edward Rendell)在MSNBC上说。他指的是克林顿在辩论中的表现。
Biden, briefly speaking to reporters Wednesday, shed no new light on his deliberations but said he had felt “proud” watching the night before. “I thought every one of those folks last night — I'm mildly prejudiced — I thought they all did well,” he said.
周三当天，拜登对记者发表了简短讲话。对于自己的权衡，他没有透露更多情况，只是表示在观看前一天晚上的辩论时，自己感到“骄傲”。他说，“尽管我有一些自己的偏好，但我想，昨晚他们中的每一个人都表现得很好。”
Clinton's backers here were elated, suggesting that her authoritative performance offered an unspoken rejoinder to those Democrats calling for Biden to make a late entry into the race.
在这里，克林顿的支持者兴奋不已，称她充满权威的表现，含蓄地反驳了那些呼吁拜登参选——尽管此时参选已经不早了——的民主党人。
“I think that kind of cemented it,” said Rep. Dina Titus, D-Nev. “She said, `I'm a progressive who can get things done.' That's the perfect combination that we need.”
“我认为几成定局，”内华达州民主党参议员迪娜·蒂图斯(Dina Titus)说。“她说‘我是一个能把事情办成的进步派。’这正是我们所需要的完美结合。”
Clinton's articulation of her brand of mainstream liberalism was also an implicit statement to Biden that there is no more space in the Democratic contest for somebody who would also carry the banner of the center-left and run as Obama's heir. Again and again, it was Clinton who portrayed herself as Obama's partner, the candidate who would perpetuate and enhance the president's legacy.
克林顿阐述了她自己的主流自由主义理念。这也是在含蓄地告诉拜登，民主党阵营中已经没有空间，再容纳一个同样扛着中左旗帜的人参选了。克林顿一遍又一遍地把自己描述成奥巴马的伙伴，意在表明自己是一位会延续并加强现任总统遗产的候选人。
She did not exactly issue a call for four more years, but while Sen. Bernie Sanders was calling for a political revolution, Clinton, more than any other candidate, embraced Obama and his politics.
她并没有明确地呼吁，把奥巴马的政策再延续四年。但在参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)呼吁开展一场政治革命时，克林顿比其他任何候选人都更支持奥巴马和他的政治观点。
Sanders offered her a crucial assist on two fronts in forestalling a threat from Biden.
在预先阻止拜登的威胁这一点上，桑德斯从两个方面给她提供了至关重要的协助。
Sanders' unsteady response to her surprisingly tough attacks on guns — the one issue on which she is safely able to outflank him from the left — gave Clinton an opportunity to solidify her support among the nonwhite Democrats Biden would need to defeat her. Polls show that some of the strongest supporters of gun control are African-Americans and Hispanics.
对于枪支管控的立场，克林顿比桑德斯还左。而她出其不意地就枪支政策抨击桑德斯，也让桑德斯无法沉稳地应对。这让克林顿有机会巩固非白人民主党人对自己的支持。而要想打败克林顿，拜登须赢得这些人的支持。民调显示，枪支管控最坚定的支持者是非裔和西语裔美国人。
And by effectively offering her a political amnesty on her email travails — saying “the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails” —Sanders made it difficult for himself to seize on the issue should it worsen, and gave Clinton a way to isolate Biden should he try to use the subject to attack her character.
桑德斯还说，“关于你电子邮件的破事儿，美国民众已经听烦、听厌了。”这实际上让克林顿得以在政治场合避谈自己的邮件丑闻。这样一来，如果形势恶化，桑德斯自己也难以对这个问题加以利用。而如果拜登试图用这件事攻击克林顿的人格，她也有办法孤立对方。
But what may have been the most lasting result of the first Democratic face-off was Clinton's attempt to fend off a threat from the vice president by linking herself so closely to the president they both served. “The Obama heir with her own credentials and opinions,” as Cutter put it.
但民主党首轮正面交锋最持久的成果或许是，克林顿试图通过把自己和总统紧密地联系在一起，来防止同为总统效力的副总统的威胁。用卡特的话说，她是“一个有自己的资历和观点的奥巴马继承人”。
Clinton never mentioned Biden — his name did not come up once during the entire debate — but she alluded to one of the most memorable areas on which she and Obama were in agreement, but the vice president was not. Recalling the “tough decision that President Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden,” Clinton noted that she was “one of his few advisers” on that question — seeming to catch herself so as not to point out that Biden had doubts about that military operation.
克林顿从未提到拜登。在整场辩论中，拜登的名字一次都没出现。她间接提到了自己与总统意见一致，但副总统拜登却有不同意见的一件最为难忘的事情。克林顿回忆道，“奥巴马总统对奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)不得不做出一个艰难的决定”，并指出在那个问题上，自己是“他少数几名顾问之一”。她就此打住，似乎差一点就会指出，拜登当时对那次军事行动有顾虑。
It was a walk-to-the-edge caution that her advisers and surrogate supporters also employed after the debate, when they were clearly instructed to follow Clinton's respectful line on all questions about the vice president's plans.
这是一种止步于边缘的谨慎。辩论结束后，克林顿的顾问和为她代言的支持者也延续了这种态度。他们得到了明确指示，在所有与副总统的计划有关的问题上，都要遵循克林顿尊敬的口径。
But even as they offered the usual acknowledgments of the personal decision Biden has to make, there was also just a touch of bravado in the wake of Clinton's strong showing.
在克林顿的强势表现结束之后，尽管他们承认拜登需要做出个人的决定，但也做出了些许告诫。