More than two years after the death of Steven P. Jobs, Apple has continued to rake in huge profits with record sales of iPhones and iPads. But despite Apple’s ever-growing mountain of cash, some doubt the company’s success will continue without its visionary leader, whose unwavering obsession with quality helped make its products great and innovative.
史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)去世两年多后，苹果(Apple)继续凭借创纪录的iPhone及iPad销量获取巨额利润。虽然苹果的财富越来越多，但一些人怀疑，失去了乔布斯这位有远见的领导人，苹果的成功将无以为继。在乔布斯对品质的迷恋的帮助下，苹果的产品伟大且极具创新性。
Yukari I. Kane, a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal who was well known for leading news coverage on Mr. Jobs’s health, is one of those doubters. In her new book, “Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobs,” she recounts Mr. Jobs’s final years at Apple and then zooms in on the state of the company under its current chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, who was previously chief operating officer.
尤加利·I·凯恩(Yukari I. Kane)便是怀疑者之一，她是前《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)记者，以率先报道乔布斯的健康状况而闻名。在新书《困境中的帝国：后乔布斯时代的苹果》(Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobs)中，她记载了乔布斯在苹果任职的最后几年，然后又详细分析了在目前的首席执行官、曾任首席运营官的蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)领导下苹果公司的状况。
In an interview, Ms. Kane talked about some of the highlights of her book. An edited transcript of the interview follows.
在采访中，凯恩谈到了自己作品中的一些亮点。以下是经过编辑后的采访记录。
Q. How has Apple changed under Mr. Cook? Is it for better or worse?
问：在库克的领导下，苹果发生了什么变化？变好了还是变糟糕了？
A. Apple is becoming a more traditional, process-focused company under Cook. Project managers have more say than ever before and product development is accompanied by more rigorous financial analysis.
答：在库克的带领下，苹果变得更传统，更注重过程。项目经理的话语权比以往任何时候都大，在研发产品的同时会进行更严格的财务分析。
In terms of the role of the C.E.O., Cook is more of a delegator compared with Jobs, who got into the weeds of anything that interested him. Cook is also a better internal communicator. He sends out more all-staff emails and holds more town hall meetings. He also understands that people need to take vacations and have down time, whereas Jobs routinely made a habit of calling people back midvacation.
就首席执行官的角色而言，库克比乔布斯更像一个委托人，而乔布斯会参与他感兴趣的任何小事。同时，库克在内部沟通上也做得更好。他发给全体员工的邮件更多，举行员工大会的次数更多。他理解员工需要度假、休息，而乔布斯却常常习惯在别人度假时将其电话召回。
The question of whether these changes are for the better is complex. Cook brings more efficiency and organization to Apple, which is good because the company’s increased size and scale requires a professional, consistent leadership style that is more inclusive than Steve Jobs’s was.
这些是不是好的变化，三言两语是说不清的。库克提高了苹果的效率，让公司更有条理，这很好，因为苹果公司的规模扩大了，需要专业、始终如一的领导风格，这种风格比乔布斯的更具包容性。
But this style also adds layers of bureaucracy, which can slow down innovation. By a similar token, while it’s nice for employees to get more flexibility with vacations and such, you lose the intensity that is required to keep hitting home run after home run. It’s not a surprise that one of Jobs’s first acts upon returning to Apple back in the 1990s was to eliminate its sabbatical program.
但这种风格也增加了僵硬的程序，这可能会导致创新放缓。同样，尽管让员工在假期等方面享有更多灵活性很好，但这样做也会失去保持成功所需要的那种紧张。所以上世纪90年代乔布斯回到苹果，首先采取的措施之一就是取消公司的休假项目，是很自然的。
Q. In your book you portray Tim as a foil to Steve. Steve was a micromanager, obsessed with details and prone to temper tantrums. Tim, by contrast, seems laid back and steady-handed. What are the pros and cons to their different styles of management?
问：在你的书中，你把蒂姆描写成是史蒂夫的陪衬。史蒂夫是一个微观管理者，迷恋细节，容易发脾气。相比之下，蒂姆似乎比较放松，不慌不忙。他们不同的管理风格的优缺点是什么？
A. I don’t think of Tim as laid back. In fact, he’s extremely intense. His intensity is just more quiet and dogged than Steve’s.
答：我觉得蒂姆不是放松。实际上，他非常紧张。只是和史蒂夫相比，他的紧张更安静，更持久。
The advantages of Steve’s approach were that he was dynamic and involved. His demands could be outrageous – for example, people had to work on Christmas Day because he decided he wanted a different color iPod shuffle at the last minute. Not all of those little obsessions may have mattered, but together they added up into the company’s game-changing lineup of products and services.
史蒂夫的方式的优点是，他很有活力，积极参与。他的要求可能会很离谱——比如，因为他在最后一刻决定要改一款iPod Shuffle的颜色，员工圣诞节那一天不得不工作。并不是所有这些小事情方面的执著都有重大意义，但它们加起来便构成了苹果公司一系列变革性的产品和服务。
Cook is more systematic and analytical. That means that he’ll run a tight ship, and Apple will be financially well managed under him. I’m not sure we’ll ever see his thumbprint on a product, though, because he’s not the type of person to get involved in the minutiae. I could see him running the numbers to make sure that new products are marketable, but he depends on his lieutenants to figure out the nitty-gritty.
库克更有条理，更善于分析。这意味着他的管理会比较严格、高效。在他的领导下，苹果的财务会得到很好的管理。但我不确定我们会不会看到他参与某个产品的工作，因为他不是那种会参与细节的人。他可能会进行计算，以确保新产品是有销路的，但他把那些具体的东西交给自己的手下人。
One anecdote came up in my reporting that I think really shows the difference in their thinking. I don’t know if there was an official policy, but in the first weeks after launching a product, Apple would often replace damaged devices even if the customer is at fault.
我在报道时听说过一件事，我认为这件事完全能证明两人思维方式的不同。我不知道是不是有正式的规定，但在新产品发布后的最初几周，如果设备坏了，即使是消费者的责任，苹果也经常会为用户更换新设备。
When the idea was first proposed, Steve liked it because he saw how satisfied customers could bring in more business through positive word of mouth. His attitude was, “Hey, we’ve got to make people happy. If we’re spending an extra nickel, it’s O.K.”
这个想法被首次提出时，史蒂夫觉得很不错，因为他知道如果消费者满意，形成了口碑，就会吸引更多用户。他的态度是，“嘿，我们必须得让人们满意。即使多花点钱也没关系。”
Tim was initially opposed because of the potential costs.
而由于可能带来的成本，蒂姆最初却反对这种做法。
Q. Tim fired Scott Forstall after the embarrassing hiccups with Apple maps. Was this a mistake? Do you think Steve would have done the same thing?
问：由于苹果地图服务出现了一连串令人尴尬的漏洞，蒂姆解雇了斯科特·福斯特尔(Scott Forstall)。这是个错误吗？你觉得史蒂夫会这么做吗？
A. I think that Forstall’s departure is a loss to the company. He was a bright engineer with ambition and vision, and no company can afford to lose that kind of talent. But he was also the least-liked executive team member and was a controversial and disruptive figure. Jobs had the force of personality to rein in other strong personalities like Forstall’s, but if Tim Cook couldn’t control him, it was the right call to ask for his resignation.
答：我认为福斯特尔离职是苹果公司的损失。他是一名出色的工程师，有抱负，有远见，任何公司都无法承受失去这种人才的损失。但他也是最不受欢迎的执行团队成员，是一个饱受争议、制造不和的人物。乔布斯的人格力量可以控制住包括福斯特尔在内的其他性格强势的人，但如果蒂姆·库克控制不了他，让他辞职就是一个正确的决定。
It’s anyone’s guess how Steve would have reacted. It would have probably depended partly on whether he knew of the problems beforehand.
史蒂夫会如何反应，谁也说不准。这一定程度上可能取决于他是否事先就知道有这些问题。
Q. The book seems to conclude that Apple will go in a downward spiral without Steve as its leader. But Apple’s profits are still extremely high, and it continues to break sales records with iPhones and iPads. Why are those numbers not enough?
问：你在书中似乎得出结论说，没有史蒂夫的领导，苹果会每况愈下。但苹果的利润仍然相当高，iPhone和iPad仍不断打破销售记录。这些数字还不能说明问题吗？
A. In terms of profits and revenues, there is no question that Apple continues to be a successful company. But Apple’s own definition of success is much more. Its promise is to be exceptional – to make insanely great products that change the world. The latter is difficult to do without Steve Jobs’s reality distortion field. In its absence, Apple is simply less convincing.
答：在利润和营收方面，毫无疑问苹果仍然是一家成功的公司。但苹果自己对成功的定义远不止于此。它的承诺是杰出——创造出超乎寻常、能够改变世界的伟大产品。少了史蒂夫·乔布斯的“现实扭曲场”，这个承诺很难实现，苹果也不再那么有说服力。
If Apple lowers its bar of success to something closer to that of its competitors, then it could continue to do “great.” But then you’re talking about a great company on a more ordinary scale. And, likely, with lower profit margins to match.
如果苹果把成功的标准降低到和其竞争者差不多的水平，那它仍然可以做到“伟大”。但是那样的话，它就是一家更普通标准下的伟大公司。同理，对利润率的要求也要低一些。
Q. Where do you see Apple going in a few years? Does it remind you of any other big companies, and if so, how?
问：你觉得苹果未来几年会走向何方？它会让你想起其他的哪家大公司吗，如果会，为什么？
A. I can’t predict what is going to happen in the long term. Apple still has time to course-correct, and companies tend to go through cycles of peaks and valleys. What I do see is that Apple is currently struggling to cope with the loss of a visionary founder whose presence was an integral part of the company’s identity. At the same time, Apple is also trying to keep its dominance in a hyper-competitive industry.
答：我无法预测长期将发生什么。苹果仍然有时间改变路线，企业往往都会经历高峰和低谷的循环周期。我的确看到，在失去了一位有远见的创始人之后，由于这位创始人的存在已经成为公司身份的一部分，苹果目前已经难以应对他的离去。与此同时，苹果仍努力保持在行业的主导地位，而这一行业的竞争目前异常激烈。
The business challenges that Apple is facing would have been considerable even if Steve Jobs were around. His loss makes it all the more difficult because there is no one with the moral authority to take the kind of risks that made Apple so iconic in the first place. A hired manager will never have the same authority as a man who not only founded the company, but rescued it as well.
即使史蒂夫·乔布斯还活着，苹果面临的商业挑战也会相当大。而他的离去让苹果的处境更加艰难，因为没有人拥有承担某些风险的道德权威，而最初正是因为承担了这些风险，才成就了苹果的神话。一个聘请来的经理的权威性，怎么能和一个不仅创办、而且拯救过这家公司的人相提并论呢？
At the end of the day, Apple is just as mortal as everyone else. If Apple stays on the current trajectory, I think the danger is that it could turn into Sony.
归根到底，苹果和所有公司一样，都不可能长生不死。如果苹果保持当前的轨迹，我的担心是它可能变成索尼(Sony)。