The news, when it finally came, was hardly a surprise. But after the days of fruitless speculation, of webcams showing live scenes of inactivity, of bystanders photographing one another and of wilting reporters straining for new ways to say nothing was happening, the arrival of the newest royal heir on Monday afternoon turned out to be as much a relief as a joy.
当消息最终传来的时候，已经算不上惊喜了。但结果表明，在数天没有结果的猜测、摄像头实时画面显示没有一点动静、旁观者互相拍照、萎靡不振的记者竭力变着法子报道没有任何新情况之后，周一下午英国最新一位王位继承人的降生既是一件喜事，也让人们松了一口气。
The baby, a boy who weighed in at 8 pounds, 6 ounces, will not be king for some time: he has to wait in the long line behind his great-grandmother Queen Elizabeth; his grandfather Prince Charles; and his father, Prince William. Nor are British monarchs as important in the wider scheme of things as they were in, say, the 16th century.
这个8磅6盎司（约3.8千克）重的男婴暂时还当不上国王：他必须等待很长一段时间，在他的前面排着他的曾祖母伊丽莎白女王(Queen Elizabeth)、祖父查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)和父亲威廉王子(Prince William)。从大局上看，英国的君主也不如以往——比如16世纪——那么重要了。
But the birth of the as-yet-unnamed (at least as far as we know) royal son of William and his wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, gave Britain a chance to celebrate itself by connecting its past to its present, something it is especially good at.
但威廉和妻子剑桥公爵夫人(Duchess of Cambridge)膝下这个尚未起名（至少就我们所知）的王子的出生，让英国有机会通过把过去同现在联系起来为自己庆祝，在这一点上它是非常擅长的。
It also gave the wider world a chance to demonstrate once again that there is something about royal occasions that can apparently turn republicans into monarchists, however briefly, even in countries that renounced their own monarchies long ago.
这也给了英国之外的世界一个机会来证明，不管多么短暂，像这样的王族盛事似乎能把共和人士变成保皇党，哪怕是在很久前就摒弃了自己的君主的国家。
Failing that, it gave people here something to focus on that did not have to do with the bad political situation, the bad economy or the bad weather.
除此之外，它也能让英国民众的注意力转移到糟糕的政局、经济和天气以外的事情上。
Like a bride wearing something old and something new, Buckingham Palace announced the birth in a way that reflected both traditional pomp and modern circumstance. Yes, a piece of paper signed by the royal doctors and announcing that Kate “was safely delivered” of a boy was driven from the hospital to Buckingham Palace, where it was solemnly placed on an ornate, gold-trimmed easel to impress tourists.
就像一个混搭新旧装饰的新娘一样，白金汉宫宣布男婴降生的方式既体现出了传统上的隆重，也反映出了现代背景。是的，一纸有王室医生署名的文书被人开车从医院送至白金汉宫，它宣布凯特(Kate)“平安诞下”一名男婴。在白金汉宫，为了让游客心满意足，文件被庄严地放在一个装饰华丽的金边画架上。
But the palace first announced the birth the modern way, via a news release that meant the information flashed around the world before the piece of paper even made it into the car. The palace did not explain why it had reneged on its plan to make both statements simultaneously, but one possibility is that it wanted to forestall potential tabloid efforts to follow the car in a dangerous fashion while trying to photograph the contents of the paper.
但白金汉宫首先以现代的方式，即通过一份新闻稿宣布了婴儿的诞生，这意味着，在那张纸被带进车里之前，这个消息就已经传遍世界了。白金汉宫没有解释为何没有遵循同时以两种方式发表声明的计划，但有一个可能性是，白金汉宫希望预防小报为了拍摄那张文件的内容而以一种危险的方式尾随车辆。
Following ancient custom, political leaders in Britain hastened to join the happy bandwagon by expressing their pleasure. Prime Minister David Cameron announced on Twitter that he was “delighted” and that Kate and William would be “wonderful parents.”
遵循古老的习俗，英国的政界领导人很快加入狂欢的行列，表达自己的喜悦。首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在Twitter上宣布，他很“开心”，凯特和威廉将会是“出色的父母”。
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said that “this is wonderful news that will make the whole country smile.” And across the Atlantic, President Obama referred to the “special relationship” enjoyed by Britain and the United States — always a way to warm British hearts — and declared that he and his wife, Michelle, wished William and Kate “all the happiness and blessings parenthood brings.”
副首相尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)说“这是个会让举国上下喜笑颜开的好消息”。而在大西洋彼岸，奥巴马总统提到了英国和美国之间的“特殊关系”，这么说话总是能让英国人感到温暖，他还说，自己和妻子米歇尔(Michelle)祝愿威廉和凯特享受到“为人父母带来的幸福和快乐。”
Members of the royal family said they, too, were thrilled, led by Prince William, who said, “We could not be happier.”
以威廉王子为首的王室成员表示他们也很激动，威廉王子说，“我们无比高兴。”
The story began Monday morning when people woke up to the news that the Duchess of Cambridge, formerly known as Kate Middleton, was in the early stages of labor and that she had been admitted to St. Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, where Prince William was born 31 years ago.
故事是从周一早晨开始的，人们从睡梦中醒来，得知本名凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)的剑桥公爵夫人进入分娩初期，已经住进帕丁顿的圣玛丽医院(St. Mary's Hospital)，31年前威廉王子就是在这里出生的。
For most of the day, that was all the news there was. Hundreds of people gathered at the hospital to find out what was going on, but nothing was going on, at least as far as anyone told them. No one emerged to reveal whether Kate had an epidural, for instance, or whether she swore at William when he told her how to breathe — these are the Windsors, not the Kardashians — and the crowd had to wait in ignorance.
接下来一整天里，这基本上就是唯一的新闻了。数百人来到医院想探个究竟，但其实没发生什么，至少没人会来跟他们透露什么。比如说，没人告诉他们凯特是不是用了硬膜外麻醉，或者威廉在教她如何呼吸的时候被她痛骂——这是温莎王室，不是卡戴珊(Kardashian)那一家子——众人只能一无所知地等着。
It was the hottest day in seven years. Téba Diatta, a British-Senegalese Kate-and-William fan wrapped in a long, homemade Union Jack skirt, had made a cake to commemorate the occasion, but by the afternoon the icing had cracked and the writing had become partly illegible. “It used to say, ‘Come on Kate, we can’t wait, give us something to celebrate,’ ” Ms. Diatta said sadly.
这是七年来最热的一天。英裔塞内加尔人、“凯特和威廉”的粉丝苔芭·蒂亚塔(Téba Diatta)裹着一件长长的自制英国国旗恤衫，她做了一个蛋糕来纪念这个特殊的时刻，到了下午，蛋糕的糖衣已经开裂了，上面的字也变得模糊不清。“原来说的是，‘拜托了凯特，我们等不及了，给我们个庆祝的机会，’”蒂亚塔遗憾地说。
Meanwhile, another equally in-the-dark crowd had gathered at Buckingham Palace, many people pressed right up against the gates, as if they were prisoners trying to break out of their non-royal lives. Some were Britons who had come especially for the occasion; some were tourists who claimed they just happened to be there; others for some reason turned up in elaborate costumes.
与此同时，另一群同样蒙在鼓里的人聚集在白金汉宫，很多人干脆趴在大门上，就像一帮想要冲出平民生活牢笼的囚犯。有些是专为此事赶来的英国人；有些是自称凑巧来到此地的游客；还有些人，出于某些目的，穿了一身精心设计的戏装。
Some couples seemed to be in slight discord over the cosmic importance of the event.
一些夫妇在该事件的划时代意义上似乎并没有达成共识。
“We’re going to wait here until the baby’s born,” announced Denise Cave, a 49-year-old Canadian.
“我们要在这里一直等到宝宝出生，”49岁的加拿大人德妮思·凯夫(Denise Cave)宣布。
“We are?” said her husband, Wayne, 51, who did not share his wife’s unalloyed excitement. He thought of an alternative plan, whereby Ms. Cave could remain where she was to wait out the labor, while he went to “grab a beer and watch it on TV.”
“真的啊？”她的丈夫、51岁的韦恩(Wayne)说，他没有妻子那种专心致志的热情。他有个备选方案，凯夫太太继续在这里等着人家生孩子，他去“来瓶啤酒在电视上看。”
The news was released to huge cheers, and then an air of anticlimax. The reporters who had obsessively speculated for days about when the baby would be born enjoyed a moment of emotional satisfaction, and then switched to their next obsessive speculation: what the baby will be named.
喜讯传来，激起众人一片欢呼，但一股失落的情绪随之而来。在享受了一个心满意足的瞬间后，连日里孜孜不倦地推测孩子什么时候降生的记者们，转向了下一个要孜孜不倦推测的问题：孩子会取个什么名字。
The BBC reported that it took Prince William’s parents, Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales, a week to name their firstborn son, so who knows when this next bit of news will come. The palace said it would happen “in due course.”
据BBC报道，威廉王子的父母查尔斯王子和威尔士王妃戴安娜花了一个礼拜时间来为这个长子取名，所以天知道下一个新闻什么时候出。白金汉宫方面说会在“必要时”公布。
As night fell at the palace, the crowds realized that nothing else was going to happen — Queen Elizabeth, for instance, was not going to ruin generations of tradition and suddenly come out to answer their questions — and began to dissipate. They said it had been an arduous experience.
夜幕降临，宫殿外的人群意识到没有什么其他节目了——比如说伊丽莎白女王肯定不会打破延续了几代的传统，突然跑出来回答他们的问题——开始慢慢散去。他们说这是一段艰辛的经历。
“It was like going through labor,” said Michael Frederick, who works in public relations, speaking of the wait, and the heat, and the crowds, and the excitement, and finally of Kate. “I hope she realizes what I have been through.”
“这就跟经历一次分娩一样，”从事公关工作的迈克尔·弗雷德里克(Michael Frederick)如此评价这次的等待以及炎热的天气、人群和激动的心情，最后还说到凯特，“我希望她明白我都经历了些什么。”