Waiting around for someone else to give birth can be a slow and tedious marathon of an experience. But for the photographers and cameramen on royal baby-watch outside St. Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, the monotony has entered another stratosphere entirely.
有时候，等待他人分娩是个马拉松般缓慢而乏味的过程。不过，对在伦敦帕丁顿的圣玛丽医院(St. Mary’s Hospital)门外等待皇室婴儿降生的一众摄影师和摄像师而言，这种单调进入了一个全新的境界。
“At least when it’s your wife, you don’t go to the hospital until the wife’s in labor,” said Harry Rabbie, a BBC cameraman and father of two who spent much of Wednesday slumped inside the makeshift journalists’ refugee camp on the street outside St. Mary’s, passing the time with a romance novel titled “The Tycoon’s Seductive Revenge.” “This could happen 15 to 20 days after the due date,” he continued, speaking from personal experience, “even if we knew what the due date was.”
有两个孩子的BBC摄像师哈里·拉比(Harry Rabbie)说，“如果是自己妻子，至少是分娩的时候你才会去医院吧。”周三这天的大部分时间里，他都窝在圣玛丽医院门前的大街上临时搭建的记者难民营里，读一本名为《大亨诱人的报复》(The Tycoon’s Seductive Revenge)的爱情小说打发时间。根据个人经验，他补充说，“分娩有可能发生在预产期15天到20天后，就算我们知道预产期是什么时候。”
Britain is in high baby-anticipation mode, and the stores are flooded with items like “Born to Rule” onesies. But the truth is murky. There has been no official announcement about what day the baby in question, the first child of Prince William and the duchess formerly known as Kate Middleton, is expected to arrive. Despite one tabloid’s bold piece of information — B-Day is this Saturday, it declared — Buckingham Palace has said exactly one thing about the matter, and that was six months ago.
英国正处于高度期待皇室婴儿降生的状态，商店里塞满了诸如印着“天生王者”(Born to Rule)标语的婴儿连体衣这样的物件。但实情难料。即将降生的婴儿会是威廉王子(Prince William)与婚前名为凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)的公爵夫人的第一个孩子。官方没有发表声明宣布婴儿的预产期。尽管有一家小报大胆揣测预产期就是本周六，但在这个问题上，白金汉宫不多不少仅透露过一回，而且还是在六个月前。
“Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are delighted to confirm they are expecting a baby in July,” the palace said.
“剑桥公爵及夫人殿下高兴地证实，他们将于7月份迎来一名婴儿，”白金汉宫的声明称。
The photographers and cameramen duly set up camp on July 1, using masking tape to mark out territory for their stepladders. The month is one-third over, and there are no obvious signs that anything is happening. The duchess made her last scheduled public appearance on June 15, when she and her in-laws took part in the annual ritual known as Trooping the Color, which involves a lot of pageantry, including a military flyover and the requisite royal family appearance on the Buckingham Palace balcony. She wore a pink outfit and a pink hat, and she looked good.
摄影师和摄像师准时于7月1日安营扎寨，拿胶带为各自的梯凳划定地盘。这个月已经过去了三分之一，但还没什么明显的迹象表明有任何动静。公爵夫人最后一次按照计划公开露面是在6月15日。当时，她和一众姻亲出席了名为“旌旗操演”(Trooping the Color)的英女王寿辰庆典。庆典中仪式众多，包括飞行表演，以及必不可少的皇室成员在白金汉宫阳台的露面。当时，她身着粉色外套，搭配粉色礼帽，气色很好。
It is unclear where she is now, but the main choices seem to be at her marital home in Kensington Palace or with her parents in the country. Meanwhile, Prince William is reportedly still at work as a Royal Air Force search-and-rescue helicopter pilot in Anglesey, Wales, where he reportedly has a helicopter on permanent standby, ready to take off the moment his wife shows signs of labor. (“Operation Heir-Lift,” The Daily Mail reported.)
目前尚不清楚她身在何处，不过看来主要的可能性是，要么在她婚后的住所肯辛顿宫，要么在乡下父母家。与此同时，有报道称，威廉王子仍在威尔士的安格尔西岛，担任皇家空军的搜救直升机飞行员。报道还称，有一架直升机随时待命，一旦其妻有分娩征兆就会起飞。（《每日邮报》[The Daily Mail]称之为“继承人空运行动”[Operation Heir-Lift]）
We do know some things for sure, because Buckingham Palace has thrown us a few bones of information, maintaining its usual aura of semi-helpful but distant majesty. We know that the baby will be known as the Prince (or Princess) of Cambridge. We know that, thanks to recent changes in the law of royal succession, she (or he) will be the third in line to the throne, after Prince Charles, 64, and Prince William, 31, and that poor Prince Harry will be bounced down to fourth place. (It could take some time for this future monarch to become the current monarch. Queen Elizabeth is now 87 years old, but she is not the abdicating kind, and there are longevity genes in the family; her own mother lived to be 102.)
其实，我们还是拥有一些确定无疑的信息的，因为白金汉宫按照一贯的风格向我们扔出了只言片语，似乎有所帮助，又保持了皇室的距离感。我们知道，婴儿的头衔将为剑桥王子（或公主）。我们还知道，鉴于皇室继承法最近进行了修改，她（或他）将是第三顺位继承人，仅次于64岁的查尔斯亲王(Prince Charles)和31岁的威廉王子，而可怜的哈里王子(Prince Harry)将被挤到第四位。（这名未来的君主大概得等上好一阵才能加冕。伊丽莎白女王[Queen Elizabeth]现年87岁，而且无意退位，家族又有长寿基因；她的母亲活了102岁。）
We know that when the baby comes, the news will go out the old-fashioned way, by proclamation. A document signed by the medical team and revealing the sex of the child will be taken from the hospital and placed on an easel installed inside the Buckingham Palace gates, ready to be gaped at by tourists and other passers-by. Only then will the palace release the news on social media. “There is no intention of announcing this first on Twitter,” a palace spokeswoman said.
我们也知道，婴儿降生后，消息将通过传统的声明方式发布。一份由医疗团队签发并公开婴儿性别的文件将由医院送到白金汉宫大门内安放的木架上，等待接受游客和行人的查阅。到那个时候，皇室还会在社交媒体上发布消息。“没有首先在Twitter上宣布的打算，”皇室女发言人表示。
We know that the medical team will be led by Marcus Setchell, the royal household’s official surgeon and gynecologist. We know that Prince William plans to take time off once his baby arrives. “He will be working right up to the end, and then he will take two weeks standard paternity leave,” the spokeswoman said.
我们知道医疗小组将由王室御用外科和妇科医生马库斯·塞切尔(Marcus Setchell)领导。我们知道威廉姆王子打算在孩子出生后休假。“他会一直工作到最后，然后按照标准休两周的父亲陪产假，”女发言人说。
We know that bookmakers, eager to capitalize on the British love of gambling, have been taking bets on anything and everything: length of labor, time of birth, sex of baby, name of baby. (The current favorite names, based on nothing but public opinion, are Elizabeth, Alexandra, Charlotte and Diana for girls, and George and James for boys.)
我们知道指望靠着英国人的赌博狂热获利的博彩公司已经把什么都拿出来开盘了：分娩时长、出生时间、孩子的性别、孩子的名字。（目前公众心目中最受欢迎的名字，女孩是伊丽莎白、亚历珊德拉、夏洛特和戴安娜，男孩是乔治和詹姆斯。）
The rest of the things fall into the category of amusing but hazily sourced speculation. Will Kate’s mother, Carole Middleton, be with her during her labor? Does Mr. Setchell — surgeons in Britain do not use the honorific “Dr.” — have a specially encrypted cellphone on which he communicates with the royal family? Is the prime minister of Australia planning to give the royal couple a stuffed kangaroo as a baby present?
其他的就都是好玩但来路不明的猜测了。凯特的母亲卡萝尔·米德尔顿(Carole Middleton)会去陪产吗？塞切尔先生——英国的外科医生不用“医生”这个敬称——真的有一个经过特殊加密的手机，专门用于和王室的联络吗？澳大利亚总理会送给王室夫妇一只袋鼠填充玩偶作为新生贺礼吗？
Will Kate and William ever use the items — diaper rash cream, a pacifier and a packet of condoms, among other things — in the box sent by the Finnish government and given as a matter of course to Finnish mothers-to-be? Is it true that Kate is not “too posh to push,” and plans to have a natural birth, not a Caesarean? What kind of post-baby exercise regime will her superfit sister, Pippa, subject her to?
丹麦政府送了一只盒子给凯特和威廉，每个临产的丹麦母亲按规定都会得到这样一只盒子，里面有尿布疹护理霜、一个安抚奶嘴、一盒安全套等等，两夫妇会用这些东西吗？凯特真的不会“太娇柔只能剖”，打算采取自然分娩而不是剖宫产吗？她那位身材一流的妹妹皮帕(Pippa)会帮她制定怎样的产后锻炼计划？
Meanwhile, the wait continues. A small frisson of excitement shivered through the crowd outside St. Mary’s on Wednesday, when a helicopter was spotted overhead, but it turned out to contain a regular citizen having a health emergency, not a duchess having a baby.
与此同时，等待还在继续。聚集在圣玛丽医院外的人群周三小小地激动了一下，有人发现头顶有架直升机飞过，结果只是被送来急救的普通市民，不是公爵夫人要生小宝宝。
In truth, no one is even sure that people are in fact waiting in the correct place. The journalists’ camp is set up at the front entrance to the Lindo Wing, a private ward of the hospital. This is where Prince William — the first heir to the throne to be born in a hospital, rather than at home — was himself born, in 1982, and where the new baby is also reportedly to be born.
事实上大家甚至都不知道是不是来对了地方。记者都驻扎在医院的私人住院部林多翼楼(Lindo Wing)门口。作为首位在医院而非家中降生的王位继承人，威廉王子本人就是1982年在这里出生的，据报道他的孩子也会生在这里。
But is this the right entrance? The photographers said that they were waiting at the front door for one reason alone, to grab a shot of Kate as she makes the historic journey from vehicle to hospital. But the palace seemed to throw cold water on that plan. “We will not be talking about how she will get there,” the spokeswoman said. “Once she is safely inside, we will confirm that she is inside.”
但是就是这个入口吗？摄影师说他们在这里等候只为一个原因，要抓拍凯特从车上下来进入医院那个历史性的瞬间。但是王室似乎给他们的这个计划泼了凉水。女发言人说，“我们不会透露她将以何种方式去医院。等她安全到达医院内，我们会确认她已经进入医院。”
The police officers on duty had nothing useful to add. “There’s always a back entrance,” noted one, “although I’m not privileged with that information.”
当值警官也没有提供什么有价值的信息。“后门总是会有的，”其中一位警官称，“不过以我的级别不足以掌握这种信息。”
Nor was the security guard stationed outside any the wiser. He sounded a little wistful. “They don’t tell me anything, I’m afraid,” he said.
医院外站岗的那位保安知道的也不多。他听上去有点伤感，“他们恐怕什么都不会告诉我的，”他说。