LONDON — When the rich, the powerful and the upper crust in England contemplate their families-to-be, it is said, they aim for a minimum of two children — an heir to their estates and a “spare” should misfortune befall the first.
伦敦——据说，当英格兰富裕而有权势的上流阶层考虑他们未来的家庭成员时，会至少想要两个孩子——一个是财产继承人，另一个则是“备胎”，以防头一个孩子遭遇不幸。
So it was, in modern times, that Diana, Princess of Wales, and Prince Charles, the first in line to the throne, produced two sons before their divorce in 1996 and her death in a car crash a year later.
现代社会也是如此，威尔士王妃戴安娜(Diana)和英国王位第一顺位继承人查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)生了两个儿子。这对夫妇于1996年离婚。次年，戴安娜丧生车祸。
And so it emerged on Monday that their firstborn son, Prince William, and his wife, the former Kate Middleton, who is now Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, have followed the hallowed tradition. Less than 14 months after the birth of their son, Prince George — third in line to the throne after his grandfather and his father — the couple announced that the duchess was pregnant with their second child.
周一，他们的长子威廉王子(Prince William)和他本名为凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)的妻子——现在叫作剑桥公爵夫人凯瑟琳(Catherine)——也遵守了这个神圣的传统。在儿子乔治王子(Prince George)出生不到14个月后，夫妇二人宣布，公爵夫人怀上了第二胎。乔治王子是王位第三顺位继承人，排在他的祖父和父亲之后。
But this tale of succession has quickly taken a more dramatic turn: Would their “spare” serve as insurance not only for their family’s future, but also for that of the realm?
然而，关于王位继承的故事很快发生了一个更为戏剧化的转折：他们的“备胎”是否不仅是为了担保王室的未来，而且还是为了担保联合王国的未来？
Word of the pregnancy came just a day after an opinion survey indicated that the “yes” vote in a referendum on Scottish independence, which is set for next week, had edged ahead for the first time, suggesting that Scottish voters might dismantle their 307-year-old union with England by seceding from the United Kingdom.
就在公爵夫人怀孕的消息传来的前一天，民意调查表明，在针对苏格兰是否独立的公投中倾向投“赞成”票的人数首次略微领先。这意味着，在下周举行的公投中，苏格兰选民可能会选择脱离联合王国，结束与英格兰307年的联盟关系。
“With 10 days until Scotland votes on whether to remain part of the — proudly royal — British union, could the excitement over the news that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their second baby help keep England and Scotland together?” asked Olivia Goldhill, a columnist for the conservative Daily Telegraph.
保守派报刊《每日电讯报》(The Daily Telegraph)的专栏作者奥利维娅·戈尔德希尔(Olivia Goldhill)问道，“距离苏格兰对是否继续留在令人自豪的大不列颠联合王国中进行投票仅剩下不到10天的工夫，此时，剑桥公爵夫妇即将迎来第二个孩子的消息传来。对此的兴奋之情能否让英格兰和苏格兰维持统一？”
Alert to a potential shift in the winds of fortune, Alex Salmond, the pro-independence Scottish prime minister, pointedly offered his congratulations on Twitter to the “Earl & Countess of Strathearn,” the 14th-century title that the couple use when traveling in Scotland.
支持独立的苏格兰首席大臣亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)对形势可能发生变化保持警惕，特意在Twitter上向“斯特拉森伯爵与伯爵夫人”表示祝贺。威廉王子夫妇前往苏格兰时，会采用这一源于14世纪的头衔。
The eagerness with which commentators leapt onto the Scottish question was not a surprise. The referendum on Sept. 18 has heightened passions north and south of the border between England and Scotland.
评论人士对此事与苏格兰问题挂钩表现出的热衷不足为奇。将在9月18日举行的公投同时刺激了英格兰和苏格兰两个地区的情绪。
The duke and duchess have particular ties to Scotland. The royal family’s writ — largely ceremonial but profoundly emotive — extends across the United Kingdom. The queen and her family often spend time at Balmoral Castle in Scotland, and the duke and duchess, both 32, met at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
剑桥公爵夫妇与苏格兰有着特殊的联系。王室的权威主要是礼仪性的，却具备巨大的情绪感染力，而且覆盖到了整个联合王国。女王和家人通常会在苏格兰的巴尔莫勒尔堡消磨时光，而同为32岁的公爵和公爵夫人也是在苏格兰圣安德鲁斯大学(University of St. Andrews)认识的。
But will that sway next week’s vote?
但这会左右下周的投票吗？
“So one guesses (to borrow a royal usage) that for every Scot persuaded by the romance and charisma of the queen to change their vote, there will be another who is turned off by being told what to do by an Englishwoman, no matter how highborn,” the columnist Sean O’Grady wrote in The Independent.
“有人猜测（借用一句王室用语），这种浪漫情怀和女王的魅力每说服一个苏格兰人改变主意，就会有另一个人因为要听命于一个英格兰女人而心生厌恶，不管这位女士的出身有多么高贵，”专栏作者肖恩·奥格雷迪(Sean O’Grady)在《独立报》(The Independent)上撰文写道。
In a different vein, there was speculation about the likely personality of the unborn royal, based on birth order. Some royal experts forecast that just as William projected a more staid image than his devil-may-care younger brother, Prince Harry, so the new royal baby could behave more rambunctiously than Prince George.
此事的另一种走向是，有人开始根据出生顺序推测这位尚未出生的王室成员可能具有的性格。一些王室问题专家预测，就像威廉表现出的形象比无所顾忌的弟弟哈里王子(Prince Harry)更严肃保守，即将到来的王室宝宝可能也会比乔治王子(Prince George)举止更活泼。