Michelle Obama is not the only first lady who has become adept at using fashion as a form of subtle sartorial outreach to foreign leaders.
与外国领导人会面时，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)擅长将时尚作为一种微妙的服装沟通手段，不过她不是唯一精于此道的第一夫人。 
On Tuesday night in London at the Palace state dinner in honor of President Xi Jinping of China, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge (the British first lady in waiting), demonstrated her own ability to employ dress as a form of diplomacy, wearing a gown by the British designer Jenny Packham — in a bright shade of red, the Chinese national color. She also wore a tiara lent by the palace and known as the Lotus Flower or Papyrus tiara.
星期二晚上在伦敦白金汉宫国宴厅迎接中国国家主席习近平时，剑桥公爵夫人、凯特王妃（轮候中的英国第一夫人）亦展现了时装外交的手腕，她身穿英国设计师珍妮·帕克汉(Jenny Packham)设计的鲜红色长裙（红色是中国的国色），还戴了自白金汉宫借来的头饰，它被称为“莲花头饰”，或“纸莎草头饰”。
It was a quietly clever country-bridging choice and gave shape to the words of her grandmother-in-law, Queen Elizabeth II, who noted the dinner was celebrating the “ties between our two countries.”
这个聪明的选择有助于在两国之间架起桥梁，不言不语之间便凸显了她的岳祖母、英国女王伊丽莎白二世的话：这次国宴是为了庆贺“两国之间的纽带”。
If it also called to mind the red Alexander McQueen dress Mrs. Obama had worn to her first China state dinner in 2011 — the one that caused an outcry because of her choice of a non-American designer — it avoided the same brand misstep, promoting a British name.
这件衣服也让人联想起奥巴马夫人2011年第一次在中国国宴上穿的那件红色亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)长裙，当时还引发了争议之声，因为她竟然没有选择美国设计师。这一次凯特王妃没有犯同样的错误，选了一个英国名字。 
Indeed, the duchess has worn Ms. Packham on numerous occasions; along with Sarah Burton of Alexander McQueen, she may be Catherine’s most-worn brand.
事实上，除了莎拉·伯顿(Sarah Burton)为亚历山大·麦昆设计的服装，剑桥公爵夫人在许多场合都穿过帕克汉设计的服装，这可能算是凯特王妃最常穿着的品牌了。
The duchess wore Jenny Packham, for example, for the public introduction of both of her children, Princess Charlotte and Prince George, when she left the hospital after their births; she wore Jenny Packham (for the third time) to the gala dinner at the Metropolitan Museum of Art during her New York visit with Prince William last year; and she wore Jenny Packham to the ARK Gala in 2011, the first time she and Prince William appeared as a royal couple. That’s the dress her doppelgänger is also wearing in Madame Tussauds.
比如说，剑桥公爵夫人生完乔治王子和夏洛特公主出院后，在为两个孩子举办的公众介绍会上都穿了珍妮·帕克汉；去年，她同威廉王子访问纽约期间出席大都会艺术博物馆慈善晚宴时，（第三次）穿了珍妮·帕克汉；2011年，她与威廉王子第一次以皇室夫妇公开亮相，出席ARK Gala晚宴时，身上穿的正是珍妮·帕克汉。她在杜莎夫人蜡像馆的蜡像也是穿了这条裙子。
Ms. Packham is one of those designers who tend to fly under the fashion radar — she has never won a British Fashion Award for red-carpet designer, for example, or its predecessor category, Glamour — though she is probably one of the most-worn British names on the red carpet, by the likes of Helen Mirren and Taylor Swift.
帕克汉是那种在时装雷达面前保持低调的设计师，比如说，她从来没有因红毯时装设计而获得英国时尚大奖(British Fashion Award)，也没有获得过其前身Glamour奖。但她可能又是英国红毯上最常出现的英国品牌了，海伦·米伦(Helen Mirren)和泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)都穿过。
Her clothes are simply very pretty, and pretty flattering, without being very demanding or statement-making, a trait that often gets them dismissed as boring by the style set, but that makes them ideal for the public figure trying to tread the line between message and mass appeal without making any waves.
她设计的衣服简洁美丽，颇显身材，对穿着者要求不高，并且比较低调，所以潮人们常常觉得她乏味，但对于既想传达信息，又想取悦大众，同时亦不想节外生枝的公众人物来说，算是理想的选择。