A NEW goddess has emerged like Botticelli’s Venus rising from the sea. Caitlyn Jenner gazes out from Annie Leibovitz’s July Vanity Fair cover, bare save for a satin bodysuit. Her auburn curls tumble over alabaster shoulders. Can she really be the avatar of personal freedom and self-expression the media claims her to be?
就像波提切利笔下从海上升起的维纳斯一样，一位新女神诞生了。由安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)操刀的《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)7月刊封面照片中的凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)凝视着前方，只穿了一件缎面紧身衣，红褐色的卷发垂落在光洁的双肩上。然而，真的像媒体宣称的那样，她体现了个人自由与自我表达吗？
Caitlyn Jenner’s transition is more than a private matter. It is a commercial spectacle on an enormous scale, revealing some disturbing truths about what we value and admire in women.
凯特琳·詹纳的转渡不只是件私事。这是一项规模庞大的商业宣传活动，揭露了一些令人不安的真相——我们究竟看重和欣赏女性的哪些方面。
Inside the magazine, Ms. Jenner poses in skintight dresses, a cinched black lace corset and two different gold evening gowns — the kind of outfits favored by her voluptuous stepdaughter, Kim Kardashian. She lounges on a sofa, peers into mirrors or reclines with her head thrown back, eyes closed. In keeping with the classic iconography of female stardom, Ms. Jenner appears languid and glamorous, her body still and on display rather than performing any activity.
在杂志内页，詹纳身着紧身裙、黑色蕾丝紧身胸衣及两件不同的金色晚礼服摆出造型，正是她丰满妖娆的继女金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)喜欢的装束。她放松地躺在沙发上，凝视着镜子，或是仰头闭目地向后倚靠。她显得慵懒迷人，身体保持静态，并没有展示没有什么活动，很符合经典的女明星肖像照的特色。
Ms. Jenner is 65 years old, but Caitlyn “codes” many decades younger. Her features are tiny and doll-like, her lips plumped, her skin lineless. Even her new chosen first name feels bizarrely girlish, conjuring more a college student, or maybe a sixth Kardashian sister, than a grandmother.
詹纳现年65岁，但凯特琳“显得”年轻几十岁。她拥有小巧的五官、娃娃般的相貌，嘴唇丰满，皮肤光滑。就连她选择的新名字也给人一种奇怪的少女感，更像是一名大学生，亦或是卡戴珊家族的第六个姐妹，而不是什么老奶奶。
We have known for months that Bruce Jenner was becoming a woman, and we rejoice if this brings her happiness. But were we prepared for this woman?
我们几个月前就知道布鲁斯·詹纳(Bruce Jenner)准备成为女人。如果这能给她带来快乐，我们也很开心。但我们准备好接受眼前这个女人了吗？
What does it mean that Ms. Jenner’s newly revealed “true self” (in her own words) comes packaged like a 30-something starlet along the lines of her famous daughters and stepdaughters? She is even likened to “an elegant starlet” in the Vanity Fair profile. Like her children, Caitlyn will soon allow her life to be minutely chronicled in a reality television show, produced by the same team responsible for “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” — that docudrama devoted to makeup, hookups, breakups and, of course, plastic surgery and clothes.
詹纳新近展现的“真我”（这是她的原话），按照她那些有名的女儿和继女的套路，装扮成看似30来岁的小明星。这又代表着什么呢？在《名利场》的特写文章中，她甚至直接被比作“优雅新星”。就像她的孩子们一样，凯特琳将很快参加电视真人秀，记录下自己生活的分分秒秒。节目将由《与卡戴珊姐妹同行》(Keeping Up with the Kardashians)的团队制作，而那个真人秀闹剧一心展现的是化妆、勾搭、分手，当然还有整形手术和服装。
Long ago, Ms. Jenner was a hero, admired for dazzling athletic skills. Even on the Kardashian show, Bruce often distinguished himself as the voice of reason amid a circus of vanity and consumerism. But as Vanity Fair’s Caitlyn, Ms. Jenner has morphed into a consumable commodity — a strangely static, oddly youthful and elaborately adorned body that is, rather than does. This seems less the liberation of a true self than a reminder of the straitjacket requirements of acceptable, desirable womanhood.
詹纳很久之前就是个英雄，因为惊人的运动技能而受人钦佩。即便在卡戴珊的真人秀中，布鲁斯也会因为在虚荣心和消费主义泛滥的环境中发出理性的声音而不时显得与众不同。然而，作为《名利场》上的凯特琳，詹纳变成了一件可消费的商品——一具异常安静、年轻、精心装扮的躯壳，而不是一名能够行动的个人。这似乎更多的是在提醒大家一个令人倾慕的女性需要满足的约束条件，而不是什么解放真正的自我。
That Ms. Jenner makes an excellent icon of fashion is unsurprising. Not only has she long lived within the corridors of Hollywood celebrity, but her physique — still the slim-hipped, sinewy body of a male Olympic athlete — actually lends itself (with a few tweaks) more easily to the female modelesque ideal than do most genetically female bodies. And certainly, very few transwomen could achieve this aesthetic ideal either, as the actress and transgender activist Laverne Cox has pointed out in a widely read Tumblr post.
詹纳成为一名出色的风尚偶像，并不让人吃惊。她不仅长期生活在好莱坞明星圈中，而且她的体形——依旧保持着奥运会男运动员的臀部紧实、肌肉发达——实际上使得它（稍作调整）就比大多数天生的女性躯体更容易成为女模特般的典范。而且可以肯定的是，就像演员兼跨性别活动人士拉文·考克斯(Laverne Cox)在Tumblr发布的一篇广为流传的帖子中指出的那样，很少有跨性别女性能够实现这样的美学理想。
What of the millions of other 65-year-old women, whether born female or trans, who deserve attention? The millions of women who become invisible with age and could never successfully mimic a Kardashian (and would not wish to)? They remain offstage and out of mind, their own accomplishments unknown to us.
那无数值得关注的其他65岁女性——无论是天生的女性还是跨性别者——怎么办呢？那无数随着年龄增长而被忽略、从来不能（也不愿）成功效仿卡戴珊的女性呢？她们身处幕后，被人忘却，成就不为我们所了解。
What’s more, those few women of Ms. Jenner’s age category who do manage to enter the public arena are routinely excoriated simply for being older — see the endless discussions on whether Hillary Clinton is “too old” to be president — or else they’re shamed for trying to appear younger via cosmetic enhancement.
此外，少数跟詹纳年龄相仿并成功进入公众视野的女性会仅仅因为年龄而频繁遭到攻击——比如有关希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)“太老”而不适合当总统的无尽讨论——或者是因为试图通过美容来显得年轻而蒙受羞辱。
The French writer Simone de Beauvoir famously wrote that “one is not born a woman, one becomes one.” She was referring to the innumerable embellishments, codes of behavior and self-censoring acts required by femininity, the turning of the self into a prestige commodity. In becoming a woman before our eyes, Caitlyn Jenner proves that little has changed since 1949, when de Beauvoir wrote those words. To be admired in the public eye, to be seen, a woman must still conform to an astonishingly long, often contradictory list of physical demands — the most important being that she not visibly age.
法国作家西蒙娜·德·波伏娃(Simone de Beauvoir)有一句名言，“女人不是天生的，而是后天形成的。”她指的是女性特质所要求的数不胜数的修饰、行为规范和自我审查，那种将自己变成名贵商品的做法。凯特琳·詹纳在我们眼前转渡为女性的过程，恰恰证明了，自1949年波伏娃写下那句名言以来，世道几乎没有什么改变。要想受到公众的赞美和关注，女性仍旧必须符合一长串往往相互矛盾的外在要求——最重要的是，她必须不显老。
While the fanfare around the emergence of Caitlyn may advance our acceptance of transgendered individuals, it does so, in this case, at a price: the perpetuation, even celebration, of narrow and dehumanizing strictures of womanhood sustained by the fashion and entertainment industries. True liberation of gender’s vast spectrum should ask more of us than that we simply exchange one uncomfortable, oppressive identity for another.
虽然有关凯特琳女性身份的宣传可能会推动我们接受跨性别者，但在这个案例中， 达到这种效果付出了代价：它让时尚娱乐界对女性丧失人性的严格约束得以永久延续，甚至获得颂扬。要想真正释放多样的性别光谱，我们应该做得更多，而不是用一个令人不舒服的、难以忍受的身份换取又一个这样的身份。