LONDON — Britain’s international image may have taken a beating over the past year, as the country proceeds with its stuttering exit from the European Union known as Brexit, but its unique asset was on full display Monday.
伦敦——在过去一年中，随着继续推进磕磕绊绊的“退欧”进程，英国的国际形象或许受损，但该国独特的优势周一得到了淋漓尽致的展现。
The royal family just keeps on delivering.
王室又传来添丁消息。
At 11:01 a.m., Kate, the duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to an 8-pound, 7-ounce boy, the third child for her and Prince William. William was present in the delivery room, and he later jumped in a sport utility vehicle and ferried his two younger children to the hospital to meet their newborn brother.
上午11时01分，剑桥公爵夫人诞下了一名8磅7盎司（约合3.8公斤）重的男孩，这是她与威廉王子(Prince William)的第三个孩子。威廉一开始在产房内，后来跳上了一辆SUV，将两个小孩送到医院，见他们新生出来的弟弟。
The news radiated out of the Lindo Ward and down South Wharf Road, where a cheerful, punchy crowd had swelled over the course of the day. A man dressed as a town crier, in knee breeches and a tricorn hat, appeared on the hospital steps, ringing a very large handbell.
消息从圣玛丽医院林多妇产中心及南沃尔夫街传了出来，当天，一群兴高采烈的民众在这里聚集。一名男子扮成了公告传报员的样子，穿着齐膝短裤、戴着三角帽，出现在了医院大门前的台阶上，不停摇着一个巨大的手摇铃。
“Oyez, oyez, oyez, we’ve got a royal baby, a prince!” he bellowed, and a small knot of royalists posted across the road, drinking sparkling wine out of plastic cups, responded in kind: “Hip hip hooray! Hip hip hooray! It’s a boy, born on St. George’s Day!”
“肃静、肃静、肃静，我们有了一个王室宝宝，一名王子！”他喊道。还有一小群保皇主义者在街对面用塑料杯喝着起泡酒，用“啦啦啦万岁！啦啦啦万岁！是个男孩，生于圣乔治节！”回应道。
It was testament to the enduring fascination with Britain’s royal family, invigorated in recent months by the pregnancy of the duchess and by the coming wedding of Prince Harry to Meghan Markle, an American actress.
这是公众对英国王室持久兴趣的明证，在近几个月，这种兴趣因公爵夫人的怀孕及即将到来的哈里王子(Prince Harry)与美国女演员梅根·马克尔(Meghan Markle)的婚礼而大增。
“What this does for us as a country, the monarchy, this will push us through Brexit,” said Darren French, who had come out of a hospital ward, wearing slippers and flapping cotton pajamas, to watch the spectacle. A black cab was slowly circling the block, with a wax figure of Queen Elizabeth II seated in the back.
“这件事为我们国家，为这个君主制能做什么，它能推动我们完成‘退欧’”，达伦·弗兰奇(Darren French)说。为了观看这场壮观场面，他刚刚从医院病房出来，穿着拖鞋和下垂的棉睡衣。一辆黑色出租车缓慢地来回在这个街区兜圈，车后座上放着女王伊丽莎白二世的蜡像。
“A lot of countries respect our monarchy,” French added. “It makes us look solid. It makes us look staunch.”
“许多国家都尊重我们的君主制，”弗兰奇补充道。“这让我们看起来稳固。让我们看起来坚定。”
Representatives of betting houses had been out on the sidewalk since morning with chalkboards, updating the odds on possible names for the baby. (Arthur led the male names, with 2-1 odds, and Alice led the girls’ names, 5-1.)
带着黑板的博彩公司代表一早就来到了人行道上，更新着婴儿可能取的名字赔率。（男子名中，亚瑟[Arthur]以2比1的赔率领先；女子名中，爱丽丝[Alice]以5比1的赔率领先。）
The baby’s birth came a week before Kate and William’s seventh wedding anniversary and, perhaps more important in the eyes of the English news media and public, occurred on St. George’s Day, named after England’s patron saint.
婴儿的诞生是在凯特和威廉结婚七周年纪念日的一个星期之前，而在英国的新闻媒体和公众眼中，更为重要的或许是他出生在得名于英国守护圣人的圣乔治日。
The couple’s first child, George, was born on July 22, 2013, and their second, Charlotte, on May 2, 2015.
这对夫妻的第一个孩子乔治，出生于2013年6月22日；第二个孩子夏洛特，出生于2015年5月2日。
The new child will be fifth in line for the throne, following Prince Charles, William, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, and before Harry. Changes to the Succession to the Crown Act in 2013 removed male bias, meaning that Charlotte is the first girl to go before her younger brother in the royal line of succession.
这个新生儿将在王位继承人中排第五顺位，位列查尔斯王子、威廉、乔治王子、夏洛特公主之后，哈里王子之前。2013年，王位继承法案的修改废除了男性偏见，这意味着夏洛特成了王室继承序列中第一个排在弟弟前面的女孩。
Kate gave birth in a familiar setting: the Lindo Wing is where Charlotte, George and several other members of the royal family were born. Its website notes, “Discretion is key to our service, and we will ensure that you have the space, security and privacy you need to enjoy these precious early moments as a family.”
凯特是在一个熟悉的环境中生产的：夏洛特、乔治和其他几名王室成员出生的林多。它们的网站写着：“谨慎是我们服务的关键，我们确保您拥有您所需的空间、安全和隐私来享受宝贵的家庭早期时光。”
Despite that promise, the street outside was mobbed with journalists, who were sorted by caste. The royal press corps, from major British outlets, had their own enclosure. They were dressed in trench coats and handsome suits, like intelligence agents. Farther down the road was the enclosure for unaccredited journalists, who were broadcasting live in a variety of Eastern European languages, and searching for nonjournalists to interview.
尽管有着这样的承诺，但外面的街道上还是围满了按各自地位扎堆的记者。来自英国主要媒体的王室记者团有自己的领地，像情报特工一样穿着风衣和利落的西装。更远的地方是未经授权的记者的地盘，他们用各式的东欧语言做着现场直播，寻找着不是记者的人进行采访。
Among the rubberneckers were a large number of visitors from other monarchies.
在看热闹的人群中，有许多来自其他君主制国家的游客。
Bushra Siddiqui, 42, who was there on her lunch break, said she admired the British royals for their accessibility. In Saudi Arabia, where she was born, the royal families live in total separation from the general public.
42岁的布什拉·西迪基(Bushra Siddiqui)利用午餐休息时间来到这里，她表示自己喜爱英国王室的平易近人。在她出生的沙特阿拉伯，王室的生活完全与大众隔离。
“We don’t find out when their babies are born,” she said. “We don’t know how many kids they have. We don’t know how many wives they have.”
“我们不知道他们的孩子什么时候出生，”她说。“我们不知道他们有几个孩子。我们不知道他们有几个老婆。”
But Yasin Ozyaprak, 21, from the Netherlands, said he liked the British royal family for the opposite reason, complaining that the Dutch royals are now so accessible that they have lost their mystique.
但来自荷兰的21岁的亚辛·奥兹雅普拉科(Yasin Ozyaprak)说，他喜欢英国王室的原因恰恰相反，他抱怨，荷兰的王室现在太容易接近了，都失去了神秘感。
“I like the distance,” he said. “When the Dutch princesses go to school, they just ride bikes. If you see the king, you just go up and speak to him.”
“我喜欢有点距离，”他说。“荷兰公主去上学时，她们就骑辆自行车。如果看到了国王，你可以直接走上去和他说话。”