SAN FRANCISCO — Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm, is offering a new deal to the former associate who unsuccessfully sued the firm, accusing it of gender discrimination: Promise not to pursue this case any further or pay us $1 million.
旧金山——风险投资公司凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)的一名前同事曾控告该公司性别歧视，但最终败诉。该公司向她提出了一个新协议：承诺不再上诉，否则就要赔偿他们100万美元（约合619万元人民币）。
The offer was made in papers filed this week in California Superior Court in San Francisco. The firm said the case, which drew an abundance of unfavorable attention to its inner workings and the fate of women in Silicon Valley, cost it $972,815 in witness fees, deposition and court reporter costs.
该公司在本周向位于旧金山的加州最高法院(California Superior Court)提交的文件中提出了这一方案。凯鹏华盈表示，该案件引发了对其内部工作及硅谷女性命运的大量关注，带来不利影响，导致公司在证人、证词、法院书记官方面花费了97.2815万美元。
As the winning party, Kleiner is asking the former associate, Ellen Pao, to reimburse it for these bills. But if she forgoes any appeal and lets the case die, the firm will forgive and forget, or at least move on.
作为获胜方，凯鹏华盈要求前同事鲍康如(Ellen Pao)赔偿这些费用。但如果她放弃上诉，终结此案，该公司会尽释前嫌，或至少不再追究。
“We believe that women in technology would be best served by having all parties focus on making progress on the issues of gender diversity outside of continued litigation,” said Christina Lee, a Kleiner spokeswoman.
凯鹏华盈女发言人克里斯蒂娜·李(Christina Lee)表示，“除了继续起诉，各方都努力在性别多样性问题上取得进展，我们相信科技行业的女性会受益无穷。”
A jury at the end of March rejected all of Ms. Pao’s claims. Legal fees, which must have been considerable on both sides, are not on the table.
陪审团在3月末驳回了鲍康如提出的所有指控。诉讼费并未公开，双方的诉讼费肯定都不低。
Ms. Pao’s chief lawyer, Alan Exelrod, did not return a call for comment. Ms. Pao has not said whether she will pursue an appeal, and the grounds on which she would do so are uncertain.
鲍康如的首席律师艾伦·阿斯莱(Alan Exelrod)没有回复请求置评的电话。鲍康如并未表示是否会提起上诉，以及若上诉将会采取何种依据。
The judge in the case, Harold Kahn, made no obvious rulings that seemed to favor the defense. If anything, the opposite was true. He declined to allow testimony about Ms. Pao’s husband, Alphonse Fletcher Jr., whose hedge fund is bankrupt.
此案的法官哈罗德·卡恩(Harold Kahn)并没有做出似乎有利于被告的明显裁决。事情有可能正好相反。他否决了关于鲍康如的丈夫小阿方斯·弗莱彻(Alphonse Fletcher Jr.)的证词。弗莱彻的对冲基金已经破产。
Debra S. Katz, a Washington, D.C., lawyer who specializes in gender discrimination suits, said Kleiner sounded a little punitive.
专门研究性别歧视案件的华盛顿特区律师黛博拉·S·卡茨(Debra S. Katz)说，听起来凯鹏华盈有惩罚对方之意。
“If Kleiner wanted to look classy, it could have said, ‘This was hard fought and we obviously disagree with your view, but it’s in the interest of all parties to walk away. In the meantime, there have been lessons learned and we are going to fund organizations that focus on glass ceiling issues,’ ” Ms. Katz said.
卡茨说，“如果凯鹏华盈想摆出高姿态，它就可以说，‘这是一场艰难的战斗，我们明显不同意你的观点，但放弃对各方都有好处。同时，我们也获得了一些经验教训，准备为专注于玻璃天花板问题的机构提供资助。”
The vast majority of the fees Kleiner is trying to recover are for witnesses. The fees for Paul Gompers, a professor at Harvard Business School, were $92,700, the filing says.
凯鹏华盈试图收回的大部分费用都是用于证人的。文件称，给哈佛大学商学院(Harvard Business School)教授保罗·冈珀斯(Paul Gompers)的费用是9.27万美元。
Other court filings revealed that last November, Kleiner had offered Ms. Pao $964,502 to settle, an amount based on the projected costs of the case.
其他法院文件显示，去年11月，凯鹏华盈曾提出向鲍康如支付96.4502万美元作为和解费，这个数额是根据案件的预计成本拟定的。
By making that offer, Kleiner can now ask for witness fees, which unlike deposition fees are not normally recoverable. Ms. Pao never responded, although she might wish she had.
因为曾主动提出这种方案，凯鹏华盈现在可以要求对方偿付证人费，与证言费不同，这种费用通常不可追回。鲍康如对这一提议始终未予回应，尽管此刻她也许希望当初做了回应。