Joan Fontaine, the patrician blond actress who rose to stardom as a haunted second wife in the Alfred Hitchcock film “Rebecca” in 1940 and won an Academy Award for her portrayal of a terrified newlywed in Hitchcock's “Suspicion,” died at her home in Carmel, Calif., on Sunday. She was 96.
琼·芳登(Joan Fontaine)本周日于加利福尼亚州卡梅尔家中去世，享年96岁。这位贵族金发女星因在阿尔弗雷德·希区柯克(Alfred Hitchcock)1940年的《蝴蝶梦》(Rebecca)中饰演一位受鬼魂困扰的续弦妻子而一举成名，又因在希区柯克的《深闺疑云》(Suspicion)中饰演一位备受惊吓的新婚女子而获得奥斯卡奖。
Her death was confirmed by her assistant, Susan Pfeiffer.
助理苏珊·费弗(Susan Pfeiffer)确认了她的死讯。
Fontaine was only 24 when she took home her Oscar in 1942, the youngest best-actress winner at the time, but her victory was equally notable because her older sister, Olivia de Havilland, was also a nominee that year. The sisters were estranged for most of their adult lives, a situation Fontaine once attributed to her having married and won an Oscar before de Havilland did.
芳登1942年荣获奥斯卡奖时年仅24岁，是当时最年轻的奥斯卡最佳女演员得主。同样引人瞩目的是，她的姐姐奥莉薇·德·哈维兰(Olivia de Havilland)也获得了当年的最佳女演员提名。姊妹俩成年后大部分时间里相当疏远，芳登认为这是因为她抢在德·哈维兰之前结婚并获得奥斯卡奖。
Until the Hitchcock films, Fontaine's movie career had not looked promising.
出演希区柯克电影之前，芳登的电影事业似乎没有什么前途。
In 1939, she appeared in two critically acclaimed pictures. She was a minor player in “Gunga Din,” with Cary Grant and Douglas Fairbanks Jr., but made an impression in the all-female ensemble cast of “The Women.” Those roles were followed by her career-making performance in “Rebecca,” which Frank S. Nugent praised in The New York Times as the film's “real surprise” and “greatest delight.”
1939年，她在两部受到评论界好评的影片中亮相，在加里·格兰特(Cary Grant)与小道格拉斯·范朋克(Douglas Fairbanks Jr)联袂主演的《古庙战茄声》(Gunga Din)中饰演一个小角色，在全女星出演的《女人》(The Women)中的表现更是令人印象深刻。之后芳登迎来了为她奠定事业根基的《蝴蝶梦》，弗兰克·S·纽金特(Frank S. Nugent)在《纽约时报》上盛赞她是该片“真正的惊喜”和“最大的欢乐”。
Joan de Beauvoir de Havilland was born to British parents on Oct. 22, 1917, in Tokyo, where her father, Walter, a cousin of the aviation pioneer Sir Geoffrey de Havilland, was working as a patent lawyer. In 1919, her mother, the former Lillian Ruse, moved with her two daughters to Saratoga, Calif., near San Francisco. The de Havillands divorced, and Lillian married George M. Fontaine, a department store executive, whose surname Joan later took as her stage name.
琼·芳登原名琼·德·比沃尔·德·哈维兰(Joan de Beauvoir de Havilland)，1917年10月22日出生在东京，父母是英国人。她的父亲沃尔特当时在东京担任专利律师，他是航空先驱杰弗里·德·哈维兰爵士(Sir Geoffrey de Havilland)的表亲。1919年，她的母亲莉莉安·鲁斯(Lillian Ruse)带着两个女儿搬到了加利福尼亚州萨拉托加市，离旧金山不远。德·哈维兰夫妇离婚后，莉莉安嫁给了乔治·M·芳登(George M. Fontaine)，他是一家百货公司的主管，后来琼在艺名中采用了继父的姓氏。
Fontaine, who also briefly used the name Joan Burfield (inspired by a Los Angeles street sign), moved back to Japan at 15 to live with her father and to attend the American School there. Returning in 1934, she soon moved to Los Angeles to pursue a film career.
芳登还短暂地使用过琼·柏菲尔德(Joan Burfield)这个名字（取自洛杉矶的一个路标）。15岁那年，她搬回日本，与生父一同生活，并进入当地美国学校就读。1934年她回到美国，很快移居洛杉矶开始演员生涯。
Fontaine is survived by her sister, de Havilland; a daughter, Deborah Dozier Potter of Santa Fe, N.M.; and a grandson.
芳登的姐姐德·哈维兰仍然在世，她在世的亲人还包括现居新墨西哥圣塔菲的女儿黛博拉·多基尔·波特(Deborah Dozier Potter)，以及一个外孙。
She continued acting well into her 70s. She appeared in television movies, including “The Users” (1978) and “Crossings” (1986), based on a Danielle Steel novel. A series of appearances on the soap opera “Ryan's Hope” in 1980 led to a Daytime Emmy nomination. Her final screen role was as a supportive royal grandmother in “Good King Wenceslas” (1994) on the Family Channel. She also did theater across the United States and abroad, but never returned to film.
芳登直到70多岁还在表演。她曾出演过若干电视电影，包括1978年的《使用者》(The Users)和1986年根据丹尼埃尔·斯蒂尔(Danielle Steel)的小说改编的《烽火情缘》(Crossings)。1980年，她曾在肥皂剧《瑞恩的希望》(Ryan’s Hope)中亮相过数次，并因此获得日间时段艾美奖(Daytime Emmy)提名。她最后一次在电视剧中饰演角色是在1994年家庭频道(Family Channel)的《好国王》(Good King Wenceslas)中饰演一位热心助人的皇室祖母。她还曾在美国与海外参演过舞台剧，但再也没有出演过电影。
“Looking back on Hollywood, looking at it even today,” Fontaine wrote in “No Bed of Roses” (Morrow, 1978), her autobiography, “I realize that one outstanding quality it possesses is not the lavishness, the perpetual sunshine, the golden opportunities, but fear.” Just as “careers often begin by chance there,” she observed, “they can evaporate just as quickly.”
“回忆起好莱坞，甚至在如今去观察它，”芳登在自传《没有玫瑰花床》（No Bed of Roses，Morrow出版公司, 1978）中写道，“我意识到它最突出的特质并非挥霍奢华，终年阳光明媚，充满黄金般的机会，而是恐惧”。在这里，“事业经常以偶然的机会为开端，”她指出，“但它们同样很快就会蒸发掉。”