Pack a portable charger and your patience. Thanksgiving is high season for travel across the country. For fliers, the holidays often present lengthy airport security lines, fast-food temptations and mass scrambles for open electrical outlets. The survival guide below details how to successfully meet those challenges at domestic terminals at seven airports across the country, especially when challenged by a cancellation, delay or layover.
带好移动电源和你的耐心。年底是美国各地旅行的高峰期。对旅行者来说，假期意味着在机场排长队等安检，各种快餐诱惑，一群人争夺公用插座。下面的生存指南详细介绍如何在美国七个机场的国内航站楼成功应对这些问题，尤其是在遇到航班取消、延误或转机的时候。
Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD)
芝加哥奥黑尔国际机场(Chicago O’Hare International Airport，ORD)
Layout: O’Hare has three largely domestic terminals: Terminal 1, dominated by United; Terminal 3, a hub for American; and Terminal 2 for nearly all others. Once travelers are through security, they can freely walk among the adjacent terminals, which can be a hike. To take the intra-terminal train, however, requires leaving security. It also connects to the remote international Terminal 5.
航站楼布局：奥黑尔国际机场有三个大型国内航站楼：T1主要是美联航(United)在使用；T3是美国航空公司(American)的枢纽；其他航空公司的航班基本都在T2。旅客通过安检后，就能在毗邻的几个航站楼之间自由行走，就把它当作徒步游览吧。不过，要搭乘航站楼之间的火车的话，需要离开安检点。火车还能到达离得比较远的T5。
Security lowdown: The busiest security lines seem to be in the center of Terminals 1 and 3 (Terminal 2 has just one checkpoint). In 1 and 3, check security lanes on the outer edges. The Terminal 3 security lane past American Airlines international check-ins is often less crowded, for example.
安检：队伍最长的安检点似乎是在T1和T3之间（T2只有一个安检点）。在T1和T3，请选择外侧的安检点。比如，在T3，经过美国航空国际值机柜台之后的那个安检队伍通常不太长。
Best dining: The Chicago-based celebrity chef Rick Bayless runs two sandwich-focused Tortas Frontera outlets, one in Terminal 1 and another in 3. Dishes like Cochinita pibil sandwiches and guacamole and chips come in bulky but easy-to-eat-from cardboard boxes. Healthy snacks such as Kind bars, Greek yogurt, sushi rolls and gluten-free boxed salads are available from Cibo Express Gourmet Market, which operates in Terminals 2 and 3. Less healthy but perhaps more popular, Garrett Popcorn Shops, also in 2 and 3, specialize in the Garrett Mix, a blend of cheese and caramel popcorn. Download the free B4 You Board iPhone app to order a meal from one of five participating restaurants throughout the terminals to have a meal delivered to your gate.
餐食：芝加哥明星大厨里克·贝利斯(Rick Bayless)分别在T1和T3开了两个以三明治为主的Tortas Frontera快餐店。那里供应的墨西哥烤猪肉(Cochinita pibil)三明治、墨西哥鳄梨色拉和薯条等食物都是用很大但是方便食用的纸盒装的。在T2和T3的Cibo快捷美食店(Cibo Express Gourmet Market)能买到一些健康的小吃，比如健得坚果棒(Kind)、希腊式酸奶、寿司和无麸质盒装沙拉。不太健康但可能更受欢迎的Garrett爆米花店(Garrett Popcorn Shops)同样位于T2和T3。它专卖包含奶酪爆米花和焦糖爆米花两种爆米花的Garrett混合爆米花。在iPhone手机上下载免费的B4 You Board应用程序，可以在这几个航站楼里的五家合作餐馆里订餐，送到你的登机口。
Connectivity: The airport offers 30 minutes of free Wi-Fi, and higher speed access for a fee. Each terminal offers several Power Stations with four to eight stools.
网络：机场提供30分钟免费WiFi，付费可以上高速网。每个航站楼都设有几个充电站，每个充电站有4至8个凳子。
Other amenities: If you have children in tow, let them play at the Kids on the Fly play zone in 2. A mother’s room in 3 offers privacy for breastfeeding mothers. Get your om on in the Yoga Room, which offers free loaner mats and cleansing wipes, also in 3 (access is free). There are day spas in Terminals 1 and 3. Haven’t had your flu shot? Get one ($30) during your layover at clinics in Terminals 1, 2 and 3.
其他设施：如果你带着孩子，你可以让他们在T2的Kids on the Fly游乐区玩耍。T3设有母婴室，给需要哺乳的妈妈提供私密空间。你可以在T3的Yoga Room瑜伽室（免费使用）活动一下，那里免费租借垫子和清洁巾。T1和T3还有日间水疗。你还没打流感疫苗？那么，在等候转机时，你可以在T1、T2和T3的诊所打一针（30美元）。
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL)
亚特兰大哈茨菲尔德-杰克逊国际机场(Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport，ATL)
Layout: The nation’s busiest airport, Hartsfield is made up of domestic and international terminals that bookend seven perpendicular concourses. The underground Automated People Mover bisects the concourses, linking them to one another and the terminals. “For as busy as Atlanta is, it’s rather convenient,” said Seth Kaplan, managing partner of Airline Weekly.
航站楼布局：哈茨菲尔德是美国最繁忙的机场，包括国内和国际航站楼，两个航站楼位于七个垂直的机场大厅的两侧。地下的自动旅客运输系统(Automated People Mover)穿过七个大厅，把它们以及两个航站楼连接起来。《Airline Weekly》的执行合伙人塞思·卡普兰(Seth Kaplan)说：“对亚特兰大这么繁忙的机场来说，它非常方便。”
Security lowdown: There are three checkpoints in the domestic terminal, Main, North and South. The airport lists checkpoint wait times on its website. Alternatively, fliers can fill out an online Trak-a-Line form, providing an email address to which security updates will be sent.
安检：国内航站楼有三个安检点：主安检点、北安检点和南安检点。该机场在自己的网站上公布每个安检点的等候时间。旅客也可以在网上填写Trak-a-Line表格，同时提供一个邮箱地址，接收安检的最新情况。
Best dining: Among many local choices, Atlanta’s landmark Paschal’s operates a satellite restaurant in Concourse B, serving Southern classics like fried chicken and catfish. Pick up pizza and hamburgers from Varasano’s Pizzeria in Concourse A and Grindhouse Killer Burgers in Concourse D. For sit-down meals, try One Flew South in Concourse E, which conjures rural Georgia with a photo mural of a forest. The menu offers sushi and upscale Southern fare such as pork belly sliders and pulled duck sandwiches, many labeled gluten-free and available to go.
餐食：在诸多当地餐馆中，亚特兰大的标志性餐馆Paschal’s在B厅开了一个分店，供应南方的经典美食，比如炸鸡和炸鲶鱼。你可以在A厅的Varasano’s Pizzeria餐厅和D厅的Grindhouse Killer Burgers餐厅点披萨和汉堡。如果想坐下来慢慢享用一餐饭，可以尝试E厅的One Flew South餐厅，餐厅墙上的森林照片让人想起了佐治亚州的乡野风貌。这家餐厅供应寿司和美国南方的高档食物，比如滑炒五花肉和鸭肉三明治，很多菜都标明：无麸质，可带走。
Connectivity: The airport offers free Wi-Fi.
网络：机场提供免费WiFi。
Other amenities: Work, sleep or watch TV in privacy at Minute Suites in Concourse B, offering mini-offices with daybeds, desks and showers ($38 an hour; one-hour minimum).
其他设施：B厅的Minute Suites提供私人迷你办公室，里面有长沙发、书桌和淋浴，你可以在那里工作、睡觉或看电视（1小时38美元；1小时起）。
Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW)
达拉斯—沃思堡国际机场(Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport，DFW)
Layout: An elevated intra-airport train, Skylink, makes constant loops connecting the aiport’s five terminals, A through E. American Airlines, which uses DFW as a hub, operates from Terminals A, C and D, and its affiliate American Eagle uses B and D. Other domestic carriers including Delta, JetBlue and United use Terminal E.
航站楼布局：机场内的高架火车Skylink在机场的A至E航站楼之间不断循环行驶。达拉斯—沃思堡国际机场是美国航空公司的枢纽，A、C、D这三个航站楼都有它的航班，而它下属的“美国鹰”航空公司(American Eagle)使用B和D航站楼。其他国内航空公司使用E航站楼，包括达美航空(Delta)、捷蓝航空(JetBlue)和美国联合航空公司。
Security lowdown: Fifteen security checkpoints are strung along gates that are generally arranged end to end. When one backs up, try the next one down; TSA staff members often direct travelers to uncongested checkpoints next door.
安检：15个安检点沿着登机口一字排开。如果一个排满，可以试试下一个，工作人员经常会引导旅客到下一个人不太多的安检点。
Best dining: Terminal A hosts a branch of Salt Lick Bar-B-Que, famous in the Austin area. Cousin’s Bar-B-Q from Fort Worth is in B and D. From the many Mexican selections, Urban Taco offers a variety of tacos on corn or flour tortillas or a lettuce wrap, plus rice bowls and salads. Sky Canyon from the celebrated local chef Stephan Pyles does Texas cuisine including Freeto-Chile Pie, barbecued brisket in sandwiches or tacos, and some international options including a ceviche bar. If you’re a fan of Slurpees, the first post-security 7-Eleven convenience store opened this month in Terminal A.
餐食：奥斯汀地区著名的Salt Lick Bar-B-Que餐馆在A航站楼开了一家分店。沃思堡的Cousin’s Bar-B-Q餐馆在B和D航站楼开有分店。Urban Taco供应多种墨西哥食物，比如煎玉米卷、玉米粉圆饼和生菜卷，还有米饭和沙拉。当地著名大厨斯特凡·派尔斯(Stephan Pyles)开设的Sky Canyon餐馆供应得克萨斯州美食，比如Freeto-Chile派、烤胸肉三明治或煎玉米卷，也供应一些国际美食，比如酸橘汁腌鱼条。本月，A航站楼将首次在安检后的区域引进7-Eleven便利店，喜欢思乐冰(Slurpees)的旅客有福了。
Connectivity: Wi-Fi is free throughout the airport. Free travel lounges, at B28, C8, C27 and E8 offer power outlets at each seat. Workstations (also free) with power outlets and USB connections are in Terminals A, C, D and E.
网络：整个机场都提供免费WiFi。B28、C8、C27和E8的免费休息室在每个座位下安装了电源插座。A、C、D和E航站楼提供带有电源插座和USB接口的工作站（免费）。
Other amenities: If you need a nap, private office or shower, Minute Suites in Terminal D offers mini-offices with daybeds and private bathrooms (fees range from $25 for a 30-minute shower to $150 for an eight-hour stay). Strike a pose in the Yoga Studio, equipped with mats, near gate D40 (access is free). Children’s play areas known as Aquafina Junior Flyer’s Club are located in Terminals A, B and C. XpresSpa offers spa services in Terminals A, B, D and E. Terminals A and B have nursing rooms.
其他设施：D航站楼的Minute Suites提供带长沙发和私人浴室的迷你办公室，你可以在这里小睡一会儿，办公或洗个淋浴（30分钟淋浴收费25美元；8小时150美元）。D40口附近的瑜伽室(Yoga Studio)里设有垫子，你可以在那里做瑜伽（免费）。A、B和C航站楼都有Aquafina Junior Flyer’s Club儿童游乐场。A、B、D和E航站楼的XpresSpa提供水疗服务。A和B航站楼设有哺乳室。
Denver International Airport (DEN)
丹佛国际机场(Denver International Airport，DEN)
Layout: From the main Jeppesen Terminal, noted for its multipeaked roof, an underground train bisects three terminals, A, B and C Gates, making it easy to travel among them. United dominates B Gates; Southwest and Delta park at C Gates. American, Alaska, Frontier, JetBlue and others are at A Gates. A pedestrian bridge links the main terminal and A Gates.
航站楼布局：一条地下火车从杰普森主航站楼（Jeppesen Terminal，它的多尖顶屋顶很显眼）出发，穿过三个航站楼：A厅、B厅和C厅，在相互之间通行很方便。B厅主要是美国联合航空公司的班机；西南航空公司(Southwest)和达美航空在C厅。美国航空公司、阿拉斯加航空公司(Alaska)、边疆航空公司(Frontier)和捷蓝航空公司等航空公司都在A厅。一条人行天桥连接主航站楼和A厅。
Security lowdown: All fliers undergo security screening in the main terminal at one of three checkpoints. Check the airport’s website for estimated TSA wait times.
安检：所有旅客都必须在主航站楼三个安检点的其中一个接受安检。你可以在该机场的网站查看预估的等待时间。
Best dining: In addition to fast-food chains, DIA, as the airport is popularly called, salts its dining selections with local outposts. At C Gates, Root Down, a branch of the Denver restaurant, offers farm-to-table fare, including raw items and sandwiches packed for the plane. At B Gates, Elway’s steakhouse is popular for its burger as well as Colorado-raised steaks, and New Belgium Hub serves microbrews from the Fort Collins brewer. Modmarket at B and C gates caters to vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free diets.
餐食：除了快餐连锁店，丹佛国际机场还引入了当地餐饮的分店，以丰富这里的饮食选择。在C厅，丹佛餐馆(Denver)的分店Root Down供应从农场到餐桌(farm-to-table)的美食，包括可以打包上飞机的生食和三明治。在B厅，Elway’s牛排馆的汉堡以及用卡罗拉多养的牛做成的牛排很受欢迎，New Belgium Hub提供来自Fort Collins酿酒厂的微酿啤酒。B厅和C厅的Modmarket供应素食和无麸质食物。
Connectivity: The airport offers free Wi-Fi and is installing 4,000 seats throughout the gate areas with universal power outlets. Five new C gates offer power at each seat, or 894 outlets. The Sky Lounge at the Westin Hotel adjacent to the airport offers outlets at each table.
网络：该机场提供免费WiFi，正在各个航站楼安装4000个座位，每个座位下都安装有通用电源插座。C厅新建的5个登机口在每个座位下安装电源，共安装了894个插座。机场旁边的威斯汀酒店(Westin Hotel)的天空休息室(Sky Lounge)在每个桌子下安装了插座。
Other amenities: DIA is proud of its public art collection, which includes “Open Windows,” an interactive light tower triggered by a motion-detection camera (near gate B51). The west end of the C Gates is the best place to catch the sun setting over the Rockies. The new Westin Denver International Airport Hotel, just beyond the main terminal, provides harbor for waylaid travelers and includes an indoor pool and hot tub.
其他设施：丹佛国际机场因其公共艺术收藏而自豪，包括“开放的窗户”(Open Windows)——一个通过移动探测摄像头驱动的互动灯塔（靠近B51口）。C厅的西端是观看落基山日落的最佳地点。新开的威斯汀丹佛国际机场酒店(Westin Denver International Airport)就在主航站楼旁边，为旅客提供了一个港湾，里面有室内泳池和热水浴缸。
John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK)
肯尼迪国际机场(John F. Kennedy International Airport，JFK)
Layout: New York’s Kennedy operates six remote terminals, numbered 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8, strung together by an intra-airport Airtrain outside of security checkpoints. Transferring among them requires connecting fliers to pass through security again at their new terminal. Virgin America and Virgin Atlantic are in terminal 4; JetBlue and Hawaiian are in 5; Alaska, American Airlines and American Eagle are in 8; and Delta operates in terminals 2 and 4..
航站楼布局：纽约肯尼迪机场的6个航站楼相互离得很远，分别是T1、T2、T4、T5、T7和T8，通过安检点外面的机场内部Airtrain列车连接。在这几个航站楼之间转机要求旅客重新安检。维珍美国航空公司(Virgin America)和维珍大西洋航空公司(Virgin Atlantic)在T4；捷蓝和夏威夷航空公司(Hawaiian)在T5；阿拉斯加航空、美国航空和“美国鹰”航空在T8；达美航空在T2和T4。
Security lowdown: The domestic terminals at JFK are among the better equipped at the airport, with a dozen or more security lanes.
安检：肯尼迪机场的国内航站楼是属于该机场装备较好的，有十多个安检点。
Best dining: Terminal 5 offers a substantial and varied lineup of dining options, from tiny La Vie offering French bistro fare to the Spanish tapas specialist Piquillo and Deep Blue Sushi, which also offers grab-and-go fare.
餐食：T5供应丰富的餐饮选择，从提供法国酒馆食物的小La Vie餐馆，到西班牙风味餐馆Piquillo和Deep Blue Sushi，后者也提供外带食物。
Terminal 2 recently got a dining upgrade to include Croque Madame, a French sandwich spot from the chef Andrew Carmellini, and BKLYN Beer Garden with tap beers and a menu by Laurent Tourondel. If you’re leaving from Terminal 2, download the free B4 You Board iPhone app to order a meal from two participating restaurants and have it delivered to your gate.
最近，T2的餐食档次也提高了，引入了Croque Madame快餐店和BKLYN啤酒花园，前者是大厨安德鲁·卡尔梅利尼(Andrew Carmellini)开设的法式三明治快餐店，后者提供桶装啤酒，菜单是大厨洛朗·图龙登(Laurent Tourondel)设计的。如果你是从T2出发，你可以在iPhone上下载免费的B4 You Board应用程序，从两个合作餐厅点餐，送到登机口。
There are two branches of the restaurateur Danny Meyer’s Shake Shack in Terminal 4, and one of his barbecue place Blue Smoke on the Road. The chef Marcus Samuelsson recently opened Uptown Brasserie here with an eclectic menu including fried chicken and pasta.
餐馆老板丹尼·梅耶(Danny Meyer)在T4开设了两个Shake Shack餐馆的分店以及Blue Smoke on the Road烤肉店的分店。前不久，大厨马库斯·萨穆埃尔松(Marcus Samuelsson)在这里开设了Uptown Brasserie餐馆，多样性的菜单上有烤鸡和意大利面食。
Cibo Express Gourmet Market in Terminals 2, 5 and 8 stocks healthy snacks including fruit, granola bars, yogurt and gluten-free salads.
T2、T5和T8的Cibo快捷美食店供应健康小吃，包括水果、格拉诺拉燕麦棒(granola)、酸奶和无麸质沙拉。
Connectivity: The airport offers 30 minutes of free Wi-Fi. There are charging stations at most Delta gates, and the central atrium of Terminal 5 offers many outlets.
网络：该机场提供30分钟免费WiFi。达美航空的登机口大部分提供充电站，T5的中庭安装有很多插座。
Other amenities: A freestanding suite for nursing mothers features a changing table, electrical outlet and a bench at Terminal 5 near Gate 12. Also at the terminal, or, rather, outside of it (presecurity), JetBlue operates the new T5 Farm on the departures level, a 24,000-square-foot container vegetable garden, which passengers can visit curbside. Atop the terminal, all passengers can visit the outdoor terrace on the rooftop, which includes a dog walk.
其他设施：T5的12号登机口附近为哺乳母亲准备了独立套间，里面有尿布更换台、电器插座和长凳。捷蓝航空在T5的出发大厅（安检之前）布置了新的T5农场(T5 Farm)——一个2.4万平方英尺（2229平方米）的蔬菜花园，旅客们可以近距离观看。在航站楼顶，所有的乘客都能参观屋顶的室外露台，还可以在那里遛狗。
LaGuardia Airport (LGA)
拉瓜迪亚机场(LaGuardia Airport，LGA)
Layout: Four remote terminals, A through D, handle domestic traffic at LaGuardia. Delta runs its shuttle to Chicago and Washington, D.C., from Terminal A. Delta also operates from C and D. The largest terminal, B, has four concourses: A, with United and JetBlue; B, with Southwest and Spirit; C with American, United and Virgin America; and D with American. American also operates from Terminal D.
航站楼布局：拉瓜迪亚机场处理国内航班的4个航站楼相互之间离得很远，分别是A到D航站楼。达美航空在A航站楼运营前往芝加哥和华盛顿特区的航班，它的其他航班在C和D航站楼。最大的B航站楼有四个大厅：A厅是美国联合航空和捷蓝；B厅是西南航空和精神航空(Spirit)；C厅是美国航空、美国联合航空和维珍美国航空；D厅是美国航空。美国航空也有部分航班在D航站楼。
Security lowdown: Patience. Security stations tend to be narrow, especially in the Terminal B concourses, each with its own checkpoint.
安检：要有耐心。安检站比较窄，尤其是B航站楼的大厅，每个大厅都有自己的安检点。
“It’s definitely worth springing for one-day priority access that will get you through security faster, at least on American and Delta,” said Michael Alan Connelly, editor of Fodors.com, referring to premium economy seating that often offers a special security line.
Fodors.com的编辑迈克尔·艾伦·康奈利(Michael Alan Connelly)说：“购买一天的优先待遇，能让你更快通过安检，至少能更快通过美国航空和达美航空的安检，还是挺值的。”他指的是通常提供特别安检线的豪华经济舱。
Best dining: In Terminal B’s common area, Bowery Bay Tavern trades in Philly cheesesteak and burgers, and Todd English’s Figs Restaurant does Mediterranean dishes. Post-security in the A gates, Metro Burger Bar uses Pat LaFrieda beef, and near the B gates, Six Blocks Bakery serves pastries from Balthazar Bakery in Manhattan. In the B and C concourses, Cibo Express Gourmet Markets stock healthy snacks including salads and nuts.
餐食：在B航站楼的公共区域，Bowery Bay Tavern供应费城牛肉奶酪三明治和汉堡，托德·英格利希(Todd English)的Figs Restaurant餐厅供应地中海美食。Metro Burger Bar餐厅位于A厅安检之后的区域，它的汉堡用的是Pat LaFrieda的牛肉。Six Blocks Bakery面包房在B厅的登机口附近供应曼哈顿巴尔萨泽面包店(Balthazar Bakery)的点心。在B厅和C厅，Cibo快捷美食店提供沙拉和坚果等健康小吃。
Several acclaimed chefs are attached to sit-down restaurants in Terminal C, including Cotto, which offers Italian paninis and pastas from Michael White; Victory Grill from Andrew Carmellini; and Biergarten from Brooklyn Brewery, which also offers sandwiches and small plates.
几位备受赞扬的大厨在C航站楼开了几家有服务员上菜的餐馆，比如迈克尔·怀特(Michael White)开设的Cotto餐馆，那里提供意大利帕尼尼三明治和意大利面食；安德鲁·卡尔梅利尼开设的Victory Grill餐馆；以及布鲁克林啤酒厂(Brooklyn Brewery)的啤酒花园(Biergarten)，那里也提供三明治和小菜。
At its culinary rival, Terminal D, Bisoux will box your croque monsieurs and other bistro fare to go, and Taste of Tagliare offers pizza by the slice. Custom Burgers, also from Pat LaFrieda, grills to order. The Minnow, also by Mr. Carmellini, includes a raw bar and sushi. For healthy to-go, try Cibo Express Gourmet Market.
在D航站楼，Bisoux供应可以打包带走的火腿奶酪面包等酒吧食物。Taste of Tagliare按块售卖披萨。Custom Burgers餐厅供应现做烤肉，它的牛肉也来自Pat LaFrieda。同样是卡尔梅利尼开的The Minnow供应海鲜和寿司。如果想买些健康的小吃带走，你可以试试Cibo快捷美食店。
Connectivity: The airport offers 30 minutes of free Wi-Fi throughout its terminals.
网络：该机场的各个航站楼都提供30分钟免费WiFi。
Other amenities: A freestanding suite for nursing mothers features a changing table, electrical outlet and a bench at Terminal A, Concourse A. Terminal B has been redesigned with newer upscale shops, including Tumi, Lacoste, Desigual and L’Occitane. American Express credit card holders can gain access to the Centurion Lounge for $50 a day (free for some high-level card holders); children under age 18 are free.
其他设施：A航站楼A厅为哺乳母亲准备了独立套间，里面有尿布更换台、电器插座和长凳。B航站楼重新装修后，引入了新的高档店铺，包括Tumi、Lacoste、Desigual和L’Occitane。美国运通(American Express)信用卡持有者可以以每天50美元的价格使用Centurion Lounge休息室（高级别持卡用户可以免费使用）；18岁以下儿童免费。
Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)
洛杉矶国际机场(Los Angeles International Airport, LAX)
Layout: in the midst of a multibillion-dollar renovation to update and better link all terminals, LAX has nine terminals including the new Tom Bradley International Terminal (1, 2, 6, 7 and 8 are undergoing construction). American Airlines parks at Terminal 4, Delta at 5 and United at 7 and 8. While spread out, Terminals 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are accessible by walking without having to exit and re-enter security.
航站楼布局：洛杉矶国际机场正花费数十亿美元整修所有的航站楼，让它们更好地连接起来。该机场有九个航站楼（T1、T2、T6、T7和T8号航站楼正在建设中），包括新的汤姆·布拉德利国际航站楼(Tom Bradley International Terminal)。美国航空在T4，达美在T5， 联合在T7和T8。虽然面积很大，但是T4、T5、T6、T7和T8走路即可到达，不用出门重新安检。
Security lowdown: With construction inside and out, the airport has created a new LAX Is Happening website that offers travel tips for each terminal. Additional screening checkpoints have been added to Terminals 5 and 6, relieving congestion. Still, the proximity of checkpoints to gates will determine where you enter. “If you try another terminal and walk back, it doesn’t make sense. It’s just a worse schlep,” said Brett Snyder, who blogs about the airline industry at the Cranky Flier.
安检情况：因为机场内外都正在整修，所以它开设了新的LAX Is Happening网站，提供每个航站楼的使用指南。T5和T6新增了几个安检点，以缓解拥堵。不过，你最好选择靠近登机口的安检点。在Cranky Flier上谈论航空业的布雷特·斯奈德(Brett Snyder)说：“如果你在另一个航站楼安检，再走回来，更不合适。那是一个更糟糕的决定。”
Best dining: In American’s Terminal 4, the LA Gourmet Street Truck is designed to change concepts and currently hosts a branch of Border Grill from the chefs Mary Sue Milliken and Susan Feniger, serving from a parked vehicle. Real Food Daily features plant-based foods. In Terminals 5 and 7, Loteria Grill, which is also popular around town, serves tacos, enchiladas and burritos. Terminal 5 also has Ford’s Filling Station, a branch of the gastropub by the chef Ben Ford, son of the actor Harrison Ford.
餐食：为了改变餐饮理念，美国航空所在的T4安排了洛杉矶美食街餐车(LA Gourmet Street Truck)，目前餐车由大厨玛丽·休·米利肯(Mary Sue Milliken)和苏珊·费尼杰(Susan Feniger)的Border Grill餐馆分店占据，从餐车上供应食物。Real Food Daily主要售卖以素菜为主的食物。在T5和T7，洛杉矶非常出名的洛特里亚烤肉店(Loteria Grill)供应煎玉米卷、辣椒肉馅玉米卷饼和面卷饼。T5还有Ford’s Filling Station的分店，这家美食酒吧是演员哈里森·福特(Harrison Ford)的儿子、大厨本·福特(Ben Ford)开设的。
Connectivity: LAX offers free Wi-Fi throughout its terminals. Faster access is available for $4.95 an hour or $7.95 for 24 hours.
网络：洛杉矶国际机场的各个航站楼提供免费WiFi。每小时支付4.95美元或24小时支付7.95美元，可以获得网速更快的WiFi。
Other amenities: Terminal 5 features a new a nursing room.
其他设施：T5新设了一个育婴室。