Many of my friends on Facebook are having babies. Nearly every time I log on, I see (in my news feed) many pictures of these babies, almost to the point of oversharing. Now, I love babies and feel it’s acceptable to post a photo from a holiday gathering or a first picture of a newborn. But when this happens every day from a specific acquaintance, is it a violation of the baby’s privacy? The baby did not sign up for a Facebook account, does not understand the concept of Facebook and obviously was not asked permission to have its pictures on the site.
我在Facebook上的很多朋友都刚有了小孩。几乎每次登录后，都能（在动态消息里）看到这些婴儿的很多照片，几乎到了过度分享的地步。虽然我喜欢婴儿，觉得发布一张假日聚会的照片或者新生儿的首张照片是可以接受的。但是当某个熟人每天都发布婴儿照片时，我开始想这是否侵犯了婴儿的隐私？那个婴儿并没有注册Facebook账户，也不知道Facebook是什么，照片被发到网上显然也没有征得他/她的同意。
R. D., MANALAPAN, N.J.
纽约州马纳拉潘市，R.D.
On the surface, this question is a little amusing (I like to imagine a humiliated baby sitting at a desktop computer, furiously untagging itself from last week’s piñata party). But it still raises some extremely complicated issues about the concept of personhood, and the problems grow even murkier as a child matures toward adolescence. This being the case, I’m going to stick to the specifics of the question as closely as possible.
表面上看，这个问题有点好笑（我想象着一个感到羞辱的婴儿坐在台式电脑前，愤怒地把上周皮纳塔儿童派对的标签从自己的照片下面删去）。但是它还是提出了一些关于人格概念的特别复杂的问题，而且这些问题在孩子即将进入青春期的时候会变得更让人困惑。鉴于这种情况，我会尽量只围绕这个问题的具体情况进行讨论。
A baby obviously has human rights; you can’t kill a baby or sell a baby or deprive a baby of things it needs to survive. A baby is alive, and a baby has a brain. But a baby doesn’t have a mind. It can’t comprehend the existence of itself or the existence of the world or what Facebook represents. Babies don’t get to make decisions about the integrity of their lives because they don’t have the ability to do so: how they dress, when they go to bed and whether they appear on Facebook is not an infringement on their agency, because they don’t have agency. They don’t know what agency is.
婴儿显然拥有人权。你不能谋杀或者贩卖婴儿，也不能剥夺婴儿生存所需要的东西。婴儿是活着的，他/她有大脑。但是婴儿没有思想。他/她不能理解自我和世界的存在，也不知道Facebook代表着什么。婴儿不能决定自己的人生原则，因为他们没有这种能力：他们穿什么衣服，什么时候去睡觉，要不要出现在Facebook上，这些都不是对他行为能力的侵犯，因为他们没有行为能力。他们不知道行为能力是什么。
Now, here’s where it gets complicated. I’m not saying, “If a human has no idea what’s happening, you can do whatever you want with its image.” Babies are not the only people who can exist in that situation. If your 95-year-old grandpa is in a coma, it would be unethical (and deeply weird) to post daily pictures of his emaciated body on Facebook, even though he would have no awareness of what was happening or what it meant. So what’s the difference? The difference is that — in the best case — that 95-year-old man could theoretically insist that this is not what he wants. He is no longer a fully conscious being, but forces beyond his control robbed him of that consciousness. Ethically, his personhood must still be understood through the potential of his best-possible self. There’s no best case in which a newborn can comprehend the abstraction of privacy. The world’s smartest baby still doesn’t know anything.
现在，我要说说问题的复杂之处了。我不是说，“如果一个人没有意识，你就能随意处置他/她的肖像。”婴儿不是唯一处于这种境地的人。如果你95岁的祖父陷入昏迷，那每天在Facebook上发布他憔悴身体的照片是很不道德的（也很不可思议），即使他完全不知道发生了什么或者不知道这意味着什么。所以那又有什么不同呢？不同之处在于，在最好的情况下，那个95岁的老人理论上能够坚决表示，这不是他想要的。虽然他不再是一个意识完全清醒的人，不由他控制的力量剥夺了他的意识。从伦理上讲，他的人格仍然应该按照他处于最佳状态时的可能性去理解。当然，新生儿绝无可能理解“隐私”这个抽象概念。这个世界上最聪明的新生儿也是“无知”的。
But here’s where it gets really complicated: You don’t necessarily need to intellectually understand an act in order for it to be inhumane. If a child is born into oppression, receives no education and trudges through 75 years of hard labor, he or she may die without ever considering the possibility that oppression is anything beyond the normal condition of being alive. Yet this does not mean that the oppressed person was not wronged; it merely means that person was never placed in an opportunity to contemplate a different experience. The potential to recognize this injustice was always there, even if it was never realized.
下面我要说说让这件事真正变得复杂的原因：你不见得能从理性上理解某件事是不够人道的。如果一个人出生在被压迫的环境中，没有受过任何教育，75年的人生都在辛苦劳作中度过，那他/她可能至死都没有想过正常的人生不应该有压迫。但是这并不意味着被压迫的人没有受到虐待。那只是说，那个人从来没有机会去思考一个不同的人生体验。他意识到这种不公平的可能性永远都存在，即使最终也没有实现。
In the same way, it could be argued that an infant will eventually decide that being broadcast on Facebook in a diaper was a violation of privacy and that the original posting of the photo took advantage of the subject’s inability to think and communicate. But this brings us back to the difference between having a brain and having a mind. The violation of personal privacy doesn’t start until an individual has the ability to understand what the violation means. Until that moment happens, other people — in this case, the individual’s parents — get to make those decisions (and are ethically positioned to do so).
同样地，我们或许可以说，婴儿将最终认定穿着纸尿裤的照片被放在Facebook上传播是对自己隐私的侵犯，最初发布照片的行为利用了主体不能思考和交流的弱势。但是这把我们带回到了“有大脑”和“有思想”的区别上。只有在一个人能够理解“侵犯”的意思之后，对个人隐私的侵犯才开始发生。在那之前，就要由其他人——这里说的“其他人”就是这个孩子的父母——做那些决定（从伦理上讲父母也具有这样做的地位）。