WASHINGTON — President Obama has canceled a planned summit meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, officials said Wednesday, a response to frustration at the Russian government for refusing to send Edward J. Snowden, the fugitive intelligence analyst, to the United States to face charges of leaking national security secrets.
华盛顿——本周三，美国官员表示，奥巴马总统已经取消了原计划与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)举行的首脑峰会，这是美国对俄罗斯政府大失所望之下做出的反应，原因是后者拒绝把逃亡的情报分析员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)遣返回美国面对泄露国家安全机密的指控。
The move is also a reflection of growing tensions between the two countries on a series of other issues, including Mr. Putin’s continuing support of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
此举还反映了两国在其他一系列议题上日渐趋紧的关系，其中包括普京对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的持续支持。
In a statement, the White House said the president had decided to postpone the summit meeting between the two leaders after concluding that there had not been enough progress made on the “bilateral agenda” to make a meeting worthwhile.
白宫在一份声明中说，总统已经决定推迟两位领导人之间的首脑会晤，因为总统认为，两国在“双边议程”上的进展还不值得让二人举行一次会晤。
“Given our lack of progress on issues such as missile defense and arms control, trade and commercial relations, global security issues, and human rights and civil society in the last twelve months, we have informed the Russian government that we believe it would be more constructive to postpone the summit until we have more results from our shared agenda,” Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. Mr. Carney said Russia’s “disappointing decision” to grant temporary asylum to Mr. Snowden was “also a factor” in Mr. Obama’s decision.
白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)在一份声明中说，“过去12个月里，两国在导弹防御和军备控制、商贸关系、全球安全议题、人权和公民社会等问题上缺乏进展，有鉴于此，我们已经向俄罗斯政府表明，我们认为，把会晤推迟到双方在共同议程上获得更多成果的时候，会更具建设性。”卡尼说，俄罗斯给斯诺登提供了临时庇护，这个“令人失望的决定”也是奥巴马取消会晤的“一个因素”。
The Kremlin expressed disappointment, especially with the president’s linking of the decision to the case of Mr. Snowden. A senior aide to Mr. Putin, Yuri V. Ushakov, said that Mr. Obama was still welcome to visit, but blamed the United States for not wanting to build a stronger partnership to manage bilateral and international issues.
俄方对此表示失望，尤其对奥巴马总统把取消会晤的决定和斯诺登一案联系起来表示失望。普京的高级助理尤里·乌沙科夫(Yuri V. Ushakov)说，俄方依然欢迎奥巴马到访，不过，他指责美国无意建立更牢固的双边关系来处理双边和国际议题。
“This very problem underlines the fact that the United States is still not ready to build relations on an equal basis,” Mr. Ushakov told reporters at the Kremlin, according to the Interfax news agency.
根据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)的消息，乌沙科夫在克林姆林宫对记者说，“这个问题本身就突显了一个事实，那就是美国依然没有准备好在平等的基础上构筑双边关系。”
Mr. Ushakov met earlier with the American ambassador, Michael A. McFaul, who delivered the formal notification that Mr. Obama would not meet separately with Mr. Putin in Moscow.
本月早些时候，乌沙科夫会见了美国大使迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)，后者向前者正式转达了奥巴马将不会与普京在莫斯科单独会面的消息。
The daylong meeting between the two leaders had been anticipated for months. It was to have taken place in Moscow in September around the time that Mr. Obama travels to St. Petersburg, Russia, for a meeting of the Group of 20 economic summit meeting. Officials said Mr. Obama will still travel to Russia for the economic discussions with other world leaders.
数月以来，人们一直在期待两位领导人之间这次为期一日的会晤。会晤原定于今年9月在莫斯科举行，时间大概是在奥巴马前往俄罗斯圣彼得堡参加20国集团(Group of 20)经济峰会之时。官员们说，奥巴马会如期前往莫斯科，与全球其他领导人商讨经济议题。
But Washington had signaled for weeks that the White House was growing annoyed by Mr. Putin’s intransigence, especially on the fate of Mr. Snowden, who had been holed up for a month in a Moscow airport. Russia’s decision to extend temporary asylum to Mr. Snowden last week added to the frustration, officials said.
不过，在过去数周里，美方一直暗示，白宫已经被普京拒不妥协的态度，尤其是被他在斯诺登的命运上拒不退让的态度搞得越来越恼火，后者在莫斯科机场躲藏了一个月。官员们说，上周，俄罗斯延长了对斯诺登的临时庇护，该决定加重了美国的失望情绪。
In a late-night interview with Jay Leno on the “Tonight Show” on Tuesday, Mr. Obama expressed that frustration, saying that the decision on Mr. Snowden was “reflective of some underlying challenges that we’ve had with Russia lately.”
周二，奥巴马现身深夜节目《今夜秀》(Tonight Show)，并在接受杰伊·莱诺(Jay Leno)采访时表达了这种失望情绪，称有关斯诺登的决定“反映了最近我们与俄罗斯之间的一些潜在问题”。
“There have been times where they slip back into cold-war thinking and a cold war mentality,” Mr. Obama added. “And what I consistently say to them, and what I say to President Putin, is that’s the past and we’ve got to think about the future, and there’s no reason why we shouldn’t be able to cooperate more effectively than we do.”
“他们有时会重拾冷战思维及冷战心态，”奥巴马补充说。“我一直在对他们说，对普京总统说，一切都过去了，我们必须思考未来。我们没理由无法开展比现在更有效的合作。”
Mr. Obama’s decision to forgo the summit meeting with Mr. Putin, which was first reported by The Associated Press, is a blow to Mr. Putin that will deprive him of a high-profile moment on the worldwide stage. It also threatens to add to the already chilly relationship between the two countries.
美联社(The Associated Press)首先报道了奥巴马放弃与普京会晤的决定，这个决定对于普京是一个打击，使他失去了一个在世界舞台备受瞩目的时刻。这还有可能进一步破坏美俄两国已经非常冷淡的关系。
Several lawmakers in the United States had urged Mr. Obama to cancel the meeting, arguing that there should be consequences for the Russian government’s refusal to cooperate on returning Mr. Snowden to face charges.
美国的几名议员曾敦促奥巴马取消会晤，称俄罗斯政府应该为拒绝将斯诺登遣返回国面临指控的不合作行为承担后果。
In a statement Wednesday, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, praised the cancellation.
周三，纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)在一份声明中称赞了奥巴马取消会晤的决定。
“The president clearly made the right decision,” Mr. Schumer said. “President Putin is acting like a schoolyard bully and doesn’t deserve the respect a bilateral summit would have accorded him.”
“很明显，总统做了一个正确的选择，”舒默说，“普京总统现在的表现就像是一个校园恶霸，不值得我们通过双边峰会表达敬意。”
Mr. Obama’s decision to skip the face-to-face meeting with Mr. Putin is the first time that any American president has canceled a publicly announced presidential visit in Russia since the end of the cold war.
奥巴马放弃与普京的面对面会晤，这是自冷战结束以来，美国总统首次取消已经公布的总统访俄之行。
As the Kosovo war was about to start, Russia’s prime minister, Yevgeny Primakov, did order his plane to turn around en route to the United States in protest. And Mr. Putin canceled his attendance at last year’s economic summit meeting at Camp David.
在科索沃战争即将开始时，俄罗斯总理叶夫根尼·普里马科夫(Yevgeny Primakov)确曾在飞往美国的途中命令飞机调转方向，以示抗议。去年，普京也取消了现身戴维营(Camp David)经济峰会的计划。
Mr. Obama skipped last year’s Asia-Pacific economic summit meeting in Vladivostok, Russia. But Mr. Obama had never actually committed to attending because it was in September of an election year.
去年，奥巴马没有参加在符拉迪沃斯托克举行的亚太经济峰会。但奥巴马实际上从未承诺参加该活动，因为会议在9月份举办，而去年是选举年。
Officials said Mr. Obama would instead add a two-day stop in Stockholm before the Group of 20 meeting. Mr. Carney said Sweden was a “close friend and partner to the United States” that plays a crucial role on the international stage.
官员们称，参加G20峰会前，奥巴马会转而在斯德哥尔摩停留两天。卡尼称，瑞典是“美国的亲密朋友及合作伙伴”，在国际舞台上扮演着至关重要的角色。