In the hours since Michael T. Flynn resigned as national security adviser late Monday, two narratives have emerged.
周一晚间迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)辞去国家安全顾问一职后的几个小时里，坊间出现了两种叙事。
One, embraced by many in the traditional legacy media, centered on what Mr. Flynn had done that led to his resignation: discussing sanctions against Russia in a conversation with the Russian ambassador, and then misleading Vice President Mike Pence about it.
一种被许多具有传统遗风的媒体所采用，主要集中在弗林所做的那些导致他辞职的事：在与俄罗斯大使谈话时讨论对俄罗斯的制裁，然后误导副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)。
The other, which developed among the more right-leaning news media, focused on the leaks from Washington that had put pressure on Mr. Flynn to step aside, and whether these leaks were intended to damage President Trump.
另一种叙事则在偏右的新闻媒体当中比较普遍，更关注华盛顿消息泄露的问题，这些消息给弗林施加压力，促使他辞职，这些媒体还热衷讨论这些泄露是否意在给特朗普总统造成损害。
One narrative holds Mr. Flynn, and others who knew about his discussions, accountable. The other portrays Mr. Flynn more as a victim.
第一种叙事认为，弗林以及其他知道这些谈话的人应当对此负责。另一个叙事把弗林描绘得更像受害者。
The focus on leaks intensified on Wednesday, after The New York Times reported late Tuesday that Trump aides and associates had made repeated contact with senior Russian officials during the presidential campaign.
周二晚些时候，《纽约时报》报道，特朗普的助手和同事在总统竞选期间曾与俄罗斯高级官员有过多次接触，周三，对泄密的关注加剧了。
Which narrative does Mr. Trump ascribe to? On Tuesday morning, he attributed Mr. Flynn’s resignation to “illegal leaks.”
特朗普的叙事属于哪一种？周二上午，他将弗林的辞职归咎于信息的“非法泄露”。
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump again denounced the leaks in a blizzard of tweets.
星期三上午，特朗普再次以一连串暴风骤雨般的推文谴责这一泄密事件。
It is not unusual for news media to promote different story angles. And the division between left-leaning and right-leaning news organizations is certainly not new. But the rift between the mainstream media and more partisan news organizations has grown starker in the nearly four weeks since Mr. Trump took office, reflecting a widening political and ideological rift.
新闻媒体产生不同的故事角度并不罕见。左翼和右翼新闻机构之间的差异当然也不新鲜。但是，自从特朗普上任后近四个星期以来，主流媒体和更有党派倾向的新闻机构之间分歧越来越严重，这反映了政治和意识形态分歧的扩大。
The growing division means that some readers are getting their news through an ever-narrowing prism. Americans who get their information predominantly from Breitbart News, a right-wing news and opinion site, for instance, or from the conservative Fox News are getting a very different version of the news from Americans who read The Washington Post or watch CNN.
日益增加的分歧意味着一些读者是在透过一只越来越窄的棱镜获取新闻。以右翼新闻与观点网站布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)或保守的福克斯新闻(Fox News)为消息主要来源的美国人，和阅读《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)、看CNN的美国人，得到的新闻是非常不同的两个版本。
Late Monday night, as the news broke that Mr. Flynn had resigned, news organizations rushed to publish articles.
周一晚上，随着弗林辞职的消息传出，各新闻机构纷纷发表文章。
Not Breitbart.
布莱巴特新闻不在其中。
For roughly an hour after Mr. Flynn’s resignation letter began circulating, Breitbart did not change the main story on its home page, which was about immigration policy.
在弗林的辞职信开始流传约一小时后，布莱巴特新闻仍然没有更换其主页上关于移民政策的头条报道。
When Breitbart made the Flynn resignation its main story, around midnight, the account hewed closely to the facts of Mr. Flynn’s resignation and quoted heavily from his resignation letter. The site also put up a more analytical article that raised questions about the motives behind the government’s monitoring of communications between Mr. Flynn and the Russian ambassador.
当布莱巴特新闻把弗林辞职换成主页头条报道时，已经是大约午夜时分，这篇报道紧密抓住弗林辞职的事实，并大量援引他的辞职信。该网站还撰写了一篇更具分析性的文章，对政府监听弗林与俄罗斯大使之间通话的动机表示质疑。
“Democrats are clamoring for a deeper investigation of Russian ties to Trump,” the article said. “But the more serious question is whether our nation’s intelligence services were involved in what amounts to political espionage against the newly elected government.”
“民主党人正在呼吁对俄罗斯与特朗普之间的关系进行更深入的调查，”文章说。“但更严重的问题是，我们国家的情报部门是否涉嫌针对新当选政府的政治间谍活动。”
The article also raised questions about how the news media got its information, reinforcing a distrust of the press that Mr. Trump and his administration have assiduously tried to foster.
该文章还提出了关于新闻媒体如何获得信息的问题，强调了特朗普及其政府班底努力培养的对新闻界的不信任。
“The fact that the contents of Flynn’s phone conversation — highly sensitive intelligence — were leaked to the media suggests that someone with access to that information also has a political axe to grind,” the article said.
“弗林的电话交谈内容是高度敏感的情报，它被泄露给媒体的事实表明，有权限获取这些信息的人同时还有政治企图，”文章说。
The emphasis on the leaks continued into Tuesday afternoon with an article at the top of Breitbart’s site on the White House briefing and the assertion by Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, that the leaks were an overlooked part of the reporting on Mr. Flynn.
直到周二下午，布莱巴特网站还在强调信息泄露，当时该网站顶部的一篇文章是关于新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)的白宫新闻发布和陈述，认为泄密是关于弗林事件的新闻报道中一个被忽视的部分。
The narrative gained more steam on Wednesday morning, after the damaging reports Tuesday night: An article on the Breitbart home page seized on Mr. Trump’s early morning tweets attacking the coverage rather than the news about the Russian contacts.
在周二晚上的破坏性报道之后，周三上午，这种叙事渐渐形成了声势：布莱巴特网站主页上的一篇文章重点报道了特朗普当天清晨的推文攻击，而不是关于特朗普与俄罗斯联系的消息。
Fox News also advanced this leak-focused narrative on Tuesday and Wednesday.
福克斯新闻在周二和周三也转向了这种聚焦泄密问题的叙事。
During one segment on “Fox & Friends” on Tuesday, Laura Ingraham, a conservative commentator and Fox News contributor, suggested that the leaks were politically motivated. “The long knives were out for Flynn almost the moment that he was announced,” she said.
在周二的“福克斯和朋友”(Fox & Friends)节目中，保守派评论员和福克斯新闻观点人士劳拉·英格拉恩(Laura Ingraham)认为泄密是出于政治动机。“几乎在弗林被提名的那一刻，长刀就已经出鞘了，”她说。
“I think this really was the death by a thousand leaks,” Ms. Ingraham added. “The leaks that were coming out of this administration and the transition, before the administration, were at a level that I don’t remember seeing for quite some time.”
“我认为，这真的是被不断的泄密千刀万剐而死，”英格拉恩还说。“这届政府和过渡政府出现的泄密到了这样的地步，已经很久没有见到这种情况了。”
Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, a Republican, also focused on the leaks during an appearance on the channel.
威斯康星州共和党参议员罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)也在福克斯新闻中亮相，对泄密问题表示关注。
“Who tapped the phones, who was listening to it, who leaked it? I think those are legitimate questions to ask,” he said.
“谁窃听了电话，是谁在听，又是谁泄露出去的？我认为这些都是合理的问题，”他说。
“Let’s face it,” he later said, “leaks of this nature are incredibly damaging to America, to our national security, and we need to look into it.”
“让我们面对它，”他又说，“这种性质的泄密对美国、对我们的国家安全是难以置信的损害，我们需要调查。”
Tuesday night ended on a predictably outraged note, with Sean Hannity, a Trump supporter, suggesting on his show that the left was “willing to do anything to stop President Trump from draining the swamp and changing the status quo.”
周二晚以一则可预见的愤怒评论结束，来自特朗普的支持者肖恩·汉尼提(Sean Hannity)，他在自己的节目中声称，左派“愿意做任何事情，只要能阻止特朗普总统抽干沼泽，改变现状。”
“Impeachment of the president is clearly the end goal for the left,” Mr. Hannity added. “Facts, truth, it doesn’t really matter. Mike Flynn is just a small casualty of that bigger plan.”
“弹劾总统显然是左派的最终目标，”汉尼提还说。“事实、真相，这些都并不重要。迈克·弗林只是这个大局中的小小伤亡而已。”
On Wednesday, the main article on the Fox News home page highlighted the president’s condemnation of the leaks to the media.
周三，福克斯新闻网站主页上的主要文章突出了总统对于向媒体泄露信息的谴责。
Journalists at more centrist news organizations, including CNN and NPR, attributed Mr. Flynn’s resignation to the strong reporting and investigative journalism that had exposed details of Mr. Flynn’s talks with Russia.
包括CNN和NPR在内的更多中立新闻机构的记者认为，弗林的辞职是由于强大的新闻报道和调查揭露了他与俄罗斯会谈的细节。
Rather than casting aspersion on leaks about Mr. Flynn, these commentators praised their contributions to accountability journalism. Joe Scarborough, a host of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” went so far as to call the person who had leaked information “a patriot.”
这些评论者不但没有对弗林一事的消息泄露做出诽谤，还赞扬这是对问责新闻的贡献。MSNBC台《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)节目主持人乔·斯卡伯勒(Joe Scarborough)甚至把泄露信息的人称为“爱国者”。
“The only reason we’re finding out about it now is because a patriot did leak this to The Washington Post, did get this information out there, or else we wouldn’t have even known about it,” said Mr. Scarborough, a former Republican congressman from Florida.
“我们现在发现了这件事，唯一的原因就是有位爱国者确实得到了这个消息，并把它泄露了给《华盛顿邮报》，否则我们根本就不会知道这件事，”斯卡伯勒说，他是前佛罗里达州共和党议员。
The Columbia Journalism Review, a publication that chronicles and analyzes the news media, was perhaps the most pointed. An article on Tuesday — with the headline “Flynn resignation shows leaks under Trump are working. Keep ‘em coming.” — described how several recent leaks had ultimately forced the Trump administration to reverse course or make changes.
从事新闻媒体记载和分析的出版物《哥伦比亚新闻评论》(Columbia Journalism Review)的观点或许是最尖锐的。周二的一篇文章题为“弗林辞职显示特朗普治下的泄密起作用了。多多益善。”——文章描述了最近几次的泄密，最终迫使特朗普政府逆转进程或做出改变。
“Some of these leaks have halted a Trump appointment and controversial policies in their tracks,” the article said, “and it’s a lesson showing how whistle-blowers and leaks to the press are vital for democracy.”
“这些泄密当中，有一些已经半途中止了特朗普的任命和有争议的政策，”文章说，“这是一个教训，显示举报者以及向媒体泄露消息对于民主来说至关重要。”