Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana openly split with Donald Trump, his running mate, on Wednesday by endorsing Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s re-election bid, doing so a day after Trump said he was not ready to make such an endorsement.
周三，印第安纳州州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)表态支持众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)的连任竞选，公开地表达了与自己的竞选搭档唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的不同立场。此前一天，特朗普刚刚表示他还没有做好支持瑞安的准备。
That the two members of the Republican presidential ticket were taking different positions on whether to endorse the House speaker, a fellow Republican, showed the searing divisions tearing apart the party.
在是否支持同为共和党员的众议院议长的问题上，两位共和党竞选搭档选择的不同态度，显示出严重的分歧正使这个政党走向分裂。
In an interview with The Washington Post on Tuesday, Trump said he liked Ryan and was considering endorsing him for re-election, but was not ready. “I’m just not quite there yet,” Trump said. “I’m not quite there yet.”
特朗普周二接受《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post )采访时表示，他喜欢瑞安，正在考虑支持他竞选连任，但还没有做好准备。“我只是还没到那一步，”特朗普说。“还没到那一步。”
Trump’s choice of words was strikingly similar to the speaker’s language in May, when Ryan said he was “not ready” to endorse Trump for president. Some people close to Trump fault Ryan for withholding his endorsement for a few weeks before ultimately backing him.
特朗普的措辞与瑞安在今年5月的表态惊人地一致，当时这位议长表示他还“没准备好”支持特朗普竞选总统。一些与特朗普关系密切的人士曾指责瑞安拖延几周后才最终表态支持特朗普。
Pence issued his endorsement of Ryan during an afternoon interview with Fox News on Wednesday, hours after he told Trump of his longtime ties to the speaker, and Trump expressed support for the move.
周三下午，彭斯在接受福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)采访时表达了对瑞安的支持。几个小时前，他跟特朗普提到了他与瑞安长久以来的关系，特朗普对彭斯的举动表示支持。
“I talked to Donald Trump this morning about my support for Paul Ryan, our longtime friendship,” Pence said. “He strongly encouraged me to endorse Paul Ryan in next Tuesday’s primary. And I’m pleased to do it. But look, this is all part of a process of bringing a party together” after a competitive nominating fight, he added.
“今天上午，我与唐纳德·特朗普谈论了我对保罗·瑞安的支持，提到了我们长久的友谊，”彭斯说。“他十分鼓励我在下周二的初选中支持保罗·瑞安。我很乐意这么做，”不过，这都是为了在激烈的提名争夺之后“将一个政党凝聚在一起，”他接着讲道。
Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee and a Wisconsin native, is also said to be livid over Trump’s remarks about Ryan and is considering several options to show his public support for the Wisconsin congressman.
据说，出生于威斯康星的共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)也对特朗普有关瑞安的言论大为光火，正在考虑以哪种方式显示他对这位威斯康星国会议员的支持。
Priebus is debating the best way to demonstrate solidarity with Ryan, from a formal endorsement to an email publicly stating his support, said three people with knowledge of Priebus’ internal discussions. A public announcement could come as early as Wednesday.
据知情人士透露，普利巴斯正在考虑该以何种方式表达他对瑞安的声援，是选择正式的背书，还是通过邮件公开声明自己的支持。他最早可能会在下周三发布一则通告。