As his heart failed a couple of summers after leaving office, former Vice President Dick Cheney slipped into a coma and, by his later account, spent weeks dreaming that he was in a countryside villa north of Rome, padding down a stone path every morning to pick up a newspaper or coffee.
在离任后的第二个夏天，随着他心脏衰竭的发生，美国前副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)进入了昏迷状态。他后来回忆说，在昏迷的几周中，他梦见自己住在罗马北部的一个乡村别墅里，每天一早走在石板路上去买报纸或咖啡。
Yet Mr. Cheney was never one to slip into quiet retirement in Italy or, for that matter, at his Wyoming ranch. Two years after a heart transplant reinvigorated him physically, he seems reinvigorated politically, too, as he takes on President Obama, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Bill Clinton, radical Islam, Senator Rand Paul, his own party — and history.
然而，切尼绝非是能在意大利，或更实际地说，在他怀俄明州的牧场安静退休的人。一个心脏移植手术在两年后恢复了他的体力，随着他开始挑战奥巴马总统(President Obama)、希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)、比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)、激进派伊斯兰教、参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)、他所在的政党，乃至历史，他看来也恢复了政治活力。
Aggravated by what he considers the president’s weakness as extremist groups seize wide portions of Iraq, Mr. Cheney, 73, has blitzed the airwaves in recent weeks and formed a new organization to promote American national security in a perilous time. He has drawn nothing but scorn from Democrats and even some Republicans who view his remonstrations as the height of hubris from someone they blame for many of the country’s difficulties.
由于极端组织攻占了伊拉克的大部分地区，现年73岁的切尼认为总统表现软弱，他被激怒了，近几周来，他已发起了多次宣传闪电战，并成立了一个新组织，以在这个危机四伏的日子里强化美国的国家安全。民主党人对他只有鄙夷，就连某些共和党人也不看好他，他们把切尼的抱怨看作是一个被他们指责为应该对这个国家的许多困难承担责任的人高度傲慢的表现。
To many he is a punch line.
对许多人来说，他就是给笑话做结尾的一个“包袱”。
But Mr. Cheney’s ability to command attention speaks to his distinctive, polarizing place in the public arena. He is blunt, he is unapologetic and he is seemingly immune to the barbs aimed his way. He remains driven by the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and if the rest of the world has moved on, he has not. “I’m not running for anything,” he told Charlie Rose in one of his multiple interviews of late. “I get to say exactly what I think.”
但是，切尼引起人们注意的能力充分体现了他在公共舞台上的独特地位和极化作用。他直截了当，毫无歉意，似乎毫不在意别人对他的挖苦。他仍被2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击事件驱使着，如果说世上的其他人已经把事件当成历史的话，他还没有那样做。他最近多次接受采访，在其中一次，他对查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)说，“我不再参加任何竞选，我想说什么就说什么。”
Only some find it worth listening. On MSNBC and on liberal op-ed pages and websites, his re-emergence has provided endless fodder for who-is-he-to-talk commentary. Some activists even argued he should be barred from television because they view him as discredited.
只有一些人认为他的话值得听。在MSNBC电视台、以及自由派的评论栏目和网站上，他的再次出现，为“他算老几”的这类评论，提供了没完没了的话料。一些活动人士甚至认为，他应该被禁止在电视上出现，因为在他们眼中，他已信誉扫地。
“He’s like the A-Rod of politics,” said David Plouffe, the longtime Obama strategist, referring to Alex Rodriguez, the scandal-tarnished baseball star. “No one wants to hear from him, especially when he is trying to create an alternate reality to the one he is responsible for.”
“他就像政治中的A-Rod，”奥巴马的长期战略顾问戴维·普洛夫(David Plouffe)说，A-Rod是丑闻缠身的棒球明星亚历山大·罗德里奎兹(Alex Rodriguez)的简称。“没人想听到他的消息，尤其是他想给他应该负责的现实制造一个不同版本的企图。”
For a White House beleaguered on multiple fronts, the former vice president’s return is in fact a welcome opportunity to focus attention on decisions made by Mr. Cheney and President George W. Bush rather than defending Mr. Obama’s own handling of foreign policy, which most Americans disapprove of in polls.
对受到多方攻击的白宫来说，前副总统的再次出现，其实是一个把目标转移到切尼和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统作的决定上去的好机会，这样就不用再为奥巴马处理外交政策的问题辩护了，在民意调查中，大多数美国人在这个问题上对奥巴马不满。
Mr. Cheney thrust himself back into the debate with a Wall Street Journal op-ed on June 17 that was written with his daughter, Liz Cheney, assailing Mr. Obama’s foreign policy as Islamic militants carve a virtual state of their own in Syria and Iraq. “Rarely has a U.S. president been so wrong about so much at the expense of so many,” they wrote.
6月17日，切尼与女儿莉兹·切尼(Liz Cheney)联名在华尔街日报发表一篇评论文章，把自己置于辩论之中，文章抨击了奥巴马的外交政策，称其听任伊斯兰武装分子实际上在叙利亚和伊拉克建立自己的国家。他们写道，“很少有美国总统犯下这么严重的错误，让如此多的人付出代价。”
But Mr. Cheney still has a strong following in some corners of the Republican Party that are glad to have him making the case when others do not. “A good number of people have contacted me and said it’s great to see him out there,” said John McConnell, a former speechwriter for Mr. Cheney.
不过，切尼在共和党的某些角落里仍有很强的支持者，他们对他能在别人敛手裹足的情况下站出来感到高兴。曾给切尼撰写演讲稿的约翰·麦康奈尔(John McConnell)说，“不少人与我联络，他们说，看到他站出来很高兴。”
Bill Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard, said Mr. Obama’s failures made Americans more receptive to hawkish arguments. “A lot of people will say: ‘Good points. Does it have to be Dick Cheney making them? He’s got so much baggage,’ ” Mr. Kristol said. “I always find that too clever by half. I think Dick Cheney is very popular among conservative Republicans.”
《旗帜周刊》(The Weekly Standard)主编威廉·克里斯托尔(William Kristol)说，奥巴马的失误让美国人更容易接受鹰派的论点。“很多人会说，‘不错的观点。不过，这些话一定要由迪克·切尼来说吗？他对这些问题有太多的历史责任，’”克里斯托尔说。“我总是觉得这种说法有一半是自作聪明。我认为，迪克·切尼在保守派共和党人中仍很受欢迎。”
Mr. Cheney’s latest public foray, friends said, reflects a genuine dismay about the chaos rocking the Middle East. He and Liz Cheney, a former State Department official, returned from a March trip to the region expressing surprise at how much consternation they detected about what they see as America’s retreat.
朋友们说，切尼最近这次涉足公共领域，反映出他对动摇中东的混乱的真实震惊。他和曾在国务院任职的莉兹·切尼三月份去过该地区，回来后，他们对自己在当地观察到的惊恐程度表示惊讶，这种惊恐在他们看来是美国的撤退引起的。