中国巨富刘汉被指控操纵“黑社会性质组织”，在国内人口最多的一个省份作威作福十多年。据报道，该组织犯下9条命案，还强迫村民把土地交出来为其不断扩张的帝国增添资源，该帝国涉及房地产、矿业和天然气等领域。
In accounts published by the state-run news agency Xinhua, former associates of Mr. Liu, 48, and his younger brother, Liu Wei, have confessed to the murders, painting a picture of a ruthless man who stopped at nothing to acquire a fortune amounting to 40 billion renminbi, or $6.57 billion. On Thursday, prosecutors charged Liu Han and other members of his network – 36 in all – with 21 crimes, including murder and intentional injury.
在国家通讯社新华社发来的报道中，刘汉现年48岁，他过去的同伙和他的弟弟刘维已经承认犯有杀人罪，该报道把刘汉描述为一个残酷无情的人，为累积其高达400亿人民币的财富不惜一切代价。周四，检方对刘汉及其团伙其他成员（共36人）提起公诉，罪名有21条，包括杀人罪和故意伤害罪。
In November, Xinhua announced the arrest of another Sichuan billionaire, Deng Hong, a real estate executive who built a mall and hotel complex in the provincial capital, Chengdu, that is the world’s largest building. Last month, the Chinese magazine Caixin reported that He Yan, a Sichuan telecommunications executive, had been arrested. In both instances, Chinese news reports said the cases were being handled in Xianning, the city in the central province of Hubei where the charges were brought against Mr. Liu.
去年11月，新华社发布了四川另一位巨富邓鸿被捕的消息，邓鸿曾是一家房地产集团的董事长，在四川省省会成都市修建了一座集购物中心和酒店为一体的建筑，该建筑是世界上最大的。上月，中国杂志财新《新世纪周刊》报道称，四川一家电信公司董事长何燕被捕。中国新闻报道称这两起案件都在湖北省咸宁市进行审理，这里也是刘汉被提起公诉的地方。
Xinhua and other Chinese news agencies have published detailed accounts of the charges against Mr. Liu and his brother, including confessions from former associates. Tang Xianbing, a security guard for one of Mr. Liu’s companies, reportedly said he killed a villager who was leading protests against one of Mr. Liu’s projects in Sichuan.
新华社和其他中国新闻媒体已经发表了有关刘汉兄弟被提起公诉的详细报道，包括其过去同伙的坦白交待。据报道，刘汉公司的一名保安唐先兵承认，他曾打死了一位带领村民抗议的人，他们抗议刘汉在四川的一个项目。
“Nothing happened to me after the killing, and that made me bolder and more unscrupulous,” Mr. Tang said in his confession, according to Xinhua.
据新华社报道，唐先兵在供述中说，“出事以后我毫发无损，胆子一下就大起来了，为了公司我什么事都敢做了，杀人也不怕了。”
In 2009, Liu Wei, a torchbearer for the 2008 Beijing Olympics, allegedly ordered the slayings of three people at an open-air teahouse in his hometown of Guanghan, in Sichuan, Xinhua reported. Liu Wei went into hiding, it said, after suspects arrested over the killings said he was responsible. Last March, Liu Han was arrested, with Xinhua saying he helped his brother evade capture.
新华社报道称，为2008年北京奥运会担当过火炬手的刘维，被指控曾在2009年，命令人在其家乡四川广汉市的露天茶铺里将三人打死。报道称，犯罪嫌疑人被捕后交代出刘维是幕后主使，之后刘维潜逃。去年3月刘汉被捕，新华社说刘汉曾帮助弟弟逃避追捕。
The arrest had international implications, because Liu Han was then in the process of negotiating to buy an Australian mining company, Sundance Resources Limited. The deal collapsed the following month. In 2009 his flagship company, Sichuan Hanlong Group, had bought a controlling stake in another Australian mining company, Moly Mines Limited.
刘汉的被捕有国际影响，因为刘汉当时正就收购澳大利亚矿业公司桑德斯资源有限公司(Sundance Resources Limited)进行谈判。他被捕一个月后，这笔交易失败。2009年他的核心产业四川汉龙集团，曾买下了另一家澳大利亚采矿公司钼矿有限公司(Moly Mines Limited)的控股权。
Mr. Liu also headed Sichuan Jinlu Group, a company whose shares trade on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. Its shares surged more than 10 percent in Shenzhen trading on Friday, their biggest daily gain in more than a year.
刘汉也是四川金路集团股份有限公司的董事长，该公司在深圳交易所上市。其股价在深圳周五的交易日上涨了10%以上，这是一年多来该公司股票一天中增值最高的。