Slipping into a pair of blue Marc Jacobs pants in the back of a rented van in Yongzhou, China, the model Liu Wen was feeling an unusual degree of jitters. Changing clothes on the go is standard practice for models shooting on location, and she liked the look: “It’s tomboy style,” she said. “I feel it’s my style.” And under most circumstances — long travel, bad weather, unexpected wardrobe glitches — China’s first bona fide supermodel has a reputation in the industry for being gracious and professional. But as the van pulled up to her old middle school, she peered worriedly out the curtained windows at a waiting crowd: hundreds of frantic teenagers in white uniform jackets, spitting images of her recent former self. “It’s getting crazy here,” she said. The students were chanting, “Liu Wen, Liu Wen” and were armed with cellphone cameras and notepads for autographs, eager for the return of their school’s most famous alum. “I’m not that big a celebrity,” she said. “I’m just an ordinary person.”
在中国永州一个租来的厢式货车后部，模特刘雯穿上一条蓝色的马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)长裤，感到特别兴奋。模特们在拍摄现场经常要不停换衣服。她喜欢这身装束：“像个假小子，”她说，“我感觉这是我的风格。”不管是长途旅行，还是遇上坏天气和意料不到的服装问题，中国第一位真正的超级模特在大多数情况下总能保持亲切的态度和职业素养。但是当货车停到她的中学母校时，她忧虑地向窗帘外望去，看着等待的人群：几百个狂热的青少年穿着白色校服，跟不久前的她一模一样。“这太疯狂了，”她说。学生们喊着：“刘雯！刘雯！”准备好手机相机或者签名簿，热切等待该校最著名的校友归来。“我不是什么大名人，”她说，“我只是个普通人。”
At 24, Liu is not so far removed, in years, from her time at Yongzhou No.3 Middle School. She grew up in the southern province of Hunan, most famous as the birthplace of Mao Zedong and as a powerhouse of domestic pork production. Back then in Yongzhou, population 5.7 million, there were “no fashion stores, not even fashion magazines,” she said. “Our sense of the outside world came mainly from South Korean soap operas.” About the only widely recognized Western brands in town were Kentucky Fried Chicken and McDonald’s. Her modest five-story school has long open-air corridors leading to cramped classrooms lined with old-fashioned blackboards. On the walls hang portraits of Chairman Mao, Vladimir Lenin, William Shakespeare, Hu Jintao and other inspirational figures. In winter, to conserve electricity, students and teachers wear coats inside to keep warm.
对当时24岁的刘雯来说，她在永州第三中学的日子并不遥远。她在湖南省南部长大，该省是毛泽东的故乡，也以盛产猪肉著称。她说，那时候永州这个有570万人口的城市“没有时装店，甚至没有时尚杂志”，“我们对外面世界的了解主要来自韩国的肥皂剧。”城里唯一广为人知的西方品牌是肯德基和麦当劳。她的母校很普通，有五层楼，每层都有长长的开放式走廊，教室里挤满了人，黑板是老式的。墙上挂着毛主席、列宁、莎士比亚、胡锦涛和其他励志人物的照片。冬天，为了省电，学生们和老师们在室内也穿着外套保暖。
It was, in other words, hardly fated that a girl from China’s pig country would go on to become, as Liu has, the first Asian model to be the global face of Estée Lauder, the first Chinese model to walk the Victoria’s Secret runway and one of the most booked Asian runway models in the world. She has learned to wear stilettos (“I never wore high heels in my hometown”) and taught herself English. She moved to Beijing and then to New York City. Perhaps the only thing that remains the same is that she is single. “I have never had a boyfriend,” she told me. “In my school days, everyone thought I’m too tall for a Chinese girl. And now, I travel so much. Maybe in 2012.” It was her first time home in more than a year, and she was reflective about how her perspective had changed. “Twenty-four is still young in New York, but in Hunan most of my friends are married.”
换句话说，很难想象一个来自中国猪肉之乡的女孩会成为第一个为雅诗兰黛全球代言的亚洲模特，第一个登上维多利亚的秘密(Victoria’s Secret)秀台的中国模特，成为世界上最抢手的亚洲走秀模特之一。她已经学会了穿高跟鞋（“在故乡我从没穿过高跟鞋”），还自学了英语。她搬到了北京，后来又搬到纽约。也许唯一没变的是，她还是单身。“我从没交过男朋友，”她告诉我，“上学的时候，每个人都觉得作为中国女孩，我太高了。而现在我是旅行得太多了。也许是2012年。”这是她一年多来首次回乡，她在反思自己的想法有什么改变。“在纽约24岁仍算年轻，但是在湖南，我的大部分朋友都结婚了。”
For the most part, Liu takes mind-boggling change in stride. Perhaps this quality, more than anything else, defines young Chinese people today. But somehow contemplating it all, compressed into a single instant, felt overwhelming. Yet when she stepped into the shrieking crowd, shaking hands and answering questions, the anxiety wore off. “I feel like here is home,” she said. “It’s been a long time, but it still feels very warm.”
在大多数时刻，刘雯能从容应对各种惊人的变化。也许这就是当今中国年轻人最大的特点。但是不知为何，在这一刻，看着眼前的情景，她有点不知所措。但是在她走进尖叫的人群，跟他们握手，回答问题的时候，这种焦虑慢慢消失了。“我感觉这里就是家，”她说，“已经过了很长时间，但是仍然感觉很温暖。”
In a little room upstairs, Liu had lunch with several of her old teachers, surrounded by laminated posters of beach scenes and palm trees — exotic places few of her peers have seen. With the heating off, everyone huddled around a circular table in sweaters and dark jackets, save for the principal, Mr. Liu, who wore a gray suit with a purple tie for the occasion. On the table was a plastic dish full of sunflower seeds. The teachers uncorked two bottles of red wine, a treat, and offered rounds of toasts, standing up and clinking glasses in the style of a Chinese banquet. Liu, who does not drink alcohol, raised her cup of green tea and offered a personal motto: “Be a good student and enjoy your life. You never know the future.”
在楼上的一个小房间里，刘雯和几个从前的老师一起吃午饭，周围有很多沙滩和棕榈树张贴画，她以前的同学几乎没有人见过这种异国风景。暖风没有开，所有人都挤在一个圆桌子周围，穿着毛衣和深色外套，只有刘校长为了这个重要场合，穿着灰色西服，打着紫色领带。桌上有个塑料盘子，里面装满了葵花籽。老师们打开两瓶红酒——这是用来款待客人的，发表了几轮祝酒词，大家站起来碰杯，是典型的中国宴会的风格。刘雯不喝酒，她举起绿茶杯子，说出了她个人的格言：“好好学习，享受人生。你永远不知道未来什么样。”
Certainly Liu’s success rides largely on her looks —
当然，刘雯的成功主要得益于她的长相——
“I often use the word ‘sharp’ to describe her,” a casting director for Victoria’s Secret, John Pfeiffer, told me. “She’s not a soft, delicate beauty. But she has that very indefinable ‘It’ factor, full of presence.” That she defies the stereotype of the spoiled, immature mannequin has also helped her. (“After our first meeting, she sent a handwritten thank you card; it was charming,” Aerin Lauder remembers.)
“我经常用‘锋利’这个词来形容她，”维多利亚的秘密的模特选拔总监约翰·法伊弗(John Pfeiffer)跟我说，“她不是那种温柔、精致的美女。但是她具有那种非常难以形容的‘物质女孩’风格，很有风度。”她不想做那种被宠爱的、不成熟的时装模特，这一点也帮了她（“在我们初次会面后，她寄给我一个手写的感谢卡，很惹人喜爱，”艾琳·兰黛[Aerin Lauder]回忆说）。
Yet her rise is due in equal measure to the extraordinary moment in China’s history from which she emerged. When Liu was born, in 1988, the daughter of a construction worker, many of the brands she has modeled for — Dior, Chanel, Jean Paul Gaultier — were unknown in the country. Beijing was then a sea of bicycles, and thick coal dust in the air darkened both shirt collars and the sky. China’s per capita annual income was just $704 (last year it was $5,184), and only a sliver of the population could afford such luxuries as skin creams and handbags.
但是她的成功也同样得益于她出生在中国历史上的一个特殊时刻。刘雯1988年出生，是建筑工人的女儿，她展示过的很多品牌——迪奥(Dior)、香奈儿(Chanel)、高缇耶(Jean Paul Gaultier)——当时在中国没人知道。北京当时是自行车的海洋，空气中浓浓的煤尘把衬衣领子和天空都染黑了。当时中国的人均年收入只有704美元（去年是5184美元），只有少数人能买得起护肤品和手包这样的奢侈品。
With roaring economic growth every year of her childhood, Beijing was transformed by the time Liu moved there in 2006, as an 18-year-old aspiring model. No longer a wasteland of sleepy state-owned department stores, the capital was throwing up stadiums, shopping malls and car dealerships. At the same time, the city had become a magnet for China’s young dreamers — artists, writers, designers, punk bands, models.
在她的童年时代，每一年经济都在蓬勃发展。到2006年，18岁的刘雯作为一个充满抱负的模特搬到北京时，这里已经发生了天翻地覆的变化。它不再是一个只有死气沉沉的国营商场的不毛之地，而是在修建体育馆、购物中心和汽车交易中心。与此同时，这座城市也吸引着中国的年轻追梦人——艺术家、作家、设计师、朋克乐队和模特。
It was into this energetic new world that Liu stepped one November morning after a 20-hour train ride from Yongzhou. She had come alone, clutching two suitcases full of warm clothes and snack foods her mother had packed. That fall, she had won a modeling contest in Hunan; her victory gave her the idea that modeling might be a career, but in no way assured success. She insisted that she’s “not pretty, pretty, pretty by Chinese standards — big eyes and small nose and mouth.” She had come on a leap of faith.
11月的一个早上，刘雯从永州坐了20个小时火车后，来到了这个充满活力的新世界。她只身前来，提着两个箱子，她妈妈在箱子里装满了暖和的衣服和零食。那年秋天，她在湖南省的一次模特大赛上获胜；这次胜利让她开始考虑以做模特为职业，但是对能否成功完全没有信心。她总认为自己“不漂亮，不漂亮，按照中国人的标准不漂亮——中国人认为美人应该是大眼睛、小鼻子、小嘴巴”。获奖让她的信心有了很大的提升。
In her first apartment, which she split with two other aspiring models, she began to pile up fashion magazines, at least 2,000 by her own estimate. Many, like Vogue China, had only recently printed their first issue, catering to a new class of urban Chinese consumers whose spending on cosmetics alone has leapt from $24 million in 1982 to $168 billion in 2009.
她的第一个公寓是和其他两个有抱负的模特一起合租的。她开始买时尚杂志，据她自己估算，至少买了2000本。很多杂志，比如《Vogue》中国版，当时刚刚出版第一期，以迎合中国城市消费者中的一个新阶层，她们在化妆品上的消费总额已经从1982年的2400万美元上升到2009年的1680亿美元。
In 2007, Liu was discovered at a Beijing fitting by Joseph Carle, then a creative director at Marie Claire International looking for models to whom both Western and Chinese women could relate.
2007年，在北京的一次试衣会上，约瑟夫·卡尔(Joseph Carle)发现了刘雯。卡尔当时是《Marie Claire》国际版的创意总监，他当时正在寻找中西方女性都欣赏的模特。
Soon she was appearing in those magazines she’d been hoarding, and by 2008 she’d walked for Burberry in Milan. The next year she moved to New York, knowing almost no English. “I could only smile and say, ‘yes’ and ‘no,’ ” she recalled. But she learned quickly with the help of Broadway shows, “Gossip Girl” and by comparing Chinese and English versions of the Harry Potter books. And she found a new look in vintage stores, a concept little known in China. Over Skype her mother asked her: “Why would you buy that old stuff, when you can afford new?”
很快她就出现在她大量购置的那些杂志上了。到2008年，她已经在米兰为巴宝莉(Burberry)走秀。第二年她搬到了纽约，当时几乎完全不会说英语。“我只会微笑着说yes和no，”她回忆说。但是通过看百老汇戏剧、《绯闻女孩》(Gossip Girl)和比较《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)的中英文版，她很快学会了说英语。她还在古董服装店里给自己找到了新行头，古董服装店这个概念当时在中国几乎没人知道。她妈妈在Skype上问她：“你能买得起新衣服，为什么要买那些旧的？”
Back in Hunan province, Liu posed at the ancient Yuelu Academy in Changsha, under a misty gray sky. Taking an optimistic view of the drizzle, she repeated an old Chinese saying: “Rain brings riches.” At that moment, a group of Chinese tourists wandered through the impromptu set, trailing a woman with a microphone clipped to her collar: “Ladies and gentlemen, this way.” Had she not become a model, she had planned to enter a local vocational school to become just such a tour guide. Now the crowd paid little attention to the tall slender woman wrapped for warmth in a blue parka. Only one young girl stopped and stared. Turning to a friend, she whispered, “She is so beautiful.” Liu warmed to the familiar lilt of Hunan dialect.
我们再回到湖南省，刘雯在长沙岳麓书院摆造型，天空雾蒙蒙的。她对毛毛雨抱着一种乐观的态度，说了一句中国老话：“雨带财。”这时，一群中国游客漫步穿过这个临时场地，领头的女人衣领上夹着麦克风，说道：“大家这边走。”她如果不做模特，本计划上个当地的职业学校，成为这样的导游。现在，这群人几乎没有注意到这个裹着蓝色大衣取暖的高挑女人。只有一个年轻女孩停下来注视。她扭过头对她的朋友小声说：“她真好看。”湖南话亲切的轻快调子令刘雯感到温暖。
In the van later, barreling between the Changsha and Yongzhou, she curled up across two seats and caught up on sleep. Outside, the light had faded; the view through the window soon changed from city — new hotels and high-rises — to rolling fields where farmers toil with spades in small plots still untouched by modern farm equipment. It felt a little like traveling back in time, although both worlds, the ancient and the hyper-modern, exist in China today. And Liu has learned the art of slipping between them.
后来回到货车上，从长沙开往永州，她蜷缩在两个座位上，开始补觉。窗外天色渐暗，城市里的新酒店和摩天大楼很快变成了起伏的田野，农民们拿着铁锹在田地上辛苦劳作，现代农业器械还没有来到这里。感觉有点像是穿越回过去，虽然这两个世界——古代的和超级现代的世界——在当今中国同时存在。刘已经学会了在两者之间穿梭的艺术。
At about midnight, the van pulled up to a rest stop near a Sinopec gas station. There were several large trucks laden with construction materials or oinking pigs, their drivers sleeping in the cabs. Liu and members of the crew wandered into the 24-hour convenience store and strolled down its brightly lit aisles. She picked up a bag of chocolates and a red sugary concoction labeled “Wang Zai Milk Drink.” A bit nostalgic, she said with a sigh, “It’s my favorite from my teenage years.” And then, though half asleep, she had the good grace to offer to translate between Mandarin and English, between the drowsy Sinopec store clerk and the black-clad New York makeup artist. “Yes, we have chips,” Liu said. “Shrimp flavor or cheese flavor?”
大约在午夜时分，货车在一个中国石化加油站附近的休息站停了下来。有几辆大卡车装满了建筑材料或哼叫的猪，司机们在驾驶室里睡觉。刘雯和工作人员走进一个24小时便利店，在明亮的货架之间闲逛。她拿起一袋巧克力和一个红色包装的含糖饮料，上面写着“旺仔牛奶”。她有点怀旧地叹了口气：“这是我十多岁的时候最喜欢的饮料。”虽然她还没睡醒，但是她还是善意地担当翻译，帮助昏昏欲睡的中国石化店员和身穿黑衣的纽约化妆师交流。“是的，我们有薯片，”刘雯说，“要鲜虾味的还是奶酪味的？”