As a little girl, if Hillary Rodham forgot to screw the cap back on the toothpaste, her father would toss the tube out the bathroom window. She’d scurry around in the snow-covered evergreen bushes outside their suburban Chicago home to find it and return inside to brush her teeth, reminded, once again, of one of Hugh E. Rodham’s many rules.
当希拉里·罗德汉姆(Hillary Rodham)还是个小女孩儿时，如果她忘记把牙膏盖拧回去，父亲会把牙膏扔出浴室的窗户。她得匆忙跑到那座芝加哥市郊的房子外，在积着雪的常青灌木丛间找到牙膏，再回屋里刷牙，这再一次提醒她记住，这是休·E·罗德汉姆(Hugh E. Rodham)众多规矩中的一条。
When she lagged behind in Miss Metzger’s fourth-grade math class, Mr. Rodham would wake his daughter at dawn to grill her on multiplication tables. When she brought home an A, he would sneer: “You must go to a pretty easy school.”
当她在梅茨格小姐教的四年级数学课上落后时，罗德汉姆先生会在天刚亮就叫醒女儿，问她乘法表的问题。当她在考试中拿到“A”时，罗德汉姆先生会讥讽道：“看来你上了个好混的学校”。
Mrs. Clinton has made the struggles of her mother, Dorothy Rodham, a central part of her 2016 campaign’s message, and has repeatedly described Mrs. Rodham’s life story to crowds around the country. But her father, whom Mrs. Clinton rarely talks about publicly, exerted an equally powerful, if sometimes bruising, influence on the woman who wants to become the first female president.
克林顿把母亲多尔西·罗德汉姆(Dorothy Rodham)的抗争当做她2016年竞选要旨的中心，向着各地的民众讲述罗德汉姆夫人一生的故事。克林顿极少在公开场合谈论父亲，但对这位想成为美国第一任女总统的女性来说，父亲给她的影响同样有力，虽然有时是伤害性的。
The brusque son of an English immigrant and a coal miner’s daughter in Scranton, Pa., Mr. Rodham, for most of his life, harbored prejudices against blacks, Catholics and anyone else not like him. He hurled biting sarcasm at his wife and only daughter and spanked, at times excessively, his three children to keep them in line, according to interviews with friends and a review of documents, Mrs. Clinton’s writings and former President Bill Clinton’s memoir.
举止粗鲁的罗德汉姆的父亲是英国移民，母亲是宾夕法尼亚州斯克兰顿煤矿工人的女儿，他一生中绝大多数时候都歧视黑人、天主教徒以及任何和他不一样的人。通过采访克林顿的朋友，查阅文件、她的文章以及前总统比尔·克林顿的回忆录可以看到，罗德汉姆会对妻子和唯一的女儿发出刻薄的讥讽，屡屡动手打三个孩子，让他们守规矩。
“By all accounts he was kind of a tough customer,” said Lissa Muscatine, a longtime friend and adviser to Mrs. Clinton. “Hard working, believed in no free rides, believed you had to earn what you’re going to get, believed his kids could always do better.”
“无论怎么看他都是个难对付的家伙，”丽莎·马斯卡廷(Lissa Muscatine)说，她是克林顿的老朋友兼顾问。“他工作勤奋，相信没有白占的便宜，相信必须付出才能有收获，总认为他的孩子应该做的更好。”
Presidential candidates often turn to hard-knocks family stories to help them connect to voters, but for years, Mrs. Clinton refrained from sharing a detailed portrait of her childhood. In her 2016 campaign, she has shown an increased willingness to talk about her mother, a warm and devoted parent who had been abandoned by her own parents and who worked as a housekeeper as a teenager before she met and married Mr. Rodham.
总统候选人经常用不幸的家庭故事来拉近他们和选民的距离，但是多年来，克林顿努力不去分享她童年的细节。在2016年大选中，她越来越显露出谈论母亲的意愿，她的母亲是一位友善且尽责的家长，从小被父母遗弃，从十几岁开始就做家政服务，直到遇见并嫁给罗德汉姆先生。
But Mrs. Clinton refers in only oblique ways to her father.
但是克林顿仅以间接的方式提及父亲。
At a house party in Iowa this month, a supporter gave Mrs. Clinton garlic pills to help her fend off illness on the campaign trail. The unexpected gift brought about an olfactory, and impromptu, memory. “My late father was a huge believer in garlic,” and not the odorless kind, Mrs. Clinton said. “I couldn’t believe it when I saw him eating a garlic and peanut butter and jelly sandwich.”
本月在爱荷华州的一个家居派对上，一位支持者给了克林顿一些大蒜精，帮她在巡回竞选的路途中抵御疾病。这个意外的礼物唤起了一段嗅觉的、即兴的回忆。“我已故的父亲非常相信大蒜的功效，”并且不是没味儿的这种，克林顿说。“看到他吃大蒜、花生酱、果酱三明治，我觉得难以置信。”
Even her Father’s Day message this year, posted on Twitter, was, essentially, an ode to her mother.
即便是她今年发布在Twitter上的父亲节寄语，实际上也是对母亲的赞扬。
“I wish she could have seen the America we are going to build together,” she wrote of Mrs. Rodham, who died in 2011. “An America,” Mrs. Clinton continued, “where a father can tell his daughter: Yes, you can be anything you want to be. Even President of the United States.”
“我真希望她能看到我们将要一起建设的美国，”她在提及2011年去世的罗德汉姆夫人时写道。“在这个美国，”克林顿继续说，“一个父亲可以告诉他的女儿：是的，你可以做你任何想做的事。甚至可以当上合众国总统。”
It is unclear what Mr. Rodham, an ardent conservative, would have thought about his only daughter’s trying (again) to capture the Democratic nomination.
不清楚罗德汉姆先生作为一名坚定的保守派人士，对于唯一的女儿（再次）争取民主党提名会有什么看法。
He died of a stroke at age 82 in 1993, not long after he watched his daughter hold the Bible as his son-in-law was sworn into office, but long before she began her own political career.
罗德汉姆在1993年中风去世，享年82岁。就在去世前不久，他才看着女儿在女婿的就职仪式上手捧圣经。但那时的女儿还远未开始自己的政治生涯。
When Mr. Clinton eulogized Mr. Rodham, he described him as “tough and gruff” and said he “thought Democrats were one step short of Communism — but that I might be O.K.”
比尔·克林顿在罗德汉姆先生的葬礼上致辞，说罗德汉姆是个“强硬而彪悍的人”，还说他“认为民主党人离共产主义一步之遥——但我可能还行”。
If Mrs. Rodham, a homemaker who never attended college but who raised her daughter to be confident and caring, is forming the emotional core of Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 campaign, invoked as the inspiration behind her decades of public service, then Mrs. Clinton’s father quietly represents the candidate’s combative, determined and scrappy side. The inspiration, friends said, that toughened his daughter up to not just withstand but embrace yet another political battle.
如果说，从未上过大学却把女儿培养得富有自信和同情心的家庭主妇罗德汉姆夫人，构成了克林顿2016年竞选的情感核心，也激励着她在过去几十年投身公共服务，那么她的父亲不知不觉中已经代表了她好斗、坚定和好胜的一面。朋友们说，她的父亲激励着她坚强，让她不仅仅是承受，而是迎接一场又一场的政治斗争。
“He was such a force in the family, and there’s a lot of him in Hillary,” said Lisa Caputo, a friend and former White House press aide who knew Mr. Rodham. “The discipline, the tenacity, the work ethic, a lot of that’s from him.”
“他在家里很有影响力，希拉里很多地方都像他，”其中一位朋友、前新闻发言人丽莎·卡普托(Lisa Caputo)说。“自律、坚韧、职业操守，这许多都是来自他。”卡普托认识罗德姆。
When Mrs. Clinton does invoke her father on the campaign trail, she talks about him as a small-business owner who “just believed that you had to work hard to make your way and do whatever you had to do to be successful and provided a good living for our family.” (Mr. Rodham shut his drapery business in 1965.)
当克林顿在竞选过程中谈到自己的父亲时，她会说父亲是个小企业主，“相信人必须要努力向前，竭尽所能追求成功，而且他给家人提供了美好的生活”。（罗德姆于1965年关闭了自己的布料店。）
Or Mrs. Clinton reminds people that her father was a Republican, an aside to show she can work with the other side. She did highlight her father’s geographic roots in her 2008 campaign, when she tried to win white working-class voters in the Democratic primaries against Barack Obama. Mr. Rodham was born to strict Methodists in working-class eastern Pennsylvania.
她也提醒人们她父亲是共和党人，表明了她能同另一方合作。在2008年竞选时，她确实强调过父亲的出生地，为的是在民主党初选中赢得白人工薪阶层的选票，与奥巴马竞争。罗德姆出生于宾夕法尼亚州东部一个以工薪阶层为主的社区，父母是虔诚的卫理公会信徒。
His father, Hugh Simpson Rodham, toiled in a Scranton lace mill, and his mother, Hannah Jones Rodham, came from a long line of coal miners. When she was a girl, Hillary and her two brothers spent summers at a cabin in the Pocono Mountains that had no indoor bath.
他的父亲休·辛普森·罗德姆(Hugh Simpson Rodham)在斯克兰顿的一家麻纺厂辛勤工作，母亲汉娜·琼斯·罗德姆(Hannah Jones Rodham)来自一个矿工世家。小时候，希拉里和两个弟弟常在波科诺山区(Pocono Mountains)的小木屋度过暑假，那里没有室内浴室。
Mrs. Clinton tries to visit her father’s grave, in the Rodham plot at the Washburn Street Cemetery in Scranton, when she passes through. She will return to Scranton on July 29 to raise money, her first trip back since she began her 2016 campaign.
克林顿路过此地时，会尽量拜谒父亲的墓地，罗德姆家族的墓地位于斯克兰顿的华希本街墓园(Washburn Street Cemetery)。她将在7月29日返回斯克兰顿筹款，这是她开始2016年竞选活动后首次回去。
“My grandfather, like so many of his generation, came to this country as a young child, as an immigrant, went to work at age 11 in the lace mills in Scranton,” she says. “So when my dad was born in Scranton, he was born with that American dream.”
“我的祖父和他那一代的很多人一样，小时候作为移民来到美国，11岁就开始在斯克兰顿的麻纺厂里工作，”她说。“我父亲在斯克兰顿出生时，他是随着美国梦一起出生的。”
But unlike her mother’s struggles, the darker parts of her father’s biography rarely come up when Mrs. Clinton speaks.
但是，在希拉里的演讲中，她很少提到父亲生平中的黑暗部分，这与她常提母亲的奋斗不同。
Depression ran in the family. Mrs. Clinton’s father found his brother Russell hanging but alive in the attic of his parents’ home and had to cut him down. Russell came to live with the Rodhams in their one-bedroom Lincoln Park apartment in Chicago. (In 1950, when Hillary was a toddler, the family moved to a two-story brick house in the affluent suburb of Park Ridge, Ill. Russell rented an apartment nearby, but he died in 1962 when he left a cigarette burning, setting his home afire.)
希拉里父亲的家族有抑郁症史。她父亲在他父母家的阁楼上，发现弟弟拉塞尔(Russell)上了吊，但还活着，他把弟弟救了下来。拉塞尔搬到了罗德姆夫妇位于芝加哥林肯公园的单卧室公寓里。（1950年，当希拉里蹒跚学步时，她家搬到了伊利诺伊州帕克里奇[Park Ridge]富裕郊区的一栋两层砖楼里，拉塞尔在附近租了一个公寓，由于没有熄灭烟头，导致公寓失火，他于1962年去世。）
Mr. Rodham, who was 230 pounds and 6-foot-2, with thick black hair and furrowed eyebrows, had played football at Pennsylvania State University and worked as a fitness instructor in the Navy during World War II.
罗德姆先生身高6英尺2英寸（约1.88米）、体重230磅（约104公斤），他有浓黑的头发，常紧锁着眉毛，在宾夕法尼亚州立大学念书时，他曾踢过橄榄球，后在第二次世界大战期间，在美国海军担任过健身教练。
He would hurl criticism at his wife around the kitchen table at 235 Wisner Street. When she encouraged Hillary to learn for learning’s sake, Mr. Rodham, who drove a Cadillac, would quip: “Learn for earning’s sake.” If his children asked for an allowance for their many household chores, he would reply bluntly: “I feed you, don’t I?”
他会在威斯纳街235号自家的餐桌上大声批评妻子。当妻子鼓励希拉里为学习而学习时，喜欢开凯迪拉克的罗德姆先生会插话说，“为赚钱而学习才是正道。”如果他的孩子们在做了很多家务活后，要求得到点津贴的话，他会直言不讳地回答：“我养活你们还不够吗？”
The family was isolated from its neighbors because of Mr. Rodham’s sour, demeaning nature and his misanthropic tendencies, said Carl Bernstein, who wrote a 2007 biography of Hillary Clinton, “A Woman in Charge.”
希拉里·克林顿2007年的传记《掌权的女人》(A Woman in Charge)一书的作者卡尔·伯恩斯坦说，由于罗德姆先生阴郁、爱贬低人的性格，以及他不愿与人交往的倾向，他家与邻居颇为隔阂。
“It was anything but ‘Father Knows Best,’” Mr. Bernstein said in an interview.
伯恩斯坦在采访中说，“他一点也不像《妙爸爸》。”（《妙爸爸》[Father Knows Best]是1950年代的一部电视系列喜剧——译注。）
Mrs. Rodham was on blood thinners and unable to travel to see her daughter deliver the 1969 commencement speech at Wellesley. Hillary was devastated that her mother could not make it. Mr. Rodham attended instead.
1969年，希拉里在韦尔斯利学院毕业典礼上做毕业演讲时，罗德姆太太由于在使用血液稀释剂，无法前往。希拉里对母亲不能参加毕业典礼深为痛苦。代替母亲来参加的是罗德姆先生。
Her relationship with her father had deteriorated as she drifted away from the party of Barry Goldwater and got swept up in the liberalism of the late 1960s. “In typical Hugh Rodham fashion, he flew to Boston late the night before, stayed out by the airport, took the MTA to campus, attended graduation” and, after lunch with some of Hillary’s classmates, went right back to Chicago, Mrs. Clinton wrote in her 2003 memoir, “Living History.”
随着希拉里在20世纪60年代末的自由主义潮流席卷之下，远离巴里·高华德(Barry Goldwater)所在的共和党，她与父亲的关系已经恶化。希拉里在自己2003年的自传《亲历历史》(Living History)中写道，“以典型的休·罗德姆风格，他在前一天晚上飞到波士顿，住在了远离校园的机场附近，第二天乘公交车到校园参加了毕业典礼。”在和希拉里的同学们吃完午饭后，马上返回了芝加哥。
But their relationship was not without warmth.
但他们的关系并非没有温情。
Mrs. Clinton and her father shared the same distinct laugh, a “big, rolling guffaw that can turn heads in a restaurant and send cats running from the room,” as she described it in “Living History.” They played heated games of pinochle (though Mr. Rodham was known to flip the table if he lost).
希拉里与自己的父亲有同样的独特笑声，正如她在《亲历历史》中描述的那样：“一种响亮的、震人肺腑的大笑，能让饭馆里的人转过头来看你的那种，能把房间里的猫吓跑的那种。”他们会玩上几场激烈的皮纳克尔(pinochle)纸牌游戏（但罗德姆先生有掀翻牌桌的名声，如果他输了的话）。
Mr. Rodham taught his only daughter that she could play sports and do anything the boys did. When she was racked with self-doubt at Wellesley and Yale, her father wrote her tough but tender letters telling her to buck up. “Even when he erupted at me, he admired my independence and accomplishments,” she later wrote.
罗德姆先生教育自己唯一的女儿，她能参加体育运动，能做男孩子做的所有事情。当她在韦尔斯利学院和耶鲁大学受到自我怀疑的折磨时，父亲给她写了封严厉但慈爱的信，让她振作起来。她后来写道，“就连在对我发火时，他也很赞赏我的独立和我所取得的成就。”
At his daughter’s wedding in 1975, Mr. Rodham was hesitant to give the bride away to Mr. Clinton, a penniless Southern Baptist Democrat. “You can step back now, Mr. Rodham,” the minister finally said.
在女儿1975年的婚礼上，罗德姆先生对把新娘交给克林顿有点犹豫，当时，克林顿是个属于浸礼会教派、属于民主党的南方穷小子。婚礼的主持人最后不得说，“你现在可以退一步了，罗德姆先生。”
In 1987, after Mr. Rodham had quadruple-bypass surgery, he and Dorothy moved to Little Rock, Ark., to be closer to their daughter and granddaughter, Chelsea. Mrs. Clinton arranged for them to live in a condominium in the city’s leafy Hillcrest district. Chelsea Clinton called her grandfather Pop Pop. The Rodhams attended her softball games, cheering her on and taking her and her friends out for frozen yogurt afterward.
1987年，罗德姆先生做了心脏四重搭桥手术后，他和多萝西搬到了阿肯色州小石城(Little Rock)，这样他们就与他们的女儿和外孙女切尔西(Chelsea)住得更近了。希拉里安排父母住在小石城绿树成荫的山顶区(Hillcrest district)一个独立产权公寓里。切尔西·克林顿称外祖父为“老老爸”(Pop Pop)。罗德姆夫妇常观看外孙女的垒球比赛，为她加油，赛后带她和她的朋友们去吃冰冻酸奶。
“Her father at that point was beginning to decline, so I think it was to be close to family, and obviously Hillary was close to her family, especially to her mom,” said Skip Rutherford, a longtime friend in Little Rock.
“希拉里父亲的身体那时候已开始衰弱，所以我觉得他们想和家人住得更近一点，显然希拉里与家人很亲近，尤其是和妈妈，”小石城的一位老朋友斯基普·卢瑟福(Skip Rutherford)说。
After President Clinton’s 1993 inauguration, when friends and family toasted the Clintons’ arrival in Washington at a party, Mr. Rodham was spotted stewing in a corner and nursing a drink. “My daughter is a real special girl,” he told a friend from Scranton, Manny Gelb, who relayed the story to The Associated Press.
克林顿总统1993年就职典礼之后，朋友和家人为欢迎克林顿夫妇入住华盛顿举行了一个晚会，为他们祝酒时，有人看到罗德姆先生一个人不安地呆在一个角落里慢慢地喝酒。他对来自斯克兰顿的朋友曼尼·盖尔布(Manny Gelb)说，“我女儿是个真正了不起的女孩。”盖尔布后来把这个故事转述给了美联社。
When her father had a stroke in 1993, Mrs. Clinton, who was having difficulty adjusting to life in the White House, was deeply shaken.
当她的父亲1993年中风时，对白宫生活很不适应的克林顿夫人受到了深深的震撼。
After his life-support machines had been removed and Mr. Rodham lay in a coma at St. Vincent Infirmary in Little Rock, a scrum of news cameras and reporters waiting outside for any updates, Mrs. Clinton traveled to Austin, Tex., to deliver a speech she felt obligated to give.
当支撑他生命的机器被停止、罗德姆先生在小石城圣文森特医院处于昏迷状态，新闻摄像机和记者拥挤在医院外面，等待任何新消息时，克林顿夫人来到得克萨斯州奥斯汀，作了一个她觉得有责任作的演讲。
It became one of the more unusual addresses ever delivered by a first lady. Ms. Caputo, who accompanied Mrs. Clinton on the trip, described the stream-of-consciousness speech — about the meaning of life, death and the need to remake civil society, delivered without a script — as “cathartic.”
这个演讲成为第一夫人有史以来发表的极不寻常的演讲之一。克林顿夫人的随行卡普托女士把演讲描述为意识流式的，是有关生命的意义、死亡，以及需要重建公民社会的“情感宣泄”，没有用讲稿。
“When does life start? When does life end? Who makes those decisions? How do we dare to impinge upon these areas of such delicate, difficult questions?” Mrs. Clinton asked the crowd.
“生命从什么时候开始？在什么时候结束？这些决定由谁来做？我们怎么胆敢涉入这些微妙而且困难问题的范畴？”克林顿夫人向听众问道。
She never mentioned her father, but quoted Lee Atwater, the Republican strategist who wrote that America was suffering from a “spiritual vacuum,” caught up in its “ruthless ambitions and moral decay,” before he died of cancer at age 40 in 1991.
她在演讲中从未提自己的父亲，但引用了共和党战略师李·阿特沃特(Lee Atwater)的话，阿特沃特1991年死于癌症时年仅40岁，之前他曾写过美国正处在一种“精神真空”之中，陷入了“无情的野心和道德沦丧”的困扰。
“You can acquire all you want and still feel empty,” Mrs. Clinton said. “What power wouldn’t I trade for a little more time with my family?”
“你能获得你想要的所有东西，但仍感到空虚，”希拉里说。“要是能换来与家人在一起的更多时间，有什么权力不能放弃呢？”
Hugh Rodham died the next day.
休·罗德姆在女儿演讲的第二天去世了。