The 55 miles from Campbell to San Francisco make for one of the nicest commutes anywhere. The journey mostly zips along the Junipero Serra Freeway, a grand and remarkably empty highway that abuts the east side of the Santa Cruz Mountains. It is one of the best places in Silicon Valley to spot a start-up tycoon speed-testing his Ferrari and one of the worst places for cellphone reception. For Andy Grignon, it was therefore the perfect place for him to be alone with his thoughts early on Jan. 8, 2007.
从加州坎贝尔市到旧金山要有88公里的行程，这可以说是所有上下班路线中最美好的一条。全程的大半是沿着朱尼佩洛·席拉高速公路(Junipero Serra Freeway)蜿蜒行驶，这条宏伟且车辆非常稀少的公路紧挨着圣塔克鲁兹山脉(Santa Cruz Mountains)的东边。如果你想看靠创业公司发家的大亨测试其法拉利的速度，这里是硅谷最好的地方之一。不过就手机信号而论，这里是最差的地方之一。因此，对安迪·格里尼翁(Andy Grignon)来说，这里是2007年1月8日那天，他可以独自一人好好思考的完美地方。
This wasn’t Grignon’s typical route to work. He was a senior engineer at Apple in Cupertino, the town just west of Campbell. His morning drive typically covered seven miles and took exactly 15 minutes. But today was different. He was going to watch his boss, Steve Jobs, make history at the Macworld trade show in San Francisco. Apple fans had for years begged Jobs to put a cellphone inside their iPods so they could stop carrying two devices in their pockets. Jobs was about to fulfill that wish. Grignon and some colleagues would spend the night at a nearby hotel, and around 10 a.m. the following day they — along with the rest of the world — would watch Jobs unveil the first iPhone.
这不是格里尼翁上班常走的路。他曾是苹果(Apple)公司的高级工程师，苹果公司位于坎贝尔市西面的小镇库佩蒂诺。他早上开车上班，一般单程11公里，恰好需要15分钟。但这天与以往不同。他是在去旧金山的路上，在那里的Macworld贸易展会上，他将见证自己的上司史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)创造历史。多年来，苹果粉丝们一直恳求乔布斯，希望他把手机功能装配到他们的iPod里面，这样他们就不必在口袋里揣着两件设备。乔布斯即将要满足他们这个愿望了。格里尼翁和一些同事们将在展会的前一天住在会场附近的一家旅馆里，第二天早上十点，他们将和世界上其他人一起，观看乔布斯演示第一款iPhone。
But as Grignon drove north, he didn’t feel excited. He felt terrified. Most onstage product demonstrations in Silicon Valley are canned. The thinking goes, why let bad Internet or cellphone connections ruin an otherwise good presentation? But Jobs insisted on live presentations. It was one of the things that made them so captivating. Part of his legend was that noticeable product-demo glitches almost never happened. But for those in the background, like Grignon, few parts of the job caused more stress.
但是，随着格里尼翁一路往北开着车，他并没有感到兴奋。他感到的是恐惧。在硅谷，大多数产品的演示都是事先做好的。人们是这样想的：原本相当不错的产品，要是碰上互联网或移动网的连接出问题，不就砸了？但乔布斯坚持要用现场连网的方式。这正是他的产品发布会有吸引力的原因之一。构成他传奇的一个部分就是，他做产品展示时，几乎从来不出现人们能注意到的故障。但对那些包括格里尼翁在内的后台工作人员来说，这是他们压力最大的工作之一。
Grignon was the senior manager in charge of all the radios in the iPhone. This is a big job. Cellphones do innumerable useful things for us today, but at their most basic, they are fancy two-way radios. Grignon was in charge of the equipment that allowed the phone to be a phone. If the device didn’t make calls, or didn’t connect with Bluetooth headsets or Wi-Fi setups, Grignon had to answer for it. As one of the iPhone’s earliest engineers, he’d dedicated two and a half years of his life — often seven days a week — to the project.
格里尼翁是负责iPhone上所有的无线电信号的资深经理。这可是一项重要的工作。虽然如今的手机能帮我们做数不清的有用的事情，但是究其根本，它不过是一台花哨的双向无线电收发机。格里尼翁所负责的器件是让手机成为手机的那个部分。如果这个设备无法打电话、无法连接到蓝牙耳机上、无法连上Wi-Fi，那么格里尼翁就要承担责任。作为iPhone最早的几名工程师之一，他曾将生命中的两年半奉献给了这个项目，而且很多时候是一周工作七天。
Grignon had been part of the iPhone rehearsal team at Apple and later at the presentation site in San Francisco’s Moscone Center. He had rarely seen Jobs make it all the way through his 90-minute show without a glitch. Jobs had been practicing for five days, yet even on the last day of rehearsals the iPhone was still randomly dropping calls, losing its Internet connection, freezing or simply shutting down.
格里尼翁是iPhone预演小组的一员，预演先是在苹果公司进行，后来搬到旧金山的莫斯克尼中心(Moscone Center)。他多次观看乔布斯排练其90分钟的演示，几乎没有一次不出现故障。乔布斯已经排练了五天，但是直到排练的最后一天，iPhone还会时不时地电话掉线，失去其互联网信号，死机，甚至自动关机。
“At first it was just really cool to be at rehearsals at all — kind of like a cred badge,” Grignon says. Only a chosen few were allowed to attend. “But it quickly got really uncomfortable. Very rarely did I see him become completely unglued — it happened, but mostly he just looked at you and very directly said in a very loud and stern voice, ‘You are [expletive] up my company,’ or, ‘If we fail, it will be because of you.’ He was just very intense. And you would always feel an inch tall.” Grignon, like everyone else at rehearsals, knew that if those glitches showed up during the real presentation, Jobs would not be blaming himself for the problems. “It felt like we’d gone through the demo a hundred times, and each time something went wrong,” Grignon says. “It wasn’t a good feeling.”
格里尼翁说，“一开始时，能够呆在预演现场是一件挺酷的事情——那就好像是一种信任认可。”只有少数精心挑选的人士才有资格参加。“但是很快，预演就变得让人不太舒服了。我很少见到乔布斯变得那么彻底地失控，但的确发生了；不过，绝大多数时间，他只是盯着你，然后用极大的严厉声音直接对你说，‘你（脏话）了我的公司，’或者是，‘如果搞砸了，全是你的错。’他非常激烈。在他面前你总是感到有点渺小。”跟其他在预演现场的所有人一样，格里尼翁知道，如果在实际展示的时候出现故障，乔布斯肯定不会认为那是他自己的问题。格里尼翁说，“就好像是我们排练了一百遍，但每次都会出现一些错误。这种感觉不怎么好。”
The preparations were top-secret. From Thursday through the end of the following week, Apple completely took over Moscone. Backstage, it built an eight-by-eight-foot electronics lab to house and test the iPhones. Next to that it built a greenroom with a sofa for Jobs. Then it posted more than a dozen security guards 24 hours a day in front of those rooms and at doors throughout the building. No one got in without having his or her ID electronically checked and compared with a master list that Jobs had personally approved. The auditorium where Jobs was rehearsing was off limits to all but a small group of executives. Jobs was so obsessed with leaks that he tried to have all the contractors Apple hired — from people manning booths and doing demos to those responsible for lighting and sound — sleep in the building the night before his presentation. Aides talked him out of it.
这些准备工作都是绝对保密的。从周四直到下周末，苹果公司包下了整个莫斯克尼中心。在后台，苹果搭建了一个八乘八英尺的电子实验室，专门用来存放和测试所有的iPhone。实验室旁边为乔布斯设置了一个配有沙发的休息室。接下来，苹果动用了十几名保安人员，24小时守卫在这些房间以及整幢建筑物的各个门口。只有通过电子身份验证，同时名字在一张乔布斯亲自审核过的名单上的人才有资格进来。乔布斯正在预演的礼堂除了少数高管，其他人一律不能进入。乔布斯对防止泄密几乎到了痴迷的程度，在展示的前夜，他甚至试图要求苹果所雇佣的所有承包商都睡在展览中心，不论是控制舞台、负责展示的人，还是控制灯光音响的人。他的助理最终说服了他不要那么干。
Grignon knew the iPhone unveiling was not an ordinary product announcement, but no one could have anticipated what a seminal moment it would become. In the span of seven years, the iPhone and its iPad progeny have become among the most important innovations in Silicon Valley’s history. They transformed the stodgy cellphone industry. They provided a platform for a new and hugely profitable software industry — mobile apps, which have generated more than $10 billion in revenue since they began selling in 2008. And they have upended the multibillion-dollar personal-computer industry. If you include iPad sales with those for desktops and laptops, Apple is now the largest P.C. maker in the world. Around 200 million iPhones and iPads were sold last year, or more than twice the number of cars sold worldwide.
虽然格里尼翁知道，iPhone的亮相可不是什么普通的产品发布，但没有人能预料到，那将会成为一个多么具有开创性的时刻。七年之间，iPhone及其后代iPad已成为硅谷历史上最重要的创新之一。它们改变了古板的手机行业。它们为一个全新的、拥有巨大商机的软件行业搭建了平台——这就是移动应用，从2008年开始销售至今，已经产生了超过100亿美元（相当于610亿元人民币）的收入。同时，iPhone和iPad也撼动了价值数十亿美元的个人电脑行业。如果你将iPad的销售包括在台式机和笔记本电脑的销售数据中的话，苹果俨然已经成为全球最大的个人电脑制造商。去年，苹果卖出了2亿台iPhone和iPad，这是全球汽车销量的两倍以上。
The impact has been not only economic but also cultural. Apple’s innovations have set off an entire rethinking of how humans interact with machines. It’s not simply that we use our fingers now instead of a mouse. Smartphones, in particular, have become extensions of our brains. They have fundamentally changed the way people receive and process information. Ponder the individual impacts of the book, the newspaper, the telephone, the radio, the tape recorder, the camera, the video camera, the compass, the television, the VCR and the DVD, the personal computer, the cellphone, the video game and the iPod. The smartphone is all those things, and it fits in your pocket. Its technology is changing the way we learn in school, the way doctors treat patients, the way we travel and explore. Entertainment and media are accessed and experienced in entirely new ways.
影响不仅是对经济的，也有对文化的。苹果的创新，引发了有关人机交互的全新思考。这不仅是我们简单地用手指取代了鼠标。特别是智能手机，它们已经成为我们大脑的延伸，从根本上改变了人们获取信息、处理信息的方式。想想以下发明各自产生的影响吧：书、报纸、电话、无线电、录音机、照相机、摄像机、指南针、电视、录影机、DVD、个人电脑，还有手机、电子游戏以及iPod。智能手机将以上所有囊括于其中，而且它的体积如此之小，能够装进你的口袋里。这种技术正在改变我们在学校学习的方式，医生诊疗病人的方式，以及我们旅行和探索的方式。人们也有了全新的方式去获取并体验娱乐和媒体。
And yet Apple today is under siege. From the moment in late 2007 that Google unveiled Android — and its own plan to dominate the world of mobile phones and other mobile devices — Google hasn’t just tried to compete with the iPhone; it has succeeded in competing with the iPhone. Android has exploded in popularity since it took hold in 2010. Its share of the global smartphone market is approaching 80 percent, while Apple’s has fallen below 20 percent. A similar trend is under way with iPads: in 2010 the iPad had about 90 percent of the tablet market; now more than 60 percent of the tablets sold run Android.
不过，苹果如今已被包围。2007年底，自从谷歌公司推出Android系统，以及自己的统领全球移动电话和其他移动设备市场的计划以来，谷歌不只是想要跟iPhone竞争，它已经成功地挑战了iPhone。自从Android在2010年站稳脚跟以来，它的市场占有率迅速上升，在全球的智能手机市场已经接近80%，而苹果的占有率却下滑到了20%以下。iPad也遭遇了同样的趋势：2010年时，iPad占据将近90%的平板电脑市场份额；而现在超过60%的售出平板电脑安装的是Android系统。
What worries Apple fans most of all is not knowing where the company is headed. When Jobs died in October 2011, the prevailing question wasn’t whether Tim Cook could succeed him, but whether anyone could. When Jobs ran Apple, the company was an innovation machine, churning out revolutionary products every three to five years. He told his biographer, Walter Isaacson, that he had another breakthrough coming — a revolution in TV. But under Cook, nothing has materialized, and the lack of confidence among investors is palpable. When Cook presented the latest smartphones in September, the iPhone 5c and the iPhone 5s, Apple’s stock fell 10 percent. A year ago the company’s stock price was at $702 a share, making Apple the world’s most valuable corporation. Today, it’s down more than 25 percent from that peak.
最让苹果粉丝担忧的是，他们不清楚这家公司的发展方向。2011年10月乔布斯去世时，人们最大的疑问不是蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)能否接替他，而是世界上是否有人能接替他。当乔布斯运营苹果的时候，公司就像是一台创新机器，每隔三到五年就会捣鼓出革命性的产品。乔布斯曾告诉他的传记作者沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)，他还有一项突破性的产品即将面世——它会掀起电视的革命。但是在库克的领导下，并没有什么实质性的新产品面世，投资者明显表现出缺乏信心。今年9月，当库克向全世界展示最新款的智能手机，即iPhone 5c和iPhone 5s的时候，苹果的股价下跌了10%。一年前，该公司的股票曾达到每股702美元，使苹果成为全球市值最高的企业。但如今，其股价跟峰值相比已经下跌超过了25%。
Comparing anyone with Steve Jobs is unfair. And during his two years as Apple’s chief executive, Cook has taken pains to point out that Jobs himself made it clear to him that he didn’t want Cook running Apple the way he thought Jobs would want to, but the way Cook thought it should be done. It hardly needed to be said. When you look back at how the iPhone came to be, it’s clear that it had everything to do with the unreasonable demands — and unusual power — of an inimitable man.
把任何人与史蒂夫·乔布斯作对比都不公平。在库克就任苹果首席执行官的两年中，他不厌其烦地强调，史蒂夫自己明确告诉过他，不希望库克按照他所认为的乔布斯想要的方式来运营苹果，而是应该按照库克认为应该怎样做的方式。这几乎是不言自明的。如果你回头来看iPhone是怎样打造出来的，那很明显，它是一个无与伦比的人所提出的不切实际的要求、以及他不同寻常的力量的产物。
It’s hard to overstate the gamble Jobs took when he decided to unveil the iPhone back in January 2007. Not only was he introducing a new kind of phone — something Apple had never made before — he was doing so with a prototype that barely worked. Even though the iPhone wouldn’t go on sale for another six months, he wanted the world to want one right then. In truth, the list of things that still needed to be done was enormous. A production line had yet to be set up. Only about a hundred iPhones even existed, all of them of varying quality. Some had noticeable gaps between the screen and the plastic edge; others had scuff marks on the screen. And the software that ran the phone was full of bugs.
当乔布斯决定在2007年1月推出iPhone的时候，可以毫不夸张地说他在孤注一掷。他不仅是在介绍一种全新的手机——一种苹果公司以前从来都没有制造过的东西——而且他是用一个几乎不正常工作的原型来这样做的。虽然iPhone的上市还要再等六个月，但他要让全世界在那一刻就想拥有之。实际情况是，仍需要解决的问题非常之多。生产线还没有建起来。当时仅仅制造出一百来个iPhone，而且质量参差不齐。有的屏幕与塑料框之间存在显而易见的缝隙，有的屏幕上存在磨损痕迹。而且手机的操作系统软件错误百出。
The iPhone could play a section of a song or a video, but it couldn’t play an entire clip reliably without crashing. It worked fine if you sent an e-mail and then surfed the Web. If you did those things in reverse, however, it might not. Hours of trial and error had helped the iPhone team develop what engineers called “the golden path,” a specific set of tasks, performed in a specific way and order, that made the phone look as if it worked.
当时的iPhone能够播放一小节音乐，一小段视频，但不能可靠地播放整段歌曲或视频而不出现程序崩溃。如果你先发一封电子邮件，之后再上网浏览，那么它能正常工作；但如果你做事的次序倒过来的话，那它可能就没法正常工作了。经过了几个小时的反复试验后，iPhone团队终于找到了一条工程师称之为“黄金路径”的程序，也就是说，如果按照特定的次序和特定的方式来运行某些特定的任务，那么这手机看起来好像在正常工作。
But even when Jobs stayed on the golden path, all manner of last-minute workarounds were required to make the iPhone functional. On announcement day, the software that ran Grignon’s radios still had bugs. So, too, did the software that managed the iPhone’s memory. And no one knew whether the extra electronics Jobs demanded the demo phones include would make these problems worse.
然而，即使乔布斯不偏离黄金路径，为了让iPhone能够正常操作，仍需要做许多最后关头的变通。在发布日当天，运转格里尼翁所负责的无线电信号的软件仍会出错。管理iPhone内存的软件也有错。而且没人知道，乔布斯要求这些演示机所具有的额外电子设备，会不会让问题变得更糟。
Jobs wanted the demo phones he would use onstage to have their screens mirrored on the big screen behind him. To show a gadget on a big screen, most companies just point a video camera at it, but that was unacceptable to Jobs. The audience would see his finger on the iPhone screen, which would mar the look of his presentation. So he had Apple engineers spend weeks fitting extra circuit boards and video cables onto the backs of the iPhones he would have onstage. The video cables were then connected to the projector, so that when Jobs touched the iPhone’s calendar app icon, for example, his finger wouldn’t appear, but the image on the big screen would respond to his finger’s commands. The effect was magical. People in the audience felt as if they were holding an iPhone in their own hands. But making the setup work flawlessly, given the iPhone’s other major problems, seemed hard to justify at the time.
乔布斯要求，他在台上用的演示手机的屏幕能够被影射到他背后的大屏幕上。如果想要在大屏幕上展示某种设备，绝大多数公司的做法是把摄像头对着那个设备，但这对乔布斯来说不可接受。那样的话，观众们就会看到乔布斯的手指出现在iPhone屏幕上，那将有损他演示的效果。所以他让苹果工程师花费了数周时间，在他准备在台上用的几个iPhone背后，配上另外的电路板和视频线，然后把视频线连接到投影仪上。这样一来，比方说当乔布斯点击iPhone上的日历图标时，他的手指不会在大屏幕上出现，而大屏幕上的图像会响应他手指发出的指令。这种效果非常神奇。观众的感觉就好像他们自己手里拿着一台iPhone似的。然而，鉴于iPhone存在其他主要问题，把一个展示效果搞得完美无缺，在当时似乎没有什么道理。
The software in the iPhone’s Wi-Fi radio was so unstable that Grignon and his team had to extend the phones’ antennas by connecting them to wires running offstage so the wireless signal wouldn’t have to travel as far. And audience members had to be prevented from getting on the frequency being used. “Even if the base station’s ID was hidden” — that is, not showing up when laptops scanned for Wi-Fi signals — “you had 5,000 nerds in the audience,” Grignon says. “They would have figured out how to hack into the signal.” The solution, he says, was to tweak the AirPort software so that it seemed to be operating in Japan instead of the United States. Japanese Wi-Fi uses some frequencies that are not permitted in the U.S.
控制iPhone中的Wi-Fi无线电信号的软件很不稳定，格里尼翁和他的团队只好将手机天线延展，将他们与后台电线连起来，这样的话无线信号的传输距离就缩短了。同时，他们还要确保台下观众不进入他们的信号频率。“就算隐藏了基站的ID，”——也就是说当笔记本电脑搜索Wi-Fi信号时，演示用的基站名字不出现——“但观众可是五千名网虫子啊，”格里尼翁说，“他们肯定会找到办法侵入这个信号段。”他说，最后的解决办法是修改AirPort软件，让它看来是在日本运行，而不是在美国运行。日本的Wi-Fi会采用一些美国所不允许的频率。
There was less they could do to make sure the phone calls Jobs planned to make from the stage went through. Grignon and his team could only ensure a good signal, and then pray. They had AT&T, the iPhone’s wireless carrier, bring in a portable cell tower, so they knew reception would be strong. Then, with Jobs’s approval, they preprogrammed the phone’s display to always show five bars of signal strength regardless of its true strength. The chances of the radio’s crashing during the few minutes that Jobs would use it to make a call were small, but the chances of its crashing at some point during the 90-minute presentation were high. “If the radio crashed and restarted, as we suspected it might, we didn’t want people in the audience to see that,” Grignon says. “So we just hard-coded it to always show five bars.”
在确保乔布斯从台上拨出的电话一定能够打通这个问题上，他们所能做的要少得多。格里尼翁和团队能做的就是确保信号强劲，除此之外他们只能祈祷。他们让iPhone的无线运营商AT&T在现场设置了一台便携的手机信号发射塔，所以他们知道信号的接收肯定很强。之后，在得到了乔布斯许可的情况下，他们用软件将手机显示的信号强度预设为最高的五格，不管信号的实际强度如何。当乔布斯在台上使用iPhone拨打电话的那几分钟里面，无线电信号崩溃的几率不大，但是整个演示长达90分钟，在这么长时间中的某一刻无线电信号崩溃的概率很高。格里尼翁说，“如果真的像我们担心的那样，信号崩溃并重启，我们不想让在场观众看出来。所以我们把固定的数字写入程序中，手机上永远会显示五格的信号强度。”
None of these kludges fixed the iPhone’s biggest problem: it often ran out of memory and had to be restarted if made to do more than a handful of tasks at a time. Jobs had a number of demo units onstage with him to manage this problem. If memory ran low on one, he would switch to another while the first was restarted. But given how many demos Jobs planned, Grignon worried that there were far too many potential points of failure. If disaster didn’t strike during one of the dozen demos, it was sure to happen during the grand finale, when Jobs planned to show all the iPhone’s top features operating at the same time on the same phone. He’d play some music, take a call, put it on hold and take another call, find and e-mail a photo to the second caller, look up something on the Internet for the first caller and then return to his music. “Me and my guys were all so nervous about this,” Grignon says. “We only had 128 megabytes of memory in those phones” — maybe the equivalent of two dozen large digital photographs — “and because they weren’t finished, all these apps were still big and bloated.”
但是这些权宜之计都没有解决iPhone最大的问题：它的内存常常不够用，如果同时运行几个应用软件，就需要重新启动手机。为了对付这个问题，乔布斯在台上准备了几部演示用机。如果一部手机的内存不够了，需要重启时，他会换用另一部手机。但是考虑到乔布斯打算做的演示的数量，格里尼翁担心，可能失败的地方实在太多了。就算在想做的十几个演示中都不出问题，但在高潮的终场演示时肯定会出问题，因为按乔布斯的计划，届时他要在同一部手机上同时展示iPhone的所有主要功能。他要开始播放一段音乐，打一个电话，让对方不挂机，之后再打另一个电话，找出一张照片，用电子邮件将它发给第二个接电话的人，再帮第一个接电话的人在互联网上查找点东西，然后返回去继续听他的音乐。格里尼翁说，“对这个最终演示，我和同事们都很紧张，这些工程机只有128兆的内存，”——大概只相当于二十几张高像素照片的容量——“而且所有这些应用都还没有完全开发好，内存占用量都很大，很臃肿。”
Jobs rarely backed himself into corners like this. He was well known as a taskmaster, seeming to know just how hard he could push his staff so that it delivered the impossible. But he always had a backup, a Plan B, that he could go to if his timetable was off.
乔布斯很少让自己陷入这样的困境。他作为工头的恶名广为人知，他似乎总是知道可以对员工有多狠，让他们把不可能的任务变为可能。但他总是有一个备用方案，一个应急计划，如果完成第一个任务的时间来不及，他可以用第二个任务替代。
But the iPhone was the only cool new thing Apple was working on. The iPhone had been such an all-encompassing project at Apple that this time there was no backup plan. “It was Apple TV or the iPhone,” Grignon says. “And if he had gone to Macworld with just Apple TV” — a new product that connected iTunes to a television set — “the world would have said, ‘What the heck was that?’ ”
但是，iPhone是苹果那时做的唯一极酷的新玩意。iPhone的任务包罗万象，以至于这次，公司完全没有备用方案。格里尼翁说，“那时要在Apple TV和iPhone之间抉择，如果乔布斯当时选择只带着Apple TV参加Macworld的话，全世界的人肯定会说，‘靠，这是什么玩意儿啊？’”Apple TV是一个能把iTunes连接到电视机上的新产品。
The idea that one of the biggest moments of his career might implode made Grignon’s stomach hurt. By 2007 he’d spent virtually his entire career at Apple or companies affiliated with it. While at the University of Iowa in 1993, he and his friend Jeremy Wyld reprogrammed the Newton MessagePad to wirelessly connect to the Internet. Even though the Newton would not succeed as a product, many still regard it as the first mainstream hand-held computer, and their hack was quite a feat back then; it helped them both get jobs at Apple. Wyld ended up on the Newton team, while Grignon worked in Apple’s famous R. & D. lab — the Advanced Technology Group — on videoconferencing technology.
想到自己职业生涯中最重大的时刻有可能毁于一旦，格里尼翁就感到胃痛。截至2007年，他的整个职业生涯可以说都贡献给了苹果，或是其附属公司。1993年，当他还是艾奥瓦大学的学生时，他就跟朋友杰里米·维尔德(Jeremy Wyld)一起改编了牛顿(Newton)机上的MessagePad软件，使之能够无线地接入互联网。虽然牛顿没能成为一个成功的产品，很多人还是将其称为第一款主流的手持电脑，当时他们两人对这个设备的破解也是一个相当可观的壮举；这帮他俩获得了在苹果工作的机会。维尔德去了牛顿组，而格里尼翁则进入苹果著名的研发实验室——高级技术组，参加研发视频会议技术。
By 2000 Grignon had found his way to Pixo, a company started by a former Apple software developer that was building operating systems for cellphones and other small devices. When Pixo’s software ended up in the first iPod in 2001, Grignon found himself back at Apple again.
到了2000年，格里尼翁已跳槽到Pixo公司，这家公司由一位前苹果软件开发人员创办，那时正在研发手机和其他小型设备的操作系统。2001年，当第一款iPod采用了Pixo的软件后，格里尼翁又回到了苹果工作。
By then, thanks to his work at Pixo, he’d become prominent for two other areas of expertise besides videoconferencing technology: computer radio transmitters (Wi-Fi and Bluetooth) and the workings of software inside small hand-held devices like cellphones. Grignon moves in an entirely different world from that inhabited by most software engineers in the valley. Most rarely have to think about whether their code takes up too much space on a hard drive or overloads a chip’s abilities. Hardware on desktop and laptop computers is powerful, modifiable and cheap; memory, hard drives and even processors can be upgraded inexpensively; and computers are either connected to electrical outlets or giant batteries. In Grignon’s area of embedded software, the hardware is fixed. Code that is too big won’t run. Meanwhile, a tiny battery — which might power a laptop for a couple of minutes — needs enough juice to last all day. When work on the iPhone began at the end of 2004, Grignon had a perfect set of skills to become one of the early engineers on the project.
那时，由于在Pixo的工作经历，格里尼翁已是除了视频会议之外，另外两个方面的主要专家：他既精通计算机无线信号传输（Wi-Fi和蓝牙），也熟悉诸如手机等小型手持设备的内运行的软件。格里尼翁进入了一个完全不同的世界，这个世界与硅谷里大多数软件工程所在的有很大差别。大多数软件工程师不用考虑他们写的代码，是否占用了过多的硬盘空间，是否会超过芯片的运算能力。台式机和笔记本电脑的硬件都很强大，可调整的空间很大，而且便宜；内存、硬盘甚至处理器升级起来都不贵；而且机器要么连在外接电源上，要么配有巨大的电池。但是在格里尼翁的嵌入式软件领域，硬件是固定的。如果代码太庞大，则无法运行。而且，一块只能支持笔记本电脑运行两分钟的微型电池，需要能支持设备运行一整天。当2004年底，iPhone项目开始时，格里尼翁具备的一套完美技能，使他成为项目组中最初的几位工程师之一。
Now, in 2007, he was emotionally exhausted. He’d gained 50 pounds. He’d put stress on his marriage. The iPhone team discovered early on that making a phone didn’t resemble building computers or iPods at all. “It was very dramatic,” Grignon says. “It had been drilled into everyone’s head that this was the next big thing to come out of Apple. So you put all these supersmart people with huge egos into very tight, confined quarters, with that kind of pressure, and crazy stuff starts to happen.”
到了2007年，他在精神上已经很疲倦了。他的体重增加了50磅，而且工作上的压力也影响到他的婚姻。iPhone项目组很早就发现，制造一部手机跟制造电脑或iPod完全不同。格里尼翁说，“这个过程充满了戏剧性。一种理念被灌输到所有人的脑袋里：这将是苹果的下一个重大突破。为此，你把那么多超级聪明、又极度自负的人放在一些非常紧凑有限的工作环境中，再给他们那么大的压力，疯狂的事情会开始发生的。”
Remarkably, Jobs had to be talked into having Apple build a phone at all. It had been a topic of conversation among his inner circle almost from the moment Apple introduced the iPod in 2001. The conceptual reasoning was obvious: consumers would rather not carry two or three devices for e-mail, phone calls and music if they could carry one. But every time Jobs and his executives examined the idea in detail, it seemed like a suicide mission. Phone chips and bandwidth were too slow for anyone to want to surf the Internet and download music or video over a cellphone connection. E-mail was a fine function to add to a phone, but Research in Motion’s BlackBerry was fast locking up that market.
很难想象，乔布斯是被人说服之后，才让苹果制造iPhone的。手机的话题，几乎自苹果公司2001年刚刚推出iPod以来，就一直在乔布斯的小圈子中展开。概念上的道理很简单：如果有这种选择的话，消费者肯定愿意只携带一个设备，而不是同时携带两三个设备，就能够发邮件，打电话和听音乐。然而，每当乔布斯和他的高管们仔细研究这个主意的时候，他们都觉得这是一个自杀式的任务。手机的芯片和带宽都不够强大，如果有人想靠手机网络来浏览网页、下载音乐或视频，速度都会太慢。给手机增加收发邮件的功能倒是不错，可惜RIM公司的黑莓手机已经迅速占据了这个市场。
Above all, Jobs didn’t want to partner with any of the wireless carriers. Back then the carriers expected to dominate any partnership with a phone maker, and because they controlled the network, they got their way. Jobs, a famed control freak, couldn’t imagine doing their bidding. Apple considered buying Motorola in 2003, but executives quickly concluded it would be too big an acquisition for the company then. (The two companies collaborated unsuccessfully a couple of years later.)
而根本原因是，乔布斯不愿意跟任何无线网络运营商合作。那时，网络运营商跟手机制造商合作时，网络运营商总希望获得控制权，而且因为他们控制着网络，所以他们总能如愿以偿。但乔布斯是一个出了名的控制狂，很难想象他会屈从于运营商。2003年，苹果考虑过是否收购摩托罗拉，但是高管们很快得出结论，认为当时苹果的规模还不足以应付这起大并购。（几年之后，这两家公司进行了合作，但并不成功。）
But by the fall of 2004, doing business with the carriers was starting to seem less onerous. Sprint was beginning to sell its wireless bandwidth wholesale. This meant that by buying and reselling bandwidth from Sprint, Apple could become its own wireless carrier — what’s known as a “mobile virtual network operator.” Apple could build a phone and barely have to deal with the carriers at all. Disney, on whose board Jobs sat, was already in discussions with Sprint about just such a deal to provide its own wireless service. Jobs was asking a lot of questions about whether Apple should pursue one as well. The deal Apple ultimately signed with Cingular (later acquired by AT&T) in 2006 took more than a year to hammer out, but it would prove easy compared to what Apple went through just to build the device.
但是到了2004年秋，跟运营商打交道的事情开始看起来不再那么难了。运营商斯普林特(Sprint)开始批发出售其无线带宽。意味着苹果可以通过从斯普林特批发购买并转售带宽的方式，成为自己的无线网络运营商，这就是所谓的“移动虚拟网络运营商”。苹果可以制造手机，而几乎完全不需要跟运营商打交道。迪士尼公司已经开始跟斯普林特讨论这种让迪士尼开展自己的无线业务的交易，乔布斯是迪士尼董事会成员。乔布斯对苹果公司是否也应该这样做提出了很多问题。苹果公司最终在2006年跟辛格乐（Cingular，后来该公司被AT&T收购）签订的协议，经过了一年多的谈判；谈判虽然艰难，但与苹果制造手机的过程相比，那可是小巫见大巫了。
Many executives and engineers, riding high from their success with the iPod, assumed a phone would be like building a small Macintosh. Instead, Apple designed and built not one but three different early versions of the iPhone in 2005 and 2006. One person who worked on the project thinks Apple then made six fully working prototypes of the device it ultimately sold — each with its own set of hardware, software and design tweaks. Some on the team ended up so burned out that they left the company shortly after the first phone hit store shelves. “It was like the first moon mission,” says Tony Fadell, a key executive on the project. (He started his own company, Nest, in 2010.) “I’m used to a certain level of unknowns in a project, but there were so many new things here that it was just staggering.”
许多管理者和工程师因为iPod的成功而感觉颇为良好，他们以为制造手机就像是制造一台小型的麦金塔(Macintosh)电脑。然而，在2005和2006年期间，苹果设计并制造的iPhone早期版本不只是一款，而是多达三款。据一位曾参加项目的人称，苹果当时制造了6部其最终出售设备的原型机，这些原型机都具有全部功能，但各自有自己的一系列硬件、软件和设计上的调整。项目组的一些员工在iPhone面世后不久就离开了公司，因为他们实在是精疲力尽了。托尼·法德尔(Tony Fadell)是iPhone项目组的一名核心管理人员，2010年，他创办了自己的公司Nest，他说，“那就好像是首次登月的计划，虽然我已经习惯了项目中存在一定程度的未知因素，但是iPhone项目中的新东西太多，整个项目一直是跌跌撞撞的。”
Jobs wanted the iPhone to run a modified version of OS X, the software that comes with every Mac. But no one had ever put a gigantic program like OS X on a phone chip before. The software would have to be a tenth its usual size. Millions of lines of code would have to be stripped out or rewritten, and engineers would have to simulate chip speed and battery drain because actual chips weren’t available until 2006.
乔布斯想让iPhone运行一个修改过的OS X版本，每台Mac都配置OS X操作系统。但是，过去从来没有人尝试过在手机芯片上运行OS X这样的庞大程序。要实现这个目标，就必须把OS X操作系统缩小到现在的十分之一那么大。数百万行的代码需要被删除或重写，而且工程师们必须模拟手机芯片的速度和电池消耗，因为实际的芯片直到2006年才生产出来。
No one had ever put a multitouch screen in a mainstream consumer product before, either. Capacitive touch technology — a “touch” by either a finger or other conductive object completes a circuit — had been around since the 1960s. Capacitive multitouch, in which two or more fingers can be used and independently recognized, was vastly more complicated. Research into it began in the mid-1980s. It was well known, though, that to build the touch-screen Apple put on the iPhone and produce it in volume was a challenge few had the money or guts to take on. The next steps — to embed the technology invisibly in a piece of glass, to make it smart enough to display a virtual keyboard with autocorrect and to make it sophisticated enough to reliably manipulate photos or Web pages on that screen — made it hugely expensive even to produce a working prototype. Few production lines had experience manufacturing multitouch screens. The touch-screens in consumer electronics had typically been pressure-sensitive ones that users pushed with a finger or a stylus. (The PalmPilot and its successors like the Palm Treo were popular expressions of this technology.) Even if multitouch iPhone screens had been easy to make, it wasn’t at all clear to Apple’s executive team that the features they enabled, like on-screen keyboards and “tap to zoom,” were enhancements that consumers wanted.
而且在此之前，没有任何一款主流家用产品采用过多点触控屏幕。电容触控技术——通过一个手指或者其他导电物体的“接触”来完成电流回路的技术——早在1960年代就已经出现。但是电容多点触控技术，也就是两个以上手指同时使用，并且能够被独立识别，则要复杂得多。对于后者的研究1980年代中期就开始了。但是，制造出苹果配置在iPhone上的那种触摸屏幕并批量生产，是一个几乎没人有财力或胆量去尝试的挑战。接下来的步骤是，把这个技术无形地融合到一块玻璃上，使其具有展现出一块虚拟键盘、并具有自动修正打字的足够智能，同时使其足够的精密，能让人可靠地在屏幕上控制照片和网页，这些都使成本变得极为昂贵，哪怕只制造一部工程机。也很少有生产线具备生产多点触控屏幕的经验。家用电子产品使用的触摸屏通常都是对压力敏感的那种，需要用户用手指或触针来施压。（采用这种技术的畅销产品包括了掌上电脑PalmPilot，及其后继产品Palm Treo。）就算iPhone使用的多点触控屏幕很容易生产，苹果的管理团队也完全没有把握说，他们提供的这些新功能，包括虚拟键盘和“点击放大”等等，正是消费者所需要的改进。
As early as 2003, a handful of Apple engineers had figured out how to put multitouch technology in a tablet. “The story was that Steve wanted a device that he could use to read e-mail while on the toilet — that was the extent of the product spec,” says Joshua Strickon, one of the earliest engineers on that project. “But you couldn’t build a device with enough battery life to take out of the house, and you couldn’t get a chip with enough graphics capability to make it useful. We spent a lot of time trying to figure out just what to do.” Before joining Apple in 2003, Strickon had built a multitouch device for his master’s thesis at M.I.T. But given the lack of consensus at Apple about what to do with the prototypes he and his fellow engineers developed, he says, he left the company in 2004 thinking it wasn’t going to do anything with that technology.
早在2003年，苹果的几位工程师就找到了将多点触控技术应用到平板电脑上的方法。约书亚·斯特里肯(Joshua Strickon)是那个项目组最初的几名工程师之一。他说，“故事是这样的，史蒂夫想要一台能让他坐在马桶上时能看电子邮件的设备，这就是对产品规格的要求。但我们并不能制造出一台拥有足够电池容量的设备，让你能走出家门使用，也没有图像处理能力足够强大的芯片，让它真正好用。仅仅试图搞清楚究竟怎么做，就让我们花了很多时间。”斯特里肯在2003年加入苹果公司之前，曾在麻省理工学院为写他的硕士论文，制造出了一款多点触控设备。但是，由于苹果公司内部对他和他的同事制造出来的原型机缺乏共识，他于2004年离开了苹果，当时他觉得公司不会用那项技术来干点什么。
Tim Bucher, one of Apple’s top executives at the time and the company’s biggest multitouch proponent, says part of the problem was that the prototypes they were building used software, OS X, that was designed to be used with a mouse, not a finger. “We were using 10- or 12-inch screens with Mac-mini-like guts . . . and then you would launch these demos that would do the different multitouch gestures. One demo was a keyboard application that would rise from the bottom — very much what ended up shipping in the iPhone two years later. But it wasn’t very pretty. It was very much wires, chewing gum and baling wire.”
当时，蒂姆·布舍尔(Tim Bucher)是苹果的高层管理者之一，也是公司内部对多点触控技术最大的支持者。他说，部分问题在于他们制作的这些原型机使用的是OS X操作系统，但这个系统是为鼠标而不是手指设计的。他说，“我们用的像是迷你款Mac内核的工程机，配上10到12英寸的屏幕……然后你可以演示不同的多点触控动作。其中一个演示是一款键盘应用，键盘会从屏幕底部弹出——两年之后iPhone基本采用了这一设计。但当时那一点也不美观。有很多电线，口香糖和打包钢丝。”
Few even thought about making touch-screen technology the centerpiece of a new kind of phone until Jobs started really pushing the idea in mid-2005. “He said: ‘Tony, come over here. Here’s something we’re working on. What do you think? Do you think we could make a phone out of this?’ ” Fadell says, referring to a demo Jobs was playing with. “It was huge. It filled the room. There was a projector mounted on the ceiling, and it would project the Mac screen onto this surface that was maybe three or four feet square. Then you could touch the Mac screen and move things around and draw on it.” Fadell was aware of the touch-screen prototype, but not in great detail, because it was a Mac product, and he ran the iPod division. “So we all sat down and had a serious discussion about it — about what could be done.”
乔布斯从2005年中开始全力推动这个想法之前，很少有人想到把触摸屏技术作为一种新手机的核心。法德尔说，“有一天，乔布斯说，‘法德尔，你过来一下。我们现在在研究这个玩意。你怎么看？你觉得我们可不可以用这个制造一款手机？’”当时乔布斯正在玩一个触屏演示机。“那个机子很大，足足装满了一个房间。天花板上挂着一个投影仪，将Mac的屏幕投射一个三四个平方英尺大的平面上。然后你可以触摸Mac的屏幕，把上面的东西移来移去，在上面作画。”法德尔在这之前已经知道有这种触摸屏的原型机，不过不了解很多细节；因为那是个Mac产品，而他隶属于iPod部门。“所以我们坐了下来，开始严肃认真地讨论——究竟有什么是可以做的。”
Fadell had strong doubts about shrinking such an enormous prototype so much and then manufacturing it. But he also knew better than to say no to Steve Jobs. He was one of Apple’s superstars, having joined the company in 2001 as a consultant to help build the first iPod, and he didn’t get there by being timid in the face of thorny technological problems. By 2005, with iPod sales exploding, he had become, at 36, arguably the single most important line executive at the company.
对于把这个巨大的原型机缩小那么多并批量生产，法德尔满腹怀疑。不过他知道，绝对不能对乔布斯说不。法德尔是苹果公司的超级红人，2001年以顾问身份加入公司，参与制造了第一代iPod，他登上目前的位置靠的可不是在棘手技术难题面前缩手缩脚。2005年，iPod的销量激增，他以36岁的年龄，成了可能是公司中最重要的产品线的主管。
“I understood how it could be done,” Fadell says. “But it’s one thing to think that, and another to take a room full of special, one-off gear and make a million phone-size versions of that in a cost-effective, reliable manner.” The to-do list was exhausting just to think about. “You had to go to LCD vendors who knew how to embed technology like this in glass; you had to find time on their line; and then you had to come up with compensation and calibrating algorithms to keep the pixel electronics from generating all kinds of noise in the touch-screen” — which sat on top of the LCD. “It was a whole project just to make the touch-screen device. We tried two or three ways of actually making the touch-screen until we could make one in enough volume that would work.”
法德尔说，“我知道该怎么做那个东西，不过想是一回事儿，真正把满屋子的很特殊且一次性专门制造的部件，变成一款量产百万的手机大小的东西，同时要以有成本效益和稳定性能的方式生产，那又是另外一回事儿了。”需要做的事儿的清单之长，光想想就足以让人筋疲力尽了。“你必须去找那些知道如何将这种技术嵌入玻璃的液晶显示屏生产商；还要在他们的生产线上的争取到时间；你还必须开发出补偿和校准的算法，来控制电子像素，避免在触摸屏上产生各种各样的噪点”，这个触摸屏覆盖在液晶显示屏之上。“仅仅是制造触摸屏，就是一个大的项目。我们尝试了两三种生产触摸屏的实际方法，直到我们找到了能够批量生产的那种。”
Shrinking OS X and building a multitouch screen, while innovative and difficult, were at least within the skills Apple had already mastered as a corporation. No one was better equipped to rethink OS X’s design. Apple knew LCD manufacturers because it put an LCD in every laptop and iPod. Mobile-phone physics was an entirely new field, however, and it took those working on the iPhone into 2006 to realize how little they knew. Apple built testing rooms and equipment to test the iPhone’s antenna. It created models of human heads, with viscous stuff inside to approximate the density of human brains, to help measure the radiation that users might be exposed to from using the phone. One senior executive believes that more than $150 million was spent creating the first iPhone.
简化OS X操作系统，以及制造多点触控屏幕，这些任务虽说既创新又艰难，但还算是苹果作为一个公司已经具备的技能。没有任何一家公司比苹果更适合对OS X操作系统进行重新设计了。苹果对液晶屏的生产商也很了解，因为它为每一台便携电脑和iPod都配置了液晶屏幕。但是，手机的物理学(mobile-phone physics)对苹果来说，则是全新的领域，直到2006年，参与iPhone项目的人才意识到自己知道的实在太少了。苹果建造了测试室和专用设备，以测试iPhone的天线。公司制作了人头模型，里面装满了黏性物质，目的是模拟人类大脑的密度，这是为了测量手机使用者会受到多大的辐射。一位高级管理者猜测，制造第一台iPhone花了1.5亿美元以上的费用。
From the start of the project, Jobs hoped that he would be able to develop a touch-screen iPhone running OS X similar to what he ended up unveiling. But in 2005 he had no idea how long that would take. So Apple’s first iPhone looked very much like the joke slide Jobs put up when introducing the real iPhone — an iPod with an old-fashioned rotary dial on it. The prototype really was an iPod with a phone radio that used the iPod click wheel as a dialer. “It was an easy way to get to market, but it was not cool like the devices we have today,” Grignon says.
从项目伊始，乔布斯就希望能开发出一款运行OS X操作系统的触摸屏iPhone；这跟他最后展示的非常相似。但是在2005年，他对那将需要多少时间毫无概念。所以，苹果的第一款iPhone，跟乔布斯在介绍正式的iPhone时所展示的一张搞笑幻灯片非常相似：一个iPod，外带一个老式电话的旋转拨号盘。最早的原型机的确就是一个配置了无线电话信号的iPod，它用iPod棘轮作为拨号器。格里尼翁说，“那是制造上市产品的简易方法，但跟我们现在用的iPhone相比，就要土气多了。”
The second iPhone prototype in early 2006 was much closer to what Jobs would ultimately introduce. It incorporated a touch-screen and OS X, but it was made entirely of brushed aluminum. Jobs and Jonathan Ive, Apple’s design chief, were exceedingly proud of it. But because neither of them was an expert in the physics of radio waves, they didn’t realize they created a beautiful brick. Radio waves don’t travel through metal well. “I and Rubén Caballero” — Apple’s antenna expert — “had to go up to the boardroom and explain to Steve and Ive that you cannot put radio waves through metal,” says Phil Kearney, an engineer who left Apple in 2008. “And it was not an easy explanation. Most of the designers are artists. The last science class they took was in eighth grade. But they have a lot of power at Apple. So they ask, ‘Why can’t we just make a little seam for the radio waves to escape through?’ And you have to explain to them why you just can’t.”
2006年初，第二个iPhone原形机诞生了，它跟乔布斯最后推出的手机要相似得多。这个机型配备了触摸屏，装载了OS X操作系统，但它完全是用拉丝铝制造。乔布斯，以及苹果的首席设计师乔纳森·艾维(Jonathan Ive)都对此感到相当自豪。但是他们两个人都不是无线电波物理学方面的专家，他们没有意识到他们创造出来的其实不过是一块漂亮的砖头。无线电波不容易穿越金属。2008年离开了苹果公司的工程师菲尔·科尔尼(Phil Kearney)说，“我跟鲁本·卡巴雷尔罗(Rubén Caballero)”——此人是苹果公司的天线专家——“不得不到董事会上，向史蒂夫和艾维解释，我们没有办法让无线电穿越金属。做这个解释挺不容易的。绝大多数设计师都是艺术家。他们基本上八年级之后没上过任何科学课程。但是他们在苹果公司的权力很大。所以他们会问，‘那么我们为什么不留出一个小缝隙，好让无线电波通过？’所以你不得不跟他们解释为什么那样行不通。”
Jon Rubinstein, Apple’s top hardware executive at the time, says there were even long discussions about how big the phone would be. “I was actually pushing to do two sizes — to have a regular iPhone and an iPhone mini like we had with the iPod. I thought one could be a smartphone and one could be a dumber phone. But we never got any traction on the small one, and in order to do one of these projects, you really need to put all your wood behind one arrow.”
乔·鲁宾斯坦(Jon Rubinstein)当时在苹果是硬件方面的最高负责人，他说，当时还有许多有关这款手机的尺寸应该多大的漫长讨论。他说，“我当时其实想要做出两种型号——一种是正常的iPhone，另一种是像迷你iPod那样的迷你iPhone。我当时想，一款可以作为智能手机，另一款相比之下算是傻瓜手机。但是我们在那个小型手机上没能走多远。为了做好项目中的一个，你都必须将所有的资源都投入进去。”
The iPhone project was so complex that it occasionally threatened to derail the entire corporation. Many top engineers in the company were being sucked into the project, forcing slowdowns in the timetables of other work. Had the iPhone been a dud or not gotten off the ground at all, Apple would have had no other big products ready to announce for a long time. And worse, according to a top executive on the project, the company’s leading engineers, frustrated by failure, would have left Apple.
iPhone项目如此复杂，以至于出现过危及整个公司的情况。公司里许多顶尖工程师都被拉入这个项目，其他工作的进展只能放缓。如果iPhone最后打了哑炮，或者根本就没有做出来，那么在很长的一段时间里，苹果将无法推出其他重要的新产品。按项目组里一位高层管理者的说法，公司里的精英工程师可能会因为失败而产生挫败感，从而选择离开苹果，那样的话，局面就会更糟。
Compounding all the technical challenges, Jobs’s obsession with secrecy meant that even as they were exhausted by 80-hour workweeks, the few hundred engineers and designers working on the iPhone couldn’t talk about it to anyone else. If Apple found out you’d told a friend in a bar, or even your spouse, you could be fired. In some cases, before a manager could ask you to join the project, you had to sign a nondisclosure agreement in his office. Then, after he told you what the project was, you had to sign another document confirming that you had indeed signed the NDA and would tell no one. “We put a sign on over the front door of the purple dorm” — the iPhone building — “that said ‘fight club,’ because the first rule of fight club is you don’t talk about fight club,” Scott Forstall, Apple’s senior vice president of iOS software until last October, testified in 2012 during the Apple v. Samsung trial. “Steve didn’t want to hire anyone from outside of Apple to work on the user interface, but he told me I could hire anyone in the company,” Forstall said. “So I’d bring them into my office, sit them down and tell them: ‘You are a superstar in your current role. I have another project that I want you to consider. I can’t tell you what it is. All I can say is that you will have to give up nights and weekends and that you will work harder than you have ever worked in your life.”
所有这些技术挑战还不够，乔布斯对保密的极端追求，意味着加入iPhone项目组的数百名工程师和设计师们，尽管他们因每周工作80小时而精疲力尽，却不能通过和外人谈论项目来换换心，这无疑让任务变得更加沉重。如果苹果公司发现你在酒吧里跟朋友谈论了项目的事情，甚至只是跟配偶说起，你可能被解雇。在有些情况下，经理甚至会在邀请你加入项目组之前，就要求你在他的办公室里签一份保密协议。在他告诉你是什么项目之后，你必须再签署另外一份文件，确认之前签署过保密协议，且不会向任何人泄密。斯考特·佛斯塔尔(Scott Forstall)曾是苹果负责iOS软件的高级副总裁，他于去年10月离职。2012年，在苹果诉三星一案(Apple v. Samsung)的庭审中，他出庭作证时说，“我们在紫色宿舍(purple dorm)”——也就是iPhone项目组所在的建筑——“前门放了“搏击俱乐部(fight club)”的标示牌，因为搏击俱乐部的首要规则就是，不能跟任何人谈起这家搏击俱乐部。佛斯塔尔说，“史蒂夫不想从苹果外部招任何人来做用户界面，但是他告诉我，我可以从公司内部调任何人过来。于是，我会把潜在候选人带进我的办公室，请他们坐下来，告诉他们：‘你在现在的岗位上可以算是超级明星。我希望你能考虑一下，加入另外一个项目。我现在不能告诉你究竟是什么项目。我现在只能说，为了这个新项目，你必须放弃晚上和周末的休息，而且你要比你这辈子中最努力工作的时候还要努力地工作。”
One of the early iPhone engineers says, “My favorite part was what all the vendors said the day after the unveiling.” Big companies like Marvell, which made the Wi-Fi radio chip, and CSR, which provided the Bluetooth radio chip, hadn’t been told they were going to be in a new phone. They thought they were going to be in a new iPod. “We actually had fake schematics and fake industrial designs,” the engineer says. Grignon says that Apple even went as far as to impersonate employees of another company when they traveled, especially to Cingular. “The whole thing was you didn’t want the receptionist or whoever happens to be walking by to see all the badges lying out” with Apple’s name on them.
其中一位很早就参与到iPhone项目的工程师说，“我这段经历中最得意的部分是发布会的第二天，所有供应商说的那些话。”苹果没有告知那些公司，他们的配件将要用在一款全新的手机上，比方说制造Wi-Fi射频芯片的美满电子科技(Marvell)，以及制造蓝牙射频芯片的CSR公司。这些公司以为，他们制造的配件将被装入一款新的iPod。上述工程师说，“我们给他们看的是假原理图和假工业设计。”格里尼翁说，苹果公司保密到什么程度？员工出差时，甚至会冒充为另外一家公司的员工，尤其是到辛格乐出差的时候。他说，“这么做的目的，是为了不要让前台接待员，或者某位正好路过的人，看到写有苹果公司名称的胸牌摆在那里。”
One of the most obvious manifestations of Jobs’s obsession with secrecy were the locked-down areas on the company’s campus — places that those not working on the iPhone could no longer go. “Steve loved this stuff,” Grignon says. “He loved to set up division. But it was a big ‘[expletive] you’ to the people who couldn’t get in. Everyone knows who the rock stars are in a company, and when you start to see them all slowly get plucked out of your area and put in a big room behind glass doors that you don’t have access to, it feels bad.”
最能体现乔布斯痴迷保密的是，苹果公司园区里上了锁的区域——这是没有参与到iPhone项目组的员工不得进入的地方。格里尼翁说，“史蒂夫就喜欢搞这一套，他喜欢设立分区。但是对于没有权限进入的人来说，这种举动是一个极大的‘【脏话】’。每个人都知道谁是公司里的明星，当你开始看到他们一个接一个地从你工作的区域被挖走，被分配到玻璃门后面的大房间工作，而你没有权限进入，那个感觉真是太糟了。”
Even people within the project itself couldn’t talk to one another. Engineers designing the electronics weren’t allowed to see the software. When they needed software to test the electronics, they were given proxy code, not the real thing. If you were working on the software, you used a simulator to test hardware performance.
即使是项目组内部的人，也不能相互交流。负责设计电子器件的工程师不允许看到软件。当他们需要软件测试电子器件的时候，上面会给他们模拟代码(proxy code)，而不是真正的代码。如果你在软件组工作，你需要用一台模拟机来测试硬件性能。
And no one outside Jobs’s inner circle was allowed into Jonathan Ive’s wing on the first floor of Building 2. The security surrounding Ive’s prototypes was so tight that some employees believed the badge reader called security if you tried to enter and weren’t authorized. “It was weird, because it wasn’t like you could avoid going by it. It was right off the lobby, behind a big metal door. Every now and then you’d see the door open and you’d try to look in and see, but you never tried to do more than that,” says an engineer whose first job out of college was working on the iPhone. Forstall said during his testimony that some labs required you to “badge in” four times.
而且，除了乔布斯的一个内部小圈子外，其他人没有资格进入2号大厦一层专属于乔纳森·艾维的一翼。艾维的工程机受到了非常严密的保护，一些员工甚至认为，如果你试着刷卡进入但是之前没有授权的话，读卡器就会招来保安人员。有一位工程师，大学毕业后的第一份工作就是去研制iPhone，他说，“那非常诡异，因为你想避开经过那个地方还不怎么容易呢。那个区域就在公司门厅的旁边，在一扇大铁门后面。你经常会看到那扇大门打开，所以你可能想试着往里面看一眼，但是你从来不会做出比那再多的动作。”佛斯塔尔在法庭作证时说，有的实验室甚至需要你四次“刷卡”才能进入。
The pressure to meet Jobs’s deadlines was so intense that normal discussions quickly devolved into shouting matches. Exhausted engineers quit their jobs — then came back to work a few days later once they had slept a little. Forstall’s chief of staff, Kim Vorrath, once slammed her office door so hard it got stuck and locked her in, and co-workers took more than an hour to get her out. “We were all standing there watching it,” Grignon says. “Part of it was funny. But it was also one of those moments where you step back and realize how [expletive] it all is.”
为了按期完成乔布斯的布置的任务，员工们的压力非常之大，以至于本来平常的讨论很快会演变成争吵。一些精疲力尽的工程师辞了职，不过他们补充了睡眠之后，过几天又回到了公司。佛斯塔尔的办公室主任叫金·沃尔拉茨(Kim Vorrath)。有一次，沃尔拉茨生气摔门时用力过猛，结果门被卡住了，她被反锁在里面。同事们花了一个多小时才把她解救出来。格里尼翁说，“我们当时都站在旁边看。那部分地有点好笑。但它是一个这样的时刻，待你退一步，回过头来再看，你会意识到它是个多么（脏话）的情形。”
When Jobs started talking about the iPhone on Jan. 9, 2007, he said, “This is a day I have been looking forward to for two and a half years.” Then he regaled the audience with myriad tales about why consumers hated their cellphones. Then he solved all their problems — definitively.
2007年1月9日，当乔布斯开始介绍iPhone的时候，他说，“这一天我已经期待了两年半。”然后，他给听众讲了一大堆故事，都是有关消费者为什么讨厌他们手中的移动电话的，大家听得不亦乐乎。再后，他宣告解决了他们所有的问题——的的确确地解决了。
As Grignon and others from Apple sat nervously in the audience, Jobs had the iPhone play some music and a movie clip to show off the phone’s beautiful screen. He made a phone call to show off the phone’s reinvented address book and voice mail. He sent a text and an e-mail, showing how easy it was to type on the phone’s touch-screen keyboard. He scrolled through a bunch of photos, showing how simple pinches and spreads of two fingers could make the pictures smaller or bigger. He navigated The New York Times’s and Amazon’s Web sites to show that the iPhone’s Internet browser was as good as the one on his computer. He found a Starbucks with Google Maps — and called the number from the stage — to show how it was impossible to get lost with an iPhone.
就在格里尼翁和其他苹果同事们紧张地坐在观众席里的时候，乔布斯开始让iPhone播放了一些音乐和一段视频，这是为了炫耀这台手机的优美屏幕。他拨打了一个电话，是为了炫耀这部电话重新设计的通信录和语音信箱。他发送了一条短信和一封电子邮件，演示了用这台手机的触摸屏键盘打字如何地容易。他让一系列照片滚动而过，演示了用两个手指的拉进或远离就能够让照片缩小或放大。他浏览了《纽约时报》和亚马逊的网站，演示iPhone上的网络浏览器跟他自己电脑上的一样好用。他还用谷歌地图找到了一家星巴克咖啡店——而且直接从舞台上拨了个电话过去——用以演示，只要有iPhone，迷失方向就成了不可能发生的事情。
By the end, Grignon wasn’t just relieved; he was drunk. He’d brought a flask of Scotch to calm his nerves. “And so there we were in the fifth row or something — engineers, managers, all of us — doing shots of Scotch after every segment of the demo. There were about five or six of us, and after each piece of the demo, the person who was responsible for that portion did a shot. When the finale came — and it worked along with everything before it, we all just drained the flask. It was the best demo any of us had ever seen. And the rest of the day turned out to be just a [expletive] for the entire iPhone team. We just spent the entire rest of the day drinking in the city. It was just a mess, but it was great.”
演示进入最后时刻时，格里尼翁不只是如释重负，他简直就酩酊大醉了。为了稳定自己的情绪，他带来了一瓶苏格兰威士忌。他说，“当时我们坐在第五排或者附近——工程师，经理，所有人——每一部分演示结束后，我们就喝几口威士忌。我们一共有五六个人，每一项功能演示过后，负责那个功能的人就要喝上一口。等到最后的终场演示来临时——那也像之前所有演示那样很成功，我们就把那瓶威士忌喝了个精光。那是我们有史以来所看过的最精彩的演示。而且，那天的后半部分也成了整个iPhone项目组最（脏话）的一天。我们把那天剩下的全部时间都花在在城里喝酒上。那真是一塌糊涂，不过感觉好极了。”