TOKYO — The 20-somethings in jeans sipping espresso and tapping on laptops at this Tokyo business incubator would look more at home in Silicon Valley than in Japan, where for years the surest signs of success were the gray suits of its corporate salarymen. But for those hoping the nation’s latest economic plan will drag Japan from its long malaise, the young men and women here at Samurai Startup Island represent a crucial component: a revival of entrepreneurship.
东京——在这座东京企业孵化器里，这群20来岁、身着牛仔裤、抿着意式咖啡敲击笔记本电脑的年轻人可能更适合待在硅谷，而不是日本，多年以来，身着灰色西装的公司上班族，才是日本最可靠的成功标志。不过，对于那些希望能通过最新经济计划让国家摆脱长时间低迷的人而言，武士创业岛（Samurai Startup Island，简称SSI）里的年轻男女代表了一个关键的因素，那就是创业的复苏。
The signs of that comeback are still new, and tentative enough that the statistics on start-ups and initial public offerings have not caught up. But analysts and investors report that hundreds of new Internet and technology-related companies have sprung up in the last two to three years, creating an ecosystem of incubators like Samurai Startup Island and so-called accelerator new venture investment funds, which invest in early-state start-ups in hopes of cashing in.
创业回归的迹象是刚刚出现的，有很强的试探性，以至于对初创企业和首次公开募股的统计还没有跟上。不过，分析师和投资人表示，过去的两三年间，日本已涌现了数百家新创立的互联网公司和相关的科技公司，创造了一个创业生态系统，其中有SSI这样的孵化器，还有被称为加速器的新型风投基金，通过投资初期阶段的创业公司以图渔利。
Some top universities — the same ones that have long defined success as a job in an established company or elite government ministry — have begun not only to create their own incubators and venture funds, but also to develop curriculums on birthing start-ups. And while some young entrepreneurs say real progress will come only if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe acts as promised to shake up Japan’s hidebound corporate culture, they say the stock market rally and broader optimism created by the economic plan known as Abenomics are already making it easier to find investors and customers.
一些一流学府不仅已经开始创立自己的孵化器和创业基金，还设立了关于孵化初创企业的课程——长期以来，同样是这些学府在把成功定义为到知名公司、或精英云集的政府部门谋得一份工作。一些年轻的创业者说，如果首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)不履行承诺，打破日本死板的企业文化，真正的进展是不会到来的，虽然如此，他们表示，被称为安倍经济学(Abenomics)的经济计划带来了股市的上扬和更广泛的乐观情绪，这些变化已经让他们在找投资人和客户时变得容易起来了。
“This is the beginning of something that could rejuvenate Japan,” said Mitsuru Izumo, the founder of Euglena Corporation, a biotechnology start-up valued at $1 billion, and one of the country’s most prominent new entrepreneurs. “If we don’t unleash our youth, then Japan will become too weak to survive another blow like Fukushima. Entrepreneurship is Japan’s last chance.”
尤绿那株式会社(Euglena Corporation)创始人出云充(Mitsuru Izumo)说，“这是一场能振兴日本的转变的开始。如果我们不释放我们的青年，那么日本会变得孱弱无力，如果再次发生类似福岛核灾难那样的打击，日本甚至都没法生存下来。创业是日本最后的机会。”尤绿那株式会社是一家估值10亿美元（约合61.3亿元人民币）的生物科技创业公司。
For years, sagging entrepreneurial spirit has been cited as a major reason for Japan’s inability to save itself from a devastating deflationary spiral. The nation that produced Sony, Toyota and Honda has created few successors.
多年以来，创业精神的萎靡一直被认为是日本无力挣脱灾难性通缩漩涡的一个主要原因。曾产生过索尼(Sony) 、丰田(Toyota)和本田(Honda)的国家，几乎已经后继无人。
Although Japan has a long tradition of entrepreneurship in blue-collar trades like manufacturing, it has had only limited success in extending that to more knowledge-based industries like software or computing, at the forefront of the digital age and where competitors like South Korea have sped ahead.
日本在制造业等蓝领行业有着悠久的创业史，然而身处数字时代的前沿，当日本把这种传统推广到更以知识为基础的软件行业或计算机行业时，却只取得了有限的成功，而韩国等竞争对手已经加速赶到了前头。
A decade ago, under then-Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi’s effort to revive the economy, Japan appeared for a time to embrace young entrepreneurs. But the resurgence was mostly snuffed out when the most prominent of these newcomers, a brash young Internet mogul named Takafumi Horie who roared around Tokyo in Ferraris, was imprisoned for securities fraud. For other young entrepreneurs, his guilt or innocence was not the story. They saw his downfall as a cautionary tale of how Japan’s graying establishment would crush those who challenged its rules.
十年前，在时任首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)振兴经济的举措下，日本似乎一度对年轻的创业者敞开了怀抱。然而在这些新人中最杰出的创业者因为证券诈骗罪被送入监狱后，初创企业的复兴基本上就被扼杀了，这名创业者叫堀江贵文(Takafumi Horie)，是一名年轻气盛、开着法拉利在东京四处招摇的互联网新贵。对其他青年创业者而言，他是有罪还是无辜不是事件的关键。他们把他的身败名裂视作一则警示寓言，表明了日本日渐老化的体制是如何把挑战其统治的人碾个粉碎的。
The Samurai Startup Island, in a low-rent office district built on a landfill on Tokyo Bay, is at the vanguard of what many hope is a new generation of innovators, and a world apart from Japan’s highly conformist corporate world. The most prominent of several start-up incubators that have sprung up in Tokyo, it offers a variety of services, including free legal advice, cheap office space, espresso machines and bunk beds for all-nighters.
SSI位于东京湾一个在垃圾填埋场上建起来的廉租办公区内，是很多人寄望的新一代创新者中的先锋队，和极其循规蹈矩的日本企业界有着天壤之别。作为东京涌现的几家初创企业孵化器中最知名的一家，SSI会提供多种服务，包括免费的法律咨询、廉价的办公空间、意式咖啡机，还为熬夜的人提供双层床。
Having grown up immersed in an online world that stretches beyond national borders, young Japanese appear more willing to draw inspiration from foreign role models like Steve Jobs, the founder of Apple. And having seen Sony cede market share to South Korea’s Samsung, many no longer share their salarymen fathers’ belief in the permanence of established corporations or lifetime jobs.
年轻一代日本人生在一个淹没了国境线的互联网世界里，似乎更乐意从苹果(Apple)创始人史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)等外国楷模身上获得启发。许多年轻人目睹了索尼向韩国三星割让市场份额的一幕，不再认同他们曾是工薪一族的父辈们一生待在知名公司、或是一辈子做一份工作的理念。
“In a world where everything is risky, it’s better to be your own boss, in charge of your own destiny,” said Yoshinori Fukushima, 25, whose year-old Internet company has grown to 14 employees.
25岁的福岛良典(Yoshinori Fukushima)说，“在一个万事皆有风险的世界，你最好自己当老板，掌握自己的命运。”他的公司刚创立一年，员工人数已经增长到了14人。
While seeking a master’s degree in software engineering, Mr. Fukushima founded his company, Gunosy, to sell an app he wrote that analyzes social media pages to find news stories of potential interest to users. He says he turned down job offers at established firms before starting his business.
在攻读软件工程学硕士学位期间，福岛良典创建了自己的公司Gunosy，销售自己编写的一个应用软件，该软件能通过分析社交媒体网页，找出用户可能感兴趣的新闻报道。他说，在开始创立企业之前，他拒绝了多家知名公司提供的职位。
Others were driven by the fear of becoming yet another “lost generation” like people who came of age during Japan’s long downturn in the 1990s and 2000s, when a dearth of new jobs and opportunities left many young people underemployed or unemployed, and downwardly mobile.
也有一些创业人士则是因为担心自己会像上世纪90年代到2000年头十年之间成年的日本人一样，成为又一个“失落的一代”，当时日本经历了长期的经济衰退，新的就业岗位和就业机会极度匮乏，许多年轻人无法充分就业、或者失了业，只能向下层流动。
“Japan has said enough to being depressed, time to unleash our animal spirits,” said Robert Eberhart, a professor of management at Santa Clara University in California who has studied start-ups in Japan and Silicon Valley. “Now, I think there is more excitement about entrepreneurship in Japan than in the U.S.”
对日本和硅谷初创企业进行过研究的圣克拉拉大学(Santa Clara University)管理学教授罗伯特·埃伯哈特(Robert Eberhart)说，“日本已经受够了经济萧条，是时候释放我们的动物野性了。我认为现在日本涌现的创业激情还要甚于美国。”
Some warn that Japan has a way to go to become a hotbed of break-the-boundaries venture behavior. Noriyuki Takahashi, who specializes in entrepreneurship at Tokyo’s Musashi University, pointed to comparative global surveys that place Japan at the bottom among leading Western and Asian economies in social acceptance of entrepreneurs.
一些人告诫，要想成为一个鼓励颠覆性冒险行为的地方，日本还有一段路要走。东京武藏大学(Musashi University)从事创业研究的高桥德行(Noriyuki Takahashi)援引了一些比较性全球调查来证实这一点，在根据西方和亚洲主要经济体对创业者的社会接纳度进行的排名中，日本排在了末位。
For Silicon Valley-style venture capitalism to truly flourish, he and others said, deep-seated prejudices against entrepreneurs — who are seen as too greedy or self-promoting in a culture that abhors displays of unrestrained ego — must be overcome. The biggest hurdle is the stigma placed on entrepreneurship by the downfall of Mr. Horie, they said.
高桥德行等人表示，要想让硅谷式的风险投资真正得到繁荣发展，就必须克服对创业者根深蒂固的偏见——在一种对无拘无束的自我展现心存厌恶的文化里，创业者会被认为过分贪婪或自吹自擂。高桥德行等人说，最大的障碍是堀江贵文身败名裂给创业精神留下的污名。
“Horie gave entrepreneurship a negative image, as something too greedy,” said the enthusiastic Mr. Izumo, who was sporting a bright green necktie. “Young entrepreneurs are out to change that mind-set.”
“堀江贵文给创业带来一种负面形象，使它成了某种过于贪婪的东西。年轻的创业者试图改变这种观念，”打着鲜绿色领结的出云充热情地说。
Perhaps the greatest sign of change is the number of elite university graduates — the type who can still get high-level corporate jobs if they want — among start-up founders. Mr. Izumo and Mr. Fukushima, the Internet entrepreneur, are graduates of the University of Tokyo, among Japan’s top colleges.
也许，最明显的变化标志是初创企业创始人中出现的名牌大学毕业生的人数——如果他们愿意，他们依然能在企业里获得高级别的职位。出云充和互联网创业者福岛良典都是日本一流学府东京大学(University of Tokyo)的毕业生。
The university says 25 companies are being incubated in what it calls its “entrepreneur plaza.” And Tokyo’s prestigious Waseda University, which this year introduced a program for supporting start-ups, says it has already produced five new businesses.
东京大学表示，被校方称为“创业者广场”的孵化器正在孵化25家初创企业。东京鼎鼎大名的早稻田大学(Waseda University)表示，该校已经孕育了五家新企业，今年，早稻田大学推出了支持初创企业的项目。
Those numbers might seem small, said Shigeo Kagami, a business professor who helps run the University of Tokyo incubator, “but the fact this is happening at all is a big chance for Japan. “
协助运作东京大学孵化器项目的商学教授各务茂夫(Shigeo Kagami)表示，这些数字也许看起来较小，“然而，这种趋势的出现，本身就是日本的一大机会。”
“As Steve Jobs showed,” he said, “it only takes one or two success stories to change the world.”
他说，“正如史蒂夫·乔布斯让我们看到的，要改变世界，只需一两个成功故事。”