If Steve Jobs were alive today, should he be in jail?
如果史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)现在还活着，他应该被关进监狱吗？
That’s the provocative question being debated in antitrust circles in the wake of revelations that Mr. Jobs, the co-founder of Apple, who is deeply revered in Silicon Valley, was the driving force in a conspiracy to prevent competitors from poaching employees. Mr. Jobs seems never to have read, or may have chosen to ignore, the first paragraph of the Sherman Antitrust Act:
这个争议性问题正在反垄断圈子里辩论。在硅谷备受尊敬的苹果公司(Apple)联合创始人乔布斯，被曝曾是促成一项密约的主谋，该约定旨在防止员工被竞争者挖走。乔布斯似乎从来没有读过，或是故意无视《谢尔曼反托拉斯法》(Sherman Antitrust Act)的第一段：
Every “conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce” is illegal, the act says. “Every person who shall make any contract or engage in any combination or conspiracy hereby declared to be illegal shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine” or “by imprisonment not exceeding three years, or by both said punishments.”
该法称，任何“限制贸易或商业的共谋”均属非法。“每个签订任何非法契约或参与任何非法联合或共谋的人都应被视为犯了重罪，在被定罪后，应该处以罚款”或“处三年以下监禁，或者同时接受这两种惩罚”。
Mr. Jobs “was a walking antitrust violation,” said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa College of Law and an expert in antitrust law. “I’m simply astounded by the risks he seemed willing to take.”
乔布斯是“违反反托拉斯法的活生生的例子，”艾奥瓦大学(University of Iowa)法学教授、反垄断法专家赫伯特·赫芬坎姆(Herbert Hovenkamp)说。“我对他愿意承担这种风险深感吃惊。”
The anti-poaching pact was hardly Mr. Jobs’s only post-mortem brush with the law. His behavior was at the center of an e-book price-fixing conspiracy with major publishers. After a lengthy trial, a federal judge ruled last summer that “Apple played a central role in facilitating and executing that conspiracy.” (Apple has appealed the decision. The publishers all settled the case.)
防止挖人的协定并非乔布斯生前唯一违反法律规定的地方。他还在与几个大出版商合谋操纵电子书价格中发挥了中心作用。经过漫长的审判，一名联邦法官去年夏天判定“在促进和执行这项共谋的过程中，苹果扮演了主要角色”。（苹果已对该裁决提起上诉。涉案出版商均选择了和解。）
Mr. Jobs also figured prominently in the options backdating scandal that rocked Silicon Valley eight years ago. Thousands of options were backdated at both Apple and the computer animation studio Pixar, where Mr. Jobs was also chief executive, to increase the value of option grants to senior employees. An investigation by Apple’s lawyers cleared Mr. Jobs of wrongdoing, saying he didn’t understand the accounting implications. But it concluded that he “was aware or recommended the selection of some favorable grant dates.” Mr. Jobs himself received options on 7.5 million shares, which were backdated to immediately bolster their value by over $20 million. Apple admitted that the minutes of the October board meeting where the grant was supposedly approved were fabricated, that no such meeting had occurred and that the options were actually granted in December.
在八年前震惊硅谷的股票期权倒签丑闻中，乔布斯也是关键人物。苹果和电脑动画工作室皮克斯(Pixar)——乔布斯当时也是这家公司的首席执行官——数千份的期权存在倒签问题，其目的在于增加高级员工持有的期权价值。苹果律师的内部调查认为，乔布斯本人不存在违法行为，称他不理解这样做的后果。但是调查表示，他“知晓或是建议选择某些有利的授予日期”。乔布斯自己获得了750万股期权，倒签之后，它们的价值立即跃升了2000多万美元。董事会号称在10月举行会议授予期权，苹果承认那场会议的备忘录是伪造的。实际上，苹果并没有召开这样一次会议，而期权其实是12月授予的。
Five executives of other companies went to prison for backdating options, but Mr. Jobs was never charged. (Other Apple executives eventually settled Securities and Exchange Commission charges and left the company. The commission did praise Apple itself for its “swift, extensive and extraordinary cooperation.”)
其他公司的五名高管因为倒签入狱，而乔布斯却从未受到指控。（其他苹果高管后来也与证券交易委员会[Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC]达成了和解，离开了公司。SEC还曾称赞苹果“进行了快速、广泛、出色的合作”。）
Despite the strict language of the Sherman Act, the Justice Department tends to file criminal antitrust charges only in the most egregious cases, and by that standard, Mr. Jobs would probably never have been charged. Still, Mr. Jobs’s conduct is a reminder that the difference between genius and potentially criminal behavior can be a fine line. Mr. Jobs “always believed that the rules that applied to ordinary people didn’t apply to him,” Walter Isaacson, author of the best-selling biography “Steve Jobs,” told me this week. “That was Steve’s genius but also his oddness. He believed he could bend the laws of physics and distort reality. That allowed him to do some amazing things, but also led him to push the envelope.”
虽然《谢尔曼反托拉斯法》规定严格，但是司法部往往只会对特别突出的恶性案件提出反垄断刑事指控。根据这个标准，乔布斯可能永远不会受到指控。但是，乔布斯的行为提醒人们，天才和潜在犯罪行为之间的差距有时会非常细微。乔布斯“一贯认为适用于一般人的规则不适用于他”，畅销书《乔布斯传》(Steve Jobs)的作者沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)本周告诉我。“这既表明了史蒂夫的过人之处，也体现了他奇怪的地方。他认为他可以违背物理定律，扭曲现实。所以，他能够取得一些惊人的成就，但有时也会挑战界限。”
Brian Lam, a technology reporter and founder of The Wirecutter website, said that a few antitrust issues hadn’t dimmed Mr. Jobs’s luster in Silicon Valley. “His reputation is pretty much set in stone,” Mr. Lam said. Mr. Jobs “didn’t pay much attention to convention, and now more than ever, that’s the culture of tech companies.”
The Wirecutter网站的创始人、科技资讯报道人布莱恩·林(Brian Lam)认为，反垄断方面的几个问题没有影响到乔布斯在硅谷的光环。“他的名声差不多已经固化了，”林说。乔布斯“对常规不太在意，而现在，就是这种文化在科技企业中最盛行的时候。” 
Professor Hovenkamp characterized both the e-book agreements and the anti-poaching pact as “blatant restraints of trade.” Mr. Jobs, he said, “was so casual about it, so bold. Didn’t he have lawyers advising him? You see this kind of behavior sometimes in small, private or family-run companies, but almost never in large public companies like Apple.”
赫芬坎姆教授将苹果的电子书协议和防止挖墙脚的协定定性为“公然限制贸易”。他说，乔布斯“太随意了、太胆大妄为了。他不是有律师做顾问吗？有时候，人们会看到这种行为出现在小型私营公司或家族企业中，但几乎从未出现在像苹果这样的大型上市企业身上。”
Apple declined to comment.
苹果公司表示拒绝置评。
Mr. Jobs was certainly brazen. Testimony in the e-books case suggested that Mr. Jobs was eager, even frantic, to have an e-book agreement in place in time for his announcement of Apple’s latest product, the iPad. There’s no indication that any lawyers put the brakes on. (On the contrary, the chief architect of the scheme inside Apple was a lawyer.) In an email to James Murdoch, then an executive at News Corporation, which owned the publisher HarperCollins, Mr. Jobs offered what amounted to a classic case in price fixing: “Our proposal does set the upper limit for e-book retail pricing based on the hardcover price of each book” and urged HarperCollins to “throw in with Apple.”
乔布斯无疑是肆意妄为的。电子书一案的证词显示，乔布斯积极地、乃至疯狂地想要在苹果发布最新产品iPad之前及时达成电子书协议。没有看到任何律师有踩刹车的迹象。（正好相反，苹果内部设计这一计划的主谋就是一名律师。）在给新闻集团(News Corporation)——哈珀柯林斯出版社(HarperCollins)的母公司——当时的高管詹姆斯·默多克(James Murdoch)写的电子邮件中，乔布斯提出的意见简直是操纵价格的经典案例：“我们的提议的确是要基于每本书的精装版定价来设定电子书零售价的上限。”邮件中还敦促哈珀柯林斯“跟苹果一起”。
HarperCollins did, along with other major publishers. Judge Denise L. Cote of Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that “Apple is liable here for facilitating and encouraging the publisher defendants’ collective, illegal restraint of trade,” adding: “Through their conspiracy, they forced Amazon (and other resellers) to relinquish retail pricing authority and then they raised retail e-book prices. Those higher prices were not the result of regular market forces but of a scheme in which Apple was a full participant.”
哈珀柯林斯真的这么做了，还有其他几大出版商。纽约州南区的联邦地区法院法官丹尼丝·L·科特(Denise L. Cote)裁定，“在本案中，苹果负有协助并鼓励出版商被告从事集体性限制贸易的违法活动的责任”。法官还认为，“通过共谋，它们迫使亚马逊(Amazon)（及其他零售商）放弃零售定价权，然后它们抬高电子书的零售价。这种抬高的价格不是常规市场力量所为，而是出于苹果全面参与的一项密谋。”
Why were no criminal charges filed? The Justice Department’s antitrust division chief, William J. Baer, recently noted that the department had filed 339 criminal antitrust cases since President Obama took office, many of them on charges of price-fixing. The issue is, of course, moot with Mr. Jobs, who died in 2011. But his co-conspirators in the publishing industry may have benefited from the relative novelty of e-books. “There’s a traditional reluctance to go for criminal liability over novel practices,” Professor Hovenkamp said. “There was probably some thinking that with e-books, the technology was so new, and it was disruptive. It’s tough to prove mens rea,” or criminal state of mind.
那么，为何未能提出刑事指控呢？司法部反垄断部门的主管威廉·J·贝尔(William J. Baer)近期指出，自奥巴马执政以来，司法部已发起339宗反垄断刑事诉讼，其中不少涉及操纵价格的指控。当然，乔布斯已于2011年去世，他的反垄断问题也尚无定论。但他在出版业的共谋者可能已从电子书的相对新颖性中受益。“传统上，人们不愿追究新颖作法的刑事责任，”赫芬坎姆教授说。“可能有些观点认为，电子书技术太新了，会有颠覆性作用。很难证明是蓄意，”或者说有主观犯罪意识。
And there may have been political constraints, too. Although consumers were the beneficiaries of the case (and prices of e-books have dropped since the case was settled), publishers and their allies, including many authors, warned that the perverse result was to solidify Amazon’s dominance.
而且可能也存在政治制约。尽管消费者是本案（而且，自从案件和解后，电子书价格有所下降）的受益方，但出版商及其盟友，包括许多作家告诫，本案有悖常理的结果会巩固亚马逊的霸主地位。
The anti-poaching case may be taking a bigger toll on Mr. Jobs’s reputation, especially since he seemed so cavalier about people’s jobs. Mr. Jobs was again injudicious in his emails to competitors. In 2007, he threatened Palm Inc. with patent litigation unless Palm agreed not to recruit Apple employees, even though Palm’s then-chief executive, Edward Colligan, told him that such a plan was “likely illegal.”
防止挖人一事对乔布斯声誉的影响可能更大，尤其是因为他看上去对别人的工作非常不在意。在写给竞争对手的邮件中，乔布斯再次表现出了他的不慎重。2007年，他威胁Palm公司 ，除非对方同意不雇佣苹果的员工，否则便会提起专利诉讼，尽管Palm时任首席执行官的爱德华·科利根(Edward Colligan)告诉他，这种计划“可能违法”。
That same year, Mr. Jobs wrote Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google at the time, “I would be extremely pleased if Google would stop doing this,” referring to its efforts to recruit an Apple engineer. Mr. Schmidt forwarded the email, adding his own indiscreet comment: “I believe we have a policy of no recruiting from Apple and this is a direct inbound request. Can you get this stopped and let me know why this is happening? I will need to send a response back to Apple quickly so please let me know as soon as you can.”
同年，乔布斯给谷歌(Google)当时的首席执行官埃里克·E·施密特(Eric E. Schmidt)写邮件，“如果谷歌停止这么做，我会非常高兴。”他指的是谷歌试图雇佣苹果的一名工程师的行为。施密特转发了这封邮件，并加上了自己轻率的评论：“我记得我们是有不从苹果挖人的政策的，并且这是直接的内部要求。你能阻止此事，并且告诉我为什么会发生这种事吗？我需要很快给苹果回邮件，所以请尽快告诉我详情。”
When Mr. Jobs learned that the Google recruiter who contacted the Apple employee would be “fired within the hour,” he responded with a smiley face.
当乔布斯获悉谷歌那名联系苹果相关员工的招聘人员将“在一个小时之内被解雇”时，他回复了一个笑脸符号。
“How could anyone have approved that?” Professor Hovenkamp asked. “Any competent antitrust counsel would know that’s illegal. And they had to know they’d get caught eventually.”
“怎么会有人同意这么做？”赫芬坎姆教授问道，“任何一个能胜任的反垄断顾问都知道这是非法的。他们肯定明白，自己最终会被发现。”
Apple, Google and other technology companies reached an agreement with the Justice Department over the no-poaching practice in 2010, and agreed not to engage in any agreement or activity to reduce or prevent competition for employees. Last week, Apple and other technology companies settled a related class-action lawsuit, agreeing to pay $324 million.
2010年，苹果和谷歌等科技公司与司法部就防止挖人这一作法达成了协议，同意不参与任何减少或阻止争夺员工的协议或活动。上周，苹果等科技公司就一起与之有关的集体诉讼达成和解，同意支付3.24亿美元（约合20亿元人民币）。
There’s no way of knowing whether Mr. Jobs, had he lived and been healthy, would have faced charges, especially since he was a recidivist. Given Mr. Jobs’s immense popularity, prosecutors might not have wanted to risk a trial, Mr. Hovenkamp noted. Mr. Jobs probably came closest to being prosecuted in the backdating scandal, but by then he was already known to have pancreatic cancer.
我们无从知道，如果他还健在，乔布斯会不会面临指控，尤其因为他是一名惯犯。赫芬坎姆教授指出，考虑到乔布斯极高的人气，检方可能不愿冒险走到审判那一步。在期权倒签丑闻中，乔布斯是最有可能被提起公诉的，但那时，人们已经知道他患了胰腺癌。