The students are pitching.
学生们正在卖力推销。
On a spring afternoon at Michigan State University, 15 law students are presenting start-up proposals to a panel of legal scholars and entrepreneurs and an audience of fellow students. The end-of-semester event is one part seminar and one part “Shark Tank” reality show.
一个春日的午后，15位密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)法律系的学生正在向一个由法律学者和企业家组成的评委会及现场的学生观众演示他们的创业提案。这项期末活动既是一场研讨会，同时也兼具“鲨鱼缸”真人秀(Shark Tank)的特征。
The companies the students are describing would be very different from the mega-firms that many law students have traditionally aspired to work for, and to grow wealthy from. Instead, these young people are proposing businesses more nimble and offbeat: small, quick mammals scrambling underfoot in the land of dinosaurs.
这些学生正在描述的公司迥异于许多法律专业学生传统上非常向往、希望从中获取高薪报酬的巨型企业。相反，这些年轻人打算创立的，是一些更加灵活、更加标新立异的企业，是一些爬行在恐龙脚下，动若脱兔的小哺乳动物。
A few of them talk of outsourced services for larger law firms. Karen Francis-McWhite pitches one to help homesteaders claim properties for their own. Another would help immigrants file their taxes, an essential but frightening step to gaining citizenship. The tagline, delivered by its advocate, Giavanna Reeves: “Filing taxes should not make you feel blue when you’ve got a green card in line.”
有几位学生正在考虑为大型律师事务所提供外包服务。卡伦·弗朗西斯-麦克怀特(Karen Francis-McWhite)的想法是成立一家律师事务所，帮助自耕农给自己索取财产所有权。另一家则打算帮助移民报税。在申请国籍的过程中，这是一个极其重要，但令人恐惧的步骤。其倡导者乔凡娜·里维斯(Giavanna Reeves)还提出了一个宣传口号：“将得绿卡的你，不该为报税心情变蓝。”（"Blue"，蓝色，在英语中有心情郁闷之意——译注）
The Entrepreneurial Lawyering Startup Competition, a showcase of the university’s Reinvent Law Laboratory, is not an activity many practicing lawyers would recognize. But it might be the kind of broadened curriculum many of today’s students need.
“创业律师业初创比赛”(The Entrepreneurial Lawyering Startup Competition)，该所大学“改造法律实验室”(Reinvent Law Laboratory)的一个重要项目，并非一个很多执业律师有所耳闻的活动。但它可能是那种许多当今学生需要了解的拓展课程。
“Legal education has been stronger on tradition than innovation,” said Joan W. Howarth, dean of the Michigan State law school. “What we’re trying to do is educate lawyers for the future, not the past.”
“法律教育一向重传统而轻创新，”密歇根州立大学法学院院长琼·W·豪沃思(Joan W. Howarth)说。“我们正努力做到的是为未来培养律师，而不是为过去。”
Like a number of law schools looking to the future of a challenging profession, this school is pushing its students to understand business and technology so that they can advise entrepreneurs in coming fields. The school wants them to think of themselves as potential founders of start-ups as well, and to operate fluidly in a legal environment that is being transformed by technology.
就像许多预见到律师业将面临巨大挑战的法学院一样，这所学校正在督促学生们深刻理解商业和科技，从而为进军未来领域的创业者提供法律咨询。该校希望学生们也把自己视为潜在的创业者，将来也需要在一个正在被科技改变的法律环境下流畅地运营自己的企业。
Michigan State professors don’t just teach torts, contracts and the intricacies of constitutional law. They also delve into software and services that sift through thousands of cases to help predict whether a client’s case might be successful or what arguments could be most effective. They introduce their students to programs that search through mountains of depositions and filings, automating tasks like the dreary “document review” that was once the baptism of fire and boredom for young associates.
密歇根州立大学的教授不只教侵权、合同以及宪法的复杂细节。他们也深入到软件和法律服务之中，筛选出数千件案例，以预测某位客户的官司是否能够胜诉，或者哪些辩词可能最有效。他们引荐学生参加各类项目，让他们搜寻汗牛充栋的证词和案宗，把诸如“文档审阅”这类曾经被年轻律师们视为严峻考验的沉闷任务自动化。
One of the founders of the Reinvent Law Laboratory is Daniel Martin Katz, an associate professor with expertise in big data and powerful computing and their applications to legal studies. He hopes to give his students a leg up in a job market that seems increasingly bleak, and to help them become “T-shaped,” by which he means having deep knowledge — the downward swipe of the letter T — as well as a broadened set of abilities. So providing them with information on seemingly arcane subjects like data analytics can be a career builder. “Analytics plus law gets you into a niche,” he said. The program is partly funded by the Kauffman Foundation, which supports entrepreneurship education.
“改造法律实验室”的创始人之一丹尼尔·马丁·卡茨(Daniel Martin Katz)是一位擅长运用大数据、计算技术，及它们于法学研究方面的应用的副教授。他希望在这个似乎越来越惨淡的就业市场上助学生一臂之力，力图帮助他们成为“T形”人才，意指拥有深厚的造诣（字母T的那一竖）和全面的技能组合。所以，让他们学习数据分析这类看似神秘的学科，有可能帮助他们构筑起成功的职业生涯。“数据分析加法律专长，可以给你带来一份合适的工作，”他说。该项目的赞助人之一是以支持创业教育为宗旨的考夫曼基金会(Kauffman Foundation)。
With the marketplace shifting, schools have increasingly come under fire for being out of touch.
随着市场环境的改变，越来越多的人开始抨击法学院教学与实际脱节。
Catherine L. Carpenter, vice dean of Southwestern Law School in Los Angeles, tracks curriculum across the country. She said schools are trying to teach their students to run their own firms, to look for entrepreneurial opportunities by finding “gaps in the law or gaps in the delivery of services,” and to gain specialized knowledge that can help them counsel entrepreneurs.
洛杉矶西南法学院副院长凱瑟琳·L·卡彭特(Catherine L. Carpenter)追踪全国的课程。她说学校正试图教学生如何运营自己的事务所、通过找到“法律的空白或服务提供中的空白”来寻求创业良机，以及获取专业知识来助力他们为创业者提供咨询。
At Indiana University’s law school, Prof. William D. Henderson has been advocating a shake-up in legal education whose time may have come. “You have got to be in a lot of pain” before a school will change something as tradition-bound as legal training, he said, but pain is everywhere at the moment, and “that’s kind of our opening.” He advocates putting more technology and practical training into the curriculum to adapt to a field that is less about “expensive, artisan-trained lawyers” and more about providing legal services at lower cost.
印第安纳大学(Indiana University)法学院教授威廉·亨德森(William D. Henderson)一直倡导对法律教育实施大变革，他认为这个时代或许已经到来。在一所学校打算改变像法律培训这种深受传统约束的事物之前，“肯定会经受许多痛苦”，他说。但在当下，痛苦无处不在，“这多多少少是我们的一个机遇”。他主张把更多的科技和实践培训融入课程，以适应这样一个更加注重以更低成本提供法律服务，“收费昂贵、工匠式培训出身的律师”不再吃香的行业。
Bill Mooz, a visiting professor at the University of Colorado law school, has started a four-week summer boot camp called Tech Lawyer Accelerator to provide, as he put it, “all of the things they don’t teach you in law school and they don’t teach in law firms but which you need to be effective in today’s world.” Students are brought up to speed on tech tools designed to make legal services more efficient. They hear lectures from companies like Adobe and NetApp. After the four weeks, they spend the rest of the summer, or even the following semester, working directly for a company. Mr. Mooz calls the program “drinking from a fire hose.”
科罗拉多大学法学院客座教授比尔·姆兹(Bill Mooz)启动了一个名为“科技律师加速器”(Tech Lawyer Accelerator)的为期四周的夏季新手训练营，以提供——用他的话说——“所有那些法学院和律师事务所不会教给你的、却是让你在当今世界有效工作所必须的事情”。学生们被培养快速使用为使法律服务更高效而设计出的科技工具。他们聆听来自Adobe和NetApp这样的公司的讲座。四周后，他们将用暑假余下的时间，甚至接下来的一学期，为某个公司直接工作。姆兹把这个项目叫“从消防水带里饮水”。
At Northwestern Law, Daniel B. Rodriguez, the dean, is expanding clinical education while using faculty members with technical and business experience to instruct in “the law/business/technology interface.”
西北大学法学院(Northwestern Law)院长丹尼尔·罗德里格斯(Daniel B. Rodriguez)正在扩充该校的实践教学，同时使用具有科技和商业经验的教师“在法律/业务/技术界面下”进行指导。
Law school, he said, used to be a refuge for students who “might be math phobic, who don’t do numbers.” But the practice of law increasingly requires lawyers to understand the work and strategy of their clients, whether that means reading a spreadsheet or going even further.
他说，对于那些“可能有数学恐惧，不喜欢跟数字打交道”的学生来说，法学院曾经是一个不错的避难所。但法律实践越来越需要律师了解客户的工作和战略，这可能意味着要阅读电子表格，甚或更高的要求。
“That doesn’t mean you need to have a Ph.D. or a master’s degree in math to become a lawyer,” Mr. Rodriguez said. “It doesn’t actually kill you, but makes you stronger, to have a background in statistics.” And, he said, “Not to be too jargonistic, but big-data analytics have pervaded many aspects of the management world, and lawyers need to have some facility with that.”
“那不意味着你需要有一个数学博士或硕士学位才能当律师，”罗德里格斯说。“它其实不会杀死你，有统计学背景会让你更强大。”并且，他说，“不是我要卖弄行话，但是大数据已经渗透于管理学世界的很多方面了，律师们需要有一定处理它的能力。”
The Northwestern program stresses teamwork, though the lecture format is still a big part of the program. He noted, with a reference to the law school classic “The Paper Chase,” that “Kingsfield hasn’t gone away.”
西北大学的法学教育强调团队合作，尽管授课依然是一个重要组成部分。他援引讲述法学院生活的经典电影《力争上游》(The Paper Chase)的脚本，指出“金斯菲尔德教授还没有消失”。
These programs might be especially important for schools that aren’t in the top education tier, to combat the “very elitist” attitudes of the legal employment market, said Brian Z. Tamanaha, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis. “Will it be enough for them to pick the M.S.U. grad over the Michigan grad, to name a local competitor? That remains to be seen.”
这些项目或许对非处于顶尖行列的学校抗击法律就业市场的“非常顶尖”观念尤为重要，圣路易斯华盛顿大学法学教授布莱恩·Z·塔玛纳哈(Brian Z. Tamanaha)说道。“举一个本地竞争者的例子来说，这足以让他们挑选一个密歇根州立大学的毕业生，而不挑密歇根大学的毕业生吗？这还有待观察。”
Another skeptical law professor, Paul F. Campos of the University of Colorado, said he finds Michigan State’s approach “admirable” but declared himself amused by the focus on tech. “The irony here is that these new technologies are destroying traditional legal jobs!”
另一个持怀疑态度的法学教授，科罗拉多大学的保罗·F·坎波斯(Paul F. Campos)，说他认为密歇根州立大学的方法是“令人钦佩的”，但表示自己被其着重于科技逗乐了。“这里的讽刺意味是，这些新科技正在摧毁传统的法律工作！”
Mr. Campos’s blog, Inside the Law School Scam, was harshly critical of legal education. (He discontinued it last year, writing: “I’ve said what I have to say, at least in this format.”) Now, he says, “The fundamental problem remains that we’re putting out way, way too many lawyers — or, should I say, people with law degrees, given the number of entry-level jobs.”
坎波斯的博客《法学院的那些把戏》(Inside the Law School Scam)曾经对法学教育进行了严厉抨击。（这个博客去年停止更新，他写道，“我已经说了所有我必须要说的话，至少就这种格式而言。”）现在，他说：“基本问题依然是，我们培养了太多太多的律师。或者我应该说，鉴于入门级职位的数量如此稀少，现在拥有法律学位的人太多了。”
For the students at Michigan State, the opportunities outweigh the risks. While none are likely to become expert programmers, they believe their training will get them a job at firms that need someone who can communicate with the geek contractors.
对于密歇根州立大学的学生来说，机遇大于风险。虽然没有一个人有可能成为专业程序员，但他们相信，这些训练将帮助他们在那些需要有人与“极客”(geek)承包商沟通的事务所获得一份工作。
“This is the worst time in the history of legal education to go to law school,” said Patrick Ellis, a recent graduate. “I am not top of my class, not at a top-10 law school, but I’m confident I’m going to have a meaningful career because of this program.”
“在法学教育史上，目前是上法学院最糟糕的时刻，”刚毕业的大学生帕特里克·埃利斯(Patrick Ellis)说。“在这样一所排名不在前十的法学院，我不是班里最好的学生，但我相信，由于参加了这个项目，我将拥有一个很有意义的职业生涯。”
The winner of the start-up competition at Michigan State was Stand’n, a blend of social media’s friend-tracking features and apps to connect people and firms with legal services on short notice. The student behind the idea, Andrew Johnston, called it “kind of like an Uber for lawyers.”
一个名为Stand’n的创意最终在密歇根州立大学创业大赛中胜出。它融合了社交媒体的朋友追踪功能，以及能够在短时间内把人和法律服务公司连接在一起的应用软件。这个创意的提出者安德鲁·约翰斯顿(Andrew Johnston)表示，它就“像是打车应用Uber的律师版本”。