I’ve always thought about respect as common decency, something we should do because it’s simply the right thing to do. In the medical world, we certainly need to strive for respectful behavior, especially given our historically rigid pecking order, our ingrained traditions of hierarchical bullying and, of course, a primary constituency — patients — who are often on uniquely vulnerable footing.
我一直认为互相尊重是一种基本礼仪，人人都应遵守，只因这是件理所当然的事情。特别在我们的医疗行业里，死板的就诊程序历史悠久，等级欺压传统根深蒂固，而我们的服务对象——病人，经常处在一个脆弱的位置。我们就更应尽可能地礼貌待人。
But then I stumbled across two articles in Academic Medicine that talked about respect as an issue of patient safety. The authors, a group of doctors and researchers at Harvard Medical School, outlined the myriad acts of disrespect that we’ve come to accept as a way of life in medicine, and showed how these can lead to a final pathway of harm to our patients.This shift in perspective was a shock to the system. When we tolerate a culture of disrespect, we aren’t just being insensitive, or obtuse, or lazy, or enabling. We’re in fact violating the first commandment of medicine. How can we stand idly by when our casual acceptance of disrespect is causing the same harm to our patients as medication errors, surgical mistakes, handoff lapses and missed lab results?
但当我读到《医药学术》(Academic Medicine)中的两篇文章时，我的想法动摇了。这两篇文章的作者是哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)的一群医生和研究人员。他们强调：尊重与否事关病人安全。他们简要介绍了在医学领域中无数不尊重他人的行为，这些行为如何最终导致对病人的伤害，而我们对此早已熟视无睹。这个观点冲击了医疗系统。当我们容忍轻慢无礼的文化时，我们不仅仅是表现出了麻木、迟钝、懒惰或纵容。我们事实上已经违反了医学的第一戒律。当这种对无礼行为的随意接受已对病人造成伤害，而且严重性已经不亚于用药差错、手术差错、人员交接失误或检验差错等造成的伤害，我们如何还能袖手旁观？
At one end of the spectrum are the examples of disrespectful behavior, like the volatile doctor everyone knows to steer clear of. Then there are the sadly common abuses of hierarchy — the doctor denigrating a nurse, the medical student treated like disposable goods.
一方面，俯拾皆是不尊重他人的事例，比如人人避之不及、脾气火爆的医生。另一方面，令人扼腕的是，等级制度也经常被滥用。医生会呵斥护士，而医学生像随时丢弃的日用品一样被随意对待。
Beyond these are the even more widespread passive types of disrespect, the behaviors that don’t ever get reported and are hardly noticed because they are so ingrained in the culture of medicine. Dismissive attitudes — toward other members of the medical team, toward students, toward administrators, toward patients — are as corrosive as outward manifestations of disrespect.
除此之外，还有一些较隐蔽的无礼行为更加普遍。这些行为深植于医疗界的文化中，不会遭到投诉，也难以被察觉。有些医生对团队其他成员、学生、行政人员与病人的态度不屑一顾，这与其他明显表露的不尊重行为一样，在腐蚀着这个系统。
“Lack of respect poisons the well of collegiality and cooperation,” the authors of the articles wrote. The poisoning-of-the-well metaphor is apt. Like pornography, we know it when we see it. Ask a nurse or an intern or a medical student, and they can tell you with pinpoint accuracy which areas of the hospital are toxic to work in, and which are not. Now think of the patients who have the misfortune to be stuck in one of those toxic areas. It’s not just unpalatable; it’s unsafe.
“缺乏尊重无异于投入清泉中的毒药，侵蚀着团队的精诚合作，”文章的作者写道。“清泉中的毒药”这个比喻非常贴切。就像色情作品一样，只要我们看见它们，我们便能有所体会。随便问一个护士、实习大夫或医学生，他们会准确无误地告诉你，医院里哪些地方中毒已深不宜工作，哪些则无毒无害。再考虑一下那些不幸陷入毒药区域的病人。这不只是如鲠在喉的不适，这根本不安全。
Doctors have to take a good deal of the blame. For better or worse, we often set the tone in a medical enterprise. When we show, or tolerate, even subtle disrespect, it works its way all along the chain.
医生们需要对此负许多责任。通常，我们是为医药系统奠定氛围基调的人，无论这基调是好是坏。当我们做出无礼的行为，或者开始纵容这些行为，哪怕只是流露出微妙的无礼态度，都将影响到整个链条。
Luckily, the reverse is true. Having had the privilege of working under some of the most humane and respectful doctors, I have witnessed how everyday acts of decency and humility generate positive cascading effects toward other staff members and toward patients. Rising tides, in this case, can indeed lift all boats.
幸运的是，我们也能反向作用。在有幸与一些最善良与最受人尊敬的医生共事之后，我见证到，医生每日给予同僚及病人的尊重与谦卑，可以带来巨大的积极效应。在这种情况下，顺流，确实可以推动轻舟。
But these articles also make the point that disrespect comes from the medical system itself. When a hospital cuts its nursing staff to the bone, for example, it’s doing much more than cutting costs. It’s sending the message that nurses are interchangeable widgets whose productivity can be dialed up or down like household appliances.
但这些文章也指出了医疗系统自身对员工的不尊重。比如医院会大幅度削减护士职员数目，这种行为远比削减开支来得危害巨大。这传递出一种讯息：护士是医院里可替换的消费品，可以呼之即来，挥之即去。
This subtle disrespect can be seen in many areas: Overbooking doctors’ schedules. Piling on paperwork. Squeezing in additional responsibilities. Requiring ceaseless “compliance courses” that must be completed on personal time. The system functions because most medical professionals generally do what’s required of them to make it all work.
这种微妙的轻慢还表现在其他许多地方：给医生超量安排预约接诊，增加许多不必要的案头工作，安排额外的责任，要求医生在业余时间内完成长期的“必修课程”。因为大部分医学人员通常会接受院方安排，完成所有要求，这个系统得以如此长期运行。
Though these annoyances may seem trivial,  this lack of respect “undermines morale, and inhibits transparency and feedback,” the authors write. Morale, transparency and feedback are pillars of preventing medical error. Patients ultimately bear the brunt of this unhealthy atmosphere.
作者在文中写道，虽然这些麻烦事可能貌似无足轻重，但对医疗人员缺乏尊重，将“破坏士气、妨碍透明度和反馈机制”。士气、透明度和反馈是防止医疗差错的基石。而最终承担这种不健康氛围带来的冲击的，则是病人。
The solutions to a disrespectful environment are wide-ranging, and there’s no doubt that personal example, starting from the top of the hierarchy, is a powerful agent of change. Expectations of professional conduct need to be applied equally, without exemptions for the well-connected or the powerful. Confidential reporting systems for unprofessional behavior are crucial and need to be available to staff members as well as to patients and families.
要扭转这种轻慢的局面，方法有很多。毫无疑问，从等级制度最顶端树立个人榜样，将是一个有力的改变方法。我们应该对所有专业人员寄予同等的期望，那些有关系或有权势的个人并不应得到豁免。匿名举报不专业行为的机制很关键，所有员工、病人与家属都必须能够使用这项机制。
Added to the clarion call should be patient safety. The connection between disrespectful behavior to patient safety should be made explicit in our efforts, since this is a rallying point that everyone can agree on. Medical staff members should absolutely be holding ourselves to the highest bar of professional and respectful conduct. We have no excuses for anything less. But beyond this, the medical system needs to re-evaluate itself and the way it respects — or disrespects — its own workers, and by extension, its patients.  
此外，我们还应吹响号角，呼吁保障病人的安全。无礼行为与病人的安全息息相关，这一点并非众所周知，因此我们更应该全力传播。医疗工作者必须以最高的专业与尊重准则来要求自己，我们没有任何理由可以降低对自己的要求。除此之外，医疗系统也必须重新审视自身，同时检讨它是否对工作人员与病人表达了尊重。