More and more, my family and friends are asking for my help in finding a primary care doctor. That they would be having trouble finding one doesn't surprise me. We've all been reading warnings about an impending doctor shortage for several years now.
家人和朋友们正越来越频繁地托我寻找初级保健医生(primary care doctor)。我对他们难以找到这类医生的现象并不感到奇怪，这些年来，关于医生行将短缺的警告，大家一直都有所耳闻。
What is alarming to me is that there are no sure-fire solutions in place that will bail us all out in time.
然而令我担忧的是，目前还没有什么可靠的方案能让我们及时摆脱这一困境。
In the United States, we are now short approximately 9,000 primary care doctors. These are the general internists, family doctors, geriatricians and general pediatricians, the doctors responsible for diagnosing new illnesses, managing chronic ones, advocating preventive care and protecting wellness. And health care leaders predict that that deficit will worsen dramatically in the next 15 years. Specialties like general surgery, neurosurgery and emergency medicine will also become critically understaffed; but primary care will be hardest hit, with a shortfall of more than 65,000 doctors.
目前，美国初级保健医生的缺口大约在9000名左右。这些医生包括全科医生、家庭医生、老年病医生和普通儿科医生，以及负责新病诊断、慢性病管理、提供预防保健护理和健康保护的医生。医疗卫生官员预计，缺口在今后15年中将大幅度扩大。像普外科和神经外科以及急诊这样的专业科室也会出现严重的人手不足；但是初级保健医生是受影响最大的职业，其缺口将超过6.5万名。
While the demands from a growing and aging population and an influx of 40 million patients newly covered by insurance are considered the main drivers of this crisis, there is no shortage of issues on the physician supply side.
人们认为老龄人口的增加以及医保新覆盖的4000万名病人所带来的需求是造成这一危机的主要原因，不过医师供应不足也是问题的一大原因。
For starters, only 2 percent of all medical students in a recent study expressed interest in practicing primary care as a general internist. Most continue to flock to subspecialty fields like dermatology, anesthesiology, radiology and ophthalmology.
首先，最近的调查显示，只有2%的医学专业学生表示对成为全科医生并从事初级保健职业感兴趣。大多数学生仍继续涌向专科领域，例如皮肤病学、麻醉学、放射科医学和眼科医学。
And once trained, primary care practitioners are particularly vulnerable to burnout and more likely to leave clinical practice than doctors in subspecialties like cardiology or gastroenterology.
而且一旦完成培训，初级保健医师尤其容易对工作感到倦怠，而且他们随后离开临床实践的可能性要比心脏科和胃肠科等专科领域的医生更大。
It's like the patient is bleeding faster than we can transfuse.
这种情况就像面前有一个病人，而这个人失血的速度要比输血的速度更加快。
Experts have proposed several solutions to the doctor shortage. But for many worried patients and doctors, the best answer is seemingly the most obvious one: churn out more young doctors and funnel them into residency programs that train for primary care.
专家们已对医生短缺问题提出了多个解决方案。然而对于很多忧心忡忡的病人和医生来说，最佳答案似乎再明显不过了：培养更多的年轻医生，然后将他们塞进初级保健培训的住院医生计划。
Unfortunately, according to a new study published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, it's not that obvious.
不幸的是，《美国医学协会杂志》(The Journal of the American Medical Association)发表的一篇新的研究显示，答案并非如此简单。
Researchers asked more than 50,000 doctors training in internal medicine about their career plans. As expected, the majority of these young doctors planned on becoming subspecialists.
研究人员调查了5万多名接受了全科医学培训的医生，询问了他们的职业规划。与预期的一样，这些年轻医生大都希望成为专科医生。
What the researchers discovered, however, was that over the course of their training, almost half the young doctors who began wanting to become primary care doctors changed their minds, most deciding to pursue a subspecialty career instead. And by the time the three-year residency was finished, those numbers dwindled even further, with only one out of five indicating that they wanted to become primary care physicians.
然而，研究人员发现，在这些医生的训练过程中，有接近半数起初希望从事初级保健的年轻医生改变了他们的想法，其中大多数人决定转而学习专科领域。而且在三年的住院医培训结束之时，这个数字进一步减少，仅有1/5的人表示愿意成为初级保健医生。
Some of the young doctors surveyed were enrolled in a traditional training "track," which centers on inpatient and subspecialty care. But even a majority of those who pursued a primary care track, developed in the 1970s to encourage more doctors to choose primary care and which concentrates on medical work done in outpatient clinics, doctors' offices and other ambulatory settings, were planning to become subspecialists by the end of their training.
一些受调查的年轻医生选择的是专注于住院患者和专科医疗的传统培训“方向”。然而，大多数选择初级保健方向的人在培训结束之时也打算成为专科大夫。初级保健方向是20世纪70年代发展起来的，旨在鼓励更多的医生选择从事该领域，主要专注于在门诊、诊室以及其他医疗站的医务工作。
"The environment is such that even the primary care track training programs don't have a fighting chance," said lead author Dr. Colin P. West, an associate professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and associate program director of the internal medicine residency training program.
上述研究的主要作者科林·韦斯特博士(Dr. Colin P. West)说，“大环境就是这样，即便是初级保健方向培训项目也没有多大用武之地。”韦斯特博士是明尼苏达州罗切斯特的梅奥医学中心(Mayo Clinic)医学副教授，也是全科医学住院培训项目的项目副主任。
Much of the problem lies in what general practitioners have to look forward to. General practitioners work as many hours as, or more, than their subspecialty colleagues. Yet they have among the lowest reimbursement rates. They also shoulder disproportionate responsibility for the bureaucratic aspects of patient care, spending more time and money obtaining treatment authorization from insurance companies, navigating insurers' ever changing drug formularies and filling out health and disability forms. "All the paperwork," Dr. West said, "interferes with the patient-doctor relationship that drew them to general medicine in the first place and pushes trainees away from primary care unless they are remarkably committed to its goals."
主要问题在于全科医师所需面临的未来。与专科医生同事相比，全科医师的工作时间跟他们差不多，甚至要更多。然而他们的薪酬是医生中最低的。他们在病人医护繁冗的文书方面所承担了过多的责任，为了从保险公司方面获得治疗许可，他们花费了大量的时间和金钱。他们还得持续关注保险公司不断变化的处方药物表，并填写健康和残疾表格。韦斯特博士说：“各种案头工作干扰了学生们起初投身全科医学时所向往的医患关系，也让实习生对初级保健敬而远之，除非他们一心想要从事这一职业。”
But it is this subset of committed young doctors -- the one in five who still planned on a career in general medicine at the completion of their training -- that may help to provide the answer to the current primary care shortage. In this study, most were female, enrolled in primary care track programs and graduates of American.medical schools. Dr. West believes that understanding more about what attracted them to primary care, and why they remained committed, could help "make the entire field more attractive to more young doctors," he said.
但正是这一小批下定决心的年轻医生们——那1/5仍打算在培训结束时从事全科医生职业的人——可能会帮助找到解决目前初级保健医师短缺的答案。在这一研究当中，选择初级保健方向的大多是女性和美国医学院的毕业生。韦斯特博士认为应深入了解他们选择初级保健的初衷以及他们仍下定决心学习初级保健的原因，他说，这可以帮助“把整个领域变得更有吸引力，从而吸引更多的年轻医生”。
"If we go with the simplistic view that opening more medical schools and more training slots will give us more primary care doctors, we may get a few more, but we're mostly going to end up with more subspecialists," Dr. West said. "And even the few additional primary care internal medicine doctors will not do much to address the shortage."
韦斯特说，“有一个过于简单的观点认为，只要增设更多的医学院和更多的培训岗位，初级保健医师的数量就会增多，如果我们真这么做，初级保健医师的数量可能会增加一些，但是到头来却很有可能会造就更多的专科医生。然而，增加的少量的初级保健全科医学医生对于解决短缺问题来说只是杯水车薪。”
"The residents are voting with their feet," he added. "And they are telling us something really important."
他进一步说：“住院医生都在用脚投票。而这个现象说明了非常重要的问题。”