WASHINGTON — The Libyan government in recent weeks tacitly approved two American commando operations in its country, according to senior American officials, one to capture a senior militant from Al Qaeda and another to seize a militia leader suspected of carrying out the Sept. 11, 2012 attacks on the United States diplomatic mission in Benghazi.
华盛顿——美国高级官员表示，利比亚政府前几周默许美国突击队在利比亚采取两项行动。其中一项是为了擒获基地组织(Al Qaeda)的一名高层激进分子，另一项则是为了抓捕涉嫌于2012年9月11日对美国驻班加西外交使团发动袭击的民兵头目。
The Qaeda leader, Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, was captured by American commandos in Tripoli on Saturday in a raid that the United States had hoped to keep secret, but which leaked out to the media. The operation has been widely denounced by Libyan officials, who have called it a kidnapping and said they played no role in it.
上周六，美国突击队在的黎波里的突袭行动中抓获了基地组织领导人纳齐赫·阿卜杜勒-哈迈德·鲁盖(Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai)。美国本想对此次行动保密，但最终还是被媒体得知。行动遭到了利比亚官员的广泛谴责，后者将其称为绑架，并表示己方并未参与其中。
While American officials expected that the Libyan government would claim it knew nothing about the operation, news of the raid has raised concerns that the suspect in the Benghazi attacks, Ahmed Abu Khattala, has now been tipped off that the United States has the ability to conduct an operation in Libya.
虽然美国官方早就预料到利比亚政府会声称对此次行动毫不知情，但是，突袭的消息让外界担心，袭击班加西使团的嫌疑人艾哈迈德·阿布·哈塔拉(Ahmed Abu Khattala)现在已经知道，美国有能力在利比亚开展行动。
It is not clear why American military commanders did not conduct both operations simultaneously to avoid this problem. Some military commanders said conditions on the ground in Libya on Saturday may not have been opportune. But the backlash against a second raid could bring down the government of Prime Minister Ali Zeidan, which has teetered on the brink of collapse and has little control over vast parts of the country, particularly in the eastern part near Benghazi.
目前尚不清楚美军指挥官为何不同时开展两项行动来避免这一问题。一些军事指挥官称，利比亚当地周六的情况可能不太有利。但是，对第二轮突袭的抵制可能会使总理阿里·扎伊丹(Ali Zeidan)的政府倒台。该政权本已摇摇欲坠，而且对利比亚的大片疆土都没有多少控制力，尤其是班加西附近的东部地区。
George Little, the Defense Department spokesman, declined comment on Tuesday. American officials said that although the Libyans tacitly approved the Saturday raid, they did not play a role in the actual operation and were not told in advance when it was happening.
周二，美国国防部发言人乔治·利特尔(George Little)表示不予置评。另一些美国官员则称，尽管利比亚默许了周六的突袭行动，但他们并未参与实际行动，而且也没有提前得到何时行动的通知。
Combined with the Navy SEAL mission in Somalia that also took place on Saturday, and which failed to capture a top leader of the Shabab militant group, the operation in Tripoli signals that the Obama administration is willing to take risky missions to confront a spreading terrorist threat in Africa.
海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)也于上周六在索马里展开行动，但未能抓获激进组织青年党(Shabab)的一名最高领导人。两次行动共同表明，奥巴马政府甘愿冒险来应对非洲日益泛滥的恐怖主义威胁。
“Africa is one of the places,” Mr. Obama said at a news conference on Tuesday, “that you’re seeing some of these groups gather. And we’re going to have to continue to go after them.”
奥巴马在周二的新闻发布会上称，“非洲是此类组织的聚集地之一。我们准备将他们追踪到底。“
More than half a dozen American diplomatic, military, law enforcement, intelligence and other administration officials were contacted for this article, all of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the diplomatic delicacy of the matter and the prospect of future military operations.
本文采访了六名以上美国外交、军事、执法、情报等领域的奥巴马政府官员。由于此事涉及外交敏感性，再加上将来有采取军事行动的可能性，这些人均要求匿名。
The Libyans’ tacit approval is far more limited than the secret agreements the United States has had in recent years with the governments in Pakistan and Yemen. Under those arrangements, the United States has been given broader authority to carry out secret operations to kill militants, although Mr. Obama has since ordered those missions reined in.
相比近年来美国与巴基斯坦及也门政府的秘密协议，利比亚的默许非常有限。根据这些协议，美国在剿杀激进分子的秘密行动上拥有更宽泛的权限，虽然奥巴马后来下令对此类行动进行控制。
The American drone campaign in Pakistan has long been denounced publicly by Pakistani civilian government officials, although American officials claim that Pakistani military and intelligence services allowed it.
长期以来，巴基斯坦的文职政府官员一直公开批评美国在该国的无人机行动，尽管美国官员宣称，行动得到了巴基斯坦军方和情报机构的许可。
At a news conference in Bali on Monday, Secretary of State John Kerry said that the United States regularly consults with the Libyan government "on a range of security and counterterrorism issues,” but said he would not “get into the specifics of our communications with a foreign government or in any kind of operation of this kind."
本周一，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在巴厘岛的新闻发布会上称，美国会定期就“一系列安全和反恐问题”与利比亚政府进行磋商，但他“不会详细描述我们与外国政府的沟通，或者关于此类行动的任何讯息”。
Mr. Kerry said that the military operation to seize Mr. Ruqai was legal and that he hoped that the world understands that the United States “is going to do everything in its power that is legal and appropriate in order to enforce the law and protect our security.”
克里还称，抓捕鲁盖的军事行动是合法的，而且他希望全世界明白，“为了贯彻法律并保障我们的安全”，美国“将尽己所能地采取一切合法及适当的措施”。
After months of lobbying by American officials, the Libyans consented “some time ago” — weeks or perhaps even months — to the United States operations, according to a senior American official. The Libyans, however, were not told beforehand about the raid on Saturday.
一名美国高级官员称，经过美国官方几个月的游说，利比亚终于在“一段时间以前”——几周乃至数月——准许了美国的行动。然而，利比亚人却没有被提前告知周六的袭击。
The Libyans’ consent marks a significant step forward for the Obama administration, which has been criticized by Congressional Republicans for moving too slowly to apprehend the Benghazi suspects.
利比亚的许可表明，奥巴马政府取得了重大进展。共和党议员一直抨击奥巴马政府抓捕班加西事件嫌疑人的行动过于迟缓。
In August, it was revealed that the United States had filed murder charges against Mr. Khattala, a prominent militia leader in Benghazi, in connection with the Benghazi attacks. 
今年8月，有消息透露，美国已对班加西重要的民兵头目哈塔拉提出谋杀指控，理由是他与班加西袭击事件有关联。
If the United States attempts to apprehend Mr. Khattala, it will most likely do so again without much, if any, help from the Libyan government. Military planners consider a raid in eastern Libya, which is dominated by militias, far more dangerous than one in Tripoli.
如果美国试图擒获哈塔拉，很可能也不会从利比亚政府那里得到多少帮助，甚至会孤军作战。军事策划师正考虑对利比亚东部发动袭击，而该地区被民兵占据，要比在的黎波里行动危险得多。
Libyan lawmakers and local leaders across the political spectrum have vowed for months that their new government would never countenance Western military action on Libyan soil for any reason. Almost all say they still need evidence before concluding that any suspect in the Benghazi attack should be arrested or charged, and that in any event the case should be handled in a Libyan court — regardless of the feeble state of its legal system.
数月以来，利比亚各派的议员和地方政治领导人均宣称，他们的新政府绝不会因任何理由容许西方在利比亚的土地上采取军事行动。几乎所有人都说，在决定对班加西袭击事件的任何嫌疑人进行逮捕或提起诉讼前，他们还需要证据，而且不论如何，此案都应提交利比亚法院处理——不管该国的法律体系有多么脆弱。
Islamists, who make up a sizable portion of the militia leaders as well as of Libya’s transitional Parliament, often accuse Mr. Zeidan, who lived in Geneva as part of the exiled opposition to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, of collaborating too closely with the West or even flirting with the idea that the United Nations peacekeepers might prop up his government.
相当一部分民兵组织领导人和利比亚过渡国会成员都是伊斯兰主义者。他们经常指责，扎伊丹与西方的联系过于紧密，或是他竟然还想过，联合国的维和人员可能会为他的政府提供支持。扎伊丹曾作为反对穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)的流亡人士在日内瓦生活。
Mr. Zeidan, speaking to reporters in Rabat, Morocco, after meetings there on Tuesday, dismissed fears of any serious breach with the United States. “They helped us with our revolution," Mr. Zeidan said. "Our relationship will not be affected by this event, which we will settle in the way that we need to."
周二，当摩洛哥拉巴特的会议结束后，扎伊丹对记者表示，不用担心与美国的关系会遭到严重破坏。“他们帮我们进行了革命，”扎伊丹说。“我们的关系不会受到这件事的影响，我们将以必要的方式解决这一问题。”