TRIPOLI, Libya — A court in Libya on Tuesday sentenced a son of Moammar Gadhafi to death by firing squad after convicting him of murder and inciting genocide during the 2011 uprising.
利比亚的黎波里——利比亚的一个法庭周二裁决穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Moammar Gadhafi)之子在2011年起义中犯有谋杀罪和煽动种族灭绝罪，宣判他死刑，由行刑队执行枪决。
The Tripoli court that sentenced Seif al-Islam, who is being held by a militia that refuses to hand him over, also sentenced to death eight others, including former Libyan spy chief Abdullah al-Senoussi, who is in government custody.
赛义夫·伊斯拉姆(Seif al-Islam)被一个民兵组织控制，但他们拒绝将其交出。对伊斯拉姆做出宣判的的黎波里法庭同时判决其他八人死刑，其中包括了受政府拘禁的利比亚前情报机构负责人阿卜杜拉·塞努西(Abdullah al-Senoussi)。
It was unclear whether the sentences in the mass trial of 38 Gadhafi-era figures, only 29 of whom were present, would be carried out. Six others were sentenced to life in prison and four were cleared of charges.
38名卡扎菲时代人物只有29人出庭，对他们的集体判决是否会得到执行尚不清楚。另有六人被判处终身监禁，四人被判无罪。
U.S.-based Human Rights Watch said the trial was "undermined by serious due process violations," and called on the Supreme Court to independently review the verdict.
总部位于美国的人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称本次宣判“在法定诉讼程序上存在严重问题”，并呼吁最高法院独立审核该判决。
"This trial has been plagued by persistent, credible allegations of fair trial breaches that warrant independent and impartial judicial review," said Joe Stork, deputy Middle East and North Africa director. "The victims of the serious crimes committed during the 2011 uprising deserve justice, but that can only be delivered through fair and transparent proceedings."
“围绕着这次审判，一直存在有力的指责，称其并非公正审判，应该对其给予独立公正的司法调查，”中东和北非事务副主任乔·斯托克(Joe Stork)说。“2011年起义中严重违法犯罪行为的受害者们需要讨回公道，但这只有通过公正、透明的司法程序，才能实现。”
Libya has slid into chaos since the overthrow and killing of Gadhafi, who ruled the country for four decades. It is now bitterly divided between an elected parliament and government cornered in the country's east, with little power on the ground, and an Islamist militia-backed government in the west that has seized the capital, Tripoli.
自从统治利比亚长达40年的卡扎菲被推翻和杀死以后，利比亚就陷入了混乱。如今国家无奈地被一分为二，经选举产生的国会与政府被逼到了国家的东部，很难控制各地。而西边受伊斯兰派民兵支持的政府已经控制了国家首都的黎波里。
Since the end of the civil war, Seif al-Islam has been held by a militia in Zintan, which is allied with the Tobruk-based internationally recognized government against the Tripoli one. The court that convicted him is affiliated with the Tripoli-based government. He is also wanted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague on charges of crimes against humanity.
内战结束后，赛义夫·伊斯拉姆被一民兵组织关押在津坦(Zintan)，该组织是位于图卜鲁格受到国际认可的政府的盟友，与位于的黎波里的政府相抗衡。宣判伊斯拉姆的法庭则隶属于的黎波里政府。伊斯拉姆同时也因反人类罪，被海牙国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)通缉。
During the trial, Seif al-Islam was accused of recruiting mercenaries who were given Libyan nationality, planning and carrying out attacks on civilian targets from the air, forming armed groups and shooting into crowds of demonstrators. Among the charges he was convicted of were incitement of murder and rape.
在审判中，伊斯拉姆被控招募雇佣兵，为其发放利比亚国籍，策划实施空袭平民目标行动，组建武装组织，向示威人群开枪。其中罪名成立的包括煽动谋杀和强奸。
Hundreds of militias in Libya are battling for power and turf in a lawless environment has allowed human traffickers and kidnappers to flourish.
在利比亚，有数百个民兵组织为了权力和地盘战斗，这里的法律体系已经崩溃，导致人口贩卖和绑架案件数量大幅上升。
The U.N. envoy for Libya, meanwhile, has urged the Islamist-led government in Tripoli to sign a peace deal that would establish a unity government. Members of the Tobruk government and regional leaders signed the unity accord in Morocco on July 11.
同时，联合国利比亚特使呼吁位于的黎波里的伊斯兰派政府能尽快签署建立联合政府的和平条约。位于图卜鲁格的政府和地方领导人7月11日在摩洛哥签署了联合协议。