BAYDA, Libya — Fighters for one of the factions battling for control of Libya seized the Benghazi branch of the country's central bank Thursday — threatening to set off an armed scramble for the bank's vast stores of money and gold, and to cripple one of the last functioning institutions in the country.
利比亚贝达——一支试图争夺利比亚控制权的派系的士兵周四占领了利比亚中央银行班加西分行，并威胁要对银行的大笔现金和黄金储备发起武装掠夺，而这将使利比亚目前仅存的运转机构之一陷入瘫痪。
The central bank is the repository for Libya's oil revenue and holds nearly $100 billion in foreign currency reserves. It is the great prize at the center of the armed struggles that have raged here since the overthrow of Moammar Gadhafi in 2011. Western leaders had hoped that it might play a crucial role in helping to bring the rest of the country back together.
中央银行是利比亚石油收入的储备库，并拥有接近1000亿美元的外汇储备。在2011年穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲倒台后，它成为在利比亚肆虐的武装争斗中令人眼红的巨奖。西方领导人希望它能在国家重建中发挥关键作用。
Since Libyan rebel stoppled Gadhafi with the help of Western airstrikes, the country has slipped into chaos, as militias grounded in particular locations or ideologies have battled for turf, money and influence. Though the country has vast energy resources, people living in its cities now face daily electricity blackouts and shortages of staple products.
自利比亚叛军在西方空袭的帮助下推翻卡扎菲政权，利比亚陷入了混乱。民兵组织在地区基础上或围绕着意识形态形成，为领地、金钱和影响范围斗争。虽然利比亚拥有大量能源储备，生活在这个国家城市里的人们如今面临着日常供电的中断和生活必需品的短缺。
The central bank has been the main force sustaining a semblance of order in Libya. Its leaders have managed so far to stay above the factional fray, continuing to pay public employees' salaries and consumer subsidies all across the country. But in the process, the bank has also financed the budgets of the Interior and Defense Ministries, including salaries and supplies for thousands of fighters on all sides of the struggle.
中央银行成为维持利比亚表面秩序的主要力量。领导层目前还能设法悬架于派系争斗之上，继续在全国范围内支付公职人员薪水，发放消费者补贴。但是在这一过程中，央行也给内政和国防部门的预算提供了财政资助，其中包括数千名在各处斗争中的士兵的薪水和补给。
The bank's neutrality has come under increasing strain as the warring factions established rival national governments, one based in Tripoli in the west and the other in the eastern cities of Tobruk and Bayda. The central bank has two facilities, one in each side's home region.
交战派系建立了对抗性国家政权，一个在西部的的黎波里，另一个在东部的图卜鲁格和贝达。这让银行的中立性面临更大的压力。中央银行有两个分支机构，两边地区各有一个。
The Tobruk-Bayda government is under the de facto control of Gen. Khalifa Hifter. It has sought since October to replace the central bank's chairman, Sadik el-Kaber, and take control of the bank's assets. But Kaber has refused to resign, and has kept the bank's headquarters in Tripoli, the nominal capital, which is controlled by a rival coalition. The taking of the Benghazi branch by forces loyal to Hifter raised fears that the rival militias in Tripoli might seek to seize the bank's assets there.
图卜鲁格-贝达政府实际上在将军哈利法·哈福特(Gen. Khalifa Hifter)的控制之下。该政府自十月起便试图更换中央银行的主席西迪克·卡比尔(Sadik el-Kaber)，控制银行资产。但卡比尔拒绝辞职，保留银行在的黎波里的总部。的黎波里是名义上的首都，由敌对的联合政府控制。哈福特势力对班加西分行的占领，引起了有关的黎波里的民兵组织可能占领当地银行资产的担忧。