A Liberian doctor with Ebola who was given ZMapp — the same experimental drug given to two infected Americans — has died, officials said Monday.
官员周一透露，一名感染埃博拉病毒的利比里亚医生服用了试验药物ZMapp，但已经死亡。两名受感染的美国人也服用了相同的药物。
Dr. Abraham Borbor, deputy chief medical doctor at Liberia’s largest hospital, received one of the few existing doses of the drug, made by a San Diego company, The Associated Press said, quoting Liberia’s information minister.
美联社(The Associated Press)援引利比里亚信息部长的话报道，利比里亚最大医院的副首席医师亚伯拉罕·柏伯(Abraham Borbor)得到了圣迭戈一家公司生产的这种药物中，仅存不多的一些。
The two Americans who received ZMapp, both working for the charity Samaritan’s Purse, survived after treatment at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. When the two were released last week, their doctors said they did not know whether the drug — a cocktail of mouse antibodies grown in tobacco plants — had helped them, had no effect or perhaps even slowed their recoveries.
两名服用ZMapp的美国人都供职于慈善机构撒玛利亚救援会(Samaritan's Purse)，这两人在亚特兰大的埃默里大学医院(Emory University Hospital)接受治疗后活了下来。两人上周出院后，为他们进行治疗的医生表示，不知道这种药物是帮助了他们，还是没有效果，或者甚至延缓了康复。这种药物是在烟草植株中培育的老鼠抗体制备的“鸡尾酒”药物。
A Spanish priest who received one of the first six doses also died, but that was attributed in part to his age, 75.
一名西班牙神父得到了最初六剂药物中的一剂。之后这位神父也去世了，不过部分原因在于他75岁的年龄。
Also on Monday, it was confirmed that another Ebola outbreak is underway in a remote village in the northeast of the Democratic Republic of Congo. A Congolese government laboratory said it was of a different strain and not related to the West African outbreak, which is almost 3,000 miles away.
还是在周一，刚果民主共和国东北部一座偏远村庄，爆发了另一起埃博拉病毒疫情。该国政府的一家实验室透露，爆发的疫情属于一个不同的变种，与近3000英里以外的西非爆发的疫情无关。
A lab designated by the World Health Organization will test samples from the outbreak, which is in Equateur Province.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)指定的一家实验室将会检验这次疫情中提取的样本。此次疫情是在赤道省爆发的。
The Congo outbreak is known to have killed 13 people. The country — formerly Zaire — has had six outbreaks since the disease was discovered there in 1976 in a village near the Ebola River.
现在已知民主刚果爆发的疫情造成了13人死亡。这个国家旧称扎伊尔，自从1976年在民主刚果的埃博拉河(Ebola River)附近的一个村庄发现这种病毒以来，疫情已在该国爆发过六次。
Also on Monday, Nigeria reduced its Ebola case count to 13, from 14. One recent case was a false positive, the health minister said.
周一，尼日利亚将该国的埃博拉病例人数从14人减少到13人。卫生部长表示，最近的一个病例系假阳性。
A British nurse who contracted the disease in Sierra Leone was flown home Sunday night by the Royal Air Force and hospitalized in London.
一名在塞拉利昂感染病毒的英国护士周日晚间由英国皇家空军(Royal Air Force)接回英国，并在伦敦入院治疗。
More than 240 health care workers have fallen ill in this outbreak, the health organization said Monday, and half of them have died. In previous outbreaks, the organization said, deaths among medical workers have decreased rapidly once it is known that patients have Ebola and personal protection measures are taken.
此次疫情中，已有240名医疗工作者患病，世卫组织周一透露，其中半数已经死亡。该组织透露，在过去爆发的疫情中，在得知患者感染的是埃博拉病毒，并采取个人防护措施后，医护人员的死亡率会大幅降低。
As of last Friday’s W.H.O. update, 2,615 people in four countries had been infected and 1,427 had died.
世卫组织上周五发布的数据更新显示，已有四个国家的2615人感染，1427人死亡。
The nurse, William Pooley, 29, had been in Sierra Leone since March giving palliative care to patients dying of cancer and AIDS when Ebola began spreading there. He volunteered to work in Kenema Hospital, where 22 local health workers have died. The hospital has been described as a “death trap,” and Mr. Pooley worked long shifts among highly infectious patients in the isolation ward.
上述的29岁护士威廉·普利(William Pooley)自3月以来就在塞拉利昂，为即将因癌症或艾滋病而去世的患者提供安宁疗护，当时埃博拉病毒也开始在那里蔓延。他志愿前往凯内马医院(Kenema Hospital)工作。那所医院已经有22名当地医疗工作者去世，被人形容为“死亡陷阱”。普利在隔离病房里，在传染性很强的患者当中工作了很长时间。
The health organization also that an epidemiologist affiliated with one of its partner organizations had contracted Ebola in Sierra Leone.  Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the organization, said the victim was Senegalese and working with the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network, through which the W.H.O. and other agencies respond to health crises.
世卫组织还表示，一位与其合作机构相关的传染病专家也在塞拉利昂感染了埃博拉病毒。该组织发言人格里高里·哈特(Gregory Hartl)说，感染者是塞内加尔人，供职于全球疫情警报和反应网络(Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network)。世卫组织与其他一些机构正是通过这个网络，来应对医疗危机的。