Last week, climate change negotiators from around the world converged on Lima, Peru, with a new sense of momentum. One driver of that attitude was the fact that just last month, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China made a joint announcement in Beijing in which each pledged to try to limit or reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the coming years. Mr. Xi promised that China would reach an emissions peak by “around 2030” and have 20 percent of its energy come from non-fossil fuels by that year.
上周，来自全球的气候变化谈判代表带着一种全新的心态齐聚秘鲁利马。这种新心态的驱动力之一是上月美国总统奥巴马和中国主席习近平在北京达成的联合声明。两国承诺在未来几年尝试限制或减少二氧化碳排放量。习近平承诺中国将在2030年左右达到排放峰值，届时20%的能源将来自非化石燃料。
Now in Lima, climate negotiators are trying to shape commitments that would be finalized at a summit meeting in Paris next year. The talks are scheduled to run through this week. One proposal would require countries to submit to international electronic monitoring and verification in cutting carbon dioxide emissions, to ensure they are keeping to their commitments.
在利马，气候谈判代表们试图为明年的巴黎峰会上将最终确定的各国承诺描绘雏形。谈判预计将于本周举行。其中一项提案要求各国在减少二氧化碳排放方面遵从国际电子监控和验证，以确保各国履行承诺。
China has for years balked at such requirements, and as of early this week its negotiators in Lima were working to ensure that the final document would not include such clauses, said an environmental advocate in Lima, who is tracking the talks and spoke on the condition of anonymity to not be seen as influencing the events. Some environmental analysts say China might simply be staking out a starting position for negotiations and may eventually relent.
现在利马的一位环保倡导者说，中国数年来一直拒绝这类要求，直到本周初，中国代表仍在利马努力确保最终文件不包括这些条款。这位环保倡导者持续关注谈判，因不愿被视作影响会谈而要求匿名。一些环境分析家表示，中国可能仅仅是为谈判定一个起点而已，最终会让步。
Chinese officials have sometimes referred to a 24-year-old clause in an earlier agreement that says countries should have “common but differentiated responsibilities,” meaning developed and developing nations have different standards to meet when it comes to taking action on climate change.
中国官员有时会引用一份24年前的早期协议中的一个旧条款，称各国应有“共同但有区别的责任”，意为在气候变化的应对措施方面，发达国家和发展中国家应采用不同的标准。
On Monday, The New York Times asked the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the country’s insistence that outsiders should not monitor emissions-reduction pledges. Hong Lei, a ministry spokesman, said in a written statement:
周一，《纽约时报》向中国外交部询问有关中国坚持国外机构不应监控减排承诺的立场。外交部发言人洪磊在一份书面声明中说：
Your question touches on the issue of transparency. On this issue, China always supports increasing transparency and further improving the rules of reporting. The new protocol over the reporting mechanism of greenhouse gas emissions should reflect “the common but differentiated responsibilities” between developed and developing countries, taking into consideration the reality that developing countries’ basic capacities in areas like national statistics and assessment are still insufficient. Developed countries should provide appropriate support to developing countries.
“你的提问涉及到透明度问题。在这一问题上，中方一贯支持增加透明度，支持进一步完善报告规则。新协议温室气体报告规则体系应体现发达国家和发展中国家间“共同但有区别的责任”，考虑发展中国家国内统计、考核等基础能力不足的现实情况，发达国家要为发展中国家提供相应支持。
Your question is very specific. Its details have yet to be verified. As far as I know, the Lima conference is just entering its second week, and a relevant draft is still under negotiation. All sides will hold further discussions on the principles of open transparency, consensus through consultation and initiative by signatories. 
你提的问题十分具体，细节有待核实。据我了解，利马会议刚刚进入第二周，有关决定草案仍在谈判过程中，各方将本着公开透明、协商一致和缔约方驱动等原则进行深入讨论。”