LIMA, Peru — Negotiators from around the globe reached a climate change agreement early Sunday that would, for the first time in history, commit every nation to reducing its rate of greenhouse gas emissions — yet would still fall far short of what is needed to stave off the dangerous and costly early impact of global warming.
秘鲁利马——来自全球的谈判代表周日早些时候达成了一项气候变化协议。该协议将史上首次要求所有国家都为减小温室气体排放速度作出贡献——但其仍远不能达到延缓全球变暖所造成的危险且代价高昂的早期影响所需的努力。
The agreement reached by delegates from 196 countries establishes a framework for a climate change accord to be signed by world leaders in Paris next year. While United Nations officials had been scheduled to release the plan on Friday at noon, longstanding divisions between rich and poor countries kept them wrangling through Friday and Saturday nights to early Sunday.
这项由来自196个国家的代表达成的协议为一个将于明年在巴黎由世界领导人签署的气候变化协议建立了框架。尽管联合国官员本计划于周五中午发布该项计划，但富裕国家和贫穷国家之间长期存在的分歧致使官员们从周五到周六晚一直争论不休，直至周日早些时候。
The agreement requires every nation to put forward, over the next six months, a detailed domestic policy plan to limit its emissions of planet-warming greenhouse gases from burning coal, gas and oil. Those plans, which would be published on a United Nations website, would form the basis of the accord to be signed next December and enacted by 2020.
该项协议要求每个国家都在未来的六个月中交出一份详细的国内政策方案，旨在限制由燃烧碳、天然气和石油产生的使地球变暖的温室气体的排放。这些方案将被发表在一个联合国网站上，它们将构成那个将于明年12月签署、于2020年前付诸实施的协议的基础。
That basic structure represents a breakthrough in the impasse that has plagued the United Nations’ 20 years of efforts to create a serious global warming deal. Until now, negotiations had followed a divide put in place by the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which required developed countries to act but did not demand anything of developing nations, including China and India, two of the largest greenhouse gas polluters.
这项基本框架代表着一个突破——联合国20年来试图创立一个动真格的全球变暖协议的努力一直处于僵局之中。在此之前，谈判一直在1997年《京都议定书》造成的分歧下进行。《京都议定书》要求发达国家行动起来，但未对包括中国和印度在内的发展中国家提出任何要求。中印均属最大温室气体污染国。
“This emerging agreement represents a new form of international cooperation that includes all countries,” said Jennifer Morgan, an expert on international climate negotiations with the World Resources Institute, a research organization.
“这项新近协议代表着一种涵盖所有国家的国际合作新形式，”研究机构世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)的国际气候谈判专家詹妮·弗摩根(Jennifer Morgan)说。
“A global agreement in Paris is now within reach,” she said.
“在巴黎达成一个全球协议现在成为可能了，”她说。
On its own, the political breakthrough will not achieve the stated goal of the deal: to slow the rate of global emissions enough to prevent the atmosphere from warming more than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit over the preindustrial average. That is the point at which scientists say the planet will tip into dangerous and irreversible effects, such as melting sea ice, rising sea levels, increased flooding and droughts, food and water shortages, and more extreme storms.
这项政治突破本身并不能达成该协议的既定目标：减缓全球排放速度，以防止大气变暖至比工业化前的平均值高出3.6华氏度（2摄氏度）的水平。科学家称，超过这个临界点，地球便将陷入危险且不可逆的效应，例如海冰融化、海平面上升、更多的洪涝和干旱灾害、食物及水源短缺，以及更为猛烈的暴风雨。
Experts estimate that the aggregate impact of the commitments would reduce emissions at about half the level necessary to prevent that 3.6-degree increase. To prevent the temperature increase, emissions would have to be reduced by double the amount called for in the accord.
专家估计，各国努力的合力影响所能减少的排放将达到防止那3.6华氏度的增长所需减排水平的一半。要想避免这个温度增量，减排量须是协议所呼吁的量的两倍。
The freshly struck agreement, the Lima Accord, sends the obligation of devising a plan to cut carbon emissions back to the nations’ capitals — and its success or failure rests on how seriously and ambitiously the parliaments, congresses and energy, environment and economic ministries of the world take the mandate to create a new policy.
该项新近达成的“利马协议”(Lima Accord)将设计减少碳排放的义务交还到了各国政府的手中——其成败全在各个议会、国会，及能源、环境和经济部门将多认真、多雄心勃勃地对待这项创建新政策的指令。
American negotiators, led by the State Department’s climate change special envoy, Todd D. Stern, have pushed hard for provisions that required all countries to make their proposals public, transparent and presented with comparable metrics as a way to create outside pressure on countries to produce more ambitious plans.
在美国国务院气候变化特使托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)带领下的美国谈判代表努力争取了要求所有国家的提案做到公开、透明，并以可比性度量标准呈现的规定，以制造外部压力，使各国拿出更具雄心的方案。
“The Lima Accord delivers what we need to go forward,” Mr. Stern said.
“利马协议带来了我们前进所需要的东西，”斯特恩说。
Some environmental groups criticized the compromise deal for watering down language that would have bound countries to more rigorous transparency requirements — such as using similar timetables and baseline years from which emissions would be cut. The accord recommends that governments use those metrics, but does not require it.
一些环保组织批评，该项妥协性协议淡化了本可以使得各国受限于更严格的透明度要求——例如使用同类的时间表及减排起始基准年——的措辞。协议推荐各政府使用那些度量标准，但是并未如此要求。
“It’s the bare minimum of what we need, but we can work with it to get the pressure on,” said Alden Meyer, president of the group Union of Concerned Scientists. Mr. Meyer and other experts said they expected outside nongovernmental groups, research organizations and universities to perform independent analyses of countries’ carbon-cutting plans in order to assess how all the plans stack up in comparison.
“这是我们需要做的最低限度，但是我们可以用它施压，”忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)主席奥尔登·迈耶说。迈耶及其他专家说，他们期待外部非政府组织、研究机构及大学能就各国的碳减排方案展开独立分析，以评估并比较所有这些方案累积起来的效果。
Delegates here widely acknowledged that the catalyst for the deal was a joint announcement last month in Beijing by President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China that the world’s two largest greenhouse gas polluters would limit their emissions. That move appeared to break the 20-year impasse in climate talks — particularly a longstanding insistence by developing nations that they not be required to make emissions cuts while they still had populations in poverty.
这里的谈判代表广泛认同，上月奥巴马总统与中国国家主席习近平于北京作出的联合声明是这次协议的催化剂。该声明称这两个世界上最大的温室气体污染国将致力减排。此举似打破了气候谈判20年来的僵局——特别是发展中国家长期以来称自己仍有贫困人口、因而不该被要求减排的坚持。
“The success of this has laid a good foundation for success of Paris,” said Xie Zhenhua, China’s vice minister of National Development and Reform Commission. “Next year all of us, all countries, will continue to demonstrate our ambition, flexibility and confidence,” he said.
中国国家发展和改革委员会副主任解振华说，“这次的成功为巴黎的成功奠定了良好的基础。明年，我们所有人、所有的国家都将继续展示我们的雄心、灵活性和信心。”
The environment minister of India, the world’s third largest carbon polluter, praised the deal. “We have a true consensus,” said the minister, Prakash Javadekar. India has resisted calls to commit to net reductions of its soaring carbon pollution, insisting that it should not be required to cut its use of cheap coal-fired power while millions of impoverished Indians live without electricity.
印度环境部长普拉卡什·雅瓦德卡尔(Prakash Javadekar)称赞了这个结果，他说，“我们有了一个真正的共识。”印度是世界上第三大碳排放国，一直拒绝对其飙升的碳污染做出净减排承诺，坚持认为在仍有数百万贫困的印度人没有生活用电的情况下，不应该要求其减少使用廉价的燃煤发电厂。
But India has signaled that it does intend to submit a plan to at least slow its rate of emissions. And Mr. Javadekar appeared to signal his support of the process of working toward a deal in Paris, saying he hopes to continue to engage with other countries throughout the year.
但印度已暗示，它的确打算提交一份方案，至少减缓其排放速度。雅瓦德卡尔看来也释放出支持达成巴黎协议的工作过程的信号，他说，希望能在未来一年中继续与其他国家接触。
“Let us not leave all our differences for the next venue,” he said.
“让我们不把所有的分歧都留给下次的会议，”他说。
While all countries will be required under the Lima Accord to submit plans to reduce emissions, the nature of the plans can be different according to the size of their economies. Rich countries, like the United States, are expected to put forward plans detailing how they would put their emissions on a downward trajectory after 2020. Large but developing economies, like China, are more likely to put forward plans that name a future year in which their emissions peak. Poorer economies are expected to put forward plans indicating that their pollution will continue to increase — but at a lower rate.
尽管世界各国都需按照利马共识的要求提交减排方案，但方案的性质可以根据各国经济规模的不同而不同。像美国这样的富裕国家有望提交详细方案，计划将如何让自己的排放量在2020年后进入下降的轨道，但如中国这样的发展中经济体则更有可能提交计划，给出其排放达到峰值的未来年度。更穷的经济体预计将提交计划表示，他们的污染将继续增长，但增长速度将降低。
While the Lima Accord lays the groundwork for a possible Paris deal, unresolved questions and huge divisions among countries lie ahead. The biggest one is money. Countries vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, such as low-lying island states and African nations, are already demanding that the Paris deal include not just details on mitigating emissions, but also commitments that rich countries will spend billions of dollars to help them adapt to and recover from the ravages of climate change.
虽然利马共识为可能达成巴黎协议奠定了基础，但悬而未决的问题和国家之间巨大的分歧仍摆在人们面前。最大的一个问题是钱。易受到气候变化影响的国家，如低洼岛国和非洲国家已经提出要求，希望巴黎协议不仅要包括减少排放的细节，还要包括富裕国家愿意花数十亿美元的承诺，以帮助他们适应气候变化，让他们能从气候变化带来的破坏中得以恢复。