By many measures, Jeff Huston and his wife, Lisa Medvedik-Huston, arrived late to Williamsburg, Brooklyn. They weren’t among the first waves of artists and hipsters in the early-to-mid ’90s to cross the East River in search of cheaper, grittier confines. When they rented a spacious, duplex loft two blocks from the Bedford Avenue subway stop in 2007, they found a safe neighborhood already dotted with clothing boutiques and wine shops. The height of the real estate boom was approaching, and condos were rising along both the waterfront and McCarren Park.
从许多衡量标准来看，杰夫·休斯顿(Jeff Huston)及其妻子丽莎·梅杰韦杰克-休斯顿(Lisa Medvedik-Huston)来布鲁克林威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)的时机太晚了。他们错过了20世纪90年代早期到中期的第一波搬家潮。当时，一批艺术家和嬉皮士为了寻找更加便宜、更加平民化的住宅，穿过东河，搬到了布鲁克林。2007年，当休斯顿夫妇在离贝德福德大道(Bedford Avenue)地铁站两个街区的地方租下一套宽敞的复式顶层公寓时，他们所发现的，已经是一片治安较好、遍布着时装店和红酒商店的街区了。那个时候，房产市场正走向鼎盛，无论是在水滨还是麦凯仑公园(McCarren Park)，都有一幢幢共管公寓正在拔地而起。
Yet Brooklyn was still emerging from its postwar slump, and the borough felt new to many, including the young couple. It was five years before the first episode of “Girls” aired on HBO. The concerts that excited the neighborhood were held at an unused city pool, not a world-class arena christened by Jay Z. And real estate investors eager to make all-cash deals were still fixated on Manhattan.
但在当时，布鲁克林依然在从战后萧条中崛起，而对于包括这对年轻夫妇的许多人来说，这个行政区依然很新鲜。时值《都市女孩》(Girls)在HBO首播之前五年，这里有令整个社区为之振奋的音乐会，其举办场地是在一座废弃不用的城市水池，而不是以饶舌艺人Jay Z命名的世界级场馆里；热衷于现金全款交易的房地产投资者，依然集中在曼哈顿。
Over the past several years the couple witnessed the much-bemoaned arrival of banker types, chain stores and tourists. Brooklyn has become a global brand.
过去几年里，夫妇俩见证了大量银行业人士、连锁店和游客的涌入——这一现象令人怨声载道。布鲁克林已经变成了全球性的品牌。
And last year, when they were ready to buy, the couple quickly realized they had been priced out. “I can’t tell you how many listings said, ‘cash only,’ ” said Mr. Huston, whose real estate search included everything from $500,000 apartments to $900,000 fixer-upper rowhouses and took him from Williamsburg to Bedford-Stuyvesant. “That was a wake-up call.”
去年，当夫妇俩准备买房的时候，他们很快就意识到，自己已经在价格战中败北了。“我都不知道有多少挂牌信息上写着‘只接受现金’。”休斯顿说。从50万美元（约合人民币307.2万元）的公寓，到90万美元（约合人民币552.9万元）的待修缮联排别墅，各种房型他都搜索过，所在地点包括从威廉斯堡到贝德福德-斯图文森(Bedford-Stuyvesant)的各个片区。“这给我们敲响了警钟。”
And so the Hustons bid farewell to Brooklyn. In October, they spent $550,000 on a 2,000-square-foot loft in a converted suitcase factory in Jersey City Heights, a section of Jersey City that overlooks Hoboken. “We weren’t sure there was anyone like us in the neighborhood,” he said. Then a Brooklyn-style coffee shop arrived. “The line down the street was all people like us. We could have been in Williamsburg. It was all, like, expats.”
于是，休斯顿一家离开了布鲁克林。10月，夫妇俩花了55万美元（约合人民币337.9万元），在泽西城高地(Jersey City Heights)买了一套由手提箱厂改建而成的、2000平方英尺（约合186平方米）的跃层公寓。在其中可俯瞰霍博肯（Hoboken，新泽西州东北部、哈得孙河畔的一座城市——译注）。“我们也不确定社区里有没有我们这样的人，”他说，“沿街居住的都是像我们这样的人，这里跟威廉斯堡差不多。大家都像是被放逐的人。”接着，一家布鲁克林风格的咖啡馆就入驻了当地社区。
Fed up with rising rents, bidding wars and neighborhoods that no longer resemble the low-rise bohemian enclaves they found when they arrived, many Brooklynites are moving out. They include decade-long renters who can no longer keep up with price hikes, qualified buyers who have been outbid one too many times, and young families who simply can’t find the space they want at prices they can afford.
许多布鲁克林人受够了飞涨的房租和无休止的竞购战；而且，现在的社区已经不像他们当初刚来时的那个波西米亚底层住宅区了。因此他们纷纷开始搬走。这些人，有的是在当地租住了几十年、如今收入已追不上日益上涨的租金的房客；有的是有条件买房、但在价格战中屡战屡败的买家；有的是根本无法在预算范围内买到面积足够大的房子的年轻家庭。
Many have tried in earnest to stay in Brooklyn, squeezing into smaller spaces or heading deeper into the borough in search of affordability. But there comes a point when that hourlong commute becomes difficult to justify, and the realization strikes that a house with a yard in Maplewood, N.J., can be had for about the same price as a condo in Midwood.
许多人想尽办法留在布鲁克林，他们不惜压缩居住空间，或者搬到更偏远的行政区，以将房费控制在可负担的水平。但是终有一天，长达数小时的通勤时间会令人难以忍受；而他们也会不无触动地意识到，他们在米德伍德(Midwood)买一套共管公寓的价格，完全可以在新泽西州的梅普尔伍德(Maplewood)买下一栋带庭院的房子了。
In the northwest part of the borough, where chain stores like J. Crew and Rag & Bone are edging out locally owned bars and organic grocers, “Brooklyn has become unaffordable,” said Victoria Hagman, the broker-owner of the Realty Collective, founded in 2005. “For normal, middle-class people with good credit, we used to be able to say, ‘We can find you something.’ ” Now, even in once working-class areas like Windsor Terrace, Kensington, Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant, she said, “people are priced out of purchasing and landlords are asking egregious numbers.”
在这片行政区的西北部，J.Crew、瑞格布恩(Rag & Bone)等连锁商店正在挤走本地酒吧和有机食品商，“布鲁克林已经住不起了，”成立于2005年的房地产公司Realty Collective的经纪人兼所有者维多利亚·哈格曼(Victoria Hagman)说，“以前，我们可以跟信用良好的普通中产人士说，‘我们可以帮你找一套房子。’”她说，现在，就算是在从前的中产阶级聚居区，比如温莎露台(Windsor Terrace)、肯辛顿(Kensington)、皇冠高地(Crown Heights)、贝德福德-斯图文森，“人们也打不赢购房的价格战了，而房东则在漫天要价。”
Neighborhoods in the central and eastern parts of Brooklyn largely remain low-income. But a combination of scarce listings, high demand and rapid-fire gentrification has sent prices soaring in the northwest quadrant, from Red Hook to Greenpoint along the waterfront and inland to Gowanus and Park Slope South. In the second quarter of 2014, 107 sales priced above $2 million took place, more than any other prior quarter, according to the Corcoran Group. Those deals included a $10.625 million townhouse on Willow Street in Brooklyn Heights, a $5 million loft in a shoe polish factory turned luxury condo building in Williamsburg, and a $3.15 million condo in Dumbo, to name a few.
布鲁克林中部和东部社区，大多依然是低收入人群的社区。然而，由于挂牌房源稀缺、需求量大，加上士绅化(gentrification)的急速推进，整个西北部地区——无论是滨水的红钩区(Red Hook)、绿点区(Greenpoint)，还是内陆的郭瓦纳斯区(Gowanus)、公园坡南(Park Slope South)，房价都在全线飙升。根据柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的调查，2014年第二季度，有107桩售房交易的价格高于200万美元（约合人民币1225.6万元），超过了此前任何一个季度。其中成交的房产包括：布鲁克林高地柳树街(Willow Street)的一套联排别墅，成交价1062.5万美元（约合人民币6582万元）；威廉斯堡的一套位于一栋由鞋油厂改建的豪华共管公寓楼内的顶层公寓，成交价500万美元（约合人民币3072万元）；邓波区(Dumbo)的一套共管公寓，成交价315万美元（约合人民币1935万元）。此处仅举出部分例子。
Such high-end sales helped shrink the gap in median real estate price, which measures the middle of the market, between Brooklyn ($575,000) and Manhattan ($910,000) by 33 percent to $335,000 in the second quarter, down from $500,000 in 2008, before the collapse of the real estate market, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm.
房地产估值公司米勒·塞缪尔(Miller Samuel)的总裁乔纳森J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)表示，这类高端交易的达成，缩小了布鲁克林和曼哈顿之间的房价中值差异。房价中值衡量的是中间水平的市价。在今年第二季度，布鲁克林和曼哈顿的房价中值分别是575000美元（约合人民币3532570元）和910000美元（约合人民币5590676元），之间的差距为335000美元（约合人民币2058106元）；相比于2008年房市崩溃前夕的500000美元（约合人民币3071800元）又缩小了33%。
Renters aren’t faring much better. The median rental price in northern Brooklyn was up 6.6 percent to $2,852 in July, marking the 14th consecutive year-over-year increase in monthly rent, according to a report by Douglas Elliman. That is $353 cheaper than the median monthly rent in Manhattan. Five years ago Brooklyn was $1,030 cheaper.
租房者的情况也好不到哪去。根据道格拉斯·艾丽曼(Douglas Elliman)的一份报告，布鲁克林北部7月的房租中值增长了6.6%，达到2852美元（约合人民币17522元），标志着月租连续14个月保持同比增长，比曼哈顿的月租中值低353美元（约合人民币2169元）。而五年前，布鲁克林的房租比曼哈顿要便宜1030美元（约合人民币6328元）。
Sure, some Brooklynites who have noticed the shrinking gap are choosing to settle in the far corners of the Upper East and West Sides of Manhattan. But Brooklyn has shed its image as a bargain-priced alternative to Manhattan.
当然，有些布鲁克林人注意到了价差缩小的事实，于是选择搬到上东区或曼哈顿西区的偏远角落去。但是，布鲁克林作为廉价版曼哈顿的形象，已不复存在。
“One of the things I find sort of fascinating is that there were so many people in the city in my generation whose parents were struggling to get either themselves or their kids out of Brooklyn, and those people’s kids are now back in Brooklyn,” said Frederick Peters, 62, the president of Warburg Realty, a luxury Manhattan-based brokerage firm. “It kind of changed from Manhattan being aspirational for the generation of people who are 40 or under, to Brooklyn being aspirational.” As a result, he said, “most of the Brooklyn business we do is with people for whom that’s their first choice.”
“我发现了一件有意思的事，在我们这一代，有许多人的父母都曾想方设法让自己或孩子走出布鲁克林；而现在，这些人的孩子又回到了布鲁克林。”弗雷德里克·彼得斯(Frederick Peters)说。彼得斯现年62岁，是曼哈顿一家豪华房产经纪公司Warbug Realty的总裁。“对于40岁以下的人来说，令人向往的地方似乎从曼哈顿变成了布鲁克林。”因此，他说，“我们在布鲁克林的业务，打交道的客户大多是以当地为首选居住地的客户。”
The tendency is to move the search deeper into Brooklyn before looking elsewhere. Then, somewhere around Midwood, brokers say, the train ride to Manhattan becomes an issue for commuters and people begin searching for alternatives — including in areas they may have turned up their noses at just a few years ago.
现在的趋势是，人们在其它地方物色房源之前，会先看一看布鲁克林的偏远地带。经纪人表示，由于米德伍德一带距离曼哈顿的火车车程较近，在通勤人士和物色便宜房源的人群当中，已成为抢手地段——其中包括一些在短短几年前还无人问津的地区。
When friends of Mr. Huston, 42, a filmmaker, and Ms. Medvedik-Huston, 43, an accessories designer, bought a brownstone in Jersey City several years ago, “I thought they were out of their minds,” Mr. Huston said. But now, having left their 688-square-foot Williamsburg rental to buy a 2,000-square-foot loft in Jersey City Heights, his view has changed. Their new home, a duplex, has two bedrooms, two baths, 11 floor-to-ceiling windows, exposed brick walls and a wine cellar. Two swings hang by ropes from the wooden beams. “It was a no-brainer, trust me,” he said, noting that their monthly outlay is just a couple hundred dollars more than what they paid in Williamsburg.
现年42岁的休斯顿是电影制片人，他的妻子、现年43岁的梅杰韦杰克-休斯顿是首饰设计师。当他们的朋友几年前在泽西城购买了一套褐石住宅时，“我当时觉得他们疯了。”休斯顿说。但是现在，自从搬离了688平方英尺（约合64平方米）的威廉斯堡出租房，并在泽西城高地买下2000平方英尺（约合186平方米）的复式公寓后，他的观点发生了改变。夫妇俩的新家是一处两层住宅，有两间卧室、两间浴室、11扇落地窗、裸露的砖墙和一间酒窖。两个秋千由绳子吊着，悬在木梁上。“当初买下这套房子，想都不要想，相信我，”他还提到，现在每月的开支只比他们住在威廉斯堡的时候多几百美元。
“We have noticed a growing trend of more people that are priced out of Brooklyn that have been driven our way,” said Matt Brown, a broker at Halstead Property in Hoboken, who along with his business partner, Peter Cossio, is a proponent of the area’s townhouse stock, proximity to Manhattan and lower prices. They pointed out in a market report that the average price of a condo in Hoboken was $590,912 or $576 a square foot in the first half of 2014, versus $1,534,701 or $1,049 a square foot in the North Brooklyn area encompassing Brooklyn Heights, Carroll Gardens, Cobble Hill, Dumbo, Red Hook and the Columbia Street waterfront.
“我们注意到，越来越多在布鲁克林住不下去的人，来到了我们的社区，”霍博肯(Hoboken)哈尔斯特德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的经纪人马特·布朗(Matt Brown)表示。布朗和他的商业伙伴彼得·科西奥(Peter Cossio)很推崇本地区的联排别墅存量房，这些房源离曼哈顿近，而且价格较低。他们在一份市场报告中指出，在2014年上半年，霍博肯的共管公寓均价为590912美元（约合人民币3630326元），或者每平方英尺576美元（约合每平方米人民币39319元）。而在布鲁克林北部——包括布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)、卡罗尔花园(Carroll Gardens)、科布尔山(Cobble Hill)、邓波区、红钩区和哥伦比亚街(Columbia)滨水一带，其共管公寓的均价为1534701美元（约合人民币9428589元），或每平方英尺1049美元（约合每平方米人民币71607元）。
The northward migration of young Brooklyn parents along New York river towns like Hastings-on-Hudson, Irvington and Beacon has been well chronicled. Montclair and Maplewood, N.J., also have their share. And brokers and residents alike report a virtual pipeline of Brooklyn defectors to Queens.
布鲁克林的年轻父母们，纷纷沿着哈得孙河畔的黑斯廷斯(Hastings-on-Hudson)、欧文顿(Irvington)、比肯(Beacon)等纽约河滨城镇向北移居。这样的现象已经被大书特书。新泽西州的蒙特克莱尔(Montclair)和梅普尔伍德也有不少外地来客。经纪人和居民都说，那些逃离布鲁克林的人群，已经走出了一条从布鲁克林向皇后区(Queens)迁徙的虚拟通道。
Kathleen Kim and her husband, Brian Witte, hoping to start a family, initially went looking for a two-bedroom for $2,800 a month or less in Williamsburg, where they rented a one-bedroom with an office just off the Graham Avenue stop on the L line for $2,330 a month. They also searched in Carroll Gardens, Fort Greene, Park Slope, Windsor Terrace and Greenpoint. But the apartments all came with caveats, said Ms. Kim, 34, a freelance television producer, rattling off a few: “has washer/dryer, good space or an updated kitchen but is a trek to the nearest subway ... amazing location but the second bedroom is actually an alcove between the living room and actual bedroom ... right near Prospect Park but has claustrophobic, windowless ant colony layout.”
凯瑟琳·金(Kathleen Kim)和丈夫布莱恩·威特(Brian Witte)想要建立一个家庭。他们一开始在威廉斯堡物色月租在2800美元（约合人民币17202元）以内的两居室。当时他们租住的是威廉斯堡的一套带有办公室的一居室，就在L线格雷厄姆大道(Graham Avenue)地铁站，月租2330美元（约合人民币14315元）。他们在卡罗尔花园、格林堡(Fort Greene)、公园坡、温莎露台和绿点区也找过房子，但那些公寓都有美中不足的地方。现年34岁的金是一名自由电视制片人，她不假思索地举出了几个例子：“（有的房子）有洗衣/烘干两用机，地方够大，厨房较新，但是离最近的地铁站太远了……（有的房子）地段超好，但是第二间卧室其实就是客厅和主卧之间的一个壁橱……（还有的房子）就在展望公园(Prospect Park)附近，但是让人觉得幽闭，没有窗户，是群租房的布局。”
It wasn’t until they had exhausted Brooklyn’s “deeper cuts,” as Ms. Kim described neighborhoods like Sunset Park, Kensington and Gowanus, that their friend Daniel Day Lee, a real estate agent with Citi Habitats, suggested they take a look at Sunnyside, Queens. They were reluctant at first. “Brian,” Ms. Kim said, “held some reservations about the Q word.” But after a visit, Mr. Witte, 36, a media planner at Comedy Central, was quickly sold on the neighborhood’s stately Tudor buildings, wide diversity, dead-on Manhattan views, attractive prices and “small town in the big city feel.”
他们还在日落公园(Sunset Park)、肯辛顿、郭瓦纳斯找过房子，用金的话说，这些地方是布鲁克林的“犄角旮旯”。等到这些地方也找过之后，夫妇俩的朋友、Citi Habitats的房地产经纪人丹尼尔·戴·李(Daniel Day Lee)建议他们在皇后区的桑尼塞德(Sunnyside)碰碰运气。他们一开始不太愿意。金说，“布莱恩对皇后区的印象不太好。”但是，实地走了一遭之后，威特很快就折服了——这里有富丽堂皇的都铎风格(Tudor)建筑、极其多样性的社群、和曼哈顿如出一辙的面貌、富有吸引力的房价，而且“给人的感觉就像是一座大城市里的小城镇。”现年36岁的威特是“喜剧中心”（Comedy Central，美国有线及卫星电视中的一个电视频道，专播喜剧及幽默节目——译注）的媒体策划。
Last month, the couple moved into a corner, three-bedroom, one-bath with new floors and stainless-steel appliances, including a five-burner stove, on the top floor of a six-story Tudor-style elevator building. The monthly rent: $2,750.
上个月，夫妇俩搬进了一栋六层都铎风格的带电梯大楼，他们的转角公寓在大楼顶层，内有三间卧室、一间浴室、新铺设的地板、还配备了不锈钢用具，包括一个五炉灶台。每个月的房租是2750美元（约合人民币16895元）。
“I loved living in Williamsburg,” Ms. Kim said. “And for single young people moving to the city, I would not blame them for paying loads more to live in a tiny space there. But we’re moving into a different stage in our life, and for the pace and the price, Sunnyside was the logical next step for us.”
“我喜欢威廉斯堡的生活，”金说，“有些刚搬进纽约的单身年轻人可能会花大价钱挤在威廉斯堡的小房子里，我觉得他们这样做也无可厚非。但是我们现在已经进入了一个不同的人生阶段，从房价和居住面积的角度讲，桑尼塞德是我们接下来的现实选择。”
It wasn’t all that long ago that couples priced out of Manhattan were saying the same thing about Brooklyn. “Brooklyn started to really blossom in many ways because Manhattan was getting too expensive,” said Jonathan Bowles, the executive director of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan research group in New York. “You had college professors, nonprofit staff, people in publishing, teachers. They were middle class and very highly educated and went to Brooklyn because of the kind of creativity and arts scene and people like them, frankly. For people in those same professions today, Brooklyn is mainly unaffordable — those same neighborhoods are clearly unaffordable.”
就在不久之前，他们因无力承担房价而离开曼哈顿时，对布鲁克林也说过同样的话。“布鲁克林在很多方面都迎来了真正的兴盛，因为曼哈顿的房价已变得太贵了，”纽约非盈利研究机构城市未来中心(Center for an Urban Future)的执行主任乔纳森·鲍尔斯(Jonathan Bowles)说，“以前这里住着高校教授、非营利组织员工、出版界人士和教师。他们都是中产阶级，受教育水平也很高。之所以来到布鲁克林，就是因为这里是创新和艺术圣地，人们真心喜欢这里。如今，对于从事同行业的人来说，布鲁克林基本上是一个住不起的地方——原来的那些社区显然都住不起了。”
Part of the challenge for those wanting to remain in the borough is that just as in Manhattan, inventory is excruciatingly low. The number of apartments for sale dropped 5.9 percent to 4,426 in the second quarter of 2014, yet sales surged 12.5 percent to 2,086.
对于想要留下来的人来，他们遇到的部分挑战跟在曼哈顿的情况一样——存量房少得要命。在2014年第二季度，待售公寓数量减少了5.9%，降到4426套；而销量却飙升了12.5%，达到2086套。
Intense competition over scarce listings means buyers who require a mortgage may be out of luck. “Inventory has been so tight that right now you are up against tremendous competition,” said Aleksandra Scepanovic, a founder and the managing director of the Ideal Properties Group, a Brooklyn-based firm she started in 2007 with her partner, Erik Serras. Apartment hunters in Brooklyn are coming up against “a different caliber of buyer,” a buyer armed with liquid assets. “At the same open house,” she added, “they are ready to write a check today.”
围绕稀缺房源的激烈竞争，意味着买家如果需要靠抵押贷款来买房，就可能没什么好运气了。“现在存量房太紧缺，你不得不面临惨烈的竞争，”理想地产集团(Ideal Properties Group)创始人兼总经理亚历山德拉·什切潘诺维奇(Aleksandra Scepanovic)说。坐落于布鲁克林的理想地产集团，是她与合伙人埃里克·塞拉斯(Erik Serras)在2007年创立的。在布鲁克林寻找公寓的人们，正在与一帮用流动资产武装起来的、“档次完全不同的买家”竞争。“在开放售房日那天，”她还说，“他们当场就能开支票。”
A review of Ideal Properties clients who bought in northwest Brooklyn in the second quarter of 2014 reflects the trend. Nearly a third of the 382 home buyers earned at least $300,000 a year, compared with just 11 percent a year ago. During the same time frame, 65 percent of home buyers offered to pay with cash, compared with 32 percent a year earlier. Most of the buyers have jobs in sales, finance or accounting.
2014年第二季度，从理想地产集团的客户在布鲁克林西北部的购房情况中，我们也可以看到这一趋势。在382名购房者当中，有近三分之一的人年收入至少在300000美元（约合人民币1843080元）；而在一年前，这一比例仅有11%。在同一时间区间内，65%的购房者提出用现金购房；而在一年前，这一比例为32%。这批购房者多数从事的是销售、金融或会计行业。
For some Brooklynites the arrival of this wealthier class of buyers and the Manhattanesque stores that have popped up to cater to them signals the end of an era.
富裕阶层的买家已经到来，随之而来的还有专门为迎合他们的需求而开设的曼哈顿式店铺。对于有些布鲁克林人来说，这昭示着一个时代的终结。
“Carroll Gardens used to be a place in the summertime where you could get an Italian ice at one of so many pizza places,” said Chris Braun, a psychology professor at Hunter College, who moved to Carroll Gardens in 2001 for its quiet streets, Italian bakeries and Virgin Mary statues in the front yards of brownstones. “Now people go to 16 Handles,” he said referring to a self-serve frozen yogurt chain that replaced a local joint named Joe’s Luncheonette. “It’s a different group of families,” he continued. “It’s families that want the 16 Handles and not to talk to Sal.”
“以前，每到夏天，你就可以在卡罗尔花园满大街的披萨店里买到意大利冰激凌，”亨特学院(Hunter College)的心理学教授克里斯·布劳恩(Chris Braun)说。布劳恩在2001年搬到卡罗尔花园，因为这里的街道很安静，有意大利烘焙坊，褐石建筑的前院里树立着圣母玛利亚雕像。“而现在，人们去的是16 Handles，”他说的是一家自助冻酸奶连锁店，它取代了当地的小酒馆Joe’s Luncheonette。“现在住在这里的家庭跟以前不一样了，”他接着说，“这些人只想自助购物，不想跟人打交道。”