SHANGHAI — I’m half a world from home, in a city I’ve never explored, with fresh sights and sounds around every corner. And what am I doing?
上海——此刻我身在地球的另一端，一座我从来未曾探访过的城市，每一个角落的所见所闻都是新鲜的。那么，我在干什么呢？
I’m watching exactly the kind of television program I might watch in my Manhattan apartment.
我在看跟我在曼哈顿的公寓里会看的几乎一样的电视节目。
Before I left New York, I downloaded a season of “The Wire,” in case I wanted to binge, in case I needed the comfort. It’s on my iPad with a slew of books I’m sure to find gripping, a bunch of the music I like best, issues of favorite magazines: a portable trove of the tried and true, guaranteed to insulate me from the strange and new.
离开纽约前，我下载了一季《窃听》（The Wire，又译《火线重案组》——译注），以便在我需要放纵自己或寻求慰藉时用得上。我把剧集存在iPad里，除此之外还有一大堆我肯定能看得下去的书，一些我最喜欢的音乐，几期我最爱的杂志：这是一座经过考验的移动宝藏，肯定能将我与新鲜陌生的事务隔离开来。
I force myself to quit “The Wire” after about 20 minutes and I venture into the streets, because Baltimore’s drug dealers will wait and Shanghai’s soup dumplings won’t. But I’m haunted by how tempting it was to stay put, by how easily a person these days can travel the globe, and travel through life, in a thoroughly customized cocoon.
看了大概20分钟后，我强迫自己放下《窃听》，到街上走走，因为巴尔的摩的毒贩子会等我，上海的汤团却不会。但令我不能释怀的是，待着哪也不去的想法居然如此诱人，现如今一个人可以躲在高度定制的蚕茧里周游世界、遍历人生。
I’m not talking about the chain hotels or chain restaurants that we’ve long had and that somehow manage to be identical from time zone to time zone, language to language: carbon-copy refuges for unadventurous souls and stomachs.
我指的不是连锁酒店或连锁餐厅，这些东西我们早就已经有了，并且不知不觉做到了在不同时区、不同语言环境下都一模一样：为不喜冒险的灵魂和胃批量复制的避难所。
I’m talking about our hard drives, our wired ways, “the cloud” and all of that. I’m talking about our unprecedented ability to tote around and dwell in a snugly tailored reality of our own creation, a monochromatic gallery of our own curation.
我指的是我们的硬盘，我们的联网手段，“云”之类的东西。我指的是我们可以把一个我们自创的、精心定制的现实，一家我们亲手策划布置的单一性画廊随身携带，并沉迷其中。
This coddling involves more than earphones, touch pads, palm-sized screens and gigabytes of memory. It’s a function of how so many of us use this technology and how we let it use us. We tune out by tucking ourselves into virtual enclaves in which our ingrained tastes are mirrored and our established opinions reflected back at us.
环侍执乐的不只是耳机、触控板、手掌大小的屏幕和亿万字节的存储空间。它是一种功能，源自我们如何使用这种技术，以及我们怎样让这种技术使用我们。我们把自己关在虚拟的世外桃源中，对外界不闻不问，在这里我们固有的品味被原样复制，我们的成见得以自证。
In theory the Internet, along with its kindred advances, should expand our horizons, speeding us to aesthetic and intellectual territories we haven’t charted before. Often it does.
理论上说，互联网和与其相关的进步一样，应该能拓展我们的视野，推动我们进入陌生的审美和智识领域。事实通常也的确如此。
But at our instigation and with our assent, it also herds us into tribes of common thought and shared temperament, amplifying the timeless human tropism toward cliques. Cyberspace, like suburbia, has gated communities.
但是在我们的怂恿和允许下，它也会把我们赶进一个见解统一、性情共通的群落里，将人类亘古不变的“扎堆”倾向放大。和城市郊区一样，赛博空间也是一种封闭社区。
Our Web bookmarks and our chosen social-media feeds help us retreat deeper into our partisan camps. (Cable-television news lends its own mighty hand.) “It’s the great irony of the Internet era: people have more access than ever to an array of viewpoints, but also the technological ability to screen out anything that doesn’t reinforce their views,” Jonathan Martin wrote in Politico last year, explaining how so many strategists and analysts on the right convinced themselves, in defiance of polls, that Mitt Romney was about to win the presidency.
我们的网页书签和我们自己选定的社交媒体源让我们进一步躲进自己的帮派大本营里。（这其中有线电视新闻也在发挥其强大影响力。）“这是互联网时代的巨大讽刺：人们可以前所未有地接触到各种各样的观点，但同时，技术又让他们有能力屏蔽一切不能巩固其既有看法的东西，”乔纳森·马丁(Jonathan Martin)去年在“政治人”(Politico)上写道，他以此来解释为什么那么多右翼的战略家和分析师会无视民调结果，让自己相信米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)将会赢得总统竞选。
But this sort of echo chamber also exists on cultural fronts, where we’re exhorted toward sameness and sorted into categories. The helpful video-store clerk or bookstore owner has been replaced, refined, automated: we now have Netflix suggestions for what we should watch next, based on what we’ve watched before, and we’re given Amazon prods for purchasing novels that have been shown to please readers just like us. We’re profiled, then clustered accordingly.
然而像这样的回音壁同样也存在于文化领域，我们被劝诫着变得千篇一律，被归入特定类型。那些很有帮助的录像带租赁店员工或书店老板已经被取代、改进和自动化：我们现在有Netflix，根据我们之前看过的东西来推荐我们接下来看什么，我们让亚马逊(Amazon)来推荐购买一些像我们这样的人喜欢看的小说。我们的特征被总结出来，然后归入相应的群体。
By joining particular threads on Facebook and Twitter, we can linger interminably on the one or two television shows that obsess us. Through music-streaming services and their formulas for our sweet spots, we meet new bands that might as well be reconfigurations of the old ones. Algorithms lead us to anagrams.
通过加入Facebook和Twitter的一些特定的讨论串，我们可以无休止地沉浸在我们着迷的一两部电视剧里。通过音乐流媒体服务和它们为我们调制的心动配方，我们结识到的一些新乐队可能根本就是重新调整后的老乐队。算法把我们带向一个个变形词。
I keep thinking about a widely circulated speech that the movie director Steven Soderbergh gave earlier this year. He recounted a flight he’d taken from New York to California and the way a nearby passenger had been using an iPad. “I begin to realize that what he’s done is he’s loaded in half a dozen sort of action extravaganzas and he’s watching each of the action sequences,” Soderbergh said. “This guy’s flight is going to be five and a half hours of just mayhem porn.”
我时常想起电影导演史蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)去年发表的一个广泛流传的演讲。他回忆了一次从纽约搭飞机去加州的途中、附近一位乘客使用iPad的事情。“我发现他就是准备了七八部火爆动作大片，把每个火爆段落看一遍，”索德伯格说。“这位老兄的五个半小时飞行完全是一部混战打斗的色情片。”
Soderbergh was mainly lamenting the endangered appreciation of real storytelling and character development. But there’s an additional moral to his story. As his fellow flier traversed an entire continent, he used a device capable of putting a galaxy of information within reach to collapse the universe into one redundant experience, one sustained note, a well-worn groove also known as a rut. There he happily spun his wheels.
索德伯格主要哀叹的是欣赏真正的故事铺陈和人物发展的人已经濒临灭绝。然而他的这个故事还有另一层寓意。在穿越整块大陆之际，他的那位飞行伙伴用一个可以容纳海量信息的设备，将整个宇宙折叠起来变成一种冗余的体验，一个持续的音符，一种又名陈规的迂腐套路。这个人乐得这样消磨时光。
I say that as someone who has too frequently spun his own, clutching my smartphone, looking down instead of up, tap-tap-tapping, maintaining unbroken contact with the usual suspects and entertainment and ideas. But I try to resist, because trading serendipity for safety is a raw deal in the end. There’s a skyline in Shanghai unlike any I’ve seen. Who knows what other discoveries are in store?
我应该就算一个经常这样消磨时光的人，抓着我的智能手机，低着头，在屏幕上指指点点，和那些人、娱乐和想法保持着不间断联络。但是我在试图抗拒，因为放弃意外的新发现以换得安逸，终归不是什么划算的买卖。上海的天际线和我见过的任何城市天际线都不一样。谁知道还会有什么发现在等着我呢？