Ivanka Trump, first daughter, strode into Washington back in January with big promises: She was passionate about helping “working women,” she said, and she was going to close the gender wage gap even if it killed her.
一月的时候，第一千金伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)带着宏大的诺言走进华盛顿：她说她热切地想要帮助“职业女性”，誓死消除男女薪酬差距。
Well, not if it killed her, not literally, but even if it mildly inconvenienced her, she was on it 110 percent, for the women. Well, not if it mildly inconvenienced her, she’s very busy, but definitely if there was a wage transparency policy already in place, she would not openly and glowingly support overturning it.
除非是真的会死。不过，就算要克服一点点麻烦，她还是会110%地为女性努力的，除非是真的给她带来了一点点麻烦，她毕竟是很忙的。但是，如果已经有现成的薪酬透明政策，她绝对不会公开地、热烈地主张废除它。
Well, unless her dad wanted to overturn it because doing so satisfied two of his top 10 vindictive fixations (constraining women’s independence and destroying the legacy of America’s first black president), but Ms. Trump would absolutely offer a better replacement solution, such as saying the words “child care credit” and “female entrepreneurs” repeatedly near a camera while wearing a blush-pink toggle coat. That, ladies, is the Ivanka Guarantee. Enjoy your money!
除非，是她老爸想要废除，因为这样做满足了他的十大复仇执念中的两个（限制女性独立和摧毁美国首任黑人总统的政治遗产），不过特朗普女士本来绝对会拿出一个更好的替代方案，比如穿着羞红色牛角扣大衣在镜头前反复说“育儿退税”和“女性创业”这几个词。女士们，这可是“伊万卡担保”。等着数钱吧！
Ms. Trump’s self-professed commitment to corporate gender parity (about as milquetoast as feminism gets, but in Trump’s America, radicalism is relative) was trotted out incessantly during the campaign, especially as an antidote to her father’s self-professed commitment to nonconsensually sticking his hands on women’s genitals.
特朗普女士自称要一心向着企业性别平等努力（大概是最谨小慎微的女权主义了，不过在特朗普的美国，激进主义是个相对概念），在竞选期间无休止地反复念叨，这尤其是在化解她父亲的一项自封的使命——在未获准许的情况下把自己的手放在女性生殖器上——的时候。
Yet, in a statement last week, Ms. Trump endorsed the decision to abandon an Obama-era initiative, set to go into effect next spring, requiring federal contractors and companies above a certain size to report salary data. “Ultimately,” Ms. Trump explained, “while I believe the intention was good and agree that pay transparency is important, the proposed policy would not yield the intended results.”
然而在上周的一份声明中，特朗普女士对放弃一项奥巴马时代倡导行动的决定表示了支持，该行动按计划将于明年春天生效，要求规模达到一定程度的联邦承包商和公司上报薪酬数据。“归根结底，”特朗普女士解释说，“虽然我相信动机是好的，也同意薪酬透明的重要性，但这项政策提议并不会得到预想的结果。”
You’d think that a passionate anti-wage-gap crusader like Ms. Trump would relish a broad, ever-expanding data set illuminating her pet issue so that she could go after it with laser focus, but no. She is even more devoted than that. She hates the gender wage gap so much, she can’t even stand to know anything about it. Some heroes wear capelets.
像特朗普女士这样一个满腔热血的反薪酬差距斗士，你会以为她应该乐意看到有一套广泛的、不断扩展的数据，把她最关心的问题大白于天下，让她可以专心致志地解决它。然而她实在太重视这个问题。她对薪酬差距的痛恨已经到了不想对它有任何了解的程度。不是所有英雄都穿斗篷，有的穿的是披肩。
Real question: Is anyone out there still waiting for Ivanka Trump to come through?
真正的问题在于：还有谁在期待伊万卡·特朗普会履行承诺吗？
When Donald Trump was elected president last November, his elder daughter was portrayed as liberal America’s consolation prize, like a Christmas present from an absentee dad plunked on the doormat in February. Uh, this is what you Democrats are into, right? Women? Businesswomen? Your little woman projects? That’s still your thing, right?
去年11月唐纳德·特朗普当选总统时，他的大女儿被当成了给自由派美国的一个安慰奖，就像未曾在身边陪伴的父亲，在2月里丢了一件圣诞礼物在你家门口。呃，你们民主党就喜欢这一套对吧？女性？商界女性？你们的女权小项目？这个依然是你们最迷的，对吧？
She has played her role dutifully, pretending to care about women’s upward mobility just enough to soothe the complacent and provide plausible deniability for her father.
她一直在尽心扮演自己的角色，假装关心女性向上提升的空间，只需足够安抚那些掉以轻心的人们，为其父提供貌似合理的反驳依据。
And, inexplicably — perhaps because hope has been thin on the ground since November — some people seem to be taken in. If Ms. Trump says she was dismayed by her father’s announced ban on transgender people in the military, well, I guess it’s true. What a nice moderate lady! If Ms. Trump says that America is no place for Nazis and white supremacists, are we going to tell her she’s wrong? She probably just forgot to mention that some of those Nazis and white supremacists were marching in explicit support of her father. That can happen. As a working mom myself, I know it can be hard to keep all these details straight!
然而令人费解的是——可能是因为自11月以来，期待值实在太低——有些人似乎买账了。如果特朗普女士说，父亲做出在军中禁止跨性别人士的决定，令她感到失望，我想那是真心的。多么体面克制的女士！如果特朗普女士说，美国不会容忍纳粹和白人至上者，我们会认为她说的不对吗？她可能只是忘了说，有些纳粹和白人至上者的游行是为了表达对她的父亲的明确支持。这是可能的。作为一名职业女性，我很清楚那么多细节要照顾到是很难的！
The fact is, the only evidence we have of Ms. Trump’s supposed moderating effects and passion for progressive causes is her word. And, unfortunately for the entire planet, the word of a Trump isn’t worth very much.
事实上，对于特朗普女士的这种所谓缓和效应和对进步事业的热情，唯一的证据是她的言语。不幸的是，全世界都知道，特朗普家的人嘴上说的东西，是没什么价值的。
A real advocate for women’s power and prosperity would be devastated by President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which will shatter the lives of hundreds of thousands of immigrant women and the people who depend on them. A real advocate for women’s autonomy would fight indefatigably for affordable health care and abortion access. A real advocate for women would care about gay women, trans women, black women, Muslim women, Jewish women and all the other women being dehumanized and imperiled by Trumpism’s fetish for calamity. If you are helping only certain women, then you do not actually care about women.
一个真正想促进女性力量和成功的人，应该会对特朗普总统终止“童年入境暂缓遣返程序”(Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals)的决定深感痛心，成千上万的移民女性和依赖她们的人将遭受重创。一个真正想促进女性自主的人，会顽强地争取合理医疗费用和堕胎便利。一个真正想促进女权的人应该心系同性恋女性、跨性别女性、黑人女性、穆斯林女性、犹太女性，以及其他所有因嗜好灾难的特朗普主义而被去人性化和置身险境的女性。如果你只想帮助某类女性，那么你其实并不是真的关心女性。
Ivanka Trump is never going to come through. Coming through isn’t her function. She is more a logo than a person, a scarecrow stuffed with branding, an heiress-turned-model-turned-multimillionaire’s-wife playacting as an authority on the challenges facing working women so that she can sell more pastel sheath dresses.
伊万卡·特朗普绝不会履行承诺。履行承诺不是她的职责。与其说她是人，不如说她是标识，一个只塞满了品牌的稻草人，从女继承人变身模特又变身大富豪之妻的她，假扮成职场女性所面临的挑战方面的权威，这样一来就能卖出更多色彩柔和的紧身裙。
All that aside, even if Ms. Trump does sincerely care about the issues she purports to, the fact remains that her father is a stubborn, intractable toddler. No one has power over him. He doesn’t want to be moderated, even by his daughter.
此外，就算伊万卡·特朗普真心关注她宣称在意的议题，也无法改变一个事实：她父亲是一个冥顽不灵的巨婴。没有谁能影响他。他不愿受人约束，就算是他女儿也不行。
Recently, in a blistering roast by Sarah Ellison in Vanity Fair, Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, were cast as ineffectual dilettantes and Beltway laughingstocks, treating the nation like a vanity project, an ad campaign, a toy. Ms. Ellison wrote, of Ms. Trump, that if “her main value in Washington is her access to her father and she is unable to sway him, then she is simply a 35-year-old former real estate and retail executive in over her head.” Why do we pay her any attention at all?
《名利场》(Vanity Fair) 最近刊发了一篇出自莎拉·埃里森(Sarah Ellison)之手的严厉的批评性文章，伊万卡·特朗普和她丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)被描绘成无能的浅薄之辈和华盛顿的笑柄，把这个国家当成一个门面工程、一场广告攻势、一件玩具来对待。埃里森提及伊万卡·特朗普时写道，如果“她在华盛顿的主要价值就是接近她父亲的机会，却又不能影响他，那么她只是一名现年35岁、不知深浅的前房地产业和零售业高管。”我们干嘛要给予她任何关注？
Stop wondering which of these people will save us and when. There is not going to be a surprise silver lining to the Trump presidency — not from Ivanka Trump, not from Jared Kushner, not from Rex Tillerson, not from John Kelly. This is it. The Trump Doctrine is to say whatever makes you feel good and do whatever makes you the most money. And Ms. Trump isn’t anomalous; she’s emblematic. Don’t waste your time parsing what they say; spend it fighting what they do.
别再去琢磨这些人当中的哪一个会在何时拯救我们。特朗普的总统任期不会有意料之外的希望——不论是伊万卡·特朗普、贾里德·库什纳、还是雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)或约翰·凯利(John Kelly)，都不能带来希望。就是这样。特朗普主义(Trump Doctrine)的意思是，说让自己感觉良好的任何话，做让自己赚最多钱的任何事。别再浪费时间分析他们说的话，有那个功夫不如去反对他们做的事。