John McCain, Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell and the rest of you: It’s time to stop suggesting that Donald Trump doesn’t represent you, because he does represent you. He’s your party’s nominee, with your endorsements. Until you withdraw those, he has your blessing. Your permission.
约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)、保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)、米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)，还有你们其他人：别再暗示唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)不代表你们了，因为他的确代表你们。他是你们党的总统提名人，获得了你们的背书。除非你们撤销背书，否则他就享有你们的祝福。还有你们的认可。
And if you keep forgiving him and prioritizing your political survival over the country’s stability, he could wind up representing all of us.
此外，如果你们继续原谅他，继续把自己的政治生命凌驾于这个国家的稳定之上，他最终就有可能代表我们所有人。
Tell me that doesn’t scare the bejesus out of you. Do it with a straight face.
告诉我你没被这种前景吓到。一本正经地告诉我。
Senator McCain, Representative Ryan, he’s just given you fresh cause to bolt, saying in a Tuesday interview with The Washington Post that he doesn’t support either of you in your respective Republican primary contests.
麦凯恩参议员、瑞安众议员，他刚刚给了你们一个迅速远离他的新理由，周二接受《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)采访时，他说不会在你们俩参与共和党初选竞争之际给予支持。
From the standpoint of tradition, this is shocking. From the standpoint of Trump, not so much. You’ve upbraided him (mildly). You’ve bruised his tender ego. So now he gets to stick out his tongue at you.
从传统的角度看，这令人颇为震惊。但从特朗普的角度看，并没有什么了不起的。你们（温和地）责备了他。你们伤害了他那脆弱的自尊心。所以他现在要对你们伸出舌头。
It has to make you wonder why you twisted and turned and tried to justify your support of him in the face of his petulant, gratuitous attack on the Muslim parents of a soldier who died fighting for America. Or why so many G.O.P. leaders twisted and turned after his petulant, gratuitous attack on a Mexican-American judge. Or why you all should stick around to twist and turn the next time.
这必然促使你们去思考：当他暴躁而又毫无来由地攻击一名为美国战死的穆斯林军人的双亲时，你们为何各种高接低挡，去竭力证明你们对他的支持是有道理的。或者，在他暴躁而又毫无来由地攻击一位墨西哥裔美国法官之后，那么多共和党领导人为什么竭力高接低挡。又或者，你们所有人为什么还要等着他再一次让你们高接低挡。
Trump isn’t slouching toward gravitas. He’s having a tantrum, and to threaten him with timeouts that never come only encourages it. Spare the rod, spoil the Donald.
特朗普没有在懒散地走向庄严和正经。他是在耍性子，威胁说要把他暂时换下场但却迟迟不兑现，只会助长他的气焰。省了大棒，就惯坏了特朗普。
This isn’t a normal presidential election, he isn’t a normal political candidate, and you know it. We all do. And it’s well past time to reckon fully with that.
这不是一场正常的总统大选，他也不是一个正常的政界候选人，你们知道这一点。我们都知道。我们早就应该全面地认清并接受这一点。
Not just you but all of us keep according larger historical sense to his candidacy and trying to fit it into pre-existing frames, but I fear that when we do that, we minimize the outright outrage and singular farce of it.
不只是你们，我们所有人都不断地为他的候选人资格赋予更大的历史意义，并竭力让其与既有的框架相融。但我担心，当我们这样做的时候会忘记，让特朗普获得候选人资格本身就是彻头彻尾的错误，荒诞不经的闹剧。
We throw around terms like demagogue and fascist, but I’m not sure he’s coherent, consistent or weighty enough for either.
我们会丢出煽动家、法西斯主义者之类的名词，但我觉得，就其一致性、持续性或重要性而言，他可能够不上两者中的任何一个。
We label him anti-establishment, and that’s a howler. He grew up affluent. Went to an Ivy League college. Sent his kids to posh boarding schools. Mingled with Bill and Hillary Clinton at his (third) wedding. He is the power elite, albeit an ostentatiously gold-tufted version of it.
我们给他贴上反建制的标签，更是大错特错了。他出身于富裕的家庭。上过常青藤名校。把子女送进豪华寄宿学校。在自己的（第三次）婚礼上与比尔和希拉里·克林顿(Bill and Hillary Clinton)夫妇谈笑风生。他其实是权力精英，尽管是招摇过市、财大气粗的那种。
In presidential races past, we’ve seen protectionists, nativists, even racists. What we haven’t seen, not in my lifetime, is a major-party nominee who is such an unabashed and unrepentant fabulist, with so little control over his temper and a worldview shaped entirely by what and who flatter him.
在以往的总统竞选中，我们看到过贸易保护主义者、本土主义者，乃至种族主义者。但我们从未见过这样一个主要政党的总统提名人：他是不知羞耻、不思悔改的说谎者，对自己的脾气丝毫不加控制，世界观完全由取悦他的事物和奉承他的人塑造而成。反正我这辈子都没见过。
Never has a nominee pouted with his grandeur. Never has one bragged with his abandon.
从来没有哪个总统提名人如此显摆自己的权势。也没有哪个人如此夸耀自己的放纵。
He’s best described not in political terms but in developmental ones. He’s a toddler. I’d say “infant” but infants are pre-verbal, and he has a few words, most of them monosyllabic.
最好是用发育类词汇而非政治类词汇来描述他。他是一个幼儿。我本来想说“婴儿”，但婴儿不会说话，但他能说出一些单词，大部分都是单音节的。
Only a toddler could be so self-justifying and tone-deaf that he’d compare the sacrifice of Humayun Khan — the soldier I mentioned who was killed in Iraq — to his own professional work of erecting tall buildings and simultaneously enriching himself.
只有幼儿才会如此自以为是，才会如此搞不清楚情况：他竟然把胡马雍·汗(Humayun Khan)，也就是我提过的那位在伊拉克遇难的军人做出的牺牲，与自己的专业工作相提并论，而他所做的不过是盖起高楼大厦，同时让自己赚得盆满钵满。
Only a toddler would respond to Michael Bloomberg’s digs at him by saying that when they golfed together, “I hit the ball a lot longer.” Yes, Donald, everything about you is longer. We haven’t forgotten that G.O.P. presidential debate.
只有幼儿才会在回应迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)对他的讥讽时说，两人一起打高尔夫的时候，“我击出的球飞得距离更长。”没错，特朗普，关于你的一切都更长，我们还没忘记那场共和党总统竞选人辩论。
Over the last few days, the word “decency” has popped up a lot, and it’s on target.
在过去几天里，“体面”这个词冒出来很多次，它还真是一针见血。
“There’s just no sense of decency from this man,” Rick Tyler, a Republican strategist who worked for Ted Cruz, told Politico.
“这个男人身上根本没有体面的感觉，”曾为特德·科鲁兹(Ted Cruz)工作的共和党策略师里克·泰勒(Rick Tyler)告诉《政客》(Politico)杂志。
“He has no decency,” Khizr Khan, the fallen soldier’s father, told ABC News.
“他一点也不体面，”那名阵亡军人的父亲吉泽尔·汗(Khizr Khan)告诉ABC新闻频道(ABC News)。
Trump isn’t just uninformed, as his recent comments on Ukraine reaffirmed. He’s a repository of almost every character trait that we reprimand children for.
特朗普最近发表的关于乌克兰的言论再一次表明，他不仅仅是信息贫乏。会让孩子招致批评的那些性格特征，我们在他身上全能看到。
And the examples of his indecency get lost in the sheer volume of them. Any one might end another candidate’s quest. But they’re the white noise of his bid. He’s redeemed by his own repulsiveness.
此外，能表明他不体面的例子实在太多，简直数不胜数。任何一个例子也许都会让其他任何候选人的总统梦化为泡影。但它们却成了他竞选过程中遮丑的白噪声。他的丑陋拯救了自己。
I appreciate that for many conservatives, a Supreme Court shaped by Hillary Clinton would be an abomination. But can they really elevate that concern above national security and entrust the country to a tyrant-loving, Putin-flirting, NATO-dissing novice?
我明白，很多保守派人士难以接受一个由希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)帮助塑造的最高法院。但他们真的可以让这种担忧凌驾于国土安全之上，把国家托付给一个热爱暴君，跟普京眉目传情，对北约嗤之以鼻的政坛菜鸟吗？
I understand that renouncing him means abetting her, which hurts, given her considerable flaws and their genuine qualms.
我明白，踩他就意味着挺她，鉴于她身上有许多瑕疵，再加上他们真会感到不安，这样做是很痛苦的。
But there are bigger things at stake. That’s why so many loyal Republicans have already fled, to regroup over the next four years.
但这牵涉更大的利害关系。正因为如此，许多忠诚的共和党人已经逃离战场了，他们要在未来四年里重整旗鼓。
I get it: If McCain and other congressional Republicans turn off Trump’s supporters, they might get turned out themselves.
我明白：如果麦凯恩和其他共和党议员惹恼特朗普的支持者，那他们自己或许会被抛弃。
But as the Post interview made clear, Trump is already giving those supporters license to do as they wish. Besides which, isn’t there a point at which principle must kick in? Aren’t there bounds to partisanship and personal interest? I ask that not in favor of Clinton or the Democrats but out of concern — no, alarm — for America, which needs a grown-up who honors our values, not a brat who shreds them.
但正如《华盛顿邮报》的采访所表明的那样，特朗普已经准许这些支持者去肆意行事。此外，不是到了某一个点之后，就必须开始讲原则吗？追求党派和个人利益不是应该有个限度吗？我请求你们这样做并不是因为对克林顿有所偏爱，而是因为对美国的前途感到担忧——不对，是恐慌。美国需要一个能够把我们的价值观发扬光大的成年人，而非一个会把它们撕碎的熊孩子。