EVERY year the frenzy to get into highly selective colleges seems to intensify, and every year the news media finds and fawns over the rare students offered admission to all eight Ivy League schools. This year Ronald Nelson, from the Memphis area, was one of those who sopped up that adulation.
名校入学的争夺越来越激烈，每年媒体都会找到那寥寥几位得到全部八所常青藤盟校录取通知的学生，并大加追捧。来自田纳西州孟菲斯地区罗纳德·纳尔逊(Ronald Nelson)，就是今年被媒体热情恭维的人之一。
But his story had a fresh wrinkle. Nelson turned down Harvard, Yale, Princeton and the rest of them and chose instead to stay in the South, at the University of Alabama, where he’ll begin his studies later this month.
但他的故事却小有不同。他拒绝了哈佛、耶鲁、普林斯顿等学校的邀请，选择待在南方的阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)，并将在本月晚些时候入读。
The lower price tag of Alabama, which is giving him a bounty of aid, was one reason. He also cited another: He’ll be taking classes at its honors college, which promises him an environment of especially dedicated, high-achieving students within a larger, more diverse community of more than 30,000 undergraduates.
阿拉巴马大学不仅学费低廉，还为罗纳德提供了一份丰厚的助学金，这是罗纳德选择该校的原因。不过他还指出了另一个原因：在这座由3万多名本科生组成的更庞大、更多样的社区内，他可以和一些格外勤奋而优秀的学生一起，在学校的荣誉学院就读。
Nelson’s decision taps into a striking development in higher education. More and more public schools are starting, expanding, refining and successfully promoting honors programs, and particularly honors colleges, that give students some of the virtues and perks of private schools without some of the drawbacks, such as exorbitant tuition and an enclave of extreme privilege.
罗纳德·纳尔逊的决定，让我们看到了高等教育领域发生的一个重大发展。越来越多的公立学校正在开设、扩展、完善和成功地推广荣誉课程，特别是荣誉学院，这就为学生们提供了私立学校所有的一些特殊待遇和长处，却没有它们的缺点，比如要负担高昂的学费，要置身于一片权贵云集的领地。
The honors college at Alabama has been around only since 2003 and has grown steadily since then. It now includes more than 6,500 students. In a neighboring state, the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga recently put the finishing touches on its own ambitious honors college.
阿拉巴马大学的荣誉学院是2003年才成立的，此后日益发展壮大，现在有超过6500名学生。在相邻的田纳西州，田纳西大学查塔努加分校(University of Tennessee at Chattanooga)投入重本筹建的一座荣誉学院即将落成。
There are dozens more honors colleges like these across the country, and while they’re hardly secrets, they don’t get quite the attention from college applicants — most notably from those fixated on the Ivy League and its ilk — that they deserve. Over the next few months, as accomplished high school seniors finalize the lists of where they’ll apply, they’d do well to consider the honors colleges at Alabama, at U.T.-Chattanooga or at other public universities.
全国范围内有几十家类似的荣誉学院，虽然不是什么秘密，却没有引起多少大学申请者的注意，因为大部分申请者都只专注于常青藤之类的院校。在接下来的几个月里，随着完成学业的高中毕业班学生定下最终的申请名单，他们会明智地考虑阿拉巴马大学、田纳西大学查塔努加分校以及其他公立大学的荣誉学院。
And they’d be wise to consult a website and book that, surprisingly, fly somewhat under the radar in an era when applicants and their parents are hungrier than ever for any college-admissions resource that might help.
他们最好去看看一个网站和一本书，如今学生和家长们都渴望获得一切有助于大学申请的资源，然而这本书却意外地被忽视了。
The book could use a title snappier and sexier than the one it has, “A Review of Fifty Public University Honors Programs.” It was first published in 2012 and updated last year. It’s linked to publicuniversityhonors.com, which began in 2011 and, like the book, provides thorough appraisals of individual honors colleges and programs and intelligent thoughts on how they fit into the higher-education landscape.
这本书叫就是《五十所公立大学荣誉课程概览》(A Review of Fifty Public University Honors Programs)，书名完全可以再简练和性感一些。它于2012年出版，并在去年有所更新。与该书相关的还有一个于2011年建立的网站：publicuniversityhonors.com。和该书一样，网站为申请者提供有关各荣誉学院和课程的详细评估，并在如何适应高等教育环境方面给出了一些有见地的思考。
One recent post explores “College Value: Public Honors vs. Private Elites.” Another, “Honors and Career Success,” explains why a state university honors college or program might be the smartest of all options for some students.
最近发表的一篇文章探究的是“大学的价值:公校荣誉VS私校精英”。还有一篇“荣誉学院和职业成功”则解释了为什么州立大学的荣誉学校或者课程，对一些学生来说是最明智的选择。
“Because of the broader student body at a public university, there’s a lot more reach in terms of the type of people you’re going to encounter,” John Willingham, the author of the book and the architect of the website, told me.
“由于公立学校庞大的学生人数，接触到各种各样的人的机会就会更多，”约翰·威林厄姆(John Willingham)表示，他是该书的作者和网站的制作者。
And it’s likely that at a public university’s honors college, there will be a smaller percentage of students from extremely wealthy families than at one of the most highly selective private schools.
在一所公立大学的荣誉学院，来自极端富有家庭的学生比例，很有可能比大多数精挑细选的私立大学的比例要低。
“They’re not all elite,” Willingham said, referring to honors college students, “though most are capable. There’s a more egalitarian quality.”
“他们不全都来自于精英阶层，”威林厄姆说到荣誉学院的学生，“尽管大多数条件都不错，但层次更均匀。”
The honors colleges and programs to which he gives highest praise include the Barrett Honors College at Arizona State University, which is widely considered the gold standard; Schreyer Honors College at Penn State; the South Carolina Honors College at the University of South Carolina; and the honors program at the University of Kansas.
他评价最高的荣誉学院和荣誉课程，包括亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State University)的巴雷特荣誉学院(Barrett Honors College )——被公认为是此类学院的黄金标准，宾州州立大学(Penn State)的施赖尔荣誉学院(Schreyer Honors College)、南加州大学(University of South Carolina)的南加州荣誉学院(South Carolina Honors College )和堪萨斯大学(University of Kansas)的荣誉课程。
Generally speaking, honors programs give students who’ve distinguished themselves through their SAT scores, ACT scores or grade-point averages access to, and dibs on, small classes filled with other honors students. Honors colleges are essentially more formal, larger versions of honors programs, and there are often extra resources, even designated buildings and residences, for their students.
一般而言，对于以优异的SAT、ACT成绩或高平均成绩点数脱颖而出的学生，荣誉学院会给他们提供小班授课，这种课程只面向此类优等生。荣誉学院实际上就是更正式、规模更大的荣誉课程。对这类学生，学校往往有额外的资源投入，甚至给他们提供专门的教学楼和宿舍。
In some instances, students are invited to step onto the honors track, based on the strength of their application to the wider university. In others, they must take it upon themselves to go through the extra paces and specific process of admission to an honors college.
在某些情况下，有些学生会因被诸多学校争相录取而被给予优先加入荣誉学院的机会。其他情况下，他们得自己争取，要经过额外的步骤，通过特别的流程，才能拿到一个荣誉学院的录取通知书。
There are a few reasons not to applaud these honors tracks. Some universities lavish disproportionate energy on them, eager for bragging rights and trying to draw students whose profiles may bolster the university’s stature and rankings, and they use financial aid money that could go to needier cases for honors college recruits. (Then again, private colleges intent on moving up in the rankings similarly use merit aid to compete for top students.)
这些荣誉途径也有为人指摘的地方。有些大学会在这方面浪费过多精力，竭力吹嘘自己的条件，以争取尖子生来帮助提升学校的地位和排名，而他们用以吸引这类学生的奖学金，也许可以用在一些更需要钱的地方。（不过，私立学校为了提高学校的排名，也会用类似的奖学金诱惑来争取尖子生。）
ADDITIONALLY, honors colleges in some ways replicate, within a public school, the kind of stratified, status-conscious dynamic at play in the hierarchy of private schools.
此外，荣誉学院某种程度上是在一间公立学校内复制私校的那种阶层化、有强烈身份意识的等级制度。
But as Willingham rightly noted, the honors college cocoon isn’t as gilded as that of the most highly selective private colleges, which draw heavily from prep schools and affluent suburbs. And it’s part of a public university with considerable socioeconomic diversity.
但是，就像威林厄姆指出的，还未发展完善的荣誉学院并不像大多数精挑细选的私立院校那么显赫，后者会从私立中学和富裕的郊区大量吸收生源。荣誉学院是一所公立大学的一部分，它有着相当大的社会经济多样性。
Jonathan Fink, a vice president at Portland State University who successfully pushed for its honors program to become a full-fledged honors college, told me, “The students that P.S.U. draws are so different from the ones that my sister teaches at Mount Holyoke or that my other sister teaches at Sweet Briar.”
波特兰州立大学（Portland State University，简称PSU）副校长乔纳森·芬克(Jonathan Fink)成功地将本校的荣誉课程变身为成熟的荣誉学院，他告诉我，“我有两个姐妹分别在曼荷莲学院(Mount Holyoke)和斯威特布莱尔学院(Sweet Briar)任教，PSU吸引的学生和她们所教授的学生非常不同。”
As a result, he said, P.S.U. arguably illuminates “more about the real world, which is the world you’ll ultimately be immersed in.”
因此，他说PSU无疑“能更好地阐明现实世界，也就是你最终要融入其中的世界。”
“It gets you exposed to reality more,” he said, referring to the diversity that honors students at P.S.U. encounter. “The role that a place like P.S.U. plays is increasingly important as society becomes more economically split.”
“它让你更多接触现实世界，”他是指PSU荣誉学院学生所能接触到的多样性。“随着社会经济层次分化越来越严重，像PSU这样的学校所扮演的角色也越来越重要。”
Fink’s daughter graduated last year from Barrett at Arizona State. Its dean, Mark Jacobs, previously taught at a small private college in the Northeast. Fink noted that Jacobs “often talks about having been at Swarthmore and wishing he could have had Penn State next door — at A.S.U., he more or less got that.” Barrett combines the intimacy and academically distinguished student body of a Swarthmore with the scale, eclecticism and sprawling resources of a huge university. It’s two experiences in one.
芬克的女儿去年从亚利桑那州立大学巴雷特荣誉学院毕业。巴雷特学院院长马克·雅各布斯(Mark Jacobs)之前曾在美国东北部一所小型私立院校任教。芬克指出，雅各布斯“经常说起以前在斯沃斯莫尔学院(Swarthmore)的情况，说他当时觉得宾州大学要是能在隔壁就好了。如今在亚利桑那州立大学，他或多或少实现了这一点。”巴雷特荣誉学院既有沃斯莫尔学院那种亲切的氛围和优等生群体，又有大型院校才有的规模、折中主义和广泛资源。两种院校的优点合而为一。
Perhaps most important, honors colleges provide a supportive, challenging haven to some gifted young men and women who don’t make the cut at private schools with plunging acceptance rates or who aren’t prepared, for financial and other reasons, to pursue higher education far from their homes.
或许最重要的是，荣誉学院为一部分有天赋的年轻学子创造了一个提供支持又不乏挑战的港湾，他们有些可能达不到录取率骤降的私立学校的要求，有些则不具备远离家乡求学的财力或其他条件。
Robert Fisher, for example. A factory worker’s son who was the football captain and student body president at his high school in Clarksville, Tenn., he applied to a variety of schools in the state, including Vanderbilt, which rejected him. He ended up at U.T.-Chattanooga, on its honors track, which was his gateway to special summer internships in Washington for talented African-American students and to a 10-day cultural seminar in London. The seminar, he told me, was his first time out of the country.
拿罗伯特·费希尔(Robert Fisher)来说。他出生于工人家庭，曾担任田纳西州克拉克斯维尔高中足球队队长和学生会主席。他申请了田纳西州的多所学校，包括拒绝录取他的范德堡大学(Vanderbilt)。最后，他被田纳西大学查塔努加分校荣誉学院优先录取，由此得到参加两项活动的机会，一个是在华盛顿进行的面向优秀非裔美国学生的特别夏季实习项目，另一个是在伦敦举行的为期十天的文化研讨班。他告诉我，参加那个研讨班，是他第一次有机会出国。