When it comes to bullying, to sexual assault, to gun violence, we want and need our schools to be as safe as possible.
提到欺凌、性侵犯、枪支暴力，我们希望并且需要我们的学校越安全越好。
But when it comes to learning, shouldn’t they be dangerous?
但是在学习上，该不该让他们经历危险呢？
Isn’t education supposed to provoke, disrupt, challenge the paradigms that young people have consciously embraced and attack the prejudices that they have unconsciously absorbed?
难道教育不应该去撼动、打乱、挑战年轻人有意识地接纳了的条条框框，并去攻击他们无意识吸收的成见吗？
Isn’t upset a necessary part of that equation? And if children are lucky enough to be ignorant of the world’s ugliness, aren’t books the rightful engines of enlightenment, and aren’t classrooms the perfect theaters for it?
难道失望不是这个等式中的一个必要因子吗？如果孩子有幸对世界的丑陋一无所知，难道书本不是恰当的启迪引擎吗，难道课堂不是它的完美剧场吗？
Not in the view of an unacceptable number of Americans. Not in too many high schools and on too many college campuses. Not to judge by complaints from the right and the left, in suburbs and cities and states red and blue.
有太多美国人不这么认为。太多的高中、太多的大学不这么认为。从来自左翼和右翼、郊区和城市、红州和蓝州的怨言看，他们不这么认为。
Last week was Banned Books Week, during which proponents of unfettered speech and intellectual freedom draw attention to instances in which debate is circumscribed and the universe sanitized. As if on cue, a dispute over such censorship erupted in the affluent Dallas-area community of Highland Park, where many students pushed back at a recent decision by high school administrators to suspend the teaching of seven books until further review. Some parents had complained about the books.
上周是禁书周(Banned Books Week)，在这期间，倡导彻底的言论和知识自由的人士将一些约束辩论、洗白世界的案例呈现在世人面前。仿佛事先约好了似的，一场针对这种审查制度的争论，在达拉斯地区的富裕社区高地公园爆发，那里的高中校方决定暂停七本书的教学，以待进一步的审核，这引发了一些学生的反对。此前，这些书遭到了部分家长的投诉。
Their titles? That was the strangest part. The seven offenders included the young adult novel “An Abundance of Katherines,” by John Green. It was deemed too sexually frank. Also “The Working Poor: Invisible in America,” by David K. Shipler. It has references to rape and abortion. “The Glass Castle,” Jeannette Walls’s best-selling memoir, was tagged for its portraits of alcoholism and mental illness. And “The Art of Racing in the Rain,” by Garth Stein, dared to include a scene in which a teenage girl under the age of consent comes on to an older man. In several sentences, her breasts are described.
书名？奇怪的地方来了。七本犯了禁忌的书包括约翰·格林(John Green)的青少年小说《太多个凯瑟琳》(An Abundance of Katherines)。它被认为在性方面过于直白。还有戴维·K·谢普勒(David K. Shipler)的《工作的穷人：美国那些受到忽视的人们》(The Working Poor: Invisible in America)。它是因为提到了强奸和堕胎。珍妮特·沃尔(Jeannette Walls)的畅销回忆录《玻璃城堡》(The Glass Castle)，被打上了描绘酗酒和精神疾病的标签。加思·斯坦(Garth Stein)的《我在雨中等你》(The Art of Racing in the Rain)胆敢写出一个未成年少女向一个年龄大些的男子提出性要求的片段。其中有好几句话描述了她的乳房。
It’s not exactly “Fifty Shades of Grey.” I mean, its narrator is a Labrador-terrier mix.
和《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey)还是有区别的。你看，故事的叙述者是一只拉布拉多和㹴犬的混血狗。
“It’s the dog book,” Stein marveled when I reached him by telephone in Seattle, where he lives. “My book’s the dog book.” In it an animal who expects to be reincarnated as a person puzzles over humanity — and prepares for it — by studying his master, a racecar driver.
“这是本狗书，”于西雅图家中接受电话采访的斯坦感叹道。“我的书是狗书。”在书中，一只希望投胎转世为人的动物对人性产生了困惑，并为此进行准备——通过向他那位赛车手主人学习。
“It’s full of life lessons: about responsibility, about self-reliance, about perseverance,” Stein said. Apparently, nipples trump all of that.
“全是些人生的历练：关于责任，关于自立，关于坚持，”斯坦说。显然，乳头一出现，这些都无关紧要了。
The events in Highland Park brought to mind other stories, including one in the Denver area that received national attention last week: A newly conservative board for the Jefferson County School District, which is Colorado’s second-largest, raised the possibility of pruning the curriculum of books and material that could be seen to exalt civil disobedience and promote unpatriotic thoughts. Where does that leave the civil rights movement? Vietnam?
高地公园的事件让人想起其他的事迹，包括上周发生在丹佛地区的一桩引起全国关注的事：科罗拉多第二大的杰弗逊县学区(Jefferson County School District)一个新近转向保守派的委员会提出，可能会考虑将课程中有宣扬公民不服从和鼓吹非爱国思想的书籍和材料删去。这是把民权运动置于何处？越战呢？
Late last spring, during commencement season, students at one college after another succeeded in warding off scheduled speakers and honorary-degree recipients whose politics they disagreed with. Condoleezza Rice felt compelled to back out of a speech at Rutgers University. Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, canceled an appearance at Smith College, where students were circulating a petition that charged the I.M.F. with the “strengthening of imperialist and patriarchal systems that oppress and abuse women worldwide.” Brandeis University reacted to faculty and student protests there by rescinding its invitation to the writer and women’s rights advocate Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who had made strongly negative statements about Islam.
今年春末，毕业典礼的季节，一所接一所大学的学生成功地拒绝了和他们政见不合的预定讲话者和荣誉学位得主。康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)被迫放弃了罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的一场演讲。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)取消了在史密斯学院(Smith College)的活动安排，因为那里的学生发起了一场请愿活动，指责货币基金组织“对压迫和虐待全世界女性的帝国主义和男权体系给予了强化”。布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)在学校师生的抗议下取消了对作家和女性权益倡导人士阿亚安·希尔西·阿里(Ayaan Hirsi Ali)的邀请，因为她曾发表了一些针对伊斯兰的极负面言论。
Around that same time, there were movements on scattered college campuses to attach so-called trigger warnings to texts whose evocations of, say, anti-Semitism or rape might prompt emotional turmoil in students. This echoed moves years earlier by officials at some elementary, middle and secondary schools to prune standardized tests of words that might distress students, either by summoning life’s harshness, reminding them of their deprivation or making them feel excluded. “Poverty,” “slavery,” “divorce,” “hurricanes” and “birthdays” were on a list drawn up by New York City educators, who later abandoned the plan.
大概在同一段时间里，一些大学校园里出现了一场运动，要对那些提到反犹主义或强奸等字眼，可能在学生当中引起情感冲击的文本，加上所谓的“敏感警告”(trigger warnings)。这种做法与几年前一些小学、中学官员的举动遥相呼应，那些官员要求审查标准化考试卷中的内容，剔除那些可能因为讲述人生的艰辛，让学生意识到自身的困窘，或者让学生感受到排挤，而可能会令学生感到不安的字眼。纽约市教育工作者列出的一份清单中包括“贫穷”、“奴隶制”、“离婚”、“飓风”、“生日”。后来他们放弃了这一计划。
While these efforts differ greatly, they overlap in their impulse to edit the world to the comfort of students, and that’s especially troubling in this day and age, when too many people use technology and the Internet to filter a vast universe of information and a multitude of perspectives into only what they want to hear, a tidy, cozy echo chamber of affirmation.
尽管这些做法有巨大的差别，但是其内在的冲动却是重叠的：根据学生的舒适需要对世界进行编辑，如今这种冲动尤其令人不安。因为在当今时代，有太多人面对着海量信息和多种多样的视角时，会用技术和互联网进行筛选，只留下自己愿意听的那些，构筑一个整洁、舒适的“回声屋”，进而肯定自己的观点。
The efforts are also inextricable from subtler, more pervasive dynamics of caution and conformity in our classrooms and schools, where “failure” and “disappointment” are sometimes dirty words. When teachers inflate grades, they’re making education a feel-good enterprise rather than a feel-rattled one. When high-school students obsessed with getting into elite colleges avoid any courses that play to their weaknesses, they’re treating education in precisely the wrong way, no matter how understandable their motivation.
这种做法也与教室和学校里，更为微妙也更为普遍的谨慎和从众心理有关，在课堂上，“失败”和“失望”有时都成了脏话。教师夸大成绩时，他们实际上是把教育变成了一桩让人舒服的事业，而不是一桩刺激思维的事业。如果痴迷于跻身精英院校的中学生，避开那些涉及自己弱点的课程，那么他们对待教育的态度就完全是错的，无论其背后的动机多么容易理解。
And when students at those colleges march in lock step toward certain majors (economics, for example) and certain professions (finance and consulting), they’re missing out. That’s what the recent best seller “Excellent Sheep,” by William Deresiewicz, noted and rued: the treatment of hallowed universities as placid pastures for contented grazing rather than majestic landscapes to romp and rage across, their bruising pitfalls redeemed by their exhilarating peaks.
那些大学的学生们争先恐后地修读某些专业（如经济学）、从事某些职业（金融和咨询）的时候，他们其实错过了机会。这正是威廉·德莱塞维茨(William Deresiewicz)最近的畅销书《出色的羊》(Excellent Sheep)中提到的，他也对这种现象表示惋惜：把备受尊崇的大学当做一片平静的草场，用来安适地咀嚼青草；而不是当做险峻奇绝的风景，在其中横冲直撞、恣意驰骋，通过登上令人刺激的顶峰，来抚平跌倒时留下的伤疤。
Education is about growing bolder and larger. It’s about expansion, and that can’t happen if there’s too strong an urge and a push to contract the ground it covers, to ease the passage across it, to pretty up the horizon.
教育的意义在于变得更勇敢、更宏大，其意义在于扩张。要想做到这一点，就不能有太强的愿望和冲动去缩小教育涵盖的范围、柔化接受教育的过程、美化学生眼中的世界。
“You’re only diminishing a young person’s ability to go off into the world and interface with people from all walks of life,” Stein said. Thinking back to his own childhood in the suburbs of Seattle and then his years at Columbia University, he said, “The best teachers I’ve had are the ones who stand up in front of the class and wave their arms and say provocative things that students then react to.”
“你只是在削弱一个年轻人放胆走进世界，与各种人接触的能力，”斯坦说。他回忆起了自己在西雅图郊区的童年时光，以及在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的时光。他说，“我遇到过的最好的老师，会站在全班面前挥动手臂，讲出挑衅的话语，学生们会对他的话做出反应。”