For the past 5 years, or maybe it’s more like 10, I’ve been meaning to publish a New Year’s Day column offering a bold resolution for the coming year: “The Power of Positive Procrastination.”
在过去这5年，也或许更有可能是过去10年，我一直打算在元旦这天发表一篇专栏，为来年立一个大胆的志愿，专栏的题目该是《积极拖延症的力量》。
Well, Jan. 15 is close enough, especially if you still haven’t gotten around to dealing with this year’s resolutions. And you can stop feeling guilty for procrastinating. Science has come up with a defense of your condition.
好吧，1月15日离元旦也不算太远，如果你仍没有抽时间来考虑这个新年的计划，就更加如此了。况且你大可不必为拖延症而感到内疚。对于你的这种情况，科学已经提供了辩词。
Researchers have independently identified the phenomenon of positive procrastination, although there’s some disagreement on what to call it. “Structured procrastination” is the preferred term of John Perry, a philosopher at Stanford who published a book about it last year. Admittedly, it’s not a long book (92 quite small pages), but give him credit: He got it done, and only 17 years after he identified the concept.
不同的研究者已经各自指出了积极拖延症这种现象，不过对于这种现象该如何来称呼，他们存在着分歧。斯坦福大学(Stanford)的哲学家约翰·佩利(John Perry)在去年出版了有关的著作，他比较偏爱“有条理的拖延症”这个术语。无可厚非，这不是一本宏篇巨著（共92页，开本还很小），但总算为他正了名：他确实是把它写完了——在他首次指出该理念仅仅17年以后。
Dr. Perry was a typical self-hating procrastinator until it occurred to him in 1995 that he wasn’t entirely lazy. When he put off grading papers, he didn’t just sit around idly; he would sharpen pencils or work in the garden or play Ping-Pong with students. “Procrastinators,” he realized, “seldom do absolutely nothing.”
佩利博士过去是那种自怨自艾的拖延症患者，直到1995年情况才有了变化，当时他突然恍然大悟：自己并不全然是个懒人。在他迟迟没有给学生批卷子的那会儿功夫，他并没有无所事事；他会削几支铅笔，在花园里侍弄花草，或者跟学生打乒乓球。他认识到：“拖延症患者甚少完全不做任何事情。”
A modest insight, perhaps, but it eased his conscience and disabused him of the old idea that procrastinators should limit commitments. The key to productivity, he argues in “The Art of Procrastination,” is to make more commitments — but to be methodical about it.
这或许是个谦逊的认知，可它确实让他放下了负疚感，纠正了拖延症患者应当少立志、多行动的旧观念。在《拖延的艺术》(The Art of Procrastination)一书里，他阐述说，生产效率的关键就在于常立志——但在规划上要更加有条理。
At the top of your to-do list, put a couple of daunting, if not impossible, tasks that are vaguely important-sounding (but really aren’t) and seem to have deadlines (but really don’t). Then, farther down the list, include some doable tasks that really matter.
在待办事项最首要的位置上，放两件令人望之却步的——如果不是不可能办到的——任务，这些事听起来要隐隐约约显得挺重要（但并非真的如此），看似有个最后期限（也非真的如此）。然后，在待办事项列表再往下，写上几项能做到、而且确实很关键的任务。
“Doing these tasks becomes a way of not doing the things higher up on the list,” Dr. Perry writes. “With this sort of appropriate task structure, the procrastinator becomes a useful citizen. Indeed, the procrastinator can even acquire, as I have, a reputation for getting a lot done.”
佩利博士在书中写道：“完成这些任务，就成为了不去做榜单前列的事情的理由。制订了这种有条理的任务清单结构，拖延症患者将成为有用之人。事实上，拖延症患者甚至能像我这样，获得‘能者多劳’的名声。”
Dr. Perry generously acknowledges that he has stood on the shoulders of giants, in particular Robert Benchley, the Algonquin Round Table member. In 1930, Benchley revealed how he mustered the willpower to pore through scientific magazines and build a bookshelf when an article was due.
佩利毫不吝惜地坦言，自己无非是站在了巨人的肩膀上，尤其是阿尔冈琴圆桌会（Algonquin Round Table，在20世纪20年代，纽约的演员、评论家、作家等组织的聚会）成员罗伯特·本奇利(Robert Benchley)。1930年，本奇利在书中描述说，在一篇稿子的截稿日期已经到来时，自己却仍在殚精竭虑地翻阅着科学期刊，甚至亲手造了一个书架。
“The secret of my incredible energy and efficiency in getting work done is a simple one,” he wrote. “The psychological principle is this: anyone can do any amount of work, provided it isn’t the work he is supposed to be doing at that moment.”
他写道：“我之所以在完成工作时拥有惊人的能量与效率，秘诀说来很简单。它的心理学原理是这样的：任何人都能完成若干数量的工作，只要这工作不需要在眼下立刻动手去做。”
You can also call this “productive procrastination,” the term used by Piers Steel, a psychologist at the University of Calgary. It’s his personal favorite of the dozens of techniques he cataloged while researching his 2011 book, “The Procrastination Equation.”
你也可以称此为“有成效的拖延症”，这个术语是由加拿大卡尔加里大学(University of Calgary)的心理学家皮尔斯·斯蒂尔(Piers Steel)提出来的。在2011年出版的著作《拖延心理学2》（The Procrastination Equation，中译本已在2012年出版。——编注）中，他罗列了几十种应对拖延的战术，而“有成效的拖延”就是他个人最喜欢的一种。
“For most of us, procrastination can be beaten down, but not entirely beaten,” Dr. Steel told me, describing how one of his scholarly papers on procrastination took him a decade to write. “My best trick is to play my projects off against each other, procrastinating on one by working on another.”
“我们大多数人是可以克服拖延症的，不过不可能完全攻克这个顽疾，”斯蒂尔博士告诉我说。他还跟我讲述说，他有一篇关于拖延症的学术论文花了10年才写成。“我个人最好的战术是将自己的每个计划跟另一个相对比，完成这一个计划时，就拖延另一个。”
Dr. Steel says it’s based on sound principles of behavioral psychology: “We are willing to pursue any vile task as long as it allows us to avoid something worse.” He gives theoretical credit to Sir Francis Bacon, the 17th-century philosopher, whose self-control strategy was to “set affection against affection, and to master one by another; even as we use to hunt beast with beast.”
斯蒂尔说，这个战术的基础是行为心理学的确凿的原理：“我们乐于去完成任何讨厌的任务，只是这能让我们躲避某些更糟糕的事情。”这个理论得归功于17世纪哲学家弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)，培根的自制法则是“利用一种情感来击败另一种情感，使情绪互制互克，犹如以兽猎兽。”
Dr. Steel, who has surveyed more than 24,000 people around the world, says that 95 percent of people confess to at least occasional procrastination. (You can gauge yourself by taking his survey at Procrastinus.com.) About 25 percent of those surveyed are chronic procrastinators, five times the rate in the 1970s.
斯蒂尔调查了遍及全球的2.4万多人，他说其中95%的受访者承认至少偶尔会犯拖延症的毛病。（你可以在Procrastinus.com上参加他的调查，进行自测。）其中有约25%的人有慢性拖延症，这个比例比20年代70年代时高了4倍。
He attributes the increase to the changing nature of the workplace: the more flexible that jobs become, the more opportunities to avoid unpleasant tasks. Workers now typically spend a quarter of the day procrastinating, students a third of the day. Men are more likely than women to be chronic procrastinators, especially young men.
他认为拖延症患者人数增长，是因为工作场所的性质发生了改变：工作的弹性越大，逃避不如意的任务的机会也就越多。员工现在普遍每天要四分之一的时间拖延，而学生花三分之一时间。男性，尤其是年轻男性，比女性更有可能成为慢性拖延症患者。
How many of them are actually being productive about it? Alas, there’s no good data, and for now many self-control researchers have doubts about positive procrastination. Even when it works, they say, you’re still wasting energy as you fret, consciously or unconsciously, about the task you’re avoiding.
这些人中，有多少人真的从拖延中取得了成效？唉，这个数据可不理想，而且现在有很多研究自制的学者对积极拖延症产生了质疑。他们说，就算拖延产生了效果，你在有意或无意躲避要完成的任务而烦躁不安时，仍然在浪费精力。
And while Robert Benchley may have built that bookshelf, Raymond Chandler strikes many experts as a better role model. Chandler used the same insight of Dr. Perry — that procrastinators rarely sit around absolutely idle — to develop a strategy that Roy F. Baumeister, a social psychologist at Florida State (and my co-author of a book on willpower) calls the Nothing Alternative. Chandler forced himself to write detective stories by setting aside four hours a day and following two rules:
就算罗伯特·本奇利也许真的造出了书架，但雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)在很多专家们眼中，更胜任榜样的角色。钱德勒运用了与佩利博士同样的认知——拖延症患者甚少完全无所事事——发展出了一种策略，被佛罗里达州立大学(Florida State)的社会心理学家罗伊·F·鲍迈斯特（Roy F. Baumeister，他与我合著有一本关于意志力的书）称为“别无选择”(Nothing Alternative)策略。钱德勒强迫自己笔耕不辍撰写侦探小说，他每天安排专门的四个小时，并遵循以下两条准则：
a) You don’t have to write.
a) 你不是非写不可。
b) You can’t do anything else.
b) 你不能做写作以外的事情。
“It’s the same principle as keeping order in a school,” Chandler explained. “If you make the pupils behave, they will learn something just to keep from being bored.”
钱德勒这样解释：“这跟在学校里遵守纪律是一回事。如果你勒令学生们规规矩矩，他们为了让自己不太无聊，总归要学点东西。”
Even Dr. Perry says it often makes sense to follow that classic advice for procrastinators: Just get started. He knows his strategy is tricky.
连佩利博士也说，遵从这个给拖延症患者的经典建议往往有用：动手去做。他深知自己的战术有点棘手。
“Structured procrastination requires a certain amount of self-deception, because one is in effect constantly perpetrating a pyramid scheme on oneself,” he writes. “One needs to be able to recognize and commit oneself to tasks with inflated importance and unreal deadlines while making oneself feel that these tasks are important and urgent.”
他在书中写道：“有条理的拖延症需要的是某种程度上的自我蒙蔽，因为人们实际上常常在自己拆东墙补西墙。你需要让自己感觉要完成的任务既重要又紧迫，这样才能认可并完成重要性言过其实、而截止日期又不切实际的任务。”
Fortunately, he notes, procrastinators can be great at self-deception, a skill also observed by Dr. Steel.“Productive procrastination is a bit of make-believe, along the lines of setting your watch five minutes fast,” he told me. “You know you did it, but you still pretend you didn’t.
他指出，幸运的是，拖延症患者在自欺欺人这方面做得很出色，斯蒂尔也观察到了这种技能。他对我说：“有成效的拖延症有点像是放烟雾弹，这就跟故意把表调快五分钟一样。你知道自己做了这件事儿，但仍然假装没做。”
“Not everyone can do this. I think it works best for those who feel guilt for their procrastination and need to assuage it. If you are among the set of people who cleaned their dorm room the night before exams, it likely will work.”
“不是所有人都能做到。我觉得它对那些为自己拖拖拉拉感到内疚，需要克服这个问题的人来说最有好处。假如你也是那种在大考前夜却在打扫宿舍的人，这应该是有用的。”
At the very least, you can use it to stop feeling so bad about a problem that everyone shares. It’s certainly a saner strategy than the bromide about never putting off until tomorrow what you can do today. By that logic, you’d never stop working — there’s always something that could be done today.
至少，现在你不会因为所有人都会碰到的问题而心烦意乱了。比起那种“今日事今日毕”的陈词滥调，这种战术听来更理智。如果按照“今日事今日毕”的逻辑你会发现自己永远有干不完的活儿——而你应该知道的是，今天你总能做完某件事。
Better to follow Dr. Perry’s rewritten version: Never do today any task that may disappear by tomorrow.
你不如遵从佩利博士改写的规则：第二天也许就会消失不见的任务，今天就别做了。