My relationship with Thomas began with a seemingly innocuous email he sent to my roommate.
我和托马斯的关系始于他发给我室友的一封似乎无伤大雅的电子邮件。
“What’s your friend’s story?” he asked her.
“你朋友是个怎样的人？”他问她。
She forwarded his email to me, adding, “What do you want your story to be?”
室友把邮件转给了我，问道，“你想让我说些什么？”
I wasn’t trying to hide my past. I had been married briefly and left the marriage feeling skittish but hopeful that someday I’d find someone who suited me better. I dated but wasn’t drawn to anyone enough to go out a second time. When Thomas’s email pinged into my inbox, I felt a surge of excitement for the first time in a long time.
我没有刻意隐藏自己的过去。我曾有过一段短暂的婚姻，离婚后，我感觉惊魂不定，但内心依然充满希望，觉得有一天我会找到更适合自己的那个人。我见了一些人，但没觉得有哪个足够吸引我，让我愿意见第二次。当托马斯的邮件被转到我的邮箱里时，我内心涌起一种兴奋感，这种感觉我好久不曾有过。
Let me back up. The night before, I’d had a long day at work. After a quick trip to the gym, I looked forward to hunkering down in my apartment with some good dinner and bad TV. Earlier in the day, my roommate had invited me to join her and some friends that evening at a bar. Though I had acquiesced, my desire to go out waned as the day wore on. But when I told her to go without me, she insisted I come.
我还是从头开始讲。收到邮件的前一天，我很辛苦地工作了一整天。下班后，我匆匆去健身房锻炼了一会，然后期待着窝在公寓里舒服地吃顿晚餐，看一些不用大脑的电视节目。当天早些时候，室友曾邀请我和她以及她的一些朋友晚上一起去一个酒吧玩。尽管我之前相当于答应了，但是到了晚上的时候，我越来越不想去。当我告诉室友不用等我时，她坚持要我过去。
So I went, reluctantly, and one of the first people I met was Thomas — tall, flirtatious and dimpled. I thought he would make a great fling, something I’d never indulged in before. But as I sipped my drink and watched him banter with most of the women at the bar, I quickly discarded the idea.
所以我不情愿地去了。在那里，我最先认识的人里就有托马斯，他高高的个子，善于调情，笑起来还有酒窝。我当时想，这是个不错的短期交往对象，虽然我以前从没纵容自己这样尝试过。不过当我喝着酒，看他和酒吧里大多数女人打趣时，我很快放弃了这个想法。
I was surprised when his email arrived the next day. I figured his type wouldn’t follow up so soon but would play it cool and maybe casually ask about me days later, if at all. But here he was, less than 24 hours later, asking my roommate, “What’s your friend’s story?”
第二天他的邮件发来，我很惊讶。我原本觉得他那种类型的人不会这么快来探问，而是会保持风度，可能几天后随意问起有关我的事，或者根本也不问。但他竟然不到24小时就来问我的室友，“你朋友是个怎样的人？”
“Tell him whatever you want,” I typed back. “But be honest. And yes, he can have my phone number.”
“想说什么就说什么，”我给室友回复。“不过不要撒谎。而且，你可以给他我的电话号码。”
Everything started out so normally. When he called that night, I didn’t recognize the number, so I was hesitant to pick up, but I was glad I did. We talked and laughed for an hour, and then he asked me out to lunch the next week. Over lunch, our easy attraction continued.
一切都发生得极其平常。那天晚上他打来电话，我不认识号码，所以犹豫要不要接，不过我很高兴自己后来接了。我们聊了一个小时，不乏欢声笑语，然后他约我下周共进午餐。一起吃午餐的时候，我们之间那种自然的相互吸引力依然没有消失。
I figured our lunch would lead to another date, perhaps one that took place on a weekend and involved dinner. But no such invitation arrived.
我以为接着会有下一次约会，或许是在周末，会一起吃晚餐。但对方没有发出这样的邀请。
What had happened? Trying to pinpoint where it had all gone wrong, I picked over every word we’d exchanged, from the moment we met until his quick kiss on the cheek and hug when we parted, which was maybe his way of saying goodbye forever. I had no idea.
怎么回事？为了搞清楚到底哪儿出了问题，我仔细琢磨了我们之前说过的每句话，从我们认识直到上次分开，当时他在我脸颊上轻吻了一下，又来了一个拥抱，这可能是他说永别的方式。我不知道。
A week later, he finally texted: “Hi! How are you?”
一周后，他终于发来信息：“嗨！你好吗？”
Even though I was happy to hear from him, texting wasn’t something I used conversationally. I only did so out of necessity, conveying snippets of information as quickly as possible, such as: “I’m running late for dinner. Be there in 5.”
尽管我很高兴收到他的消息，但打字不是我习惯的对话方式。我只在迫不得已的时候才打字，尽可能快地传递零星的信息，比如：“赶不及约定的晚餐时间，5点到。”
So I wrote him a quick note saying I was doing well and asking how he was. We wound up texting for most of the evening, and I couldn’t help but think, “Why doesn’t one of us just pick up the phone and call?”
所以我给他回了条简单的信息，说我挺好，也问他怎么样。结果我们几乎整晚都在用短信聊，中间我一直忍不住想，“怎么没一个人拿起手机打电话？”
During the week, as our text volleys continued in that conversational way, I kept expecting that he would ask me out again, but not once did he mention another date. On weekdays, he would text to ask how I was, what I’d been doing, how work was. Then on Fridays, he would ask if I had any fun weekend plans.
整整一周，我们继续密集发短信聊天，我一直期待着他再次约我出去，但他一次也没提过。工作日，他问我过得怎么样，在干什么，工作如何。周五的时候，他又问我，周末有没有安排什么有趣的活动。
I never initiated this texting because that seemed too forward. Despite this being the 21st century, I still heard my mother’s admonishing voice in my head, telling me I should never be the first to call a man, and I assumed texting followed roughly the same rules.
我从没有主动发过这类信息，因为那似乎太冒昧。尽管现在是21世纪，但我依然牢牢记着母亲的训诫，她说永远不要主动给一个男人打电话，我想发短信大概也是如此。
In this same old-school way, I would leave holes in my schedule every weekend that would be large enough for an actual face-to-face date with him, should he ever decide to suggest one. But he never did, leaving me like a dog wanting more than the cursory scratch behind my ear.
同样老套的是，我会在安排每周末的日程时留出时间，时长足以和他进行一场面对面的约会，以防他临时提出这样的建议。但他从来没有，这让显得我像一只狗一样，一直期待着主人不只是在耳朵后边仓促一挠。
And then his texts ceased altogether. For an agonizing two weeks, I wondered what I had possibly texted to end this “relationship,” or whatever it was.
然后他的短消息也彻底没了。在接下来的令人煎熬的两周里，我一直在想有可能是我发了什么东西结束了这段“关系”，或者随便你怎么称呼它。
Until one day my phone rang, and it was Thomas. “How’s it going?” he asked.
直到有一天，我的手机突然响了，是托马斯。“最近怎么样？”他问。
Stunned, I decided not to let on how upset I was. “Fine,” I said. “You?” But this was absurd. We weren’t even in a relationship, were we? What did persistent texting even qualify as? By now, his reputation was so established among my friends that they referred to him derisively as “the Texter,” never using his real name.
我特别吃惊，但我决定不让他知道我有多气恼。“挺好，”我说。“你呢？”但这实在太荒唐了。我们甚至都不是在交往，不是吗？一直那样发短信算是什么？到现在，他喜欢发短信的名声在我的朋友圈里如此根深蒂固，以至于他们都嘲弄地称他是“短信男”，而从不提他真正的名姓。
“How’s the Texter?” they would ask.
“‘短信男’现在怎么样了？”他们会问。
“Oh, fine,” I’d answer. “Nimble-thumbed, I guess.”
“奥，还行，”我会回答。“我想他属于‘拇指一族’。”
Several of them, indignant on my behalf, offered to text him back and tell him he needed to fish or cut bait. I kept asking myself why I put up with such a 2-D relationship, but still held out hope that the constant texting would lead to something else. I also worried I would miss him because I’d gotten used to at least having a virtual boyfriend rather than no boyfriend at all. If I were to end it, I might never give us a chance to recapture the chemistry of our first date.
他们中有好几个很为我不忿，提出要给他回信息，告诉他要么把鱼钓走，要么把鱼钩撤了。我一直在问自己，为什么要忍受这种只有文字交流的平面关系，但又希望不间断地短信联系能让我们有进一步发展。我也担心，自己回头会想念他，因为已经习惯于至少有这么个虚拟男友，而不是压根没有。如果结束这段关系，我可能再也没有机会去重新找回我们第一次约会时的那种化学反应。
During our call, I learned that his two-week silence was from him being on an international business trip. I guess he couldn’t be bothered to text that he would be out of the country and out of touch.
通话期间，我得知之前没有消息的两周，他是去国外出差了。我想他是懒得告诉我，会出国，无法联系。
I made a decision then. He either had to ask me out on a real date, in person, or I would put an end to this silliness. I gave him a deadline (only in my mind, of course) of that Friday, but yet again I left a little open pocket in my schedule, as I had grown accustomed to doing for the previous two months.
当时我做了一个决定。他要不找我来一次真正的约会，我就结束这这段愚蠢的关系。我给了他一个最后期限（当然只是在我心里），就是那周五。我还是在日程表里留了个小空白，就像我过去两个月已经习惯做的那样。
The Friday deadline arrived. And just like always, here came his email inquiring about my weekend plans.
周五的最后期限来了。就像以往一样，他又发来邮件询问我周末有什么计划。
I told him my plans: dinner out on Saturday night and a hike on Sunday. And he told me his: He was going to a movie with friends that evening.
我告诉他计划周六晚上出去吃饭，周日徒步健身。他告诉我他打算那天晚上和几个朋友去看电影。
Here it comes, I thought: the ever-elusive invitation.
又来了，我想：永远若有若无的邀请。
First, though, he asked for my opinion about several movies, which made sense. If I would be joining him, he’d want to make sure I was happy with the movie choice. And then, having heard my thoughts, he wished me a wonderful weekend, thanked me for my advice and signed off, completely clueless to the fact that he had just blown me off for the last time.
他首先问了我对几部电影的看法，这说得通。因为他如果是打算邀请我看电影，会想要确定我喜欢看他选的那部。但听完我的想法之后，他却祝我周末愉快，感谢我提供建议，然后结束了对话，他完全意识不到，他又把我给闪着了，而这将是他最后一次有机会这么做。
Not wanting to seem petty, I didn’t text or email him right away. Instead, I waited until his usual text pinged in the following Monday, asking how my weekend had been.
因为不想显得太小气，我当时没有马上给他发消息或发邮件，而是一直等到他像以往一样在周一发信息来问我周末过得如何。
My fingers paused over the keyboard, my blood boiling, as it had the entire weekend. But I didn’t want him to know how much he had hurt my feelings, so I took several deep breaths and then typed: “I had a wonderful weekend. That said, I want to thank you for being my pen pal the last two months, but thought you should know I already have several pen pals so don’t really need another. Best of luck to you.”
我的手指在键盘上停留了一会，浑身血脉喷张，整个周末我都是这种状态。但我不想让他知道他严重伤害了我的感情，所以我深吸了几口气，然后敲出：“我过了一个很不错的周末。不过，我想感谢你在过去两个月一直做我的笔友，但我觉得你应该知道，我已经有好几名笔友，所以真的不需要再多一个。祝你好运。”
I took another deep breath before hitting send and reveling in the satisfaction that pulsed through my veins.
我又深吸了一口气，然后按了发送键，有一种满足感传遍全身。
He replied instantly: “What are you talking about? Are you saying goodbye to me? Is something wrong?”
他很快就回复：“你在说什么？是要和我分手吗？出了什么事？”
I couldn’t believe it. Did he not have any idea how ridiculous his behavior had been? My fingers flew over the keyboard: “It just floors me that you’ve never thought to ask me on a date after our lunch, but instead seem completely content to text or email with someone who lives less than two miles away from you.”
我简直不能相信。他难道一点也不知道自己的行为有多不可理喻？我快速按动键盘：“想到自上次共进午餐之后，你再没想约我出去，而是好像完全满足于给住处离你不到两英里远的人发短信或邮件，我真的很无语。”
“What are you doing tonight?” he replied. “Dinner at my place?”
“你今天晚上做什么？”他回复道。“要不来我这吃饭？”
I wanted to tell him off, but I was too happy that he’d finally asked me out. Still, that chastising voice in my head kept shrieking: “You can’t accept a date the day of! That would seem so sad and desperate, like you have nothing else going on in your life!”
我想骂他一顿，但又很高兴他终于约我了。不过，我脑子里还有一个严厉的声音在不停喊：“你不能接受一个当天才提出的约会！那看起来太可悲、太迫切了，就好像你自己没有任何别的事要干！”
And then it hit me. I couldn’t do this. I was 31 years old. I had been married. I was tired of games. I wanted a date. An actual face-to-face date. With him.
但是接着我突然想到。我不能这么做。我今年31岁了，曾经结过婚，已经厌倦感情游戏。我想要一个约会，一个真正的面对面的约会，和他一起。
I picked up the phone and dialed. When he answered, I asked, “What should I bring?”
我拿起电话，打了过去。当他接起电话时，我问他，“需要我带点什么过去吗？”
A few years later, the Texter and I married. And now, seven years after that, we have two children, two careers and one life together. We rarely text each other anymore, but every evening I look forward to hearing that ping from my phone with his quick message: “Be home soon.”
几年后，“短信男”和我结了婚。七年后的现在，我们有了两个孩子，两份事业和一份亲密无间的生活。我们彼此之间几乎不再发短信，但每天晚上我都期待听见我的手机叮的一声响，传来他的短信：“很快到家。”