AS brothers who governed large states at the same time, each Bush was bound to be defined in terms of the other. George was the impulsive one who’d stumbled and then swaggered toward success. Jeb was the cogitator, the toiler. George was the extrovert: He worked the room. Jeb was the introvert: He read the books.
作为同时担任大州州长的亲兄弟，两位布什必然会被拿来作比较。乔治爱冲动，会摔跟头，却能在爬起来之后昂首阔步地走向成功。杰布深思熟虑、埋头苦干。乔治性格外向，能跟满屋子的人打成一片。杰布天生内向，爱静静地博览群书。
That was how they were discussed back in 1999 and 2000, and the word on their ideological differences was that George was perhaps a bit more moderate, while Jeb was the truer conservative.
这是1999年到2000年间流传的说法。至于两人在意识形态上的差异，据说是乔治大概更温和一些，而杰布是更为货真价实的保守派。
What a difference a decade and a half make. How the sands of politics shift.
15年的时光造就了多大的变化啊，政坛风云又经过了怎样的变幻！
As Jeb Bush seemingly leans toward a presidential run, many observers are casting him as a centrist. And there are indeed elements of his current message that suggest that if he won “the nomination as well as the presidency, it could reshape Republican politics for a generation,” as Jonathan Martin wrote in The Times late last week. But Martin noted other elements of Bush’s message and record as well, the ones that explain why a separate camp of observers look at him and see someone else. For instance, in Politico Magazine, the journalist S. V. Dáte observed that for him and others “who covered Jeb’s two terms in Tallahassee,” characterizations of Bush as a moderate are “mind-boggling.”
随着杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)貌似在朝着竞选总统的方向靠拢，许多观察人士如今将他归为中间派。的确，他眼下发出的信号中有一些元素表明——借用上周发表在《纽约时报》上的乔纳森·马丁(Jonathan Martin)文章中的措辞——假如他赢得了“党内提名及大选，或许会在一代人的时间里重塑共和党。”不过，马丁也举出了布什发出的信号中的其他一些元素及过去的记录，而它们解释了为何另外一帮观察人士对他有截然不同的看法。比如，记者S·V·戴特(S. V. Dáte)在《政治人》杂志上撰文指出，对于包括他本人在内的“那些报道了杰布在塔拉哈西两个任期的人”而言，将布什划入温和派之列简直令人“匪夷所思”。
Just what kind of Republican is Jeb Bush? That question is being asked with increasing frequency. And the absence of a clear answer, coupled with the insistence on one, is instructive.
那么，杰布·布什到底是哪一类共和党人呢？这个问题正越来越频繁地冒出来。人们无法给出一个清晰的答案，却又坚持一种看法。这件事情本身，实际上能告诉我们一些东西。
It speaks to the fact that most successful politicians aren’t fixed in one place forevermore. They’re the products of certain unwavering convictions and certain adaptations to circumstance, and the measures of each are different at different moments in their careers.
它挑明了一个事实：政坛最成功的人士不会永远固守一方。他们身上，既有一部分不可动摇的坚定信念，又有一部分的顺势而为，而对其中任一部分的判断又会因他们政治生涯中的不同时刻而迥异。
The futile tussle to define Bush also reflects the way ideological yardsticks change over time. Above all else, it exposes the poverty of our political vocabulary.
在如何界定布什上的无谓争执，也反映了衡量意识形态的标尺如何随时间而变迁。除了以上种种，它还暴露了我们政治语汇的贫乏。
Left, center, right. Liberal, moderate, conservative. We reach fast for these labels and itch to put pols in these boxes, no matter how untidy or impermanent the fit. Some of the expected candidates for 2016 are great examples.
左、中、右；自由派、温和派、保守派。我们急不可耐地去贴这些标签，心急火燎地要把政客们放进这类框框里，不管有多别扭，或是有效期多么短。预计会角逐2016年大选的人物当中，有一些提供了生动的例子。
Hillary Clinton: liberal or moderate? Depends on which point in her past you choose. Toward the beginning of Bill’s successful 1992 quest for the presidency, she was part of his decision to steer away from the left, as The Times’s Peter Baker and Amy Chozick recently reported. They noted that in the recollection of Al From, the founder of the Democratic Leadership Council, Hillary pledged, “We’re going to be a different kind of Democrat by the convention.”
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)：究竟是自由派，还是温和派？答案取决于你指向她过去的哪个时间点。时报的彼得·贝克(Peter Baker)和艾米·柯西克(Amy Chozick)在近期的一篇报道中指出，在比尔1992年成功问鼎白宫的竞选的初始阶段，她参与敲定了与左翼保持距离的策略。两名记者写道，“民主党领导委员会”组织(Democratic Leadership Council)的创始人阿尔·弗罗姆(Al From)回忆，希拉里信誓旦旦地表示，“到[民主党]大会上，我们会成为面貌一新的民主党人。”
But there were chapters after Bill’s election when she came across as a familiar kind of Democrat, and then there’s the present, when she’s seen as someone so estranged from some traditional Democratic principles that there’s a movement to draft Elizabeth Warren to challenge her. It apparently gathered steam last week, just as Clinton topped a CNBC poll of 500 millionaires who were asked about their preference for president in 2016. She got 31 percent of the vote, while Bush was second with 18. I await a new “super PAC,” Mills for Hills.
不过，在比尔当选之后，她有时表现得更像人们熟悉的那种民主党人。到了现在，她看起来与民主党的部分传统信条相去甚远，以致于出现了推动伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)去挑战她的运动。这场运动上周声势似乎壮大了一些，而同时，在CNBC针对500名富豪进行的2016总统候选人青睐度调查中，克林顿拔得头筹。她赢得了31%的支持率，而布什以18%位居第二。我可就等着瞧新的“超级政治行动委员会”——富富挺希希(Mills for Hills)——冉冉升起了。
The Republican field is almost always broken down into candidates of the right and those of the center: a schematic to which we journalists cling. It’s hugely flawed this time around. Rand Paul evades it so completely that he gets his own adjective — libertarian — even though some of his positions on social issues contradict it.
在共和党人这边，总是分成右翼候选人和中间派候选人两类。我们新闻工作者也紧紧抓住这种简单粗暴的划分法不放。这一回，可谓大错特错。兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)实在是完全不符合这一标准，于是得到了独有的标签——自由意志主义者——尽管他在一些社会议题上的立场与之相悖。
Chris Christie gets the moderate box, because he was twice elected governor of a blue state; signed legislation granting in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants in New Jersey; pushed criminal-justice reforms that stress rehabilitation; outlawed therapy that aims to turn gay teenagers straight; and accepted the Medicaid expansion under Obamacare. And right after Hurricane Sandy, he and President Obama had their soggy, windswept bromance.
克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)会被归入“温和派”的框里，因为他两次在一个传统上支持民主党的州当选州长；他签署法案，让新泽西州内的无证件移民可以享受州内学费；他推动了强调让犯人改过自新的刑事司法改革；他禁止了让十几岁的同性恋转变成异性恋的治疗；他接受了“奥巴马医改”(Obamacare)要求的联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)扩大项目。此外，就在飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)之后，他和奥巴马总统还在风雨之中展现了澎湃基情。
But Christie also opposes same-sex marriage and abortion rights. He has vetoed some sensible gun-control legislation. And he sidesteps questions about immigration reform. He’s not exactly a paragon of moderation.
然而克里斯蒂也反对同性婚姻和堕胎权利，他否决了一些合理的枪支管控立法，还绕开了移民改革的问题。他并不是温和派的典型人物。
Marco Rubio, another possible presidential contender, isn’t easily labeled either. Back in 2010, when he won election to the Senate, he was presented as a mascot of the right, a Tea Party darling. But he has endorsed a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. And his proposals for making college more affordable and student loans less onerous aren’t just bold. They’re progressive.
另一个可能角逐总统职位的人选是马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)，给他贴标签也并不容易。2010年他赢得参议院选举时，被推为右翼的吉祥物，“茶党”(Tea Party)的宠儿。但是他却支持为无证件移民提供一条取得公民身份的途径。而他提出的压低高等教育成本、减轻学生贷款负担的举措，则不仅仅是果敢，简直称得上进步。
BUSH’S categorization as a moderate owes much to the passion he brings to the issues of immigration and education and his dissent from hard-line conservatives on both. These rebellions are meaningful.
把布什归类为温和派，很大程度上是因为他对移民和教育问题给予了很多热情，而且他在这两个议题上的立场与强硬的保守派存在分歧。这种脱离保守派的反叛很有意义。
So was his commentary from the sidelines of the 2012 presidential race. After a Republican primary debate in which all eight candidates said that they would refuse a budget deal that included $10 of reduced spending for every $1 in tax increases, he made clear that he didn’t agree with the pack. And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.
此外，2012年总统大选角逐期间，他在场外发表的言论也同样很有意义。八名候选人在一场共和党初选辩论中都说，他们会拒绝一项要求税收每提高1美元，就削减10美元开支的预算妥协。布什却明确表示他不同意众人的看法。他还表示共和党已经向右偏移了太多，时至今日，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)这样的人物，在其中会很难受到接纳。
That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist: The poles have moved.
这种评价似乎显示出了布什今天之所以被当成中间派的一个原因：标杆的位置移动了。
But much of his record in Florida is that of the “headbanging conservative” he claimed to be during a first, unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994. (He won the next time, in 1998.) He slashed taxes. He was a friend to gun owners: Florida’s “Stand Your Ground” law was enacted on his watch.
然而他在佛罗里达执政时留下的印记，却像1994年初次参选州长但却失利时宣称的那样，是个“死硬保守派”。（他在1998年第二次竞选时当选。）他削减了税收，也是拥枪者的好友：佛罗里达州的“不退让法”(“Stand Your Ground” law)就是在他任内通过的。
In the case of Terri Schiavo, a Florida woman deemed by many physicians to be in a persistent vegetative state, he intervened on the side of her parents — but against the wishes of her husband, who was her legal guardian — to prevent the removal of a feeding tube. And he was an assertive opponent of abortion rights. He still opposes them, and same-sex marriage.
佛罗里达女子特丽·夏沃(Terri Schiavo)被多名医生认定陷入了持久的植物人状态。在夏沃案中，布什做出干预并支持了其父母的立场，阻止了移除导食管的做法——这违背了夏沃的丈夫也是她的合法监护人的意愿。此外，他当时坚定地反对堕胎权利。现在也仍然反对，而且还反对同性婚姻。
But he learned between his 1994 defeat and 1998 victory to reach out to minorities and speak inclusively and hopefully. When he recently told an audience in Washington that a person had to be willing to lose the Republican primary to win the general election, he was in part alluding to that lesson, and he was telegraphing the tone that a Bush campaign would take. He was also signaling a suspicion of labels and boxes.
不过在1994年的失利和1998年的胜选之间，他学会了向少数族裔推介自己，也学会了以包容和充满希望的态度发表讲话。最近他在华盛顿对听众表示，必须要愿意输掉共和党初选，才能赢得全国大选。他这番话一定程度上是在暗指上述教训，也传达了布什竞选时可能采取的语调。他还流露出对于标签和框框的怀疑。