NATIONWIDE, commencement speakers are preparing remarks to deliver to this year’s crop of college graduates. I was one, and frankly I was a little worried. I wanted to inspire and uplift, but I was well aware that, more often than not, graduation addresses are met with blank stares and tepid applause.
全美范围内的毕业演讲嘉宾都在为他们将向今年的高校毕业生所说的话做准备。我就是其中一员，而且老实说，还有点焦虑。我希望给予听众激励和鼓舞，但我也深知，毕业演讲得到的反馈往往是空洞的眼神和稀稀拉拉的掌声。
Would I encourage the young people to pursue their professional dreams, to find a fun job, to become an entrepreneur or teacher? All of that seemed like solid guidance. But when I asked a few of my 20-something colleagues, they warned me that, while this might sound great to a baby boomer at the podium, to a millennial audience it’s just product advice. It sounds more or less like the famous unsolicited counsel in the 1967 movie “The Graduate,” in which a middle-aged businessman told the young Ben Braddock (played by Dustin Hoffman): “I just want to say one word to you. Just one word. Plastics.”
我是不是应该鼓励年轻人追求职业梦想、找到有趣的工作、成为企业家或教师呢？这些似乎都是不错的建议。不过，问过几名二十出头的同事的意见后，他们警告，台下若是婴儿潮一代，兴许会觉得这样的话还挺好，但在千禧世代听来，就会觉得不过是没有针对性的产品建议。它多少像是1967年的影片《毕业生》(The Graduate)里那则不请自来的著名劝告——一名中年商人告诫本·布拉多克（Ben Braddock，由达斯汀·霍夫曼[Dustin Hoffman]饰演）：“我就想对你说一个词，就一个词。塑料。”
One clue came from looking at how life and career expectations are changing. Back in the late 1970s, human resource scholars began to notice and write about four distinct career patterns in the American economy.
回顾人们对生活和职业的期许发生了怎样的变迁，可以提供一个思路。上世纪70年代末，人力资源领域的学者开始注意到美国经济中四种截然不同的职业道路，并就此著书立说。
In the most conventional career type, which scholars call “expert” or “steady state,” a person held the same job and basic duties — often with the same company or government agency — for decades. A second career type was “linear,” in which all job changes were upwardly mobile in the same career path. Each job paid more than the last and had more responsibility, but rarely deviated from the same basic field. This linear path was the yuppie sine qua non, the mark of a serious person who climbed the ladder.
最寻常的职业模式被学者称为“专家型”或“稳定型”，也就是几十年里干着同样的工作并履行一成不变的基本职责，往往还是在同一家公司或政府机构。第二种职业模式为“线型”，也就是每次换工作都是在同一条职业道路上向上爬，每份工作都比上一份薪酬高、权责大，但几乎不会偏离基本领域。这种线性通道为雅皮士的必经之路，是攀爬经济阶梯的正经人士的一大标志。
The third and fourth models characterized how some younger adults back in the 1980s were seeing their professional lives. The “transitory” career featured no set job or field, and there was little apparent progress in money or responsibility. Let’s call that one “your mom’s worst nightmare.” The “spiral” model looked similar in terms of periodic job and industry changes, but differed in that these changes were purposive, following changing interests, circumstances and personal values. In other words, a spiral career served life purpose more than a product line.
第三和第四种模式则概括了上世纪80年代部分青年对自己职业生涯的看法。“短暂型”职业模式的特点是没有固定的岗位或领域，薪酬和职权上也看不到什么明显的进步。我们可以称之为“妈妈最大的噩梦”。在不时转换岗位与行业上，“螺旋型”模式与之类似，不过区别在于，这些转换是有目的的，遵循了兴趣、环境和个人价值观的变化。换句话说，这种类型的职业道路服务的是生活目标，而非一条产品线。
The spiral model was most fascinating to researchers at the time, representing as it did the new Generation X work force of uninhibited individualists. And indeed, it described me to a T. After graduating from high school, in 1982, I dropped out of college after a year, spent a decade on the road as a musician, dropped back into college, became a college professor teaching economics, and now lead a Washington think tank. I’ve spiraled all over the place for 30 years.
那个时候，“螺旋型”模式最让研究人员着迷，并被认为它象征着抱有无拘无束个人主义思想的X世代职场新人。这套在我身上实在是再合适不过了。1982年高中毕业后，我在大学念了一年，继而辍学，当了10年的音乐家，四处游荡。之后我又回到校园学习，进而成为了大学的经济学教授，当下又领导着华盛顿的一家智库。我这30年就是在各个地方螺旋行进的。
What seemed new when I was a high school graduate is now the norm. To be sure, many young people find only transitory work available during this poor recovery. But even for those who have done well in the job market, “paying their dues” and waiting to rise through some set of professional ranks is laughable. They feel responsible for their lives, and are in search of the diverse experiences that will fulfill them. That means frequent career changes and a willingness to take pay cuts when necessary.
我高中毕业时候看来新鲜的现象如今成了常态。诚然，许多年轻人发现，在当下经济复苏乏力的环境下，只能找到短暂型的工作。不过，就连那些在就业市场上如鱼得水的人，“尽职尽责”地等待在固定的职业道路上升迁，也是件可笑的事情。他们感到要为自己的生命负责，而且在寻找能够充实自我的多种多样的经历。这就意味着，频繁转换职业，还有甘愿在必要的时候接受收入的减少。
Today’s spiraling millennials know intuitively that having a sense of one’s purpose in life is the key to well-being. And research clearly shows they are right. In a 2009 study published in The Journal of Positive Psychology, researchers interviewed 806 adolescents, emerging adults and adults about their purpose in life. A key finding of the study was that being able to articulate a life purpose was strongly associated with much greater life satisfaction than failing to do so.
当下，螺旋行进的千禧世代凭直觉就知道，对人生目标的感知是得到满足的关键。科学研究也证实了这一点。在《正向心理学杂志》(The Journal of Positive Psychology)于2009年发表的一篇研究论文中，研究人员采访了806名青春期少年和成年期前后的人，询问他们的人生目标。这项研究的一个主要结论是，能否阐明人生目标与生活满意度的高低之间存在密切相关性，而在满足感上的这种差距颇为巨大。
In contrast, purposelessness — no matter how closely tied to worldly prosperity — generally defines a hamster-wheel life, alarmingly bereft of satisfaction. “Find a fun job” sounds vaguely Sisyphean. The existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre evocatively termed the sensation of purposeless living the “nausea of existence.” This nausea is exactly the sensation engendered by typical career advice.
相比之下，漫无目的——不管与世俗的富足有多么紧密的联系——一般都意味着在滚轮上奔跑的仓鼠那样的生活方式，完全没有满足感可言，让人警惕。“找到有趣的工作”听来略显徒劳，而存在主义哲人让-保罗·萨特(Jean-Paul Sartre)形象地把人生漫无目标的感觉称为“存在的恶心”。这种恶心恰恰就是惯常的职业建议引发的感觉。
As I prepared to give my remarks — I spoke on Saturday to graduates of Ave Maria University, a Catholic institution in southwestern Florida — I thought about the words of Bach. If anyone had the right to dispense product advice, it was Bach, the creator of more than a thousand published works and considered by many to be the greatest composer who ever lived. But when asked his approach to writing music, he said, “Music’s only purpose should be the glory of God and the recreation of the human spirit.” Bach was a true man on a mission, and the two ingredients of his mission were sanctification and service. It is hard to find a better life purpose than the pursuit of higher consciousness and benevolence to others.
我周六将前往佛罗里达州西南部的天主教学校圣母颂大学(Ave Maria University)进行毕业演讲。准备自己的演说辞时，我想起了巴赫的话。如果说哪个人有权针对所有人给出建议，那就是巴赫。他发表了上千部作品，并被许多人看做有史以来最伟大的作曲家。然而，当被问到作曲方法时，他回答，“音乐唯一的目的应当是上帝的荣耀与重塑人类精神。”巴赫名副其实地肩负着使命，而他的使命中包含的两大元素即为神圣与奉献。很难找到比追求崇高意识与行善于人更好的人生目标了。