ACCORDING to the United States government, nearly 7 out of 10 American adults weigh too much. (In 2010, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention categorized 74 percent of men and 65 percent of women as either overweight or obese.)
根据美国政府数据，美国约有十分之七的成人超重。2010年，美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)指出，74%的男性和65%的女性属于超重或者肥胖。
But a new meta-analysis of the relationship between weight and mortality risk, involving nearly three million subjects from more than a dozen countries, illustrates just how exaggerated and unscientific that claim is.
但是一项新的关于体重和死亡风险间关系的综合分析揭示了，这种说法是多么的夸张和不科学。该项分析在十多个国家对近300万研究对象进行了研究。
The meta-analysis, published this week in The Journal of the American Medical Association, reviewed data from nearly a hundred large epidemiological studies to determine the correlation between body mass and mortality risk. The results ought to stun anyone who assumes the definition of “normal” or “healthy” weight used by our public health authorities is actually supported by the medical literature.
上周，这份发表在美国医学会杂志(Journal of the American Medical Association)上的综合分析对近100项大型流行病研究的数据进行了分析，以确定体重与死亡风险之间的关系。如果有人认为，政府公共健康部门使用的“正常”或者“健康”体重等概念是有医学文献依据的，看了这些综合分析的结果一定会大吃一惊。
The study, by Katherine M. Flegal and her associates at the C.D.C. and the National Institutes of Health, found that all adults categorized as overweight and most of those categorized as obese have a lower mortality risk than so-called normal-weight individuals. If the government were to redefine normal weight as one that doesn’t increase the risk of death, then about 130 million of the 165 million American adults currently categorized as overweight and obese would be re-categorized as normal weight instead.
美国疾控中心和美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health，简称NIH)的凯瑟琳·M·弗莱戈(Katherine M. Flegal)及其同事的这项研究发现，所有被列为超重的成人以及大多数被列为肥胖的人比所谓体重正常的人的死亡风险更低。如果政府重新定义，把不会增加死亡风险的体重定义为正常体重，那么当前1.65亿美国成人中约有1.3万被列为超重和肥胖的人将会被重新归类为体重正常人群。
To put some flesh on these statistical bones, the study found a 6 percent decrease in mortality risk among people classified as overweight and a 5 percent decrease in people classified as Grade 1 obese, the lowest level (most of the obese fall in this category). This means that average-height women — 5 feet 4 inches — who weigh between 108 and 145 pounds have a higher mortality risk than average-height women who weigh between 146 and 203 pounds. For average-height men — 5 feet 10 inches — those who weigh between 129 and 174 pounds have a higher mortality risk than those who weigh between 175 and 243 pounds.
具体地说，研究发现，在被列为超重的人中，死亡风险降低了6%，被列为一级肥胖（最低一级，大多数肥胖症属于这一类）的人中死亡风险下降了5%。这意味着，中等身高（约1.62米）的女性，体重在108磅和145磅之间的比体重在146磅和203磅之间的死亡风险更高。中等身高（约1.78米）的男性，体重在129磅到174磅之间的比体重在175磅到243磅之间的死亡风险更高。
Now, if we were to employ the logic of our public health authorities, who treat any correlation between weight and increased mortality risk as a good reason to encourage people to try to modify their weight, we ought to be telling the 75 million American adults currently occupying the government’s “healthy weight” category to put on some pounds, so they can move into the lower risk, higher-weight categories.
这样一来，如果我们使用公共卫生部门的逻辑，他们利用体重和死亡率上升之间的联系来鼓励人们控制体重，那么我们就应该鼓励那些现在被美国政府列为“体重健康”的7500万美国成年人增加体重，进入风险更低、体重更高的范围。
In reality, of course, it would be nonsensical to tell so-called normal-weight people to try to become heavier to lower their mortality risk. Such advice would ignore the fact that tiny variations in relative risk in observational studies provide no scientific basis for concluding either that those variations are causally related to the variable in question or that this risk would change if the variable were altered.
现实中，劝说所谓体重正常的人为了降低死亡风险而去增重当然讲不通。这样的建议忽略了一个事实：观察性研究对应的死亡风险的微小变化，并不能作为科学依据，得出这些变化是由体重这个变量引起的，或者改变这个变量，就能改变死亡风险这样的结论。
This is because observational studies merely record statistical correlations: we don’t know to what extent, if any, the slight decrease in mortality risk observed among people defined as overweight or moderately obese is caused by higher weight or by other factors. Similarly, we don’t know whether the small increase in mortality risk observed among very obese people is caused by their weight or by any number of other factors, including lower socioeconomic status, dieting and the weight cycling that accompanies it, social discrimination and stigma, or stress.
这是因为，观察性研究只记录数据关联：如果被定义为超重或者轻度肥胖的人群面临的死亡率出现细微变化，我们不知道，这一变化在多大程度上是由体重增加引起的，还是由其他因素导致的。同样，严重肥胖的人群死亡率出现微小升高，我们也不知道这是由体重引发的，还是其他任何因素引发的，其中包括较低的社会经济地位、饮食习惯以及伴随饮食结构的体重周期性变化、社会歧视和耻辱感，或者是压力。
In other words, there is no reason to believe that the trivial variations in mortality risk observed across an enormous weight range actually have anything to do with weight or that intentional weight gain or loss would affect that risk in a predictable way.
换句话说，没有理由相信，在大的体重范围内观察到的死亡风险的微小变化与体重有任何关系，或者认为主动增减体重能影响死亡风险。
How did we get into this absurd situation? That is a long and complex story. Over the past century, Americans have become increasingly obsessed with the supposed desirability of thinness, as thinness has become both a marker for upper-class status and a reflection of beauty ideals that bring a kind of privilege.
我们是如何陷入这种荒谬的处境中的呢？这说来话长了。过去一个世纪以来，瘦逐渐变成上流社会的标志，并被视为理想美体的标准，能给人带来种种好处，美国人因此越来越崇尚瘦，以瘦为美。
In addition, baselessly categorizing at least 130 million Americans — and hundreds of millions in the rest of the world — as people in need of “treatment” for their “condition” serves the economic interests of, among others, the multibillion-dollar weight-loss industry and large pharmaceutical companies, which have invested a great deal of money in winning the good will of those who will determine the regulatory fate of the next generation of diet drugs.
除此之外，毫无根据地将至少1.3亿美国人，以及世界其他地方的几亿人列为有“问题”，需要“治疗”，这符合一些人的经济利益。比如规模达到几十亿、上百亿的减肥产业和大型制药公司。它们为了赢得药品监管者的好感，不惜投入重金，而监管者则会决定下一代减肥药的命运。
Anyone familiar with history will not be surprised to learn that “facts” have been enlisted before to confirm the legitimacy of a cultural obsession and to advance the economic interests of those who profit from that obsession.
熟悉历史的人不会对此感到惊讶，此前也有先例，“事实”被用来证明某种文化偏执的合理性，满足那些从这种偏执中获利的人的经济利益。
Don’t expect those who have made their careers on fomenting panic to understand that our current definition of “normal weight” makes absolutely no sense.
不要期望那些以制造恐慌为职业的人会理解，我们当前对“正常体重”的定义其实完全没有意义。