THE conventional wisdom among social scientists is that there’s little payoff in investing in troubled teenagers. As the University of Chicago economist James J. Heckman argued in 2011, “we overinvest in attempting to remediate the problems of disadvantaged adolescents and underinvest in the early years of disadvantaged children,” when the potential gains are supposedly the largest.
社会科学领域的专家通常认为，在问题青少年上进行投资收效甚微。就像芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的经济学家詹姆斯·J·赫克曼(James J. Heckman)于2011年提出的那样，“我们过多地投资于试图修正底层青少年的问题，又过少地投资于底层孩童年纪尚小的阶段，”而在那个时候进行干预的潜在回报应该是最大的。
But this consensus is wrong, as we now know from recent scholarship. Take YouthBuild, which runs 260 programs in 46 states for about 10,000 16- to 24-year-olds. Nearly all of them high-school dropouts and poor; 31 percent have a criminal record, and 29 percent are parents.
不过，从近期的学术研究来看，这种共识并不正确，YouthBuild就是一个例子。这家机构在美国46个州设立了260个项目，为万名左右16到24岁的青少年提供服务。他们几乎清一色地从高中辍学，家境贫困；其中31%拥有犯罪记录，29%已为人父母。
YouthBuild’s model is straightforward — half academics and half on-the-job training. “In high school, no one gave a damn, but here, they really care about you,” one young man at the YouthBuild program center in Cambridge, Mass., told me. “They have your back.”
YouthBuild的模式相当直接——一半是学业，另一半是在职培训。“在学校的时候，根本没人在乎，但是在这里，他们真的关心你，”在马萨诸塞州坎布里奇的YouthBuild项目中心接受采访的一名男孩告诉我。“他们会支持你。”
Kids who have “reached a dead end” are offered “a community that helps them find their purpose,” Dorothy Stoneman, who founded YouthBuild, told me. Seventy-seven percent of those who join earn a high school diploma, a G.E.D. or an industry-recognized credential, and 61 percent are placed in jobs and postsecondary education. The recidivism rate, within one year of enrollment in a YouthBuild program for those who have been in prison, is under 10 percent, well below the average.
创办YouthBuild的多萝西·斯通曼(Dorothy Stoneman)表示，“走投无路”的年轻人能在这里得到“一个帮助他们找到自我价值的社区。”参与项目的人中，77%获得了高中文凭、普通教育发展证书(GED)或行业认可的资质，61%目前在工作或是接受超越中学水平的教育。曾经入狱的人当中，参与YouthBuild项目不到一年，重新犯罪的比例少于10%，大大低于平均水平。
Teachers and counselors make themselves available around the clock, and not just for schoolwork — they go to court with their students and help them get a driver’s license or draft a college application. Most of the participants build or repair homes for poor or homeless people, earning a modest stipend.
在YouthBuild项目中，教师和辅导员会时刻帮助学生，而且不限于学业方面——他们会陪学生上庭、帮学生拿驾照或准备大学申请资料。多数参与者会为穷人或流浪者建造或修整住所，并得到不多的报酬。
Melody Barnes, formerly President Obama’s chief domestic policy adviser, says YouthBuild graduates are “determined, smart and civic-minded, and but for programs like this one they would have been left behind,” she said.
曾在奥巴马总统身边担任国内政策首席顾问的梅洛迪·巴恩斯(Melody Barnes)表示，完成YouthBuild项目的学生“坚定、聪慧、具有公民意识，他们多亏了这样的项目才没有掉队。”
Summer-job programs zero in on teenagers who are on the cusp of dropping out. Left to their devices, odds are that they’ll wind up on the streets or in jail. Summer internships are intended to reverse this trajectory by giving youngsters solid work experience and a paycheck, as well as the skills that spell success: dependability, perseverance, being a team player, understanding when to walk away from conflict.
他们的暑期工作项目专门针对处于辍学节骨眼上的青少年。让其放任自流的话，他们很可能沦落街头或身陷囹圄。暑期实习意在扭转这种趋势，方法是赋予年轻人坚实的工作经验和一定的报酬，以及能通往成功的技能：可靠、坚韧、团队精神，并且懂得避免冲突。
Since the 1960s, New York City has run the nation’s largest publicly managed summer jobs program. Nearly 50,000 14- to 24-four-year-olds spend six weeks working, not only in publicly funded day care centers, summer camps, hospitals and city agencies, but also high-tech firms and Fortune 500 companies. After Hurricane Sandy struck in 2012, interns helped clean the city’s beaches.
上世纪60年代起，纽约市一直在施行全美规模最大的官方暑期工作项目。每年有近五万名14到24岁的青少年参与到为期六周的实习中，涉及的岗位不仅是在公共拨款的日托所、夏令营、医院和市政机构，还有高科技公司和《财富》500强企业。2012年飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)来袭后，实习生们帮助清理了纽约的滩地。
Because there are more applicants than jobs, the young employees are selected by lottery; less than half of applicants are accepted. My colleague Alexander Gelber, and his fellow economists Adam Isen at the Treasury Department and Judd B. Kessler at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, used this natural experiment to track nearly 300,000 adolescents who entered the lottery between 2005 and 2008.
由于申请人数超出了岗位数量，这些年轻人要经过抽签环节；不到一半的申请者能获得工作机会。我的同事亚历山大·盖尔伯(Alexander Gelber)、财政部的亚当·伊森(Adam Isen)和宾夕法尼亚大学沃顿商学院(Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania)的贾德·B·凯斯勒(Judd B. Kessler)利用这一天然的试验对2005年至2008年间参与抽签的近三十万青少年进行了追踪研究。他们三人同为经济学家。
The program kept many of them from getting into trouble. Those who were 19 or older during the summer they worked were 54 percent less likely to wind up in a New York State prison than those who didn’t have that experience. They were nearly 20 percent less likely to die young. Because homicide accounted for fully half of the deaths in their peer group, it’s plausible that the “soft skills” they acquired enabled them to avoid possibly deadly situations.
该项目让许多人免遭厄运。参与暑期实习时至少为19岁的人当中，后来进入纽约州立监狱的可能性比没有实习的人低54%。他们早逝的可能性也低了近20%。由于他杀占到同年龄组死亡原因的整整一半，这其中的理由大概是，他们掌握的“软技能”让自身避免了可能致死的境遇。
A 2012 study by Institute for Education and Social Policy at New York University found that attendance improved, especially for youths in serious academic trouble. About 100 more students with low prior attendance passed the state’s high-stakes English and math exams than those who were turned down by the program, giving them a shot at college.
纽约大学教育与社会政策研究所(Institute for Education and Social Policy at New York University)在2012年进行的一项研究发现，该项目提高了学生的出勤率，尤其是那些在学业上遭遇过严重问题的年轻人。之前频繁缺课的学生中，实习后通过重要的州级英语和数学考试的人数，比起没有中签的人多出了大约一百。这让他们有了上大学的可能性。
Chicago began a new summer jobs initiative in 2012. Teenage violence — especially murders of young black men — was a major concern. The hope was that, through a combination of work experience and intense mentoring — a similar model as YouthBuild — adolescents could learn to stop and think before turning a conflict into an assault.
2012年的时候，芝加哥启动了一项新的暑期工作计划。青少年涉足暴力活动——尤其是黑人男青年遭谋杀——是该市当时的一大困扰。这项计划希望，通过工作经历与集中辅导相结合的方式——也就是与YouthBuild类似的模式——青少年可以学会在将冲突升级为暴力之前停下来进行思考。
Among those who held summer jobs, there were 43 percent fewer arrests for violent crime over the next 16 months, compared with those who hadn’t participated, a study last year found. “This impact wasn’t just because these teens were busier,” Sara Heller, a criminologist at Penn, told me. “Most of the decline happened afterward. This moment in kids’ lives — when they are showing signs of disconnection from school and may have gotten in trouble with the law, but haven’t dropped out — may be the sweet spot for low-cost interventions.”
去年发表的一项研究发现，在有过暑期工作的人当中，在接下来的16个月里因暴力犯罪而被捕的几率要小43%。“其中的影响不光是他们更忙了，”宾大的犯罪学家萨拉·赫勒(Sara Heller)告诉我。“多数下降发生在后来。孩子生活中的这个时刻——显示出脱离学校的迹象，也许在违法，但又还没辍学——可能就是进行低成本干预的最佳时期。”
More than five million young men and women between the ages of 18 and 24 are neither working nor in school. And every year, 1.3 million teenagers drop out of high school. If no one reaches out to these disengaged youths, many of them face bleak futures — “being in jail or dead,” as Ms. Stoneman bluntly put it. We must invest in programs that can turn things around for these kids.
美国有逾五百万年龄在18到24岁的青少年既没有工作，也没有上学。每年从高中辍学的人数达130万。如果没有人向这些疏离的年轻人伸出援手，那么他们当中就会有不少人面临惨淡的前景——用斯通曼的直白语言来说，“不是班房就是死亡。”我们必须对那些能让这类孩子转变命运的项目加以投资。