Maya has had a tough time slimming down. After 16 months of dieting, she’s dropped 10 pounds and 6 ounces.
玛雅经历了一段艰苦的减肥历程。在16个月减肥后，她减轻了10磅6盎司。
True, that’s more than 40 percent of her body weight.
事实上，这超过了她体重的40%。
At her heaviest, the domestic shorthair cat tipped the scale at 24.9 pounds. She looked like a furry Pilates ball.
在她最重的时候，这只家养的短毛猫重达24.9磅。她看起来像个毛绒绒的普拉提球。
The decision to lose weight was not Maya’s; it was her owners’, Larissa and Doug Peluso, of Eatontown, N.J. Maya’s mobility was decreasing: She could no longer jump on their bed, and they knew she might be suffering from joint pain and facing diabetes. Their vet said they had to help her regain her feline figure.
决定减肥的不是玛雅，而是她的猫奴，纽约新泽西州伊顿敦的拉里萨和道格·佩鲁索。玛雅的活动能力下降了：她连他们的床都跳不上去了，而且他们知道她可能受关节疼痛折磨，并面临糖尿病的威胁。他们的兽医说他们必须帮助她恢复猫的身材。
Still, they hesitated.
然而，他们有些犹豫。
If they reduced portions, Mrs. Peluso worried, “Would Maya get aggressive and depressed?” With no treats to curry Maya’s good graces, “Maybe she would hate us.”
如果他们减少喂食，佩鲁索夫人担心“玛雅将会变得具有侵略性和容易沮丧？没有很好的手段恢复玛雅的优雅身材，”可能她会恨我们。
But a new study in The Journal of Veterinary Behavior suggests that owners need not fear rejection if they restrict their cats’ calories. After an eight-week diet, the cats actually demonstrated more affection after they were fed, their owners reported.
但《兽医行为》期刊的一个新研究指出，猫奴不需要害怕因为限制猫的食物而被猫讨厌。根据猫奴报告，经过8周减肥后，猫实际上在被喂食时表现得更亲密。
Veterinarians not involved in the study, by researchers at Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, hailed the findings.
这项研究是由康奈尔大学兽医学院的研究人员进行的，其他兽医对这个发现也点个赞。
“Maybe owners will now be more likely to do what’s healthy for their cats,” said Dr. Bonnie Beaver, executive director of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists. ”
“也许猫奴现在可以做更多对猫健康有益的事”，美国兽医行为学院执行主任邦尼·毕沃说。
In recent years, the epidemic of overweight and obese cats has alarmed veterinarians. “My friends in general practice now say they are surprised when a cat comes in with an ideal body weight,” said Dr. Martha G. Cline, a veterinary nutritionist at Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls, N.J., who monitors Maya’s weight.
近些年，超重和肥胖猫的流行引起了兽医的担忧。“我的朋友经常说，他们对于上门的猫有理想的体重才感到惊讶。”在纽约新泽西州亭顿福斯红色银行兽医院的兽医营养师玛莎·G·克莱因说。
Many factors contribute to weight gain in house cats. Among them is the complexity of the human-animal bond, namely how humans demonstrate love with food, and how cats learn “affectionate behavior” in order to get fed.
许多因素造成家猫体重增加。其中就包括人和动物互动的复杂行为，即人通过喂食表达对猫的喜爱，猫则学会通过“亲密行为”来获得喂食。
“We say, ‘dogs have owners, cats have staff,’” said Dr. Richard E. Goldstein, chief medical officer at the Animal Medical Center in New York. “A cat learns to manipulate us very well: when she’s hungry, she’s the most affectionate cat in the world. And people will do anything to keep their cats happy.”
“我们说，狗有主人，猫有猫奴，”纽约动物医疗中心首席医疗官理查德·E·戈尔茨坦医生说。“猫学会了操纵我们的好方法：当她饿的时候，她就变成了世界上最黏人的猫。人们愿意做任何事使他们的猫开心。”
Many owners “free-feed” cats, letting them graze at will. But bored indoor cats, like bored indoor humans, may eat beyond satiety. “Cats don’t self-regulate well,” said Dr. Goldstein.
许多猫奴喂猫很随意，让他们随时可以大吃一顿。但是无聊的宅猫，像无聊宅在家里的人一样，可能吃太饱了。“猫并不擅长自律，”戈尔茨坦医生说。
Concerned with the human role in feline obesity, Cornell researchers asked: If a cat’s food were reduced, would its behavior change? If so, how would owners translate those changes? For the study, 48 cats, each at least 25 percent over ideal weight, were put on one of three restricted diets, equal in calories. Owners answered extensive questionnaires about their cats:
康奈尔研究员询问肥胖猫相关的人：如果猫的食物减少，它的行为是否改变？如果改变，猫奴如何解释这些变化？为了研究，他们找了48只猫，每只至少超过理想体重25%，进行了限制三分之一食量的减肥行动。猫奴回答了关于他们猫的详细问卷调查：
Before the diet, when your cat was hungry, did it beg? Meow? Pace? After feeding, did it jump in your lap? Since the diet, does your cat bat at you? Hide? Hiss? Steal food?
减肥前，你们的猫什么时候会饿？会讨食物吗？喵喵叫吗？走来走去吗？喂食后，会跳到你们的大腿上吗？减肥后，你们的猫是否对你不好？藏起来吗？嘶叫吗？偷食物吗？
Good news, cat owners! More than three-quarters of the cats lost weight. And though the frequency of pre-feeding behavior increased — begging, meowing, pacing — it did not begin earlier. (Translation: The cats may have intensified owners’ guilt about giving them less food, but did not protract their misery.)
好消息，猫奴们！超过四分之三的猫体重减轻了。虽然喂食前的行为（讨要食物、喵喵叫，走来走去）发生频率增加了，但并没有开始更早（翻译：猫可能通过这些行为加强猫奴因为少给食物的愧疚感，但不会在不饿的时候也来折磨猫奴）。
Better yet, owners felt that despite the restricted feeding, the cats did not turn vindictive. Instead, owners believed the cats showed more affection. After feeding, the cats would more often purr and sit in the owner’s lap.
更重要的是，猫奴觉得尽管限制了喂食量，猫并没有怀恨在心。相反，猫奴相信猫表现更黏人。喂食后，猫会更经常呼噜和坐到猫奴的大腿上。
“We don’t know why,” said Dr. Beaver. “But cats don’t hold a grudge if you limit their food.”
“我们不知道为什么”毕沃医生说。“但猫并不会因为你限制他们的食物而记仇。”
Dr. Emily D. Levine, the study’s lead author, now a veterinary behaviorist in Fairfield, N.J., said that one reason cats gain too much weight is that owners “misread” their pet’s behavior, unwittingly reinforcing it with treats. .
艾米莉·D·列文医生，该研究报告的主要作者，现在是纽约新泽西州费尔菲尔德兽医行为专家，说猫体重增加太多的一个原因是猫奴“误解”他们宠物的行为，不知不觉增加了喂食。
When cats rub up against their owners throughout the day, owners like that behavior, she said, so they feel guilty and think, “ ‘Oh, they must want more food.’ So people feel good feeding their cats and don’t know other ways to give them affection.”
她说，当猫整天蹭着猫奴，猫奴喜欢这种行为。因此感觉亏欠，并认为猫一定想要更多的食物。于是人们觉得多喂猫挺好，而没有想过通过其他方式表达他们的感情。
And sometimes, if cats are expecting to be fed and the owner isn’t obeying, the cat may swat. “So you feed them to stop the behavior. There’s a learned component. It works.
有时，如果猫期望喂食但猫奴没有顺从，猫可能乱抓。“因此你会喂他们来阻止乱抓。这就成为有效的条件反射了。”
“A lot of cats are bored and that’s the bigger picture,” she said. “If the only thing they have to do all day is eat, they will ask for more and more.” Rather than overfeed cats to please them, she said, owners could engage their natural curiosity with interactive play, even training them — really — to go to their place and wait for food.
她说：“许多猫很无聊，这是更大的问题。如果他们整天只知道吃，他们就会要越来越多的食物。”除了喂更多的食物来取悦猫，她说，猫奴可以通过互动游戏激起他们天生的好奇心，甚至训练他们去他们的位置等候食物。
Over the years, Mrs. Peluso didn’t notice as Maya, now 11, gained weight, a phenomenon similar to that of parents who do not see their children becoming obese.Putting Maya on a diet was hard. “The begging! The meowing! I felt like I was torturing her!” she said.
多年来，佩鲁索夫人没注意到玛雅已经11岁了，这么胖了，这和一些父母没有发现他们的小孩变肥胖的现象类似。让玛雅进行减肥是困难的。“喵喵叫讨食物！我感觉我在折磨她！”她说。
With just a few more pounds to reach her goal, Maya is a different cat. “The light is turned on inside her,” said Mrs. Peluso. Maya chases toys and plays hide-and-seek with their other cat. “She can jump on our bed and sleep with us,” she said. “We unknowingly got her into that situation, but we’ve been able to bring her back.”
再减几磅到目标体重，玛雅就和之前不一样了。“她又变得轻盈了。”佩鲁索夫人说，玛雅可以追逐玩具和其他猫玩捉迷藏游戏了。“她可以跳上我们的床和我们一起睡了。”她说，“我们不知不觉把她喂肥胖了，但我们可以让她恢复体重。”
Some behavior modification obstacles remain, particularly when the couple goes on vacation. Mrs. Peluso’s mother cat-sits.
一些阻止猫减肥的问题还存在，特别是当佩鲁索夫妻度假时，佩鲁索夫人的母亲来照看猫的时候。
“My mother says, ‘Where are the treats? The cats need to know I love them!’” And so, Mrs. Peluso said, “I have to hide cat treats from my mother.”
“我妈说，‘猫哪需要减肥？猫只需要知道我爱他们！’”因此，佩鲁索夫人说“我必须瞒着我妈帮猫减肥。”