EASTSOUND, Wash. — FROM where I live on Orcas Island in Puget Sound, north of Seattle, I can see Cherry Point across the wind-whipped waters of the Salish Sea. This sandy promontory jutting into Georgia Strait has become the focus of heated debate here in the Pacific Northwest.
华盛顿州伊斯特桑德——从我在西雅图以北的普及湾(Puget Sound)奥卡斯岛(Orcas Island)的住所，隔着在风中涌动的沙利旭海(Salish Sea)，可以望见切里波因特(Cherry Point)。伸进乔治亚海峡的这块海角布满沙子，现在它已经成了太平洋西北地区引发激烈辩论的一个主题。
Peabody Energy, Carrix and other corporations hope to build a shipping terminal at Cherry Point to export nearly 50 million metric tons of coal to Asia annually. They ballyhoo the jobs the terminal may bring to our region but say nothing about the profits they will reap from selling subsidized coal.
博地能源(Peabody Energy)、Carrix及其他企业希望在切里波因特建造一座船运码头，每年可以向亚洲出口5000万吨煤炭。它们大肆宣扬这座码头可以为本地区创造的就业机会，但是对销售受到补贴的煤炭可以赚取的丰厚利润，它们却绝口不提。
Opponents decry the prospect of the dirty, smelly, noisy trains blocking railroad crossings all across Washington State as they transport coal here from the Powder River Basin in Montana and Wyoming. They also warn that coal dust from the terminal will pollute nearby waters and harm our dwindling populations of herring, threatened Chinook salmon and endangered killer whales.
反对者大声疾呼，在把产自蒙大拿州和怀俄明州保德河盆地(Powder River Basin)的煤炭运到这里时，又脏又臭又吵的火车会阻塞怀俄明州所有的铁路道口。他们还警告，码头的煤炭粉尘会污染附近的水域，损害日益减少的鲱鱼种群，威胁大鳞三文鱼和濒危物种虎鲸。
But much larger issues of national and global concern are at stake. The low-sulfur Western coal, strip-mined from federal lands, is valuable public property. The federal government’s leasing of these lands at low cost to strip miners made some sense a few decades ago when the United States needed low-sulfur coal to reduce the amount of sulfur dioxide that was being emitted by coal-burning power plants and causing acid rain. But today, as utilities convert to cheap natural gas and American coal use declines, mining companies are seeking customers in China, Japan and Korea.
然而这里还涉及远更重大的国内和全球问题。这些低硫煤是从美国西部的联邦土地上露天开采的，属于宝贵的公共财产。几十年前，联邦政府将这些土地廉价批租给露天矿开采企业有一定道理，因为当时美国需要低硫煤来减少煤电厂排放的二氧化硫，这种物质会造成酸雨。但今天，随着电力企业转而采用廉价的天然气，美国煤炭的使用量出现下降，采矿企业正在从中国、日本和韩国寻找客户。
Shipping this subsidized coal to Asian countries to help them power their factories, which undercut American manufacturers, makes little sense. Yes, this coal will help those countries produce cheap consumer goods for sale in stores across the United States. But it will also promote the continued transfer of industrial work to Asia, especially if the Trans-Pacific Partnership goes through. Is that good for American workers?
将这些受到补贴的煤炭运送到亚洲国家，帮助它们为那里的工厂提供能源，而那些工厂相对美国制造业还有价格优势，看不出这么做有什么道理可言。的确，这些煤炭能够帮助那些国家制造廉价的消费品，可以在美国各地的商店里出售。但它也会推动工业生产持续向亚洲转移，如果跨太平洋伙伴关系协议（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）能够获得通过，这种情形会尤其严重。这对美国工人好吗？
The coal is extracted from federal lands so cheaply that taxpayers should be outraged. A 2012 study by the nonprofit Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis concluded that the government’s failure to obtain fair market value for coal mined in the Powder River Basin had deprived taxpayers of almost $1 billion annually over the past 30 years. Last year, the Interior Department’s inspector general similarly reported that the agency was failing to collect sufficient lease payments. And last week, the Government Accountability Office concluded that the coal leasing program run by the Bureau of Land Management operates without sufficient oversight to ensure that fair lease prices are being paid and does not fully account for export sales in evaluating these fees.
从联邦土地上开采这些煤炭的成本十分低廉，纳税人应该感到愤怒。非营利机构能源经济与金融分析研究所(Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis)在2012年发布的一份研究报告中总结道，由于政府未能从保德河盆地开采的煤炭中取得公平的市场价格，在过去30年中，纳税人每年约损失10亿美元。去年，美国内政部(Interior Department)的总督察长也给出了相似的报告，称该部门未能收取足够的批租费用。上周，美国政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)认定，负责煤田批租计划的土地管理局(Bureau of Land Management)在运作中没有通过充分的监管来确保获得公平的批租价格，此外在确定费用时也并未充分考虑出口的销量。
“Taxpayers are likely losing out so that coal companies can reap a windfall and export that coal overseas, where it is burned, worsening climate change,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, who requested the study.
马萨诸塞州民主党参议员爱德华·J·马基(Edward J. Markey)表示，“纳税人承担了损失，而煤炭公司却收获了横财，之后它们又把煤炭出口到海外，在那里焚烧掉之后还会加剧气候变化。”
When coal companies can strip mine Western coal for less than $10 a ton and sell it in Asia for nearly 10 times as much, lucrative profits can be banked all along the global supply chain. No wonder the Australian coal company Ambre Energy is planning to build two coal terminals on the Columbia River. In all, those terminals and the one proposed for Cherry Point could ship 100 million metric tons of coal to Asia annually.
如果煤炭公司开采西部煤炭的成本每吨不到10美元，再以将近10倍的价格出售到亚洲，覆盖全球的一整条供应链都能赚得丰厚的利润。难怪澳大利亚煤炭公司昂布尔能源(Ambre Energy)正计划在哥伦比亚河(Columbia River)建造两座大型的煤炭码头。上述码头，以及提议在切里波因特建造的一座码头每年能够向亚洲运送1亿吨煤炭。
Asian nations hungry for energy have much looser pollution regulations and will pay dearly for coal, despite its noxious impacts on health and the environment. The health impact of coal emissions has recently become obvious in China, where this pollution contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010, according to the Global Burden of Disease study, published in The Lancet, a British medical journal.
渴求能源的亚洲国家对污染的监管要宽松得多，而且愿意支付高昂的价格购买煤炭，尽管它会对健康和环境产生恶劣的影响。煤炭排放物对健康的影响在中国已经变得十分明显，世卫组织全球疾病负担(Global Burden of Disease)研究显示，2010年，污染在中国造成了120万人过早死亡，研究结果发表在英国医学期刊《柳叶刀》(Lancet)上。
And this pollution is unfortunately not confined to Asia. Wafted aloft on winds blowing across the Pacific, it reaches North America, depositing fine particles, mercury and other toxins on land and in water. Carbon dioxide emitted by burning coal adds inexorably to the global overburden of greenhouse gases warming the planet. Projected exports from Cherry Point alone could result in over 100 million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually. The gas has already begun to boost the acidity of near-shore waters, threatening Washington’s shellfish industry.
很不幸，这种污染并不局限于亚洲。污染物随风而起，飘过太平洋，到达北美，使得细微颗粒、汞及其他有毒物质沉积在土壤或水中。导致气候变暖的温室气体已经给全球带来巨大负担，而燃烧煤炭排放的二氧化碳会不可避免地加重这种负担。单单是切里波因特的预计出口量，每年就能够产生1亿吨二氧化碳。这种气体已经开始提高沿岸水域的酸度，进而对华盛顿州的贝类产业构成威胁。
The billions of tons of coal burned in Asia every year contribute markedly to global warming. Should the United States be selling them subsidized coal and encouraging this impending disaster?
亚洲每年燃烧的数十亿吨煤炭，显著地加剧了全球变暖。美国还应该向亚洲出售补贴的煤炭，助长这场近在眼前的灾难吗？
Our nation needs a new, transparent, clean-energy policy that no longer turns a blind eye to the many negative impacts of coal burning — or to companies trying to sell coal to other nations playing catch-up in the global economy. A cornerstone of this policy must be the rational use of our vast reserves of Western coal as we ramp down the overuse of what is, by far, the dirtiest fossil fuel.
美国需要一套透明的清洁能源新政策，不应该再对烧煤的诸多消极影响视而不见，而一些煤炭企业在向那些力图经济赶超的国家出售煤炭，对这些企业也不能再视而不见了。这项政策的一个基石必须是合理使用储量巨大的西部煤炭，同时遏制过量使用这种最最肮脏的化石燃料的情况。
Is our economy to become a resource economy like Australia’s, exporting mineral wealth to Asia in return for mining and shipping jobs, plus cheap consumer goods? Should we support this Faustian bargain by selling our coal so inexpensively? What kinds of jobs and living conditions do we really want to foster, and where? These are questions a rational and much-needed, 21st-century energy policy would address.
我们的经济难道要变成像澳大利亚那样的资源经济，通过向亚洲国家出口矿物质财富，来换取采矿和航运业的就业岗位，以及廉价的消费品？我们应该以如此低廉的价格销售煤炭，支撑这种浮士德式的交易吗？我们到底希望在哪些地区，创造怎样的就业岗位和居住条件呢？我们亟需一个21世纪的、理性的能源政策来应对这些问题。
A great and growing plume of carbon dioxide continues to rise over Asia as transnational corporations are shifting manufacturing operations overseas. We can take a resolute stand at Cherry Point and begin to halt this boondoggle. A good first step would be one Senator Markey advocates: a moratorium on new coal leases.
随着跨国公司将制造部门转移到海外，亚洲国家排放出的大量二氧化碳仍在持续增多。我们可以在切里波因特采取坚决的立场，停止这摊烂事儿。马基参议员提出的一则建议就是很好的初步举措：暂停批租新的煤田。