The reality of rising American inequality is stark. Since the late 1970s real wages for the bottom half of the work force have stagnated or fallen, while the incomes of the top 1 percent have nearly quadrupled (and the incomes of the top 0.1 percent have risen even more). While we can and should have a serious debate about what to do about this situation, the simple fact — American capitalism as currently constituted is undermining the foundations of middle-class society — shouldn’t be up for argument.
在美国，贫富差异的现实状况越来越严峻。自上世纪70年代末以来，在下层的那一半劳动力的实际工资停滞不前，甚至还出现下滑，而顶层那1%却上升了将近三倍（最顶层的0.1%增幅的还要大）。我们可以也应该就如何应对这一局面展开严肃的讨论，然而，有一个浅白的事实是不需要争论的——当前构建起来的美国资本主义，正在动摇中产阶级社会的根基。
But it is, of course. Partly this reflects Upton Sinclair’s famous dictum: It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it. But it also, I think, reflects distaste for the implications of the numbers, which seem almost like an open invitation to class warfare — or, if you prefer, a demonstration that class warfare is already underway, with the plutocrats on offense.
可是，当然，还是争起来了。这在一定程度上印证了厄普顿·辛克莱(Upton Sinclair)的著名格言：当一个人要靠着对某件事情的不理解来拿薪水时，要让他理解这件事情是很困难的。但我觉得，这同时也反映出，这些数字背后的含义是多么令人反感，看上去简直就是在挑起阶级战争——或者你可以会觉得，这表明阶级战争已经打响了，进攻方是财阀。
The result has been a determined campaign of statistical obfuscation. At its cruder end this campaign comes close to outright falsification; at its more sophisticated end it involves using fancy footwork to propagate what I think of as the myth of the deserving rich.
随之而来的是一场誓要混淆统计数据真相的战役。这场战役在某些地方格外的不加掩饰，几乎就是直截了当地歪曲事实；某些地方则老辣一些，用眼花缭乱的步法苦心经营，编制出一套富人理应富有的谎言。
For an example of de facto falsification, one need look no further than a recent column by Bret Stephens of The Wall Street Journal, which first accused President Obama (wrongly) of making a factual error, then proceeded to assert that rising inequality was no big deal, because everyone has been making big gains. Why, incomes for the bottom fifth of the U.S. population have risen 186 percent since 1979!
在歪曲事实方面的例子，看看《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)的布雷·斯蒂芬斯(Bret Stephens)最近的一篇专栏就够了，文章先是（错误地）指责奥巴马总统犯了一个事实性的错误，接着声称贫富差异的加剧没什么大不了，因为每个人都获得了很大的增长。那就是为什么美国底层的五分之一人口自1979年以来收入增长为186%！
If this sounds wrong to you, it should: that’s a nominal number, not corrected for inflation. You can find the inflation-corrected number in the same Census Bureau table; it shows incomes for the bottom fifth actually falling. Oh, and for the record, at the time of writing this elementary error had not been corrected on The Journal’s website.
如果你觉得这个数字有问题，你是对的：它只是个名义数据，没有排除通胀因素。经过通胀校正的数据，也可以在那份人口普查局(Census Bureau)表格里找到；从中可以看出底层五分之一人口的收入其实是下降的。噢，请注意，截止本文刊出之时，《华尔街日报》网站还没有改正这个低级错误。
O.K., that’s what crude obfuscation looks like. What about the fancier version?
好了，以上我们看到明目张胆的扭曲是什么样。那么哪些是做的比较漂亮的呢？
I’ve noted before that conservatives seem fixated on the notion that poverty is basically the result of character problems among the poor. This may once have had a grain of truth to it, but for the past three decades and more the main obstacle facing the poor has been the lack of jobs paying decent wages. But the myth of the undeserving poor persists, and so does a counterpart myth, that of the deserving rich.
我曾经说过，保守派看来在死守一个观点，即贫穷基本上是穷人的性格问题的结果。这个说法也许曾经有那么一丁点道理，但在过去三十年里，穷人面对的主要障碍，更多地是能给出公道薪水的工作机会匮乏。然而贫穷是活该的谎言依然在继续，相对应地，富有乃天经地义的胡话也不绝于耳。
The story goes like this: America’s affluent are affluent because they made the right lifestyle choices. They got themselves good educations, they got and stayed married, and so on. Basically, affluence is a reward for adhering to the Victorian virtues.
他们是这样说的：美国的富人之所以富有，是因为他们在生活方式上做出了正确的选择。他们让自己接受良好的教育，他们结婚并维持住婚姻，诸如此类。基本上富有就是谨守维多利亚时代美德的一个回报。
What’s wrong with this story? Even on its own terms, it postulates opportunities that don’t exist. For example, how are children of the poor, or even the working class, supposed to get a good education in an era of declining support for and sharply rising tuition at public universities? Even social indicators like family stability are, to an important extent, economic phenomena: nothing takes a toll on family values like lack of employment opportunities.
这个说法有什么问题？即便以它自己的标准，它假设的机会也是不存在的。比如，在一个公立大学的资金支持遭到削减，学费大幅升高的年代，有多少穷人的孩子，甚至劳动阶层的孩子，能得到良好的教育？连家庭稳定性这样的社会指标，在相当程度上都是一个经济现象：就业机会匮乏对家庭价值观造成的损害是难以估量的。
But the main thing about this myth is that it misidentifies the winners from growing inequality. White-collar professionals, even if married to each other, are only doing O.K. The big winners are a much smaller group. The Occupy movement popularized the concept of the “1 percent,” which is a good shorthand for the rising elite, but if anything includes too many people: most of the gains of the top 1 percent have in fact gone to an even tinier elite, the top 0.1 percent.
然而这种讹说的主要问题在于，它没能辨清贫富差距加大的真正赢家是谁。白领职场人士，即便是相互结成了夫妻，处境也顶多算过得去。大赢家是一个小得多的群体。在“占领”运动中流行起来的“1%”这个词，对上升中的精英阶层是一个不错的概括，不过如果非要说的话，它划得范围太大了：顶层这1%中，有一个更小的群体得到了绝大多数的利益，即最顶层的0.1%。
And who are these lucky few? Mainly they’re executives of some kind, especially, although not only, in finance. You can argue about whether these people deserve to be paid so well, but one thing is clear: They didn’t get where they are simply by being prudent, clean and sober.
这些天之骄子都是些什么人？虽说并非全部，但绝大多数都是金融领域的某种高层。这些人有没有资格挣这么多，我们可以具体探讨，但有一点是毫无疑问的：他们能混到这个水平，可不是靠着谋略、清白和清醒那么简单。
So how can the myth of the deserving rich be sustained? Mainly through a strategy of distortion by dilution. You almost never see apologists for inequality willing to talk about the 1 percent, let alone the really big winners. Instead, they talk about the top 20 percent, or at best the top 5 percent. These may sound like innocent choices, but they’re not, because they involve lumping in married lawyers with the wolves of Wall Street. The DiCaprio movie of that name, by the way, is wildly popular with finance types, who cheer on the title character — another clue to the realities of our new Gilded Age.
那为什么理应富有的讹说还能如此坚挺呢？主要是通过一种以稀释为手段的扭曲策略。为贫富差距辩护的人几乎永远不会说那1%，更别提真正的大赢家了。实际上他们会说上层的20%，顶多说到5%。听起来似乎是个无害的选择，其实不是，因为这里面把已婚律师和华尔街的狼群混为一谈了。顺便说一句，迪卡普里奥的那个叫《华尔街之狼》的电影在金融圈子里相当受欢迎，主人公的事迹博得了他们的喝彩——这是我们认识新镀金时代现实的又一个线索。
Again, I know that these realities make some people, not all of them hired guns for the plutocracy, uncomfortable, and they’d prefer to paint a different picture. But even if the facts have a well-known populist bias, they’re still the facts — and they must be faced.
不过，我也知道这种现实会让一些人感到不安，总有没被财阀收买的人，他们希望能描绘出一幅不一样的风景。然而，尽管这些事实带有众所周知的民粹主义偏见，但它们终归是事实——我们也终归需要面对。