“I RECOMMEND this loan for older parents like you,” said the college financial aid adviser.
“像您这样年龄稍长的父母，我推荐这种贷款，”一个大学财务资助顾问说。
In red, he had circled PLUS, the government loan available to parents of undergraduates, which has a fixed rate of 7.9 percent. Repayment wouldn’t begin until six months after my daughter graduates college, he said, and best of all, when I die, the remaining balance is forgiven (not always the case with a private loan).
他用红笔在PLUS贷款项目上画了一个圈。PLUS贷款是针对大学生家长推出的一种固定利率为7.9%的政府贷款。他说，贷款可以在我女儿大学毕业半年后开始偿还，这项贷款最大的优点是，在我死后，尚未偿还的余额会被豁免（并非所有私人贷款都有这样的规定）。
So if I played my cards right, I could borrow the quarter of a million dollars to finance her education at a private college, attend her graduation and then, six months later, drop dead.
如此一来，如果我处置得当，可以借贷25万美元资助女儿上私立大学，参加她的毕业典礼，然后在她毕业六个月后赶紧死掉。
Great.
太妙了。
Couples are having children at an older age (I’m the 61-year-old father of a freshman); college costs keep soaring; earnings are stagnant — and so, for many parents, the only way to pay for that education is putting off retirement and continuing to work.
现在，夫妇生育孩子的年龄越来越晚（我今年61岁，孩子刚上大一）；大学费用不断飙升；工资收入处于停滞状态——所以，对很多父母来说，支付子女学费的唯一方式就是延迟退休，继续工作。
“Education debt is contributing to the huge increase in overall financial debt in this country, which is likely delaying the ability of people to retire,” said Lori A. Trawinski, senior strategic policy adviser for the AARP Public Policy Institute.
“教育债务导致这个国家的财政债务总额大幅上升，人们的退休年龄可能会因此而延迟，”美国退休人员协会公共政策研究所(AARP Public Policy Institute)高级战略政策顾问洛里·A·特拉温斯基(Lori A. Trawinski)说。
While there are no reliable statistics on whether parents are delaying retirement to pay for their children’s college, all indicators point that way.
虽然没有可靠的统计数据表明父母为支付孩子的大学费用而延迟退休，但所有指标都指向了这一趋势。
First, the median age of mothers with a 17-year-old has risen, to 45 in 2011 from 42 in 1980. Fathers, too, are having children later, at a median 48 compared with 46.
首先，17岁孩子母亲的年龄中位数出现上升，从1980年的42岁上升至2011年的45岁；父亲的年龄中位数也出现上升，从46岁上升到48岁。
While college costs go up, up, up, household income has not: parents of 17-year-olds earned on average $87,000, down from $88,000 in 1980, according to census data calculated in 2010 dollars.
虽然大学费用一直在上升，但家庭收入却未出现上涨：据人口普查数据，按2010年美元币值计算，17岁孩子父母的平均收入为8.7万美元，低于1980年的8.8万美元。
And older parents are taking on more debt to pay for college. In 2010, 9 percent of 55- to 64-year-olds had student loans to pay off, compared with 4 percent in 1989, according to data compiled by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve.
为支付子女大学费用，年长的父母背负的债务越来越沉重。据联邦储备委员会(Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System)编纂的数据，2010年，在55岁-64岁年龄段的父母中，有9%需要偿还子女学生贷款，而在1989年，这一比例为4%。
Sheila Coonerty, 65, a psychologist in Santa Cruz, Calif., has a 21-year-old daughter, Nina, who is finishing up at a community college. Nina has applied to universities in the state system as well as private colleges.
现年65岁的希拉·库纳蒂(Sheila Coonerty)是加利福尼亚州圣克鲁兹的一位心理医生，她21岁的女儿尼娜(Nina)即将完成社区学院的课程。尼娜已经申请了州立大学系统中的大学，也申请了私立大学。
Ms. Coonerty, a single mother, estimates that even if her daughter chooses a public university in California, which is about half the cost of a private, it will cost $27,000 a year for tuition, room and board. When Ms. Coonerty attended the state university in Santa Cruz in the 1960s, she paid $210 in annual tuition and about $150 a month for an apartment. When her mother attended Berkeley, it was free.
库纳蒂是一名单亲妈妈；据她估计，即便女儿选择加州的公立大学——其学费约为私立大学的一半，每年学费及食宿费用也将达到2.7万美元。在20世纪60年代库纳蒂就读加州大学圣克鲁兹分校时，她每年的学费为210美元，公寓房租是每月150美元，而当年她母亲就读加州大学伯克利分校(Berkeley)时则是免费的。
Ms. Coonerty says that without the college costs, she would have reduced her therapy schedule to a few hours a week by now. “The money that would have given me a cushion in retirement will finance Nina’s undergraduate degree,” she said. “I’m O.K. with that.” She said she grew up in an Irish immigrant family that sacrificed for her and she will do the same for her daughter, who is studying the sciences. “If I can get her undergraduate years paid off without her taking on debt,” Ms. Coonerty said, “then she can handle graduate school with loans.”
库纳蒂女士表示，如果不是为了给女儿上大学攒钱，她本可以将自己每周的接诊时间减少到几个小时。“本来应该用于退休的那笔钱将会用来资助尼娜攻读学士学位，”她说：“我愿意这么做。”她说她成长在一个爱尔兰移民家庭，家人为她付出了牺牲，而她也愿意为学理科的女儿做同样的事情。“如果我能付清她的大学费用，不让她背上债务，”库纳蒂说，“那么，到时她就可以自己贷款读研究生了。”
Ralph Tamlyn, 59, a senior information technology architect, has worked for I.B.M. in Westchester County, N.Y., for 36 years, saving a third of his salary during most of those years for an early retirement. “The pleasure of life is time — for people and recreation and travel, just having the time to read,” he said. “I don’t want to work through my 60s while I’m still able to do these things.”
现年59岁的拉尔夫·塔姆林(Ralph Tamlyn)是一位高级信息技术架构师，已经在纽约州威斯特彻斯特郡的IBM公司工作了36年。为提前退休，几乎每年他都会将三分之一的薪水存起来。“人生的乐趣在于时间——与别人共处的时间、娱乐的时间、旅行的时间乃至阅读的时间，”他说：“我不想年过60还继续工作，虽然我仍胜任这份工作。”
He said he had always tried to put family first, turning down promotions that would have required considerable traveling. “I decided it was important for me to be around because you don’t know when your child will need you.”
他说他一直以来都把家庭放在第一位，但凡需要经常出差的晋升职位，他都拒绝了。“对我来说，重要的事情就是守在家人身边，因为你不知道什么时候你的孩子就需要你，”他说。
As it turned out, his son, Sean, a freshman at Lehigh University in a five-year business and engineering program, needs him. So when Mr. Tamlyn leaves I.B.M., he plans to build a consulting business.
果不其然，现在他的儿子肖恩(Sean)需要老爸出手相助。肖恩是利哈伊大学(Lehigh University)的大一新生，就读的是五年制商业与工程课程。所以，塔姆林先生在离开IBM公司后，现在计划开一家咨询公司。
Why spend the $250,000 that could have enabled him to retire in his early 60s? “Because he’s my son and I love him dearly. A good education will give him a good launch in life.”
为什么他要为儿子掏出25万美元，而这笔钱本可以确保他在60岁出头就退休？“因为他是我的儿子，我非常爱他。良好的教育会让他的未来有一个好起点，”他说。
As for me, I haven’t taken out that PLUS loan. It creeps me out to think that the sooner I die, the better off my family will be. However, I haven’t ruled it out. 
我现在还没有申请PLUS贷款。一想到自己死得越早对家人贡献越大，我就感到不寒而栗。不过，我并没有排除这个选项。