SIXTY years ago this week, as Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay approached the summit of the world’s highest mountain, they were stopped by a 40-foot wall of rock and ice. It was, Hillary later wrote, “a formidable looking problem ...We realized that at this altitude it might well spell the difference between success and failure.”
60年前的本周，当埃德蒙·希拉里(Edmund Hillary)和丹增·诺盖(Tenzing Norgay)在向世界最高峰的峰顶进发时，被一堵40英尺（约合12米）高的断面拦住了去路，断面是由岩石和冰组成的。希拉里后来写道，“看上去是个大难题……我们意识到，在这个海拔高度上，它可能决定着我们的成败。”
Employing the skills he had learned in the New Zealand Alps, Hillary jammed his feet, hands and shoulders into a thin crack between a ridge of ice and the rock and, as he put it, “levered myself” up the wall. Then he brought Tenzing up on a tight rope, and together they climbed the final 300 feet to become the first humans to stand on the summit of Mount Everest.
利用自己在攀登新西兰南阿尔卑斯山脉时学到的技巧，希拉里把自己的手脚和肩膀挤进隆起的冰层和岩石上一个狭窄的裂缝里，正如他所说的，“用我自己撬”开了那堵墙。然后，他用绷紧的绳子把丹增拉了上去，两人一起爬完了最后的300英尺，成为最早登顶珠穆朗玛峰的人。
Today, that 40-foot wall is called the Hillary Step. Each May, large numbers of climbers line up to attempt it, causing a lengthy — and dangerous — backup. But this past week, it was reported that the Expedition Operators Association, a Nepali organization that manages teams climbing Everest, has proposed a solution to this final obstacle on the standard route to the top: putting a permanent ladder on the Hillary Step.
如今，那一处40英尺高的断面被称作希拉里台阶。每年5月，大量登山者会排着队尝试通过断面，造成长时间且很危险的阻塞。但就在上周，有报道称，尼泊尔管理珠峰登山队的机构探险运营协会(Expedition Operators Association)已经为登顶珠峰常见路线上这个最后的障碍提出了一个解决办法：在希拉里台阶上安放永久性的梯子。
Between 1987 and 2009, I went on 11 expeditions to Mount Everest, reaching the top seven times. I’ve climbed both up and down the Hillary Step six times. I think the ladder is a bad idea. It won’t solve the real problem, which is overcrowding on the most famous route in mountaineering. At its best, installing a permanent ladder to surmount the Hillary Step would be like slapping a Band-Aid on an artery that’s hemorrhaging.
在1987年至2009年期间，我参加过11次攀登珠峰的探险，7次登顶，上下6次攀爬经过希拉里台阶。我觉得，安放梯子是个糟糕的主意。它不会解决真正的问题，即登山界最著名路线上的过度拥挤问题。为越过希拉里台阶而安装永久性梯子，充其量就像在正在大出血的动脉上贴创可贴一样。
Because guided commercial expeditions on Everest have become so popular, scores or even hundreds of clients go for the top on the same day. Each May, the weather forecast pinpoints the optimal dates for a summit thrust. Most of the teams seize that precious window, as a kind of “group think” takes hold. That is what causes the overcrowding. And now that fixed ropes are strung by Sherpas up every foot of the South Col route, from base camp at 17,000 feet to the summit at 29,035 feet, a perilous traffic jam inevitably forms on the final ridge. Because of their dependence on the fixed ropes, clients can move no faster than the slowest person in the queue. It’s become routine to have to wait two or three hours to tackle the Hillary Step.
因为有导游带领的商业珠峰探险已经变得非常流行了，同一天里会有几十名甚至几百名客户向峰顶进发。每年5月，天气预报会指出哪些天是向峰顶冲刺的最佳时间。在某种“团体迷思”的作用下，大多数登山队都会抓住那宝贵的机会。这才是导致过于拥挤的原因。而且，既然在从海拔1.7万英尺的营地到2.9035万英尺的峰顶的南坳路线上，全程都有夏尔巴人拴好的固定绳索，危险的交通堵塞势必会在最后的山脊处形成。因为对固定绳索的依赖，这些客户的移动速度不能超过队伍中最慢的那个人。为通过希拉里台阶而等两、三个小时已经变成了家常便饭。
Even if a ladder is bolted to the rock on the Hillary Step, it won’t alleviate the bottleneck that inevitably develops there on summit day. Climbers will still clip their ascenders (mechanical devices that grip ropes) to the fixed lines that parallel and safeguard the ladder, and because there’s no alternative to that narrow passage, the two-to-three hour wait will still impose its treacherous delay. For that matter, wearing goggles, down suits and oxygen masks, mountaineers can hardly see their own feet, so climbing down the ladder promises to be every bit as difficult as rappelling the Step on a fixed line.
即使在希拉里台阶的岩石上拴一架梯子，也不会缓解必将在登顶那天形成的瓶颈。登山者依然会把上升器（夹紧绳索的机械装置）夹在梯子两侧起保护作用的固定绳索上，同时，因为除了那条狭窄的通道外没有其他的路，两到三小时的等待还会造成危险的耽误。就此而言，戴着护目镜和氧气面罩而且穿着羽绒衣物的登山者几乎看不到自己的双脚，因此，从梯子上往下爬肯定和沿着固定绳索滑下希拉里台阶一样困难。
It’s the traffic jam that causes all the trouble. Climbers run out of bottled oxygen and collapse, or they push upward long after a sensible turnaround deadline and end up descending in the dark, or they succumb to hypothermia and frostbite simply because they’re forced to stand in place for hours, waiting their turn. My fear is that if the ladder is installed, even more climbers will throng to Everest, convinced that a metal contraption has solved all the problems of the South Col route.
造成一切麻烦的是交通阻塞。登山者会因用完瓶装氧气而晕倒，或因在合理的返程截止时间过后很久才开始攀登而最终摸黑下山，或因被迫在原地站着等待数小时而体温下降，被冻伤。我害怕的是，如果安装了梯子，届时涌向珠峰的人甚至还要更多，他们相信，一个巧妙的金属装置已经解决了南坳路线上的所有问题。
A ladder isn’t the answer. Nor can the government of Nepal be expected to regulate how many climbers are on Everest, let alone how many go for the summit on a given day. It will be up to the climbers themselves to coordinate their schedules to avoid overcrowding. This is going to be very hard to do. Personal ambition, a herd mentality and summit fever all too easily overwhelm good judgment.
梯子不是解决问题的办法。也不要指望尼泊尔政府能控制珠峰上的登山者，更别说每天的冲顶人数了。要靠登山者自己协调各自的计划，避免出现过度拥挤。这一点实施起来会很难。个人的雄心壮志、从众心理以及冲顶热都很容易影响理性的判断。
Aside from these practical concerns, there’s an aesthetic issue at stake. The Hillary Step is a crucial part of the majestic challenge Everest still poses. Just when you think you’ve got the summit in the bag, the mountain throws one last roadblock across your path. It’s the final test you pass to earn the summit.
除上述实际问题外，还有一个美学问题。珠峰至今仍是一个极高的挑战，而希拉里台阶是其中一个关键组成部分。就在你以为自己十拿九稳地登上了顶峰时，珠峰抛下了最后的路障，横亘在你面前。这是你登上峰顶需要通过的最后考验。
When I first climbed the Hillary Step in 1991, there was only a short section of tattered rope in place. Unwilling to trust it, I climbed the 40-foot wall without using the rope. Thus I surmounted the Step the same way Hillary had, and it was deeply gratifying to solve its technical difficulties with no aids other than the ice ax in my hand and the crampons on my boots.
1991年我第一次爬希拉里台阶时，只有一短截旧绳子可以用。不愿信任绳子的我没有使用它便爬过了那一处40英尺高的断面。因此，我是用和希拉里一样的方式翻过了希拉里台阶，同时，除手里的冰斧和靴子上的鞋底钉之外，没有借助其他任何东西便解决了台阶的技术困难，让我对自己非常满意。
The glory of mountain climbing lies in the fact that success is never guaranteed. In recent years, Everest has been degraded by its sheer popularity. Let’s not degrade it further. Let’s leave the Hillary Step as close as we can to what Hillary and Tenzing confronted at 11 a.m. on May 29, 1953.
登山之美在于，你从来无法保证自己会成功。近年来，珠峰的地位已经因它的大受欢迎而降低了。我们不要再进一步降低它的地位了。我们尽量让希拉里台阶接近希拉里和丹增在1953年5月29日上午11点看到它时的样子吧。