The University of Toronto recently stirred up a bit of controversy by offering an uncritical class on “Alternative Medicine.” A variety of bloggers and journalists brought up many valid concerns about the curriculum, but there is a much larger problem: No one is sure how best to teach that subject.
因为开了一门对“替代医学”不加批判的课程，多伦多大学最近引起了一些争议。各方记者和博客就这一课程提出了很多并非没有依据的担忧，但还有一个比之大得多的问题是：没人知道，怎样才能最好地教授这门课。
The dichotomy, however, between alternative and traditional medicine, or between Eastern and Western medicine, is a false one. We would be much better off if we could reframe the issue.
但是，替代医学和传统医学、或东方和西方医学这样的两分法是不可取的。如果能给问题换一个表述，对我们要好得多。
People often think of Eastern or alternative medicine as more “natural.” Many feel that Western medicine is built around technology and products produced in a lab. They’re not entirely wrong. Many of the gains that have been made in traditional medicine have been the result of innovation in laboratories.
人们往往认为东方医学，或说替代医学更加“自然”。很多人觉得，西方医学的基础是科技和实验室里研发的产品。这种想法也不完全错。我们在传统医学领域取得的很多成果，的确是实验室创新的结果。
But that doesn’t mean that everything doctors are taught in medical school involves a drug or device. I talk to patients all the time about diet and exercise. I don’t do this because there’s a company making money off it. I do it because both of these things have been proven to be important for health.
但那不意味着，所有医生在医学院学习的东西一定涉及药物或医学设备。我一直跟病人讲要注重饮食和锻炼。我这么做，不是因为有公司可以从中赚钱，而是因为这两件事都已经被证明对健康非常重要。
Nor do all medications get cooked up in a lab. We recommend folic acid, which is a B Vitamin, for pregnant women because research has shown that it reduces the risk of major birth defects in newborns. We all know that adequate intake of vitamin C prevents scurvy and that vitamin D prevents rickets.
而且，实验室研发各种药物也不是随便乱造的。我们建议孕妇补充叶酸——维生素B族的一种，是因为有研究显示它可以减少新生儿罹患先天畸形的几率。我们都知道，摄入足够的维生素C可以预防坏血病，而补充维生素D可以预防佝偻病。
None of these things are controversial to physicians. We recommend them all the time. That’s not because they were developed in the Western Hemisphere. It’s because they have been subjected to the rigor of scientific investigation — and found to have merit.
这些药物对内科医生来说都不存在争议。我们一直都这么建议，不是因为这些药物是在西半球研发的，而是因为它们经过了科学调查的严格检验，已被证实确有价值。
There are many other forms of nontechnological medicine that have the weight of scrutiny behind them. In a meta-analysis published just a few years ago, researchers looked at all the accumulated randomized controlled trials examining how acupuncture fared in treating people with chronic pain. They found that not only did acupuncture work better than no-acupuncture control groups, but there were also significant differences between acupuncture and sham acupuncture. This suggests that not all of the benefits are placebo effects.
还有很多其他形式的非技术类疗法也经过同样程度的详细审查。在几年前发表的一篇元分析论文中，研究人员就针灸在治疗慢性疼痛中的效果进行随机对照试验。在对所有累积数据进行分析后，他们发现不仅针灸比没有接受针灸的对照组效果好，而且真正的针灸和伪针灸的效果也存在很大差别。这一研究显示，不是所有的疗效都只是安慰剂效应。
People have been treating many mental health problems with therapy for years. Full disclosure: I’m one who has been treated. I’ve never taken any of the long-term psychotropic drugs, and many patients prefer not to if possible. Austin Frakt, my Upshot co-contributor, wrote recently about the evidence supporting cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, as well as for a host of other health problems. Even mindfulness, or meditation, has been studied extensively, and found to be pretty effective in treating anxiety and mood problems. I’ve been convinced enough by this evidence to try meditation myself.
很多精神健康问题早已经开始使用心理治疗。实话实说：我自己就接受了心理治疗。我没有吃过任何长效的精神治疗药物，很多病人也倾向于尽可能不吃。和我同在时报Upshot栏目撰稿的奥斯汀·弗拉克(Austin Frakt)最近写了一篇文章，列举了认知行为疗法对失眠症和许多其他健康问题有效的一些证据。就连正念引导，或冥想，都被大量研究证实对治疗焦虑症和情绪问题非常有效。看了这些证据，我都已经足够信服，准备自己也试试冥想了。
I would argue that all the therapies I mention here aren’t considered complementary therapies — they’re often just considered therapies. That’s because they’ve been studied, and they’ve proved to work. Too often, though, those who consider themselves supporters of alternative medicine disdain the idea that any of their treatments need to be studied. They make an appeal to the fact that their medicine is more natural; has been used for long periods of time; or has the support of many people in other cultures.
我想说的是，这里提到的所有疗法都不被认为是辅助性的——它们往往被当做正经八百的治疗方法。那是因为有研究证实他们的确有效。但偏偏是那些自认是替代疗法支持者的人，往往不认为这些疗法需要得到研究。他们会拿以下事实进行辩驳：他们的疗法更自然；已经被使用了很长时间；或者在其他文化中有许多人支持它。
Of course, not long ago, all therapies could be described in this way. The application of modern science allowed us to devise and conduct trials that could prove or disprove a treatment’s efficacy or harm. Many of the drugs we use today had natural origins. Digitalis comes from foxglove, quinine from cinchona bark, penicillin from bread mold and aspirin from willow tree bark. Conventional medicine may have improved our ability to purify these substances, but it acknowledges that many natural therapies hold value.
当然，在不久前，我们其实可以说，所有疗法都是如此。现代科学的应用使我们能够设计和进行各种实验，以证实或证伪一种疗法的效果或危害。如今使用的很多药物都是从自然物质中提取的。洋地黄制剂来自毛地黄属植物，奎宁来自黄金鸡纳树，青霉素来自面包霉，而阿司匹林来自柳树皮。传统医学或许提高了我们提纯这些物质的能力，但它其实也认可了自然疗法的作用。
Yet science rejects many forms of complementary medicine as ineffective. Just a few months ago, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia released a report in which it fully reviewed 225 studies of homeopathy, the practice of treating sick people with small amounts of substances that cause similar symptoms in healthy people. They found no well-designed studies that found it to outperform a placebo or function as well as any conventionally approved therapies. Their conclusions echoed a previous report from Britain, and those found in many Cochrane systematic reviews.
但科学却拒绝承认很多形式的辅助疗法也有作用。就在几个月前，澳大利亚国家健康和医学研究委员会(National Health and Medical Research Council)发布了一份报告，其中全面评估了225项顺势疗法，这种医学实践的治疗方式是让病人服用少量可以在健康人中引起类似症状的物质。他们发现，其中没有任何一项精心设计的研究可以证明，顺势疗法的作用大过安慰剂，或者和传统认可的疗法效果一样。他们的结论，和英国之前的一份报告，以及科克伦(Cochrane)系统评价资料库上的很多结论不谋而合。
My friends who believe in homeopathy don’t really care.
我那些相信顺势疗法的朋友并不在乎这些。
Those who favor conventional medicine, though, can be just as blinded. Too often, when confronted with evidence that advanced technology might not be providing benefits, the medical community refuses to change its behavior. My Upshot articles are littered with examples of this, including potentially too-widespread mammography screening, advanced life support and many surgical procedures. Supporters of Western medicine are often blind to their own prejudices.
不过，那些支持传统医学的人一样可以很盲目。每次碰到有人拿出先进技术有可能没有带来好处的证据给他们看，医学社区的人们往往拒绝为此改变自己。我在Upshot栏目发表的文章不乏这样的先进技术的例子，包括使用范围可能有些过于广泛的乳房造影筛查、高级生命支持和和很多外科手术。西方医学的支持者往往觉察不到自己的偏见。
Butterbur, a plant extract, has been found in medical studies to be as effective as antihistamines in treating allergic rhinitis, without the sedating side effects conventional drugs often have. Horse chestnut seed extract appears to be safe and effective in the short-term treatment of chronic venous insufficiency. Peppermint oil can be used to relieve the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome. I know of few physicians who promote these therapies as often as they do prescription or over-the-counter drugs. Granted, that could be because it’s potentially hard to be sure of supplements you’re buying, but there are ways to overcome those problems.
医学研究发现，柴峰斗叶提取物治疗过敏性鼻炎和抗组胺药物一样有效，而且没有传统药物经常有的副作用。七叶树种子提取物似乎在慢性静脉功能不全的短期治疗方面又安全又有效。薄荷油可以用来缓解肠道易激综合征的症状。我认识一些内科医生，他们推荐这类疗法的几率，不比开处方药或成药低。当然，这跟买来的保健品不能保障品质有关，但总有办法克服这些问题。
In 1998, The Journal of the American Medical Association published a theme issue on alternative medicine for common chronic medical conditions. The randomized controlled trials within it offered evidence that spinal manipulation did not improve tension-type headaches, that acupuncture and acupressure didn’t reduce pain caused by H.I.V.-related peripheral neuropathy and that the supplement Garcinia cambogia did not help with weight loss. However, the same issue contained studies that showed that yoga-based interventions improved carpal tunnel syndrome more than wrist splinting, that the Chinese practice of moxibustion significantly increased fetal activity and fixed breech presentations before delivery, and that Chinese herbal medicine appeared to improve symptoms in some patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Although some of this research has been continued, to my knowledge neither side of medicine has changed practices or beliefs much based on this work.
1998年，《美国医学会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)发表了一期杂志，主题是用替代疗法治疗常见的慢性疾病。其中的随机对照试验为以下结论提供了证据：推脊不能改善紧张性头痛；针灸和穴位按摩不能减少与艾滋病相关的周围神经病变带来的疼痛；补充藤黄果提取物并不能帮助减肥。但是，同一期也有研究显示，以瑜伽为主的干预治疗改善腕管综合征(carpal tunnel syndrome)的效果比腕部夹板更好；艾灸能大大提高胎儿活跃性，还能在产前矫正臀位胎位；以及中成药似乎能帮助一些病人改善肠激惹综合征症状。虽然有些研究还在继续，但据我所知，医学界的两方都没有因为这些研究而改变太多自身的实践或观念。
In an accompanying editorial, Phil Fontanarosa and George Lundberg, two of JAMA’s editors, wrote: “There is no alternative medicine. There is only scientifically proven, evidence-based medicine supported by solid data or unproven medicine, for which scientific evidence is lacking.”
本期杂志的社论中，菲尔·丰塔纳罗萨(Phil Fontanarosa)和乔治·伦德伯格 (George Lundberg)两位编辑写到，“这世上没有替代医学。只有经过科学证明、有坚实的数据支撑的循证医学，或缺乏科学证据、未经检验的医学。”
I’d change this only by adding, “There is no conventional medicine.”
我只想补充一句：“这世上没有传统医学。”