THE other day, I got an email from a 21-year-old college senior about sex — or perhaps more correctly, about how ill equipped she was to talk about sex. The abstinence-only curriculum in her middle and high schools had taught her little more than “don’t,” and she’d told me that although her otherwise liberal parents would have been willing to answer any questions, it was pretty clear the topic made them even more uncomfortable than it made her.
有一天，我收到了一封来自21岁大四学生的邮件，说的是性方面的事情，或者倒不如说是，谈论性让她如何地难以启齿。她在初中和高中只接受过禁欲教育，除了“不要搞”之外，几乎什么都没教。她告诉我，自己的父母其实是自由派，什么问题都愿意回答，就是除了这方面。很显然，谈到性的话题的时候，他们比她本人还要坐立不安。
So she had turned to pornography. “There’s a lot of problems with porn,” she wrote. “But it is kind of nice to be able to use it to gain some knowledge of sex.”
于是她求助于色情作品。“色情片存在很多问题，”她在信中写道。“不过能够用它来获得一点性知识，也是不错的吧。”
I wish I could say her sentiments were unusual, but I heard them repeatedly during the three years I spent interviewing young women in high school and college for a book on girls and sex. In fact, according to a survey of college students in Britain, 60 percent consult pornography, at least in part, as though it were an instruction manual, even as nearly three-quarters say that they know it is as realistic as pro wrestling. (Its depictions of women, meanwhile, are about as accurate as those of the “The Real Housewives” franchise.)
我倒真希望她这种想法是相当独特的。然而，为了写一本关于女孩与性的书，我花了三年时间采访高中和大学里的女生，其间反复听到这种说法。现实是，根据英国对大学生进行的一项调查，有60%的应答者表示会至少部分地拿色情作品作为指南，尽管近75%的人还说，他们明白色情片的真实度与美式职业摔角不相上下。（与此同时，其中对女性的描绘，准确度则堪比《娇妻》[The Real Housewives]系列。）
The statistics on sexual assault may have forced a national dialogue on consent, but honest conversations between adults and teenagers about what happens after yes — discussions about ethics, respect, decision making, sensuality, reciprocity, relationship building, the ability to assert desires and set limits — remain rare. And while we are more often telling children that both parties must agree unequivocally to a sexual encounter, we still tend to avoid the biggest taboo of all: women’s capacity for and entitlement to sexual pleasure.
可以说，性侵犯方面的统计数据迫使全美进行了有关知情同意方面的大讨论，但有关同意之后发生的事情，成人与青少年之间的恳谈却基本是一片空白。后者涉及伦理、尊重、决策过程、性欲、相互取悦、关系的培养，以及按照自己欲望行事和设定界限的能力。虽然我们在更频繁地告诉孩子，进行性接触之前必须双方明确表示同意，可我们还是会避开最大的禁忌：女性获得性愉悦的能力与权利。
It starts, whether intentionally or not, with parents. When my daughter was a baby, I remember reading somewhere that while labeling infants’ body parts (“here’s your nose,” “here are your toes”), parents often include a boy’s genitals but not a girl’s. Leaving something unnamed, of course, makes it quite literally unspeakable.
无论是否故意，这一切始于父母。我记得，女儿还是小宝宝的时候，我从哪里读过，父母指出婴儿身体器官的时候（“这是你的鼻子”、“这是你的脚趾”），往往会记得男孩的性器官，却会越过女孩的。既然留下了东西没有名字，要谈起来自然就相当地困难。
Nor does that silence change much as girls get older. President Obama is trying — finally — in his 2017 budget to remove all federal funding for abstinence education (research has shown repeatedly that the nearly $2 billion spent on it over the past quarter-century may as well have been set on fire). Yet according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, fewer than half of high schools and only a fifth of middle schools teach all 16 components the agency recommends as essential to sex education. Only 23 states mandate sex ed at all; 13 require it to be medically accurate.
女孩逐渐长大的过程中，这种沉默也没有多少改进。时至今日，才有奥巴马总统试图在2017年的预算中取消对禁欲教育的联邦资助（不断有研究显示，过去四分之一个世纪这方面的花销近20亿美元，却很可能打了水漂）。然而，根据疾病预防与控制中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的数据，不到一半的高中和区区五分之一的初中在性教育里教授了该中心推荐的全部16项核心内容。仅有23个州强制要求进行性教育；13个要求必须在医学方面准确无误。
Even the most comprehensive classes generally stick with a woman’s internal parts: uteruses, fallopian tubes, ovaries. Those classic diagrams of a woman’s reproductive system, the ones shaped like the head of a steer, blur into a gray Y between the legs, as if the vulva and the labia, let alone the clitoris, don’t exist. And whereas males’ puberty is often characterized in terms of erections, ejaculation and the emergence of a near-unstoppable sex drive, females’ is defined by periods. And the possibility of unwanted pregnancy. When do we explain the miraculous nuances of their anatomy? When do we address exploration, self-knowledge?
就连最详实的课程往往也只涉及女性的体内器官：子宫、输卵管和卵巢。女性生殖系统的标准剖面图，画得像牛头似的，到了双腿之间就模糊成灰色的Y型，仿佛外阴和阴唇根本不存在，更别提阴蒂了。男孩的青春期往往以勃起、射精和体内几乎无法抑制的性冲动为标志，到了女孩这里就变成了月经。再加上意外怀孕的可能性。我们何曾向她们解释过其身体不可思议的微妙之处？我们何曾提过自我探索和了解？
No wonder that according to the largest survey on American sexual behavior conducted in decades, published in 2010 in The Journal of Sexual Medicine, researchers at Indiana University found only about a third of girls between 14 and 17 reported masturbating regularly and fewer than half have even tried once. When I asked about the subject, girls would tell me, “I have a boyfriend to do that,” though, in addition to placing their pleasure in someone else’s hands, few had ever climaxed with a partner.
2010年发表在《性医学杂志》(The Journal of Sexual Medicine)上的一项研究因此也就不奇怪了。这是数十年来对美国人性行为进行的规模最大的调查。印第安纳大学(Indiana University)的研究人员发现，14到17岁的女孩当中，仅有三分之一左右表示会经常自慰，就连尝试过哪怕一次的人都不到一半。当我问女孩们这个话题的时候，她们会回答，“这事我男朋友会做。”然而，除了将自身的愉悦交到别人手上，通过伴侣达到高潮的人也屈指可数。
Boys, meanwhile, used masturbating on their own as a reason girls should perform oral sex, which was typically not reciprocated. As one of a group of college sophomores informed me, “Guys will say, ‘A hand job is a man job, a blow job is yo’ job.’ ” The other women nodded their heads in agreement.
与此同时，男孩会以自己手淫为由，要求女孩给他们口交，而且通常不会投桃报李。在一组大二学生中有个女孩告诉我，“男的会说，‘手活儿是男人的活，口活儿是你的活。’”其他女生纷纷点头表示同意。
Frustrated by such stories, I asked a high school senior how she would feel if guys expected girls to, say, fetch a glass of water from the kitchen whenever they were together yet never (or only grudgingly) offered to do so in return? She burst out laughing. “Well, I guess when you put it that way,” she said.
类似的故事让我十分困扰，因此我问一位高中毕业班女生，如果男人认为，两个人在一起的时候，女人应该随时能去厨房给他拿一杯水来，但反过来他是不会这么做的（即使有也很勉强），那么她是什么感觉？她大笑起来。“嗯，如果你要这么说的话，”她说。
The rise of oral sex, as well as its demotion to an act less intimate than intercourse, was among the most significant transformations in American sexual behavior during the 20th century. In the 21st, the biggest change appears to be an increase in anal sex. In 1992, 16 percent of women aged 18 to 24 said they had tried anal sex. Today, according to the Indiana University study, 20 percent of women 18 to 19 have, and by ages 20 to 24 it’s up to 40 percent.
口交的兴起，以及其被降格为相比性交没那么亲密的行为，是20世纪美国人性行为的最重大转变之一。在21世纪，最大的变化似乎是肛交的增多。1992年，18到24岁女性中有16%的人表示曾尝试肛交。据印第安纳大学(Indiana University)的研究，如今18到19岁的女性有20%尝试过，而到了20到24岁则上升到40%。
A 2014 study of 16- to 18-year-old heterosexuals — and can we just pause a moment to consider just how young that is? — published in a British medical journal found that it was mainly boys who pushed for “fifth base,” approaching it less as a form of intimacy with a partner (who they assumed would both need to be and could be coerced into it) than a competition with other boys. They expected girls to endure the act, which young women in the study consistently reported as painful. Both sexes blamed the girls themselves for the discomfort, calling them “naïve or flawed,” unable to “relax.”
2014年发表在某英国医学期刊的一项针对16到18岁异性恋者——我们停下来好好想想，那是多么小的年龄——的研究发现，推动关系向“五垒”发展的主要是男性，他们的目的更多的是和其他男孩竞争，而不是以此为一种伴侣间的亲密形式（他们认为自己有必要且可以强迫伴侣接受这种形式）。他们认为女孩应该忍受这种行为，而研究中的年轻女性不断报称这令她们感到疼痛。男女双方都把这种不适归咎于女孩身上，认为她们“天真或有缺陷”，无法“放松下来”。
According to Debby Herbenick, director of the Center for Sexual Health Promotion at Indiana University and one of the researchers on its sexual behavior survey, when anal sex is included, 70 percent of women report pain in their sexual encounters. Even when it’s not, about a third of young women experience pain, as opposed to about 5 percent of men. What’s more, according to Sara McClelland, a psychologist at the University of Michigan, college women are more likely than men to use their partner’s physical pleasure as the yardstick for their satisfaction, saying things like “If he’s sexually satisfied, then I’m sexually satisfied.” Men are more likely to measure satisfaction by their own orgasm.
据印第安纳大学性健康宣传中心(Center for Sexual Health Promotion)主任黛比·赫本尼克(Debby Herbenick)说，一旦存在肛交，有70%的女性报称她们在性交过程中感到痛楚。赫本尼克参与了该中心进行的性行为调研。即便没有肛交，也有大约三分之一的年轻女性有疼痛感受，相比之下男性只有约5%。此外，据密西根大学(University of Michigan)心理学家莎拉·麦克莱尔兰德(Sara McClelland)说，大学女性会比男性更多地使用伴侣的身体愉悦作为个人性满足的衡量标准，她们会说“如果他得到性满足，我就得到了性满足。”男人则更多地使用自身的性高潮作为满足的标准。
Professor McClelland writes about sexuality as a matter of “intimate justice.” It touches on fundamental issues of gender inequality, economic disparity, violence, bodily integrity, physical and mental health, self-efficacy and power dynamics in our most personal relationships, whether they last two hours or 20 years. She asks us to consider: Who has the right to engage in sexual behavior? Who has the right to enjoy it? Who is the primary beneficiary of the experience? Who feels deserving? How does each partner define “good enough”? Those are thorny questions when looking at female sexuality at any age, but particularly when considering girls’ formative experiences.
麦克莱尔兰德教授撰文论述了性中的“亲密正义”问题。这触及了性别不平等、经济差异、暴力、身体完整性、身体与精神健康、自我效能、权力动态等根本问题，这些问题在绝大多数个人关系中存在着，无论是持续了两个小时还是二十年。她要我们思考这些问题：谁在性行为中拥有主动权？谁有享受性的权利？谁是性体验的首要受益人？谁觉得这是自己应得的？伴侣双方如何定义“足够好”？对任何年龄段的女性的性事，这些都是棘手的问题，然而它们在女孩的成长期体验中尤其重要。
We are learning to support girls as they “lean in” educationally and professionally, yet in this most personal of realms, we allow them to topple. It is almost as if parents believe that if they don’t tell their daughters that sex should feel good, they won’t find out. And perhaps that’s correct: They don’t, not easily anyway. But the outcome is hardly what adults could have hoped.
我们正认识到，要在教育和职业上支持女孩“向前一步”，然而在这个最为个人化的领域，我们任由她们跌落。仿佛父母认为，如果他们不告诉女儿性爱应该是一种美好的感受，她们就不会自行发现。也许的确如此：她们不知道，至少不会轻易知道。但这样做很难产生大人们想要的结果。
What if we went the other way? What if we spoke to kids about sex more instead of less, what if we could normalize it, integrate it into everyday life and shift our thinking in the ways that we (mostly) have about women’s public roles? Because the truth is, the more frankly and fully teachers, parents and doctors talk to young people about sexuality, the more likely kids are both to delay sexual activity and to behave responsibly and ethically when they do engage in it.
我们为什么不试试别的方式？与其跟孩子少谈性，为什么不多谈一些，为什么不把它正常化，结合到日常生活中去，改变我们（大多数人）对女性公共角色的认知？因为现实就是，教师、家长和医生在和年轻人谈性时越坦诚、越充分，孩子们就越有可能推迟性行为，而在从事性行为时也会表现得更负责任、更道德。