If there were an Olympic competition for bravest country in the world, the gold medal might well go to Moldova. Wobbly politicians from Europe and America should come here to get spinal transplants.
如果有“世界上最勇敢国家”的奥运比赛，金牌很可能会被摩尔多瓦夺得。那些不坚定的欧美政治人物，应该到这里来移植一些脊梁骨。
Think of Moldova as “the next Ukraine,” for Russia may be about to take a bite out of this little country, nestled beside Ukraine and Romania and often said to be the poorest country in Europe. Russia already has bullied Moldova mercilessly for trying to join the European Union, imposing sanctions such as a block on Moldova’s crucial wine exports. Russia is even threatening to cut off the natural gas on which Moldovans depend.
你可以把摩尔多瓦理解成是“下一个乌克兰”，因为俄罗斯可能即将占据这个小国的部分领土。摩尔多瓦夹在乌克兰和罗马尼亚之间，常常被称作欧洲最贫困的国家。由于争取加入欧盟，该国已经遭到了俄罗斯的凶残欺凌。俄罗斯不仅对摩尔多瓦关键的葡萄酒出口进行了制裁，甚至还威胁要切断该国依赖的天然气供应。
“We hope that you will not freeze,” one senior Russian official publicly warned Moldovans.
“希望你们不会冻坏，”一位俄罗斯高级官员公开警告摩尔多瓦。
Yet the valiant Moldovan government refuses to buckle. It is determined to join the European Union and forge bonds with the West.
然而，勇敢的摩尔多瓦政府没有屈服。它决意加入欧盟，跟西方形成纽带。
“There is no alternative for us but to pursue European integration,” Prime Minister Iurie Leanca, a former diplomat, told me in perfect English in his office here in the capital, Chisinau. “We are European! No one should contest this.”
“我们没有其他办法，只能追求融入欧洲，”摩尔多瓦总理尤里·莱安克(Iurie Leanca)说。他曾是外交官，在首都基希讷乌的办公室里，他用完美的英语跟我说，“我们是欧洲国家！任何人都不应该质疑这一点。”
Moldova’s love for the West is unrequited. Washington barely notices it. No sitting president has ever visited. Vice President Joe Biden’s trip to Ukraine this week would have been a perfect moment to drop in and show support, but it didn’t happen. After all, Moldova has a population of less than four million and no obvious strategic significance.
摩尔多瓦对西方的爱是一厢情愿的，华盛顿几乎没有注意到它。没有任何一位美国总统在任期内访问过摩尔多瓦。副总统拜登本周前往乌克兰时，大可以在这里暂作停留并表示一下支持，但他没有那样做。毕竟，摩尔多瓦是个人口不足400万的国家，而且也缺乏明显的战略意义。
With a few modest gestures, President Obama could reward Moldova’s grit. Instead, in the face of American obliviousness, President Vladimir Putin of Russia may formally annex part of Moldova, Transnistria, in the coming weeks.
本来只需做出些许姿态，奥巴马总统就可以对摩尔多瓦的勇气予以嘉奖。就在美国完全没有注意到它时，俄罗斯总统普京可能会在未来几周里，正式吞并它的部分领土：德涅斯特河沿岸地区(Transnistria)。
Transnistria is a Russian-speaking enclave within Moldova, armed by Moscow and protected by Russian troops. Transnistria claims to have seceded and established an independent country, and, in a troubling omen, its government (which Moscow controls) appealed this month for Russia to annex it.
德涅斯特河沿岸是摩尔多瓦一片讲俄语的区域，由莫斯科提供军备，受俄罗斯军队的保护。德涅斯特河沿岸声称已经脱离摩尔多瓦，并成立了一个独立国家，其政府（由莫斯科控制）本月呼吁俄罗斯吞并它，显示了一个令人不安的征兆。
So Russia could soon swallow both Transnistria and a chunk of southern Ukraine, including Odessa, to access it.
因此，俄罗斯可能很快就会吞并德涅斯特河沿岸。为了抵达那里，可能还会吞并包括敖德萨在内的乌克兰南部一大片领土。
Transnistria remains a police state, so I slipped across the border as a tourist, and the area feels just as the old Soviet Union did. Indeed, Transnistria should market itself as an open-air museum of Soviet rule, complete with Lenin statues, Russian troops on the roads and an intelligence agency still called the K.G.B. The propaganda department is in overdrive, with countless billboards celebrating patriotism and past Russian triumphs.
德涅斯特河沿岸仍然是一个警察国家，所以我以游客的身份越过边界。在这里感觉就像是到了前苏联。实际上，德涅斯特河沿岸真应该把自己宣传成“苏联政权的露天博物馆”，这里有列宁雕像，道路上能看到俄罗斯军队，情报机构仍称为“克格勃”(KGB)。宣传机构仍然在卖力工作，用无数广告牌来宣扬爱国主义和俄罗斯昔日的胜利。
“You must be proud of your country!” one billboard declared.
“要为祖国感到自豪！”一个广告牌上写着。
Transnistria’s military memorials complete with a tank or armored personnel carrier praise the heroism of local people and denounce those killed “by fascists” in fighting with Moldova’s military in the early 1990s. One giant collection of posters celebrated Russian and local heroes and praised “those great men who contributed to our culture.”
德涅斯特河沿岸的军人纪念碑赞美当地民众的英雄气概，并谴责上世纪90年代初跟摩尔多瓦军队交战中杀害当地人的“法西斯”；军人纪念碑旁有一辆坦克，或是装甲运兵车。这里有大量海报颂扬俄罗斯及本地的英雄，并称赞了“对我们的文化做出贡献的那些伟人”。
Transnistria’s apartment complexes are dilapidated and identical, and, despite large Russian subsidies, the economy is a mess. But a vast modern sports complex is the pride of the region. The atmosphere was such that I expected to run into the crusty old Soviet leader of the 1970s, Leonid Brezhnev.
德涅斯特河沿岸的公寓楼破旧不堪，风格雷同，而且尽管俄罗斯提供了大量补贴，这里的经济却是烂摊子。不过，一座巨大的现代化体育场馆让这里的人感到骄傲。德涅斯特河沿岸的气氛让我觉得，就算在这里遇到20世纪70年代又老又暴躁的苏联领导人列昂尼德·勃列日涅夫(Leonid Brezhnev)也没有违和感。
“For people here, Putin is a hero,” one young woman told me.
“对于这里的人来说，普京是个英雄，”一名年轻女子告诉我。
It’s true that the Moldovan government in the past was sometimes heavy-handed or threatening to Russian speakers, and, just as Moldovans had the right to leave the Soviet Union, people in Transnistria should have the right to secede from Moldova. But that should happen when Russian troops are gone and people have the right to speak freely.
诚然，摩尔多瓦政府过去曾苛待或威胁过讲俄语的人。正如摩尔多瓦有脱离苏联的权利，德涅斯特河沿岸的人也有脱离摩尔多瓦的权利。但那应该发生在俄罗斯军队离开后，民众能自由表达的情况下。
Moldova, which is Romanian-speaking, is rural, relaxed and green, but the economy crashed after the collapse of the Soviet Union and perhaps one million people fled the country to find work. In some Moldovan villages, it is difficult to find young women because so many left for jobs abroad. According to human rights monitors and United Nations officials, these women were tricked, raped and trafficked by organized crime into brothels across western Europe.
摩尔多瓦讲罗马尼亚语，给人以乡村、闲适、绿意融融的感觉，但苏联解体后，该国经济崩溃，可能有一百万人逃到国外谋生。在某些摩尔多瓦村庄，很难看到年轻女性的身影，因为很多年轻女性都出国工作了。人权观察员和联合国官员表示，这些妇女被犯罪团伙诱骗、强奸，然后贩运到西欧各处的妓院。
In recent years, the government has tried to build a pro-Western market economy, and the country is rebounding but still fragile. Many fear that Putin will now direct his “masked warfare” of infiltrators and provocateurs to turn Moldova into the next Ukraine.
近年来，摩尔多瓦政府一直在努力建立亲西方的市场经济，该国国力也有所回升，但依然很脆弱。很多人担心，普京现在会在这里实行渗透和煽动的“蒙面战术”，令摩尔多瓦变成下一个乌克兰。