PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — Earlier this month a United Nations-assisted tribunal in Cambodia handed down long-overdue judgments against Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan for their roles in the catastrophic Khmer Rouge regime of 1975-79. Nuon Chea, the deputy secretary of the communist party, and Khieu Samphan, the president of the Khmer Rouge state, were sentenced to life in prison for crimes against humanity.
柬埔寨金边——本月早些时候，联合国在柬埔寨协助设立的一家法庭，对农谢(Nuon Chea)和乔森潘(Khieu Samphan)做出了迟到已久的判决，基于的是他们在红色高棉(Khmer Rouge)政权1975年至1979年的浩劫中所扮演的角色。农谢当时是共产党中央副书记，乔森潘则是红色高棉政权的国家主席，两人因危害人类罪被判处终身监禁。
For some observers, this seemed like too little too late for too much money. Eight years have passed since the Khmer Rouge tribunal — officially known as the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia (E.C.C.C.) — began operations, it has cost more than $200 million, and these verdicts concern only a fraction of the total charges. Yet the delay was a result of the extensive procedural protections rightly afforded the accused and the complexity of the case: The indictment is the most complicated since the Nuremberg trials. And it was worth the wait, not least because the tribunal has amassed an extraordinary cache of documents and testimonies.
在一些观察人士看来，这个判决似乎太轻、太迟，代价也太高了。自从八年前红色高棉特别法庭开始运行以来，已经花费了逾2亿美元（约合12.3亿元人民币），但是在所有起诉的案件中，这个官方称作柬埔寨法院特别法庭(Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia)的机构，只对其中的一小部分作出了判决。然而判决的拖延是因为在程序上给予了被告应有的广泛保障，也是因为案件的复杂性——案情是纽伦堡审判以来最为复杂的一次。而且等待是值得的，尤其是因为特别法庭已经搜集了大量非同寻常的档案和证词。
But now there is reason to fear that this database, a major contribution to existing scholarship on the Khmer Rouge era, will not be made available to researchers after the E.C.C.C. fulfills its mandate. Given the Cambodian government’s unease about its connections to the Pol Pot regime, these extraordinary archives risk being censored or put under semipermanent lock and key.
这个数据库对红色高棉时代的现有学术研究做出了重大的贡献。但现在有理由担心，特别法庭的使命完成之后，这些资料不会对研究人员开放。鉴于柬埔寨政府对于自己与波尔布特(Pol Pot)政权的联系感到不安，这些异常重要的档案可能会遭到删减，或者被近乎永久地封存。
Between the fall of the Khmer Rouge regime in 1979 and the launch of the E.C.C.C., historians assembled significant evidence detailing the mayhem. After 1995, the Documentation Center of Cambodia, an independent research institute originally established by Yale University, gathered tens of thousands of previously unknown internal documents from the Khmer Rouge regime, as well as thousands of interviews with both victims and Khmer Rouge cadres. (I was once a director of DC-CAM.)
从红色高棉政权1979年倒台，到特别法庭设立，历史学者搜集了翔实的证据呈现当时的灾祸。1995年之后，最初由耶鲁大学(Yale University)建立的独立研究机构柬埔寨文献中心(Documentation Center of Cambodia)，搜罗了数万份红色过去不为人知的红色高棉政权内部文件，此外还有与受害者和红色高棉干部进行的数千次访谈。（我本人曾是柬埔寨文献中心的主任。）
That material was then made available to the E.C.C.C. Scholars from around the world also shared notes and interviews. And then the court itself sent out investigators across Cambodia to try to resolve ambiguities in the existing record. More than 1,000 interviews were collected as a result. Another major contribution were the testimonies of the nearly 3,900 victims who have joined the proceedings as civil parties — a feature of the E.C.C.C. that makes it unique among all international and hybrid criminal courts — plus thousands of complaints submitted by other victims.
随后这些资料被提供给了特别法庭。世界各地的学者也分享了笔记和采访。之后，法庭本身也向柬埔寨各地派出了调查人员，努力查清现有记录中存在混淆的细节，从而搜集了超过1000份访谈。另一个重要的资料来源是将近3900名受害者的证词，他们作为民事当事人参与了案件的审理。红色高棉特别法庭的这种安排，使它在国际刑事法院和国际-国内合作的刑事法院中独树一帜。此外，其他受害者也提交了数千份诉状。
All this evidence was gathered in a sophisticated digital database, which now contains more than one million pages of information, thousands of photographs and hundreds of films and audio recordings. The material is readily searchable, allowing all parties in the case to make connections that had previously eluded researchers and to develop a finer-grained understanding of the Khmer Rouge regime.
所有这些证据都集中到了一个复杂的电子数据库里。数据库中现在包含了超过100万页信息、数千张照片，以及数百段影像和录音。这些资料便于检索，有利于参与案件审理的各方将相关的史实联系起来，克服此前研究人员在这方面遭遇的困难，这样一来就可以对红色高棉政权有更细致的了解。
I worked as an investigator for the prosecution in 2006-12, and our office used all this information to construct an elaborate model of the notoriously secretive Khmer Rouge organization, from center to zone to sector to district to commune. We created more than 1,000 organizational charts depicting the staffing of political, military and governmental units. These gave us an unprecedented insight into the chain of command among all echelons of the organization across the entire country, and they graphically revealed the waves of internal purges that swept through the Khmer Rouge.
从2006年到2012年，我曾担任检方调查人员。我们的办公室使用了所有这些信息，对红色高棉异常隐秘的组织结构建立了一个详尽的模型，从中央到地方，从部门到区域再到公社。我们编制了逾1000份组织结构图，展示政治、军事和政府机关的人员安排。这些成果让我们前所未有地深入了解到了，整个国家的组织结构里，各个层级之间的指令链条，而且也形象地显示出，一轮轮内部清洗席卷整个红色高棉的过程。
Such cross-referencing helped prove charges against Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan, such as some crimes committed after the Khmer Rouge seized the capital, Phnom Penh, on April 17, 1975, and then forcibly emptied it of its two million residents. Drawing on hundreds of accounts from people who passed through checkpoints on major roads out of the city, the trial judges concluded in their recent judgment that killings of officials from the regime that the Khmer Rouge deposed in 1975 were not isolated acts by undisciplined soldiers, but evidence of a systematic pattern resulting from a centralized plan.
这样的交叉对照帮助证实了农谢和乔森潘遭到的指控，比如红色高棉在1975年4月17日占领首都金边，随后强行清空了该城的200万居民时犯下的一些罪行。红色高棉在主要出城道路上设置了盘查点，大批经过那里的民众讲述了自己的所见所闻。根据数以百计的这种叙述，审判法官在最近的裁决中得出结论：红色高棉1975年推翻了前政权后，该政权官员遭到的杀戮并非一些不守纪律的士兵做出的孤立行为，而是根据红色高棉的中央部署，有组织有计划开展的行动。
Many more connections can be drawn from the E.C.C.C. archives, some with a direct bearing on the charges that will be considered in the next phase of the leaders’ trial. That section of the case includes forced marriage, among other charges. Several NGOs had already done pioneering work to gather evidence of sexual crimes during the Khmer Rouge regime. But it is the civil-party applications and victims’ complaints collected by the E.C.C.C. that make clear just how often rape was committed as a result of the Khmer Rouge’s policy of compelling people to marry and forcing them to consummate the unions.
从特别法庭的档案中，可以得出更多的联系，其中一些直接关系到在下阶段的审判中，可以考虑对红色高棉领导人提起哪些罪名的指控。在这部分内容中，包括了强迫婚姻等指控。在搜集红色高棉政权时期的性犯罪证据方面，几家非政府组织已经进行了一些开创性的工作。然而，正是特别法庭搜罗的民事当事人诉状和受害者控诉，清楚显示了红色高棉的强迫结婚和圆房政策导致了多么频繁的强奸犯罪。
And then there are insights not of direct relevance to the leaders’ trial but invaluable to understanding both the Khmer Rouge regime and contemporary Cambodia. For example, a review of the minutes of meetings of the Standing Committee — the Khmer Rouge’s ultimate decision-making body — and telegrams between the military leadership and division commanders has revealed the astonishing scope of China’s military assistance to the Khmer Rouge, in terms of matériel, logistics and personnel. And the E.C.C.C. archives contain extensive information about the operation of the so-called Eastern Zone under the Khmer Rouge regime, from which emerged some senior leaders in the government today.
此外还有一些资料，虽然与这些领导人的审判没有直接联系，但对于理解红色高棉政权和柬埔寨当代状况而言，却具有很高的价值。例如，红色高棉最高决策机构常务委员会的会议记录，以及军方领导层和部门指挥官之间的电报，揭示了中国在军事物资、后勤和人员上，为红色高棉提供了规模惊人的援助。特别法庭档案中还包含大量信息，显示了在红色高棉政权的领导下，人们所说的“东区”(Eastern Zone)是如何运作的。柬埔寨现政府的一些高级领导人就来自东区。
These matters are controversial, however. The ruling party of Prime Minister Hun Sen, which has been in power since the Khmer Rouge were deposed in early 1979, has long been touchy about its exact connections to the Pol Pot regime. Some senior party members have published autobiographies claiming that they joined the Khmer Rouge movement only in 1970 and in response to a call from the former king to rally against the military dictatorship that had just overthrown him — assertions that are contradicted by material in the E.C.C.C. archives. And in 2009 some party leaders — the president of the national assembly, the finance minister and the foreign minister at the time — failed to answer an E.C.C.C. summons to answer questions during the investigation.
但是，这些问题存在争议。自从1979年年初红色高棉垮台以来，柬埔寨就一直是现任首相洪森(Hun Sen)所在的执政党在掌权。对于它和波尔布特政权的确切联系，该党一直很敏感。一些资深党员出版自传，声称自己直至1970年才投身红色高棉运动，而且只是为了响应前国王的号召，团结起来对抗刚刚推翻他的军事独裁者——这和特别法庭档案的内容相矛盾。而且，在2009年，该党的一些领导人——当时的国民议会主席、财政大臣和外交大臣——对特别法庭在调查中进行的传讯不予理睬。