SHANGHAI — I arrived here on Oct. 19th and was greeted with this news: A combination of cold weather, lack of wind, coal-powered heating and farmers burning off post-harvest debris had created a perfect storm of pollution in the northeastern industrial city of Harbin, home to 10 million people. It was so bad that bus drivers were getting lost because the smog-enveloped roads would only permit them to see a few yards ahead. Harbin’s official website reportedly warned that “cars with headlights turned on were moving no faster than pedestrians and honking frequently as drivers struggled to see traffic lights meters away.”
上海——10月19日抵达上海时，我看到了这样一条新闻：由于天气寒冷、无风、使用燃煤供暖，以及农民收获庄稼后焚烧秸秆等诸多因素，有1000万人口的东北工业城市哈尔滨出现了重度空气污染。据报道，由于污染太严重，在雾霾笼罩的道路上，能见度只有几米，连公交车司机也迷了路。据说哈尔滨的官方网站上警告称，“汽车开着大灯，行驶速度跟行人差不多，司机不停按喇叭，难以看清数米外的红绿灯。”
The NASA Earth Observatory declared that some Harbin neighborhoods “experienced concentrations of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) as high as 1,000 micrograms per cubic meter. For comparison, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s air quality standards say PM2.5 should remain below 35 micrograms per cubic meter.” This means that Harbin would need a 97 percent reduction in pollution in order to reach the maximum level our government would recommend. NASA said Harbin hospitals reported “a 30 percent increase in admissions related to respiratory problems, and several Harbin pharmacies were sold out of pollution facemasks.” The American jazz singer Patti Austin canceled a concert in smoggy Beijing because of a “a severe asthma attack in combination with respiratory infection,” according to her website.
美国宇航局地球观测站(NASA Earth Observatory)称，哈尔滨一些居民区的“细颗粒物(PM2.5)浓度高达每立方米1000微克。作为比较，按照美国环保局(U.S. Environmental Protection Agency)的空气质量标准：PM2.5应保持在每立方米35微克以下”。这意味着哈尔滨需要将污染水平降低97%，才能达到美国政府建议水平的上限。美国宇航局称，哈尔滨医院报告“因呼吸问题前来就诊的病人增加了30%，哈尔滨几家药店的防尘口罩被抢购一空”。美国爵士乐歌手佩蒂·奥斯汀(Patti Austin)的网站表示，她因为“哮喘严重发作以及呼吸道感染”，取消了在烟雾弥漫的北京举办演唱会的计划。
It was no wonder that at a gathering of environmental activists in Shanghai I attended, organized by the Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy, or Juccce, the conversation was dominated by moms and dads talking about where in China to live, when to send their kids outdoors and what food and water to trust. While swapping notes on China’s latest “airpocalypse” a few days later, Hal Harvey, the American chief executive of Energy Innovation, who is working with China’s government to try to get its air quality back under control, asked a powerful question: “What if China meets every criteria of economic success except one: You can’t live there.”
难怪我在上海参加一个环保活动人士会议时，为人父母者都热衷于讨论“中国什么地方适合居住、什么时候让孩子到户外活动，哪些食物和水能放心食用”等问题。这个会议由聚思（Joint U.S.-China Collaboration on Clean Energy，也称中美清洁能源合作组织）主办。几天后，谈论中国最近的“空气末日”(airpocalypse)时，正与中国官方合作，努力让空气质量回归可控范围的能源创新(Energy Innovation)的美籍首席执行官哈尔·哈维(Hal Harvey)提出了一个有力的问题：“如果中国达到了经济成功的所有标准，只有一条除外：你不能在这里生活，那会怎样？”
Indeed, what good is it having all those sparkling new buildings if you’re trapped inside them? What good is it if China’s rapid growth has enabled four million people in Beijing to own cars, but the traffic never moves? What good is it if China’s per capita incomes have risen to a level affording tens of millions of once-poor peasants diets rich in milk and meat, but they can’t trust the labels? What good is all that rising G.D.P., if there is no clean air to breathe?
的确，有那些亮闪闪的新建筑有什么用，如果你被困在里面，不能外出？如果中国经济的快速增长让400万北京市民拥有了私家车，但路上堵得水泄不通，那又有什么用？如果中国的人均收入增长让数千万计曾经贫穷的农民能够享用肉类和奶制品丰富的饮食，但他们不能相信食品标签，那又有什么用？如果国内生产总值节节上升，却没有清新的空气可呼吸，那又有什么用？
China has built amazing hardware in 30 years — modern cities, roads, airports, ports and telecoms — bringing more people out of poverty faster than any country in the history of the world. The Chinese have much to be proud of. Every healthy economy, though, depends on a healthy environment. China will stall if President Xi Jinping and his government do not now build the software — the institutionalized laws, courts and norms — that can ensure that all this growth will not be undermined by an epidemic of despoiled land and dirty air. 
这30年来，中国在硬件——现代城市、道路、机场、港口和电信设施——建设上取得了惊人的成就。在世界历史上，没有任何一个国家像中国这样，让更多的人以更快的步伐摆脱了贫困。中国有很多值得骄傲的地方。但是，任何健康的经济都要依靠健康的环境。如果习近平及其领导的政府现在不加强软件——制度化的法律、法院和规范——建设，确保中国的增长不被土地恶化和空气污染破坏，中国就会陷入停滞。
That is easier said than done. China is a one-party system with multiple, competing interests inside. More enlightened party leaders in Beijing may declare, “We have to clean this up,” but they still have to get the local bosses — whose bonuses depend largely on generating economic growth — “to assert environmental interests at least as strongly as economic interests,” said Harvey. That requires assigning real value, and giving real institutional power and weight, to those in the system who believe that it is just as important to protect the commons — air, water, land, food safety — as it is to grow the commons, that it is just as important to have decent ingredients in the pie as it is to grow the pie. “At the end of the day,” said Harvey, “if the pie’s not edible, it doesn’t matter how big it is.”   
这件事说起来容易做起来难。中国是一党制国家，党内还有多方利益的竞争。哈维说，比较开明的领导人可能会在北京宣布，“我们必须清理污染”，但他们仍然得让地方上的一把手——这些人的仕途目前基本上取决于推动经济增长——“至少像重视经济利益那样重视环境利益”。这需要为体制中的某些人提供真正的价值，赋予他们真正的制度性权力和影响力，这些人相信保护公共资源——空气、水、土地、食品安全——就像增加公共资源一样重要，相信让馅饼里有像样的成分和把馅饼做大一样重要。“说到底，如果一个馅饼不能吃，它再大也没有用。”哈维说。
(We can thank our lucky stars that foresighted Americans, starting around 1970, built the institutions to protect our air and water. Next time you hear someone beat up on the E.P.A., send them to Harbin for a week.)
（美国人要多谢自己的幸运星，从1970年左右开始，有远见的美国人组建了一些机构来保护我们的空气和水。下一次你再听到有人对美国环保局说三道四，就把他们送到哈尔滨去待一个星期）。
Peggy Liu, the founder of Juccce, is working with Chinese consumers, producers and bureaucrats to define and implement a more sustainable “Chinese dream” that must be different from the American dream of a house, a car, a yard and a throwaway economy for all. I think building the institutional support for a sustainable Chinese dream is the most important thing President Xi can do.
聚思的创始人刘佩琪(Peggy Liu)正在同中国消费者、生产商和政府部门合作，定义一个更可持续的“中国梦”，它必须不同于一栋房子、一辆汽车、一个院子和一个“丢弃型经济”的美国梦。我认为，习近平可以做的最重要的事情，就是为一个可持续的中国梦构建制度支柱。
“China doesn’t have to have rivers that run bright red with industrial waste, or our lakes and beaches smothered by thick, green algae, or 18,000 dead virused pigs floating down the Huangpu River,” Liu recently wrote. “We shouldn’t have to check our air quality index app on our phone every day to determine whether we should let our children outside to play. There shouldn’t be any more Chinese children who, when they go abroad for the first time, ask: ‘Mommy, why is the sky so blue?’... China can be better than this. China needs to carve our own unique way to a thriving life and stable community — a path that is a sustainable path. If we don’t do this soon, we will end up with a China Nightmare. And there’s no escaping that a China Nightmare is a global nightmare.”
“中国不必有河流因工业废物而变得鲜红，我们的湖泊和海滩不必被厚厚的绿藻覆盖，黄浦江上也不必漂浮着1.8万头病死的猪，”刘佩琪最近写道。“我们不应该每天检查过手机上的空气质量指数应用之后，才能决定是否带孩子出门去玩。不应该有更多的中国孩子在第一次走出国门时发问：‘妈妈，为什么天空这么蓝？’……中国可以变得比这更好。中国需要开辟自己独特的方式，来实现富庶的生活和稳定的社会——一条可持续发展的道路。如果我们不这样做，中国梦就会变得中国噩梦。中国噩梦会是全世界的噩梦，没有人可以置身事外。”