In the debate about poverty, critics argue that government assistance saps initiative and is unaffordable. After exploring the issue, I must concede that the critics have a point. Here are five public welfare programs that are wasteful and turning us into a nation of “takers.”
在有关贫困的辩论中，批评者认为政府援助使人不思进取，且让国家难以负担。在对这一问题深入了解之后，我不得不承认，这些人说得有些道理。以下五项公共福利项目靡费甚巨，正将我们变成一个“索取者”之国。
First, welfare subsidies for private planes. The United States offers three kinds of subsidies to tycoons with private jets: accelerated tax write-offs, avoidance of personal taxes on the benefit by claiming that private aircraft are for security, and use of air traffic control paid for by chumps flying commercial.
首先，针对私人飞机的福利补助。美国向拥有私人飞机的巨富们提供三种补助：加速税款冲消；以购买私人飞机是出于安全考虑为由，规避个人受益税项；使用空管的服务，那是由坐民航的傻瓜支付的。
As the leftists in the George W. Bush administration put it when they triedunsuccessfully to end this last boondoggle: “The family of four taking a budget vacation is subsidizing the C.E.O.’s flying on a corporate jet.”
当乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府中的左翼试图终止这个耗资巨大的项目却没能成功时，他们这样说道：“一家四口进行一次廉价旅行，就是在赞助CEO们乘公务机出行。”
I worry about those tycoons sponging off government. Won’t our pampering damage their character? Won’t they become addicted to the entitlement culture, demanding subsidies even for their yachts? Oh, wait ...
我担心这些巨富们在揩政府的油。难道我们的纵容不会让他们的性格变坏？难道他们就不会对这种福利文化上瘾，甚而为他们的游艇要求补助？哦，等一下……
Second, welfare subsidies for yachts. The mortgage-interest deduction was meant to encourage a home-owning middle class. But it has been extended to provide subsidies for beach homes and even yachts.
第二，针对游艇的福利补助。减免按揭利率是为了鼓励中产阶级居者有其屋。但其范围却已扩展到为购买海滩别墅甚至游艇提供补助。
In the meantime, money was slashed last year from the public housing program for America’s neediest. Hmm. How about if we house the homeless in these publicly supported yachts?
与此同时，针对美国最贫困人口开展的公共住房项目，其资金却在去年遭到大幅削减。那么这样吧，我们让无家可归者住进那些由公共资金赞助的游艇，怎么样？
Third, welfare subsidies for hedge funds and private equity. The single most outrageous tax loophole in America is for “carried interest,” allowing people with the highest earnings to pay paltry taxes. They can magicallyreclassify their earned income as capital gains, because that carries a lower tax rate (a maximum of 23.8 percent this year, compared with a maximum of 39.6 percent for earned income).
第三，针对对冲基金和私募股权公司的福利补助。美国税务体系最令人发指的一个漏洞就是“附带权益”，允许收入最高的人缴纳微不足道的税款。他们能够神奇地将他们的劳动所得收入重新划为资本利得，因为此项税率较低（今年最高为23.8%，而劳动所得税的最高税率则是39.6%）。
Let’s just tax capital gains at earned income rates, as we did under President Ronald Reagan, that notorious scourge of capitalism.
让我们按照劳动所得税的税率来为资本利得征税吧，在罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统这个臭名昭著的资本主义祸害的治下，我们就这么做过。
Fourth, welfare subsidies for America’s biggest banks. The too-big-to-fail banks in the United States borrow money unusually cheaply because of an implicit government promise to rescue them. Bloomberg View calculated last year that this amounts to a taxpayer subsidy of $83 billion to our 10 biggest banks annually.
第四，针对美国最大银行的福利补助。美国那些太大而不能倒闭的银行可以以超低利率借款，因为政府暗中承诺对它们施以援手。《彭博视点》(Bloomberg View)去年统计发现，这相当于纳税人每年向我们最大的10家银行进行830亿美元（约合5154亿元人民币）的补助。
President Obama has proposed a bank tax to curb this subsidy, and this year a top Republican lawmaker, Dave Camp, endorsed the idea as well. Big banks are lobbying like crazy to keep their subsidy.
奥巴马总统提出了一项银行税来对这种补助加以限制，今年资深共和党议员戴维·坎普(Dave Camp)也对这一建议表示支持。而大型银行则疯狂地进行游说来保住它们的补贴。
Fifth, large welfare subsidies for American corporations from cities, counties and states. A bit more than a year ago, Louise Story of The New York Times tallied more than $80 billion a year in subsidies to companies, mostly as incentives to operate locally. (Conflict alert: The New York Times Company is among those that have received millions of dollars from city and state authorities.)
第五，美国市、县、州给予企业的大量福利补助。一年多以前，《纽约时报》的路易丝·斯托里(Louise Story)经过计算发现，美国每年向公司提供逾800亿美元的补助，主要为了鼓励它们在当地开展业务。（利益冲突警示：纽约时报公司[The New York Times Company]也是一家从市级、州级政府拿到数以百万计美元的公司。）
You see where I’m going. We talk about the unsustainability of government benefit programs and the deleterious effects these can have on human behavior, and these are real issues. Well-meaning programs for supporting single moms can create perverse incentives not to marry, or aid meant for a needy child may be misused to buy drugs. Let’s acknowledge that helping people is a complex, uncertain and imperfect struggle.
你明白我的意思了吧。我们所说的是政府福利项目的不可持续性，以及这给人们行为可能带来的破坏性影响，这些是实实在在的问题。为了支持单身母亲而推出用意良好的项目，可能会错误地激励她们保持单身，或者说提供给一名贫穷儿童的补助金，可能会被错误地用来购买毒品。让我们承认，帮助他人相当复杂，充满不确定性和瑕疵，需长期努力。
But, perhaps because we now have the wealthiest Congress in history, the first in which a majority of members are millionaires, we have a one-sided discussion demanding cuts only in public assistance to the poor, while ignoring public assistance to the rich. And a one-sided discussion leads to a one-sided and myopic policy.
但是，可能因为我们如今拥有美国历史上最富有的国会，第一次出现国会多数成员都是百万富翁的情况，我们因此有了一场一边倒的讨论，只要求削减对穷人的公共补助，而罔顾对富人的公共补助。而一边倒的讨论就带来了一边倒的、短视的政策。
We’re cutting one kind of subsidized food — food stamps — at a time when Gallup finds that almost one-fifth of American families struggled in 2013 to afford food. Meanwhile, we ignore more than $12 billion annually in tax subsidies for corporate meals and entertainment.
当盖洛普(Gallup)调查发现，有将近五分之一的美国家庭2013年在饮食支出上遇到困难时，我们正在削减一种食品补助——食品券。与此同时，我们却无视每年为企业用餐和娱乐提供的逾120亿美元的税收补贴。
Sure, food stamps are occasionally misused, but anyone familiar with business knows that the abuse of food subsidies is far greater in the corporate suite. Every time an executive wines and dines a hot date on the corporate dime, the average taxpayer helps foot the bill.
没错，偶尔的确会发生食品券不当使用的情况，但任何熟悉这一问题的人都知道，企业对食品补贴的滥用要严重得多。每当高管拿着公司的钱赶赴热辣的约会，大吃大喝之时，普通纳税人就在帮着买单。