JAKARTA, Indonesia — I grew up in the shadow of the Indonesian massacres exposed in Joshua Oppenheimer’s extraordinary documentary, “The Act of Killing,” which has been nominated for an Academy Award.
印度尼西亚雅加达——约书亚·奥本海默(Joshua Oppenheimer)执导的杰出纪录片《杀戮演绎》(The Act of Killing)荣获了奥斯卡奖(Academy Award)提名。该片记述了印度尼西亚大屠杀，而我就是在那场大屠杀的阴影中长大的。
I was a couple of months old in October 1965, when the Indonesian government gave free rein to a mix of Indonesian soldiers and paramilitaries to kill anyone they considered to be a “communist.” Over the next few months into 1966, at least 500,000 people were killed (the total may be as high as one million). The victims included members of the Communist Party of Indonesia (P.K.I.), ethnic Chinese, as well as trade unionists, teachers, civil society activists and leftist artists.
1965年10月，当印尼政府放任一群军人和准军事人员杀害所有被他们认为是“共产党”的人时，我只有几个月大。在接下来的几个月一直到1966年，至少有50万人被杀（总人数可能高达100万）。遇难者包括印尼共产党(Communist Party of Indonesia)的成员，以及工会主义者、教师、公民社会活动人士和左翼艺术家。
My father, an ethnic Chinese, recognized early on the threat to our family, and we fled our East Java town of Jember to the relative safety of the port of Surabaya. There we took refuge while Jember was the scene of savage killings of our friends and neighbors.
我父亲作为华人很早就意识到了家人面临的危险，于是我们从东爪哇省的任抹县逃到了相对安全的港口城市泗水。我们在泗水避难时，任抹上演了残暴的杀戮，我们的友人和邻居纷纷遇难。
Years later, my father’s trusted employee, Man Tuka, would walk with me around Jember and tell me stories about the many lives lost during the massacres. When I was eight or nine years old, he described to me a scene that has haunted me ever since.
多年后，父亲手下深得他信任的雇员曼·图卡(Man Tuka)陪我一起在任抹漫步，对我讲有关那场让许多人丧命的大屠杀的故事。那时我只有八九岁，但他向我描述的那一幕却让我一生都难以忘怀。
Man Tuka told me about how the Jompo River that runs through Jember turned red with the blood of victims dumped into it by paramilitary murderers. He spoke of seeing a raft float by: On it was a baby crying with hunger as it tried to suckle its murdered mother.
他告诉我，准军事化的杀人凶手将遇难者遗体扔进贯穿任抹的让拨河后，河水被鲜血染成了红色。他说自己看到一艘筏子漂过：筏子上是一个被饿哭了的孩子，孩子正试图吃已遇害母亲的奶。
In the 48 years since these dark months, the Indonesian government has justified the massacres as a necessary defense against the P.K.I. Its narrative holds that the Communists attempted a coup, murdering six army generals on Sept. 30, 1965, as part of their attempt to make Indonesia into a Communist state. Every Sept. 30 since, a state-owned television station has aired a government-sanctioned film luridly depicting the P.K.I.’s “treachery” and the bravery of the Indonesian soldiers and paramilitaries who “exterminated” that peril.
在那黑暗的几个月过后的48年里，印尼政府一直称那是一场正当的行动，是对印尼共产党采取的必要防御。政府的叙述称共产党试图发动政变，并在1965年9月30日杀害了6名军队将领，还说这是他们为把印尼变成共产主义国家而进行的努力的一部分。自那以后的每年9月30日，一家官方电视台都会播放一部得到政府批准的电影，该影片骇人听闻地描绘了印尼共产党的“背叛”，以及“消除了”那一危险的印尼军人和准军事人员的勇敢。
My generation grew up on this propaganda; we had little or no knowledge of what really happened. Only through Man Tuka and some elderly ethnic Chinese residents of my hometown did I start to learn the truth about what occurred during those months of 1965-66.
我这一代人就是在这种宣传中长大的；我们几乎甚或完全不知道真的发生了什么。只有通过曼·图卡和老家一些年长的华裔居民，我才开始了解关于1965年和1966年相交的那几个月的真相。
“The Act of Killing” has now broken the official silence about the massacres. In response to the government’s unwillingness to approve the film for release in Indonesia, Mr. Oppenheimer made it available in Indonesia for free on YouTube. Despite limited Internet access outside of the cities, the film has been a distressing revelation for younger Indonesians. Indeed, it has provoked a public debate about the need for accountability for those crimes.
如今，《杀戮演绎》打破了官方对那场大屠杀的沉默。政府不愿批准在印尼发行这部电影。作为应对，奥本海默将影片放在了YouTube上，这样印尼的观众就能免费看到了。尽管在城市以外的地方，互联网接入很有限，但对年轻的印尼人而言，这部影片披露了令他们沮丧的真相。实际上，影片已经引发了一场公开讨论，主题是是否有必要对那些罪行追责。
The past two years have seen tentative steps in that direction. In July 2012, Indonesia’s human rights commission produced a report documenting the mass killings of 1965-66. The panel interviewed hundreds of witnesses to massacres, torture and rape. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono responded by instructing the attorney general to assess the findings and report back.
在这一点上，过去两年出现了一些尝试性的举措。2012年7月，印尼的人权委员会撰写了一份报告，记录了1965年至1966年之间的那场大屠杀。该委员会采访了数百名屠杀、拷问和强奸行径的目击者。苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)总统的回应是指示司法部长对这份报告的调查结果进行评估，并提交相关报告。
But some government officials are unhappy about moves toward accountability. In October 2012, Djoko Suyanto, the political, legal and security affairs minister, publicly justified the killings, saying, “This country would not be what it is today” had they not occurred.
但一些政府官员对围绕追责采取的措施表示不满。2012年10月，负责政治、法律和安全事务的部长佐科·苏扬托(Djoko Suyanto)公开为那场杀戮辩护，称如果没有发生那些事，“这个国家就不会是现在这样。”
Mr. Oppenheimer’s film and the government’s reaction to it are powerful reminders of the culture of impunity and the lack of rule of law that continue to weigh on Indonesia. Impunity expresses itself in a systematic failure to hold accountable members of the security forces and Islamist militants who commit abuses against religious minorities across the country.
奥本海默的影片，以及政府对影片做出的反应，有力地提醒人们注意到，一种缺乏追责的文化和法治的缺失这两点依然困扰着印尼。安全部队和伊斯兰激进分子在全国迫害宗教少数派，但制度导致这些人未被追究责任。这种缺乏惩罚机制的文化在这一点上也得到了体现。
The Islamic People’s Forum, the Islamic Defenders Front and other Islamic groups are at the forefront of this intolerance. These groups have attacked the places of worship of Shiite and Ahmadiyah Muslims as well as some Christian churches. Although government officials and security forces have played a passive, or even active, role in such violence, Mr. Yudhoyono’s government has failed to confront those responsible or to obtain any redress for the victims.
伊斯兰人民论坛(Islamic People’s Forum)、伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线(Islamic Defenders Front)以及其他一些伊斯兰教组织尤其狭隘。这些组织袭击了什叶派穆斯林和艾哈迈迪亚派穆斯林做礼拜的地方，以及部分基督教教堂。尽管政府官员和安全部队在类似的暴力活动中扮演了被动乃至主动的角色，但尤多约诺领导的政府未直面应对袭击负责的人，也没有为受害者争取到任何赔偿。
The legacy of impunity for the crimes of 1965-66 also extends to a lack of accountability for abuses by security forces operating in Indonesia’s easternmost provinces, Papua and West Papua. Papua is the site of a low-level insurgency by the Free Papua Movement, a small and poorly organized armed group seeking independence. Over the last three years, Human Rights Watch has documented hundreds of cases where the police, soldiers and intelligence officers used unlawful force when dealing with Papuans exercising their right to peaceful assembly. The government’s tight control over the flow of information from Papua complicates efforts by foreign media to expose these abuses.
对1965年至1966年发生的罪行不加惩罚，其历史后果进而发展到部署在印尼最东边的省份巴布亚省和西巴布亚省的安全部队的暴行未被追责。在巴布亚省，巴布亚运动(Free Papua Movement)发动了一场小规模的叛乱。寻求独立的巴布亚运动是一个武装组织，规模较小，组织涣散。过去三年，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)记录了数百起案例。在这些案例中，警察、军人和情报人员在巴布亚人行使和平集会权时非法使用了武力。政府严格控制着巴布亚的信息流，使得外国媒体揭露此类违法行为的努力变得复杂起来。
The government needs to provide accountability for the 1965-66 massacres as a crucial step toward justice for families who lost loved ones, and to work to dismantle the toxic culture of impunity that victimizes Indonesians to this day.
政府需要追究1965到1966年大屠杀的责任，将其作为迈向为丧失亲友的家庭谋求正义的关键一步。政府还需要努力消解加害者逍遥法外的有毒文化，因为这种文化让印尼受害至今。
On Sunday, I will watch the Academy Awards ceremony to see if “The Act of Killing” wins an Oscar — and remember Man Tuka and the victims of Jember.
周日的时候，我会观看奥斯卡颁奖典礼，看《杀戮演绎》能否赢得一尊金像奖，同时纪念曼·图卡，以及任抹的那些遇难者。