THE most striking thing about visiting Silicon Valley these days is how many creative ideas you can hear in just 48 hours.
对于这些日子造访硅谷的人来说，最令人惊奇的事情就是，仅仅48小时，就能听到很多富有创造性的想法。
Jeff Weiner, the chief executive of LinkedIn, explains how his company aims to build an economic graph that will link together the whole global work force with every job being offered in the world, full-time and temporary, for-profit and volunteer, the skills needed for each job, and a presence for every higher education institution everywhere offering a way to acquire those skills.
LinkedIn首席执行官杰夫·韦纳(Jeff Weiner)表示，该公司打算建立一种“经济图”，将全球的整个劳动大军，与世界各地提供的每个工作岗位联系起来，无论是全职还是临时工作，以营利为目的还是志愿工作，并且跟每个工作岗位所需的技能联系起来，跟各个地方培养这些技能的所有高等教育机构联系起来。
Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, explains how his online storage and collaboration technology is enabling anyone on any mobile device to securely upload files, collaborate, and share content from anywhere to anywhere. Laszlo Bock, who oversees all hiring at Google, lays out the innovative ways his company has learned to identify talented people who have never gone to college. Brian Chesky, the co-founder of Airbnb, explains how his start-up has, in the blink of an eye, become one of the biggest providers of overnight rooms in the world — challenging Hilton and Marriott — without owning a single room. Curt Carlson, the chief executive of SRI International, which invented Siri for your iPhone, recalls how one leading innovator just told him that something would never happen and “then I pick up the paper and it just did.”
Box公司首席执行官阿隆·列维(Aaron Levie)解释了该公司的在线存储和协作技术，如何让使用任何一台移动设备的任何人，安全地从任何地方上传文件、进行协作，并且将内容分享到任何地方。拉斯泽罗·鲍克(Laszlo Bock)负责谷歌公司所有的招聘工作，他讲述道，谷歌已经学会了使用一些创新的方法，来找到那些从来没有上过大学的人才。Airbnb的共同创始人布莱恩·切斯基(Brian Chesky)讲述了该公司是如何在完全没有自有房间的情况下，用一眨眼的工夫，成为世界上最大的住宿房间供应商之一的——现在它可以挑战希尔顿(Hilton)和万豪酒店(Marriott)了。柯特·卡尔森(Curt Carlson)是SRI国际公司(SRI International)的首席执行官，iPhone的Siri服务就是该公司发明的。卡尔森回想起，以前有一位知名创新者告诉他，某件事肯定是做不到，“然后我拿起了那篇文章，发现已经实现了。”
What they all have in common is they wake up every day and ask: “What are the biggest trends in the world, and how do I best invent/reinvent my business to thrive from them?” They’re fixated on creating abundance, not redividing scarcity, and they respect no limits on imagination. No idea here is “off the table.”
他们都有一个共同点，就是每天早上醒来都会问：“世界上最大的趋势是什么，我如何最好地打造或者改造我的企业，以便利用这些趋势来发展壮大。”他们痴迷于创造丰富和繁荣，而不是重新瓜分稀缺的东西，他们不接受想象力受到的任何限制。在这里，没有任何想法是不可讨论的。
Then, after you’ve been totally energized by people inventing the future, you go back to your hotel room and catch up with the present: the news from Washington. Two headlines stand out like flashing red lights: House Speaker John Boehner says immigration reform in 2014 is off the table and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says the “fast track” legislation we need to pass vital free-trade agreements with the European Union and some of our biggest trading partners in the Asia-Pacific region is off the table. Forget about both until after the 2014 midterm elections, if not 2016.
然后，当你被未来的开创者们激励得心潮澎湃之后，回到酒店房间里，听到关于华盛顿的消息，就会滑落到当前的现实之中。两则新闻像闪烁的红灯一样亮眼：众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)说，2014年对移民改革不予讨论，参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)则表示，现在对“快速通道”(fast-track)立法不予讨论。但与欧盟以及亚太地区一些最大的贸易伙伴签订的重要自由贸易协定，都需要“快速通道”立法才能通过。这两个问题就算不用等到2016年，也都要等到2014年中期选举之后再说。
Summing this all up, The Associated Press reported on Feb. 9 something that you could not make up: “WASHINGTON (AP) — Little more than a week after Groundhog Day, the evidence is mounting that lawmakers have all but wrapped up their most consequential work of 2014, at least until the results of the fall elections are known.”
美联社2月9日报道的一个状况，你恐怕编都编不出来，它对这一切进行了总结：“华盛顿（美联社）——土拨鼠日(Groundhog Day)后才一个多星期，就有越来越多的证据表明，议员们几乎已经把他们2014年度最重大的工作都搁置起来，至少要等到秋季选举的结果出来之后才会采取行动。”
What a contrast. Silicon Valley: where ideas come to launch. Washington, D.C., where ideas go to die. Silicon Valley: where there are no limits on your imagination and failure in the service of experimentation is a virtue. Washington: where the “imagination” to try something new is now a treatable mental illness covered by Obamacare and failure in the service of experimentation is a crime. Silicon Valley: smart as we can be. Washington: dumb as we wanna be.
对比真是鲜明。硅谷：实现设想的地方。华盛顿特区：扼杀想法的地方。硅谷：对你的想象力不设限，为做实验而遭遇失败值得赞赏。华盛顿：尝试新东西的“想象力”现在成了一种可以治疗的精神疾病，奥巴马医改(Obamacare)可以覆盖，而为了做实验遭遇的失败是一种罪行。硅谷：充分发挥我们的聪明才智。华盛顿：我们想有多蠢就能多蠢。
True, some libertarians in Silicon Valley cheer Washington’s paralysis. But it is not so simple. There is a certain “league minimum” that we need and are entitled to expect from Washington, especially today. America just discovered huge deposits of energy and gold at the same time. That is, thanks to advances in drilling technology we have unlocked vast new sources of natural gas, which — if extracted with environmentally sound practices — will give us decades of cheap, cleaner energy and enable America to restore itself as a center of manufacturing.
诚然，硅谷的一些自由意志论者会对华盛顿的瘫痪喝彩。但事情不是那么简单。我们需要华盛顿表现出最起码的能力，而且我们有权抱有这种期待，在今天尤其如此。美国刚刚才同时发现巨大的能源和黄金矿藏。具体来说，由于钻探技术的进步，我们即将获得巨大的新天然气来源，如果采用一种对环境无害的提取方法，在未来数十年中，它可以为我们提供更清洁的廉价能源，让美国重新成为一个制造业大国。
At the same time, the dominance of American companies in cloud computing, and the “Internet of Things” — billions of devices with sensors — have given us a huge lead in the era of Big Data, where the winners will be those who are best at amassing, analyzing and protecting that data and use software to quickly apply what they learn from the data to improve any product or service. These data mountains and the tools to exploit them are the new gold. And we’ve got it.
与此同时，美国企业在云计算和“物联网”——数以亿计的带有传感器的装置——领域的强势表现让我们在大数据时代遥遥领先。在这一时代，赢家将是最擅长搜集、分析及保护数据，并运用软件来迅速挖掘这些数据中的信息，以改进产品或服务的那些人。海量的数据与挖掘它们的工具是新型金矿。这些，我们已经拥有。
In such an era, one of the two most valuable things Washington can do to create more good jobs and wealth is to open more export markets. The other is to have an immigration policy that not only provides a legal pathway to citizenship for those here illegally but enables America to attract the best brainpower and apply that talent to the data mountains and software opportunities we’re creating.
在这样的时代，为了创造更多的优质就业岗位和财富，华盛顿可以做两件最有价值的事情：一是打开更多的出口市场；二是建立适宜的移民政策。该政策不仅要为非法入境的移民提供合法的入籍途径，还应让美国能够吸引一流的智力人才，并将他们的聪明才智运用到我们正在创造的海量数据和软件机遇上。
But Washington these days won’t even do the league minimum. As The Economist observed in an essay entitled “When Harry Mugged Barry,” both the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal with big Asian markets like Japan, which is almost done, and the U.S.-European Union trade deal, which is being negotiated, are “next generation” agreements that even the playing field for us by requiring higher environmental and labor standards from our trading partners and more access for our software and services.
然而，如今的华盛顿连这最起码的能力都没有。正如《经济学人》(The Economist)在题为《哈里打劫贝里》(When Harry Mugged Barry)的文章中写到的那样，即将与日本等多个亚洲大市场敲定的跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)贸易协定，以及正处于谈判阶段的美国-欧盟贸易协议，均是可以为我们创造公平竞争环境的“下一代”协议，这些协议要求我们的贸易伙伴执行更高的环境与劳工标准，并为我们的软件与服务开拓更广阔的市场。
“Studies suggest that proposed deals with Asia and Europe could generate global gains of $600 billion a year, with $200 billion of that going to America,” The Economist added. “And that understates the benefits, since the deals would spur competition in the market for services, which make up most of rich countries’ output but are seldom traded across borders. Opening industries like finance and transport to greater competition could bring great savings to consumers.”
“研究显示，提议中的美国与亚洲和欧洲之间的两个协议可能让全球每年获益6000亿美元（约合3.6万亿元人民币），其中2000亿美元将落入美国囊中，”《经济学人》称。“这还是保守的估算，因为上述协议将刺激在服务市场上的竞争。服务业虽然占到发达国家经济产出的大头，却鲜见其跨越国境。将金融与交通等行业暴露于更大的竞争中，或许会给消费者带来显著的成本节约。”
The U.S. trade representative, Michael Froman, told me that if we’re able to conclude these two trade deals, America would have free trade with “two-thirds of the world.” If you combine that with our lead in cloud computing, social media, software and natural gas for low-cost manufacturing — plus our rule of law and entrepreneurial cultural — you understand, says Froman, why one European C.E.O. told him that America will be the “production platform of choice” for manufacturers all over the world to set up their operations and export to the world.
美国贸易代表迈克尔·费罗曼(Michael Froman)告诉我，倘若我们能完成这两项贸易协议，美国将与“世界上三分之二的地方”开展自由贸易。他还表示，如果再算上我们在云计算、社交媒体、软件，以及低成本制造业所需的天然气——外加法治与企业文化——等领域的优势，就会明白为何欧洲的一名首席执行官告诉他，美国将成为世界范围内的制造商安营扎寨并面向全球出口的“首选生产平台”。
But it will all have to wait at least until after 2014 when we might have a week to legislate before we get ready for 2016. God forbid either party should challenge their respective bases who oppose freer trade or immigration. That would actually require leadership.
但是，这一切都得等到至少2014年以后。届时，在向2016年大选进军之前，我们大概可以有一周时间来搞搞立法。但估计不会有任何一党胆敢挑战各自对自由贸易或移民持反对立场的基础选民。那得拿出点真正的领导力才行呢！
We cannot and should not abolish politics, but sometimes we can’t afford politics as usual. And this time, with rising inequality, is one of them. We need to be doing everything we know how to do to create good jobs and growth. “When your mind-set isn’t about creating abundance,” says Carlson of SRI, “you go into extractive mode, which is a death spiral.”
我们不能且不应废除政治，但有时我们也不能再像惯常那样经受政治的折腾。贫富不均日益拉大的当下，就属于这样的时刻。我们必须竭尽所能来创造体面的就业岗位和增长。“当心思没有放在创造财富上，就会陷入榨取模式，而这是一条必死无疑的下行通道，”SRI的卡尔森说。
Start-up America is our best hope. Sure, we’re doing better than most everyone else, but just being the “cleanest dirty shirt” has never been the American dream.
创业型的美国是我们最大的希望。当然了，我们现在比几乎所有的国家都做得更好，但是，甘当“最干净的脏衬衫”从来都不是什么美国梦。