At first, I thought the faded pink pillow on the crumbling stone floor of the watchtower was a remnant of a previous camping trip.
一开始，我以为烽火台破碎的石地板上褪色的粉红枕头是上一个露营队留下来的。
“Are we coming back here to sleep?” I asked our guide, Joe Zhang, at the beginning of a two-day hike last July along the Great Wall of China, which I was making with my husband, Robb Kendrick, a photographer, and two teenage sons.
“我们要返回这里过夜吗？”我问导游乔·张(Joe Zhang)。去年7月，我和丈夫、摄影师罗伯·肯德里克(Robb Kendrick)以及两个十多岁的儿子开始了为期两天的长城徒步旅行。
Joe shook his head and guessed that the pillow belonged to a local farmer passing through. When I asked where we were going to camp, he pointed out the window to the snaking wall that sliced through lush Panlong (Coiling Dragon) Mountain, part of the Yanshan Range, which stretches across northern Hebei province.
乔摇了摇头，猜测那个枕头可能是经过这里的当地农民丢下的。当我问他我们要在哪里露营时，他指向窗外逶迤的长城。这段长城穿过郁郁葱葱的蟠龙山。蟠龙山是横亘在河北北部的燕山山脉的一部分。
“If we camp tonight, we'll set up tents inside a watchtower that way,” he said. “If we camp.”
“如果我们今晚露营的话，我们将在那边的一个烽火台里搭起帐篷，”他说，“如果我们露营的话。”
That “if,” which he felt compelled to repeat, bothered me. My family had signed up with the tour operator Great Wall Adventure Club to hike this remote part of the Great Wall because I loved the idea of actually sleeping on the wall. I envisioned drifting off to the same sounds and scents that a Mongol-fighting soldier would have experienced centuries ago. I imagined watching the sun burst over peaks crowned by ancient crenelated watchtowers in the morning.
他觉得有必要重复那个“如果”，这让我很担忧。我们一家和旅行服务公司长城探险俱乐部(Great Wall Adventure Club)签了约，在这段偏远的长城徒步旅行，因为我特别想真的在长城上睡一觉。我向往能感受着几个世纪前抗击蒙古的士兵听到的声音、闻到的气味，渐渐睡去；我想象着早上太阳从点缀着古代烽火台的山巅喷薄而出的景象。
Plenty of tour operators take visitors on half-day tours from Beijing to the Badaling or Mutianyu sections of the Great Wall, which are 64.4 to 80.5 kilometers north of the capital; with travel time from Beijing, that leaves about two hours on the wall. But I wanted to escape the crowds and get a wilder, deeper experience. On its website, the Dallas-based Great Wall Adventure Club guaranteed we'd camp on the wall, but in subsequent communications, I learned the guarantee held as long as the weather was good. As we prepared for our outing, I tried not to think of the forecast I'd heard for our first day: chance of thunderstorms, 80 percent.
很多旅行社给游客安排半天的行程，到离北京市区64.4公里至80.5公里的八达岭长城或慕田峪长城参观。除去来回路上的时间，留给游客爬长城的时间只有两个小时。但是我想远离人群，进行一次更原始、更深入的体验。位于达拉斯的长城探险俱乐部在它的网站上保证我们能在长城上野营，但是在随后的交谈中，我得知这个保证的前提是天气情况良好。在我们准备出发时，我努力不去想我听到的第一天的天气预报：出现雷雨的概率为80%。
At 8 that morning, Joe — a lively young man who'd studied Great Wall history in college and on his own — and a driver picked us up in a van at our rented Beijing apartment. After getting through snarls of city traffic, we made our way about 144.8 kilometers northeast, much of it on a new highway that wove through increasingly mountainous terrain, arriving in the village of Gubeikou about 10 a.m. When the driver dropped us off at a ticket booth where Joe bought our entrance permits, we took only what we needed that day — water, sunscreen, cameras — and Joe carried our lunch. Our overnight bags stayed in the van with the driver, who would meet us at the end of our day's 9.7-kilometer hike in the town of Jinshanling.
乔是个活泼的年轻人，在大学里和业余时间研究长城历史。早上8点，乔和一个司机用一辆小货车把我们从租住的北京公寓里接走。穿过繁忙的城市车流之后，我们向东北方向行驶了约144.8公里，大部分时间走在一条新修的高速路上，两边的地势越来越接近山区，大约在上午10点我们到了古北口村。司机在一个售票点把我们放下，乔给我们买了票，我们只带了当天需要的东西——水、防晒霜和相机——乔带着我们的午餐。我们过夜用的大包留在货车里，司机将在金山岭镇与我们碰头，那里是我们这一天9.7公里徒步旅行的终点。
The Great Wall — 8,851 kilometers by some counts, longer by others — is not one wall but many that were built starting in ancient times and were consolidated and reinforced during the Ming dynasty (1368-1644). The purpose: keeping northern raiders from swooping down into the heart of China. The stretch of wall between Gubeikou and Jinshanling, which we hiked on the first day, is considered a prime example of Ming dynasty construction, built from 1568 through 1583 on top of a 1,000-year-old relic of a wall from the Northern Qi dynasty (550-577). Because the Gubeikou area was a strategic passage to Beijing, the more than 40 watchtowers we passed are closely spaced, and the wall was especially strong and well reinforced, constructed of brick up its 7-meter height.
有人计算说长城全长8851公里，也有人算出的数字比这个大。长城不是一道墙，而是很多墙，从古代就开始兴建，在明朝(1368-1644)进行了加固。目的是防止北方侵略者突然袭击中国的心脏地区。我们第一天徒步行走的是古北口至金山岭的这段长城，它被认为是明长城的典型代表，建于1568年至1583年，是在一段有1000年历史的北齐(550-577)长城上建起来的。因为古北口是通往北京的战略要塞，所以我们经过的40多个烽火台排列密集，城墙十分坚固，建筑用的砖石高达7米。
Early in the hike, Joe pointed out a “character brick,” where the stamp of the maker is still visible after almost half a millennium.
在徒步旅行开始后不久，乔指给我们看一块“文字砖”，在差不多500年之后，制作者的印章仍然可见。
“You couldn't see that at Badaling,” Joe said, referring to the most visited and photographed part of the wall closer to Beijing.
“你在八达岭看不到这个，”乔说。他指的是离北京更近的一段游客最多、也被拍摄最多的长城。
The throngs of tourists are so thick, he said, that you feel like a “dumpling in a pot.” He also said that Badaling was heavily restored and not always authentically, with part of renovations dating back to the 1950s. The wall there is so modernized that much of it has metal handrails.
他说，那里的游客太密集了，让你感觉自己像“锅里的饺子”。他还说八达岭经过了大规模修复，而且不总是照原样修复，有些地方大概是在20世纪50年代修复的。那里的城墙太现代了，有很多地方有金属栏杆。
The wall around Gubeikou has been untouched (except for spot repairs on unsafe areas), and part of the thrill is to see this man-made section surviving the war that nature has been waging against it for hundreds of years. Weeds have taken over much of what was once a 4-meter-wide surface, with only a narrow path in places formed by hikers before us. While many watchtowers were merely ghostly shells with window holes, some were surprisingly intact.
古北口附近的长城基本保持原貌（只修复了某些不安全的地段），让人激动的一点是你能看到经过几百年风吹日晒依然挺立的人造长城。4米宽的路大部分被野草占据了，只有之前的徒步旅行者踩出来的一条小道。很多烽火台变成了只有窗户洞的空壳，有些却出人意料地保存完好。
In a watchtower, over a simple picnic lunch of bread, bananas, sausage and a Chinese version of Lay's potato chips, Joe told us we were coming to a forbidden section: a part of the wall we couldn't walk on because it was still used today as the northern boundary of an army compound.
我们在烽火台上吃简单的午餐——面包、香蕉、香肠和中国版的乐事薯片，乔说我们即将到达一个禁区：有一段长城不能在上面走，因为它如今仍是一个军事区的北部边界。
We hiked the next 90 minutes in the brush below the wall to avoid it — passing by farmers' cornfields, pear trees and irrigation canals, by old cottages surrounded by bluebells and tiger lilies. Then we spent the rest of the day back on top, not getting down again until we came to Jinshanling, which means Gold Mountain Ridge, having seen only two other groups of hikers the entire day.
接下来的90分钟，我们在长城下面的灌木丛里行走，经过农民的玉米地、梨园和灌溉渠，经过被蓝铃草和虎皮百合围绕的旧农舍。之后我们返回到长城上走，没再下来，一直到了金山岭，一整天只碰见过另外两队徒步游客。
If the weather had been good, our driver would have taken us back to the area around Gubeikou to camp and then returned us to the same spot in the morning to continue on. But I noticed clouds moving in while we walked down into Jinshanling, a farming area that has fully embraced Great Wall tourism.
如果天气好的话，司机会带我们返回古北口附近露营，第二天早上再把我们带回这个地方继续向前走。但是我注意到在我们向下走进金山岭时，乌云密布。金山岭是个农业区，现在欣然抓住长城旅游业的良机。
Finally the word came down: No.
最后我们得到了答案：不能露营。
“You don't want to be in a watchtower during a thunderstorm,” Joe said.
“你可不想在雷雨天待在烽火台上，”乔说。
I maintained that we would be sheltered from the rain and I didn't mind getting wet in any case, but Joe was firm. I felt the company might be copping out. Maybe some attempt at permission had been unsuccessful or setting up tents would have been too much of a headache.
我坚持说我们能避雨，而且即使淋雨我也不介意，但是乔的态度很坚定。我感觉那个旅行社在回避麻烦。也许是他们的申请没有得到批准，也许是他们嫌搭帐篷太麻烦。
I sulked while we drove to the nearby town of Ba Ke Shi Ying to spend the night at a farmer's house. This was a smart farmer who had built a strip of rooms on his property (and called it Kang Da Homestay) to take advantage of the newly prosperous Beijingers flocking there on weekends as a refuge from the city.
我们开车前往附近巴克石营镇的一个农民家里过夜，一路上我闷闷不乐。那个农民十分精明，在自家院子（名叫康达民居）里建了一排房间。近些年富起来的北京人为了躲避城市的喧嚣，周末成群结队来到这里，这个农民抓住了这个机会。
Joe estimated that a farmer could earn 100,000 renminbi ($16,700 at 6 renminbi to the dollar) a year renting rooms, on top of the 10,000 renminbi he might make farming.
乔估计，一个农民每年除了靠种地挣的1万元人民币之外，还能通过出租房间赚10万人民币（以6元人民币兑换1美元计算，约合1.67万美元）。
By the morning, the rain was gone, replaced by humidity and fog. After a short drive to Jinshanling, we walked back up to the wall. The wall became more deteriorated as we approached what's known as Second Valley — our adventure's ending point.
早上雨停了，空气潮湿，雾气很重。我们驱车很快来到金山岭，回到长城上行走。快到旅行终点第二谷的那段长城更加破败。
Back on the wall that morning, we marveled at the eerie splendor the fog brought to the ruins. Clouds swallowed the wall at the top of ridges. At one watchtower, Joe told us a legend of Hei Gu (Black Girl), who came with her father, a Ming dynasty general, to take care of him as he worked.
那天早上返回到长城上，我们为雾霭给这个历史遗迹带来的奇异景观而惊叹。乌云吞噬了山脊上的长城。在一个烽火台上，乔给我们讲了黑姑的传说。黑姑的父亲是明朝的将军，他来这里驻守的时候，黑姑为了照顾他陪他一起前来。
“One day this tower was hit by lightning, and she died in the fire trying to save it.”
“有一天这个烽火台被雷电击中了，她为了救火而被烧死了。”
I half-suspected Joe's story was a justification of the decision not to camp until I noticed a plaque that confirmed the legend's details. I then saw another sign that warned people to get off the wall during thunderstorms. The wall, it said, was the highest point on the ridges and, as such, was especially vulnerable to lightning strikes.
我对乔的故事将信将疑，觉得他是为了证明不露营的决定是正确的，直到我看到了一个碑，上面的文字证实了这个传说的细节。后来我看到了另一个警示牌，警告人们在雷雨天要离开长城。据说，长城是山脊上的最高点，因此特别容易遭到雷击。
Not camping on the wall, I thought — that was the best idea of the whole trip.
我觉得，不在长城上露营是整个旅行最正确的决定。