Past the coffee-shop uncles having a good smoke with their afternoon beers, past the giant table of pungent durians, past the provision shop shelves crammed with sponges, incense and other household necessities, my friend Jeanette and I strolled, keeping our eyes peeled for signs of fashion.
在咖啡店那些抽着好烟喝着下午啤酒的大叔身边走过，路过那一大桌气味刺鼻的榴莲，再穿过日杂店中那些塞满海绵、熏香和其他家居必需品的货架，我和我的朋友珍妮特正在闲逛，睁圆了眼睛寻找着一切时尚的迹象。
Just when we were about to give up, there it was: in the shop window behind an old-school metal gate painted a frothy sea-foam hue were mannequins filling out gauzy maxi dresses, and a simple wooden sign: “Dust Bunny.”
就在我们即将放弃的时候，它就出现了：在一道涂满海水泡沫图案的老式铁门后面，一家商铺橱窗里陈列着穿着薄纱长衫的假人模特，还有一个简单的木牌写着：“Dust Bunny（灰尘小兔）。”
The store was locked, but I texted the number pasted on the door, and a few minutes later, the owner, Pia Chew, turned up, apologizing for taking a break in her nearby home. She unlocked the shop (Block 112 Bukit Purmei Road, No. 01-203), and we stepped into a head-spinning swirl of 1950s party frocks, vintage film posters and carefully preserved leather pumps.
店门锁着，但我向门上贴着的电话号码发了一条短信，几分钟之后，店主人皮娅·赵（Pia Chew，音译）就出现了，她抱歉地说她在附近的家里歇了一会儿。她打开店门（地址：Block 112 Bukit Purmei Road, No. 01-203），于是我们走进了一个令人目眩的20世纪50年代漩渦中，里面满是派对服装、陈年电影海报以及被悉心修护的皮革高跟鞋。
Where to begin? There was the hefty collection of patterned Japanese day dresses from the 1960s that were fitted on top, then subtly fluffed out into a fetching flare from the waist. Or the vintage jewelry and evening bags, including a shiny metal clutch the size of a large cigarette case that contained slots to hold your cosmetics.
应该从哪里开始呢？有一大批来自20世纪60年代日本的带图案日常便装，上身采用合身剪裁，腰身处稍稍张开，形成迷人的下摆。又有那些年代久远的珠宝和晚宴包，其中包括一个闪亮的金属手抓包，像大号烟盒那般大小，中间有放化妆品的隔缝。
There was also the most unusual piece in the store, a kitschy apple-red satchel with a phone receiver for a handle and push buttons. When we saw it and laughed, Ms. Chew told us that the bag, 800 Singapore dollars (about $661 at 1.20 Singapore dollars to $1 U.S.), was no joke, then proceeded to open it, unwind a long cord, and offer to connect it to a wall socket to make a phone call. She didn’t need to.
这家店中最不寻常的一件物品是一个看似俗气的苹果红小背包，把手是一个电话听筒，上面还有一些按键。当我们看着它笑时，赵女士告诉我们，这个800新加坡元（以1.20新币兑1美元汇率，约合661美元）的包可不是开玩笑的。然后她将它打开，拉出一条长电线，并且说可以将它接到墙上的插座上打个电话试试。她不需要真的打个电话来证明。
Vintage shopping once was more rare in Singapore, a city that has long prized modernity and owning (or building) the next new thing. Secondhand clothing has tended to be seen as something that one would only buy out of necessity, further stigmatized because people here can shy away from wearing the garments of someone who may have passed away.
古着二手店在新加坡曾经是比较稀奇的事物，这是一个长久以来因现代风和拥有（或正在建造）下一项革新事物而著称的城市。二手衣服一直被倾向于当做迫不得已才买的东西。况且这里的人会对逝者的衣服惟恐躲避不及，因此就让二手衣物更加被引以为耻。
But in recent years, the shopping culture here has shifted as women have warmed up to western attitudes regarding wearing used clothing. And my friend Jeanette, one of the most fashion-forward people I have known since we were high schoolers in Singapore, had been telling me of these shops for years. On a recent visit, she took me on a little vintage expedition.
不过在近些年，女士们开始热衷于西方人穿二手衣服的风尚，这里的购物文化也有了改变。我的朋友珍妮特，从我们在新加坡做高中同学时起就是我所认识的最时尚前卫的人之一，她多年来一直在跟我说这些店。在最近的一次拜访中，她带我来了一趟小型的古着珍品之旅。
“People are looking for alternatives to current fashion trends right now — they want something that looks different, ” said Ms. Chew, who noted that when she started her business in 2004 as a way to offload the increasingly unwieldy collection of old designer handbags she had amassed, “there was not much awareness of vintage and very little interest.”
“现在人们都在寻找当下时尚潮流以外的选择——他们想要一些看起来不一样的东西，”赵女士说，2004年她开这家店时，是为了处理自己堆积如山的旧设计师手提包，“当时没有多少人有古着的意识，也很少人有兴趣。”
That has certainly changed. In the Peninsula Shopping Center, a fusty mall filled with stores selling soccer jerseys and electronics, Jeanette and I found a little gem on the third floor: Granny’s Day Out (3 Coleman Street, No. 03-25). From the beaded curtain hanging in the window to the colorful assortment of belts dangling from a suspended wire bustier in the middle of the store, we could tell that this would be a shopping experience to remember. The store’s hundreds of dresses, shoes, sunglasses, purses and jewelry come mostly from the United States and Europe, with some pieces dating back to the Victorian era. More-unusual pieces included a 1920s translucent red flapper dress featuring a delicate veiny pattern and a khaki Thierry Mugler pencil-skirt suit from the 1980s with metal chains draped all over it.
这肯定已经改变了。半岛购物中心(Peninsula Shopping Center)是个满是足球服和电子产品商铺的旧式购物广场，我和珍妮特在这里的三层找到了一个小小瑰宝：“奶奶的逛街日”（Granny’s Day Out，地址：3 Coleman Street, No. 03-25）。窗户上挂着珠帘，店中间挂着一件钢托内衣，上面系着各种色彩的皮带，我们于是明白这将是一次难忘的购物体验。这家店里数以百计的衣服、鞋子、太阳镜、女装提包和珠宝，大多数都是来自于欧美，有些物件可以一直追溯到维多利亚时代。还有些更加不寻常的珍品，包括20世纪20年代一件飘逸的红色半透视女装，带有精细的纹理图案；还有一件卡其色的蒂埃里·穆勒(Thierry Mugler)A字裙套装，来自20世纪80年代，整件衣服上面布满了金属链饰。
When we started trying pieces on, the owner, Hsiao Ying Loh, a former editor at a fashion magazine, jumped in to offer suggestions for belts and necklaces. I found a beautifully cut 1950s white cotton swing dress from Britain that fit me perfectly, and Ms. Loh beamed like a proud mother, whipping out a camera and insisting on taking a photo. She’s got a wall of Polaroids of happy customers — as well as a Facebook page and Web site (grannysdayout.com) on which she posts meticulously styled clothing shots that one might find in a fashion magazine.
当我们开始试穿的时候，以前曾是时尚杂志编辑的店主人罗晓英（Hsiao Ying Loh，音译）过来插话，提供了一些皮带和项链方面的建议。我找到了一条剪裁得很漂亮的20世纪50年代英国白色棉摆裙，完美地契合了我的身材，而罗女士也露出了骄傲的母亲般的微笑，她抽出一台相机，坚持要拍张照片。她有一堵墙上满是宝丽来照片，上面满是快乐的顾客——此外她还有Facebook主页和网站(grannysdayout.com)，她会在上面贴出悉心打造的时装照，就像是在时尚杂志上看到的那种。
Her infectious effervescence stems in part from the thrill of seeing women come around to vintage.
她极具感染力的热情一部分是来自于目睹女人们对古着潮流的激情。
“Asians are generally superstitious, and many Singaporeans were initially hesitant: the idea of wearing a ‘dead woman’s’ clothes — horrors!” Ms. Loh said. “I remember my very first customer. When she found out our shop sold old dresses and that she had one on in the fitting room, she couldn’t take it off fast enough. Thankfully those days are over, although I still get the occasional raised eyebrow.”
“亚洲人通常都是迷信的，而很多新加坡人一开始也很犹豫：想到要穿一件‘死人’的衣服——吓人！”罗女士说，“我记得我的第一个顾客。当她发现我们店是卖旧衣服，并且她已在试衣间里穿上了其中一件时，她迫不及待地要脱下来。庆幸的是，那样的时代已经结束了，尽管我还是偶尔会遇到一些奇怪的眼光。”
Some shops are worth checking out because of the vintage nature of their settings as much as their stock. Dust Bunny, for example, is in the heart of an early 1980s residential neighborhood still infused with the languidness of its time of birth. And Flea & Trees (68 Seng Poh Lane, No. 01-10) is worth a visit not just for its vintage brooches from Paris, dresses from Tokyo or 50-year-old luggage pieces from London but also for its neighborhood, Tiong Bahru, one of the oldest residential areas of Singapore and one filled with beautiful 1940s Art Deco buildings.
有些商店值得一看，是因为它们的环境设置和它们的存货一样有着陈年古旧的气息。比如“灰尘小兔”，就坐落在一个20世纪80年代初期的住宅区中心位置，依然渗透着这个区域始建初期时的那种闲寂。而“跳蚤与树” （Flea & Trees”，地址：68 Seng Poh Lane, No. 01-10）也值得一游，不仅是因为它有来自巴黎的胸针、来自东京的女装或是来自伦敦有50年历史的行李箱珍品，也因为它所在的区域中峇鲁(Tiong Bahru)是新加坡最古老的居民区之一，里面布满漂亮的20世纪40年代装饰艺术(Art Deco)建筑。
Still, several of these stores offer modern trappings, selling online and using SMS texting to reach customers. In fact, at Déjà Vu Vintage (9 Raffles Boulevard, Millenia Walk, No. 01-70), which has a noteworthy collection of designer vintage pieces from Ossie Clark, Pucci, Commes des Garcons and more, the owner, Kelly Yeo, will cheerily call out to you through the fitting-room curtain saying, “Don’t worry about the fit — come, we’ll alter it for you.” When my dresses were done more than a week later, the store texted my phone saying, “Hi babe, your alterations are ready.”
不过，这些店中还是有几家能提供现代服务的，它们可在网上销售，并通过短信来联系顾客。事实上，在拥有来自奥茜·克拉克(Ossie Clark)、Pucci、川久保玲(Commes des Garcons)等设计师系列古着的“似曾相识古着店” （Déjà Vu Vintage，地址：9 Raffles Boulevard, Millenia Walk, No. 01-70），店主凯莉·杨（Kelly Yeo，音译）会在试衣室外隔着帘布向你热情地喊道：“别担心不合身——出来吧，我们可以给您改。”当我的衣服在一个多星期后改好时，这家店向我的手机发来短信说：“嗨，宝贝儿，您的衣服改好了。”
For a finale, I headed to World Savage (70 Bussorah Street). Its owners, Bridget-Rose Lee and Hwee Yee Chua, used to own Stevie General Store, a much-beloved vintage shop that opened in 2009 and became known as much for its giant plaster penguin as for its well-curated racks of dresses. With a move to a new location last summer, a fresh name was unveiled, but the feel of the place is the same. Glass cases house items ranging from 1970s Hermès ties to an “evil eye” charm (essentially a miniature blue eyeball) from the 1900s and a rare set of earrings and a necklace featuring intricately carved lavender jade dating back to 1940s China.
最后作为终点，我去了“野人世界”（World Savage，地址：70 Bussorah Street）。它的店主布里吉特－罗斯·李(Bridget-Rose Lee)和蔡慧怡（Hwee Yee Chua，音译）也曾是史蒂夫百货店(Stevie General Store)的主人，那是一家很受欢迎的古着店，在2009年开业，它的巨型石膏企鹅雕塑和它摆设精美的衣饰货架同样出名。去年夏天迁到新的店址之后，揭幕时也出现了新的店名，但这个地方的感觉还是一样的。装在玻璃箱中的商品有20世纪70年代的爱马仕(Hermès)领带，有一个来自20世纪初的“邪眼”(evil eye)护身符（就是一个蓝色的眼球模型），还有一对珍奇的耳环和一条项链，带着切割精致的熏衣草色翡翠，来自20世纪40年代的中国。
Ms. Lee, whose frenetic energy fits her history as a poet turned retailer, threw open the door of a wardrobe to show off some of her favorites: a small collection of 1940s American wedding dresses, some punctuated with powder-blue lace or white rosettes. But the core of the store hung on the jammed racks of men’s shirts and women’s dresses in a wild variety of patterns and colors.
李女士狂热的能量，与她从诗人转行做零售商的历程很契合，她甩开衣橱的一道门，炫耀一些她的至爱珍品：一小系列20世纪40年代的美国婚纱，有些配上了粉蓝色蕾丝花边或是白色花结。不过这家店的核心，还是在那塞得满满的货架上，当中有无论图案和颜色都丰富无比的男士衬衫和女士服饰。
As I tried on a few, Ms. Lee, who buys her clothing mainly from Japan and the United States, explained why Japanese vintage dresses work particularly well no matter your figure. The waist is often just above the natural waistline, making women look a little taller. And the dresses often have beautifully stitched pleats emanating from that waist, creating a flattering silhouette that’s forgiving at the hip.
李女士主要从日本和美国买来她的古着服装，在我试穿上几件的时候，她向我解释为什么无论你的身材如何，穿日本的古着服饰效果都会特别好——它们的腰身常常比正常的腰线就稍高一点点，会让女人们看起来稍为高一点。而女装也常常有一些缝得非常漂亮的褶皱，从腰间放射开来，制造出很讨好的廓形，对臀部特别“宽容”。
The standouts of Ms. Lee’s collection, however, were the handful of vintage Japanese dresses made of kimono silk. The colors and patterns were muted but breathtaking, featuring patterns of leaves or flowers that melt into the background, and the feel of the silk was sheer butter. Because they bore the cut of a day dress, however, the pieces were highly functional, excellent for work or a ladies’ lunch. And at just 130 dollars, they felt like a steal.
不过，在李女士的古着存货中，最突出的是几件用和服绸缎做的日本古着服饰。颜色和图案都很柔和，却美得令人窒息，树叶和花的图案都融化在了背景当中，而绸缎的触感极度顺滑。不过，因为它们是以日常服装的方式剪裁，所以这些衣服都高度实用，非常适合穿去上班或者出席女人的午餐聚会。仅仅130美元的价格，让它们感觉跟偷来的一样值。
More than that, however, they were unlike any pieces I’d encountered in vintage stores on my many travels -- a distinctive window into a slice of the world, notes from a bygone culture encapsulated in a frock.
不过，比这更重要的是，它们和我在很多次的旅游当中逛古着店时所遇到的商品不一样——它们是一个窗口，从中可以看见世界的某一个角落，在一件衣服中，浓缩进了一份久远文化的情怀。