When Li Wentao was deciding where to go to college after graduating from a public high school in China, he knew he wanted to study abroad. But rather than choose a popular student destination like Australia, Britain or the United States, he opted to join a relatively small, though growing, group of students applying to universities in the United Arab Emirates.
即将从中国一所公立中学毕业并面临深造决定时，李文涛（音译）知道他要出国读大学。但是，他没有选择澳大利亚、英国或美国这些广受欢迎的留学目的地，而是选择加入一个相对较小但在不断增长的群体——申请阿拉伯联合酋长国的大学。
“In Dubai, one class has about 10 students,” said Mr. Li, 20, who is now a computer science major at the Dubai campus of the University of Wollongong, a public university based in New South Wales State in Australia. “In China, it’s about 100 students per class, so it’s crowded and hard to learn.”
“在迪拜的大学里，一个班级大约有10名学生，”现年20岁的李文涛说。他现在是澳大利亚新南威尔士州公立大学卧龙岗大学(University of Wollongong)迪拜分校的计算机科学专业学生。“在中国，每个班级约有100名学生，非常拥挤，学习效果比较差。”
Mr. Li said that most of his friends had chosen British or U.S. universities but that he had wanted a different experience.
李文涛说，他的朋友大多选择了英国或美国的大学，但他一直希望有不一样的留学体验。
He also wanted “a place that’s close enough for me to go back every summer to see family and do internships, because I want to work in China when I graduate,” he added.
他想去“一个足够近的地方求学，这样每年夏天能回国去见家人并参加企业实习，因为毕业后我想在中国工作，”他补充说。
University campuses in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and elsewhere in the Emirates are trying to attract more students like Mr. Li by sending recruitment teams to China, which has become the top source of international students in the world. Of about 3.6 million university students studying outside their home country in 2010, 17 percent — the largest chunk — were Chinese, according to the most recent data from the Unesco Institute for Statistics, published last year.
阿布扎比、迪拜和阿联酋其他地方的高校正在试图吸引更多像他这样的学生。它们纷纷派出招生团队，前往中国这个世界上最大的国际学生生源地。联合国教科文组织统计研究所(Unesco Institute for Statistics)去年发布的最新数据显示，2010年，全球约有360万名大学生在外国求学，其中中国留学生占17%，占比最大。
Jeffrey Lehman, vice chancellor of New York University’s new Shanghai campus, which took in its first students last month, said that of 20 million Chinese students who graduate from high school each year, about 200,000 continue their studies at foreign universities. Unesco puts the figure at about 500,000.
纽约大学(New York University)上海分校副校长杰弗里·雷蒙(Jeffrey Lehman)说，每年约有2000万名中国学生从高中毕业，其中约20万名学生会前往外国大学继续求学。纽约大学上海分校上个月迎来了第一批新生。而根据联合国教科文组织的数据，每年前往海外留学的中国高中毕业生为50万左右。
Competition to attract foreign students is fierce among governments that value the long-term benefit of building cultural links with the future elite, along with the immediate benefit of the tuition income that they bring.
各国政府吸引外国生源的竞争激烈，因为从长远来看，这将帮助它们与未来精英建立文化联系。短期而言，外国学生还能直接带来学费收入。
In Britain, for example, a government policy paper published in July, “International Education Strategy,” set out plans to expand the number of international students in Britain by almost 90,000 — a 20 percent increase — by 2018. A few weeks later, Bath Spa University — a former art school and teacher training college in western England that gained university status in 2005 — signed a joint venture deal with Shorelight Education, a U.S. company that specializes in recruiting Chinese and other foreign students to its partner universities. The university said it expected the deal to bring in 300 international students next year, rising to 2,000 a year by 2018.
例如，英国7月份公布了一份政府政策文件《国际教育战略》(International Education Strategy)，计划到2018年将英国吸引的国际生提高近9万人，增幅为20%。几周后，巴斯斯巴大学(Bath Spa University)与美国的Shorelight Education公司签订合资协议。巴斯斯巴大学曾是西英格兰的一所艺术学校和教师培训学院，在2005年获得大学地位。Shorelight Education公司专门为合作伙伴大学招收中国籍以及其他外籍学生。巴斯斯巴大学称，预计该合作将于明年为该校带来300名国际学生，到2018年该校国际生数量将上升到2000名。
In New Zealand, international enrollment in universities fell 3 percent in the 2012-13 academic year, largely because of a rise in tuition rates, according to a government report released in August. Still, the number of Chinese university students rose 5 percent, to more than 14,000, representing about 30 percent of all foreign students in New Zealand universities, according to the report.
新西兰政府8月份公布的一份报告显示，在2012-13学年，新西兰高校的国际招生数量下降3%，主要是因为学费上升。但报告显示，来自中国的大学生增长了5%，至1.4万多人，占新西兰高校所有外国学生人数的30%左右。
In the United States, the University of Southern California recorded the highest number of international students on any American campus last year for the 11th year in a row, according to a report released last fall by the Institute of International Education. The university’s largest foreign student population has consistently been Chinese, with 2,515 of more than 9,000 enrolled in 2012.
国际教育研究所(Institute of International Education)去年秋季公布的一份报告显示，在美国，南加州大学(University of Southern California)去年的国际学生人数连续第11年超过任何其他美国高校。南加州大学最大的外国学生群体一直是中国人，2012年入学的9000余名国际生中有2515人来自中国。
Now, the U.A.E. is eager to attract more Chinese students.
如今，阿拉伯联合酋长国渴望吸引更多的中国学生。
“This will be our first year of looking at China from a student recruitment perspective, we’re still in the early stages of understanding the huge potential there,” said Leigh Ann Jones-Khosla, business development director at the Dubai International Academic City, a “free zone” where 21 universities have set up shop, selling education to more than 20,000 students, tax-free and under 100 percent foreign ownership.
迪拜国际学术城(Dubai International Academic City)业务发展总监雷·安·琼斯-科斯拉(Leigh Ann Jones-Khosla)说，“这将是我们从招生角度看待中国的第一年，我们仍处于理解这方面巨大潜力的早期阶段。”迪拜国际学术城是一个100%外资拥有的自由区，21所高校已经在这里设立了校区，向2万多名学生提供免税教育。
“We need to go to China, be there on the ground, meet people working in higher education, and understand the main reasons why half a million Chinese students pursue university abroad each year,” said Ms. Jones-Khosla. “We need to promote Dubai as a place they can easily get student visas and find jobs upon graduation.”
“我们需要到中国去，面对面地与当地高等教育从业者交流，去了解每年有50万名中国学生出国读大学背后的主要原因，”琼斯-科斯拉女士说，“我们需要让中国学生知道，迪拜的学生签证很容易申请，并且从迪拜高校毕业后很容易找到工作。”
Ms. Jones-Khosla is planning to attend the China Education Expo this year for the first time as a representative of the D.I.A.C. universities. The Expo is an annual recruitment fair held in November in Beijing, Shanghai and three other Chinese cities.
琼斯-科斯拉女士计划代表迪拜国际学术城首次参加今年召开的中国国际教育展(China Education Expo)。中国国际教育展是一年一度的招生洽谈会，将于11月在北京、上海和中国其他三个城市召开。
Yang Songyishu, who grew up in China, said she had chosen to attend N.Y.U. in Abu Dhabi because she wanted to study civil engineering with a concentration in urban planning, a course of study she was unable to find at home.
在中国长大的杨松一澍说，她选择了纽约大学阿布扎比分校，原因是她想攻读土木工程专业城市规划方向的课程，而这一课程在国内高校是没有的。
“I graduated from one of the best public high schools in China, and there was huge pressure to get into a good school, but I felt like the undergraduate programs at home were not what I was looking for because they focused heavily on technical skills like math and science,” said Ms. Yang, 21, who is now in her final year.
“我毕业于中国最好的公立高中之一，在国内要进入一个好大学要面临巨大压力，但我感觉国内本科课程不是我所青睐的，因为它们太倚重数学和理科等技术技能，”现年21岁的杨松一澍说。她现在是纽约大学阿布扎比分校的大四学生。
“I wanted to combine engineering with social sciences and visual arts, and when I learned about how the Gulf region is also going through large-scale urbanization and construction — like China — it was a clear choice for me,” she said. “In China, we’ve also faced similar urbanization problems, lots of immigrants and the issue of preserving cultural identity.”
“我想集工程技术、社会科学和视觉艺术于一体，当我了解到海湾地区也像中国一样正在经历大规模的城市化和建设，这对我来说成为了一个明确的选择，”她说，“在中国，我们也面临着类似的城市化问题，大量的移民和维护文化身份的问题。”
When she graduates next spring, she said, she would like to work either in China or in the U.A.E., preferably on projects that somehow relate to her home country. At N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi, there are 27 Chinese students like Ms. Yang, according to Greg Bruno, N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi’s spokesman.
她说，明年春季毕业时，她想在中国或是阿联酋工作，最好所涉及项目与中国有关。纽约大学阿布扎比分校发言人格雷格·布鲁诺(Greg Bruno)说，在纽约大学阿布扎比分校，有27位像杨女士这样的中国学生。
Finding jobs after college is a pressing concern for young graduates more or less everywhere, but it has become particularly problematic in China, where more than three million of the seven million university students who graduated this year were still searching for work in August, the state-run China Daily newspaper said, quoting government officials.
大学毕业后找工作的问题对于任何地方的年轻大学毕业生或多或少都是一个紧迫的问题。但在中国这个问题尤其棘手，国有英文媒体《中国日报》(China Daily)援引政府官员的话报道，今年毕业的700万名大学生中有300多万在8月份还在寻找工作。
With the U.S and European economies struggling to pick up steam, Chinese exports have suffered. China’s gross domestic product growth rate has dropped to 7.5 percent this year — a marked decline from the double-digit annual growth recorded over the past 10 years. One consequence has been rising youth unemployment, which in turn has affected students’ study choices.
由于美国和欧洲经济仍在艰难蓄势，中国的出口受到打击。今年中国国内生产总值(GDP)增长率已下降至7.5%，较过去10年每年两位数的增速显著放缓。其中一个后果是年轻人失业率不断上升，这反过来又影响了学生的学业选择。
“Thirty-five years ago, China was completely sealed off from the world,” Mr. Lehman, of N.Y.U. Shanghai, said in an interview. “Today, the dominant desire is for open engagement.”
“35年前，中国被完全隔离于世界其他地区之外，”纽约大学上海分校的雷蒙先生在接受采访时说，“如今，主流的愿望是开放的参与。”
This change in student mentalities and aspirations, he said, “requires a complete transformation” of China’s universities “to make them attractive to international students and teachers, to teach in ways that better develop students’ creative capabilities.”
他说，由于学生的心态和理想发生变化，中国的高校“需要全面转型，以吸引国际学生和教师并采取能够更好培养学生创造性能力的教学方式。”
That is a tall order, Mr. Lehman said, but until it happens, bright, outward-looking Chinese students with an eye on the international job market will continue to seek immersion in foreign cultures and different, flexible styles of teaching.
雷蒙先生说，这是一项艰巨的任务，但在转型发生前，着眼国际就业市场的聪明的外向型中国学生将继续寻求浸润于外国文化和迥异、灵活的教学风格中。
The rising Chinese student presence in the U.A.E. is part of a broader trend.
阿联酋越来越多的中国学生是一个大趋势的一部分。
Emirates and other airlines based in the Gulf region are adding more frequent routes to and from China as they position themselves as intercontinental travel hubs and as Chinese tourism rises. Data from Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate and hotel consulting firm, show that 214,000 Chinese tourists visited Dubai in 2011, up from 25,000 a decade earlier. The Chinese expatriate community in Dubai numbered about 180,000, or 2.2 percent of the U.A.E.’s population, in 2011, according to local newspaper reports. Anecdotal evidence suggests it has grown since then.
随着中国游客数量的增长，将自身定位为洲际旅行枢纽的阿联酋航空(Emirates)以及其他总部设在海湾地区的航空公司增加了前往和来自中国的频飞航线。房地产及酒店咨询公司仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)的数据显示，2011年，前往迪拜旅行的中国游客数量达到21.4万人，大幅高于10年前的2.5万人。根据当地报纸报道，2011年，居住在迪拜的中国籍人士的数量约18万人，占阿联酋人口2.2%。有证据表明，自那时以来，这一数字在不断增长。
“We want to see a significant number of Chinese students here, to mirror the decent Chinese population that already exists,” said Ms. Khosla-Jones. “They’re all after something they can find here more readily than in other economies these days: jobs.”
“我们希望在这里看到相当多的中国学生，与阿联酋当地的华人人口相匹配，”科斯拉-琼斯女士说，“相比其他经济体，他们在这里能更轻松地获得工作机会。”