Google wants to make it easy for travelers to decide where and when to go on vacation, and to see at a glance what a trip is likely to cost, right from their mobile phones.
谷歌希望帮旅行者更轻松地决定何时、去哪儿度假，能从手机上一眼看到一场旅行可能要花多少钱。
The company on Wednesday announced a search feature, Destinations on Google, that touches on almost every aspect of a vacation, from research to flight selection, hotel booking and itinerary planning. Destinations does not offer off-the-beaten-path guides or exclusive information that can’t be found elsewhere on the web. Rather, it’s meant to make researching and planning a trip on a mobile phone (typically a clumsy experience) more intuitive and productive for the occasional traveler by delivering good-quality basic information.
周三，这家公司发布了一个搜索功能，名叫谷歌目的地(Destinations on Google)。它几乎涉及度假的各个方面，从做功课到航班选择、酒店预订和旅程计划。谷歌目的地不提供打破常规的旅行指南或者在网上其他地方找不到的独家信息。它只是为了帮助偶尔旅行的用户更简便、高效地在手机上（通常不太好处理）做功课和计划旅行，给他们提供高质量的基本信息。
This is the first time Google has introduced a travel tool on mobile (where people are increasingly spending their time) before desktop; it’s available through your mobile browser or the Google app on iOS and Android. Everything on Destinations begins with a single search screen; there’s no drilling down through multiple websites and hopping among them, no entering your desired number of nights or travel companions again and again. Here’s how it works.
在电脑端之前，先在手机端推出一个旅行工具（人们现在使用手机的时间越来越长），此举在谷歌尚属首次。你通过手机浏览器或iOS和安卓的谷歌应用程序可以找到它。谷歌目的地上的所有内容都以一个简单的搜索页面开始。你不必在多个网站深入研究或来回切换，也不必一次又一次输入你想住几晚或有几位旅伴。下面介绍一下具体怎么操作。
Where to Go
目的地
On your smartphone, open your browser or the Google app and search for, say, “Europe vacation.” A grid of multiple destination tiles will appear — Paris, London, Rome, Barcelona, Madrid, Prague, Amsterdam, to name a few — each with an appealing photo. These are the most popular European destinations according to Google. Each photo has a bit of information beneath it, including the cheapest week to go within the next six months (based on your origin and the destination), the cost of the cheapest flight for that week, as well as the average price of a hotel (three-star or the next available class).
在智能手机上打开浏览器或谷歌应用程序，搜索（举个例子）“欧洲度假”，会出现一组目的地的迷人照片，比如巴黎、伦敦、罗马、巴塞罗那、马德里、布拉格和阿姆斯特丹。这些是由谷歌所统计出来的最热门的欧洲旅游目的地。每张照片下面有一些简短的信息，包括在接下来的六个月里哪周去最便宜（根据你的出发地和目的地），那一周最便宜的航班票价，以及酒店（三星酒店或临近级别）的平均价格。
It’s Europe at-a-glance, an easy-to-scroll, elegant reminder of some of what’s out there — emphasis on “some of.” If you’re looking for less frequented and up-and-coming places such as Sarajevo in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have to make your initial search more specific: Instead of searching for “Europe vacation,” search instead for “southern Europe vacation” and you’ll find it. Or, if you have a particular destination in mind, like Split in Croatia, you can type “Split, Croatia vacation” into the search box and it will turn up. In other words, you can search at the city, state (“California destinations”), country or continent level. If you just search for Greece, for instance, you’ll see a carousel of “destinations” (Athens, Santorini, Rhodes) that you can scroll through and click into for more details.
只要一瞥，就能简单地滚动翻看欧洲度假信息，让它优雅地告知你一些旅游目的地，方便你快速滚动翻看。记住：只是其中“一些”。如果你想寻找游人较少或初露头角的地点，比如波黑的萨拉热窝，那么你的初始搜索必须更具体：不要搜索“欧洲度假”，而是搜索“南欧度假”，你就会找到它。或者，如果你心里已经有了一个具体的目的地，比如克罗地亚的斯普利特，你可以在搜索框中输入“克罗地亚斯普利特度假”，就会出现你想要的信息。换句话说，你可以在城市、州（“比如加利福尼亚州目的地”）、国家或大洲各个层次进行搜索。比如，如果你只是搜索希腊，你会看到好几个目的地滚动出现（比如雅典、桑托林、罗德岛）。你可以滚动浏览，点击查看更多具体信息。
A word of caution: When you begin a search, Google uses your current location to determine the origin city (and therefore the price) for flights. That’s a problem since I might be in Miami when I want to research a trip from New York to Latin America. Google did not confirm whether in the future users will be able to set their starting point, but it seems a logical next step.
提醒一句：你开始搜索时，谷歌会把你当时的所在地作为出发地（价格也是依此计算）。这会产生一个问题：因为我可能在迈阿密，但我想搜索从纽约到拉美的旅行。谷歌尚未明确表示，未来会不会允许用户自己设定出发地，不过我觉得很应该改一下。
Narrow the Options
缩小选择范围
You can filter those “Europe vacation” search results by travel dates, price and interests such as architecture, beach, camping, culture, golf, hiking, nature, sailing, skiing. Just tap the appropriate heading on the top of the screen and adjust the filters. Your search results will update accordingly. When I filtered Europe for skiing, for instance, my screen was instantly repopulated with images of mountains and vacation options for Bansko, Bulgaria; Chamonix, France; Zermatt, Switzerland; St. Anton am Arlberg, Austria; Sierra Nevada Ski Station, Spain; and more.
你可以在“欧洲度假”的搜索结果根据旅行日期、价格和兴趣点中进行筛选，比如建筑物、海滩、野营、文化、高尔夫、徒步旅行、自然风光、航行和滑雪。点击屏幕上方合适的类目，调整筛选项。你的搜索结果将随之更新。比如，当我把欧洲的搜索结果设定为滑雪之后，我的屏幕上很快出现很多大山和滑雪度假地的图片，比如保加利亚班斯科、法国沙莫尼、瑞士采尔马特、奥地利阿尔堡圣安东滑雪场和西班牙内华达山等。
Delve Deeper
深入挖掘
See that lovely photo of Venice? Tap it, or the photo of any city on your screen that captures your imagination, to learn more. Background information about each place is culled from Wikipedia as well as from a New York content team that also writes the descriptions for Google Maps. On each destination page, on a tab that says Explore, you can check out its top sights (in Amsterdam, for example, the Rijksmuseum, Anne Frank House, Vondelpark), see popular travel months for tourists, find out about the climate and watch related videos (more users are turning to mobile video for travel research, Google said).
看到威尼斯的那张可爱照片了吗？点击它或者点击屏幕上让符合你想象中任何一座城市的照片，了解更多信息。关于每个地方的背景信息来自维基百科和纽约的一个内容团队，该团队也为谷歌地图撰写情况描述。在每个目的地的页面上，点击名为探索(Explore)的图标，你会看到它最热门的景点（以阿姆斯特丹为例，会出现国立博物馆[Rijksmuseum]、安妮之家[Anne Frank House]和冯德尔公园[Vondelpark]）和旅游旺季，了解那里的气候，观看相关视频（谷歌称，在进行旅行搜索时，越来越多的用户会观看手机视频）。
The “top sights” are just that: the obvious must-see attractions, not lesser-known gems or nascent activities. And sorry, foodies, you won’t find a guide to restaurants and bars, either. Think of Destinations as your basic Crayola crayon box; it is not aimed at those who want Magic Mint.
“顶级景点”指的是那些明显的必看景点，而不是不太出名的迷人景点或新兴活动。对不起，美食家们，你们也找不到餐馆和酒吧指南。你可以把谷歌目的地看作最基本的绘儿乐(Crayola)蜡笔盒，目标客户并那些想要薄荷绿蜡笔的人。
Build an Itinerary
制定旅程计划
On that same destination page that you reached by tapping a photo is a Plan a Trip tab that allows you to select how many people are traveling, the number of stops you’re willing to make when you fly, the number of nights you plan to stay and your desired hotel class (up to five stars). Once you add those details you can use an interactive price bar graph. With a swipe right or left it slides through the months, showing you the changing price of your trip over time.
在通过点击图片出现的那个目的地页面上有个“计划旅行”(Plan a Trip)按钮，点击它，你可以选择旅行人数，选择航班时愿意在几个地方停留，打算停留几晚，以及想住的酒店星级（最高五星级）。添加上这些详细信息之后，会出现一个互动价格表。左右滑动显示不同的月份，你可以看到不同时间旅行价格的变化。
One of the niftiest features of Destinations is Popular Itineraries: trips through a country in a logical order with details about how far apart each site or activity is so you can maximize your time. But unlike most itineraries you find in travel publications, Popular Itineraries are not created by editors or writers. They are based on anonymous and aggregated data across a large pool of travelers who have opted into sharing their mobile location data with Google. It’s the same technology Google uses to create its Popular Times graphs; i.e. people using mobile phones in a restaurant help Google determine the busiest and slowest times. As a result, you can see, for example, that on a Thursday night Bar Boulud in New York is most popular between 5:30 and 7:30 p.m. and that getting a seat at 10 p.m. would be easier.
谷歌目的地最吸引人的一个特色功能是热门旅行计划(Popular Itineraries)。它按照一定的逻辑顺序安排在某个国家的旅行，并详细说明前后两个地点或活动之间有多远，以便你充分利用时间。不过，跟你在旅行图书上看到的大部分旅行计划不同，热门旅行计划不是编辑或作者设计的，而是基于匿名旅行者自愿与谷歌分享的庞大的手机定位数据库。谷歌也是利用同一技术创制自己的热门时间表(Popular Times)——人们在一家餐馆使用手机的数据可以帮助谷歌确定这家餐馆最忙碌和最空闲的时间段。比如说，你能知道，周二晚上，纽约的Bar Boulud酒吧在下午5点半至7点半人最多，那说明晚上10点更容易得到座位。
To find Popular Itineraries, search for a country and add “vacation” or “travel.” Google will then turn up a guide; to get it, click on the blue button under the basic information for the country. When I searched for “France vacation,” there were several Popular Itineraries in the travel guide, including seven days in Nice, Avignon, Montpellier, Toulouse and Bordeaux; four days in Paris, Burgundy and Lyon; and five days in Paris, Strasbourg and Colmar.
找到热门旅行计划的方法是，搜索一个国家，并加上“度假”或“旅行”。谷歌就会弹出一个指南，点击这个国家基本信息下方的蓝色按钮。我搜索“法国度假”时，出现了几个热门旅行计划，包括尼斯、阿维尼翁、蒙彼利埃、图卢兹和波尔多七日游；巴黎、勃艮第和里昂四日游；巴黎、斯特拉斯堡和科尔马五日游。
A different feature, Suggested Itineraries, is not currently based on aggregate phone data; it offers sample itineraries for cities, not entire countries, by the content team at Google.
还有一个特色功能叫推荐旅行计划(Suggested Itineraries)，它不是基于手机数据，而是谷歌的内容团队提供的城市旅行计划样板——不是整个国家的旅行计划。
Book Your Trip
行程预定
While some Destinations features call to mind online travel agencies like Expedia and Travelocity, Destinations is not meant to emphasize shopping for flights and hotels. Its primary purpose, a Google product manager told me, is to help users figure out where to go. The technology of Google Flights, my go-to comparison tool, and hotel search are baked into Destinations. Google Flights shows options across multiple airlines, but to book you go to an airline’s own website. Choosing a hotel through Destinations takes you to a Google search page with information about the hotel, its location, reviews and the option to book through a partner site such as Hotels.com, Booking.com or Venere.com.
虽然谷歌目的地的某些功能让人想起一些在线旅行代理公司，比如Expedia和Travelocity，但它的重点不在于订机票和酒店。谷歌的一位产品经理对我说，谷歌目的地的主要目的是帮助用户想好去哪儿旅行。谷歌航班（Google Flights，我最喜欢的比较工具）的技术以及酒店搜索的功能也融入谷歌目的地。谷歌航班显示多家航空公司的航班选择，但是要预订的话，你需要去航空公司自己的网站。通过谷歌目的地选择一家酒店后，你会看到一个谷歌搜索页面，上面有这家酒店的位置等基本信息和评论，你还可以通过Hotels.com、Booking.com和Venere.com等合作网站进行预订。
Bottom Line
总而言之
Google says Destinations is designed for the leisure traveler who takes a trip or two a year and is concerned about making the right choices for that big getaway. He or she is interested in popular places and wants to see the major sites.
谷歌表示，谷歌目的地是为那些一年进行一两次旅行的休闲旅行者服务的，对这样的长时间出行，他们很担心自己的选择正确与否。他们对热门旅行地点感兴趣，想去看看那些重要景点。
Destinations is not for those looking for obscure art galleries, or for foodies seeking the next great restaurant or food truck. Experienced travelers who have a short list of where they want to go, who fly frequently, who use particular airlines because they have elite status and who seek off-the-beaten path itineraries won’t be surprised by the cities or points of interest they see on Destinations.
谷歌目的地不是为那些寻找隐蔽艺术画廊的旅行者服务的，也不是为寻找下一个杰出餐厅或美食车的美食家服务的。有经验的旅行者——比如明确知道自己想去哪里的人，经常飞行的人，因具有贵宾地位而使用特定航空公司的人，或寻找新颖旅行路线的人——不会为谷歌目的地上提供的城市或兴趣点感到惊喜。
That said, chances are they’ll like the planning tools. The price bar graph is a quick way to narrow down when to go. And a flexible dates feature allows you to say that you want to go in June, for instance, and then see your travel options for the entire month, rather than for specific dates. Details about rainfall and temperature mean you don’t have to run a separate search to see if you were planning to visit during hurricane season. And Points of Interest and Suggested Itineraries could be handy for business travelers parachuting into a place for a night or two but hoping to get to a must-see spot between meetings.
尽管如此，他们还是有可能喜欢上这些计划工具。价格表能让他们很快缩小时间选择范围。因为它提供灵活的日期选择功能，所以你可以说，比如要6月份去旅行，然后看看这个月你有哪些旅行选择，而不必非要先确定具体的日子。它提供下雨和温度等详细信息，所以你也不必再去单独查找你选择的旅行时间是否正值飓风季。兴趣点(Points of Interest)和推荐旅行计划对商务旅行者来说可能很方便。他们可能突然需要飞到一座城市呆一两天，想在会议间歇看看那里的必看景点。
Is Destinations regularly unearthing hidden treasures? No. Does Destinations make it easier to spark ideas and to start plotting? Absolutely. You can type “Caribbean vacation” in the search box and instantly begin finding the island that’s right for you. You can do that on some vacation-idea apps, but most are haphazard and, more important, divorced from useful information about flights and hotels. Destinations on Google integrates the puzzle pieces.
谷歌目的地是否会定期挖掘一些不为人知的珍贵景点？不会。它是否更容易激发的旅行想法并开始计划？绝对是。你可以在搜索框中输入“加勒比度假”，然后很快开始寻找适合你的小岛。其他一些度假想法应用程序也能帮你，但它们的信息大部分都没有数据支持，更重要的是，它们与有用的航班和酒店信息分离。谷歌目的地把这些拼图拼到了一起。