In the early 2000s, a brutal conflict in western Sudan between the government and rebels led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Darfuris, with millions displaced as refugees. In 2004, the United States declared Sudan’s actions a genocide.
21世纪初，在苏丹西部，政府和反政府武装之间的一场残酷冲突导致数十万达尔富尔人丧生，数百万难民流离失所。2004年，美国宣布苏丹发生的事情属于种族灭绝。
After that spike in attention and concern, the world has largely forgotten about Darfur. Unfortunately, the government of Sudan has not.
世界对苏丹的重视和关注一度有所激增，之后便在很大程度上忘记了达尔富尔。不幸的是，苏丹政府却没有。
Because Sudan’s government routinely blocks journalists from going into the Darfur region and severely restricts access for humanitarian workers, any window into life there is limited. The government has hammered the joint peacekeeping mission of the United Nations and African Union into silence about human rights concerns by shutting down the United Nations human rights office in the capital, Khartoum, hampering investigators of alleged human rights abuses and pressuring the peacekeeping force to withdraw.
因为苏丹政府经常阻止记者进入达尔富尔地区，严格限制人道主义工作者的介入，外界对于那里生活情况的了解十分有限。苏丹政府通过关闭位于首都喀土穆的联合国人权办公室，阻挠调查疑似侵犯人权事件的人员，及向维和部队施压，要他们撤出该国，让联合国和非洲联盟的维和特派团陷入沉寂。
Just last week, the regime reportedly convinced the peacekeeping mission to pull out of areas it says are stable, hoping no one takes a closer look. As a result, mass atrocities continue to occur in Darfur with no external witness. This is also the case in Blue Nile and the Nuba Mountains, two southern regions devastated by the government’s scorched-earth tactics.
就在上周，据说苏丹政权说服了维和特派团，让他们撤出它所说的局势稳定地区。该政权希望没有人去那里认真调查。这样一来，大规模暴行继续在达尔富尔发生，但却没有外界的见证。在被政府焦土战术摧毁的两个南部地区布鲁尼罗(Blue Nile)和努巴山区(Nuba Mountains)，情况也是一样。
Every once in a while, however, a sliver of evidence emerges. In recent years, citizen journalists and human rights defenders from Darfur and the Nuba Mountains have smuggled out videos showing bombing raids and burning villages. Images captured by our Satellite Sentinel Project confirmed the systematic burning and barrel bombing of at least half a dozen villages in Darfur’s eastern Jebel Marra area last year.
但是每过一段时间，就有零星证据出现。近年来，达尔富尔和努巴山区的公民记者和人权捍卫者悄悄送出来一些视频，显示了村庄被轰炸和焚烧的状况。我们的卫星哨兵项目(Satellite Sentinel Project)获得的图像也证实，去年在达尔富尔东部杰贝尔马拉区域，至少有六个村庄遭到了有计划的焚烧和“油桶炸弹”攻击。
To avoid scrutiny, the government has spent millions of dollars provided by Qatar to set up “model villages,” where it encourages Darfuris displaced by violence to settle. Human Rights Watch recently documented a chilling incident of mass rape at one of these villages, Tabit.
为了转移注意力，苏丹政府把卡塔尔支援的数千万美元用来打造“示范村”，鼓励因暴力而流离失所的达尔富尔人在这些村子里定居下来。但在其中一个村子塔比特(Tabit)，最近发生了令人心寒的大规模强奸事件，被人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)记录在案。
After collecting more than 130 witness and survivor testimonies over the phone, its researchers concluded that at least 221 women had been raped by soldiers of the Sudanese Army over a 36-hour period last October. The peacekeepers’ attempts to investigate this incident were obstructed by the government, which allowed them into the town briefly for interviews that were conducted in a climate of intimidation. A leaked memo from the peacekeeping mission shows that Sudanese troops listened in on and even recorded many of the interviews. Since then, the people of Tabit have had their freedom of movement severely curtailed.
通过电话收集了130多个证人和幸存者的证词后，该组织的研究人员得出结论，在去年10月一段持续36小时的时间里，至少有221名妇女遭到苏丹军队士兵强奸。维和人员试图调查这一事件，却遭到政府阻扰，政府允许他们短暂进入该镇，在恐吓的气氛中进行谈话。维和特派团泄露的备忘录表明，有苏丹士兵在旁边偷听，甚至录下了许多的交谈内容。此后，塔比特村民的行动自由就遭到了严重限制。
The army had controlled the town since 2011, with a base on the outskirts, and was not trying to drive the population from their homes to gain territory. The sexual violence has no military objective; rather, it is a tactic of social control, ethnic domination and demographic change. Acting with impunity, government forces victimize the entire community. Racial subordination is also an underlying message, as non-Arab groups are singled out for abuse.
军队自2011年后控制了该镇，并在郊区设有一个基地，他们并不是想把人们赶出家园，以便获得土地。性暴力没有军事目的，而是一种社会控制、种族统治和人口改变策略。逍遥法外的政府军对整个社区施暴。这里另一层暗含的讯息和种族等级有关，因为被挑出来施虐对象群体都不是阿拉伯裔。
Human rights courts around the world have found that rapes by army officials or police officers can constitute torture. When issuing its findings about crimes committed in a similar situation in Bosnia, the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia determined that the rapes of women at two camps were acts of torture since sexual violence was used as an instrument of terror. The mass rapes in Tabit follow the same pattern.
世界各地的人权法院都认为，军人和警察实施的强奸可以构成酷刑罪。前南斯拉夫问题国际刑事法庭(International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia)就波斯尼亚发生的类似罪行发布调查结果时，将在两个营地强奸妇女的行为判定为酷刑，因为性暴力成了恐怖手段。在塔比特发生的大规模强奸事件也存在相同的模式。
During our own visits to Darfur, the Nuba Mountains and refugee camps in neighboring countries, we have heard story after story like those from Tabit. These “torture rapes” are just one tool in Sudan’s criminal arsenal, which also includes aerial bombing of hospitals and agricultural fields, burning of villages and the denial of food aid.
我们自己前往达尔富尔地区、努巴山区和邻国难民营探访时，也听到过类似于塔比特的事情。在苏丹，这种“酷刑强奸”只是犯罪方式之一，其他还包括空袭医院和农田、焚烧村庄和封锁粮食援助等。
Over time, international outrage has shifted away from Darfur. When change doesn’t come fast enough, attention spans are short — especially for places that appear to have no strategic importance. In the last two years, however, Darfur became important to the Sudanese government when major gold reserves were discovered in North Darfur, the region that includes Tabit.
久而久之，国际社会对达尔富尔地区的愤怒情绪已经逐渐消失。当改变来得不够快时，关注的时期是非常短暂的，特别是那些似乎没有战略意义的地方。但在过去两年中，达尔富尔对于苏丹政府来说变得非常重要，因为在北达尔富尔地区发现了大量黄金矿藏，该地区涵盖塔比特。
When South Sudan won its independence in 2011, the part of Sudan left behind lost its biggest source of foreign exchange earnings: oil revenues. So gold has become the new oil for Sudan.
当南苏丹在2011年赢得独立时，苏丹的其他地区失去了最大的外汇收入来源：石油收入。因此对于苏丹来说，黄金成了新的石油。
According to the International Monetary Fund, gold sales earned Sudan $1.17 billion last year. Much of that gold is coming from Darfur and other conflict zones. The government has attempted to consolidate its control over the country’s gold mines in part by violent ethnic cleansing.
据国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)透露，苏丹去年的黄金销售收入达到了11.7亿美元（约合71.9亿元人民币）。其中大部分黄金来自达尔富尔及其他冲突地带。苏丹政府试图通过暴力种族清洗行动等手段加强对该国金矿的控制。
Unfortunately, the United Nations Security Council is too divided to respond with action to the crimes being committed in Darfur and other parts of Sudan. Russia and China, which have commercial links to Khartoum through arms sales and oil deals, are unwilling to apply pressure that might alter the calculations of the Khartoum government. But that doesn’t mean the international community is without leverage.
遗憾的是，在应对达尔富尔及苏丹其他地区出现的罪行上，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)内部的分歧非常大。俄罗斯和中国与喀土穆存在商业联系——武器销售和石油交易，它们不愿施加可能会改变喀土穆政府策略的压力。但这并不意味着国际社会没有影响力。
First, international banks, gold refiners and associations like the Dubai Multi Commodities Center and the London Bullion Market Association should raise alerts for Sudanese gold and initiate audits to trace it all to its mine of origin to ensure that purchases are not fueling war crimes in Darfur. The gold industry has already adopted a similar approach to suppliers in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
首先，国际银行、黄金精炼厂，以及迪拜多种商品交易中心( Dubai Multi Commodities Center)、伦敦金银市场协会(London Bullion Market Association)等组织应该对苏丹黄金提高警惕，开始进行调查，追踪黄金的来源，以确保购买行为不会加剧达尔富尔地区战争罪行。黄金产业已经对刚果民主共和国的供应商采用了类似的方法。
Second, the international community has imposed sanctions unevenly and without sufficient enforcement to have a significant impact. The United States and other countries should expand sanctions and step up enforcement to pressure Sudan to observe human rights and to negotiate for peace. Most important, the next wave of American sanctions should target the facilitators, including Sudanese and international banks, that do business with the regime either directly or through partners.
第二，国际社会没有均衡地施加制裁，也没有足够的执行力度，因此很难产生重大影响。美国和其他国家应该扩大制裁范围，加强实施力度，迫使苏丹关注人权问题，进行和平谈判。最重要的是，美国的下一波制裁应该针对为该政权提供服务和帮助的人和机构，比如直接或通过合作伙伴与该政权做生意的苏丹银行及国际银行。