ABOARD THE U.S.S. CARL VINSON, in the Persian Gulf — More than a dozen Navy F/A-18 warplanes roar off this aircraft carrier every day to attack Islamic State targets in support of Iraqi troops battling to regain ground lost to the militants in June.
波斯湾卡尔文森号航空母舰——每天都会有十几架海军F/A-18战机从这艘航空母舰上起飞，前去攻击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子，为作战的伊拉克部队提供支援，他们正努力夺回今年6月被伊斯兰国武装分子占领的领土。
These Navy pilots face an array of lethal risks during their six-hour round-trip missions. Surface-to-air missiles and other enemy fire lurk below, as the downing of an Iraqi military helicopter late Friday underscored. About 60 percent of the aircrews are still learning the ropes on their first combat tours.
这些海军飞行员在往返六个小时执行任务期间，面临着很多致命的危险，比如地对空导弹袭击，以及敌方下面发起的其他攻击。伊拉克的一架军用直升机于周五晚间坠毁，就突显出了这样的威胁。
The United States-led coalition improvises how the Iraqis call in airstrikes: Iraqi troops talk by radio to American controllers at Iraqi command centers, who in turn talk to the Navy pilots to help pinpoint what to hit. Senior commanders have said that placing American spotters with the Iraqi troops would be more effective, but they have yet to recommend that step knowing that President Obama opposes it.
以美国为首的联盟在让伊拉克人呼叫空中支援方面，有些因陋就简：伊拉克部队通过无线电与伊拉克指挥中心的美国指挥人员通话，后者再与海军飞行员沟通，帮助指示攻击目标。高级将领表示，在伊拉克部队中安排美军人员进行观察和定位，会更加有效。但他们知道奥巴马总统反对这种做法，因此尚未提出相关建议。
In the initial weeks of an air campaign that started in August, Iraq’s troops were tentative. Fighters from the Islamic State, also called ISIS or ISIL, quickly learned not to move in large numbers to avoid being struck. Three out of every four missions still return with their bombs for lack of approved targets.
空袭行动始于今年8月，在最初几周里，伊拉克部队的行动有些迟疑。伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）武装分子很快就认识到，要避免大批人员一起行动，以防止遭到攻击。由于缺少确定的目标，四分之三的轰炸任务都无功而返，又把炸弹带了回来。
But in recent days, the Iraqis have been advancing, forcing ISIS to fight more in the open. The airstrikes are severing the militants’ supply lines, killing some top leaders and crimping their ability to pump and ship the oil that they control.
但近日，伊拉克军队不断推进，迫使ISIS更多地在空旷地带作战。空袭行动切断了武装分子的补给线，击毙了一些高级头目，并削弱了武装分子对他们控制的石油进行开采和运送的能力。
“It wasn’t going so well there for a while, but the momentum seems to have reversed,” said Cmdr. Eric Doyle, a 41-year-old F/A-18 Hornet pilot from Houston who also flew combat missions in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.
“有一段时间情况并不好，但势头似乎已经扭转过来，”41岁的F/A-18大黄蜂飞行员埃里克·多伊尔中校(Eric Doyle)说。来自休斯顿的多伊尔还曾在伊拉克和阿富汗战争期间，执行过飞行作战任务。
About one quarter of the 1,200 total airstrikes in Iraq and Syria so far have been flown off a carrier — the other missions began from bases around the gulf — an enduring symbol of American power in the Middle East.
到目前为止，共对伊拉克及叙利亚发动了1200次空袭，其中四分之一的行动是由从航空母舰上起飞执行的——航母长期以来是美国在中东地区实力的象征。其他的空袭任务则是从海湾周边的基地出发。
After ISIS fighters rolled south into Mosul six months ago and threatened Baghdad, the Pentagon rushed the carrier George H.W. Bush to the Persian Gulf from the coast of the Pakistan, where it was flying missions in support of American troops in Afghanistan.
六个月前，ISIS武装分子一路南下攻入摩苏尔，对巴格达造成威胁。五角大楼立即将乔治·H·W·布什号(George H.W. Bush)航空母舰派往了波斯湾。这艘航母原本在巴基斯坦沿海执行飞行任务，为驻阿富汗美军提供支援。
Within two days, the carrier was sending surveillance and reconnaissance flights over Iraq and Syria. It was weeks before the United States ironed out arrangements with regional allies to allow land-based planes to carry out strikes. The Vinson relieved the Bush in mid-October, and will stay until next spring.
两天之内，这艘航母就向伊拉克和叙利亚派出了侦察机。几周后，美国与地区盟友达成一致，允许地面基地的飞机执行空袭任务。卡尔文森号航母于10月中旬接替布什号，将在该地区停留至明年春天。
“You don’t have to ask anybody for permission to use a carrier,” said Vice Adm. John W. Miller, commander of the Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain. “It’s five acres of sovereign U.S. territory.”
“动用航空母舰不需要征得任何人的同意，”总部位于巴林的海军第五舰队(Fifth Fleet)司令约翰·W·米勒中将(Vice Adm. John W. Miller)说。“这五英亩（约合2公顷）的面积属于美国领土。”
This ship has an unusual place in the annals of the campaign against terrorism. Some of the first airstrikes of the Afghan war in October 2001 were by jets from the Vinson; nearly a decade later, it was here that Navy SEALs brought Osama bin Laden’s body after the raid in Pakistan, and buried it at sea after religious rites on the lower hangar deck.
这艘航母在反恐行动的历史上有着不同寻常的地位。2001年10月，阿富汗战争首轮空袭行动中的部分任务，就是由卡尔文森号航母上的飞机执行的；大约10年之后，海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)在巴基斯坦对奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)实施突袭，随后将他的遗体运回航母，并在机库甲板上举行宗教仪式，然后对其进行了海葬。
The flight deck is the bustling hub of this nuclear-powered behemoth, which is home to 5,200 sailors and officers for nearly 10 months at a time. Sailors in light helmets and tinted goggles, mostly in their early 20s, scurry about in vests and long-sleeve shirts color-coded to their jobs — red shirts handle bombs, purple shirts handle fuel, yellow shirts handle the flights.
在这艘以核能驱动的庞然大物上，飞行甲板是一个忙碌的活动中心，舰上可以同时搭载5200名海军官兵，他们要在舰上生活将近10个月。佩戴轻型头盔和彩色护目镜、身穿背心及彩色长袖衫的士兵不停奔忙，不同的颜色代表不同的工作——身穿红色服装的士兵负责处理炸弹，紫色服装负责燃料，而黄色服装则负责飞行事宜。
Racks of bombs and missiles rise from elevators below deck amid the din. MH-60 Seahawk search-and-rescue helicopters buzz overhead on their way out to sea.
在一片嘈杂声中，放置炸弹和导弹的架子通过甲板下方的升降机升起。MH-60海鹰(Seahawk)搜索救援直升机从头顶呼啸而过，飞向大海。
It is like a crowded suburban parking lot, except these are $57 million jets taxiing for takeoff with 500-pound laser-guided bombs tucked under their wings. The slightest misstep around these high-performance jets and turboprop planes could be fatal. “Beware of Jet Blast, Propellers and Rotors” is emblazoned in large yellow letters on the ship’s superstructure, lest anyone forget.
如果不是有价值5700万美元（约合3.5亿元人民币）的飞机，在机翼下携带着重达500磅（约合230公斤）的激光制导导弹滑行着准备起飞，这里的场景恐怕有些像是拥挤的郊区停车场。在这些高性能喷气飞机和涡轮螺旋桨飞机周围，哪怕是最轻微的过失，都会带来致命的后果。航母甲板上方有一行黄色的大字，写道，“小心喷射气流、螺旋桨和旋翼”，以免有人不慎忘记。
It is a dangerous business, even when the ship is not at war. In September, while training in the western Pacific, two F/A-18s from the Vinson collided in midair soon after takeoff. One pilot was rescued in the accident, but the other was killed. His body was never found in waters nearly three miles deep.
即便航空母舰不处于战争状态，这也是一项危险的工作。今年9月，在西太平洋进行训练期间，两架F/A-18战机从卡尔文森号航母上起飞后不久就在空中相撞。一名飞行员获救，另一名遇难。事发海域有大约三英里（约合4.8公里）深，救援人员没能找到遇难飞行员的遗体。
About 20 percent of the 100 daily flights are strike missions into Iraq and Syria. The others are a mix of training, supply, reconnaissance and other flights, usually between 10:30 a.m. and 11 p.m.
每天会有100个飞行任务，其中20%是针对伊拉克及叙利亚的空袭任务。其他的则包括训练、补给、侦察任务，任务执行时间通常是在上午10点半至晚间11点。
About an hour before takeoff, fighter pilots in flight suits stride to their planes for a final inspection. Tiny black bombs are stenciled below the cockpit for each weapon dropped from that aircraft. A giant steam-powered catapult then hurls the jets off the ship, from a dead start to more than 125 miles an hour in less than three seconds.
在起飞前大约一小时，身穿飞行服的战斗机飞行员会大步走向飞机，进行最后的检查。驾驶舱下方印有小型黑色炸弹图案，代表着飞机投下的每一个武器。然后大型蒸汽弹射器推动飞机从航母起飞，使飞机在不到三秒的时间里，速度从零达到每小时逾125英里。
By then, the pilots have studied their routes, the weather and the targets assigned by an American air command center in Qatar, a tiny gulf state. Targeting specialists have selected bombs big enough to do the job but mindful of the risk to civilians.
那时候，飞行员已经研究过飞行路线、天气，以及设在海湾小国卡塔尔的美国空中指挥中心指定的目标。至此，目标锁定专家已经选择了几个威力足以完成轰炸工作的炸弹，与此同时，也会考虑到炸弹给平民造成的危险。
The allied jets are operating under some of the strictest rules intended to prevent civilian casualties in modern warfare. “If there’s any doubt, we do not drop ordnance,” said Capt. Matt Leahey, a 44-year-old Naval Academy graduate from Lewiston, Me., who commands the 2,100 personnel and 63 aircraft in the carrier’s air wing.
盟军飞机按照极其严格的规定进行操作，这些规定旨在避免现代战争中出现平民伤亡的情况。44岁的马特·利希上校(Matt Leahey)说，“如果存在疑问，我们不会投掷武器。”来自缅因州刘易斯顿的利希毕业于海军士官学校(Naval Academy)，目前掌管该航母空中部队的2100名人员及63架飞机。
The Vinson has steamed to the northern part of the gulf to shorten flight times as much as possible, but it is still 450 miles to Baghdad and much farther to Syria. The F/A-18s burn 5,700 gallons of fuel on a typical mission, and pilots must refuel in midair three or four times.
卡尔文森号航母已经驶至海湾北部，以尽可能地缩短飞行时间，但这里距离巴格达仍有450英里，距离叙利亚则更远。F/A-18战机执行一次任务通常会耗费5700加仑（约合2.6万升）燃料，飞行员必须在空中加油三或四次。
The jets fly well above 20,000 feet, out of the range of most antiaircraft guns. ISIS has surface-to-air missiles and has downed a few Iraqi helicopters, so pilots cannot fly as low as they would like to get the best look at their targets. “Manpads are a real threat,” said Commander Doyle, referring to Man-Portable Air Defense Systems.
飞机在2万英尺（约合6100米）以上的高空飞行，超出了大多数高射炮的攻击范围。ISIS有地对空导弹，并击落了几架伊拉克直升机，因此飞行员不能为了更好地观察目标而在较低高度飞行。杜瓦勒中校表示，“单兵便携式防空系统构成了真正的威胁。”
In some cases, pilots are striking specific, planned targets such as headquarters buildings. But most of the Vinson’s missions are targets of opportunity while safeguarding Iraqi troops below.
在一些任务中，飞行员打击的是计划中的明确目标，比如总部大楼。但卡尔文森号航母的大部分任务都是在保护伊拉克地面部队的同时攻击随机目标。
Pilots fly over designated grid areas, typically 60 miles square, searching for fighters, artillery and other signs of the enemy. An aerial armada of surveillance planes with names like Joint Stars and Rivet Joint track militant movements on the ground and intercept their electronic communications, feeding a steady stream of information to pilots.
飞行员会飞越指定的方格区域，每个通常有60平方英里（约合155平方公里），搜寻作战人员、大炮及敌人的其他迹象。由联合星(Joint Stars)和联合铆钉(Rivet Joint)等预警机与侦察机组成的庞大空中编队追踪武装分子在地面的行动轨迹，拦截他们的电子通讯，为飞行员提供一系列信息。
“It can be pretty boring, then all of sudden it gets heated and you’ve got a whole lot of work to do in 120 seconds,” said Commander Doyle, who has flown eight strike missions so far. “We’re trying to find things and kill them.”
“有时会相当无聊，但突然间会紧张起来，需要在120秒的时间里完成很多工作，”杜瓦勒中校说。“我们在努力寻找目标，并杀死他们。”到目前为止，杜瓦勒已经执行了八次空袭任务。