BEIJING — Audience members using cellphones bedevil performers and presenters around the world. But in China, theaters and other venues have adopted what they say is an effective — others might say disturbing — solution.
北京——使用手机的观众令世界各地的表演者和发言者感到苦恼。但在中国，剧场及其他场所采用了他们所说的有效——但可能会让某些人感到不快的——解决办法。
Zap them with a laser beam.
用激光笔射他们。
The approach varies, but the idea is the same. During a performance, ushers equipped with laser pointers are stationed above, or on the perimeter of, the audience. When they spot a lighted mobile phone, instead of dashing over to the offender, they pounce with a pointer (usually red or green), aiming it at the glowing screen until the user desists.
方法各有不同，但想法是一样的。演出期间，配有激光笔的工作人员站在观众席高处或者周边。发现有人打开手机时，他们不会冲到使用者面前，而是利用激光笔（通常是红色或绿色）照射发亮的屏幕，直到使用者收起手机。
Call it laser shaming.
可以把这种方法叫做“激光羞辱”。
“It’s usually only a small fraction of the audience that we have to deal with,” said Wang Chen, an employee in the theater affairs department at the Shanghai Grand Theater. “They can’t help themselves. So we try to give them a gentle reminder, so they know what they’re doing.”
“通常只有少数观众这么做，”上海大剧院场务部员工王晨说。“他们忍不住玩手机。所以我们会委婉地提醒一下，他们就知道自己在做什么了。”
Xu Chun, 27, who was in the audience for “Carmen” at the National Center for the Performing Arts in Beijing last month, said: “Of course it’s distracting. But seeing lighted-up screens is even more distracting.”
27岁的徐春（音）上个月在北京国家大剧院观看了《卡门》(Carmen)，她表示，“这当然容易让人分心。但那些被照射的屏幕更让人分心。”
For the uninitiated, the appearance of a blazing colored beam in a darkened theater can be jarring.
对于不了解情况的人来说，漆黑的剧场出现强烈的光束可能会很刺眼。
“I remember the first time I saw the lasers, it was shocking to see that little red dot in the middle of a performance,” said Joanna C. Lee, a consultant for American symphony orchestras touring China. “Like someone was pointing a gun at the audience.”
“我记得第一次看到激光点的情景，当时在表演中途看到小红点，感到非常震惊，”美国交响乐团中国巡演顾问李正欣(Joanna C. Lee)说。“就像有人拿枪指着观众。”
Indeed, the narrow shaft of bright light can connote danger. Laser sights are a popular feature on firearms, and there have been numerous incidents in which lasers aimed at cockpits have impaired pilots’ ability to fly safely. (There are more benign uses for a laser pointer, of course, like making presentations and playing with cats.)
一道亮光的确可能意味着危险。激光瞄准器是一种常见的枪械部件，而且发生过许多激光指向飞机驾驶舱导致飞行员安全飞行能力受损的事故。（当然，激光笔有很多有益的用途，比如做演示，逗猫玩。）
But laser pointers have been used for years as disciplinary devices at many of China’s leading performance halls, including the National Center, the Shanghai Oriental Art Center and the Shanghai Grand Theater.
但多年来，激光笔在中国主要的演出场所被当作执行纪律的设备，包括国家大剧院、上海东方艺术中心和上海大剧院。
This may be a response to a particularly acute problem here. Audience numbers have surged in recent years, along with the number of new performance spaces. And theatergoers are often noticeably younger than in the United States and Europe, with a corresponding lack of experience with Western-style concert etiquette. The lasers, theater managers say, are part of a larger effort to teach audiences how to behave during live performances.
或许是因为中国存在一个格外严重的问题。近几年来观众人数激增，新的表演场地也越来越多。中国的剧场观众通常比美国和欧洲的观众年轻，他们相应地缺少有关西式剧场礼仪的经验。剧场经理表示他们在采取许多行动，告诉观众在现场演出期间怎样的行为是恰当的，激光笔就是其中之一。
Are the performers bothered by the use of lasers?
演出者会受到激光笔的干扰吗？
“No, it’s very smart, very fast, very effective,” Giuseppina Piunti, an Italian mezzo soprano, said backstage last month after singing the title role in “Carmen” at the National Center. “They should use the lasers all over the world. I can see the lasers from the stage, but it’s much less distracting than the flash cameras, and the ushers running up and down the aisles.”
“不会，这非常灵敏、迅速、有效，”意大利女中音朱塞平娜·皮温蒂(Giuseppina Piunti)上个月在国家大剧院演完《卡门》后在后台说。“全世界都应该使用激光笔。我在舞台上能看到激光点，但这比相机闪光灯和跑上跑下的工作人员好多了。”
The key, said Yang Hongjie, deputy director of the theater affairs department at the National Center, is to make ample use of the pointers early in a performance so that offenders (as well as nearby patrons) know what to expect should they dare to sneak a photo.
国家大剧院场务部副部长杨洪杰表示，关键在于在演出初期充分利用激光笔，让不遵守规定的人（以及附近的观众）知道，如果他们偷拍照片会有什么后果。
It helps matters that many big-name venues employ cellphone-jamming technology, so texting and ringtones are rarely problems. The use of such technology is illegal in the United States, except by authorized federal law enforcement.
很多知名场所在使用的手机屏蔽技术会有所帮助，发信息和铃声已经不太构成问题。使用此类技术在美国属于违法行为，除非是得到授权的联邦执法行动。
“In the beginning, it was really bad,” Mr. Yang said of the National Center, which opened in 2007. “People would talk on the phone and take photos all the time during performances.” But he and his colleagues found that sending ushers individually to stop patrons was not only distracting for other spectators but also a problem if the offender was sitting in the middle of a row. So in 2008, the center began training ushers to use lasers.
“起初，情况真的非常糟糕，”杨洪杰提到2007年启用的国家大剧院时说。“人们会在演出期间不停打电话、拍照片。但他和同事们发现派工作人员逐一阻止不仅会干扰其他观众，如果不遵守规定的人坐在中间位置，还会引起问题。因此，国家大剧院从2008年开始训练工作人员使用激光笔。
“It’s gotten better and better over the years,” he said. “We have much less interaction with the audience now, compared to before.”
“这么多年来情况越来越好，”他说。“跟之前相比，我们现在与观众的那种互动要少得多了。”
In the United States, the use of laser pointers is highly regulated. In China, although performing arts associations have issued guidelines, the devices are largely unregulated. It is not uncommon, while walking in Sanlitun, the popular shopping and night-life district in Beijing, to be temporarily blinded by a flash of green light from one of the laser pointers for sale by sidewalk peddlers.
在美国，激光笔的使用受到高度管制。在中国，虽然表演艺术协会发布了指导准则，但这些设备基本上不受监管。走在三里屯——北京的购物区和夜生活区，被街头商贩的激光笔发出的绿光照得瞬间失明的情况并不少见。
“It’s really only a risk if they hit the eye,” Samuel M. Goldwasser, a laser expert and former professor of electrical engineering at the University of Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview.
激光专家、前宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)电气工程教授塞缪尔·M·戈德瓦塞尔(Samuel M. Goldwasser)接受电话采访时说，“只有在照射到眼睛时才会有危险。”
That is why, Mr. Yang said, ushers are specifically trained to aim at patrons from behind, in order to avoid the eyes.
杨洪杰表示，这就是为什么工作人员要接受专门训练，从背后照射观众，避免照到眼睛。
But when their aim is off, the consequences can be unfortunate.
但一旦偏离目标，可能会出现不幸的后果。
Alison Friedman, director of Ping Pong Productions, a Beijing-based cultural exchange company, recalled being horrified to see laser beams unwittingly shined on the members of the TAO Dance Theater, a Beijing troupe, during a performance at the China Shanghai International Arts Festival last year.
北京文化交流公司乒乓计划总裁方美昂女士(Alison Friedman)回忆起去年在中国上海国际艺术节观看表演期间，看到激光点无意间照到北京陶身体剧场(TAO Dance Theater)成员身上时，她感到非常震惊。
“It’s one thing if it’s a CCTV-style song-and-dance extravaganza with Las Vegas lights and flashing colors,” Ms. Friedman said, referring to China Central Television, the leading state broadcaster. “But if it’s TAO Dance Theater, which is known for being stark, minimalist and clean, then to have red and green lasers accidentally bouncing onto that black-and-white stage is really disruptive.”
“如果是打着花哨的拉斯维加斯灯光的CCTV式歌舞盛宴，那也就罢了，”方美昂说。“但在以鲜明、简约、干净而著称的陶身体剧场演出期间，黑白色舞台上突然出现红绿色激光点，那真的是具有破坏性。”
There have also been complaints when the lasers are used too much during a performance, as at a concert in Beijing in January featuring the celebrated Chinese pianist Lang Lang. There were so many people trying to sneak a photo of him that at times it seemed as if a laser show had been organized to accompany Mr. Lang’s tender rendition of Tchaikovsky’s “The Seasons.”
演出期间频繁使用激光笔也会引发抱怨，比如今年1月中国知名钢琴演奏家郎朗在北京一个音乐厅演出期间，就出现了这种情况。当时很多人试图偷拍照片，伴随着郎朗温柔演奏的柴科夫斯基(Tchaikovsky)《四季》(The Seasons)，现场一度几乎成了一场激光秀。
As a result, some troupes, like the Royal Shakespeare Company during its China tour last month, have asked performance halls to refrain from using the devices during their appearances.
结果，一些剧团要求演出场所在演出期间禁止使用激光笔，比如皇家莎士比亚剧团(Royal Shakespeare Company)上个月在中国巡演期间就提出了这种要求。
Yet theater managers here say the lasers are the best solution they have found to a nagging problem. Many say such “uncivilized behavior” will stop only when people improve their suzhi, a Chinese term meaning quality or refinement.
但中国的剧场经理表示，他们发现激光笔是解决这个令人烦恼的问题的最佳办法。很多人称，只有当人们提高素质时，这种“不文明行为”才会停止。
“Hopefully, one day we won’t even need to take the laser pointers out of our pockets,” said Mr. Wang of the Shanghai Grand Theater. “That would be a good day.”
“希望有一天，我们不再需要从口袋中掏出激光笔，”上海大剧院的王晨说，“那会是美好的一天。”