While you can talk about Ukraine until the cows come home, this story is 95 percent about Vladimir Putin and how he has chosen to define Russia’s interests. The truth is, Russia and its neighbors need a different definition of Russia’s interests. That, however, raises a series of questions: Can Moscow ever define its interests differently under Putin? If not, how do we deter him without also weakening Russia to the point of instability? And if we do induce such instability over time with sanctions, do we know what comes next and will we be better off?
你大可以对乌克兰局势长篇大论、说个不休，但这个故事的95%涉及的是普京，以及他选择如何定义“俄罗斯利益”。事实是，俄罗斯及其邻国需要对“俄罗斯利益”给出不同的定义。但是这提出了一系列问题：在普京掌权的日子里，莫斯科到底能不能以不同的方式定义自身的利益？如果不能，我们该如何阻止普京的举动，同时又不会破坏俄罗斯的稳定呢？如果随着时间的推移，我们的制裁确实导致了动荡，那么我们知道接下来会发生什么情况，确信那样对我们更好吗？
I think America and the European Union have done exactly the right thing in ratcheting up sanctions on Putin, to try to stop him from destabilizing Ukraine further and preventing the presidential elections there on May 25 from producing a legitimate government. But we’d also better be ready for the consequences of success.
我认为，为了防止普京进一步破坏乌克兰稳定，进而阻扰该国5月25日的总统选举产生一个合法政府，美国和欧盟加大了对普京的制裁力度，这是正确的举动。但是，对于成功制裁普京的后果，我们最好也要做些准备。
When we lived in a world of walls — during the Cold War era — weakening Russia was a strategy that seemed to have only upsides. But in a world of webs, a world that is not only more interconnected but interdependent, the steps we take to make Russia weaker can also come back to haunt us. When the world gets this tightly interwoven, not only can your friends kill you as quickly as your rivals, but your rivals crumbling can be as dangerous as your rivals rising.
在冷战时期，我们生活的世界被围墙隔开，削弱俄罗斯似乎是一个有百利而无一害的战略。但在这个网络化的时代，世界相互关联，而且相互依存的程度已经大大加深，削弱俄罗斯的做法回过头来可能会困扰我们。当世界如此紧密地交织在一起，朋友可以像敌人那样迅速要了你的命，而对手的崩溃可能会像它的崛起一样危险。
Russia still has thousands of nuclear warheads that need to be controlled, and hundreds of nuclear bomb-designers. We need Russia’s help to control mafia crime, drug trafficking and cybercrime. And we need a stable Russia to serve as a counterbalance to China, to be a global energy supplier and to provide a social safety net for all its elderly.
俄罗斯仍然有数以千计的核弹需要控制，还有数以百计的核弹设计师。我们需要俄罗斯的帮助来打击黑帮犯罪、贩毒和网络犯罪。我们需要一个稳定的俄罗斯来制衡中国，来充当全球性的能源供应商，并为所有的俄罗斯老人提供社会保障。
The sanctions thus far will not cripple Russia, but, over time, they will sap its strength, and, if widened, will really hurt. Will Putin change? Today’s globalization doesn’t mean leaders won’t do crazy, aggressive or nationalistic things that rattle markets and seemingly defy their economic interests. Putin has already confirmed that. But it does mean that whatever price an autocrat is willing to pay for such behavior will almost always be bigger, and come faster, than anticipated.
目前实施的制裁不会削弱俄罗斯，但是，随着时间的推移，它们会令俄罗斯元气受损，而如果制裁范围扩大，的确能对俄罗斯造成真正的伤害。普京是否会改弦更张？今天的全球化并不意味着领导人不会做出一些有攻击性、民族主义的疯狂举动，尽管这样的举动会惊扰市场，而且似乎违背本国的经济利益。普京的举动已经证明了这一点。但全球化的确意味着，无论专制者愿意为这样的行为付出多大的代价，这种代价几乎总是会比预期的更高昂、而且来得更快。
Look how just our limited sanctions triggered a stampede by the electronic herd of global investors who have pulled more than $50 billion out of Russia this year. Standard & Poor’s just cut Russia’s rating to one notch above junk status, raising its borrowing costs. The same day, Russia’s central bank boosted a crucial interest rate from 7 percent to 7.5 percent to try to stave off a run on the ruble. Russia’s currency has lost nearly 8 percent against the dollar this year, while its stock market is off 13 percent.
看看吧，我们仅仅实施了有限的制裁，就促使全球投资者竞相逃离，他们今年已经从俄罗斯撤走了500亿美元的资金。标准普尔(Standard & Poor’s)刚刚下调了俄罗斯的评级，现在只比垃圾级高一个档位，导致其借贷成本升高。同一天，俄罗斯央行把一项关键利率从7%上调至7.5%，试图让卢布免受冲击。俄罗斯卢布兑美元的汇率今年已经下跌了8%，而俄罗斯股市跌幅已达13%。
Bloomberg News reported last week that: “Russia scrapped bond sales for the seventh time in eight weeks as investors demanded higher yields.” That is why S.& P. added that continued regional tensions could “further undermine already weakening growth prospects.”
彭博新闻(Bloomberg News)上周报道：“由于投资者要求获得更高的收益率，俄罗斯在八周内第七次取消发债计划。”标准普尔因此表示，持续紧张的地区局势可能“让已然虚弱的经济增长前景雪上加霜”。
I take no joy in seeing Russia put under economic stress, and we should be ready to consider its legitimate interests in terms of protecting its borders. But the problem today is how President Putin defines those interests. It’s bogus. After all, what is Ukraine trying to do? Host U.S. nuclear missiles? No. Join NATO? No. It isn’t even trying to become a full member of the E.U. It wants to sign an “Association Agreement” that would provide Ukrainian companies more unfettered access to European markets and require them to abide by E.U. regulations, which Ukrainian reformers believe would help drive more rule of law inside their own country and make it more globally competitive. The Ukrainians want to import E.U. rules, not NATO missiles!
我看到俄罗斯承受的经济压力并不喜悦。而且，我们也要愿意考虑俄罗斯对于保护其边境的合法利益。但如今的问题是，普京总统是如何定义这些利益的——他在胡说八道。说到底，乌克兰想要做的是什么？允许美国部署核导弹吗？不是。加入北约吗？不是。它甚至都没有寻求成为欧盟的正式成员。它想签署一份“联系国协定”(Association Agreement)，该协定将向乌克兰企业提供进入欧洲市场的更宽松的准入，而且也要求它们遵守欧盟的规章。乌克兰改革派认为，这有助于在国内增进法治，使乌克兰在全球更有竞争力。乌克兰人想要引入的是欧洲的规则，而不是北约的导弹！
It’s actually what Putin should be trying to do for his country, rather than trying to prevent his neighbors from associating with Europe. But Putin is focused on building the power of his state, not the prosperity of his people. And he wants total political control and the right for him and his clique to steal vast sums, while seeking out foreign devils to distract the Russian public. These are not geopolitical interests that we have to respect.
事实上，普京也应该为俄罗斯做这些事，而不是努力阻止邻国与欧洲结盟。而普京只关心增进国力，而不增进民众的福祉。他想要政治上的全盘控制，让自己和自己的小集团有权窃取大量的财富，同时找到其他国家作恶的借口，分散俄罗斯公众的注意力。这些都不是我们需要尊重的地缘政治利益。
Ukraine is not threatening Russia, but Ukraine’s revolution is threatening Putin. The main goal of the Ukraine uprising is to import a rules-based system from the E.U. that will break the kleptocracy that has dominated Kiev — the same kind of kleptocracy Putin wants to maintain in Moscow. Putin doesn’t care if Germans live by E.U. rules, but when fellow Slavs, like Ukrainians, want to — that is a threat to him at home.
乌克兰并没有威胁到俄罗斯，但乌克兰的革命威胁到了普京。乌克兰示威的主要诉求是从欧盟引进一套基于规则的制度，这将打破掌控基辅的盗贼统治——后者与普京想要在莫斯科维持的那种盗贼统治相似。普京不在乎德国是否遵守欧盟的规则，但当其他斯拉夫国家，比如乌克兰，想要遵守欧盟的规则时，就会在国内对他构成威胁。
Don’t let anyone tell you the sanctions are meaningless and the only way to influence Russia is by moving tanks. (Putin would love that. It would force every Russian to rally to him.) If anything, we should worry that over time our sanctions will work too well. And don’t let anyone tell you that we’re challenging Russia’s “space.” We’re not. The real issue here is that Ukrainians, as individuals and collectively, are challenging Putin’s “values.”
不要相信有些人说的，制裁没有用，要想对俄罗斯施加影响只能动用坦克。（这正符合普京的心意，将迫使所有俄罗斯民众向他靠拢。）正相反，我们应该担心，一段时间以后，我们制裁的效果会过于明显。不要相信有些人说的，我们正在挑战俄罗斯的“空间”。我们没有。真正的问题是，乌克兰人，无论是作为个人还是作为整体，正在挑战普京的“价值观”。
We couldn’t stop them if we wanted to. They’ve been empowered by globalization and the I.T. revolution. Get used to it, Comrade Putin.
即使我们想要阻止他们，我们也做不到。全球化和信息技术革命已经让他们强大起来。接受这一点吧，普京同志。