MOSCOW — Russia, facing the toughest round of Western sanctions imposed since the Ukraine crisis erupted, has adopted a nonchalant public stance, with President Vladimir V. Putin emphasizing the importance of self-reliance and a new poll released Tuesday indicating a “What, me worry?” attitude among the bulk of the population.
莫斯科——面对乌克兰危机爆发以来，西方采取的最严厉的一轮制裁，俄罗斯做出了一副淡然处之的公开姿态。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)强调了自力更生的重要性，周二公布的一项新民调数据显示，大多数民众都持“我担心什么？”的态度。
But beneath that calm facade, there is growing alarm in Russia that the festering turmoil in Ukraine and the new round of far more punitive sanctions — announced Tuesday by both European nations and the United States — will have an impact on Russia’s relations with the West for years to come and damage the economy to the extent that ordinary Russians feel it.
然而在平静的外表之下，俄罗斯也越发警觉——乌克兰不断恶化的乱局，以及欧洲国家和美国分别在周二宣布的新一轮严重得多的制裁，可能会在未来很多年里，对俄罗斯与西方的关系造成冲击，并且会对俄罗斯经济造成普通民众可以感受到的损害。
Until now, Mr. Putin’s tactics seemed to be working. Russia was feeding the separatist insurgency in Ukraine without leaving distinct fingerprints — able to press Kiev to come to terms while avoiding a rupture with Europe that would alienate Russia’s business elite. But that strategy is beginning to crumble, battered under successive shock waves generated by the crisis.
直到现在，普京的策略似乎还能奏效。俄罗斯向乌克兰的分裂武装给予支持，但有没有留下明确的证据；能够迫使基辅就范，进而避免与欧洲关系破裂，于是疏远俄罗斯的商界精英。但是由于危机产生的一连串冲击波，这种策略正在开始崩塌。
More frequent and prominent critics are saying that Mr. Putin and the hard-line leaders in the Kremlin overreached by suggesting that Russia, far more dependent than the old Soviet Union on international trade and financial markets, could thrive without the West.
一些频频发声而且较为著名的批评人士纷纷表示，普京以及克里姆林宫的强硬派领导人，在提到俄罗斯离开西方也能繁荣时，恐怕是不自量力。今天俄罗斯对国际贸易和金融市场的依赖，远超以前的苏联。
“They were not anticipating the West to make radical moves, costly moves,” said Nikolai Petrov, an independent political analyst. “What is happening is different from what they wanted and what they expected.”
“他们没有料到西方会做出极端的动作、代价高昂的动作，”独立政治分析人士尼古拉·彼得罗夫(Nikolai Petrov)表示，“现在发生的事情，与他们想要的局面、他们意料之中的局面是不一样的。”
He and others pointed to the downing of the Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 over embattled southeastern Ukraine on July 17 as upsetting the balancing act that Mr. Putin had managed to pull off to maintain support from the public, hard-line nationalists, the security services, the oligarchs and the more liberal business community.
彼得罗夫及其他人认为，7月17日马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的波音777客机，在局势动荡的乌克兰东南部上空坠毁的事件，打破了普京侥幸维系的利益平衡。之前他一直维持着公众、强硬派民族主义者、安全部门、寡头，以及比较倾向于自由派的商业群体的支持。
“Until this catastrophe, Putin’s calculations were pretty good in terms of being able to win any tactical battle,” Mr. Petrov said.
“直到发生这场灾难，普京的算计都很管用，能够赢得任何一场战术上的较量，”彼得罗夫说。
The Kremlin had been counting on its ability to maintain just enough instability in Ukraine to keep the country dependent on Russian good will, while making Europe and the United States cautious about intervening too assertively there.
克里姆林宫一直认为，自己有能力在乌克兰维持程度刚刚好的不稳定局面，从而一方面让乌克兰仰赖俄罗斯的好意，另一方面让欧洲和美国小心谨慎，不要过于积极地介入。
Right after this weekend, when the likelihood of more serious European sanctions materialized, Mr. Putin met with advisers to say that Russia needed to become self-reliant. He was referring to arms production previously done in Ukraine, but the sentiment echoed in other fields.
上周末，欧洲采取更严厉制裁的可能性大幅提高。紧接着，普京就与幕僚举行会晤，表示俄罗斯需要更多地依赖自己。他指的是过去在乌克兰进行的武器生产，但这种情绪却在其他领域引发了反响。
“No matter what the difficulties we may encounter, and to be honest, I do not really see any big difficulties so far,” he said, according to a transcript on the Kremlin website, “I think that they will ultimately work to our advantage because they will give us the needed incentive to develop our production capability in areas where we had not done so yet.”
“无论我们遇到怎样的困难，老实说，目前我并没有看到什么大的困难，”在克里姆林宫网站上发布的一份会议纪要中普京说。“我想最终都能做到对我们有利，因为它能为我们提供必要的动力，在我们还没有尝试过的领域，开发自己的产能。”
Domestically, grumbling over the creeping isolationism has grown louder. Roughly 50 percent of the economy is state-run, and the loyalty of those who direct such companies to Mr. Putin remains absolute. But the rest are changing.
在俄罗斯国内，不断滋长的孤立主义也在引发越来越强烈的抱怨。俄罗斯经济中约有50%由国有企业把持，而这些企业的经营者对普京仍然绝对忠诚。但其他人的态度正在改变。
“It is still a very polite version: ‘Maybe something is going wrong,’ ” said Sergei Petrov, an opposition member of Parliament and the founder of Rolf, one of the biggest car importers in Russia. “They would never say it to you, a foreigner, but I hear more and more critics.”
“这还是一个很客气的版本：‘可能有些地方不太对劲，’”反对派议员谢尔盖·佩特罗夫(Sergei Petrov)说。“你一个外国人，他们肯定不会跟你说的，但是我听到的批评声越来越多了。”佩特罗夫是俄罗斯最大的汽车进口商之一罗尔夫公司(Rolf)的创始人。
A former finance minister and a close Putin ally, Alexei Kudrin, voiced rare public criticism of Kremlin policy in an interview last week with the state-run news agency ITAR-TASS.
前财政部长、普京的亲密盟友阿里克谢·库德林(Alexei Kudrin)在上周接受国有新闻社俄通社-塔斯社(ITAR-TASS)采访时，罕见地对克里姆林宫的政策发起了公开的批评。
Mr. Kudrin said he was worried that the Ukraine crisis would drive Russia into a “historic confrontation” that would retard the country’s development across the board.
库德林说他担心乌克兰危机将把俄罗斯卷入一场“历史性的冲突”，令国家发展全面受阻。
The business community was dismayed by the amount of anti-Western comments on television and radio, he said, indicating a “fundamental” shift that made the West Russia’s adversary again.
他说商界对电视、电台上的反西方言论泛滥感到惊愕，这表明存在一种“根本上的”转变，将西方重新变成俄罗斯的敌人。
“Things are different in business,” he said. “Businessmen want to work, to invest, build factories and develop trade.”
“在商界的情况不一样，”他说，“商人想做事，想投资，盖工厂，发展贸易。”
Some analysts saw that interview as a sign that Mr. Putin was looking for a way out, preparing to abandon the Ukraine separatists publicly. They linked it to a similar sentiment in a column in the newspaper Kommersant on Tuesday, by a journalist close to the president, suggesting that he had allowed the black boxes from the Malaysian airliner to be sent to the West because he did not fully trust the information he got from his advisers.
有分析人士认为，这次采访说明普京正在试图摆脱困境，准备公开地抛弃乌克兰的分裂分子。他们将它和周二《生意人报》(Kommersant)的一篇专栏文章联系起来，称两者有着相似的观点，该文作者是一名和总统过从甚密的记者，文章暗示是普京放手将马航的黑匣子给了西方，因为他并不完全信任从顾问那里得来的信息。
But there has been no direct indication from Mr. Putin that he wants to change tacks.
但是普京本人对策略的转变并没有任何直接的表示。
Beyond sanctions, an arbitration court in The Hague ruled Monday that Russia should pay former Yukos shareholders $50 billion for breaking up the oil and gas company decade ago. The ruling added an element of uncertainly to dealing with Gazprom and Rosneft, the two state-controlled giants of the Russian energy economy that absorbed Yukos holdings.
除了制裁之外，海牙的一家仲裁庭周一做出裁决，俄罗斯应该向尤科斯石油公司(Yukos)的前股东支付500亿美元，作为对拆分这家石油天然气公司的赔偿。这一裁决导致在和俄罗斯天然气股份工业公司(Gazprom)、俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)打交道时多了一层不确定因素，这两家俄罗斯国有的能源业巨头都吸收了尤科斯的资产。
Economic issues are likely to broaden the split between the more liberal economists and the conservative members of the security services, analysts said. Mr. Putin makes all the crucial decisions, however, and no one is likely to challenge him directly.
分析人士称，偏自由派的经济学家和安全部门的保守派人士之间的分歧，可能因经济问题而进一步加剧。然而所有关键性决策都是由普京拍板的，不太可能有人对他发起正面挑战。
“There is a split, but the antiwar party lacks the instruments to force Putin into practical action,” said Vladimir Milov, a former deputy energy minister turned opposition politician.
前能源部副部长、后来转向反对派阵营的政治人士弗拉基米尔·米洛夫(Vladimir Milov)说，“分歧是存在的，但是反战的一方缺乏足够的手段，迫使普京采取务实的行动。”
Kremlin officials seeking to break with the West believe that whatever financing they lose there, they can regain from China or India, Mr. Milov said, without realizing that neither banking system is geared to provide the billions in long-term credit that Russian companies routinely got from Western banks.
米洛夫说，那些要和西方决裂的克里姆林宫官员相信，不管在西方有多少融资上的损失，都可以到中国或印度去弥补，但他们没意识到，这两个国家的银行系统都没有做好准备，能像西方银行那样提供数以十亿计的长期贷款。