LONDON — The downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over eastern Ukraine — and the tougher round of sanctions against Russia that followed — is prompting some big multinational energy companies to take a fresh look at the ramifications of the crisis.
伦敦——由于马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班在乌克兰东部坠毁，而且俄罗斯随后遭受了更严厉的制裁，一些大型跨国能源公司正在重新审视这场危机造成的后果。
For months, American and European energy players have continued to sign deals with Russia, maintaining a posture that business was proceeding as usual. But top industry executives are now starting to acknowledge that the escalating tensions could sharply hurt Western oil and gas giants with major investments in Russia, as well as the service companies that are key technology suppliers.
数月以来，美国和欧洲的能源公司仍在与俄罗斯签署协议，维持着生意照旧的表象。但业内顶级高管现在开始承认，不断升级的紧张局势可能会重创在俄罗斯拥有大量投资的西方油气巨头，以及作为重要技术供应商的服务企业。
“We are in the heat of a very emotional stage,” Robert W. Dudley, BP’s chief executive, told reporters on Tuesday. The company warned that further economic sanctions could harm BP’s income, production and reputation.
BP首席执行官罗伯特·W·杜德利(Robert W. Dudley)周二告诉记者，“我们正处在一个心绪难平的时期。”该公司称，进一步经济制裁可能会对BP的收入、产量和声誉造成负面影响。
France’s oil giant, Total, which had been among the most committed to Russia, said that since the plane disaster it had stopped regularly adding to its stake in its Russian partner Novatek, a gas producer that was placed under sanctions by the United States this month. Total’s chief financial officer, Patrick de La Chevardière, also indicated on Wednesday that the company was considering how the sanctions might affect other projects like a multibillion-dollar natural gas facility it is building with Novatek.
法国石油巨头道达尔集团(Total)一直是俄罗斯最忠实的合作伙伴之一。该公司表示，空难发生后，已经停止了定期增持其俄罗斯合作伙伴诺瓦泰克公司(Novatek)股份的做法。后者是一家天然气生产商，本月开始受到美国制裁。道达尔的首席财务官帕特里克·德拉谢瓦迪埃尔(Patrick de La Chevardière)周三还表示，该公司正在考虑这些制裁将对其他项目造成何种影响，包括该公司正在与诺瓦泰克共同建造的一处价值数十亿美元的天然气设施。
The industry’s tenor has changed as Western governments directly target Russia’s economic prospects, notably its energy industry. After months of settling for measures that seemed largely symbolic, the United States and the European Union on Tuesday agreed on a new round of sanctions that appear as if they may have real teeth.
随着西方国家的政府把目标对准俄罗斯的经济前景，尤其是该国能源产业，石油产业的态度已经发生转变。此前几个月，美国和欧盟采取的措施基本上似乎都只有象征意义，周二，它们对新一轮似乎具有真正破坏性的制裁达成了共识。
“The companies are facing the harsh reality that the United States and the European Union have united on sanctions in a way that two weeks ago would have been inconceivable,” said John Lough, a Russia analyst at Chatham House, a London-based research organization.
“这些企业正面临着严峻的现实，那就是美国和欧盟在制裁方面已经联起手来，这在两周之前是难以想象的，”伦敦研究机构皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的俄罗斯问题分析师约翰·洛(John Lough)说。
In a previous round of sanctions, the United States placed some financial restrictions on Russian energy companies like Rosneft and Novatek. The latest sanctions go further, however, as they try to curb the export of highly specialized equipment needed to develop Russia’s new energy frontiers, including the Arctic and shale rock formations in West Siberia.
在此前的一轮制裁中，美国对俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)和诺瓦泰克等俄罗斯能源企业，实施了一些金融方面的限制。然而，最新的一轮制裁更加严厉，出口一些高度专业化的设备时会受到限制。而俄罗斯在全新的区域，比如北冰洋和西西伯利亚的页岩层开采能源时，需要借助这样的设备。
Companies like Total and Royal Dutch Shell have poured money into Russia in recent years. And a drilling rig to be operated by Exxon Mobil and Rosneft is being transported to Russian Arctic waters.
道达尔和荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)等企业，近年来在俄罗斯注入了大量投资。一个计划由埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)和俄油共同运营的钻井平台，正被运往俄罗斯的北冰洋水域。
But Western oil and gas executives, along with their teams of lawyers, are now pondering the impact of the sanctions. It is uncertain what types of equipment or software they may be prohibited from bringing to Russia. “Technology is a very hard thing to define,” said Mr. Dudley of BP. “So we will have to read it very carefully.”
西方油气行业的高管和他们的法务团队，正在考量这些制裁将会产生的影响。目前尚不确定哪类设备或软件可能会被禁止进入俄罗斯。“技术是一个很难界定的东西，”BP的杜德利说，“因此，我们必须非常认真地研究。”
Mr. Dudley also said that it was unclear whether BP would be allowed to proceed with a joint venture on shale oil with Rosneft; the companies reached a preliminary agreement over the deal this year. Exxon Mobil, Shell and Total also have shale ventures in the country.
杜德利还说，目前尚不清楚BP是否可以继续与俄油建立一家页岩油合资企业，这两家公司今年就这笔交易达成了初步协议。埃克森美孚、壳牌和道达尔也在俄罗斯建立了页岩油气企业。
As the companies assess the murky situation, Russia’s energy future remains in limbo.
这些公司正在考量当前混沌不清的局势，与此同时，俄罗斯的能源未来仍然充满不确定性。
Russia rivals Saudi Arabia as the world’s leading oil producer, and it was second in natural gas production last year to the resurgent United States. But Russia’s traditional oil fields in West Siberia, which have sustained the country’s output for decades, are in decline.
沙特阿拉伯目前是世界第一大石油生产国，而俄罗斯一直是这一地位的有力竞争者。去年，俄罗斯的天然气产量位居世界第二，仅次于产量重新提升的美国。俄罗斯在西西伯利亚的旧有油田几十年来一直维持着该国的石油生产，但这些油田的产量已经呈现下降趋势。
To avoid further drops in production, Russia’s industry, which is not yet fully modernized, needs access to the Western technology that has transformed the global oil business in recent decades, allowing oil companies to push into ocean waters more than a mile deep, or produce oil from shale rock. That technology is the main reason Russia has sought help from the global oil majors like Exxon Mobil, which is producing oil off Sakhalin Island in eastern Russia.
为避免产量进一步降低，尚未充分实现现代化的俄罗斯能源产业，需要获取西方的技术。这些技术在最近几十年里让全球石油业实现了转变，使石油公司能够在大洋中深入到水下超过一英里深的位置，以及从页岩中开采石油。这也是俄罗斯向埃克森美孚等全球石油巨头寻求帮助的主要原因。埃克森美孚正在俄罗斯东部的库页岛开采石油。
“If the new sanctions stay in place for an extended period of months or years they will have an impact on Russia’s ability to grow or even maintain oil production,” said Richard Mallinson, an analyst at Energy Aspects, a research firm based in London.
“如果新的制裁持续数月甚至数年，俄罗斯加大甚至维持石油生产的能力都会就会受到影响，”伦敦研究公司Energy Aspects的分析师理查德·马林森(Richard Mallinson)说。
Perhaps Russia’s greatest short-term hope for increasing production is to extract oil from shale rock. Russia is considered to have huge, albeit unproven, potential.
从短期来看，从页岩中开采石油可能是俄罗斯增加产量的最大希望。外界认为，俄罗斯在页岩油气方面有巨大的潜力，不过尚未经证实。
But the latest Western actions target shale gas. Any efforts to make the most of these shale formations would be slowed if the sanctions block service companies like Halliburton from bringing technologies including hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling that have changed the energy industry in the United States.
但西方最新的行动针对的正是页岩气。如果这些制裁禁止哈利伯顿(Halliburton)等公司，向俄罗斯提供水力压裂和水平钻井等改变了美国能源产业的技术，任何最大限度地利用这些页岩层的努力都会受到影响。