LOS ANGELES — Sony Pictures Entertainment, the F.B.I., theater owners and competing film studios scrambled on Tuesday to deal with a threat of terrorism against movie theaters that show Sony’s “The Interview,” a raunchy comedy about the assassination of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.
洛杉矶——周二，索尼电影娱乐公司（Sony Pictures Entertainment，下称索尼影业）、美国联邦调查局(FBI)、影院所有者及其他一些影业公司，都在慌忙应对一条恐怖威胁信息，该威胁针对的是即将放映电影《采访》(The Interview)的影院。《采访》是索尼影业出品的一部通俗喜剧片，讲的是刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的故事。
The threat was made in rambling emails sent to various news outlets Tuesday morning. A version posted by The Hollywood Reporter said, in part: “Remember the 11th of September 2001. We recommend you to keep yourself distant from the places at that time. (If your house is nearby, you’d better leave.)”
这条威胁信息是通过一些杂乱无章的邮件发出的，多家新闻机构周二上午收到了邮件。《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)发布的一个版本的部分内容如下：“别忘了2001年9月11日，建议你们到时候离这些地方远一点。（如果你家在附近，最好出门。）”
The email specifically aimed its threat at “the very times and places” at which “The Interview” is to be first shown. The film is set for release on Christmas Day. A New York premiere is planned for Wednesday night.
这封邮件的威胁目标具体地指向了《采访》首次公映的“时间和地点”。该片定于圣诞节当天公映，并计划于本周三晚间在纽约进行首映。
On Tuesday night, Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema said it had canceled the film’s New York premiere scheduled for this week; its Los Angeles premiere was held Dec. 11 without incident.
周二晚间，里程碑阳光电影院(Landmark's Sunshine Cinema)称其已取消该影片原定于本周举行的首映；该影片12月11日于洛杉矶的首映平安举行。
That email warning turned a continuing attack on Sony by hackers from a matter of theft to one of terrorism. A spokeswoman for the F.B.I. said it “is aware of the threat and is continuing to investigate the attack on Sony.”
这则邮件警告把索尼受到的持续黑客攻击的性质，从信息窃取变成了恐怖主义活动。FBI的一名发言人说，“我们已经了解到这一威胁，目前仍在对索尼受到的攻击进行调查。”
Late Tuesday, a person with knowledge of Sony’s dealings said that the theater chain Carmike Cinemas had canceled its showings of the movie. Carmike could not be reached for comment.
周二晚些时候，一名知悉索尼影业业务的人士说，卡麦克影业(Carmike Cinemas)已取消该片放映。记者无法联络到卡麦克影业置评。
An official with the Department of Homeland Security said the department was analyzing the threat but as yet had found no clear indication of an active plot against theaters. Sony had no comment.
国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的一名官员说，该机构正在分析这条威胁信息，但没有明显迹象显示有人正在实施针对影院的阴谋。索尼则未予置评。
Tuesday’s development posed an ugly dilemma for Sony and exhibitors: whether to pull “The Interview,” caving to hackers who have wreaked havoc with Sony’s digital systems for weeks in an attempt to block the release, or to forge ahead, risking possible violence and potential legal liability. In an already-fragile industry, studio executives privately voiced concern that any theater violence could swing the market further toward home viewing.
周二的消息让索尼和影院老板们陷入了尴尬的两难之境：是停映《采访》，向数周以来为了阻止该片放映而破坏索尼计算机系统的黑客认输，还是坚持放映，冒着可能引发袭击活动并承担法律责任的风险。在这个业已脆弱的行业，影院高管们私下里都曾表达过对影院发生袭击活动可能让市场进一步向家庭影院倾斜的担忧。
Three people briefed on Sony’s internal discussions on Tuesday said the studio had decided to all but invite theater owners to force cancellation or further postponement of “The Interview.” Those people spoke on condition of anonymity. The film had been scheduled for fall release and was delayed; the studio cited the need for further work and a better market position.
三名了解索尼内部讨论的人士周二在匿名条件下透露，该公司已经做出的决定，相当于请求影院强制取消或进一步推迟《采访》的放映。该片原定在秋季上映，后来遭推迟；索尼的解释是，还需要做更多的工作和更好的市场定位。
An executive for one of the theater chains, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, called the invocation of the 9/11 terror attacks by hackers “a game changer.” The executive had last week dismissed the notion that theater owners might shy away from “The Interview” over earlier, more general threats by North Korean officials and pressure from the hackers, who have self-identified as the Guardians of Peace. Nobody yet knows the hackers’ true identity.
一家影院连锁企业的高管也在匿名条件下表示，黑客们援引“9.11”恐怖袭击的行为“改变了事件的性质”。这名高管上周表示，不认为影院会因为朝鲜官员早先比较笼统的威胁信息，和黑客的压力而不去放映《采访》。这些黑客自称是“和平的守护者(Guardians of Peace)”。目前没人知道黑客的真实身份。
Representatives of AMC Entertainment, Regal Entertainment and Cinemark, North America’s three largest theater chains, did not respond to queries. A spokesman for the National Association of Theater Owners, which represents exhibitors, declined to comment.
北美三家最大的影院连锁机构的运营商AMC娱乐(AMC Entertainment)、帝王娱乐集团(Regal Entertainment Group)和喜满客(Cinemark)的代表没有回复记者的提问。美国国家影院业主协会(National Association of Theater Owners)的发言人也拒绝置评。
Pressure to pull the “The Interview,” which stars Seth Rogen and James Franco and is directed by Mr. Rogen and Evan Goldberg, has centered on its depiction of Mr. Kim’s assassination. To depict the killing of a sitting world leader, comically or otherwise, is virtually without precedent in major studio movies, film historians say. Mr. Rogen canceled planned publicity interviews on Tuesday.
《采访》由赛斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)和埃文·戈德堡(Evan Goldberg)执导，主演是罗根和詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)。撤下《采访》的压力源自于片中有关刺杀金正恩的内容。电影历史学者称，刻画对一位现任国家领袖的刺杀行动，无论是以喜剧还是其他方式，都是史无前例的。罗根取消了计划于周二进行的为影片造势的采访活动。
But a broad threat of theater violence, following a sustained attack on Sony’s digital existence, is also without precedent, and opens a new range of worry for Hollywood.
在索尼的网络系统遭到持续攻击后，又发出针对影院实施袭击活动的广泛威胁，这也是史无前例的，它也为好莱坞带去了一系列新的忧虑。