KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The two young women were what South Korean intelligence calls “lizard’s tails,” expendable assets to be cast off after an operation.
马来西亚吉隆坡——这两名女子是韩国情报机构所说的“蜥蜴尾”，即一次行动结束后便可以抛弃的资产。
Guided by North Korean agents, they practiced at malls in Kuala Lumpur, then set their sights on the target: the estranged elder brother of North Korea’s erratic leader, Kim Jong-un.
在朝鲜特工的指引下，她们在吉隆坡的商场里练习，然后瞄准了目标：难以捉摸的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)不相往来的哥哥——金正男(Kim Jong-nam)。
With hands doused with toxic liquid, they rubbed the face of their victim, who was waiting to check in for a flight at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Minutes later, their target died on the way to a hospital. The two women washed their hands and fled.
她们往手里倒上有毒液体，抹到受害人的脸上，后者正在吉隆坡国际机场等待办理登机手续。几分钟后，袭击目标在被送往医院的途中死去。两名女子已经洗净手逃走了。
The suspected assassins were swiftly taken into custody as circumstantial evidence mounted that North Korea was responsible for the attack.
有嫌疑的暗杀者很快遭到拘捕，越来越多的旁证显示朝鲜应为这次袭击负责。
The very public killing of Mr. Kim appears to be another remarkable episode in the annals of bizarre North Korean behavior, a whodunit with geopolitical implications. Speculation swirled that the victim, Kim Jong-nam, had been killed to remove him from the line of succession in North Korea.
金正男公开遇害，是朝鲜奇怪行为年鉴上又一个引人注目的篇章。据传，杀害金正男，是为了将他从朝鲜继承人的行列中去除。
In the days since the killing was caught on video, the drama has had an ever-expanding and multinational cast of characters — assassins from Indonesia and Vietnam, one of whom was apparently wearing a white shirt emblazoned with the letters LOL; a Malaysian boyfriend; and suspected North Korean agents.
自摄像头捕捉到这次谋杀后的几天里，这件戏剧性事件的角色不断增加，跨越多个国家——被控执行袭击的两名杀手来自印度尼西亚和越南，其中一人显然穿着一件有LOL字样的白色上衣；一个马来西亚男友；据信身份是朝鲜特工的人。
On Wednesday, Malaysia’s police chief, Khalid Abu Bakar, said a senior diplomat at the North Korean Embassy and an employee of the North Korean state-owned airline, Air Koryo, were also wanted for questioning. A seventh North Korean, who was not identified, was also being sought. Mr. Khalid also said that extra police officers had been sent to the morgue where Mr. Kim’s body was being kept after an attempt to break into the facility was detected.
周三，马来西亚警察总长卡立德·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)表示，朝鲜大使馆的一名高级外交官和朝鲜国营航空公司高丽航空(Air Koryo)的一名员工也被要求接受审问。警方还在寻找第七个未指明身份的朝鲜人。卡立德还表示，在发现有人企图闯入保存金正男尸体的太平间之后，警方在那里加派了警力。
North Korea has refused to even acknowledge that the dead man was Kim Jong-nam and has accused Malaysia of carrying out a politically motivated investigation to placate South Korea and the United States.
朝鲜甚至拒不承认那名死去的男子就是金正男，还指控马来西亚实施有政治动机的调查，目的是安抚韩国与美国。
North Korea has nonetheless demanded that the body be sent to there and, in a statement on Wednesday, the North Korean Embassy said the two women were innocent and should be freed.
尽管如此，朝鲜还是要求将尸体送至该国。朝鲜大使馆在周三发布的一项声明中表示，这两名女子是无辜的，应该被释放。
If the women really had poison on their hands, the embassy statement said, “then how is it possible that these female suspects could still be alive?”
声明称，如果她们的手上真有毒药，“这两名女性嫌疑人怎么还能活着？”
One possible theory is that each woman used a single chemical that became lethal only when mixed with another. However, Malaysian police said the substance, or substances, used in the attack was still unknown.
其中一种可能的说法是，两名女子各用了一种化学物质，只有将它们混合在一起才具致命性。然而，马来西亚警方表示，目前还不清楚袭击中使用的是什么物质。
North Korea has denied any involvement in the killing, which is likely to anger Beijing, long seen as a protector of Kim Jong-nam. Mr. Kim’s 33-year-old half brother, who has ordered the execution of scores of senior officials, including at least one disfavored relative.
据韩国情报机构透露，金正恩早已将他同父异母的哥哥列入了黑名单。33岁的金正恩曾下令处死几十名高层官员，其中包括至少一名失宠于他的亲戚。
Malaysian authorities say the two women arrested, Doan Thi Huong, 28, and Siti Aisyah, 25, were recruited, trained and equipped by four North Koreans, who have since fled to their home country.
马来西亚当局称，被逮捕的两名女子——28岁的段氏香（Doan Thi Huong，音）和25岁的西蒂·艾莎(Siti Aishah)——是由四名朝鲜人招募、训练和提供装备的。这四人在事件发生后便逃回了朝鲜。
If the attack was a plot by North Korea, it would not be the first time it had tried to kill Kim Jong-nam.
如果这起袭击是朝鲜的一个阴谋，它不会是该国第一次试图谋杀金正男。
In 2010, according to South Korean investigators, a North Korean agent based in China received a special order from Pyongyang: “terminate” Kim Jong-nam and bring his body to the North.
据韩国调查人员透露，一名身居中国的朝鲜特工在2010年曾接到平壤的一条特殊指令：“除掉”金正男，将尸体带回朝鲜。
The agent, Kim Young-soo, was told that Kim Jong-nam was going to travel to China from Singapore, where he was then living. The agent’s boss gave him a bundle of cash and ordered him to bribe a taxi driver to run over Mr. Kim in a fake traffic accident.
这个名为金勇修（Kim Young-soo，音）的特工被告知，金正男将从他当时居住的新加坡前往中国。这名特工的老板给了他一大笔钱，命令他贿赂一名出租车司机，伪造交通事故撞死金正男。
The plot was scrapped when Mr. Kim failed to arrive as planned. But it came to light in 2012, when the agent was caught entering South Korea and confessed under interrogation.
因为金正男没能按计划抵达北京，阴谋没能实现。但它在2012年被曝光，当时这名特工在进入韩国境内时被抓，审问之下供认了这个计划。
Since 2011, when Kim Jong-un succeeded his father as North Korea’s ruler, there has been a standing order to assassinate his half brother, South Korean intelligence officials said last week. There was another assassination attempt against him in 2012.
韩国情报官员上周表示，自金正恩在2011年接替他的父亲成为朝鲜的统治者以来，一直有一项长期有效的命令，即暗杀他同父异母的兄弟。2012年还有过另一次暗杀的尝试。
Mr. Kim was so afraid that he begged for his life in a letter to his half brother in 2012.
金正男非常害怕，在2012年写信给他的弟弟，请求放其一条生路。
“Please withdraw the order to punish me and my family,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying in the letter. “We have nowhere to hide. The only way to escape is to choose suicide.”
“请撤销惩罚我和我家人的命令，”金正男被援引在那封信中如此写道。“我们无处可躲。唯一的出路是选择自杀。”
A Troubled Family
一个不安宁的家族
The Kim family, which has ruled North Korea since its founding in 1948, has presided over a Shakespearean nest of internecine plots and family intrigue, with rival relatives sent into exile and occasional bloody purges to kill off anyone of questionable loyalty and set an example for others.
自1948年建国以来一直统治朝鲜的金氏家族，经历了一系列莎士比亚式的内斗阴谋和家族斗争，对立的亲戚被迫流亡，偶尔还会上演血腥的清洗，以便消灭一切忠心可疑者，以儆效尤。
Kim Jong-nam was an early dropout in the Kim dynasty’s third-generation power struggle. Sidelined from the race to succeed his father since the 1970s, when his mother was abandoned by his father, he had been effectively shut out of power, and shut off from his father, since he was a teenager. South Korean officials say he never met his half brother, Kim Jong-un.
金正男很早就退出了金氏王朝的第三代权力斗争。自从70年代他的母亲被他的父亲抛弃，他就被排除在为接替他父亲而展开的争夺之外。从少年时期开始，他完全处于权力中心以及父亲的生活之外。韩国官员称，他从没见过同父异母的弟弟金正恩。
The final straw for Kim Jong-nam was when he was caught entering Japan on a false Dominican Republic passport in 2001, embarrassing the family. He told Japanese officials that he had wanted to visit Tokyo Disneyland.
压倒金正男的最后一根稻草，是2001年被发现持伪造的多米尼加共和国护照进入日本，令家族难堪。他对日本官员称，他是想去东京迪士尼乐园游玩。
Mr. Kim lived in exile, mostly in Macau, but enjoyed the affluent life of a globe-trotting playboy, sometimes traveling with a female bodyguard. While his father was still alive, the government in Pyongyang sent him cash allowances.
金正男流亡在外，主要是在澳门，但却过着花花公子的富裕生活，满世界游玩，有时候还带着女保镖。在他父亲还在世时，平壤政府给他提供现金补贴。
His uncle, Jang Song-thaek, became a father figure and his main connection to his country. South Korean officials said Mr. Kim was thought to have used that connection to conduct business for himself, like handling contracts involving North Korean minerals.
他的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)成了一个父亲一样的角色，也是他和朝鲜联系的主要渠道。韩国官员认为金正男利用了这个渠道自己做生意，如打理涉及朝鲜矿产的合同。
Mr. Kim often visited Kuala Lumpur, where Mr. Jang’s nephew, Jang Yong-chol, served as North Korean ambassador until 2013.
金正男经常去吉隆坡。张成泽的侄子张永哲(Jang Yong-chol)在那里担任朝鲜大使直到2013年。
Mr. Kim sometimes stayed at an embassy guesthouse and sometimes at five-star hotels, according to Steve Hwang, a restaurant owner who became a friend.
据和金正男成了朋友的餐厅老板史蒂夫·黄(Steve Hwang)说，金正男有时住在大使馆的招待所，有时住在五星级酒店。
Mr. Kim would often come to the restaurant, Koryo-Won, with his wife, dressed casually and always wearing a baseball cap. A bodyguard would sit outside in the mall, visible through the window.
金正男常和妻子去黄的餐厅Koryo-Won。他穿着随意，总是戴着一顶棒球帽。会有一个保镖坐在外面的商场里，透过窗户就能看到。
“He was very humble, very friendly, a very nice guy,” Mr. Hwang said.
“他很低调，很友好，人非常好，”黄说。
Mr. Kim never gave his name, but Mr. Hwang, who is from South Korea and has family in the North, recognized him. To be certain, he said he collected Mr. Kim’s dishes after a meal and sent them to the South Korean Embassy for fingerprint and DNA analysis, he said. The word came back that it was indeed Mr. Kim.
金正男从未透露自己的姓名，但来自韩国并且在朝鲜有家人的黄认出了他。黄说，为了确认，他曾在金正男吃完饭后将盘子收起来并送去韩国大使馆进行指纹和DNA分析。反馈回来的消息是，此人的确是金正男。
When Kim Jong-un took power, he cut off his half brother’s allowance. In 2013, he executed their uncle, Mr. Jang, on charges of corruption and sedition. Mr. Jang’s nephew, the ambassador, was recalled the same year and is thought to have been executed.
金正恩在掌权后中断了对这个同父异母的哥哥的补贴。2013年，他以腐败和煽动叛乱的名义处决了他们的姑父张成泽。张成泽的侄子、朝鲜驻马来西亚大使于同年被召回。外界认为他也被处决了。
Kim Jong-un may have been angered by reports that his half brother had once considered defecting to South Korea. After Kim Jong-nam’s assassination, some defectors claimed that he had been asked to serve as head of a government in exile. But Kim Jong-nam never formally proposed to defect, according to South Korean officials, and he had told reporters that he had no interest in politics, although he also criticized the dynastic succession in Pyongyang.
金正恩也许是被有关他这个同父异母的哥哥曾考虑叛逃韩国的报道激怒了。金正男被暗杀后，一些脱北者声称有人曾请求他担任流亡政府首脑。但据韩国官员称，金正男从未正式提出去韩国。他还对记者表示自己对政治不感兴趣，不过他也批评过平壤的王朝接班制度。
The Setup
陷阱
When Mr. Kim arrived in Kuala Lumpur on Feb. 6, he was using a diplomatic passport with the name Kim Chol.
2月6日抵达吉隆坡时，金正男用的是一张外交护照，名字是金哲(Kim Chol)。
By then, it appears, the plot against him was already underway.
那时，针对他的阴谋似乎就已经在进行中了。
Four North Korean men accused of organizing the attack had begun arriving on Jan. 31, nearly a week before Mr. Kim, the police say. Each one landed on a different day. The last one arrived Feb. 7, a day after Mr. Kim.
警方称，被控组织这场袭击的四名朝鲜男子从1月31日开始抵达，比金正男早了近一周。每个人的抵达日期都不一样，最后一人2月7日抵达，比金正男晚一天。
Unlike most countries, Malaysia allows North Koreans to enter without a visa and makes it relatively easy for them to work. North Koreans have established a number of businesses in Malaysia to export products to other parts of the world and earn foreign currency to send home.
和大部分国家不同的是，马来西亚允许朝鲜公民免签入境，这让他们的行动相对容易。朝鲜在马来西亚开设了大量企业，为的是把产品出口到世界其他地方，并赚取外汇寄回国。
The four North Korean conspirators apparently recruited Ms. Doan and Ms. Siti, from entertainment establishments. Ms. Siti worked as a “spa masseuse,” the police say, and Ms. Doan as an “entertainment outlet employee.”
这四名朝鲜同谋似乎是从娱乐场所雇佣了段氏香和西蒂。警方称，西蒂的工作是“休闲中心按摩师”，段氏香则是一名“娱乐场所员工”。
Ms. Doan grew up in a small farming village in Vietnam about three hours south of Hanoi and studied pharmacy at a community college. Ms. Siti, grew up in a farming village east of the Indonesian capital, Jakarta. She quit school after sixth grade, was married at 16 and divorced at 20, before she left for Malaysia.
段氏香在越南一个以农业为主的小村子里长大，那里位于河内以南，距河内大约三小时车程。她曾在一所社区大学学习药剂学。西蒂在印尼首都雅加达以东的农村长大。她上完六年级后便退学了，16岁结婚，20岁离婚，后来离开印尼，来到马来西亚。
There were reports that the women were duped, that they had been told they were participating in a prank. Indonesian officials said they thought Ms. Siti was tricked into thinking that she was part of a comedy video involving spraying liquid onto unwitting victims in public.
有报道称她们两人被骗了，对方告诉她们是在参加一个恶作剧。印尼官员称他们认为西蒂被骗了，以为自己是在录一个在公共场所朝不知情受害者喷液体的搞笑视频。
But Mr. Khalid, the police chief, said they knew what they were doing. The women had practiced the attack at two malls, he said.
但马来西亚警察总长卡立德说，她们知道自己在做什么。他说，她们曾在两个商场里练习过袭击。
“We strongly believe it is a planned thing and that they are being trained to do that,” he said. “It is not just shooting movies or a play thing. No way.”
“我们坚信此事是有计划的，她们这么做是受过训练的，”他说。“不是简单的拍电影或好玩。绝不是。”
The police say the plotters also brought in Ri Jong Chol, a North Korean who had been living and working in Kuala Lumpur since at least August. He was almost certainly a government agent, according to Thae Yong-ho, a North Korean diplomat who defected to the South last summer, because he was allowed to live with his family abroad.
警方称密谋者还拉入了至少从8月就开始在吉隆坡生活和工作的朝鲜人李正哲(Ri Jong Chol)。据去年夏天逃至韩国的朝鲜外交官泰勇浩（Thae Yong-ho，音）称，李正哲几乎肯定是政府特工，因为他能够和家人一起生活在国外。
On the morning of Feb. 13, Mr. Kim went to the airport to catch his flight home.
2月13日上午，金正男去机场准备搭乘飞机回家。
Security videos show him entering the departure hall at Terminal 2 carrying a shoulder bag, checking the departure board and walking toward the check-in counter for AirAsia, a budget airline.
监控视频显示，他挎着一个包进入2号航站楼的出发大厅、查看出发航班信息显示屏并走向廉价航空公司亚洲航空(AirAsia)的值机柜台。
After his encounter with the women, Mr. Kim approached airport staff and security officers, waving his hands toward his face repeatedly as he told them of the attack. They walked with him to the airport clinic one level down.
遇到那两名女子后，金正男走向机场工作人员和保安，并在告诉他们自己遭到袭击时不停地朝自己的脸挥手。他们和他一起走向楼下的机场诊所。
Within minutes, he was in an ambulance, but by then the poison was taking effect. He was dead before he reached the hospital, the police said.
几分钟后，他就上了救护车，但那时毒性已发作。警方称金正男在抵达医院前已经死亡。
His last words were, “Very painful, very painful. I was sprayed liquid,” China Press, a Malaysian Chinese-language newspaper, reported.
马来西亚的中文报纸《中国报》(China Press)报道，他的遗言是，“很痛啊，很痛啊，我被人喷了液体。”
The police say the four North Korean conspirators watched the attack unfold. Soon after, they passed through immigration, had their passports stamped and left the country before the authorities realized Mr. Kim had been murdered. All are now believed to be in North Korea.
警方称四名朝鲜同谋亲眼看着袭击展开。不久后，他们过了边检，在护照上盖了章，在当局意识到金正男被谋杀之前离开了该国。据信，这些人现在全部在朝鲜。
Mr. Hwang said Mr. Kim had stopped coming to his restaurant around 2014, after his uncle’s execution, and may have fallen on lean times — which may explain why he had no bodyguards last week as he prepared to fly home on a budget carrier.
黄说，2014年前后，在他姑父被处决后，大概是手头拮据，金正男不再来他的餐厅吃饭。这也许解释了为何他上周准备乘坐廉价航班回家时，没有保镖同行。
Mr. Hwang didn’t see him during his final trip to Kuala Lumpur and was surprised by his appearance in the security video. He was wearing a blazer, instead of his usual T-shirt, and no hat.
在他最后一次来吉隆坡期间，黄没见过他。他在监控视频中的样子令黄感到吃惊。他穿着一件轻便上衣，而不是以前常穿的T恤，并且没戴帽子。
It was the first time Mr. Hwang saw that he was bald.
这是黄第一次发现他谢顶了。
“Nobody could protect him,” he said.
“没人能保护他，”他说。