For many years there has been one overwhelming rule for people who wanted to be considered serious inside the Beltway. It was this: You must declare your willingness to cut Social Security in the name of “entitlement reform.” It wasn’t really about the numbers, which never supported the notion that Social Security faced an acute crisis. It was instead a sort of declaration of identity, a way to show that you were an establishment guy, willing to impose pain (on other people, as usual) in the name of fiscal responsibility.
多年以来，想在美国政治圈被当回事的人们都要遵守一个金科玉律。那就是：你必须表明自己愿意以“福利改革”的名义削减社会保障。这实际上与数据无关，数据从来没有反映出社会保障面临着严峻危机。相反，这是一种身份声明，你可以用这种方式表明你是体制内人士，愿意以财政责任的名义给人们（当然，是其他人）制造痛苦。
But a funny thing has happened in the past year or so. Suddenly, we’re hearing open discussion of the idea that Social Security should be expanded, not cut. Talk of Social Security expansion has even reached the Senate, with Tom Harkin introducing legislation that would increase benefits. A few days ago Senator Elizabeth Warren gave a stirring floor speech making the case for expanded benefits.
但是，过去一年左右，有趣的事情发生了。突然之间，我们听到人们公开讨论社会保障应该扩大，而不是缩减。这种讨论甚至进入了参议院：汤姆·哈金(Tom Harkin)已经介绍了一项可能提高社会福利的法案。几天前，参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)在国会发表了慷慨激昂的演讲，为扩大社会福利大声疾呼。
Where is this coming from? One answer is that the fiscal scolds driving the cut-Social-Security orthodoxy have, deservedly, lost a lot of credibility over the past few years. (Giving the ludicrous Paul Ryan an award for fiscal responsibility? And where’s my debt crisis?) Beyond that, America’s overall retirement system is in big trouble. There’s just one part of that system that’s working well: Social Security. And this suggests that we should make that program stronger, not weaker.
这是唱的哪一出？一个解释是，当初那些把削减社会保障奉为正统的财政喷子，如今已经理所应当地失去了说服力。（给荒唐可笑的保罗·莱恩[Paul Ryan]颁奖表彰他的财政责任？说好的债务危机呢？）除此之外，美国整体的退休制度遇到了很大的麻烦。这个制度只有一部分运行良好：社会保障。这意味着我们应该增强而不是削弱这个项目。
Before I get there, however, let me briefly take on two bad arguments for cutting Social Security that you still hear a lot.
不过，在证明我的观点之前，让我先来反驳一下仍然不绝于耳的两个有关削减社会保障的拙劣观点。
One is that we should raise the retirement age — currently 66, and scheduled to rise to 67 — because people are living longer. This sounds plausible until you look at exactly who is living longer. The rise in life expectancy, it turns out, is overwhelmingly a story about affluent, well-educated Americans. Those with lower incomes and less education have, at best, seen hardly any rise in life expectancy at age 65; in fact, those with less education have seen their life expectancy decline.
一个观点是，我们应该提高退休年龄——目前是66岁，计划提高到67岁——因为人们的寿命延长了。听起来挺有道理，但是你应该看看究竟是谁更长寿了。事实上，预期寿命延长的主要是富裕且接受过良好教育的美国人。收入较低、受教育较少的人到了65岁的时候，情况最好的也看不到什么预期寿命会增加的迹象；事实上，受教育水平较低的人的预期寿命甚至在减少。
So this common argument amounts, in effect, to the notion that we can’t let janitors retire because lawyers are living longer. And lower-income Americans, in case you haven’t noticed, are the people who need Social Security most.
因此，这个常见的观点实际上相当于说，因为律师们活的时间更长了，所有我们不能让门房退休。还有低收入的美国人，如果你没注意到的话我告诉你，他们是最需要社会保障的人。
The other argument is that seniors are doing just fine. Hey, their poverty rate is only 9 percent.
另一个理由是，老年人的生活水平还可以。你看，他们的贫困率仅为9%。
There are two big problems here. First, there are well-known flaws with the official poverty measure, and these flaws almost surely lead to serious understatement of elderly poverty. In an attempt to provide a more realistic picture, the Census Bureau now regularly releases a supplemental measure that most experts consider superior — and this measure puts senior poverty at 14.8 percent, close to the rate for younger adults.
这里存在两个严重问题。首先，官方的贫困标准存在一些有目共睹的缺陷，这些缺陷几乎毫无疑问会导致对老年人贫困率的低估。为了获得更真实的数据，美国人口普查局(Census Bureau)现在定期公布一个补充统计方法，大多数专家认为这个方法比较更优越——用这个方法统计出的老年人贫困率为14.8%，与年轻成年人的贫困比率相差无几。
Furthermore, the elderly poverty rate is highly likely to rise sharply in the future, as the failure of America’s private pension system takes its toll.
此外，随着美国私人养老体系的失灵开始产生负面影响，未来老年人的贫困率极有可能急剧上升。
When you look at today’s older Americans, you are in large part looking at the legacy of an economy that is no more. Many workers used to have defined-benefit retirement plans, plans in which their employers guaranteed a steady income after retirement. And a fair number of seniors (like my father, until he passed away a few months ago) are still collecting benefits from such plans.
如果你看看今天上了年纪的美国人，你很大程度上看到的是往昔经济辉煌的遗存。许多劳动者过去享受着固定收益退休金计划，根据这些计划，雇主们会确保他们在退休之后有稳定的收入。相当多的老年人仍然享受这样的福利（我的父亲就是，直到几个月前去世）。
Today, however, workers who have any retirement plan at all generally have defined-contribution plans — basically, 401(k)’s — in which employers put money into a tax-sheltered account that’s supposed to end up big enough to retire on. The trouble is that at this point it’s clear that the shift to 401(k)’s was a gigantic failure. Employers took advantage of the switch to surreptitiously cut benefits; investment returns have been far lower than workers were told to expect; and, to be fair, many people haven’t managed their money wisely.
不过，如今，工人们即使是享有退休计划，通常也都是定存退休计划——基本上就是401(k)养老金计划——雇主们把钱存入一个赋税优惠的账户，账户中的钱最后应该多到足够员工退休后使用。头疼的是，现在看来转向401(k)显然是一个巨大的败笔。雇主们利用这个转变偷偷削减福利；投资回报远低于告知员工的预期；而且，公平地说，很多人在理财的时候是不怎么明智的。
As a result, we’re looking at a looming retirement crisis, with tens of millions of Americans facing a sharp decline in living standards at the end of their working lives. For many, the only thing protecting them from abject penury will be Social Security. Aren’t you glad we didn’t privatize the program?
因此，我们看到的是一个迫在眉睫的退休危机，数千万的美国人退休后的生活水平将急转直下。对于许多人来说，防止他们陷入无助贫穷的东西就是社会保障。我们没有把这个项目私有化，难道不应该感到庆幸吗？
So there’s a strong case for expanding, not contracting, Social Security. Yes, this would cost money, and it would require additional taxes — a suggestion that will horrify the fiscal scolds, who have been insisting that if we raise taxes at all, the proceeds must go to deficit reduction, not to making our lives better. But the fiscal scolds have been wrong about everything, and it’s time to start thinking outside their box.
因此，我们有充分的理由扩大，而不是缩减社会保障。是的，这需要钱，需要额外的税收——这会吓坏那些财政喷子，他们坚持认为，如果我们增税，这些收入一定要用于减少赤字，而不是提高我们的生活水平。但是财政喷子把所有问题都搞错了，是时候该跳出他们的思维定势了。
Realistically, Social Security expansion won’t happen anytime soon. But it’s an idea that deserves to be on the table — and it’s a very good sign that it finally is.
现实地讲，社会保障的扩大不会很快出现。但这是一个应该被纳入讨论的想法——这一天终于来了，这是个好兆头。