When Dr. Ali Sadrieh, a podiatrist, started Evo Advanced Foot Surgery in Beverly Hills, Calif., 13 years ago, he thought it seemed a little vain for women to ask for surgery because their feet hurt wearing fashionable shoes.
13年前，足病医生阿里·萨德里耶(Ali Sadrieh)在加州比佛利山开设埃沃高级足外科诊所(Evo Advanced Foot Surgery)时，有些女人因为穿时髦的鞋子脚疼要求做手术，他当时认为她们有点爱慕虚荣。
“Patients would bring in shoes they dreamed of wearing,” he said over tea recently at the St. Regis New York, where he was staying to see New York patients. “On the surface, it looked shallow. But I came to see she needs these shoes to project confidence, they are part of her outside skin. That’s the real world.”
“病人们把自己梦想穿上的鞋子带到诊所来，”前不久他在纽约圣里吉斯边喝茶边说。他来纽约是为了给这里的病人治病。“表面上看，这样做很肤浅。但是我后来明白她们需要这些鞋子增加自信，鞋子是她们外表的一部分。这就是现实。”
For Dr. Sadrieh (who was wearing made-to-order Gucci brogues), foot surgery is a fusion of medicine and fairy tale. At his practice, you don’t have a bunionectomy; you have a Cinderella procedure.
对萨德里耶（他穿着定制的古驰粗革皮鞋）来说，足部外科手术是医学和童话故事的结合。在他的诊所，你不是进行囊炎切除术，而是进行灰姑娘手术。
“I had never met a patient who asked for a hallux valgus correction with osteotomy and screw fixation,” he said. “So I decided to create a name that captures the result of the procedure, without all the Latin. The point of the Cinderella: being able to put a shoe on that didn’t fit comfortably before.”
“我从没遇到哪个病人说她想用切骨术和螺丝固定来进行拇趾外翻矫正，”他说，“所以我决定起一个能说明手术效果、不含拉丁术语的名字。比如‘灰姑娘手术’的关键是让人能够穿上之前穿着不舒服的鞋。”
He also has coined the Perfect 10! (aesthetic toe-shortening — once administered, he said, to a 17-year-old fashion model, so she could wear the shoes her career demanded); Model T (toe-lengthening); and Foot Tuck, a fat-pad augmentation that he said helps with high heels.
他另外还起了几个名字：“完美十趾!”（Perfect 10! 为了美观，缩短脚趾——他说曾给一个17岁的时装模特做过这种手术，以便她能穿上职业要求的鞋子）；“T台模特”（Model T，脚趾延长术）；“足垫”（Foot Tuck，增加脂肪垫，让穿高跟鞋更舒服）。
And he is not the only doctor changing the face, as it were, of foot surgery.
他不是唯一一个改变足部手术面貌的医生。
Dr. Neal Blitz, a podiatrist who specializes in aesthetic and reconstructive procedures (including a Bunionplasty) at his private practice in Manhattan, and operates at Mount Sinai Hospital, calls this body part “the final frontier” for those who have had work done on their faces. “My practice has exploded because of Manolo Blahnik, Christian Louboutin and Nicholas Kirkwood,” he said in a recent phone interview. “There’s nothing like opening a shoe closet that’s been closed to somebody for years.”
足病医生尼尔·布利茨(Neal Blitz)专做美容和重造手术（包括拇囊炎整形术），他在曼哈顿有私人诊所，同时在西奈山医院坐诊。他说这个部位已经成为那些做过脸部整容的人“最后的战线”。“因为莫罗·伯拉尼克(Manolo Blahnik)、克里斯提·鲁布托(Christian Louboutin)和尼可拉斯·科克伍德(Nicholas Kirkwood)，我的手术很受欢迎，”前不久他在电话采访中说，“什么都比不上帮某人打开对她关闭多年的鞋柜。”
Perish all thought of Dr. Scholl’s or Birkenstocks in these waiting rooms. Dr. Oliver Zong, founder of NYC Footcare and self-proclaimed “originator of the foot face-lift and toe tuck,” routinely corrects such conditions as High Heel Foot (a term he coined to describe a deformed foot that’s conformed to the shape of a stiletto), and Hitchhiker’s Toe, (an abnormally large big toe that sticks out like the thumb of a hitchhiker). He recently introduced the phrase “Toebesity,” which he plans to describe on his site, where flashing text promises: “Designer feet for designer shoes.”
在候诊室里打消穿爽健(Dr. Scholl)牌或者勃肯(Birkenstocks)牌鞋子的想法吧。奥利弗·宗(Oliver Zong)是纽约足部保健诊所(NYC Footcare)的创立者，自称“足部整形和脚趾加垫的创始人”，他经常矫正的足部问题包括“高跟鞋脚”（这个名称是他自创的，用以形容不符合细高跟鞋形状的畸形脚）和“便车脚趾”（大脚趾异常大，像搭便车旅行者的大脚趾那样突出来）。他最近推出了“脚趾肥大症”(Toebesity)这个名词，打算在自己的网站上解释这个名词，网站上闪动的文字承诺：“专门为名牌鞋子设计的脚。”
One designer, Cathy Hardwick, who gave Tom Ford his first assistant job, had bilateral bunion surgery from Dr. Richard Frankel, the founder of Park 56 Podiatry, in 2008. “He didn’t want to operate, it was so little,” she said of the bump. But, she added: “It was unsightly and it hurt when I wore certain shoes. A few years later he operated. My foot is perfect now. And I can wear sandals I couldn’t wear before.”
设计师凯茜·哈德威克(Cathy Hardwick)曾给了汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)第一份助理工作。2008年，公园56号足科诊所(Park 56 Podiatry)的创始人理查德·弗兰克尔(Richard Frankel)给她做了双侧拇囊炎手术。“他本来不想做手术，因为它很小，”她指的是肿块很小。但是她补充说：“它不好看，而且我穿某些鞋子时它疼。几年后他给我做了手术。我的脚现在很完美。我能穿上以前不能穿的凉鞋了。”
Indeed, it’s not unusual for patients to walk into Dr. Suzanne Levine’s Institute Beauté, a podiatry clinic and medical spa on Park Avenue, with a bag full of shoes they can’t wear because of bunions and hammertoes. Victorian boots, Jimmy Choos and Manolo Blahniks are some of the examples on floor-to-ceiling glass shelves. Dr. Levine consults with patients on the designer high heels best suited to their particular feet, knowing, for example that both Prada and Michael Kors make a wider-than-average shoe last. “Some people won’t go to the beach or the pool, they’re so embarrassed about their feet,” said Dr. Levine, who was wearing chunky-heeled Michael Kors bootees during a recent interview.
实际上，病人们带着一袋子因拇囊炎和槌状脚趾而不能穿的鞋子走进苏珊娜·莱文(Suzanne Levine)医生位于帕克大道的足科诊所和疗养所“美丽学院”(Institute Beauté)的情况并不少见。从地板直到天花板的玻璃架子上放着维多利亚式靴子、周仰杰(Jimmy Choos)和莫罗·伯拉尼克等品牌的鞋子。莱文医生和病人们协商最适合她们的脚的名牌高跟鞋，发现普拉达(Prada)和迈克·高仕(Michael Kors)的鞋楦比一般的要宽。“有些人不去海滩或游泳池是因为她们为自己的脚感到难堪，”前不久莱文医生接受采访时说。她穿着鞋跟短粗的迈克·高仕短靴。
Her solutions, described in five books such as, “My Feet Are Killing Me,” include, among others, platelet-rich plasma therapy; stem-cell injections; injectable fillers for metatarsal cushioning; Botox; Dysport; Myobloc for excess sweating. She also advocates exercises for the feet.
她在五本书里——其中包括《我的脚疼死了》(My Feet Are Killing Me)——描述了自己的解决方法，比如富含血小板血浆疗法；干细胞注射法；可注射的跖骨缓冲填料；肉毒杆菌；丽舒妥(Dysport)；治疗过量出汗的B型肉毒杆菌。她还提出了一些足部锻炼方法。
The craziest request she’s received? “Once a patient came in asking for toe liposuction,” Dr. Levine said incredulously. And Dr. Zong said he had a patient ask to have a pinkie toe removed to fit into her shoes. Neither request was granted.
她遇到的最疯狂的要求是什么？“有一次一位病人来这里要求进行脚趾吸脂术，”莱文医生脸上带着不可思议的表情说。宗医生说他有个病人为了穿上鞋子想切除小脚趾。这两个要求都没有得到满足。
Dr. Jonathan T. Deland, chief of the foot and ankle service and attending orthopedic surgeon at the Hospital for Special Surgery, is opposed to even less-radical cosmetic procedures.
特殊外科医院(Hospital for Special Surgery)的足部脚踝科主任、整形外科主治医师乔纳森·T·迪兰德(Jonathan T. Deland)反对哪怕是不这么激进的美容手术。
“The most important thing about a foot is that is doesn’t hurt you and you can function,” he said. “If we’re just talking about three-and-a-half-inch-heel stilettos that cause pain and if they wear a two-and-a-half-inch heel with no pain, then that’s probably not a good reason to do surgery.”
“脚最重要的是不疼，功能正常，”他说，“如果穿3.5英寸的细高跟鞋脚疼，穿2.5英寸的鞋跟就不疼，那很可能就不用做手术。”
Dr. Deland is cautious about injections designed to pad the feet. “If there was an injection that really worked and that lasted, a lot of good doctors would be using it, because it’s a common problem,” he said. “The answer is, there is not. The patient should ask, ‘Hey, doctor, can you give me the article or the reference that shows long-term follow-up for that procedure?’ ”
迪兰德对旨在给脚加垫的注射持谨慎态度。“如果真有什么注射能起作用而且长期有效，很多好医生都用这个方法了，因为它是个普遍问题，”他说，“可事实不是这样的。病人应该问，‘嗨，医生，你能给我看看关于那种手术的长期术后跟踪的文章或者参考资料吗？’”
But to Annette Healey, an executive vice president in retail services with CBRE, elective bunion surgery felt like a necessity. “Sneakers never worked for my career,” said Ms. Healey. She had elective bunion surgery in 2011 two days after Christmas, “while everyone was away in St. Barts,” she added, so she “could camouflage it better with Uggs.”
但是对世邦魏理仕(CBRE)的零售服务执行副总裁安妮特·希利(Annette Healey)来说，选择性拇囊炎手术感觉像是必须做的手术。“我的工作从来不能穿帆布鞋，”希利说。2011年圣诞节两天后她做了选择性拇囊炎手术，她说因为那时“所有的人都去圣巴茨玩了”，所以她“可以穿Ugg雪地靴更好地掩饰”。
Her orthopedic surgeon, Dr. Craig Radnay, told her that her gait had become increasingly affected by her foot issues and that she was hurting her back.
她的整形外科医生克雷格·劳德鲁伊(Craig Radnay)告诉她她的步态越来越受到足部问题的影响了，而且那对她的背部也有害。
Ms. Healey said she can now walk 20 miles in fashionable boots. “If you live in New York, your feet are your wheels,” she said. Though she spends 95 percent of her time in chic flats or wedges, she also wears Prada, Manolo and Gucci heels. But there are limits. “Sadly, I will never get my foot into a Christian Louboutin,” she said.
希利说她现在能穿着时髦的靴子走20英里。“如果你住在纽约，那双脚就是你的车轮，”她说。虽然她95%的时间穿着时髦的平底鞋或者坡跟鞋，但是她也穿普拉达、莫罗和古驰高跟鞋。但是她仍有局限。“不幸的是，我永远穿不上克里斯提·鲁布托的鞋子，”她说。