WASHINGTON — As Russian hackers and propagandists tried to manipulate the American election last year, the C.I.A. noticed a series of suspicious contacts between Russian government officials and associates of Donald J. Trump’s campaign, John O. Brennan, the former C.I.A. director, said Tuesday.
华盛顿——前中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O.Brennan)周二表示，俄罗斯黑客和宣传机构去年试图操纵美国大选的时候，CIA注意到了俄罗斯政府官员和唐纳德·特朗普的竞选班底之间有一系列可疑的联系。
In testimony before the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Brennan described a nerve-fraying few months as American authorities realized that the election was under attack and worried that Mr. Trump’s campaign might be aiding that fight. His remarks were the fullest public account to date of the origins of an F.B.I. investigation that continues to shadow the Trump administration.
在众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)的证词中，布伦南描述了在那紧张的几个月里，美国当局意识到选举正在遭受攻击，他们担心特朗普的竞选团队有可能对攻击施以援手。他的言论是迄今为止，关于FBI如何开始进行调查的一个最全面的公开陈述。FBI的那起调查仍然笼罩在特朗普领导团队的头顶。
“I know what the Russians try to do. They try to suborn individuals and try to get individuals, including U.S. individuals, to act on their behalf, wittingly or unwittingly,” Mr. Brennan said. When he left office in January, he said, “I had unresolved questions in my mind as to whether or not the Russians had been successful in getting U.S. persons involved in the campaign or not to work on their behalf.”
“我知道俄罗斯人在试图做什么。他们试图收买一些人，并试图让一些人，包括一些美国人，在无意或有意中代表他们行事。”布伦南在1月份离职的时候说，“我脑海中有一些尚未解决的问题，就是俄罗斯人是否成功地让一些美国人参与到了里面，代表他们的意志行事。”
Mr. Brennan acknowledged that he did not know whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russian operatives and said the contacts might be benign. But his confirmation of those contacts was the latest revelation to undermine Mr. Trump’s changing account of his campaign’s links to Russia.
布伦南承认，他不知道特朗普的竞选团队是否与俄罗斯的特工有勾结，他说，这种接触可能是良性的。但他对这些联系的确认，是对特朗普说法的最新打击；对于其竞选团队与俄罗斯之间的联系，特朗普的说法不断在变。
American intelligence agencies have concluded that the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, tried to damage Hillary Clinton’s candidacy and help Mr. Trump. On Aug. 4, as evidence of that campaign mounted, Mr. Brennan warned Alexander Bortnikov, the director of Russia’s Federal Security Service, known as the F.S.B., not to meddle in the election. Not only would interference damage relations between the two countries, he said, it was certain to backfire.
美国情报机构得出结论，俄罗斯总统普京试图破坏希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动，帮助特朗普获胜。8月4日，就在这种干预活动的证据增多时，布伦南警告俄联邦安全局(FSB)局长亚历山大·博尔特尼科夫(Alexander Bortnikov)不要干预选举。他说，这不仅会破坏两国间的关系，而且会适得其反。
“I said that all Americans, regardless of political affiliation or whom they might support in the election, cherish their ability to elect their own leaders without outside interference or disruption,” Mr. Brennan said. “I said American voters would be outraged by any Russian attempt to interfere in election.”
布伦南说：“我说，所有的美国人，无论政治派别，无论他们在选举中可能支持谁，都珍惜自己不受外界的干扰，选择自己领导人的权利。我还说，美国选民会因俄罗斯干预选举的任何企图而感到愤怒。”
Mr. Brennan’s warning proved futile. Though intelligence agencies are unanimous in their belief that Russia directly interfered with the election, it has become a divisive partisan issue, with Democrats far more likely than Republicans to accept the conclusion. President Trump has declared that “Russia is fake news” and tried to undermine the conclusions of his own intelligence services.
布伦南的警告没起到作用。虽然情报机构一致认为俄方直接干涉了选举，但不同党派的立场是不同的，相比于共和党人，民主党人更有可能接受这个结论。特朗普总统宣称“通俄案是假消息”，并且试图削弱他自己的情报部门得出的结论。
He has also repeatedly tried to beat back news stories about his campaign’s ties to Russia. White House officials tried to enlist the F.B.I. and C.I.A. to dispute stories early this year. Then, after the F.B.I. publicly confirmed its investigation, Mr. Trump asked Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, and Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security Agency, to publicly deny any collusion between Russia and his campaign, according to two former American officials. The Washington Post first reported Mr. Trump’s entreaties.
特朗普也一再试图压制关于他的竞选团队与俄罗斯之间联系的新闻。今年年初，白宫官员试图让FBI和CIA辩驳这些消息。之后，据美国前两名美国官员说，在FBI公开证实正在调查之后，特朗普要求国家情报局局长丹·科茨(Dan Coats)和国家安全局局长迈克尔·S·罗杰斯(Michael S. Rogers)公开否认俄罗斯与其竞选团队之间有勾结。《华盛顿邮报》率先报道了特朗普做出这些恳求的消息。
On the day of the F.B.I.’s confirmation, a call from the White House switchboard came in to Mr. Coats’s office with a request to speak to the director, a former intelligence official said. Calls from the switchboard are usually from the highest officials at the White House — the president, the vice president or the national security adviser.
一位前情报官员说，在FBI进行确认的当天，科茨的办公室收到了来自白宫总机的一个电话，要求与其交谈。来自总机的电话通常是白宫最高官员打来的，比如总统、副总统或国家安全顾问。
Mr. Coats took the call. The official would not confirm what was discussed.
科茨接了电话。他拒绝确认电话中讨论的内容。
Mr. Coats, who testified Tuesday in a separate congressional hearing, declined to discuss his conversations with the president.
科茨本周二在国会一个单独的听证会上作证时，拒绝讨论他与总统之间的交谈。
During his candidacy, Mr. Trump’s spokeswoman declared that “there was no communication” with foreign entities. And Vice President Mike Pence flatly denied in January that there had been any contacts with Russians. Journalists have since reported repeated undisclosed meetings with Russians. Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, was forced to resign over misstatements about his conversations with the Russian ambassador to the United States, Sergey I. Kislyak.
特朗普的发言人曾表示，在竞选期间，特朗普的班底和外国实体“没有往来”。1月份副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)直截了当地否认他们与俄罗斯有任何接触。此后，记者们不断爆出他们与俄罗斯人进行过未公开会面的消息。特朗普的第一位国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)就是因为和俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·基斯利亚克(Sergey Kislyak)会面而被迫辞职的。
A Justice Department special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is investigating whether any collusion took place. A grand jury in Northern Virginia has issued subpoenas for information related to Mr. Flynn’s lobbying and businesses.
司法部特别顾问罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)正在调查这桩“通俄”案。北维吉尼亚州的一个大陪审团已经针对弗林的游说和生意信息发出了传票。
Mr. Brennan described Russia’s efforts around the world to use politicians to further Moscow’s objectives. “I certainly was concerned that they were practicing the same types of activities here in the United States,” he said.
布伦南谈到了俄罗斯在全球利用政界人物推进莫斯科自己的目标的行动。“我当然担心他们在美国开展同样的活动，”他说。
In late July, officials established a group of N.S.A., C.I.A. and F.B.I. officials to investigate the election interference. The information was tightly held, and the F.B.I. took the lead on investigating potential collusion, Mr. Brennan said.
7月末，官方成立了一个由国家安全局(NSA)、中央情报局和联邦调查局的官员组成的机构，调查选举是否受到的干预。布伦南说，相关信息严格保密，联邦调查局带头调查可能存在的合谋。
“I made sure that anything that was involving U.S. persons, including anything involving the individuals involved in the Trump campaign, was shared with the bureau,” he said.
“我确保任何涉及美国公民的情况，包括涉及和特朗普竞选团队有关的个人的任何情况，都和联邦调查局共享，”他说。