WASHINGTON — The Justice Department has appointed Robert S. Mueller III, the former FBI director, to serve as a special counsel to oversee its investigation into Russian meddling in the election, Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein announced Wednesday.
华盛顿——美国司法部副部长罗德·J·罗森斯坦(Rod J. Rosenstein)周三宣布，该部已任命前联邦调查局(FBI)局长罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)担任特别顾问，负责FBI对俄罗斯干预选举案的调查工作。
The appointment of Mueller dramatically raises the stakes for President Donald Trump in the multiple investigations into his campaign’s ties to the Russians. It follows a swiftly moving series of developments that have roiled Washington, including Trump’s abrupt dismissal of the FBI director, James B. Comey, and the disclosure that the president urged Comey to drop the bureau’s investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn.
针对特朗普总统的竞选活动与俄罗斯人之间的关系，目前已经有多项调查在进行中，穆勒的任命大大提高了特朗普的风险。一系列事件正在华盛顿迅速发酵，其中包括特朗普突然免去FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)的职务，以及他敦促科米撤销对前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)调查一事的曝光，穆勒的任命就是在这个时候做出的。
“I determined that it is in the public interest for me to exercise my authorities and appoint a special counsel to assume responsibility for this matter,” Rosenstein said in a statement. “My decision is not a finding that crimes have been committed or that any prosecution is warranted. I have made no such determination.”
“我决定以符合公共利益的方式行使我的权力，并任命一位特别顾问负责此事。”罗森斯坦在一份声明中说。“我的决定不是发现了犯罪行为，或者保证进行检控。我还没有得出这样的结论。”
While a special counsel would remain ultimately answerable to Rosenstein — and by extension, the president — he would have greater autonomy to run an investigation than a U.S. attorney would. Mueller will be able to choose to what extent to consult with or inform the Justice Department about his investigation as it goes forward.
尽管特别顾问最终仍将向罗森斯坦汇报——当然也就是对总统汇报——但他比联邦检察官拥有更大的调查自主权。穆勒可以选择与司法部进行商议或者向司法部通报调查情况的程度。
Mueller is viewed by members of both parties as one of the most credible law enforcement officials in the country. He served both Democratic and Republican presidents, from 2001 to 2013, and was asked by President Barack Obama to stay on beyond the normal 10-year term until Comey was appointed.
穆勒被两党都视为美国最可靠的执法官员之一。他从2001年至2013年担任FBI局长，经历了民主党和共和党总统执政时期。应奥巴马总统的要求，在通常10年的任期结束后继续留任，直到科米被任命为局长才卸任。
Inside the FBI, he is known for his gruff, exacting management style — and for saving the institution. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, there were calls to break up the FBI and create a separate domestic intelligence agency. Mueller, who came to the agency just one week before the attacks, beat back those efforts and is credited with building the modern FBI. He led the investigations into al-Qaida while simultaneously transforming the agency into a key part of the national security infrastructure.
在FBI内部，他以粗暴、严厉的管理风格而闻名——也因挽救了FBI而闻名。9·11恐怖袭击事件发生后，有人呼吁分拆FBI，建立一个独立的国内情报机构。9·11发生前一周才刚上任的穆勒抵制了这些努力，他还被誉为建立了现代的FBI。他领导了对基地组织的调查，同时将FBI转变为国家安全基础架构的关键部门。
In his capacity as special counsel, Mueller will be able to request additional resources for the investigation. Those requests will be reviewed by Lee Lofthus, assistant attorney general for administration.
作为特别顾问，穆勒可以为这起调查寻求更多的资源。这类申请将由助理司法部长李·洛夫特斯(Lee Lofthus)进行审查。
Mueller is expected to announce his resignation from the law firm WilmerHale.
预计穆勒将宣布辞去其目前在威凯平和而德律师事务所(WilmerHale)的工作。