MUMBAI, India — India’s government on Thursday appointed the Washington-based development economist Arvind Subramanian as its chief economic adviser.
印度孟买——本周四，印度政府任命定居华盛顿的发展经济学家阿文德·萨勃拉曼尼亚(Arvind Subramanian)为其首席经济顾问。
The prominent post has been vacant since Raghuram Rajan left the position last year to become the central bank governor. The delay in filling this and other senior advisory positions after the government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi took over in May was seen as encumbering the announcement of broad-based economic reforms.
自从上一任首席经济顾问拉古拉姆·拉詹(Raghuram Rajan)成为印度央行行长以来，这个重要职位一直空缺。以总理纳伦德拉·莫迪为首的新政府今年5月就任后，为该职位和其他高级顾问职位任命人员的工作出现延迟，一些人认为，这种状况妨碍了广泛经济改革的启动。
Speculation has been rife about the appointment of Mr. Subramanian, who was born and received his early education in India, since his candidacy first emerged in August.
萨勃拉曼尼亚在印度出生并接受了早期教育，自从今年8月他的名字第一次出现在候选人名单上，人们就盛传他会获得任命。
The appointment of the chief economic adviser comes as the government prepares its first full-year budget, due in February. The adviser is typically responsible for the annual economic survey used in the drafting of the budget, but Mr. Subramanian will have to wait because the survey for this year was released in July. His appointment is for three years.
本次任命首席经济顾问，正值印度新政府为首个全年预算做准备之际，它的截止期限在2月。用来起草该预算的年度经济调查，通常由首席经济顾问负责，但萨勃拉曼尼亚必须等待一段时间，因为今年的调查是在7月发布的。萨勃拉曼尼亚的任期为三年。
At a news conference in New Delhi, Mr. Subramanian said he would focus on providing equal growth for Indians at all economic levels. “It is an honor and privilege to serve a government that has a mandate for reform and change,” he said.
在新德里举办的新闻发布会上，萨勃拉曼尼亚表示，他将侧重于在各个经济层面为印度人提供同等程度的增长。“为一个肩负改革和变革任务的政府效力是种荣幸，”他说。
Mr. Subramanian is now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. He previously worked closely with Mr. Rajan when both held positions at the International Monetary Fund; Mr. Subramanian was an assistant director in the research department. He has also worked at the World Bank and the World Trade Organization. He has taught at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.
萨勃拉曼尼亚目前是华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的高级研究员。之前他与拉詹在国际货币基金组织(IMF)共事时，两人曾有过紧密合作；萨勃拉曼尼亚曾是IMF研究部门的助理主任。他还曾效力于世界银行(World Bank)和世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)，并在哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院(Kennedy School of Government)和约翰·霍普金斯大学的高级国际研究学院(School of Advanced International Studies)担任教职。
Analysts said Mr. Subramanian’s appointment would bolster the government’s efforts to revive the economy.
分析师表示，任命萨勃拉曼尼亚为首席经济顾问，有助于推动政府振兴经济的努力。
“In its first few months in office, the Modi government has been criticized for lacking an overarching vision on the economy,” said Milan Vaishnav, an analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a research center in Washington. “What Arvind brings is not only a brilliant analytical mind but an ability to see and articulate the big reform picture. He is also a fiercely independent thinker, which means that the government will receive unvarnished and unfiltered economic advice.”
“在莫迪政府上任的最初几个月里，一些人批评它没有总体经济设想，”华盛顿研究机构卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for international Peace)分析师米兰·瓦希纳夫(Milan Vaishnav)说。“阿文德不仅具有极强的分析能力，而且可以看到和阐明全面的改革图景。他也非常擅长独立思考，这意味着，政府将会获得未经粉饰和过滤的经济建议。”
Mr. Subramanian himself has occasionally criticized the government. In June, he published a “provisional economic scorecard” for Mr. Modi’s administration on the website of the Peterson Institute. He gave the government high marks for its moves to ease labor laws and curb inflation but disapproved of tax concessions given to the automobile sector and an increase in sugar subsidies. Mr. Subramanian also recently criticized the government’s decision to block a World Trade Organization deal to streamline trade procedures, after a dispute over food subsidies.
萨勃拉曼尼亚本人也偶尔会批评政府。今年6月，他在彼得森国际经济研究所的网站上发布“临时经济记分卡”，评价了莫迪的治国举措。对于政府放宽劳动法和抑制通胀，萨勃拉曼尼亚给予了高度评价，但他不赞同政府减免汽车业税率和增加糖业补贴的措施。最近印度政府在一起粮食补贴争端之后，决定拒绝通过世贸组织一项用来简化贸易程序的协议，此举也遭到了萨勃拉曼尼亚的批评。