WASHINGTON — David H. Petraeus, in his first testimony since resigning as director of the C.I.A., told Congress on Tuesday that the United States should establish enclaves in Syria where a moderate rebel force could operate and where displaced Syrians could find refuge.
华盛顿——自辞去美国中央情报局(CIA)局长一职之后，戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)于周二第一次在国会出席听证会，其间他表示，美国应该在叙利亚建立一些安全区，在那里，温和反对派武装可以展开行动，无家可归的叙利亚人也能找到避难所。
Mr. Petraeus also suggested that the United States take military action to stop the barrel-bomb attacks that President Bashar al-Assad has carried out against Syrian towns and cities, and urged that steps be taken to strengthen the military effort against the Islamic State group in Iraq.
彼得雷乌斯还建议美国采取军事行动，阻止叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)继续使用油桶炸弹向本国城镇发起袭击。他同时敦促美国采取措施，加强对伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)实施的军事打击。
Before his time at the C.I.A., Mr. Petraeus was a four-star Army general who headed the American-led coalition in Iraq and Afghanistan and was in charge of the United States Central Command, which oversees American troops in the Middle East. His recommendations to Congress go far beyond the steps the White House, which has been cautious about using military power in Syria and Iraq, has embraced.
在担任中央情报局局长之前，彼得雷乌斯是一名四星陆军上将，曾担任以美国为首的驻伊拉克和阿富汗盟军的军事首领，也是负责驻中东部队行动的美军中央司令部(United States Central Command)的指挥官。他向国会提出的建议远远超出了白宫接受的程度，后者对于在叙利亚和伊拉克动用武力一直非常谨慎。
Mr. Petraeus argued in his testimony that it was important to pursue a diplomatic solution to the Syrian conflict. But he asserted that the Obama administration had failed to take military steps that would put pressure on Mr. Assad and facilitate a political resolution to the bloody conflict.
彼得雷乌斯在他的证词中赞同，寻求以外交途径解决叙利亚冲突是很重要的。但他也强调，奥巴马政府一直未能采取军事措施向阿萨德施压，从而促成可以解决这一流血冲突的政治方案。
“It is frequently said that there is ‘no military solution’ to Syria or the other conflicts roiling the Middle East,” Mr. Petraeus told the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This may be true, but it is also misleading. For, in every case, if there is to be any hope of a political settlement, a certain military and security context is required, and that context will not materialize on its own. We and our partners need to facilitate it — and over the past four years, we have not done so.”
“经常有人说，‘要解决中东地区愈演愈烈的叙利亚冲突或其他纷争，‘军事手段是行不通的，’”彼得雷乌斯对参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)说道。“这话本身可能没错，但它有一定的误导性。因为，不管哪一次，如果说有达成政治和解的丁点希望，一定的武力和安全环境都是必要的，而这个环境不会自己冒出来。我们和盟友需要推动这一点，而在过去四年里，我们一直没有这么做。”
A Pentagon program to train and equip Syrian rebels has failed to attract many recruits, largely because the goal is to train Syrians to fight the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, and not the Assad government.
五角大楼推出的一个训练和武装叙利亚反对派的计划未能吸引到足够多的人参与，这在很大程度上是因为该计划的目标是训练叙利亚人抗击伊斯兰国，而非阿萨德政府。
By establishing enclaves within Syria and taking action to stop the Syrian government’s barrel-bomb attacks, Mr. Petraeus asserted, the United States could attract substantially more support from Sunnis, a repressed majority in the country. That would produce a counterweight to the Syrian government and the Islamic State, and put pressure on the government to agree to a political settlement, he said.
彼得雷乌斯认为，通过在叙利亚建立安全区，采取行动阻止叙利亚政府实施油桶炸弹袭击，美国从叙利亚受压制的多数人口逊尼派获得的支持可能会大幅增加。他还表示，这将对叙利亚政府和伊斯兰国形成一定制衡，可以向叙利亚政府施加压力，促使他们同意达成政治和解。
“The central problem in Syria is that Sunni Arabs will not be willing partners against the Islamic State unless we commit to protect them and the broader Syrian population against all enemies, not just ISIS,” Mr. Petraeus said. “That means protecting them from the unrestricted warfare being waged against them by Bashar al-Assad, especially by his air force and its use of barrel bombs.”
“叙利亚的核心问题是，逊尼派阿拉伯人不会自愿配合打击伊斯兰国，除非我们承诺保护他们以及更广泛的叙利亚民众，使之免受所有敌人的攻击，不只是伊斯兰国，”彼得雷乌斯说。“那意味着保护他们不受巴沙尔·阿萨德对他们发起的肆无忌惮的战争的伤害，尤其是他使用空军和油桶炸弹实施的袭击。”
“I would also support the establishment of enclaves in Syria protected by coalition air power,” he added, “where a moderate Sunni force could be supported and where additional forces could be trained, internally displaced persons could find refuge and the Syrian opposition could organize.”
“我也会支持在叙利亚建立由盟军空中力量保护的安全区，”他还表示。“在那里，温和逊尼派武装可以取得支持，增援部队可以进行训练，叙利亚国内流离失所的民众可以寻求庇护，叙利亚反对派也可以组织力量。”
In Iraq, where the fight between the Islamic State and the American-based coalition is at an impasse, Mr. Petraeus suggested several steps to strengthen the military effort, including embedding American advisers with Iraqi forces at the brigade level and exploring the use of American teams to call in airstrikes on behalf of Iraqi forces.
在伊拉克，伊斯兰国和美国为主的盟军之间的对抗陷入了僵局。彼得雷乌斯建议采取几个步骤来加强在伊拉克的军事行动，包括让美国顾问融入伊拉克旅级部队，探索由美国团队以伊拉克部队的名义发起空袭的方式。
He also recommended moving the American headquarters that is overseeing the fight against the Islamic State to Baghdad from Kuwait, so the commander would have more opportunity to interact with the United States ambassador in Iraq.
他还建议将美国负责抗击伊斯兰国行动的指挥部从科威特转移到巴格达，这样指挥官就可以有更多机会与美国驻伊拉克大使进行沟通。
“We are not where we should be at this point,” he said, referring to the military effort in Iraq. “In my judgment, increased support for the Iraqi Security Forces, Sunni tribal forces and Kurdish pesh merga is needed, including embedding U.S. adviser elements to the brigade headquarters level of those Iraqi forces fighting ISIS.”
谈到美国在伊拉克的军事动作时，他说，“我们没有达成现在本应实现的目标。在我看来，有必要增加对伊拉克安全部队、逊尼派部落武装和库尔德敢死军的支持，包括在抗击伊斯兰国的伊拉克部队旅级指挥部门安插美国顾问。”
As director of the C.I.A., Mr. Petraeus proposed that the Obama administration mount a covert program to train and arm moderate Syrian rebels. After considerable delay, President Obama approved the effort.
担任中央情报局局长期间，彼得雷乌斯曾建议奥巴马政府发起训练和武装温和叙利亚反对派的秘密项目。在拖延了比较长的时间之后，奥巴马政府最终接受了这一提议。
That program, and the Pentagon’s parallel effort to train and arm Syrian rebels to fight the Islamic State, has failed to significantly change the course of the Syrian conflict. The Islamic State, not the Syrian moderates the United States supports, has emerged as the major rebel fighting force in Syria. But Mr. Petraeus indicated that he thought training Syrian rebels was a worthy goal that had not been carried out effectively by the Obama administration.
这个项目，连同五角大楼同时进行的另外一个训练和武装叙利亚反对派以抗击伊斯兰国的计划，都没能明显改变叙利亚冲突的进程。结果，伊斯兰国，而非美国支持的叙利亚温和派，成为该国的主要反对派武装力量。但彼得雷乌斯称，他认为训练叙利亚反对派是一项值得努力的目标，只不过没有得到奥巴马政府的有效实施。
Mr. Petraeus said the United States must be prepared to push back against Iran’s support for the Assad government and for extremist militias in the Middle East — a point that Mr. Obama also made in arguing for the nuclear accord with Iran.
彼得雷乌斯表示，美国必须做好准备，对伊朗对阿萨德政府和中东极端民兵组织的支持进行反击。在为伊朗核协议辩护时，奥巴马也曾提到这一点。
“The most immediate test for the credibility” of the United States’ policy to contain Iranian power in the wake of that deal, Mr. Petraeus said, “will be what we do in Iraq and Syria.”
随着伊朗核协议的签署，最快检验美国遏制伊朗势力的政策是否有效的，彼得雷乌斯说，“就是我们在伊拉克和叙利亚的行动。”
“No one is more conscious of the costs of military intervention, and of the limits of our military power, than I am,” he said. “But inaction can also carry profound risks and costs for our national security.”
“我比所有人都清楚，进行军事干预的代价和我们军事力量的极限，”他说。“但不作为也会给我们的国家安全带来很大风险，让我们付出极大的代价。”