CHARLOTTE, N.C. — A federal judge on Thursday sentenced David H. Petraeus, a former C.I.A director and the highest-profile general from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to two years’ probation and fined him $100,000 for providing classified information to a mistress.
北卡罗来纳州夏洛特——周四，一名联邦法官判处前中央情报局(CIA)局长、伊拉克和阿富汗战争中最引人注目的将领戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)缓刑两年，并对他处以罚款10万美元（约合62万元人民币）。其罪名是向情妇提供机密信息。
The ruling was a particularly disappointing result for F.B.I. officials, who said that Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., had given Mr. Petraeus preferential treatment in agreeing to recommend probation instead of prison time.
对于联邦调查局(FBI)官员，这个判决尤其令人失望。这些官员称，司法部长小埃里克·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)给彼得雷乌斯提供了特殊待遇，因为他同意推荐缓刑，而非坐牢。
Although the judge overseeing the case, David C. Keesler, agreed with the probation recommendation, he added $60,000 to the government’s suggested fine of $40,000. In response to questions from Judge Keesler about the fine, federal prosecutors and Mr. Petraeus’ lawyers could not explain how they determined the initial figure.
尽管负责此案的法官戴维·C·凯斯勒(David C. Kessler)同意缓刑建议，但他又在政府推荐的4万美元的罚款上增加了6万美元。凯斯勒对罚款存在疑问；对于他的疑问，联邦检察官和彼得雷乌斯的律师无法解释他们是如何确定这个最初数额的。
For much of the hearing, Mr. Petraeus sat at a long table in front of the judge, flanked by his team of lawyers. He stood several times to answer questions from the judge, including toward the end of the hearing when the former general made a short statement.
听证会的大部分时间，彼得雷乌斯都坐在法官面前的长桌边，旁边是他的律师团队。为了回答法官的问题，这位前将领曾起立几次，包括听证会即将结束时做简短陈词。
“I want to take this opportunity to apologize to those closest to me and others, including this court, for the pain my actions have caused,” Mr. Petraeus said.
彼得雷乌斯说，“我想借此机会为我的行为所引起的痛苦，向那些与我和其他人关系最密切的人——包括这个法庭——表示道歉。”
F.B.I. officials and some prosecutors had contended that Mr. Petraeus should receive prison time for providing highly classified journals to a woman with whom he had an affair and who wrote his biography when he was the director of the C.I.A.
FBI官员和一些检察官曾经认为，因为向情妇提供高度保密的资料，彼得雷乌斯应该坐牢。在他担任CIA局长期间，这名女子曾撰写了他的传记。
Not only had the head of the C.I.A. potentially jeopardized national security, but he had lied about it to F.B.I. agents in an interview, the officials said. Lying to federal agents is a felony that carries a sentence of up to five years in prison. The Justice Department has used that charge against terrorists, corrupt politicians and low-level drug dealers.
官员称，彼得雷乌斯不仅对国家安全造成了威胁，而且还曾在接受FBI特工问讯时撒谎。欺骗联邦特工是重罪，最高可判处五年徒刑。司法部曾对恐怖分子、腐败的政客和低级毒贩提出这种指控。
And giving special treatment to Mr. Petraeus was a double standard, some argued, particularly when the Justice Department has led an unprecedented crackdown on leaks and prosecuted several low- and midlevel officials for disclosing secrets to reporters.
一些人辩称，给彼得雷乌斯特殊待遇是在执行一种双重标准，尤其考虑到司法部正在开展史无前例的行动打击泄密行为，并指控了几名向记者泄密的中低层官员。
By agreeing to a plea deal, Mr. Petraeus was spared what would have likely been an embarrassing trial.
彼得雷乌斯同意达成认罪协议，借此避免了可能非常尴尬的审判。
But without a deal, the Justice Department would have faced the prospect of going to trial against a decorated war hero over a disclosure of secrets that President Obama himself said did not harm national security. Plus, a trial would require the government to reveal some of the classified information.
但如果没有达成协议，司法部就要对一名被授予勋章的战争英雄进行审判，而奥巴马总统表示这种泄密行为没有损害国家安全。此外，进行审判还需要政府公开一些机密信息。
Mr. Petraeus’ lawyers insisted to prosecutors that he would not accept a deal that required prison time.
彼得雷乌斯的律师对检察官强调称，他不会接受需要服刑的协议。
Ultimately, Mr. Holder approved the plea agreement, despite objections from federal agents.
尽管遭到联邦机构的反对，霍尔德最终批准了这份认罪协议。
Shortly after Mr. Petraeus’ plea deal was announced, the lawyer for an imprisoned former State Department arms contractor sent a letter to prosecutors contending that the deal given to Mr. Petraeus revealed a “profound double standard” in the way the Obama administration treats people who leak classified information.
在彼得雷乌斯接受认罪协议的消息宣布后不久，正在服刑的一名前国务院军火承包商的律师给检方写了一封信，辩称彼得雷乌斯的协议说明，奥巴马政府在处理泄密者方面施行“严重的双重标准”。
The contractor, Stephen J. Kim, had received a 13-month sentence for disclosing classified information to Fox News about North Korea.
军火承包商斯蒂芬·J·基姆(Stephen J. Kim)因为向Fox新闻频道(Fox News)泄露有关朝鲜的机密信息而被判处13个月的监禁。
Mr. Petraeus had been a vocal advocate for government officials closely protecting classified information.
彼得雷乌斯一直明确支持严密保护机密信息的政府官员。