As vice president, Dick Cheney was the most enthusiastic sponsor for the brutal CIA interrogation program used on al-Qaida suspects, protesting when President George W. Bush scaled it back in his second term.
迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)担任美国副总统期间，一直大力支持中央情报局(CIA)对基地组织嫌疑人采用残忍的审讯手段。当乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)在其第二个任期中减少对这些手段的使用时，切尼进行了抗议。
Now that a Senate Intelligence Committee report has declared that the CIA's methods, later prohibited, violated American values and produced little or no useful intelligence, Cheney is fiercely defending not just the agency's record, but his own as well.
如今参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)的报告宣称，那些后来遭到禁止的CIA审讯方法背离了美国的价值观，而且获取的有用情报非常稀少，或者根本没有。这时候，切尼不仅为CIA的做法、也为自己的立场进行了顽强辩护。
“I would do it again in a minute,” Cheney said in a spirited, emotional appearance Sunday on NBC's “Meet the Press.” He denied that waterboarding and related interrogation tactics were torture, noting that three of the last four attorneys general have agreed with his view.
“我会毫不犹豫地再次那么做，”在刚刚过去的周日，切尼在NBC电视台《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目中情绪激昂地表示。他否认水刑及类似审讯手段属于酷刑，并指出，最近的四任司法部长中，有三名赞同他的看法。
“Torture is what the al-Qaida terrorists did to 3,000 Americans on 9/11,” Cheney said in his latest interview defending the CIA program. “There is no comparison between that and what we did with respect to enhanced interrogation.”
“基地组织恐怖分子在9·11袭击中对3000美国民众做的事情才叫酷刑，”切尼说。“我们的加强型审讯技巧和那不可同日而语。”这是他最近一次接受采访为CIA的做法进行辩护。
The NBC host, Chuck Todd, pressed Cheney on what might constitute torture, reading actual episodes from the Senate report: Holding a prisoner in a coffin-sized box for 11 days? Handcuffing a prisoner's wrists to an overhead bar for 22 hours a day? But Cheney gave no ground.
NBC主持人查克·托德(Chuck Todd)念了参议院报告中的一些真实案例，并追问切尼哪些可算作酷刑：把囚徒关在一个棺材大小的箱子里长达11天？每天22小时用手铐将囚徒的手腕栓到头顶的杆子上？不过，切尼没有表现出任何退让。
“I can't tell from that specifically whether it was or not,” he replied.
“我无法从中分辨出它到底是不是酷刑，”他回答。
He even declined to criticize CIA practices used on prisoners called “rectal feeding” and “rectal rehydration,” though he noted that “it was not one of the techniques approved” by the Justice Department.
就连CIA对囚犯采取的“直肠进食”和“直肠补水”做法，他也拒绝予以批评，尽管他指出，“这不属于”司法部“批准的手段”。
“I believe it was done for medical reasons,” he said. The Senate report suggests that it was largely used without medical orders to punish prisoners who refused water or food.
“我相信那是出于医疗因素，”他说。然而，参议院的报告表明，这种方法大多数时候都是在没有医嘱的情况下采用的，目的是惩罚那些拒绝饮水或进食的在押人员。
In a sense, Cheney is continuing a fight that began inside the Bush administration, defending his own role in the first Bush term against the retreat from the most aggressive methods in the second term.
从某种意义上说，切尼仍在继续进行开始于布什政府内部的一场斗争。他为自己在布什第一个任期中发挥的作用做辩护，并且对布什第二个任期放弃那些最严苛的方法发出了抗议。
At 73, nearly three years after a heart transplant, Cheney clearly feels his own legacy is at stake.
切尼现年73岁，大约三年前做了心脏移植手术。他显然觉得自己的政治遗产岌岌可危。
In the early months after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, former President George W. Bush delegated the detailed oversight of the campaign against al-Qaida to his vice president, who embraced the task and urged the harshest measures. Cheney had long believed that restrictions placed on the intelligence agencies after scandals in the late 1970s were ill-advised, and he relished the chance to take the restraints off of the CIA.
2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击发生后，最初几个月刚过去，时任总统乔治·W·布什就授权自己的副手具体监督抗击基地组织的活动。切尼欣然接受了这个任务，并敦促手下采取最严厉的措施。切尼一直认定，在20世纪70年代末情报机构发生丑闻后，对它们施加的限制是不明智的，他也很高兴获得了机会来解除对CIA的束缚。
Cheney may be running some political risk. For some viewers, his gloves-off comments on “Meet the Press” may recall his many appearances being interviewed on Sunday morning television shows in late 2002 and early 2003 before the invasion of Iraq.
切尼可能会面临一些政治风险。他在《会见媒体》节目上发表的毫不客气的意见，或许会让一些观众回忆起，2002年底和2003年初，在美军出兵伊拉克之前，他多次在周日早间的电视节目上露面，接受采访。
At that time, he repeatedly asserted that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction and ties to al-Qaida, claims that turned out to be false. He also made a famously inaccurate prediction on the same show, “Meet the Press,” on March 16, 2003, that U.S. troops would be “greeted as liberators.”
在那个时候，他一再声称萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有大规模杀伤性武器，并和基地组织有联系。这些说法后来被证明是不真实的。2003年3月16日，同样是在《会见媒体》节目上，他发表了一个很著名的错误预测：美国军队将被“当作解放者受到欢迎”。
But that experience has not deterred him. In the wake of the Senate report, he has only stepped up his defense of the CIA, deciding that the best defense is a relentless offense.
但这些经历并没有阻止他坚持立场。在参议院发布那份报告后，他更加积极地为CIA做辩护，似乎认为最好的防御就是不懈地进攻。
Cheney was also asked Sunday to answer questions about detainees who had faced lengthy incarceration, and sometimes harsh treatment, even though the CIA concluded they posed no terrorist threat or had been imprisoned by mistake. The Senate report counts at least 26 such “wrongfully detained” prisoners among the 119 detainees who passed through the CIA secret overseas jails.
周日，切尼还被问及与某一类被拘者有关的问题。这些人经历了漫长的监禁，有时还遭到苛刻的对待，然而CIA最后认定他们并不构成恐怖威胁，或者干脆是错误地遭到了关押。参议院的报告显示，在CIA的海外秘密监狱中关押的119名囚徒中，至少有26人遭到了“错误羁押”。
The former vice president responded that, in his mind, the greater problem was “with the folks that we did release that end up back on the battlefield.”
前副总统回应说，在他心中，更大的问题是“我们释放的一些人，最终回到了战场上。”
Asked again whether he was satisfied with a program that erroneously locked up detainees, he replied, “I have no problem as long as we achieve our objective.”
当被问及他对一个关错人的项目是否感到满意时，他回答，“只要我们达成了目标，我就没有意见。”
The Senate committee's report makes the case that the wrongful detentions and use of torture were actually counterproductive, citing CIA officers' own views that harsh tactics had “poisoned the well” in questioning some prisoners.
参议院情报委员会的报告认为，错误羁押和使用酷刑实际上适得其反。文中援引了部分CIA探员自己的看法，称严苛手段“彻底破坏了”一些在押人员的审讯工作。
The report's conclusions might have been expected to offer vindication to another Republican stalwart, Sen. John McCain, who has long been the leading voice denouncing torture and countering Cheney on the interrogation question.
报告的结论恐怕支持了另一位共和党中坚——参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)——的看法。麦凯恩一直强烈谴责施加酷刑的做法，并反驳切尼在刑讯逼供问题上的论调。
But the torture issue has split Congress and the country largely on partisan lines, and McCain's commentary on CBS's “Face the Nation” on Sunday, where he was asked about Cheney's remarks, underscored how lonely his position has become in the Republican Party.
不过，国会和美国民众在酷刑问题上看法分歧很大，而且立场基本上按党派划分。麦凯恩周日在CBS电视台的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)中接受采访，当被问到切尼的言论时，他的回答突显了自己的立场在共和党内部多么势单力薄。
The Senate report was produced solely by the intelligence committee's Democratic staff members, after the Republicans decided to stop participating, and Republicans have almost universally panned it as a biased and flawed study, noting that its authors relied exclusively on documents and did not interview CIA officials.
参议院这份报告，是在共和党决定不再参与之后，由情报委员会的民主党议员手下的工作人员单独撰写的。共和党人几乎普遍对其大加鞭挞，宣称这是一项偏颇的、有缺陷的研究，并指出其撰写者完全依靠文件材料，却没有采访CIA官员。
Unlike nearly every other politician in the debate, McCain has personal experience with the topic: as a downed Navy pilot, he was tortured by his North Vietnamese captors as a prisoner of war, an experience that left him with the deep conviction that the United States should never use such tactics. Cheney, by contrast, received four deferments as a student and a fifth as a new father and never served.
和这场辩论中几乎其他所有政界人士不一样的是，麦凯恩在这方面有过亲身经历：他曾是海军飞行员，战机被击落后成为北越俘虏，遭到了酷刑折磨，因此他秉持着深刻的信念——美国决不应该采用这样的做法。相比之下，切尼因为读书四次暂缓服役，孩子诞生后不久又第五次暂缓，一生中从未服过兵役。