In April, Bruce Jenner spoke about her transition to being a woman in a television special that drew nearly 17 million viewers.
布鲁斯·詹纳(Bruce Jenner)今年4月在电视节目上讲述了自己准备转渡为女人的经历。那场特别报道吸引了将近1700万观众。
On Monday, that woman revealed her new identity, appearing as Caitlyn Jenner on the cover of Vanity Fair. The photograph of Ms. Jenner in a corset, shot by Annie Leibovitz and accompanied by the headline “Call Me Caitlyn,” immediately became a sensation on social media when the magazine posted the article online.
周一，她披露了自己的新身份，用凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)这个名字出现在了《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)的封面上。杂志刚把封面文章发上网，詹纳身着紧身胸衣的照片便在社交媒体上造成了轰动。照片出自安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)之手，配的标题是《请叫我凯特琳》(Call Me Caitlyn)。
Ms. Jenner, 65, who won an Olympic gold medal in the decathlon, has had a long public life. As Bruce Jenner, she had been on the cover of Playgirl, an author, an actor and most recently a part of the Kardashian family’s reality television empire. Earlier this year, reports emerged that Bruce Jenner was in the process of becoming a woman.
现年65岁的詹纳是奥运会十项全能项目的金牌得主，长期以来一直频繁出现在公众视野中。名叫布鲁斯·詹纳的时候，其人上过《花花女郎》杂志(Playgirl)的封面，当过作家、演员，近年来又成了卡戴珊家族电视真人秀帝国的一份子。今年早些时候，有报道称，布鲁斯·詹纳正处于变为女人的过程中。
The Vanity Fair article represents the latest in a carefully calibrated series of public steps by Ms. Jenner and her team, as she moves toward the debut of a new reality show on the E! network that will begin at the end of July, and a new public life as a woman. A Twitter account, in the name of Caitlyn Jenner, was started at the same time that the Vanity Fair article was published online. Within hours, the account had more than 1.1 million followers.
在一档以詹纳为主角的真人秀即将开播之际，詹纳及其团队精心策划了一系列公关举措，而登上《名利场》封面是其中最新的一项。E!电视网的这档新节目计划于7月底首映，届时，詹纳将以女性身份开启自己公众生活的新旅程。《名利场》把这篇封面文章发到网上的同时，一个名为“凯特琳·詹纳”的Twitter账号诞生了。几个小时之内，该账号的关注人数就突破了110万。
When asked about the perception from some that the article was part of an orchestrated campaign by Ms. Jenner, Vanity Fair’s editor, Graydon Carter, said that “all stories are part of some coordinated rollout, all stories everywhere,” citing movie releases and even presidential campaigns.
有人认为《名利场》的文章是詹纳精心策划的宣传攻势的组成部分。当被问及对此有何看法时，杂志主编格雷顿·卡特(Graydon Carter)说，“世界上所有地方的所有故事，都是策划好的推广活动的一部分”，他还举出了电影发布乃至总统竞选的例子。
The article was written by Buzz Bissinger, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter and the author of the acclaimed book “Friday Night Lights,” about a high school football team in Texas. The magazine had first thought of running an article on Ms. Jenner last year, a spokeswoman said, but it began taking shape this year when a publicist for Ms. Jenner contacted an editor at Vanity Fair.
文章作者巴兹·贝辛格(Buzz Bissinger)得过普利策新闻奖，还出过一本广受好评的书《胜利之光》(Friday Night Lights)，其中讲的是德克萨斯州的一支高中橄榄球队的故事。《名利场》的女发言人称，杂志去年就想写一篇关于詹纳的文章，但直到今年詹纳的公关人员联系了杂志社的一位编辑，事情才有了眉目。
A truly news-making magazine cover story has become increasingly rare in the digital age, though Mr. Carter said that the covers of magazines remain cultural touchstones. (The online rollout of the article seemed to tacitly acknowledge that rarity; the physical copy of the magazine with Ms. Jenner on the cover won’t be available at newsstands until June 9. The online version of the article could be purchased for $4.99, and the website had broken its traffic record in just a few hours, with more than 6 million unique visitors.)
在数字化时代，真正有新闻价值的杂志封面故事已经变得越来越稀缺了，不过卡特表示，杂志封面依然在文化上具备点石成金的作用。（这篇文章的网络推广，似乎可以被解读为对这种稀缺性的默认；以詹纳为封面人物的纸质杂志要到6月9日才能出现在报摊上。读者可以花4.99美元购买这篇文章的网络版。仅仅几个小时之内，名利场网站的独立访客数就突破了600万，创下了历史新高。）
Vanity Fair went to extraordinary lengths to keep its scoop a secret, a spokeswoman said.
《名利场》的发言人表示，杂志用尽了各种办法来为这篇独家报道保密。
Only a few people at the magazine knew about the article. It was held on a computer that was kept in a locked office and not connected to the magazine’s server. There was security at the photo shoot and at the plant where the magazine is printed.
杂志社里只有几个人知道这篇文章。存放它的电脑被锁在一间办公室里，没跟杂志社的服务器连接。摄影棚和印刷厂内都有保安看守。
Mr. Bissinger said in a telephone interview that he was assigned to write the article because “of the sports connection, and my own journey into the world of cross-dressing,” referring to a revealing article he wrote for GQ magazine in 2013 in which he detailed his fondness for designer clothing intended for both genders.
贝辛格接受电话采访时表示，他之所以被派去写这篇文章，是因为“跟体育界的渊源，以及在变装世界里的亲身经历。”后者指的是他在2013年写给《GQ》杂志的一篇袒露内心的文章，里面详细描述了他对既适合男性又适合女性的品牌服装的喜爱。
He first met with Ms. Jenner in February, he said, and was allowed “pretty much carte blanche to be there, to soak him up, to have access to other people in his life,” he said. “It was the kind of journalism you don’t see any more.” Mr. Carter said the magazine was not forced to leave any details out.
他说自己在2月份首次见到了詹纳， 并且得以“几乎不受任何限制地待在那儿，了解他的一切，接触他生活中的其他人。现在已经看不到这种做新闻的方式了。”按照卡特的说法，《名利场》杂志没被对方要求删除任何细节。
Mr. Bissinger, who describes himself in the article as “a cross-dresser with a big-time fetish for women’s leather,” wrote that he spent hundreds of hours with Ms. Jenner over three months, and that it was an occasionally surreal experience.
贝辛格在文中自称“极度迷恋女式皮衣的异装者”。他写道，前后三个多月的时间里，他和詹纳在一起待了几百个小时，期间不时体会到离奇的感觉。
Ms. Jenner had started to make the transition in the 1980s, the Vanity Fair article reveals, shortly after winning the gold medal at the Montreal Olympics in 1976. Even as she traveled the United States, making speeches and starring in commercials, she wore pantyhose and a bra underneath her suit. She stopped, fearful of the public reaction, but began again recently when her marriage to Kris Jenner, the matriarch of the Kardashians, ended.
据《名利场》的文章披露，早在上世纪80年代，也就是赢得1976年蒙特利尔奥运会金牌后不久，詹纳就开始进行跨性别转渡。即使是在美国各地发表演讲或者拍广告片时，詹纳也会在西服里面穿上连裤袜和文胸。她曾经因为害怕公众的反应而停下脚步，但最近，和卡戴珊家族女掌门克丽丝·詹纳(Kris Jenner)的婚姻宣告破裂后，她又重新开启了自己的变身之旅。
“If I was lying on my deathbed and I had kept this secret and never did anything about it, I would be lying there saying, ‘You just blew your entire life,’ ” she told Mr. Bissinger. Bruce Jenner was always lying, she said; Caitlyn can be honest.
她告诉贝辛格，“如果我一直保守着这个秘密，从未做过任何努力，那么等到将死之时，我只能躺在那里感叹，‘你毁了自己的一生。’”布鲁斯·詹纳总是在撒谎，她说，但凯特琳却可以很诚实。
“Is she doing a TV show? Sure,” Mr. Bissinger said. “Is she doing it for money personally? Sure. This is America. But I saw a person transformed into a woman, who is joyous and happy and free and living life in a way that Bruce Jenner never did.”
“她在做一档电视节目吗？当然，”贝辛格说。“她做节目是为了给自己赚钱吗？当然。这里是美国。但我看到的是，变为女性后，她成了一个快乐、幸福、自由的人，过着布鲁斯·詹纳从来没有体验过的生活。”