The monthlong, 32-country soccer tournament known as the World Cup kicks off on June 12 in Brazil. And guess where the most tickets have been sold, outside of Brazil that is? Defying all logic, it’s the United States, the only country in the world you have to start an article about the World Cup by explaining what it is, when it starts and where it’s being played.
世界杯就是一个长达一个月，有32个国家参加的足球比赛，6月12日就要在巴西召开了。除了东道主巴西，你猜球票在哪个国家卖出最多？非常不合逻辑的是，这个国家竟然是美国。当你写一篇关于世界杯的文章时，它是全世界唯一一个你在文章开头还得解释清楚什么是世界杯、交代举办时间和地点的国家。
So since many of you are apparently going, and because Brazil — even under normal circumstances — is one of the most expensive places in the Western Hemisphere, I’ve compiled some country-specific money-saving strategies. They come both from friends in Brazil and my many travels around the country, which includes 11 of the 12 host cities. (You can find links to my past stories on those cities and the areas surrounding them here.)
所以，既然有很多人显然打算去，而且巴西即便在正常情况下也是西半球最昂贵的地方，我编纂了一些这个国家的省钱攻略。有的是来自在巴西的朋友，有的是来自我在那个国家多次旅游的经历。世界杯比赛的12个主办城市里，我去过其中11个，你可以通过网站连接找到我以前写过的关于这些城市及周边地区的文章。
Flying? Book Direct
坐飞机？直接订票
Stating the obvious, Brazil is a big place, so fans following their own national teams will have to fly around the country; in the first round every side plays three games in three different cities, and no one knows where (or if) their team will be playing after that. But familiar sites like Kayak, Expedia and Skyscanner stumble when booking flights within Brazil, sometimes badly. In fact, I checked all the major sites I could think of, and not a single one listed flights for all four Brazilian airlines that serve the 12 host cities: Gol, TAM, Azul and Avianca Brazil. There’s also Passaredo, which serves five of the cities. Your best bet is to check them all individually and compare options.
显然，巴西是个很大的国家，所以球迷要追随国家队比赛就得在这个国家飞来飞去；第一轮小组赛中，每个国家要在在三个不同城市踢三场比赛，没有人知道自己支持的球队能不能小组出线，能出线的话又在什么地方比赛。我们熟悉的Kayak、Expecia和Skyscanner这样的订票网站在巴西的订票服务不太顺畅，有时候很糟糕。事实上，我查看了能想到的所有大订票网站，没有一个网站列出巴西四大航空公司（Gol、TAM、Azul和Avianca巴西）在12个主办城市之间的所有航班。此外还有一个公司叫Passaredo，它在其中五个城市之间飞行。你最好分别查询各公司的航班，然后进行比较。
For example, I’ve got a ticket to the United States-Ghana game in Natal on June 16. The next day, I need to fly to São Paulo. This past weekend, the best option on Kayak was a nonstop Gol flight for $461 — but at 2:50 a.m. Skyscanner came up with some one-stop afternoon options on Azul for $298. But none found the one I ended up buying from the Avianca Brazil website, an evening nonstop for $189.
比方说，我买了6月16日美国队对加纳队在纳特尔比赛的球票。第二天我又得飞往圣保罗。上周末，我在Kayak网站上能找到的最佳选择是Gol公司的直飞航班，机票售价461美元，但时间是凌晨2：50起飞。Skyscanner网站有Azul公司的下午直飞航班，机票价格298美元。但没有人能找到我最终在Avianca巴西网站上找到的机票——晚间起飞的直飞航班，售价189美元。
And even when flights do appear, they can be more expensive than booking direct. Fans following the United States team will need to fly from Manaus (where they play Portugal on June 22) to Recife (Germany, June 26). On June 24, the same one-stop itinerary on Gol cost $402 on Kayak but $305 booked directly.
就算订票网站上有航班，也比直接从航空公司订票贵。跟随美国队的球迷得从马瑙斯（6月22日，这里有葡萄牙的比赛）出发，来到累西腓（6月26日有德国队比赛）。在Kayak网站上，6月24日Gol的直飞航班要花402美元，但直接从航空公司订票只需305美元。
Consider Buses
考虑乘坐巴士
Some routes will requires a flight, but for shorter legs, intercity buses might do the trick. They are generally modern and comfortable, and pit stops offer hearty, healthy meals — at least compared with the fast-food courts that dominate American highways. The challenge is figuring out how to reserve and book. You can usually find the right companies through a web search (“Salvador Fortaleza bus”), but some sites don’t have English versions, and foreign credit cards may not work for transactions. Also, beware sites like BrazilByBus.com, a metasearch site that hikes up prices significantly, at least in my tests. The surest bets are to ask for help from hosts and hotels, or to buy at the bus station.
有些路线需要坐飞机，但也有些短途旅行，坐城际大巴就行了。它们一般都很现代化，很舒适，停车加油站会提供丰盛健康的食品，至少比美国高速公路上的大多数快餐好。问题是怎样订票。一般可以在网上找到合适的公司，比如“萨尔瓦多·福塔雷萨大巴”，但有些公司的网站没有英文版，也不接受外国信用卡。此外也要当心BrazilByBus.com之类搜索网站，它们可能会大幅提价，至少我测试的结果是如此。最有把握的办法是让房东或酒店帮忙订票，或者到汽车站买票。
Pack Heavy...
多带行李……
Are you the kind of traveler who brags about packing light, arguing that if you really need something, you can buy it when you arrive? Bad idea for World Cup time. Just about everything in Brazil is extremely expensive, from bottles of sunscreen to forgotten chargers to extra underwear. Also, don’t bring just a couple of outfits, especially if you are visiting multiple cities. Temperatures will vary drastically: Australia, for example, plays its first game in Cuiabá, highs in the 90s, and its second in Porto Alegre, lows in the 40s. São Paulo and Curitiba will also be cold, and will feel colder since many buildings do not have heating systems. So, pack a sweater alongside your bikini. And while you’re at it, bring some snacks, as even food prices are outrageous these days.
你是那种喜欢轻装上阵，觉得需要什么到时候再买的那种旅行者吗？在世界杯期间，这可不是什么好主意。在巴西，什么东西都特别贵，从瓶装防晒霜到总是忘带的充电器，乃至替换内裤都是如此。另外不要只带两身替换衣服，假如你想去多个城市，就更要多带衣服。温度变化非常剧烈，比方说，澳大利亚第一场比赛是在库亚巴，那里最高温度达到90华氏度（合32摄氏度——译注），第二场比赛是在阿雷格里港，最低温度是40华氏度（4摄氏度——译注）。圣保罗和库里提巴也很冷，有些场馆没有暖气系统，所以就更冷。所以，要带毛衣，也要带比基尼。另外再带点小点心，在世界杯期间，就连食品价格也贵得离谱。
The good news? Flights to and within Brazil almost always allow a free checked bag up to 50 pounds. And don’t complain about waiting for your bag: If you can’t handle a few extra minutes at the baggage carousel, you probably don’t have the patience to be in Brazil at all.
至于说好消息？在巴西国内飞行可以托运携带50磅重（合22.6公斤——译注）的行李。不要因为等待行李的时间太长而抱怨：如果你连在行李分拣处多等几分钟都受不了，那你可能根本就没有在巴西呆着的耐心。
...But Walk Light
……但是要轻装出行
I’ll leave it to others to tell you how handle muggers in Brazil’s high-crime cities. But purely as a budgetary matter, you should realize that whatever you walk out of your hotel with might not come back. I typically go out in Brazil with one credit card, a wad of cash and my phone, which I don’t use on the street. (At least, that is, since last year, when a kid on a bicycle swiped my new iPhone 5. A friend had sunglasses stolen in a similar manner.) A contradictory side note: many ATMs won’t accept your United States bank card, so when you find one that does, withdraw the maximum.
我打算让别人来告诉你该怎么应付巴西那些高犯罪率城市里的抢劫犯。但是纯粹从预算角度出发，你应该了解到，任何你从酒店带出去的东西最后都有可能回不来。在巴西，我出门一般带一张信用卡，一卷现钞和手机，而且我不会在街头打手机（至少是从去年一个骑自行车的小孩抢走了我的新iPhone 5之后。有个朋友的太阳镜也是这么丢的）。但是与此相矛盾的是，许多ATM机都不接受美国的银行卡，所以当你遇到能读美国银行卡的机器，就尽量提取最高限额吧。
Tip: Don’t Tip
小贴士：没有小费
Brazilians don’t tip much — not because they are mean people; in fact, they are probably much nicer than you. In restaurants, a 10 percent service charge is added automatically, and there’s no place on a credit card receipt to add a tip. The same is true in bars, where paying by the drink at the bar is practically nonexistent. (You’ll either have a waiter or accumulate a tab to be paid at a cashier.) In taxis, you round up to the next real, but that’s just for convenience’s sake — making change is not a Brazilian forte. The only exception is in upper-end hotels, where international norms of tipping bellhops and housekeepers still apply.
巴西人给的小费不多，但他们并不是吝啬的人；事实上，他们很可能比你还慷慨。在饭馆，10%的服务费用是自动加到账单里去的，信用卡收据里没有小费一项。在酒吧也是一样，在酒吧里，不是按所点的饮料付钱，而是会有侍者结账，或者在出纳那里结算总账单。坐出租车时，你要把零头进位到整数付钱——不过这只是为了方便，找钱可不是巴西人的强项。只有在高端酒店是例外，国际通行的给侍者和服务员小费的做法仍然适用。
Paying by the Kilo? Skip the Rice.
去本土小馆？别吃米饭
One of the greatest budget institutions in Brazil is the “self-service” or “kilo” restaurant. You fill a plate from a buffet, which almost always includes a salad bar and multiple entrees. It’s a good deal, especially for foreigners. That’s because most Brazilians cannot envision a meal without a pile of rice and beans, which are heavy and cheap and thus drive up the final tab. Go easy on them for even more of a bargain.
巴西最物美价廉的地方就是所谓“自助”或“公斤”饭馆（按重量结算的饭馆——译注）。自助餐总会有一个沙拉吧和许多主菜，你可以盛上一大盘。这很划算，特别是对于外国人来说。大多数巴西人无法想像一顿饭没有米饭和豆子，它们分量重，划不来，最后结账不便宜。所以这种东西少吃点更划算。
Drink Beer
喝啤酒
Congratulations! You’ve already saved on beer. The Brazilian government decided last week to postpone an increase in the tax on beer (and some other beverages) from June 1 to Sept. 1. You may have heard that the Brazilian national beverage is the caipirinha, but in fact Brazilians drink far more beer, which is cheaper and ubiquitous. You can often buy it in the street, which will save you money over bars and stadiums. Prices will often be posted (latinha means a 12-ounce can; latão, 16 ounces) but if they’re not, be sure you don’t pay more than Brazilians.
恭喜！你可以在啤酒上省钱了。上周巴西政府决定在6月1日至9月1日期间对啤酒（以及若干其他饮料）不加税。你可能听说过巴西的国民饮料是凯匹林纳鸡尾酒，但事实上巴西人还是喝啤酒更多，它更便宜，到处都是。你可以在街头买啤酒，比在酒吧或体育场买便宜。价格通常会贴在外面（“latinha”的意思是12盎司装的罐子，“latão”是16盎司装的罐子），但如果外面没有贴价钱，要确保他们不会因为你是外国人就多收钱。
Switch to T-Mobile
换成T-Mobile
If you’re planning to use your smartphone during the World Cup and don’t want to be tethered to sketchy hotel Wi-Fi, consider T-Mobile’s contract-free plans, which now come with free international data and text messaging in over 120 countries, plus 20-cents-a-minute international calls. (You have to buy a new phone, but they’ll refund the early termination fee from your old carrier.) The catch: They guarantee only 2G data service abroad, slower than 3G and much slower than the 4G many of us are used to. But I recently spent three weeks in Brazil, in three states, and got consistent 3G connections, slow but steady. And all that free texting and cheap calling means no more worries about staying in touch with family back home. Just remember not to do it on the street.
如果你想在世界杯期间使用智能手机，并且不想只用酒店不靠谱的Wi-Fi，那就考虑T-Mobile运营商的无合约机吧，现在它支持在120个国家内的免费国际信息和短信，再加每分钟20美分的国际长途（你得买一部新手机，但它们会把与之前的运营商提早终止合同的费用返还给你）。问题是，它们只提供2G的海外数据服务，比3G要慢，我们很多人已经习惯了4G，所以就更慢了。但我最近在巴西呆了三个星期，走了三个州，都有3G连接，虽然慢但很稳定。免费短信和便宜的长途电话可以让你和家里随时保持联系。只是要记住，不要在街上用手机。