A former American soccer official linked to the FIFA corruption scandal admitted that he and others on the organization’s executive committee had accepted bribes for their support in the bidding to host the 1998 and 2010 World Cups, according to papers filed in the official’s criminal case and released on Wednesday.
相关刑事案件涉及的文件显示，一名陷入国际足联(FIFA)腐败丑闻的前美国足球官员承认，他和该组织执行委员会的其他官员在1998年和2010年世界杯的申办阶段收受了贿赂，并据此提供了自己的支持。这些文件于周三公之于众。
The official, Chuck Blazer, made the admission when he pleaded guilty in 2013 to charges that included racketeering, wire fraud, money laundering and income tax evasion.
上述官员查克·布莱泽(Chuck Blazer)于2013年在对敲诈勒索、电信欺诈、洗钱及逃避个税等指控表示认罪时，做出了上述交代。
“Among other things, I agreed with other persons in or around 1992 to facilitate the acceptance of a bribe in conjunction with the selection of the host nation for the 1998 World Cup,” Mr. Blazer told Judge Raymond J. Dearie when he pleaded guilty in 2013.
“此外，在1992年前后，我和其他人同意帮助收受贿赂，联手操控选择1998年世界杯主办国的过程。”布莱泽2013年认罪时，对雷蒙德·J·迪尔里(Raymond J. Dearie)法官表示。
Other papers filed in the case say that it was the Morocco bid committee that bribed Mr. Blazer. He also said that “I and others on the FIFA executive committee agreed to accept bribes in conjunction with the selection of South Africa as the host nation for the 2010 World Cup,” and that he “and others agreed to accept bribes and kickbacks in conjunction with the broadcast and other rights” to several Gold Cups, a regional championship in which the United States competes.
该案涉及的其他文件显示，贿赂布莱泽的是摩洛哥申办委员会。布莱泽还表示，“我和国际足联执行委员会的其他官员同意接受贿赂，推选南非成为2010年世界杯主办国，”而且他和“其他官员同意接受贿赂和回扣，协力掌控几届金杯赛(Gold Cups)的电视转播权及其他权利”。这项赛事是一项地区性锦标赛，美国也有参加。
Facing up to 20 years in prison, Mr. Blazer became a cooperating witness, according to law enforcement officials, though in the redacted version of the plea hearing filed Wednesday, there were no references to Mr. Blazer’s cooperating with the government. However, law enforcement officials said that part of Mr. Blazer’s cooperation deal included secretly recording conversations.
执法官员表示，布莱泽同意成为污点证人，以逃避最高20年的牢狱之灾，但在周三提交的经过删节的认罪听证会文件并没有提到布莱泽与政府的合作协议。然而，执法官员表示，布莱泽的合作协议内容包括对一些谈话进行秘密录音。
There are at least two other cooperating witnesses in the FIFA case that suggest the kind of agreement Mr. Blazer may have struck: Daryan and Daryll Warner. They are sons of Jack Warner, the former president of Concacaf, the soccer governing body overseeing North American, Central American and the Caribbean. Mr. Blazer, a friend of Mr. Warner’s, was Concacaf’s general secretary from 1990 until 2011.
国际足联的案件至少还涉及其他两名污点证人：德里恩·沃纳(Dryan Warner)和达里尔·沃纳(Daryll Warner)，他们有可能达成了与布莱泽类似的协议。这两人是前中北美和加勒比地区足联(Concacaf)主席杰克·沃纳(Jack Warner)之子，该足球管理机构负责中北美洲及加勒比地区的足球事宜。布莱泽与沃纳早有交情，在1990年至2011年间担任Concacaf的秘书长。
When each of the Warner sons pleaded guilty in 2013, the judge outlined their cooperation agreements with the government: They agreed to participate in undercover activities, hand over documents, regularly meet with prosecutors, testify when requested, and not divulge their cooperation to anyone without the express permission of prosecutors.
当沃纳兄弟于2013年认罪时，法官概述了他们与政府的合作协议：他们同意参与秘密活动、交出文件、定期与检察官会面、必要时出庭作证，在没有获得检察官的明确许可下，不对任何人泄露合作协议。
In return, prosecutors said, they would file a letter at sentencing noting each defendant’s cooperation and asking for a departure from sentencing guidelines. Prosecutors often suggest little or no prison time in return for cooperation. For Daryan Warner, prosecutors also said they would suggest he receive an S-Visa, or an informant green card.
检查官表示，作为回报，他们将在法官做判决时递交一封信件，说明每名被告的合作情况，并请求法官偏离量刑指南。检察官通常会建议从轻量刑或免除刑责，以作为他们配合工作的回报。对于德里恩·沃纳，检察官还表示他们会建议给他发放S签证，即针对线人的绿卡。