The former Supreme Court justice and author of “Five Chiefs: A Supreme Court Memoir” and, most recently, “Six Amendments: How and Why We Should Change the Constitution,” feels indebted to Norman Maclean, who taught him poetry at the University of Chicago.
前最高法院法官、《五位首席大法官：最高法院回忆录》(Five Chiefs: A Supreme Court Memoir)以及最新的《六个修正案：我们如何以及为何必须修改宪法》(Six Amendments: How and Why We Should Change the Constitution)的作者对在芝加哥大学教他诗歌的诺曼·麦克莱恩(Norman Maclean)有感恩之情。
What books are currently on your night stand? 
你的床头柜上现在放着哪些书？
“The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism,” by Doris Kearns Goodwin.
多丽丝·卡恩斯·古德温(Doris Kearns Goodwin)的《最佳讲坛：西奥多·罗斯福，威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱和新闻业的黄金时代》(The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism)。
Who is your favorite novelist of all time? And your favorite novelist writing today?
古往今来所有小说家中你最喜欢的是哪一位？现在仍在写作的小说家中你最喜欢的是哪一位？
Leo Tolstoy for all time; Edward Rutherfurd or Ruth Rendell for living authors.
所有的小说家中我最喜欢的是列夫·托尔斯泰(Leo Tolstoy)，在世的作家中我最喜欢的是爱德华·拉瑟弗德(Edward Rutherfurd)或鲁斯·伦德尔(Ruth Rendell)。
What books on the law would you most recommend to the general reader? And to a student of law?
对普通读者，你最推荐的法律书籍是哪些？对法律专业的学生，你最推荐的又是哪些？
Ken Manaster’s “The American Legal System and Civic Engagement” to the general reader; Leon Green’s “Judge and Jury” for law students.
对普通读者，我推荐肯恩·马纳斯特(Ken Manaster)的《美国法律体系和公民参与》(The American Legal System and Civic Engagement)；对法律专业的学生，我推荐利昂·格林(Leon Green)的《法官和陪审团》(Judge and Jury)。
Who are the best people writing about law today?
如今法律书籍写得最好的人是谁？
Probably Stephen Breyer and Richard Posner.
很可能是斯蒂芬·布雷耶(Stephen Breyer)和理查德·波斯纳(Richard Posner)。
What are your literary guilty pleasures? Do you have a favorite genre? 
在文学方面，哪些书籍让你获得了罪恶的快感？有没有哪种体裁是你特别喜欢的？
Writings about the authorship of the plays attributed to William Shakespeare.
那些关于威廉·莎士比亚(William Shakespeare)戏剧的真正作者的书籍。
Which books might we be surprised to find on your bookshelves?
你书架上的哪些书可能让我们感到意外？
The King James edition of the Bible, and mysteries by Georges Simenon.
金·詹姆斯(King James)版本的《圣经》以及乔治斯·西姆农(Georges Simenon)的侦探小说。
What was the last book to make you laugh?
最近让你大笑的是哪本书？
Dave Barry’s report on last year’s news events.
戴夫·巴里(Dave Barry)关于去年新闻事件的报道。
The last book that made you cry?
上一本让你大哭的书是什么？
I don’t remember.
我不记得了。
The last book that made you furious? 
上一本让你愤怒的书是什么？
“Devil in the Grove: Thurgood Marshall, the Groveland Boys, and the Dawn of a New America,” by Gilbert King.
吉尔伯特·金(Gilbert King)的《树林中的魔鬼：瑟古德·马歇尔，林地男孩和新美国的黎明》(Devil in the Grove: Thurgood Marshall, the Groveland Boys, and the Dawn of a New)。
What kind of reader were you as a child? And what were your favorite books? 
你小时候喜欢读书吗？你当时最喜欢的书是什么？
Both of my parents loved books and encouraged my brothers and me to read a great deal. Among my favorites were: “Winnie-the-Pooh”; Louisa May Alcott’s “Little Men” and “Little Women”; Stevenson’s “Treasure Island”; Count Felix von Luckner’s account of his raids on Allied shipping during the First World War; and dozens of books about Tom Swift.
我的父母都很喜欢读书，他们鼓励我和兄弟们读了很多书。我喜欢的有《维尼熊》(Winnie-the-Pooh)；路易莎·梅·阿尔科特(Louisa May Alcott)的《小男人》(Little Men)和《小妇人》(Little Women)；史蒂文森(Stevenson)的《金银岛》(Treasure Island)；菲力克斯·冯·卢克纳伯爵(Count Felix von Luckner)讲述自己“一战”时突袭盟军船只的故事；以及几十本关于汤姆·斯威夫特(Tom Swift)的书。
What were the most influential books you read as a student? 
你学生时代对你影响力最大的书是什么？
Aristotle’s “Poetics.”
亚里士多德(Aristotle)的《诗学》(Poetics)。
Whom do you consider your literary heroes? 
谁是你的文学英雄？
The author of the plays attributed to William Shakespeare; I am also a great fan of A. Conan Doyle.
威廉·莎士比亚戏剧的作者；我也特别喜欢A·柯南·道尔(A. Conan Doyle)。
Which novels have had the most impact on you as a writer? Is there a particular book that made you want to write? 
哪些小说对你当作家的影响最大？有没有哪本书激发了你的写作欲望？
I don’t know what novels may have motivated any of my writing, but the teacher to whom I am most indebted was Norman Maclean, who taught the course in poetry at the University of Chicago.
我不知道哪些小说可能激发了我的写作欲望，但是我最感激的老师是在芝加哥大学教授诗歌课程的诺曼·麦克林(Norman Maclean)。
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be? 
如果你能要求美国总统读一本书，你会选哪本？
“Six Amendments.”
《六个修正案》。
You’re hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited? 
假设你要举办一个文学宴会，你会邀请哪三位作家？
Samuel Clemens, Charles Dickens and the author of the Shakespeare canon. If they decline, I would invite Victor Hugo, Guy de Maupassant and Alphonse Daudet.
塞缪尔·克莱门斯(Samuel Clemens) 、查尔斯·狄更斯(Charles Dickens)和莎士比亚经典作品的作者。如果他们拒绝了，我会邀请维克多·雨果(Victor Hugo)、居伊·德·莫泊桑(Guy de Maupassant)和阿方斯·都德(Alphonse Daudet)。
What kinds of books do you like to read before you go to bed? 
你睡觉前喜欢读什么书？
History.
历史方面的书。
And what kinds of books do you read when you travel? 
你旅行时读哪种书？
Supreme Court opinions.
来自最高法院的意见。
What’s the worst book you’ve ever read? 
你读过的最糟糕的书是什么？
I didn’t finish it and don’t remember it.
我没读完，不记得书名了。
What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet? 
哪些书你还没读过并为此感到难为情？
“Remembrance of Things Past,” by Marcel Proust.
马塞尔·普鲁斯特(Marcel Proust)的《追忆似水年华》(Remembrance of Things Past)。
What do you plan to read next? 
你接下来打算读什么？
Reviews of “Six Amendments.”
《六个修正案》的书评。