Despite Brazil’s sharp slowdown in economic growth, the country has no intention of emulating China’s low-wage model of competitiveness as a way to promote prosperity, former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said Wednesday.
周三，巴西前总统路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)表示，尽管巴西的经济发展急剧放缓，但该国无意模仿中国，将低工资竞争模式作为促进繁荣的方法。
Mr. da Silva, one of Brazil’s most popular and powerful politicians, who presided over a remarkable expansion in the economy and a decline in poverty during his two terms in office that ended in 2011, also said the country sees its future in investing in education and promoting a technologically skilled work force.
他还表示，巴西的未来在于投资教育，培养技术娴熟的劳动力。达席尔瓦曾两任巴西总统，于2011年卸任，是巴西最受欢迎、最具权势的政治人士之一。执政期间，达席尔瓦领导巴西取得了显著的经济发展，减少了贫困。
He spoke in an interview with editors during a visit to The New York Times, where he defended the economic progress made under his administration and the policies of his successor, Dilma Rousseff, whom he mentored. Ms. Rousseff faces re-election in October, but lacks Mr. da Silva’s popularity.
达席尔瓦到访《纽约时报》(The New York Times)，并在接受编辑采访时发表了上述言论。采访当中，他称扬了自己执政期间取得的经济发展，以及继任者迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)推出的政策。他是罗塞夫的导师。罗塞夫将于今年10月进行连任竞选，但她不如达席尔瓦受欢迎。
Mr. da Silva, 68, popularly known as Lula, has been campaigning for Ms. Rousseff, and he predicted she would win.
68岁的达席尔瓦——人们通常称他“卢拉”(Lula)——一直在为罗塞夫助选，并预测她会取得胜利。
Asked to explain Brazil’s inability to attract investment from technology companies in the same way that China does, Mr. da Silva questioned the comparison. While acknowledging that Brazil suffered competitive deficiencies, he said the rise in wages and benefits for Brazilian workers benefited the economy.
被问及巴西为何无法像中国那样吸引技术公司的投资时，达席尔瓦对这个比较提出了质疑。他一方面承认巴西的竞争力不足，一方面又表示，巴西工人工资及福利的增加促进了经济发展。
“We don’t want to be competitive like China is, where there’s no welfare program, where you have no obligation to the workers, pension funds, trade unions, and people earn very low wages,” he said through a translator. “We don’t want that model for us. We’re doing well as we are today.”
 “我们不想以中国的方式提升竞争力，中国没有福利项目，不用对工人负责，没有养老基金，没有工会，人们的工资非常低，”他通过翻译说，“我们不想采用那种模式。按我们自己目前的方式，我们也做得很好。”
During Mr. da Silva’s last year in office, Brazil’s economic growth rate was 7.5 percent, but it has fallen sharply under Ms. Rousseff, partly because of a slowdown in China, which has been a voracious consumer of raw materials from countries like Brazil.
在达席尔瓦执政的最后一年，巴西的经济增长率高达7.5%，但在罗塞夫任内，巴西经济增长率大幅下降，这在一定程度上是因为中国的增长放缓。中国是巴西等国原材料的消费大国。
Mr. da Silva said Brazil aspired to be competitive with the highly industrialized and advanced economies of the United States, Germany and South Korea. He said he was not worried that new global economic uncertainties, including weakness in the other so-called BRICS countries — Russia, India, China and South Africa — would seriously affect Brazil, Latin America’s largest country.
达席尔瓦表示，巴西希望能与美国、德国和韩国等高度工业化的发达经济体竞争。他说自己并不担心全球经济新出现的不确定性，不担心所谓金砖国家(BRICS)其他四国——俄罗斯、印度、中国和南非——的经济疲软会对巴西造成严重影响。巴西是拉美最大的国家。
He also dampened speculation that he might run for president again, possibly if Ms. Rousseff’s re-election campaign falters or maybe even in 2018. Under Brazilian law, a president cannot serve three consecutive terms.
有人猜测，达席尔瓦会在罗塞夫连任竞选胜利无望的情况下再次参选总统，甚或在2018年参选。达席尔瓦否认了这一猜测。巴西的法律规定，总统不能连任三届。
“I don’t even know if I’m going to be alive in 2018,” said Mr. da Silva. “I think I’ve fulfilled my mission.”
“我都不知道自己能不能活到2018年，”达席尔瓦说，“我觉得，我已经完成了自己的使命。”