WASHINGTON — Former President George W. Bush implicitly criticized President Trump on Monday, taking issue with his approach to immigration and the news media, and suggested that any ties between the new president’s team and Russia should be investigated.
华盛顿——周一，前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)含蓄地批评了特朗普总统，反对他对待移民和新闻媒体的方式，并暗示应对新总统团队与俄罗斯之间的任何往来展开调查。
In a television interview to promote a new book of his paintings, Mr. Bush indicated that important questions were raised by reported contacts between Russian officials and Mr. Trump’s associates during last year’s election campaign. Mr. Trump forced out his national security adviser for withholding information about a call with Russia’s ambassador.
布什在宣传自己新画册的电视采访中表示，俄罗斯官员与特朗普身边的人在去年竞选期间的接触引发了一些重要问题。特朗普迫使自己的国家安全顾问辞职，因为后者隐瞒了与俄罗斯大使的通话信息。
“I think we all need answers,” Mr. Bush said on the “Today” show on NBC. He said he would defer to Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, about how such an investigation should be conducted. He is a “really good guy, and an independent thinker,” Mr. Bush said of Mr. Burr, “and if he were to recommend a special prosecutor, then it would have a lot more credibility with me.”
“我想我们都需要知道答案，”布什在NBC频道的《今日秀》节目(Today)上说。他表示，至于这样的调查应该如何进行，他会听从北卡罗来纳州共和党参议员、参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)主席理查德·M·伯尔(Richard M. Burr)的建议。布什提到伯尔时表示，他“真的是一个好人，一位独立的思考者”，“如果他推荐一名特别检察官，我会觉得可信度很高”。
Like other members of his family, Mr. Bush did not support Mr. Trump during last year’s campaign against Hillary Clinton, although in public he largely kept his views to himself. Mr. Bush congratulated Mr. Trump after his victory and attended the inauguration last month, but the interview on Monday made clear that the most recent Republican president still had serious disagreements with his party’s incumbent commander in chief.
和其他家族成员一样，布什在去年特朗普与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选中没有支持特朗普，尽管他在公开场合基本上保留了自己的观点。布什在特朗普获胜后向他表示祝贺，并在上个月出席了他的就职典礼，但周一的采访清楚表明，共和党的这位距今最近的前任总统依然与该党的现任领导人存在严重分歧。
Although he did not mention Mr. Trump by name, Mr. Bush expressed disapproval of the president’s assertion that “fake news media” organizations are the “enemy of the American people.”
虽然布什没提特朗普的名字，但他表示不赞同特朗普总统关于“虚假新闻媒体”机构是“美国人民的敌人”这种说法。
“I consider the media to be indispensable to democracy,” Mr. Bush told Matt Lauer, the “Today” host. “We need the media to hold people like me to account. I mean, power can be very addictive and it can be corrosive and it’s important for the media to call to account people who abuse their power, whether it be here or elsewhere.”
“我认为，对民主来说，新闻媒体必不可少，”布什对《今日秀》主持人马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)说。“我们需要媒体让我这样的人担起责任。我的意思是，权力很容易让人上瘾，它可以是具有侵蚀性的，所以媒体追究那些滥用权力的人的责任很重要，不管在哪里。”
He seemed to suggest that language like Mr. Trump’s made it more difficult to press authoritarian leaders like President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to tolerate a free press. “It’s kind of hard to, you know, tell others to have an independent free press when we’re not willing to have one ourselves,” he said.
他似乎暗示，特朗普那种言论让人们更难迫使俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)这样的独裁领袖容忍新闻自由。“你知道，如果我们自己都不愿拥有独立自由的新闻媒体，那么你就很难说服别人，”他说。
Mr. Bush also urged tolerance when asked about Mr. Trump’s efforts to temporarily ban travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries. As president, Mr. Bush made a point of visiting a mosque after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and regularly insisted that the United States was not at war with Islam.
在被问及特朗普暂时禁止七个以穆斯林为主的国家的公民进入美国的问题时，布什敦促保持宽容。2001年9·11袭击后，布什总统造访了一个清真寺，以表明自己的立场，并经常坚称，美国不是与伊斯兰教开战。
“It’s very important for all of us to recognize one of our great strengths is for people to worship the way they want to or not worship at all,” Mr. Bush said. “I mean the bedrock of our freedom — a bedrock of our freedom is the right to worship freely.”
“非常重要的是，我们所有人都要认识到，我们的一个伟大之处在于，人们可以以自己想要的方式信仰宗教或根本不信教，”布什说，“我的意思是，我们自由的基石——我们自由的一个基石是自由信仰宗教的权利。”
Mr. Bush agreed to give interviews to publicize his book, “Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief’s Tribute to America’s Warriors,” published by Crown Publishing. The book, his third since leaving office, is a collection of 66 portraits of military veterans he has gotten to know personally. It also includes a four-panel mural he painted of several active and former members of the military. The paintings will be displayed at his presidential center in Dallas from March to October.
布什同意接受采访，宣传自己的《勇气的肖像：三军统帅向美国勇士的致敬》(Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief’s Tribute to America’s Warriors)。该画册由皇冠出版社(Crown Publishing)出版，是他离任后的第三本画册，包含他认识的66位老兵的肖像。还包括一幅四联壁画，画的是几位现役和退役军人的肖像。这些画将于今年3月至10月在他的达拉斯总统中心展出。
Mr. Bush picked up painting after leaving office when the historian John Lewis Gaddis mentioned that it was a hobby of Winston Churchill’s. The former president’s initial efforts focused on his pets as subjects. Then he painted a series of portraits of world leaders he met while in office, including Mr. Putin, and displayed them at his center.
布什离任后开始画画，因为史学家约翰·刘易斯·加迪斯(John Lewis Gaddis)提到，这是温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的爱好。这位前总统最初以自己的宠物为创作主题。后来画了一系列他在任时见过的世界领导人的肖像，其中包括普京，并在自己的总统中心展出了画作。