SEOUL, South Korea — When the North Korean state news media on Tuesday published lists of officials newly selected for senior posts, at least one name came as a surprise: Ri Yong-gil, a prominent general.
韩国首尔——当朝鲜官方新闻媒体周二刊登新近当选高级职位的官员名单时，至少有一个名字令外界感到意外：知名将领李永吉(Ri Yong-gil)。
In February, South Korean officials said General Ri had been executed on corruption charges. But according to the North Korean reports Tuesday, he is not only alive but a member of the Central Committee of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, as well as its Central Military Commission.
今年二月，韩国官员称李永吉已因腐败指控被处决。但从朝鲜周二的报道来看，他不仅活着，还兼任朝鲜执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)中央委员会(Central Committee)和中央军事委员会(Central Military Commission)委员。
The appointments were made during the Workers’ Party congress that ended Monday, the first such gathering in 36 years. General Ri was also named an alternate member of the Politburo, according to the reports Tuesday.
这些任命是在周一结束的劳动党全国代表大会上做出的。这是朝鲜36年来首次举行党代会。周二的报道显示，李永吉还被任命为政治局候补委员。
General Ri had been chief of the North Korean Army’s general staff, the third-ranking figure in the army’s hierarchy, when his name abruptly stopped appearing in state media reports in January. In February, South Korean intelligence officials said General Ri had been executed, apparently the latest senior official to fall in a series of purges and executions that the North’s top leader, Kim Jong-un, has used to consolidate power.
李永吉曾任朝鲜军队的总参谋长，是军方的三号人物。但今年一月，他的名字突然在官方媒体的报道中消失。二月，韩国情报官员称李永吉已被处决，并称在朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)用来巩固权力的一系列清洗和处决中，他似乎是最新的一名倒台的高级官员。
Because North Korea rarely publicizes the executions of top officials, most such reports cannot be independently confirmed. And doubts about General Ri’s supposed execution emerged in the weeks that followed. In March, a South Korean cable channel, MBN, reported that General Ri had been demoted, not executed, and that he had been allowed to return to service.
因为朝鲜很少公开对高级官员的处决，这类报道大部分都无法得到独立的确认。接下来几周，对李永吉被处决传闻的怀疑声四起。三月，韩国有线频道MBN报道称李永吉被降职，而非被处决，并称他已获准恢复工作。
Pictures released Tuesday by the North Korean state news media seemed to support that theory. General Ri was shown wearing a three-star rather than a four-star insignia, indicating he had been reduced in rank.
朝鲜官方新闻媒体周二发布的照片似乎支持了上述说法。照片上，李永吉佩戴的是三星而非四星徽章。这表明他的军衔下降了。
South Korean intelligence officials say it is extremely difficult to get reliable information about developments within the North’s opaque government. Officials have disappeared from public view for months at a time, only to resurface later. Early last year, South Korean officials told reporters that Ma Won-chun, a senior general who was in charge of the renovation of the Pyongyang airport, had been purged. But General Ma, it appears, was simply demoted, and he resurfaced later in the year.
韩国情报官员称，朝鲜政府不透明，获得有关政府内部动态的可靠信息极其困难。官员有时会从公众视野中消失数月，后来又露面了。去年年初，韩国官员对记者表示，负责翻修平壤机场的高级将领马元春(Ma Won-chun)遭到清洗。但现在看来，马云春似乎只是被降职。去年晚些时候，他重新露面。