Michael R. Bloomberg, who for months quietly laid the groundwork to run for president as an independent, will not enter the 2016 campaign, he said Monday, citing his fear that a three-way race could lead to the election of a candidate who would imperil the security and stability of the United States: Donald J. Trump.
周一，为独立参选美国总统悄然准备了数月的迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)宣布，他将放弃参与2016年大选，原因是三人竞逐有可能会导致一个会危及美国安全与稳定的人当选，即唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
In a forceful condemnation of his fellow New Yorker, Bloomberg said Trump has run “the most divisive and demagogic presidential campaign I can remember, preying on people's prejudices and fears.” He said he was alarmed by Trump's threats to bar Muslim immigrants from entering the country and to initiate trade wars against China and Japan, and he was disturbed by Trump's “feigning ignorance of David Duke,” the white supremacist leader.
布隆伯格对同为纽约客的特朗普进行了有力的谴责，表示他的“竞选活动是我见过的最能制造分裂和最具煽动性的，它利用的是人们的偏见和恐惧。”他对特朗普威胁要阻止穆斯林移民美国、挑起与中国和日本的贸易战感到担忧，也为他“假装不理会”白人种族优越论头目戴维·杜克(David Duke)而不安。
“These moves would divide us at home and compromise our moral leadership around the world,” Bloomberg said in a column published Monday afternoon on Bloomberg View, his opinion site. “The end result would be to embolden our enemies, threaten the security of our allies, and put our own men and women in uniform at greater risk.”
“这些举动会让我们的国家陷入分裂，也会损害我们在全世界的道德领导力，”布隆伯格在周一发表于他的观点网站“彭博视点”(Bloomberg View)的一篇专栏文章中写道。“最后的结果将是给敌人壮胆，威胁盟友的安全，将美国军人置于更危险的境地。”
The decision by Bloomberg, the former New York mayor who served three terms, ends months of intensive preparation for a candidacy.
做出这一决定，意味着曾担任三届纽约市长的布隆伯格结束了为参选进行的数月的密集准备工作。
Plainly torn between his aspiration to serve as president and a mountain of data showing that the path for an independent campaign aimed at the political center was slim and narrowing, Bloomberg, 74, ultimately abandoned what would probably have been his last chance to run for the White House.
一方面，74岁的布隆伯格渴望成为美国总统，另一方面又有大量数据显示，意在争取政治中间派的独立选战希望日渐渺茫。布隆伯格一直在二者之间纠结徘徊，最终放弃，而这有可能是他有生之年最后一次角逐白宫的机会。
Had both Trump and Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont appeared headed toward victory in the Republican and Democratic presidential primaries, Bloomberg was determined to run, according to his advisers, several of whom insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about confidential discussions.
布隆伯格的幕僚表示，如果特朗普和佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Sen. Bernie Sanders)分别在共和党和民主党初选中胜利在望，他原本会下定决心参选。几位幕僚坚持不具名接受采访，以便坦率地谈论这一机密话题。
But Bloomberg balked at the prospect of a race against Trump and Hillary Clinton, who has established a dominant lead over Sanders on the Democratic side. In his column, Bloomberg said he could not in good conscience enter a race that could lead to a deadlock in the Electoral College — and to the election of Trump, or perhaps Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas.
然而，面对与特朗普和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)对决的前景，他选择了放弃。在民主党初选中，克林顿逐渐确立了对桑德斯的绝对领先优势。布隆伯格在他的专栏文章中表示，他无法心安理得地参加这样一场竞争，因为它有可能会导致大选陷入僵局——并让特朗普或者德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)当选。