TOKYO — A court on the Japanese island of Okinawa sentenced a former United States Marine to life in prison on Friday after convicting him of the rape and murder of a 20-year-old Japanese woman.
东京——上周五，日本冲绳县的一间法庭判处一名前美国海军陆战队队员无期徒刑，他的罪名是强奸和谋杀一名20岁的日本女子。
The former Marine, Kenneth Franklin Shinzato, 33, confessed to raping Rina Shimabukuro and abandoning her body in Uruma, an Okinawa village, in April of last year, Kyodo News reported.
据共同社报道，33岁的前海军陆战队队员肯尼思·弗兰克林·辛扎托(Kenneth Franklin Shinzato)承认在去年4月强奸了岛袋里奈(Rina Shimabukuro)，并在冲绳县宇流麻市抛弃了她的尸体。
At the time of the killing, Mr. Shinzato, who served in the Marines from 2007 to 2014, was a civilian working for a contract company on Kadena Air Base, an American military installation on Okinawa. He denied an intent to murder.
辛扎托自2007年到2014年在海军陆战队服役。凶案发生时，他受雇于冲绳嘉手纳空军基地的一家合同公司，他否认自己有谋杀意图。
The case stoked extreme anger on Okinawa, where about 47,000 American troops are stationed. It also drew an outraged protest from the Japanese government. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe raised the case in an uncharacteristically public display of anger during then-President Barack Obama’s trip to Japan last May for a Group of 7 summit meeting and a visit to Hiroshima.
这起案件在约有四万七千名美军驻守的冲绳地区激起极大愤慨，也引起了日本政府的愤怒抗议。去年5月，日本首相安倍晋三在前美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马参加G7峰会并访问广岛期间，曾一反常态地公开表示愤怒。
According to the indictment in Naha District Court, Mr. Shinzato stabbed Ms. Shimabukuro in the neck with a knife and hit her on the head with a bar to subdue her before raping her. The attack killed her.
根据那霸地方法院的起诉书，辛扎托用刀刺中岛袋里奈的颈部，为了控制住她，他还用一根棍棒敲打她的头部，之后强奸了她。岛袋里奈在遭到袭击后死亡。
Ms. Shimabukuro’s body was found three weeks later in woods near Onna, a village north of Uruma, where Mr. Shinzato had dumped her.
三个星期后，岛袋里奈的尸体在宇流麻市以北的恩奈村附近的树林里被发现，辛扎托把她的尸体丢弃在那里。
Crimes committed by American service members or other personnel on Okinawa have long been a source of tension between the United States and Japan. Last month, a Japanese driver was killed in a collision with a military truck driven by a Marine stationed in Naha.
长期以来，美军或其他驻冲绳工作人员犯下的罪行一直是美国和日本之间紧张的根源。上个月，一名日本司机驾驶的骑车与一名驻那霸的海军陆战队员驾驶的军用卡车相撞，造成日本司机死亡。