The coming year is expected to be a little kinder to home buyers. While affordability will continue to be a problem in hot markets like New York and San Francisco, buyers in general may find they have more homes to choose from and more lenders vying for their business.
对于想买房子的人来说，明年的情况会稍好一些。虽然在纽约、旧金山这类行情火爆的市场，无力承担房价依然是个问题；但总体而言，购房者会发现，可选的房源和竞相招徕客户的贷款银行都会有所增加。
Here are some likely trends to watch in 2014.
以下是2014年可能出现的、值得关注的新趋势。
MORTGAGE RATES CONTINUE TO CLIMB. As the economy improves and the Federal Reserve winds down its monetary stimulus, mortgage rates will rise to reflect that lack of stimulus, said Erin Lantz, the director of mortgages at Zillow.com. She predicts 30-year fixed-rate loans will hit 5 percent for the first time since 2010. That’s still historically low, and rising rates are a sign of a stronger economy.
抵押贷款利率继续增长。房地产搜索网站Zillow.com负责抵押贷款业务的艾琳·兰兹(Erin Lantz)表示，由于经济条件有所改善，加上美联储对货币刺激政策的逐步减量，抵押贷款利率会随着此番刺激的缺失而上涨。她预测，30年期固定利率贷款的利息率将自2010年以来首次达到5%。这依然是历史较低水平，而利率的上升是经济走强的征兆。
“Higher rates would go hand in hand with higher employment, increasing incomes — changes that are increasing household purchasing power,” said Jed Kolko, the chief economist of the real estate website Trulia.
“利率上涨将与就业的增加及收入的上升同步并行——这些变化正导致家庭购买力的提升。”房地产信息网站Trulia的首席经济学家杰德·科尔克(Jed Kolko)表示。
LENDERS LOOSEN UP, A LITTLE. Rising rates will also mean fewer borrowers seeking to refinance out of higher-priced mortgages. Lenders will try to fill that gap in capacity by competing more aggressively for purchase business. Ms. Lantz expects some modest easing in requirements for minimum credit scores, maximum loan-to-value ratios, and debt-to-income ratios. “Lenders will look for where they have room to widen these guidelines conservatively,” she said.
贷款银行的贷款条件将略有放宽。利率的上升也意味着，通过代价更高的抵押贷款来寻求重新贷款(refinance)的客户将减少。贷款银行为填补放贷量的缺口，将更加积极主动地在购房业务上展开竞争。兰兹预计，有关最低信用评分、最高贷款-价值比(loan-to-value ratios)和债务-收入比(debt-to-income ratios)的要求，都会有些许放宽。“贷款银行会想办法谨慎放宽这些指标。”她说。
Regulatory guidelines that take effect in January will set parameters on how much easing lenders can do without straying outside the government’s “qualified mortgage.” Lending outside that safe harbor isn’t likely to be liberal, and will mainly consist of low-risk loans to the wealthy, said Bob Walters, the chief economist of Quicken Loans, an online lender.
将于1月生效的监管方针，会为贷款银行设立放宽指标的限度，使他们不至于偏离政府设立的“合理按揭”范畴。在线零售贷款公司快速贷款(Quicken Loans)的首席经济学家鲍勃·沃尔特斯(Bob Walters)表示，安全港(safe harbor)以外的放贷不太可能完全放开，其主要组成部分仍将是面向富人的低风险贷款。
HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES FLATTEN OR FALL. It may seem counterintuitive that the level of homeownership would be unresponsive to improving market conditions. But the national rate is only just stabilizing — at around 65 percent — after dipping from the historically highs during the housing bubble. “I don’t see us going up substantially from here,” Mr. Walters said. “We’re likely to level off where we’re at now.”
住房所有率不变或下降。市场环境的改善将不会对住房所有率造成影响，这一点或许看似违背常情。不过，全国的住房所有率只是刚刚趋稳，大约在65%的水平，相比房地产泡沫时期的历史最高点有所下跌。“我不认为住房所有率会显著上升，”沃尔特斯说，“它很可能会停留在现有水平。”
And those young adults who, because of a stronger economy, are finally able to find jobs and move out of their parents’ homes are more likely to rent than buy. “Ironically, that would bring down the homeownership rate,” Mr. Kolko of Trulia said, “not because there are fewer homeowners, but because there are people who were out of the housing market who are getting back in as renters.”
由于经济走强，许多年轻人终于得以找到工作，离别父母，自立门户。但与买房相比，这些人更倾向于租房。“讽刺的是，这会压低住房所有率，”在Trulia工作的科尔克说，“并不是因为拥有房产的人变少了，而是因为有些人离开住房市场后，又以租户的身份回来了。”
ARMS, CASH-OUT ‘REFIS’ MAKE A COMEBACK. Adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs, were viewed as risky after the housing-market collapse. But they are slowly regaining their appeal, and as rates on fixed-rate mortgages rise, more borrowers will take advantage of lower-rate adjustables. “This almost exclusive focus on the 30-year fixed mortgage will lessen over time,” Ms. Lantz said. “As rates go up, ARMs might become more important options for folks, especially the longer-term ARMs,” in which interest is fixed for seven or 10 years.
可调利率抵押贷款(ARMs, Adjustable-rate mortgages)、套现类重新贷款(cash-out refinance)再度流行。可调利率抵押贷款在房市崩盘后被被贴上了“高风险”的标签。但是它们正逐渐再度流行起来，随着固定利率抵押贷款的利息率不断上升，越来越多的借款人将通过可调利率抵押贷款的较低利率获益。“人们现在几乎只关注30年期的固定利率抵押贷款，这种关注会随着时间推移而减弱，”兰兹说，“随着利率的上升，可调利率抵押贷款或许会成为购房者更重要的选择——尤其是期限较长的那些。”这些长期项目的利率在七或十年内是固定的。
Cash-out refinancing was also abandoned after the collapse emptied borrowers of equity. Mr. Walters expects that as values continue to climb, more people will again look to unlock their growing equity. Interest rates will still be low enough to make cash-out refinancing an option for many people. “I think we’ll see a trend toward cash-out again,” he said. “It won’t be en masse, but we will start to see it.”
自从房地产的崩盘掏空了借款人的不动产，套现类重新贷款也随之被市场淘汰。沃尔特斯认为，随着利率的不断上升，越来越多的人会再度考虑动用他们日益增长的不动产资源。套现类重新贷款的利率仍将处于较低水平，足以吸引许多人将其作为一个考量。“我认为，套现类重新贷款会再度时兴起来，”沃尔特斯说，“它不会成为绝对的主流，但我们将在市场中见到它的身影。”