It was not a major arrest by ivory smuggling standards. A traveler bound for Amsterdam was stopped at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport here on a Saturday night last month with a little less than two pounds of ivory, in the form of five bangles, seven rings, seven pendants and two figurines.
按象牙走私的通常规模来说，这次截获的象牙数量不算大。上月的一个周六夜晚，一名去往阿姆斯特丹的旅客在乔莫·肯雅塔国际机场(Jomo Kenyatta International Airport)被拦了下来。他携带的象牙重量略低于两磅，包括五只镯子、七枚戒指、七个吊坠和两尊小雕像。
The traveler’s identity was the surprising part: David McNevin, who served as a defense attaché at the American Embassy here. His arrest meant that a former official of a government dedicated to stopping the poaching that has threatened the very existence of Kenya’s elephants was engaged in ivory trading himself.
令人震惊的是这名旅客的身份：前美国驻肯尼亚使馆武官戴维·麦克内文(David McNevin)。麦克内文被捕意味着一名前政府官员自己就涉入了象牙贸易，而他曾经服务的政府致力于阻止威胁肯尼亚大象生存的偷猎行为。
The timing of the arrest was particularly incongruous. On the same day, July 1, that Mr. McNevin was arraigned, President Obama was in neighboring Tanzania pledging an additional $10 million in aid to help halt wildlife trafficking and creating a presidential task force on the matter.
麦克内文被捕的时机尤其不巧。他于7月1日被捕，同一天，奥巴马总统正在肯尼亚的邻国坦桑尼亚承诺增加1000万美元的援助，以帮助制止野生动物走私，并表示要为此事设立一个总统特别小组。
At an event Wednesday as part of a campaign called Hands Off Our Elephants, Paula Kahumbu, the executive director of the nonprofit group WildlifeDirect, said that ivory was leaving Africa at an unprecedented rate, part of a surge in poaching that could lead to the extinction of the elephant within 10 years if it is not halted. The United States is not exempt from the problem, she said.
在“放开我们的大象”(Hands Off Our Elephants )运动本周三的一场活动中，非营利组织野生动物信息(WildlifeDirect)执行主任保拉·卡乎姆卜(Paula Kahumbu)说，象牙流出非洲的速度前所未有，这是偷猎活动激增的一部分。此类活动如果得不到制止，可能导致大象在10年内灭绝。她说，美国不能在该问题中置身事外。
“We know that the U.S. has thriving ivory markets, and 30 percent of the ivory is illegal,” Ms. Kahumbu said. “We are calling for a U.S. ban on domestic trade.”
她说，“我们知道美国有繁荣的象牙市场，而且这些象牙中有30%都不合法。我们呼吁美国禁止国内象牙贸易。”
Reports of ivory seizures are a regular occurrence in Mombasa, Kenya’s largest port, where just this month large shipments of ivory have been discovered, in one case disguised as a haul of sun-dried fish, and in another as a consignment of 240 bags of groundnuts.
收缴象牙的报道在肯尼亚的最大港口蒙巴萨经常出现。就在本月，这里起获了几批大宗象牙货物，象牙在其中一个案件中被伪装成了晒干的鱼，又在另一个案件中被藏在了240袋花生里。
The Kenya Wildlife Service has fought to preserve the country’s exotic fauna, including elephants, which are hunted for their tusks, and rhinoceroses, which are slaughtered for their even more valuable horns. Last week, two rangers were killed in firefights with poachers.
肯尼亚野生动物保护局(Kenya Wildlife Service)一直在努力保护该国的稀有动物，包括大象和犀牛。大象被捕杀是因为象牙，犀牛则是因为价值比象牙还高的犀角。上周，两名巡逻队员在与偷猎者的交火中被杀。
Yet light fines and short jail sentences have hobbled enforcement in Kenya. At the event on Wednesday, Judi Wakhungu, Kenya’s secretary for environment, water and natural resources, said the government had proposed a bill that would stiffen the sentences for poachers and smugglers, including prison terms of five years or more.
然而，轻微罚款和短期监禁的判决已经阻碍了肯尼亚的执法行动。在周三的活动中，肯尼亚环境、水和自然资源部长朱迪·瓦昆古(Judi Wakhungu)称，政府已经提出了一项法案，将会加重对偷猎者和走私犯的处罚，包括5年或更长时间的监禁。
She also said that canine units had been introduced at the Nairobi and Mombasa airports as part of a plan to heighten surveillance.
她还说，内罗毕和蒙巴萨的机场已经部署了警犬，这是加强监视力度计划的一部分。
It is unclear whether the canine units helped secure the arrest of Mr. McNevin last month. “We dealt with him the way we deal with any criminal trying to commit a crime,” said Paul Udoto, a spokesman for the Kenya Wildlife Service. He said that Mr. McNevin was traveling under a normal American passport. “He didn’t invoke diplomatic status,” he said. “The American Embassy didn’t contact us.”
尚不清楚警犬是否在上个月逮捕麦克内文的行动中发挥了作用。“我们对他的处理方式与我们处理任何试图犯罪的罪犯的方式一样，”肯尼亚野生动物保护局发言人保罗·乌都图(Paul Udoto)说。他说，麦克内文用的是一本普通美国护照。“他并未启用外交身份，”他说。“美国大使馆也没有联络我们。”
An embassy spokesman declined to comment on the case. Mr. McNevin could not be reached for comment.
美国大使馆女发言人拒绝对此案置评。无法联系到麦克内文置评。
A police spokeswoman said that Mr. McNevin pleaded guilty and paid a fine of 30,000 shillings, or about $350. “He was in a hurry to finish the case and get on his way,” Mr. Udoto said.
一名警方女发言人称，麦克内文已经认罪，并支付了3万先令的罚款，约合350美元。“他急于了结此案，以便继续他的旅行，”乌都图说。