WASHINGTON — After ordering a troop increase in Afghanistan, President Obama eventually lost faith in the strategy, his doubts fed by White House advisers who continually brought him negative news reports suggesting it was failing, according to his former defense secretary Robert M. Gates.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)表示，奥巴马总统在下令向阿富汗增兵后，最终对这一战略决策失去了信心，而白宫的顾问们也不断为他带来负面消息，指出这一战略并未达到预期效果，因而助长了奥巴马的怀疑。
In a new memoir, Mr. Gates, a Republican holdover from the Bush administration who served for two years under Mr. Obama, praises the president as a rigorous thinker who frequently made decisions “opposed by his political advisers or that would be unpopular with his fellow Democrats.” But Mr. Gates says that by 2011, Mr. Obama began criticizing — sometimes emotionally — the way his policy in Afghanistan was playing out.
共和党人盖茨曾效力布什政府，又在奥巴马手下留任两年。在他最新的回忆录中，盖茨称赞奥巴马在思考问题时极其审慎，所做的决定常常是“他的政治顾问反对的，或不会受到民主党同僚的欢迎”。但盖茨表示，到2011年，奥巴马开始对他的阿富汗政策的成效表示不满，有时表达会相当激动。
At a pivotal meeting in the situation room in March 2011, called to discuss the withdrawal timetable, Mr. Obama opened with a blast of frustration — expressing doubts about Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander he had chosen, and questioning whether he could do business with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai.
2011年3月在白宫局势研究室召开了一场关键会议，专门讨论撤军的时间表。在会上，奥巴马一开场就大发不满，对他挑选的指挥官戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)将军表示怀疑，还质疑他能否与阿富汗总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)做交易。
“As I sat there, I thought: The president doesn’t trust his commander, can’t stand Karzai, doesn’t believe in his own strategy and doesn’t consider the war to be his,” Mr. Gates wrote. “For him, it’s all about getting out.”
“我坐在那儿时就想：总统不信任他的指挥官，无法忍受卡尔扎伊，对他自己的战略决策没有信心，也不认为这是他的战争，”盖茨写道。“他就是一心想撤出。”
“Duty: Memoirs of a Secretary at War” is the first book describing the Obama administration’s policy deliberations written from inside the cabinet. Mr. Gates offers 600 pages of detailed history of his personal wars with Congress, the Pentagon bureaucracy and, in particular, Mr. Obama’s White House staff. He wrote that the “controlling nature” of the staff “took micromanagement and operational meddling to a new level.”
《责任：一个战时部长的回忆录》(Duty: Memoirs of a Secretary at War)是第一本从内阁成员的视角描述奥巴马政府政策考虑的书。盖茨用600页笔墨详细记述了他本人与国会、五角大楼的官僚体系，以及与奥巴马白宫团队斗争的故事，后者尤其重要。他写道，“生性爱控制”的白宫团队“将微观管理和行动干预上升到了一个新高度”。
Mr. Obama’s decision to retain Mr. Gates at the Pentagon gave his national security team a respected professional and veteran of decades at the center of American foreign policy — and offered a bipartisan aura. But it was not long before Mr. Obama’s inner circle tired of the defense secretary they initially praised as “Yoda” — a reference to the wise, aged Jedi master in the “Star Wars” films — and he of them.
奥巴马决定留任盖茨在国防部，为他的国家安全团队增加了一位受人尊敬的专家和几十年来置身美国外交政策中心的老手，还带来了两党合作的氛围。但没过多久，奥巴马的核心团队就无法再忍受这位最初被他们称为尤达(Yoda)——《星球大战》(Star Wars)系列电影中那位充满智慧的老年绝地(Jedi)大师——的国防部长，他也同样受不了他们。
Mr. Gates describes his running policy battles within Mr. Obama’s inner circle, among them Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Tom Donilon, who served as national security adviser; and Douglas E. Lute, the Army lieutenant general who managed Afghan policy issues at the time.
盖茨描述了他与奥巴马亲信圈子的持久斗争，这个圈子包括了副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)、时任国家安全顾问的汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)，以及当时负责阿富汗政策问题的陆军中将道格拉斯·E·卢特(Douglas E. Lute)。
Mr. Gates calls Mr. Biden “a man of integrity,” but questions his judgment. “I think he has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades,” Mr. Gates writes. He has high praise for Hillary Rodham Clinton, who served as secretary of state when he was at the Pentagon and was a frequent ally on national security issues.
盖茨称拜登是“一个正直的人”，但质疑他的判断力。“我觉得，他在过去40年几乎每一项重大外交政策和国家安全问题上都判断错了，”盖茨写道。他高度赞扬了希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。他在国防部时，克林顿任国务卿，两人常常在国家安全问题上态度一致。
But Mr. Gates does say that, in defending her support for the Afghan surge, she confided that her opposition to Mr. Bush’s Iraq surge when she was in the Senate and a presidential candidate “had been political,” since she was facing Mr. Obama, then an antiwar senator, in the Iowa primary. In the same conversation, Mr. Obama “conceded vaguely that opposition to the Iraq surge had been political,” Mr. Gates recalls. “To hear the two of them making these admissions, and in front of me, was as surprising as it was dismaying.”
但盖茨的确也提到，克林顿为自己支持增兵阿富汗辩护时曾透露，当她作为参议员竞选总统时，对布什向伊拉克增兵的反对“是出于政治考虑”，因为她在爱荷华州的初选中遭遇了当时持反战态度的参议员奥巴马。同样在那场对话中，奥巴马“含糊地承认，他反对向伊拉克增兵是出于政治考虑，”盖茨回忆道。“听到这两个人在我面前做出这样的坦白，我感到既惊讶又不安。”
Mr. Gates discloses that he almost quit in September 2009 after a dispute-filled meeting to assess the way ahead in Afghanistan, including the number of troops that were needed. “I was deeply uneasy with the Obama White House’s lack of appreciation — from the top down — of the uncertainties and unpredictability of war,” he recalls. “I came closer to resigning that day than at any other time in my tenure.”
盖茨透露，2009年9月召开了一场评估未来阿富汗战略的会议，包括评估所需的军力，其间争吵不断，他之后差点儿就辞职了。“奥巴马白宫团队从上到下都对战争的不确定性和不可预测性缺乏认识，这让我深感不安，”他回忆道。“在我的整个任期内，那是我离辞职最近的一天。”
Caitlin Hayden, the National Security Council spokeswoman, released a statement late Tuesday saying that “deliberations over our policy on Afghanistan have been widely reported on over the years, and it is well known that the president has been committed to achieving the mission of disrupting, dismantling and defeating Al Qaeda, while also ensuring that we have a clear plan for winding down the war, which will end this year.”
周二晚间，国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人凯特琳·海登(Caitlin Hayden)发表了一份声明，说“多年来，对于我们在阿富汗政策上的考虑已有了广泛的报道。我们也都知道，奥巴马总统一直在努力完成扰乱、分解和击败基地组织(Al Qaeda)的使命，同时也努力确保我们有一个结束战争的清晰计划，结束的时间定在今年。”
In response to Mr. Gates’s comments on Mr. Biden, she said, “President Obama relies on his good counsel every day.”
在回应盖茨对拜登所做的评论时，她说，“奥巴马总统每天都会向他那些出色的顾问求助。”
Mr. Gates is a bipartisan critic of the two presidents he served as defense secretary. He holds the George W. Bush administration responsible for misguided policy that squandered the early victories in Afghanistan and Iraq, although he credits Mr. Bush with ordering a troop surge in Iraq that averted collapse of the mission.
盖茨对他作为国防部长服务过的共和党、民主党两位总统都持批评态度。他认为，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府应对一些政策的失误负责，正因为那些政策，美国白白浪费了早期在阿富汗和伊拉克取得的胜利。虽然他也认为，布什下令向伊拉克增兵，从而避免这一使命的崩溃，是有功劳的。
And he says that only he and Mr. Bush’s second secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, pressed forcefully to close the detention center at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, with little result.
他说，只有他和布什的第二任国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)曾力求关闭古巴关塔那摩湾(Guantánamo Bay)监狱，但是收效甚微。
Mr. Gates does not spare himself from criticism. He describes how he came to feel “an overwhelming sense of personal responsibility” for the troops he ordered into combat, which left him misty-eyed when discussing their sacrifices — and perhaps clouded his judgment when coldhearted national security interests were at stake.
盖茨并没有将自己置身批评之外。他讲述了他如何觉得自己对受命于他而投入战斗的士兵负有“巨大责任”，每当谈论起他们的牺牲，他都会眼含热泪——而且当冷漠无情的国家安全利益受到威胁时，这种责任感或许还对他的判断造成了影响。
Mr. Gates acknowledges that he initially opposed sending Special Operations forces to attack a housing compound in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was believed to be hiding. Mr. Gates writes that Mr. Obama’s approval for the Navy SEAL mission, despite strong doubts that Bin Laden was even there, was “one of the most courageous decisions I had ever witnessed in the White House.”
盖茨承认，他一开始不同意派遣特种作战部队(Special Operations)前往巴基斯坦，袭击一处据信为奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)藏身地的住宅。盖茨写道，本·拉登是否真的在里面仍存极大的疑问，但奥巴马还是批准了海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)的行动，这个决定是“我在白宫所见过的最大胆的决定之一”。
In his final chapter, Mr. Gates makes clear his verdict on the president’s overall Afghan strategy: “I believe Obama was right in each of these decisions.”
盖茨在最后一章中表明了对总统的阿富汗整体战略的态度：“我认为奥巴马的这些决策都是正确的。”
Mr. Gates, who began public service as an Air Force intelligence officer, tells of emotional meetings with troops in combat, with those who suffered horrific wounds and with their families.
空军情报官出身的盖茨讲述了他与战斗中的士兵、身受重伤的士兵以及他们的家人会面时的感人场景。
He writes that he is to be buried in Arlington Cemetery’s Section 60, the final home for many killed in Afghanistan and Iraq. “The greatest honor possible would be to rest among my heroes for all eternity,” Mr. Gates writes in closing his memoir.
他写道，他死后将被埋在阿灵顿国家公墓(Arlington Cemetery)的第60区，许多丧生于阿富汗和伊拉克的人最后也被埋在这里。盖茨在回忆录的末尾写道，“与我的英雄们一起长眠于此，是我心目中的最高荣誉。”