Boutros Boutros-Ghali, an Egyptian diplomat who led the United Nations in a chaotic 1990s tenure that began with hopes for peace after the Cold War, but failed to cope with genocide in Rwanda and Bosnia and ended in angry recriminations with Washington, died Tuesday in an Egyptian hospital. He was 93.
周二，埃及外交家布特罗斯·布特罗斯-加利(Boutros Boutros-Ghali)在埃及一家医院去世，享年93岁。在1990年代，他领导联合国度过了动荡的时期。上任伊始，人们寄望他能带来冷战后的和平，但在处理卢旺达和波斯尼亚大屠杀失利后，因为与华盛顿激烈地相互指责而终结任期。
His death was confirmed by the office of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Ban later made a brief appearance before reporters at the United Nations, calling Boutros-Ghali “a memorable leader who rendered invaluable services to world peace and international order.”
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)的办公室证实了他去世的消息。潘基文随后在驻联合国记者前短暂露面，将布特罗斯-加利称为“一位难以忘怀的领导人，对世界和平和国际秩序作出了宝贵贡献”。
The website of Al Ahram, Egypt's state-owned newspaper, said Boutros-Ghali died Tuesday in a hospital in Giza. He and his wife, Leia Maria Boutros-Ghali, had no children, Egyptian diplomats said.
埃及官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)网站称，周二加利在吉萨的一家医院离世。据埃及外交官透露，他和夫人莱亚·玛利亚·布特罗斯-加利(Leia Maria Boutros-Ghali)没有孩子。
A generation before violent protests boiled over in Cairo in 2011, Boutros-Ghali was a keystone of Egypt's old guard diplomacy, a senior minister to President Hosni Mubarak and to his slain predecessor, Anwar Sadat. He seemed to meet the tests of character and experience when, in 1992, he became the sixth secretary general of the United Nations, the first African and the first Arab to hold the post.
与2011年开罗爆发的暴力抗议相比，加利年长了一代人，他曾被认作是埃及老派外交势力的核心人物。加利曾担任胡斯尼·穆巴拉克总统(Hosni Mubarak )及遇刺前总统安瓦尔·萨达特(Anwar Sadat)的外交国务部长。1992年，他似乎满足了品格和经验的考验，成为了联合国历史上第六任秘书长，也是首位担任这一职务的非洲人和阿拉伯人。
The scion of a politically active Coptic Christian family, he accompanied Sadat on his historic olive-branch mission to Jerusalem in 1977, then played a pivotal role in the Camp David accords. He was at the White House when Sadat, Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and President Jimmy Carter signed the 1979 treaty ending a 31-year state of war between Egypt and Israel, a breakthrough in the history of the Middle East conflict.
加利来自一个积极投身政治的科普特基督徒家族。1977年，在出访耶路撒冷，向以色列伸出橄榄枝的历史性访问中，他随同萨达特总统左右，之后他又在《戴维营协议》(Camp David accords)的签署中扮演了重要角色。当埃及总统萨达特、以色列总理梅纳赫姆·贝京(Menachem Begin)和美国总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)在1979年签署和平条约，终结埃及和以色列之间长达31年的交战状态时，加利也在白宫，见证了中东冲突的历史性突破。
Boutros-Ghali took the helm determined to subdue aggression and pursue peace after the fall of Soviet Communism and a relaxation of East-West tensions that had long hamstrung the United Nations. He also resolved to attack the organization's bloated bureaucracy and chronic money problems.
在联合国掌舵后，加利决心压制敌意，寻求在苏联解体后维持和平，并缓和长期困扰联合国的东西方之间的紧张。他也决心精简联合国冗杂的官僚体系，并克服长期的财政问题。
But he faced daunting tasks. Civil wars in Somalia and the secessionist states of Yugoslavia had already begun. Murderous conflicts between Hutus and Tutsis were hurtling toward genocide in Rwanda. And 60,000 U.N. peacekeepers were already thinly posted in a dozen trouble spots, including Cambodia, El Salvador, Angola and Mozambique.
但他面临了重重困难。在索马里，以及在南斯拉夫意欲解体的成员国，内战已经爆发。胡图族(Hutu)和图西族(Tutsi)之间的残酷斗争，引燃了卢瓦达大屠杀。而联合国维和部队的六万名士兵早已分散在一系列动荡地区，包括柬埔寨、萨尔瓦多、安哥拉和莫桑比克。
While he had said early on that he would not seek a second term as secretary general, Boutros-Ghali ran again. Late in 1996, the Security Council voted overwhelmingly to give him another term. But Madeleine Albright, in her last days as the U.S. delegate to the U.N., cast a decisive veto as one of the five permanent council members. Boutros-Ghali thus became the only secretary general denied a second term.
虽然他很早就曾宣称不会寻求连任，但加利依然再次竞选联合国秘书长。1996年底，安理会的投票压倒性地支持他连任。但美国驻联合国大使马德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)在她任期最后几天，作为五个常任理事国之一的代表，投出了关键的否决票。加利就此成为唯一一位未能连任的联合国秘书长。