On a sultry desert evening, as bats fluttered about this town’s riverfront park, a man emerged from a reedy marsh carrying a bundle of grass tied with twine.
沙漠中一个闷热的夜晚，蝙蝠上下拍动着翅膀，在这个城镇的滨河公园出没，一个人从长满芦苇的沼泽中走出来，抱着一捆用麻绳绑着的草。
Setting it down to brush himself off, he explained that he was keeping a calf in the courtyard of an apartment building across town, where he had settled in recently after the previous occupants, engineers with the Russian space program, moved out.
他把草放下，一边掸着身上的尘土，一边解释说，自己在小镇另一边的一栋公寓楼的院子里养着一头小牛，他是最近住进那里的，之前的房客——俄罗斯太空项目的工程师们——刚刚搬走不久。
Baikonur, in remote western Kazakhstan, was once the pride of the Soviet Union, the home of the Baikonur Cosmodrome, the launching site of Sputnik, the dog Laika and the first man in space, Yuri Gagarin. But today, nomadic herders from the nearby steppe are moving into abandoned buildings.
位于哈萨克斯坦偏远西部的拜科努尔曾是苏联的骄傲，拜科努尔航天发射场(Baikonur Cosmodrome)坐落于此，将“史普尼克号”人造卫星(Sputnik)、小狗莱卡(Laika)和太空第一人尤里·加加林(Yuri Gagarin)送入太空。但如今，来自附近大草原的游牧牧民正在搬进废弃的大楼。
That is just one of the signs of the city’s long fade into the sunset of post-Soviet social and economic problems, which are all the more remarkable given that much of the world, including the United States, still relies on Baikonur for manned space launchings. The only other site for such liftoffs is in Jiuquan, in the Gobi Desert in China.
对于这座在后苏联时代种种经济和社会问题中缓缓沉沦的城市，这只是其中的一个表现，而考虑到包括美国在内的很多国家至今仍要依靠拜科努尔发射载人航天器，这一点就显得愈发惊人了。除这里以外，唯一一个能开展类似发射任务的基地是位于中国戈壁滩的酒泉。
“It’s painful for me to think of my town,” Anna Khodakovskaya, the editor of the local newspaper, said of its glum state. The first cellphones appeared here in 2004; the first M.R.I. machine in 2011. “We are not ahead of the planet in anything but space,” she said.
“想到家乡这个样子我就很痛心，”当地报纸编辑安娜·霍达科夫斯卡娅(Anna Khodakovskaya)在谈到当地死气沉沉的现状时说。这里2004年才有手机；2011年有了第一台核磁共振仪。“我们只在航空方面领先于世界，”霍达科夫斯卡娅说。
Today 70 percent of Baikonur’s residents are Kazakh citizens, but the town remains a Russian enclave rented from the Kazakh government and administered under Russian jurisdiction. At the time of the Soviet breakup, the ratios were reversed: it was only about one-third Kazakh.
现在，拜科努尔70%的居民是哈萨克斯坦人，但小镇仍是俄罗斯租界，属俄罗斯管辖。人口占比在苏联刚解体时是反过来的：只有约三分之一哈萨克人。
Along with the squatting herders, day laborers and market traders stroll the streets, with only the occasional aging Russian engineer visible.
擅占空宅的牧民和民工、小贩在街上闲逛，偶尔能看到上了年纪的俄罗斯工程师。
It is a dusty town, where many sidewalks are sandy tracks but nearly every building is decorated with a mosaic of a rocket, a spacewalking cosmonaut or stars and fanciful renderings of planets. In fountains, water bubbles from spouts shaped like rockets, and signed portraits of astronauts adorn the walls of cafes, where coffee is served in the Turkish style with grounds in the cup.
这是一个满是灰尘的小镇，很多人行道都布满沙尘，但几乎每一栋建筑都有火箭、太空行走的宇航员或者星球和奇形怪状的星球之类的锦砖图案。喷泉里喷出来的水泡也是火箭形状，咖啡厅的墙上贴着宇航员的签名肖像，咖啡是土耳其式的，杯里有咖啡渣。
It is a loose end from the breakup of the Soviet Union that has, strangely, become extraordinarily important for every manned space program except China’s.
它是一个苏联解体后被遗弃的地方，却很奇怪地变成一个对所有载人航天项目至关重要的地方，除了中国。
NASA last month extended the contract for astronaut launchings for a year, until mid-2017, for an additional $424 million. For now, every American astronaut blasts off from this town, the stand-in for Cape Canaveral during a gap in funding for manned missions in the United States.
上个月，美国航空航天局(NASA)又拿出4.24亿美元（约合26亿元人民币），将载人航天合同延期一年至2017年中旬。目前每一个美国航天员都是从这个小镇被送入太空的，在美国载人航天任务资金短缺期间，这里成了卡纳维拉尔角发射基地(Cape Canaveral)的替代者。
Because of this dependency, NASA now requires all its astronauts in training to achieve proficiency in Russian before graduating to the astronaut corps.
由于这种依赖关系，现在NASA要求其所有受训航天员都会说流利俄语，这样才能毕业，加入宇航员队伍。
The space agencies of the European Union, Japan and Canada also launch from here on Russian rockets, under an agreement with NASA to repurchase about half of the six seats NASA buys annually from the Russians.
欧盟、日本和加拿大的航天机构也会用俄罗斯火箭，根据和NASA的协议，NASA每年从俄罗斯人那里购得的六个宇航员席位中，有一半会转卖给它们。
From all this, Baikonur may sound like a prosperous hub of space activity. But the state of affairs is only temporary — every nation including Russia, which is building a replacement launchpad on its own territory in the Far East, called Vostochny, views this state of affairs as temporary. As a result, the city of Baikonur has been ignored, and it is falling apart.
有了这些，拜科努尔听上去应该是个繁荣的航天活动中心。但是这种状态只是暂时的，包括俄罗斯在内的所有国家，都认为这是暂时的——俄罗斯正在远东自己的领土上建一个替代的发射场，叫东方港(Vostochny)。拜科努尔城因此被忽视了，正在分崩离析。
“Russia will not be able to roll up the roads and take them away when it leaves,” Ms. Khodakovskaya said.
“俄罗斯离开时，没法把公路卷起来带走，”霍达科夫斯卡娅说。
Social problems typical of Central Asia today, like abuse of heroin smuggled from Afghanistan, labor migration and growing Islamic fundamentalism, are creeping into the city. A few years back, the police arrested men in Tura-Tam, a Kazakh village just outside Baikonur’s guarded fence, for distributing leaflets for Hizb-ut-Tahrir, a fundamentalist Islamic group.
中亚地区的典型社会问题，如从阿富汗走私过来的海洛因、劳工移民，以及势力不断增长的伊斯兰原教旨主义，都在悄悄侵蚀拜科努尔。几年前，一些人因为帮助伊斯兰原教旨主义团体伊斯兰解放党(Hizb-ut-Tahrir)发放传单，在拜科努尔的警戒围墙外一个叫图拉坦的哈萨克村庄被警察逮捕。
The town is a low boil of ethnic tension, too, as Russians hold nearly all the high-paying space jobs. In 2011, young Kazakh men ran in a mass down a central street yelling, “The head is a dog,” a reference to the Russian mayor.
由于几乎所有高收入的航天工作都被俄罗斯人占据，这里的种族争端也在持续发酵。2011年，大批哈萨克年轻人聚集到一起，在一条中央大街游行，并高声喊道，“这里的头儿是条狗，”他们指的就是当地的俄罗斯籍市长。
At the outdoor market, behind heaps of apricots and tomatoes, traders flash gold-toothed smiles and hawk Central Asian pottery glazed with crudely drawn rockets, or the smiling face of Yuri Gagarin in a helmet. Flies sampled the savory pies of mutton and pumpkin on display.
露天市场里，商贩们坐在成堆的杏和西红柿后面微笑着，露出闪光的镶金牙齿，叫卖着来自中亚的陶器，陶器上涂着粗糙画就的火箭图案的釉彩，或是尤金·加加林带着头盔的笑脸。苍蝇飞来飞去，把摆在外面的美味羊肉和南瓜尝了个遍。
Even President Vladimir V. Putin, in a speech on Cosmonaut Day on April 12, referred to Baikonur as “physically aged.”
在4月12日的俄罗斯宇航节上，就连俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)都在演讲中说，拜科努尔“年事已高”。
“These people are putting up rockets, but the town itself is like a third-world country,” said Jene Ragan, a software engineer from Bethesda, Md., who came as a tourist to watch a liftoff in May, swatting at flying ants out on the steppe while watching the rollout of a rocket.
“这些人在忙着发射火箭，但这个城镇自身却像个第三世界的国家，”来自马里兰州贝塞斯达的软件工程师耶纳·拉根(Jene Ragan)说。拉根是一名游客，专门来拜科努尔观看航天器发射，他一边看着火箭亮相，一边用力拍着出没在草原上的飞蚁。
Alarmed at the state of Baikonur, the head of Kazakhstan’s space agency, Talgat Musabayev, in December suggested canceling the rental agreement with Russia; Kazakhstan charges Russia $115 million a year for the town. “The agreement has run its course,” Mr. Musabayev said.
由于担忧拜科努尔的现状，去年12月，哈萨克斯坦航天局负责人塔尔加特·穆萨巴耶夫(Talgat Musabayev)建议取消和俄罗斯的租界合同；哈萨克斯坦把拜科努尔租给俄罗斯，每年收取1.15亿美元租金。“合同已到期了，”穆萨巴耶夫说。
The Kazakhs bristle at Russia’s efforts to keep Kazakh squatters out of abandoned buildings, which are formally Kazakh property, noting the housing shortage in the region. They complain of debris falling on their territory from jettisoned rocket stages.
哈萨克人指出该地区房屋十分紧缺，对俄罗斯不让哈萨克占居废弃建筑的做法十分恼怒，而这些建筑按规定是哈萨克人的财产。被投弃的火箭级残骸落到哈萨克人领土上，也让他们十分不满。
In response, the Russians threatened to simply pull out entirely in 2018 when Vostochny is ready for manned launchings, Izvestia reported.
而据《消息报》(Izvestia)报道，俄罗斯人对此的反应则是威胁将在2018年完全撤离拜科努尔，东方港到那时已经具备发射载人航天飞船能力了。