LONDON — Even as he was preparing for the biggest struggle of his life, leading Britain in its fight against Nazi Germany, Winston Churchill had something else on his mind: extraterrestrials.
伦敦——即便是在准备迎接生命中最大的挑战——带领英国对抗纳粹德国时，温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的心中也在想着别的事情：外星人。
In a newly unearthed essay sent to his publisher on Oct. 16, 1939 — just weeks after Britain entered World War II and Churchill became part of the wartime Cabinet — and later revised, he was pondering the likelihood of life on other planets.
1939年10月16日，也就是英国加入第二次世界大战、丘吉尔成为战时内阁成员仅仅几周后，一篇文章被送至其出版人手中，后来又被多次修改。在这篇近来重见天日的文章中，他探讨了其他星球上存在生命的可能性。
Churchill, who went on to become prime minister during much of World War II and again from 1951 to 1955, was so enthralled by the subject that he even ordered a suspected sighting of an unidentified flying object by the Royal Air Force to be kept a secret for 50 years to avoid “mass panic.”
继而在二战的很长一段时间里担任英国首相、并于1951年至1955年间再度担此要职的丘吉尔，对这一话题极为痴迷，甚至曾勒令将皇家空军(Royal Air Force)疑似见到不明飞行物的信息保密50年，以免引发“大恐慌”。
In an 11-page essay titled “Are We Alone in the Universe?” the statesman showed powers of reason “like a scientist,” said Mario Livio, an astrophysicist who read the rarely seen draft and wrote about it in an article published Wednesday in Nature magazine.
丘吉尔的文章长11页，题为“我们是独自存在于宇宙中吗？”看过难得一见的草稿并就此撰文于周三发表在《自然》(Nature)杂志上的天文物理学家马里奥·利维奥(Mario Livio)说，这位政治家在文章中展示了“如科学家般”的推理能力。
“The most amazing thing is that he started this essay when Europe was on the brink of war and there he is, musing about a question about a scientific topic that is really a question out of curiosity,” he said in an interview.
“最令人惊讶的是，他开始写这篇文章的时候，欧洲正处于战争边缘，而他却在琢磨一个源于好奇心的科学问题，”利维奥接受采访时表示。
Churchill first defines what life is, then details the requirements for life to exist and progressively expands his reasoning to the existence of life in other solar systems, Livio said. “He’s really thinking about this,'’ Livio said, “and though he didn’t have all the knowledge at hand, he thinks about this with the logic of a scientist.”
利维奥说，丘吉尔先是给生命下了定义，然后详细阐述了生命存在的条件，并逐渐将其推理延展至其他太阳系存在生命。“他是真的在思考这个问题，”利维奥说，“尽管并未掌握所有的知识，但他借助科学家般的逻辑思考着这个问题。”
Churchill’s interest in science stemmed from his early years as an army officer in British-ruled India, where he had crates of books, including Darwin’s “On the Origin of Species,” shipped to him by his mother.
丘吉尔对科学的兴趣源于他早年在英国统治下的印度担任陆军军官的经历，在那里他有很多箱书籍，包括他母亲寄送给他的达尔文的《物种起源》。
He later became friends, at least for a time, with the writer H.G. Wells, whose hugely popular “The War of the Worlds,” about Martians invading Britain, was broadcast in 1938 — a year before Churchill wrote his article. (Churchill once said Wells’ “The Time Machine” was one of the books he would like to take with him to purgatory.)
他后来和作家H·G·威尔斯(H.G. Wells)成了朋友，至少有一段时间是如此。威尔斯著有广受欢迎的《世界之战》(The War of the Worlds)，写的是火星人侵略地球的故事。1938年，也是就丘吉尔撰写那篇文章的一年前，该书曾被电台广播。（丘吉尔说过，如果要下地狱，那威尔斯的《时间机器》[The Time Machine]会是他想要带在身边的书之一。）
Churchill argued that it was probable that extraterrestrial life existed somewhere in the universe. This was years before Frank Drake, the U.S. astronomer and astrophysicist, presented in 1961 his theory about the number of communicative civilizations in the cosmos. “It is astonishing that Churchill wasn’t a scientist and yet he showed such an interest in science,” Livio said.
丘吉尔指出，外星生命可能存在于宇宙中的某个地方。这比美国天文学家和天体物理学家弗兰克·德雷克(Frank Drake)于1961年提出关于宇宙中可沟通文明数量的理论早了很多年。“令人惊讶的是，丘吉尔并不是科学家，但他对科学表现出了极大的兴趣，”利维奥说。
The manuscript was passed on to the National Churchill Museum in Fulton, Missouri, the site of Churchill’s famed 1946 Iron Curtain speech, in the 1980s by Wendy Reves, the wife of Churchill’s publisher, Emery Reves. It had been overlooked for years until Timothy Riley, who became the museum’s director last year, stumbled upon it recently. Soon after news of the discovery, two other copies were found in a separate archive in Britain.
上世纪80年代，这份手稿被丘吉尔的出版人的妻子温迪·列韦斯(Wendy Reves)提交给了密苏里州富尔顿的国立丘吉尔博物馆(National Churchill Museum)——丘吉尔于1946年在富尔顿发表过著名的铁幕演说。它被忽略了很多年，直到去年上任的馆长蒂莫西·赖利(Timothy Riley)最近偶然发现了它。该手稿重见天日的消息传出后不久，英国有人在另外一个档案馆里又发现了两份副本。
Although the article was sent to Reves in 1939, it was not published. Churchill had revised it a number of times in the 1950s.
尽管这篇文章在1939年被送到了列韦斯那里，但它并未被发表。丘吉尔在1950年代对文章做过多次修改，
In his article, Churchill wrote: “I am not sufficiently conceited to think that my sun is the only one with a family of planets.”
他在文中写道：“我并未自负到认为只有我的太阳拥有行星体系。”
“I, for one, am not so immensely impressed by the success we are making of our civilization here that I am prepared to think we are the only spot in this immense universe which contains living, thinking creatures,” he wrote, “or that we are the highest type of mental and physical development which has ever appeared in the vast compass of space and time.”
“就我自身而言，我们在这里成功创建的文明并没有那么了不起，不足以促使我认为这里是浩瀚宇宙中唯一一个存在有思考能力的生物的地方，”他写道，“或者认为我们代表着广阔时空内心理和生理进化的最高成就。”
Largely self-educated in the sciences, Churchill had boundless curiosity for practically anything, an attitude he once described as “picking up a few things as I went along.”
基本是靠自学来掌握科学知识的丘吉尔，几乎对任何东西都有着无尽的好奇心，他形容这种态度是“一边走一边捡起一些东西”。
He wrote about 30 million words in his lifetime, including wartime speeches, an African travelogue, a book on oil painting, a lengthy memoir, and even an essay on an imagined invasion of Russia when he was just 15. For his body of work, he won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953.
他一生写了约3000万词的文字，其中包括多份战时演说、一本非洲旅行日志、一本关于油画的书、一本大部头回忆录，甚至在15岁就以想象中的入侵俄国为题写过一篇文章。
Welding an active imagination with scientific thought, Churchill produced a few madcap ideas — which he called “funnies” — that he actually championed while he was prime minister, as a means to defeat Nazi Germany.
集活跃的想象力和科学思维于一身的丘吉尔，有过几个疯狂的点子——他称之为“笑话”——它们其实是他担任首相期间鼎力支持的点子，被其视为击败纳粹德国的工具。
There was Operation Habakkuk, an imagined fleet of aircraft carriers made from wood pulp and ice to fight German U-boats in the mid-Atlantic. Then there was the Great Panjandrum, an enormous, rocket-propelled wheel packed with explosives. Churchill even invented a green velvet “siren suit” to be put on in a hurry during air raids.
先是“哈巴谷行动”(Operation Habakkuk)——按照设想，一支由木浆和冰制成的航母编队将开赴大西洋中部，与德国人的U型潜艇作战。然后是“大首领”(Great Panjandrum)，一种由火箭驱动的巨型爆破车。丘吉尔甚至设计了以绿色丝绒制成的“警报套装”，可供人在空袭期间匆忙套在身上。
While none of these ideas came into being (the giant wheel having run amok in the testing stage), science was not just a hobby for Churchill.
所有这些点子都未变成现实（巨大的爆破车在测试阶段横冲直撞，失去了控制），但科学对丘吉尔来说不仅仅是一个爱好。
He was the first prime minister to hire a science adviser. Frederick Lindemann, a physicist, became Churchill’s “on tap” expert and once described him as a “scientist who had missed his vocation,” said Andrew Nahum, who curated an exhibition on Churchill and science at the Science Museum in London. He found a separate copy of the essay in the Churchill Archives Center at the University of Cambridge.
他是第一位聘任科学顾问的首相。在伦敦科学博物馆(Science Museum)以丘吉尔和科学为主题策划过一场展览的安德鲁·内厄姆(Andrew Nahum)说，物理学家弗雷德里克·林德曼(Frederick Lindemann)成为了丘吉尔“随时”讨教的专家，曾经形容他是一个“入错行的科学家”。内厄姆在剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)丘吉尔档案中心(Churchill Archives Center)找到了一份文章副本。
Churchill also met regularly with scientists such as Bernard Lovell, the father of radio astronomy and the Lovell telescope.
丘吉尔还会和一些科学家定期碰面，譬如射电天文学之父、洛维尔望远镜的发明者伯纳德·洛维尔(Bernard Lovell)。
Churchill founded in 1958 the British equivalent of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Cambridge — Churchill College — which has since produced 32 Nobel Prize winners.
丘吉尔于1958年在剑桥创办了英国版的麻省理工——丘吉尔学院(Churchill College)。该学院迄今为止已经培养出了32名诺奖得主。
In the interwar period, Churchill wrote numerous scientific articles, including one called “Death Rays” and another titled “Are there Men on the Moon?” In 1924, he published a text asking readers “Shall We All Commit Suicide?”, in which he speculated that technological advances could lead to the creation of a small bomb that was powerful enough to destroy an entire town.
在两次世界大战的间隙，丘吉尔写了大量科学方面的文章，其中一篇题为“死亡之光”，还有一篇叫“月球上有人吗？”1924年，他发表了一篇文章，问读者“我们都该自杀吗？”他在文中推测，随着科技的进步，人类将发明一种杀伤力大到足以摧毁整个城镇的小炸弹。
Churchill’s recently unearthed article on extraterrestrial life was probably written in the same vein and probably was intended to be published as a popular science piece for a newspaper.
新发现的那篇关于外星生命的文章大致以同样的语调写就，很可能是要作为科普文章发表在报纸上。
Two other scientific essays — one on cell division in the body and another on evolution — are stored in the museum’s archives in Fulton, Riley, the museum director, said in an interview.
富尔顿那家博物馆的馆长赖利说，另外两篇科学方面的文章——一篇讲的是体内的细胞分裂，另一篇讲的是进化——目前被保存在该博物馆的档案库中。
Churchill had a “natural curiosity and general optimism about life,” Riley said. He had “a willingness to see technical and scientific advances improve not only his immediate world or his country, but the world.”
赖利说，丘吉尔对生命有着“天生的好奇和大体上的乐观态度”。他“乐于见到科技进步不只是让他眼前的世界或他的国家变得更好，还让整个世界变得更好。”