Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader at the center of a toxic mortgage deal sold to investors on the eve of the financial crisis, was found liable on Thursday for civil securities fraud.
周四，前高盛(Goldman Sachs)交易员法布里斯·图尔(Fabrice Tourre)被判对证券欺诈承担民事责任。图尔是金融危机前夕面向投资者销售的一宗不良抵押贷款交易的核心人物。
Five years after the crisis, he is the only employee of a big American bank to lose a courtroom battle to Wall Street’s top regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The S.E.C. took only a handful of employees to court over the crisis, but most cases were settled.
金融危机结束五年后，他是唯一一名在法庭上输给华尔街最高监管机构证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）的美国大型银行员工。危机期间，SEC只把少数几个员工送上了法庭，但大部分案件都达成了和解。
After two days of deliberation, the nine-person jury concluded that Mr. Tourre misled investors about the mortgage deal, capping a more than two-week civil trial in one of the most prominent cases involving the 2008 crisis.
经过两天的审议，九人陪审团认定图尔在该抵押贷款交易中误导了投资者，结束了一场为时两周多的民事审判，审判涉及的案子是与2008年金融危机有关的最著名案件之一。
Of the seven charges facing Mr. Tourre, the jury found him liable on six.
在图尔面临的七项指控中，陪审团判定他应对其中六项承担法律责任。
Mr. Tourre, a 34-year-old Frenchman who is enrolled in a doctoral economics program at the University of Chicago, now faces a fine, or worse, a ban from the Wall Street. The verdict raises questions about his lawyers’ decision not call a single witness, a show of confidence that failed to impress the jury.
今年34岁的图尔是法国人，被芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的一个经济学项目录取，目前正在攻读博士学位。他现在可能会被罚款，可能还会更糟，被禁止再在华尔街工作。他的律师决定不传唤任何证人，这显示出了律师的自信，但却未能让陪审团为之所动，判决让人对其律师的这个决定提出了疑问。
The S.E.C. overcame a rocky start to its case. In the opening days of the trial, the S.E.C. blanketed the jury with financial jargon and called a witness who suddenly contradicted earlier statements he made to the agency, saying that he had been “scared” and pressured by S.E.C. officials.
该案开局颇为不顺，但SEC克服了这一点。在开始几天的庭审中，SEC向陪审团抛出了大量金融术语，还传唤了一名证人，但该证人突然一改之前对SEC所做的陈述，自称受到了SEC官员的“恐吓”。
For the S.E.C., an agency still dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the verdict delivered a long-sought courtroom victory for its crisis-era cases. The defining moment follows one courtroom disappointment after another, including two similar mortgage-related cases that crumbled. In one case, a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee, questioning why the agency declined to charge more senior executives at the bank.
SEC至今仍因未能遏制金融危机而深受困扰，对该机构而言，这一判决为它在法庭上带来了追求已久的胜利。长期以来，该机构一直寻求在和金融危机有关的案件中取得法律上的胜利。在这一决定性时刻到来之前，该机构在法庭上一次又一次失利，其中包括两起与抵押贷款有关的类似案件以败诉收场。在其中一起案件中，一个陪审团认定花旗集团(Citigroup)的一名中层员工无罪，还质疑SEC为何不愿指控该集团职位更高的高管。
Even with the triumph over Mr. Tourre, however, the S.E.C. could face scrutiny all the same.
然而，尽管在图尔一案中取得了胜利，但SEC一样可能会遭到诟病。
Some critics have questioned why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre — a midlevel employee who was stationed in the bowels of Goldman’s mortgage machine — the face of the crisis. Rather than take aim at a high-flying executive, the agency pursued someone barely known on Wall Street, let alone Main Street.
一些批评人士质疑SEC为何选择让图尔成为金融危机的众矢之的。图尔只是一名中层员工，身居高盛抵押贷款机构的内部。SEC没有瞄准高高在上的高管，却追着一个在华尔街都鲜为人知、普罗大众更是闻所未闻的人物。
Although the agency has won about 80 percent of its trials under Matthew T. Martens, and has sued 66 chief executives and other senior officers in crisis-related cases, most Wall Street employees settled without fighting in court.
尽管在马修·T·马腾斯(Matthew T. Martens)的带领下，SEC已在约80%的诉讼中获胜，并在同那场危机有关的案件中起诉了66名首席执行官和其他高管，但大部分华尔街员工都与其达成了和解，并未上庭应诉。
Despite the criticism, the S.E.C. threw its resources at Mr. Tourre’s case. For one, it assigned Mr. Martens to the case, even though he typically oversees the agency’s trial lawyers without acting as one.
尽管受到众多指责，但SEC仍向图尔一案投入了大量资源。比如，尽管马腾斯往往只负责管理该机构的出庭律师，自己并不亲自出庭，但SEC却派他在该案中出庭。
Judge Katherine B. Forrest has the final say on monetary sanctions, be it disgorgement of profits made from the trade in question or a fine. The fine could range from $5,000 to $130,000 per violation.
凯瑟琳·B·福里斯特(Katherine B. Forrest)法官对经济处罚有最终决定权，她将决定是要求返还从涉案交易中获得的利润，还是对他处以罚款。每项违规行为的罚款金额在5000美元（约合3.1万元人民币）至13万美元之间。
Mr. Tourre also faces a ban from the securities industry, but any decision to prohibit Mr. Tourre from working on Wall Street, and for how long, lies solely with the S.E.C.
图尔还面临着不得进入证券行业的禁令，不过决定是否禁止图尔在华尔街工作，以及禁令会实行多长时间，则完全取决于SEC。
A lawyer for Mr. Tourre declined to comment on Thursday.
图尔的一名代理律师周四拒绝发表评论。
The S.E.C.’s case against Mr. Tourre hinged on the claim that he and Goldman sold investors a mortgage security in 2007 without disclosing a crucial conflict of interest: a hedge fund that helped construct the deal, Paulson & Company, also bet it would fail. In his opening argument to the jury, Mr. Martens, the S.E.C.’s lead lawyer, depicted the commission’s case as an assault on “Wall Street greed,” arguing that Mr. Tourre created a deal “to maximize the potential it would fail.”
SEC称他和高盛在2007年向投资者出售一只抵押贷款证券时，没有披露一项关键的利益冲突：参与促成这宗交易的对冲基金保尔森公司(Paulson & Company)同时也在做空相关的股票。SEC对图尔提起的诉讼，关键就在于这一情节。在向陪审团做开庭陈词时，SEC的首席律师马滕斯将SEC的这场诉讼描述为向“华尔街的贪婪”的攻击，声称图尔创造这笔交易“是为了最大限度地提高投资失败的可能性。”
Lawyers for the former Goldman trader, however, portrayed their client as a scapegoat who was 28 at the time of the crisis. Throughout the trial, the defense lawyers reminded the jury that senior Goldman executives approved the deal.
然而，这位前高盛交易员的代理律师则将他们的当事人描绘成了替罪羊，在危机发生时他才28岁。在整个庭审期间，辩方律师都提醒陪审团，高盛的高层都认可这宗交易。
“The idea that Fabrice Tourre, a 28-year-old vice president, was conjuring up a $1 billion fraud, or conspiring with others, is just not supported by the evidence,” Sean Coffey, one of his lawyers, said during his closing arguments.
图尔的律师肖恩·科菲(Sean Coffey)在结案陈词中说，“认为28岁的副总裁法布里斯·图尔炮制出了10亿美元的欺诈交易，或与他人同谋，根本没有证据支持。”
Mr. Tourre, whose fresh face and diminutive stature suggest he is much younger than his current age of 34, took the witness stand for three crucial days. While he showed a sympathetic side as someone who has shunned Wall Street to pursue his Ph.D. and a teaching career, he also stumbled at times and even conceded that he made mistakes.
图尔面容精神、体型瘦小，看起来比现在的实际年龄34岁要年轻很多。他在证人席上站了至关重要的三天。一方面，他拒绝华尔街诱惑，然而攻读博士学位、从事教育事业的表现令人心生好感，但另一方面他又不时失言，甚至还承认他犯了错误。
The S.E.C.’s victory reopens some wounds for Goldman, which is paying for Mr. Tourre’s defense. Inside the bank, employees had been quietly cheering for Mr. Tourre, whom one executive called “the poor kid.” Viewing the S.E.C.’s case as thin, the executives saw Mr. Tourre as a proxy for the fight they wanted to wage with regulators.
SEC的胜诉重新撕开了高盛的伤口，图尔的辩护费用是由高盛支付的。在高盛内部，员工们曾悄悄地为图尔喝彩，一位高管曾称说他是个“可怜的孩子。”在高盛高管们看来，SEC的案子威胁不大，而图尔是他们意欲和监管机构展开的斗争中的一个代表。