To oversee international expansion, the Alibaba Group is turning to a former Goldman Sachs executive who has long worked with the Chinese Internet giant.
中国互联网巨头阿里巴巴集团聘用了长期与其合作的一名前高盛(Goldman Sachs)高管，负责该公司的国际扩张业务。
Alibaba on Tuesday named J. Michael Evans, who already serves on its board, as its president.
本周二，阿里巴巴任命该公司董事会成员 J·迈克尔·埃文斯(J. Michael Evans)为总裁。
The role is the biggest for Mr. Evans, an Olympic medalist rower who was once seen as a potential candidate to become Goldman’s next chief executive. In his 20-year career at the Wall Street firm, he rose through the ranks in London and Hong Kong before becoming the global head of growth markets.
这是埃文斯获得过的最高职位。他曾是获得过奥运奖牌的赛艇运动员，一度被认为有望成为高盛下任首席执行官的候选人。他在高盛工作了20年，在伦敦和香港分部步步高升，直到成为这家华尔街公司增长型市场的全球负责人。
He also played a leadership role on the bank’s Business Standards Committee, formed after the financial crisis to help the firm quell criticism about its practices.
他也在高盛的业务标准委员会(Business Standards Committee)发挥了领导作用。该委员会在金融危机后组建，以帮助平息该公司在业务上遭受的批评。
But his name came up less frequently in recent years, and he retired from Goldman in 2013.
但近几年他的名字出现次数较少。2013年，他从高盛退休。
Mr. Evans’s international experience is expected to drive his work in helping Alibaba expand its business abroad, and in particular convincing companies in Europe, the Americas and elsewhere in Asia that the e-commerce giant is the best way to access hundreds of millions of Chinese customers.
埃文斯的工作是帮助阿里巴巴扩大海外业务，尤其是说服欧洲、美洲和亚洲其他地区的公司，这家电商巨头是它们触及数以亿计的中国顾客的最佳途径。埃文斯的国际经验应该有助于他开展这项工作。
Mr. Evans first came to know Alibaba during his time in Hong Kong, where he eventually became the chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific.
埃文斯第一次得知阿里巴巴是在香港任职的时候，他最终在香港成为高盛亚太区主席。
He will report to Daniel Zhang, Alibaba’s chief executive.
他将向阿里巴巴首席执行官张勇汇报。
“I am honored to be joining Alibaba and excited by the opportunity to lead Alibaba’s international growth strategy,” Mr. Evans said in a statement. “I look forward to joining Daniel’s management team and working with a terrific group of people with whom I’ve developed strong relationships.”
“非常荣幸能加入阿里巴巴集团，并对能领导执行集团全球化战略感到非常兴奋。我期待着加入张勇的管理团队，与这个我已经密切合作的团队一起共事。”
“As we connect Alibaba and the rest of the world, we are turning to a proven international leader who has been connecting China and the rest of the world for most of his career,” Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder and executive chairman, said in a statement. “Through his work on our board, he has built the trust and respect of our management team, and I have no doubt that he will make a significant contribution to our business.”
“随着阿里巴巴集团与全球接轨，我们希望有一位公认的国际化管理者来领导集团的海外业务，而他（埃文斯）的过往工作经历，正是致力于积极将中国和世界各地联系起来，”阿里巴巴创始人、执行主席马云发表声明称。“在出任董事工作期间，他和集团管理团队间建立了互信和尊重，我相信他会为集团的业务发展带来重要贡献。”