Donald Trump ignited a surprising confrontation on Saturday between his incoming Republican administration and the cast of the Broadway hit “Hamilton,” setting off furious debate over American principles like free speech, respect and the ability to challenge authority in the Trump era.
周六，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在即将上台的共和党政府与百老汇大热剧目《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)的演员之间挑起了一场令人意外的对峙，导致人们就言论自由、尊重以及挑战权威的能力等美国原则在特朗普时代将何去何从展开激烈讨论。
President-elect Trump demanded an apology from the racially diverse cast for making an unusual, politically charged appeal from the stage on Friday night to Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who was in the audience, urging him and Trump to “uphold our American values” and “work on behalf of all of us.”
周五晚上，该剧种族多元化的演员阵容在舞台上向观众席中的候任副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)提出了一个不同寻常的、带有政治指控意味的请求，敦促他和特朗普“坚守我们的美国价值观”，并“代表我们所有人的利益”。候任总统特朗普要求演员为此道歉。
Trump, who has stirred bipartisan concern over his habit of attacking those who challenge him, said that the actors had “harassed” Pence and issued a battle cry to his supporters by saying that the musical’s cast had criticized “our wonderful future VP Mike Pence.”
因为习惯于攻击自己的质疑者而令两党感到担忧的特朗普，宣称这些演员“骚扰”了彭斯，还说他们是在批判“我们这位了不起的未来副总统迈克·彭斯”——这等于是向支持者发出战斗的号召。
The clash between the “Hamilton” actors and Trump captured the sharply divergent feelings of many American voters 11 days after the election: a showdown between the values of multiculturalism on the left, including the world of entertainment, and the conservative principles of the incoming Trump administration, which was backed strongly by working-class white voters and traditional Republicans.
大选结束11天后，《汉密尔顿》的演员和特朗普之间的冲突折射出了存在于许多选民之间的针锋相对的情绪，体现了包括演艺界在内，左翼阵营的多元文化主义价值观与得到工薪阶层白人选民及传统共和党人强烈支持的未来特朗普政府之间的对立。
His maneuver, in two posts to Twitter on Saturday morning, stunned the cast members and, judging by social media, jolted many Americans who are worried about the president-elect’s tolerance for dissent after a campaign in which he was criticized for inflaming racial tensions. But it also touched off reaction among other Americans who treasure the traditions and respect of the office of the presidency, and viewed the statement — and the booing of Pence by some theatergoers before the performance — as out of line.
特朗普于周六早上在Twitter上两度发文，令演员们颇为错愕，从社交媒体上的反应看，这也令许多担心候任总统难以包容异见的美国人感到震惊——早在竞选期间，特朗普就因为煽动种族矛盾而受到了批评。但这件事也在其他那些珍视传统、认为总统的权威应当得到尊重的美国人中间引发了反响，他们觉得演员们的声明以及部分观众对彭斯起哄的举动有些出格。
Trump seized the moment to generate sympathy for Pence by portraying him as under siege by New York City elites who would go so far as to break tradition and make a political statement from the stage. And some artists criticized the “Hamilton” statement: Musician Steven Van Zandt, a bandmate of Bruce Springsteen’s, wrote on Twitter on Saturday: “You don’t single out an audience member and embarrass him from the stage. A terrible precedent to set.”
特朗普借此机会为彭斯博取同情，将其描绘成一个被纽约城内精英围困的人——那些精英们竟然可以打破传统，在舞台上发表政治声明。一些艺人也批评了《汉密尔顿》演出现场的声明。布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)的乐队成员、音乐人史蒂芬·凡·赞特(Steven Van Zandt)周六在Twitter上写道：你不能挑出一名观众，在舞台上给他难堪。这是一个很糟糕的先例。