FORTALEZA, Brazil — It is a hard thing to have your voices heard over tens of thousands of people who are screaming at the same time, hoping to drown you out, but that did not stop the fans of Mexico here Tuesday from trying and trying and trying.
巴西福塔莱萨——当有成千上万人同时尖叫，希望把你的声音盖下去时，要让别人听到你的声音可是一件难事，不过，这并未阻止墨西哥队的球迷周二时在这里一遍又一遍地做出这样的尝试。
Dressed in red and green shirts, they formed a few watermelon-color splotches around the capacity crowd of Brazilian fans in yellow and chanted tirelessly toward the field for two hours. When the final whistle blew, their voices were the loudest ones heard in Estádio Castelão, and their varied songs were whittled down to one: the name of their goalkeeper, Guillermo Ochoa — or as they endearingly call him, Memo.
他们穿着红绿两色的球衫，在身着黄色球衫的巴西球迷的海洋中，形成了几处西瓜色的斑点，不知疲倦地对着球场叫喊了两个小时。待到终场哨声响起，他们发出了卡斯特劳体育场(Estádio Castelão)最响亮的声音，他们嘴里五花八门的呼喊声逐渐汇成了一个名字，那就是墨西哥队的门将吉列尔莫·奥乔亚(Guillermo Ochoa)——或是他的昵称梅莫(Memo)。
Facing one of the premier attacking lineups on the planet, Ochoa made several spectacular saves to lead Mexico to a 0-0 draw against Brazil. It was one of the most striking performances in this still-young tournament, and it allowed the Mexico fans to leave the muggy stadium feeling as if they had won.
面对这个星球上最杰出的进攻阵容之一，奥乔亚用几次无以伦比的扑救，力争让墨西哥以0-0战平了巴西。这是才刚开赛不久的世界杯赛上最令人惊叹的表演之一，它让墨西哥队的球迷离开泥泞的球场时，感觉就像自己已经赢了。
“I never dreamt of playing a game like this,” said Ochoa, who called it the most important performance of his career. “There are nights when you get out there and the ball seems to hit you even if you close your eyes. There are games like that.”
奥乔亚说，这是他职业生涯中最重要的一场球，“我从未梦想过能踢这样一场比赛。有些晚上是这样的，你站在那，哪怕闭上眼球好像都会往你身上跑。确实有那样的比赛。”
Miguel Herrera, Mexico’s coach, waited until the very last moments before the tournament to name his starting goalkeeper, ultimately picking Ochoa over José de Jesús Corona. It was a huge moment for Ochoa, who was named to the team’s World Cup rosters in 2006 and 2010 but did not play either time.
直到赛前最后一刻，墨西哥队教练米格尔·埃雷拉(Miguel Herrera)才指定了自己的开场门将，最终，他选择了奥乔亚，而不是何塞·德赫苏斯·科罗纳(José de Jesús Corona)。这对曾在2006年和2010年入选世界杯球队名单、但两次都没上过场的奥乔亚来说，是一个重要的时刻。
Herrera said Ochoa’s calm demeanor gave him the edge over his competitors.
埃雷拉说，奥乔亚冷静的行止让他在竞争中胜出。
“We haven’t been mistaken,” Herrera said about the decision. “It seems Memo has lived up to it with his attitude. He is enjoying the World Cup, after being at World Cups on the bench.”
埃雷拉提到这个决定时说，“我们没有搞错。看起来梅莫已用自己的态度证明了自己的实力。作为往届世界杯的替补球员，他现在正在享受世界杯。”
Ochoa made saves on four surefire goal chances, two on either side of halftime. In the 69th minute, the Brazilian star Neymar lashed a sideways, left-footed volley toward the goal that Ochoa saved with the upper part of his left thigh.
奥乔亚化解了四次本应万无一失的进球机会，上半场和下半场各有两次。第69分钟，巴西球星内马尔(Neymar)侧身用左脚凌空抽射，被奥乔亚用左大腿挡住。
In the 86th minute, the Brazilian defender Thiago Silva charged into the penalty box, rose up above the crowd to meet a cross and drilled a header toward the goal. But Ochoa slid over to whack the ball away with both hands. It was his sixth save, and his teammates ran over to embrace him.
第86分钟，巴西后卫蒂亚戈·席尔瓦(Thiago Silva)冲入禁区，在人群中跃起，将一记传中球顶向球门。然而奥乔亚倒地用双手将球击飞了。这是他的第六次扑救，队友们纷纷跑过来拥抱他。
“They have a very good goalkeeper who had a very good day,” said Luis Felipe Scolari, Brazil’s coach. “That is why we could not win.”
巴西队教练路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luis Felipe Scolari)说，“他们有一位非常棒的守门员，他今天发挥超常。这就是我们赢不了的原因。”
Goals turned out to be the only thing missing from the party in Fortaleza, where the country’s green and white colors created a citywide decorative motif. National flags fluttered outside apartment windows. Team shirts were being sold all along the main thoroughfares surrounding the area, while stringed pennants crisscrossed above the narrower streets.
事实证明，福塔莱萨的狂欢盛宴唯一缺少的就是进球，整个城市到处装饰着绿色和白色。国旗在公寓窗外飘扬。本地主要的大街都在沿路兜售球队的球衫，稍窄的街道上则拉着一条条纵横交错的三角旗。
The night before the game, Silva, the Brazilian captain, made a plea to the country’s fans: “If you could sing the anthem with us, just like we players sing it on the pitch,” he said. “Hug the person beside you, and sing it with us. I think that pushes us forward.”
比赛前一晚，巴西队队长席尔瓦对本国球迷提出了一个请求，他说：“能不能和我们一起唱国歌，就像我们球员在球场上那样。请拥抱你身边的人，和我们一起唱国歌。我想这会激励我们向前冲。”
After the Brazilian players walked out onto the field Tuesday — each player resting his hands on the shoulder of a teammate in front of him — Silva’s request was brilliantly fulfilled. The Brazilian fans, almost every one of them dressed in yellow, produced an ear-stinging rendition of the anthem, continuing deafeningly without musical accompaniment to the second stanza, which is generally dropped at sporting events.
周二晚，当巴西队队员步入场球场时——每位队员都把手搭在前面一名队员的肩上——席尔瓦的愿望成功地实现了。几乎全都身穿黄色球衫的巴西队球迷震耳欲聋地高唱国歌，在没有音乐伴奏的情况下，继续高唱着体育赛事中通常会被省略的第二段国歌。
The stadium was still buzzing during some tense and physical opening minutes. Mexico seemed to be fighting some nerves as it chased Brazil around the field. It was struggling to win possession, and when it did, it made wayward passes and clumsy touches, giving it right back.
开场后那段激烈而充满冲撞的时间里，体育场里依然一片嘈杂。墨西哥队追着巴西队满场跑时，似乎在克服强烈的紧张情绪。他们很难有机会控球，一旦控球了，又会出现传球失误，触球动作笨拙，很快又把球权拱手让出。
After a quarter of an hour, the teams settled a bit and traded legitimate chances. In the 24th minute, Héctor Herrera directed a laser beam toward the Brazilian goal, forcing Júlio César to make a fingertip save over the bar. Mexico would take 12 more shots, but at least half of them flew over the crossbar.
一刻钟后，两队稳定下来一点，各自都创造了一些像样的机会。第24分钟，赫克托·埃雷拉(Hector Herrera)直捣巴西队的球门，迫使儒利奥·塞萨尔(Júlio César)用指尖把球挡出门楣外。墨西哥队还会有12次射门，可是至少有半数都打高了。
Then Ochoa was put to work. Shortly after Herrera’s chance, Neymar drilled a header toward the far post that required a full-stretch dive from Ochoa, who parried it away with his right hand just before it crossed the goal line. It was most likely his toughest save of the game. Ochoa came up big again a minute before halftime, stuffing Paulinho’s shot from close range after he got free with the ball in front of the goal.
然后奥乔亚开始发挥。埃雷拉获得进球机会后不久，内马尔就头球攻向远点，迫使奥乔亚伸展全身奋力一跃，就在球将要越过底线的一瞬，他用右手把它挡开了。这极有可能是他本场比赛中最艰难的一次防守。中场休息前一分钟，保利尼奥(Paulinho)摆脱防守在门前近距离起脚，被奥乔亚再次发威挡下。
Scolari joked that he disliked Ochoa, before going on to shower him with praise about his poise and positioning. Scolari said the Brazilian fans and news media were underrating the Mexicans, saying they had skill and knowledge of the game. Scolari could also have mentioned their rabid fans.
斯科拉里先是开玩笑说他不喜欢奥乔亚，而后对他镇定和站位大加赞赏。斯科拉里说，巴西队的球迷和新闻媒体低估了墨西哥队，他说墨西哥人拥有这项运动的技巧和知识。斯科拉里本来还可以提一提疯狂的墨西哥球迷的。
“They’re powerful,” Ochoa said. “They’re mean.”
“他们很强大，”奥乔亚说，“也很刻薄。”
After Ochoa’s virtuoso individual performance, they were singing his name.
在奥乔亚奉上了技艺超群的个人表演后，他们在高唱他的名字。