How you work depends in large part on the spaces in which you work. This big theme is taken up by Nikil Saval in “Cubed: A Secret History of the Workplace.” There is in fact nothing “secret” about this history; from the Civil War on, as the white-collar world grew, managers and designers thought out loud about where workers should sit, the furniture they should use, the walls and windows that should surround them. Instead of a secret history, Saval, an editor of n+1, has written something more interesting. He has infused a straightforward factual account with all sorts of literary, cultural and political insights; these make the story he tells more dark than dry.
你如何工作在很大程度上取决于你的工作场所——这是尼基尔·萨瓦尔(Nikil Saval)在《隔间：办公室秘史》(Cubed: A Secret History of the Workplace)中探讨的一个重大主题。实际上，办公室的历史毫无“秘密”可言；从美国内战起，随着白领队伍的壮大，经理们和设计师们经常讨论员工们应该坐在哪里，应该用什么样的办公桌，他们周围的墙壁和窗户应该是怎样的。萨瓦尔是《n+1》的编辑，他写的不是秘史，而是更有趣的东西。他把直白的事实描述与各种文学、文化和政治洞察融合在一起，让他讲述的故事更黑暗，不枯燥。
There was no white-collar class in the modern sense before the late 19th century. Most offices were small, employing at most a few dozen clerks to service managers and partners; even big factories could be run lean. Offices themselves tended to be intimate and informal spaces, clerks and partners sitting near to, if not next to, one another. Everyone dealt with everything; spoken exchanges rather than paper memos got the work done. This was no happy paradise, as Saval shows in a brilliant analysis based on Herman Melville’s story “Bartleby the Scrivener”; rather, it was often an intimate tyranny. What’s more, the gulf separating threadbare existence from well-fed prosperity was dramatized in adjoining desks. Still, “the distance between junior clerk and partner was seen as both enormous and easily surmountable.”
19世纪末之前不存在现代意义上的白领阶层。大多数办公室都很小，最多雇佣几十名员工来为经理和合伙人服务；甚至连大工厂都可能是精简运营。办公室本身通常是亲密的、非正式的场所，员工和合伙人坐得很近，甚至可能是挨着坐。每个人都处理所有事务；通过口头交流而非文件备忘录就能把工作完成。萨瓦尔根据赫尔曼·梅尔维尔(Herman Melville)的故事《录事巴托比》(Bartleby the Scrivener)进行的绝妙分析，发现这绝不是幸福的天堂，而往往是亲密的暴政。另外，当办公桌连在一起时，把衣衫寒酸的穷人与富足的成功人士分开的界线就更加明显。不过，“人们认为，虽然低级职员和合伙人之间的差距是巨大的，但也是可以轻易克服的。”
Saval’s story is essentially about what happened when this office realm got bigger and more organized. In fact, as the office became a bureaucracy ruled by the internal division of labor, the American dream faded, though it was still trotted out ceremonially. National railroads and the coal and steel industries led the way in this transformation, requiring hundreds of specialized service workers rather than a handful of all-purpose clerks.
萨瓦尔的故事本质上是关于这个办公室王国变得更大、组织更严密时会发生什么。实际上，当办公室变成由内部分工主导的官僚机构时，美国梦就褪色了，虽然在仪式上它仍被拿出来炫耀。国家铁路和煤炭钢铁业引领了这方面的变革，它们需要成百上千名专业服务工作者，而不是一小群全能职员。
In a nice touch, Saval shows how the advent of the telephone and the typewriter aided this transformation, changing the office from a spoken to a written culture: The telephone forced people to keep records of far-flung, impersonal communications; the typewriter enabled them to do so. Architecturally, growth meant growth upward, since in many of America’s expanding cities land to spread out was increasingly scarce and costly. At first, designers had no idea how to organize the interiors of the metal-framed tall buildings that rose up toward the end of the 19th century. Saval suggests that the equally new vertical filing cabinet became a “metaphorical stand-in for the office itself,” with each floor in a building stacked up like a separate file. It’s a neat conceit; it may even have been true.
通过一种巧妙的方式，萨瓦尔陈述了电话和打字机的出现如何助长了这一变革，把办公室文化从口头文化变成了书写文化：电话迫使人们记录下遥远的、没有人情味的交流；打字机的出现使得这么做成为了可能。在很多不停膨胀的美国城市里，向外扩张变得越来越困难、昂贵，于是建筑物向上发展。一开始，设计师们对于19世纪末耸立起来的钢筋结构的高层建筑该如何组织内部空间，毫无头绪。萨瓦尔说同样也属于新生事物的立式档案柜变成了“隐喻意义上的办公室”，大楼的每一层像一个单独的文件夹堆积起来。这是一个巧妙的想像，甚至可以变成现实。
The time-and-motion engineer Frederick Taylor was the villain in this organizational effort. He sought to transform office work so that it was as efficient as manual labor in a factory. This translated into regimented work spaces: rows and rows of identical desks in open areas for the lower-level bureaucrats; cubicles nearly identical in form for middle-level functionaries; offices with some personal character for the few at the top. But it was clear by the end of World War II that regimented space could prove self-defeating; by then, the industrial analyst Elton Mayo and others had shown that the neat, filing-cabinet office was literally counterproductive, depressing and demotivating people, and so slowing them down.
工效设计师弗雷德里克·泰勒(Frederick Taylor)是这种组织结构的罪魁祸首。他想对办公室工作进行改造，让它变得和工厂里的体力劳动一样高效。这就体现为组织严密的工作场所：在开放空间里为低级职员设计一排排整齐划一的桌子；为中级职员设计几乎相同的隔间；为高层的少数几个人设计有个性的办公室。但是“二战”结束时人们已清楚地发现，组织严密的办公室可证明是弄巧成拙；那时候，工业分析师埃尔顿·梅奥(Elton Mayo)和其他人已经证明，整齐的文件柜式办公室实际上适得其反，令人压抑，使人消极，因此降低了工作效率。
Saval evocatively describes designs by a very few visionary architects who sought to humanize the workplace. Frank Lloyd Wright’s Larkin Administration Building of 1906, for instance, a light-filled atrium space in Buffalo, was an early effort to do so; Mies van der Rohe’s Seagram Building in New York, finished in 1958, is about as beautiful an office environment as High Modernism could imagine. But what was the everyday alternative to routinized space if the designer was not a genius artist-architect backed by an unusually enlightened client? What is the vernacular form of the humane office?
萨瓦尔生动地描述了极少数有远见的建筑师们的设计，他们努力想让工作场所人性化。例如，弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)1906年设计的拉金行政办公楼(Larkin Administration Building)，它位于水牛城，带一个采光很好的中庭，这是最早进行这种尝试的作品之一；1958年完工、米斯·范·德·罗厄(Mies van der Rohe)设计的纽约西格拉姆大厦(Seagram Building)，几乎是高度现代主义能够想到的最美的办公环境。但是如果设计师不是个天才的艺术家/建筑师，客户不是格外开明，那我们在程式化的工作场所之外还有哪些常见的选择呢？人性化办公室的本土形式是什么呢？
The question is perhaps more complicated now than a half-century ago, because the work of white-collar organizations has been transformed in the last two generations. The corporate ladder on which a person climbs up or down, or at least stands, is gone; in its place is a more flexible organization, which means more short-term, episodic work. By my calculation, for example, white-collar workers changed employers four or five times on average in 1965, whereas today they are very likely to work for more than a dozen firms in the course of a lifetime. Even if they stay within one company for a long time, they are probably going to move erratically as the organization tacks to and fro. It’s often said that fixed corporate identity is dead; if so, this means that workers’ sense of self-identity is, at the very least, disturbed.
现在这个问题也许比半个世纪前更复杂，因为白领公司的工作在过去两代中已经发生了转变。公司晋升体系——一个人可以在这个体系里升职、降职，或者至少保持原位——不复存在；代替它的是一个更灵活的组织结构，它意味着更多的工作是短期的、暂时性的。例如，根据我的计算，1965年的白领工作者平均一生换四至五次工作，而如今，他们一生中很可能会为十几家公司工作。即使他们在一家公司呆了很长时间，也很可能会随着企业的左右摇摆而做不规则移动。人们常说，公司里的固定身份已不复存在。即便如此，这意味着员工们的自我身份认同至少是被打乱了。 
The design that might remedy this condition, rather than make it worse, confuses Saval — and rightly so. It’s an open question about the transforming power of architecture. “Office landscapes,” which mix large groups of people, have been tried; so, too, the “hot desk” and the “electronic umbilical cord,” which allow people to connect to work without a fixed office or work-space. The planners of office campuses like Silicon Valley’s Googleplex have created something like the modern company town, mixing labor and leisure, providing gyms and upscale restaurants as well as doctors and day care. The problem with such solutions is in part that the functional amenities bind people to offices for ever-longer periods of the day. From a critical viewpoint, these constitute an architecture of ­submission.
那个可能改善这种情况而不是让其变得更糟的设计，让萨瓦尔有点困惑，他的反应是正常的。建筑的改造力是个有争议的问题。人们尝试过“办公室景观”，也就是把大群人混合在一起；还尝试过“热桌”和“电子脐带”，它们让人们不必通过固定的办公室或办公场所也能联系起来。像硅谷的谷歌园区这样的办公园区的规划者,创造了一种类似现代公司小镇的东西，它把工作和休闲结合起来，提供健身房、高档餐厅、医生和日托所。这种解决方案的一个问题是，这些功能性的便利设施使得人们呆在办公室的时间更长了。从批评的角度看，它们组成了一个让人屈服的建筑群。
Saval believes that white-collar workers should resist, somehow, but as he searches for alternatives, he leaves off writing history and becomes a sociologist. His book, he tells us at the very start, is inspired by “White Collar,” the great study by the radical sociologist C. Wright Mills from 1951. By the end of “Cubed,” what exactly inspired Saval has become clear: It is Mills’s worry that white-collar workers are an oppressed class, and also that, because they are resistant to unions and convinced of the American dream, they are passive in their own defense. They may fantasize trashing the office, but they do nothing effective about their rage. Workers, in Saval’s view, have to cease thinking like the proverbially conformist, if unhappy, “organization man.”
萨瓦尔认为，白领工作者应该以某种方式反抗，但是在寻找解决方案时，他不再是在书写历史，而是变成了一个社会学家。他一开始就告诉我们，他写这本书是受到了激进的社会学家C·赖特·米尔斯(C. Wright Mills)1951年的伟大著作《白领》(White Collar)的启发。在《隔间》的结尾，启发萨瓦尔的具体原因已然明了：米尔斯担心白领工作者是被压迫的阶层；因为他们抗拒工会，相信美国梦，所以他们是被动防卫。他们可能幻想着毁掉办公室，但是没有为自己的愤怒采取任何有效的行动。在萨瓦尔看来，工作者必须停止像众所周知的循规蹈矩的人或者不愉快的“组织中人”那样思考。
Does office architecture have anything to do with organizing the middle-class? Saval interviews radical office architects like Francis Duffy. He leaves the United States to inspect Dutch experiments in organizing work flow. He is given some crude advice by the design consultant Erik Veldhoen: “You know Karl Marx? He has to live now.” Saval is too sophisticated to swallow this pill, but even so, he finds something attractive in the medicine. Maybe if workers think about how to take control over work space, they will begin to think about how to transform the work itself — but none of the experts Saval interviews quite convince him.
办公室的建筑样式与组织中产阶级有关吗？萨瓦尔采访了一些激进的办公室建筑师，比如弗朗西斯·达菲(Francis Duffy)。萨瓦尔还离开美国去考察荷兰在组织工作流程方面的一些实验。设计顾问埃里克·费尔德亨(Erik Veldhoen)给他提供了一些直率的建议：“你知道卡尔·马克思(Karl Marx)吗？他现在得活过来。”萨瓦尔够成熟，没有接受这个建议，但是即便如此，他也从中发现了一些吸引人的东西。或许，如果工作者在考虑如何控制工作场所，那他们将开始考虑如何改变工作本身——但是萨瓦尔采访的专家都没能提供令他信服的建议。
This is an unsatisfying end to the book, but it is an honest one. “Cubed” is itself a pleasure to read: beautifully written and clearly organized. Since many Americans now, women as well as men, spend more than half their waking hours at work, it’s also an important exploration.
对这本书来说，这个结局不能令人满意，却最为诚实。《隔间》读起来令人愉快：文字优美，结构清晰。因为现在很多美国人——包括男人和女人——清醒的时间大半是在办公室度过的，所以它也是一项重要探索。