ISLA VISTA, Calif. — Even in California, with some of the strictest gun control laws in the country, Elliot O. Rodger was able to amass a stash of weapons and ammunition, despite having struggled with mental health issues for years.
加利福尼亚州艾拉维斯塔——即便是在有着美国部分最严厉的枪支管制法律的加州，与心理健康问题斗争了多年的埃利奥特·O·罗杰(Elliot O. Rodger)还是设法收集了一堆武器和弹药。
The authorities in Santa Barbara County said Mr. Rodger, 22, went on a rampage Friday night that killed six people and injured 13. Mr. Rodger was found dead in his car after the rampage, and the police said he had apparently taken his own life. In the car, the police said, were three semiautomatic handguns, along with magazines loaded with more than 400 rounds of ammunition — all bought legally at local gun stores.
圣巴巴拉县当局称，22岁的罗杰周五晚上横冲直撞地展开了杀戮之旅，导致六人遇害，13人受伤。此后，罗杰的尸体被人在他的车里发现。警方表示，他似乎死于自杀。警方称，罗杰的车里有三把半自动手枪和装了400多发子弹的弹夹——均通过合法途径购自当地的枪械店。
In the aftermath of the shooting, questions have arisen about whether the authorities followed proper procedures in dealing with Mr. Rodger and whether they had missed warnings of the potential danger.
这起枪击事件发生后，人们质疑当局在对待罗杰时是否遵循了适当的程序，以及他们是否漏掉了展现潜在危险的警示。
Under federal law, someone who is involuntarily committed to psychiatric treatment is barred from possessing firearms. But California’s stricter laws impose temporary bans if individuals are deemed a threat to themselves or others and placed on an involuntary psychiatric hold, or make a serious threat of violence against a “reasonably identifiable” person or persons to a licensed psychotherapist, who must then report such a threat to law enforcement.
联邦法律规定，禁止被强制接受精神病治疗的人拥有枪械。但加州的法律更严厉，规定如果个体被认为对其自身或其他人构成了威胁，并被强制扣留接受精神病观察，或是向有特许执照的精神病治疗医师表现出了严重的针对某个或某些“按理可以确定身份”的人的暴力威胁，精神病治疗医师必须向执法部门汇报这种威胁，相关个体也会受到临时禁令的管制。
The Santa Barbara County sheriff, Bill Brown, said Sunday that Mr. Rodger, who was visited by sheriff’s deputies in April as part of a check on his welfare, offered no indications that he was “a danger to himself or anyone else.”
圣巴巴拉县警长比尔·布朗(Bill Brown)周日表示，警员4月份去查看罗杰的状况时，他未表现出“对自己或其他人构成了威胁”的迹象。
“He just didn’t meet the criteria for any further intervention at that point,” Sheriff Brown said Sunday on the CBS program “Face the Nation.” “He was able to convince the deputies that this was all a misunderstanding, that although he was having some social problems, he was probably not going to be staying in school and going to be returning home. And he was able to make a very convincing story that there was no problem, that he wasn’t going to hurt himself or anyone else.”
“他当时并不符合进一步介入的标准，”布朗周日在CBS的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)上说，“他设法说服警员，这都是误会，尽管有一些社交问题，他可能不会继续留在学校，可能会回家。而且他设法编造了一个非常有说服力的故事，称自己没有问题，也不会伤害自己或其他人。”
In a lengthy manifesto he wrote, Mr. Rodger had a long list of people he said he wanted to kill, including his stepmother and half brother. And while his psychologist, along with his mother and several others, received a copy of the document outlining the threats, it came shortly before the shooting — too late to stop him from buying the guns.
在他写的一份长篇自白书中，罗杰列了一长串人名，说他想把这些人都杀了，其中包括他的继母和他同父异母的弟弟。他的心理治疗师，以及他的母亲和其他几个人收到概述了相关威胁的自白书后不久，枪击事件就发生了——要阻止他买枪已经太晚了。
Mr. Rodger purchased the first gun in November 2012 for $700, a Glock 34 semiautomatic pistol at Goleta Valley Gun and Supply, just a few miles from his apartment, using money he had gotten from family members meant to pay for his college classes.
2012年11月，在离自己的公寓只有几英里的戈利塔山谷枪支弹药店(Goleta Valley Gun and Supply)，罗杰用家人给他用来支付大学课程费用的700美元（约合4400元人民币），买了第一把枪，那是一把格洛克34半自动手枪。
“I did this quickly and hastily,” he said in the manifesto of the gun purchase, which he called “My Twisted World: The Story of Elliot Rodger.” He added that he had chosen that particular gun because it was an “efficient and highly accurate weapon.”
“我那次的行动很快，很匆忙，”他在题为《我的扭曲世界：埃利奥特·罗杰的故事》(My Twisted World: The Story of Elliot Rodger)的自白书中说到那次买枪经历时说。他接着说，他特意选了那把枪是因为它是一把“高效、高精确度的武器”。
After picking it up a few weeks later, he said, he “felt a new sense of power.”
他在买了那把枪几周后提的货，他说，他“那时感觉到了一种新的权力感”。
“Who’s the alpha male now?” he added. He said he then had locked the pistol in his safe before going on vacation with his mother in England.
“现在谁是老大？”他接着说。他说自己把那把枪锁进保险箱之后才与母亲去英格兰度假。
After his mother saw a bizarre rambling he posted on YouTube last month, she worried he was suicidal. As a result of her concern, seven deputies showed at his apartment on April 30, finding Mr. Rodger polite, if awkward. They had no search warrant to look inside his apartment, and apparently no probable cause to look for weapons.
上月看到他在YouTube上发布的一段奇怪且杂乱无章的视频后，他母亲担心他会自杀。因为她的担心，4月30日，七名警察出现在了罗杰的公寓门前，发现他虽然有点古怪，但却彬彬有礼。他们没有进去搜查公寓的搜查令，而且似乎也没有搜查武器的合理理由。
They left shortly after. Mr. Rodger recounted the episode with relief in his rambling document.
不久后，他们就离开了。罗杰在他杂乱无章的自白书中欣慰地说到了那一幕。
“If they had demanded to search my room,” Mr. Rodger wrote, “that would have ended everything. For a few horrible seconds I thought it was all over.”
“如果他们要求搜查房间，”罗杰写道，“那就全都完了。有那么几秒很吓人，我以为一切都结束了。”
Sheriff Brown said that while he wished “that we could turn the clock back and maybe change some things,” there was little more that the authorities could have done. Judging from Mr. Rodger’s writings, Sheriff Brown said, “it’s very apparent that he was able to convince many people for many years that he didn’t have this deep, underlying obvious mental illness that ultimately manifested itself in this terrible tragedy.”
布朗警长表示，尽管他希望“可以拨回时钟，或许做出一些改变，”但当局在那时几乎没法采取更多行动。布朗说，根据罗杰的文章来判断，“很明显，他多年来设法让很多人相信，他没有这种深藏不漏的、明确的精神疾病，而这种疾病最终在这起可怕的悲剧中得到了证实。”
Sheriff Brown said it was unclear on Sunday whether officers had specifically checked for weapons during the April visit.
布朗警长表示，截至周日尚不清楚在4月的那次探查中，警察是否特意对武器进行了检查。
Richard Martinez, whose son Christopher Michaels-Martinez was killed in the shooting, spoke to the news media on Saturday, blaming “craven, irresponsible politicians and the N.R.A.” for the deaths.
周六，此次枪击事件中的遇害者克里斯托弗·迈克尔斯-马丁内斯(Christopher Michaels-Martinez)的父亲理查德·马丁内斯(Richard Martinez)在对新闻媒体发表讲话时谴责称，“怯懦、不负责任的政客和美国步枪协会（National Rifle Association，简称NRA）”应对逝去的生命负责。
California has some of the nation’s strictest laws limiting the gun rights of people with mental illness, going much further than the federal standard. Still, it was unclear if the police would have even had the authority to search Mr. Rodger’s home for weapons when they went to check on him. California law permits law enforcement to confiscate firearms in such situations only if the person is admitted to a mental health facility on a so-called 5150, or a 72-hour psychiatric hold for evaluation.
加州的部分法律是全国最严厉的，这些法律限制精神疾病患者的持枪权，远比联邦标准严厉。然而，尚不清楚当时去查看罗杰的情况时，警方甚至是否有权在罗杰家里搜查武器。加州的法律只允许执法人员在当事人被按照所谓的5150规定送往精神病机构，接受72小时的精神病评估的情况下，没收其枪械。
California has banned high-capacity magazines, but Mr. Rodger had at least 41 low-capacity magazines, with more than enough ammunition to unleash a deadly attack, said Adam Winkler, a law professor at University of California, Los Angeles, who is an expert in gun laws.
加州禁止高容量弹夹，但加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)法学教授、枪支管理法律专家亚当·温克勒(Adam Winkler)说，罗杰至少有41个低容量弹夹，其弹药量在发起一场致命袭击时绰绰有余。
“The lesson here is that there is not necessarily some magic bullet that is going to stop these mass shootings, though I wish there were,” Mr. Winkler said.
“这件事的教训是，不一定有灵丹妙药能防止这些大规模枪击事件，尽管我希望有，”温克勒说。
More important, he said, is that people need to take threats made on social media more seriously.
他说，更重要的是，人们必须对社交媒体上的威胁更加重视。
“He was advertising to people that he was a threat; if more people had acted on it and reported it, it’s possible law enforcement would have acted differently,” Mr. Winkler said.
“他曾向人们传播自己是个威胁的消息。如果有更多的人对此采取了行动，进行了报告，执法部门可能就会采取不同的做法，”温克勒说。