LOS ANGELES — On a recent drizzly day, Esha Moya found herself standing outside a grocery store in South Los Angeles, her half-dozen paper bags falling apart in the rain, wishing she had a few small items that had been free and plentiful her entire life but are now banned in this city: plastic shopping bags.
洛杉矶——最近一个细雨蒙蒙的日子，埃沙·莫亚(Esha Moya)站在南洛杉矶一家食品杂货店外，她的六只纸袋在雨中全都破了，她真希望手里能有几只塑料购物袋。在她的生活里，塑料购物袋曾是一种免费的小物件，数量总是管够，然而现在，这座城市却禁止它的使用。
“I hate this,” said Ms. Moya, a telemarketer and a mother of two. She has begun stockpiling plastic bags at home because paper bags “are always breaking,” she said. “It’s stupid, and it makes it really hard for us.”
莫亚说，“这真讨厌。”她是一名电话销售员兼两个孩子的母亲。她已开始在家里囤积塑料袋，她说这是因为纸袋“老是破”。“这真蠢，这对我们来说真的很不方便。”
A companion to shoppers for a half-century, the plastic bag is now under siege in California, where a growing number of policy makers have come to regard it as a symbol of environmental wastefulness.
在过去的半个世纪里，塑料袋一直是购物者的必备品。而如今，却有越来越多的政策制定者开始将它视为资源损耗的一个标志，它也因此倍受攻击。
Since 2007, plastic shopping bags have been banned in nearly 100 municipalities in the state, including Los Angeles, which at the start of this year became the largest city in the country to enforce such a ban. Paper bags, which are biodegradable and easier to recycle, are often available for a small fee.
自2007年以来，加州已有将近100座城市禁用塑料购物袋，洛杉矶也在其中。今年初，洛杉矶成为全美最大的执行塑料购物袋禁令的城市。人们通常可以付一点钱购买可被生物降解且更易于回收利用的纸袋。
And now, lawmakers in Sacramento are trying to make California the first state to approve a blanket ban on this most ubiquitous of consumer products.
现在，萨克拉门托市的议员正在设法让加州成为第一个批准全面禁用这种无处不在的消费品的州。
“It has become increasingly clear to the public the environmental damage that single-use plastic bags have reaped,” said Alex Padilla, a state senator who is sponsoring legislation for a statewide ban. “This is the beginning of the phaseout of single-use plastic bags — period.”
加州参议员亚历克斯·帕迪利亚(Alex Padilla)说，“公众越来越清楚地认识到一次性塑料袋对环境造成的破坏。这是逐步淘汰一次性塑料袋的开始。”帕迪利亚是全州禁令提案的附议人。
Mr. Padilla’s measure would ban the bags at supermarkets, liquor stores and other locations where they have long been standbys. Paper bags and more robust, reusable plastic bags will be available for 10 cents, with the goal of forcing shoppers to remember their canvas bags.
帕迪利亚的提案将禁止超市、售酒商店和其他长期提供一次性塑料袋的场所提供这种袋子。人们可以花10美分（约合0.6元人民币）购买纸袋和更强韧的可反复使用的塑料袋，纸袋收费的目的是希望迫使购物者记着带上自己的帆布袋。
The case against plastic shopping bags is simple and, with more than 150 communities across the country embracing some kind of anti-bag laws, increasingly familiar. Plastic bags are used once or twice but can last up to a millennium. Only a small fraction of the bags are recycled, in large part because they jam sorting machines at recycling plants and so must be separated from other plastics. Many bags end up snagged on trees, stuck in storm drains or sitting in landfills.
全美已有150多个社区接受了某种塑料袋禁止令，如今对塑料购物袋的反对是一种既简单，又让人日渐熟悉的现象。塑料袋只会被用上一到两次，而这种材料却能持续存在达1000年。只有一小部分塑料袋会被回收，其中相当大的一个原因是，它们会堵住回收工厂内的分拣机，所以必须把它们和其他塑料制品分开。许多塑料袋最终会挂在树上，堵在下水道里，或者躺在垃圾填埋场里。
In just a few years, local bans on plastic bags have spread from San Francisco to Honolulu to the North Shore of Massachusetts. Washington, D.C., has imposed a five-cent fee, and New York City has several times considered charging for bags, most recently last year, when the proposal died at the end of the city’s legislative session. The new mayor, Bill de Blasio, has expressed support for a ban on plastic bags.
仅仅几年光景，塑料袋地方禁令就从旧金山传到了火奴鲁鲁和马萨诸塞州的北岸地区。华盛顿特区实施了五美分的塑料袋收费令，纽约市曾数次考虑对塑料袋收费，最近一次讨论发生在去年，当时，该提案在市议会会议结束时遭到否决。新市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)已表示支持实施塑料袋禁令。
Many consumers bristle at having to pay for a necessity that has always been free. “We’re already struggling,” Ms. Moya said as she waited in the rain for a taxi with her disintegrating paper bags, bought for 10 cents each. “Groceries cost enough money. Then I have to pay for bags?”
许多消费者对要花钱购买一向免费的这件必需品颇有微词。“我们已经难以支撑。”在雨中拿着破纸袋等候出租车的莫亚说，每个纸袋都花了她10美分。“买食品杂货已经花了我不少钱。然后我还必须为袋子花钱？”
The plastics industry has worked furiously to tap into that frustration. So far, the industry — behind millions of dollars spent lobbying lawmakers — has managed to beat back efforts to pass statewide bans in California and a handful of other states.
塑料制品行业在拼命努力利用这种失望。迄今为止，该行业已设法回击了加州等几个州为通过全州范围内塑料袋禁令所开展的种种行动，他们花了数百万的资金来游说议员。
Hilex Poly, one of the nation’s largest manufacturers of plastic bags, single-handedly spent more than $1 million lobbying against a bill to ban plastic in California in 2010. That bill failed, as did another attempt in 2013. Hilex Poly, based in Hartsville, S.C., has made political donations to every Democrat in the California Senate who joined Republicans in voting against last year’s bill.
2010年，仅仅是Hilex Poly——美国规模最大的塑料袋生产商之一——就耗费了100多万美元来游说议员，放弃一项在加州禁用塑料袋的提案。该提案未能通过，2013年的其他尝试也均告失败。总部位于南卡罗来纳州哈茨维尔的Hilex Poly给加州参议院每一位在去年和共和党人联手否决了那项提案的民主党议员都送上了政治捐款。
Mark Daniels, a vice president at Hilex Poly, said a ban would cost the state up to 2,000 jobs.
Hilex Poly副总裁马克·丹尼尔斯(Mark Daniels)说，这项禁令会将让加州失去多达2000个工作岗位。
“This is going to cost Californians millions and millions of dollars,” Mr. Daniels said of the current legislation. “They’re going to have to purchase millions of supposedly reusable bags from China.”
“这会让加州人多花很多很多钱。”丹尼尔斯如此评价目前的提案，“他们将不得不从中国购买数以百万计的、据称能反复使用的袋子。”
But support has been steadily growing in the California Legislature. The Los Angeles Times endorsed a statewide ban last week, and several senators who voted against the ban last year have come out in support of it this year. Some environmentalists say they now believe they have the momentum to push bans across the country, starting with California.
尽管如此，加州州议会对禁令的支持一直在稳步上升。《洛杉矶时报》(Los Angeles Times)上周表示赞同实施全州禁令，几名去年投票反对禁令的参议员今年已经开始纷纷站出来表态，支持该禁令。一些环保人士表示，现在，他们认为自己可以趁势把禁令从加州推广到全国了。
“It’s very effective, and it’s very cost-effective,” said Kerrie Romanow, director of environmental services for San Jose, Calif.
加州圣何塞市环保局局长克丽·罗曼诺夫(Kerrie Romanow)说，“禁令很有效，而且绝对物有所值。”
Since San Jose’s ban took effect in 2012, plastic-bag litter in storm drains, which can contribute to flooding, has fallen by 89 percent. In unincorporated parts of Los Angeles County, large retail stores reported a drop in the use of paper bags since a similar ban, coupled with a 10-cent fee for paper bags, took effect.
自圣何塞市的禁令在2012年生效以来，下水道里的破塑料袋已经少了89%。破塑料袋是圣何塞城市被淹的一个原因。洛杉矶县的非建制地区实行了类似的禁令，同时对纸袋收取10美分的费用，此后，大型零售商店发现纸袋使用的减少。
“People are adapting very quickly,” Ms. Romanow said. “The days of a single candy bar getting its own plastic bag are over.”
罗曼诺夫说，“人们适应地速度非常快。买块儿糖都要用塑料袋装的日子已经过去了。”