The gunman involved in a killing spree in Southern California on Friday night was able to persuade sheriff’s deputies who visited him in April that he was not a threat to himself or to others, the sheriff of Santa Barbara County, Bill Brown, said on Sunday morning.
加利福尼亚州圣巴巴拉县警长比尔·布朗(Bill Brown)周日上午表示，涉嫌周五晚间在该州南部大开杀戒的枪手曾在今年4月成功说服前去探查的警员，他对自己或他人均不构成威胁。
The gunman, identified as Elliot O. Rodger, 22, did not meet the criteria for an involuntary hold when deputies visited him as part of a welfare check on April 30, Sheriff Brown said Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.” The deputies were acting on the complaints of Mr. Rodger’s mother, who was alarmed by videos he had posted online.
这名持枪行凶者被确认为22岁的埃利奥特·O·罗杰(Elliot O. Rodger)。在周日的CNN《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中，布朗称，为了查看罗杰的状况，警察于4月30日拜访了他，不过他当时并不符合强制扣留的标准。警方之所以前去查看，是因为罗杰的母亲看到他上传到网上的视频而感到担忧，于是报警。
“They found him to be apparently shy, timid, polite, well-spoken,” Mr. Brown said. “He explained to the deputies that this was a misunderstanding,” and that while he was having some social problems they were unlikely to continue.
“他们发现，他显得害羞、内向、有礼貌，而且讲话得体，”布朗说。“他向警员解释，这是个误会”，虽然他有些社交问题，但不太可能一直延续下去。
“He was able to convince them that he was not at that point a danger to himself or anyone else,” the sheriff said.
“他设法说服了警员，他当时对自己或其他人都不构成威胁，”布朗说。
In his manifesto, which he called “My Twisted World: The Story of Elliot Rodger,” Mr. Rodger said of the visit by officers: “The police interrogated me outside for a few minutes, asking me if I had suicidal thoughts. I tactfully told them that it was all a misunderstanding, and they finally left. If they had demanded to search my room... That would have ended everything. For a few horrible seconds I thought it was all over. When they left, the biggest wave of relief swept over me.”
罗杰写了一份自白书，题为《我的扭曲世界：埃利奥特·罗杰的故事》(My Twisted World: The Story of Elliot Rodger)。文中写到了此次警方的探查：“警察在门外审了我几分钟，问我是不是有自杀的想法。我得体地告诉他们，这都是误会，然后他们终于走了。如果他们要求搜查房间的话……就全都完了。有那么几秒很吓人，我以为一切都结束了。他们走了的时候，我全身心地感到了解脱扑面而来。”
The police said that Mr. Rodger, a college student who posted videos about his anger against women for rejecting him, killed six people and wounded 13 others in the small town of Isla Vista, Calif. He stabbed three men to death in his apartment and shot and killed three students as he drove to several locations in the town.
罗杰是名大学生，曾上传视频宣泄遭女性拒绝的怒气。警方称，他在加州小镇艾拉维斯塔杀害六人，并致13人受伤。他先是在自己的公寓中刺死三名男性，随后开车在镇中的数个地点枪杀了三名学生。
The sheriff’s office identified the three men on Sunday as Cheng Yuan Hong, 20, and George Chen, 19, both of San Jose; and Weihan Wang, 20, of Fremont. All three men were students at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Mr. Hong and Mr. Chen were Mr. Rodger’s roommates. Investigators were still trying to determine whether Mr. Wang lived in the apartment or was a visitor.
县警长办公室周日确认，在公寓中遇害的三人分别是：来自圣何塞的20岁的洪程远（音译）、19岁的乔治·陈（George Chen，音译），以及来自弗里蒙特的20岁的王维汉（音译）。三人均为加州大学圣巴巴拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)的学生，前两人还是罗杰的室友。警方仍在调查，王维汉到底是住在同一公寓，还是访客。
Mr. Rodger’s parents were frantically rushing to find him Friday night after his mother opened an email that contained the manifesto and also received an alarmed call from Mr. Rodger’s therapist, according to a man who described himself as a longtime family friend.
根据一名自称罗杰家世交的男性的描述，周五晚，他的母亲打开邮件，发现这封自白书，同时又收到罗杰的心理治疗师打来的警告电话，父母二人随后拼命地赶去找他。
The family friend, Simon Astaire, said that the mother read the first four lines of the manifest and went to her son’s YouTube page, where she found the video pledging retributions. Mr. Astaire said she called her ex-husband — who was at dinner with his wife and two friends in Los Angeles — and then 911. He said the two parents both began racing north to Santa Barbara from Los Angeles, in separate cars, arriving there to learn of the shooting.
这位名为西蒙·阿斯泰尔(Simon Astaire)的友人表示，罗杰的母亲读了自白书的前四行，然后看了儿子的YouTube页面，发现了那则发誓要施加惩罚的视频。阿斯泰尔称，罗杰的母亲给前夫打了电话——他正与妻子和两个朋友在洛杉矶吃晚饭——随后拨打了911报警。他还说，罗杰的父母各自驾车，开始从洛杉矶往北向圣巴巴拉赶去，到了那里却听说了枪击的事情。
“It’s like everyone’s unbearable nightmare,” Mr. Astaire said.
“像是每个人都没法承受的那种噩梦，”阿斯泰尔说。
Mr. Rodger was found dead with a bullet wound to his head after the attacks on Friday. The police said that he had apparently taken his own life. “Obviously looking back on this, it’s a very tragic situation, and we certainly wish that we could turn the clock back and maybe change some things,” Sheriff Brown said on the CBS program “Face the Nation.” “But at the time that the deputies interacted with him, he was able to convince them that he was O.K.”
周五的袭击过后，罗杰的尸体被人发现，头部有一处枪伤。警方表示，看来他死于自杀。“显然，回过头来看这事让人痛心，我们当然希望可以拨回时钟，或许能有所改变，”布朗警长在CBS的《面对国民》(Face the Nation)节目上说。“可是，警员当时与他交流的时候，他设法说服了他们，让他们相信自己没问题。”
Early Sunday morning the streets of Isla Vista were extremely quiet, save for a few bicyclists and news crews. The town was pockmarked with remnants of the shooting, like the broken glass of a storefront in the middle of town. A pile of flowers and candles sat on the lawn of Alpha Phi Sorority house, where the shooting began. A hastily made sign in red marker stated that the sorority would not speak about the shooting.
周日清晨，艾拉维斯塔的街头极为宁静，只有几个骑自行车的人和新闻摄制组。镇上还有枪击后留下的零星痕迹，比如中城的一座店面的玻璃碎了。在枪击开始的阿尔法佛爱姐妹会(Alpha Phi Sorority)，会所门前的草坪上摆放着鲜花和蜡烛。匆忙竖起的一个标牌上用红色记号笔写着，姐妹会谢绝就枪击事件接受采访。
Sheriff Brown, on “Face the Nation,” said that the deputies who had visited Mr. Rodger in response to concerns raised by his family were not the only professionals who had not understood the extent of the man’s problems.
在《面对国民》节目中，布朗警长称，出于罗杰家人的担心而前去探访的警员，并不是唯一没能意识到问题严重性的专业人士。
“When you read his autobiography and manifesto that he wrote, it’s very apparent that he was able to convince many people for many years that he didn’t have this deep, underlying obvious mental illness that also manifested itself in this terrible tragedy,” Sheriff Brown said. The department so far, he said, had found no indication that anyone close to Mr. Rodger could have foreseen Friday’s events.
“读他写的自传和自白书，很明显，他多年来设法让很多人相信，他没有这种深藏不漏的、明确的精神疾病，而这种疾病也在这起可怕的悲剧中得到了证实，”布朗说。他还表示，警局目前尚未发现迹象表明，罗杰身边的任何人本可以预见到上周五的事件。
“In reading his manifesto, I think that he was able to fly under the radar, so to speak, in terms of his likelihood or propensity to hurt anyone else,” the sheriff said.
“读他的自白书，我想，在伤害别人的可能性或倾向方面，这么说吧，他成功躲过了雷达，”布朗称。
While Mr. Rodger had received mental health treatment and counseling, he had neither been institutionalized nor held involuntarily for treatment, the sheriff said. “And those are the two triggers that actually would have made him a prohibited person in terms of a firearms purchase. So he was able, sadly, to obtain those three firearms” legally.
布朗表示，尽管罗杰接受了精神健康治疗与咨询，但他从未入院或接受强制治疗。“这两者才真的会导致他被列入禁止购买枪支的名单。因此，可悲的是，他能够合法获取了三把枪。”
Sheriff Brown said the deputies who visited Mr. Rodger “probably” spoke to him about the three handguns he had bought last year, but added, “I’m not sure an actual weapons check was conducted.”
布朗警长称，探访罗杰的警员“很可能”与他讨论了他去年购买的三只手枪，不过又接着说，“我不确定是不是进行了严格意义上的武器核查。”
They reported two other encounters with Mr. Rodger, including once when he reported that he had been attacked and once when he called because he wanted to file charges against a roommate for stealing three candles with a value of $22.
警方还通报了与罗杰的另两次交道：一次是他报告遇袭，另一次则是他报警，想要对盗窃了三根蜡烛的室友提出指控，涉案金额22美元（约合140元人民币）。
The roommate in that incident was Mr. Hong, the district attorney for Santa Barbara County, Joyce E. Dudley, said. He was charged with a petty theft violation and pleaded guilty, she said.
圣巴巴拉县的地区检察官乔伊丝·E·达德利(Joyce E. Dudley)表示，卷入那起事件的室友为洪程远。他受到了轻微盗窃违规的指控，并对此表示认罪。