In delivering aid to drought-stricken California last week, President Obama and his aides cited the state as an example of what could be in store for much of the rest of the country as human-caused climate change intensifies.
上周，在为遭遇严重干旱的加利福尼亚州提供援助时，美国总统奥巴马和他的助手称，随着人类造成的气候变化问题的加剧，加州的例子可能成为这个国家很大部分其他地区的前车之鉴。
But in doing so, they were pushing at the boundaries of scientific knowledge about the relationship between climate change and drought. While a trend of increasing drought that may be linked to global warming has been documented in some regions, including parts of the Mediterranean and in the Southwestern United States, there is no scientific consensus yet that it is a worldwide phenomenon. Nor is there definitive evidence that it is causing California’s problems.
然而，他们的这种说法，触及了关于气候变化和干旱之间关系的科学知识的边界。尽管包括地中海部分地区和美国西南部的一些区域出现了干旱增多的趋势，而这种趋势可能与全球变暖有关，但目前科学界并没有共识认为这种现象是全球性的。也没有确凿证据表明，加州的旱情是这个原因造成的。
In fact, the most recent computer projections suggest that as the world warms, California should get wetter, not drier, in the winter, when the state gets the bulk of its precipitation. That has prompted some of the leading experts to suggest that climate change most likely had little role in causing the drought.
事实上，最新的电脑预测显示，随着全球变暖，加州在冬天应该变得更湿润，而不是更干燥。加州很大一部分降水发生在冬季。一些著名的专家因此指出，这场干旱的发生极有可能跟气候变化没有关系。
“I’m pretty sure the severity of this thing is due to natural variability,” said Richard Seager, a climate scientist who studies water issues at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)拉蒙特-多尔蒂地球观测中心(Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory)的气候专家理查德·西格(Richard Seager)说，“我相当肯定，这次旱情如此严重是因为气候自然变异。”
To be sure, 2013 was the driest year in 119 years of record keeping in California. But extreme droughts have happened in the state before, and the experts say this one bears a notable resemblance to some of those, including a crippling drought in 1976 and 1977.
可以肯定，2013年是加州有记录的119年里最干旱的一年。但是加州以往也曾出现过极端干旱的天气，专家说，这一次显然与之前的某些情况有明显的相似性，比如1976年和1977年造成严重后果的那次旱灾。
Over all, drought seems to be decreasing in the central United States and certain other parts of the world, though that is entirely consistent with the longstanding prediction that wet areas of the world will get wetter in a warming climate, even as the dry ones get drier.
整体上看，在美国中部以及世界的某些其他地方，干旱状况似乎在减少，不过这和一种长期的预测完全一致，即在变暖的气候中，世界上的湿润地区将变得更加湿润，同时干旱地区会更加干旱。
What may be different about this drought is that, whatever the cause, the effects appear to have been made worse by climatic warming. And in making that case last week, scientists said, the administration was on solid ground.
这次旱情的一个不同寻常之处在于，无论它是何种原因造成的，其影响似乎都因为气候变暖而加剧了。科学家们上周在阐述这个观点时说，政府的说法有确凿的依据。
California has been warming along with most regions of the United States, and temperatures in recent months have been markedly higher than during the 1976-77 drought. In fact, for some of the state’s most important agricultural regions, summer lasted practically into January, with high temperatures of 10 or 15 degrees above normal on some days.
加州变暖的同时，美国的其他大部分地区也一样在变暖，最近几个月的气温明显高于1976到1977年旱灾时的温度。事实上，对于该州一些最重要的农业区域来说，夏季实际上能持续到1月份，有些天的最高温度甚至比正常状况高出10或15度。
The consequence, scientists say, has been that any moisture the state does get evaporates more rapidly, intensifying the effects of the drought on agriculture in particular. “We are going through a pattern we’ve seen before, but we’re doing it in a warmer environment,” said Michael Anderson, the California state climatologist.
科学家们说，其结果就是，该州出现的任何湿气都会更迅速地蒸发，这尤其加剧了干旱对农业的影响。加州政府的气候学家迈克尔·安德森(Michael Anderson)说，“我们目前经历的模式是以往经历过的，只不过现在的环境更温暖。”
The White House science adviser, John P. Holdren, said in a briefing last week: “Scientifically, no single episode of extreme weather, no storm, no flood, no drought can be said to have been caused by global climate change. But the global climate has now been so extensively impacted by the human-caused buildup of greenhouse gases that weather practically everywhere is being influenced by climate change.”
白宫科学顾问约翰·P·霍德伦(John P. Holdren)上周在一次新闻发布会上说：“科学上来说，没有任何一次极端天气、风暴、洪水或干旱的状况可以被说成是全球气候变化引起的。但人类排放的温室气体增加，已经对全球气候造成了如此广泛的影响，实际上任何地方的天气都在受到气候变化的影响。”
The drought eased a bit with heavy rains in Northern California this month, but many major reservoirs have only half the water expected for this time of year. “I think the situation is still pretty severe,” said Prof. Alex Hall, who studies climate at the University of California, Los Angeles.
本月加州北部降下大雨之后，旱情有所缓解，但是许多大型水库的蓄水量只有这个时节预期蓄水量的一半。加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)研究气候的艾利克斯·霍尔 (Alex Hall)教授说，“我认为情况仍然相当严峻。”
California gets much of its water from snow in the winter along the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada. That means 38 million people and a $45 billion agricultural economy are critically dependent on about five heavy storms a year.
加州很大部分的用水来自内华达山脉西坡的冬季降雪。这意味着，有3800万人口和450亿美元的农业经济严重依赖一年大约五次的暴风雪。
If a ridge of high atmospheric pressure develops off the California coast, it can easily push moisture-bearing winds to the north, so that the water falls closer to Seattle than Sacramento. Just such a ridge has been parked off California for much of the last three years.
如果加州沿岸形成了高气压脊，它可以轻易把潮湿的气流带到北部，降水的位置将更接近西雅图，而不是萨克拉门托。过去三年，加州沿岸几乎一直在形成这样的高气压脊。
It may take years to resolve the scientific uncertainty. But with California’s growing population, the state faces increasing pressure to resolve tensions involved in apportioning its water among city dwellers, farmers, industry and an environment under increasing strain from global warming.
要解决科学上的不确定性可能要花上多年时间。但随着加州人口不断增长，加州面临着日益增大的压力，要在城市居民、农民、工业界，以及承受的全球变暖压力越来越大的自然环境之间，解决水资源分配的紧张状况。
Dr. Seager of Columbia University pointed out that much of the West Coast had been in a drought of fluctuating severity for 15 years. In some areas, moreover, the warmer climate is causing winter precipitation to fall as rain rather than snow, meaning less melting snowpack to help parched states through the hotter summers.
哥伦比亚大学的西格指出，西海岸的很多地区过去15年一直经历着不同程度的干旱。此外，在一些地区，气候变暖正在导致冬季的降水以降雨而不是降雪的形式出现，这意味着，能够留到更炎热的夏季再融化，从而滋润干旱土地的积雪减少了。
“It all adds up across the Southwest to an increasingly stressed water system,” he said. “That’s what they might as well get ready for.”
他说，“这些因素共同作用，在整个西南部地区导致水利系统承受的压力日益增大。他们也应该为那些情况做好准备。”