NORDEN, Calif. — Cattle ranchers have had to sell portions of their herd for lack of water. Sacramento and other municipalities have imposed severe water restrictions. Wildfires broke out this week in forests that are usually too wet to ignite. Ski resorts that normally open in December are still closed; at one here in the Sierra Nevada that is open, a bear wandered onto a slope full of skiers last week, apparently not hibernating because of the balmy weather.
加利福尼亚州诺登——由于缺水，养牛的牧场主不得不卖掉部分牛群。萨克拉门托和其他城市实行了严格的限制用水措施。本周，在一些原本极其潮湿不易点火的森林爆发了野火。通常在12月就会开放的一些滑雪场，目前仍处于关闭状态；而上周，在内华达山脉一处已经开放的滑雪场，一头熊漫步到了满是滑雪者的坡道上，显然是由于天气暖和，它没有冬眠。
On Friday, Gov. Jerry Brown made it official: California is suffering from a drought, perhaps one for the record books. The water shortage has Californians trying to deal with problems that usually arise in midsummer.
上周五，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)正式表示：该州正在经历也许是有记录以来最严重的一次旱灾。由于水资源短缺，加州人正在着手应对一些通常在盛夏才会出现的问题。
With little snow in the forecast, experts are warning that this drought, after one of the driest years on record last year, could be as disruptive as the severe droughts of the 1970s.
天气预报也没有显示什么降雪，专家们警告说，去年已经是有记录以来最干旱的年份之一，紧随其后的今年这场旱灾，其破坏程度可能跟上世纪70年代的严重干旱差不多。
Under state law, that would allow the governor to “waive laws or regulations and expedite some funding,” said Jeanine Jones, deputy drought manager for the State Department of Water Resources. “It does not create a new large pot of money for drought response or make federal funding available.”
根据加州法律，在这种情况下，州长可以“放弃法律或法规，加快一些资金的到位”。加州水资源部(Department of Water Resources)的抗旱副主管珍妮·琼斯(Jeanine Jones)说。“这不会带来大量抗旱资金，也无法动用联邦资金。”
Signs of drought are everywhere, affecting vast sectors of the economy. A sense of dread is building among farmers, many whom have already let fields go fallow. Without more water, an estimated 200,000 acres of prime agriculture land will go unplanted in Fresno County, according to Westlands Water District officials. Cattle ranchers accustomed to letting cows graze on rain-fed grass have had to rely on bought hay or reduce their herds.
随处可见的干旱正在影响加州经济的众多领域。在农场主中，恐慌情绪不断上升，很多人已经开始休耕。威斯兰德供水处(Westlands Water District)的一名官员说，如果没有更多的水，弗雷斯诺县估计会有20万英亩（约合120万亩）优质耕地不会种植任何作物。习惯了让牛群在牧场上吃雨养鲜草的养牛户，也不得不购买干草或者减少牛的数量了。
Clergy of all faiths have been exhorting the faithful to pray for precipitation. “May God open the heavens, and let his mercy rain down upon our fields and mountains,” Bishop Jaime Soto, the state’s Roman Catholic conference president, said last week. The Sacramento Valley chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations followed suit by announcing that area mosques would offer the traditional rain prayer, Salatul Istisqa.
各种信仰的神职人员一直在呼吁信徒为降水祷告。“愿上帝打开天门，在我们的农田和山间洒下仁慈。”加州天主教主教团主席杰米·索托(Jaime Soto)主教上周说。美国-伊斯兰关系委员会(Council on American-Islamic Relations)萨克拉门托河谷分会也进行效法，宣布该区域的清真寺将举办传统的求雨祷告祈雨拜(Salatul Istisqa)。
California gets much of its water from the snowpack of the Sierra Nevada, so towns like this one have a front-row view of the problem. The base at Donner Ski Ranch, a family-owned resort with limited snow-making capacity, was less than a foot of snow this week. Usually, it would be several feet deep in January, like other resorts in the Sierra.
加州的很大一部分水资源来自于内华达山脉的积雪，所以这样的城镇会遭受最直观的影响。家族经营的度假胜地唐纳滑雪场(Donner Ski Ranch)人工造雪能力有限，本周那里的积雪厚度还不到1英尺（30.48厘米）。而通常情况下，那里每年1月的积雪会厚达数英尺，内华达山脉的其他度假地也是一样。
“This is the worst I’ve ever seen,” said Lincoln Kauffman, 55, the resort’s general manager, who has been skiing in these mountains since the early 1970s. “I think 1976 and 1977 were comparable to this — that was a really tough one. I remember the restrictions on showers and flushing toilets.”
“这是我见过的最严重的旱灾，”滑雪场总经理林肯·考夫曼(Lincoln Kauffman)说，他现年55岁，从70年代初就开始在内华达山脉滑雪。“我觉得1976年和1977年的情况跟现在有些相似——那一次的旱情也十分严重。记得当时对淋浴和马桶冲水都进行了限制。”
Near Sacramento, the Folsom Lake reservoir’s level has fallen so much that remnants of a Gold Rush-era ghost town are now visible. The San Juan Water District, which serves communities near Sacramento and relies on water from Folsom Lake, has asked customers to reduce their water usage by 20 percent and in some areas cease all outdoor watering. Santa Cruz, some 75 miles south of San Francisco, banned restaurants from providing customers with drinking water unless it is requested. In Glendora, near Los Angeles, but also in Humboldt County in far Northern California, firefighters have been battling wildfires that normally do not happen during the winter.
在萨克拉门托附近的福尔瑟姆湖水库，水位下降非常严重，连淘金时代一座空城的遗迹都显露了出来。圣胡安水务局(San Juan Water District)负责为萨克拉门托附近的社区供水，水源来自福尔瑟姆湖，该局已要求用户缩减20%的用水量，在某些地区停止一切户外浇水。位于旧金山以南约75英里（约合120公里）的圣克鲁斯，已经禁止餐馆主动为顾客提供饮用水，除非顾客提出要求。在洛杉矶附近的格伦多拉，以及北加州偏远的洪堡县，消防员一直在与野火作战。而野火通常并不会在冬季出现。
“We still have extreme fire conditions throughout the state in January,” said Dennis Mathisen, a spokesman for the state’s Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. “This is definitely not the norm for us.”
“这都一月了，加州上下还在出现重大火情。在我们这里，这绝对不正常。”加州林业及消防部(Department of Forestry and Fire Protection)发言人丹尼斯·马蒂森(Dennis Mathisen)说。
The snowpack plays a critical part in what is one of the world’s most sophisticated and complex water delivery systems, supplying water to more than 25 million people and the $44.7 billion agricultural industry. The snow that piles up on the Sierra Nevada’s 400-mile range during the winter acts as a reserve that starts to melt in the spring. The melting snow drains into rivers that feed reservoirs below, providing water to densely populated communities hundreds of miles south in Southern California.
加州供水系统是世界上最先进和复杂的供水系统之一，为2500多万人以及价值447亿美元（约合2700亿元人民币）的农业产业提供水资源，而积雪在加州的供水系统中起着关键作用。冬天在内华达山脉400英里山脉堆积的雪是一种水源储备，在春天开始融化。积雪融化流入河中，注入下游的水库，为向南数百英里以外人口稠密的南加州社区供水。
Given the snowpack’s significance to the state’s farmers and water boards, winter snow surveys are carried out monthly starting every January. In a ritual that often makes it onto the front pages of newspapers in California, the chief snow surveyor, Frank Gehrke, measures the depth of the snowpack every month by plunging aluminum tubes into the same spot along Highway 50 in the Sierra.
鉴于积雪对加州农场主和水资源委员会的重要意义，该州每年从一月开始对冬雪进行月度测量。在途经内华达山脉的50号公路上，首席积雪测量员弗兰克·格尔克(Frank Gehrke)每月都会在同一个地点把铝管伸入雪中，测量积雪深度，这一仪式往往会登上加州报纸的头版。
After the survey this month, the Department of Water Resources said that the snowpack was only 20 percent of the historical average.
本月的调查完成后，加州水资源部表示，积雪深度只有历史平均水平的20%。
The lack of precipitation has been caused in large part by a high-pressure zone stretching along the coast from Oregon to northern Mexico. The zone acts like a mountain range, blocking storm systems from striking land. Storms are pushed instead north into Canada and Alaska, contributing to the extreme cold weather seen in recent weeks across much of the Midwest and Northeast. Though such high-pressure zones are normal during the winter, they usually dissipate and re-form, allowing storms to blanket the state in snow and rain.
这种缺少降水的状况，在很大程度上是由笼罩在俄勒冈到墨西哥北部沿海的一个高压区造成的。这个高压区就像一座山，阻断了风暴袭击陆地。结果风暴被推动，北上进入加拿大和阿拉斯加，帮助形成了最近几个星期横跨中西和东北大部地区的极寒天气。虽然冬季形成这样的高压区很正常，但它们通常会消散，然后再重新形成，让暴风雨有机会以雨雪的形式席卷加州。
“We’ve got a ridge of high pressure sitting overhead, and it is not budging,” said Diana Henderson, a forecaster with the National Weather Service.
“一个高压脊覆盖在我们头上，并且它一动也不动。”美国国家气象局(National Weather Service)预报员戴安娜·亨德森(Diana Henderson)说。