PERRIS, Calif. — To tell the police the horrific tale of how her parents were holding her and 12 siblings captive, a 17-year-old girl escaped before dawn Sunday through a window in the family’s Southern California home and used a deactivated cellphone to call the only telephone number that still worked: 911.
加利福尼亚佩里斯——周日天亮之前，一名17岁的少女从窗口逃出了她在南加州的家，用一部停机的手机拨通了一个唯一还能拨的号码：911，给警方讲述了一个她的父母是如何囚禁她和另外12个兄弟姐妹的可怕故事。
Why the parents, David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49, kept their 13 children locked up — and for how long — remains unknown.
她的父母戴维·艾伦·特平(David Allen Turpin)和49岁的露易丝·安娜·特平(Louise Anna Turpin)为什么要监禁自己的13个孩子——以及他们被监禁了多久——仍旧未知。
But the few details the authorities revealed Tuesday painted a disturbing portrait of prolonged abuse and neglect for the siblings, seven adults and six children, ages 2 to 29. The police found three of the siblings chained to furniture inside the house. All were malnourished, to the point that the adults were so small they looked much younger.
但当局周二透露的少量细节，勾勒出这些年龄在2岁到29岁不等的七名成人和六名儿童是如何遭长期虐待和疏于照管的惊恐画面。警方发现，其中三人被拴在家具上。孩子们全都营养不良，成年的孩子非常矮小，看起来比实际年龄小得多。
“I wish I could come to you today with information that would explain why this happened,” Capt. Greg Fellows, a spokesman for the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, said Tuesday.
“我也希望今天能给你们提供更多的信息，可以解释事发原因，”里佛赛德县警局发言人、副巡官格雷格·费洛斯(Capt. Greg Fellows)周二表示。
The parents, both arrested on nine counts of torture and child endangerment, remain in jail. When sheriff’s deputies arrived at the house on Sunday, “the mother was perplexed as to why we were at that residence,” Captain Fellows said.
这对父母均以九项虐待和危害儿童罪名被捕、收监。当警方周日出现在他们家中时，“那位母亲还很纳闷我们有何贵干，”费洛斯说。
Sheriff’s deputies had never before been called to the house in Perris, an exurb about 70 miles southeast of Los Angeles, since the Turpin family moved there in 2014. Neither had the Riverside County Department of Public Social Services, said its director, Susan von Zabern. Sunday “was the first opportunity we had to intervene,” she said.
自从特平一家2014年搬到这片位于洛杉矶东南部大约70英里（约合110公里）的远郊区之后，警方还从未被召唤至佩里斯的这栋房屋。里佛赛德县公共社会服务局(Riverside County Department of Public Social Services)主管苏珊·冯察贝恩(Susan von Zabern)说，他们的人也没有去过。周日“是我们第一次介入的机会”，她说。
“I don’t think we have enough information to know how long any of the children have been subjected to this,” Ms. von Zabern said. “Their condition indicates it has been a prolonged period of time.”
“我认为，我们目前没有掌握足够的信息来了解这些孩子像这样忍受了多久，”冯察贝恩说。“他们的情况表明，这已经持续了很长一段时间。”
The agency will seek court authorization to provide oversight and care for the children, including the adults if necessary, she added.
她补充说，该机构将寻求法院批准，为特平家的儿童提供监管和照顾；如果需要的话，还包括那些已成年的孩子。
The family previously lived in Murrieta, Calif., and in Texas, and Captain Fellows said he had no information on whether the family was religious, as their social media posts indicated.
特平一家过去住在加州穆列塔和德克萨斯州，费洛斯说，他并不清楚这家人是否如社交媒体所指出的那样信教。
Mr. Turpin had registered with the state to run a private school, the Sandcastle Day School, at home. The only children enrolled were his own, as far as investigators could tell, Captain Fellows said.
戴维·艾伦·特平曾在州政府登记，在家经营一所名为沙城堡日校(Sandcastle Day School)的私立学校。费洛斯称，据调查人员目前所知，唯一入学的儿童就是他自己的孩子。
“They were home-schooled at that residence,” Captain Fellows said. “There’s no indication that there were any other students, or children residing in that residence.”
“他们在那栋房子里接受家庭教育，”费洛斯说。“没有证据表明还有别的学生或儿童住在那栋房子里。”
For now, the seven adults — five women and two men — have been hospitalized at Corona Regional Medical Center, where they are staying together in a secure area, said Mark Uffer, the hospital’s chief executive. He described their condition as stable.
现在，七名成年子女——包括五名女性和两名男性——都在科罗纳地区医疗中心(Corona Regional Medical Center)接受住院治疗，该院院长马克·乌非尔(Mark Uffer)称，他们一起待在一个安全的区域。他表示他们的状况十分稳定。
“They’re very friendly, they’re very cooperative, and I believe that they’re hopeful that life will get better for them,” Mr. Uffer said. Asked about the conditions in which the siblings were found, he responded, “I’ve never seen this.”
“他们非常友好，非常合作，我相信他们对自己的生活会好起来抱着希望，”乌非尔说。当被问到这些兄弟姐妹在被发现时的状况，他回答道，“我从没见过这样的事。”
“The way my staff responded, I think they were horrified.”
“从我的员工的反应看来，我觉得他们都震惊了。”
Dr. Sophia Grant, medical director of the child abuse and neglect unit at Riverside University Health System, said that while she could not speak to specifics regarding the underage siblings, treatment for abuse victims would generally require slow feeding, diagnostic exams like CT scans, and long-term psychological assistance.
在加州大学里佛赛德分校健康系统(Riverside University Health System)负责管理儿童虐待和忽视小组的索菲亚·格兰特博士(Sophia Grant)说，虽然她不能透露几名未成年孩子的具体状况，但治疗被虐待受害者一般需要缓慢的喂食，接受例如CT扫描一类的诊断检查，以及长期的心理辅导。
“You have to imagine that these kids are going to need a lot of support,” she said. “It’s not going to be anything that you go to a few sessions of therapy, and you’re all better.”
“你可以想像，这些孩子将需要很多支持，”她说。“这不是你参加几个疗程就能好起来的事。”
The police described the Turpins’ home as filthy, dark and foul-smelling. News crews were stationed outside on Tuesday, as neighbors continued to wrestle with the idea that so many children were being neglected in the one-story, rusty red house with the tiled roof.
警方称，特平的家肮脏、昏暗，弥漫着恶臭。新闻报道团队周二驻守在屋外；这么多儿童在这栋带瓦顶的铁红色平房里疏于照顾，邻居们仍在消化这件事。
Early Tuesday morning, Kimberly Milligan, 50, who lives across the street, said she had only encountered the Turpins once, when she and her son saw three of the siblings — who they thought were 11 to 14 years old — hanging Christmas lights in 2015.
50岁的金伯利·米利根(Kimberly Milligan)住在特平家的街对面，周二一早，她说她只在2015年遇见过这家人一次，当时她和儿子看到这户人家的三个孩子——他们以为三人只有11到14岁——在挂圣诞彩灯。
“We said, ‘Hey, your decorations look really nice.’ And they froze,” she said. “They looked absolutely terrified. They were childlike in the sense that, ‘I’m invisible, you can’t see me.’ That was their only defense mechanism.”
“我们对他们说，‘嗨，你们的装饰看起来真漂亮。’然后他们呆住了，”她说。“他们看起来吓坏了。他们就像小孩一样，感觉在说，‘我是隐形的，你看不见我。’那就是他们唯一的防卫机制。”
The Milligans tried to reassure the siblings that they were just being friendly, but when their expression did not change, the two backed off. The Christmas lights stayed up until February, she said, and the nativity star in the window remains there to this day. The family’s three Volkswagens remained parked in the driveway on Tuesday. One of them sported a vanity plate that appeared to proclaim the Turpins’ love for Disneyland.
米利根母子试图让三人相信，他们只是想示好，但三人的表情毫无变化，两人于是就走了。圣诞彩灯一直保留到了2月，她说，而那颗窗户上的圣诞星星则今天还留着。周二，特平一家的三辆大众车还停在车道上。其中一辆的个性车牌似乎在表达这家人对迪士尼乐园的喜爱。
“I can’t begin to imagine the pain and suffering that they have endured,” Mayor Michael Vargas of Perris said of the siblings. “This is a very happy and tight, hardworking family community.”
“我无法想像他们所承受的痛苦和折磨，”佩里斯市长米歇尔·瓦尔加斯(Michael Vargas)这样谈到这些孩子。“这是一个非常幸福、关系紧密、努力奋斗的家庭社区。”