WASHINGTON — When Ashraf Ghani, the president of Afghanistan, stepped up to speak at a formal dinner in his honor this week at the State Department, he looked out at a room of familiar faces, a fact he quickly made clear.
华盛顿——阿富汗总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)于本周出席美国国务院(State Department)为他举行的正式宴会时，面对的是一屋子熟悉的面孔——他的发言很快就表明了这一点。
He referred to Madeleine Albright, seated beside him, as his “mentor.” He called Secretary of State John Kerry, the host, “a remarkable friend of Afghanistan.” He joked that retired Gen. David Petraeus, who sat one table over, rarely slept while commanding American forces in Afghanistan.
他把坐在旁边的玛德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)称作“导师”。把东道主约翰·克里(John Kerry)称作“阿富汗人民的好朋友”。他开玩笑说，坐在另一桌的退役将军大卫·彼得雷乌斯(David Petraeus)在指挥驻阿富汗美军时几乎没合过眼。
“I need glasses to see everybody,” he said. The ties that bound Mr. Ghani to many of the dinner guests on Tuesday reflected a little-noticed story in American’s longest war: After more than 13 years of nation-building in Afghanistan, much of the American national security establishment is intimately familiar with many of nation’s most senior officials, Mr. Ghani foremost among them, and loath to see a hasty withdrawal lead to a repeat of what has happened in Iraq.
“我要戴上眼镜才能把每个人看清楚，”他说。加尼和该宴会一众宾客之间的关系，反映了在美国卷入的最旷日持久的战争中，有一个没太受到关注的事实：在阿富汗经历了13余载的国家重建之后，美国国家安全部门里的很多权势人物，都对阿富汗高官非常熟悉，对加尼尤为如此；他们不希望看到美军仓促撤离给伊拉克带来的恶果在阿富汗重现。
So when Mr. Ghani landed in Washington on Sunday to start his first visit here as president, he came prepared for a number of appearances, speeches and meetings that were choreographed by Afghan and American officials to produce a renewed United States commitment to Afghanistan. And that is what Mr. Ghani achieved on Tuesday after meeting with President Obama, who announced that the United States was backing off plans this year to cut by nearly half its force of roughly 9,800 troops in Afghanistan.
因此，在周日首次以阿富汗总统的身份到访华盛顿的时候，加尼已经为大量的露面、演讲和会议做好了准备，这些都是阿富汗和美国官员事先安排好的，为的是促使美国能延续对阿富汗的承诺。周二和奥巴马总统会面后，加尼如愿以偿：奥巴马宣布暂缓本年度的撤军计划——目前约有9800美军驻扎在阿富汗，其中将近一半原定于今年撤离。
The two men said the troops were needed to train and advise Afghan forces, who are doing the bulk of the fighting, through what is expected to be a bloody summer push by the Taliban. Other American officials also said that keeping the current force in place would allow American special operations troops and the Central Intelligence Agency to operate in southern and eastern Afghanistan, where the insurgents are strongest and where Al Qaeda’s presence is concentrated.
两人称，这些美军得留下来训练和指导阿富汗军队，后者即将作为战斗主力迎击塔利班(Taliban)——据信塔利班将于今年夏天展开攻势，掀起血雨腥风。其他一些美国官员还表示，维持既有的驻阿美军规模不变，美国特种作战部队和中央情报局工就可以在阿富汗南部和东部地区放开手脚执行任务了，那里是叛乱分子和基地组织(Al Qaeda)活动最猖獗的地方。
Yet the shift in American plans is as much a result of the dire situation in Afghanistan as it is a broad lobbying effort by a powerful cross-section of the American foreign policy and national security establishment, including many of the dinner guests on Tuesday. In recent months, even as Mr. Obama has sought to draw an end to American’s role in Afghanistan’s war, a number of influential figures in Washington have pressed hard in public and in private to keep the United States involved.
不过，美国更改撤军计划，一方面是出于对阿富汗严峻形势的考量，另一方面也是美国外交和国家安全领域一群权势人物——包括周二那场宴会中的很多宾客——多方游说的结果。最近几个月来，奥巴马一直设法让美国从阿富汗战争中脱身，但华盛顿的一些极具影响力的人士却在公开及私人场合施压，想让美国维持驻军。
To help make their case, they repeatedly cited the election of Mr. Ghani, a Columbia graduate who lived in Washington for 15 years, as a central reason to stay in Afghanistan, despite the relative weakness of his government. Ahead of Tuesday’s meeting at the White House, for instance, a group of 23 former American ambassadors and senior officials released an open letter urging the United States to keep troops in Afghanistan.
为了显得有说服力，他们多次把毕业于哥伦比亚大学、在华盛顿住过15年的加尼当选阿富汗总统引为不该撤军的主要理由，尽管他领导的政府十分孱弱。奥巴马和加尼周二会面前，23名前美国大使和高级官员发表了一封公开信，敦促美国继续驻军阿富汗。
“Everybody was willing to help with the trip. Senators, congressmen, generals, secretaries of state,” said an American official involved in planning the visit. The official asked not to be identified because the Obama administration does not want Mr. Ghani portrayed as being too close to the United States, an image that plays badly in Afghanistan.
“人人都乐于为此次访问出力。包括参议员、众议员、将军和国务卿，”参与安排加尼访美事宜的一位美国官员表示。该官员要求匿名，因为奥巴马政府不想加尼被刻画成一个跟美国太过亲近的人物，这种形象在阿富汗只能起到负面作用。
“Look, the Afghans, they can be maddening,” the official said. But, he added, with Hamid Karzai, the former Afghan president whose anti-American rhetoric exhausted good will in Washington, now out of office, “it’s amazing how many people are willing to help out if the Afghans ask.”
“是这样，阿富汗人有时候是让人很恼火的，”这位官员说。但他也说，随着前总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)的下台，“现在只要阿富汗人张口，很多人乐意帮他们，这一点非常令人吃惊。”卡尔扎伊的反美言论一度曾把华盛顿对这个国家的善意消磨殆尽。
To be sure, Mr. Ghani is not slavishly pro-American. For example, he once helped torpedo a new measure regulating mining in Afghanistan, which was pushed hard by American officials but which Mr. Ghani saw as too friendly to foreign businesses. And he advised Mr. Karzai to release prisoners from the former main American prison in Afghanistan last year, a move that infuriated American officials.
加尼无疑也不是点头哈腰的亲美人士。例如他曾出手毁掉了一项阿富汗采矿监管措施。美国官员一直在大力推动该措施，但加尼认为它对外国企业过分友好。去年他建议卡尔扎伊将美国设在阿富汗的主要监狱中的囚犯释放，此举激怒了美国官员。
Mr. Ghani and many of his advisers also know the United States well, and they decided to thank soldiers for their sacrifices, and taxpayers for the billions spent to aid Afghanistan in every speech Mr. Ghani gave in Washington, officials from both countries said.
加尼和他的多名顾问还对美国知根知底，两国官员说，他在华盛顿的每次演讲都会感谢美军士兵的奉献，感谢拿出数十亿美元援助阿富汗的纳税人。
But American officials helped the Afghans choreograph some of the more poignant touches, such as inviting the widow of an American general killed in Kabul last year by an Afghan soldier to a speech Mr. Ghani delivered on Monday at the Pentagon, allowing the Afghan leader to thank her publicly for her family’s sacrifice.
不过一些格外让人动容的场面是美国官员帮阿富汗筹划的，比如周一加尼在五角大楼的讲话，邀请了去年在喀布尔被一名阿富汗士兵杀死的美国将军的遗孀到场，好让阿富汗领导人公开向她表达谢意，感谢她的家庭做出的牺牲。
There was also behind-the-scenes lobbying, and not all of it came for free. Shortly after taking office in September, Mr. Ghani’s government hired the Podesta Group for $50,000 a month to lobby on behalf of Afghanistan and help with public relations, according to filings with the Justice Department. One of the founders of the firm was John D. Podesta, who served as counselor to President Obama and represented the administration at Mr. Ghani’s inauguration. Mr. Podesta is no longer involved with the firm.
此外还有幕后的游说工作，而这些不见得都是免费的。据司法部(Justice Department)文件显示，就任总统后不久的9月，加尼的政府以每月5万美元的价格聘请波德斯塔集团(Podesta Group)作为阿富汗的游说代表，并参与公关工作。该集团的其中一位创始人约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)曾任奥巴马总统的顾问，代表美国政府出席了加尼的总统就职仪式。波德斯塔现在已经离开该集团。
Mr. Podesta, in fact, was one of the 14 dinner guests on Tuesday to whom Mr. Ghani referred by name in his remarks. As a result of the groundwork laid by many of those guests, the Obama administration was largely in sync with Mr. Ghani even before this week’s visit.
事实上，波德斯塔是周二赴宴的12位嘉宾之一，加尼在讲话中提到了他的名字。正是在场的几位嘉宾所做的铺垫工作，让加尼可以在赴美之前就已经和奥巴马总统达成相当程度的共识。
On Wednesday, Mr. Ghani’s final full day in Washington, it was congressional critics of the war, who have been put off by wasteful spending and Mr. Karzai’s tone, that the Afghan president sought to win over.
周三是加尼在华盛顿的最后一个整天，他的目标是争取国会中那些反战人士，他们一直很反感由此带来的开支挥霍，还有卡尔扎伊的反美论调。
In an address to a joint meeting of Congress, Mr. Ghani reprised much of what he had said over the previous days. He again cited the more than 2,300 Americans killed in Afghanistan, and he stressed the need for his country to become more self-reliant.
在一场参众两院联席会议上，加尼的讲话相当一部分是重复此前几天的演讲内容。他再次提到有超过2300名美国人客死阿富汗，强调自己的国家需要更多地依靠自身力量。
Afghanistan, Mr. Ghani declared, must tackle corruption if the country hoped to shed its dependence on foreign aid. He spoke of the threat posed by Islamist militants, and, seemingly well aware of his audience’s current fears, he raised the prospect of the Islamic State making inroads into Afghanistan.
加尼表示，要想摆脱对外国援助的依赖，阿富汗需要应对腐败问题。他谈了极端伊斯兰武装分子的威胁，提出了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)进犯阿富汗的可能性，看起来他很清楚他的听众当前最害怕的是什么。
And, as he has done throughout his trip, Mr. Ghani highlighted his familiarity with the United States. The Sept. 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center was “horrific, and it was personal,” he said, noting that his wife also earned a degree from Columbia and that both of his children were born in New York.
此外加尼还彰显了他对美国的熟悉，这也是他此行一直在做的。2001年9月11日世贸中心遇袭事件是“骇人的，也是于我个人休戚相关的”，他说，他提到自己的妻子也在哥伦比亚大学读了一个学位，两个孩子都出生在纽约。