TOKYO — Last week, 57 nations became founding members of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the China-led regional development bank. Japan and the United States opted not to join, expressing doubts over governance and transparency at the new organization.
东京——上周，57个国家成为了亚洲基础设施投资银行（Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行）的创始成员国。日本和美国对其治理和透明度表达了疑虑，并决定不加入这家由中国牵头成立的地区性开发银行。
Even if the Obama administration were in favor of the United States becoming a member, Congress wouldn’t allow it; lately, it has even blocked a funding increase for the International Monetary Fund that was backed by the G-20. But the National Diet of Japan faces a different situation. The governing Liberal Democratic Party is split over the A.I.I.B.; its members are still debating the pros and cons. Komeito, the L.D.P.’s junior coalition party, and the Democratic Party of Japan, the opposition, are largely in favor of membership.
即使奥巴马政府赞成美国成为亚投行成员国，国会也不会同意；最近，美国国会甚至阻止了国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)增加资金，尽管增资得到了20国集团(G20)的支持。但日本国会面临着不同的情况。执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)内部对于亚投行看法不一，其成员仍在辩论其利弊。自民党规模较小的执政伙伴公明党(Komeito)，以及反对党民主党(Democratic Party)，则在很大程度上支持加入亚投行。
The case for Japan joining the A.I.I.B. is simple and strong. By distributing financial assistance to states in the Asia-Pacific, the bank will inevitably help shape the region’s future economic architecture, as well as, implicitly, its security relations. Japan has a major strategic interest in participating.
日本加入亚投行的理由简单而有力。通过将财政援助分布在亚太国家，亚投行将不可避免地参与该地区未来经济架构的塑造，此外也会间接地塑造地区内的安全关系。参与亚投行符合日本的重大战略利益。
Japan has long been at the forefront of regional organizations, helping to establish the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, the Asean Regional Forum and the East Asia Summit. It is a leading donor of aid to Asia. Japan’s net official development assistance (ODA), combining bilateral aid and contributions to international organizations, exceeded $10.6 billion in 2012, with more than 56 percent going to Asian countries. By contrast, China gave out an estimated $5 billion in annual foreign aid, and only just over 30 percent of that in Asia.
日本长期以来一直走在区域组织的前沿，它帮助建立了亚太经济合作组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)这个论坛、东盟地区论坛(Asean Regional Forum)和东亚峰会(East Asia Summit)。它还是亚洲最大的捐助国。2012年，日本的官方开发援助(ODA)净值，加上双边援助，以及捐赠给国际组织的资金，总共超过106亿美元（约合650亿元人民币），其中有56%以上流向了亚洲国家。相比之下，中国每年提供的对外援助估计有50亿美元，只占亚洲对外援助总和的30%出头。
Japan began its ODA program in earnest in the 1960s, during a period of great economic growth prompted partly by the significant infrastructure investment it had received after World War II. By the 1990s, Japan had become the world’s largest ODA donor. Its activities have been wide-ranging — dealing with environmental issues, sanitation and disaster relief. Japan’s expertise in these areas would be valuable to the A.I.I.B., and to key strategic partners that need infrastructure investment to grow, like Indonesia, Vietnam and Myanmar. If Japan can cooperate with China to assist the development of these nations, it would be contributing to the stability of the Asia-Pacific region as a whole.
上世纪60年代，日本开始认真开展ODA计划，当时它正处在一段巨大的经济增长期中，二战后日本获得的大量基础设施投资，部分上促进了那轮增长。到了90年代，日本已经成为世界上最大的ODA捐赠国。其活动范围也很广泛——应对环境问题、卫生和救灾。日本在这些领域的专业知识对于亚投行，以及对需要增加基础设施投资的战略伙伴，如印度尼西亚、越南和缅甸，都是很有价值的。如果日本能与中国合作，协助这些国家发展，就会有助于维护亚太地区的整体稳定。
Indeed, the A.I.I.B. must be treated as a project that concerns the entire Asia-Pacific region, rather than just Asia. The bank’s decision-making mechanism has yet to be determined, but one proposal is to allocate up to 75 percent of voting shares to “regional members.” That group should not be limited to Asian states to the exclusion of Pacific Ocean nations, as seems to be Beijing’s design. A pan-regional approach is in Japan’s interest, and it can best defend this idea as a member of the A.I.I.B.
事实上，亚投行必须被视为一个关乎于整个亚太地区，而不仅仅是亚洲的项目。该银行的决策机制还有待确定，但一个建议是将高达75%的表决权分配给“区域成员”。这类成员不应该像北京似乎设想的那样，仅仅局限于亚洲国家，而把太平洋国家排除在外。泛区域的做法是符合日本利益的，如果它成为亚投行成员，它就能最好地捍卫这一主张。
Such a comprehensive vision has been Japan’s official strategy at least since the early 1980s, after Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira promoted Pan-Pacific cooperation. History shows that Japan has veered from this notion at its peril. At the end of the 19th century, Japan was the first Asian state to modernize, and it soon became one of the world’s great powers. But in terms of both identity and strategy, it was caught between Asia, representing the East, and the Pacific, then symbolizing the West.
在首相大平正芳(Masayoshi Ohira)推动泛太平洋合作之后，至少自上世纪80年代初开始，这样一种全面的眼光就成了日本的官方战略。历史显示，日本偏离这种观念会带来危险。在19世纪末，日本成为第一个实现现代化的亚洲国家，很快它变成了全球大国之一。但在身份和战略上，它都被夹在代表东方的亚洲和当时象征西方的太平洋之间。
Feeling excluded by Western nations, in the 1930s, Japan embarked on its own version of the Monroe Doctrine, leading to the second Sino-Japanese war and the Pacific war against the Allied Powers. By refusing to join the A.I.I.B., Japan risks once again drawing a line between continental Asia and the Pacific nations.
由于感觉自己受到西方国家的排斥，在20世纪30年代，日本开始了自己的门罗主义(Monroe Doctrine)路线，引发了第二次中日战争，以及对抗盟国的太平洋战争。日本如果拒绝加入亚投行，恐怕会再次在亚洲大陆与太平洋国家之间，划出一条界线。
The U.S. Congress’s decision last week to grant President Obama fast-track authority to conclude the trans-Pacific trade pact is timely. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe must now take advantage of his approaching trip to the United States to convince the Obama administration to finalize the agreement and then to join the A.I.I.B. Japan is understandably wary of China’s growing influence. But the best way to protect its interests is not to snub Beijing’s regional initiatives; it is to help shape them, with the help of the United States, in the hope of creating more cooperative relations with China.
上周，美国国会及时做出决定，授予奥巴马“快车道”(fast-track)权限，以缔结TPP协议。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)很快将前往美国，他必须把握机会，说服奥巴马政府敲定这个协议，然后让日本加入亚投行。日本对中国日益增长的影响力心存警惕，这是可以理解的。但是，要维护自己的利益，最好的办法就是不要冷落北京的区域性倡议。日本应该在美国的帮助下，参与对这些倡议的塑造，同时也要对建立更具合作性的中日关系抱着希望。