The husband and wife who shot and killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., this month used private online messages to express their commitment to jihad and to martyrdom in the years before the attack, but they did not make those communications on social media, the director of the F.B.I. said Wednesday.
美国联邦调查局(FBI)局长周三表示，本月在加州圣贝纳迪诺枪杀14人的夫妇二人，在实施袭击几年前，就在网络私人通讯中表示要献身圣战和殉教，但他们并没有在社交媒体上进行过此类表达。
The director, James B. Comey, speaking at a news conference in New York, said that investigators had found no evidence that the couple were part of larger cell or were being directed by terrorists overseas. He said the assailants — Tashfeen Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook — were “consuming poison on the Internet” and became radicalized over a period of time.
FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在纽约进行的一场发布会上表示，调查人员没有找到证据表明这对夫妇属于更大的团伙，或受到海外恐怖分子的指使。他说，这两名凶手——塔什芬·马利克(Tashfeen Malik)和她丈夫赛义德·里兹万·法鲁克(Syed Rizwan Farook)——在“网上吸收了有害信息”，在一段时间后变得激进起来。
The New York Times reported on Sunday that Ms. Malik had talked openly about jihad on social media before she applied for a visa to come to the United States. Mr. Comey on Wednesday said he wanted to “clarify” that while such remarks were made online, they were “direct private messages” and not easily accessed. The F.B.I. has been able to obtain them in recent days.
《纽约时报》曾在周日报道，马利克在申请签证来到美国之前，就在社交媒体上公开谈论过圣战。科米周三表示，他想“澄清”的是，这些言论虽然在网上发布，但它们是“一对一的私人通讯”，不能轻易看到。联邦调查局也是最近几天才拿到这些讯息的。
“We can see from our investigation that in late 2013, before there is a physical meeting of these two people resulting in their engagement and then journey to the United States, they are communicating online, showing signs in that communication of their joint commitment to jihad and to martyrdom,” Mr. Comey said. “Those communications are direct, private messages. So far, in this investigation, we have found no evidence of posting on social media.”
“从调查中我们获知，2013年底二人见面并由此订婚继而让她来到美国之前，他们在网上进行了交流，谈话中二人曾流露出参加圣战和殉教的共同意愿，”科米说。“这些交流是一对一的私人通讯。截至目前，我们在调查中还没有找到他们在社交媒体上发布此类讯息的证据。”
The existence of the online communications have prompted criticism from members of Congress and some Republican presidential candidates, who said that immigration authorities should routinely search social media posts of visa applicants. Intelligence officials say that would be incredibly difficult, if not technically impossible to do for the tens of millions of people who enter the country each year to work, visit and live.
这些网上交流的存在，在国会议员和一些共和党总统候选人当中引发批评。他们表示移民部门应该对签证申请者在社交媒体上发布的内容进行例行搜索。情报机构表示，每年有数千万人来美国工作、访问和生活，就算在技术上可以实现这些例行搜索，操作起来也会极其困难。
Mr. Comey’s remarks were an attempt to rebut that criticism. Because Ms. Malik’s online comments were made privately, they likely would not have been discoverable even if immigration officials had searched for them.
科米的言论意在驳斥此类批评。因为马利克的网上评论是私人讯息，即便移民官员进行搜索，也很可能没法找到。
Expanding on the private direct messages the suspects shared, Mr. Comey said he did not know what devices they were using. “They were using an Internet service provider communication; I don’t want to name their particular provider, but one of the very common Internet service providers that provides email service and direct message.”
在进一步讲到嫌疑人在网上进行的一对一交流时，科米表示，他并不知道他们在使用什么工具。“他们用的是一家互联网服务提供商的通讯服务；我不想点具体的名字，不过它是提供邮箱服务和一对一通讯服务的很常见的互联网提供商之一。”
Mr. Comey spoke broadly about the role social media played in the recruitment of extremists.
科米还宏观地谈到了社交媒体在招募极端分子方面扮演的角色。
“Twitter works as a way to sell books, as a way to promote movies, and it works as a way to crowdsource terrorism — to sell murder,” he said.
“Twitter可以被用来卖书，用来宣传影片，也可以用来众包恐怖主义，也就是销售杀戮，”他说。
Mr. Comey, speaking at Police Headquarters in Manhattan, said the investigation of the couple showed “no indication of direct contact with a foreign terrorist organization.”
科米的此番讲话是在曼哈顿的纽约市警察局总部发表的。他还称，对这夫妇二人的调查显示，“没有迹象表明二人与国外恐怖组织有直接联系。”