LOS ANGELES — California is challenging the historic status of American citizenship with measures to permit noncitizens to sit on juries and monitor polls for elections in which they cannot vote and to open the practice of law even to those here illegally. It is the leading edge of a national trend that includes granting drivers’ licenses and in-state tuition to illegal immigrants in some states and that suggests legal residency could evolve into an appealing option should immigration legislation fail to produce a path to citizenship.
洛杉矶——加利福尼亚州正在挑战美国公民身份的历史地位，因为该州出台了措施，允许非公民担任陪审员，监督他们无法参与的选举投票，甚至还允许面向该州的非法移民开放律师行业。这是一个全国性趋势的最前沿。该趋势包括部分州向非法移民发放驾照和为他们支付州立学校学费。这一趋势表明，若移民立法未能带来一条通向公民身份的道路，合法居留权可能会演变成一个极具吸引力的选项。
With 3.5 million noncitizens who are legal permanent residents in California, some view the changes as an acknowledgment of who is living here and the need to require some public service of them. But the new laws raise profound questions about which rights and responsibilities rightly belong to citizens over residents.
加州有350万非公民的合法永久居民，在这里，一些人认为，这些改变是对生活在这里的人的承认，也是认识到需要他们承担部分公共服务义务。但新法律也引发了关于哪些权利和义务只能属于公民而非居民的深刻问题。
“What is more basic to our society than being able to judge your fellow citizens?” asked Jessica A. Levinson, a professor at Loyola Law School, referring to jury service. “We’re absolutely going to the bedrock of things here and stretching what we used to think of as limits.”
“对我们的社会而言，还有什么比能够审判同胞更基本呢？”罗耀拉法学院(Loyola Law School)教授杰茜卡 ·A·莱文森(Jessica A. Levinson)在提及陪审员责任时说，“我们绝对是在向着根基前进，拉伸过去被我们当做底线的东西。”
One new state law allows legal permanent residents to monitor polls during elections, help translate instructions and offer other assistance to voting citizens. And immigrants who were brought into the country illegally by their parents will be able to practice law here, something no other states allow.
一项新的州法律允许合法永久居民在选举中监督投票、帮助翻译说明书，和为投票的公民提供其他帮助。被父母通过非法途径带到美国来的移民，也将能从事律师行业。目前，其他所有州都不允许这么做。
In many ways, the new measures underscore the lock Democrats have over the State Capitol, where they hold an overwhelming majority in both houses. Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, signed the poll worker legislation this month and has indicated his approval of the other bills. Many of the changes, including granting drivers’ licenses to unauthorized immigrants, passed with overwhelming support and the backing of several Republicans.
新立法在许多方面都突显出了民主党人对州议会(State Capitol)的控制。在州议会的参众两院，民主党人占压倒多数。来自民主党的州长克里·布朗(Jerry Brown)于本月签署了投票工作人员立法，同时还表明自己支持其他法案。许多改变，包括向非法移民发放驾照，都以压倒性优势获得通过，而且还得到了几名共和党人的支持。
State legislatures across the country approved a host of new immigrant-friendly measures this year, a striking change from just three years ago, when many states appeared poised to follow Arizona’s lead to enact strict laws aimed at curbing illegal immigration. More than a dozen states now grant illegal immigrants in-state college tuition, and nine states and the District of Columbia also allow them to obtain drivers’ licenses.
今年，全国的州立法机构批准了一系列对移民有利的新立法，这同三年前形成了强烈对比。就在三年前，许多州似乎都在准备追随亚利桑那州的脚步，制定严格的法律，旨在控制非法移民。如今，至少12个州帮助非法移民支付州立大学学费，九个州以及哥伦比亚特区还允许非法移民获取驾照。
With an estimated 2.5 million illegal immigrants living in California — more than in any other state in the country — some say the state has no choice but to find additional ways to integrate immigrants.
据估计，加利福尼亚州生活着250万非法移民，这比美国其他任何州都多。有鉴于此，一些人说，除了寻找额外办法让移民融入进来，加州别无选择。
“It’s a recognition that how people are living and working in their community might trump their formal legal status,” said Hiroshi Motomura, an immigration law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles. “There is an argument that in parts of California a jury without a legal permanent resident is not really a jury of peers. Some view citizenship as the final consecration of complete integration, but this says, ‘Let’s take who we have and get them to participate in our civil institutions.’ ”
“这是承认，人们在各自社区的生活和工作比他们的正式法律地位更重要，”加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的移民法教授浩本村（Hiroshi Motomura，音译）说，“加州部分地方有人认为，成员中没有合法永久居民的陪审团不具有真正的代表性。一些人认为，公民身份是彻底融入的终极象征，但加州却说，‘让我们在可被允许范围之内，尽量让他们参与到这里的公民制度之中。’”
Early this month, the State Supreme Court suggested during a hearing that lawmakers could create a law to address the case of Sergio Garcia, who was brought to the United States illegally as a child. Mr. Garcia had met every other requirement to become a licensed lawyer. Within days, legislation was approved to allow immigrants who were brought here illegally as minors to obtain law licenses, with just three opposing votes.
本月早些时候，州最高法院(Supreme Court)在听证会上称，立法者可以创立一条用来处理塞尔焦·加西亚(Sergio Garcia)的案件的新法律。加西亚在儿童时期被人非法带入美国。他已经满足了获得律师执照的所有其他条件。几天之内，允许在未成年时期被非法带入美国的移民获得相关法律执照的法律就得到了通过，只有三人投反对票。
But the bill to allow noncitizens to sit on juries has proved more controversial. Several newspaper editorials have urged Mr. Brown to veto it.
然而，事实证明，人们在允许非公民参加陪审团的法案上存在更多争议。几篇报纸社论都敦促布朗否决该法案。
Rocky Chávez, a Republican assemblyman from northern San Diego County, said that allowing noncitizens to serve on a jury would make it harder to uphold American standards of law.
来自北圣迭戈县的共和党州议员洛基·查韦斯(Rocky Chávez)说，让非公民担任陪审员将会让人们更难以维持美国法律的公正性。
“What we call domestic violence is appropriate in other countries, so the question becomes, ‘How do we enforce our own social norms?’ ” Mr. Chávez said. He added that granting more privileges would weaken immigrants’ desires to become citizens. “Once we erase all these distinctions, what’s next? What is going to convince someone it is essential to get citizenship?”
“我们所谓的家庭暴力在其他国家并无不妥，所以问题就是，‘我们该怎样执行自己的社会准则？’”查韦斯说。他还表示，给移民授予更多特权将会削弱移民想成为公民的欲望。“如果我们消除所有差别，接下来会怎样？我们该如何使人相信，获得公民身份是有必要的？”
Departing from their role regarding other bills affecting immigrants, advocacy groups largely stayed out of the debate over the jury duty bill, which was sponsored by Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, a Bay Area Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
虽然倡议组织在与移民相关的其他法案中发挥了一些作用，但是它们却基本没有加入与陪审团义务法案相关的争论。湾区民主党州议员、司法委员会(Judiciary Committee)主席鲍勃·威科夫斯基(Bob Wieckowski)是该法案的发起人。
“Being a juror really has nothing to do with being a citizen,” Mr. Wieckowski said. “You don’t release your prejudices or histories just because you take an oath of citizenship, and you don’t lose the ability to listen to testimony impartially just because you haven’t taken that oath either.”
“担任陪审员真的与是不是公民没关系，”威科夫斯基说。“你不会因为进行了公民宣誓就会抛开自己的偏见和人生经历，也不会因为没有宣誓就不具备以公平之心听取证词的能力。”
Supporters say that expanding the pool of those eligible to serve on juries and work the polls would serve citizens as well as immigrants. Several counties in California are required to print ballots and voting instructions in languages other than English. In Los Angeles County, ballots are available in Spanish, Mandarin, Arabic, Armenian, Tagalog and Vietnamese.
支持者表示，扩大能够担任陪审员与投票工作人员的人群，对公民和移民都有好处。加利福尼亚州的几个县都要求用英语以外的其他语言来印制选票和投票说明。洛杉矶县的选票有西班牙语、汉语、阿拉伯语、亚美尼亚语、塔加拉族语和越南语等各个版本。
But advocates say that the printed instructions are often insufficient and that many people are turned away from the polls because they simply cannot communicate. Expanding the pool of potential poll workers to include legal permanent residents will allow more citizens to vote, they say.
然而，倡议人士表示，书面印刷的说明往往还不够，很多人都因为无法交流而不去参加投票。他们说，如果扩大投票工作人员的选拔范围，使合法永久居民能够参与其中，就将有更多公民来参与投票。
Critics say that the Legislature is going too far and that the legislation will probably face legal challenges.
批评人士则称，立法机关的做法走得太远了，这条法规很可能会遇到一些法律上的挑战。
“It seems they stay up late dreaming up ways they can reward illegal immigration and create either new benefits or new protections for illegal immigrants,” said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which backs stricter federal laws. “The overriding objective of the California Legislature is to further blur the distinction between citizen and immigrant, legal and not.”
“他们似乎在连夜设想一些有利于非法移民的做法，为非法移民创造一些新利益、提供一些新保护，”支持实行更严格的联邦法律的美国移民改革委员会(Federation for American Immigration Reform)发言人伊拉·梅尔曼(Ira Mehlman)说。“加州立法机构的最终目标就是进一步模糊公民与合法及非法移民之间的界线。”