It goes without saying that the rollout of Obamacare was an epic disaster. But what kind of disaster was it? Was it a failure of management, messing up the initial implementation of a fundamentally sound policy? Or was it a demonstration that the Affordable Care Act is inherently unworkable?
不用说，奥巴马医改的推出是一个巨大的灾难。但它是一种怎样的灾难呢？是因为管理的失败，搞砸了一项根本上颇为健全的政策的初步实施？还是说它已经证明《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)根本不具有可行性？
We know what each side of the partisan divide wants you to believe. The Obama administration is telling the public that everything will eventually be fixed, and urging Congressional Democrats to keep their nerve. Republicans, on the other hand, are declaring the program an irredeemable failure, which must be scrapped and replaced with ... well, they don’t really want to replace it with anything.
我们都知道存在分歧的两党分别希望你会持何种观点。奥巴马政府告诉公众，一切问题最后都会得到解决，他们还呼吁国会民主党人保持冷静。而共和党人则宣称，这个项目简直就是无可救药地失败，它必须被取消或者用其他东西来代替……哎，其实他们根本不愿意用任何东西来代替它。
At a time like this, you really want a controlled experiment. What would happen if we unveiled a program that looked like Obamacare, in a place that looked like America, but with competent project management that produced a working website?
在这样的时刻，你会很想进行一次受控实验。如果我们在一个看似美国的地方，推出一个看似奥巴马医改的项目，但是项目管理人员有能力，推出了一个运行正常的网站，情况又将如何？
Well, your wish is granted. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you California.
好吧，你的心愿得到了满足。女士们、先生们，我们来看看加利福尼亚。
Now, California isn’t the only place where Obamacare is looking pretty good. A number of states that are running their own online health exchanges instead of relying on HealthCare.gov are doing well. Kentucky’s Kynect is a huge success; so is Access Health CT in Connecticut. New York is doing O.K. And we shouldn’t forget that Massachusetts has had an Obamacare-like program since 2006, put into effect by a guy named Mitt Romney.
奥巴马医改并不只是在加利福尼亚运行良好。许多运行自己在线医保交易所，而不是依赖于政府医改网站HealthCare.gov的州都表现良好。肯塔基州的网站Kynect就取得了巨大成功；康涅狄格州的Access Health CT也是一样。纽约的情况也还不错。而且我们也不应该忘记，从2006年开始，马萨诸塞州就有了一个类似奥巴马医改的项目，该项目的实施者叫做米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)。
California is, however, an especially useful test case. First of all, it’s huge: if a system can work for 38 million people, it can work for America as a whole. Also, it’s hard to argue that California has had any special advantages other than that of having a government that actually wants to help the uninsured. When Massachusetts put Romneycare into effect, it already had a relatively low number of uninsured residents. California, however, came into health reform with 22 percent of its nonelderly population uninsured, compared with a national average of 18 percent.
不过，加利福尼亚是一个非常有用的案例。首先，它规模巨大：如果一个系统能为3800万人服务，它就能为所有美国人服务。此外，加利福尼亚除了有一个真心想帮助无保险人员的政府以外，很难说它有任何其他的特殊优势。当马萨诸塞州开始实施罗姆尼医改的时候，它的无保险居民人数已经相对较少了。然而，当加州开始进行医疗改革时，它22%的非老龄人口都未参保，而全国平均水平为18%。
Finally, the California authorities have been especially forthcoming with data tracking the progress of enrollment. And the numbers are increasingly encouraging.
最后，加州官方对追踪登记进程的数据尤为坦诚。而且相关数据越来越鼓舞人心。
For one thing, enrollment is surging. At this point, more than 10,000 applications are being completed per day, putting the state well on track to meet its overall targets for 2014 coverage. Just imagine, by the way, how different press coverage would be right now if Obama officials had produced a comparable success, and around 100,000 people a day were signing up nationwide.
首先，登记量在急速增加。此时此刻，每天都有1万多名申请者完成登记，按照这种势头，加州可以顺利完成2014年的总体覆盖目标。还有，请试想一下，如果奥巴马政府的官员取得了与之相当的成功，全国每天大约有10万人完成登记，媒体现在的报道将会多么不同。
Equally important is the information on who is enrolling. To work as planned, health reform has to produce a balanced risk pool — that is, it must sign up young, healthy Americans as well as their older, less healthy compatriots. And so far, so good: In October, 22.5 percent of California enrollees were between the ages of 18 and 34, slightly above that group’s share of the population.
同样重要的是登记者的信息。按照计划，医疗改革必须生成一个平衡的风险池——也就是说，除了较年长的、健康状况较差的美国人以外，年轻的健康美国人也需要登记。目前为止，一切顺利：10月，22.5%的加州登记者的年龄都在18岁到34岁之间，略微超过这群人在总人口中所占的比例。
What we have in California, then, is a proof of concept. Yes, Obamacare is workable — in fact, done right, it works just fine.
所以，加州的情况是一个概念验证。对，奥巴马医改具有可行性——实际上，如果能得到正确实施，它将会取得很好的效果。
The bad news, of course, is that most Americans aren’t lucky enough to live in states in which Obamacare has, in fact, been done right. They’re stuck either with HealthCare.gov or with one of the state exchanges, like Oregon’s, that have similar or worse problems. Will they ever get to experience successful health reform?
当然，坏消息是，大多数美国人都没能足够幸运地住在奥巴马医改得到正确实施的州。他们要么被联邦政府医改网站所困，要么就遇到了有着相似或更严重问题的州医保交易网站，比如俄勒冈的网站。他们究竟能否体验到成功的医疗改革？
The answer is, probably yes. There won’t be a moment when the clouds suddenly lift, but the exchanges are gradually getting better — a point inadvertently illustrated a few days ago by John Boehner, the speaker of the House. Mr. Boehner staged a publicity stunt in which tried to sign up in the DC Health Exchange, then triumphantly posted an entry on his blog declaring that he had been unsuccessful. At the bottom of his post, however, is a postscript admitting that the health exchange had called back “a few hours later,” and that he is now enrolled.
答案是，或许能。乌云绝不会瞬间消散，但交易网站却在逐渐改善——几天前，众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)无意中说明了这一点。博纳在一次作秀中尝试在哥伦比亚特区医保交易(DC Health Exchange)网上进行登记，然后神气地在博客上发讯息称，他没有登记成功。然而，他在文章底部发了一条附言，承认医保交易网站在“几小时后”打电话给他，目前他已成功登记。
And maybe the transaction would have proceeded faster if Mr. Boehner’s office hadn’t, according to the D.C. exchange, put its agent — who was calling to help finish the enrollment — on hold for 35 minutes, listening to “lots of patriotic hold music.”
而且哥伦比亚特区的交易网站称，博纳的办公室让打电话过来帮他完成登记的工作人员拿着电话、听着“大量爱国的等待音乐”等了35分钟；如果博纳的办公室没有这样做的话，这次交易就会更快完成。
There will also probably be growing use of workarounds — for example, encouraging people to go directly to insurers. This will temporarily defeat one of the purposes of the exchanges, which was to make price comparisons easy, but it will be good enough as a short-term patch. And one shouldn’t forget that the insurance industry has a big financial stake in the success of Obamacare, and will soon be pitching in with big efforts to sign people up.
变通方案的使用或许会越来越多，例如，鼓励人们直接去找承保人。这样做将暂时使交易网站失去其中一项功能——使价格比较变简单，但它将是一个很好的短期应对措施。人们也不应该忘记，奥巴马医改的成败于保险行业有巨大的经济利益，而且很快就会大力争取让人们登记。
Again, Obamacare’s rollout was a disaster. But in California we can see what health reform will look like, beyond the glitches. And it’s going to work.
再说一遍，奥巴马医改的推出是个灾难。但是，抛开那些小问题不论，我们在加州看到了医疗改革的前景。它会成功的。