VANCOUVER, British Columbia — In the tightly knit world of Vancouver’s wealthy Chinese immigrants, Paul Se Hui Oei stood out for his ties to some of Canada’s most powerful politicians and his mastery of cultivating guanxi, or personal relationships, that attracted legions of Chinese clients eager for his assistance in gaining a legal foothold in Canada.
不列颠哥伦比亚省温哥华——在温哥华富裕华人移民紧密相连的世界里，黄世惠(Paul Se Hui Oei)脱颖而出，他与加拿大一些最有影响力的政治人物关系密切，并且很会拉关系，因此吸引了大批渴望获得他的帮助、得到在加拿大合法居留资格的中国客户。
But behind closed doors, the authorities say, Mr. Oei, a prominent immigration consultant and philanthropist, ran an elaborate fraud scheme, pocketing nearly $6 million from investors, including many Chinese citizens led to believe their investment would help them secure permanent residency in Canada. Instead, the authorities say, he spent the money on luxury cars, beauty pageants and donations to the British Columbia Liberal Party.
但在幕后，加拿大当局称，身为杰出移民顾问和慈善家的黄世惠经营着一个精心谋划的诈骗计划，从包括很多中国公民在内的投资者那里骗取了近600万美元，他们相信这些投资可以帮他们拿到加拿大的永久居留权。官方称，黄世惠却把这些钱用来购买豪车、赞助选美比赛，捐给不列颠哥伦比亚自由党(British Columbia Liberal Party)。
“Everything he said were lies,” said Chen Wei, a Chinese immigrant who testified earlier this year in a case against Mr. Oei before a British Columbia Securities Commission panel. Mr. Chen’s family invested one million Canadian dollars ($782,000) in Mr. Oei’s project, according to hearing transcripts.
“他满嘴谎话，”今年早些时候在不列颠哥伦比亚证券委员会(British Columbia Securities Commission)听证小组就黄世惠一案作证的中国移民陈伟（Chen Wei，音）说道。听证会笔录显示，陈伟一家给黄世惠的项目投资了100万加元（约合500万人民币）。
The case is part of a pattern, experts say, of problems with Canada’s immigration programs, which, like the United States, set aside coveted residency permits for foreign investors. Some also say it underscores a troubling flaw in the Canadian justice system, which often allows white-collar criminals to walk away with little more than a slap on the wrist.
专家说，这个案例是加拿大移民项目问题模式的一部分，和美国一样，该国的移民项目也为外国投资者专门保留了部分令人垂涎的居留许可。一些人还说，它突显出加拿大司法系统一个令人不安的缺陷，这种缺陷往往使白领罪犯分子只会受到轻微处罚。
Mr. Oei has denied the accusations, but even if he is found to have committed fraud, he will face financial penalties only, not prison time.
黄世惠否认了指控，但尽管他被发现进行了诈骗，也只会受到经济处罚，而不会坐牢。
“Canada doesn’t take financial crime seriously,” said Christine Duhaime, a lawyer in Vancouver who specializes in laws dealing with terrorist financing and money laundering.
“加拿大不把金融犯罪当一回事，”律师克里斯汀·杜海姆(Christine Duhaime)说，她在温哥华专门从事打击恐怖主义融资和洗钱的法律。
Mr. Oei, who immigrated to Canada in the 1980s, declined interview requests through his lawyer.
黄世惠在1980年代移民到加拿大，他通过律师回绝了采访请求。
The case against Mr. Oei was brought by the commission, an independent provincial regulatory agency. The panel, appointed by the government, is expected to rule on the case this month. Apart from the financial penalties, Mr. Oei faces a possible ban from working in the securities industry.
他的案件是由证券委员会这个独立的省级管理机构提起。由政府任命的听证小组预计将在本月就此案作出裁决。除了经济处罚外，黄世惠可能还面临着不得在证券行业工作的禁令。
In Vancouver, Mr. Oei owned an immigration consulting and financial services company, and sought to use his connections in the Chinese community to raise money for a recycling start-up, Cascade.
在温哥华，黄世惠拥有一家移民咨询和金融服务公司，他曾试图通过自己在华人社群的关系为一家废品回收创业公司Cascade筹款。
But the commission says that from 2009 to 2013, Mr. Oei told investors that the project was approved by the British Columbia government (it was not) and that their investments would give Chinese citizens the right to immigrate to Canada, as well as shower them with profits. All they had to do was transfer funds into the trust account of a local lawyer and member of the Canadian Parliament, Joe Peschisolido.
然而，该委员会称，从2009年到2013年，黄世惠告诉投资者，他的项目得到了不列颠哥伦比亚省政府的批准（事实上并没有），投资可以让中国公民获得移民加拿大的权利，以及丰厚的利润。他们需要做的只是把钱转到一名当地律师、加拿大议会议员苏立道(Joe Peschisolido)的信托帐户里。
“This made investors feel safe, and that their money would be safe,” Mila Pivnenko, one of the commission lawyers, told the panel. “Of course, Oei was the only person who directed the lawyer where to disburse the funds from the trust account.”
“这让投资者感到安全，以为他们的钱很安全，”委员会的律师之一米拉·皮文科(Mila Pivnenko)告诉听证小组。“当然，只有黄世惠可以指挥那名律师把资金从信托账户中提出放到别处。”
The commission said Mr. Oei secretly transferred millions of dollars meant for the recycling company into his own bank accounts and issued shares in companies with no assets to investors in order to avoid detection.
委员会称，黄世惠偷偷地把应该投资给回收公司的数百万美元转进了自己的银行账户，为了避免被查到，还向投资者发行没有资产的公司的股份。
Mr. Oei raised about 13.3 million Canadian dollars ($10.5 million) from 64 investors, but the commission says he kept 6.9 million Canadian dollars for himself. When Cascade went bankrupt in 2013, Mr. Oei told many investors they could recoup their money if they topped up their investment, without alerting them that he had never sent more that half the funds he had already raised from investors to the project, the commission said.
黄世惠从64名投资者那里筹集了1330万加元（约合7000万人民币），但委员会称，他把其中690万加元（约合3500万人民币）留给了自己。当那家回收公司在2013年破产时，黄世惠告诉许多投资者，他们只要追加投资就可以收回投入，委员会称，黄世惠没有告诉他们，他从来都没有把超过一半从投资者那里筹集的资金用在那个项目上。
Jiang Yicheng, 53, a businessman from China’s coastal Zhejiang Province, said in a phone interview that during several visits to Vancouver, Mr. Oei chauffeured him and other Chinese investors around in a BMW, hosted lavish meals and showed off photos of himself posing with Canadian elected officials.
53岁的蒋毅成（音）是中国沿海省份浙江的一名商人。他在接受电话采访时说，几次去温哥华，黄世惠都开着一辆宝马带他和其他中国投资者四处游玩，置办豪华的宴席，并炫耀他和加拿大当选官员的合影。
Mr. Jiang was sold. He formed a consortium of Chinese investors who transferred more than $3 million for the recycling company, convinced by Mr. Oei’s promises that the project was backed by the government and would allow him to immigrate.
蒋毅成上当了。他相信了黄世惠称该项目得到了政府的支持，并且会为他带来移民资格的承诺，成立了一个由中国投资者组成的财团，向该回收公司转账逾300万美元。
Mr. Oei “took advantage of our trust to cheat us,” said Mr. Jiang, who has also filed a lawsuit in British Columbia against Mr. Oei. Mr. Jiang said he himself was successfully sued by the members of his consortium to recover their losses, which has left him penniless.
蒋毅成说，黄世惠“利用我们的信任骗我们”。他也在不列颠哥伦比亚省对黄世惠提起了诉讼。蒋毅成说，财团成员起诉他，要求赔偿他们的损失并且取得了胜诉，这导致他现在身无分文。
Mr. Jiang said an associate wired payments from Hong Kong to Vancouver while Mr. Jiang transferred the equivalent in renminbi to the associate’s bank account in mainland China.
蒋毅成说，一个助手把钱从香港汇到温哥华，他再把对应金额的人民币转给此人在内地的银行账户。
In an interview at a reception last year at a Vancouver Lamborghini dealership packed with Chinese-Canadian socialites, Mr. Oei bragged about his luxury cars and explained why many wealthy Chinese find Canada so attractive. “They want a safe place to put their money,” he said, reclining in the driver’s seat of his black Bentley Mulsanne.
去年，在温哥华一家挤满华裔加拿大社会名流的兰博基尼经销店的招待会上接受采访时，黄世惠炫耀自己的豪车，并解释了为什么很多中国富豪觉得加拿大很有吸引力。“他们希望有一个安全的地方存放他们的钱，”他靠在自己那辆黑色宾利慕尚(Bentley Mulsanne)的驾驶座上说。
Experts say the case against Mr. Oei fits a pattern of malfeasance that has tarnished Canada’s immigration programs. In 2014, the Canadian government canceled a federal immigrant investor program popular with Chinese millionaires after finding little economic benefit and frequent abuse. But provinces and territories have their own investor visa programs. Critics say many are rife with abuse and fraud.
专家称，起诉黄世惠的这起案件，符合败坏加拿大移民项目名声的不法行为的模式。2014年，加拿大政府在发现一个联邦移民投资项目几乎没带来经济效益并且经常遭滥用后，取消了这个深受中国富豪欢迎的项目。但加拿大各省和地区有自己的投资签证项目。批评人士称，这些项目很多都充斥着滥用和诈骗。
In April, three Chinese-Canadian immigration consultants were jailed for 18 months after they pleaded guilty to helping more than 1,600 immigrants, many from China, fraudulently maintain Canadian permanent residency and obtain citizenship.
4月，三名加拿大华裔移民顾问在承认帮助超过1600人——很多来自中国——通过欺骗的方式获得加拿大永久居留权和公民身份后，被监禁18个月。
Bill Boyd, a Saskatchewan legislator, resigned in August after he was found to have violated conflict of interest laws for telling Chinese investors at a seminar in Beijing that they could obtain Canadian permanent residency by investing in a company he led. Advertisements for the seminar featured the official Saskatchewan government logo and falsely claimed that Mr. Boyd was the provincial economy minister.
8月，萨斯喀彻温省议员比尔·博伊德(Bill Boyd)在被发现违反了利益冲突法后辞职。他在北京的一个研讨会上告诉中国投资者，他们可以通过投资他领导的一家公司获得加拿大的永久居留权。该研讨会的广告上出现了官方的萨斯喀彻温政府标志，还谎称博伊德是该省的经济部长。
Richard Kurland, a former national chairman of the Canadian Bar Association’s citizenship and immigration section, said lax oversight from the Canadian government and a preference for funding law-enforcement departments that investigate violent crime and terrorism rather than white-collar crime added to the difficulties in policing the immigration programs. “White-collar crime is tolerated because it’s not a priority,” he said.
前加拿大律师协会(Canadian Bar Association)负责公民资格和移民部门的全国负责人理查德·库兰德(Richard Kurland)说，加拿大政府监管不力，加上偏向于为调查暴力犯罪和恐怖主义而不是白领犯罪的执法部门提供资金，增加了监管移民项目的难度。“白领犯罪得到容忍是因为它不是头等大事，”他说。
In 2016, a United States State Department report labeled Canada a major money-laundering country. A review last year by the Financial Action Task Force, a global body that sets standards for combating money laundering, found that Canadian law-enforcement agencies “generally suffer from insufficient resources and expertise” to pursue complicated cases, and that criminal penalties “are not sufficiently dissuasive.”
2016年，美国国务院的一份报告把加拿大列为主要洗钱国家。去年，为打击洗钱制定标准的全球性机构金融行动特别工作组(Financial Action Task Force)经过调查发现，加拿大执法机构追查复杂案件所需的“资源和专业知识普遍不足”，并且“刑事处罚惩戒作用不足”。
In an email, Canada’s Ministry of Finance said the task force’s concerns will be reviewed by a parliamentary committee.
在一封电子邮件中，加拿大财政部称，议会的一个委员会将对调查金融行动特别工作组担心的问题进行调查。
Since its incorporation in 1995, the British Columbia commission says it has collected less than 5 percent of assessed sanctions in its cases. Of the total $374 million outstanding, only about $78,000 is probably collectible, the commission has said.
不列颠哥伦比亚证券委员会说，自1995年成立以来，委员会只收到了不到5%的估定罚款。该委员会称，在总计3740万美元的未支付罚款中，只有大约7.8万美元可能可以收到。
In the meantime, those who say they were defrauded by Mr. Oei have seen their lives turned upside down. In his testimony, Yang Baoxi, a Chinese immigrant in Vancouver, said his wife made two suicide attempts after they lost $1.3 million to Mr. Oei’s project.
与此同时，自称被黄世惠骗了的人眼看着自己的生活乱成一团。身居温哥华的中国移民杨宝玺（音）说，在投资黄世惠的项目损失130万美元后，他妻子两次试图自杀。
“In the last few years,” he said, “I have been living in nightmare.”
“过去几年，”他说，“我一直活在噩梦里。”