WASHINGTON — Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada, met with President Barack Obama on Thursday for the first official visit by a Canadian leader in 19 years, a diplomatic honor made possible in part by new pledges of cooperation on combating climate change.
华盛顿——加拿大总理贾斯汀·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)周四与奥巴马总统举行会晤，这是加拿大领导人19年来首次正式访问美国。这一外交荣誉之所以成为可能，还要部分归因于为对抗气候变化而加强合作的新承诺。
Obama and Trudeau announced Thursday morning new commitments to reduce planet-warming emissions of methane, a chemical contained in natural gas that is about 25 times as potent as carbon dioxide and that can leak from drilling wells and pipelines.
奥巴马和特鲁多周四早晨宣布了减少甲烷排放的新承诺。甲烷会造成地球变暖，天然气中含有这种化学物质，其变暖效应约为二氧化碳的25倍，它可能从油气井和管道中泄漏出来。
In a joint statement, the leaders promised that their two countries would “play a leadership role internationally in the low carbon global economy over the coming decades.” As part of the announcement, United States officials said they would immediately begin a new push to regulate methane emissions from existing oil and gas facilities, though finishing that process before the end of Obama's tenure is unlikely.
两位领导人在联合声明中承诺，两国将“在未来几十年中，在低碳全球经济领域发挥国际领导作用”。作为声明的一部分，美国官员表示，他们会立即开始推动新举措，监管现有石油和天然气设施排放的甲烷，不过在奥巴马任期结束之前完成这一工作的可能性不大。
“Methane is upwards of 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide in warming the planet,” said Gina McCarthy, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. “It has become clear that it is time for the EPA to take additional action to regulate existing sources in the oil and gas sector.”
“就导致地球变暖而言，甲烷的威力比二氧化碳的20倍都高，”国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)局长吉娜·麦卡锡(Gina McCarthy)说。“很明显，环保局是时候采取一些新的措施，监管石油和天然气行业现有的甲烷来源了。”
Obama and Trudeau also pledged new cooperation in preserving the Arctic and focusing on biodiversity, science-based decision-making, indigenous people and building a sustainable Arctic economy. The two nations also promised to accelerate the carrying out of agreements made in climate talks in Paris last year.
奥巴马和特鲁多还宣称，会采取新的合作保护北冰洋，同时关注生物多样性、原住民、基于科学作出决策，以及建立一个可持续的北冰洋经济。两个国家还承诺，要加速实施去年巴黎气候会议签署的协议。
While Canada and the United States have long been close allies, Obama's efforts to confront global warming had become a major point of contention with Trudeau's predecessor, Stephen Harper, who sought to aggressively expand Canada's oil industry.
尽管加拿大和美国是长期的盟友，但奥巴马抗击全球变暖的努力，却是与特鲁多之前的上一任总理史蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)产生分歧的一个重要原因。哈珀曾大力扩张加拿大的石油产业。
As Obama became more determined to leave behind a lasting environmental legacy, he delayed and eventually rejected construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would have transported nearly a million barrels a day of heavily polluting oil from Alberta to refineries on the Gulf Coast.
随着奥巴马在环境领域留下持久政治遗产的愿望愈发笃定，他拖延了Keystone XL管线的建设，并最终将其否决。这条管线本来可以每天把近100万桶污染影响极强的原油，从加拿大艾伯塔省输送到墨西哥湾沿岸。
Obama's rejection of the pipeline severely strained relations with Harper.
奥巴马否决这条管线的举动，严重影响了他与哈珀的关系。
But Trudeau's election last year signaled a shift in policy that was welcomed by the White House. Trudeau did not criticize Obama's rejection of the pipeline, and Trudeau has pledged to pursue an ambitious environmental agenda to coincide with Obama's policies.
但是特鲁多去年的当选，传递出了政策转变的信号，这受到了白宫的欢迎。特鲁多并没有批评奥巴马否决管线的做法，特鲁多宣称会奉行与奥巴马政策相符的雄心勃勃的环保议程。