OTTAWA — Canada’s health minister said Wednesday that a person in Alberta died this week of the bird flu virus, the first known fatality from the illness in North America.
渥太华——周三，加拿大卫生部长表示，艾伯塔省有一人上周死于禽流感病毒，这是北美发现的第一宗禽流感死亡病例。
The minister, Rona Ambrose, and several public health officials, insisted that the death was an isolated case and posed little or no risk to the general public. They said that the victim did not appear to have contracted the H5N1 virus from human contact during a trip to Beijing last month and was unlikely to have passed it along when returning to Alberta.
加拿大卫生部长罗娜·阿布罗斯(Rona Ambrose)和其他几名卫生官员坚称，前述死亡病例是单独的个案，几乎或完全不会给公众带来风险。他们说，死者似乎不是在上月前往北京期间通过人传人感染H5N1病毒的，在返回艾伯塔省的途中也不太可能曾将病毒传与他人。
“The risk of getting H5N1 is very low,” Ms. Ambrose told reporters in Ottawa.
阿布罗斯在渥太华说，“感染H5N1的风险非常低。”
Little is known about the victim, whose identity and hometown were not disclosed by officials, citing privacy laws. The person died in a hospital on Jan. 3, two days after returning from China. Laboratory tests confirmed H5N1 as the cause of death on Tuesday evening.
外界对死者的情况几乎一无所知，官员们以隐私法为由，没有公布死者的身份和家乡。死者于1月3日在一家医院去世，去世两天前刚从中国返回。周二晚间，实验室化验确定其死因为H5N1病毒。
Dr. James Talbot, the chief medical officer of health for Alberta, said that the patient did not have a cough or respiratory congestion associated with seasonal flu. Rather, the virus attacked the victim’s central nervous system, he told the Ottawa news conference by telephone.
艾伯塔首席医疗卫生官詹姆斯·塔尔博特(James Talbot)博士表示，该患者没有表现出季节性流感会有的咳嗽或呼吸不畅症状。他通过电话告诉渥太华的新闻发布会，病毒侵袭的是患者的中枢神经系统。
He and other public health officials said that they believed the victim had become infected through exposure to birds.
他和其他一些公共卫生官员表示，他们认为，死者是因接触鸟类而感染病毒的。
The virus can be transmitted to humans through dried bird droppings or bird blood.
该病毒可以通过鸟类的干粪便或血液感染人类。
As a precaution, Health Canada, the federal health department, was contacting other passengers who traveled to Vancouver, British Columbia, from Beijing on an Air Canada flight as well as travelers who were on a connecting flight to Edmonton, Alberta. They, along with the victim’s family and health care workers, are being offered Tamiflu, also as a precaution.
为防万一，联邦医疗机构加拿大卫生部(Health Canada)正在联系从北京搭乘加拿大航空公司(Air Canada)的航班去往不列颠省哥伦比亚温哥华的其他乘客，以及飞往艾伯塔埃德蒙顿的转接航班上的乘客。官方会向这些乘客、死者的家人和医护人员分发达菲，也是为了防止意外。
“We do not think that there was a risk to any individuals on the airplane,” Dr. Talbot said.
“我们认为，飞机上的所有人都没有危险，”塔尔博特博士说。