JERUSALEM — Israeli leaders have stressed two points in selling their Gaza Strip ground invasion internationally and at home: that they embraced all cease-fire proposals and that troops are targeting tunnels used by Palestinian militants to infiltrate their territory.
耶路撒冷——为了证明以色列地面部队入侵加沙地带的合理性，该国领导人在国际上和国内都强调了两点：他们接受了所有的停火建议，而且以色列军队的目标是打击地道，巴勒斯坦武装分子利用这些地道渗透到以色列境内。
Now, with the lopsided casualty count mounting on both sides — more than 550 Gazans, 25 Israeli soldiers and two Israeli civilians — world leaders are demanding an immediate halt to the hostilities. But the operation has uncovered more tunnels than expected, officials said, and there were two more deadly incursions Monday, making many Israelis say they were reluctant to leave a job half-finished.
现在，随着双方差异颇大的伤亡人数日益增加——逾550加沙人，25名以色列士兵，以及两名以色列平民——世界各国领导人都要求他们立即停止敌对行动。但以色列官员们说，这次军事行动发现的地道数量多于预期，而且本周一又出现了两起致命的入侵事件，所以很多以色列人表示，他们不愿意这次军事行动半途而废。
That has Israel struggling with a more distilled version of the dilemma it has faced in repeated rounds against Hamas, the Islamist movement that dominates Gaza. If it stops now, it faces the prospect of a newly embittered enemy retaining the capacity to attack. But if it stays the course, it is liable to kill many more civilians and face international condemnation.
这让以色列陷入了一个更加突兀的两难困境，它曾在与哈马斯的多轮较量中面对这类困境；哈马斯是在加沙占主导地位的伊斯兰运动。如果现在停止军事行动，它面对的这个敌人不仅仍然有攻击能力，而且在旧恨上更添了新仇。但是，如果它继续开展行动，就可能导致远远更多的平民丧生，引发国际社会谴责。
“Israel must not agree to any proposal for a cease-fire until the tunnels are eliminated,” Gilad Erdan, the right-wing minister of communications, said during a hospital visit to wounded soldiers.
“在地道被摧毁之前，以色列不能同意任何停火建议，”右翼派别的通信部长吉拉德·尔丹(Gilad Erdan)在医院探望受伤士兵时说。
But Tzipi Livni, the centrist justice minister, told reporters that demilitarizing Gaza could be tackled after an agreement, and that “to cease the fire, stop the fire, this is the main goal right now.”
属于中间派的司法部长齐皮·利夫尼(Tzipi Livni)对记者说，在达成一个协议之后，可以着手实现加沙的非军事化，而“休战、停火是目前的主要目标”。
As Secretary of State John Kerry and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon landed in Cairo on Monday night to search for a cease-fire, analysts set low expectations. The Hamas-Israel feud is in many ways trickier and outside the core Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Israelis feel they withdrew from Gaza only to allow it to become a launching pad for rockets, and Hamas refuses to acknowledge Israel’s right to exist.
周一晚上，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和联合国秘书长潘基文抵达开罗，希望能让双方实现停火，但分析师认为他们成功的可能性不大。哈马斯和以色列之间的宿怨，从很多方面来说都处于以巴核心冲突之外，而且更加棘手。以色列人觉得，他们从加沙地带撤出，结果无非是让它沦为一个火箭弹发射台，而哈马斯拒绝承认以色列存在的权利。
For each, eradicating the other is the goal — not a two-state solution.
对于双方来说，目标就是消灭对方——而不是寻求“两国方案”。
This is the third bloody battle between Israel and Hamas in six years, and both previous cease-fire agreements simply restored quiet without touching topics central to the broader conflict, like the borders of a future Palestinian state or the fate of Jerusalem and refugees.
这是六年以来以色列和哈马斯之间爆发的第三次流血冲突，以前达成的两次停火协议只是恢复了平静状态，并没有触及更广泛冲突的核心议题，比如一个未来的巴勒斯坦国边界如何划分，或者耶路撒冷和难民的命运如何。
“With Hamas there, there is no other option but ‘mowing the grass.’ There is no option for a political solution,” said Efraim Inbar, director of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar Ilan University, using an Israeli euphemism for periodic military operations to temporarily roll back Hamas’ arsenal.
“只要哈马斯在那里，就没有其他选择，只能‘割草’。根本没有政治解决方式，“以色列巴伊兰大学(Bar Ilan University)比金─沙达特战略研究中心(Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies)主任埃夫拉伊姆·因巴尔(Efraim Inbar)说。“割草”是以色列人的一个委婉说法，指采取周期性的军事行动，压制哈马斯武器库的扩充，使其回到较低水平。
“If anybody believes in peace negotiations, two-state solution, Gaza is clear proof that we are far away,” Mr. Inbar added. “The narrower the focus is, the more chances there are for reaching a cease-fire — if you bring in additional issues it makes it much more complicated.”
“如果有人相信和平谈判，相信‘两国方案’，那么加沙发生的事情就清楚地说明我们还差得很远，”因巴尔表示，“焦点越是集中，实现停火的机会也就更大——如果你把其他问题也带进来，事情就会变得复杂许多。”
Israelis have increasingly floated the idea of an international arrangement modeled on the successful effort to remove chemical weapons from Syria. In this case, it would involve having international observers help to identify and in eliminate tunnels and the rest of Gaza’s arsenal, but many experts say they find it hard to imagine Hamas would consider such a condition for a cease-fire.
以色列人越来越多地提出，要仿照从叙利亚去除化学武器的成功案例，设立多国框架。在这种情况下，它会涉及国际观察员，让他们协助查明和消除地道及加沙地带的武器库中的剩余部分，但许多专家说，他们很难想象哈马斯会考虑这样的停火条件。
Ismail Haniya, until recently the Hamas prime minister, said in a speech Monday, that fighting would continue until the movement’s demands were met, including the release of prisoners freed in a 2011 exchange for an abducted Israeli soldier and who were recently rearrested — something most experts find it hard to imagine Israel would consider.
不久前还是哈马斯总理的伊斯梅尔·哈尼亚(Ismail Haniyeh)本周一表示，哈马斯的要求得不到满足，战斗就不会停止；这些要求包括：释放一些最近被再次逮捕的囚犯，这些人曾在2011年时通过交换一名被绑架的以色列士兵获得自由。专家认为，以色列考虑这些停火条件的可能性很小。
“We’ll never go back to the period before the aggression. We’ll never go back to the slow death,” Mr. Haniya said in a televised address. “Gaza will be the graveyard for the invaders, as it always was in history.”
“我们永远不会回到这次入侵发生之前的时期。我们永远不会再回到缓慢死亡的状态，“哈尼亚在一个电视讲话中说，“加沙将是入侵者的墓地，历史上向来如此。”
Monday morning, the Abu Jameh family pulled 26 bodies, 19 of them belonging to children, from the rubble of their home near the southern Gaza town of Khan Younis, the largest toll from a single strike since the battle began July 8. Four people were killed at Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital, the main one serving the center of the crowded coastal enclave. An airstrike Monday night destroyed the top five floors of an apartment building called Al-Salam — the Peace — in central Gaza City, an area that had been seen as a safe haven, killing 11.
周一早上，人们从加沙南部城镇汗尤尼斯的阿布·贾姆(Abu Jameh)家废墟中清理出26具尸体，其中有19名儿童；这是自7月8日战斗开始以来，单次袭击致死人数最多的一次。有四人在阿克萨烈士医院(Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital)遇难；在这个人口密集的沿海聚居区，这是最主要的医院。在被视为避风港的加沙城中央地带，周一晚上的空袭还摧毁了一座名为萨拉姆(Al-Salam)的公寓楼的最上面五层，导致11人丧生。这栋楼的名字意为“和平”。
Eyewitnesses said Israeli forces also fatally shot Mahmoud Hatem al Shawmreh, 29, in one of several clashes Monday night with Palestinian protesters in the West Bank. Seven Israeli soldiers died in combat Monday, making the total over four days two-and-a-half times the number killed in the three-week Cast Lead. Four were killed inside Israeli territory, along with 10 Gaza gunmen who penetrated the border through tunnels, according to a military statement, at least the fifth such incursion reported by the military since Thursday.
目击者说，周一晚上在约旦河西岸，在与巴勒斯坦抗议者发生的几次冲突中，以色列军队还开枪打死了29岁的马哈茂德·哈特姆·肖姆勒(Mahmoud Hatem al Shawmreh)。七名以色列士兵在周一的战斗中死亡，使得这四天的死亡总数达到了为期三周的“铸铅行动”(Cast Lead)的两倍半。以色列军方称，其中4人死于以色列境内，其他死亡者包括10名经地道穿过边境的加沙枪手；自从上周四以来，以色列军方至少报告了五次这样的入侵。