Alice Munro, the renowned Canadian short-story writer whose visceral work explores the tangled relationships between men and women, small-town existence and the fallibility of memory, won the 2013 Nobel Prize in Literature on Thursday. Ms. Munro, 82, is the 13th woman to win the prize.
本周四，著名加拿大短篇小说作家爱丽丝·门罗(Alice Munro)荣获2013年诺贝尔文学奖，她的作品深切感人，主要探索男女之间的复杂纠葛、小镇生活与记忆的不可靠。门罗女士现年82岁，是第13位赢得该文学奖的女作家。
Announcing the award in Stockholm, the Swedish Academy said that Ms. Munro is a “master of the contemporary short story.”
瑞典学院在斯德哥尔摩公布了这一结果，称门罗女士为“当代短篇小说大师”。
Ms. Munro, who lives in Clinton, a town in Ontario, told a writer from The Toronto Globe and Mail earlier this year that she planned to retire after “Dear Life,” her 14th story collection.
门罗现居安大略省的克林顿镇，今年早些时候，她在接受《多伦多环球邮报》(The Toronto Globe and Mail)采访时说自己正计划在《亲爱的生活》(Dear Life)出版之后退休，那是她的第14本短篇小说集。
She said she fell into writing short stories, the form that would make her famous, somewhat by accident.
她说自己迷恋于创作短篇小说，正是这种形式令她多少有些意外地一举成名。
“For years and years I thought that stories were just practice, till I got time to write a novel,” she told The New Yorker in 2012. “Then I found that they were all I could do, and so I faced that. I suppose that my trying to get so much into stories has been a compensation.”
“多年来我想等有时间再写长篇，这些短篇只是练习，”2012年，她在接受《纽约客》(The New Yorker)采访时说。“后来我发现自己只能写这样的短篇小说，所以就接受了这个事实。我觉得自己努力把那么多的东西都放进短篇小说里的做法是一种补偿。”
The Nobel, one of the most prestigious and lucrative prizes in the world, is given to a writer for a lifetime’s body of work, rather than a single novel, short story or collection. The winner receives 8 million Swedish kronor, or about $1.2 million.
诺贝尔奖是世界上最有声望、奖金金额最丰厚的文学奖项之一，它考量作家毕生的全部作品，而不是单独授予某部小说、短篇小说或作品集。获奖者将获得奖金800万瑞典克朗，合120万美元。
Previous winners in recent years include Mo Yan, a Chinese writer, in 2012; the Swedish poet Tomas Tranströmer, in 2011; Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian writer, in 2010; and in 2009, Herta Müller, a Romanian-born German novelist and essayist.
近年来的诺贝尔文学奖得主包括2012年的中国作家莫言、2011年的瑞典诗人托马斯·特兰斯特勒默(Tomas Tranströmer)、2010年的秘鲁作家马里奥·巴里加斯·略萨(Mario Vargas Llosa)、2009年的罗马尼亚裔德国小说家和散文家赫塔·米勒(Herta Müller)。
The 18 members of the Swedish Academy choose the winner in secrecy and reveal the nominees 50 years after each award is announced.
获奖人由瑞典文学院的18名院士秘密评出，获提名者的名单将于奖项公布50年后解密。
Each year, a handful of the same names are floated as contenders, including the Americans Joyce Carol Oates and Philip Roth. This year, Ladbrokes, the British bookmaking firm, gave the odds to Haruki Murakami, the Japanese author of “1Q84,” at 5-2, followed by Ms. Munro, at 4-1.
每年都会有几个相同的名字出现在热门竞争者的行列，包括美国作家乔伊斯·卡罗尔·奥茨(Joyce Carol Oates)和菲利普·罗斯。今年英国赌博公司立博(Ladbrokes)开出赔率，《1Q84》作者、日本作家村上春树的赔率以5-2居首，门罗女士以4-1次之。
Mr. Roth and Ms. Munro were the subject of even more intense speculation than usual this year because they had made similar recent pronouncements that they were finished with writing. The Nobel Foundation does not allow for the prize to be awarded posthumously, unless the writer dies after the announcement of the prize.
罗斯与门罗今年成为热门人选，主要是因为他们最近相继做出类似声明，声称停止写作生涯。诺贝尔委员会规定奖项不得在死后追认，除非作家是在奖项宣布后才故去。
The announcement continues a losing streak for American writers, who have been passed over for 20 years. The last American to win the prize was Toni Morrison, in 1993.
今年的结果意味着美国作家再次失意，美国作家已经有20年不曾获得诺贝尔文学奖了，上一次的获奖者是1993年的托尼·莫里森(Toni Morrison)。
Speaking to a reporter after the announcement of the prize, Peter Englund, the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, said that Ms. Munro is capable of a “fantastic portrayal of human beings.” Whether Ms. Munro is really finished writing, he said, is up to her.
瑞典文学院常务秘书长彼得·英格伦(Peter Englund)在宣布该奖之后接受采访，说门罗女士能够“描绘精彩的人类肖像”。他还说，门罗女士是否停止写作完全由她自己决定。
“She has done a marvelous job,” Mr. Englund said. “What she has done is quite enough to win the Nobel Prize. If she wants to stop writing, that’s her decision.”
“她创作了非凡的作品，”英格伦说，“迄今她所创作的作品已经足以为她赢得诺贝尔奖，如果她希望停止写作，那完全是她自己的决定。”
Though winners are traditionally notified by phone in the hour before the announcement, the Swedish Academy was unable to locate Ms. Munro, according to the Twitter account for the Nobel Prize. It left a phone message instead.
尽管获奖者通常会在奖项宣布之前一个小时得到电话通知，但诺贝尔奖的Twitter账号声称，瑞典学院没能找到门罗女士，只得给她发了手机短信。