SEOUL, South Korea — The chief pastor from a Korean church in suburban Toronto who failed to return home from a humanitarian mission to North Korea is reportedly being held by the government there.
韩国首尔——多伦多郊区一个韩国教会的主任牧师前往朝鲜执行人道主义救援任务后未能返回多伦多，有报道称他已被朝鲜政府扣留。
The pastor, the Rev. Lim Hyeon-soo, 60, who has visited North Korea many times, lost contact with his church on Jan. 31 after entering the North in late January, Lisa Pak, a spokeswoman for the Light Korean Presbyterian Church said on its website. His family has asked the Canadian government to help locate him, Ms. Pak said.
这名牧师名叫林铉洙(Hyeon Soo Lim)，现年60岁，任职于韩光长老教会(Light Korean Presbyterian Church)。该教会女发言人丽萨·朴(Lisa Pak)在教会网站上表示，此前曾多次到访朝鲜的林铉洙，在1月31日进入朝鲜境内后与教会失去了联系。丽萨·朴说，林铉洙的家人已经提请加拿大政府帮助找到他。
Caitlin Workman, a spokeswoman for the Canadian Foreign Affairs and Trade Department, said on Thursday that the department was “aware of a Canadian citizen detained in North Korea.” She added that consular officials had been in contact with the person’s family and that they were providing assistance, though Canada’s effort was restricted in nature.
加拿大外交和国际贸易部(Canadian Foreign Affairs and Trade Department)女发言人凯特琳·沃克曼(Caitlin Workman)周四表示，外交部“注意到一名加拿大公民被朝鲜扣留”。她补充说，领事官员已经和当事人家属取得联系并提供帮助，不过加拿大方面所能给予的帮助实际上是有限的。
“As there is no resident Canadian government office in the country, the ability of Canadian officials to provide consular assistance is extremely limited,” Ms. Workman said, declining to offer more details because of privacy reasons.
沃克曼说，“由于加拿大政府在朝鲜没有常驻机构，加拿大官员提供领事协助的能力极为有限。”为了保护当事人隐私，她拒绝透露更多细节。
North Korea has detained several foreigners in recent years, accusing a number of them of proselytism.
近年来，朝鲜扣押了若干名外国人，他们中的许多人都被控在该国传教。
Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary, was detained in North Korea in late 2012. He was later sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges of trying to establish a secret proselytism network in the isolated country as part of a plot to undermine its political system.
2012年末，韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)在朝鲜遭到扣留。不久后，他被判15年苦役，罪名是试图在这个与世隔绝的国家建立劝诱他人改变信仰的秘密网络，阴谋颠覆它的政治体制。
Mr. Bae and another American, Matthew Todd Miller, were freed in November, after the United States government sent its director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea to seek their release.
在美国政府派出国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)前往朝鲜斡旋后，肯尼斯·裴和另一名美国人于去年11月获释。
Ms. Pak, the Canadian church’s spokeswoman, said that Mr. Lim, who was born in South Korea, had made about 100 trips to North Korea since the church began a humanitarian mission there in 1996. At that time, North Korea was in the grip of a famine that killed as many as two million people, according to some estimates.
韩光长老教会女发言人丽萨·朴称，林铉洙出生于韩国，自从该教会在朝鲜启动人道主义救援工作以来，他已经去过朝鲜大约100次了。救援工作于1996年启动之初，朝鲜正为饥荒所困，据估计，多达200万人在那场饥荒中丧生。
During his visits to North Korea, Ms. Pak said, Mr. Lim carefully followed its prohibition against proselytism. “He would not do anything that would jeopardize the mission there,” she said.
丽萨·朴称，林铉洙在访问朝鲜期间一直谨慎地遵守该国禁止传教的规定。“他在那里不会从事任何危及救援工作的活动，”她说。