JERUSALEM — Another Gaza cease-fire collapsed on Tuesday when Palestinian militants fired barrages of rockets deep into Israel, drawing retaliatory airstrikes from Israel and prompting the Israeli government to withdraw its delegation from Egyptian-brokered talks in Cairo for an agreement to end the latest conflict.
耶路撒冷——周二，加沙地带的又一轮停火破裂。巴勒斯坦武装分子向以色列内陆发射了大量火箭弹，以色列随即展开报复性空袭，并撤回了在开罗的谈判代表。这次由埃及促成的谈判旨在达成一份协议，从而结束当前的冲突。
Militants had fired at lesat 50 rockets by midnight, targeting Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and many parts of southern Israel. Most fell in open ground, causing no damage or injuries, and several were intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system, according to the Israeli military. The military said it had carried out more than 25 airstrikes in response, Many targeted open spaces, but the Health Ministry in Gaza said that three people were killed when a house was bombed.
截至午夜，武装分子至少向特拉维夫、耶路撒冷和以色列南部的多个地区发射了50枚火箭弹。以色列军方称，多数火箭弹落入了空旷地带，没有造成破坏或人员伤亡，另有几枚火箭弹被该国的“铁穹”(Iron Dome)导弹防御系统拦截。以色列军方还表示，已发动逾25次空袭予以回击。多次空袭针对的是开阔区域，但加沙卫生部称，有三人在一所房屋的爆炸中丧生。
Israel has repeatedly said it will not negotiate under fire. As a five-day cease-fire expired at 11:59 p.m. on Monday, Israeli and Palestinian officials had announced a 24-hour extension to allow the negotiations in Cairo to continue.
以色列方面已经多次重申，不会在交战期间进行谈判。随着五天停火协议于周一午夜失效，以色列和巴勒斯坦官员曾宣布延长停火24小时，以便开罗和谈能够继续。
“Today’s rocket attack on Beersheba is a grave and direct violation of the cease-fire to which Hamas committed itself,” said Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli government. “This is the 11th cease-fire that Hamas has either rejected or violated,” he said.
“今天贝尔谢巴遭受的火箭弹袭击，是哈马斯对自己承诺遵守的停火协议直接而严重的背判，”以色列政府发言人马克·雷格夫(Mark Regev)表示。“这已经是哈马斯第11次违背或拒绝停火了。”
Within minutes of the first rockets landing, Israel instructed its negotiators to leave Cairo. The Palestinian delegation to the talks planned to leave on Wednesday. The Palestinian negotiators said they had given Egypt their final offer and were waiting for Israel to accept or reject it by 11:59 p.m. But Israel appeared unlikely to accept the draft, which it had rejected in the past, and the talks appeared on the verge of collapse.
第一批火箭弹落下的几分钟内，以色列通知其谈判代表离开开罗。巴勒斯坦的代表团则计划周三动身。巴方谈判代表称，他们向埃及递交了最终的条件，等待着以色列在午夜之前的答复。但以色列过去就曾拒绝同样的方案，看起来不太可能接受。谈判似乎濒临破裂。
Hamas, the militant group that dominates Gaza, denied responsibility for the latest rocket fire and blamed Israel for the escalation.
控制加沙地带的激进组织哈马斯(Hamas)否认发动了最新的火箭弹袭击，并指责以色列应为冲突的升级负责。
“Hamas does not have any information about the launching of any rockets from Gaza,” said Sami Abu Zuhri, a spokesman for the group in Gaza. “The Israeli occupation is aiming through this escalation in the region to abort the talks in Cairo,” he added.
“哈马斯完全没有听说从加沙发射的火箭弹，”哈马斯发言人萨米·阿布·祖赫里(Sami Abu Zuhri)说。“以色列占领者旨在通过这次冲突升级令开罗的谈判失败，”他接着说。
Smaller groups in Gaza may have been behind the rocket fire, with or without Hamas’s blessing.
这次火箭弹袭击或许由加沙规模更小的组织发起，也不能确定是否得到了哈马斯的同意。
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have engaged in indirect talks in Egypt for about two weeks in an effort to find more durable solutions to end the monthlong hostilities, in which more than 1,900 Palestinians were killed as well as 64 Israeli soldiers and three civilians, one of them a guest worker.
在过去两周中，以色列和巴勒斯坦的代表在埃及开展间接谈判，试图找到更为持久的解决办法，结束长达一个月的敌对状态。在此期间，逾1900名巴勒斯坦人死亡，64名以色列士兵和三名平民丧生，其中一人为外来员工。
The resumption of fighting came as the talks in Cairo reached a critical phase. A Palestinian official with knowledge of the negotiations said that there was no possibility of reaching a comprehensive agreement, but that there had been talk of a partial agreement for gradual measures and a monthlong cease-fire, to be followed by further talks on more difficult issues for both sides.
战斗恢复时正值开罗的谈判达到关键阶段之际。了解谈判进程的一名巴勒斯坦官员表示，双方不可能达成全面协议，但他们探讨了一份部分协议——采取循序渐进的举措，先达成为期一个月的停火，之后再进一步讨论对于双方来说比较困难的议题。
The initial accord was expected to allow for an easing of movement of goods through the crossings into Gaza to aid in reconstruction. Thousands of homes were destroyed in the latest fighting.
最初的协议将放松管制，允许物资通过边境口岸进入加沙地带，以帮助重建。在最近这轮的冲突中，加沙有成千上万的房屋被毁。
Earlier Tuesday, before the resumption of rocket fire and airstrikes, Hamas officials in Gaza had said the talks were at a stalemate.
周二早些时候，也就是在战火重燃之前，加沙的哈马斯曾官员表示，谈判陷入了僵局。
“If Netanyahu does not understand the message and the demands of Gaza through the political language of negotiations in Cairo, we know very well the way that will oblige him to understand it,” Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman, said in a statement, referring to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel.
哈马斯发言人法齐·巴尔胡姆(Fawzi Barhoum)在声明中提到了以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，称“如果内塔尼亚胡无法通过开罗谈判的政治语言理解加沙发出的信号和诉求，我们很清楚迫使他理解的途径是什么。”