MONTREAL — In Quebec, Canada’s second most populous province, the governing Parti Québécois plans to prohibit government employees from wearing “overt and conspicuous” religious symbols while on the job. Everyone from judges to teachers would have to doff their hijabs, kippas, niqabs, turbans and outsize crucifixes. Day care centers would be forbidden to serve kosher or halal foods. Government workers would be allowed to cover their faces only for weather-related — not religious — reasons.
蒙特利尔——在加拿大人口第二多的省份魁北克，执政的魁人党(Parti Québécois)打算禁止政府雇员在工作时穿戴带有“公开和明显”宗教符号的服饰。从法官到教师，所有政府雇员都不能穿戴各种穆斯林头巾、犹太小圆帽、伊斯兰面纱，以及尺寸较大的十字架。托儿所将禁止供应犹太和清真食品。政府工作人员只能因为天气原因——而非宗教原因——遮盖面部。
Bernard Drainville, the provincial minister responsible for the ban, part of a so-called Charter of Quebec Values, said it was necessary to “recognize and affirm some of the fundamental values that define us as Quebecers.” But far from unifying the province, the issue has underscored the divisions between the chaotic, multicultural island city of Montreal and the mostly white hinterland beyond its shores.
这项禁令是所谓的《魁北克价值宪章》(Charter of Quebec Values)的一部分，该省负责这项禁令的厅长伯纳德·德兰维尔(Bernard Drainville)说，有必要“承认和肯定一些界定我们是魁北克人的基本价值观”。但是，这个问题不仅没有凝聚该省，反而暴露了混乱的、拥有多元文化的岛城蒙特利尔和以白人为主的魁北克腹地之间的分歧。
This may be the unspoken goal of the Parti Québécois, which came in first in provincial elections last year but had to form a minority government. The Parti Québécois’s aim is to remove Quebec from Canada. By targeting Quebec’s religious minorities — in particular, veiled Muslim women, mostly in and around Montreal — the party is rallying its overwhelmingly white Francophone base. The bill has already stirred anti-immigrant resentment: several women’s shelters have reported an uptick in harassment of Muslim women.
这可能正是魁人党没有明说的目标；该党在去年的省选中位列第一，但不得不组建一个少数党政府。魁人党的宗旨是让魁北克脱离加拿大。通过把矛头指向魁北克的宗教少数群体——特别是戴着面纱的穆斯林妇女，她们主要居住在蒙特利尔及邻近地区——​该党振奋了自己的支持根基：以白人法语选民为主的选民。该法案已经激起了反移民怨恨情绪：几个妇女庇护所报告称，骚扰穆斯林妇女的现象有所增加。
The inspiration for the “charter” comes from France, which in 2004 outlawed the wearing of religious symbols in its school system. It is an odd precedent. For one thing, Muslims make up a minuscule proportion of Quebec’s population: about 1.5 percent, compared with roughly 7 percent in France.
法国是这份《宪章》的灵感来源。2004年，法国立法禁止在教育系统佩戴宗教标志。以法国为先例有些奇怪。首先，穆斯林在魁北克人口中所占的比例微不足道：约1.5%，而在法国大约占7%。
And if French classrooms are now hijab-free, it’s because students from observant families have transferred to private religious schools, further cutting them off from the mainstream — undercutting the policy’s aim of assimilation.
而且，如果法国的教室里现在看不到穆斯林头巾，那是因为善于观察的家庭已经把孩子转移到私立宗教学校，从而让他们进一步脱离主流——削弱了这项政策的“同化”目的。
The bleak suburbs around France’s cities testify to the dangers of social and economic isolation. Metropolitan Montreal doesn’t have the dangerous banlieues that surround Paris, by any means. But by outlawing religious attire, Quebec’s legislature would present further hurdles to the province’s immigrants, who already suffer from the highest unemployment rates in the country.
法国城市周围荒凉的郊区，证明了遭到社会和经济孤立的危险。但是，大蒙特利尔地区根本没有环绕巴黎的那种危险郊区。可通过立法取缔宗教服饰，魁北克的立法机构将给该省的移民设置更多障碍，这些移民本来就是加拿大失业率最高的人群。
As with France’s “headscarf ban,” there are absurd elements in the proposed charter for Quebec. The bronze-and-wood crucifix bolted to the wall of Quebec’s National Assembly, from which Jesus has gazed down on lawmakers for nearly 80 years, would remain. Current government employees who wear religious clothing would have a grace period of up to five years — presumably to change their clothes or their beliefs.
跟法国的“头巾禁令”一样，魁北克这个《宪章》提案含有荒谬成分。在魁北克国民议会厅，铜木质地的十字架被螺栓固定在墙上，耶稣已经在那里俯视议员近80年了，这个十字架将留在原位。目前穿戴宗教服饰的政府雇员会​​有一个长达五年的宽限期——想必是用来改变自己的穿着打扮或者信仰的。
In Quebec, home to North America‘s largest Francophone population, the place of religion remains a stubborn conundrum. Quebecers are proud, militantly so, of their secularism, having rejected the Catholic Church’s control in areas like health and education in the so-called Quiet Revolution a half-century ago.
魁北克省居住着北美最庞大的法语人口，在这里，宗教的地位仍是一个让人头疼的难题。魁北克人对自己的世俗主义有一种激进的自豪，在半个世纪前掀起的“寂静革命”(Quiet Revolution)中，他们终止了天主教教会对医疗和教育等领域的控制。
We are also rightfully protective of the French language. In 1977, the party legislated the language’s primacy in business and government. It also fought (and lost) two referendums, in 1980 and 1995, on independence from Canada.
他们也理所当然地要保护法语。1977年，魁人党立法确立了法语在商业和政府中的主要地位。在1980年和1995年，该党两次试图通过公投使魁北克省从加拿大独立（均未成功）。
But while language laws (and Quebec’s French identity) endure, the separatist fever has broken. Year after year, polls show support for independence stuck in the mid-30s. For the Parti Québécois, which rose to power largely because of the previous government’s problems with corruption, it must be torture to be brought in by voters who are largely indifferent to its end game.
不过，语言法律（和魁北克的法国身份认同）虽然保留了下来，但分裂主义的狂热已经降温。年复一年的民调显示，支持独立的选民比例徘徊在35%上下。魁人党之所以能掌权，主要是因为前政府被腐败问题困扰，选民大多对魁人党的终极目标漠不关心；在这样的情况下上台，对该党来说肯定是一种折磨。
Part of the indifference is that English is no longer seen as a tool of the conquering British, but simply the language of commerce. (Today, English Quebecers are overwhelmingly bilingual.)
选民漠不关心的部分原因在于，如今英语已不再被视为前来征服的英国人的一种工具，而仅仅是一种商业语言。（如今，说英语的魁北克人绝大多数也能说法语。）
A vast majority of immigrants to Quebec settle in Montreal, where support for the Parti Québécois is weak. Thanks to immigration laws favoring French-speaking countries, notably those in North Africa, Montreal’s Muslim community has doubled over the last 10 years. It has become a tempting target.
魁北克的绝大多数移民都住在蒙特利尔，这里对魁人党的支持很薄弱。由于移民法律照顾法语国家，其中北非国家尤其得益，蒙特利尔的穆斯林社区在过去10年增加了一倍。这个社区成了一个诱人的目标。
In 2007, the town council of Hérouxville, northeast of Montreal, drafted a “code of conduct” that asked new arrivals to refrain from participating in public stonings, stake-burnings and female circumcision, among other alleged immigrant pastimes.
2007年，位于蒙特利尔东北方向的埃鲁维尔市议会起草了一份“行为准则”，要求新移民不参与石刑、火刑和女性割礼等据称的移民消遣活动。
To his credit, Mr. Drainville, the minister, doesn’t engage in this claptrap. He defends the proposal as a sensible response to a surge in requests for special dispensations — so-called “reasonable accommodations” — for religious minorities. Yet Mr. Drainville has been unable to cite a single case in which such accommodations have hindered the workings of government. Recently, I asked an employee of Quebec’s transport ministry, which has over 5 million yearly interactions with the public, how many requests for reasonable accommodations it receives. The answer: less than five last year.
值得肯定的是，负责《宪章》的厅长德兰维尔没有参与这种哗众取宠的举动。他在为《宪章》提议辩护时表示，它明智地回应了宗教少数群体对特殊豁免——即所谓“合理安排”——与日俱增的请求。但是，德兰维尔举不出一个例子说明，此类安排阻碍了政府开展工作。最近，我问魁北克省交通部门的一位工作人员，他们收到了多少合理安排请求。答案是：去年不到五次。该部门每年会与公众进行500多万次接触。
A recent poll suggested that the values charter was most popular with white, Francophone males living outside Montreal — where immigrants are about as common as New York Rangers fans.
近期的民意测验表明，最支持价值宪章的是住在蒙特利尔以外讲法语的白人男子。在这些地方，移民几乎与纽约游骑兵队(New York Rangers)的球迷一样稀少。
In catering to this white, populist rural vote, the left-of-center Parti Québécois has seemingly ventured into Tea Party territory. Janette Bertrand, the 88-year-old leader of a pro-charter group, recently told a newspaper that she would be “scared” to be served by a veiled doctor, because Muslims let women “die faster.” She wasn’t joking.
为了迎合这些乡村地区的民粹主义白人选民，中间偏左的魁人党似乎冒险进入了茶党(Tea Party)的领地。一个支持宪章组织的88岁领导人珍妮特·伯特兰(Janette Bertrand)最近告诉一家报纸，她“不敢”让戴面纱的医生为她服务，因为穆斯林会让女性“死得更快”。她不是在开玩笑。
Anti-immigrant sentiment exists across Canada. Yet Quebec is the only province with a political party willing to exploit that sentiment for political gain. Will it work? Probably not, if only because winning any future referendum on Quebec’s separation from Canada would mean putting the question to each and every Quebecer — including the very people the Parti Québécois is scaring and scapegoating today.
加拿大各地都存在反移民情绪，但魁北克是唯一有某个政党愿意为了在政治上得分而利用这种情绪的省份。这种策略会成功吗？或许不会，原因之一是：要想赢得使魁北克从加拿大独立出去的未来公投，就需要争取每一个魁北克人的支持——包括魁人党正在恐吓和诬陷的人。