The first time could have been chalked up to charming idiosyncrasy. The second seemed like an effort to bring some levity to a complicated situation. But the third and fourth (and fifth and so on) times that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada wore themed socks on a public occasion, it seemed clear that something more calculated was going on.
第一次可以归为可爱的癖好。第二次像是企图给错综复杂的局面带来一点轻快。但加拿大总理贾斯汀·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)第三和第四（第五以及更多）次在政治场合穿主题袜子，似乎清楚表明这其中有更蓄意的成分。
You’ve heard of fashion diplomacy, or frock diplomacy? The practice whereby a female politician, or the wife of a world leader, uses clothing to convey unspoken messages about a platform or position, or as a form of outreach?
听说过时尚外交或礼服外交吧？一名女性政治人物或一位国家领导人的妻子，利用服装就一个话题或一种状况传达无言的信息，或作为一种对外推广的形式。
Well, this is clearly sock diplomacy. It’s a new tactic in the political playbook.
那么，这显然就是袜子外交了。这是政治攻略中的一项新战术。
And it reached an apogee of sorts on Sunday, when Mr. Trudeau marched in Toronto’s Gay Pride Parade wearing a rainbow-striped pair printed with the words “Eid Mubarak” in recognition of the Islamic festival that marks the end of Ramadan, and which coincided with this year’s parade. Yes, he honored two communities with one pair of socks. And he did so while also supporting local industry: They were made by a Toronto-based company, Halal Socks, and cost $14.99. All that doesn’t happen by accident.
上周日，这种战术似乎达到了某种顶峰，当时特鲁多穿着一对彩色条纹图案的袜子，出现在多伦多同性恋骄傲游行的队伍中，袜子上印着“Eid Mubarak”（开斋节快乐）的字样，旨在欢庆标志着斋月结束的伊斯兰节日，该节日碰巧与今年的游行是同一天。没错，他以一双袜子同时向两个群体致了敬。与此同时他还支持了本地产业：那双袜子是由总部在多伦多的公司清真袜业(Halal Socks)生产，价值14.99美元。所有这一切并非偶然。
It also followed closely on an appearance in regular rainbow socks for a Pride flag-raising on June 14 in Ottawa, and one on the syndicated TV show “Live with Kelly and Ryan” on June 5 in patriotic maple leaf socks — which he also wore in 2015 at a gathering of Canada’s provincial heads of government.
不久前，这位总理曾在6月14日于渥太华举行的骄傲升旗仪式上穿过一双普通的彩虹袜，在6月5日参加联播电视节目《凯利与瑞安真情对话》(Live with Kelly and Ryan)时穿过一双爱国主义的枫叶图案袜子——这双袜子他在2015年参加加拿大省级政府领导人的一次聚会时也穿过。
There was another smart socks show in May during a NATO meeting in Brussels, when Mr. Trudeau wore one blue sock and one pink, each with the NATO flag emblazoned on the side.
在今年5月于布鲁塞尔举行的北约(NATO)会议上，还有过一次精彩的袜子秀，当时特鲁多穿了一只蓝色袜子和一只粉色袜子，每只袜子的一侧都印着醒目的北约旗帜。
And that followed a much documented meeting with Enda Kenny, then the prime minister of Ireland, to which Mr. Trudeau wore “Star Wars” socks (it was International “Star Wars” Day). I could go on, but you get the idea.
在那之前，还有一次多有记载的与爱尔兰总理恩达·肯尼(Enda Kenny)的会面，当时特鲁多穿了一双《星球大战》主题的袜子（那天是国际星球大战日）。我还可以列举更多，不过我想你已经知道我在说什么。
In each case, Mr. Trudeau’s socks were not just fun, though they kind of were, especially compared with the usual politician’s navy or black; they also contained a message of solidarity. Rarely have a man’s ankles said so much.
在这每个场合中，特鲁多穿的袜子不只是为了有趣，尽管它们的确有些好玩，尤其是与普通政客的海军蓝和黑色袜子相比；它们也包含一种团结的信息。很少有一个男人的脚踝能传达出这么多信息。
It’s pretty clever. Men, after all, have significantly fewer options than women when it comes to implicit communication via clothing.
这是非常聪明的做法。毕竟，在通过服装表达含蓄信息方面，男人的选择比女人少多了。
Unlike Hillary Clinton with her white pantsuits, they can’t use color to support an idea. They can’t really wear suits by different tailors for every country they visit to support local industry, the way Michelle Obama often did and the Duchess of Cambridge does.
男性政客不能像希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)穿白色衣裤套装一样，用颜色来支持一种观念。他们不能真的在出访各个国家时穿由不同的设计师设计的套装，就像过去的米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)和现在的剑桥公爵夫人所做的一样。
Wearing a themed tie might be a bit obvious. Occasion-appropriate cuff links would probably be too hard for anyone to spot. But socks? They’re subtle enough not to be distracting, but visible enough that you can’t miss the point. That’s an original solution to the problem. And it’s working.
戴主题领带可能会有点扎眼。佩戴与场合相配的袖扣则有可能难以让人注意到。但袜子呢？它们足够低调，不会让人分心，但也足够显眼，不会让人错过。这是解决这个问题的很有独创性的办法。而且很有效。
Mr. Trudeau’s socks have begun to take on a life of their own, chronicled, and mostly celebrated, by observers everywhere.
特鲁多的袜子已经开始有了自己的生命，被各地的观察人士一一记录在案，而且大多数时候是表示称赞。
There are, of course, those who take exception to a head of government wearing what have historically been treated as joke, or kitsch, accessories.
当然，一位政府首脑穿着历来被当作笑话或刻奇的装饰品，也招致一些人的反感。
The point being that the socks reinforce the early criticism of Mr. Trudeau, voiced during his campaign for office, as a lightweight. (On the other hand, you could also see them as his attempt to own that stereotype and reverse it, now that he’s in power.)
他们想说的是，袜子强化了特鲁多在竞选公职早期受到的指责，即他不够严肃。（但换个角度看，如今他已经上任，你也可以说他这是在尝试承认这种刻板印象，并扭转它。）
And there are those who pointed out, vis-à-vis the Eid/Pride twofer, that many Muslim countries persecute or sometimes even kill gay citizens, and accused Mr. Trudeau of eliding the issue in his desire to acknowledge everyone at once.
也有人指出，说到同时致敬开斋节/骄傲游行，许多穆斯林国家会迫害、甚至杀害同性恋公民，由此指责特鲁多为了照顾到所有人，无视了这些问题。
But over all, the socks have been a source of, well, pride and applause on an international scale — a symbol both of Mr. Trudeau’s ability to embrace multiculturalism and of his position as a next-gen leader not bound by antiquated traditions and mores. Besides, they’re a good icebreaker. (See: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany bending down to admire Mr. Trudeau’s choice at NATO.) After all, even when there’s no obvious theme to celebrate, Mr. Trudeau rarely chooses the plain pair, opting for argyle or stripes instead, among other patterns. When he met the chairwoman of Xerox, he was wearing a diamond style. She complimented him.
但总的来说，袜子已经成为在国际层面获得骄傲与掌声的东西——既象征着特鲁多支持多元文化主义的能力，也显示出他作为不受过时传统与习俗约束的下一代领袖的立场。此外，它们也是一个不错的活跃气氛的选择。（比如：德国总理安格拉·默克尔曾特意弯下腰看特鲁多为北约会议选择的袜子。）毕竟，即便没有明显的主题要庆祝，特鲁多也很少穿普通的袜子，而是偏好菱形或条纹等图案。与施乐公司的女董事长会面时，他就穿了一双钻石风格的袜子，并获得了她的称赞。
While it’s doubtful Mr. Trudeau will immediately inspire a copycat trend of funky sock-wearing among other world leaders — even those, such as President Emmanuel Macron of France, who appear to be like-minded — it has nevertheless opened up possibilities for the future.
特鲁多不太可能在其他世界领导人中激起穿时髦袜子的风潮——虽说包括法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)在内的一些领导人似乎的确与他志趣相投——但它为未来打开了更多的可能。
In the meantime, the world watches, and waits, for Mr. Trudeau’s next sock statement.
与此同时，世界在关注和等待着特鲁多的下一场袜子声明。