OTTAWA — It began with a package addressed to Prime Minister Stephen Harper. Inside was a severed human foot. Other body parts soon appeared in other parcels in Ottawa and British Columbia. In Montreal, a curious janitor found a torso in an abandoned suitcase.
渥太华——最初是一个寄给总理斯蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)的包裹。里面是一只割下来的人脚。其他的人体部位很快出现在渥太华和不列颠哥伦比亚省的其他包裹里。在蒙特利尔，一个好奇的清洁工在一只遗弃的手提箱里发现了一具人体躯干。
The packages were only part of the grisly trail left by Luka Rocco Magnotta. In May 2012, Mr. Magnotta, a former pornographic film actor and escort, moved from posting online videos of himself killing kittens to recording his killing of Jun Lin, a Chinese student in Montreal, as well the dismemberment of Mr. Lin’s body and acts of necrophilia.
这些包裹只是卢卡·罗科·马尼奥塔(Luka Rocco Magnotta)留下的诸多触目惊心的犯罪踪迹的一部分。作过色情片演员兼男妓的马尼奥塔曾将自己宰杀小猫的视频传到网上，2012年5月，他将自己的目标转向蒙特利尔的中国学生林俊，录制了将他杀害、肢解的过程，及之后的恋尸癖行为。
After he was arrested in Germany in June 2012, Mr. Magnotta acknowledged what he had done, but his lawyers argued that he was not criminally responsible by reason of insanity. But after an often harrowing 10-week trial, jurors in Montreal rejected Mr. Magnotta’s plea. He was convicted on Tuesday of first-degree murder and four other charges, including committing an indignity to a body.
2012年6月在德国被捕后，马尼奥塔承认了自己的所为，但他的律师提出，由于精神失常，他不应该负担刑事责任。然而，经过为期10周令人痛苦不堪的审判，蒙特利尔的陪审团否决了马尼奥塔的抗辩。他在周二被判一级谋杀罪和另外四项罪名成立，包括侮辱尸体。
Under Canadian law, the first-degree murder conviction brings an automatic life sentence with no chance of parole for 25 years.
根据加拿大法律，一级谋杀罪意味着终身监禁，25年内不得保释。
The shocking nature of Mr. Lin’s death and the widespread publicity it generated meant that the Quebec Superior Court struggled to find 12 jurors and four alternates to try the case. During the trial, the jurors heard evidence suggesting that Mr. Magnotta was unusually vain even in his youth, and that the killing was effectively part of a calculated effort to become an online celebrity. They were shown trailers that Mr. Magnotta had posted online to promote the coming release of his video of the killing, dismemberment and other acts, titled “1 Lunatic, 1 Icepick.”
林俊之死的骇人案情，以及案件引来的媒体广泛报道，导致魁北克省最高法院(Quebec Superior Court)为本案寻找12名陪审员和四名替补的过程十分困难。审判期间，陪审员得知有证据表明马尼奥塔极其虚荣，在青少年时期就以如此，为成为网络名人，他精心策划了一系列行动，杀人只是其中一部分。陪审员看到了马尼奥塔为宣传他的一部视频而制作的预告片。视频本身展示了杀人、肢解以及其他行为，题为《一个狂人，一把冰锥》(1 Lunatic, 1 Icepick)。
Prosecutors argued that the only mental condition afflicting Mr. Magnotta was excessive narcissism. They suggested that by seducing Mr. Lin, as well as another man he bound and gagged but did not kill, Mr. Magnotta was retracing the plot of “Basic Instinct,” the 1992 film in which a novelist played by Sharon Stone seduced men and then killed them with an ice pick.
检方指出，马尼奥塔唯一的精神失常状况是极度自恋。他们认为，从他引诱林俊以及另一名被他捆绑、塞口但没有杀害的男子的情节看，马尼奥塔是在重现1992年的电影《本能》(Basic Instinct)的剧情，在该片中，莎朗·斯通(Sharon Stone)饰演的一名小说家引诱男人，而后用冰锥将他们杀死。
The trial judge, Justice Guy Cournoyer, rejected a request from prosecutors to screen that film for the jury, adding that he had dozed off while trying to watch it. “This is not a movie which has supported the test of time very nicely,” he said in court. “It’s such a bore.”
检方要求向陪审团播放这部影片，遭承审法官居依·库诺伊(Guy Cournoyer)拒绝，法官还表示自己在看此片时睡着了。“不是什么能经得起时间考验的电影，”他在法庭上说。“非常无聊。”
Defense lawyers argued that Mr. Magnotta’s online postings and the killing of Mr. Lin were a result of schizophrenia, and that he was psychotic at the time of the killing.
辩方律师提出，马尼奥塔杀害林俊并将视频传至网上的行为是罹患精神分裂症所致，他在杀戮那一刻是精神错乱的。
Before Mr. Lin’s body parts began appearing across Canada, Mr. Magnotta had been investigated by the police in Toronto, his hometown, in connection with the sexual assault of a 21-year-old woman who, experts said, had the mental capacity of an 8- to 12-year-old child. The charges were dropped. He was also investigated for and convicted of fraud.
在林俊的身体部位出现出现在加拿大各地之前，马尼奥塔的家乡多伦多的警方曾对他进行调查，原因是涉嫌对一名21岁女性进行性侵犯，专家称该女子的意识能力相当于8到12岁的儿童。指控最终被撤销。他还因涉嫌欺诈受调查并被定罪。
In 2007, he began anonymously posting comments online indicating that he was dating Karla Homolka, Canada’s most notorious female killer, who helped her husband rape, kill and torture three schoolgirls, including her younger sister. Mr. Magnotta then appeared at the offices of The Toronto Sun, a tabloid newspaper, to deny the suggestion.
2007年，他开始在网上发表匿名评论，称他在和加拿大最臭名昭彰的女杀人凶手卡拉·霍莫尔卡(Karla Homolka)约会，霍莫尔卡曾协助她的丈夫强奸、杀害和虐待了三名女学生，其中包括她的妹妹。而后马尼奥塔前往小报《多伦多太阳报》(The Toronto Sun)的办公室，否认了这一说法。
Three years later, Mr. Magnotta was identified by animal rights activists and later by the police as the source of several ghoulish videos in which a man is seen killing kittens by various means. In one of them, he wears a Santa Claus hat.
三年后，马尼奥塔被动物权益活动人士指认，而后警方也确认他是多则令人毛骨悚然的视频的作者，在这些视频中可以看到一名男子用各种手段杀死小猫。其中一则视频中他戴着一顶圣诞老人的帽子。