WASHINGTON — After failing to win a deal to end fighting in Gaza last week, Secretary of State John Kerry is trying to salvage Plan B: a succession of temporary cease-fires that he hopes might yet open the door to Israeli and Palestinian negotiations for a long-term solution.
华盛顿——上周未能成功推动一份结束加沙战事的协议后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)正在尝试挽救B计划：一连串的临时停火。克里希望，它们或许会开启一扇门，通往旨在达成一项长远方案的巴以谈判。
On Sunday, however, Mr. Kerry was having difficulty accomplishing even that, despite a phone call in which President Obama expressed growing concerns about the mounting death toll and urged Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to embrace an immediate humanitarian truce.
然而到了周日，就连在完成这件事上，克里也遇到了困难，尽管奥巴马总统在与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)通话时表示，对遇难者人数与日俱增的局面越来越担忧，并敦促他接受紧急人道主义休战。
Part of the reason the diplomatic effort has faced such an uphill struggle are far-reaching changes on both sides since the last Gaza cease-fire in 2012. Israel and Hamas seem to be dug in this time, with Israeli officials appearing dismissive of Mr. Kerry’s push for a weeklong cease-fire in a way that few American secretaries of state have faced during visits.
外交努力之所以面临这样艰苦卓绝的局面，部分原因是自2012年加沙上一次停火以来双方均发生了深远变化。这一次，以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)似乎都很固执，而且以色列官员看上去对克里推动的停火一周的倡议不屑一顾。鲜有美国国务卿在访问期间受过如此对待。
Hamas is holding out for a commitment to open major border crossings and ease the embargo after failing to get the benefits it had anticipated after the cease-fire two years ago.
哈马斯两年前同意停火后，未能获得期盼中的好处。现在，为了得到以色列开放主要过境关卡并松绑贸易禁令的承诺，哈马斯拒绝妥协。
Israel, after encountering a more formidable Hamas tunnel network than it had expected and being struck by longer-range missiles than ever, is determined not to stop until it has neutralized those threats.
而以色列发现了比之前预想的更难对付的哈马斯隧道网络，并受到了射程超过以往的导弹的攻击。于是，以色列决意要在消除了那些威胁后才停手。
The challenge of reconciling the seemingly irreconcilable is all the more difficult because there is no party that is in a position to mediate directly between Hamas and Israel.
因为没有能够在哈马斯和以色列之间直接斡旋的一方，让看上去势不两立的双方和解的挑战变得愈加艰难。
The United States does not deal directly with Hamas. And the countries with the closest ties, Qatar and Turkey, have fraught relations with Egypt, whose cease-fire plan has provided the broad framework for Mr. Kerry’s efforts.
美国并未直接与哈马斯接触。与哈马斯来往最密切的两个国家——卡塔尔和土耳其——又与埃及关系紧张，而克里努力的大框架则来自埃及制订的停火方案。
Robert Danin, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former senior State Department official, said that while it was premature to write off Mr. Kerry’s struggle to achieve a cease-fire, the challenges were formidable.
曾任国务院高级官员的对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)研究员罗伯特·达宁(Robert Danin)表示，尽管完全放弃克里为达成停火而进行的努力还为时过早，但其面临重重艰巨的挑战。
“There is nothing to suggest that either side is particularly desperate for a cease-fire,” Mr. Danin said. “Neither side believes a cease-fire will be the end of the conflict and they are looking at a truce as a way to position themselves for the next round of fighting.”
“没有迹象表明任何一方特别迫切地希望停火，”达宁说。“双方均不认为停火意味着冲突的结束，而是都把休战看成是一种调整部署以便进行下一轮战斗的途径。”
On July 21, President Obama declared that the window for a cease-fire was open because “significant damage” had been done to Hamas’s “terrorist infrastructure in Gaza.” But that was not an assessment that the Israeli military fully shared.
7月21日，奥巴马总统宣布停火的窗口已经敞开，因为哈马斯“在加沙的恐怖主义基础设施”遭到了“严重损坏”。但以色列军方并不完全认同这一评估。
After five days of marathon diplomacy in Egypt and Israel, Mr. Kerry presented Mr. Netanyahu with a confidential draft, titled “Framework for the Humanitarian Cease-Fire in Gaza.”
在埃及和以色列进行了五天的马拉松式的外交奔走之后，克里向内塔尼亚胡呈上了一份名为《加沙人道主义停火框架》(Framework for the Humanitarian Cease-Fire in Gaza)的机密草案。
A version of the document, which was presented on Friday, stated that a seven-day cease-fire was to be established by Sunday.
提交的时间是在上周五。一个版本称，计划于周日达成持续七天的停火。
Two days later, talks would begin in Cairo between Israel and the Palestinians on achieving an “enduring solution” to the crisis in Gaza, a phrase that Hamas could read as the lifting of the economic embargo and that Mr. Netanyahu could interpret as the neutralization of the group’s military threat to Israel.
两天后，以色列和巴勒斯坦将在开罗就达成加沙危机的“持久解决方案”开始进行谈判。对于“持久解决方案”的说法，哈马斯可以解读成取消经济封锁，而内塔尼亚胡则可以解读成消除该组织对以色列的军事威胁。
Mr. Kerry and his team thought that the document reflected language that could be basically acceptable to Israel because some of it concerning border crossings and security had paralleled the November 2012 Gaza cease-fire and the Egyptian proposal this month.
克里和他的团队认为，这份文件使用的措辞基本上能够被以色列所接受，因为其中关于边境关卡及安保的部分条款，和2012年11月达成的加沙停火协议及埃及本月给出的提议是一致的。
But rather than treating it as a working draft on which they would comment, Israeli officials appeared to think it tilted too far to Hamas’s position and did not do enough to address the security threat to Israel. Major elements of the plan were leaked to the Israeli media, and there has been a flow of criticism of Mr. Kerry since then by Israeli politicians on both the left and right.
不过，以色列官员并没有把它当成一份可以提出意见的工作草案，而是似乎认为它过于倾向于哈马斯的立场，却没有采取足够的措施来应对以色列受到的安全威胁。方案的主要内容被泄露给了以色列媒体，该国政坛左右两翼随后众口一词地对克里发起了源源不断的指责。
At a Friday night news conference in Cairo, a frustrated Mr. Kerry insisted that the paper was never intended to be a “formal proposal" and described the leaks as “mischievous.”
上周五夜间，在开罗举行的新闻发布会上，遇挫的克里坚称这份草案从头到尾都未定为“正式提案”，并将泄密一事称为“添乱”。
With no seven-day pause at hand, Israel and Hamas agreed to a 12-hour respite and Mr. Kerry raced to Paris. There he met with European foreign ministers to try to build support for a cease-fire, and held a three-way meeting with his Qatari and Turkish counterparts, who were functioning as negotiators for Hamas. The photos of Mr. Kerry meeting with the Qatari and Turkish foreign ministers did nothing to alleviate Israel’s concerns, but American officials say the discussions were needed to try to get Hamas on board.
虽然没能达成七天的停火协议，以色列和哈马斯还是同意暂时休战12小时，克里则赶到了巴黎。他在那里会见了欧洲多国的外长，以设法为停火提供支持。他还和代表哈马斯谈判的卡塔尔和土耳其同僚举行了为期三日的会谈。克里与这两国外长会晤的照片无益于缓解以色列的担忧，不过，美国官员表示，为了把哈马斯拉上谈判桌，必须展开这些讨论。
On Saturday, Mr. Kerry again pressed for an extension of the 12-hour cease-fire. By stringing together enough temporary periods of quiet, he calculated, there might yet be a way for the Israelis and the Palestinians to begin talks on a long-term solution.
周六，克里再次敦促双方延长最初的12小时停火。他的算盘是，通过促成一连串的短暂休战期，获许仍然有办法让以色列和巴勒斯坦启动谈判，讨论长远方案。
The Israeli side initially announced a four-hour cease-fire so that the earlier 12-hour truce would not run out before the Israeli cabinet had time to deliberate on whether to extend it for another day.
以色列方面一开始宣布再停火四小时，以保证之前宣布的12小时停火期限，不会在本国内阁就是否把停火再延长一天进行的讨论得出结论以前到期。
Some American officials believe that Hamas saw the reports of the four-hour cease-fire as a sign of bad faith since it was not the daylong truce they had been told was on the table.
一些美国官员认为，哈马斯把四小时停火的消息视为以方不守信用的标志，因为这和告知他们的一天停火方案并不吻合。