JERUSALEM — The Israeli military continued its substantial military attacks around Rafah in southern Gaza on Sunday, with Palestinian officials reporting that a strike near the entrance of a United Nations school sheltering displaced people killed 10 people and wounded 35 others.
耶路撒冷——以色列军队周日继续在加沙南部的沙拉周围展开相当规模的军事行动，有巴勒斯坦官员报告说，一枚炮弹落在一所收容避难者的联合国学校附近，导致10人死亡，另有35人受伤。
Witnesses said those killed or hurt were waiting in line for food supplies when a missile hit. A photographer said the target appeared to be a motorcycle near the entrance of the school in the center of Rafah. Some 3,000 Palestinians in the area, where the Israeli military has been battling Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters, had been sheltering in the facility. The Israeli military had no immediate comment, and the United Nations said it was not immediately clear where the strike originated.
目击者称，导弹落下时，那些死亡或受伤的人正在排队等待领取食物。一位摄影师说，导弹的目标似乎是拉法中心一所学校门口附近的一辆摩托车。这个地区的大约3000名巴勒斯坦人曾在该学校避难，以色列军方一直在该地区与哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织战士作战。以色列军方没有马上发表评论，联合国则表示，目前尚不清楚导弹是从哪里发射的。
Mohammed Muafai, who works for the United Nations there, said that he was inside the school when the missile hit. In a telephone interview, he said there were bodies on the ground, including two guards and a sanitation worker. He said seven more people from displaced families also died, including one selling flavored ice.
在当地为联合国工作的穆罕默德·穆阿法伊(Mohammed Muafai)说，导弹落下时，他正在学校里面。他在接受电话采访时说，地上有尸体，其中包括两名警卫和一名环卫工人。他说，另有7位死者来自避难的家庭，其中一位是出售加味冰的小贩。
Dr. Abdullah Shehada, director of the Abu Youssef Al-Najjar hospital in Rafah, which was vacated and moved to a smaller hospital, the Kuwaiti Specialized Hospital, said more than 30 of the injured were brought to the smaller institution. “We call for halting the Israeli operation around Abu Youssef Al-Najjar so we can return,” he said.
拉法的阿布·优素福·纳贾尔医院已撤离原址，搬到更小的科威特专科医院所在地，大医院的院长阿卜杜拉·谢哈达(Abdullah Shehada)博士说，30多个伤者被送到小医院。他说，“我们呼吁以色利停止在阿布·优素福·纳贾尔医院附近的袭击，让我们能返回原址。”
Last Wednesday, 21 Palestinians who sought refuge in a United Nations-run school in Jabaliya refugee camp were killed, health ministry officials said, in a series of pre-dawn strikes. The Israeli military has said that it did not target the school and that Palestinian fighters were operating within 200 yards of the facility that morning. After an earlier strike on a school serving as a shelter in Beit Hanoun that killed 16, the Israelis acknowledged they fired a mortar that hit the courtyard, which was empty at the time.
卫生部官员说，上周三，在一连串的黎明前袭击中，有21名在贾巴利亚难民营联合国办的学校寻求避难的巴勒斯坦人被打死。以色列军方说，它没有把学校作为袭击目标，并表示巴勒斯坦战士那天早上在离学校不到200米远的地方活动。拜特哈嫩一个作为避难所的学校被炸，导致16人死亡之后，以色列承认他们发射的一枚迫击炮弹击中了学校的院子，当时院子是空的。
Earlier on Sunday, airstrikes killed at least 30 Palestinians, medics and witnesses said. The deadliest strikes hit homes in Rafah and in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza Strip.
周日早些时候的空袭至少炸死了30名巴勒斯坦人，据医务人员和目击者说。导致死亡人数最多的空袭分别击中了拉法和加沙地带中部的努塞拉特难民营的房屋。
Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the Palestinian Health Ministry, said that nine members of a family were killed in an air attack in Rafah. Earlier Sunday, six Palestinians were killed in separate airstrikes on houses in the Nuseirat refugee camp. At midnight Saturday, before the attacks on Sunday, the health ministry put the cumulative death toll in Gaza at 1,712.
巴勒斯坦卫生部发言人阿什拉夫·奎德拉(Ashraf al-Qedra)说，有一家9口在拉法空袭中被炸死。周日早些时候，还有6名巴勒斯坦人在另外的努塞拉特难民营房屋的空袭中被炸死。周六午夜，也就是在周日的袭击之前，巴勒斯坦卫生部提供的加沙累计死亡人数为1712人。
Israeli officials on Sunday defended their decision to announce the death of a missing Israeli soldier at 2 a.m., only hours after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu went on national television to say that he had no new information about the case.
以色列官员周日为其在凌晨2点宣布失踪的以色列士兵死亡的决定作出解释，就在几个小时之前，本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)总理还在全国电视上说，他没有有关士兵情况的新信息。
Army spokesmen said on Sunday that the declaration of the death of Second Lt. Hadar Goldin, 23, was made as soon as possible and that DNA tests had been carried out on partial remains found after the lieutenant and two colleagues were attacked by a Hamas squad that emerged from a tunnel on Friday. One of the Hamas fighters had exploded a suicide belt.
以军发言人周日说，宣告23岁的哈达尔·戈尔丁少尉(Second Lt. Hadar Goldin)死亡是尽可能快地做出的，已经对现场找到的部分遗骸做了DNA鉴定，戈尔丁中尉和两名同事在上周五受到从地道中钻出来的哈马斯小分队的袭击。其中一名哈马斯战士引爆了自杀腰带。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, the army spokesman, said that tests were done “on items found on the field” and in the tunnel into which the Hamas squad retreated with the lieutenant, including his bloody uniform, leading to fears that he had been captured alive. “We can’t determine if he was killed on the ground or from the blast,” Colonel Lerner said. “The indications on the ground are that he was killed in the initial attack.”
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col.Peter Lerner)表示，鉴定是用从地道中和“现场找到的实物上”做的，包括中尉血染的制服，哈马斯小分队撤退回地道时曾带着中尉，引起人们对他被活捉的担心。勒纳说，“我们不能确认他是在地面上被打死的、还是被炸死的。 地面上的迹象表明，他是在最初的袭击中丧生的。”
He said that the tests had been carried out during the Sabbath because it was an emergency situation. The relatives of Lieutenant Goldin had made emotional appeals earlier on Saturday, before Mr. Netanyahu spoke, that Israel and its army not leave the lieutenant behind, and they said that they believed he was still alive.
勒纳说，鉴定是在安息日做的，因为这是一个紧急情况。周六早些时候，在内塔尼亚胡发表讲话之前，戈尔丁的亲属曾情绪激动地恳求以色列及其军方不要丢下中尉不管，他们说，他们相信中尉还活着。
His funeral is expected later on Sunday. Lieutenant Goldin’s case is unlike others in which there were no remains, Colonel Lerner said, referring to an earlier Israeli soldier feared captured and later announced to be dead. The Goldin family will have some remains to bury.
中尉的葬礼预期将在周日晚些时候举行。戈尔丁的情况不同于其他的没有找到遗骸的情况，勒纳说，他指的是以前一个担心被俘的以色列士兵，后来宣布他已经死亡。戈尔丁的家人将有一些遗骸可以埋葬。
“There were remains found also in the tunnel,” Colonel Lerner said. “That led us to think that there is the possibility that” the Hamas squad members “have body parts.”
“在地道中也找到一些遗骸，”勒纳说。“这让我们认为有一种可能性，即”哈马斯小分队成员“带走了一些遗骸。”
For its part, Hamas’s military wing, while taking credit for the operation, said on Saturday that it had no information about the lieutenant and had lost contact with its squad, suggesting that all involved were dead. On Friday, Israeli forces immediately used a protocol for captured soldiers known as “Operation Hannibal” to pursue the Hamas squad into the tunnel and try to cut off any possibility of escape.
就哈马斯军事派而言，虽然宣布袭击是他们做的，但他们在周六表示，没有关于中尉的信息，并已与小分队失去联系，这暗示所有参加袭击者都已死亡。上周五，以色列军队马上启用了一个针对被俘士兵的名为“汉尼拔行动”(Operation Hannibal)的方案，进入地道追击哈马斯小分队，试图切断其任何可能的逃路。
Hannibal includes hot pursuit and an option to engage the enemy “even at risk of the soldier,” Colonel Lerner said.
勒纳说，汉尼拔行动包括紧追敌人，与其交火，“即使让被俘士兵处于危险之中。”
Israel has said that the attack occurred during an agreed cease-fire with Hamas; Hamas has said variously that it took place before the cease-fire went into effect and that it had never agreed to a cease-fire that would allow Israel to continue destroying the tunnel system. But the incident put an end to a cease-fire effort pressed by Washington and the United Nations.
以色列表示，袭击发生在​​与哈马斯商定好的休火期间；哈马斯则做出不同的表示，有说袭击发生在停火生效之前，也有说，从未同意允许以色列继续拆毁地道系统的停火。但是，此次事件结束了华盛顿和联合国迫使双方停火的努力。
Two other Israelis were killed in the incident: a company commander, Maj. Benaya Sarel, and a radioman, Staff Sgt. Liel Gidoni. The soldiers who entered the tunnel said that one shaft led to a mosque and the other to a Hamas bunker.
另外两名以色列人也在袭击中被打死：连长本阿雅·萨雷尔少校(Maj. Benaya Sarel)和无线电技师里尔·吉东尼上士(Staff Sgt. Liel Gidoni)。据进入地道的士兵说，其中一条通到一个清真寺，另一条联到一个哈马斯地堡。
The Goldin family was notified of the decision to declare the lieutenant dead by Defense Minister Moshe Yaalon and two officers, including the chief military rabbi, Brig. Gen. Rafi Peretz. The family said that they accepted the military’s conclusion and thanked the people of Israel for their support. A group of people outside the family house in Kfar Saba, near Tel Aviv, were singing the Israeli national anthem, and some burst into tears when informed of the death.
国防部长摩西·亚阿隆(Moshe Yaalon)和两名军官，其中包以色列国防军首席拉比拉菲·佩雷兹准将(Brig. Gen. Rafi Peretz)，把宣布上尉死亡的决定告知了戈尔丁的家人。他的家人说，他们接受军方的结论，并感谢以色列人民所表达的支持。在他家位于特拉维夫附近的卡法萨巴(Kfar Saba)的住房外，有一群人在唱以色列国歌，其中有人在得知死亡宣布后痛哭流涕。
Lieutenant Goldin is a relative of Mr. Yaalon. Mr. Yaalon’s grandfather and Lieutenant Goldin’s grandmother were brother and sister. The families know one another and Mr. Yaalon lectured at Lieutenant Goldin’s school. Israel’s military censor had blocked publication of that detail of their family relationship until the death was announced Sunday, concerned that Hamas might profit from that knowledge and demand a higher price for his return. International journalists must agree in writing to comply with the censorship system in order to work in Jerusalem; Friday was the first time in more than six years that the censor had contacted The New York Times.
戈尔丁和亚阿隆是亲戚，亚阿隆的祖父与戈尔丁的祖母是兄妹。他们的家庭常有往来，亚阿隆也曾在戈尔丁的学校讲过课。以色列军方曾一度封锁了这些家庭关系细节，直到周日的死亡宣布之前，因为担心哈马斯会从中得利，为交出他索要更高的价钱。国际新闻记者为了在耶路撒冷工作，必须签署遵守审查制度的书面协议；周五是6年多来检查官第一次找到《纽约时报》门上。
Later Sunday, Mr. Yaalon tweeted in Hebrew: “Hadar Goldin of blessed memory was a member of my family. I have known him since he was born. He and IDF fighters who fell went to battle to return the quiet and the security to Israel. I embrace the families.”
周日晚些时候，亚阿隆用希伯来文在Twitter发帖写道：“已故的哈达尔·戈尔丁是我家的成员。自从他出生后我就认识他。他和牺牲了的以色列国防军战士是为了给以色列带来宁静和安全的环境而战。我拥抱他们的家庭。”
Israel’s military operation will continue, Colonel Lerner said. “There is no end in sight,” he said. “The reality on the ground can take us in either direction.” But he confirmed that once the operations to destroy the tunnels were completed, which he said could take 24 hours, some Israeli troops would redeploy away from populated areas and take up positions near the Israeli border with Gaza. “We are moving forces to different locations, but it will still let us carry out operational activities on the ground as required,” he said.
勒纳表示，以色列的军事行动将继续下去。“目前还看不到结束的时间，”他说。“地面战的现实可以将我们带到任何一个方向。”但他证实，摧毁地道行动可能再需要24个小时就能完成，这之后，一些以色列部队将重新部署到远离居民区、靠近以色列与加沙边界的位置上。他说，“我们正把部队调动到其他地方，但仍将允许我们在有必要时展开地面作战。”