A newly agreed cease-fire in the Gaza conflict collapsed soon after it came into effect on Friday with the Israeli military announcing that two soldiers were killed and a third appeared to have been captured by Palestinian militants who emerged from a tunnel near Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip.
周五刚刚达成的加沙停火协议在生效后不久即告破裂。以色列军方宣布巴勒斯坦民兵打死了以军两名士兵，抓走了一名。以方说这些民兵是从加沙地带南部拉法市一条地道钻出来的。
Gaza health officials said that 35 Palestinians were killed and more than 100 wounded as Israeli forces bombarded the area. Palestinian witnesses said by telephone that Israeli tank shells hit eastern Rafah as residents returned to inspect homes they had evacuated.
加沙卫生官员说，以军炮击了这个地区，有35名巴勒斯坦人被打死，100人受伤。巴勒斯坦目击者通过电话说，以色列坦克在居民返回家园之际，轰击了拉法市东部。
Hamas blamed Israel for violating the truce, saying in a statement that the announcement about the capture of one of its soldiers was “to cover up the barbaric massacres, especially in Rafah.”
哈马斯谴责以色列违反停火协议，在一则声明中说，以军宣称一名士兵被抓走是为了“掩盖野蛮屠杀的行为，特别是在拉法市。”
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli military, said that government forces were moving to destroy a tunnel, as the terms of the cease-fire allowed for, when several militants came out of the ground.
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)说，当时，政府军正在摧毁地道，几名民兵钻了出来。毁坏地道的行为是停火协议允许的。
Colonel Lerner said the militants included at least one suicide attacker, that there was an exchange of fire on the ground and that initial indications were that a soldier was apparently dragged back into the tunnel. He said the episode began at around 9:30 a.m., roughly 90 minutes after the 72-hour cease-fire came into effect.
勒纳中校说，这些民兵中有至少一名自杀式袭击者，地面发生了交火，初步判断，一名士兵被他们拖回了地下。他说，事件发生在上午9点30分，72小时停火生效仅仅过了90分钟之后。
“The cease-fire is over,” Colonel Lerner said, adding that the military was carrying out “extensive operations on the ground” to try to locate the missing soldier.
“停火结束了，”勒纳中校说，并说军队正展开“大范围地面行动”寻找失踪的士兵。
NEW DELHI — Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations announced early Friday that Israel and Hamas had agreed to a 72-hour humanitarian cease-fire in the Gaza conflict.
新德里——周五清早，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)共同宣布，以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)已就加沙冲突达成72小时的人道主义停火协议。
“The United Nations representative in Jerusalem, Special Coordinator Robert Serry, has received assurances that all parties have agreed to an unconditional humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza,” Mr. Kerry said in a joint statement with Mr. Ban.
克里在与潘基文的联合声明中表示，“联合国驻耶路撒冷特使、特别协调员罗伯特·塞里(Robert Serry)已经得到保证，各方均同意在加沙进行无条件人道主义停火。”
The surprise announcement of the agreement — reached while Mr. Kerry had just begun a visit to India — came amid growing international pressure for even a temporary halt to the bitter fighting between Israel and the militants of Hamas and its affiliates in Gaza, the Mediterranean enclave of 1.7 million.
这项协议的宣布出人预料——此时克里刚刚开始其印度之行。此前，国际社会一直在加大施压力度，希望在加沙激战的以色列和哈马斯武装人员及其下属组织至少能达成临时停火。加沙是一块地中海边的飞地，容纳了170万人口。
More than 1,400 people in Gaza have been killed, and the Israeli assaults have caused deepening tensions with the United States and the United Nations. A number of United Nations facilities in Gaza, notably schools serving as shelters, have been hit in deadly strikes, even as Israel has denied intentionally attacking them.
加沙已有逾1400人丧生，而且以色列的袭击使该国与美国和联合国的矛盾日益激化。加沙的一系列联合国设施都遭到了致命打击，尤其是其中还包括作为避难所的学校。不过，以色列否认故意以这些设施作为袭击目标。
The cease-fire was to begin at 8 a.m. local time on Friday. It was to last for 72 hours unless it is extended.
停火协议将于当地时间周五上午8点开始生效，如果不额外延长的话，将持续72小时。
“During this time the forces on the ground will remain in place,” said the announcement, meaning that Israeli troops who have entered Gaza can remain. As soon as it takes hold, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators will head to Cairo for talks.
“停火期间，地面部队将留在原地，”声明称。这意味着，已经进入加沙的以色列军队可以留在那里。一旦停火局面稳定下来，以色列和巴勒斯坦的谈判人员就将前往开罗进行谈判。
“We urge all parties to act with restraint until this humanitarian cease-fire begins, and to fully abide by their commitments during the cease-fire,” the statement said.
声明称，“我们敦促各方在人道主义停火开始前保持克制，在停火期间完全遵守承诺。”
Shortly after the announcement, word came from Hamas confirming that it was in agreement. “In response to the United Nations call and due to the circumstances of our people,” said the statement by Izzat al-Risheq, a Hamas official based in Lebanon, “the Palestinian resistance factions agree on a mutual humanitarian truce starting at 8 a.m. Friday, as long as the other side is committed to it.”
在声明发布不久后，传来了哈马斯确认停火的消息。“为了回应联合国的呼吁，而且考虑到我们民众的处境，”身处黎巴嫩的哈马斯官员伊扎特·里舍克(Izzat al-Risheq)在宣布，“巴勒斯坦各抵抗派别同意于周五上午8点开始实施双边人道主义休战，只要对方也信守承诺。”
The statement by Mr. Kerry and Mr. Ban said the cease-fire was “critical to giving innocent civilians a much-needed reprieve from violence.” During the period, it said, “civilians in Gaza will receive urgently needed humanitarian relief, and the opportunity to carry out vital functions, including burying the dead, taking care of the injured, and restocking food supplies. Overdue repairs on essential water and energy infrastructure could also continue during this period.”
克里和潘基文发表的联合声明指出，停火对“让无辜平民暂时从暴力中解脱出来颇为关键，这是他们急需的。”声明称，停火期间，“加沙的民众将获得迫切需要的人道主义援助，并有机会完成重要工作，包括掩埋死者、照顾伤员和补充食品供给。在此期间，还能继续展开至关重要的水和能源基础设施的逾期维修工作。”
In addition, the statement said: “Israeli and Palestinian delegations will immediately be going to Cairo for negotiations with the government of Egypt, at the invitation of Egypt, aimed at reaching a durable cease-fire. The parties will be able to raise all issues of concern in these negotiations.”
此外，声明中还表示：“应埃及的邀请，以色列和巴勒斯坦的代表团将立即前往开罗，与埃及政府一道进行谈判，旨在达成持久的停火协议。各方将在这些谈判中提出关心的所有问题。
The statement thanked “key regional stakeholders for their vital support of this process, and count on a continued collaborative international effort to assist Egypt and the parties reach a durable cease-fire as soon as possible.”
声明感谢“关键的地区性利益相关方对这一过程的重要支持，并希望国际社会继续合作，协助埃及和巴以双方尽快达成持久停火协议。”
There had been little hint earlier in the day that a cease-fire plan was in the works — on the contrary, Israel called up more reservists in anticipation of more fighting.
当天早些时候，几乎没有迹象表明停火方案正在筹备之中——相反，预计战事将加剧的以色列再次召集了预备役军人。