A fisherman who had for years volunteered to help untangle endangered whales from fishing lines was struck and killed by a whale off New Brunswick, Canada, on Monday shortly after helping in its rescue, a Canadian agency said.
一个加拿大政府机构周一称，一位渔民在加拿大新不伦瑞克海岸帮助解救一头鲸鱼之后遭重击遇难，这位渔民常年自愿帮助解救被捕鱼绳困住的鲸鱼。
The volunteer, Joe Howlett, was on a Department of Fisheries and Oceans “fast response” vessel and helping to cut lines from an entangled North Atlantic right whale, the department’s minister, Dominic LeBlanc, said in a statement.
加拿大渔业与海洋部(Department of Fisheries and Oceans)部长多米尼克·勒布朗(Dominic LeBlanc)在一项声明中表示，志愿者乔·豪利特(Joe Howlett)当时正在该部“快速响应”船上，帮助切断一只被困的北大西洋露脊鲸身上的绳索。
Mr. Howlett, who was a member of the Campobello Whale Rescue Team, was struck just after the whale was cut free and began to swim away in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
豪利特是坎波贝洛岛鲸鱼拯救队(Campobello Whale Rescue Team)成员，他是在鲸鱼刚被解救、开始游离圣劳伦斯湾时被击中的。
“They got the whale totally disentangled, and then some kind of freak thing happened and the whale made a big flip,” Mackie Green of the team told The Canadian Press. Mr. Green started the rescue team with Mr. Howlett in 2002.
“他们完全解开了鲸鱼身上的绳索，然后发生了一件反常的事，鲸鱼猛地翻了个身，”该团队的麦基·格林(Mackie Green)对加拿大新闻社(The Canadian Press)说。格林和豪利特2002年创立了该救援队。
This was the first human fatality in the history of the Atlantic Large Whale Disentanglement Network, a consortium of trained authorized responders who work along the east coast of Canada and the United States, the Center for Coastal Studies in Provincetown, Mass., said in a Facebook post.
马萨诸塞州普罗温斯敦的海岸研究中心(Center for Coastal Studies)在Facebook上发帖称，这是大西洋大鲸鱼解救网(Atlantic Large Whale Disentanglement Network)历史上的第一起人员伤亡事故，该团体由受过训练、获得授权的救援人员组成，在加拿大和美国东海岸展开工作。
In his statement, Mr. LeBlanc said participating in whale rescue operations “requires immense bravery and a passion for the welfare of marine mammals” and described Mr. Howlett as an “irreplaceable member of the whale rescue community.”
勒布朗在声明中表示，参与鲸鱼救援行动“需要巨大的勇气以及保护海洋哺乳动物的热忱”，称豪利特是“鲸鱼拯救团体中不可取代的成员”。
He added: “There are serious risks involved with any disentanglement attempt. Each situation is unique, and entangled whales can be unpredictable.”
他还表示：“任何一次解救行动都有很大的风险。每次的情况都不一样，被困鲸鱼的举动可能很难预测。”
Mr. Howlett was remembered on Wednesday as a dedicated volunteer who helped save dozens of whales in the last 15 years. The International Fund for Animal Welfare said in a statement that he “lived and breathed” that mission.
周三，在豪利特的追悼会上，人们怀念这位忠诚的志愿者，在过去15年里，他帮助拯救了几十头鲸鱼。国际爱护动物基金会(International Fund for Animal Welfare)在一项声明中称，豪利特与这项使命“同呼吸、共命运”。
Jerry Conway of the Canadian Whale Institute in Campobello, New Brunswick, told The Canadian Press that Mr. Howlett had freed another North Atlantic right whale only a few days earlier in roughly the same area.
新不伦瑞克坎波贝洛岛加拿大鲸鱼协会(Canadian Whale Institute)的杰里·康韦(Jerry Conway)在接受加拿大新闻社采访时表示，就在几天前，豪利特在差不多同一个区域解救了另一头北大西洋露脊鲸。
“He is a very knowledgeable fishermen, and who better to do disentanglements than a fisherman who knows the knots and the ropes and the gear?” he said.
“他是一位知识非常丰富的渔民，还有谁能比精通打结、绳索和齿轮的渔民更擅长解开绳索呢？”他说。
Mr. Howlett was featured in a video by the International Fund for Animal Welfare that explained how rescuers use hooked knives at the end of long poles to rescue whales ensnared in fishing ropes.
豪利特曾出现在国际爱护动物基金会的一个视频中。那个视频讲述了救援人员如何使用绑在长杆末端的小刀解救被捕鱼绳捆住的鲸鱼。
Being entangled makes it difficult for a whale to dive or swim, which are crucial for feeding. The rescue highlighted in the video took five hours to complete after the whale got lines wrapped around both its flippers and through its mouth.
被绳索捆住的鲸鱼很难潜水或游泳，而这些对它们的捕食极为关键。视频重点讲述的一次救援花了五个小时才完成，因为那头鲸鱼的鳍和嘴巴都被绳索捆住了。
The North Atlantic right whale is one of the most endangered large whales, with an estimated 500 left, conservationists say.
保护工作者表示，北大西洋露脊鲸是最濒危的大型鲸鱼之一，估计只剩下500头。
As of July 6, seven right whales were reported dead in the last month in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the Marine Animal Response Society in Halifax, Nova Scotia, said on its Facebook page.
新斯科舍省哈利法克斯的海洋动物响应协会(Marine Animal Response Society)在自己的Facebook网页上称，截至7月6日，上个月在圣劳伦斯湾已有七头露脊鲸被报告死亡。