BEIJING — Canada said on Wednesday that it had applied to join China’s version of the World Bank, breaking with previous leaders who had shared United States officials’ skepticism of the new Beijing-led lender.
北京——加拿大周三表示已申请加入中国版的世界银行，此举改变了该国以前领导人的态度，他们曾与美国官员一起对这家新的、由北京领导的借贷机构表示怀疑。
The move came during a five-day trip to China by the prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, who is seeking to burnish trade, business and political ties with Beijing. China’s relationship with the previous Canadian government had been lukewarm.
此举是加拿大总理贾斯汀·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)在为期五天的中国之行期间做出的，特鲁多正在寻求与北京加强贸易、商业和政治关系。中国与加拿大上届政府的关系一直不冷不热。
The membership would provide a lift for the lender, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a Chinese-led organization that counts 57 countries as members and that is looking to expand by about an additional 30. The bank — founded last year to fund roads, power lines and other needed infrastructure projects in Asia — is widely seen as an extension of China’s growing economic and political heft and as a counterweight to the World Bank and other institutions dominated by Western countries.
加拿大的加入将提振亚洲基础设施投资银行这一借贷机构。中国领导的亚投行目前有57个成员国，并希望增加30个成员国。去年成立的亚投行被广泛认为是中国日益增长的经济和政治实力的延伸，是中国与世界银行和其他西方国家主导机构的抗衡。亚投行将为修建道路、输电线以及亚洲所需的其他基础设施项目提供资金。
The previous Canadian government, led by Stephen Harper, hesitated in joining the bank, saying that it wanted to ensure that the institution’s financial and environmental standards were sound. The Obama administration expressed similar reservations, and during the genesis of the bank, it advised several allies, including Australia and South Korea, not to join.
斯蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)领导下的上届加拿大政府曾对加入亚投行犹豫不决，说希望能确定该机构的财务和环境标准是可靠的。奥巴马政府表达了类似的保留态度，在亚投行创建时，美国曾建议一些盟国不加入该行，其中包括澳大利亚和韩国。
Both countries eventually ignored Washington and became founding members of the bank that is intended to both compete and cooperate with existing lending institutions. Britain also broke with the United States over the new bank and became an inaugural member along with France, Germany and Italy.
那两个国家最终没有理睬华盛顿，以创始成员国的身份加入了旨在与现有的贷款机构既竞争又合作的亚投行。英国也在亚投行问题上与美国破裂，与法国、德国和意大利一起成为亚投行的创始成员国。
American officials have since softened their criticism and have encouraged the Chinese to finance projects with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank as a way of ensuring what they consider acceptable standards of environmental and lending practices.
自那以后，美国官员已缓和了他们的批评态度，并开始鼓励中国与世界银行和亚洲开发银行一起投资项目，从而确保环境和借贷活动符合他们认为的可接受的标准。
China is Canada’s second-largest single trading partner, after the United States, and it is a major buyer of Canadian timber, paper, metals and fertilizer. China, in turn, has become a major investor in Canada, buying up oil and natural gas reserves and high-end homes in Vancouver.
中国是加拿大仅次于美国的第二大贸易伙伴，也是加拿大木材、纸张、金属和化肥的主要买家。同时，中国已成了加拿大的一个主要投资者，购买石油和天然气贮备，还在温哥华购买高档住宅。
For Canada, joining the bank could help strengthen its relationship with a country that is increasingly important to its economy. “Canada’s membership will create commercial opportunities for Canadian companies and create jobs for the middle class,” said Canada’s finance minister, Bill Morneau, at a news conference with the bank’s president, Jin Liqun.
对加拿大来说，中国对加拿大的经济越来越重要，加入亚投行可能会帮助其加强与中国的关系。“成为亚投行成员国将为加拿大公司创造商业机会，为本国中产阶级创造就业机会，”加拿大财政部长比尔·莫诺(Bill Morneau)在与亚投行行长金立群一起举行的新闻发布会上说。
Mr. Jin said he interpreted Canada’s application for membership as a “vote of confidence.” Canada is a leader in environmental matters and had a record as a “clean” government, attributes that match the bank’s efforts to be “lean, green and clean,” he said. “We have zero tolerance of corruption,” he said.
金立群说，他把加拿大的申请加入解释为该国对亚投行“抱有信心”；加拿大在环境保护方面是领导者，有“干净”政府的良好记录，这些都与亚投行“精干、廉洁、绿色”的理念相符；亚投行“对腐败采取‘零容忍’态度”。
Mr. Jin acknowledged that one of the bank’s five vice presidents, Hong Kyttack, a former finance official in South Korea, had taken a six-month leave after allegations that he had been negligent in giving loans to Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering during his tenure at the Korean Development Bank.
金立群承认，亚投行的五位副行长之一、韩国前财务官员洪起泽(Hong Kyttack)将休职六个月，此前洪起泽被指控在韩国产业银行任职期间，在向大宇造船和海运工程公司提供贷款上失职。
Mr. Hong had served as the chief risk officer for the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and the bank was now seeking a replacement, Mr. Jin said.
金立群说，洪起泽曾担任亚投行的首席风险官，亚投行现在正在寻找替代他的人。
At its first annual meeting in June, the bank announced $509 million in loans for four modest projects in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Pakistan and Tajikistan. Three of the projects are being financed with other institutions — the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development — a cautious approach that has helped build the bank’s credibility.
在今年6月举行的首次年度会议上，亚投行宣布向孟加拉国、印度尼西亚、巴基斯坦和塔吉克斯坦的四个不大的项目发放5.09亿美元的贷款。项目中有三个也得到了其他机构——亚洲开发银行、世界银行和欧洲重建和发展银行——的资助，这种审慎的做法已帮助亚投行建立了信誉。
The bank said Canada and other new members are expected to join early next year.
亚投行表示，加拿大等新成员国有望在明年年初加入。