BEIT HANOUN, Gaza Strip — A series of explosions at a school run by the United Nations sheltering hundreds of Palestinians who had fled their homes for safety from Israeli military assaults killed at least 16 people on Thursday afternoon and wounded many more. The cause was not immediately clear.
加沙地带拜特哈嫩——周四下午，一所联合国管理的学校发生了一系列爆炸，导致至少16人丧生，另有许多人受伤。这所学校庇护了数百名为躲避以色列军方袭击，从家中逃往安全地带的巴勒斯坦人。袭击的原因无法立即查清。
Many Palestinians initially presumed it was an Israeli strike that hit the shelter in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun, but the Israeli military suggested soon afterward that errant Palestinian-fired munitions might have been the source. The local director of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which runs the school, said he could not be sure.
许多巴勒斯坦人最初推断，是以色列发动的袭击，击中了这个位于加沙北部拜特哈嫩(Beit Hanoun)的庇护所，不过以色列军方不久后表示，爆炸可能是巴方发射的炮弹打偏造成的。学校的经营方联合国难民救济和工程处（United Nations Relief and Works Agency，简称UNRWA）驻当地的负责人表示，他不能确定袭击者是谁。
Israeli officials denied having intentionally targeted the school and said they had warned the United Nations three days earlier that the school should be evacuated because the surrounding area was a combat zone.
以色列官员否认他们蓄意攻击学校。以方称，早在三天前，就曾警告过联合国，这所学校的周围是一片战斗区域，应该马上疏散校内人员。
The civilians who had taken refuge in the school had been gathering in the courtyard preparing to flee just when it was hit multiple times, according to witnesses.
据目击者透露，在学校里避难的平民聚集在院子里准备撤离，就是在这时，学校受到了多次攻击。
The shelling of the school, on the 17th day of an increasingly bloody conflict between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza, came just as efforts led by Secretary of State John Kerry to establish a cease-fire were intensifying.
以色列与巴勒斯坦武装人员在加沙地带的血腥冲突日趋激烈。学校遭到炮轰一事，发生在冲突进入第17天。此时，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)也在更加努力地推动实现停火。
Hamas, the militant group that rules Gaza and is leading the fight for the Palestinians, accused Israel of striking the school, calling it “an ugly war crime.”
统治加沙的巴勒斯坦阻止哈马斯指责以色列袭击了学校，称这是“丑恶的战争罪”。
Whoever was responsible for the school casualties, it was the kind of event that could increase diplomatic pressure on the combatants to stop the fighting, which has left more than 750 Palestinians dead from Israeli attacks, most of them civilians. On the Israeli side, 32 soldiers and three civilians have been killed.
不管这所学校的伤亡是谁造成的，这起事件都会增加交战双方承受的外交压力，促使他们停止战斗。在此次冲突中，已有750多名巴勒斯坦人因为以方的袭击身亡，其中大多数人是平民。而以色列一方有32名士兵和三名平民身亡。
“We are deeply saddened and concerned about the tragic incident at the U.N. Relief and Works Agency school and about the rising civilian death toll in Gaza,” Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, said in a statement. “This also underscores the need to end the violence and to achieve a sustainable cease-fire and enduring resolution to the crisis in Gaza as soon as possible.”
“我们对联合国救济工程处经营的学校发生的悲剧事件，以及加沙地带日渐上升的平民死亡人数深感悲痛，也深为担忧，”美国国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在一则声明中表示。“这起事件也突显了，有必要尽快停止冲突、达成可持续的停火协议，为加沙危机找到持久的解决方案。”
Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary-general, who was in the region this week to try to advance cease-fire efforts and met with Mr. Kerry on Wednesday, said in a statement that he was “appalled” by the school attack.
本周在该地区推动停火联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)于周三会见了克里。潘基文在一则声明中表示，自己对学校遇袭感到“震惊”。
“Many have been killed — including women and children, as well as U.N. staff,” he said. “Circumstances are still unclear. I strongly condemn this act.” He said that throughout the day, United Nations staff had been attempting to arrange a pause in the hostilities so that civilians could be evacuated.
“有许多人被杀——包括妇女和儿童，以及联合国的工作人员，”他说。“情况依然不明朗。我强烈谴责这种行为。”他说，联合国工作人员一整天都在试图安排双方暂时停火，以便平民撤离该区域。
The Palestinian Ministry of Health in Gaza said at least 16 people had been killed and “a large number” wounded at the Beit Hanoun school.
驻在加沙地区的巴勒斯坦卫生部表示，拜特哈嫩的学校里至少有16人丧生，还有“众多”平民受伤。
A senior Israeli military official, Brig. Gen. Michael Edelstein, the commander of the Gaza division, told reporters in a telephone briefing that he did not yet know what had happened. “If we made a mistake, we will say it,” he said.
以色列军方高官、加沙地区指挥官迈克尔·埃德尔斯坦准将(Brig. Gen. Michael Edelstein)在电话通报中对记者们表示，他还不知道发生了什么事。“如果我们犯了错误，我们会实话实说。”他说。
He said Israel was not acting intentionally against any United Nations infrastructure in Gaza. “We would never bomb such a place,” he said.
他表示，以色列没有蓄意攻击联合国在加沙的任何设施。“我们绝不会轰炸这样一个地方，”他说。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, an Israeli military spokesman, said that troops had not targeted the school but that fighting was raging nearby. He said several rockets aimed at Israel had fallen short and landed in the area around the same time. “Indeed, there was combat there, and we have to determine whether it has anything to do with us,” Colonel Lerner said. “We have decisive information that several projectiles launched from within Gaza struck in Beit Hanoun between 2 o’clock and 4:15.”
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col.Peter Lerner)说，以军没有攻击学校，但是学校附近的战斗很猛烈。他说，有若干枚瞄准以色列的火箭弹没有打中目标，大约在同一时间落到了这个区域。“那里确实发生了战斗，但我们必须判断爆炸是否和我们有关，”勒纳说。“我们有确凿的信息，能证实在2点到4点15分之间，有几枚从加沙境内发射的炮弹落在了拜特哈嫩。”
Colonel Lerner said the military had “appealed” to the United Nations and the International Committee of the Red Cross on Monday to evacuate the school because of what he called “terrorist activities there and because of our activities in the area.” He said word came Thursday afternoon that the aid organizations would move people. Then, 15 minutes later, the school was hit.
勒纳中校说，以色列军方已经在周一“呼吁”联合国和国际红十字会(International Committee of the Red Cross)疏散学校人员，他说这是因为“那里有恐怖活动，我们在那片区域也有活动”。他说，周四下午传来了消息，说救援组织会把人疏散走，紧接着就在15分钟之后，学校被炸了。
“They, unfortunately, did not comply three days ago,” Colonel Lerner said. “We don’t strike schools. We don’t strike U.N. facilities. We do not target the United Nations.”
勒纳说，“不幸的是，他们没有在三天前答应撤退。我们不会攻击学校。我们不会攻击联合国的机构。我们不会把联合国当成目标。”
The Beit Hanoun school was the third one serving as a shelter to be hit during the current conflict. The United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which essentially acts as a government for Palestinian refugees in the Middle East, said that more than 140,000 residents of Gaza were now staying in 83 schools where it has set up shelters. Robert Turner, the director of Gaza operations for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, commonly known by its initials U.N.R.W.A., said he had few details about the strike in Beit Hanoun, because when he went to investigate, “we got a hostile reception.”
拜特哈嫩镇的那所学校，是冲突中第三所遭到攻击的用于避难的学校。联合国难民救济和工程处实际上为中东的巴勒斯坦难民扮演了政府的角色。救济工程处表示，加沙地带有超过14万居民目前待在83所学校中，他们在这些学校设立了避难所。救济工程处在加沙的运营负责人罗伯特·特纳(Robert Turner)表示，他不了解拜特哈嫩遇袭事件的细节，因为前去调查时，“我们很不受欢迎。”
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Turner said, a school sheltering 2,000 people in Deir el Balah, in central Gaza, was struck in what was believed to be a drone attack. On Tuesday, a boy was injured by an artillery shell at a school in the Mughazi refugee camp. When United Nations workers went in to investigate — after being told by the Israeli authorities that they had a two-hour window in which it would be safe to operate — there was more shelling, Mr. Turner said, though no one was wounded.
特纳表示，周三上午，加沙地带中部代尔巴拉赫(Deir el Balah)一所容纳2000名难民的学校遭到攻击，据信是无人机袭击。周二，穆格齐(Mughazi)难民营的一所学校被炮弹击中，致使一名男孩受伤。以色列当局通知联合国工作人员，他们有两个小时的安全行动时间，于是工作人员进入难民营开展调查，但在此期间，又发生了更多炮击，不过没人受伤。
“We’re concerned that these messages are either not being passed, or if they are being passed they are not being implemented as we would like,” he said of coordination between the Israelis charged with civilian protection and the military. “We’re not questioning the good will and hard work of the people” working with the United Nations, he added, “but we’re concerned about coordination and translation into action on the ground.”
在评价负责保护平民的以色列人与军方之间的协调工作时，特纳表示，“我们担心，这些信息没有传达到，或者说即便信息传达到了，也没有像我们预期的那样执行。”他还表示，“我们并不是质疑与联合国合作的人员所表现出的善意和付出的辛劳。但是我们担心协调工作，也担心如何将传达的信息转化为实际行动。”
Witnesses to the Beit Hanoun school attack said that they had gathered in the courtyard and were waiting to be evacuated to a safer area when explosives rained down.
拜特哈嫩学校遭袭事件的目击者表示，爆炸物落下时，他们正聚集在院子里，准备疏散到更安全的区域。
Eight of the dead and about 80 wounded were brought to the Kamal Odwan Hospital, the nearest facility, where rooms and hallways were packed with wounded patients and their relatives.
八名死者及大约80名伤者被送到了最近的医院卡玛尔艾德万医院(Kamal Odwan Hospital)，病房和走廊里都挤满了受伤的患者和他们的亲属。
Many said they had fled with their families from homes in the areas days before because of Israeli shelling and that the situation in the school had been getting worse as food and water became scarce.
很多人表示，由于遭到以色列的炮击，他们几天前与家人从家中逃离。他们还说，食物和水越来越少，学校的情况越来越糟。
They also said that on Thursday they had been instructed to gather in the school’s courtyard because the Red Cross was sending buses to take them to another school in a relatively safer part of Gaza.
他们还表示，周四，他们按照指示聚集在学校的院子内，因为红十字会要派车把他们送到加沙地带位置相对安全的另一所学校。
It was early afternoon, after they had gathered, that the strikes came.
他们聚集到院子里后，也就是午后不久，袭击便开始了。
“We went to the school to be safe and then they hit the school,” said Mohammed Shinbary, kneeling on the hospital floor and cradling his wounded daughter, Mahasin, 7.
穆罕默德·欣巴里(Mohammed Shinbary)抱着受伤的七岁女儿马哈欣(Mahasin)跪在医院的地板上说，“我们为了安全来到学校，然后他们就攻击了学校。”
Everyone interviewed said that there had been no fighting in the immediate vicinity although they had heard shelling. All said there had been no Hamas fighters nearby but that they wanted to be moved elsewhere because they were running low on food and water.
接受采访的所有人都表示，尽管他们听到了炮击声，但四周没有发生战斗。所有受访者都表示，附近没有哈马斯作战人员，但他们希望转移到其他地点，因为食物和水快用完了。
Israeli officials have said schools are among the places where militants store and launch rockets. Twice during this conflict rockets have been discovered at vacant U.N.R.W.A. schools. Some Israelis have complained that agency personnel turned the rockets over to the security services affiliated with Hamas. Mr. Turner acknowledged that they had given the rockets to the Hamas-controlled Interior Ministry, but said there had been no one else to call. The Palestinian Health Ministry said earlier Thursday that more than 40 people had been killed in fighting elsewhere in Gaza on Thursday. The Israeli military said that two rocket barrages were fired from Gaza in the morning and about five were intercepted over the Tel Aviv area by Israel’s Iron Dome antimissile defense system. Some shrapnel fell in Tel Aviv but there were no reports of serious injuries.
以色列官员表示，武装分子储存、发射火箭弹的地点包括学校。在此次冲突里，救济工程处旗下的空置学校里，有两次被发现存放有火箭弹。一些以色列人曾抱怨称，该机构的工作人员将火箭弹移交给了与哈马斯有关的安全部门。特纳承认，他们将火箭弹交给了受哈马斯控制的内政部(Interior Ministry)，但他表示，他们没有其他选择。巴勒斯坦卫生部在周四早些时候表示，周四，加沙其他区域发生的战斗造成40多人死亡。以色列军方表示，加沙地带上午发起了两波火箭弹袭击，以色列的“铁穹”(Iron Dome)反导弹防御系统在特拉维夫拦截了五枚火箭弹。一些弹片落到了特拉维夫，但没有重伤报告。
In a hospital hallway, Amina Nassir stood over a single hospital gurney holding two of her daughters: Fatima, 13, who had lost a chunk of flesh from her leg, and Aya, 12, who had broken her right shoulder and had shrapnel wounds in both legs. A third daughter had also been wounded.
在医院走廊里，阿米娜·纳什尔抱着她的两个女儿：13岁的法蒂玛和12岁的艾雅。法蒂玛腿上的肉被炸飞了一块，艾雅右肩骨折，双腿都被炸伤。纳什尔的第三个女儿也受了伤。