BARCELONA, Spain — The leader of Catalonia, Carles Puigdemont, said Tuesday evening that his region had earned the right to independence from Spain, but he immediately suspended the process to allow for talks with the central government in Madrid.
西班牙巴塞罗那——加泰罗尼亚领导人卡莱斯·普伊格德蒙特(Carles Puigdemont)星期二晚间表示，这个地区获得了从西班牙独立的权利，但他马上暂缓了独立进程，以便能和马德里的中央政府进行对话。
In a long-awaited speech to the regional parliament in Barcelona, Puigdemont said that the Catalan people offered a “mandate” for independence, but he left open the door to negotiations and reiterated a call for mediation.
他在巴塞罗那地区议会发表了这场万众期待的演讲，称加泰罗尼亚人民提供了独立“授权”，但他敞开了谈判的大门，呼吁进行调解。
The speech appeared to constitute a tight balancing act, defying Madrid’s denunciations of the region’s independence referendum as illegal and invalid, while stopping short of offering an immediate and outright declaration of independence. Puigdemont also was trying to placate several factions within his unwieldy alliance of separatist lawmakers, who control a majority of the seats in the Catalan parliament after winning 48 percent of the votes in 2015.
这场演讲似乎是在走钢丝，一边无视马德里谴责该地区独立公投是非法的、无效的说法，另一边又没有立即断然宣布独立。对于其难以控制的分离派议员联盟，普伊格德蒙特试图对其中几个派别进行安抚，该联盟在2015年的选举中赢得48%的选票之后，控制了加泰罗尼亚议会中的多数席位。
The carefully worded speech, however, confused some lawmakers, and as it ended, Puigdemont did not receive any applause from the far-left secessionist lawmakers whose support has been key to keep the independence movement on course.
但是，这个措辞谨慎的发言让一些议员感到莫名其妙，在发言结束时，普伊格德蒙特没有从极左分裂主义议员那里获得任何掌声，他们的支持是推动独立运动的关键。
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain has rejected any dialogue with Catalan separatists unless they abandon plans for secession, and Puigdemont and his allies could in theory be arrested for sedition, and the Catalan Parliament disbanded.
西班牙首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)拒绝与加泰罗尼亚分离主义者进行任何对话，除非他们放弃独立的计划，从理论上说，普伊格德蒙特及其盟友可能因为涉嫌煽动叛乱被逮捕，加泰罗尼亚议会可能遭到解散。
Puigdemont, however, left open the possibility for dialogue, while defending the decision to hold the referendum backing independence.
但是普伊格德蒙特没有关闭对话的可能性，同时又捍卫了举行全民公投支持独立的决定。
“We are here because on Sunday, Oct. 1, Catalonia held a referendum and did so in extreme conditions,” he said. “There were violent police attacks against voters who were just waiting to deposit their ballot paper. More than 800 people were treated by medical services and the world saw it.”
“我们在这里，是因为10月1日星期日加泰罗尼亚举行了公民投票，我们在极端条件下做到了这件事，”他说。“那些正在等待投票的选民遭到了警察的暴力袭击。800多人需要送院救治，全世界都看到了这件事。”
Hard-line separatists had hoped Puigdemont (pronounced POOTCH-da-mon) would follow through on the results of the highly disputed referendum. To pressure Puigdemont into sticking to his promise, the main separatist associations had called for a citizens’ rally near the parliament building to push the Catalan political leadership to stick to the independence pledge.
强硬的分离主义者曾希望普伊格德蒙特坚持完成这个引发高度争议的公投结果。为了施压让普伊格德蒙特恪守承诺，主要的分离主义组织曾呼吁市民聚集在议会大厦附近，敦促加泰罗尼亚的政治领导人兑现独立的承诺。
Lawmakers from Puigdemont’s conservative party, however, were wary about further escalating tensions with Madrid, especially after several prominent companies announced plans to move their headquarters from Catalonia because of legal uncertainties of a secession.
然而，对于与马德里的紧张关系进一步升级，普伊格德蒙特所在的保守党的议员态度很谨慎，尤其是在几家著名企业宣布，由于分裂引发了法律上的不确定性，它们打算将总部从加泰罗尼亚迁走之后。