OTTAWA, Ontario — The heart of the Canadian capital was traumatized and placed in emergency police lockdown on Wednesday after a gunman fatally wounded a soldier guarding the National War Memorial, entered the nearby Parliament building and fired multiple times before he was shot and killed.
加拿大渥太华——周三，一名持枪男子重伤国家战争纪念碑(National War Memorial)的一名警卫、闯入附近的议会大厦并在被击毙前多次开枪。加拿大首都的核心地区遭受重创，警方下令进入紧急封锁状态。
It was the second deadly assault on a uniformed member of Canada’s armed forces in three days. While the motive was unclear, the Ottawa attack heightened fears that Canada, a strong ally of the United States, had been targeted in an organized terrorist plot.
这是加拿大武装部队的制服人员在三天里第二次遭到致命袭击。尽管尚不清楚动机，但渥太华发生的这起袭击，加剧了人们的担忧。他们害怕作为美国强有力盟友的加拿大，已经成为了有组织的恐怖密谋的目标。
The Canadian authorities provided F.B.I. agents with the name of the dead Parliament assailant, identified by law enforcement officials as Canadian-born Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, born in 1982.
加拿大当局向美国联邦调查局(FBI)探员提供了那名已在议会大厦身亡的袭击者的姓名。执法官员确认，死者是1982年生于加拿大的迈克尔·齐哈夫-比博(Michael Zehaf-Bibeau)。
By midafternoon Wednesday, the officials said, a search of F.B.I. databases had not come up with anything about the assailant.
截至周三下午三点左右，官员称，对FBI的数据库进行查询后，未能得到和袭击者有关的任何信息。
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported that Mr. Zehaf-Bibeau had a criminal record in Quebec dating back 10 years on drug-related offenses, and that he had lived in Montreal.
加拿大广播公司(Canadian Broadcasting Corporation)报道，齐哈夫-比博有一项犯罪记录，要回溯到10年前与毒品有关的违法行为。报道还称，他生活在蒙特利尔。
Senior American law enforcement officials said Mr. Zehaf-Bibeau had been a convert to Islam, and that he had changed his birth name, which was originally Michael Joseph Hall. But much about the shooter’s background and possible motivations remained unclear.
美国执法部门的高级官员称，齐哈夫-比博生前皈依了伊斯兰教，还对出生名迈克尔·约瑟夫·霍尔(Michael Joseph Hall)进行了更改。不过，关于这名抢手的很多背景，以及可能的动机，外界尚不得而知。
Police officers rushed to secure the Parliament building and move occupants to safety as they hunted for what Canadian news reports said were possibly two or three assailants.
警察火速前去保护议会大厦，并将楼内人员转移至安全地带，同时搜寻袭击者。加拿大新闻报道声称，可能有两三名同伙。
The police declined to specify how many more gunmen — if any — they might be seeking, but told reporters at a news conference that the situation was “dynamic and unfolding” and suggested they had no forewarning.
警方拒绝详细说明他们可能正在追捕另外多少名持枪歹徒——如果有的话。但警方在新闻发布会上告诉记者，情况“处于变化和发展之中”，并表示他们预先未收到警告。
“It caught us by surprise,” said Gilles Michaud, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police assistant commissioner.
“我们措不及防，”皇家加拿大骑警(Royal Canadian Mounted Police)助理警监吉勒·米肖(Gilles Michaud)说。
Canadian officials said the wounded soldier, identified as Cpl. Nathan Cirillo, 24, a reservist from Hamilton, Ontario, died at a hospital and that the gunman was killed inside the Parliament building.
加拿大官员称，那名受伤的警卫在医院不治身亡，持枪歹徒则在议会大厦内部被击毙。身亡士兵确认为24岁的下士内森·西里洛(Nathan Cirillo)，是来自安大略省哈密尔顿的预备役军人。
Craig Scott, a member of Parliament, credited the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, 58, with shooting the gunman just outside the caucus rooms. In a Twitter posting, Mr. Scott said he and his colleagues “owe their safety, even lives,” to Mr. Vickers.
议员克雷格·斯科特(Craig Scott)将自己能躲过这一劫归功于58岁的下议院警卫官凯文·维克斯(Kevin Vickers)。维克斯在党团会议室外击中了持枪歹徒。斯科特在Twitter上发帖称，他和同事的“安全乃至性命”多亏了维克斯。
The shootings came amid heightened concern among Canadians about terrorist attacks. Two days earlier, a radical jihadist ran over two soldiers at a suburban Montreal strip mall, killing one of them.
枪击事件发生之际，正值加拿大对恐怖袭击的担忧有所加剧。此前两天，在蒙特利尔郊区的一处购物中心，一名激进的圣战分子驾车碾过两名士兵，导致其中一人死亡。
Prime Minister Stephen Harper, an outspoken critic of the Islamic State movement and other militant groups, has been considering the introduction of new antiterrorism legislation and has actively supported the American-led military effort to degrade the Islamic State’s expansion in Syria and Iraq.
加拿大总理斯蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)公开谴责伊斯兰国(Islamic State)运动及其他一些激进团体，一直在考虑引入新的反恐立法，而且积极支持美国领导的旨在阻止伊斯兰国在叙利亚和伊拉克扩张的军事行动。
President Obama spoke with Mr. Harper by telephone to offer condolences and vowed to provide any assistance that Canada may need. Speaking later with reporters, Mr. Obama recalled visiting the Parliament building that was the scene of Wednesday’s mayhem.
奥巴马总统致电哈珀表达了慰问，并发誓愿意为加拿大提供一切必要援助。晚些时候与记者交谈时，奥巴马回忆了自己拜访加拿大议会大厦的情景。周三的枪击案就发生在这里。
“We’re all shaken by it,” Mr. Obama said, “but we’re going to do everything we can to make sure that we’re standing side-by-side with Canada during this difficult time.”
“我们都很震惊，”奥巴马说，“但我们将竭尽所能，保证与加拿大共渡难关。”
The Ottawa Hospital said in a statement that it was treating three people for wounds related to the shooting, and that they were later released. .
渥太华医院(The Ottawa Hospital)发表声明称，有三人因为与此次枪击案有关的伤势在该院接受过治疗，目前已经出院。
The shooting upended a busy day in the capital and paralyzed much of the city. A hockey game here between the Toronto Maple Leafs and Ottawa Senators was postponed, the National Hockey League announced.
枪击案扰乱了渥太华繁忙的日程，使得城里大片地区陷入瘫痪。北美冰球联盟(National Hockey League)宣布，原定在这里举行的多伦多枫叶队(Toronto Maple Leafs)和渥太华参议员队(Ottawa Senators)的一场冰球比赛也将推迟。
The United States Embassy in Ottawa reported that it was in lockdown mode, in an advisory to American citizens posted on its website.
驻渥太华的美国大使馆在网站上公告美国公民，该机构目前处于闭馆状态。
The police told reporters that they began getting multiple 911 calls about shootings in the Parliament area at 9:52 a.m., just as the leaders of the three major parties in Parliament were holding their weekly meetings, suggesting the possibility that the attack had been deliberately timed for when many lawmakers would have been working. Many of the lawmakers were rushed into secure rooms in the basement by guards.
警方告诉记者，上午9点52分，他们接到多个报警电话，称议会大厦附近发生了枪击案。当时，议会的三个主要党派正在召开每周例会。这表明，袭击可能被故意安排在了众多议员的工作时间。许多议员立即被警卫带到了位于地下的安全屋中。
Chrystia Freeland, a member of Parliament from Toronto, speaking by cellphone from a windowless room in the basement, said she had been just walking into a meeting she heard shots.
来自多伦多的下院议员克里斯提亚·弗里兰(Chrystia Freeland)在地下一个没有窗户的房间里接受电话采访时表示，听到枪响时，她正走进会议室准备参加会议。
“They hustled me and another woman into this room and told us to hide,” she said. “I’m surrounded by more than a dozen House of Commons security guards.”
“他们急忙把我和另一名女性推到这个房间，让我们藏起来，”她说。“我周围有十多名下议院警卫。”
Mr. Harper had been inside Parliament at the time but several witnesses saw him taken away in a motorcade. The entire downtown area was placed on lockdown as police reinforcements arrived, leaving thousands of workers trapped in office towers. The lockdown was partially eased hours later for the downtown area.
当时，哈珀总理也在议会大厦里，但几名目击者看见他被车队接走。警方增援部队到来后，整个市中心立即被封锁，让数千名工作人员被困在了办公楼里。数小时后，市中心的封锁才被部分解除。
There had been early reports of a shooting in a shopping mall near Parliament but the Ottawa police said those reports were incorrect.
此前曾有报道称，议会大厦附近的一家商场发生了枪击，但渥太华警方表示，这些报道并不准确。