When a boat carrying Albert Camus sailed into New York Harbor in March 1946, he was hailed as a moral emissary from war-ravaged Europe and the glamorous embodiment of a newfangled philosophy known as Existentialism.
1946年3月，阿尔贝·加缪（Albert Camus, 1913—1960，法国声名卓著的小说家、散文家和剧作家，存在主义文学大师，“荒诞哲学”的代表人物，强调痛苦与幸福、荒诞和理性、生与死、堕落和拯救、阳光和阴影等二元对立的主题。——译注）乘船驰入纽约港。加缪，这个来自饱受战火蹂躏的欧洲的道德使者，存在主义这一新奇哲学的魅力化身，受到了热烈的欢迎。
The American publication of his novel “The Stranger” was celebrated on the roof of the Hotel Astor, and Vogue published a portrait by Cecil Beaton, showing Camus smiling slyly from noirish shadows.
在阿斯特酒店的顶楼平台，人们为他的小说《局外人》(The Stranger)在美国出版举行了庆典。塞西尔·比顿（Cecil Beaton，1904－1980，著名摄影师、服装设计师，曾两次获得奥斯卡最佳服装设计奖，被誉为二十世纪最伟大的英国摄影家之一。——译注）为他拍摄了肖像照，在美国时尚杂志《VOGUE》刊出。照片背景布光是典型的黑色电影风格，加缪在晦暗的阴影之下露出狡黠的笑容。
But a year later, Camus recalled his three months amid the city’s “swarming lights” and frantic streets with a mixture of awe and bafflement.
一年之后，加缪谈起他在纽约度过的三个月，对这个城市“纷扰的灯火和忙碌的街道”充满了敬畏与困惑。
“I have my ideas about other cities but about New York only these powerful and fleeting emotions,” he wrote in 1947. “I still know nothing about New York, whether one moves among madmen here or among the most reasonable people in the world.”
“我对其他城市都会有某种程度的了解。然而，纽约给我留下的，却只是一种无法捕捉的强烈感觉。”他在1947年这样写道，“我对纽约始终无法了解通透，弄不清楚我周围形形色色的人究竟都是疯子，还是世界上最有理性的人。”
Camus, who never returned to the United States, may not have really understood New York. But over the next month, New Yorkers will have a chance to better understand him, thanks to “Camus: A Stranger in the City,” a monthlong festival of performances, readings, film screenings and other events celebrating the 70th anniversary of his visit.
加缪后来再也没有机会回到美国。或许，他可能没有真正了解纽约。但在接下来的一个月里，纽约人却将有机会更好地了解加缪。“加缪：纽约的局外人”艺术节，是为了庆祝他到访纽约70周年而举办的，包括表演、读书、电影放映等活动，为期一个月。
The festival will include plenty of straight-faced homage mixed with modern-day star power. On Monday, the actor Viggo Mortensen will read Camus’s landmark speech “The Human Crisis” at the Miller Theater at Columbia University, 70 years to the day after Camus delivered it in the same theater. And on April 19, the singer-songwriter Patti Smith will discuss Camus’s influence on her at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
这个艺术节有一系列正式的纪念活动，同时也会充分展示时尚明星的魅力。周一，维戈·莫特森（Viggo Mortensen，演员、诗人、画家、摄影家，出生于纽约。《魔戒》中阿拉贡的扮演者。——译注）将在哥伦比亚大学米勒剧院朗诵加缪的演说《人类的危机》(The Human Crisis)。70年前的这一天，加缪就是在这里发表了这篇划时代的演讲。4月19日，创作歌手帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)将在纽约城市大学研究生中心讲述加缪对她一生的影响。
Stephen Petrus, a historian and curator who organized the festival in conjunction with the Camus estate, described the mission of the festival as “stimulating conversation by looking at his ideas about freedom, responsibility and civic engagement.”
史学家和策展人史蒂芬·帕特鲁斯(Stephen Petrus)与加缪遗产委员会共同组办了这次活动。他说，这个艺术节的目标是“通过审视加缪在自由、责任与公民参与问题上的观念来激励社会对话。”
Other participants are taking a distinctly sideways approach to that mission, like the jazz pianist, singer and composer Ben Sidran, who will kick things off at Barbès in Brooklyn on Saturday with a program that includes selections from his album “Blue Camus” as well as material written for the festival, like a song inspired by Camus’s 1942 essay “The Myth of Sisyphus.”
为了达到这一目标，其他的参与者则另辟蹊径。比如，爵士乐钢琴家、歌手和作曲家本·西德兰(Ben Sidran)，将会于周六在布鲁克林的Barbès酒吧表演厅为艺术节开幕，表演的节目包括他的专辑《蓝色加缪》(Blue Camus)里的歌曲，以及一些特意为艺术节创作的歌曲，其中一首歌的灵感来自加缪1942年的哲学论文“西西弗斯神话”(The Myth of Sisyphus)。
“The idea of being open to what comes next — of triumphing over absurdity and chaos by being yourself in the moment — has been a jazz precept for a long time,” Mr. Sidran said, explaining the logic of spending a Saturday night swinging to the idea of a Greek hero destined to roll the same rock up a hill day after day.
西德兰先生解释说，西西弗斯命中注定，要周而复始地把同一块巨石推上山顶。在一个周末的晚上，赞颂这样一位古希腊的悲剧英雄，其实正在情理之中。“对未来保持开放的心态，以当下的自我来战胜荒诞与混乱，这其实一直是爵士乐长期以来的主题。”
“Jazz and Existentialism have a lot of intersections that come up over and over,” he said.
他接着说：“你会看到爵士乐与存在主义有许多共通之处。”
When Camus landed in America, he was known mainly as the courageous former editor of the French Resistance newspaper Combat and the proponent of a new way of thinking. A month earlier, Hannah Arendt had discussed him and Jean-Paul Sartre in her article “What Is This Philosophy They Call ‘Existentialism’?” The New York Herald-Tribune proclaimed him the “boldest writer in France today.” The New Yorker’s Talk of the Town section, meanwhile, found him seeming “unduly cheerful” for a philosopher of the absurd, a notion Camus gently rejected.
加缪抵达美国之时，出现在人们面前的是一个勇敢无畏的法国抵抗运动报纸《战斗报》(Combat)的前主编，同时也是一个崭新的思维方式的倡导者。他访美前一个月，汉娜·阿伦特（Hannah Arendt，1906年10月14日－1975年12月4日，美籍犹太裔，原籍德国，美国政治理论家，以其关于极权主义的研究著称。——译注）著文讨论了他和让-保罗·萨特（Jean-Paul Sartre，1905年6月21日－1980年4月15日，著名法国哲学家、作家、剧作家、小说家、政治活动家，存在主义哲学大师及二战后存在主义思潮的领军人物，被誉为二十世纪最重要的哲学家之一。——译注），题目是：“什么是所谓的存在主义哲学？”。《纽约先驱论坛报》宣称他为“当今法国最为大胆的作家”。而同时，《纽约客》的“街谈巷议”版则认为，作为一个研究“荒诞”的哲学家，他似乎有些“过于快活”了。加缪很绅士地否认了这种说法。
“Just because you have pessimistic thoughts you don’t have to act pessimistic,” he explained. “One has to pass the time somehow. Look at Don Juan.”
“仅仅因为你在思考一些令人消极的事情，并不意味着你的一举一动就必须很悲观。”他解释道，“人总得生活。你看看唐璜（Don Juan，西班牙家传户晓的一名传说人物，以英俊潇洒及风流著称，一生中周旋无数贵族妇女之间。——译注）。”
The New Yorker writer Adam Gopnik, who will discuss Camus at the New York Public Library on April 14 with the historian Robert Zaretsky, described Camus’s visit as partly a “comedy of cross-cultural misunderstanding.”
4月14号，《纽约客》作家亚当·高普尼克(Adam Gopnik)将会在纽约公共图书馆与历史学家罗伯特·泽拉斯基(Robert Zaretsky)一起讨论加缪。高普尼克称加缪的那次访问从某方面来说可以说是一个“不同文化之间的误解所造成的喜剧”。
Americans, Mr. Gopnik said, were bowled over by Camus’s glamour, mistakenly taking that Algerian-born, working-class outsider for the epitome of urbane Frenchness. (“You know, I can get a film contract whenever I want,” he boasted in a letter to his publisher.)
高普尼克先生说，当时美国人为加缪的魅力所折服，误把这个来自阿尔及利亚工薪阶层的异乡人当作法国上层阶层的缩影。（加缪曾在一封给他的出版商的信中说：“你知道吗，如果我想的话，我随时可以签下一个电影合同。”）
Meanwhile, Camus, who spoke almost no English, had some off-kilter perceptions of his own, like a cryptic reference to New York as the “city of the three rivers.”
与此同时，几乎不会说英语的加缪，也有一些自己不着调的想法，比如他把纽约称为“三条河之间的城市”，谁也不知道他这个说法是怎么来的。
“I’ve always loved that,” Mr. Gopnik said. “It’s not a description that makes any sense to New Yorkers. But it reflects something essential about New York as a place made up of many threads.”
“但我一直很喜欢这个说法，”高普尼克先生说，“对纽约人来说，这个描述有些莫名其妙。但它反映了一种纽约的基本精神。纽约这个地方正是由千丝万缕的各种文化交织而成。”
The high point of Camus’s trip was the speech at Columbia, where as many as 1,500 people — well beyond the capacity of the McMillin Academic Theater, as the venue was then known — gathered to hear him warn about the modern “cult of efficiency and of abstraction” that led to indifference in the face of torture and murder.
加缪美国之行的最高潮是在哥伦比亚大学的演讲。当时，多达1500人聚集在当时名为麦克米林学术剧院里听他的讲座，人数爆满，远远超出了礼堂的容量。在讲座中，加缪警告人们，现代人对“效率与抽象的崇拜”导致了人们对酷刑和谋杀的漠视。
“The United States had been cut off from France during the war,” said the Yale French scholar Alice Kaplan. She has prepared a new translation of the speech for Mr. Mortensen to read, based on a long-lost French typescript she recently found in the Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library at Yale.
耶鲁大学法国学者爱丽丝·卡普兰(Alice Kaplan)最近在耶鲁大学拜内克珍本与手稿图书馆(einecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library)找到了遗失已久的加缪演讲法语记录。依此为本，她重新翻译了这份讲稿，准备供莫特森先生朗读。“美国与法国之间的联系在二战期间被切断了。”
Camus, “in a much more direct way than Sartre” — who had come to America the year before as a correspondent for Combat — “brought news of a new intellectual climate that came to be called Existentialism,” she said.
卡普兰女士说，加缪的来访“以比萨特更为直接的方式给美国人带来了存在主义这一崭新的学术思潮。”萨特曾在加缪访美之前一年作为《战斗报》的通讯记者来过美国。
“Camus hated the label,” Ms. Kaplan added. “But there was little he could do about it.”
“加缪很不愿意被人称为存在主义者。”卡普兰接着说道，“但是对人们给他加上的这个标签，他却毫无办法。”
Even the serious occasion at Columbia was touched by an element of comedy, when it was announced that the collection taken up for helping French war orphans had been stolen during the talk.
即使哥伦比亚大学演讲会这个严肃的场合，也发生了一个小小的喜剧插曲。在加缪演讲之时，有人偷走了为帮助法国二战孤儿而募集的捐款。
“When Camus learned what had happened, he was ecstatic,” A. J. Liebling of The New Yorker wrote in an obituary after Camus’s death at 46, in 1960, in a car accident. The brush with B-movie larceny — followed by a second collection that raised even more money — “was the America of his dreams.”
1960年，在加缪46岁死于车祸之后，《纽约客》的A·J·李伯苓(A. J. Liebling)在悼文中记述了这件事情。“加缪得知这个消息以后兴奋极了。”他写道。这个像B级盗窃片一样的情节，加上后来第二次募捐收到了更多捐款的事实，“正是他梦想中的美国。”
During his trip, Camus made forays to Philadelphia, Montreal and Boston, speaking on college campuses. But mostly he stayed in New York, where he was staggered by the material abundance, in stark contrast to the deprivations of postwar France.
这次访问期间，加缪在费城、蒙特利尔和波士顿都做了短暂停留，在各个大学校园里讲话。但是，基本上他都一直呆在纽约。这里物质的丰富与战后法国物资的匮乏形成了鲜明对比，给他带来了很大震动。
In Times Square, he was amazed by a 50-foot Camel billboard showing a cigarette-puffing G.I. (“Real smoke,” he marveled in his journal.) He was less impressed by American neckties: “You have to see it to believe it. So much bad taste hardly seems imaginable.”
在时代广场，他见到一个50英尺高的骆驼牌香烟广告牌，上面是一个大兵在一口一口地抽烟，这让他十分惊讶。（在他的札记中，他惊叹道：“那里真的有烟在一直冒出来。”）他对美国人的领结则大不以为然：“如此差劲的品味让人难以想象。如果不是亲眼看到，你肯定不会相信。”
Camus made the rounds of literary parties, and visited Chinatown, Coney Island, Harlem. He was fascinated by the down-and-out Bowery — “A European wants to say: ‘Finally, reality’” — with its rows of pristine bridal shop windows alongside squalid dives like Sammy’s Bowery Follies.
加缪到各个文学集会都打了个转，而且还参观了唐人街、康尼岛和哈莱姆区。没落的包厘街让他着迷——成排的婚纱店明亮洁净的窗户旁，是一些又脏又破的小酒馆，比如山姆包厘俱乐部(Sammy’s Bowery Follies)。
He also took an odd interest in American funeral parlors, with their zippy message, as he put it, of “You die, we do the rest!,” and even bought copies of trade magazines for undertakers, including one called Sunnyside.
加缪还对美国殡仪馆产生了奇怪的兴趣。他喜欢他们欢快活泼的促销口号，按他的说法就是：“你只管死就好了，把其余的事交给我们！”他甚至买了几份葬礼承办人的行业杂志，其中一份杂志名叫《向阳面》(Sunnyside)。
But Mr. Zaretsky, the author of “A Life Worth Living: Albert Camus and the Quest for Meaning,” cautions against seeing the interest in the American way of death as representing much more than an appreciation for the absurd, with a lowercase “a.”
但是，泽拉斯基先生在“有价值的一生：阿尔贝·加缪及其对意义的追求”一文中对世人提出警示，加缪对美国的死亡方式的兴趣仅仅是他对荒诞之事的一种欣赏，我们要注意不要过多解读这件事情。
“Portraying Camus as someone constantly preoccupied by heavy themes does his memory a great disservice,” Mr. Zaretsky said. “In New York, Camus mostly did what he would do in Paris: drink, dance and chat up women.”
“把加缪描绘成一个始终在思考沉重主题的人，这并非对他一生的忠实描述。”泽拉斯基先生说，“加缪在纽约和他在巴黎会做的事情没有什么大的不同：通常都是喝酒，跳舞，和女人聊天。”
Some festival events will revisit old Camus haunts, or their rough geographical approximations. At the Bowery Poetry Club on Sunday, the Belgian actor Ronald Guttman will do a reading of a one-man play based on Camus’s novel “The Fall,” set in the red-light district of Amsterdam. On April 10, at the same location, Mr. Petrus and the folk singer Eric Andersen will read selections from Camus’s writings on New York. (Mr. Andersen will also play songs from his album “Shadow and Light of Albert Camus” at National Sawdust in Brooklyn on April 16.)
这个艺术节的一些活动将带你重温加缪当年常去的地方和周围的街区。这个周日，比利时演员罗纳德·古特曼(Ronald Guttman)将在波威里诗社(Bowery Poetry Club)表演一个独角戏，它由加缪以阿姆斯特丹红灯区为背景的小说《堕落》(The Fall)改编而来。4月10日，在同一地点，帕特鲁斯先生和民谣歌手埃里克·安德森(Eric Andersen)将会朗读加缪关于纽约的一些作品选段。4月16日，安德森先生还将在布鲁克林国家木屑场(National Sawdust)演唱他的专辑《阿尔贝·加缪的阳光与阴影》里的一些歌曲。
But for the most part, the New York that Camus left in June 1946 — preceded by a 176-pound crate of coffee, baby food, powdered eggs, soap and other necessities — has vanished, washed away by a tide of money that makes the abundance that so staggered him pale in comparison.
1946年6月，加缪离开纽约，带走了一个重达176磅的大箱子，里面装满了咖啡、婴儿食品、鸡蛋粉、肥皂和其他必需品。那个年代的纽约已经永远逝去，在财富之潮的冲刷下不留痕迹。当年那曾经让加缪震惊不已的繁华，比之今天的纽约相形见绌，黯然失色。
“Camus wouldn’t recognize Manhattan in 2016,” Mr. Petrus said. “It’s a completely different city.”
“加缪绝对认不出2016年的曼哈顿，”泽拉斯基先生说，“今天的纽约已经截然不同。”
Here is a sampling of events related to “Camus: A Stranger in the City,” running from Saturday through April 19. A full schedule is at frenchculture.org/books/festivals/camus-stranger-city.
下面是“加缪：纽约的局外人”艺术节的一些主要活动。这个艺术节将在4月19日结束。全部节目安排请看：frenchculture.org/books/festivals/camus-stranger-city。
Jazz Camus Saturday at 8 p.m. at Barbès, 376 Ninth Street, Brooklyn; barbesbrooklyn.com; $10 at the door. The jazz pianist, composer and singer Ben Sidran performs new works inspired by Camus and selections from his album “Blue Camus.”
爵士加缪 周六晚8点，Barbès，第九街，376号，布鲁克林。barbesbrooklyn.com。门票$10。爵士乐钢琴家、歌手和作曲家本·西德兰将会表演受加缪作品启发而作的新曲，以及他的专辑《蓝色加缪》中的一些选曲。
Theatrical Camus Sunday at 3:30 p.m., Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, Manhattan; bowerypoetry.com; free. Ronald Guttman will perform a reading of a one-man play based on Camus’s novel “The Fall.”
戏剧加缪 周日下午3:30，波威里诗社，包厘街308号，曼哈顿。bowerypoetry.com。免费。罗纳德·古特曼将表演加缪小说《堕落》改编的独角剧。
Camus and ‘The Human Crisis’ Monday at 7 p.m., Miller Theater, Columbia University, 2960 Broadway, at 116th Street, Manhattan; maisonfrancaise.org; Free, reservations required. Viggo Mortensen reads Camus’s 1946 speech “The Human Crisis,” followed by a discussion.
加缪与《人类的危机》 周一晚7点，哥伦比亚大学米勒剧院，百老汇大街2960号，一百一十六街街口，曼哈顿。maisonfrancaise.org。免费，需预订。维戈·莫特森将会朗读加缪于1946年做的演说《人类的危机》，之后有研讨会。
Folkie Camus April 16 at 9:30 p.m., National Sawdust, 80 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn; nationalsawdust.org; $25. The singer Eric Andersen performs songs from his album “Shadow and Light of Albert Camus.”
民谣加缪 4月16日晚9点30分，国家木屑场，第六街北80号，布鲁克林。nationalsawdust.org。$25。民谣歌手艾力克安德森先生将演唱他的《阿尔贝·加缪的阳光与阴影》专辑里的一些歌曲。
Patti Smith on Camus April 19 at 6:30 p.m., CUNY Graduate Center, 365 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan; gc.cuny.edu/Public-Programming; free. This singer-songwriter discusses Camus’s influence on her with the novelist Kevin Baker.
帕蒂史密斯谈加缪 4月19日晚6点30分，纽约城市大学研究生中心，第五大道365号，曼哈顿。gc.cuny.edu/Public-Programming。免费。创作歌手帕蒂·史密斯将与小说家凯文·贝克(Kevin Baker)一起，畅谈加缪对她一生的影响。