CANAKKALE, Turkey — The trenches are still there, carved in the green hills of the slim Gallipoli Peninsula just across the Dardanelles, the waterway that connects the Aegean and Marmara Seas on the way to Istanbul from the port city of Canakkale. Gravestones adorn the beachheads and lands farther inland, marking the lives of the young men — Britons, Frenchmen, Australians, New Zealanders and their enemies, the Ottoman Turks — who died there, almost a century ago.
土耳其恰纳卡莱——旧日的战壕犹在，切割着狭长的加里波利半岛(Gallipoli)上碧绿的山坡。半岛和港口城市恰纳卡莱(Canakkale)隔达达尼尔海峡(Dardanelles)相望。海峡连接着爱琴海和马尔马拉海，一直通向伊斯坦布尔。成片的墓碑，从近海的滩头向内陆延伸，纪念着近一个世纪前在这里死去的年轻人们。他们当中有英国人、法国人、澳大利亚人、新西兰人，也有其敌对阵营中的奥斯曼土耳其人。
Nowadays, it is a well-preserved national park, with rolling fields of olive trees and patches of tomatoes, watermelons and sunflowers lending a rural ambience to the solemn places of the dead. It is hallowed ground for battlefield tourists, mostly Turks and Australians, who are coming in ever greater numbers, taken by ferry across the straits, to pay homage to their nations’ creation stories.
今天，这里已成为受到良好保护的国家公园，橄榄树园比比皆是，其间杂陈着种有番茄、西瓜和向日葵的田地，为死者的安息之地献上乡间特有的宁静。对前来瞻拜昔日战场的访者而言，这里是片神圣之地。他们大多来自土耳其或澳大利亚，前来缅怀奠定了国家基业的先烈们。
Almost a hundred years ago, it was the place where World War I was supposed to turn in the Allies’ favor, but instead it became one of the great slaughters of the Great War.
近百年前，在这里，一战本将朝着有利于协约国的方向进展，结果此地却成为那次世界大战最血腥的战场之一。
In March 1915, the Western Allies, locked in stagnant trench warfare in Europe, seized on an ambitious strategy orchestrated by Winston Churchill, then Britain’s first lord of the admiralty, to open a second front here. In securing control of the Dardanelles and conquering Constantinople, now Istanbul, the Allies hoped to knock the Turks, who had recently entered the conflict on the side of the Germans, from the war. It began with a naval bombardment of the Turkish forts lining the shores of the Dardanelles, and when that failed, British commanders ordered a land invasion. At the time, it was the largest amphibious landing in the history of warfare.
1915年三月，僵持在欧洲战壕苦战中的西方协约国，决定采取时任英国第一海军大臣的温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)策划的一步猛棋，即开发一道新战线，以控制达达尼尔海峡，并进一步占领君士坦丁堡（今伊斯坦布尔），从而让新近加入战争的德国盟友土耳其退出战争。计划以炮轰土耳其沿达达尼尔海峡建起的军事堡垒展开，此举受挫后，英方指挥官命令展开登陆进攻。在当时，这是战争史上最大规模的两栖登陆行动。
After nine months of grueling trench warfare, and after suffering tens of thousands of casualties while gaining little ground, the Allies evacuated. More than 40,000 British military personnel were killed, along with nearly 8,000 Australians and more than 60,000 Turks.
九个月的惨烈战壕战下来，协约国折兵十数万，却没有太多斩获，只得撤兵。至此，英军战死四万，澳军八千，土耳其军死亡六万。
Nearly a century later, the legacy of Gallipoli transcends its military aspects. While the campaign is still remembered by the British and the French, they have greater battles to mark in their histories. For the Turks and the Australians, though, the Gallipoli campaign has taken on an outsize importance as the bloody event that became the foundation of a modern national identity.
近一个世纪过去了，加里波利之战在历史中的角色，超过了军事范畴的普通意义。对于英法而言，尽管它在历史上留下了印记，两国却不乏更多、更重要的大战役。但是，在土耳其和澳大利亚人心中，加里波利这场恶战的重要性被放大了，成为定义其当代国家身份的基石。
The campaign also proved crucial in the careers of two of the 20th century’s greatest statesmen: Churchill, who was demoted for his role in the military disaster, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, then a young Turkish officer, whose battlefield success at Gallipoli propelled him to fame, which he built on to become the founder of the modern Turkish republic.
除此以外，这场战争也对20世纪的两位政治家影响深远。一位是丘吉尔，因此次战略实施失败而被贬职；另一位是穆斯塔法·凯末尔·阿塔蒂尔克(Mustafa Kemal Ataturk)，彼时只是一名年轻军官，因在加里波利作战有方而开始声名鹊起，最终成为了“土耳其共和国之父”。
Also taking his place in history was a young Australian newspaperman named Keith Arthur Murdoch, whose role in the Gallipoli story presaged, many decades later, the global rise of another Murdoch newsman, his son, Rupert.
另外还有一人由此出现在历史的镜头中，他就是基思·阿瑟·默多克(Keith Arthur Murdoch)。他在采访报道加里波利之战的过程所起到的重大作用，也似乎预示了几十年后另一个姓默多克的全球级新闻大亨的出现，而那正是基斯·默多克的儿子，鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)。
In September 1915, with the slaughter unfolding on Gallipoli but news limited in Australia because of military censorship, Keith Murdoch visited the peninsula on his way to London to establish a news bureau to cover the fighting in Europe. He arrived with a letter from the Australian prime minister authorizing him to look into the postal service for the soldiers.
1915年9月，加里波利之战仍在血腥上演，而军方的严格新闻审查使战况新闻无法到达澳大利亚本土。于是，基思·默多克在赴伦敦开设新的记者站以更好地报道欧战的路上，特意经停这个半岛。他随身带了一封澳大利亚总理的书信，特派他调查战士们的邮政服务待遇。
The letter, Rupert Murdoch said in an interview, was “a bit of a cover, I guess.” His real aim was to see for himself the conditions of the campaign. What he found appalled him. Believing that Australians were needlessly being sent to slaughter by incompetent British officers, he agreed to secretly take to London a letter written by a war correspondent stationed at Gallipoli that outlined the conditions on the ground.
鲁伯特·默多克在一次采访中说，这封信“我看多少是个幌子”。他的真实目的是亲眼看看那里的战况。触目惊心的残酷真相，让他相信英国将领指挥无力，澳大利亚的战士们在奔赴前线白白送死。他于是同意将一位驻加里波利的战地记者记录战况实情的密信带到伦敦。
When the commanding general at Gallipoli, Sir Ian Hamilton, learned of Keith Murdoch’s plan to evade the censorship rules, he had him detained at a port in France and the letter was destroyed. When he reached London, he took a small office at The Times of London and began writing his own letter.
当作战总指挥、英国陆军上将伊恩·汉密尔顿爵士(Sir Ian Hamilton)发现基思·默多克这个违反了军内新闻审查条规的计划后，便将他扣留在法国的一个港口，并将信件销毁。当默多克辗转到达了伦敦，他在伦敦《泰晤士报》(The Times)的一间小办公室里，开始自己撰写关于加里波利的书信。
Rupert Murdoch, recalling the story as it was told to him by his father, said, “As he was writing his letter, the editor of The Times looked in and said, ‘What are you doing, young man?’ ”
鲁伯特·默多克回忆父亲给他讲述的这段故事，说，“他写这封信的时候，《泰晤士报》的总编在门口探头问道，‘小伙子，你在写什么？’”
Keith Murdoch told him. The editor read it and, according to Rupert Murdoch, said, “I’ve got to show this to the chief.” By that, he meant Lord Northcliffe, the owner of The Times, who read the letter and passed it on to Prime Minister H.H. Asquith. The 8,000-word letter, detailing what Keith Murdoch called “one of the most terrible chapters in our history,” was published as a British state paper, and it figured into the decision to fire General Hamilton and evacuate the peninsula.
基思·默多克如实地回答了他。鲁伯特·默多克说，总编读了信说，“这个我可要拿给老大看看。”这个老大指的便是报纸的所有人北岩勋爵(Lord Northcliffe)。北岩勋爵读了信，将其转给当时的英国首相H·H·阿斯奎斯(H. H. Asquith)。这封8000字的信，详细描述了基思·默多克所说的“我们历史中最可怕的一章”，并作为英国政府文件发表，在英国做出解职汉密尔顿将军、撤离半岛的决定中起到重要作用。
“My father did figure into that in a big way, and he was very proud of it,” Rupert Murdoch said.
鲁伯特·默多克评论说，“我父亲确实在这个事件上起到了关键作用，他也很是引以为荣。”
Keith Murdoch later came under sharp criticism in Britain for breaking the censorship rules, and many in the British establishment, including Churchill, never forgave him, Rupert Murdoch said. “He had a perfectly clear conscience,” he said. In recent times, that story was cited by Julian Assange, an Australian and the founder of WikiLeaks, in justifying his own extraordinary efforts to bypass government secrecy rules.
此后，基思·默多克遭到了来自英国的尖锐批评，谴责他违反新闻审查规定。包括丘吉尔在内的很多英国当权人物，都对他耿耿于怀。鲁伯特·默多克说，“但是他问心无愧。”最近，维基解密的创始人、澳大利亚人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)还引用了这一历史事件，以表明自己绕过政府保密规定的做法是正确的。
In defeat, the Australians gained what many historians have described as the first embers of a national consciousness, apart from their British colonial legacy. “It’s certainly seen today as the beginning of a real Australian self-identity,” Rupert Murdoch said.
遭受挫败后，澳大利亚人萌发了如许多历史学家所说的独立于英国殖民统治之外的、关于国家意识的星星之火。鲁伯特·默多克说，“在我们今天看来，这便是澳大利亚人真正的国家认同感的起点。”
In recent times, successive Australian governments have promoted battlefield tours and television documentaries, leading to a growing interest in Gallipoli among younger generations, especially as the 100th anniversary approaches next year. The Australian government recently selected 8,000 people from a lottery to attend anniversary commemorations next year at the beaches in Turkey.
近年来，历届澳大利亚政府大力推广战地游览活动，鼓励专题纪录片的制作，引发了年轻一代澳大利亚人对加里波利之战的关注，尤其在一战百年纪念临近之际，更是如此。近期，澳政府通过抽签方式选取了8000名民众，参加明年在土耳其的海滩上举行的纪念活动。
“Australians were looking for a blood sacrifice to sanctify their nationhood,” said Peter Stanley, an Australian historian, explaining that Australia had gained its independence from Britain through negotiation and referendums, not war.
“当时，澳大利亚正在寻找一次‘抛头颅、洒热血’的机会，以此为契机铸就国家和民族观念，”澳大利亚历史学家彼得·史丹利(Peter Stanley)说。他的解释是，澳大利亚终结英国统治、获得独立，不是通过战争，而是通过与英国谈判和公投实现的。
“In those days, people believed that nations were born in blood,” he said.
他说，“但在那个年代，人们认为国家的独立是用鲜血换来的。”
In victory, the Turks ended decades of Ottoman defeats on the edges of the empire and emerged with a new sense of nationalism — and a leader, Mustafa Kemal, later known as Ataturk, who would lead the country to independence after the war ended. Mustafa Kemal, then a young officer, met the invading Australians with his men on the day of the landing and earned a reputation as a military genius for his success.
这场战争的胜利，让土耳其人在帝国的边缘地带终结了奥斯曼帝国过去数十年中屡战屡败的历史，新的民族主义由此萌生。新的领袖也诞生了，穆斯塔法·凯末尔·阿塔蒂尔克，人称“凯末尔”，带领土耳其在战后走向国家独立。彼时的凯末尔只是一名年轻的军官，带领他的战士们在登陆日迎击了入侵的澳大利亚军队，赢得了军事奇才的美名。
In recent years, though, Turks have been engaged in an ideological contest over Gallipoli’s legacy. With the rise of the country’s Islamist government under Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan have come efforts to diminish the role of Ataturk, who established Turkey under secular principles. The military, which once had a predominant role over politics in Turkey, has also been pushed aside under Mr. Erdogan.
然而，近年来在土耳其，关于加里波利之战的历史评说变得复杂起来。在雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)总理领导下的伊斯兰政府，竭力淡化曾建立非宗教政府的凯末尔的历史影响。在土耳其政治风云中曾起了重要作用的军队，而今在埃尔多安总理的领导下被排挤到一旁。
As a result, the Gallipoli campaign is being recast as a holy war and has become one more element in the polarization of Turkey, split between the secular and the religious.
加里波利之战从而被重塑为一场圣战，在宗教派和世俗派两极分化的斗争中又添了一笔墨迹。
“The Islamists say, ‘We defeated the infidels,'” said Kenan Celik, a longtime tour guide of Gallipoli’s battlefields. “The Kemalists say the imperialists. It’s two different interpretations.”
常年担任加里波利战场导游的凯南·切里克(Kenan Celik)说，“伊斯兰主义者会说，‘我们战胜了异教徒’；而凯末尔主义者会说，‘我们战胜了帝国主义’。这是对战争截然不同的诠释。”
Many conservative Turkish municipal governments have been organizing free battlefield tours, with a message delivered by tour guides, Mr. Celik said, of “how great Islam is.”
切里克说，在土耳其，很多保守派市政府都组织了免费的战场游，由导游向公众宣传，“伊斯兰有多么伟大”。