As Iranians responded to the victory of the cleric Hassan Rowhani in the country’s presidential race over the weekend by erupting into street parties not seen in many years, it almost seemed as if some sort of reformist revolution could be under way.
伊朗人民涌上街头参加多年未曾出现的街头派对，庆祝神职人员哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rowhani)在上周末赢得总统选举，这仿佛好像说明伊朗可能正在进行某种改革性质的革命。
Across the country, drivers honked horns, men danced to pop music and women clapped, celebrating Mr. Rowhani’s campaign pledges to bring more freedom and better relations with the outside world.
在伊朗全国各地，司机们鸣笛，男人们随着流行音乐起舞，而女人们则纷纷鼓掌，赞扬鲁哈尼的竞选承诺——带来更多自由，与外界建立更好的关系。
But Mr. Rowhani, 64, is no renegade reformist, voted in while Iran’s leaders were not paying attention. Instead, his political life has been spent at the center of Iran’s conservative establishment, from well before Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini led the Islamic Revolution in the 1970s. And analysts say that Mr. Rowhani’s first priority will be mediating the disturbed relationship between that leadership and Iran’s citizens, not carrying out major change.
但64岁的鲁哈尼并不是在伊朗领导人不注意的时候，由民众投票选出的叛变的改革者。相反，他的政治生涯是在伊朗保守派权力集团中心度过的，他在阿亚图拉鲁霍拉·霍梅尼(Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini)于19世纪70年代领导伊斯兰革命之前就开启了自己的政治生涯。分析人士表示，鲁哈尼的当务之急是调解伊朗领导层与伊朗民众间破裂的关系，而不是进行重大改革。
Even his nickname — “the diplomat sheik” — is testament to his role as a pragmatist seeking conciliation for the Islamic leadership. Whether in dealing with protesting students, the aftermath of devastating earthquakes or, in his stint as nuclear negotiator, working to ease international pressure as Iran moved forward with its nuclear program, Mr. Rowhani has worked to find practical ways to help advance the leadership’s goals.
甚至连他的绰号——“外交官酋长”——都说明他是一个寻求为伊斯兰领导层调解关系的实干家。无论是处理抗议学生——学生在毁灭性地震后爆发抗议，还是作为核谈判代表，努力在伊朗推进核项目时缓解国际压力，鲁哈尼都找到了切实可行的办法，帮助推进领导层的目标。
Though he is widely seen as a cautious realist, his first leap into Iran’s inner circle as a young man was rooted in risk. In one of his memoirs, Mr. Rowhani describes a perilous journey he took as an 18-year-old seminary student, sneaking across the border into Iraq to meet Ayatollah Khomeini in exile.
虽然他被广泛认为是一个谨慎的现实主义者，但他作为一个年轻人首次进入伊朗核心集团时却是一次冒险。鲁哈尼在他的一本回忆录中讲述了他18岁的危险之旅，当时他还是一名神学院学生，偷偷溜过边境到达伊拉克，与流亡的阿亚图拉·霍梅尼见面。
At one point, he recounts, a smuggler told him to immediately take off his turban, in order to be less visible inside their car. More dogmatic Shiite Muslim clerics would have ignored such a request, but the young Mr. Rowhani did not hesitate and quickly removed his white turban.
鲁哈尼表示，一名走私者曾让他立即摘下头巾，这样坐在这里不至于那么显眼。比较教条的什叶派穆斯林神职人员可能不会理会这样的要求，但年轻的鲁哈尼没有犹豫，迅速摘下了白头巾。
His own pragmatic flexibility in the face of ideology was on display in 2003, when Mr. Rowhani visited the earthquake struck-region of Bam while serving as secretary of the Supreme National Security Council. Despite the tensions with the United States, Iran had allowed Americans to set up an emergency hospital, and Mr. Rowhani made it a point to visit it and take photographs with American doctors.
2003年作为伊朗最高国家安全委员会(Supreme National Security Council)的秘书访问巴姆地震灾区时，鲁哈尼展示了自己在意识形态问题上务实的灵活性。尽管伊朗与美国关系紧张，伊朗已经允许美国人建立一个应急医院，鲁哈尼特意访问了这家医院，并与美国医生合影留念。
His memoirs and several other books describe a life as an integral part of the fabric of Iran’s political establishment, forming friendships at an early age with other clerics bound for positions of power and influence within the Islamic republic.
鲁哈尼的回忆录和其他几本书讲述了他作为伊朗政治权力集团结构主要成员的经历，鲁哈尼早年就与其他日后掌权、在伊斯兰共和国拥有影响力的神职人员建立了友谊。
Mr. Rowhani has described a train journey in 1967 that only in hindsight would seem momentous. Along that trip, he befriended a fellow Shiite cleric who is now the influential head of the office of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Ayatollah Khomeini’s successor. Also on that train was a cleric who would turn out to become the national prosecutor. Another influential friend from the pre-revolution years was Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president whose endorsement helped ease Mr. Rowhani’s road to the presidency.
鲁哈尼叙述了1967年的一次火车之旅，它的重大意义是在事后才意识到的。在那次旅行中，他和一名什叶派神职人员成为了朋友，那个人现在是最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)的办公室负责人，影响力很大。哈梅内伊是霍梅尼的继任者。那趟火车上还有一名日后会成为国家检察官的神职人员。鲁哈尼在革命前的岁月里结识的另一位有影响力的朋友是阿里·阿克巴尔·哈什米·拉夫桑贾尼(Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani)。这位伊朗前总统的支持为鲁哈尼的总统之路卸去了不少负担。
“His lifelong career shows he has been at the heart of Iranian politics and his goal is to serve the Islamic republic of Iran,” said Ali Shakouri-Rad, a reformist politician. “The very fact he is elected shows that he is very much accepted by our establishment.”
“从他奋斗一生的事业看，他一直身处伊朗政治的核心，他的目标是为伊朗伊斯兰共和国服务，”改革派政治人士阿里·沙库里-拉德(Ali Shakouri-Rad)说。“正是他当选这个事实表明，他得到了我们的权力集团的极大认可。”
On Sunday, in Mr. Rowhani’s first major speech since becoming president-elect, that focus was already on display. He warned that the country’s many problems would not be solved overnight, and said he would enter talks with the governing establishment of clerics and commanders for advice.
周日，在鲁哈尼成为候任总统后的首次重要讲话中，这种专注的目的已经显现出来了。他警告称伊朗的许多问题不会在一夜之间得到解决，同时表示他会同由神职人员和军方领导组成的权力集团进行商谈，寻求建议。
“He is the right man for the job,” said Soroush Farhadian, 31, a political editor at the reformist newspaper Bahar. “He is a modern cleric, and a diplomat, which is useful in foreign and domestic politics.”
“他是进行这项工作的合适人选，”31岁的改革派报纸《巴哈尔》(Bahar)政治新闻编辑索鲁什·法尔哈迪安(Soroush Farhadian)说。“他是一个现代的神职人员，一个外交官，这对国外和国内的政治都非常有用。”
The diplomat sheik played a key role in Iran’s voluntary suspension of uranium enrichment in 2004, which Western powers responded to by asking for more concessions from Iran.
2004年，伊朗自动暂停了铀浓缩活动，这名外交官酋长在其中起了关键作用，而西方大国的反应却是要求伊朗做出更多让步。
In Iran, the move is now regarded as a failure, and in the years since, the Iranian leadership has taken a much harder negotiating line.
在伊朗，暂停铀浓缩的举动现在被认为是一个败笔，而在自那之后的这些年里，伊朗的领导层一直采取的是更加强硬的谈判路线。
In his book “National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy,” on his position as the chief nuclear negotiator from 2003 until 2005, Mr. Rowhani defended himself, arguing that all critical advances in the nuclear program were made during the suspension. “We dealt both with increasing outside pressures and the need to make consensus within the country,” he wrote.
他在一本题为《国家安全与核外交》(National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy)的书中记述了从2003年到2005年担任首席核谈判代表期间的经历。在书中他为自己辩护，称核计划的所有关键进展都是在暂停期间取得的。“我们应对了不断增加的外部压力，以及国内达成共识的要求，”他写道。
During the recent election, Mr. Rowhani argued that it was again time to change tactics in the nuclear program and reduce international pressure on Iran.
在最近的选举中，鲁哈尼称又到了改变核计划的策略、减少伊朗所承受的国际压力的时候了。
The nuclear case, he wrote in his book, has turned into the most complicated negotiations the Islamic republic has ever held.
他在书中写道，围绕核计划的谈判，已经演变成了伊斯兰共和国进行过的最复杂的谈判。
“It is good for centrifuges to operate,” he said in a campaign video, “but it is also important that the country operates as well, and that the wheels of industry are turning.”
“离心机运转起来当然好，”他在一段竞选视频中说，“但整个国家良好运行，工业的车轮转动起来也很重要。”
On Sunday, Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman told reporters that there would be no change in nuclear policy. But reformists led by former President Mohammad Khatami, who backed Mr. Rowhani in the election, say it is time for a new approach.
周日，伊朗外交部(Foreign Ministry)发言人告诉记者，核政策不会发生变化。但以在选举中支持鲁哈尼的前总统穆罕默德·哈塔米(Mohammad Khatami)为首的改革派称，是采取新方法的时候了。
“The election result shows that people want a change in the nuclear policy,” Mr. Shakouri-Rad said. “Now we will wait and see what Mr. Rowhani will do.”
“选举结果表明，人们希望核政策能发生转变，”沙库里-拉德说，“鲁哈尼会如何行动，我们拭目以待。”