A mace-wielding clown lashes at a bear cub. An elephant stands on its rear legs on the point of a stun gun, electric arcs running through its body.
一个挥舞着狼牙棒的小丑用鞭子抽打小熊。一头大象用两条后腿站立在电击枪的顶端，电流传遍它的全身。
These and dozens of other images featured at a poster exhibition in Beijing are meant to shock, so that hopefully visitors will go home with the message the organizers want them to remember: animal performance is cruel, and people can help end it by not watching.
上述画面以及数十个其他形象出现在了北京的一个海报展上，它们的目的就是要触目惊心，让观众在回到家后仍然铭记组织者想要传递的信息：动物表演是残忍的，人们可以拒绝观看，从而终结它。
“Not Born to Perform,” which runs until April 15, is yet another anticruelty campaign by Animals Asia Foundation.  Except this time, seeking a venue to display the posters, the animal welfare group has teamed up with an unlikely partner, the city’s oldest and perhaps best-known zoo.
“真我无表演”展览是亚洲动物基金(Animals Asia Foundation)的又一次反对虐待动物的行动，展览将持续到4月15号。不过这一次，在寻找海报展览场地的过程中，这家动物保护组织找到了一个意想不到的合作伙伴，那就是这个城市历史最悠久、或许也是最有名的动物园。
“By agreeing to host the exhibition on their premises, Beijing Zoo has set a precedent for all other zoological gardens in China,” said Pei Xin, the senior animal welfare officer of Animals Asia. “We hope more zoos will join it in making such an outstanding commitment to ending animal performance.”
亚洲动物基金的高级动物福利官员裴鑫说，“这样的展览在全国动物园还是第一次，北京动物园在这方面可以说起到了引导表率的作用。我们希望更多的动物园能像北京动物园这样明确地表达反对动物表演的决心。”
The exhibition may help educate “zoo managers on why animal performances stifle the expression of normal behavior and that is just not right,” said Zhang Jinguo, the deputy curator of the Beijing Zoo. It also tells visitors that “novelty and thrill isn’t always cool,” he said.
北京动物园副园长张金国说，这次展览将告诉“动物园管理者，为什么不能进行违背动物天性的表演。”它还能告诉参观者，“不要一味追求新奇和刺激。”
The partnership illustrates the long way Chinese zoos have come in a continuing debate, sometimes laden with high-stake confrontations, over the welfare of wild animals in captivity.
这次合作突显出了中国的动物园在一场旷日持久的辩论中的所走过的历程，在这场有关野生动物福利的辩论中，有时充满了涉及重大利益的交锋。
“As recently as 2010, mentioning the issue of animal performance was a sure-fire way to be excluded and ignored by zoos and animal facilities,” Dave Neale, Animal Asia’s animal welfare director, said in an emailed statement.
亚洲动物基金会的动物福利总监戴夫·尼尔(Dave Neale)在一份邮件声明中说，“只要提及动物表演的问题，势必遭到动物园和动物驯养机构的排斥和忽略，一直到2010年还是这种情况。”
About 50 percent of urban zoos, 91 percent of the wildlife parks and 89 percent of the aquariums in China were still operating recreational animal shows, China Zoo Watch, a volunteer-based group that documents alleged abuses, found in 2012, after monitoring over 40 facilities across the country.
志愿者组织中国动物园观察(China Zoo Watch)致力于记录虐待动物行为。该组织调查了全国的40多个动物驯养机构，并于2012年发现，大约50%的城市动物园、91%的野生动物园和89%的水族馆仍然在经营娱乐性的动物演出。
Even the Beijing Zoo, in its 107 years as a public zoo, had its share of animal abuse scandals. In July 2010, the zoo was found to have covered up the death of a panda for three weeks. Earlier the same year, news that a zoo restaurant served exotic animals including hippopotamus and kangaroos subjected the zoo to public ridicule.
北京动物园作为一家对公众开放的动物园已经有107年的历史。但即使是这家动物园也曾有过虐待动物的丑闻。2010年7月，北京动物园被曝将一只熊猫死亡的消息隐瞒了长达三个星期。当年早些时候，有新闻报道说，北京动物园内的一家餐厅有河马和袋鼠等野味供应，这个消息引发了公众的嘲讽。
But consciousness about the issue and practices also started to change that year. The State Forestry Administration and the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development both intervened, calling for an end to abusive exploitation of captive animals in zoos. Many city zoos quietly stopped programs involving animal shows.
不过，公众对动物表演问题的意识从那年开始出现了变化。国家林业局与住房和城乡建设部都已经进行了干预，要求停止对动物园驯养动物进行虐待性开发利用。许多城市的动物园悄悄停止了含有动物表演的节目。
But the controversy did not stop.
但争议并未停止。
“Some facilities had put a lot of money in their arenas when the ban came,” Mr. Zhang said of the Beijing Zoo. “What can they do now that the shows are prohibited and their investment may never pay off? What about their contracts with troupes and trainers, which they now cannot honor? Zoos tend to agree on the principle of animal welfare, but it is never that simple in practice.”
北京动物园的张金国说，“有的单位前期投资很多，修建了动物表演的场馆，突然行政命令要求停止，投资收不回来怎么办？演出合同签了怎么办？动物园行业是认同动物福利理念的，但实际上没那么简单。”
“Zoos and nongovernmental organizations are friends,” Mr. Zhang said, “although we may have our differences over how to advance animal welfare and how far to go. We share the same idea and the same social responsibility. We will continue to work together.”
张金国说，“动物园和非政府机构是朋友，尽管我们对如何以及在多大程度上推进动物福利的问题存在分歧。我们在理念和承担的社会责任上是一致的。我们还是会合作。”