The death of a panda in a zoo in central China has raised questions about whether its living conditions and treatment there may have contributed to its sudden illness.
中国中部一家动物园一只大熊猫的死亡引起人们的疑问：这个大熊猫的生活条件和对待的方式会不会是导致其突然生病的原因。
Jin Yi, a 7-year-old female that arrived at the Zhengzhou city zoo from Sichuan Province in 2011, died on Feb. 9 from organ failure as a result of blood loss due to hemorrhagic gastroenteritis, the state-run China News Service reported.
国家媒体中国新闻网消息称，今年7岁的雌性熊猫“锦意”在2月9日死于器官衰竭，这是急性出血性肠胃炎导致大出血的结果，她是2011年从四川省运到郑州市动物园的。
The zoo said a more thorough investigation into the cause of death was underway. Pandas in captivity can live into their 20s.
该动物园称，正在对熊猫的死亡进行更彻底的调查。圈养的熊猫可以活20几年。
Jin Yi came to Zhengzhou in 2011 on loan from the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan.
“锦意”是2011年从四川省的中国保护大熊猫研究中心租借给郑州的。
The China News Service said its reporter had visited the panda area at the zoo where a second panda, Wen Yu, was still living and found that parts of the enclosure were filthy and that the smell of feces was overpowering.
中国新闻网消息称，记者去了该动物园的大熊猫饲养处，另一只大熊猫“文雨”仍生活在那里，记者注意到圈内十分肮脏，粪便的气味扑鼻而来。
“The smell here assails the nostrils. Who could stand it?” the news service quoted a visitor as saying. “Every time I saw the feces on the floor, I wondered how a panda could be healthy here.”
该报援引一名游客的话说，“就这里头熏人的气味，谁能受得了？每次看看到熊猫馆地上都是粪便，我就想熊猫怎么能够在这里健康生活？”
The state-run China Daily reported that some visitors had said the panda had sometimes been struck to make it pose for pictures and fed corn cakes rather than the bamboo diet it would eat in the wild, which they speculated may have contributed to its health problems.
据国家媒体《中国日报》报道，一些游客说，为了让其配合游客拍照，大熊猫有时被打，还被喂食窝头而不是在野生环境中应该吃的竹子，他们猜测这可能也是导致大熊猫生病的原因。
Li Chaojun, a section chief for the zoo, said that the animal’s care was overseen by the panda research center in Sichuan and denied that its diet or living conditions played a role in its death, the newspaper reported.
郑州市动物园动管理科科长李朝军说，中国大熊猫研究中心负责饲养工作，并否认大熊猫的饮食或生活条件是引发大熊猫死亡的原因。
Jin Yi had begun refusing to eat around Feb. 7 and died two days later despite emergency treatment.
“锦宜”从2月7日开始拒绝进食，两天后因抢救无效死亡。
The giant panda is one of China’s most recognizable symbols, and efforts to preserve the endangered species garner close attention. Only about 1,600 are believed to exist in the wild, and some 300 pandas live in zoos.
大熊猫是中国最著名的一个标志，保护这一濒危物种是人们密切关注的问题。据信目前有大约1600只大熊猫在野外生存，另有300只左右生活在动物园里。