WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump loves to set the day’s narrative at dawn, but the deeper story of his White House is best told at night.
华盛顿——特朗普总统喜欢在黎明的时候设定当天的叙事，但关于他的白宫，更深层的故事总是在夜幕中精彩上演。
Aides confer in the dark because they cannot figure out how to operate the light switches in the Cabinet room. Visitors conclude their meetings and then wander around, testing doorknobs until finding one that leads to an exit. In a darkened, mostly empty West Wing, Trump’s provocative chief strategist, Stephen Bannon, finishes another 16-hour day planning new lines of attack.
助理们在黑暗中交换着意见，因为他们没弄懂怎么操作内阁会议室的电灯开关。来访者结束会面之后走来走去，尝试不同的门把手，直到找到通往出口的门。在光线黯淡、非常空旷的西翼，特朗普爱挑衅的首席战略顾问斯蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)完成了一天16小时的工作，规划了新的攻击思路。
Usually around 6:30 p.m., or sometimes later, Trump retires upstairs to the residence to recharge, vent and intermittently use Twitter. With his wife, Melania, and young son, Barron, staying in New York, he is almost always by himself, sometimes in the protective presence of his imposing longtime aide and former security chief, Keith Schiller. When Trump is not watching television in his bathrobe or on his phone reaching out to old campaign hands and advisers, he will sometimes set off to explore the unfamiliar surroundings of his new home.
通常在下午6:30左右，或更晚的时候，特朗普会回到楼上的居住区去修整、疏缓压力，并且不时地发推。他的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)和幼子巴伦(Barron)留在了纽约，他几乎总是独自一人，有时威严的长期助手、前安全主管基思·席勒(Keith Schiller)会跟着他，以防万一。特朗普不是穿着浴袍看电视，就是用手机与竞选助手和顾问联系，或者有时候会去探索这个新家尚不熟悉的环境。
During his first two dizzying weeks in office, Trump, an outsider president working with a surprisingly small crew of no more than a half-dozen empowered aides with virtually no familiarity with the workings of the White House or federal government, sent shock waves at home and overseas with a succession of executive orders designed to fulfill campaign promises and taunt foreign leaders.
特朗普是一个门外汉总统，他的团队小得令人惊讶，有授权的助理不到六个，而且他们对白宫或联邦政府的工作毫不熟悉，特朗普上任的头两周令人眼花缭乱，一连串旨在履行竞选承诺、奚落外国领导人的行政命令出台，在国内外激起了冲击波。
“We are moving big and we are moving fast,” Bannon said, when asked about the upheaval of the first two weeks. “We didn’t come here to do small things.”
“我们正在采取大步的行动，而且动作迅速，”当被问及就职前两周的动荡时，班农说。“我们不是来这里做鸡毛小事的。”
But one thing has become apparent to his allies and his opponents: When it comes to governing, speed does not always guarantee success.
但是在他的盟友以及对手看来，有一件事情很明显：在国家治理上，速度并不总是成功的保证。
The bungled rollout of his executive order barring immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, a flurry of other miscues and embarrassments and an approval rating lower than that of any comparable first-term president in the history of polling have Trump and his top staff rethinking an improvisational approach to governing that mirrors his chaotic presidential campaign, administration officials and Trump insiders said.
行政官员和特朗普圈子里的人说，他禁止来自七个穆斯林人口占据多数的国家的移民进入美国的行政令遇挫，加上一连串其他错误和尴尬，以及支持率低于历史上任何一位首次当选的总统，令特朗普和他的高层幕僚对这种即兴管理的方式在进行反思，这种混乱让人想到他之前的竞选活动。
This account of the early days of the Trump White House is based on interviews with dozens of government officials, congressional aides, former staff members and other observers of the new administration, many of whom requested anonymity. At the center of the story, according to these sources, is a president determined to go big but increasingly frustrated by the efforts of his small team to contain the backlash.
对特朗普入主白宫早期阶段的这段描述，是在采访了几十名政府官员、国会助理、前幕僚和新政府的其他观察员之后得出的，其中很多人要求匿名。这些受访者认为，这个故事的中心就是一个决心要办大事的总统，但他的小团队遏制反弹的努力，让他越来越沮丧。
“What are we going to do about this?” Trump pointedly asked an aide last week, a period of turmoil briefly interrupted by the successful rollout of his Supreme Court selection, Judge Neil Gorsuch.
“这件事我们要怎么办？”特朗普上周语气尖锐地问一个助理。当时他的最高法院大法官人选尼尔·戈萨奇(Neil Gorsuch)成功推出，动荡的状况暂时平息了一阵。
Chris Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax Media and an old friend of the president’s, said: “I think, in his mind, the success of this is going to be the poll numbers. If they continue to be weak or go lower, then somebody’s going to have to bear some responsibility for that.”
Newsmax Media的首席执行官克里斯·拉迪(Chris Ruddy)是特朗普的老朋友，他说：“我认为，在他看来，这件事的成功将体现在民意支持率上。如果支持率继续低位或者进一步走低，那么就必须有人要承担一些责任了。”
“I personally think that they’re missing the big picture here,” Ruddy said of Trump’s staff. “Now he’s so caught up, the administration is so caught up in turmoil, perceived chaos, that the Democrats smell blood, the protesters, the media smell blood.”
“我个人认为，他们没有看到大局，”拉迪谈到特朗普的幕僚时说。“他和这届政府现在已经深深陷入了动荡，混乱明显可见，民主党人闻到了血腥味，抗议者和媒体也闻到了血腥味。”
One former staff member likened the aggressive approach of the first two weeks to D-Day, but said the president’s team had stormed the beaches without any plan for a longer war.
一位前幕僚将前两周这种疾风暴雨的做法比作“诺曼底登陆日”，但表示，这个总统班底是在没有任何长期作战计划的情况下对海滩发起强攻的。
Clashes among staff are common in the opening days of every administration, but they have seldom been so public and so pronounced this early. “This is a president who came to Washington vowing to shake up the establishment, and this is what it looks like. It’s going to be a little sloppy, there are going to be conflicts,” said Ari Fleischer, President George W. Bush’s first press secretary.
在每届政府成立之初，幕僚之间发生冲突是很常见的现象，但很少会在这么早的阶段变得如此公开、如此显著。“一位总统来到华盛顿，发誓要撼动建制派，情况看起来就是这样。它们的表现会有些乱，冲突也会出现。”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的第一个新闻秘书阿里·弗莱舍(Ari Fleischer)说。
Trump got away from the White House this weekend for the first time since his inauguration, spending it in Palm Beach, Florida, at his private club, Mar-a-Lago, posting Twitter messages angrily — and in personal terms — about the federal judge who put a nationwide halt on the travel ban. Bannon and Reince Priebus, the two clashing power centers, traveled with him.
自就职典礼以来，特朗普本周末首次离开白宫，在他位于佛罗里达棕榈滩的私人俱乐部马拉阿歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)度过，期间他在Twitter上愤怒地发布——以个人化的方式——有关那位将入境禁令在全国暂停的联邦法官的帖子。班农和雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)这两位存在分歧的权力核心与他同行。
By then, the president, for whom chains of command and policy minutiae rarely meant much, was demanding that Priebus begin to put in effect a much more conventional White House protocol that had been taken for granted in previous administrations: From now on, Trump would be looped in on the drafting of executive orders much earlier in the process.
那时，这位指挥链和政策细节对他而言几乎没什么意义的总统，正要求普利巴斯开始执行一项传统得多、被往届总统认为理所当然的白宫规矩：从今以后，特朗普介入政令起草过程的时间要早得多。
Another change will be a new set of checks on the previously unfettered power enjoyed by Bannon and the White House policy director, Stephen Miller, who oversees the implementation of the orders and who received the brunt of the internal and public criticism for the rollout of the travel ban.
另一项改变将是对班农及白宫政策主管史蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)之前享受的不受约束的权力进行一系列新的控制。普利巴斯负责监督政令的执行，也是入境禁令推出后在内部和外界首当其中遭到指责的人。
Priebus has told Trump and Bannon that the administration needs to rethink its policy and communications operation in the wake of embarrassing revelations that key details of the orders were withheld from agencies, White House staff and Republican congressional leaders like Speaker Paul Ryan.
普利巴斯已经告知特朗普和班农，随着这些政令的关键细节不为各行政机构、白宫工作人员和众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)等共和党国会领导人所知的事实遭到曝光，令他们陷入难堪之后，政府需要重新思考自己的政策和沟通机制。
Also, Priebus has created a 10-point checklist for the release of any new initiatives that includes signoff from the communications department and the White House staff secretary, Robert Porter, according to several aides familiar with the process.
据几位熟悉内情的助手表示，普利巴斯还设计了一个十项核对清单，在发布新的提案之前需要逐一核实，包括通讯联络办公室和白宫秘书罗伯特·波特(Robert Porter)首肯的。
Before he was ousted in November as transition chief, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, the Trump adviser with the most government experience, helped prepare a detailed staffing and implementation plan in line with the kickoff strategies of previous Republican presidents.
在新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)去年11月被取消过渡事务总负责人的职位前，特朗普这位有着最多政府经验的顾问曾协助准备了一份与之前几位共和党总统初任策略一致的详细的人员配备和执行计划。
It was discarded — a senior Trump aide made a show of tossing it into a garbage can — for a strategy that prioritized the daily release of dramatic executive orders to put opponents on the defensive.
它当时被丢弃了——特朗普的一位高级助手出洋相将之丢入了垃圾桶——让位于优先日常发布突发总统命令的策略，以便让对手处在守势。
Christie, who agrees in principle with the broad strokes of Trump’s immigration policy, says the president has been let down by his staff.
克里斯蒂同意特朗普在移民政策方面的大体策略，他表示是这位总统的下属让他丢了面子。
“The president deserves better than the rollout he got on the immigration executive order,” Christie said. “The fact is that he’s put forward a policy that, in my opinion, is significantly more effective than what he had proposed during the campaign, yet because of the botched implementation, they allowed his opponents to attack him by calling it a Muslim ban.”
“总统的移民政令应该得到更好的发布，”克里斯蒂的说。“事实是，在我看来，他拿出了一项比他在竞选期间提出的有效得多的政策，但因为执行上搞砸了，对手们才有机会攻击他，说那是一项穆斯林禁令。”
In the past few days, Trump’s team has stressed its cohesion and the challenges of jump-starting an administration that few outside its group ever thought would exist.
在过去几天里，特朗普的团队一直在强调自身的团结，强调一个外界很少人认为它会存在的政府启动时所面临的挑战。
“This team spent months in the foxhole together during the campaign,” said Sean Spicer, White House press secretary. “We moved into the White House as a unified team committed to enacting the president’s agenda.”
“在竞选期间，这个团队在‘掩体’里一起待了数月时间，”白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)说。“我们作为一个统一的团队入驻白宫，致力于实现这位总统的议事日程。”
Visitors to the Oval Office say Trump is obsessed with the décor — it is both a totem of a victory that validates him as a serious person and an image-burnishing backdrop — so he has told his staff to schedule as many televised events in the room as possible.
曾经到访椭圆办公室的人士表示，特朗普痴迷于这里的装饰——它既是一个胜利的图腾，可以证明他是一个严肃的人，同时也是一个烘托形象的背景——以致于他告诉工作人员尽可能多地在这个房间里安排电视采访。
To pass the time between meetings, Trump gives quick tours to visitors, highlighting little tweaks he has made after initially expecting he would have to pay for them himself.
在会面间隙时间里，特朗普带领访客快速地游览，强调他在起初认为自己要为装修埋单，后来也未做太大调整。
Flanking his desk are portraits of Presidents Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson. He will linger on the opulence of the newly hung golden drapes, which he told a recent visitor were once used by Franklin D. Roosevelt but in fact were patterned for Bill Clinton. For a man who sometimes has trouble concentrating on policy memos, Trump was delighted to page through a book that offered him 17 window covering options.
办公桌两侧是托马斯·杰斐逊(Thomas Jefferson)和安德鲁·杰克逊(Andrew Jackson)总统的画像。他会不懈地谈其新挂起来的金色窗帘的富丽堂皇，并曾告诉最近的一位访客，这窗帘是富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)使用过的，而事实上它当初是为比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)设计的。对于一个有时难以将注意力集中在政策备忘录上的男人而言，特朗普倒是乐于翻阅一本给他提供了17个窗帘选项的册子。
Ultimately, this is very much the White House that Trump wanted to build. But while the world reckons with the effect he is having on the presidency, he is adjusting to the effect of the presidency on him. He is now a public employee. And the only boss Trump ever had in his life was his father, a hard-driving developer the president still treats with deep reverence.
最终，这在很大程度上就是特朗普想要打造的白宫。不过，在这个世界正应对他的总统任期产生的影响之际，他则在适应总统任期对他的影响。他现在是一位公职人员。特朗普一生中唯一有过的老板是他的父亲，那是一位进取心十足的开发商，总统直到现在还对他存有深深的敬意。
With most of his belongings in New York, the only family picture on the shelf behind Trump’s desk is a small black-and-white photograph of that boss,Frederick Christ Trump.
因为大多数个人物品留在纽约，特朗普办公桌后面的架子上摆放的唯一一张家庭照片是他那位老板弗雷德里克·克里斯特·特朗普(Frederick Christ Trump)的一张不大的黑白照。