Thanksgiving is a time to spend wholesome moments with family and enjoy great food and drink.
感恩节是一家团聚，享受美酒美食，身心快乐的时光。
It’s also a time to panic about getting that complex menu cooked on time and keeping yourself from going crazy without tripping over the children or forgetting something crucial at the grocery store.
但它同时也伴随着手忙脚乱，复杂的大餐要按时做完，孩子添乱或者忘了从杂货店买回重要的东西，也要克制自己不抓狂。
Thank goodness there are tablet and phone apps to help with all of this.
谢天谢地，我们有平板电脑、手机的应用来帮忙。
Thanksgiving: A Bon Appétit Manual is a beautiful and useful app to help you cook on Thanksgiving. Its calm, clean graphics may make you feel calm yourself as you juggle gravy, dessert, drinks and more. It is full of both individual recipes and complete menus, each with straightforward text instructions and lavishly illustrated with great photos.
“感恩节：好胃口手册”(Thanksgiving: A Bon Appétit Manual)是一款好看又好用的感恩节烹饪移动应用。温和干净的界面设计能帮你在手忙脚乱地应付肉汁、甜点和饮料之余平静下来。它内置丰富的个人菜谱和完整菜单，均附有简洁明了的文字说明和丰富精美的照片。
It will even build a menu time schedule for you, letting you know what dish to prepare at what time so that everything is ready when you need it. Guidelines include what utensils you’ll need, and if you feel in need of a drink after all the stress of cooking, there’s even a guide to cocktails.
它甚至可以帮你建一个菜单时间表，让你明确什么时候该准备哪道菜，这样当你需要的时候，一切都可以准备就绪。它的指导方案详细到需要用的工具，如果你觉得烹饪压力太大而需要喝一杯的话，它甚至教你怎么做各种鸡尾酒。
There are just two issues here. I wish it had a way to auto-generate shopping lists for you based on your food choices. And while the menu system is pretty slick, it may involve a few too many taps to suit gravy-spattered fingers in the kitchen. It is free, though, so it’s hard to complain too much.
只有两个问题。我希望它还能在你选择所食品的基础上自动生成购物清单。还有，菜单系统界面有点繁复，在厨房做饭满手都是肉汁，还要点击那么多下很不方便。不过这个应用是免费的，所以实在不能要求太多了。
Simpler, but with the added option to build shopping lists, is Thanksgiving Menu Maker. Menu Maker has a fairly basic interface but nevertheless offers useful cooking guidelines with about 75 recipes. Though it’s more straightforward than Bon Appétit’s app, it still has handy extras like hints and tips videos, and ideas on what to do with the leftovers. If you can ignore the annoying advertising for Fine Cooking magazine that keeps appearing, you’ll probably like this app. Best of all, it’s free.
“感恩节菜单制作”(Thanksgiving Menu Maker)这个应用稍简单一些，不过有自动生成购物清单的选项。“菜单制作”的界面相当简洁，却提供了75道菜的实用烹饪指导。它比“好胃口”简单明了，也提供方便的附加项目，比如小窍门视频，以及怎样处理剩菜等建议。不过屏幕上总有有讨厌的《佳肴》(Fine Cooking)杂志的广告，如果你能视而不见的话，多半会喜欢这个应用。最棒的一点就是，它也是免费的。
When it comes to menu and cooking apps like these, the Android platform seems oddly underserved compared with the iPhone and iPad. One pretty good option is the free app Thanksgiving Recipes and Jokes. It does well in delivering recipe ideas in a lighthearted style, though the “jokes” seem few and far between.
奇怪的是，在类似的菜单与烹饪应用方面，安卓平台似乎总是不如iPhone和iPad。免费应用“感恩节菜谱与笑话”(Thanksgiving Recipes and Jokes)是个不错的选择。它提供比较轻松的菜单创意，尽管“笑话”似乎不算多。
It also has a cute if slightly strange decoration and presentation gallery to give you ideas for your table. There’s not much in the way of advanced scheduling to help you cook a whole meal, however. Also, the slightly clunky interface means you can end up scrolling around the actual recipe pages a lot to see all the instructions. A grubby phone could be the result.
应用中还有一个可爱却也稍显奇特的餐桌装饰和摆放图片库，提供餐桌创意。不过没有多少能帮你做出一整顿饭的高级计划。同样，界面略微笨拙，可能得翻遍菜谱页面去看所有指导，最后弄得手机脏兮兮的。
One big task for Thanksgiving chefs is keeping track of which pan is on which burner at which heat level — and there are a couple of apps that can do this for you. On iOS I think the best is Kitchen Pad Timer. It costs $2, it includes a center burner option if you have five in your kitchen, and its interface is clear and usable.
感恩节大厨有一项大工程，就是要记住哪个锅是在哪个加热设备上，温度又是多少——现在有一些移动应用可以帮你做到了。我认为iOS系统上的最佳应用是“Pad厨房定时器”(Kitchen Pad Timer)，售价2美元，它有一个中心加热设备选项，可以管理厨房里的五个加热设备，界面清晰好用。
A slightly kookier and more playful option is the Dirty Kitchen Timer, $2 on Android or $3 for iPads. It offers five timers, and it’s more fun. But unless you’re a supercalm cook, its various bells, whistles and graphics may distract you.
也可以选择有些奇怪但更好玩的“肮脏厨房定时器”(Dirty Kitchen Timer)，在安卓系统上售价2美元，iPad上售价3美元。它提供5个定时器，而且更有意思。不过你得非常冷静才行，它提供各种闹铃、口哨和图像，可能会让你分心。
While you juggle Thanksgiving kitchen chaos, it can be great to keep children out of your way, love ‘em as you do. To do so in a seasonal way, check out Hand Turkey, free via iOS and for Android via Amazon. When you place your hand on the iPad’s screen, the app draws a cartoon turkey with feathers that roughly copies your finger layout. Drag and drop stickers to customize the turkey graphic and share it over Twitter, Facebook or email.
虽然你很爱孩子们，但应付厨房里的麻烦时，最好还是让他们离得远远的。应季的解决方案就是“掌上火鸡”(Hand Turkey)，iOS版免费，在亚马逊也可以买到免费的安卓版。把手放在iPad屏幕上，这块应用就会根据你手指的位置画出一只带羽毛的卡通火鸡。还可以拖放频幕上的贴纸创作出你自己的火鸡图像，并通过Twitter、Facebook和电子邮件分享。
Even sillier is the turkey-themed space invaders game for iOS, Chicken Invaders 4: Thanksgiving. It’s a classic space invaders game, where you shoot invading turkeys instead of aliens. Slick graphics and amusing sound effects should keep most kids diverted for a while.
更搞笑的是iOS上的火鸡主题太空入侵者游戏，“小鸡入侵者4： 感恩节”(Chicken Invaders 4: Thanksgiving)。它是一款经典的太空入侵者游戏，在这个版本里，你射击的目标不是外星人，而是入侵地球的火鸡。漂亮的图像和有趣的音效会吸引大多数孩子的注意力。
On Android and iOS, Cookie Dozer Thanksgiving is like those “penny falls” machines that you probably played as a child at the amusement park, only with leaf-shaped cookies. It’ll please younger kids for half an hour. Older children may like the odd but neat Thanksgiving Mahjong game, a graphically themed variant on the classic. Both are free on Android (and Mahjong is $1 on iOS).
安卓和iOS系统上的“饼干推土机：感恩节”(Cookie Dozer Thanksgiving)游戏有点像小时候游乐园里的推金币机，只不过推的不是金币，是叶子形状的饼干。它能让小孩子玩上半个小时。大一点的孩子可能会喜欢奇异而巧妙的“感恩节麻将”(Thanksgiving Mahjong)游戏，是这个经典游戏的图案变化版。这两款游戏在安卓系统上都是免费的，麻将在iOS上售价一美元。
One nice feature of Android devices is that you can distract yourself with animated screen backdrops; a great one for this time of year is the $1 Fall Leaves for Thanksgiving. It’s customizable and has 33 different high-resolution leaves that drift peaceably across the screen. If you need an escape from typical Thanksgiving stresses, you may find release by “popping” these leaves into smaller ones by tapping them as they fall.
安卓设备一个很好的特点就是有动画屏幕背景可以让你分散一下注意力；“感恩节秋叶”(Fall Leaves for Thanksgiving)就是一款不错的应季应用，售价一美元。用户可以自己定制，共有33种不同的高清叶片图案，静静地飘过屏幕。如果你想从典型的感恩节压力中脱身片刻，在叶片下落的时候点击它们，就能让它们缩小，这样或许能帮你放松一下。
Have fun! Keep the stress low and the family happy.
好好玩吧，别有压力，阖家欢乐。
Quick Call
快速召唤(Quick Call)
Activision’s shooter game Call Of Duty: Strike Team has hit Android devices after being on iOS, where it has been well received, for a little while. It’s $7, but watch those in-game purchases, which can get costly.
动作设计游戏“使命召唤：突击队”(Call Of Duty: Strike Team)继大受欢迎的iOS版之后迅速推出安卓版。售价7美元，但要注意内购，可能花费不菲。