TORONTO — A certain irony registered on the calendars of Persian Gulf residents on Dec. 18: That Wednesday was both Qatar’s National Day and International Migrants Day — a notable coincidence considering the fact that 90 percent of Qatar’s population is made up of migrant workers.
多伦多——在波斯湾居民的日历上，12月18日这一天有些讽刺意味：那个星期三既是卡塔尔国庆日，又是国际移徙者日——在移徙工人占据总人口90%的卡塔尔，这个巧合显得格外引人注目。
As the host of the first FIFA World Cup to be held in the Middle East, Qatar will be bringing the tournament to a soccer-obsessed region. Indeed, Qatar’s leaders have promoted their bid to host the World Cup as a chance to bridge cultural divides, a friendly meeting of civilizations on the soccer pitch. In the words of Hassan al-Thawadi, chief executive of Qatar’s bid, “Qatar 2022 can be a watershed moment.”
作为中东首个国际足联世界杯(FIFA World Cup)主办国，卡塔尔将把这项赛事带入一个对足球极为狂热的地区。事实上，卡塔尔领导人把申办世界杯称作是在文化鸿沟上架起桥梁的机会，是不同文明在足球场上的盛会。用卡塔尔申办团队首席执行官哈桑·塔瓦迪(Hassan al-Thawadi)的话说，“卡塔尔2022将是一个承前启后的时刻。”
Qatar will be spending an estimated $100 billion on infrastructure projects and $20 billion on new roads, and will be constructing nine stadiums and 55,000 hotel rooms. Beyond the grand ambitions, though, lies a darker side to Qatar’s World Cup bid: the institutionalized exploitation of workers from South Asia. The facilities under construction are, in many cases, being built by workers who are virtual slaves. Of Qatar’s two million inhabitants, only 225,000 are nationals; the rest are migrant workers, mostly from Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan, brought in to do manual labor.
卡塔尔打算在基建项目上投入约1000亿美元，用200亿美元筑造新的公路，并要建造九座体育场、5.5万间酒店客房。然而，在这雄心万丈的计划背后，卡塔尔对世界杯的申办也有阴暗的一面：对南亚工人进行制度化的剥削。施工中的项目，有相当一部分是由基本上无异于奴隶的工人建造的。卡塔尔的200万居民中，只有22.5万是本国国民；其他都是移徙工人，大多来自孟加拉国、印度、尼泊尔和巴基斯坦，他们是被引进到卡塔尔从事体力劳动的。
There have been widespread reports that thousands of workers are being abused and hundreds have quietly perished. The International Trade Union Confederation has estimated that, without urgent action to remedy conditions, 4,000 migrant workers will have died before a single ball is kicked in Doha.
已有很多广泛流传的报道称，有数以千计的工人遭到虐待，数百人无声无息地死去。根据国际工会联合会(International Trade Union Confederation)的估计，如果不采取紧急措施改善条件，在多哈鸣哨开球前，死亡的移徙工人将达到4000人。
An investigation by The Guardian recently revealed shocking levels of mistreatment of Nepalese construction workers by their Qatari employers. In addition to denying workers water and wages, some companies have taken their ID cards and prevented them from fleeing. Forty-four Nepalese workers died this summer, their deaths suspiciously attributed to “heart failure.” About 80 workers at one of Qatar’s most prestigious development projects have not been paid in 18 months, and they are starving. The dormitories in which South Asian laborers are housed are squalid and unhygienic, often packed with a dozen workers per room.
《卫报》(The Guardian)近期的一次调查揭露了卡塔尔雇主虐待尼泊尔建筑工人的惊人状况。除了不给工人水和工钱，一些公司还扣押了工人的身份证，以免他们逃离。去年夏天有44名尼泊尔工人死亡，他们的死被归咎为“心力衰竭”，令人起疑。在卡塔尔最宏伟的一项开发工程中，有约80名工人已经18个月没有领到薪水，并且吃不饱饭。南亚劳工居住的宿舍污秽不堪，卫生状况堪忧，一个房间往往要挤进十几个工人。
The abuse is not limited to Qatar; migrant workers face similarly horrid conditions in Saudi Arabia. Last month, a video surfaced that appeared to show a worker being violently mistreated by a Saudi man. Saudi human rights groups decried the brutish behavior, and the authorities promised to investigate, but nothing has happened. Unfortunately, none of this is an aberration for the gulf region, where attitudes toward brown-skinned laborers are overwhelmingly discriminatory, and workers have no legal protection.
虐待劳工的状况不仅限于卡塔尔；沙特阿拉伯的移徙工人面临着类似的骇人处境。上月曝光的一则视频显示，一个沙特人粗暴对待一个工人。沙特人权组织谴责了这一暴行，当局曾承诺进行调查，但外界未见任何实际行动。不幸的是，这些在海湾地区都不是个别现象，对棕色皮肤的劳工的歧视态度是压倒性的，工人得不到法律保护。
Qatar’s enslavement of migrant workers is deeply embedded. Under the kafala system of company-sponsored labor, employers have legal responsibility for their workers. In theory, this should ensure protection from unfair treatment: Laborers cannot legally work more than eight hours a day (and five consecutive hours without a break). In reality, however, companies routinely ignore the law, confiscate passports and withhold wages.
卡塔尔对移徙工人的奴役是根深蒂固的。在公司赞助劳工的“卡法拉”制度下，雇主对他们的工人负有法律责任。理论上这能确保工人免受不公正待遇：劳工一天工作八小时以上（以及连续五个小时没有休息）是非法的。然而在现实中，公司会经常性地无视法律，没收护照，扣发薪水。
Workers often sign one contract before boarding a plane to Doha, only to have it ripped up before their eyes as they are handed a second contract with big reductions in wages. Sponsoring companies must give their employees permission to move or leave the country. In practice, thousands of migrant workers — lacking education, often deep in debt, and with no recourse to justice — become their bosses’ de facto property.
工人在登上前往多哈的飞机前通常会签署一份合同，但在抵达后会眼睁睁地看着这份合同被撕毁，并被迫签署第二份合同，在其中工资会大幅降低。赞助公司必须允许雇员换地方或离境。但在实际操作中，数千名受教育程度不高、往往身负高额债务、无力为自己伸张正义的移徙工人其实已经成为老板的财产。
While FIFA has been conspicuously mute about the mistreatment of workers in Qatar, only recently calling the emirate’s labor practices “unacceptable,” other influential bodies have spoken out. The European Parliament passed a resolution demanding that FIFA “send a clear and strong message to Qatar” that the 2022 World Cup should not be “delivered by the assistance of modern slavery.” FIFPro, the 50,000-member international players’ union, has stated that it is “deeply alarmed” by reports of workplace brutality in Qatar and has demanded that FIFA act.
国际足联对卡塔尔的劳工虐待问题明显选择了沉默，直到最近才称该国对待劳工的做法是“不能接受的”，不过其他一些有影响力的团体此前已经进行过呼吁。欧洲议会(European Parliament)通过了一项决议，要求国际足联“明确而强硬地向卡塔尔表明”，2022年世界杯不应该“在现代奴役制的协助下举办”。拥有5万名会员的国际职业球员联盟(FIFPro)表示，有关卡塔尔的残酷劳工环境的报道令该机构“深感忧虑”，要求国际足联采取行动。
Fortunately for soccer fans, there is still time to pressure Qatar to reform its legal regime and improve its treatment of migrant workers. A logical place to start would be to abolish the kafala system and to allow the free movement of labor within the country. Increased inspections and stiffer penalties for companies that break labor laws should also be introduced.
对于足球迷而言，让人感到欣慰的是，现在向卡塔尔施压还来得及，可以要求它改革法律体制，改善移徙工人的待遇。从废除卡法拉制度入手看起来是合乎情理的，要让劳工能在这个国家里自由流转。还应该对违反劳工法的公司进行更多的调查，施加更严厉的制裁。
International pressure must be applied: The United States and its partners must hold Qatar to account in order to ensure that the prosperity that sports tournaments bring does not come at the price of workers’ lives. In Qatar, and across the gulf region, thousands of nameless migrants toil in the desert to provide their families with a modicum of opportunity. Yet they are treated as serfs rather than human beings.
国际压力也是必不可少的：美国及其合作伙伴应该向卡塔尔进行问责，以确保这项体育赛事带来的繁荣不以工人的生命为代价。在卡塔尔以及整个海湾地区，数以千计默默无闻的移徙者在沙漠里辛苦劳作，只为给家人带去一点点机会。然而他们被当作农奴而不是人来对待。
“In such a world of conflict, a world of victims and executioners, it is the job of thinking people,” Albert Camus wrote, “not to be on the side of the executioners.” It is also the job of Westerners not to be on the side of the slave owners. Who, in conscience, could enjoy the spectacle of a 2022 World Cup built on this modern slavery?
阿尔贝·加缪(Albert Camus)写道：“在这样一个冲突的世界，一个受害者和刽子手的世界，不站在刽子手的一方，是有头脑的人的责任。”不站在奴隶主的一方，同样也是西方人的责任。一个有良知的人，怎能心安理得地欣赏靠着现代奴役制营造起来的2022世界杯盛况？