BYSTANDER INTERVENTION is so easy to grasp, even by the most inexperienced college freshman, that the program may well be the best hope for reducing sexual assaults on campuses. Mostly it is common sense: If a drunk young man at a party is pawing a drunk young woman, then someone nearby (the bystander) needs to step in (intervene) and get one of them out of there. Of course, that can be tricky at times.
 “旁观者的干预”课程非常简单，即使是最没经验的大学新生也可以轻松掌握，因此很可能作为减少大学校园性侵害案的最佳方案。它的要义基本源于常识，那就是：假设在一个派对上，一个喝醉酒的男生正在对一个同样喝醉的女生动手动脚，那么附近的某个人（旁观者）就要在此刻挺身而出（进行干预），把他们俩其中一个弄走。当然，这事儿做起来有时候也需要点技巧。
Jane Stapleton, a University of New Hampshire researcher who runs bystander intervention programs at colleges around the country and in Europe, tells students they’ll need to be creative about outmaneuvering aggressors. Among the diversions she discusses: suddenly turning on the lights at a party or turning off the music; accidentally spilling a drink on the guy; forming a conga line and pulling him away from the woman he’s bothering and onto the dance floor. One of her favorites came from a young woman who approached her drunken girlfriend and said, loudly, “Here’s the tampon you asked for.”
新罕布什尔大学(University of Newhampshire)的研究员简·斯达普林顿(Jane Stapleton)女士一直在欧洲和美国的各个大学开展旁观者干预课程；她告诉学生，面对性侵犯者的时候要开动脑筋，用创造性的策略把他们支开。她提出的干预措施包括：在派对中忽然把灯打开或是关掉音乐；“不小心”把饮料洒到侵犯者的身上；组织大家集体跳康笳舞并把正在骚扰某个女士的男生拉进舞池。不过她最喜欢的方案是一个年轻女生提出来的，她说自己曾经走到喝醉的女朋友身边大声说：“你要的卫生巾给你找来了。”
A definite mood killer, says Ms. Stapleton.
“那绝对是一支强力灭火剂，”斯达普林顿女士说。
The goal is to stop bad behavior before it crosses the line from drunken partying to sexual assault. “We’re definitely not looking to create Captain Bystander here,” Ms. Stapleton says. In the best of circumstances, a drunken aggressor won’t realize he’s been had.
说到底，这个课程的目的就是为了防止人们在派对上喝得酩酊大醉之后玩过界，做出一些出格的举动，譬如性侵犯。“我们绝不想要塑造一个‘旁观警长’这样的角色，”斯达普林顿女士说。在大多数情况下，一个喝醉的侵犯者都不会意识到自己已经开始越矩了。
Men as well as women are being called upon to make it work. While the public discussion on sexual violence has primarily focused on the physical and emotional damage done to women, it is also true that getting arrested for sexual assault can mark a young man for life.
此外，在这个课程中，男性也和女性一样成为号召的对象。虽然公众对性暴力的讨论还主要集中在它对妇女造成的身心创伤，但是如果一个年轻男子因为性侵犯而被捕，这个罪名也会跟随他的一生，形成难以抹去的污点。
Sgt. Richard Cournoyer, a Connecticut state trooper, has investigated a dozen sexual assault cases in the last few years involving University of Connecticut students. “These aren’t people jumping out of the bushes,” he says. “For the most part, they’re boys who had too much to drink and have done something stupid. When we show up to question them, you can see the terror in their eyes.”
最近几年里，康涅狄格州的州警理查德·康诺耶尔警官(Sgt. Richard Cournoyer)已经参与调查了十来起康涅狄格大学(University of Connecticut)学生犯下的性侵犯案件。“他们不是有预谋的坏人，”他说。“大多数时候，这些作案人都是普通男生，因为喝多了酒而做了蠢事。每当我们上前盘问，都能从他们眼睛里看到害怕的神情。”
On Jan. 22, at a White House meeting on sexual violence, President Obama released a report that cited the need for men to intervene: “Bystanders must be taught and emboldened to step in and stop it.”
1月22日，奥巴马总统也在白宫专门召开了一项针对性暴力的会议。会上，奥巴马总统发布了一份报告，其中就提到男士参与干预的必要：“我们必须教育并鼓励那些旁观者勇敢地站出来，阻止性暴力的发生。”
The hope is that bystander programs will have the same impact on campus culture that the designated driver campaign has had in reducing drunken driving deaths (to 9,878 in 2011 from 15,827 in 1991). And that it can be inculcated in a relatively short time; Mothers Against Drunk Driving was founded in 1980 and within a decade was making a difference.
人们希望这个旁观者干预课程能够对校园文化进行有力的冲击，就像多年前的“指定司机活动”一样（在出去玩的一群人中指定一人为司机，该人从头到尾不能喝酒，并负责要把其他同行的人送回家。——译注）；在降低醉驾引发的死亡率方面，后者已经功效显著，醉驾导致的死亡人数从1991年的15827人降到了2011年的9878人。此外，该活动的推广和灌输也只需要较短一段时间；“反醉驾母亲联盟”(Mothers Against Drunk Driving)也是于1980年成立，但是在不到十年的时间里就起到了明显的效用。
Both take the same tack: Drinking to excess can’t be stopped but the collateral damage can.
两个活动的指导思想都是一样：如果不能阻止人们喝多，那就对此可能引发的伤害进行预防。
At a bystander training session for the University of New Hampshire football team last fall, Daniel Rowe, a sophomore, told his teammates that he would use whatever trickery it took to keep them out of trouble.
去年秋天，新罕布什尔大学校足球队举行了一次旁观者干预培训课程。大二学生丹尼尔·罗(Daniel Rowe)在课堂上告诉他的队友，他会采取一切必要的手段来防止他们惹上麻烦。
“Maybe you don’t get the girl,” he said, “but you’ll keep your scholarship and still be on the team.”
“或许你没泡到那个姑娘，但是你得以保全你的奖学金，不被球队除名，”他说。
He has watched a drunken teammate pressuring a woman at a party and pulled him aside. “I said, ‘You know she doesn’t want to talk to you, but there’s this other girl downstairs who really likes you.’ ”
有一次，他在派对上看到一个队友喝醉了酒，缠住一个女生不放，于是把他拉到一边。“我对他说：‘你知道她对你没兴趣，但是楼下有个姑娘真的喜欢你。’”
There was no girl downstairs.
其实楼下并没有另一个姑娘。
Sometimes, at a big party, Mr. Rowe won’t drink, essentially making himself the designated interventionist.
在一些大型派对上，丹尼尔特意滴酒不沾，充当“指定干预者”的角色。
Lena Ngor, a University of Massachusetts senior, says that at about half a dozen parties a semester she has girlfriends who get drunk and need rescuing. At one party, a guy was all over her friend, so Ms. Ngor put an arm around her and told him, “She’s mine, you can’t have her.” When he suggested a threesome, she declined. “No way you can handle all this,” she said.
马萨诸塞州立大学(University of Massachusetts)的大四学生莉娜·戈尔(Lena Ngor)表示，每学期的好几个派对，她都有女性朋友喝醉酒需要她去营救。有一次，一个男生缠着她的朋友不放，于是戈尔走过去搂住朋友说：“她是我的，你带不走她。”那个男生进而提出想要“三人行”，但是戈尔谢绝了。“你会吃不消的，”她说。
David E. Sullivan, a district attorney in western Massachusetts, prosecutes about a dozen sex crimes a year at five area campuses, including the University of Massachusetts and Amherst College. He is also the father of three daughters, and it scares him to think that, as numerous researchers have documented, nearly one of five women is sexually assaulted during her college years. “Can you imagine if you told parents there was a one in five chance that their daughter would be hit by a bus? No one would send their kid to college.”
西马萨诸塞州的地方检察官大卫·沙利文(David E. Sullivan)先生每年也会处理来自五个校区的数十起性犯罪案件，包括马萨诸塞州立大学和艾姆赫斯特学院(Amherst College)。正如众多研究人员证实的那样，每五个女生中就有一个曾在大学期间遭到过性侵犯，而这让沙利文先生想到便不寒而栗，因为他也是三个女儿的父亲。“你能想象对家长们说他们的女儿有五分之一的几率被公车撞到吗？那样的话，就没有人会愿意把女儿送去上大学了。”
With several high-profile rapes roiling campuses and an enforcement push by the Obama administration, public attention has been focused on sexual assault in a way not seen since a generation of feminists first raised these issues in the 1980s. In just the past few months, victims of sexual assault from Amherst College, the University of Connecticut and Vanderbilt have filed federal complaints faulting their schools for inadequate responses.
自1980年代的女权主义者把性侵犯首次提上议程之后，美国的大学校园里又发生了几起影响十分恶劣的强奸案，奥巴马政府也推行了强有力的相关措施，从而使得公众的注意力再次以全新的视角集中于此。过去几个月里，艾姆赫斯特学院、马萨诸塞州立大学和范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)的性侵犯受害者都向联邦政府对他们的学校提起了投诉，指责校方处理不力。
For everyone involved, says David Lisak, a longtime researcher on campus rape, “It is a murky mess.” That includes the young women who are filing complaints, the young men being accused and the outdated campus judicial systems trying to affix innocence or guilt. “All these colleges are struggling independently to figure this out,” Mr. Lisak says. “They’re all scared.”
长期关注校园强奸案的研究员大卫·里萨克(David Lisak)表示，这些投诉对每个卷入其中的人来说“都是一个烂摊子”，包括提出投诉的女生、被告的男生以及试图用“有罪/无罪”来判定对错的旧式大学司法系统。“每所大学都在独自努力想把这件事理出头绪，”里萨克说，“他们都噤若寒蝉。”
At last month’s meeting on sexual violence, President Obama announced the creation of a task force to coordinate a federal response to campus rape, including ensuring that colleges comply with the law and develop effective policies, and he pledged to offer more support.
而就在白宫上个月召开的反性暴力会议上，奥巴马总统宣布，联邦政府会成立一支专门工作组来整合出一系列应对校园强奸案的举措，包括确保各个大学遵从法律，制定有效的反性暴力政策，并承诺会提供更多的支持。
Some of the frustration for colleges can be traced to April 2011, when the Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights issued what has come to be known as the “Dear Colleague” letter. It warned that under the 1972 Title IX legislation (until then used primarily to assure parity between men’s and women’s athletics) colleges were mandated to have a comprehensive system in place for dealing with sexual violence complaints. Failure to do so could result in a university losing tens of millions of dollars in federal funding.
至于大专院校在这方面的部分困扰可以回溯到2011年4月，那时的美国教育部平权办公室(Office of Civil Rights)发布了一封在后来被称作“亲爱的同事”的公开信。信中警告说，根据1972年通过的《教育法第九篇修正案》(1972 Title IX)；在那之前，这篇修正案主要用于确保男女体育运动之间的对等）规定的内容，大专院校有义务设置一整套应对性暴力投诉的综合体系。假如不能照办，这些大学可能会被取消联邦政府上千万美元的拨款。
In a few instances the Dear Colleague letter provided specific guidelines; mostly it left universities to figure out how to carry out the mandate. For this reason, Dartmouth is inviting representatives from two dozen universities to meet this summer to begin putting together a system of best practices for campus tribunals.
此外，这封公开信只对为数不多的几起实例给出了具体的指导方针；在大部分情况下，它都让各个大学自己想办法去实现这项义务。也正是基于这个原因，达特茅斯大学(Dartmouth University)即将在今夏邀请24所大学的代表共聚一堂，商讨如何建立一个最优的校园案件特别审理系统。
Many colleges have also responded by developing violence prevention campaigns around the bystander intervention model. Northeastern University’s Center for the Study of Sport in Society, which pioneered bystander training 20 years ago, has seen a marked uptick in demand. As Jarrod Chin, its director of training, says, “There is nothing like the threat of losing money to get people’s attention.”
对此，很多大学已经做出了积极的回应，譬如围绕“旁观者的干预”项目发起了一些预防暴力的活动。20年前，美国东北大学(Northeastern University)的“体育在社会中的效应研究中心”(Center for the Study of Sport in Society)是最早开展旁观者培训的地方，且这里也见证了人们对该培训课程需求的增长。正如这里的培训主任加洛德·秦(Jarrod Chin)先生表示：“没有比失去资金更能引起人们的注意了。”
In the last year, with financial support from District Attorney Sullivan’s office, the University of Massachusetts has created an extensive campaign to promote awareness. Posters with messages like “Be a Man, Show Me Respect,” “Don’t Be a Passive Bystander” and “Do Something” are all over campus, in libraries, locker rooms, even on the sides of buses. All 450 resident assistants have been given bystander training. Several public service videos featuring students, including one narrated by the chancellor, Kumble R. Subbaswamy, are being used as teaching tools. At a midsummer orientation for freshmen, and again the first weekend of school, a university theater group, the Not Ready for Bedtime Players, presented skits about assault and intervention.
去年，在沙利文检察官所在部门的资助下，马萨诸塞州立大学开展了一项声势浩大的活动来提高人们对性侵犯的认识。校园里到处挂着相关的标语，如“做个堂堂正正的男人，对我尊重些”、“别做冷漠的看客”、“别袖手旁观”等等。这些标语在图书馆、更衣室，甚至是公车的车身上随处可见。此外，该大学总共450名学生宿舍助理也都参加了旁观者项目培训，课程还启用了好几部由学生主演的公共服务视频，其中一部是由该大学的校长康博·萨巴斯瓦米(Kumble R. Subbaswamy)先生念的旁白。在该大学去年仲夏举办的迎新活动及开学第一周里，“不肯睡觉的表演者”校园剧团(Not Ready for Bedtime Players)也上演了如何防止、干预性侵犯的节目。
Incoming freshmen are the primary target. A study by United Educators, an insurance company owned by more than 1,200 member colleges and universities, found that 63 percent of accusers in sexual assault cases are first-year students.
刚入学的新生是最容易遭受性侵犯的群体。由United Educators保险公司提供的一份研究报告表明， 63%的性侵犯案原告都是大一新生；而该保险公司的业主涵盖了1200多所大专院校。
Enku Gelaye, a vice chancellor overseeing the campaign, says that as with the designated driver, the hope is that by giving the intervention a formal name and linking it to a prescribed set of responses, when something goes wrong a light bulb will go off in students’ heads, they will recognize what they are seeing and will remember what to do. “It takes it away from being a fluffy and amorphous idea,” she says.
督管该活动的副校长恩库·格莱尔(Enku Gelaye)女士表示，和“指定司机”活动一样，该项目的主旨是想赋予干预行为一个正式的名称，并把它和一系列指定的反应联系起来，以便在情况有所不对时，让学生们的脑子里闪过一个念头，提醒他们认识到自己面前正发生什么，并知道如何应对。“使得干预不再是一个模糊飘渺的念头，”她说。
The training may have played a role in catching a rapist on the UMass campus at the start of the fall semester. According to a police report and interviews with prosecutors, at 1:16 a.m. on Labor Day, an 18-year-old freshman stopped a young woman heading home alone from a party. Both had been drinking. He pinned her against a tree and began kissing and biting her neck. “I remember his grip around my neck making it harder to breathe,” she told the police. “I was trying to yell but I couldn’t because of the way he had his hands.” After 10 minutes, she was thrown to the ground, her legs “forced open,” her underwear “moved to the side,” and raped.
就在去年秋季那个学期开学后不久，这项培训还在马萨诸塞州立大学的一起校园强奸案中对抓捕嫌疑人施以一臂之力。据警方的报告以及对检察官的访问透露，去年劳工节当晚凌晨1:16分，一位18岁的大学新生在路上拦住了一名刚从派对出来独自回寝的年轻女子。两人都喝了不少酒，男生把女生按在一棵树上，随后开始亲吻并咬她的脖子。“我只记得他掐住我的脖子，让我呼吸困难，”受害者告诉警方说。“我想喊人，但是喊不出来，因为他掐得太紧了。”十分钟后，这名女子被摔倒在地上，双腿“被迫分开”，内裤“被扒到一边”，遭受强奸。
In the midst of this, two groups of students — a total of eight bystanders, a combination of freshmen and juniors, five women and three men — intervened. (While they have not been identified, it is known that the freshman class had attended a presentation on bystander intervention that holiday weekend and that one of the juniors had been a resident assistant.)
在这过程中，有两拨学生，也就是总共八名旁观者，包括五个女生和三个男生，有大一新生也有大三学生——都参与了干预。虽然他们的身份还没得到确认，但是已经可以确认的是，那一年的全体大一新生都在那个假期的周末听取了旁观者干预项目的报告，而八名旁观者当中的一个大三学生还曾是一名学生宿管助理。
According to the report, one witness used her smartphone to take photos of “a male party, which appeared to be naked from the waist down, on top of a female party,” while others assisted the woman off the ground and out of the immediate area. After making sure she was safe, they called for help and stayed with her until the police arrived and arrested the man.
警方报告透露，一名目击者用她的智能手机拍下了“一个腰部以下裸露的男子，当时正趴在一名女子身上，”而其他目击者则把该名女性从地上扶了起来，帮助她离开了案发现场。在确认她的安全以后，这些人开始打电话呼救并守在她的身边，直到警察赶来并逮捕了嫌疑人。
Patrick Durocher, 18, has been charged with felony rape. He has pleaded not guilty.
随后，这个名叫帕特里克·杜罗切尔(Patrick Durocher)的18岁男子被控犯有重罪强奸，但他随后辩称自己无罪。
The University of New Hampshire has developed one of the most comprehensive research, training and prevention programs in the country and it was spurred, in part, by an equally brutal campus rape back in 1987 when no one intervened.
新罕布什尔大学已经开发了一套全国范围内最为全面的性侵犯研究、培训和防止计划，而该计划从某种程度上也是因为一起同样残暴的校园强奸案而引发，只是那起案件发生于1987年，而当时没有人站出来干预。
According to an account in New England Monthly at the time, an extremely drunk freshman was led into a Stoke Hall dorm room by three drunk sophomores who took turns having sex with her. One went into the hallway and bragged that they had a train going, high-fiving his friends. Several students, including the resident assistant, knew what was going on but did not put an end to it. Nor did the roommate intervene as the three boys tried to pressure the girl into saying it was consensual.
据当时的《新英格兰月刊》(New England Monthly)报道，一个大一新生在喝到不省人事后被三个大二男生带到一间Stoke Hall的寝室，并轮流与之发生了性关系。其中一个男生还走到走廊里对人们吹嘘说他们在寝室里玩“接龙游戏”，还和朋友击掌庆祝。共有好几名学生，包括那幢楼的学生宿管助理都知道他们在做什么，但是都没有出面制止。后来，那三个男生还试图向受害女生施压，让她承认当时的行为是出于自愿，而他们的室友对此也没有出面干预。
The next morning the woman was too drunk to remember, but a few days later, after piecing it together, she filed a complaint with the university. After four nights of hearings before a campus tribunal at a 170-seat lecture hall that was open to the public, two of the boys were found in violation of a university rule called Respect for Others and were suspended for the fall semester. In criminal court, they pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and spent two months in jail. The third was cleared.
第二天一早，这名女生因为宿醉得太厉害，以至于对前一天发生的事完全记不起来。但是几天之后，她把事情的前后经过拼凑了起来，并向大学提起了投诉。随后，学校举行了四天的听证会，然后在一个170座的礼堂里开设校园特别法庭，并向公众开放。在法庭上，两名男生被认定违反了 “尊重他人”的校规，并被勒令休学整个秋季学期。在刑事法庭上，他们也承认自己行为不轨，并坐了两个月的牢；第三个人则被无罪释放。
Women on campus, including Ms. Stapleton, the researcher, led protest marches, occupied a dean’s office and at one point surrounded him, linked arms and refused to let him go until he responded to their demands. It took months, but eventually the administration started making the changes that are in place today.
在那之后，这所大学校园里的女性，包括斯达普林顿研究员在内都开展了抗议游行，占领了一位院长的办公室，还一度手挽手把他围起来，直到他对她们的要求做出回应才让他离开。这样的抗议进行了数月，学校终于就范，开始着手一系列的改革，并取得了今天我们看到的成就。
A rape treatment crisis center has been funded and is well staffed; a team of 12 professors and researchers have formed a center for evaluating and implementing bystander programs; and the athletic department holds mandatory sessions for all varsity athletes.
新罕布什尔大学拨款成立了一所强奸危机治疗中心，并且为之配备了充足的人手，还成立了一个由12位教授和研究员组成的旁观者项目评估和推行中心；此外，该大学的体育部也对所有校队的运动员开展了反性侵犯的必修课程。
It appears to have had an impact. Shortly after the 1987 rape, 37 percent of female students reported experiencing unwanted intercourse or other sexual contact; by 2006, it was 21 percent, and by 2012, 16 percent.
目前看来，这些举措已经卓有成效。在1987年那起强奸案发生后不久，有37%的女生表示自己曾经经历过非自愿的性交或其他性接触；到了2006年，这个比例降到21%，在2012年又进一步降到了16%。
On most campuses, athletes commit a disproportionate number of sex crimes; the United Educators study found that they make up between 10 and 15 percent of the student population but account for 25 percent of assaults. Not at the University of New Hampshire.
在大多数学校里，运动员犯下的性犯罪数量都远超过常人。United Educators的一项研究发现，学生运动员通常占学生总数的10-15%左右，但他们犯下的性侵犯案件占到了案件总数的25%。可喜的是，这个数字并不适用于新罕布什尔大学。
In 2007, the athletic department revamped its public health program, requiring all freshman varsity athletes to take seminars on hazing and bullying; alcohol and drug use; sexual responsibility and consent; and diversity. Last semester, a mandatory session on bystander intervention was added for sophomores. The results are significant. In 2013, seven athletes had cases before the judicial affairs office compared with 75 in 2007.
2007年，该大学的体育部整肃了他们的公共健康计划，要求所有新入学的校队运动员都参加一系列研讨会，主题包括欺凌弱小、酗酒和吸毒、性责任和性许可、人群的多样性等。在上个学期，他们又对大二学生增设了一门旁观者的干预课程，且要求必修。这样整肃的成效非常显著。2013年，只有七名学生运动员惊动了他们的司法事务办公室，而这一数字在2007年是75人。
College men use two words to describe when a man gets in the way of another man’s business, and it is not “bystander intervention.” For the purposes of a family newspaper, call it “shot blocking.”
通常在高校里，如果一个男生碍了另一个男生的事，那么他们会用两个词来形容，只是这两个词并不是“旁观者干预”。鉴于这是一份童叟皆宜的报纸，我们姑且叫它“盖帽”。
This was on Matt Martel’s mind during a taxi ride home with a friend and a very drunk woman they’d met at a UMass party. “The two of them were touching, cuddling, it was obvious she was down for whatever,” says Mr. Martel, a junior. “She’d lost her inhibitions to the point that it really seemed like a good idea for her to go home with this guy she hardly knew.”
当麦特·马特尔和他的一个朋友在马萨诸塞州立大学参加派对后和一个在派对上遇到的已经喝茫的女生一起打车回家时，正念大三的麦特当时就是这么想的。“他们两个人在那儿又是摸又是抱，那个女生显然已经什么都愿意了，”马特尔先生表示。“她已经无所顾忌，所以就算让她跟这个她完全不认识的男人回家似乎也不是什么坏事。”
Mr. Martel got between them to take her back to her dorm. “I said, ‘Dude, come on, she’s hammered,’ ” he recalls. His friend was angry. “It was outright awkward,” Mr. Martel says. The next day the girl thanked him, but Mr. Martel didn’t take a lot of pleasure from it. “I could tell she didn’t remember what she was thanking me for,” he says, “but someone told her she should, so she did.”
不过，麦特最终还是进行了干预，并把她送回了寝室。他回忆说：“我对那位朋友说：‘老兄，别这样，她喝醉了，’”，而他的朋友当时就怒了。“那真的很尴尬，”他说。第二天，那个女生来找他道谢，但是麦特并没有从中感到多少愉悦。“我能看出来她其实并不知道自己为什么要谢我，只是有人告诉她应该这么做，于是她就来了。”
More than 60 percent of claims involving sexual violence handled by United Educators from 2005 to 2010 involved young women who were so drunk they had no clear memory of the assault.
在2005年到2010年间，United Educators因为性暴力而被索赔的案件中，有超过60%的涉事女生都因为喝太多而对侵犯过程不能清楚地回忆。
College officials have come to realize that campus tribunals are ill-equipped to handle the growing volume of these cases, which often devolve into a he said/she said battle. Honor codes were designed to investigate plagiarism, fighting, alcohol and drug use, not rape. Campus tribunals are made up of students, faculty and administrators. “They’re amateurs,” says Robb Jones, senior vice president of United Educators.
大学的官员们也都认识到，较于日益增多的性侵犯案件，大学的审理委员会已经落后了，而这些案子通常也就发展成为男女各执一词，对峙不下的情况。对于剽窃、打架、酗酒和吸毒，大学通常都制定有相关的荣誉准则，可是没有针对强奸的。校园的审理委员会也通常是由学生、教师和行政人员组成。“这些人都不是专业人士，”United Educators公司高级副总裁罗布·琼斯(Robb Jones)先生说。
In the past, colleges have resisted cooperating with local prosecutors for fear of drawing attention to campus crime. But tougher enforcement of federal laws, demanding more transparency, is changing that. For a year now, District Attorney Sullivan’s office has been holding monthly meetings with representatives from the University of Massachusetts and other nearby colleges to review sexual assault cases. “Anything that’s reported on campuses, we want to see,” says Jennifer Suhl, a sex crimes prosecutor in Mr. Sullivan’s office. “We don’t want them to screen anything out.”
过去，因为害怕校园犯罪引发过多关注，高等院校对于与当地检察官合作一直十分抵触。然而随着联邦政府执法力度的加大和对透明度要求的增加，情况正在发生改变。在过去一年，地方检察官沙利文先生的办公室一直和马萨诸塞州立大学及其他附近的高校代表都保持着每月一次的例会，以便审查那些性侵犯案件。“学校接到的所有报案我们都想过目，”沙利文先生署下一名专门负责性犯罪的检察官詹妮弗·苏尔(Jennifer Suhl)女士说。“我们不希望他们对我们有所隐瞒。”
A year and a half ago, Xavier University of Ohio resisted cooperating with the local prosecutor and learned a hard lesson.
大约一年半以前，俄亥俄州的赛维尔大学(Xavier University of Ohio)也曾经抗拒与当地检察官合作，而他们为此付出了不菲的代价。
In July 2012, a female student reported to the campus police that Dez Wells, a star basketball player, had raped her. Mr. Wells acknowledged having sex with the woman but said it was consensual and he used a condom. That night, according to legal papers filed by Mr. Wells, the two plus several friends gathered in a dorm room to play truth or dare. Many of the dares, Mr. Wells said, were sexual — at one point the woman gave him a lap dance; at another, she exposed her breasts. Afterward, they went back to her dorm room and had sex. Several hours later the woman reported to the police that she had been raped.
2012年7月，一名女生向校园警方报案说，她遭到了该校的明星篮球队员德斯·威尔士(Dez Wells)的强奸。威尔士先生也承认他和这名女子发生过性关系，但表示那是出于双方自愿，并且在过程中使用了避孕套。威尔士先生的案件陈述称，那天晚上，他和报案女子都参加了一个在寝室里开展的“真心话大冒险”游戏，一同参与的还有好几个朋友。威尔士先生还透露，那天晚上的很多“大冒险”都跟性有关，比如那个女生一度在他身上跳了一段艳舞，后来又裸露了双乳。接下来，两人就一同回到女生的宿舍并发生了性关系。几个小时后，该名女生向警方报案说她遭到了强奸。
Joseph T. Deters, the Hamilton County prosecuting attorney based in Cincinnati, says that he put two of his best assistants on the case, including the head of the criminal division. They were convinced no rape had occurred. “It wasn’t close,” he says. They presented it to a grand jury, which did not indict.
驻辛辛那提市的汉密尔顿郡检察官约瑟夫·迪特斯(Joseph T. Deters)先生表示，他向这个案子派去了自己手下最得力的两名助手，包括刑事庭的庭长，而他们都不认为存在强奸的事实，“（离强奸）还差得远，”他说。随后，他们把这个案子交由大陪审团裁定，而后者没有提出控告。
Mr. Deters says he repeatedly tried speaking with Xavier officials, but they did not respond. Instead, the university brought the case before its tribunal.
迪特斯先生表示，他曾多次试图和赛维尔大学校方进行对话，但是对方没有回应，而是直接把案子交给了校园审理委员会。
When Mr. Deters read the transcript of that hearing, he says: “It shocked me. There were students on that conduct board, looking at rape kits; they’d say, ‘I don’t know what I’m looking at.’ ”
后来，当迪特斯先生看到那场听证会的记录时，他表示：“我震惊了，那个提交行为委员会上竟然还有学生，而他们看到强奸罪取证套盒只会说：‘我不知道这是什么。’”
The tribunal found Mr. Wells “responsible for rape” and expelled him. Soon after, he enrolled at the University of Maryland. The N.C.A.A. requires transfers to sit out a year but made a rare exception in Mr. Wells’s case after consulting with Mr. Deters.
在这样的情况下，校园审理委员会认定威尔士“犯有强奸罪”，并把他从学校开除。没过多久，他又被另一所大学——马里兰大学(the University of Maryland)录取了。原本按照美国全国大学生体育协会(NCAA)的要求，学生运动员在被开除之后要过一年才能转学，但是在咨询了迪特斯先生之后，他们对威尔士先生法外开恩。
“I told them he was a really good kid, he’d never been in trouble with the law and I didn’t believe he’d done anything wrong,” Mr. Deters says.
“我告诉他们，德斯真的是个不错的孩子，从没做过什么作奸犯科的事，并且我不认为他做了什么错事。”迪特斯先生说。
Xavier now refers all assault cases to his office.
现在，塞维尔大学已经把所有的性侵犯案都交给了迪特斯先生的部门处理。
As for Mr. Wells, several times last season at away games, including one at Duke when he scored 30 points, fans taunted him about being a rapist, shouting, “No means no.” He is suing Xavier for his expulsion.
至于被开除的威尔士，他在上个赛季参加的好几场客场比赛都遭到一些粉丝的嘲弄，比如朝他大喊：“不愿意就是不愿意，”即便他在杜克大学(Duke University)的一场比赛中独得了30分也还是如此。现在，他正为塞维尔大学之前开除自己的做法提出起诉。