Clearly, he is a hero.
它显然是个英雄。
“Good boy, Storm!” a man’s voice says in the video, calling to a golden retriever paddling toward a brown lump bobbing in the water of Port Jefferson Harbor off Long Island. Taking it in his mouth, the dog hauls it toward the beach, a moment filmed by his owner on Sunday that has been seen by 4.5 million and counting on Facebook.
“好孩子，斯托姆！”一个男人的声音在视频中响起，呼叫一头金毛寻回犬，在长岛的杰斐逊港口，这条狗向水中一团棕色的东西游去，叼着它拖到沙滩上。这段视频是由它的主人在周日拍摄的，在Facebook上已被观看450万次，而且这个数字还在不断增长。
The lump was a fawn, which the dog dragged onto the sand. There it lay, alive but barely moving.
被狗拖到沙滩上的是一头小鹿，它躺在那里，虽然还活着，但几乎一动不动。
Storm gently nudged the fawn’s belly. It scarcely responded. He nuzzled it again. Nothing. He pawed at its tiny hooves. Then the video ended.
斯托姆轻轻拱了拱小鹿的肚子。它几乎没有任何反应。斯托姆又拱了拱它，还是没有反应。它又用爪子挠了挠小鹿小小的蹄子。然后视频就结束了。
The video footage has launched Storm to sudden social media stardom and sent him on a tour of morning TV talk shows.
这段视频令斯托姆突然成了社交媒体上的明星，并使他登上了一系列早间电视节目。
Banish any thought that the dog, a 6-year-old English golden retriever owned by Mark Freeley, a personal injury lawyer from East Setauket, N.Y., might have simply been following his instinct to retrieve.
斯托姆是一只6岁的英国金毛寻回犬，它的主人是纽约州东锡托基特的人身伤害律师马克·弗雷利(Mark Freeley)，千万不要以为这只狗可能只是因为本能而追逐猎物。
Definitely do not imagine that the dog was hungry.
千万不要以为狗是因为饿了。
“I was there, and if anybody knows Storm, they know that’s not in his heart,” said Mr. Freeley, who captured the moment on his phone while out with the golden retriever and his other, less famous dog, Sarah, a rescued Border collie. “He is the most gentle, gracious dog you ever want to meet.”
“我就在现场，如果有人了解斯托姆，他们会知道这绝对不是它的想法，”弗雷利说，他在和这头金毛寻回犬，以及他的另一条不那么出名的狗，边境牧羊犬莎拉一起散步时，用手机拍下了这段视频。“它是你能见到的最温柔、最亲切的狗。”
Mr. Freeley, who also fosters rescue dogs and does pro bono legal work for a local animal rescue, said Storm “grasped the deer by the neck — just the way a lifeguard would put his arm over someone’s neck — and dragged him in.”
弗雷利还培育其他救护犬，并为当地的动物救援组织提供无偿的法律服务，他说斯托姆“咬住鹿的脖子——就像救生员用手臂抱住溺水者的一样——把它拖了上来。”
In the video, Storm licks the deer’s jugular. “It was so touching,” Mr. Freeley said. “It showed he really had a care and was worried about the fawn.”
在视频中，斯托姆还舔了舔小鹿的颈部。“这真的很感人，”弗雷利说。“这表明它真的很小心，很为小鹿担心。”
Mr. Freely said he left to get help. He called a group he knew, Strong Island Animal Rescue League. Frank Floridia, who runs the organization, arrived with leashes and nets.
弗雷利说，他去找人帮忙，打电话给他认识的一个名叫“强力岛动物救援联盟”(Strong Island Animal Rescue League)的团体。经营该组织的弗兰克·弗洛里迪亚(Frank Floridia)带着皮带和网子抵达现场。
By then, the fawn had wobbled back up. It took one look at the men and two dogs and darted back into the water, Mr. Floridia said. “They are animals of flight; they are going to take off wherever they can go,” he said. “In a yard, they will smash through a wooden fence.”
弗洛里迪亚说，那时候，小鹿浑身颤抖着向后退去，看了一眼面前的男人和两只狗，冲回水中。“这种动物跑得飞快；它们能跑到哪儿就跑到哪儿，”他说。“在一个院子里，它们能冲破木栅栏。”
The fawn paddled out again, this time about 250 feet. After a failed attempt by Storm to fetch it once more, Mr. Floridia took off his shirt and, in his sneakers and shorts, swam out and grabbed the deer.
小鹿再次跳进水里，游出大约250英尺。斯托姆想再次抓住它，但没有成功，于是弗洛里迪亚脱下衬衫，穿着运动鞋和短裤游过去，抓住了鹿。
The 3-month-old white-tailed deer had unexplained wounds on its head and one closed eye, he said. Mr. Floridia and his partner, Erica Kutzing, drove the deer to Save the Animals Rescue Foundation in Middle Island, N.Y., where it was in stable condition late Tuesday, said Lori Ketcham, a director of the organization. The fawn was being treated with antibiotics and was drinking baby goat formula from a bowl.
他说，这是一头3个月大的白尾鹿，头上有无法解释的伤口。保护动物救援基金会(Save the Animals Rescue Foundation)位于纽约州中岛，该组织的主任洛里·凯查姆(Lori Ketcham)说，弗洛里迪亚及其合作伙伴艾利卡·库茨(Erica Kutzing)在周二晚些时候开车带着情况已经稳定下来的小鹿来到了该组织。小鹿目前正在使用抗生素治疗，并用碗喝了婴儿配方羊奶。
Many fawns that are brought to the animal rescue, Ms. Ketcham said, are there because of dogs — and not heroic ones. “I think the dog did a very good thing, but I’m very realistic about what dogs do — dogs tend to chew these little deer up,” she said.
凯查姆说，许多小鹿会被带到这家动物救援组织都是因为狗——但不是英勇的狗。“我认为这只狗做了非常好的事，但是我会实际地看待狗的行为——狗往往会咬这些小鹿，”她说。
The fawn will eventually be returned to the wild, she said. But it is recovering from many ailments, including subcutaneous emphysema, a condition in which air bubbles are trapped under the skin, making it feel like “Bubble Wrap,” Ms. Ketcham said. The illness can be caused by trauma.
她说，这头小鹿最终会被放归野外。但是，它目前还有许多疾病正在治疗，包括皮下气肿，这是一种气泡被困在皮肤下的情况，使它感觉像是“被泡沫包裹住了”，凯查姆说。这种疾病可能由精神创伤引起。
Being in a dog’s mouth, Ms. Ketcham said, could be considered traumatic — but so could falling off a sandy cliff, the rescuers’ leading theory of how the fawn got in the water.
凯查姆说，被狗叼住可能会带来创伤，但是也可能是因为从海边的悬崖上掉下来导致的——这是救援人员关于小鹿为何落水的首要猜测。
(Pay no attention to the naysayers who may suspect that a dog chased it there.)
（不要理会那些唱反调的人怀疑是狗把小鹿追下水的说法。）
“Officially this was a wonderful thing that the dog saved the deer,” Ms. Ketcham said. “But I think, if he was to his own devices, the deer would not survive.”
“理论上来说，狗救了那头鹿，这是一件很奇妙的事情，”凯查姆说。“但是我想，如果依照它的本能，那头鹿就不会生存下来。”
Character witnesses for Storm include a parade of foster puppies the Freeleys have taken in over the last month. “They tortured this poor guy,” Mr. Freely said. “And he did nothing.”
斯托姆的品行证人还包括上个月弗雷利一家寄养的一群小狗。“它们折磨这个可怜的家伙，”弗雷利说。“但它什么反应也没有。”
The family’s rabbit, Speedo, often sleeps on the dog’s back. Although Storm adamantly refuses to fetch, Mr. Freeley said, the dog seemed to know the stakes were high in retrieving the fawn.
家里的兔子斯比多经常睡在斯托姆的背上。斯托姆坚决拒绝做叼回东西的游戏，但弗莱利先生说，它似乎知道，追回这只小鹿是非常重要的。
“A dog with his need to retrieve spearheaded the rescue,” said Ms. Kutzing, the animal rescuer. The details, she said, do not really matter “as long as the ending is happy.”
“一只天性喜欢寻找猎物的狗充当了这次救援的先锋，”动物救助者库茨说。她说，细节并不重要，“只要结局是快乐的。”