Moses, famously, tried to get out of it. When God called on him to lead the Israelites, Moses threw up a flurry of reasons he was the wrong man for the job: I’m a nobody; I don’t speak well; I’m not brave.
摩西想摆脱领导责任是出了名的。当上帝召唤他领导希伯来人的时候，摩西抛出了一系列自己不合适的理由：我很平凡；我拙口笨舌；我不勇敢。
But the job was thrust upon him. Though he displayed some of the traits you’d expect from a guy who would rather be back shepherding (passivity, whining), he became a great leader. He became the ultimate model for reluctant leadership.
不过，这项使命还是降临到了他身上。尽管展现出了一个宁可回家牧羊的人的某些性格特征（被动、爱抱怨），他还是成了一位伟大领袖，成了不情不愿的领导人的终极楷模。
The Bible is filled with reluctant leaders, people who did not choose power but were chosen for it — from David to Paul. The Bible makes it clear that leadership is unpredictable: That the most powerful people often don’t get to choose what they themselves will do. Circumstances thrust certain responsibilities upon them, and they have no choice but to take up their assignment.
《圣经》中有很多不情愿的领袖，那些没有选择权力却被选中执掌权力的人——从大卫到保罗。《圣经》明确表现出，领袖的地位是多么不可预测：拥有最大权力的人往往身不由己。天降大任于斯人，除了一力承担，别无选择。
History is full of reluctant leaders, too. President Obama is the most recent. He recently gave a speech on the need to move away from military force. He has tried to pivot away from the Middle East. He tried desperately to avoid the Syrian civil war.
历史中也不乏勉为其难的领导人。奥巴马是最近的例子。他近期刚进行了一番关于美国需要把注意力从军事力量上转移开来的演讲；他试图离开中东，转向别处；他还拼命地想避免插手叙利亚内战。
But as he said in his Nobel Peace Prize lecture, “Evil does exist in the world.” No American president could allow a barbaric caliphate to establish itself in the middle of the Middle East.
然而，正如他在接受诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)时的致辞中谈到的那样，“邪恶的确存于世间。”美国总统绝不能容忍中东诞生一个残暴的哈里发国。
Obama is compelled as a matter of responsibility to override his inclinations. He’s obligated to use force, to propel himself back into the Middle East, to work with rotten partners like the dysfunctional Iraqi Army and the two-faced leaders of Qatar. He’s compelled to provide functional assistance to the rancid Syrian regime by attacking its enemies.
奥巴马被迫出于责任去压制自己的意愿。他必须动用武力，必须把自己拽回中东，必须与无能的伊拉克政府军和两面三刀的卡塔尔领导人这样的糟糕伙伴合作。他不得不攻击叙利亚政权的敌人，从而在实质上为这一腐朽政权提供帮助。
The defining characteristic of a reluctant leader is that he is self-divided. He feels compelled to do things he’d rather not do. This self-division can come in negative and positive forms.
一位不情不愿的领袖具有的决定性品质是自我矛盾：他觉得必须肩负起自己不想从事的使命。但这种自我矛盾的表现形式，既可能消极，也可能积极。
The unsuccessful reluctant leader isn’t really motivated to perform the tasks assigned to him. The three essential features of political leadership, Max Weber wrote, are passion, responsibility and judgment. The unsuccessful reluctant leader is passionless. His actions are halfhearted. Look at President Obama’s decision to surge troops into Afghanistan at the same instant he announced their withdrawal date. That’s a reluctant leader undercutting himself. If Obama approaches this campaign that way then he will withdraw as soon as the Iraqi government stumbles, or the Iraqi Army fails to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria on the ground.
那些不成功的勉为其难的领导人并不会调动积极性来完成使命。马克斯·韦伯(Max Weber)写道，政治领袖的三大要素是激情、责任感与判断力。不成功的勉为其难的领导人恰恰缺乏激情，行事半心半意。看看奥巴马总统刚一决定对阿富汗增兵后就立即宣布撤军日期的表现吧。这是一位不情不愿的领导人在自我拆台。倘若奥巴马在此次行动中也如法炮制，他就会在伊拉克政府一栽跟头，或者是政府军在地面战中一败给伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的时候，就抽身而去。
The successful reluctant leader, on the other hand, is fervently motivated by his own conscience. He forces himself to embrace the fact that while this is not the destiny he would have chosen, it is his duty and he will follow it to the end.
相比之下，成功的不情愿的领导人会在良知的驱使下格外积极。他强迫自己接纳事实：尽管这不是自我选择的命运，但这就是他的使命，而他将负责到底。
This kind of reluctant leader has some advantages over a full-throated, unreluctant crusader. Unlike George W. Bush in 2003, he’s not carried away by righteous fervor. The successful reluctant leader can be selfless. He’s not doing the work because it’s the expression of his inner being. He’s just an instrument for the completion of a nasty job.
比起底气十足、心甘情愿的斗士，这种不情愿的领导人有某些优势。与2003年的乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)不同，奥巴马没有被正义之火冲昏头脑。那些成功的不情愿的领导可以是无私的。他之所以做这件事，并不是因为听从了内心的呼唤。他不过是完成一项艰巨使命的工具。
The reluctant leader can be realistic about goals. President Obama can be under no illusions that he is going to solve the Middle East’s fundamental problems, but at least he can degrade ISIS the way we degraded Al Qaeda. Sometimes just preventing something bad — like the fall of the Jordanian regime — is noble enough, even if negative victories don’t exactly get you in the history books.
不情愿的领导人可以秉持实事求是的目标。奥巴马总统不会抱有自己能解决中东本质问题的幻想，但至少他能像削弱基地组织(Al Qaeda)那样削弱ISIS。有时候，只是阻止坏事发生，比如让约旦政权免于倒台，就足够伟大了，尽管消极的胜利并不会让你名垂青史。
The reluctant leader can be skeptical. There’s a reason President Obama didn’t want to get involved in this conflict. Our power to manage history in the region is limited. But sometimes a reluctant leader can make wise decisions precisely because he’s aware of his limitations. If you’re going to begin a military campaign in an Arab country, you probably want a leader who’d rather not do it.
不情愿的领导人可以将信将疑。奥巴马总统之所以不想卷入这场冲突，是有其理由的。我们插手中东地区历史的能力颇为有限。然而有时候，正因为了解自身的局限性，一位不情愿的领导人才可以做出明智的决策。如果要在阿拉伯国家开展军事行动，牵头的人最好是不那么情愿。
The reluctant leader can be dogged. Sometimes when you’re engaged in an unpleasant task, you just put your head down and trudge relentlessly forward. You don’t have to worry about coming down from prewar euphoria because you never felt good about this anyway.
不情愿的领导人可以是坚韧不拔的。有时候，当你不得不承担起一项不合意的使命时，只需埋头苦干。你不必担心从战前的欢欣鼓舞跌落下来，因为你本来就从未对此感觉良好。
The reluctant leader can be collaborative. He didn’t want his task, so he’s eager to share it. The Arab world can fully trust that Obama doesn’t have any permanent designs on their region because the guy is dying to wash his hands of the whole place as soon as possible.
不情愿的领导人可以与他人合作。他当初并不想承担这项任务，因此他急于与他人分担。阿拉伯世界完全可以相信，奥巴马对他们的地区没有任何永久性规划，因为这家伙恨不得赶紧洗手，从这整片地区脱身。