“What,” people ask me, “do you cook when you’re not working?” The answer is pretty consistent: “pasta and fish and a vegetable, or pasta and salad and a vegetable, or salad and fish and a vegetable, or pasta and salad and fish and a vegetable.” There are exceptions, of course, but there’s a comfort level here and it’s been this way for a long time, through different kitchens and domestic arrangements.
有人问我，“平常闲暇时下厨一般做什么菜？”我每次的回答都很一致：“意大利面、鱼和一道蔬菜；或者，意大利面、沙拉和一道蔬菜；或者，沙拉、鱼和一道蔬菜；或者，意大利面、沙拉、鱼和一道蔬菜。”当然会有例外，但我已经习惯了做这些菜，长久以来，即使是在不同的厨房，用不同的家当，都是如此。
Here’s the thing: In my professional life of finding, replicating, sometimes even “creating” recipes, my palate is up for anything. But when the work hat comes off, I fall into old and completely beloved habits.
是这么回事：在我寻找、复制，有时甚至是创造菜谱的工作时间中，我愿意尝试一切。但在工作之外，我就会陷入到自己完全钟爱的旧习惯中。
The pasta-salad-fish-veg thing began in the ’80s, when I had my first real gardens. In summer and fall, I would make a daily bastardized ratatouille and finish it by putting a piece of fish on top, then steaming that. Sometimes there was pasta underneath. Usually there was a salad. Occasionally there was bread, though now it seems superfluous. That set the pattern.
我的意大利面-沙拉-鱼-蔬菜的搭配是从上世纪80年代开始的，那时，我第一次拥有了自己的菜园。在夏秋两季，我每天都会做一道不正宗的普罗旺斯杂烩，最后在上面放一块鱼肉，然后把整盘东西蒸一下。有时，菜底下放的是意大利面。通常我还会做一个沙拉。有时有面包，不过现在看似乎很多余。这些后来就成了习惯。
And I come by the pattern, if not the ingredients, quite honestly. My mother’s comfort zone wasn’t dissimilar while my sister and I were growing up in New York City in the 1950s and ’60s. We usually started with a salad doused with Wish-Bone, though sometimes that was preceded by a slice of melon (often ripe, oddly enough; she has a knack for determining that), a half grapefruit on which sugar was tolerated, or canned fruit packed in sugar syrup. This was followed, almost always, by a piece of broiled meat (or chicken or, very, very rarely, fish), potatoes (most often mashed, though my mother made superior French fries), and a canned vegetable like green peas or (even worse) green beans.
这样的习惯是受长辈的影响，甚至可以说食材都是。我和姐姐上世纪五六十年代在纽约长大，当时，我妈妈的烹饪习惯就跟这差不多。我们总是先用威士邦(Wish-Bone)的调味酱做一份沙拉，不过有时，在那之前会吃一片甜瓜（奇怪的是，通常都是熟的；母亲很会挑瓜），半个葡萄柚，或者泡在糖浆里的水果罐头。在这之后几乎总是要吃一片烤肉（或者鸡肉，极少情况下也吃鱼肉），土豆（最常吃的是土豆泥，不过我妈炸的法式薯条也非同凡响），以及蔬菜罐头，比如青豆或者（更糟糕的）刀豆。
The quality of the ingredients was occasionally better, but sometimes worse. Relying on memory is tricky, of course, but when I grew up they were still raising pigs in Secaucus; potatoes came from Long Island, onions from the “black dirt” area of upstate New York. There were real bakeries — the kind that are making a comeback — and stores specializing in fruits and vegetables, so in the summer the tomatoes and corn came from Jersey farms.
食材的质量时好时坏。当然，记忆有时是靠不住的，但在我小时候，锡考克斯还在养猪；土豆是长岛产的；洋葱来自纽约州北部的“黑土”地区。那时已经有了真正的面包店——现在正重新流行起来的那种——以及蔬菜水果专卖店，因此在夏天，可以吃到来自新泽西农场的西红柿和玉米。
That said, the lettuce was almost always iceberg. Romaine was exotic and kale and arugula were unknown. Ten months of the year the tomatoes were packed in cellophane, orange, and nearly as hard as apples. Most root vegetables were perhaps too reminiscent of our ancestors’ presumed reliance on turnips; all I know is we didn’t eat them. (Now I adore them.)
不过，当时几乎只有卷心莴苣，萝蔓莴苣很少见。也没人知道羽衣甘蓝和芝麻菜是什么。一年中有10个月，西红柿都装在玻璃纸里，橘红色，几乎和苹果一样硬。多数根菜或许都太容易让人想起祖先靠大头菜为生的日子了；我只记得，我们那时从不吃那些。（我现在倒是很爱吃。）
Really, it wasn’t all that bad; we had fewer choices — not necessarily a negative — and we knew much less. But although olive oil was sold in four-ounce bottles (I swear!), the hegemony of Big Food was in its infancy; the first time I saw a McDonald’s was in 1967, and that was in Pennsylvania — there were none in New York City — and there were no microwaveable “meals.” TV dinners were a monthly treat.
这实际上也没那么糟；我们那时选择少一些——这不一定是坏事——见识就更少了。尽管当时橄榄油都是装在四盎司的瓶子里卖的（千真万确！），快餐企业的霸权还没有形成；我第一次看到麦当劳餐厅是1967年，在宾夕法尼亚州，纽约市一家也没有。那时也没有微波炉餐。“电视便餐”(TV dinner)是一月一次的牙祭。
Our options now are infinite, but they’re healthy only if we steer clear of the processed food aisles. (And you can buy canned fruit salad with no sugar!) Most cooks understand that making a vinaigrette is the work of a moment. Broiling a piece of fish or meat, steaming a vegetable, making a sauce for pasta — these are simple tasks.
现在我们有数不清的选择，但只有我们远离了加工食品的货架，我们的选择才是健康的。（你可以买无糖的水果沙拉罐头！）多数厨师都知道，做个醋油沙司是分分钟的事。烤一块鱼或肉，蒸一种蔬菜，做个意大利面酱——这些都不难。
Sure, I make adjustments. My pasta sometimes becomes rice (or rarely, if I’m to be honest, a more exotic grain like quinoa or farro) and the fish may be seasoned in a Japanese style: I might lightly salt-cure it, or simmer it in a mixture of soy and mirin and ginger. In this case the salad dressing might get a touch of sesame oil in it, or even a little soy and ginger. My personal preferences don’t matter much; I just have a comfort zone that’s mine, and it’s neither brilliant nor unusual.
当然，我有时也换换花样。我有时把意大利面换成米饭（或者很少的情况下，老实说，用更少见的谷类，比如藜麦或二粒小麦），鱼也许可以用日式风格调味：我可能先把鱼用盐稍微腌一下，或者在酱油、米酒和姜汁调成的汁里慢炖。这样的话，沙拉的调料中可以放点麻油，甚至可以加一点酱油和姜汁。我的个人喜好不重要；我只是有一个自己最习惯的做法，它没什么了不起的，也并非不同寻常。
I once asked the food scholar and writer Alan Davidson what he ate on lazy nights, and he said, “A tuna sandwich and a glass of milk.” I have friends who seem to live on homemade pizza, others who top salad with a piece of chicken, those who frequently “dine” on (fresh-popped) popcorn and a big salad with herbs, oil, lemon and salt. Some make stews on Sunday and eat them three times during the week. These are all modest but real options, especially when compared to fast food, takeout, and the like.
我曾经问食品专家兼作家艾伦·戴维森(Alan Davidson)，他在什么事也不想做的晚上会吃些什么，他说，“一个金枪鱼三明治，一杯牛奶。”我有些朋友似乎天天吃自制披萨也能活下去，有的朋友做沙拉时会在上面加一片鸡肉，还有一些朋友经常在正餐吃爆米花（刚爆出来的），以及一大份加了草本香料、油、柠檬和盐的沙拉。有些人在周日会炖一些菜，在接下来的一周分三次吃完。这些都是并不铺张但十分可取的选择，尤其是和快餐、外卖这类东西相比。