BUDAPEST — Zoltan Hajas learned to make palinka from a neighbor who lives on the other side of his backyard fence.
布达佩斯——佐尔坦·哈亚斯(Zoltan Hajas)是从后院篱笆墙另一边的邻居那里学会制作帕林卡(Palinka)的。
And he can get a little philosophical talking about what is basically fruit-flavored Hungarian moonshine.
而在谈到这种水果口味的匈牙利私酒时，他还带出了一些哲理。
“We are becoming very — how do you say it? — homogenized,” he said, standing in the driveway of his house outside Budapest, where he distills his palinka in two metal pots wound with piping.
“我们变得非常——怎么说呢——同质化了，”他站在布达佩斯郊外自家房子的车道上说。他平时就是在这里，用两个缠连着管子的金属罐酿造帕林卡。
“I think we really have to keep some of the ideas that make us different,” he added. “One of them is the language, that’s pretty obvious, and the other is those little things that actually we make very differently from other nations, and I think palinka is a good example of this.”
“我觉得，我们真的要保留一些让自己与众不同的东西，”他接着说，“其中一个是语言，这是显而易见的，另外就是那些我们运用完全不同于其他国家的方式制作的小东西，我想帕林卡是个很好的例子。”
To the gentle palate of a white wine drinker, palinka tastes sort of like a slap in the face — rubbing alcohol with a hint of apricot, plum or whatever fruit it was made out of. Given that it is often half-pure alcohol — or more — it is probably best consumed far from an open flame.
对于习惯了白葡萄酒醇和口感的人，帕林卡给人的感觉就像是一记耳光——它实际上就是略带杏、李子和其他某种水果原料味道的酒精。鉴于帕林卡中酒精浓度常为50%——甚至更高——饮用它时最好远离明火。
But palinka is more than just a drink here. Palinka is also politics. In 2010, Viktor Orban, the autocratic prime minister, championed a law allowing citizens to distill 50 liters (about 13 gallons) of their own palinka, tax free, as long as they used approved equipment and did not sell it or give it away.
在这里，帕林卡不光是一种饮品。它还与政治有关。2010年，该国独断专行的首相维克托·欧尔班(Viktor Orban)推出了一部法律，允许民众无需纳税就可以自己酿制50升（大约13加仑）的帕林卡，只要他们使用检验合格的设备，且不会把酒出售或者送人。
While the move was controversial in a country that has one of Europe’s highest alcohol consumption rates, it was also a savvy populist stroke by Mr. Orban and his Fidesz party. Every Hungarian seemed to have a grandfather, cousin or uncle who made palinka.
匈牙利是欧洲饮酒率最高的国家之一。这部法律在国内颇受争议，而它也是欧尔班及其青年民主主义者联盟(Fidesz)精心策划的一个民粹主义举措。似乎每一个匈牙利人都有一位祖父、表亲或叔叔会做帕林卡。
“People have been permitted to perform an activity that they have been performing illegally anyway,” said Ferenc Kumin, a spokesman for the Hungarian government. “The decision made it possible for them to acquire good quality distilling equipment and for people who distill palinka at home to share their experience.”
匈牙利政府的发言人费伦茨 ·库明(Ferenc Kumin)说，“人们只是被允许从事一种他们本来就在非法从事的活动。这个决定让他们可以获得优质的蒸馏设备，让在家制作帕林卡的人们可以分享经验。”
The move did not thrill the liquor industry, and also ran afoul of the European Union in Brussels, which requires duties on alcoholic beverages, no matter where or how they are produced and consumed.
此举自然不会受到酿酒行业的欢迎，同时也引发了总部位于布鲁塞尔的欧盟的不满。欧盟要求成员国对酒精饮料征税，无论这些酒精饮料是在哪里或以何种方式生产和饮用的。
“The E.U. rules on excise duties are important to ensure a level playing field and fair competition,” said Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman for the European Commission. “If one member state breaks them, it can have knock-on negative effects for other member states, and undermines the harmonized system.”
“欧盟对酒类税费的规定对于确保公平竞争十分重要，”欧盟委员会(European Commission)的发言人埃默尔·特赖诺尔(Emer Traynor)说，“如果一个成员国打破这些规定，可能会对其他成员国产生负面的连锁反应，从而破坏这个统一的制度。”
The commission took Hungary to court, and in April, the European Court of Justice ruled that the Orban administration’s palinka policy violated European law, a ruling the government’s agriculture minister referred to as “another shocking provocation by the Brussels bureaucrats.”
欧盟委员会把匈牙利告上了法庭，今年4月，欧洲法院(European Court of Justice)做出裁决：欧尔班政府的帕林卡政策违反了欧盟的法律。匈牙利农业部长称，这个裁决是“布鲁塞尔的官僚们另一个骇人的挑衅”。
Now, Hungary is contemplating amending its policy, but Mr. Orban recently said that it may not satisfy European regulators.
如今，匈牙利正在考虑修订政策，但欧尔班最近表示，新的法律可能也不会令欧洲的监管机构满意。
The dust-up only furthered the kind of anti-Brussels sentiment that helped Mr. Orban secure another sweeping victory in the recent election. And it is the latest European rule feeding into a narrative of Brussels’s meddling in trifling affairs, like how restaurants serve olive oil.
这场争议只是激化了匈牙利民众反对布鲁塞尔的情绪，而正是这种情绪在最近的大选中帮助欧尔班获得了全面胜利。此事再次为人们的这种看法提供了口实：布鲁塞尔正在插手无关紧要的小事，比如餐厅应该如何为顾客提供橄榄油。
Many Hungarians, like Mr. Hajas, 42, just want to be left in peace to make their palinka.
就像42岁的哈亚斯一样，许多匈牙利人只想拥有制造帕林卡的自由。
“It’s impossible to control this,” he said. “The real truth is that it doesn’t matter what Brussels will say.”
“不可能控制这件事，”他说，“实际上，布鲁塞尔有什么看法根本无关紧要。”
Though palinka is a mainstay of the Hungarian countryside, it can go upscale. One of the many varieties on sale at the Budapest airport was a half-liter bottle of Matheus kosher plum palinka for about $45 — more expensive than a nearby bottle of Johnnie Walker Black.
帕林卡不仅是在匈牙利乡村广受欢迎，它还可以进入高端市场。在布达佩斯机场销售的多种帕林卡中，有一种是符合犹太教规的半升瓶装马特乌斯(Matheus)梅子帕林卡，售价大约是45美元（约合280元人民币）——比旁边的一瓶尊尼获加黑方威士忌(Johnnie Walker Black)还贵。
Of course, making home-brewed hard liquor is not without risk. Dozens of people recently died in Kenya after drinking bootlegged liquor, and such deaths have also been a problem in the Czech Republic. So care is required. To make palinka, Mr. Hajas said, you start by gathering the fruit you want to use. He uses cherries from a tree in his yard or blackberries that grow along a fence. He collects apricots and plums from his parents’ weekend house.
当然，自制家酿烈性酒不是没有风险的。最近，有数十人因为饮用了非法生产的烈酒死在了肯尼亚，捷克共和国也存在同样的烈性酒致死问题。所以酿酒时必须要小心。哈亚斯说，制作帕林卡的第一步是收集你想用的水果。他使用的是从自家院子的树上摘下的樱桃和篱笆旁生长的黑莓。他还从父母的周末度假屋那里收集杏和梅子。
Next, you put the fruit into a barrel with some sugar, and for some fruits, like apples, you add water. Then you close the barrel, and wait four to seven weeks, stirring the contents daily.
下一步，你需要把水果放进一个桶里，加入一些糖，如果用的是苹果等其他一些水果，你还需要加水。然后，把桶盖上，等上四到七周，期间每天都搅拌一下桶里的物质。
“The fruit will go to the bottom at the end and the liquid will be nice and clear ‘fruit wine,’” Mr. Hajas explained. You then move the liquid to the distilling pot and start heating it very slowly at a low temperature.
哈亚斯解释说，“最后水果会沉到桶底，沉淀出甘美清澈的‘果酒’”。然后你可以把液体移入蒸馏锅，开始用低火十分缓慢地加热这些液体。
The two pots are connected by piping, and the second pot is used to cool the liquid. Slowly, the palinka drips out of the second pot, while some poisonous chemicals dissolve in steam.
两个蒸馏罐之间有管子相连，第二个金属罐用于冷却液体。帕林卡从第二个金属罐中慢慢流出，一些有毒化学物质则随着水蒸气消散。
Mr. Hajas stores the palinka for a few months in a glass jar that also contains sun-dried fruits. His brew is about 48 percent alcohol, or 96 proof.
哈亚斯会将帕林卡放在玻璃瓶中储存几个月，里面还放有一些水果干。他酿制的酒浓度达到了48%，也就是96标准度。
“That’s what some people call the girlish palinka,” he said with a grin, adding that he liked to be able to taste the fruit.
他笑着说，“这就是人们所说的娘炮帕林卡。”他表示，自己希望还能尝到里面的水果味道。
Others agree with his assessment. In a nearby neighborhood, Jozsef, a stout, 58-year-old state worker who has been distilling palinka for decades, was asked if a 48 percent alcohol blend was real palinka.
其他人同意他的判断。在附近的一个社区，身材壮实的约瑟夫(Jozsef)酿造帕林卡已有数十年的时间。记者问这名58岁的政府工作人员酒精浓度为48%的混合酒是不是真正的帕林卡。
“Not really,” Jozsef said, with an emphatic shake of his head, saying it had to be above 50 percent.
约瑟夫坚决地摇了摇头，说，“不是”。他称真正的帕林卡酒精浓度应该在50%以上。
He was asked why so many people made palinka. “If you look around, this is an area where everybody has fruit trees,” said Jozsef, who declined to give his last name because he is a civil servant who does not typically speak to the press. “So as not to waste it, everybody pretty much makes palinka.”
记者还问他为什么这么多人酿造帕林卡。“如果你四处看看，就会发现这里的每一个人都有果树，”约瑟夫说。“为了不浪费，大家基本上都酿造帕林卡。”约瑟夫不愿透露自己的姓氏，因为他是一名政府工作人员，通常不接受媒体采访。