“Lead helps to guard your health.”
“铅是您健康的保护神。”
That was the marketing line that the former National Lead Company used decades ago to sell lead-based household paints. Yet we now know that lead was poisoning millions of children and permanently damaging their brains. Tens of thousands of children died, and countless millions were left mentally impaired.
这是几十年前，前国家铅业公司(National Lead Company)推销含铅家用涂料时用过的广告词。然而，如今我们知道，铅毒害了数百万儿童，对他们的大脑造成永久性损伤。成千上万的儿童因此失去生命，更有无数的儿童智力受损。
One boy, Sam, born in Milwaukee in 1990, “thrived as a baby,” according to his medical record. But then, as a toddler, he began to chew on lead paint or suck on fingers with lead dust, and his blood showed soaring lead levels.
来自密尔沃基市的男孩山姆(Sam)出生于1990年，根据他的医疗记录，他曾是个“茁壮成长的婴儿”。但此后，当他还在蹒跚学步时，便开始时常嚼起含铅涂料或是吸允沾有铅尘的手指，他血液中的铅含量随之飙升。
Sam’s family moved homes, but it was no use. At age 3, he was hospitalized for five days because of lead poisoning, and in kindergarten his teachers noticed that he had speech problems. He struggled through school, and doctors concluded that he had “permanent and irreversible” deficiencies in brain function.
山姆的父母搬了家，但毫无用处。3岁时，山姆便因铅中毒住了五天的院。上幼儿园时，老师发现他有言语障碍。他读书非常吃力，医生最后得出结论，称他的患有“永久性、不可逆转的”脑功能损伤。
Sam’s story appears in “Lead Wars,” a book by Gerald Markowitz and David Rosner published this year that chronicles the monstrous irresponsibility of companies in the lead industry over the course of the 20th century. Eventually, over industry protests, came regulation and the removal of lead from gasoline. As a result, lead levels of American children have declined 90 percent in the last few decades, and scholars have estimated that, as a result, children’s I.Q.’s on average have risen at least two points and perhaps more than four.
山姆的故事出现在了今年出版的《铅之战》(Lead Wars)一书中。该书由杰拉尔德·马科维茨(Gerald Markowitz)与大卫·罗斯纳(David Rosner) 合著。书中记载了制铅企业在20世纪的极度不负责任行为。最后，经过业界抗议，新规终于出台，禁止使用含铅汽油。此后几十年，美国儿童血铅水平降低了90%，据学者们的估算，全国儿童平均智商因此上升至少两个点，甚至超过四个点。
So what are the lessons from the human catastrophe of lead poisoning over so many decades? To me, today’s version of the lead industry is the chemical industry — companies like Exxon Mobil, DuPont, BASF and Dow Chemical — over the years churning out endocrine-disruptor chemicals that mimic the body’s hormones. Endocrine disruptors are found in everything from plastics to pesticides, toys to cosmetics, and there are growing concerns about their safety.
那么，从这几十年时间内铅中毒给人类带来的灾难中，我们可以吸取哪些教训呢？在我看来，现今的化工行业就是铅行业的翻版。埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)、杜邦(DuPont)、巴斯夫(BASF)和陶氏化学(Dow Chemical)等化工企业多年来一直在大量生产内分泌干扰素，这些干扰素可模仿人体内荷尔蒙功能。从塑料制品到杀虫剂，从玩具到化妆品，内分泌干扰物无处不在。人们对此类物质安全性的担忧与日俱增。
The Endocrine Society, the Pediatric Endocrine Society, the European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology and the President’s Cancer Panel have all warned about endocrine disruptors — also referred to as E.D.C.’s, for endocrine disrupting chemicals. The World Health Organization and United Nations this year concluded: “Exposure to E.D.C.’s during fetal development and puberty plays a role in the increased incidences of reproductive diseases, endocrine-related cancers, behavioral and learning problems, including A.D.H.D., infections, asthma, and perhaps obesity and diabetes in humans.”
美国内分泌学会(The Endocrine Society)、美国儿科内分泌学会(Pediatric Endocrine Society)、欧洲儿科内分泌学会(European Society of Pediatric Endocrinology)、美国总统癌症研究小组(President’s Cancer Panel)都曾就内分泌干扰素中的内分泌干扰物（也称环境内分泌干扰物，简称EDCs）发出过警告。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)与联合国(United Nations)今年得出结论称：“胎儿发育与青春期期间接触EDCs可增加人体染患生殖系统疾病、内分泌相关癌症、包括多动症在内的行为与学习障碍、感染、哮喘的几率，可能还有肥胖及糖尿病。
Alarm about endocrine disruptors once was a fringe scientific concern but increasingly has moved mainstream. There is still uncertainty and debate about the risk posed by individual chemicals, but there is growing concern about the risk of endocrine disruptors in general — particularly to fetuses and children. There is less concern about adults.
对内分泌干扰物的警惕一度只是边缘性的科学担忧，如今这一担忧日益成为主流。虽然人们对个别化学品是否会造成危害仍不确定，争论犹存，但总体上，人们对内分泌干扰物的危害的担忧正与日俱增，尤其是对胎儿和儿童。对成人的担忧相对较轻。
Scientists are also debating whether the old toxicological models are appropriate for chemicals that mimic hormones and thus may trigger bodily changes, especially in fetuses and children.
科学家们也仍然在争论，旧毒理学模型是否适应于能够模仿荷尔蒙功能进而引起身体变化的化学药品，尤其是对胎儿和儿童而言。
These are the kinds of threats that we in journalism are not very good at covering. We did a wretched job covering risks from lead and tobacco in the early years; instead of watchdogs, we were lap dogs.
我们新闻从业者们大多不擅长关于此类危害的报道。我们早年所做的关于铅与烟草危害的报道糟糕透顶。我们没有做好“看门狗”的工作，反像是条“哈巴狗”。
One common thread is industry’s greed, duplicity and powerful lobbying in Washington and around the country. The chemical industry spent $55 million lobbying last year, twice the figure a decade earlier, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
它们的共通点就是产业的贪婪、狡诈，在华盛顿和整个国家都拥有强大的游说势力。根据响应性政治中心(Center for Responsive Politics)的数据，去年，整个化工行业的游说花费高达5500万美元（约合人民币3.35亿元），是十年前的两倍。
The Chicago Tribune last year documented how the chemical industry created a fake movement for flame retardants in furniture, supposedly to prevent fires; in fact, flame retardants don’t reduce fires but do contain endocrine disruptors that may be harmful to our children.
在去年的报道中，《芝加哥论坛报》(Chicago Tribune)记录了化工行业如何为了宣传家具中阻燃剂的使用演了了一场假把戏。事实上，阻燃剂不仅不能减少火灾隐患，反而含有可能对我们的子女健康有害的内分泌干扰物。
This summer 18 scientists wrote a scathing letter railing against European Union regulations of endocrine disruptors. That underscored the genuine scientific uncertainty about risks — until Environmental Health News showed that 17 of the 18 have conflicts of interest, such as receiving money from the chemical industry. Meanwhile, more than 140 other scientists followed up with their own open letters denouncing the original 18 and warning that endocrine disruptors do indeed constitute a risk.
这个夏天，18名科学家写了一封措辞严厉的公开信，对欧盟有关内分泌干扰物的管制大加指责。这凸显了科学界对其危害性尚不确定，直到《环境健康新闻》(Environmental Health News)披露出这18人中17人存在利益关系，比如从化工行业收受过金钱。以此同时，其他140多名科学家随后也发出公开信，声讨这18名科学家，并警告称内分泌干扰物的确可带来危害。
Andrea C. Gore, the editor of Endocrinology, published an editorial asserting that corporate interests are abusing science today with endocrine disruptors the way they once did with lead: for the “production of uncertainty.”
《内分泌学》(Endocrinology)杂志编辑安德烈·C·戈尔(Andrea C. Gore)此前发表的一篇评论称，企业利益正在内分泌干扰物的问题上滥用科学，手法和当年在铅的问题上一样：“制造不确定性”。
She added that the evidence is “undeniable: that endocrine-disrupting chemicals pose a threat to human health.”
她还称，“内分泌干扰化学物质对人体健康构成威胁的证据不可否认。”
When scientists feud, it’s hard for the rest of us to know what to do. But I’m struck that many experts in endocrinology, toxicology or pediatrics aren’t waiting for regulatory changes. They don’t heat food in plastic containers, they reduce their use of plastic water bottles, and they try to give their kids organic food to reduce exposure to pesticides.
如果连科学家都争论不休，我们其余的人自然很难知道该怎么做。但是我突然想到一点，那就是，许多内分泌学、毒理学或小儿科专家没有坐等管制规则做出改变。他们不用塑料容器热饭、减少使用塑料水瓶，并尽量给自己的孩子吃有机食品，从而减少农药的摄入量。
So a question for big chemical companies: Are you really going to follow the model of tobacco and lead and fight regulation every step of the way, once more risking our children’s futures?
最后，我想问那些大型化工企业一个问题：你们真的打算重走烟草和铅行业走过的老路，处处与监管机构作对，再次拿我们子孙后代的将来冒险？