Researchers have discovered in China a 160-million-year-old fossil of a fast-running, agile omnivore that resembled the modern-day African dormouse.
研究人员在中国发现了一具1.6亿年前的化石，形成化石的是一种奔跑迅速、动作敏捷的杂食动物，跟现代的非洲睡鼠非常相似。
The fossil, found in Liaoning Province, is the earliest known skeletal fossil of a multituberculate, and offers new insight into this mammal group’s incredible success. Multituberculates thrived alongside dinosaurs for more than 100 million years and then outlived them for 30 million years before becoming extinct, making way for rodents.
在辽宁省发现的这具化石是已知最早的多瘤齿兽(multituberculate)骨骼化石，为这个哺乳动物类群获得的惊人进化成功提供了新的线索。多瘤齿兽跟恐龙一起兴旺繁衍了1亿多年，在恐龙灭绝3000万年之后才归于灭绝，让位于啮齿动物。
The newly described species, Rugosodon eurasiaticus, had highly ornamented teeth, with many wrinkles and creases. This is a sign that multituberculates started out as omnivores, researchers said.
新发现的这个物种被定名为皱纹齿兽(Rugosodon eurasiaticus)，它们的牙齿非常考究，带有很多皱纹和皱褶。研究人员说，这个特征表明多瘤齿兽最开始时是一种杂食动物。
“It has lots of small ridges and grooves that are densely packed,” said Zhe-Xi Luo a paleontologist at the University of Chicago and one of the study’s authors. “In modern rodents this is related to a diet supplemented by small insects and small vertebrates.”
“它有很多密集排列的凸起和沟槽，”芝加哥大学的古生物学家、该研究报告的作者之一罗哲西(Zhe-Xi Luo)说。 “就现代啮齿动物而言，这与捕食小昆虫和小型脊椎动物作为补充的饮食结构有关。”
Over time, many multituberculates evolved to become herbivores, an adaptation that helped them thrive. The researchers also discovered that the rodentlike animal had mobile and flexible anklebones, suggesting that it was a fast runner that primarily lived on the ground.
随着时间的推移，许多多瘤齿兽演变成了食草动物，这一适应性改变帮助它们兴旺繁衍。研究人员还发现，这种形似啮齿类的动物拥有敏捷灵活的踝骨，表明这是一种主要居住在地面、跑得很快的动物。
“We paleontologists have always been puzzled by how some of the later multituberculates could jump from the ground and climb up in trees,” Dr. Luo said. “Lo and behold, in this early skeleton we have all those features already.”
“我们古生物学家一直都很困惑，一些晚期的多瘤齿兽如何能从地上跳起来，爬到树上，”罗哲西说。“你瞧，在这个早期多瘤齿兽的骨架上，我们已经看到了所有这些特性。”
The well-equipped ankle also helped multituberculates thrive, he said.
精良的脚踝也是多瘤齿兽兴旺繁衍的原因之一，他说。
Rugosodon is described in the current issue of the journal Science.
有关皱纹齿兽的文章见于最新一期的《科学》(Science)期刊。