BEIJING — Hoping to please his future in-laws, Larry Li fought the snarling Beijing traffic one recent spring day to chauffeur them from the train station to his home in the city in a white Volkswagen he had bought just a month earlier.
北京——不久前的一个春日，为了取悦未来的姻亲，拉里·李(Larry Li)用刚买来一个月的白色大众(Volkswagen)汽车载着他们，在北京拥堵的道路上左冲右突，从火车站回到他家。
The good will came with a cost: a fine of 200 renminbi, or $30, and a points penalty.
示好是有代价的：他缴纳了200人民币（约合30美元）的罚款，还被扣了1分。
Mr. Li, 28, a financial worker, said he and his fiancée were getting married and had just bought a car. “I felt obliged to pick her family up at the train station,” he said. “We took some detours, but we were still videotaped.”
现年28岁的金融从业者拉里说，他和未婚妻那时即将结婚，刚刚买了一辆车。“我觉得有义务到火车站接她的家人，”他说。“我们绕了点儿远路，但还是被录了像。”
The transgression: He had no local license plate, just an out-of-town one.
违规的原因是，他没有本地牌照，只有外地牌照。
In the past five years, he has applied 47 times for a Beijing license plate through a lottery-like online registry. But each time, the response has been a terse line: License plate not granted.
过去5年间，他曾在一个线上摇号系统中申请北京牌照47次。但每次得到的回复都很简单：未中签。
Beijing is one of a handful of Chinese cities that limits car license plates by official decree. The competition for a license plate in Beijing is ferocious. In the June lottery, only about one in 725 out of the 2.7 million applicants was granted a license plate, according to official data, making the system one of the most selective in the country.
北京是中国少数几个由官方下令，限制汽车牌照数量的城市之一。在这里，对牌照的争夺十分激烈。官方数据显示，共有270万人参与7月份的摇号，约每725个人里只有一个中签。
As China has urbanized and the Chinese have become more affluent, owning a car has become a way of life for many middle-class citizens. Even in Beijing, a city plagued by gridlock, the desire for cars remains strong.
随着中国走上城镇化道路，其国人也变得更富裕，对许多中产人士而言，拥有一辆汽车已经成为一种生活方式。就连在北京这个深受拥堵困扰的城市里，对车的渴望也颇为强烈。
Troubled by crowded public transportation systems, the middle class has come to associate cars with the freedom to travel. The city, with a population of about 21 million, now has 5.6 million cars, more than double what it had 10 years ago.
拥挤的公共交通系统让中产人士感到不便，于是他们把汽车和自由出行联系了起来。这座人口为2100万的城市，目前的汽车保有量是560万辆，比10年前多了逾一倍。
The glut of cars is believed to cause about 30 percent of the air pollution in Beijing, according to the city’s environmental watchdog. Not only are cars clogging the city’s streets, they also encroach on public spaces like sidewalks and bike lanes because of a lack of parking.
北京市环境监督机构称，该市30%的空气污染是由汽车过多导致的。汽车不光会堵在这座城市的道路上，由于缺少停车场，它们还会占用人行道、自行车道等公共空间。
Faced with the problems brought on by the growing number of cars, city officials decided to take action. This month, Beijing’s transportation authorities said they would keep the number of cars under 6.3 million by the end of 2020 by further tightening the annual quota for license plates.
面对汽车数量日益增多引发的问题，该市官员决定采取行动。北京交通当局于本月表示，他们会进一步压缩每年的牌照配额，到2020年底，把汽车保有量控制在630万辆以内。
The quota this year is set at 90,000, down from 120,000 a year earlier. City officials are also considering traffic congestion fees based on driving radius and number of trips.
今年的配额从一年前的12万个下降到了9万个。该市官员还在考虑根据行驶范围和里程收取拥堵费。
China is the world’s largest car market. In big cities, along with a house, a car is widely seen as a must-have before marriage. So as Mr. Li’s wedding date drew near, his patience ran out: After buying the Volkswagen in April, he drove more than 620 miles to his fiancée’s home province, Jilin in northeast China, to register his car.
中国是世界上最大的汽车市场。在大城市里，人们普遍认为婚前必须准备好汽车和房子。因此，随着拉里的婚期日益临近，他的耐心被耗尽了：在4月份买下那辆大众后，他驱车前往逾620英里外的东北省份吉林上了车牌，那是他未婚妻的老家。
With an out-of-town license plate, Mr. Li is turning to a decades-long policy called “jinjingzheng,” which translates as the “enter Beijing certificate.” The police-issued permit, which must be renewed weekly, allows people like him to drive in Beijing, but it bans driving during morning and evening rush hours throughout the city, and from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. on several major roads.
持有外地牌照的拉里，得求助于一项执行了数十年的政策，名为“进京证”，意即“进京许可证”。这种许可证由警方发放，每周都要办理更新手续。有了进京证，他这样的人就可以在北京开车，但早晚高峰时段不得上路，也不得在上午6点至晚10点之间驶上几条主路。
Jinjingzheng now helps people like Mr. Li circumvent the city’s license plate rationing, which was created in the late 1970s to monitor traffic inflows from nearby provinces. (Mr. Li got his permit after the police fine.)
进京证诞生于上世纪70年代，旨在监控附近省份进京的车流，如今却成了帮助拉里这类人绕开牌照配额制度的工具。（被警方罚款后，拉里办理了进京证。）
Zhou Pei, a 39-year-old engineer and city resident, tried a different approach after his unsuccessful application for a local plate in the lottery. Through a used-car salesman functioning as a middleman, he rented a plate for 5,800 renminbi a year (about $870) in 2013. Mr. Zhou and the owner of the plate, whom Mr. Zhou had never met, signed a contract.
现年39岁的北京居民周培（音）是一位工程师，通过摇号申请本地牌照未果后，他尝试了另一种办法。由一位二手车销售员做中间人，他在2013年以每年5800人民币（约合870美元）的价格租了一个牌照。周培和他从未见过的牌照所有者签了一份合同。
After his mother-in-law sold her car in 2014, she was free to legally match her plate to another vehicle within six months. Mr. Zhou thought it would be safer to drive a car under the name of his relative. But when he tried to terminate the contract with the unknown owner of the plate, he found that the man had died.
2014年，周培的岳母把自己的车卖掉了，她在此后6个月内可以合法地把牌照转给另一辆车。周培觉得，驾驶一辆挂在亲戚名下的车更保险一些。但当他试图跟他不认识的牌照所有者解除合同时，却发现那个人已经去世了。
“Technically speaking, my car was under his name, so it was his asset,” Mr. Zhou said. “I ended up going through a lot of hassle to solve the problem.”
“严格来说，我的车在他名下，因此是他的资产，”周培说。“为了解决这个问题，我经历了很多麻烦和周折。”
The city’s mandate to control vehicle congestion has created a thriving, and illegal, underground market for license plates, said Nie Huihua, a professor of economics at Renmin University in Beijing.
北京的中国人民大学经济学教授聂辉华说，该市控制车辆拥堵的目标，已经催生出了一个繁荣的非法地下牌照市场。
It is against the law to lease a plate obtained through the lottery system, and those who do risk revocation.
把从摇号系统获得的牌照租给他人是违法行为，这样做可能导致牌照被撤销。
Not to mention liability. Because the owner of a license plate is assumed to also be the owner of a car, those who rent plates worry that the owner could go behind their back to “sell” the car or use it as collateral in times of financial difficulties. And license plate owners fear that they will be held responsible if the renters get into serious traffic accidents.
更不要说还有责任问题。由于牌照所有者也被视为车主，租赁牌照的人担心，牌照所有者可能会偷偷把车“卖掉”，或者在遇到财务困难之际把车抵押出去。出租牌照的所有者则担心，如果租牌照的人遭遇严重的车祸，他们要承担责任。
“The reality is that many families who already have a car still have family members registering for the lottery system,” Professor Nie said, “whereas many people who need cars can’t get a license plate. This is not fair at all.”
“现实情况是，许多家庭已经有了一辆车，其成员还要去摇号，”聂辉华说，“许多需要车的人却拿不到牌照。这根本就不公平。”
Nowadays, such dealings have largely migrated online, and prices have shot through the sunroof. Discussion forums devoted to cars and classified advertisement sites like 58.com are flooded with advertisements offering to rent car license plates for Beijing, with prices ranging from 10,000 renminbi (about $1,500) to 13,000 renminbi ($1,950) a year.
如今，这类交易大多转移到了网上，价格则直线上升。一些汽车论坛里以及58.com等分类广告网站上充斥着出租北京汽车牌照的广告，价格从每年1万人民币（约合1500美元）到1.3万人民币（约合1950美元）不等。
So all that Mr. Li, the Beijing financial worker, can do now is wait for luck to turn his way in the license plate lottery. He and his wife take public transportation to work. But the car always comes in handy for a quick weekend escape from the city, to buy furniture for their new home and to visit their parents, now a 30-minute drive away.
因此，金融从业者拉里现在能做的唯有等待，等待好运在他摇号申请牌照之际降临。他和妻子乘坐公共交通工具上下班。但那辆车总能派上用场，他们可以开着它去城外度周末，去购买装点新家的家具，或者去拜访住在30分钟车程外的父母。
“Owning a car is very important for my family,” he said.
“拥有一辆车对我们家来说非常重要，”他说。