After a woman got out of her car in a Beijing animal park and was mauled by a tiger, her mother also left the car and was killed trying to save her, the local government has said.
地方政府表示，一名女子在北京一家动物园内下车，遭到老虎攻击，她的母亲随后下车，试图救她，却因之丧命。
At least one tiger mauled the women on Saturday at Badaling Wildlife World in a section that allows people to drive their own vehicles through a Siberian tiger enclosure, the Yanqing County government said in a written statement.
延庆县政府在书面声明中称，在八达岭野生动物园内允许人们自驾车穿过东北虎圈养地的区域，周六至少有一只老虎袭击了这两名女性。
Surveillance video that circulated widely online showed a woman exit a car, then walk to the other side of the vehicle, where she was attacked a few seconds later by a tiger. As the animal dragged her away, her husband and mother jumped out in an attempt to rescue her.
网上广泛传播的一段监控视频显示，一名女子下车，向车另一边走去，几秒种后她就遭到一只老虎攻击。在老虎把此人拖走之时，她的丈夫和母亲跳下车试图救人。
The woman left the car because of an argument with her husband, reported The Legal Evening News, based in Beijing. The Beijing News, also based in the Chinese capital, quoted a friend of the family who denied that the couple had been fighting.
北京的《法制晚报》报道，这名女子下车的原因是与丈夫发生了争执。总部同样位于首都的《新京报》则援引这家人一位朋友的话称，两人当时并非在吵架。
The woman who was first attacked was badly injured, and her mother, who left the car in an effort to save her daughter, was killed, The Beijing News reported. The woman’s husband was uninjured, as was their child, who remained in the vehicle, the newspaper said.
据《新京报》报道，首先遭到袭击的女子身受重伤，之后下车试图救女儿的母亲则被老虎咬死。文中称，这名女子的丈夫及留在车内的孩子没有受伤。
The park, near a famous section of the Great Wall in a county north of central Beijing, has had serious safety problems before. In March, a park employee was killed by an elephant. A security guard who stepped out of a patrol vehicle was killed by a tiger in 2014.
这座动物园位于北京正北方的一个县境内，在一段著名的长城附近，过去就发生过严重的安全问题。今年3月，动物园的一名员工被大象踩死。2014年，园区一名巡逻员在离开巡逻车后被老虎咬死。
In 2009, an 18-year-old man was killed by a tiger in the park after he scaled a fence with two friends to enter the animals’ enclosure. The men had apparently been trying to take a shortcut through the park after a hike along the Great Wall, reported Xinhua, a state-run news agency.
在2009年，一名18岁的男子与两名友人翻越围栏进入动物圈养区，之后他被一只老虎咬死。官方通讯社新华社报道，这几名男子似乎是在沿着长城徒步之后想抄近道穿过公园。
While the number of wild tigers in China has dropped to fewer than two dozen living in the far northeast, where they cross back and forth into Russia, thousands of tigers are raised in parks around the country. Visitors to parks in cities like Harbin can pay to feed them, sometimes with live animals. Critics say such breeding programs do little to help wild populations and are sometimes used as cover for the illegal trade in animal parts like tiger pelts and wine made from their bones.
尽管生活在中国东北部——它们从那里来回进出俄罗斯——的野生虎数量已经减少到不足二十多只，中国各地的动物园内却饲养着数千只老虎。去往哈尔滨等地动物园的游客可以花钱喂它们吃东西，有时是用活的动物喂食。批评者表示，这类喂养项目对野生动物种群的增长几乎没什么帮助，有时还被用来掩盖虎皮等动物部位和虎骨酒的非法交易。