On a humid summer night in Beijing, a group made up mainly of retirees gathered in front of one of Beijing’s gleaming malls to remember the past through song and dance — fake guns in tow.
在北京一个闷热的夏夜，一个主要由退休人员组成的团体，聚集在北京一座闪闪发亮的购物中心前，通过唱歌跳舞，回忆着往日的时光。他们手里还都攥着假枪。
The rapt audience — grandmothers dangling babies on their hips, sweat-stained migrant workers and two city sanitation workers — watched silently as the amateur dance troupe ran through its choreographed numbers seamlessly. Five men in sleeveless shirts banged on drums from the sidelines as speakers blasted out revolutionary-era songs.
全神贯注的观众——抱着婴儿的老奶奶、衣服上汗津津的民工以及两名环卫工人——静静地看着这个业余舞蹈团一气呵成地完成了自己精心编排的舞蹈。扬声器传出震耳欲聋的革命歌曲，边上五名身穿短袖衬衣的男子打着鼓。
Microphone in one hand and a cigarette in the other, the M.C. announced the next number with bravado: “Defeat the Japanese Devils!” A Chinese man dressed as a World War II-era Japanese soldier took center stage with a toy gun that lit up upon firing. Knock-kneed and half bent, he was no match for the roughly dozen women portraying Chinese soldiers who marched in, toy rifles held high above their heads.
一手拿着麦克风、另一手拿着一支烟的主持人用高亢的嗓音说道，下一支舞蹈是：“打日本鬼子！”一名打扮得像是二战时期的日本兵的中国男子，走到了舞台中央，手里的玩具枪在开火时就会闪闪发光。在那十几名女性舞者面前，这名拐着双腿、佝偻着腰的男子根本不是对手。女性舞者扮演的是正在行军的中国士兵，她们把玩具步枪高高举过头顶。
The dance then ended with the defeated Japanese soldier being marched offstage, as the dancers moved seamlessly to their next routine, another patriotic number accompanied by a man waving a large Chinese flag.
这支舞蹈的结局是，落败的日本兵被押下了台。接着，跳舞的人迅速开始下一个节目，这是另外一支爱国舞蹈，一名男子挥舞着一面大大的中国国旗伴舞。
Amateur dance groups such as this one, in front of the Raffles City Mall in Dongzhimen, have been a popular urban pastime among retirees in China for years. They vary in style, performing everything from from ballroom-infused exercises to simple grapevine dance moves to patriotic fare.
多年来，在中国城市的退休人员中，业余舞蹈成了一种很受欢迎的消遣方式，东直门来福士中心前的这个舞蹈团就是其中一个。这些团体风格各异，有些动作像是交谊舞风格的锻炼，也有简单的葡萄藤步，还有热火朝天的爱国舞蹈。
But not everyone is a fan. Across China there have been various reports of local residents getting fed up with the noisy practice, sometimes leading to physical confrontations.
但并非所有人都喜欢。全国各地有许多报道称，当地居民对这种嘈杂的活动不胜其烦，有时甚至引发了肢体冲突。
But the audience on Wednesday looked entertained. Certainly, the group that performed appeared more organized than most. Their routines were carefully choreographed, and the dancers moved enthusiastically to the music despite the stifling heat, changing costumes several times and using props. A male dancer said that they had been gathering in front of the mall to dance for “years.”
但周三的观众看上去很高兴。当然，表演节目的这群人看上去比大部分这类团体都更有组织。他们的动作经过了精心编排，尽管天气闷热，但舞者充满热情地随着音乐起舞，还多次更换服装，并使用了道具。一名男性舞者说，他们聚集在这个购物中心前跳舞已经“好几年了”。
“This place is good because it’s not a residential area,” he said.
“这个地方好，因为这里不是居民区，”他说。
Most performers are retired, but some still have day jobs. The leader of the group, for instance, is a middle-aged female accountant who sometimes sings a live accompaniment.
大部分跳舞的人都已退休，但部分人依然有正式工作。比如，这个舞蹈团的召集人就是一名中年女会计，她有时候会现场伴唱。
Of the group’s various numbers, the one invoking the Sino-Japanese war has drawn the greatest spotlight from the Chinese state media. Photos of the gun-toting ladies have made the rounds of Chinese news portals and state media outlets including Xinhua and China News Service.
在这个舞蹈团的众多舞蹈节目中，最受中国官方媒体关注的，就是这段能让人想起中日之间战争的表演。中年妇女持枪跳舞的照片出现在了中国的新闻门户网站上，也受到了新华社、中新社等官方新闻媒体的报道。