After revelations of a massive, state-run doping program in Russia, sports officials have been retesting urine samples from the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics, in Beijing and London. Their findings have resulted in a top-to-bottom rewriting of Olympics history.
继俄罗斯一个由国家主导的大规模兴奋剂项目被曝光之后，体育官员又对2008和2012年分别于北京和伦敦举行的夏季奥运会的尿样重新进行检测。他们的发现导致奥运史被彻底改写。
More than 75 athletes from those two Olympics have been found, upon further scrutiny, to be guilty of doping violations. The majority are from Russia and other Eastern European countries. At least 40 of them won medals. Disciplinary proceedings are continuing against other athletes, and the numbers are expected to climb.
通过进一步的检查，这两届奥运会有超过75名运动员被发现兴奋剂违规。他们大多来自俄罗斯和其他东欧国家。其中至少有40人获得了奖牌。纪律审查程序还在其他运动员中展开，人数预计会继续攀升。
Anyone looking at the record books for the Beijing and London Games might think them an illusion. Medals are being stripped from dozens of athletes and redistributed to those who were deprived a spot on the podium.
任何查看北京和伦敦奥运会记录的人可能都会觉得那是一场幻觉。几十名运动员被剥夺奖牌，重新颁发给之前应该出现在领奖台上的人。
“The numbers are just impossible, incredible,” Gian-Franco Kasper, an executive board member of the International Olympic Committee, said. “We lose credibility. Credibility is a major concern.”
“这数量真是太不可思议了，让人无法置信，”国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)执行董事会成员吉安-弗朗科·卡斯珀(Gian-Franco Kasper)说。“我们失去了信誉。信誉是个很重要的问题。”
The Olympic committee announced penalties for 16 athletes last week and another 12 on Monday. Suddenly — and unceremoniously — some undecorated Olympians are inheriting medals for their performances eight years ago. Even some sixth-place finishers are discovering that they are bronze medalists.
上周，奥林匹克委员会宣布了对16名运动员的处罚，周一又宣布了12名。突然之间，一些之前不曾获奖的奥林匹克运动员草草地接过了他们八年前的比赛所得到奖牌。就连一些当年排名第六的运动员也发现自己变成了铜牌获得者。
“This completely rewrote my Olympics story,” said Chaunté Lowe, a U.S. high jumper who participated in four Summer Games but had never won a medal.
“这完全改写了我的奥运故事，”之前参加了四届夏季运动会但从没获过奖牌的美国跳高运动员昌特·洛(Chaunté Lowe)说。
Sitting at home last week, Lowe received a curious Facebook message from a German athlete against whom she competed in 2008: “Congratulations, bronze medalist,” it read.
上周，洛在家里接到2008年和她比赛的一名德国运动员发来的奇怪的Facebook信息：“恭喜，铜牌获得者。”
After three women who finished ahead of Lowe were disqualified for doping — Anna Chicherova and Yelena Slesarenko of Russia, and Vita Palamar of Ukraine — she moved up to third place.
当年成绩排在洛之前的三位女运动员相继因兴奋剂问题被取消奖牌资格——俄罗斯运动员安娜·奇切罗娃(Anna Chicherova)、叶连娜·斯列萨连科(Yelena Slesarenko)和乌克兰运动员维塔·帕拉马尔(Vita Palamar)——她的成绩由此上升到了第三位。
Accompanying the joy of her belated recognition, she said, was an awareness of the opportunity costs she suffered. In 2008, her husband was laid off. The couple’s house in Georgia was foreclosed on that year, something Lowe said would not have happened had she distinguished herself in Beijing.
洛表示，在为迟来的认可感到高兴的同时，她也清楚意识到她自己为此付出的机会成本。2008年，她的丈夫被裁员。这对夫妇在乔治亚州的房子在那一年被取消赎回权 。洛表示，如果她当年在北京获得了奖牌，这种情况就不会发生。
“I was really young and promising at that point, and sponsors were interested in me,” Lowe, now 32, said. “A lot of interest goes away when you don’t get on that podium.”
“我当时很年轻，很有前途，赞助商也对我有兴趣，”现年32岁的洛说道。“没能走上领奖台，很多机会也就溜走了。”