On Thursday, some residents of Beijing woke up with splitting headaches. A curtain of haze had fallen across the city of more than 20 million. It was the first “airpocalypse” of the year in the Chinese capital and nearby provinces, and it had come appropriately enough one year after a similar event had led to widespread anxiety.
周四早，北京一些居民一觉醒来头痛欲裂。一层雾霾覆盖了这个有着2000万居民的城市。这是中国首都及附近省份今年迎来的首个“空气末日”，其到来的日子几乎恰好与一年前的一次类似事件相同，一年前的严重雾霾曾引起人们的普遍担忧。
“How does the smog differ from the apocalypse?” Joe Wong, a comedian from northeast China, wrote on his microblog on Wednesday night, when the pollution levels had begun surging. “After the apocalypse, you no longer worry about the smog.”
“雾霾和世界末日有什么区别？”来自中国东北的喜剧演员黄西(Joe Wong)周三夜间在他的微博上写道，当时空气污染水平开始剧增。“世界末日之后你不用再担心雾霾。”
On Wednesday night, the United States Embassy in Beijing began sending out online warnings that the air quality level had gone above 500, the upper limit of the measurement scale, and was now “beyond index” (or “crazy bad,” as one embassy employee had written on an official embassy Twitter account several years ago.) It stayed at that level until Thursday, when it dipped to “hazardous” from “beyond index.” Hazardous means an air quality index above 300, at which point the concentration of fine particulate matter in the air is many times the exposure limit recommended by the World Health Organization. American health officials say a hazardous rating means people should avoid venturing outdoors.
周三夜间，北京的美国驻中国大使馆开始在网上发警告称，空气质量指数已经超过测量尺度的上限500，属于“爆表”（或“糟糕透顶”，几年前一名使馆人员在使馆的官方Twitter上曾用过这个词。）这种污染程度一直持续到周四，但后来从“爆表”降至“危险”程度。“危险”意味着空气质量指标在300以上，也就是说空气中细微颗粒物的浓度是世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)推荐的接触限度的好几倍。美国卫生部官员称，危险程度的污染意味着人们应避免户外活动。
Xinhua, the state news agency, reported that Chinese officials had ordered the closing of some highways, and visibility in some parts of Beijing was expected to drop to 500 meters. The municipal government issued a yellow smog alert at 7 a.m. “The smog is forecast to last until Friday morning,” Xinhua reported.
国家通讯社新华社报道称，中国官员已经下令封闭了几条高速公路，北京一些地区的能见度估计不足500米。北京市政府在早晨7点发布了黄色雾霾预警信号，新华社消息称，“根据预报，雾霾将持续到周五上午。”
The four major highways closed were those from Beijing to Shanghai, Daqing to Guangzhou, Beijing to Harbin and Beijing to Pinggu.
四条被封闭的主要高速公路分别是，北京到上海、大庆到广州、北京到哈尔滨以及北京到平谷的有关路段。
The relentless pollution in Chinese cities has had other economic effects. China Daily, an official English-language newspaper, reported on Monday that there was a severe drop in tourism in Beijing last year, in part because of pollution. From January to November in 2013, the city had 4.2 million visitors, down 10.3 percent from the same period in 2012, China Daily reported, citing statistics from the Beijing Tourism Development Commission.
中国城市不断的空气污染也给经济带来一些影响。官方英文报纸《中国日报》周一报道称，去年北京市游客数量大幅下降，部分原因是污染。《中国日报》引用北京旅游发展委员会的数据称，2013年1月到11月，北京游客人数为420万，比2012年同期下降了10.3%。
The report said the commission blamed the pollution, the weak global economy and a strong renminbi.
报道称，该委员会将原因归结于污染、全球经济低迷以及人民币升值。
Some researchers have concluded that air pollution shortens lifespans considerably. One recent study said outdoor air pollution in China contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010. Another study showed that residents in one part of northern China had lived five years less on the average than residents in southern China because of pollutants from extensive coal burning for winter central heating in the north.
一些学者曾得出结论称空气污染能在相当程度上缩短人的寿命。最近一项研究指出，中国的户外空气污染造成2010年有120万人早死。另一项研究显示，中国北方部分地区的居民比南方居民平均少活五年，原因是因为北方冬季集中供暖大量燃烧煤炭产生的污染。
Some well-known online commentators posted photographs on Thursday of the invisible Beijing skyline.
一些知名网上评论员周四也发布了北京模糊不清的天际线的照片。
“This is what it looks like outside of my window, severe smog,” wrote Ren Zhiqiang, a prominent real estate tycoon, while posting two photos that were little more than snapshots of gray.
“此时的车窗外面，严重的雾霾，”著名房地产大亨任志强写道，他随贴发的两张照片几乎是一片灰色。
One American graduate architecture student, Benjamin Golze, braved the smog to travel to the Beijing airport to catch a flight, though flights in northern China are often delayed because of smog. Mr. Golze had just spent two-and-a-half weeks in Beijing to study how to design an embassy building that can look beautiful while keeping out polluted air. The concept is for his master’s thesis project at the University of California, Berkeley.
一名学习建筑的美国研究生本杰明·戈尔齐(Benjamin Golze)不顾雾霾前往北京机场赶飞机，尽管中国北方的航班经常会因雾霾而延迟。戈尔齐刚在北京结束了两个半星期的学习，他研究的是如何设计一座看上去美观的使馆建筑，同时不让污染的空气进来。这是他在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)研究生毕业论文的设想。
“People spend something like 80 percent of their lives indoors,” he said in an interview. “At that level, you have to start thinking about the long-term effects of the chronic condition.”
他在采访中说，“人一辈子差不多80%的时间花在室内。这种污染程度让人们不得不开始考虑长期处于其中所带来的长远影响。”
He added that in environments like those of Chinese cities, architects and mechanical engineers need to veer away from a traditional idea, especially popular among Western engineers, that indoor air is bad and outdoor air is good. Because of that notion, he said, many engineers spend time trying to figure out how to alleviate air pollution from indoor sources rather than deal with penetration of a building by outdoor pollutants.
他补充说，对于像中国城市这样的环境，建筑师和机械工程师们需要偏离一种传统观念，即认为室内的空气不好，而室外的空气好，这种观念在西方工程师中尤为流行。他说，由于这种观念，很多工程师花大量时间去寻找到如何将室内空气排出去的方法，而不是去解决室外污染渗入室内的问题。
“The idea is a result of the long tradition of glass buildings being totally sealed from the outside and toxic materials being used inside and the building not being vented properly,” Mr. Golze said. “It takes a conceptual flip to figure out what to do here.”
“这种观念来自一个长期的设计传统：全封闭的玻璃建筑，内部使用有毒材料，以及建筑物缺乏适当的通风，”戈尔齐说，“需要转换观念才能找到适合这里的设计。”