With land at a premium in Beijing, one enterprising resident attempted to greatly expand his residence, with disastrous results. The owner of a courtyard house in the Chinese capital dug down 60 feet, roughly equivalent to a five-story building, but the illegal excavation was too much for the aboveground structures or adjoining street to support, according to local news reports.
在寸土寸金的北京，一位雄心勃勃的居民想要极大地拓展自己的居所，却招致了灾难性的后果。据当地媒体报道，这位拥有北京一处四合院的房主，在自家院落下方深挖了60英尺，几乎相当于5层楼高，但这种非法的挖掘超出了地上建筑以及临近街道的承受范围。
Part of the residence collapsed on Saturday, and a pit more than 30 feet deep opened up in the roadway. Fifteen people living in four neighboring homes had to evacuate because of the damage, China National Radio reported.
周六，该院落发生坍塌，旁边的路面出现了一个30多英尺深的大坑。据中央人民广播电台报道，垮塌同时还殃及相邻的4间民房，住在里边的15位居民被疏散。 
The owner, Li Baojun, who is chairman of a Jiangsu Province business conglomerate and a representative to the municipal people’s congress in the eastern city of Xuzhou, had been warned by the authorities in July about illegal construction on the residence, The Beijing Morning Post reported.
据《北京晨报》报道，涉事房主名叫李宝俊，是江苏省一家企业集团的董事长和东部城市徐州的人大代表，去年7月曾因在院落内进行非法施工遭到过当局的警告。
In 2010, three construction workers from Henan Province collapsed while working below ground at the courtyard and later died in a nearby hospital, according to local news reports. The deaths of the three men probably was caused by a lack of oxygen or by poisonous gas, The Beijing News reported at the time. The property had recently been purchased, and the new owner had torn down the old structures and began a major rebuilding project, the newspaper said.
据当地媒体报道，2010年，来自河南的三位建筑工人在该院落进行地下施工时昏了过去，被送到附近一家医院后不治身亡。《新京报》当时报道称，三人可能死于缺氧或吸入有毒气体。该报称，不久前，这处房产被转手，新房主拆掉了老房子，开始进行大规模的翻修改造。
The value of land in Beijing’s city center has spurred waves of illegal renovations, with residents adding boxy rooms atop centuries-old homes and sometimes tearing down entire courtyards to replace them with multistory concrete housing blocks. The city has periodically tried to crack down on haphazard demolition and construction, but it has been unable to thwart the drive of many residents of its historic lanes, or hutong, for bigger, more modern structures.
北京市中心高昂的地价，带动了一波又一波非法翻盖房屋的潮流，居民们会在有数百年历史的老房子四周加盖四四方方的房间，有时甚至会拆掉整个四合院，用混凝土盖起多层楼房。北京市常常试图打击随意破坏和胡乱施工之举，但一直无法阻止许多住在具有历史意义的胡同里的居民对更宽敞、更现代的房屋的追逐。
The courtyard at 93 Deshengmennei Street, in a neighborhood of famous old homes between the lakes of Xihai and Houhai, is one of the most extreme examples of such illicit home improvement. The construction began as early as 2010, although the courtyard was listed for protection as a historic structure, The Beijing Morning Post reported.
位于德胜门内大街93号的这处院落——其所在社区由西海和后海之间著名的老房子构成——就是这种非法翻修潮中最为极端的例子。据《北京晨报》报道，尽管93号院作为具有历史意义的建筑被列入了保护名单，但非法施工早在2010年就开始了。
“When the workers said they planned to dig several stories, we were quite alarmed,” one neighbor told the newspaper.
“里面的工人说是要往下挖好几层，听得我们心惊肉跳。”住在附近的一位居民告诉该报。