Beijing will undertake a major restructuring of the capital government as part of a broader plan to create a giant urban corridor in northern China, officials said Saturday.
官员在周六表示，北京将对首都市政府进行大规模重组，此举属于在北方建立一条城市走廊的宏伟计划的一部分。
At the end of a Communist Party meeting, city officials said on the evening news that hospitals, wholesale markets and some of the city’s administrative offices would move outside the city center. Beijing is to limit its population to 23 million, slightly more than its current estimated population of 22 million, and reduce the population of its six core districts by 15 percent. Many important services will move to suburbs or neighboring Hebei Province, officials said.
在晚间新闻中，市政府官员在一场党内会议的最后表示，医院、批发市场和北京市的部分行政机构将搬出市中心。北京将把人口控制在2300万，略高于当前的2200万。北京还将把城六区的常住人口减少15%。官员称，很多重要的服务设施都将搬至郊区或是邻近的河北省。
The centerpiece of the plan will be an administrative center in the Beijing suburb of Tongzhou, a historic move that reverses decades of urban planning that wedged government offices into the imperial city center. The move will begin by 2017 at the latest, the Beijing party secretary, Guo Jinlong, said in a speech.
该方案的核心是在北京的郊区通州建立一个行政中心。这一历史性举措一反过去几十年让政府机构往皇城中心挤的城市规划。北京市委书记郭金龙在发言中表示，计划最晚将于2017年开始实施。
In addition, city officials said, 50 city hospitals will begin cooperating with hospitals in Hebei Province, and some will move important facilities to surrounding communities. The neurological unit in Tiantan Hospital, for example, will move to another suburb, Fengtai, by 2017, they said.
此外，市政府官员表示，市内50家医院将开始同河北省的医院合作，其中一些将把重要设施搬至周边地区。比如，他们称天坛医院的神经科将在2017年以前搬至丰台区。
The city also said it would move 1,200 pollution-causing businesses out of the urban center.
北京市还表示将把1200家污染企业搬出市中心。
The moves are part of the creation of a major new urban area called Jing-Jin-Ji, after the three districts it encompasses (“Jing” for Beijing, “Jin” for the nearby port city of Tianjin, and “Ji” for the ancient name for Hebei Province). The city is trying to develop industries like tourism in poorer mountain areas surrounding the capital, with one area bidding to host the 2022 Winter Olympics.
这些举措是创建京津翼大型城市新区的一部分。北京市正试图在周边较贫困的山区发展旅游等产业，其中一个地区正在申办2022年的冬奥会。
The plan has been debated for decades, but only began to be implemented in recent months as part of an effort by President Xi Jinping to reform the Chinese economy. The idea is to reduce the sort of duplicative, polluting enterprises like coking and steel that dominate the greater Beijing area and other large urban centers, and in their place create a more modern economic structure.
该方案已讨论了数十年，但最近几个月才开始实施。这是国家主席习近平发动的经济改革行动的一部分。其目的是减少重复性的污染企业，如在北京地区占主导地位的焦化厂和钢铁厂，代之以更现代的经济结构。
Jing-Jin-Ji would have more than 100 million residents and be about the size of Kansas, with high-speed rail lines making most cities in the corridor reachable within an hour.
京津翼新区将囊括1亿多人口，面积与堪萨斯州大致相当，并将建成高铁线路，让人们在一个小时以内抵达该走廊内的多数城市。