What’s in an airport name? In Beijing, a debate has begun over the name of a planned new international airport, the capital’s second. The front-runners are Daxing, Jingji, Lixian, Yongding, Yufa and Zhuque, with the struggle between the two favorites, Daxing and Lixian, seeming to rest on this: What image does China want to present to the world? Money or virtue?
机场的名字应该包含什么内容？在北京，人们就一个即将开建的新国际机场的命名展开了争论，该机场将是北京的第二个国际机场。较受欢迎的名字有“大兴”、“京畿”、“礼贤”、“永定”、“榆垡”和“朱雀”。然而，人们围绕最受欢迎的“大兴”和“礼贤”进行的争论似乎以此为中心：中国希望向世界呈现怎样的形象？金钱还是美德？
As one debater said, an airport is a nation’s calling card.
正如一名争论者所说，机场是一个国家的名片。
For non-Chinese visitors taking a cab or asking directions, the hardest choice may be Zhuque — simply in terms of pronunciation. “Joo-chü-air” (yes, with a German-style umlaut) is about as close as it gets, making Daxing, the name of the area where most of the airport will be built, a walkover at “Da-sing.” But that means, roughly, “big prosperity,” a rather commercial image to present to the world, said Lian Yuming, a delegate to the Beijing People’s Political Consultative Conference, a government advisory body, who favors Lixian. That’s also a local place name, and very Confucian, meaning “courtesy and virtue.”
对于打车或者问路的外国游客来说，“朱雀”或许是最糟糕的选择——仅从发音来看便是如此。“Joo-chü-air”（是的，要带有德语那样的元音变音）几乎是外国人能做到的最标准发音，这会让发音为“Da-sing”的“大兴”——机场的大部分区域将位于此地——轻松取胜。但是，支持“礼贤”的北京市政协委员连玉明说，“大兴”基本意味着“伟大的繁荣”，向世界展现的是一个非常商业化的形象。“礼贤”也是当地的一个地名，非常具有儒家色彩，它的意思是“尊敬贤人”。
Whatever the final choice, the airport will be extremely large, with a major commercial district attached. Accounts have varied and the government has not unveiled detailed plans, but officials say it will quickly reach annual passenger turnover of 45 million, rising to 70 million. (It wasn’t immediately clear if that figure was for just terminal passengers or included transit passengers. In 2012, there were more than 80 million terminal passengers at Beijing Capital International Airport, compared with 95.5 million at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the busiest in the United States, according to figures from Heathrow outside London, which had 70 million terminal passengers.)
不论最终选定的名字是什么，这个机场总归会非常大，还将附有一个大型商业区。各家的报道各不相同，政府也尚未透露具体计划，但官员称，初期建设共有每年4500万人次的吞吐量，以后的旅客吞吐量能达到每年7000万人次左右。（目前尚不清楚这些数据指的仅仅是终端旅客，还是也包括过境旅客。根据伦敦郊外希思罗机场(Heathrow)提供的数据，2012年，北京首都国际机场的终端旅客超过了8000万人次，美国最繁忙的哈兹菲尔德-杰克逊国际机场(Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport)则为9550万人次，希思罗机场的终端旅客为7000万人次。）
Work on the new airport on the city’s southern outskirts, 48 kilometers, or about 30 miles, from Tiananmen Square, is set to begin this year. It is expected to open in 2018 and be among the world’s biggest, with half a dozen civilian runways — double the number at Beijing’s current international airport — and 100 million passengers a year by the time it’s operating at maximum capacity by 2040, according to Chinese officials and news reports.
这个新机场位于北京南郊，距离天安门广场48公里，按计划将于今年开工。据预计，机场将于2018年启用，成为世界上最大的机场之一，有六条民用飞机跑道，是北京现有国际机场的两倍。根据中国官员和新闻报道提供的信息，机场将于2040年达到最高吞吐能力，届时的客流量将达1亿人次。
Initial estimates by the government put the cost around 70 billion renminbi, or $11.5 billion, low by international standards but high for China, where costs are lower. The total infrastructure and engineering works will be significant, with new highways and railway lines, Chinahighway.com reported. The new Beijing airport is just one of many such projects around the country, with the Chinese government planning to expand more than 100 existing airports and build 82 entirely new ones. Total investment: about $43 billion.
根据政府的初步估计，机场造价约为115亿美元（约合700亿元人民币），这个造价低于国际标准，但却高于中国标准，因为中国的成本较低。中国公路网Chinahighway.com报道称，基础设施及相关工程规模庞大，包括新的高速路和铁路线。北京的新机场只是中国全国各地众多此类工程中的一个，因为中国政府计划扩建100多个现有机场，建设82个新机场。总投资额为430亿美元。
On Monday, Mr. Lian and another delegate to the Beijing People’s Political Consultative Conference took their preferences public, debating in front of Chinese reporters, The Beijing News reported.
《新京报》报道称，周一，连玉明和其他一些北京人民政治协商会议代表公开表明自己的倾向，在中国记者面前展开了辩论。
The name should be “grand, capital-city-like, simple and clear,” said Guo Geng, who is also a deputy director of the Beijing Junlu Ecological Testing Center, opting for Daxing. Mr. Guo’s workplace is in Daxing, a district of the Beijing municipality.
北京麋鹿生态实验中心副主任郭耕选择“大兴”，他表示机场名字应该“要大气、大度、简单、指向明确”。郭耕的工作地点就在大兴区。
That name is also historic, Mr. Guo said. Once, all Beijing — not just this district — was called Daxing Fu, or Daxing Prefecture. And it is “easy to find and easy to remember,” he said, holding up a placard he’d prepared on which was written, black on white: Beijing Daxing.
郭耕表示，这个名字还具有历史渊源。北京——不仅仅是这个区——曾经就叫大兴府。郭耕表示，“这个名字好记好找。”他手里拿着预先准备的海报，白纸黑字地写着：北京大兴。
For Mr. Lian, who is also the head of the Beijing City Development Research Academy, Daxing is too commercial-sounding. An airport name is a “national calling card” and should be cultured, he said.
北京国际城市发展研究院院长连玉明则认为“大兴”听起来太商业化。他表示，机场的名字是一张“国家名片”，应该体现文化底蕴。
He favors Lixian, the name of a county where the airport will be partly situated. Its meaning — “courtesy and virtue” — fits the international image China wants to project, he said.
他倾向于使用“礼贤”，这是机场部分区域所在县份的名字。他说，“礼贤”的意思是“尊敬贤人”，符合中国想向世界展示的形象。
Jingji, written 京畿, also a place name indicating the border area between Beijing and Hebei Province, is too difficult to write in Chinese, argued Mr. Guo. And Yongding, the name of a local branch of a river, is too vague and not really a place but more of a line, he said.
另一个选择“京畿”也是地名，指的是北京与河北省的交界处。郭耕表示，“畿”字很难写，作为河流支流名字的“永定”则太模糊，永定河是一条线，而非一个点。
For Mr. Lian, Yufa, a name that dates to the Yuan dynasty of the 13th century and means, roughly, “elm soil” for the trees that grew there, is historically too slight. As for Zhuque, that isn’t right at all, he said. The word represents the south of China and had been suggested to reflect the southern position of the airport relative to the capital city. But this is just wrong, he said, because, whichever way you look at it, Beijing is in the country’s north.
连玉明指出，“榆垡”一名据考证来源于13世纪的元代，大意就是指榆树生长的“榆树土壤”，但“榆垡”地名反映出的历史寓意比较浅显。他表示，“朱雀”根本不合适。朱雀代表南方，建议的理由是这个名字可以表示机场坐落于城南。 但连玉明表示，这个名字不合适，因为无论怎么看，北京都是北方城市。