When spring arrives in China, few things are as loathed as the fuzzy, flamboyant poplar trees.
当春天降临中国时，很少有什么东西像飘着飞絮的杨树那样招人讨厌。
They were planted by the millions in Chairman Mao’s day as a quick and cheap way to bring greenery to landscapes across China.
在毛主席时代，中国种植了数以百万计的杨树，觉得这是一种快捷、低廉的方式，可以给中国带去绿意。
Now they are everywhere, growing like mad and making a major nuisance of themselves. “We can’t control them any more,” said Che Shaochen, a senior researcher at the Beijing Forestry Sciences Institute.
现在它们无处不在，疯狂生长，成为了一大麻烦。北京林业科学研究院高级研究员车少琛（音）说，“我们控制不了它们了。”
Here’s the trouble: Every spring, the female poplar trees and their willow tree cousins blanket the streets of Chinese cities with cottonlike balls of fluff known as catkins. They get into everything, clogging car radiators and irritating people’s eyes. In some places they come down so thickly that they can disrupt traffic and even cause fires.
麻烦是这样的：每年春天，雌性杨树和它们的柳树表亲就会用棉花状的绒毛球铺满中国城市的街道。它们还会钻进一切东西，堵塞汽车散热器，并且会刺激的人的眼睛。有些地方的杨絮非常多，它们还会扰乱交通，甚至引发火灾。
In Beijing, the capital, which has one poplar tree for about every 10 people, the municipal government has begun to fight back with a campaign to eliminate the fuzz once and for all.
在首都北京，人和白杨的比例是10：1，市政府已经开始行动，要一劳永逸地消灭杨絮。
Officials have dispatched teams to hose down and prune thousands of trees and to inject a chemical known as birth control into trees to stop them from emitting the fuzz.
官员们派人对成千上万的树进行了修剪浇灌，并将一种避孕性质的化学物质注入树木，防止它们生出絮来。
The worst offenders have even been given sex-change operations of a sort: Arborists graft segments of male trees onto the female trunks.
飘絮最严重的树木甚至被做了变性手术：树木栽培专家将雄性树木的枝干嫁接到雌性树木上。
Residents of China’s smog-choked metropolises long ago grew accustomed to dealing with stubborn air pollutants. But in the springtime, nothing irks them quite like the catkins, especially when they drop uninvited into a steaming bowl of soup or suddenly swirl in the air, blocking visibility like a bad snowstorm.
中国大都市雾霾严重，居民长期以来已经习惯了顽固的空气污染物。但是在春天，最让他们烦恼的就是杨絮了，特别是当它们不请自来地落入一碗热气腾腾的汤，或者突然在空中旋转，好像严重的暴风雪那样妨碍可见度的时候。
Chen Jimen, 43, a street sweeper who works near the Forbidden City, estimates that during the peak season he sweeps up a whole trash can’s worth of catkins every day.
43岁的陈希门（音）在紫禁城附近工作，是一名街头清洁工，他估计在飘絮严重的时候，自己每天都能扫出整整一垃圾桶的絮状物。
Liu Yingjie, 41, a taxi driver, said he had mastered the routine of regularly blasting the catkins off his car’s engine. “They entirely block your line of sight,” he said.
41岁的出租车司机刘英杰（音）表示，他已经养成了定期从汽车引擎上清除杨絮的习惯。“它们还会阻挡视线，”他说。
Zhang Weiming, 27, a banker, said he stayed indoors when the catkins were in full force. “They get into your eyes and your mouth,” he said. “I never want to go outside.”
27岁的张伟明（音）在银行工作，他表示，飘絮太严重的时候他就待在室内。“它们会钻进你的眼睛和嘴巴，”他说。“我根本不想到室外去。”