Beijing has announced a proposal to reduce the importance of English on the college entrance examination taken by high school students. The two- or three-day exam, known as the gaokao, has a critical role in deciding if and where students will attend college, so any change in the scoring will have a significant impact on what students study beginning in elementary school.
北京市公布了一项减轻英语在高考中重要性的改革方案。持续2-3天的高考对中国高中毕业生能否进入大学或是上哪所大学至关重要，因此有关高考的任何变化都将对学生从小学开始的学习内容带来可观影响。
The proposal also calls for increasing the importance of the Chinese language on the exam. The changes reflect broader concerns that, while Chinese students put in vast amounts of time and effort studying English, few end up being proficient in the language. And while English-language ability helps in the job market, it isn’t critical to many students’ career paths. “The point of studying English is to communicate, not to take a test,” said China Youth Daily, a newspaper run by the Communist Youth League. “But most people don’t require English in their work, and spending so much time and energy on studying English is wasted.”
这一方案还呼吁增加汉语在高考中的重要性。这些变化反映了人们的一个普遍担心，中国学生虽然花大量的时间和精力学英语，但很少有人能熟练说英语。虽然英语能力在求职时会有所帮助，但这对很多学生的职业道路来说并不是最重要的。共青团下属的《中国青年报》称，“学英语的目的是交流，不是考试。但是大多数人的工作并不需要英语，花这么多时间和精力学英语是浪费。”
The proposed changes signaled that policy makers don’t want to cut English from the exam immediately, “but rather walk a road of gradual weakening, perhaps continually reducing its score value and, after conditions are ripe, eliminate English from the gaokao,” the newspaper said.
方案中的改革反映出政策制定者并不想立即取消英语考试，“而是走的一条逐步弱化之路，可能是先不断降低分值，然后在条件成熟时取消高考英语。”
The proposed exam changes come at a time of growing concern in China about the state of young people’s Chinese language abilities, particularly their ability to write characters. The advent of computer and mobile device inputs that rely on pinyin, a system of romanized spelling for Chinese, has cut into the frequency with which people write out characters by hand. Those doubts have been reinforced by the popularity of a spelling bee-type televised character-writing competition called the “Chinese Character Dictation Conference.”
这一改革方案公布之时，正值越来越多中国人开始担心年轻人的汉语能力之际，尤其是他们的汉字书写能力。电脑和移动设备都依赖使用罗马字母拼写的汉语拼音，使用这些设备减少了人们手写汉字的机会。这些怀疑得到了“中国汉字听写大会”的印证，这是一场流行的电视汉字听写竞赛，类似于美国的拼写竞赛。
The Beijing proposal only applies to students in the Chinese capital, but given the city’s influence on the rest of the nation it is likely to encourage other provinces and regions to consider modifying their tests. Already Shandong Province has decided to eliminate the listening comprehension section of the English portion of the exam, and Jiangsu Province has considered reducing the English component, the state-run China Daily newspaper reported. Any reduction in the importance of English in the gaokao could affect the huge industry of after-school English tutoring that has developed around China.
北京市的方案只适用于首都的学生，但鉴于北京市对全国各地的影响，这可能会鼓励其他省份和地区考虑改革高考。据官方的《中国日报》消息，山东省已经决定取消英语考试中的听力部分，江苏省也在考虑降低英语考试的分值。减少英语在高考中的重要性的任何举措，都可能影响在全国发展起来的巨大的课外英语辅导行业。
Under Beijing’s plan, the English section of the exam, which now counts for 150 points out of a total of 750, would be reduced to 100 points. The Chinese section would be raised from 150 to 180. Math would remain at 150. An additional comprehensive portion of the exam in which students chose either a social sciences or natural sciences track would be increased in value from 300 to 320 points. The changes, which have not been finalized and are now being offered for public comment, would be put in place beginning in 2016.
根据北京市改革方案，高考总分750分，目前英语考试占150分，这个分值将被降至100分。汉语考试的分值将从150分增加到180分。数学考试的分值保持不变。另一项综合考试的分值将从300分增加至320分，在这一考试中，学生可以选择社会科学或是自然科学。这些改革现正向社会征求意见，还未最后确定，确定后将从2016年开始实施。
Under the proposal, students would be allowed to take the English section of the test multiple times until they achieved a score they were satisfied with, similar to how students in the United States are allowed to retake the SAT or ACT exams. That represents a significant easing of the way at least this one portion of the gaokao would be administered. Traditionally, the exam, which was reintroduced in 1977 after it fell into disuse during the Cultural Revolution, has been a single-shot opportunity. The only way to retake the exam has been to repeat a year of high school, but generally failure means a student will forgo college. As a result the exam causes enormous stress for students and their families.
根据这一提议，学生将可以重新参加英语部分考试，直到取得满意的分数为止，类似美国学生可以多次参加SAT或者是ACT那样。实施后这意味着极大地减轻了至少是这一部分高考的负担。过去，自从在文化大革命期间被停的高考制度在1977年恢复以来，高考都只有一次机会。唯一一个可以再次参加的办法便是复读一年高三，但一般来说，高考失败意味着学生失去上大学的机会。因此这一考试制度给学生和家长带来了巨大的压力。