Around the world, divorce can make people poorer, as they sell their property. In Beijing, couples are divorcing — to become richer, by selling their property.
在全球各地，离婚都有可能使得人们因变卖房产而变穷。而在北京，夫妻们正在离婚，为的是通过变卖房产致富。
Applications for divorce in the capital soared by 41 percent in the first three quarters of 2013 over the same period last year, the city’s civil affairs bureau said Tuesday. The figure of nearly 40,000 couples initiating divorce — 39,075 to be exact — has surpassed the total figure for 2012, they said. Similar rises are happening in cities nationwide.
北京市民政局周二表示，2013年前三个季度，首都的离婚申请比去年同期飙升了41%。他们表示，提出离婚的夫妇共近4万对，确切地说是39075对，超过2012年的全年数字。全国各城市都出现了类似的离婚申请上升现象。
The reason? Tax regulations that took effect in March aimed at curbing property speculation and too-high prices mean, in essence, that a couple selling a second property pays capital gains tax of 20 percent. Singles selling their sole property are exempt, if they have owned it for five years or more. So a couple that divorces and registers their properties singly stands to save a lot of money for the family.
原因是什么？今年3月生效的“国五条”难辞其咎，该法规旨在遏制房地产炒作和过高房价，大致意味着一对夫妇如果卖掉第二套房产，就需要支付相当于卖房利润20%的税金。卖掉唯一房产的单身人士，如果拥有房产的时间达到了五年以上，就可免交这笔税款。所以，分别登记自有房产的离婚夫妻可望为家里省下一大笔钱。
Mr. and Ms. Mao, a Beijing married couple cited by the Guangzhou Daily, a government newspaper, wanted to sell their second apartment in Tongzhou, in the city’s eastern suburbs. They opted to divorce.
官方报纸《广州日报》援引北京毛氏夫妇的经历为例。他们想把北京东郊通州的第二套住房卖掉，于是选择了离婚。
“In this way the apartment we sold counted as belonging to one person, and we saved 300,000 renminbi,” or nearly $50,000, the newspaper quoted them as saying.In Shanghai, where property is also very expensive, municipal divorce offices have put up signs warning prospective divorcees: “Property is Risk, Divorce with Care!”
“这样我们出售的房子就算自己的唯一住房，可以节约近30万元费用，”该报援引夫妇俩的话说。30万人民币大致相当于5万美元。在房屋价格昂贵的上海，离婚登记处的工作人员甚至设立公告牌来警示打算离婚的人：“楼市有风险，离婚需谨慎。”
Attitudes toward divorce in China’s cities are becoming more liberal and rates are overall “rising stably,” wrote Zhou Junsheng, a commentator in The Beijing News. But many couples were exploiting the loophole and divorcing, he wrote.
评论员周俊生在《新京报》发文称，中国各城市对离婚的态度趋于宽容，总体说来，离婚率一直在“稳步攀升”。他写道，不过，许多夫妇离婚是为了利用前述漏洞。
Li Ziwei, of the Beijing Marriage and Family Building Association, attributed the “fast, unusual” rise this year to couples’ determination to avoid the taxes contained in the rules, dubbed the “National Five Regulations.”
北京市婚姻家庭建设协会常务副会长李紫薇认为，已婚人士决意规避号称“国五条”的制度规定的税费，导致了今年离婚数量“异乎常规地快速增长”。
Still, officials were not required to ask about the reasons for a couple’s divorce, Ms. Li said. That would constitute interference with their freedom to divorce, she said in comments carried widely in Chinese media.
但李紫薇说，工作人员没有过问离婚原因的责任。她在中国媒体广泛刊登的评论中说，那样做会干涉公民的离婚自由。