BEIJING — Sooty skies are not the only reliable indicator that winter has finally descended on the Chinese capital. Vendors selling roasted sweet potatoes occupy street corners with their repurposed oil-drum ovens. To ward off the sniffles, Beijing cabdrivers nibble on cloves of raw garlic, making taxi rides especially trying.
北京——在中国的首都，飘散着煤烟的天空并不是昭示着冬天终于到来的唯一可靠信号。卖烤地瓜的小贩推着用油桶改造的炉子占据了街角；为了预防感冒，北京的出租车司机吃起了生的蒜瓣，这可让乘车的时光相当难熬。
Then there are the piles of cabbage that accrue in communal courtyards, high-rise hallways and window ledges across the city.
还有在全城各处的公共院落、高层建筑的走廊，以及窗沿上囤积着的大白菜。
The vegetal escarpments sometimes tower waist-high in public stairwells, competing for space with rusting bicycles and neatly stacked piles of the honeycomb coal briquettes that still heat countless homes here.
公共楼道里的大白菜有时堆得齐腰高，它们和生锈的自行车，以及堆放整齐的蜂窝煤争夺着地盘。在这里，仍有大量家庭靠蜂窝煤来取暖。
“When you see a mound of cabbage outside your front door, you feel confident that you won’t starve to death during the winter,” said Wang Jianrong, 62, a retired government worker standing proudly beside a heap of white-and-jade roughage.
现年62岁的退休政府工作人员王建荣（音译）骄傲地站在一堆半白半绿、粗纤维丰富的大白菜旁说，“家门口堆着一摞大白菜，就知道一冬天都饿不死啦。”
In a city crowded with BMWs, upscale malls and produce-packed supermarkets, the stockpiling of cabbage is a vestigial impulse that speaks to an era of scarcity that still haunts Chinese of a certain age.
在这个宝马汽车满街跑，高端商场林立，超市里农产品琳琅满目的城市，储存大白菜是物质匮乏的时代残留的一种冲动，那个时代仍然是许多特定年纪的中国人挥之不去的记忆。
Older Beijingers vividly recall the hungry winters of the 1950s and ’60s, especially after Mao Zedong’s disastrous attempt to industrialize the nation during the Great Leap Forward, when state-rationed turnips, leeks and cabbage sustained millions. “Back when I was a kid, you never saw a fat person,” said Yang Renzhi, 60, a retired math teacher who was buying three dozen heads for her parents.
上了岁数的北京人仍然清晰地记得上世纪50、60年代饥饿的寒冬，尤其是毛泽东在大跃进时进行灾难性的工业化尝试之后的日子，数百万人靠国家定量配给的萝卜、大葱和大白菜才活下来。现年60岁的杨仁芝（音译）说，“我小的时候，从来没人见过胖人。”杨仁芝是一名退休的数学教师，正在为父母购买30多棵白菜。
The hoarding begins in earnest each November, when farmers from the outskirts of the capital deliver tons of newly harvested cabbage to city sidewalks for a state-sanctioned sale. The green mountains draw armies of gray-haired bargain hunters, who squeeze and prod the vegetables with the intensity of a wizened diamond trader.
每年11月，当北京郊区的农民们经过政府批准，把成吨新收获的大白菜送到城市里的马路边销售时，人们储存大白菜的的行动就如火如荼地开始了。大白菜堆成的绿色小山吸引了大量精打细算的老人，他们对着大白菜又挤又戳，认真程度就像是一群满脸皱纹的钻石交易商。
“Give me 200 jin of your crispest heads,” Zhang Libao, a 72-year-old former factory worker, barked one recent morning as Li Xueqing, a cabbage grower, loaded up the equivalent of 220 pounds on the back of a flatbed tricycle.
最近一天的早上，72岁的退休工人张立宝（音译）大声叫道，“给我来200斤最脆生的。”与此同时，菜农李学庆（音译）从一个平板三轮车上，卸下了大约相当于220磅的大白菜。
Mr. Li, 46, a no-nonsense man who has been growing cabbage for two decades and sleeps on the sidewalk beside his wares, said he sold just under a ton each day during the capital’s two-week run on cabbage.
今年46岁的李学庆是一个干脆利落的人，他种白菜已经20年了，就睡在摆着白菜的人行道上。他说，在北京购买冬储大白菜最火爆的两周时间里，他每天能卖出将近一吨白菜。
But he bemoaned an inexorable decline in business. He noted that the average purchase was less than 100 pounds, down from 500 pounds in the early 1980s, when market changes began transforming the nation’s communal agriculture system, making food supplies more plentiful.
不过，他还是抱怨道，生意正在不可避免地走下坡路。他说，现在每位顾客平均购买不到100斤，而上世纪80年代初，这个数字是500斤。当时，中国的市场化改革，转变了公社化的农业生产体制，粮食供应变得更加充足。
Mr. Li and other sellers say chronically low prices — the result of modern farming practices and overplanting — have made the decline in winter stockpiling more painful. Although 30 percent higher than last year, according to Beijing Youth Daily, a state-run newspaper, the seasonal price of cabbage is still a meager 8 cents a pound. “Once it starts snowing, it could triple,” he said.
李学庆和其他商贩说，由于长期价格低廉——这是现代农业操作和过度种植的后果——冬储菜销量下降变得更加难以承受。官方媒体《北京青年报》报道，尽管白菜价格比去年高了30%，但仍然很便宜，一斤只有6毛钱。他说，“一开始下雪，价格就能涨两倍。”
Even as they scoff at the hoarding, younger Beijingers are often forced to indulge their elders, many of whom rarely get through their cabbage reserves and are forced to throw out the moldering, mushy remains come spring.
虽然年轻一些的北京人对储藏大白菜的行为不屑一顾，但是他们也不得不由着老人。许多老人根本吃不完这些大白菜，不得不在开春时扔掉已经发霉、烂成泥的白菜。
“My 90-year-old mother sent me out today to see if the cabbage is good and cheap,” said a 68-year-old woman who would give only her last name, Xia. “She won’t stop sending me out until we have bought enough. She can’t live without it.”
一位68岁只透露自己姓夏的女士说，“我90岁的妈今天派我来看看白菜好不好、便不便宜。只要还没买够，她就总是让我出来买。她没有白菜就活不了。”
Mrs. Xia sighed when describing her family’s annual cabbage-storing ritual. To protect them from rot, the heads are individually wrapped in newspaper. Every two weeks, she checks the cache for signs of decay and reshuffles the pile, moving those on the bottom to the top.
说起家里每年储藏大白菜的做法时，夏女士叹了一口气。为了防止白菜烂掉，这些白菜被一棵一棵地用报纸包起来。她每两周会检查一次，看看是否有腐烂的迹象，然后重新摆放，把底下的菜搬到上面。
But it would be unfair to view the annual hunt for cheap cabbage as simply a hard-wired, existential quest for sustenance.
但是，如果把每年抢购便宜白菜的行为，只是看做内心深处寻找食物的生存冲动，恐怕并不公平。
As they circled Mr. Li’s beauties, buyers shared storage tips (drape them in old blankets) and traded recipes to ensure relatives maintained their ardor for a vegetable that traditionalists insist is the key to a healthy heart.
买主们围在李学庆的白菜周围，分享着储藏的经验（用旧毯子盖上）；也交流着菜谱，为的是确保亲戚们能保持对这种蔬菜的热情——一些观念传统的人认为，大白菜有益心脏健康。
“Who can resist stir-fried cabbage, with eggs, pork and a dash of vinegar and hot pepper?” one retired engineer exclaimed with relish.
一个退休的工程师十分享受地说，“炒白菜里加上鸡蛋、肉片，再加上一点醋和辣椒，这谁能不爱吃呢？”
A woman stepped forward to boast that she kept a file of 500 cabbage dishes in her head. “In soups, in dumplings, you name it: Cabbage goes with everything,” she said.
一名女士上前夸口道，自己知道五百种白菜的做法。她说，“做汤、包饺子，你尽管说：白菜怎么做都好吃。”
But Ms. Yang, the retired math teacher, said the cabbage hoarding was more than just about food.
但是退休的数学教师杨仁芝说，储藏大白菜的意义不仅在于吃。
“It’s about nostalgia for simpler time, perhaps one that these old people romanticize,” she said, tying cabbage heads to her bike rack. “When my father sees cabbage piled on our 16th-floor balcony, he smiles and knows everything is going to be O.K.”
她一边把大白菜往车架上绑，一边说，“这是对那个更简朴的时代的怀念，也许老人们把那个时代浪漫化了。每当我父亲看到我们16层的阳台上堆着的大白菜，他会露出笑容，知道一切都会好的。”