The Beijing police have helpfully offered women an online lecture on driving. Under the rubric “Women Drivers Please Take Care to Avoid These Mistakes,” the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau generously listed tips on its official Sina Weibo page on Tuesday for confused women who somehow find themselves behind the wheel.
北京警方热心地为女性提供了一个网络驾驶讲座。周二，在“女司机请注意，驾驶错误要避免”的标题下，北京市公安局在自己的新浪官方微博页面上大方地列出了一些建议，给担负司机之责的困惑女性提供指引。
“Some women drivers lack a sense of direction. They often can’t decide which way to go when they drive,” reads one. “Once they realize their mistake, it’s too late, and they cause accidents by spinning the steering wheel in panic.”
“有些女司机缺乏方向感，在驾车的过程中经常对于自己该走哪条路犹豫不决，”其中一条写道，“发现自己走错路线需要变更时已经太晚了，慌乱打方向盘便容易导致交通事故。”
Lacking a sense of direction is only one of the six shortcomings of women drivers, according to the Beijing police. The others are panicking after an accident, wearing high heels while driving, leaving the hand brake on, struggling to control the brake and accelerator pedals, and “always forgetting to switch gears.”
北京警方称，不记路只是女司机的六个问题之一。其他问题分别是遇到事故易慌张、穿高跟鞋驾驶、忘记放手刹、猛踩刹车油门以及“永不换挡”。
This well-intentioned advice is infused with bafflement at women’s inability to drive.“On their own,” some women “can’t even find places they’ve been to multiple times,” reads the section under “lacking a sense of direction.”
这些出于好意的建议充满了对于女性欠缺驾驶能力的困惑感。建议中“不记路”的部分说，有些女性“去过几次的地方，自己开车时还是找不到”。
The police also try to explain the complex inner workings of the modern automobile.
警方还试图解释现代汽车复杂的内部工作原理。
“When the hand brake is left on, the car uses up more energy trying to move forward. This greatly increases gas consumption,” it says under “forgetting to release the hand brake.”
“忘记放手刹”的部分说，“汽车行驶面对着刹车阻力，需要消耗更多能量完成前进，会大大增加油耗。”
Two recent incidents involving women drivers may have prompted the Beijing police to extend a helping hand to this vulnerable group. According to the Public Security Bureau’s Weibo page, a woman who got out of her car to check on a pedestrian she had accidentally hit had her wallet stolen from the driver’s seat. She had neglected to lock the door after getting out.
最近发生的两起事故都涉及女司机，这也许是促使北京警方向这个弱势群体伸出援手的原因，据北京市公安局的微博透露，一名女性在不小心撞到行人后下车查看对方伤势，放在驾驶座上的钱包却被人趁机偷走，因为她下车时忘了关车门。
“Women drivers are prone to panic after an accident. They usually draw a complete mental blank, providing opportunities for criminals,” the police warn.
警方警告称，“女司机在遇到事故后容易紧张惊慌，脑子里通常一片空白，这时便容易让坏人有可乘之机。”
In the other incident, a woman rammed her car into the back of a truck at a red light because her high heel got stuck between the pedals.
在另一起事故中，一名女性驾车撞上了前面等红灯的小货车，原因是她的高跟鞋被刹车踏板卡住了。
“How did this happen on such a wide road with so little traffic?” marveled the investigating officer, according to a report on the accident posted by the Beijing police.
根据北京警方公布的事故报告，处理事故的交警对此有点纳闷，“路很宽，这个时间段车又少，怎么会追尾呢？”
However, the tips the police deem so desperately needed have not been universally well received. Within half an hour of their posting, dozens of protests appeared online, from men and women alike.
然而，警方认为女司机急需了解的小窍门并没有得到一致的认可。他们发帖后不到半个小时，数十条抗议帖就出现在了网上，发帖者既有男性，也有女性。
“There are only new and old drivers! No men and women drivers!” reads one comment.
一条评论写道，“司机只有新老之分！没有男女之分！”