SEPANG, Malaysia — As the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner spread out across an expanded search area nearly the size of the continental United States, the Chinese government said on Tuesday that it had ruled out the possibility that any of the Chinese citizens on the plane — about two-thirds of the 227 passengers — were terrorists or who might have tried to hijack or destroy the plane.
马来西亚雪邦——随着对失踪马航班机的搜寻工作扩展到几乎相当于美国大陆面积的区域，中国政府于周二称，已经排除了机上任何中国公民是恐怖分子或试图劫持或摧毁飞机的可能性，这架飞机上的227名乘客中，有约三分之二是中国公民。
Searching one possible flight path, Australia said it would focus its efforts in a specific stretch of the southern Indian Ocean, using computer models of the plane’s possible flight path that take into account undisclosed satellite data, wind conditions and ocean currents and some assumptions about how fast it was flying and how much fuel it had left.
澳大利亚在对该飞机的一个可能飞行航线展开搜索，并称将把搜索的重点放在南印度洋的一个特定区域内，还将使用计算机模型来计算这架飞机可能的飞行航线，模型将把未公开的卫星数据、风力情况、洋流，以及有关飞机当时的飞行速度及所剩油量的假设考虑进去。
“What we’re doing is producing our best estimate of the most likely place to search, but I would hasten to add it is very far from precise,” said John Young, general manager for the Australian Maritime Safety Authority’s emergency response division. “Every attempt will be made to further refine the search area,” Mr. Young told reporters at a news conference in Canberra on Tuesday.
澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)应急响应部门负责人约翰·扬(John Young)说，“我们现在正在做的是，对最有可能找到飞机的搜寻区域作出最佳估计，但我必须补充一点，这种估计离精确还差得很远。”扬于周二在堪培拉的一次记者会上说，“我们会做出各种努力，来进一步缩小搜索范围。”
“China has conducted a thorough investigation, and to date we have not found any signs that any passengers onboard the plane participated in destruction or terror attacks,” Mr. Huang said at a news briefing for Chinese reporters, according to a summary published online by a state-run newspaper, The People’s Daily.
根据国家媒体《人民日报》网上发布的一篇简讯，黄惠康在一次新闻发布会上对中国记者说，“中方通过对152名中国大陆乘客进行详细的背景调查，至今没有证据显示他们有涉嫌恐怖活动和其他破坏MH370航班飞机的行为。”
“We can say that we have generally ruled out the possibility of Chinese passengers engaging in destruction or a terrorist attack,” Mr. Huang was quoted as saying.
该报援引黄惠康的话说，“基本可以排除中国乘客的嫌疑。”
Mr. Huang’s announcement seemed likely to increase the pressure on investigators to determine whether the pilot or co-pilot of the missing jet, both Malaysians, or anyone else onboard was involved in its disappearance. Officials have said that the plane’s abrupt deviation from its normal flight path on March 8 most likely involved deliberate intervention by an experienced aviator, making the two men assigned to the cockpit — Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and his junior officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27 — focal points of attention.
黄惠康的宣布，似乎会给调查人员增加压力，他们需要确定这架飞机的马来西亚籍机长和副驾驶、或飞机上的其他人，是否与飞机的失踪有关。官员称，这架飞机3月8日突然偏离正常的飞行航线，最大的可能是一位经验丰富的飞行员蓄意操作的结果，这让驾驶室中的两个人，53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)、和27岁的副驾驶法利克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)，成为人们关注的焦点。
Breaking from its usual reluctance to criticize friendly neighbors, the Chinese government has chided the Malaysian authorities and demanded more prompt and more accurate information about the investigation. “Currently, there’s no lack of information,” Mr. Huang, the ambassador, said. “The main problem we confront is chaotic information, with all manner of speculation, even rumors, filling the heavens. It makes it impossible to think.”
一改以往不愿批评友好邻邦的态度，中国政府对马来西亚当局提出指责，并要求其发布更及时、更准确的调查信息。黄惠康大使说，“现在的信息并不缺乏，但面临的问题是信息的混乱。各种猜测和谣言满天飞，给人无所适从的感觉。”
Hishammuddin Hussein, the Malaysian defense minister and acting transportation minister, said that despite revisions to the details of the chronology, investigators continued to think that the plane probably went off course because of something someone did intentionally, rather than mechanical failure or an accident.
马来西亚国防部长兼代理交通部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)说，尽管修改了事情发生时间的细节，但调查人员依然认为，这架飞机偏离航线很可能是因为有人故意做了某件事，而不是由于机械故障，或是一次事故。
“It has not changed our belief, as stated, that up until the point which it left primary radar coverage, the aircraft’s movements were consistent with deliberate action by someone on the plane,” Mr. Hishammuddin said at a news conference.
希沙姆丁在一次新闻发布会上说，“这并没有改变我们原来的看法，那就是，直到飞出初级雷达覆盖区之前，这架飞机的动作与机上某人的有意操作一致。”
When the chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, was asked about the possibility that the turn off course was programmed by someone in the cockpit, he did not give a definitive answer. “As far as we’re concerned, the aircraft was programmed to fly to Beijing,” he said. “Once you’re in the aircraft, anything is possible.”
当马航首席执行官阿迈德·焦哈里·叶哈亚(Ahmad Jauhari Yahya)被问及飞机掉头的动作是否有可能是有人在驾驶室改变飞行程序的结果时，他没有给出确定的回答。他说，“就我们所知，这架飞机的飞行程序是要飞往北京的。一旦上了飞机，一切都有可能。”
A satellite over the Indian Ocean received a final transmission from an automatic data system on the plane hours after the last radio or radar contact, leading investigators to deduce that the plane sent it from somewhere along one of two long, arcing corridors that together encompass 2.24 million square nautical miles, or 2.97 million square miles, Mr. Hishammuddin said. 
印度洋上空的一颗卫星收到了这架飞机上一个自动数据系统最后发送的信号，那是在飞机失去无线电或雷达联系的好几个小时之后，调查人员由此推断，飞机发出该信号的地点位于两个狭长的弧形走廊区域内，这两片区域的总面积约有224万平方海里，希沙姆丁说。
One of the two arcs reaches from northern Laos to Central Asia. The plane would be at the Laotian end of the arc if it traveled at the slow end of its possible speed, or in Kazakhstan near the Caspian Sea if it traveled at top speed. Any speed in between would have put the plane somewhere in western or southwestern China, including remote, mountainous terrain in Tibet.
其中一个弧形区域从老挝北部延伸至中亚地区。这架飞机如果以最慢的速度飞行，可能会在这个弧形带的老挝一段，如果以最快速度飞行的话，可能会在哈萨克斯坦接近里海的地方。如果飞行速度在最快与最慢之间的话，则可能会在中国西部或西南部的某个地方，其中包括偏远的西藏山区。
However, China has given no indication that its radar picked up any signs of the plane. Even so, Mr. Huang said, the Chinese authorities have begun searching the large section of the northern corridor that crosses the nation’s land territory. The Chinese Navy will also send ships to search the seas west of India’s Andaman Islands in the Bay of Bengal and to the seas southwest of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, a spokesman for the navy said, according to the China News Service, a state-run agency.
然而，中国还未表示其雷达曾接收到这架飞机的任何迹象。即便如此，黄惠康说，中国政府已经开始对跨越中国陆地大范围的北部弧形区域进行搜索。据中国国家通讯社中新社报道，一名海军发言人说，中国海军也将派船只，前往孟加拉湾的印度安达曼群岛以西海域、以及印度尼西亚苏门答腊岛西南海域进行搜索。
If the plane had instead traveled to the southern arc, it may have been anywhere from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean, west of Australia, when it was last in contact with a satellite.
如果这架飞机飞往了南部的弧形区域的话，当它最后一次与卫星联系时，可能在从印度尼西亚到澳大利亚以西的南印度洋的任何地方。