If you thought marrying in Manhattan was expensive, try Beijing. A village official in the city’s outskirts recently spent more than 1.6 million renminbi, about $260,000, on his son’s wedding, local media reported. But such extravagance by a government employee who is not highly paid has drawn suspicion: Where did he get the money?
如果你认为在曼哈顿结婚费用会非常高，试试在北京结婚吧。据北京媒体报道，北京郊区的一名村官最近花费了超过160万元人民币（约合26万美元）为儿子举办婚礼。然而，一个工资不高的政府雇员举办如此奢侈铺张的婚宴的行为引发了怀疑：他哪来这么多钱？
The three-day festivities in early October, hosted by Ma Linxiang, the deputy head of the Qingheying village committee in the northeastern suburbs of Beijing, is now under intense scrutiny from both ordinary people and, reportedly, the anticorruption authorities. Questions include:
10月初，北京东北郊清河营村的村委会副主任马林祥为儿子举办了为期三天的婚宴。这场婚宴受到了普通民众的密切关注，据说还引起了反腐机构的注意。问题包括：
How did Mr. Ma pay for the wedding, which included two days of banqueting in the village with over 200 tables and a third day at the National Convention Center -- also known as the Olympic Green Convention Center for its location at the site of the 2008 Olympic Games?
马林祥是如何支付这些婚宴费用的呢？婚宴头两天在村里设宴超过200桌，第三天在国际会议中心设宴。由于位于2008年奥运会举办场地，该中心还被称为奥林匹克公园会议中心。
Was Mr. Ma, 48, subsequently fired, or did he quit? Was his removal undertaken legally?
48岁的马林祥随后去职，他是遭到了开除，还是自己辞职的呢？相关部门免除他职位的举动合法吗？
What is going on in the village, which sits on valuable land? What about reports of irregular sales of state-subsidized housing, including to relatives of officials who did not qualify?
这个拥有宝贵土地的村庄现状如何？有关违规销售保障性住房——包括向不具备购买资格的官员亲属出售住房的报道是怎么回事？
And how the village was paid to take dirt dug up from the Olympics site, but when a villager refused to allow his fish pond to be filled in he was attacked by men with knives? And when he reported the incident, the police paid him 20,000 renminbi?
该村庄是如何通过挖掘该奥运场所的泥土获利的呢？当一名村民拒绝填塞鱼塘的时候，他为何会受到持刀男子的袭击呢？这名村民报案之时，警方为何给他两万元人民币呢？
All these questions were posed on Tuesday in a detailed report by Legal Weekly, a newspaper of the powerful Political and Legal Affairs Commission of the Communist Party Central Committee.
《法治周末》在周二发表的详细报道中提出了上述所有问题，《法治周末》是权势强大的中共中央委员会政法委员会的报纸。
Telephone calls to the village committee on Wednesday seeking comment from Mr. Ma and others were not answered, or were answered by someone who hung up, or were answered by someone who said no one in the building could take questions.
周三，记者给村委会打电话寻求马林祥和其他人置评，但电话要么无人应答，要么被立即挂断，要么就得到了没人能回答问题的答复。
The issue touches on a political hot spot in the one-party state: the abuse by officials of their positions to parlay power into wealth.
这个问题触及了这个一党制国家的一个政治热点：官员滥用职权，利用权力获得财富。
As the Southern Weekly newspaper wrote in 2011, even “small officials” can acquire “gigantic wealth,” if their business and political networks are large and deep enough.
就像《南方周末》2011年报道的那样，如果商业及政治关系网足够大，关系足够深，甚至连“小官”都能获得“巨额财富”。
It examined the cases of 17 junior officials at the section level or lower who since 2001 had been sentenced for corruption in cases involving more than 10 million renminbi, or even tens of millions. Perhaps significantly, it noted that 13 cases occurred after 2008, the year of the Beijing Olympics and the year the Chinese government pumped several trillion renminbi into the economy, including to local governments, to ward off the effects of the global financial meltdown that began in the United States.
《南方周末》查看了自2001年以来因贪污被判刑的17名地方官员或更低级别的官员的案件，这些案件涉案金额都超过1000万元人民币，有的甚至达到数千万。或许值得注意的是，该报纸指出，其中有13起案件发生在北京举办奥运会的2008年之后，那一年，为了抵御源于美国的全球金融危机，中国政府投资数万亿元人民币发展经济，其中包括给予地方政府的拨款。
To be sure, lavish weddings in China are not unusual. Last year, a coal baron from Shanxi Province held a wedding for his daughter on the southern island-province of Hainan costing 70 million renminbi, according to widespread news reports. The coal executive, Xing Libin, chartered three airplanes to transport guests to the event, and red-and-white Ferraris stood outside the venue, the reports said. A major cost at high-end weddings in China are the emcee and the often well-known entertainers hired to sing.
的确，豪华婚礼在中国并不少见。据媒体广泛报道，去年，山西省的一个煤老板花7000万元人民币给自己女儿在中国南部的海岛省份海南举办了一场婚礼。这个煤老板名叫邢利斌，据报道，他包下三架飞机把客人接到婚礼现场，现场外还停着多辆红白相间的法拉利(Ferrari)。在中国，高规格婚礼的一项主要支出是邀请司仪和著名艺人唱歌的费用。
That ostentatious celebration also drew condemnation from ordinary people and the media. But the wedding in Qingheying, coming amid a major government campaign against corruption, is subject to closer scrutiny since it involved an official.
这种铺张庆典也引来了普通百姓和媒体的批评。但是，政府此时正在大力惩治腐败，而清河营的婚礼涉及官员，受到了更严格的审查。
Mr. Ma has been widely quoted in local media as saying his new in-laws are rich merchants from Nantong in Jiangsu Province, and that money for the festivities in the convention center came from them. He just paid for the banqueting in the village, he said — about 200,000 renminbi.
当地媒体普遍在报道中引用马林祥的话说，他的新亲家是江苏南通的富商，用于国家会议中心宴会的钱都是他们出的。他说，他只付了村里流水席的账，花了大约20万人民币。
"Where does he get his 'face' if his new in-laws paid for the wedding?" Legal Weekly quoted several critical villagers as asking, adding that they declined to be identified.
“如果他儿子的婚礼费用让亲家出，他的面子往哪里搁”？《法治周末》引用几名持批评态度的村民的话说，同时补充说，这些村民要求匿名。
Legal Weekly wrote that, days after the wedding as reports spread, the local branch of the Commission for Discipline Inspection, the party’s antigraft body, said that an initial inquiry had not turned up any misuse of state funds, but that it was continuing its investigation.
《法治周末》写道，婚礼几天之后，随着报道的广泛传播，中国共产党反贪机构纪委在当地的分支机构称，经初步调查，并未发现挪用公款的现象，但调查仍在继续进行。
Then Legal Daily, a sister publication, reported Mr. Ma as saying that he had been told he would be dismissed from his position and that he had already written a resignation letter.
之后，《法治周末》的姊妹报刊《法制日报》报道，马林祥称自己已接到免职通知，而他也已经写了辞职信。
Legal Weekly quoted villagers as saying that Mr. Ma and his family drove expensive cars, including a Mercedes-Benz SUV, and owned property in nearby, up-scale villa communities.
《法治周末》援引村民的话说，马林祥和他的家人有好几辆豪车，包括一辆梅赛德斯-奔驰SUV(Mercedes-Benz SUV)，而且还在附近的高级别墅区拥有房产。
By Tuesday, the newspaper said, it had not been able to contact Mr. Ma. It cited an Oct. 8 statement from him to the media: “My income is all legal. I’m not afraid of an investigation by the organization,” using common shorthand to refer to the Communist Party.
该报纸周二报道称无法联系到马林祥，并引用了马林祥在10月8日接受媒体采访时所说的话：“自己的收入都是合法的，不怕组织调查。”