A man holding what appeared to be a three-foot-long sword stabbed a Chinese woman and her French husband outside a Uniqlo clothing store in Beijing’s upscale shopping and entertainment district of Sanlitun on Thursday, the police said. Both were taken to a hospital, where the woman died, the police said on their official Weibo account.
据警方消息，一名手持约一米长刀具的人周四在北京高档购物娱乐区三里屯的优衣库(Uniqlo)外袭击了一名中国女子及其法国籍配偶。警方在其官方微博上透露，二人均被送进医院，女子不治身亡。
Officials at the French Embassy identified the male victim as a French citizen and the woman as Chinese, and said they were married. They declined to give further details, citing privacy concerns.
法国大使馆官员确认男性受害者为法国公民，而该女子为中国人，表示二人是夫妻关系。出于对隐私的保护，他们拒绝透露更多细节。
The police said they had arrested the assailant, whom they identified as a 25-year-old man with the surname Gao from the city of Tonghua in the northeastern province of Jilin. They said they had determined “no reason” for the attack, which took place just before the lunch hour, when the area is typically crowded with office workers and shoppers.
警方说他们已近逮捕了行凶者、来自中国东北吉林省通化市25岁的高某。警方表示犯案动机尚不明确，事件发生在午餐时间前不久，当时案发地如往常一样挤满了办公室职员和逛街的人。
Images on social media and a cellphone video showed a woman lying in a pool of blood about 60 feet in front of the store, her husband trying to stanch the bleeding. The video shows the attacker, in black trousers and a long-sleeve white shirt, milling about outside the nearby Uniqlo store as the woman lay on the ground and some people walked by, apparently nonchalantly.
社交网站上的图片和一段手机视频显示，优衣库门前约20米处，一名女子倒在血泊中，她丈夫在试图帮她止血。视频中行凶者身穿黑色裤子和白色长袖衬衫，当着躺倒在地的受伤女子和许多过路人的面在优衣库附近来回走动，显得若无其事。
According to witnesses, after the attacker stabbed the couple, he entered the store, took a mannequin from its display window, pulled it out by the front door and threw it to the ground, as pedestrians and shoppers dodged in fear.
据目击者说，行凶者捅伤夫妻二人后走进那家商店，从橱窗里拖出一个模特，出大门后摔在地上，行人与购物者纷纷躲避。
“And then he was just standing there holding the sword,” said one witness, a young man who was running errands in the area.
“然后他就拿着刀站在那里，”一名正在那附近办事的年轻目击者称。
An employee at a nearby Adidas store said that after the attacker re-emerged from Uniqlo, nearby shops immediately locked their doors to protect staff members and customers. The attacker stood alone on the open space between the stores and the street, pacing back and forth, sword in hand.
附近阿迪达斯(Adidas)店的员工说，行凶者从优衣库出来后，附近商店立刻锁上了各自大门，以保护员工和顾客。行凶者独自站在商店和街道之间的开放地区，手持刀具，来回走动。
The Adidas employee said everyone in the shop held their breath and waited “quite a while” for the police to arrive. When the assailant saw the police approaching, he tossed his sword to the ground and gave himself up, the employee said.
阿迪达斯员工说，店里的每个人都屏住呼吸，等了“很长一会儿”，警察才到。行凶者看到警方到来，就把他的刀具扔在地上，把自己交给了警方，员工说道。
Two years ago, a man with a knife stabbed and killed two shoppers, including a foreign woman, at the Chaoyang Joy City mall in Beijing. A local magazine identified her as an American citizen.
两年前，一人持刀在北京朝阳北路大悦城捅死了两名购物者，其中包括一名外国女士。当地一家杂志称，该外国女士为美国公民。
In 2012, Howard Thomas Mills, also an American, was stabbed and killed by a man in another crowded shopping district of Beijing.
2012年，同样是美国公民的霍华德·托马斯·米尔斯(Howard Thomas Mills)在北京另一个繁忙购物区被人捅死。
Last month, the same Uniqlo store was involved in a scandal when a video of a couple having sex in a dressing room was uploaded to the Internet, where it went viral. The Beijing police detained at least four people over the episode, and the store became a pilgrimage site for selfie takers.
上个月，门前发生凶案的优衣库刚刚卷入丑闻，一段试衣间性爱视频被上传至网络并迅速传播。北京警方因此拘留了至少四人，该商店也成了众人前去自拍的圣地。
By late Thursday afternoon, a new stream of passers-by were taking selfies at the site and photographing the store.
截至周四下午，又有一批人前往商店自拍或对着优衣库拍照。