When I moved to Beijing from New York in February to study Chinese, a question began to haunt me: Could Beijing’s air in 2013 be more dangerous than the toxic brew produced by the 9/11 attacks on New York City’s World Trade Center, which hung over Lower Manhattan for months, sickening thousands of firefighters, recovery workers, and ordinary New York residents? 
今年2月，为了学习汉语，我从纽约搬到了北京。然后，一个问题开始困扰我：北京2013年的空气会比纽约世贸中心(World Trade Center)经过“9·11”袭击后产生的有毒空气更危险吗？当时，曼哈顿下城被这种空气笼罩了几个月，成千上万名消防员、现场清理人员和普通纽约市民因此患病。
Every morning, I would wake up in my apartment in central Beijing barely able to see the buildings across the street. Then, I would check online for postings from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, which uses a device on its roof to measure air quality each hour of the day. Despite intensifying media coverage of Beijing’s bad air—especially around the “airpocalypse” in January, when pollution levels in Beijing climbed well above the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) upper threshold for air that is hazardous even to healthy adults—I often found myself at pains to express to friends just how alarmed I was by the air outside my window. My friends in the U.S. could not seem to fathom it and my Beijing friends seemed used to it, even numb.
每天早上，在位于北京市中心的公寓中醒来时，我都几乎无法看清街对面的建筑。然后，我会上网查看美国驻华大使馆发布的讯息。大使馆在屋顶上安装了一台设备，每小时对空气质量进行监测。虽然媒体加强了对北京糟糕空气的报道——特别是针对今年1月的“空气末日”(airpocalypse)，那时北京的污染程度严重超过了美国国家环境保护局（United States Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）对空气污染设置的上限，而这一上限甚至对于健康成人来说都很危险——我经常发现自己难以向朋友解释，我对室外空气担忧至极。在美国的朋友似乎根本无法理解，而在北京的朋友似乎又已经习惯、甚至是麻木了。
As a native New Yorker, in addition to being the life-changing tragedy and wake-up call that it was for every American, 9/11 was what I consider the worst air pollution disaster of my lifetime. Could that experience help put the severity of Beijing’s air pollution into comparative perspective?
作为土生土长的纽约人，在我看来，“9·11”除了对每个美国人而言是一场足以改变人生的悲剧和令人警醒的事件以外，还是我所经历过的最严重的空气污染灾难。通过对比，“9·11”的经历能否帮助我们理解北京空气污染的严重程度？
Since, even after returning home, the question would not leave me, I decided to look into the comparison. So I spent the summer asking the scientists and doctors who studied 9/11’s environmental and public health impacts how they viewed the air in Beijing. Specifically, I asked them what I knew was a scientifically unorthodox question: Based on everything you know, is a child better off breathing the air in the middle of Beijing last winter or the air within a mile of Ground Zero in October 2001? Which air would you rather breathe?
就连在回家以后，这个问题仍然困扰着我，因此我决定进行这项比较研究。于是整个夏天，我都在询问研究过“9·11”事件的环境与公众健康影响的科学家和医生，他们如何看待北京的空气。具体而言，我问了他们一个明知在科学上并不正统的问题：一个是过去的那个冬天北京市中心的空气，另一个是2001年10月世贸中心方圆一英里（约合1.6公里）内的空气，根据你了解的情况，对一个儿童来说，呼吸两种空气中的哪一种更好？你本人更想呼吸哪种空气？
Some of the experts I interviewed were reluctant to make what they said amounted to an apples-to-oranges comparison—the origins, chemical composition, and manner of exposure to the bad air in the two cases makes it difficult to draw parallels. And yet, other experts I spoke to said that if given the choice between breathing the air in Lower Manhattan around Ground Zero in the weeks after 9/11, when it was still sickening thousands, or the air in Beijing earlier this year, they would choose Ground Zero.
我所采访的一些专家不愿意做出这样的比较。他们说，这相当于在拿苹果和橙子比较，两个例子中糟糕空气的污染源、化学组分和暴露方式截然不同，难以进行对比。然而，接受采访的另外一些专家则表示，如果要在呼吸“9·11”事件数周后（当时有数千因此患病）曼哈顿下城世贸中心附近的空气和今年年初北京的空气之间做选择，他们会选前者。
The pollution around Ground Zero and the EPA’s failure to warn rescue and recovery workers of its risks ultimately resulted in Congress’ appropriating $4.3 billion in 2010 to cover the cost for ongoing health monitoring and treatment of thousands of patients and compensating approximately 10,000 workers for economic losses already sustained from illnesses they suffered in breathing the toxic air.
世贸中心周围糟受了污染，但EPA未能警告救援人员和现场清理人员其中的风险。最后，国会不得不于2010年拨款43亿美元（约合263亿元人民币）用于持续到今天的健康检查、数千名患者的治疗，并对因吸入有毒气体而患病的大约1万名工作人员给予经济补偿。
How bad was the air at Ground Zero in the weeks following the attacks? According to New York City’s report “Addressing the Health Impacts of 9-11,” the attacks on the World Trade Center resulted in “massive combustions of jet fuel and toxic plumes of smoke,” and recovery efforts resuspended particulates including asbestos, metals, glass and volatile organic compounds, among other hazardous materials. The air sickened not only firemen and recovery workers who worked on the site of the collapsed towers, but also students at nearby schools and residents of Lower Manhattan who suffered a host of ailments including headaches, asthma, nausea, and breathing problems.
袭击过后的几周里，世贸中心周围的空气究竟有多糟糕？纽约市政府的报告《应对“9·11”所造成的健康影响》(Addressing the Health Impacts of 9–11)写道，世贸中心受到的袭击使“航空燃油大量燃烧，并产生了成片的毒烟”，而清理工作则使石棉、金属、玻璃及挥发性有机化合物等有毒物质重新悬浮到了空气中。这种空气不仅让在坍塌的大楼现场工作的消防员和清理人员感到不适，而且还让附近学校的学生及曼哈顿下城的居民出现很多病症，其中包括头痛、哮喘、恶心和呼吸问题。
In Beijing, where pollution from burning coal and diesel emissions is severe, the machine on the U.S. Embassy’s roof monitors “PM2.5”—the airborne concentration of particles 2.5 microns in diameter (1/30 the width of a human hair) or finer, whose size allows them to travel deep into human lungs (and even into the bloodstream) where they can cause a range of serious health problems, including cancer and cardiovascular disease. While many of the health problems New Yorkers and rescovery workers suffered after 9/11were due to coarser particles—blasted shards of glass, pulverized cement—or to gasses, scientists around Ground Zero also monitored PM2.5, which was an important component of the toxic plume that swept back and forth over Lower Manhattan in the weeks after 9/11. Looking for a point of comparison, I compiled the U.S. Embassy’s readings in Beijing for the months of January through March and showed them to the 9/11 experts I interviewed.
在北京，烧煤和柴油机排放造成了严重污染。美国大使馆屋顶的机器能够监测PM2.5的水平——即直径不大于2.5微米（头发直径的1/30）的颗粒物在空气中的浓度。这种尺寸的颗粒物可以深入人类肺部（甚至进入血液），引起包括癌症和心血管疾病在内的多种严重的健康问题。纽约市民和清理人员在“9·11”后遇到的很多健康问题都是尺寸更大的颗粒物——碎玻璃渣和水泥粉尘——或气体所致，但科学家也对世贸中心附近的PM2.5进行了监测。“9·11”后的几周，有毒浓烟在曼哈顿下城上空来回飘荡，PM2.5是其中的重要成分。为了寻找比照点，我整理了美国大使馆今年1月至3月的北京测量数据，然后拿给我采访的一些“9·11”专家看。
“I would personally rather breathe the air at the World Trade Center,” said Thomas A. Cahill, Professor Emeritus of Physics and Atmospheric Science at the University of California, Davis, after reviewing the Beijing data I had tabulated. Cahill began monitoring PM2.5 levels a few blocks from Ground Zero starting in October 2001. He also conducted research on air pollution in Beijing in April of 2001. “It was bad then,” he told me. “It’s worse now.”
看完被我制成表格的北京的数据后，加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的物理与大气科学荣休教授托马斯·A·卡希尔(Thomas A. Cahill)说，“我个人更愿意呼吸世贸中心的空气。”从2001年10月开始，卡希尔在距离世贸中心几个街区的地方监测PM2.5的水平。2001年4月，他还曾在北京对空气污染进行了研究。“那时情况很糟糕，”他告诉我，“现在更糟。”
“For the coarser particles,” Cahill explained, “Beijing is far, far worse than the World Trade Center. Beijing is full of really nasty stuff: mercury, lead, cadmium. And, when the wind blows, it resuspends dirt over roadways.” The fine particles Cahill monitored in New York included dangerous carcinogens he says are not necessarily present in Beijing’s air—the Embassy monitors only the concentration of particles, not their chemical make-up—but the concentrations of particles in Beijing this winter were consistently far higher than even the worst days he and his colleagues saw in Lower Manhattan in October 2001. “I’d love to be able to see the chemistry for Beijing,” he said of the Beijing data, “But at those levels anything is harmful. You can’t process it.” Moreover, he said, “The worst days at the World Trade Center lasted only a few weeks while Beijing continues to be massively polluted day after day, month after month, year after year.”
“说到较大的颗粒物，”卡希尔解释道，“北京的情况远比世贸中心糟糕。北京充满了各种危害性物质：汞、铅和镉。此外，刮风的时候，尘土再度悬浮在道路上方。”卡希尔在纽约的微小颗粒物中检出了危险的致癌物，他表示，北京的空气中不一定含有此类物质；美国大使馆只对颗粒物的浓度进行监测，而没有检验其中的化学构成。但卡希尔称，在刚刚过去的这个冬天，北京颗粒物的浓度一直远远超过了他和同事2001年10月在曼哈顿下城所见到的情况。提到北京的监测数据，他说，“我很想看看北京污染物的化学构成。但污染达到了这种水平的话，任何物质都是有害的。你怎么分析都没用。”此外，“世贸中心最糟糕的日子只持续了几周，而北京却日复一日、月复一月、年复一年地处于重度污染之中。”
Dr. Jacqueline Moline, a specialist in occupational medicine and Chair of the Hofstra University North Shore-LIJ School of Medicine’s Population Health program has monitored and treated World Trade Center responders since 2002. “The air at Ground Zero,” she said, referring to the period beginning two weeks after 9/11 when monitoring of PM2.5 began, “was safer to breathe, from a particulate standpoint, than the air in Beijing, on an average basis.” What made the Ground Zero air different, she told me, “is that there were a lot of complex mixtures…It wasn’t just the particulates and the simple air pollution or the things that are typically associated with air pollution. The World Trade Center and the fires that burned after it were not the typical air pollution type of fires and there were a lot of other factors that went into it. There were a lot of plastics, computer parts, metals.” Still, Moline called Beijing’s pollution levels “just astonishing.” She explained later in an e-mail, “The issue with PM2.5 is that the particles are so small that they can penetrate deeply into the lung, and the chemical make-up of the particulate matter…isn’t as important overall to the fact that these high levels can cause damage.”
自2002年以来，职业医学专家、霍夫斯特拉大学北岸长岛犹太医学院(Hofstra University North Shore-LIJ School of Medicine)人口健康项目主任杰奎琳·莫林医生(Dr. Jacqueline Moline)就一直在监测并治疗世贸中心的应急人员。莫林医生在谈到“9·11”事件爆发两周后，开始监测PM2.5浓度的时候表示，“从颗粒物的角度来说，平均而言，世贸中心的空气要比北京的空气安全。”她告诉我，那时世贸中心空气的特点在于，“有很多复杂的混合物……不仅仅是颗粒物、简单的空气污染，或是通常与空气污染有关的那些物质。世贸中心倒塌以及随即燃起的大火不是典型的火灾空气污染，还夹杂着很多其他东西。有大量的塑料、电脑部件及金属。”尽管如此，莫林还是称北京的污染水平“简直令人震惊”。她后来在一份邮件中解释说，“PM2.5的问题是，这种颗粒物如此微小，以至于它们能够深入肺部。总体而言，相对于这么高的颗粒物浓度会造成损害这一事实，颗粒物的化学构成……已经不那么重要了。”
When I asked her which air she would rather have a child breathe, given the choice of Beijing’s air every day or Ground Zero’s air in October 2001, Moline said, “In October 2001, I would rather have them breathe that air rather than, day in, day out, breathe the air in Beijing, in part because I know the air is going to get better in New York, and the air is not going to get better in Beijing.”
当我问她，若要在天天呼吸北京的空气与2001年10月呼吸世贸中心的空气之间做出选择，她宁愿让孩子呼吸哪种空气时，莫林表示，“2001年10月，我会宁愿让他们呼吸世贸中心的空气，而不是日复一日地呼吸北京的空气。这部分是因为，我知道纽约的空气会变好，而北京的空气不会改善。”
“The problem there [in Beijing] is persistence,” concurred Paul Lioy, a physician and specialist in Environmental Medicine at Rutgers University and the author of the books DUST: The Inside Story of its Role in the September 11th Aftermath and Toxic Air Pollution. Lioy was warier of direct comparisons. When I asked him which air he would rather have a child breathe, Lioy answered, “Neither...I wouldn’t want my child breathing either...They’re both bad for different reasons…The levels in China are extremely high over a long period of time.”
罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的内科医生和环境医学专家保罗·利奥伊(Paul Lioy)表示赞同，“（北京的）问题在于持续不断。”利奥伊著有《灰尘：“9·11”事件后其角色的内幕》(DUST: The Inside Story of its Role in the September 11th Aftermath)及《有毒空气污染》(Toxic Air Pollution)。利奥伊对直接对比更为犹豫。当我问他会让孩子呼吸哪种空气时，他回答，“都不行……我不会让我的孩子呼吸这两种空气中的任何一种……出于不同的原因，两种空气都非常糟糕……中国的空气污染在很长一段时间里持续处于极高水平。”
“It’s not a simple mass-based comparison,” agreed Dr. Jonathan Samet, Director of the University of the Southern California Institute for Global Health at the Keck School of Medicine, who says he has traveled in China on and off for more than twenty years. “The real point,” Samet said, “is that these levels far exceed what is deemed as healthy by any authority. These levels are reaching those at which catastrophe has occurred,” he added, citing London’s Great Killer Smog episode of December 1952, an epic air pollution event in which several days of frigid temperatures in London prompted increased coal-burning and contributed to the immediate deaths of approximately 4,000 people.
南加州大学凯克医学院全球健康研究所(University of the Southern California Institute for Global Health at the Keck School of Medicine)主任乔纳森·萨梅特博士(Dr. Jonathan Samet)说，“不能作这种简单的基于质量的比较，”他表示，自己在过去20多年里多次前往中国。“真正的问题是，”萨梅特说，“这些空气污染水平远远超出了任何权威机构认定的健康上限，达到了发生灾难的程度。”他提到1952年12月发生在伦敦的烟雾事件。在这场严重空气污染事件中，伦敦的低温天气持续数日，促使燃煤量增加，导致约4000人急性死亡。
Even if some of the experts I interviewed were disinclined to view Ground Zero as a meaningful comparison point for Beijing, none of them told me the air in Beijing was better than the air around Ground Zero and there was no disagreement over how poorly Beijing compares to America’s most notoriously polluted cities.
即便我采访的一部分专家不愿将世贸中心当作可与北京进行有意义比较的对象，但无人认为，北京的空气质量好于世贸中心附近的空气。同时他们都认为，与美国最臭名昭著的一些污染城市相比，北京的空气质量更为糟糕。
C. Arden Pope III, an expert on Environmental Economics and air pollution Epidemiology at Brigham Young University, estimates Beijing’s annual average PM2.5 is between 80 and 120. Air pollution data for American cities before the U.S. Clean Air Act is limited. “I know it used to be 35 or 40 in Riverside, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, Buffalo,” Pope said. “Those places all had average concentrations in the 30s, 35 or so. And, they declined over the years. Now, they tend to be in the low 20s.”
杨百翰大学(Brigham Young University)的环境经济学及空气污染流行病学专家C·阿登·波普三世(C. Arden Pope III)估计，北京PM2.5的年均值介于80至120之间。《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)实施之前的美国城市空气污染数据有限。“我知道里弗赛德、洛杉矶、匹兹堡及布法罗以前的数据是35或40，”波普说，“这些地方的平均污染浓度以前都在30多、35左右，这些年来它们已逐渐下降。如今的浓度一般是20出头。”
More recent comparisons of Beijing to United States cities are more striking. “I was in Los Angeles when some bad forest fires occurred, and the air quality was bad—but still better than an average day in Beijing,” wrote Beijing-based environmental consultant Steven Andrews in an email. “PM2.5 levels during those fires reached up to 350…This January in Beijing, PM2.5 concentrations reached above 600 (24h average) and 900” in a single hour.
北京与美国城市近年数据的对比更加惊人。“我在洛杉矶的时候，发生了一些严重的森林火灾，空气质量可谓非常糟糕，但仍比北京平时的空气质量好，”在北京工作的环境顾问史蒂文·安德鲁斯(Steven Andrews)在邮件中写道。“在那些火灾期间，PM2.5水平达到了350。今年1月，北京的PM2.5浓度达到了600（24小时平均值）以上，某个小时超过了900。
What does pollution this severe portend in terms of public health? If Beijing fails to clean up its air quickly, its population of some 20 million could expect “decreased life expectancy, a lot of preventable death. You’re going to have a lot more disability, which is a tremendous social cost,” as Hofstra’s Moline told me. “You’re going to have a lot of people having heart disease who aren’t going to be able to work anymore.”
就公众健康而言，如此严重的污染意味着什么？霍夫斯特拉大学的莫林医生告诉我，如果北京不能迅速净化空气，那里的约2000万人口可能会“缩短预期寿命，造成很多本可避免的死亡。还会产生多得多的残疾，构成巨大的社会成本。会有许多人罹患心脏疾病，丧失劳动能力”。
“I am not one of these sky is falling kind, but here the sky is truly falling full of particulates,” Moline said as she reviewed Beijing’s PM2.5 data from January to March.
莫林看了北京今年1到3月份的PM2.5数据后说，“我不是那种担心天塌下来的人，不过，北京似乎满天是颗粒物。”
So, if “the sky is truly falling,” what responsibility is there to warn people and their children about the dangers? Chinese government officials, like politicians throughout the world, may not be eager to stress a problem at home, and China’s own Air Quality Index has higher thresholds for what constitutes unhealthy air than the EPA―which itself was roundly criticized for years following the September 11 attacks after scientists and doctors, including some I interviewed, forced the agency to admit that it had severely understated the severity of the pollution disaster at Ground Zero in its reports on the air being breathed by residents and recovery workers.
那么，对于这种满天的颗粒物，应当有什么责任就相关危险警告民众及其子女？与全世界的政客一样，中国政府官员也许并不急于声张国内问题，同时中国自身的空气质量指数中不健康空气的门槛高于美国EPA的标准。EPA本身在“9·11”袭击过后受到多年的严厉批评，科学家和医生，包括我采访过的一些人，迫使该机构承认，在其多份报告中严重低估了世贸中心污染灾害的程度，尤其是对于居民与现场清理人员所呼吸的空气。
The U.S. Embassy in Beijing publishes hourly readings and charts of the air quality in Beijing and four other Chinese cities on its public website, yet, currently, it only provides this information for the previous twenty-four hours, and then the data is removed. “Although we do not currently disseminate historical data to the general public, we make hourly data publicly available,” U.S. Embassy Deputy Spokesman Justin Higgins explained to me in an email. It is not available after twenty-four hours, except if one accesses the Embassy Twitter feed and looks for the information hour by hour, tweet by tweet. That’s what I did to collect the data I showed the experts I interviewed because the U.S. Department of State only provided some of the archived public data I requested for this story two weeks before press time. “We are working to make all historical data publicly available on the web and hope to have more current data to share shortly,” Higgins told me. That will make it easier for the public to track trends. But this kind of easily available and increasingly comprehensive information also makes living in Beijing that much more of a daily dilemma.
美国驻华大使馆在其公共网页上公布北京等五座中国城市的空气质量小时读数及图表。不过，它目前仅提供过去24小时的信息，过后数据就会被移除。大使馆副发言人何哲鑫(Justin Higgins)在电子邮件中这样解释，“尽管我们目前不向公众散发历史数据，但我们公布了每小时的数据。”由于24小时后就看不到，只能查看使馆的Twitter账户，逐个帖子地查找每小时的数据。采访专家的时候，我给他们看的数据就是这样搜集来的，因为本文发表两周前，我向美国国务院提出查看归档的公共数据，但他们仅提供了一部分。“我们正着手将所有的历史数据在网上公诸于众，并且希望很快有更多的当前数据可以分享，”希金斯写道。这倒是会让公众更易于掌握趋势。不过，这种易于获取、且越来越“看得懂”的信息，也会让在北京生活在更大程度上成为一种日复一日的心理纠结。
But even with more information, knowledgeable people are still choosing to live in Beijing. On August 4, New York Times Beijing correspondent Edward Wong wrote anaccount of the daily dilemma he now faces asking his wife and young daughter to live every day in air that may or may not be apples-to-apples worse than Ground Zero on September 12 but certainly is no better.
但是，就算信息更多了，还是有知情的人选择在北京生活。今年8月4日，《纽约时报》驻京记者黄安伟(Edward Wong)写了一篇文章，详细描述了他如今每天都要面对的两难，因为他让妻子和年幼的女儿每天生活在这样的空气中，这里的空气也许不比2001年9月12日的世贸中心更糟，但也绝不会更好。
“Before this assignment, I spent three and a half years reporting in Iraq, where foreign correspondents talked endlessly of the variety of ways in which one could die — car bombs, firefights, being abducted and then beheaded. I survived those threats, only now to find myself wondering: Is China doing irreparable harm to me and my family? The environmental hazards here are legion, and the consequences might not manifest themselves for years or even decades. The risks are magnified for young children.”
“在被派往中国之前，我在伊拉克做了三年半的记者。在那里，外国记者们不停地谈论各种可能致人死亡的方式——汽车炸弹、枪战、被绑架后遭到斩首。我在这些威胁中活了下来，却发现现在自己在揣测：生活在中国是否正对我和我的家人造成不可挽回的伤害？这里的环境危险太厉害了，而且其后果可能会在数年甚至数十年后才显现出来。对年幼的孩子来说，这些风险更为显著。”
To drive home Wong’s point, the Times illustrated his essay with a blow-up color picture of an infant breathing through a mask at a Beijing hospital. The photo covered almost the entire front page of the paper’s Sunday Review section, an image that inescapably brings to life those readings from the Embassy roof.
为了突显黄安伟的观点，《纽约时报》给文章的配图是北京的医院里一个婴儿通过面罩呼吸的彩色大特写。这张照片几乎覆盖了该报《星期日评论》的整个头版，不可避免地让人联想到大使馆屋顶上的读数。
This fall, nobody is forcing me to return to Beijing, which, after all, is only China’s ninth worst-polluted city. But the trade-off—the world’s most fascinating, emerging country versus the world’s most threatening environment—is worth it. So, I’m returning for another semester of language study, and to immerse myself in all things China—well, except for the food, water, and air. I’m returning with a full supply of N95 respirator masks and air filtering machines, and even more determination to use them.
无人强迫我今年秋天重返北京。话说回来，它在中国污染最严重的城市中不过排名第九。权衡一下——一方面是世界上最具吸引力、最欣欣向荣的国家，另一方面是构成最大威胁的环境污染——还是值得一去。因此，我即将再回去度过一个学期，把自己浸泡在全中式环境中——当然，除了食物、水和空气之外。我回去的时候，会带上充足的N95防护口罩和空气过滤设备，以及更加坚定地使用它们的决心。