For a diplomat who reportedly does not like to fly — no-smoking cabins cut into his nicotine habit – Wu Dawei, China’s special representative for Korean Peninsula affairs, has been a busy man.
据称，中国的朝鲜半岛事务特别代表武大伟不愿乘坐飞机，因为机舱禁止吸烟，妨碍了他吸尼古丁的习惯。尽管如此，这名外交官一直飞来飞去。
Mr. Wu visited Washington last week, and now he is in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, presumably conveying what he learned about the Obama administration’s requirements for a return to negotiations on North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.
武大伟上周访问了华盛顿，目前在朝鲜首都平壤，估计是正在传达他了解的奥巴马政府对于重返朝鲜核武器项目谈判的要求。
Washington has made clear that it wants concrete steps by North Korea on denuclearization – such things as a freeze in uranium production and inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency – before it will consider a new round of six-party talks. The talks, which involved the United States, North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan and Russia, fell apart in 2009.
华盛顿已经明确表示，希望朝鲜就无核化采取具体措施，比如停止铀生产，接受国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)的检查，否则美国不会考虑参与新一轮六方会谈。涉及美国、朝鲜、韩国、中国、日本及俄罗斯的六方会谈在2009年破裂。
Beijing, however, wants to jump-start talks with North Korea without such preconditions, and Mr. Wu met with Washington officials to try to persuade the United States to return to the talks. Washington told Mr. Wu that would not be possible under the current circumstances.
然而，北京希望在不设此类前提条件的情况下启动与朝鲜的会谈。武大伟与华盛顿的官员见了面，试图说服美国重返谈判桌。华盛顿方面告诉武大伟，依据目前的情况，这不可能。
Can Mr. Wu bridge the difference between Washington and Pyongyang? Will he be able to find out what the North Koreans might be prepared to do to satisfy Washington?
武大伟能消除华盛顿方面与平壤方面的分歧吗？他能探明朝鲜人准备采取何种举措来满足美国的要求吗？
In the short term, that seems unlikely, although, since President Obama and the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, met in California last summer, Washington appears to be putting great store in using China as the broker that can best nudge North Korea forward.
短期内，这似乎不太可能，尽管自奥巴马总统和中国领导人习近平于去年夏天在加利福尼亚会面之后，美国似乎对中国寄予厚望，认为中国是最能推动朝鲜前进的中间人。
China has gotten tougher with North Korea, but not tough enough to elicit moves that would meet the Obama administration’s demands, said a senior administration official, who declined to be named in keeping with protocol.
一名高级政府官员表示，中国对朝鲜的态度已经变得更加强硬，但还不够强硬，无法促使朝鲜采取符合奥巴马政府要求的举措。因为要遵守相关协议，这名官员要求匿名。
The administration is convinced that North Korea, which conducted a third nuclear test this year, has no interest in scrapping its nuclear arsenal. North Korea keeps reminding the world that it considers itself a nuclear state, and that its “military-first” policy requires that most of its resources go to its armed forces.
朝鲜在今年进行了第三次核试验，美国政府确信该国无意放弃核武库。朝鲜一直在提醒全世界，该国已将自己视作核国家，其“先军”政策也要求朝鲜将大多数资源用于军队。
With that in mind, the United States has enhanced its missile defenses in northeastern Asia, a buildup that brings these weapons closer to China, a situation distasteful to Beijing. For Washington, the stepped-up missile defenses can be used as leverage with China to pressure North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons.
考虑到这一点，美国加强了在亚州东北部的导弹防御，结果是这些武器离中国更近，招致了北京方面的不满。从华盛顿的角度来看，加强导弹防御可以促使中国向朝鲜施压，使其放弃核武器。
The logjam has not deterred efforts outside official channels to ease a path back to six-party talks.
这种僵局没有阻止相关方面努力通过非官方途径缓解局势，推动美国重返六方会谈。
Two former American negotiators, Stephen Bosworth and Robert L. Gallucci, recently attended meetings in Berlin and London where North Korean officials were present. The pair then wrote an op-ed piece saying that the Obama administration should abandon its hard-line posture and reopen talks with North Korea. That argument has gotten little traction inside the White House, the senior administration official said, where it is seen as having been overtaken by developments.
前美国谈判代表斯蒂芬·W·博斯沃思(Stephen W. Bosworth)和罗伯特·L·加卢奇(Robert L. Gallucci)最近参加了在柏林和伦敦举行的会议，朝鲜官员也出席了这些会议。两人当时写了一篇观点文章，称奥巴马政府应该放弃强硬姿态，与朝鲜重启谈判。前述高级政府官员表示，这种主张在白宫内部没有得到什么响应，因为白宫认为，该主张已经不适合目前的发展态势。
Another former American official, Evans J.R. Revere, agreed in a paper for the Brookings Institution with the pessimistic conclusion of Mr. Bosworth and Mr. Gallucci that in the absence of dialogue there was little to prevent North Korea’s development of more and better nuclear weapons. But Mr. Revere counseled a different tack. Now is not the time to join talks with North Korea, he wrote. Washington should get tougher with North Korea, and stop relying so much on China, whose interests overlap but are not identical with those of the United States.
另一名前美国官员李维亚(Evans J. R. Revere)向布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)提交了一篇论文，赞同博斯沃思和加卢奇的悲观结论：若不开展对话，几乎无法阻止朝鲜研发更多、更先进的核武器。但李维亚提出了一个不同的策略。他写道，目前不是重返谈判的时候，华盛顿方面应该更加强硬地对待朝鲜，不再过于依赖中国，美国与中国虽有共同利益，但两者的利益并不完全一致。
Still, some are encouraged by the recent comings and goings over North Korea, especially since Mr. Wu is on his second visit to Pyongyang in three months. On Wednesday, South Korean and Japanese officials also met in Washington with Glyn T. Davies, the United States special representative for North Korea.
尽管如此，关于朝鲜的一些近期动向还是让一些人备受鼓舞，特别是武大伟在三个月当中二度访问朝鲜的举动。周三，韩国和日本的官员在华盛顿会见了美国的朝鲜问题特别代表格林·T·戴维斯(Glyn T. Davies)。
Roger Cavazos, a former United States Army intelligence officer and North Korea watcher who is now with the Nautilus Institute, a group that studies international security issues, said, “The point is: Wu Dawei talks with North Korea in August, North Korea then talks with U.S. interlocutors” — Mr. Bosworth and Mr. Gallucci — “U.S. interlocutors back-brief the State Department, then State gives their answers to Wu, and Wu is now in North Korea relaying American answers/concerns.”
目前在研究国际安全问题的鹦鹉螺研究所(Nautilus Institute)担任朝鲜问题观察员的前美国陆军情报官员罗杰·卡瓦佐斯(Roger Cavazos)表示，“关键在于，武大伟今年8月与朝鲜进行了会谈，朝鲜方面随后又与美方人员进行了会谈”——他指的是博斯沃思和加卢奇——“美方人员回来后向国务院(State Department)作了简报，国务院又把他们的答案给了武大伟，武大伟目前则在朝鲜传达美国的回复或关注的问题。”
All this movement bears resemblance to “a Ferris wheel with lots of up and down — lots of movement, but not getting anywhere,” Mr. Cavazos said. But on a more positive note, “This particular iteration may be the point at which the participants get off the Ferris wheel and meet again – or at least that is the hope.”
卡瓦佐斯表示，这些行动很像是“上上下下的摩天轮，动作很多，却没有什么收获。”但他表示，从积极方面来看，“这种特别的重复可能是下了摩天轮的人再次相遇的一个机会，至少我们希望如此。”