BEIJING — Officials in the Chinese capital declared for the first time on Monday evening that the thick smog blanketing the city was bad enough to require a red alert, the highest level of alarm. It was the first time a code red had been sounded since Beijing announced an emergency air pollution response system with multicolored warnings in 2013.
北京——中国首都的官员周一晚间首次宣布，笼罩该城的厚厚雾霾严重到需要启用红色预警的程度，这是最高级别的预警。也是2013年采用颜色标示的空气污染应急系统后，第一次启用红色预警。
Across the city, residents braced for the onset of another “airpocalypse” — the term that some English speakers here use for the most toxic bouts of air pollution.
全城居民在为又一个“空气末日”(airpocalypse)的来临做准备，“空气末日”是北京一些讲英语的人造出来的词，用来描述最严重的空气污染爆发。
If carried out properly, the temporary restrictions would affect many of Beijing’s more than 20 million residents. From 7 a.m. on Tuesday to noon on Thursday, schools will be required to close; cars will be allowed to drive only on alternate days, depending on their license plate numbers; and fireworks and outdoor barbecuing will be banned (grilled kebabs are a hugely popular street food in the city). In addition, government agencies will have to keep 30 percent of their automobiles off the streets.
如果真正执行的话，临时限制措施会给北京20多万居民中的许多人造成影响。从周二早上7点至周四中午12点，学校将被要求停课；车辆将根据其车牌号码进行单双号限行；烟花爆竹燃放、露天烧烤将被禁止（烤肉串是北京大街上的一种非常受欢迎的食品）。此外，政府机构将停驶全部公务车辆的30%。
An official signal of the announcement came around 6:30 p.m. Monday, when Xinhua, the state news agency, posted on its English-language Twitter account: “Beijing issues first red alert for heavy smog. Odd-even car ban imposed; schools suspended.” The post included a photograph of the Bird’s Nest, the iconic stadium built for the 2008 Summer Olympics, shrouded in charcoal-gray smog and barely visible.
这一宣布的官方信号是周一傍晚6点30分发布的，当时，国家通讯社新华社在其英文Twitter帐户上发帖称：“北京对严重雾霾首次启用红色预警。实施机动车单双号限行；学校停课。”帖子还配了一张“鸟巢”的照片，这个专为2008年夏季奥运会修建的地标性体育场笼罩在深灰色的雾霾之中，几乎看不见。
Around the same time, an official website of the Beijing government posted advisories on how to respond to the alarm.
大约在同时，北京市政府在其官方网站上发布了空气严重污染红色预警应急措施。
One big question was whether officials would strictly enforce the regulations immediately, especially given the late notice on Monday. Many residents were left scrambling to plan for the next morning: what to do with children not going to school; how to get to their jobs if they could not drive; and whether they should even go to work.
一个大问题是，官员是否会立即开始严格执行这些措施，尤其是考虑到措施发布的时间已是周一傍晚。许多居民对下一天早上的计划有点措手不及：孩子不去学校了该怎么办？如何不能开车，他们该怎么去上班？他们到底该不该去上班？
The city government did not explain the timing of its announcement. Thick smog had already settled over Beijing by Sunday afternoon, with pollution reaching what the United States government labels “very unhealthy,” when everyone may experience the effects of toxic air and should avoid unnecessary outdoor activity. On Monday, even before the red alert, announcements in Beijing subway stations warned that a spell of toxic air was hitting the city and would last until Wednesday.
北京市政府并未对发布这些措施的时间给予解释。厚厚的雾霾已经在周日下午降临北京，空气污染程度达到了美国政府标示的“非常不健康”水平，这意味着所有人都可能受这种有毒空气的影响，应避免不必要的户外活动。周一，虽然红色预警尚未发布，但北京地铁车站的公告已警告说，有毒空气正在降临，并将持续到周三。
As much as anything, the red alert could be the Beijing government’s response to withering criticism it received from many residents last week who wondered why it had issued only an orange alert, the second highest, during the most recent “airpocalypse.” On Dec. 1, a blog post by Zhang Kai of Greenpeace East Asia asked: “What will it take for Beijing to call a Red Alert on pollution?”
发布红色预警在很大程度上可能是北京政府对许多居民上周对其尖刻批评的反应，许多居民对最近一次严重的“空气末日”来袭时，政府为什么只发布了第二高级别的橙色预警感到不解。12月1日，绿色和平东亚分部的张凯在一篇博客文章中问道：“怎样才能让北京启用空气污染红色预警？”
Starting Nov. 28, an expanse of toxic air smothered northern China. Pollution in Beijing reached hazardous levels the next day and surged well beyond those levels on Nov. 30, when the air in some parts of the city contained deadly particulate matter called PM 2.5 that was nearly 40 times the limit recommended by the World Health Organization. It was the worst pollution of the year. The smog did not begin dissipating until late on Dec. 1, when strong winds blew across the city.
一大片有毒空气从11月28日开始覆盖中国北方地区。次日，北京空气污染程度达到了危险的水平，并在11月30日远远超过这个水平，当时在北京部分地区，空气中被称为PM2.5的致命细颗粒物的含量达到了世界卫生组织建议的每日最高接触值的近40倍。那是今年最糟糕的污染。直到12月1日夜间，全城刮起强风时，雾霾才开始散去。
Under the system announced in 2013, Beijing is supposed to issue an alert at least 24 hours before the onset of bad smog. Officials can predict pollution levels based on wind and weather forecasts.
据2013年公布的应急预案，北京应该在严重雾霾发生至少24小时前发布预警。官员可以在风力和天气预报的基础上预测污染程度。
A red alert should go into effect if there is a prediction that the air quality index will stay above 200 for more than 72 hours. The United States government rates above 200 as “very unhealthy,” and 301 to 500 as “hazardous.” At 7 p.m. Monday, the Beijing municipal reading was 253.
如果预测的空气质量指数在未来72小时或更长时间内持续在200以上，应该发布橙色预警，如果预测的空气质量指数在未来72小时持续在300以上，应该发布红色预警。美国政府把空气质量指数值200以上标为“非常不健康”，把301到500的值标为“危险”。周一晚7点时，北京市的空气质量指数为253。
The red alert was an upgrade from an orange alert issued on Saturday. By then, official Chinese news reports had already said a period of bad smog would start on Monday. Orange means outdoor construction should be halted, as well as the operations of companies that emit heavy pollution.
这次红色预警是周六发布的橙色预警的升级。中国官方的新闻媒体已在周六说，一段糟糕的雾霾天气将于周一到来。橙色预警意味着施工工地停止某些作业，对污染严重的企业停产限产。
Chinese cities, especially northern ones, have some of the world’s worst air pollution. Most of it comes from industrial coal burning, and some from motor vehicles. The leaders in Beijing can ensure clear skies when they want by ordering shutdowns of factories, but they have done so only during international summit meetings here and signature events like the military parade on Sept. 3 for the victory over Japan in World War II.
中国城市、尤其是北方城市有世界上最糟糕的空气污染。空气污染的大部分来自工业燃煤，也有一部分来自汽车。如果北京的领导人想确保天空晴朗，他们能通过下令工厂停工做到，但他们只是在北京有特别活动时才这样做，比如召开国际首脑会议、以及今年9月3日纪念二次世界大战和抗日战争胜利举行阅兵时。
At international climate change talks, including the ones now underway in Paris, Chinese officials have promised to curb coal use in order to address both air pollution and carbon dioxide emissions.
在包括目前在巴黎举行的国际气候变化谈判上，中国官员已承诺限制煤炭的使用，以同时解决空气污染和二氧化碳排放问题。
“This week in Paris, China is rightfully getting credit for its policies to tackle climate change,” said Alex Wang, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies Chinese environmental policy. “But the extraordinary air pollution in Beijing right now demonstrates just how much remains to be done to make these policies work in practice.”
“本周在巴黎，中国应对气候变化的政策受到理应得到的好评，”加州大学洛杉矶分校法学教授王立德(Alex Wang)说，他专门研究中国的环境政策。“但北京目前非同寻常的空气污染表明，要在实际工作中落实这些政策，的确还有不少工作要做。”