BEIJING — The first red alert over air pollution in the Chinese capital almost brought this city to a standstill in December, with schools shut, construction halted and driving restricted. Now, in a swift policy shift, Beijing plans to issue a red alert based on higher thresholds, despite government pledges to better address the toxic air.
北京——去年12月，中国首都首次发布了空气污染红色预警后，学校停课，施工停止，行车受限，令这座城市几乎陷入瘫痪。现在，政策发生了迅速转变，北京打算在发布红色预警时基于较高的阈值，尽管政府承诺更好地应对空气污染问题。
A red alert, the highest level of a four-tier warning system, will be issued if the daily average air quality index is forecast to exceed 500 for one day, 300 for two days or 200 for four days, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported on Sunday, quoting Beijing’s environmental agency. The new standards will take effect before the end of March, it said.
红色预警是四级预警系统中的最高一级。周日的时候，官方通讯社新华网援引北京环保机构的说法报道，以后如果预计每日平均空气质量指数将在一天的时间里超过500，两天超过300，或四天超过200，才会发布红色预警。文中称，新的标准将于3月底之前生效。
The air quality index, used in many countries, is an aggregate measure of various pollutants in the air. Currently, any reading above 200 for more than three days in Beijing will prompt a red alert, which activates numerous contingency plans that can disrupt jobs and businesses.
很多国家都在使用空气质量指数，它代表的是大气中各种污染物的综合指标。目前在北京，该指数连续三天以上超过200就会触发红色预警，而由此启动的大量应急计划可能会对工作和生意产生影响。
The red alert issued in December came as a surprise to many because air pollution in the city had routinely been worse. A number of times during the winter over the past three years, the air quality index exceeded 500, a level deemed hazardous to human health. Those “off-the-charts” episodes did not activate red alerts, even though the state news media instructed people to reduce their outdoor activities.
去年12月那次红色预警出乎很多人的意料，因为该市的空气污染常常比那次更加糟糕。过去三年的冬天里，北京空气质量指数多次超过500这个被视为对人体健康有危害的限值。但即便官方新闻媒体劝说大家减少户外活动，这些“爆表”事件也没有激活红色预警。
The new standards will also be applied to neighboring provinces that have suffered from severe air pollution, Xinhua reported.
新华的这篇报道称，大气污染严重的邻近省份也将采用这个新的标准。
Ma Jun, a prominent environmental researcher in Beijing, said the change highlighted officials’ worries about the social disruption a red alert could cause. With the new standards, he said, officials must reassess some of the contingency measures that come with the warning.
北京的知名环境研究者马军表示，这一变化突显了官方对红色预警可能导致社会活动中断的担忧。他说，实施新的标准之后，官方必须重新评估与预警相关的一些应急措施。
“There will be multiple times of red alerts in a year if we continue using the current standards, which will bring about a high social and economic cost,” Mr. Ma said, alluding to the contingency measures. They include the closing of factories and schools and strict limits on the use of cars.
“如果我们继续使用当前的标准，每年就会发布多次红色预警。这会带来高昂的社会和经济成本，”马军说。他指的是预警带来的应急措施，其中包括工厂停产、学校停课、严格限制汽车使用等。
Among the issues at stake is children’s health, he said, arguing for the need to re-evaluate the emergency measures after the imposition of the new standards. The Xinhua report said the response measures would remain the same, but each city affected would be able to decide if primary and middle schools should be temporarily closed.
他表示，利害攸关的问题包括儿童健康问题。他主张在新标准实施之后，对应急措施进行重新评估。新华的报道称，应对措施将保持不变，但每个受影响的城市可以自行决定是否应该让中小学暂时停课。
Mr. Ma argued that schools should continue to be closed even if Beijing declared a lower warning.
马军认为，即使北京发布等级较低的警告，学校也应该停课。
Next week, the Chinese Communist Party will convene its Parliament, where air pollution is expected to be a major topic.
中国下周将召开全国人民代表大会，预计空气污染将成为一项重大议题。
The Chinese news media reported over the weekend that Beijing was considering a plan to build five ventilation corridors to improve urban air circulation. The corridors, each at least 1,500 feet wide, would run though the city, passing through parks, inner-city lakes and public spaces. Also being planned, the reports said, are an unspecified number of narrower corridors. It is not clear how much the project would cost or when it would be finished.
中国新闻媒体在周末期间报道，北京正考虑一项计划，修建五条通风走廊，改善城区空气流通。每条走廊至少500米宽，将贯穿北京，途经公园、内城的湖泊和公共空间。有报道称，还有一些较窄的走廊也正在规划中，具体数目不详。目前尚不清楚这些项目将耗资多少，何时建好。
“The main role of ventilation corridors is to reduce the blockage of wind by the city to facilitate a heat exchange between the city and its peripheries and the spread of pollutants,” Wang Fei, vice director of the Beijing Municipal Commission of Urban Planning, was quoted by Xinhua as saying.
“通风廊道的作用，主要是为减少城市对风的阻挡，达到促进城区内外热交换和污染物扩散的作用。”新华引述北京市规划委员会副主任王飞的话报道。
“Thus, the urban heat island effect and pollution can be reduced,” Mr. Wang said, using a term for warmth in urban areas caused by human activity.
“从而缓解热岛效应和空气污染，”王飞说。热岛效应是指人类活动引起的城市地区的热量集聚。
The announcement followed the publishing last week of an opinion piece on the website of the government-controlled China Science Daily. It said the root cause of the smog in Beijing was declining wind power, which it said was the result of an increased planting of trees where none had been before, lower atmospheric pressure and desertification in Inner Mongolia, a province north of Beijing.
在调整预警标准的公告发布之前，政府主办的《中国科学报》上周在网站上发表了一篇评论文章，宣称北京雾霾的根本原因是风力衰减，并扬言这是因为在原先没有树的地方种植了树木，以及在北京以北的内蒙古，气压和荒漠化程度有所降低。
“We couldn’t help asking, did we plant the trees in the wrong place?” the article said. It also attacked the widely held view that smog comes from automobile exhaust, coal burning and industrial emissions, labeling such beliefs “ridiculous.”
“我们不禁要问：我们是不是把树栽错了地方呢？”文中写到。人们广泛认为雾霾来自汽车尾气、燃煤和工业排放，该文也对这种观点进行了批驳，称“其论谬矣”。
Liu Shuhua, a professor of atmospheric sciences at Peking University, expressed doubts about the ventilation corridors.
北京大学大气科学系教授刘树华表达了对通风走廊的疑虑。
“The weak vertical atmospheric circulation means ventilation corridors will have a very limited role to play,” he said. “They will only improve ground ventilation.”
“垂直大气环流较弱，意味着通风走廊发挥的作用会非常有限，”他说。“它们只能促进地面通风。”
More studies need to be undertaken to back up Beijing’s plan to build ventilation corridors, and many details are still lacking, said Edward Ng, a professor at the School of Architecture of the Chinese University of Hong Kong who helped design ventilation corridors in Hong Kong.
香港中文大学建筑学院教授吴恩融(Edward Ng)曾参与香港通风走廊的设计。他表示，北京修建通风走廊的计划还需要开展更多研究来为其提供支持，目前还缺少很多细节。
“Beijing has very low ground wind,” he said, meaning that the corridors would not be effective to disperse smog. He said that reducing industrial emissions remained crucial to tackling the issue.
“北京的地面风力非常低，”他说，这意味着走廊无法有效驱散雾霾。他认为，减少工业排放仍是应对这一问题的关键。
But, he said, many Chinese cities are hoping to join Beijing in the development of such tools. He said he would be in Xi’an, the capital of the northeastern province of Shaanxi, this week to discuss a plan to build ventilation corridors with officials there.
不过，他表示，中国很多城市希望像北京那样开发这类设施。他说，本周他将前往西北省份陕西的省会西安，与政府官员讨论一项修建通风走廊的计划。