By her own definition, 19-year-old Hou Yifan is an average student. She is a sophomore at Peking University, one of China’s top colleges, and says she constantly falls behind on her work.
用侯逸凡自己的话来说，19岁的她是一名普通的学生。她是中国顶尖学府北京大学的大二学生，还说自己常常不能及时完成功课。
But she has a better excuse than most: Ms. Hou is one of the greatest chess prodigies in history. She has been ranked among the top 10 women in the world since she was 12 and became a grandmaster, the game’s top title, when she was 14 years old — the 15th youngest on record.
然而，侯逸凡有一个比大多数人都好的借口：她是历史上最了不起的国际象棋神童之一。12岁以来，她在世界女性棋手中一直排名前十，并在14岁时成为了一名特级大师，这是国际象棋的最高头衔。她获得这一头衔的年纪在最年轻记录上位列第15。
On Friday, while most of her fellow students were in class, Ms. Hou was routing Anna Ushenina of Ukraine in the last game of their Women’s World Chess Championship match in Taizhou, China.
周五，她的大部分同学都在上课，而她在中国泰州的女子国际象棋世界冠军赛(Women’s World Chess Championship)的最后一盘比赛中击败了乌克兰的安娜·乌什尼娜(Anna Ushenina)。
Ms. Hou won the match 5.5 to 1.5 to recapture the crown, which she lost last year in the early rounds of a championship tournament. Ms. Ushenina, who is now 28, won the tournament, and the title. Ms. Hou first won the crown in 2010 when she was 16, making her the youngest player, man or woman, to win a world title. She successfully defended the title in 2011.
侯逸凡以5.5比1.5赢得比赛，夺回了在去年冠军锦标赛初赛中失去的桂冠。现年28岁的乌什尼娜赢得了去年的比赛，夺走了冠军称号。2010年，侯逸凡在16岁的年纪首次夺冠，成为了男女选手中赢得世界冠军的最年轻者。她于2011年成功卫冕冠军。
This year, Ms. Hou was the heavy favorite. She went into the match ranked as the No. 2 female player in the world; Ms. Ushenina’s ranking was No. 17.
这一年，侯逸凡优势明显。她在世界女性棋手中名列第二；乌什尼娜则排名第17。
For her victory, Ms. Hou earned the equivalent of about $160,000, while Ms. Ushenina received the equivalent of about $106,000.
侯逸凡此次获胜可赢得约16万美元奖金，乌什尼娜的奖金则为约10.6万美元。
In a telephone interview in English an hour after the last game Friday, Ms. Hou said the match “wasn’t so easy, but it also was not so difficult.” Because of her schedule at the university and because she had recently played in another tournament, she said, she had had little time to prepare.
上周五，最后一盘比赛结束一小时之后，侯逸凡用英文接受了电话采访。她说，这场比赛“不太容易，但也不太难。”她还说，由于大学的课程安排，以及最近参加的其他比赛，她几乎没有时间准备这场比赛。
Born in Xinghua, China, Ms. Hou discovered the game when she was 3 and her father took her to a store where she saw a glass chess set in a window and began staring at it. Her father bought a set, and she soon began beating him, so he found her a chess tutor. By 2003, at age 9, she was a member of the Chinese national team.
侯逸凡出生在兴化，从三岁开始接触国际象棋。当时，她父亲把她带到一家商店，她看到了橱窗里面的一副玻璃国际象棋，开始盯着它看。她父亲给她买了一副，她很快就开始击败自己的父亲，父亲便给她找了一位老师。2003年，9岁的侯逸凡成了中国国家队的一员。
Describing herself Friday as a full-time student, Ms. Hou said she did not receive any “special privileges” that allowed her to avoid fulfilling her course requirements. She also has to be in class most of the time, although she is allowed to leave for tournaments. Her travel schedule — she was recently in Norway and will soon go to Greece — is making her studies difficult, but she said she took her books with her.
周五的采访当中，侯逸凡形容自己是一名全职学生。她说她没有获得任何“特权”，跟别人一样需要达到课程的要求。大多数时间她都必须待在课堂上，但学校批准她请假参加各种比赛。最近她去了挪威，很快还要前往希腊。她的比赛行程加大了她学习的难度，不过她说，她随身带着课本。
Ms. Hou is well known in China, so when she enrolled last year at the university, some of the other students were “a bit surprised,” she said. But she said her fellow students had gotten used to having her there.
侯逸凡在中国家喻户晓，因此她说，她去年注册入学的时候，其他的一些学生“有点儿惊讶”。不过侯逸凡表示，她的同学已经习惯了她在学校上学的场面。
Asked why she was in the university at all, she said, “I am trying to really learn something” other than chess.
被问到究竟为什么上大学时，侯逸凡说，“我想真正地学点儿其他东西”，不光是国际象棋。
Now that the championship is over, she is going back to school before she competes in the European Club Cup next month. Before leaving, she has to cram for exams.
由于冠军赛已经结束，侯逸凡即将赶回学校。下个月，她将参加欧洲俱乐部杯(European Club Cup)的比赛。出发参赛之前，她不得不突击准备考试。