Harbin — a metropolis in China’s northeastern reaches — made international headlines last month when it experienced air pollution so abysmal that the government closed all schools and officials urged the city’s 11 million residents to stay indoors as visibility dropped to just 10 meters, roughly the width of a typical traffic intersection.
上个月，中国东北部的大城市哈尔滨成为国际头条，因为该市的空气污染极其严重，能见度降到仅仅10米，大约相当于标准交叉路口的宽度，迫使政府关闭所有学校，官员呼吁该市1100万居民待在室内。
Unsurprisingly, the “smog-pocalypse” hit one day after the city activated its coal-fired public heating system, a “key factor for the smoggy weather,” according to the state-run news agency, Xinhua.
不出所料，据官方媒体新华社报道，前述“雾霾天”出现在哈尔滨启动燃煤公共供暖系统一天之后，供暖是“造成雾霾天气的主要因素”。
On Friday, Beijing’s own public heating system will kick in, bringing warmth and, most likely, a precipitous drop in the capital’s already compromised air quality. A report in the Beijing Daily newspaper promised that indoor temperatures would reach 18 degrees Celsius (64 Fahrenheit).
北京的公共供暖系统将于周五开始供暖，在带来温暖的同时，很可能也会进一步加剧北京的空气污染。《北京日报》报道称，室内温度将保持在18℃（约合64华氏度）以上。
In a carry-over from China’s decades of highly centralized economic planning, the government still provides heavily subsidized coal-fired central heating to homes in northern China, much like the system in place in the former Soviet Union. Under the direction of Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, the Communist Party declared in 1950 that heating would be deemed a basic right and that homes and offices in northern China — as defined by the latitudinal divide marked by the Huai River and Qinling Mountains — would receive free heat from Nov. 15 through March 15.
作为中国数十年高度集中经济计划的残留影响之一，中国政府仍在以大量补贴支持北方地区家庭的燃煤中央供暖系统，跟前苏联的做法十分相似。根据周恩来总理的指示，中国共产党在1950年宣称供暖将被视为基本权利，北方地区——即秦岭淮河以北地区——的住所和办公室将享受免费供暖服务，供暖时间从11月15日持续至次年3月15日。
As a result, private alternatives for heating did not arrive in northern China until the mid-1990s, and many homes and offices continue to receive free heat. In addition, some buildings that used to house government work units receive heating two weeks earlier than other buildings, on Nov. 1, a socialist-era perk that has been used to increase the values of these homes in the market economy.
因此，在20世纪90年代中期之前，中国北方地区从未出现私人供暖系统，直到如今，很多住所和办公室仍然享受免费供暖。此外，一些政府工作单位所在的建筑会提前两周——始于11月1日——开始供暖，这种社会主义时期的好处已被用于增加这些房子在市场经济中的价值。
In recent years, the environmental consequences of this heating policy have started coming to light. An article published in July in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, an American journal, linked coal burning to lower life expectancy. The 500 million Chinese living north of the Huai River lost an aggregate 2.5 billion years of life expectancy, an average of five years per northern Chinese resident, because of the heating system, according to the study.
最近几年，前述供暖政策带来的环境影响开始显现。美国期刊《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)今年7月发表的一篇文章认为，燃煤与寿命减短有关。根据这项研究，供暖系统致使淮河以北地区的5亿人口总共损失了25亿年的寿命，平均每个北方居民损失五年寿命。
An earlier study published by members of the same research team, in 2009, found that pollution levels — as measured by concentrations of total suspended particulates, or T.S.P. — were markedly higher in cities just north of the Huai River demarcation. The disparity is significant given that these cities share many climatic features with their counterparts south of the Huai.
同一研究团队在2009年公布的一项较早研究发现，刚刚位于淮河分界线以北的一些城市，以总悬浮颗粒物浓度（简称TSP）衡量的污染程度明显更高。考虑到这些城市和淮河以南的同类城市具有许多相同的气候特征，这种差异是相当显著的。
To make things worse, the coal-fired central heating system employed in the north is less efficient than the electric, gas and oil-based systems that prevail in the south. In a typical northern Chinese residential building, heat comes from a central coal-fired boiler, which then heats water that is sent through metal pipes to individual households, a journey that results in substantial energy loss.
雪上加霜的是，相较于南方盛行的以电力、天然气和石油为基础的供暖系统，中国北方采用的燃煤集中供暖系统能效更低。在一栋典型的中国北方居民楼内，热量来自中央燃煤锅炉，锅炉把水加热，热水通过金属管道输往各家各户，这个过程会损失大量热能。
In a sign that Beijing will begin to address its pollution problems, the city government announced plans in October to replace four coal-burning heating plants in the capital with natural-gas-powered ones by the end of 2014. According to a Xinhua report, these four plants burned 9.3 million metric tons of coal in 2012, roughly 40 percent of the city’s coal consumption last year.
北京将开始整治污染问题的一个迹象是，市政府在10月宣布了相关规划，要在2014年年底前，用以天然气为燃料的供暖厂代替首都现有的四座燃煤供暖厂。根据新华社的报道，2012年，这四座工厂消耗了930万公吨的燃煤，大致相当于去年本市煤消耗量的40%。
Until then, Beijing residents may want to hold their breath.
在那之前，北京市民也许以屏住呼吸为好。