The polar ice cap is melting, and if executives at the Russian energy company Novatek feel guilty about profiting from that, they do not let it be known in public.
北极冰盖正在融化，即使俄罗斯能源企业诺瓦泰克公司(Novatek)的高管们对于从中获利感到愧疚，他们也没有公开表露这种情绪。
From this windswept shore on the Arctic Ocean, where Novatek owns enormous natural gas deposits, a stretch of thousands of miles of ice-free water leads to China. The company intends to ship the gas directly there.
现在，从狂风肆虐的北冰洋海岸有一条绵延数千英里的不冻水路直抵中国，诺瓦泰克公司在这里拥有巨大的天然气储量。该公司打算把这些天然气直接发运至中国。
“If we don’t sell them the fuel, somebody else will,” Mikhail Lozovoi, a spokesman for Novatek, said last month with a shrug.
上个月，诺瓦泰克公司发言人米哈伊尔·洛佐沃伊(Mikhail Lozovoi)耸了耸肩膀说，“即使我们不把燃料卖给中国，其他人也会这么做。”
Novatek, in partnership with the French energy company Total and the China National Petroleum Corporation, is building a $20 billion liquefied natural gas plant on the central Arctic coast of Russia. It is one of the first major energy projects to take advantage of the summer thawing of the Arctic caused by global warming.
诺瓦泰克公司正与法国能源公司道达尔(Total)和中国石油天然气集团公司合作，在俄罗斯北极中部海岸建立一个耗资200亿美元（约合1227亿元人民币）的液化天然气厂。它是首批利用全球变暖所导致的北极冰盖夏季融化的大型能源项目之一。
The plant, called Yamal LNG, would send gas to Asia along the sea lanes known as the Northeast Passage, which opened for regular international shipping only four years ago.
这座工厂名为亚马尔液化天然气厂(Yamal LNG)，它将沿着被称为东北航道(Northeast Passage)的海上航道，把天然气运往亚洲，该航道四年前才对国际航运常态化开放。
Whatever blame for the grim environmental consequences of global warming elsewhere in the world that might be placed on the petroleum industry, in the Far North, companies like Novatek and Total, Exxon Mobil of the United States and Statoil of Norway stand to make profit.
无论你如何指责石油业要对全球其他地区变暖所导致的严重环境后果负责，在远北地区(Far North)，诺瓦泰克、道达尔、美国的埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)和挪威国家石油公司(Statoil)都有望大赚一笔。
“It’s a reality of what is available today, and commercially it is a route that cuts cost,” Emily Stromquist, a global energy analyst at the Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview.
欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)全球能源分析师埃米丽·斯特罗奎斯特(Emily Stromquist)在接受电话采访时说，“这是关于今日可用什么的现实，从商业角度看，它是一条削减成本的线路。”
Because of easing ice conditions and new hull designs, the tankers will not even require nuclear-powered icebreakers to lead the way — as is the practice now — except through the most northerly straits.
目前，油轮还需要核动力破冰船开道，但由于冰情趋缓和新的船体设计，将来，除了通过最北端的海峡之外，油轮甚至不再需要破冰船开道。
Novatek’s alternative was extending the natural gas pipeline that goes to Europe over hundreds of miles of tundra, at great cost. While shipping the gas from the field on the Yamal Peninsula, one of the long, misshapen fingers of land that extend north of the Urals in Russia, remains expensive, it is relatively cheap to drill and produce from these rich fields, making the overall project competitive.
诺瓦泰克公司的另一个选择是耗费巨资，在数百英里的冰原上延伸通往欧洲的天然气管道。尽管从亚马尔半岛的气田发运天然气依然成本高昂，但在这些储量丰富的气田钻井和开采天然气相对便宜，这让整个项目具有竞争力。亚马尔半岛是俄罗斯乌拉尔山脉向北延伸出来的几个细长、形状怪异的手指状半岛中的一个。
In addition to making it easier to ship to Asia, the receding ice cap has opened more of the sea floor to exploration. This has upended the traditional business model of using pipelines to Europe. Thawing has proceeded more slowly in the Arctic above Alaska, Canada and Greenland, but one day what is happening in Russia could happen there.
冰盖退却除了让天然气更易于运往亚洲外，还开放了更多可供勘探的海底区域。这推翻了通过管道向欧洲输送天然气的传统商业模式。在阿拉斯加、加拿大和格陵兰岛以北的北极海域，冰盖的融化过程更加缓慢，不过，俄罗斯正在发生的事，有朝一日也可能在这些地区发生。
Still, the Arctic waters are particularly perilous for drilling because of the extreme cold. Tongues of ice that descend from the polar cap for hundreds of miles obstruct shipping and threaten rigs. After a rig ran aground last year, Shell canceled drilling this summer in the Chukchi Sea off Alaska.
尽管如此，由于极端寒冷，在北极水域钻井是极其危险的。冰盖退化而成的冰舌绵延数百英里，妨碍航运，并对钻井平台构成威胁。去年一座平台搁浅后，今夏，壳牌(Shell)取消了在阿拉斯加海岸外的楚科奇海钻井的计划。
This is not the first Arctic venture to benefit from newly cleared sea lanes. The decision to open the Arctic Ocean to drilling passed Russia’s Parliament in 2008 as an amendment to a law on subsoil resources. Exxon and Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, are already in a joint venture to drill in the Kara Sea, and last month they agreed to expand to seven new exploration blocks in the Arctic. Fourteen wells are planned.
这不是第一个从新批准的海上航道获利的北极项目。俄罗斯议会于2008年通过了开放北冰洋钻井作业的提案，作为一部有关地下资源的法律的修正案。埃克森和俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)已经组建了合资企业，拟在喀拉海钻井，上个月，双方同意扩大作业范围，使北极的新勘探区块增至七个。目前规划了14个井。
With these ventures, Exxon has placed itself in the vanguard of oil companies exploring commercial opportunities in the newly ice-free waters.
通过这些项目，埃克森已成为在新的不冻水域探索商机的石油企业先锋。
In Russia, the mining company Norilsk can now ship its nickel and copper across the Arctic Ocean without chartering icebreakers, saving millions of rubles for shareholders.
在俄罗斯，矿业公司诺利尔斯克(Norilsk)现在能够不租用破冰船，就通过北冰洋发运镍和铜，为股东节省了数百万卢布。
Norway is also drilling deep in Arctic waters, but has less territory to explore. Tschudi, a Norwegian shipping company, has bought and revived an idled iron ore mine in the north of Norway to ship ore to China via the northern route.
挪威也在北极水域进行深水钻井，但其能够勘探的范围较小。挪威航运公司楚迪集团(Tschudi)买下挪威北部一座闲置的铁矿，将其重新投产，然后通过北方航道把铁矿石运往中国。
In northwest Alaska, the Red Dog lead and zinc mine moves its ore through the Bering Strait, which is less often clogged with packed ice than in past decades.
在阿拉斯加西北部，红狗铅锌矿通过白令海峡运送矿石，和过去数十年相比，该海峡被冰堵塞的日子减少了。
What is new in the Novatek project is an oil industry business plan that relies explicitly on the Northeast Passage. Though Russian ships have moved goods along the country’s sprawling Arctic coastline for more than a century, and the route was opened to international shipping in 1991, it became apparent only recently that climate change would make the trip profitable.
诺瓦泰克项目的新意在于，石油业制定了一项明确依托东北航道(Northeast Passage)的商业计划。虽然俄罗斯船舶沿着该国广阔的北冰洋海岸线运送货物已经有一个多世纪，而且这条航线在1991年就对国际航运开放，但直到近年才变得明显的是：气候变化将使采用这条航线有利可图。
The German shipping company Beluga made the first international commercial transit in 2009. The first transshipment with fuel, a cargo of gas condensate bound for China, crossed in 2010. By last summer, just three years after the first passage, 50 ships crossed above Russia, including eight tankers chartered by Novatek to test the route.
2009年，德国航运公司白鲸(Beluga)通过这条航线进行了首次国际商业航行。第一次被用来运输燃料是在2010年，将一船凝析气运往中国。截止去年夏天，在首航仅3年后，就有50艘船舶利用了俄罗斯以北的这条航线，其中包括诺瓦泰克用来测试航线的8艘租赁油轮。
Novatek has said it needs bank guarantees for $16 billion in project financing, while it and its partners will finance the rest. To secure these loans, the company needs a change in Russian law lifting Gazprom’s monopoly for exports.
诺瓦泰克表示，其在项目融资中需要160亿美元的银行担保，其余资金则由该公司和合作伙伴拿出。为争取这些贷款，该公司需要俄罗斯修改法律，打破俄罗斯天然气工业公司(Gazprom)的出口垄断权。
President Vladimir V. Putin, in a speech at an economic conference on June 21, said the law would change before this year was out, signaling that Yamal LNG had full Kremlin backing.
6月21日，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在一个经济大会上讲话时表示，俄罗斯将在今年内修改法律，这显示克里姆林宫鼎力支持亚马尔液化天然气项目。
If Russia can ship large volumes of gas to Asia, it could send ripples through the Asian markets and put a damper on plans to build liquefied natural gas export terminals in the Gulf of Mexico. The United States and Russia are the world’s two leading gas producers.
如果俄罗斯可以运送大量天然气到亚洲，这可能在亚洲市场产生冲击波，打击美国在墨西哥湾修建液化天然气出口终端的计划。美国和俄罗斯是全球两大天然气生产国。
Novatek has been experimenting with commercial models to complement the new shipping route. To fulfill contracts in the winter, when the northern route is more hazardous, the company can ship gas west over northern Russia, then around Europe, through the Suez Canal, and onward to Asia.
为了配合新的运输路线，诺瓦泰克公司在尝试一些商业模式。在冬季，北方航线会变得比较危险，为了履行冬季合同，该公司可把天然气通过俄罗斯北方航线向西发运，绕过欧洲，通过苏伊士运河，辗转运抵亚洲。
It has also negotiated with Qatar, a major Middle Eastern natural gas exporter, for a swap arrangement to save tanker fuel and time: Qatar would fulfill Novatek’s Asian contracts during the winter while Novatek, in exchange, would fill Qatar’s contracts to European customers during those months.
为了节省油轮运输所需的燃料和时间，该公司还与中东天然气重要出口国卡塔尔协商了一个互换安排：卡塔尔将在冬季履行诺瓦泰克的亚洲客户合同，作为交换，诺瓦泰克将在同期履行卡塔尔的欧洲客户合同。
The company intends to open the Arctic plant by 2016. It has already asked for bids for two ice-hardened tankers, which should be able to navigate the sea lanes toward China seven months a year and the routes to the west year round.
按照诺瓦泰克的想法，这个位于北极圈内的工厂将最迟在2016年投产。该公司已经开始为两艘防冰加固油轮招标，这种油轮应该可以在一年中的七个月里开往中国，或者全年航行至西方。
It says it has mastered building in the Far North where, counterintuitively, Russians labor mainly through the cold polar night in winter, when the tundra is more accessible to heavy equipment.
该公司还表示，它已经掌握了在远北地区修建设施的诀窍。与直觉也许相反的是，在远北地区，俄罗斯工人主要在寒冷的冬季极夜里施工，因为那个时候的冰原更适合重型设备进入和作业。
The company, Mr. Lozovoi said, is keeping an eye on climate studies of the Arctic.
洛佐沃伊表示，该公司正在关注北极的气候研究。
He said that because of engineering tolerances built into the ship designs, “even if the climate turns toward cooling, and the ice thickens, we will make money.”
他说，由于船舶在设计时安排了一定的工程余量，“即使气候变冷，冰层变厚，我们也会赚钱。”