ABOARD THE U.S.S. NEW MEXICO IN THE ARCTIC
在北极登上新墨西哥号
I NEVER thought I’d ever get to see what the Arctic ice cap looks like from the bottom up.
我从没想到会有机会从海底看到北极冰盖的样子。
It’s quite stunning — blocks of blue ice tumbling around in a frigid sea amid giant, jagged ice stalactites. I was afforded that unique view while surfacing from beneath the Arctic Circle last weekend aboard the U.S.S. New Mexico, an attack submarine. I had spent the night on the sub as part of a group accompanying Adm. Jonathan Greenert, the chief of naval operations, who was observing the Navy’s submarine arctic warfare exercise.
这令人十分惊叹——在寒冷的海洋之中，在巨大的凹凸不平的冰钟乳石中间，硕大的蓝色冰块上下起伏。我在上周末登上新墨西哥号(USS Mexico)攻击潜艇，从北极圈水下看到了这样不同寻常的景致。我那一晚作为海军作战部长乔纳森·格林纳特(Jonathan Greenert)上将陪同团队的一员在潜艇上度过，而他当时在视察海军潜艇在北极的作战演练。
We had flown into the Arctic by small plane and landed on a snow airstrip at the Navy’s ice research station Nautilus, 150 miles north of the North Slope of Alaska. When we got there, the New Mexico, which had been patrolling the waters below, had already found an opening of thin ice and slushy water. The sub used its conning tower, or sail, to smash through to the surface, then “parallel park,” as one officer put it, between two floating islands of thick ice, and pick us up.
我们乘小型飞机抵达了北极圈，降落在海军鹦鹉螺(Nautilus)冰雪研究站的雪上简易机场，此地在阿拉斯加北坡以北150英里（约合240公里）处。我们到达的时候，一直在水下巡逻的新墨西哥号，已经找到了一个薄冰和半融雪组成的突破口。潜水艇用其指挥塔，即潜望塔破冰而出，之后像一位军官所说的那样，在两个厚冰块的浮岛中间“平行停车”，接上了我们。
As we slipped back under water, the ship’s upward-looking camera (specially installed for underice travel where you can’t raise the periscope) carried a view of all the ice that had frozen around the sub in its few hours on the surface, which then cracked into huge chunks as we headed down. With the sub’s officers constantly checking the sonar and camera — and barking out speeds and directions to the two pilots steering the sub with a joystick and digital readouts that glowed in the dark control room — we gently submerged. The trick was to avoid the ice keels — forests of ice stalactites that extended down from the thicker surface ice into the arctic waters. Once we safely descended about 400 feet, we proceeded on our way. Watching these officers maneuver an 8,000-ton nuclear sub, 377 feet long, through islands of unstable Arctic ice — we surfaced the same way — was a breathtaking and breath-holding experience.
当我们潜回水下的时候，潜艇的仰望摄像头（特别为不能在海面升起潜望镜的冰下航行而装）展示了潜艇在水面上几小时的时间里周围结冰的景象，这些冰之后在我们下潜时裂成了巨大的碎块。潜艇上的军官不停核查声纳和摄像头，并向两位驾驶员发出速度和方位的指令，他们所操纵的摇杆和数字显示装置在昏暗的控制室里微微发光，于是我们的潜艇慢慢浸入水中。航行的关键是躲避尖耸的冰底——密密麻麻的冰钟乳石从较厚的冰面延伸至极寒的水底。一旦我们安全地下降至400英尺（约120米）处，就可以继续前行了。看着这些军官熟练地操纵重8000吨长377英尺的核潜艇，从变化莫测的北极冰块组成的浮岛中穿行——我们也以同样的方式浮出水面——对我们来说却是一个惊心动魄、屏气凝神的经历。
But this wasn’t tourism. Climate scientists predict that if warming trends continue, the Arctic’s ice cap will melt enough that — in this century — it will become a navigable ocean for commercial shipping year round, and for mineral and oil exploration. Russia has already made extensive claims to the Arctic, based on the reach of its continental shelf, beyond the usual 12 miles from its coastline; these are in dispute. To prepare for whatever unfolds here, though, the U.S. Navy keeps honing its Arctic submarine skills, including, on our trip, test-firing a virtual torpedo at a virtual enemy sub, studying how differences in water temperatures and the mix of freshwater from melted ice and saltwater affect undersea weapons and the sounds a sub makes (vital for knowing how to hide), as well as mapping the Arctic’s seabed topography.
但这并不是旅游观光。气候科学家们预测，如果全球变暖趋势继续，北极冰盖将会融化，北极圈将在本世纪内变为可全年商业航运的海洋，甚至开始进行矿产勘探及石油开采。俄罗斯已经根据其大陆架的延伸，大范围地在北极圈内宣称主权，超过了通常距海岸线12英里的范围；但这些还尚未有定论。为之后这里可能出现的情况做准备，美国海军不断地磨练自身在北极的潜艇作业技术，包括在我们这次航行中进行的一系列操作，其中有向虚拟敌方潜艇试射虚拟鱼雷；有研究水温不同，以及来自融冰的淡水和海水的不同混合，对水下武器、对潜艇发出声音（对于隐蔽至关重要）的影响；并且制作北极海床的地形图。
“In our lifetime, what was [in effect] land and prohibitive to navigate or explore, is becoming an ocean, and we’d better understand it,” noted Admiral Greenert. “We need to be sure that our sensors, weapons and people are proficient in this part of the world,” so that we can “own the undersea domain and get anywhere there.” Because if the Arctic does open up for shipping, it offers a much shorter route from the Atlantic to the Pacific than through the Panama Canal, saving huge amounts of time and fuel.
“在我们有生之年，一些过去（实际上）是陆地的，不能航行或探索的地方，正在变成海洋，我们最好明白这一点，”格林纳特上将提到。“我们需要确保我们的感应器、武器和人员熟知这片区域，”这样我们才可以“拥有海底领域，并自由遨游”。因为如果北极真的开放航行，从大西洋到太平洋的路程会大大缩短，比取道巴拿马运河要短得多，这将会节省大量的时间和油耗。
You learn a lot on a trip like this, starting with the fact that I’m not claustrophobic. Sleeping in the middle rack of three stacked beds, appropriately called coffins, I now know that.
在这样的一趟行程中，你会了解到很多东西，我首先了解到的是自己没有幽闭恐惧症。因为我可以睡在上中下三层的中铺。我现在知道了，它被叫做“棺材”恰如其分。
More important, you learn how crucial acoustics are when operating deep under ice with no vision and no GPS satellite to guide you. Or, as the New Mexico’s captain, Todd Moore, 40, put it: It’s like every day “engaging in a knife fight in a dark room: the only thing you can do is go after what you hear.” You can’t see the adversary. You can’t see the ice keels, but you can hear enemy subs, surface ships, whales, calving icebergs, schools of fish and bounce sound waves off them with sonar to measure distances. The New Mexico not only carries supersensitive sonar but also tows a giant electronic ear 1,000 feet behind it that can listen to the ocean without interference from the sub’s own engine noise.
更重要的是，在冰下深处前行，眼前一抹黑，而且也没有GPS卫星来引导你时，你会了解声学知识至关重要。或者就像新墨西哥号船长、40岁的托德·摩尔(Todd Moore)说的那样：这就像每天“在一个暗室里用刀战斗，你只能靠听声音辨别对方在哪里”。你看不到对手。你看不到冰底，但是使用声纳测量距离，你可以听到敌人的潜艇、水面船只、鲸鱼、正在崩解的冰山、鱼群和它们反射回来的声波。新墨西哥号不仅搭载了超敏感声纳，还在后方1000英尺的地方拖着一个巨大的电子耳，可以在没有新墨西哥号自身发动机噪音干扰的情况下听到海中的状况。
“We can hear shrimp crackling 200 feet under water,” explained Lt. Cmdr. Craig Litty. They can also hear someone drop a wrench in the engine room of a Russian sub several miles away.
“我们可以听到水下200英尺处小虾发出的噼啪声，”克雷格·里提(Craig Litty)少校说。他们还可以听到有人在几英里外俄罗斯潜艇的轮机舱里掉落了一个扳手发出的声音。
You certainly learn how self-contained a sub is. The New Mexico repairs its own broken parts, desalinates its own drinking water, generates its own nuclear power and makes its own air by taking purified water, zapping it with electricity, separating the H2O into hydrogen and oxygen, then discharging the hydrogen and circulating the oxygen. The only thing that limits them is food-storage capacity and the sanity of the 130 crew; 90 days underwater is no problem.
你一定会了解到潜艇具有惊人的自给自足能力。新墨西哥号自己维修破损部件，自己淡化饮用水，自己发核电，自己用净化水制造氧气：电解H2O，分离出氢气和氧气，然后排出氢气，把氧气导入通风系统。唯一的限制是食物的存储容量以及130名船员的精神健康；不过在水下待90天不成问题。