Zoo penguins were taken inside, sharks have washed up dead and records have been set.
动物园里的企鹅被转移到室内，死去的鲨鱼被冲刷上岸，低温不断刷新着历史上的记录。
North America is in the grips of a cold spell that has delivered frigid temperatures that haven’t been seen in years in some places.
北美正处在严寒天气中，一些地方出现了多年未见的低温。
The cold weather, which has been blamed for a handful of deaths, is expected to continue at least into the weekend, with temperatures most likely remaining below average and possibly setting records, according to Bob Oravec, a lead forecaster with the National Weather Service in College Park, Md.
美国国家气象局(National Weather Service)首席预报员鲍勃·奥拉维克(Bob Oravec)说，这次寒冷天气将至少持续到周末，气温很可能低于往年平均水平，并有可能创下记录。这次寒冷天气已经造成多人死亡。
“We’re stuck right now in a very wintry pattern,” he said.
“我们陷入了一个非常寒冬的模式，”他说。
Here’s a look at how the cold snap has affected the country so far — and how people and animals are coping.
我们来看一看寒流如何影响美国，以及人和动物是如何应对它的。
... records are being set.
创记录的低温
As revelers marked the end of 2017 in Times Square, the temperature reached 9 degrees, making the New Year’s Eve celebration there the coldest since 1917.
狂欢者在2017年行将结束之际来到时报广场的时候，气温达到了零下13摄氏度。这是自1917年以来最冷的新年夜。
On the first day of 2018, a number of records were set. The temperature in Portland, Me., reached minus 17 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 27 Celsius), beating a record set more than six decades ago. Aberdeen, S.D., saw a high of minus 9, beating a record set in 1928. And, in Alma, Fla., the high temperature was 42, matching a record set in 1964.
2018年的第一天也创下好几个记录。在缅因州的波特兰，气温达到零下27摄氏度，创下了60多年来的记录；南达科他州阿伯丁的最高温度只有零下23摄氏度，打破了1928年的记录；而在佛罗里达州阿尔玛，最高温度为6摄氏度，与1964年的记录持平。
... sights are transformed.
冰雪奇缘般的景象
No, Niagara Falls isn’t freezing over. The current is too fast for that to happen, no matter how cold it gets.
尼亚加拉大瀑布并没有结冰；水流速度如此之快，无论多冷也不会结冰。
But the sustained cold spell has created a scene that would fit snugly in Disney’s “Frozen.” The mist drifting off the falls is freezing on contact with all it touches, coating tree branches, benches and railings with a solid layer of ice.
但持续的寒潮已经创造出了迪斯尼《冰雪奇缘》般的场景。瀑布上飘荡的雾气与任何东西接触时都会冻结，树枝、长凳和栏杆上都覆盖着一层坚实的冰。
“Typically you will see this on a day or two on a much smaller scale, but at this point this cold snap has lasted for so many days, the ice is building thicker and thicker as these days continue,” said Andrea Czopp, a spokeswoman for Destination Niagara USA.
“通常情况下，你会在一两天的时间里，看到比这个规模小得多的情况；但目前，这个寒流已经持续了很多天，冰层在接下来的几天越结越厚。”
... sharks are dying.
死去的鲨鱼
In New England, officials have found several sharks frozen on the shore, their deaths possibly accelerated by the chill.
在新英格兰地区，官员发现几条鲨鱼冻结在岸边，严寒可能加速了它们的死亡。
“If you’ve got cold air, that’ll freeze their gills up very quickly,” Greg Skomal, a marine scientist for the Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries, told The New York Times. “Those gill filaments are very sensitive and it wouldn’t take long for the shark to die.”
马萨诸塞州海洋渔业部的海洋科学家格雷格·斯科马特(Greg Skomal)告诉《纽约时报》说，“冷空气会使鲨鱼鳃很快被冻住；这些鳃丝非常敏感，鲨鱼用不了多久就会死掉。”
The sharks may have gotten trapped in the waters by Cape Cod as they tried to migrate south, Mr. Skomal said.
斯科马特说，这些鲨鱼可能是在试图向南迁移时被困在科德角水域的。
... penguins are at risk.
企鹅有危险
In Canada, officials at the Calgary Zoo brought their king penguins in from an outdoor enclosure last week after temperatures fell below minus 13 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 25 Celsius).
上周，在气温降至零下25摄氏度以后，加拿大卡尔加里动物园的官员把园内的国王企鹅从户外带到了室内。
“It’s not necessarily that it’s too cold for them,” she said. “I believe that physiologically, they can withstand colder weather than what we have here, but these are not wild birds.”
“对它们来说，这还没有到太冷，”管理员马卢·切里(Malu Celli)说。“我相信在生理上，它们可以承受比现在更寒冷的天气，但它们不是野鸟。”
... dogs are wearing boots.
穿上靴子的狗
The cold has put other animals at risk as well, prompting reminders from animal shelters and animal rights groups on how to protect pets from the elements.
寒冷使其他动物也处于危险之中。这促使动物收容机构和动物权利组织做出提示，告诉大家应该如何保护自己的宠物。
In Ohio, officials with the Toledo Area Humane Society are investigating the death of a dog that was found “frozen solid,” according to The Toledo Blade. In Richmond, Va., emergency responders rescued a swan on Monday after it had gotten stuck on a frozen pond, according to local reports.
俄亥俄州一家动物权利组织正在调查一只狗被“冻僵”而死亡的事件。在弗吉尼亚州里士满，紧急救援人员于周一救出了一只被困在结冰的池塘中的天鹅。
... and memes are being born.
网上的吐槽
It may feel brutal at times, but at least some people have tried to have fun with the winter weather. On social media, some users shared photos and videos of experiments with fast-freezing bubbles and boiling water.
至少还有一些人试图在寒冷的天气里玩得开心。在社交媒体上，人们做了一些实验，让水泡和开水快速冷冻，并将照片和视频在社交网络上分享。