BRUSSELS — NATO’s foreign ministers vowed on Tuesday to strengthen the alliance’s military presence on the territory of its Eastern European members because of Russia’s military intervention in Ukraine.
布鲁塞尔——北大西洋公约组织（NATO，简称北约）成员国外长周二宣布，将加强联盟在东欧成员国领土的军事存在，这么做的原因是俄罗斯对乌克兰的军事干预。
The move came as NATO ordered an end to “all practical and military cooperation” with Russia because of the Kremlin’s annexation of Crimea and its threatening military posture near eastern Ukraine.
与此同时，由于俄罗斯政府吞并了克里米亚，以及它在乌克兰东部附近构成的威胁性军事态势，北约还下令，停止与俄罗斯的“所有日常和军事方面的合作”。
“Through its actions, Russia has chosen to undermine the very foundations upon which with our cooperation is built,” NATO’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said at a news conference here. “In light of this there can be no business as usual.”
北约秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)在布鲁塞尔的新闻发布会上说，“通过其自身行为，俄罗斯已经做出选择，决意削弱我们之间相互合作的基础。有鉴于此，不可能一切如常。”
NATO’s move codifies and expands on steps it had already taken to protest Russia’s intervention in Crimea. Mr. Rasmussen said during a recent visit to Washington that the alliance had suspended plans to escort Russian ships that are ferrying chemicals for making poison gas out of Syria and had also canceled staff-level meetings between NATO and Russian officials.
针对俄罗斯干预克里米亚的行为，北约已经展开了一系列抗议，此举是对既有抗议的规范和扩展。拉斯穆森最近访问华盛顿时说，联盟已经暂停了为俄罗斯舰船护航的计划——这些舰船正在把制作毒气的化学原料运出叙利亚，还取消了北约和俄罗斯官员间的幕僚人员级别会议。
In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Rasmussen stressed that the alliance would keep the door open for diplomatic discussions that might lead to an easing of the crisis and would also continue to work with Russia on counternarcotics and other projects in Afghanistan.
拉斯穆森周二演讲时强调说，联盟将继续为可能缓解危机的外交谈判敞开大门，同时将继续与俄罗斯在阿富汗的缉毒等项目上保持合作。
Regarding NATO’s efforts to reassure its Eastern European members, a major agenda item here, Secretary of State John Kerry and foreign ministers from other countries directed the alliance’s military command to develop a package of measures involving its air, sea and land forces.
安抚东欧的成员国是北约在这里的一项主要目标。在这一方面，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和其他国家外长要求联盟的军事指挥官制定出由联盟陆海空部队参与的一揽子措施。
Such steps could include expanding the air patrols NATO nations conduct over Baltic nations and increasing NATO’s naval presence in the Baltic Sea. The steps are also expected to include additional exercises and ways to improve the capability of NATO’s response force — which has air, land and sea units — to quickly deploy in a crisis.
此类行动可能包括，加强北约国家在波罗的海国家的空中巡逻，以及增加北约在波罗的海的海军军事存在。预计行动还将包括更多的演习，以及提高北约反应部队实力的多种方式——北约反应部队包括空军、陆军和海军部队——从而在危机关头迅速部署。
But the measures, which will involve contributions of forces by member states, fell far short of what some Eastern European diplomats said they had wanted to demonstrate the alliance’s commitment to their security.
但这些由成员国军队参与完成的措施，与一些东欧国家的外交官所期望的规模还差的很远。这些外交官说，只有达到他们期望的规模，才能证明联盟保障其国家安全的决心。
After meeting with his German and French counterparts in Weimar, Germany, on Tuesday, Radoslaw Sikorski, Poland’s foreign minister, said his country wanted the alliance to deploy two combat brigades — with as many as 5,000 troops each — in Poland.
在德国魏玛与德国和法国外长会晤后，波兰外长拉多斯瓦夫·西科尔斯基(Radoslaw Sikorski)在周二说，波兰希望联盟能在该国部署两个作战旅——每个旅有5000人。
Poland’s prime minister, Donald Tusk, delivered a similar message at a news conference in Warsaw. “We are gaining something step by step, but the pace of NATO increasing its military presence for sure could be faster,” Mr. Tusk said. “This is a unsatisfactory result for us.”
波兰总理唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)在华沙的新闻发布会上传递了类似的信息。“我们正在逐步取得进展，但北约增加军事存在的步伐毫无疑问可以更快些，”图斯克说，“我们对这个结果并不满意。”
NATO’s efforts to help Ukraine’s beleaguered military were similarly modest. A statement issued by the NATO-Ukraine Commission said the alliance would add experts to its liaison office in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, and encourage defense reforms in Ukraine.
对于被围困的乌克兰军队，北约提供的帮助同样有限。北约-乌克兰委员会(NATO-Ukraine Commission)发布的一份声明称，联盟将向位于乌克兰首都基辅的联络处增派专家，并鼓励乌克兰实施防务改革。
But some experts have urged the alliance to do much more to help Ukraine’s forces. Western officials said in recent weeks that Ukraine was seeking communications gear, mine-clearing equipment, vehicles, ammunition, fuel and medical gear, and the sharing of intelligence. Some experts have urged that the alliance do far more.
但一些专家已经敦促北约采取更多行动帮助乌克兰军方。西方官员最近几周表示，乌克兰正在寻求获得通讯设备、扫雷设备、车辆、弹药、燃料和医疗设备，以及情报共享。一些专家敦促联盟采取远远超出当前规模的行动。
The meeting of NATO foreign ministers is being held at a time of intense concern about the presence of Russian forces near Ukraine. Russia has deployed 35,000 to 50,000 troops near Ukraine, according to American estimates.
北约外长会议举行之际，俄罗斯在乌克兰附近的军事存在引发了极大担忧。据美国估计，俄罗斯在乌克兰附近部署了3.5到5万兵力。
Russia recently removed several battalions from the Rostov region, which borders Ukraine. It is unclear whether it was an effort to ease tensions or a move calculated to undermine the push in the West for tougher economic sanctions and steps by NATO to increase its military posture.
俄罗斯最近从毗邻乌克兰的罗斯托夫地区撤走了几个营。目前还不清楚此举是为了缓解紧张局势，还是一次精心策划的行动，旨在削弱西方国家的努力——西方国家正要求对其实施更严厉经济制裁，并敦促北约增加军事存在。