MOSCOW — NATO released satellite photographs on Thursday showing Russian military equipment, including fighter jets and tanks, that it described as part of a deployment of as many as 40,000 troops near the border with Ukraine. The release came the same day that President Vladimir V. Putin reiterated a threat to curtail gas sales to Ukraine.
莫斯科——北约(NATO)周四公布的卫星照片显示了包括战斗机和坦克在内的俄罗斯军事装备。北约称俄罗斯在俄乌边界附近部署了多达4万名士兵，照片上的装备便是这一部署的组成部分。在北约公布卫星照片的当天，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)再次威胁要停止对乌克兰的天然气出售。
The photographs, taken by a commercial satellite imaging company called DigitalGlobe, offered some of the first documentary evidence of a military buildup that the West says Russia could use to invade Ukraine at any moment. They were released at a news conference in Belgium by Brig. Gary Deakin, the director of NATO’s Comprehensive Crisis and Operations Management Center.
这些图片由一家名为“数字地球”(DigitalGlobe)的商业卫星成像公司拍摄，构成了首批记录证据的一部分，表明俄罗斯确在进行军事集结。西方称，俄罗斯任何时候都可以利用这些集结的兵力入侵乌克兰。这些照片是北约危机与行动综合管理中心(Comprehensive Crisis and Operations Management Center)主任加里·迪金(Gary Deakin)准将在比利时的一次新闻发布会上公布的。
The Kremlin has accused the West of exaggerating Russia’s military presence along the Ukrainian border and has insisted that it has no plans for a second military incursion after its lightning-quick occupation and annexation of Crimea. Still, Russia has warned that it may take military action to protect ethnic Russians in Ukraine if they are threatened.
俄罗斯谴责西方夸大了俄罗斯在俄乌边界沿线的军事力量，并且坚称自己无意再次发动军事入侵。此前，俄罗斯以闪电般的速度占领并吞并了克里米亚。然而，俄罗斯警告称，如果乌克兰境内的俄罗斯族民众受到威胁，俄罗斯可能会为了保护他们而采取军事行动。
Officials said they had distributed commercial photographs, rather than pictures taken by military satellites, because of the complexities of declassifying classified images.
官员称，他们之所以公布商业照片，而不是军事卫星拍摄的照片，原因在于机密图片的解密手续很复杂。
The United States government has a contractual arrangement with DigitalGlobe, based in Colorado, that allows images taken by the company to be shared among federal agencies, as well as with American allies.
美国政府与总部位于科罗拉多的“数字地球”公司之间有合同关系，这种合同关系允许联邦机构及美国盟友共享该公司拍摄的照片。
DigitalGlobe sells satellite photographs from all over the world, of sites of cultural interest as well as of military and geopolitical subjects such as a parade in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, in 2012. A spokeswoman for the company declined to comment on Thursday.
“数字地球”出售从世界各地拍摄的卫星照片，这些照片上有文化景观，也有军事和地缘政治研究对象，比如2012年在朝鲜首都平壤举行的一次阅兵式。该公司的一名女发言人周四拒绝置评。
President Obama and other Western leaders have said that Russia has massed troops and equipment along its borders and have demanded that the Kremlin withdraw those forces. The top NATO commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, said in an interview last week that Russia’s 40,000 troops could attack on 12 hours’ notice.
奥巴马总统和其他西方领导人称俄罗斯在俄乌边界集结了部队和武器装备，并要求俄罗斯撤走这些兵力。北约最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将在上周的一次采访中表示，俄罗斯的4万名士兵可以在接到命令12小时之后发起攻击。
At the news conference on Thursday, Brigadier Deakin said the photographs showed a menacing force.
在周四的新闻发布会上，迪金准将称这些照片显示了一支可怕的力量。
“The Russians have an array of capabilities, including aircraft, helicopters, special forces, tanks, artillery, infantry fighting vehicles,” Brigadier Deakin said, according to a NATO news release. “These could move in a matter of hours.”
“俄罗斯拥有包括飞机、直升机、特种部队、坦克、大炮和步兵战车在内的一系列作战力量，”迪金准将在北约的新闻稿中说，“这些力量可以在几小时之内行动起来。”
The photographs were taken between March 22 and April 2. One image shows more than 20 helicopters near the Russian city of Belgorod, about 25 miles from the Ukrainian border. Other images were taken farther from the border, including at Yeysk and Primorsko-Akhtarsk, across the Sea of Azov from Ukraine.
这些照片是3月22日到4月2日之间拍摄的。其中一幅照片显示，距乌克兰边境25英里（约40公里）的俄罗斯城市别尔哥罗德附近驻有20多架直升机。另一些照片则拍摄自距离乌克兰边境更远的地点，其中包括与乌克兰隔亚速海相望的俄罗斯城市叶伊斯克和滨海阿赫塔尔斯克。
In addition to accusing the West of exaggerating Russia’s military presence, the Kremlin said on Thursday that any stationing of NATO troops near Russia’s borders would be a violation of international agreements.
除了指责西方夸大俄罗斯的军事部署之外，俄方还在周四表示，北约在俄罗斯边境附近驻扎任何军力，都属于违反国际协定的行为。
The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said in an interview with the Interfax news service that NATO was prepared to breach those accords “in order to satisfy absolutely groundless fears, phobias and ambitions of a minority of its country members.”
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在接受俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)采访时表示，“为了应对毫无根据的担忧和恐慌、满足一小部分成员国的野心”，北约已准备违反这些国际协定。
In a letter to European leaders on Thursday, Mr. Putin warned that Russia would probably start forcing Ukraine to pay a month in advance for natural gas or risk being cut off. He said in the letter that Russia had worked aggressively in recent years to support Ukraine financially, and he accused the West of exploiting Ukraine and damaging its economy.
在周四给欧洲领导人的一封信中，普京警告称，俄罗斯或将开始逼迫乌克兰提前一个月支付天然气价款，否则就要切断对乌天然气供应。他在信中说，近些年，俄罗斯曾为向乌克兰提供财政支持而大费周章。他还指责西方剥削乌克兰，损害了乌克兰经济。
“To a large extent, the crisis in Ukraine’s economy has been precipitated by the unbalanced trade with the E.U. member states, and this, in turn, has had a sharply negative impact on Ukraine’s fulfillment of its contractual obligations to pay for deliveries of natural gas supplied by Russia,” Mr. Putin wrote, referring to the European Union.
普京写道，“从很大程度上说，乌克兰经济危机的源头是它和EU成员国之间的不平衡贸易，这种危机反过来又对乌克兰履行支付俄罗斯天然气价款的合同义务造成了严重的负面影响。”这里的EU指的是欧盟(European Union)。
He noted that Russia had offered Ukraine billions of dollars in loans. “What about the European partners?” Mr. Putin asked. “Instead of offering Ukraine real support, there is talk about a declaration of intent. There are only promises that are not backed up by any real actions.”
普京指出，俄罗斯给乌克兰提供了数十亿美元的贷款。他如是发问，“欧洲的伙伴又做了什么呢？他们在谈论签署意向书，却没给乌克兰提供任何实质性的支持。他们给出的只是没有实际行动支持的空口承诺。”
Mr. Putin said the West’s refusal to take Russia into account had left the Kremlin no choice but to demand advance payment for gas. A cutoff could threaten Europe, he added, if Ukraine tried to siphon off gas passing through its territory. Europe receives about 13 percent of its gas supply from pipelines running through Ukraine, though it has worked in recent years to reduce that dependence.
普京表示，由于西方拒绝顾及俄罗斯的意见，俄方已经别无选择，只能要求乌克兰提前支付天然气价款。他还写道，如果乌克兰试图盗取经由乌克兰境内输往欧洲的天然气，切断天然气供应的举措就可能危及欧洲。欧洲有约13%的天然气供应是由途经乌克兰的管线输送的，不过，欧洲近年已在设法减少对这条供应线的依赖。