From a new hotel beside the slopes at Jay Peak, in Vermont, to retooled lifts at Whistler-Blackcomb, British Columbia, North American mountain resorts spent the off-season bumping up the experience for skiers this winter. Curious about what’s new at your vacation spot this winter? Here’s a look.
从佛蒙特州杰伊峰(Jay Peak, in Vermont)雪道旁新开的酒店，到卑诗省惠斯勒黑梳滑雪场(Whistler-Blackcomb)重配的缆车，北美多家度假胜地都趁着淡季对设备升级换代，来取悦冬季的滑雪爱好者。想知道你最爱的度假胜地今冬有什么新鲜事儿？请看这里的概览：
Terrain Expansions
地盘扩张
A few ski areas are expanding their trail maps this winter in intriguing ways. At Breckenridge in Colorado, the addition of Peak 6 this winter adds more than 540 acres, a nearly 25 percent increase in the resort’s skiable acreage. Peak 6 will include 400 acres of lift-served terrain and 143 acres of hike-to terrain. The terrain is mostly high-alpine, intermediate bowl skiing, which isn’t easy to find.
几家滑雪场在今年冬天以有趣的方式扩张了自己的雪场地图。在科罗拉多州的布雷肯里奇(Breckenridge)，6号峰(Peak 6)在今冬新建了540多英亩的滑雪区域，雪场总面积新增近二成五。扩建之后的6号峰将有400英亩带缆车的滑雪区以及143英亩需要步行的滑雪区，大部分都是高海拔、中等难度的碗型区域，这种地形非常难得。
At Sugar Bowl Resort at Lake Tahoe, Calif., installation of the $3 million Crow’s Peak triple chairlift adds more than 150 acres of advanced/expert terrain in the Strawberry Fields area of the mountain, just below Crow’s Nest Peak, including two new groomed runs, wind-protected glades and steeps and chutes.
加州太浩湖(Lake Tahoe)的糖碗滑雪场(Sugar Bowl Resort)在乌鸦峰(Crow’s Peak)安装了价值300万美元的三椅型缆车，为这里的草莓园滑雪区(Strawberry Fields)增加了150多英亩的高级/专业雪道。草莓园滑雪区位于乌鸦颈峰(Crow’s Nest Peak)的下方，里面有新建的精致雪道、防风性能极佳的林区、雪坡和雪道。
As part of a growth spurt, Mount Bachelor, outside Bend, Ore., this year adds 646 acres of glades, bowls and natural features on the southeast flank of the mountain (conditions permitting), giving skiers a whopping 4,331 acres to choose from on all sides of the conical volcano. A chairlift is probable for next winter, so this winter the resort will limit access to the ungroomed terrain to advanced skiers who can hike out 20 minutes to the Sunrise base area.
作为扩张大潮的一部分，俄勒冈州本德市(Bend, Ore.)郊外的巴奇勒山(Mount Bachelor)今年将在山地的东南侧新增646英亩的林地型、碗型和其他天然型雪区（取决于具体条件），让该山的雪场总面积增至4331英亩并分布在这座锥形火山的每一侧。明年冬天可能还在增设一部缆车，因此今冬滑雪场会限制游客进入尚未修好的高级雪道区域，滑雪高手们则需要步行20分钟到旭日滑雪基地(Sunrise base)。
Pats Peak, in Henniker, N.H., has installed a new triple chairlift as part of an expansion into Cascade Basin, an east-facing (sunny) exposure that hasn’t been skied before. The new area consists of four new ski trails as well as a new glade and has full snow-making coverage. In Maine, Sugarloaf is adding nearly 70 acres of glade-skiing; and Sunday River, about 75 acres (glades and a terrain park).
新罕布什尔州汉尼克市(Henniker, N.H.)的帕茨峰(Pats Peak)新建了一架三椅型缆车，作为向卡斯凯德盆地(Cascade Basin)扩张策略的一部分。这座盆地朝东（晴天）的一侧以前没有修建任何滑雪场。新的滑雪场将包括4条雪道、新修的林区雪场以及全套造雪设备。缅因州(Maine)的甜面包山(Sugarloaf)准备新建近70英亩的林区雪场，星期日河滑雪场(Sunday River)将新增约75英亩（包括林区雪场和一个地形公园）的面积。
Hotels and Lodges
酒店和度假村
The Stateside Hotel at Jay Peak Resort in far northern Vermont is the third hotel to open at Jay Peak since 2009. The $25 million complex, at the base area about 50 steps from one of the resort’s main lifts, will have 85 rooms above, and below them two pubs, a restaurant, retail space, a base lodge and a rental center. Aimed at bringing new people into the sport, the hotel will offer ski-and-stay packages from $90, including room and lift ticket. Elsewhere in Vermont, the Topnotch Resort & Spa on 120 wooded acres in Stowe reopened last summer after a $15 million investment. Visitors to Topnotch (68 rooms and 23 rentable “resort homes”) will find all-new guest rooms and two new restaurants, Flannel and the Roost, both using Vermont ingredients in contemporary menus; freshened-up public spaces; and a refurbished tennis center with indoor courts.
州边酒店(Stateside Hotel)在佛蒙特州遥远北部的杰伊峰滑雪场(Jay Peak Resort)新开了一个分店，成为2009年以来在杰伊峰开张的第三个酒店品牌。这座耗资2500万美元的建筑位于山脚，距离雪场主缆车只有50步的距离。酒店的楼上约有85个房间，底楼则有两个酒吧、一家餐厅，还有零售区、低层木屋和租车中心。为了吸引更多人从事滑雪运动，酒店将推出一价全包的套餐，起价90美元，包括客房和缆车票。佛蒙特州的其他地区，斯托滑雪场(Stowe)的顶级温泉滑雪度假村(Topnotch Resort & Spa) 设在120英亩的林地上，去年获得了1500万美元的投资之后重新开业。顶级度假村包括68间客房和23套可出租的度假屋。游客到了以后，会发现除了全新的客房以外，这里还有两个崭新的餐厅（分别叫“法兰绒[Flannel]”和“公鸡[Roost]”，都使用佛蒙特本地食材烹制摩登料理）、全面翻新的公共空间以及一个重新装修的室内网球场。
In the Rockies the latest addition to Telluride Ski and Snowboard Resort in Colorado is the Inn at Lost Creek, a 32-room boutique hotel located slopeside in Telluride’s Mountain Village. The inn has ski-in/ski-out access, a ski valet to whisk away your Volkls at day’s end and rooms that each feature a washer and dryer. Snow King Hotel, steps from the center of Jackson, Wyo., has finally gotten its much-needed upgrade. The 204-room hotel, which sits at the foot of Snow King Mountain, the locals’ hill (and minutes from the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort) recently completed a $17 million transformation that overhauled its rooms, exterior and spa. The new owner has also opened a restaurant, Hayden’s Post, and added floor-to-ceiling windows that provide 240-degree views of Snow King.
落基山脉的最新进展是科罗拉多州特利莱德滑雪度假村(Telluride Ski and Snowboard Resort)的失落河客栈(Inn at Lost Creek)。 这家有32间客房的精品酒店坐落在特利莱德山庄的山坡上。客人可以滑雪进出，雪场服务员每天晚上帮你清扫装备，每间客房都有洗衣机和烘干机。位于怀俄明州杰克逊 (Jackson, Wyo.)市郊的雪王酒店(Snow King Hotel)终于做了非常需要的重修。这个有204间客房的酒店位于当地的雪王山(Snow King Mountain)的山麓，距离附近的杰克逊洞山度假村(Jackson Hole Mountain Resort)只有几分钟的距离。酒店最近豪掷1700万美元，对所有房间内饰、外墙和温泉浴池进行了全面翻新。新任老板同时开了一家叫做Hayden’s Post的饭店，并新建了一些从屋顶到地板的落地窗，让客人以240度的视野来欣赏雪王山的美景。
South Lake Tahoe is in the midst of a grand transformation, from a sort of frayed casinoland to a cleaned-up place worthy of the lake it’s on. This season’s example: The Landing Resort and Spa, which opened earlier this month. The resort, which replaces the former Royal Valhalla Lodge, is billed as the lake’s first five-star lakeside property, with 88 rooms; a restaurant with outdoor fire pits and a menu of wood-fired Greek seafood; a spa and fitness center; and a rooftop wedding site overlooking Lake Tahoe. And it’s just three blocks to the gondola to Heavenly.
太浩南湖(South Lake Tahoe)目前也在经历着一场华丽转身，准备从颓败的赌场变成一个配得上湖畔美景的洁净场所。本滑雪季的其他例子还有本月刚刚开业的码头温泉度假村(Landing Resort and Spa)。这个度假村取代了以前的皇家瓦哈拉客栈(Royal Valhalla Lodge)，成为太浩湖畔第一家五星级酒店。酒店内设88间客房、一家餐馆（有露天火炉和炭火烤的希腊海鲜）、一个温泉浴场和健身中心。楼顶的婚礼场地可以俯瞰太浩湖。这里距离Heavenly滑雪场的缆车只有三个街区的距离。
Learning
培训项目
Keeping people skiing and snowboarding (especially young ones) is a big focus now, and nearly everyone is rolling out new programs and promotions. At Tahoe, Squaw Valley’s new Teaching Tykes program is a great idea: Instructors well versed in teaching young children to ski or snowboard head out with both parent and child, giving tips to the kids while showing the parents the best way to teach them while eliminating frustration and conveying a passion for the sport. The program, aimed at ages 3 to 5, costs $169, including a one-hour lesson for parent and child, a beginner lift ticket for parent and child if age 5, (younger are already free) and kids’ ski or snowboard rentals.
让人们（尤其是年轻一代）爱上雪橇滑雪和雪板滑雪是现今业内的重点，几乎每家滑雪场都有推出了新的滑雪课程或促销活动。太浩湖斯阔谷(Squaw Valley)推出的“教孩子滑雪”(Teaching Tykes)是个不错的主意：能说会道的培训师向儿童及其父母讲授雪橇滑雪和雪板滑雪的方法和技巧，并努力减轻他们学习中的挫折感，鼓励其对滑雪运动的激情。课程面对3至5岁的儿童，价格169美元，包括父母子女一起听讲的1小时课程、初级雪道缆车票（适合父母和5岁以上的儿童，5岁以下儿童免费）以及儿童学具免费租赁。
Brighton, in Utah, is trying something novel: a girls-only terrain park. The park, Brighton’s fifth, is intended to let girls and women gain the confidence to shred (with occasional all-women’s camps and retreats) without feeling intimidated by the male-heavy presence at other parks and halfpipes. Brighton is working with Grete Elliassen, a United States Ski Team freeskier, and with Burton to design the park.
犹他州布莱顿(Brighton)正尝试推出一个新事物：只限女生入内的地形公园。这是布莱顿第五个公园，建造的目的是鼓励女性在没有男性的环境中重拾自信（偶尔会组织全女生的野营和度假之旅），因为她们在男性人数众多的公园和滑雪场常常备感压力。布莱顿的这个项目与美国自由滑雪健将格丽特·埃利亚森(Grete Elliassen)合作，由Burton公司负责公园的设计。
On-Mountain Additions
山上的新装备
This winter many resorts in the United States are swapping out older, slower lifts for faster ones with higher capacity, and adding bigger lodges. Snowbird, above Salt Lake City, is putting in the only new chairlift in Utah. The original, tired Gad 2 chairlift, which accesses challenging skiing on the west side of the mountain, is being replaced with a high-speed detachable quad, which will cut the ride time in half.
今年冬天，美国许多滑雪场都撤下速度缓慢的旧缆车，装上速度更快、容量更大的新缆车，并新建面积更大的休憩木屋。盐湖城的雪鸟(Snowbird) 滑雪场将架设犹他州唯一的新缆车。以前那个破败的嘉德2型(Gad 2)缆车（负责将滑雪者送到难度较大的西坡）将被一系列高速可分离式缆车所取代，新缆车会将乘坐时间缩短为以前的一半。
Whistler-Blackcomb, in British Columbia, spent $18 million to upgrade two chairlifts to “high-speed” status. The existing Harmony high-speed quad chairlift on Whistler Mountain was replaced with the Harmony 6 Express, a high-speed “six-pack” chairlift that goes to the same terrain, from the edge of the Symphony Amphitheater to Glacier Bowl. The Crystal Ridge Express Chair on adjoining Blackcomb Mountain, a high-speed quad, is (nearly) an entirely different lift from its predecessor. It will have a different alignment and start 500 feet lower, eliminating the need to use the Excelerator Chair to reach many trails on that part of the mountain and making it even quicker for guests to return to the Glacier Express chair for favorites like Blackcomb Glacier and Spanky’s Ladder.
卑诗省惠斯勒黑梳滑雪场(Whistler-Blackcomb)正准备耗资1800万美元将两部缆车升级换代，进入高速缆车时代。惠斯勒山以前的和谐牌(Harmony)四人快速缆车将换成和谐6号高速缆车(Harmony 6 Express)。新的缆车能坐六个人，运行路线与以前缆车一样，都是从交响乐圆形剧场(Symphony Amphitheater)到冰河碗(Glacier Bowl)。而附近黑梳山上的水晶之脊高速缆车(Crystal Ridge Express Chair)是一种高速四人缆车，与之前的缆车几乎截然不同。它的路线与以前不同，起点比之前低了500英尺，这样旅客就不用借助高升椅(Excelerator Chair)来到达山坡多条雪道的起点。此外它还让游客直接从冰河缆车去往其他热门雪区，比如黑梳冰河(Blackcomb Glacier)和斯帕基阶梯(Spanky’s Ladder)，从而大大节省游客的时间。
As part of a multiyear project to enhance its high- alpine skiing, Copper Mountain, in Colorado, replaced the Storm King platter lift with a T-bar, doubling the number of people who can get to above-treeline Spaulding Bowl, Upper Enchanted Forest and Copper Bowl. The resort also installed the entirely new Celebrity Ridge surface lift at the top of the Sierra chairlift. This lift goes to intermediate to advanced gladed terrain on Union Peak, Union Meadows, West Ridge and Copper Bowl and saves powderhounds who want to make another lap from dropping to a lower lift.
作为升级其高山滑雪场的全方位项目的一部分，科罗拉多州铜山(Copper Mountain)正将以前的风暴王(Storm King)牵拉式缆车换成T型架缆车，竣工之后将以两倍于从前的运力将乘客运送到树线之上的雪区，比如斯波尔丁雪碗(Spaulding Bowl)、上魔法森林(Upper Enchanted Forest)和铜碗(Copper Bowl)等。此外，滑雪场还在希拉牌(Sierra)座椅式缆车上方安装了全新的名人脊(Celebrity Ridge)牵拉式缆车。这家缆车会覆盖联盟峰(Union Peak)、联盟草原(Union Meadows)、西脊(West Ridge)和铜碗(Copper Bowl)的中级和高级林区雪场，滑雪迷们就不必下车转乘另一座海拔较低的缆车了。
In Alaska, Alyeska Resort, outside Anchorage in Girdwood, has installed a high-speed detachable quad, Glacier Bowl Express, to replace beloved Chair 6, which accesses the upper trails at Alyeska and is considered by many the heart of the area.
阿拉斯加安克雷奇(Anchorage)郊外格伍德(Girdwood)的阿尔耶斯卡滑雪场(Alyeska Resort)新装了一部高速分离式四人缆车“冰川碗高速”(Glacier Bowl Express)，来取代之前广受热爱的“6号椅”(Chair 6)。新缆车可以到达阿尔耶斯卡高处被许多人视为该区域核心卖点的雪道。