WASHINGTON — As Ukrainian leaders warned on Monday of “a great war” with Russia, NATO leaders meeting in Wales this week were expected to endorse their most concrete response yet to increased Russian military intervention in Ukraine: establishing a rapid-reaction force capable of deploying quickly to Eastern Europe, officials of the alliance said.
华盛顿——乌克兰领导人本周一警告说，有可能与俄罗斯之间爆发“大战”，而北约领导人本周将在威尔士进行峰会，预计将批准一个协议，以便对俄罗斯进一步军事干预乌克兰的状况，做出迄今为止最具实质性的回应：建立一支能够迅速部署到东欧的快速反应部队，北约官员说。
The new force of some 4,000 troops, capable of moving on 48 hours’ notice, will be supported with logistics and equipment pre-positioned in Eastern European countries closer to Russia, with an upgraded schedule of military exercises and deployments that are intended to make NATO’s commitment of collective defense more credible and enhance its deterrence.
这支大约由4000人组成的新部队，能够在接到通知后48小时开展行动，其后勤保障和装备预先部署在比较接近俄罗斯的东欧国家，它还采用了一张升了级的军事演习和部署时间表，其目的是为了增进北约集体防御承诺的可信度和威慑力。
The agreement is planned as the substantive centerpiece of the NATO meeting, which will take place Thursday and Friday and will be attended by President Obama, who will also stop in Estonia before the summit meeting. His aides said the trip was intended to highlight the United States’ commitment to NATO, and the alliance’s determination to protect all 28 members from aggression — from Moscow or elsewhere.
按照计划，该协议将是这次北约峰会的实质性核心议题；本次峰会将在周四、五召开，奥巴马总统将会出席；开会之前，他还将访问爱沙尼亚。奥巴马的助手说，此行的目的是强调，美国对于北约的承诺，以及北约保护所有28个成员国免受侵略的决心，无论侵略是来自莫斯科还是别的地方。
“The summit is very important because Russia thought it can change the borders of a sovereign European country by force, and this is happening not very far from NATO’s borders,” said one of Mr. Obama’s proud Estonian hosts, Prime Minister Taavi Roivas. “The security situation has changed, and we need to rethink our plans and reinforce our allies, so we can be 101 percent sure that all member states are equally and strongly protected.”
“此次峰会非常重要，因为俄罗斯认为，它可以通过武力改变一个欧洲主权国家的边界，这种事情就发生在离北约的边界不远的地方，”其中一位接待了奥巴马的骄傲东道主、爱沙尼亚总理塔维·罗伊瓦斯(Taavi Roivas)说。“安全形势发生了变化，我们需要重新思考计划，并支援我们的盟友，这样我们就可以101%地肯定，所有成员国都处于强有力的同等保护之下。”
The sense of urgency was highlighted by events in Ukraine on Monday, as President Petro O. Poroshenko accused Russia of military aggression to alter the battlefield. “Direct, unconcealed aggression has been launched against Ukraine from a neighboring country,” he said, according to the presidential website. “It radically changes the situation in the conflict area.”
乌克兰本周一发生的一些事情，突显了事态的紧迫；据总统网站称，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)指责俄罗斯的军事侵略行动改变了战地局势，“一个邻国对乌克兰发起了直接的、毫不掩饰的侵略，”他说。“这从根本上改变了冲突地区的局势。”
Ukraine’s defense minister, Valeriy Heletey, was more emphatic. “A great war has arrived at our doorstep, the likes of which Europe has not seen since World War II,” he said in a Facebook post. And Col. Andriy Lysenko, spokesman for the National Security and Defense Council, said Monday that Ukrainian forces had withdrawn from the airport near Luhansk in the face of a Russian Army tank battalion, and that seven Ukrainian soldiers had been killed in the last 24 hours. Russia regularly denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine.
乌克兰国防部长瓦列里·谢列特(Valeriy Heletey)的措辞更加明确。“一场大战已经进逼到了我们的家门口，自二战以来，欧洲还没有出现过这样的状况，”他在Facebook的文章中说。乌克兰国家安全和国防委员会发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)周一表示，在遭遇俄军坦克群后，乌克兰军队已经从卢甘斯克附近的机场撤退，七名乌克兰士兵在过去24小时内阵亡。俄罗斯则照例对派兵进入乌克兰东部一事予以了否认。
For Mr. Obama, the trip is a chance to show Europeans that he is dedicated to NATO at a time when Russia is challenging the postwar European order, built on the principle of no border changes by force.
对于奥巴马而言，此行是一个机会：在俄罗斯对战后欧洲秩序进行挑战的时候，向欧洲人证明他对北约的尽心竭力；战后欧洲秩序的原则是不能用武力改变国家边界。
“The tension you’re seeing between Russia and the West is going to be put on display in Wales, and the president is going to be leading that effort,” said Ivo H. Daalder, the previous American ambassador to NATO and now head of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. Mr. Obama, he said, “wants to reaffirm the unity and strength of the alliance.”
“俄罗斯和西方之间的紧张关系，将在威尔士充分展现出来，奥巴马将领导应对它的行动，”伊沃‧H·达尔德尔(Ivo H. Daalder)说，他曾是美国驻北约大使，现在是芝加哥全球事务委员会(Chicago Council on Global Affairs)的负责人。他表示，奥巴马“想明确重申北约的团结一致和实力”。
NATO leaders are trying this week to reassure allies that the commitment to collective defense, in NATO’s Article 5, is solid. The alliance wants to show that it means what it says and will have the capability to defend its most vulnerable members against Russian aggression, whether overt or more covert, or a hybrid, of the two, as in Ukraine.
北约领导人本周将设法安抚盟友，让他们相信北约第五条款(Article 5)中的集体防御承诺是靠得住的。北约希望显示，自己能够说到做到，而且有能力保护两个最容易受到俄罗斯侵略的成员国，无论这种侵略是公开的还是隐蔽的，或者两者皆有，就像在乌克兰那样。
“The really ironic aspect here is that a re-energized, restrengthened NATO is Vladimir Putin’s worst nightmare, and yet it’s his tactical actions that have done just that,” said James G. Stavridis, who was NATO’s commander from 2009 to 2013 and is dean of the Fletcher School at Tufts University, referring to Russia’s president.
“最具讽刺意味的是，一个重新焕发活力、增强力量的北约，将是普京最怕的噩梦，但恰恰是他的战术行动导致了这种情况的发生，”詹姆斯·G·斯塔夫里迪斯(James G. Stavridis)在谈到俄罗斯总统时说，他曾在2009年至2013年期间任北约司令，现在是塔夫茨大学弗莱彻学院(Fletcher School at Tufts University)院长。
It is also an opportunity for Mr. Obama, buffeted by a cascade of international crises, to rally Europeans into what Secretary of State John Kerry has called a “global coalition” to confront an increased terrorist threat from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and other radical Islamist groups in Africa.
这也为奥巴马提供了一个机会，让他在遭受一连串国际危机的沉重打击之后，把欧洲国家凝聚起来，成为国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)所说的“全球联盟”，一起对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）以及位于非洲的其他激进伊斯兰组织日益加剧的恐怖主义威胁。
Though ISIS is not on the formal agenda for the summit meeting, Mr. Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel will meet European counterparts to develop a strategy to counter ISIS.
虽然ISIS不属于该峰会的正式议程，但克里和美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)将与欧洲同行会晤，制定一项对付ISIS的战略。
But the emphasis will be on Russia. As both American and European leaders weigh additional sanctions against Moscow, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the NATO secretary general, said Monday in Brussels that the new rapid reaction force “will ensure that we have the right forces and the right equipment in the right place, at the right time.”
但重点将会是俄罗斯。就在美国和欧洲领导人考虑进一步制裁莫斯科之际，北约秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)本周一在布鲁塞尔表示，新的快速反应部队“将确保我们在恰当的时间，把恰当的部队和恰当的装备，调遣到恰当的地方”。
Numerous leaders of NATO countries have said that any hope of achieving the “strategic partnership” with Russia envisioned as long ago as the 1990 NATO summit was finished because of Russia’s annexation of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine. Nevertheless, NATO is being careful not to violate the NATO-Russia Founding Act, the 1997 agreement with Moscow under which NATO pledged not to permanently base substantial forces in Eastern Europe.
北约国家的很多领导人都表示，由于俄罗斯吞并克里米亚和侵略乌克兰东部，与俄罗斯实现“战略伙伴关系”的希望已经破灭，那个设想早在1990年北约峰会上就曾提出。不过，北约小心翼翼地避免违反与莫斯科在1997年签订的协议《北约-俄罗斯关于相互关系、合作与安全的基本文件》(Nato-Russia Founding Act)，根据该协议，北约承诺不会在东欧永久性驻扎大量军队。