Six weeks before a critical summit meeting aimed at bolstering NATO’s deterrence against a resurgent Russia, the alliance is facing a long list of challenges. The first is to find a country to lead the last of four military units to be deployed in Poland and the three Baltic nations.
北大西洋公约组织(NATO)即将召开一场至关重要的峰会，旨在增强对力量复苏的俄罗斯的威慑。时间还剩六周，但该组织却面临一长串的挑战。首先需要找到一个国家领导即将部署在波兰和三个波罗的海国家的四支部队中的最后一支。
But that, analysts say, could be the least of its problems.
然而，分析人士表示，这可能是所有挑战中难度最小的一个。
Security concerns are as high now as they have been since the end of the Cold War. As the immigration crisis has strained relations within the Continent, anxieties have been heightened by Russian military offensives in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, and a bombing campaign in Syria that has demonstrated Moscow’s rapidly increasing capabilities. Lately, Russia has talked openly about the utility of tactical nuclear weapons.
自冷战结束以来，当下是有关安全问题的担忧最深的时刻。移民危机令欧洲各国之间关系紧张的同时，焦虑情绪也在进一步加重：俄罗斯军队不仅入侵了克里米亚和乌克兰东部，它在叙利亚的轰炸行动也证明了该国军事力量的迅速增强。最近，俄罗斯还开始公开谈论使用战术核武器。
Despite the growing threats, many European countries still resist strong measures to strengthen NATO. Many remain reluctant to increase military spending, despite past pledges. Some, like Italy, are cutting back. France is reverting to its traditional skepticism toward the alliance, which it sees as an instrument of U.S. policy and an infringement on its sovereignty.
尽管面临与日俱增的威胁，许多欧洲国家却依然拒绝采取有力措施来加强北约的力量。许多国家依然不愿增加军费开支，哪怕它们此前曾许下承诺。意大利等国还在削减这方面的开支。法国恢复了对北约组织惯有的怀疑态度，认为该组织是执行美国政策的工具，是对法国主权的侵犯。
And that is not to mention the declarations of the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump, that NATO is “obsolete,” that the allies are “ripping off” the United States and that he would not really be concerned if the alliance broke up. While that may be campaign bluster, it does reflect a growing unwillingness in the United States to shoulder a disproportionate share of the NATO burden, militarily and financially.
更不用说，稳获共和党总统提名的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)宣称北约“已经过时”，这个联盟是在“剥削”美国，就算北约解散，他也并不会为之担忧。尽管这有可能只是选战中的虚张声势，但它的确反映出美国越来越不愿意在军事和财务上在北约组织中背负过大的责任。
The current concern, and a major element of what the NATO secretary-general, Jens Stoltenberg, calls “the biggest reinforcement of collective defense since the end of the Cold War,” is the decision to put four combat battalions of up to 1,000 soldiers each in those front-line countries bordering Russia.
当务之急是执行将每支至多1000人的四支作战营部署到与俄罗斯接壤的前线国家这一决定。这也是被北约秘书长延斯·斯托尔滕贝格(Jens Stoltenberg)称为“自冷战结束以来最大规模的集体防御巩固行动”的一个重要方面。
While Britain, Germany and the United States have agreed to lead one battalion each, to be filled out with soldiers from other NATO allies to preserve the idea of multinational forces, leadership of the fourth is not yet in sight as the July 8-9 summit meeting in Warsaw rapidly approaches.
英国、德国和美国已经同意各领一支部队，但第四支部队的领导国还没有出现，而计划于7月8-9日在华沙举行的峰会很快就将到来。这些部队将由来自北约其他成员国的士兵组成，以符合多国部队的理念。
The United States “is not thinking about doing two,” said its ambassador to NATO, Douglas E. Lute. “We’re planning to do one and get our allies to step up” for the other three.
美国“不打算领导两支部队，”该国驻北约大使道格拉斯·E·卢特(Douglas E. Lute)表示。“我们计划领导一支，让我们的盟友承担领导”另外三支部队的“任务”。
But other larger nations like Italy and France have declined. Italy cut military spending after pledging to increase it two years ago in Wales. Its leaders say it is already participating in a newly enlarged alliance rapid-reaction force.
但是，意大利和法国等其他较大的国家予以拒绝。两年前，意大利曾在威尔士承诺增加军费开支，如今却做出了削减这项开支的举动。其领导层表示，意大利已经在参与建设一支新近扩大的北约快速反应部队。
The deployments are important, because these combat battalions are designed not to be simple tripwires, but to be large enough and sufficiently well equipped to do an invader real damage. Then they can be reinforced more quickly with the enhanced rapid-reaction force — another NATO and American decision is to station an added U.S. armored combat brigade of around 5,000 soldiers in Europe (for a total of three) and to preposition its heavy equipment like tanks and artillery.
这项部署非常重要，因为这些作战营的存在不只是作为绊网，而是有较大的规模、有十分精良的装备，足以对入侵的敌人实施真正的打击。而且，他们还可以更加快速地获得实力增强的快速反应部队的增援——北约和美国的另一项决定是在欧洲额外部署一支人数约5000的美国装甲战斗旅（加在一起是三支），会配备坦克和大炮等重型装备。
Poland is demanding that some of that equipment be prepositioned on its territory, but for the moment, most of it will go to Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, which have storage and transport facilities dating from the Cold War.
波兰要求将其中一些军事装备部署在它的境内，不过目前的计划是它们大多会放在德国、比利时与荷兰。这些国家拥有可以追溯至冷战时期的存储和运输设施。
Only now, in fact, is NATO actually surveying the infrastructure — the bridges, roads and railways — of relatively newer member states in Central and Eastern Europe, not having judged it necessary before to plan how to quickly reinforce them in case of a Russian invasion. Prepositioning in Eastern Europe would currently require large sums for capital investment to build special new warehouses and infrastructure, Lute said.
实际上，北约直到现在才真正开始检测中欧和东欧一些比较新的成员国的基础设施——桥梁、公路和铁路。在认真考虑如何在俄罗斯入侵的情况下快速增援这些国家之前，北约一直不觉得有检测的必要。卢特表示，眼下在东欧部署兵力，需要投入大量资金建设特殊的新仓库和基础设施。
Poland, eager to send messages to Moscow, did succeed in advancing groundbreaking for a ballistic missile defense site to coincide with the operational opening of one in Romania. While Stoltenberg and Washington insist that such missile defenses are not aimed at Russian intercontinental ballistic missiles, Moscow is not convinced.
波兰渴望向俄罗斯释放信号，成功推进了一个弹道导弹防御基地的破土动工，以便与罗马尼亚启用的一个类似基地同步。尽管斯托尔滕贝格和华盛顿坚称，部署此类导弹防御系统不是针对俄罗斯的洲际弹道导弹，但莫斯科并不相信这种说法。
NATO is trying to reassure vulnerable members like the Baltic States, Poland and even southern members, like Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey on the Black Sea, that the alliance intends to deliver on its promise of collective defense. Missile defense is part of the response, along with more naval exercises in the Black Sea and more consistent overflights by reconnaissance aircraft.
北约正在努力消除一些易受攻击的成员国的顾虑，让他们相信北约有意兑现集体防御的承诺。这些成员包括波罗的海国家、波兰，甚至还包括黑海沿岸的罗马尼亚、保加利亚和土耳其等南部成员国。部署导弹防御系统是兑现该承诺的一种行动，此外北约还会在黑海进行更多海军演习，也将派遣更多侦察机在这些区域上空进行持续的飞行。
As Stoltenberg points out, the effect of Russian policy has finally pushed European members of NATO to at least halt the decades-long decline in military spending. This year, he said, estimates are that European allies will as a whole increase military spending, something the U.S. has been demanding, even though most are not yet spending the 2 percent of GDP that is the NATO guideline.
就像斯托尔滕贝格指出的，俄罗斯采取的政策终于促使北约的欧洲成员国至少停止了持续几十年的军事开支削减。他表示，预计美国的欧洲盟友今年将在整体上增加军事开支。这是美国一直在要求的，尽管这些国家的军事开支大多不及本国GDP的2%，没有达到北约的要求。
Some 16 of the 28 member states have increased military spending in real terms, with only Italy, Bulgaria and Croatia still cutting, although they insist that the cuts are temporary.
北约28个成员国中的大约16个在提高实际军费支出，只有意大利、保加利亚和克罗地亚还在削减，不过三国坚称削减是暂时的。
“I know the mood in Washington and I understand it: the Americans want to see the Europeans doing more, contributing more,” Stoltenberg said. “This has been my main message in European capitals.”
“我知道，也能理解华盛顿的想法：美国想看到欧洲做出更多努力，更多贡献，”斯托尔滕贝格说。“这也是我在欧洲各国传达的主要讯息。”
Still, there is another troubling Russia-related issue for NATO — how to deal with a new Russian military doctrine that considers the utility of tactical nuclear weapons at the beginning of a conflict, as a deterrent against an adversary retaking territory, followed by what planners call “a quick de-escalation.”
不过，北约还存在另一个与俄罗斯有关的麻烦——如何应对新的俄罗斯军事准则。这一准则考虑在冲突之初便使用战术核武器，威慑敌人，使之不敢收复阵地，之后再进行被策划者称为“快速降温”的措施。