WASHINGTON — Barack Obama won the presidency by exploiting a political environment that devoured George W. Bush in a second term plagued by sinking credibility, failed legislative battles, fractured world relations and revolts inside his own party.
华盛顿——贝拉克·奥巴马之所以赢得总统之位，是利用了当时的政治环境：乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的第二个任期深陷泥潭，受到信誉下降、立法斗争失败、国际关系出现罅隙及本党内部反叛的困扰。
Mr. Obama is now threatened by a similar toxic mix. The disastrous rollout of his health care law not only threatens the rest of his agenda but also raises questions about his competence in the same way that the Bush administration’s botched response to Hurricane Katrina undermined any semblance of Republican efficiency.
现如今，奥巴马也受到了类似的不良组合的威胁。医保法案的灾难性首秀不仅威胁到他的其他议程，还让人们对他的能力提出质疑，就像布什政府对“卡特里娜”飓风(Hurricane Katrina)的拙劣应对让共和党在效率方面的形象丧失殆尽一样。
But unlike Mr. Bush, who faced confrontational but occasionally cooperative Democrats, Mr. Obama is battling a Republican opposition that has refused to open the door to any legislative fixes to the health care law and has blocked him at virtually every turn. A contrite-sounding Mr. Obama repeatedly blamed himself on Thursday for the failed health care rollout, which he acknowledged had thrust difficult burdens on his political allies and hurt Americans’ trust in him.
不过，布什面对的民主党人虽说咄咄逼人，却也偶有合作。与之不同的是，奥巴马对抗的共和党反对派拒绝为任何修复医保法案的立法开启大门，并且几乎在每一处都对他设置了障碍。周四的时候，懊恼不已的奥巴马因医保出师不利而反复自责。他承认，这件事给政治盟友带来了巨大的负担，也损害了美国民众对他的信任。
“It’s legitimate for them to expect me to have to win back some credibility on this health care law in particular and on a whole range of these issues in general,” Mr. Obama said. The president did not admit to misleading people about whether they could keep their health insurance, but again expressed regret that his assurances turned out to be wrong.
“在医保法案这件事，以及笼统而言的各种问题上，他们希望我来赢回一些信任。这样的期待很合理，”奥巴马说。他没有承认误导民众，让他们认为可以保留以前的医保方案，不过他对自己的保证被证明有误而表达了遗憾。
“To those Americans, I hear you loud and clear,” Mr. Obama said as he announced changes intended to allow some people to keep their insurance.
“对那些美国人，我清晰地听到了你们的呼声，”奥巴马宣布旨在允许部分人保留医保方案的改进措施时说。
But earning back the confidence of Americans, as he pledged to do, will require Mr. Obama to right more than just the health care law. At home, his immigration overhaul is headed for indefinite delay, and new budget and debt fights loom. Overseas, revelations of spying by the National Security Agency have infuriated American allies, and negotiations over Iran’s nuclear arsenal have set off bipartisan criticism.
奥巴马承诺，要赢回美国民众的信任。然而，这将需要奥巴马不只是矫正医保法案。对内，他的移民改革面临无限期延后，而新的预算和债务危机又逐步逼近。对外，国家安全局(National Security Agency)的监控行为曝光，惹恼了美国的盟友，而围绕着伊朗核武器的谈判又招致了两党的批评。
For the first time in Mr. Obama’s presidency, surveys suggest that his reserve of good will among the public is running dry. Two polls in recent weeks have reported that a majority of Americans no longer trust the president or believe that he is being honest with them.
奥巴马的总统任期里，民意调查首次显示，公众对他的善意正在耗竭。最近几周的两次民调表明，多数美国人不再信任奥巴马，或是不再认为他对民众以诚相待。
“When you start losing the trust and confidence, not only of Congress, but the American people, that makes it even more difficult,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia. “You can work yourself out. But you have to be sincere, and you have to be honest.”
来自西弗吉尼亚州的民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)说，“当你开始丧失信任和信心，不光是国会的、还有美国民众的信任和信心，就更加艰难了。你可以努力拯救自己，但你得真心、得坦诚。”
The difficulties have put Mr. Obama on the defensive at exactly the moment he might have seized political advantage in a dysfunctional Washington. If not for the health care disaster, the two-week shutdown of the government last month would have been an opportunity for Mr. Obama to sharpen the contrast with Republicans. Democratic lawmakers expressed growing frustration on Thursday with the opportunities the party has missed to hammer home the ideological differences between the two parties. The lawmakers say there is intensifying anxiety within the Democratic caucus that the poor execution of the health care law could bleed into their 2014 re-election campaigns.
这些困难让奥巴马处于守势，而这个当口他本可以抓住华盛顿运转不灵而带来的政治优势。要不是医保灾难，上个月持续两周的政府停摆事件本来是奥巴马的一个机会，可以突显与共和党人的区别。周四的时候，一些民主党议员表达了日益加深的沮丧之情，因为本党丧失了大书特书两党之间意识形态差异的机会。这些人称，民主党议员中有一种越来越强烈的焦虑情绪，担心医保法案糟糕的执行会一直影响到他们2014年的连任竞选。
Republicans readily made the Hurricane Katrina comparison. “The echoes to the fall of 2005 are really eerie,” said Peter D. Feaver, a top national security official in Mr. Bush’s second term. “Katrina, which is shorthand for bungled administration policy, matches to the rollout of the website.” Looking back, he said, “we can see that some of the things that we hoped were temporary or just blips turned out to be more systemic from a political sense. It’s a fair question of whether that’s happening to President Obama.”
共和党很乐意拿“卡特里娜”飓风作比。“这与2005年秋天的相似之处真的惊人，”布什第二届任期的高级国家安全官员彼得·D·菲弗(Peter D. Feaver)说。“‘卡特里娜’成了失误的政府政策的代名词，正符合医保网站首秀后当前的状况。”他说，回首往事，“我们会发现，从政治角度来看，有些问题我们希望是临时的或短暂的，但事实会证明它们其实更普遍地存在于整个体系中。这种情况是不是正发生在奥巴马总统身上？我们有权这么问。”
The president’s top aides vehemently reject the comparison of Mr. Obama’s fifth year in office to the latter half of Mr. Bush’s second term. They say Americans lost confidence in Mr. Bush because of his administration’s ineptitude on Hurricane Katrina and its execution of the war in Iraq, while Mr. Obama is struggling to extend health care to millions of people who do not have it. Those are very different issues, they said.
总统的高级助理们强烈反对把奥巴马上台的第五年比作布什第二届任期的后半段。他们说，美国人民对布什失去信心是因为布什政府应对“卡特里娜”飓风不力，以及它在伊拉克战争中的所作所为，而奥巴马正试图让医保覆盖到数百万现在不享受医保的人。他们表示，两者完全不是一回事。
“I’m always very leery of these apocalyptic predictions,” said David Axelrod, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama.
“我一直非常怀疑这些世界末日式的预言，”奥巴马的前高级顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说。
Senior White House officials are nonetheless in crisis mode over the failure so far of what was supposed to be the president’s most significant legislative achievement. “We get that it is a big deal for him, for the law, for the Democrats who voted for him,” said Jennifer Palmieri, the White House communications director. “We are taking it deathly seriously.”
医保法案本应成为奥巴马总统最重要的立法成就，但因为首秀的失败，白宫高级官员截至目前一直处于危机状态。“我们知道，这对总统、对这项法律、对支持总统的民主党人意义重大，”白宫通讯联络主任珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)说。“我们非常重视。”
Some Democrats are warning their colleagues against a rush to count Mr. Obama out prematurely. Steve Elmendorf, who was an influential Democratic aide on Capitol Hill in President Bill Clinton’s second term, insisted that Mr. Obama would recover and thrive, much like Mr. Clinton did.
一些民主党人告诫同僚不要过早放弃奥巴马。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)第二届任期内颇具影响力的国会民主党助理史蒂夫·埃尔门多夫(Steve Elmendorf)坚持认为，奥巴马会恢复并强大起来，就像克林顿当年那样。
That message was echoed in a memo that Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York, distributed to his colleagues during a caucus meeting on Wednesday. In the memo, Mr. Israel, who is the head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said coming clashes with Republicans over the budget and the debt would once again play to the strengths of Democratic candidates.
在周三举行的一次党团会议上，纽约州民主党众议员史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)将一份备忘录分发给了同僚，其中传达了同样的讯息。身为民主党国会竞选委员会(Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee)主席的伊斯雷尔在备忘录中表示，即将与共和党在预算和债务问题上展开的对决又将是民主党候选人展现优势的时机。
In an interview, Mr. Israel said that he was confident that the administration would be able to put Mr. Obama’s current troubles behind it. “The website will get fixed,” Mr. Israel said. “The issue with insurance policies has been addressed.”
接受采访时，伊斯雷尔表示自己相信奥巴马政府有能力解决他当前的难题。“网站会得到修复，”伊斯雷尔说。“保单问题已经着手解决了。”
Still, the president’s own words on Thursday betrayed a realization inside the White House that for all his travails over the last five years, this situation could be different.
然而，总统自己周四说的话揭示出，白宫内部意识到，尽管他在过去五年里经历了很多难题，这一次可能会不一样。
Never before has Mr. Obama been as hard on himself and his staff in describing failures of both policy and politics. He repeatedly apologized and said that the criticism of the health care rollout was more justified than criticism of him in the past.
在说到政策和政务上的失败时，奥巴马对自己和手下从未这么严厉过。他反复道歉，称对医改法案首秀的批评比过去对他的批评更合理。
“There were times I thought we got slapped around unjustly,” the president said. “This one is deserved. It’s on us.”
“我过去不止一次地觉得我们受到了不公正的苛责，”总统说。“但这一次是罪有应得。是我们的错。”