BOSTON — When scientists made the stunning announcement last year that a baby born with H.I.V. had apparently been cured through aggressive drug treatment just 30 hours after birth, there was immediate skepticism that the child had been infected in the first place.
波士顿——去年，科学家宣布了一则令人震惊的消息，称有名先天携带人类免疫缺陷病毒(HIV)的婴儿经过出生仅30个小时后即开始的高强度治疗被治愈。随后，立即有人质疑这个孩子可能根本就没有被感染。
But on Wednesday, the existence of a second such baby was revealed at an AIDS conference here, leaving little doubt that the treatment works. A leading researcher said there might be five more such cases in Canada and three in South Africa.
但是，周三在这里召开的一个艾滋病(AIDS)研讨会上宣布发现了另一个情况相同的婴儿，基本证明这种治疗方案是有效的。一位主要研究员说，加拿大可能还有五个这样的病例，南非有三例。
And a clinical trial in which up to 60 babies who are born infected will be put on drugs within 48 hours is set to begin soon, another researcher added.
另一名研究员说，他们即将展开临床试验，届时将有60个先天感染艾滋病的婴儿在48小时内接受药物治疗。
If that trial works — and it will take several years of following the babies to determine whether it has — the protocol for treating all 250,000 babies born infected each year worldwide will no doubt be rewritten.
如果临床试验有效——还要花数年时间来对这些婴儿进行跟踪调查，才能决定是否已经治愈——那么用来治疗世界上每年25万个新生受感染婴儿的方案无疑将被改写。
“This could lead to major changes, for two reasons,” said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, executive director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “Both for the welfare of the child, and because it is a huge proof of concept that you can cure someone if you can treat them early enough.”
“这将带来巨大的变化，原因有两条，”美国国家过敏及传染性疾病研究所(National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)所长安东尼·S·福奇(Anthony S. Fauci)表示。“这都是为了孩子们的健康，因为这个证据强有力地证明，只要治疗足够及时，就能将病人治愈。”
The announcement was the third piece of hopeful news in two days about a virus that causes AIDS.
围绕着这种导致艾滋病的病毒，这是两天里传出的第三个令人振奋的消息。
On Tuesday, scientists reported that injections of long-lasting AIDS drugs fended off infection in monkeys, and on Wednesday researchers announced a “gene editing” advance that might enable immune cells to repel the virus.
科学家周二发布报告称，在猴子体内注射长效艾滋病药物能够抵御感染；周三，研究人员宣布一种“基因编辑”技术的进步可能会使免疫细胞获得抵御病毒的能力。
The first infant to make an apparent recovery from H.I.V. infection, now famous as the “Mississippi baby,” was described last March at the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, the same annual meeting where the new case was reported on Wednesday.
去年3月，逆转录病毒和机会性感染大会(Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections)介绍了第一个似乎已从HIV感染中康复的婴儿，即如今已被传为佳话的“密西西比婴儿”，周三报告新病例的也是这个年度会议。
The Mississippi child, now more than 3 years old, is still virus-free, said Dr. Deborah Persaud, a virologist who has run ultrasensitive tests on both children in her lab at the Johns Hopkins Children’s Center in Baltimore.
黛博拉·珀萨阿德博士(Deborah Persaud)说，那个密西西比的孩子现在已经3岁多了，目前仍未发现携带病毒。作为滤过性病原体学者的珀萨阿德在她位于巴尔的摩约翰·霍普金斯儿童中心(Johns Hopkins Children's Center)的实验室对这两个孩子进行了超灵敏测试。
The second baby, a girl born at Miller Children’s Hospital in Long Beach, Calif., is now 9 months old and apparently free of the virus that causes AIDS.
另一个婴儿是出生在加州长滩米勒儿童医院(Miller Children’s Hospital)的一个女婴，她现在9个月大，看起来也没有携带会引发艾滋病的病毒。
Her mother, suffering from both advanced AIDS and mental illness, arrived in labor; she had been prescribed drugs to protect her baby but had not taken them.
她的母亲患有晚期艾滋病和精神疾病，在即将临盆时来到医院；医生给她开了保护婴儿的药，但是她没有服用。
Four hours after the birth, a pediatrician, Dr. Audra Deveikis, drew blood for an H.I.V. test and immediately started the baby on three drugs — AZT, 3TC and nevirapine — at the high doses usually used for treatment of the virus.
在生产四小时后，儿科医师奥德拉·德韦基斯(Audra Deveikis)抽取血液进行了HIV测试，并立即开始用三种药物——AZT（叠氮胸苷）、3TC（拉米夫定）和奈韦拉平——对这个孩子进行治疗，并采用了治疗这种病毒时常用的高剂量。
The normal preventive regimen for newborns would be lower doses of two drugs; doctors usually do not use the more aggressive treatment until they are sure the baby is infected, and then sometimes not in the first weeks.
新生儿通常使用剂量较低的两种药物进行预防；医生在确定婴儿受感染前，一般不会使用强度更大的治疗方案，而且通常不会在最初几周。
“Of course I had worries,” Dr. Deveikis said in an interview here. “But the mother’s disease was not under control, and I had to weigh the risk of transmission against the toxicity of the meds.”
“当然我也会担心，”德韦基斯在这里接受采访时说。“但是母亲的病情是没有得到控制的，我必须在传染的可能性和药物的毒性之间权衡。”
“I’d heard of the Mississippi baby, I’d watched the video,” she added. “I knew that if you want to prevent infection, early treatment is critical.”
“我听说过密西西比婴儿，也看过录像，”她还说。“我知道，如果你想防止感染，早期的治疗将非常关键。”
The Long Beach baby is now in foster care, she said. The mother is still alive as well.
她说那名长滩婴儿目前已被寄养。她的母亲也还活着。
It is incorrect to describe the baby as “cured” or even as “in remission” because she is still on the drugs, Dr. Persaud said. But because the most sensitive blood tests can find no virus capable of replicating, she describes the baby as “having sero-reverted to H.I.V.-negative.”
珀萨阿德说，要说这名婴儿已经“治愈”是不正确的，甚至还不能说病情“在缓解”，因为她还在继续用药。但由于最敏感的血液测试也找不到能够进行复制的病毒，她将这名婴儿的状态描述为“血清HIV转阴”。
Both DNA and RNA of the virus were found in the baby’s early blood and spinal fluid samples, so Dr. Persaud said it was virtually certain she was infected at birth. The virus began to disappear six days after birth and was undetectable within 11 days.
但是从这名婴儿的早期血样和脊髓液中，找到了这种病毒的脱氧核糖核酸(DNA)和核糖核酸(RNA)，所以珀萨阿德说，基本上可以确定她在出生时就已感染。她出生六天后，病毒开始消失，11天后已无法测出。
It is considered medically unethical to stop the baby’s drugs now, but Dr. Deveikis and Dr. Yvonne J. Bryson, a pediatric AIDS expert at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is also working on the case, said they would consider stopping them briefly to see what happens if the baby is still virus-free at age 2.
从医学角度来说，现在停止为这名婴儿用药将是不道德的，但是德韦基斯博士和共同参与这项治疗工作的加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)儿科艾滋病专家伊冯娜·J·布赖森(Yvonne J. Bryson)博士都表示，她们会考虑暂停用药，来观察这名婴儿到两岁时是否依然不带病毒。