She was one of the most highly sought radiologists in her hospital, a doctor with the uncanny ability to divine the source of maladies from the shadows of black and white X-ray films.
她是医院里人气最高的放射科医生之一，一个拥有超凡能力、能从黑白的X光片阴影中辨别疾病来源的医生。
But one afternoon my colleague revealed that she had been named in a lawsuit, accused of overlooking an irregularity on a scan several years earlier. The plaintiff suing believed my colleague had missed the first sign of a now rampant cancer.
但是在一天下午，我的这位同事说，她被人告了，对方指控她在几年前一次检查时，忽略了一处不规则的阴影。原告病人认为，这名医生忽视了自己现已扩散的癌症的最初信号。
While other radiologists tried to assure her that the “irregularity” was well within what might be considered normal, my colleague became consumed by the what-if’s. What if she had lingered longer on the fateful film? What if she had doubled-checked her reading before signing off on the report?
尽管别的放射科医生想要说服病人，她的这处“不规则”阴影完全是在通常认为的正常范围内，但我的同事还是开始为无数个“如果”而殚精竭虑。如果她能多看看这张至关重要的片子，结果会怎样？如果她能在签字前，反复查看影像片子，结果会怎样？
She began staying late at the hospital to review, and review again, her work. And she worried about her professional reputation, asking herself if colleagues were avoiding her and wondering if she would have trouble renewing her license or hospital privileges. At home she felt distracted, and her husband complained that she had become easy to anger.
她开始在医院里待到很晚，一遍遍地检查自己的工作。她开始忧虑自己的职业声望，怀疑同事们在故意躲着她，担心今后续办执业资格证或者申请医院特权时会不会遇到麻烦。回到家后，她也总是心不在焉，丈夫抱怨说她变了个人，动不动就发火。
After almost a year of worry, my colleague went to court and was cleared. But it was, at best, a Pyrrhic victory. “I lost year of my life,” she told me. “That lawsuit completely consumed me.”
在担惊受怕了快一年后，我的这位同事上了法庭，而对她的所有指控也都被驳回。但这顶多算是一场惨胜。“我失去了一年的光阴，”她对我说，“这场官司让我身心俱疲。”
She was not the first colleague to recount such an experience. And far from overstating the issue, doctors may in fact be underestimating the extent to which malpractice not only consumes their time but also undermines their ability to care for patients, according to a new study in Health Affairs.
她并不是第一个讲述这种遭遇的同事。而且根据《卫生事务》(Health Affairs)刊登的一篇新研究，可以说医生们全然没有夸大这种问题，相反，医生群体也许是低估了职业过失指控的严重程度，这些指控不仅占据了他们的时间，而且也影响了其悉心照顾病人的能力。
For more than 150 years, the medical malpractice system has loomed over health care, and doctors, the vast majority of whom will face a lawsuit sometime in their professional lives, remain ever vocal in their criticism of the system. But with few malpractice claims resulting in payments and liability premiums holding steady or even declining, doctors have started to shift their focus from the financial aspects of malpractice to the untold hours spent focused on lawsuits instead of patient care.
医疗职业过失体系在过去的150多年时间里，一直高悬于医疗保健之上，而医生群体始终对这种体系持公开批评的立场，绝大多数医生在行医生涯中的某个时刻，都会吃一场官司。不过，由于只有很少的职业过失指控最终会被判赔款且责任保险费稳中有降，医生们已经开始将注意力从职业过失的经济层面，转向为官司投入的无法估量的时间层面，而这些时间，他们本来是可以用来为病人服务的。
Now researchers are putting numbers to those doctors’ assertions. For the current study, they combed through the malpractice claims records of more than 40,000 doctors covered by a national liability insurer. They took note of the length of each claim, any payments made, severity of the injury and the specialty practiced by the physician being sued.
而现在，研究人员对医生们所指出的时间损失给出了具体的数字。在这项近期开展的研究中，他们梳理了针对四万多名医生提出的医疗职业过失指控卷宗，这些医生都加入了美国的责任保险计划。研究者记录了每起诉讼消耗的时长、支付的赔偿金、原告受伤害的严重程度，以及每位医生所属的专业。
Most claims required almost two years to resolve from initiation of the lawsuit — and almost four years from the event in question. Cases that resulted in payment or that involved more severe patient injuries almost always took longer.
大部分指控从提起诉讼起到结案，需要将近两年的时间，而从出现可疑的医疗事件到结案，则需要近四年的时间。最终需要向原告给予赔付，或者导致病人遭受较严重伤害的官司，所要消耗的时间通常都会更加漫长。
The researchers then looked at the proportion of a doctor’s career spent on an open claim. They discovered that on average, doctors spent more than four years of their careers — more time than they spent in medical school — working through one or more lawsuits. Certain specialists were more vulnerable than others. Neurosurgeons, for example, averaged well over 10 years, or more than a quarter of their professional lives, embroiled in lawsuits.
研究人员随后查看一次开放式权利要求所花费时间在医生职业生涯中所占的比例。结果发现，平均来说，医生为了解决一起或多起诉讼，需要将行医生涯中四年多的时间投入其中——这比他们读医学院的时间还要长。某些分科的医生比其他科室更容易惹上官司。比如说，神经外科医生花在诉讼上的时间，平均为10年以上，超过了他们整个行医生涯的四分之一。
“These findings help to show why doctors care so intensely about malpractice and what they might face over the course of a lifetime,” said Seth A. Seabury, lead author and a senior economist at the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif.
“这些发现有助于解释为什么医生会对职业过失的指控极度在意，而且也能说明他们在这一生中所可能面对的问题，”该研究的主要作者、位于加利福尼亚州圣莫尼卡的兰德公司(RAND Corporation)高级经济学家塞斯·A·希伯瑞(Seth A. Seabury)说。
The results also underscored what plaintiffs must endure. Previous studies have shown that when medical errors occur, patients prefer to have physicians acknowledge the mistake quickly and apologize as soon as possible. Though less than 5 percent of all errors lead to a malpractice claim, lengthy claims drag out the process and, in certain cases, hold up what may be appropriate compensation.
研究也强调了原告方所要面对的境遇。此前已有多项研究表示，一旦出现了医疗事故，病人更希望医生能尽快承认自己的错误并道歉。尽管在所有医疗事故中，只有不到5%导致病人提出了职业过失指控，但漫长的诉讼会让索赔过程变得遥遥无期，而且在某些案件中，原本合理的赔偿请求也可能被拖延。
Patients not directly involved can be affected as well. A legitimate malpractice lawsuit sometimes results in doctors or even entire institutions changing how they practice in order to prevent similar events. Lengthy legal wrangling can slow down these potentially important improvements.
那些并没有直接卷入官司中的病人，也有可能会受到牵连。一起合理的职业过失诉讼有时会导致医生乃至整个机构改变操作方式，以避免类似事件再度发生。而冗长的法律纷争也会延滞那些潜在的重大进步。
While the findings are only an indirect measure of the extent to which malpractice claims can affect doctors’ and patients’ lives, the study makes clear the importance of considering time, as well as cost, when looking at malpractice reform.
尽管这些发现只是在衡量职业过失诉讼对医患双方的影响方面，提供了一个间接的估量标准，但这项研究也清晰地表明了职业过失诉讼改革的重要性，因为花在上面的时间和金钱成本太高了。
“If we could get these cases resolved faster, we might be able to improve the efficiency of the system, lower costs and even improve quality of care for patients,” Dr. Seabury said.
“如果能够更快地解决这些案件，或许我们就能提高这一体系的效率，降低费用，甚至还能改善为患者提供服务的质量，”希伯瑞博士说。
“Having these things drag on is a problem for doctors and patients.”
“官司迟迟不能落定，这对医生和病人来说都是个问题。”