Are doctors nicer to patients who aren’t fat?
医生对身材没有发福的病人会更客气吗？
A provocative new study suggests that they are — that thin patients are treated with more warmth and empathy than those who are overweight or obese.
一项具挑衅意味的新研究发现，他们的确如此——相比超重或肥胖的病人，苗条的病人会得到医生更多的温情与善意。
For the study, published in the medical journal Obesity, researchers at Johns Hopkins obtained permission to record discussions between 39 primary care doctors and more than 200 patients who had high blood pressure.
研究发表在医学期刊《肥胖》(Obesity)上。在研究中，约翰·霍普金斯大学医学院(Johns Hopkins)的研究者得到许可，获准记录39位基础保健医生和200多位高血压病人之间的对话。
Although patients were there to talk about blood pressure, not weight, most fell into the overweight or obese category. Only 28 were of normal weight, meaning they had a body mass index below 25. Of the remaining patients, 120 were obese (B.M.I. of 30 or greater) and 60 were classified as overweight (index of 25 to 30).
尽管看病的人来这里讨论的都是血压而不是肥胖问题，但大多数人都属于超重或肥胖人群。只有28人体重正常，即身体质量指数(body mass index, BMI)在25以下。而在其余病人中，有120人肥胖（BMI指数达到30或更高），有60人属于超重（指数在25到30之间）。
For the most part, all of the patients were treated about the same; there were no meaningful differences in the amount of time doctors spent with them or the topics discussed.
总体来说，每位病人都得到了医生同等的治疗；在医生问诊的时长或讨论的话题方面，并没有显著的差别。
But when researchers analyzed transcripts of the visits, there was one striking difference. Doctors seemed just a bit nicer to their normal-weight patients, showing more empathy and warmth in their conversations. Although the study was relatively small, the findings are statistically significant.
但当研究人员分析问诊的记录时，却发现了一个惊人的差异。在对待体重正常的病人时，医生看来要客气一点，在交流中流露出了更多的善意和温情。尽管研究规模相对较小，但研究结果具有统计学意义。
“It’s not like the physicians were being overtly negative or harsh,” said the lead author, Dr. Kimberly A. Gudzune, an assistant professor of general internal medicine at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. “They were just not engaging patients in that rapport-building or making that emotional connection with the patient.”
“并不是说医生的态度明摆着更加负面或严苛，”研究第一作者，约翰·霍普金斯医学院普内科助理教授金伯利·A·古德祖恩(Kimberly A. Gudzune)说，“他们只是在与病患建立信任或取得情感联系时，对超重病人显得不那么热心。”
In conversations with patients of normal weight, the doctors offered simple comments to show concern — for example, “I’m glad you’re feeling better” to a woman who had experienced hot flashes. When a normal-weight patient had trouble getting an appointment with a specialist, her doctor shared her concerns. “I agree with you,” the doctor said. “That gets extremely frustrating when that happens.”
在与体重正常的病人交流时，医生们会发表简短评论以示关切。比方说，在面对一位曾遇到过潮热发作的女病人时，医生说：“听说你感觉好多了，我也很高兴。”一位体重正常的病人诉说，她很难预约上一位专科医生，她的基础保健医生表示理解，“没错，”医生说，“碰到这种事真是没法子啊。”
Another patient lamented a scar on her leg after surgery and the ugly shoes she was forced to wear. “You went through a lot,” the doctor told her, adding compliments to lift her spirits. “You still got great legs. Chunky shoes are still in. Get something pretty, something for spring. That always makes you feel good.”
另一位病人抱怨说，手术给她的腿留下了一条伤疤，只能靠穿难看的鞋子遮掩。“你确实遭了罪，”医生说，随即又夸了病人两句，好让她开心点。“你的腿还是美得很啊。现在仍然流行款式厚重的鞋。你可以去买些好看的东西，买些春季正时兴的。这肯定会让你高兴起来。”
While such expressions of concern and empathy are not remarkable on their own, what was surprising was how absent they were in conversations with overweight and obese patients.
孤立来看，这类关心与友善的话语并不太引人注意——让人意外的实则是，在医生面对超重和肥胖病人时，这类话语是多么稀少。
And statements like these are no small thing. Studies show that patients are far more likely to follow a doctor’s advice and to have a better health outcome when they believe their doctor empathizes with their plight.
而且这类表述并非小事。研究表明，如果病人相信自己的医生真切同情自己的遭遇，他们更有可能遵守医生的建议，也会取得更佳的疗效。
“When there is increased empathy by the doctor, patients are more likely to report they are satisfied with their care, and they are more likely to adhere to recommendations of physicians,” Dr. Gudzune said. “There is evidence to show that after visits with more empathy, patients have improved clinical outcomes, so patients with diabetes have better blood sugar control or cholesterol is better controlled.”
“如果医生表现出更强烈的同情心，病人更有可能会对医生的医疗服务感到满意，也更有可能遵守医嘱，”古德祖恩医生说，“有证据表明，在看了较有同情心的医生后，病人的临床结果有所改进，这样一来，糖尿病患者在控制血糖或胆固醇方面可以做得更好。”
Dr. David L. Katz, director of the Yale-Griffin University Prevention Research Center, says that overweight patients often complain to him that doctors appear judgmental about their weight, at the expense of other health concerns.
耶鲁-格里芬大学预防研究中心(Yale-Griffin University Prevention Research Center)主任大卫·L·卡兹医生说，超重的病人常跟他抱怨说，医生往往会置其他健康问题于不顾，而对其体重说三道四。
“You come in with a headache, and the doctors say, ‘You really need to lose weight.’ You have a sore throat, and the doctor says, ‘You really need to lose weight,’ ” he said. “These patients feel like the doctor doesn’t help them and they insult them, and so they stop going.”
“你是因为头痛去看病，医生却说，‘你真应该减减肥了。’你觉得嗓子疼，医生却说，‘你真应该减减肥了，’”卡兹说：“这些病人感觉医生非但没有带来帮助，反而侮辱了自己，于是就不再去看病了。”
In dealing with patients who are overweight, Dr. Katz added, doctors often show the same biases and prejudices as the culture at large. The problem may be compounded by the fact that doctors are trained to deal with immediate medical problems that have specific solutions, like a pill to lower blood pressure or emergency treatment for a heart attack. But obesity is a far more complex problem that isn’t easy to solve, and that can be frustrating to doctors.
卡兹医生进一步说，医生在面对超重的病人时，往往会表现出与整个文化别无二致的偏见与歧视。问题还可能会复杂化，因为医生接受的训练决定了他们在碰到医学问题时需要给出明确的解决对策，比如开一种药来降血压，或者在碰到心肌梗死时进行急救。但肥胖是一个更为复杂的问题，没法轻易解决，这会让医生们心生沮丧。
“When we can’t fix what is broken we tend to behave badly,” he said.
“在我们修复不了坏了的东西时，往往会应对得很差劲，”他说。
Dr. Katz said his grandmother, who was obese, was so tired of physicians’ negative comments about her weight that she stopped going to the doctor altogether, even when she developed a breast tumor. When she finally sought treatment, she had advanced-stage breast cancer and died in her 50s.
卡兹医生说他的祖母当年也患有肥胖症，因为医生总是批评她太胖，她干脆彻底不去看医生了，在得了脑瘤后依然如此。在她终于下决心要看病时，她的病情已经恶化为晚期乳腺癌，在50多岁时就病故了。
“Every time she went to the doctor for any reason, they wagged a finger at her and talked about her weight,” Dr. Katz said. “We need to understand that the stakes are very high.”
“每次她因为各种情况去看病时，医生总是会挥舞着手指说起她的体重，”卡兹说，“我们应该认识到，这个厉害关系是十分重大的。”
The solution, he said, is better training so that medical students and doctors understand the complex nature of obesity as well as their own (perhaps subconscious) biases. Yale, for one, offers a continuing education program for doctors on compassionate and effective lifestyle counseling for patients.
他认为，解决之道是要更好地训练医科生和医生，让他们理解肥胖复杂的性质和个人的偏见（或许这种偏见是潜意识里的）。比方说耶鲁就向医生提供了一个有关同情心的继续教育课程，同时向病人提供行之有效的生活方式咨询。
“I think a lot of them are compassionate and don’t realize this is going on,” Dr. Katz said. “The antipathy for obesity is really rooted in our culture. We should expect better from doctors and train them better.”
卡兹说：“我认为很多医生都怀有同情心，并未意识到出了什么问题。对肥胖的憎恶其实根植在我们的文化中。我们应期待医生做出更好的表现，并给予他们更好的培训。”