The next time a New York City developer seeks permission to replace a derelict factory with a shimmering condo tower, the heated swimming pool and sky-lit roof lounge will have to be accompanied by another amenity: affordable housing.
下一次，纽约市的开发商要想申请将废弃工厂改建为光鲜亮丽的共管公寓大厦，配上温水泳池和带天窗的屋顶休息室，那么他们就必须附加一个设施：保障性住房。
In the most forceful remarks yet of an administration determined to reshape the cityscape, Mayor Bill de Blasio’s top planning official declared on Friday that affordable units will be a requirement for any future real estate project requiring a zoning change from the city.
市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)的规划高官于周五（9月5日——译注）宣布，今后凡是需要市政府改变区划类型的地产项目，都需要留出部分住房作为保障房源。这是这个决意重塑都市景观的政府，截至目前所发表过的最强硬的言论。
The mandate will apply not only to neighborhood-wide redevelopments, like the earlier transformation of industrial Williamsburg into a residential mecca, but also to individual projects, as when a developer needs a waiver to graft stories onto an apartment tower in Midtown.
这项硬性要求，将不仅仅适用于住宅区规模的在建项目，例如此前作为工业区的威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)向居住圣地的转化，还将适用于单体建筑项目——比如开发商需要获得豁免，才能在中城区(Midtown)加高一栋公寓楼。
“You can’t build one unit unless you build your share of affordable housing,” Carl Weisbrod, chairman of the City Planning Commission, told a packed room of landlords, planners and investors at a New York Law School breakfast on Friday. “You can’t build just market-rate housing, period.”
“除非你建造足够多比例的保障房，否则你一个单元都建不了，”在纽约法学院(New York Law School)周五的一次早餐会上，城市规划委员会主席卡尔·维斯布罗德(Carl Weisbrod)对挤满一间屋子的房屋出租者、规划师和投资人说，“你不能只建市价房，就是这样。”
Aides to Mr. de Blasio, who has pledged to create or preserve 200,000 affordable units in the next decade, have signaled for months that mandates for developers were on the way. But Mr. Weisbrod’s comments provided the clearest glimpse yet of what the city’s plan would mean in practice for the real estate industry, which is still wary of a mayor who has presented a lofty vision for future development but has provided few details on how he plans to achieve it.
白思豪已承诺，在接下来十年里，将增建或保留20万套保障房。几个月来，其副手已多次暗示，针对开发商的强制性要求正在拟定当中。但是到目前为止，维斯布罗德的言论释放了最清晰的信号，可以从中一窥市政府的计划将给房地产业带来何种实际影响。房地产业目前依然对市长心存警惕，因为他虽然对未来的发展目光高远，但是没怎么提供细节来说明自己打算如何实现这一设想。
New York City underwent immense change during the Bloomberg years, when thickets of new condos cropped up across Brooklyn and Queens. Few developers, however, opted to include affordable units, despite tax incentives and other subsidies dangled by the last administration. A report last year estimated that of 21,000 new housing units built as an outgrowth of major city zoning changes since 2005, only about 13 percent of the units, about 2,700, were affordable housing.
在布隆伯格(Bloomberg)当政时期，纽约市经历了巨大的变化，新的共管公寓在布鲁克林和皇后区如雨后春笋般涌现。但是，尽管上届市政府出台了减税、补贴等鼓励措施，仍少有开发商选择将保障性住房纳入开发项目当中。去年发布的一项报告估计，自2005年来，由于城市区划的重大变动而新建的2.1万套新住宅单元当中，只有13%——大约2700套是保障房。
Opting out is now off the table, Mr. Weisbrod said on Friday.
维斯布罗德周五表示，现在已经没有选择性退出的余地了。
“There will be a minimum that the developer has to do without subsidy,” Mr. Weisbrod said, noting that affordable units would be a baseline requirement for new projects that require a zoning change. “It’s mandatory.”
“开发商将至少要在没有补贴的情况下建造一定数量的单位，”维斯布罗德说，他指出，对于需要变更区划的新项目而言，保障房将成为一个基准要求，“这是硬性规定。”
Surprising some audience members, Mr. Weisbrod said the requirements would apply not only to neighborhood-wide residential zoning changes, but also to virtually every apartment project of six or more stories that city planners must approve. (Projects not requiring a rezoning would still be allowed to rise without adding affordable units.)
让一些听众吃惊的是，维斯布罗德说，这项要求将不仅适用于社区规模的住宅区划变动，还将适用于城市规划部门需要批准的、几乎所有六层以上公寓建筑项目（不需要改变区划的项目，仍可不包含保障房单元）。
Still, much of the city’s housing plan, which calls for the building of 80,000 affordable units and the preservation of 120,000, remains shrouded. Mr. Weisbrod said an initial plan would be revealed by year’s end. The mandate would take effect by the fall of 2015, though the rules could be held up by a series of public reviews.
尽管如此，市政府的住房计划还有很大一部分尚未披露。该计划呼吁增建8万套、并保留12万套保障房。维斯布罗德说，一份初步的计划将在年底公布。而上述硬性规定将在2015年秋季前生效，只不过法规出台前还需征求公众意见。
In the interim, private projects would still be subject to the same new standards, which will prevent developers from rushing construction to avoid including affordable units. Astoria Cove, a 1,700-unit project along the East River in Queens, is the first such project under review to opt into the zoning program at the behest of the administration.
在过渡阶段，同样的新标准对私人项目依然适用，这将防止开发商为逃避预留保障房的规定而抢建项目。Astoria Cove是在市政府的命令下达后，首个纳入区划范围的此类待审批项目，位于皇后区东河河畔，包含1700个单元。
Mr. de Blasio’s team declined to say which neighborhoods they were examining as potential sites for large-scale redevelopment, except East New York, Brooklyn, which was announced in May. These communities could gain hundreds or thousands of units of affordable homes.
除了布鲁克林的“东纽约”(East New York)，白思豪的团队不肯透露他们目前正在考察哪些潜在的大规模再开发社区。“东纽约”是今年5月宣布的再开发项目。这些社区，可能会新增成百上千、乃至成千上万套保障房单元。
But an official involved in internal discussions said that among the areas that planners are considering for zoning changes were East Harlem around Park Avenue, a stretch of Inwood along the Harlem River, both in Manhattan, and the eastern section of Long Island City in Queens. The changes would allow for higher density of residential buildings.
不过据参与内部讨论的一名官员透露，规划部门考虑变更区划类型的地区包括：东哈莱姆区(East Harlem)的公园大道(Park Avenue)一带、哈莱姆河河畔的茵伍德(Inwood)一带——两者都位于曼哈顿；此外还有皇后区的长岛市东部。改变区划后，住宅楼的密度可以变得更大。
The official requested anonymity to describe private conversations that have been zealously guarded by the administration, which does not want to publicize the sites before it can hold discussions with residents in each neighborhood.
这位不愿透露姓名的官员表示，上述消息源于私下的交谈。市政府口风很紧，不愿在同每个社区的居民交涉之前，将地点公之于众。
While some developers are wary of Mr. de Blasio’s new rules, many liberal housing advocates believe he is not going far enough. They say the administration should demand that a higher proportion of units in new developments be reserved for low- and middle-income residents.
虽然有些开发商对白思豪的新法规存有疑虑，但是许多自由派保障房支持者认为，他走得还不够远。他们说，市政府应该要求新的开发项目将更高比例的住宅预留给中低收入居民。
The administration is eager to dispel those doubts, and Mr. Weisbrod’s comments on Friday were greeted warmly by advocates.
市政府正在努力打消这些疑虑。维斯布罗德周五的言论受到了保障房支持者们的热烈欢迎。
“They’re definitely going in the right direction,” said Jaron Benjamin, director of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, who has called for at least 50 percent of units in new buildings to be affordable. The Bloomberg administration set the affordability standard of 20 percent of units; the new mayor has vowed to aim higher but has not said how high.
“他们肯定走对了方向。”大都会住宅委员会(Metropolitan Council on Housing)的会长贾瑞恩·本杰明(Jaron Benjamin)说。本杰明曾经呼吁，新建楼盘中至少应有50%的单元是保障房。布隆伯格政府曾把保障房单元的比例标准设定在20%；而新市长已承诺提高这一标准，但并未说明具体会提高到多少。
Privately, some developers expressed skepticism about the administration’s plan, fearing that the requirements would make it financially difficult to build. While few in real estate criticize the mayor publicly, Mr. Weisbrod acknowledged those concerns, saying the industry was a necessary partner.
对于市政府的计划，有些开发商私下表露了怀疑的态度。他们担心，市政府的要求会导致房屋建设在资金上遇到困难。虽然很少有地产界人士公开批评市长，但维斯布罗德明白这些担忧，他说，业界人士是必要的合作伙伴。
In his speech, Mr. Weisbrod said the administration would take steps to ease the bureaucratic burden on developers, such as speeding up the public review process and rolling back other onerous regulations. And he pledged that planning officials would consider new projects on the merits when determining how many affordable units should be included.
维斯布罗德在讲话中表示，市政府将采取措施，减轻官僚主义给开发商造成的负担。比如加快开发项目的审批速度，减少其它繁文缛节的规章。他承诺，规划官员会根据新项目自身的优缺点来进行审批，决定其中应包含的保障房单元数量。