The Paris of grand monuments, stately boulevards and haute cuisine is justly famous. But the city is also the hub of the world’s fifth-largest economy, with more than two million people grappling with 21st-century problems of global competitiveness, immigration and assimilation, and a chronic shortage of affordable housing.
巴黎——拥有宏大的纪念碑、宽阔的林荫道以及高超烹饪技术的巴黎，是如此的闻名遐迩。但这座城市同时也是世界第五大经济中心，其间超过200万的人口正在与全球竞争力、移民与同化以及保障性住房长期短缺等21世纪的问题做斗争。
In response, the city government has begun an ambitious program of large-scale, mixed-use developments on the periphery. The goals are twofold: creating an engine for economic growth while preserving the Belle Époque Paris beloved by tens of millions of tourists; and integrating the prosperous city with struggling inner-ring suburbs, or banlieues.
为了应对这些问题，巴黎市政府已开始实施一项宏伟的计划，对周边地区进行大规模的综合开发。此开发项目具有双重目标：其一，创造一个经济增长引擎，同时保留数千万观光客们所钟爱的“优美时代的巴黎”(Belle Époque Paris)；其二，把这座繁华的城市与其周边的近郊整合起来。
Though France, and much of Europe, remains mired in economic malaise, one such development, the Clichy Batignolles project in northwest Paris, is gaining momentum this year after more than a decade of planning.
虽然法国以及欧洲的大部分地区依然陷在经济萧条的泥沼中，这样一个开发项目——也就是巴黎市北部的克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒(Clichy Batignolles)项目——在筹划了十年之后，已经于今年开始，势头变得越来越强劲了。
The first residents moved in last fall, the second phase of a much-loved and much-needed park is close to completion, an office complex that will be owned by the New York real estate company Tishman Speyer is seeking tenants, and site preparation is nearly done for a soaring courthouse designed by Renzo Piano’s studio that will be one of the tallest buildings in Paris.
第一批居民已于去年秋季搬了进来。在二期工程中，一个倍受人们喜爱和需要的公园即将完工，一栋为纽约房地产公司铁狮门(Tishman Speyer)所有的综合办公楼正在招租，一座由伦佐·皮亚诺工作室(Renzo Piano’s studio)设计的法院大楼的选址工作也已接近尾声，这座大楼将成为巴黎最高的建筑之一。
Mr. Piano first made his mark in Paris with the radical Pompidou Center in the mid-1970s. He acknowledged that the courthouse and the Clichy Batignolles project were taking Paris in a different direction — but a necessary one, he argued in an interview at his Paris workshop.
20世纪70年代中期，皮亚诺凭借蓬皮杜艺术中心(Pompidou Center)，在巴黎初次留下了印记。他认为，这座法院大楼和克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒项目将把巴黎带往一个完全不同的方向——但也是一个很有必要的方向，他在巴黎工作室中接受采访时这样说道。
“We are celebrating a shift in the history of the town,” he said. “We are bringing the fertilizing elements to the periphery. You are changing something, and changing something is not easy.”
“我们即将为巴黎的历史性转变而欢庆，”他说，“我们将把繁荣的因素带往周边地区。你在改变着什么，但改变的过程并不容易。”
By the numbers, the 133-acre project is impressive for any city: 12,700 projected jobs; 3,400 housing units, subsidized and market-rate; 1.5 million square feet of office space; 410,000 square feet of public facilities, including schools; 334,000 square feet of shops and services — and 90 courtrooms and offices to accommodate some 8,000 people a day in the 524-foot-tall courthouse.
这个占地面积133英亩（约53.8万平方米）的项目，凭借以下数据，放在任何一座城市里都会让人刮目相看：12700个项目相关的工作岗位；3400套有补助金或市场价格补贴的住宅单元；410000平方英尺（约3.8万平方米）的公共设施，包括数所学校；334,000平方英尺（约3.1万平方米）的店面与服务设施——还有一栋包括90间审判庭及办公室、每天可容纳约8000人的524英尺（约160米）高的法院大楼。
Garbage and recyclables will be collected with a system of pneumatic tubes, sharply cutting emissions and odors. Buildings with “green” roofs with vegetation, slabs of photovoltaic cells and geothermal heating point to an ambitious goal of carbon neutrality.
废弃物与可回收垃圾将由一个气动管道系统来收集，以杜绝泄漏与异味。各栋楼都有种着蔬菜的“绿色”屋顶、铺着光伏电池的墙面及地热供暖系统，旨在达到碳中和(carbon neutrality)的宏伟目标。
The project will offer commuters and residents a range of transportation options, including two new Metro stations, an extension of the tramway that nearly circles the city, a regional rail station and a 600-space underground parking garage.
该项目将会为通勤者和居民们提供一系列交通方式以供选择，包括两个新的地铁站、一段几乎环绕整座城市的电车轨道的延长线、一座区内火车站，还有一片有600个车位的地下停车场。
But Paris being Paris, the prospect of high-rise offices, glossy apartment blocks and a large influx of low-income housing has not been received with great enthusiasm.
但巴黎就是巴黎，人们不会热情洋溢地去接纳高耸的办公大楼、光亮的公寓建筑，以及低收入者住房大量涌入的景象。
Brigitte Kuster, the maire, or mayor, of the 17th Arrondissement, protested that the area already had a large amount of subsidized housing, said Hubert Jamault, her chief of staff. Ms. Kuster, he said, “is not against the construction of social housing, but she does not want all the difficulties to be concentrated in the same place.”
身为巴黎市17区的区长，布丽奇特·库斯特(Brigitte Kuster)提出了反对，她认为这里已经有大量保障性住房了。库斯特的办公室主任休伯特·哈毛尔特(Hubert Jamault)说道，“库斯特不是反对修建社会保障房，她只是不想让所有的困难都集中在同一个地方。”
Now, he said, after a petition drive, appeals to the city council and “numerous” public meetings with the city, her concerns have largely been addressed.
他说，现在，在民众发起一次请愿活动，向市议会和巴黎“无数”的公众会议提出呼吁之后，她的关切已经基本上落实了。
The decision to allow buildings up to 50 meters tall (about 160 feet) “has been the subject of a broad dialogue with local residents,” said Anne Hidalgo, a deputy mayor of Paris and a champion of the project. (The courthouse is an exception.)
决定是否允许建筑物的高度超过50米（大约160英尺），“已经成为与本地居民广泛对话的一个主题，”巴黎市副市长和该项目（除了法院大楼）的支持者安妮·希达尔戈(Anne Hidalgo)说道。
Ms. Hidalgo, a leading candidate for mayor in elections next year, said the height of the buildings would be in proportion to the park — similar to Central Park in New York — and would allow for innovative architecture, and views and light for inhabitants.
希达尔戈是明年市长竞选的主要候选人。她说，建筑物的高度应该与公园——类似纽约市的中央公园——成一定比例；而且应该考虑到创新式建筑，以及附近居民的采光与视野。
“I’m quite happy with the results,” Ms. Hidalgo said via e-mail, “which offer Paris a new neighborhood that is ecological, a pleasant place to live, innovative in all ways, very Parisian, and resolutely turned toward the future.”
“我对结果感到十分满意，”希达尔戈在电子邮件中说道，“该项目给巴黎提供了一个全新的社区，那里有良好的生态环境，有愉快的生活，处处让人耳目一新，很有巴黎的味道，而且果断面向未来。”
Clichy Batignolles, named for the adjoining neighborhoods, was first planned in 2001 under Mayor Bertrand Delanoë of Paris and Ms. Hidalgo, said Didier Bailly, director general of Paris Batignolles Aménagement, the corporation formed to oversee much of the project.
“克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒”是根据相邻的几条街区取的名字，该项目最初于2001年开始筹划，领头人是巴黎市长贝特朗·德拉诺(Bertrand Delanoë)和希达尔戈。巴黎Batignolles开发公司(Paris Batignolles Aménagement)的总经理迪迪埃·贝利(Didier Bailly)说道。该公司负责该项目大部分工程的监管工作。
In the subsequent years, transportation, housing and office components were added, and — reminiscent of the Hudson Yards development in Manhattan — the site became a centerpiece of Paris’s bid for the 2012 Olympics, which were captured by London.
在随后那些年里，交通、住宅以及办公设施都逐步完善起来，于是该地成为巴黎申请2012年奥林匹克运动会主办地的一个亮点——让人想起曼哈顿的哈德逊庭院(Hudson Yards)开发项目，但主办权最后被伦敦获得。
By 2008, Mr. Bailly said, all the components of the project were in place with the deal to build the courthouse. That year, though, the persistent recession that the French call “la crise” struck.
到了2008年，贝利说道，该项目的各个环节都已就位，包括修建法院大楼的合同。但是那一年，法国开始发生被称为“大危机”(la crise)的持续经济衰退。
“The crisis means that investors are extremely demanding,” Mr. Bailly said. “They have means, but they’re very attentive to how it’s invested; they want to ensure the safety of their investment.”
“这场危机意味着，投资者们都变得极其苛刻，”贝利说，“他们虽然有钱，但对于怎样用那些钱做投资都非常审慎；他们想确保投资的安全性。”
Some developers have delayed building in Clichy Batignolles, hoping that the market will improve. No large commercial tenants have yet committed to the project.
一些开发商已经推迟了克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒的施工，希望市场会有所改善。还没有大型的商业租户与该项目签约。
Tishman Speyer, for one, is confident enough in the project, and the French economy, to have invested about 200 million euros (about $260 million) in two office buildings — even before work started and any tenants had signed on. The project, called Pont Cardinet, will offer a total of about 25,000 square meters (about 270,000 square feet) of office space and is expected to be finished early next year.
但铁狮门是个例外。他们对这个项目和法国经济都信心十足，并且已对其中两栋写字楼投资了大约2亿欧元（约合人民币15.7亿元）——即使写字楼尚未开始运转，也还没和任何租户签约。这个叫做“卡迪内桥”(Pont Cardinet)的项目，将提供总计约25000平方米的办公空间，有望在明年初完工。
Michael P. Spies, the head of European operations for Tishman Speyer, declined to say what asking rents would be, except to say they would be at a “substantial discount” to rents in central Paris, which can exceed 800 euros a square meter (about $100 per square foot).
铁狮门的欧洲运营主管迈克尔·P·斯拜斯(Michael P. Spies)拒绝透露租金要价会达到多少，只说他们会给出一个在巴黎市中心区算得上“相当优惠”的价格，那就是说，可能超过每平米800欧元（约合每平米人民币6520.64元）。
“This has been in the making for many, many years,” Mr. Spies said, “and now its time has come.”
“我们已经酝酿了很多很多年了，”斯拜斯说道，“现在时候到了。”
Leasing is being handled in part by CBRE, which hopes to have tenants by the end of the year, said Laurent Lehmann, the head of marketing for CBRE in France. He described the Paris office market as “not too bad,” adding that rents were at or slightly below 2011 levels, and that landlords were still offering incentives like free rent periods or upgrades to spaces.
物业出租的部分工作由世邦魏理仕（CBRE）负责。他们希望年底就有租户，法国世邦魏理仕的市场部主管劳伦·莱曼(Laurent Lehmann)说道。他说巴黎的写字楼市场“还不错”，并补充说，目前的租金与2011年水平持平，或者略微低一点，房东还在提供一些激励措施，比如免费出租期或空间扩展。
A report by CBRE found that average rents for new or renovated offices in the Île de France region, which includes Paris, declined by 1.3 percent year over year, to 295 euros per square meter (about $36 per square foot) as of Jan. 1. Rents in the most desirable buildings in central Paris — with which Pont Cardinet hopes to compete — were up 3 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous quarter, to 771 euros per square meter (about $93 per square foot).
世邦魏理仕的一份报告称，在包括巴黎市在内的巴黎大区(Île de France)范围内，新建或翻修写字楼的平均租金同比下降1.3%，平均租金截至1月1日已下调至每平米295欧元（约合人民币2328.5元）。而在巴黎的中心区，卡迪内桥项目希望与之匹敌的那些人气最旺的建筑物，其租金在（去年）四季度比前一季度上涨了3%，升至每平方米771欧元（约合人民币5795.22元）。
In comparison, asking rents for Class A office space in Manhattan are about $70 per square foot, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
相比之下，据高纬环球(Cushman & Wakefield)公司的统计，曼哈顿A级写字楼的租金要价为70美元/平方英尺（约合每平方米人民币4615元）。
“One thing we like about the Cardinet project,” Mr. Spies said, “is that these are low-rise buildings that can be delivered in a very short time and really suit the marketplace. Risk grows the further out you look.”
“关于卡迪内桥项目，我们最喜欢的一点就是，”斯拜斯说，“它们都是低楼层的建筑物，可以很快放租，而且十分适应市场需求。你观望得越久，风险就越高。”
Emerige, a developer of two residential buildings on the site, has taken steps to minimize risk, said Laurent Dumas, the chief executive. One building will have 48 units of subsidized housing, and will be sold to a company that will manage it and rent it out. The other, a market-rate building, will have 79 apartments for sale. The project was designed jointly by the firm of the French architect Christian Biecher, and MAD, a Chinese firm.
此地两栋住宅楼的开发商Emerige已经采取措施让风险最小化，该公司首席执行官劳伦特·仲马(Laurent Dumas)说道。其中一栋楼将提供48套保障房，会被出售给一家公司，专事管理和出租。而另一栋依市场定价的大楼将有79套公寓出售。该项目是法国设计师克里斯提安·毕谢(Christian Biecher)与一家中国公司MAD联合设计的。
The choice of MAD was an effort to tap the lucrative Chinese market, Mr. Dumas said. He added that he had fielded many calls from potential Chinese buyers, even though construction had not yet started.
选择MAD就是为了打入有利可图的中国市场，仲马说道。他还说，虽然大楼目前尚未开始施工，他已经接到了很多潜在的中国买家的电话。
The units are expected to sell for an average of 12,000 euros per square meter, or about $1,450 per square foot. By comparison, the average price per square foot for new condominiums in Manhattan is $1,332 per square foot, according to the real estate company Douglas Elliman.
这些公寓有望以每平方米12000欧元（约合人民币94735元），或每平方英尺1450美元的价格出售。相比而言，根据Douglas Elliman地产公司的报告，曼哈顿一套新建分户式产权公寓每平方英尺的平均价格为1332美元。
Clichy Batignolles’s town square is the 25-acre Martin Luther King Park, the first section of which opened in 2007. The park includes age-segregated playgrounds, a skateboard park, community gardens — and that Parisian rarity, an absence of “Pelouse interdite,” or “Keep off the grass” signs.
克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒的中心广场，是占地25英亩(约10万平方米)的马丁·路德·金公园(Martin Luther King Park)，其中的一期部分已经于2007年开放。该公园中有数个按年龄层区分的运动场，还有一个滑板公园和社区花园——以及在巴黎不多见的，“禁止踩踏草坪”的标识。
A second section scheduled to open early next year will have a more naturalistic bent, with a lily pond stocked with carp and ringed by cattails and reeds, an exercise course through a forest, and a tree-lined promenade.
其二期部分计划于明年初开放，届时将会有更多的自然景观，包括一个鲤鱼成群、周围种着香蒲和芦苇的莲花池，还有一条林间晨练小径，以及一个绿树成荫的散步场所。
If the park is Clichy Batignolles’s town square, the new courthouse will be its city hall. The building, scheduled to open in 2017, consists of three receding blocks set atop a grand podium. It will house the Tribunal de Grande Instance, or lower court, as well as district courts now attached to each arrondissement.
如果该公园是克利希·巴蒂尼奥勒的中心广场，那么新的法院大楼就是这里的市镇厅。这栋大楼由三栋建筑物组成，靠后立于一个大斜坡的顶部，计划于2017年开放。这里将进驻大审法院(Tribunal de Grande Instance)或低级法院，还有现在附属于每个行政区政府的区级法院。
The French builder Bouygues Construction, a subsidiary of the Bouygues Group, will be the developer of the 575 million-euro project, in a so-called public-private partnership. In conceiving the building, Mr. Piano said he thought of it as a “machine of justice” serving all parts of society. Nearly full-floor windows and an active system of blinds will give the courthouse a crystalline and luminous aspect, he said, in contrast to a typical monolithic hall of justice.
法国建筑商，Bouygues集团下属的Bouygues建筑公司(Bouygues Construction)将通过所谓“公私合作”(public-private partnership)的形式，成为这个5.75亿欧元（约合人民币45.4亿元）项目的开发商。皮亚诺说，在构思、设计这栋大楼的过程中，他把这栋大楼看作一台“司法机器”，为社会的各个部分服务。所以他设计了几乎有整层楼面那么高的窗户，以及动态的百叶窗体系，这将使法院大楼具有水晶般通透、明亮的立面，因而区别于传统的浑然一体式的司法大楼。他说。
“The idea,” he said, “is to create trust, not by intimidation but by a sense of light and openness.”
“我的想法就是，”他说，“通过一种光明和开放的感受而非威慑力，来创造出信任感。”