Our objective in making this film was something of a psychology experiment: We sought to capture people facing a difficult situation, to make a portrait of humans in doubt. We’ve all seen actors playing doubt in fiction films, but we have few true images of the feeling in documentaries. To make them, we decided to put people in a situation powerful enough not to need any classic narrative framework. A high dive seemed like the perfect scenario.
我们制作这部影片的目的是进行某种心理学实验：我们想要拍下那些面对困境的人，以便绘制心怀困惑者的肖像。我们都看过演员在虚构的影片中表演困惑，但很少在纪录片中看到关于这种情感的真实影像。为了拍摄这样的影像，我们决定让人置身于一种足够强烈，从而无需任何经典叙事框架的情境之中。高台跳水似乎是一个完美的情境。
Through an online advertisement, we found 67 people who had never been on a 10-meter (about 33 feet) diving tower before, and had never jumped from that high. We paid each of them the equivalent of about $30 to participate — which meant climbing up to the diving board and walking to its edge. We were as interested in the people who decided to climb back down as the ones jumping.
通过在网上发布广告，我们找到了67名此前从未站上过10米（约合33英尺）跳台，也从未从那样的高度往下跳过的人。我们向每个人支付了相当于约30美元的报酬，让他们参与其中——参与的意思是爬上跳台，并走到跳台边缘。我们对那些打了退堂鼓决定爬下来的人和那些跳了下去的人同样感兴趣。
We filmed it all with six cameras and several microphones. It was important for us not to conceal the fact that this was an arranged situation, and thus we chose to show the microphones within the frame. Ultimately, about 70 percent of those who climbed did jump. We noticed that the presence of the camera as well as the social pressure (from those awaiting their turn beside the pool) pushed some of the participants to jump, which made their behavior even more interesting.
我们用六部摄影机和若干麦克风拍下了全过程。该情境是预先安排好的，不隐瞒这一事实对我们来说颇为重要，因此我们选择让麦克风出现在镜头中。爬上去的人有70%最终跳了下去。我们注意到，摄影机的存在以及社会压力（来自那些待在泳池边等着上场的人）促使一些参与者跳了下去，这让他们的行为变得更加有趣。
In our films, which we often call studies, we want to portray human behavior, rather than tell our own stories about it. We hope the result is a series of meaningful references, in the form of moving images. “Ten Meter Tower” may take place in Sweden, but we think it elucidates something essentially human, that transcends culture and origins. Overcoming our most cautious impulses with bravery unites all humankind. It’s something that has shaped us through the ages.
在我们通常称之为研究的影片中，我们想要客观地呈现人的行为，而不是奉上我们自己的描绘。我们希望最终能以动态影像的形式，给出一系列有意义的参照。《十米跳台》(Ten Meter Tower)是在瑞典拍摄的，但我们认为它阐明了人性中某种基本的东西，超越了文化和出身。以勇气克服谨小慎微的本能，会让所有人团结在一起。这是从古至今一直在塑造我们的东西。
‘Ten Meter Tower’ appeared at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival. It is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute.
《十米跳台》出现在了2017年的圣丹斯电影节(Sundance Film Festival)上。它是一些从非营利机构圣丹斯协会(Sundance Institute)获得支持的独立电影人制作的系列影片的组成部分。