BAGAN, Myanmar — In a delicate operation here, specialists gingerly eased a priceless, 1,000-year-old national treasure — a Buddhist bronze casting in the shape of a lotus flower — from its perch in a museum showcase.
缅甸蒲甘——在一次精心组织的行动中，专家们小心翼翼地从博物馆展示柜里取出一件有千年历史、价值连城的缅甸国宝，一座莲花状的佛教青铜铸器。
A small group of curators on a recent visit from the United States, flashlights in hand, admired the tiny metal hinges that allow the flower to open and close as well as the intricate detail on the miniature Buddhas craftsmen attached to the petals long ago. The piece was found in pristine condition inside a stone box flung to the surface by an earthquake here nearly 40 years ago.
一小群最近来到此地的美国策展人手里拿着着手电筒，欣赏着这件艺术品。铸器上让莲花可以开合的微小金属合页，以及古代工匠们用花瓣上的微小佛像呈现出的精巧细节，都让他们赞叹不已。这件藏品是在40年前的一场地震中被甩到地面上的一个石匣里发现的，被发现时状态完好。
The curators pronounced it a star attraction among hundreds of rarely seen ancient objects in the neglected museums and dusty storerooms they have been scouring across Myanmar as they prepare for a 2015 exhibit at the Asia Society in New York City that will celebrate the nation’s long-hidden Buddhist art.
在看管不善的博物馆和尘土飞扬的储藏室里，这些策展人已经见识了成百上千的罕见古代文物，但他们表示，这座莲花是其中的耀眼明星。他们一直在缅甸各地探寻，为2015年将在纽约市的亚洲协会(Asia Society)举行的一次展览做准备，该展览将突出多年来不为人知的缅甸佛教艺术。
As Myanmar wrestles with the problems and uncertainty of a nascent democracy, and Buddhist extremists tarnish the image of the country’s dominant religion with attacks on Muslims, early Buddhist art offers a different dimension of a country that until recently languished under a military dictatorship, and before World War II served as a tropical outpost of the British Empire.
缅甸正在面对一个新生民主国家会有的问题和不确定性，佛教极端分子对穆斯林的袭击，也玷污了这种在该国占主导地位的宗教的形象，此时此刻，早期的佛教艺术能够展示该国一个不同的维度。这个国家直到不久前还处于军事独裁统治下，在二战前则充当过大英帝国在热带的前哨。
The curators rummaged through the humid basement of the Bagan museum, where they found outsize chamber pots used in the princely palaces that once flourished on the banks of the Irrawaddy River. They examined gilded wood monastery boxes that stored palm-leaf manuscripts, the paint now peeling. They peered into grimy glass cabinets at gold-painted sphinxlike creatures in a rundown library in the town of Prome, near where the first Buddhists in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, lived.
策展人翻遍了潮湿的蒲甘博物馆地下室，他们发现了一种体型巨大的夜壶，是那些曾经遍布在伊洛瓦底江畔的豪华宫殿里使用过。他们检查了在寺院里存放贝叶经的金漆木盒，盒上的漆已经斑驳。在卑谬城的破旧图书馆里，他们看到涂着金漆、形如狮身人面怪的生物造像被放在脏兮兮的玻璃柜里。卑谬与缅甸最早的佛教徒居住的地方相距不远。
“The show will be a coming out for Burma,” said Melissa Chiu, museum director of the Asia Society. “The country has been closed off for so many years, we hope the show will assume a bigger significance, and shed new light on material not seen before. Buddhism is the state religion and plays such a major role in daily life.”
“这次展览将让缅甸走向世界，”亚洲协会博物馆馆长招颖思(Melissa Chiu)说。“这个国家已经封闭了这么多年，我们希望这次展览能发挥更重大的作用，揭示多年未见的藏品。作为国教，佛教在日常生活中扮演着如此重要的角色。”
The curators searched in the former capital, Yangon; in the new capital, Naypyidaw; in Prome; and here in Bagan, which from the ninth century to the 13th century was the center of a royal kingdom where the creative energy was so intense that nearly 2,000 brick and gilded temples were built across a vast plain. In Bagan, a popular destination for tourists imagining the glory days among faded temples, farmers still unearth ancient gold jewelry.
策展人搜罗过的地方包括故都仰光、新都内比都、卑谬，还有蒲甘，这里从9世纪到13世纪曾是一个王国的中心，这个国家有着强大的创造力，在一片广阔的平原上建成了近2000座砖制和镀金的寺庙。蒲甘是一个很受欢迎的旅游目的地，游客们喜欢站在褪色的寺庙中，遥想昔日的辉煌，而农民至今还会挖掘出一些古代的金首饰。
The antiquities hunt has the support of President Thein Sein. During a visit to the United States last year, he approved the loan of dozens of artworks for the 2015 show, ensuring that the curators were welcomed in usually off-limits inner sanctums. Of the estimated 70 objects planned for the exhibit, about three-quarters will come from Myanmar and the remainder from collections in the United States, Ms. Chiu said.
搜罗文物的行动得到了缅甸总统登盛(Thein Sein)的支持。在去年访美期间，他批准出借几十件艺术品以备2015年的展览，并保证策展人可以进入通常不准入内的密室中。招颖思说，这次展览计划将展出约70件藏品，其中四分之三将来自缅甸，其余则是美国藏家的收藏。
In exchange for the right to borrow the art, the Asia Society has pledged to provide training in conservation techniques to Myanmar’s museum employees, who must make do with a scant $100,000 budget that leaves the nation’s museums with little electricity, poor air-conditioning and no money for acquisitions.
为了得到借用艺术品的权利，亚洲协会承诺为缅甸的博物馆职员提供文物保护技术的培训。这些职员必须靠区区10万美元（约合61万元人民币）的预算勉强维持，博物馆经常缺少电力、空调不足，并且没有钱购买藏品。
Although the visitors had extraordinary access and freedom to choose the objects they wanted, some items were too precious to ship to New York, including an elaborately carved gilt door from the royal court in Mandalay that was salvaged before the British Army looted the palace in 1885.
尽管这些访客可以进出许多不一般的地方，并能自由选择他们看中的藏品，但有些藏品由于过于贵重不能运往纽约，其中包括曼德勒王宫里一扇精心雕琢的镀金门，它是在英国军队1885年洗劫宫殿之前被挽救下来。
The door was low, making it impossible for subjects who visited the king to enter without bending in obeisance. The curators coveted it, but it was one of the few pieces that the directors of the National Museum in Yangon vetoed. “Impossible,” said Daw Nu Mra Zan, a former deputy director of the museum.
门很矮，因此觐见国王的臣民要想进来，就必须谦恭地弯腰。策展人对它垂涎欲滴，但它是遭到仰光国家博物馆(National Museum)的主管们否决的少数几样展品中的一件。博物馆前副馆长努玛赞(Nu Mra Zan)说，“不可能。”
But that still left many images of Buddha — in stone, bronze and wood — to choose from. Some looked similar to other famous images. A few were judged to be fakes. But with so many remarkable pieces, it will be difficult to make the final selections, the curators said.
不过可供选择的佛像还是有很多，有石头的、铜质还有木质的。一些看起来与其他著名的佛像很相似，也有少数几件被判定为赝品。然而策展人也说，有如此之多令人赞叹的展品，要做出最终的选择很难。
A wood carving more than two feet high from the 12th century that shows Buddha descending from heaven after giving a sermon to his mother will surely be on the A-list. “This is very special,” said Sylvia Fraser-Lu, a guest curator for the show, as she admired the movement carved into the piece. “It’s luck that it was preserved. It may have been inside a temple, or on the shady side of a temple.”
肯定在最优先的名单上的，有一件12世纪的木刻。它的高度超过两英尺，展示了佛陀向他的母亲讲法之后下界的情景。这场展览的客座策展人西尔维娅·弗雷泽-路(Sylvia Fraser-Lu)对这幅作品中刻画的动感十分赞赏，她说，“它很特别，能保存下来真是幸运。它可能是放在寺庙里面的，或者在寺庙背阴的一侧。”
For a spectacular object that would impress hard-to-please New York audiences, the curators liked an 11th-century stone sculpture of a jaunty-looking Prince Siddhartha shearing his hair with a sword as he vowed to begin the journey that would lead him to become the Buddha. “It could be the signature piece of the show,” said Ms. Chiu, thinking ahead to marketing possibilities.
为了用一件杰作来让挑剔的纽约观众眼前一亮，策展人选择了一尊11世纪的石像。这尊塑像展现了神情喜悦的悉达多王子(Prince Siddhartha)在上路前用剑削发明誓的情景，他是在经历那段旅行后成佛的。招颖思正在预先考虑展览推广的方案，她说：“这可能会是展览中的招牌展品。”
Over the years, waves of looters depleted much of the great storehouse of treasures. In the 1885 Anglo-Burmese war, British soldiers plundered smaller items like mirrors, manuscripts and jewelry, said Ms. Fraser-Lu, who lived in Burma in the 1970s. In the 1920s, German souvenir hunters carted away chunks of walls from several monasteries, she said.
多年来，一波又一波的掠夺者已经夺去了数量巨大的珍宝。弗雷泽-路说，在1885年的英缅战争中，英国士兵掳掠了体积较小的物品，如镜子、手稿和珠宝。她曾在20世纪70年代居住在缅甸。她说，20年代，德国收藏品搜集者用推车从数座寺院拉走了大块的墙壁。
Monks told her that during the military dictatorship from 1962 to 2011 they wielded baseball bats to protect the treasures in their monasteries from smugglers in league with the authorities.
僧人们对她说，在1962年至2011年的军政府独裁统治期间，他们挥舞着棒球棒保护寺院里的珍宝，驱赶与官方勾结的走私者。
Still, many of the stone Buddha images that were too heavy for even the most ardent looters to move remained in the country, so the New York exhibit will be a chance to show the pieces for the first time outside Myanmar. “There is not a single major Bagan-era stone sculpture outside of Burma,” said Donald Stadtner, also a guest curator and the author of books on Burma’s Buddhist heritage.
然而，许多石头佛像由于太重，连最贪婪的掠夺者也搬不动，因而留在了缅甸国内。因此，纽约的这次展览将会是这些展品首次在缅甸以外展出。同为客座策展人的唐纳德·斯塔特纳(Donald Stadtner)著有多本关于缅甸佛教传统的著作。他说，“蒲甘时代的石像中，没有任何一尊重要的塑像流出了缅甸。”
At the curators’ last stop, the tin-roofed annex of the museum in Prome, a 1,500-year-old bronze Buddha, encrusted with a rough patina from centuries buried in the ground, stood on a green plastic tablecloth under a bare neon strip light. A rice farmer stumbled across it in 2005 while plowing his fields, said U Thein Lwin, the deputy director general of the National Department of Archaeology. “He hit something hard,” Mr. Thein Lwin said. “We are lucky it wasn’t broken.”
策展人的最后一站是卑谬博物馆里的一座铁皮屋顶的附属建筑。这里陈列着一尊有1500年历史的青铜佛像，铜像脚下是绿色的塑料桌布，照明仅靠头顶的一盏条形霓虹灯。由于数个世纪以来都埋在地下，这尊佛像已经蒙上了一层粗糙的铜绿。2005年，一名稻农在犁地时意外划到了铜像上，国家考古部(National Department of Archaeology)副主任登伦(Thein Lwin)表示，“他重重地打到了什么东西上，很幸运没给打坏。”
Shipping the tough bronze Buddha to New York should not be risky, but the fragile lotus flower at Bagan is another matter, and may need special permission from the government to exit the country, Ms. Chiu said.
招颖思说，运送坚固的佛像去纽约应该不会有风险，但在蒲甘找到的那座脆弱的莲花可并非如此，而且可能需要政府的特批才能离开缅甸。
Daw Baby, the deputy director of the museum here, said the prized lotus flower should travel to New York.
博物馆副馆长巴碧(Baby)说，这座格外珍贵的莲花应当送往纽约展览。
“All of the collection is in my heart,” she said. “Every day I check the 1,000 pieces in our museum. A temporary loan to New York is not a problem for me. But not permanently.”
“我心中记得所有的藏品，”她说。“我每一天都会检查博物馆里的1000个展品。暂借给纽约对我来说不是问题，但不能是永久的。”