SAN FRANCISCO — The basics of the Apple Watch have been known since September, but now, a few weeks before the watch’s arrival in stores, Apple has finally revealed how much it will cost.
旧金山——从去年9月开始，外界就已经知道Apple Watch的基本情况了，但现在，在离这款手表上架只剩几星期时，苹果(Apple)终于公布了它的价格。
The company on Monday held a media event here to remind people about the features of the Apple Watch and share more details about the product, including its cost. It also demonstrated what the watch was capable of doing with apps made by other companies.
周一，苹果公司在这里举行了媒体发布会，向人们介绍Apple Watch的功能，并分享了这款产品的更多细节，包括其价格。公司还展示了这款手表能通过其他公司开发的应用，实现怎样的功能。
“Apple Watch is the most personal device we have ever created,” said Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive. “It’s not just with you. It’s on you.”
“Apple Watch是我们所开发的最私人的设备，”苹果公司首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)说。“你不只是带着它，而且是戴着它。”
The Apple Watch is a miniature computer worn around a person’s wrist, with a touch screen and a so-called digital crown for navigating the device. You can receive and respond to calls on the watch, but it requires an iPhone to fully operate.
Apple Watch是一台戴在人手腕上的微型电脑，配有触摸屏和用于操作的所谓“数字表冠”。用户可以在这款手表上接听和回拨来电，但需要有一部iPhone才能正常运行。
“I have been wanting to do this since I was 5 years old,” Mr. Cook said.
“从五岁开始，我就一直想这么做，”库克说。
Unlike past Apple products, the Apple Watch has a complex pricing structure. Because a smart watch is both gadget and fashion accessory, Apple designed its device to be highly customizable to suit the tastes of various consumers, from fitness buffs to collectors of luxury watches.
不同于过去的苹果产品，Apple Watch有着一个复杂的定价结构。因为智能手表既是一种小型电子设备，又是一款时尚配饰。经过苹果的设计，这款手表十分便于定制，从而适应各类消费者的品味，从健身爱好者到奢侈手表藏家。
Apple will offer three models of Apple Watch, each with a casing made of a different material: Watch Sport, a version with an aluminum case; Watch, which has a stainless steel case; and Watch Edition, which has a case made of 18-karat gold.
苹果将提供三款Apple Watch，各款表壳材质不同：Watch Sport是铝制表壳；Watch是不锈钢表壳；Watch Edition的表壳则由18K金制成。
Each model comes in two case sizes — 1.5 inches and 1.65 inches. And for each watch, customers will be able to choose from a variety of interchangeable bands in different colors and materials.
每款的表盘都有两个尺寸——1.5英寸和1.65英寸（38毫米和42毫米）。消费者还可以为每一款手表选择颜色和材质各异的表带，这些表带可以换着用。
The cheapest model is the Apple Watch Sport, the one tailored to athletes, which starts at $349. The larger Apple Watch Sport costs $399.
最便宜型号的是为运动爱好者定制的Apple Watch Sport，起售价349美元（约合2200元人民币），表盘较大的Apple Watch Sport售价399美元。
The next step up is the Apple Watch, with a more fashionable stainless steel case. The smaller version of this watch costs $549 to $1,040, and the larger one costs $599 to $1,099. The price range for both depends on the band.
接下来是拥有更时尚的不锈钢表壳的Apple Watch。表盘较小的Apple Watch售价在549美元至1040美元之间，表盘较大的售价在599美元至1099美元之间。两款的价格区间视表带而定。
The Apple Watch Edition, which has a case made of 18-karat gold, is a sure sign that Apple has entered the luxury market. Pricing for the high-end version starts at $10,000.
表壳由18K金制成的Apple Watch Edition明确地显示出，苹果已进入了奢侈品市场。这款高端产品的起售价是1万美元。
Preorders for the various versions of the watch start April 10, and it will go on sale on April 24. It will first be available in a number of countries, including the United States, Australia, China and Japan.
苹果从4月10日开始接受各款手表的预订，产品将在4月24日发售，首发国家包括美国、澳大利亚、中国和日本等国。
At the event, Apple also stressed some of the signature features of the device.
在媒体发布会上，苹果还强调了这款设备的部分标志性的功能和特性。
Apple has highlighted the crown as its latest signature innovation for controlling a device, similar to the mouse pointer for the personal computer, the click wheel on the iPod and the touch screen for the iPhone. On the Apple Watch, the crown can be twisted to zoom in or out of the screen or to scroll through a web page.
苹果还着重介绍了其在设备控制上最新的标志性创新设计表冠，它类似于个人电脑上的鼠标指针、iPod上的点击轮，或者iPhone的触屏。在Apple Watch上，可以旋转表冠来放大和缩小屏幕上的图标，或者上下滑动浏览网页。
The watch includes a heart rate sensor and a sensor for tracking movement to complement fitness applications. It has a chip that helps it make wireless payments.
这款手表内置了一个心率感应器和一个追踪运动的感应器，以支持健身应用。它内置的一个芯片还可以实现无线支付。
The watch also includes Digital Touch, an application that enables a new method of communication between watch users. Watch wearers can scribble sketches on the watch screen and send them to one another, or even send their heartbeats.
这款手表还带有一款名为“数字触碰”(Digital Touch)的应用，它可以让手表用户以一种新的方法交流。用户可以在手表屏幕上简略地写下一些内容发给其他用户，甚至可以发送自己的心跳声。
Apple also added to the watch a so-called taptic engine, which “taps” users on the wrist with a tactile sensation when they receive alerts, messages or notifications.
苹果还为这款手表增加了所谓的“轻拍引擎”(taptic engine)，它在收到提醒、消息或通知时会“轻拍”用户的手腕，产生触碰的感觉。
Apple said the watch’s battery would last 18 hours. To help users prolong battery life, Apple designed a mode called Power Reserve, which runs the watch in low energy while only displaying the time. Power Reserve can be toggled on and off.
苹果称，这款手表可续航18个小时。为了帮助用户延长电池寿命，苹果设计了一个叫做“蓄能”(Power Reserve)的模式，以较低的电量维持手表的运行，屏幕上只显示时间。用户可以选择是否开启这个功能。
Apple demonstrated third-party apps working on the watch. An app developed by Starwood hotels sends a notification to watch wearers when they are near their hotels; the app can also unlock the user’s room door. The watch also supports the Uber app for summoning a car. The app shows where the driver is on a map, and from there, the user can place a phone call to the driver.
苹果还展示了一些第三方应用在手表上的运行情况。喜达屋酒店(Starwood)开发的一款应用，可以在用户临近旗下酒店时，向用户发送通知，该应用还可以打开用户的房间门。这款手表还支持叫车应用Uber，该应用可以在地图上显示司机的位置，用户还可以用手表给司机打电话。
Apple also announced a new MacBook laptop with a 12-inch high-resolution “retina” display. Philip Schiller, the company’s head of marketing, said the new MacBook was the thinnest and lightest laptop the company had ever made. It weighs two pounds and measures 13.1 millimeters at its thickest point.
苹果还发布了一款配有12英寸高分辨率视网膜(retina)屏的新MacBook笔记本电脑。苹果的市场营销总监菲利普·席勒(Philip Schiller)说，这款新MacBook是公司迄今为止推出的最轻薄的笔记本电脑。它的重量为两磅，最厚的地方只有13.1毫米。
The MacBook also includes a trackpad with sensors that can detect how hard a user is clicking. A hard click on the fast-forward button on a video, for example, will make the video run faster.
这款MacBook上的触摸板带有传感器，可以检测用户的点按力度。例如，如果用户使劲按住视频的快进键，快进的速度就会加快。
The new MacBook features a new battery design to provide all-day battery life, Mr. Schiller said.
席勒说，新的MacBook拥有新的电池设计，可以续航整整一天。