NEW YORK — When Summer Rayne Oakes’ roommate moved out of their apartment in Brooklyn, she was left with more than just a vacant bedroom.
纽约——萨莫尔·瑞妮·奥克斯(Summer Rayne Oakes)的室友从她们在布鲁克林的公寓搬走后，留给她的不只是一间空卧室。
“All of a sudden the apartment felt so cold and empty,” said Oakes, 33. “I needed to find a way to make the space feel warm and full of life again.”
“突然间，公寓变得那么冰冷、空空荡荡，”现年33岁的奥克斯说。“我需要找到一个方法，让这个空间再次充满温暖和生机。”
Her solution? A fiddle leaf fig tree; the first of nearly 700 houseplants — spanning 400 species — that Oakes, founder of Homestead Brooklyn, would eventually buy for her 1,200-square-foot apartment.
她的解决方案？琴叶榕；这是布鲁克林农庄(Homestead Brooklyn)创始人奥克斯买来的第一种植物，最终，她为自己约1200平方英尺（111平方米）的公寓买了跨越400个物种的近700棵室内植物。
Her indoor forest features everything from a subirrigated living wall in her bedroom, which is a wall of greenery that is essentially a self-watering planter with a built-in reservoir; a vertical garden made out of Mason jars mounted to the living-room wall with wooden boards and hose clamps; and a closet-turned-kitchen grow garden with edible plants (ranging from herbs and greens to pineapple plants and curry leaves).
她的室内森林丰富多彩。其中，有她卧室里靠渗液浇灌的活墙，这是一个绿叶植物墙，它其实是一个带有内置蓄水池的自浇灌花盆；用木板和固定软管的夹子布置在客厅墙上的梅森玻璃罐形成的垂直花园；还有一个由贮藏室改为厨房里的种植园，里面种了可食用植物（从药草和绿叶蔬菜，到菠萝和咖喱叶）。
“I didn’t set out to build a jungle,” Oakes said. “I just saw how much energy and life the plants brought to the space and kept going.”
“我并没打算建设一个丛林，”奥克斯说。“我只是了看到这些植物给室内空间带来的极大能量和生命，就愈发不可收拾了。”
It’s a sentiment that more and more young people seem to be echoing in their own apartments. Wellness-minded millennials, especially ones in large urban environments that lack natural greenery, are opting to fill their voids — both decorative and emotional — with houseplants.
这种观点似乎在越来越多的年轻人的公寓里回荡着。关心健康的千禧一代，尤其是住在缺少天然绿色植物的大城市环境中的那些人，正在选择用室内植物来填补他们装饰上和情感上的空缺。
“Millennials were responsible for 31 percent of houseplant sales in 2016,” according to Ian Baldwin, a business adviser for the gardening industry. The 2016 National Gardening survey found that of the 6 million Americans who took up gardening that year, 5 million were ages 18 to 34. “This group has more college debt and, as a result, are renting homes instead of buying,” Baldwin said. “Houseplants are a low-cost way to have a green space at home.”
“千禧一代在2016年的室内种植销售中占了31%，”园艺行业的商业顾问伊恩·鲍德温(Ian Baldwin)说。2016年全美园艺调查发现，那年开始种花园的600万美国人中，有500万人的年龄在18岁至34岁之间。“这个群体在念大学期间借了更多的债务，因此，他们在租房而不是买房，”鲍德温说。“室内植物是在家里拥有绿色空间的低成本方式。”
Meanwhile, Greenery NYC, a botanic design company, has increased its clientele by 6,500 percent since it was founded in 2010; developers are finding ways to include gardens as an amenity for residents; and more people — like Oakes — are turning what little spare space they have in their apartments into indoor gardens.
与此同时，植物园设计公司“纽约市青枝绿叶”(Greenery NYC)自2010年成立以来，客户人数增加了65倍；开发商们在寻找把花园作为居民便利设施包括进来的方法；越来越多像奥克斯这样的人正在把他们公寓里的闲置空间变成室内花园。
“Our sales have doubled each year,” said Rebecca Bullene, the founder of Greenery NYC. “And I attribute that mostly to businesses that want to attract millennial talent and millennials themselves who want more nature in their lives.”
“我们的销售额每年都在翻番，”纽约市青枝绿叶的创始人瑞贝卡·布里恩(Rebecca Bullene)说。“我觉得这主要是因为那些想吸引千禧一代人才的企业，以及那些希望在自己的生活中有更多大自然的千禧一代本身。”
Inside her 1,800-square-foot apartment in Brooklyn, Bullene, 37, cares for more than 100 plants. She has installed a green divider wall — a 6-foot-by-6-foot steel shelving unit filled with a dozen wooden planter boxes and more than 50 plants — that separates her living room from her in-home office, as well as a terrarium and several other large-scale plants, including an 11-foot-tall Ficus Audrey tree, to help break up the open layout of the space.
现年37岁的布里恩在自己位于布鲁克林的1800平方英尺（约167平方米）的公寓里，照管着100多棵植物。她在客厅和设在家里的办公室之间安装了一个绿色分隔墙，这是一个约2米长、2米宽的钢制货架，架子上放了12个木制花盆，里面种了50多棵植物，她还有一个生物养育箱和一些其他的大型植物，包括一棵3米多高的热带榕属植物奥黛丽树，这些植物帮助把开放空间分隔成几个部分。
But for Bullene, the plants do more than help define the apartment; they make her home healthier, too.“Plants boost serotonin levels and dissolve volatile airborne chemicals,” she said. “They actually make healthier spaces for humans to inhabit.” She cited a 2010 study from Washington State University that breaks down the benefits of indoor plants, including cleaner air and lowered stress levels.
但对布里恩来说，这些植物的作用不仅是帮助衬托公寓；它们也让她的家变得更健康。“植物能提高人体内血清素的水平，还能溶解空气中的挥发性化学物质，”她说。“它们实际上为人类创造了更健康的居住空间。”她提到华盛顿州立大学(Washington State University)2010年的一项研究，该研究列出了室内植物的好处，包括清洁空气和减少精神压力。
Along with her floor-to-ceiling plant divider wall in the living room, she also employed a combination of plants that release oxygen at night in her bedroom — including aloe vera and sansevieria — so that she and her husband can breathe cleaner air while they sleep.
除了客厅里从地板到天花板的隔离墙外，布里恩还在自己的卧室里摆放了一组夜里释放氧气的植物，包括芦荟和虎尾兰，这样她和她的丈夫在就睡觉时可以呼吸更清新的空气。
Millennial-minded companies are also going to great lengths to integrate greenery into their offices.
对千禧一代有兴趣的公司也在不遗余力地让绿色植物成为他们办公室的一部分。
The Etsy headquarters in Brooklyn, for example, could easily be mistaken for an indoor botanical garden. Spanning nine floors and more than 200,000 square feet, the office is home to more than 11,000 plants, including dozens of large-scale plant displays and living walls installed and maintained by Bullene and Greenery NYC.
比如，位于布鲁克林的Etsy总部很容易被误认为是一个室内植物园。在这个占了9层楼、总面积20万平方尺（约1.8万平方米）的总部里，有11000多个植物，其中包括数十棵大型植物陈列，以及由布里恩和纽约市青枝绿叶安装和维护的活墙。
“Every employee has a sight line to greenery,” said Hilary Young, Etsy’s sustainability manager, who helps the company seek ways to conserve the environment. “It’s a beautiful space that inspires and boosts productivity.” Greenery NYC and the architects at Gensler worked closely to create a state-of-the-art rainwater-harvesting and irrigation system at Etsy’s headquarters, which is considered the largest commercial “living building” in the world. It allows all the office plants to be watered with recycled stormwater.
“每个员工都能看到绿色植物，”Etsy的可持续发展经理希拉里·扬(Hilary Young)说，她帮助公司寻求保护环境的方法。“这是一个美丽的空间，能够激发和提高生产力。”纽约市青枝绿叶与晋思(Gensler)的建筑师们密切合作，为Etsy的总部创造了一套最先进的雨水收集和灌溉系统，被认为是世界上最大的商业“活建筑”。这个系统让所有办公室植物都可以用回收的雨水浇灌。
With the increasing number of young people searching for access to greenery in their residences, real estate developers have also jumped on the trend.
随着越来越多的年轻人希望在自己的住宅中接触绿色植物，房地产开发商们也纷纷加入到这个潮流中来。
At the ARC in Long Island City — a new 428-unit “industrial-inspired” luxury rental building developed by the Lightstone Group — residents have access to a 1,100-square-foot glass greenhouse, where they are free to plant and grow their own vegetables and herbs. “It’s been a tremendous selling point to prospective tenants,” said Scott Avram, senior vice president for development at Lightstone.
在长岛市由Lightstone集团开发的“受工业时代启发”的428个单元的豪华租赁公寓楼ARC里，居民们拥有一个面积1100平方尺（约100平米）的玻璃温室，他们可以在那里自由地栽培和种植自己的蔬菜和药草。“对潜在的租户来说，这是一个巨大的卖点，”Lightstone公司高级副总裁斯科特·阿夫拉姆(Scott Avram)说。
Greg Garunov, 33, said: “One factor of my decision to rent in the ARC was the beautiful courtyard and greenhouse. There is something to having a green oasis at your fingertips in the steel city of New York.”
33岁的格雷格·伽拉诺夫(Greg Garunov)说：“我决定在ARC租房子的一个因素是其漂亮的庭院和温室。在纽约这座钢铁之城，有一个你随手可触的植物绿洲不简单。”
And over at the Margo, in Brooklyn, residents enjoy a living wall in the lobby as well as a rooftop garden with plots that tenants can adopt for their own gardens.
在布鲁克林的Margo大厦，居民们在大厅里能享受一面活墙，大厦还有一个屋顶花园，一些住户可以用其中的小块地作为他们自己的花园。
“Wellness is a priority for our millennial-aged residents,” said Dave Maundrell, executive vice president for new developments for Brooklyn and Queens at Citi Habitats. “They’re willing to pay more for access to a green space.”
“健康是我们的千禧一代居民最关心的东西，”Citi Habitats负责布鲁克林和皇后区新开发项目的执行副总裁戴夫·莫德雷尔(Dave Maundrell)说。“他们愿意为接触绿色空间花更多的钱。”
But for those young urbanites who don’t have the luxury of a communal garden or greenhouse, houseplants remain an affordable and renter-friendly option.
但是，对于无法享受公共花园或温室等奢侈的年轻城市居民来说，室内植物仍然是一种负担得起的、对租户友好的选择。
For instance, Oakes has managed to make the bulk of her indoor garden self-regulating and, perhaps more impressively, removable.
比如，奥克斯已经把她的大部分室内花园做成能自我调节，也可以拆除，后面这点也许更令人赞叹。
Thanks to several do-it-yourself irrigation systems she hacked throughout her home, including two irrigation units she created using a 150-foot hose that connects to pipes under her kitchen sink, Oakes has to spend only about a half-hour a day tending to her plants.
靠她在房间里自己动手布置的一些灌溉系统，包括她用一条150英尺（约46米）长的水管从厨房水槽的下水管连接制造的两个灌溉设备，她每天只需花大约半个小时来照顾她的植物。
“New York City is tough,” she said. “My plants gave me a sanctuary to come home to.”
“纽约的生活不容易，”她说。“我的植物给了我一个可以栖息的避难所。”