The numbers are in for the opening weekend of Apple’s new iPhones: 10 million sold in just three days. That’s a lot of new iPhones, and a large number of them are going to people upgrading from older cellphones.
苹果(Apple)新款iPhone开售首个周末的销售数量已被统计出来：仅在三天内就售出1000万部。这可真是很多的新iPhone，其中有很多是由准备更换旧手机的顾客购买的。
So where do those millions of used gadgets wind up?
那数百万部旧手机去哪了呢？
A sampling of data from GameStop, EcoATM and Gazelle, companies that resell used electronics, shows that around the time a new iPhone makes its debut, plenty of people sell their old devices or trade them in to save money on their new iPhone.
转售二手电子产品的游戏驿站(GameStop)、EcoATM和Gazelle的数据样本显示，苹果推出新版iPhone时，很多人会将旧设备卖掉，或以旧换新。
Those phones that are not sold often end up being stashed in sock drawers or given as gifts to friends or family members, some research suggests. GameStop, a video game retailer that buys and sells used electronics and games, said it held a trade-in event last weekend. In three days, it accepted more than 15,000 devices. The items that were traded in the most included the more recent iPhones, like the 5, 5S and 5C, the company said.
一些研究显示，那些没有出售的旧手机通常会被塞到抽屉里，或被当做礼物送给朋友和家人。买卖二手电子商品及游戏用品的电子游戏零售商游戏驿站表示，该公司在上周末举行了回购活动。他们在三天内收到了逾15000个电子设备。该公司表示，他们收到的最多的是不久前推出的iPhone，比如iPhone5、5S和5C。
EcoATM, a company that buys used cellphones through a network of kiosks, said that since the release of the iPhone on Friday, it had seen an 80 percent increase in iPhone trade-ins at its 1,100 kiosks in the United States. It declined to say how many devices it accepted over all.
通过售货亭回购旧手机的EcoATM表示，自苹果公司从周五开始出售新版iPhone以来，该公司在美国的1100个售货亭的交易量上涨了80%。但该公司拒绝透露他们总共回购了多少部手机。
Gazelle, a reseller that allows people to mail in their used electronics for cash back or credit on Amazon, said it was making 180 offers a minute in the week leading up to the release of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus on Friday. The iPhone 5 accounted for 38 percent of the devices being traded in ahead of the release. Gazelle also noted that in the week Apple introduced the latest iPhones, the number of trade-ins of Samsung products tripled compared with the week before.
转售商Gazelle则允许人们邮寄二手电子产品，以换取现金或亚马逊账户金额。该公司表示，在iPhone 6和6 Plus于周五上市的那一周，他们每分钟会完成180笔交易。在该公司于新手机面市前收购的旧设备中，iPhone 5占38%。Gazelle还指出，在苹果推出最新版iPhone的那一周，三星(Samsung)产品的收购数量比前一周增加了两倍。
Many older devices are not traded in at all. A study by OnePoll, a research company, found that about 54 percent of American consumers say they own two or more unused cellphones. The study estimates that Americans own about $34 billion worth of used cellphones.
很多顾客都没有出售旧手机。调查公司OnePoll发现，大约54%的美国顾客表示，他们有两部或者更多闲置手机。该调查估算，美国人拥有价值约为340亿美元（约合2086亿美元）的旧手机。