A popular surgical procedure worked no better than fake operations in helping people with one type of common knee problem, suggesting that thousands of people may be undergoing unnecessary surgery, a new study in The New England Journal of Medicine reports.
《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)刊登的一项新研究显示，一种针对常见膝盖问题的、相当流行的外科手术，效果未见得比假手术更好，这表明有数以千计的患者可能接受了不必要的手术。
The unusual study involved people with a torn meniscus, crescent-shaped cartilage that helps cushion and stabilize knees. Arthroscopic surgery on the meniscus is the most common orthopedic procedure in the United States, performed, the study said, about 700,000 times a year at an estimated cost of $4 billion.
这项不寻常的研究对半月板撕裂患者进行了调查。半月板是月牙形的软骨，有助于为膝盖提供缓冲和稳定性。该研究称，在美国，半月板关节镜手术是最常见的骨科手术，每年约进行70万台，据估算费用高达40亿美元（约合人民币242亿元）。
The study, conducted in Finland, involved a small subset of meniscal tears. But experts, including some orthopedic surgeons, said the study added to other recent research suggesting that meniscal surgery should be aimed at a narrower group of patients; that for many, options like physical therapy may be as good.
这项研究是在芬兰进行的，涉及半月板撕裂损伤中的一个小类别。但包括一些骨科医生在内的专家说，这项研究跟最近的其他一些研究表明，半月板手术应该针对更狭窄的患者群进行；对于很多人来说，物理治疗等方案的效果可能跟手术差不多。
The surgery, arthroscopic partial meniscectomy, involves small incisions. They are to accommodate the arthroscope, which allows doctors to see inside, and for tools to trim torn meniscus and to smooth ragged edges of what remains.
这种手术称为关节镜半月板部分切除(arthroscopic partial meniscectomy)，需要在患者身上打开小切口，伸入关节镜，让医生看到里面的情况，并用工具对撕裂的半月板进行剪切，再把剩下部分的粗糙边缘修剪光滑。
The Finnish study does not indicate that surgery never helps; there is consensus that it should be performed in some circumstances, especially for younger patients and for tears from acute sports injuries. But about 80 percent of tears develop from wear and aging, and some researchers believe surgery in those cases should be significantly limited.
在芬兰开展的这项研究并不是说手术没有用；目前的共识是，在某些情况下应该对患者进行这种手术，尤其是年轻患者和急性运动损伤造成的撕裂。但约80%的撕裂是磨损和老化造成的，一些研究人员认为，在这些情况下，应该严格限制这种手术。
“Those who do research have been gradually showing that this popular operation is not of very much value,” said Dr. David Felson, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at Boston University. This study “provides information beautifully about whether the surgery that the orthopedist thinks he or she is doing is accomplishing anything. I think often the answer is no.”
“研究已经逐步表明，这种流行的手术并不是非常有价值。”波士顿大学(Boston University)的医学和流行病学教授戴维·费尔逊(David Felson)博士说。对于骨外科医师做这种手术是否有意义，这项研究“提供了出色的信息，我认为，答案常常是否定的”。
The volunteer patients in the Finnish study all received anesthesia and incisions. But some received actual surgery, others simulated procedures. They did not know which.
志愿参加芬兰这项研究的患者全都接受了麻醉，开了切口。但医生对一些患者动了真正的手术，在另外一些身上只是模拟了一下手术过程。患者不知道自己是否真的做了手术。
A year later, most patients in both groups said their knees felt better, and the vast majority said they would choose the same method again, even if it was fake.
一年后，两组患者中的大多数都说自己的膝盖感觉好多了，而且大多数表示他们会再次选择同样的治疗方法，即便是假手术。
“It’s a well-done study,” said Dr. David Jevsevar, chairman of the committee on evidence-based quality and value of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. “It gives further credence or support to a number of studies that have shown that giving arthroscopy to patients is not always going to make a difference.”
“这项研究开展得很完善。”美国骨科医师学会(American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons)“基于证据的质量和价值委员会”主席戴维·杰斯维博士(David Jevsevar)说。“此前已经有多项研究表明，给病人做关节镜手术并不是总是有意义的，这项研究又提供了进一步的证据和支持。”
Dr. Jevsevar, an orthopedic surgeon in St. George, Utah, said he hoped the study would spur research to better identify patients who should have surgery.
杰斯维博士是犹他州圣乔治的一名骨科医生，他希望这项研究可以激发新的研究，以便更好地界定哪些患者应该接受手术治疗。
“Are there operations that are done that do not need to be done? I’m sure that’s the case, but we don’t know the magnitude,” he said. “We still think there’s benefit in arthroscopic meniscectomy in appropriate patients. What we need to define in the future is what’s the definition of appropriate patient.”
“医生是否做了一些实际上不需要做的手术？这样的情况肯定有，不过我们不知道规模大小。”他说。“我们仍然认为，对于适当的患者来说，做关节镜半月板切除手术是有好处的。我们以后需要界定的就是，哪些人才是适当的患者。”
One factor is whether pain is caused by the torn meniscus or something else, especially osteoarthritis, which often accompanies tears. Another possible consideration is whether mechanical knee function is affected.
判断的一个因素是，半月板撕裂或别的疾病是否引起了疼痛。别的疾病尤指骨关节炎，它往往会伴发半月板撕裂。另一个可以考虑的因素是，膝关节的机械性功能是否受到影响。
“Take 100 people with knee pain; a very high percentage have a meniscal tear,” said Dr. Kenneth Fine, an orthopedic surgeon who also teaches at George Washington University. “People love concreteness: ‘There’s a tear, you know. You have to take care of the tear.’ I tell them, ‘No. 1, I’m not so sure the meniscal tear is causing your pain, and No. 2, even if it is, I’m not sure the surgery’s going to take care of it.”
“在100个膝关节疼痛的患者中，半月板撕裂的比例非常高。”肯尼斯·范恩(Kenneth Fine)博士说，他是骨外科医生，也在乔治华盛顿大学(George Washington University)任教。“患者喜欢听简洁易懂的话：‘你的半月板撕裂了，必须要治疗。’可我告诉他们，‘首先，我不太确定让你觉得疼痛的原因是不是半月板撕裂，第二，就算是，我也不知道这个手术能不能解决问题。”
Dr. Fine added: “Yours truly has a meniscal tear. It just causes pain. I’m not having any mechanical symptoms; my knees are not locking. So I’m not going to let anybody operate.”
范恩博士补充说：“如果半月板真的撕裂了，只是造成了疼痛。没有任何机械性的症状；膝盖也不是动不了，就不要去做手术。”
He likened the recent studies to attempts to educate people that “it’s not really good to take antibiotics for the common cold. There’s a lot of pressure to operate. Financial, obviously. But also, if a primary care doctor keeps sending me patients who are complaining of knee pain and I keep not operating on them, then the primary care doctor is going to stop sending me patients.”
他把最近的这些研究跟教育人们“一患上普通感冒就吃抗生素真的不好”做类比。他说：“有很大的力量在推动医生动手术。财务方面的因素很明显。但同时，如果一个初级医生不断让膝盖疼痛的患者来找我动手术，却被我一再挡回去，那么这个初级保健医生就不会再把病人送到我这里来了。”
The new research builds on a groundbreaking 2002 Texas study, showing that patients receiving arthroscopy for knee osteoarthritis fared no better than those receiving sham surgery. A 2008 Canadian study found that patients undergoing surgery for knee arthritis did no better than those having physical therapy and taking medication. Now many surgeons have stopped operating on patients with only knee arthritis.
这项新研究的基础是2002年在德克萨斯州进行的一个突破性研究，后者表明，对于膝关节炎患者来说，做关节镜手术的效果并不比做假手术好。2008年在加拿大开展的一项研究发现，做了膝关节炎治疗手术的患者，状况不比接受物理治疗和服用药物的患者更好。现在，很多医生已经不再对仅患有膝关节炎的病人做手术了。
Earlier this year, a study at seven American hospitals found that patients with meniscal tears and osteoarthritis did not experience greater improvement with surgery than those receiving physical therapy, although after six months, one-third of the physical therapy group sought surgery. (Their surgical results were not reported.)
今年早些时候，在7所美国医院开展一项研究发现，半月板撕裂和骨关节炎患者在做过手术后，获得的改善不比那些接受物理治疗的患者更大，但半年后，接受物理治疗的患者组中有三分之一会寻求手术治疗（他们的手术治疗效果未做报告）。
An author of that study, Dr. Robert Marx of the Hospital for Special Surgery, said his conclusion was that often physical therapy should be tried before surgery. Still, “properly selected patients do benefit from knee arthroscopy,” he said. “When you have someone who doesn’t have arthritis and they have a painful meniscal tear, you’re going to make that person very happy.”
该研究的一位作者、特种外科医院(Hospital for Special Surgery)的医生罗伯特·马克斯(Robert Marx)说，他认为通常应该先尝试物理治疗，再动手术。尽管如此，“适当的患者也会从膝关节镜手术中受益，”他说。“如果某个患者没有关节炎，但又饱受半月板撕裂之苦，做这个手术对他很有好处。”