The French authorities confirmed on Tuesday that they were investigating the fatal shooting by the police of a Chinese man at his home in Paris during the weekend. A lawyer for the man’s family said the killing was not justified, and the Chinese government called for a thorough investigation.
法国当局于周二证实，他们正在调查周末巴黎警方在一名中国男子家中将其射杀的事件。该男子家人的律师说枪杀是没有正当理由的，中国政府要求对之进行彻底调查。
Members of the Chinese community in Paris have been protesting the killing, and the demonstrations turned violent on Monday night, with the police arresting 35 people, officials said.
政府官员说，巴黎华人社区成员一直在抗议这起枪杀事件，周一晚上，示威游行变为骚乱，警方逮捕了35人。
The death of the man, identified in news reports as Liu Shaoyo, 56, comes at a time of heightened unease in France’s Asian community. Many Asian immigrants live in poorer neighborhoods in eastern Paris and the capital’s eastern suburbs. Last year, the death of a Chinese tailor who had been beaten by a gang of youths in a Paris suburb prompted protests.
新闻报道确认，死者刘少尧现年56岁，他的死亡正值法国亚裔社区处于高度不安状态。许多亚裔移民生活在巴黎东部及巴黎以东郊区较贫穷的社区。去年，一名华裔裁缝在巴黎郊区遭一群青年殴打致死，引发了若干抗议事件。
The police went to Mr. Liu’s home on Sunday, according to French news accounts, in response to a call from a neighbor. An officer shot Mr. Liu, who was holding a pair of scissors, as the door opened.
根据法国新闻报道，警方于周日接邻居报警去了刘家。一名警察在开门时开枪打中了手拿剪刀的刘少尧。
Although the exact circumstances of Mr. Liu’s death remained unclear on Tuesday, and the police declined to comment, local news organizations quoted police sources who said Mr. Liu had moved to assault one of the officers on his doorstep.
周二晚上，刘少尧死亡的具体情形尚不清楚，警方亦拒绝发表评论，但当地的新闻机构援引警方消息，称刘少尧对家门口的一名警官进行了攻击。
Mr. Liu’s relatives disputed that account, and said the shooting was not an act of self-defense, according to their lawyer, Calvin Job.
刘少尧的家人通过律师卡尔文·约伯(Calvin Job)对此表示异议，并表示枪击不是自卫行为。
Mr. Liu, an unemployed father of four, was making dinner for his children, cutting fish with the scissors, Mr. Job said. There were loud bangs on the door, and Mr. Liu went to answer, scissors in hand. But, Mr. Job said, Mr. Liu had not yet reached the door when the police forced it open and shot him as he stood next to his daughter.
约伯说，失业的刘少尧是四个孩子的父亲，当时他正在为孩子准备晚饭，用剪刀收拾鱼。听到有人大声敲门，刘少尧手里拿着剪刀去开门。但是，约伯说，还没等刘少尧开门，警方就破门而入，向他开枪，当时他正站在女儿身边。
“I understand the anger in the community,” Mr. Job said in an interview. Several of his clients of Asian ancestry had complained of police violence recently, he said.
约伯在接受采访时说：“我理解社区的愤怒。”他说，他的几个亚裔客户最近都在控诉警察暴力。
The national police disciplinary body was set to hear from Mr. Liu’s relatives on Tuesday afternoon. His relatives’ lawyer said they would also file a complaint.
国家警察纪律机构定于周二下午向刘少尧家人取证。他们的律师说，他们还会提出投诉。
Some of the roughly 150 protesters who gathered at a police station in the 19th arrondissement in northeast Paris, where Mr. Liu was killed, threw objects at officers and set cars on fire. Three officers were said to have been lightly wounded, according to Agence France-Presse.
刘少尧是在巴黎东北部十九区殒命的，约150名抗议者聚集在当地一个警察局，向警官投掷物品，并点燃了几辆汽车。据法新社报道，三名警官据称受了轻伤。
The deadly beating last year of Chang Chaolin, a tailor who had lived in France for a decade, drew attention to security concerns in Aubervilliers, the northern suburb where he resided. That case highlighted a pocket of racial conflict in France, where the integration struggles of Muslims, the largest religious minority in the country, had been getting the most attention.
去年，在法国居住了十年的裁缝张朝林被殴打致死，在他居住的巴黎北郊奥贝维埃引发了安全关切。该案件凸显了法国小区域内的种族冲突，穆斯林是该国最大的宗教少数团体，它在融入社会方面的挣扎受到最大的关注。
The local authorities had promised improvements in neighborhood policing by providing translation services for people who wanted to report crimes, for instance, after a round of protests in the summer of last year.
去年夏天的一系列抗议活动之后，地方当局已经答应改善邻里警务，例如为报案的人提供翻译服务。
But Tamara Lui, president of the community organization Chinese in France, said the population had not seen a noticeable change in the security situation, saying she was astonished by the “disproportionate force” used by the police against Mr. Liu.
但法国华人社区组织负责人雷丹宇(Tamara Lui)说，人们并未感觉安全形势有了明显改变，她说，警方对刘少尧“过度使用武力”令她感到震惊。
“We are not the only victims, we never say that,” she said in a phone interview from Paris. “But we feel powerless and abandoned by the state.”
“我们不是唯一的受害者，我们从来没有这样说，”她在巴黎接受电话采访时说。“但我们感到无能为力，感到被这个国家抛弃。”
She said the best way to soothe the community and prevent further violence would be to release a “credible and coherent version of the facts.”
她说，安抚社区，防止进一步暴力的最好办法就是发布“可靠和前后一致的事实真相”。
While she condemned any violence in response to Mr. Liu’s death, she said that she had no control over the protests. “It’s almost like a time bomb,” she said adding that other immigrant communities facing similar issues had pledged to join the Asians’ fight.
一方面，她谴责因刘少尧的死亡而导致的任何暴力事件，但她也说自己无法控制抗议活动。“这几乎就像是一枚定时炸弹，”她补充说，面临类似问题的其他移民社区也承诺加入亚裔的战斗。
Thousands of people have taken part in several marches since February, when the police seized a 22-year-old black man who then accused the officers of raping him with a baton.
自二月份以来爆发了数次有几千人的游行，当时警方控制了一名22岁的黑人，后来此人指控警务人员用警棍强奸他。
In 2005, the deaths of two teenagers who were running from the police in Clichy-sous-Bois, another Paris suburb, ignited weeks of rioting and marches against police brutality in cities around France, starting a national debate on the integration of immigrants.
2005年，在另一个巴黎郊区克利希，两名正在逃出警局的青少年死亡，引发了数周的骚乱，并在法国各地的城市导致了反对警察暴行的游行，从而带来了关于移民融合问题的全国讨论。
On Tuesday, a spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry said that the country attached “great importance” to Mr. Liu’s killing and demanded that France “thoroughly investigate the incident and take effective measures to ensure the safety and legal rights of Chinese nationals in France.”
周二，中国外交部发言人说，中方对刘少尧的遇害“高度重视”，并要求法国“尽快查明真相，并采取切实有效措施保障在法中国公民安全与合法权益。”
The French Foreign Ministry, in a statement on Tuesday, said that an investigation was underway. “The security of all Chinese nationals in France is a priority for the French authorities,” the ministry said.
法国外交部周二在一份声明中说，相关调查正在进行中。声明表示：“法国所有华人的安全是法国要务。”