PARIS – Huawei is taking another run at the global smartphone dominance of Apple and Samsung.
巴黎——华为正在向苹果(Apple)和三星(Samsung)的全球手机市场主导地位发动新一轮攻势。
On Wednesday, Huawei, already the third largest smartphone maker, introduced its latest phone, called the Ascend P7.
周三，已是全球第三大手机制造商的华为推出了名为Ascend P7的最新款手机。
Huawei hopes the new phone will help it gain traction with global consumers who are still not familiar with the Chinese brand. It runs on Google’s Android operating system.
全球消费者依然不熟悉华为这个中国品牌，而华为希望这款新手机能帮助吸引他们。该机型运行的是谷歌(Google)的Android操作系统。
“It’s not only for the Chinese market,” said Joonsuh Kim, Huawei’s vice president of mobile design, who previously worked at Samsung and Nokia. “We are working, step by step, to build our brand.”
华为手机设计副总裁金俊舒（Joonsuh Kim，音译）说，“这款机器不只是为中国市场而生。我们在一步步地努力树立自己的品牌。”金俊舒曾供职于三星和诺基亚(Nokia)。
To attract new consumers, the Chinese phone maker’s new handset has many features that compete directly with those of its more established rivals.
为了吸引新顾客，这款新手机拥有许多特色，可以直接与那些更著名竞争对手的产品一较高下。
That includes a 5-inch, high-definition display, 8 megapixel front camera and a battery life that last up to 6.5 hours when browsing the Internet, according to the Chinese company.
据这家中国公司透露，这些特色包括一个5英寸的高分辨率屏幕，800万像素的前置摄像头，以及在浏览互联网时也能待机长达6.5小时的电池。
The phone also is slimmer than both Apple’s iPhone 5S and Samsung’s Galaxy S5, and Huawei has priced the handset at $625, or slightly less than what an iPhone 5S costs in Apple’s United States stores without a wireless carrier subsidizing the cost.
这款手机还比苹果的iPhone 5S和三星的Galaxy S5更薄，华为把这款手机的售价定为625美元（约合3900元人民币），略低于美国苹果店里未扣除无线运营商补贴的iPhone 5S价格。
United States customers, however, will have to wait to get their hands on the phone.The Chinese company said that it would unveil the phone in more than 30 countries in early June, but it would not be available in the United States until later this summer.
然而，美国消费者要拿到这款手机尚需时日。华为表示，公司将于6月初在全球30多个国家推出这款机器，美国则要到今年夏天晚些时候才会有这款机器。
Despite its growing global appeal, Huawei’s brand remains relatively unknown in the United States, as it has yet to pen deals with the major carriers like Verizon and AT&T for its high-end phones.
虽然该品牌的全球吸引力日渐增长，但在美国，它依然相对鲜为人知，原因是华为还没有和威瑞森通讯公司(Verizon)和AT&T等美国主要运营商签约销售其高端手机。
“You can’t just jump into that market,” said Mr. Kim of Huawei. “You need to work directly with the carriers.”
华为的金俊舒说，“你不能就这样一头闯进市场。你需要和运营商直接联手。”
Huawei is one of a number of Chinese phone makers that are branching out of their home market after riding a wave of demand from local consumers for costly smartphones. As the country’s growing middle class clamor for the latest gadgets, companies like Apple have been keen to expand their presence in the fast-growing market.
中国消费者对高价智能手机的需求势头大涨，多家中国手机制造商乘势拓展海外市场，华为是其中的一家。随着日渐壮大的中国中产阶级纷纷追求最新款的电子产品，苹果等公司一直急于在快速增长的中国市场扩大份额。
The Chinese handset rival Xiaomi, for example, announced last month that it was expanding into 10 global markets, including India, Brazil and Russia.
例如，华为的竞争对手、中国手机商小米在上个月宣布，该公司计划把业务扩展到全球的10个市场，包括印度、巴西和俄罗斯。
The international ambitions for the Chinese handset makers come as domestic demand for smartphones continues at pace.
中国手机制造商萌发国际野心之时，中国国内市场对智能手机的需求仍在持续增长。
During the first quarter of the year, 40 percent of the world’s smartphones were shipped to China, according to the data research company IDC. And Huawei and Lenovo represented a combined 9.5 percent of the global smartphone market, compared to Apple’s 15.5 percent stake, over the same period.
数据调研公司国际数据公司(IDC)称，今年第一季度，全球40%的智能手机被运往了中国。华为和联想合起来占全球智能手机市场的9.5%，苹果在同期的份额则是15.5%。
“The face of the smartphone market is changing rapidly to reflect the rise of its largest market, China,” said Melissa Chau, IDC’s senior research manager. “In a quarter where global shipments declined sequentially, China bucked the trend.”
“智能手机市场的状况正在迅速发生变化，反映中国这个最大的智能手机市场的崛起，”IDC的高级调研经理梅丽莎·曹(Melissa Chau)说，“在全球出货量相继下降的季度，中国却逆势而进。”
The push into consumer products is relatively new for Huawei, a Chinese telecom company founded in 1988 that is best known for manufacturing mobile infrastructure equipment used by some of the world’s largest carriers.
对华为而言，进军消费品行业是相对较新的举措。作为一家创立于1988年的中国电信公司，华为最出名的业务是为全世界最大的一些运营商制造移动基础设施设备。
The company generated almost 70 percent of its $39 billion of revenue last year from its mobile infrastructure business, compared to just 25 percent, or $9.8 billion, from its consumer products unit. The remaining 5 percent of Huawei’s revenue came from selling its telecom services to industrial clients.
去年，在该公司390亿美元的收入中，移动基础设施业务带来的收入占比近70%，相比之下，华为旗下的消费品部门收入为98亿美元，占比仅为25%。华为剩下5%的收入来自向工业客户销售电信服务。