Huawei and ZTE have a lot in common. They both primarily sell networking equipment, and they both want to be a more powerful force in consumer products like smartphones.
华为和中兴有很多相似之处。两家公司均主要销售网络设备，都希望在智能手机等消费品市场上增强实力。
And this week at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona, the two companies made a big push in that new direction, showing off new mobile products. Huawei introduced smartphones, tablets and even a smartwatch that could turn into a Bluetooth headset. ZTE showed some new big-screen smartphones.
本周，在巴塞罗那的世界移动通信大会(Mobile World Congress)贸易展览上，两家公司都朝着前述新方向大举进军，展示了新的移动产品。华为发布了智能手机和平板电脑，乃至一款可以变成蓝牙耳机的智能手表。中兴则展示了一些新款大屏智能手机。
The companies are already selling lots of phones. But most of those sales are coming in China, and both companies admit they have work cut out for them elsewhere, including in the United States.
两家公司都已在大量销售手机。然而，两家公司的绝大部分销售额都来自中国，两家公司也都承认，在包括美国在内的其他地方，自己还有工作要做。
Eric Xu, Huawei’s acting chief executive, said in a group interview this week that the company achieved brand awareness among 52 percent of people globally last year, and he said he hoped the number would increase to 70 percent in the near future. But in the United States, Huawei phone sales did not increase much last year, in large part because the company did not release new handsets in the country.
华为代理首席执行官徐直军本周接受群访时称，公司去年在全球52%的消费者中获得了品牌知名度。他还表示，他希望这一比例能在不久的将来增加到70%。但在美国，华为去年的手机销售并未出现太大增长，这在很大程度上是因为该公司未在该国推出新款手机。
“We’re not reining back our products from the U.S. market,” Mr. Xu said. “We just didn’t launch new products.” He said the company had chosen to focus on Europe and China and that it had done especially well in China.
“我们并不是刻意不向美国市场投放产品，”徐直军说，“只是没有推出新产品而已。”他说，公司已经选择把重点放在欧洲和中国，公司在中国的表现也特别好。
In the United States, ZTE mostly sells prepaid smartphones, a model that allows consumers to buy the phone for full price in exchange for a lower monthly bill. The chief executive of the company’s American division, Lixin Cheng, said the company’s strategy was to get people to choose a ZTE phone as their first phone so they would remain loyal to the brand.But ZTE does not plan to be aggressive with traditional marketing in the United States. Instead, it will rely on a grass-roots campaign using social media to promote its brand.
在美国，中兴卖出的基本上都是预付费智能手机，这种模式可以让消费者通过全价购机享有更便宜的月费。中兴美国首席执行官程立新表示，中兴的战略是让人们把中兴的手机选为自己的第一部手机，由此对这个品牌保持忠诚。但中兴无意在美国大举开展传统的营销活动。相反，该公司会发起一场草根运动，利用社交媒体来推广自己的品牌。
“We are not going to take the consumers’ money and build the brand and ask you to pay more,” Mr. Cheng said in an interview.
程立新在采访中说，“我们不会拿消费者的钱来搞品牌建设，然后让你付更多的钱。”
To improve their sales in the United States, the companies will need to do far more than build recognition. They will most likely have to build trust among consumers, too, as some American politicians have called Huawei and ZTE a national security threat. In 2012, the House Intelligence Committee accused the companies of stealing intellectual property from American companies and said they could spy on Americans if their network equipment were allowed in the country.
为了提高在美国的销量，这些公司要做的远不止是提高辨识度。他们很可能必须赢得消费者的信任，因为有些美国政治人士认为，华为和中兴对国家安全造成了威胁。2012年，众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)指责这些公司窃取了美国企业的知识产权，并且表示，如果允许它们的网络设备进入美国，它们可能会对美国人进行监视。
That is a particular tough spot to be in, especially after the revelations about surveillance by the United States government from leaks by a former contractor for the National Security Agency, Edward J. Snowden, further raised concerns about spying in general.
这个处境尤其困难，尤其是因为美国政府的监听项目被前国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的文件曝光，进一步加深了人们对监视活动的担忧。
Mr. Cheng pointed out that ZTE is a publicly traded company, with 18 percent of its shares owned by American investors, while Huawei is a private company. He said that ZTE handsets used chips and software made by American companies.
程立新指出，中兴是一家上市公司，18%的股份都由美国投资人持有，而华为是一家私有企业。他说，中兴手机使用的芯片和软件都是由美国公司制造的。
“The manufacturing is in China, but iPhone is manufactured in China,” he said. “A lot of Samsung phones are also manufactured in China. So there is no difference.”
“制造流程确实是在中国，但iPhone是在中国制造的，”他说。“许多三星手机也是在中国制造的。所以没什么区别。”
Huawei’s Mr. Xu said the company was not paying much attention to the revelations from Mr. Snowden’s leaks. But the company has said it plans to pull its telecommunications equipment from the American market.
华为的徐直军说，公司没有过多地关注斯诺登泄密事件。不过，该公司已经表示，它计划把它的通讯设备撤出美国市场。
ZTE’s Mr. Cheng said his company could play an important role in improving the relationship between the United States and China as a whole. The first steps, he said, were to behave responsibly and help people understand the company better to build trust.
中兴的程立新说，他的公司可以在整体改善中美关系方面发挥重大作用。他说，第一步就是采取负责任的行为方式，让人们更好地了解公司，建立信任。