“The United States government is not going to default, ever.”
“美国政府绝不会违约，绝对不会。”
That’s what Vincent Reinhart, former head of the Federal Reserve’s monetary division and now managing director and chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley, said late last week.
这些话是前美联储(Federal Reserve)货币政策部门负责人、现任摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)董事总经理和首席美国经济学家文森特·莱因哈特(Vincent Reinhart)上周晚些时候说的。
“As political theater,” he said, “the debt ceiling is not a useful threat, because politicians are basically threatening to shoot themselves, as they will rightly shoulder the blame for the serious global economic consequences of a default.”
“作为政治闹剧，”他说，“债务上限并不是一个有用的威胁，因为政治人物们其实是在威胁要朝自己开枪；美国政府的违约将会对国际社会造成严重的经济影响，而相关罪责恰恰要由他们来承担。”
Mr. Reinhart’s view has become conventional wisdom on Wall Street when it comes to whether the country will hit the debt ceiling limit on Oct. 17. Warren Buffett put it this way: “We’ll go right up to the point of extreme idiocy, but we won’t cross it.”
在关于美国是否会在10月17日抵达债务上限的问题上，莱因哈特的观点得到了华尔街的一致认可。沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)是这样说的：“我们会一直逼近极端愚蠢的极限，但不会超越那个极限。”
Nobody believes the country will actually exceed the debt limit — which is exactly why it might.
没人认为美国真的会突破债务上限——而这恰恰就是突破债务上限可能会发生的原因。
Oddly enough, despite all the predictions of panic, the stock market was down only marginally over the last couple of sessions.
奇怪的是，虽然很多人预测将出现恐慌，但是股市在过去几个交易日里只出现了小幅下跌。
Here’s the perversity of Wall Street’s psychology: The more Wall Street is convinced that Washington will act rationally and raise the debt ceiling, most likely at the 11th hour, the less pressure there will be on lawmakers to reach an agreement. That will make it more likely a deal isn’t reached.
华尔街的奇怪心理如下：华尔街越是相信华盛顿会采取理智行动，提高债务上限（极可能是在晚上11点之后），议员们在达成妥协方面所承受的压力就越小。这就使得妥协更不可能达成。
John Podesta, the former chief of staff for President Bill Clinton, said that while only weeks ago he thought it was almost impossible that Congress wouldn’t reach a deal, he now questions whether it will be reached in time.
曾担任比尔·克林顿总统(Bill Clinton)幕僚长的约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)说，虽然仅仅几周前，他还认为国会不可能达不成妥协，然而他现在却担心国会能否及时达成妥协。
What happens when the government exceeds the debt limit? It is often forgotten, but it actually did default once, in 1979 — but this was by accident.
如果美国政府超过债务上限将会发生什么？人们往往会忘记政府的确曾违约过一次，那是在1979年——但那次是个意外。
Here’s a history lesson from Donald B. Marron of the Tax Policy Center: He wrote on his blog in 2011 — the last time this game of chicken was taking place — that Congress raised the debt ceiling at the 11th hour in 1979 but the government “defaulted because Treasury’s back office was on the fritz.” He explained that the government ultimately paid the debt back in full.
税收政策中心(Tax Policy Center)主任唐纳德·B·马伦(Donald B. Marron)给我们提供了一个历史教训。他2011年（也即这种危急关头拼胆量的游戏上次发生的时候）在博客中写道，1979年，国会在11点之后提高了债务上限，但政府“还是违约了，因为财政部的后勤部门出了问题”。他解释称，政府最终全额偿还了债务。
So what happened to interest rates? “T-bill rates rose almost 0.6 percentage points (i.e., 60 basis points). There’s no indication this increase reversed in the days that followed.” That may sound like a lot — and it is — but let’s put that in context: “T-bill rates hover near zero compared to the 9-10 percent range of the late-1970s; that means a temporary delay in payments would be less costly for creditors.”
那么，利率的情况如何？“国债的利率几乎上升了0.6个百分点（也即60个基准点）。而在随后的几天，并没有迹象表明上升的幅度发生了扭转。”听起来似乎很多（事实也是如此），不过我们需要看看背景：“现在的国债利率接近于零，相比之下，20世纪70年代末的利率为9%至10%；这意味着暂时拖延偿付给债权人造成的损失也更低。”
Of course, for the last several weeks we have heard ad nauseam about how imperative it is for Congress to raise the debt ceiling or risk imperiling the creditworthiness of the United States. Even approaching the deadline without a resolution was supposed to send the market into a panic and interest rates skyrocketing.
当然，过去几周内，我们已经听说了太多关于国会必须马上提高债务上限，否则就将破坏美国的良好信誉的说法。随着最后期限将近，而国会尚未达成决议，市场很可能由此陷入恐慌，并促使利率飙升。
And yet here we are, about a week before the deadline, and the market hasn’t cratered despite remarks over the weekend by House Speaker John A. Boehner, who indicated, for the first time, that he planned to use the debt ceiling as a negotiating chip in seeking concessions from President Obama, who has steadfastly refused to negotiate. “I told the president, there’s no way we’re going to pass one,” Mr. Boehner said. “The votes are not in the House to pass a clean debt limit. And the president is risking default by not having a conversation with us.”
但是现在，在距离最后期限仅一周之遥的时候，市场仍未崩溃，虽然众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)曾在周末首次表示，他打算利用债务上限作为谈判筹码，以此迫使坚决不肯协商的奥巴马总统做出让步。“我告诉总统，我们绝不可能通过这个提案，”博纳说，“众议院绝不会投票通过没有任何附加条件的债务上限。总统不肯和我们交流，这会造成让美国违约的危险。”
Almost bizarrely, the market’s reaction — or lack of one in this case — may actually contribute to an outcome everyone has been railing against.
堪称怪异的是，对于这个令所有人不满的结果，市场的反应（具体到这件事上应该说“没有反应”）其实可能起到了推波助澜的作用。
The ruinous potential for a default has had Wall Street leaders screaming from the rooftops: “Whatever circumstances and disagreements got us to this current unhappy juncture, there is no way that our government leaders can allow the full faith and credit of the United States of America to be jeopardized. This is an issue that affects every single citizen, from veterans to Social Security recipients to government bondholders to all taxpayers, and threatens to derail an already fragile economic recovery,” James P. Gorman, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mail to his employees, urging them to contact their representatives in Washington.
可能出现的违约会有灾难性的后果，这已经促使华尔街的领导人物们站在房顶上惊呼。摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)首席执行官詹姆斯·P·戈尔曼(James P. Gorman)在发送给员工的一份电子邮件中说，“无论是什么样的状况和分歧将我们置于如此痛苦的关头，我们的政府领导人都不会坐视美利坚合众国的充分信任和尊重受到威胁。这个问题涉及每一个公民，从退伍军人到社会安全福利领取者，从政府债务持有者到所有纳税人。它还有可能会破坏已经很脆弱的经济复苏。”他在邮件中还敦促员工联系他们在华盛顿的代表。
Goldman Sachs put it this way: “A very short delay past the October deadline — for instance, a few days — could delay the payment of some obligations already incurred and would create instability in the financial markets.” He added, “This uncertainty alone could weigh on growth.”
高盛(Goldman Sachs)是这样说的：“10月份最后期限一旦超过，哪怕只是短短几天，都可能会拖延某些已经负担的债务的偿还，可能就会在金融市场制造不稳定，”文中还说，“仅仅是这种不确定性，就可以抑制增长了。”
For some market participants, the prospect of reaching the debt limit isn’t worrisome, not because they don’t think a deal will be reached but because — and I disagree with this — they believe that the Oct. 17 deadline is either fake — they speculate that Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has built in some wiggle room to force a decision — or that the government would ultimately be able to prioritize certain payments over others so that it could continue to pay its debts and Social Security payments. Of course, the Treasury disputes that, saying it is impossible to prioritize the millions of payments that the government makes every day.
对一些市场参与者而言，触及债务上限的前景并不令人担忧。不是因为他们认为能够达成妥协，而是因为——我不认同这一点——他们觉得10月17日的最后期限要么是蒙人的（他们揣测财政部长雅各布·J·卢[Jacob J. Lew]为敦促决策的达成，事先预留了一些活动空间），要么政府最终能优先支付某些重点项目，这样就能继续履行债务、支付社会安全福利。当然，财政部否认这一点，称不可能从政府每天花费的千百万美元款项中挑出哪些应该优先支付。
A year ago, Stanley F. Druckenmiller, the hedge fund manager, told The Wall Street Journal: “I think technical default would be horrible, but I don’t think it’s going to be the end of the world. It’s not going to be catastrophic. What’s going to be catastrophic is if we don’t solve the real problem.”
一年前，对冲基金经理斯坦利·F·德鲁肯米勒(Stanley F. Druckenmiller)对《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)说：“我想技术上的违约是很恐怖的，但我并不觉得那是世界末日，后果不会是灾难性的。如果我们不解决真正的问题，那才会有灾难性的后果。”
He is right about the need to solve the big problems. But unless we sit up and pay attention, we may create an even larger one.
他说需要解决大问题的观点是正确的。但除非我们保持警惕、密切关注，否则可能会创造出更大的问题。