IN my last year on Wall Street my bonus was $3.6 million — and I was angry because it wasn’t big enough. I was 30 years old, had no children to raise, no debts to pay, no philanthropic goal in mind. I wanted more money for exactly the same reason an alcoholic needs another drink: I was addicted.
在华尔街的最后一年，我的奖金是360万美元（约合2100万元人民币）——我相当气愤，因为这实在不够多。我30岁，没有孩子要抚养，没有债要还，没想过做慈善。我想要更多的钱，这就和一个酒鬼还想再来一杯的理由如出一辙，那就是我上瘾了。
Eight years earlier, I’d walked onto the trading floor at Credit Suisse First Boston to begin my summer internship. I already knew I wanted to be rich, but when I started out I had a different idea about what wealth meant. I’d come to Wall Street after reading in the book “Liar’s Poker” how Michael Lewis earned a $225,000 bonus after just two years of work on a trading floor. That seemed like a fortune. Every January and February, I think about that time, because these are the months when bonuses are decided and distributed, when fortunes are made.
早在八年前，我就步入瑞士信贷第一波士顿银行（Credit Suisse First Boston，简称CSFB），开始了我的暑期实习生涯。我知道自己想要变得富有，然而，当我开始为此努力时，我对财富的意义有了不一样的理解。我是在读了《说谎者的扑克牌》(Liar’s Poker)这本书后来到华尔街的，书中描述了迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)是如何仅仅凭借交易大厅里的两年打拼，就挣得了22.5万美元的奖金。这看起来是一大笔钱。每年的1月和2月，我都会想起那段日子，因为这是决定和分发奖金的日子，是挣大钱的日子。
I’d learned about the importance of being rich from my dad. He was a modern-day Willy Loman, a salesman with huge dreams that never seemed to materialize. “Imagine what life will be like,” he’d say, “when I make a million dollars.” While he dreamed of selling a screenplay, in reality he sold kitchen cabinets. And not that well. We sometimes lived paycheck to paycheck off my mom’s nurse-practitioner salary.
我从父亲那里了解到了成为富人的重要性。他是当代的威利·罗曼(Willy Loman)，是一名有着远大梦想却似乎从未将其变为现实的销售员。他说，“想想当我赚到100万美元时，生活会是什么样儿。”他梦想着能卖电影剧本，可是现实里，他在卖橱柜。而且生意不怎么样。我们不时要靠母亲做执业护理师的收入勉强度日。
Dad believed money would solve all his problems. At 22, so did I. When I walked onto that trading floor for the first time and saw the glowing flat-screen TVs, high-tech computer monitors and phone turrets with enough dials, knobs and buttons to make it seem like the cockpit of a fighter plane, I knew exactly what I wanted to do with the rest of my life. It looked as if the traders were playing a video game inside a spaceship; if you won this video game, you became what I most wanted to be — rich.
父亲相信，钱能解决他所有的问题。22岁时，我也这么认为了。当我第一次走进交易大厅，看着闪闪发亮的平板电视、高科技的电脑显示器和布满拨号键和各式按钮、看上去就像战斗机驾驶舱的那种电话时，我就知道，我这辈子究竟想要做什么了。那场景就好像交易员正在太空船里玩电子游戏；如果你能赢得这场游戏，你就会变成我最渴望变成的人——富人。
IT was a miracle I’d made it to Wall Street at all. While I was competitive and ambitious — a wrestler at Columbia University — I was also a daily drinker and pot smoker and a regular user of cocaine, Ritalin and ecstasy. I had a propensity for self-destruction that had resulted in my getting suspended from Columbia for burglary, arrested twice and fired from an Internet company for fistfighting. I learned about rage from my dad, too. I can still see his red, contorted face as he charged toward me. I’d lied my way into the C.S.F.B. internship by omitting my transgressions from my résumé and was determined not to blow what seemed a final chance. The only thing as important to me as that internship was my girlfriend, a starter on the Columbia volleyball team. But even though I was in love with her, when I got drunk I’d sometimes end up with other women.
我能进入华尔街完全就是个奇迹。当我还是哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的摔跤运动员时，就争强好胜、野心勃勃，我每天都喝酒、吸大麻，还定期吸食可卡因、利他林和摇头丸。我有自毁倾向，这导致了我因为盗窃被哥伦比亚大学暂停了学业，我还因为和人打架被捕过两次，因为同样理由被一家互联网公司给开除过。我从父亲那里了解了愤怒。我依然能回想起他冲向我时，那张通红、扭曲的脸。我在简历里抹去了自己的过失，靠谎言获得了CSFB的实习职位，我下定决心，不能错失这个似乎是我最后一次机会的机会。唯一一件和实习职位同等重要的大事是我的女友，她是哥伦比亚大学排球队的新人。不过，即使在和她恋爱时，假如喝醉了，有时我也会和别的女人搞在一起。
Three weeks into my internship she wisely dumped me. I don’t like who you’ve become, she said. I couldn’t blame her, but I was so devastated that I couldn’t get out of bed. In desperation, I called a counselor whom I had reluctantly seen a few times before and asked for help.
我实习开始三周后，她明智地甩了我。她说，我不喜欢你变成这个样子。我无法埋怨她，可是我悲痛欲绝，都没法起床了。在绝望之中，我给一位之前曾不情愿地见过数面的辅导员打了电话，向她求助。
She helped me see that I was using alcohol and drugs to blunt the powerlessness I felt as a kid and suggested I give them up. That began some of the hardest months of my life. Without the alcohol and drugs in my system, I felt like my chest had been cracked open, exposing my heart to air. The counselor said that my abuse of drugs and alcohol was a symptom of an underlying problem — a “spiritual malady,” she called it. C.S.F.B. didn’t offer me a full-time job, and I returned, distraught, to Columbia for senior year.
她使我明白了，我在利用酒精和毒品来削弱我孩提时的无力感，她建议我放弃这些东西。我由此开始了一生中最难熬的一段日子。由于生活里没了酒精和毒品，我感觉就像自己的胸膛被剖开了，心都被暴露在外。辅导员说，我滥用毒品和酒精，这只是一个深层问题的表象——她说这是一种“精神痼疾”。CSFB没给我提供全职工作，我心烦意乱地回到了哥伦比亚大学，继续最后一年的学业。
After graduation, I got a job at Bank of America, by the grace of a managing director willing to take a chance on a kid who had called him every day for three weeks. With a year of sobriety under my belt, I was sharp, cleareyed and hard-working. At the end of my first year I was thrilled to receive a $40,000 bonus. For the first time in my life, I didn’t have to check my balance before I withdrew money. But a week later, a trader who was only four years my senior got hired away by C.S.F.B. for $900,000. After my initial envious shock — his haul was 22 times the size of my bonus — I grew excited at how much money was available.
毕业后，我给美国银行(Bank of America)的一名执行董事连续不断地连打了三周的电话，蒙他开恩，给了我这个毛头小子一个机会，我在那里谋得了一份工作。经过一年的冷静沉淀，我变得头脑清晰、目光敏锐、工作卖力。第一年工作结束时，我激动地收到了4万美元的奖金。生平第一次，我不需要在取钱之前查自己的余额。不过一周后，一名只比我入行早四年的交易员被CSFB挖走时，拿到了90万美元。这笔钱相当于我奖金的22倍，一开始，我是既妒忌又惊讶，然而一想到这个行业能挣这么多的钱，我就变得兴奋不已。
Over the next few years I worked like a maniac and began to move up the Wall Street ladder. I became a bond and credit default swap trader, one of the more lucrative roles in the business. Just four years after I started at Bank of America, Citibank offered me a “1.75 by 2” which means $1.75 million per year for two years, and I used it to get a promotion. I started dating a pretty blonde and rented a loft apartment on Bond Street for $6,000 a month.
接下来的几年里，我像疯子一样地工作，开始在华尔街的梯队里青云直上。我成了一名债券和信用违约掉期交易员，这是业内最挣钱的职位之一。我在美国银行工作了仅仅四年后，花旗银行(Citibank)给我提供了“1.75X2”的职位，意思是我将在两年里获得每年175万美元的酬劳，我靠着这个升了职。我开始和一名美丽的金发美女约会，在邦德街租了一间带阁楼的公寓，月租金为6000美元。
I felt so important. At 25, I could go to any restaurant in Manhattan — Per Se, Le Bernardin — just by picking up the phone and calling one of my brokers, who ingratiate themselves to traders by entertaining with unlimited expense accounts. I could be second row at the Knicks-Lakers game just by hinting to a broker I might be interested in going. The satisfaction wasn’t just about the money. It was about the power. Because of how smart and successful I was, it was someone else’s job to make me happy.
我感觉自己太了不起了。在25岁的年纪，我只要抓起电话，跟我的经纪人之一打个招呼，就可以去曼哈顿的任何一家餐厅——比如Per Se和Le Bernardin——就餐，这些经纪人用不封顶的娱乐款项来讨好交易员。我只需向经纪人暗示一下，自己或许对尼克斯队(Knicks)对湖人队(Lakers)的比赛感兴趣，就能坐在现场的第二排。其中的满足感不仅和钱有关，还和权力有关。因为我如此聪明、如此成功，所以，理应由别人来讨我开心。
Still, I was nagged by envy. On a trading desk everyone sits together, from interns to managing directors. When the guy next to you makes $10 million, $1 million or $2 million doesn’t look so sweet. Nonetheless, I was thrilled with my progress.
然而，我依然受到妒忌的困扰。在交易台前，从实习生到执行董事的所有人都坐在一起。当你旁边的人挣了1000万美元，100万或者200万美元看起来就不那么诱人了。尽管如此，我还是对自己的进步感到兴奋。
My counselor didn’t share my elation. She said I might be using money the same way I’d used drugs and alcohol — to make myself feel powerful — and that maybe it would benefit me to stop focusing on accumulating more and instead focus on healing my inner wound. “Inner wound”? I thought that was going a little far and went to work for a hedge fund.
我的辅导员没有分享我的喜悦。她说，我也许在用金钱使自己感到强大，就像我用毒品和酒精这么做一样，还说也许精力集中在医治我的内伤，而不是积攒更多的钱上，也许会对我有益。“内伤”？我想这个说法也许有点扯远了，于是我到一家对冲基金公司上班去了。
Now, working elbow to elbow with billionaires, I was a giant fireball of greed. I’d think about how my colleagues could buy Micronesia if they wanted to, or become mayor of New York City. They didn’t just have money; they had power — power beyond getting a table at Le Bernardin. Senators came to their offices. They were royalty.
现在，我和亿万富翁一起并肩共事，我成了一个精力充沛、贪婪无比的家伙。我会琢磨，假使我的同事愿意的话，他们会如何买下密克罗尼西亚，或者成为纽约市的市长。他们不仅是有钱而已；他们还有权——那是超出在Le Bernardin订到一张桌子的权力。参议员们会到这些富翁的办公室去。他们是皇族。
I wanted a billion dollars. It’s staggering to think that in the course of five years, I’d gone from being thrilled at my first bonus — $40,000 — to being disappointed when, my second year at the hedge fund, I was paid “only” $1.5 million.
我想挣到10亿美元。仅仅过了五年我就会这么想，这是让人惊讶的。从拿到第一笔4万美元奖金时的兴奋，已经到了我在对冲基金工作第二年时“仅仅”拿到150万美元时的失望了。
But in the end, it was actually my absurdly wealthy bosses who helped me see the limitations of unlimited wealth. I was in a meeting with one of them, and a few other traders, and they were talking about the new hedge-fund regulations. Most everyone on Wall Street thought they were a bad idea. “But isn’t it better for the system as a whole?” I asked. The room went quiet, and my boss shot me a withering look. I remember his saying, “I don’t have the brain capacity to think about the system as a whole. All I’m concerned with is how this affects our company.”
不过最终，其实是我那些富得离谱的老板们，帮我看到了无尽财富的局限。我当时正在和他们中的一人及其他几名交易员开会，他们在谈论新的对冲基金规定。几乎华尔街的每个人都认为这是一个糟糕的主意。我问道，“可是总的来说，它对这个系统更有好处，不是吗？”整个房间都安静下来，我的老板严厉地白了我一眼。我记得他说，“我的脑力不足以让我从整体层面思考这个系统。我关心的只是，新规则会怎样影响我们的公司。”
I felt as if I’d been punched in the gut. He was afraid of losing money, despite all that he had.
我的感觉就像是肚子上挨了一拳。他已经那么有钱，还在担心自己损失钱财。
From that moment on, I started to see Wall Street with new eyes. I noticed the vitriol that traders directed at the government for limiting bonuses after the crash. I heard the fury in their voices at the mention of higher taxes. These traders despised anything or anyone that threatened their bonuses. Ever see what a drug addict is like when he’s used up his junk? He’ll do anything — walk 20 miles in the snow, rob a grandma — to get a fix. Wall Street was like that. In the months before bonuses were handed out, the trading floor started to feel like a neighborhood in “The Wire” when the heroin runs out.
从那一刻起，我开始以新的眼光看待华尔街。我注意到了金融危机之后，交易员因为政府限制奖金发放，对政府进行了尖酸的批评。每当提到加税，我能从他们的语调里听出愤懑之情。这些交易员对威胁他们奖金的任何事或任何人都不假辞色。你有没有见过吸毒者毒品用尽时的样子？他会用尽一切手段——比如冒雪走上20英里，抢老奶奶的钱——就为了能来上一针。华尔街就和吸毒者的情况一样。在发放奖金前的几个月里，交易大厅开始让人感觉就像《火线》(The Wire)里没有了海洛因的街区一样。
I’d always looked enviously at the people who earned more than I did; now, for the first time, I was embarrassed for them, and for me. I made in a single year more than my mom made her whole life. I knew that wasn’t fair; that wasn’t right. Yes, I was sharp, good with numbers. I had marketable talents. But in the end I didn’t really do anything. I was a derivatives trader, and it occurred to me the world would hardly change at all if credit derivatives ceased to exist. Not so nurse practitioners. What had seemed normal now seemed deeply distorted.
我总是满怀妒忌地看着那些比我赚得多的人；现在，我第一次为他们、为我自己感到羞愧。我一年挣的钱比我母亲一辈子挣的钱还多。我知道这不公平；这不对。是的，我思维敏捷、长于计算。我有市场欢迎的那种才华。然而，到了最后，我并未真正地干过任何事。我是一名衍生产品交易员，对我来说，如果信用衍生品不复存在，这个世界几乎不会有任何变化。跟执业护理师差远了。以前觉得很平常的事情，现在看来是极为扭曲的。
I had recently finished Taylor Branch’s three-volume series on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the civil rights movement, and the image of the Freedom Riders stepping out of their bus into an infuriated mob had seared itself into my mind. I’d told myself that if I’d been alive in the ‘60s, I would have been on that bus.
我最近拜读了泰勒·布兰奇(Taylor Branch)写牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)和民权运动的三卷本著作，“自由乘车者”(Freedom Riders)从大巴上下来，走进愤怒的暴民中的场景，深深地印入了我了脑海。我对自己说，如果我活在上世纪60年代，我也会在那辆车上。
But I was lying to myself. There were plenty of injustices out there — rampant poverty, swelling prison populations, a sexual-assault epidemic, an obesity crisis. Not only was I not helping to fix any problems in the world, but I was profiting from them. During the market crash in 2008, I’d made a ton of money by shorting the derivatives of risky companies. As the world crumbled, I profited. I’d seen the crash coming, but instead of trying to help the people it would hurt the most — people who didn’t have a million dollars in the bank — I’d made money off it. I don’t like who you’ve become, my girlfriend had said years earlier. She was right then, and she was still right. Only now, I didn’t like who I’d become either.
但我其实是在骗自己。世上的不平事有的是——极端贫困、监狱人口膨胀、性侵事件泛滥、肥胖危机。我不仅没在帮助解决这其中的任何问题，而且还在从中牟利。2008年市场崩盘时，通过卖空高风险公司的衍生品，我赚了一大笔钱。全世界都在破产，我却在赚钱。我眼看着危机一步步逼近，却没有帮助可能受到最大打击的人们——那些银行账户里没有100万美元的人——我还利用危机赚钱。我女朋友几年前对我说，我不喜欢现在的你。她说对了，她一直都是对的。只不过现在，我也不喜欢那时的我了。
Wealth addiction was described by the late sociologist and playwright Philip Slater in a 1980 book, but addiction researchers have paid the concept little attention. Like alcoholics driving drunk, wealth addiction imperils everyone. Wealth addicts are, more than anybody, specifically responsible for the ever widening rift that is tearing apart our once great country. Wealth addicts are responsible for the vast and toxic disparity between the rich and the poor and the annihilation of the middle class. Only a wealth addict would feel justified in receiving $14 million in compensation — including an $8.5 million bonus — as the McDonald’s C.E.O., Don Thompson, did in 2012, while his company then published a brochure for its work force on how to survive on their low wages. Only a wealth addict would earn hundreds of millions as a hedge-fund manager, and then lobby to maintain a tax loophole that gave him a lower tax rate than his secretary.
已故的社会学家、剧作家菲利普·斯莱特(Philip Slater)在1980年的一本书中描述了对财富上瘾的症状，但是上瘾的研究者们很少关注这个概念。就像醉酒驾车的嗜酒者一样，财瘾患者对所有人都是一种危害。与其他人相比，财瘾患者尤其应该为目前出现的裂痕负责。这种裂痕正不断扩大，让我们曾经伟大的国家陷入分裂。对于富人和穷人之间的巨大而有害的鸿沟，以及中产阶级的毁灭，财瘾者也应该负责。只有对财富上瘾的人才会觉得1400万美元的工资合情合理——包括850万美元的奖金——这是麦当劳的首席执行官唐·汤普森(Don Thompson)在2012年拿到的数目，当时他的公司为员工印制了一本手册，告诉他们如何靠低工资生存下去。只有对财富上瘾的对冲基金经理才会怀揣数亿美元的收入，然后为了让一个税法漏洞继续存在而到处游说，因为这个漏洞让他需要缴纳的税率低于他的秘书。
DESPITE my realizations, it was incredibly difficult to leave. I was terrified of running out of money and of forgoing future bonuses. More than anything, I was afraid that five or 10 years down the road, I’d feel like an idiot for walking away from my one chance to be really important. What made it harder was that people thought I was crazy for thinking about leaving. In 2010, in a final paroxysm of my withering addiction, I demanded $8 million instead of $3.6 million. My bosses said they’d raise my bonus if I agreed to stay several more years. Instead, I walked away.
尽管经历了彻悟，但离开这一切仍非易事。一想到钱越花越少，还有要放弃未来的奖金，我就感到害怕。我最害怕的是，五到10年之后，我会因为放弃了一个成为真正的重要人物的机会而懊悔不已。人们都觉得离开的想法是发疯，这愈发让我难以下定决心。2010年，我已经逐渐减轻的财瘾最后发作了一次，我要求获得800万美元的奖金，而不是360万美元。我的老板说，如果我再留下来工作几年，他们会提高我的奖金。但我还是离开了。
The first year was really hard. I went through what I can only describe as withdrawal — waking up at nights panicked about running out of money, scouring the headlines to see which of my old co-workers had gotten promoted. Over time it got easier — I started to realize that I had enough money, and if I needed to make more, I could. But my wealth addiction still hasn’t gone completely away. Sometimes I still buy lottery tickets.
第一年真的很难。我只能用“戒断反应”来形容我的经历——我会半夜惊醒，对缺钱感到恐慌；为了看看哪个前同事升职了，我到处搜索新闻。但慢慢地，情况开始好转——我开始意识到，我的钱已经够用了，如果我需要赚更多钱，我也有这个能力。但是我的财瘾并没有完全消失。有时我还是会买彩票。
In the three years since I left, I’ve married, spoken in jails and juvenile detention centers about getting sober, taught a writing class to girls in the foster system, and started a nonprofit called Groceryships to help poor families struggling with obesity and food addiction. I am much happier. I feel as if I’m making a real contribution. And as time passes, the distortion lessens. I see Wall Street’s mantra — “We’re smarter and work harder than everyone else, so we deserve all this money” — for what it is: the rationalization of addicts. From a distance I can see what I couldn’t see then — that Wall Street is a toxic culture that encourages the grandiosity of people who are desperately trying to feel powerful.
在我辞职后的三年里，我结了婚，在监狱和青少年拘留中心进行过戒酒戒毒的演讲，给领养系统里的女孩子们开设了写作课，启动了一个叫做Groceryships的非营利项目，帮助为肥胖症和贪食症所折磨的穷人家庭。我比以前快乐多了。我感到自己好像真正做出了贡献。随着时间的流逝，扭曲感减轻了。我看到了华尔街念的那本经——我们比其他人聪明、勤奋，所以这些钱是我们应得的——背后的真相：对上瘾者的合理化。距离让我明白了我当时体会不到的东西——华尔街是一种有毒的文化，助长了那些不顾一切地想要感到强大的人的自大感。
I was lucky. My experience with drugs and alcohol allowed me to recognize my pursuit of wealth as an addiction. The years of work I did with my counselor helped me heal the parts of myself that felt damaged and inadequate, so that I had enough of a core sense of self to walk away.
我是幸运的。吸毒和酗酒的经验让我意识到，自己对财富的追求是一种上瘾。我和咨询师几年来的共同努力，帮助治愈了总是感到受伤和力不从心的那部分自我，所以才有了辞职所需的足够的核心自我意识。
Dozens of different types of 12-step support groups — including Clutterers Anonymous and On-Line Gamers Anonymous — exist to help addicts of various types, yet there is no Wealth Addicts Anonymous. Why not? Because our culture supports and even lauds the addiction. Look at the magazine covers in any newsstand, plastered with the faces of celebrities and C.E.O.'s; the superrich are our cultural gods. I hope we all confront our part in enabling wealth addicts to exert so much influence over our country.
有几十种不同类型的12步互助小组——包括匿名戒除杂乱协会(Clutterers Anonymous)和匿名戒除网瘾协会(On-Line Gamers Anonymous)——正在帮助各种类型的成瘾者，然而目前仍然没有匿名财富成瘾者协会。为什么呢？因为我们的文化鼓励、甚至是赞赏这种瘾。看看任何一个报摊上的杂志封面吧，都是名人和CEO们的醒目头像，超级富豪在我们的文化中是神一般的存在。我希望，我们都能正视这个事实：财瘾之所以能对我们国家产生如此大影响，我们每个人都有责任。
I generally think that if one is rich and believes they have “enough,” they are not a wealth addict. On Wall Street, in my experience, that sense of “enough” is rare. The money guy doing a job he complains about for yet another year so he can add $2 million to his $20 million bank account seems like an addict.
总的来说，我认为，如果一个人很富有，而且认为自己拥有的钱已经“足够了”，此人就不是财瘾患者。在华尔街，根据我的经验，这种“够了”的感觉很少见。一个人整天抱怨自己的工作，但是为了给2000万美元的银行账户中再添200万，他又工作了一年，这就叫上瘾。
I recently got an email from a hedge-fund trader who said that though he was making millions every year, he felt trapped and empty, but couldn’t summon the courage to leave. I believe there are others out there. Maybe we can form a group and confront our addiction together. And if you identify with what I’ve written, but are reticent to leave, then take a small step in the right direction. Let’s create a fund, where everyone agrees to put, say, 25 percent of their annual bonuses into it, and we’ll use that to help some of the people who actually need the money that we’ve been so rabidly chasing. Together, maybe we can make a real contribution to the world.
我最近收到了一名对冲基金交易员的邮件。他说，尽管每年赚几百万美元，他还是感到压抑和空虚，但却无法鼓足勇气离职。我相信，还有许多这样的人。也许我们可以组成一个团体，共同面对我们的瘾。如果你认同我的文章，但又不愿辞职，那么，至少往正确的方向上迈出一小步吧。让我们建立一家基金，人人都把年终奖的25%之类的放进去，我们就可以利用这笔钱，帮助一些真正需要我们狂热追逐的这些钱的人们。团结起来，我们说不定可以为世界做点真正的贡献。