WASHINGTON — As the government shutdown grinds toward a potential debt default, some of the county’s most influential business executives have come to a conclusion all but unthinkable a few years ago: Their voices are carrying little weight with the House majority that their millions of dollars in campaign contributions helped build and sustain.
华盛顿——随着政府停摆引发债务违约的可能，美国一些最有影响力的企业高管得出了一个几年前几乎不可想象的结论：对于他们花数百万美元竞选捐款帮助建立和维持的众议院多数党来说，他们的意见无足轻重。
Their frustration has grown so intense in recent days that several trade association officials warned in interviews on Wednesday that they were considering helping wage primary campaigns against Republican lawmakers who had worked to engineer the political standoff in Washington.
这些企业高管的失望情绪最近几天越发强烈，以至于几名行业协会的官员周三在接受采访时警告说，他们正考虑在初选中帮助打击一手造成华盛顿政治僵局的共和党议员。
Such an effort would thrust Washington’s traditionally cautious and pragmatic business lobby into open warfare with the Tea Party faction, which has grown in influence since the 2010 election and won a series of skirmishes with the Republican establishment in the last two years.
这样的行动会让华盛顿长期以来奉行谨慎和实用主义的企业游说组织不得不与茶党(Tea Party)公开作战，自从2010年大选以来，茶党的影响力已经增长，过去两年，它在与共和党领导层的角力中赢得了多场小战役。
“We are looking at ways to counter the rise of an ideological brand of conservatism that, for lack of a better word, is more anti-establishment than it has been in the past,” said David French, the top lobbyist at the National Retail Federation. “We have come to the conclusion that sitting on the sidelines is not good enough.”
美国零售联合会(National Retail Federation)的主要游说者戴维·弗伦奇(David French)说，“我们正在寻找方法遏制一种保守主义意识形态的崛起，这种意识形态比过去更加反建制。我们已经得出结论：袖手旁观行不通了。”
Some warned that a default could spur a shift in the relationship between the corporate world and the Republican Party. Long intertwined by mutual self-interest on deregulation and lower taxes, the business lobby and Republicans are diverging not only over the fiscal crisis, but on other major issues like immigration reform, which was favored by business groups and party leaders but stymied in the House by many of the same lawmakers now leading the debt fight.
一些人警告说，债务违约可能令商界和共和党之间的关系发生变化。长期以来，企业游说组织和共和党人一直因为在削弱监管和降低税率中的共同利益而团结在一起，现在，他们的分歧越来越多，这些分歧不仅与财政危机有关，还涉及其他重大问题，比如移民改革。移民改革得到了企业组织和党派领袖的支持，但是在众议院受到阻挠，这其中许多反对的议员正主导着目前的债务大战。
“There clearly are people in the Republican Party at the moment for whom the business community and the interests of the business community — the jobs and members they represent — don’t seem to be their top priority,” said Dan Danner, the head of the National Federation of Independent Businesses, which spearheaded opposition to President Obama’s health care law among small businesses. “They don’t really care what the N.F.I.B. thinks, and don’t care what the Chamber thinks, and probably don’t care what the Business Roundtable thinks.”
“显然，目前对于共和党的一些人来说，商业界和商业界的利益——他们所代表的工作机会和成员——并不那么重要，”美国独立企业联盟(National Federation of Independent Businesses)的负责人丹·丹纳(Dan Danner)说。“他们并不真的在乎美国独立企业联盟的想法，不在乎商会的想法，也许也不在乎商业圆桌会议(Business Roundtable)的想法。美国独立企业联盟引领了小企业界对奥巴马总统医改法案的反对。
The lawmakers seem to agree. Representative Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas and a Tea Party caucus member, said in an interview on Wednesday that if American corporations wanted to send their money elsewhere, that was their choice.
议员们似乎也承认了这一点。德克萨斯州共和党众议员、茶党党团会议成员兰迪·诺伊格鲍尔(Randy Neugebauer)周三在接受采访时说，如果美国的企业想要把钱用在别处，那是他们的自由。
“We have got to quit worrying about the next election, and start worrying about the country,” said Mr. Neugebauer, who sits on the House Financial Services Committee and is a recipient of significant donations from Wall Street.
诺伊格鲍尔说，“我们不应该再为下次大选担忧了，我们应该担心的是我们的国家。”诺伊格鲍尔是美国众议院金融服务委员会(House Financial Services Committee)成员，也是华尔街大量捐款的受益人。
Few of the most conservative House lawmakers draw substantial support from business political action committees, and business lobbyists acknowledged that the mere suggestion they were considering backing primary challenges next year could enhance grass-roots support for the very lawmakers they want to defeat. But the dysfunction in Washington has now turned so extreme, they said, that they had few other options.
在最保守的众议员中，几乎没有谁从各个企业的政治行动委员会那里获得了太多支持。企业游说者承认，单是表示他们在考虑明年支持初选挑战，就可能会强化民众对他们想要打击的议员的支持。他们说，但是华盛顿的混乱局面已经如此严重，他们没什么太多选择。
“What we want is a conservative business person, but someone who in many respects will be more realistic, in our opinion,” said Bruce Josten, the top lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the single biggest lobbying organization in Washington.
美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)最主要游说者布鲁斯·乔斯滕(Bruce Josten)说，“我们想要的是一个保守的懂商业的人，但在许多方面要更加现实，我们是这么看的。”美国商会是华盛顿最大的游说组织。
Despite their diminished leverage, business leaders said they would step up their appeals for an agreement.
尽管影响力减弱，企业领袖说，但他们愿意加强对达成共识的呼吁。
Most of the officials said they agree in principle with conservative lawmakers about the need to cut federal spending or roll back parts of Obamacare, but said using the threat of shutdown — or worse, of a debt default — to extract those concessions was both ineffective and dangerous.
大多数企业领袖表示，他们原则上同意保守派议员的观点，即有必要削减联邦支出或奥巴马医改的部分内容，但是他们说，用关门的威胁——或者更严重的债务违约的威胁——来获取这些让步即是徒劳的，也是危险的。
Mr. Josten said he had been on Capitol Hill every day this week counseling compromise.
乔斯滕说，他这周每天都在国会为达成妥协提供建议。
“The name calling, blame gaming — using slurs like jihadist, terrorist, cowards, that kind of language — it does not get you to a deal,” Mr. Josten said of the advice he is giving to Democrats and Republicans. “The problem is everybody is in the same corner here and everybody has to try to save some face.”
乔斯滕提到他给民主党和共和党人的建议时说，“相互指责的游戏——使用圣战主义者、恐怖主义者、懦夫这类侮辱性措辞——无助于达成协议。问题在于，人人都面临同样的困境，都得挽回些颜面。”
To break through to lawmakers, some national trade groups are deploying local business owners, who they believe may have more clout with conservatives than big-name chief executive officers. The National Retail Federation has already begun such efforts in states like Oklahoma and Kentucky, where the Republican Party dominates.
为了说服议员，一些全国性行业组织正在地方的企业所有者中调兵遣将，他们相信，与大牌企业高管相比，地方企业所有者对保守派更有影响力。美国零售联合会已经开始在一些共和党占主导地位的州采取这样的行动，比如俄克拉荷马州和肯塔基州。
A spokeswoman for the National Association of Manufacturers, Erin Streeter, said the group had decided to sponsor a fund-raising event for Representative Mike Simpson, Republican of Idaho, who is among the 20 House Republicans who have said they will support a budget bill — or at least a temporary measure to reopen the government — without removing funds from the health care program. Mr. Simpson is facing a primary challenge from a more conservative, Tea Party-backed Republican.
美国全国制造商协会(National Association of Manufacturers)的发言人埃琳·斯特里特(Erin Streeter)说，该组织决定赞助爱达荷州共和党众议员迈克·辛普森(Mike Simpson)的一项筹款活动。辛普森是表示支持预算法案——或者至少是一个让政府重新开门的权宜之计——同时无需削减医改计划资金的20名共和党众议员之一。辛普森正在面临来自一个更加保守的、茶党支持的共和党人的初选挑战。
“We need to be more aggressive,” Ms. Streeter said.
斯特里尔说，“我们需要更强硬一点”。
Michael J. Driscoll, a former managing director of Bear, Stearns & Co. and lifelong Republican from New York, said he would not be surprised if Wall Street executives began to shift of the giving away from some House lawmakers.
贝尔斯登(Bear Stearns & Co.)的前董事总经理迈克尔·J·德里斯科尔(Michael J. Driscoll)来自纽约州，一辈子支持共和党，他表示，如果华尔街的高管们开始不再捐款给某些众议员，他不会感到奇怪。
“One thing about Wall Street, it is very aware of who is working in their best interest,” he said.
他说，“华尔街的一个特点是，他们非常清楚谁在为他们争取最大的利益。”