Rising inequality has obvious economic costs: stagnant wages despite rising productivity, rising debt that makes us more vulnerable to financial crisis. It also has big social and human costs. There is, for example, strong evidence that high inequality leads to worse health and higher mortality.
日益严重的不平等存在明显的经济代价：尽管生产率在提高，工资水平却停滞不前，而不断增加的债务让我们更难抵御金融危机的冲击。此外它还有很高的社会成本和民生代价。比如，强有力的证据表明，严重的不平等导致了更严重的健康问题和更高的死亡率。
But there’s more. Extreme inequality, it turns out, creates a class of people who are alarmingly detached from reality — and simultaneously gives these people great power.
但是不止如此。事实证明，极端不平等不仅造就了一个跟现实之间存在巨大脱节的阶级，同时还赋予了这些人巨大的权力。
The example many are buzzing about right now is the billionaire investor Tom Perkins, a founding member of the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. In a letter to the editor of The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Perkins lamented public criticism of the “one percent” — and compared such criticism to Nazi attacks on the Jews, suggesting that we are on the road to another Kristallnacht.
眼下的一个例子引起了很多人的议论，他就是身家亿万的投资人汤姆·珀金斯(Tom Perkins)，风险投资公司KPCB凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)的创始成员之一。在写给《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)编辑的一封信中，帕金斯哀叹“百分之一”的人所遭受的公众批判——并把这些批判跟纳粹对犹太人的攻击相提并论，暗示我们正走在通往又一个“水晶之夜”(Kristallnacht)的路上。
You may say that this is just one crazy guy and wonder why The Journal would publish such a thing. But Mr. Perkins isn’t that much of an outlier. He isn’t even the first finance titan to compare advocates of progressive taxation to Nazis. Back in 2010 Stephen Schwarzman, the chairman and chief executive of the Blackstone Group, declared that proposals to eliminate tax loopholes for hedge fund and private-equity managers were “like when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.”
你可能会说，只有他才这么疯吧，不知道为什么《华尔街日报》会刊登这样的东西。但帕金斯并不是唯一的特例。他甚至不是第一个把累进税支持者比喻为纳粹的金融巨头。早在2010年，黑石集团(Blackstone Group)董事长兼首席执行官斯蒂芬·施瓦茨曼(Stephen Schwarzman)就声称，提议堵住对冲和私募基金经理的税收漏洞，就如同“希特勒1939年入侵波兰”。
And there are a number of other plutocrats who manage to keep Hitler out of their remarks but who nonetheless hold, and loudly express, political and economic views that combine paranoia and megalomania in equal measure.
还有一些富豪忍住了不谈希特勒，但仍然抱有同样偏执多疑和狂妄自大的政治和经济观点，并且大言不惭地宣扬它们。
I know that sounds strong. But look at all the speeches and opinion pieces by Wall Streeters accusing President Obama — who has never done anything more than say the obvious, that some bankers behaved badly — of demonizing and persecuting the rich. And look at how many of those making these accusations also made the ludicrously self-centered claim that their hurt feelings (as opposed to things like household debt and premature fiscal austerity) were the main thing holding the economy back.
我知道这么说不太温和。但看看华尔街指责奥巴马总统妖魔化和迫害富人的各种发言和文章吧。奥巴马只不过说了一些明摆着的事实，即有些银行家举止不当。再看看这些指责他的人中，有多少提出过自我中心得离谱的说法，说他们受到的感情伤害才是阻碍经济发展的主要原因，而不是家庭债务和过早实施财政紧缩之类的事情。
Now, just to be clear, the very rich, and those on Wall Street in particular, are in fact doing worse under Mr. Obama than they would have if Mitt Romney had won in 2012. Between the partial rollback of the Bush tax cuts and the tax hike that partly pays for health reform, tax rates on the 1 percent have gone more or less back to pre-Reagan levels. Also, financial reformers have won some surprising victories over the past year, and this is bad news for wheeler-dealers whose wealth comes largely from exploiting weak regulation. So you can make the case that the 1 percent have lost some important policy battles.
那么，要说清楚的一点是，如果米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)在2012年获胜，极富阶层，尤其是华尔街那些人，实际上会比现在在奥巴马任内的获利多。随着布什减税政策的部分取消，以及为支付医疗改革而进行的大幅加税，1%阶层的税率已或多或少回到了前里根时代的水平。同时，在过去一年里，金融改革派也取得了一些令人大为意外的胜利。对那些基本上靠监管薄弱聚敛财富的投机钻营者而言，这可是个坏消息。因此，可以证明，那1%的人输掉了一些重要的政策之战。
But every group finds itself facing criticism, and ends up on the losing side of policy disputes, somewhere along the way; that’s democracy. The question is what happens next. Normal people take it in stride; even if they’re angry and bitter over political setbacks, they don’t cry persecution, compare their critics to Nazis and insist that the world revolves around their hurt feelings. But the rich are different from you and me.
但任何群体都会有面对批判的时候，在政策冲突过程中发现自己站在了失败的一方；这就是民主。问题是，接下来会怎样。普通人会从容应对。即使政治上的挫折让他们愤怒、苦闷，他们也不会大呼自己受到了迫害，把批评他们的人比作纳粹，坚持认为世界是围绕他们的情感伤害转的。但富人不同于你我。
And yes, that’s partly because they have more money, and the power that goes with it. They can and all too often do surround themselves with courtiers who tell them what they want to hear and never, ever, tell them they’re being foolish. They’re accustomed to being treated with deference, not just by the people they hire but by politicians who want their campaign contributions. And so they are shocked to discover that money can’t buy everything, can’t insulate them from all adversity.
的确，这部分是因为他们有更多财富，随之也就有了更多权力。他们有吸引一群阿谀奉承的人围在自己身边的能力，很多时候的确就是这样。这些人会说他们想听的话，但从不告诉他们，他们有多愚蠢。他们习惯了被尊重，不仅是来自自己雇佣的员工的尊重，还有那些想让他们捐助自己竞选的政客的尊重。因此，当发现钱无法买到一切，无法让自己远离逆境时，他们很是震惊。
I also suspect that today’s Masters of the Universe are insecure about the nature of their success. We’re not talking captains of industry here, men who make stuff. We are, instead, talking about wheeler-dealers, men who push money around and get rich by skimming some off the top as it sloshes by. They may boast that they are job creators, the people who make the economy work, but are they really adding value? Many of us doubt it — and so, I suspect, do some of the wealthy themselves, a form of self-doubt that causes them to lash out even more furiously at their critics.
我还怀疑，如今的金融界巨头对自己的成功的本质缺乏自信。我们在这里说的不是制造产品的行业大佬。相反，我们说的是那些投机钻营者，他们把钱倒来倒去，靠着每次倒手时从中揩一点油水致富。他们或许会吹嘘说自己创造了就业，让经济运转了起来，但他们真的在创造价值吗？我们很多人对此表示怀疑——因此，我怀疑，一些富人自己也怀疑，正是他们自己的那种自我怀疑导致他们更猛烈的抨击批评者。
Anyway, we’ve been here before. It’s impossible to read screeds like those of Mr. Perkins or Mr. Schwarzman without thinking of F.D.R.’s famous 1936 Madison Square Garden speech, in which he spoke of the hatred he faced from the forces of “organized money,” and declared, “I welcome their hatred.”
我们以前就经历过这种情况。当我们读到类似于帕金斯或施瓦茨曼的不满言论时，很容易想起FDR（富兰克林·罗斯福）1936年在麦迪逊广场花园的演讲，他当时提到了“有组织的财阀”势力的仇恨，并声称，“我欢迎他们的仇恨。”
President Obama has not, unfortunately, done nearly as much as F.D.R. to earn the hatred of the undeserving rich. But he has done more than many progressives give him credit for — and like F.D.R., both he and progressives in general should welcome that hatred, because it’s a sign that they’re doing something right.
不过，不幸的是，与FDR相比，奥巴马总统没做那么多事，无法得到那些不知天高地厚的富人的仇恨。但除了进步派给予肯定的工作，奥巴马也做了其他事——而且就像FDR一样，他和进步派总体说来确实应该欢迎那种仇恨，因为这意味着他们做了正确的事。