“The United States stock market, the most iconic market in global capitalism, is rigged.”
“美国股市是全球最具标志性的资本主义市场，但它弊端丛生。”
That’s what Michael Lewis told Steve Kroft on the CBS show “60 Minutes” on Sunday evening. It was a clever, if hyperbolic, way for Mr. Lewis to describe the topic of his important new book, “Flash Boys,” a make-your-blood-boil read about the abusive way that high-frequency trading works.
这是迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)周日早晨在CBS节目《60分钟》(60 Minutes)上对史蒂夫·克罗夫特(Steve Kroft)说的话。刘易斯在描述自己新出版的重磅作品《快闪小子》(Flash Boys)时做出的上述形容，或许有些夸张，但的确相当明智。这本书描写的是高频交易背后的恶劣运行机制，读来让人热血沸腾。
Mr. Lewis’s well-crafted narrative highlights a perverse system on Wall Street that has allowed certain professional investors to pay hundreds of millions of dollars a year to locate their computer servers close to stock exchanges so they can make trades milliseconds ahead of everyone else.
刘易斯以独具匠心的叙述，讲述了华尔街上一个扭曲的系统，其中一些专业的投资者可以每年花费数亿美元，把自己的电脑服务器放在离交易所很近的位置，这样就可以在交易时比其他所有人快几毫秒。
In some cases, the superfast investors are able to glean crucial information from the stream of trading data flowing into their systems that allows them to see what stocks other investors are about to buy before they are able to complete their orders.
在一些情况下，动作极快的投资者可以从流入其系统的交易数据流中搜集关键的信息，并利用这些信息了解其他投资者将要购买哪些股票，但还没能完成下单。
There is only one problem with Mr. Lewis’s tale: He reserves blame for the wrong villains. He points mostly to the hedge funds and investment banks engaged in high-frequency trading.
刘易斯的书中只有一个问题：他批评的对象并不是最大的坏蛋。书中主要谴责了从事高频交易的对冲基金和投资银行。
But Mr. Lewis seemingly glosses over the real black hats: the big stock exchanges, which are enabling — and profiting handsomely from — the extra-fast access they are providing to certain investors.
然而刘易斯似乎对真正的罪魁祸首，大型证券交易所一笔带过。正是这些交易所向特定的投资者提供了超快速访问其系统的权限，并从中获利颇丰。
While the big Wall Street banks may have invented high-speed trading, it has gained widespread use because it has been encouraged by stock markets like the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and Bats, an electronic exchange that was a pioneer in this area. These exchanges don’t just passively allow certain investors to connect to their systems. They have created systems and pricing tiers specifically for high-speed trading. They are charging higher rates for faster speeds and more data for select clients. The more you pay, the faster you trade.
高频交易或许是华尔街的银行发明的，但它之所以能获得广泛使用，是因为纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)、纳斯达克(Nasdaq)和Bats交易所都鼓励这种做法。Bats是一家电子化交易平台，也是这个领域的先驱。这些交易所并不只是被动地允许特定的投资者接入其系统，它们还专门为高速交易建立了系统和分级定价方案。它们会向特定的客户提供更快的速度和更多的数据，同时收取更高的费用。付的钱越多，交易就越快。
That is the real problem: The exchanges have a financial incentive to create an uneven playing field.
这才是真正的问题：交易所在建立一个不公平的竞技场方面存在牟利动机。
This is not to suggest that high-frequency hedge funds and banks aren’t complicit; they are. And some may be doing more than simply taking advantage of the rules. Eric T. Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general, recently began an investigation into high-frequency trading. “There are some things here that may be illegal,” he told Bloomberg News. “There are some things that may now be legal that should be illegal or that the markets have to be changed.”
这并不是说从事高频交易的对冲基金和银行不是共谋，它们的确是。而且一些机构做的可能不仅仅是利用规则。纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施奈德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)最近开始调查高频交易。“这里的一些举动可能是违法的，”他对彭博新闻(Bloomberg News)表示。“还有一些举动可能现在合法，但法律应该禁止，或者市场应该做出转变。”
If — and hopefully when — the rules get changed, the new requirements will probably have to be carried out by the stock exchanges, most likely not the investors. And those new rules could force the exchanges to shut down or modify the special lane of traffic they have created for high-frequency traders. Just as important, the exchanges will probably have to find a way to build speed bumps into the system so that all investors are able to trade at the same time, no matter what superfast fiber-optic cable they build to gain an advantage. That would be much like the system developed to slow down trading by the protagonist of Mr. Lewis’s story, Brad Katsuyama, who has built an alternative electronic exchange called IEX.
如果规则的确能改变（希望如此），届时新的规定可能必须要由交易所来执行，应该不会让投资者执行。而那些新的规定可能会强迫交易所关闭或修改专门为高频交易建立的数据通道。同样重要的是，交易所可能也必须想方设法在系统中限制交易速度，从而使所有的投资者都能以同样的时间进行交易，无论它们为了占得先机，铺设了什么样的超高速光纤。这样就很像刘易斯书中的主人公布拉德·胜山(Brad Katsuyama)为了降低交易速度而开发的系统。胜山建造了一个名为IEX的替代性电子交易平台。
Of course, while Mr. Lewis lays out a black-and-white case against high-speed trading, the right regulation is complicated.
当然了，就算刘易斯提出了反对高速交易的非黑即白的论点，合理的监管制度仍然是复杂的。
On “60 Minutes” Mr. Lewis made it seem simple: “The insiders are able to move faster than you. They’re able to see your order and play it against other orders in ways that you don’t understand. They’re able to front run your order.”
在《60分钟》里，刘易斯让它看起来很简单：“了解内幕的人有能力比你更快地行动。他们可以看到你的下单，以你不了解的方法将它和别人的订单玩弄于鼓掌之中，让他们得以在交易中领先。”
The problem that regulators are going to have to confront in writing new rules is that the high-frequency trading problem isn’t a simple David versus Goliath story. It isn’t the neophyte retail investor on E-Trade versus the sophisticated high-frequency trader.
在撰写新制度的时候，监管者所要面对的棘手之处在于高频交易不是一个单纯的大卫对巨人般以小胜大的故事，也并非电子商务的散户投资新手对阵老练的高频交易员这么简单。
Most of the big money that high-frequency traders make is by competing against other big institutions. Mr. Lewis argues that high-frequency traders, with their unfair advantages, are putting the little guy’s pension fund in jeopardy. That may be true, but only partly: Where do you think high-frequency trading firms are getting the money to invest? Pension funds. So it gets complicated very quickly.
高频交易公司巨额财富中的一大部分都是通过和其他大型机构竞争的方式获取的。刘易斯认为，高频交易者凭借其所占有的不平等优势，将弱者的养老基金置于危险境地。这也许是事实，但也只是事实的一部分：你认为高频交易公司用以投资的资金从何而来？养老金。所以很快事情又变复杂了。
Stock exchanges that cater to high-frequency traders often defend the practice by saying that such trading adds liquidity to the market and lowers the prices that all investors pay. To some degree, this argument is accurate. The amount that investors pay has come down remarkably over the last several decades. Defenders say that the market has always included some form of middleman extracting a piece of every order. The high-frequency traders just do this more efficiently.
迎合高频交易公司的证券交易所经常为此种行为辩白，称这类交易为市场注入了流动性，所有投资人需要支付的价格也降低了。从某种程度上来说，这一说法是准确的。在过去的几十年中，投资者需要支付的成本的确大幅下降。支持高频交易的人表示，在市场中总会有中间人从各个订单中汲取一部分差价，高频交易者只不过更有效率。
Oddly enough, Goldman Sachs, one of the earliest high-frequency traders, has come out in favor of new rules to make the system fairer and more stable. Still, if the firm were serious about its position, it should consider dropping some of its clients or pressuring them to change their ways: Goldman is an underwriter of a coming initial public offering for Virtu Financial, which specializes in high-frequency trading.
说来也怪，高盛(Goldman Sachs)作为最早的高频交易者之一，已经出面支持让系统更加公平和稳定的新规则。然而，如果高盛真的想表明其立场，它应该放弃一些客户，或者向他们施压令其改变行事方法：高盛是Virtu Financial公司即将举行的首次公开募股(IPO)的承销商，而该公司专门从事高频交易。
Then there is the question of the responsibility of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Until recently, the agency has not just looked the other way about these high-speed arrangements but has actively encouraged them. In recent months, the S.E.C. has finally begun to consider whether the rules should be changed.
外界对于美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）的职责也存在疑问。直到最近，该机构不但对这类高频交易行为视而不见，甚至曾给予过积极鼓励。最近几个月，SEC终于开始考虑规则是否应该有所改变。
Mr. Lewis is putting a spotlight on an issue that, if corrected, will hopefully help the markets become a bit more fair. (There remain a host of other problems that still make it “rigged.”) But it is important that the regulators address the real culprits, not just the easy targets.
刘易斯将此事件置于聚光灯下，如果成功修正的话，会有希望将市场变得更公平一点。（这个市场里还存在很多其他问题，所以仍然是“弊端丛生”。）但很重要的一点是，监管者需要着手处理罪魁祸首，而不是那些容易的目标。