Federal prosecutors are nearing criminal charges against some of the world’s biggest banks, according to lawyers briefed on the matter, a development that could produce the first guilty plea from a major bank in more than two decades.
据了解情况的律师透露，联邦检察官即将对全球规模最大的一些银行提出刑事指控，这一进展可能导致20多年以来，一家主要银行首次认罪的情况。
In doing so, prosecutors are confronting the popular belief that Wall Street institutions have grown so important to the economy that they cannot be charged. A lack of criminal prosecutions of banks and their leaders fueled a public outcry over the perception that giant banks are “too big to jail.”
在提出指控时，检察官面临着一种普遍的看法，那就是华尔街的机构对美国经济举足轻重，以至于当局都无法对它们提出指控。对银行及其领导人的刑事指控的缺失，激起了公众对“刑不上巨型银行”的理念的强烈不满。
Addressing those concerns, prosecutors in Washington and New York have met with regulators about how to criminally punish banks without putting them out of business and damaging the economy, interviews with lawyers and records reviewed by The New York Times show.
《纽约时报》进行的采访和核查的记录显示，为了回应这些关切，华盛顿和纽约的检察官会见了监管机构，讨论了如何避免让涉事银行倒闭和破坏经济，同时又能对银行做出刑事处罚的问题。
The new strategy underpins the decision to seek guilty pleas in two of the most advanced investigations: one into Credit Suisse for offering tax shelters to Americans, and the other against France’s largest bank, BNP Paribas, over doing business with countries like Sudan that the United States has blacklisted. The approach applies to American banks, though those investigations are at an earlier stage.
相关新策略为两起进度最大的调查寻求认罪的决定提供了基础，其中的一起调查的是瑞信(Credit Suisse)为美国人提供避税的案子，另一起调查的是法国最大的银行法国巴黎银行（BNP Paribas，简称BNP)和苏丹等被美国列入黑名单的国家之间的业务往来案。这个策略也适用于美国银行，不过那些相关调查还处于初期阶段。
In the talks with BNP, which has a huge investment bank in New York, prosecutors in Manhattan and Washington have outlined plans to extract a criminal guilty plea from the bank’s parent company, according to the lawyers, who were not authorized to speak publicly. If BNP is unable to negotiate a lesser punishment — the bank has enlisted the support of high-ranking French officials to pressure prosecutors — the case could counter congressional criticism that arose after the British bank HSBC escaped similar charges two years ago. 
据未获得公开发言授权的前述律师透露，BNP在纽约经营了一家大型投资银行，在和BNP的谈判中，曼哈顿和华盛顿的检察官概述了他们打算设法让该投行的母公司认罪的计划。如果BNP无法通过谈判减轻刑事处罚，本案可成为检方反击美国国会指责的案例。相关指责的起因是两年以前，英国汇丰银行(HSBC)逃脱了类似的指控。BNP已让法国高官伸出援手，给美方检察官施压。
Such criminal cases hinge on the cooperation of regulators, some who warned that charging HSBC could have prompted the revocation of the bank’s charter, the corporate equivalent of the death penalty. Federal guidelines require prosecutors to weigh the broader economic consequences of charging corporations.
此类刑事案取决于监管机构的合作，有些监管机构警告称，对汇丰银行的指控可能会引发吊销银行特许经营执照的后果，这等同于对银行判下死刑。联邦指导方针要求检察官对指控企业可能引发的更广泛的经济后果做出权衡。
With the investigation into BNP, the lawyers briefed on the matter said, prosecutors met in April with the bank’s American regulators: the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Benjamin M. Lawsky, New York’s top financial regulator. The prosecutors who attended the meeting and are leading the investigation — Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan; David O’Neil, the head of the Justice Department’s criminal division in Washington; and Cyrus Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney — left largely reassured.
了解情况的律师说，随着检方对BNP展开调查，检察官们在今年4月和该银行的美国监管方，即纽约联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)和纽约级别最高的金融监管者本杰明·M·劳斯基(Benjamin M. Lawsky)举行了会谈。与会并主导调查的检察官在离开会场时基本都放下了心，他们是曼哈顿区联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)；来自华盛顿的美国司法部刑事案件署负责人戴维·奥尼尔(David O’Neil)；以及曼哈顿地区检察官小塞勒斯·万斯(Cyrus Vance Jr.)。
During the meeting at the New York Fed’s headquarters in Lower Manhattan, the lawyers said, Mr. Lawsky said he planned to impose steep penalties against BNP and its employees but would not revoke the bank’s license. The prosecutors secured similar assurances from the New York Fed, the lawyers said, though the Fed’s board in Washington must still approve the decision about BNP, which has not been accused of any wrongdoing.
会议是在位于曼哈顿下城的纽约联储总部召开的，律师们透露，劳斯基在会上说，他打算严厉处罚BNP及其雇员，不过他不会吊销该行的执照。律师们说，检察官们从纽约联储那里得到了类似的保证，不过对BNP的决定仍需得到在华盛顿的美联储委员会的批准。目前，BNP还未受到任何违法指控。
The discussions with regulators, recounted in interviews with the lawyers and in records obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, offer a lens into the political and legal minefields that prosecutors navigate when investigating big banks. The interviews also demonstrate that defense lawyers continue to push prosecutors not to act without assurances that regulators will keep a bank in business.
对律师的采访和《纽约时报》通过《自由信息法》(Freedom of Information Act)获取的记录描述了检察官和监管者之间的讨论，这些信息让外界得以一窥检察官调查大型银行时经历的重重政治和法律险阻。对律师的采访还显示，辩护律师在继续劝说检察官，在没有获得监管机构不会让银行关门的保证时，不要采取行动。
In a recent speech to Wall Street lawyers, Mr. Bharara said this dynamic created a “gaping liability loophole that blameworthy companies are only too willing to exploit.”
在最近对华尔街律师发表的一次演讲中，巴拉拉表示，这些因素带来了“一个越裂越大的漏洞，负有责任的公司只会甘之如殆地去利用它。”
His comments echoed worries that Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. raised at a congressional hearing last year, when he said, “I am concerned that the size of some of these institutions becomes so large that it does become difficult for us to prosecute them” amid regulatory concerns that charges could imperil the economy.
他的评论和美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)去年在国会听证会上表达的忧虑遥相呼应。当时，霍尔德说，“我担心有些机构的规模变得太大了，以至于我们确实难以起诉它们。”当时存在一种普遍的担忧，即指控这些机构可能会危及美国经济。
Mr. Holder’s criminal division — which a week after announcing the HSBC case hosted a meeting with regulators to discuss “corporate resolutions,” according to records — has held discussions with the New York Fed about securing a guilty plea in the Credit Suisse tax shelter case. While the criminal division might ultimately extract a guilty plea from Credit Suisse’s main banking affiliate in Zurich, the lawyers briefed on the matter said, they have not ruled out charges against the bank’s parent company.
霍尔德手下的刑事案件署已经与纽约联储展开了讨论，议题是在瑞信避税案中，取得瑞信的认罪表态。记录显示，刑事案件署在公布汇丰案一周之后，曾与监管机构举行会议，讨论“公司解决方案”。了解情况的律师透露，刑事案件署可能会设法让瑞信旗下从事银行业务、位于苏黎世的主要子公司承认有罪，但刑案署并未排除对该行的母公司提出指控的可能性。
BNP and Credit Suisse declined to comment.
BNP和瑞信拒绝置评。
Mr. Bharara, the lawyers said, has opened his own criminal investigations into a fraud at Citigroup’s Mexican affiliate and other American banks. In the recent speech, Mr. Bharara warned, “You can expect that before too long a significant financial institution will be charged with a felony or be made to plead guilty to a felony, where the conduct warrants it.”
上述律师透露，巴拉拉对涉及花旗集团(Citigroup)墨西哥分行及美国其他银行的一宗舞弊案单独展开了刑事调查。在最近的演讲中，巴拉拉警告说，“公众将会看到，不久之后，就会有一家重要的金融机构受到重罪指控，或者被迫承认犯有重罪——那些行为确实构成这样的罪行。”
BNP has privately said that the consequences of a guilty plea could be dire. In a final bid for leniency, the lawyers briefed on the matter said, the bank is expected to meet with prosecutors next week in the Justice Department’s headquarters in Washington. BNP, which has earmarked $1.1 billion to pay penalties in the case but might pay more, would be the biggest financial institution to plead guilty since Drexel Burnham Lambert in 1989.
BNP私下表示，认罪可能会产生极其严重的后果。了解情况的律师透露，为了最后一次争取得到宽大处理，该行打算下周在司法部位于华盛顿的总部与检察官举行会谈。BNP已经准备了11亿美元（约合69亿元人民币）的专款用于支付本案的罚金，不过实际缴纳的可能比这还多。它将是1989年德崇证券公司(Drexel Burnham Lambert)主动认罪之后，主动认罪的规模最大的金融机构。
The investigation into BNP has centered on whether the bank processed transactions for countries — including Sudan and Iran — that the United States government has placed under sanctions. The bank, which conducted its own internal investigation that “identified a significant volume of transactions that could be considered impermissible” between 2002 and 2009, may have improperly routed some money through its New York branches. 
对BNP开展的调查的核心在于，该行是否为苏丹和伊朗等被美国政府列为制裁对象的国家处理过交易。BNP可能通过其在纽约的分行，不当地处理过一些资金。BNP进行的内部调查称，在2002年到2009年间，“查找出了大量可被视为不允许进行的交易。”
To be meaningful, a guilty plea would require some consequences. Mr. Lawsky told prosecutors that he would consider temporarily suspending the bank’s ability to transfer money through New York branches on behalf of foreign clients, a move that could undercut the bank’s revenue.
为了让认罪具有意义，认罪方要承受一定的后果。劳斯基对检查官说，他会考虑暂停BNP代表海外客户通过其纽约分行转账的职能，而此举可能会降低该行的收益。