NEW YORK — Mauricio Dias was being courted by Wall Street.
纽约——毛里西奥·迪亚斯(Mauricio Dias)曾被华尔街看中。
After losing his job at the investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette when it was sold to Credit Suisse, he received a phone call from the office of Hamilton E. James, the executive who had orchestrated the sale, Mr. Dias said. Mr. James was starting a new role as the No. 2 at the Blackstone Group, a big investment firm, and wanted Mr. Dias to join him.
迪亚斯说，在投资银行帝杰(Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette)被出售给瑞信(Credit Suisse)之后，他失去了在帝杰的工作，此后，他接到了汉密尔顿·E·詹姆斯(Hamilton E. James)办公室打来的电话。詹姆斯是策划了上述交易的高管，当时刚成为大型投资公司黑石集团(Blackstone Group)的二把手，他想要拉迪亚斯入伙。
Mr. Dias, now a 10-year stalwart at Blackstone, is no banker with a briefcase, however. He carries a shoeshine box.
如今，迪亚斯已经在黑石工作10年了，然而，他并不是拿着公文包的银行家。他拿的是擦鞋箱。
Inside New York’s investment houses, a vestige of old Wall Street lives on. Gone are the days when offices were filled with smoke and secretaries were the only women in sight. But in-house shoeshine service has proved remarkably resilient, surviving the rise of technology and even the turmoil of the 2008 financial crisis, which snuffed out many of Wall Street’s quirks.
在纽约的投资公司里，老华尔街的一个传统仍在延续。办公室里烟雾缭绕、能见到的少数女性都是秘书的那个时代已经一去不复返了。不过，公司内部提供的擦鞋服务却展现出了惊人的生命力，在经历了科技的崛起、甚至2008年金融危机的动荡之后，华尔街的许多古怪习俗已经消失得无影无踪，但这项服务却流传了下来。
Mr. Dias, 52, is at the top of the heap in the shoeshine world. He charges $6 for a shine in Blackstone’s offices, while the Dr. Shine shoeshine parlor in the building’s lobby charges $3. Not counting the tip.
现年52岁的迪亚斯已经是擦鞋领域的头牌。在黑石集团的办公室，他擦一双鞋的收费是6美元（约合36元人民币），而这栋写字楼大堂的“闪亮博士”(Dr. Shine)擦鞋屋的价格是每双3美元。小费另算。
“He’s a V.I.P.,” said Gotardo Cortez, 38, a co-owner of Dr. Shine. A spokesman for Blackstone declined to comment.
“闪亮博士”的共同所有人、现年38岁的戈塔多·科尔特斯(Gotardo Cortez)说，“他可是这个行业的老大。”黑石集团的一名发言人拒绝置评。
Though they are not bank employees, Wall Street’s shoeshine workers are privy to the hidden dramas of trading floors and executive suites. At JPMorgan Chase, for example, a shoeshine worker said that Jamie Dimon, the bank’s powerful chief executive — who favors Ferragamo loafers — typically offers $10 for a shoeshine, “the same thing the guys on the trading floor pay.”
尽管不是银行员工，华尔街的擦鞋者们却十分了解交易大厅和高管办公室内一些不为外人所知的八卦。例如，一位擦鞋工人说，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)威风十足的首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)——他喜欢穿菲拉格慕(Ferragamo)的乐福鞋（平底便鞋——编注）——一般擦一次鞋给10美元，“和交易大厅那些家伙给的一样”。
But the modern shoeshine business has changed since the old days, reflecting the evolution of Wall Street firms from private partnerships to large, public corporations. Senior traders from Bear Stearns recall the days when they could put their feet up on a shoeshine box brought to their desks and banter with their colleagues as the deed was done. But that changed after JPMorgan took over the firm in 2008.
但是现代擦鞋业已经不同往日，这也反应了华尔街公司从私人合伙企业到大型上市公司的演化。贝尔斯登(Bear Stearns)的高级交易员回忆往日，说他们以前可以把脚放到办公桌前的擦鞋箱上，一边享受擦鞋的服务，一边跟同事谈笑风生。但在摩根大通2008年收购了这家公司之后，这改变了。
At JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, teams of workers now collect shoes and take them elsewhere to be shined, leaving traders to work in stocking feet. Though many bank employees appreciate the efficiency of that updated method — harried traders sometimes claim they do not even have time to use the restroom — some longtime employees see it as an affront.
在摩根大通、高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)，一些擦鞋工人把要擦的鞋子收上来，拿到别处去擦，让交易员们穿着袜子工作。尽管许多银行工作人员称赞这种新方法的效率——忙碌的交易员们有时说自己连上厕所的时间都没有——一些老员工则认为这样有辱斯文。
“They’ve turned it into a sterile thing,” said James J. Dunne III, the senior managing principal of the investment bank Sandler O’Neill & Partners. “That’s where Wall Street has gotten more like a department store.”
投资银行Sandler O’Neill & Partners的高级执行主管詹姆斯·J·邓恩三世(James J. Dunne III)说，“他们把这变成了一件无趣的事。这就是使得华尔街变得越来越像百货商店的地方。”
The subject of shoeshines is a sentimental one for many Wall Street denizens, but perhaps none more so than Mr. Dunne, for whom a shoeshine was his introduction to the industry in September 1978.
对于许多华尔街人来说，擦鞋是一个牵动情思的话题，但要论对擦鞋的感情，谁也比不上邓恩，1978年9月，是一次擦鞋的经历引他进入了这个行业。
A few months out of college and just days into an investment bank job, Mr. Dunne was sitting at his desk at L. F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin and marveling at the shoeshine worker. He thought, “Who would pay to get a shoeshine?”
大学毕业几个月后，刚来投资银行L. F. Rothschild, Unterberg, Towbin工作的头几天，邓恩坐在办公桌前，擦鞋工人的出现让他感到很意外。他想，“谁会花钱雇人擦鞋呢？”
He soon found out. Mark H. Rosen, his immediate boss, told Mr. Dunne to “chill out a little bit,” Mr. Dunne said. Johnny B., the shoeshine worker, proceeded to work his magic on Mr. Dunne — courtesy of Mr. Rosen.
他很快找到了答案。邓恩说，他的顶头上司马克·H·罗森(Mark H. Rosen)告诉邓恩“放松一下”。然后，擦鞋匠约翰尼·B(Johnny B)就开始对邓恩施展他的魔法——罗森买单。
“It was just a wonderful, warm welcoming. It was about more than just get-that-spreadsheet-done,” Mr. Dunne, now 56, said. “There was a very human aspect to it.”
现年56岁的邓恩说，“那是一个很棒的、温暖人心的欢迎仪式。比起说‘把这张表格填好’，他用心多做了这么一件事。这么做有它非常有人情味的一面。”
Traditionally, the relationships between shoeshine workers and their firms have been supported by custom — and amenable security guards — rather than official edict. But one of the firms to formalize the arrangement was Goldman Sachs.
传统上讲，一直以来维系着擦鞋工人和公司关系的是习俗的力量——以及好说话的保安——而不是正式的规定。但是有些公司把这个做法制度化了，其中就包括高盛。
In the mid-1990s, when Jon S. Corzine was the chief executive of Goldman, employees on the fixed-income floor asked him to allow shoeshine workers to come to the office on a regular basis, a person familiar with the matter said.
一名知情人士说，上世纪90年代中期，固定收入交易厅的员工请求时任高盛首席执行官的乔恩·S·科尔津(Jon S. Corzine)，希望允许擦鞋工人定期进入办公室服务。
Mr. Corzine approved the request.
科尔津同意了。
Today, a handful of uniformed contract workers — known internally as “shoeshine technicians” — patrol Goldman’s headquarters at 200 West Street, with a daily routine that reflects a corporate sense of efficiency. They handle a trading floor in sections, whisking away shoes to be shined and leaving traders to work in socks. One shoeshine parlor in Manhattan, Eddie’s Shoe Repair, aims to capitalize on this shift by offering a classic experience that has become increasingly rare inside banks.
如今，一些着装统一的合同工——在公司内部被称作”擦鞋技师”——每天穿梭在高盛位于西街200号的总部，他们的日常工作安排体现了一种企业效率。他们每个人负责交易大厅不同区块，把要擦的鞋快速收走，让交易员们穿袜子工作。曼哈顿一家擦鞋店埃迪的修鞋屋(Eddie’s Shoe Repair)就瞄准了这一转变带来的商机，提供了一种如今在银行内部越来越罕见的经典服务体验。
Employees of firms like Barclays, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Merrill Lynch trek to the shop in Rockefeller Center for a 15-minute shoeshine and the opportunity to banter with the owner, Hugo Ardaix, who says the banks’ own shoeshine workers skimp on quality.
巴克莱(Barclays)、摩根士丹利和美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)等公司的员工纷纷来到位于洛克菲勒中心的这家店铺，享受15分钟的擦鞋服务，顺便和店主聊聊天。店主叫雨果·阿尔代(Hugo Ardaix)，他说，这些银行内部的擦鞋工人不重视服务的质量。
“It’s like a lot of things on the Street: it’s not as personal as it used to be,” said one senior employee of a big bank who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a company policy against speaking to the news media. “In the past, the trading floors were smaller, the firms were smaller and the service providers were people you saw pretty much every day. You got to know them.”
一家大银行的一名高级雇员说，“这就像华尔街上的许多事物一样：不像过去那样有人情味了。”他不愿透露姓名，因为公司禁止他们对媒体讲话。“过去，交易大厅更小，公司也更小，那些服务人员你差不多每天都能见到。你有机会认识他们。”