WARSAW — Following a devastating typhoon that killed thousands in the Philippines, a routine international climate change conference here turned into an emotional forum, with developing countries demanding compensation from the worst polluting countries for damage they say they are already suffering.
华沙——一场毁灭性的台风导致菲律宾数千人丧生后，在华沙举行的一场例行气候变化国际会议成为了一座情绪激昂的讲坛。发展中国家表示它们已在遭受排放污染的损害，并要求排放最厉害的那些国家予以补偿。
Calling the climate crisis “madness,” the Philippines representative vowed to fast for the duration of the talks. Malia Talakai, a negotiator for the Alliance of Small Island States, a group that includes her tiny South Pacific homeland, Nauru, said that without urgent action to stem rising sea levels, “some of our members won’t be around.”
菲律宾代表称气候危机“疯狂”，而且发誓在谈判期间绝食。小岛国联盟(Alliance of Small Island States)的谈判代表马莉娅·塔拉凯(Malia Talakai)称，如果不采取紧急行动来控制海平面上升，“我们的一些成员国将不复存在。”她的家乡瑙鲁是南太平洋上的弹丸之国，属于联盟成员。
From the time a scientific consensus emerged that human activity was changing the climate, it has been understood that the nations that contributed least to the problem would be hurt the most. Now, even as the possible consequences of climate change have surged — from the typhoons that have raked the Philippines and India this year to the droughts in Africa, to rising sea levels that threaten to submerge entire island nations — no consensus has emerged over how to rectify what many call “climate injustice.”
科学界已达成共识，人类活动正导致气候变化。自那以后，人们认识到，对这一问题贡献最小的那些国家受灾会最严重。事到如今，虽然气候变化的可能后果已涌现出来——今年横扫菲律宾和印度的台风、非洲的干旱，以及具有淹没整个岛国风险的海平面上升——但关于如何矫正许多人口中的“气候非正义”，还没有取得共识。
Growing demands to address the issue have become an emotionally charged flash point at negotiations here at the 19th conference of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which continues this week.
在华沙举行的《联合国气候变化框架公约》(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change)第19次缔约国大会上，要求应对这一问题的呼声越来越高，挑动情绪，一触即发。该会议本周仍继续举行。
At a news briefing here, Farah Kabir, the director in Bangladesh for the anti-poverty organization ActionAid International, described that country as a relatively small piece of land “with a population of 160 million, trying to cope with this extreme weather, trying to cope with the effect of emissions for which we are not responsible.”
在这里举办的媒体吹风会上，扶贫组织国际行动援助(ActionAid International)的孟加拉办事处主管法拉·卡比尔(Farah Kabir)将该国形容为“人口1.6亿”的相对不大的国家，“正努力应对这样的极端天气，努力应对并不是由我们造成的排放所带来的影响。”
With expectations low for progress here on a treaty to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, widely seen as having failed to make a dent in worldwide carbon emissions, some nations were losing patience with decades of endless climate talks, particularly those who see rising oceans as a threat to their existence.
1997年的《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)被普遍认为未能遏制全球范围内的碳排放，而华沙会议是为了取而代之的条约而进行的谈判。由于取得进展的期望很低，一些国家对几十年不断的气候谈判丧失了耐心，尤其是认为海平面上升会威胁自身存在的那些国家。
“We are at these climate conferences essentially moving chess figures across the board without ever being able to bring these negotiations to a conclusion,” Achim Steiner, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, said in a telephone interview.
联合国环境规划署(United Nations Environment Program)的执行主任阿希姆·施泰纳(Achim Steiner)接受电话采访称，“我们在这些气候会议上基本上就是在棋盘上摆弄棋子，从来都没能让谈判有个结果。”
Although the divide between rich and poor nations has bedeviled international climate talks for two decades, the debate over how to address the disproportionate effects has steadily gained momentum. Poor nations here are pressing for a new effort that goes beyond reducing emissions and adapting to a changing climate.
尽管富裕与贫穷国家之间的分歧困扰了气候谈判20年，但有关如何应对其不平衡影响的辩论却日益增多。贫穷国家在华沙要求，采取减少排放与适应气候变化之外的新努力。
While they have no legal means to seek compensation, they have demanded concrete efforts to address the “loss and damage” that the most vulnerable nations will almost certainly face — the result of fragile environments and structures, and limited resources to respond.
虽然缺乏寻求补偿的法律途径，但它们已要求做出切实的努力，来应对最脆弱的国家将几乎肯定会面临的“损失与伤害”——因为这些国家的环境脆弱、设施薄弱，而应急资源也有限。
The sheer magnitude and complexity of the issue make such compensation unlikely. The notion of seeking justice for a global catastrophe that affects almost every country — with enormous implications for economic development — is not only immensely complicated but also politically daunting.
这一问题巨大的量级与复杂性决定了，此类补偿不太可能发生。为全球性灾害寻求正义的观念，不仅本身极为复杂，而且在政治上也困难重重。这些灾害正影响着几乎每一个国家，并可能对经济发展带来严重后果。
It assumes the culpability of the world’s most developed nations, including the United States and those in Europe, and implies a moral responsibility to bear the costs, even as those same nations seek to draft a new treaty over the next two years that would for the first time compel reductions by rapidly emerging nations like China and India. As a group, developing countries will within a decade have accounted for more than half of all historical emissions, making them responsible for a large share of the continuing impact humanity will make, if not the impact already made.
这种观念认为，问题要归咎于美国和欧洲国家等世界上最发达的那些国家，这就意味着它们有承担成本的道德义务，就算同样是这些国家正寻求在未来两年草拟出新条约，首次要求强制中国和印度等迅速崛起的国家减排。作为一个整体，发展中国家将在10年内达到一半以上的历史总排放量，因此，人类未来将继续遭受的影响中的一大部分要归结到它们身上，即使不算它们已经造成的影响。
Assigning liability for specific events — like Typhoon Haiyan, which struck the Philippines with winds of at least 140 miles an hour, making it one of the strongest storms on record — is nearly impossible. It can take scientists years just to determine whether global warming contributed to the severity of a particular weather event, if it can be determined at all.
为台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)这样的特定事件归责几乎不可能。“海燕”以至少140英里（约合225公里）的时速登陆菲律宾，属于有历史记录以来最为强劲的风暴之列。单是判断全球变暖是否对某特定气候事件的严重程度造成了影响，就需要科学家花上几年时间，假使他们真能做出判断的话。
Many negotiators here have pressed to create a new mechanism that effectively accepts the idea that the results of climate change are irreversible and that the countries that are hit hardest first must be compensated.
许多与会谈判者已强烈要求创建一个新机制，能从实际上接受以下理念，即气候变化的后果是不可逆的，最早遭受最严重打击的国家必须获得补偿。
“We’ve reached a stage where we cannot adapt anymore,” said Ronald Jumeau, the United Nations representative for the Seychelles, who is his country’s chief negotiator here. He noted the devastating effects not only of extreme storm events, but also of creeping desertification, salinization and erosion that could result in financial losses and even territorial issues that the modern world has never had to face.
塞舌尔常驻联合国代表罗纳德·朱莫(Ronald Jumeau)说，“我们已经到了一个无法再适应的阶段。”朱莫是塞舌尔在本次会议的首席谈判代表。他指出，灾难性的影响不仅有极端风暴事件，还有日益扩大的沙漠化、盐碱化和水土流失现象；这些影响可能会引发经济损失，乃至现代世界从未正视的领土问题。
“This is new,” he said. “This is like, ‘The Martians are landing!’ What do you do?”
他说，“这是新问题。就像‘火星人在登陆！’你该怎么办？”
How to compensate those nations hardest hit by climate changes remains divisive, even among advocates for such action. Some have argued that wealthy countries need to create a huge pool of money to help poorer countries recover from seemingly inevitable losses of the tangible and intangible, like destroyed traditions.
对于如何补偿受气候变化冲击最严重的国家，各方依然存在分歧，甚至是在主张进行赔偿的群体中也没有形成共识。一些人提出，富裕国家需要建立一个庞大的资金池，来帮助较贫穷的国家弥补似乎不可避免的有形损失和无形损失，如被破坏的传统。
Mr. Jumeau noted that Congress allocated $60 billion just to rebuild from one storm, Hurricane Sandy, compared with the $100 billion a year that advocates hope to see pledged to a Green Climate Fund by all nations. The fund, intended to help poorer countries reduce emissions and prepare for climate changes, has remained little more than an organizing principle since its creation in 2010, its fund-raising goals unmet.
朱莫指出，倡导者希望能看到所有国家承诺每年给绿色气候基金(Green Climate Fund)共拨款1000亿美元（约合6100亿元人民币），相比之下，仅为了应对飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)这一场风暴的灾后重建工作，美国国会就下拨了600亿美元。自从2010年成立以来，旨在帮助较为贫穷的国家减少排放并为气候变化做准备的绿色气候基金基本只能算是一个组织原则，筹资目标得不到满足。
Others have suggested a sort of insurance program.
其他人提出了一种保险计划。
The United States and other rich countries have made their opposition to large-scale compensation clear. Todd D. Stern, the State Department’s envoy on climate issues, bluntly told a gathering at Chatham House in London last month that large-scale resources from the world’s richest nations would not be forthcoming.
美国等富国已明确表示他们对大规模补偿的反对。上个月，美国国务院气候变化特使托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)在伦敦的皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的集会上直截了当地说，全球最富裕的国家不会很快提供大规模的资源。
Meanwhile, global emissions continue to rise. A report this month by the United Nations Environment Program warned that immediate action must be taken to reduce emissions enough to limit the rise in average global temperatures to 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above preindustrial levels. That is the maximum warming that many scientists believe can occur without causing potentially catastrophic climate change.
同时，全球的排放量在持续上升。联合国环境规划署本月公布的一份报告警告，必须立即行动，才能减少足够多的排放，把全球平均升温幅度限制在比前工业化时期的水平高2摄氏度的范围之内。许多科学家相信，如果不想导致潜在的灾难性气候变化，这是地球能承受的最大变暖幅度。
The current global turbulence, consistent with what scientists expect to happen as the climate changes, is already taking a toll.
目前的全球性气候波动，与科学家预计将要发生的变化相一致，已造成了影响。
As the hundreds of diplomats and advocates assembled for talks here, Justus Lavi was waiting for rain in Kenya. The wheat, beans and potatoes he planted on his farm in Makueni County sprouted, but the rainy season brought only two days of showers, threatening to ruin his yield.
当数百名外交官和倡导人士聚集在这里谈判时，贾斯特斯·拉维(Justus Lavi)正在肯尼亚等候降雨。他在马库埃尼县的农田里种植的小麦、豆类和土豆发芽了，可是雨季只下了两天阵雨，收成眼看就要不保。
In northern Somalia, Nimcaan Farah Abdi’s 10 acres of corn, tomatoes and other vegetables were ruined as violent storms swept the Horn of Africa. A typhoon last weekend in nearby Puntland killed more than 100 people, a disaster overshadowed by the far more destructive one in the Philippines.
在索马里北部，尼姆卡安·法拉·阿卜迪(Nimcaan Farah Abdi)的10英亩（约合4公顷）玉米、西红柿和几种蔬菜因为席卷非洲之角的强风暴而毁于一旦。上周末，发生在附近邦特兰的一场台风致使100多人丧生。但由于菲律宾那场台风的破坏性要大得多，这场灾难没有受到太多关注。
“My farm has been washed away,” Mr. Abdi said. It was the second year in a row of unusually heavy storms to have destroyed his livelihood, leaving him uncertain about how he will provide for his six children. “God knows,” he added, “but I don’t have anything to give now.”
阿卜迪说，“我的地被冲毁了。”这已经是连续第二年，罕见的风暴摧毁了他赖以为生的一切。他不确定，自己该拿什么来喂养六个孩子。他还说，“真主知道，可是现在，我拿不出任何东西了。”