When a quiet and courteous DVD executive named Kevin Tsujihara ascended to the Warner Bros. throne last year, Hollywood did not know quite what to make of him.
去年当一个名叫凯文·辻原(Kevin Tsujihara)，温和、谦恭的DVD部门主管晋升为华纳兄弟影业的首席执行官时，好莱坞对他并不算熟悉。
Lacking the usual show-business personality traits — screaming, scheming, showboating — and entering from the musty world of home entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara seemed awfully corporate for a business built around creativity. He had almost no experience managing movie or television show production. And yet this low-profile son of egg distributors was given the job of steering the motion picture industry’s biggest and most storied studio.
辻原缺乏哗众取宠、诡计多端、喜欢卖弄这些演艺圈常见的性格特点，他来自家庭娱乐这个落伍的行业，似乎与这个以创新为基础的行业很不搭调。他在电影或电视节目制作的管理方面几乎毫无经验。然而这个低调的鸡蛋批发商的儿子，却得到了这个掌管电影业最大、最出名公司的职位。
“In the beginning,” said Robert A. Daly, a former Warner chairman, “there were a lot of people who asked themselves, ‘Kevin who?’ ”
华纳公司的前任主席罗伯特·A·达利(Robert A. Daly)说，“一开始，很多人在心里问，‘哪个凯文？’”
Nobody is asking that now. Since last March, when he won a bitter succession battle to become C.E.O., Mr. Tsujihara, 49, has surprised Hollywood with bold moves that belie his nice-guy demeanor. He persuaded J.K. Rowling to expand the Harry Potter movie universe, something most people thought was a nonstarter. By hiring the flashy Fox executive responsible for “American Idol” and paying $273 million for part of Eyeworks, a Dutch entertainment company, Mr. Tsujihara moved to fix one of Warner’s most glaring weaknesses: overseas reality-TV production.
现在没人这么问了。从去年3月他赢得艰苦的继位之战，成为首席执行官之后，49岁的辻原以很多大胆的、与他的好好先生形象完全不符的举措令好莱坞惊讶不已。他说服J·K·罗琳(J.K. Rowling)扩展哈利·波特(Harry Potter)电影系列，大多数人原本认为那是不可能的事情。辻原聘请了福克斯公司负责《美国偶像》(American Idol)、暴脾气的那位经理人，还投资2.73亿美元参与荷兰娱乐公司Eyeworks，从而弥补了华纳公司最明显的一个弱点：海外真人秀节目制作。
He parted ways with one film financier and instantly teamed with another, securing $450 million to make 75 movies. Earlier this month, he risked a fight with theater owners by experimenting with the simultaneous release of “Veronica Mars” in theaters and through on-demand services. And he has already duked it out — twice — with no less a force than Harvey Weinstein, who started a naming-rights battle with Warner over “The Butler” and is suing the studio over its “Hobbit” series.
他和一个电影投资人分道扬镳，很快又和另一个结成同盟，从而弄到4.5亿美元资金，以拍摄75部电影。本月初（即3月初——编注），他冒着惹怒影院老板的风险，尝试通过影院和点播业务同时发行《美眉校探》(Veronica Mars)。他已经两次和哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)一决高下，两人势均力敌。韦恩斯坦就《白宫管家》(The Butler)的署名权与华纳展开了一场争夺战，目前正就《霍比特人》(Hobbit)系列起诉华纳公司。
The signals seem easy to read: Despite what many agents, producers and directors may have thought, Mr. Tsujihara’s reign will be anything but dull.
这些信号似乎不难解读：不管很多经纪人、制片人和导演是怎么想的，辻原的任期一定不会沉闷。
On one recent morning, just after breakfast with another new Hollywood kingpin, Jeff Shell, chairman of Universal Filmed Entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara sat in a stylish armchair inside his sparsely decorated executive suite in Burbank, Calif. “This was Jack Warner’s office,” he said with a grin, referring to the mogul who founded Warner in 1923. “I’m building a desk that is a replica of his desk. It’s really cool.”
前不久的一个上午，在和好莱坞的另一位新晋重要人物、环球影视娱乐公司的主席杰夫·谢尔(Jeff Shell)一起共进早餐之后，辻原回到自己位于加利福尼亚州伯班克、简单装饰的办公套间里。他坐在时髦的扶手椅上咧嘴一笑说，“这是杰克·华纳(Jack Warner)的办公室。我正在照着他的办公桌做一个新的仿制品。很酷的样子。”他说的是1923年开创华纳公司的那位电影大亨。
During an hour-and-a-half interview, Mr. Tsujihara came across as a relaxed father (of two young children) with a passion for sports. He loves the San Francisco Giants, owns a racehorse and likes to play basketball during lunchtime at the Warner gym. He seemed to be enjoying his new rank — he recently attended a Los Angeles Lakers game with Will Ferrell — while also finding it a bit confining; he now reads so many scripts that he has less time for books. “That’s a bummer,” he said.
在一个半小时的采访中，辻原给人的感觉是一位悠闲的父亲（他有两个年幼的子女），爱好体育运动。他非常喜欢旧金山巨人队，拥有一匹赛马，喜欢午餐时间在华纳的体育馆打篮球。他似乎正在享受自己的新职位——他最近和威尔·法瑞尔(Will Ferrell)一起观看了洛杉矶湖人队的比赛——不过也发现它有一点拘束：他现在要读很多剧本，没时间看书。“那是个苦差事，”他说。
But mostly he wanted to talk about the future. “Warner Bros. should be setting the course, making the hard decisions,” Mr. Tsujihara said, speaking in a careful, measured cadence. “In a very difficult operating environment there are clearly opportunities.”
但是他主要想谈论未来。“华纳兄弟公司必须定好方向，做出艰难的决定，”辻原用谨慎、有意控制的节奏说道，“在非常困难的经营环境中，肯定也有一些机会。”
For instance, as film companies either sputter (DreamWorks Studios), cut back on production (Paramount Pictures) or lean harder on television departments (Sony Pictures), Mr. Tsujihara is betting big on cinema. There is, he said, “a real opportunity to lean into theatrical using our scale and using our distribution power.” Despite problems ranging from sky-high marketing costs to competition from video games and 50-inch flat-screen TVs, “we think theatrical can be a growth engine,” he said.
比如，有的电影公司气急败坏（梦工厂），有的缩减制片（派拉蒙影业），有的更倚重电视（索尼影业），但是辻原还是在电影上下了大赌注。他说，“利用我们的规模和发行力量向电影倾斜才有真正的机会。”虽然存在各种问题，比如天价宣传费以及来自电子游戏和50英尺平板电视的竞争，但是他说“我们认为电影能够成为一个增长引擎”。
This summer, Warner will release eight movies, compared with five in the same period last year — the most of any studio. It’s an aggressive gamble that has some analysts worried; only one of the films, “Godzilla,” is a lower-risk remake or sequel. “If we were in charge of Warner’s studio, we would HIGHLY consider moving one or two of these films to later in the year or early 2015,” Doug Creutz, an analyst at Cowen & Company, wrote in a research note.
今年夏天，华纳将发行八部电影——去年同期是五部——超过了所有其他电影公司。这是个冒险的赌博，有些分析家为它感到担忧。其中只有一部电影——《哥斯拉》(Godzilla)——是风险较低的翻拍片或续集。“如果是我们掌管华纳公司，我们一定会考虑把其中一两部电影推迟到后半年或明年初发行，”Cowen & Company公司的分析师道格·克罗伊茨(Doug Creutz)在研究报告中写道。
While acknowledging the risk, Mr. Tsujihara sees an opportunity to start new franchises and to send a message to Hollywood’s top writers and directors: Bring your projects to Warner, because we are not pulling back. A steadily pumping pipeline of movies also suggests an optimism about the future of home entertainment. He sees evidence that studios are starting to train consumers to buy movies digitally (big profit) rather than renting them (small profit) or watching pirated copies (no profit).
辻原承认这有风险，但是他认为这是一个机会，可以开始新的系列大片，并向好莱坞的顶级编剧和导演们传递一个信息：把你的计划拿到华纳来，因为我们没有退缩。不断稳步推出电影也暗示出对家庭娱乐未来的乐观态度。他发现电影公司开始培养客户购买数字电影（巨额利润），而不是出租影碟（薄利）或者让他们观看盗版电影（零利润）。
Warner also see movies as an international play — the Chinese box office grew 30 percent last year, to $3.6 billion.
华纳还把电影看做一个国际游戏——去年中国的电影票房增长了30%，达到36亿美元。
Looking out a window toward Warner’s 35 sound stages, Mr. Tsujihara spoke solemnly about the pressure he feels to keep the studio’s engines firing. Home to enterprises as diverse as Batman, Bugs Bunny, “The Big Bang Theory” and TMZ.com, Warner had operating income of $1.33 billion last year, up 7.3 percent from a year earlier. Global box-office receipts for 2013 totaled $5.04 billion, the most of any studio. With 63 programs in production, Warner is the No. 1 supplier of television shows.
辻原望着窗外华纳的35个摄影棚，严肃地谈论着他为保证这家公司的引擎持续震动所感到的压力。华纳下属的项目五花八门，比如《蝙蝠侠》(Batman)、《兔八哥》(Bugs Bunny)、《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)和TMZ.com网站，去年的营业收入为13.3亿美元，比前年增长了7.3%。2013年的全球票房收入为50.4亿美元，为各大电影公司之首。华纳正在拍摄的电视节目达63部，是最大的电视节目供应商。
“This is not a turnaround,” he said. “But I do want to run the company differently as a way to improve and grow.”
“这不是一夜之间形成的，”他说，“但是我的确想用不同的方式经营这个公司，让它发展壮大。”
Only 14 months ago, Mr. Tsujihara was still caught up in a two-year, three-way race to succeed Barry M. Meyer, who retired as Warner’s chief executive last March. Bruce Rosenblum, the studio’s highly polished television president, was seen as the likely winner. Mr. Meyer, who led the studio for 14 years, had himself risen through the television division. Warner’s movie chief, Jeff Robinov, was a dark-horse candidate.
仅在14个月前，辻原仍在一个为期两年的三人竞赛中挣扎，他们争做巴里·M·迈耶(Barry M. Meyer)的继任者，后者去年3月从华纳首席执行官的位置上退休。华纳公司经验丰富的电视部主管布鲁斯·罗森布鲁姆(Bruce Rosenblum)被认为是最可能的赢家。领导该公司14年的迈耶就是从电视部升上来的。华纳的电影部主管杰夫·罗宾诺夫(Jeff Robinov)是候选人中的黑马。
Mr. Tsujihara was selected over his rivals (both of whom have since left the company) in part because he had experience with the disruptive technologies that are unraveling the entertainment industry’s traditional business models. As president of home entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara labored to prop up slumping DVD and Blu-ray sales while also prodding consumers to begin buying movies digitally. He also ran the studio’s video game division and led its antipiracy efforts.
辻原战胜对手（他们两位后来都离开了公司）的部分原因是他拥有正在瓦解娱乐业传统商业模式的革新技术的经验。作为家庭娱乐部的主管，辻原努力维持下滑的DVD和蓝光影碟的销售，同时鼓励消费者开始购买数字电影。他还经营该公司的电子游戏部，领导反盗版行动。
But his diplomatic skills were also crucial. In 2010, it was Mr. Tsujihara who flew to New Zealand to lead a tense negotiation that allowed Warner, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Peter Jackson to proceed with the “Hobbit” trilogy. Mr. Tsujihara and his team convinced New Zealand’s prime minister to agree to a deal where the government contributed financing and agreed to introduce new labor legislation to keep production going. (A suit brought by Mr. Weinstein seeking a greater share of the “Hobbit” profits, however, continues.)
但是他的外交技巧也很关键。2010年，是辻原飞到新西兰，领导一场紧张的谈判，使华纳、米高梅公司和彼得·杰克逊(Peter Jackson)得以拍摄《霍比特人》三部曲。辻原和他的团队说服新西兰总理同意一个协议，根据这个协议，新西兰政府将资助电影拍摄，并推出新的劳动法，保证拍摄能够进行（不过，韦恩斯坦提起了一项诉讼，要求获得《霍比特人》利润的更大份额，这项诉讼仍未结案）。
Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, which owns the studio, said he saw in Mr. Tsujihara a leader who could not only force Warner’s famously siloed divisions to work more cooperatively, but could also get along with newly installed chiefs at the conglomerate’s HBO and Turner Broadcasting units.
华纳影业所归属的时代华纳(Time Warner)集团的首席执行官杰弗里·L·比克斯(Jeffrey L. Bewkes)说，他认为辻原是一位优秀领导者，不仅能够迫使华纳以各自为政而出名的各部门能够更密切地合作，而且他与该集团的HBO频道和特纳广播公司的新任主管们合作得也很好。
“I don’t want people sitting with their egos in their fiefdoms,” Mr. Bewkes said. “Collaboration will only make us stronger.” In a lengthy telephone interview, Mr. Bewkes went on and on about Mr. Tsujihara’s talents. “Kevin is exceeding my already very high expectations,” he said.
“我不想让人们在自己的领地上自高自大，”比克斯说，“合作只会让我们更强大。”在漫长的电话采访中，比克斯不停地谈论辻原的才能。“凯文已经超过了我本来就很高的期望，”他说。
Mr. Tsujihara said his ambassadorial style — “behaving like a human being” is how he put it — reflected his unpretentious upbringing in Petaluma, Calif., north of San Francisco. His parents, second-generation Japanese immigrants who were forced into California internment camps during World War II, owned the modest Empire Egg Company there. The youngest of five children, Mr. Tsujihara grew up making egg deliveries. Summer jobs included sorting eggs on a conveyor belt and mucking chicken coops.
辻原说自己的使节作风——他的说法是“表现得像人类”——反映了自己在加州旧金山北部的佩塔卢马受到的谦逊的教养。他的父母是第二代日本移民，“二战”期间曾被关进加州的拘留营，在当地经营规模不大的帝国鸡蛋公司(Empire Egg Company)。辻原是五个孩子中最小的，从小就送鸡蛋。暑假里干的杂活包括在传送带上给鸡蛋分类，打扫鸡笼。
After earning an accounting degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Stanford, he founded a business called QuickTax that went belly-up. In 1994, through contacts at Ernst & Young, he got a job at Warner managing character licensing for Six Flags theme parks, among other duties. Soon, he was climbing the rungs.
他在南加州大学获得会计学位、在斯坦福大学获得工商管理硕士学位后，创立了一个名叫QuickTax的公司，后来这个公司破产了。1994年，通过安永会计公司的熟人，他在华纳得到一份工作，负责管理六旗(Six Flags)主题公园的人物形象授权等事务。很快，他开始往上升。
Wherever he learned the skill, his deft touch became clear to Hollywood’s creative community last September. That is when Warner announced that Ms. Rowling had agreed to adapt for the big screen her “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” a 2001 book billed as one of Harry Potter’s Hogwarts textbooks. Three megamovies are planned. The main character will be a “magizoologist” named Newt Scamander. The stories, neither prequels or sequels, will start in New York about seven decades before the arrival of Mr. Potter and his pals.
不管他熟练的技巧是从哪里学来的，去年9月这一点已得到好莱坞创意团体的公认。那是在华纳宣布罗琳同意把她的《神奇动物在哪里》(Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them)改编成电影之后。这本2001年出版的书被认为是哈利·波特(Harry Potter)在霍格沃茨魔法学校的教科书之一。华纳计划拍摄三部大制作。主人公将是一位名叫纽特·斯卡曼(Newt Scamander)的“魔法动物学家”。这些故事，不管是前传还是续集，都将始于比哈利·波特和他的小伙伴们早70年的纽约。
Convincing the famously independent Ms. Rowling to dive back into film was a coup. “When I say he made ‘Fantastic Beasts’ happen, it isn’t P.R.-speak but the literal truth,” Ms. Rowling said in response to emailed questions. “We had one dinner, a follow-up telephone call, and then I got out the rough draft that I’d thought was going to be an interesting bit of memorabilia for my kids and started rewriting!”
说服以独立闻名的罗琳重新投入电影是一次令人意外的巨大成功。“我说是他促使《神奇动物在哪里》得以拍摄，我不是在说公关套话，而是在说绝对的事实，”罗琳在回复电子邮件的提问时说，“我们吃了一顿晚餐，后来又打过一次电话，然后我拿出草稿开始改编了！我原来只是把这个草稿当做留给我的孩子们的纪念品。”
She added, “When Kevin got the top job, he brought a new energy, which rubbed off. He’s a very engaging person, thoughtful and funny.”
她补充说，“凯文得到这个顶级职位后，带来了新的活力，这能调动别人。他很有魅力，行事考虑周全，为人幽默风趣。”
Not everyone is such a fan. A few Hollywood players have suggested, for instance, that Mr. Tsujihara has had a successful early run largely because Mr. Robinov left behind hit movies, including “Gravity,” which took in $715 million worldwide and won seven Academy Awards. Asked about the sniping “Gravity” chatter in particular, Mr. Tsujihara said: “I don’t think it’s catty. Quite frankly, Jeff deserves the praise.”
不是每个人都这么喜欢他。比如，好莱坞的几个业内人士暗示，辻原就任初期的成功主要是因为罗宾诺夫留下了一些热门电影，包括《地心引力》(Gravity)，这部电影的全球票房是7.15亿美元，获得了七项奥斯卡大奖。当被问到人们总拿《地心引力》说事时，辻原说：“我觉得这不是阴险。非常坦白地说，杰夫值得获得赞美。”
Mr. Tsujihara faces the same daunting challenges as any Hollywood studio chief: scraping for material to make into hit television shows and movies, pushing into restrictive but booming international markets and finding ways to meaningfully cut marketing expenses, something that he called “our next big opportunity.”
辻原面临着每一位好莱坞电影公司首席执行官面临的令人畏惧的挑战：寻找能拍成热门电视剧和电影的素材，挤进虽有诸多约束却有利可图的国际市场，找到减少营销费用的有效方法，他说这是“我们下一步的巨大机会”。
But Warner also has unique puzzles. Efforts to resuscitate its Looney Tunes animation franchise have repeatedly failed to gain traction. The studio has been painfully slow to establish a slate of films based on DC Comics characters like Wonder Woman and the Flash, watching as Disney’s Marvel Entertainment churns out one superhero hit after another.
但是华纳也有自己独有的难题。恢复《兔八哥》漫画改编电影的努力屡屡受挫。眼看着迪士尼的漫威影业炮制出一个又一个热门超级英雄，该公司根据像神奇女侠和闪电侠等DC漫画人物拍摄一系列电影的行动却十分费力，进展缓慢。
Mr. Tsujihara noted recent progress on both of those fronts. Dan Lin, a Warner-based producer, is working on multiple sequels to “The Lego Movie,” which became a surprise blockbuster last month. (Mr. Tsujihara was directly responsible, having bought a company that makes Lego-themed video games in 2007. That led to the film, which has taken in more than $390 million worldwide.)
辻原提到了这两方面最近取得的进展。华纳的制片人林丹正在准备好几部《乐高大电影》(The Lego Movie)的续集，该片上个月意外地一鸣惊人（辻原是直接的功臣，他2007年买下了一个制作以乐高积木为主题的电子游戏的公司。进而有了这部电影，该片的全球票房是3.9亿多美元）。