WASHINGTON — Police officers used nonlethal crowd-control tools against dozens of protesters just blocks from the parade route where President Donald Trump was scheduled to pass Friday afternoon.
华盛顿——警察使用非致命的人群控制工具，对数十个抗议者进行了阻拦，他们的游行路线距离总统唐纳德·特朗普计划周五下午通过的路线相隔仅几个街区。
Protesters threw rocks and bricks at police, smashed car windows and lit trash cans on fire. Officers holding riot shields formed a phalanx and were trying to prevent protesters from advancing.
抗议者向警察投掷了石头和砖块，并砸碎了车窗，点燃了垃圾桶。手持防暴盾牌的警察形成了一个阵列，试图防止抗议者前进。
Earlier in the day, protesters destroyed the glass front of a Bank of America and a Starbucks in the area. The Metropolitan Police Department said at least 95 people had been arrested. A department spokesman said it would not release estimates on the number of protesters clashing with police.
今天早些时候，抗议者打碎了该地区一家美国银行(Bank of America)和一家星巴克的玻璃门。警方称至少有95人被捕，该部门发言人表示，不会公布与警方发生冲突的估计人数。
Many of the protesters were dressed in black, wore face masks and carried flags associated with anti-fascist groups. The protests attracted onlookers who watched the clashes while capturing images on cellphones. The protests created a distraction from Trump’s inauguration festivities. Television stations carried extensive footage of police officers clashing with the protesters as Trump attended a lunch with lawmakers and his supporters in the Capitol.
很多抗议者穿着黑色外衣，戴着面具，举着与反法西斯主义团体有关的旗帜。这场抗议吸引了不少旁观者，他们用手机拍下冲突画面。抗议活动转移了人们对特朗普就职庆典的注意力。就在特朗普与议员以及支持者在国会大厦共进午餐的时候，电视台拍摄了大量警察与抗议者冲突的内容。
Across the city, the demonstrations simmered in the hours before Trump was to take office.
在特朗普上任之前的几个小时里，抗议活动在城内各处冒出。
Some convened before sunrise in downtown Washington to protest Trump’s immigration policies, a gathering dotted with black hats that read, “Not My President.”
日出前，就有人在华盛顿市中心举行会议，抗议特朗普的移民政策，很多参加者戴着黑帽子，上面写着“他不是我的总统”。
A protest march of more than 50 people started around 9 a.m. in front of the Energy Department building near the Mall and then snaked through largely closed off streets to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
上午9点左右，50多人组成的抗议游行队伍从能源部大楼前出发，蜿蜒穿过大部分封闭的街道，到达住房和城市发展部。
Shouting “Our land,” and carrying signs that read, “Resist!” and “Protect!” the protesters said they were pressing for basic environmental protections and improved housing for the poor.
抗议者高喊“这是我们的土地”，他们举着“抗拒！”和“保护！”字样的手幅，表示迫切要求提供基本的环境保护和改善穷人住房条件。
“We’re here to call attention to Trump’s connections to companies that make money off of ruining people’s water,” said Hannah Jones, one of the marchers.
“我们在这里，是要提请大家注意，特朗普与那些破坏人们的水而赚钱的公司有关系，”参加游行的汉娜·琼斯(Hannah Jones)说。
Ramah Kudaimi, 30, who sits on the board of the Washington Peace Center, helped organize the protest opposing Trump’s proposed immigration policies.
30岁的拉玛·库达米(Ramah Kudaimi)是华盛顿和平中心(Washington Peace Center)的董事会成员，他参与组织了反对特朗普移民政策的抗议活动。
“It’s important from Day 1 of Trump’s administration that we make clear that we are going to be disrupting his agenda,” she said. “When communities are under attack, we are going to fight back.”
“重要的是，从特朗普政府上台第一天起，我们就要明确表示，我们将会打乱他的议程，”她说。“当社区受到攻击时，我们就会反击。”