TEHRAN — A reporter for The Washington Post who has been jailed since July was finally charged by the Iranian authorities in a 10-hour court session on Saturday, his family confirmed on Sunday, but he was not told what he was being charged with.
德黑兰——自今年7月就一直被关押的一名《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)记者的家属周日证实，这名记者周六在一次长达10小时庭审期间受到了伊朗当局的指控，但他并没有被告知自己被控的具体罪名。
The court appearance of the reporter, Jason Rezaian, was also confirmed by his lawyer, Saleh Nikbakht, who has not been allowed to defend Mr. Rezaian. Beyond that, Mr. Nikbakht said in a phone interview, “I don’t know what happened.”
这位记者名叫贾森·礼萨安(Jason Rezaian)。他的律师萨利赫·尼克巴克特(Saleh Nikbakht)也证实，礼萨安在法庭上露了面。该律师一直被禁止为礼萨安辩护。他在电话采访中说，除此之外，“还发生了什么我就不知道了。”
People close to Mr. Rezaian, including his wife, Yeganeh Salehi, who was herself arrested and then released in October, have refused to talk to the news media. But the family of Mr. Rezaian, who holds both American and Iranian citizenship, released a statement Sunday saying that charges had been filed and asking Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to release him. “In its ongoing disregard of Iran’s own laws,” the statement read, “the Iranian judiciary has continued to deny Jason access to legal representation, denied his request for bail and prevented access to review of his case file.
与礼萨安关系密切的人拒绝接受媒体采访，包括他的妻子耶加内·萨利希(Yeganeh Salehi)。萨利希自己在10月份也曾在逮捕后被释放。但礼萨安的家人周日发表了一份声明，证实礼萨安受到多项指控，并要求伊朗最高领导人阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)将其释放。礼萨安拥有美国和伊朗双重国籍。声明中说，“伊朗司法系统罔顾本国法律，多次拒绝让贾森得到律师代表，拒绝他的保释请求，并阻挠外界查阅他的案件卷宗。”
“This continued disrespect for Iran’s judicial system should be a concern not only to the international community who are eagerly awaiting normalization of relations with Iran, but also to all those Iranians who claim that Iran is a country of laws which should be recognized as such by major world powers.”
“这种对伊朗司法系统的持续不尊重，不仅应该让急于与伊朗实现关系正常化的国际社会感到忧虑，也应当让所有声称伊朗是法治国家，世界大国应该承认其法治国家地位的伊朗人感到汗颜。”
Secretary of State John Kerry issued a statement on Sunday condemning what he said was a denial of a bail request by Mr. Rezaian. He also condemned Iran for violating its own laws and international norms.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周日发表声明，对礼萨安的保释请求被拒一事表示谴责。他还谴责伊朗违反了自己国内的法律和国际惯例。
“I am personally dismayed and disturbed at these reports, as I have repeatedly raised Jason’s case, and the other cases of detained or missing U.S. citizens, directly with Iranian officials,” Mr. Kerry said.
“我个人对这些报道感到失望和不安，因为我已多次就贾森的案件，及其他美国公民被关押或下落不明的事件，直接向伊朗官员提出交涉，”克里说。
The arrest of Mr. Rezaian, who was officially accredited by the Iranian authorities to work as a journalist, came as a shock to his friends and family, as well as his employer. Iranian officials have said that he is being held for security reasons and that his case is unrelated to his journalism. His family members insist he is innocent of any wrongdoing, and say he has lost weight and is suffering from eye problems.
礼萨安从事新闻记者的工作，经过了伊朗官方的批准，因而他的被捕令朋友、家人乃至雇主都颇为震惊。伊朗官员称，他因安全原因被扣押，且案件与他的新闻工作无关。家人坚称他没有任何不当行为，并表示他体重下降，而且患有眼疾。
Mr. Rezaian and his wife were arrested along with another couple, a photographer and her husband. The others have been released.
礼萨安和妻子是与一名摄影师和她的丈夫一同被捕的。除礼萨安外，其他人均已获释。