My earliest sense of what it meant to be gay in the nation’s capital came more than a decade ago when I was a summer intern. I was a few blocks from Union Station when a congressman walked by and gave the reporters I was standing with a big, floppy wave hello.
十多年前，我做暑期实习生时，第一次知道身为同性恋在美国首都意味着什么。当时我在离联合车站几个街区的地方，一个国会议员从旁边经过，他跟我身边的记者们挥手打招呼，动作夸张又温柔。
“You know what they say about him,” said one of them, the inflection of his voice rising to a squeak so there could be no mistaking what he meant.
“你知道他们是怎么说他的，”其中一个记者说。他捏着嗓子尖声细语地说道，谁都知道他什么意思。
I didn’t know, in fact. I wasn’t even sure what the congressman’s name was. But the message was as clear as it was unsettling for a 20-year-old struggling with his own sexual identity: There were plenty of gay people in Washington, even at the highest levels of government. But instead of being widely accepted, they were usually whispered about derisively, suspect characters to be mocked and maligned.
实际上我不知道。我甚至不确定那位议员的名字。但是对于一个正为自己的性取向挣扎的20多岁的人来说，他传递的信息清晰而令人不安：虽然华盛顿有很多同性恋，甚至在政府高层也是如此，但是他们不是被普遍接受，而是可疑人物，常常被私下里嘲弄、取笑，甚至中伤。
Today, having moved here 10 months ago after six and a half years of living in Manhattan, I hardly recognize that closeted, often intolerant Washington I first glimpsed as a 20-year-old. I now live in the gayest place in America.
我在曼哈顿生活了六年半，十个月前搬到这里。现在我几乎认不出我20岁时第一次看到的那个封闭、狭隘的华盛顿了。我现在生活在美国同性恋最多的地方。
But don’t take my word for it. Consider what surveys by Gallup and the Census Bureau have found about the gay population here. When the District of Columbia is compared with the 50 states, it has the highest percentage of adults who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, according to Gallup. At 10 percent, that is double the percentage in the state that ranks No. 2, Hawaii, and nearly triple the overall national average of 3.5 percent.
不过我的话不足为信。看看盖洛普公司和人口普查局对这里同性恋人群的调查结果你就知道了。盖洛普公司把哥伦比亚特区与美国的其他50个州相比，发现这里的女同性恋、男同性恋、双性恋和变性人的比例最高，达10%。排名第二的夏威夷的比例只有它的一半，全国同性恋的比例是3.5%，差不多只有它的三分之一。
The Census Bureau looked at where the highest percentage of same-sex couple households were and also found that the District of Columbia ranked far higher than the 50 states, with 4 percent. The national average is just under 1 percent.
人口普查局在调查同性恋家庭的比例时，也发现哥伦比亚特区远远高于其他50个州，达4%。全国的平均比例不到1%。
One of my first observations about my new city was the throngs of gay men I would see over the course of a typical day all over town — walking their dogs in my neighborhood before work, riding the Metro, working in the halls of Congress.
我对这座新城市的第一印象之一，就是寻常一天里在城中各处都能看到很多同性恋者——上班前在我的社区附近能看到他们在遛狗，坐地铁时能看到他们，在国会的走廊里能看到他们在工作。
I’m not the first to have noticed this change.
我不是第一个注意到这种变化的人。
“There’s an openly gay presence that makes you think you’re in the Castro or West Hollywood, and it wasn’t always the case,” Robert Raben, an assistant attorney general during the Clinton administration who was one of several openly gay people appointed by President Clinton, told me. “The federal government was a nightmare for homosexuals for decades, and then it wasn’t.”
“这里开放的同性恋氛围，让你以为自己是在卡斯特罗或西好莱坞，以前不是这样的，”罗伯特·拉本(Robert Raben)对我说。他曾任克林顿政府的首席检察官助理，是克林顿总统任命的几个公开同性恋身份的人之一。“几十年来，对同性恋来说，联邦政府就像个恶梦，后来情况发生了变化。”
Such ubiquity isn’t just an abundance of gay bars, though there are at least six within walking distance of my house in the Logan Circle neighborhood of Northwest Washington. On the days I make the 20-minute walk from home to my office near the White House, I will pass one example after another of this city’s thriving gay economy: a Mitchell Gold & Bob Williams furniture store; a clothing retailer whose window displays regularly feature bare-torso, well-endowed mannequins in nothing but tiny briefs; three CrossFit gyms; the offices of two gay newspapers, The Washington Blade and Metro Weekly (most cities cannot even sustain one); a bathhouse; and the national headquarters for the Human Rights Campaign.
华盛顿有大量同性恋酒吧。在我位于华盛顿西北部洛根圈的寓所附近，步行距离内的同性恋酒吧就至少有六家。不仅如此，从我家走到我在白宫附近的办公室需要20分钟，一路上，我能看到一个又一个例子，证明这个城市存在繁荣的同性恋经济：Mitchell Gold & Bob Williams家具店；一个服装店，它橱窗里的人体模特裸露着躯干，只穿三角内裤，凸显着硕大的生殖器；三家CrossFit健身馆；两家同性恋报纸《华盛顿刀锋》(The Washington Blade)和《都会周刊》(Metro Weekly)的办公室（大多数城市连一家都维持不下去）；一个公共浴室；“人权战线”的全国总部。
Anyone walking through the Dupont Circle neighborhood the other night would have found themselves fighting for sidewalk space with the hundreds of spectators — many of them straight — who had gathered to watch the 17th Street High Heel Race, an annual sprint for drag queens who tear down the block in heels. And when I tried to make plans a few weekends ago, I found most of my friends were booked solid because they were attending one of two huge gay-themed events: the Human Rights Campaign annual black-tie dinner, featuring Jennifer Lopez as the main event; or the Miss Adams Morgan drag pageant, which is such a large production it takes over the Washington Hilton.
几天前的一个晚上，经过杜邦圈的人发现自己要十分吃力才能走过17街的人行道，因为那里有成百上千名观众在观看一年一度的变装皇后高跟鞋短跑比赛——其中很多观众不是同性恋。几周前我做计划的时候发现，我的大部分朋友都没空，因为他们要参加两个重要的同性恋主题活动：一个是“人权战线”年度正式晚宴，詹妮弗·洛佩兹(Jennifer Lopez)要来参加；另一个是亚当斯·摩根小姐(Miss Adams Morgan)变装游行，参加这个重大活动的人把华盛顿的希尔顿酒店都占满了。
When our federal district is measured against other cities with large gay populations, a comparison that experts say is better than comparing to states, it still ranks at the top of the list. Gary J. Gates, who studies census data for the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, reports that Washington has 18.1 same-sex couples per 1,000 households. That places it eighth among cities with populations larger than 250,000.
专家们说，把联邦特区跟其他有大量同性恋人口的城市相比较，比跟其他州比较要合适一些，不过它仍然排名第一。盖理·J·盖茨(Gary J. Gates)为洛杉矶加州大学威廉姆斯学院研究户口普查数据。他说，在华盛顿，每1000户家庭中有18.1户是同性恋家庭。在人口超过25万的大城市中，它排名第八。
Sorry, New York, but you have only 8.75 same-sex couples per 1,000 households. In Manhattan alone, it’s higher, at 16.7, but still not higher than D.C. The top three are San Francisco (30.3 per 1,000), Seattle (23) and Oakland (21). The numbers capture only those who acknowledge being in a same-sex relationship.
对不起，纽约，你的每千户家庭中，只有8.75户是同性恋家庭。单说曼哈顿的话，这个比例要高一些，是16.7户，但是仍然没有华盛顿高。前三名分别是旧金山（每千户中有30.3户）、西雅图（23户）和奥克兰（21户）。这些数据只包括那些承认是同性恋的家庭。
Every gay man or lesbian I spoke to for this article had a horror story about what it was like working in the closet, fearing they would be found out. It was only during the Clinton years that the White House finally ended the decades-long practice of denying security clearance to people known to be gay or lesbian. That meant in order to be considered for many high-level jobs involving access to classified information, gays and lesbians had to concoct a web of lies about their personal lives.
我为撰写本文而采访的每个同性恋都有过工作时不敢公开同性恋身份的可怕经历，时刻担心被人发现。克林顿执政时期，白宫最终结束了长达几十年的做法，不再禁止公开承认同性恋身份的人取得安全级别。之前，同性恋要想获得接触机密情报的高级工作职位，就不得不捏造关于个人生活的各种谎言。
Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic lobbyist who worked on Capitol Hill for years, described how he and his gay friends had to make sure they all gave the same references to government agents investigating their backgrounds, an insurance policy so that if the question of their sexual orientation came up, they could be certain no one unpredictable would spill the truth.
史蒂夫·埃尔门多夫(Steve Elmendorf)是一名民主党说客，在国会山工作多年。他说，他和同性恋朋友们不得不给进行背景调查的政府特工提供相同的证明人，以确保如果调查者提出关于性取向的问题，不会有人意外说出真相。
Hilary Rosen, a longtime Democratic lobbyist, told me that in the 1980s she once unsuccessfully tried to persuade Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, to support a bill that would have given more AIDS-prevention money to San Francisco. “He said to me with much concern and affection, ‘Oh, Hilary, why would you want to help those people?’ ” she said. “When I told him I was actually one of those people, he shook his head, tried to change the subject and voted against us.” In a sign of how much has changed, she noted, Mr. Hatch recently voted for legislation to include gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people in federal nondiscrimination law.
希拉里·罗森(Hilary Rosen)长期担任民主党说客。她告诉我，在20世纪80年代她曾游说犹他州共和党人、参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)支持一项给旧金山提供更多艾滋病预防资金的提案，但是她失败了。“他关切地问我，‘哦，希拉里，你为什么想要帮助那些人呢？’”她说，“当我告诉他我就是他们中的一员时，他摇了摇头，试图改变话题，并最终投票反对那项提案。”她说，哈奇最近投票支持把同性恋、双性恋和变性人纳入联邦反歧视法的保护范围，这表明情况发生了很大改变。
A spokeswoman for Mr. Hatch said, “That was then.”
哈奇的一位女发言人说，“那只是他当年的想法。”
Fred Sainz, the vice president for communications and marketing at the Human Rights Campaign, recalled working as a young man for various Republican lawmakers. He was closeted at the time but knew that at least two of the general counsels he worked for and one senior administrator were secretly gay.
弗雷德·赛恩斯(Fred Sainz)是人权战线负责交流和推广的副主席。他回忆起自己年轻时为几位共和党立法委员工作的情形。他当时没有出柜，但是他知道至少有两位法律总顾问和一位政府高官是同性恋，不过没有公开身份。
“It was poisonous to be gay,” he told me, “even when applying for a government job.”
“身为同性恋很麻烦，”他告诉我，“甚至在你申请政府职位时都有麻烦。”
But it was hardly shameful only in Republican circles. Richard Socarides, a lawyer who was one of President Clinton’s openly gay appointees, said that in the early 1990s when he was applying for a job on Capitol Hill in the office of Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, one of the senator’s associates said that Mr. Harkin might need to be concerned about hiring Mr. Socarides because of his sexual orientation. Mr. Socarides got the job regardless.
当时，不只是共和党的圈子认为同性恋不体面。律师理查德·索卡里兹(Richard Socarides)是克林顿总统任命的其中一位公开同性恋身份的人。他说20世纪90年代初他申请在艾奥瓦州民主党人、参议员汤姆·哈尔金(Tom Harkin)的办公室工作。哈尔金的一位同僚说，鉴于索卡里兹的性取向，哈尔金可能需要好好考虑一下要不要雇佣他。不过索卡里兹还是得到了那份工作。
Nor was it only political office that compelled you to be closeted. Sean Bugg, executive director of the Next Generation Leadership Foundation and editor emeritus of Metro Weekly, recalled being a reporter covering tax issues on Capitol Hill in 1990 when he bumped into another reporter he recognized at the Dakota Cowgirl, a popular gay bar at the time. “He shot away from me like you wouldn’t believe,” Mr. Bugg said, adding that there was still a sense you were never truly safe being even half-open about being gay back then. “This was the time when the military was still doing surveillance in gay bars.”
当时，也不只是政治工作迫使你不敢公开同性恋身份。肖恩·巴格(Sean Bugg)是“下一代领导力基金会”的执行理事，也是《都会周刊》的荣退编辑。他回忆说，1990年他在国会山报道税收问题时，在当时大受欢迎的同性恋酒吧Dakota Cowgirl认出了另一位记者。“他转身就走，速度快得不可思议，”巴格说。他补充说，那时候人们仍然觉得，即使你只是半公开，你也不是彻底安全。“那时候军方还在监视同性恋酒吧。”
Such shyness is unheard-of in the D.C. bar scene today, with old stalwarts like JR’s, with its one-for-every-taste clientele, and newer additions like Number 9, which can feel like perpetual happy hour for the city’s gay political-media complex. Guy Cecil, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, told me an especially ambitious young man once hunted him down on the dance floor of a local gay bar and handed him his résumé. Apparently he had heard Mr. Cecil went there sometimes on the weekends. While he admired the young man’s intrepidness, Mr. Cecil said he did not give him the job.
如今，在华盛顿的同性恋酒吧里，你再也见不到这样的胆怯。这里既有老牌酒吧，比如JR’s，它的主顾形形色色；也有新酒吧，比如Number 9，它像是这座城市政治媒体圈的同性恋们永远的天堂。盖伊·塞西尔(Guy Cecil)是民主党参议员助选委员会的执行理事。他说有一次一个特别有雄心的年轻人在当地一家同性恋酒吧的舞池追踪到他，把自己的简历递给他。显然，他听说塞西尔有时会在周末去那里。尽管塞西尔欣赏这个年轻人的勇气，但是他没有给他那份工作。
Of course, it’s not all utopian for the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community here. There are still occasional attacks, like one this summer when a male drag performer was beaten in the heart of what is considered one of the most tolerant neighborhoods. Gays are also no longer ghettoized in one area of Washington. Gradually, they have fanned out from Dupont Circle, which is now full of heterosexual families, all across the city.
当然，对同性恋、双性恋和变性人来说，这里也不完全是乌托邦。偶尔仍有一些攻击，比如今年夏天，一位男性变装表演者在一个被认为是非常宽容的社区的中心地带被殴打。同性恋也不再只是聚居在华盛顿的某块区域。他们慢慢从杜邦圈散开，生活在这个城市的各个角落。杜邦区现在充满了异性恋家庭。
All of these anecdotes and statistics raise a puzzling question about the District’s gay and lesbian population: Why are they all here? They could not have just moved in. Unlike cities like Austin, Tex., that rank high on the list of same-sex households (No. 15), Washington has not experienced a huge population boom in the last decade.
所有这些轶事和数据引发了一个让人困惑的问题：为什么同性恋们都在这里？他们应该不是刚搬来的。不像德克萨斯州奥斯汀这样的城市——在同性恋家庭比例的排行榜上，奥斯汀也比较靠前（第15位）——华盛顿在过去十年中没有出现人口激增。
One answer seems to be that they have always been here. Gays and lesbians do seem to be drawn to politics in disproportionately high numbers. Mr. Elmendorf told me he thinks that gay people, because they were mostly without children, were able to resist the draw of higher pay in the private sector.
其中一个原因似乎是他们一直都在这里。同性恋似乎对政治特别感兴趣。埃尔门多夫告诉我，他认为同性恋能够抵挡私企高收入的吸引，因为他们大多没有孩子。
“All the straight people would leave, worrying about how they were going to send their kids to Sidwell Friends,” he said, referring to the elite private school that graduated Chelsea Clinton and currently educates the Obama daughters.
“异性恋迟早都会离开，因为他们最终会为怎样才能送孩子去西德维尔友谊中学上学而忧虑，”他说。西德维尔友谊中学是一家私立精英学校，切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)毕业于此，奥巴马的女儿们正在这里就读。
The repeal of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy in 2010 also helped draw more gay people out of the closet. Washington has always had a large military population, many of whom were scared of being too open about who they were until the law changed.
2010年，美军废除了“不要问，不要说”的政策，更多同性恋开始出柜。华盛顿一直都有很多军人，他们中的很多人在法律更改之前不敢过于公开自己的同性恋身份。
As gays and lesbians moved from the recesses of society into the mainstream, few major cities have seen such an obvious impact as Washington.
同性恋正从社会边缘进入社会主流，但是没几个大城市像华盛顿这样受到如此明显的影响。
Consider the story of Franklin E. Kameny, a pioneering gay rights activist whose personal history is emblematic of how Washington’s acceptance of gays has evolved. A Harvard-trained astronomer with the Army Map Service, Mr. Kameny was fired from his job after being arrested in 1957 by members of the morals division of the city police force.
想想富兰克林·E·卡米尼(Franklin E. Kameny)的故事吧。卡米尼是争取同性恋权益的先驱，他的个人经历反映了华盛顿慢慢接受同性恋的过程。他是哈佛大学毕业的天文学家，曾供职于陆军制图局，1957年他被华盛顿警察局道德部逮捕之后遭到辞退。
Mr. Kameny sued, filing appeals all the way to the Supreme Court. He lost. But when President Obama signed the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” he invited Mr. Kameny and sat him in the front row at a White House ceremony.  I had the chance to meet Mr. Kameny, who died in 2011, about a year before this occasion. His message then, having just received an official apology for being fired decades earlier, was that gay rights activists had to remember to be patient. Today, a stretch of 17th Street NW, in the heart of the Dupont Circle neighborhood, is named for him.
卡米尼起诉、上诉，一直告到了最高法院。他最终败诉。不过奥巴马总统签署废除“不要问，不要说”政策时，邀请卡米尼参加在白宫举行的仪式，并安排他坐在第一排。卡米尼2011年去世，我大约在他参加那个仪式之前一年见过他。当时政府刚为几十年前辞退他正式道歉。他说同性恋权益活动家们一定要有耐心。如今，位于杜邦圈中心地带的第17街的某一段以他命名。
That’s where the drag queens hold their Pamplona-like running every year.
变装皇后们每年在这里举办赛跑盛会。