For the first time in history, the more money you’ve got, the emptier your home is. The Victorians were criticized for their “horror vacui,” the fear of empty space that led to rooms cluttered with bookcases, pictures and bric-a-brac. The new rich suffer from the opposite condition: “amor vacui,” or the love of empty space. Across the world — from London to New York, from Paris to Florence — the new tycoons’ houses have become vacuums.
现在的趋势是，人越有钱，房子越空旷，这在历史上还是头一遭。维多利亚时代的人因其“horror vacui”饱受诟病，所谓的horror vacui，就是指害怕空荡荡的空间。正是出于这种恐惧，维多利亚时代的人喜欢把房间里摆满书架、挂满图片、堆满五花八门的小摆设。而在当今时代，新富们走向了截然相反的极端：“amor vacui”，或言对空荡荡的空间的喜爱。从伦敦到纽约，从巴黎到佛罗伦萨，世界各地新晋大亨的宅邸，都显得空空如也。
To get the nihilist look, historic architecture is being destroyed by radical alteration or demolition. One beachside home in the Hamptons makes an instructive example. The site began life with a Henry F. du Pont mansion, an elegant exercise in Georgian proportion. In the 1980s, it was given a makeover from hell by Barry Trupin, a financier later convicted of tax evasion. Trupin added a 20-foot waterfall to the back of the house and installed an indoor shark tank and private burro zoo. With its jumble of witch’s-hat towers and mansard roofs, the house would have made a fine home away from home for the Addams Family or Norman Bates’s mother.
为了取得这种空洞虚无的视觉效果，历史建筑要么被大刀阔斧地改建，要么被夷为平地。坐落于汉普顿斯(Hamptons)的一处海边住宅，就是个富有教育意义的例子。这处建筑一开始是亨利F·杜邦(Henry F. du Pont)的宅邸，其设计古朴典雅，是乔治亚风格(Georgian)建筑的代表。20世纪80年代，这栋年久失修的别墅经历了一次噩梦般的大改造，当时的房主是金融家特鲁宾(Trupin)，此人后来因逃税而被定罪。特鲁宾在后院造了一座高20英尺（约合6米）的瀑布；又装了一台室内鲨鱼缸，建了一座饲养驴子的私人动物园。一排排巫师帽形状的尖塔和复折式屋顶看上去显得杂乱无章，一座好端端的别墅就这么被改头换面，看上去就像亚当斯庄园（电影《亚当斯一家》[the Addams Family]中描绘的哥特式庄园——译注）或诺曼·贝茨母亲的住所（出自希区柯克恐怖电影《惊魂记》——译注）。
Calvin Klein came along in 2003, and eventually went through a reported $75 million on the property, and no fewer than three architects. First he tried to remodel the Trupin monstrosity, before giving up and razing it four years ago to build the ultimate glass box. It took a $350,000 life-size mock-up of the house for him to realize that people could peer into his shower from the beach. So he ordered some bushes.
2003年，卡尔文·克莱恩(Calvin Klein)成为这座大宅的新主人。据报道，他在这栋房产上总共投入7500万美元（约合人民币4.6亿元），聘请了不下三名建筑设计师。一开始，他试图通过改建，将特鲁宾留下的畸形烙印抹去，结果发现是徒劳的。于是在四年前，他索性将原来的房子夷为平地，重新建造了一栋方方正正的玻璃幕墙式别墅。而直到查看了一个耗资35万美元（约合人民币213万元）建成的房屋等比例模型，他才发觉别人可以从海滩上透过玻璃窥视他的浴室。于是，他订购了一些灌木。
Overexposure is also a feature of the triplet of glass towers designed by Richard Meier on the West Side Highway in Manhattan. When Rita Schrager, the former dancer and ex-wife of Ian Schrager, installed curtains in her apartment that were against the building’s rules, the actor Vincent Gallo, in a neighboring tower, reportedly prepared a sign he intended to tape on his own wall of glass that spelled out, “Rita Schrager is a whore” (He decided against it at the last minute.)
理查德·迈耶(Richard Meier)在曼哈顿西侧高速公路(West Side Highway)边设计的玻璃三塔，也有过度暴露隐私的缺陷。前舞蹈演员、精品酒店老板伊恩·施拉格(Ian Schrager)的前妻丽塔·施拉格(Rita Schrager)曾违反物业规定，擅自在公寓里装上窗帘。据报道，当时，住在隔壁大楼的演员文森特·加洛(Vincent Gallo)准备了一条标语，打算贴在自家的玻璃墙上，标语上写着“丽塔·施拉格是个婊子”（他在最后一刻改变了主意）。
The glass box is the period at the end of architectural history, the final erasure of every pinnacle, crocket, pediment and entablature that ornamented the last few thousand years’ worth of history. They knew better in the Gilded Age of the late 19th century. The Fricks, the Morgans and the Astors might have had a Greek Revival or Federal brownstone in Manhattan; a Renaissance Newport cottage; perhaps a French chateau and an English country house, too, each respecting its own period. But now, like people who want the same clothes from interchangeable H&M outlets across the globe, the well-heeled crave the identical, comfortingly empty look wherever they go. The same white box awaits them in Greenwich Village, Mayfair and Tuscany — and not just at home, but also in their favorite hotels. This endgame suggests that nothing at all is better than something.
玻璃盒子式的房屋，是建筑史上最新出现的一种建筑形式，它将小尖塔、卷叶浮雕、三角墙、柱上楣钩等具备上千年厚重历史积淀的建筑元素一概抹去。这些元素在19世纪末的镀金时代(Gilded Age)更加广为人知。弗里克（Frick，美国企业家、金融家——译注）、摩根、阿斯特（Astor，美国皮货商人、资本家、慈善家——译注）家族或许都拥有好几套富有历史特色的房产。他们可能拥有一套地处曼哈顿的希腊复古式或称联邦式（Greek Revival或Federal，是乔治亚式的升华，两者都有体量较大、四方型、二层结构以及精心设计的正门等特点——译注）的褐石建筑；拥有一套位于纽波特(Newport)的文艺复兴式小别墅；或许还有一套法式大别墅和一套英式乡间庄园。每一栋建筑，都带有典型的时代印记。但如今，正如人们在着装上都喜欢跟风一样，富豪们无论走到哪里，都只钟情于清一色的、空荡荡的建筑。无论是在格林尼治村（Greenwich Village，曼哈顿下城居民区——译注），还是在梅费尔（Mayfair，伦敦市中心的一个区域——译注），抑或是在托斯卡纳（Tuscany，意大利中西部风景优美的自治区——译注），方方正正的白色建筑无处不在——无论是富豪们的私宅还是他们经常下榻的酒店，都是如此。这一结局正是“空胜于有”的生动写照。
I’m not looking for a return to Classicism, Gothicism or any other historic style. (And you can renovate the soul out of a house, too, with a slavish devotion to the past that kills off any warm, lived-in feel.) I’m all for modern buildings to suit the modern age. But there’s something unsettling about the way this empty glass box pops up everywhere and anywhere, even in the most unlikely places. Out in bucolic Oxfordshire, in England, the actor Rowan Atkinson is set to replace a classical 1930s house with what looks like a small airport terminal, designed by — of course — Richard Meier.
我并不是在期待现代建筑回归古典式、哥特式或其它具有历史特色的艺术风格（事实上，一味模仿过去，反而会扼杀一座住宅的温馨氛围，让人觉得了无生气）；我百分之百支持既然是现代建筑，就理应符合现代设计风格的观点。但是，令人担忧的地方在于，现在全世界到处都是空荡荡的方形玻璃楼，就连最不应该盖这种楼的地方也未能幸免。在英格兰乡村风情浓郁的牛津郡(Oxfordshire)，演员罗万·艾金森（Rowan Atkinson，“憨豆先生”的扮演者——译注）打算将一座20世纪30年代的古典式住宅拆掉，建一座像小型机场航站楼一样的别墅，毫无疑问，其设计师正是理查德·迈耶。
In Kensington, in west London, the new buyers of Thurloe Lodge, a lovely Victorian house, are about to demolish it and rebuild a bigger home. The house has met this fate after the 2007 death of its owner, Mark Birley, the founder of Annabel’s: London’s most famous nightclub, renowned for its cluttered, old-fashioned décor, opened in 1963, when the rich admired things like pictures, statues and antique fireplaces. Surely the lodge’s 6,000 square feet was quite enough room already, with five bedrooms, a separate cottage, garden and two garages?
瑟洛别墅(Thurloe Lodge)坐落在伦敦西部的肯辛顿(Kensington)，是一座美观的维多利亚式住宅。自从房主马克·伯利(Mark Birley)2007年去世以后，这栋别墅就面临着被拆毁的命运，因为新买家打算建一座更大的房子。马克·伯利是伦敦最著名的夜总会Annabel's的创始人。1963年开业的Annabel’s向来以其杂乱无章的旧式装潢闻名，当时的富豪们都钟爱字画、雕塑、古董壁炉这类物什。既然瑟洛别墅占地6000平方英尺（约合557平方米），带有五间卧室、一栋独立的小别墅、一座花园和两个车库，难道它还不够大吗？
Where houses aren’t torn down, their interiors are ripped out, to turn elegant collections of rooms into enormous voids. Roman Abramovich, the Russian oligarch who owns Chelsea Football Club, is well acquainted with the hollowing-out process. First, he bought all nine apartments inside two stucco-fronted mid-19th-century houses in Lowndes Square, around the corner from Harrods, and got planning permission to knock them together, demolish interior walls and install a swimming pool. But the project ran into delays, and last year he decided to put it on the market with the renovations unfinished.
有些历史建筑虽未被夷为平地，但其室内装饰也全被拆卸一空，原本放满高档藏品的房间，变成了巨大的空屋子。俄罗斯寡头、切尔西足球俱乐部老板罗曼·阿布拉莫维奇(Roman Abramovich)对于这种清空古宅的流程可谓驾轻就熟。他曾在隆帝斯广场(Lowndes Square)近哈罗德百货(Harrods)的街角，物色了两栋始建于19世纪中期的住宅楼，其正面采用了生态壳涂料。阿布拉莫维奇将楼中九套公寓全部买下，并拿到了规划许可(planning permission)。依此许可，他可以将房子打通，拆掉内墙，安装一座泳池。但是开发项目陷入了停滞。去年，他决定在装修未完成的情况下将房子上市出售。
In Cheyne Walk, Chelsea — that famous 18th-century riverside terrace in London, home at various times to James McNeill Whistler, Mick Jagger and Keith Richards — Abramovich got planning permission to connect not two but three houses, together said to be worth $150 million, in a $15 million disemboweling scheme. Suddenly, this past summer, he decided to sell off these properties too. That’s the other problem with the international elite: they often don’t live in the places they buy and renovate purely as investments. The houses never get the personal touch that makes for idiosyncratic beauty; nor do they accumulate the layers of beautiful objects that come with long-term affection for a home.
切尔西(Chelsea)的夏纳步道(Cheyne Walk)上有一座始建于18世纪的河畔排屋，是伦敦著名的古宅。画家詹姆斯·麦克尼尔·惠特勒(James McNeill Whistler)、摇滚歌星米克·贾格(Mick Jagger)、音乐人基斯·理查兹(Keith Richards)曾先后居住于此。阿布拉莫维奇也取得了这栋排屋的规划许可，被允许通过一项斥资1500万美元（约合人民币9100万元）的“开膛”工程，将这三套（而不仅仅是两套）房子连成一体。据说这三套房子的总价值高达1.5亿美元（约合人民币9.1亿元）。而就在刚刚过去的这个夏天，他突然决定也把这些房产卖掉。这正是他们这些国际精英的另一个毛病：他们往往并不居住在自己购买的房产中，而只是纯粹将买房作为一种投资行为。他们的房产毫无个性，因此也不具备独特的美感；房子里也没有添置精美的家什。毕竟，只有久住之人才会出于对家的眷恋而在这上面下功夫。
If you butcher the innards of houses like this, you completely lose the buildings’ overarching aesthetic. Houses from the 18th and 19th centuries weren’t built as pick ’n’ mix architecture, with interiors floating free of exteriors. The inside and the outside were designed to complement each other. British terraced houses are versions of Palladio’s palazzos in Vicenza, with exterior window heights matched to internal room dimensions. In earlier terraced houses, the second floor emulated the Italian piano nobile: “the grand floor,” with the tallest windows and ceilings, because that’s where the entertaining, and showing off, was done. The dadoes, paneling and cornices of the interior walls were carefully designed in proportion with the windows. Remove those walls and floors, as the new nihilists are doing, and you destroy the delicate harmony between exterior and interior — and sometimes much more.
如果你深入剖析这类改建房的内部结构就会发现，它们与其外观的建筑美学全无联系。现在的建筑都是元素混搭式的，而18世纪至19世纪的住宅则截然不同，其内饰和外饰是相辅相成、互为补充的有机体。英国的排屋与建筑师帕拉第奥(Palladio)在维琴察（Vicenza，是位于意大利维琴察省的一座城市——译注）设计的宫殿有异曲同工之妙，外窗的高度与内室的规格完美匹配。早期排屋的二楼，效法了意大利建筑的主楼层，窗户和天花板都是最高的，因为主楼层是招待客人和炫耀品位的场所。内墙的护墙板、嵌板和檐口的规格也都经过精心设计，使之与窗户完美搭配。如果像新晋富豪所做的那样，为了追求空洞虚无的视觉效果而拆掉这些墙体和地板，那么历史建筑的外饰与内饰间所形成的和谐之美，将被毁坏殆尽——而有时候，改建的代价还远不止这些。
One of the finest houses in Paris — the Hôtel Lambert, the 17th-century palace built by Louis Le Vau on the Île Saint-Louis — was having its heart ripped out by its new owner, Prince Abdullah bin Khalifa al-Thani, half-brother of the Emir of Qatar. To customize the building for luxury living, new bathrooms and an elevator were to have been inserted, an underground garage added and the garden wall raised. But the plans were altered after loud protests. Last July, in the midst of the renovations, the house was severely disfigured when a fire in the middle of the night collapsed part of the roof, destroying a set of important frescoes.
兰伯特酒店(Hôtel Lambert)是巴黎最精美的建筑之一。这座由设计师路易·勒沃(Louis Le Vau)在圣路易岛(Île Saint-Louis)建造的17世纪宫殿，现在的新主人是卡塔尔国王同父异母的兄弟：阿卜杜拉·本·纳赛尔·本·哈利法·阿勒萨尼(Abdullah bin Khalifa al-Thani)王子。为了将兰伯特酒店改造成奢华寓所，他打算在宫殿内加装全新的卫生间和电梯，同时修建地下车库和花园围墙。但是，这一计划因外界的强烈抗议而变更。去年7月，正处于装修过程中的兰伯特酒店午夜失火，造成部分屋顶倒塌，一组价值连城的壁画也被烧毁，整座宫殿变得满目疮痍。
Houses can’t be set in stone, of course. Interiors inevitably change as national habits change. Dining rooms and servants’ quarters, a necessity in Georgian and Victorian houses, aren’t needed anymore — except, funnily enough, in the houses of the super-rich, who are wrecking the rooms that could serve them best. But even during a natural evolution toward modernity, there’s no reason why the original room configurations should be obliterated altogether.
房屋不可能永远固守一种风格，这是当然。随着国民生活习惯的改变，室内设计也会不可避免地发生变迁。餐厅和佣人房本来是乔治亚式和维多利亚式住宅不可或缺的一部分，而现在则毫无必要了——除非房主是超级富豪。而有趣的是，超级富豪们拆毁的，恰恰是那些可能对他们最有用处的房间。不过，即便置身迈向现代化的自然演进过程中，我们也没有必要将历史建筑原本的格局推倒重来。
No reason except for an overpowering lust for space, as seen in the vogue for “iceberg” developments, in which houses spawn underground additions. Across London, exteriors are shrouded in fencing, to mask the subterranean extension of the white boxes deep into the city’s clay. As the architect moles burrow deeper into the ground, they must frantically build waterproofed walls to keep the water table at bay. An ancient city that has accommodated a growing population since the Romans founded Londinium 2,000 years ago can’t provide enough room for these new insatiable demands.
除非，人们对于更大的空间具有不可抗拒的占有欲。正因如此，开掘地下室的工程在世界各地蔚然成风，使得那些房屋俨然漂浮在地下水上的“冰川”。在伦敦的大街小巷，一座座白色立方体小楼的外饰被防护得严严实实，以免在房屋向地下扩建时受到损坏。建筑师向地底开挖得越深，就越需要疯狂地修筑防水墙，以免地下水渗入室内。自从2000年前罗马人建立伦迪尼姆(Londinium)以来，伦敦这座古城所承载的人口就一直在增长。但面对新富阶层无法餍足的空间占有欲，伦敦的空间终至供不应求。
Jon Hunt, founder of the Foxtons real estate company, has what amounts to his own Ferrari museum in his expanded basement in Kensington Palace Gardens, next to the new home of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge in Kensington Palace. Hans Kristian Rausing, the recovering drug addict heir to the $7 billion Tetra Pak packaging empire, convicted last year of preventing the lawful burial of his wife (he hid her body in the house for two months after her drug-related death), is planning to build himself a titanic iceberg beneath his palace in Belgravia, the heart of upmarket London. He is adding two underground floors, with 1,594 square feet of new space, to include a swimming pool, cigar lounge, wine cellar, elevator, cinema and a plant room with a rainwater harvesting tank. Rausing’s mansion already combined two five-story 19th-century town houses and three connected mews buildings. You’d have thought that would be enough room, what with staff quarters, courtyard, ballroom and garages for seven cars. But, no — like Hamlet, the rich yearn for infinite space.
乔恩·亨特(Jon Hunt)是Foxtons房地产公司的创始人。他在自己位于肯辛顿宫花园（Kensington Palace Gardens，伦敦中西部的一条街道——译注）的住所内扩建了一座地下室，作为他的法拉利汽车博物馆。亨特的住所隔壁，就是剑桥公爵及公爵夫人在肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)中的新居。而正在戒毒的瘾君子汉斯·克里斯蒂安·劳辛(Hans Kristian Rausing)是价值70亿美元（约合人民币426亿元）的利乐公司(Tetra Pak)包装帝国的继承人。去年，他因侵犯亡妻的合法安葬权利被定罪（妻子吸毒暴死后，他将其尸体在屋内藏匿了两个月）。此人在伦敦高级住宅区贝尔葛蕾维亚(Belgravia)的中心地带拥有一座豪宅，眼下正打算在豪宅内开挖一座巨大的地下空间。空间分为两层，新增面积将达1594平方英尺（约合148平方米），其中将包含泳池、吸烟室、酒窖、电梯、影院、以及一处带有雨水收集缸的机房。目前，劳辛的豪宅已包含两栋19世纪的五层联排别墅，以及三栋由马厩改建的、彼此相连的公寓楼，其中佣人房、庭院、舞厅以及能停放七辆车的车库一应俱全。你肯定会觉得这样的豪宅已经足够大了；但是，有钱的房主并不这么想，他就像哈姆雷特一样，热切地渴望占有无穷无尽的空间。
In the end, even infinite space isn’t enough. It must be the kind of new space that eats away at the old, and compromises what ancient fragments it leaves behind. Often the only old thing that survives these restless, ruthless renovations is the Potemkin facade of the period building, preserved by planning regulations, as everything else is torn down around it. Recently, in gilt-edged Notting Hill, one such fragile shell finally did not have enough left to hold it up. It collapsed in a cloud of dust.
到头来，就连无穷无尽的空间也是不够的。老建筑一定会被新拓出的空间渐渐蚕食，只剩一具空壳。经过这些无休无止、丧心病狂的改建，唯一幸存下来的老东西，往往只剩那个受到规划条例保护的、“海市蜃楼”（原文是Potemkin，源于一个典故。1787年，俄国叶卡捷琳娜女皇出访Potemkin元帅所辖的乌克兰和克里米亚半岛地区。因克里米亚半岛在土俄战争中饱受蹂躏，到处残破不堪。为取悦女皇，Potemkin元帅沿第聂伯河岸用木板建造了许多精美的房子，远远望去非常漂亮，但其背后却是满目疮痍。后来西方人就把“面子工程”称为“Potemkin Village”——译注）般的外立面；而除此之外的一切都被拆卸一空。近日，在纸醉金迷的有钱人聚居的诺丁山(Notting Hill)，一座这样的老宅空壳终因内部没有足够支撑而轰然倒塌了。