Atticus Lish has won the 2015 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction for his first novel, “Preparation for the Next Life.” The book, which takes place mostly in the outer reaches of Queens, is about the relationship between Zou Lei, an undocumented Chinese Muslim immigrant, and Skinner, a traumatized veteran of three tours in Iraq.
阿提克斯·利什(Atticus Lish)凭自己的第一部小说《为来生的准备》(Preparation for the Next Life)获得2015年笔会/福克纳小说奖(PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction)。这本书大部分发生在皇后区的外围地带，讲述没有证件的华裔穆斯林移民邹蕾（Zou Lei，音译）与三次前往伊拉克、备受创伤的老兵斯金纳(Skinner)之间的故事。
The novel was published in November by the small independent press Tyrant Books to widespread critical praise. In his review in The New York Times, Dwight Garner wrote that the novel is “unlike any American fiction I’ve read recently in its intricate comprehension of, and deep feeling for, life at the margins.” He continued: “At its knotty core, amazingly, is perhaps the finest and most unsentimental love story of the new decade.”
这本小说去年11月由小型独立出版社Tyrant Books出版，赢得了评论界的广泛赞美。德怀特·加纳(Dwight Garner)在《纽约时报》发表的书评上写道，这部小说“和我最近读到的任何美国小说都不一样，它对于边缘人的生活怀有复杂的理解与深切的情感”。他还说，“令人惊异的是，在它盘根错节的核心，或许包含着这个十年里最优美、最不动声色的爱情故事。”
Mr. Lish, the son of Gordon Lish, a famed magazine and book editor, said in an email interview that winning prizes was not on his mind while writing the novel. “I didn’t really know that books win awards,” he said. “Yes, I’d seen the gold emblems on some of my favorite books, but it just wasn’t on my radar.”
利什先生是著名杂志与图书编辑戈登·利什(Gordon Lish)的儿子，在接受电子邮件采访时，他说，在创作这本小说时并没有想着获奖的事。“我其实根本不知道书也能得奖，”他说，“没错，我见过有些喜欢的书里印着金色徽章，但完全没有留意过。”
Asked what critics admired in his book, Mr. Lish said, “I don’t feel that’s for me to say.” He said he doesn’t read much new fiction, and takes inspiration from music, television and movies as well as books. “In training to write, I was drawn to Hemingway, Dos Passos, Flaubert, Tolstoy and the Bible,” he said. “Maybe there’s a throwback thing that people are getting into. It’s like hemlines probably. They were short for a while, and now people are ready for them to be long again. Could that be it? It’s really nice to see, though. I can’t believe it.”
谈到评论家对这本书的赞美，利什说，“我觉得自己不应该谈这些。”他说，他并没读过很多新近出版的小说，他本人既从书本中获得灵感，也从音乐、电视与电影中得到灵感。“在学习写作的时候，我喜欢海明威、多斯·帕索斯(Dos Passos)、福楼拜、托尔斯泰与《圣经》。”他说，“也许是我书中那种复古的气息吸引了人们。可能和裙子长度的流行差不多，短裙流行过一阵，现在人们又喜欢长裙了。是这样吗？不过这确实很好。我真不敢相信。”
Mr. Lish’s honor comes with $15,000. The four other finalists, who each receive $5,000, are Jeffery Renard Allen for “Song of the Shank” (Graywolf Press); Jennifer Clement for “Prayers for the Stolen” (Hogarth); Emily St. John Mandel for “Station Eleven” (Alfred A. Knopf); and Jenny Offill for “Dept. of Speculation” (Alfred A. Knopf).
利什还获得了1.5万美元奖金。其余四名最终入围者分别获得5000美元奖金。其余入围小说分别是杰弗里·莱纳德·艾伦(Jeffery Renard Allen)的《尚克之歌》(Song of the Shank, Graywolf Press)、詹妮弗·克莱门特(Jennifer Clement)的《为被窃之物的祈祷》(Prayers for the Stolen, Hogarth)、艾米莉·圣约翰·曼德尔(Emily St. John Mandel)的《11号车站》(Station Eleven, Alfred A. Knopf)与詹尼·奥菲尔(Jenny Offill)的《思考部》(Dept. of Speculation, Alfred A. Knopf)。