LONDON — Known for ambitious plans in China for business parks the size of cities, Xu Weiping says he cannot wait to start work on his first project abroad: turning an abandoned London dock into Europe’s main hub for Chinese companies.
伦敦——在中国，许为平因为雄心勃勃的计划而得名，这些项目开发的都是规模堪比城市的商务区。许为平说，他简直等不及开建他的首个海外项目了，该项目将把一处废弃的伦敦码头区变成中国公司在欧洲的主要门户。
“I’m a man with a vision and the ability to turn my dream into reality,” said Mr. Xu, dressed in a yellow-and-white Versace shirt, a black velvet jacket and patent-leather shoes with gold buckles.
“我是一个独具慧眼、有能力把梦想变成现实的人，”许为平说。他穿着一件黄白配色的范思哲(Versace)衬衣，外加一件黑色的天鹅绒西服上装，脚上是饰有金色搭扣的漆皮皮鞋。
Mr. Xu last year agreed to invest $1.6 billion to turn London’s derelict Royal Albert Dock back into a vibrant global trading hub. But instead of ships he is betting on Chinese companies that are seeking a foothold in Europe.
去年，许为平达成协议，斥资16亿美元（约合100亿元人民币），把荒废的伦敦皇家艾伯特码头重新变回生机盎然的全球贸易中心。不过，他没有把赌注押在船运上，而是押在了到欧洲寻找立足点的中国公司上面。
Mr. Xu said that more than 60 Chinese businesses, many already tenants of his empire in China, have signed up to take space in the development, about nine miles east of London’s city center. Construction on what is planned as 4.5 million square feet of office space, to be done in phases through 2022, could start as soon as this summer.
许为平说，有60多家中国企业已经签署了进驻该商务区的协议，其中的许多企业都是他在中国的开发项目的租户。这片商务区位于伦敦市中心以东约九英里（约14公里）处，施工最快将在今年夏天开始。按照规划，这里将建造450万平方英尺（约合42万平方米）的办公区，将分阶段施工，持续到2022年。
The plan has the backing of Mayor Boris Johnson, who welcomed the investment. Lying untouched since the dock closed in 1981, a hundred years after they were built for ships too big to dock farther up the Thames, the site is one of the largest undeveloped areas in London and as such has been a major headache for the city.
这个计划得到了伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)的支持和欢迎。当年修建这座码头是为了停靠因吨位太大而无法进入泰晤士河上游河段的船只。百年之后，这座码头在1981年关闭，自此无人问津。它是伦敦面积最大的未开发区域之一，正因为如此，一直是该市的一个大麻烦。
Despite the initial investment, questions remain as to whether the project will succeed. Other plans for the area have failed, and some officials question how many local jobs the Chinese investment will create. Alex Foshay, a partner at the real estate agency Knight Frank in London, said he did not think Mr. Xu would have any problem filling office space. Rising demand from tenants as Britain’s economy recovers, combined with a backlog of planned developments, is pushing up rents and creating a shortage of supply, he said.
虽然获得了初期投资，该项目是否能成功却依然存疑。开发这里的其他计划都失败了，而且一些官员质疑，中国人的投资能给当地创造多少就业岗位。伦敦房地产中介企业莱坊公司(Knight Frank)的合伙人埃里克斯·福谢伊(Alex Foshay)称，他认为许为平要填满办公区不会遇到任何困难。他说，由于英国经济出现复苏，租户的需求在上涨，再加上规划的开发项目出现积压，二者正在合力推高租金，并导致供应短缺。
Standing on the Docklands Light Railway platform at the Royal Albert Dock station, it is hard to imagine that the windswept patches of grass, parking lots and concrete walkways below could one day be a bustling business center with restaurants, residences and a hotel.
站在码头区轻轨的皇家艾伯特码头车站的站台上，人们难以想象，下方大片在风中摇曳的杂草、停车场和混凝土人行道，有朝一日会变成一座汇聚了餐厅、住宅楼和酒店的繁华的商务中心。
The area benefits from a large waterfront, an advantage when attracting Chinese companies because of its importance in feng shui, which holds that water can help the flow of energy. It is also a 10-minute train ride to the Canary Wharf financial district — its skyscrapers standing as sentinels to a new wave of vertical development dotting the London landscape.
大面积的滨水区让这片区域获益匪浅，因为水景在风水学里极其重要，这让它成了吸引中国公司的一大优势。风水学认为，水有助于输送吉气。从这里乘火车到金丝雀码头金融区也只要10分钟——那里摩天大楼高耸，构成了伦敦风景线里的新一波高层开发项目。
Mr. Xu’s business park is unlikely to face much opposition from neighbors, mainly because there are none. The existing residential developments are separated from the site by a busy highway, and many residents would welcome anything that would bring restaurants and stores to the area.
许为平的商务区不太可能遭到社区的反对，主要原因是这片区域没有居民。一条繁忙的公路把现存的住宅区和园区分隔开了。对许多居民来说，只要能把餐馆和商店吸引到这里来，他们对任何项目都会拱手相迎。
“It’s wasteland now, so it can only get better,” said Kelly Newsome, who has lived in the area for more than four years. “If the project will create jobs and inject money into the area, that would be very welcome.”
已经在这里住了四年多的凯利·纽瑟姆 (Kelly Newsome)说，“这里目前就是一片荒地，所以它只会变得更好。如果这个项目能创造就业，给当地注入资金，它就会大受欢迎。”
Mayor Johnson has said that Mr. Xu’s plan would eventually add 6 billion pounds, or about $10 billion, to the British economy and turn what was once one of “the throbbing arteries of U.K. trade and commerce” into “a world-class international business district.”
约翰逊市长表示，许为平的计划最终将给英国经济增加60亿英镑，约合610亿元人民币的产值，并将把“曾经生机勃勃的英国商贸命脉”之一变成“一片世界级的国际商务区”。
Mr. Xu said his company, Advanced Business Park, would provide 30 percent of the $1.6 billion investment to construct offices and public and retailing spaces. The rest would come from investors, banks and the presale of office units. The government plans to sell Mr. Xu the 35 acres of the Royal Albert Dock, though the sale price was not disclosed. The development, being in what is now a derelict zone, is eligible for tax advantages.
许为平称，他的公司总部基地将提供16亿美元投资中30%的资金，用于建造办公区、公共区和零售区。其余资金将由投资者、银行和办公区的预售收入提供。政府计划把皇家艾伯特码头的35英亩（约合14公顷）土地卖给许为平，不过，双方没有公布售价。鉴于所处的地段目前是荒废区，该项目有资格享受税收优惠。
But some of Mr. Johnson’s critics have branded the project the latest example of what they see as his willingness to sell parts of London to the highest bidder too easily. Just west of the Royal Albert Dock, Mr. Johnson struck a sponsorship deal with the airline Emirates for a cable car across the Thames in 2012 and secured funds from Abu Dhabi for the ExCeL London conference center in 2008.
不过，约翰逊的一些批评者已经把这个项目视为最新的例子。在他们看来，这些例子表明，他愿意把伦敦的部分区域轻易地卖给出价最高的投标商。2012年，约翰逊和阿联酋航空公司(Emirates)达成了赞助协议，为跨泰晤士河的缆车提供赞助。这些缆车就在皇家艾伯特码头以西不远处。2008年，他从阿布扎比筹措了建造ExCeL伦敦会展中心的资金。
The Financial Times reported last year that questions were raised in China about the source of Mr. Xu’s finances for his developments and his links to the Chinese government.
《金融时报》(Financial Times)于去年报道，在中国，许为平旗下开发项目的资金来源，以及他与中国政府的关系受到了质疑。
In an interview, Mr. Xu dismissed accusations of close government ties and said he made his money designing knitting machines and other appliances before setting up his real estate company.
在一次采访中，许为平断然否认与政府有紧密关系，并且表示自己通过设计纺织机等设备起家，而后创建了地产公司。
Advanced Business Park owns a business complex in Beijing and has two similar projects under construction. An additional project in Hangzhou Bay, close to Shanghai, is planned to be the size of central London, including a green space the size of Hyde Park.
总部基地在北京拥有一处综合商务区，并有两个类似的项目处于建设阶段。此外，按照规划，上海附近的杭州湾项目的规模堪比伦敦市中心，其中包括与海德公园一般大小的一片绿地。
Mr. Xu’s London plan is by far his smallest, but it comes with challenges. The engines from the airplanes taking off and landing at London City Airport just across the water interrupt any calm the waterfront might create. The council of the borough of Newham, which is in charge of the area, has imposed strict rules about a timetable for the construction and how many local jobs the project must create. Previous projects for the area, which included a floating village, failed because they fell afoul of local rules and ran short of developer financing.
许为平的伦敦项目是他迄今开发的规模最小的项目，却面临着重重挑战。一水之隔就是伦敦城市机场，如果说水景会带来什么安宁的话，起降飞机的引擎声则会大煞风景。掌管这片区域的纽汉区政府已对建设时间表和该项目必须创造出的当地就业岗位数设置了严格限制。这一地区之前的项目，比如一个水上社区，就因为不符合地方规定及开发商资金短缺而以失败告终。
Sitting in his temporary office in the Royal Albert Dock, in a former storage space designed to keep beef shipments from Argentina dry and cool, Mr. Xu seemed unfazed. Speaking through an interpreter, he said he was not worried about Britain’s bureaucratic hoops to gain building permission.
许为平的临时办公室位于皇家艾伯特码头，以前是用来保障阿根廷进口的牛肉保持干燥清凉的仓库。坐在办公室的他泰然自若。通过口译员的协助，他表示自己并不担心获取建筑许可所要经历的种种繁琐的官僚程序。
“There is more structure in the U.K. system,” he said with a smile. “But the council of Newham is adapting to our speed.”
“英国的体系里有更多的层次，”他笑着说。“不过，纽汉区政府正在配合我们的速度。”
Mr. Xu said his company expected to get planning permission in the coming months and to start construction of the business park this year.
许为平称，公司希望在未来几个月里获得规划许可，并于今年内开始商务区的建设工作。
Patricia Holland, a member of the Newham council, said Mr. Xu’s planning application was getting a good reception. Newham, a relatively poor borough that has been struggling to reduce unemployment, said it expected the project to create 20,000 jobs and increase employment locally by 30 percent. Some residents have questioned whether the new Chinese neighbors will indeed seek to employ local staff members without any Mandarin language skills.
纽汉区政府官员帕特里夏·霍兰(Patricia Holland)表示，许为平的规划申请反映良好。纽汉区相对较穷，一直挣扎于降低失业率。该区表示，希望他的计划能创造出2万个就业岗位，并将当地的就业率提升30%。一些居民质疑，中国新邻居是否真想雇佣不具备任何普通话技能的当地员工？
But Ms. Holland also said residents were excited that the project would turn into “something that has more soul because people will care more about it, just like Canary Wharf.”
然而，霍兰称，当地民众颇为振奋，认为该项目会变成“富有内涵的东西，因为人们会真心投入，就像金丝雀码头一样。”
Chinese companies that pledged to take offices in the Royal Albert Dock include Eve Fashion Group, a male fashion brand; China Water Group, a water and sewage treatment provider; and Guangyao Oriental Group, a real estate development company.
承诺入驻皇家艾伯特码头的中国企业包括：经营男装品牌的依文集团、提供给排水服务的中国水务集团，以及地产开发商光耀东方集团。
Even if the project goes ahead as planned, such regenerations can take decades to be successful, said Michael Edwards, a senior lecturer at the Bartlett School of Planning of University College London.
伦敦大学学院巴特雷特规划学院(Bartlett School of Planning of University College London)的高级讲师迈克尔·爱德华兹(Michael Edwards)认为，就算项目依照计划进行，这样的蜕变也要历经几十年才能成功。
Canary Wharf’s initial developers went bankrupt in the commercial real estate collapse of the 1990s. It took decades and large sums of government investment to improve transportation links to attract the global businesses that now provide more than 100,000 jobs.
金丝雀码头最初的开发商在上世纪90年代的商业地产泡沫破裂中破了产。改善该地的交通网耗费了数十年时间和大量的政府投资，最终才吸引了全球企业入驻，并在今天贡献出逾10万个就业岗位。
Mr. Xu said he was attracted to the Royal Albert Dock because it fit with his company’s strategy of acquiring land just outside major city centers. As cities grow, the properties will eventually become part of them, he said. His hope is that Canary Wharf will eventually expand eastward and link up with the Royal Albert Dock.
许为平表示，他之所以被皇家艾伯特码头吸引，是因为这里符合在大城市中心边缘购地的公司理念。他说，随着城市的扩张，这些地产迟早会纳入其中。他希望，金丝雀码头能东扩，最终与皇家艾伯特码头连成一片。
But he said he was also attracted by the history of the site and the link the docks established between Europe and Asia. The Royal Albert Dock opened in 1880 and included warehouses and granaries that lined the quays, storing imported goods before they were delivered farther into London.
不过，他也表示，吸引自己的还有当地的历史，以及码头建立起来的欧亚之间的联系。皇家艾伯特码头于1880年开设港埠，沿岸建有货仓和谷仓。进口商品运送至伦敦城内前，会在这里储藏。
The docks survived heavy bombing by the Germans during World War II but succumbed to transportation innovation when merchants started using larger container vessels that no longer entered the docks. The docks finally shut in 1981.
码头躲过了二战期间德国人的狂轰滥炸，但没能抵挡住运输业的革新。商人们开始采用大型集装箱货轮，不再在码头停留。皇家艾伯特码头最终于1981年停业。
A history buff, Mr. Xu said he was seeking to revive the dock’s importance.
许为平自称是历史迷，希望复兴这个码头。
“In the 19th century, the docks were an important trading connection between Asia and the U.K., and it made a good contribution to the economy of Europe,” he said. “There is a new, highly educated generation of Chinese people now, and through this generation we can bring together the cultures of the West and East.”
“19世纪的时候，这里的码头是连接亚洲和英国的重要贸易枢纽，曾经对欧洲经济做出过巨大贡献，”他说。“现在有了新一代受到良好教育的中国人。通过这一代人，我们可以让中西文化融会贯通。”