The Brooklyn district attorney’s office announced on Wednesday that it would not seek prison time for the former New York City police officer convicted last month in the fatal shooting of an unarmed man in a housing project in East New York.
驻布鲁克林的联邦地区检察官办公室周三宣布，不寻求让上月被判有罪的前纽约市警察入狱。去年，这名前警察在纽约东部的一栋楼里开枪打死了一名未携带武器的男子。
In a statement, the district attorney, Ken Thompson, said the case was about “justice and not about revenge,” and urged that the former officer, Peter Liang, receive five years of probation, including six months of home confinement, when he is sentenced next month.
在一份声明中，地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)称该案的主旨是“正义而非复仇”，并主张下月量刑时，判处彼得·梁(Peter Liang)缓刑五年，包括半年的在家监禁。
Mr. Liang, 28, who was convicted of second-degree manslaughter, could be sentenced to as much as 15 years in prison.
28岁的彼得·梁被判二级过失杀人罪名成立，最高可能被判处15年监禁。
“Mr. Liang has no prior criminal history and poses no future threat to public safety,” Mr. Thompson said. “Because his incarceration is not necessary to protect the public, and due to the unique circumstances of this case, a prison sentence is not warranted.”
“彼得·梁之前没有犯罪记录，将来也不会对公众安全构成威胁，”汤普森说。“因为监禁他并非保护公众的必要措施，并且因为本案情况特殊，因此无需判处监禁。”
The statement, which was accompanied by a formal sentencing letter filed with the court, is only a recommendation to Justice Danny K. Chun of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, who presided over Mr. Liang’s trial and is scheduled to sentence the former officer on April 14.
这份声明只是给位于布鲁克林的州最高法院(State Supreme Court)法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)提出的建议。作为彼得·梁一案的主审法官，田法官定于4月14日对这名前警察宣判。随声明一同提交给法院的还有一份正式的量刑建议书。
The announcement by Mr. Thompson’s office stirred the emotions and divisions that have marked the case.
汤普森办公室的声明，又一次搅动起围绕该案产生的激愤和分歧。
Mr. Liang and his partner were on patrol in a stairwell in the Louis H. Pink Houses on Nov. 20, 2014, when Mr. Liang’s gun fired and a ricocheting bullet struck and killed Akai Gurley, a 28-year-old black man who was visiting his girlfriend.
2014年11月20日，彼得·梁在与同事在路易斯·H·平克公屋(Louis H. Pink Houses)的楼梯间巡逻时开枪。弹跳的子弹击中黑人男子阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)，并导致28岁的格利死亡。格利到那里是为了看望女朋友。
The killing of Mr. Gurley came barely four months after an another unarmed black man, Eric Garner, died in a confrontation with police officers on Staten Island, and the two deaths pulled New York into a national debate over race and the criminal justice system. At the same time, the indictment and prosecution of Mr. Liang, who is of Chinese heritage, created an uproar among Chinese-American residents of the city who said he was being made a scapegoat for larger problems in American policing.
格利被杀时，斯塔顿岛另一名手无寸铁的黑人男子埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)在与警方对峙时死亡一事，刚过去四个月。两起死亡事件，让纽约陷入了关于种族和刑事司法体系的一场全国性讨论。与此同时，由于彼得·梁是华裔，他被起诉一事在该市的华裔美国人中引发了骚动。他们认为，美国警察执法中存在更严重的问题，彼得·梁只是替罪羊。
A little more than more than a year after Mr. Gurley’s death, a state grand jury indicted Mr. Liang on charges that included manslaughter. He was convicted on Feb. 11, and subsequently fired by the Police Department.
格利去世一年出头，州大陪审团对彼得·梁提起诉讼，罪名包括过失杀人。2月11日，彼得·梁被判罪名成立，随后被纽约警局除名。
On Wednesday, Mr. Gurley’s family denounced the prosecutor’s decision.
周三当天，格利的家人对检察官的决定表示谴责。
“We are outraged at District Attorney Thompson’s inadequate sentencing recommendation,” the family said in a statement released by Mandela Jones of Communities United for Police Reform. “Officer Liang was convicted of manslaughter and should serve time in prison for his crime. This sentencing recommendation sends the message that police officers who kill people should not face serious consequences.”
“我们为地区检察官汤普森做出这种不恰当的量刑建议感到愤慨，”格利的家人在通过警务改革社区联盟(Communities United for Police Reform)的曼德拉·琼斯(Mandela Jones)发布的一份声明中表示。“梁警员已被判处过失杀人罪，就该为他犯下的罪行在监狱里服刑。这种量刑建议释放出的信号是，警察杀人不会承担严重的后果。”
In a statement, Mr. Liang’s lawyers, Paul Shechtman and Gabriel Chin, said, “Although we disagree with Mr. Thompson on the fundamental issue of Peter Liang’s culpability, he deserves praise for his dispassionate and courageous decision that incarceration is not called for in this case.”
梁警员的律师保罗·谢克特曼(Paul Shechtman)和加布里埃尔·陈(Gabriel Chin)在声明中表示，“尽管在彼得·梁是否有罪这一根本问题上，我们与汤普森意见不一，但他对此案做出无需判处监禁这种客观公正和充满勇气的量刑建议，值得受到称赞。”
In his sentencing letter, Mr. Thompson wrote that Mr. Liang’s actions had “tragic and irreparable consequences,” but he also noted that there was no evidence that Mr. Liang had intended to kill or even injure Mr. Gurley.
汤普森在他的量刑建议书中写道，彼得·梁的行为造成了“无可挽回的悲剧性后果”，但他也指出，没有证据表明梁是有意杀害，甚或有意伤害格利。
Scott Rynecki, a lawyer for Kimberly Ballinger, Mr. Gurley’s domestic partner, said that while the district attorney’s office had been able to do what others rarely had — obtain the conviction of a police officer in the fatal shooting of an innocent man — the recommendation for no prison time did not diminish the “message that police are going to be held accountable for committing a wrongful act.”
格利的伴侣金伯利·巴林杰(Kimberly Ballinger)的律师斯考特·赖恩基(Scott Rynecki)表示，布鲁克林地区检察官办公室做到了其他机构很少能做到的事——让枪击致一名无辜男子死亡的警察被绳之以法——但无需判处监禁的量刑建议，不会削弱“警察会因做出不法行为被追责这一讯息。”
“He’s still asking for a significant sentence,” Mr. Rynecki said of Mr. Thompson.
“他还是在请求做出一个意义重大的判决，”赖恩基这样评价汤普森。
Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, the city’s main police union, said the case against Mr. Liang should not have been brought in the first place. “The reasons cited by the D.A. for justifying no jail time in this tragedy are the very same reasons that the officer should not have been indicted,” Mr. Lynch said.
纽约主要的警察工会巡警福利协会(Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association)的会长帕特里克·林奇(Patrick Lynch)表示，彼得·梁从一开始就不该被起诉。“地区检察官所说的梁警员不该因这出悲剧被判处监禁的理由，正是他当初不该被起诉的原因，”林奇说。
Edward Mullins, president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association, who had also disagreed with Mr. Thompson for seeking an indictment of Mr. Liang, said the decision not to seek jail time was correct.
警佐福利协会(Sergeants Benevolent Association)会长爱德华·马林斯(Edward Mullins)也不赞同汤普森对彼得·梁提起诉讼。他表示，不判处监禁的建议是正确的。
“Of course, Officer Liang shouldn’t be in jail,” Mr. Mullins said in a statement. “He never should have been convicted.”
“梁警员当然不该入狱，”马林斯在一份声明中表示。“他根本就不该被定罪。”
Lumumba Akinwole-Bandele, a senior organizer for the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund who attended much of the trial, said he was disappointed by Mr. Thompson’s decision and concerned about “the devaluation of black and brown lives.”
全美有色人种协进会法律辩护与教育基金(NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund)的资深组织者卢蒙巴·埃金沃莱-班德尔(Lumumba Akinwole-Bandele)旁听了该案的许多法庭审讯。他表示对汤普森的建议感到失望，也担心这会“让黑人的命更不值钱”。
“I think if the shoe were on the other foot” — if a civilian had accidentally killed a police officer — “it would be highly unlikely we would having this conversation,” Mr. Akinwole-Bandele said.
“我认为，如果情况反过来”——一个平民不小心杀死了一名警察——“就不太会有我们现在进行的这个谈话了，”埃金沃莱-班德尔说。
That sentiment was echoed by Johnetta Elzie, a founder of Campaign Zero, an advocacy group affiliated with the Black Lives Matter movement, which focuses on ending police violence. “Could you imagine a sentence or recommendation for a regular civilian?” Ms. Elzie asked. “Or if Akai had shot and killed Peter? Skewed is not a strong enough word for what happened today.”
“黑人的命也是命”(Black Lives Matter)旗下的倡导组织“零运动”(Campaign Zero)创始人之一约内塔·埃尔齐(Johnetta Elzie)也有同样的感受。该组织一直致力于结束警察暴力。“你觉得他们会为一个普通平民做出这种判决或建议吗？”埃尔齐反问。“或者说，如果是阿凯开枪杀死了彼得呢？偏向这个词都不足以形容今天发生的这种事。”
Ms. Elzie then added: “This is not what justice looks like.”
埃尔齐接着说，“公正的做法可不是这个样子的。”
Many in the city’s Chinese-American community applauded the decision.
纽约的华裔社区有不少人对这一量刑建议表示赞许。
“I am very pleased with the tone of Ken Thompson’s statement,” said Douglas Lee, a member of the Greater New York Coalition for Supporting Peter Liang. “Right now I just hope that the judge makes sure that this young man does not get punished for an accident.”
“肯·汤普森在声明中的口吻让我很欣慰，”声援彼得·梁大纽约联合会(Greater New York Coalition for Supporting Peter Liang)的成员道格拉斯·李(Douglas Lee)说道。“现在我只希望，法官会确保这名年轻人不会为一个意外事故而受罚。”
New York police officers are rarely indicted by grand juries, much less put on trial, for deaths they cause in the line of duty. The most recent officer to be convicted of a line-of-duty killing was Bryan Conroy, who in 2005 was found guilty of criminally negligent homicide in the fatal shooting of an unarmed African immigrant, Ousmane Zongo. In that case, a State Supreme Court judge sentenced Officer Conroy to five years of probation, a sentence similar to what Mr. Thompson recommended for Mr. Liang.
纽约市的警察，很少会因在履行职责时致人死亡而被大陪审团指控，因之受审的更是屈指可数。最近一个被定罪的警员是布赖恩·康罗伊(Bryan Conroy)。因开枪致手无寸铁的非洲移民奥斯曼·宗戈(Ousmane Zongo)死亡，他在2005年被判过失杀人罪。在那起案件中，州最高法院的一名法官判处康罗伊警员五年缓刑，这与汤普森建议给彼得·梁的量刑类似。
From the start, there was intense pressure on Mr. Thompson to pursue some sort of legal action against Mr. Liang, in part because the case came after a Staten Island grand jury declined to indict Officer Daniel Pantaleo in Mr. Garner’s death.
从一开始，汤普森就背负着巨大的压力，要对梁采取某种法律措施，部分原因在于，就在这起案件之前，斯塔腾岛的大陪审团并没有就加尔内的死亡，对丹尼尔·潘塔莱奥(Daniel Pantaleo)警员提起诉讼。
After a trial in which prosecutors took great pains to present Mr. Liang’s conduct as criminal, Mr. Thompson, in his sentencing letter, struck a less harsh tone, listing several circumstances that mitigated recommending a prison term. He wrote, for example, that Mr. Liang was a rookie officer who had graduated from the Police Academy only a year before; that the stairwell he was patrolling was dark; and that he had chosen to put his own life on the line as a police officer.
在庭审过程中，检方曾煞费苦心地将彼得·梁的行为定性为刑事犯罪，现在，汤普森却在自己的量刑建议书中采用了一种相对和缓的口吻，列举了好几个可以让他提出减轻量刑建议的理由。比如，他写道，彼得·梁是一名刚从警校毕业一年的新手；他巡视的那个楼梯间灯光很暗；作为一名警员，他选择了冒着生命危险执行公务。