Just two companies are listed on the Asia Pacific Stock Exchange in Sydney, and it has to rely on its biggest Australian rival to clear and settle trades.
位于悉尼的亚太证券交易所(Asia Pacific Stock Exchange)只有两家上市公司，并且需要依靠其在澳大利亚最大的竞争对手来进行交易的清算和结算。
But that has not diminished the ambitions of George Wang, the chairman of the AIMS Financial Group, which acquired the exchange in October 2008. Mr. Wang, who arrived here from China in November 1988 as a 26-year-old English language student, hopes to capitalize on the voracious appetite for stock market listings by Chinese companies despite the recent downturn.
但这并未削弱宝泽金融集团(AIMS Financial Group)董事长王人庆(George Wang)的雄心，该集团在2008年10月收购了亚太交易所。尽管最近市场低迷，但中国公司仍有发行股票的巨大需求，他希望对此加以利用。1988年11月，26岁的王人庆一名学英语的学生的身份从中国来到澳大利亚。
Before this year’s plunge in Chinese shares, which at one stage wiped out more than $3 trillion in market value, 500 mainland Chinese companies were lined up to list on the Shanghai and Shenzhen A stock markets, according to investment bankers and fund managers in Hong Kong.
今年中国股市的暴跌，一度致使股市市值蒸发逾3万亿美元。但据香港的投行工作人员和基金经理介绍，在那之前，内地有500家公司在排队等着在上海和深圳的A股市场上市。
Now the plans of these Chinese companies are in limbo after Beijing froze initial public offerings, which were blamed for contributing to a stock market bubble. In the 12 months through May, Chinese stocks available to mainland investors soared 119 percent in Shanghai and 121 percent in Shenzhen.
但它们的计划都因为中国政府暂停新股发行陷入了困境。截止5月末，沪深两市的股票市值在12个月里分别上涨了119%和121%。北京认为大量新股发行正是造成股市泡沫的原因之一。
The stock turmoil has not curbed Mr. Wang’s optimism that his stock exchange can act as a bridge between capital-hungry Chinese companies and the $1.53 trillion in Australia’s pension funds.
股市的动荡并未影响王人庆的乐观。他认为，他的交易所能在急需资金的中国公司，以及澳大利亚1.53万亿美元的养老基金之间，充当一个桥梁。
Mr. Wang also thinks his stock market can be a tonic for the Chinese market volatility that can scare off everyday investors. In 2015, Chinese initial public offerings on average rose about 44 percent on their first day of trading, according to a banker based in Hong Kong, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Such offerings sometimes rose by their 10 percent daily limit for a few days after that.
王人庆还认为，亚太证券交易所可以成为剧烈动荡的中国股市的一剂补药，这种动荡会吓跑散户。据一名要求匿名的香港银行业者介绍，2015年，中国新股上市当日平均涨幅约为44%。有时候，这些股票会在之后几天里，每天都涨至10%的涨停上限。
“China’s market is up and down, but Asia Pacific exchange is market for long term,” said Mr. Wang, whose gregarious personality features plenty of smiles and a touch on the arm or leg of the person he speaks with.
“中国股市起起落落，但亚太证券交易所是一个长线市场，”王人庆说。他喜好与人交际，总是面带微笑，还会触碰交谈对象的胳膊或腿。
“Australia has unique position, can be important financial hub Asia Pacific,” Mr. Wang said.
“澳大利亚地位独特，可以成为亚太地区重要的金融中心，”王人庆说。
There is still a lot of work to do, though. Regulators in Australia and China have not yet approved Mr. Wang’s vision for trading renminbi-denominated stocks on the Asia Pacific Stock Exchange. And the exchange’s existing trading system, criticized as being outdated, is being replaced with the Nasdaq OMX platform.
但仍有很多工作要做。对于王人庆在亚太证券交易所，交易以人民币计价的股票的设想，澳大利亚和中国的监管机构都还没有批准。该交易所现有的交易系统曾被外界批评已经过时，目前正在替换成纳斯达克OMX集团(Nasdaq OMX)的平台。
Still, Mr. Wang expects the business to break even next year. By the end of 2017, he predicts that more than 30 companies will be trading on the exchange. Two years ago, he predicted that 200 companies would be trading on the exchange. Still, Mr. Wang has spent considerable time wooing Chinese officials and chief executives, judging by the photographs in his office at the AIMS Financial Group, which also has offices in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen.
但王人庆仍然期待明年实现盈亏持平，还预言到2017年年底会有超过30家企业在亚太证券交易所上市。但两年前，他预计的这个数字是200家。王人庆花了大量时间寻求中国官员和企业高管的垂青，这一点可以从他在宝泽金融集团的办公室里摆放的照片看出来。宝泽金融集团在北京、上海和深圳均设有办公室。
Mr. Wang, who is 53, has always seen the potential in Australia.
现年53岁的王人庆一直认为澳大利亚有潜力。
Born in Qionghai on the island of Hainan to a local government official and a stay-at-home mother, Mr. Wang studied environmental engineering at Chinese Eastern University in Shanghai, graduating in 1984. He got a job with the government in Guangdong, the Chinese province that borders Hong Kong.
王人庆出生在海南岛上的琼海，父亲是当地的一名政府官员，母亲是家庭主妇。他曾在上海的东华大学学习环境工程专业。1984年毕业后，他在与香港接壤的广东省找到了一份公务员的工作。
But Mr. Wang grew dissatisfied and restless and he looked for a new start. He decided to go to Australia where he felt there were more opportunities for him to make a mark because its smaller population meant less competition.
但后来，王人庆变得不满和烦躁，希望寻求新的开始。他决定去澳大利亚。他觉得那里机会更多，自己能做出一番成绩，因为澳大利亚人口少也就意味着竞争小。
After 12 months of English and computer courses, Mr. Wang got a job as a salesman for AMP, Australia’s biggest insurer, paid only if he persuaded people to buy an insurance or investment product. After three months without earning money, Mr. Wang put an advertisement in The Australian Chinese Daily asking Chinese immigrants if they would like to “save thousands of dollars” in taxes by investing in the country’s new pension plan. The next day he made about $15,000.
学了12个月的英语和计算机课程后，王人庆在澳大利亚最大的保险公司安保集团(AMP)找到了一份销售员的工作。但只有说服别人购买保险或投资产品后，他才有收入。他干了三个月却没赚到钱，于是在《澳洲新报》(The Australian Chinese Daily)上登了一则广告，问华人移民想不想通过投资该国新推出的养老金计划，“省下成千上万元”的税款。第二天，他就赚了大约1.5万美元。
But by 1991, Mr. Wang had tired of AMP and the spotty record of its fund managers, which made him uncomfortable when he spoke to his clients. He started AIMS.
但到了1991年，王人庆对安保集团及其基金经理时好时坏的表现感到了厌倦。这让他在面对客户时感到不安，于是他创立了宝泽金融集团。
Mr. Wang’s ready smile vanishes and his features harden when asked about AIMS’s shareholders, its annual sales and profits and his personal stake in the company. “Confidential,” is his reply.
在被问及宝泽的股东、年销售收入和利润，以及他个人在该公司的持股情况时，王人庆满面的笑容消失了，表情也变得严肃起来。他的回答是，“这是秘密。”
He is similarly tight-lipped about his personal life.
对自己的私人生活，他也同样守口如瓶。
In the few snippets that he will let slip, Mr. Wang, who became an Australian citizen in 1994, said he had been married for more than 15 years to a “wife from China.” The Wangs live with their daughter in Sydney’s exclusive eastern seaside suburb Rose Bay where Mr Wang tries as often as he can to go for ocean swims.
通过他愿意透露的只言片语，已在1994年成为澳大利亚公民的王人庆称，自己已经结婚超过15年了，太太“也来自中国”。夫妻二人和女儿现在住在悉尼东部郊外的高档海滨社区玫瑰湾。在那里，王人庆会尽可能经常地去海里游泳。
Mr. Wang says he needs just four hours of sleep, and he rises at 5 a.m. to meditate for as much as an hour. He carries and often fiddles with Buddhist prayer beads in meetings.
王人庆说他只需要睡四个小时，早上5点起床，冥想一个小时。他戴着佛珠，并常在开会时拨弄佛珠。
AIMS has arranged about $6.2 billion worth of home loans and about $2.3 billion worth of mortgage-backed securities, according to its website. The company has also raised about $770 million from foreign investors to invest in Australian real estate.
宝泽网站显示，该公司发放了价值约62亿美元的房屋贷款，发行了价值约23亿美元的按揭抵押证券。公司还从外国投资者那里筹集到了约7.7亿美元，用于投资澳大利亚的房地产。
Australia grants permanent residency to people who have at least 5 million Australian dollars, about $3.6 million, to make “complying investments in Australia.” Under Australia’s business migration program, China’s affluent immigrants have bought prime real estate, opened bank accounts and sent their children to live in their new homes in the face of an anti-corruption drive by President Xi Jinping.
澳大利亚会向花费至少500万澳元（约合360万美元）“在澳大利亚进行指定投资”的人授予永久居住权。面对中国国家主席习近平发起的反腐运动，富裕的中国移民按照澳大利亚商业移民计划的要求，购置高档房地产、开设银行账户并把孩子送去新家居住。
In 2007, Mr. Wang was having dinner with John Howard, the prime minister of Australia, who warned the group of about a dozen businessmen that Deutsche Bank, among others, was predicting a crash in the United States housing market. Mr. Wang decided to stop issuing mortgage-backed securities, thus avoiding losses that crippled other financial firms.
在2007年，王人庆同澳大利亚总理约翰·霍华德(John Howard)共进晚餐。霍华德当时警告在场的十几名商人称，德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)等机构预言，美国的房地产市场即将崩盘。于是，王人庆决定停止发行按揭抵押证券，于是免于蒙受导致其他金融机构破产的亏损。
“Important to listen to people who know more,” he simply said of his business decision.
他在谈论自己的商业决策时，只是简单地说，“听更熟悉情况的人的话是很重要的。”
The next year, Mr. Wang was among the top sponsors of Australia’s Olympic team at the Beijing Olympics, rubbing shoulders with Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who speaks Mandarin Chinese. Weeks later, he was asked if he wanted to buy the Asia Pacific Stock Exchange from the Australian stockbroker Austock just after the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
第二年，王人庆成了北京奥运会上，澳大利亚代表队最大的赞助商之一，与会说普通话的澳大利亚总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)交往密切。又过了几周，就在雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产后，有人问王人庆，想不想从澳大利亚券商Austock手里买下亚太证券交易所。
“I wanted to be bridge of Australia, Asia,” Mr. Wang said.
“我想成为澳大利亚和亚洲之间的桥梁，”王人庆说。
In May, AIMS acquired the failed stockbroker BBY, which Mr. Wang envisions as part of his growing empire.
今年5月，宝泽收购了破产的券商BBY。按照王人庆的设想，BBY将是其不断扩张的帝国中的一部分。
Mr. Wang wants to open BBY offices throughout Asia and transform BBY into an important broker of capital flows in the region as he lobbies regulators to approve his plans for the Asia Pacific Stock Exchange.
在游说监管机构批准他对亚太证券交易所的规划之时，王人庆还希望在亚洲各地设立BBY办事处，将它变成地区内一家重要的资本流动中介。