Though Phillip Lim has a reputation for keeping things low-key, this New York Fashion Week is a splashy one for the designer, who opens a new 3.1 Phillip Lim flagship store on September 10 at 48 Great Jones Street in NoHo. The 3,500-square-foot space, designed in collaboration with the London agency Campaign, features vintage furniture and artwork curated by Lim himself. Its look was inspired by Lim’s design studio, which he calls “the only space that I am offered where ideas become realized and my daydreams are romanced into realities.” The opening will also celebrate the release of a book showcasing photographs of the store in progress by the artist Bill Jacobson. Here, in honor of New York Fashion Week, the SoHo resident lists a few of his go-to things and places around town.
虽然林能平(Phillip Lim)以行事低调闻名，但在本次纽约时装周期间，这位设计师却格外引人注目。9月10日，新的3.1 Phillip Lim旗舰店在NoHo区的大琼斯街48号开业。这个空间占地3500平方英尺，由他与伦敦的Campaign公司合作设计，以复古家具的陈列和林能平本人策展的艺术品为特色。林能平曾说自己的设计工作室是“唯一能够实现自己的想法、把白日梦变成现实的地方”，这座旗舰店的外观也受他的设计工作室风格影响。该店开业之际，艺术家比尔·雅各布森(Bill Jacobson)记录本店装修过程的摄影集也同时发行。在这里，为了向纽约时装周致意，居住在SoHo区的林能平列举了自己最喜欢的几样东西和城里的几个去处。
Restaurant: “Contrary to popular belief, there is no glamour in the glory. I usually eat every meal at the studio in the buildup to the show. We have a Mexican night with takeout from La Esquina, Indian night with Tamarind, Korean night with Do Hwa and Vietnamese night with CoBa. We travel the world while staying in the same place.”
餐馆：“与大家所以为的不同，光彩耀眼的地方其实没什么吸引力。在为时装秀做准备期间，我几乎每顿饭都在工作室里吃。我们有墨西哥菜之夜，要的是La Esquina餐馆的外卖，印度菜之夜要的是Tamarind餐馆的外卖，韩国菜之夜要的是Do Hwa餐馆的外卖，越南菜之夜要的是CoBa餐馆的外卖。我们足不出户，却像在周游世界。”
R&R: “Escaping to my home in Southampton.”
休闲：“躲在我位于南安普顿家里。”
Pick-me-up:“I usually have a coffee at home and one at work, but I also like the Vietnamese coffee from Pho Bang.”
提神饮料：“我通常在家喝一杯咖啡，到办公室再喝一杯，但是我也喜欢Pho Bang餐馆的越南咖啡。”
Gadget:“I never leave home without my Harmon Kardon headphones — they are classically handsome but have the latest sound technology. The perfect combination.”
小配件：“我出门永远戴着哈曼卡顿(Harmon Kardon)耳机——它们的造型经典美观，同时又采用了最先进的音响技术，可谓完美的组合。”
Reading material: “I’m reading my company’s financial reports at the moment. I have a newfound love of cooking, so I’ve been curious about cookbooks by Rene Redzepi and Yotam Ottolenghi — although my skills are limited to grilling!”
阅读材料：“目前我正在读公司的财务报告。我最近爱上了烹饪，所以我对勒内·雷泽皮(Rene Redzepi)和尤塔姆·奥托伦吉(Yotam Ottolenghi)的食谱很感兴趣，虽然我只会做烧烤！”
Song on repeat:“I’ve been listening to ‘Queen and Wonder’ by Federico Albanese.”
重复听的歌：“最近我在听费德里科·阿尔巴内斯(Federico Albanese)的《女王与奇迹》(Queen and Wonder)。”