HONG KONG — China’s biggest manager of bad debt said on Thursday that it had attracted about $2.4 billion from eight investors, including Goldman Sachs and Warburg Pincus, before an expected initial public offering here.
香港——中国最大的坏账管理公司周四称，它已经从8名投资者处吸引了大约24亿美元（约合147亿元人民币）的投资，其中包括高盛投资(Goldman Sachs)和华平投资(Warburg Pincus)，之后公司将在香港进行IPO。
China Huarong Asset Management, the biggest of the four state-owned companies set up in the late 1990s to take bad loans off the books of the country’s biggest banks, said it sold a 20.98 percent stake to the group of Chinese and foreign investors for 14.54 billion renminbi, or about $2.36 billion, valuing Huarong at about $11 billion.
20世纪90年代晚期，中国成立了四家国有企业来清除中国最大几家银行账簿上的坏账，中国华融资产管理公司是其中规模最大的一家。公司称，它以145.4亿元人民币的价格把20.98%的股份卖给了来自中外的投资者，华融的估值约为110亿美元。
The other investors are China Life Insurance, Citic Securities, the Malaysian state investment fund Khazanah Nasional, China International Capital Corporation, the Cofco Group and Fosun International. Their individual stakes were not disclosed.
其他投资者包括中国人寿保险公司、中信证券、马来西亚国库控股公司(Khazanah Nasional)、中金公司、中粮集团和复星国际(Fosun International)。这些公司所持的具体股份尚未公布。
Huarong was established during an earlier government cleanup of the banking system as a “bad bank” to hold deadbeat loans that had been made by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China’s biggest state-owned bank by total assets.
早些时候，政府试图对银行系统进行清理，华融便于那时作为“坏账银行”成立，用来持有中国工商银行的坏账——从总资产来看，工行是中国最大的国有银行。
Huarong was restructured in 2012 in preparation for a stock market listing. It would be the second of China’s four state-asset management companies to go public, following in the footsteps of China Cinda Asset Management, which raised $2.5 billion in a Hong Kong I.P.O. in December.
为了准备上市，华融在2012年进行了重组。在中国四大国有资产管理公司中，华融将是继中国信达资产管理公司之后第二家上市的。去年12月，信达在香港的IPO中募集到了25亿美元。
Before its I.P.O., Cinda had also brought in strategic investors, selling a 16.5 percent stake in April 2012 for 10.4 billion renminbi to four strategic investors: China’s National Social Security Fund, the Swiss bank UBS, Citic Capital and the British bank Standard Chartered.
在IPO前，信达也引入了战略投资者。2012年4月，该公司向四家战略投资者出让了16.5%的股份，获资104亿元人民币。这四家战略投资者分别是全国社会保障基金理事会、瑞银(UBS)、中信资本控股有限公司和英国的渣打银行(Standard Chartered)。