The tea dumped in Boston Harbor’s party came from China. So did George Washington’s china. The Erie Canal was inspired by China’s Grand Canal. And the lure of Chinese trade spurred the building of the transcontinental railroad. (The labor force for its western segment was 80 percent Chinese.) Without Chinese exclusion laws, which by the late 19th century were severely restricting Chinese immigration, the regulations and bureaucracy that now shape immigration policy might never have arisen.
波士顿倾茶事件中倒入海里的茶叶来自中国。乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)的瓷器也来自中国。伊利运河(Erie Canal)是以中国的京杭大运河为灵感的。修建横贯美国大陆的铁路是因为中国贸易的诱惑（该铁路西段的劳动力80%是华人）。如果没有19世纪末的排华方案——该法案严格限制华人移民——可能如今移民政策的法规和官僚体系从来都不会出现。
But the narrative at the New-York Historical Society’s vigorous and imaginative new exhibition — “Chinese American: Exclusion/Inclusion” — is not just of China’s impact on United States history (which is part of the story) or of the experiences and suffering of Chinese immigrants (which is another part). It is how Chinese-American identity came to be, how immigration and discrimination were followed by recrimination and conflict, and how, finally, a people’s trials give way to celebration.
但是，纽约历史协会(New-York Historical Society)充满活力和想像力的新展览“华裔美国人：排斥/接纳”(Chinese American: Exclusion/Inclusion)讲述的不只是中国对美国历史的影响（这是展览的一个方面），也不只是中国移民的经历和遭遇（这是展览的另一个方面）。它讲述的是华裔美国人的身份是如何形成的，移民和歧视如何导致反歧视和冲突，以及对一个民族的批判最终如何演变为颂扬。
The exhibition offers, in other words, a variation on the theme of identity museums, our era’s most distinctive museum genre. For each social, ethnic and religious group — and American history has now become a history of groups — museums and exhibitions have been shaping similar stories.
换句话说，这次展览为身份博物馆主题提供了一个变种。身份博物馆是我们这个时代最独特的博物馆类型。这种博物馆和展览为每个社会、种族和宗教团体塑造了类似的故事。美国历史现在已经变成了各种团体的历史。
The society’s show is being presented in conjunction with a separate, more modest exhibition downtown, “Waves of Identity: 35 Years of Archiving,” in an institution that evolved out of these very impulses: the Museum of Chinese in America.
纽约历史协会的展览是和市中心的一个独立的、更朴素的展览协同进行的。那个展览名为“身份的浪潮：35年的档案”(Waves of Identity: 35 Years of Archiving)，在美国华人博物馆(Museum of Chinese in America)举办，该博物馆同样是在这些浪潮的推动下发展而来。
That show’s curators, Herb Tam and Yue Ma, have gathered artifacts around questions related to Chinese-American identity (“How do you become American?” or “What does it mean to be Chinese?”), explaining, along the way, how the museum arose out of 20th-century identity politics and set itself the task of preserving the ephemera of Chinatown. That museum’s permanent exhibition also surveys Chinese-American history, emphatically embracing the identity narrative.
那场展览的策展人赫布·塔姆(Herb Tam)和马岳（音译）围绕着与华裔美国人的身份相关的问题（“你是怎么变成美国人的？”或者“身为华人意味着什么？”）搜集手工艺品，同时解释该博物馆如何起源于20世纪的身份政治，并将保存唐人街的短效物收藏品作为该馆的责任。这家博物馆的长期展览探讨的也是华裔美国人的历史，主要是身份叙述。
But the historical society show breaks many of that narrative’s boundaries. The material gathered by its curator, Marci Reaven, who oversees history exhibitions at the society — working with other historians, including John Kuo Wei Tchen, a co-founder of the Museum of Chinese in America — shows almost no aspect of American life untouched.
但是纽约历史协会的展览打破了身份叙述的很多界限。该展览的策展人是该协会的历史展览主管马尔奇·里文(Marci Reaven)，她和其他历史学家一起搜集资料——包括美国华人博物馆的联合创始人陈国伟——他们收集的资料几乎涉及美国生活的各个方面。
The interactions began soon after the nation’s founding. In 1784, a boat called the Empress of China sailed from New York to Canton, bearing furs, lead, wine, 30 tons of American ginseng and Mexican silver dollars to trade for Chinese goods: porcelain, silk, tea. The Continental Congress sent along a florid letter, betraying the naïveté of a democratic nation by invoking every imaginable hierarchical title. It is addressed to: “Most serene, serene, most puissant, puissant, high, illustrious, noble, honorable, venerable, wise and prudent emperors, kings, republics, princes, dukes, earls, barons, lords, burgo-masters, counsellors, as also judges, officers, justiciaries and regents of all the good cities and places, whether ecclesiastical or secular.”
中美的交往从美国建国之初就开始了。1784年，一艘名为“中国皇后号”(Empress of China)的轮船从纽约开往广州，带着毛皮、铅、葡萄酒、30吨西洋参和墨西哥银元，以换取中国的瓷器、丝绸和茶叶。大陆会议写了一封辞藻华丽的信，用一切能想到的官僚头衔来称呼收信人，反映出这个民主国家的幼稚。信的抬头是：“致最尊贵、伟大、崇高、显赫、高贵、尊敬、英明的皇帝、国王、共和国首脑、亲王、公爵、伯爵、男爵、勋爵、行政长官、议员，以及所有美好城市和地方的法官、军官和统治者，不管是神职还是世俗职务。”
And though we are tantalized here by the portrait of Anson Burlingame (1820-70) — Lincoln appointed him minister to China; China later appointed him a consul, and he became an enlightened advocate of mutual understanding — the course of 19th-century relations was far from genteel. With China’s defeat in the two Opium Wars, it lost the power to restrict Western commerce; we see a reproduction of an opium ball as it would have been taken to China by traders, some six inches in diameter and wrapped in poppy petals.
该展览对安森·伯林盖姆(Anson Burlingame, 1820-70)的描绘非常迷人——林肯(Lincoln)任命他为中国特使；中国后来任命他为领事，他开明地主张相互理解——但是19世纪外交关系的发展过程绝不文雅。中国在两次鸦片战争中战败后，失去了限制西方贸易的权力。我们在展览中可以看到当时商人运往中国的鸦片球的复制品，它直径六英寸，包裹在罂粟花瓣里。
Another result of those wars, which opened China to proselytizing, is evident in a 34-star 1861 American flag, its stripes containing Chinese and English inscriptions; it flew on a steamboat that coursed through 1,200 miles of Chinese rivers as a Protestant American missionary distributed religious tracts.
鸦片战争战败后，中国被迫允许外国在中国传教。1861年的一面有34颗星的美国国旗便是证据，它的条纹中有汉语和英语文字。这面旗帜曾飘扬在一艘蒸汽轮船上，一位美国新教传教士曾乘坐那艘船在中国的河流上航行1200英里，分发宗教宣传手册。
Unfortunately, in this show, we then lose track of China until the 20th century. The exhibition paints with overly broad strokes here, but these political shifts affected the fortunes and opportunities of Chinese-Americans. The modern era of “normalization” is signified by two 1972 Ping-Pong paddles bearing the portraits of Richard M. Nixon and Mao Zedong, commemorating their diplomacy after the ice was broken by their countries’ table tennis matches. But what happened during this history to Chinese immigrants? From the 1850s to the 1870s, tens of thousands of Chinese mined for gold and silver and worked in the American West. According to an 1880 census, the residents of Deadwood (in what is now South Dakota) included 238 Chinese men and 15 Chinese women; among their number were cooks and miners but also a doctor, a land speculator and a barber. One in four miners during the 1860s was Chinese. And they were so successful that, in 1870, shipments of gold and silver to China were valued at $6 million.
遗憾的是，展览没有继续描述19世纪的中国。这场展览在此处的描述显然过于粗略，但这些政治变迁影响了华裔美国人的命运和机会。“邦交正常化”的现代时代是通过1972年的两个乒乓球拍来体现的，上面有理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)和毛泽东的合影，他们在庆祝两国通过乒乓球比赛打破僵局重建外交关系。但是在19世纪，华裔移民的状况如何呢？从19世纪50年代至70年代，成千上万中国人在美国西部开采金银或务工。据1880年的人口普查，戴德伍德（Deadwood，位于今天的南达科塔州）的居民中包括238名华裔男子和15名华裔女子，其中大多是厨师和矿工，但也有一名医生、一个土地投机商和一个理发师。在19世纪60年代，美国四分之一的矿工是华裔。他们做得很成功，到1870年，运往中国的金银估价在600万美元。
But this success (there were 105,000 Chinese in the United States by 1880) was accompanied by hatred and anti-Chinese riots. An 1875 law required that any Chinese woman seeking to enter the country had to prove she was not a prostitute. In 1882, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act: a law that limited Chinese immigration and was renewed in various forms until 1943, prohibiting entry to Chinese laborers while allowing students, teachers, merchants and diplomats.
但是这样的成功（到1880年美国的华裔达10.5万）带来了仇恨和反华暴动。1875年的一项法律规定，任何谋求进入美国的华裔女子必须证明自己不是妓女。1882年，美国国会通过《排华法案》(Chinese Exclusion Act)。这项限制华裔移民的法律以各种形式不断延续，直到1943年禁止华裔劳工进入美国，但是允许学生、教师、商人和外交人员进入美国。
We see an 1883 issue of a newspaper here, The Chinese American, whose name may have been the first time that term was ever used — in this case, as a provocation; its editor, Wong Chin Foo, defiantly opposed the new legislation. At the same time, lawsuits by Chinese-Americans began to attack discrimination and affirm citizenship rights.
我们在展览中看到报纸《华裔美国人》(The Chinese American)1883年的某一期。这份报纸的名字可能是这个名词首次被用于挑衅。该报编辑王清福大胆反对《排华法案》。与此同时，华裔美国人开始提起诉讼，打击歧视，维护公民权利。
The show’s central portion is a series of theatrical environments meant to evoke Angel Island: the Ellis Island of the West Coast. But no lamp is lifted beside a golden door. Because of the strictures of the Exclusion Act, many prospective immigrants were coached or took on counterfeit identities; vast numbers were held in detention barracks, at least until their immigration status could be scrutinized. Despairing, many wrote poems, . later preserved and transcribed, on the wooden walls.
这场展览的中心是一系列戏剧布景，意在重现天使岛(Angel Island)，它被称为西海岸的埃利斯岛。但是镀金的门边没有灯。因为《排华法案》的苛刻限制，很多想移民的人接受了指导或者采用假身份。很多人被困在拘留所，移民身份被审核之后才有可能离开。很多人感到绝望，在木墙上写诗，这些诗后来被保存、记录了下来。
The most touching element of the show is its simplest. A single family — ancestors of a Bronx-born Amy Chin (who is, unfortunately, not otherwise identified) — is traced over multiple generations, its history told in graphic-novel style. We see a 1940 license for Ms. Chin’s grandfather’s laundry on Lexington Avenue; a United States Army death certificate for Ms. Chin’s uncle in 1944; an account of her father and mother separated by immigration restrictions for nine years. But we also see the transformation of the Chins into an American family; they return to visit their ancestral home as tourists.
展览最感人的部分正是它最简单的部分。它用图画小说的形式追溯了一个家庭几代人的历史——布朗克斯出生的艾米·金（Amy Chin，遗憾的是我们不知道她的其他情况）的祖先。我们看到1940年金的祖父在莱克星顿大道开设洗衣房的许可证；1944年美国军队给金的叔叔的死亡证明；金的父母因移民限制分居九年的故事。但我们也看到金氏一家转变为美国家庭，回到祖先的故居参观。
With a more pointed political edge, this transformation can be seen in the Museum of Chinese in America’s exhibition: traces left by multiple lives, wrestling with the development of an identity that had never before existed. (It is also worth seeing an exhibition of the artworks of Phillip Chen there: He distills his personal history into symbolic blueprints, mysterious and allusive, as if constructing an identity from artifacts and fragments.)
美国华人博物馆的展览也表现了这种转变，不过具有更尖锐的政治锋芒：很多人要努力应付之前从不存在的一个身份，在这个过程中留下种种印迹（这里还有菲利普·郑[Phillip Chen]的艺术作品展，值得一看：他把自己的个人经历浓缩为象征性的蓝图，神秘而有寓意，好像是用手工艺品和碎片构建了一个身份）。
But I wish that the historical society’s identity narrative had been given an even wider perspective. This narrative has become so dominant in the museum world, partly to replace old “melting pot” accounts of immigration; it was also meant to modify the idealization of American history.
不过我希望纽约历史协会的身份叙述能有更广阔的视角。这种叙述已经在博物馆界取得了主导地位，一方面是为了取代过去将移民描绘为“熔炉”的说法；另一方面也是为了修改过去对美国历史的理想化描述。