Fay Chiang, whose quest to understand her identity as a child of Chinese immigrants found outlets in vivid poetry and in community activism that helped elevate Asian-American education and culture, died on Oct. 20 in a hospice in the Bronx. She was 65.
蒋慧萍(Fay Chiang)渴望理解自己作为华人移民后裔的身份，为此致力于有着鲜活表达的诗歌，以及帮助推动亚裔美国人文化教育事业的社区行动。她于10月20日在布朗克斯的一家临终关怀医院去世，享年65岁。
Her daughter Xian Chiang-Waren said the cause was complications of cancer. She had lived in Manhattan, in the East Village, until the cancer spread to her brain.
她女儿显·蒋-沃伦（Xian Chiang-Waren，音）说她死于癌症并发症。她生前生活在曼哈顿东村，直到癌症转移至大脑。
Ms. Chiang’s poetry — sometimes serene, sometimes angry and sometimes written in all lowercase letters — reflected her anxieties as a first-generation Chinese-American, her desire to etch Asian culture into American society, her involvement with organizations in Chinatown and on the Lower East Side, and her multiple reckonings with breast cancer over nearly a quarter-century.
蒋慧萍的诗歌——有时平静，有时愤怒，有时全以小写字母写就——反映了她作为第一代华裔美国人的焦虑、她把亚洲文化融入美国社会的渴望、她对唐人街和下东区(Lower East Side)一些团体的参与，以及她在近四分之一个世纪里与乳腺癌的抗争。
She wrote about white friends and classmates who would not invite her into their homes because she was Chinese, the fourth-grade teacher who mocked her intention to write a poem, and the grandmother who admonished her for not being a boy. Her three volumes of poetry included “7 Continents 9 Lives” (2010).
她在诗中写过因为她是华人而不愿邀请她去家里的白人朋友和同学，嘲笑她竟然想要写诗的四年级老师，还有烦恼于她不是男孩的祖母。她著有三本诗集，其中一本是《七大洲九种生活》(7 Continents 9 Lives——暂译，2010年)。
She remembered the formative experience of growing up in the back room of her parents’ hand laundry, Wing Sing, in East Elmhurst, Queens. Ms. Chiang, her three younger siblings and her parents crammed into that 10-by-14-foot room with a folding table, six folding chairs and a convertible sofa, among other furnishings, until she was 9 years old.
她在父母位于皇后区东艾姆赫斯特的手工洗衣店“永兴”（Wing Sing，音）的后屋长大成人，曾回忆起那段对她影响深远的经历。九岁前，身为长女的蒋慧萍与三名手足及父母挤在一个14英尺长、10英尺宽（约4.2米长、3米宽）的房间里，屋内有一张折叠桌、六把折叠椅、一张折叠沙发，以及其他一些摆设。
And she recalled how hard her father, Bay Doc Chiang, had to work. He had cleaned other people’s clothes since immigrating to the United States as a boy in the 1930s from Sunwei, in the southern coastal province of Guangdong, working in the laundry 16 hours a day six days a week while her mother, the former Hop Kun Leo, who was also from Sunwei, ran their modest home.
她还记得自己的父亲蒋贝多（Bay Doc Chiang，音）不得不非常努力地工作。他在1930年代从南方沿海省份广东的笋围移民到美国的时候还是一个男孩，自打那时起便在洗衣店里给人洗衣服，每周工作六天，每天16个小时；同样来自笋围、原名廖合坤（Hop Kun Leo，音）的母亲，则在婚后操持着他们那个寒酸的家。
In “Parents,” Ms. Chiang wrote about her father:
在《父母》(Parents)一书中，蒋慧萍提及了自己的父亲：
hey! That dude was some snappy dresser.
嘿！那个伙计衣着挺入时。
during the war, they let him work
战争期间，他们让他劳作在
the navy yards as an apprentice steelwelder
海军基地，当焊接钢管的学徒
but when the soldiers came home
但等到士兵从战场上归来
laundry customers called him Charlie.
洗衣店的顾客叫他查理。
(“Charlie” was almost certainly a reference to the fictional detective Charlie Chan, who was considered by many a racist Chinese stereotype.)
（“查理”[Charlie]几乎肯定是指虚拟人物侦探陈查理 [Charlie Chan]，在很多人看来，陈查理承载着外界对华人的种族主义刻板观念。）
Fay Ping Chiang was born in the Bronx on Jan. 27, 1952. While attending Hunter College in Manhattan, she became active in the movement against the Vietnam War and worked with student groups to establish Asian-American studies courses and programs at Hunter and other colleges in the City University of New York system.
蒋慧萍于1952年1月27日生于布朗克斯。在曼哈顿的亨特学院(Hunter College)就读期间，她积极投身于反越战运动，并加入了一些学生团体，为的是推动在亨特学院以及纽约市立大学(City University of New York)体系内的其他院校开设亚裔美国人研究课程与项目。
But she left college; as the eldest daughter, she was expected to care for her father, who was dying of cancer, and run the laundry. She eventually graduated from the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan with a degree in illustration.
但她离开了大学校园；作为长女，她得去照顾因身患癌症即将离世的父亲，并经营洗衣店。她最终毕业于曼哈顿的视觉艺术学院(School of Visual Arts)，获得插画设计学位。
In the mid-1970s, Ms. Chiang took the first of what would be a series of jobs with nonprofit groups when she became executive director of the Basement Workshop in Chinatown, a social and cultural organization that mainly served the Asian-American arts community.
1970年代中期，蒋慧萍成为主要服务于亚裔美国人艺术社群的社会文化团体地下室工作坊(Basement Workshop)的执行主任，由此拉开她为一系列非营利组织工作的序幕。
“She was a steadfast believer that cultural and educational work was the key to activism,” John Kuo Wei Tchen, a historian at New York University and founding director of the university’s Asian/Pacific/American Studies Program and Institute, wrote in an email. “She always talked about people needing to realize they had choices and could get unstuck in their lives.”
“她坚信，文化教育工作是行动主义的关键，”纽约大学(New York University)历史学家、该大学亚太裔美国人研究项目及研究所(Asian/Pacific/American Studies Program and Institute)的创始人、主任陈国维(John Kuo Wei Tchen)在一封电子邮件中写道。“她总是说，人们需要意识到他们有选择的机会，可以从他们的生活中解脱出来。”
After a dozen years with the Basement Workshop, Ms. Chiang worked at the Henry Street Settlement’s outreach program; in New York Newsday’s public affairs department; at Project Reach, a youth program based in Chinatown; and Poets & Writers, a readings and workshop program.
在地下室工作坊任职十余年后，蒋慧萍还曾服务于亨利街安置会(Henry Street Settlement)的外展项目、《纽约新闻日报》(New York Newsday)的公共事务部门、唐人街的青少年关爱项目Project Reach，以及阅读和研讨项目Poets & Writers。
In recent years she had painted dozens of portraits of people, many of them youngsters, who were killed by law enforcement.
近年来她为一些人绘制了肖像，其中很多人是被执法部门杀死的青少年。
“I think people need to see the faces of these young people,” Ms. Chiang told the news website DNAinfo in 2015 when she exhibited the portraits at the Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts on West 39th Street in Manhattan.
“我认为世人需要看到这些年轻人的脸，”这些肖像于2015年在曼哈顿西39街的伊莉莎白艺术基金会(Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts)展出时，她告诉新闻网站DNAinfo。
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Chiang is survived by her sisters, Jean and Janice Chiang. She never married. Her brother, Peter, died in 1982.
除了女儿，蒋慧萍尚在人世的亲人还有她的两个妹妹，简和珍妮丝(Jean and Janice Chiang)。她一生未婚，她的弟弟彼得(Peter)死于1982年。
Ms. Chiang documented the toll that metastatic breast cancer had taken on her in “Landmarks and Geography,” a 2012 poem that opens with a list of each surgery and each tumor, node and breast that had been removed from her. Despite three tumors still in one lung, sciatica coursing from her spine to her toes and pain from scars, she wrote that she felt joy at still standing and
蒋慧萍在2012年的诗作《地标和地理》（Landmarks and Geography——暂译）中记录了她为转移性乳腺癌付出的代价，诗的开头列明了她做过的每一次手术，以及从她身上被切除的每一个肿瘤、淋巴结和乳房。她写道，尽管一个肺里仍然长着三个肿瘤，尽管坐骨神经痛让她从脊柱难受到脚趾，尽管身上的伤疤隐隐作痛，她还是感到高兴，因为自己仍然能够站立，
still walking
仍然能够行走，
all hours of the day
随时漫步于
the streets of this city
我生长于斯的
of my birth;
这座城市的街头，
Chinatown, the Lower East Side,
唐人街，下东区，
And East Village my home.
还有我东村的家。
wind, sun, rain, snow sleet —
风霜雨雪——
elements against my open face
扑面而来
still alive.
仍然活着。