As the jury read the verdict — guilty — in the manslaughter trial of a New York City police officer whose gunshot into the stairwell of a public-housing building killed an unarmed man, the officer, Peter Liang, crumpled in his seat in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, his face falling into his hands.
在布鲁克林纽约州最高法院内进行的针对一名纽约警员过失杀人指控的庭审中，陪审团最终宣布被告有罪。听到这一裁决时，彼得·梁(Peter Liang)跌坐在椅子上，用手捂住了脸。此前，他朝一座公租房的楼梯间开枪，致一名手无寸铁的男子死亡。
In the courtroom gallery on Thursday night, his deflated posture was mirrored not just by his family, but also by some of the Chinese-language newspaper reporters present, and by the supporters, many of Asian descent, who had rallied around him.
上周四晚上，在法庭内的旁听席上，与梁警员一样感到灰心丧气的不仅有他的家人，还有在座的一些华文报纸记者和他的支持者。后者有很多是亚裔，因为梁警员的案子而聚集起来。
Their courtroom sentiment reflected the feelings that have swelled throughout the city’s Asian enclaves since Officer Liang’s indictment last year and that have peaked following his conviction. Many have rallied around the officer, who is Chinese-American, describing him as a scapegoat who was targeted at a time when there is a roiling national debate about the policing of black neighborhoods. And it has pulled at a thread long woven through the city’s Asian population, which sees what happened as yet another example of the mistreatment of a marginalized community, ill-equipped to fight back.
他们在法庭内的这种心情，也反映了自梁警员去年被正式起诉之后，在纽约整个亚裔群体中滋长起来的一种情绪，这种情绪因他被定罪而达到顶峰。有不少人团结在这名华裔美国警察周围。他们认为，在有关警察在黑人社区的所作所为的全国性辩论沸沸扬扬之时，梁警员充当了替罪羊。此事触动了在纽约亚裔群体中长期存在的一种不满情绪，他们将此次发生的事件看作一个无力反抗的边缘社群被恶劣对待的又一个例子。
“In the wake of unfortunately so many deaths of unarmed black men, some cops gotta hang,” said John C. Liu, referring to what he contended was a widespread opinion. Mr. Liu, the former New York City comptroller who ran for mayor in 2013, has been vocal on social media about his belief that Officer Liang was unfairly singled out. “The sentiment in the Asian community is: It’s easier to hang an Asian, because Asians, they don’t speak up.”
“在那么多手无寸铁的黑人不幸身亡后，总要有警察付出代价，”刘醇逸(John C. Liu)说，他认为这是一种普遍存在的想法。这位纽约市前审计长曾在2013年参选市长，他一直在社交媒体上直白地表示，梁警员是被单独拎出来的，受到了不公平的对待。“亚裔群体的感觉是：惩罚一个亚裔更加容易，因为亚裔，他们不会站出来说话。”
A bullet from Mr. Liang’s gun ricocheted off a cement wall and killed Akai Gurley, 28, an unarmed black man and the father to two young girls, as he walked down the stairs in the Louis H. Pink Houses, a public-housing project in East New York, Brooklyn, on November 20, 2014. Throughout the trial, Mr. Gurley’s family had framed the shooting along different racial lines, saying it was another example of unjustified police violence against black men.
2014年11月20日，在纽约东部布鲁克林的一座公租房路易斯·H·平克内，梁警员射出的子弹从一面水泥墙上弹回来，击中了正在下楼梯的阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)。28岁的格利当时并没有持任何武器，他中弹后丧命，留下了两个年幼的女儿。庭审过程中，格利的家人按照种族界线来为这起枪击事件定性，说它是警察不公正地对黑人实施暴力的又一个例子。
Mr. Liang, who was fired from the Police Department immediately after the verdict, faces up to 15 years in prison when he is sentenced by Justice Danny K. Chun of State Supreme Court. (Justice Chun is Korean-American.)
陪审团做出裁决之后，梁警员立即被纽约市警察局解雇。纽约州最高法院的法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)将给他定刑，他将面临最高15年的监禁（田法官是韩裔）。
On Friday, in Manhattan’s Chinatown and in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, another heavily Asian neighborhood, Asian-Americans denounced the verdict at various gatherings. At a news conference at the Chinatown offices of the Lin Sing Association on Mott Street, an advocacy group, Mr. Liang’s defense team fielded questions from the audience, but played down the suggestion that his ethnicity played a role in the case.
周五，在曼哈顿华埠和另一个亚裔聚集的社区布鲁克林的日落公园内，举行了多次亚裔美国人的集会，对这一裁决表示谴责。在位于勿街的倡导组织美东联成公所(Lin Sing Association)的华埠办公楼内举行的一场新闻发布会上，梁警员的辩护团队回答了在场观众的提问，但他们淡化了有关梁的族裔身份对这起案件有影响的说法。
“People of all races are saying that if Peter Liang were not Chinese or were not a person of color, maybe he wouldn’t have been convicted,” said Robert E. Brown, one of Mr. Liang’s lawyers. “I honestly don’t know. I don’t think that our jury deliberately said, ‘Let’s convict this person because he’s a person of color.’”
“各种族的人都在说，如果彼得·梁不是华裔，或不是有色人种，他可能就不会定罪，”梁警员的一位辩护律师罗百能(Robert E. Brown)说。“这点我真的不确定。我不觉得我们的陪审团有意说，‘我们给这个人定罪吧，因为他是有色人种。’”
Joseph Lin, a real estate agent and activist who had organized rallies at City Hall last winter after Mr. Liang was indicted, expressed frustration over what he said was the tepid response of Asian-American officials and community leaders. For too long, he said, Asian-Americans have been too passive or indifferent because “they don’t want to be troubled; they don’t want to be bothered.”
在梁警员被正式起诉后，房产经纪、活动人士约瑟夫·林(Joseph Lin)曾于去年冬天在纽约市政厅前组织了几次集会活动。他认为亚裔官员和社区领袖的反应有些过于平淡，并表示对此感到失望。他说，亚裔一直太被动和不计较，因为“他们不想惹麻烦；不想费事。”他认为这种情况已经持续太久。
“If you’re a group that doesn’t have a voice, a political voice, you will be mistreated,” added Mr. Lin, who plans to organize a protest over the verdict on Sunday.
“如果一个群体不发出自己的声音，不表达自己的政治主张，就会遭到践踏，”约瑟夫·林接着说。他计划在周日组织一场抗议梁警员被定罪的活动。
“If he’s a black officer, I guarantee you Al Sharpton will come out,” he said. “If he’s Hispanic, all the congressmen will come out. But no, he’s a Chinese, so no one is coming out.”
“如果他是个黑人警员，我肯定阿尔·沙普顿(Al Sharpton)会站出来说话，”他说。“如果他是西语裔，所有议员都会站出来。但他是个华人，所以没人站出来说话。”
Christine Leung, 52, a retired New York police detective, said she had attended every day of the trial, often sitting next to Mr. Liang’s mother and serving as an interpreter for Mr. Liang’s supporters. She said she felt it was her duty to do so as an officer and as an Asian-American.
52岁的纽约退休警探克里斯蒂娜·梁(Christine Leung)表示，法庭审理这起案件期间，她每天都来旁听，常常坐在梁警员的母亲旁边，并为在场的他的支持者们充当翻译。她说，作为她一名亚裔美国人和一名警察，她觉得自己有义务这么做。
“People never look at us as Americans,” she said. “We are part of the thread of the community. But there is something that is so grossly biased.”
“人们从不把我们当美国人看，”她说。“我们是社群的一部分。但这里存在一些极为严重的偏见。”
The divided public opinion over the verdict speaks not to an ethnic divide, Ms. Leung said, but to the weakness of the case. “If he is reckless and he did something so terribly wrong, there should be no argument,” she said. “Then everybody would be saying, ‘He’s guilty.’ Why are people so split?”
梁女士表示，就陪审团的裁决产生的舆论分歧，显示出的不是种族分歧，而是说明这起案件存在问题。“如果说他鲁莽行事，犯下了极为可怕的错误，就不会有什么争议，”她说。“那样的话，所有人都会说，‘他有罪。’可为什么人们会产生这么大分歧？”
On Friday, numerous groups on Chinese-language social media services like WeChat quickly formed in support of Mr. Liang, their members expressing dismay at the verdict.
周五，微信等中文社交媒体应用上很快出现了无数个支持梁警员的群组。这些社交媒体群的成员表达了他们对陪审团裁决的失望。
But support for Mr. Liang among Asians was far from unanimous. During a nearly three-week trial, Mr. Gurley’s family, including his aunt, Hertencia Petersen, and the woman with whom he was raising the two girls, Kimberly Ballinger, were surrounded by volunteers and advocates who acted as the family’s guards and spokesmen. The group was once known as the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence, founded in the 1980s in response to mounting violence against Asians. It now calls itself Caaav and has expanded its mission to protest police mistreatment of anyone, regardless of background.
然而，亚裔群体远未达到一致支持梁警员的程度。在为期近三周的庭审期间，格利的家人——他的姨妈赫腾西亚·彼得森(Hertencia Petersen)，和他一起养育两个女儿的女子金伯利·巴林杰(Kimberly Ballinger)——身边聚集着不少志愿者和倡导人士，担当着这家人的守护者和发言人角色。这个原先名为亚裔反暴力联盟(Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence)的组织，是在80年代因针对亚裔的暴力事件不断增加而成立的。它现在的名称为Caaav，其使命扩大至抗议警方对任何人的不公正对待，不管受害人是何背景。
Cathy Dang, the executive director of the organization, described the tightrope that she and other supporters of Mr. Gurley walk, between a sense that Mr. Liang was treated unfairly and a desire to seek justice for victims of police abuse. 
该组织的执行总监邓丽君(Cathy Dang)描述了她和其他一些格利支持者的处境：他们是在梁警员被不公对待的感受和为遭遇警方暴力的受害者讨回公道的渴望之间，艰难地寻求平衡。
“Peter Liang is not a white officer, and he is being the one who is thrown under the bus,’’ Ms. Dang said. Referring to Eric Garner, an unarmed man who died on Staten Island after an officer put him in a chokehold, she added, “Meanwhile, white officers have not been held accountable.” None of the officers involved in the Garner case have been charged with a crime.
“彼得·梁不是白人警员，他成了被牺牲的那一个，”邓丽君说。谈到在斯塔顿岛手无寸铁地被一名警察掐住脖子致死的埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)时，她接着说，“与此同时，许多白人警员却没有被追责。”与加尔那案件有关的警察未有一人受到指控。
“We have always said this case only means that we want to make sure that white officers be held accountable,” Ms. Dang said.
“我们一直讲，这个案件唯一的意义是，我们想确保白人警察也被追责，”邓丽君说。
She said Caaav came under fierce criticism from many Asians for its support of the Gurley family. “I hear it and I feel for them,’’ she said. “I understand that they feel like he is a scapegoat, but at the end of the day, a life was stolen from a family, and Officer Liang is part of a system that does it to many other people, and we can’t keep giving police officers impunity.”
她表示，因对格利一家表示支持，Caaav遭到很多亚裔的猛烈抨击。“我听见了，我能体谅他们的心情，”她说。“我明白他们觉得他是个替罪羊，但说到底，有这么一个人的生命被夺走了，而梁警员属于那个对很多其他人也做了同样恶事的系统，我们不能再继续让这些警察免于惩处。”
On Pell Street in Chinatown, a day after the verdict, Donald Moy, 71, sat reading newspapers at a cafe he owns, Mee Sum Coffee. He was unequivocal. “The case is 100 percent by accident — the bullet ricocheted,” he said. “So many cases involving white officers, only one involving a Chinese, and one-two-three, they’re finished. That’s it?”
陪审团做出裁决的第二天，在曼哈顿华埠的披露街(Pell Street)上，71岁特朗普·梅(Donald Moy)正坐在自己经营的美心咖啡馆(Mee Sum Coffee)里读报纸。他的态度非常明确。“这案子百分百是个意外——子弹反弹了，”他说。“有那么多和白人警察有关的案件，牵涉华人的只有这么一个，但他们简简单单地就了结了那些案件。就这么完了？”
At Kelly Hair Salon nearby, Mandy Lu, 43, a stylist who lives in Chinatown, became overwhelmed with emotion as she tended to a customer. “You have so many police that have been so extremely abusive,” she said in Mandarin. “Why do they have to make an example of a Chinese?”
在附近的凯利理发店里，住在华埠的43岁的发型师曼迪·卢(Mandy Lu)正给一名顾客做头发。她的情绪变得激动起来。“有那么多随便滥用暴力的警察，”她用汉语说。“为什么就拿一个华人开刀？”