PARIS – Charlie Chaplin’s 1929 honorary Oscar statuette was stolen in Paris late last month from the offices of the Association Chaplin, according to the organization.
巴黎——卓别林协会(Association Chaplin)称，上月底，查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)1929年获得的奥斯卡荣誉奖小金人在该协会的巴黎办公室失窃。
The Association Chaplin is a Swiss organization, with Paris offices, that aims to protect the name, image and rights linked to Charlie Chaplin’s work. Its director, Kate Guyonvarch, could not provide additional details on the theft, but said via email, “We and the Chaplin family are extremely shaken by this loss, and trust that the police will get to the bottom of the break-in very soon.”
卓别林协会是瑞士的一个机构，在巴黎设有办事处，该协会旨在保护查理·卓别林的名誉、肖像和与他的作品有关的权利。协会负责人凯特·居永瓦奇(Kate Guyonvarch)无法提供关于失窃的更多细节，但她在邮件中说，“我们和卓别林的家人都为失窃感到极为震惊，相信警察会很快查清失窃真相。”
The French newspaper Le Parisien, quoting an anonymous police source, reported that several pens that had belonged to the British star were also stolen and that each was worth 80,000 euros. The same source told Le Parisien that the burglary was the work of “perfectly informed” individuals who had specifically targeted the Chaplin memorabilia.
法国报纸《巴黎人》(Le Parisien)引用警察局一位匿名人士的话报道说，这位英国明星的几支钢笔也一同失窃，每支钢笔价值八万欧元。此人还告诉《巴黎人》，盗贼是“非常了解情况的”人，专门针对卓别林的纪念品。
Some pre-1950 statuettes have fetched hundreds of thousands of dollars in auctions. (These days, a winner wishing to sell an Oscar must offer the Academy the opportunity to buy it back for $1. That rule does not apply to older statuettes.)
1950年前的奥斯卡奖座在拍卖会上的售价可达几十万美元（如今，想出售奥斯卡小金人的获奖者必须给美国电影艺术与科学学院一个机会，允许其以1美元的价格购回。这一规则不适用于年代更久远的奖座）。
Mr. Chaplin, who died in 1977 at the age of 88, received the honorary Oscar during the very first Academy Awards in 1929 for “acting, writing, directing and producing ‘The Circus,’” which featured Mr. Chaplin’s iconic Tramp, the disheveled and bumbling character he portrayed in many of his silent films.
卓别林1977年去世，享年88岁。在1929年第一届奥斯卡奖评选中，卓别林凭借“出演、编写、导演和制作《马戏团》(The Circus)”获得荣誉奖。卓别林在片中饰演标志性的流浪汉角色，他在很多无声电影中演绎过这个衣衫凌乱、笨手笨脚的角色。
Mr. Chaplin also received an honorary Oscar in 1972, “for the incalculable effect he had in making motion pictures the art form of this century,” but was awarded only one regular Academy Award throughout his whole career, for the score of “Limelight,” in 1973.
1972年，卓别林又获得了奥斯卡终身成就奖，评委会称“他在使电影成为本世纪最重要的艺术形式方面做出了不可估量的贡献”，但他整个事业中唯一一次获得奥斯卡常规奖是1973年凭借《舞台春秋》(Limelight)获得最佳原创音乐奖。