Snappily titled the “Six stops and one wash,” the Beijing city government has announced a new and complex string of regulations to combat the effect of persistent, heavy air pollution on the populace. A key rule will take private vehicles off the roads on alternate days, depending on their license plate, when pollution is especially bad.
北京市政府出台了一套新的复杂措施组合，以抗击持续的严重大气污染给市民带来的影响，被明快地称为“六停一冲”的这套措施含有一个关键规定：在污染严重的日子，对私人机动车将根据车牌号实行单双号限行。 The new measures, announced Thursday, came as air in the capital was “heavily polluted,” according to government air quality readings. Air pollution is a chronic problem in large parts of China.
这些措施在周四出炉之际，官方大气质量读数显示，首都的空气“严重污染”。大气污染是中国大片地区面临的一个长期问题。
The regulations consist of a system of four colored alerts that will kick in when either one or three days of heavy pollution are forecast, and come as the World Health Organization’s cancer agency, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, announced it was classifying air pollution as a Group 1 human carcinogen.
根据这一预案，当预测未来一天或者三天将出现严重污染时，将启动四个用颜色标示的预警响应级别，与此同时，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的癌症研究机构——国际癌症研究机构(International Agency for Research on Cancer)宣布将大气污染界定为“第一类人类致癌物”。
Particulate matter, a main component of air pollution, was also being classified as a carcinogen, the Lyon, France-based agency said. “Our conclusion is that this is a leading environmental cause of cancer deaths,” Dr. Christopher Wild, the agency director, told a news briefing in Geneva, according to Reuters.
总部位于法国里昂的该机构称，大气污染的主要成分之一颗粒物也被列为致癌物质。根据路透社(Reuters)报道，该机构主任克里斯托弗·瓦尔德(Christopher Wild)博士在日内瓦的一次新闻发布会上说，“我们的结论是，颗粒物是导致癌症死亡的主要环境原因之一。”
That puts both air pollution and air-suspended particulate matter with more than 100 other known cancer-causing substances in the agency’s Group 1 category, including asbestos, plutonium, silica dust, ultraviolet radiation and tobacco smoke, Reuters reported.
据路透社报道，这意味着该组织将大气污染和大气悬浮颗粒物列为第一类致癌物，这一类别还包括其他100多种已知的致癌物质，包括石棉、钚、矽尘、紫外线辐射和烟草烟雾。
Beijing, along with much of northern China, suffers from consistently heavy air pollution that can be especially bad in the winter with the widespread use of coal-powered heating systems.
北京以及中国北方大部分城市持续遭受严重的大气污染，冬季大范围使用燃煤供暖系统时，情况会变得尤其严重。
The plan seems to rest on being able to predict pollution patterns with great accuracy.
该计划似乎建立在有能力相当准确地预测污染状况的基础之上。
When one day of “heavy” pollution, defined as an air quality index reading of 201 to 300, is predicted, a blue alert will be called and extra street washing will be carried out. A yellow alert applies to one day of “serious” pollution, defined as an AQI of over 300, and will also lead to extra street washing.
预测未来一天将出现“重度”污染，即大气质量读数在201-300之间时，将启动蓝色预警，增加对街道的冲洗次数。预测未来一天将出现“严重”污染，即大气质量读数超过300时，将启动黄色预警，增加街道冲洗次数。
Street washing is intended hold down the dust that accumulates from things like construction activity and sand from the desert, though some here see it as a mostly cosmetic measure.
冲洗街道是为了吸住建筑活动等扬起的灰尘，以及来自沙漠的沙尘，尽管北京的一些人认为，此举基本上只是表面文章。
When three days of “heavy” pollution are predicted, an orange alert will be called and more action will be taken: factories will close, work on constructions sites  will stop and there will be a ban on barbequing and setting off firecrackers.
预测未来三天将交替出现“重度”或“严重”污染时，将启动橙色预警，执行更多措施：工业企业停产、建筑拆除工地强制停工、停止燃放烟花爆竹、露天烧烤停止经营。
A red alert will be called when three days of “serious” pollution are forecast, leading to the full “Six stops and one wash” plan. As well as all the above measures, kindergartens, elementary and high schools will shut, and cars can drive only on alternate days; those with an odd number at the end of their license plate can drive on odd-numbered days, and those with an even number on even-numbered days. Although some people can naturally get around this, for instance, those lucky enough to have more than one car with the right plates.
预测未来三天将持续出现“严重”污染时，将启动红色预警，全面采取“六停一冲”措施。除了上述措施外，中小学和幼儿园停课，机动车单双号限行：车牌尾号为单数的车辆只能在单数日出行，尾号为双数的车辆只能在双数日出行。当然，一些人可以轻易绕过这个规定，比如那些幸运地拥有超过一辆车，而且车牌尾数单双号都有的人。
Xinhua, the state-run news agency, said that measure will lead to about two million more people squeezing onto public transport. Extra buses would be deployed and the subway would run for half an hour longer in the evening, it said.
官方的新华社称，此举将导致使用公共交通的人数增加大约200万。报道称，限行日北京将全面增加公交运力，夜间地铁营运时间延长半小时。
While the plan has received quite a bit of attention already, with many people sending or forwarding messages with details on Sina Weibo, the Chinese microblog site, its usefulness is already being called into question.
虽然这一预案得到了不少关注，很多人在中国微博网站新浪微博上发帖或是转帖，但其有效性已经引发质疑。
“The target of getting this policy out there is the pollution. So the point is whether the odd and even car rule will solve the air pollution problem. I don’t believe this is a good policy. It’s a simple and crude measure that leaves the skies still smoggy,” said Manpaozhe Robin on Weibo.
“漫跑者Robin”在新浪微博上发帖称，“看政府出台政策的目的，是污染。所以要看单双号政策能不能解决空气污染问题才是关键。如果说这是良策，我不信。简单粗暴的政策而已，天空依旧是灰霾的。”
China has also announced a long-term, multibillion-renminbi plan to clear the air, but the government has warned it will not be easy or quick.
中国还宣布了一个耗费巨资治理大气的长期计划，但政府警告这并非易事，不是一朝一夕就能成功。
Another person with the username Jihe de dipan said on Weibo: “Starting from today, I will use my mobile phone to follow the air pollution index. Even though we are helpless against the serious pollution that worsens day by day, the least I can do is use my goodness and this record to warn my loved ones and friends to protect their health!” Today, the person noted, “the air pollution level is 285.”
以“几何的地盘”为用户名的另一个新浪微博用户发帖称，“从今天开始，我会用手机记录每天的‘空气质量’。虽然面对日趋严重的污染状况我们眼下着实无能为力，但是，我至少可以善意地利用这些记录去提醒我身边的亲人和朋友，关注天气，关爱自己的身体！”他写道，今天“污染指数285”。