Here’s a September celebration you probably didn’t know about: It’s National Single and Unmarried Americans Week.
这是一个你可能并不知道的9月份节日：全美未婚及单身人士周(National Unmarried and Single Americans Week)。
But maybe celebration isn’t the right word. Social scientists and researchers say the plight of the American single person is cause for growing concern.
但“节日”一词可能并不确切。社会科学家及研究者说，美国单身者面临的困境带来了日益增长的焦虑。
About 100 million Americans, nearly half of all adults, are unmarried, according to the Census Bureau — yet they tend to be overlooked by policies that favor married couples, from family-leave laws to lower insurance rates.
根据美国人口调查局(Census Bureau)提供的数据，大约有一亿美国人未婚，接近成年人口的一半——他们往往会被那些更有益于已婚夫妇的政策所忽视，像是家庭休假法以及较低的保险费率等。
That national bias is one reason gay people fight for the right to marry, but now some researchers are concerned that the marriage equality movement is leaving single people behind.
这种全国性的不公平是同性恋人士为了婚姻权而斗争的原因之一，但现在有些研究者关心的是，婚姻平等运动把单身人士排除在了外面。
“There is this push for marriage in the straight community and in the gay community, essentially assuming that if you don’t get married there is something wrong with you,” says Naomi Gerstel, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst who has published a number of papers comparing the married and unmarried.
“异性恋及同性恋团体都在极力推崇婚姻，本质上就是在假定，如果你不结婚的话，那你肯定有什么地方出了问题，” 娜奥米·格斯特尔(Naomi Gerstel)说。她是马萨诸塞大学(University of Massachusetts)阿默斯特分校的社会学家，发表了不少比较已婚和未婚人士情况的论文。
“But a huge proportion of the population is unmarried, and the single population is only going to grow. At the same time, all the movement nationally is to offer benefits to those who are married, and that leaves single people dry.”
“但是人口总数中有很大一部分都是未婚的，单身人口也会只增不减。与此同时，所有的全国性运动都是在力争向已婚人士提供福利，忽略了单身人士的利益。”
Yet as she and other experts note, single people often contribute more to the community — because once people marry, they tend to put their energy and focus into their partners and their own families at the expense of friendships, community ties and extended families.
就像她和其他专家提出的那样，单身人士对社区的贡献往往更大——因为一旦人们结婚，就会更倾向于把他们的精力与注意力都放到伴侣和自己的小家庭上，而非友情、社群关系以及大家族中。
In a report released this week by the Council on Contemporary Families, Dr. Gerstel notes that while 68 percent of married women offer practical or routine help to their parents, 84 percent of the never-married do. Just 38 percent of married men help their parents, compared with 67 percent of never-married men. Even singles who have children are more likely than married people to contribute outside their immediate family.
在现代家庭理事会(Council on Contemporary Families)于本周发表的报告中，格斯特尔博士指出，68%的已婚女性向他们的父母提供实际性或日常性的帮助，而在从未结过婚的女性中这个比例为84%。只有38%的已婚男性会帮助他们的父母，而有67%从未结过婚的未婚男性会这么做。甚至连那些有孩子的单身人士对小家庭外部社会的贡献都比已婚人群要大。
“It’s the unmarried, with or without kids, who are more likely to take care of other people,” Dr. Gerstel said. “It’s not having children that isolates people. It’s marriage.”
“无论有没有小孩，单身人士都更加关心照顾他人，”格斯特尔博士说，“隔绝人们的并不是生儿育女，而是婚姻。”
The unmarried also tend to be more connected with siblings, nieces and nephews. And while married people have high rates of volunteerism when it comes to taking part in their children’s activities, unmarried people often are more connected to the community as a whole. About 1 in 5 unmarried people take part in volunteer work like teaching, coaching other people’s children, raising money for charities and distributing or serving food.
未婚人士与兄弟姐妹以及甥侄之间的联系也更为紧密。已婚人士中有较大的比例，会在子女们的活动中热心做志愿者，而未婚人士则往往与社区整体关系更近。在每五个未婚者中，就有一位会参加像教育、训练别人的子女，为慈善团体筹款，分发或配送食物这样的志愿工作。
Unmarried people are more likely to visit with neighbors. And never-married women are more likely than married women to sign petitions and go to political gatherings, according to Dr. Gerstel.
格斯特尔博士表示，未婚人士更喜欢去邻居家串门。从未结过婚的女性要比已婚女性更有可能签署请愿书以及参加政治集会。
The demographics of unmarried people are constantly changing, and more Americans are spending a greater percentage of their lives unmarried than married. While some people never marry, other adults now counted as single are simply delaying marriage longer than people of their parents’ generation did. And many people are single because of divorce or the death of a spouse. About one-sixth of all unmarried adults are 65 and older; nearly one-eighth of unmarried people are parents.
未婚人群的人口一直在变化，而且一生中单身的时间比结婚时间长的美国人数目也在增加。有些人一辈子不结婚，其他目前单身的成年人相较他们的上一辈人，把步入婚姻的时间延后了许多。许多人因为离婚或者丧偶而恢复单身。在所有未婚成年人中，大约有六分之一的人为65岁及以上；有接近八分之一的未婚者已为人父母。
The pressure to marry is particularly strong for women. A 2009 study by researchers at the University of Missouri and Texas Tech University carried the title “I’m a Loser, I’m Not Married, Let’s Just All Look at Me.” The researchers conducted 32 interviews with middle-class women in their 30s who felt stigmatized by the fact that they had never married.
对女人来说，要结婚的压力尤其大。一项由密苏里大学(University of Missouri)与德克萨斯理工大学(Texas Tech University)的研究人员在2009年联合发表的报告名为《我是一个失败者，我没有结婚，大家都看看我吧》(I’m a Loser, I’m Not Married, Let’s Just All Look at Me.)。研究者们对一群三十多岁的中产阶级女性进行了32次采访，她们都对自己从未结过婚的事实感到耻辱。
“These were very successful women in their careers and their lives, yet almost all of them felt bad about not being married, like they were letting someone down,” said Lawrence Ganong, a chairman of human development and family studies at the University of Missouri.
“这些女性无论是在事业还是生活中都非常成功，但她们几乎全都对没结婚这件事感觉很难过，就好像她们为此让谁失望了一样，”劳伦斯·加农(Lawrence Ganong)说，他是密苏里大学人类发展与家庭研究的主席。
“If a person is happy being single,” he said, “then we should support that as well.”
“如果某个人单身得很愉快，我们应该给予同样的支持，”他说。
Bella DePaulo, a visiting professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, has a term for discrimination against single people, which she calls one of the last accepted prejudices. It is the title of her new book, “Singlism: What It Is, Why It Matters and How to Stop It.”
贝拉·德保罗(Bella DePaulo)是加州大学圣巴巴拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)的心理学客座教授，她认为对单身人群的歧视是仅存的几种被广为接受的偏见之一，并为其取了一个专有名词——单身歧视(Singlism)。她也把这个词用在了她的新书书名上：《单身歧视：定义、重要性及如何阻止》(Singlism: What It Is, Why It Matters and How to Stop It.)。
As an example, Dr. DePaulo cites the Family and Medical Leave Act. Because she is single and has no children, nobody in her life can take time off under the law to care for her if she becomes ill. Nor does it require that she be given time off to care for a sibling, nephew or close friend.
德保罗博士拿家庭与医疗休假法(Family and Medical Leave Act)为例来说明。因为她是单身，也没有孩子，所以如果她生病了，没有人能在法律的支持下请假来照顾她。她也不能请假去照顾她的兄弟姐妹、甥侄或者好朋友。
Stephanie Coontz, director of research for the Council on Contemporary Families, says policy makers often neglect the needs of single people because their view is outdated — based on the way they themselves grew up.
现代家庭理事会研究的主管斯蒂芬妮·孔茨(Stephanie Coontz)说，政策制定者经常忽略单身人士的需要，因为他们的视野都基于他们自己所成长的环境，太过时了。
In researching her latest book, “A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique in American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s,” Ms. Coontz found that in the past single people were often called “deviant,” “neurotic” and “selfish.”
在她最新著作《奇异思潮的萌生：20世纪60年代初<女性的奥秘>一书对美国女性的影响》(A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique in American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s)中，孔茨表示，在过去，单身的人们经常被认为是“离经叛道”、“神经质”以及“自私”。
“We do have the tendency to think that there is something special about married people, and that they are the ones who keep community and family going,” she said. “I thought it was important to point out that single people keep our community going, too.”
“我们的确有这样的倾向，认为结婚的人有些特别之处，他们能够支撑社群与家庭前行，”她说，“我觉得，把单身人士对我们社群发展也很重要这件事指出来，是非常重要的。”