The number of single people buying homes has dipped in the last few years, but single women remain better represented among buyers than single men. Today they are buying at roughly twice the rate.
近几年来，买房子的单身族人数有所下降，但是购房的单身女性仍然比单身男性要多，而且在今天，几乎已经多出了一倍。
According to the National Association of Realtors, single women accounted for 16 percent of home buyers last year, lower than their long-term average of 20 percent. Yet they were still well ahead of single men, who accounted for only 9 percent.
根据全国房地产经纪人协会(National Association of Realtors)的数据，去年，单身女性在所有购房者中占比16%，虽然低于20%的长期平均值，但是依然遥遥领先于单身男性，后者只占购房者的9%。
Women began to outpace men in home-buying in the late 1990s, and although no one is really sure why men haven’t caught up, “it may be as simple as most guys don’t get serious about housing until they meet the right woman,” said Walter Molony, a spokesman for the association.
女性购房者的数量自20世纪90年代末开始超越男性，尽管谁也不确定男性为何没有迎头赶上，“其中的原因或许很简单，那就是大多数男性在找到合适的伴侣之前，不会认真考虑买房的问题，”协会发言人沃尔特·莫洛尼(Walter Molony)表示。
Demographic changes are helping to fuel the trend. More women than ever are the primary earners in their households, according to a recent Pew Research Center study.
人口结构的变化也助长了这一趋势。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)近日的一项研究表明，成为家庭经济支柱的女性人数之多，史无前例。
In a record 40 percent of American households with children— nearly four times the level in 1960 — women are the breadwinners. And about two-thirds of these breadwinners are single.
在有小孩的美国家庭中，由女性负担家庭生计的比例达到了创纪录的40%——与1960年的水平相比，增长了将近三倍。其中，有三分之二的养家女性为单身。
“It really is a market that wasn’t there a couple of decades ago,” said Hale Walker, a founder of Michigan Mutual, a mortgage lender in Port Huron, Mich.
“这实在是一个几十年前还没有的市场，”密歇根州休伦港(Port Huron)一家按揭贷款公司Michigan Mutual的创始人黑尔·沃克(Hale Walker)表示。
In Mr. Walker’s experience, single women are more proactive these days in planning for their financial future, and they often approach a home purchase as a smart addition to their portfolio. He categorizes them with engineers and schoolteachers as the type of client who tends to be focused and organized.
从沃克的经验看，近年来，单身女性在为将来的“钱途”做打算的问题上变得更积极了。她们往往把买房作为一项明智的投资，纳入自己的投资组合。沃克把单身女性和工程师和学校教师归为一类，他们都是那种目标明确、计划性强的顾客。
“They’re coming in with a good handle on what they’re trying to accomplish,” he said.
“他们有备而来，对自己想要达成的目的有很好的把握，”他说。
But then again, many single women who have never owned a home are intimidated by the process, said Jeanie Douthitt, an agent with Private Label Realty in the Dallas area.
不过话又说回来，很多从没买过房子的单身女性会被买房的流程吓住，达拉斯地区一家名为Private Label Realty地产公司的经纪人珍妮·杜西特(Jeanie Douthitt)如是说。
She tries to ease these fears with a step-by-step program she created called Smart Women Buy Homes. The idea is to educate women new to the market, a group that includes single moms, divorcees, recent college graduates and older professionals who have never been married.
为了减轻女性客户的恐惧，她策划了一个循序渐进的项目，叫做“聪明的女人会买房”(Smart Women Buy Homes)。其本意就是给不熟悉房地产市场的女性客户指点迷津，这些女性客户包括单亲妈妈、离婚人士、刚毕业的大学生、保持单身的年长职业人士。
“Qualifying for a mortgage — that is probably the scariest part for single women,” Ms. Douthitt said. “Even if they’ve been married before and bought a home, they often aren’t knowledgeable about the process. They were just signing papers.”
“要想拿到按揭贷款，必须符合申请条件——这或许是最让单身女性害怕的部分，”杜西特表示，“即使是结过婚、买过房的女性，也往往不熟悉这个流程。她们只是一口气签了许多份文件而已。”
Many are under the impression that they cannot possibly qualify for a loan unless they save enough cash for a 20 percent down payment, which is a particularly daunting prospect for women who have children to support. Instead, Ms. Douthitt said, “we put a lot of women into an F.H.A. loan,” which requires as little as 3.5 percent down.
很多人都有这样的印象，认为要想申请到按揭，必须攒够相当于20%首付的钱，这对于需要养孩子的女性来说尤为吃力。但是其实不一定非得这样，杜西特表示，“我们帮很多女客户办理了联邦房管局（Federal Housing Administration，简称FHA）贷款，”这样就只需要付3.5%的首付。
Cara Hawkins, a production manager at Ameripro Funding who works closely with Ms. Douthitt, has found that single women are more interested than single men in fully understanding the process. For that reason, “they are more apt to reach out for help,” she said, “and if they have a good advocate on their side, they will move faster than men.”
按揭贷款公司Ameripro Funding的产品部经理卡拉·霍金斯(Cara Hawkins)与杜西特的合作密切。她发现，单身女性比单身男性更有兴趣彻底了解购房流程。因此，“她们更倾向于寻求帮助，”她说，“而且要是想到什么好的方案，她们也会比男客户更快行动。”
In a 2006 study, the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard calculated the value of home purchases by single women over a three-year period at $550 billion. Ms. Douthitt believes that market would swell considerably if more real estate professionals followed her lead.
哈佛大学住房研究联合中心(Joint Center for Housing Studies)在2006年发表的一项研究中，以三年为期，计算了单身女性购买的房屋总价值。计算结果为5500亿美元（约合人民币33713亿元）。杜西特认为，要是有更多房地产从业人员效法她的业务方向，房地产市场就会大幅膨胀。
“What most people don’t understand is that one out of every five homes being sold are being bought by single women,” Ms. Douthitt said.
“大多数人都不了解，市场中每卖出五套房子，其中就有一套是由单身女性购买的，”杜西特说。
“If more people were out there helping single women, that 20 percent would double, I promise you.”
“要是有更多人为单身女性们指点迷津，那么这20%的比例还会翻倍，我跟你打包票。”