SALT LAKE CITY — One pill makes you smarter. One pill makes you thin. One pill makes you happy. Another keeps you energized. And so what if tests conducted by scientists in New York and Canada have found that the substances behind these miracle enhancements may contain nothing more than powdered rice or houseplants. If enough people believe they’ll be healthier, well, it’s a nice racket.
盐湖城——服用一种药丸，你会变得更聪明。服用另一种，你会瘦下来。再一种，能让你变得快乐。还有一种，会令你充满活力。如果纽约和加拿大的科学家测试发现，这些神奇大补丸里面可能只有磨成粉的稻米或家养植物，那又如何呢？只要有足够多的人相信自己会变得更健康，这就是一个不错的诈骗业务。
Nice, to the tune of $13 billion a year in sales. And here in Utah, which is to the dietary supplement business what Northern California is to marijuana, a huge industry has taken hold, complete with a network of doctors making unproven claims, well-connected lobbyists and entrenched politicians who keep regulators at bay.
对这门年销售额高达130亿美元（约合人民币800亿元）的生意而言，的确不错。膳食补充剂之于犹他州就像大麻之于北加州一样，是已经站稳脚跟的庞大产业，而且还有很多医生在推广未经证实的说法，人脉丰富的说客和根基深厚的政客则让监管机构无法对此加以约束。
If you want to know how we came to be a nation where everyone is a doctor, sound science is vilified and seemingly smart people distrust vaccinations, come to Utah — whose state flower should be St. John’s wort. Here, the nexus of quack pharma and industry-owned politicians has produced quite a windfall: nearly one in four dollars in the supplement market passes though this state.
在这个国家里，每个人都是医生，真正的科学遭到诋毁，看似聪明的人却不信任疫苗。如果你想知道我们怎么变成了这样的一个国家，那就到犹他州来——这里的州花应该是圣约翰草（美国流行多年的一种草药——译注）才对。在这里，补品业的奸商和为该行业服务的政客相互勾结，大发横财：在补品市场上，几乎每4美元中就有1美元流经了犹他州。
We’re not talking drugs, or even, in many cases, food here. Drugs have to undergo rigorous testing and review by the federal government. Dietary supplements do not. Drugs have to prove to be effective. Dietary supplements do not.
我们说的不是药物，而且在很多情况下，这些东西甚至连食品都算不上。药物必须经过联邦政府的严格测试和审核，膳食补充剂则不用。药物必须被证明是有效的，膳食补充剂则不必。
These are the Frankenstein remedies — botanicals, herbs, minerals, enzymes, amino acids, dried stuff. They’re “natural.” They’re not cheap. And Americans pop them like Skittles, despite recent studies showing that nearly a third of all herbal supplements on the market may be outright frauds.
这些是带有奇幻属性的玩意——植物、草药、矿物质、酶、氨基酸、干货等等。它们是“纯天然的”，而且不便宜。美国人像吃彩虹糖一样把它们往嘴里塞，尽管最近的多项研究显示，市场上的所有草药补充剂中，将近三分之一可能是彻头彻尾的假货。
The labels say Ginkgo biloba, or ginseng, or St. John’s wort. But testing announced by the state of New York this week found that the Ginkgo biloba sold by Walmart, for example, contained no Ginkgo biloba DNA — it was a mixture of rice, mustard, wheat and radish.
它们的标签上写着银杏、人参或圣约翰草。但是，纽约州本周宣布，测试发现一些标签内容虚假，比如沃尔玛(Walmart)出售的银杏制品根本不含银杏DNA，其实是由大米、芥末、小麦和萝卜混合而成。
Some of the country’s largest retailers are selling junk in a pill, a step removed from sawdust. Counting on the stupidity of consumers, the big chains don’t seem to care. As of Thursday, four days after Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general, asked retailers to pull the tested products from their shelves in his state, you could still go to Walmart online and buy the allegedly fraudulent products.
美国最大的一些零售商在售卖虚假药丸，其成分和木屑相差无几。然而，大型连锁店对此似乎并不在意，继续依靠消费者的愚蠢来赚钱。本周四，距离纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)要求各大零售商在该州下架那些涉嫌欺诈的产品已经过去四天了，你却仍然可以在沃尔玛的网站上购买到它们。
So, there is Spring Valley echinacea — with a bold label reading: Immune Health — selling for $8.98 a bottle on Walmart’s website. It comes with a handy “customer review,” touting an “Excellent quality product!” This about a substance that contained no echinacea, according to the attorney general.
看，春之谷(Spring Valley)推出的紫锥菊——其标签上醒目地写着：提升免疫系统健康——在沃尔玛网站上的售价为每瓶8.98美元。它提供了省心的“客户评价”，吹嘘其“品质优异！”可总检察长施耐德曼表示，该产品压根没有紫锥菊成分。
Too bad it takes Canada, or the maverick work of someone like the New York attorney general, to get at the truth of this industry, because it is so well-insulated from federal government oversight. Schneiderman’s investigation was prompted by an article in The New York Times Science section, reporting on Canadian findings that some of the most popular supplements were nothing but cheap fillers.
这个行业很好地避开了联邦政府的监管，要曝光其真相，还需要借助加拿大的力量，或是像纽约州总检察长这样的人采取大胆行动才行，这实在是糟糕。《纽约时报》科学版的一篇文章报道了加拿大的研究成果：一些最受欢迎的补品其实不过是廉价的填充剂。这促使施奈德曼开展了调查行动。
To understand how we got here, you have to go back to 1994, when Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah midwifed through Congress a new industry protected from all but minimal regulation. It is also an industry that would make many of his closest associates and family members rich. In turn, they’ve rewarded him with sizable campaign contributions.
要了解我们是如何走到这一步的，就必须追溯到1994年。当时，在犹他州联邦参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)的促进下，一个仅仅受到最低程度监管的新行业经由国会诞生了。这个行业让哈奇的许多亲信和家人大发横财。接下来，他们又用大量的竞选捐款来回报他。
Even though serious illnesses, and some deaths are on the rise from misuse of these supplements, Hatch is determined to keep regulators at bay. “I am committed to protect this industry and the integrity of its products,” he told a gathering of potency pill-pushers and the like in Utah last fall.
尽管滥用此类补品导致严重疾病乃至死亡的案例在增加，但哈奇决心让监管机构无计可施。“我将致力于保护这个行业，维护行业产品的品性正直，”去年秋天，他在犹他州的一个聚会上表示。出席这次活动是一群滥开补品的医生和类似人等。
In the past, Hatch has been remarkably blunt about helping his family and friends in the fake drug trade. “I do whatever they ask me to do many times because they’ve never asked me to do anything that is improper,” Hatch said in 2011. He was referring to the firm of his son, Scott Hatch, a longtime lobbyist for the supplement industry.
在过去，对于如何帮助亲朋从事此类假药生意的问题，哈奇毫不讳言。“他们有什么请求我都照做，已经有很多次了，因为他们从来没有让我做过任何不得体的事情，”哈奇2011年时说。他指的是自己的儿子、补品行业游说老手斯科特·哈奇(Scott Hatch)拥有的企业。
That’s the political side, an all-too-familiar story of mutual beneficiaries born in the halls of Congress. But what about the medical implications? These pills and powders can’t, by law, make specific claims to cure anything. So they claim to make you healthier. The consumer is left playing doctor, reading questionable assertions that course through the unfiltered garbage of the Internet.
这是事情的政治层面，而在国会大厅里发生的这种互惠互利的故事大家耳熟能详。但是，在医学层面上又如何呢？根据法律规定，这些药丸和粉末不能明确表示具有治疗功效。因此，它们就声称能让人变得更健康。消费者得给自己当医生，阅读互联网上一些经不起考验的论断，而它们其实是未经过滤的垃圾信息。
“There’s a lot of wrong information out there,” warns the American Cancer Society, in its tutorial on these products. “Even for those who are usually well informed, it can be hard to find reliable information about the safe use and potential risks of dietary supplements.”
美国癌症学会(American Cancer Society)发布了关于此类产品的指导意见，其中警告：“市面上流传着很多错误信息。对于膳食补充剂的安全使用方法和潜在风险，就连一些见多识广的人，恐怕都难以找到可靠的信息。”
And there was this finding reported in the authoritative Annals of Internal Medicine: “Enough is enough: Stop wasting money on vitamin and mineral supplements.” Oh, those elites at the American College of Physicians, what do they know?
权威刊物《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)也刊载了这样的研究：《忍无可忍：不要再在维生素和矿物质补充剂上花冤枉钱了》(Enough is enough: Stop wasting money on vitamin and mineral supplements)。哼，美国医师协会(American College of Physicians)的那帮精英人士啊，他们懂啥？
So, the industry keeps growing, with 65,000 dietary supplements now on the market, consumed by nearly half of all Americans. The larger issue is mistrust of authority, a willful ignorance that knows no political side. Thus, right-wing libertarians promote a freewheeling market of quack products, while left-wing conspiracy theorists disdain modern medicine in favor of anything sold as “natural” or vaguely countercultural. These are some of the same people who will not vaccinate their children.
结果，这个行业不断发展壮大，目前市面上有6.5万种膳食补充剂，消费者覆盖了近一半的美国人口。更大的问题在于：对权威的不信任，以及跨越政治派别的执意无知。因此，右翼自由意志主义者支持这些骗人的产品拥有不受监管的市场，而左翼阴谋论者不屑于现代医学，反而对任何标榜“纯天然”或者些许反主流文化意味的东西都加以支持。在他们之中，正好与某些不让自己的孩子接种疫苗的人重合。