MUMBAI, India — More than 1,000 people have died in floods across South Asia this summer, and as sheets of incessant rain pummeled the vast region on Tuesday, worries grew that the death toll would rise along with the floodwaters.
印度孟买——今夏已有1000余人死于南亚各地的洪水，鉴于周二大片地区连降大雨，人们愈发担心死亡人数会随着洪水的肆虐而攀升。
According to the United Nations, at least 41 million people in Bangladesh, India and Nepal have been directly affected by flooding and landslides resulting from the monsoon rains, which usually begin in June and last until September.
联合国称，在孟加拉国、印度和尼泊尔，已有至少4100万人直接受到由季风性降雨引发的洪水和山体滑坡的影响。季风性降雨通常始于六月，一直持续到九月。
And while flooding in the Houston area has grabbed more attention, aid officials say a catastrophe is unfolding in South Asia.
而救援官员称，在美国休斯敦地区的洪水获得更多关注的同时，灾难正在南亚蔓延。
In Nepal, thousands of homes have been destroyed and dozens of people swept away. Elephants were pressed into service, wading through swirling waters to rescue people, and aid workers have built rafts from bamboo and banana leaves.
在尼泊尔，成千上万的房屋被摧毁，几十上百人被洪水卷走。大象被投入使用，趟过打旋的水流去救人；援助人员用竹子和蕉叶制作了筏子。
But many people are still missing, and some families have held last rites without their loved ones’ bodies being found.
但仍有很多人处于失踪状态，一些家庭在没找到亲人遗骸的情况下举办了丧礼。
“This is the severest flooding in a number of years,” Francis Markus, a spokesman for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, said by phone from Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital.
“这是多年来最严重的洪灾，”红十字会与红新月会国际联合会(International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies)发言人弗朗西斯·马库斯(Francis Markus)在尼泊尔首都加德满都接受电话采访时说。
India has also suffered immensely. Floods have swept across the states of Assam, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and other areas.
印度也遭受了巨大的损失。阿萨姆邦、比哈尔邦、奥迪沙邦、西孟加拉邦以及其他一些地区都出现洪灾。
This weekend, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flew over the devastation in Bihar, where more than 400 people are believed to have died in floods in recent weeks. He pledged millions of dollars in assistance and urged insurance companies to send in assessors as soon as possible to help farmers cope with their loses.
周末，印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)乘飞机勘查了比哈尔邦的灾情。在那里，近几周据信共有400余人死于洪水。他承诺提供数以百万美元计的援助资金，并敦促保险公司尽快派出评估员，帮助农民应对损失。
And the rain keeps coming.
而降雨仍在继续。
On Tuesday, Mumbai, the sprawling financial capital, was soaked to the bone. Nearly all day, the rain drummed down. As people scurried up the sidewalks, the wind tore umbrellas out of their hands.
周二，庞大的金融中心孟买遭遇倾盆大雨。雨几乎下了一整天。人们在人行道上匆忙前行时，风大到了会把雨伞从他们手中刮走的程度。
The monsoons have battered Bangladesh as well. A low-lying and densely populated country of 165 million, Bangladesh is chronically ravaged by flooding. This year’s monsoons have left roughly a third of its terrain submerged.
季风也给孟加拉造成了破坏。拥有1.65亿人口的孟加拉是一个人口稠密、地势低洼的国家，长期受到洪水的蹂躏。今年的季风已经让该国境内约三分之一的地方被淹。
The International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent said on its website that more than 8 million Bangladeshis had been affected by the flooding, the worst in 40 years. At least 140 people have died and nearly 700,000 homes have been damaged or destroyed.
红十字会与红新月会国际联合会(International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent)在其网站上称，已有超过800万孟加拉人受到洪水影响，灾情是40年来最严重的一次。至少140人丧生，近70万处房屋受损或被毁。