FOR more than two hours, Nancy Reagan sat behind the artist Everett Raymond Kinstler as he painted her husband’s portrait in his New York City studio shortly after the Reagans left the White House. Mr. Kinstler, who had done several portraits of President Gerald Ford, was unnerved by Mrs. Reagan’s intensity. “It was terribly distracting,” he recalled. When he asked if she would wait in the living room, Mrs. Reagan replied, unmoved, “No, I really would like to stay here while you work.”
里根一家离开白宫后不久，画家埃弗里特·雷蒙德·金斯特勒(Everett Raymond Kinstler)在其纽约的工作室内给里根画肖像。在两个多小时的时间里，南希·里根(Nancy Reagan)一直坐在他身后。金斯特勒已为杰拉尔德·福特(Gerald Ford)总统画过多幅肖像，但南希的气场令他感到不安。“严重分散了我的注意力，”他回忆说。当他问南希是否愿意去客厅等候时，南希不为所动地回答说，“不，我就想待在这里，你工作你的。”
That was classic Nancy Reagan. Since her death on Sunday, she has been remembered as a powerful and stylish first lady. But she was much more than that. Many ambitious women have filled the role of presidential spouse. Mrs. Reagan understood better than any of them how to use the position to control her husband’s image and legacy.
这正是典型的南希·里根。自从周日去世后，她一直被当做一位有影响力的、时尚的第一夫人来缅怀。但她远不仅限于有影响力和时尚。很多胸怀壮志的女性曾当过总统夫人，但对于如何利用这个位置来控制丈夫的形象和政治遗产，南希比其他所有人都更清楚。
The title of first lady comes with a thorny combination of intense scrutiny, an incredible platform and no official mandate. We have traditionally seen the first lady as the embodiment of American womanhood, but that view is on its way out; largely thanks to Hillary Clinton, we’re now more likely to see the first union as a political alliance between equals.
伴随着第一夫人头衔而来的，是广泛的关注、难得的平台和非正式的权力。这三者结合在了一起，令人棘手。我们传统上认为第一夫人是美国女性气质的化身，但这种观点已经变得过时。在很大程度上是因为希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，我们现在才更乐于把第一夫妇看作是两个对等人物之间的政治联盟。
Many first ladies have been unhappy in the role. Martha Washington called herself a “state prisoner.” Jacqueline Kennedy proclaimed: “The one thing I do not want to be called is ‘first lady.’ It sounds like a saddle horse.” And Michelle Obama says that living in the White House is like living in a “really nice prison.” Mrs. Reagan, however, was unabashedly proud of her hard-won position and even put “first lady” as her occupation on her income tax forms.
很多人在担任第一夫人期间感到不开心。玛莎·华盛顿(Martha Washington)称自己是“国家囚犯”。杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)宣称：“我不想被叫做‘第一夫人’。听起来像是马被安上了马鞍。”米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)说，住在白宫就像住在一座“很漂亮的监狱”里。但里根夫人却丝毫不掩饰自己对这个来之不易的位置抱有的自豪，甚至还在自己所得税表格上的职业一栏中，写上了“第一夫人”。
She was crucial to her husband’s electoral success: cultivating wealthy California friends who could aid his first campaign for governor in the 1960s and eventually get him to the White House. “She was the human resources department,” says a Reagan political consultant, Stuart Spencer, because she helped decide who was in her husband’s cabinet.
南希对她丈夫在选举中取胜至关重要：她与加利福尼亚州的富豪结为朋友，后者先是帮助她丈夫在60年代首次竞选州长，后来又助他入主白宫。“她就是人力资源部，”里根的政治顾问斯图尔特·斯潘塞(Stuart Spencer)说，因为她参与决定了丈夫的内阁名单。
Mrs. Reagan was content because she defined the role in a uniquely ambitious — and covert — way. There was no West Wing office like the one Mrs. Clinton had, nor sitting in on cabinet meetings like Rosalynn Carter. Mrs. Reagan insisted that it would have been “embarrassing” to attend such high-level meetings. But in many ways she wielded as much power as either of these women. “I talk to people, they tell me things. And if something is about to become a problem I’m not above calling a staff person and asking about it,” Mrs. Reagan said in a 1987 speech. “I’m a woman who loves her husband and I make no apologies for looking out for his personal and political welfare.”
南希心满意足，因为她以一种大胆和隐秘得别具一格的方式定义了这个角色。那时候，南希还不像希拉里·克林顿一样，在白宫西配楼(West Wing)有自己的办公室，也不像罗丝琳·卡特(Rosalynn Carter)那样，列席总统的内阁会议。南希坚持认为，参加这种高层会议会“令人尴尬”。但她通过很多方式行使的权力，并不比其他任何一位第一夫人少。“我会和人交谈，他们会告诉我一些事情。如果某件事要出问题了，我不在乎打电话给工作人员，问问是怎么回事，”南希在1987年的一次演讲中说。“我是一个女人，我爱我的丈夫，我不会为关心他的个人和政治利益而道歉。”
President Reagan was a ready recipient of her steady guidance, and she performed the tasks, including firing underlings, which he found distasteful. Her love and loyalty were returned. On their anniversary in 1981 the president left her a note, telling her that he “scrooches down” at his desk in the Oval Office so he could see her window.
里根总统总是乐于接受她不断的指导，尽管她做的某些事情会让他反感，包括解雇下属。她对他的爱和忠诚得到了回报。1981年的结婚周年纪念日那天，里根总统给妻子留言，说他会在椭圆形办公室的办公桌旁边“蹲下来”，这样就能看到她的窗户了。
Susan Porter Rose, who was Barbara Bush’s chief of staff when George H. W. Bush was vice president, remembers seeing the Reagans after an event and watching as the elevator door opened to carry the first lady to the second-floor residence. “He was going to go back to the Oval, and he just put his hand on top of hers and looked at her and said, ‘I so wish I didn’t have to go back to the office.’ ”
苏珊·波特·罗斯(Susan Porter Rose)曾在乔治·H·W·布什(George H. W. Bush)当副总统时担任芭芭拉·布什(Barbara Bush)的幕僚长。她记得在一次活动结束后看到里根夫妇时的情形。她看到电梯门开了，第一夫人将要去二楼的生活区。“他还要回椭圆形办公室。他把一只手放在妻子的手上，看着她说，‘真希望不用回办公室’。”
Mrs. Reagan’s image as an imperial first lady — she was referred to contemptuously in the press as “Queen Nancy” — was amplified by her more than $200,000 purchase of a new set of china (through private donations) and not helped by revelations that she spent $25,000 on her inaugural wardrobe and $10,000 on a single gown.
在媒体上，南希被轻蔑地称作“南希女王”(Queen Nancy)。她曾花费20多万美元（资金来自私人捐赠）购置了一套崭新的瓷器，她华贵的第一夫人形象，因此被放大了。此外，她为参加总统就职典礼豪掷2.5万美元购置服装，单一件礼服就花了1万美元，也都影响了她的形象。
But this wasn’t mere vanity. Mrs. Reagan understood the physical power of the executive mansion better than any first lady before her, with the exception of Mrs. Kennedy. Before the historic visit of Mikhail Gorbachev and his wife, Raisa, in 1987, Mrs. Reagan and her social secretary made a visit to the flower shop in the White House basement. The first lady gave simple instructions to “blow” Mrs. Gorbachev’s “socks off.”
但这些并不仅仅是虚荣。除了杰奎琳之外，南希比所有的前第一夫人，都更了解白宫显露在外的权力。米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)和妻子赖莎(Raisa)在1987年对白宫进行历史性的访问之前，南希和她的社交秘书去了白宫地下室的花店一趟。第一夫人只是简单地吩咐要让赖莎惊艳。
“So we did,” recalled a florist, Ronn Payne. “We changed every single flower in the house three times in one day: for the morning arrival, for the afternoon lunch, and for the state dinner. Every single flower, three times, every one.”
“我们做到了，”花店员工罗恩·佩恩(Ronn Payne)说。“一天之内房子里所有的鲜花都换了三次：分别是早上抵达、午餐和国宴准备的。每一朵花都换了三次。”
Mrs. Reagan was a self-proclaimed worrier, and her concerns became all-consuming after the attempt on her husband’s life months into his presidency. She referred to the period after the assassination attempt as “the lost year.” She insisted that her husband go to the residence to take an afternoon nap. If she found him at his desk working, she would tell him: “Horizontal. I want you horizontal.”
南希·里根自称是一个容易担心的人。当上总统几个月后，有人企图要里根的命。在那之后，南希的担忧变得愈发强烈。她把刺杀活动之后的那段时间称作“失去的一年”。她坚持要求丈夫回生活区午睡一小会儿。如果发现他在伏案工作，她便会对他说：“躺下。我让你躺下。”
As first lady she built walls around herself so that she could get the job done. But she was heartbroken when her favorite White House doorman died, and she was deeply saddened when the actress Katharine Hepburn ended their friendship because of their political differences.
作为第一夫人，她仿佛在自己的身边筑起了一道道墙，这样她才能完成自己的工作。但当她最喜欢的白宫门卫去世时，她伤心至极。女演员凯瑟琳·赫本(Katharine Hepburn)因政见不同而结束与她的友谊时，南希也深感痛心。
Few people could intimidate Nancy Reagan, a woman who reveled in the power of her position, but during the portrait sitting with Mr. Kinstler, Mrs. Reagan noticed several paintings of Hepburn on the walls of his studio and reminisced about her old friend. When Mr. Kinstler picked up the phone and got Hepburn on the line, Mrs. Reagan suddenly became shy and pushed the receiver away. “No, you talk to her first,” she said.
几乎没有谁能让南希·里根感到惧怕，她醉心于自己的地位所带来的权力。但坐在金斯特勒旁边看他作画期间，南希注意到他工作室的墙上有几幅画着赫本的画。她回忆起了这位老朋友。当金斯特勒打电话找到赫本时，南希却突然变得胆怯起来，并推开了听筒。“不，你们先聊，”她说。