SYDNEY, Australia — Aircraft and ships rushed to scour a remote stretch of the southern Indian Ocean on Thursday after satellite photographs showed tantalizing glimpses of two large floating objects that might be pieces of the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner. But the first searchers on the scene could not find the objects.
澳大利亚悉尼——周四，飞机和船舰急速赶往印度洋南部的一片偏远海域进行搜寻，因为卫星照片显示了两个大型漂浮物体，可能是马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)失联飞机的残骸，令人十分激动。然而，第一批到达现场的搜索人员无法找到这些物体。
A P-3 Orion aircraft dispatched by the Royal Australian Air Force was “unable to locate debris — cloud and rain limited visibility,” according to a Twitter message posted by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which is managing the search in that part of the ocean. A United States Navy P-8A Poseidon also searched in the area and returned to a base near Perth, Australia, after finding “nothing of significance to report,” according to a message from the Seventh Fleet, which is overseeing the American military contribution to the search.
负责搜索该海域的澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)在Twitter上发布信息称，由澳大利亚皇家空军( Royal Australian Air Force)派遣的一架猎户座(Orion)飞机“无法找到碎片，能见度因为云和雨而受限”。负责美军搜索工作的美国第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)则透露，美国海军的一架P-8A海神(P-8A Poseidon)巡逻机也前往该区域进行了搜索，“没有找到值得报告的东西”，之后便回到了澳大利亚佩斯附近的基地。
The Maritime Safety Authority said Friday’s search of the area, which is 2,500 kilometers, or 1,500 miles, southwest of Perth on Australia’s west coast, would include four military aircraft, including two Royal Australian Air Force Orion planes.
澳大利亚海事安全局表示，周五将有四架军用飞机参与该区域的搜索工作，其中包括澳大利亚皇家空军的两架猎户座飞机。该区域位于澳大利亚西海岸佩斯西南方向大约2500公里的地方。
“A total of six merchant ships have assisted in the search,” the authority said.
澳大利亚当局表示，“共有六艘商船协助了搜索工作。”
The stretch of ocean where the objects were spotted is remote and little traveled. But a cargo ship that happened to be relatively close, bound for Melbourne, Australia, from the island of Mauritius, was diverted south from its usual route two days ago at the request of the Australian authorities. It reached the area of the satellite sighting late on Wednesday, the first ship to arrive there, but it also saw nothing on Thursday. An Australian naval vessel dispatched to the area, the Success, was still several days away.
卫星发现物体的海域非常遥远，人迹罕至。不过，一艘从毛里求斯前往澳大利亚墨尔本的货轮碰巧处在相对较近的位置。应澳大利亚当局的要求，这艘货轮在两天前改变了通常的航线，向南行进。该货轮于周三晚间到达了卫星发现物体的区域，然而，这艘率先到达现场的船只周四也无所发现。奉命前往该区域的澳大利亚海军舰船“成功号”(Success)还需要几天才能抵达。
Executives of Hoegh Autoliners, the Norwegian owners of the cargo ship, said at a news conference in Oslo on Thursday that the ship and its crew of 19 were at the authorities’ disposal and would remain in the area as long as needed. Ingar Skiaker, the company’s chief executive, and Sebjorn Dahl, its head of human resources, said the vessel, a car carrier named the St. Petersburg, had radar equipment and powerful searchlights that would be used to scan the ocean surface around the clock.
前述货轮属于挪威的诺航滚装航运有限公司(Hoegh Autoliners)，公司高管周四在奥斯陆的新闻发布会上表示，这艘货轮及其19名船员现在由澳大利亚当局支配，只要有需要就会留在该海域。公司首席执行官因格尔·斯基亚克 (Ingar Skiaker)及人力资源主管塞布约恩·达尔(Sebjorn Dahl)表示，这艘名为“圣彼得堡号”(St. Petersburg)的汽车运输船配有雷达装置及强力探照灯，可以全天候扫描海面。
The plane, Flight 370, with 227 passengers and a crew of 12, took off from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in the early hours of March 8 bound for Beijing, and stopped communicating with ground controllers about 40 minutes later. For more than an hour, military radar tracked a plane that was probably Flight 370, veering sharply off the original course and flying west toward the Indian Ocean; automatic satellite signals emitted by the plane suggested that it kept flying for hours after that, with the last signal detected about a half-hour before it would have exhausted its fuel.
载有227名乘客和12名机组人员的370航班于3月8日凌晨从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京，在起飞大约40分钟后停止了与地面控制人员的通讯。在一个多小时的时间里，军用雷达追踪到了一架疑似370航班的飞机，该飞机大幅偏离预定航线，向西飞往印度洋。飞机自动发出的卫星信号说明，该飞机继续飞行了数小时，最后一次探测到飞机信号的时间距离飞机耗尽燃料还有大约半个小时。
By that point, the signals indicated, the plane was probably somewhere along a broad arc sweeping from Central Asia through Southeast Asia and out into the ocean; officials are concentrating on the southern portion of the arc as the most likely area, and that is roughly where the floating objects were seen.
这些信号说明，当时飞机可能在一条穿越中亚、东南亚进入印度洋的广阔弧线上的某个地方。官员们目前以南段弧线为重点，认为这片区域的可能性最大，发现前述漂浮物体的地方大致也在这片区域。
John Young, the general manager of the Australian Maritime Safety Authority’s emergency response division, sought on Thursday to moderate any hopes that parts of the jet might finally have been found after 12 days. He said the southern Indian Ocean was liable to contain some large pieces of debris, like containers lost overboard from merchant vessels.
周四，澳大利亚海事安全局应急响应部门负责人约翰·扬(John Young)试图让人们冷静下来，不要就此认为飞机残片已在飞机失踪12天后最终找到。他表示，南印度洋可能存在其他一些大型的垃圾，比如从商船上滚下来的集装箱。
One of the floating objects, he said, appeared to be around 24 meters (79 feet) long, but he could not say what shape it was or whether it had markings on it that would identify it. The other appeared to be about 5 meters (16 feet) long, he said. “The fact there are a number located in the same area makes it worth looking at,” Mr. Young said at a news conference in Canberra, calling the sighting “probably the best lead we have right now.”
他表示，其中一个物体似乎长约24米，但他说不出它的形状，也说不出上面是否有表明其身份的标记，另一个物体的长度似乎是5米左右。扬在堪培拉的新闻发布会上表示，“有多个物体位于同一区域的事实值得关注”，并称这个发现“可能是我们目前拥有的最有价值的线索”。
The satellite images, which were released to the public, are dated March 16. “The imagery has been progressively captured by satellites passing over various areas,” John McGarry, air commodore of the Royal Australian Air Force, said at the Canberra news conference. “The task of analyzing the imagery is quite difficult. It requires drawing down frames and going through it frame by frame.” He added that the images were passed to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority as soon the signs of floating debris were discovered.
已向公众公布的这些卫星图像的日期是3月16日。“图像是由经过不同区域的卫星逐步捕捉的，”澳大利亚皇家空军(Royal Australian Air Force)的空军准将约翰·麦加里(John McGarry)在堪培拉的新闻发布会上说。“分析图像的工作十分困难，需要分析人员抽出分帧图像，然后再逐帧进行检查。”他还说，发现漂浮残骸的迹象之后，这些图像立即被交给了澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)。
A senior American investigator said he was “highly skeptical” that the debris spotted on satellite came from an airplane. “I’ve seen the pictures,” he said. “Those pieces are pretty damned big.”
美国的一名高级调查人员称，他“非常怀疑”卫星发现的残骸来自一架飞机。“我看过图片，”他说。“这些东西大得太离谱了。”
In a crash, he said, the airplane usually breaks up into smaller pieces. 
他说，在空难事故中，飞机往往会崩解成较小的碎片。
If he is correct, it would be the second large piece of debris that was initially identified as possibly being part of the plane and turned out to be something else; a few days after the crash, the Chinese released a satellite picture of something they said might be wreckage from a Boeing 777. It was also too big.
如果他的说法正确，那么这将是第二件刚开始被认为可能是飞机残骸、最后却被证明并非如此的东西；事故发生几天后，中方曾发布一张卫星图像，说上面的物体可能是波音(Boeing)777飞机的残骸。那个物体也太大了。
The investigator also said that a review of the cargo manifest showed that the plane was carrying lithium batteries, but that this was not unusual, and that the plane’s pattern of movements, as recorded by radar, “wouldn’t fit with any known inflight fire we’ve had to date.”
这名调查人员还说，检查完货物舱单之后，人们发现飞机上载有锂电池，但这种情况并不少见，而且根据雷达记录，飞机的运动模式“与我们迄今所见的所有飞行中起火事故都不一样”。
Hishammuddin Hussein, the defense minister of Malaysia, which is in overall charge of the search and investigation into the plane’s disappearance, said at a news conference near Kuala Lumpur later on Thursday that the information from Australia had been “actually corroborated to a certain extent from other satellites.” He did not elaborate.
周四晚些时候，全面负责MH370搜寻及调查工作的马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)在吉隆坡附近的新闻发布会上说，来自澳大利亚的信息“其实在一定程度上证实了其他卫星发回的信息”。他没有提供详细解释。
Cmdr. William J. Marks, spokesman for the Seventh Fleet, said on Wednesday that if the ocean search turned up suspected debris, aircraft would fly over it at close range and use electro-optical and infrared camera equipment, which can discern objects much more sharply than a naked human eye, to identify it. The aircraft, he added, “could provide the necessary information to lead salvage ships to the wreckage.”
美国第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)发言人威廉·J·马克斯中校(Cmdr. William J. Marks)周三说，如果能在海洋搜索中找到疑似残骸，就会派飞机飞到距离较近的地方，用电光和红外照相设备对其进行识别，这些设备分辨物体的能力比人类裸眼强得多。他还说，飞机“可以提供必须的信息，引领救援船只前往残骸”。
The P-8A Poseidon search plane was able to spend about three hours over the area where investigators believed the debris would be, and a similar flight was planned for Friday, Commander Marks said in an email on Friday.
前述P-8A海神飞机可以在调查人员认定的飞机残骸所在海域上空工作大约三个小时；马克斯中校周五在一封电子邮件中说，他们周五还将派飞机进行一次这样的搜索。
The Success, the Australian naval vessel on its way to the area, “is well equipped to recover any objects located and proven to be from MH370,” the Australian maritime authority said in a statement.
澳大利亚海事官员在一份声明中称，正赶往该地区的澳大利亚海军“成功号”舰艇“已经做好了充分的准备，将会打捞确定与MH370有关的任何物体”。
Tim Farrar, a former systems engineer in California who advises companies on satellite and telecommunications issues, said the investigators appeared to have identified the target area using the plane’s final satellite signal and assuming that it was flying a straight course at a steady speed toward the Southern Ocean and Antarctica.
为企业担任卫星和通讯顾问的加州前系统工程师蒂姆·法拉尔(Tim Farrar)说，调查人员确定目标区域的方法似乎是以飞机最后的卫星讯号为依据，并假定飞机以稳定速度直线飞向南大洋和南极洲。
“If debris from the plane is found in the predicted area, that suggests that the plane would not have been under active pilot control during the last few hours of flight,” Mr. Farrar said in an interview. “The assumption is if you’re going off into the Southern Ocean, presumably the pilots were incapacitated by a fire or something, and it was flying on autopilot until the fuel ran out.”
“如果能在他们认定的这个区域找到飞机残骸，就说明飞机在最后几小时的飞行过程中并非处于飞行员的主动控制之下，”法拉尔在采访中说。“如果飞机飞到了南大洋，就可以推断飞行员当时因为起火或其他事情而失去了行动能力，所以飞机是在自动驾驶状态下飞行，直到燃料耗尽。”