When a ship carrying scientists and adventure tourists became stuck in ice in the Antarctic late last month, climate change skeptics had a field day. On Twitter and other social media sites, they pointed out that a group whose journey was meant to highlight the effects of global warming was trapped by a substance that was supposed to be melting.
上月末，当一艘载着科学家和探险游客的船只受困南极冰层之时，气候变化的怀疑者倍感兴奋。他们开始在Twitter和其他社交媒体网站上指出，这群人此行原本是为了强调全球变暖的影响，最后却被据说正在消融的物质困住了。
“Global warming idiots out of danger,” one noted when the ship’s 52 passengers were finally helicoptered to safety Thursday after more than a week on the ice.
“认为全球变暖的白痴们脱险了，”当船上的52名乘客于周四被直升机转移到安全地带时，有人如是指出。当时，乘客们已经在冰上度过了一周多的时间。
The episode had little connection to climate change — shifting winds had caused loose pack ice to jam against the ship — and this was far from the first time that a ship had been trapped, even in the Antarctic summer. But sea ice cover in the Antarctic is changing, and scientists see the influence of climate change, although they say natural climate variability may be at work, too.
此事与气候变化没什么联系，只是方向多变的风使松散的浮冰挡住了船只，这也绝对不是船只首次被困，哪怕是在南极的夏季。但是，南极的海冰层正在变化，科学家确实看到了气候变化的影响，虽然他们说，自然气候变化可能也在发挥作用。
“The truth is, we don’t fully understand what’s going on,” said Ted Maksym, a researcher at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
“事实是我们并没有完全领会目前的情况，”伍兹霍尔海洋研究所(Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)的研究员泰德·马克西姆(Ted Maksym)说。
Unlike the Arctic, where sharp declines in recent decades in the ice that floats on sea surfaces have been linked to warming, sea ice in the Antarctic has actually increased, scientists who study the region say. Averaged over the entire Antarctic coast, the increase is slight — about 1 percent a decade. At the same time, larger increases and decreases are being seen on certain parts of the continent.
最近几十年，北冰洋表面的浮冰急剧减少，人们将此归因于气候变暖；研究南极的科学家称，与北极不同，南极的海冰实际上有所增加。从整个南极海岸的平均水平来看，海冰增加的幅度并不大——大约是每10年增加1%。同时，南极大陆某些地区还出现了海冰大幅增加或减少的现象。
“We’re constantly struggling against that statement, that Antarctic ice is increasing,” said Sharon E. Stammerjohn, a scientist at the Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research at the University of Colorado. “It misses key changes that are happening. And there are really strong climate signals in those changes.”
“我们一直在与南极冰层正在增长的说法争辩，”科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)北极与高山研究所(Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research)的科学家莎伦·E·施塔默约翰(Sharon E. Stammerjohn)说。“这个说法没有考虑一些正在发生的关键变化。这些变化真的包含着强烈的气候讯号。”
Most of the sea ice changes are occurring in an area covering about a third of the Antarctic coast, from the Ross Sea to the Bellingshausen Sea and the Antarctic Peninsula, said Paul Holland, a researcher with the British Antarctic Survey. Areas around the Ross Sea, for example, have seen large increases in ice, while in the Bellingshausen and along the peninsula, ice cover has declined sharply. (The area where the research ship became stuck, west of the Ross Sea, has had a slight increase in ice cover over the past 35 years.)
英国南极调查局(British Antarctic Survey)的研究员保罗·霍兰(Paul Holland)说，大多数海冰变化都发生在从罗斯海(Ross Sea)到别林斯高晋海(Bellingshausen Sea)和南极半岛(Antarctic Peninsula)的区域，该区域面积大约占南极海岸的三分之一。例如，罗斯海周边区域的海冰出现了大幅度增加，别林斯高晋海和南极半岛沿岸的冰层则已大幅度减少。（过去35年，在科考船此次被困的罗斯海西部海域，冰层轻微的增加。）
Researchers agree that the changes in those seas are related to north-south winds that circulate clockwise around a stationary zone of increasingly lower-pressure air. That brings warmer air from the north into the Bellingshausen Sea and peninsula, pushing ice against the coast and melting some of it, and colder air from the south into the Ross Sea, which spreads the ice away from the coast and creates more of it.
研究人员一致认为，那些海域的变化和南北风有关，这些风以顺时针方向围绕着一片气压越来越低的静态区域刮。这种情形把北方的暖空气带进别林斯高晋海和南极半岛，把海冰推向岸边，导致部分海冰融化，又把来自南边的冷空气送入罗斯海，把海冰推离岸边，同时形成更多的冰。
But why that low-pressure air is getting lower is still a subject of debate.
然而，前述区域的气压为何越来越低，这一点还存在争议。
Scientists say that increases in greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere, as well as depletion of atmospheric ozone, have changed temperature gradients from the tropics to the poles, which affects atmospheric circulation.
科学家表示，大气中温室气体浓度的增加，以及臭氧层的破坏，已经改变了从热带到两极地区的温度梯度，影响了大气环流。
“There are clear signals of winds increasing due to climate change” in the Southern Ocean around the Antarctic, Dr. Stammerjohn said. Those intensifying winds might be affecting the low-pressure zone, she said, but there are also other factors that do not rule out natural variability.
施塔默约翰博士说，在围绕南极地区的南冰洋，“有明显的迹象表明，气候变化导致风越来越多。”她还说，那些日渐增多的风可能正在影响前述低压区域，但也有其他因素，包括自然变化。
“The jury is definitely still out on that,” Dr. Stammerjohn said.
“这一点尚无定论，”施塔默约翰博士说。
Whatever the explanation, much of the Bellingshausen is now ice free for long periods each summer. That allows the relatively warmer waters of the Southern Ocean to flow more freely to the more permanent ice that extends from the land in glaciers and sheets.
不管原因是什么，如今每到夏天，别林斯高晋海的大片区域在很长一段时间里都不结冰。这使南冰洋温度相对较高的海水可以更自由地流向那些更为持久的冰，那些冰以冰川或冰盖的形式从陆地延伸到海里。
“The combination of the warm ocean and the effects of waves on these glaciers may increase the rate of loss of glacial ice,” Dr. Maksym said.
“温暖的海水，再加上海浪对冰川的冲击，可能增加了冰川冰的损耗率，”马克西姆博士说。
The consensus now is that there is a net loss of ice from Antarctica’s ice sheets and glaciers, Dr. Maksym added, and it is the melting of this ice, rather than any loss of sea ice, that concerns scientists who study sea-level increases.
马克西姆博士补充说，现在的共识是，南极洲冰盖和冰川里的冰出现了净损失，研究海平面升高问题的科学家担心的正是这些冰的融化问题，而非海面浮冰的减少。
He cautioned that there was still a lot unknown about Antarctic sea ice, which has been studied far less than Arctic ice. In many ways the regions are opposites — the Arctic is an ocean largely hemmed in by land, while Antarctica is a land mass surrounded by a vast open ocean — so lessons learned from studying one do not necessarily apply to the other.
他警告称，关于南极的海面浮冰还有很多未知，和北冰洋的冰相比，人们对南极海冰的研究要少得多。在很多方面，这两个地区都截然相反——北极是一片几乎被陆地环绕的海洋，南极则是被一片巨大的开放海域环绕的一个大陆——因此，关于其中一个的研究发现并不一定适用于另外一个。
“The skeptics do have a good point,” Dr. Maksym said. “Why are we not paying as much attention to what’s going on in the Antarctic? There are good reasons to figure out why these changes are happening.”
“那些怀疑论者有一点说得没错，”马克西姆博士说，“我们为什么不对南极的情况给予同样多的关注呢？我们确实有必要弄清楚，为什么会发生这些变化。”