After years of protests by animal rights crusaders, a Chinese airline has said it will no longer transport monkeys and other primates used for laboratory experiments.
经过大力倡导动物福利的维权人士数年的抗议，一家中国航空公司表示，将不再运送用于实验的猴子等灵长类动物。
China Southern Airlines, a state-owned carrier, has decided to “stop transporting live primates for laboratory experiments on all flights,” Chen Qiuhua, the airline’s chief manager of special cargo transportation, told the animal welfare organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.
国有航空公司中国南方航空(China Southern Airlines)决定，“所有航班将停止运送用于活体实验的灵长类动物，”南航高级货运经理陈秋桦对善待动物组织（People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals，简称PETA）表示。
The decision was effective immediately, Mr. Chen wrote in an email to PETA on Friday. “We truly request PETA to stop protests against China Southern Airlines,” it said.
陈秋桦在上周五发给PETA的电子邮件中写道，这个决定立即生效。邮件中说，“我们诚挚地请求PETA不要再对南航进行抗议。”
PETA was quick to celebrate.
PETA很快就发表声明表示庆祝。
“PETA is thrilled that China Southern Airlines has finally recognized that cruelty shouldn’t fly,” Justin Goodman, director of PETA’s Laboratory Investigations Department, said in a statement.
PETA的实验室调查部门主管贾斯汀·古德曼(Justin Goodman)在声明中说，“中国南方航空终于承认了，不应该让暴行搭乘飞机。PETA对此深感振奋。”
Helen Han, the airline’s cargo manager at O’Hare International Airport in Chicago, where the animals were delivered to the United States, confirmed on Wednesday that the shipments had been terminated.
送往美国的动物过去会抵达芝加哥奥黑尔国际机场(O’Hare International Airport)。这家航空公司驻奥黑尔的货运主管海伦·韩(Helen Han)周三确认，此类运输已经终止。
For years PETA has campaigned aggressively against international airlines transporting monkeys and other primates for use in laboratory experiments. Protesters in chimpanzee costumes have startled travelers at airports in North America and Asia.
多年来，PETA一直在积极抗议，反对国际航空公司运送用于实验的猴子等灵长类动物。在亚洲和北美的多个机场，穿着黑猩猩服装的抗议者让旅客受到了惊吓。
About four months ago, PETA purchased shares of China Southern Airlines so its representatives could attend shareholder meetings and directly lobby company executives, said the organization’s laboratory campaigns manager, Jeremy Beckham, in a telephone interview. However, China Southern announced its policy change before PETA had a chance to apply its shareholder’s leverage on the company.
PETA的实验室维权主管杰里米·贝克姆(Jeremy Beckham)在接受电话采访时透露，四个月前，PETA购买了南航的部分股票，这样一来PETA的代表就可以参加股东大会，并直接游说公司的高管。不过，南航宣布修改这项政策时，PETA还没有机会向它施展股东的影响力。
Putting pressure on airlines is an effective tactic because it makes it harder and more expensive for laboratories to obtain experimental animals, Mr. Beckham said.
贝克姆说，向航空公司施加压力是一个有效的策略，因为这可以让实验室更难获取实验用的动物，同时提高相应的成本。
“Laboratories in the States and the E.U. want to get their hands on monkeys who were bred in the squalid monkey factory farms in China and Vietnam,” he said. If PETA can close off China, he said, “it may create an incentive” for the laboratories to find alternatives to conducting experiments on live animals because they won’t be able to “get their hands on as many cheap monkeys.”
“美国和欧洲的实验室想要弄到中国和越南的养猴场里养殖的猴子，而那些工厂式的养猴场肮脏龌龊，”他说。如果PETA能够封锁中国的运猴路线，因为实验室“弄不到那么多便宜的猴子”，这样“就能创造一种激励机制”，促使它们寻找其他途径，而不是对活的动物开展实验。
The use of animals in laboratories is unlikely to end soon in China, however.
然而在中国，利用动物进行实验的做法并不会很快停止。
“To say animal testing is totally unnecessary is just not telling the whole story,” said Huang Ren, director of the Guangdong Laboratory Animals Monitoring Institute, a government-run inspector of the breeding and use of laboratory animals in Guangdong Province. “We don’t really have an alternative to testing on nonhuman primates for the purpose of gaining new knowledge and advancing human health.”
“认为动物试验可以被替代的结论可能不尽然，”广东省实验动物监测所所长黄韧表示。“为了获取新的知识，增进人类健康，目前还是免不了用非人类灵长动物做试验。”这家政府下属的监测所负责管理广东省实验动物的繁育和使用。
“If we had enough data to build computer models,” he said, “we might be able to simulate functions that we now observe in animals. But we are not there yet, and even when we are, we still have to take virtual studies into the physical world for testing. Do you want to test them on humans or on animals first?”
“现在我们积累的数据还不够多，”他说，“将来我们积累了足够多的数据后，也许可以输入电脑，生成模型。但模拟的结果最终还是要接受实践来检验的。那么检验是直接用人去检验，还是先用动物去检验呢？”
The treatment of experimental animals in China is supervised by the Ministry of Science and Technology. A national regulation revised in 2011 by the State Council, China’s cabinet, requires that animals be supplied with clean food and water, and it forbids “abusive treatment.”
在中国，负责监管实验动物处境的机关是科技部。国务院2011年修订的一项全国性条例要求，必须向动物提供干净的饲料和水。条例还禁止“虐待”实验动物。
Chinese public opinion is divided over testing on live animals, as well as on PETA’s tactics. On Guokr.com, a Chinese chatroom frequented by scientists, some commenters praised PETA’s efforts to promote animal welfare, but more dismissed it as an “extremist animal protection organization” and accused it of putting the well-being of animals before that of humans.
中国公众对活体动物实验以及PETA的策略也存在意见分歧。在科学工作者经常访问的讨论网站果壳网上，一些人称赞了PETA促进动物福利的举动，但更多的人却表示不屑，称它是“极端动物保护组织”，并指责PETA对动物的重视超越了人类。
Mr. Beckham acknowledged that not everyone supported PETA’s campaign to stop animal testing. “Our purpose is not to make enemies,” he said. Still, “if we have to make enemies to achieve goals that result in less animal suffering and less animal exploitation, then we will do that.”
贝克姆承认，并不是所有人都支持PETA阻止动物实验的行动。他说，“我们的目的不是树敌。”然而，“如果要最终达成减轻动物痛苦、减少虐待动物的目标，就必须要树敌的话，那我们就会去树敌。”
Animal testing is still mandatory for any cosmetics or body-care products manufactured or marketed in China. However, the China Food and Drug Administration has said it plans to drop this requirement for domestic brands of shampoo, soap and certain skin products starting in June, apparently heeding calls to end unnecessary cruelty to animals. Foreign brands sold in China will still have to undergo testing on animals.
在中国境内生产或销售的化妆品和身体护理产品目前仍然必须经过动物测试。然而，中国国家食品药品监督管理总局表示，计划从今年6月开始对国产品牌的洗发水、香皂和某些护肤品取消这项要求。这似乎是在回应不要再无端残忍对待动物的呼声。不过，在中国出售的外国品牌仍需经过动物实验。
China Southern’s decision to give up the primate transport business leaves Air France as the last major airline on PETA’s list, and Mr. Beckham offered a blunt warning.
南航决定放弃运送灵长类动物的业务之后，法国航空(Air France)就成了PETA名单上的最后一家大型航空公司。贝克姆对其提出了强硬的警告。
“We are doubling down on Air France,” he said. “We will be unprecedented. If I was Air France right now, I would be very worried.”
“我们会更猛烈地对抗法航，”他说。“我们会使出前所未有的力量。如果我是法航，肯定会十分担心。”