COLLEGE STATION, Tex. — South Sudan faces its most severe crisis yet. Born by referendum in 2011, after a lengthy war with Sudan that killed 2.5 million people, the young country is now in the throes of a political crisis that is devolving into a tribal conflict.
德克萨斯州大学城——南苏丹正面临着它迄今为止最严重的危机。这个通过2011年全民公投而诞生的年轻国家，如今正处在政治危机的煎熬之中，而危机正在沦为部族冲突。在独立之前南北苏丹进行的漫长战争中，有250万人丧生。
After the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement that ended the North-South war, Salva Kiir, the current president of South Sudan, built a country out of a fragile coalition of tribes and regions. I served as the United States envoy to Sudan from 2006 to 2007, and the Salva Kiir I knew then was committed to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. But now his critics say he has concentrated power in his own hands, using repression instead of persuasion to rule.
2005年签署的《全面和平协议》(Comprehensive Peace Agreement)终结了南北苏丹的战争。之后，南苏丹现任总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)在脆弱的部落和地区联盟的基础上，打造了一个国家。2006年至2007年，我担任美国政府的苏丹问题特使，我当时所熟悉的萨尔瓦·基尔追求民主、人权和法治。但如今，批评他的人说，他将大权集于自己一身，正在用压制替代道理，来治理这个国家。
Mr. Kiir comes from South Sudan’s largest tribe, the Dinka, while his former vice president, Riek Machar, comes from the second-largest tribe, the Nuer. These two groups have a history of economic and political rivalry, and of bloody confrontation. In 1991, after a power struggle among the southern rebels, Mr. Machar broke away from John Garang and Mr. Kiir, the leader and his deputy, respectively, of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (S.P.L.A.) and Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (S.P.L.M.), and allied his Nuer militia with the North.
基尔来自南苏丹最大的部落丁卡(Dinka)，而曾经担任副总统的里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)则来自第二大部落努尔(Nuer)。这两个部落历来在经济和政治上相互竞争，也有过流血冲突。1991年，南苏丹反政府武装之间发生权力斗争，马沙尔随后脱离了约翰·加朗(John Garang)和基尔的阵营，将他的努尔族民兵组织与北苏丹结盟。加朗和基尔那时分别是苏丹人民解放军（Sudan People’s Liberation Army，简写SPLA）和苏丹人民解放运动（Sudan People's Liberation Movement，简写SPLM）的领导人和副手。
It was a marriage of convenience: Mr. Machar supported Southern independence, while Mr. Garang and Mr. Kiir supported autonomy for the South within a united Sudan. Khartoum opposed independence, but it armed Mr. Machar to keep South Sudan in chaos. The southern forces fought among themselves for a decade, committing terrible atrocities: In the 1991 Bor massacre Mr. Machar’s Nuer forces murdered thousands of Dinka civilians.
这是一种基于利益关系的联盟：马沙尔支持南部独立，而加朗和基尔则支持在统一苏丹框架下的南部自治。苏丹政府反对独立，但它武装了马沙尔来维持南苏丹的乱局。南部武装力量之间进行了十年的交战，犯下了可怕的暴行：在1991年的博尔屠杀中，马沙尔的努尔族武装杀害了数以千计的丁卡族平民。
The southern forces finally united in 2001, under pressure from the U.S. government. After the peace agreement with Khartoum was signed in January 2005, Mr. Garang became the president of the semi-autonomous, interim government of South Sudan. When he died that July in a helicopter accident, Mr. Kiir quickly succeeded Mr. Garang, and Mr. Machar became his vice president. They worked together to balance sectarian interests within the South, particularly in the distribution of jobs and government contracts. They also worked together to defuse tensions when communal violence threatened stability.
南部各武装力量最终于2001年在美国政府的施压之下联合了起来。2005年1月加朗与苏丹政府签署了和平协议，成为了南苏丹半自治过度政府的总统。当他于当年7月死于一场直升飞机世故后，基尔很快继承了加朗的职位，马沙尔则成为了他的副总统。他们合作协调了南苏丹的宗派利益，特别是在工作岗位和政府合同的分配方面。他们也在族群暴力威胁到稳定的时候，合作缓解了局势的紧张。
The South became fully independent on July 9, 2011. But the public’s expectations of a quick peace dividend were disappointed. In 2012, Mr. Kiir accused some of his ministers and army generals of stealing $4 billion. The government has been using repression to silence its critics. The S.P.L.A. has committed human rights abuses in Jonglei State, in eastern South Sudan, against the Murle, a tribe armed by Khartoum to cause chaos in the region.
2011年7月9日，南苏丹获得完全独立。但期待和平会很快带来利益的民众却失望了。2012年，基尔指控他手下的一些部长和军事将领盗窃40亿美元（约合242亿元人民币）。南苏丹政府一直在打压批评它的人，让他们闭嘴。在南苏丹东部的琼莱省，SPLA犯下了侵犯穆尔勒(Murle)族人权的罪行。穆尔勒族由苏丹政府进行武装，以在南苏丹引起混乱。
In March, Mr. Machar criticized Mr. Kiir’s authoritarian leadership; he also announced that he would challenge Mr. Kiir for the S.P.L.M.’s chairmanship and run for president in 2015. Mr. Kiir fired Mr. Machar as vice president in July, accelerating the collapse of the fragile government’s tribal balance of power.
在三月，马沙尔批评基尔的威权主义领导方式；他还宣布将与基尔竞争SPLM主席一职，并将于2015年竞选总统。7月，基尔解除了马沙尔副总统的职务，加速瓦解了这个脆弱政府在部族权力上的平衡。
Mr. Kiir’s critics in the South argue that he has driven out the reformers in his party and is surrounding himself instead with loyalists from his home area and former acolytes of President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan. Mr. Kiir has made some compromises with Khartoum over sharing oil revenues and the status of the contested border region of Abyei. He might argue this was to stabilize South Sudan’s relationship with Sudan, but others say he has conceded too much.
南苏丹批评基尔的人称，他将改革派人士赶出他的政党，在自己身边安插下来自家乡地区的支持者，和曾经追随苏丹总统奥马尔·巴希尔(Omar al-Bashir)的人。基尔与苏丹政府在共享石油收入和阿卜耶伊争议边界地区的地位问题上达成了一些妥协。他也许可以说，这是为了稳定南苏丹与苏丹的关系，但其他人则说，他做出了太多的退让。
Although the quarrel between Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar has no ethnic basis, their political fight is now mutating into a tribal war. Tensions between the Dinka and the Nuer within the presidential guard blew up on Dec. 15, after Mr. Kiir ordered Nuer soldiers to disarm because he questioned their loyalty. They did, but then Dinka soldiers picked up the weapons and some shooting occurred.
虽然基尔和马沙尔的争斗无关部族，他们之间的政治斗争如今却正在演变成一场部落战争。12月15日，总统卫队中的丁卡族和努尔族士兵爆发了冲突，之前基尔曾质疑努尔族士兵的忠诚，下令他们交出枪械。努尔族士兵的确交出了枪械，但丁卡族士兵拿起了这些武器，发生了交火。
Claiming this was a coup attempt, Mr. Kiir ordered the arrest of 11 senior S.P.L.M. members. Dinka soldiers carried out widespread targeted killings of Nuer civilians in Juba. Mr. Machar’s home in the capital was shelled by government artillery; his staff was killed.
基尔声称他们企图发动政变，下令逮捕11位SPLM高级成员。丁卡族士兵在朱巴进行了大范围的针对努尔族平民的杀戮。政府的炮兵轰炸了马沙尔在首都朱巴的家，他的手下被杀死。
Mr. Machar and his soldiers have since escaped to the Nuer homeland in the Upper Nile and Unity states. The United Nations and the media report that Nuer militias aligned with Mr. Machar have committed widespread retaliatory atrocities against Dinka civilians. Mr. Machar’s troops have also taken control of the oil fields in the Nuer homeland, a formidable tool of leverage since oil accounts for more than 90 percent of Juba’s revenues.
马沙尔和他的士兵自此逃往上尼罗省和犹尼提省努尔族的聚居地。据联合国和媒体的报告，与马沙尔结盟的努尔族民兵组织进行了大规模的报复行动，残酷杀害了许多丁卡族平民。马沙尔的军队也控制了努尔族聚居地区的油田，由于石油占南苏丹政府总收入的90%以上，这一举措带来的影响将十分巨大。
President Bashir of Sudan is said to have proposed to Mr. Kiir sending troops from the North to protect the Southern oil fields. Mr. Kiir refused, wisely, but now Mr. Machar has announced that he intends to negotiate his own oil deal with Khartoum. This will allow Khartoum to play the southern sides against one another.
据说，苏丹总统巴希尔曾向基尔建议，从北部调遣部队保护南部的油田。基尔明智地拒绝了，但如今马沙尔已宣布，他计划自己与苏丹政府进行石油协议的谈判。这将让苏丹政府有机会挑起事端，让南部各力量反目。
The United Nations Security Council decided on Tuesday to send more troops to South Sudan to ensure the protection of civilians. But much more needs to be done.
周二，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)决定向南苏丹派兵，确保平民受到保护。但我们还需要做更多的事情。
Mr. Kiir must release all political prisoners from the S.P.L.M. He also should put in place an interim government until elections can be held. Mr. Machar, for his part, must cease all offensive military operations and withdraw his troops from the oil fields. If he refuses, the United Nations should impose sanctions.
基尔必须释放SPLM的所有政治犯。他也应该组建一个过度政府，在能够进行大选之前维持国家的秩序。马沙尔则应该停止所有攻击性军事行动，从油田撤回他的军队。如果他拒绝，联合国应该进行制裁。
Although Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar say they support reconciliation, they are both trying to make military gains first in order to shore up their negotiating positions. Thus talks must be organized as soon as possible. President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda has offered to act as mediator, but Ugandan media report that he has sent his own special forces to protect Juba from Mr. Machar’s approaching forces. He is not neutral, and another broker should be found — perhaps the Ethiopian government.
虽然基尔和马沙尔都表示支持和解，他们都在力争首先取得军事上的胜利，来巩固自己的谈判立场。因此应该尽快安排谈判。乌干达总统约韦里·穆塞韦尼(Yoweri Museveni)表示愿意担当调解人，但乌干达媒体报道，他已经派出了自己的特种部队，来防止马沙尔日渐逼近的部队攻击朱巴。他的立场绝非中立，所以我们应该找到另一位中间人——或许是埃塞俄比亚政府。
A decade ago, Mr. Bashir argued that the South should not be granted independence because the Southerners could not govern themselves and would lapse into ethnic conflict. They must not prove him right.
十年以前，巴希尔声称，南部不应获得独立，因为苏丹南部的人无法进行自治，将会陷入部族冲突。现在，他们必须证明巴希尔是错的。