UNITED NATIONS — The United States may have midwifed the birth of South Sudan, the world’s youngest nation. But China has quickly become among its most important patrons, building its roads and pumping its oil.
联合国——美国可以说是促成了世界上最年轻的国家南苏丹的诞生。但中国很快就成为了它最重要的资助者之一，在这个国家修建公路，开采石油。
Now, more than a year after South Sudan’s leaders plunged their country into a nasty civil war, the nation has become something of a test of diplomacy between the United States and China, raising the question: Can Washington and Beijing turn their mutual interests in South Sudan into a shared strategy to stop the bloodshed?
南苏丹的敌对领导人却使自己的国家陷入了一场激烈的内战。离战争爆发如今已有一年多的时间，该国变成了对中美外交的某种考验，引发了一个重要问题：华盛顿和北京能将他们在南苏丹的共同利益转变成共同策略，从而阻止流血冲突吗？
To pressure the warring sides toward peace, the United States has circulated a draft Security Council resolution, dangling the threat of sanctions and setting up the possibility of an arms embargo somewhere down the road. The measure could come up for a vote as early as Tuesday.
为了迫使敌对双方走向和平，美国分发了一份安理会决议草案，威胁要进行制裁，并为在未来某个时候施行武器禁运的可能性进行了铺垫。安理会最早可能会于周二对此予以表决。
China, which has long espoused a policy of not interfering in its partners’ domestic affairs, has not revealed its hand. The Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, signaled to diplomats here last week that his government could be persuaded to back appropriate punitive measures against South Sudan. The Chinese ambassador to the United Nations, Liu Jieyi, then publicly questioned the “logic” of proposing sanctions while the two sides are talking. China could abstain from voting on Tuesday and let the measure pass.
中国长期主张不干涉合作伙伴的国内事务，目前尚未表明态度。中国外交部长王毅上周对联合国的外交官们释放出信号：中国政府可以被说服，支持对南苏丹实施适当的惩罚举措。不过，中国常驻联合国代表刘结一后来公开质疑在双方进行谈判的时候提议制裁的“逻辑”。在周二的投票中，中国可能会选择弃权，让其获得通过。
Peace talks — funded by both Beijing and Washington — are underway in Ethiopia this week between factions loyal to President Salva Kiir and his rival, former Vice President Riek Machar. Yet prospects for a breakthrough by a Thursday deadline set by the mediators appear slim. Mr. Kiir, for his part, has refused to show up.
分别忠于总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)及其政敌前副总统里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)的派系本周正在埃塞俄比亚进行和平谈判，相关费用由北京和华盛顿方面提供。调停者将周四设为最后期限，然而在这一日期到来前取得突破的希望似乎非常渺茫。基尔本人一直拒绝露面。
So far, neither Washington nor Beijing has advanced a comprehensive strategy to stop the civil war. Both nations have been hesitant to substantially defang the kingpins of the war, including imposing an arms embargo or limiting how oil revenues might be used to fund the conflict. Both measures are among the recommendations of a recent International Crisis Group report on South Sudan.
迄今为止，华盛顿和北京均没有提出一种全面策略来阻止这场内战。两国都不愿大力削弱战争中关键人物的势力，比如实施武器禁运，或者对用于战争的石油收入加以限制。国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)最近发布的有关南苏丹的报告提出的建议中包含上述两项举措。
“The ability of the United States and China to work toward a common strategy for peace in South Sudan is a test case for their ability to work together on the continent and beyond,” said Casie Copeland, the Crisis Group’s South Sudan expert. She described both countries as “sort of walking in a circle.”
该组织的南苏丹问题专家凯西·科普兰(Casie Copeland)表示，“从美国和中国为南苏丹的和平能够采取怎样的共同策略，可以看出两国在非洲大陆及其他地方开展合作的能力。”她称这两个国家“某种程度上还在原地兜圈子”。
That is not for a lack of interest — or even because of opposing interests.
这并不是因为没有利益牵涉其中，甚至都不是因为两国利益相互冲突。
Although China and the United States have stubbornly been on opposing sides of the issue of Darfur, the long-suffering Sudanese region, the two superpowers share a lot of common ground on South Sudan.
虽然中国和美国在长期受难的苏丹达尔富尔地区的问题上一直持不同意见，但这两个超级大国在南苏丹问题上有很多共同点。
China has strong economic stakes in the country; the United States is heavily invested politically. They both have an interest in restoring stability to the country and avoiding disruptions to its oil flow. Both capitals have also opted to go slowly.
中国在南苏丹有大量的经济利益，美国则在政治上投入巨大。双方均有意促使该国恢复稳定，避免石油输出中断。但这两个国家也都选择慢慢来。
Obama administration officials have deep emotional ties to South Sudan, and so far they have resisted taking any steps, like an arms embargo, that would weaken the government in Juba. As the administration’s former South Sudan envoy, Princeton Lyman, put it this week, “The position is hardening in the administration, but it has taken a while.”
奥巴马政府的官员与南苏丹有着很深的情感联系。到目前为止，他们一直拒绝采取会削弱朱巴政府势力的任何举措，比如武器禁运。就像曾任南苏丹问题特使的普林斯顿·莱曼(Princeton Lyman)本周说的那样，“奥巴马政府的立场越来越坚定，但这花费了一些时间。” 
All the while, fighting between forces loyal to Mr. Kiir, an ethnic Dinka, and Mr. Machar, an ethnic Nuer, has killed tens of thousands, displaced two million people, brought the country to brink of famine and left a trail of rape and killing. The United Nations children’s agency last week said school children had been conscripted by a militia loyal to Mr. Kiir’s forces.
与此同时，忠于丁卡人基尔的部队和努尔人马沙尔的部队之间的战斗，已导致成千上万人死亡、200万人流离失所，使国家陷入饥荒的边缘，奸淫掳掠的暴行频发。联合国儿童基金会上周表示，忠于基尔部队的一个民兵组织一直在征召学童入伍。
The United States and China have vastly different histories there. The United States championed its independence from Sudan, whose president, Omar al-Bashir, it loathed, and whom it referred to the International Criminal Court on charges of genocide in Darfur.
美国和中国在这里的历史作为大相径庭。美国支持它从苏丹独立出去。美国极为厌恶苏丹总统奥马尔·巴希尔(Omar al-Bashir)，还在国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)指控他在达尔富尔犯下种族屠杀的罪行。
China, by contrast, was one of Mr. Bashir’s most important allies — and still is. But when South Sudan split off, it took vast amounts of oil with it, so China soon courted the new government in Juba and kept its stake in the oil fields.
相反，中国是巴希尔最重要的盟友之一——而且目前仍然如此。不过，当南苏丹分离出来时，带走了大量石油，因此中国立即开始拉拢朱巴的新政府，并保住了自己在其油田中的利益。 That helps explains why China has taken an unusually active role, considering its traditional policy of noninterference.
这一定程度上解释了，一向奉行不干涉政策的中国，为何会在南苏丹问题上扮演不同寻常的积极角色。
It has dispatched its own soldiers to the United Nations peacekeeping mission there and persuaded the Security Council to include a most unusual mandate for the mission: Peacekeepers there are tasked with protecting not just civilians, but also the country’s oil installations, which have been attacked. China has also stopped shipping arms to the government in Juba.
中国向那里的联合国维和部队派出了自己的士兵，并说服安理会赋予维和部队一项极为不同寻常的职权：维和人员不仅肩负着保护平民的使命，还要保护该国屡遭袭击的石油设施。中国也已停止向朱巴的政府输送武器。
The American-drafted resolution would impose travel bans and asset freezes on individuals who threaten the peace and security of South Sudan, including those who are accused of committing serious rights abuses, using child soldiers, and attacking United Nations personnel. It would set up a committee to evaluate who should fall on the sanctions list. The measure would raise the possibility of an arms embargo further in the future.
由美国起草的决议将对威胁南苏丹和平与安全的个人颁发旅行禁令，并冻结其资产，其中包括那些被控严重暴行的人，比如招募儿童兵及攻击联合国人员。它将成立一个委员会，来裁定谁应被列入制裁名单。该草案还会提高未来实施武器禁运的可能性。
Crucial to the effectiveness of these measures are South Sudan’s neighbors, including Uganda and Ethiopia, which have ties to the rival parties. Only if the countries in the region agree to punitive measures, like sanctions and an arms embargo, Mr. Lyman pointed out, will China give its consent on the Council.
对这些措施的有效性至关重要的是乌干达和埃塞俄比亚等南苏丹的邻国。这些国家与南苏丹境内的竞争派系有牵连。莱曼指出，只有该地区的各个国家同意采取惩罚性措施，比如制裁和武器禁运，中国才会在安理会上表示赞同。
Asked why it has taken so long to propose a draft resolution on the Security Council, an American official said: “There are a lot of actors in this situation. We’ve been waiting for the right moment.”
当被问到为何起草决议需要这么久时，一名美国官员表示：“这件事有众多参与者。我们一直在等待合适的时机。”
The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic protocol. “Everyone is sort of rowing in the same direction,” he added.
由于外交规定，这位官员要求不具名。他还说，“目前每一方基本上在朝同一个方向使力。”
A wild card is what to do about the potential war crimes committed by both sides in the conflict. The African Union has completed its own investigation into human rights abuses, but refused to make it public while peace talks are continuing. The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has urged the organization to release it.
其中一个未知因素，就是要如何处理双方在冲突中可能犯下的战争罪行。非洲联盟已经完成了自身对南苏丹境内的践踏人权行为的调查，但拒绝在和谈还在进行的时候公开。联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)已经敦促非盟公之于众。