AWEIL, South Sudan — One gauge of the famine looming in South Sudan is that people are simply collapsing from hunger.
南苏丹阿韦勒——南苏丹距离饥荒越来越近，我们看到的是，人们正因饥饿瘫倒在地。
As I was driving into this city, a woman was lying inert on the road. She was Nyanjok Garang, and she said she hadn’t eaten for three days. She had set out to look for work, maybe washing clothes, in hopes of keeping her two children alive. After a day of fruitless walking she had collapsed.
开车进入一座城市的时候，我看到一个女人一动不动躺在路上。她是妮安焦克·格兰(Nyanjok Garang)，已经三天没有进食。她本打算出来找工作，也许是给人洗衣服，好养活她的两个孩子。经过一天徒劳无功的寻找，她倒下了。
“My children are hungry,” she said. “I’m hungry. There’s not even a cent left to buy bread.” Her husband is a soldier in the government forces fighting in South Sudan’s civil war, but she doesn’t even know if he is still alive. So she left her children with a neighbor and set out in hopes of finding work — “and then I blacked out.”
“我的孩子很饿，”她说。“我也饿。家里一分钱也不剩了，没钱买吃的。”她的丈夫是政府军士兵，正在参加南苏丹内战，但此刻连是死是活都不知道。因此，她把孩子留给邻居，出来试着找工作——“然后就晕过去了。”
A horrific famine enveloped what is now South Sudan in 1988, and there are some signs that this year could see a repeat. As in 1988, weather has led to poor harvests on top of civil war that has made it difficult to plant crops and move food around the country.
1988年这里曾被一场可怕的饥荒吞噬，当时南苏丹尚未独立。种种迹象表明，今年可能会是那场惨剧的重演。一如当年，恶劣的天气导致庄稼歉收，同时内战又给粮食的栽种以及食物的运输造成了困难。
President Obama will be focusing on the South Sudan civil war in his trip starting Thursday night to Kenya and Ethiopia, both neighbors to South Sudan. The war is not only a military crisis but also a humanitarian catastrophe, which makes it all the more important to step up efforts to bring about peace.
在周四晚间开始的肯尼亚和埃塞俄比亚之行中，奥巴马总统将把这两个国家的邻国南苏丹的内战作为重点。这场战争不只是军事危机，也是人道灾难，因此就特别有必要付出更大努力，来实现和平。
You might think that what’s needed to end a famine is food. Actually, what’s essential above all is an international push of intensive diplomacy and targeted sanctions to reach a compromise peace deal and end the civil war. Yes, Obama has plenty on his plate already, but no other country has the leverage America does. And in peace, South Sudan can care for itself. But as long as the war continues, South Sudanese will face starvation — especially women and girls.
你也许会以为，结束一场饥荒的应该是食物。实际上，当务之急是通过积极的外交行动和针对性制裁措施来形成国际压力，从而达成各方妥协的和平协议，结束内战。是的，奥巴马要应付的事情已经不少，但没有哪个国家具备美国的影响力。一旦有了和平，南苏丹能照看好自己。然而只要战争这样继续下去，南苏丹人只能继续面对饥饿——尤其是女人和女孩。
The gender dynamics of hunger are obvious: In Aweil, the hospital ward is full of skeletal women and girls, looking like concentration camp survivors. That’s because (as in many places around the world) when food is insufficient, families allocate it to men and boys, and women and girls disproportionately starve.
饥荒中的性别差异十分明显：在阿韦勒，医院病房里全是女人和女孩，她们骨瘦如柴，仿佛集中营的幸存者。这是因为（和全世界许多地方一样）当食物出现匮乏时，各家各户会优先分配给男人和男孩，因此女人和女孩的饥饿状况会格外严重。
One 15-year-old girl in the hospital, Rebecca Athian, was so malnourished that her bones pushed through her skin and she had a measure of anemia (a hemoglobin level of 3) that in the West is pretty much unheard-of. Yet the hospital was now forced to discharge her to make way for new patients.
医院里有位叫丽贝卡·阿西安(Rebecca Athian)的15岁女孩，她的营养不良已经导致皮肤被骨头顶破，贫血的严重程度更是在西方闻所未闻（血红蛋白水平为3）。然而为了腾出地方给新的病患，医院现在被迫要让她出院。
Rebecca has already lost two siblings in the last year, and although the causes of death were never fully determined, it’s a good guess that they were malnutrition-related. Her mother would like to marry Rebecca off, because it would then be her husband’s duty to feed her and keep her alive. But she says Rebecca has been raped, so men are unwilling to marry her.
丽贝卡在去年已经失去了两个兄弟姐妹，他们的死因至今不能完全确定，但跟营养不良相关的可能性是很大的。她的母亲希望把她嫁出去，这样就可以让她的丈夫为食物负责，让她活下去。但是她说丽贝卡被强奸过，男人不愿意娶她。
The United Nations says 4.6 million people in South Sudan — more than one-third of the population — are “severely food insecure,” and the situation will deteriorate in the coming months because the next major harvest won’t come until October or November. Until then, there is nothing to eat.
联合国称，南苏丹有460万人存在“严重的食物短缺”，占总人口的三分之一以上，这种情况在未来几个月里会继续恶化，因为下一轮主要粮食作物的收割要等到10月或11月。在那之前不会有东西可吃。
“It is the first time we’ve seen so many cases like this,” said Dr. Dut Pioth, the acting director of the hospital. “It’s going to be like what we saw in 1988.”
“这是我们第一次见到这么多类似的案例，”医院的代理院长达特·皮奥特医生(Dr. Dut Pioth)说。“这样下去会变成1988年那样。”
Dr. Dut was 11 years old during that famine, and he remembers some relatives starving to death. His family fled to Khartoum, where he thrived in school and attended medical school. But he is frustrated because what patients often need now isn’t so much medical care, but rather food and peace.
在那场饥荒中，达特医生只有11岁，他还记得有一些亲戚被饿死。他们举家逃往喀土穆，他在那里的学校成绩很好，上了医学院。让他深感沮丧的是，病患需要的往往不是医疗，而是食物与和平。
To see starving children is particularly wrenching. They show no emotions: They do not cry or smile or frown, but simply gaze blankly, their bodies unwilling to waste a calorie on emotion when every iota of energy must go to keep major organs functioning.
最为痛心的是看到挨饿的孩子。从他们脸上看不到情绪：不哭，不笑，也没有不满，只有直愣愣的呆滞目光，他们的身体不愿意在感情上浪费哪怕一个卡路里，仅存的能量需要用来维持体内主要器官的运转。
It’s striking that this area of South Sudan is not directly affected by fighting; it’s calm here. But the hunger is still war-related, for the conflict is keeping food and supplies out. The road from the capital, Juba, has been blocked by fighting, and disputes with Sudan have closed the border to the north. So this area is cut off, prices are skyrocketing, jobs are disappearing, and ordinary workers can’t afford to buy food.
令人惊讶的是，这个地区并没有受到战争的直接影响；这里很平静。但是饥饿是跟战争有关的，冲突导致食物和给养无法进入。通往首都朱巴的道路被战斗切断，和苏丹的争执导致北部边境关闭。所以这个区域是被隔绝的，物价在飞涨，就业机会越来越少，普通工人已经买不起食物。
The only certainty is that it will get worse in the coming months, and the women and girls who die will be war casualties. “Those who are dying of gunshots,” Dr. Dut notes, “are fewer than those who are dying of hunger.”
唯一确定的是，未来几个月情况还会变得更糟，死去的女人和女孩将属于战争伤亡人员。“死于饥饿的人，”达特医生说，“会比死于战斗的多。”