NAIROBI, Kenya — It happened during a panic that has unfolded with frightening regularity in recent weeks. Fighters were advancing. Crowds of civilians fled to the river to escape the violence, rushing into barges to cross the White Nile. Amid the frenzy, officials said Tuesday, more than 200 people were killed when the ferry carrying them to safety went down.
肯尼亚内罗毕——事故发生时，人们正处于恐慌之中，最近几周，这种恐慌情绪的爆发频率高得可怕。作战人员正在向前推进。成群的平民逃至河边以便逃避战火，他们冲上驳船，穿越白尼罗河。官员在周二表示，在这股疯狂浪潮中，一艘搭载平民前往安全地带的船只下沉，导致逾200人溺水身亡。
After a month of fighting in South Sudan, nearly half a million people have fled their homes and thousands have been killed. Many have sought safety by crowding onto boats, with witnesses describing passengers’ being crushed or falling overboard and drowning in the rush to escape. But the recent accident, which officials said took place over the weekend, is the worst reported in the conflict.
南苏丹经历了一个月的战争之后，已有近50万人逃离家乡，数千人遇难。很多人涌上船只逃难，目击者描述了急于逃离的乘客相互挤压或是落水溺亡的情景。然而，前述近期事故是冲突爆发以来见诸报道的最严重事故，官员称这场事故发生在上周末。
All of the people killed, possibly as many as 300, were civilians, including women and children abandoning the town of Malakal, said Col. Philip Aguer, a spokesman for the South Sudanese military. “The boat was overloaded,” he said.
南苏丹军方发言人菲利普·阿古尔上校(Philip Aguer)表示，遇难者可能多达300人，全部都是平民，包括逃离马拉卡尔的妇女和儿童。他说，“船超载了。”
The Right Rev. Hilary Garang Deng, the Episcopal bishop of Malakal, said he had received reports of the panic onshore, with people “running for their lives, fearing because the rebels were advancing.” Bishop Deng, who is presently in Juba, the capital, said there was little concrete information on the disaster because phone service in the city was cut.
马拉卡尔的圣公会主教希拉里·加朗·登格(Right Rev. Hilary Garang Deng)表示，他收到了岸上群众陷入恐慌的消息，人们“都在逃命，他们非常害怕，因为叛军在不断推进”。目前身在首都朱巴的登格主教表示，由于朱巴的电话服务已被切断，有关此次灾难的确凿信息寥寥无几。
Rebel forces attacked Malakal, the capital of the oil-rich state of Upper Nile, once again on Tuesday, officials said. The city has already traded hands twice in the conflict, with the rebels capturing it, then retreating in the face of a government assault in late December. According to Doctors Without Borders, on Sunday 94 gunshot victims arrived by boat at a hospital in another city, wounded in the fighting on the front line outside Malakal.
官员称，叛军于周二再次袭击了盛产石油的上尼罗州首府马拉卡尔。马拉卡尔在冲突中已经两次易手，叛军曾占据该城，然后又于12月末在政府攻击之下撤退。据无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)透露，周日共有94名枪击伤员乘船抵达另一个城市的一家医院，这些人是在马拉卡尔郊区前线战斗时受伤的。
“Today there is fighting anew” in and around Malakal, said Toby Lanzer, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator for South Sudan, in a message on Twitter on Tuesday. He said the number of civilians seeking protection at the United Nations base there had “soared from 10,000 to 19,000.” That number has now reached 20,000, according to Ariane Quentier at the United Nations Mission in South Sudan.
联合国驻南苏丹的人道主义协调员托比·兰泽尔(Toby Lanzer)周二通过Twitter表示，马拉卡尔及周边地区“今天又开始了战斗”。他表示，到联合国南苏丹基地寻求保护的平民人数已经“从1万人飙升至1.9万人”。据联合国驻南苏丹特派团(United Nations Mission)的阿里亚尼·康捷(Ariane Quentier)透露，人数现在已经达到了2万人。
The conflict in South Sudan stems from a political dispute between President Salva Kiir and his former vice president, Riek Machar. Mr. Kiir dismissed Mr. Machar along with the rest of his cabinet in July. Then fighting broke out on Dec. 15, after the president accused Mr. Machar of an attempted coup.
南苏丹的冲突源于总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)与前副总统里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)的政治争端。基尔在7月份迫使马沙尔和其他内阁成员下台。在总统指责马沙尔试图发动政变后，战争于12月15日爆发。
United Nations officials have said the death toll in the conflict has risen significantly since their estimate in late December that more than 1,000 people had been killed. The International Crisis Group said last week that the number of fatalities was approaching 10,000.
联合国官员表示，他们在12月末估算的冲突死亡人数为逾1000人，自此之后，死亡人数已经大幅增加。国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)上周表示，死亡人数正在接近1万人。
The conflict looks increasingly like the all-out civil war that diplomats say they have been trying to prevent.
这场冲突看起来越来越像是一场全面内战，外交人员表示，他们一直在设法阻止此类战争。
“If this isn’t civil war what is a civil war?” said Alex de Waal, the executive director of the World Peace Foundation at the Fletcher School at Tufts University. He said there were organized forces on both sides with clear command and control, both administering territory and both with political leadership.
“这都不是内战的话，什么才是内战？”塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)弗莱彻法律及外交学院(Fletcher School)世界和平基金会(World Peace Foundation)执行董事亚历克斯·德瓦尔(Alex de Waal)说。他说，双方都拥有处于明确指挥和控制之下的有组织武装部队，双方都有领土和政治领导层。
“It fits the definition in every textbook,” Mr. de Waal said.
德瓦尔说，“这种情况符合每本教科书上的定义。”
The humanitarian crisis continues to grow. According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, about 413,000 people are internally displaced and 66,500 are seeking refuge at United Nations bases around the country. More than 74,300 have already fled the country, with an additional 4,000 to 5,000 arriving daily in neighboring Uganda alone.
当地的人道主义危机越来越严重。根据联合国人道主义事务协调办公室(United Nations Office for theCoordination of Humanitarian Affairs)提供的数据，境内大约有41.3万人流离失所，还有6.665万人在全国各地的联合国基地寻求庇护。已有超过7.43万人逃离该国，仅仅在邻近的乌干达，每天就有4000至5000人抵达。
“We all assume that the humanitarian situation will get worse,” said Jose Barahona, country director in South Sudan for Oxfam. Access for humanitarian aid groups has been difficult in the volatile situation. In places like Malakal, he said, it can be safe one day and dangerous the next, as offensives and counteroffensives take shape.
“我们都认为，这里的人道主义状况会越来越糟，”乐施会(Oxfam)的南苏丹国别主任若泽·巴拉奥纳(Jose Barahona)说。在这种不稳定的情况下，人道主义救援组织很难进入。他说，在马拉卡尔等地，随着攻击与反攻的进行，形势可能会在一天之内从安全变成危险。
“Due to the uncertainty of military operations, we have been deploying and evacuating people the whole time,” Mr. Barahona said. “There are very few places in the country where we can actually go.”
由于军事行动的不确定性，我们一直在部署救援人员，疏散居民，”巴拉奥纳说，“这里没有几个我们真正能去的地方。”
The Satellite Sentinel Project, a nonprofit group, released satellite photographs showing homes destroyed in the town of Mayom, in Unity State, a region where there are large oil reserves. The satellite pictures also showed damage to oil storage tanks and manifolds in the state. In Jonglei State, the market in the capital of Bor suffered significant damage, as did homes in nearby villages, many of which were burned to the ground.
非营利组织卫星哨兵项目(Satellite Sentinel Project)发布的卫星图片显示，在联合州(Unity State)的芒雍县(Mayom)，人们的住宅遭到了摧毁。这个地区拥有丰富的石油。卫星图片还显示，该州的储油罐和输油管道受到了损害。琼莱州(Jonglei State)首府博尔市(Bor)的市场受损严重，附近村庄的房屋也是一样，其中许多都已被烧成灰烬。
At least three aid workers have been killed so far. Dozens of humanitarian aid compounds have been looted of supplies and dozens of vehicles have been stolen.
截至目前，至少有三名救援工作者遇难。数十个人道主义救援营地的物资遭到抢劫，还有数十辆车被盗。
In a statement on Sunday, the United Nations said interviews and investigations had revealed “horrific allegations of atrocities by anti-government forces against civilians and surrendering soldiers, including summary executions, torture, sexual violence and ethnically targeted killing.”
联合国在周日的声明中称，采访和调查表明，“反政府力量涉嫌对平民和已投降士兵实施了可怕的暴行，包括集体处决、折磨、性暴力和针对特定种族的屠杀。”
The United Nations Mission said it “deplores these horrendous acts of violence and utter disregard for human life and dignity.”
联合国特派团说，我们“对这些骇人暴行及对人类生命和尊严的完全漠视深感遗憾”。
Diplomats from across the region and around the world have urged, threatened and begged the two sides to negotiate a cease-fire, to no avail. Over the weekend, the United States special envoy, Donald E. Booth, met with Mr. Machar at an undisclosed location. But there has been no breakthrough to end the fighting.
该地区和世界各地外交官都敦促、威胁，甚至乞求双方协商停火，但没有任何作用。周末，美国特使唐纳德·E·布斯(Donald E. Booth)与马沙尔在一个未对外界公布的地点见了面，但并未在结束战斗方面取得突破。
“They’re under enormous pressure for a cessation of hostilities and a release of the detainees,” Mr. de Waal said. “It’s always better to have people at the table because having them at the table means when the thinking does shift they’re there to make a deal.”
“他们面临着停止敌对局面和释放在押人员的巨大压力，”德瓦尔说。“让人们坐上谈判桌，始终是件好事，因为他们坐上谈判桌的事实表明，如果他们确实转变了想法，就可以在谈判桌上达成协议。”