JOHANNESBERG — Sitting in her comfortable suburban living room 45 minutes east of Johannesburg, Nokuthula Magubane, 18, was doing something close to unthinkable to older generations of black South Africans: She was affectionately praising Afrikaans.
约翰内斯堡——诺库图拉·玛古贝恩(Nokuthula Magubane)的家位于约翰内斯堡东部的郊区，离城里有45分钟车程。今年18岁的她坐在家中舒适的起居室里，做了一件较年长的南非黑人几乎无法想象的事情：她在充满热情地称赞阿非利卡语(Afrikaans)。
“Afrikaans is such a laid-back and beautiful language,” she said. “You can just sit back, relax, speak your Afrikaans and be happy.”
“阿非利卡语是一门松弛而美丽的语言，”她说，“就往椅背上一靠，放松，讲讲阿非利卡语，开开心心的。”
Mandatory instruction in Afrikaans during apartheid was one of the sparks that set off the Soweto student uprisings of 1976. Hundreds of young people, many younger than Ms. Magubane, were killed. Countless others chose to abandon education rather than receive instruction in what they considered the language of the oppressor. It was a seminal moment in the struggle against apartheid, and the day of the uprising, June 16, became national Youth Day in the new South Africa.
种族隔离时代，强制教授阿非利卡语是激发起1976年索韦托(Soweto)学生运动的导火索之一。成百上千名年轻人遭到杀害，其中许多人比玛古贝恩还年轻。还有无数人宁肯放弃学业也不愿意以他们心目中的压迫者的语言接受教育。这是反种族隔离斗争中开创性的时刻，起义发生那天，6月16日，成了新南非的青年节。
But to Ms. Magubane, “At the end of the day, Afrikaans is just a language.”
但在玛古贝恩看来，“说到底，阿非利卡语也只是一门语言。”
Such feelings are common among members of Ms. Magubane’s generation, known as the born frees because they were born after the end of apartheid, or just before it ended, and are too young to have many memories of it. And while they certainly know Nelson Mandela, who died on Thursday, it is almost impossible for them to grasp what it was like to see him emerge from prison in 1990 and become president in the nation’s first fully democratic elections four years later.
在玛古贝恩这一代人中，这种感觉十分常见。这代人生于种族隔离结束之后，或即将结束之际，他们被称为“生来自由”的一代，由于太年轻，所以对种族隔离没有太多记忆。尽管肯定认识周四逝世的纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)，但他们几乎不可能领会到1990年目睹曼德拉走出监狱时，以及他在四年后成为南非首位经过全民民主选举当选总统时的感受。
The born frees make up a huge segment of the population — about 40 percent, according to census figures — and their many critics among older South Africans contend that they are apathetic and apolitical, unaware of the history of the struggle that made their lives better.
生来自由的一代人在总人口中占有极大的比例，人口普查数据显示约达40%。很多较为年长的南非人对年轻一代持批评态度，称他们冷漠、不关心政治，不了解让他们的生活变得更好的斗争史。
But the born frees have another name as well — the Mandela generation — and they insist that their determination to look to the future and not the past is the greatest tribute they can pay him.
但生来自由的一代也有另外一个名字：“曼德拉世代”。他们坚持认为，决心展望未来而不是回首过去，才是献给曼德拉的最深切的礼赞。
“Yes, we were oppressed by white people; yes, it happened; yes, it hurt,” Ms. Magubane said while Mr. Mandela was still clinging to life. “But let us forgive each other so that we can move on fully and contribute fully to the South Africa we want to see in the future.”
“是的，我们受到了白人的压迫；是的，的确发生过；而且的确很痛苦，”玛古贝恩说，“但我们要互相宽恕，这样才能完全地走出过去，才能全身心地为一个我们理想中的南非做出贡献。”她接受采访时曼德拉尚在人世。
Akhumzi Jezile, a 24-year-old producer, television personality and speaker, says the born frees are portrayed as apathetic because they do not respond with the same emotion, or in the same numbers, as the Soweto generation does during Youth Day marches and similar remembrances.
今年24岁的阿库姆齐·杰济勒(Akhumzi Jezile)是一名制片人、电视名人和演说家。他说生来自由的一代之所以被人形容“冷漠”，是因为他们不会在青年节游行或类似的纪念庆典上有索韦托那代人那样的反应，无论是情绪上还是人数上。
“It’s not a matter of not understanding apartheid; it’s just a matter of us having different challenges,” he said. “I think the feeling that the born frees are ignorant comes from an older generation that sees a youth that doesn’t react the way they do. But that is normal. We didn’t live it, but we have a vibrancy. We are fighting our issues.”
“并不是不理解种族隔离的问题，只是我们有了不同的挑战，”他说，“我想，生来自由的一代很无知的感觉，来自更为年长的一代，他们看到年轻人不像他们那样做出反应。但那是正常的，我们没有亲身经历过那些，但是我们很活跃，我们在为我们的问题抗争。”
He pointed to education campaigns led by young people to fight the scourges of substance abuse, crime and H.I.V. infection.
他举出的例子有年轻人引领的针对药品滥用、犯罪和艾滋病的教育行动。
“The generation of 1976 or the generation before us had different challenges,” he said. “We cannot talk about apartheid every day forever.”
“1976年那一代人，或者我们的上一代人，有不同的挑战，”他说，“我们不能天天谈种族隔离，一直这么下去。”
Many, though certainly not all, of the born frees’ attitudes differ markedly from those of older South Africans because their experiences are so sharply different. Young people, for instance, are more likely to socialize with people of another race, according to the Reconciliation Barometer, a yearly gauge of public opinion.
生来自由的一代人，尽管并非全部，但有很多观点与上一代南非人存在明显差异，因为他们的经历是如此的不同。例如，年度公共意见研究《和解晴雨表》(Reconciliation Barometer)显示，年轻人更乐意与其他种族的人交际。
“It seems young people may be developing deeper relationships across historic dividing lines, beyond just interaction,” the 2012 Reconciliation Barometer reported.
2012年的《和解晴雨表》报告中说，“年轻人似乎可以能跨过历史的分界线，超越简单的互动培养更深的关系。”
They are also less likely to have faith in political leaders, and less likely to blame apartheid for South Africa’s current economic and social inequality, according to the Reconciliation Barometer.
《和解晴雨表》显示，他们对政治领袖产生信心的可能性更低，将南非现在的经济和社会不平等归咎于种族隔离制度的可能性也更低。
And despite the warning from Zwelinzima Vavi, the general secretary of South Africa’s powerful confederation of trade unions, that South Africa’s young are a “ticking time bomb” because of the unemployment and poverty rates they face — twice as high as in the general population — born frees are overwhelmingly optimistic, the Barometer and other surveys have found.
尽管南非影响力巨大的工会大会总书记兹维林兹马·瓦维(Zwelinzima Vavi)警告说，南非年轻人是一颗“嘀嗒作响的定时炸弹”，他们面临的失业率和贫困率是总人口的两倍。但是《和解晴雨表》和其他民调都显示，生来自由的一代人绝大多数都很乐观。
Indeed, their generation in other countries — often known as millennials elsewhere — also tends toward optimism.
的确，在其他国家，这代人的心态也倾向于乐观——这代人在其他国家常常被称为“新千年一代”。
Even young people from impoverished townships display a heady enthusiasm, though for many life has changed little in material terms since the end of apartheid, and unemployment is worse.
尽管来自贫穷村镇的年轻人们显示出了令人鼓舞的热情，但对许多人来说，自从种族隔离终结以来物质层面上生活并没有改变多少，失业问题甚至还加重了。
“Now there are no boundaries,” said Miles Mabaane, 18, a resident of Vosloorus, southeast of Johannesburg. “We young people have the potential to come up with new strategies of how to save the country, how to do things better, how to accommodate everybody in this country.”
今年18岁的迈尔斯·玛巴恩(Miles Mabaane)居住在约翰内斯堡东南的沃斯鲁若斯(Vosloorus)。“现在没有了界限，”他说。“我们年轻人有潜力构想出挽救国家的新战略，构想出改进的方法，如何在一个国家里包容所有人。”
While older South Africans complain about born frees not acknowledging the past, some born frees complain about their parents’ trying to hold them “captive” to it.
较为年长的南非人不满于生来自由的年轻人对历史无动于衷的态度，而有些年轻人也在抱怨父母想要让他们成为南非历史的“奴隶”。
“We are constantly reminded of what happened directly by those who were involved in the struggle — as a means of keeping us loyal, they brainwash us by continuously reinstilling fear about what the ‘white man’ has done, about how much pain was caused, how much suffering their generation suffered,” wrote AkoLee, a blogger who says she was 6 in 1994, when Mr. Mandela became president. “They say we are ungrateful for not thinking the same way they do, for questioning what the ‘black man’ is doing.”
博客作者AkoLee写道，“那些曾经参与斗争的人们不断提醒我们过去发生过什么——借此让我们保持忠诚，他们给我们洗脑，不停地灌输恐惧，告诉我们‘白人’做了什么，造成了多大痛苦，他们这一代人承受了多少苦难。”AkoLee说，1994年曼德拉担任总统时，她才六岁。“他们说，我们的想法和他们不一样，质疑‘黑人’做的事，这就是忘本。”
One popular hip-hop artist in South Africa who goes by the name HHP — pronounced “double H P” — seemed to sum up the experiential disconnect between the generations in a song called “Harambe,” which also shows a clear appreciation for the sacrifices of the previous generations.
南非著名说唱歌手HHP似乎在一首歌中总结了几代人在经验上的代沟，这首歌叫做《团结起来》(Harambe)，歌中明显表达了对前几代人所做牺牲的感谢。
“I’m not the political type,” the song says. “Not the type to fake an image for the sake of this whole consciousness type. Never been called a Kaffir before. Can’t imagine seeing 10 cops and dogs charging through my front door. Can’t say what tear gas smelled like. Can’t even imagine what a rubber bullet on your back felt like.
歌中唱道，“我不关心政治。我不会为了别人的看法伪装自己。我从来没被人叫过‘黑鬼’。我想象不出，十个警察和一群警犬从我家前门冲进来的样子。我不知道催泪瓦斯什么气味。橡皮子弹打中后背的感觉，我想都没有想过。”
“But it’s because of you that I don’t speak Afrikaans today. I have chance today.” The song continues, “Because of you the black youth of today is emancipated.”
“但是因为你们，我今天不说阿非利卡语了。今天我有了选择的机会。”歌中接着唱道，“因为你们，黑皮肤的年轻人如今得到了解放。”
Most black South Africans 20 years ago would not have recognized the life that Ms. Magubane leads. A third of her friends are white. She has known many of them since she started school. She calls her white choir leader “Tanni Christine,” or “Auntie Christine” in Afrikaans.
若是在20年前，大多数南非黑人想象不到玛古贝恩现在的生活。她的朋友中有三分之一是白人，其中许多一开始上学就认识了。她管合唱团的白人团长叫做“克里斯蒂娜塔尼”(Tanni Christine)，在阿非利卡语里意为“克里斯蒂娜阿姨”。
As for Mr. Mandela, she said: “We have seen his example, and now we’re going to follow it. We’re going to take it one step further into the future, and we’re going to build the South Africa that he would have loved to see.”
至于曼德拉，她说，“我们看到了他树立的榜样，现在我们将跟随他的足迹。未来我们会更进一步，把南非建成他期望的样子。”