JOHANNESBURG — South Africa’s top appeals court ruled on Thursday that Oscar Pistorius, the Olympic star known as the Blade Runner, was guilty of murder in the 2013 killing of his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, overturning a lower court’s conviction on the lesser charge of manslaughter.
约翰内斯堡——周四，南非最高上诉法院裁定，被称作“刀锋战士”(Blade Runner)的奥运明星奥斯卡·皮斯托瑞斯(Oscar Pistorius)在2013年杀害女友里瓦·斯廷坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)一事上的谋杀罪名成立，推翻了下级法院较轻的误杀定罪。
Mr. Pistorius has already served about a year in prison and is now under house arrest for the previous conviction; a murder conviction carries a minimum sentence of 15 years in prison.
皮斯托瑞斯已在狱中服了大约一年的刑。因为之前的定罪，他目前被软禁在家。谋杀罪名将让他至少要在狱中服刑15年。
The appeals court sided with state prosecutors on central points, saying that the manslaughter conviction, technically called culpable homicide, had been based on a misinterpretation of laws and an erroneous dismissal of circumstantial evidence.
上诉法院在核心问题上与国家公诉人意见一致，称此前的误杀定罪——严格来说叫过失杀人——是基于对法律的误读做出的，且错误地没有考虑旁证。
The court said that Mr. Pistorius, who has said repeatedly that he accidentally killed his girlfriend when he believed his home had been broken into, should have foreseen that his actions would cause the death of a person.
法院称，皮斯托瑞斯应该预见到自己的行为会导致他人死亡。皮斯托瑞斯多次声称自己是不小心杀死女友的，因为他以为有人闯进了自己家中。
Mr. Pistorius, 29, who has been under house arrest since October, is expected to remain at home pending a new sentence.
从10月开始，29岁的皮斯托瑞斯一直被软禁在家中。等候新判决期间，他预计仍会留在家里。
He was not present when five judges of the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein delivered their verdict. Ms. Steenkamp’s relatives, who were in court, embraced upon hearing the ruling.
布隆方丹最高上诉法院的五名法官宣读裁决结果时，皮斯托瑞斯不在场。法庭上，斯廷坎普的亲人听到判决后相互拥抱。
“As a result of the error of laws referred to and on a proper appraisal of the facts, he ought to have been convicted not of culpable homicide on that count but of murder,” Judge Eric Leach said.
“因为之前引用了错误的法律，在对事实进行了准确的评估后，他本应被定为谋杀罪，而不是之前认定的过失杀人罪，”法官埃里克·利奇(Eric Leach)说。
The appeals court ordered the lower court to hand a new sentence to Mr. Pistorius, who became the first double amputee to compete in the Olympic Games, in London in 2012.
上诉法院下令下级法院重新对皮斯托瑞斯量刑。在2012年的伦敦奥运会上，皮斯托瑞斯成为首名双腿截肢的奥运选手。
The court’s ruling revives a long-running legal battle that transfixed South Africa last year with its touchstone themes of celebrity, violence against women, crime and home intrusions. In a unanimous ruling, the appeals court described the case as “a human tragedy of Shakespearean proportions.”
法院的裁决让这场旷日持久的官司重新回归大众视野。去年，因为名人、针对女性的暴力、犯罪和入室侵扰这样的标准主题，这场官司震惊南非。上诉法院做出了一致裁决，称该案是“莎士比亚级别的人间悲剧”。
Mr. Pistorius’s family said it had “taken note” of the ruling by the appeals court, the second-highest court in the country, but had not decided on its next steps.
皮斯托瑞斯的家人称已“注意到”上诉法院的裁决，但尚未决定下一步怎么办。最高上诉法院是南非层级位列第二的最高法院。
“The legal team will study the finding, and we will be guided by them in terms of options going forward,” the family said in a statement.
“法律团队会研究裁决，我们将在接下来的选择上接受他们的指导，”皮斯托瑞斯的家人在一则声明中说。
Legal experts said Mr. Pistorius could try to take his case to the Constitutional Court, but it was unclear whether that court would regard it as a matter under its jurisdiction.
法律专家称，皮斯托瑞斯可以尝试将案件提交至宪法法院(Constitutional Court)，但尚不清楚该法案是否认为该案在其管辖权下。