BLOEMFONTEIN, South Africa — When Freddy Kenny started his business selling vegetables out of a battered pickup truck in the 1970s, a siren used to sound over this city, his hometown, every night at 9, signaling to him and every other black person that they must leave the city limits immediately or face arrest.
南非布隆方丹——上世纪70年代，当弗雷迪·肯尼(Freddy Kenny)开始开着破旧的皮卡卖菜的时候，每到晚上9点警报就会响彻他的家乡布隆方丹，提醒他和每一名黑人，他们必须立即离开市区，不然就会被逮捕。
These days, the only thing looming is a 20-foot statue of Nelson Mandela, the man who led South Africa out of apartheid and into an era of democracy, his fist raised in a black power salute. Mr. Kenny, now a supermarket magnate, donated the bronze likeness of Mr. Mandela, South Africa’s first black president, and had it erected atop the city’s highest point, Naval Hill.
如今，唯一隐约可见的就是一座20英尺（约合6米）高的纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)塑像，他举起象征黑人力量的拳头致意。曼德拉带领南非摆脱种族隔离制度，进入民主时代。肯尼现在已经成为一名超市大亨，捐资在这座城市的最高点纳瓦尔山，树立了南非首位黑人总统曼德拉的铜像。
“Madiba always watched over us when he lived,” he said Saturday, referring to Mr. Mandela by his clan name. “Now he will watch over us for eternity.”
“马迪巴(Madiba)在世的时候，总是守护着我们，”肯尼在周六说，“如今，他会永远守护我们。”马迪巴是曼德拉的族名。
Mr. Kenny’s new life, with the perks of privilege of his white counterparts, is a testament to the commitment Mr. Mandela, who died Thursday and whose funeral is next Sunday, placed on making racial reconciliation the centerpiece of his presidency.
肯尼现在享有与白人相同的权利，他的新生活印证了曼德拉的承诺，让种族和解成为他但任总统的核心政治遗产。曼德拉于上周四（本文最初发表于12月8日——编注）逝世，葬礼将于本周日举行。
He led a party that had fought an armed insurgency against the apartheid government, yet when he emerged from prison he preached forgiveness and harmony. Stripped of bitterness, Mr. Mandela negotiated a peaceful end to white rule, giving birth to the rainbow nation.
曼德拉领导的政党曾发动武装起义反对种族隔离政府。然而，当他出狱的时候，他却宣扬宽恕与和解。抛下怨恨的曼德拉通过谈判，和平地终结了白人统治，造就了彩虹之国。
But racial equality at the ballot box has proved much easier to achieve than social and economic equality. While Mr. Kenny, a regular at the bar of the Schoeman Park Golf Club, a formerly all-white watering hole for the city’s elite, has caught up with and surpassed many white South Africans, he is an exception to a rule of lopsided opportunity and advancement that remains one of the most daunting challenges facing the nation today.
但现实表明，在选举方面实现种族平等要比实现社会及经济平等容易得多。肯尼经常光顾斯库曼公园高尔夫俱乐部(Schoeman Park Golf Club)的酒吧，之前这是一个只供城市精英消费的白人酒吧。肯尼已经赶上且超过很多南非白人，他是机会、发展不平等的常规中的特例，这种不平等依然是南非现在面临的最严峻挑战之一。
Since the end of apartheid, the government has built well over two million homes, brought electricity to millions of households and vastly increased the number of poor people with access to potable water. The average annual incomes of black-led households almost tripled from 2001 to 2011, according to census figures released late last year, and a growing percentage of the adult black population has gone to high school, with an increasing sliver going to college.
种族隔离结束以来，政府已经建造了200多万套住宅，让数百万个家庭用上了电，此外还让远远更多的贫困人口获得了饮用水。根据去年公布的人口普查数据，从2001年至2011年，黑人家庭的平均年收入增加了两倍。越来越多的成年黑人就读中学，尽管读大学的黑人很少，但人数也在增加。
But black South Africans are still very far behind whites, and by some measures falling further back. In 2001, white-led households typically earned close to $17,000 more than their black counterparts, at current exchange rates. By 2011, that disparity had grown to nearly $30,000. And while the nation has made headway in reducing the number of black people with no education or only a few years of primary school, very few whites have that barrier to overcome; to the contrary, they have advanced to college and beyond at higher rates since apartheid ended.
但南非的黑人仍然远远落后于白人，而且按某些标准来看，甚至出现更大退步。按照当前汇率计算，2001年，白人家庭的收入比黑人家庭高出将近1.7万美元（约合10.3万元人民币）。到2011年，收入差距扩大至将近3万美元。虽然南非大幅减少了没有受过教育，或只接受过几年小学教育的黑人，但很少有白人需要克服这种障碍，自种族隔离制度结束以来，白人进入大学并取得更高学历的比例也提高了。
The nation remains deeply divided in social spheres as well. According to the SA Reconciliation Barometer, a survey of racial and social attitudes, less than 40 percent of South Africans socialize with people of another race. Just 22 percent of white South Africans and a fifth of black South Africans live in racially integrated neighborhoods. Schools remain heavily segregated, too: Only 11 percent of white children go to integrated schools, and just 15 percent of black children do.
在社会生活方面，南非依然处于深度割裂的状态。根据南非《和解晴雨表》(SA Reconciliation Barometer)——这是一项有关种族及社会态度的调查——数据，只有不到40%的南非人会与其他种族的人交往。只有22%的白人和五分之一的黑人居住在不同种族混居的社区。学校也依然存在严重的隔离现象：只有11%的白人儿童和15%的黑人儿童在不同种族混合授课的学校就读。
During his presidency, Mr. Mandela helped keep decades of oppression and imbalances from boiling over. He encouraged blacks to be patient about acquiring the material goods and services that even lower-class whites took for granted. He asked whites to have faith in multiracial democracy and not flee the country.
曼德拉在担任总统期间，成功防止了数十年的压迫和失衡加剧到失控的地步。他呼吁黑人，要对获得那些底层白人都习以为常的商品和服务抱有耐心。他告诉白人要对多种族的民主抱有信心，不要离开南非。
But through the long years of his declining health, many asked what would become of South Africa’s relative racial comity once he was gone.
但是这许多年来，随着他的健康状况不断恶化，许多人都开始疑问，曼德拉离世之后，南非不同种族间相对的和睦会变成什么样子。
In few places is the legacy of racial separation in South Africa more bitter than in the city of Bloemfontein. In the second half of the 19th century, it was the capital of the Orange Free State, an independent Afrikaner republic that was in some ways a prototype of what would become apartheid. It was the city where a group of Afrikaner elites gathered at the all-white Ramblers Hall in 1914 to form the National Party, which would win power in 1948 and entrench racial separation and white supremacy as official government policy.
在南非，很少有哪个地方受种族隔离的影响比布隆方丹更严重。19世纪后半叶，布隆方丹是独立的南非白人共和国奥兰治自由邦(Orange Free State)的首都，在某种程度上这里也是后来种族隔离制度的雏形。1914年，这座城市里的一群白人精英在仅限白人入内的兰布勒斯大厅(Ramblers Hall)里集会，组建南非国民党(National Party)，又于1948年当权，然后把种族隔离和白人至上的原则作为政府的官方政策。
But it is also a city with a rich history of black activism. It was in a church school here that a group of black community leaders met in 1912 to form the precursor to the African National Congress.
然而，这座城市黑人运动的历史也非常丰富。1912年，一群黑人社区的领袖在这里的一所教会学校集会，然后成立了非洲人国民大会党(African National Congress)的前身。
In a speech delivered on a visit to the city in 1997 while he was president, Mr. Mandela hailed Bloemfontein as a symbol of the country’s extraordinary transformation.
1997年，时任南非总统的曼德拉在访问这座城市时发表了一次演讲，他在演讲中赞扬布隆方丹是南非巨大转变的象征。
“Here the forces and the peoples who make us what we are today interacted and clashed,” he said.
他说，“那些让我们成为今天的自己的各种力量和人物，在这里相互作用、相互碰撞。”
He continued: “Bloemfontein has come full circle. Once an outpost of an invading colonial force and then the capital of a republic that excluded the majority, today it is the seat of a democratically elected nonracial provincial government.”
他还说：“布隆方丹经历了很多改变。它曾经是殖民侵略势力的前哨，之后成了将大多数人排除在外的一个共和国的首都，如今它又变成一个通过民主选举产生的跨种族省级政府的所在地。”
Yet deep fissures remain, and long-held prejudices are not easily papered over. A crude video made by residents of an all-white dorm at the University of the Free State in Bloemfontein in 2008 showed the students berating and humiliating black domestic workers in their dorm, forcing them to eat stew into which one student appeared to have urinated. The students in the video, which was apparently made to protest the planned integration of the residence hall, were expelled and faced criminal charges.
然而，深刻的裂痕仍然存在，而且长期的偏见也不那么容易消除。2008年，布隆方丹自由州大学(University of the Free State)一栋白人宿舍里的学生，摄制了一段粗糙的视频，视频显示这些学生正在宿舍里斥责和羞辱黑人佣人，并强迫他们吃下似乎被一名学生撒过尿的炖菜。视频里的学生们后来被开除了，而且还受到了刑事指控。这段视频似乎是为了抗议计划实施的学生宿舍不同种族混居而拍摄的。
Men like Mr. Kenny, with their wealth and status, live easily in a multiracial world. But for most black South Africans, race remains a formidable obstacle. Like many young, poor blacks, Mamello Tlakeli, 27, said she had no meaningful contact with white people.
像肯尼这样的人，因为拥有财富和地位，可以在这个多种族的世界里轻松地生活。但是对于大多数南非黑人而言，种族仍然是一个可怕的障碍。与许多贫穷的年轻黑人一样，27岁的马梅洛·特拉克利(Mamello Tlakeli)说，她与白人没有任何有意义的接触。
In her last job, as a waitress at a chain seafood restaurant, she said racial prejudice from whites was a constant irritant. Afrikaans-speaking customers would sometimes demand that she speak Afrikaans, even when they could clearly speak English, she said. Most young black South Africans do not speak the language, though many of their parents were forced to learn it in school, a policy that became a rallying point in the anti-apartheid movement.
她的上一份工作是在一家连锁海鲜餐馆当服务员，她说白人的种族偏见仍时常会让她感到愤怒。她说，讲阿非利卡语(Afrikaans)的顾客有时会要求她讲阿非利卡语，尽管他们显然会讲英语。大多数年轻的南非黑人都不会讲阿非利卡语，虽然他们的父母上学时曾被迫学习过这门语言，当时的这项政策在反种族隔离运动中曾是一项极受民众关注的议题。
“Even ice they would order in Afrikaans,” she said.
她说，“他们连点冰激凌都要用阿非利卡语。”
During staff meals, white and black employees would sit separately, not by force but by habit.
员工吃饭时间，白人和黑人员工会分开来坐，这并不是强制性的，而是出于习惯。
“It was always very uncomfortable with white colleagues,” she said.
她说，“和白人同事在一起总是让人很不舒服。”
Recently unemployed and working as a volunteer at a charity in the hope of getting some professional experience, Ms. Tlakeli said white people in South Africa continued to prosper as they did before apartheid, but blacks remained in the rear.
最近失业的特拉克利目前在一家慈善机构当志愿者，她希望获得一些专业经验。她说，南非的白人还是和种族隔离时代一样蒸蒸日上，可是黑人却仍然落在后面。
“There is a huge gap between black and white,” she said. “The rainbow nation is a dream, not a reality.”
“黑人和白人之间有一条巨大的鸿沟，”她说，“彩虹之国只是个梦想，并不是现实。”