PRETORIA, South Africa — It was a corruption trial that had transfixed South Africa, and the prosecutor was in no mood for mercy. The defendant was the nation’s top police official, a figure of such international stature that he had once led Interpol. But when he took the stand, his testimony — his wife, he said, had accidentally shredded evidence — was rejected outright by his inquisitor.
南非比勒陀利亚——那是一桩令南非举国瞩目的腐败案庭审，检察官压根没打算手下留情。被告是南非警察最高领导人，一个蜚声国际的人物，甚至曾担任过国际刑警组织(Interpol)的负责人。但当他站在证人席上时，他的证词——他说，他的老婆意外撕毁了证据——遭到了审讯人毫不留情的反驳。
“You know what this means?” the prosecutor said. “That you are arrogant and that you lie.”
“你知道这意味着什么吗？”这名检察官说，“你狂妄自大，你在撒谎。”
When the trial ended in 2010, the police commissioner, Jackie Selebi, was sentenced to 15 years, and the prosecutor, Gerrie Nel, had cemented a reputation for abrasive, in-your-face cross-examination that earned him a new nickname: the pit bull.
2010年，当这场庭审结束时，这名警察局长——杰基·塞莱比(Jackie Selebi)，被判15年监禁，而检察官格里·内尔(Gerrie Nel)生硬粗暴、咄咄逼人的盘问风格则更加闻名，他还因此得到了一个新的绰号：比特斗牛犬。
Now, Mr. Nel is focusing the same judicial laser on Oscar Pistorius, the double-amputee sprinter charged with the murder of Reeva Steenkamp, his girlfriend, in a trial that has riveted a much broader audience around the world.
如今，内尔正以同样如激光般犀利的方式审讯奥斯卡·皮斯托利斯(Oscar Pistorius)——这名双腿被截肢的短跑运动员被控谋杀了女友瑞瓦·史汀坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)，这次庭审在世界范围引发了更多关注。
For the prosecutor’s admirers, the trial of Mr. Selebi — a turning point in post-apartheid South Africa — held other omens.
对于这名检察官的仰慕者来说，塞莱比案的庭审——南非后种族隔离时代的一个转折点——释放出了更多讯息。
During the investigation that preceded it, Mr. Nel, a prosecutor for more than three decades and a member of the country’s Afrikaner minority, had been the regional leader of the Scorpions, an elite anti-crime unit of prosecutors and investigators. The group was embroiled in a bare-knuckles political duel with other police units backed by powerful forces within the leadership of the governing African National Congress.
内尔担任检察官已超过30年，是南非少数民族阿非利卡族人。在该案庭审前的调查过程中，内尔是“蝎子”(Scorpions)组织的一名地区负责人。这是一支由检察官和调查人员组成的反刑事犯罪精锐部队。该组织当时与警方其他部门卷入了一场残酷的争斗，而后者得到了执政的非洲人国民大会党(African National Congress)内部一些强大势力的支持。
In January 2008, 20 of those officers burst into Mr. Nel’s home early one morning and arrested him in front of his family, taking him quickly off to prison on corruption charges that were soon dropped — a highly unusual episode that illuminated the stakes at play and tested the prosecutor’s commitment to his calling.
2008年1月的一个清晨，20名警察闯入内尔家中，在他家人面前逮捕了他，并以腐败为罪名迅速把他送进了监狱。这些指控很快被撤销。然而，这个极其不同寻常的插曲却突显了内尔任内承担的巨大风险，也证明了这名检察官对职责的忠诚。
“Why would you put up with that unless it’s justice that you are after?” said Kim Hawkey, a legal expert and journalist in Johannesburg, referring to the detention. “I don’t think anyone in that position could regard it as just a job.”
约翰内斯堡的记者、法律专家基姆·霍基(Kim Hawkey)提到这件事时说，“如果一个人不是为了追寻正义，他为什么愿意忍受这一切？我不认为坐到这个位置上的人会仅仅把它视作一份工作。”
On Monday, Mr. Pistorius is scheduled to return to the stand, beginning the second week of his testimony and the fourth day of painstaking cross-examination by Mr. Nel that has propelled the prosecutor into a global limelight rivaling the athlete’s own renown.
周一，皮斯托利斯将回到法庭，开始第二个星期的作证，这也是他第四天面对内尔令人痛苦的盘问。内尔在法庭上的盘问成为了全球关注的焦点，不亚于这名运动员的声望引发的关注。
Most graphically, Mr. Nel on Wednesday produced a photograph of Ms. Steenkamp’s head wounds, with brain tissue exposed, and demanded that Mr. Pistorius look at it.
一个最生动的例子是，周三，内尔拿出了一张史汀坎普头部伤口的照片，上面呈现了伤者的脑组织，内尔要求皮斯托利斯看着这张照片。
“That’s it — have a look, Mr. Pistorius,” the prosecutor snapped. “I know you don’t want to, because you don’t want to take responsibility, but it’s time that you look at it. Take responsibility for what you’ve done, Mr. Pistorius.”
“就是这个——你看看，皮斯托利斯，”内尔厉声说，“我知道你不想看，因为你不想承担责任，但是，是时候面对这一切了。为你的所作所为负起责任吧，皮斯托利斯。”
Mr. Pistorius crumbled. “I don’t have to look at a picture,” he mumbled. “I was there.”
皮斯托利斯顿时崩溃了。“我不需要看照片，”他含糊不清地说，“我当时在那啊。”
“Nel is a relentless prosecutor who argues with such intensity and sense of justice that it’s apparent he is personally invested in his cases,” said Mandy Wiener, an investigative journalist and the author of “Killing Kebble,” a study of another big case involving Mr. Nel. “For him, it’s about the facts. He can be very cold and very ruthless,” she said in a subsequent interview.
调查记者曼迪·威纳(Mandy Wiener)所著的《杀死基布尔》(Killing Kebble)一书研究了与内尔有关的另一桩大案。威纳说，“内尔是一名无情的检察官，他的论辩如此情绪饱满、充满正义感，就好像他把整个人都交给了案子。”她在随后的采访中说，“对他来说，真相是最重要的。他可以非常冷酷，非常无情。”
The judge in the case, Thokozile Masipa, warned him openly last week to stop calling Mr. Pistorius a liar while he was testifying. And the South African Human Rights Commission said on Friday that it had received a complaint that Mr. Nel’s persistent depiction of Mr. Pistorius as a liar infringed on the runner’s right to be presumed innocent and to have a fair trial.
该案的法官托科齐尔·马西珀(Thokozile Masipa)上周公开警告他说，不要在皮斯托利斯作证时将其称做骗子。南非人权委员会(South African Human Rights Commission)周五说，该机构收到了投诉，称内尔不断地把皮斯托利斯称作骗子，这侵犯了这名短跑运动员享有的无罪推定和公平审理的权利。
For all of Mr. Nel’s renown in South Africa, his private life has been kept under wraps. He grew up in the deeply conservative north of the country, around the town of Potgietersrus, now renamed Mokopane.
尽管内尔在南非的名气如雷贯耳，他的个人生活一直秘而不宣。他在南非北部地区波特希特斯特斯（现更名为莫科帕内）城附近，那是个非常保守的地方。
The few snippets about him that have emerged suggest some nuances beyond the public persona of a cropped-haired, courtroom-tough man, his leg cocked on a chair and his voice ranging from statement to sneer as he peers over tiny spectacles.
在公众眼中，内尔是一个剃着平头、在法庭上慷慨激昂的硬汉，一条腿踩在椅子上，时而高声陈述，时而讥讽冷笑，与此同时，从小眼镜片的上方盯着周遭的一切。但目前透露少数琐碎信息揭示了一些不一样的细节。
Mr. Nel is, for instance, claustrophobic, according to Ms. Wiener, and avoids taking elevators. He doodles complex patterns on his legal pad. There are, she said, “no airs and graces about him.” In his downtime, he teaches young children how to wrestle, the Afrikaans newspaper Rapport said on Sunday, quoting one of his pupil’s mothers as saying he “has endless patience and never loses his temper; the children love him.”
例如，据威纳说，内尔有幽闭恐惧症，从不坐电梯。他在他的法庭记录本上涂鸦，画复杂的图案。她说，“这个人毫无架子，从不装腔作势。”南非荷兰语报纸《和谐报》(Rapport)周日报道说，在业余时间，他教小孩子摔跤。该报援引他学生的母亲们的话说，“他拥有无限的耐心，从来不发脾气；孩子们爱他。”
Even in the courtroom, he surprised some judicial experts by seeming to ease the pressure on Mr. Pistorius at a crucial moment on Friday when, for 31 seconds, the athlete was unable to say whether Ms. Steenkamp screamed as he fired the first of four shots early on Feb. 14, 2013. The prosecution says Mr. Pistorius committed premeditated murder, but the athlete says that her death was a tragic mistake.
即使在法庭上，内尔也曾明显试图缓解皮斯托利斯的压力，这让一些法律专家感到不可思议。周五庭审中的一个关键性时刻，这名运动员一直无法回答在他2013年2月14日开第一枪的时候，史汀坎普是否曾尖叫过，内尔给了他长达31秒的时间。检方称皮斯托利斯实施了有预谋的谋杀，但这名运动员说，史汀坎普的死是一个错误酿成的悲剧。