PRETORIA, South Africa — Patience Mashele put on her black, gold and green shirt, hat and skirt and left her house before dawn. She didn’t want to be late. It was time to say goodbye.
南非比勒陀利亚——佩兴丝·马谢勒(Patience Mashele)穿上黑衬衫、绿裙子，戴上金色的帽子，在黎明前离开了家。她不想迟到。是时候说再见了。
A day after the world’s leaders, celebrities and royalty gathered in a stadium to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela in a pomp-filled ceremony, Wednesday was the people’s turn. They came by the thousands, black and white, frail and spry, from gated golf estates and tin-shack squatter camps, waiting to pay their final respects to the last and most beloved of a generation of leaders who liberated South Africa from apartheid.
周二，全球领导人、明星和皇室成员齐聚在一座体育场内，出席了一场盛况空前的悼念仪式，周三则是民众吊唁纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的日子。成千上万的人来到现场，等着向曼德拉致以最后的敬意。曼德拉是这一代领导人当中最后去世的一位，也是最受他们爱戴的一位，是他带领南非破除了种族隔离制度。悼念者有黑人也有白人，有少女也有老人，有的来自带有高尔夫球场的封闭式豪宅，也有的来自全是铁皮屋的棚户区。
The lines, which snaked through the capital for miles, were reminiscent of the endless queues that South Africans endured in 1994 to vote for Mr. Mandela’s African National Congress in the nation’s first fully democratic elections. At the time, people stood in lines, some miles long, to cast their ballots at the beginning of a hopeful new era. Now, they lined up to bid farewell, not just to a man, but for many, to that early period of optimism he represented.
吊唁队伍在首都蜿蜒了数英里长，让人想起了1994年的光景，那时候，南非人也排起了绵延无尽的长队伍，在该国第一次完全民主的选举当中为曼德拉领导的非洲人国民大会(African National Congress)投票。那时候，人们站在数英里长的队伍当中，等着在充满希望的新时代开启时投出自己的一票。现在，他们排队是为了告别，对许多人来说，他们告别的不仅是一名男子，还有他代表的那个充满乐观的先前时代。
“For our freedom he spent 27 years in prison,” Ms. Mashele said six hours into her sun-blasted wait to see the body of Mr. Mandela. “He gave me my freedom. I can wait a little longer.”
为瞻仰曼德拉的遗容，马谢勒已经在太阳下暴晒了6个小时。她说，“为了我们的自由，他在狱中度过了27年。他给了我自由。我多等一会儿也没关系。”
Mr. Mandela was lying in state on Wednesday below the sweeping facade of the Union Buildings in Pretoria, the seat of official power where he was sworn in 19 years ago as South Africa’s first black president.
周三，曼德拉的遗体停放在比勒陀利亚雄伟的联邦大厦跟前，那里是政权中心，也是他19年前宣誓成为南非第一位黑人总统的地方。
With his head and shoulders visible under a glass cover, and his body dressed in a brown shirt, his face — unmistakable to many around the world since his release from prison in 1990 — seemed serene.
人们可以透过玻璃棺盖看到他的头部和肩膀，他穿着一件褐色的衬衫，面容一片安详。自他于1990年出狱后，全世界的许多人都能够一眼认出他的面容。
“He looked peaceful,” Louisa Mogale, 24, said after filing past the coffin. “Although he lived for 95 years and I only saw him for two seconds, I’m grateful because it’s the first time and the last time I saw him.”
24岁的路易莎·莫盖尔(Louisa Mogale)在缓缓走过棺椁后说，“他看上去相当安详。他活了95年，而我只看了他两秒，可我还是感到庆幸，因为这是我第一次也是最后一次看见他。”
The sheer number of South Africans hoping to catch a glimpse of the body appeared to have overwhelmed the authorities, with thousands lined up at screening sites around the city to board buses to the Union Buildings. At the University of Pretoria sports facilities, a single white tent the size of a cottage was intended to serve a line that wound for hundreds of yards around the campus.
希望瞻仰遗体的南非人实在太多，似乎让当局不堪重负，数以千计的人在城市周边的检查站排队，等着登上前往联邦大厦的班车。比勒陀利亚大学(University of Pretoria)的运动场里支起了一个乡间别墅大小的白帐篷，旨在给绕着校园排了数百英尺长的队伍提供服务。
Kyle Garth, 39, from Cincinnati, said he held out little hope that the people at the back of the line would be able to see Mr. Mandela. He, his South African wife and their two children had already been waiting for over five hours and still had not made it into the tent. But his spirits remained still high.
39岁的凯尔·加思(Kyle Garth)来自辛辛那提，他说，他觉得排在队尾的人几乎不可能看到曼德拉。他和他的南非裔妻子已经带着两个孩子等了五个多小时，还是没能进入帐篷。不过，他依旧情绪高涨。
“The wait is definitely worth it to me,” Mr. Garth said. Without Mr. Mandela and the end of apartheid restrictions, he said, his wife never could have left South Africa and they never would have met. While the day’s transportation might be disorganized, he added, inching forward as the line shuffled on a bit, “this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.”
加思说，“对我来说，等待绝对是值得的。”他说，如果没有曼德拉，没有种族隔离制度的终结，他的妻子永远都不可能离开南非，他俩也永远无法相遇。他补充说，尽管当日的交通可能相当无序，“可这是一个一生一次的机会。”说话间，他随着慢慢推进的队伍往前挪了几步。
Mr. Mandela’s body is lying in state for three days before his funeral on Sunday, the latest solemn moment in the nation’s mourning for its former president and towering moral authority. Compared with the sometimes rambunctious national ceremony for Mr. Mandela on Tuesday in Soweto, where many in the crowd booed and hooted at President Jacob Zuma, the mood was more muted, as the reality of his death finally settled in, and the celebration of his life turned to grief at the loss.
周日举行葬礼前，曼德拉的遗体将停放三天。在为这位前总统和崇高的道义权威举行的举国悼念活动中，这是最近的庄严时刻。周二在索韦托举行全国悼念仪式时，现场不时出现喧闹的场景，因为人群中的许多人对现任总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)发出了嘘声和嘲讽。相比之下，这里的气氛更为肃静，因为人们最终意识到了曼德拉去世的现实，对他一生的庆祝变成了失去他的悲痛。
Mr. Zuma was among the first mourners to view the coffin along with family members, including Mr. Mandela’s widow, Graça Machel, and his former wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who were dabbing at their eyes with white handkerchiefs.
祖马和曼德拉的家人，其中包括曼德拉的遗孀格拉萨·马歇尔(Graça Machel)及前妻温妮·马迪基泽拉-曼德拉(Winnie Madikizela-Mandela)，属于第一批瞻仰灵柩的悼念者。马歇尔和温妮不时用白手帕拭泪。
As mourners walked across the vast lawn of the Union Buildings, past an equestrian statue of Louis Botha, a former general and prime minister, one man pointed at the figure and shouted, “That should be Mandela!”
悼念者次第穿过联邦大厦(Union Buildings)宽阔的草坪，经过曾担任过将军和总理的路易斯·博塔(Louis Botha)的骑马塑像，此时，一名男子指着塑像喊道，“在这里的应该是曼德拉！”
Mr. Mandela’s coffin is being transported for three successive mornings from a military mortuary to the Union Buildings, and the body will be flown to the Eastern Cape for the state funeral in Mr. Mandela’s childhood village, Qunu.
连续三个早上，当局都会把曼德拉的灵柩从一处军方殓房运往联邦大厦。曼德拉的遗体将被空运至东开普省，曼德拉的国葬将在该省的库努村举行，那是他童年时代生活的地方。
For the public, the lying-in-state was tightly controlled, with mourners shuttled in aboard hot and packed buses.
对普通民众而言，曼德拉的遗体告别仪式受到了严密控制，吊唁者得坐在又热又挤的班车里前往现场。
As Ms. Mashele, 41, waited to board one of those buses, she recounted the three times she had seen Mr. Mandela while he lived. The first was in 1990, after his release from prison. She had not yet been born when he was sent to prison by the apartheid regime for his part in the armed struggle to liberate South Africa. Possessing his picture was illegal when she was growing up. No one knew what he would look like when he emerged, she said. Yet he was a touchstone in her life.
等着登上班车的时候，41岁的马谢勒说起了自己三次看到曼德拉的经历。第一次是在1990年，曼德拉出狱之后。曼德拉因参与解放南非的武装斗争而被种族隔离政权送进监狱时，她还没有出生。在她成长的那个年代，持有曼德拉的照片是违法的。她说，没人知道他出狱之时会是什么样子。然而，他却是她生命的试金石。
“I ran away from my parents’ house and went to Soweto to see him,” she said with a giggle at her youthful enthusiasm. “I knew I had to see him in the flesh.”
“当时我偷偷跑出爸妈家，去索韦托见他，”说起自己年轻时的激情，她咯咯地笑了起来，“我知道，我必须看到他的真人。”
The next time was in 1994, when she joined the throng of thousands to watch him be sworn in at the Union Buildings.
第二次是1994年。当时她和成千上万的民众一起，看着他在联合大厦宣誓就职。
“It was everything we had dreamed of, all those years,” she said. “Our president, Nelson Mandela, at the Union Buildings. It was history.”
“那就是我们那么多年来梦寐以求的一切，”她说，“我们的总统纳尔逊·曼德拉站在了联邦大厦跟前。那就是历史。”
The last time she saw him alive was at the funeral of his son, Makgatho, who died of AIDS in 2005. She traveled to Mr. Mandela’s hometown, Qunu, to pay her respects.
她最后一次看到健在的曼德拉是在他儿子马克贾托(Makgatho)的葬礼上。2005年，马克贾托死于艾滋病。当时，她去曼德拉的家乡库努村表示敬意。
“It was a sorrowful day,” Ms. Mashele said. “I wanted to be there to mourn with him.”
“那是令人悲痛的一天，”马谢勒说，“我想在那里和他一起悼念亡者。”
Finally, on Wednesday, her bus slowly rumbled toward the Union Buildings, with their sweeping, winged facade dominating the leafy bowl of the capital below. It has been the seat of power since it was built, an emblem of white authority until the country’s first democratic elections brought Mr. Mandela to power. The building has also been the target of protests, most notably in 1956 when thousands of women converged on it in a demonstration against the pass laws — a cornerstone of apartheid.
终于，周三这天，她乘坐的班车轰隆隆地驶向了联邦大厦，这座带有侧翼的宏伟大楼庄严地俯视着山下树木茂密的首都。自建成之日起，这栋大厦一直是权力机构所在地，象征着白人的威权，直到这个国家的首届民主选举让曼德拉掌权为止。这栋大楼也是抗议活动的目标，最有名的抗议发生在1956年，当时有数千名女性聚集在这里抗议通行证法。通行证法是种族隔离制度的基石。
Ms. Mashele said that as a child she feared the place. But now, it is a symbol of South Africa’s democracy.
马谢勒说，小时候自己对这个地方感到恐惧。但现在，这里是南非民主的象征。
As she approached the coffin, Ms. Mashele tensed.
走近灵柩时，马谢勒变得紧张起来。
“I don’t know if I am ready,” she whispered.
“我不知道自己有没有做好心理准备，”她低声说。
“You can do it, my sister,” a police officer said, gently urging her on.
“你可以的，我的姊妹，”一名警察温和地鼓励她往前走。
She filed past the coffin, which was surrounded by lilies, orchids and a rare aloe from Mr. Mandela’s native Eastern Cape.
她缓缓走过灵柩，灵柩四周摆满了百合花、兰花和一种来自曼德拉老家东开普省的罕见芦荟。
“Hamba kahle,” Ms. Mashele said, wiping tears from her cheeks. The Zulu phrase, endlessly repeated in the last few days, means “go well.”
“Hamba kahle，”马谢勒一边说，一边擦拭脸颊的泪水。最近几天，这个祖鲁语短句被人重复了无数次，它的意思是“一路平安”。