It’s the soccer off-season in South Africa these days. Cape Town’s huge Green Point Stadium — purpose-built for the 2010 FIFA World Cup — sits dormant, an imposing but vacant sentry blotting the sweeping ocean views once enjoyed by the area’s wealthy residents. The $600 million, 55,000-seat behemoth was, for the past three seasons, home turf for Ajax Cape Town, the city’s only representative in South Africa’s premier soccer league.
最近是南非足球赛季之间的空白期。开普敦的大型体育设施绿点体育场(Green Point Stadium)——为2010年国际足球联合会(FIFA)世界杯(World Cup)而建——静静矗立在那里，像是一处宏伟却空无一人的岗哨，遮住了该地区的富裕居民曾经能欣赏到的开阔海景。过去三个赛季里，这座造价6亿美元（约合37亿元人民币）、能容纳5.5万人的宏伟建筑是开普敦阿贾克斯队(Ajax Cape Town)的主场。该队是开普敦市在南非足球超级联赛中的唯一代表。
But that status hasn’t earned the club any freebies. The City of Cape Town, which owns the stadium, allowed Ajax to use the stadium under a fixed-term rental contract that expires this year, returning the club for the moment to its training ground and spiritual home 12 miles away, in the working-class suburb of Parow.
但这一地位并未为该俱乐部赢得任何福利。绿点体育场的所有者开普敦市允许阿贾克斯队使用该体育场，是因为双方签订了一个有固定期限的租赁合同。合同今年到期，俱乐部暂时回到了12英里（约合19公里）外的训练场地兼精神家园。那里位于帕罗的郊区，是工薪阶层的聚居地。
South Africa’s experience four years after hosting a successful World Cup is a cautionary tale for Brazil, which has also spent heavily on building brand-new stadiums, often in remote areas, that may rarely be used again.
对巴西而言，南非在成功举办世界杯四年后的经历是一个警示，因为巴西也花重金修建了多座全新的体育场，这些体育场通常位于偏远地区，可能很少会再次被用到。
Before 2010, many people, including some government officials, wanted to upgrade a stadium in Athlone, a working-class neighborhood of mostly “colored,” or mixed-race, residents. They believed the investments in transport, security and economic infrastructure that would come from hosting World Cup matches in Athlone would reduce inequality.
2010年前，包括部分政府官员在内的许多人希望对阿斯隆的一座体育场进行升级。他们认为，为了阿斯隆举办世界杯比赛而对交通、安全和经济基础设施进行的投资会减轻贫富差距。阿斯隆是一个工薪阶层聚居的社区，居民主要来自“有色人种”或混血人种。
But international soccer’s governing body was appalled that the South African government might consider subjecting World Cup revelers to Athlone’s low-cost housing and other signs of poverty. Under FIFA’s strict instructions, local authorities capitulated and a new stadium was built in Green Point. That stadium stands today, a hollow nod to the South African government’s hope that hosting the World Cup would create public spaces where people would gather to transgress the apartheid-era boundaries that still divide them.
然而，对于南非政府可能考虑让世界杯的狂热球迷见识阿斯隆的低成本房屋和其他贫困迹象这一点，国际足球管理机构感到震惊。按照FIFA的严苛指示，地方当局做出让步，一座新体育场在绿点区拔地而起。这座体育场至今仍耸立在那里，彰示着南非政府落空的希望。政府本希望举办世界杯能开辟出公共空间，民众将在那里聚集，打破依然让他们之间存在分歧的种族隔离时代的界限。
Cape Town’s stadium symbolizes the worst of FIFA’s legacy in South Africa. It is a superfluous megastructure unwanted by the wealthier, mostly white residents nearby, and it is far away from the areas where soccer fans, who are mostly black and colored, live.
开普敦的这座体育场象征着FIFA在南非留下的最恶劣的影响。附近那些较为富裕的白人居民不想要这座多余的巨型建筑，而且它远离球迷的居住地。在当地，球迷主要来自黑人和有色人种。
The stadium has also become a strain on the public purse, costing the city at least $32 million since 2010. These funds could be better spent on the city’s more urgent priorities, such as providing sanitation and houses for the poor. The lack of such services continues to be the spark that periodically ignites protests.
这座体育场也成了公共财政的负担。自2010年以来，该市已在这座体育场上花了至少3200万美元。这些钱花在该市更紧迫的要务上会更好，比如为穷人提供卫生设施和房屋。这类服务的缺乏依然会周期性地引发抗议。
The city government says it wants the stadium to become a mixed-use venue, with a few long-term tenants to keep the crowds and revenue coming in during lean times when concerts and festivals are in short supply. However, except for Ajax, no other long-term tenants have been secured. And Cape Town’s major rugby teams appear wedded to their historical home in Newlands, another well-to-do suburb.
开普敦市政府称，想要让绿点球场变成多用途的场地，并拥有几个长期租用者，以便在音乐会和节庆活动不足时，也能保证源源不断的客流和营收。然而，除了阿贾克斯足球俱乐部之外，球场再没有其他的长期租用者。开普敦的几个主要的橄榄球队似乎不愿意离开它们在纽兰兹的传统场地。纽兰兹也是一个富庶的郊区。
Cape Town is not alone in this predicament. Other World Cup stadiums, particularly the ones built for the event, and the cities in which they are located, are experiencing similar difficulties in turning the venues into self-sustaining public spaces that serve some social good.
并非只有开普敦身陷此境。其他的世界杯比赛场馆——尤其是专为世界杯建造的场地——以及它们所在的城市，都经历着同样的困难，很难把这些场地变成自我持续的公共空间，为公众带来福利。
The fact that genuine public discussions about who should foot the bill and whether the costs were reasonable is happening belatedly is a testament to how successful FIFA is at using the near-universal love for soccer and the World Cup to draw people and their governments into agreements in which the fine print reads that FIFA pockets the profits and the host nations pick up the cost.
关于费用应该由谁承担、以及成本是否合理的真正公众讨论来得如此之晚，这就证明了FIFA已经无比成功地利用了全世界对足球和世界杯的喜爱，以诱惑民众及其政府与自己达成协议。这些协议中的小字细则写道，利润归FIFA所有，成本则由主办国承担。
And now the same thing is happening in Brazil. For their part, Brazilians have responded to FIFA’s poisoned chalice in a more organized fashion than South Africans ever managed before, during or after the event. After seeing how the FIFA World Cup sausage is made, you might think that the protests in Brazil would make uncomfortable viewing for us in South Africa, but you’d be wrong.
如今，同样的事正发生在巴西身上。从巴西方面来讲，面对FIFA下了毒的金杯，巴西人的反应比南非的尝试更有条理，不管是在活动前、活动中，还是活动后。在看到FIFA世界杯的本质之后，你可能认为，巴西的抗议活动会让南非人不舒服，但是你错了。
For some South Africans it’s about pragmatism. Take Ajax, for example. The club is happy to move to Green Point stadium because it allows them to offer fans more than soccer; it can offer safer facilities within walking distance of nightlife, restaurants and other forms of entertainment that are absent in the suburbs, where the majority of the club’s fan base lives. They can also raise ticket prices and potentially attract richer fans.
对于一些南非人来说，实用主义才是王道。以阿贾克斯为例，这个俱乐部很乐意搬到绿点球场，因为它可以让俱乐部为粉丝提供足球以外的更多东西；它能提供更安全的设施；从这里步行就可抵达夜生活的场所、餐馆和其他形式的娱乐设施，这都是郊区不具备的，虽然阿贾克斯的球迷多数住在郊区。他们还可以提高票价，并且有可能吸引到更富裕的球谜。
But for the most part, the memory of hosting an outwardly perfect global event still evokes a hallowed glow of national pride, even though, inwardly, the event failed to deliver the promised boost to our economy.
但最主要的原因是，对于主办一次表面上完美无暇的全球赛事的记忆，仍然会唤起一种闪耀着神圣光辉的民族自豪感，虽然实际上，这次比赛并没有像承诺的那样，给我们的经济带来提振。
South Africans showed in 2010, and are showing again now by remaining glued to our screens in wonderment, that we are willing to hold whatever discontent we may feel about FIFA and the World Cup’s legacy in abeyance for the love of the game and for national pride. One can only hope that — win or lose — the Brazilians will be tougher and demand more of their leaders.
南非人在2010年曾证明，出于对这项运动的热爱和对民族自豪的珍视，我们愿意搁置对FIFA和世界杯遗产的所有不满。如今，我们仍然满怀期待地盯着电视屏幕，再次证明了这一点。但愿无论巴西队是赢是输，巴西人都会更加强硬，对他们的领导人提出更多诉求。