LONDON — With a judge seeking to strike a balance between mercy and retribution, Oscar Pistorius, the South African track star, was sentenced Tuesday to five years in prison for killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp.
伦敦——法官寻求在仁慈和惩罚之间得到某种平衡，于周二判处南非田径明星奥斯卡·皮斯托瑞斯(Oscar Pistorius)五年徒刑，他杀死了女友瑞瓦·史汀坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)。
The athlete’s defense team said the law under which he was punished calls for him to serve only one-sixth of the prison term — 10 months — before he can be placed on house arrest. He was also given a suspended three-year term on separate firearms charges.
皮斯托瑞斯的辩护律师团队表示，按照判刑所依据的法律的要求，他只需要在狱中服六分之一的刑期，也就是10个月，剩下的刑期可以软禁的方式服完。他还因与杀人无关的其他枪械指控被判处三年徒刑，缓期执行。
But some South African legal experts said the conversion of prison time to house arrest was not automatic and required negotiations with the correctional authorities. After serving half the sentence, Mr. Pistorius can also apply for parole.
但是，一些南非法律专家表示，从监狱服刑变为软禁的转换不是自动的，需要与监狱方面进行谈判。服了一半刑期后，皮斯托瑞斯还可以申请假释。
Ms. Steenkamp’s family said it was “satisfied” with the ruling, although the National Prosecuting Authority said it had not yet decided whether to appeal.
史汀坎普的家人表示，他们对判决结果“满意”，尽管国家检察机关表示，尚未决定是否上诉。
“I’m just glad it’s over,” June Steenkamp, the victim’s mother, told reporters outside the courtroom.
受害人的母亲琼·史汀坎普(June Steenkamp)在法庭外对记者说，“谢天谢地这个案子了结了。”
Mr. Pistorius’s family said it was not planning to appeal. “We accept the judgment,” Arnold Pistorius, the athlete’s uncle, said in a statement, appealing to the news media to “let us move forward” and “give us some degree of dignity and privacy as we do so.”
皮斯托瑞斯的家人说，他们不打算上诉。“我们接受判决，”奥斯卡的叔父阿诺德·皮斯托瑞斯(Arnold Pistorius)在一份声明中说，他呼吁新闻媒体“让我们能走向未来”，并“在我们这样做时，让我们有一些尊严和隐私”。
“Oscar will embrace this opportunity to pay back to society,” the uncle said.
这位叔父说，“奥斯卡将用这个机会全力报答社会。”
Virtually since the moment of the shooting, Mr. Pistorius has been free on bail, living in his uncle’s luxurious mansion. But for now, Martin Hood, a South African lawyer, told Sky News, Mr. Pistorius is a sentenced prisoner and will spend the night in a cell at Pretoria’s main prison.
基本上自从枪杀发生的那一刻起，皮斯托瑞斯就一直被保释在外，住在叔叔家的豪宅里。但是，南非律师马丁·胡德(Martin Hood)告诉天空新闻(Sky News)，皮斯托瑞斯现在已是一位被判刑的囚犯，将在比勒陀利亚的主要监狱的牢房里度过这个夜晚。
“It’s going to be a cold, harsh reality for him tonight,” Mr. Hood said.
胡德说，“那里很冷，今夜对他来说将是一个严酷的现实。”
Live television images showed Mr. Pistorius being driven away from the courtroom in an armored police van. Blue-uniformed officers sat with him, while others, in bulletproof vests, were hanging from the rear.
电视直播画面显示，皮斯托瑞斯被装甲警车从法庭带走。身穿蓝色制服的警员坐在他的两旁，身穿防弹背心的警员搭在车后门外随车而去。
In September, Judge Masipa found Mr. Pistorius, 27, guilty of culpable homicide but she acquitted him on more serious murder charges.
九月份，马西珀法官(Judge Masipa)判27岁的皮斯托瑞斯犯有过失杀人罪，但在更严重的谋杀指控上，判他无罪。
The prosecution had sought a 10-year jail term, while the defense had requested that he be placed under house arrest for three years and perform community service. Judge Masipa had wide discretion on possible sentences ranging from a fine to 15 years in prison.
指控方曾寻求10年监禁的量刑，而辩护方则请求判他三年软禁及社区服务性劳役。马西珀法官在量刑上有很大的自行决定权，最低可判罚款，最高可判15年徒刑。
The disabled athlete has admitted killing Ms. Steenkamp, 29, on Feb. 14, 2013, but he said he did so by mistake, firing four rounds from a handgun through a locked toilet cubicle door in the belief that an intruder had entered his home.
这位残疾人运动员承认在2013年2月14日杀死了29岁的史汀坎普，但他说那是误杀，他以为入侵者进了他的家，所以用手枪向厕所隔间锁着的门发射了四发子弹。
Judge Masipa spent 65 minutes summing up her decision before telling the athlete, “Mr. Pistorius, please rise.”
马西珀法官用了65分钟总结自己的判决，然后对这位运动员说，“皮斯托瑞斯先生，请起身。”
Quoting at length from legal precedents, Judge Masipa said her sentence was “about achieving the right balance — proportionality.”
长篇引用了法律判例后，马西珀法官说，自己的判决是“为了达到适当的平衡，也就是相称原则”。
She was critical of the testimony of two defense witnesses, who had recommended a sentence of house arrest with community service. But she praised the testimony of Zach Modise, a senior prison services officer who said that South African prisons were equipped to deal with a disabled inmate’s needs.
她不赞成两名辩护方证人的证词，他们建议软禁和社区服务性劳役。但她表扬了监狱高级官员扎克·莫迪塞(Zach Modise)的证词，他表示，南非的监狱有能力满足一位残疾犯人的需求。
Judge Masipa said a long sentence would lack “mercy,” while a more lenient sentence would “send the wrong message to the community.”
马西珀法官说，长期的监禁会缺少“仁慈”，但是，过于宽大的量刑会“向社区传递一个错误的信息”。
At the same time, she said, “the courts do not exist to win popularity contests.”
同时她说，“法庭不是为了赢得最受欢迎者竞赛而存在的。”
“It would be a sad day for this country if an impression was created that there is one law for the poor and disadvantaged and another for the rich and famous,” she said.
她说，“如果制造了一种印象，既有一套适用于穷人和弱势群体的法律，另有一套适用于富人和名人的，那对这个国家来说将是悲哀的一天。”
“Righteous anger,” she said, “should not cloud judgment.”
她说，“正义的怒火不应该模糊判断力。”
Judge Masipa focused closely on the moment when, in the early hours of Feb. 14, Mr. Pistorius rose from his bed, grabbed a handgun loaded with so-called Black Talon ammunition and fired four rounds.
马西珀法官主要关心的是2月14日的凌晨时刻，皮斯托瑞斯从床上起来，拿起装有所谓黑爪弹药的手枪，射出了四发子弹。