LONDON — South African prosecutors told an appellate court on Tuesday that Oscar Pistorius, the Olympic runner who was found guilty of culpable homicide in the killing of his girlfriend, should have been convicted of the more serious crime of murder.
伦敦——周二，南非检方就奥斯卡·皮斯托瑞斯(Oscar Pistorius)枪杀女友一案提起上诉。检方认为，此前被判处过失杀人罪的皮斯托瑞斯，本应被判处更重的谋杀罪。
They argued that the trial judge who acquitted Mr. Pistorius of murder last year erred when she accepted his argument that he had thought he was aiming at an intruder when he fired four shots through a locked bathroom door at his Pretoria home in February 2013. The shots killed his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, 29, a law school graduate and budding reality-television star.
检方认为，初审法官不应该接受皮斯托瑞斯的辩词，在去年判决其谋杀罪不成立。当时，皮斯托瑞斯辩称，2013年2月，他在比勒陀利亚的家中朝浴室上锁的门连开四枪时，以为枪击目标是一名入侵者。他开枪杀死的人，是他的女友里瓦·斯廷坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)，一位29岁的法学院毕业生，同时也是崭露头角的真人秀明星。
The offense for which Mr. Pistorius was convicted in September 2014 — culpable homicide, roughly equivalent to manslaughter — was not the correct one, the prosecutors argued before the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein.
在位于布隆方丹的最高上诉法院(Supreme Court of Appeal)，南非检方提出，皮斯托瑞斯在2014年9月被判处过失杀人罪，该判决有误。
Mr. Pistorius’s early release from prison last month infuriated Ms. Steenkamp’s family, as well as women’s rights groups, which argue that he deserved a harsher sentence. He is to spend the remainder of his sentence, about four years, under house arrest and “correctional supervision,” and he is staying in the home of his uncle Arnold Pistorius, a wealthy businessman.
皮斯托瑞斯上个月获准提早出狱，激怒了斯廷坎普的家人和妇女权益团体。他们认为，皮斯托瑞斯应该受到更严苛的惩处。出狱后，皮斯托瑞斯将受到软禁和“改造管教”，在他的富商叔叔阿诺德·皮斯托瑞斯(Arnold Pistorius)的家中度过剩下的四年刑期。
The trial riveted South Africa and raised issues of class, celebrity, violence against women and race in a country that is still grappling with its sense of identity two decades after the fall of apartheid. It also offered two starkly competing narratives of one of the world’s most famous disabled athletes, a double-amputee who has competed at the Olympic Games as well as the Paralympics.
皮斯托瑞斯一案在南非受到极大关注，引发了民众对阶层、名人、种族、针对妇女的暴力等议题的热议。在废除种族隔离二十年之后，南非依然深陷在身份认知的漩涡当中。这位双腿截肢、同时参加过奥运会和残奥会，堪称全世界最著名残疾人运动员之一的“刀锋战士”，在这案件中，呈现出了两张截然不同的面孔。
The defense depicted Mr. Pistorius, 28, as a caring boyfriend who, feeling vulnerable because he was not wearing his prosthetic legs at the time, fired his gun to protect himself and Ms. Steenkamp. Prosecutors sought to present him as a brash and jealous man with a love of guns who killed Ms. Steenkamp in a violent rage after an argument, and who then concocted a cover-up.
辩方描绘的皮斯托瑞斯，是一个28岁的贴心男友，事发时因为没有戴着假肢而深感无助，而他开枪是为了保护他自己和女友斯廷坎普小姐。检方则力图证明，他脾气暴躁，又爱吃醋，还喜欢枪支。在和女友争吵后，他勃然大怒杀死了对方，随后又编造了谎言。
Presenting its case before five judges on Tuesday, the prosecution argued that the trial judge, Thokozile Matilda Masipa, had wrongly applied the legal principle of dolus eventualis — the notion that a person should be held accountable for the consequences of their actions if they are foreseeable. Mr. Pistorius shot to kill when he fired into the bathroom, the prosecutors said, even if he believed, as the defense argued, that Ms. Steenkamp was in the bedroom.
周二，检方向五名法官提交上诉时声称，初审法官托柯齐莱·玛蒂尔达·马西珀(Thokozile Matilda Masipa)错误运用了“未必故意”(dolus eventualis)法律原则：即如果行为造成的后果是他本人可以预期的，则当事人应当对此负责。检方认为，皮斯托瑞斯向浴室开枪射击是为了杀人，即使如辩方所称，他认为女友斯廷坎普当时在卧室。
“The court should have rejected his evidence as impossible, if the court took into account the circumstantial evidence,” the chief prosecutor, Gerrie Nel, told the court. “The court should’ve rejected his evidence because he was a poor witness.”
“如果法庭采信间接证据，就应该拒绝承认他的证词，因为根本不可能成立，”首席公诉人格里·内尔(Gerrie Nel)向法庭表示，“法庭本不该采信他的证据，因为他不是一个可信的证人。”
He added: “On the objective facts, the accused cannot escape a conviction of murder.”
他补充道，“从客观事实出发，被告人不可能脱身谋杀罪。”
But the defense, which also presented arguments on Tuesday, reiterated its stance that Mr. Pistorius had feared for his life when he fired the shots that killed Ms. Steenkamp.
但辩方同样在周二提出申辩，重申其立场，称皮斯托瑞斯开枪射杀斯廷坎普，是因为他害怕自己的生命受到威胁。
The appellate court could overturn Mr. Pistorius’s previous conviction, or order a new trial. At least one of the appellate judges indicated that a retrial was not the preferred option. If convicted of murder, Mr. Pistorius could face 15 years behind bars.
上诉法庭可能推翻皮斯托瑞斯案此前的判决，或者命令重新审理。至少有一位上诉法院的法官表示，重审不是最佳办法。如果被判处谋杀罪，皮斯托瑞斯就会面临十五年的牢狱生涯。
Mr. Pistorius was not present at the hearing, which was televised.
皮斯托瑞斯没有出席电视转播的聆讯。
June Steenkamp, Ms. Steenkamp’s mother, sat stoically in the courthouse. In an interview with Sky News on Tuesday, she called for Mr. Pistorius to face a tougher punishment.
斯廷坎普的母亲琼·斯廷坎普(June Steenkamp)，神情坚毅地坐在法院里。周二在接受天空新闻台(Sky News)的采访中，她呼吁让皮斯托瑞斯面对更加严峻的惩罚。