HONG KONG — A Japanese-Australian woman was sentenced on Wednesday to a 10-month jail term in Singapore over blog posts that besmirched foreigners in the city-state.
香港——周三，因在博客上发文诋毁生活在城市国家新加坡的外国人，一名日裔澳大利亚女子被判处10个月监禁。
The woman, Ai Takagi, 23, pleaded guilty to four counts of sedition over the articles, posted on a website, called The Real Singapore, that she ran with her Singaporean husband, Yang Kaiheng. The articles “were intended from the outset to provoke unwarranted hatred against foreigners in Singapore,” District Judge Salina Ishak said on Wednesday, according to a copy of the oral grounds for her decision.
这名女子叫高木爱(Ai Takagi)，23岁。她对发表在“真实新加坡”(The Real Singapore)网站上的文章招致的四项煽动罪名表示认罪。该网站由她和新加坡籍丈夫杨凯兴(Yang Kaiheng)共同经营。地区法官萨利娜·伊沙克(Salina Ishak)周三说，那些文章“从一开始就是为了针对在新加坡的外籍人士，煽动毫无根据的仇恨”，法官口头说明判决依据时的笔录显示。
Ms. Takagi was a law student in Brisbane, Australia, while she edited the website. She was arrested last year while vacationing in Singapore. Mr. Yang also faces charges, and he is scheduled to go on trial next week. He has pleaded not guilty.
担任该网站的编辑时，高木爱还是澳大利亚布里斯班的一名法学专业学生。她是去年在新加坡度假时被捕的。杨凯兴也面临多项指控，定于下周出庭受审。他称自己无罪。
Ms. Takagi, who is eight weeks pregnant, apologized in court. “I now know that the harmony which Singapore enjoys today requires careful and continuous efforts on the part of everyone, citizens and visitors alike, to maintain,” she said.
已怀孕八周的高木爱当庭道歉。她说，“我现在知道，新加坡今天的和谐，需要人人都不断地认真做出努力才能保持，不管是新加坡公民还是游客，都一样。”
Free-speech advocates have long criticized Singapore’s tight curbs on expression, but officials say laws prohibiting the incitement of ethnic hatred are important for maintaining harmony in the country’s diverse population.
言论自由倡导人士长期指责新加坡严厉的言论控制。但新加坡官方称，该国人口组成多元，禁止煽动族群仇恨的法律对保持和谐很重要。
The blog was billed as a format for allowing Singaporeans to freely express their thoughts. Judge Ishak said that the comments posted in response to the articles showed they had “engendered vitriol and hatred.”
该博客宣称是一个允许新加坡人自由表达想法的平台。伊沙克法官表示，读者对相关文章发表的评论显示，文章“激起了抨击和仇恨”。
One article accused a family of Filipinos of stirring unrest over a Hindu ceremony, which prosecutors said was a falsehood. Another falsely stated that a woman from China had encouraged her grandson to urinate in a bottle while on public transit, the court ruled.
其中一篇文章指责一家菲律宾人，在一场印度教仪式上引发了骚乱。检方称这一说法不属实。另一篇文章称，一名中国女子在乘坐公共交通工具时，鼓励孙子把尿撒在瓶子里。法院认定这一说法也是杜撰的。