WASHINGTON — John A. Boehner beat back an embarrassing challenge to his speakership on Tuesday from restless conservatives as Republicans assumed control of both houses of Congress for the first time in eight years.
华盛顿——周二，在共和党八年来首次掌控国会两院之际，约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)击退了不安分的保守派对自己的议长地位发起的一次令人尴尬的挑战。
The dissent from the right wing illustrated how challenging the next two years could be for Republicans, who now own the political liability that comes with being in charge on Capitol Hill at a time when dismayed voters are more likely than ever to turn on the party in power.
右翼的反对突显了未来两年共和党人将面临多大的挑战。失望的选民们比以往任何时候都更有可能把矛头指向掌权的政党，在此时重掌国会的共和党将要负担政治责任。
Two dozen Republicans voted against the speaker, somewhat diminishing what should have been a day of euphoria for the party.
二十几名共和党人对博纳投了反对票，或多或少地影响了这个对共和党来说值得庆祝的日子。
In the House, Republicans have their largest majority since the post-World War II era, 246 seats. In the Senate, where 12 freshmen Republicans were sworn in on Tuesday, the party has 54 seats to 46 for the Democrats, including a lone freshman.
在众议院，共和党人拥有246个席位，是二战后以来最多的一次。在参议院，12名新共和党参议员周二宣誓就职，共和党拥有54个席位，相比之下，民主党拥有46个席位，其中只有一名新参议员。
Defections in a vote for speaker have been fairly rare in recent years. By contrast, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the new majority leader, faced no opposition when his colleagues chose him before the holiday recess.
在议长选举中倒戈的情况这些年来并不多见。相比之下，在假日季休会之前的选举中，新任多数党领袖、来自肯塔基州的参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)则没有遭遇反对，同僚们都把票投给了他。
The expectations are high for Republicans to deliver on their promise of making Congress work like a functional governing body again. Mr. Boehner and Mr. McConnell have already set in motion the process to hold votes on approving the Keystone XL pipeline, a project they have both championed as a job creator. Proposed Keystone legislation, with bipartisan sponsorship, became the first bill introduced in the new Senate.
外界对共和党抱有很高的期望，指望它能使国会作为一个尽职的管理机构重新运转起来。博纳和麦康奈尔已经启动了Keystone XL输油管道工程的投票，两人都支持这个可以带来就业机会的项目。在两党的支持下，Keystone提案成了新参议院引入的第一份法案。
They hope to get a bill to President Obama’s desk by the end of the month, but White House spokesman Josh Earnest said the president would not sign it.
他们希望这份法案在本月底之前能够出现在奥巴马的办公桌上，不过，白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说，总统不会签署该法案。
As members trudged into the Capitol on Tuesday morning with a snowstorm swirling outside, Republicans were pressing their case for a new agenda with a bold economic plan as its centerpiece.
周二上午，当议员们步履艰难地走进国会大厦时，暴风雪正在屋外咆哮。共和党一直在大力陈述制定一项新议程的理由。新议程的核心是大胆的经济计划。
“Our first priority for the next two years,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership, “will be alleviating the economic pain the American people have experienced under the Obama administration.”
“我们未来两年的首要任务，”南达科他州参议员、共和党领导人之一约翰·图恩(John Thune)说，“将是缓解奥巴马政府之下美国人民在经济上遭受的痛苦。”
Though it was a rough opening day for the speaker, there is no question that Mr. Boehner is taking command of a far different class than he took over in 2011 when he led a fractious and often disloyal bunch of more than 80 freshmen, many of whom had no legislative experience at all. He took a more direct role in recruiting the new class as he sought out more compromise-oriented, center-right candidates.
尽管对博纳来说，这是一个艰难的开议日，但毫无疑问，他现在领导的这个群体，远不同于他2011年领导的那群人。那时候，他带领着80多名脾气暴躁、动不动就倒戈的新晋议员，许多人根本没有立法经验。在组建新一届国会期间，他发挥了更直接的作用，选出了更重视妥协的中右翼候选人。
Tuesday’s vote for speaker represented a reach for relevance by some rank-and-file conservative lawmakers, including those making good on campaign promises about standing up to Mr. Boehner and the culture of Washington. For Mr. Boehner, meanwhile, by squashing a conservative uprising and winning handily sent a strong signal to House Republicans, as well as conservative outside groups, that he will not be cowed by recalcitrant members of his conference.
周二的议长人选投票表明，一些普通的保守派议员已经有了一些影响力。他们中的部分人兑现了要对抗博纳及华盛顿文化的竞选承诺。与此同时，博纳通过镇压保守派发动的起义并轻而易举地获胜，向众议院的共和党人，以及外部保守派团体传达了一个强烈的信号，那就是他不会被自己领导下的不服从者威胁到。