WASHINGTON — After House Republicans began their closed-door meeting on Tuesday with an impromptu rendition of “Amazing Grace,” Speaker John A. Boehner stood up with what he hoped would be an equally inspiring message.
华盛顿——周二，在众议院共和党人伴着一曲即兴演绎的《奇异恩典》(Amazing Grace)开始了他们的闭门会议后，议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)宣布了一条消息，他希望这条消息能像歌曲一样振奋人心。
The Senate was trying to steamroll the House with a new plan to reopen the government and lift the debt ceiling, leaving his team with only two options: “We can wait on the Senate for four days and accept whatever they give us,” he told them. “Or we can go on offense and force their hand.”
为了强迫众议院就范，参议院正在制定一项新方案，以重开政府并提高举债上限，这只留给博纳的人两个选择：“要么，我们等上参议院四天，然后对他们的计划照单全收，”他向在座者说道。“要么，我们采取行动，逼他们接招。”
It was yet another moment of decision for Mr. Boehner, who finally finds himself at the crossroads he has been marching toward for weeks: an imminent financial default on the one hand, and on the other an unyielding conservative rank and file that persists with the futile effort to take down President Obama’s health care law even if they also take down the speaker in the process.
对约翰·博纳来说，这又是一个需要作出抉择的时刻。过去几周，他一直朝着这个十字路口迈进，如今，他终于到了这个十字路口：一边是迫在眉睫的债务违约，一边是一群顽固保守的普通议员。这些议员明知徒劳，却仍在试图终结奥巴马总统的医疗法案，甚至不惜在此过程中让这位众议院议长跟着倒下。
While his colleagues sang about how what once was lost had now been found, Mr. Boehner did not tell them a more dispiriting truth: With less than 48 hours left before the nation is set to exhaust its authority to borrow money, he and his lieutenants were running out of ideas — a fact made starkly evident by the mad and fruitless scramble on Tuesday to come up with a measure that could win enough support from his members. Around 7 p.m., he sent the House home and canceled all votes for the day.
当他的同事们欢呼，他们找回了曾经失去的感觉之时，博纳并没有告诉他们一个更加令人沮丧的事实：再过不到48个小时，这个国家就会失去举债权，而他和助手们如今却不知所措。周二当天，他们疯狂而徒劳的仓促行动让这一事实显而易见，他们当时尝试拿出一个可以获得足够议员支持的方案。大约在晚上7点，他让议员们回家，取消了当天所有的投票安排。
“He’s herding cats,” said Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia.
“他简直就是在赶一群猫，”乔治亚州共和党众议员汤姆·普赖斯(Tom Price)说。
He initially tried to unite his conference around a plan that had a little bit for everyone. For his hard-line conservative members, Mr. Boehner’s proposal would have eliminated government contributions for the purchase of health insurance on the new exchanges for lawmakers, White House officials and their staffs, as well as forbidden the Treasury Department to use “extraordinary measures” to extend its borrowing capabilities. For his more moderate members, Mr. Boehner offered a simple appeal — his plan would have reopened the government through Dec. 15, and extended the nation’s borrowing authority through Feb. 7.
起初，博纳试图将麾下的共和党人团结起来，制定一个人人都能接受的方案。针对那些强硬的保守派议员来说，他提出取消政府对议员、白宫官员和幕僚在新交易市场里购买健康保险的资助，并禁止财政部使用“非常措施”延长其借贷权限。对于更加温和的议员，他提出了一个简单的诱饵——使政府重启并运行至12月15日，同时将联邦政府举债权限延长至明年2月7日。
But conservatives and their advocacy groups balked and Mr. Boehner was forced to set his plan aside.
但是保守派和相关倡导团体不愿接受，从而迫使博纳搁置这个方案。
“This is about as challenging as it can be, in terms of trying to figure out where the effective agreement is going to be to move forward and how do you get to that point where everybody looks at that and says, ‘Well, that isn’t everything but that’s a reasonable way forward,’ ” said David Winston, a Republican strategist and close adviser to Mr. Boehner.
“这的确是个很大的挑战，他们得搞清楚如何达成有效的一致意见从而向前推进，并让众人看到之后说，‘哦，这虽说不上完美却也是可行的法子，’”博纳身边的顾问、共和党策略师戴维·温斯顿(David Winston)说。
Almost every day since the government shutdown began on Oct. 1, Mr. Boehner and his besieged band of House Republicans have trotted out a new gambit to try to outmaneuver Senate Democrats and the president. The public was upset over closed national monuments? Pass legislation reopening them. Vital health and safety services had no staff to carry out their functions? Appropriate money to finance them.
自从政府10月1日关门后，约翰·博纳和他那帮陷入重围的众议院共和党人几乎每天都会抛出一个新提案，试图在与参议院民主党人和总统的对抗中占到上风。公众已经对国家纪念场所的关闭感到不快？通过立法重新开放它们吧。关键的健康和安全服务部门没有职员行使其职能？那就给他们拨出适量款项吧。
All the while, Mr. Boehner tended carefully to the members of his fractious conference. He joined them Friday night for P. F. Chang’s Chinese takeout in the Capitol. After an appearance on the Sunday talk shows, he shopped at his local Harris Teeter and invited some lawmakers to his Capitol Hill townhouse for burgers, manning the grill himself. He assumed the role of battlefield commander, admonishing the president in public in the sternest of terms.
与此同时，博纳谨慎地关注着麾下四分五裂的共和党议员。周五晚上，他与这些人一起吃了华馆(P. F. Chang)的中餐外卖。在周日谈话节目中露面后，他到本地的哈里斯蒂特(Harris Teeter)商店购物，并邀请一些议员到自己国会山的住所吃汉堡，还亲自烧烤。他扮演了战场指挥官的角色，用最严厉的措辞公开抨击奥巴马。
Mr. Boehner has also sought solace in his routines. He still takes long walks in the morning before heading to his office in the Capitol, and often eats breakfast alone at the counter of Pete’s Diner not far from his house. Earlier this month, shortly after the shutdown began, Mr. Boehner huddled in his Capitol suite with a group of allies and loyal members — Representatives Tom Cole of Oklahoma, John Kline of Minnesota and Pat Tiberi of Ohio, among others — known as “Team Boehner.”
博纳也从自己的日常习惯中寻求慰籍。早上去国会山办公室前，他仍会长时间散步，还常常在居所附近的皮特餐馆(Pete’s Diner)的吧台上独自吃早餐。本月早些时候，政府关门后不久，博纳在自己的国会山套房里召集了一群盟友和比较忠诚的众议员：俄克拉何马州的汤姆·科尔(Tom Cole)、明尼苏达州的约翰·克兰(John Kline)，以及俄亥俄州的帕特·蒂贝里(Pat Tiberi)等人。这些人被称为“博纳帮”。
The strategy has largely worked, so far satisfying the most unmanageable of Mr. Boehner’s restive conservative members. But the next 48 hours may prove the biggest test of Mr. Boehner’s career and determine his future at the top of House Republicans. “It’s tough,” said Senator Saxby Chambliss, the Georgia Republican who is one of the speaker’s closest friends in Congress. “Trying to find 218 votes is never easy. But right now it’s harder than ever.”
博纳的策略大体奏效了，截至目前，他手下不听话的保守派议员中最难以驾驭的那些人得到了满足。不过，接下来的48小时或许会成为他政治生涯中最大的考验，并且决定他在众议院共和党领导层中的未来。来自乔治亚州的共和党参议员萨克斯比·钱布利斯(Saxby Chambliss)是博纳在国会中最亲密的朋友之一，他说，“这很艰难。努力锁定218张票一直都不容易，如今更是难上加难。”
A major source of Mr. Boehner’s limitations as speaker is simple math. Republicans control 232 seats, and 218 are required for a majority when there are no vacancies, meaning that in most instances, he can afford to lose only 14 Republican votes. For much of the 113th Congress, that has meant that the only bills guaranteed to pass are simple, nonpartisan matters like renaming a federal building or ones that strongly reflect conservative policies like the ban on abortion 20 weeks after fertilization.
博纳作为议长的局限性的一大来源是简单的数字。共和党人控制了232个席位，在无人缺席的情况下，需要218张票来形成多数。这就意味着，他只能损失14张共和党选票。在第113届国会的大部分时候，这意味着能确保通过的，要么是简单且无党派分歧的议案，比如为一座联邦大楼重新命名，要么是保守主义色彩浓厚的提案，比如禁止受孕20周后堕胎。
Because Mr. Boehner can almost never guarantee Senate leaders that his conference will vote with him, he has greatly diminished bargaining power in the current fight as his members pass one dead-end bill after another. “There’s a silent majority in the conference,” said Representative Devin Nunez, Republican of California. “We have too many guys who don’t understand that without 218 you have no leverage. At the end of the day that’s the problem.”
由于博纳几乎永远不能向参议院领导层保证旗下的共和党众议员会与他保持一致，而共和党人又在一次又一次地通过没有结果的议案，他在本轮比拼中的谈判能力便被极大地削弱了。“这是个没有声音的多数党，”来自加利福尼亚州的共和党众议员德温·努涅斯(Devin Nunez)说。“我们这边有太多人不明白，凑不到218票就意味着没有筹码。说到底，这才是问题所在。”
That has not stopped Mr. Boehner from trying. He has been in near constant contact with Republican leaders in the Senate, who have conveyed to Mr. Boehner what they believe their moderate Democratic counterparts might be willing to accept. He has also been carefully soliciting the views of his own members, bringing in at least two small groups of moderate legislators for private meetings, and buttonholing other colleagues on the House floor and in the cloakroom.
这并没有让博纳止步不前。他与参议院共和党领导层的联系几乎从未间断，后者在向他传达，在他们看来民主党温和派参议员可能愿意接受哪些东西。博纳还一直在仔细搜集本党众议员的意见，私下里至少与两小拨温和派进行了会谈，还会在众议院会场和衣帽间里硬拉住其他一些同僚，展开对话。
“He is a really good listener,” said Representative James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma and the chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee. “So he’s constantly trying to figure out, is this one person or is this a group that thinks this? And how large is that group? I just think he has a really unique skill of being able to hear people and where they are.”
“他非常擅长倾听，”众议院共和党政策委员会(House Republican Policy Committee)主席、俄克拉何马州众议员詹姆斯·兰克福德(James Lankford)说。“他时常在努力思考，这个人、这个团体是那样想的吗？这群人有多少？我认为，他有一种非常独特的能力，可以听进别人讲话，并且找出他们的立场。”