SHANGHAI — While much of the city’s Jewish Quarter has disappeared in the years since the end of World War II, the Ohel Moshe Synagogue is a constant reminder of how this Chinese city saved tens of thousands of Jews fleeing the Holocaust.
上海——二战后，历经多年沧桑，这座城市犹太区的许多建筑都消失了，而摩西会堂（Ohel Moshe Synagogue）依旧屹立，提醒着人们这座中国城市是如何将数万犹太难民从纳粹大屠杀中拯救出来。
Built by Russian Jews in 1927 in the Hongkou district in northern Shanghai, the synagogue was the primary religious destination for the Jewish refugees who flooded into the city.
摩西会堂于1927年由俄罗斯犹太人在上海北部的虹口区修建，是涌入这座城市的犹太难民的首要宗教目的地。
And while its facade has not changed, the building now is the Shanghai Jewish Refugees Museum. It is the first stop for many visitors seeking information about what the Holocaust scholar David Kranzler called the “Miracle of Shanghai.”
虽然这座建筑的门面并没有改变，不过它现在已成为上海犹太难民博物馆。对许多游客来说 如果想要了解犹太大屠杀学者大卫·克兰茨勒（David Kranzler）所说的“上海奇迹”，这里就是他们的第一站。
About 20,000 refugees settled around the synagogue, in an area called the Restricted Sector for Stateless Refugees but more commonly known as the Jewish Ghetto. The 2.68 square kilometers, or about a square mile, which was cordoned off by the Japanese who controlled the city, also was home to 100,000 Shanghaiese, who were welcoming to their new neighbors, according to Jian Chen, the museum’s director.
当时大约有2万名难民居住在犹太教堂附近，这里被称作“无国籍难民隔离区”，但更为人所知的名字是“犹太区”。这片2.68平方公里的土地被占领这座城市的日本人封锁，在这里同时还住着10万上海人。据博物馆馆长陈俭介绍，上海人友好地接纳了他们的新邻居。
“After the end of the Pacific War in 1945, the European Jewish refugees slowly left Shanghai,” Mr. Chen said. “However, they always looked upon Shanghai as their second home, calling the city their ‘Noah’s Ark’.”
“1945年太平洋战争结束后，欧洲犹太难民慢慢离开了上海，”陈先生说：“但是，他们一直把上海视作他们的第二故乡，将这座城市称为‘诺亚方舟’。”
The museum’s second and third exhibition halls display the stories of 20 Shanghai Jews in words and pictures.
博物馆的二号和三号展厅图文并茂地展示了20位上海犹太人的故事。
Sometimes visitors tell those stories themselves, according to Dvir Bar-Gal, 47, a journalist who was born in Israel and has been conducting walking tours of significant Jewish landmarks in Shanghai since 2002.
迪福·巴高尔（Dvir Bar-Gal）现年47岁，是个记者，出生于以色列。自2002年以来，他就开始带领游客在上海的各大犹太地标观光。据他说，在这里，有时游客也会讲起他们的故事来。
“Today we had lady that lived for 10 years in the ghetto,” Mr. Bar-Gal said. “Three days ago, a student in Shanghai came on the tour; his grandpa was a barber here and we discovered his photo on a wall.”
“今天来了一位在犹太区生活了10年的女士，”巴高尔先生说：“三天前，一个上海的学生来参观，他的爷爷曾是这里的一位理发师，我们还在一面墙上找到了他的照片。”
A favorite story involves Hans Cohn, who was 13 when he and his family arrived in Shanghai. He had his bar mitzvah at Ohel Moshe and eventually became a cantor in the San Francisco area. But by the time he returned to Shanghai, throat cancer had robbed him of his singing voice so he told his story in the museum’s main hall with the help of an automated voice box.
人们最喜欢的故事是关于汉斯·科恩（Hans Cohn）的。他13岁时和家人来到上海，在摩西会堂接受了成年礼，后来在旧金山地区担任唱诗班领唱。他回到上海时，喉癌已经夺去了他的歌喉，所以在博物馆大厅里，他靠电子喉的帮助讲述了他的故事。
The area surrounding the museum is called the Tilanqiao Historic District, which contains the only well-preserved living quarters used by the refugees. At a glance, these may look like typical, older Shanghai streets, but it takes only a little imagination to picture what life was like with as many as 30 sharing a room.
博物馆周围地区被称为“提篮桥历史区”，这里有唯一保存完好的难民曾经住过的宿舍。一眼看上去可能很像典型的老上海街头，但只要稍加想象，你就能在眼前描绘出多达30个人共住一间屋的情景。
One notable spot in the district is the intersection of Chushan Road, now called Zhoushan Road, and Huoshan Road, one block south of the museum, an area was once known as “Little Vienna” for its European-style cafes, shops and nightclubs.
该地区一个值得注意的地方是博物馆以南一个街区的舟山路和霍山路交叉路口，这里曾因其欧式咖啡馆、商店和夜总会而被称为“小维也纳”。