UNITED NATIONS —— THE hostilities in Gaza between Israel and Hamas persist and the diplomatic war at the United Nations continues, also without resolution. While there is no shortage of opinions on the way forward, the most obvious solution is strikingly absent — the need to disarm and isolate Hamas, the radical Palestinian Islamist group.
联合国——以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)在加沙持续交火，联合国的外交战同样无止无休，找不到解决的办法。虽然前方道路上从不缺乏各种主张，但引人注意的是，一个显而易见的解决方案没人提起，那就是：将巴勒斯坦伊斯兰极端组织哈马斯(Hamas)解除武装，并使其陷入孤立。
Since Israel disengaged from Gaza in 2005, Hamas has dragged us into three rounds of major assaults, and more than 14,800 rockets have been fired into Israel by the group or its proxies. The discovery of dozens of tunnels packed with explosives, tranquilizers and handcuffs that end at the doorsteps of Israeli communities should be enough to convince anyone that Hamas has no interest in bringing quiet to Gaza or residing alongside Israel in peace.
自从以色列2005年撤离加沙以来，哈马斯已经三次将我们拖入大规模冲突中，该组织及其代理人已经向以色列发射了超过1.48万枚火箭弹。我们发现了几十条通向以色列居民区门口的地道，而且里面塞满了爆炸物、镇静剂和手铐，这应该足以使任何人相信，哈马斯没有兴趣为加沙带去安宁，也没有兴趣与以色列和平共处。
It says a great deal that Hamas’s former Arab backers, which historically have included Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia, long ago abandoned the terrorist group. Only a few nations still stand by Hamas. Among the most prominent is the tiny Persian Gulf emirate Qatar.
埃及、叙利亚和沙特阿拉伯等曾经长期支持哈马斯的阿拉伯国家，很久以前就远离了这个恐怖组织，这在很大程度上就说明了问题。目前只有少数国家仍然支持哈马斯，其中最引人注目的，就是波斯湾旁小小的酋长国卡塔尔。
In recent years, the sheikhs of Doha, Qatar’s capital, have funneled hundreds of millions of dollars to Gaza. Every one of Hamas’s tunnels and rockets might as well have had a sign that read “Made possible through a kind donation from the emir of Qatar.”
最近几年，卡塔尔首都多哈的酋长们为加沙提供了上亿美元的资金。哈马斯的每一条隧道、每一枚火箭弹都可以贴上这样的标签：“来自卡塔尔埃米尔的友好馈赠”。
Sitting atop 25 billion barrels of crude oil reserves and enormous natural gas reserves, Qatar has the highest gross domestic product per capita of any country in the world. The emirate is known for international shopping sprees that have included the funding of six American university campuses in Doha, the purchase of the iconic Harrods department store in London, and ownership of the Paris Saint-Germain soccer club.
坐拥250亿桶原油和庞大天然气储备的卡塔尔，拥有全世界最高的人均GDP。这个酋长国以在世界各地出手阔绰而闻名，包括出资为六所美国大学在多哈设立分校，收购伦敦著名的哈罗德(Harrods)百货商场，还买下了巴黎圣日耳曼(Paris Saint-Germain)足球俱乐部。
For many years, the gas-rich gulf peninsula tried to avoid attracting attention lest it found itself in the same situation as oil-rich Kuwait, which was invaded by Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi forces in 1990. About 10 years ago, however, Qatar changed tactics. To ensure the country’s survival, the ruling House of Thani has spent extravagantly on increasing Qatar’s presence and prestige on the global stage.
多年来，这个油气资源丰富的海湾半岛国家一直设法躲避外界的关注，以免与石油国家科威特陷入同样的境遇。后者曾在1990年，遭到萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)领导的伊拉克军队的入侵。然而，大约在10年前，卡塔尔改变了策略。为了确保国家基业长存，执政的萨尼家族投入巨资，旨在提升卡塔尔在国际舞台上的影响力和声望。
Today, the petite petroleum kingdom is determined to buy its way to regional hegemony, and like other actors in the Middle East, it has used proxies to leverage influence and destabilize rivals. Qatar’s proxies of choice have been radical regimes and extremist groups.
如今，这个石油丰富的蕞尔小国决心通过花钱来实现地区霸权，就像中东的其他势力一样。它使用代理人来发挥影响力，并破坏对手国家的稳定。而卡塔尔青睐的代理人，全部都是激进政权和极端组织。
In pursuit of this strategy, the gulf state is willing to dally with any partner, no matter how abhorrent. Qatar has provided financial aid and light weapons to Qaeda-affiliated groups in Syria, and a base for leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood and the Taliban.
为了推行这种策略，这个海湾国家愿意与任何人为伍，无论这个伙伴是多么不堪。卡塔尔在叙利亚向附属于基地组织的团体提供了经济支持和轻型武器，还为穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)和塔利班(Taliban)的领导人提供了据点。
The emirate has also used the Arabic service of Al Jazeera news network to spread radical messages that have inflamed sectarian divides. In the early days of the Arab Spring, Al Jazeera’s coverage of popular uprisings earned the network millions of new followers and solidified its status as a mainstream global news network. Qatar capitalized on this popularity by advancing its own agenda — namely, using the Arabic network to promote the views of extremists who were undermining the region’s more pragmatic elements. In particular, Qatar’s open support for the Muslim Brotherhood angered its gulf state neighbors. In March, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain recalled their ambassadors from Doha in protest.
这个酋长国还利用阿拉伯语的半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)传播激进的信息、煽动教派分歧。在阿拉伯之春初期，半岛电视台对民众反政府运动的报道，为这个机构吸引了数百万新受众，巩固了其作为全球主流新闻台的地位。卡塔尔利用半岛电视台的人气，推进了自己的议程，通过这个阿拉伯语电视台宣传极端分子的观点，而后者正在削弱该地区内较为务实的派系。卡塔尔公开支持穆兄会的做法尤其激怒了海湾邻国。今年3月，沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国和巴林纷纷召回了驻多哈的大使，以示抗议。
This hasn’t stopped the Persian Gulf monarchy from serving as a Club Med for terrorists. It harbors leading Islamist radicals like the spiritual leader of the global Muslim Brotherhood, Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who issued a religious fatwa endorsing suicide attacks, and the Doha-based history professor Abdul Rahman Omeir al-Naimi, whom the United States Department of Treasury has named as a “terrorist financier” for Al Qaeda. Qatar also funds a life of luxury for Khaled Meshal, the fugitive leader of Hamas.
这没有阻止这个海湾君主国充当恐怖分子的“地中海俱乐部”。该国是诸多主要的伊斯兰激进分子的避难所，比如势力遍布全球的穆兄会的精神领袖谢赫·优素福·格尔达维(Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi)和居住在多哈的历史教授阿卜杜勒·拉赫曼·奥马尔·纳伊米(Abdul Rahman Omeir al-Naimi)，前者发布宗教法令，支持自杀式袭击，后者被美国财政部(Department of Treasury)称为基地组织的“恐怖分子金融家”。卡塔尔还为哈马斯流亡领袖哈立德·迈沙阿勒(Khaled Meshal)的奢侈生活买着单。
Mr. Meshal’s uncompromising stance — he has vowed never to recognize Israel — has long been an obstacle to reaching a peace deal. But behind Hamas, Qatar is pulling the strings. According to a report last week in the pan-Arab daily newspaper Al Hayat, Qatar even threatened to expel Mr. Meshal if Hamas accepted Egyptian proposals for a long-term cease-fire in Gaza. All because Doha wants a starring role in any cease-fire agreement between Hamas and Israel.
迈沙阿勒曾发誓绝不承认以色列，而正是这种不妥协的态度长期以来阻碍双方达成和平协议。但在哈马斯背后，是卡塔尔在进行操纵。根据泛阿拉伯日报《生活报》(Al Hayat)上周的报道，卡塔尔甚至威胁称，如果哈马斯接受埃及的提议，在加沙地带达成长期停火协议，他们将驱逐迈沙阿勒。这全都是因为多哈希望在推动哈马斯与以色列达成停火协议方面发挥主要作用。