The prices have been record breaking, and startling.
价格一直在破记录，令人惊叹。
More than $70 million for Rothko’s “White Center” in 2007, a high-water mark for that artist.
2007年，罗斯科(Rothko)的《白色中心》（White Center）成交价超7000万美元（约合4.3亿元人民币），成为该艺术家拍卖价最高点。
More than $20 million later that year for a Damien Hirst pill cabinet, then a record for a living artist.
那一年晚些时候，达米安·赫斯特(Damien Hirst)“药柜”系列中的一件创出2000多万美元的价格，在当时是在世艺术家拍卖纪录。
And $250 million for Cézanne’s “Card Players” in 2011, the highest known price ever paid for a painting.
2011年，塞尚(Cézanne)的作品《玩牌者》(Card Players)的成交价达到了2.5亿美元，是单幅画作迄今所知的最高成交价。
Given the secrecy of the art market, few knew at the time who had laid out such unprecedented sums.
考虑到艺术市场的保密性，当时没有几个人知道这个空前的高价是谁出的。
But it has become increasingly clear that those masterpieces and many more have been purchased by Qatar, a tiny Persian Gulf country with enormous wealth and cultural ambitions to match: it is buying art at a level never seen before.
不过，有一点已经越来越清楚了，这些名作以及其他很多作品都是卡塔尔买走的，这个波斯湾小国拥有巨大的财富和与财富不相上下的文化野心：它正在以前所未见的大手笔购买艺术品。
“They’re the most important buyers of art in the market today,” said Patricia G. Hambrecht, the chief business development officer for Phillips auction house. “The amount of money being spent is mind-boggling.”
菲利普斯拍卖行(Phillips)首席业务发展官帕特里夏·G·汉布雷克特(Patricia G. Hambrecht)说，“他们是今日市场上最重要的艺术品买家。他们花出去的金额高得令人难以置信。”
The purchasing is directed through intermediaries by Sheika al Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, chairwoman of the Qatar Museums Authority and a sister to Qatar’s new emir. At age 30 she has become one of the most influential players in the art world.
哈马德·本·哈里发·阿勒萨尼(Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani)之女谢哈阿勒玛雅莎(Sheika al Mayassa)作为中间人一手主导了艺术品的采购，她是卡塔尔博物馆管理局(Qatar Museums Authority)局长、也是卡塔尔新任埃米尔的妹妹。现年30岁的玛雅莎已经成为艺术界最有影响力的角色。
No one knows exactly how much Sheika al Mayassa has spent on behalf of her family or the museum authority since she was named chairwoman by her father, the former emir, in 2006. But experts estimate the acquisition budget reaches $1 billion a year and say the Qataris have used it to secure a host of undisputed modern and contemporary masterpieces by Francis Bacon, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and Jeff Koons.
没有人确切知道，自被她的父亲、卡塔尔前任埃米尔于2006年任命为博物馆管理局局长以来，谢哈阿勒玛雅莎已代表她的家族——或管理局——花出了多少钱。不过，专家们估计，收购预算达到了每年10亿美元，他们还说，卡塔尔人已经用这笔钱将一系列公认的现当代名作收入囊中，其中包括弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)、罗伊·利希滕斯坦(Roy Lichtenstein)、安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)和杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)的作品。
Where all this art will eventually end up remains something of a mystery. But it seems clear that, just as Qatar has used its oil riches to boost its influence in the Middle East with ventures like arming Syrian rebels, its wealth is also being deployed to help the country become a force in the world of culture.
所有这些艺术品最终花落哪家博物馆依然成谜。不过，有一件事似乎是明了的，卡塔尔正在用它的石油财富来帮助国家提升自己在世界文化中的影响力，和它通过向叙利亚反政府组织提供武器以提升在中东的影响力如出一辙。
This effort to create a first-class contemporary art collection, essentially from scratch, has buoyed the international art market, experts say, and contributed to some of the escalation in prices.
专家说，这种基本上从零开始打造一流当代艺术收藏国的努力，令国际艺术市场水涨船高，也对艺术品的价格飙升起到了一定作用。
Until Qatar’s 2007 purchase, for example, the most expensive Rothko ever sold at auction (“Homage to Matisse”) had drawn $22 million in 2005, less than one-third of the price Qatar paid. In 2011 the $250 million spent for “Card Players” was four times the highest public price ever paid for a work by that artist.
例如，在卡达尔于2007年进行采购之前，罗斯科作品在拍场上的最高价是2005年拍出的《向马蒂斯致敬》(Homage to Matisse)创下的，价格为2200万美元，还不到卡塔尔出价的三分之一。2011年，卡塔尔为《玩牌者》掷出了2.5亿美元，是该艺术家作品已公开的最高成交价的四倍。
“When they finish their buying program and withdraw from the market,” said David Nash, a New York dealer who spent 35 years as a top executive with Sotheby’s, “they will leave a big hole which I don’t see anyone else ready to fill at their level.”
纽约交易商戴维·纳什(David Nash)说，“等他们完成收购计划然后退出市场，他们会留下一个大洞，我不知道还有谁有这个本事，用同样的大手笔来填补这个大洞。”纳什曾在苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby’s)任高管长达35年。
In recent years the Qatar Museums Authority has created three high-profile museums in the capital, Doha, by the architects Jean Nouvel, I. M. Pei and Jean-François Bodin. But each of these projects — a new home for the National Museum of Qatar now under construction; the Museum of Islamic Art; and Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art — is focused on regional art and artists. So experts expect that a good portion of the Western collection being amassed will become part of a new contemporary art institution in the country, though officials have yet to announce that.
近些年，卡塔尔博物馆管理局已经在首都多哈建造了三个备受瞩目的博物馆，包括正在施工的卡塔尔国家博物馆(National Museum of Qatar)新馆；伊斯兰艺术博物馆(Museum of Islamic Art)；以及阿拉伯现代艺术博物馆(Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art)，它们的设计师分别是让·努维尔(Jean Nouvel)、贝聿铭(I. M. Pei)和让-佛朗索瓦·博丹(Jean-François Bodin)。不过，所有这些博物馆都是专注于地区艺术和艺术家的。因此，专家们推测卡塔尔建立的这个西方艺术收藏有一大部分将被归入一个新成立的当代艺术机构，不过官方尚未正式宣布这个消息。
The annual acquisition budgets of major museums typically amount to just a small fraction of what Qatar is spending. The Museum of Modern Art, for example, spent $32 million to acquire art for the fiscal year that ended in June 2012; the Metropolitan Museum of Art, $39 million.
大牌博物馆每年用于引进艺术品的预算，跟卡塔尔的投入比起来通常只是个零头。比如，在于2012年6月结束的财年中，现代艺术博物馆(Museum of Modern Art)花费3200万美元购进艺术品；而大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)这方面的开支为3900万美元。
While other gulf states like Abu Dhabi and Dubai are also trying to become cultural capitals, those two members of the United Arab Emirates have teamed up with existing institutions — namely the Louvre and the Guggenheim — to establish themselves. Qatar, meanwhile, is going it alone.
尽管阿布扎比和迪拜等其他海湾国也在努力打造文化之都，但这两个阿拉伯联合酋长国成员国是通过和其他已有机构进行合作——主要是卢浮宫(Louvre)和古根海姆博物馆(Guggenheim)——来树立自身地位。卡塔尔则是独立作战。
“They see themselves as an international center for many cultures,” said Allen L. Keiswetter, a scholar at the Middle East Institute in Washington. “It establishes them as another reason to be a destination for travel, for business. If you want to attract people, you need to have a reason to go there.”
“他们将自己看成多元文化的国际中心，”位于华盛顿的中东研究所(Middle East Institute)学者艾伦·L·凯斯威特尔(Allen L. Keiswetter)说。“进一步确立了它作为旅游和经商目的地的地位。如果你想吸引人，你需要有让人们去那里的理由。”
Sheika al Mayassa declined to be interviewed for this article, but she has made limited remarks about the role art will play in Qatar’s future.
谢哈阿勒玛雅莎拒绝就这篇文章接受采访，但是对于艺术在卡塔尔未来所要发挥的作用，阿勒玛雅莎曾发表过简短评论。
“We are revising ourselves through our cultural institutions and cultural development,” she said in a 2010 TED Talk. “Art becomes a very important part of our national identity.”
“我们在通过我们的文化机构和文化开发来调整自身定位，”在2010年的一次TED演讲中，阿勒玛雅莎说道。“艺术已成为我们的国家身份中很重要的一部分。”
In an interview that year with The New York Times, the sheika suggested that establishing art institutions might challenge Western preconceptions about Muslim societies.
同年，在接受《纽约时报》采访时，阿勒玛雅莎表示，建立艺术机构或将改变西方对穆斯林社会的偏见。
“My father often says, in order to have peace, we need to first respect each other’s cultures,” she said. “And people in the West don’t understand the Middle East. They come with Bin Laden in their heads.”
“我父亲总是说，为了和平，我们需要首先尊重彼此的文化，”阿勒玛雅莎说。“而西方人不理解中东。他们脑子里总是有本·拉登(Bin Laden)的形象。”
Sheika al Mayassa appears to combine Western and Muslim influences. Sometimes she dresses like a stylish business executive; sometimes she wears a traditional black abaya, which covers everything but her round face. She speaks French and English as well as Arabic.
阿勒玛雅莎身上似乎兼具中西方的影响。有时，她穿的像一个时尚的企业高管；有时她又会穿着传统的黑色阿拉伯长袍，遮盖着全身，只露出圆圆的脸。她的法语、英语水平不比阿拉伯语逊色。
The sheika does not have a formal background in art history, having studied political science and literature at Duke University in North Carolina. Both she and her husband, Sheik Jassim bin Abdulaziz al-Thani, also did postgraduate work at Columbia University before returning to Qatar.
阿勒玛雅莎曾在北卡罗来纳州的杜克大学(Duke University)学习政治学和文学，并没有艺术史专业背景。她和丈夫谢赫贾西姆·本·阿卜杜勒阿齐兹·阿勒萨尼(Sheik Jassim bin Abdulaziz al-Thani)在回到卡塔尔之前曾在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)读研究生。
“The sheika has a very grand vision and is a very educated woman,” said Leila Heller, a New York dealer with many Middle Eastern artists. “She wants to make Doha a hub for art in the region, where people don’t necessarily have to fly to New York and to Paris and to L.A. to see great shows. Doha has an ambitious plan of opening close to 20 museums of different kinds.”
“阿勒玛雅莎有着远大抱负，是位受过良好教育的女性，”代理了很多中东艺术家的纽约交易商利拉·赫勒(Leila Heller)说。“她想把多哈变成该地区的艺术中心，这样人们就不需要飞往纽约、巴黎和洛杉矶去看优秀展览。多哈有一项宏伟计划，准备开将近20座不同类型的博物馆。”
As to the guiding principle behind the buying, art experts say the sheika is simply trying to amass the best of the best, whatever the price.
至于引进艺术品背后的指导原则，艺术专家称阿勒玛雅莎只是在努力收集最优秀作品中的佼佼者，不考虑价格。
American art institutions could be expected to be frustrated to see so many important pieces leaving the United States. But some museum executives say that’s just how it goes.
而看到这么多重要艺术品离开美国，美国艺术机构可能会很沮丧。但一些博物馆高管表示，对此他们也无可奈何。
“Sure, there are lots of works of art that we have absolutely wanted,” said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art. “But if Rothko and de Kooning and Kline, among others, end up circulating in Moscow, Qatar and Shanghai, that’s not so bad — it’s a projection of American culture and importance that is meaningful.”
“没错，有很多艺术品是我们十分希望得到的，”现代艺术博物馆馆长格伦·D·劳里(Glenn D. Lowry)说，“但如果罗斯科、德库宁、克莱恩及其他艺术家的作品最终能在莫斯科、卡塔尔和上海巡展，那也不错——这是美国文化和重要性的一种展示，很有意义。”