New York Times journalists recount their work on the Cuban revolutionary’s obituary, first drafted in 1959.
《纽约时报》记者讲述了他们对这位古巴革命者讣告的编撰工作，它最初起草于1959年。
Death Plan
死亡计划书
By Randal C. Archibold
作者：兰迪·阿奇博德(Randal C. Archibold)
Every Mexico correspondent in recent years, myself included, inherited and worked on the Fidel Castro “Death Plan.” We all thought for sure it would happen on our watch — only to see Castro outlive our tenures, just as he outlasted presidents.
近些年来，每个驻墨西哥记者，包括我自己在内，都接手并修改过菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)的“死亡计划书”。我们都以为，这件事肯定会发生在我们的任期之内——结果却眼睁睁看着卡斯特罗坚持到超出我们的任期，就像他超过各位总统的任期一样。
Azam Ahmed, the Mexico bureau chief, is now that sweepstakes “winner,” though Damien Cave, by amazing luck, is the one who was actually there when it happened — on vacation.
墨西哥分社社长阿扎姆·艾哈迈德(Azam Ahmed)现在成为独占鳌头的“赢家”，虽然达米恩·凯夫(Damien Cave)才是事情发生时真正在古巴的人——他运气奇佳，当时正在那里度假。
Randy Archibold, a onetime Mexico correspondent, is The Times’s deputy sports editor.
（兰迪·阿奇博德曾经是驻墨西哥记者，现在是《纽约时报》的体育版副主编。）
Momentous Vacation
重大假期
By Damien Cave
作者：达米恩·凯夫
I was just finishing up a momentous vacation — a return to Cuba with my wife, who is Cuban-American, my two kids, and my father-in-law, who was visiting Cuba for the first time since leaving as a child 56 years earlier.
我的一个重要假期刚刚结束了。这次度假，我和妻子、两个孩子，以及岳父回了一趟古巴。我妻子是古巴裔美国人，岳父在56年前离开古巴时还是个孩子，这是他第一次重返那里。
We were supposed to just get up and fly home. But then I heard a jumble of noises: a loud phone in our hotel room and a pounding on our hotel door. It was dark still, before sunup, and I was far too dazed to hazard a theory about what was going on.
我们本应起床然后坐飞机回家。但这时，我听到了一阵杂乱的声音：酒店房间里大声响起的电话铃声和门上猛烈的拍响声。外面还是漆黑一片，太阳还没出来，我太茫然了，猜不出发生了什么事情。
So I opened the door, and there stood Raul, my father-in-law, dressed and wide awake. “Fidel’s dead,” he said. His face held decades of emotion with taut intensity. Then he rushed in to turn on the television.
于是我打开门，门外站着我的岳父劳尔(Raul)。他穿戴整齐，毫无睡意的样子。“菲德尔死了，”他说。他的脸上流露出了积压数十载的情感。然后，他快步走进屋里，打开电视。
From there, it was a scramble to figure out what to do, leading eventually to my family leaving and me staying behind. It was all a stunning turn of events. I’d been coming to Cuba for nearly 20 years, but what I kept thinking of was an exchange I’d had with Susan Chira, then the Foreign Desk editor, back in 2006 when Fidel first fell ill.
在房间里，我们慌乱地计划该怎么办。最终的决定是家人先走，我留下来。简直是形势陡变。近20年里我经常来古巴，但那时我一直在想的却是2006年菲德尔第一次生病时，我和时任国际新闻部编辑苏珊·希拉(Susan Chira)的一次交谈。
I was in Iraq covering the war at the time — a young, clueless correspondent with more passion than wisdom, and I volunteered right then to go to Cuba if Fidel was about to depart the island he’d ruled for decades. Never mind Baghdad. I craved Havana.
当时，在伊拉克报道战事的我还是一个一窍不通的年轻记者，激情多过智慧。我主动提出，如果菲德尔即将离开那座他统治了几十年的岛屿，我愿意去古巴。不管巴格达了。我渴望去哈瓦那。
That request to go turned out to be a premature. I went from Iraq to Miami thinking maybe that would get me here to Havana; then I went to Mexico, from which I made frequent trips to Cuba, living out a dream of covering the island as it edged into an economic transition that many of us had gamed out without really knowing how slow and complicated a process it would be.
事实证明，去古巴的请求提得为时过早。我从伊拉克去了迈阿密，以为或许这样能让我去到哈瓦那。然后，我又去了墨西哥，并经常从墨西哥去古巴，实现了在这个小岛逐步走向经济转型时对其进行报道的梦想。其实我们中的很多人直到离开，都不知道这个过程会有多么缓慢和复杂。
Even now, as I write from a Wi-Fi hot spot in Havana (my card is about to run out of time!) I wonder about where Fidel’s death fits into Cuba’s evolution. Because that’s what it is now: evolution, not revolution. Fidel’s obituary, his death, is the end of a chapter, as one Cuban told me, but far from the end of the entire tale.
即使是此刻，当我借助哈瓦那的一个Wi-Fi热点写东西的时候（我卡里的时间快要用完了！），仍在琢磨菲德尔的死在古巴的蜕变中意味着什么。因为蜕变，而非革命，才是当下的主题。正如一个古巴人告诉我的，菲德尔的讣告和死亡是一个篇章的结束，但绝不是整个故事的结束。
Indeed, like many others on the island today, I have dreams for this place. More joy. More “Cubanidad,” or Cubanness. And someday, I hope to be here again. With my family. With a chance to write. With a chance to observe.
事实上，像现如今生活在岛上的很多人一样，我对这个地方抱有很多希望。希望它拥有更多欢愉，呈现出更多“古巴性”。但愿我有朝一日还能和家人重返这里，有机会写作，有机会观察。
Until then, all I can say is that I’m happy to have contributed to the enormous effort of covering the end of Fidel’s era — even if took a stroke of luck to make it happen. Maybe because of it.
在那之前我只能说，很多人为报道菲德尔时代的终结付出了巨大努力，我为自己能参与其中而感到高兴——即便需要一点点运气才行。或许这恰恰就是原因。
Damien Cave — formerly a correspondent in Mexico City, Miami, Baghdad and Newark — is deputy national editor for digital.
（达米恩·凯夫曾是驻墨西哥城、迈阿密、巴格达和纽瓦克的记者，目前是数字部门的美国新闻副主编。）
Countless Edits, Updates, Revisions
无数次编辑、更新和修正
By Susan Chira
作者：苏珊·希拉(Susan Chira)
For years, as we weathered one scare after another that Fidel Castro had died, I kept the Cuba plan close at hand. We had lists of every Times reporter who either had experience with or family ties to Cuba. Some would go straight to Miami; others would try various routes to Cuba, even though no one had visas. The former executive editor, Bill Keller, and I made a pilgrimage to Havana in 2009 to plead for better access, to no avail, although I did have my copy of “Love in the Time of Cholera” signed by Gabriel García Márquez, a career highlight.
多年来，当我们被菲德尔·卡斯特罗逝世的谣言一次又一次地吓一大跳的时候，我手头一直保留着关于古巴的报道计划。我们有一份名单，所有在古巴待过或者在那里有亲人的时报记者都被登记在册。一些人会直接去迈阿密；另一些人则会尝试沿着种种路线前往古巴，尽管谁都没有签证。我和前主编比尔·凯勒(Bill Keller)曾在2009年前往哈瓦那，请求获得更便利的采访条件，但却徒劳无功。不过，加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel Garcia Marquez)的确给我那本《霍乱时期的爱情》签了名，这堪称我职业生涯的一个亮点。
We even had a plan to sneak someone in via the southeastern city of Santiago de Cuba, where Fidel launched the revolution in 1953 and proclaimed victory in 1959, on the thought it might be easier to slip into the country outside Havana. The Miami bureau had standing instructions to head to Little Havana (and thankfully in Lizette Alvarez we had a Cuban expatriate who had grown up there).
我们甚至计划派人经由东南部城市圣地亚哥-德古巴偷偷潜入，因为觉得溜进这个国家除哈瓦那以外的地方或许更容易一些。菲德尔于1953年在圣地亚哥-德古巴市发起了革命，并于1959年宣布获得胜利。迈阿密分社有关于前往小哈瓦那的一些长期有效的指导意见（而且托莉泽特·阿尔瓦雷斯[Lizette Alvarez]的福，我们有一位在那里长大的古巴移民）。
The magisterial obituary, by Anthony DePalma, whose wife had fled Cuba with her family, was copy edited and then revised countless times over more than a decade.
这篇权威性的讣告由安瑟尼‧德帕尔马(Anthony DePalma)撰写，他的妻子及家人是从古巴逃离的。在过去十几年里，讣告被编辑和修改了无数次。
There had been wide predictions of unrest when Fidel died, but that prospect faded after the successful handoff to his brother Raúl. I remember several scares when many of us flocked to the newsroom late at night or on weekends, rereading the obituary, laying out pages, and drawing up coverage plans, only to stand down.
人们曾对菲德尔去世时的动荡局面有过种种预测，但在他成功传位给弟弟劳尔(Raúl)后，这些猜想渐渐消失了。我还记得有好几次，我们在深夜或周末慌慌张张地聚在编辑室里，重读讣告、规划版面、起草报道方案，最后总是白忙一场。
This time it was true, and the years of preparation paid off.
而这一次，消息是真的，多年的准备终于有了回报。
Susan Chira — senior correspondent and editor, gender issues — was foreign editor from 2004 to 2011.
（苏珊·希拉(Susan Chira)是《纽约时报》资深记者、性别议题编辑，曾在2004至2011年间担任外国新闻编辑。）
Countless Hours
无数个小时
By William McDonald
作者：威廉·麦克唐纳(William McDonald)
Fidel Castro’s obituary cost us more man/woman hours over the years than any piece we’ve ever run.
比起其他任何人的讣告，菲德尔·卡斯特罗这篇让我们花费的时间是最多的。
Every time there was a rumor of death, we’d pull the obit off the shelf, dust it off, send it back to the writer, Tony DePalma, for any necessary updates, maybe add a little more polish here and there and then send it on to be copy-edited and made ready — yet again — for publication.
每当有卡斯特罗逝世的谣言传出，我们都会把讣告从架子上拿下来，掸掉灰尘，回传给作者安瑟尼‧德帕尔马，看看是否需要做出任何更新，可能会在这里或者那里做一点儿润色，然后发给相关人员进行编辑，再一次做好发表的准备。
My biggest worry was that when the day finally came, we’d get word at, say, 10 o’clock on a Saturday night and literally have to stop the presses in the middle of the run for the Sunday paper and somehow, on the fly, shoehorn all those thousands of words into it. (Ugh.)
我当初最担心的是，那一天终于到来的时候，我们得知消息是在周六晚上10点之类的时间，不得不叫停正在印制周日版报纸的印刷机，匆匆忙忙地设法把几千字塞进去。
As it happened, the timing worked out fine: too late for the Saturday paper but right on the money for the full Sunday run, and of course digital readers had it with their Saturday morning coffee.
碰巧，这次的时机堪称完美：对周六的报纸来说是太迟了，但刚好可以赶上周日版的整个制作流程。当然了，数字版读者可以在周六早上边喝咖啡边看讣告。
Bill McDonald is The Times’s obituaries editor.
（比尔·麦克唐纳是时报的讣告编辑。）