LONDON — Only a week ago, the Pakistani Taliban appeared to be on the ropes. Violent rivalries had split the insurgency in two. Peace talks with the government had collapsed. Military jets had pounded militant hideouts in the tribal belt. Then on Sunday, the Taliban hit back.
伦敦——仅仅一周之前，巴基斯坦塔利班(Taliban)似乎还处在山穷水尽的境地，激烈的内部矛盾使这个叛乱团体一分为二，与政府之间的和谈已经瓦解，军方派飞机对部落带的武装人员藏身处发动了猛烈攻击。然而周日，塔利班却做出了反击。
A squad of militant commandos, disguised as government security forces, stormed Karachi’s international airport after dark. They carried food, water and ammunition, apparently in preparation for a long siege, and big ambitions: perhaps to hijack a commercial airliner, government officials said Monday, or to blow up an oil depot, or to destroy airplanes on the tarmac.
一群武装突击队员伪装成政府保安人员，在天黑后对卡拉奇的国际机场发动猛攻。他们携带着食物、水和弹药，似乎为长时间被警方围困做好了准备。政府官员周一表示，这些袭击者野心很大，或许准备劫持一架民航科技、炸毁一座油库，或者摧毁跑道上的飞机。
The 10 attackers were dead five hours later, shot by soldiers or blown up by their own suicide vests. Yet the audacious nature of the assault shook Pakistan to its core, offering a violent reminder that, for all its divisions, the Taliban remains an astonishingly resilient force.
这10名袭击者5小时后已经全部身亡，有人是被士兵击毙，有人则是引爆自杀背心而死。然而，这次袭击的放肆还是让巴基斯坦颇为震撼。它用暴力提醒人们，尽管塔利班内部存在分歧，但它仍有惊人的韧性。
It has kept a reach far beyond its tribal redoubt along the Afghan border, with an ability to penetrate the country’s busiest airport in the largest city. And the discovery that Uzbek jihadis were among the attackers underscores how, even in splinters, the Taliban can draw on an international militant network to conduct sophisticated attacks on high-profile targets — which means trouble not just for Pakistan’s government and military, but for American interests in Afghanistan.
塔利班可以走出其位于阿富汗边境部落地带的巢穴，触及到很远的地方，而且还能渗透到巴基斯坦最大城市里最繁忙的机场。而且人们还发现，袭击者中还包括来自乌兹别克斯坦的圣战分子，虽然已被炸成碎片。这突显出塔利班有能力召集一系列国际武装分子，来对备受关注的目标展开复杂的袭击——这不仅让巴基斯坦政府和军方头疼，而且还会损害美国在阿富汗的利益。
The determined attack seems to bear out earlier warnings by counterterrorism experts that the Taliban split two weeks ago was unlikely to erode the group’s capacity for mayhem.
这场坚定的袭击似乎证实了反恐专家较早前的警告。他们认为，塔利班两周前的分裂似乎不太可能削弱它实施破坏的能力。
“It’s become a hydra-headed monster,” said Najmuddin Shaikh, a retired head of Pakistan’s foreign service. “They had limited success in Karachi, but maybe that was just our good luck.”
“它变成了一个多头怪，”已经退休的巴基斯坦外交部门负责人纳杰姆丁·谢赫(Najmuddin Shaikh)说。“他们并没有在卡拉奇取得很大成功，或许这只是因为我们运气好。”
Key to the Taliban’s strength is the web of alliances it has cultivated with fellow militant groups in North Waziristan, the tribal district along the Afghan border that since 2001 has evolved into a vibrant global hub of jihadi money, ideology and fighters — Punjabis, Chechens, Arabs, Central Asians, Afghan Taliban and a smattering of Westerners.
塔利班力量的关键在于它与北瓦济里斯坦(North Waziristan)的一些武装组织所培育起的联盟关系。北瓦济里斯是濒临阿富汗边境的部落地带，自2001年来，这里逐渐变成一个活跃的全球中心，集中了圣战分子的资金、意识形态和武装分子——旁遮普人、车臣人、阿拉伯人、中亚人、阿富汗塔利班，以及少数西方人。
The Taliban’s major ally is the Haqqani network, a formidable force in the Afghan insurgency that held the American soldier Bowe Bergdahl hostage for five years until his release on May 31. But they have other allies too — fighters whose militancy was born elsewhere, but who have joined in the Taliban fight.
塔利班的主要盟友是哈卡尼网络组织(Haqqani network)，这是阿富汗叛乱组织中的一股可怕力量，曾将美国士兵鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)拘禁了5年，直到5月31日才将他释放。但是他们还有其他盟友——有些武装人员的战斗热情是在别处产生的，但是也加入了塔利班的战斗。
Chief among them are the Uzbeks, hard-bitten fighters who followed Osama bin Laden into Pakistan after September 2001, and who have since become an important element of the Taliban insurgency, offering Pakistan fighters what experts call a deep bench of militant training and expertise.
其中最主要的是来自乌兹别克斯坦的作战人员。这些人顽强不屈，在2001年9月以后，跟随奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)进入巴基斯坦。从那以后，他们就成了塔利班反叛势力的一个重要组成部分，用反恐专家的话说，他们为巴基斯坦武装人员提供了极强的作战训练和专业技能。
Uzbeks played a central role in two major jailbreaks and an attack on Peshawar’s airport over the past two years. And when Pakistani security forces displayed the bodies of the men who attacked Karachi airport on Sunday — a line of 10 shrouds, one of them topped with a severed head — they said that several of them were Uzbeks.
过去两年里，来自乌兹别克斯坦的作战人员在两次重大越狱事件和一起针对白沙瓦机场的袭击中扮演了重要角色。巴基斯坦安全部队周日展示了袭击卡拉奇机场的武装分子的尸体，10具盖着裹尸布的尸体，其中一具上面放着割掉的头颅。安全部队称，其中有几人是乌兹别克人。
Speaking by telephone from Waziristan, a Pakistani Taliban commander said the foreign jihadis had participated in the operation in revenge for recent military airstrikes in Waziristan month that targeted the Uzbeks. “The I.M.U. has always been a great source of strength for us,” the commander said, referring to the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, the main Uzbek group. “They were very furious at the strikes, which killed a dozen of their people.”
一名在瓦济里斯坦的巴基斯坦塔利班指挥官在电话中说，外国圣战分子之所以参与此次行动，是为了报复军方近期在瓦济里斯坦展开的以乌兹别克人为攻击目标的空袭。“IMU一直是我们重要的力量来源，”这名指挥官说。“有十多名乌兹别克人在袭击中丧生，他们对这些袭击深感愤怒。”IMU指的是乌兹别克斯坦伊斯兰运动(Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan)，乌兹别克斯坦主要的圣战团体。
For Pakistan’s leaders, who for months have been wavering between talking and fighting, the Taliban’s robustness is likely to inform their next step. The prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, is due to meet with the army leadership in the next two days, Pakistani officials said, to discuss a possible military response to the Karachi attack.
巴基斯坦领导人数月来一直在谈判与战斗之间摇摆不定，塔利班的粗暴行动可能预示着他们下一步会采取怎样的举措。巴基斯坦官员表示，该国总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)将于未来两天与军方领导层会面，讨论采取军事行动回应卡拉奇袭击事件的可能性。
“This marks an escalation of the war,” said Adil Najam, a Pakistani analyst who is dean of the Pardee School of Global Studies at Boston University. “And it shows that this is going to be a long war.”
“这标志着战斗会升级，”巴基斯坦分析人士、波士顿大学(Bosten University)帕迪国际关系学院(Pardee School of Global Studies)院长阿迪勒·纳吉姆(Adil Najam)说。“这说明这将是一场长期战争。”
Fresh details of Sunday’s assault underlined how well prepared the Taliban were.
有关周日袭击行动的最新细节突显出，塔利班准备得非常充分。
The assault started at around 11 p.m. when two teams of five militants, disguised as police and army paramilitaries, entered the airport complex over a perimeter wall and through an entrance frequently used by top government officials and foreign dignitaries.
袭击行动大约从晚上11点开始，当时两支各由五名武装分子组成的队伍，假扮成警察和军方的准军事人员，越过围墙并经由一个通道进入机场。该通道常常供高级政府官员及外国政要使用。
As counterterrorism commandos scrambled to respond, some arriving in armored personnel carriers, the fighting centered on the airport’s old terminal, known as the Hajj terminal, and a nearby cargo building. The militants fought through the night as terrified passengers sat in airplanes stranded on the tarmac. The cargo building became engulfed in flames.
反恐突击队慌忙做出回应，一些队员乘坐装甲运兵车抵达机场，斗争主要在该机场的旧航站楼——朝觐航站楼(Hajj)和附近的货航大楼展开。武装分子通宵作战，惊恐的乘客坐在被困在跑道上的飞机中，货航大楼被大火吞噬。
When the battle finally ended an hour before dawn on Monday, officials said, the militants had killed at least 19 people, including four employees of Pakistan International Airlines, the state carrier.
官员们表示，交火最终在黎明前一小时结束，武装分子至少杀害了19人，其中包括国家航空公司巴基斯坦国际航空公司(Pakistan International Airlines)的四名员工。
A senior army officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the public, said that seven attackers were killed in the fighting, and another three died when they blew up their suicide vests.
一名高级军官表示，七名袭击者在交战过程中死亡，另有三人因引爆自杀式炸弹背心而身亡。由于没有公开相关事宜的权限，这名军官要求匿名。
By midafternoon the airport had been reopened for passenger traffic. But with many flights canceled or rescheduled, passengers gathered around airline information counters in an atmosphere that veered from apprehensive to resigned.
截至下午3点左右，机场恢复客运。但由于很多航班被取消或改期，乘客们聚集在航空公司的服务台周围，气氛从惴惴不安变成了听天由命。
Elvina James, 46, who was hoping to fly to Lahore, was philosophical about using the airport so soon. “You have to take some risks in life,” she said.
46岁的埃尔维纳·詹姆斯(Elvina James)希望乘飞机前往拉合尔，对于机场将很快恢复使用一事，她的态度很达观。她说，“生活中必须要冒些风险。”
The Taliban’s boldness in Karachi may help provoke action in Waziristan. In recent weeks, tribal elders from North Waziristan have held meetings with senior government officials in Peshawar — an indication, some say, that they are girding for an impending army operation.
塔利班在卡拉奇残暴的袭击行动，可能会在一定程度上促使瓦济里斯坦采取行动。最近几周，北瓦济里斯坦的部落长老与高级政府官员在白沙瓦举行了会晤。一些人表示，这说明他们正在为即将开展的军队行动做准备。
“The T.T.P. has closed the avenue for talks,” said Mr. Shaikh, the retired diplomat, using the abbreviation for the main Pakistani Taliban faction. “And the army knows that if it can get to the root, the branches will wither.”
“TTP关闭了谈判的渠道，”退休外交官谢赫说。“军方知道如果他们能打掉根源，分支派系就会萎缩。”TTP是巴基斯坦塔利班主要派系的缩写。
But any action against the Taliban, as ever, is fraught with spy skullduggery and politics. There is little indication that, for all its tough talk against the Taliban, Pakistan’s military has abandoned its decades-old policy of indulging some militant groups, like the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba, who have been willing to further the army’s foreign policy aims.
但一如以往，任何针对塔利班的行动都会涉及间谍的诡诈和政治上的考量。尽管巴基斯坦发表了针对塔利班的强硬言论，但几乎没有迹象表明，巴基斯坦军队已经放弃了数十年来的政策——纵容哈卡尼网络和虔诚军(Lashkar-e-Taiba)等武装组织，因为它们愿意推动军队的外交政策目标。