LONDON — The “special relationship” with Britain has been a cornerstone of American policy for generations, but in a tough election campaign, David Cameron, Britain’s Conservative prime minister, has distanced himself from the United States on two critically important issues — military spending and China.
伦敦——数个世代以来，与英国的“特殊关系”一直是美国政策的基石。但是在艰难的竞选活动中，英国保守派首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在两个十分重要的议题上拉开了自己与美国的距离——军费开支和中国问题。
Mr. Cameron emphasized when he took office five years ago that Britain would be a loyal but not slavish ally of the United States, a popular view here after what is regarded as the fiasco of the Iraq war and the miasma of the decade-long Afghan war. Even within the Conservative Party, there is some skepticism about American leadership, a feeling long shared on the British left.
卡梅伦在五年前上台时曾强调，英国将是美国忠实而不盲从的盟友，由于被认为是一场惨败的伊拉克战争，以及长达十年的阿富汗战争所带来的负面影响，这种观点在这里十分流行。即使在保守党内部也存在对美国领导的怀疑；而英国左派则长期以来一直有这种感觉。
Mr. Cameron hopes to retain office in the May 7 election by focusing on fiscal responsibility, a growing economy and improvements in trade. So he wants not only reduced government and military spending, but also better relations with China, with Britain announcing over Washington’s objections that it intends to be a founding member of Beijing’s new development bank for Asia.
卡梅伦希望通过对财政责任、发展经济以及改善贸易等方面的关注，在5月7日的选举中再次当选。所以，他不仅希望能削减政府和军费开支，还希望能改善与中国的关系。英国不顾华盛顿反对，宣布打算成为北京新创建的一间亚洲发展银行的创始成员国之一。
“Sometimes for economic growth you have to do what you have to do,” said Robin Niblett, the director of the London think tank Chatham House, citing Mr. Cameron’s wariness about meeting the Dalai Lama and Britain’s soft tone on the pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong, as well as its intention to cut military spending below the NATO guideline of 2 percent of G.D.P.
“有时候为了经济增长，你必须做你应该做的事，”伦敦智库皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的罗宾·尼布利特(Robin Niblett)说。他提到了卡梅伦对会见达赖喇嘛的担心、英国对香港民主游行的软弱立场，以及——根据北约(NATO)的要求——将军费削减至低于国内生产总值2%的意向。
“It reminds voters that Britain’s relationship with America is essential, but does not always have to be a special relationship in lock step,” Mr. Niblett said.
尼布利特表示，“这提醒选民们，英国与美国的关系非常重要，但不见得是必须随时保持步调一致的那种特殊关系。”
Britain’s announcement on Thursday that it intends to join the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which China is largely funding in hopes of becoming the dominant influence in Asian affairs, has bolstered the fledgling bank’s reputation even before it begins operations, analysts said, and will encourage other American allies, like South Korea and Australia, to become members.
分析人士表示，英国周四宣布打算加入亚洲基础设施投资银行（Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行）的举动，令该行还未开始运营已经积攒起信誉，还将鼓励韩国、澳大利亚等美国的其他盟友成为该组织成员国，中国投入巨资筹建亚投行，希望其在亚洲事务方面发挥支配性的影响力。
Membership by Britain, America’s closest ally and the first would-be member from the Group of 7 leading economies, would be a major step toward China’s goal of making the bank a global financial institution rivaling the World Bank.
英国是美国最亲密盟友，也是七国集团(Group of 7)中第一个将要加入亚投行的国家。中国希望该银行能成为与世界银行(World Bank)竞争的全球性金融机构，英国的加入是它向这个目标迈出的重要一步。
On the military side, senior members of the Obama administration, joined by a number of senior Conservative Party legislators, are pressing Mr. Cameron to spend more on the military, arguing that Russia is on the march and that Britain risks losing further influence if it trims too far.
在军事方面，奥巴马政府的高层官员和英国保守党(Conservative Party)的一些资深议员都在迫使卡梅伦增加军费，他们辩称，俄罗斯正在步步进逼，如果过度削减军费，英国可能会进一步失去影响力。
Britain is one of the few countries in Europe to have a serious military and to spend 2 percent of G.D.P. on defense, a guideline to which Mr. Cameron committed himself at last year’s NATO summit meeting in Wales.
英国是欧洲少数几个勤修武备的国家之一，GDP的2%用于国防——这是卡梅伦去年在北约威尔士峰会上做出的承诺。
But military experts assert that Britain is already falling below that percentage, and budget plans for the next five years, should the party regain office, will bring even sharper cuts even as NATO faces new threats from a revanchist Russia.
但军事专家说，英国的军备开支已经低于这个比例了。而且今后五年，如果保守党能重掌政权，预算还会被更大幅度地削减，尽管志在收复旧山河的俄罗斯正给北约带来新的威胁。
Britain’s military establishment has come out strongly against further projected cuts on top of those of the last five years, and so, now, have senior American officials, like Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the Army chief of staff.
英国军方权势人物强烈反对在过去五年裁减预算基础上进行更多的削减，现在像陆军参谋长雷蒙德·奥迪耶诺上将(Gen. Raymond T. Odierno)这样的美国高级官员也开始明确表示反对。
President Obama brought up American concerns that Britain is losing crucial military capabilities, making it a less effective ally, when he met privately with Mr. Cameron in January, in what was otherwise described as a warm meeting between two pragmatic politicians.
1月私下会见卡梅伦时，奥巴马对英国正在丧失关键性的军事能力表达了担忧，认为它作为盟军的战斗力在减弱。除了这一点之外，这两位务实的政治人物的晤面可以说一团和气。
But as with the Chinese bank, Washington is also concerned that if Britain breaks its pledge on 2 percent, it will encourage other European countries to spend even less than they are spending now. Washington, which already accounts for about 70 percent of NATO’s military spending, wants the Europeans to shoulder more responsibility.
但是，就像在中国筹备的银行问题上一样，华盛顿还担心，如果英国守不住2%的承诺，其他欧洲国家也会比现在支出更少。美国已经承担着北约70%的军费开支，它希望欧洲承担更多责任。
The Royal United Services Institute, a research institution on military and security matters, warned this week in a report that Britain would be spending 1.95 percent of G.D.P. on defense in the next fiscal year — excluding spending on operations — and 1.85 percent in 2016-17. To meet the NATO target, defense would need another 3 billion pounds — about $4.5 billion — and by 2019-20, an additional £5.9 billion.
从事军事和安全事务研究的皇家联合国防研究所(Royal United Services Institute)本周在一份报告中警告，下一个财年，英国的军费开支将仅为GDP的1.95%（不包括用于军事行动的部分），2016到2017年度将只有1.85%。要达到北约的标准，军费应该增加30亿英镑，约45亿美元，到2019至2020年度，则应再增加59亿英镑。
The study’s pessimistic scenario sees a cut of 10 percent in real terms for defense over the next four years; the optimistic one sees an increase in spending of about £4 billion a year, but still only 1.75 percent of G.D.P. by 2019. It warned that the combined strength of the army, navy and air force could fall from 145,000 personnel to 115,000 by 2020.
报告预测了悲观的前景，认为今后四年，英国实际军费开支将缩减10%。另一个乐观的估计是到2019年每年增加开支40亿英镑，但仍仅为GDP的1.75%。报告警告，英国陆海空三军的总兵力到2020年可能从14.5万人下降到11.5万人。
The group also noted that since 2010, military spending has decreased 4.3 percent in real terms, mostly represented in cuts to personnel, but similar savings are harder now and new equipment costs are high.
该机构还说，2010年以来，军费实际缩减了4.3%，主要来自人员的裁减，但类似的省钱办法现在更难做到了，新装备的成本又很高。
Mr. Cameron and his Conservative Party are running an election campaign for May’s vote on their stewardship of the economy and their commitment to a balanced budget and a smaller state. His campaign strategist, Lynton Crosby, is discouraging Tory candidates from talking about much else, to the point that defense is not even mentioned as a possible voter concern.
卡梅伦和他的保守党在为5月的大选造势，他们靠的是对经济的管理，还有关于平衡预算和小政府的承诺。他的竞选战略专家林登·克罗斯比(Lynton Crosby)建议，托利党候选人除这几点之外的话要少讲，以至于国防甚至没有作为选民可能关心的问题被提出来。
On Thursday, John Baron, a Conservative legislator and former army officer, led a backbench debate on military spending, urging the government to keep to the 2 percent target and condemning both his own party and the Labour Party for refusing to commit to the target in the next Parliament.
周四，保守党议员、前陆军军官约翰·巴伦(John Baron)在普通议员席中引导了一场有关军费问题的辩论，要求政府保持2%的目标，并谴责自己所在的政党及工党拒绝在下一届议会中致力于完成这一目标。
“Having lectured other NATO members as to its importance, we ourselves should lead by example,” he said.
他表示，“我们已经告诫其他北约成员国其重要性，我们自己应该以身作则。”
On the Asian bank, the chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, made it clear Thursday that Britain was intent on joining, calling it “an unrivaled opportunity for the U.K. and Asia to invest and grow together.”
至于亚投行，英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)在周四明确表示，英国已经下定决心加入该行，称这“对英国和亚洲来说是一个共同投资和发展的绝佳机会”。
The Chinese have been promoting “the new Silk Road” binding China and Europe together on trade, and Britain, which is seeking to expand its exports, does not want to offend Beijing.
中国一直在宣传能在贸易上把中国和欧洲联系起来的“新丝绸之路”，而且希望扩大出口的英国也不想得罪北京。
The Chinese Finance Ministry warmly welcomed the British announcement, saying on its website on Friday that if all went well, Britain would formally become a “prospective founding member” of the bank by the end of March.
中国财政部对英国的决定表示热烈欢迎，并于周五在其网站上发布消息称，如一切顺利，英国将于3月底正式成为亚投行“意向创始成员国”。
Washington has expressed reservations about the new institution, on the ground that it would not meet environmental standards, procurement requirements and other safeguards adopted by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank for their lending projects.
华盛顿方面表示对该新机构保留意见，理由是该银行不会达到环境标准、采购要求，以及世界银行、国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)及亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)为其贷款项目采取的其他保障举措。
But fundamentally, Washington views the Chinese venture as a deliberate challenge to those postwar institutions, which are led by the United States and, to a lesser extent, Japan.
但是从根本而言，华盛顿认为这个中国机构是对那些战后建立的组织的故意挑衅——这些组织由美国和日本领导，其中日本所起的领导作用相对较小。
Washington is facing a similar challenge to the postwar order in Europe from Russia, which is why the Americans want NATO to bolster its defenses and deterrence.
在欧洲，华盛顿也面临着俄罗斯对战后秩序的类似挑战。这就是美国人希望北约能加强防御和威慑力的原因。
The National Security Council in Washington implicitly criticized Britain’s decision on the bank, suggesting that it had gone against Mr. Obama’s desires.
华盛顿国家安全委员会(National Security Council)含蓄地批评了英国关于这个银行的决定，表示此决定违背了奥巴马的愿望。
“This is the U.K.’s sovereign decision,” a spokesman at the National Security Council said. “We hope and expect that the U.K. will use its voice to push for the adoption of high standards.”
“这是英国的主权决定，”一名发言人在国家安全委员会上说。“我们希望并期待英国利用自己的声音，推动高标准的引入。”
In South Korea, Britain’s announcement is likely to reignite the government’s internal debate about the merits of membership, said Hahm Chaibong, president of the Asian Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul.
首尔峨山政策研究院(Asan Institute for Policy Studies)院长咸在凤(Hahm Chaibong)说，英国的声明很可能令韩国政府内部就加入该行的好处再次展开争论。