The 30 or so guests enjoying spring rolls and white wine were gathered in a small third-floor gallery at the Metropolitan Museum of Art to celebrate Subhash Kapoor, a convivial Manhattan art dealer who had donated 58 miniature drawings of Indian aristocrats, deities and beasts.
30几位宾客聚集在大都会艺术博物馆三楼一家小小画廊里，吃着春卷，喝着白葡萄酒，庆祝爱好交际的曼哈顿艺术商萨巴什·卡普尔(Subhash Kappor)捐献了58幅微型画，内容是印度的王公、神祇与野兽。
On this spring evening in 2009, Mr. Kapoor, 60, owner of Art of the Past on Madison Avenue, stood atop the Indian art world. After his 35 years in business, museums and collectors were paying seven figures for his Hindu, Buddhist and South Asian antiquities. A 900-year-old dancing Shiva went to the National Gallery of Australia, a thousand-year-old bronze Ganesha to the Toledo Museum of Art in Ohio. Now, he was being toasted by the Met for a gift of artworks from his homeland.
那是2009年春天的一个夜晚，卡普尔当时60岁，是麦迪逊大道上“逝去的艺术”(Art of the Past)的主人，正站在印度艺术世界的顶端。在这个行业已经干了35年，经他手卖给博物馆和收藏家们的印度教、佛教与南亚文物价值数百万美元。一尊有900年历史的舞王湿婆像进了澳大利亚国家艺术馆，一尊有千年历史的青铜伽内什像进了俄亥俄州托莱多艺术馆。此时，大都会博物馆正在向他致谢，感谢他赠送的来自家乡的艺术品。
“He had become quite a big fish, and he seemed thrilled,” said Eleanor Abraham, a fellow gallery owner in the crowd that night.
“他成了大人物，看上去非常兴奋，”当晚人群里的一位画廊主人伊莉诺·亚伯拉罕(Eleanor Agraham)说。
What no one in the room knew was that Mr. Kapoor was under investigation on two continents, suspected of running a $100 million art smuggling operation.
但是房间里没有人知道，卡普尔当时在两个大洲都在接受调查，被怀疑操作价值一亿美元的艺术品走私活动。
Two years earlier, Indian officials had tipped American authorities that a company in West Nyack, N.Y., Nimbus Import Export, was about to receive seven crates from overseas labeled “marble garden table sets.” The contents were in fact 3,000 pounds of stolen antiquities, the Indians said, and Nimbus’s owner was the proprietor of Art of the Past.
两年前，印度官方告知美国当局，纽约州西奈阿克一家名叫“灵光进出口”(Nimbus Import Export)的公司即将从海外收到七个标记着“大理石园桌套装”的板条箱。里面装的其实是3000磅被偷来的文物，而“灵光”就是“逝去的艺术”老板的产业。
Today, American and Indian investigators say they have compiled an enormous dossier against Mr. Kapoor: emails and databases seized under search warrants; bank-transfer records and shipping forms; the testimony of former associates, including his office manager, who were arrested and have agreed to cooperate.
如今，美国与印度调查者们说，他们已经搜集到大量证据起诉卡普尔——在有许可证情况下取得的电子邮件与数据；银行转账记录与货运表格，以及前合伙人的证词，其中包括他的业务经理，此人被捕后同意合作。
Much of the material has been the product of an investigation called Operation Hidden Idol. American authorities say they have concluded that the modest and esteemed Mr. Kapoor was, in volume and value, the most ambitious antiquities smuggler in American history. Mr. Kapoor has adamantly denied doing anything illegal.
很多材料都源于一项名为“隐藏的神像行动”(Operation Hidden Idol)的调查。美国官方认为，无论从数量还是价值而言，这位温和可敬的卡普尔先生都堪称美国历史上最野心勃勃的文物走私贩子。卡普尔坚决否认自己有任何违法行为。
Their best evidence, they say, is an almost unimaginable 2,622 items, worth $107.6 million, confiscated mostly from storerooms in Manhattan and Queens, and virtually all of it contraband from India.
美国官方称，最好的证据是从曼哈顿和皇后区的仓库收缴的2662件物品，价值1.076亿美元，简直令人难以想象，基本上都是从印度走私而来。
James T. Hayes Jr., who oversaw the office of Homeland Security Investigations during much of the case, called Mr. Kapoor “one of the most prolific commodities smugglers in the world.”
国土安全部的小詹姆斯·T·海耶斯(James T. Hayes Jr.)在该案大部分时间里负责相关调查办公室的工作，他说卡普尔是“世界上最高产的走私贩之一。”
“We might see an individual with a handful of pieces,” he added. “What we haven’t seen is someone who basically created a black-market Sotheby’s.”
“我们可能见过走私几样物品的人，”他说。“但我们从没见过这样一个相当于一手创立了一个黑市苏富比的人。”
Mr. Kapoor’s case has been a cause célèbre in India and Australia. Many websites devoted to antiquities scandals, like Chasing Aphrodite and Poetry in Stone, have also questioned Kapoor-related acquisitions in museums around the world.
卡普尔的案子在印度和澳大利亚轰动一时。许多关注文物丑闻的网站，比如“追访阿芙罗狄特”（Chasing Aphrodite）以及“石中诗歌”（Poetry in Stone），也在质疑全球各地博物馆涉及卡普尔的文物交易。
Since 2011, when Indian officials had him arrested on charges of theft and smuggling, Mr. Kapoor has been awaiting trial in a jail cell in Chennai, a port city on the Bay of Bengal formerly known as Madras. When that case is resolved, prosecutors with the Manhattan District Attorney’s office hope to extradite him to face charges that include receiving stolen property. In April, they filed court papers asking for formal custody of Mr. Kapoor’s trove of merchandise so that it can eventually be returned to India and other nations.
2011年，印度官方以盗窃和走私的罪名拘捕了卡普尔，自那以后，他一直被囚禁在金奈市一座监狱里等待审判。金奈是坐落在孟加拉湾之畔的一座港口城市，以前被称为马德拉斯。随着案件慢慢清晰，曼哈顿检察官办公室的检察官们希望将他引渡至美国，接受包括收取失窃财物在内的多项指控。四月，他们发送了法律文书，要求正式没收卡普尔的赃物，以便最终归还给印度等国家。
Officials are also urging unlucky Kapoor clients to surrender hundreds of costly treasures that they say were not his to sell. Museums in America and abroad, including institutions in Massachusetts, Ohio, Hawaii, Singapore and Australia, are shedding rare holdings because they came from Art of the Past, which closed in 2012. The next year, investigators seized two statues Mr. Kapoor had boldly put on display inside the Pierre Hotel in New York, trundling them through the lobby in front of aghast executives.
官员们还敦促卡普尔那些不幸的客户们上交数百件价值不菲的珍宝，因为它们并非卡普尔的财产，他无权出售。美国与海外的博物馆，包括马萨诸塞、俄亥俄、夏威夷、新加坡和澳大利亚的研究机构开始清理来自“逝去的艺术”的珍稀藏品，“逝去的艺术”也于2012年关闭。2013年，调查者缴获了两座曾被卡普尔大胆地放在纽约皮埃尔酒店内的雕像，它们被放在行李推车上，当着目瞪口呆的管理者们的面，被推过酒店大厅。
Mr. Kapoor, who started in the trade working alongside his father, rejects the allegations. His lawyer in India, S. Kingston Jerold, said his client dealt only in replicas and never exported or bought actual antiques.
卡普尔最早是和父亲一起从事这个行业的，他否认对自己的指控。他在印度的律师S·金斯顿·杰罗尔德(S. Kingston Jerold)说自己的客户只经营复制品，从未出口或购买过真的文物。
“They’ve cooked up the case, it’s all fixed up,” he said during an interview in his dim, overstuffed office in Chennai. “This case is fabricated for some other political purpose.”
“他们造谣诬陷，一切都是瞎编的，”他在金奈一处昏暗、堆满东西的办公室里接受了采访，“这个案子是为了政治目的被编造出来的。”
It is a hard fall for a man long lauded by the international art market. In 2009, a prospering Mr. Kapoor told Apollo magazine that his gift to the Met — which has not been challenged as illicit — was “my way of giving back to the field.”
对于一个长期被国际艺术市场称颂的人物来说，这堪称惨痛的堕落。2009年，功成名就的卡普尔告诉《阿波罗》(Apollo)杂志，自己送给大都会艺术馆的礼物（目前它们尚未并被认定为非法）是“我回馈艺术界这个领域的方式。”
Six years later, investigators say, Mr. Kapoor will be giving back nearly everything.
六年后，调查人员说，卡普尔几乎得把自己拥有的一切都归还回去。
Thievery in the Temple
神庙中的失窃案
For almost a millennium, priests have climbed the ruined stone steps of the Varadharaja Perumal temple, in what is now the village of Suthamalli in the state of Tamil Nadu, India, and entered a moss-covered chamber where dozens of 11th-century bronze and iron idols awaited prayers.
千年以来，一代代僧侣从瓦拉达拉贾贝鲁马尔神庙(Varadharaja Perumal temple)破损的石阶上走过，如今，这里属于印度泰米尔纳德邦苏萨马利村辖区。一座覆盖着青苔的龛室里，十几尊青铜与黑铁的神像正等待着祈祷者们。
Balakrishnan Gurukkal, the latest in that line of priests, trod those steps on April 14, 2008, to celebrate the Tamil New Year. Though the site had once been a vital place of worship, locals now favored another temple nearby, and Mr. Gurukkal had not been there for months. He reached for the rusty lock on the flimsy metal gate and found it broken.
2008年4月14日，最后一个造访那里的祭司巴拉克里什纳·古鲁卡尔(Balakrishnan Gurukkal) 走过石阶，庆祝泰米尔的新年。尽管这里一度是宗教重地，如今本地人如今却更加喜欢附近的另一个寺院，古鲁卡尔也已经有好几个月没来了。他摸索着肮脏的金属门上锈迹斑斑的锁，发现它被撬开了。
He lit a candle and stepped inside. The idols were gone.
他点燃蜡烛走进去，神像都不见了。
Within an hour, said Chelamma Kumar, who lives beside the weed-strewn temple in a thatch hut overshadowed by a white and lime-green water tower, “there was a big crowd and lots of police with sniffer dogs and all that.”
荒草丛生的寺院旁边有一座白绿相间的水塔，住在塔下小草屋里的钦拉玛·库马尔(Chelamma Kumar)说，事发一小时之内，“一大群人，还有带着警犬的大批警察就赶到了。”
Some 200 miles south of Chennai, the modest temple was just the kind of spot bandits and black marketers had targeted for years — rural, seldom visited and barely secure, but laden with intricate, sensual statuary from the Chola period (300 B.C.-A.D. 1279). To major museums and wealthy collectors, such artifacts could be worth millions.
这座朴素的寺庙坐落在金奈以南200英里左右，正是土匪和黑市觊觎多年的类型——地处乡村、乏人问津，几乎没有保安措施，但又拥有朱罗王朝（公元前300年-公元1279年）时期精密复杂、富于情色意味的雕塑。对于大型博物馆和富有的收藏家来说，这些艺术品价值百万。
The Suthamalli site held 29 such statues, the police say, some brought over from another temple for “safekeeping” after a bungled burglary there in 1968. Some were for worship, others carried in an annual procession.
警方称，苏萨马利这座寺庙里原有29尊这样的塑像，有些是从另一座寺庙拿来“保管”的，因为1968年，那座寺庙曾经遭遇盗窃。有些塑像用来供人礼拜，还有一些是在年度庆典上展示的。
“They were things we had managed to protect since our ancestors’ time,” said Mr. Gurukkal, conversing on a cot outside his house in July, shirtless in a red lungi. “I’m not sure I’ll ever be able to see them again.”
“这些都是我们祖祖辈辈保存下来的，”7月，身上只围一块红色腰布的古鲁卡尔坐在自家屋外的小床上接受了采访。“我不知道还能不能再见到它们了。”
The theft had occurred a bit more than a month earlier, Indian investigators said. Since that time, the artifacts had sped from Suthamalli to Chennai to Hong Kong, then on to London and New Jersey; been falsely labeled inexpensive handicrafts; and been deposited in a New York storage unit controlled by Mr. Kapoor. Scrubbed and restored, they would soon be displayed in his gallery, often identified as objects from private collections.
印度调查人员当时认为，盗窃案发生在一个多月以前。然后，这些艺术品被伪装成便宜的手工艺品，从苏萨马利途径金奈来到香港，之后来到伦敦与新泽西，最终被储存在纽约一个由卡普尔控制的仓库里。经过清洗和修复，它们很快就将在他的画廊里展出，通常会被标记为私人收藏品。
Targets Ripe for Looting
适宜的目标
No one really knows when the looting Mr. Kapoor is accused of began.
没有人知道卡普尔被指控的掠夺行为是从何时开始的。
But India is a ripe target: It is home to thousands of remote shrines and archaeological sites with rare Hindu artifacts that sit unguarded. Vishakha N. Desai, a scholar at Columbia University who knew Mr. Kapoor, said government officials “show little concern for the protection of ancient heritage.”
但印度的确是一个适宜的目标：它拥有成千上万偏远的圣所与遗址，保存着稀有的印度教艺术品，却无人守护。哥伦比亚大学学者维沙卡·N·德赛(Vishakha N. Desai)认识卡普尔，他说印度政府官员“不怎么关心保护历史遗产。”
Representatives from the Idol Wing of the Tamil Nadu Police Department, in Chennai, which focuses on antiquities crimes, said Mr. Kapoor was already active in 2005 when he met with an associate, Sanjivi Asokan, at the five-star Taj Connemara hotel there.
坐落在金奈的泰米尔纳德警察局神像部专门负责文物犯罪，部门人士说，卡普尔自从2005年便开始活跃，当时他在这里的泰科纳玛拉五星酒店结识了一个名叫桑吉夫·阿索肯(Sanjivi Asokan)的伙伴。
Investigators say the men mapped out a straightforward scheme to rob dozens of ancient temples in Tamil Nadu that were watched, essentially, by no one.
调查者说，两人制定出一个明确的方案，洗劫了泰米尔纳德邦几十座近乎无人看守的古寺。
Indian prosecutors believe that men Mr. Asokan hired to commit the break-ins would even spread tales of killer bees and bat infestations to keep villagers away from the targets. Mr. Asokan and Mr. Kapoor would then smuggle the artifacts out of India, the police say, and send them on serpentine journeys to the United States.
印度检方称，阿索肯雇来行窃的人甚至会散布杀人蜂和杀人蝙蝠的谣言，阻止村民接近他们的目标。盗窃完成后，阿索肯和卡普尔会把这些文物走私出印度，经过漫长迂回的旅程，来到美国。
“The scale and brazenness of the thefts is truly mind-blowing,” said S. Vijay Kumar, a private investigator from Singapore who grew suspicious after noticing that Mr. Kapoor was selling an extraordinary number of rare Indian idols out of New York.
“盗窃的规模与无耻程度非常惊人，”来自新加坡的私人侦探S·维杰·库马尔(S. Vijay Kumar)说，他注意到卡普尔在纽约售出了大量珍稀印度神像，便开始了对他的怀疑。
With Mr. Kumar’s help, the Idol Wing set about matching lustrous pictures from Mr. Kapoor’s catalogs with black-and-white images of the Tamil Nadu statues, which had been photographed in the 1960s by French archivists from a scholarly institute in India.
在库马尔帮助下，神像部开始把卡普尔藏品目录上光鲜亮丽的彩色照片与泰米尔纳德神像的黑白照片进行对比，这些黑白照片还是60年代一位法国档案学家从印度一家学术机构翻拍而来。
They saw that the objects being offered, in many cases for millions of dollars, bore a singular resemblance to pictures of religious icons that had disappeared from Tamil Nadu and other sites across India. In 2009, the Idol Wing distributed wanted posters of the statues.
他们发现卡普尔这些价值数百万美元的藏品与泰米尔纳德，乃至印度各地失窃的神像非常相似。2009年，神像部开始公布这些失窃物品的通缉海报。
Soon, three burglars suspected of being paid by Mr. Asokan were arrested with Suthamalli statuary in their possession, the police say. They implicated Mr. Asokan (who has been charged in India with theft and smuggling) and Mr. Kapoor.
警方说，很快，三名被怀疑为阿索肯工作的窃贼就被逮捕了，他们手中还有苏萨马利村的雕像。他们供出了阿索肯（他已被印度方面以盗窃和走私起诉）与卡普尔。
After comparing notes with those of American investigators, Indian officials in October 2011 issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Kapoor, who was then in Frankfurt for an exhibition, and German officials jailed him in Cologne. In July 2012, Mr. Kapoor, a United States citizen, was extradited to his homeland.
对比了美国调查者的材料后，2011年10月，印度官方发布对卡普尔的逮捕令，他当时在法兰克福参加展览，德国警方在科隆逮捕了他。2012年7月，美国公民卡普尔被引渡回祖国印度。
Back in Manhattan, Matthew Bogdanos, an assistant district attorney, and Brenton M. Easter, an agent with Homeland Security Investigations, were building their own case. According to court documents, an informant who visited Art of the Past in 2011 while fitted with a recording device discussed the sales of multimillion-dollar statues, including one titled “Shiva Nataraja,” or “Dancing Shiva,” with Mr. Kapoor. The Shiva had already been matched to one of the items missing from Suthamalli.
在曼哈顿，助理检察官马修·博格达诺斯(Matthew Bogdanos)与国土安全局调查部特工布伦特·M·伊斯塔(Brenton M. Easter)也在对此立案调查。根据一项法律文件，一位线人2011年曾造访“逝去的艺术”，用录音录下了与卡普尔就价值数百万美元的雕像交易的交谈，其中包括一尊名为“舞王湿婆(Shiva Nataraja或Dancing Shiva)”的雕像。这尊湿婆像经比对已被证实是苏萨马利村遗失的物品。
Mr. Kapoor is accused of skillfully falsifying paperwork to make his items appear legitimate. Some buyers intent on acquiring the objects could have been duped, officials say, but others likely tossed aside misgivings in a rush to augment their collections.
卡普尔在美国因伪造文书，令其物品合法化而被起诉。官方说，有些买家可能是受骗了，但有些买家为了扩大收藏，完全无视这方面的顾虑。
Convinced that Mr. Kapoor and his associates knew that most of his goods were contraband, the authorities raided his gallery and two of his storage units in January 2012. They confiscated $20 million in antiquities, seized decades of paperwork and computer data, and questioned Art of the Past’s office manager, Aaron M. Freedman.
官方确信，卡普尔及其合伙人完全清楚，他的大部分物品是走私而来，2012年，官方对他的画廊和两处仓库进行了搜查，没收了价值2000万美元的古董，获取了数十年间的文件和电脑数据，并询问了“逝去的艺术”的业务经理亚伦·M·弗里德曼(Aaron M. Freedman)。
Mr. Freedman, officials have said in court papers, has since linked Mr. Kapoor to countless illegal sales, fraudulent customs forms, fake invoices and six-figure bank transfers to Mr. Asokan. After 12 raids from 2012 to 2014, officials had their 2,622 items in custody.
在法庭文书中，官方指控和卡普尔的无数桩不法交易密不可分，帮助卡普尔伪造海关表格、伪造发票，并向阿索肯的银行账户转移了六位数的资金。从2012年到2014年，官方对他们进行了12次搜查，没收了2622件物品。
A Gift for Obscuring a Trail
善于伪装的“天才”
One big question lingers amid the fallout from the Kapoor case: How could a gallery owner run such a large smuggling operation yet remain undetected for so long?
卡普尔案还带来这样一个疑问：为什么一个画廊主人犯下这样的惊天走私大案，但这么长的时间都没人发现？
Chiefly, investigators say, Mr. Kapoor had a talent for importing black market antiquities under false pretenses. He routinely received approval from Indian customs officials to ship items free of inspection. And he relied on confederates in Hong Kong to mislabel his cargo and mix it with other freight to help obscure its trail.
调查者们说，这主要是因为卡普尔极为擅长用伪装把黑市古董贩运到美国来。他经常得到印度海关官员的许可，可以不受检查地运送物品过关。香港的同伙帮他在货物箱外贴上标签，并将它们与其他货柜混合在一起，抹去痕迹。
Mr. Kapoor also counted on friends in the art trade to create fake letters claiming his contraband had a history of ownership outside India that predated the temple burglaries. One dealer in Singapore who vouched for him in writing was Paramaspry Punusamy, a former girlfriend. She became a witness against him in 2011, Indian officials said, after the two broke up and sued each other in Singapore — each claiming ownership of objects that were not truly theirs.
卡普尔还依靠艺术界的朋友们制造假文书，证明他走私而来的物品在印度以外的地方拥有一段收藏史，其日期早于相关寺院遭窃的日子。新加坡一位为他作担保的交易商是他的前女友，名叫帕拉玛斯普利·普努萨米(Paramaspry Punusamy)，印度官方说，2011年，她成了控告他的证人，两人分手后，还曾在新加坡互相起诉——双方都声称自己是本不属于他们的物品的主人。
“She is behind all this,” Mr. Kapoor’s lawyer, Mr. Jerold, said. “It is a case of revenge.” Ms. Punusamy, who was unavailable for comment, has not been charged but remains under investigation.
“一切都是她在幕后主使，”卡普尔的律师杰罗尔德说。“这是她的复仇。”普努萨玛没有接受采访，她未被起诉，但仍在接受调查。
The museums and collectors who spent lavishly on artworks from Mr. Kapoor are unlikely to recoup their money. The National Gallery of Australia, for example, bought a dancing Shiva from Mr. Kapoor in 2008 for $5.1 million. After an outcry from India, it returned the statue last fall, and is now suing Mr. Kapoor, whose assets have dwindled, for restitution.
斥巨资从卡普尔处购买古董的博物馆和收藏者们很可能也无法获得补偿。比如说，澳大利亚国家艺术馆2008年以510万美元从卡普尔处购买了一尊舞王湿婆像。在印度国内的呼吁之下，去年秋天，博物馆归还了这尊塑像，目前正在起诉卡普尔要求赔偿，但后者的财产已经缩水。
The criminal case against Mr. Kapoor is less linear. A revolving door of prosecutors in India has slowed his trial to a glacial pace. Manhattan prosecutors, meanwhile, must wait until India is done.
起诉卡普尔的刑事案件并不那么一帆风顺。印度的检察官像走马灯似的换了又换，这大大拖慢了审判的步伐。曼哈顿的公诉人只能先等待印度方面结案。
Investigators say they are still trying to unravel Mr. Kapoor’s network, and they believe his hoard will surpass 3,000 statues and relics taken from India, Pakistan, Cambodia and Tibet. They also face the monumental task of determining where exactly the items came from and how to return them.
调查者们说，他们仍在试图瓦解卡普尔的网络，他们相信，他囤积了超过3000件来自印度、巴基斯坦、柬埔寨和西藏的雕像和文物。要搞清这些物品的去向，如何一一归还，他们还有大量工作要做。
A Dream of Restitution
回归之梦
Today, the Varadharaja Perumal temple in Suthamalli is more or less abandoned. Without its precious inheritance, the temple has seen its long fall from glory into a mossy pile of rubble accelerate. Mr. Gurukkal visits Suthamalli only on the most auspicious days to light small clay oil lamps in the temple’s empty chamber.
如今，苏萨马利的瓦拉达拉贾贝鲁马尔神庙已经基本荒弃。没有了珍贵的遗产，这座寺院丧失了昔日的荣光，更快地沦为青苔覆盖的断壁残垣。古鲁卡尔只在最吉祥的日子里才来到苏萨马利，在寺院空荡荡的龛室里点燃一盏小小的油灯。
When told of the idols’ value on the international art market, his eyes bulged. Could it truly be that just one of the statues he had been visiting so casually was worth many times what he could hope to earn in a lifetime?
被告知那些神像在国际艺术市场上的价值时，他的眼睛瞪大了。他曾经那样漫不经心地看着那些雕像，如今仅仅是其中一座，就比他一生能挣的钱都要多无数倍，这难道是真的吗？
“I don’t know whether Kapoor will get punished, but they need to return the idols to us,” said Mr. Gurukkal, overcoming his surprise. “That’s all we’re asking.”
“我不知道卡普尔会不会受到惩罚，但他们得把那些神像还给我们，”古鲁卡尔镇静下来之后说。“这是我们唯一的要求。”