MEXICO CITY — Fidel Castro has ended his silence of almost six weeks over the deal to restore diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, writing in a letter that he supported a peaceful end to conflict but still distrusted American politics.
墨西哥城——美国与古巴重新建立外交关系几乎六周以来，菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)终于打破了对于此事的沉默，在一封信中称他支持和平解决冲突，不过仍表示不信任美国政界。
“We will always defend cooperation and friendship with all of the world’s people, among them our political adversaries,” Mr. Castro wrote in the letter. It was read to a student federation to observe the 70th anniversary of his matriculation at the University of Havana, and it was published late on Monday in Granma, the Communist Party’s official newspaper.
“我们一直都会捍卫与全世界人民的合作和友谊，包括政治上的对手，”卡斯特罗在信中写道。这封信是对举行活动庆祝卡斯特罗被哈瓦那大学(University of Havana)录取70周年的一个学生团体宣读的。周一晚些时候，这封信发表在了古巴共产党的机关报《格拉玛报》(Granma)上。
The conspicuous absence of Mr. Castro, 88, after the announcement on Dec. 17 of the détente after decades of tension and diplomatic estrangement prompted rumors in Havana and Miami that he was dead.
现年88岁的卡斯特罗在12月17日两国关系缓和之后一直保持沉默，这种引人关注的现象开始在哈瓦那和迈阿密催生了他已经去世的传闻。在此之前的几十年里，美国和古巴的关系一直紧张，外交上也很疏远。
Those were largely calmed by a letter two weeks ago from him to the Argentine soccer star Diego Maradona.
两周前他给阿根廷球星迭戈·马拉多纳(Diego Maradona)写的一封信，很大程度上打消了上述揣测。
But that letter did not mention the re-establishment of diplomatic relations with the United States, leaving analysts to wonder whether Mr. Castro, who had stared down nearly a dozen American presidents during the long standoff between the two nations, approved of the deal.
但是那封信中并没有提及与美国重新建交一事，这让许多分析人士开始怀疑，在两国长久的对抗中威压十多位美国总统的卡斯特罗，并不认可重新建交的安排。
In the letter published on Monday, Mr. Castro was wide-ranging, skipping from global economic inequality and Greek notions of utopia to Cuba’s role in the Angolan conflict before addressing the reconciliation of Cuba and the United States.
但在周一发表的信中，卡斯特罗却谈到了很多议题，从全球经济不平等跳到希腊人所理解的乌托邦，又跳到古巴在安格拉冲突中扮演的角色，之后开始谈论古巴与美国的和解。
“I shall explain my essential position in a few words,” he wrote. “I do not trust the politics of the United States, nor have I exchanged a word with them, but this is not, in any way, a rejection of a peaceful solution to conflicts.”
“我简短地解释一下自己的关键立场，”他写道。“我不信任美国政界，也没有和他们有过任何交流，但这并不是以任何方式排斥和平地解决冲突。”
His brother, he wrote, had “taken the relevant steps in line with the prerogatives and authorities awarded to him by the National Assembly and the Cuban Communist Party.”
他写道，他的弟弟“采取了必要的举动，符合国民大会和古巴共产党授予他的职务和权力”。
The State Department said Tuesday that Mr. Castro’s comments were a “positive sign,” but cautioned that distrust was mutual.
美国国务院周二表示，卡斯特罗的评论是一个“积极的信号”，但警告说这种不信任是相互的。
“It’s fair to say there’s a lack of trust, but we’re working to build that trust,” said Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, in Washington.
“可以说的确是缺乏信任，但是我们正在努力建立这种信任，”国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)表示。
Ms. Psaki, who noted that the State Department could not confirm whether Mr. Castro had actually written the comments, said that he referred to respecting “international norms and principles” in ending the two countries’ bitter impasse.
普萨基表示，国务院无法核实卡斯特罗是不是的确写过这些评论，但她说卡斯特罗在评论中就结束两国之间的僵局表态称，会尊重“国际规范和原则”。
American officials look forward to Cuba’s implementing those norms “for a democratic, prosperous and stable Cuba,” she said, adding that nobody believed Mr. Castro was “planning to be a part of” coming negotiations with Cuban officials.
她说，美国官员期望古巴践行这些规范，建立一个“民主、繁荣和稳定的古巴”，她还说没有人认为卡斯特罗“计划加入”即将与古巴官员开展的谈判。
Brian Latell, a former analyst at the C.I.A. who has tracked the Castros for decades, noted that the letter did not mention the three Cuban spies who had been imprisoned in the United States and were returned to the island as part of the negotiations.
曾关注卡斯特罗家族数十年的前CIA分析员布莱恩·拉特尔(Brian Latell)提到，这封信中没有谈及曾被美国囚禁的三名古巴间谍。作为谈判的一部分，这些间谍已经回到了古巴。
Fidel Castro had campaigned for years for the return of the spies, originally part of a group of five, turning them into a cause célèbre in left-leaning circles abroad.
菲德尔·卡斯特罗为了让间谍回国已经呼吁多年，使之在海外的左翼圈子里成了一项重大议题。最初被囚禁的间谍有五人。