LONDON — Prime Minister David Cameron on Tuesday formally laid out Britain's conditions for remaining in the European Union, seeking changes in his country's relationship with Brussels that he is betting are substantial enough to win over a majority of British voters but modest enough for the rest of Europe to swallow.
伦敦——周二，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)正式提出了该国留在欧盟的条件，寻求以此改变英国与布鲁塞尔之间的关系。他的提议需要做到既有实质内容，足以赢得多数英国选民，又足够温和，好让欧洲其他国家能够接受。
In a speech here and a written letter of proposals for reform, Cameron called on fellow European leaders to grant him a series of concessions to help persuade wavering Britons to remain in a bloc that critics say has become a vast bureaucracy impinging on their national sovereignty and way of life. Cameron has promised to put the issue to a referendum by the end of 2017, and his aides suggest that he might do so as early as next June.
卡梅伦发表了一段演讲，还发表了一封改革提议书。他呼吁欧洲其他领导人对他做出一些让步，从而帮助他说服犹豫不决的英国人留在欧盟。批评者指责欧盟已经变成一个庞大的官僚体系，损害了英国主权和生活方式。卡梅伦承诺在2017年年底前，就这个问题举行全民公决，他的助手表示，他最早可能在明年6月就会这样做。
In his speech, Cameron told British voters that their decision would be crucial and the final say on the issue — a “once-in-a-generation choice.”
卡梅伦在演讲中对英国选民说，他们的决定至关重要，他们是这个问题的定夺者——这属于“一代人只有一次”的抉择。
The negotiation over Britain's demands will also be a crucial test for nations, starting with Germany and France, that are struggling to maintain cohesion and a sense of progress within the bloc after years in which economic stagnation, rising populism and assertive nationalism have undercut their plans to bind the Continent's governments and people more closely together.
对英国的要求开展谈判的过程，也将对一些国家构成重大考验，首当其冲的就是德国和法国。近年来欧盟经济停滞，民粹主义和激进民族主义日益崛起，维持欧盟的凝聚力和进步感愈发困难，这些国家将欧洲各国政府和民众更紧密地整合在一起的计划，也因此受到冲击。
Cameron's demands included a safeguard to prevent countries that use the euro from discriminating economically against Britain, which has retained the pound, and an end to Britain's legal commitment, as a signatory to EU treaties, to pursue an “ever closer union,” which conservatives see as a threat to national sovereignty. He also called for a reduction in regulatory red tape as a way of improving economic competitiveness.
卡梅伦的要求包括提供保护机制，防止欧元区在经济上歧视仍然使用英镑的英国，并取消英国在签署欧盟条约时做出的寻求“不断加深一体化”的法律承诺，因为保守派认为这是对国家主权的威胁。他还呼吁简化监管手续，以增进经济竞争力。
Crucially, he said that Britain should have the right to restrict welfare entitlements, including benefits for low-income workers, for four years for migrants arriving from other European countries.
最重要的是，他说，英国应当有权对福利待遇加以限制，包括对低收入工人的福利，以及对来自欧盟其他国家的移民，设置4年的福利限制期。
Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations, a research institute, said Cameron was striking a tricky balance.
研究机构欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)主任马克·伦纳德(Mark Leonard)表示，卡梅伦把握了微妙的平衡。
“The speech has both pro-European elements — preparing the case to keep Britain in the European Union — and language that is much more aggressive,” he said.
“演讲中既有亲欧洲的元素——为让英国留在欧盟做准备——也有较为激烈的措辞，”他说。