ABERDEEN, Scotland — With Scotland’s independence referendum apparently too close to call, Prime Minister David Cameron on Monday used his final speech to Scots before Thursday’s vote to warn that there would be no turning back from a “painful divorce” from Britain.
苏格兰阿伯丁——周一，随着苏格兰独立公投在即，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在面向苏格兰民众发表演讲时警告称，一旦与英国“痛苦离婚”，便没有回头路。这是卡梅伦在周四举行投票前最后一次发表讲话。
“There’s no going back from this, no rerun,” Mr. Cameron told supporters in the northeastern city of Aberdeen, the heart of Scotland’s oil industry. “If Scotland votes yes, the U.K. will split, and we will go our separate ways forever.”
“这样做了就无法回头，无法重新来过，”卡梅伦在苏格兰东北部的石油工业中心阿伯丁市对支持者说。“如果苏格兰投赞成票，联合王国将就此分裂，我们将永远各奔东西。”
He added, “Independence would not be a trial separation, it would be a painful divorce.”
他接着说，“独立不是尝试分居，而是一场痛苦的离婚。”
His message came hours after the leader of the campaign for independence, Alex Salmond, Scotland’s first minister, told Scots that the vote would be their last say on their constitutional future for many years.
在卡梅伦发表此番讲话的几个小时前，独立运动领导人、苏格兰首席大臣亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)告诉苏格兰民众，投票将是他们决定未来多年的宪制的最后机会。
Speaking in Edinburgh alongside business leaders, Mr. Salmond described the referendum as a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for Scotland.” He argued that, freed from London, Scotland would be able to pursue distinct, and more social-democratic, policies — one of his central messages to Scots, who in recent decades have tilted to the left of England, throughout the campaign.
与多位商业领袖同时现身的萨尔蒙德在爱丁堡发表讲话时称，公投是“苏格兰千载难逢的机会”。他说，从伦敦解脱出来后，苏格兰将能追求不同的、更能体现社会民主的政策。这是他在整个拉票活动中传达给苏格兰民众的核心讯息之一。近几十年来，苏格兰民众一直在向英格兰的左翼移动。
Mr. Cameron, though, blended appeals not to “break this family apart” with emphasis on the economic risks of independence, saying that there would be no currency union with an independent Scotland. He pointed out that, after a yes vote, more than half of all mortgages in Scotland would be held by foreign banks. He also rejected the assertion that the yes campaign was more positive in tone, arguing that it was about “dividing people.”
然而，卡梅伦在呼吁不要“拆散这个家庭”的同时，强调了独立会带来的经济风险，称苏格兰独立后，货币联盟将不复存在。他指出，在独立后，苏格兰一半以上的抵押贷款将由外国银行持有。他还驳斥了独立阵营在语气上更积极的说法，称其涉及“分裂人民”。
As the vote approaches, campaigning has intensified, with politicians, sports personalities and musicians on both sides of the issue trying to sway public opinion.
随着投票的临近，活动已进入白热化，双方的政界人士、体坛名人和音乐家均尝试左右民意。
David Beckham, a former captain of England’s national soccer team, announced support for pro-union campaigners who were planning to demonstrate in central London.
英格兰国家足球队前队长大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)宣布支持亲联盟的活动人士。这些人士计划在伦敦市中心进行示威。
Even Queen Elizabeth II appeared to enter the debate, albeit in an elliptical manner.
就连伊丽莎白二世女王(Queen Elizabeth II)似乎也参与进了这场辩论，尽管是以一种较为隐晦的方式。
The British news media reported that the queen had told an onlooker after attending church near her Balmoral estate in the Scottish Highlands on Sunday that she hoped “people will think very carefully about the future.”
英国新闻媒体报道称，周日，在其位于苏格兰高地的巴尔莫勒尔(Balmoral)庄园附近的教堂做完礼拜后，女王告诉一名旁观者，她希望“民众非常慎重地考虑未来”。
Shocked by opinion polls showing that the vote could go either way, the no campaign has been pushed into a drastic late change of tactics. Last week, the leaders of Britain’s three main political parties set aside parliamentary duties to campaign in Scotland.
民调显示，投票结果两种可能性都有。震惊之下，反对阵营被迫在最后时刻大幅改变策略。上周，英国三大政党的领袖放下议会的工作，前往苏格兰开展活动。