HAVANA — At the Salon Rojo, one of Havana’s most popular nightspots, where the reggaeton usually blares into the early hours, the music stopped abruptly.
哈瓦那——在哈瓦那最受欢迎的夜总会罗霍沙龙(Salon Rojo)，通常持续到清晨才停歇的雷鬼动(reggaeton)音乐戛然而止。
An announcement was made: Fidel Castro had died.
有人宣布：菲德尔·卡斯特罗死了。
The police waved along young women in miniskirts and young men with gelled mohawks as they spilled into the streets. No one was weeping. No one was chanting.
穿着迷你裙的年轻女子和抹了发胶、梳起莫霍克发型的年轻男子涌上街道，警察驱赶着他们。没有人哭泣。没有人吟咏祷文。
Some said the country would be better off, freer now, though they said it quietly, wary that someone might overhear such hopes. A hearse, repurposed as a taxi, happened to drive by.
有人说，现在这个国家会变得更好、更自由了，不过他们说话的声音很小，以提防他们的希望遭人偷听。一辆改装为出租车的灵车碰巧驶过。
“Take him with you,” one of the young men shouted with a smile as a friend cheered him on. The young women with them looked embarrassed, but not angry.
“带他和你一起走，”一个年轻人微笑着喊道，一个朋友给他助威。与他们在一起的年轻女子看起来有点尴尬，但并不生气。
A few feet away from a crowd of partygoers, three neighbors, each in their 50s and consoling one another, stood in their apartment building’s doorway facing the iconic Hotel Nacional.
与一群聚会者相距几英尺远的地方，三个50多岁的邻居站在自己公寓大楼的门口，正互相安慰，哈瓦那的地标建筑民族大酒店(Hotel Nacional)就在对面。
Concepcion Garcia, 55, looked at the young people around her with disappointment.
55岁的康塞普西翁·加西亚(Concepcion Garcia)失望地看着周围的年轻人。
“What a rich experience we have had, to live the two periods of Cuba — capitalism and socialism,” she said. “Imagine how we Cubans feel. The most precious thing we have just died.”
“我们有丰富的经验，经历了古巴的两个时期，资本主义和社会主义时期，”她说。“想像一下我们古巴人的感觉吧，我们刚刚失去了最珍贵的东西。”
With the departure of Cuba’s epic revolutionary in green fatigues, at the age of 90, the residents of Havana have not erupted so much as moved into their own emotional corners. All over this city on Saturday, indifference and relief stood side by side with sorrow and surprise as the conflicts that characterized Fidel Castro in life continued to reverberate after his death.
穿着绿色劳动服的古巴传奇革命者以90高龄过世，哈瓦那的居民并没有出现发自内心的情绪爆发。上周六，在这个城市里，有人无动于衷、如释重负，也有人难过、惊讶，菲德尔·卡斯特罗生前的种种冲突，在其死后将持续振荡。
“He was the only leader I ever knew,” Graciela Martinez, 51, said as she mopped the floors of a cafe near the American Embassy on Saturday morning. She paused, then began to weep, thinking of her father, who fought for the revolution — and of her relatives who had fled to the United States.
“他是我唯一知道的领导人，”51岁的格拉谢拉·马丁内斯(Graciela Martinez)周六早晨在美国大使馆附近的一家咖啡馆里一边擦地板一边说。然后她停下来，开始哭，因为想到为革命而战的父亲——以及逃到美国的亲戚。
“For those who loved him, he was the greatest,” she said of Mr. Castro. “For those who hated him, there was no one worse.”
“对于那些爱他的人，他是最伟大的，”她这么评价卡斯特罗。“对于那些讨厌他的人，没有人比他更糟糕了。”
Cuba, a verdant, struggling country of 11 million people that has been moving slowly toward free-market changes, finds itself again at an international crossroads. Mr. Castro died as Venezuela has pulled back financial support, facing its own political and economic crisis, and the détente engineered under President Obama threatens to be rolled back by President-elect Donald J. Trump.
古巴，这个植被葱郁、有着1100万人口的贫困国家正在慢慢向自由市场转化，他们发现自己正站在一个国际十字路口。卡斯特罗逝世之际，正逢委内瑞拉自己出现了政治和经济危机，撤回了对古巴的经济支持，而候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)威胁说要撤销奥巴马总统改善两国关系的计划。
While Mr. Obama issued condolences to the Castro family and offered “a hand of friendship to the Cuban people,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “Fidel Castro is dead!” and later issued a statement calling him a “brutal dictator.”
奥巴马向卡斯特罗家人表示了慰问，并向古巴人民伸出了“友谊之手”；特朗普则在Twitter上写道，“菲德尔·卡斯特罗死了！”后来他又发表一份声明，称其为“残暴的独裁者”。
Cuban officials have long maintained that the island has diversified its international ties enough to withstand financial or political storms. But after decades of unfulfilled promises about economic growth, the passing of Mr. Castro may open rifts both inside and outside Cuba over how to proceed.
古巴官员一直认为，该岛已经实现了国际关系多样化，足以抵挡金融或政治风暴。但他们关于经济增长的承诺几十年来都没有兑现，卡斯特罗过世后，古巴如何发展的问题可能会在国内外引起分歧。
Elaine Díaz, an independent blogger in Cuba, said she expected Mr. Castro’s death to lead to more diversity of opinion within the leadership. The Cuban government likes to portray itself as a monolith, even though some factions are more conservative than others, she said.
古巴一位独立博客作者伊莱恩·迪亚兹(Elaine Díaz)说，她预计卡斯特罗的死亡将导致领导层的观念更加多样化。她说，古巴政府喜欢把自己描绘成一个整体，即使有些派系比其他派系更加保守。
“This is going to bring that out in public,” she said.
“卡斯特罗死后，那种分歧会暴露在公众面前，”她说。
On Friday night, for example, many young people did not respond with any visible emotion when they were told of Mr. Castro’s death. On Saturday, many went about their day as usual, arguing that little would change because of Mr. Castro’s demise.
例如，在上周五晚上，很多年轻人在得知卡斯特罗去世时，并没有表现出明显的情绪反应。周六，很多人像往常一样继续过日子，他们认为卡斯特罗的过世不会带来什么改变。
“The country will continue on the path that it’s on,” said Abraham Jimenez Enoa, 27, a co-creator of an independent blog called “el estornudo,” or “the sneeze.” “I don’t really see changes in the near future.”
“这个国家将继续在目前的道路上前进，”独立博客el estornudo（意为“喷嚏”）的联合创始人、27岁的亚伯拉罕· 希门尼斯·埃诺阿(Abraham Jimenez Enoa)说。“我觉得短期内不会有什么变化。”
The response could not have been more different from that of the government or its strongest supporters. Their grief began with a brief televised speech by Raúl Castro announcing that “El Comandante” had died. He did not emphasize that the man was also his brother — his passing was a loss for the nation.
政府及其坚定支持者的反应与此截然不同。他们的悲伤始于劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)在电视上发表的简短讲话，他宣布，“司令官”去世了。他没有强调逝者是他的哥哥，也没有说他的去世是这个国家的损失。
By sunrise, flags all over Havana had been lowered to half-staff. Young and old gathered in small groups, and where there might have normally been laughter or yelling, whispers filled the void.
太阳升起后，哈瓦那全城降半旗。老老少少一簇簇聚在一起，通常的笑声或喊叫声被低声细语所取代。
Much of Havana seemed uncertain about exactly how to feel, or at least how to talk about it.
哈瓦拉的很多人似乎不确定自己到底该是什么感受，或者至少不知道该如何谈论这件事。
“It is a very strange feeling,” said Francisco Rodríguez Cruz, a prominent blogger and gay activist who supports the revolution. He was one of many who said losing Mr. Castro was like losing a parent.
“这是非常奇怪的感觉，”著名博客作者、支持革命的同性恋活动人士弗朗西斯科·罗德里格斯·克鲁斯(Francisco Rodríguez Cruz)说。他和很多人一样，称失去卡斯特罗就像失去至亲。
“With this death, you feel that your own life is spread before you,” Mr. Cruz, 46, said.
“他的去世让你感觉好像自己的生活在眼前坍塌了，”46岁的克鲁斯说。
Many others looked back to what they had gained in Fidel’s Cuba. Ms. Garcia removed her glasses and pointed at her eyes.
还有很多人开始回顾自己在菲德尔统治时期获得了什么。加西亚摘掉眼镜，指着自己的眼睛。
“I have the revolution and Fidel to thank for this cataract surgery,” she said, adding that she would not have been able to afford the procedure without Cuba’s socialized medical care. It did not cost her a cent, she said.
“我能做白内障手术要感谢革命和菲德尔，”她说。她还说，如果没有古巴的社会化医疗制度，她做不起这个手术。她说，做手术她没花一分钱。
“He put Cuba on the map,” Ms. Garcia added, “and the world has recognized that.”
“他让古巴登上了世界舞台，”加西亚还说，“让世界承认了它。”
Long after the sun soared over Havana harbor, the Malecon, usually bustling at all hours, was devoid of all but jogging tourists and a few cars.
太阳在哈瓦那港口马勒孔(Malecón)升起很久之后，这个往常无时无刻都很繁忙的港口除了慢跑的游客和少数几辆车之外，几乎空无一人。
But the news for Cuba’s memorial plans moved through the streets quickly. He was to be cremated Saturday. There would be a period of public mourning in Havana on Monday and Tuesday, and then a procession over the course of the week, with the revolutionary’s ashes moving across the country from Havana to the city known as the cradle of the revolution, Santiago de Cuba, where he would be put to rest on Sunday, Dec. 4.
不过，古巴悼念活动的安排很快传遍大街小巷。他将于周六火化。周一和周二，哈瓦那将举行公祭，接下来的一周将举行送葬活动。这位革命者的骨灰将从哈瓦那出发，走遍整个国家，最后送往被称为革命摇篮的圣地亚哥-德古巴市。12月4日（周日），他将在那里下葬。