Former President Jimmy Carter said Thursday that doctors had found cancer on his brain and that he would begin radiation treatments later in the day.
本周四，美国前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)宣布，医生在他的脑部发现了癌细胞，他将在当天晚些时候开始接受放疗。
During a news conference at the Carter Center here, Mr. Carter, 90, said that he had four melanoma spots on his brain and that another cancerous mass had been removed from his liver during a procedure on Aug. 3. He had announced last week that he had cancer, but Thursday’s appearance was the first time that he publicly detailed his condition.
在卡特中心(Carter Center)的一个新闻发布会上，90岁的卡特表示，他的脑部有四个黑色素瘤斑点，另外他已经在8月3日的手术中从肝脏中取出了一个癌变肿块。上周，他宣布自己患有癌症，但本周四的露面是他第一次公开详述自己的病情。
“I’m perfectly at ease with whatever comes,” Mr. Carter said. “I do have a deep religious faith, which I’m very grateful for.”
“我会坦然接受任何状况，”卡特说。“我有很深的宗教信念，对此我觉得幸运。”
He acknowledged, however, immediate feelings that he “had just a few weeks left” when he first learned of the cancer on his brain.
但他承认，在首次听说自己脑部有癌变时，他当即感觉自己“只剩下几周时间了”。
Mr. Carter, dressed in a blazer and bluejeans, was by turns clinical and homespun as he outlined his treatment plans, including months of radiation.
卡特身着西装便服和牛仔裤，在简要介绍他的治疗计划，包括数个月的放疗时，他时而使用临床术语，时而采用日常说法。
He announced that he would curtail his schedule and work at the Carter Center, the nonprofit he co-founded in 1982, the year after he left the White House. But he said he still hoped to travel to Nepal in November to work with Habitat for Humanity, an organization he has long supported.
他宣布，他将减少日程安排和在卡特中心的工作量。该中成立于1982年，是卡特离开白宫一年后与人共同创办的一个非营利组织。但他表示，他仍然希望在今年11月与他长期支持的组织仁人家园(Habitat for Humanity)一同前往尼泊尔。
Mr. Carter’s doctors began to scrutinize his health closely after he caught a cold while traveling in Guyana this spring. His doctors, at Emory University in Atlanta, noticed a mass on his liver that they believed was cancerous, but surgery was delayed because Mr. Carter was scheduled to begin a book tour.
今年春天在圭亚那旅游患上感冒之后，医生开始密切注意卡特的健康状况。他在亚特兰大埃默里大学(Emory University)的医生发现，他的肝脏里有个肿块。医生认为那是癌变，但因为卡特要进行一个巡回售书活动，手术被推迟。
After the Aug. 3 procedure, which Mr. Carter’s office described at the time as “elective,” doctors concluded that the cancer was also in his brain. Mr. Carter, whose wife, Rosalynn, sat nearby on Thursday, said that his doctors had scheduled four radiation treatments at three-week intervals, and that he would receive another treatment intravenously.
当时卡特的办公室说，8月3日的手术是“非急需的”。手术后，医生发现他的脑部也有癌变。本周四，卡特说他的医生已安排了4个放疗疗程，时间间隔为三周，他还会接受一种静脉注射式疗法。他的妻子罗莎琳(Rosalynn)一直坐在身旁。
Mr. Carter said that he had so far faced minimal discomfort and that his cancer had not spread to his pancreas, a point of particular concern because Mr. Carter’s father and three siblings all died of pancreatic malignancies.
卡特说，他迄今经历的不适感很轻微，癌细胞尚未扩散到胰腺，这一点特别值得注意，因为卡特的父亲和三个兄弟姐妹死于恶性胰腺肿瘤。
Former presidents have generally chosen to make announcements about their health in writing, as Ronald Reagan did in 1994 when he disclosed that he had Alzheimer’s disease. But Mr. Carter’s appearance on Thursday, by turns clinical and homespun, hewed closely to his public identity: an accessible statesman with both a deep command of details and an untroubled grace.
前总统通常会以书面方式宣布自己的健康状况，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)在1994年透露自己患上阿兹海默症时就采取了这种做法。但是，卡特本周四交替以医疗术语和日常说法介绍自己的病情，这与他的公众形象十分契合：一位平易近人的政治家，重视细节，淡定从容。
As he addressed dozens of journalists and supporters, Mr. Carter appeared to display “a certain vulnerability that we don’t often get a glimpse of in our presidents,” said Mark K. Updegrove, the director of the Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library and the author of a 2006 book about modern post-presidencies.
在面对几十名记者和支持者讲话时，卡特似乎显示了“某种在我们的总统身上不常见到的脆弱感，”林登·贝恩斯·约翰逊总统图书馆(Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library)馆长马克·K·厄普德格罗夫(Mark K.Updegrove)说。厄普德格罗夫曾在2006年出版过一本书，讲述现代总统卸任后的状况。
”We’ve seen presidents reveal their health conditions, as we saw with Reagan’s letter, through more indirect means,” Mr. Updegrove said. “But there is Jimmy Carter in front of the cameras, really in a moment of total honesty, and that just doesn’t happen very often for any public servant.”
“我们之前看到总统透露自己的健康状况时都比较间接，就像里根的信那样，”厄普德格罗夫说。“但是吉米·卡特出现在镜头前，非常坦诚，这在任何公职人员身上都是很少发生的。”
Although Mr. Carter said he would be reducing his public schedule, he added that he still intended to teach Sunday school this weekend at Maranatha Baptist Church, the congregation in Plains, Ga., where he has long appeared.
虽然卡特表示会削减公众事务安排，但他说，本周末他仍会去乔治亚州普莱恩斯的马拉南萨浸信会教堂(Maranatha Baptist Church)教主日学校。他长期去那所教堂参加活动。