TOKYO — Clunky? Perhaps. Geeky? Absolutely. But for three decades Casio Computer’s G-Shock line of digital watches has dominated a small, yet lucrative, market.
东京——它也许外形笨重，可是绝对具有极客风范。不管怎么说，过去三十年里，卡西欧计算机株式会社(Casio Computer)的G-Shock系列数码手表一直主宰着一个规模虽小却利润颇丰的市场。
The geeky-watch niche is now drawing interest from some of the biggest names in technology. Apple trademarked “iWatch” in several countries earlier this year, which has fueled intense speculation that it is working on a wristwatch that would link with a smartphone. Samsung Electronics is expected to unveil a watch in early September that can make phone calls, play video games and send e-mails.
现在，极客手表的小众市场正在引起一些最知名科技公司的兴趣。今年早些时候，苹果(Apple)在几个国家为“iWatch”注册了商标，此举引发了外界的种种猜测，认为苹果正在开发一款和智能手机相连的手表。预计三星电子(Samsung Electronics)将在9月初发布一款手表，这款手表能打电话、玩电子游戏、还能发送电子邮件。
Last month, Sony revamped its Smartwatch, which communicates with smartphones and lets users play games or check Facebook by tapping their wrists. And a flurry of start-ups, like Pebble, are coming out with timepieces that claim to redefine what goes on the wrist.
上个月，索尼(Sony)改进了它的Smartwatch，它能和智能手机相连，能让用户以点击手表的方式玩游戏或查看Facebook。Pebble等一大批的创业公司都在推出号称将重新定义腕上装备的手表。
“Suddenly, everyone’s discovered the wrist,” Kazuo Kashio, Casio’s 84-year-old chief executive, said in an interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters. “We’ve known for a long time it’s prime real estate. We’re prepared.”
84岁的卡西欧会长樫尾和雄(Kazuo Kashio)在位于东京的总部大楼里接受采访时说，“突然之间，所有人都发现了手腕这东西。长久以来，我们一直知道手表是一块优质的地产。我们是有准备的。”
The spike in interest in wearable computing devices is shaking up the digital watch industry, catapulting a sleepy business to the cutting edge of personal technology. In the process, established digital watchmakers like Casio are finding that they must contend with new competitors.
对可佩戴电脑设备的兴趣增长正在撼动数码手表业，让一个萎靡不振的行业一举跃入个人科技行业的前沿。在这个过程中，卡西欧等老牌数码手表制造商发现，他们必须和新对手一较高下。
But that is nothing new for Casio, a company with $3.06 billion in annual revenue that also makes compact cameras, musical instruments and calculators. For instance, the introduction of the smartphone, which has a better camera in every iteration, has knocked the makers of compact cameras for a loop.
不过，这对年收入达30.6亿美元（约合187.3亿元人民币）的卡西欧来说不是什么新鲜事，这家公司还生产袖珍照相机、乐器和计算器。例如智能手机自问世后，每次更新换代都会对摄像头进行升级，令袖珍型相机生产商很是狼狈。
Minolta exited cameras in 2006, selling its camera technology to Sony. This year, Olympus and Fujifilm each said they would drop lower-end models after plunging sales. Even heavyweights like Canon and Nikon have seen sales fall in their point-and-shoot models.
美能达(Minolta)于2006年退出相机市场，把旗下的照相机技术卖给了索尼。今年，奥林巴斯(Olympus)和富士(Fujifilm)都说，在销售额大跌之后，他们将会放弃低端型号的产品。即使像佳能(Canon)和尼康(Nikon)这样的行业巨头，都发现他们的全自动型相机的销售有所下降。
Shipments of digital cameras fell 43 percent in the first half of 2013 from a year earlier, according to the Camera and Imaging Products Association. In 2012, they dropped 15 percent.
根据日本国际相机影像器材工业协会(Camera and Imaging Products Association)的数据，2013年第一季度的数码相机出货量比去年同期下跌了43%。2012年的下跌幅度是15%。
Casio has taken a beating, too. Last year, it broke even, but analysts say its focus on lower-end, thin cameras means it will continue to lose market share. This makes their watch business even more important.
卡西欧也受到打击。去年，该公司既没赔也没赚，然而分析人士说，把重心集中在低端轻薄相机上的做法，意味着该公司将继续失去市场份额。这让该公司的手表业务显得愈发重要起来。
Sales in digital watches now account for 85 percent of Casio’s operating profit of approximately $206 million. But in a report earlier this year, analysts for Credit Suisse said the advantage would increasingly tilt toward companies that focus on connectivity, apps and user interfaces.
现在，在卡西欧将近2.06亿美元的营业净利中，数码手表的销售额占了85%。不过，在今年早些时候发布的一份报告中，瑞信(Credit Suisse)的分析师说，优势将会越来越偏向那些把重点放在互联性、应用软件和用户界面的公司。
Moreover, the emerging role of the smartphone as a hub that keeps gadgets like smartwatches connected gives a distinct advantage to Apple and Google, which dominate the smartphone universe, those analysts said.
不仅如此，分析人士说，智能手机正在成为维系智能手表等数码设备的互联枢纽，它的这个新角色给苹果和谷歌(Google)带来了明显的优势，这两家公司主宰着智能手机业。
“Wearables are rapidly evolving from single-function, hard-to-connect, dumb devices to what we believe will be increasingly become multifunction, always-connected, smart/aware devices,” they said. The market for such technology — including smartwatches, fitness monitors, shoes and headsets — could jump tenfold to as much as $50 billion in the next two to three years, the report said.
他们说，“可佩带电子设备正从功能单一、难以连接的单调设备，迅速演变成我们认为将日渐变得多功能化、且时时在线的智能/感知设备。”报告说，在今后两到三年内，包括智能手表、健身监视器、鞋和耳机在内的此类技术市场将会增长十倍，达到500亿美元的市值。
Citizen, Casio and other Japanese manufacturers developed calculator watches in the late 1970s, but they never took off. Casio soon emerged as a leading digital watchmaker, adding dictionaries, blood pressure sensors, a touch screen and gesture control by the late 1980s.
西铁城(Citizen)、卡西欧和其他日本生产商于20世纪70年代末研制了计算器手表，然而这类手表从未畅销过。到20世纪80年代末，卡西欧把字典、血压传感器、触摸屏和手势控制功能加进手表，该公司很快就成为主要的数码手表生产商。
But after disappointing sales of many of those models — Mr. Kashio said the company was ahead of its time — Casio instead turned its attention to making the weatherproof, shatterproof G-Shock watches. The G-Shock has since won a following thanks to its retro look, low price, durability and technophile cachet.
然而这些款式的手表有很多销量平平——樫尾和雄说公司走在了时代的前面，卡西欧转而把注意力放在了制造防风雨及防震的G-Shock系列手表上。自此之后，G-Shock系列手表凭借其流行的外观、低廉的价格、经久耐用的品质和迷恋科技的声望赢得了一批追随者。
Other watchmakers also struggled. Fossil has worked with Sony Ericsson, Microsoft and Palm to develop high-tech watches, including a 2005 personal organizer watch that came with a tiny stylus.
其他手表制造商也在苦苦挣扎，Fossil曾和索尼爱立信(Sony Ericsson)、微软(Microsoft)及Palm合作开发高科技手表，其中包括2005年推出的一款私人事务备忘手表，该手表还配有一支触摸笔。
In 2004, Microsoft introduced the Spot watch, which would display news, weather and stock quotes via radio waves. Swatch teamed with Microsoft on the Paparazzi. Both companies have since discontinued those efforts with little to show for them.
2004年，微软推出了Spot手表，这款手表能通过无线电波显示新闻、天气和股市行情。斯沃琪(Swatch)和微软携手推出了狗仔(Paparazzi)手表。因为前景渺茫，两家公司随后中断了这方面的努力。
“Until now, smartwatches haven’t quite been able to find their raison d’être,” said Kuninori So, vice president of the Tokyo-based technology consultancy, ROA Holdings. “If Apple comes out with a revolutionary smartwatch with a beautifully easy to use interface, that could change.”
“直到现在，智能手表还没能完全找到自己存在的理由，”总部位于东京的技术咨询公司ROA控股株式会社(ROA Holdings)副社长宋国宪(Kuninori So)说。“如果苹果推出革命性的、拥有漂亮而易用的界面的智能手表，情况可能会发生改变。”
Casio continues to aggressively market new products. Last year, it introduced a watch that uses Bluetooth to let wearers see incoming calls and messages. And it is working on a host of new models, including one that will let joggers post details of their runs online, Mr. Kashio said.
卡西欧继续大力推销新产品。去年，卡西欧推出了一款通过蓝牙让佩戴者看到未接来电及信息的手表。樫尾和雄表示，该公司正在研制一些新款手表，包括一种允许慢跑者将跑步细节贴到网上的手表。
Casio contends that it has an advantage because wearable devices like watches, which might accidentally be slammed into a wall or dunked into water, require far more ruggedness and durability than tech companies are used to. G-Shock watches are built to withstand extreme shocks, and they go through rigorous testing using custom machines that smash them onto a concrete slab, strike them with a hammer, shake them, spin them and submerge them in water.
卡西欧认为自己是有优势的，因为像手表这种可佩带装置对坚固性及耐用性要求远高于科技公司所熟悉的那个标准。手表可能一不小心就会碰到墙上或浸入水中。G-Shcok系列手表能够抵抗极大地冲击，它们经过了利用定制机器进行的严格测试，这些机器将它们压到一块混凝土板上，用锤子敲打它们，并摇动、转动手表，然后把它们浸入水中。
Casio also tests G-Shock watches by subjecting them to strong sunlight, pulling at them with industrial levers and shooting at them with a 10,000-volt electron gun.
卡西欧还通过其他方式对G-Shock系列手表进行测试——将手表置于强烈日光之下，用工业级倒链拖拉手表，用1万伏特的电子枪对手表进行射击。
Casio executives say another advantage is the longer battery life of its watches. Casio says its watches will run for two years on a single lithium coin battery; rival models need recharging every few days. Experts agree that battery life could be important because users are not used to charging watches frequently.
卡西欧的高管表示，另一项优势在于该公司的手表的电池寿命更长。卡西欧表示，一块硬币式锂电池可以使用两年，而一些竞争对手的手表需要每隔几天就充一次电。专家认同以下观点，即电池寿命的长短可能非常重要，因为使用者不习惯经常给手表充电。
“Casio has done a pretty good job in anticipating the market,” said Serkan Toto, an independent Tokyo-based technology analyst. “But if Apple or Samsung come into this market with better functionality, better design and a better operating system, that would be trouble.”
“卡西欧在市场预测方面做得非常好，”在东京工作的独立技术分析师赛尔坎·托托(Serkan Toto)说。“但如果苹果或三星用具备更强大功能、更好设计及更好的操作系统的手表进入这个市场，那就会有麻烦了。”
Casio is no pushover. Founded by the four Kashio brothers in the ashes of World War II, it is a rare consumer electronics company with roots in computing that has stayed above the wave of commoditization that swamped so many of its peers.
卡西欧也不是软柿子。在商品化浪潮中，拥有计算背景的消费者电子产品公司纷纷沦陷，由樫尾四兄弟在二战废墟中创立的卡西欧，是少数几个存活下来的公司之一。
Its profit margins of close to 20 percent on its G-shock, Baby-G and other rugged digital watches are the envy of the electronics industry here. The brand has enjoyed a surge in popularity since the mid-2000s, thanks in part to deft product placement in movies like “Mission Impossible” and “Men in Black.”
G-Shock系列手表、Baby-G系列手表和其他坚固耐用的电子手表，利润率接近20%，使其成为日本电子产业的忌妒对象。自2005年前后，卡西欧的人气猛涨，部分是因为《碟中谍》(Mission Impossible)、《黑衣人》(Men in Black)等电影中巧妙的产品植入。
More recently, a weaker yen has been a tail wind for the company. Analysts at MorganStanley MUFG expect net profit at Casio to jump almost 30 percent this year to 16.9 billion yen, thanks to brisk G-Shock sales.
在那以后，日元疲软对卡西欧起到了很大帮助。摩根士丹利三菱日联金融集团(Morgan Stanley MUFG)的分析师预计，由于G-Shock系列手表十分畅销，今年卡西欧的净利润提升将近30%，达到169亿日元（约合10.5亿元人民币）。
The founding brothers — the surviving two of whom still lead the company — are themselves the stuff of Japanese management lore. The eldest, Toshio, was the family’s management guru; the second-eldest, Tadao, was behind many of the early inventions, including the first all-electric calculator. The third brother, Kazuo, is the outgoing salesman, and Yukio, the baby of the family and a trained engineer, is in charge of production.
创办公司的兄弟——目前两位健在的创始人仍在领导公司——本身就体现了日本的管理经验。老大樫尾忠雄(Toshio)是家中的管理专家，老二俊雄(Tadao)是很多早期发明的幕后推手，比如首款全电动计算器。老三和雄(Kazuo)是一名外向的销售员，家中的幼子幸雄(Yukio)是一名受过培训的工程师，他负责生产。
In an interview, Yukio Kashio pointed out that the company has won intense product wars before. In the 1960s and 1970s, about 40 companies in Japan jostled for dominance of the hand-held calculator market, then the cutting edge of personal technology, in what is remembered here as the “calculator wars.” But Casio muscled all but archrival Sharp out of the market with nimble product development, the pinnacle of which was its SL-800 calculator, almost as thin as a credit card.
樫尾幸雄在一次采访中指出，该公司之前在激烈的产品大战取得过胜利。在20世纪60、70年代，日本约有40家公司为控制手持计算器市场激烈竞争，这在当时是个人科技的前沿，在日本称为“计算器大战”。但卡西欧通过敏捷的产品研发，把除了夏普(Sharp)之外的所有竞争对手都挤出了这个市场。卡西欧产品开发的顶峰是SL-800计算器，这款计算器差不多像信用卡一样薄。
“Those were simpler times,” Mr. Kashio said. “Still, I don’t think anyone is as passionate about counting numbers, or time, as we are.”
“那都是较为简单的时代，”樫尾和雄说。“不过我仍然认为，没人能像我们一样，对计数或计时如此热衷。”