MOSCOW — The ruble’s value continued to slide on Tuesday despite the Russian central bank’s extraordinary effort to defend it, inducing further panic in the nation’s financial industry and presenting President Vladimir V. Putin with an acute new set of political and economic challenges.
莫斯科——尽管俄罗斯央行非同寻常地大幅加息，卢布在周二仍继续贬值，进一步引发了该国金融业的恐慌，也向总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)提出新一轮的严峻政治和经济挑战。
Scenes that Russians hoped had receded into the past reappeared on the streets: Currency exchange signs blinked ever-changing digits, and Russians rushed to appliance stores to buy washing machines or televisions to unload rubles.
俄罗斯人希望已成为过去的场景在街头重现：货币汇价显示牌上的数字不停地变化，俄罗斯人冲进家电商场，抢购洗衣机和电视，以花掉手里的卢布。
“We are seeing an economic crisis,” Natalia V. Akindinova, a professor at the Higher School of Economics, said in a telephone interview. “We are seeing a sharp devaluation of the ruble at a time when the central bank doesn’t have the reserves to influence the market, as it did in the past crises.”
“我们正在目睹一场经济危机，”经济学高等学院教授纳塔利娅·V·阿金蒂诺娃(Natalia V. Akindinova)在接受电话采访时说。“我们看到卢布在大幅贬值，而央行现在没有足够的储备来影响市场，不像前几次金融危机时那样。”
Despite the decision by the Central Bank of Russia to raise its short-term interest rate in the middle of the night to 17 percent from 10.5 percent, the value of the currency continued to slip on Tuesday after initially showing signs of stabilizing. The interest rate move came after the ruble fell 10 percent on Monday.
尽管俄罗斯中央银行在深夜决定上调短期利率，从10.5%升至17%，但卢布在周二初显趋稳迹象后继续下跌。这次加息行动发生在卢布于周一贬值10%之后。
In afternoon trading, the Russian currency resumed its fall to record lows, with the dollar rising above 79 rubles in spite of the bank’s policy shift.
在下午的交易中，尽管央行做出了政策调整，卢布仍恢复下跌走向，创下新低，使1美元上升到兑换逾79卢布的水平。
Of particular concern in the financial markets were fears that the Kremlin had in effect decided to print money to address a growing debt problem. Worries that the central bank had effectively issued new rubles to prop up the national oil company Rosneft were among the factors that prompted the dramatic sell-off of rubles on Monday.
金融市场尤其担心的是，俄罗斯政府实际上已决定用印发钞票的方式来解决不断扩大的债务问题。周一出现的卢布抛售的原因之一就是担心央行实际上在靠发行新卢布来支撑国有石油公司俄罗斯石油(Rosneft)。
With pressure mounting, the bank appeared to have lapsed into a “policy of printing money,” Ms. Akindinova said, to aid the state oil company pinched by low oil prices and financial sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.
阿金蒂诺娃说，随着压力的增长，俄央行看来已陷入了“印钞政策”，以帮助遭受低油价和乌克兰危价导致的金融制裁挤压的国有石油公司。
Traders suggested that they had been spooked by concerns that the cronyism and opaque insider dealings that have long plagued business here had spread to monetary policy.
货币交易商暗示，他们受到惊吓，是因为担心长期困扰着俄工商业的任人唯亲和不透明的内幕交易，已经蔓延到货币政策方面。
The central bank also increased allotments of dollars to the Russian banking system, to finance the purchase of rubles as part of the effort to stabilize the currency.
央行还增加了俄罗斯银行系统的美元拨款，以提供购买卢布的资金，作为稳定货币努力的一部分。
The interest rate increase and the inflation that comes with a sharp fall in the value of a currency are creating additional pressures on the Russian economy, which has been buffeted by plunging oil prices and the effect of Western sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union on Russia because of its involvement in the Ukraine conflict.
加息以及伴随货币价值急剧下降而来的通货膨胀，给俄罗斯经济造成更大的压力，其经济已经遭到油价暴跌和西方制裁的双重打击，美国和欧洲因俄罗斯卷入乌克兰的冲突而对其采取制裁措施。
A continued fall in the value of the ruble could present Mr. Putin with difficult choices and could make it more difficult to sustain the political support he has enjoyed at home even as his relations with the United States and Europe have frayed.
卢布价值的继续下跌可能会让普京面对艰难的选择，也可能使他在与美国和欧洲的关系分崩离析之际维持自己在国内享有的政治支持变得更难。
Though the fall in the price of oil, a major Russian export commodity, has been whittling away at the ruble for months, oil prices actually ticked up on Monday. The immediate cause of that day’s plunge, analysts say, was word of an opaque deal involving the central bank and the state-controlled oil company, Rosneft.
虽然俄罗斯主要出口商品石油的价格下降导致卢布贬值已有数月，但周一的油价实际上略有上升。分析人士称，导致当天卢布暴跌的直接原因，是一个涉及央行与国家控制的俄罗斯石油公司的不透明交易的消息。
The well-connected business executive running the company, Igor I. Sechin, a longtime associate of Mr. Putin, had apparently persuaded the central bank to effectively issue billions of new rubles to his company to help cover debts.
主持该公司业务的主管伊格尔·I·谢钦(Igor I. Sechin)有深广的人脉，与普京有长期的联系，他看来说服了央行，用实际上向他的公司发行数十亿新卢布的方式，来帮助支付债务。
For months, Rosneft had been clamoring for a government bailout to refinance debt the company ran up while making acquisitions when oil prices were high. Because of sanctions, those loans cannot be rolled over with Western banks.
几个月来，俄罗斯石油公司一直吵着要政府救助，为偿还公司在石油价格处高位时收购而欠下的债务进行再融资。由于制裁，这些贷款不能在西方的银行转期。
Debt payments are coming due later this month. Relying only on the company’s own cash reserves would disrupt oil development projects on which Russia is relying for future revenue.
债务在本月晚些时候即将到期。仅靠公司自己的现金储备会打乱石油开发项目，而俄罗斯的未来收入依赖于这些项目。
With the oil giant in a bind, the central bank ruled that it would accept Rosneft bonds held by commercial banks as collateral for loans.
随着石油巨头陷入困境，央行裁定，它将接受商业银行持有的俄罗斯石油公司的债券作为贷款抵押。
Rosneft issued 625 billion rubles, about $10.9 billion at the exchange rate at the time, in new bonds on Friday. The identities of the buyers were not publicly disclosed, but analysts say that large state banks bought the issue.
俄罗斯石油公司上周五发行了6250亿卢布的新债券，按当时的汇率约合109亿美元。买家的身份没有公开披露，但分析人士表示，大型国有银行购买了这些债券。
When these banks deposit the bonds with the central bank in exchange for loans, Rosneft will have been financed, in effect, with an emission of rubles from the central bank.
当这些银行把债券存入央行以换取贷款时，俄罗斯石油公司将得到融资，实际上相当于从央行拿到了卢布。
The disclosure of the government’s brokered solution for Rosneft shook the market on Monday, apparently because it resembled the practice of so-called monetizing deficits, or printing money, to pad a government budget.
政府为俄罗斯石油公司安排的解决方案的披露，在周一震动了市场，显然是因为它与一个所谓赤字货币化的做法类似，也就是用印钞票来填补政府预算缺口。
Not surprisingly, the ruble, trading at about 57 to the dollar Monday morning, collapsed to 64 rubles to the dollar by the end of the day, its worst one-day sell-off since Russia defaulted on its debts in 1998.
不出所料，卢布在周一早上与美元的兑换价还是57:1，到当天交易结束时已降到64:1，这是自俄罗斯在1998年债务违约以来最糟糕的一日抛售。
The reason for Monday’s currency crash is “well known,” Boris Y. Nemtsov, a former deputy prime minister who is now in the political opposition, wrote on his Facebook page. “The central bank started the printing press to help the Sechin-Putin business, and gave Rosneft 625 billion newly printed rubles. The money immediately appeared on the currency market, and the rate collapsed.”
周一货币大跌的原因“众所周知”，鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)在其Facebook页面上写道，他曾任俄罗斯副总理，现在属于政治反对派。“央行启动印钞机，来帮助谢钦-普京的商业，给了俄罗斯石油公司6250亿新印出来的卢布。新票子马上出现在货币市场，导致汇率崩溃。”
As markets absorbed the Russian news on Tuesday, stocks in Asia ended generally lower and the yen, a refuge currency for investors, hit a four-week high. European stocks overcame early losses to trade higher through midday.
随着市场在周二消化俄罗斯的新闻，亚洲的股市普遍走低，作为投资者避难货币的日元触及四周以来的最高点。欧洲股市克服了早盘失地，在午盘交易中开始走高。
Brent crude oil, an international benchmark, fell $1.96 to $59.25 in midday trading in London on Tuesday.
国际基准布伦特原油在周二伦敦午盘交易中下跌了1.96美元，降至每桶59.25美元。
Before the Rosneft bond issue, the government had indicated to investors that it intended to cut about 500 billion rubles from next year’s budget, in effect reducing ruble liquidity by an amount commensurate with the Rosneft bond issue.
俄罗斯石油公司债券发行前，政府曾向投资者表示，打算将明年的预算削减约5000亿卢布，实际上是将卢布的流动性降低，降低的数额与俄罗斯石油公司发行的债券相称。
In the years of the oil boom, Mr. Putin’s government assumed an ever-larger role in the economy. Longtime associates of Mr. Putin’s from St. Petersburg, his hometown, or from his years in the Soviet intelligence agency the K.G.B., took the helm at huge state-owned enterprises.
在石油繁荣年间，普京政府在经济中发挥着越来越大的作用。来自普京老家圣彼得堡、及其在苏联情报机构克格勃工作时代的长期同事执掌了庞大的国有企业。
All the while, the central bank and a liberal wing of economic policy advisers had remained aloof from the politically driven divvying up of assets.
在这期间，央行和自由派经济政策顾问们一直保持清高，没有参与政治驱动的资产分摊。