BERLIN — The turmoil in the Russian economy appears to be encouraging Moscow to seek compromise in the crisis over Ukraine, although President Vladimir V. Putin has proved so erratic in past months that Western leaders are wary of proclaiming progress, officials and analysts said Wednesday.
柏林——官员和分析人士周三表示，俄罗斯的经济动荡似乎正在鼓励莫斯科就乌克兰危机做出让步，尽管俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)过去几个月的表现让人捉摸不定，以至于西方领导人还不敢轻易宣布取得了进展。
On Sunday and again on Tuesday night — after days in which the ruble gyrated wildly, raising the possibility of a broader financial crisis that could saddle Mr. Putin with deeper economic and political problems — the Russian president spoke by phone with his Ukrainian, German and French counterparts. Statements released afterward in all four capitals talked of moving quickly to cement a cease-fire broadly observed since last week in eastern Ukraine.
周日及周二夜间——在卢布暴跌数日，更大规模的金融危机的可能性加剧，普京也很可能因此面临更严重的经济和政治问题后——普京与乌克兰、德国和法国的国家元首通了电话。四国政府随后发布的声明都提到要迅速行动，巩固上周以来已经大体实现的乌克兰东部停火。
Mr. Putin may make his intentions clearer at his annual news conference on Thursday. European leaders will meet later Thursday and Friday in Brussels amid growing indications that pro-Russian separatists and Ukrainians could meet Sunday or Monday for talks under European auspices.
普京可能会在周四的年度新闻发布会上，更明确地表达自己的意图。欧洲领导人将于周四晚些时候和周五在布鲁塞尔会晤；同时，有越来越多的迹象表明，亲俄罗斯分裂分子和乌克兰方面将在欧洲的协助下，于周日或周一举行会晤。
One wild card is the threat by the United States to move ahead with a new round of sanctions against Russia.
其中一张万能牌就是：美国威胁将对俄罗斯展开新一轮制裁。
The White House said Tuesday that President Obama, despite misgivings about falling out of step with European allies and complicating the talks, would sign newly passed legislation expanding the financial sanctions and providing additional military aid to Ukraine.
白宫周二表示，尽管奥巴马总统担心与欧洲盟国步调不一，并会使谈话变得愈加复杂，但他将签署最近通过的法律，扩大经济制裁范围，为乌克兰提供额外的军事援助。
While leaving the United States at risk of becoming out of step with Europe, which is not seeking tighter sanctions, the new legislation could also help pressure Mr. Putin to seal a deal on Ukraine now that would relieve some of the pressure on the Russian economy.
美国可能会因此与欧洲出现分歧——后者并不打算加强制裁力度——但这项新法规可能会迫使普京就乌克兰问题达成协议。如今，这种协议将在某种程度上减轻俄罗斯经济所面临的压力。
On Tuesday, Secretary of State John Kerry said that sanctions “could be lifted in a matter of weeks or days” depending on how Mr. Putin acts.
周二，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，根据普京的行动，制裁“可能会在几周或几天内解除”。
In Moscow, some analysts said the Kremlin appeared to have started moving toward a more flexible position on Ukraine before the ruble’s nose dive, but the currency crisis of the past few days made progress imperative.
莫斯科的一些分析人士表示，在卢布暴跌之前，克里姆林宫似乎就已经开始采取一种更灵活的立场，但是过去几天的货币危机让取得进展变成了必要起来。
“It seems like the new economic situation will inevitably force Russia to focus on the domestic crisis,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, the editor of the journal Russia in Global Affairs.
《全球事务中的俄罗斯》(Russia in Global Affairs)杂志主编费奥多尔·卢基扬诺夫(Fyodor Lukyanov)表示，“目前看来，新的经济形势必然会迫使俄罗斯专注于国内危机。”
At the same time, Mr. Lukyanov said, Mr. Putin is unlikely to abandon the separatists in eastern Ukraine.
同时，卢基扬诺夫还表示，普京不太可能放弃乌克兰东部的分裂分子。
“Putin’s credibility might be seriously damaged by this economic crisis,” he said. “If in reaction he begins to clearly give up on Ukraine, that will be detrimental to his position, and he cannot afford it.”
“普京的信誉可能会因为此次经济危机而遭到严重破坏，”他说。“如果他开始明确做出放弃乌克兰的反应，这就会给他的立场造成伤害，他也将无法承受这种局面。”
For some days, Russia experts in financial markets have suggested that Mr. Putin might agree to measures that would essentially freeze the conflict in eastern Ukraine, allowing aid into the region and halting hostilities, at least for the winter.
金融市场的俄罗斯专家连日来表示，普京可能会同意停止东乌克兰冲突的措施，至少今年冬天允许援助力量进入该地区，停止敌对状态。
That arrangement would still allow Mr. Putin to claim he was preventing Ukraine from any further move toward the European Union or NATO membership, said Christopher Granville, a Russia expert and managing director of Trusted Sources, an emerging markets research firm in London.
俄罗斯专家、伦敦新兴市场研究公司“可靠来源”咨询公司(Trusted Sources)常务董事克里斯托弗·格兰维尔(Christopher Granville)表示，根据这种安排，普京仍然可以宣称，他是为了防止乌克兰进一步做出任何加入欧盟(European Union)或北约(NATO)的举动。
There is a gap between what Europe and Germany, its No. 1 economy, might want, and voices in Congress in Washington who “behold with satisfaction Putin going down in flames,” Mr. Granville said.
格兰维尔表示，欧洲和该地区第一大经济体德国的希望，与美国国会的愿望存在差别，后者“看到普京陷入困境感到非常满意”。
Europeans have to share a continent with Russia and fear turmoil in the East, he added, noting that severe upheaval in Russia could also “greatly increase the probability of a terminal meltdown in Ukraine” and could be counterproductive for Western supporters of the Ukrainian government in Kiev.
他还表示，欧洲人与俄罗斯共处一个大陆，他们担心东部地区出现骚乱，并指出俄罗斯的严重动荡也可能会“极大地增加乌克兰最终垮台的可能性”，可能会让乌克兰政府的西方支持者得到适得其反的结果。
Ukraine’s currency has also plunged, and the country began an urgent appeal for more funds last week in Brussels.
乌克兰货币也已贬值，该国上周在布鲁塞尔开始紧急呼吁获得更多资金。
Complicating the picture is whether pro-Russian separatists would attend cease-fire talks and whether Mr. Putin would deliver on any promises made there.
亲俄分裂分子是否会参与停火谈判，普京是否会履行在谈判中做出的承诺，这些问题使局势变得更加复杂。
Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s new foreign affairs chief, reported “some limited hope” for a settlement to the conflict in eastern Ukraine based on a repeatedly violated truce agreement reached in September by pro-Russian separatists, Russia and Ukraine in the Belarus capital, Minsk.
欧盟新任外交事务主管费德丽卡·莫盖里尼(Federica Mogherini)称，相关人员多次违反亲俄分裂分子、俄罗斯及乌克兰于9月在白俄罗斯首都明斯克达成的停火协议，她对在该协议的基础上解决冲突的“期待值不高”。
“We have gone through this too many times to fall into illusions about turning points,” she said at a news conference on Monday. “I would not define any turning point at the moment, but still, there is a small reason for hope on which we can build.”
“我们太多次地陷入过幻想，以为会出现转折点的情况，”莫盖里尼在周一举行的新闻发布会上说。“我现在不会划定任何转折点，但仍有一个小理由，让我们对我们能够做的事情抱有希望。”
On a visit to Kiev on Tuesday, Ms. Mogherini pledged full European support for a new Ukrainian government and said the European Union would “stand firmly at your side to make sure the Minsk protocol is implemented firmly in all parts.”
莫盖里尼周二访问基辅时，承诺欧洲会全力支持新乌克兰政府，并表示，欧盟会“坚定地站在你们这一边，确保各方严格执行明斯克协议”。
Michael Thumann, a senior foreign correspondent and Russia expert for the German weekly Die Zeit, said he was skeptical about the prospects for a lasting agreement, given Mr. Putin’s need to appeal to different domestic constituencies at home and his behavior in the past year.
资深驻外记者、德国《时代》周报(Die Zeit)俄罗斯问题专家米夏埃尔·图曼(Michael Thumann)表示，鉴于普京需要取悦国内各个选民阵营，以及普京在过去一年的举动，他对协议是否会持久感到怀疑。
“Putin could try to solve economic problems with a new heroic, patriotic deed,” Mr. Thumann said. “I am not completely pessimistic, but at the moment, I just don’t believe in the durability of his actions.”
“普京可能会试图通过新的英雄式的爱国行为解决经济问题，”图曼说。“我并非完全悲观，但此时此刻，我只是不相信他的行动能持续很长时间。”
This kind of instability, he said, is anathema to German business. “German business is looking at this with great concern,” he said. “It all means nothing good for the Russian market in the near future.”
他表示，德国公司对这种不稳定的情况感到厌烦。“德国公司非常关心这个问题，”他说。“在不久的将来，这对于俄罗斯市场来说不是好事。”
“A destabilization of Russia is in nobody’s interest,” said Eckhard Cordes, chairman of the Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations, a group traditionally pro-business with the Kremlin. “This would also have an impact on us.”
“俄罗斯出现动荡对任何人都没有好处，”东欧经济关系委员会(Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations)主席艾克哈德·科德斯(Eckhard Cordes)说。“也会对我们造成影响。”该委员会历来支持与克里姆林宫加强商业往来。