Twenty years ago this Saturday, the commander of United Nations peacekeeping forces in Rwanda wrote a coded cable to his superiors in New York that has come to be known as the “genocide fax.” Citing inside information from a “top-level trainer” for a pro-regime militia group, Brig. Gen. Roméo Dallaire warned of an “anti-Tutsi extermination” plot.
20年前的这个周六，联合国(United Nations)驻卢旺达维和部队的指挥官给他在纽约的长官写了一封加密电文，这份电文便是人们后来所知的“种族灭绝传真”。罗密欧·达莱雷准将(Brig. Gen. Roméo Dallaire)援引一个支持军政府的民兵组织的“高层教官”提供的内部信息说，要小心“反图西人的种族灭绝”阴谋。
The refusal by United Nations officials to approve the general’s plan for raids on suspected arms caches has been widely condemned as paving the way for one of the worst genocides since the Holocaust. But evidence submitted to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, some of it still under seal, reveals a murkier, more complicated situation than has often been portrayed.
人们纷纷谴责称，正是由于联合国官员拒绝批准这名将军搜查可疑武器存放点的计划，才为二战大屠杀后最严重的种族灭绝事件铺平了道路。但是，递交给卢旺达国际刑事法庭(International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda)的证据——有些证据仍属机密——表明，事情远比人们所说的更隐晦、更复杂。
New details about the mysterious informant known to General Dallaire as “Jean-Pierre” serve as a reminder that history can take a long time to reveal its secrets. Important documents that could shed light on the unresolved mysteries and ambiguities of the Rwanda genocide remain under lock and key.
达莱雷准将只知道那位神秘的泄密者被称作“让-皮埃”(Jean-Pierre)，关于此人的新信息告诉人们，历史可能要花很长时间才会暴露自己的秘密。有些能够揭露卢旺达大屠杀未解之谜的重要材料仍属机密。
It is now commonly recognized that the international community failed miserably in its efforts to protect the people of Rwanda. But even 20 years later, there is still much to learn. While the new evidence does not absolve the United Nations and Western governments for failing to take timely action, Jean-Pierre’s story illustrates the challenges that continue to vex decision-makers struggling to make sense of unfolding crises in countries like the Central African Republic or South Sudan.
目前，人们普遍认为，国际社会在保护卢旺达人民方面非常失败。但是即便20年后，还是有很多地方有待了解。虽然新的证据并不能将联合国和西方政府未能及时采取行动的过错一笔勾销，但是让-皮埃的故事表明，对于中非共和国或南苏丹等国家所披露出的危机，那些试图理解前因后果的人仍然要面对很多挑战。
The immediate trigger for the Rwandan genocide was the shooting down of a plane carrying President Juvenal Habyarimana on April 6, 1994. Over the next hundred days, Hutu militia groups murdered at least half a million members of the Tutsi minority, along with tens of thousands of “moderate” Hutus. These massacres took place against the backdrop of a war that pitted the Hutu-dominated regime against Tutsi-led insurgents who had invaded Rwanda from neighboring Uganda.
1994年4月6日，总统朱韦纳尔·哈比亚利马纳(Juvenal Habyarimana)乘坐的飞机被击落，该事件成了卢旺达大屠杀的直接导火索。在接下来的100多天里，胡图(Hutu)激进组织杀害了至少50万图西少数民族以及数万名胡图“温和派”。这些屠杀发生的背景是一场战争——图西人领导的叛乱组织从邻国乌干达对卢旺达发动了侵略，于是胡图人占主导的政府便与图西人陷入了势不两立的局面。
Whether the genocide was planned, and was thus foreseeable, has been hotly debated by scholars, politicians and lawyers. The “genocide fax” has been a key part of this debate. Controversy has surrounded Jean-Pierre’s motives for cooperating with General Dallaire, the reliability of his information, and his fate after his request for protection was rejected by the United Nations.
究竟这场屠杀是否因为经过策划而具有可预见性，学者、政治人士和律师进行了热烈的讨论。“种族灭绝传真”一直是这场争论的关键内容。关于让-皮埃与达莱雷准将合作的动机、他所提供的信息是否可靠，以及在联合国拒绝他的庇护请求后他的命运如何，都存在很多争议。
We now know a lot more about Jean-Pierre Abubakar Turatsinze (his full name was established by the war crimes tribunal). Half-Hutu and half-Tutsi, he operated on both sides of Rwanda’s political and ethnic divide. While his prediction of mass murder of Tutsis by Hutu militia groups proved chillingly accurate, he misled United Nations peacekeepers on some key points.
现在，我们对让-皮埃·阿布巴卡尔·图拉欣泽(Jean-Pierre Abubakar Turatsinze)有了更多了解（他的全名由国际刑事法庭提供）。他拥有一半胡图血统和一半图西血统，在卢旺达因为政治和种族而产生分歧的两派，和他都有关联。虽然事实证明，他对胡图激进组织屠杀图西人的预测具有惊人的准确性，但他也在一些关键点上误导了联合国维和人员。
Important details about his background and eventual fate are contained in a 2003 interview with his wife by tribunal investigators that has never been officially released but is now available. At the time of his marriage, in 1990, he worked as a driver for a senior Rwandan official. In the turmoil following the rebel invasion, Jean-Pierre used his connections to become an intermediary to the Interahamwe militia, whose principal goal was to defend the Hutu-dominated regime.
2003年，法院调查人员对他的妻子进行了问讯，并了解了关于他的背景以及最终命运的一些重要细节。这些内容从未正式公布过，但现已公开。1990年他结婚的那年，他在给一名卢旺达高官当司机。反对派的入侵带来了骚动，让-皮埃则利用他的关系成了联攻派民兵(Interahamwe)组织的协调人。联攻派民兵组织最重要的目标就是保卫胡图人占主导的军政府。
Curiously, the fact that he was married to a Tutsi and was the product of a mixed Tutsi-Hutu marriage does not seem to have affected his advancement in the Interahamwe, at least until the end of 1993. Around this time, he told his wife that he might have to kill her because the ruling party was planning to carry out “massacres.” As she told investigators, “because I am Tutsi and his mother was Tutsi, I understood this to mean that the massacres were going to be against the Tutsi population.”
他与图西人结合，本身又是图西人与胡图人婚姻的结果；令人惊奇的是，这个事实似乎并没有影响他在联攻派民兵组织的晋升，至少在1993年以前是这样。这段时间，他曾告诉妻子他可能会杀了她，因为执政党正在计划开展“大屠杀”。她告诉调查者，“因为我是图西人，他的母亲也是图西人，我马上明白这意味着大屠杀应该是针对图西人的。”
Jean-Pierre told General Dallaire’s aides in January 1994 that he had been instructed to register “all Tutsis” living in Kigali, apparently for “their extermination.” He also said that the Rwandan Army had been supplying the Interahamwe with weapons, and identified several arms caches, including one in the headquarters of the ruling party. The Interahamwe went on to commit many of the murders during the genocide.
1994年1月，让-皮埃告诉达莱雷准将的助手，有人指示他对住在基加利(Kigali)的“所有图西人”进行登记，这明显是为“种族灭绝”准备的。他还说，卢旺达军队一直在为联攻派民兵组织提供武器，并指出了几处武器存放处，其中一个位于执政党的总部。联攻派民兵组织在大屠杀中杀害了许多人。
The Arusha-based international tribunal has found that the Rwandan Army channeled weapons to the Interahamwe and provided military training to militia members. But tribunal judges were not convinced that the purpose of that training was the “extermination” of Tutsis, as Jean-Pierre claimed, rather than preparation for renewed hostilities with the Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic Front. They found that the Interahamwe had drawn up lists of “suspected opponents of the regime,” but such lists were “not focused exclusively on ethnicity.”
驻阿鲁沙国际法庭发现，卢旺达军队向联攻派民兵组织输送了许多武器，而且还在为武装人员提供军事训练。但是，法庭的法官并不认为前述训练的目的是像让-皮埃所说的那样，要将图西人“赶尽杀绝”，而是为了防备由图西人领导的卢旺达爱国阵线（Rwandan Patriotic Front，简称RPF），因为双方冲突出现进一步升级。他们认为，联攻派民兵组织起草了“反对政府嫌疑人”的名单，但是这样的名单“并非完全是按照种族拟定的”。
Evidence submitted to the tribunal showed that Jean-Pierre may have had other motives for seeking United Nations protection. He had fallen out with party leaders who suspected him of selling arms to rebels in Burundi. Some witnesses believe he might have been an agent of the Rwandan Patriotic Front assigned to penetrate the Interahamwe.
递交给法庭的证据显示，让-皮埃之所以向联合国寻求保护，或许还存在其他原因。由于政党领导人怀疑他曾偷偷向布隆迪的反对派销售武器，他与领导人发生了冲突。有些目击者认为，他或许是卢旺达爱国阵线派来潜入联攻派民兵组织的特工。
While there is no reliable evidence to back the claim that he was an R.P.F. agent in January 1994, it is clear that he had connections to opposition parties allied with the Tutsi-led rebels. According to United Nations cables, a Hutu opposition leader named Faustin Twagiramungu served as Jean-Pierre’s conduit to General Dallaire. These connections caused French and Belgian analysts to suspect that Jean-Pierre might be spreading “disinformation.”
1994年1月，虽然没有可靠证据能够证明他是RPF特工，但是我们清楚，他与一些反对派政党有关联，而这些政党和图西人领导的反叛组织是结盟的。根据联合国电文，一个名叫福斯坦·图瓦吉拉蒙古(Faustin Twagiramungu)的胡图反对派领袖曾作为让-皮埃的信使，向达莱雷准将传达信息。这些联系促使法国和比利时分析人士怀疑，让-皮埃可能在传播“虚假信息”。
In his 2003 memoir, “Shake Hands With the Devil,” General Dallaire raised the possibility that his informant had “simply melted back into the Interahamwe, angry and disillusioned at our vacillation and ineffectiveness, and become a genocidaire.” Jean-Pierre told the general’s aides at their final meeting in February 1994 that he was planning to go to Zaire, for “commando training.”
达莱雷准将在2003年的回忆录《与恶魔握手》(Shake Hands With the Devil)中提出，他的这位线人可能“就是向联攻派民兵组织投诚了，对我们的踌躇和低效率感到愤怒和失望，然后便加入了屠杀”。让-皮埃在1994年1月的最后见面中告诉将军的助手，他打算前往泽尔(Zaire)去参加“突击队训练”。
Instead, he went to Tanzania where he joined the R.P.F., according to his wife. In late March, two weeks before the president’s assassination, he moved to a rebel-held enclave in northern Rwanda, where he was reported to be “in very good books with senior members of the R.P.F.” In late 1994, a minister in Rwanda’s new Tutsi-led government informed the family that Jean-Pierre had been “killed in battle.”
但是据他妻子讲述，他后来去坦桑尼亚加入了RPF。3月末，也就是总统遭到暗杀的两周前，他搬到了反对派在北卢旺达的包围区，据称他在那里时，“与RPF的高级成员关系友好”。1994年末，卢旺达由图西人领导的新政府的一名大臣通知让-皮埃的家人，让-皮埃已经“阵亡”。
The circumstances of his death remain a mystery. As his wife told investigators, “I do not know how he died and where.” She was unable even to establish whether he was “surely dead.”
他是怎么死的，目前仍然是个谜。他的妻子告诉调查人员，“我不知道他是怎么死的，死于哪里。”她甚至无法确定他“已经死亡”。
General Dallaire has told the tribunal that he operated on “instinct” in sending the genocide fax, which was followed up by a series of warnings to New York in early 1994 that were rebuffed or ignored. He sensed that the peacekeeping force had to reassert its authority. But his superiors in New York needed something more than their field commander’s instincts to justify aggressive action.
达莱雷准将告诉法庭，发送关于种族屠杀的传真时，他完全是在按“直觉”行事；1994年，又有一系列警告传到纽约，但这些消息不是遭到否认就是被忽视了。他觉得维和部队必须重新建立威信。但是，他的那些在纽约的上司认为，只有当地指挥官的直觉是不够的，还需要其他东西来证明有采取攻击性行动的必要。
Newly released State Department records show that United Nations officials briefed the United States, Belgium and France on the emerging crisis, but there was zero enthusiasm in the Clinton administration following the “Black Hawk Down” debacle in Somalia in October 1993. Much stronger intelligence would have been necessary to disrupt the passivity of senior decision makers.
新发布的国务院(State Department)记录显示，联合国官员已经告诉美国、比利时和法国即将出现危机，但是克林顿政府丝毫没有重演1993年10月索马里“黑鹰坠落”(Black Hawk Down)那种灾难的热情。如果要使高层决策者变得不那么被动，还需要更有说服力的情报。
The “Jean-Pierre” revelations are a tantalizing indication of how much we still have to learn about the Rwandan genocide. Records that could shed light on whether it could have been prevented are still classified in Washington, New York, Paris, Brussels, Geneva, Arusha and Kigali — unavailable to the public despite pledges by international leaders to fully investigate the tragedy. In order to draw the correct lessons from history, we must first establish all the facts.
“让-皮埃”透露的消息引起了人们的好奇，也说明还有许多关于卢旺达大屠杀的消息需要我们去了解。有些记录能够说明这场屠杀是否原本能被阻止，但这些材料仍作为机密保存在华盛顿、纽约、巴黎、布鲁塞尔、日内瓦、阿鲁沙和基加利——虽然各国领导人承诺要对这场悲剧进行全面调查，但是公众仍无法获知相关讯息。为了从历史中获取正确的教训，我们首先必须落实所有的事实。