LUHANSK, Ukraine — Every night, as darkness falls over Luhansk, the focus now of intense humanitarian concern and geopolitical intrigue, a cat-and-mouse artillery duel begins.
乌克兰卢甘斯克——如今，卢甘斯克受到了密切的人道主义关注，它也是地缘政治阴谋的中心。每天晚上，随着夜幕的降临，这里都会上演猫鼠游戏一般的炮火对决。
In a neighborhood of high-rise apartments, residents can readily identify the hollow pops of mortars as they echo among the buildings. After that, rebel fighters can be seen hastily dismantling the weapons and hauling them away.
在一个由高层公寓楼组成的社区里，当迫击炮的声音在大楼之间回响时，居民能迅速分辨出那些空洞而沉闷的砰砰声。随后，他们会看到叛军匆匆忙忙地拆卸武器，将其拖走。
An hour or so later, the Ukrainian military’s response comes: the whistle and boom of incoming artillery shells, fired from guns outside the city, in a fruitless attempt at silencing the rebel gunners.
大约一个小时后，乌克兰政府军开始回应：城外的枪炮发射的子弹炮弹，带着尖啸声和轰鸣声打了进来，企图让反对派炮手保持安静，但却毫无效果。
Ukraine and Russia are now jousting over Moscow’s intent to send a 260-truck convoy of aid to Luhansk to relieve what President Vladimir V. Putin called in a speech on Thursday a “major humanitarian catastrophe” here.
莫斯科试图派遣一支由260辆卡车组成的救援车队进入卢甘斯克，缓解俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在周四的讲话中所说的“重大人道主义灾难”。目前，乌克兰和俄罗斯正因此事而相持不下。
But to people standing in the bread and water lines that snake through the streets, life here is tough but far from catastrophic. In the predawn, the city comes alive with pedestrians carrying plastic water bottles, headed for the working fountains and grocery stores, on the assumption that fewer shells land early in the morning. One grocery had noodles, gum, sugar, eggs and vodka.
然而，对于站在街头蜿蜒的长队中，等着领取面包和水的人来说，这里的生活艰苦，却也远远不到灾难的地步。黎明前，人们拿着塑料水瓶前往仍在喷水的喷泉，或是走向食杂店。这些行人让这座城市恢复了生气。他们认为，清晨射来的炮弹会少一些。一家食杂店里的货品有面条、口香糖、糖、鸡蛋和伏特加。
The only relief most people here seek is from the shelling, which goes on night and day.
这里的大部分人唯一希望缓解的，是日夜不停的炮击。
On the main boulevard, rebels tear about in trucks mounted with Grad rocket launchers, moving from one site to another inside the city, to avoid the inevitable return fire.
在卢甘斯克的主干道上，叛乱分子坐着载有格拉德型(Grad)火箭弹发射器的卡车飞驰，在市内从一个地方转移到另一个地方，防止被不可避免的还击打中。
The Ukrainian forces are in the countryside all about, dug into positions in the open steppe. In their trenches and armored vehicles, they are all but impervious to even the most intensive rebel shelling.
在乡下，到处都是政府军士兵，他们在开阔的大草原上挖开了阵地。哪怕是叛乱分子最猛烈的炮击，也无法伤到这些身在战壕里和装甲车上的士兵。
“If one side shoots from one place, then their opponent will shoot back at that place,” Dr. Gennady M. Buniyev, the director of a trauma ward here, said, choosing his words carefully and insisting on his neutrality in the conflict, as the windows of his office shook from outgoing rounds.
“如果一方从某个地方开火，对方就会朝那个地方还击，”在这里的一间创伤病房担任主任的根纳季·M·布尼耶夫(Gennady M. Buniyev)医生说。他小心地选择自己的用词，并坚称自己在这场冲突中持中立态度。而此时，他办公室的窗户也在随着接连不断的炮击而抖动。
The mortar crew operating inside the city in areas controlled by the Luhansk People’s Republic, a separatist group, was firing from just outside the walls of the hospital grounds.
迫击炮队在市内由分裂团体卢甘斯克人民共和国(Luhansk People’s Republic)控制的区域活动，他们当时正在医院墙外发射炮弹。
In response this week, two rockets fired from Ukrainian-held territory smashed into the hospital yard, landing near a maternity ward and a storage shed for oxygen bottles. Fortunately, the oxygen did not ignite.
在本周的回击中，从乌克兰政府军控制的区域发射的两枚火箭弹冲入医院，落到了产科病房和氧气瓶库房附近。幸运的是，氧气瓶没有爆炸。
“If it blew up, the whole hospital would have gone with it,” Dr. Buniyev said.
布尼耶夫说， “如果爆炸了，整个医院都会被炸毁。”
The shelling has gone on for so long now, and the destruction is so widespread, that it is hard to know where the latest rounds landed in some neighborhoods, where blown-out glass, sheared tree limbs and craters are general.
炮击持续了很长时间，造成了范围很广的破坏，所以很难知道最近发射的一些炮弹落到了社区里的哪片区域，因为爆裂的玻璃、断裂的树枝，以及弹坑比比皆是。
Polina Ivanova, a resident of one ravaged area, was sympathetic to the rebel mortar crew. “Look how many civilians are dying,” she said. “They are trying to protect us, and they have nowhere else to fire from. We are surrounded.”
波利娜·伊万诺娃(Polina Ivanova)居住在遭到破坏的区域，她支持叛军的迫击炮手。“看看死了多少平民，”她说。“他们在努力保护我们，他们没有其他可以开炮的地方了。我们被包围了。”
She stood on a stoop in the predawn with Ekaterina Vladimirova, a neighbor who had a different opinion. “Both sides don’t care about us,” Ms. Vladimirova said. “For them, it’s a game. One shoots that way, the other shoots this way, and simple people suffer.”
黎明时分，她和邻居叶卡捷琳娜·弗拉迪米罗娃 (Ekaterina Vladimirova)站在门前的台阶上。弗拉迪米罗娃有不同的看法。“双方都不在意我们，”她说。“对于他们来说，这是一场比赛。一方朝那边打，另一方朝这边打，受苦的只有老百姓。”
Oleg Romanov, 29, said he huddled in terror with his wife and 1-year-old son in an apartment while “it booms all night long, and plaster falls from the ceiling.” He then rises at 4 a.m. to take his place in a line for water, and make the rounds of stores to hunt for groceries.
29岁的奥列格·罗曼诺夫(Oleg Romanov)表示，“炮击声持续了一整夜，石膏都从天花板上掉下来了”，他和妻子，还有一岁的儿子躲在屋里，非常害怕。他早上4点起床，排队打水，来来回回跑几家商店买食物。