Analysts peering at satellite images of North Korea after the latest nuclear test reported Tuesday that they had spotted many landslides and wide disturbances at the country’s test site, in the North’s mountainous wilds. Tunnels for the nuclear blasts are deep inside Mount Mantap, a mile-high peak.
在朝鲜最近一次核试验后，研究卫星图像的分析人士周二通报称，他们在位于朝鲜偏远山区的试验场发现了很多塌方和广泛的扰动。用于核爆的隧道位于一英里（约合1600米）高的万塔山(Mount Mantap)地下深处。
“These disturbances are more numerous and widespread than what we have seen from any of the five tests North Korea previously conducted,” three experts wrote in an analysis for 38 North, a website run by the U.S.-Korea Institute of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.
“这些扰动比我们在朝鲜之前进行的五次试验中的任何一次后看到的都更多，面积更大，”三位专家在为约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际问题研究院美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)运营的网站北纬38度(38 North)撰写的一篇分析文章中写道。
Early readings from global networks that monitor shock waves suggest that the nuclear blast on Sunday had a destructive power equal to 120,000 tons of high explosives. If correct, that is roughly six times more powerful than the North’s test of September 2016, and eight times larger than the bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945.
全球冲击波监测网络的初步读数显示，周日那场核爆的破坏力相当于12万吨高能炸药。如果没错的话，这大致是朝鲜在2016年9月进行的那次试验的六倍，是1945年从广岛上空投下的那枚炸弹的八倍。
The new satellite images of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site were taken Monday, the day after the nuclear detonation. Planet, a company in San Francisco that owns swarms of tiny satellites, reconnoitered the secretive nuclear test site.
丰溪里(Punggye-ri)核试验场这批新的卫星图片是在周一，也就是核爆后的第二天拍摄的。拥有大量小卫星的旧金山公司行星(Planet)对这个神秘的核试验基地进行了侦查。
The three analysts — Frank V. Pabian, Joseph S. Bermudez Jr., and Jack Liu — said the wide disturbances appeared to include numerous landslides throughout the rugged site “and beyond.”
三位分析师——弗兰克·V·帕比安(Frank V. Pabian)、小约瑟夫·S·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr.)和杰克·刘(Jack Liu)——表示，分布广泛的扰动似乎包括整个地势崎岖的发射场“及其他地区”的很多塌方。
They added that they could find no evidence of a surface crater that would have formed if the cavern carved out within the mountain by the blast’s violence and high temperatures had suddenly collapsed.
他们接着表示没有发现地面出现大坑的证据。如果爆炸的威力和高温导致山体内部出现的大洞突然坍塌，地表应该会形成一个大坑。
Shortly after the detonation on Sunday, the global networks detected a smaller shock wave. Some analysts suggested it was caused by a collapse that might have produced a surface crater.
周日的爆炸发生后不久，全球监测网络监测到的冲击波较小。一些分析人士曾表示，产生这些冲击波的坍塌可能会造成地表出现一个坑。