North Korea appears to have doubled the size of the area used to enrich uranium at its Yongbyon reactor complex in recent months, a proliferation monitoring group reported Wednesday, raising new concerns that the country could increase production of weapons-grade fuel — even as it says it wants to relax tensions with South Korea and the United States.
本周三，一个核扩散监督组织宣称，最近几个月，朝鲜似乎把宁边核反应堆里用于浓缩铀燃料的场地面积扩大了一倍，这条消息引发了外界的新忧虑，即朝鲜可能加大武器级燃料的生产，尽管它同时表示要缓解与韩国和美国的紧张关系。
The monitoring group, the Institute for Science and International Security in Washington, said its calculation was based on comparative satellite imagery of the Yongbyon complex. The uranium-enrichment building, in an image taken on June 10, showed an expansion of roughly the same length and width as the original size of the building, from construction that apparently had begun in March, the institute said in a study posted on its Web site.
这家监督组织是位于华盛顿的科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)，它说自己的推断依据的是宁边核反应堆的卫星对比图像。研究所在发布于该所网站的研究结果中说，在今年6月10日拍摄的图片中，铀浓缩厂房扩建部分的长度和宽度大体和原来的厂房相等，此次扩建似乎始于今年3月。
That means the expansion would have begun shortly before North Korea announced in April that it planned to restart a mothballed nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and that it intended to use the uranium enrichment facilities there to make weapons. The announcement came when tensions with South Korea and the United States were escalating in the aftermath of the North’s third nuclear test. Previously, North Korea had insisted the Yongbyon plant was for only civilian energy purposes.
朝鲜曾于今年4月宣布，计划重启被封存的宁边核反应堆。该所公布的结果意味着扩建工作在朝鲜前述声明之前不久已经开始，还意味着朝鲜打算利用那里的铀浓缩设施制造武器。朝鲜宣布重启宁边核反应堆时，朝韩和朝美之间的紧张关系正因朝鲜第三次核试验的余波而不断升级。此前，朝鲜坚称宁边核反应堆只会用于民用能源目的。
“This announcement may have been partially intended as an oblique effort to reveal this new construction, one missed publicly at the time,” wrote the authors of the satellite study, David Albright and Robert Avagyan.
卫星图像研究的作者戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)和罗伯特·阿瓦扬(Robert Avagyan)写道，“朝鲜宣布这条消息，部分的意图可能是以隐晦的方式披露此次的新扩建任务，那个时候，新扩建的消息没有出现在公众视野里。”
Efforts to reach North Korean officials for comment were not immediately successful. The telephone went unanswered at the country’s United Nations mission, its main point of contact in the United States.
采访朝鲜官员的努力没有得到及时回应。朝鲜驻联合国(United Nations)代表团的电话无人接听，该代表团是朝鲜与美国之间主要的联络机构。
Other proliferation experts who viewed the satellite imagery concurred that North Korea seemed to have doubled the size of its enrichment centrifuge hall.
查看了卫星图像的其他核扩散专家一致认为，朝鲜似乎已经把浓缩离心室的面积扩大了一倍。
“There is not a lot of reason to expand the building otherwise, unless they wanted a really spacious visitors’ lounge,” said Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies.
蒙特雷国际研究院(Monterey Institute of International Studies)东亚核不扩散项目(East Asia Nonproliferation Program)主任杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)说，“他们就没有太多别的理由扩建厂房，除非他们想要一间真正宽敞的访客休息室。”
Based on North Korea’s own assertion that the original uranium enrichment building housed 2,000 centrifuges, the study said, the expanded building could hold 4,000. By that calculation, it said, North Korea could produce 16 to 68 kilograms of weapons-grade uranium per year, although at least some centrifuges might be used to produce low-enriched uranium needed for the country’s experimental light water reactor.
研究说，鉴于朝鲜自己坚称原来的铀浓缩室容纳了2000台离心机，扩建后的离心室应该能够容纳4000台。研究说，据此计算，朝鲜每年能够生产16到68公斤的武器级铀燃料，尽管至少有一部分离心机可能会被用于生产低浓缩的铀，以满足该国试验性的轻水反应堆的需求。
“A more realistic estimate,” the study concluded, is that the doubling of capacity would enable North Korea to produce enough weapons-grade uranium per year for two nuclear weapons.
研究总结道，“一个更加合乎实际的推测是”，翻倍的容积让朝鲜每年都能够生产足以配备两枚核武器的武器级铀燃料。
Although the new Yongbyon construction was not a complete surprise, Mr. Lewis said it suggested that North Korea had developed ways of producing specialty metals and other components needed for centrifuge construction. United Nations sanctions on North Korea have crimped its ability to procure such material abroad.
刘易斯说，宁边的扩建工程并非完全出人意料，但它还是表明，朝鲜已经研制出了生产特种金属和制造离心机所需的其他部件的方法。联合国对朝鲜的制裁遏制了朝鲜从国外采购此类原料的能力。
“My concern is that they’re expanding the site without us seeing the procurements,” Mr. Lewis said. “They’re expanding this facility in the face of these sanctions. It looks like they were able to do this without buying more stuff.”
刘易斯说，“我的担忧是，他们扩建了场地，我们却并未见到他们采购材料。即使面对制裁，他们仍然扩建了核设施。看上去，似乎他们能够在不购买更多材料的情况下做到这一点。”
The satellite study’s implications risked inflaming tensions with North Korea’s adversaries just as the country says it is trying to calm them down.
朝鲜刚刚表示自己正在设法缓和与美国之间的紧张关系，卫星图像研究暗含的玄机却可能会激化这对敌手之间的紧张关系。
The study was issued on the same day that North Korea said it would reopen the Kaesong industrial complex, a rare symbol of cooperation with South Korea that the North shut down four months ago.
在研究公布的当天，朝鲜称该国将会重新开放开城工业园(Kaesong Industrial Complex)。该工业园是朝韩合作的罕见象征，四个月前被朝鲜关闭。
The North Korean government also proposed new talks with the South, to start next week, on the future of the complex, where 53,000 North Koreans were employed by South Korean companies. It also pledged to guarantee the safety of South Korean managers who run the complex.
朝鲜政府还提议，从下周开始就开城工业园的前途与韩国开展谈判。开城工业园中有5.3万朝鲜工人受雇于韩国公司。朝鲜还承诺保障运营该工业园的韩国管理人员的安全。
Relations between North and South hit a low over the winter when the North’s detonation of a nuclear device led to tough new sanctions by the United Nations against the country.
朝韩关系在上个冬季降到最低点，原因是朝鲜进行了核试验，致使联合国(United Nations)对朝鲜实施了严厉的新制裁。
Since that nuclear test, North Korea’s main ally and benefactor, China, has increased pressure on the North to modify its behavior and return to talks about its nuclear program’s future.
那次核试验之后，朝鲜的主要盟友和支持者中国也加大了对朝鲜的压力，要求其改变行为，重返关于其核计划未来的谈判。
In addition to the costly sanctions, the North has lost badly needed hard currency earned by its workers at the Kaesong complex.
除了联合国制裁带来的巨大损失之外，朝鲜还失去了开城工业园几万朝鲜工人挣来的该国急需的硬通货。
South Korean officials welcomed the offer of talks over the complex.
韩国官员对谈判提议表示欢迎。
“We hope the North will engage in dialogue in an earnest manner that can contribute to the constructive growth of the complex,” said Kim Hyung-suk, a Unification Ministry spokesman.
韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)发言人金炯锡(Kim Hyung-suk)表示，“我们希望朝鲜以认真的态度参与谈判，认真的态度有助于工业园的建设性发展。”
The complex, where companies make consumer goods using capital and technology provided by the South and a work force mainly from the North, has been closed since April 8. Talks last month by the two countries failed to reopen it.
开城工业园自4月8日以来一直处于关闭状态，之前，工业园的公司一直在制造各种消费产品，资金和技术来自韩国，劳动力则主要来自朝鲜。上个月，朝韩两国重启工业园的谈判以失败告终。
A major issue in the talks had been the South’s demand that the North take responsibility for the damage caused by the abrupt shutdown of the complex’s factories. The North attributed the failure of the talks to what it said was the South’s confrontational attitude.
谈判中遇到的一个主要问题是，韩国要求朝鲜为突然关闭工业园工厂带来的损失负责。朝鲜则称，谈判失败是因为韩国的对抗态度。
In withdrawing its workers from the complex, North Korea blamed tensions that it said had been caused by joint American-South Korean military exercises. The South later withdrew its own citizens from the complex over the stalemate.
在撤出该工业园内的工人时，朝鲜曾表示，这么做是因为美韩联合军演导致局势升级。由于双方继续僵持，韩国后来也撤出了工业园中的韩国公民。
North Korea’s announcement of the reopening of Kaesong came shortly after the South said it had authorized $251 million in payments to South Korean companies whose operations at Kaesong were disrupted. The money will go to companies operating in the complex and to those that provided services to them.
在朝鲜宣布重启开城工业园之前不久，韩国称该国已批准给开城工业园中中断经营的韩国公司支付2.51亿美元（约合15.4亿元人民币）的款项。这笔钱将会付给在工业园内运营的公司，以及那些为园内公司提供服务的公司。
The payments may have helped ease the concerns of South Korean business executives who worry about the viability of the complex, given the North’s unpredictable behavior under its new leader, Kim Jong-un, whose government threatened at the height of the tensions to use its nuclear weapons against the United States.
这笔款项或许有助于减轻韩国企业高管的担忧，鉴于朝鲜在新领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)执政后的反复无常表现，高管们担心工业园的可行性受到影响。在局势最紧张的时候，朝鲜政府曾发出要对美国使用核武器的威胁。