SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has increased activity at its main underground nuclear test site, digging new tunnel entrances in what could be preparations for another nuclear test, a Washington-based research institute reported Thursday.
韩国首尔——华盛顿的一家研究机构周四报称，朝鲜增加了主要地下核试验基地的活动力度，正在挖掘新的隧道入口，或许是在为又一次核试验做准备。
The U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, which based its conclusion on analysis of commercial satellite images of the site in Punggye-ri in northeastern North Korea, said there was no sign that a test was imminent.
约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute)得出上述结论，依据是对朝鲜东北丰溪里(Punggye-ri)基地商业卫星图像的分析。研究所称，尚无迹象表明核试验即将发生。
The report came a day after North Korea’s Foreign Ministry reaffirmed that the isolated country would continue to expand its nuclear arsenal, despite warnings from the United States that it will not engage in the dialogue that Pyongyang is seeking until the North moves toward denuclearization.
在报告发布的前一天，孤立国家朝鲜的外交部再次表示本国将继续扩充核武库，虽然美国曾发出警告，除非朝鲜采取无核化举措，美国不会参与朝鲜政府希望展开的对话。
North Korea is believed to have recently restarted a reactor at its main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang, which would revive the country’s main source of fuel for nuclear weapons, plutonium. Pyongyang is also believed to be expanding its uranium enrichment capabilities, which would provide it with an alternative fuel source for nuclear arms.
据信，朝鲜最近重启了其主要核设施的一个反应堆，由此重启了该国核武器燃料钚的主要来源。该核设施位于平壤以北的宁边。平壤方面据信也正在提高铀浓缩能力，由此将拥有另一种核武器燃料来源。
North Korea has conducted three underground nuclear tests, triggering United Nations sanctions, in 2006, 2009 and last February, all at the Punggye-ri site. The yield of the detonations has increased with each test, but international experts have disputed North Korea’s repeated implication that it has succeeded in making its bombs small and sophisticated enough for missile delivery. North Korea is also attempting to develop intercontinental ballistic missiles.
朝鲜的三次地下核试验都是在丰溪里进行的，时间分别为2006年、2009年和今年2月，这些试验已招致联合国(United Nations)的制裁。核试验的爆炸威力逐次增加，朝鲜也反复表示，它已经成功缩小了炸弹体积，增加了炸弹的精密程度，目前已经能够用于导弹发射，但国际专家并不同意这种说法。朝鲜还试图研制洲际弹道导弹。
Speaking last month at a forum at the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul, Li Bin, a Chinese arms control expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said he believed that North Korea had detonated a miniaturized nuclear device in its first test. But after that detonation failed to reach a normal yield, he said, the country had to increase the size of its bombs in order to boost the yield in the subsequent tests. “The size of its reliable device today is still too big for missile delivery,” he said.
上个月，卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的华裔武器控制专家李彬在首尔峨山政策研究院(Asan Institute for Policy Studies)的论坛上说，他认为，朝鲜在第一次核试验中就已经引爆了一个小型化的核装置。他说，但那次爆炸没能达到正常威力，朝鲜不得不增加炸弹体积，以便在随后的试验中提高炸弹威力。他说，“目前，性能稳定的朝鲜装置体积仍然过大，不适于导弹发射。”
On Thursday, the U.S.-Korea Institute said that satellite photos as recent as Sept. 27 showed two new tunnel entrances at Punggye-ri, as well as growing piles of dirt. This suggested that the North might be digging new tunnels for nuclear tests, or it might be building a connection to existing tunnels, the report said. The North also appeared to be upgrading its support facilities in the area, the institute said.
周四，美韩研究所表示，近在9月27日的卫星图片显示，丰溪里出现了两个新隧道入口，以及成堆的泥土。报告称，这说明朝鲜可能在挖掘用于核试验的新隧道，或者在建造既有隧道的连接通道。该研究所表示，看起来，朝鲜还在升级该区域的辅助设施。
These activities “indicate that North Korea is planning to conduct future detonations as part of its overall nuclear weapons development program,” the institute said in its report, posted on its Web site, 38 North.
该机构在其网站38 North上发表报告称，这些活动“表明朝鲜计划在未来进行爆炸试验，以此作为核武器发展总体规划的一部分。”
South Korean officials have said that the North might conduct another nuclear test, whether to advance its weapons program or to raise tensions as a bargaining tactic, but they have also said that it is difficult to predict when the North might do so. While satellite images of the North’s nuclear sites are often scrutinized by analysts, the images cannot reveal what is happening within the tunnels and buildings themselves, and Pyongyang is sometimes suspected of increasing activity at the sites simply to put pressure on the United States to negotiate.
韩国官员曾表示，朝鲜可能会再次进行核试验，或是为了发展核武器计划，或是为了加剧紧张局势，以此作为谈判策略。然而，他们还表示，很难预测朝鲜会在何时进行试验。虽然分析人士经常仔细查看朝鲜核设施的卫星图像，但这些图像无法显示隧道及建筑内部的情况，而在有些时候，平壤加强活动只是为了迫使美国参与谈判。
After having struck a series of failed deals with Pyongyang, however, Washington is wary of returning to the negotiating table unless the North first demonstrates a willingness to dismantle its nuclear arms program.
然而，在与平壤方面达成一系列以失败告终的协议之后，华盛顿方面对重回谈判桌持谨慎态度，除非朝鲜首先以行动表明放弃核武器计划的意愿。
On Wednesday, a spokesman for the North Korean Foreign Ministry was quoted as saying that it could make such a move only if the United States took “simultaneous” action toward abandoning what he called its “hostile policy” against Pyongyang.
据称，朝鲜外交部发言人周三表示，只有在美国采取“同步”行动、放弃他所谓的针对平壤的“敌对政策”之时，朝鲜才会采取上述举措。
“Action for action is the basic principle for resolving the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula, and we will never move first unilaterally,” the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency quoted the spokesman, whom it did not identify, as saying. “We want peace and stability and demand the end of U.S. hostile policy, but we never beg for them.”
“对等行动是解决朝鲜半岛核问题的基本原则，我们绝不会首先采取单方面行动，”朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)援引上述发言人的话说。“我们想要和平和稳定，并且要求美国放弃敌对政策，但我们绝不会乞求。”