SHEOHAR DISTRICT, India — He wore thick black eyeliner to ward off the evil eye, but Vivek, a tiny 1-year-old living in a village of mud huts and diminutive people, had nonetheless fallen victim to India’s great scourge of malnutrition.
印度谢奥哈尔县——一岁的瘦小男婴维韦克(Vivek)生活在一个由泥土房和身材矮小的村民组成的村落。为了消灾辟邪，维韦克画了浓重的黑色眼线，但他仍然不幸地成为了印度严重营养不良问题的受害者。
His parents seemed to be doing all the right things. His mother still breast-fed him. His family had six goats, access to fresh buffalo milk and a hut filled with hundreds of pounds of wheat and potatoes. The economy of the state where he lives has for years grown faster than almost any other. His mother said she fed him as much as he would eat and took him four times to doctors, who diagnosed malnutrition. Just before Vivek was born in this green landscape of small plots and grazing water buffalo near the Nepali border, the family even got electricity.
维韦克的父母看起来完全称职。他的妈妈还在给他哺乳。家里养了六只山羊，也具有得到新鲜水牛奶的途径，一间草房里更是堆着几百磅的小麦和土豆。多年以来，这个邦的经济增速几乎优于所有其他邦。维韦克的母亲说，他能吃多少，就给他喂多少，曾经带他看过四次医生，诊断都是营养不良。就在维韦克出生前，家里还通上了电。他们所在的村子靠近尼泊尔边境，有许多绿色的小块农田，吃草的水牛随处可见。
So why was Vivek malnourished?
那维韦克怎么会营养不良？
It is a question being asked about children across India, where a long economic boom has done little to reduce the vast number of children who are malnourished and stunted, leaving them with mental and physical deficits that will haunt them their entire lives. Now, an emerging body of scientific studies suggest that Vivek and many of the 162 million children under the age of 5 in the world who are malnourished are suffering less a lack of food than poor sanitation.
人们正在针对全印度的孩子问同样的问题。在印度，长期的经济繁荣并没有使营养不良和发育迟缓的儿童数量减少，这个数字仍然极为庞大。这些儿童的智力和身体上因此留下了缺陷，一生都会受到影响。如今，越来越多的科研结果发现，维韦克以及世界上许多五岁以下的儿童之所以营养不良，不是因为缺少食物，而是因为糟糕的卫生条件。全世界共有1.62亿五岁以下儿童营养不良。
Like almost everyone else in their village, Vivekand his family have no toilet, and the district where they live has the highest concentration of people who defecate outdoors. As a result, children are exposed to a bacterial brew that often sickens them, leaving them unable to attain a healthy body weight no matter how much food they eat.
与村里的几乎所有其他人一样，维韦克和家人没有厕所可用，在他们所居住的县，随地便溺者的比例极高。因此，儿童被暴露在一个充满细菌的环境中，常常因此而患病，导致他们无论吃多少，都无法拥有正常的体重。
“These children’s bodies divert energy and nutrients away from growth and brain development to prioritize infection-fighting survival,” said Jean Humphrey, a professor of human nutrition at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “When this happens during the first two years of life, children become stunted. What’s particularly disturbing is that the lost height and intelligence are permanent.”
“为了完成对抗传染病从而维持生命的首要任务，这些孩子体内的能量和营养没能被用于支持生长和大脑发育，”约翰·霍普金斯大学布隆博格公共卫生学院(Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health)的人类营养学教授琼·汉弗莱(Jean Humphrey)说，“当一两岁的幼儿遭遇这种状况时，就会发育不良。特别令人担忧的是，这些体重和智力的损失是永久性的。”
Two years ago, Unicef, the World Health Organization and the World Bank released a major report on child malnutrition that focused entirely on a lack of food. Sanitation was not mentioned. Now, Unicef officials and those from other major charitable organizations said in interviews that they believe that poor sanitation may cause more than half of the world’s stunting problem.
两年前，联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)、世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)和世界银行(World Bank)发布了一份关于儿童营养不良现象的重要报告，其内容仅关注了食品的缺乏，对卫生条件只字未提。现在，儿基会官员和其他主要慈善机构的工作人员在接受采访时说，他们相信，超过一半的发育迟缓问题可能是糟糕的卫生条件导致的。
“Our realization about the connection between stunting and sanitation is just emerging,” said Sue Coates, chief of water, sanitation and hygiene at Unicef India. “At this point, it is still just an hypothesis, but it is an incredibly exciting and important one because of its potential impact.”
儿基会印度办公室水、环境卫生和个人卫生项目主管休·科茨(Sue Coates)说，“我们才刚刚开始认识到发育不良和卫生条件之间的关系。目前，它仍然只是一个假设，但鉴于可能产生的影响，这个发现令人无比振奋，也非常重要。”
This research has quietly swept through many of the world’s nutrition and donor organizations in part because it resolves a great mystery: Why are Indian children so much more malnourished than their poorer counterparts in sub-Saharan Africa?
这项研究在许多健康和捐赠机构中迅速传播，一个原因是它解决了一个很大的疑问：为什么与更贫穷的撒哈拉以南的非洲国家相比，印度儿童的营养不良问题更加严重？
A child raised in India is far more likely to be malnourished than one from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe or Somalia, the planet’s poorest countries. Stunting afflicts 65 million Indian children under the age of 5, including a third of children from the country’s richest families.
与刚果民主共和国、津巴布韦或索马里这些地球上最贫穷的国家相比，在印度长大的儿童更容易患上营养不良。6500万五岁以下的印度儿童发育不良，包括印度最富裕家庭的孩子的三分之一。
This disconnect between wealth and malnutrition is so striking that economists have concluded that economic growth does almost nothing to lessen malnutrition.
财富和营养不良之间形成的强烈反差使一些经济学家得出结论，经济增长基本上无助于减轻营养不良问题。
Half of India’s population, or at least 620 million people, defecates outdoors. And while this share has declined slightly in the past decade, an analysis of census data shows that rapid population growth has meant that most Indians are being exposed to more human waste than ever before.
印度有一半人口，即至少6.2亿人在户外便溺。过去十年里，这一比例出现了轻微下降，不过，据一项人口普查数据分析显示，快速增长的人口意味着，大多数印度人接触到的人类排泄物，比以往任何时候都多。
In Sheohar, for instance, a toilet-building program between 2001 and 2011 decreased the share of households without toilets to 80 percent from 87 percent, but population growth meant that exposure to human waste rose by half.
例如，在谢奥赫尔，一项从2001年到2011年的厕所建设计划让无厕所家庭的比例从87%降到了80%，可是人口的增长意味着，暴露在人类排泄物下的人数上升了一半。
“The difference in average height between Indian and African children can be explained entirely by differing concentrations of open defecation,” said Dean Spears, an economist at the Delhi School of Economics. “There are far more people defecating outside in India more closely to one another’s children and homes than there are in Africa or anywhere else in the world.”
“印度儿童和非洲儿童平均身高上的差异，完全可以用公开排便的密度差异来解释。”德里经济学院(Delhi School of Economic)经济学家迪安·斯皮尔斯(Dean Spears)说。“与非洲或其他任何地方相比，有更多印度人在户外靠近其他儿童或别人的家的地方便溺，而且他们的距离也更近。”
Not only does stunting contribute to the deaths of a million children under the age of 5 each year, but those who survive suffer cognitive deficits and are poorer and sicker than children not affected by stunting. They also may face increased risks for adult illnesses like diabetes, heart attacks and strokes.
每年有100万五岁以下儿童的死亡和发育迟缓有关，不仅如此，幸存下来的儿童会患上认知障碍，而且比没有发育迟缓的儿童身体更差、病得更重。这些幸存者长大后还可能面临更高的疾病风险，比如糖尿病、心脏病和中风。
“India’s stunting problem represents the largest loss of human potential in any country in history, and it affects 20 times more people in India alone than H.I.V./AIDS does around the world,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, vice president for research and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India.
“在历史上，印度的发育迟缓问题是一个国家遭受的规模最大的人类潜能损失情况，它在印度一国影响的人口，比HIV/艾滋病毒(AIDS)在全球影响的人口还多20倍。”印度公共卫生基金会负责研究和政策的副主席拉马纳·拉克西米纳拉扬(Ramanan Laxminarayan)说。
India is an increasingly risky place to raise children. The country’s sanitation and air quality are among the worst in the world. Parasitic diseases and infections like tuberculosis, often linked with poor sanitation, are most common in India. More than one in four newborn deaths occur in India.
就养育孩子而言，印度是一个越来越危险的地方。该国的公共卫生条件和空气质量被列入了全球最差行列。寄生虫病和肺结核等传染病是印度最常见的疾病，它们往往和恶劣的公共卫生环境有关。全球有超过四分之一的新生儿死亡病例发生在印度。
Other developing countries have made huge strides in improving sanitation. Just 1 percent of Chinese and 3 percent of Bangladeshis relieve themselves outside compared with half of Indians. Attitudes may be just as important as access to toilets. Constructing and maintaining tens of millions of toilets in India would cost untold billions, a price many voters see no need to pay — a recent survey found that many people prefer going to the bathroom outside.
其他发展中国家在改善卫生条件方面取得了巨大的进步。印度有一半人口在户外便溺，与之相比，只有1%的中国人和3%的孟加拉人在户外解手。态度也许和能够上厕所一样重要。在印度，建造和维持数千万间厕所要花费数以亿计的成本，许多选民认为没必要付出这么大的代价——最近的一项调查发现，许多人宁可去露天便溺。
India’s government has for decades tried to resolve the country’s stubborn malnutrition problems by distributing vast stores of subsidized food. But more and better food has largely failed to reverse early stunting, studies have repeatedly shown.
过去数十年里，印度政府曾试图通过发放大量的补贴食品解决本国根深蒂固的营养不良问题。可是，各种研究已一再显示，更多更好的食品基本上无法逆转儿童早期的发育迟缓。
India now spends about $26 billion annually on food and jobs programs, and less than $400 million on improving sanitation — a ratio of more than 60 to 1.
目前，印度每年为食品和就业计划支出的金额达到了260亿美元左右，而用于改善卫生状况的支出还不足4亿美元——两者的比例超过了60:1。
“We need to reverse that ratio entirely,” Dr. Laxminarayan said.
拉克西米纳拉扬博士说，“我们需要彻底地扭转这一比例。”
Lack of food is still an important contributor to malnutrition for some children, and some researchers say the field’s sudden embrace of sanitation has been overdone. “In South Asia, a more important factor driving stunting is diet quality,” said Zulfiqar A. Bhutta, a director of the Center for Global Child Health at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto.
对部分孩子而言，缺少食物依然是他们营养不良的一个重要原因，一些研究人员表示，在这一研究领域，突然认定卫生条件是导致营养不良的罪魁祸首的看法有些过头了。“在南亚，导致发育迟缓的一个更重要的因素是饮食质量，”多伦多病童医院(Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto)全球儿童健康中心(Center for Global Child Health)主任佐勒菲卡尔·A·布塔(Zulfiqar A. Bhutta)说。
Studies are underway in Bangladesh, Kenya and Zimbabwe to assess the share of stunting attributable to poor sanitation. “Is it 50 percent? Ninety percent? That’s a question worth answering,” said Dr. Stephen Luby, a professor of medicine at Stanford University who is overseeing a trial in Bangladesh that is expected to report its results in 2016. “In the meantime, I think we can all agree that it’s not a good idea to raise children surrounded by poop.”
孟加拉国、肯尼亚和津巴布韦正在通过研究来评估，应在多大程度上，把恶劣的公共卫生环境视为发育迟缓的诱因。“是50%？还是90%？这是一个值得回答的问题，”斯坦福大学(Stanford University)医学教授斯蒂芬·卢比(Stephen Luby)博士说。他负责监管孟加拉国的一项试验，预计试验方将在2016年通报结果。“与此同时，我想我们可以一致认定，在一个被粪便包围的地方养育孩子不是好主意。”
Better sanitation in the West during the 19th and early 20th centuries led to huge improvements in health long before the advent of vaccines and antibiotics, and researchers have long known that childhood environments play a crucial role in child death and adult height.
19世纪及20世纪初，也就是在疫苗及抗生素出现之前，更好的卫生状况在西方国家极大地改善了健康状况，研究人员早就知道，童年的生活环境对儿童死亡及成人身高具有重要作用。
The present research on gut diseases in children has focused on a condition resulting from repeated bacterial infections that flatten intestinal linings, reducing by a third the ability to absorb nutrients. A recent study of starving children found that they lacked the crucial gut bacteria needed to digest food.
目前有关儿童肠道疾病的研究主要侧重多次细菌感染产生的病态情况，即细菌感染带来的肠道内壁受损，导致吸收营养的能力下降三分之一。最近一项有关饥饿儿童的研究发现，他们缺少消化食物所需要的至关重要的肠道细菌。
No Indian city has a comprehensive waste treatment system, and most Indian rivers are open sewers as a result. But Varanasi, India’s oldest and holiest city, is so awash in human waste that its decrepit condition became a national issue in recent elections. The city’s sewage plants can handle only about 20 percent of the sewage generated in the city, said Ramesh Chopra of Ganga Seva Abhiyanam, a trust for cleaning the river. The rest sloshes into the Ganges or fetid ponds and pits.
印度的城市没有综合的垃圾处理系统，因此，该国大多数的河流都成了露天的下水道。印度最古老、最神圣的城市瓦拉纳西到处都是人类排泄物，以至于在最近的选举活动中，其糟糕的环境成为了全国性议题。受托基金机构Ganga Seva Abhiyanam以清理河流为使命，成员拉梅什·乔普拉(Ramesh Chopra)表示，该市的污水处理厂只能处理全市20%的污水，剩余的污水则流入恒河或恶臭的池塘和深洼。