The eruption of a volcano on the Indonesian island of Bali for the second time in a week spurred the evacuation of 75,000 people and the cancellation of scores of flights this weekend as a plume of ash and steam spewed more than 19,000 feet into the sky.
本周末，印度尼西亚巴厘岛的一座火山在一周内第二次喷发，火山灰和烟雾喷出高达19000英尺（约合5800米），导致7.5万人疏散，大量航班取消。
On Monday, Indonesia’s National Board for Disaster Management raised its alert for the volcano, Mount Agung, to the highest level possible, and said in a statement that a “potential for a larger eruption is imminent.” An evacuation area was extended to six miles around the volcano.
周一，印度尼西亚国家灾害管理委员会(Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management)提升了对阿贡火山(Mount Agung)的预警级别，升至最高级，并在声明中表示“有可能即将出现更大爆发”。紧急疏散区域扩大至火山周围6英里（约10公里）范围。
Jetstar, KLM, Qantas and Virgin Airlines all canceled flights Saturday and Sunday to and from the island, which is popular with tourists, after Mount Agung erupted around 5:30 p.m. Saturday.
在阿贡火山于周六下午大约5:30爆发后，捷星航空(Jetstar)、荷兰皇家航空(KLM)、澳洲航空(Qantas)和维珍航空(Virgin Airlines)均取消了周六、周日往返深受游客欢迎的巴厘岛航班。
Ngurah Rai International Airport, the island’s main airport, was closed on Sunday, according to The Associated Press, as some thousands of passengers from canceled flights remained stranded there.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，巴厘岛主要机场伍拉·赖国际机场(Ngurah Rai International Airport)于周日关闭，数千名旅客因航班取消滞留机场。
The airport initially canceled 45 flights on Sunday, including those by Cathay Pacific Airways, Jetstar, AirAsia and Garuda Indonesia, officials said. More than 5,500 passengers were affected.
官方称，机场首先取消了周日的45班航班，包括国泰(Cathay Pacific Airways)、捷星、亚航(AirAsia)和印尼鹰航(Garuda Indonesia)的航班，超过5500名旅客受到影响。
The small international airport on neighboring Lombok Island shut down as towering gray plumes drifted east.
在火山灰柱飘向东部后，邻近岛屿龙目岛(Lombok Island)的小型国际机场也被关闭。
On Sunday, ash from the 9,940-foot volcano covered roads, cars and buildings near the volcano in the northeast of the island on Sunday, while a red glow of what appeared to be magma could be seen overnight in photographs by Antara, the state news agency.
周日，位于岛屿东北部9940英尺（约合3030米）高的火山带来的火山灰覆盖了附近的道路、车辆和房屋。在印尼国家通讯社——安塔拉通讯社(Antara)发布的照片里，彻夜可见岩浆的红色光芒。
Indonesia issued its highest alert for aircrafts, a “red” warning, or Volcano Observatory Notice for Aviation, and said the top of the ash cloud could reach 19,654 feet or higher.
印尼发布了最高级别的“红色”机场航空预警，也称火山飞安警戒(Volcano Observatory Notice for Aviation)，并表示火山灰云最高可达19654英尺（约合5990米）或更高。
Masks were being distributed in Bali and Pulau Lombok, CNN said.
美国有线电视新闻网(CNN)报道，在巴厘岛和龙目岛有口罩发放。
“The activity of Mount Agung has entered the magmatic eruption phase,” Gede Suantika, an official at the volcanology and geological disaster mitigation agency, told Reuters. “It is still spewing ash at the moment, but we need to monitor and be cautious over the possibility of a strong, explosive eruption.”
“阿贡火山的活动已进入岩浆喷发阶段，”印尼火山和地质灾害管理局官员盖德·苏安迪卡(Gede Suantika)对路透社(Reuters)说。“目前仍有火山灰喷发，但我们必须监视并警惕火山爆炸性大喷发的可能。”
Agung also erupted on Tuesday, sending ash to a height of about half that it reached Saturday.
阿贡火山曾在周二喷发，火山灰喷发高度约为周日高度的一半。
Bali, famous for its surf, beaches and temples, attracted nearly five million visitors in 2016, but business has slumped in areas around the volcano since September, when Agung’s volcanic tremors began to increase.
以冲浪、沙滩和寺庙闻名的巴厘岛2016年吸引了将近500万游客，但自9月份阿贡火山震动加剧开始，火山周围区域的生意出现下滑。
More than 145,000 people were evacuated that month, when the volcano showed signs of its e first major eruption in more than 50 years. But major activity failed to materialize, and many of those living in the area returned home. About 25,000 people are still displaced.
自该月阿贡火山表现出了50多年来首次大爆发的迹象后，有超过14.5万人被撤离。但大型地质活动并未成形，许多生活在该地区的人又回到家中。还有大约2.5万人背井离乡。
Indonesia’s National Board for Disaster Management said in a statement that it was still assessing the risk but that “Bali’s condition remains safe.”
印度尼西亚国家灾害管理委员会在一则声明中表示，他们仍在进行风险评估，但“巴厘岛的环境仍然安全”。
More than 1,100 people died when Mount Agung last had a major eruption, in 1963. Indonesia has more than 120 active volcanoes within its borders.
阿贡火山上一次爆发是在1963年，导致了1100多人死亡。印尼境内有超过120座活火山。