JAKARTA, Indonesia — After a second day of searching without any confirmed sighting of wreckage, the Indonesian authorities on Monday sought to lower expectations about finding survivors from a missing AirAsia jet carrying 162 people.
印度尼西亚雅加达——第二天的搜寻工作仍未发现任何证实的飞机残骸之后，印度尼西亚政府周一试图降低人们对能在载有162人的亚航失踪航班上找到生还者的预期。
“We realize that we have to be prepared for the worst,” Jusuf Kalla, Indonesia’s vice president, told reporters in Surabaya, the city from which the Singapore-bound plane took off on Sunday.
“我们意识到，必须做好最坏的打算，”印尼副总统优素福·卡拉(Jusuf Kalla)在泗水对记者说。这架原定飞往新加坡的飞机是周日从该城市起飞的。
Mr. Kalla said that around 30 ships and 15 aircraft from four countries had joined the search for the jet in the Java Sea, amid the islands of Borneo, Java and Sumatra.
卡拉说，约有来自四个国家的30艘船和15架飞机参加了在爪哇海寻找该飞机的行动。爪哇海位于婆罗洲、爪哇和苏门答腊岛之间。
Bambang Soelistyo, the head of the National Search and Rescue Agency in Indonesia, offered even more sobering comments earlier on Monday when he said that the aircraft was probably “at the bottom of the sea” and that Indonesia lacked adequate equipment to conduct an underwater search.
印尼国家搜救队队长班邦·索里斯托(Bambang Soelistyo)在周一早些时候的记者会上说了一些更令人悲伤的话，他说，这架飞机可能已“沉在海底”，还说印尼缺乏进行水下搜索所需的设备。
Relatives of the plane’s passengers gathered in airports in Surabaya and Singapore, waiting in hopes of news.
班机上乘客的亲属聚集在泗水和新加坡的机场，抱着一丝希望等待新的消息。
A woman at the Surabaya airport wandered around looking stunned and bereft, holding a framed photograph of a family of five.
一位女子在泗水机场走来走去，满脸震惊和失落，她手中拿着一个镶有一家五口照片的镜框。
“They were on their way to Singapore to visit their 12-year-old daughter,” said the woman, Nani, who said she was the family’s maid and who, like many Indonesians, uses only one name. “That girl is now an orphan.”
这位女子说，“他们是去新加坡看他们12岁的女儿。那个女孩现在成了一个孤儿。”这位女子名叫娜妮(Nani)，她说自己是他们家的女佣，和许多印尼人一样，她只有单名。
But with officials offering few hard details, experts and some news reports were speculating on the cause of the disappearance, from bad weather to fears that the aircraft was traveling too slowly to stay airborne.
由于政府官员没有提供多少有关细节，专家和一些新闻媒体在猜测飞机失踪的原因，例如恶劣天气，也有人担心这架飞机的飞行速度过慢，导致其失去升力。
Search teams, which included fishing boats pressed into service and vessels from Australia, Malaysia and Singapore, covered a large area of sea near the island of Belitung, the last known location of the plane, an Airbus A320-200.
搜索船队中包括临时征调的渔船，以及来自澳大利亚、马来西亚和新加坡的船只，覆盖了勿里洞岛附近的大片海域，这是该空客A320-200型客机最后的已知位置。
Officials said the countries were working together “seamlessly,” but they were hard-pressed to search underwater.
官员说，这些国家正在“不停顿地”共同努力，但他们水下搜寻的能力有限。
“The capability of our equipment is not optimum,” Mr. Bambang said.
班邦说，“我们的设备能力并非最佳。”
Search-and-rescue teams on Monday spotted debris that turned out to be unrelated flotsam, the same kind of false alarms that plagued the search efforts for the Malaysia Airlines plane that disappeared over the Indian Ocean in March.
搜索和救援队周一发现了一些碎片，但它们只是些无关的漂浮物。搜索马来西亚航空公司3月份消失在印度洋的飞机的工作也受到过这类假情况的困扰。
Although weather was suspected as a factor in the aircraft’s disappearance, Pramintohadi Sukarno, an official at the Transportation Ministry who is helping lead the search, said background checks were being carried out on all passengers as part of standard procedures.
尽管天气被怀疑为飞机失踪的一个因素，但协助领导搜索工作的印尼交通部官员普拉敏托哈迪·苏加诺(Pramintohadi Sukarno)表示，做为标准程序的一部分，正在对所有乘客的背景进行调查。
Some experts expressed fears that, faced with stormy weather, the aircraft may have been traveling at an angle and speed that would not sustain flight. This was a central factor in the crash of an Air France flight over the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, when pilots, encountering foul weather and with instruments seeming to malfunction, failed to recognize that their aircraft had entered an aerodynamic stall.
一些专家担心，在暴风雨天气情况下，这架飞机飞行的角度和速度可能未能让其保持升力。这是法国航空公司班机2009年在大西洋上空坠毁的核心因素，当时飞行员遇到恶劣天气，而仪器似乎发生了故障，使得他们未能意识到，飞机已经失去了升力。
Hugh Ritchie, the Singapore-based chief executive of Aviation Consultants International, said the plane was flying roughly 100 knots below the general cruising speed, well within the safe envelope for flight but possibly a sign that it was climbing, had experienced severe icing or slowed to better manage turbulence.
总部在新加坡的航空顾问国际(Aviation Consultants International)的首席执行官休·里奇(Hugh Ritchie)表示，该班机的飞行速度比通常的巡航速度低大约185公里/小时，虽然这完全是在安全飞行速度范围之内，但可能也是一种迹象，表明飞机正在上升，或遭遇了严重的结冰，或放慢了速度以更好地应对湍流。
“My personal opinion is, they should not fly through this type of weather,” he said. “I think this is probably a combination of severe weather and pilot error in terms of the flight path.”
“我个人的看法是，他们不应该在这类天气情况下飞行，”他说。“我认为，从飞行路线来看，这可能是恶劣天气和飞行员操作失误的组合。”
Yet while Sunday’s disappearance is yet another blow to Indonesia’s aviation safety record, it is not necessarily a reflection of a systemic failure at AirAsia or of the civic aviation safety system.
然而，尽管周日的飞机失踪是对印尼的航空安全记录的又一打击，但这不一定反映了亚航整体出现了问题，或反映了民用航空安全系统的失误。
The airline, the leading Asian budget carrier, had carried 250 million passengers since its founding more than a decade ago without a fatal accident.
亚航是亚洲领先的廉价航空公司，自从十多年前成立以来，已运载乘客达2.5亿人次，此前从未出过死亡事故。
The possibility that bad weather played a role in the disappearance has renewed debate over whether pilots have access to enough data to warn them of weather-related dangers.
恶劣天气在飞机失踪中或许起了作用，这再次引起对一个问题的争论：飞行员是否有足够的数据，让他们得到有关天气的危险警告。
“The fact is, there’s more technology and automated alerting on some of the apps on your smartphone than are on these planes today,” said Bob Marshall, chief executive of Earth Networks, a company that provides global weather data. “The vast majority of the world lacks adequate technology and alerting that pilots need to help keep the plane you’re flying in out of harm’s way.”
监测全球天气情况的地球网络公司(Earth Networks)首席执行官鲍勃·马歇尔(Bob Marshall)说，“实际上，你的智能手机比如今的这些飞机有更多的自动化告警技术的应用。世界上绝大多数东西缺乏足够的、飞行员所需的技术和提醒工具，以帮助他保持你所乘坐的飞机不受伤害。”
An Indonesian pilot who now works for an airline in the Middle East said that pilots traversing the Indonesian archipelago are often confronted with large and potentially volatile cloud formations, especially during the monsoon season. But he doubted that more or better technology was the answer.
现在中东航空公司工作的一名印尼飞行员表示，穿越印度尼西亚群岛的飞行员常常面临不稳定的巨大云体，尤其是在雨季。但他对靠更多或更好的技术就能解决问题表示怀疑。