NEW DELHI — In the afternoon confusion of South Delhi, it seems, nobody took notice of the wraithlike woman struggling uphill to the place local people call “the forest,” one young daughter held in the crook of each arm and a third, a little girl in pigtails, scrambling along behind.
新德里——在南德里区的一个迷乱的下午，似乎没人注意到那个幽灵似的女人正在艰难地爬上被当地人称作“森林”的地方，她两个胳膊抱着两个小女儿，另一个扎着小辫的女孩跟在她身后攀爬。
When she reached the place she was looking for — a trash-strewn indentation in the earth — the woman strangled all three of them, the police said, and laid them on the ground in a row, the 8-month-old tucked between her sisters, ages 3 and 7. Then the woman tore a strip of fabric from her sari and fashioned a noose. She tried to hang herself but only lost consciousness.
警方称，到达目的地——一个满是垃圾的凹坑后，她勒死了这三个女孩，将她们并排放在地上，八个月大的女婴被放在3岁和7岁的姐姐中间。然后她从自己的纱丽上撕下一条布，打了一个活扣。她试图上吊自杀，但只是失去了知觉。
The story of the mother, Radha Devi, figured in the newspapers for a few days last week, another of the domestic horrors that make up this city’s crime blotter. There was cursory speculation about what it meant: Neighbors said Ms. Devi was mortified over having no sons, which have traditionally been prized above daughters in India, in part because girls’ parents must provide a dowry, whereas boys are seen as future earners.
上周，这个名叫拉德哈·黛维(Radha Devi)的母亲连续几天登上报纸，成为这座城市的犯罪记录簿中又一起恐怖的案例。人们纷纷猜测这一举动的含意：邻居们称黛维因为不能生出儿子而倍感羞愧，印度有着重男轻女的传统，这部分是因为女孩的父母必须提供嫁妆，而男孩则被视作未来的收入来源。
Yet it was impossible to point to one answer. Ms. Devi had been under psychiatric treatment, something her husband, Raju Singh — a slight, wilted-looking tailor — struggled to make possible in the hours before and after his shift. Educated through the fifth grade and married at 13, Ms. Devi became part of the great tide washing from India’s villages into its cities, hoping to rise out of poverty. Most of these people struggle to survive. Some get lost altogether.
但不可能只归咎于一个原因。黛维一直在接受精神病治疗，他的丈夫拉朱·辛格(Raju Singh)——一个瘦小，看起来很憔悴的裁缝——要趁不当班的时候挤出时间带她去治疗。黛维上过五年学，在13岁的时候结了婚，成为从印度农村涌向城市的移民潮的一部分，他们希望摆脱贫困。其中大多数人都在为生存而挣扎。有一些人则完全迷失了。
The triple killing landed on the desk of Inspector Ajab Singh of the Delhi Police, who sent detectives to the 10-by-12-foot room the family rented for about $16 a month. The room was windowless, infested with mice and a few steps from a stinking commode. On the wall were children’s drawings, people with elephant ears and bumblebee bodies.
三人被杀的案件落到了新德里警察局巡官阿贾卜·辛格(Ajab Singh)手里，他派侦探前往辛格家租住的120平方英尺（约合11平方米）大的住所，这个租金为每月16美元（约合100元人民币）的住所没有窗户，满是老鼠，几步远之外就是臭气熏天的马桶。墙上挂着孩子们的画，画上是有着大象耳朵和大黄蜂身体的人。
Ms. Devi wanted a boy, said the landlady, Vijay Lakshmi, and she slid into a darker place after the birth of a fourth daughter. The family included a 10-year-old, as well as the three girls who died.
女房东维贾伊·拉克希米(Vijay Lakshmi)表示，黛维想要一个男孩，在第四个女儿的出生令黛维愈发堕入深渊。这个家除了三个已经死亡的女儿，还有一个十岁大的女儿。
During her pregnancy, Ms. Devi and her husband traveled to see a doctor who she believed would help her bear a son. When that failed, she still talked about a fifth child, though her youngest girl was listless from underfeeding, the landlady said.
怀孕期间，黛维和丈夫曾去拜访一名医生，她认为这个医生能帮她怀上男孩。女房东说，这个计划失败后，她还表示想生第五个孩子，尽管最年幼的女儿因为营养不良而显得病怏怏的。
“She used to go out and tell people, ‘Take my daughters, take my girls,’ ” Ms. Lakshmi said.
拉克希米说，“有阵子她会到外面跟人说，‘把我的女儿带走吧，请把她们带走。’”
Mr. Singh, 32, said he had never pressured his wife for a boy. He said she had disappeared into a catatonic silence so profound that he would brush her teeth for her as she lay in bed. He took her to a psychiatrist, who prescribed an antidepressant and an anticonvulsant, clonazepam, which is sometimes given for panic disorders. When he returned from work at night, he said, the girls would tell him about their mother’s frightening speeches.
32岁的辛格说，他从来没有强迫妻子生男孩。他说，她陷入了一种紧张性的沉默，严重到需要卧床，让他给她刷牙。他还曾带她去看心理医生，医生给她开了抗抑郁药和抗痉挛药氯硝西泮——这种药有时会用于恐慌症。他说，晚上当他下班回家时，女儿会告诉他，妈妈说过什么可怕的话。
“She used to talk about killing them,” he said. “She would say, ‘I won’t go home, I’ll go somewhere, I’ll just throw these girls away.’ ” Last week, on the way to a state hospital to refill her medications, she suddenly threw the 8-month-old, Sulena, into a sewage drain, he said. He snatched the baby out and wiped the filth off her, and they continued on their way — he on a bicycle, she and the three girls in an auto-rickshaw. The 10-year-old was at school.
“她曾表示要杀死她们，”他说。“她会说，‘我不回家了，我要去别的地方，我要扔掉这些女孩。’”他说，上周去邦医院取药时，她突然把8个月大的女儿苏莱娜(Sulena)扔进了水沟。他迅速把孩子捞起来，擦掉她身上的污渍，然后继续上路——他骑一辆自行车，妻子与三个女儿乘坐一辆机动三轮车。那个10岁的孩子在学校。
They became separated at a red light. The bicycle stopped at the light; the auto-rickshaw shot forward. Ms. Devi’s telephone rang and rang, but nobody answered. Other than that account, the only real information has come from interrogations by the police: Something had pulled Ms. Devi toward the forest, she told them, and when she got there, she was at peace. Voices had told her what to do.
他们在一个红灯处分开了。自行车看到灯停了下来，三轮车则继续前行。黛维的电话响了又响，但是无人接听。除了他的陈述之外，唯一切实的信息来自警方的质询：黛维告诉他们，她是被某种东西拉到森林里去的，而且她到达那里时情绪平和。有个声音告诉她应该怎么做。