As pollution in Singapore soared to record levels on Thursday, local officials pressed Indonesia to curtail the widespread burning of forests, which they say is causing the stubborn haze enveloping the city-state.
新加坡的空气污染程度在周四创下历史纪录，当地官员敦促印度尼西亚控制其大面积的林火，并称这是新加坡被顽固雾霾笼罩的原因。
The Pollution Standards Index, a uniform system used by Singapore to measure pollution, hit 371 at 1 p.m., topping the previous record of 226, which was set in 1997. Health officials consider any level above 300 to be hazardous to health.
新加坡统一使用污染标准指数(Pollution Standards Index)来测量污染水平，该指数在下午1点达到371，超过了1997年创下的最高纪录226。卫生部门的官员认为，超出300的污染水平就会给健康带来巨大危害。
Residents were urged to remain indoors, while air traffic controllers at Changi Airport were told to take extra precautions in directing flights. In neighboring Malaysia, more than 200 schools were ordered closed because of the pollution.
新加坡官方敦促居民不要外出，樟宜机场的空中交通管制员也收到通知，指挥飞行时需要格外警惕。在邻国马来西亚，有超过200所学校因严重污染而被要求停课。
The persistence of the pollution this week has tested ties with Indonesia, where farmers in Sumatra often burn forests at this time of year as a cheap way to prepare the land for new plantings. Though such burning violates local laws, Indonesian officials have failed to stop it.
本周的持续污染是对新加坡和印尼两国关系的一大考验。印尼苏门答腊的农民经常在一年当中的这个时候烧荒，通过这种简易的方式来为种植新作物做准备。尽管烧荒有违当地法律，印尼官方却未能加以阻止。
“No country or corporation has the right to pollute the air at the expense of Singaporeans’ health and well-being,” Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore’s environment minister, said in calling for Indonesian action to curb the fires.
“没有任何国家或企业有权污染空气，损害新加坡公民的健康和幸福，”新加坡环境部长维文(Vivian Balakrishnan)说，呼吁印尼采取行动遏制林火。
Indonesian officials say Malaysia and Singapore deserve part of the blame because their companies control many of the palm oil plantations where the burning takes place.
印尼官方说，马来西亚和新加坡也要承担部分责任，因为很多焚烧林地的棕榈油种植园都是由后两个国家的公司控制的。
An Indonesian official struck back on Thursday at the criticism from Singapore. Agung Laksono, the coordinating minister for people’s welfare, said, “Singapore shouldn’t be like children, in such a tizzy,” according to The Straits Times of Singapore.
一名印尼官员在周四对新加坡的批评发起反击。据新加坡《海峡时报》(The Straits Times)报道，印尼人民福利统筹部部长阿贡·拉克索诺(Agung Laksono)说，“新加坡不该像个孩子一样，大惊小怪。”
The problems in Singapore and Malaysia come at a time of increasing concern about pollution across Asia, particularly in China, where pollution readings this year have been at least 30 percent higher than in previous years.
新加坡和印尼因此产生矛盾之际，整个亚洲都越来越关注污染问题，特别是中国。中国今年的污染指数比前几年至少高了30%。