MUMBAI, INDIA — L. is 21 years old, a Mumbai media professional who wears his hair gelled and his shirts buttoned down. We met at a book reading a few weeks ago, and soon he was telling me about the night two years ago when a friend of his tried to kill herself.
印度孟买——21岁的L是孟买的一名媒体从业人员。他给头发打了发胶，衬衫的扣子扣得一丝不苟。我们是在几周前的一个读书会上认识的。很快，他就和我说起了两年前的一天夜里，他的一个朋友企图自杀的事情。
Four friends were at a bar, drunk, L. recalled, when S. said she would never get over the man she was in love with. She went to the toilet and came back wrists bleeding. “The owner freaked and called the police,” L. said. “We cut out quickly and got away before they showed up.”
L回忆说，当时四个朋友在一家酒吧里喝醉了，S说永远不会忘记与自己相爱的那个男人。后来她去了洗手间，回来时两个手腕在流血。“酒吧老板吓坏了，打电话报了警，”L说。“我们很快起身，在警察到之前离开了。”
L. took S. to a hospital, but “the doctors refused to treat her because she was a suicide case.” The police arrived before S. could be brought home and shown to her family doctor. “The policemen said that she was a criminal now and she should be taken to the police station.” And “they said that we were abetting the crime so we should also go to the police station.”
L带着S去了医院，但“医生拒绝接诊，因为这是一起自杀事件”。随后，在S被送回家并交给她的家庭医生之前，警察到了。“警察说她现在是一名罪犯，应该被带到警察局去。”而且，“他们说我们犯了教唆罪，所以我们也应该去警察局”。
At that point L. did what the young and privileged all over the world do in such situations: He called his father, a well-to-do travel agent. “Dad came to the hospital and slapped me across the face two or three times in front of the police. I think that was to show the cops that he was serious. I think he slapped me so he wouldn’t have to pay too much. We got off with Rs 12,000 (about $190), but there was solid bargaining.”
在那一刻，L做了全世界年轻的特权阶级在这种情况下都会做的事情：打电话给有钱的父亲。他父亲是一名旅行代理商。“我爸去了医院，当着警察的面给了我两三个嘴巴。我觉得那是为了向那些警察表示，他是认真的。我觉得他扇我巴掌是为了不用掏太多钱。在经过一番激烈的讨价还价后，我们还是在掏了1.2万卢比（约合1200元人民币）后才得以脱身。”
L. had come up against Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code of 1860, a piece of legislation designed by the very Victorian Lord Macaulay, which punished attempts to commit suicide with a fine or up to a year in jail or both. Aiding or instigating suicide — an offense created later — was punishable by up to ten years in jail, including possibly hard labor.
当时，L违反了1860年推出的《印度刑法典》(Indian Penal Code)的第309节。由维多利亚时代的麦考利勋爵(Lord Macaulay)设计的这部法律规定，对企图自杀的行为处以罚款或最高一年监禁，或是并处两种处罚。伙同或教唆自杀——这个罪名是后来设立的——最高可被处以10年监禁，可能还有劳役。
The rationale for criminalizing attempted suicide is the standard theological argument: Since only God could give you life, only God could take it away. The harsher penalty for abetment arose from something more distinctly Indian.
将企图自杀定为犯罪的依据，是标准的神学观点：既然只有上帝能赋予你生命，那么也只有上帝能夺走它。对教唆自杀的惩罚更严厉的原因，则具有颇为明显的印度特色。
India has strict laws against demanding a dowry of brides and their families. But even after marriage, women can be harassed by in-laws asking for money, gold or gifts, and some, driven to despair, kill themselves. Criminal abetment to suicide was often used to take such cases to court.
针对向新娘及其娘家索要嫁妆的行为，印度的法律颇为严厉。但即便是婚后，女性依然可能会遭到索要钱财、黄金或礼物的男方家人的骚扰，部分被逼至绝境的女性选择了自杀。人们常以教唆自杀是犯罪为由，将这类案件诉至法院。
But now, at the instigation of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, the law stands to be repealed. This follows a 2008 recommendation by the Law Commission, which suggested that attempted suicide should be “regarded more as a manifestation of a diseased condition of mind deserving treatment and care rather than an offense to be visited with punishment.”
但眼下，在执政党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的鼓动下，这部法律可能会被废除。在此之前，法律委员会(Law Commission)曾于2008年提议，企图自杀应“更多地被视为心理状态发生病变的一种表现，应得到医治和照顾，而非被视为应受处罚的一种犯罪”。
The news comes none too soon, given that India has the world’s highest suicide rate for 15-to-29-year-olds and desperately needs to rethink its approach to mental health. (In many cities, electro-convulsive therapy remains a common treatment for depression and suicidal tendencies; in small villages, the standard cure might be exorcism.) Although the anti-suicide law has rarely been applied, its very existence — and the threat of prison — discouraged people who attempted or considered suicide from seeking help. The authorities would sometimes leverage it for political advantage or to extract money by blackmailing already traumatized families.
考虑到印度15至29岁人群的自杀率是全世界最高的，且该国急需反思自己对待心理健康的方式，这个消息来的恰逢其时。（在许多城市里，电击休克疗法依然是治疗抑郁症和自杀倾向的常见方法；在小村子里，标准疗法可能是驱邪。）尽管这部反自杀法律很少得到应用，但它的存在——以及可能会因自杀而入狱的危险——阻碍了企图或考虑自杀的人寻求帮助。当局有时会利用它来获取政治优势，或是榨取钱财，方式是敲诈本已在精神上遭受创伤的家人。
When I heard earlier this month that the law was up for repeal, I wept for a while. It was never used against my mother, but I remember the day a police officer came to our home on one of the many occasions when she tried to take her own life. I was about 12 years old. He sat on our dark-red Rexine sofa and talked quietly with my father. He smelled acrid, of sweat in polyester, and refused an offer of tea, the standard gesture of hospitality in middle-class India. He did not ask for money, but my father produced some anyway, thanking him for his time and patience. After the police officer left — having accepted that offer — I asked my father whether my mother would have been arrested otherwise. He said, “I don’t know that I can take the chance.”
本月早些时候听说有关方面正在考虑废除这部法律时，我哭了一场。我母亲曾多次企图自杀。这条法律从未被用来针对我的母亲，但我仍然记得一个警察因为我母亲有一次企图自杀而去我们家的那一天。我那时大约12岁。他坐在我们家暗红色的仿皮沙发上，静静地和我父亲交谈。他散发出一股刺鼻的味道，那是他的化纤衣物发出的汗味。奉茶是印度中产阶级热情好客的标准姿态，但他拒绝了喝茶的邀请。他没有要钱，但我父亲还是掏出来了一些，并对他的时间和耐心表示感谢。那个警察收下钱离开后，我问父亲，如果不那么做，母亲会不会已经被逮捕了。他说，“我不知道能不能冒这个险。”
My mother was a chronic suicide. We paid again and again. When one day she had a genuine accident while crossing the road, a police officer turned up again, convinced she had been at it once more. My father paid so much that time, in hospital bills and bribes, that we had to give up the dream of moving to a bigger home.
我母亲长期企图自杀。我们就一次又一次地掏钱。一天，当她在过马路时遇到了一场真正的事故后，一名警察再次造访，深信她又是在企图自杀。那一次，我父亲因为医院账单和贿赂出了很多钱，以致我们不得不放弃了搬进一套更大的房子的梦想。
Not all people who attempt suicide are mentally ill: There are Indians who want to kill themselves for religious reasons, like some Jains, or out of political conviction.
企图自杀的人并非都有精神疾病：有印度人会出于宗教原因自尽，比如一些耆那教徒，也有人是出于政治信念。
In several northeastern territories, the draconian 1958 Armed Forces Special Powers Act allows officers to fire at people suspected of acting against the state. In 2004, the women of Manipur State demonstrated against it by stripping naked and carrying a banner that read “Indian Army Rape Us.” One of the most poignant protests has been the campaign of Irom Chanu Sharmila, who in 2000, when she was 28 years old, began a hunger strike to call for the AFSPA’s repeal. She has not voluntarily eaten food since.
在东南部许多地区，严酷的1958年《武装力量特别权力法案》(The Armed Forces Special Powers Act)允许官方向涉嫌反政府的人开枪。2004年，反对该法律的曼尼普尔邦女性举行了裸体抗议活动，高举着“印度军人强奸我们”的条幅。最令人心碎的抗议是2000年伊萝姆·恰努·莎米拉(Irom Chanu Sharmila)发起的，当时28岁的莎米拉为呼吁废除该法进行了绝食。此后她再也没有主动进食。