NEW DELHI — The schoolgirls ran into the auditorium, shouting, “Let’s go, let’s go,” in Hindi as they ushered one another into single-file lines. Some adjusted the big, red bows that held their braids together, part of their school uniform. Then they crouched into defensive postures, fists ready.
新德里——女学生们用印地语喊着“快走、快走”，跑进了礼堂，她们相互引导着排成一排排。有人整理了一下绑着长辫的红色大蝴蝶结，这是她们校服的一部分。然后她们屈膝摆出了防御姿势，握拳。
“Oss!” they yelled — a karate greeting combining the Japanese words for push and persevere.
“Oss！”她们喊道——这是一种空手道的行礼方式，是日语“押”和“忍”的结合。
They bowed slightly to their mentors before unleashing a series of punches, karate chops and kicks, interspersed with occasional giggles, whispers and sheepish smiles.
她们向导师微微鞠了个躬，然后便开始了出拳、劈掌、踢腿一系列动作，时而掺杂着咯咯的笑声、悄悄的低语和羞怯的笑容。
“Do not laugh!” Police Constable Renu, who like many Indians goes by one name, called from the stage above them, her white T-shirt emblazoned with “Respect Women” on the back.
“不许笑！”康斯特布尔·雷努(Constable Renu)警官在上方的舞台上喊道，她和许多印度人一样只有一个名，她的白色T恤背面印着“尊重女性”。
“Do you think they will laugh when they attack you?” she asked. “You must strike back with anger.”
“你们觉得他们在攻击你的时候会笑吗？”她问。“你必须愤怒回击。”
The girls stifled their smiles, their fists pummeling the air faster, with more determination. This was their seventh self-defense class, and they were feeling confident enough, many of them said, to do the unthinkable: stand up for themselves.
女孩们止住了笑，更快地向空中出拳，更坚定了。这是她们的第七节自我防卫课，许多人说，觉得自己更有自信去保卫自己了——这在以前是难以想象的事。
Constable Renu has been teaching this free, 10-day course hosted by the New Delhi police — a combination of karate, taekwondo and judo moves — for the past eight years in the city’s public schools and universities.
这个为期10天的免费课程由新德里警察局主办，它融合了空手道、跆拳道和柔道的动作。在过去的八年里，康斯特布尔·雷努一直在公立学校和大学教授这门课程。
The initiative, with classes taught by several female officers, also includes summer and winter camps for women, and a course called “gender sensitization for boys,” a lawyer-led course that teaches men how to help women in trouble and how to be more respectful to them in public spaces. It’s about making them “feel responsible towards girls and women,” Constable Renu said.
这项由几名女警官负责教授的课程计划，还包括女子夏令营和冬令营，以及一个名叫“男子性别敏感”的课程。该课程由律师带领，教导男性如何帮助有困难的女性，如何在公众场合更加尊重女性。这让他们“对姑娘们和女性更有责任感”，康斯特布尔·雷努说。
Booked solid for the next six months, Constable Renu said she has never been busier, as anxiety among women and girls grows with a stream of news headlines describing brutal assaults across the country, including recent national outrage after an 8-year-old girl was kidnapped, gang raped and murdered.
包括最近引起了全国强烈抗议的八岁女孩被绑架、轮奸、杀害事件在内，一连串新闻标题说的都是全国各地的残忍侵犯，这加重了女性的焦虑。往后六个月的课程因此全被订满，康斯特布尔·雷努表示自己从未如此忙碌过。
Since a 23-year-old woman, Jyoti Pandey Singh, was beaten, gang raped and fatally injured while riding a bus in the capital in 2012, women here have been on edge. That attack prompted intense soul-searching and a fierce public debate about an issue that, though long pervasive, was seldom addressed. It also gave many women the courage to come forward and demand justice in such assaults, rather than suffer in silence, too ashamed to speak up.
自2012年，一名23岁的女性乔蒂·潘迪·辛格(Jyoti Pandey Singh)在印度首都乘坐公交时遭到殴打、轮奸和致命伤害之后，女性都十分紧张。那次袭击促使人们对这个长期存在，却又很少提及的问题展开了深刻的反省和激烈的公开讨论。这也使女性在这样的侵犯中，有了站出来要求正义的勇气，而不只是沉默忍受、羞于发声。
On a recent Tuesday morning, at the Navjeevan Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya school, widely known as NSKV, Constable Renu led about 180 girls, aged 11 to 17, through possible scenarios of men grabbing them from behind as they walked down the street, striking a blow to their heads or lunging for their necks. In each case, the girls responded with the moves they had been taught to deflect such attacks — grunting, kicking and punching in unison.
在最近一个周二的上午，康斯特布尔·雷努在NSKV(Navjeevan Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya)学校里带领着大约180个年龄在11岁到17岁不等的女孩过了一遍可能发生的场景，比如当她们走在街上时被男人从身后抓住，打了她们脑袋一拳，或是扑向她们的脖子。在每个场景中，女孩都会用之前学过的化解动作进行反击——她们一齐低吼、踢腿、出拳。
“The first move we teach them in the class is how to make a full-throated cry for help when they are attacked,” Constable Renu said, explaining that the girls tend to be reserved, making it hard for them to make the ruckus needed to alert others that they are in distress.
康斯特布尔·雷努说，“我们在课堂上教她们的第一个动作就是如何在被袭击时高声喊叫。”她解释，女孩子往往比较矜持，很难制造出足够的动静，警告他人自己正处于危难之中。
“To be able to make such a sound is empowering in itself,” she said.
“能发出这样的声音本身已经非常有力了，”她说。
A newcomer to New Delhi, I have been struck by the caution I’ve been advised to exercise, and the grim warnings issued. A few weeks ago, I took my young son to a public park, watching as he gravitated to a young boy who was being tended to by his grandparents, visiting from Kolkata. They spoke about their frequent trips to the capital to visit their daughter and her children.
作为初来新德里的人，我震惊于那些让我小心的建议和发布的严肃告诫。几个星期前，我带着我的小儿子去了一个公共公园，看着他走向了另一个由祖父母照看的小男孩。他的外祖父母是从加尔各答过来小住的。他们谈到常常会来首都看望女儿和她的孩子。
“Thank god we have grandsons — Delhi is no place for a young girl,” the grandfather said, his wife nodding in agreement. The sentiment struck me not as sexist, but as one of genuine fear, as they listed their concerns and nightmare scenarios.
“感谢老天让我们有的是外孙——德里不是年轻女孩能住的地方，”外祖父说道，他的妻子点头同意。这样的观点令我震惊，不是因为这是性别歧视，而是因为这是一种真正的担忧。他们细数了他们的忧虑和噩梦般的场景。
Back in the classroom, Mona Shamsher, a 16-year-old student, showed me her favorite move as she crouched into a sumo-squat, a two-fisted punch to the gut.
教室里，16岁的学生莫娜·沙姆谢尔(Mona Shamsher)给我展示了她最喜欢的动作，她半蹲做出相扑式深蹲的姿势，双拳并用向腰腹出击。
“I like it because it’s good for my height,” she said.
“我喜欢这个动作，因为它适合我的身高，”她说。
“For an uppercut punch, I’d have to jump like this,” she chuckled, as her small frame, no more than 5 feet tall, leapt into the air to strike an imaginary attacker.
“要想打出上勾拳，我得这么跳，”她小声笑道，她不超5英尺（约合1.52米）的小身板在空中跳了起来，向假想的袭击者打去。
Since her older sister was assaulted while walking alone in their neighborhood last year, Mona said, she had not felt safe on the streets until this month, when her school offered the self-defense course.
莫娜说，自从她的姐姐去年在附近一个人走路时受到了袭击之后，她就不再觉得街道安全了，直到这个月她学习了学校提供的自我防卫课程。
“At this time, girls aren’t safe,” she said. “Men treat us like we aren’t human.”
“现在，女孩不安全，”她说。“男人不把我们当人对待。”
But she added, a clenched fist grinding into the palm of her open hand, “this gives me confidence.”
但她把一只紧握的拳头用力压在张开的那个手掌上，补充说，“这给了我信心”。