Indonesia, one of the world’s biggest producers of minerals including gold, nickel, copper, tin and thermal coal, implemented a new law Sunday banning the export of unprocessed ore.
印度尼西亚于上周日颁行了一项新法律，禁止出口未经加工的矿石。该国是全球黄金、镍、铜、锡和热能煤的最大产地之一。
Analysts said the ban would have little impact on global supply because the Indonesian government passed a regulation Saturday night that would allow international mining firms to continue such exports until at least 2017.
分析人士说，这项禁令对全球矿石供应的影响微乎其微，原因是印尼政府于上周六晚通过了一项法规，该规定允许国际矿业公司继续从事此类出口，至少到2017年为止。
“Starting at midnight on Jan. 12, 2014, raw ore definitely cannot be exported," Jero Wacik, the minister of energy and mineral resources, told reporters late Saturday after a meeting led by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.
上周六晚，在总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)主持召开的会议结束之后，印尼能源和矿产资源部长耶罗·瓦席克(Jero Wacik)对记者说，“自2014年1月12日凌晨起，原矿石绝对不能出口。”
The regulation Mr. Yudhoyono issued, however, could ease the ban’s impact on major mining companies, including the American giants Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold and the Newmont Mining Corporation, Teuku Faizasyah, a presidential spokesman, said Sunday.
不过，总统发言人特库·费扎亚(Teuku Faizasyah)周日表示，尤多约诺宣布的前述法规能缓和禁令对主要矿业公司的影响，其中包括美国矿业巨头自由港迈克墨伦铜金矿公司(Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold)和纽蒙特矿业公司(Newmont Mining Corporation)。
He referred requests for further comment to the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and the office of Hatta Rajasa, Indonesia’s coordinating minister for economic affairs.
他把外界的进一步置评请求转给了能源和矿业资源部，以及负责协调经济事务的部长哈达·拉亚萨(Hatta Rajasa)的办公室。
Details of the presidential regulation have not been released, but mining companies will reportedly be obligated to build smelting facilities by 2017. In the meantime, they can still export unprocessed ore. Those companies, however, say building smelters is not economically viable.
总统法规的细节尚未公布，不过根据报道，矿业公司必须在2017年之前建立冶炼厂。与此同时，他们依然可以出口未经加工的矿石。然而，这些公司表示，建立冶炼厂从经济上说不划算。
“Not only Freeport and Newmont, but we have 66 companies that have said they will build smelters," Mr. Wacik said, according to the Reuters news agency. "These will get a chance to export processed minerals." He added, "The energy ministry will later give more details on the levels of concentrate allowed.”
据路透社(Reuters)报道，瓦席克说，“承诺建造冶炼厂的不只有自由港迈克默伦和纽蒙特，已有66家公司表示将建造冶炼厂。”他还说，“这些公司将获得出口加工矿石的机会。关于国家批准的精矿出口纯度，能源部将来会公布更多细节。”
Concentrate refers to the amount of a pure mineral in ore. The law originally banned any ore that was less than 100 percent pure.
精矿纯度指的是矿石所含矿物成分的比例。印尼法律原本禁止出口任何纯度低于100%的矿石。
Indonesia produces more than 15 percent of the global nickel supply and 3 percent of the global copper supply, according to various estimates.
根据多种估计数字，印尼的镍产量和铜产量分别占全球供应量的15%和3%以上。
Government officials have said the ban is aimed at increasing value-added industries in Indonesia’s economy by requiring miners to build smelters in the country, but the policy has been roundly criticized by both foreign and domestic companies as short-sighted and nationalistic. Some say it is driven by political motives ahead of legislative and presidential elections this year.
印尼政府官员已表示，此次禁令旨在提升印尼经济中增值产业的比重，方法是要求矿主在国内建造冶炼厂，然而，国内外企业均对这项政策提出了严厉指责，斥责其目光短浅，带有民族主义色彩。一些人表示，该政策选在今年的议会选举和总统选举之前出台，是受了政治动机的驱使。
Industry experts noted that the export ban had been in the works since a mining law was passed in 2009, but that Mr. Yudhoyono’s government, apparently realizing the potential impact that it could have on jobs, taxes and royalties, had only created uncertainty and confusion by granting a reprieve until 2017.
业界专家指出，自2009年采矿法出台以来，该出口禁令一直处于准备阶段，然而，尤多约诺政府似乎知道出口禁令可能会对就业、税收及矿区使用费产生影响，因此准许将禁令暂缓至2017年，这一举措带来的只是不确定性和疑惑。
“The most significant metal producers shouldn’t expect any negative impact," said Bill Sullivan, a lawyer and mining industry adviser in Jakarta. "The real story is how the government could have left it to the night before to come to grips with this. It’s been an appalling failure of government policy making.”
“最重要的金属生产商不会受到任何负面影响，”雅加达律师、采矿业顾问比尔·沙利文(Bill Sullivan)说。“真正的问题是政府怎么能久拖不决，直到前一晚才开始认真处理。这是政府决策的严重失败。”
Mr. Sullivan said that midsize nickel and bauxite miners could be unfairly hurt the most by the new regulation if companies hired to build smelting facilities failed to do so by 2017.
沙利文表示，新规定对中型镍、铝土岩矿的矿工造成的伤害最大，如果那些受雇建造冶炼厂的公司没能在2017年完工的话。
“Why should they be penalized if the third party they were relying on hasn’t built the smelter?” he said.
他说，“如果他们依靠的第三方没有建成冶炼厂，为什么要惩罚他们？”
Marwan Batubara, director of Indonesian Resources Studies, a nongovernmental organization in Jakarta specializing in public policy, accused the Indonesian government of “surrendering” to pressure from large international mining companies in allowing ore exports to continue as usual until 2017.
印度尼西亚资源研究中心(Indonesian Resources Studies)主任马尔万·巴图巴拉(Marwan Batubara)指责印尼政府“屈服于”大型国际矿业公司的压力，允许它们在2017年之前照常出口矿石。这个位于雅加达的非政府组织专门研究公共政策。
Because of that, he said he did not expect any noticeable impact in global supply of minerals from Indonesia like nickel and bauxite. China, for example, is a major importer of Indonesian nickel.
他表示，有鉴于此，他预计新规定不会对镍、铝土岩等印尼矿石的国际供应产生明显影响。举例来说，中国就是印尼镍矿的一个主要进口国。
“By allowing the export of concentrate of gold and silver and other minerals, the government is not following the law," Mr. Marwan said. "They are playing with the content percentage."
“政府允许出口高纯度黄金、银及其他矿物，因此就没有遵循法律，”马尔万说，“他们利用百分含量做文章。”
“I don’t think the supply situation will be big, because it’s not being 100 percent applied," he added. "I don’t think it will influence the market very much. We can say this is business as usual.”
“我觉得供应形势不会非常严峻，因为禁令没有得到百分之百的执行，”他说，“我觉得这对市场的影响不会太大。我们可以说，一切还是老样子。”
Mr. Marwan also said that he expected the parties involved would challenge Mr. Yudhoyono’s ore export regulation with the Indonesian Supreme Court, which last week struck down portions of a separate government regulation related to the 2009 mining law, adding further confusion to what analysts say is a heavily politicized sector.
马尔万还表示，他认为有关各方会通过印度尼西亚最高法院(Indonesian Supreme Court)来挑战尤多约诺的矿石出口法规，该法院上周否决了另一项与2009年采矿法有关的政府法规的部分内容，致使人们对这个分析人士所谓的严重政治化的产业更感困惑。
Meanwhile, Industry Minister M.S. Hidayat said that the government would impose taxes on mineral exports until 2017, when companies would have built smelters.
与此同时，工业部长希达亚特(Hidayat)表示，政府将对出口矿物征税，直到各公司建成冶炼厂的2017年为止。