The Indian authorities on Saturday arrested 15 people in connection with the gang rape and killing of a teenage girl, the latest in a recent string of high-profile crimes against women that have set off heated debates about the handling of sexual assaults in the country.
印度当局周六逮捕15人，他们涉嫌与一起16岁少女被轮奸和杀害的案件有关，这是最近该国一系列针对妇女的高调罪行中的最新一例，引发了关于该如何处理性侵事件的激烈辩论。
The authorities said a group of men raped the 16-year-old girl multiple times after kidnapping her from Chatra, a village in the state of Jharkhand, in eastern India, while she was attending a family member’s wedding on Thursday.
官方称一群男子周四在印度东部贾坎德邦的一个村庄绑架了这名16岁的少女，随后多次对其进行强奸。被绑架时，这名少女正在参加一个家庭成员的婚礼。
When the girl was let go the next day, the authorities said, village leaders imposed a fine of about $750 on Dhanu Singh Bhuiyan, the young man who was said to have orchestrated her abduction.
当局称，当女孩在第二天被放走时，该村的官员们对绑架了女孩的年轻人达努·辛格·布延(Dhanu Singh Bhuiyan)处以750美元的罚款。
That ruling angered Mr. Bhuiyan and some of the other men in the community, and they beat the girl’s family for complaining about the treatment of their daughter.
这一裁决激怒了布延和社区内的其他一些男子，他们殴打女孩的家人，因为他们向官方报告了在女儿身上发生的事。
While the girl’s family argued with community members, Mr. Bhuiyan, who lived near the victim and knew her well, slipped away from the crowd, cornered the girl in her home and lit her on fire.
当女孩的家人与这些男子争吵时，布延从人群中溜走，将女孩堵在家中，放火烧了她。布延与女孩住得很近，和她很熟。
The authorities said at least two of the 15 in custody were village leaders accused of tampering with evidence and meting out their own fines and punishments instead of reporting the crime to the police.
印度当局表示，15名在押人员中至少有两名是该村的官员，他们被指控篡改证据及擅自罚款，而没有向警方报案。
“I think it is a degradation in society as a whole for people to take the law into their own hands,” said Jitendra Kumar Singh, the deputy commissioner of police in Chatra.
Mr. Bhuiyan, who initially escaped through a window after he killed the girl, was captured on Saturday, Mr. Singh said.
该村庄的警察局副局长吉坦德拉·库玛·辛格(Jitendra Kumar Singh)说：布延在杀死女孩后从窗户逃走了，后来于周六被捕。
Last month, the killing of an 8-year-old girl from a nomadic community in northern India ignited protests across the country and provoked political fallout for the government, including the resignation of two high-level officials from the governing party.
上个月，印度北部一个8岁大的女孩被杀，引发了全国各地的抗议活动，执政党两名高级官员辞职。
Critics said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and members of his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party failed to speak out forcefully against the crime. The girl, who was Muslim, was gang raped and murdered by a group of Hindu men in January, and Hindu nationalists in the area rallied around the accused to protect them from prosecution.
批评者称，印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)和他所在的执政党成员没有发声谴责这一罪行。那名穆斯林女孩在1月份遭到一群印度教徒的轮奸和杀害，该地区的印度教民族主义者围绕着被告人进行集会，以保护他们免受起诉。
In the wake of that attack, headlines in the Indian news media have been dominated by other horrific crimes against women, including the molestation last week of a teenage girl by a group of men who recorded it on video.
在那次袭击事件之后，印度新闻媒体一直在刊登其他可怕的针对妇女的罪行，其中包括上周在视频中被记录下来的、一群男子对一名少女的骚扰。
Public debates have focused on how courts should punish crimes of this nature, with the Indian government pushing for applying the death penalty to rapists of young children. The rape conviction rate has remained persistently low in India, and millions of cases are stuck in an overburdened court system.
公众辩论的重点在于法院该如何惩罚这种性质的罪行。印度政府正在推动对强奸幼童者处以死刑。该国的强奸罪定罪率一直很低。