MUMBAI, India — Under a fingernail moon at Sassoon Docks, Parumati Mangela, a fisherwoman, sat on her haunches, grimacing. Something strange is happening over the Arabian Sea, she said: “The sky is getting hot more and more,” perhaps because something has angered the goddess Lakshmi.
印度孟买——弯月当空，渔女帕努马提·曼吉拉(Parumati Mangela)蹲坐在沙逊码头，面露不安神色。阿拉伯海发生了奇怪的事情，她说：“天气越来越热，”也许是什么事激怒了拉克希米(Lakshmi)女神。
As Mangela rounded up village women to pray at the water's edge, state fisheries scientists were tracking worrying changes deep below, where in the last half century average surface temperatures have risen three-tenths of a degree Celsius, or half a degree Fahrenheit. This warming is driving familiar species into cooler waters, they say, replaced by species traditionally found hundreds of miles to the south, like Indian mackerel and oil sardines.
曼吉拉把村里的妇女召集到一起，在水边进行祈祷，而对这种令人担忧的变化，印度渔业科学家进行了深入追踪，在过去的半个世纪里，海水表面的平均温度上升了半个华氏度，相当于0.3摄氏度。他们说，由于升温，人们熟悉的物种迁徙到了更凉爽的水域，而此前生活在数百英里以南的物种，比如印度马鲛鱼和长头小沙丁鱼，则迁移到了这里。
At the climate talks in Paris, India's negotiators have staked out an adamant position: While India is vulnerable to global warming, raising a vast population out of poverty remains the national priority. The government plans to double use of domestic coal to more than a billion tons by 2019, and maintains that the legal obligation for action on climate change should fall on developed countries, which burned huge amounts of fossil fuels for decades.
在巴黎举行的气候谈判中，印度谈判代表表达了坚定的立场：虽然印度很容易受到全球气候变暖的冲击，但让广大人口摆脱贫困仍然是印度的政策重点。印度政府计划到2019年，让国内煤炭消耗量翻一番，达到逾10亿吨，并同时坚称，对气候变化采取行动的法律义务应该由发达国家担当，因为它们数十年来使用了大量的化石燃料。
But few countries have so much at stake as India. For the last month, the front pages of major newspapers have been dominated by one environmental crisis after another: City-dwellers are up in arms about hazardous levels of air pollution, which has already damaged the lungs of about half of Delhi's schoolchildren. And last month brought torrential rains and flooding in the southern city of Chennai, evoking the erratic weather that climate experts warn about.
但很少有哪个国家像印度这样容易遭受气候变化的危害。上个月，该国主要报纸的头版被一个接一个的环境危机所占据：城市居民极力反对严重的空气污染，德里大约一半的学童，肺部已经遭受了损害。上个月，印度南部城市钦奈遭遇了暴雨和洪灾，气候专家曾警告过会出现这种难以预测的天气。
“People are experiencing far more, and the impacts are far more severe,” said Arivudai Nambi Appadurai, a climate risk specialist for the World Resources Institute, whose family weathered the flood in Chennai. “It is right there in front of them. You experience it, you believe it. It's not something happening far away that you read about in the newspaper.”
“人们经历的冲击要多得多，其影响程度也要严重得多。事情就摆在他们眼前，你经历过就会相信。这不是你在报纸上读到的那种发生在遥远地方的东西，”世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)的气候风险专家阿利乌戴·纳姆比·阿帕度拉(Arivudai Nambi Appadurai)说。他的家人就亲历了钦奈的洪灾。
Ashok Lavasa, secretary of India's Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said negotiators were aware of the impact climate change is having on the country, which includes more than 4,000 miles of coastline and 1,200 islands. But India takes the view that developed countries, like the United States, are historically responsible for the problem, and must take the biggest steps on a solution, a notion enshrined in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Lavasa would like to see that legal divide continue, even though developing economies are expected to become the largest greenhouse gas emitters in the 21st century.
印度环境、林业与气候变化部秘书阿索科·拉瓦萨(Ashok Lavasa)说，谈判者知道气候变化对印度的影响，该国有超过4000英里（约6400公里）长的海岸线和1200座岛屿。但印度认为，像美国这样的发达国家在历史上对这个问题负有责任，必须在解决方案中承担最大的义务，这是1997年的《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)中的一个原则。拉瓦萨希望能继续坚持这样的法律责任划分，即便发展中经济体预计将成为21世纪最大的温室气体排放国。
“When you talk about historic obligations, we are not reinterpreting those agreements,” Lavasa said.
拉瓦萨说，“在谈论历史责任的时候，我们并不是在重新阐释这些协定。”
Four thousand miles from the Paris talks, a familiar smog has settled over India's large cities, reducing the midday sun to a pale, blurry wafer. The pollution, a dangerous mix of suspended particles from kerosene stoves, vehicles, diesel generators and burning crops and firewood, is at the same high level as last year. But awareness has soared, said Joshua S. Apte, an assistant professor of environmental engineering at the University of Texas at Austin, who has studied Delhi's air pollution since 2007.
在巴黎谈判会场的4000英里之外，熟悉的雾霾笼罩了印度的各大城市，让正午的太阳显得苍白而模糊。煤油炉、车辆、柴油发电机，以及燃烧秸秆和木柴产生的悬浮颗粒物混合在一起，形成了这种危险的空气污染，其严重程度与去年持平。但人们的意识已经大大增强，德州大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)的环境工程助理教授约书亚·S·阿普特(Dr. Joshua S. Apte)说。他对2007年以来，印度德里的空气污染状况进行过研究。
Though global warming and air pollution have distinct causes, the issues overlap in the minds of many young urban Indians — the group that is far more likely to support limiting greenhouse gases, the Pew Research Center found in a survey conducted ahead of the climate talks.
虽然全球变暖和空气污染是由不同的原因造成的，但印度很多年轻的城市居民认为，这些问题有重叠的部分。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)在气候谈判开始前进行的调查发现，这一群体支持限制温室气体排放的比例远远更高。
“The media, in a way that couldn't happen in Beijing, has made this such an issue that policy makers can't be seen to be avoiding it,” Apte said.
阿普特表示，“媒体已经使之成为一个严重的问题，政策制定者不能让公众发觉自己在逃避。这样的情况不会出现在北京。”
For farmers and fishermen, the changes associated with a warming climate have emerged gradually.
对于农民和渔民来说，气候变暖带来的变化已经逐渐显现。
Vinay D. Deshmukh, a fisheries scientist who headed a marine research center in Mumbai, recalled his puzzlement around seven years ago, when he first saw boats coming back loaded with oil sardines, a fish whose northernmost range traditionally ended 400 miles to the south. The fish, he said, were “emaciated,” with bulbous heads and little flesh on their bodies. He formed a hypothesis: The sardines, “running away from the hot water to survive,” had wandered so far that they no longer had a familiar stock of phytoplankton.
渔业科学家维纳伊·D·德希穆克(Vinay D. Deshmukh)是孟买一家海洋研究中心的负责人。他回忆起了大约七年前的困惑，当时他第一次看到渔船载着长头小沙丁鱼归来，这种鱼的最北分布区通常在孟买以南400英里处。他说，这些鱼很“消瘦”，头是鼓凸的，身上肉很少。他提出了一个假设：这种沙丁鱼“为了生存逃离了温度较高的海域”，但它们逃得太远，找不到那些熟悉的浮游植物了。
Since then, the oil sardines have expanded their range 900 miles, turning up in the nets of fishermen as far north as Bangladesh. Mumbaikars, meanwhile, showed so little interest in eating sardines that they are now ground up as a supplement for animal feed.
此后，长头小沙丁鱼将活动范围扩展了900英里，出现在北至孟加拉国的渔民的渔网中。但孟买人对这种沙丁鱼不感兴趣，于是把它们碾碎，制成了动物补充饲料。
Chabi Gayakard, scanning the crowd for paying customers at Sassoon dock, shook her head disapprovingly when asked about the sardines.
查比·格亚卡德(Chabi Gayakard)正在沙逊码头寻找愿意付钱的买家。当被问到这种沙丁鱼时，她不以为然地摇了摇头。
“The hotter it gets, the more they come,” she said. “Upper-class people don't eat them.” A friend, standing over the limp body of a dead shark, suggested that God had sent waves of heat as a punishment, after “watching how we humans behave.”
“越热就越多，”她说。“上层人不吃这种鱼。”她的一个朋友看着脚下鲨鱼瘫软的尸体说，神降下了热浪惩罚人类，因为神“看到了我们人类的所作所为”。