The markets on Po Hong Road that spill onto the sidewalks sell fresh meat, fresh fish, fresh vegetables — essentials for the nearly 4,000 kitchens that soar hundreds of feet above in the publicly subsidized Hong Kong housing estate called Beverly Garden.
宝康路市场上的摊位已经挤进了人行道上，他们出售着新鲜的肉类、鱼类和蔬菜——这是政府补贴的香港富康花园小区里近4000户家庭的厨房必需品。
Among the hundreds of shoppers there on a typical evening are the many Indonesian domestic servants — euphemistically called “helpers” — who share the tiny apartments with local families in the 10 grim, gray, Soviet-style towers.
傍晚，这里通常会有数百顾客，其中许多是印度尼西亚籍的家政服务员，即“佣工”。在这10栋阴森的苏联式灰色塔楼里，他们和本地的家庭共同住在狭小公寓里。
For eight months, one of those Indonesian servants, Erwiana Sulistyaningsih, lived on the 38th floor in one of Beverly Garden’s buildings. Never once did she shop on Po Hong Road. Never once did she spend her Sundays with friends alongside the waterfront bike paths that lace Tseung Kwan O, a neighborhood in the New Territories of Hong Kong.
在八个月的时间里，印尼佣工艾维亚纳·苏里斯特亚宁斯(Erwiana Sulistyaningsih)一直住在富康花园一栋建筑的38层。她一次也没有在宝康路上买过东西，而且也从来没有和朋友们在香港新界将军澳地区附近的海滨自行车道度过一个礼拜天。
In eight months, she only left the 592-square-foot apartment twice. Once was when she tried to run away after discovering she would not be paid for her labor. A final time was in January 2014. That is when her employer put her in a diaper because Ms. Erwiana was too weak to use the toilet, dressed her in six layers of clothes to hide her emaciated body, and slathered her in makeup to hide the bruises on her face. Then she drove Ms. Erwiana to the airport and put her on a flight to Jakarta.The employer, Law Wan-tung, 44, was convicted on Feb. 10 on 18 counts, including inflicting “grievous bodily harm” on Ms. Erwiana. She is set to be sentenced this Friday.
在这八个月里，她只离开过这个592平方英尺（约合55平方米）的公寓两次。第一次是她在发现领不到工资后试图逃跑。第二次是在2014年1月。这一次，雇主给她穿上了尿布——因为她太虚弱无法去上厕所，还给她穿了六层衣服来掩盖她消瘦的身体，在她的脸上化了浓妆以遮盖瘀伤。然后，她开车送艾维亚纳去了机场，把她送上了飞往雅加达的航班。这个名叫罗允彤(Law Wan-tung)的雇主今年44岁，2月10日被宣布18项罪名成立，包括对艾维亚纳施以“严重身体伤害”。她将于本周五接受宣判（本文最初发表于2015年2月24日。——编注）。
The case brought renewed international attention to the situation of migrant domestic workers in Hong Kong, where more than 300,000 women, overwhelmingly from Indonesia and the Philippines, take care of the young and the elderly and, like Ms. Erwiana, clean homes. By law, they are relegated to a second-class status: forced to live with their employers, often in tiny apartments like the one in Beverly Garden. With working hours that often exceed 70 hours per week, their pay is a small fraction of the minimum wage.
这桩案件再次引发了全世界对香港外籍家庭佣工处境的关注。在香港，超过30万名女性从事着照顾老人和小孩，以及像艾维亚纳这样打扫家庭卫生的工作。她们主要来自印尼和菲律宾。根据法律规定，她们只有二等公民的地位：被迫与她们的雇主一起生活，而且往往是在富康花园这种很小的公寓里。她们的每周工作时长常常超过70个小时，薪水远远低于最低工资水平。
The women keep coming to Hong Kong because, even though their wages are low and working conditions far from ideal, they can earn much more than back home. Many send remittances to parents, siblings and children.
这些女性还是源源不断地来到香港，这是因为即便工资很低，工作条件也谈不上理想，她们的收入却比在国内高得多。许多人还能寄钱给父母、兄弟姐妹和孩子。
But the women, young, poor and too often ignorant of their rights, are vulnerable to gross exploitation by employers and by placement agencies in Hong Kong and in Indonesia. A 2013 survey of Indonesian domestic workers in Hong Kong by Amnesty International found widespread physical and sometimes sexual abuse.
不过，这些年轻、贫穷且常常不知道维护自己权利的女性，很容易受到雇主以及香港和印尼的中介机构的严重剥削。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)2013年对香港的印尼籍家庭佣工的调查显示，她们普遍受到身体上的虐待，有时还会遭到性侵。
Ms. Erwiana’s case was extreme, but her life circumstances were not. In an hourlong interview, she described how she became a modern-day slave. She spoke in her native Bahasa Indonesia, translated into English by Eni Lestari, an activist pushing for better treatment for migrant workers.
艾维亚纳的例子比较极端，但她的人生际遇并非独例。在长达一小时的采访中，她讲述了自己是如何在现代社会成为奴隶的。她讲的是母语印尼语，由推动改善外籍劳工待遇的活动人士埃尼·莱斯塔里(Eni Lestari)翻译成了英语。
Ms. Erwiana comes from an extremely poor family that lives in a small village in the middle of Java, the most populous island in Indonesia. Her father, a farmer, told The South China Morning Post in an interview that he makes less than $300 a year growing chili peppers. She worked as a waitress in Jakarta, the capital, “but my income wasn’t enough to send money home to my family,” she said. Her family needed that income to pay school fees for her younger brother.
艾维亚纳来自一个极端贫困的家庭，全家生活在爪哇岛中部的一个小村子里。爪哇岛是印尼人口最多的岛屿。她的父亲是一个农民，他在接受《南华早报》采访时说，自己靠种植辣椒为生，每年的收入不到300美元（约合1880元人民币）。艾维亚纳曾在印尼首都雅加达当过服务员，“但我的收入不够往家里寄钱的，”她说。家里需要这份收入来为弟弟交学费。
So she decided, like hundreds of thousands of her compatriots, to become a domestic worker in Hong Kong. Here, she would earn at least $530 a month. But first, she would have to pay back the fees for the training courses that all domestic workers are required to take. That would take away more than half of her monthly pay for the first six months of her time in Hong Kong.
因此，她决定像数十万同胞一样，到香港当一名家庭佣工。在这里，她每月至少可以赚530美元。但起初，她需要偿还培训课程的费用。所有家庭佣工都需要接受培训。她在香港的前六个月，每月有超过一半的收入都会偿还培训费。
She arrived in Hong Kong in May 2013. She was given an Indonesian-language pamphlet at the airport that explained her rights as a foreign domestic worker, but, she says, her Hong Kong employment agency took it from her. Soon she had her first look at Ms. Law.
她是2013年5月到香港的。在机场，有人给了她一本印尼语的小册子，介绍她作为一名外国家政服务人员的权利。但她说，那本小册子被香港的职业介绍所拿走了。很快，她便和罗允彤见了第一面。
“She looked like a person who was always angry,” Ms. Erwiana said. “She wasn’t smiling.”
“她看起来好像是个总在生气的人，”艾维亚纳说。“她不笑。”
The work schedule was strange from the outset. She was only allowed to sleep for a few hours in the afternoons, on the floor in a closet. Ms. Law told Ms. Erwiana that if she broke anything in the house she would have to pay for it. Ms. Law closely supervised her as she cleaned bathrooms, floors, cabinets, shelves, doors, windows, tables, mattresses. Every day.
从一开始，她的工作时间就有些奇怪。她只能下午在一间储藏室的地上睡几个小时。罗允彤对她说，如果打碎了家里的东西，她必须赔钱。在她打扫卫生间、地板、柜子、架子、门、窗户、桌子和床垫时，罗允彤都会仔细监督。天天如此。
“She made a schedule for my work, saying how long I spent cleaning certain items. And I had to follow that schedule exactly.”
“她安排我的工作时间，决定我用多长时间打扫某个地方。我必须严格遵照她的安排。”
Ms. Law lived there with her son and daughter, both teenagers. Her husband never showed up in the eight months that Ms. Erwiana lived there.
罗允彤和两个十几岁的儿女生活在一起。在艾维亚纳住在那里的八个月期间，她丈夫从未出现过。
As bad as the conditions were, the prospect of earning thousands of Hong Kong dollars kept her there. But after a month, Ms. Erwiana said she did not receive her pay. She decided to leave.
尽管条件恶劣，但能挣到数千港币的希望让她留了下来。不过艾维亚纳说，一个月后自己没拿到工钱。于是她决定离开。
But she had nowhere to go. Her passport had been confiscated. She went down to the security desk in the apartment building’s lobby and called the employment agency.
但她无处可去。她的护照被没收了。她去所在公寓楼大堂的保安前台，给职业介绍所打了电话。
“The agency sent me back to the house because I hadn’t finished paying off my debt,” she said. “I didn’t have any money, I didn’t have my passport, I didn’t know anyone in Hong Kong.”
“职业介绍所把我送回了雇主家里，因为我还没还清债，”她说。“我一分钱都没有，也没有护照，在香港谁都不认识。”
Ms. Erwiana felt “very disappointed” at having to go back, but she felt “there was no choice.”
艾维亚纳对不得不回去感到“非常失望”，但她觉得“别无选择”。
She was an indentured servant slipping into slavery.
她是一名签订了契约的佣人，逐渐陷入了被奴役的状态。
Soon after she tried to run away, Ms. Law started to hit her. The first time, Ms. Law punched her on the mouth.
在她试图逃跑后不久，罗允彤就开始打她。第一次，罗允彤打在了她的嘴上。
“She was angry at me when I fell asleep while I was working,” Ms. Erwiana said.
“我在工作期间睡着了，她很生气，”艾维亚纳说。
Another time, when Ms. Erwiana was on a ladder, cleaning an air-conditioner, Ms. Law grabbed her by her clothes, causing her to fall down onto the floor. Another time, Ms. Law punched her in the mouth, fracturing two of her front teeth. “She hit me on the head with a clothes hanger,” Ms. Erwiana recalled. “I tried to avoid it, so it would usually hit me on the shoulder.” During the trial, Ms. Erwiana testified that in the winter months Ms. Law made her stand for hours at a time in the bathroom, naked and wet, with a fan blowing on her.
另一次，当艾维亚纳站在梯子上清扫空调时，罗允彤抓着她的衣服，使她跌到了地上。还有一次，罗允彤打在她的嘴上，打碎了她的两颗前牙。“她用晾衣架打我的头，”艾维亚纳回忆说。“我尽量躲开，所以常会打在我肩膀上。”庭审期间，艾维亚纳作证说，在冬季那几个月里，罗允彤有时会让她光着湿漉漉的身子在洗手间里站好几个小时，还用风扇对着她吹。
Once, she said, Ms. Law put a vacuum cleaner tube in her mouth, then twisted it, cutting her lips. “I was afraid to report it to the police.”
她说 ，有一次罗允彤把吸尘器的管子塞进她嘴里，然后转动管子，弄破了她的嘴唇。“我害怕报警。”
She was afraid because at one point she took food beyond the rice and six slices of bread that were her normal daily ration, and Ms. Law threatened to report her to the police. Once a week, Ms. Law would also buy her a small package of precooked meat and vegetables. “I was just so hungry,” Ms. Erwiana said. Another time, she knocked on a neighbor’s door at 2:30 a.m., begging for food. He turned her away, testifying at her employer’s trial that he thought she was playing a prank on him.
她之所以害怕，是因为有一次，她除了每天定量的米饭和六片面包外，还拿了其他东西吃，罗允彤就此威胁，要向警方举报她。罗允彤每周还会给她买一小包未经烹饪的肉和蔬菜。“我就是太饿了，”艾维亚纳说。还有一次，她在凌晨两点半敲邻居家的门要吃的。对方拒绝了她，并在她的雇主受审时作证说，他当时以为艾维亚纳在作弄自己。
In the eight months in Hong Kong, Ms. Erwiana only spoke to her family in Indonesia once. The agency contacted Ms. Law and told Ms. Erwiana to contact her father. Ms. Law was next to her when she called. “I didn’t want my father to be worried, and I was afraid of threats, so I told my father that I was fine.”
在香港的八个月里，艾维亚纳只和印尼的家人通过一次话。职业介绍所联系到她，让她联系她的父亲。她打电话时，罗允彤就在她身边。“我不想让父亲担心，而且我也害怕遭到威胁，所以我对父亲说我挺好的。”
In court, Ms. Erwiana testified that Ms. Law threatened her and her family with harm if she ever talked about her treatment.
在法庭上作证时，艾维亚纳表示，罗允彤威胁称，如果她敢谈论自己的遭遇，就会伤害她和她的家人。
The beatings, the stress, the very poor diet and the lack of food were taking its toll, and Ms. Erwiana’s body began to break down. She stopped menstruating. A skin condition was exacerbated by the daily, constant use of cleaning solvents, including bleach. Ms. Erwiana was forbidden to use gloves when she was cleaning: “She said if I used gloves I couldn’t clean properly.”
受到毒打、承受压力、恶劣的膳食、忍饥挨饿，都对艾维亚纳产生了影响，她的身体开始垮掉了。她停经了，由于每天都要长时间使用清洁剂，包括漂白剂，所以她的皮肤病也加剧了。罗允彤禁止艾维亚纳在清洁时戴手套：“她说我如果戴手套，就擦不干净了。”
The apartment had two small bathrooms, but Ms. Erwiana was only allowed to relieve herself twice a day. To minimize her need to urinate, Ms. Law only permitted her to drink one 450-milliliter, or 15-ounce, bottle of boiled water a day. She was told to urinate into a plastic bag or bucket. “If I used the toilet, I was told I was wasting my time, because I would then have to clean it, and I was here for work.”
公寓中有两个小厕所，但艾维亚纳却只被允许每天上两次厕所。为了减少小解的需求，罗允彤只允许她每天喝一瓶煮开过的水，即450毫升。她被要求在塑料袋或桶里小解。“我要是用马桶的话，她就会跟我说我浪费了时间，因为我还要刷，而我来这儿是要干活的。”
“She didn’t want anything to be dirty,” Ms. Erwiana said of Ms. Law.
“她不想让任何东西变脏，”艾维亚纳形容罗允彤时说。
She would work 20 hours a day and, she said, she was never paid for her labor.
她说自己每天要工作20个小时，而且从来没有因为她的劳动得到过报酬。
Near the end, Ms. Erwiana’s body completely broke down. “I was not able to work at all.”
快到结束时，艾维亚纳的身体已经完全崩溃。“我一点也不能干活了。”
One day in January last year, Ms. Law took her to the airport.
去年1月的一天，罗允彤把她带到了机场。
“She put Pampers on me, and six layers of clothes,” Ms. Erwiana said. Then Ms. Law put makeup on Ms. Erwiana’s face and combed her hair, tying it up. “She asked the daughter, ‘Is it O.K. like this?’ and the daughter said, ‘Yes, that’s O.K.’”
艾维亚纳说，“她让我穿上纸尿裤，又穿了六层衣服。”之后罗允彤往艾维亚纳脸上化妆，又梳好她的头发系了起来。“她问她女儿，‘这样还好吗？’她女儿说，‘蛮好的。’”
The taxi driver who drove them testified in court that Ms. Erwiana reeked of urine and feces. She was heading back to Indonesia, and Ms. Law warned her that her family would be harmed if she told them about her experience. She was given her passport back and received what amounted to less than $10 for expenses, the only pay Ms. Law ever gave her in eight months.
载她们去机场的出租车司机在法庭上作证说，艾维亚纳身上散发着大小便的臭味。当时，她即将飞回印尼。罗允彤警告她，如果敢告诉家人她的经历，就会伤害她的家人。艾维亚纳拿回了她的护照，还收到了折合不足10美元的钱以供花销，这是罗允彤在八个月的时间里，唯一一次向她付钱。
After passing through immigration, Ms. Erwiana somehow found her gate. It was midnight. The airport, normally bustling, was nearly empty.
在经过出境检查后，艾维亚纳艰难地找到了自己的登机口。那时已是深夜，通常人头攒动的机场里空空荡荡。
Some other Indonesians at the gate noticed her, and they asked her where she was from and what had happened to her. She told them she had been assaulted. They asked to see her passport. One told Ms. Erwiana that she lived near her home in Indonesia.
那个登机口的其他印尼人注意到了她，询问她从哪里来，遭遇了什么。她告诉她们自己遭到了毒打。他们要求看看她的护照，之后一名女子告诉艾维亚纳，两人在印尼的家相距不远。
Then a gate change was announced. Ms. Erwiana couldn’t walk.
之后，机场通知更改登机口，但艾维亚纳无法行走。
“They wheeled me on a baggage trolley to the new gate.”
“他们用行李车把我推到了新的登机口。”
When she arrived home in Indonesia, shocked friends and family, seeing her bruised and emaciated body, told her she must go to the hospital.
她回到印尼的家中时，朋友和家人见到她满是瘀伤的瘦弱身躯都十分震惊，告诉她必须去医院。
“But I refused. Because I didn’t want to burden my parents, because they could not afford the hospital fee,” she said. “My father said, ‘It’s O.K., we’ll try to find a way of paying the fee.’”
“但是我拒绝了，因为我不想让父母增加负担，因为他们付不起去医院的钱，”她说。“我父亲说，‘没关系，我们会想方设法筹钱。’”
Pictures of her at the hospital quickly caused an uproar in Indonesia and Hong Kong. Days later, Ms. Law was arrested at the airport as she was about to leave for Thailand.
她去医院就诊的照片很快就在印尼和香港掀起轩然大波。几天后，罗允彤在准备离港前往泰国时，在机场被捕。
“I can forgive her, but she must be punished, because that will teach other employers in Hong Kong and elsewhere not to abuse their employees. Domestic workers are really treated like slaves,” Ms. Erwiana said.
“我可以原谅她，但她必须受到惩罚，因为这样可以让香港和其他地方的雇主明白，不能苛待自己的雇员。家庭佣工的境遇真的像奴隶一样，”艾维亚纳说。