CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Two years ago, China seemed oblivious to the extraordinary levels of air pollution in many of its cities and the health consequences. But over the past six months, there has been an explosion of information on pollution concentrations, warnings from the media and new policies from the government. It took a long time, but change is happening.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——就在两年前，中国似乎还对很多城市的严重空气污染及其对健康的影响不闻不问。但在过去的六个月里，关于污染物浓度的信息，来自媒体的警告，以及政府制定的新政策纷至沓来。行动虽然慢了一些，但变化正在发生。
Could India be next? In January, India was startled by the release of the annual country rankings of the Yale Environmental Performance Index, which highlighted its troubling air pollution. The calls for change have started: On Monday, the country’s powerful Supreme Court will hear an amicus plea on the worsening pollution in New Delhi.
印度会成为下一个这样的国家吗？今年1月，耶鲁大学发布了《环境绩效指数》（Environmental Performance Index，简称EPI）年度国家排名，突显了印度令人不安的空气污染状况，令举国震惊。改变的呼声开始响起：周一，印度掌握大权的最高法院(Supreme Court)将就新德里日益严重的污染问题听取法庭之友诉求。
Despite a national election coming in May, air pollution has been largely absent from the debate between the two major political parties, Bharatiya Janata and the Indian National Congress. But many successful Indian environmental policies have come from the Supreme Court, and we encourage it to proceed in this vein by embracing more transparent and flexible market-based regulations to better protect the health of its citizens and allow robust economic growth to continue.
尽管全国大选将于5月开始，但印度两大政党人民党(Bharatiya Janata)和国大党(Indian National Congress)却基本上没有为空气污染问题进行过辩论。不过印度很多成功的环境政策都是由最高法院制定的，我们鼓励他们沿袭这种模式，采纳更加透明、更加灵活、基于市场的法规，更好地保护公民的健康，让强劲的经济增长得以持续。
Particulate matter air pollution, which is produced primarily by power plants, industry and vehicles, is deadly, causing short- and long-term cardiorespiratory problems such as strokes, heart attacks and cancer. Throughout India, the extreme levels of this pollution are cause for concern.
空气污染颗粒物主要由发电厂、工业和车辆排放，会给人体健康带来严重影响。它们会造成急慢性心肺问题，比如中风、突发性心脏病和癌症。在印度，这类污染的严重程度是引发担忧的原因。
According to the most recent data from India’s Central Pollution Control Board, the 2010 average for respirable particulate matter concentration across 180 monitored Indian cities was six times what the World Health Organization considers safe and twice India’s own national standards. And the concentration in Delhi is about 13 times higher than the W.H.O. guideline.
印度中央污染控制管理委员会(Central Pollution Control Board) 的最新数据显示，2010年，180个对空气污染进行了监控的印度城市的平均可吸入颗粒物浓度，是世界卫生组织（World Health Organization，简称WHO）认可的安全水平的6倍，印度本国标准的2倍。德里地区的可吸入颗粒物浓度约为WHO标准的13倍。
A 2013 study (co-written by one of us, Michael Greenstone) measured the effects of particulate matter on life expectancies in China. It found that an additional 100 micrograms per cubic meter of particulate matter in the atmosphere reduced life expectancy at birth by about three years. Using this metric, we estimated that the 200 million people who live in the 180 Indian cities would lose an average of 3.3 years of life because of particulate matter concentrations that exceed India’s standards.
2013年对中国的一项研究（合著者包括本文作者之一迈克尔·格林斯通[Michael Greenstone]）测量了颗粒物对预期寿命的影响。该研究发现，大气中每立方米的颗粒物每增加100微克，人的平均预期寿命就会减少3年左右。根据这个指标，我们预计在这180个印度城市，由于颗粒物浓度超过本国标准，住在这里的2亿人平均寿命将会缩短约3.3年。
This translates into the loss of about 650 million years of life for just the one-sixth of India’s population that lives in these cities. Satellite data makes clear that pollution also exists outside the monitored zones where the other one billion people who make up the rest of India live. So the total loss of life expectancy is much greater.
这些城市里居住着六分之一的印度人口，他们总共损失了约6.5亿年寿命。卫星数据清楚地表明，印度没有对空气进行监控的区域也存在污染，该国的另外10亿人就生活在这些地区。因此，印度人预期寿命的累计损失会远远更高。
The recent decades of economic growth reflected, in part, significant reductions of regulatory constraints, and the fear of slowing growth has reduced the political will to increase regulations on emissions. But India can continue that growth and provide its citizens with a healthier environment by adopting a regulatory system that is both effective and efficient.
印度近几十年来的经济增长部分反映了监管约束的大幅减少，而对经济增长放缓的恐惧削弱了政府出台新的排放法规的意愿。但是，通过采用一套有效和高效的监管体系，印度既可以保持经济增长，又可以向市民提供更健康的环境。
India’s current command-and-control style of regulating is handicapped on both counts. It mandates that industrial plants purchase expensive pollution abatement equipment and specifies common pollution standards across the board. Because emissions reductions are much more costly for some plants than for others, these standards are excessively onerous for some and fail to compel the most cost-effective reductions.
印度目前的命令与控制式监管做法在这两个方面都表现得很糟糕。它要求工厂购买昂贵的污染治理设备，并制定了一刀切的排污标准。由于一些工厂减排成本要比别的工厂高很多，这些标准对部分工厂过于严苛，也无法达到成本效益最佳的减排效果。
Regulators at undersourced pollution control boards must rely on infrequent and often unreliable manual monitoring samplings of emissions by their staffs, which in the best case occur only a couple of times per year, to identify the plants that are violating the standards. As a result, expensive pollution abatement technologies that plants are mandated to install are not used efficiently and sometimes not at all.
在一些缺乏资源的污染控制管理委员会，为了找出排放超标的工厂，监管者只能依赖其员工人工采集的、经常并不可靠的排放样本，而且每年顶多采集几次。因此，工厂必须配备的那些昂贵的减污技术根本没有被有效利用，有时甚至根本不用。
So the outcome is doubly bad: Regulations impose substantial costs on the economy while pollution emissions often exceed the state-mandated limit.
因此造成了双重恶果：监管让经济承担了巨大成本，而排污状况又常常超出国家规定的标准。
Even worse, any violations of these standards are criminal offenses. This means that to penalize violators, regulators must file and win a criminal case in India’s overburdened justice system, making enforcement difficult. So the only potential, swift alternative for regulators is to close down a business — but this, too, is often challenging to enforce.
更糟糕的是，任何违反排污标准的行为都是刑事犯罪。这意味着，为了惩罚违反者，监管者必须在印度不堪重负的司法体系中起诉他们并且胜诉，执行起来颇为困难。因此唯一的可能性，也是对监管者来说较方便的选择，就是关闭排污企业——但这执行起来也很有挑战性。
Cap-and-trade would impose a cost on polluters for every unit of pollution emitted and create incentives to reduce those emissions. At the same time, it would decrease the economic burden of regulation by allowing the regulated firms to coordinate among themselves to hit a specific emissions reduction target in the most cost-effective manner.
排放上限和交易体系将让排污者为所排放的每单位的污染付出代价，从而产生减排的动力。与此同时，通过允许被监管企业相互协调、以最节约成本的方式达到具体的减排目标，排放交易体系还会降低监管造成的经济负担。
In the 1980s, the United States instituted a cap-and-trade market to solve the problem of acid rain; it greatly reduced sulfur-dioxide emissions at a fraction of the projected cost. However, the American experience makes clear that cap-and-trade succeeds only when governments are fully committed to the enforcement of the rules.
上世纪80年代，美国为解决酸雨问题建立了排放交易市场；这极大地降低了二氧化硫排放总量，而成本只是预期的一小部分。然而，从美国的经验可以清晰地看出，只有政府全心全意致力于规定的执行，排放交易市场才能成功。
India has taken initial steps toward implementing cap-and-trade markets for particulate matter pollution. With guidance from the national regulator, some state regulators are already piloting continuous emissions monitoring and training potential participants for cap-and-trade markets. But more support is necessary to get India’s fledgling cap-and-trade markets off the ground.
印度朝着建立颗粒物排放交易市场的目标已经迈出了几步。在国家监管机构的指导下，一些邦的监管者已经尝试不间断的排放监管，并且开始培训潜在的排放交易市场参与者。但是，印度的刚刚起步的排放交易市场要想振翅高飞，还需要更多支持。
When the Supreme Court takes this up on Monday, it should consider two key policy changes that would allow India to more efficiently regulate pollution.
当最高法院周一审理此案时，应该考虑对政策进行两个关键性改动，它们将允许印度更加有效地对污染进行监督。
First, stationary sources, like power and industrial plants, should be required to install continuous emissions monitoring equipment in order to provide reliable real-time reporting of emissions by polluters and to make these data publicly available. While increased transparency about pollution greatly enhances regulators’ effectiveness in its own right, it is also a critical ingredient for a cap-and-trade market.
首先，对固定的污染来源，比如电站和工厂，应该要求安装能够持续检测排放状况的设备，提供排污者的实时排放数据，并且将数据公开。排污透明度的增加不仅会极大地提高监管机构的效率，也是排放交易市场的一个关键组成部分。
The second critical ingredient: Instead of having to take polluters to court for breaking the law, regulators should be authorized to impose financial penalties on firms that breach emissions regulations. The United States’ successful cap-and-trade markets were, in part, made possible by a little-known but very important part of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments that enhanced the Environmental Protection Agency’s ability to levy large civil fines on environmental violators.
第二个关键组成部分：应该让监管机构有权力对违反排放规定的公司实施财务处罚，而不是非得把违法的排污者告上法庭。美国的排放交易市场之所以能获得成功，一定程度要归功于1990年的洁净空气法修正案中一个鲜为人知但非常重要的部分。这部分法案加强了美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)对违反环保规定的人处以巨额民事罚款的能力。
It is also essential that the pilot markets are rigorously evaluated in stages to ensure that regulators and the public are informed about costs and benefits.
同样重要的是，试点市场在各个阶段都应该被严格评估，确保监管者和公众对成本和回报都了如指掌。
Pollution is not simply an unavoidable side effect of economic growth, but a reflection of societal choices. Seizing these opportunities for reform would lead to longer and healthier lives.
污染问题不仅是一个可以避免的经济发展副产品，也是社会选择的写照。抓住这些改革的机会，人们才能拥有更长久、更健康的生命。