MUMBAI — India’s top court on Monday ruled that coal fields allocated by the government between 1993 and 2009 were assigned illegally, a decision that could ultimately hinder the industry.
孟买——周一，印度最高法院判定，印度政府在1993年至2009年间进行的煤田分配是非法的。这个决定很可能最终会阻碍煤炭行业的发展。
The case stems from an incomplete investigation into the allotment of about 200 coal leases by the government to private steel, cement and power companies in India, which began after a report by India’s federal auditor in 2012. The auditor concluded that the process was opaque and cost the government about $30 billion, a figure that has been contested.
2012年，印度联邦审计员发布了一篇报告，随后有关部门开始对印度政府向印度私营钢铁、水泥和电力公司发放的大约200份煤田租约进行调查，目前调查仍未完成。此案便由此而来。审计员称，整个过程非常不透明，导致政府损失了大约300亿美元（约合1846亿元人民币），这个数字仍然存在争议。
The accusations of irregularity in allocating coal fields, called “coalgate” by the Indian media, have been particularly damaging to the former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who headed the coal ministry directly for part of the period under investigation. The former government, led by the Indian National Congress Party, was damaged by wide-ranging accusations of corruption and suffered a resounding defeat in the general election concluded in May.
违规分配煤田——印度媒体称之为“煤门事件”(coalgate)——的指控，尤其会给印度前总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)带来负面影响。他曾在调查进行的一段时期中直接负责印度的煤炭部门。由印度国民大会党(Indian National Congress Party)领导的前政府因为大量贪污指控而受到重创，并且在5月结束的大选中一败涂地。
On Monday, a three-judge special bench led by the India’s chief justice concurred with the federal auditor, saying the process had been marred by a lack of accountability and openness.
周一，由印度首席法官领导的包括三名法官在内的特别小组对联邦审计员的观点表示同意，称煤田的分配过程缺乏问责和透明。
“There was no fair and transparent procedure, all resulting in unfair distribution of the national wealth,” said India’s chief justice, Rajendra Mal Lodha. “Common good and public interest have, thus, suffered heavily.”
“分配过程不公正、不透明，从而导致国家财富分配不公，”印度首席法官拉金德拉·马尔·洛德哈(Rajendra Mal Lodha)说。“所以，公众福利和公共利益就遭到了严重损害。”
Piyush Goyal, the Indian coal and power minister, said that the decision brought clarity, which would be a “big plus for the Indian economy,” Press Trust of India reported. “I think in fact they should have been immensely pleased that the economy can now move forward rapidly rather than being cast with the shadow of uncertainty,” he added.
印度报业托拉斯通讯社(Press Trust of India)报道称，印度煤炭和能源部部长皮尤什·戈亚尔(Piyush Goyal)说，这个决定澄清了事实，这将给“印度经济带来巨大好处”。他还说，“我觉得其实他们应该非常高兴，因为现在经济能迅速向前发展，而不是处在不确定性的阴影之下。”
But an ultimate decision by the court to cancel the leases could paralyze India’s already troubled coal production and prompt energy prices to rise. The court said that it would decide whether to remove the mining rights of coal blocks already assigned on Sept. 1.
但法院废除租约的最终裁决，可能会让印度本就问题丛生的煤炭生产行业陷入瘫痪，并抬升能源价格。该法院表示将按计划于9月1日决定是否取消相关矿区的采矿权。
After the Monday ruling, shares of Hindalco Industries were down 10 percent in India’s benchmark stock exchange. Analysts predicted that the Supreme Court’s ruling next week would further damage steel, power and coal companies.
在周一的判决被宣布后，印度铝工业公司(Hindalco Industries)在印度基准股票交易所的股价下跌10%。分析人士预计，最高法院下周的判决将进一步影响钢铁、电力和煤炭公司。
On Monday, India’s Central Bureau of Investigation said that it would close a related case against Kumar Mangalam Birla, an Indian industrialist, and P.C. Parakh, the former coal secretary, with no finding of wrongdoing.
周一，印度中央调查局(Central Bureau of Investigation)表示将结束一起相关案件。案件起诉的对象是印度实业家库玛·曼格拉姆·贝拉(Kumar Mangalam Birla)和前煤炭部长P·C·帕拉科(P.C. Parakh)。调查未发现贝拉以及印度铝工业公司存在不当行为。
The agency filed the case last year in connection to a coal field allocated in 2005 to Hindalco Industries, a leading producer of primary aluminum in Asia. Mr. Birla, Mr. Parakh and other officials of Hindalco were charged with “criminal conspiracy” and “criminal misconduct” for irregularity in allocation.
该机构于去年提起诉讼，案件牵涉印度铝工业公司在2005年分到的一块煤田。印度铝工业公司是亚洲主要的原铝生产商。贝拉、帕拉科和印度铝工业公司其他一些管理人员被控在违规分配中存在“犯罪密谋”和“犯罪行为”。