CISITU, Indonesia — In the remote mountains of West Java, workers like 15-year-old David Mario Chandra are an integral part of Indonesia’s gold industry.
印度尼西亚芝西图——在西爪哇省的深山里，像15岁的戴维·马里奥·钱德拉(David Mario Chandra)这样的工人是印度尼西亚黄金业不可或缺的一个组成部分。
A workshop next to his family’s house in Cisitu, in Banten Province, contains machinery that turns gold ore into usable nuggets. The procedure seems simple enough: The crushed ore is tumbled with other ingredients in cylinders called balls until the valuable stuff is amalgamated. But there is a crucial material — and a final step — that alarms environmental and health experts around the world.
戴维的家在万丹省的芝西图。紧挨着他家房子的便是一个作坊，作坊里的机器会把金矿石加工成可以用的金块。这个过程看上去非常简单：把压碎的矿石和其他原料放在被称作“球”的圆柱型容器里搅拌，直到黄金被汞齐化。但一种关键的材料——也是最后的步骤——让全世界的环境和卫生专家惴惴不安。
“We put 15 kilograms of gold ore and water into each ball, and we use 100 grams of mercury per ball,” or 3.5 ounces for 33 pounds of ore, said David, who runs the family’s workshop. Workers then purify the nuggets using an open flame, burning off the mercury in sites among residential areas throughout the village.
“我们会在每个球里加入15公斤的金矿石和水，每个球里还会用到100克汞，”经营着这个家庭作坊的戴维说。然后，工人们会用明火提纯金块，在整个村子的居住区里把汞烧掉。
Yuyun Ismawati, an environmental campaigner based in Britain, says the scope of the problem is evident in the amount of mercury being exported from around the world to Indonesia, her home country. Most of it, she says, is brought in illegally.
驻在英国的环保活动人士尤云·伊斯马瓦蒂(Yuyun Ismawati)说，从全世界出口到她的祖国印尼的汞的总量，就能明显地看出这个问题的严重程度。她说，大部分汞都是非法进入印尼的。
“It’s quick cash,” she said. “You dig, you get money — and you get poisoned.”
“这是个快速发财的门道，”她说，“挖到金矿石，就能赚到钱——但也会中毒。”
The quick and dirty production process emits mercury into the atmosphere. The metal has also seeped into soil, rivers, fish ponds and rice fields. Mercury is known to cause health problems, which may not appear for years, that include brain damage; kidney, skin and eye problems; miscarriages; and dysfunctional neurological development in infants and children.
迅速而又肮脏的生产流程把汞排放到了大气中。汞还会渗入土壤、河流、鱼塘和稻田。众所周知，汞会导致健康问题，其中包括脑损伤；肾脏、皮肤和眼部疾病；流产；以及婴幼儿神经发育失调。这些问题可能潜伏数年才会显现。
Then there are the environmental impacts. According to the United Nations Environment Program, small-scale gold mining is responsible for 37 percent of global mercury emissions and is the largest source of air and water mercury pollution.
此外，汞还会影响环境。据联合国环境规划署(United Nations Environment Program)称，在全球汞排放量中，小规模采金活动排放的汞所占的比例为37%，是空气和水中汞污染的最大来源。
According to a study by the Blacksmith Institute, a nonprofit research organization in New York that focuses on pollution, one-tenth of global mercury emissions from such mining originate in Indonesia. Those emissions can spread from country to country and continent to continent.
纽约关注污染问题的非营利性研究机构布莱克史密斯研究所(Blacksmith Institute)发布的一份报告称，在全球范围内，这种采矿活动排放的汞中，有十分之一源自印尼。排放出来的那些汞会在不同国家和大陆之间扩散。
Parts of Indonesia, including the resort island of Lombok, where illegal gold mining is rampant, have the highest mercury contamination readings on earth, according to studies by Blacksmith and other groups.
根据这家研究所和其他一些机构的研究，印尼部分地区的汞污染程度是全球最严重的，其中包括度假圣地龙目岛。在龙目岛，非法采金活动颇为猖獗。
Industrial gold mining companies in Indonesia are forbidden to use mercury during processing, government officials said. They would not anyway, as they can afford safer, more effective alternatives. But the country does not ban mercury use outright in small-scale gold mining operations.
政府官员称，印度尼西亚禁止工业化的黄金开采企业在加工过程中使用汞。不过因为能买得起更安全、更有效的替代品，这些企业本来也不会使用汞。然而，在小规模的黄金开采企业中，印尼并未彻底禁止汞的使用。
The Ministry of Environment is drafting a regulation that it hopes will go into effect in 2014, said Rasio Ridho Sani, the deputy minister of environment for hazardous substances, who is responsible for authorizing official import requests for mercury.
印尼环保部(Ministry of Environment)负责有害物质的副部长拉西奥·里多·萨尼(Rasio Ridho Sani)说，环保部正在起草一项规定，有望在2014年生效。进口贡的正式请求要由他批准。
But Lana Saria, head of environmental protection in the minerals and coal directorate at Indonesia’s Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, said, “We can’t track illegally imported mercury because it can enter so many ports around the country.” 
但印尼能源和矿产资源部(Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources)矿物和煤炭司负责人拉纳·萨里亚(Lana Saria)说，“我们无法追踪非法进口的汞，因为它可以从全国这么多港口进入印尼。”
BaliFokus, an Indonesian environmental organization of which Ms. Yuyun is a co-founder, estimates that illegal gold mining and production areas across the sprawling Indonesian archipelago ballooned to as many as 850 in 2013 from 576 in 2006, while the number of miners rose to one million from 50,000 during the same period.
尤云与人联合创办的印尼环保组织BaliFokus估计，在星罗棋布的印尼群岛，非法进行黄金采挖和加工的地区数量已经从2006年的576个飙升到了2013年的850个，而同一时期，金矿工人的规模也从5万人增加到了100万人。
Indonesia is one of the world’s biggest gold-producing countries. The Grasberg gold mine in Indonesia’s easternmost province, Papua, is the largest anywhere. The country produced 60 metric tons of gold in 2012, said Ms. Saria of the energy ministry. She estimated, however, that 65 to 100 metric tons of gold were illegally produced in 2012 by small-scale gold miners who use mercury, costing Indonesia billions of dollars in royalties and taxes. Officials and environmental observers say it is nearly impossible to track the illegal gold; it can be easily traded or sold.
印尼是世界上最大的黄金生产国之一。位于印尼最东部省份巴布亚的格拉斯堡(Grasberg)金矿是世界上最大的金矿。能源部官员萨里亚说，2012年，印尼生产了60吨黄金。但是据她估计，2012年使用汞进行生产的小型金矿共生产了65到100吨左右的黄金，印尼由此损失了数十亿美元的矿区使用费和税收。官员和关注环境的人士称，追踪非法黄金几乎是不可能的，那些黄金很容易用于交易或者出售。
Many illegal mining operations are funded by businessmen based in the capital, Jakarta, and protected by corrupt local government officials, soldiers and police officers, according to environmental groups and researchers. In some areas, local environmental groups say, the Indonesian military and police are directly involved in gold mining.
环保组织和研究人员称，许多非法采矿活动的投资方都是首都雅加达的商人，而且腐败的地方政府官员、士兵和警察还会为这些活动提供保护。当地环保组织称，在有些地区，印尼军方和警察也直接参与了金矿开采。
“It’s a health problem, a criminal problem, an environmental problem,” Ms. Saria said.
萨里亚说，“这是个健康问题、犯罪问题、环境问题。”
In May, Indonesia’s Constitutional Court issued a landmark ruling giving indigenous ethnic groups the right to manage forests where they have traditionally lived. According to activists, the ruling will increase small-scale gold mining.
去年5月，印尼宪法法院(Constitutional Court)作出了一项意义重大的判决。根据这项判决，原住民族群将有权对他们世代居住的森林进行管理。活动人士称，这项裁定会使小型金矿的开采活动变得更加猖獗。
Uun Adang, 32, with her husband, runs a gold burning workshop, attached to her home in Cisitu. “My husband used to do mining and then we had a ball mill, but now we just purify gold and sell it,” she said, adding that they use nitric acid and other chemicals to burn off the mercury.
在芝西图，32岁的乌恩·阿当(Uun Adang)和丈夫在她的家旁边开了一家黄金作坊。“我丈夫原来是采矿的，后来我们弄到了一台球磨机，但我们现在只是提纯黄金，然后再把它卖掉，”她说。她还说他们会用硝酸和其他化学药剂来烧掉里面的汞。
The economics of such small-scale operations can be a gamble; mill operators pay about 150,000 rupiah, or $12.45, for a sack of ore and sell the resulting gold amalgam to burning workshops for roughly half the current market price for pure gold.
这种小规模的经营存在风险，矿场经营者要花大约15万印尼盾（约合12.45美元，75元人民币）购买一袋矿石，然后再以大约相当于纯金目前市价一半的价格，把得来的金汞齐卖给加工作坊。
Mrs. Uun, who is four and a half months pregnant, agreed to give a hair sample to BaliFokus researchers in November to test for mercury. The World Health Organization defines a normal level at one part per million, and the United States Food and Drug Administration defines it as two p.p.m. Mrs. Uun had a reading of 25.3 p.p.m.
乌恩现在已经怀孕四个半月了，去年11月，她同意把自己的头发样本交给BaliFokus的研究员进行汞测试。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)认为，汞的正常含量为1ppm（ppm为百万分之一），美国食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)的规定是2ppm。而乌恩头发的含汞量为25.3ppm。
Several male residents of Cisitu who also gave hair samples had readings of up to nine p.p.m.
芝西图几名提供了自己头发样本的男性居民的数值也达到了9ppm。
Studies done in other regions of Indonesia, including work by the University of Mataram on Lombok Island, showed elevated mercury levels in people processing gold, and dysfunctional motor skills among local children.
印尼其他地区的研究表明，其中包括马塔兰大学(University of Mataram)在龙目岛上进行的研究，参与黄金加工的人体内的汞含量会上升，而当地儿童则在运动技能上存在缺陷。
“The youngest victims were children between 10 to 12 years old,” said Baiq Dewi Krisnayanti, a lecturer and researcher in soil science at the university. “The way they were affected by mercury was through mining it from tailing ponds in their area, and also inhaling it during the mercury burning process to get gold.”
“最小的受害者是年龄在10到12岁之间的儿童，”马塔兰大学土壤科学讲师、研究者拜克·德维·克里斯纳扬蒂(Baiq Dewi Krisnayanti)说。“他们是因为在当地的尾矿池进行开采活动，以及在焚烧过程中吸入汞而受到影响的。”
Outdoor air samples taken by BaliFokus in various parts of Cisitu showed mercury readings of 5,000 to 50,000 nanograms per cubic meter. According to United States Environmental Protection Agency and World Health Organization guidelines, communities should be prepared to evacuate based on indoor air readings of 1,000 to 10,000 nanograms per cubic meter.
BaliFokus在芝西图不同地区采集的室外空气样本显示，当地汞含量为每立方米5000到5万毫微克。根据美国国家环境保护局(United States Environmental Protection Agency)和世界卫生组织规定，如果室内空气中的汞含量在每平方米1000到1万毫微克左右，人们就应该考虑撤离。
“They are playing with dangerous chemicals like they’re water,” said Ms. Yuyun, the BaliFokus co-founder.
BaliFokus的联合创始人尤云说，“他们在与危险的化学品打交道，好像那些东西是水一样。”