NEW DELHI — A few years ago, the Indian filmmaker Nishtha Jain set up a camera in her apartment. She wanted to tell a story about a relationship between unequals.
新德里——几年前，印度导演尼什塔·贾殷(Nishtha Jain)在自家公寓架设了一台摄像机。她计划讲述一个关于不平等关系的故事。
Lakshmi, her 21-year-old housemaid, crawls across the floor with a rag, polishing the marble, while Ms. Jain, reading at a table, lifts up her feet and sets them down without a glance. Lakshmi prepares two cups of tea and gives one to Ms. Jain, who is seated in a chair, then, though a second chair is empty, sits on the floor to drink her own. Asked to join Ms. Jain and her friends at a lunch table, Lakshmi dissolves into helpless giggles. “See, they are sitting together like white people,” she tells her sister later. “And I am one black person amongst them.”
21岁的女佣拉克希米(Lakshmi)在地上爬来爬去，拿着抹布擦亮大理石地面，而贾殷在桌前阅读，抬起双脚再放下去，完全没有看过她一眼。拉克希米泡了两杯茶，一杯递给坐在椅子上的贾殷，另一杯则是自己坐在地上喝，尽管贾殷旁边还有张空椅子。当贾殷和友人邀请拉克希米一起上桌吃午饭，她不禁吃吃地傻笑起来。“看，他们像白人一样坐在一起，”她后来告诉自己的姐妹。“而我是他们中间的黑人。”
When Ms. Jain reviewed the footage for her 2008 documentary, “Lakshmi and Me,” a few scenes made her cringe — which was, in a way, the whole point. The disparity between middle-class Indians and their household staff is a subject no one is eager to talk about, even in the tidal wave of commentary over the case of Devyani Khobragade, the Indian diplomat who was charged with visa fraud in New York in relation to her treatment of her maid.
当剪辑自己2008年的纪录片《拉克希米与我》(Lakshmi and Me)的时候，贾殷因为其中的几个场景而倍感尴尬。某种程度上讲，这正是本片的意义所在。印度中产阶级与他们的家政工之间的不平等是一个人人回避的话题，甚至在德芙雅尼·霍布拉加德(Devyani Khobragade)事件的评论浪潮中也如此。霍布拉加德是印度外交官，因女佣待遇问题而在纽约遭到签证欺诈的指控。
A superabundance of cheap labor is built into every aspect of life here. Domestic workers are at the bottom of the work force, wage-wise and class-wise, and in 2010 they earned a national average of about $1.30 a day.
印度生活的方方面面都有赖于超级充裕的廉价劳动力。家政工处于劳动力的底层，无论是薪资上还是社会阶层上。2010年，家政工的全国日均工资约为1.3美元（当时约合8.9元人民币）。
Hunt for an apartment in New Delhi’s wealthy neighborhoods and this immediately becomes clear: Spacious homes feature tiny, airless spaces known as “servants’ quarters.” Elevators are sometimes marked with signs reading “Not for use by servants.” Landlords asked about installing dishwashers often respond with blank stares, because servants wash the dishes.
在新德里的富人区找公寓的时候，这一点立即突显出来：宽敞的屋子里带有密不透风的小小“仆人区”。电梯上有时会贴着“仆人不得使用”的标语牌。听到安装洗碗机要求的房东往往报以茫然的目光，因为都是仆人洗盘子。
It is difficult to find anyone here who does not take advantage of low wages, including liberals and foreigners. I pay our nanny a salary of around $240 a month, and provide free lodging — twice the legal minimum wage for unskilled labor in Delhi, which is home to millions of poor people seeking work. One American friend, giving me advice before I moved, said the right thing to do was to employ as many people as possible. But even trying to make fair choices in this environment is morally exhausting.
很难找到这里有什么人会不利用这种低工资，包括自由派和外国人。我给保姆的月工资是240美元左右，外加免费住宿。在数百万穷人求职的德里，这个数目是无技能劳工法定最低工资的两倍。我搬来之前，一名美国朋友给出的建议是，正确的做法应该是尽可能多地雇人。不过，在这样的环境里，就连尝试着做点公平的选择，都会让人在道德上左右为难。
Ms. Jain’s film is an attempt to grapple with that disparity — not just in India, she said in an interview, but anywhere, including the West, where poor women and migrants look after the children of the rich. When she began filming, Ms. Jain was paying Lakshmi 600 rupees, or about $9.50, per month for 45-minute daily cleanings, “less than what I would spend on a fancy dinner,” she reasons in a voiceover, “but that’s what everyone pays.”
贾殷的电影意在努克服这种不平等——在采访中，她表示，它不光存在于印度，而是到处可见，包括在西方，因为那里也由贫穷的女性和外来工照管富人的子女。开始拍摄的时候，贾殷付给拉克希米每月600卢比，约合58元人民币，每天打扫45分钟，“不到我在一顿大餐上花的钱，”她在旁白中说，“不过大家都给这么少。”
No one abuses Lakshmi, a birdlike beauty who began working at the age of 10 collecting garbage in Mumbai, but the footage is difficult to watch at times anyway. The camera lingers on one of her middle-class employers, a well-meaning, educated woman who sits on a couch playing computer solitaire while Lakshmi — heavily pregnant and with a diagnosis of tuberculosis — passes back and forth doing household chores.
拉克希米没有遭到虐待，这个娇小的美人10岁就开始在孟买捡垃圾，但电影里的片段时常会令人不忍心看下去。摄像机停留在她的一名中产阶级雇主身上。这名受过良好教育的女士并无恶意，她坐在沙发上玩单人电脑游戏，因怀孕而大腹便便又患有肺结核的拉克希米却在前前后后地忙着家务。
“We really look like jerks,” Ms. Jain said. “This film was a damn bold and really tiring thing to do, because we look like creeps, and this is what we are. We cannot wash our hands of this. We are accepting a certain inequity.”
“我们的确看起来像是混蛋，”贾殷说，“这部片子非常大胆，很折磨人，因为我们看起来像坏人，而且的确就是。我们不能袖手旁观。我们在接受某种特定的不平等。”
It is not uncommon to hear discomfort of this kind here, but legislative solutions seem remote. A National Policy on Domestic Workers, which would extend minimum wage laws to protect workers in this sector, has been foundering in Parliament since 2011.
在这里，此类不安的声音并不新鲜，但法律上的解决办法却看似遥不可及。“家政工国家政策”(National Policy on Domestic Workers)希望能将最低工资法规的适用范围扩大到家政业。然而，该政策自2011年起就一直卡在国会那里。
As for Lakshmi, the documentary gave her a sort of neighborhood celebrity. On her husband’s insistence, she withdrew the money from two funds the filmmaker set aside — one for her, and another for her daughter’s education — to buy land in South India, where she has given birth to two more daughters, each time hoping for the boy her husband wants, Ms. Jain said. When the two women last spoke, she was full of regret, and spoke of returning to Mumbai.
至于拉克希米，这部纪录片让她在社区里多少出了名。在丈夫的坚持下，她从贾殷预留的两个基金中取了钱，在印度南部买了块地。这两个基金，本来一个是给她的，另一个则放的是她女儿的教育金。贾殷说，到了南部，拉克希米又生了两个女儿，两次都是因为丈夫希望要个男孩。两人最后一次通话的时候，拉克希米满心悔恨，说起要回孟买。
“She was very unhappy,” Ms. Jain said. But then she was gone again, leaving no phone number behind.
“她当时非常不开心，”贾殷说。不过，她随后消失了，没有留下电话号码。