NEW DELHI — In a subterranean workshop in India’s Ministry of Finance, roughly 100 government workers are nearing the end of their captivity.
新德里——在印度财政部的一个地下办公场所里，大约有100名政府工作人员即将结束他们囚徒般的生活。
For nine days and nights, while they proofread, printed and bound 10,000 copies of the budget to be presented on Saturday morning, the workers have been sequestered behind doors sealed with wax and denied access to telephones or email, said officials who have taken part in traditional “lock-ins” in the past.
连续九天九夜，他们在校对、印刷和装订1万份将于周六上午公之于众的预算文件。过去曾参与这种传统“禁闭”过程的官员称，这些工作人员被隔绝在用蜡密封的大门背后，不能打电话或收发电子邮件。
Food brought in for the workers has been tasted to reduce the risk of food poisoning, which would require removal from the “sanitized” area to a designated room in a government hospital, watched by a “shadow” from India’s Intelligence Bureau. Indeed, some of the pressmen are themselves agents from the bureau, a retired intelligence officer said, planted in the workshop to guard against possible leaks to corporations.
送来给这些工作人员食用的东西会先经过试吃，以降低食物中毒的风险。如果发生中毒，就需要把人从这片“消毒”区转移到一家政府医院的一个指定房间，受到来自印度情报局(Intelligence Bureau)的“幽灵”的监控。一名退休的情报官表示，实际上，有些印刷工本身就是情报局的特工，他们被安插在里面，是为了防止信息被泄露给企业界。
India’s budget always gets a lot of attention, but this year nerves are especially taut. Nine months have passed since Prime Minister Narendra Modi won an election vowing to revive India’s economy, and some of his supporters are expressing impatience with the pace of change.
印度的预算总会得到大量关注，不过今年大家的神经尤其紧绷。距离纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)在印度总理竞选中获胜已经过去了9个月，他当时发誓要振兴印度经济，而他的一些支持者如今已对变化的速度表现出缺乏耐心。
Though economic growth figures look promising, a drumbeat of editorials from industrialists and economists have exhorted Mr. Modi to announce something momentous and politically risky in his first full-year budget, like sharp subsidy cuts or tax overhauls. Some have taken an urgent tone, warning that the window of opportunity for structural change has already begun to close.
尽管经济增长数据看好，业界人士和经济学者却在发表一系列评论文章，敦促莫迪在他的第一个全年预算中不顾政治风险而宣布一些重大决策，比如大幅削减补贴或进行全面的税收改革。有些文章语气急迫，警告结构性改革的机会窗口已经开始关闭。
Whatever the budget contains, it is sealed in a remarkable cone of secrecy. India’s elaborate confidentiality measures date to the time of the British Raj, when taxes on tea or spices could set off hoarding or dumping. More elaborate precautions were introduced after independence, when government spending essentially drove the economy.
不管预算中包含什么内容，它都被密封在一个极为保密的场所里。印度的这种精心设计的保密措施可以追溯到英国统治时期。当时，针对茶叶或香料的税收调整会引发人们的囤积或甩卖行为。独立之后，政府支出对推动经济增长具有至关重要的作用，印度开始采用更为细致的防范措施。
Some analysts say the need for confidentiality is receding now, as outside factors, like consumer spending and corporate investment, grow in importance. But for the workmen who oversee the budget’s production, secrecy remains an article of faith.
一些分析人士表示，随着消费支出和企业投资等外部因素的重要性逐渐增强，保密的需要如今在降低。但是，对于负责预算出炉过程的工作人员而言，保密仍然是一个信条。
“I am proud to say that the Indian budget has never been leaked,” said one official who has taken part in more than a dozen “lock-ins,” who like most other officials contacted would speak only on condition of anonymity. “The process ensures that it is a total secret. Who wants to change it? Nobody! Nobody will take the risk!”
“我可以自豪地说，印度的预算从未泄露过，”一名曾关过十多次“禁闭”的官员称。与记者联系的其他多数官员一样，此人要求不具名。“这套流程保证了它完全保密。谁会去想改变它？没有人！没人会冒这个险！”
On Feb. 19, the workers — copy editors, binders, computer technicians, machine operators, plate makers and other laborers — filed into a warren of pressrooms and dormitories in North Block, the government’s drafty, elegant Raj-era office complex.
2月19日，这些工作人员——审稿员、装订工、计算机技术人员、机器操作员、制版人员等等——逐一进入位于印度政府办公大楼北栋的地下印刷间和宿舍。这栋楼建于英国统治时期，通风良好、外表雅致。
“I have seen the place where all this happens in the Finance Ministry, and it is like a cellar, a subterranean chamber there — it is huge,” said S. Narayan, a former finance secretary, in a telephone interview. “It must have been built very long ago. I cannot imagine in the last 20 or 30 years anybody digging such a big hole in the North Block.”
“我见过那个地方，一切都发生在财政部底下。它就像是个地窖，一个地下洞穴，非常之大，”前财政部长S·纳拉扬(S. Narayan)通过电话接受采访时说。“它肯定是在很久之前建造的。我无法想象，有谁能在过去二三十年里在北栋挖出一个这么大的洞。”
The lock-in begins with a ceremony in which the workers share halwa, a dense, sweet dessert, said the official who has taken part. Incense is burned around the printing presses and binders, giant machines imported from France and Germany.
曾参与“禁闭”的那名官员称，首先会有个仪式，由工作人员分享哈尔瓦——一种质地坚硬的甜品。人们还会在从法国和德国进口的巨型印刷机和装订机周围焚香。
“We feel the budget is a puja,” or religious ceremony, he said. “We worship that machine on that day. We pray to the God that the machine will work on that day.”
“我们觉得预算是一个宗教仪式，”他说。“我们当天会敬奉机器，会向神明祈祷，希望机器能正常工作。”
The entrances are sealed after that, with three rings of security put in place, and a only a handful of Finance Ministry officials allowed to enter or exit. The workers bring quilts, but little else, and say goodbye to their families, leaving a contact number in the Finance Ministry in case of emergencies. What follows are long spells of unbroken work, fueled by unlimited tea, with breaks for sleep in barracks.
之后入口将被封闭，布置三层安全防护措施，只允许少数财政部官员进出。工作人员会携带被褥——不过除此以外就没有多少东西了——然后与家人道别，预留一个财政部的联系电话，以防出现紧急情况。之后，他们需要长时间连续工作，可以享受不限量的茶水，中途在洞穴里睡觉休息。
The official, who acknowledged missing his family during his time underground, said he could recall only one instance when a worker left the lock-in. It involved a poor laborer from Rajasthan, who got the news that his 6-month-old baby had died.
这名官员承认，他在地下工作时很想念家人。他说，只记得有一次，一名工作人员离开了“禁闭”区。此人是来自拉贾斯坦邦的可怜工人，当时获知，自己6个月大的孩子夭折了。
The man left North Block under the guard of a team from the Intelligence Bureau, traveled to his village for a night — and the next day, the official said, he returned to the lock-in to continue work.
在情报局一队人马的看护下，他离开了北栋，回到家乡所在的村子里过了一夜——这名官员称，他次日便回到“禁闭”区继续工作。
“He said, ‘Sir, I came back, because if I do not, you will be discomfited, and your work will suffer,’” the official said. “I was very proud.”
“他说，‘先生，我回来了，因为如果我不这样做，就是给你出难题，你的工作也会受到影响，’”这位官员表示。“我感到非常自豪。”
Intelligence agents perform background checks on all the workers who take part, watching for unexplained infusions of cash, said the retired intelligence officer. He said there was particular concern that press workers would be cultivated by representatives of large corporations, who might reach out through mutual friends, or send gifts for a child’s birthday, in hopes of securing an early glimpse of the budget.
那名退休情报官称，探员会对所有参与其中的工作人员进行背景核查，监控他们是否有来源不明的收入。他说，情报部门尤其担心大型企业的代理人会与从事印刷工作的人员培养关系。这些代理人可能会通过共同的朋友联系他们，或者在孩子生日时赠送礼物，以期能提前一窥预算的真容。
This could help them profit from the policies about to be announced, for example by investing in infrastructure companies, if large projects were planned, or in auto companies if excise duties were going to be changed.
这样做会有助于他们从即将宣布的政策中获益。例如，如果政府策划了大型工程，他们就可以投资基础设施公司；如果消费税即将面临改革，他们就可以投资汽车企业。