JAKARTA, Indonesia — Gita Wirjawan, Indonesia’s trade minister, made a steeply rising motion with his right hand, like an airplane soaring into the sky, when asked about the surging real estate market in this country. “Scary, isn’t it?” he said.
印度尼西亚雅加达——当被问及印尼急速膨胀的房地产市场时，该国贸易部长吉塔·维亚万(Gita Wirjawan)用右手做出了一个急剧上升的动作，像飞机冲天而起。他说，“很可怕，不是吗？”
But Boediono, the vice president who uses only one name and has been a leading economic policy maker for the last 16 years, was much more sanguine.
但是，副总统布迪约诺(Boediono)则乐观得多，在过去的16年中，布迪约诺一直是主要的经济政策制定者之一。他只有名，没有姓。
“I don’t see so far that the cycle has developed a dangerous bubble,” he said in a separate interview. “We have taken steps, of course, but if you look at the players, they are well insulated.” He did not expect that even a recent plunge in the country’s currency would present financial troubles.
“到目前为止，我还不认为这个周期出现了危险的泡沫，”他在一次单独的采访中说，“当然我们采取了一些措施，但是你可以看看这个市场的参与者，他们对风险都做了很好的防范。”他甚至不觉得印尼盾汇率最近的大幅下挫会带来金融问题。
Mr. Boediono and Mr. Gita represent different perspectives in an active discussion here over whether Indonesia’s resurgent commercial and residential real estate markets are a cause for jubilation or concern. High rents and prices, at least compared to previous levels in Jakarta, have been the subject of particular scrutiny because real estate helped cause a financial collapse in the late 1990s and because the currency has been one of the hardest hit among emerging markets in recent months.
商业和住宅房产市场的再次崛起究竟是一件好事，还是令人担忧，印尼国内对此进行了热烈讨论，布迪约诺和吉塔的说法代表了两方的观点。高租金和高房价，至少是高于雅加达以前水平的租金和房价，已经受到了特别关注，一个原因是房地产是推动印尼20世纪90年代末金融体系崩溃的一个因素，另一个原因是最近几个月来，印尼盾是新兴市场国家中受冲击最严重的货币之一。
Rents per square foot for downtown grade B commercial real estate have roughly doubled in local currency terms over the last three years and nearly tripled for scarce grade A space. They have not yet shown signs of weakening, real estate brokers and developers said, even though investors have shifted tens of billions of dollars from emerging markets to the United States and other industrialized countries in response to somewhat higher long-term interest rates there.
以印尼盾计算，在过去三年中，雅加达市中心的乙级商业地产每平方英尺（约合0.09平方米）的租金大约翻了一番，甲级商业地产的租金则差不多提高了两倍。房地产经纪人和开发商表示，这种势头还没有显现出减弱的迹象，尽管投资者已经把数百亿美元资金从新兴市场国家转移到了美国和其他发达国家，因为那些地方的长期利率略微高一些。
But while skyscraper construction projects are slowing or stopped in big Indian cities like Mumbai, tower cranes in Jakarta are still floodlit at night so that workers can keep building long after sunset. The difference reflects continued foreign investment in the Indonesian economy and a diversified domestic economy.
虽然在孟买等印度大城市，摩天大楼的建设活动已经放缓或停止，但在雅加达，塔式起重机仍然在夜间亮起灯光，以便工人可以在太阳落山很久之后继续施工。这种差异不仅说明印尼还在继续获得外来投资，也反映了该国国内经济的多元化。
The Lippo Group, the sprawling conglomerate that is one of Indonesia’s largest real estate developers, is still planning to begin preselling offices in two commercial real estate projects in the coming months, which will then take about three years to build. “At this stage, there’s no material evidence the market has gone away,” said Craig Williams, who was the managing director overseeing Lippo’s real estate operations until the end of September.
力宝集团(Lippo Group)是一个庞大的财团，也是印尼最大的房地产开发商之一，该公司仍计划在未来几月里预售两个商业地产项目中的办公室，这些项目需要大约三年时间建设。力宝房地产业务前董事总经理克雷格·威廉姆斯(Craig Williams)说，“目前没有重大证据表明这个市场涨得太离谱了。”直到今年9月底，他一直负责力宝的房地产业务。
While Jakarta real estate prices may be rising, they are doing so from a very low base and remain among the cheapest in East Asia. Even after recent appreciation, the rule of thumb here is that condominium prices, at $372 to $418 per square foot, are one-seventh of comparable prices in Singapore and a tenth of comparable prices in Hong Kong, according to the Jakarta office of Cushman Wakefield, a global real estate consultancy and brokerage firm.
虽然雅加达的房价正在上涨，但由于起点非常低，这里的房价仍然处于东亚最便宜的区间。全球房地产咨询和经纪公司高纬环球(Cushman & Wakefield)雅加达办公室的资料显示，即使近期涨价之后，这里公寓每平方英尺的价格大致仍在372到418美元（约合人民币2267到2547元）之间，按可比价格计算，相当于新加坡的七分之一，香港的十分之一。
Commercial real estate prices are seven times higher per square foot in Singapore than in Jakarta and 14 times higher in costly Hong Kong.
商业地产每平方英尺的价格，新加坡比雅加达高出7倍，香港比雅加达高14倍。
Bank lending to real estate has been heavily regulated ever since the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998. Bank Indonesia, the country’s central bank, now requires commercial banks to get down payments of 30 percent for residential mortgages. Banks commonly demand 50 percent down payments for commercial mortgages, and many demand additional collateral beyond the project itself.
自从1997和1998年亚洲金融危机爆发之后，印尼的银行房地产贷款受到了严格监管。央行印度尼西亚银行(Bank Indonesia)要求商业银行在首付30％的条件下才能发放住宅按揭贷款。银行通常会要求商业按揭首付50％，很多银行还要求借款人提供价值超出房产本身的抵押品。
“Now we are more fully in control of bank loans to real estate,” said Difi A. Johansyah, the central bank’s chief spokesman and chief liaison to parliament and the rest of the Indonesian government.
“现在我们对流向房地产的银行贷款有了更彻底的控制，”印尼央行主要发言人、负责联络议会及印度政府其他部门的首席联络官迪菲·A·约翰斯亚赫(Difi A. Johansyah)说。
Like London, Tokyo or Paris, Jakarta is a huge metropolis that combines the roles of being the political capital and commercial capital of the country. With 10 million residents plus 2.5 million people who commute in from the suburbs, it is the dominant commercial real estate market in the country, and is also emerging as a market for apartment towers. But demand is outstripping supply because of other limitations imposed on the commercial real estate market.
和伦敦、东京或者巴黎一样，雅加达是一个巨大的都市，兼任该国政治首都和经济首都的双重角色。有着1000万居民和250万郊区通勤者的雅加达，在印尼商业地产市场中占有支配地位，同时它也正成为塔式高层公寓楼的新兴市场。不过，由于商业地产市场所受到一些其他限制，这里出现了供不应求的状况。
Fragmented land ownership also makes it hard for developers to accumulate land to put up skyscrapers. Indonesia also does not allow foreigners to own land, and makes it extremely difficult for them to obtain the main type of land lease used for buildings. Foreigners qualify instead for a kind of junior land lease known as “right of use.” Banks are loath to accept buildings with these junior leases, known as hak pakai, as collateral for mortgages.
土地所有权的分散也让开发商很难集聚起建设摩天大楼所需的土地。印尼不允许外国人拥有土地，他们要获得用于楼房的主要土地租赁契约也异常困难。外国人可以获得的是某种次级土地租赁权，也就是所谓的“使用权”。而银行则不愿接受用这种所谓“hak pakai”（意为使用权——译注）的次级土地租赁权大楼作为按揭抵押。
American financial institutions most conspicuously missed out on Indonesia’s real estate price spiral of the last several years. They acquired none of the top 27 Class A commercial projects in Jakarta even as they snapped up buildings in other Asian markets, said Todd Lauchlan, the head of the Indonesia office of Jones Lang LaSalle. Indonesians own over 99 percent of the country’s overall commercial real estate market, although there are a few investors from Europe, Japan and Hong Kong, notably Hongkong Land, part of the Jardine Matheson Group.
很显然，美国金融机构错过了印尼过去几年房地产价格的盘旋上涨。仲量联行(Jones LangLaSalle)印尼办公室主任托德·劳克伦(Todd Lauchlan)说，美国公司在其他亚洲市场抢购楼盘，却没有入手雅加达排名前27的A级商业地产项目中的任何一个。该国商业房地产市场的99%是由印尼人持有的，尽管还有一些来自欧洲、日本和香港的投资者——主要是香港怡和集团(Jardine Matheson Group)麾下的香港置业。
“It is one of those markets where one needs to have patience and build strong relationships with local partners,” said Robert Garman, the executive director responsible for Southeast Asia at Hongkong Land.
香港置业负责东南亚业务的执行董事罗伯特·加曼(Robert Garman)说，“这是一个你需要有耐心并和当地生意伙伴打好关系的市场。”
American companies have been more successful in industrial real estate, notably multinationals with long-term goals of selling to Indonesia’s 250 million people. Procter & Gamble acquired a large site here at the bottom of the market several years ago for a diapers factory.
美国公司一向在产业地产上比较成功一些，主要是那些有志于长期将商品卖给印尼2.5亿人口的跨国公司。几年前，在市场触底时，宝洁(Procter & Gamble)在印尼购得一大片土地用来建设纸尿布工厂。
Roughly 85 percent of the offices in Jakarta and 95 percent of the condominiums are occupied by their owners, who almost never want to sell, said David Cheadle, the managing director for Indonesia at Cushman & Wakefield, another global real estate brokerage and consulting firm. “We’ve pretty much seen one private equity fund, one sovereign wealth fund and one institutional investor every month, every 10 days even, and we say to them, ‘It’s a very frustrating market here,’” he said. “You can’t just walk in here and buy an office building.”
雅加达约85%的写字楼以及95%的公寓都是由其所有人在使用的，他们几乎从来不想出售这些地产，另一家全球房地产经纪和咨询公司高纬环球的印尼总经理戴维·钱德尔(David Cheadle)说，“基本上每个月甚至每10天都会有一家私募基金、一家主权财富基金，以及一个机构投资者来找我们，然后我们对他们说，‘这儿的市场令人沮丧，’”钱德尔说，“你不能就这么走进来，然后买下一栋办公大楼。”