NEW DELHI — Irate over the release of a British-made documentary film on a 2012 gang rape in Delhi, India’s home minister, Rajnath Singh, told Parliament on Wednesday that the Indian government would “not allow any organization to leverage such an incident and use it for commercial purpose.”
新德里——英国制作的一部有关2012年新德里轮奸案的纪录片即将发行，对此感到愤怒的印度内政部长拉杰纳特·辛格(Rajnath Singh)在周三告诉议会，印度政府“不会允许任何组织在此类事件上投机，并将其用于商业用途”。
The documentary, “India’s Daughter,” features an interview with Mukesh Singh, now on death row for his role in the crime, who tried to justify the brutal attack by saying “a decent girl won’t roam around at 9 o’clock at night.” Excerpts from the interview were released on Tuesday as part of an advance publicity campaign.
这部名为《印度之女》(India’s Daughter)的纪录片主要呈现了对穆克什·辛格(Mukesh Singh)的一次采访。因为在这桩案件中的罪行而被判死刑的穆克什试图为自己的残忍行径辩解，声称“一个好女孩不会晚上9点还四处晃荡”。为了进行先期宣传，采访的几个片段于周二公之于众。
Things moved quickly after that. After a condemnation from the home minister, the Delhi police moved for a restraining order, and a court issued a stay banning broadcast of the film, which was set to be aired Wednesday night by the BBC.
之后的发展一日千里。在内政部长对此表示谴责后，新德里警方申请了限制令，法院裁决禁播此片。英国广播公司(BBC)原定于周三晚间播放该片。
A news release from by the Delhi police said Mukesh Singh “has made malicious, derogatory, offensive, insulting remarks against women, causing harassment and disrepute.” The excerpts, the statement continued, “are highly offensive and have already created a situation of tension and fear amongst women in our society.”
新德里警方发布新闻稿称，穆克什·辛格“发表了针对女性的恶意、贬损、无礼、侮辱性的言论，会造成骚扰，破坏名誉。”声明中还写道，采访片段“极其无礼，已经在我们社会的女性中制造了一种紧张和恐惧的氛围。”
The restraining order also bans websites from uploading or posting the interview.
该限制令还禁止网站上传或公布这段采访。
Sexual violence is a highly charged topic in India, and though the vast majority here had not yet seen the film on Wednesday, it was nonetheless the subject of stormy debate among activists and public intellectuals.
性暴力在印度是一个高度敏感的话题，虽然绝大多数印度人在周三没有看到这部纪录片，但它还是在活动人士及公共知识分子当中引发了激烈辩论。
The author Nilanjana S. Roy warned of the “very real risk of turning a rapist into the Twitter celebrity of the day.” Kavita Krishnan, of the leftist All-India Progressive Women’s Association, saw patriarchal undertones in the advance foreign coverage for the film, describing “a sense of India as a place of ignorance and brutality toward women, that inspires both shock and pity, but also call for a rap on the knuckles from the ‘civilized world’ for its ‘brutal attitude.’ ”
作家尼兰亚纳·S·罗伊(Nilanjana S. Roy)警告，“存在将一名强奸犯变成当天Twitter名人的极为真实的风险。”左倾组织全印度进步妇女协会(All India Progressive Women's Association)的卡维特·克里希南(Kavita Krishnan)从这部纪录片的外国先期报道中看到了父权色彩，认为“它让人感觉印度是一个对女性一无所知、残暴对待女性的地方。这会激起人们的震惊和遗憾之情，但也会引发呼吁‘文明世界’谴责印度‘残暴态度’的声音。” 
Others defended the film. Shobhaa De, a popular Mumbai-based columnist, wrote that the film “must be made compulsory viewing in our schools, colleges and government offices.” And writing on the news website FirstPost, Sandip Roy, a journalist and novelist, questioned why people were so outraged by the convict’s statements, considering that, as he put it, “Singh’s observations would not sound that out of place in the mouths of many law-abiding Indians.”
其他一些人则为这部纪录片辩护。孟买的知名专栏作家肖芭·德(Shobhaa De)撰文称，“我们的学校、大学及政府部门应该强制观看”这部片子。记者兼小说家桑迪普·罗伊(Sandip Roy)在新闻网站FirstPost上发表文章，质疑人们为什么会被这名罪犯的表述激怒，而他提供的理由是，“如果很多守法的印度人也会发表辛格那样的言论，这听起来就没那么出格。”
In Parliament, many lawmakers endorsed the home minister’s view, and some wondered whether it might be possible to ban the film outside India’s borders.
在议会中，许多议员赞成内政部长的观点，还有人探讨是否有可能禁止该片在印度之外的地方播出。
Anu Aga, a member of the upper house, was one of the few members who spoke out in defense of the film.
印度上院议员阿努·阿迦(Anu Aga)是公开为此片辩护的少数议员之一。
“In glorifying India, saying we are perfect, we are not confronting the issues that need to be confronted,” she said. “Any time there is a rape, blame is put on the woman — that she was indecently dressed, she provoked the men. It is not just men in prisons’ views. It is the view of many men in India.”
“在美化印度、声称我们已经完美的时候，我们并没有去正视那些需要面对的问题，”她说。“每当发生强奸案，受责难的总是女人——是因为女人衣冠不整，在挑逗男人。这不仅是那些被关在监狱里的男人的观点，也是许多印度男人的看法。”
She added, “Let’s be aware of it, and let’s not pretend that all is well.”
她还说，“让我们对此保持清醒，不要装作一切都好。”
The filmmaker, Leslee Udwin, said she was “deeply saddened” by the ban, which she described as the “flouting of a basic right of freedom of speech.”
该片导演莱斯莉·尤德温(Leslee Udwin)表示，禁令让她“深感痛心”，因为它“藐视了言论自由的基本权利”。
“India should be embracing this film, not blocking it with a knee-jerk hysteria without even seeing it,” she wrote in a statement on the website of NDTV, a news channel.
在新闻频道新德里电视台(NDTV) 网站刊登的声明中，她写道，“印度应该接纳这部电影，而不是在看都没有看的情况下，就因为下意识的歇斯底里而将其屏蔽。”
The 2012 rape and subsequent trial transfixed India for most of a year, prompting passionate discussions about women’s safety in this rapidly urbanizing country.
2012年的强奸案及随后的审讯在印度造成的巨大反响持续了将近一年时间，促使人们热切讨论女性在这个快速城市化的国家中的安全问题。
Many Indian women are afraid to travel the streets alone after dark, and street harassment has long been dismissed indulgently as “eve teasing.” Although the per capita rate of rapes reported to the police in India is below that of many developed nations, some experts say that much sexual violence goes unreported.
许多印度女性害怕天黑之后独自在街上行走，街头的骚扰活动则一直被称为“挑逗夏娃”而被人宽容地忽视。尽管印度警方记录的人均强奸犯罪率要低于许多发达国家，但一些专家认为，许多性侵事件并未得到举报。
The woman attacked in 2012, a 23-year-old physiotherapy student, had boarded a private bus with a male companion, not realizing that the bus was off duty and the six men aboard had been driving the streets in search of a victim. After knocking her friend unconscious, they took her to the back of the bus and raped her, then damaged her internal organs with an iron rod. She died two weeks later of her injuries.
2012年遇袭的那名女子是23岁的理疗专业学生。她与一名男性伴侣一起登上了一辆私人巴士，没有意识到这辆车并未营业，而是上面的六名男子正在街上寻找受害者。在打晕她的朋友之后，他们把她带到巴士后排，将其轮奸，然后用铁棒损伤了她的内脏。两周以后，她因伤重不治身亡。