JAKARTA, Indonesia — The Indonesian president, Joko Widodo, signed a decree on Wednesday authorizing chemical castration for convicted child sex offenders and requiring those released on parole to wear electronic monitoring devices.
印尼雅加达——印度尼西亚总统佐科·维多多(Joko Widodo)周三签署了一项法令，授权对性侵儿童罪名成立者进行化学阉割，并要求获得假释者佩戴电子监控设备。
The new punishment comes in response to the brutal gang rape and murder in April of a 14-year-old girl on her way home on the island of Sumatra. Seven teenage boys were each sentenced to 10 years in prison for the crime, which prompted national outrage and revived previous calls for chemical castration as a punishment against child sex offenders.
这项新的惩罚措施，是针对苏门答腊岛上4月发生的一桩案件出台的。在该案中，一名14岁的女孩在回家的路上惨遭轮奸和杀害。涉案的七名十几岁的男孩都被判以10年监禁。该案在印尼全国引发了愤怒，此前有呼声要求对性侵儿童罪犯施以化学阉割作为惩罚，案件导致该类呼声再度高涨。
Mr. Joko told a news conference at the presidential palace in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, that he had signed a decree amending the country’s 2002 law on child protection to enable judges to hand down the punishment at their discretion.
在印尼首都雅加达总统官邸的新闻发布会上，佐科表示，他已经签署了一项法令。该法令对印尼2002年的儿童保护法实施修订，让法官能够自行决定是否实施这项惩罚措施。
“The inclusion of such an amendment will provide space for the judge to decide severe punishments as a deterrent effect on perpetrators,” Mr. Joko said.
“增加这样一份修正案将为法官决定严惩罪犯，以示威慑提供空间，”佐科说。
“These crimes have undermined the development of children, and these crimes have disturbed our sense of peace, security and public order,” he said. “So, we will handle it in an extraordinary way.”
“这些犯罪影响了儿童的发展，破坏了我们的和平与安全感，扰乱了公共秩序，”他说。“因此，我们将以一种不同寻常的方式来应对。”
Mr. Joko said that “sexual violence against children has increased significantly” in Indonesia, although his government has not provided data to back his assertions. He also increased the jail sentences for child sex offenders to a maximum of 20 years from 10 years.
佐科表示，印尼“针对儿童的性暴力大幅增加”，不过他领导的政府并未提供可支持这一说法的数据。他还将性侵儿童罪犯的最高刑期从10年增加到了20年。
Last year, Mr. Joko, claiming Indonesia was facing a “drugs crisis,” removed an unofficial moratorium on capital punishment by executing 13 convicted drug traffickers by firing squad, all but one of them foreigners, prompting international condemnation. A second Indonesian was also executed for murder.
去年，佐科声称印尼正面临着一场“毒品危机”，取消了对死刑的非正式停用，用枪毙的方式处决了13名被判有罪的毒贩，招致国际社会的谴责。除一人以外，被处决者均为外国人。后又有一名印尼人因谋杀被处决。
The local news media has cited the country’s National Commission on Violence Against Women as saying that around 35 Indonesian women a day are victims of sexual violence.
印尼当地的新闻媒体，援引印尼反对对女性施暴全国委员会(National Commission on Violence Against Women)的话报道称，每天有大约35名印尼女性成为性暴力的受害者。
Through chemical castration, drugs are used to reduce a person’s sex drive. A number of countries have employed the punishment for convicted sex offenders and pedophiles, in many cases in exchange for more lenient prison sentences. They include Australia, Russia, South Korea and the United States.
化学阉割是指用药物降低人的性欲。许多国家会对性犯罪者和恋童癖者施以这种惩罚，很多情况下它可以换来更短的刑期。这些国家包括澳大利亚、俄罗斯、韩国和美国。
However, there are many skeptics of the procedure, which was first performed in the 1940s.
然而，很多人对始于上世纪40年代的这种做法持怀疑态度。
“Chemical castration risks offering a false solution, and a simple one, to what is inevitably a complex and difficult problem,” said Heather Barr, a senior researcher on women’s rights with Human Rights Watch, the New York-based organization.
“化学阉割可能只是对一个必然复杂、困难的问题，给出了一个虚假、简单的解决办法，”总部设在纽约的人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)妇女权利高级研究员希瑟·巴尔(Heather Barr)说。
“Protecting children from sexual abuse requires a complex and carefully calibrated set of responses,” she said, including an effective social services system, school-based efforts to prevent and detect abuse, treatment services for people at risk of abusing children and criminal justice measures that focus on prevention.
“保护孩子不被性侵犯，需要有一系列复杂且经过仔细校验的应对措施，”她说，包括有效的社会服务制度、基于学校，旨在预防和发现侵犯的活动、针对存在侵犯儿童风险者的治疗服务，以及以预防为主的刑事司法措施。
“Chemical castration on its own addresses none of these needs,” Ms. Barr continued, “and medical interventions should be used, if at all, only as part of a skilled treatment program, not as a punishment.”
“化学阉割本身并不满足这些需求中的任何一项，”巴尔接着说。“如果真要使用医疗干预的办法，也应该把它们作为一个技术性治疗项目的一部分，而不是一种惩罚手段。”