SURABAYA, Indonesia — Indonesian rescue teams said Tuesday that they had found bodies and what appeared to be debris from the AirAsia plane that vanished shortly after taking off from the airport here on Sunday.
印度尼西亚泗水——印度尼西亚救援队周二表示，他们发现了尸体和疑似亚航失联飞机的残骸。该飞机周日自这里的机场起飞后不久失踪。
Djoko Murjatmodjo, a senior official with Indonesia’s Transportation Ministry, confirmed that the debris was from Flight 8501, which was carrying 162 people when it disappeared. “We’ve confirmed the wreckage was from the body of the plane,” he said Tuesday in Jakarta, the capital.
印尼交通部高级官员德约科·慕尔雅特默德约(Djoko Murjatmodjo)证实残骸来自8501号航班。该航班失踪时机上载有162人。“我们已经证实，残骸来自该飞机机身，”他周二于首都雅加达表示。
Members of search teams told the Indonesian news media that they had spotted what appeared to be suitcases, life vests and aircraft debris. Indonesian television showed a rescuer descending from a helicopter toward a bloated corpse floating in the sea. The bodies shown on television were not wearing life jackets.
救援队成员对印度尼西亚媒体说，他们发现了疑似行李箱、救生衣和飞机残骸的物体。印度尼西亚电视播放了一名救援人员自直升机朝一具漂浮在海上的、肿胀的尸体下降的画面。电视画面中的尸体均未着救生衣。
The bodies and debris were found in the Karimata Strait off the coast of Borneo. Search teams also spotted what appeared to be a larger piece of the fuselage of the Airbus A320-200, which was operated by the Indonesian affiliate of AirAsia.
残骸在婆罗洲海岸附近的卡里马塔海峡被发现。搜救队还发现了像是一大块空客A320-200飞机机身残骸的物体。该飞机由亚航的印尼子公司运营。
“My heart is filled with sadness for all the families involved in QZ 8501,” Tony Fernandes, the founder of AirAsia, wrote in a Twitter message soon after the debris was discovered. “On behalf of AirAsia my condolences to all. Words cannot express how sorry I am.”
“我的心为牵扯进QZ8501航班的所有家庭而充满悲伤，”亚航创始人托尼·费尔南德斯(Tony Fernandes)在残骸被发现不久后发出的一条Twitter发文中写道。“我代表亚航向所有人表示哀悼。语言无法表达我感到多么遗憾。”
Earlier Tuesday, the Indonesian authorities had announced an expanded search area, suggesting that they had few leads as to the whereabouts of the plane, which vanished on Sunday morning, about 40 minutes after leaving the Indonesian city of Surabaya bound for Singapore.
周二早些时候，印尼官方已宣布扩大搜救范围，表明他们对8501航班的去向毫无头绪。该航班周日早间离开印尼城市泗水飞往新加坡，约40分钟后失踪。
“The area we are searching is huge,” Bambang Soelistyo, the head of Indonesia’s National Search and Rescue Agency, said in a briefing. The total search area, including parts of Borneo and smaller islands in the Java Sea, was around 60,000 square miles, the authorities said.
“我们的搜救范围巨大，”印尼国家搜救队队长班邦·索里斯托(Bambang Soelistyo)在一个记者会上说。官方表示，总的搜救范围——包括了婆罗洲的部分地区和爪哇海上的小岛——有约6万平方英里（约合155000平方公里）。
A United States warship had been dispatched to join the search for the missing jet, and Mr. Bambang said the Indonesian government had also accepted offers from South Korea and China to help in the search.
一艘美国军舰已被调遣加入失踪航班的搜寻工作，且索里斯托说，印尼政府也接受了来自韩国和中国的协助搜寻请求。
The Java Sea, which separates the islands of Borneo and Java, is relatively shallow — around 160 feet at its deepest point — but monsoon conditions were clouding the waters, rescuers said.
救援人员说，分隔开婆罗洲岛屿和爪哇的爪哇海相对较浅——其最深处为160英尺（约合49米）——但该水域被季风状况笼罩。
Indonesian meteorologists described recovery efforts as a race against time because foul weather — heavy rains, choppy seas and higher winds — was predicted from Friday onward in the search area.
印尼气象学家将残骸取回工作形容为与时间的赛跑，因为恶劣天气——暴雨、波涛汹涌的海面及强风——预计将从周五起席卷搜救区域。
The recovery process was likely to shed light on the cause of the disaster, which has been unknown since the plane disappeared on Sunday. Speculation has ranged from bad weather to fears that the aircraft was traveling too slowly to stay airborne. Shortly before contact with the plane was lost, its cockpit crew told air traffic controllers that they planned to raise the plane to 38,000 feet from 32,000 feet, Mr. Djoko said at a news conference on Monday.
残骸取回过程很可能为灾难原因提供线索，自航班周日失踪起，事故原因一直不明。猜测范围从恶劣天气到飞机飞行速度过慢以至于无法停留在空中。德约科周一在一个新闻发布会上说，在飞机失联前不久，其驾驶舱机组人员告知空中交通管制人员，他们计划将飞机自32000英尺抬升至38000英尺。
As news spread of the grim discoveries in the sea, relatives of passengers stood despondently outside the Surabaya airport.
海面上发现坠机惨象的消息传开后，乘客的亲属在泗水机场外陷入了绝望。
“I’m still hoping my brother is safe,” said Ifan Joko, who stood in a light drizzle beside the terminal where relatives and friends had gathered since Sunday.
“我仍然希望我的兄弟能平安，”伊范·约科(Ifan Joko)站在航站楼外的微雨中。从周日起，家属和朋友便在这里聚集。