MUMBAI, India — Palash, the largest tiger at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai, still paces his cage for the hour leading up to dinner and still pounces on his meal when his handlers lift the gate to his feeding room. But lately what the 440-pound feline finds is not his usual 15 pounds of raw beef, fresh from the slaughter.
印度孟买——晚餐前的一个小时，孟买桑贾伊·甘地国家公园(Sanjay Gandhi National Park)最大的老虎帕拉什(Palash)一如既往地在笼中踱着方步；饲养员将通往饲养室的闸门升起的一刹那，它一如既往地向食物猛扑过去。但最近，这只440磅重的雄性猫科动物得到的晚餐不再是它习以为常的15磅新鲜生牛肉。
Instead, he and the park’s eight other Bengal tigers, three lions, 14 leopards and three vultures are subsisting almost exclusively on decidedly lighter fare: chicken.
它和另外八头孟加拉虎、三头狮子、14只豹子以及三只秃鹫，几乎完全在以热量低得多的鸡肉为食物。
The change in diet has nothing to do with health, and everything to do with India’s particular mix of politics and religion.
这种饮食上的改变并非出于健康方面的考虑；与之息息相关的，是印度政治与宗教的独特组合。
The Maharashtra state government, led by the country’s governing Hindu nationalist party, recently banned the possession and sale of beef, imposing religious dietary restrictions on Hindus and non-Hindus alike. Violations can be punished by up to five years in prison.
由该国印度教民族主义执政党领导的马哈拉施特拉邦政府，最近下令禁止持有及销售牛肉，一刀切地要求印度教教徒和非印度教教徒遵守印度教的饮食禁忌。违者最高可被判处五年监禁。
The law has been sought by Hindu right-wingers, who helped bring Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party to power last year. Their ability to get the ban passed is seen by many as a sign of their growing power in the B.J.P.-led governments in important states.
帮助纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)总理及其领导的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party，简称BJP)在去年上台的印度教右翼势力，一直竭力推动“禁牛令”的出台。许多人都认为，这些人有本事让该法令得到通过，说明他们对于BJP领导下的一些重要邦份的政府部门越来越有影响力。
The new rules caused grumbling from Mumbai’s cosmopolitan, sometimes beef-eating elite — a group that includes some Hindus — who were sore over the sudden disappearance of steaks in restaurants. Others were unsettled by the rising culture wars between the Hindu right and those who oppose its agenda, including minorities. In this case, that group includes the state’s mostly Muslim cattle traders and meat retailers, who fear the ban will damage their businesses.
新法令惹得孟买那些间或吃些牛肉的都会精英——其中也包括印度教教徒——牢骚满腹，餐厅里突然没了牛排让他们很郁闷。其他人则因为印度教右翼势力与反对其议程的人士——包括少数民族——之间日益升级的文化战争而感到不安。就此事而言，其反对者包括以穆斯林为主的肉牛贸易商和牛肉零售商，他们害怕这道禁令会让他们的生意受损。
The traders are now weeks into a strike over the ban, refusing to supply shops with even buffalo meat, which is still legal.
为了反对“禁牛令”，肉牛贸易商这几个星期以来一直在罢市，甚至拒绝向商店供应并未被禁的水牛肉。
And that is where the animals at the national park come in.
就在这时，文章开头提到的桑贾伊·甘地国家公园的动物进入了公众视野。
Until recently, the animals at the park had feasted on a mixed diet of fresh beef, water buffalo and chicken. But the ban pulled beef from the menu, and the strike — at least for now — put fresh buffalo out of reach.
直到不久前，它们的食谱上还有鲜牛肉、水牛肉和鸡肉。但“禁牛令”让牛肉从食谱上消失了，罢工至少是暂时地让水牛肉也消失了。
The animals’ handlers, who seem baffled by the attention in the Indian news media since the ban, give mixed reviews on the switch to white meat.
桑贾伊·甘地国家公园的动物饲养员似乎没搞懂，这些动物的饮食何以在“禁牛令”出台后受到媒体的普遍关注。他们对白肉翻身唱主角一事褒贬不一。
Babu Vishnukote, one of the feeders, says the animals are devouring the chicken, which he sees as a good sign. But Shailesh Bhagwan Deore, who oversees the care of animals kept in captivity at the park, fears the leaner diet might eventually deplete the animals’ strength.
名叫巴布·维什努科特(Babu Vishnukote)的饲养员说，动物们吃起鸡肉来可谓狼吞虎咽，他认为这是个好现象。但该公园负责圈养动物照管事宜的沙伊列什·巴格万·代奥雷(Shailesh Bhagwan Deore)担心，缩水的饮食到头来可能会让动物变得不那么强壮。
“In fresh beef, the animals get the taste of blood,” Mr. Deore said. “They enjoy that.”
“鲜牛肉会让这些动物尝到血腥味，”代奥雷说。“它们很享受那种味道。”
The fight, of course, is not over what the park’s animals are eating; they will be able to tear into freshly slaughtered buffalo meat as soon as the striking traders begin supplying it again. Underlying the debate is unease among some liberal Indians worried that the ban shows the growing power of the Hindu right in the country.
当然了，这场争论的焦点并非国家公园里的动物目前正在吃什么，只要肉牛贸易商结束罢工重新开始供货，它们就可以吃上新宰杀的水牛肉了。“禁牛令”引发的讨论背后，潜藏着印度的一些自由派人士的不安。让他们感到担忧的是，这道禁令表明印度教右翼势力对这个国家影响力越来越大。
Neerja Chowdhury, a journalist and political analyst, said the passage of the ban seemed to indicate a kind of quid pro quo between Mr. Modi and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, or R.S.S., a Hindu nationalist organization that backed his recent attempts at land reform despite its reservations.
新闻记者兼政治评论员尼尔贾·乔杜里(Neerja Chowdhury)说，“禁牛令”得以通过，说明莫迪和民族志工组织（Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh，简称RSS）之间存在某种交易。民族志工组织是一个印度教民族主义团体，不久前曾对莫迪的土地改革举措给予支持，尽管怀有保留意见。
“He’s walking a tightrope because he himself is trying to come across as somebody who is pursuing inclusive politics,” Ms. Chowdhury said. “The general is taking one view, but the foot soldiers are taking a different view.”
“他在走钢丝，因为他竭力想要让人觉得，他正推动具有包容性的政治进程，”乔杜里说。“将军有一套想法，但底下的小兵却有另一套想法。”
The protection of cows is a volatile subject in India, where the animals are revered by the majority-Hindu population.
在印度这个大多数人都信奉印度教、把牛奉为圣物的国家里，对牛的保护是一个极易引发争议的话题。
In a recent interview with The Indian Express, Noorjehan Safia Niaz, an activist, railed against the law, which she says unfairly affects poorer members of the country’s Christian, Muslim and Dalit communities who are reliant on beef because it is generally cheaper than chicken.
活动人士努尔加汗·萨菲亚·尼亚兹(Noorjehan Safia Niaz)最近接受《印度快报》(Indian Express)采访时痛批“禁牛令”。她认为该法令是不公平的，不利于印度较为贫穷的基督徒、穆斯林和达利特人(Dalit)群体，这些群体主要吃牛肉，因为一般来说牛肉比鸡肉便宜。