JAKARTA, Indonesia — AirAsia Flight 8501, which crashed in the Java Sea on Dec. 28, was allowed to take off from Surabaya, Indonesia, even though it did not have all the required clearances from regulators to fly that day, the Indonesian Transportation Ministry said on Monday.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印度尼西亚交通部(Indonesian Transportation Ministry)周一表示，去年12月28日坠入爪哇海的亚洲航空(AirAsia)QZ8501航班，在没有获得当天飞行所需的所有监管许可的情况下，获准从印尼泗水起飞。
The ministry said it was suspending several officials for allowing the flight to take off. And it said it had issued regulations requiring airlines operating in Indonesia to brief their pilots on weather conditions before each takeoff, a practice followed in many other countries.
印尼交通部表示，该部已经因为允许航班起飞，而将数名官员停职。交通部表示，已经发布规定，要求在印尼运营的航空公司在飞机起飞前，向飞行员通报天气情况，很多国家都有这样的做法。
Djoko Murjatmodjo, the ministry’s acting director-general of civil aviation, said at a news conference that the new regulations were issued Dec. 31. The cause of the crash has yet to be determined, but experts say it appeared that stormy weather encountered by the plane may have played a role.
印尼交通部民航局代理局长佐科·穆雅莫佐(Djoko Murjatmodjo)在新闻发布会上表示，新规定是于12月31日发布的。飞机坠毁的原因尚未确定，但专家表示，飞机遭遇暴风雨天气，可能是原因之一。
Mr. Murjatmodjo said the ministry ordered the Surabaya airport to suspend officials who were on duty in key positions related to flight operations and air traffic control when Flight 8501 took off bound for Singapore. AirAsia officials declined to comment on the suspensions.
穆雅莫佐表示，交通部命令泗水机场将QZ8501航班升空飞向新加坡时，负责航班运行和空中交通管制、在关键岗位值班的官员停职。亚航官员拒绝就停职一事置评。
Officials have said that AirAsia had permits to fly the popular Surabaya-Singapore route on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, but later changed its schedule to fly on other days of the week, The Associated Press reported. Flight 8501 took off on a Sunday.
美联社(Associated Press)报道，官员们表示，亚航获准在每周一、二、四、六执行颇受欢迎的泗水至新加坡航线。但亚航后来调整了日程安排，在一周中的其他时间飞行。QZ8501航班是周日起飞的。
Mr. Murjatmodjo said that while Singapore officials had approved the Sunday flight, Indonesia had not, and the aviation agency used incorrect information in granting Flight 8501 a takeoff slot.
穆雅莫佐表示，虽然新加坡官员批准了周日的航班，但印尼并没有批准，航空部门给QZ8501航班安排起飞位时，使用了错误信息。
He said other airlines and airports across the country will also be scrutinized to see if they have been cutting corners in similar ways.
他表示，官方将在全国范围内对其他航空公司和机场进行检查，看它们是否也存在管理懈怠的类似情况。
“Who knows if other airlines are also doing the same thing?” he told The Associated Press.
穆雅莫佐对美联社表示，“谁知道其他航空公司是不是也存在这种做法呢？”
Indonesia has banned AirAsia from flying between the two cities until the investigation of the permit issue is complete.
印尼已经禁止了亚航飞行泗水至新加坡的这条航线，直到官方完成对飞行许可的调查。
Flight 8501, an Airbus A320 jetliner, crashed less than an hour after takeoff, and all 162 people who were on board are believed dead. Searchers contending with bad weather recovered three bodies from the flight on Monday, all still strapped to their seats, bringing the total found so far to 37.
QZ8501航班在起飞不到一个小时后坠毁。据信，这架空客A320飞机上的162人已经全部遇难。周一，搜救人员冒着恶劣的天气，打捞到三具由于系着安全带，仍然固定在座位上的遗体。迄今为止，总共发现了37具遗体。
Sonar has identified five large objects on the seafloor that are thought to be pieces of the aircraft’s fuselage, but strong currents, silt and mud have kept divers from seeing or reaching the objects, news agencies reported.
声纳已经确定海底有五个大型物体，据信是飞机机身的碎片。但多家通讯社报道，由于海流湍急，以及泥沙和淤泥的阻碍，潜水员看不见这些物体，也无法到达物体所在的位置。
The captain of an Indonesian naval patrol vessel, quoted by Reuters, said that one of the objects might be the aircraft’s tail.
路透社(Reuters)援引一艘印尼海军巡逻船船长的话称，其中一个物体可能是飞机的尾部。
No signals have yet been heard from the aircraft’s cockpit voice and flight data recorders, and the weather has kept searchers from using underwater ping locaters to spot them.
目前尚未收到飞机驾驶舱语音记录仪和飞行数据记录仪发出的信号。恶劣的天气致使搜救人员无法利用水下声波定位仪确定它们的位置。
The head of AirAsia’s Indonesian affiliate, Sunu Widyatmoko, told The A.P. on Monday in a text message that the airline would cooperate with the Indonesian government during the investigation, but would not comment on the permit allegations until the process was complete.
亚航印尼分公司负责人苏努·维迪亚特莫科(Sunu Widyatmoko)周一给美联社发信息称，该航空公司会配合印尼政府的调查工作，但拒绝在调查结束前，就涉及飞行许可的指控发表评论。