NEW DELHI —Rescuers digging through the rubble of a 12-story building that collapsed on Saturday in heavy rains in the southern city of Chennai had by Sunday evening recovered the bodies of 11 people and rescued 21 survivors, with possibly many more people still trapped under the rubble, officials said.
新德里——在南部城市金奈，援救人员冒着暴雨，在周六倒塌的一座12层大楼的废墟中进行挖掘搜救，截至周日找到了11具尸体，救出21名幸存者。官员称，被困在瓦砾堆下的人可能远不止这些。
In another accident, at least 10 people were killed on Saturday when a decrepit four-story building collapsed in New Delhi. That building was illegally constructed decades ago, officials said, and its collapse was partly attributed to construction work on an adjoining building.
周六还发生了另一起事故，新德里的一座四层老楼倒塌，至少10人丧生。官员称那座建筑是几十年前非法建造的，它的倒塌与毗邻的一座建筑正在施工有一定关系。
The police in Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu State, arrested six people on Sunday, including the partners of the construction company, the architect and the structural engineer, and charged them with criminal negligence in connection with the building collapse there, said P. Subramniam, a Chennai police officer.
泰米尔纳德邦首府金奈的警方在周日逮捕了六人，其中包括相关建筑公司的合伙人、建筑师和结构工程师，警官P·苏伯拉马尼安(P. Subramniam)说他们被控存在和大楼倒塌相关的过失犯罪。
The building had two towers, one of which collapsed after heavy rains, said Dr. T. S. Sridhar, a disaster management commissioner in Tamil Nadu. The trapped workers were lining up to collect their wages when the building went down about 5 p.m. on Saturday, Dr. Sridhar said. The building, which had 42 apartments, was as yet unoccupied, but its construction was largely complete.
泰米尔纳德邦灾难管理局长T·S·什里德哈博士(Dr. T. S. Sridhar)说，建筑共有两座楼，其中一座在大雨中倒塌。什里德哈说，大楼于周六下午5点倒塌时，被困的工人正在排队领取薪水。这座内有42套公寓的建筑还没有入住，但工程基本上已经完工。
“The building plan of the collapsed tower was approved by authorities, but it seems the builder either deviated from the approved plan or used substandard material,” Dr. Sridhar said. “The exact cause of the building collapse will be known after the inquiry.”
“垮塌大楼的建筑方案经过有关部门审批，但现在看来要么施工队没有按照经审批方案施工，要么使用了不达标的材料，”什里德哈说。“建筑垮塌的准确原因需要经过调查才能知道。”
About 200 people from various government and private agencies continued to search through the rubble of the Chennai building for survivors on Sunday night, said Mr. Subramniam, the local police officer. As many as 72 workers may have been in the building at the time of the collapse, The Times of India reported, citing the state’s chief minister.
当地警官苏伯拉马尼安说，周六晚上，来自各政府和私人机构的约200人继续在金奈垮塌现场的废墟中搜寻幸存者。《印度时报》(The Times of India)援引邦首席部长的话说，垮塌时可能有多达72人在楼内。
Building collapses are common in India, where construction standards are poor, and municipal authorities rarely condemn buildings even when they appear to have dangerous defects. But even unsafe buildings attract people who want to live in them because the competition for shelter is fierce among millions of city residents.
建筑垮塌在印度是家常便饭，这里的建筑标准很低，即使看上去有危险的缺陷，地方政府也很少宣布建筑为危楼。然而，即便是不安全的建筑也能吸引到愿意入住的人，因为成千上万的城市居民要寻找栖身之地，竞争很激烈。
In January, at least 15 workers were killed when a residential building under construction collapsed in the southern state of Goa, and last September, at least 50 people died when a 33-year-old building collapsed in Mumbai. And in April 2013, at least 72 people were killed when a building collapsed in a suburb of Mumbai, the deadliest accident of its kind in decades in India. Some of the construction workers were living at the site as they worked on the building.
今年1月，南部果阿邦的一座在建住宅楼垮塌，至少15名工人丧生，去年12月，孟买一座有33年历史的建筑垮塌，至少50人丧生。而在2013年4月，孟买郊区一座建筑的垮塌导致至少72人丧生，是印度几十年来的这类事故中死亡人数最多的。其中一些建筑工人在施工期间就住在工地里。