KALUL VILLAGE, Indonesia — Near a palm oil plantation here, bulldozers and chainsaws can be heard in what is officially “protected forest.” The hilly terrain is not ideal for large-scale agriculture, but with few areas left for expansion, the loggers are denuding the land anyway.
印度尼西亚卡卢村——这里的一个油棕种植园附近，就是正式的“森林保护区”，里边传来推土机和电锯的轰鸣声。丘陵地带并非进行大规模农业生产的理想场所，但这里几乎没剩下什么可供进一步开垦的土地，于是伐木者正把它变成光秃秃一片。
Aceh, the northern province on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, is a region made famous by separatist conflict and natural disasters, calamities that long held back economic development but helped preserve one of the world’s richest ecosystems. Now conservationists say the rapid clearing of virgin forest is paving the way for environmental catastrophe, turning critically endangered orangutans, tigers and elephants into refugees, and triggering landslides and flash floods.
印尼苏门答腊岛北端的亚齐省，是一个以分裂冲突和自然灾害闻名的地区。这些苦难长期阻碍了当地经济的发展，但却帮忙保全了世界上物种最丰富的生态系统之一。如今，环保人士指出，对原始森林的快速采伐正为环境灾难的到来铺平道路，这种做法让濒危的红猩猩、老虎和大象沦为生态难民，并导致山体滑坡和山洪暴发。
Much of the current activity is illegal, they say, but if a land-use plan proposed by Aceh’s governor, Zaini Abdullah, is approved by the national government, currently protected forests could be rezoned as “production forests,” paving the way for logging, palm oil and mining concessions. The Aceh government argues that the change is needed to develop the local economy.
他们说，大部分当前的采伐行为都是违法的，但如果亚奇省省长扎伊尼·阿卜杜拉(Zaini Abdullah)提出的一项土地利用规划得到中央政府的批准，目前的森林保护区就可能会被重新规划为“生产性林地”，从而为颁发伐木、油棕种植和采矿的许可证铺平道路。亚齐地方政府认为，要发展当地的经济，就必须做出这种改变。
“They are very eager to build new roads and open up forests,” said Muhammad Zulfikar, of the Indonesian Forum for Environment, or Walhi, a nongovernmental organization opposed to the governor’s plan. “The government must see things not only from a political or investment point of view. What would be the point of investing if it only leads to natural disaster in the future?”
“他们非常渴望修筑新路、开发森林，”印度尼西亚环境论坛（Indonesian Forum for Environment，简称WALHI）的穆罕默德·佐勒菲卡尔(Muhammad Zulfikar)说。“但政府不能只从政治或者投资的角度看问题。假如只会在未来引发自然灾害，那么投资又有什么意义呢？”WALHI是一家非政府组织，对省长的计划持反对态度。
Mr. Zaini’s proposal is part of a startling shift by an Aceh government dominated by former separatist rebels who once billed themselves as protectors of the region’s natural environment against outside exploitation. It also illustrates a wider problem facing Indonesia, where the tightly centralized power structure of the late authoritarian leader Suharto has given way over the past 15 years to considerable local control. Nowhere is that more the case than in Aceh, where the 2005 peace accord between the Indonesian government and rebels of the Free Aceh Movement granted the region special autonomy.
扎伊尼的计划是亚齐政府惊人转变的一部分。从前的分离主义武装分子现在主导着当地的政府，他们一度宣称自己是该地区自然环境的保护者，令其免受外来者的剥削。此项计划也印证出，印尼面临的一个更大的问题。过去15年间，由该国已故独裁领导人苏哈托(Suharto)建立起来的高度集中的权力架构已经让位于相当程度的地方自治。这种倾向在亚齐体现得最为淋漓尽致。2005年，印尼政府和自由亚齐运动(Free Aceh Movement)的反叛者达成和平协议，授予该地区特别自治权。
“The regional autonomy law gives the power to mayors or regents to manage their affairs, to give concessions, to issue licenses related to economic activity,” said Mas Achmad Santosa, legal adviser to a presidential working group tasked with monitoring Indonesia’s forests.
“按照区域自治法的规定，自治区的管理者有权处理地方事务、出让特许权，并就相关的经济活动颁发许可证，”在负责监管印尼森林的总统工作小组担任法律顾问的马斯·艾哈迈德·桑托萨(Mas Achmad Santosa)说。
A recent study by Greenomics, a Jakarta-based policy institute that researches forest management, determined that unauthorized permits for mining and palm oil plantations — meaning they were issued by local officials without approval at the national level — have affected more than 520,000 hectares, or 1.3 million acres, of protected forest in Aceh. Elfian Effendi, the executive director of Greenomics, called the proposed Aceh plan “an effort to legitimize illegal permit operations.” Protected forests currently account for about 1.84 million hectares of land in Aceh. There are about 32 million hectares of protected forest throughout Indonesia.
雅加达一家从事森林管理研究的政策研究所“绿色经济”(Greenomics)最近进行的一项调查认为，未经批准的采矿和油棕种植许可证——意即，这些由地方官员颁发许可并未得到中央政府的批准——已经对亚齐52万公顷被划为保护区的森林造成了影响。“绿色经济”总干事艾菲安·埃芬迪(Elfian Effendi)把亚齐的提议称为“让非法的特许业务合法化的努力”。在亚齐省，目前受到保护的林地共有约184万公顷。而在整个印尼，森林保护区的总面积约为3200万公顷。
Indonesia has one of the world’s fastest rates of deforestation, much of it to make way for palm oil plantations. From 1990 to 2010, 20 percent of forest area was lost, according to a report by the United Nations.
印尼是世界上森林砍伐速率最快的国家之一，大多是为了给油棕园腾地方。来自联合国的一份报告显示，1990年到2000年间，印尼的森林面积减少了20%。
In 2010, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono declared a freeze on new logging concessions as part of a deal with Norway, which agreed to pay Indonesia up to $1 billion for progress toward reducing deforestation. In May, Mr. Yudhoyono extended the ban to 2015.
2010年，总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)宣布，禁止颁发新的伐木许可，作为印尼与挪威的双边协议的一部分。挪威同意向印尼支付至多10亿美元（约合61亿元人民币），用以鼓励后者在减少森林砍伐方面取得进步。今年5月，苏西洛将禁令延长至2015年。
But critics note that the moratorium applies only to new concessions, while weak governance and a complex structure of forest management leave nominally protected areas open to exploitation. For example, local governments can request that the National Development Planning Agency rezone protected areas they consider vital to economic growth.
但批评人士指出，禁令只适用于新的许可；与此同时，薄弱的治理能力以及错综复杂的森林管理结构，则让名义上的保护区遭到肆意开发。举例来说，各个地方政府可以提请国家开发计划署(the National Development Planning Agency)重新划分在它们看来对经济增长至关重要的保护区。
Aceh is a case that stands out because its history of separatist uprisings eventually led to the special autonomy that has left Jakarta hesitant to intervene in how the local government manages natural resources.
亚齐是一个比较突出的例子。该地区在历史上发生过分离主义武装暴动，并最终获得了特别自治权。这让雅加达方面不愿贸然介入，对当地政府该如何管理自然资源指手画脚。
“It’s quite a careful balancing act the national government has to do in accommodating Acehnese aspirations, but also imposing national law,” said John McCarthy, a senior lecturer on environment and development at Australian National University.
澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)的环境与发展领域的高级讲师约翰·麦卡锡(John McCarthy)说，“中央政府在行动上不得不谨小慎微，既要迎合亚齐人的意愿，又要推行中央的法规。”
For decades, the separatist rebellion spared Aceh from some of the deforestation taking place elsewhere in Indonesia. The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, which killed an estimated 170,000 people and left half a million homeless in Aceh alone, further stymied development. But it also paved the way for the peace accord that ended the fighting and put the former rebels in charge of the devastated region.
在数十年的时间里，分离主义暴动部分地让亚齐避免了印尼其他地区经历的毁林事件。而2004年的印度洋海啸仅在亚齐一地据估计就导致了17万人死亡，另有50万人流离失所。这次海啸进一步阻碍了开发的步伐。不过，它也为和平协议开辟了道路。该协议终结了双方的武装冲突，让曾经的反叛分子获得了遭受重创的亚齐的管辖权。
Irwandi Yusuf, who served as governor from 2007 to 2012, was among them. Known to make surprise visits to logging concessions and comb forests in search of illegal chainsaws, Mr. Irwandi was the “green governor” who pledged to preserve Aceh’s rain forests.
2007年到2012年间担任亚齐省长的伊尔万迪·优素福(Irwandi Yusuf)就是其中的一员。他出了名地喜欢突然造访伐木场，以及到林间详查非法电锯，被称为致力于保护亚齐雨林的“绿色省长”。
He did so by embracing a United Nations-backedcarbon-trading plan that aimed to reduce deforestation and inject much-needed money into the economy. In 2007, he barred companies from clearing primary forest or peatland. Three years later, he proposed a land-use plan that would increase the amount of protected forest by 1 million hectares.
伊尔万迪的做法是全面开展联合国支持的一项碳交易计划。该计划旨在减少毁林，并向经济中注入亟需的资金。2007年，他禁止企业在原始森林或泥炭地中开荒。三年后，他提出了一项土地利用规划，旨在将森林保护区的面积扩大100万公顷。
In 2011, however, he changed course, allowing the palm oil company PT Kallista Alam to develop a peat swamp inside the Tripa conservation zone, home to endangered Sumatran orangutans.
然而到了2011年，他改弦更张，允许棕榈油企业PT Kallista Alam在特雷帕保护区内开发一块泥炭沼泽，而这块保护区是濒危的苏门答腊红猩猩的家园。
The move caused an uproar among conservationists, who alleged that the concession violated national law. Mr. Irwandi defended his decision, saying the money expected from projects aimed at reducing deforestation had not materialized, in part because of bureaucratic delays at the national level. One environmental group has taken the case to court. But it marked the beginning of a transition from a leadership focused on environmental protection to one that gave precedence to economic development.
此举让环保人士一片哗然。他们指责，这项许可违反了国家法律。伊尔万迪为自己的决定进行了辩护，他表示，本来希望从减少毁林的项目中获得的资金未能落实，而部分原因在于国家层面的官僚主义拖延。一家环境组织将案子告上了法庭。此事标志着亚齐领导层从关注环保转向了优先发展经济。
“A lot of people in Aceh never accepted that such a large area of their homeland should be locked up by conservationists,” said Mr. McCarthy. Many had hoped to cash in by brokering deals for access to Aceh’s natural resources. He said Mr. Irwandi had supported conservation as a means of development, but when the carbon scheme failed to pay, he abandoned it.
“亚齐有很多人由始至终都认为，这么一大片自己的家园不应该被环保主义者封存起来，”麦卡锡说。许多人希望，达成开发亚齐自然资源的协议来换取金钱。他还说，伊尔万迪支持将保护作为一种发展的手段，但碳交易计划未能带来资金，他就抛弃了这种做法。
His successor, Mr. Zaini, has proved no more environmentally friendly. Shortly after taking office in June 2012, he dissolved a management body tasked with ensuring conservation inside the Leuser Ecosystem, one of the last places where the Sumatran elephant, rhinoceros, tiger and orangutan live together. Conservationists say it is no longer possible to monitor what is happening in the forests.
事实证明，伊尔万迪之后的省长扎伊尼并未对环境更加友好。2012年6月任职后不久，他就解散了旨在保护洛伊泽生态区(Leuser Ecosystem)的管理机构。洛伊泽是苏门答腊象、犀牛、虎和红猩猩共同生活的最后一批栖息地之一。环保人士表示，如今没法再对林中的情况进行监控。
“People are up to grab what they can while they can,” said Dr. Ian Singleton, the head of conservation at the environmental organization PanEco and director of the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Program. The program’s orangutan rehabilitation center, built to accommodate about 25 animals, currently has double that number, largely because of the increase in forest clearing, Dr. Singleton said.
“人们忙着趁允许的时候尽量多捞，”伊恩·辛格尔顿(Ian Singleton)说。他是环保组织PanEco的保护项目主管，同时负责苏门答腊红猩猩保护项目(Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Program)。该项目旗下的猩猩康复中心的设计规模是25只，目前的收容量已翻番。辛格尔顿表示，大部分原因在于毁林的扩大化。
Mr. Zaini’s proposal to the national government would revise a land-use plan enacted in 2000. Officials who helped draft the proposal say the changes are needed to accommodate expanding human settlements and infrastructure development.
扎伊尼向中央政府提交的建议中要求修改2000年实施的土地利用规划。参与起草提议的官员表示，需要这样的修改来适应人居和基础设施开发的扩张。
“The population has grown a lot since the previous spatial plan was drafted,” said Martunis Muhammad, the head of investment and development financing at Aceh’s development planning agency, Bappeda. “The changes need to account for changes in land-use patterns.”
马图尼斯·穆罕默德(Martunis Muhammad)是亚齐开发规划机构地区规划局(Bappeda)的投资与开发融资部门负责人，他表示，“之前的空间规划起草后，人口增长了很多。需要进行修改来适应土地利用模式的转变。”
Under the proposed plan, Mr. Martunis said, some protected forest will be reclassified as production forest, allowing communities to cultivate the land they live on. He concedes that the plan would reduce the protected forest area but says it would not violate a national law designating the Leuser Ecosystem as off limits to human activity. “The spatial plan is aimed at guiding the development of Aceh, while protecting the environment,” he said.
马图尼斯称，按照新提议，一些受保护的森林将被重新划分为生产性林地，从而允许民众在自己居住的土地上进行耕作。他承认，相关提议将减少受保护的林地面积，但他认为不会违反将洛伊泽生态区列为禁止人类活动区域的国家法律。“这项空间规划旨在指导亚齐的发展，同时保护环境，”他说。
Even if the plan is not approved, Dr. Singleton said, without decisive action from the national government, plantations will continue to encroach on protected areas. “It’s now all open for business,” he said.
辛格尔顿认为，就算规划未获批准，只要印尼中央政府不采取坚决的措施，种植活动就会继续蚕食受保护的区域。“现在是门户洞开，”他说。