NEW DELHI — An Indian spacecraft affectionately nicknamed MOM reached Mars orbit on Wednesday, beating India’s Asian rivals to the Red Planet and outdoing the Americans, the Soviets and the Europeans in doing so on a maiden voyage and a shoestring budget.
新德里——周三，印度一架被亲切地称作MOM的航天器抵达火星轨道，打败了同样在开展火星计划的亚洲对手，同时也因在预算较少的前提下首航便取得成功，而超越了美国、苏联和欧洲。
An ebullient Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on hand at the Indian Space Research Organization’s command center in Bangalore for the early-morning event and hailed it “as a shining symbol of what we are capable of as a nation.”
为了凌晨的这一盛事，兴高采烈的印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)现身印度空间研究组织（Indian Space Research Organization，简称ISRO）在班加罗尔的指挥中心，称此事“是一个耀眼的象征，展现了我们作为一个国家的能力”。
“The odds were stacked against us,” Mr. Modi, wearing a red Nehru vest, said in a televised news conference. “When you are trying to do something that has not been attempted before, it is a leap into the unknown. And space is indeed the biggest unknown out there.”
“我们面临了重重困难，”身穿红色尼赫鲁式马甲的莫迪在电视转播的新闻发布会上说。“尝试做过去从未试过的事情，就像是跳进了未知。实际上太空就是最大的未知。”
Children across India were asked to arrive at school by 6:45 a.m. Wednesday, well before the usual starting time, to watch the historic event on state television.
周三，印度全国的孩子都被要求在早上6点45分之前到校，以便在官方电视台观看这一历史性的事件。这个时间远早于通常开始上课的时间。
The Mars Orbiter Mission, or MOM, was intended mostly to prove that India could succeed in such a highly technical endeavor — and to beat China. As Mr. Modi and others have noted, India’s trip to Mars, at a price of $74 million, cost less than the Hollywood movie “Gravity.” NASA’s almost simultaneous — and far more complex — mission to Mars cost $671 million.
火星轨道探测器(Mars Orbiter Mission)，又称MOM，主要是为了证明印度能在技术性这么强的事情上取得成功，也是为了打败中国。正如莫迪和其他一些人指出的那样，印度耗资7400万美元（约合4.5亿元人民币）的火星计划，比好莱坞影片《地心引力》(Gravity)的成本还低。美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的火星任务几乎与印度的同时进行，但远比其复杂，耗资6.71亿美元。
Success was by no means assured. Of the 51 attempts to reach Mars, only 21 have succeeded, and none on any country’s first try, Mr. Modi noted. Japan failed, in 1999, and China in 2012.
成功远不是必然。莫迪指出，在51次飞向火星的尝试中，只有21次成功，而且没有哪个国家第一次尝试就成功了。日本在1999年失败，而中国则在2012年失败。
But Mr. Modi, who was elected in May with a once-in-a-generation majority in Parliament, has been on something of a roll. And the Mars achievement, which he had almost nothing to do with, will only add to that.
但5月凭借在议会获得难得一见的多数席位而当选的莫迪，却一直很走运。尽管这次火星任务的成功和他几乎没有丝毫关系，但此事只会让他再添好运。
Mr. Modi leaves Friday for New York, where he will address the United Nations General Assembly as well as a sold-out, largely Indian-American crowd at Madison Square Garden before heading to Washington for a meeting with President Obama.
莫迪将于周五前往纽约。在那里，他将在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)，以及麦迪逊广场花园发表讲话。后一场活动的票已经售罄，参加者主要是印度裔美国人。然后，莫迪将前往华盛顿，与奥巴马总统举行会晤。
The Indian Space Research Organization has always had a small budget, and for years it worked in international isolation after many countries cut off technological sharing programs in the wake of Indian nuclear tests. It has launched more than 50 satellites since 1975, including five foreign satellites in one June launch. As other countries have rethought their pricey space programs, India’s low-budget affair has gained increasing attention and orders.
ISRO一直预算不高。印度核试验过后，许多国家停止了技术共享项目，因而ISRO多年来一直是在国际社会的孤立之下工作的。自1975年以来，该组织已经发射了50多颗卫星，其中包括6月一次性发射的五颗外国卫星。随着其他国家重新考虑各自耗资不菲的太空计划，印度预算极低的项目也吸引了越来越多的关注和订单。
Its success has been seen as a fulfillment of the kind of state-sponsored self-sufficiency that former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru cherished but that, in the main, left India impoverished.
它的成功被认为实现了国家奉行的自给自足的目标。印度前总理贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)所珍视的这种路线，基本上也让印度陷入了贫困。
More recently, India’s technological isolation in defense and other areas has been due in large part to the country’s restrictions on foreign investments, its poor infrastructure. India is now the world’s largest importer of arms because of its inability to make its own and its refusal to let foreign companies open plants owned entirely by them.
近年来，印度在国防及其他领域的技术孤立，在很大程度上源于其对外来投资的限制，以及该国糟糕的基础设施。印度目前是世界上最大的武器进口国，因为它一方面没有自行制造武器的能力，另一方面又拒绝让外国公司建立全资的工厂。
The country’s most important export is the cheap brainpower of its engineers, based in technology centers like Bangalore and Hyderabad, who provide software and back-office operations for corporations around the world.
印度最重要的出口商品就是工程师廉价的脑力。这些工程师在班加罗尔和海得拉巴等科技中心工作，为世界各地的企业提供软件和后台服务。
“Our success on Mars is a crucial marketing opportunity for low-cost technological know-how, which is what we do really well,” said C. Uday Bhaskar, an analyst with the Society for Policy Studies, a New Delhi research center. India’s space program “spent peanuts, and they got it done.”
“我们在火星上取得的成功，是推销低成本科技实力的一个关键机会，我们很擅长这方面的工作，”新德里研究机构政策研究学会(Society for Policy Studies)的分析师C·乌代·巴斯卡尔(C. Uday Bhaskar)说。印度的太空计划“花钱很少，不过完成了目标”。
India’s decision to launch Mangalyaan, the name of its spacecraft, resulted after China’s own mission to Mars failed in 2012. In almost every sphere, the Chinese have outpaced the Indians over the last three decades, but Indian scientists saw an opportunity to beat them to Mars.
2012年，中国的火星项目以失败告终，随后印度决定发射称作“火星飞船”（Mangalyaan，源自印地语）的探测器。过去30年，中国几乎在所有领域超过了印度，但印度科学家在前往火星的计划上，看到了一个打败中国的机会。
In just a few months, they cobbled together a mission to send a 33-pound payload of fairly simple sensors to Mars orbit. They used a small rocket, a modest 3,000-pound spacecraft and a plan to slingshot around Earth to gain the speed needed to get there. A mission that began with a November launch in Sriharikota has been flawless since.
他们只花了数月时间，就拼凑起了一个项目，决定把一个配有颇为简单的传感器、有效载荷为33磅（约合15千克）的飞行器送入火星轨道。他们利用了一枚小型火箭，以及一个仅重3000磅的航天器绕地球运行，通过引力助推取得进入火星轨道所需的速度。11月，这项任务从斯里赫里戈达岛的一次发射开始，从那以后就没出过任何问题。