MUMBAI, India — An Indian nurse died on Monday more than four decades after she was strangled with a metal chain, sexually assaulted and left in a permanent vegetative state. Her case had set off a national debate on euthanasia, often called “mercy killing” in India, and helped lead to the legalization of life-support withdrawal.
印度孟买——40多年前，印度的一名护士被人用金属链勒住，遭到性侵犯，然后进入了持续性植物人状态。这名护士于周一死亡。她的案例曾在全国范围内引发关于安乐死的讨论，并推动了撤除生命维持设备的合法化。
The nurse, Aruna Shanbaug, 66, died of pneumonia after contracting it last week, said Avinash Supe, the dean of King Edward Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, where Ms. Shanbaug had worked before spending 38 of the last 42 years in a coma there. She had been kept alive with a feeding tube.
孟买爱德华国王纪念医院(King Edward Memorial Hospital)院长阿维纳什·苏佩(Avinash Supe)宣布，这名叫做阿鲁娜·尚鲍格(Aruna Shanbaug)的66岁的护士，因为上周感染了肺炎而死亡。她曾在这所医院工作，过去42年的昏迷期中有38年也在那里度过。她一直靠导食管维生。
Ms. Shanbaug was a newly engaged 25-year-old nurse when, at the end of the workday on Nov. 27, 1973, she went down to the hospital basement, where there was a “dog lab” in which animal experiments took place. A young orderly at the lab, who had waited there for her, strangled her with a dog chain, sodomized her and then fled.
1973年11月27日，25岁的尚鲍格还是一名刚刚订婚的护士。当天下班后，她来到医院的地下室，那里有个做动物实验的“狗实验室”。在实验室等她的一名年轻护工用狗链勒住她，强迫与她肛交，然后逃走。
The orderly, Sohanlal Bharta Walmiki, was sentenced to seven years in prison for robbery and attempted murder. Rape was not included in the charges against him because Indian law at the time did not include sodomy as a form of rape, and because the hospital had withheld the nature of the assault during the investigation.
这名叫做索罕拉尔·巴尔塔·瓦尔米基(Sohanlal Bharta Walmiki)的护工因为抢劫和谋杀未遂的罪名而被判处七年监禁。根据当时的印度法律，强迫肛交不包含在强奸罪的定义之中，而且在调查过程中，医院隐瞒了此次袭击的性质，所以他并未受到强奸指控。
Ms. Shanbaug’s immediate family took part in her care at first, but the nurses at the hospital rallied to the cause of keeping her alive and eventually took over her care. One of them, Anuradha Parade, who joined the hospital the year Ms. Shanbaug was transferred there from another facility and who is now secretary of the nurses’ welfare society at the hospital, said on Monday that her colleagues had looked on Ms. Shanbaug as a family member. New nurses would be taken to her bedside and told: “She’s one of us. We will take care of her until she dies.”
尚鲍格一开始由她的直系亲属照料，但这所医院的护士共同树立了让她活下去的目标，最终接管了照顾她的工作。其中一个护士名叫阿努拉德哈·帕拉德(Anuradha Parade)。尚鲍格从另一家机构转过来的同一年，帕拉德也进入了这家医院工作。帕德拉现在是医院的护士福利社团的会长。她周一表示，同事们把尚鲍格看做亲人。新来的护士都会被带到她的床前，并被告知：“她是我们中的一员。我们会一直照顾她，直到她去世。”
“We have a hundred patients in a very crowded ward, but still each and every one of us cared for her personally,” Ms. Parade said. “We are so glad that we could give Aruna a natural death.”
“我们的病房非常拥挤，有100个病人，但我们每个人都亲自照顾过她，”帕拉德说。“我们很高兴可以让阿鲁娜自然死亡。”
Thirty-five years into the coma, Pinki Virani, an author and journalist, petitioned the Supreme Court of India on Ms. Shanbaug’s behalf, arguing that she was “virtually a dead person” and should be allowed to “die peacefully.” But the nurses protested, saying that Ms. Shanbaug had responded to them with facial expressions. The court suit was eventually rejected.
在尚鲍格的昏迷进入第35个年头的时候，记者兼作家平奇·维拉尼(Pinki Virani)代表她向印度最高法院提起申诉，称她“实际上是一个死人”，应该允许她“平静地死去”。不过，护士们表示反对，称尚鲍格用面部表情回应过她们。这起诉讼最终被驳回。
Dr. Roop Gursahani, a neurologist who examined Ms. Shanbaug in 2011 as part of the case, said she had been taken care of so thoroughly that she had not had a bedsore in almost 40 years.
2011年在案件调查过程中对尚鲍格进行过检查的神经学家鲁普·古尔萨哈尼博士(Roop Gursahani)表示，她受到的照料十分周到，以致于在将近40年时间里都没生过褥疮。