JAKARTA, Indonesia — Indonesia’s foreign minister said Monday that it was a “bit mind-boggling” that the Australian intelligence agency had spied on his nation’s trade deliberations with American officials.
印度尼西亚雅加达——印尼外长周一表示，澳大利亚情报机构曾针对印尼与美国官员的贸易协商进行间谍活动，这种行为“有些令人难以置信”。
“We should be looking out for each other, not turning against one another,” the foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, said. “We should be listening to one another,” and not listening in.
“我们应该守望相助，而非与对方为敌，”印尼外长马蒂·纳塔莱加瓦(Marty Natalegawa)说。“我们应该倾听对方的意见，”而不是窃听。
The New York Times reported on Sunday that an American law firm was monitored by the Australian Signals Directorate while representing the Indonesian government on various trade issues. A top-secret document, obtained by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden, reported that the Australian agency had notified the N.S.A. that it was conducting surveillance of the talks.
《纽约时报》周日报道，代表印尼政府处理各种贸易问题时，一家美国律师事务所受到了澳大利亚信号处(Australian Signals Directorate)的监视。根据前国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)获取的一份绝密文件，该澳大利亚机构曾向国安局通报，它正在对相关谈话内容进行监听。
In a joint news conference here with Secretary of State John Kerry, Mr. Natalegawa refrained from directly criticizing the United States, saying that he had been assured that the Obama administration was undertaking a review of its spying practices that he hoped would lead to changes in its approach to spying on Indonesia.
在雅加达与美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)举行联合新闻发布会时，纳塔莱加瓦没有直接批评美国，还说他确信奥巴马政府正在对美国的间谍活动进行审核，而他希望美国在印尼从事间谍活动的方式将因此发生改变。
“What I am now anticipating and what I am now understanding is that the kind of refinement in approach, refinement in outlook and practice will be relevant to a country like Indonesia as a partner of the United States,” Mr. Natalegawa said.
纳塔莱加瓦说，“根据我的期望和我了解的情况，对于印尼这样的美国合作伙伴来说，这种方式、前景和实践上的完善是有意义的。”
He was more direct in his comments about the behavior of Australia, Indonesia’s neighbor. The article in The Times said that the document did not identify which talks were being monitored, but that two trade disputes at the time involved shrimp and clove cigarettes.
评论印尼邻国澳大利亚的行为时，他的措辞则较为直接。《纽约时报》在文章中说，前述文件没有指明哪些谈话受到了监听，不过，当时的两次贸易争端与虾和香烟有关。
“To suggest as if the future of shrimps exported by Indonesia to the United States had an impact on Australia’s security is a little bit too much,” Mr. Natalegawa said, “and begs some kind of serious question about what this is all about.” In a wide-ranging interview with ABC Radio in Australia on Monday morning, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the Australian government would not comment directly on intelligence matters, but he did say that “Australia does need to have a strong intelligence operation.”
“认为印尼虾出口美国的前景会对澳大利亚的安全产生影响，这种想法有些过分，”纳塔莱加瓦说，“还引发了一些关于这些事情用意何在的严肃问题。”周一早间接受澳大利亚澳洲广播电台( ABC Radio)的广泛采访时，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)表示，澳大利亚政府不会直接评论情报事务。不过，当时他确实表示，“澳大利亚确实需要强大的情报行动。”
“Australian intelligence has been instrumental in the prevention of numerous terrorist attacks, including terrorist attacks in Indonesia,” he added. “We have very good intelligence and security cooperation with Indonesia, and that is going to continue.”
“澳大利亚的情报工作发挥了重要作用，阻止了大量恐怖袭击的发生，包括发生在印尼的一些恐怖袭击，”他补充说。“我们与印尼开展了良好的情报及安全合作，这种合作将继续下去。”
Mr. Abbott denied that Australia collects information that would benefit businesses commercially, either in Australia or in the United States.
阿博特否认了澳大利亚在国内或美国收集有利于企业商业利益的信息的说法。
Australia’s relationship with Indonesia has been tested in recent months over Australia’s policy on asylum seekers. The conservative Abbott government, elected in September, came to office on a promise to turn back to Indonesia boats carrying asylum seekers.
最近几个月，澳大利亚与印尼的关系因澳方针对庇护寻求者的政策而受到了考验。保守的阿博特政府在去年9月的选举中获胜上台，执政伊始就承诺阻止载有庇护寻求者的印尼船只靠岸。
The government, while refusing to comment on its operations at sea, has been accused of loading asylum seekers into lifeboats and towing them back toward Indonesian territorial waters. The Australian Navy has also been accused of entering Indonesian territorial waters.
澳大利亚政府拒绝就该国的海上行动置评，人们指责该政府将庇护寻求者带上救生艇，并将他们拖回印尼领海。澳大利亚海军还被控进入了印尼领海。
Mr. Abbott said on Monday that despite strong protests from Indonesia over the incursions, he believed that “Australia has a strong relationship with Indonesia; it is a very, very important relationship.” He said that Mr. Natalegawa and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia were good friends of Australia, adding, “I am confident that our relationship is going to go from strength to strength.”
阿博特周一表示，尽管入侵印尼领海的行为遭到了印尼的强烈抗议，他还是认为，“澳大利亚与印尼关系牢固，两国关系非常、非常重要。”他表示，纳塔莱加瓦和印尼总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)都是澳大利亚的好朋友，“我相信我们的关系会越来越牢固。”
Mr. Kerry sought to play down the spying issue, saying that he understood Indonesia’s concerns and that President Obama had pledged to overhaul American spying practices.
克里试图弱化间谍问题，称他理解印尼方面的担忧，而奥巴马总统也已承诺彻查美国的间谍行动。