NEW DELHI — Indian naval divers on Wednesday afternoon opened the main hatchway of a stricken, Russian-made Indian submarine that caught fire, blew up and sank at dock earlier in the day in one of the worst naval accidents in Indian history.
新德里——周三下午，印度海军潜水员打开了一艘出事潜艇的主舱口，当天早些时候，这艘由俄罗斯建造的印度潜艇在码头着火、爆炸并沉没，这是印度史上最严重的海军事故之一。
But visibility for the divers within the sunken boat was almost zero, and the effort to rescue or recover the 18 missing crew members was expected to take time. Three sailors who were on the outside of the ship when it exploded managed to scramble to safety.
但在这艘已沉潜艇的内部，潜水员的能见度几乎为零，救援或打捞18名失踪船员的行动预计需要些时间。潜艇爆炸时身处潜艇外部的三名船员成功地逃到了安全区域。
Adm. D. K. Joshi, India’s naval chief, said at a news conference that the chances were slim that any of the missing sailors remained alive.
印度海军司令D·K·乔希上将(Adm. D. K. Joshi)在新闻发布会上说，失踪船员中有人还活着的可能性不大。
“There is a possibility, however remote it might be, of an air pocket,” he said. “We hope for the best but have to be ready for the worst.”
“有可能存在一个气穴，不管这种可能性有多小，”他说，“我们怀有最好的期待，但也必须做最坏的打算。”
The submarine was docked at the Lion Gate naval shipyard, close to South Mumbai’s busy financial district and within two miles of the Gateway of India. The water where the accident occurred is so shallow that part of the stricken vessel protruded above the surface.
这艘潜艇停靠在位于雄狮门(Lion Gate)的海军船厂，距离南孟买繁忙的金融区很近，离印度门(Gateway of India)也不到两英里（约合3.2公里）。出事的地方水很浅，以至于这艘出事的潜艇的一部分露出了水面。
Admiral Joshi said there had been no communication with the missing crew since a small explosion around midnight near the bow of the submarine ignited two huge blasts from onboard munitions, possibly torpedoes or cruise missiles. The heat from the explosions and the resulting two-hour fire was so intense that it fused the submarine’s hatchways, making rescue efforts even more challenging.
乔希上将称，午夜前后，潜艇船头附近发生的小规模爆炸点燃了船上的军需品，可能是鱼雷或巡航导弹，造成了两次大爆炸，自那之后，便没再能联系上失踪船员。爆炸以及随后的一场持续两小时的大火产生了大量的热量，以至于潜艇的舱口都熔化了，这让救援工作的难度更高了。
“We cannot rule out the possibility of sabotage, although the indicators at this time would not support that conclusion,” Admiral Joshi said. “It is essentially an onboard explosion.”
“我们不能排除蓄意破坏的可能，尽管已有迹象都不支持那样的结论，”乔希上将说，“基本上是潜艇上发生的一起爆炸。”
The cause of the explosion on the 16-year-old INS Sindhurakshak, could not be immediately determined. After a February 2010 explosion in the battery compartment left one dead and two injured, the vessel was sent to the Zvezdochka shipyard in Russia for a two-and-a-half-year, $80 million retrofit. It was handed back to the Indian Navy in January, and went on a three-month, 10,000-mile shakedown cruise that ended successfully in April in Mumbai.
还无法确定已有16年历史的“辛杜拉克沙克”号(INS Sindhurakshak)发生爆炸的原因。2010年，电池舱发生的一起爆炸导致一人死亡、两人受伤后，这艘潜艇被送往俄罗斯兹维兹欧契卡船厂(Zvezdochka)接受了两年半的改装翻新，耗资8000万美元（约合4.9亿元人民币）。今年1月，潜艇被交还给印度海军，并进行了一次历时三个月、航程1万英里的试航。4月，试航在孟买圆满结束。
The crew had recharged the sub’s batteries three days before the blast, so a battery leak was not a likely cause this time, Admiral Joshi said.
乔希上将说，爆炸发生前三天，船员对潜艇电池重新充上了电，因此原因不太可能是电池漏液。
After divers explore the submarine for survivors, they will try to seal two or three internal compartments, expel the water and refloat the boat, Admiral Joshi said. Only then will investigators be able to begin to look into the causes of the accident.
乔希上将说，在潜水员为寻找幸存者而对潜艇进行搜查后，他们将尝试封住两个或三个内舱，排出里面的水，然后让潜艇重新浮起来。只有到那时，调查人员才能开始调查事故原因。
Defense Minister A. K. Antony went to Mumbai, where the entrance to the shipyard was heavily guarded on Wednesday by police and naval personnel. A scrum of journalists and onlookers stood outside the gates for much of the day.
印度国防部长A·K·安东尼(A. K. Antony)去了孟买。周三，警察和海军重重守卫着发生事故的船厂的入口。当天大部分时间，一群乱哄哄的记者和旁观者都站在门外。
“I express my heartfelt condolences to the families of those sailors and officers who were inside this submarine,” the minister said at the news conference.
“我向尚在潜艇里的官兵的家人表示诚挚的慰问，”安东尼在新闻发布会上说。
An Indian news channel, NDTV, broadcast a viewer’s video of what appeared to be a series of blasts lighting up the Mumbai sky. The explosions took place a day before India’s Independence Day celebrations, when security is normally tightened at government offices and military facilities.
印度新闻频道NDTV播放了一个事故目击者拍摄的视频，视频看上去拍摄的是一系列爆炸，照亮了孟买的天空。爆炸发生在印度独立日(Independence Day)庆祝活动的前一天，此时，政府机构和军事设施通常都会加强警戒。
The Sindhurakshak is one of the 10 Kilo-class submarines that form the backbone of India’s conventional submarine force. India is building a new class of conventional submarines, called the Scorpene, with French and Spanish help. But that effort, like many Indian defense projects, has been marred by delays and squabbling among its international partners, and the first submarines are not expected to be delivered until 2015 at the earliest.
“辛杜拉克沙克”号是印度10艘“基洛”(Kilo)级潜艇中的一艘，这10艘潜艇构成了印度传统潜艇力量的支柱。印度正在法国和西班牙的帮助下建造一类新的传统潜艇，即“鲉鱼”(Scorpene)级潜艇。但和印度的许多国防项目一样，这一努力被多次延误，项目涉及的跨国合作伙伴之间也争吵不断，首批潜艇预计最早也要到2015年才能交付。
India has long relied on Russian-made military equipment, including MIG-21 fighters, whose safety and reliability have been increasingly questioned. India is the largest arms buyer in the world because its own defense manufacturing industry has been unable to deliver high-quality, low-cost weapons to satisfy the country’s wide range of defense needs.
长期以来，印度一直依赖俄罗斯制造的军事装备，其中包括米格-21(MIG-21)战斗机，这些装备的安全性和可靠性越来越受到质疑。印度是全球最大的武器买家，原因是印度自己的国防制造业无法交付高质量、低成本的武器，来满足印度广泛的国防需求。
“This accident again raises questions about Russian standards of manufacture and repair,” Adm. Arun Prakash, who retired from the Indian Navy in 2006, said in an interview. “Russian equipment is not always the best, and it is prone to failures.”
2006年从印度海军退役的海军上将阿伦·普拉卡什(Arun Prakash)在一次采访中说，“此次事故再次让人对俄罗斯的武器生产和维修标准产生怀疑。俄罗斯的武器装备不见得总是最好的，它们容易出故障。”
India’s defense purchases are increasingly crucial to the Russians, who have lost major customers in Libya and other Arab nations affected by the Arab Spring. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia visited India in December and signed weapons contracts valued at $2.9 billion.
印度的军备采购对俄罗斯越来越重要，后者已经失去了来自利比亚和其他受“阿拉伯之春”(Arab Spring)影响的阿拉伯国家的主要客户。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京于去年12月访问了印度，双方签署了价值29亿美元(约合177.3亿元人民币)的武器合同。
India’s submarine service was already depleted before the explosion. Only nine of its submarines were considered operational before Wednesday, and just five or six are operating at any given time — too few to guard India’s extensive coastline adequately.
爆炸发生前，印度的服役潜艇已经所剩无几。周三之前，只有九艘潜艇被认定是可以作战的，只有五到六艘潜艇可以随时作战，这个数量少得不足以称职地保卫印度漫长的海岸线。
India has become increasingly concerned about China’s naval ambitions and is desperately trying to catch up with its larger rival’s rapid naval-building program. But China now has roughly 260 ships compared with fewer than 100 for India.
印度对中国的海上野心的担忧日渐加剧，面对更庞大的中国对手正在快速实施的海军建设计划，印度在不顾一切地试图追赶。然而，中国现在拥有260艘左右的战舰，相比之下，印度只有不到100艘。
India’s attempts to create its own defense manufacturing sector have been riddled with failure. Efforts to design and build new aircraft, tanks, howitzers and machine guns have failed spectacularly in recent decades.
印度打造本国国防制造业的尝试屡屡失败。过去几十年里，印度设计和制造新飞机、坦克、榴弹炮和机关枪的努力均遭遇了惊人的失败。
The navy has fared relatively better than the other branches, and its launching of the hull of the first indigenously built aircraft carrier on Monday was a huge step forward. But the navy still must buy critical matériel and technology from foreign suppliers.
印度海军比印度其他军事部门的进展要相对好一些，本周一，印度海军实现了首艘国产航母下水，这是一个巨大的飞跃。不过，印度海军依然必须从外国供应商手中购买关键的军需物资和技术。
Yet corruption scandals have marred Indian defense contracting so badly that the government has slowed its purchases abroad for fear of igniting further controversy. Unable to build or buy, India is becoming dangerously short of vital defense equipment, analysts say.
不仅如此，印度的国防承包领域深为腐败丑闻所困，以至于政府已经放缓了其国外采购计划，原因是害怕激起进一步的争议。分析人士说，由于无法制造或采购军备，印度现在的国防装备必需品匮乏已经到了危险的程度。
A recent scandal involved a $600 million contract for 12 high-end helicopters for top Indian officials, bought from the Italian manufacturer Finmeccanica. Italian prosecutors say the contract was marred by bribery and that Finmeccanica knew some of the Indian Air Force’s supposedly secret requirements for the contract while bidding on it.
最近的一桩丑闻涉及一单6亿美元的合同，内容是从意大利制造商芬梅卡尼卡(Finmeccanica)手中，为印度高官购买12架高端直升机。意大利检方说，这单合同被贿赂行为给毁了，芬梅卡尼卡投标时掌握了印度空军的一些要求，而这些要求理应属于机密。
Another problem has been a history of distrust of the military by India’s dominant political class. India won its independence through strikes and protest marches, not by force of arms, and India’s main rival, Pakistan, has been dominated by military dictators for much of its history. India’s leaders have tried to keep its military at a distance, and military leaders are rarely invited into the inner circle of decision-making.
另一个问题由来已久，那就是在印度占主宰地位的政治阶层始终不信任军方。印度通过罢工和抗议游行赢得独立，而不是靠武装力量，历史上大部分时期，印度的主要对手巴基斯坦都受到军方独裁者的统治。印度的领导人已经尝试和军方保持一定距离，军方领导人很少被邀请加入印度的内部决策圈子。
India’s strategic challenges are mounting. After a long quiescence, India and Pakistan have recently traded fire along their disputed boundary in Kashmir, and China has been probing its disputed border regions with India in unusually confrontational ways.
印度面临的战略挑战正在增加。在长时间的静寂之后，印度和巴基斯坦最近已经在克什米尔的争议边界区交火，而中国一直在以一种格外咄咄逼人的方式勘察中印边境争议区。
And after a nearly a decade of rapid growth, India’s economy has in recent months slowed substantially. The value of the rupee has plunged while the country’s foreign exchange reserves have dwindled, making purchases of foreign equipment even more difficult and dear.
在经历了几乎长达十年的快速增长之后，印度经济已在近几个月大幅放缓。卢比价格大跌，而印度的外汇储备已经逐渐减少，这些原因让外国军备的采购甚至更为艰难，成本也更昂贵。
“This is a turbulent birthday for India,” C. Uday Bhaskar, a retired Indian Navy commodore who is now with the National Maritime Foundation, the navy’s civilian research center, said in an interview. “The security challenges for this country are complex and mounting.”
印度海军退役准将C·乌代·巴斯卡尔(C. Uday Bhaskar)在一次采访中说，“对印度来说，这是一个暗流涌动的生日。印度面临着复杂的、不断上升的安全挑战。”巴斯卡现在印度海军民用研究中心印度海事基金会(National Maritime Foundation)任职。