SAN FRANCISCO — Several years ago, I traveled to India as an official for the State Department. The United States government has stringent rules about gifts. The only item I was ever able to accept was a pink plastic alarm clock that wakes one to the loud wail of the Islamic call to prayer. Knowing this, foreign governments generally understand that no shady dealings with American officials are possible.
旧金山——几年前，我还在美国国务院(State Department)任职时去过一次印度。美国政府对收受礼物有着严格的规定。我收下的唯一一件礼物是一个粉色的塑料闹钟，它会用响亮的召唤穆斯林做礼拜的宣礼声叫人起床。外国政府知道这一点，往往明白不可能和美国官员进行什么不正当交易。
The midlevel official I met in India’s Ministry of Science and Technology had different ideas. I briefly visited his dilapidated office to discuss Indian-American cooperation on scientific research. After a few minutes, his face lit up.
但我在印度科技部(Ministry of Science and Technology)遇到的那名中层官员却有不同的看法。我短暂地去他破旧的办公室商讨美印两国在科研方面的合作事宜。几分钟后，他喜笑颜开。
“The ministry has a large budget to host a conference for U.S. and Indian entrepreneurs working in the sciences,” he said. “You know lots of entrepreneurs, so why don’t you organize the conference for us? I will pay you to do it, and you can give me 10 percent of the fee back.”
“科技部有一大笔预算，要举办一场面向美国和印度科技领域企业家的会议，”他说。“既然你认识很多企业家，为什么不帮我们组织这个会议呢？我会付钱给你的，然后你可以返10%的费用给我。”
I stared at him for a moment. He clearly felt not the slightest embarrassment at proposing a kickback likely larger than his annual salary. I mumbled something about not being the right person for this, and got out of his office as fast as I could. I chose not to report him because I couldn’t be 100 percent sure I hadn’t misunderstood, but the encounter stayed with me.
我盯着他看了一会儿。他提出的回扣可能比他一年的薪水还多。但显然，他丝毫未感到尴尬。我含糊地说自己不是合适的人选，并尽快走出了他的办公室。我选择不举报他，因为我不是百分之百地确定自己没有误解他的意思，但这件事一直留在我的脑海里。
Corruption is hardly unique to India, and the country has somewhat improved its transparency rankings in recent years, but graft still acts like an enormous tax on the economy. In one scandal, telecommunications licenses were sold at below-market rates to preferred bidders, costing the government up to $39 billion — roughly the size of India’s defense budget at the time. The country’s system of selling coal licenses has been similarly opaque and wasteful, costing the government an estimated $33 billion.
腐败绝不是印度独有的问题，并且近年来，印度还在一定程度上提高了自己的透明度排名，但贪腐依然是印度经济面临的一大负担。在一桩丑闻中，电信执照被以低于市场价的价格卖给关系较硬的竞购者，给政府造成的损失最高达390亿美元，几乎相当于印度当时的国防预算。该国出售煤炭执照的制度也同样不透明和浪费，政府因此蒙受的损失估计为330亿美元。
Tackling graft is the linchpin to fixing income inequality, environmental problems and creaking education and pension systems, and to appeasing growing public anger. For corruption erodes trust in government, as India’s Congress Party discovered when it was turned out of office in 2014, in large part because many ministers were seen as inept and corrupt.
处理贪腐问题是解决收入差距、环境问题、教育和养老金制度千疮百孔的问题，平息公众日渐加剧的愤怒的关键。因为正如印度国民大会党(Congress Party)在2014年被迫下台时所发现的那样，腐败会削弱民众对政府的信任。国大党下台在很大程度上是因为民众认为很多部长无能，腐败。
Beginning in 2011, the activist Anna Hazare, who describes himself as a disciple of Gandhi and has the same friendly, spectacled look, engaged in fasts and protests for more than two years, prompting hundreds of thousands of Indians to take to the streets. He wants the government to establish a national ombudsman’s office to investigate and prosecute corruption. So far, he has not succeeded at the national level, although a new anti-corruption party inspired by Mr. Hazare won recent local elections in Delhi.
从2011年开始，活动人士安纳·哈扎尔(Anna Hazare)在两年多时间里多次进行绝食和抗议，促使数十万印度人走上了街头。哈扎尔自称甘地的追随者，和甘地一样神情和蔼，也同样戴眼镜。他希望政府成立一个全国性的调查员办公室，负责调查腐败事件，检举涉事人员。迄今为止，他尚未取得全国范围内的成功，不过最近，一个新成立的反腐败政党赢得了德里的地方选举。该政党正是受哈扎尔的鼓舞成立的。
Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has taken steps in the right direction by holding transparent auctions for public contracts, putting many government services online, and quietly making it harder for tycoons to get special favors. The most effective solution to date has come from outside the government, led by the Internet entrepreneur, Infosys founder and self-made billionaire Nandan M. Nilekani.
印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)领导的政府已经采取了一些方向正确的措施，包括对公共合同进行透明的拍卖、让很多政府服务可通过网上办理、悄悄增加巨头们获得特殊照顾的难度。截至目前，最有效的解决办法来自政府之外，是由互联网企业家南丹·M·尼尔卡尼(Nandan M. Nilekani)领导的一个项目。白手起家的亿万富翁尼尔卡尼是印孚瑟斯(Infosys)的创始人。
Mr. Nilekani is no neo-Gandhian folk hero. Tall and impeccably dressed, with a graying Rhett Butler mustache, he is a regular at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
尼尔卡尼不是信奉新甘地主义的民间英雄。身材高大、着装无可挑剔、留着白瑞德(Rhett Butler)那样的花白胡子的他，是每年在瑞士达沃斯举行的世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)的常客。
About six years ago, with government support, Mr. Nilekani’s engineers created a biometric ID program named Aadhaar. Aadhaar takes fingerprints and iris scans to generate a national identity number for every Indian. More than one billion Indians have signed up. Those with numbers can now use a simple smartphone app to collect government pensions or scholarships, or receive banking services — all bribe-free.
大约六年前，在政府的支持下，尼尔卡尼手下的工程师开发出了一个名叫Aadhaar的生物识别身份系统。Aadhaar会通过指纹采集和虹膜扫描，为每一个印度人生成一个全国身份号码。已有逾10亿印度人在该系统中注册。如今，拥有自己的身份号码的人，可以用一款简单的智能手机应用来领取政府发放的养老金或奖学金，甚至享受银行服务。所有这一切都不涉及贿赂。
One of those it helped is Ram, a farmer in central India (it’s common for rural Indians to go by only one name). He works for the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which guarantees the poor a minimum of 100 days a year of paid work building roads or upgrading irrigation systems. To get his meager wages of 800 rupees (about $12) a week, Mr. Ram had to take a day off work, ride the roof of a creaking bus to a nearby town and line up in the dusty heat for three hours to see a local bureaucrat who would likely deduct a fee from Mr. Ram’s wages. The whole rigmarole reduced his actual pay by about a third.
印度中部的农民拉姆(Ram)便是受益于该系统的人之一（印度农民只有单一名字的现象很普遍）。他为全国农村就业保障计划(National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme)工作。该计划保障穷人一年至少从事100天的带薪工作，工作内容是修路或升级灌溉系统。以前，为了领取一周800卢比（约合人民币78元）的微薄工资，拉姆不得不请一天假，坐在嘎吱作响的公交车的车顶上前往附近的小镇，再顶着尘土和酷热排三个小时的队，才能站在当地一名官员的面前。后者可能会从拉姆的工资中扣除一部分，作为手续费。整个冗长繁琐的手续让他的实际收入减少了大约三分之一。
An Indian government study found that, on average, people like Mr. Ram receive only 61 percent of the wages they are owed by the government. The rest just disappears. Many government officials are barely paid a living wage, so this is also how they make ends meet.
印度政府进行的一项研究发现，像拉姆这样的人平均只能领到政府应发放给他们的工资的61%。剩下的就那样不见了。很多政府官员的工资几乎不够糊口，他们正是通过这样做到收支相抵的。
Mr. Ram is proud of his Aadhaar ID card. To get his wages, he now simply stops at his corner grocery store. The owner scans Mr. Ram’s fingerprints on a phone app and then pays him, keeping only a legal 10 rupee (16 cent) commission.
拉姆对自己的Aadhaar身份卡感到骄傲。现在，要领工资的话，他只需去街角的杂货店即可。老板会用手机应用扫描他的指纹，然后付钱给他，只收取法定的10卢比手续费。
Those who have previously benefited from India’s opaque systems are naturally opposed to Aadhaar. Some politicians argued that the Aadhaar system was a waste of money or infringed on privacy. Mr. Modi recently threw his support behind it, which silenced some of the critics.
以前受益于印度制度不透明的那些人自然会反对Aadhaar。一些政界人士称Aadhaar系统浪费钱，或说它侵犯了隐私。莫迪最近表示了对该系统的支持，这让一些批评人士闭上了嘴。
A recent World Bank report said that digital ID transfers are already saving the Indian government $1 billion a year on just one fuel subsidy program. This success offers hope, but the rear-guard battle demonstrates what a herculean task broader reform will be.
世界银行(World Bank)最近的一份报告称，仅在一项燃油补贴计划上，数字身份转账一年就为印度政府节省了10亿美元。这种成功给人们带来了希望，但期间出现的抵制行动表明，更广泛的改革将是一项异常艰巨的任务。
The Aadhaar program and Mr. Modi’s emphasis on more open government contracting are an excellent start, but other possible fixes include setting up an independent commission to try the worst offenders — along the lines of what Mr. Hazare is proposing. India requires public officials to disclose their assets, but this is not always enforced. Pay increases for state officials would also be a useful carrot to encourage compliance. Above all, a comprehensive ethics and education campaign in schools and the news media would shift cultural norms away from seeing graft as an inevitable part of life.
这个Aadhaar计划，以及莫迪对政府合同透明度的强调是一个良好的开端，但其他可能的解决办法包括成立一个独立委员会，审判罪大恶极的罪犯——就像哈扎尔的提议的那样。印度要求政府官员公布自己的资产，但这项规定并非总是得到了执行。给公职人员涨薪也是鼓励官员守法的有效手段。最重要的是，在学校和新闻媒体上开展一场全面的道德和教育运动，改变文化规范，让贪腐不再被视为生活中不可避免的一部分。
India has begun many of these steps, in a limited way. It will prosper if the government redoubles its efforts.
印度已经启动了其中很多措施，不过力度有限。如果政府加倍努力，印度将会繁荣起来。