NEW DELHI —Relief operations continued Monday in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir and in parts of Pakistan where six days of rain and flooding have left hundreds of people dead, with the death toll likely to rise further.
新德里——周一，印控克什米尔地区和巴基斯坦部分地区的救灾工作仍在继续。六天的暴雨和洪水已造成数百人丧生，而且死亡人数很可能会继续增加。
On the Pakistan side of the border, Ahmed Kamal, a spokesman for the National Disaster Management Authority said that 194 people had been killed — 63 in the Pakistan-administered part of Kashmir and 131 in Punjab province.
在边境线的巴基斯坦一边，国家灾难管理局(National Disaster Management Authority)发言人艾哈迈德·卡迈勒(Ahmed Kamal)称，目前已有194人丧生——巴控克什米尔地区有63人，旁遮普省则为131人。
In the Indian-administered part of Kashmir, more than 150 people have been killed by the floods, with 140 dead in the Jammu region, according to the office of the divisional commissioner there, and at least 11 in the Kashmir Valley. The death toll is expected to rise, as parts of the Kashmir Valley were inundated and nearly inaccessible.
印控克什米尔的区域行政长官办公室称，当地共有150余人在洪水中丧生，其中140人死于查谟地区，至少11人死于克什米尔河谷。由于克什米尔河谷已部分被淹没，几乎无法进入，死亡人数预计还将增加。
Water levels rose to 15 to 18 feet in parts of Srinagar, the summer capital of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, on Sunday evening, when the Jhelum River breached its banks at several sites in the city, according to a statement from the Indian army Monday.
根据印度军方周一的声明，在查谟-克什米尔邦的夏季首府斯利那加的部分地区，周日夜间，杰赫勒姆河冲破了这座城市的几处堤坝，因此那里的水位已经上涨至15到18英尺（约合4.5到5.5米）。
“For the next 48 hours our focus will remain on Srinagar and areas of south Kashmir because there are still a very large number of people stranded without food and water, and our idea is to pull them as quickly as possible,” Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda, chief of the Indian army's Northern Command, said at a news conference Monday afternoon.
“接下来48小时，我们的重点将继续集中在斯利那加和克什米尔南部地区，因为那里仍然有大量人员被困，且没有食物和水。我们的想法是尽快把他们解救出来，”印度陆军北方司令部指挥官D·S·弘达中将(D.S. Hooda)在周一下午的新闻发布会上说。
Shakeela Rahman, 34, has spent the past few nights sleeping on a divider on a road that connects Bemina, where she lives, to Srinagar. She fled her home with her two small children early Friday morning, after water started flowing into houses there.
过去的好几个晚上，34岁的沙基拉·拉赫曼(Shakeela Rahman)都睡在一条公路的隔离带上。那条公路连接着斯利那加和她生活的地方贝米纳。周五凌晨，在家里的房屋开始进水后，她带着两个年幼的孩子弃家而逃。
“We have not eaten anything, my kids are starving, and our house is completely submerged under water,” Rahman said.
“我们没吃一口东西，我的孩子正在忍饥挨饿，我们的房子现在完全被淹没了，”拉赫曼说。
The army has evacuated about 22,000 people, with 3,000 removed Sunday, according to an army statement. The army distributed food, water, tents and blankets Monday.
军方在声明称，已疏散了大约2.2万人，其中3000人是周日转移的。军方在周一分发了食物、水、帐篷和毯子。