An alleged beating of an Indonesian domestic helper by her Hong Kong employer has drawn new attention to the treatment of the hundreds of thousands of such workers in the territory, raising questions about whether the authorities are vigilant in preventing abuses in such cases.
一名印尼籍家庭佣工据称被其香港雇主殴打，这为香港数十万同类工人的待遇问题吸引到了新关注，并引发了一些质疑，即在防止类似虐待事件的过程中，有关部门是否足够警觉。
The helper, Erwiana Sulistyaningsih, returned to Indonesia on Jan. 10, traveling through Hong Kong International Airport with the assistance of a friend because of cuts and burns on much of her body, according to a report in the South China Morning Post. The newspaper said she was now in critical condition at an Indonesian hospital.
《南华早报》的一篇报道称，这个名为艾维亚纳·苏里斯特亚宁斯(Erwiana Sulistyaningsih)的家庭佣工，已于1月10号从香港国际机场回到印尼。由于身上遍布刀伤和烫伤，她在一名朋友的帮助下才得以回国。这家报纸说，她现在一家印尼医院里，情况危重。
Ms. Sulistyaningsih, who had worked for eight months for a family in Tseung Kwan O in the New Territories, was apparently given 100 Hong Kong dollars, about $13, by her employers before her departure and told not to talk to any Indonesians before boarding the plane, according to the South China Morning Post.
据《南华早报》报道，苏里斯特亚宁斯此前在新界将军澳的一个家庭里工作了八个月。在她离开之前，雇主似乎给了她100港元（约合人民币77元），并告诉她在登机前不要同任何印尼人讲话。
Hong Kong is home to an estimated 300,000 domestic workers, and they provide valuable services like child care to the city’s busy workforce. Amnesty International said in a report last year that Indonesian workers are particularly prone to abuses, as employment agencies lure them with promises of high pay, demand high fees to secure work for the helpers and then often withhold their documents to prevent them from leaving the territory.
香港有大约30万名家庭佣工，他们为这个城市忙碌的上班族提供了重要的服务，比如照看孩子。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)去年在一份报告中说，印尼的工人尤其容易受到虐待，因为劳务中介机构用高薪承诺来诱惑他们，向他们索要高昂的费用，为他们找到工作，然后经常扣下他们的证件，从而防止他们离开香港。
“They are using deception and coercion to recruit Indonesian migrants and to compel them to work in situations which violate their human and labor rights,” said the November 2013 report. It said Hong Kong employers then “frequently subject migrant domestic workers to serious human rights violations in Hong Kong, including physical or verbal abuse.”
2013年11月发布的这份报告说，“他们正在用欺骗和恐吓来雇佣印尼籍工人，迫使他们在人权和劳动权益受到侵犯的情况下工作。”报告说，此后，香港的雇主“常常严重侵犯外籍家庭佣工的人权，其中包括身体和语言上的侮辱。”
The treatment of such workers attracted intense media attention last fall when a Hong Kong couple was sentenced to three to five years in prison for essentially jailing their Indonesian helper for two years and torturing her by beating her with bicycle chains, a hot iron and a paper cutter. The woman was also allegedly tied to a chair for five days during the family’s vacation, and left without food and water.
去年秋天，这类工人的待遇曾引发媒体的大量关注，当时，一对香港夫妇因为把一名印尼籍佣人囚禁了两年，并用自行车链、发烫的熨斗和裁纸的刀片伤害她，被判处三到五年监禁。据称，这对夫妇在度假期间，还曾连续五天把这名女佣绑在一把椅子上，没有给她留下任何食物和水。
In the latest case, the woman’s employment agency filed a report with the Hong Kong police alerting them to the alleged mistreatment — after she had left the territory.
在最新的案例中，这名印尼女佣所在的劳务机构向香港警方提交了一份报告，提醒他们注意可能存在的虐待行为——但这是在她离开香港之后。
“On the afternoon of Jan. 12, the police received notice from an domestic helper recruitment firm, that a foreign domestic helper was suspected of having been tortured by her employer,” said a police statement.
香港警方的一份声明说，“1月12日下午，警方收到了一个家庭佣工雇佣公司的信函，称一名外籍家庭佣工可能受到了雇主的虐待。”
The woman apparently paid 18,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $2,300, to secure her job through an employment agency, even though such agencies are only allowed to charge 401 Hong Kong dollars under Hong Kong law, Robert Godden, an official with Amnesty International, told the South China Morning Post.
国际特赦组织的官员罗伯特·戈登(Robert Godden)告诉《南华早报》，这名女佣为了获得工作，似乎向这家劳务机构支付了1.8万港元的费用，即2300美元。但根据香港的法律，这样的机构只被允许收取401港元的中介费。
In its November report, Amnesty faulted the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Indonesian government for not doing enough to prevent such abuses.
在11月的报告中，国际特赦组织指责香港特别行政区和印尼政府没有采取足够行动防止此类事件发生。
“The Indonesian and Hong Kong SAR governments have not complied with their international obligations to prevent and suppress trafficking and the use of forced labor,” the report said. “They have failed to properly monitor, investigate and sanction individuals and organizations which are violating domestic legislation in their respective territories.”
报告说，“印尼和香港特别行政区政府没有履行其防止和打击贩卖、使用强制劳工的国际义务。对于在各自的管辖地违反当地法律的组织和个人，他们未能予以应有的监督、调查和制裁。”