JAKARTA, Indonesia — The relationship between Indonesia and Australia, Pacific neighbors with a long history of cooperation and trade, has in recent years been marked by disagreements on a range of issues, including human rights, terrorism and asylum seekers. But relations reached a new low over the weekend over the latest bombshell from the surveillance scandal involving a third country, the United States.
印度尼西亚雅加达——近年来，作为两个有着长期合作与贸易史的太平洋邻国，印尼和澳大利亚在人权、恐怖主义和庇护寻求者等一系列问题上产生了争议。但是，两国关系在周末降入了前所未有的低谷，原因则是与另一个国家有关的监听丑闻的最新演变，这个国家就是美国。
The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, announced at a news conference on Monday night that he had recalled Indonesia’s ambassador to Canberra, the Australian capital, for “consultations” over reports that Australia, a close ally of the United States, used its embassies in Asia to collect intelligence as part of global surveillance conducted by the United States’ National Security Agency. The Indonesian government also said it would review its security cooperation and information exchanges with Australia.
印尼外交部长马蒂·纳塔莱加瓦(Marty Natalegawa)周一晚上在新闻发布会上说，他已经召回了印尼驻澳大利亚首都堪培拉的大使，目的是就相关报道进行“商议”，报道称，作为美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）全球监听项目的部分内容，美国的亲密盟友澳大利亚曾利用其驻亚洲大使馆来搜集情报。印尼政府还表示，它将对与澳大利亚的安全合作和信息交换进行审核。
Arguably Indonesia’s most important bilateral relationship and security partner, Australia is a familiar target of Indonesia’s anger.
澳大利亚可说是印尼最重要的双边关系和安全合作伙伴，但也经常是印尼发泄怒气的目标。
Yet Mr. Natalegawa curiously ignored the role of the United States, making no mention of the status of Indonesia’s ambassador to Washington. “It has not been a very good day for the Indonesia-Australia relationship,” Mr. Natalegawa said.
然而，纳塔莱加瓦莫名其妙地忽略了美国，完全没有提到印尼驻华盛顿大使的情况。纳塔莱加瓦说，“对于印澳关系来说，这一天不怎么样。”
In Canberra on Tuesday, Prime Minister Tony Abbott defended his government’s intelligence operations abroad, without addressing the accusations regarding Indonesia.
周二，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在堪培拉为澳大利亚政府的海外情报行动做了辩护，其中没有提到与印尼相关的指控。
“Australia should not be expected to apologize for the steps we take to protect our country now or in the past, any more than other governments should be expected to apologize for the similar steps that they have taken,” he said in a statement before Australia’s Parliament.
他在澳大利亚议会发表声明称，“澳大利亚没有理由为我们现在或过去采取的卫国举措道歉，正如其他政府也没有理由为类似举措道歉。”
After the German magazine Der Spiegel published documents last month leaked by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, Mr. Natalegawa summoned the ambassadors of Australia and the United States to respond to reports that Australia’s embassy in Jakarta was part of the United States-led spying effort. The documents said Canberra had tried to bug the phone of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.
上个月，在德国杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)刊发前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登泄露的文件之后，纳塔莱加瓦召集澳大利亚和美国大使前来回应此事，因为报道称澳大利亚驻雅加达大使馆也参与了美国领导的间谍活动。泄露的文件称，堪培拉曾试图监听印尼总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)的手机。
The two countries are separated by only about 125 miles at their closest point, but differences are stark: Australia is a wealthy, progressive country with a majority of Christians, while Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority nation, is a developing country with small but vocal radical Islamic groups promoting jihad against the West. Terrorist attacks against Australian tourists on the resort island of Bali, boats laden with asylum seekers trying to reach Australia, and even the treatment of live imported Australian cattle in Indonesian slaughterhouses have all strained ties.
印尼和澳大利亚之间的最短距离只有125英里（约合201公里）左右，两国之间的差别却非常明显：澳大利亚富裕而进步，居民多为基督徒；而印尼是世界上最大的由穆斯林主导的国家，也是一个发展中国家，国内数量不多却大胆敢言的激进伊斯兰组织宣称要对西方发动圣战。观光岛屿巴厘岛上的澳大利亚游客多次受到恐怖袭击、大批坐满庇护寻求者的船只试图进入澳大利亚，甚至包括印尼屠宰场对待澳大利亚进口生牛的方式，种种问题都加剧了两国间的紧张气氛。
“There are no two countries that are less like each other,” said Dewi Fortuna Anwar, a senior adviser to the Indonesian vice president, Boediono, who, like many Indonesians, uses only one name. “We have different histories, different ethnicities and until recently, very different political systems.”
“这两个国家的差异大得不能再大，”印尼副总统布迪约诺(Boediono)的高级顾问德韦·福图纳·安瓦尔(Dewi Fortuna Anwar)说，“我们历史不同，种族不同，政治制度直到最近都还完全不同。”像很多印度尼西亚人一样，布迪约诺只使用一节名字。
Dr. Anwar and other analysts cited a survey showing that most Australians believe that Indonesia still has an authoritarian government, despite its transition to democracy after the ouster of President Suharto in 1998. Analysts say some of the blame for the divide can be traced to sensational reporting in both countries, as well as grandstanding by politicians and activists.
安瓦尔博士及其他一些分析人士援引了一项调查，说明大多数澳大利亚人认为印尼仍处于威权政府的统治下，尽管印尼自总统苏哈托(Suharto)于1998年倒台后一直在向民主制度过渡。分析人士表示，造成分歧的部分原因可以追溯到两国发布的耸人听闻的报道，以及政治人士与活动人士哗众取宠的表演。
Beneath the surface, however, the Indonesia-Australia relationship is far more productive. Leaders from both countries have repeatedly called their relationship the most important for their respective countries. Australia is the largest donor of aid to Indonesia — $508 million in the past fiscal year — and Indonesia is Australia’s 13th-largest trading partner. Australia is also the No. 1 international study destination for Indonesian university students, and many current and former cabinet officials, including Mr. Boediono and Mr. Natalegawa, attended Australian universities. The countries’ heads of government have been holding at least four scheduled meetings per year. Indonesia and Australia also engage in regular joint military exercises.
然而，印尼-澳大利亚关系实际上卓有成效。两国领导人多次声称，两国关系对双方来说都是最重要的关系。澳大利亚是印尼的最大援助国，在前面这个财政年度中提供了5.08亿美元（约合31亿元人民币），印尼则是澳大利亚第13大贸易伙伴。澳大利亚还是印尼大学生出国留学的首选国家，包括布迪约诺和纳塔莱加瓦在内的很多现任及前任内阁官员都曾在澳大利亚上大学。两国政府首脑每年至少举行四次预定会议，两国还定期举行联合军事演习。
Yet some analysts say the fundamental problem with the bilateral relationship lies at the people-to-people level.
但一些分析人士表示，双方关系的根本问题在于民众层面。
Calum Hyslop, an Australian researcher and commentator on Australian-Indonesian relations, said some Australians perceived Indonesia as a raucous, dangerous backwater inhabited by Muslim extremists that should be treated with suspicion, while ordinary Indonesians viewed Australia as a lecturing, arrogant Western nation that had little regard for Indonesian sovereignty.
澳大利亚研究人员、澳大利亚-印尼关系评论人士卡鲁姆·希斯洛普(Calum Hyslop)表示，一些澳大利亚人将印尼视作嘈杂危险的蛮荒之地，被穆斯林极端分子占据，应该对其持怀疑态度，而在普通印尼人的眼中，澳大利亚是一个喜欢说教、傲慢自大的西方国家，不尊重印尼的主权。
“Until the Indonesian and Australian governments deal with perceptions of Indonesia within the Australian population, there will be very little interest among Australians to even study the Indonesian language,” he said.
他说，“在印尼及澳大利亚政府改变澳大利亚人对印尼的看法之前，澳大利亚人甚至不会对研究印尼语言感兴趣。”
The recall of the Indonesian ambassador came amid already heightened tensions over asylum seekers, mostly from South Asia and the Middle East, who use Indonesia as a transit point to make the dangerous boat voyage to Australia. This month, Indonesia refused a request by Australia to take about 60 asylum seekers in a crippled boat.
印尼召回大使之际，庇护寻求者的问题已经加剧了紧张局势，这些人大部分都来自南亚及中东，他们将印尼作为中转站，经过危险的小艇航程进入澳大利亚。本月，印尼拒绝了澳大利亚的要求，后者希望印尼接收一艘受损船只上的大约60名庇护寻求者。
Alan Dupont, a professor of international security at the University of New South Wales, said that Indonesia’s intelligence service also used its embassies abroad to spy on its allies, including Australia, and that it was unlikely that either country would stop.
新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales)国际安全教授艾伦·杜邦(Alan Dupont)表示，印尼的情报部门也通过该国的驻外使馆监视包括澳大利亚在内的盟国，两国都不大可能停止监视活动。
“Indonesia has to decide what the endgame is here,” Professor Dupont said. “Some Indonesian elites are upset and out for a bit of blood, and the government has to be seen as doing something.
“印尼必须决定怎么收场，”杜邦说，“印尼的一些精英非常失望，想要进行报复，政府不得不向人们展示有所作为的姿态。”
“I think it will obviously blow over at some stage,” he said. “The question is: how much damage is done?”
“我认为，紧张局势显然会在某个阶段平息，”他说，“问题是：已经造成了多大的损害？”