An Indian forensic science laboratory has confirmed the high presence of a pesticide in the midday meal that killed 23 children last Tuesday. Twenty-five children and a cook are still hospitalized for treatment.
印度的一家法医科学实验室已经确认，上周二有23名学生因为食用了含有某种高浓度杀虫剂的午餐而死亡。另外，还有25名学生和一名厨师正在医院接受治疗。
‘‘The forensic laboratory found monocrotophos in the food. It is a compound of organophospohorus and used to kill pests in agricultural fields,’’ Ravinder Kumar, a senior police officer, said Sunday by phone from Patna, the capital of the eastern state of Bihar.
周日，高级警官拉温德尔·库马尔(Ravinder Kumar)在巴特那（位于印度东部的比哈尔邦的首府）接受电话采访时说，“法医实验室在食物中发现了久效磷。这是一种用来杀死农田害虫的有机磷类化合物。”
‘‘How this poison found its way to midday meals in school is a matter of investigation,’’ said Mr. Kumar.
库马尔说，“究竟这种毒物是如何进入校园午餐的还有待调查。”
The incident took place in Dharamsati Gandaman village in the Saran district of Bihar. Within half an hour of eating a free lunch of rice and potato soybean curry, children started falling ill.
事故发生在比哈尔邦萨兰区的塔尔马萨提·干达瓦(Dharmasati Gandawa)村。在食用了包括米饭和土豆大豆咖喱的免费午餐后，孩子们在半小时内便开始觉得不适。
They were rushed by parents to a nearby government primary health center that was not equipped to handle such a large number of patients. Children were shifted to a district hospital about 32 kilometers, or 20 miles, away and eventually to Patna around midnight. By that time, 20 children were dead. Three died later.
家长迅速把他们送到了附近的初级政府医疗中心，但是这里没有可以处理如此多病人的设施。随后，孩子们被送往离当地约32公里的地区医院，最后在午夜时分抵达巴特那。那时已有20名孩子死亡，后来又有三名学生相继死去。
The school’s headmistress remains missing after absconding with her family, and the police are trying to trace her.
这所学校的校长已经携家人潜逃，警方正在对她进行追踪。
‘‘Her house is locked. Now her interrogation is very crucial to find how the poison got mixed with the food,’’ Abhijit Sinha, the chief civil servant of the Saran district, said by phone Sunday.
“她的房子已经上锁。现在，我们迫切需要对她展开讯问，以查明毒物是如何混入食物的，”萨兰区的行政负责人阿布希吉特·辛哈(Abhijit Sinha)周日在电话采访中说。
The main cook and her two children are also recovering in the hospital. After children complained that the food tasted bad, the cook also ate some of it. A second cook’s two children also died. The second cook did not eat the tainted food, but her two children did, Mr. Sinha said.
主厨和她的两个孩子也在医院接受治疗。当时有孩子抱怨食物的味道很差，厨师便自己尝了尝。另一名厨师的两个孩子也已死亡。辛哈说，这名厨师本人没有吃那些含毒食物，但她的两个孩子吃了。
All the patients in the hospital are out of danger and being kept for observation.
所有住院病人都已脱离危险，目前正在住院观察。
‘‘At times, the aftereffects of poison surface on the third or fifth day because poison gets into the tissue cells,’’ Dr. Amarkant Jha Amar, the medical superintendent of Patna Medical College Hospital, said Sunday, also by phone. ‘‘We hope to release the children and the cook tomorrow or the day after. Now they are healthy and walking and playing among themselves.’’
“有时，毒药的后效要到第三天或第五天才会出现，因为那时毒素才开始进入组织细胞，”巴特那医学院附属医院(Patna Medical College Hospital)院长阿马尔坎特·杰哈·阿马尔(Amarkant Jha Amar)周日在电话采访中说。“我们希望今后两天里就能让厨师和这些孩子出院。现在他们已经恢复健康，还能走路和嬉戏。”