NEW DELHI — Often, after I have finished thrashing through a notebook to find quotations on some episode in the news, I put it on the shelf with a sneaking feeling that a different story is still there in its pages — something harder to put my finger on, but probably more important.
新德里——经常，当我翻遍笔记本，为新闻里的某个事件寻找引语后，我会把它放在书架上，却有一种萦绕不去的感觉，笔记里也许还藏着一个不同的故事，我很难具体说清楚它是什么，可是它也许更重要。
So it is with violence against women in India. This is the theme sucking up all the oxygen this year, as we approach the anniversary of a gang rape on a bus in New Delhi. As a newcomer to India, I covered the death sentences handed down to four defendants in that crime (“Phansi do! Phansi do!” — which translates as “Hang them! Hang them!” — was the first full phrase I learned in Hindi). This week, I pieced together the disparate perspectives on another gang rape, this one in Mumbai.
印度针对女性的暴力事件亦是如此。随着新德里公交车轮奸案周年即将到来，各家媒体不惜倾尽全力报道针对女性的暴力。作为一名来到印度的新人，我报道了那起刑事案中四名被告的死刑判决（“Phansi do！Phansi do!”——翻译过来就是“绞死他们！绞死他们！”——这是我学的第一个完整的印地语词组）。本周，我汇总了对另一起轮奸案截然不同的方方面面，这次的案件发生在孟买。
It is a dark picture, I know.
我知道，这是一幅黑暗的图画。
But often when I return from a reporting trip, my overriding impression is of something completely different. Talking to Indian women on roadsides and in courtyards, in cities and in villages, I am struck by how swiftly they are expanding their freedoms.
然而常常当我从采访归来时，让我印象至深的都是一些截然不同的事情。在城市和乡村，我在路边及院子里和印度女性交谈，往往会惊讶于她们拓展自由空间之迅速。
Conservative village elders may be searching for a way to slow that process — hence sporadic attempts, in some places, to keep blue jeans and mobile phones, those telltale signs of modernity, away from young women. The influence of village elders is diluted, however, when young people move into cities, and that is what much of India is doing. The whole country is changing at once.
保守的村中长者也许还在寻找途径放缓这种进程，于是乎，他们有时会尝试这样的做法：在一些地方，让一些带有明显现代色彩的东西远离年轻女性，这其中有蓝色牛仔裤，也有手机。然而，当年轻人迁入城市后，村中长者的影响力便没有那么大了，而且印度的许多地区都正在经历这种变化。整个国家都在同时发生改变。
“It’s changing so rapidly that it’s not even generational anymore, it’s changing within a generation,” is the way a colleague put it to me in a recent conversation.
一名同事在最近的一次交谈中对我这么说，“变化来得如此之快，以至于变化都不再是一代一代的了，而是开始在一代人中间产生变化。”
We were taking a breath, exhausted by a long conversation about violence and the more prosaic problem of how women can reach home safely after the end of the workday. I had already put away my notebook. But this, of course, was the flip side of the same conversation. New dangers are arising because women are expanding their perimeter.
我们吸一口气，这是因为漫长的谈话让我们筋疲力尽，我们谈论了暴力和更加老生常谈的问题：女性如何能够在下班后安全抵家。我已经把笔记本收了起来。不过，这显然是同一种谈话的另一面。由于女性正在扩展她们的空间，新的危险正在呈现。
Signs of this are everywhere.
这样的迹象遍地都是。
One story, unused, from my notebook: Rajkala Kanwar married into her husband’s family, from the conservative Jat caste in the farming state of Haryana, understanding that she would occupy a subservient position. She, like her mother before her, would spend her youth under the authority of her mother-in-law, who would ensure that the younger woman never left the house without permission or failed to cover her head with the sheer scarf, or purdah, designed to spare older men the “disrespect” of seeing her face.
在我的笔记本里有一个没用过的故事：拉杰卡拉·肯瓦(Rajkala Kanwar)从农业之邦哈里亚纳邦嫁到了夫家，她来自保守的贾特(Jat)种姓，她明白自己在家里将处于一个次等的位置。她和母亲从前经历的一样，将在婆婆的权威下度过自己的青春。后者将确保，这名年轻的女子在没获得许可、或没用轻薄的头巾包头的情况下永远不能离开家门，这种所谓的深闺制度(purdah)是为了避免年长男人“失礼地”看见她的脸。
“We lived in fear,” said Ms. Kanwar, 60, remembering. Her husband, Ram, 70, nodded: “All this cruelty toward women,” he said, “was by women.”
60岁的肯瓦回忆说，“我生活在恐惧中”。她的丈夫、70岁的拉姆(Ram)点头赞同：“女性所受的暴行，源自女性。”
That power dynamic has changed. Ms. Kanwar smiled at the notion that she could maintain such a stranglehold over her sons’ wives — they simply have too much leverage. If she tried to impose the same kind of restrictions, she said, her daughters-in-law would move to the city, taking her sons and grandchildren with them. So Ms. Kanwar, a practical woman, decided to remove purdah as a requirement for her daughters-in-law, and to stop wearing it herself. And, just like that, an old stricture was gone.
这种权力关系已经发生了改变。肯瓦对自己能以同样的方式管束儿媳们的说法一笑了之，她们能用的手段简直太多了。她说，如果她试图把类似的限制强加给儿媳，她们就会搬到城里去，把儿子和孙辈们都带走。所以，作为一名现实的女性，肯瓦决定取消儿媳妇要戴面纱的这个要求，她自己也不戴了。就这样，一项古老的限制消失了。
“It was difficult,” she said. “My mother, my grandmother, they used to do it. My mother-in-law and her mother-in-law, they were doing it.”
她说，“这相当困难。我的母亲、我的祖母都这么做。我的婆婆和我婆婆的婆婆也这么做。”
A generation ago, women in much of rural India spent their lives behind closed doors. Economic changes mean that women are flowing into India’s public spaces, even in small cities and towns.
大约20年前，在印度许多的农村地区，女性终生都大门不出。经济改革意味着女性开始进入印度的公共领域，即使在小市镇也一样。
My colleague Hari Kumar, a reporter in India for 20 years, recalls a time when, outside the large cities, the women one saw outside the home were mostly schoolteachers. But the economic overhauls of the early 1990s set off a major expansion of India’s service sector, jobs like health, communication and education, banking and information technology. As the sector expanded to around 60 percent of India’s gross domestic product from 40 percent, millions of Indian women began earning their own money — and spending it. Girls are routinely outperforming boys at the state board examinations that serve as the gateway to prestigious universities.
我的同事哈利·库马(Hari Kumar)已在印度当了20年的记者，据他回忆，曾经在大城市里，能在家以外看到的女人大多都是学校教师。然而，20世纪90年代初的经济改革导致印度服务业得到了极大的发展，包括了卫生、通信和教育、银行业和信息技术等行业的岗位。随着服务业在印度国内生产总值(gross domestic product)的比重从40%扩大至60%左右，有数以百万计的印度女性开始挣钱，然后消费。女孩在各邦考试中的表现，往往优于男孩，这给她们升入名牌大学打开了通道。
Of course, that information is of limited use to the woman who needs a safe way home at the end of a workday. We live in the short term; it will always command more surface area on the pages of newspapers. But there is a thrill in realizing that, somewhere beyond the fits and starts and backfires that make up our news cycle, there is a great engine that has begun to turn.
当然，对下班后需要一条安全的回家之路的女性而言，这条信息的作用有限。我们活在当下；最新的话题总是在报纸上占据更多的版面。不过，除了这些循环往复的新闻事件之外，某个地方却有一台巨大的引擎，它已经开始启动，这让我们振奋。