MUMBAI, India — The statistical evidence is piling up that India’s economy may be in even worse shape than had been thought.
印度孟买——越来越多的统计数据都表明，印度经济的糟糕程度可能超出了原先的预计。
India’s economy slowed in early summer to its weakest pace since the bottom of the global economic downturn in 2009, government statistics released Friday evening showed.
印度政府周五傍晚公布的数据显示，今年夏初，该国经济增长速度之缓慢，创下2009年全球经济探底以来之最。
The Central Statistics Office in New Delhi said that the economy grew 4.4 percent in the quarter ended June 30, well below economists’ expectations of 4.8 percent. The quarter was the weakest since output grew 3.5 percent in the quarter that ended March 31, 2009.
位于新德里的印度中央统计局(Central Statistics Office)称，在截至6月30日的财季里，该国经济增长了4.4%，远低于经济学家们所预计的4.8%。自从在截至2009年3月31日的财季里创下3.5%的低点以来，这是印度经济最低的季度增长率。
The accumulating signs of economic distress — slower growth, a widening current-account deficit, higher oil prices and rising inflation in general — suggest that the monthlong fall of the Indian rupee in currency markets may be a symptom of fundamental troubles in the Indian economy and not just part of the broader difficulties experienced by Asian emerging market currencies in recent weeks.
经济问题的迹象越积越多——总的来说，经济增长愈发缓慢，经常账户赤字不断扩大，石油价格越来越高，通货膨胀率持续上升——这意味着印度卢比在货币市场上长达一个月的大跌，或许不仅仅是亚洲新兴市场货币所遭遇的普遍困难的一部分，还是印度经济深层问题的一个表征。
Hints that the Federal Reserve in the United States may soon shift to a tighter monetary policy have prompted global investors to shift billions of dollars out of financial markets from São Paulo to Jakarta to Mumbai, eroding the value of local currencies in developing economies. But the Indian rupee has fallen the fastest of any emerging market currency in the last month, down 8.1 percent. Broader investor disenchantment with emerging markets has been compounded here by worries about India’s economy, the third-largest in Asia after China’s and Japan’s.
有迹象表明，可能在不久之后，美联储就要转而实施从紧的货币政策，这已经促使全球投资者从圣保罗、雅加达、孟买等地的金融市场上转移出了数以十亿美元计的资金，造成了发展中国家本国货币的贬值。但印度卢比上个月跌了8.1%，其贬值速度在所有新兴市场货币中居于首位。投资者对新兴市场普遍感到失望，同时对排在中国和日本之后的亚洲第三大经济体印度的状况感到担忧，两者在这里发生了化合作用。
Manufacturing and mining have been hit the hardest. A court-ordered halt to most iron ore mining across India for environmental reasons has hurt steel and other sectors; state governments have been raising taxes on the sector, and broader demand has begun to falter.
制造业和采矿业受到的冲击最为严重。由于环境方面的原因，印度法庭勒令停止该国境内大部分铁矿石的开采，这种做法已经损害了钢铁及其他行业的发展；各个邦政府还给这一行业加税，而相关需求也广泛出现疲态。
“The fact is, yes, the manufacturing sector has slowed down,” said Raj K. Singh, the chairman and managing director of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation, an oil refining and marketing company that is two-thirds owned by the Indian government and is one of the country’s largest businesses.
“事实上，制造业的增长的确已经放缓，”巴拉特石油公司(Bharat Petroleum Corporation)董事长兼董事总经理拉吉·K·辛格(Raj K. Singh)表示。这家石油炼制与营销公司是印度最大的企业之一，印度政府拥有其三分之二的股份。
India enjoyed annual growth of 8 to 9 percent in the years leading up to the global financial crisis but has struggled to reach 6 percent since then, despite heavy government spending and large fiscal and trade deficits.
印度经济的年增长率在全球金融危机爆发前的那些年高达8%至9%，但在危机爆发后一直没能超过6%——尽管政府支出数额庞大，并存在大规模的财政赤字和贸易逆差。
From corner stores to corporate boardrooms, the consensus in Mumbai these days is that stagnation may continue over the next few months, although almost no one expects a steep downturn.
虽说几乎没有人预计印度经济会在未来数月里急剧下滑，但从街角的商店到各大公司董事会的会议室，孟买人达成的共识是：经济不景气的情况在此期间可能还将持续下去。
Sitting in his office on Friday morning in front of an abstract Indian painting in blues and yellows, Mr. Singh voiced concern about a 7.2 percent drop in nationwide diesel consumption during the first three weeks of August from a year ago. Nationwide diesel consumption was also down 5.9 percent in July from a year ago.
8月的前三周，全国柴油消费与去年同期相比下降了7.2%。周五早上，在办公室一幅蓝黄双色的印度抽象画前面端坐的辛格对此表示了担忧。7月的全国柴油消费与一年前相比则下降了5.9%。
But heavy monsoon rains have limited the need for diesel in irrigation pumps, making the comparison less clear, Mr. Singh cautioned.
不过，倾盆而下的季风雨限制了灌溉用泵对柴油的需求——这让对比变得更加困难，辛格补充道。
Plentiful monsoon rains, a key indicator for the Indian economy for thousands of years, have produced lush fields that could yet help stabilize broader measures of the economy in the coming months and forestall a steeper slowdown. While World Bank data show that value added in agriculture is only one-sixth of the economy these days, a good harvest could still play an outsize role in limiting recent increases in food prices.
丰沛的季风雨——上千年来，它对印度经济而言一直是一个关键指标——已经让大地变得郁郁葱葱，这在未来数月里有助于令更为宽泛的经济指标企稳，防止出现更严重的经济滑坡。虽然世界银行的数据显示，农业增加值近年来仅占印度经济总量的六分之一，但好收成仍然可以在遏制近期的食品价格上涨方面起到极为重要的作用。
Inflation will probably remain a problem, however, given that India relies almost entirely on imported oil, which becomes more expensive with each drop of the rupee.
不过，印度石油消费几乎完全依赖进口，卢比每贬值一次，都会让进口石油变得愈发昂贵，有鉴于此，通货膨胀可能依然会是一个问题。
“Prices are rising for everything — petrol is more expensive, vegetables are more expensive,” said Bharat Hirji Gada, a local shopkeeper.
“所有东西都在涨价——汽油更昂贵了，蔬菜更昂贵了，”当地一家商店的店主巴拉特·希尔吉·嘎达(Bharat Hirji Gada)说。
India has some advantages compared with European and other Asian countries that have experienced steep economic downturns following currency declines over the last two decades. The biggest advantage may be that the Indian government has long prohibited borrowing in foreign currencies by poor or middle-class households and by small and medium-size businesses.
印度与欧洲及亚洲其他国家相比具有某些优势，过去20年里，这些国家在本国货币贬值后都会遭遇经济的急剧滑坡。印度最大的优势可能在于，该国政府长期限制贫困或中产家庭，以及小规模和中等规模企业借入外币债务。
Foreign debt has been concentrated among blue-chip companies and wealthy individuals. Many of these loans are to borrowers whose revenue is largely denominated in dollars, limiting their currency exposure, said Haseeb A. Drabu, the chief economist for the Essar Group, one of India’s heavy industry giants.
外债都集中在蓝筹公司和富人那里。许多贷款的债务人，收入主要以美元计算，他们所面临的货币风险是有限的，爱萨集团(Essar Group)首席经济学家哈西卜·A·德拉布(Haseeb A. Drabu)说。爱萨集团是印度的重工业巨头之一。
“The bulk of it would be hedged,” he said.
“大多数货币风险都会被对冲掉，”他说。