MUMBAI, India — In the wake of global scandals involving kickbacks and accounting fraud, one unlikely country, India, is aiming to set a tone in overhauling its corporate oversight laws.
印度孟买——一波涉及回扣和会计舞弊的丑闻在全球范围内爆发之后，印度出人意料地行动起来，希望为该国企业监管法律的重大修改设定基调。
This month, the nation’s upper house of Parliament passed the Companies Bill, 2012, sweeping legislation meant to overhaul auditing, impose stiffer penalties for fraud and create more government oversight of businesses.
本月，印度议会上院通过了2012年《公司法案》(Companies Bill)，这项涵盖范围广泛的立法旨在对审计方式进行重大修改，对欺诈处以更加严厉的惩罚，并加强政府对企业的监管。
The lower house passed the bill last year. Once India’s president, Pranab Mukherjee, signs it into law, it will replace India’s 57-year-old corporate legislation, which critics say failed to keep up with changes in business practices.
议会下院去年通过了这项法案。待到印度总统普拉纳布·慕克吉(Pranab Mukherjee)签署使之成为法律之后，它就会取代已有57年历史的现有公司法。一些人批评现有法律跟不上商业操作的变化。
India, a nation notoriously rife with graft and bribery, was partly motivated to pass the legislation in the wake of an accounting scandal that has been called India’s Enron. In 2009, B. Ramalinga Raju, the chairman of a prominent outsourcing company, Satyam Computer Services, confessed to overstating company assets and earnings by more than $1 billion, and then resigned. That one company could defraud shareholders of such a large sum despite regular audits made painfully obvious the need for greater oversight in corporate India.
众所周知，印度是一个贪污和贿赂猖獗的国家，被称为“印度安然”(India’s Enron)的会计舞弊曝光，是推动这项立法获得通过的因素之一。2009年，知名的外包公司Satyam计算机服务公司(Satyam Computer Services)董事长B·拉马林加·拉贾(B. Ramalinga Raju)承认夸大了公司资产和盈利，幅度超过10亿美元（约合61亿元人民币），之后他辞了职。但是，一家公司可以在定期接受审计的情况下，骗取股东如此巨额的资金， 这一事实无疑表明，印度企业需要更有力的监督。
But four years after that startling case, little change in corporate laws had taken place until now.
但是，在这件令人惊讶的案件发生四年后，直到此项立法之前，公司法并没有多少改变。
The new legislation will affect all companies doing business in India, regardless of their size, structure or ownership, including the estimated 8,000 corporations listed on three national stock exchanges.
所有在印度经营业务的企业都将受到新法的影响，无论其规模、结构或所有权如何，其中也包括在三所印度证券交易所上市的大约8000家公司。
Yet while hopes remain high that the bill will appeal to foreign investors and kick-start India’s economic growth, nearly a decade of revisions has watered down the measure. Much of the bill depends on new committees and rules that have yet to be drafted, so legal experts have doubts about its ability to police corporations.
然而，尽管人们对这一法案寄予厚望，希望它可以吸引外国投资者，促进印度经济增长，但将近10年的修订过程已经削弱了它的效力。从很大程度上，该法案将最终取决于新委员会以及尚待起草的一些规则，所以法律专家对它监管公司的能力心存怀疑。
“It started off trying to make things easier for corporates, but somewhere along the line, it became more about corporate governance and transparency,” said Nilanjana Singh, a partner at the Mumbai office of AZB & Partners, one of India’s leading corporate law firms.
“它的初衷是为企业提供便利，但是在修订的过程中，它变得更加强调公司治理和透明度。”印度知名企业法律事务所AZB及合伙人(AZB & Partners)孟买办公室的一名合伙人尼兰佳纳·辛格(Nilanjana Singh)说。
Legislators were further motivated to pass meaningful changes after Reebok India accused two former executives last year of embezzling 8.7 billion rupees, or $157 million. Reebok’s parent brand, Adidas, discovered during an audit that its former India managing director and chief operating officer amassed their fortune through years of falsifying sales receipts, faked storage facilities and circular trading.
锐步印度公司(Reebok India)去年控告两名前高管挪用87亿印度卢比（约合8.6亿元人民币）的事件，进一步促使了立法者投票通过有意义的变革。锐步的母公司阿迪达斯(Adidas)在一次审计中发现，其印度前董事总经理和首席营运官多年来通过伪造销售单据，子虚乌有的存储设施，以及循环交易的方式中饱私囊。
Businesses say such problems are rife in corporate India. In a 2012 report by the global consulting firm KPMG, more than half of respondents reported that their companies had experienced fraud or theft in the last two years. Most of the respondents considered fraud an inevitable cost of doing business in this country.
商界人士说，这样的问题在印度企业界屡见不鲜。全球咨询公司毕马威(KPMG)在2012年的一份报告中指出，超过半数的受访者表示，他们的公司在过去两年中遭遇过诈骗或盗窃。大多数的受访者认为，要在印度做生意，欺诈是一项不可避免的成本。
Putting the new legislation in place will take some time, but some accounting officials are hopeful that real progress could be made in reforming India’s arcane systems. Nitin Kini, a partner at KPMG in India, said he believed that the bill could only help, given India’s recent economic woes.
新的立法实施还需要一段时间，但一些会计官员有信心，印度在改革模糊不清的体制时，可以真正取得一些进展。毕马威在印度的一名合伙人尼廷·基尼(Nitin Kini)认为，从印度最近的经济危机来看，该法案有百利而无一弊。
“Do we live with the current act and be happy with it, or do we look at this draft of the bill?” he asked. “Between the two, the new bill is good. It is a step in the right direction.”
“我们是要忍受现状，得过且过呢，还是要考虑一下这个法案？”他问道。“两者相比，当然是新法案好。它是朝着正确方向迈出的一步。”
The Companies Bill sets tough sanctions for embezzlement, including mandatory jail time and hefty fines for offenders. To prevent additional cases like Satyam — where Indian auditors failed to notice discrepancies despite auditing the company for years — the measure calls for the mandatory rotation of auditors and their firms.
对于盗用行为，《公司法案》规定了严厉的处罚措施，比如入狱监禁和巨额罚款。为了防止Satyam那样的情况（印度审计师虽然审计该公司很多年，但却没有发现任何账目出入）再次出现，该法案要求对审计师和审计公司进行强制轮换。
One of the most controversial clauses asks larger enterprises — like those with net profits of at least 50 million rupees, or $815,000 — to donate 2 percent of their net profits to corporate social responsibility programs.
该法案争议最大的条款之一，是要求大型企业——比如净利润至少在5000万卢比的企业——捐出2％的净利润，用以开展企业社会责任项目。
Bharat Vasani, chief legal and group general counsel for Tata Sons Limited, the holding company behind India’s multibillion-dollar conglomerate the Tata Group, said the bill fails to adequately address corporate insolvency. He said that ailing Indian companies desperately need protections like the Chapter 11 bankruptcy rules in the United States.
塔塔子孙有限公司(Tata Sons Limited)首席法律顾问兼集团总顾问巴拉特·范斯瓦尼(Bharat Vasani)表示，该法案未能恰当处理企业资不抵债的问题。他说，处于困境中的印度公司迫切需要类似于《美国破产法》第11章破产规定给予的保护。塔塔子孙公司是塔塔集团（Tata Group，一个数十亿美元级的印度企业集团）背后的控股公司。
So far, investors in Indian stocks have greeted the passage of the bill with little enthusiasm. The S.&P. B.S.E. Sensex 500-stock index is down 7.55 percent this year, and little has changed since the passage of the bill this month.
到目前为止，印度股市投资者对该法案的通过反应平淡。今年以来，印度S&P BSE Sensex 500种股票指数下跌了7.55％，该法案本月通过之后，股市走势几乎没有变化。
But in time, it may pave the way for greater governance, Mr. Kini, the KPMG partner, said. Other provisions prevent the government from interfering in daily business decisions, he said.
但是假以时日，它可能会为更好的公司治理铺平道路，毕马威合伙人基尼说。法案中还有一些条款旨在防止政府干预公司的日常业务决策，他说。
“So in that sense, it simplifies how an organization can govern itself, but also puts enough scope for oversight,” he said. “But it will take time.”
“所以从这个意义上说，它简化了公司治理自己的方式，同时也规定了足够大的监管范围，”他说，“但是，这需要时间。”