JAKARTA, Indonesia — The former special forces commander Prabowo Subianto kicked off his party’s campaign for legislative elections with a rally last weekend that the local news media characterized as “military-style.” He rode into a Jakarta stadium in a jeep to greet the party faithful, mounted a horse to circle the grounds and paraded before uniformed party cadres standing at attention.
印度尼西亚雅加达——上周末，前特种部队司令普拉博沃·苏比亚恩托(Prabowo Subianto)用一场公众集会展开了他所属政党的议会选举竞选活动，当地媒体形容这场集会具有“军事风格”。他当天乘吉普车进入了雅加达的一座体育场，随后向其党派的忠实追随者致意，又骑马绕场检阅了身着制服的党内干部。
Despite widespread allegations that he took part in some of Indonesia’s worst human rights abuses during his time as a military officer, Mr. Prabowo — who has announced his candidacy for president — is not playing down his military credentials in a country that many see as craving a strong leader.
普拉博沃在军队任职期间，印尼发生了一些惨绝人寰的侵犯人权事件，多方指控他曾参与其中。但尽管这样，已经宣布竞选总统的普拉博沃并没有在竞选中淡化他的军人经历。很多人认为，现今的印尼渴望一个有力的领导人。
But Mr. Prabowo’s candidacy has raised deep concerns among rights activists in Indonesia and abroad. They note that the country’s human rights commission recommended that he be prosecuted in the alleged abductions of pro-democracy activists in the late 1990s, during the final months of the military-backed government of President Suharto, his father-in-law at the time.
但普拉博沃的参选，在印尼国内外的维权人士中，都引起了强烈的担忧。他们提到上世纪90年代后期，他曾涉嫌对民主派人士实施绑架，印尼官方的人权委员会曾因此建议对他提起公诉。事件发生在军方支持的苏哈托(Suharto)政府倒台前的最后几个月，苏哈托总统当时为他的岳父。
Mr. Prabowo’s attempt to become the country’s second democratically elected president has also put the Obama administration in a difficult position.
普拉博沃试图成为印尼第二个民主选举产生的总统，这也将奥巴马政府推到了一个艰难的境地。
Mr. Prabowo, who graduated from American military training programs in the 1980s and is an admirer of the United States, has for years made it clear that he would like to meet with high-level American officials. So far, the United States has demurred.
普拉博沃80年代从美国的军事训练项目毕业，作为美国的仰慕者，他多年来一直明确表示希望和美国高级别官员会晤。但到目前为止，美国对此始终持反对态度。
“The sensitivity comes from the extremely close association between the U.S. and Indonesian militaries during the atrocities the Indonesian military committed,” said Jeffrey Winters, a professor of political science at Northwestern University, adding that the administration appears to be banking on Mr. Prabowo’s losing or on patching up any bruised feelings if he wins.
“敏感性在于印尼军队实施暴行期间，美国和印尼军方有过极其紧密的联系，”美国西北大学(Northwestern University)政治学教授杰弗里·温特斯(Jeffrey Winters)说。他补充说，美国政府似乎在盼望着他落选，而一旦他当选，就需要赶忙修补之前的不愉快。
“Indonesia is far too strategically important to the U.S. to have frosty relations between the countries,” Mr. Winters said. It not only has strong economic and security ties to the United States, it also has the world’s largest Muslim population.
“印尼的战略意义过于重大，以至于美国不可能让两国关系冷淡下来，”温特斯说。美国和印尼之间不仅有着紧密的经济和安全联系，更重要的是印尼有着全世界最多的穆斯林人口。
For the moment, Mr. Prabowo, of the Great Indonesia Movement Party, has been polling behind Joko Widodo, the popular governor of Jakarta who has made his name as a squeaky-clean leader who tackles popular issues like education and Jakarta’s chronic traffic. But the presidential election is still months away — in July, after next month’s legislative election — and the charismatic Mr. Prabowo, 62, has many ardent supporters at the grass-roots level, as well as among powerful businessmen and retired military commanders.
目前为止，大印尼运动党(Great Indonesia Movement Party)的普拉博沃落后于倍受欢迎的雅加达市长佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)。佐科被认为是无可挑剔的领导人，正在着手解决很受关注的问题，如教育和拥挤不堪的雅加达交通。但总统选举还有数月之遥，要到7月才举行，总统选举之前下个月还会举行立法机构选举。现年62岁的普拉博沃有他的魅力所在，他在草根阶层有许多热情的支持者，在有权势的商人和退伍军官中也很受欢迎。
Allegations against Mr. Prabowo extend back to his early career, when he was a young officer in the 1980s in East Timor, where an armed movement was fighting Indonesian occupation. Some human rights groups called for an investigation over allegations that he ordered the massacre of nearly 300 civilians. Mr. Prabowo has vehemently denied being on the scene of the massacre or having any involvement in it.
对于普拉博沃的指控要追溯到他军旅生涯的初期，在80年代他是驻扎在东帝汶的年轻军官，当时东帝汶发生了反抗印尼占领的武装运动。一些人权组织要求，对他下令屠杀将近300名平民的指控展开调查，而普拉博沃则极力否认他曾在屠杀现场，还声称完全没有参与其中。
Later accusations center on his time as one of Indonesia’s most powerful military men under Mr. Suharto. Human rights groups say Mr. Prabowo, then a three-star general, was responsible for the abduction and torture of 23 pro-democracy activists in 1997 and 1998, and for orchestrating riots in May 1998 — just days before Mr. Suharto resigned as president — that resulted in more than 1,000 deaths and the rapes of at least 168 women.
之后的指控则涉及他在苏哈托总统在任期间，作为权力最大的军方人物的所作所为。人权组织认为，彼时担任中将的普拉博沃，需要对23位民主派人士在1997年与1998年遭到的绑架和折磨负责。同时，他们还指控普拉博沃策划了1998年5月发生的暴乱，事件发生在苏哈托辞去总统职位仅仅几天前，暴乱导致超过1000人死亡，至少168名妇女被强暴。
A government-appointed fact-finding team established by Mr. Suharto’s successor reported that Mr. Prabowo had met in his office with military, government and political figures during the riots. That stoked speculation that they had plotted to use the crisis as a way for Mr. Prabowo to take over the crumbling government in a coup. Mr. Prabowo denies any such plot and, in a recent interview, said he could have “taken over if I wanted to.”
苏哈托的继任者组建了一个由政府任命的真相调查组。调查组报告，在暴乱期间，普拉博沃曾在其办公室会见过军方、政府，以及政界相关人士。这一情节使人们开始揣测，他们是在谋划利用这次危机，发动政变接管摇摇欲坠的政府。而普拉博沃否认了任何阴谋的存在，还在近期的一次访问中说，他“想夺权的话早就夺了”。
A member of the fact-finding team, Marzuki Darusman, said, “To be fair, it’s all circumstantial, and it’s still unresolved.”
作为真相调查组的一员，马祖基·达鲁斯曼(Marzuki Darusman)说，“公平地来说，这些都是间接的推测，至今都不能下定论。”
In 2006, the National Commission on Human Rights released a report saying 11 people, including Mr. Prabowo, should be prosecuted in the activists’ abductions. The attorney general’s office, which has shied away from most investigations of Suharto-era abuses, declined that request.
在2006年，印尼国家人权委员会(National Commission on Human Rights)公布了一份报告，称应对包括普拉博沃在内的11人涉嫌绑架民主人士一事提起公诉。而总检察院拒绝了这个请求，他们回避了大多数苏哈托在任期间有关滥用职权的调查请求。
The abductions case did end Mr. Prabowo’s military career. He was discharged in August 1998 for “exceeding orders” by arresting the activists, some of whom, according to Mr. Prabowo, had bomb-making equipment. While he accepted responsibility as a senior officer for the torture of nine of the activists, he has said he did not order it and has denied any knowledge about the disappearances of the other 14.
但绑架事件的确终结了普拉博沃的军旅生涯。他在1998年8月因“越权”逮捕民主人士而退伍。但据普拉博沃所说，那些人当中有人持有制造炸弹的设备。虽然他承认作为高级军官对虐待9位民主人士负有责任，但是普拉博沃还是坚称没有下达过相关命令，而且否认对其他14人的消失知情。
“The main thing about Prabowo is, he’s never been investigated, let alone prosecuted, for the long list of things he’s been linked to,” said Matthew Easton, a former program director for Human Rights First, an organization based in the United States. “His actual command responsibility needs to be investigated.”
“有关普拉博沃最主要的一点是，他从未被调查过，更别说被起诉了，尽管他有嫌疑的事情可以列出一个长长的清单，”美国的人权第一组织(Human Rights First)前项目主管马修· 伊斯顿(Matthew Easton)说。“他实际的指挥责任需要被调查。”
Mr. Prabowo argues that he has been made a scapegoat for the abuses committed by the military during Mr. Suharto’s 32 years in power.
普拉博沃辩称，他成为了苏哈托当权的32年中，军方所有滥用权力事件的替罪羊。
“I’ve never been indicted for anything; it’s always innuendos, always allegations,” he said, speaking fluent English in the recent interview. “My critics always say I am a threat to democracy, blah, blah, blah. I believe in democracy and in human rights.”
“我从未因为任何事被起诉，一直都只是捕风捉影，一直都只是指控，”他在近期的一次采访中用流利的英语说。“我的批评者们总说我是民主的威胁，说个没完。其实我信仰民主和人权。”
The United States — which had worried about Indonesia’s stability amid American fears of Communist takeovers in Southeast Asia — had supported Mr. Suharto, but appeared to begin to distance itself from him and figures like Mr. Prabowo after Mr. Suharto lost power.
美国曾担忧共产党在东南亚夺取权力，进而影响印度尼西亚的稳定，曾一度支持过苏哈托。但在苏哈托失去权力后，似乎开始有意地疏远他以及普拉博沃一类的人物。