JAKARTA, Indonesia — Each day, Joko Widodo, the governor of Jakarta, does something practically unheard-of among Indonesia’s political elite: he ventures into the streets to speak with the people who elected him.
印度尼西亚雅加达——每一天，雅加达市长佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)都会做些人们几乎从未听说印度尼西亚政治权贵干过的事情：他走上街头，与推选自己的民众交谈。
Most times, he is mobbed as he wanders through slums, traditional markets and other neighborhoods. Women, and men, try to touch him. Younger people grab his hands and lay them on their foreheads — a sign of respect. Many share their concerns over how their city is working (or not), a practice he encourages.
多数时候，他走过贫民窟和传统集市等街区的时候都被人群簇拥着。无论男女，都努力想要摸摸他。年轻人抓住他的双手，放到自己的额头上，以示尊敬。许多人和他分享自己对于城市运转（或运转不利）的关切，他也对此予以鼓励。
The people, he jokes, are not so much excited to see him; they are merely “shocked to see an Indonesian leader out of their office.”
他开玩笑说，人们看到他并不很兴奋；他们只是“因为看到一位印度尼西亚领导人走出办公室而感到震惊”。
“The people say it’s ‘street democracy’ because I go out to them,” said Mr. Joko, 52, whose supporters affectionately call him by his nickname, Jokowi. “I explain my programs. They can also give me ideas about programs.” He also drops in on local government and tax offices to let the city’s notoriously inefficient bureaucrats know he is watching.
“人们说这是‘街头民主’，因为我走出去，来到了他们身边，”现年52岁的佐科这样说道。他的支持者亲切地以昵称佐科威(Jokowi)来称呼他。“我向他们解释我的计划，他们也可以给我出主意。”他还不时到访当地政府和税收部门的办公室，让雅加达出了名地效率低下的官僚们知道，他在密切注视着呢。
That daily routine is one of the main reasons Mr. Joko, a reed-thin former furniture dealer, has almost overnight shot to the top of the polls about possible candidates for next year’s presidential election. In late August, the country’s most influential daily newspaper, Kompas, displayed his photo on its front page three days in a row along with poll results showing him with nearly double the support of the closest challenger, a retired Army general. The poll also found he had swept past the leader of his own party: former President Megawati Sukarnoputri, a famously imperious leader who sometimes referred to her supporters as “little people.”
身材精瘦的佐科以前做家具生意。他能够几乎一夜之间在明年总统竞选热门候选人的民意调查排行中蹿升至首位，这样的日常活动是一个重要原因。8月底，印尼影响力最大的日报《罗盘报》(Kompas)连续三天在首页刊登了他的照片，佐以民调结果：他的支持率近乎两倍于排名第二的竞争者、一位陆军退役将领。民调结果同时显示，他也远超自己党派的领导人、前总统梅加瓦蒂·苏加诺普特丽(Megawati Sukarnoputri)。梅加瓦蒂出了名地行事专横，有时会把自己的支持者称为“小小的民众”。
“He’s the opposite of the leaders we have now. He doesn’t fit the mold at all,” said Bhimanto Suwastoyo, chief editor of the online Jakarta Globe. “The mold is: an Indonesian official does what he wants, has no connection with the people and doesn’t consult — he rules. Jokowi is doing the exact opposite. He’s hands on, he asks the public what they want, he approaches them and he’s seen as actually doing something.”
“他与我们现在的领导人正好相反。他完全不合常规，”《雅加达环球报》(Jakarta Globe)网络版主编布希曼陀·苏瓦斯托佑(Bhimanto Suwastoyo)称。“常规情况是：印尼的官员为所欲为，与民众完全脱节，也不会咨询意见——他只会统治。佐科威的做法正相反。他凡事亲力亲为，询问公众需要什么，接近民众。人们也认为他确实在做事。”
What Mr. Joko has accomplished in his first year leading the capital is not high-profile. In fact, people give him at least as much credit for what he appears not to have done. In a country rife with corruption, Mr. Joko is widely considered a clean politician who has not used his office to enrich himself, and who is working hard to cut down on corruption within the government.
领导首都的第一年里，佐科并非成就卓然。实际上，对那些他看来没有做的事情，人们至少给予了同样的肯定。在这个腐败猖獗的国家，佐科被广泛认为是一名廉洁的政治人物，并没有利用职务之便中饱私囊，而且他还在努力减少政府内的腐败现象。
The issue of official corruption is expected to be a major factor in the election, the third direct presidential election since the country threw off autocratic rule 15 years ago.
官员腐败的问题有望成为选举中的一个主要考量因素。此次大选也是印尼15年前推翻专制统治以来的第三次总统直选。
The economy has been doing well — it survived the world’s 2008 financial crisis virtually untouched, multinationals have been flocking here and its gross domestic product has expanded at a steady rate of more than 6 percent for the last three years. Still, analysts consistently say Indonesia is being held back from reaching its full potential because of corruption and collusion among government officials, lawmakers and powerful business interests.
印尼经济一直表现不错。它几乎毫发无损地挺过了2008年的全球金融危机，跨国公司蜂拥而至，国内生产总值在过去三年里以超过6%的年增长率稳步抬升。但分析人士一再重申，腐败，加上行政官员、议员与强大的商业利益集团之间相互勾结，制约了印尼充分发挥其潜力。
The current president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, swept into power in 2004 and was re-elected in 2009 on an anticorruption platform, but his governing Democratic Party has been mired in corruption scandals the past two years.
现任总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)2004年轻松赢得大选，并于2009年凭借倡导反腐败的政治纲领获得连任。但他领导的执政党民主党(Democratic Party)在过去两年间深陷各种腐败丑闻。
With months to go before the election, anything can happen to derail Mr. Joko’s chances. The retired general who ran second in the Kompas poll, Prabowo Subianto, has a strong following among the poor and has been considered a top contender for the presidency, despite widespread allegations of human rights abuses in East Timor. (Mr. Prabowo and Mr. Joko are members of opposition parties; Mr. Yudhoyono cannot run again because of term limits.)
距选举还有几个月的时间，任何事都有可能发生，从而损害佐科的机会。在《罗盘报》进行的民调中，排名第二的退役将领普拉博沃·苏比亚恩托(Prabowo Subianto)在贫困人群中也有大批追随者，被认为是总统选举的最有力竞争者，尽管民间盛传他在东帝汶有侵犯人权的记录。（普拉博沃和佐科都是反对党成员；由于任期限制，尤多约诺不能再次参选。）
Since becoming governor last October, Mr. Joko has followed through on his campaign promises, including issuing welfare payments on the equivalent of electronic gift cards that allow people to pay for health care and education supplies directly and ensure government officials do not take a cut off the top. He also instituted an online tax payment system to prevent graft and jump-started long-delayed plans for a mass rapid transit system for the capital.
去年10月成为市长之后，佐科不断兑现竞选诺言，包括以等额电子礼品卡的形式发放福利金，使得人们能够直接支付医疗保险和教学用品，并确保政府官员不会从中克扣。他同时建立起网上缴税系统，以防贪污税款，并在雅加达迅速启动了拖延已久的大众捷运系统。
He has invested the most effort and political capital on two projects in particular. The first was to move street vendors off the roads surrounding Tanah Abang, the largest textiles market in Southeast Asia, who were causing traffic jams throughout Central Jakarta, and give them space inside a nearby building. The second is the relocation of 7,000 poor families squatting around the Pluit Reservoir in North Jakarta into lost-cost public housing so the reservoir can be dredged for the first time in 30 years to help alleviate annual flooding.
他把大部分的精力和政治资本特别投入了两个项目：第一，东南亚最大的纺织品市场丹纳阿邦(Tanah Abang)周边道路上的商贩造成了整个中雅加达的交通阻塞，他把商贩们迁走，并在附近的楼里为他们提供了经营空间。第二，把7000户贫困家庭从北雅加达珊瑚村水库(Pluit Reservoir)附近密集的蜗居里迁出，安置到了公共廉租房。于是，30年以来，水库首次能够进行疏浚，以缓解每年的洪涝。
These projects might seem obscure given the many pressing problems of a city of 10 million people, but they address the two most important ones for average people: traffic and flooding. To win community support, Mr. Joko visits both areas at least once daily to make sure that city officials are following through on the projects and to assure local residents that he is not really planning to turn the land over to shopping mall developers.
和一个拥有1千万人口的城市所面对的许多紧迫问题相比，这些项目也许看起来无足轻重，但这为普通人解决了两个最重要的问题：交通和洪涝。为赢得社区的支持，佐科每天对这两个地区至少各拜访一次，以确保城市官员将项目进行到底，并让当地居民放心，他并没有计划把土地转让给购物中心开发商。
Mr. Joko’s “man of the people” tag is not concocted, analysts say. He is a former carpenter and ran a small furniture export business near Surakarta, a city of 520,000 people also known as Solo, before running for city mayor in 2005.
分析人士称，佐科的“人民的自己人”这一标签并不是凭空捏造出来的。他曾是个木匠，在苏拉卡尔塔附近经营一个家具出口的小生意。这个城市有52万人口，也被称为梭罗。他在2005年竞选了该市市长一职。
In 2012 he ran for governor in Jakarta, and his landslide win against the incumbent, Fauzi Bowo, who was backed by most of Mr. Yudhoyono’s governing coalition, was viewed as an emphatic rejection of the political establishment.
2012年他竞选雅加达市长，并以绝对优势战胜了时任市长的法乌兹·波沃(Fauzi Bowo)，后者此前拥有尤多约诺执政联盟多数成员的支持。他的胜利被视为是对固有政治格局的强力挑战。
Mr. Joko ultimately will not decide whether he will run in the presidential election. Mrs. Megawati firmly controls the party, which decided at a recent congress that she alone would name its presidential nominee. She had been expected to run herself, but analysts say it is increasingly likely she will step aside for Mr. Joko to help her party try to regain the presidency after 10 years.
最终，佐科是否参加总统大选并不由他自己决定。梅加瓦蒂紧紧把持着该党。近期的党内会议作出决定，由她一人指定党内总统候选人。人们曾预计，她会亲自参选，但分析人士认为，越来越大的可能性是，她将退居二线，让佐科帮助她领导的党派在10年之后再次赢回总统职位 。
Party officials say Mrs. Megawati has hinted in recent weeks as much in recent weeks, calling herself at 66 “old” and “a grandmother.” Mrs. Megawati and Mr. Joko have also appeared side by side at party events in recent weeks, prompting even more speculation about his candidacy.
党内官员表示，梅加瓦蒂夫人在近几周一再暗示，称66岁的自己为“老人”和“祖母”。梅加瓦蒂和佐科在最近几周还并肩出现在党派活动上，更是让人对他的候选人身份，揣测纷纷。