AGIRIPALLI, India —In this belt of villages near the fertile Krishna River delta, much is as it has been for generations: The cotton soil is as black, the mango trees as heavy with fruit, the tobacco fields as fragrant and deeply green as ever.
印度阿吉瑞帕里——在肥沃的克里希纳河三角洲附近的那片村落里，几乎世世代代没什么变化：热带黑土地仍旧那么黑，芒果树仍旧果实累累，烟草田一如既往地芳香扑鼻、郁郁葱葱。
But there have been curious changes in recent months. An old temple has received an expensive renovation, complete with a new banquet hall, courtesy of community donors. Some plots once tilled by small farmers lie untended, nothing more than overgrown grazing fields for cattle. Locals say “For Sale” signs have been replaced by “No Sale” signs as farmers try to fend off a rush of buyers who seem to have appeared overnight.
但最近几个月出现了奇特的变化。社区里的捐赠者出资大力整修旧庙，并在庙中建造了一座新的宴会厅。小农户曾经耕种的一些土地如今已经无人看管，杂草丛生，成了放牧的地方。当地人称，农民们试图阻挡那些似乎一夜之间涌现的买主，“出售”的标牌也已经换成了“概不出售”。
As for who the buyers are, theories abound. At markets and at stalls, people rattle off the names of politicians who reportedly visit late at night to survey a property undetected. They wonder if the recently retired cricket hero Sachin Tendulkar really bought 100 acres in a nearby town, as the newspapers say.
至于那些买主是谁，各种说法都有。在市场和摊位上，人们不断提到了一些政治人物的名字，据称，这些政治人物深夜到访，秘密查看地产。他们在猜想，最近退役的板球明星萨辛·坦都卡(Sachin Tendulkar)是否真的像报纸上说的那样，在附近的城镇购买了100英亩（约合40公顷）土地。
At first glance, these mango groves in the middle of nowhere seem an unlikely spot for a speculation boom. But in June, after years of impassioned debate, India split Andhra Pradesh, a large state in southern India, in two, creating India’s 29th state, Telangana. The new state will keep the ancient city of Hyderabad as its capital, so what is now Andhra Pradesh will eventually need a new capital, and these tiny villages could end up on the outskirts of what might be a sprawling new city.
乍一看，茫茫荒芜中的这些芒果树丛似乎不太可能是引发投机热潮的地方。但今年6月，在经过数年的激烈辩论后，印度将南部面积较大的安得拉邦一分为二，成立了印度第29个邦——泰伦加纳邦(Telangana)。这个新邦将保留海德拉巴作为首府，如今的安得拉邦需要一个新首府，这些村庄可能最终会变成一个规模庞大的新城的郊区。
In India, the politically connected seem to have a knack for buying land at just the right moment. Privy to government decisions about zoning or development, they are often accused of acquiring land near a planned development or using clout to get land rezoned, ending up with a windfall.
在印度，有政治背景的人似乎有种诀窍，总是能在适当的时候购买土地。他们了解政府涉及规划和开发的决定，人们经常指责他们在计划开发的地点附近购买土地，或是利用政治影响力，调整土地规划，最终获得一笔横财。
In Andhra Pradesh, the location of the new capital has become an opportunity, especially in and around the roughly 25-mile stretch between two towns: the trading town of Vijayawada and the tobacco fields near Guntur, each strongholds of politically connected castes.
在安得拉邦，新首府的选址成了一个机会，尤其是对两个城市之间大约25英里（约合40公里）长的地带及周边地区来说：贸易发达的维杰亚瓦达(Vijayawada)和附近有烟草田地的贡土尔(Guntur)，这两个城市都是有政治背景的种姓的大本营。
Agiripalli and the villages surrounding it have the advantage of being just outside Vijayawada, where land holdings are dominated by the caste to which the business-friendly chief minister Chandrababu Naidu belongs. Mr. Naidu — who has earned global fame through pro-market policies, which are credited with building Hyderabad into the information technology metropolis it is today — has hinted to local media that the capital will be somewhere in the stretch of Vijayawada and Guntur. Opposition to this plan emerged last week when an advisory committee recommended several alternative locations to the central government, according to local reports.
由于毗邻维杰亚瓦达，阿吉瑞帕里及周边的村庄有了优势。这里的土地由欢迎商业发展的首席部长钱德拉巴布·奈杜(Chandrababu Naidu)所属的种姓控制。奈杜凭借亲市场的政策而赢得了国际声誉，他的政策帮助政府将海德拉巴建成了现在信息技术发达的都市。奈杜向当地媒体暗示，新首府将建在维杰亚瓦达及贡土尔周边的地区。当地媒体报道，该计划上周遭遇了反对，一个咨询委员会向中央政府推荐了几个备选的地点。
Many say that the beneficiaries of the speculation are not likely to be the farmers, who sell for relatively low prices. Nor will the government benefit, since it misses out on crucial tax revenue by turning a blind eye to off-the-book sales and illegal construction of housing and apartments on land zoned for agriculture.
很多人说，投机买卖的受益者不可能是农民，他们以相对低廉的价格出售土地。政府也不会受益，因为对没有入账的销售收入，以及在农业用地上非法建设住宅和公寓的做法视而不见，政府损失了大笔税收。
For years, emotions dominated the debate over whether to split Andhra Pradesh. It was a battle of haves and have-nots that drove activists from the poorer Telangana region to set themselves on fire, politicians to fast for days and poets to write verses in favor of a separate state. Politicians from the relatively prosperous coastal area of Andhra Pradesh opposed the split — in anticipation, some have suggested, of the loss of hefty revenues from Hyderabad — and literally came to blows in Parliament in February with those backing the bill for the split.
多年来，是否应该拆分安得拉邦的讨论一直涌动着种种情绪。这是富人和穷人之间的战争。较贫穷的泰伦加纳地区的活动人士曾因此而自焚，政治人物曾发起长达数日的绝食，而诗人们则写下了支持分出新邦的诗句。来自安得拉邦相对富裕的沿海地区的那些政治人物反对拆分，有人说，这是因为他们害怕失去海德拉巴贡献的大量收入。今年2月，这些政治人物居然在议会上与支持拆分法案的议员打了起来。
For Andhra Pradesh, which will need an influx of industry after losing Hyderabad, the Vijayawada-Guntur corridor represents an imperfect opportunity.
对于安得拉邦来说，维杰亚瓦达-贡土尔走廊代表着一个不太完美的机遇。如果失去海德拉巴，安得拉邦将需要工业的大批进驻。
“I know for a fact that politicians are buying land there,” said Anant Maringanti, the director of Hyderabad Urban Lab, an urban research program. “They’ll build real estate or high-value apartments. I don’t know if that’s really going to jump-start the economy.”
“我知道，官员们实际上都在那里购买土地，”城市研究项目“海德拉巴城市实验室”(Hyderabad Urban Lab)主任阿南特·马林甘地(Anant Maringanti)说。“他们将建设房屋或高档公寓。我不知道这是不是真的能推动经济。”
And despite the optimism, a bubble is a bubble, even for locals unfamiliar with the term. One resident compared the astronomically rising land prices to a pot of milk on the burner: quick to boil up, and, once the heat dies down, just as quick to vanish into nothing.
而且，尽管存在一些乐观情绪，但泡沫就是泡沫，不熟悉这个术语的当地百姓也明白这一点。一名居民把直线上升的土地价格比作炉子上的牛奶：很快就能煮沸，而一旦停止加热，泡泡也会同样快地消失。
“There has been no government announcement,” said Ponnaiah Krupam, a mango farmer with 10 acres of land and a small store near the main road. “I don’t understand what’s happening. I’m too afraid to sell.”
种植芒果的波纳亚·克鲁帕姆(Ponnaiah Krupam)拥有10英亩土地，还在一条主干道旁拥有一小间店面。他说，“政府什么都没有宣布。我不知道发生了什么。我太害怕了，不敢卖。”
Hari Babu Matcha, a farmer near Agiripalli, has invested in a change. He is now in the business of plotting land. He and a group of partners have bought 13 acres of paddy in Agiripalli, planted grass in its place, installed a paved road and a gate, distinguishing it from the surrounding rice fields. He hopes to see it become a gated community of 300 houses for government employees, teachers and a professional class he is betting will flock to the area. More than half of the plots have been sold, but so far, the frame of just one house has been built, little more than a roof supported by wooden beams in a vast field of numbered, empty plots.
住在阿吉瑞帕里附近的农民哈里·巴布·马恰(Hari Babu Matcha)投资时认定会发生变化。他目前正在做规划地皮的生意。他和几个合作伙伴在阿吉瑞帕里购买了13英亩的稻田，在上面种上青草，铺上了一条路，并修建了大门，让这片区域区别于周围的稻田。他希望这里能成为一个包含300所房屋的封闭式社区，供政府雇员、教师和白领居住。他押注这些群体会大量涌入该地区。超过一半的地块已经售出，但迄今为止，在由无数地块组成的广阔田野上，只建起了一栋房屋的框架——几根木梁支撑起的屋顶。