NEW DELHI — Four men convicted of a brutal gang rape were sentenced Friday to die by hanging, a decision met with satisfaction on the part of the victim’s parents and triumphant cheers from the crowd outside the courthouse, where some held up makeshift nooses and pictures of hanging bodies.
新德里——四名被判犯有野蛮轮奸罪的男人周五被判处绞刑，受害人父母对这一结果表示满意，聚集在法庭外的人们对宣判报以胜利的欢呼，有些人在那里举着象征性的绞索和被吊死的尸体的图片。
The four men — a fruit vendor, a bus attendant, a gym handyman and an unemployed man — were found guilty on Tuesday of raping a young woman on a moving bus last December, penetrating her with a metal rod and inflicting grave internal injuries, then dumping her out on the roadside.
这四人分别是一个水果贩、一个公交车乘务人员、一个健身房勤杂工和一名无业游民，他们在周二被判有罪，去年12月他们在一辆行驶的公交车上轮奸了一位年轻女子，还把一根金属棒插入她的身体，造成严重内伤，然后将她抛到路边。
The country was riveted by the story of the woman, who died of her injuries two weeks later, and tens of thousands of people flooded the streets to demand tougher policing and prosecution of sex crimes.
这位女子在两周后因伤重不治而亡，她的遭遇引起印度举国上下的关注，几万人涌上街头，要求加强对性犯罪的治安监督和法律惩罚。
But until the last minute it was unclear whether this would lead to death sentences in a country where liberal and populist impulses have strained against one another for decades, reserving the death sentences for “the rarest of rare cases.” News of the decision was met with a wave of jubilation on the street outside.
但是直到最后判决之前，人们并不清楚此案是否会导致宣判死刑，几十年来，印度自由派和民粹主义冲动相互制约着，只是在“极为罕见的案件中”才使用死刑。死刑判决的消息传来，法庭外的街道上一片欢腾。
“This is the beginning of freedom for Indian women today,” said Raman Deep Kaur, 38, a cosmetologist. “Today we are free, because these men are going to be killed.”
38岁的美容师拉曼·迪普·考尔(Raman Deep Kaur)说，“这是印度妇女解放的开始。今天我们自由了，因为这些男人将被处决。”
It is far from clear, however, that the four men will be executed in the near future.
然而，这四名男子是否会在近期内被执行死刑还很不确定。
India has liberal appeal laws and death sentences are routinely followed by years of motions to the Supreme Court and the president. Sadashiv Gupta, a defense lawyer for one of the men, said he was confident the sentence would be commuted to life in prison.
印度的上诉法律很宽大，随着死刑判决而来的，是向最高法院乃至总统提起的常规上诉，需要经过很多年的时间。为四名男子之一辩护的律师萨达希夫·古普塔(Sadashiv Gupta)说，他对死刑被减为终身监禁充满信心。
“I met with my client and I told him, ‘You are going to get the death penalty, take it in stride and don’t panic,’ ” Mr. Gupta said. “I think he shall not be hanged.”
古普塔说，“我和委托人见面时告诉他，‘你会被判死刑，要镇定自若，别惊慌。’我认为他一定不会被绞死。”
During the trial, defense attorneys invoked the “rarest of the rare” language laid out in a 1980 Supreme Court decision that overturned a death sentence. One cited the words of Mahatma Gandhi, the leader of India’s independence movement: “God gives life and he alone can take it, not man-made courts.” They also invoked mitigating circumstances, such as the young age and poverty of the defendants, or the fact that they had been drinking, undercutting the notion that the crime was premeditated.
在庭审期间，被告律师引用了1980年最高法院驳回一次死刑判决时所用的“极为罕见”这个词语。一位律师还引用了印度独立运动领袖莫罕达斯·甘地(Mahatma Gandhi)的话说：“上帝赋予的生命，只有他、而不是人造的法庭，可以夺走。”他们还提出一些可能减罪的细节，比如被告年纪轻轻而且贫穷，或者他们当时已经喝醉了，这一事实削弱了犯罪是有预谋的观点。
But Judge Yogesh Khanna clearly rejected those arguments, invoking the possibility of a larger wave of violence against women.
但是法官约吉什·康纳(Yogesh Khanna)明确地驳回了这些辩词，他指出存在着对妇女发生更大规模暴力行为的可能性。
“In these times when crimes against women are on the rise, the court cannot turn a blind eye to this gruesome act,” he said, according to reporters in the courtroom.
据法庭内记者的报道，法官说，“在目前的针对妇女的暴力行为不断增长的情况下，本法院对这种令人毛骨悚然的行为不能视若无睹。”
Defense arguments were drowned out by cries for execution – including from the victim herself, who before her death told a court official that her attackers “should be burned alive.” Protesters have congregated regularly outside the courthouse, chanting “Hang the rapists,” and on Friday they turned their wrath on the defense attorneys, forcing one to rush from the crowd.
被告的辩护词被人们要求死刑的呼声淹没，其中包括来自受害人本人的呼声，她在死前曾对一名法院官员说袭击她的人“应该被烧死”。抗议者经常聚集在法庭外，大喊着“绞死强奸犯”的口号，周五，他们将愤怒转向被告律师，迫使其中一位朝远离人群的方向跑开。
Rosy John, 62, a housewife watching the furor outside the courtroom this week, said her only objection to the death sentence was that it was too humane a punishment.
62岁的家庭主妇罗茜·约翰(Rosy John)本周目睹了法庭外人们的愤怒，她说她对那几个人被判死刑的唯一不满是，这个惩罚太人道了。
“After death, they will get freedom,” she said. “They should be tortured and given shocks their whole life. They have made so many people suffer, including their own families.”
她说，“他们死后就解脱了。他们应该被施以酷刑，终生遭电击。他们给这么多人带来苦难，包括他们的家人。”
Polls show that Indians remain ambivalent about using the death penalty, with 40 percent of respondents saying it should be abolished, according to a survey by CNN, IBN and The Hindu, a respected daily newspaper. Among the vocal opponents of using it in this case were a number of women’s rights groups.
民意调查显示，印度人对死刑的使用有矛盾的看法，CNN、IBN和印度主流报纸《印度教徒报》(The Hindu)一起做的一项调查显示，回应者中有40%认为应该取消死刑。对在这起案子中使用死刑表示强烈反对的团体中，有几个女性权益组织。
The writer Nilanjana S. Roy warned that executions would circumvent the more difficult question of why Indian girls and women are so vulnerable to sexual violence, most often at the hands of people they know.
作家尼兰亚纳·S·罗伊(Nilanjana S. Roy)警告称，执行死刑将会绕过一个更复杂的问题，那就是为什么印度女孩和妇女经常遭受性暴力，而施暴者往往是她们认识的人。
“A base but very human part of me would like them to suffer as much as they made that woman suffer,” she wrote in an editorial in The Hindu, going on to envision the result if convicted rapists were hanged consistently for a year: 10,000 neighbors, shopkeepers, tutors, grandfathers, fathers and brothers.
她在《印度教徒报》的一篇评论中写到，“我最本能也最人性的想法，是看到他们尽可能多地遭受痛苦，就像他们迫使那个女子所遭受的那样。”接下来，她假想了如果把一年中被判犯有强奸罪的人毫无例外地施以绞刑会怎样：一万个邻居、商店主、家庭教师、祖父、父亲和兄弟都会被绞死。
“I wish I could believe that this sort of mass public execution — if we agreed that this was the way forward — would do more than slake our collective need for vengeance,” Ms. Roy wrote. “But I don’t believe in fairy tales.”
罗伊写道，“假如我们一致认为这是解决问题的方法，但愿我能相信，大量的公开死刑除了满足我们对报复的集体需求外，能起更大的作用。但我不相信童话。”
Though there were six men on the bus when the woman was attacked, two were not sentenced on Friday. One defendant, Ram Singh, who was driving the bus at times during the assault, hanged himself with his bedsheet in his Delhi prison cell in March. A second defendant, who has not been named because he is a juvenile, was sentenced last month to three years in a detention center — the heaviest sentence possible in India’s juvenile justice system.
虽然该女子遭到袭击时，公交车上有六个男人，但其中两人在周五没有被判刑。一名被告拉姆·辛格(Ram Singh)案发时是开车的司机，今年3月在关押他的德里监狱牢房中，他用床单上吊自杀。另一名被告是未成年人，所以他的名字并未公开，上月他被判在一家少年犯拘留中心服刑三年——这是印度的未成年人司法体系中最严厉的判决。