NEW DELHI — Four men were convicted of all charges on Tuesday in the rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman who was attacked when she boarded a bus here in December, bringing a bitter close to a case that made this rapidly changing society confront the subject of sexual violence.
新德里——一位23岁的女子去年12月在当地一辆巴士上遇袭，周日，因涉嫌强奸并谋杀该女子而遭指控的四名男性，全部被判罪名成立。这桩令瞬息万变的印度社会直面性暴力问题的案件，终于划上了一个苦涩的句号。
The last and most urgent question — whether any of the men will receive the death penalty — will be answered Wednesday, when they are to be sentenced at a morning hearing. The family of the victim has demanded death sentences, and much of the public seemed to share their anger, flooding the streets last year to demand swift punishment in the case. The police here were braced for protests that might follow the sentencing.
唯一遗留下来的、同时也是最为紧迫的问题——这几名男子中是否有人会被判处死刑——周三便会见分晓，那天上午将会举行一场庭审，对他们做出判决。受害者的家人坚持死刑诉求，而大部分公众看起来和他们一样愤怒，去年，许多人都曾涌上街头要求从速惩办凶手。警方已经为宣判之后可能出现的示威活动做好了准备。
The crime stood out for its horror, even in this sprawling and chaotic city.
即便是在新德里这个混乱无序的城市中，这一令人发指的案件也显得极为突出。
The woman was returning home from a movie with a male friend and boarded a private bus with a group of men, mostly working-class migrants who the police said had been drinking. While the bus circled Delhi, the men attacked the pair, knocked the woman’s friend unconscious and took the woman to the back of the bus and raped her, sometimes using a metal rod. The two were dumped off on the roadside, naked and bleeding.
这名遇害女子在看完电影后，和一名男性友人乘坐私营巴士回家，同车的是一帮男人，多为工薪阶层的外地移民，警察称他们都喝了酒。当巴士绕着新德里兜圈子时，两人遭到了这帮男人的袭击。他们打晕女孩的朋友，并把女孩拖到车厢后部实施强奸，其间使用过一根金属棒。两人后来被扔到路边，赤身裸体、血流不止。
The woman died two weeks later of her injuries.
两周后，女孩因伤死亡。
Her death seemed to open a vault here, and nine months later reports of rape still saturate the country’s newspapers — whether because of increased attacks or increased reporting is not clear. Under pressure to respond to the surge of public anger, the government toughened laws on sexual violence. But the drumbeat of fresh reports offers little hope that this society has tackled the problem, and foreign women have become increasingly wary of traveling to India.
她的死仿佛打开了一道闸门，九个月过后，这个国家的报纸依然有大量有关强奸的新闻报道——也不知是因为强奸案更多了，还是因为对案件的报道更多了。公众怒火中烧，政府迫于压力收紧了对性暴力的法律约束。但关于性暴力的新闻依然密集涌现，人们难以看到印度社会解决这一问题的希望，而外国女性越来越不敢到印度旅游了。
After the verdict, a group of protesters stood outside, five of them men wearing black hoods, with heavy nooses looped around their necks. Young women stood with them, holding the ropes aloft. “Hang the rapists! Hang the rapists! Hang the juvenile! Hang the juvenile!” they chanted.
法院做出有罪判决后，一群示威者站在门外，其中五个男人头上戴着黑色的头套，脖子上挂着沉重的套索。与他们站在一起的一群年轻女性，则把套索高高扯起。“绞死强奸犯！绞死强奸犯！绞死少年犯！绞死少年犯！”她们喊道。
Vikas Tyagi, 31, who was with the protesters, said he thought executions were necessary to put an end to rapes.
31岁的维卡斯·蒂亚吉(Vikas Tyagi)是示威者之一，他认为，要彻底遏制强奸行为，必须处决强奸犯。
“Only fear can stop it,” he said. “We are the youth of India. We are her voice.”
“能阻止强奸行为的只有畏惧。”他说，“我们是印度的年轻一代，我们要代她发声。”
The prosecution benefited from detailed witness statements given by the victim before she died, and from her male companion, who came to court in a wheelchair to testify. But despite the establishment of special fast-track courts for sex crimes, the case has moved slower than many hoped, unfolding under unprecedented scrutiny.
被害人去世前给出了详细的证人口供，其男伴也曾坐着轮椅出庭作证，他们的证词对检察官帮助颇多。不过，尽管印度针对性犯罪开设了执行快捷程序的特别法庭，但该案的推进速度还是低于许多人的预期，而真相则在前所未有的监督之下日渐明朗。
One defendant, Ram Singh, who was driving the bus at times during the assault, hanged himself with his bedsheet in his Delhi prison cell this year as his cellmates looked on. His family said he had been subjected to sustained abuse while in custody, and at one point had been forced to drink urine.
今年，被告人之一、暴行发生期间在驾驶那辆巴士的拉姆·辛格(Ram Singh)，在新德里监狱牢房的狱友注视之下，用床单吊死了自己。辛格的家人称，被羁押期间，他受到了无休止的虐待，一度被迫喝尿。
A second defendant, who has not been named because he is a juvenile, was sentenced last month to three years in a juvenile detention center — the heaviest sentence possible in India’s juvenile justice system.
第二被告是一名未成年人，因此其名字并未公开，上个月他被判在一家少年犯拘留中心服刑三年——在印度的未成年人司法体系之下，这是法庭所能做出的最严厉的判决。
The defense for the men has been patchy. Three of them said they were never on the bus, and Mr. Singh said he was driving and unaware of the crime.
辩方的辩护一直漏洞百出。有三名被告人说他们从未上过车，辛格则说他正在开车，对于犯罪行为一无所知。
Early in the process, one defense lawyer argued that the attack would not have taken place were it not for “the lust of the boy” who accompanied the victim to the movies, and recommended that it was her companion who should be hanged.
在案件进入起诉环节之初，一名辩方律师称，要不是陪同受害人看电影的“那个男孩的色心”，他们俩根本不会遭到袭击。这名律师还提出，应该被绞死的是受害人的同伴。
Judge Yogesh Khanna, who issued a 240-page judgment on Tuesday, told the court, “I convict all the accused. They have been found guilty of gang rape, unnatural offenses, destruction of the evidence, and of committing the murder of the helpless victim.”
周日，法官约格什·康纳(Yogesh Khanna)公布了一份长达240页的判决书，他告诉法庭，“我判定所有罪名均成立。他们犯下了轮奸罪、违反自然罪、毁灭证据罪，并对无助的受害人实施了谋杀。”
Lawyers for all four men vowed to appeal the decision, and one of them said the trial was tainted by the extraordinary public interest in the case.
四名被告的律师都表示要上诉，其中一位律师表示，公众超乎寻常的关注对本案的审判产生了干扰。
“There was media pressure,” the lawyer, V. K. Anand, said. “There was public sentiment. This is a harassed judgment.”
“存在来自媒体的压力，”这位名叫V·K·阿南德(V. K. Anand)的律师表示，“公众情绪也起了作用。这是一次受到干扰的审判。”
And A.P. Singh, who represented three of the four men, called into doubt whether, after taking morphine, the victim was capable of giving an accurate witness statement. He also questioned whether she had in fact died of her injuries. “The victim was killed by a doctor,” he said. “It was a political murder, and this is a political decision.”
四名被告中，有三名的律师都是A·P·辛格，他对被害人在使用吗啡后是否有能力给出准确的证人口供表示怀疑。他还质疑她是否真的因伤死亡。“被害人是被一个医生杀死的，”他说，“这是一场政治谋杀，是一项政治决策。”
Prosecutors had given a different picture. As testimony drew to an end, the special prosecutor in the case, Dayan Krishnan, said each of the six defendants was linked to the crime through DNA evidence.
控方对事情的描述则完全不同。证词陈述即将结束时，本案特别检察官达洋·克瑞希南(Dayan Krishnan)称，DNA证据显示，六名被告均脱不了干系。
Bite marks on the woman’s body contained material identifying Mr. Singh and Akshay Thakur, who worked as an assistant on the bus, Mr. Krishnan told the Press Trust of India. He said Vinay Sharma, who worked as a handyman at a gym, had left fingerprints on the bus, and phone calls made from the vehicle were traced to a fruit seller, Pawan Gupta. Another man, Mr. Singh’s younger brother, Mukesh, has admitted taking part, he said.
克瑞希南告诉印度报业托拉斯(Press Trust of India),通过女受害人身体上的咬痕中残留的物质，可以判定辛格以及他在巴士上的工作助手阿克沙伊·塔库尔(Akshay Thakur)有罪。他还表示，巴士上留有健身房勤杂工维奈·夏尔马(Vinay Sharma)的指纹，通过从巴士打出的电话，则可以追踪到水果贩子帕万·古普塔(Pawan Gupta)。至于另一名被告、辛格的弟弟穆克什(Mukesh)，已经承认自己参与了暴行。
The victim’s parents — who, like the defendants, had migrated to Delhi from their home villages in search of jobs — have called for the death penalty throughout the process.
被害人的双亲——跟被告一样，也是为了找工作才从家乡移居到了新德里——从始至终都要求判处被告死刑。
“These monsters should be hanged,” her mother, Asha Devi, told a news channel as the family left for court on Tuesday morning. “When I saw her in the hospital later, she burst into tears and said, ‘Mummy, they beat me up very brutally.’ ” Her father, Badri Nath Singh, agreed.
“这些禽兽应该被绞死，”被害人的母亲周二上午与家人赶往法庭时告诉一家新闻台，“我后来在医院看到她时，她一下子哭了出来，说‘妈，他们非常残忍地毒打我。’”被害人的父亲巴德里·纳特·辛格( Badri Nath Singh)与妻子意见一致。
“If they are not hanged,” he told the reporter, “it will be a shame for everyone.”
“如果不把他们绞死，”他告诉采访他的记者，“对所有人都是一种侮辱。”