NEW DELHI — Snaking down one of this city’s dusty back streets on a recent afternoon was a line of auto-rickshaws, the motorized buggies that course through this city by the tens of thousands, carrying ordinary citizens on their daily rounds. Unless you looked closely, you could miss the fact that they were part of a political insurgency.
新德里——不久前的一个下午，一排电动三轮车沿着新德里一条尘土飞扬的小街逶迤而过。此类小型机动车在新德里有好几万辆，每天都会载着普通市民在市区穿行。若非仔细观察，你可能根本无法察觉，它们是一场政治抗争的组成部分。
One after another, drivers were plastering their vehicles with posters for the Aam Aadmi, or Common Man, Party, which hopes to end the ruling Congress Party’s 15-year dominance in Delhi in state elections two weeks from now.
一辆接一辆的电动三轮车，都被司机贴上了凡人党（Aam Aadmi Party，意为普通人的政党）的海报。该党希望，在两周后的地方选举中，终结当政的国大党(Congress Party)对德里为期15年的连续统治。
The idea seemed quixotic at first. Founded last year out of the fading embers of an anticorruption street movement, the party had only one recognizable face, that of a former tax commissioner, Arvind Kejriwal. Most striking, it avoided the red-meat topics that drive most Indian political forces — caste, religion, region and family — focusing instead on the lone issue of stamping out corruption.
起初，这种想法看起来颇为不切实际。凡人党借由一场街头反腐运动的余温在去年成立，党内只有一位知名人物，即前税务局长阿尔温德·凯杰里沃(Arvind Kejriwal)。最令人惊讶的是，它避开了驱动印度大多数政治势力的种姓、宗教、地区和家族等热门议题，把铲除腐败当成唯一的目标。
Seen from a distance, India’s forthcoming state elections are a gladiatorial showdown between the Congress Party, which has governed India for 53 of the last 65 years, and its Hindu nationalist opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party. But Aam Aadmi has broken that pattern in Delhi, in large part by capturing votes from the city’s working poor, a fast-growing group that has slipped out of Congress’s grip. Aam Aadmi has risen steadily in the polls, startling the heavyweights and setting the stage for a genuinely triangular contest.
远远望去，印度即将到来的邦级选举，将是国大党和印度教民族主义政党人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)之间的对决。前者在过去65年里统治印度长达53年之久，后者则是印度的主要反对党。但是，凡人党在德里打破了这种平衡，很大程度上靠得是赢得脱离国大党掌控的快速增长的本市贫苦工人阶层的支持。在民意调查中，凡人党的支持率稳步攀升。这让两个重量级党派心惊肉跳，同时也促成了真正意义上的三足鼎立的局面。
Asked why they would use their vote on an untested newcomer, the auto-rickshaw drivers responded with a stream of grievances — over bribetaking transport inspectors and thuggish police constables, but also over the price of onions, registration fees, potholes and a growing sense of disconnection between the governing class and the governed.
当被问及为什么要把选票投给一个未经考验的新党派的时候，一群电动三轮车司机连声诉苦。他们不仅提到了索贿的交通稽查员和暴戾的警务人员，还提到了洋葱的价格、注册登记的费用，以及统治阶层与被统治阶层之间的鸿沟和日益加深的疏离感。
“The common man is fed up,” said Pawan Kumar, extracting from his shirt a wad of paper documenting a fine that he had contested, desperately and fruitlessly. Nearby stood Gaurav, who said his frustration had grown so intense that whenever he overheard pro-Congress talk from passengers, he stopped his vehicle and told them it had malfunctioned.
“我们普通人已经受够了，”帕万·库马尔(Pawan Kumar)说这话时，从上衣里拽出了一摞罚单。他曾对这些罚单提出过异议，但却徒劳无功，无可奈何。站在一旁的高拉夫(Gaurav)称，他的愤怒无以复加，以致于每当无意间听到乘客说支持国大党的时候，就会停下来，告诉他们车子出了故障。
“Congress has been the ruling party for the last 60 years,” said Gaurav, who does not use a surname and who migrated with his family to Delhi as a child. “They say all the right things, but look at the condition of the country. Other countries have come much farther in 60 years. Why don’t we have better medical facilities, educational facilities, roads? Why? Who is answerable for this?”
“国大党在过去60年里一直是执政党，”高拉夫说。“他们嘴上说得冠冕堂皇，但看看这个国家的实际情况吧。60年了，其他国家都取得了大得多的进步。我们为什么没有更好的医疗设施、教育设施和公路？为什么？谁来为此负责？”高拉夫小时候跟随家人搬到了新德里，他没有透露自己的姓氏。
Even if Aam Aadmi wins only a small number of Delhi’s parliamentary seats — a real possibility, given India’s first-past-the-post system — it will challenge assumptions that have long undergirded Indian politics. Congress, with its socialist roots, addressed the rural and marginalized poor. Bharatiya Janata, created as a party of urban traders, spoke to more affluent, urban Indians, those more likely to hold Hindu nationalist views.
即便凡人党只在德里的地方议会中赢得很少的席位——鉴于印度采取领先者当选制，这种情况很有可能发生——还是会对印度政坛那些根深蒂固的观念构成挑战。过去，有社会主义渊源的国大党，迎合的是农村和边缘贫困人口；自创建之初便为城镇商人代言的人民党，笼络的则是更加富裕的城里人，而这些人持有印度教民族主义观念的倾向更为明显。
But that calculation is being scrambled in the black box of urban India, where new categories of voters are coming into existence.
然而，在混沌的印度城镇，上述盘算被打乱了，因为新的选民群体正浮出水面。
Though the new party had little chance of winning the very rich (B.J.P. voters) or the poorest of the poor (Congress’s), the fat layer in the middle is expanding with waves of migration from northeastern provinces. Yogendra Yadav, a soft-spoken political scientist who has become Aam Aadmi’s main strategist, said support for Aam Aadmi had grown fastest among “those who are a little uprooted, who come and are lost for identity, lost for a grouping.”
这个新党派很难赢得最富有人群（人民党的选民）或者最穷困人群（国大党的选民）的支持，可是，来自印度东北各邦的移民如潮水般涌入，让颇具规模的中间阶层日益扩展。语调柔和的政治学者约根德拉·亚达夫(Yogendra Yadav)已成为凡人党的主策略师，他说，对凡人党的支持率增长最快的是“背井离乡来到这里的人，缺乏身份认同感，没有属于自己的圈子”。
Those who have latched on to the Common Man bandwagon include many in Delhi’s fast-growing informal economy — “this vast army of drivers, blacksmiths, locksmiths, cobblers, domestic workers, the guys who sell paan on the sidewalk,” said Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist at Brown University. Voters like these interact constantly with low-level government officials, and their resentment has mounted to the point at which it trumps other political messages.
追随凡人党热潮的包括在德里从事高速增长的非正规经济活动的大批民众——“这支大军里有司机、铁匠、锁匠、鞋匠、家政工人，以及在街边卖槟榔的伙计，”布朗大学(Brown University)的政治学者阿舒托什·瓦什尼(Ashutosh Varshney)说。这类选民常常和级别较低的政府官员打交道，他们的不满已经累积到了一定的程度，压倒了其他政治讯息。
“There is a certain helplessness that comes from dealing with the malfunctioning state at the street level,” Mr. Varshney said. While more affluent people can “telephone their way through or bribe their way through,” he said, the working poor look to politicians to address their complaints. They vote, and in large numbers.
“与机能失常的政府打交道时，底层民众会感到某种无助，”瓦什尼说。较为富有的人“通过打电话找关系或者向人行贿就能打通关节”，他说，但贫穷的劳动者得靠政客替他们做主。他们会投票，大量地投票。