NEW DELHI — When the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi muscled through an executive order in December simplifying the government and private companies’ ability to obtain land for what it deems important development projects, it sent a message to voters — and Mr. Modi’s political adversaries — about his decisive style of leadership and his commitment to industry.
新德里——总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)的政府去年12月强行通过一项行政令，让政府和私营企业更容易为政府认为重要的一些项目获得所需的土地。此时，它向选民——以及莫迪的政治对手——传递了一个信号，透露出他果断的领导风格和对工业的重视。
“Modi govt to give industry its promised land,” read one newspaper headline.
“莫迪政府将为业界提供它所承诺的土地，”一份报纸的头条写道。
But as Mr. Modi tries to translate the land order into permanent law, he has met a wall of protest from a united opposition, threatening a part of his economic reform agenda meant to overcome longstanding barriers to growth in India.
不过，在莫迪试图把这项土地行政令变成永久法律时，他遇到了反对派顽固的联合抗议。对于莫迪提出的旨在克服印度增长的一些长期阻碍的经济改革议程，这种抗议对其中一部分构成了威胁。
On Friday, the Parliament broke for a monthlong recess without passing the bill. Venkaiah Naidu, the minister of parliamentary affairs, indicated that the government would push for the bill in the second half of the session, but Finance Minister Arun Jaitley did not rule out the possibility of canceling the rest of the parliamentary session and reissuing the executive order, which is set to expire by April 5.
周五，印度国会在未能通过该提案的情况下开始了一个月的休会期。国会事务部长文卡亚·奈杜(Venkaiah Naidu)表示，政府将在后半个会期推动这项提案，但财政部长阿伦·贾特里(Arun Jaitley)没有排除取消剩余会期、重新发布这项行政令的可能性。该指令定于4月5日失效。
Whether the bill is passed in the coming weeks or months will be an early indication of Mr. Modi’s ability to deliver on promises made to ease business restrictions over the long term and spur development of everything from new cities and factories to more roads, to speed commerce.
这项提案是否会在未来几周或几个月通过，将是对莫迪能否兑现承诺的早期检验。这些承诺是为了在长远尺度上放松商业限制，刺激包括建设新城市、工厂及更多道路的开发项目，从而加速商业活动。
On Sunday, during a recurrent radio broadcast from the prime minister, “Mann Ki Baat,” Hindi for “A Talk from the Heart,” Mr. Modi appealed to farmers to support land acquisition. He denied that the bill made it easier for corporations to obtain land without consent for private projects, a common concern.
周日，在莫迪经常进行的广播节目《心灵对话》(Mann Ki Baat)中，他呼吁务农者支持土地收购。他否认了一种普遍的担忧，即该提案将使企业更容易在没有征得同意的情况下获得土地来推进私人项目。
Last week, more than 100 lawmakers led by the matriarch of the opposition Indian National Congress, Sonia Gandhi, marched on the presidential palace to protest the bill. The party says it will weaken protections for farmers who earn a living from the coveted land.
上周，在反对党印度国大党(Indian National Congress)的女领导人索尼娅·甘地(Sonia Gandhi)的带领下，超过100名议员游行到了总统府，对这一提案进行抗议。国大党称，它将削弱对靠这些被觊觎的土地生存的务农者的保护。
“The government will very quickly understand that it’s one thing to win landslide elections and another thing to run a government,” Renuka Chowdhury, a Congress parliamentarian, told the television channel Times Now.
“政府很快就会明白，在大选中大获全胜是一回事，管理一个政府是另外一回事，”国大党议员雷努卡·乔杜里(Renuka Chowdhury)接受Times Now电视频道采访时称。
For certain development projects, the land bill would do away with two central provisions of a law, passed by a Congress-led government in 2013, that required projects carried out by private companies to have consent from at least 70 percent of farmers in an area before their land could be bought for development. It also does away with the requirement for a detailed survey to determine all the people affected by the loss of land, including sharecroppers.
对于某些开发项目来说，这份土地提案将取消一部法律的两项核心规定。这些规定是2013年由国大党领导的政府通过的，要求私营公司的项目必须获得一个地区至少70%的务农者的同意，才能征收他们的土地。提案还将取消对一项详细调查的要求。此类调查旨在明确因失去土地而受到影响的所有人，佃农也不例外。
The Modi-led government has said those demands were chasing away investors needed to fuel India’s growth.
莫迪政府表示，这些规定正在赶走刺激印度经济增长所需的投资者。
The conflict over the proposed changes has led to a showdown in good part because many farmers do not trust the government and are afraid that they will be forced to part with their land for too little money.
围绕改革提议的冲突导致了一场对决。这在很大程度上是因为许多务农者不信任政府，害怕他们会被迫舍弃土地，却只得到很微薄的补偿。
The dispute also has a political dimension, analysts say, as the opposition Congress party struggles to retain relevance after a humiliating loss of power last year to Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party.
分析人士称，这一争议也带有政治色彩。在去年丢脸地让权于莫迪领导的人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)后，反对党国大党在奋力保持影响力。
“What I see is an opportunity by the opposition to bring the B.J.P. to its knees,” said Sanjoy Chakravorty, a professor of geography and urban studies at Temple University. “You can never go wrong by claiming to be pro-farmer in India.”
“在我看来，这是反对党让人民党臣服的一个机会，”天普大学(Temple University)的地理和与城市研究教授桑乔伊·沙克拉沃尔蒂(Sanjoy Chakravorty)说。“在印度，宣称支持务农者永远都不会错。”
The bill loosens restrictions on buying land for five types of developments that Mr. Modi believes are central to India’s economic growth, including the building of rural infrastructure and industrial “corridors” that would encourage more trade between major cities.
这项提案将放松对收购用于五类开发的土地的限制。莫迪认为这些开发项目是印度经济增长的核心，其中包括修建乡村基础设施，以及建设将鼓励大城市之间进行更多贸易的工业“走廊”。
In one important corridor, between Delhi and Mumbai, a significant part of the project — the proposed construction of a warehousing area — has been abandoned because farmers have been unwilling to sell, according to Amitabh Kant, the project’s chairman.
据德里和孟买之间那条重要走廊的项目主席阿米塔布·康德(Amitabh Kant)介绍，该项目很重要的一部分——修建一个仓储区的提议——已遭放弃，因为务农者一直不愿卖地。
The new bill passed in the lower house of Parliament, where Mr. Modi’s party enjoys a majority, on March 10, but faces serious hurdles in the upper house, where the B.J.P. is in the minority.
新提案于3月10日在莫迪所在政党拥有多数席位的议会下院通过，但在人民党属少数党的议会上院，它面临着严峻的障碍。
Even critics of the bill say that the reforms, if properly done, would greatly benefit farmers, most of whom make a substandard living off the land.
就连提案的批评者也表示，若恰当实施，这些改革会让务农者大大获益。印度的大部分务农者只能靠土地过着标准水平以下的生活。
“The farmers are going to make money from acquisition which is 25 times or maybe 100 times more than they’re going to get from farming in perpetuity,” said Mr. Chakravorty, the Temple professor, who wrote the book “The Price of Land: Acquisition, Conflict, Consequence.”
“务农者从征地中得到的补偿，会是他们永久耕作所赚的钱的25倍，乃至100倍，”天普大学的教授沙克拉沃尔蒂说。他写过一本书，名为《地价：征地、冲突及后果》(The Price of Land: Acquisition, Conflict, Consequence)。
There is some indication that more farmers would sell under the right circumstances. A report published last year by an arm of a Delhi-based think tank, the Center for the Study of Developing Societies, found that 61 percent of farmers would leave farming if they were able to get a job in a city.
一些迹象表明，更多的务农者愿在适当情况下卖地。总部位于德里的智库发展中社会研究中心(Center for the Study of Developing Societies)去年发布的一项报告发现，如果能在城市里找到工作，61%的务农者愿意放弃目前的生计。