NEW DELHI — A 10-year-old girl who was repeatedly raped by her stepfather, and who is now at least 20 weeks pregnant, may be forced to give birth because of India’s restrictive abortion law.
新德里——一名10岁的女孩多次被自己的继父强奸，如今已经怀孕至少20周，但由于印度的法律严格限制堕胎，她可能会被迫生产。
In a case that has become a glaring example of both impunity for rapists and a lack of women’s reproductive rights in India, a court must decide whether the pregnant girl is entitled to an abortion.
这起案件已经变成强奸者在印度免于惩罚、女性生育权缺失的突出例证。法院必须决定这名怀孕的女孩是否有权堕胎。
A medical board in the northern Indian state of Haryana said on Monday that the girl’s life had not been endangered by the pregnancy, a necessary condition under the law for most abortions conducted after 20 weeks. India enacted that law in part to discourage the widespread termination of female fetuses in a part of the world where boys are preferred.
周一，印度北部哈里亚纳邦(Haryana)的一个医学委员会表示，这名女孩的生命并没有因为怀孕而受到威胁。依据印度法律，那是怀孕20周以后进行大多数堕胎手术的必要条件。印度颁布这项法律，部分原因是为了阻止一些地方普遍存在的打掉女胎的行为，因为人们更愿意要男孩。
In making its determination, the medical board said a court would have to determine whether the girl’s case meets the legal threshold of “exceptional circumstances” that justify an abortion.
该医学委员会表示，法院在做裁决时必须确定这名女孩的案子是否满足堕胎“特殊情况”的法律门槛。
The case came to light last Wednesday when the police received a tip on a help line dedicated to crimes against women. The caller was the girl’s mother, said Pankaj Nain, the police chief of Rohtak district in Haryana State.
上周三，警方在一个致力于打击针对女性犯罪的救助热线上获得线报之后，这个案件得以曝光。哈里亚纳邦罗塔克区警察局局长潘卡杰·纳恩(Pankaj Nain)表示，打来电话的是女孩的母亲。
Investigators found that the girl had been “repeatedly raped by her stepfather over a period of time,” said a police inspector at a Rohtak police station devoted to crimes against women.
调查人员发现，这名女孩“在一段时间里多次被继父强暴”，罗塔克警察局一名专门负责针对女性犯罪的警督说道。
“We found the girl in very miserable condition,” said the inspector, Garima, who, like many Indians, goes by a single name. The girl’s mother and stepfather worked as day laborers on construction sites, and her stepfather, who was in his early 20s, would exploit her mother’s absence to rape the girl, said Dr. S. K. Dhattarwal, the head of the forensic medicine department at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences.
“我们发现这个女孩情况非常糟糕，”像许多印度人一样只用一个单名的警督加里马(Garima)说道。罗塔克医学研究所(Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences)法医部主任S·K·达塔瓦勒(S. K. Dhattarwal)表示，这名女孩的母亲和继父在建筑工地做临时工，20岁出头的继父会趁母亲不在的时候强奸她。
The victim was examined by a medical board consisting of seven doctors, Dr. Dhattarwal said. They concluded that she was 10 to 12 years old, and that her pregnancy exceeded 20 weeks.
达塔瓦勒表示，受害人接受了由七名医生组成的医学委员会的检查。他们得出结论，称她的年龄在10岁到12岁之间，怀孕时间已经超过20周。
“She is traumatized and not able to speak properly,” Dr. Dhattarwal said. “She was not able to understand what was going on with her. She was subjected to sexual intercourse several times.”
“她受到了精神创伤，无法正常说话，”达塔瓦勒说。“她无法理解自己的遭遇。她被迫进行了几次性交。”
Two other recent rapes in the region have reinforced India’s reputation as dangerous for women. The badly mutilated body of a woman in her early 20s was found last week, and medical examiners said the bones in her head had been shattered and sharp objects inserted into her vagina.
该地区最近发生的另外两起强奸事件强化了印度对女性而言十分危险的名声。上周，警方发现一名20岁出头的女子遭到严重损害的尸体，法医表示她的头骨被击碎，有尖锐的物体插入了她的阴道。
“It was a brutal sexual assault-cum-murder,” said Dr. Dhattarwal, who also supervised the medical examination in that case. He said the woman’s assailants had tried to smash her head and disfigure her face to make it unrecognizable.
“这是一起残忍的性侵谋杀案件，”同样负责监督该案件医学检查工作的达塔瓦勒说。他表示，袭击这名女子的人试图击碎她的脑袋，毁掉她的容貌，好让人认不出来。
The victim’s relatives said she had been harassed by one of the men suspected in the rape. The police have made two arrests in the case.
受害人的家属表示，被怀疑强奸的两名男子有一人之前骚扰过她。在这起案件中，警方已经逮捕了两名嫌疑人。
Also last week, a young woman was dragged into a moving car by a group of men as she was walking home after midnight. The police said she was raped repeatedly for hours in the moving car, then thrown onto the road in the city of Gurgaon just south of New Delhi.
也是在上周，一名女子在午夜之后走路回家时被一群男子拖入一辆开动的轿车。警方表示，她在那辆开动的车上遭到持续数个小时的强暴，之后被扔到了新德里以南古尔冈市的路边。
The cases recalled the 2012 rape of a physiotherapy student in Delhi who had boarded a private bus with a male friend after seeing a movie at a mall and was fatally injured during a sexual assault.
这些案件让人想起了2012年在德里发生的公交车强奸案，受害者是一名物理治疗专业的女学生，她和一个男性朋友在购物中心看完电影之后，登上了一辆私营的公交车，在遭受性侵过程中因重伤不治身亡。
The death of the woman, who became known as “Nirbhaya,” or “fearless,” infuriated many Indians, who had become exasperated by the casual harassment of women in public spaces.
这个姑娘后来被称为“Nirbhaya”，意思是“无所畏惧”。她的死亡激怒了很多印度人，他们对女性在公共场所遭到随意骚扰十分愤怒。
Five men were sentenced to death in that case, and last week India’s Supreme Court upheld the verdict.
涉案的五名男子被判处死刑，上周，印度最高法院维持了原判。