MUMBAI, India — India’s economy stands in disarray, with the prospect of worse to come in the next few months. Economists predict it and people in business sense it. Vinod Vanigota, a Mumbai wholesaler of imported computer hard drives, said sales had dropped by a quarter in the last two weeks. The rupee, India’s currency, has been so volatile in recent days that he began revising his price lists every half-hour.
印度孟买——印度经济乱了阵脚，未来几个月的经济前景可能还会更加惨淡。经济学家是这么预测的，商界人士也是这么感觉的。孟买的进口电脑硬盘批发商维诺德·瓦尼戈塔(Vinod Vanigota)说，过去两周里其销售额下降了四分之一。近些天来，印度货币卢比波动极大，以至于他开始每隔半小时就更新一次价目表。
Business activity at Chip Com Traders, where he is the managing director and co-owner, has slowed so sharply that trucking companies are pleading for business. “One of the companies called today and said, ‘Don’t you have a parcel of any sort for us to deliver today?'” Mr. Vanigota said.
瓦尼戈塔是Chip Com Traders公司的董事总经理兼合伙人，由于该公司的业务显著放缓，已经有运输公司跑来乞求生意了。瓦尼戈塔说，“其中一家公司今天打来电话问，‘难道您今天没有任何类型的包裹需要我们运送吗？’”
India had seemed tantalizingly close to embarking on the same dash for economic growth that has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in China and across East Asia.
在中国和东亚地区，经济的高速增长把亿万人口从贫困中解放了出来，而印度原本似乎马上要踏上同样的高速增长之路。
But that dream is threatened by an economic decline that has laid bare chronic problems, little remarked upon during the recent boom. An antiquated infrastructure, a sclerotic job market, exorbitant real estate costs and bloated state-owned enterprises never allowed manufacturing, especially manufacturing for export, to grow strong enough to sustain India during times, like now, when investors in affluent countries start bringing their money home after years of placing riskier bets on emerging markets.
这个梦想现在受到了经济衰退的威胁。一些并未在前不久的繁荣时期中受到关注，却又长期存在的问题，也因为经济衰退而暴露了出来。多年以来冒着更大风险押注新兴市场的富裕国家投资者，已经开始把资金撤往本国市场，在诸如此类的时刻，印度陈旧的基础设施、僵化的就业市场、骇人听闻的地产成本，以及臃肿不堪的国有企业，根本无法令制造业——尤其是出口制造业——发展壮大，进而支撑印度渡过难关。
The rupee fell further and faster in August against the dollar than any of the world’s 77 other internationally traded currencies.
8月，卢比对美元的贬值幅度和速度，超越了世界上其他77种国际交易货币中的任何一种。
The real estate market is teetering after soaring to vertiginous heights over the last few years. Cranes on Mumbai’s skyline perch nearly immobilized as developers struggle for cash.
房地产市场在过去几年里飙升到了令人眩晕的高度，现在却是遥遥欲坠。由于开发商缺少资金，悬在孟买天际的吊车几乎静止了。
The things the emerging middle class coveted, Chevrolets, iPhones and foreign vacations, have all jumped sharply in price in recent weeks. The price increases threaten to worsen consumer price inflation — already among the highest in Asia at an annual rate of almost 10 percent — and widen the country’s already large international trade deficit and government budget deficit. India’s government is now bracing the country for a swift increase in the price of diesel fuel and other imported necessities priced in dollars. Diesel is the lifeblood of the Indian economy, from the trucks that crawl along the country’s jammed, potholed roads to the backyard generators that struggle to compensate for the high-cost yet unreliable electricity grid. Some economists say that they hope India will have only a V-shaped economic downturn, with a rebound starting by early next year if a weak rupee rejuvenates India’s struggling exporters. “India is not Greece — we never binged on debt on a grand scale,” said Ajay Shah, a prominent economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in New Delhi. The root of the problem is India’s failure to creative a vibrant industrial base with the strength to export. As Western buyers scour Asia for alternatives to increasingly expensive Chinese factories, India and its enfeebled manufacturing sector are mostly ignored.
最近几周，雪佛兰(Chevrolet)、iPhone、出国旅游，所有这些让新兴中产阶级垂涎的东西，价格都在飙升。这会加剧消费价格上涨，印度的年通胀水平接近10%，已经处在亚洲前列；同时还会进一步拉大该国已然巨大的贸易逆差和政府预算赤字。印度政府正在为柴油及其他以美元计价的进口必需品的价格暴涨做准备。柴油是印度经济的命脉，从该国拥挤颠簸的道路上爬行着的卡车，到后院里竭力给价格高昂但却并不稳定的电网充当备胎的发电机，都离不了它。一些经济学家称，他们希望印度的经济衰退只是V型的，如果疲软的卢比能给苦苦挣扎的出口商注入新活力，经济反弹将从明年初开始。“印度不是希腊——我们从未肆意妄为，大规模借入外债，”阿贾伊·沙阿(Ajay Shah)说。沙阿是新德里国家公共财政和政策研究所(National Institute of Public Finance and Policy)的著名经济学家。问题的根源在于，印度没能建立起一个充满活力且具备出口实力的工业基础。随着中国的工厂成本日益提高，西方买家在亚洲寻找替代国家时，印度和它那萎靡不振的制造业几乎被忽略了。
In a country where it has never been easy to do business, it is becoming even more difficult because of economic volatility and uncertainty, say economists and the people trying to run India’s businesses. Soeb Z. Bandukwala, a managing director of Ansons Electro Mechanical Works, a maker of water pumps and electric motors, wonders how a recovery can arrive, given India’s structural problems. He runs a business that has been in his family since 1967 and has grown to four factories. Yet he keeps each factory at fewer than 50 workers and has maintained some metal grinding machines and other equipment in use since the 1970s without replacement.
经济学家以及试图在印度经营企业的人士均表示，在这个国家做生意从来不是件容易的事，而现在由于经济的波动和不确定性，做生意就更困难了。鉴于印度所存在的结构性问题，水泵及电动马达制造商安森斯电气机械公司(Ansons Electro Mechanical Works)的董事总经理索伯·Z·班杜夸拉(Soeb Z. Bandukwala)搞不清复苏如何才能到来。这家企业是他的家族从1967年开始经营的，发展至今已经有了四家工厂。不过，他从未让每家工厂的工人数量超出过50名；而厂里使用的一些金属研磨机和其他设备还是上世纪70年代购置的，从未更换过。
His worry is that if he exceeds 50 workers or surpasses certain benchmarks for total investment, he will become subject to extensive labor legislation. The laws make it nearly impossible to dismiss workers even during economic downturns and require the installation of dressing rooms and a canteen and the creation of a human relations department.
他担心的是，如果雇用超过50名工人，或者让总投资超出一定的标准，那他就要受到大量劳工法规的制约。按照此类法规的规定，解雇工人几乎是不可能的——即便是在经济衰退期间，还得建更衣室、食堂，并设立人事关系部门。
“There is a fear, and the fear is the labor laws,” said Mr. Bandukwala, who is also a regional leader in the Confederation of Indian Industry.
班杜夸拉说，“有顾虑，对劳工法规的顾虑。”他同时也是印度工业联合会(Confederation of Indian Industry)的一名地区负责人。
Infrastructure is also a problem. Ansons is only 35 miles from the port through which it exports machinery to Europe. Yet trucks require four to seven hours to reach the port because promised expressways have never been built.
基础设施也成问题。安森斯公司出口到欧洲的机械设备要从一个港口运输，公司距离港口只有35英里（约合56公里）远，但卡车开到那儿却需要四至七个小时，因为承诺的高速公路一直没有建成。
Speeds barely faster than walking at least help protect pumps and motors from harm. “If the speed is greater, damage will take place because of the potholes,” Mr. Bandukwala said.
速度比步行快不了多少，这至少有助于避免水泵和马达损坏。班杜夸拉说，“如果速度再快点，因为路面坑坑洼洼，就会发生损坏。”
The Indian government has tried for a decade to step up construction of bridges, roads and other infrastructure, only to face severe delays and cost overruns because of land disputes and corruption. With state-owned banks now awash in infrastructure loans with murky prospects for repayment, the government is shifting from infrastructure investments to politically popular programs, like one for national food subsidies that won Parliament’s approval on Monday night.
印度政府已经用了10年时间努力建设桥梁、道路和其他基础设施，但因为土地纠纷和腐败问题，工期总是严重拖延，预算也经常严重超支。国有银行现在放出了巨额的基础设施贷款，但偿还的前景却十分暗淡，于是政府现在从基础设施投资转向了政治上更受欢迎的项目，如周一晚间赢得国会批准的一个全国性食品补贴项目。
Poor infrastructure has also driven up costs for industrial real estate in India, which are high compared with China’s. Just in the last five years, China has opened 5,800 miles of high-speed rail routes and 400,000 miles of highways of two or more lanes. That has allowed tens of thousands of factories to move to smaller towns in the interior with much lower land costs.
糟糕的基础设施也推高了商业地产的成本，与中国相比印度的商业地产价格很高。仅在过去五年间，中国开通了总长5800英里的高速铁路线，总长40万英里的双车道或多车道公路。于是数以万计的工厂得以迁至规模更小、成本也更低的内陆城镇。
India has been unable to open up its interior the same way, building half as many miles of highways over the same period and no high-speed rail routes. At the same time, rent control and other land regulations make it extremely difficult to tear down and replace even the most dilapidated buildings. So cities like Mumbai have ended up with dozens of square miles of mold-stained, low-rise buildings with spots of bright green fungus, interspersed by the occasional skyscrapers that were somehow built. Remote, outer fringes of factories and office buildings have sprouted on what was once farmland.
印度一直没能以同样的方式打开内陆地带；在同一时间段内建设的公路里程数仅是中国的一半，高速铁路更是不存在。与此同时，由于受到租金管控及其他土地规章的制约，即使是最破落的建筑，想要拆除并以新楼取而代之都异常困难。因此，像孟买这样的城市现在的状况是，低层建筑绵延数十平方英里，墙上沾满苔藓，明亮的绿色真菌斑驳可见，其间偶尔穿插着不知如何修建起来的摩天大楼。在更边缘的偏远区域，曾经是农田的土地上，建起了的工厂和写字楼。
The acute shortage of real estate less than a day’s drive from ports has produced steep real estate prices and rents. Challenge Overseas, a trousers manufacturer, paid $1.3 million five years ago to buy the 20,000-square-foot top floor of a decrepit, four-story factory building with blocked fire escapes on a muddy alley on the outskirts of Mumbai, and sold it for $2.7 million last month. The floor underneath, the company’s 60-employee factory, sold for $410,000 in 2003 and is now valued at $1.2 million.
由于距离港口一天车程以内的商业地产严重短缺，因此地产价格和租金都十分高昂。制裤企业“海外挑战”(Challenge Overseas)五年前花130万美元（约合796万元人民币），在一栋有四层楼的老旧厂房里，买下了顶层2万平方英尺（约合1860平方米）的空间。这座厂房位于孟买郊外一条泥泞的小道旁，而且消防通道还被堵住了。上个月，这层楼售出时，卖了270万美元。下面那层楼是该公司有60名员工的工厂，在2003年的售价为41万美元，现在价值120万美元。
Roads and bridges to inland towns are not the only infrastructure problem. Shakti Industries, which thins and cuts aluminum wires for jewelry manufacturers, pays the equivalent of 15 to 18 cents per kilowatt-hour for electricity. In China, even after a round of price increases coming in late September to pay for more clean energy, factory owners will pay half as much.
通往内陆城镇的道路和桥梁并不是唯一的基础设施问题。夏科提工业公司(Shakti Industries)为首饰制造商拉细、切割铝丝，该公司需要支付的电费相当于每千瓦时15至18美分。而在中国，即使是在9月底，电价因购买更多清洁能源而出现一轮上涨之后，工厂主所支付的电费也只是这个价格的一半。
Shakti has only seven employees. Yet it is regulated by more than a dozen government agencies, each of which sends a separate inspector each year before issuing licenses for everything from electricity use to water pollution. Many of the inspectors demand bribes, said Vipul S. Kamani, the managing director of Shakti. High real estate and electricity costs leave businesses with very little money to pay workers and remain competitive in the global markets for garments and other manufactured goods.
夏科提公司只有七名员工，然而却受不下十几个政府部门的监管，每年每个部门都会单独派来一名检查员进行检查，之后才会向其发放从用电到水污染的各种许可证。夏科提公司董事总经理维普尔·S·卡玛尼(Vipul S. Kamani)说，许多检查员会索取贿赂。扣去高地价和高电价之后，企业给员工发薪水的钱所剩无几，想要在全球服装市场，及其他制成品市场上保持竞争力也十分困难。
Arun Prajapati, 21, a migrant worker at a fabric fusing machine at Challenge, said that he earned about $100 a month, just a fifth of what Chinese workers earn these days. He pays $9 a month for rent and electricity for his sleeping space on the floor of a 10-foot-by-10-foot room that he shares with five other migrant workers in a nearby shanty, and spends $38 a month for a subsistence diet of roti bread, lentils and, once a week, some chicken or eggs. He sends his meager savings to his widowed mother in their home village in central India.
今年21岁的阿伦·普拉贾帕蒂(Arun Prajapati)是一名农民工，现在在挑战公司操作织物粘合机。他说，他的月薪为每月100美元，只是目前中国工人薪水的约五分之一。他与另外五名农民工一起住在附近棚屋里一间不到10平方米的房间里，每个月需要为自己睡的那一块地板支付9美元的租金和电费。每个月他还需要花38美元购买维生的食品，烤饼、小扁豆，每周可以吃一次鸡肉或鸡蛋。剩下的绵薄结余，他会寄回位于印度中部老家村里寡居的母亲。
“With expenses rising each month, things are only getting harder and harder,” he said. “I am just trying to get through life.”
“开销每个月都在涨，越来越难，”他说，“我现在只能努力坚持下去。”