JAKARTA, Indonesia — Two men accused of having sex with each other were each sentenced Wednesday to 85 lashes in public, the first case of people being punished for homosexuality in the Indonesian province of Aceh under a strict version of Shariah law.
印度尼西亚雅加达——周三，两名被指控发生性关系的男子被分别判处公开鞭打85下，这是印度尼西亚亚齐省依照严格的伊斯兰教法处罚同性恋行为的第一起案例。
The sentences alarmed rights activists, who called the punishment excessive and a dangerous turn of events in Aceh, a semiautonomous province that has imposed a strict version of Shariah, the legal code of Islam.
判决引起了维权活动人士的警觉，他们认为处罚过于严厉，是亚齐省事态的危险转折点。亚齐省是半自治省份，实行严格的伊斯兰教法。
News reports said that vigilantes had caught the two men naked in bed, and that the two had pleaded not to be reported to the Shariah police. The two were then beaten, an attack recorded on video, and were later taken to a local police station.
新闻报道称，自发的治安维护者抓住了两名在床上赤身裸体的男子，两人请求不要报告给伊斯兰教警察。之后，两人遭到殴打，殴打过程被录到了视频中，后来被送往当地警察局。
“So you don’t like women? Not interested in them anymore?” Marzuki Ali, chief investigator for the Shariah police, asked the men, ages 20 and 23, shortly after they were taken to the police station in March. Cameras recorded his comments.
“所以，你们不喜欢女人？不再对她们感兴趣了？”今年3月，这两名分别20岁和23岁的男子被带往警局之后不久，伊斯兰教警方的首席探员马祖克·阿里(Marzuki Ali)向他们问道。摄像机录下了他的讯问。
A total of 339 people were caned in Aceh in 2016 on charges of moral indecency, according to Human Rights Watch.
根据人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)的统计，2016年，亚齐省共有339人因道德败坏罪遭到鞭打。
According to an annual report on state-sponsored homophobia, compiled by the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, homosexuality is effectively a crime in 72 countries.
根据国际LGBT协会撰写的国家支持的同性恋恐惧症年度报告，在72个国家，同性恋行为实际上被认为是犯罪行为。
In three — Iran, Saudi Arabia and Yemen — it is codified as a crime punishable by death, though executions are rare. In five other countries — Afghanistan, Mauritania, Pakistan, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates — a death penalty for homosexuality is codified under Shariah law, but it has not been put into practice.
在三个国家——伊朗、沙特阿拉伯和也门——同性恋行为被定为可判处死刑的罪行，尽管很少出现相关处决。在另外五个国家——阿富汗、毛里塔尼亚、巴基斯坦、卡塔尔和阿拉伯联合酋长国——伊斯兰教法规定同性恋应处以死刑，但没有付诸实施。
Sixty-three countries have nondiscrimination laws that protect gay men and lesbians, and 23 recognize same-sex marriage — most recently Finland and Slovenia, which did so this year.
有63个国家设立了保护同性恋者的反歧视法律，有23个国家承认同性婚姻——最新承认的两个国家是芬兰和斯洛维尼亚，它们是今年承认的。
Aceh is the only province in Indonesia that has formally adopted Shariah, and homosexuality is legal in most of Indonesia.
亚齐省是印尼唯一正式采用伊斯兰教法的省份，同性恋在印尼的大部分地区是合法的。
But a nationwide campaign by conservative civil society groups against homosexuality culminated in a major case now before the country’s Constitutional Court, which will decide whether sex outside marriage should be banned throughout Indonesia. A ban on sex outside marriage would effectively ban homosexual sex, as gay marriage is illegal in Indonesia.
不过现在，保守派民间社会团体反对同性恋的全国性运动在该国宪法法院的一个重大案件中达到高潮。该法院将决定是否应在印尼全境禁止婚外性行为。禁止婚外性行为实际上将禁止同性恋行为，因为在印尼，同性婚姻是非法的。