NEW DELHI — Almost a year after the shocking death of Sunanda Pushkar, the glamorous wife of a well-known South Indian member of Parliament, the Delhi Police have finally decided what to call it: murder.
新德里——近一年之后，德里警方终于得出结论，应将苏南达·普什卡尔(Sunanda Pushkar)的轰动性死亡事件称为“谋杀”。普什卡尔生前光彩照人，丈夫是来自印度南部的著名议员。
B. S. Bassi, the Delhi Police commissioner, told reporters on Tuesday that the authorities believed that Ms. Pushkar had ingested or been injected with poison. He said the police had filed a preliminary murder case while continuing their investigation. He did not name a suspect.
周二，德里警察局长B·S·巴锡(B. S. Bassi)向记者宣布，当局认为，普什卡尔摄入或被注射了毒药。他表示，警方在继续调查的同时已初步以谋杀嫌疑立案。不过，他并未给出嫌疑人的姓名。
“On Dec. 29, the medical board gave us a report, and the main point in that report was one: The death was unnatural,” Mr. Bassi said, adding that evidence samples would be sent abroad for testing to determine exactly which poison was used.
“在12月29日，医学委员会向我们提交了报告，其中的主要观点归结为一条：这是非正常死亡，”巴锡说。他还表示，证据样本将送至国外进行检测，以便确定到底采用的是何种毒药。
Ms. Pushkar had publicly accused her husband, the former cabinet minister Shashi Tharoor, of infidelity, and the resulting scandal was reaching a fever pitch when she died last January at the age of 52. Mr. Tharoor, a former junior minister and United Nations official, has maintained that he believes she died of natural causes.
普什卡尔生前曾公开指责自己的丈夫——前内阁部长沙希·塔鲁尔(Shashi Tharoor)——不忠，引爆了一桩丑闻。去年1月，52岁的普什卡尔身亡，令丑闻达到了沸腾的顶点。塔鲁尔担任过联合国官员和印度的副部长。他一直坚称自己认为妻子死于自然原因。
The police announcement on Tuesday revived speculation about the case in the capital, with journalists rehashing a year of sometimes baffling twists while politicians weighed in along partisan lines.
警方周二的声明让德里再次因这起案件而满城风雨。媒体重新炒作起这一年扑朔迷离的案情转折，而政界人士纷纷介入，立场按照党派划分。
Opponents of Mr. Tharoor and his party, the Indian National Congress, have suggested foul play from the beginning. Subramanian Swamy of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which now governs the country, said last year that the death was a “well-planned murder.”
塔鲁尔隶属于印度国大党(Indian National Congress)。打一开始，反对该党及塔鲁尔本人的那一派就指责其中存在不法行为。执政党人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的主席苏布拉马尼亚姆·斯瓦米(Subramanian Swamy)去年声称，这起死亡事件是“精心策划的谋杀”。
K. T. S. Tulsi, a Supreme Court lawyer and an appointed member of the upper house of Parliament, said on the Indian news channel NDTV that “the case is in danger of becoming a political football.”
最高法院律师、上议院的委任议员K·T·S·图尔西(K. T. S. Tulsi)接受印度新闻台NDTV采访时表示，“这起案件有变成政治皮球的危险。”
Mr. Bassi said that it had taken the police almost a year to lodge a murder case because the doctors who conducted the post-mortem examination and the medical board needed to collect more information and evidence to file their final report. Mr. Tharoor has expressed frustration with the pace of their work.
巴锡称，警方之所以花了近一年的时间才正式以谋杀嫌疑立案，是因为进行尸检的法医及医学委员会需要搜集更多的信息和证据来形成最终的报告。对于他们的工作进度，塔鲁尔颇有怨言。
The doctor who led the postmortem team said last summer that he had come under pressure to change his findings and had resisted, according to local news reports. The hospital where he works, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, denied that account in a statement, according to the Press Trust of India.
根据当地媒体的报道，领导尸检团队的医生去年夏天曾表示，有人向他施压，要求更改调查结论，而他予以了抵制。不过，印度报业托拉斯通讯社(Press Trust of India)称，他所在的全印医药科学院(All India Institute of Medical Sciences)发表了声明，对这一报道进行了否认。
In the meantime, Indian news outlets have reported a series of leaked details about the case, including reports of a needle mark on Ms. Pushkar’s wrist, bruises on her body and anti-anxiety pills found by her bed.
与此同时，印度新闻机构对案件泄露出来的诸多细节进行了报道，比如普什卡尔腕部有一处针眼、身上有瘀伤，以及床边发现了抗焦虑药物。
The couple’s history has also been raked over. Mr. Tharoor and Ms. Pushkar wed in 2010, the third marriage for each of them, in the wake of a scandal that forced him to step down as a junior minister for foreign affairs. The scandal concerned allegations that he had improperly helped Ms. Pushkar obtain an ownership stake in a cricket franchise. Mr. Tharoor denied any financial wrongdoing.
这对夫妇的故事也被翻了个底朝天。塔鲁尔和普什卡尔于2010年成婚，是彼此的第三次婚姻。此前不久，塔鲁尔刚因一桩丑闻而被迫卸下外交部副部长的职务。丑闻涉及的指控是，他不恰当地帮助普什卡尔获得了一家板球企业的所有权股份。塔鲁尔否认其间有任何经济违法行为。
A particularly communicative politician on social media, Mr. Tharoor reacted to the police announcement on Tuesday with a post on his Facebook page.
塔鲁尔一直在社交媒体上异常活跃。警方发表声明后，他周二在自己的Facebook页面上发帖予以了回应。