PUNE, India — For nearly three decades, an earnest man named Narendra Dabholkar traveled from village to village in India, waging a personal war against the spirit world.
印度浦那——将近30年来，一位名为纳伦德拉·达博尔卡(Narendra Dabholkar)的热心人走访了印度的一个又一个村子，向鬼神的世界发动了一场一个人的战争。
If a holy man had electrified the public with his miracles, Dr. Dabholkar, a former physician, would duplicate the miracles and explain, step by step, how they were performed. If a sorcerer had amassed a fortune treating infertility, he would arrange a sting operation to unmask the man as a fraud. His goal was to drive a scientist’s skepticism into the heart of India, a country still teeming with gurus, babas, astrologers, godmen and other mystical entrepreneurs.
如果有“圣者”用奇迹激起公众的热情，曾任医师的达博尔卡就会重复这个奇迹，并一步一步地拆讲这是如何做到的。如果有巫师靠治疗不育者大发横财，他会安排一场请君入瓮的行动，拆穿那人骗子的面具。他的目标是把科学家式的怀疑精神注入印度人心中。在这里，各种宗教权威、灵魂大师、占星术士、神棍和其他各类靠神秘学发财的人仍然层出不穷。
That mission ended Tuesday, when two men ran up behind Dr. Dabholkar, 67, as he crossed a bridge, shot him at point-blank range, then jumped onto a motorbike and disappeared into the traffic coursing through this city.
周二，他的使命停止了。67岁的达博尔卡从一座桥上走过时，两名男子从他身后赶上来，近距离朝他开枪，然后跳上了摩托车，消失在川行于城市中的车流里。
Dr. Dabholkar’s killing is the latest episode in a millenniums-old wrestling match between traditionalists and reformers in India. When detectives began putting together a list of Dr. Dabholkar’s enemies, they found that it was long. He had received threats from Hindu far-right groups, been beaten by followers of angry gurus and challenged by councils upholding archaic caste laws. His home state, Maharashtra, was considering legislation he had promoted for 14 years, banning a list of practices like animal sacrifice, the magical treatment of snake bites and the sale of magic stones.
达博尔卡的遇害是上千年来印度传统派与革新者之间角力的最新一幕。警探收集达博尔卡敌对者的名录时，发现这份名单开得很长。他曾经收到过印度教极右团体的威胁，遭到过愤怒的宗教权威手下信众的殴打，还受到墨守旧时种姓法律的长老团的挑战。他的故乡马哈拉施特拉邦(Maharashtra)正在审议一项立法，禁止一系列迷信行为，如牲祭、用巫术治疗蛇咬伤和贩售魔法石等。
In the rush of emotion that followed Dr. Dabholkar’s death, the state’s governor on Saturday signed the so-called anti-black magic bill into force as an ordinance. But Dr. Dabholkar never put stock in sudden breakthroughs, said his son, Hamid Dabholkar, as mourners filtered through the family’s home. “He knew this kind of battle is fought across the ages,” he said. “The journey we have chosen is one that started with Copernicus. We have a very small life, of 70 to 80 years, and the kind of change we will see during that time will be small.”
在达博尔卡去世造成的强烈社会情绪下，该邦的邦长于周六签署了所谓的反对黑巫术法案，使之成为行政性命令。吊唁者徐徐穿过逝者家中时，达博尔卡的儿子哈米德·达博尔卡(Hamid Dabholkar)说道，其父从没有指望重大变革能突然降临。“他知道，这种斗争各个时代都在进行，”哈米德说。“我们选择的历程是从哥白尼(Copernicus)开始的。人生很短暂，只有七八十年，而这段时间内我们能见到的变化也很小。”
At Police Headquarters in Pune, the crime branch’s reception area was decorated with a painting of the elephant-headed Hindu god Ganesh, bedecked with garlands of fresh flowers and a revolving, multicolored flashing light. There was a slight smell of incense. The lead investigator in the Dabholkar case had been working until 4 a.m., the inspector on duty said, so he would not be in until noon. “Round-the-clock,” he repeated, reassuringly, when asked about the inquiry’s intensity.
在浦那的警察总部，刑侦部门的接待区挂着一幅印度教象头神“群主”(Ganesh)的画像，周围饰有鲜花花环，闪烁着多彩的旋转灯光。空气中有一丝焚香的气味。值班的警员称，达博尔卡案的调查组长一直工作到了凌晨4点，所以要等到中午才会来上班。在被问及调查工作的紧密程度时，他反复保证道，“夜以继日”。
The killers left behind a few pieces of evidence. Surveillance cameras show two men lurking around a bridge for nearly an hour before intercepting Dr. Dabholkar on his post-yoga morning walk. Friends and family described threats Dr. Dabholkar had received over the years from hard-line Hindu organizations.
杀人凶手留下了一些作案证据。监控摄像头显示，在达博尔卡清晨做完瑜伽之后去散步并被人拦住之前，有两个人在桥周围埋伏了近一个小时。亲友向警方描述了多年来印度教强硬派组织向达博尔卡发出的威胁。
The founder of one such group, Sanatan Sanstha, noting that he did not condone the killing, did not bother to feign sorrow over Dr. Dabholkar’s death.
一个此类组织“永恒学会”(Sanatan Sanstha)的创始人虽然称他们不能容忍杀人事件，但对达博尔卡之死没有丝毫哀悼的表示。
“Instead of dying of old age, or by surgery, which causes a lot of suffering, the death Mr. Dabholkar got today was a blessing from God,” the leader, a former hypnotherapist now known as His Holiness Dr. Jayant Athavale, wrote in an editorial in the organization’s publication, Sanatan Prabhat.
该组织现称为“尊者贾央特·阿塔瓦勒医师”(His Holiness Dr. Jayant Athavale)的领导人过去是一名催眠治疗师，他在该组织的刊物《永恒黎明》(Sanatan Prabhat)的一篇社评中写道，“与死于高龄或导致巨大痛苦的手术相比，达博尔卡先生今天的死是神的恩赐。”
With his unfashionable glasses and mild smile, Dr. Dabholkar fell into his region’s tradition of progressive social movements. An atheist, he quit practicing medicine at 40 to devote his life to activism. The room where he worked was bare but for a framed quote from Mahatma Gandhi. His wife, Shaila, recalled that her family had offered her an array of young men they considered marriageable, and she had chosen him for his idealism.
戴着土气的眼镜、脸上总挂着微笑的达博尔卡为家乡那种进步社会运动的传统所倾倒。身为无神论者，他在40岁时结束了行医生涯，投身于社会行动事业。他工作的房间里几乎空无一物，只挂着一副装框的圣雄甘地语录。他的妻子谢拉(Shaila)还记得，家人曾向她介绍了很多位被认为是合适结婚对象的男青年，但她选择了达博尔卡，为的是他身上的理想主义。
“We thought only about society, and that was what we spoke about,” she said. “Even though we were married, there was nothing like romance, or anything like that. Both of us were patriots of idealism. We wanted a good society.”
“我们想的只是社会，这也是我们所谈的话题，”她说道。“虽然我们结婚了，但我们之间没有什么‘浪漫’之类的东西。我们两人都是理想主义的爱国者。我们想要的就是良好的社会。”
Recently, Dr. Dabholkar had focused much of his energy on the anti-black magic bill, and he was frustrated that politicians were slow to embrace it. Shruti Tambe, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Pune, said it had run into various roadblocks — a rise in conservative thought among middle-class Hindus; the vested interests of castes that specialized in certain rituals. Then there was the difficulty of providing a legal definition of superstition. The list of banned activities grew shorter and shorter over the years, and now includes 16 items, among them “to perform magical rites in the name of supernatural power” and “to perform so-called black magic and spread fear in society.”
近来，达博尔卡把他的大部分精力投入到了《反黑巫术法案》上，因政客迟迟不肯接受它而恼火。浦那大学(University of Pune)社会学助理教授什露提·坦贝(Shruti Tambe)称，这项法案遭遇了几大障碍——中产阶级印度教徒中保守思想的兴起，专司某些宗教仪式的种姓手中的既得利益等。此外还有对迷信进行法律定义的困难。随着时间推移，被禁行为的清单越来越短，现在只包括16条，其中包括“以超自然力量之名，进行巫术仪式”和“进行所谓的黑巫术、在社会上散播恐慌”等。
Far-right Hindu groups were vehemently opposed. Shambhu S. Gaware, a spokesman for Sanatan Sanstha, who offered an interview after repeated phone calls, said early versions of the bill banned practices that cause bodily injury — which, he said, could be interpreted to include traditional fasting. Though many provisions have since been removed, the act is still vaguely worded and could be applied to legitimate religious practices, he said.
印度教极右团体激烈地反对他的社会运动。永恒学会的一位发言人沙姆布·S·加瓦勒(Shambhu S. Gaware)在多次电话邀请后接受采访表示，该法案最初版本禁止了造成身体伤害的行为——按他的说法，这可以解释为包括传统的斋戒。他表示，尽管很多条文随后被去掉了，但该法案仍然措辞含混，有可能被用来禁止正当的宗教行为。
The days since the killing have been tense for Sanatan Sanstha. There have been calls to ban the group, which has no official membership, since 2008, when people linked to it were convicted of bombing theaters. Mr. Gaware said investigators questioned eight of Sanatan Sanstha’s local members immediately after the killing, and have a list of 70 members they plan to interrogate. He said the members had cooperated fully.
达博尔卡被害后的日子让永恒学会感到紧张。2008年，与该组织有关的人员因制造剧场爆炸被定罪后，就一直有人呼吁查禁这个组织。这个组织没有正式的会员制度。加瓦勒称，达博尔卡被杀后，办案人员立刻盘问了当地八名永恒学会成员，并列出了接下来计划审讯的70个成员名单。他表示，这些组织成员与警方进行了充分的合作。
“Dr. Dabholkar was not a believer in God, and we are strong believers in God, so there is always a clash between our thoughts,” he said. “But we do not believe in violence. Whatever our differences with Dr. Dabholkar, we always choose legal means to oppose him.”
“达博尔卡不信神，但我们对神深信不疑，因此我们的思想总会有冲突，”他说道。“但我们不相信暴力。无论我们与达博尔卡有何等分歧，我们都会选择用合法的方式反对他。”
The police have begun questioning the leaders of criminal gangs in Pune, in hopes of identifying the crime’s mastermind, and are tracing more than 1,000 motorcycles with plate numbers similar to the assailants’, The Times of India reported Saturday.
《印度时报》(The Times of India)周六报道，警方已开始盘问浦那的犯罪团伙头目，希望查明罪案主使的身份，并开始追查超过1000辆与袭击者车牌号接近的摩托车。
In Pune, meanwhile, the secular and the spiritual strain against each other. Boys and men stopped at the spot on the bridge where Dr. Dabholkar was shot, fixing their gaze at the grayish stain on the cement. Rohit Shindey, 21, said that as a child, he had believed in “all the things in our religion that they would do that was rubbish, like babas and predictions.”
与此同时，浦那的世俗与宗教的力量仍在彼此角逐着。男孩和男人们驻足于达博尔卡遭枪击的地方，注视着水泥地上已经发灰的血迹。21岁的罗希特·欣戴(Rohit Shindey)说，孩提时他原本相信“我们宗教中所有的那些蠢事，比如什么灵魂大师和预知未来等等”。
Then, he said, Dr. Dabholkar gave a speech at his school. “He told us: ‘I am not saying there is no God. Believe in God. But do not keep any superstitions in your heart. Only God is in your heart,’ ” Mr. Shindey said.
然后，他说道，达博尔卡来他的学校举行了一场演讲。“他对我们说：‘我不是说世上并没有神。要相信神，但心中不能留有迷信。心中只应有神，’ ”欣戴说。