LEGIAN, Indonesia — They have defaced Britney Spears posters, denounced Pamela Anderson’s charitable work and threatened Lady Gaga and Miss World beauty pageant contestants. And now, hard-line Muslims in Indonesia, in concert with Islamic-based politicians, are eyeing new targets: Johnnie Walker, an award-winning local pilsner called Bintang, even the exotic drinks with cherries and little umbrellas favored by the country’s many international visitors.
印度尼西亚雷吉安——他们污损布兰妮·斯皮尔斯(Britney Spears)的海报，斥责帕梅拉·安德森(Pamela Anderson)的慈善行为，并向Lady Gaga和世界小姐(Miss World)选美大赛的选手发出威胁。而现在，印度尼西亚的穆斯林强硬派又同伊斯兰教选民支持的政界人士一道，瞄准了新的目标：尊尼威士忌(Johnnie Walker)、得过奖的印尼星星啤酒(Bintang)，甚至连深受许多外国游客喜爱的放着樱桃和小伞的鸡尾酒也没能幸免。
A draft bill submitted to Indonesia’s Parliament earlier this year that called for a ban on alcohol in the world’s largest Muslim-majority country has stirred unease among the country’s predominantly moderate Muslims and fear among those who make their living in tourism, from upscale hotels in the capital, Jakarta, to beach bars and theme restaurants on the resort island of Bali.
今年早些时候，一份递交至印尼国会的法律草案呼吁在这个世界上最大的穆斯林为主的国家禁酒。该草案在印尼占多数的穆斯林温和派中引发了不安，也让那些靠旅游业为生的商家感到恐慌，其中包括首都雅加达的高档酒店，以及度假圣地巴厘岛上的海滩酒吧和主题餐厅。
After an initial backlash, the Islamic-based United Development Party, or P.P.P., which drafted the measure, said it would scale back its goals and instead seek comprehensive regulations on the sale of alcohol.
遭到最初的强烈反对之后，起草法案的基于伊斯兰教的建设统一党（United Development Party，印尼语简称PPP）表示，它将降低目标，转而寻求对酒类销售进行全面监管。
But the party has not yet released a new version of the bill, and conservative Muslim groups said they would lobby hard for the tougher legislation during an expected debate in Parliament in the coming weeks.
不过，建设统一党尚未公开提案的新版本，而一些穆斯林保守组织称，它们会大力呼吁，在未来几周计划举行的国会辩论中推行更为严格的立法。
That has kept alive fears that, even in a country that has a long tradition of moderate Islam and is led by a secular government, a ban on alcohol could pass. Critics of a ban note a possible wild card: with elections scheduled for next year, legislators might be willing to back prohibition to appeal to conservative Islamic voters.
这让担忧持续存在：即使是在一个有着长久温和伊斯兰传统并由世俗政府统治的国家里，仍可能会通过禁酒令。批评禁令的人士提到，其中可能存在一种难以预料的影响因素：在选举将于明年举行的情况下，一些议员或许愿意支持禁酒令以争取伊斯兰保守派选民。
Before the 2009 election, a similar dynamic led to the passage of a controversial (and now lightly enforced) morality law that outlaws art, movies and music that “can arouse sexual desires and/or violate public moral values.” And last month, the government ordered that the finals of the Miss World pageant, which some Islamic groups denounced as immoral, be moved from the outskirts of Jakarta to predominantly Hindu Bali.
2009年的选举之前，在类似的形势之下，印尼通过了一项颇受争议（不过目前仅松散执行）的道德法。该法案规定，一切“可能刺激性欲以及/或者侵犯公共道德价值观”的艺术、电影和音乐均不合法。上个月，政府下令将世界小姐选美大赛的决赛从雅加达的郊区转移到印度教徒为主的巴厘岛，因为一些伊斯兰教群体谴责这项比赛不道德。
Nyoman Suwidjana, the secretary general of the Bali Tourism Board, said that criminalizing alcohol would have “a significant impact” on the economy of Bali, which is heavily dependent on the tourism industry and drew a record 2.9 million visitors in 2012.
巴厘旅游局(Bali Tourism Board)秘书长尼奥曼·苏维贾那(Nyoman Suwidjana)称，规定酒精不合法将对严重依赖旅游业的巴厘经济产生“重大影响”。2012年，当地吸引了创纪录的290万名游客。
“It’s not conceivable for one party to impose their values on others,” he said, noting that, in addition to foreign tourists, minority populations of Christians, Balinese Hindus and Buddhists in India do not consider alcohol taboo. “Could you imagine tourists sneaking in their own alcohol, just to have a good time?”
他说，“简直难以相信一个政党要将自身的价值观强加给别人。”他还指出，除了外国游客，印尼的少数群体基督徒、巴厘印度教徒，以及印度的佛教徒都不把酒视为禁忌。“你能想象游客自己偷偷带酒来，只为了玩得开心吗？”
The draft bill was quietly submitted to Parliament in January by the P.P.P., whose platform includes banning alcohol.
今年1月，建设统一党悄悄将法案草案提交至国会。该党的政治纲领中就包含禁酒的内容。
“It’s the aspiration of many regions, due to criminality, and health and social problems because of alcohol,” said Ahmad Yani, a P.P.P. lawmaker, who denied in an interview that the bill was related to the 2014 election season.
“这是许多地区的共同期许，因为饮酒造成了很多犯罪、健康和社会问题，”建设统一党议员艾哈迈德·亚尼(Ahmad Yani)称。接受访问时，亚尼否认禁酒法案与2014年的选举季有关。
No matter what happens with the legislation, Indonesia’s Islamic-led prohibition movement, which dates back decades, got a boost in July when the country’s Supreme Court announced it had overturned a 1997 presidential decree making it illegal for local governments to outlaw the production, sale or consumption of alcohol. The ruling upheld a challenge by the Islamic Defenders Front, a vigilante group known for occasionally smashing up bars that it views as affronts to Islam and forcibly closing Christian churches and the mosques of Muslim minorities.
无论这项提案能否通过，印尼由伊斯兰教徒领导的持续数十年的禁酒运动都在今年7月获得了鼓励。当时，印尼最高法院宣布推翻一项于1997年颁发的总统法令。该法令规定，地方政府禁止酒类生产、销售或消费的规定均属违法。这一裁定支持了伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线(Islamic Defenders Front)的上诉。该治安团体出名的原因是，它时而打砸它认为冒犯了伊斯兰教的酒吧，并强迫基督教教堂及穆斯林少数派的清真寺关门。
In 2006, the Islamic Defenders Front brought a legal complaint against the Indonesian edition of Playboy magazine, whose editor was later sentenced to prison for “public indecency,” even though the magazine did not show nudity. (The Supreme Court overturned that decision eight months later.) The Islamic Defenders Front and other hard-line groups also forced the cancellation of a Lady Gaga concert scheduled for Jakarta in 2012.
2006年，伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线对《花花公子》杂志(Playboy)印尼版提起法律诉讼。后来，该杂志的主编以“向公众散布猥亵图片”的罪名获刑，尽管它并没有发布裸体图片。（8个月后，最高法院推翻了这一判决。）伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线等强硬派团体还使一场原定于2012年在雅加达举行的Lady Gaga演唱会被迫取消。
“They use sensitive issues such as Lady Gaga or alcohol to consolidate themselves,” said Fajar Riza Ul Haq, executive director of the Maarif Institute, a nongovernmental organization that promotes religious tolerance.
“他们利用Lady Gaga或禁酒这样的敏感话题来加强自己的力量，”促进宗教宽容的非政府组织马里夫研究所(Maarif Institue)的执行主管法雅尔·勒扎·哈克(Fajar Riza Ul Haq)表示。
“These things are a very good opportunity for them to get publicity, and hopefully gain public support for what they do,” he said. Novel Haidar, secretary of the Jakarta chapter of the Islamic Defenders Front, said the prohibition drive was no publicity stunt, but a part of the group’s goal to turn Indonesia into an Islamic state.
“对他们来说，这些话题都是他们取得关注、并有可能为他们的事业获得公共支持的好机会，”哈克说。伊斯兰教捍卫者阵线雅加达分支的秘书长诺韦尔·海德尔(Novel Haidar)表示，禁酒运动并不是宣传把戏，而是该组织要将印尼变成一个伊斯兰教国家的目标中的组成部分。
“Alcohol brings more disadvantages than advantages,” Mr. Novel said in an interview. “Bali has other income than from just selling alcohol — beautiful attractions and wonderful hotels and resorts. Not having alcohol would make it better.”
“酒弊大于利，”诺韦尔接受采访说。“除了卖酒，巴厘还有其他的收入来源——比如吸引人的美景、上好的酒店和度假村。没有酒会变得更好。”
Nick Ryan, a 38-year-old electrician from Gold Coast, Australia, flatly disagreed. Sitting at the Sunset Bar at Legian Beach, in southern Bali, with a Bintang beer within reach, he grimaced when told of efforts to ban alcohol across Indonesia. “I’d never come here again,” he said.
来自澳大利亚黄金海岸的38岁电气技师尼克·瑞安(Nick Ryan)直截了当地表达了不同意见。瑞安坐在巴厘岛南部雷吉安海滩的日落酒吧，身旁放着一瓶星星啤酒。当被告知在印尼全国禁酒的相关努力后，他做了个苦脸。“那样的话，我再也不来这儿了，”他说。
His wife, Kym, 38, a travel agent, said she would find it difficult to explain to her clients that they could spend money for a flight and hotel room, but not have a glass of wine with dinner. “You would find they would go elsewhere, like Thailand, if they couldn’t sit by a pool and have a drink,” she said.
瑞安的妻子、38岁的基姆(Kym)是名旅游中介。她说自己会觉得难以向客户解释，为什么他们要花钱飞到这儿、住进宾馆，却不能在吃晚饭时喝杯葡萄酒。“你会发现，他们会去别的地方，比如泰国，如果他们不能坐在游泳池边喝酒的话，”基姆说。
Lying on the beach, Anna Duron, 35, a tourist from France, compared banning alcohol in Indonesia to “shooting yourself in the foot.”
来自法国的游客、35岁的安娜·杜龙(Anna Duron)躺在海滩上，将印尼的禁酒比作“搬起石头砸自己的脚”。
“Why would they want to do that?” she said. “Is there a real social issue behind it?”
“他们为什么要这么做呢？”她说。“在这背后有实际的社会问题吗？”
“What I love about Indonesia is that it makes space for Islam, but it’s also open to other religions,” she said.
“我爱印尼的地方就在于，它允许伊斯兰教的存在，但同时也对其他宗教开放，”杜龙说。
Alessandro Migliore, chairman of the Bali Hotels Association, said he could not imagine the effect on Bali if an alcohol ban were passed.
巴厘酒店协会(Bali Hotels Association)的主席亚历山德罗·米廖雷(Alessandro Migliore)称，他不能想象，如果禁酒令通过将对巴厘带来何种影响。
“Most Indonesians do not agree with these groups behind it, but the silent majority just keeps silent,” he said.
“很多印尼人和倡导禁酒令的群体意见不一致，但沉默的大多数只是保持沉默，”米廖雷说。