The children complained that the free lunch at their state school — rice, beans, potato curry and soy balls — tasted odd. The cook gave it a taste, too. Within half an hour they all began to suffer severe stomach pains followed by vomiting and diarrhea, and within hours at least 22 of the children were dead and dozens of others remained hospitalized, said officials in the northeastern state of Bihar.
孩子们抱怨他们那家公立学校的免费午餐味道很奇怪。午餐包括米饭、豆类、咖喱土豆和大豆丸子。厨师也尝了一下。印度东北部比哈尔邦的官员称，不到半个小时，所有人都出现了严重的胃痛，接着又开始上吐下泻。几小时之内，至少22名学生死亡，另有几十个孩子仍在医院接受治疗。
By nightfall on Wednesday, as angry protests broke out, officials said they believed they had found the cause: cooking oil stored in a container formerly used for insecticides.
截至周三傍晚，愤怒的抗议爆发之后，官员称他们相信已经找到了原因：装食用油的容器之前装过杀虫剂。
School lunch programs became universal in India after a 2001 order by the country’s Supreme Court, and free meals are now served to 120 million children — by far the largest such program in the world. It has been credited with improving school attendance, sometimes substantially. With some surveys suggesting that nearly half of Indian children suffer some form of malnutrition, it also serves a vital health purpose.
印度最高法院(Supreme Court)于2001年颁下命令之后，学校午餐项目变得无处不在，现在有1.2亿孩子享受免费午餐，这也是迄今全球最大的此类项目。人们认为免费午餐项目提高了学校的出勤率，提高的幅度有时候还很大。鉴于一些调查表明印度有近半数孩子存在某种形式的营养不良，该项目也有着至关重要的健康意义。
But like so many government programs in India, it is plagued by corruption and mismanagement, and cases of tainted food are fairly routine.
然而，和印度的众多政府项目一样，该项目深受腐败和管理不善的困扰，食物污染的案例也很常见。
Also Wednesday, for example, 50 children in a school in the nearby Madhubani District reported falling ill after eating a school lunch that some complained contained a dead lizard, though all were sent home from a nearby clinic after a few hours of observation, said Lokesh Kumar Singh, the chief civil servant of the district.
比如，同样是在周三，附近的马杜巴尼区首席公务员洛克什·库马尔·辛格(Lokesh Kumar Singh)说，该区一所学校有50名学生报告称，自己在吃了学校的午餐后生了病，一些孩子还抱怨说，午餐里有一只死了的蜥蜴。不过，在附近的一家诊所接受了几个小时的观察后，所有人都被送回了家。
While it is still not entirely clear what happened in the village of Dharmasati Gandawa in Bihar’s Saran district, some element of cronyism may have been involved. As news of the tragedy spread, the school’s principal, who had bought the cooking oil from a store owned by her husband, disappeared and has not been seen since, officials said.
目前还不完全清楚，比哈尔邦萨兰区塔尔马萨提·干达瓦(Dharmasati Gandawa)村究竟发生了什么，尽管如此，此事或许与任人唯亲的做法有关。官员称，这起悲剧的消息传开之后，那所学校的校长消失了，自那以后再也没有人看到过她。正是这位校长从她丈夫经营的店铺里购买了食用油。
But the episode also laid bare the almost complete failure of the state medical system to deal effectively with the crisis. Parents recounted nightmarish tales of sickness and desperate efforts to find medical care in facilities that were rapidly overwhelmed by the sheer numbers of children affected.
不过，这起事件还暴露了一个事实，那就是公立医疗体系几乎完全不能有效地应对危机。家长们叙述了噩梦般的经历，关于孩子的症状，以及在相关机构寻求治疗的绝望努力，中毒的孩子太多，那些机构很快就忙不过来了。
Akilanand Mishra, the father of Ashish Kumar Mishra, 5, said he raced to the school after a neighbor told him something was wrong there.
阿基拉南德·米什拉(Akilanand Mishra)是5岁的阿希什·库马尔·米什拉(Ashish Kumar Mishra)的父亲，他说，邻居告诉他出了事之后，他迅速赶到了学校。
“I saw my son walking towards home, and I brought him back home quickly and took my bike and rushed him to the health center,” Mr. Mishra said in a telephone interview.
“我看到儿子正朝家走，赶紧把他带回了家，又取来自行车载着他去了卫生院，”米什拉在接受电话采访时说。
During the trip, Ashish started throwing up, Mr. Mishra said. They arrived at the nearby primary health center and found it mobbed with children and families. There was only one doctor, and he began pleading with parents to take their children to the district government hospital.
米什拉说，阿希什在去卫生院的途中开始呕吐。抵达附近的初级卫生院后，他们发现那里挤满了孩子和孩子的家人。那里只有一名医生，于是他开始和其他家长一起请求把他们的孩子送到政府开办的区医院。
Mr. Mishra instead took his son to a nearby private clinic, which was similarly overrun with patients and panicked parents. By then, Ashish was suffering near-constant vomiting and diarrhea and was beginning to lose consciousness, Mr. Mishra said. The doctor (the vast majority of health care practitioners in India have no formal training whatsoever) injected the boy with something and insisted that he be taken to the government hospital.
不过，米什拉转而把儿子送到了附近的一家私人诊所，那里同样挤满了病人和惊恐万分的家长。米什拉说，到那时，阿希什几乎是在一刻不停地呕吐和腹泻，而且开始失去知觉。那里的一名医生（印度卫生保健业的绝大部分从业者都没有接受过任何正规培训）给这个男孩注射了点什么东西，并坚持要求把孩子送去政府开办的医院。
Instead, Mr. Mishra rushed to another nearby private clinic, which was also overrun. A government ambulance appeared, but there was no room for Ashish. So Mr. Mishra flagged down a private vehicle. They set off for the hospital, but after a few miles Ashish died in Mr. Mishra’s arms.
米什拉没有听他的，匆忙赶去了附近的另一家私人诊所，那里同样人满为患。一辆政府的救护车出现了，但却没有阿希什的位置。于是，米什拉招手叫来了一辆私家车。他们动身前往政府开办的医院，然而，走了几英里之后，阿希什死在了米什拉的怀里。
“My son died around 4 p.m., and he was the second child to die,” said a weeping Mr. Mishra. “It was poison that the children ate, not food. Food contamination doesn’t happen that fast. It was poison.”
米什拉抽泣着说，“我儿子死的时候大约是下午四点，他是第二个死去的孩子。孩子们吃的是毒药，不是食物。食物中毒不会发作得那么快。那是毒药。”
Bacterial contamination, a common problem in India, generally takes at least a day to cause serious illness. Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety for the Center for Science in the Public Interest in Washington, said such episodes tend to happen in places where few things are thrown away, including containers. “Insecticide containers need to be marked that they should never be used again for food,” she said. “These kind of incidents are rare, and they are tragic when they happen.”
细菌污染在印度是一个普遍问题，通常要到至少一天之后才会引发严重的疾病。华盛顿公共利益科学中心(Center for Science in the Public Interest)食品安全主管卡罗琳·史密斯·德瓦尔(Caroline Smith DeWaal)说，这种事件往往发生在人们几乎不会扔掉任何东西的地方，包括容器。她说，“杀虫剂容器应该打上决不能再盛放食物的标识。此类事件相当少见，一旦发生就是悲剧。”
By Wednesday, enraged residents of the village where the children were sickened began throwing rocks and sticks at government buildings, and burned four police vehicles. No one was hurt, said Shashi Singh, the village head.
截至周三，在患病儿童所在的村子，愤怒的居民开始向政府大楼投掷石头和棍棒，并焚烧了四辆警车。村长沙希·辛格(Shashi Singh)说，没有人受伤。
Officials said it was extremely difficult to maintain tight control of such a sprawling food program, one administered by so many people at the local level.
官员们说，要严格控制如此巨大的食品项目是极为困难的，地方层面有无数的人在对这个计划指手画脚。
“It is a very daunting task to provide freshly cooked quality meals in 73,000 schools,” said P. K. Shahi, minister of human resource development in Bihar. Many are involved in managing the food programs, including teachers, village elders and state officials, he said.
比哈尔邦人力资源发展部部长P·K·夏希(P. K. Shahi)说，“为7.3万所学校提供新鲜烹制的合格餐食是一项极其艰巨的责任。”他说，许多人都参与了食品项目的管理，包括教师、村里的长者和政府官员。
“All these people look for easy money, and there is very little scope of making money without compromising the quality and quantity,” Mr. Shahi said. “It is just not possible to taste meals in all the 73,000 schools before children eat the food.”
夏希说，“这些人都在找机会发不义之财，如果不降低食品的质量和数量，那就几乎没有挣钱的余地。我们确实不可能在7.3万所学校的儿童吃饭之前，试吃所有的餐食。”
The episode also demonstrates the appalling state of food safety and medical care in India. Since nearly all municipal water supplies are contaminated, food poisoning is routine. Government hospital and clinics are almost universally inadequate and in disrepair.
此次事件还突显了印度令人惊骇的食品安全和医疗状况。由于几乎所有的市政供水都遭到了污染，食物中毒已成常态。各地普遍存在政府医院和诊所稀缺及失于维护的情况。
Mr. Mishra complained bitterly about the runaround he got from government doctors. Dr. Shambhu Nath Singh, deputy superintendent of the government hospital in the Saran district, said many of the children who eventually found their way to his hospital were transferred to a hospital in the state capital, Patna, after parents complained that their children failed to improve. But he said the care he and his team delivered was top-notch.
米什拉激烈地抨击了政府医生推诿塞责的行为。萨兰地区政府医院副院长尚布拉尔·纳特·辛格(Shambhu Nath Singh)博士说，许多最终找上门来的孩子都被转移到了位于邦首府巴特那的一所医院，原因是父母们抱怨自家孩子的病情没有好转。但他说，他和他的团队实施的救治是一流的。
“We were fully prepared to treat them, and we did so,” Dr. Singh said. “The patients were improving, but after some time they started deteriorating. That’s a standard pattern to these kind of poisonings, but some local politicians started shouting and provoked the people so we had to transfer them.”
辛格说，“我们做好了救治他们的充分准备，我们也这么做了。病人的情况开始改善，可是过了一会，他们的病情又开始恶化。对此类中毒病症来说，这是一种正常情况，可是一些地方政客开始大呼小叫地煽动民众，于是我们不得不转移病人。”
Two children died during the trip to Patna, Dr. Singh said.
辛格博士说，在去往巴特那的途中，有两名儿童死亡。
The local police opened an investigation into the episode and were continuing the search for the school’s principal, Abhijit Sinha, the district’s chief civil servant, said in a phone interview.
该区的首席公务员在一次电话采访中说，当地警方已对此次事件展开调查，并且在继续搜寻学校校长阿布希吉特·辛哈(Abhijit Sinha)。
The episode could have national political repercussions. Bihar’s chief minister, Nitish Kumar, recently ended an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party in an acrimonious parting of ways. He is now being wooed as a potential ally by the ruling Indian National Congress Party in advance of elections next year. Mr. Kumar has long been viewed as bringing fairly good governance to Bihar after decades of colossal mismanagement. This poisoning could tarnish that reputation.
此次事件可能会引发全国性的政治反响。最近，比哈尔邦首席部长尼蒂什·库马尔(Nitish Kumar)以激烈的方式和印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)分道扬镳，由此中止了与后者的联盟。现在，把他视为潜在盟友的印度执政党国民大会党(National Congress Party)正抢在明年选举之前拉拢他。长期以来，外界一直认为，在经历了数十年的极度管理混乱之后，库马尔对比哈尔邦进行了相当不错的治理。这次的中毒事件可能会损害他的名望。