A federal grand jury in Manhattan returned an indictment on Thursday against the Indian diplomat whose arrest last month in New York on a visa fraud charge led to public protests in India and criticism of the United States by officials there. The indictment, handed up in Federal District Court, charges the diplomat, Devyani Khobragade, 39, with the same counts — visa fraud and making false statements — that she faced in a criminal complaint issued by prosecutors in December in connection with her treatment of a domestic worker in New York.
周四，曼哈顿的一个联邦大陪审团发回了针对一名印度外交官的起诉书。上月，这名外交官因涉嫌签证欺诈而在纽约被捕，引发了印度国内民众的抗议，以及印度官员对美国的谴责。被递交到联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)的这份起诉书指控39岁的印度外交官德芙雅尼·霍布拉加德(Devyani Khobragade)犯有签证欺诈和捏造虚假声明的罪行，罪名与她在12月的一起刑事诉讼中面临的罪名相同。检方12月提起的那起刑事诉讼与她在纽约对待一名家政工作人员的方式有关。
But it offers new detail about the case, including accusations that Ms. Khobragade and others tried to “silence and intimidate the victim and her family and lie to Indian authorities and courts.” The decision by Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, to seek the indictment indicated that negotiations over a possible plea had broken down.
不过，起诉书提供了关于这起案件的新细节，其中包括对霍布拉加德和其他一些人试图“恐吓受害人及其家人让其噤声，并向印度当局和法院撒谎”的指控。纽约南区联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)寻求起诉的决定表明，围绕控辩交易的谈判已经破裂。
But a separate letter from prosecutors to a judge also suggested that an understanding had been reached in which Ms. Khobragade was granted diplomatic immunity by the State Department and would be able to avoid facing charges in court.
但是，检方单独写给一名法官的信表明，双方已达成谅解，霍布拉加德从国务院(State Department)得到了外交豁免权，能避免在法庭上受到指控。
Late Monday night, Mr. Bharara’s office disclosed in a court filing that it had participated with the defense in “hours of discussion in the hope of negotiating a plea.” As recently as last Saturday, the government said, it “outlined reasonable parameters for a plea that could resolve the case, to which the defendant has not responded.”
周一晚，巴拉拉的办公室在一份法庭文件中披露，他们和辩方进行了“数小时的讨论，以期达成控辩交易”。直到上周六，政府仍然宣称，政府“为解决本案的控辩交易列出了合理的条件，被告没有对此作出回应。”
Ms. Khobragade’s lawyer, Daniel N. Arshack, had said in an earlier filing that there were “significant communications” with prosecutors, but in a letter on Tuesday, he disputed the characterization of them as plea discussions.
霍布拉加德的律师丹尼尔·N·阿沙克(Daniel N. Arshack)在先前的一份文件中表示，他们和检方保持着“重要的沟通”，不过，在周二的一封信中，他驳斥了外界把此类沟通列为控辩交易讨论的说法。
Mr. Arshack has said the charges are “false and baseless.”
阿沙克曾表示，针对霍布拉加德的指控是“不实的，毫无根据的”。
Late Thursday afternoon there was confusion over Ms. Khobragade’s whereabouts. Mr. Bharara’s office said in a letter to a federal judge that she “departed the United States today.” But soon after, Mr. Arshack said, “Preet Bharara is wrong in saying that she left the country.” Mr. Arshack added, “She is in her apartment with her children.”
周四傍晚，霍布拉加德的行踪导致了一些混乱。巴拉拉办公室在致联邦法官的一封信中说，她“已于本日离开美国”。不过，阿沙克不久之后即表示，“普里特·巴拉拉说科布拉加德离开美国是错误的”。阿沙克还说，“她和子女待在自己的公寓里。”
A little later prosecutors issued a short statement saying Mr. Arshack had informed them that Ms. Khobragade had not left the United States.
之后不久，检方发表了简短的声明，说阿沙克已经通知他们，霍布拉加德没有离开美国。