GHANAUR, India — THE hulking power plant set against the green countryside of Punjab state in northwest India does not look like a source of renewable energy. Yet filling its stockyard, instead of mounds of coal, are bales of rice straw. Machines break up the heavy straw cubes as men with pitchforks hoist fibrous mounds onto a conveyor belt leading to the power plant. Handkerchiefs cover their faces to protect them from dust swirling in the air.
印度甘瑙尔——外表看来，坐落在印度西北部旁遮普邦乡村绿野间的这座庞大发电厂并不像是会产出可再生能源的地方。不过，把料场塞得满满当当的，并不是成堆的煤炭，而是一捆捆的稻草。机器将压成厚块的稻草切开，男工用草叉将一堆堆草举到通往电厂的传送带上。他们的脸上遮着手帕，为的是免受空气中扬尘的侵害。
This is Punjab Biomass Power, a plant near the village of Ghanaur that collects the straw collected from farmers tilling the lush fields of the surrounding countryside. After harvest, they would normally burn this agricultural waste, inedible to people and animals, to clear fields for wheat crops, as farmers across India do, and in that way contribute to the country’s dire air pollution. But at Punjab Biomass, 120,000 tons of rice straw a year are instead burned to generate 12 megawatts of electricity for the state’s power grid.
这里是旁遮普生物质发电厂(Punjab Biomass Power)，坐落在甘瑙尔村附近，工人在周边乡间的茂密农田里搜集农夫留下的稻草。收割之后，后者一般会像全印度的务农者一样，燃烧这种无法供人畜食用的农业废弃物，清理出土地播种小麦，这已成为印度严重空气污染的来源之一。但在旁遮普生物质发电厂，每年有12万吨的稻草被用来燃烧发电，为印度电网贡献1.2万千瓦的电量。
The plant produces emissions, although its filters reduce the amount that outdoor burning would generate. But such biomass energy in theory is considered carbon-neutral because of what these plants use as fuel — like sugar cane pulp and nut shells that took carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere as it grew. Biomass power plants are eligible for carbon credits that translate into cash, and Punjab Biomass hopes to eventually earn hundreds of thousands of dollars a year from the plant.
该厂也产生排放，尽管过滤装置会使其低于户外燃烧的排放量。不过，此类生物质能源理论上被认为能够实现碳中和，因为甘蔗渣和果壳等植物燃料，在生长过程中曾从大气中吸收二氧化碳。生物质发电厂有资格获得可转化为资金的碳信用额度，而旁遮普的这家电厂希望，最终能从中获取数十万美元的年收入。
Yet biomass is far from a solution to the enormous energy needs of India and its 1.2 billion people. Alternative energy, like wind, biomass and solar, accounted for less than 8 percent of India’s power generation in 2009. Still, because India imports about 70 percent of its oil and natural gas and relies on coal for more than half of its electricity generation, it must consider all options for energy.
然而，生物质远不能满足印度及其12亿民众巨大的能源需求。2009年，风能、生物质能和太阳能等新能源占印度总发电量不到8%。虽说如此，由于70%左右的油气源于进口，一半以上的发电量又依赖煤炭，印度必须考虑各种能源。
In April, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called for a doubling of India’s nonconventional energy supply, including biomass, from 25,000 megawatts in 2012 to 55,000 megawatts by 2017. “Energy is both scarce and expensive and yet it is vital for development,” said Mr. Singh at the Clean Energy Ministerial in New Delhi. Developing countries “have to expand all sources of supply, including both conventional and nonconventional energy,” he said.
今年4月，印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)呼吁，印度要将包括生物质能在内的非常规能源供应翻番，从2012年的2500万千瓦提升至2017年的5500万千瓦。辛格在新德里举办的清洁能源部长级会议(Clean Energy Ministerial)上发言，“能源稀缺而昂贵，但对发展至关重要。”他还表示，发展中国家“必须扩大各种能源供应，包括常规与非常规能源”。
Agricultural waste in India is abundant, since roughly 60 percent of its population relies on agriculture for a living. Sunil Dhingra, a senior fellow at the Energy Resources Institute (TERI), a Delhi-based policy center, estimated that India produced 600 million tons of such “agro-waste” each year, 150 to 200 tons of which are not used. This is “a big resource that needs to be channelized,” he said.
由于印度约60%的人口务农为生，该国有充足的农业废弃物。苏尼尔·丁格拉(Sunil Dhingra)在位于德里的政策中心能源研究所(Energy Resources Institute)任高级研究员。据他估算，印度每年产出6亿吨此类“农业废弃物”，其中1.5亿至2亿吨未加利用。他表示，这是“尚待寻找出路的一大资源”。
Some European countries have already successfully harnessed biomass energy. In Finland, biomass such as leaves and wood from its abundant, managed forest industry accounts for 20 percent of the energy supply, according to the European Biomass Industry Association. Sixteen percent of Sweden’s energy comes from biomass. And nearly half of upper Austria’s renewable energy comes from biomass; the region aims to use renewable energy for all of its heat and energy demand by 2030.
一些欧洲国家已成功地利用了生物质能。欧洲生物质工业协会(European Biomass Industry Association)的数据显示，在芬兰，出产丰富且管理良好的林业提供的叶子和木材等生物质占到总能源供应的20%。瑞典16%的能源来自生物质。在上奥地利州，近一半的可再生能源来自生物质；该州的目标是，到2030年采用可再生能源满足所有的供暖和能源需求。
Punjab Biomass began operations in November 2010 after converting the existing coal power plant at the site, an option less expensive than building a new plant or solar or wind farm. In Britain and other parts of Europe, some coal-fired plants are converting to biomass to comply with new European environmental regulations, said David Hostert, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.
旁遮普生物质发电厂自2010年11月开始运行，是由原址上已有的燃煤发电站改造而成，相对于新建一座生物质电厂或太阳能和风力发电场，这种做法投入较少。伦敦彭博新能源财经(Bloomberg New Energy Finance)的分析师戴维·霍斯泰特(David Hostert)表示，在英国和欧洲其他地方，一些煤电站正在被改造成生物质发电厂，以符合欧洲新的环保规定。
In India, biomass has the potential to generate at least 18,000 megawatts of electricity, according to the country’s Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Biomass energy can be produced through big power plants but also in small, rural gasifiers for grass-roots industries like brick kilns. Mr. Dhingra of TERI estimated that there were 800 to 900 biomass power plants and 3,000 small thermal gasifiers across India.
印度新能源与可再生能源部(Ministry of New and Renewable Energy)表示，该国的生物质总量至少能生产出1800万千瓦的电。生物质能既可以通过大型发电厂生产，也可以用农村地区的小型气化炉来生产，供应像煤窑那样的基础性工业。能源研究所的丁格拉估计，在印度各地共有800到900座生物质发电厂和3000个小型的生物质气化炉。
Biomass energy also generates extra income for Indian farmers. Punjab Biomass pays 15,000 farmers about 500 rupees, about $8, per acre of rice straw that would otherwise be burned.
生物质能还可以为印度农民带来额外的收入。旁遮普生物质发电厂以每英亩500卢比（约合50元人民币）的价格向1.5万名农民收购稻草，不然这些稻草会被烧掉。
But there are many challenges to expanding biomass energy, especially collecting, storing and transporting the agricultural waste to power plants. Most farms are fragmented, without organized disposal operations, so energy companies need fleets of threshers and tractors to collect agro-waste from fields. Enough fodder to run a power plant for 11 months must be collected and stored. Punjab Biomass runs mainly on rice straw, but it is considering other agro-waste unfit for livestock, like corn and cotton stalks and sugar cane waste to supplement its current supply.
但是发展中的生物质能行业也面临着许多挑战，特别是在农业废料的收集、存储和运输环节。多数耕地都是分散的，没有统一的废料处理手段，因此能源公司需要大批脱粒机和拖拉机，以从田间地头收集农业废料。一座生物质发电厂必须收集和存储足够11个月运行的原料。旁遮普生物质发电厂主要烧稻草，但也在考虑利用其他无法用于牲畜的农业废料，如玉米杆、棉秆和甘蔗渣，来补充它现有的原料供应。
Biomass is stored in enormous depots and must be kept dry even in India’s heavy rains. Companies must get clearance for large swaths of land to store fodder — no easy task in bureaucratic India. Murad Ali Baig, director of Bermaco Energy Systems, one of the partners in the Punjab plant, admitted that getting the plant running “should have taken 18 months but took four years.” The logistics of storing and transporting fodder and maintaining fuel-guzzling equipment is far more complicated than it seems in unpredictable India. “It’s been bloody hard work,” said Mr. Baig.
生物质原料必须存储在大型的仓库内，即便是在印度下大雨的时候也必须保持干燥。要利用大片土地存储原料，公司必须取得许可，这在官僚主义严重的印度来说绝非易事。旁遮普电厂股东之一的博马克能源系统公司(Bermaco Energy Systems)的董事穆拉德·阿里·拜格(Murad Ali Baig)承认，启动电厂“本应需要18个月，但却花了四年时间”。在印度许多事情都难以预料，与存储、运输原料相关的物流运作，以及对耗电设备的维护都远比看起来要复杂。拜格说，“真是难得要命。”
The company is operationally profitable, but still has losses from its first couple of years of business. Still, the company aims to build eight more rice-straw energy plants in Punjab state to generate 96 megawatts of electricity by 2017. Across India, Bermaco hopes to set up about 20 biomass plants generating 240 megawatts during the next three years and about 1,000 megawatts in the next six years.
从运营的角度来看，这家公司是有利可图的，但最初几年的经营仍然亏损。公司还计划在旁遮普邦再建八座烧稻草的电厂，到2017年发电量将达到9.6万千瓦。博马克希望在印度各地建起20座生物质发电厂，未来三年内的发电量达到24万千瓦，六年内达到100万千瓦。
While there is potential for biomass energy in India, the country lacks the efficiency, logistical infrastructure and investments of countries like Finland. There, the public and private sector have invested heavily in research and development. Huge warehouses store leaves and wood to ensure steady, efficient supplies of fodder from well-managed forests.
虽然印度有潜力发展生物质能源，但比起芬兰，它缺乏所需的效率、物流基础设施和投资。在芬兰，公共和私营领域都已在研发方面投入了大量资金。巨大的仓库可以存储来自管理有序的林地的叶子和木头，保障稳定有效的原料供应。
In India, biomass “is low-tech, but let’s invest, like the example we’ve seen in Europe,” Mr. Dhingra of TERI, said. “Industry, academia and government all work on one platform there. You don’t see that happening here.”
能源研究所的丁格拉表示，在印度，生物质“科技含量不高，但是让我们像欧洲那样进行投资吧。在欧洲，行业、学界和政府都在同样的原则框架下共同努力。你在这里却看不到那样的情形。”