PORT BLAIR, India — After scouring more than 24,000 nautical square miles, India on Sunday suspended its search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in the waters around the isolated Andaman and Nicobar Islands chain while officials in Kuala Lumpur consider where else to search.
印度布莱尔港——周日，就在马来西亚官员考虑在更多区域搜索马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370次客机的时候，印度暂停了对安达曼和尼科巴群岛附近海域的搜索，在此之前，印度已经搜索了超过2.4万平方海里的区域。
“We’re taking a temporary pause,” said a senior Indian military official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized to discuss the search publicly. “We are conserving our resources so that we can renew the hunt with great vigor.”
一名印度高级军官说，“我们只是暂停了搜索。我们在节省自己的人力物力，以便以充沛的精力投入下一次搜索。”这名军官由于未获得公开讨论搜索任务的授权，要求匿名。
Four Indian military ships and six aircraft have spent most of the past four days scanning huge expanses of ocean on both sides of the Andamans, of which Port Blair is the capital. Malaysian officials believe that Flight 370 was deliberately flown off course, and one theory has been that it was headed toward the island chain.
过去四天里，四艘印度军舰和六架飞机搜索了安达曼群岛两岸广阔的海域，布莱尔港是安达曼群岛的首都。马来西亚官员认为，370次客机受人为操纵偏离了航线，有一种推论是飞机飞向了安达曼群岛。
But the Andamans are not on either of the two vast corridors of territory where the Malaysian authorities now believe the plane ended up, based on its last transmission to a satellite at 8:11 a.m. on March 8.
不过，根据飞机在3月8日上午8:11分向卫星传输的最后信号，马来西亚当局如今确信，飞机最终的位置是在两片范围广阔的走廊地带，而安达曼群岛不在其中。
There are hundreds of deserted tropical islands in this area, and nighttime radar coverage of the skies is not always robust, military officials said. So it is possible that a Boeing 777 could have flown over the area and perhaps crashed on or near an uninhabited island without being noticed, officials said. But India’s military has done such a thorough search of the region since Wednesday that such a scenario, always unlikely, has become almost impossible to believe, officials said.
军官们说，这一区域散落着数百座荒无人烟的热带岛屿，夜间雷达对这片空域的覆盖不会一直很活跃。所以，军官们说，那架波音777客机有可能飞过了这片区域，或许坠毁在某个无人居住的岛屿或附近，也没有人注意到。不过，军官们说，自上周三以来，印度军方就对这片区域进行了极为彻底的搜索，人们很难相信，真的出现了这种原本就不太可能发生的情况。