MUMBAI, India — With a cantor singing a benediction, more than two dozen black-hatted rabbis from around the world arrived here Tuesday to reopen a Jewish center attacked and gutted during a 2008 killing rampage by Pakistani gunmen.
印度孟买——领唱者唱起颂歌，20多名来自世界各地的头戴黑帽的拉比于周二抵达孟买，参加一个犹太人中心的重新开放的活动。在2008年的杀戮中，巴基斯坦枪手攻击并摧毁了该中心。
Men from Chabad-Lubavitch, a Brooklyn-based Hasidic group, carried a large Torah into the building to officially mark the center’s rebirth and memorialize Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and his wife, Rivka Holtzberg, who ran the center and were killed along with four guests during the 60-hour siege. More than 160 people were killed in the Mumbai attacks when gunmen trained by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group, alighted from boats and stormed two hotels, a railroad station, a restaurant and a hospital, along with the Jewish center.
总部位于布鲁克林的哈西德派组织Chabad-Lubavitch（犹太教正统派的一个组织——译注）的成员携带大本《托拉》(Torah)进入该建筑，正式庆祝该中心重新开放，同时纪念中心的前负责人拉比加伏里尔·霍尔茨贝里(Gavriel Holtzberg)和妻子丽芙卡·霍尔茨贝里(Rivka Holtzberg)，夫妇二人和四名访客在那场长达60小时的围攻中丧命。当时，巴基斯坦激进组织“虔诚军”(Lashkar-e-Taiba)训练的枪手在孟买发起攻击，他们下船后突袭了两家酒店、一个火车站、一家餐厅、一家医院，以及这个犹太人中心，最终导致160多人死亡。
“For reasons we will never know and never fathom, six pious people along with 158 others were torn from our grasp in the most barbaric and inhuman of ways,” Rabbi Moshe Kotlarsky, vice chairman of Merkos L’lnyonei Chinuch, the educational arm of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement, said during the ceremony. “Today, we fulfill a promise which was made at the funeral of Rabbi Gabi that we would rebuild.”
“出于我们永远都不知道、也搞不懂的原因，他们以最残忍、冷酷的方式夺走了六名虔诚教徒和其他158人的生命，”Chabad-Lubavitch运动在教育领域的分支Merkos L’lnyonei Chinuch的副主席、拉比摩西·考特拉斯基(Moshe Kotlarsky)在庆祝活动期间说。“我们在拉比加比(Gabi)的葬礼上承诺会重建中心，今天，我们兑现了承诺。”
The seven-story center will include a $2.5 million museum, yet to be completed, that will be the first in Mumbai to memorialize all of those killed in the attacks. One of the center’s floors will be left raw, with pockmarks and blast holes behind glass barriers to remind visitors of the devastation.
他们将耗资250万美元（约合1537万元人民币）在这栋七层建筑中设置一个博物馆，博物馆完工后将成为孟买首个纪念袭击事件所有遇难者的博物馆。其中一层将保持原貌，保留玻璃屏障后面的凹痕和爆裂穿孔，以便让访客记住这场灾难。
On another floor, designers intend to rebuild the Holtzbergs’ simple apartment, including its kitchen and living room, to show Indians how Orthodox Jews live. Signs in the kitchen, for instance, will explain the tenets of kosher cooking.
设计师打算在另一层楼上重建霍尔茨贝里的简朴公寓，包括厨房和客厅，向印度人展示犹太教正统派教徒的生活。例如，厨房中的标牌会对犹太教烹饪食品的规矩做出解释。
“The point is to show Indians that these people are not that distant from them,” said Nick Appelbaum of Ralph Appelbaum Associates, which designed the Holocaust Museum in Washington. “It will be Jewish life explained.”
“重点在于向印度人展示，这些人离他们没那么远，”拉尔夫·阿佩尔巴姆设计公司(Ralph Appelbaum Associates)的尼克·阿佩尔巴姆(Nick Appelbaum)说。“这将是对犹太人生活的诠释。”
Jews have been in India for thousands of years, but their numbers have dwindled. So while Mumbai may be one of the most colorful cities in the world, with a populace clad in a kaleidoscope of turbans and topis, saris and kameezes, Indian news media and spectators greeted the fedora- and tzitzit-wearing Hasidim on Tuesday with open-mouthed wonder. Amused rabbis were trailed through the center by packs of photographers as if they were Bollywood royalty.
犹太教徒在印度生活了数千年，但人数逐渐减少。虽然孟买或许是世界上最丰富多彩的城市之一，穿戴头巾、遮阳帽、纱丽和克米兹等各色服饰的人汇聚在这里，印度新闻媒体及旁观者在周二迎接戴着软呢帽和流苏饰物的哈西德人时，还是惊得目瞪口呆。被逗笑的拉比们在该中心穿梭，后面跟着一堆摄影师，仿佛前面的人是宝莱坞明星。
Missing from the ceremony was Moshe Holtzberg, the Holtzbergs’ 7-year-old son. Moshe was rescued during the attack by his Indian nanny, Sandra Samuel, who snatched up the blood-soaked toddler and dashed outside during the siege. Moshe and Ms. Samuel are still living in Israel at Moshe’s grandparents’ house, and counselors deemed the trip inappropriate for him, rabbis said.
霍尔茨贝里夫妇7岁的儿子摩西·霍尔茨贝里(Moshe Holtzberg)没有参加庆祝活动。袭击发生时，印度保姆桑德拉·塞缪尔(Sandra Samuel)救了摩西。遭到围攻期间，她抱起这个溅了满身血的孩子，冲了出去。拉比们表示，摩西和塞缪尔仍然居住在摩西祖父母位于以色列的房子里，专家认为他不适合前来参加这次活动。
The center’s reconstruction was delayed by India’s vast red tape and a court battle in Mumbai between the Holtzbergs’ parents and the Chabad-Lubavitch order over who controlled the property. The two sides dropped the case in 2011, with the organization assuming stewardship and George Rohr, a New York financier, paying for the rebuilding.
印度存在大量繁琐的官僚程序，而霍尔茨贝里的父母又与Chabad-Lubavitch神职人员就该中心由谁管控的问题在孟买打起了官司，这些情况都耽搁了中心的重建工作。双方于2011年放弃了这个案子，该组织承担管理工作，纽约金融家乔治·罗尔(George Rohr)资助了重建工作。