Two sisters, riding on a crowded bus in northern India on Friday, lashed their harassers with a belt. They kicked, pushed and punched one of the three men so aggressively that another man on the bus had to come to his aid — though the sisters said later none of their fellow passengers came to their defense.
周五，印度北部的两姐妹在一辆拥挤的公交车上，用皮带抽打性骚扰者。她们奋力用脚踢、用手推、用拳头打三名男子中的一人，以至于车上的另一名男子不得不来帮他。但姐妹二人后来表示，同车的乘客中没有一个出来保护她们。
A video of the incident that went viral over the weekend shows the two young women, identified by Indian media as Aarti, 22, and Pooja, 19, on a bus from Rohtak to Sonipat, in the state of Haryana, defending themselves after the men made lewd comments and obscene gestures. Pooja told the BBC that “the men started to abuse me and touch me.” 
周末，该事件的一段视频迅速得到了广泛的传播。视频显示，在哈里亚纳邦一辆从罗塔克开往索内帕特的公交车上，几名男子说出下流话，并做出下流手势之后，这两名女子开始出手自卫。印度媒体称这两名女子分别是22岁的阿尔蒂(Aarti)和19岁的普贾(Pooja)。普贾告诉BBC，“那些男的开始骂我，摸我。”
“If only the other passengers had helped us,” she said, “we would not have needed to retaliate in this way.”
“如果其他乘客帮了我们，”她说，“我们就不需要用这种方式对付他们了。”
The incident was recorded on the mobile phone of another passenger.
另一名乘客用手机记录下了这起事件。
Three men have since been arrested in the case, and the state government announced it was honoring the sisters with a cash award, the Times of India reported.
《印度时报》(Times of India)报道，事件中的三名男子已被捕，而且邦政府宣布会向姐妹二人给予现金奖励。
It’s been almost two years since the brutal gang rape and killing of a 23-year-old woman in New Delhi aboard a private bus. That case, and the continued threat of harassment that women endure in public in India, led to tougher laws punishing rape and more vigilant policing. Reports of rape in India have increased since then, and some observers say it’s because more women are now emboldened to report such crimes. Though women’s rights advocates say many incidents still go unreported.
不到两年前，新德里一名23岁的女子在私人运营的公交车上遭残暴轮奸致死。由于印度女性长期以来在公共场合面临着骚扰的威胁，在这起案件推动下，印度颁布了更严厉法律来惩处强奸，并加大了警方巡逻的力度。自那时以来，印度报告的强奸案数量有所增加，部分观察人士称，这是因为现在更多女性受到了鼓舞，敢于在这类罪行发生后报案。但女性权利倡导人士称，仍然有许多案件并未报案。
The Indian Express reported that the two young women aboard the bus in Rohtak tried calling a women’s help line after the men began making lewd comments, but there was no response.
《印度快报》(Indian Express)报道，在那些男子开始说下流话时，罗塔克那辆公交车上有两名女子曾尝试拨打一个女性求助电话，但无人应答。
“A complaint was received Friday evening and a case was registered against the three men,” The Express quoted Gajender Singh, a police inspector in Rohtak Sadar.
《印度快报》援引罗塔克的警方督察加金德·辛格(Gajender Singh)的话说，“周五傍晚接到报案，已对三名男子立案。”