NEW DELHI — News of a “mass molestation” surfaced swiftly in the Indian news media: Numerous women being groped, harassed and chased on the streets of Bangalore by an unruly crowd on New Year’s Eve.
新德里——“大规模骚扰”的消息迅速出现在印度的新闻媒体中：新年前夕，在班加罗尔的街头，很多女性遭到了暴民的猥亵、骚扰和追逐。
And almost as swiftly, the government official who is ultimately responsible for keeping order on those streets, the home minister of Karnataka State, said the women were to blame because of the way they looked and acted.
而主管这些街道上秩序的政府官员、卡纳塔克邦的内务部长几乎同样迅速地说，应该遭到指责的是这些女性，因为她们的装束和举止有问题。
“Youngsters were almost like Westerners,” said the official, G. Parameshwara, in a televised interview on Monday. “They tried to copy the Westerner, not only in their mind-set but even in their dressing. So some disturbance, some girls are harassed, these kind of things do happen.”
“这些年轻人几乎就像是西方人。”官员G·帕拉梅西瓦拉(G. Parameshwara)周一在接受电视采访时说：“她们试图模仿西方人，不仅是心态上，甚至在装束上也是如此。所以有了这些乱象，有些女孩受到了骚扰，这样的事情是一定会发生的。”
Public outcry over sexual assault and street safety in India has magnified in recent years as such cases have come to light, including the 2012 rape of a 23-year-old woman on a bus in New Delhi who later died of her injuries. Though the government has since imposed harsher punishment for sexual assault, politicians and the police have been criticized as failing to take the issue seriously and blaming the victims for the violence committed against them.
近几年来，随着这类案例的广为传播，公众对印度的性侵现象和街头安全问题的抗议越来越强烈，其中一个案例是2012年，在新德里在一辆公共汽车上，一名23岁的女子遭到了强奸，后来她因伤重不治而亡。虽然政府此后对性侵行为实施了更严厉的惩罚，但人们批评政界人士和警察没有认真对待这个问题，并把暴力问题归咎于受害者。
Rajnath Singh, the national home minister, told reporters on Tuesday that “protecting modesty of women is the duty of state government,” the Press Trust of India reported. But some elected officials reacted to the events in Bangalore by pointing the finger at Westernizing customs rather than the assailants.
《印度报业托拉斯日报》(Press Trust of India)称，印度内政部长拉杰纳特·辛格(Rajnath Singh)周二对记者表示，“保护女性的端庄稳重是邦政府的职责”。但一些民选官员对班加罗尔事件作出的反应是指责西式装束，而不是指责攻击者。
Abu Azmi, an assemblyman from Maharashtra State, complained in televised statements on Tuesday that “the more nude the woman looks, the more fashionable and modern she is called.”
来自马哈拉施特拉邦的议员阿布·阿兹米（Abu Azmi）在周二的电视讲话中抱怨说，“女人的装束裸露得越多，人们就越是说她时尚、时髦。”
Thousands of people had gathered on two roads in central Bangalore to see in the new year when the trouble started. The police on the scene — more than 1,500 officers, many of them in plain clothes, according to Mr. Parameshwara — were quickly overwhelmed when men began molesting women and shouting lewd remarks, witnesses and news reports said.
跨年夜的这场混乱开始的时候，数以千计的人聚集在班加罗尔市中心的两条马路上。根据帕拉梅西瓦拉的说法，现场有1500多名警官，其中很多人穿着便衣。目击者和新闻报道称，当男人骚扰女性、大喊下流话的现象发生时，警力马上就显得非常不足。
A woman who said she saw what happened told the news channel NDTV that the crowd became “like a stampede” and that whenever women passed by, men “took it as their chance to grope them and molest them.”
一名目击者告诉新闻频道NDTV，她看到人群就像是发生了“踩踏事件”一般，每当有女人经过，男人“就会抓住机会猥亵她们，骚扰她们”。
“I saw a girl who was literally shouting out and crying for some help,” said the woman, whom the network did not name. “Then there was another woman who really took out her heels in order to protect herself.” She said she saw a girl faint from fear, and have to be carried to safety by the police.
“我看到一个女孩大喊救命，然后另一个女人真的脱下了高跟鞋，用来保护自己。”该女子说道。新闻频道没有透露她的名字。她还说看到一个女孩因恐惧而晕倒，被警察抬到了安全的地方。
The Bangalore Mirror published photographs of women clinging to female police officers and being rushed away by men.
在《班加罗尔镜报》(Bangalore Mirror)发表的照片里，可以看到一些女性抱住女警官，男人从她们身边匆匆走过。
Ramya Shreedharan, 27, a software worker in Bangalore, was walking down MG Road, where the revelers had converged, at around 12:30 a.m. on Sunday.
27岁的若亚·希德哈兰(Ramya Shreedharan)是班加罗尔的一名软件工作者，周日凌晨12:30左右，他走在MG路上，当时狂欢者已经聚集在了那里。
“I saw some girls running away from men on motorbikes,” Ms. Shreedharan said. “They ran toward the cops. I think it was temporary respite, because the minute the cops were even a few meters away, the men returned to hound the women.”
“我看到一些女孩在奔逃，乘坐摩托车的男人在追她们，”希德哈兰说。“她们跑向警察。我觉得那只是暂时的喘息，只要警察离开几米远，这些男人就会回来骚扰她们。”
Mr. Parameshwara said the police were reviewing security-camera video from the episode, but by Tuesday they had not yet formally registered a criminal case.
帕拉梅西瓦拉说，警方正在检查事件发生时监控摄像头录下的视频，但截至周二，他们还没有进行正式的刑事立案。
The city’s police commissioner, Praveen Sood, urged victims to speak up. “If we are given coordinates of any lady molested on 31st at MG Rd, we the police will visit her and take appropriate action,” he said in a Twitter post.
该市警察局局长普拉温·索德(Praveen Sood)敦促受害者报案。“如果我们获得了31号在MG路任何一个被骚扰的女性的信息，警方就会询问她当时的情况，并采取适当的行动，”他在Twitter上写道。