BANGALORE, India — IN India today, the rapes of women, from children to grandmothers, are daily news. Frothy television programs on sentimentalized family values are interrupted by advertisements for a new smartphone app: VithU, which allows women in danger, at a double press of a power button, to send an S O S alert with their location to predesignated friends and family members.
印度班加罗尔——在今天的印度，女性被强奸是每天都会出现的新闻，遇害人有女童，也有老妪。煽情渲染家庭价值观的电视节目被一款新智能手机应用的广告打断。这款名为VithU的应用可让身处险境的女性通过双击电源键，向预先设定的朋友和家人发送含有其位置信息的求助警报。
Universities are debating requiring students to abandon jeans and adopt formal dress codes, as though the trappings of civilization are needed to hold at bay the anarchy of sexual violence. Twelve-year-old schoolgirls are attending rape awareness seminars, in a death of innocence.
大学在辩论是否应该要求学生抛弃牛仔裤，改穿正式服装，仿佛文明的装束能够遏止无法无天的性暴力。12岁的学龄女孩参加意在提高其对强奸意识的讨论会，小小年纪就失去童真。
Indian cities are awash with feral men, untethered from their distant villages, divorced from family and social structure, fighting poverty, exhausted, denied access to regular female companionship, adrift on powerful tides of alcohol and violent pornography, newly exposed to the smart young women of the cities, with their glistening jobs and clothes and casual independence — and not able to respond to any of it in a safe, civilized manner. This is the world of women under siege, the medieval world of the walking undead, the rise of the zombies, targeting females rich and poor. For women, at least, winter is coming.
印度的城市里充斥着野蛮的男性，他们远离自己的村庄，离开家人和其熟知的社会结构，和贫穷作斗争，筋疲力尽，无法获得正常的女性陪伴，在酒和暴力色情中沉沦，而同时又初见大城市时髦的年轻女性——她们有着光鲜的工作和衣服，身上还透着一股独立的劲儿，对所有这一切他们不能以一种安全、文明的方式进行回应。这是一个女性被包围的世界，一个中世纪的不死人世界，僵尸四处游荡，富裕和贫穷的女性都成为他们的攻击对象。至少，对于女性来说，冬天来了。
In this context, it might appear odd to examine any other variant of the Indian male. But it is important to do so and to do so now. To bear witness to an alternate male reality that also pervades India on a daily basis.
在这样的情况下，想要研究另一类印度男性可能显得很奇怪。但是这么做、现在这么做十分重要：证明在日常生活中也能见到印度男性的另一面。
This is what I witnessed on a recent flight from Kolkata to Bangalore. The plane was typical of budget air travel: full of businessmen and mothers. The smart flight attendants were young men. The pilot, captain of the flight deck, was a woman. This is not an uncommon combination in India these days. I was struck instead by the behavior of the male passengers.
在最近一个从加尔各答飞往班加罗尔的航班上，我目睹到这一点。那是一个典型的低成本航班：客舱里坐满了商人和母亲。聪明的空乘全是年轻男性，而飞行员——驾驶舱的机长——是名女性。如今这样的组合在印度并不罕见。让我吃惊的是男性乘客的行为。
In most countries, a woman clambering aboard a plane with a fretful infant and turning a crowded row of six into a de facto row of seven is usually met with hostility. Here, every other row seemed larded with these women and their babies. But those stuffy Indian businessmen — men of middle management, dodging bottles and diaper bags and carelessly flung toys — they didn’t grumble. Instead, up and down the plane, I saw them helping. Holding babies so that mothers could eat. Burping infants and entertaining toddlers. Not because they knew these women, but because being concerned and engaged was their normal mode of social behavior. So, I will say this — Indian men can also be among the kindest in the world.
在大多数国家，当一个女人带着一个烦躁不安的婴儿登上飞机，让一排拥挤的六人座位变成事实上的七人座时，通常她不会得到什么好脸色。而在这架飞机上，好像每隔一排的座位上就夹杂着这样的女性和她们的宝宝。但这些古板的印度商人——这些中层管理人员，他们躲开奶瓶、尿布袋还有小孩随意甩出来的玩具——他们没有抱怨。相反，在客舱前前后后，我看到他们在帮忙：抱住婴儿以便让母亲吃东西。轻拍婴儿让他们打嗝，逗逗刚会走路的幼儿。不是因为他们认识这些女性，而是因为给予关心和参与是他们正常的社会行为准则。因此，我要说的是，印度男性也堪称世界上最善良的群体之一。
Women know this. When I asked my friends and acquaintances — both Indian and expatriate — about their perceptions of Indian men, they mentioned intelligence, wit and a reverence for learning. Others described gregarious partners who knew how to relax and enjoy themselves. All of them talked about commitment and caring. One said, “I love that he is deeply concerned about his parents.” An Englishwoman said of her long-term Indian partner, “He makes me feel cherished and taken care of in a manner I never experienced in the U.K.” Another said of her father, “He supported my mother through their marriage, through her job, with the kids, her health, everything.” A 16-year-old schoolgirl echoed this: “You feel safe with them. No matter what, they will see you home safely.”
女性知道这一点。当我问我的朋友和熟人——印度人以及侨居印度的外国人——对印度男人的看法，她们都提到了聪明、机智以及对学识的尊重。其他人则描述自己合群的伴侣懂得如何放松和休闲。她们都谈到这些男人如何有责任感并很会体贴人。一名女性说，“我很爱他那么关心他的父母。”而一个英国女人在谈到她的印度伴侣时表示，“他让我感到被珍惜和照顾，我在英国从没有过这样的感觉。”另一名女性在提到自己父亲时说，“在婚姻中，他一直支持着母亲，在工作、抚养孩子、健康，以及所有的事情上他都给了母亲支持。”一个16岁的女学生表达了同样的看法，“和他们在一起你会感到特别安全。不管发生什么，他们会保证你安全到家。”
Strong familial commitment is not a phenomenon restricted to the urban middle classes. Migrant laborers care for wives and children, and still send money home to their parents. The young woman who was gang-raped on a New Delhi bus on Dec. 16 had a village-raised father who supported her ardently. This part of the story is so unsurprising, it rarely makes the news.
对家庭负责任不仅仅是城市中产阶级印度男性的特点。农民工也很关心妻子和孩子，并且还会寄钱给自己的父母。12月16日在新德里的公车上被轮奸的年轻女性，就有一个在农村长大的父亲，他竭尽全力地支持她。而故事的这一部分如此平常，以至于很少见诸报端。
Let me introduce the Common Indian Male, a category that deserves taxonomic recognition: committed, concerned, cautious; intellectually curious, linguistically witty; socially gregarious, endearingly awkward; quick to laugh, slow to anger. Frequently spotted in domestic circles, traveling in a family herd. He has been sighted in sari shops and handbag stores, engaged in debating his spouse’s selection with the sons and daughters who trail behind. There is, apparently, no domestic decision that is not worthy of his involvement.
让我来介绍一下常见的印度男性，这是一个值得专门分类的群体：有责任心、为他人操心、谨慎；求知欲强、语言幽默、喜爱社交、笨拙得有些可爱；爱笑、不易怒。经常和家人一起活动，拖家带口地旅行。在纱丽店和手袋店里，他会和跟在身后的儿女讨论妻子选中的衣物。很显然，家中大小事务都值得他费心。
There is a telling phrase that best captures the Indian man in a relationship — whether as lover, parent or friend: not “I love you” but “Main hoon na.” It translates to “I’m here for you” but is better explained as a hug of commitment — “Never fear, I’m here.” These are men for whom commitment is a joy, a duty and a deep moral anchor.
有一个短语很能说明问题，它极好地描述有牵挂的印度男人，无论这种关系是情人、父母还是朋友。这个短语不是“我爱你”，而是“Main hoon na ”。它可以翻译为“我在这里，为你”，但把它理解成温柔的承诺会更好——“别怕，有我在。”对于这些男士来说，做出承诺是一种快乐、一种责任、一种深刻的道德支柱。
At its excessive worst, this sensibility can produce annoyances: a sentimentalized addiction to Mummy; concern that becomes judgmental and stifling; and a proud or oversensitive emotional landscape.
在做过头的最糟糕情况下，这样的感性可能会产生烦恼：在情感上对妈妈过于依恋；关心变成了对什么事都要发表高见，令人窒息；以及在情感上变得骄傲或者过度敏感。
But when it is at its best, the results, in women’s lives, speak for themselves. If the image of the Indian female as victim is true, so, too, is its converse: the Indian woman who coexists as a strong survivor, as conqueror, as worshiped goddess made flesh. Indian women have served as prime minister and president. They head banks and large corporations. They are formidable politicians, religious heads, cultural icons, judges, athletes and even godmothers of crime.
但是，在最佳状态下，它会给女性生活带来莫大的益处。如果说印度女性的受害者形象是真实的，那么其反面也同样真实：印度妇女，作为强大的幸存者、征服者、被崇拜的女神化身，跟印度男性共处。印度女性担任过总理和总统。印度银行和大公司的一把手中也不乏女性。她们是令人敬畏的政治家、宗教领袖、文化偶像、法官、运动员，甚至是犯罪集团的教母。
Modern India has a muscular democracy and a growing economy, both of which have significantly transformed the lives of women. But female success, in a place like India with complicated social structures and a tradition of the Old Uncle Network, doesn’t happen in isolation. A successful woman is very likely to have had a supportive male in her life: a father, a spouse, a friend, a mentor.
现代印度拥有强大的民主制度和不断增长的经济，这两者都大大改变了女性的生活。但是，在印度这样社会结构复杂，裙带关系传统悠久的国家，女性的成功不会是单打独斗的结果。成功女性身边，很可能有一个支持她的男性：父亲、丈夫、朋友、导师。
For his part, the Indian male, when nested in family and community, is part of a domestic tapestry that is intricately woven and vital, it seems, to his own sense of well-being. Take that away from him, hurl him away — and a possible result is a man unmoored, lost, adrift and, potentially, a danger to himself and to his world. Disconnection causes social disengagement and despair — and the behavior that is the product of alienation and despair.
对印度男性而言，当置身于家庭和社区之中时，他就是“家族挂毯”的一部分，这副挂毯编织得错综复杂，对他自己的幸福感来说似乎非常重要。剥夺这种东西，把他赶走，可能就会让这个男人没有了停泊之处，变得失落、漂泊，对他自己和他所在的世界形成潜在的危险。切断关系产生了社会隔膜和绝望——以及疏远和绝望所导致的行为。