LUCKNOW, India — In a glass-sided call center, police constables clicketyclack on computer keyboards, on the trail of a particularly Indian sort of criminal.
印度勒克瑙——在一个带玻璃墙的呼叫中心里，警员敲打着电脑键盘，追踪印度一种特别类型的犯罪。
The “phone Romeo,” as he is known here, calls numbers at random until he hears a woman’s voice, in the hope of striking up a romantic attachment. Among them are overeager suitors (“Can I recharge your mobile?”), tremulous supplicants (“I am talking to you, madam, but my body is shaking”) and the occasional heavy breather (“I want to do the illegal things with you”).
这种做法叫“手机罗密欧”，指的是随机拨打手机号码，直到接听者是女性，目的是希望与对方开始浪漫关系。这些人当中有热情过分的追求者（“我可以为你充话费吗？”），有胆小的乞求者（“我在和你说话，女士，但我的身体在抖。”）和偶尔沉重喘息的人（“我想和你做一些不合法的事情。”）。
Intentionally dialing wrong numbers is a labor-intensive way to find a girlfriend. But it is increasingly common in a range of countries — Morocco, Papua New Guinea, Bangladesh and India are examples — where traditional gender segregation has collided head-on with a wave of cheap new technology.
故意拨错号码来寻找女朋友，这是很费精力的事情。但在摩洛哥、巴布亚新几内亚、孟加拉国和印度等国家，等随着传统的性别隔离与价格低廉的新技术浪潮的碰撞，这种做法正变得日益常见。
India is justly proud of its mobile-phone revolution. Call tariffs are among the world’s cheapest, and competition has sent the price of broadband plummeting. An estimated 680 million Indians use cellphones now, with three million new ones coming online every month. India’s leaders promote mobile platforms as a sign of social progress, a better way to distribute subsidies and obtain information about health care and agricultural conditions.
印度有理由为该国的手机革命感到自豪。这里的电话费率是世界上最便宜的，竞争导致了宽带价格暴跌。估计现在有6.8亿印度人使用手机，而且每月增加300万新用户。印度领导人宣扬移动平台是社会进步的标志，也是一种更好地分配补贴、获取关于医疗保健和农业情况信息的途径。
An unintended consequence is that social barriers between men and women are collapsing. Reports of phone stalking have increased exponentially, leading to growing complaints of harassment. But an unknown number of such calls are successful, resulting in what an American anthropologist has labeled “wrong-number relationships.”
但一个意外的结果是，男女之间的社会壁垒正在坍塌。有关电话骚扰的报告呈指数级增加，导致骚扰投诉越来越多。不过，成功产生一段如同一位美国人类学家所说的“拨错号的爱情”的数据，则不得而知。
“It’s a new thing,” said Julia Q. Huang, a fellow in the anthropology department of the London School of Economics, who has written a scholarly paper on the practice among young women in Bangladesh. “It’s covert, it’s risky, it’s experimenting with that outside world which they don’t have much access to.”
“这是一种新情况，”伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)人类学系研究员茱莉娅·Q·黄(Julia Q. Huang)说。她曾就孟加拉国年轻女性之间的这种现象写过一篇学术论文。“它隐秘，有风险，是对那个她们没有太多机会接触的外部世界进行的尝试。”
At the police call center in Lucknow, in northern India, roughly 700 calls come in every day, mostly from women complaining of persistent calls from strange men. The Hindustan Times recently reported that phone recharging outlets were selling the numbers of young women to interested men, charging 500 rupees, about $7.60, for a “beautiful” girl and 50 rupees for an “ordinary” one.
印度北方城市勒克瑙警方的呼叫中心，每天差不多都会接到700通电话，大多是女性打来投诉陌生男性的骚扰电话。《印度斯坦时报》 (Hindustan Times)近日报道称，有些手机充值店正把年轻女性的号码卖给对此感兴趣的男性，每个“漂亮”女性的号码要价500卢比（约合53元人民币），“普通”女性的则是50卢比。
Recently, a complaint came from Geetika Chakravarty, 24, a makeup artist who grew up traveling the world with her father, a diplomat. After she returned to India from Canada last year, she posted her phone number in the contact section of a salon’s Facebook page and received so many calls from unknown men that she blocked 200 separate numbers.
不久前，24岁的杰提卡·查克拉瓦蒂(Geetika Chakravarty)打来了投诉电话。查克拉瓦蒂是一名化妆师，成长过程中曾随当外交官的父亲周游世界。去年从加拿大返回印度后，她在一家沙龙Facebook主页的联系信息部分贴出了自己的电话号码，但由于陌生男性打来的电话实在太多，她不得不拉黑了200个不同的号码。
“I do not know what their mind-set is,” she said. “Sometimes they call and say, ‘I love you.’ Sometimes they call and say, ‘I want to talk to Sonia,’ and I would say, ‘I am not Sonia,’ and they would say, ‘O.K., can I talk to you?’”
“我不知道他们是什么心态，”她说。“有时候他们打过来说，‘我爱你。’有时候他们打过来说，‘我想找索尼亚(Sonia)’，我说‘我不是索尼亚’，他们则会说，‘好的，能跟你聊聊吗？’”
But the most persistent among them was from a man who would call three or four times a day, urging her to meet him somewhere. When she blocked his number, he would call from another. She began to worry that he would track her down in person.
但他们之中有一个人最为执着，每天会打来三四次，催查克拉瓦蒂跟他在某个地方见面。一个号码被拉黑，他就换一个号码打过来。查克拉瓦蒂开始担心他会跟踪自己。
“He sounded like a creepy Indian guy to me,” Ms. Chakravarty said.
“我觉得，他听上去像是一个令人毛骨悚然的印度男人，”查克拉瓦蒂说。
When the police traced the number, the person they found at the end of it was Premsagar Tiwari, whose given name in Hindi translates as “Sea of Love.” Mr. Tiwari, 24, turned out to be a high-strung, pencil-necked man who grew up in two small rooms in the corner of the down-at-heel government school where his father worked as a night watchman.
警方通过追踪其号码发现了这个人，他的真名叫普雷姆塞格尔·蒂瓦里(Premsagar Tiwari)，名字的意思是“爱之海”。蒂瓦里现年24岁，是一个神经紧张、脖颈纤细的男人。他父亲在一所破败的公立学校当过守夜人，学校角落里的两间小屋便是他长大成人的地方。
Outside his window, young women came and went in their crisp school uniforms. But the night watchman’s son could not approach them.
身穿挺括校服的年轻女孩在他窗外来来去去。但守夜人的儿子不能接近他们。
“The way he was built,” said Satyavir Sachan, the constable assigned to the case, “it didn’t seem he could talk to girls.”
“他的成长环境就是这样，”负责调查该案的警员沙蒂亚维尔·萨川(Satyavir Sachan)说，“他当初似乎无法和女孩们说话。”
Poring through Mr. Tiwari’s call records, Mr. Sachan found that he was using eight SIM cards, some registered under false names, to contact more than 500 women. The activity occupied, by police estimates, two to three hours a day.
萨川仔细察看了蒂瓦里的通话记录，发现他使用八张SIM卡联系了500多名女性——有些SIM卡是用假名字登记的。据警方估计，他每天要花两三个小时打电话。
Summoned to the police station, Mr. Tiwari confessed readily and with clasped hands he beseeched the police not to imprison him. His phone calls, he explained in an interview, should better be understood as part of his search for a soul mate.
被叫到警察局以后，蒂瓦里立即坦白了一切，他双手紧合，恳求警方不要把自己关起来。接受讯问时，他解释说，自己打出的电话应该被更好地理解成寻找灵魂伴侣的部分努力。
“One person is enough to fulfill you,” Mr. Tiwari said. “I have nobody. The person you love will be somewhere, there, standing last in line. You have to reach them somehow. And when you find that someone, you stop looking.”
“只要有一个人就可以让你满足，”蒂瓦里说。“我连一个人也没有。你爱的人肯定在某个地方，站在最后边。你得以某种方式找到他们。等你找到某个人的时候，你就会停止寻找。”
He said he had heard many stories of men and women meeting over social media and going on to marry.
他说，男男女女在社交媒体上相遇然后喜结连理的故事，他听过很多。
“I may be a failed man,” he said, “but I am very passionate.”
“我或许是一个失败的男人，”他说，“但我非常有激情。”
The police were not impressed, and held him in custody for 15 days.
警方不为所动，他被拘留15天。
An inverse story was unfolding in Bangalore, where Umakanti Padhan, a moon-faced 16-year-old garment factory worker, tried to call her sister-in-law. She misdialed and found herself accidentally conversing with Bulu, a railway worker eight years her senior.
在班加罗尔发生了一个与此截然相反的故事。脸庞圆圆的16岁服装厂女工乌马坎蒂·帕德安(Umakanti Padhan)本想打给嫂子，却拨错号码，阴差阳错地和比她大8岁的铁路工人布卢(Bulu)通了话。
She hung up, alarmed. At home, beginning at puberty, she had been prohibited from speaking with any adult man, including her brothers and cousins.
她颇为惊恐，把电话挂断了。以前在家里，她从青春期开始便不得和任何成年男性交谈，包括她的兄弟和表亲。
Ten minutes later, Bulu called back and told her that he liked the sound of her voice. “When I hear your voice, it feels like someone of my own,” he said. “I feel like talking to you all the time.”
十分钟后，布卢回拨过来，说他喜欢她的声音。“我一听到你的声音，就觉得我的那个她出现了，”他说。“我真想一直都和你交谈。”
So she agreed. Every night, she slipped out to the roof of her Bangalore workers’ hostel, where she shares a room with 11 other young women, and spoke to Bulu about mundane things: how their shifts went and what they had eaten that day.
她同意了。每天晚上，在班加罗尔一处工人宿舍和另外11个年轻女孩共住一个房间的她，都会溜到屋顶上和布卢聊些日常琐事：譬如轮班的情况，以及那天吃了什么。
“He’s told me everything that ever happened to him from the time he was a kid,” she said. “I don’t know whether it is good or bad, but I trust him. I know he will not betray me.”
“他把自己从小到大经历过的所有一切都讲给我听，”她说。“我不知道这是好是坏，但我信任他。我知道他不会背叛我。”
Ms. Huang, the anthropologist, said the women she met in Bangladesh were often happy to engage in telephone courtships with anonymous strangers, and some maintained five or six at once. Phone contact, they told her, was safer because it presupposed physical distance. Also, it forced the men on the other end of the line to listen to them for long stretches.
人类学研究员茱莉娅·Q·黄说，她在孟加拉遇到的一些女性常常颇为享受匿名陌生人在电话里的追求，会同时和五六个人保持联络。她们告诉她，电话联络更为安全，因为是以保持物理距离为前提。此外，这种方式迫使电话另一端的男人长时间听她们说话。
“It’s one of those boundary-expanding experiences that allow you to think about opportunities that were not previously available,” she said. Young women, she said, described these relationships with “kind of a fearful excitement.”
她说，“这是那些拓展边界的体验之一，让你得以考虑以前没有过的机会。”她还说，年轻女性将这种关系形容为让人“有点儿恐惧、有点儿兴奋”。
For the young men, she said, “dialing random numbers is like playing the lottery and seeing what comes up.” Often, she said, they approach it almost as a competitive sport, vying to see “who is more skilled at keeping a woman on the phone for a long time.”
她说，对年轻男性而言，“随机拨打号码就像在抽奖，然后等着出结果。”她说很多时候，他们几乎把这当成了竞技运动，想要分出“谁才是最善于让女人长时间不挂电话的人”。
As for Ms. Padhan and her boyfriend, 11 months have passed and they still have not met in person.
至于帕德安和她的男友，整整11个月过去了，他们仍未见面。
Her roommates roll their eyes at her naïveté.
室友们对她的天真幼稚报以白眼。
But when their shifts are finished, they, too, retire to stairwells and corners of the rooftop for the covert nightly call. From there, it is possible to look across the rooftops of other boardinghouses and see figures hunched over their cellphones, in all directions, a wide-angle shot of young India in pursuit of love.
但下班后，她们也会躲到楼梯间或者屋顶的某个角落，打隐秘的夜间电话。人们从那里可以鸟瞰其他宿舍的屋顶，看到四面八方摆弄手机的身影——他们是广角镜头中追寻爱情的印度年轻人。