NEW DELHI — How cruel that the men and women who were about to pledge substantial amounts to charity for the very first time in their lives had to pass through the illuminated showrooms of Hermès, Burberry, Gucci and Ermenegildo Zegna before reaching the venue of the First Givers Club.
新德里——在到达第一捐赠人俱乐部(First Givers Club)之前，那些就要平生第一次承诺捐赠大额善款的男男女女必须穿过爱马仕(Hermès)、博柏利(Burberry)、古驰(Gucci)和杰尼亚(Ermenegildo Zegna)灯火通明的展厅。这是多么的残忍。
Here the imminent philanthropists, who appeared resolute, mingled with more seasoned givers, the employees of India’s charity industry and the type of men, common at Delhi’s banquets, whose job profiles are incomprehensible. The evening, organized by Give India — a service that unites potential donors and the needy — proceeded with the somewhat frequent use of “inflection point” and “ecosystem” and, one of India’s favorite alliterations, “demographic dividend.”
在这里，即将成为慈善人士的他们看上去很坚决，他们和经验更丰富的捐赠人、印度慈善业的工作人员以及常在德里的各种宴会上现身、职业介绍令人费解的一类男子共聚一堂。当晚的活动是由“捐助印度”(Give India)组织的，该机构让潜在的捐赠者和穷人建立联系。活动期间，“拐点”、“生态系统”和印度最热门的头韵短语之一“人口结构红利”频频出现。
India’s miseries are so many and so visible that affluent Indians of sound mind live with a relentless hum of conscience nudging them to donate to causes. Television commercials and print advertisements show them bleak images, often in black and white, of unhappy children whose lives could be better. These artistic images are largely unnecessary because almost all of India is a plea to its own to make it a better place. Yet, there is very little in the way of philanthropy.
印度的苦难如此之多，如此之明显，以至于印度心智健全的富人能听到良心不断发出的声音，督促他们向慈善事业捐款。在电视广告和平面广告上，他们会看到一些凄凉的照片，往往是黑白照片，上面是一些不幸的孩子，他们的生活可以变得更好。这些精心制作的画面基本上是多余的，因为几乎整个印度的形象都像是在请求把自己变得更好。然而，慈善行为少之又少。
In fact, the direct contribution of Indian business to social causes is so low that a law soon taking effect will require companies of a certain size and profitability to spend a fraction of their wealth on what is ambiguously termed corporate social responsibility, or explain to the government why they have failed to do so.
事实上，印度企业对社会事业的直接贡献非常少，以至于一部很快就要生效的法律要求，规模和盈利达到一定水平的企业，必须将一部分财富用于定义含糊的“企业社会责任”，否则必须向政府解释未能那么做的原因。
Such a responsibility has traditionally been a corporate ruse to save on taxes by showing expenditures on seemingly charitable causes, or, in old-fashioned business houses, a way to keep the women in the family occupied as the men did ostensibly more important things. But now the government wants Indian companies to get more serious about it.
传统上，通过展示看似慈善事务上的开支，企业把这种责任用作避税的伎俩，又或者，在老派的商业家族，这种责任让男性在做貌似更重要的事情时，让家里的女性有事可做。但现在，政府希望印度企业更认真地对待这件事情。
One reason most Indian businesses have been so parsimonious is that, very simply, they probably don’t care so much about orphans. And, they are as new to wealth as India is. Also, the cost of doing business in India is high to begin with, which is a euphemism for having to give bribes and be the primary sponsors of political corruption. But there have been some companies that have very consciously developed a philanthropic profile.
大部分印度企业这么吝啬的其中一个原因很简单，它们可能就是不那么在乎孤儿。而且，如同整个印度一样，它们也是刚刚有了一些财富。此外，在印度做生意的“成本”本来就很高——这是一种委婉说法，意思是必须行贿和成为政治腐败的主要赞助者。但也有一些企业自觉投入慈善事业。
One of the speakers at the First Givers Club was Rakesh Mittal, the high-spirited vice chairman and managing director of the conglomerate Bharti Enterprises. He said that Indian companies today “are looking at doing more beyond business, not because the government is forcing them, but because we cannot have islands of wealth. You cannot take this country forward if we are just worried about what I have and what I need for me and my family, and the ecosystem and the society around is crumbling.”
在第一捐赠人俱乐部发言的人中，包括拉凯什·米塔尔(Rakesh Mittal)，充满激情的他是企业集团巴蒂集团(Bharti Enterprises)的副董事长兼总经理。他说，当今的印度企业“正在寻求做更多业务以外的事情，这不是因为政府正在强迫它们，而是因为我们不能只有富裕的孤岛。如果我们只操心自己有什么，自己和家人需要什么，而周围的生态环境和周围的社会在崩溃，就无法推动这个国家向前迈进。”
He spoke about opening scores of schools for the poor and how his success inspired state governments to ask him to run their schools, and how it was often a “nightmarish” experience to work with the government.
他谈到自己的经历。他为穷人开办了几十所学校，他的成功促使政府请他管理政府的学校，而与政府的合作常常像是“噩梦”。
The next morning I asked the Indian minister of state for human resource development, Shashi Tharoor, to comment on Mr. Mittal’s experience with the government. Mr. Tharoor said, “I am in the government and I find it nightmarish at times.”
次日上午，我请印度人力资源发展部国务部长沙希·塔鲁尔(Shashi Tharoor)评论米塔尔与政府部门打交道的经历。塔鲁尔说，“我是政府体制内的人，我也经常觉得像噩梦。”
When Mr. Mittal tried to acquire land to start his schools, he faced opposition from villagers who suspected that he was trying to seize their land to set up cellular towers. Among the poor, Indian corporations have a reputation for being thieves, and that is not merely because the nation has been seasoned in socialist paranoia for decades. The perception is well earned. In fact, Mr. Mittal’s brother, Sunil Mittal, chairman of Bharti Enterprises, has been accused by the Central Bureau of Investigation of colluding with a former minister and a bureaucrat more than a decade ago and bagging a mobile telephone spectrum license that eventually resulted in a loss of nearly 8.5 billion rupees, or $132 million at current exchange rates, to the government. He has denied the allegation.
当米塔尔试图购买土地开办学校时，他遇到了村民的反对，他们怀疑他获取土地是为了修建移动通信基站塔。在穷人当中，印度企业有着窃贼的名声，这不仅仅是因为印度国民被灌输了几十年的社会主义偏执观念。这种看法其实是有根据的。实际上，米塔尔的弟弟苏尼尔·米塔尔(Sunil Mittal)就被印度中央调查局(Central Bureau of Investigation)指控在十多年前与一位前部长和一名官僚勾结，获得一份移动通信频谱许可证，最终导致政府损失近85亿卢比（约合7.8亿元人民币），按当前汇率约合1.32亿美元。他否认这一指控。
Speaking before the First Givers Club, Anu Aga, one of India’s noted business figures and philanthropists, said that she was inspired by her son, who died in a car accident when he was 25. He was very affected by India’s poverty, she said, and believed that a substantial part of his family’s wealth should go to charity. That is, somehow, an unusual wish for a wealthy Indian.
在第一捐赠人俱乐部前发言时，印度最有名的商界人物、慈善家之一阿努·阿迦(Anu Aga)说自己是受了已故的儿子的鼓舞。她的儿子25岁时死于车祸。她说，印度的贫穷对儿子的影响很大，他觉得应该用相当一部分家庭财富做慈善。不知为何，这种意愿在印度富人当中是不寻常的。
But it is not uncommon for temples to receive huge donations. They are periodically surprised by gold coins, gold bars and jewels in the offering box. Such donations are, of course, meant to win divine favor for the donors and their children.
但寺庙获得大量捐赠的现象却并不罕见。每隔一段时间，捐赠箱里的金币、金条和珠宝就会让他们喜出望外。当然，这样的捐赠是为了让捐赠者及其子女赢得神灵的眷顾。
There is another reason, according to Rohini Nilekani, who recently sold a portion of her shares in Infosys, which her husband, Nandan Nilekani, co-founded, to raise money for her philanthropic work. “Temples are institutions of trust,” she told me.
据鲁西尼·尼尔卡尼(Rohini Nilekani)说，还有一个原因。前不久，为了给自己的慈善工作筹款，她出售了自己在Infosys的一部分股票。她丈夫南丹·尼尔卡尼(Nandan Nilekani)是该公司的联合创始人。“寺庙是值得信任的机构，”她告诉我。
In a nation where people are suspicious of anyone who seeks to separate them from their money, religious organizations offer themselves as trustworthy receptacles of donations. But their balance sheets are mostly opaque. And even though they do build hospitals and schools, they hoard most of their substantial wealth in fixed deposits. God, it appears, not only converts donations into idle money, but also corners vast amounts of finite charity that would have otherwise been put to better use by more material organizations.
在印度，人们对所有试图让他们掏钱的人充满猜疑。在这样一个国度，宗教组织成了值得信赖的受赠方。但他们的资本负债表大多是不透明的。而且即便他们确实出资修建医院和学校，他们也将可观财富中的大部分放在定期存款里。神灵似乎不仅把善款变成了闲置资金，还占用了有限的善款中的相当一部分，这些资金本来可由世俗组织更好地利用。
But the government does make up for all the shortcomings that Indians exhibit when it comes to giving. On Monday evening, despite the nation’s acute fiscal deficit crisis, the Parliament passed an extraordinary bill that guarantees free or subsidized grain to two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people. With a magnanimous government like this, every Indian taxpayer is a philanthropist.
但政府在慈善捐赠方面的确弥补了印度人表现出的所有毛病。周一晚上，尽管印度面临着严重的财政赤字危机，议会还是通过了一项不寻常的法案，确保印度12亿人口中的三分之二能获得免费或补贴的粮食。有这样一个慷慨的政府，印度每一个纳税人都是慈善家。