NEW DELHI — A young man was mauled to death by a white tiger at the New Delhi zoo on Tuesday after he fell into a moat in the animal’s enclosure and was unable to climb out to safety, witnesses said.
新德里——周二，一名年轻男子在新德里一所动物园遭到一头白虎袭击，随后身亡。目击者称，这名男子落入了虎栏中的壕沟里，未能爬到安全地带。
The man, identified by the police as Maqsood Khan, 20, was spotted by other visitors, but the security personnel who came to the scene were not equipped with tranquilizer guns.
警方确认，这名男子名叫马克苏德·汗(Maqsood Khan)，今年20岁。当时，其他游客发现了他，但赶来现场的保安人员没有携带麻醉枪。
Anil Kumar, a police spokesman, said Mr. Khan was in the enclosure at the National Zoological Park for 10 minutes before he was killed. Photographs showed Mr. Khan several feet from the tiger, his hands folded as if in prayer.
警方发言人阿尼尔·库马尔(Anil Kumar)说，马克苏德·汗遇难前，在印度国家动物园(National Zoological Park)的虎栏里待了10分钟。照片显示，马克苏德·汗离老虎只有几英尺的距离，他双手紧扣，像是在祈祷。
Bystanders with cellphones took images of Mr. Khan cowering in the moat, the tiger pawing at him and later seizing him by the neck and lashing his body back and forth, finally settling in a grassy corner with its prey.
拿着手机的旁观者拍下了马克苏德·汗蜷缩在壕沟一角的情景，老虎用爪子扑向他，随后叼起他的脖子，把他甩来甩去。最后老虎终于带着猎物，在一个长满草的角落里安静下来。
In interviews with NDTV, a cable news channel, witnesses complained that members of the security staff who had come to the scene had not been able to help. “The initial first-response team was one guard with a baton,” said one woman who described the events on camera. “Even after the guard came, they were focusing more on clearing the crowds than saving the man.”
目击者在有线新闻频道新德里电视台(NDTV)的采访中抱怨称，来到现场的保安人员没有帮上忙。“最早赶来的应急人员只有一名拿着警棍的保安，”一名面对摄像机讲述事情经过的女性说。“即便在保安到来后，主要关注的也只是驱散人群，而不是营救这名男子。”
Amitabh Agnihotri, the director of the zoo, said that tranquilizer guns were stored at the zoo hospital, roughly 350 feet from the tiger’s cage. “We do have tranquilizer guns, but by the time we could organize them, he was dead,” he said.
动物园园长阿米塔布·阿格尼霍特里(Amitabh Agnihotri)说，麻醉枪存放在动物园的医院里，离老虎的笼子大约有350英尺（约100米）。他说，“我们确实有麻醉枪，但是在我们能做出安排时，他已经死了。”
Mr. Khan had stepped over a low outer fence to get closer to the tiger. Witnesses said they believed that he had slipped, but zoo officials said he had jumped into the moat, which is about 18 feet deep.
为了离老虎更近，马克苏德·汗跨过了外面的一道矮栅栏。目击者表示，他们认为他是滑倒掉进了大约18英尺深的壕沟，但动物园的官员却说他是跳进去的。
In a written statement, Mr. Agnihotri said Mr. Khan had actually “crossed the standoff barrier of the white tiger enclosure” and had “jumped into the enclosure,” rather than fallen.
阿格尼霍特里在一份书面声明中表示，马克苏德·汗实际上“越过了白虎虎栏的隔离栅栏”，并“跳进了虎舍”，而不是跌入。
The director said the guard who had been posted there sounded an alarm and sent wireless S O S messages to other staff members. Employees “tried to divert the attention of the tiger from the visitor but to no avail,” he said.
这名园长称，部署在那里的守卫拉响了警报，通过无线电向其他工作人员发出了紧急求救信号。他说，工作人员“试图转移老虎对那名游客的注意力，但无济于事”。
In his statement, Mr. Agnihotri said the enclosures of the zoo were “absolutely safe.”
在声明中，阿格尼霍特里称动物园各个动物围栏“绝对安全”。
Three years ago, a female tiger at the zoo jumped over a 12-foot fence into an adjacent enclosure, prompting officials to temporarily close the park.
三年前，该动物园的一只雌虎越过一道12英尺高的栅栏，跳进了相邻的一片围栏，于是官员暂时关闭该动物园。
According to news reports, it took the staff two hours to tranquilize the tiger and put her back into a cage.
新闻报道称，工作人员用了两个小时才让那只雌虎失去知觉，并将其放回笼子。
Zoos in India are regulated by a federal agency, the Central Zoo Authority, but are typically understaffed and overcrowded, said Bittu Sahgal, the editor of the wildlife and conservation magazine Sanctuary Asia. He said that officials often failed to register animal births or deaths publicly, and that supervision was scattershot.
野生动物和环保杂志《亚洲保护区》(Sanctuary Asia)的编辑毕图·萨加尔(Bittu Sahgal)表示，印度的公园归联邦机构中央动物园管理局(Central Zoo Authority)管辖，但通常都人手不足，并且过于拥挤。他说，官员们通常都做不到公开展示动物的出生和死亡日期，而且监管颇为松懈。