JAKARTA, Indonesia — An Indonesian military aircraft carrying 113 people crashed into a neighborhood in the city of Medan on Tuesday, killing all those aboard, according to the head of the country’s air force.
印度尼西亚雅加达——据来自印度尼西尼空军领导人的消息，一架载有113人的印尼军用飞机周二在棉兰市一个住宅区坠毁，机上人员全部遇难。
By Tuesday evening, 68 bodies had been recovered as search and rescue efforts continued. The extent of casualties among civilians on the ground was unknown.
截至周二晚，已在现场找到68具遗体，搜索和救援工作仍在继续。地面上平民的伤亡情况尚不清楚。
Air Chief Marshal Agus Supriatna said in a televised interview that there were no survivors from the crash of the C-130 Hercules. He said that 101 of the people on the plane were family members of military personnel. Twelve military personnel were also aboard, he said.
空军上将阿古斯·苏普里阿特纳(Agus Supriatna)在接受电视采访时说，坠毁的C-130大力神运输机上没有幸存者。他说，机上有101名军方人员的家属，还有12名军方人员。
Images carried on local television and posted online showed onlookers gathered around burning buildings at the scene of the crash, with several ambulances and fire trucks trying to make their way through the crowd. Medan is a city of two million on the island of Sumatra.
当地电视台以及网上发布的照片显示，围观者聚集在坠机现场燃烧的建筑物周围，几辆救护车和消防车试图从人群中通过。棉兰市有200万人口，位于苏门答腊岛。
Air Chief Marshal Agus Supriatna said the crash occurred shortly after the plane took off from the Soewondo Air Force Base in Medan. The pilot had asked for permission to return to base, he said.
空军上将阿古斯·苏普里阿特纳说，飞机从棉兰的苏翁多空军基地起飞后不久即坠毁。他说，飞行员曾要求被允许返回基地。
The plane was making a routine flight, with multiple stops scheduled. “It’s normal for family to be transported on these flights,” said Gerry Soejatman, an Indonesian aviation analyst.
这架飞机是在进行常规飞行，沿途计划在几个地方停降。 “用这种飞机运送军人家属很正常，”印尼航空业分析师格里·苏查特曼(Gerry Soejatman)说。
The Indonesian Air Force has had five other plane crashes over the past 10 years, with 155 people killed, according to the Aviation Safety Network website. The deadliest before Tuesday was the 2009 crash of a C-130 near the city of Madiun in East Java that killed 97 passengers and crew members and two people on the ground. That plane hit several houses on its approach to the runway.
据航空安全网(Aviation Safety Network)网站上的信息，印尼空军在过去10年中已发生过另外五次飞机坠毁事件，共导致155人死亡。周二坠毁事件发生之前，死人最多的一次发生在2009年，一架C-130在东爪哇的茉莉芬市附近坠毁，导致机上97名乘客和机组人员、以及地面上的两人死亡。那架飞机在开始进入跑道时撞到几座房子上。
Indonesia has a troubled history of air safety, including several crashes in and around Medan. In 2005, a Boeing 737-200 operated by Mandala Airlines, a low-cost carrier, overran a runway during a failed takeoff there, killing 100 passengers and crew members and 49 people on the ground.
印尼航空安全的历史坎坷，在棉兰市内和附近就有过几次飞机失事。2005年，一架由廉价运营商曼达拉航空公司(Mandala Airlines)经营的波音737-200型客机起飞不成功，在起飞过程中冲出跑道，造成机上100名乘客和机组人员、以及地面上49人死亡。
An Airbus A300 flown by Garuda Indonesia crashed on approach to Medan in 1997, killing 234 people. Miscommunication between the pilots and air traffic control and a thick haze caused by forest fires were blamed in that crash. In December, Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 crashed in the Java Sea on a flight from the Indonesian city of Surabaya to Singapore, killing all 162 passengers and crew members aboard.
1997年，一架加鲁达印尼航空公司(Garuda Indonesia)运营的空客A300在棉兰市准备着陆时坠毁，致234人死亡。人们将失事原因归咎于飞行员与空中交通管制之间的沟通误会，以及森林大火造成的重度雾霾。去年十二月，印尼亚洲航空8501航班从印尼泗水市飞往新加坡途中，在爪哇海坠毁，导致机上162名乘客和机组人员全部遇难。
In April, an F-16 fighter jet burst into flames on a runway at an air base in Jakarta, the capital. It was one of five F-16s that arrived from the United States last year. The Indonesian Air Force said at the time that it was grounding the four other jets while the cause of the accident was investigated.
今年四月，一架F-16战斗机在首都雅加达一个空军基地的跑道上突然起火。该机是去年才从美国到货的5架F-16战斗机之一。印尼空军当时表示，在调查事故原因的同时，禁飞另外四架战斗机。
Mr. Soejatman, the aviation analyst, said the military had complained in the past that an American arms embargo, which was put in place in response to abuses in East Timor, had harmed its ability to maintain aircraft. But that embargo was lifted in 2005 and is no longer a valid excuse, he said.
航空分析师苏查特曼说，军方过去曾抱怨，作为对该国在东帝汶虐行的反应，美国曾对印尼实施武器禁运，这损害了印尼军方维修飞机的能力。他说，但禁运已于2005年解除，这已经不再是一个合理的借口。
“We have to look at why this is happening,” he said. “Back then it was easy to explain. Now we do not have an embargo. We have to see if this is because of a problem or if this was just a mishap.”
“我们需要搞清楚这次失事的原因，”他说。“以前，这很容易解释。现在不再有禁运了。我们必须搞清楚，这是因为存在问题，还是只是一次意外事故。”