NEW DELHI — Almost as soon as Narendra Modi became prime minister of India, whispers began circulating of mysterious phone calls from his office, upbraiding startled officials for infractions like inappropriate clothing or chummy-looking public meetings with tycoons.
新德里——纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)才刚刚当上印度总理，便有传言称他的办公室打出了一些神秘的电话，对吃惊的官员大加责骂，批评他们有不当行为，比如衣着不得体，或是与大亨们公开会面，而且看上去颇为亲密。
The message was received. Mr. Modi, who is famously austere in his own habits, intends to impose discipline.
外界领会了这一讯息。众所周知，莫迪的个人习惯很简朴，现在他打算加强纪律。
The United States will get a taste of Mr. Modi’s style starting Friday. Booked for back-to-back high-pressure appearances during five days in New York and Washington, Mr. Modi, 64, has also announced that he will maintain a strict religious fast for the duration of the visit, which coincides with the Hindu festival of Navratri, consuming only tea and lemonade with honey.
从周五开始，美国便能感受到莫迪的风格了。在纽约和华盛顿的五天行程中，莫迪安排了一场接一场高强度的露面活动，但64岁的他还是宣布，自己将在出访期间遵守严格的宗教斋戒。莫迪访美的时间，正好与印度教的九夜节(Navratri)重合。九夜节要求人们只喝茶和蜂蜜柠檬水。
The visit is a big moment for Mr. Modi, who offers himself as a metaphor for the India he wants to build — ambitious, confident and impatient with slackness of any kind.
对莫迪来说，此次访美是一个重要的时刻。他有雄心、有自信，无法忍受任何懈怠，他希望把印度这个国家也建设得像自己一样。
Rarely has any world leader come full circle the way Mr. Modi has: Denied a United States visa for nearly a decade as punishment for his handling of religious riots that broke out in the state he then led, Mr. Modi flies into New York as an immensely popular leader and a sought-after strategic partner, viewed as uniquely capable of balancing the might of a rising China.
鲜少有哪位世界领导人像莫迪那样，要兜这么大一个圈子。在自己领导的邦里爆发宗教骚乱时，莫迪处置不当，作为惩罚，他在过去近十年的时间里，一直都无法获得美国签证。而现在，莫迪作为一名大受欢迎的领导人、一名备受青睐的战略合作伙伴，飞赴纽约。外界认为，唯独他有能力制衡正在崛起的中国。
In the four months since he has taken office, Mr. Modi has disappointed those who were hoping for an Indian Margaret Thatcher, proving to be cautious and incremental in his use of economic policy. Instead, he has set about changing the architecture of the state, diluting the powers of ministries and concentrating them in his office. Mr. Modi is building a machine for governing, one he intends to operate for a long time.
在上台后的四个月里，莫迪让那些原本希望他能成为印度的玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)的人愿望落空了。事实证明，莫迪在使用经济政策方面颇为谨慎，采取了渐进的方式。但他已经开始改革国家的架构，削弱各部长的权力，并将其集中到自己的职权当中。莫迪正在打造一台治理机器，而且想让这台机器长期运行。
It is not yet clear whether he can pull it off. To succeed, Mr. Modi must bring about fundamental changes in India’s economy and steer a stable course in a country prone to incendiary conflicts. Observers here, surveying still-unfilled positions in his government, wonder whether Mr. Modi will be able to trust outsiders enough to bring in policy talent. And critics say his concentrated power will make it more difficult for his own officials to question him.
尚不清楚他能否成功。要想取得成功，他必须对印度的经济开展根本性的改革，引领一个容易爆发激烈冲突的国家，走上稳定的轨道。这里的观察人士对莫迪政府中仍然空缺的职位进行了研究，他们疑惑莫迪对外部人士能否足够信任，从而引入政策方面的人才。而批评人士称，集中在他手中的权力，将让他手下的官员更难质疑他。
M. J. Akbar, a spokesman for Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, dismissed those worries, saying Mr. Modi’s early moves aimed at “setting the rules for his own government” and putting an end to a bureaucratic culture so loose that officials “used to tweet and send SMS’s in the middle of a cabinet meeting.”
莫迪领导的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)发言人M·J·阿克巴尔(M. J. Akbar)对这些担心不以为意，称莫迪早期的举措旨在“为自己领导的政府制定规则”，遏制官僚作风，并表示印度的官僚文化十分散漫，以至于官员“过去会在内阁会议期间发推文和短信”。
The prime minister, Mr. Akbar said, “is just a tough guy. Delhi hasn’t seen a tough guy in a long time.”
阿克巴尔说，总理“只是作风硬朗，德里很久没见到硬汉了”。
On the day Mr. Modi was endorsed as prime minister, he stood before Parliament and seemed close to tears, promising to focus his attention on “rural areas, farmers, untouchables, the weak and the pained,” because “our weakest, our poorest have sent us here.”
在当选总理那天，莫迪站在议会里几乎落泪。他承诺把注意力放在“农村地区、农民、贱民、弱势群体和受苦受难者”身上，因为是“那些最弱势、最贫穷的人民，让我们来到了这里”。
This was a new tone for Mr. Modi. His reputation had preceded him to New Delhi: His rise through his own party proved him a ruthless political operator, capable of deftly sidelining well-established older leaders. An angry presence during the campaign, he had been championed by right-wing economists as someone prepared to slash away at the country’s gargantuan subsidy programs.
对莫迪来说，这是一种新语调。在他本人涉足新德里之前，他的声望就已经传到了这里：他在自己党内的层层晋升，证明他是一名决绝的政治人物，能够巧妙地让有权有势的老一辈领导人靠边站。在竞选期间，莫迪是一个愤怒的角色，他得到了右翼经济学家的拥护，后者认为他愿意削减印度庞大的补贴计划。
Since taking office, though, Mr. Modi has presented a softer face to the country, guided by a populist’s unerring instinct for his audience. In his major addresses, delivered without notes and in earthy, colloquial Hindi, he has spoken as a kindly moral instructor, focusing on such humble causes as the need to build toilets. Last week, perhaps responding to calls to move more quickly on reforms, Mr. Modi said he naturally gravitated to practical matters.
然而自上台以来，作为民粹主义者的莫迪对自己的听众产生了一种不会出错的直觉，他凭借这种直觉，对整个国家表现出了更柔和的一面。在重要的讲话中，脱稿发言的莫迪用的是朴实、口语化的印地语。他像一名仁慈的道德老师那样讲话，关注的是修建厕所的必要性这种微小的议题。上周，或许是为了回应加快开展改革的呼声，莫迪说自己天生容易被实际的事情所吸引。
“There have been discussions about vision, about big vision and grand vision,” he said, in comments published by The Indian Express. “I only want to say that I am a small person, and I think about small people. By thinking small for small people I am trying to make them grow. Nobody was thinking about these small people.”
“一直有人在讨论愿景，讨论大的、宏伟的愿景，”他在《印度快报》(The Indian Express)上发表的评论中说。“我只想说，我是一个小人物，我考虑的也是小人物。我正在通过为小人物考虑一些小事情，尝试让他们得到发展。过去没有人考虑过这些小人物。”
His bristles have mainly shown in the arena of foreign affairs. Last week, Mr. Modi was faced with a snap decision during a rare visit by the Chinese president, an event he hosted on his birthday, choreographed to cast the two leaders as potential partners. Chinese officials had dangled an investment package of as much as $100 billion, but as the two men sat down to dinner, Chinese and Indian troops were facing off against each other in the highlands of Ladakh, Kashmir, near the disputed border between the two nations.
他的强硬主要体现在外交领域。上周，在中国国家主席罕见地访问印度期间，莫迪很短时间内就做出一个决定。他把活动安排在自己生日当天，刻意使两位领导人看起来像是潜在的合作伙伴。中国官员提出了一个高达1000亿美元（约合6100亿元人民币）的诱人投资计划，不过当两人共赴晚宴之时，中印两国的军队正在克什米尔拉达克的高地对峙，此地位于两国存在争议的边界附近。
With little time to decide, Mr. Modi took the unusual step of publicly prodding his Chinese guest over the border issue at a news conference, a moment that cast a shadow over the message of deepening trade.
在没有太多时间考虑的情况下，莫迪出人意料地在新闻发布会上就边界问题，公开呛了中国客人一下。莫迪的这一动作，给两国加深贸易关系的表态蒙上了一层阴影。
Week by week, Mr. Modi has built up the prime minister’s office into a dominant force in government. First, cabinet officials were discouraged from speaking to the news media without permission. Ministers were barred from hiring personal staff members without approval.
莫迪一周接一周地把总理办公室变成了印度政府的一股主导力量。首先，内阁官员最好不要在未经允许的情况下接受媒体采访，各个部长也不能在未经批准的情况下聘请各自的部下。
And unlike his predecessors, Mr. Modi is said to be making many appointments himself. Senior officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, complained to The Hindustan Times that the government had begun to circulate the agenda for cabinet meetings just hours before they were to begin, making it nearly impossible for them to fully participate in policy making.
据称，与前任们不同，莫迪自己任命了许多人。一些高官匿名向《印度斯坦时报》(Hindustan Times)抱怨道，政府曾在距离内阁会议开始只有数小时前，发放会议议程，所以他们几乎无法完全参与决策。
“Even in Indira Gandhi’s time, you had advisers who were very powerful, they were larger than life and capable of giving input,” said Siddharth Varadarajan, a journalist and senior fellow at Shiv Nadar University. “Here you have a prime minister whose strength is reminiscent of Indira Gandhi’s, but I think it goes beyond that, because you’d at least have that layer of advisers.”
“即便在英迪拉·甘地(Indira Gandhi)时代，都有一些非常强大的顾问，他们都满怀自信，能够提出建议，”希夫·纳达尔大学(Shiv Nadar University)高级研究员、记者西哈斯·瓦拉德拉简(Siddharth Varadarajan)说。“现任总理的力量让我们想起了英迪拉·甘地，但我认为莫迪的权力甚至更大，因为那时至少还有一群顾问。”
Journalists now have virtually no opportunity to ask questions of top officials. As the Editors Guild of India complained in a letter published Tuesday, much of the bureaucracy has gone silent, and journalists have found themselves scrambling to get even basic information from the prime minister’s office, which has yet to appoint a contact person for the news media.
记者现在几乎没有向高层官员发问的机会。正如印度编辑协会(Editors Guild of India)周二发表的一封信件中抱怨的那样，政府官员大都三缄其口，记者则要手忙脚乱地试图从总理办公室取得最基本的信息。总理办公室也还没有任命媒体联络人。
India’s business titans are another group facing an unfamiliar new landscape. Long accustomed to maintaining personal, informal contacts with officials in the ministries that grant crucial approvals, they must now fall in line with a new protocol: Meetings are to be formal, held in government offices, and presumed to be under the scrutiny of the prime minister’s apparatus.
印度的商业巨头也面临着完全陌生的新情况。长久以来，他们已经习惯了与有权做出重要审批决定的部门官员，保持非正式的私人联系。而现在，他们必须遵循一条新的规则：会面必须在政府办公室里正式举行，而且根据推测，还会受到总理人马的监督。
This is, on one hand, a way of ensuring that payoffs are not offered or received. It also gives corporate leaders the sense that they are being kept at arm’s length, at least for the moment, said one executive from a large Indian company, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
一方面，这种方式可以确保收受贿赂的行为不会发生。但一家印度大型企业的高管在要求匿名的条件下表示，这样还会让企业领导人觉得，政府要与他们保持距离，至少目前如此。
“Is Modi taking the demonstrative step of being wary of industry?” the executive said. “If that’s just messaging, it’s also risky, because you are almost sending the message that industry is the cause of corruption. If he actually believes it, that’s terrible. Even if it’s just signaling, that’s bad enough.”
“莫迪是要表示自己对企业界颇有顾虑吗？”这名高管称。“即使他只是想表明态度，那也仍然很危险，因为这几乎是在传达这样一条讯息：企业界是引起腐败的原因。如果他真的这么认为，就很糟糕。即使这只是一种信号，也仍然称得上糟糕。”
Mr. Modi’s supporters say his centralization of authority has begun to yield results: Ministries that previously worked as independent fiefs have fallen in line, and long-delayed projects have begun to move. India’s economy is showing signs of a revival, growing at an annualized rate of 5.7 percent in the first quarter of the year, after languishing under 5 percent for nearly two years.
莫迪的支持者表示，他集中权力的做法已经开始产生效果：最初条块分割的各政府部门得以正常运转，拖延已久的项目也开始运行。印度经济正显示出复苏的迹象，在将近两年增速不到5%之后，今年第一季度的年化增长率终于达到了5.7%。
But Mr. Modi’s time to make decisions is limited, and a backlog is said to be piling up. A surprising number of senior positions remain unfilled — notably, that of defense minister, despite this government’s keen focus on defense. Arun Jaitley, a veteran lawmaker close to Mr. Modi, is temporarily serving as both finance minister and defense minister.
不过，莫迪做决定的时间有限，而且据称已经积压了大量工作。还有许多高级职务处于空缺状态，这令人十分惊讶——尤其值得一提的是国防部长的职位，尽管本届政府非常关注国防事务。与莫迪关系密切的资深议员阿伦·贾特里(Arun Jaitley)目前正在临时兼任财政部长和国防部长。