SUGIHWARAS, Indonesia — An explosive volcanic eruption on Indonesia's most populous island blasted ash and debris 18 kilometers (12 miles) into the air Friday, killing three people while forcing authorities to evacuate more than 100,000 and close seven airports.
印度尼西亚苏奇瓦拉斯——一座位于印度尼西亚人口最多的岛上的火山周五爆发，将火山灰和岩屑喷射到18公里的高空，这次火山喷发已导致三人死亡，迫使政府疏散了10万多居民，关闭了7个机场。
The overnight eruption of Java island's Mount Kelud could be heard up to 200 kilometers (125 miles) away, Indonesia's disaster agency said.
印尼灾难救援机构称，爪哇岛的克卢德火山(Mount Kelud)在夜间喷发，200公里以外都能听到爆发的声响。
"The eruption sounded like thousands of bombs exploding," Ratno Pramono, a 35-year-old farmer, said after returning from an evacuation center to check on his property in the village of Sugihwaras, around five kilometers (three miles) from the crater. "I thought doomsday was upon us. Women and children were screaming and crying."
35岁的农民拉特诺·普拉莫诺(Ratno Pramono)从避难中心返回自己位于苏奇瓦拉斯村的家里查看了房屋，他说，“火山喷发的声音就像是上千枚炸弹爆炸。我当时想世界末日降临了。女人和孩子都在哭叫。”他所在的村子离火山口约5公里远。
Ash and grit fell to earth in towns and cities across the region, including Surabaya, Indonesia's second-largest city after Jakarta, with a population of about 3 million. It also fell even farther afield in Yogyakarta, where motorists switched on headlights in daylight.
火山灰和碎屑降落到附近地区的乡镇和城市，包括有约300万人口的泗水，这是印尼仅次于雅加达的第二大城市。火山灰甚至飘到了更远的日惹地区，那里骑摩托车的人需要在白天打开前灯照明。
A 60-year-old woman and an 80-year-old man were killed in the village of Pandansari, about seven kilometers (four miles) from the mountain, when the roofs of their homes collapsed under the weight of the ash and volcanic debris unleashed during the eruption, the disaster agency said. A 70-year-old man died after being hit by a collapsed wall while waiting to be evacuated from Pandansari, where the volcanic ash lay up to 20 centimeters (eight inches) deep in some places.
这次火山爆发导致约7公里外的潘丹萨利村一名60岁的女子和一名80岁的男子死亡，他们的屋顶因承受不了降落的火山灰和岩屑的重量而塌毁，印尼灾难救援机构称。潘丹萨利村一名70岁的男子在等待疏散时被倒塌的墙壁砸死，这里一些地方降落的火山灰约有20厘米厚。
The large international airport in Surabaya and airports in the cities of Malang, Yogyakarta, Solo, Bandung, Semarang and Cilacap were closed due to reduced visibility and the dangers posed to aircraft engines by ash, Transport Ministry spokesman Bambang Ervan said. Virgin Australia said it had canceled its Friday flights from Australia to several locations due to the eruption, including the resort islands of Bali in Indonesia and Phuket in Thailand.
泗水的大型国际机场以及玛琅、日惹特区、梭罗、万隆、三宝垄和芝拉扎等城市的机场都因能见度降低以及火山灰可能会给飞机引擎带来危险而被迫关闭，印尼交通部发言人班邦·伊尔万(Bambang Ervan)说。维珍澳洲航空公司(Virgin Australia)称，因火山爆发已取消了周五从澳大利亚飞往一些地方的航班，包括飞往印尼度假胜地巴厘岛和泰国普吉岛的航班。
The disaster agency said tremors were still wracking the volcano, but that scientists didn't expect another major eruption. It said all villages within 10 kilometers (6 miles) of Kelud — more than 100,000 people — had been evacuated to temporary shelters, but that some villagers were returning to their homes to begin cleaning up.
印尼灾难救援机构称，火山依然在颤动，但科学家预计不会再出现另一次剧烈喷发。据称克卢德火山周围10公里以内村子里的居民都已经疏散到临时避难所，疏散的人数超过10万，但一些村民已开始回家进行清理。
The 1,731-meter-high (5,680-foot-high) Mount Kelud in eastern Java — Indonesia's most densely populated island and home to more than half of the country's 240 million people — has been rumbling for several weeks and was under close observation. The mountain is about 600 kilometers (373 miles) east of Jakarta, the capital.
位于东爪哇岛的克卢德火山高1731米，最近几周一直在发出声响，在密切观察之下，东爪哇岛是印尼人口最稠密的岛屿，该国2.4亿人口中的一半以上都居住在这里。这座火山位于印尼首都雅加达东部约600公里的地方。
Muhammad Hendrasto, head of Indonesia's volcano monitoring agency, said the mountain erupted violently about 90 minutes after authorities raised its alert status to the highest level. The disaster agency said it had spewed millions of cubic meters of debris into the atmosphere.
印尼火山监测机构负责人穆罕默德·韩卓斯托(Muhammad Hendrasto)说，在官方将警戒升至最高级别约90分钟后，这座火山开始猛烈喷发。灾难救援机构称，这次爆发将数百万立方米的岩屑喷射到大气层中。
Kediri, a normally bustling town about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from the mountain, was largely deserted as residents stayed indoors to avoid the choking ash.
谏义里是一个距离该火山约30公里远的通常很热闹的小镇，现在镇里基本上看不到人，因为居民为了躲避呛人的火山灰而呆在了屋内。
"The smell of sulfur and ash hung so thickly in the air that breathing was painful," said Kediri resident Insaf Wibowo.
谏义里的居民因萨福·维博沃(Insaf Wibowo)说，“空气中充满刺鼻的硫磺气味，还充满了火山灰，让呼吸变得很痛苦。”
Some residents were shoveling the ash and grit into sacks to use for the construction of buildings or to fertilize crops. One collector said that middlemen had already told him they would pay up to $56 for a small truck filled with the debris.
一些居民正在将火山灰和碎屑铲起来装进袋子里，以用作建筑材料或作物肥料。一位铲灰的人说，中间商已经告诉他，会以56美元（约合340元人民币）一小卡车的价格收购火山灰。
Kelud is among about 130 active volcanoes in Indonesia. The archipelagic nation is prone to volcanic eruptions and earthquakes because of its location on the "Ring of Fire" — a series of fault lines stretching from the Western Hemisphere through Japan and Southeast Asia.
克卢德火山是印度尼西亚的约130座活火山之一。这个群岛国家易受火山和地震灾害的影响，因为它处在“太平洋火圈”上，这是从西半球延伸到日本和东南亚的系列断层带。
Due to the fertile volcanic soil and the shortage of space on Java, hundreds of thousands of people live close to active volcanoes. They are used to the rumblings, but their proximity to the peaks presents difficulties for authorities.
由于火山土壤肥沃，再加上爪哇岛的空间不够，上百万的居民住在离活火山很近的地方。他们已经习惯了火山的轰鸣声，但他们与火山口如此之近的距离，给政府的工作带来困难。
Kelud's last major eruption was in 1990, when it kicked out searing fumes and lava that killed more than 30 people and injured hundreds. In 1919, a powerful explosion that reportedly could be heard hundreds of kilometers away killed at least 5,160 people.
克卢德火山上次爆发是在1990年，当时它喷发出的灼热浓烟和熔岩致使30多人死亡，数百人受伤。1919年，一次剧烈的喷发造成至少5160人死亡，据称火山爆发声在好几百公里之外都听得到。
Earlier this month, Mount Sinabung in North Sumatra province erupted as authorities were allowing thousands of villagers who had been evacuated to return to its slopes, killing 16 people. Sinabung has been erupting for four months, forcing the evacuation of more than 30,000 people.
本月早些时候，北苏门答腊省的锡纳朋火山的再次喷发造成了16人死亡，当时当局正允许已被疏散的数千村民返回山坡地带。四个月来，锡纳朋一直在喷发，迫使3万多人被撤离。