WHEN a distressed father is reporting his daughter’s disappearance to a policeman in India, there are some questions he doesn’t want to hear. “What is your caste?” is one of them. Yet, the father, Sohan Lal, said this was the first thing the police asked him last Tuesday, when he begged them for help. After revealing his low-caste background as a Shakya, Mr. Lal said the officers mocked him and refused to lift a finger.
在印度，当一位痛心疾首的父亲向警察报案，说自己的女儿失踪的时候，警察提了一些他不想听的问题。“你是什么种姓？”就是其中之一。然而这位名叫索罕·拉尔(Sohan Lal)的父亲说，自己上周二向警方求助的时候，这就是警方问他的第一个问题。他透露自己是低种姓的释迦人(Shakya)之后，拉尔说，警察大加嘲笑，对他的报案不屑一顾。
Hours later, Mr. Lal’s daughter, 12, and a female cousin, 14, were found hanging by their scarves from a mango tree in Katra Saadatganj, in the state of Uttar Pradesh. They had been raped. His daughter had last been seen with a group of brothers from the Yadav caste, which is the dominant caste in the village.
几个小时后，有人发现了拉尔12岁的女儿和她14岁表姐的尸体。有人用她们的围巾把她们吊在一棵芒果树上，两个女孩都曾遭到强奸。拉尔的女儿生前最后一次被人看见时，正在和亚达夫种姓的兄弟几人在一起。在北方邦的格德拉萨达甘吉村，亚达夫(Yadav)是处在主导地位的种姓。
Our understanding of their deaths will be incomplete until we recognize the role of the caste system in India’s rape crisis.
如果我们不承认种姓制度在印度的强奸危机中扮演的角色，我们对这两个女孩之死的理解就不算全面。
For much of India’s history the lower castes, especially the Dalits (once known as untouchables), have been routinely raped by the landowning upper castes. Better legal protections, urbanization and social mobility have helped reduce caste-based discrimination, but not enough. Dalit women are still the most likely to be victims of gang rapes. An analysis of Uttar Pradesh’s crime statistics for 2007 by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties showed that 90 percent of rape victims in 2007 were Dalit women.
印度历史上有很多时候，拥有土地的上层种姓会强奸较低的种姓，特别是达利特人（Dalits，一度被称为贱民），这属于一种常态。法律保护的加强、城市化和社会流动性在一定程度上减少了种姓歧视，但是情况仍然糟糕。达利特女性仍旧是最有可能遭到轮奸的人群。人权组织“人民公民自由联盟”(People’s Union for Civil Liberties)对2007年的北方邦犯罪统计数据进行了分析，发现那一年90%的强奸受害者都是达利特女性。
Since December 2012, when a 23-year-old woman from the Kurmi caste, another low caste, died after being gang raped and attacked with an iron rod by five men in a moving bus, India has been undergoing a process of soul searching. Yet the caste system has not been mentioned enough in the debate. While attacks against Western tourists and women in urban centers have attracted a great deal of attention, rapes of lower-caste women routinely fail to provoke an outcry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for example, has yet to condemn the rape and murder in Katra Saadatganj.
2012年12月，一名23岁女性，在一辆行驶中的巴士上被五名男子轮奸并用铁棍袭击后身亡。那名女子属于库尔米(Kurmi)种姓，也是一种低种姓。事件发生后印度经历一番深入的反思，然而，人们在辩论中对种姓制度谈论得不够多。虽然西方游客和女性在城市中心遭受攻击吸引了大量关注，但低种姓女性遭到强奸却往往无法引发公众的愤怒。比如，总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)目前尚未对格德拉萨达甘吉发生的奸杀案做出谴责。
It is no surprise that the caste system, and the unequal society it produces, leads to moral blind spots that hide rapes from public view. Caste historically determined where you lived, what you did, whom you married, even what you ate. In many villages, those rules are still in place, decades after caste discrimination was banned.
毫不奇怪，种姓制度及其催生的社会不平等导致了一些道德盲点，把强奸案屏蔽在公众视野之外。历史上，种姓决定了你住在哪里、做什么工作、跟谁结婚，甚至还决定了你吃什么食物。在种姓歧视被禁止数十年后，这些规则仍在很多村庄发挥着作用。
Much of the caste-based sexual violence emerges out of a feudal sense of entitlement among some upper-caste men. “You have not really experienced the land until you have experienced the Dalit women” is a popular saying among the landowning Jats, a politically powerful group that, despite being relatively low caste themselves, are above the Dalits.
很多基于种姓的性暴力，源自上层种姓的某些男子当中存在的，封建领主似的特权意识。在拥有土地的贾特人(Jat)中，一个很流行的说法是：“没感受过达利特女人，就不算感受过土地。”贾特人在政治上很有权势，尽管本身种姓比较低，但却高于达利特人。
Though upper-caste men are rarely imprisoned for raping Dalits, they have a widely accepted defense at their disposal, should they ever need one: They would never touch a lower-caste woman for fear of being “polluted.” In one famous 1995 case, a Dalit woman’s allegations of gang rape were dismissed by a judge who claimed that “an upper-caste man could not have defiled himself by raping a lower-caste woman.”
虽然上层种姓很少因为强奸达利特人而被投入牢狱，但如果他们需要为自己辩护的话，也随时找得到一种被广为接受的说辞：他们决不会去碰低种姓女人，生怕被其“玷污”。因为在1995年的一起著名案件中，一名达利特女性提出的轮奸指控被法官驳回，理由是“上层种姓的人，不可能强奸一个低种姓的女人来弄脏自己”。
Caste discrimination is exacerbated by corrupt and inefficient governance, which encourages people to seek political power through caste allegiances. Caste bias seems to have been at work in the Katra Saadatganj case. One need only look at the names of the accused brothers (Pappu Yadav, Awadhesh Yadav and Urvesh Yadav) and that of the head of the police station (Ram Vilas Yadav) for evidence that they belonged to the same caste. Two more police constables involved are also Yadavs.
政府腐败而低效的治理，加剧了种姓歧视的程度。这种局面又鼓励人们通过效忠种姓来谋求政治权力。种姓偏见似乎在格德拉萨达甘吉这起案件中发挥了作用。你只需看看被告几兄弟（帕普·亚达夫[Pappu Yadav]、阿瓦艾希·亚达夫[Awadhesh Yadav]、乌维希·亚达夫[Urvesh Yadav]）和警署负责人（兰姆·维拉斯·亚达夫[Ram Vilas Yadav]）的名字就明白，他们属于同一种姓。而且另外两个警员也是亚达夫人。
When the police and judiciary cannot be relied on to resolve disputes, rape often becomes a means of retribution. This has been apparent in Hindu-Muslim riots as well as in intercaste conflict. “Rape is a weapon to silence the assertions of the community. A way to teach us a lesson. To show us, including our men, that they are helpless and cannot protect their own women,” said Asha Kowtal, a Dalit activist.
当人们无法依靠警方和司法部门来解决纠纷时，强奸常常会成为一种报复手段。这在印度教徒-穆斯林之间的骚乱以及种姓之间的冲突中得到了清晰的体现。达利特活动人士阿莎·克塔尔(Asha Kowtal)说，“强奸是一种武器，目的是让社区噤声。这是一种教训我们的方式，向我们的男人和女人展示，我们很无助，连自己的女人都保护不了。”
Such thinking seems to have been at work in March, in the state of Haryana, when four lower-caste girls were gang-raped and dumped on a train station platform more than 100 miles from their homes. There is evidence that a conflict between Dalits and Jats precipitated the attack. According to the Indian newspaper Mint, a land dispute led Jats to declare “a social and economic boycott against the Dalits,” perhaps culminating in the gang rape.
这种想法似乎贯穿在哈里亚纳邦今年3月发生的一起案件中：四个较低种姓的女孩遭到轮奸，并被扔到离家100多英里外的一个火车站台上。有证据表明，达利特人和贾特人之间的冲突引发了这次攻击。印度《铸币报》(Mint)报道称，由于一场土地纠纷，贾特人宣称要“对达利特人进行社会和经济抵制”，这或许最终导致了这起轮奸案。
We will never be able to address India’s rape crisis if we remain blind to the machinations of caste discrimination. In the past, it has taken gruesome cases of violence to ensure coverage of rape. Indeed, perhaps the only reason the Katra Saadatganj hangings attracted attention was that grisly photographs of the dangling bodies were published in Indian newspapers and circulated on social media, despite complaints by Dalit activists that this was disrespectful.
如果我们继续对种姓歧视的问题视而不见，就永远无法解决印度的强奸危机。在过去，只有在涉及严重暴力的情况下，强奸案才肯定会得到报道。事实上，格德拉萨达甘吉的这桩奸杀案之所以引起关注，唯一的原因可能就是尸体悬挂在树上的可怖照片登上了印度报纸，并在社交媒体上传播，尽管达利特活动人士抱怨这种做法是对死者的不敬。
But we cannot rely on the shock value of particularly horrific cases to lead to change; we need structural solutions. The government should start by amending the 1989 Prevention of Atrocities Act, which is designed to address caste-based violence. The conviction rate under the act is notoriously low — according to a 2012 report, more than half of all cases are closed before they reach the courts. In the case of Mr. Lal’s daughter and her cousin, the police did not register the crime under the act at all. Amendment proposals that would ensure crucial witness protection, more legal support and special courts are sitting in Parliament right now, awaiting approval.
但是，我们不能依靠骇人听闻的案件产生的影响来引发变革；我们需要结构性的解决方案。政府首先应该修改1989年的《防止暴行法》(Prevention of Atrocities Act)，该法案的目的是解决基于种姓的暴力，但它的定罪率实在很低——2012年的一份报告显示，超过一半的案件在法庭起诉之前就结案了。在拉尔的女儿及其堂姐的这起案件中，警方没有根据《防止暴行法》登记案件。修订这项法律的提案中规定，重要证人应得到保护，要提供更多的法律支持，并开设特别法庭。目前这项提案正在议会等待批准。
There is no doubt that it was wrong for the police to ask Mr. Lal about caste. But for the rest of us, when it comes to understanding India’s rape crisis, not talking about caste is just as bad.
毫无疑问，警察问拉尔的种姓是错误的。但对我们其他人来说，要理解印度的强奸危机，却不谈论种姓问题，同样也是错误的。