BANGALORE, India — The way an Indian diplomat was treated by law enforcement officials in New York last week has touched off a furor in India, where politicians from across the political spectrum expressed outrage and the New Delhi police retaliated by removing security barriers that were meant to protect the American Embassy.
印度班加罗尔——纽约执法人员上周对待一名印度女外交官的方式在印度掀起了一股愤怒的浪潮，印度政坛各派人物都对此表示愤慨，新德里的警察还拆除了美国大使馆外的安全防护栏，以此进行报复。
The diplomat, Devyani Khobragade, the deputy consul general in New York, was arrested last Thursday and accused of submitting false documents to obtain a work visa for her housekeeper and paying the housekeeper far less than the minimum legal wage. Indian officials said that Ms. Khobragade was arrested and handcuffed on the street as she was leaving her daughter at school, and that she was kept in a holding cell with drug addicts before she was released on $250,000 bail.
前述外交官是印度驻纽约副领事德芙雅尼·霍布拉加德(Devyani Khobragade)，她于上周四被逮捕，被控提交有误文件帮自己的管家获得工作签证，并向管家支付远低于最低法定标准的工资。印度官员说，霍布拉加德是在送女儿上学时被捕的，执法人员在大街上铐上了她，随后把她关进一间关押吸毒者的牢房，她交了25万美元（约合150万元人民币）保释金后才被释放。
By far the most troubling part for Indians are assertions that Ms. Khobragade, 39, was strip-searched after her arrest. Some Indian newspapers published reports claiming that she was subjected to repeated cavity searches. The Indian national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon, has called such treatment “despicable” and “barbaric.”
到现在为止，印度人最不能接受的事情是，39岁的霍布拉加德在被捕后曾遭裸体搜身。一些印度媒体报道称，她还被迫接受了多次体腔搜查。印度国家安全顾问希夫山卡·梅农(Shivshankar Menon)称，这样的对待“卑鄙”而且“野蛮”。
The Indian government issued a statement the day after the arrest saying it was “shocked and appalled at the manner in which she has been humiliated by the U.S. authorities.” The foreign secretary, Sujatha Singh, summoned the American ambassador to India, Nancy J. Powell, and lodged a strong protest at the “unacceptable treatment” of the diplomat.
逮捕次日，印度政府发表声明称，该国“对美国官方侮辱她的方式感到震惊”。外交部长苏亚塔·辛格(Sujatha Singh)召见了美国驻印度大使南希·J·鲍威尔(Nancy J. Powell)，并对这名印度外交官遭受的“让人无法接受的对待”表示了强烈抗议。
The United States Marshals Service, in a statement, confirmed that Ms. Khobragade had been strip-searched, following “the same search procedures as other U.S.M.S. arrestees held within the general prisoner population in the Southern District of New York.” It said she was “placed in the available and appropriate cell.”
美国法警局(United States Marshals Service)在一份声明中证实了霍布拉加德遭受裸体搜身一事，称这么做是在遵循“美国法警局用于纽约南区普通狱囚的惯常搜查流程”。这份声明还称，她被“安置在唯一的一间有空位而且适当的牢房里”。
Indian officials, in addition to removing the maze of concrete security barriers surrounding the American Embassy compound, Indian news reports said, have demanded that the embassy provide details about all the Indians it employs, as well as the names and salaries of teachers at the American Embassy School; that the embassy commissary stop importing liquor; and that diplomatic identification cards for consular staff members and their families be returned.
根据印度新闻报道，印度官员不光拆除了美国使馆建筑外的混凝土安全围栏，还要求美国使馆提供其所有印度雇员的详细信息，以及美国使馆学校教师的名字和工资；要求使馆外交人员停止进口烈酒；要求领事人员及其家人交回外交人员身份证。
The State Department expressed concern on Tuesday about removal of the security barriers near the embassy. “We have conveyed at high levels to the government of India our expectations that India will continue to fulfill all of its obligations,” said Marie Harf, the deputy State Department spokeswoman.
周二，国务院对使馆安全围栏遭到拆除一事表示担忧。国务院副发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)说，“我们已经向印度政府高层表示，我们希望印度继续履行自己的所有义务。”
Ms. Harf acknowledged that the State Department’s diplomatic security officials had played a role in Ms. Khobragade’s detention but said that federal marshals had been responsible for the “intake procedure.” Federal prosecutors say that the charges stem from a promise Ms. Khobragade made to American authorities that she would pay her housekeeper $4,500 a month. The prosecutors said she actually paid the housekeeper just $573 a month and made her work far more than 40 hours a week.
哈夫承认，国务院外交安全官员参与了拘留霍布拉加德的行为，同时又说，“逮捕过程”是由联邦法警负责的。一些联邦检察官说，对霍布拉加德的指控是由于她曾向美国官员承诺每月付给其管家4500美元工资。这些检察官说，实际上她每个月只给了这名管家573美元，还给管家规定了远远超过40小时的每周工作时间。
Ms. Khobragade’s lawyer said last week that she had pleaded not guilty and planned to challenge the arrest on grounds of diplomatic immunity. The charges against her carry maximum sentences of 10 years for visa fraud and five years for making a false declaration.
霍布拉加德的律师上周说，她已经提起无罪辩护，并打算以外交豁免权为依据来质疑这次逮捕。她面临的签证欺诈指控最多可判刑10年，虚假声明指控最高可判刑5年。
It is not unusual in India for domestic staff to be paid poorly and be required to work more than 60 hours a week; they are sometimes treated abominably. Reports of maids being imprisoned or abused by their employers are frequent.
在印度，家庭雇工薪水很低且每周工作60小时以上的情况并不少见；这些雇工有时还会受到恶劣对待。女佣被雇主囚禁或虐待的消息频频见诸报端。
But the idea of a middle-class woman being arrested and ordered to disrobe is seen as shocking. Airport security procedures in India provide separate lines for women, and any pat-down searches are performed behind curtains.
但是，一名中产阶级女性被捕并遭到裸体搜身，这样的事情却让印度人震惊不已。印度的机场安检让妇女单独排成一队，任何需要脱衣服的搜查都要在帘子内进行。
Top Indian officials are exempt from security screenings here, and long lists of officials who are permitted to bypass the screenings are posted at many Indian airports. When those officials are required to pass through security screenings in the United States and elsewhere, that fact often makes headlines in India and is seen by some as an insult to the country.
印度还免除对高级官员的安检，印度很多机场都贴有长长的免安检官员名单。如果这些官员在美国或其他地方被要求接受安检，这样的事情往往会登上印度媒体的头条，一些印度人还会认为这是对印度的侮辱。