NEW DELHI — More than 150 people were trapped Wednesday when a massive mudslide swamped a village of 40 homes in western India during heavy monsoon rains, and officials said they had little hope of rescuing many of those missing as weather conditions were likely to worsen Thursday.
新德里——周三，印度季风带来的暴雨引发大规模泥石流，导致西部一座拥有40家住户的村庄被埋，逾150人被困。官员表示，由于天气状况很可能在周四恶化，他们认为对许多失踪者实施救援的希望渺茫。
A narrow road leading to Malin, a village near Pune, was jammed with residents’ vehicles, preventing rescuers and emergency vehicles from reaching the scene quickly.
这座村庄名为马林，位于浦那附近。通往村庄的一条狭窄道路上挤满了居民的车辆，救援人员和应急车辆因而无法很快抵达受灾地点。
“Our teams are walking four to five miles to reach the village, and we are not able to transport heavy equipment there,” said Surjeet Singh Guleria, a senior officer with the National Disaster Response Force. “More than 100 soldiers from our force have already reached the village and about 300 more are about to get there.”
“我们的团队要徒步4到5英里（约合6到8公里）才能到那座村子，而且我们也没办法把重型设备运过去，”国家灾难应急部队(National Disaster Response Force)的高级军官苏尔吉特·辛格·古莱里亚(Surjeet Singh Guleria)说。“我们部队有100多名士兵已经抵达村庄，还有大约300人即将抵达。”
Of the estimated 158 people trapped, 61 are children and 60 are women, Mr. Guleria said. He blamed deforestation in the area for loosening soil that, when soaked with rain, suddenly surged toward the stricken village.
古莱里亚表示，据估计，共有158人被埋，其中包括61名儿童和60名女性。他认为当地滥伐森林导致土壤疏松，再被雨水浸泡后，突然冲向受灾的村庄。
“The chances of finding anyone alive in there are very bleak,” Mr. Guleria said. “It will take at least 10 days to clear the mud.”
“在那里找到生还者的希望非常渺茫，”古莱里亚说，“清理淤泥至少需要10天时间。”
Prithviraj Chavan, the chief minister of Maharashtra, the state where the village is, told reporters that he had instructed rescue workers to evacuate the area, including residents whose homes have so far been unaffected.
村庄所在的马哈拉施特拉邦首席部长普利特维拉杰·沙旺(Prithviraj Chavan)告诉记者，他已指示救援人员疏散该地区的民众，包括房屋目前尚未受到影响的居民。
The federal environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, emerged from climate change discussions Wednesday afternoon with American officials and dismissed the notion that the mudslide was linked to larger climate problems.
在结束了周三下午与美国官员就气候变化举行的会谈后，印度联邦环境部长普拉卡什·雅瓦德卡尔(Prakash Javadekar)驳斥了称这起泥石流事件和更严重的气候问题有关的看法。