NEW DELHI — An Indian court on Monday sentenced a well-known guru to 20 years in prison for rape, three days after followers angered by his conviction engaged in violent protests in which dozens of people were killed.
新德里——周一，印度法院以强奸罪判处一位著名的上师20年监禁，在那之前的三天里，他的定罪引发的暴力抗议活动已经导致10人丧生。
The guru, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, was found guilty on Friday of having raped two women more than a decade ago. Thousands of Mr. Singh’s followers had gathered in Panchkula in Haryana State, where the verdict was announced. They responded by smashing cars, setting fire to buildings and attacking police officers in the city, about 150 miles north of Delhi, and the violence later spread to other cities in northern India. At least 38 people were killed and more than 250 were injured.
这名上师名为古尔米特·拉姆·拉希姆·辛格(Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh)，被指控在十多年前曾强奸了两名妇女，上周五被判罪名成立。数以千计的辛格追随者当时聚集在哈里亚纳邦的班杰库拉，即宣布裁决的城市。在这座位于德里以北约150英里（约240公里）的城市，他们捣毁汽车，点燃建筑物，攻击警察。之后，暴力蔓延到印度北部的其他城市。现在至少有38人遇难，250多人受伤。
Initial reports indicated that Mr. Singh had been sentenced to 10 years in prison for each of the rape convictions, but that the terms would be served concurrently. But a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Investigation, which investigated the rape allegations against Mr. Singh, later said that he would serve the sentence consecutively.
初步报道称，辛格因的两项强奸罪各判了10年监禁，但服刑是同时进行的。但负责调查辛格强奸指控的印度中央調查局(Central Bureau of Investigation)发言人后来表示，他将连续服刑。
There were no immediate reports of similar violence after Mr. Singh’s sentencing on Monday, which was reported by the Press Trust of India and other news organizations. Soldiers and police officers had been deployed in large numbers, and the sentence was delivered not in a court but at the jail where Mr. Singh was being held, in Rohtak, about 50 miles northwest of New Delhi. A judge was flown to the jail by helicopter.
辛格周一的判决结果发布之后，印度报业托拉斯(Press Trust of India)和其他新闻机构没有立即发布关于类似暴力事件的报道。大量士兵和警察已经部署就位，判决也没有在法庭上做出，而是在新德里西北约50英里（约合80公里）的罗塔克、辛格被关押的监狱里发布的。一名法官是乘坐直升机前往监狱的。
The authorities had suspended some train and bus services and put several cities in the area under curfew in an attempt to prevent further violence.
当局暂停了一些火车和巴士服务，并在该地区的几个城市实施了宵禁，以防止发生进一步的暴力活动。
Mr. Singh, 50, is the leader of Dera Sacha Sauda, a sect that has many followers in northern India and claims to have 60 million worldwide. Often referred to as the “guru of bling,” Mr. Singh is known for his flashy lifestyle and flamboyant dress.
辛格现年50岁，是“社会福利和精神组织”(Dera Sacha Saudra)的领导人，该组织在印度北部拥有大量追随者，号称全球拥有6000万信徒。辛格通常被称为“闪闪上师”(guru of bling)，以华丽的生活方式和浮夸的服饰而闻名。
He was convicted of raping two women at the headquarters of his sect, in a case that dates to 2002. Mr. Singh’s lawyers have said they would appeal his conviction.
这起案件可以追溯到2002年，当时他在该教派的总部强奸了两名妇女，在被定罪之后，辛格的律师表示会上诉。