ALBUQUERQUE — When the Bharatiya Janata Party announced it would “revise and update” India’s nuclear doctrine if elected this month, the proposal was widely interpreted to mean that the party would renege on India’s 1998 pledge never to use nuclear weapons in a first strike. The party has since backtracked, ostensibly because of the media backlash. That’s unfortunate. Although the “no first use” doctrine, known as N.F.U., may seem prudent in theory, India has diluted the concept to the point of absurdity, with dangerous consequences: a buildup of its conventional forces, which has caused Pakistan to harden its nuclear stance.
阿尔伯克基——印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)曾经宣布，如果在本月胜选，将“修改并更新”印度的核原则。当人民党做出上述提议时，外界普遍认为，这意味着它将放弃印度政府1998年做出的永不首先使用核武器的承诺。此后，似乎是因为媒体的强烈反应，人民党表现出悔意。相当令人遗憾。尽管“不首先使用核武”原则，即所谓的NFU，理论上似乎是一种审慎的做法，印度却已经把这个概念稀释到了荒诞的程度，并产生了危险的后果：常规力量的规模不断扩大，而这已经令巴基斯坦强化了核立场。
In August 1999 a panel of independent experts convened by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee issued a draft nuclear doctrine containing a commitment to N.F.U. That inclusion seemed designed to assuage the international community, which India had rattled the previous year by conducting nuclear tests. Yet the government started backpedaling almost immediately, presumably because it realized that the N.F.U. pledge undermined the rationale for conducting the tests in the first place: to deter an attack from China, with which India had fought a crushing war in 1962.
1999年8月，由印度总理阿塔尔·比哈里·瓦杰帕伊(Atal Bihari Vajpayee)召集的一个独立的专家小组发布了一份核原则草案，其中包括NFU承诺。这项内容似乎旨在安抚国际社会，因为此前一年，印度多次进行核试验，让国际社会忐忑不安。然而，印度政府很快就出尔反尔，大概是因为它意识到，NFU的承诺让起初从事核试验的理由站不住脚了，这个理由就是：对来自中国的袭击进行威慑。印度与中国之间曾在1962年发生过一场惨烈的战争。
On Nov. 29, 1999, Jaswant Singh, a member of Parliament, dismissed the draft doctrine, saying it was “not a policy document of the Government of India” because the panel that put it together had legally nebulous authority. (Within a week, Mr. Singh was made foreign minister.) By 2003, when India issued an official nuclear doctrine, its N.F.U. pledge had been watered down to authorize a nuclear retaliation after a chemical or biological strike. Then, on Oct. 21, 2010, Shivshankar Menon, the national security adviser, stated that India would apply N.F.U. only with respect to non-nuclear weapons states.
1999年11月29日，当时还是议员的贾斯万特·辛格(Jaswant Singh)否定了这份原则草案的意义，称它“不是印度政府的政策文件”，因为提出这一原则的专家组在法律上的权威性存疑。（不到一周后，辛格升任外交部长。）2003年，印度发布了官方的核原则，其中NFU的承诺被打了折扣，从而可以授权印度在遭受化学或生物武器袭击后进行核报复。后来，到了2010年10月21日，国家安全顾问希夫山卡·梅农(Shivshankar Menon)宣布，印度的NFU原则只对非核武器国家适用。
But even as India’s civilian authorities have, in effect, authorized a nuclear first strike against nuclear states like China and Pakistan, they have not given the military control of operational nuclear weapons. (In established nuclear states, the weapons are in the hands of the military, subject to civilian oversight, and launch codes remain with the government.) Nor does India’s military appear to have conducted war games simulating the first use of nuclear weapons.
虽然印度的文职政府实际上已经允许向中国和巴基斯坦等核国家首先使用核武器，但并没有把作战核武器的控制权交给军方。（在多年拥有核武器的国家，这些武器都在军方手中，受到文职政府的监管，启动密码则掌握在政府手里。）印度军方似乎也没有实施过模拟首先使用核武器的军事演习。
Instead, the government has authorized a massive increase in its conventional forces. A 2012 article in Time magazine estimated that India would spend $80 billion on “military modernization” over the following three years. The navy plans to expand its current fleet of more than 130 vessels to about 200, including submarines and aircraft carriers, over the next decade. During the same period, the army expects to supplement its 1.1 million strong force with another 100,000 troops, and the air force will acquire some 350-odd fighter jets.
相反，印度政府却大规模扩充了常规力量。2012年刊登在《时代》(Time)杂志上的一篇文章估计，接下来三年，印度将在“军事现代化”方面支出800亿美元（约合5000亿元人民币）。印度海军计划未来10年将舰队规模从目前的130多艘扩大充到200艘左右，其中包括潜水艇和航母。在此期间，陆军预计将在目前超过110万人的基础上，再增兵10万，而空军则将再获350多架战斗机。
These efforts are intended to deter China. But China seems basically unfazed, and has responded simply by expanding roads, railways and airfields in Tibet. On the other hand, Pakistan, which does not have the resources to match India’s buildup of conventional forces, is compensating — overcompensating — in the nuclear arena.
这些举措意在威慑中国。不过中国似乎基本不为所动，直接以在西藏扩建公路、铁路和机场作为回应。另一方面，巴基斯坦没有办法在常规力量上和印度军备相抗衡，就选择用核领域去补偿，且是过度补偿。
A 2011 Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists projected that within a decade Pakistan would have enough fissile material to make between 160 and 240 nuclear bombs, more than double the expected capacity of India and possibly more even than that of Britain. Pakistan has started deploying tactical nuclear devices on short-range rockets along its border with India. Brigadier Feroz Khan, the former director of Arms Control and Disarmament Affairs in the Strategic Plans Division, the ultimate overseer of Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal and activities, has argued that this move makes sense only if launch authority is pre-delegated to field commanders — suggesting that it has been.
《原子科学家公报》(Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists)2011年发表的一篇文章预测，巴基斯坦10年内将拥有足以制造160到240枚核弹的裂变材料，是印度的预计产量的两倍多，甚至可能高于英国。巴基斯坦已经开始在印巴边境沿线的短程火箭弹上部署战术核装置。巴基斯坦监管核武及核活动的最高机构为战略规划局(Strategic Plans Division)，而曾负责该机构武器控制与裁军事务的布里格迪尔·费罗兹·汗(Brigadier Feroz Khan)提出，只有事先赋予战地指挥官启动核武的权力，此举才有意义——暗示巴基斯坦已经这么做了。
In short, India’s diluted version of the N.F.U. doctrine makes an already dangerous security situation in South Asia more dangerous still. Everyone would be better off if the government did away with it.
简而言之，印度的淡化版NFU原则已经让南亚本已比较危险的安全状况变得更糟糕了。如果政府将其废除，对各方都会更好。
The problem is that no political group currently has the wherewithal to try to fix these ambiguities, not even the B.J.P., despite its tough-on-security credentials.
问题是，目前没有任何政治组织拥有修正这些模棱两可之处的资源，甚至连人民党也不例外，尽管它一向对安全问题持强硬立场。
The obstacles are structural and cultural. The post-independence government of Jawaharlal Nehru was wary of military overthrows, which were endemic across the developing world at the time. Consequently, India’s security apparatus was structured so as to keep the military on the sidelines of major security decisions. Contact between the chiefs of staff and the defense minister remains sporadic and mostly ceremonial. While civilian authorities are unfamiliar with operational realities, they rarely take advice from the generals. And thanks to a convoluted reporting system, the higher echelons of the executive branch see military reports only after they have been sanitized by lower-level, nonexpert civilian bureaucrats, rarely hearing directly from either ground commanders or their superiors.
阻碍既来自结构方面，也来自文化方面。瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)的独立后政府曾担心印度发生军事政变——当时这在发展中国家十分普遍。所以，印度安全部门就形成了一种不让军方直接参与重大安全决定的结构。各参谋长与国防部长只会偶尔进行联系，而且这种联系还主要出于礼貌。虽然文职政府官员并不熟悉实际操作，但他们很少听从将领的意见。由于印度政府部门层级结构复杂，高层官员只能看到经过低层官员美化处理的军事报告，不是专家的文职官员很少会直接收到收来自战地指挥官或其长官的信息。