A RECENT wave of building collapses has brought attention to this city’s large number of poorly built structures. It feels as if every week brings fresh reports of a new disaster. The death toll is expected to rise with the monsoons.
最近的一系列建筑倒塌事件引起了人们对这个城市大量粗制滥造的建筑的关注。感觉好像每周都有最新灾难的报道。死亡人数预计会随着季风的增强而上升。
News media and political attention have mostly focused on the vast stock of old buildings from the pre-independence period and immediately after. Yet old age wasn’t the cause of the collapse of a building in Thane, a city on the outskirts of Mumbai, that killed around 74 people in April. That building was still under construction. (And, like a majority of buildings in Thane, the construction was illegal — neither authorized nor overseen by any official agency.) Old age cannot explain the caving in of a 34-year-old building that killed at least 10 people near here last month either, nor the collapse of a building, about a decade old, that killed at least six people and injured more than two dozen last week.
新闻媒体和政界的注意力主要集中在独立前那段时间和独立后不久修建的大量老旧建筑上。然而，年代久远并不是导致孟买周边的塔纳市一栋建筑垮塌的原因，发生在4月的那起事故造成大约74人死亡。那是一栋还在建设中的大楼。（而且，和塔纳的大部分建筑一样，那栋楼的建设施工是非法的，没有任何官方机构授权和监管。）上月，孟买附近一栋有34年历史的大楼倒塌，造成至少10人死亡。上周，一栋建成约10年的大楼发生垮塌，造成至少六人死亡，二十多人受伤。年代久远同样无法解释这两起事故。
Intangible factors, like faulty urban policies and unchecked real-estate speculation, bear the prime responsibility.
无形的因素，比如错误的城市政策和无节制的房地产市场投机，要承担主要责任。
Most of the recent casualties have taken place in the far periphery of Mumbai, where one finds a sprawling landscape of hastily built residential blocks meant to absorb white-collar middle-class Mumbaikars who struggle to find anything even remotely affordable in the city. Many of them commute for hours daily in trains so packed that people routinely fall out — collateral damage of the speculative euphoria.
最近造成人员伤亡的建筑垮塌事件中，大部分都发生在孟买的边缘地带。在那里，人们会发现大量草草建成的居民区。那些居民区是用来吸纳孟买的中产阶级白领的，这些人在孟买市里找不到任何能负担得起的住所。他们中的许多人每天要坐几个小时的火车上下班，火车非常拥挤，以至于时常出现乘客被挤下去的事件，而这正是投机者的狂欢所带来的附带损害。
A bombastic real estate sector has simultaneously pushed up the price and heights of buildings, accelerated the speed of construction and lowered the quality of new structures in and around Mumbai. Many properties are conceived primarily as assets, to be bought and sold to investors. Owners often prefer empty flats because they can be traded more easily. This partly explains why, according to a government census in 2011, nearly half a million houses and flats are vacant in one of the most crowded metropolitan areas on earth.
充满泡沫的房地产行业同时推高了建筑物的价格和高度、加速了建筑施工的速度、降低了孟买及周边地区新建筑的质量。许多房产主要是被当做资产，会被买来再卖给投资者。房屋主人往往宁愿房屋空着，因为这样交易起来更便利。这在一定程度上解释了政府2011年进行人口普查时得到的结果。那次人口普查发现，在全球最拥挤的都市地区之一，近50万处房屋和公寓是空置的。
Officially, the promotion of a vertical skyline has been justified on the grounds that high-rise structures are the only possible response to Mumbai’s huge population and land shortage. Dozens of skyscrapers, 300 feet high or higher, are under construction in Mumbai. Investors are planning to build, at around 2,300 feet, the world’s second tallest structure.
从官方来看，可能只有高层建筑能应对孟买的庞大人口和土地短缺，并以此证明了他们推崇高层建筑的合理性。现在，孟买在建的高楼有几十栋，高度在300英尺（约合91米）或以上。而且投资者正在计划修建全球第二高建筑，该楼高约2300英尺。
But the argument for verticalization has long been rejected by architects and city planners. Every vertical push also requires a horizontal spread — new high-rise inhabitants need access roads, open space and other services. Besides, the higher you build, the more expensive the construction and maintenance. High-rise structures are also outside the budget of India’s low-income groups, which explains why, in the last decade, south Mumbai has seen both more high-rise buildings and a declining population.
但长期以来，垂直发展的论调一直为建筑师和城市规划者们所驳斥。每一栋高楼都要求在地面上占有一片地区，因为新的高楼住户需要辅路、露天场所和其他服务设施。此外，大楼修得越高，施工和维护费用越贵。而且，印度低收入群体的预算也承担不起高层建筑，这解释了为何过去十年孟买南部的高层建筑更多了，但居住人口却减少了。
Following the same faulty logic, the authorities are promoting the transformation of slums, which can be found in all parts of the city and where over 60 percent of the population is said to be living. Since the 1990s, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority has offered to let investors raze slums and redevelop the land, so long as they devote part of the site to new housing for the displaced residents.
遵循上述错误逻辑，当局正在推进贫民窟的改造，孟买各个区域都存在贫民窟，据信，该市60%的人口都住在贫民窟。自20世纪90年代起，贫民窟改造局(Slum Rehabilitation Authority)主动请求投资者拆毁贫民窟，对土地进行再开发，只要他们将部分土地用于为拆迁的居民修建新房屋。
Inevitably, that housing is squeezed into high-rises, in order to leave as much land open for development as possible. These structures are often shoddily built disasters. Maintenance is expensive, and rust, leaking roofs and cracked walls are common after only a few years. In addition, the buildings are not amenable to the kind of home-based economic activities and street retailing that characterized the old neighborhoods. Eventually, many sell and move out to a slum.
这种房屋难免会被挤压成高层建筑，以便留出尽可能多的土地用于开发项目。这些建筑通常都是粗制滥造的，并存在潜在隐患。相关的维护费非常高，而且仅仅几年之后，生锈、房顶漏水、墙面破裂的现象就会非常普遍。此外，这些建筑不适宜那种在家中进行的经济活动，以及老社区常见的街头零售活动。最终，很多人卖掉房子，搬到贫民窟。
What the government calls “slums” have infinitely more potential to become functional neighborhoods than the hurried development that replaces them. They are habitats where extreme population density is made bearable by pedestrian streets that come alive during bazaars and community festivals, and where children can play under the watchful eye of socializing neighbors.
政府所谓的“贫民窟”，而不是匆忙新建的住宅区，极有可能成为功能齐备的社区，这是人们生活的地方，有集市和社区庆祝活动时，步行街熙熙攘攘，在这种情况下，人口极其密集的情况也是可以接受的，在这里，孩子们可以在知根知底的邻居的看护下玩耍。
The problems faced by these neighborhoods, like inadequate water and sewage systems, are serious, but they do not justify wholesale redevelopment. Updating the infrastructure of dense urban environments is not rocket science. It was done successfully in Tokyo and parts of Mumbai in the 1980s, and is being done in many South American cities today.
这些社区面临严重的问题，比如不完善的供水及下水道系统，但这不是进行全面再开发的正当理由。升级人口密集的城市的基础设施并不是一件复杂的事情。20世纪80年代，东京和和孟买部分地区都成功地完成了基础设施更新，很多南美的城市如今也正在进行更新。
Moreover, we found that the quality of construction is often much better in these neighborhoods than in other parts of the city. In most cases, local masons build the houses. To get contracts, they rely on their good reputation among their neighbors. This is unlike large developers, who are usually nowhere to be found after a building is sold, let alone if it collapses.
除此之外，我们发现这些社区中建筑的质量比该市其他地方要好得多。在大部分情况下，这些房屋是由当地的泥瓦匠修建的。他们依靠在街坊邻居中的好口碑获得合同。这与大型开发商不同，他们通常在建筑出售后就消失不见，更不用说建筑倒塌的时候了。
As civic authorities try to stop these tragic building collapses, perhaps they could learn a thing or two from the vernacular neighborhoods that they now see only as raw material for redevelopment. And big developers could learn from the work ethic and craftsmanship of local builders. The city will not solve its overcrowding problems by promoting buildings that could become lethal liabilities in the near future.
随着孟买市政府设法杜绝悲惨的建筑倒塌事故，他们或许能够从这些当地社区中学到一些东西，他们现在只把这些地方视作再开发的原材料。一些大型开发商也可以学习当地建筑者的职业道德和技艺。孟买无法通过引入那些在不久将成为安全隐患的建筑，来解决过度拥挤的问题。