NEW DELHI — The novelist Nayantara Sahgal said she was returning India’s highest literary honor to express sympathy for “all dissenters who now live in fear and uncertainty.” G. S. Bhullar, a short-story author, said he was giving back the same award to protest the “violent retrogressive forces dictating terms in the field of literature and culture.” Mandakranta Sen, a Bengali poet, said she was sending her award back to protest “attacks on rationalists.”
新德里——小说家娜扬塔拉·萨加尔(Nayantara Sahgal)宣布将退还印度最高的文学荣誉，以表达对所有“生活在恐惧和不确定中的持异见者”的同情。短篇小说家G·S·波拉尔(G. S. Bhullar)也宣称将退还该奖项，以抗议“残暴的倒退势力在文学和文化领域的独裁。”孟加拉诗人曼达科兰塔·森(Mandakranta Sen)称，她会归还自己的奖项，以抗议“对唯理主义者的攻击”。
In the last month, 35 leading Indian authors and poets have returned coveted awards from the National Academy of Letters in a collective revolt against what Salman Rushdie this week called the “thuggish violence” creeping into Indian life under the Hindu nationalist government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
在上个月，35名重要的印度作家和诗人退还了令人梦寐以求的印度文学院(the National Academy of Letters)的奖项，一致抗议萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)本周指称的“凶残暴力”，说在总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)领导的印度教民族主义政府治下，这种“凶残暴力”逐渐潜入印度人的生活。
The writers’ revolt, which began in September after a 76-year-old critic of Hindu idolatry was gunned down in his home, rapidly gained strength this month when Mr. Modi failed to promptly condemn the killing of a Muslim man, Mohammed Ikhlaq, by a Hindu mob because they suspected he had killed a cow and eaten its meat.
这次作家的抗议活动始于9月，在一名76岁的评论家因批评印度教的偶像崇拜于住所内被枪杀之后。本月，一群印度暴民因怀疑穆斯林男子穆罕默德·阿科拉克(Mohammed Ikhlaq)宰杀并食用了一头牛而将其杀害，而总理莫迪并未立即对此进行谴责。此后，抗议活动的声势剧增。
The revolt now presents Mr. Modi with a critical test of his vaunted ability to shape the public narrative of his administration. Perhaps more than any crisis he has faced since becoming prime minister 17 months ago, this one is offering a kind of X-ray of Mr. Modi’s carefully cultivated persona both here and abroad.
莫迪一直夸耀自己有能力塑造其政府的公共话语，而这次抗议活动给他造成严峻的考验。这可能是他出任总理的17个月以来，所面临的最为重大的一次考验。这一事件使人们能够仔细看清莫迪在印度及海外细心经营的个人形象。
Just last month, during a visit to the United States, Mr. Modi was warmly embraced by Mark Zuckerberg and other Silicon Valley titans, who praised him as the modernizing, progressive, open-minded leader of the world’s largest democracy. But the backlash from some of India’s most celebrated writers underscores the extent of debate here about the ultimate goals and essential nature of Mr. Modi’s administration.
就在上一个月，在莫迪访美期间，马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)和其他硅谷巨头热情地欢迎了他。他们称赞莫迪为进步、开明的领导人，推动了现代化，治理着世界最大的民主国家。但印度一些最负盛名的作家的激烈反应，加剧了印度本国关于莫迪政府的最终目的和本质的争议。
Is he a Twitter-savvy technocrat obsessed with boosting development for all India by slashing red tape, wooing foreign investors and building a modern digital economy? Or is he a canny ideologue intent on imposing a strict Hindu code of values on a nation that prides itself on tolerance, diversity and pluralism?
他是否是一位谙熟社交网络的技术官员，一心想通过减少繁复的官僚程序、争取外国投资者以及建立现代化的数字经济来促进发展？还是精明的意识形态拥护者，热衷于将一套严苛的印度教价值观强加于一个素来以宽容、多样性和多元化为傲的国家？ “Mr. Modi talks all these tall words abroad, on foreign soil,” said Mangalesh Dabral, a poet who is returning his award from 2000. “All the sermonizing, this talk of the great digital India and the dreams he shows to people. All of it seems plain boasting because enactment of these tall words is invisible in his behavior and words inside the country, on his homeland.”
“莫迪总是在海外，在外国的土地上高谈阔论，”诗人曼格拉什·达布拉尔(Mangalesh Dabral)说，他打算退还自己于2000年获得的奖项。“他所有的说教，他所谈论的伟大的数字化印度，以及他展示给人民的美梦，所有这一切看起来不过是夸夸其谈而已，因为在自己的国家和土地上，他的言行从未兑现那些高谈阔论。”
One of Mr. Modi’s favorite modes of communicating is Twitter, where he has 15 million followers and more than 9,500 posts. On Twitter, Mr. Modi presents himself as cheerleader in chief for all things India, celebrating achievements, sending birthday greetings and offering condolences. Yet, as many commentators have pointed out, not one of his Twitter posts has offered condolences to the Ikhlaq family, which was brutally attacked by a Hindu mob last month in a village 30 miles east of Delhi.
莫迪最喜欢的交流方式之一是Twitter。他有1500万关注者，发了9500多条推文。在Twitter上，莫迪以印度所有事务的首席拉拉队员的形象示人，庆祝取得的成就、送出生日祝福、表示慰问。然而，正如许多评论员所指出的那样，他的推文中没有一条向阿科拉克家表示慰问。上月，在德里以东30英里的一个村子里，一群印度教暴徒野蛮地袭击了阿科拉克家。
With each passing day of silence from Mr. Modi, more writers stepped forward to say they, too, were returning their awards from the academy, also known as Sahitya Akademi. At least a dozen more writers have joined since Monday, when right-wing Hindu activists in Mumbai smeared black paint on the face of Sudheendra Kulkarni, a think tank leader, for agreeing to host an event for a book for a former Pakistani foreign minister.
莫迪一直保持沉默。随着时间的推移，更多作家站出来表示，要把自己的奖项退还给文学院。周一，因为同意为前巴基斯坦外长写的一本书举办一场活动，智库领袖苏丁德拉·库尔卡尼(Sudheendra Kulkarni)的脸上被孟买的右翼印度教活动人士泼墨。自那时以来，至少又有12位作家加入其中。 “There are attacks on ordinary liberties, the ordinary right to assembly, the ordinary right to organize an event in which people can talk about books and ideas freely and without hostility,” Mr. Rushdie told India’s NDTV network on Tuesday. As if to prove his point, Mr. Rushdie described what happened when he posted on Twitter in support of Ms. Sahgal and the writers’ revolt, warning that these are “alarming times for free expression in India.” Within hours, he said, he was besieged with thousands of outraged responses.
“普通的自由、普通的集会权、人们组织活动并不带敌意地自由讨论著作和观点的普通权利受到攻击，”拉什迪周二对印度新德里电视台(NDTV)说。似乎是为了证明自己的观点，拉什迪描述了自己在Twitter上发文支持萨加尔和那些作家的反抗后发生的事情，警告称这些事情“令人对印度的言论自由感到担忧”。他说，在几个小时的时间里，自己遭到数千条愤怒回复的围攻。
Uday Prakash, a renowned Hindi writer, was the first author to renounce his award from the academy, in September. “I have never seen such hostility before,” he said.
9月，著名印地语作家乌代·普拉卡什(Uday Prakash)是第一位宣布放弃印度文学院奖项的作家。他说，“我以前从没见过这种程度的敌意。”
In interviews this week, the writers returned to the same refrain: That Mr. Modi’s failure to confront intolerance by fellow Hindu nationalists is giving tacit permission for more intolerance. “The tide of violence against freedom of speech is rising every day,” Ms. Sahgal said.
本周接受采访时，那些作家回口径一致，再次称莫迪未能应对印度教民族主义者的不宽容，而这是在默许更多的不宽容。“针对言论自由的暴力浪潮日益高涨，”萨加尔说。
On Tuesday, Mr. Modi for the first time directly addressed the Sept. 28 attack that left Mr. Ikhlaq dead. During an interview with the Bengali language newspaper Anandabazar Patrika, Mr. Modi called Mr. Ikhlaq’s death “really sad,” and emphasized that his Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., “never supports such incidents.”
周二，莫迪首次直接提到9月28日导致阿科拉克身亡的那场袭击。在接受孟加拉语报纸《Anandabazar Patrika》的采访时，莫迪称阿科拉克的死“的确令人伤心”，并强调他所在的印度人民党（Bharatiya Janata Party，简称BJP）“从来不支持这种事情”。
But he also accused political opponents of trying to exploit Mr. Ikhlaq’s death. “The B.J.P. has always opposed pseudosecularism,” he said. “Opposition regularly alleges B.J.P. of igniting communal flare. But isn’t the opposition doing polarization now?”
但他也谴责政敌试图利用阿科拉克的死。“人民党向来反对伪世俗主义，”他说。“反对派常指称人民党引发社会紧张局势。但反对派现在不是正在制造分化吗？”
While Mr. Modi did not address the writers’ revolt, his allies have been merciless. Rakesh Sinha, an unofficial spokesman for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological parent of the B.J.P., said the writers were “frustrated communist cadres” who had long opposed the “cultural nationalism” embraced by Mr. Modi’s supporters.
莫迪未提到相关作家的反抗，但他的盟友却颇为无情。民族志工组织(Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)的非官方发言人拉凯什·辛格(Rakesh Sinha)表示，那些作家是“受挫的共产主义干部”，长期反对莫迪的支持者奉行的“文化民族主义”。人民党的意识形态即发端于该组织。
He noted that at least two of the writers who returned awards signed an open letter warning that Mr. Modi’s election as prime minister in 2014 would give rise to bigotry and violence. “They are not in a position to accept someone like Mr. Modi,” he said in an interview.
他指出，退还奖项的作家中，至少有两人在2014年的一封公开信上签了名。那封公开信警告称，莫迪当选总理会引发偏见和暴力。“他们无法接受像莫迪那样的人，”他在接受采访时说。
In a lengthy post on Facebook, Mr. Modi’s finance minister, Arun Jaitley, ridiculed the protests as political sour grapes by leftist writers still reeling from “the shrinking fortunes” of their traditional government patrons, the Indian National Congress and the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty.
莫迪的财政部长阿伦·贾特里(Arun Jaitley)最近在Facebook发表长文，嘲笑这些抗议源于左翼作家的政治酸葡萄心理，认为他们现在依然受到其传统政治主顾印度国大党(Indian National Congress)和甘地-尼赫鲁王朝“日渐式微”的影响。
“A few questions to the protesters: How many of them courted arrest, protested or raised their voice against the dictatorship of Mrs. Indira Gandhi during the emergency?
“向抗议者们提几个问题：他们有几人曾经抗议或大声反对英迪拉·甘地(Mrs. Indira Gandhi)在非常时期的独裁统治，又有几人因此被捕。”
“With the Congress showing no signs of revival and an insignificant Left lacking legislative relevance, the recipients of past patronage are now resorting to ‘politics by other means,’ ” Mr. Jaitley added. “The manufactured protest of the writers is one such case.”
“看不到国大党复兴的迹象，无足轻重的左翼力量又缺少与立法领域的关系，所以这些过去受赞助的人，现在开始诉诸其他政治手段，”贾特里接着写道。“这些作家制造的抗议，就是个例子。”
Several writers scoffed at the idea that the protests have a hidden political motive. Some pointed out that several Indian writers were jailed during the state of emergency declared by Mrs. Gandhi in 1975. Mr. Rushdie, a British citizen who was born in India, wryly noted that it was the Congress party that banned his novel “The Satanic Verses” in 1988. “I’m not a fan of any political party,” he said.
对于抗议者有隐藏的政治动机这种想法，几位作家表示不屑。有些则指出，好几位印度作家曾在甘地1975年宣布进入的非常时期期间被监禁。出生于印度的英国公民拉什迪带有讽刺意味地指出，正是国大党在1988年禁了他的小说《撒旦诗篇》(The Satanic Verses)。“我不热心于任何一个政党，”他说。
Few writers have drawn more criticism than M.M. Kalburgi, a noted rationalist scholar who enraged far-right Hindu nationalists through his criticism of idol worship and superstition. Mr. Kalburgi said he received multiple death threats, and on Aug. 30 was shot dead at point-blank range in his home in Karnataka, a state in southern India. No arrests have been made.
没几个作家招致的指责多得过知名的唯理主义学者M·M·卡尔布吉(M.M. Kalburgi)，他因批评偶像崇拜和迷信而触怒了极右翼印度教民族主义者。卡尔布吉曾表示自己多次接到死亡威胁，8月30日他在自己位于印度南部卡纳塔克邦的家中被近距离击毙。目前警方还没逮捕任何嫌疑人。
Mr. Kalburgi’s death created a fierce debate among members of the National Academy of Letters. Mr. Kalburgi had been a member of the academy’s general council, and he received an award from the academy in 2006 for a collection of his academic research. Yet the academy issued no formal statements condemning Mr. Kalburgi’s murder.
卡尔布吉的死在印度文学院成员中引起了激烈的争论。他曾是该院总理事会一名成员，2006年还因自己的一系列学术研究而获得该院颁发的一个奖项。但印度文学院并没有发布任何官方声明谴责对卡尔布吉的谋杀行为。
Some members wondered whether the academy was keeping quiet because it gets government funding. Ms. Sahgal, for one, criticized the academy for acting as if it was “wise to be silent when writers are being killed.”
一些成员怀疑，文学院对此事保持沉默，有可能是因为它有政府资助。萨加尔就批评文学院表现得好像“在作家被杀害时保持沉默是明智之举”。