NEW DELHI — New Delhi is a safe city for the female Aedes aegypti mosquito. For the male, too, but it is the female that bites and transmits the dengue fever that is now common in most Indian cities, especially New Delhi.
新德里——对于雌性埃及伊蚊来说，新德里是座安全的城市。对于雄性伊蚊也一样，不过，叮咬人畜和传播登革热的是母蚊子，目前这种疾病在印度大多数城市都很常见，新德里尤其突出。
The deadly insect may be best known globally as the yellow fever mosquito, but in India it is more noted for the transmission of the four types of viruses that cause dengue, which has become one of the world’s major mosquito-borne diseases.
这种致命性昆虫在国际上最出名的可能是传播黄热病，然而在印度，人们对它的了解主要是因为它能传播四种引发登革热的病毒，登革热已成为全球主要的蚊媒疾病之一。
Doctors are in no doubt that there is a dengue epidemic in the capital region. Most hospitals have no rooms available to admit patients. Almost everybody here knows someone who has been struck by the fever. But, as usual, the government has responded to the outbreak through denial and fogging. And by releasing statistics that make doctors laugh.
医生们确信，首都地区出现了登革热疫情。大多数医院都没有病房收治病人。在新德里，几乎所有人都认识某个传染上了登革热的病人。不过，和往常一样，政府靠否认和掩盖，以及靠发布让医生发笑的数据来回应登革热的爆发。
The latest figure from the Delhi government is that 1,355 people in the city have tested positive for dengue this season. But, in just the first half of September, one general practitioner, Dr. Nandita Chakraborty, treated 263 patients who tested positive for dengue. “Then I stopped counting,” she said.
来自德里政府的最新数据显示，这一季市内有1355人的登革热测试结果呈阳性。不过，仅在9月上旬，全科医生南迪塔·查克拉博蒂(Nandita Chakraborty)就诊治了263名登革热测试结果呈阳性的患者，她说：“然后我就不再往下数了。”
The general medical opinion is that tens of thousands in New Delhi have been infected, and the figure could be in the millions in India.
普遍的医学见解是，新德里已有数以万计的居民被感染，整个印度的感染人数可能达到了数百万。
All doctors have to report dengue cases to public health officials, but they get the hint from the government that they need not be so conscientious about contributing to data. Dr. Chakraborty said that health officials asked her “too many questions” and demanded excessive documentation to prove her diagnosis of dengue cases, until she concluded that they did not really want her to report the numbers.
所有医生都必须向公共卫生官员上报登革热病例，然而，政府暗示他们，对于数据的上报需要慎之又慎。查克拉博蒂说，卫生官员问了她“一大堆问题”，并索要了大量的记录，以证明她对登革热病例的诊断，直到她得出结论，认为他们并不是真心想让她上报病例数据。
Underreporting unpleasant figures is an old government habit. In all Indian languages, “official figure” means a fraction of the truth. Arvind Kejriwal, whose newly formed political party will contest the Delhi Assembly elections this year, told me that the government is terrified of the facts of the dengue epidemic for a very practical reason.
瞒报令人不快的数据是政府的一个老习惯。在印度所有语言里，“官方数字”都意味着真实数字的一小部分。阿尔温德·凯杰里沃(Arvind Kejriwal)对我说，因为一个非常实际的原因，印度政府被登革热疫情吓坏了。凯杰里沃新组建的政党将在今年参加德里市议会(Delhi Assembly)的竞选。
“There is very serious underreporting of dengue cases because of the elections,” he said.
他说：“由于议会选举，登革热病例数被严重瞒报了。”
Dengue is debilitating and painful, but not fatal in most people who are infected by the virus. But it can become extremely dangerous if, at the same time or soon after the illness, the victim contracts other viral or bacterial diseases. What has spooked people in New Delhi, especially parents of young children, is that there are outbreaks other than dengue. Schools have issued circulars drawing attention to hand, foot and mouth disease, a contagious viral illness that chiefly affects children.
登革热是一种让人精疲力尽、痛苦不堪的疾病，但大多数感染了登革热病毒的患者不会死亡。然而，如果患者在感染登革热的同时或之后迅速感染了其他病毒性疾病或细菌性疾病，那么情况就会变得极其危险。让新德里居民，尤其是幼儿的父母胆战心惊的是，除了登革热，还爆发了其他疾病。学校已经发放传单，提醒家长注意手足口病，这是一种主要威胁儿童的病毒性接触传染病。
“There is a typhoid outbreak, there is a gastroenteritis outbreak, there is laryngitis,” said Dr. Chakraborty.
查克拉博蒂说：“现在已经爆发了伤寒、爆发了胃肠炎、还爆发了喉炎。”
The doctor, whose clinic is situated in an upscale residential area, treated more than 200 cases of typhoid fever in the first week of September. Residents suspect their housemaids and cooks to be the carriers of the disease, which is transmitted through the ingestion of food or drink contaminated by the feces of an infected person.
她的诊所位于一片高档的住宅区。在9月的第一周，她接治了200多名伤寒病例。小区住户怀疑自己家的女佣和厨子是伤寒携带者。摄入被感染者的排泄物污染了的食物或饮料，是伤寒的一种传播途径。
A distraught father whose daughter contracted typhoid muttered in Dr. Chakraborty’s clinic, “The whole country eats excrement?”
一个心烦意乱的父亲在查克拉博蒂的诊所里咕哝着说：“难道整个国家都在吃大便吗？”他女儿感染了伤寒。
The doctor weighed the question with more seriousness than he had expected, and said that that was probably true. On the brighter side, she said, it contributed to the eradication of polio in India. People with the best access to the oral polio vaccine discharged it in their stools, allowing the vaccine to reach the drinking water of those on the outer fringes of society.
医生对待这个问题的严肃程度超出了他的预料，并说事实可能真是这样。她说，从好的一面来看，这有助于根除印度的小儿麻痹症。最有希望获得口服小儿麻痹疫苗的人通过粪便将疫苗排出体外，使疫苗进入到那些社会边缘人群的饮用水中。
But in the exchange of germs and maladies between the rich and the poor — a perpetual transaction in Indian society — there is a disturbing trend. The poor live in conditions that make them effective carriers and transmitters of diseases, which the rich then combat with excessive use of antibiotics that are easily available over the counter. This leaves the microbes increasingly resistant to the most powerful drugs of Western medicine, allowing them to transmit the enhanced diseases back to the poor.
在印度社会，富人和穷人在不断进行细菌和疾病的交互传播。但在这种交互传播中，有一种令人不安的趋势。穷人的生活条件导致他们成为疾病的实际携带者和传播者，而富人则会通过过量使用抗生素来抵御这些击疾病。抗生素可以通过药店轻易买到。这导致这些微生物越来越能抵抗效力最强的西药，从而得以将抵抗力被提高了的疾病又传播给穷人。
In the case of dengue, the poor alone cannot be blamed. The predominance of the disease is, in a way, a result of a private-public partnership. As the Aedes aegypti mosquito needs fresh water to breed, it thrives in fancy homes and construction sites as well as in the slums.
就登革热而言，不能只怪穷人。在某种程度上，这种疾病的强势是某种“公私合作”的结果。因为埃及伊蚊的繁殖需要淡水，所以它不仅能在富丽堂皇的住宅和建筑工地，也能在贫民窟里繁衍生长。
There is not yet a cure or vaccine for dengue. But now, scientists from the New Delhi division of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, a global research organization, have reported that a vaccine they have developed has shown encouraging results on mice. Dr. Navin Khanna, who is leading the team of researchers, and whose daughter, by coincidence, recently tested positive for dengue, told me, “It will take at least another five years before the vaccine is ready, if everything goes according to plan.”
目前还没有治疗登革热的药物，或预防它的疫苗。但全球研究机构国际遗传工程和生物技术中心(International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology)新德里分支机构的科学家曾有报告称，他们研制的一种疫苗已经在老鼠得到鼓舞人心的结果。领导这组研究人员的纳温·康纳(Navin Khanna)博士告诉我说：“如果一切按计划进行，至少还要5年时间，疫苗才能问世。”巧合的是，他女儿前不久登革热检测呈阳性。
He is among the scientists who are unable to make sense of the Indian government’s poor investment in research on mosquito-borne diseases. “The push is coming from the West,” he said.
一些科学家无法理解印度政府对蚊媒传染病研究投入薄弱的做法，他便是其中之一。“努力都来自西方，”他说。
The most dramatic attempt to fight dengue has been undertaken by the British biotechnology company Oxford Insect Technologies, or Oxitec. The project, which is in the field trial stage, is audacious. Scientists create genetically modified Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, kill all the females, and release the males in the open. Wild females cannot tell the difference between the natural and the modified males. The offspring of the genetically altered male mosquitoes will die before they can fly. In a short video made by Oxitec, a scientist describes the ideas as “birth control for insects.”
英国生物技术公司牛津昆虫研究技术公司（Oxford Insect Technologies，简称Oxitec）进行的抗击登革热尝试最引人注目。这是一项大胆的工程，现在正处在实地试验阶段。科学家培育出基因被改变过的埃及伊蚊，杀死所有雌性蚊子，将雄性蚊子放飞到户外。野生的雌性蚊子分辨不出雄性蚊子是否经过基因改动。改动过的雄性蚊子的后代在会飞之前便会死去。在Oxitec制作的一个短视频中，一个科学家把这些主意称作“昆虫的计划生育”。
Meanwhile, there is a rumor in New Delhi that the leaves of the papaya plant can cure dengue. There have been reports of a rise in demand for the leaves, and of their disappearance from branches.
与此同时，新德里有传言说，番木瓜树的叶子能治疗登革热。因此有报道称叶子的需求正在增加，而有的番木瓜树叶子都不见了。