In her peppy and helpful online video tutorial, Reshma Bano Quereshi promises to teach her viewers “how to get perfect red lips.”
在充满活力且助益良多的网络视频教程中，莱什玛·巴诺·奎雷希(Reshma Bano Quereshi)承诺教观众们“如何拥有完美红唇”。
But unlike the more than 200,000 other online videos dedicated to the application of lipstick, this one goes beyond plumping and priming.
但与网上20多万个教涂口红的视频不同，这段视频不只是教你如何撅起嘴唇涂抹。
After sharing her cosmetic tips, Ms. Quereshi, 18, talks about her far more striking facial features. She is missing her left eye, and her skin is badly scarred from an attack in Northern India last year by her estranged brother-in-law and a group of men who held her down and poured sulfuric acid on her face. Her brother-in-law was arrested after the attack, but her family has said that two of his accomplices were never caught.
在分享了化妆技巧之后，18岁的奎雷希谈到了她那更引人注目的面部特征。她失去了左眼，去年在印度北部遭到关系疏远的姐夫及一群男子的攻击，他们把她按倒在地，朝她的脸上泼硫酸，导致她的脸上留下累累疤痕。她的姐夫因此被逮捕，但她的家人表示两名同犯没有被逮捕。
In her video, Ms. Quereshi explains that it is as easy for attackers to buy concentrated acid at a market as it is for her to buy a tube of lipstick — and sometimes, it is cheaper. The video, one of several produced by the group Make Love Not Scars, has garnered more than 900,000 views and led to the hashtag #EndAcidSale.
在视频中，奎雷希解释称，就像她买口红一样，袭击者很容易在市场上买到浓酸，有时价格还要便宜一些。这段视频的点击量达到了90万次，并发起了#EndAcidSale（停止出售强酸）标签。这是“要爱不要疤痕”(Make Love Not Scars)组织制作的几个视频之一。
Bharat Nayak, a representative for Make Love Not Scars, said in an email that bending traditional norms of female beauty was a powerful tactic intended to bring attention to persistent attacks against women in India despite efforts to limit the sale of acid used in many attacks.
该组织的代表巴拉特·纳亚克(Bharat Nayak)在邮件中表示，改变女性之美的传统标准是一个有力策略，该策略旨在让大家注意到，尽管对袭击案件用到的强酸采取了限售措施，印度女性仍在不断遭到袭击。
“We wanted to create a contrast by using a topic as superficial as makeup to address a hard hitting issue of acid attacks,” Mr. Nayak wrote. “There is so much stigma attached to this, that we felt that video of this kind can change people’s heart and make them feel survivors are as normal as they are.”
“我们希望形成对比，通过化妆这么肤浅的话题提出泼酸袭击这个难题，”纳亚克写道。“这在很大程度上事关耻辱，我们觉得这种视频可以改变人们的想法，让他们感到幸存者跟他们一样正常。”
Despite a 2013 order by the Supreme Court of India to stop the open sale of acid and carry out tighter restrictions on distributors, activists in India say dangerous materials — toilet-cleaning acid, for instance — are still readily available. In March, India’s Ministry of Home Affairs reported that 309 acid attacks were reported in 2014. That number is higher than what has been reported in recent years in part because of better systems to report the attacks, and because acid attacks have only recently been classified as a separate crime.
尽管印度最高法院2013年下令禁止公开销售强酸，并对经销商施加更严格的限制，印度的活动人士表示，危险物质——例如清洗厕所用的强酸——仍然很容易得到。今年3月，印度内政部报告称，2014年上报的泼酸事件达到309起，为近几年的最多，这部分是因为上报系统有所改善，而且泼酸攻击直到最近才被列为单独的罪行。
“Before, if there was an acid attack, police never took action. But now it is like rape,” Alok Dixit, the founder of a group called Stop Acid Attacks, told The Wall Street Journal in March.
“以前，如果发生泼酸攻击事件，警方不会采取行动。但现在这种行为就像强奸一样，”停止泼酸攻击”(Stop Acid Attacks)组织创始人阿洛克·迪克西(Alok Dixit)在今年3月对《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)表示。
Mr. Nayak said the actual number of attacks was likely higher, and he put the number closer to 1,000 attacks a year.
纳亚克表示，攻击事件的实际数量可能更高，他觉得这个数字接近一年1000起。
The video campaign and similar efforts are trying to further limit the sale of acid and other materials that can be used in attacks, and to call for improved medical treatment and legal assistance for victims, Mr. Nayak said. (Ms. Quereshi told People magazine last week that she did not receive any aid from the government to cover the cost of medical treatment and instead turned to an online donation site to raise money.)
纳亚克表示，这个视频活动及类似的努力是为了进一步限制强酸及其他用于攻击的物质的销售，呼吁加强对受害者的医疗治疗和法律援助。（奎雷希上周告诉《人物》[People]杂志，她没有收到政府提供的医疗资助，转而通过在线捐助网站筹款。）
In addition to the videos produced by Make Love Not Scars, online activists are appropriating the tactics used by beauty industry marketers to draw attention to survivors. Supporters on social media have posted “faceless selfies” to help raise funds for survivors, and others have circulated a photo calendar online.
除了“要爱不要疤痕”组织制作的视频，网络活动人士借用美容行业营销人员的策略，吸引人们关注幸存者。社交媒体上的支持者发布了一些“无脸自拍照”，帮助幸存者筹集资金，其他人则在网上传播相关的彩色照片日历。
Rahul Saharan, a photographer in New Delhi who worked on the calendar, said the project was meant to empower survivors, who often feel isolated and stigmatized. In the calendar, one woman poses in a lab coat, holding a sign that says, “I wanted to be a doctor.” Other victims are photographed standing in a chef’s kitchen, sitting in front of a microphone and holding a book.
负责日历照片拍摄的新德里摄影师拉胡尔·萨哈兰(Rahul Saharan)表示，当时做这个项目是为赋予幸存者力量，因为她们往往会觉得自己被孤立，感觉羞耻。日历中有一页拍摄的是一名穿着白大褂的女性，她手上举着一个牌子，写着“我以前想成为一名医生。”日历中展现的其他受害人，有的站在专业厨房里，有的坐在麦克风前，还有人捧着一本书。
“The calendar is basically shot on their dreams that they had before their attack,” he said.
“这本日历拍摄的基本上都是她们的梦想，也就是她们在被泼硫酸之前想要成为的人，”他说。
Mr. Saharan said that survivors were often harshly judged against conventional Indian standards of beauty — fair skin, a defined nose and large eyes. Those features are often targeted by attackers who want to leave a woman physically disfigured and emotionally traumatized. In 2011, researchers at Cornell University found that the perpetrators of these attacks are nearly always men; most are potential suitors or husbands who attack women after they reject a proposal or fail to fetch a large enough dowry.
萨哈兰表示，这些幸存者经常被拿来以印度传统的审美标准进行严厉评判，在这一标准下，白皮肤、高鼻梁、大眼睛才是美。而这些也往往成为袭击者攻击的目标，他们想让女性外貌被损坏，心理留下创伤。2011年，康奈尔大学的研究人员发现，实施此类袭击的凶手几乎总是男性，他们大多数是追求者或是丈夫，在女性拒绝了求婚或没为男方带来大额嫁妆的情况下，对她们施以毒手。
Mr. Saharan, who has also organized fashion- and beauty-themed photo shoots of survivors, said that efforts had succeeded in making the women feel less afraid to appear in public, and empowered some to share their stories publicly.
萨哈兰还组织了一场为幸存者拍摄时尚和美容主题照片的活动，他表示该活动取得了一定成功，使这些女性相对不那么害怕出现在公共场合，也让她们有勇气公开讲述自己的经历。
Sheroes Hangout, a cafe in Agra, about 130 miles south of New Delhi, only employs acid attack survivors. It was opened by the same people behind the Stop Acid Attacks group, and they would like it to be a safe space for survivors to come and discuss feminism and equal rights.
位于新德里南部130英里的阿格拉，有一家名为Sheroes Hangout的咖啡馆，这里只雇用遭遇硫酸袭击的幸存者。这个咖啡馆也是由“停止泼酸攻击”组织背后的人出资开办，他们希望这里成为一个安全的场所，让幸存者来这里讨论女权和平权话题。