JAKARTA, Indonesia — The quiet afternoon coffee date nine months ago at an upscale Jakarta cafe ended when Wayan Mirna Salihin, after one sip of her iced Vietnamese coffee, collapsed suddenly. Hours later, she was dead.
印度尼西亚雅加达——9个月前，在雅加达某家高档餐厅里一次平静的下午咖啡约会中，瓦延·米尔娜·萨利赫因(Wayan Mirna Salihin)喝下一口越南冰咖啡后，突然昏倒。数小时后死亡。
An autopsy on the 27-year-old woman’s body found that she had died of cyanide poisoning. On Wednesday, a court in Indonesia ruled that her coffee companion, Jessica Kumala Wongso, killed her friend by spiking her drink.
对这名27岁女子的尸检报告显示，她死于氰化物中毒。周三，印度尼西亚的一家法院裁定，和她一起喝咖啡的朋友杰西卡·库马拉·旺索(Jessica Kumala Wongso)在她的饮料里下毒，导致她死亡。
The verdict, in what has been called the “coffee murder” case, was read on live television. TV One, a private national broadcaster, showed every minute of the trial, which gripped Indonesia as well as Australia, where the women attended college together.
法官在电视直播中宣读了对这起被称为“咖啡谋杀案”的判决。私人全国电视台TV One直播了庭审全过程。审判过程在印度尼西亚和澳大利亚都引发极大关注。这两名女子曾一起在澳洲上大学。
When Wongso was sentenced Wednesday to 20 years in prison, her supporters, who packed half the courtroom, could be heard gasping at the verdict. Wongso denounced the ruling as “unfair and one-sided” as she was led from the courtroom by the police. Members of the victim’s family broke down in tears.
周三，当旺索被判入狱20年时，能听到占据法庭一半位置的她的支持者发出惊叹之声。旺索被警察带离法庭时，谴责判决“偏颇不公”。受害者家属则泪流满面。
The case set off morbid curiosity and made national headlines after Wongso was arrested in late January, three weeks after she and Salihin, both graphic designers, met with another friend at Olivier, the cafe, inside Indonesia’s largest upscale shopping mall.
1月底旺索被捕后，此案引发了病态的好奇程度，成为全国新闻头条。在被捕时间的三周前，她和萨利赫因——两人都是平面设计师——以及另一个朋友在印尼最大的高档购物中心里的奥利维亚餐厅(Olivier)会面。
Intrigued residents have flocked to the restaurant to sit in the booth where Salihin was poisoned and to order the iced Vietnamese coffee that was the last thing she drank. The restaurant regularly runs out of the brew.
好奇的居民纷纷来到这家餐厅，坐在萨利赫因中毒的那个卡位上，点她最后喝的越南冰咖啡。这款饮料经常售罄。
Closed-circuit television footage from inside the restaurant Jan. 6 showed Wongso arriving about an hour before Salihin and the third woman. After sitting in a booth, she quickly ordered drinks for the three of them.
这家餐厅1月6日的闭路电视录像显示，旺索比萨利赫因和另外那名女子提前约一个小时到达餐厅。坐进卡位后，她很快为她们三个都点了饮料。
The footage showed Wongso putting three shopping bags she had with her on the table, blocking her and the drinks from the camera’s view. After making a series of unknown movements, she placed the bags on the seat.
录像显示，旺索把随身携带的三个购物袋放到餐桌上，挡住她和饮料，以免被摄像头拍到。在做了一系列不为人知的动作后，她把购物袋放到了座位上。
Prosecutors argued that the defendant was lacing Salihin’s iced coffee with cyanide from behind her makeshift screen.
检察官们称，被告当时是在自己临时放置的屏障后面往萨利赫因的冰咖啡里搅入氰化物。
After Salihin arrived at the restaurant and joined her friend at the booth, she took a sip of her drink and then complained that it tasted funny. Within a minute, Salihin collapsed and began violently convulsing. She was rushed to a hospital and died a few hours later.
萨利赫因到餐厅后，坐到卡位上，喝了一口饮料，抱怨它的味道奇怪。不到一分钟后，萨利赫因昏倒在地，开始剧烈抽搐。她被迅速送往医院，数小时后死亡。
The panel of judges that heard the case against Wongso agreed that the grainy footage was convincing evidence despite the fact the defendant’s actions were shielded from view.
审理此案的几位法官认为，这段模糊的录像是可信的证据，尽管被告的动作被挡住了。
“This deed was vile and sadistic, committed against her own friend,” said Kisworo, the chief judge, who, like many Indonesians, goes by only one name.
“这一行径卑鄙残酷，她对自己的朋友下了手，”主审法官基斯沃罗(Kisworo)说。和很多印尼人一样，他只有名，没有姓。
After the autopsy was completed Jan. 10, investigators questioned Wongso five times and conducted three re-enactments of the episode before arresting her Jan. 30.
1月10日尸检结束后，侦查员五次讯问旺索，对当时的情景进行了三次重演，最终于1月30日逮捕了她。
During the investigation and the court trial, which attracted fevered attention from the media, it emerged that Wongso had attempted suicide while living in Australia and that she was involved in a drunken-driving accident.
此案的调查和庭审引发了媒体的狂热关注。在这个过程中，调查者还发现，旺索在澳大利亚居住期间，曾试图自杀，还曾卷入一起醉驾事故。
Prosecutors said during the trial that Wongso had decided to kill Salihin because Salihin had once “insulted” the defendant’s former boyfriend by advising her to break up with him. Salihin had also recently married, causing the defendant to become increasingly angry and jealous of the victim, according to prosecutors.
检察官们在庭审中称，旺索决定杀死萨利赫因是因为后者曾劝她跟前男友分手，因此“羞辱”了他。据检察官们称，萨利赫因前不久刚结婚，这也导致被告更加怨恨和嫉妒受害者。
Wongso, who was living in Sydney, returned home for a holiday last December with plans to get revenge on Salihin by killing her, prosecutors contended.
检察官们称，去年12月，住在悉尼的旺索因节日返乡，打算报复萨利赫因，将她杀死。
Restaurant employees noted that Wongso showed no emotion after Salihin went into convulsions and made no effort to come to her aid.
多名餐厅员工指出，萨利赫因开始抽搐后，旺索无动于衷，没有采取任何救助行动。
An Australian toxicology expert testifying for the defense said that the cyanide found in Salihin’s body would not have been enough to kill her, but the judges rejected his testimony.
一名为被告作证的澳大利亚毒理学专家称，萨利赫因尸体中发现的氰化物不足以致死，但法官们没有采纳他的证词。
After the verdict, Wongso’s defense team announced that it would appeal.
宣判后，旺索的辩护律师团宣布将上诉。
“We are concerned and disappointed, because the judges did not fully consider the evidence that we presented at the trial,” said Otto Hasibuan, Wongso’s lead defense attorney.
“我们感到担忧和失望，因为法官们没有充分考虑我们在庭审中出示的证据，”旺索的主要辩护律师奥托·哈西卜(Otto Hasibuan)称。