NEW DELHI — Watching Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the last month, as he began to carve out an image for himself beyond India’s borders, one might have gotten the impression that Mohandas K. Gandhi was his ideological progenitor, or his running mate.
新德里——过去一个月，随着印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)开始在印度境外塑造自己的形象，观察他的人兴许会感觉莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)是他思想上的先驱，或是他的竞选伙伴。
Gandhi is everywhere in Delhi these days. A stylized drawing of his steel-rimmed, circular glasses is the logo of Mr. Modi’s new cleanliness drive, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, introduced with great fanfare on the anniversary of Gandhi’s birth. He is posed with a broom and basket on the cover of Organiser, the magazine of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the right-wing Hindu organization connected to Mr. Modi’s party. When the president of China, Xi Jinping, visited, Mr. Modi received him at Gandhi’s ashram. Then Mr. Modi visited President Obama in the United States and presented him with a copy of Gandhi’s translation of the Bhagavad Gita.
这些天，德里到处可见甘地。在甘地诞辰那一天，莫迪声势浩大地推出了清洁印度运动(Swachh Bharat Abhiyan)。这场新清洁运动的标识，是一幅风格化的画，画上是甘地那副钢框圆眼镜。在与莫迪所在的政党有关联的右翼印度教团体民族志工组织(Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)的杂志《组织者》(Organiser)封面上，甘地手持扫帚和篮子。莫迪还在甘地的修行地接待了来访的中国国家主席习近平。后来在美国拜访奥巴马总统时，莫迪送给对方了一本甘地翻译的《博伽梵歌》(Bhagavad Gita)。
Gandhi, of course, is an unlikely avatar for the ascendant right wing in India. For most of the last century, Gandhi has been the symbolic leader of the Indian National Congress party, which Mr. Modi drove from power this year. Gandhi’s economic vision was fundamentally anticapitalist: He extolled rural over urban life and called industrialization “a curse for mankind.” During his lifetime, Gandhi was excoriated by right-wing activists — including the man who assassinated him — for acquiescing to the creation of Pakistan and advocating the rights of India’s Muslim minority.
当然，甘地不太可能成为势头渐涨的印度右翼的化身。在过去一个世纪，甘地大部分时候都是印度国民大会党(Indian National Congress)的象征性领袖。今年，莫迪将该党赶下了台。甘地的经济愿景从根本上来说是反对资本主义的：他赞美乡村生活，而非城市生活，并称工业化是“对人类的诅咒”。在其有生之年，甘地因为默许巴基斯坦立国，并倡导印度占少数的穆斯林的权利而遭到右翼活动人士——包括刺杀他的那名男子——的严厉抨击。
Though Mr. Modi has always spoken of Gandhi with respect, he has echoed the criticism that Congress leaders gave preferential treatment to India’s minorities. Mr. Modi’s reputation as a Hindu hard-liner was defined in 2002, when bloody sectarian riots broke out under his watch as chief minister of the state of Gujarat. No Indian court has found him responsible for the riots, which left more than 1,200 dead, most of them Muslims.
尽管说起甘地时，莫迪总是怀着敬意，但他附和了对国会领袖为印度少数群体提供优待的批评。2002年，在莫迪担任首席部长的古吉拉特邦爆发了血腥的宗派暴乱。当时就定义了他印度教强硬派的名声。印度没有哪家法院裁决他应对相关暴乱负责。暴乱导致1200多人死亡，大部分是穆斯林。
So the Gandhi now embraced by Mr. Modi is an edited version. First and foremost, he is a preacher of cleanliness — a fair depiction, since he was passionate on the subject, known for seizing brooms and for insisting that even highborn followers, like his wife, empty their own chamber pots.
因此，莫迪现在拥护的甘地，是经过剪辑后的版本。首先，他宣扬清洁——这一点是属实的，因为甘地对这个主题充满热情。众所周知，他自己手握扫帚打扫，还坚持要求即便是像他妻子那样出身名门的追随者，也要自己倒便壶。
Mr. Modi has endorsed some elements of Gandhi’s economic thinking, urging consumers to buy homespun cloth instead of imported products. But his Gandhi hardly believes that “the future of India lies in its villages.” To a prosperous crowd of mainly Indian-Americans at Madison Square Garden in New York last month, Mr. Modi described Gandhi as a character remarkably like them, a man who “went abroad, became a barrister, had opportunities,” but “came back to serve the nation.”
莫迪认可甘地的经济思想中的部分内容，鼓励消费者购买国内纺织的服装，而非进口产品。但他拥护的甘地，几乎不相信“印度的未来在它的村庄”。上月，面对纽约麦迪逊广场花园主要由印裔美国人组成的一群富人，莫迪将甘地描述成了一个非常像他们的人物，称其“走出国门、当上了律师、拥有众多机会”，但却“回来报效国家”。
Tushar A. Gandhi, the great-grandson of the independence leader, has watched this process from his home in Mumbai with curiosity and, at times, satisfaction.
这位独立领袖的曾孙图沙尔·A·甘地(Tushar A. Gandhi)在自己位于孟买的家里，怀着好奇和偶尔的满足感，观看了这场活动。
He noted, however, that during his 12 years as a state leader, Mr. Modi had never invoked Gandhi with such enthusiasm.
但他指出，在担任邦领导人的12年里，莫迪从未如此热情地提起过甘地。
“In this short period of 100 days that he has been the prime minister of India, it seems everything he does is guided by Bapu,” he said, using an affectionate term meaning father. “It is a bit of a surprise. The only thing I can say at the moment is, I hope it is sincere.”
“在当上印度总理这短短的100天里，似乎他做到一切都是受了巴布的引导，“他说。“有些意外。此刻我只能说，希望这种举动是真诚的。”他用到的巴布(Bapu)是对甘地的一个爱称，意为父亲。
Tushar Gandhi declared last week that Mr. Modi’s rollout of the cleanliness campaign, which required top officials to go out and clean neighborhoods, was the only celebration in decades “which would have gotten Bapu’s seal of approval.”
图沙尔·甘地上周称，莫迪推出要求高官出门清扫社区的清洁运动，是几十年来唯一一次“会得到巴布认可”的庆祝活动。
Whether it represents an ideological shift toward the center is still unclear. Mr. Modi has a knack, unique among recent Indian leaders, for broadcasting political signals in all directions at once. Prabhu Chawla, editorial director of The New Indian Express, ticked off a long list of gestures aimed at proving Mr. Modi’s credentials as a Hindu nationalist. When he visited Nepal on a two-day trip, he stopped to make an offering at a famous Hindu temple. At the White House, he stuck to a religious fast and refused to eat or drink anything except hot water.
这是否代表着思想上朝中间立场的转变，目前尚不明朗。在近几任印度领导人中显得独特的是，莫迪熟谙同时向各个方向发出政治信号。《新印度快报》(The New Indian Express)的编辑主任普拉布·差瓦叻(Prabhu Chawla)在一份长长的清单上进行了勾选。那份清单上列着旨在证明莫迪印度教民族主义者身份的姿态。在对尼泊尔进行为期两天的访问时，他在一处著名的印度教寺庙停下来祭拜。在白宫时，他坚持宗教斋戒，拒绝进食或引用除热水外的任何东西。
“His idea of India is Hindi Hindu — people who speak Hindi and those who are Hindu,” Mr. Chawla said. “He is wearing his Hinduism on his sleeve, and saying, ‘You take it or leave it.’ ”
“他对印度的观点是印地印度教——说印地语的人和印度教教徒，”差瓦叻说。“他在明白无误地宣扬印度教，表示‘不管你怎么看，我信定了。’”
Elements of Gandhi’s thinking fell by the wayside, he said, such as the love he professed for India’s Muslims and his vision of a “feminized,” less aggressive Hinduism. Professor Varshney added that there was nothing unusual in that.
他说，甘地思想的内容被抛弃了，比如他对印度的穆斯林表现出来的爱，以及他对一个“女性化”的、不那么咄咄逼人的印度教的愿景。布朗大学(Brown University)政治学教授阿舒托什·瓦什尼(Ashutosh Varshney)补充说，这种情况很正常。
“No one in India, not even Congress, has fully embraced Gandhi,” he said. “Gandhi is the father of the nation, no doubt. But Gandhi is also a difficult father.”
“在印度，没有谁完全赞成甘地，即使是国会，”他说。“毫无疑问，甘地是国父。但甘地也是一个不好相处的父亲。”
Cleanliness, in any case, is a proposition that no one can dispute.
在任何情况下，都没人质疑清洁这个主张。