SYDNEY, Australia — The unmanned submersible scouring the ocean floor for wreckage from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is nearing the end of its underwater search, having covered 80 percent of an area authorities believe to be the most likely resting place of the plane and its 239 passengers.
澳大利亚悉尼——在海底搜寻马航370次客机残骸的无人潜水器即将结束水下搜寻任务，它的搜索已经覆盖了目标区域80%的范围，相关机构认为，该区域最有可能是失联客机和机上239名乘客的安息之地。
The Bluefin-21, on its ninth mission on Tuesday, was searching an area of the Indian Ocean about 1,000 miles northwest of Perth, the capital of Western Australia. The agency coordinating the search said the underwater zone is defined as a circle with a 6.2-mile radius around the last acoustic signal detected on April 8.
周二，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)还在西澳大利亚首府帕斯西北约1000英里处的印度洋海域执行第九次搜寻任务。协调搜寻工作的机构表示，他们划定的水下搜寻区是一个半径6.2英里的圆形区域，以4月8日探测到的最后一段音频信号为圆心。
The searches began after the Australian naval vessel Ocean Shield picked up four acoustic signals, two on April 5 and two more on April 8, using a towed pinger locator. At that time, the plane had been missing for a month after veering off course on March 8 on a routine flight between Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Beijing.
此次搜寻展开之前，澳大利亚海军军舰海盾号(Ocean Shield)利用拖曳声波探测仪探测到了四段音频信号，其中有两段是4月5日探测到的，还有两段是4月8日探测到的。那时候，客机已失踪了一个月。3月8日，客机在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的常规飞行途中偏离航线，此后便杳无音信。
“Bluefin-21 has now completed more than 80 percent of the focused underwater search area and further missions are planned,” the Joint Agency Coordination Center said in an email. “It is important this lead is pursued to its completion so we can either confirm or discount the focused underwater area as the final resting place of MH370.” So far, no debris that can be identified as linked to the aircraft has been found and the Bluefin has not recorded any data that shows promise in finding any wreckage.
澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center) 在一封电子邮件里表示，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21目前已搜索了目标海域超过80%的范围，下一步任务也已有了规划。彻底探究这一线索至关重要，这样我们就能够确认或排除目标海域是MH370次班机最终的葬身之地。”迄今为止，搜寻人员还没有找到可辨识的失联班机相关残骸，蓝鳍也没有记录到能为找到残骸带来希望的任何数据。
Bad weather resulted in an interruption to the aerial search Tuesday morning as Tropical Cyclone Jack headed southeast toward the search zone. The agency said 10 ships remained in the area, and five planes had left Pearce air base near Perth before the search was halted, but a further five would remain grounded for the day.
周二早间，热带气旋“杰克”(Tropical Cyclone Jack)向东南方向推进，接近搜索区域，糟糕的天气状况致使空中搜索行动中断。该机构表示，搜索区域仍有10搜船舰，还有五架飞机在搜索行动中止之前即已离开珀斯附近的皮尔斯空军基地，但另外五架飞机当天将会停飞。
The Joint Agency Coordination Center said in a separate email that “if we don’t find the wreckage, we will then stop, regroup and reconsider.” But there has been no word on whether authorities have called for deep-sea equipment with greater capabilities, or if other methods would be used to better calculate where the plane may have gone into the ocean. The Australian authorities believe the plane could be sitting in silt, as much as 15,000 feet down into the ocean — a depth that has already tested the capabilities of the Bluefin-21.
联合机构协调中心在另一封邮件中表示，“如果没有找到残骸，我们会停止行动，重新部署，重新考虑。”但邮件没有提到，相关机构是否已要求调用能力更强的深海设备，是否会使用其他方法，以便更有效地推测飞机的位置。澳大利亚当局认为，飞机可能位于深达1.5万英尺（约合4600米）处的海底淤泥之中，这个深度已经对蓝鳍金枪鱼-21的能力形成了考验。
“The search will continue,” the agency said in an email Tuesday. “We are currently consulting very closely with our international partners on the best way to effect this for the future.”
“搜索行动将会继续，”该机构在周二的邮件中写道，“目前，我们正在就未来的最佳搜索方式与国际合作伙伴进行密切磋商。”