BANGALORE, India — While India’s recent launch of a spacecraft to Mars was a remarkable feat in its own right, it is the $75 million mission’s thrifty approach to time, money and materials that is getting attention.
印度班加罗尔——虽然印度最近发射的火星探测器本身就是一件了不起的成就，但引人关注的重点却是，这次任务只花了7500万美元（约合4.55亿元人民币），在时间、金钱和材料上均颇为节省。
Just days after the launch of India’s Mangalyaan satellite, NASA sent off its own Mars mission, five years in the making, named Maven. Its cost: $671 million. The budget of India’s Mars mission, by contrast, was just three-quarters of the $100 million that Hollywood spent on last year’s space-based hit, “Gravity.”
就在印度发射了“火星飞船”(Mangalyaan)探测器的几天之后，美国国家航空航天局(NASA)也发射了自己的火星探测器MAVEN。NASA的任务花费了五年时间，耗资6.71亿美元。相比之下，印度的火星探测任务的预算只有好莱坞花在去年上映的太空大片《地心引力》(Gravity)上的四分之三。这部影片的资金投入为1亿美元。
“The mission is a triumph of low-cost Indian engineering,” said Roddam Narasimha, an aerospace scientist and a professor at Bangalore’s Jawaharlal Nehru Center for Advanced Scientific Research.
班加罗尔的贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁先进科学研究中心(Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research)的太空科学家兼教授罗达姆·纳拉辛哈(Roddam Narasimha)说，“这次任务是印度低成本工程的一大胜利。”
“By excelling in getting so much out of so little, we are establishing ourselves as the most cost-effective center globewide for a variety of advanced technologies,” said Mr. Narasimha.
纳拉辛哈说，“我们如此出色地用这么少的资源做了这么多事情。我们正成为集多项先进技术于一身的成效最高的全球中心。”
India’s 3,000-pound Mars satellite carries five instruments that will measure methane gas, a marker of life on the planet. Maven (for Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution), weighs nearly twice as much but carries eight heavy-duty instruments that will investigate what went wrong in the Martian climate, which could have once supported life.
印度的火星探测卫星重约1.4吨，携带了五台用以寻找甲烷信号的设备。甲烷是火星上有生命迹象的标志。Maven（“火星大气与挥发演化”[Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution]的缩写）的重量为印度探测卫星的两倍，携带八台肩负重任的设备。这些设备将对可能曾经适宜生命存在的火星气候后来出了什么问题进行调查。
“Ours is a contrasting, inexpensive and innovative approach to the very complex mission,” said K. Radhakrishnan, the chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization, or ISRO, in an interview at the space agency’s heavily guarded Bangalore headquarters. “Yet it is a technically well-conceived and designed mission,” he said. Wealthier countries may have little incentive to pursue technological advances on the cheap, but not a populous, resource-starved country. So jugaad, or building things creatively and inexpensively, has become a national strength. India built the world’s cheapest car ($2,500), the world’s cheapest tablet ($49), and even quirkier creations like flour mills powered by scooters.
印度空间研究组织（Indian Space Research Organization，简称ISRO）负责人K·拉达克里希南(K. Radhakrishnan)在该组织位于班加罗尔的守卫森严的总部接受采访时说，“我们是在用一种与众不同的低成本创新方式来完成一项非常复杂的任务。但是，这次任务在技术上是经过合理构思和设计的。”更富裕的国家可能不愿追求低成本的技术进步，但人口众多又资源贫乏的国家就另当别论了。因此，创造性地用低成本完成任务已经成为这个国家的强项。印度制造了世界上最便宜的汽车（2500美元）、世界上最便宜的平板电脑（49美元），甚至是像踏板车驱动的面粉厂这样的更为奇怪的东西。
“If necessity is the mother of invention, constraint is the mother of frugal innovation,” said Terri Bresenham, the chief executive of GE Healthcare, South Asia, who is based in Bangalore. GE Healthcare has the largest research and development operations in India and has produced low-cost innovations in infant health, cancer detection and heart disease treatment.
位于班加罗尔的GE医疗南亚公司(GE Healthcare)的首席执行官泰里·布勒森哈姆(Terri Bresenham)说，“如果说需求是创新之母的话，限制就是节俭创新之母。”GE医疗在印度拥有最大的研发部门，已经在新生儿健康、癌症诊查以及心脏病治疗方面找到了低成本的创新方法。
In India, even a priority sector like space research gets a meager 0.34 percent of the country’s total annual outlay. Its $1 billion space budget is only 5.5 percent of NASA’s budget.
在印度，即便是像太空研究这样的优先领域，也只能可怜巴巴地占到国家年度预算的0.34%。该国10亿美元的太空项目预算也仅相当于NASA预算的5.5%。
ISRO has learned to make cost-effectiveness a daily mantra. Its inexpensive but reliable launch capabilities have become popular for the launches of small French, German and British satellites. Although the space agency had to build ground systems from scratch, its Chandrayaan moon mission in 2008 cost one-tenth what other nations’ moon shots cost, said Mylswamy Annadurai, mission director.
ISRO已经学会把提高成本效益作为时刻牢记于心的准则。其成本不高且值得信赖的发射技术成为法国、德国和英国发射小型卫星时的常见选择。尽管这家太空探索机构不得不从零开始建立地面系统，但2008年的月球探测器“月船”(Chandrayaan)的项目主任米尔斯瓦米·安纳杜拉伊(Mylswamy Annadurai)说，该任务的花费，仅为其他国家探月发射成本的十分之一。
The most obvious way ISRO does it is low-cost engineering talent, the same reason so many software firms use Indian engineers. India’s abundant supply of young technical talent helped rein in personnel costs to less than 15 percent of the budget. “Rocket scientists in India cost very little,” said Ajey Lele, a researcher at a New Delhi think tank, the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, and author of “Mission Mars: India’s Quest for the Red Planet.”
ISRO能够做到这一点，最显而易见的原因是低成本的工程技术人才——这也是许多软件公司雇佣印度工程师的原因。印度的年轻技术人员充足，有助于把人力成本控制在预算的15%以下。新德里智库国防研究与分析研究所(Institute for Defense Studies and Analysis)的研究员、著有《火星任务：印度的红色星球探索》(Mission Mars: India’s Quest for the Red Planet)的艾杰·拉勒(Ajey Lele)说，“印度火箭科学家的工资非常低。”
The average age of India’s 2,500-person Mars team is 27. “At 50, I am the oldest member of my team; the next oldest is 32,” said Subbiah Arunan, the project’s director. Entry-level Indian space engineers make about $1,000 a month, less than a third of what their Western counterparts make.
印度的火星探索团队由2500人组成，平均年龄为27岁。项目负责人苏比亚·阿鲁南(Subbiah Arunan)说，“我50岁，是我们团队年龄最大的成员；年龄第二大的32岁。”印度初级航天工程师的工资大约是每月1000美元，还不到西方同类工程师的三分之一。
The Indians also had a short development schedule that contributed heavily to the mission’s low cost, said Andrew Coates, planetary scientist at University College London and a leader of the European ExoMars expedition planned for 2018. The engineers had to compress their efforts into 18 months (other countries’ space vehicles have taken six years or more to build). It was either launch by November 2013 or wait another 26 months when the geometry of the sun, Mars and Earth would again be perfect for a launch.
2018年ExoMars火星探测计划的负责人之一、伦敦大学学院(University College London)的行星科学家安德鲁·科茨(Andrew Coates)说，印度的开发周期很短，这也是其太空探测任务成本较低的一个主要原因。工程师们的工作必须在18个月之内完成（其他国家建造空间探测器至少需要六年）。要么2013年11月之前发射，要么再等26个月，到太阳、火星和地球的位置再次适于发射的时候。
“Since the time was so short, for the first time in the history of such a project, we scheduled tasks by the hour — not days, not weeks,” said Mr. Arunan. Mr. Radhakrishnan added: “Could we pull it off in less than two years’ time? Frankly, I doubted it.”
阿鲁南说，“因为时间如此短暂，我们的任务安排是以小时——不是天、也不是星期为单位，这在类似项目的历史上是头一次。”拉达克里希南补充说：“我们能在两年之内完成它吗？老实说，我当时很怀疑。”
Cost savings also came from using similar systems across a dozen concurrent projects. Many related technologies could be used in the Mars project; Astrosat, an astronomy mission to be launched in late 2014; the second moon mission, which is two years away; and even Aditya, a solar mission four years out.
成本节约的原因还在于，在十几个同时进行的项目上使用相似的系统。许多彼此关联的技术可以被用于这次火星项目，比如即将于2014年末启动的太空项目Astrosat、距今还有两年时间的第二次探月，乃至四年后的太阳系探测任务“太阳神”(Aditya)。
Systems like the attitude control, which maintains the orientation of the spacecraft; the gyro, a sensor that measures the satellite’s deviation from its set path; or the star tracker, a sensor that orients the satellite to distant objects in the celestial sphere, are the same across several ISRO missions.
像保持飞行器朝向的姿态控制系统、测量卫星偏离预设轨道程度的陀螺仪、以及在太空让卫星对准天球中远处星体的恒星追踪器，这些系统在ISRO的几个探测任务中都是通用的。
“The building blocks are kept the same so we don’t have to tailor-make for each mission,” said Mr. Annadurai of the moon mission. “Also, we have a ready backup if a system fails.”
探月任务的安纳杜拉伊说，“基本要素都保持了一致，所以我们不需要为每一项任务进行专门定制。此外，如果某个系统失灵，我们有现成的备用系统。”
Teams also did the kind of thing engineers working on missions do around the world. They worked through weekends with no overtime pay, putting in more hours to the dollar. Mr. Arunan slept on the couch in his office through the 18 months, rereading his favorite P. G. Wodehouse novels to relieve stress. "This is the Indian way of working,” said Mr. Annadurai.
这些团队也在做全世界承担太空探测任务的工程师都会做的一件事。他们周末加班加点，没有加班费却要多工作好些个小时。阿鲁南这18个月一直睡在办公室的沙发上，为了缓解压力，重新读起了他最喜欢的P·G·伍德豪斯(P. G. Wodehouse)的小说。安纳杜拉伊说，这就是印度人的工作方式。
Despite its cost-effectiveness, many have argued that India’s extraterrestrial excursions are profligate in a country starved of even basic necessities like clean drinking water and toilets. Millions sleep hungry at night, critics have emphasized. They condemn the Mars mission as nothing more than showing off.
尽管非常划算，但许多人认为，在连清洁饮用水和厕所等基本的生活必需条件都缺乏的印度，太空探索活动是一种浪费。批评人士强调，印度还有很多人每天晚上饿着肚子睡觉。他们谴责说，火星探测任务纯粹是为了炫耀。
Scientists have also said that space exploration and the alleviation of poverty need not be mutually exclusive. “If the Mars mission’s $75 million was distributed equally to every Indian, they would be able to buy a cup of roadside chai once every three years,” said Mr. Narasimha, the aerospace scientist, referring to the tea that many Indians drink.
科学家们却说，空间探索和扶贫并不矛盾。太空科学家纳拉辛哈说，“如果火星探测项目的7500万美元平均分摊给每一个印度人，也只够他们用这些钱每三年在路边买一杯香料奶茶。”
“My guess is that even the poorest Indians will happily forgo their chai to be able to see their country send a rocket all the way to Mars.”
“我想，即使是最贫困的印度人也愿意放弃自己的奶茶，选择让自己的祖国把火箭送上火星吧。”