HONG KONG — She claimed that her employer kicked her and beat her with a vacuum cleaner pipe. She said that she was given only one bottle of water a day to minimize toilet breaks, was forced to sleep on the floor and became emaciated for lack of food.
香港——她声称雇主踢她，用吸尘器管打她。她说雇主每天只给她一瓶水，从而最大程度地减少她上洗手间的次数。她还被迫在地板上睡觉，因为缺乏食物而瘦弱不堪。
On Tuesday, a court here agreed, vindicating Erwiana Sulistyaningsih, a domestic servant from Indonesia, by finding her former employer, Law Wan-tung, guilty of 18 charges. They included inflicting “grievous bodily harm,” assault and failure to pay wages. Ms. Law, 44, now awaits sentencing at the end of this month. She faces up to seven years’ imprisonment.
周二，这里的一家法院对上述说法表示赞同，认定印度尼西亚籍女佣艾维亚纳·苏里斯特亚宁斯(Erwiana Sulistyaningsih)的说法属实，裁定其前雇主罗允彤(Law Wan-tung)有18项罪名成立。其中包括“对他人身体加以严重伤害”、袭击，以及拖欠工资。44岁的罗允彤将于本月底接受宣判。她面临着最长七年的监禁。
“To employers in Hong Kong, I hope they will start treating migrant workers as workers and human beings and stop treating us like slaves,” Ms. Erwiana said after the verdict, reading a statement in English. “Because as human beings, we all have equal rights.”
“对于香港的雇主，我希望他们把外来劳工当成工人，当成人，别再把我们当奴隶对待，”艾维亚纳在判决后宣读的一份英文声明中说。“因为作为人，我们每个人都拥有平等的权利。”
Ms. Erwiana’s trial was closely watched in Hong Kong, where more than 300,000 domestic servants, mostly from Indonesia and the Philippines, work for expatriates and native residents.
艾维亚纳一案的审判在香港受到了密切关注。这里共有超过30万名家庭佣工，大多来自印度尼西亚和菲律宾，为外籍人士和本地居民工作。
By Hong Kong law, they live as second-class citizens, earning a small fraction of the minimum wage and being forced to live with their employers, often in tiny apartments. At times, as human rights groups have documented, they endure physical and emotional abuse, including sexual assault.
按照香港法律，这些人属于二等公民，薪水只有最低工资的一小部分，被迫与雇主一同住在狭窄的公寓里。根据人权组织的记录，他们有时还要忍受身体和精神上的折磨，其中包括性侵犯。
Despite the conditions, a minimum salary of just over $500 a month, plus food and an annual plane ticket home, is enough to attract many women to Hong Kong to cook, clean, and look after children and the elderly. They are eager to escape the grinding poverty in their native countries.
尽管条件恶劣，但是最低只有略高于500美元（约合3100元人民币）的薪水，再加上食物和一年一度的回乡机票，就足以吸引许多女性来香港做饭、打扫，以及照顾孩子和老人。她们都渴望能逃脱自己国家那难以忍受的贫穷。
For Ms. Erwiana, the home she left was in central Java, Indonesia, where she returned in January 2014 for medical treatment after working for eight months for Ms. Law, barely able to walk and with bruises on her body. The photos from the hospital ignited outrage, and Ms. Law was arrested. She pleaded not guilty to the assault charges.
艾维亚纳的家乡位于印尼爪哇岛中部，在为罗允彤工作8个月后，她于2014年1月返回家中接受治疗，伤痕累累的她几乎无法行走。来自医院的照片引起了人们的愤怒，罗允彤随后被捕。面对袭击指控，她没有认罪。
On Tuesday, Ms. Erwiana spoke to reporters in the basement of a Methodist church, just two blocks from where two other Indonesian women, both former domestic workers, were brutally killed in October, in a case that highlighted the yawning wealth and class divides in Hong Kong. A British banker, Rurik George Caton Jutting, has been charged with the killings and awaits trial.
周二，艾维亚纳在一个循道卫理教会的地下室接受记者采访，那里距离另外两名印尼女性遇害的地点只有两个街区。去年10月，两名曾经当过女佣的印尼女性被残忍杀害，该事件突显了香港巨大的财富和阶级鸿沟。英国银行业者鲁里克·乔治·卡顿·贾汀(Rurik George Caton Jutting)被控谋杀，正等候庭审。
During Ms. Erwiana’s trial, which lasted more than two weeks, she recounted in great detail the abuse Ms. Law meted out to her. At one point, according to an account of the trial in The South China Morning Post, Ms. Law shoved a vacuum cleaner rod into Ms. Erwiana’s mouth and twisted it, cutting her lips. In another instance, Ms. Law stripped Ms. Erwiana of her clothes in the wintertime, splashed cold water on her and pointed a blowing fan at her, according to the newspaper.
在长达两周多的庭审期间，艾维亚纳讲述了罗允彤虐待她的众多细节。根据《南华早报》的描述，罗允彤曾将吸尘器管塞到她的嘴里转动，致使嘴部受伤。该报报道，罗允彤还曾在冬天脱下她的衣服往她身上泼冷水，并用风扇对她吹风。
She testified that Ms. Law fed her a diet of bread and rice. The judge found Ms. Erwiana’s testimony credible, the newspaper reported.
艾维亚纳作证时称，罗允彤每日只提供几块面包和一碗饭作为食物。该报报道，法官采信了艾维亚纳的证词。
“The Labor Department will not tolerate unlawful acts of employers and will take stringent enforcement and prosecution actions against employers who fail to comply with the labor law,” the department said in a statement emailed to reporters.
劳工处在发给媒体的一封电子邮件声明中说，“劳工处不会容忍雇主的违法行为，将对那些不遵守劳工法的雇主采取严厉的执法行动，并提出指控。”
Roseann Rife, a researcher for Amnesty International in Hong Kong, said that the Hong Kong government should change rules requiring domestic workers to live with their employers and end a rule requiring the women to leave Hong Kong within 14 days of having their contracts terminated unless they can find another job. Both rules make it easier to mistreat the workers, she said.
香港法律规定佣工应与雇主同住，并要求女佣在合同终止的14天内离港，除非能找到其他工作。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)驻香港的研究员阮柔安(Roseann Rife)表示，香港政府应当对上述规定做出修改。她表示，这些规定使雇主虐待佣工更方便了。
By being forced to live with their employers, many domestic workers are on call 24 hours a day.
由于被迫与雇主同住，很多佣工要24小时随时待命。