WASHINGTON — FOR the past three decades, the Indian economy has grown impressively, at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent. From 2002 to 2011, when the average rate was 7.7 percent, India seemed to be closing in on China — unstoppable, and engaged in a second “tryst with destiny,” to borrow Jawaharlal Nehru’s phrase. The economic potential of its vast population, expected to be the world’s largest by the middle of the next decade, appeared to be unleashed as India jettisoned the stifling central planning and economic controls bequeathed it by Mr. Nehru and the nation’s other socialist founders.
华盛顿——过去30年，印度的经济增长令人印象深刻，年均增速达6.4%。2002年到2011年，印度显得势不可挡，年均经济增速达到7.7%，似乎即将追上中国，用贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)的话来说，印度像是迎来了第二次“命运之约”。随着印度甩开尼赫鲁以及其他信仰社会主义的开国领袖留下的、扼杀活力的中央计划和经济管控，印度庞大人口蕴含的经济潜力似乎得以释放。预计到2025年左右，印度将会成为世界第一人口大国。
But India’s self-confidence has been shaken. Growth has slowed to 4.4 percent a year; the rupee is in free fall, resulting in higher prices for imported goods; and the specter of a potential crisis, brought on by rising inflation and crippling budget deficits, looms.
但印度的自信已经开始动摇。印度的年度经济增速已经下降到4.4%。卢比如自由落体般贬值，导致进口商品价格上涨。日益增长的通货膨胀和严重的财政赤字引发了对潜在危机的担忧。
To some extent, India has been just another victim of the ebb and flow of global finance, which it embraced too enthusiastically. The threat (or promise) of tighter monetary policies at the Federal Reserve and a resurgent American economy threaten to suck capital, and economic dynamism, out of many emerging-market economies.
从某种程度上看，印度只不过是全球金融潮起潮落的又一个受害者。印度当初投入全球金融的怀抱有点操之过急了。美联储可能收紧货币政策的威胁（或承诺），以及美国经济的复苏可能会从许多新兴市场国家卷走大量资本，使这些国家丧失经济活力。
But India’s problems have deep and stubborn origins of the country’s own making.
但印度的问题归根结底还是自己造成的。
The current government, which took office in 2004, has made two fundamental errors. First, it assumed that growth was on autopilot and failed to address serious structural problems. Second, flush with revenues, it began major redistribution programs, neglecting their consequences: higher fiscal and trade deficits.
2004年上台的印度现政府犯了两个重大错误。首先，它想当然地认为增长是理所应当的，没有解决严重的结构性问题。第二，由于财政收入充足，印度政府启动了多个大规模的再分配项目，但却忽视了这些项目的后果：财政赤字和贸易赤字的扩大。
Structural problems were inherent in India’s unusual model of economic development, which relied on a limited pool of skilled labor rather than an abundant supply of cheap, unskilled, semiliterate labor. This meant that India specialized in call centers, writing software for European companies and providing back-office services for American health insurers and law firms and the like, rather than in a manufacturing model. Other economies that have developed successfully — Taiwan, Singapore, South Korea and China — relied in their early years on manufacturing, which provided more jobs for the poor.
印度不同寻常的经济发展模式中存在着固有的结构性问题。其经济发展模式依赖有限的技术型劳动力，而不是大量廉价、非技术型、半文盲的劳动力。这意味着印度只能专注于呼叫中心、为欧洲公司编写软件、为美国的寿险公司和律师事务所提供后勤服务等业务，而不是制造业模式。其他实现了成功发展的经济体——台湾、新加坡、韩国和中国大陆——早期都依赖制造业，这能够为穷人提供更多工作机会。
Two decades of double-digit growth in pay for skilled labor have caused wages to rise and have chipped away at India’s competitive advantage. Countries like the Philippines have emerged as attractive alternatives for outsourcing. India’s higher-education system is not generating enough talent to meet the demand for higher skills. Worst of all, India is failing to make full use of the estimated one million low-skilled workers who enter the job market every month.
印度技术工人工资在长达20年的时间里保持着两位数增长，这导致工资水平水涨船高，削弱了印度的竞争优势。菲律宾等国家成为了更有吸引力的外包服务选择。印度高等教育体系目前培养的人才不足以满足对更高技能的需求。最糟糕的是，印度未能充分利用每月涌入就业市场的大约100万低技术工人。
Manufacturing requires transparent rules and reliable infrastructure. India is deficient in both. High-profile scandals over the allocation of mobile broadband spectrum, coal and land have undermined confidence in the government. If land cannot be easily acquired and coal supplies easily guaranteed, the private sector will shy away from investing in the power grid. Irregular electricity holds back investments in factories.
制造业需要透明的规则和可靠的基础设施。这两者在印度都十分缺乏。有关移动宽带频谱、煤炭和土地分配的丑闻削弱了人们对政府的信心。如果土地不能被轻易获取，煤炭供应不能被保证，私营企业将不愿投资电网建设。电力供应不稳定又将抑制工厂投资。
India’s panoply of regulations, including inflexible labor laws, discourages companies from expanding. As they grow, large Indian businesses prefer to substitute machines for unskilled labor. During China’s three-decade boom (1978-2010), manufacturing accounted for about 34 percent of China’s economy. In India, this number peaked at 17 percent in 1995 and is now around 14 percent.
令人望而生畏的诸多印度法规，包括僵化的劳动法，打消了企业扩张的积极性。随着企业的发展，大型印度公司更愿意用机器代替没有技术的劳动力。在中国经济发展最快的30年里（1978-2010），制造业在中国经济中的比重大约为34%。在印度，这个数字1995年曾达到17%的峰值，目前为14%左右。
In fairness, poverty has sharply declined over the last three decades, to about 20 percent from around 50 percent. But since the greatest beneficiaries were the highly skilled and talented, the Indian public has demanded that growth be more inclusive. Democratic and competitive politics have compelled politicians to address this challenge, and revenues from buoyant growth provided the means to do so.
公平地说，过去30年，印度的贫穷人口比例大幅下降，从大约50%减少到了大约20%。但是，由于最大的受益者是高技术人才，印度公众希望经济增长更加具有包容性。民主和竞争性政治迫使政治家们必须应对这一挑战，而充满活力的经济增长带来了大量财政收入，这些收入为应对这一挑战提供了支持。
Thus, India provided guarantees of rural employment and kept up subsidies to the poor for food, power, fuel and fertilizer. The subsidies consume as much as 2.7 percent of gross domestic product, but corruption and inefficient administration have meant that the most needy often don’t reap the benefits.
因此，印度政府为农村地区提供了就业保障，并持续为穷人提供食品、电力、燃料和化肥补贴。这些补贴占用了多达2.7%的GDP，但是由于腐败和管理不善，最需要帮助的人往往无法从中获益。
Meanwhile, rural subsidies have pushed up wages, contributing to double-digit inflation. India’s fiscal deficit amounts to about 9 percent of gross domestic product (compared with structural deficits of around 2.5 percent in the United States and 1.9 percent in the European Union). To hedge against inflation and general uncertainty, consumers have furiously acquired gold, rendering the country reliant on foreign capital to finance its trade deficit.
与此同时，农村的补贴推高了工资水平，促成了两位数的通胀。印度的财政赤字相当于GDP的大约9%（相比之下，美国结构性赤字约占GDP的2.5%，欧盟为1.9%）。为了抵御通货膨胀和总体上的不确定性，消费者疯狂地购买黄金，导致印度需要依赖外国资本来弥补贸易赤字。
Economic stability can be restored through major reforms to cut inefficient spending and raise taxes, thereby pruning the deficit and taming inflation. The economist Raghuram G. Rajan, who just left the University of Chicago to run India’s central bank, has his work cut out for him. So do Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, also an economist, and the governing party, the Indian National Congress. These steps need not come at the expense of the poor. For example, India is implementing an ambitious biometric identification scheme that will allow targeted cash transfers to replace inefficient welfare programs.
通过一些旨在削减不必要支出、提高税收的大规模改革，印度可以减少赤字、控制通胀，进而恢复经济的稳定。这些工作正等待着刚刚辞去芝加哥大学职位并接掌印度央行的经济学家拉古拉迈·G·拉詹(Raghuram G. Rajan)去完成。印度总理莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)以及执政党印度国民大会党也不能袖手旁观。辛格本人同样是经济学家。这些措施不必以牺牲穷人的利益为代价。例如，印度正在实施一项宏大的生物身份认证计划，通过这一计划，政府将可以进行有针对性的现金转账，取消效率低下的福利项目。
India can still become a manufacturing powerhouse, if it makes major upgrades to its roads, ports and power systems and reforms its labor laws and business regulations. But the country is in pre-election mode until early next year. Elections increase pressures to spend and delay reform. So India’s weakness and turbulence may persist for some time yet.
如果对道路、港口和电力系统进行重大升级，并改革劳动法和商业法规，印度仍然能够成为制造业大国。但是印度明年年初即将迎来大选。大选会增加支出压力，拖延改革进程。所以，印度的脆弱和混乱可能还会持续一段时间。