YOGYAKARTA, INDONESIA — Dozens of teenagers who had just finished a Planned Parenthood training session met with a local official in this provincial capital and questioned him about the lack of sex education in their schools.
印度尼西亚日惹市——一名当地官员在这一省级特区的首府会见了数十名刚刚上完“计划生育”(Planned Parenthood)培训课的青少年，并被问及为什么他们的学校缺少性教育。
One student held up a poster that read, “We only live once, why marry early?” referring to a common situation in which young couples are forced to wed because of unwanted pregnancies.
一名学生举着一张写有“我们只活一次，为什么要早结婚？”的海报，意指当地的一种普遍现象，即年轻人因为意外怀孕而被迫结婚。
Sumarsono, head of reproductive health at the women’s and social empowerment agency in Yogyakarta, responded that there were already too many subjects in school.
日惹妇女和社会赋权机构生殖健康部门的负责人苏玛索诺(Sumarsono)回应说，学校的课程早已超负荷了。
“Due to the limitations in the curriculum, our effort now is to make sex education an extracurricular activity,” he said.
“受总课程的限制，我们现在努力要做的就是把性教育列为一项课外活动。”他说。
The meeting was part of a larger effort to push for legislation that would make sex education a mandatory part of Indonesia’s national curriculum. Yogyakarta, a university town known for its vibrant student and cultural life, has been at the forefront of Indonesia’s sexual education revolution.
这次会见是推动立法、使性教育成为印尼国家课程必修科目的一次重大努力。日惹是一座大学城，以丰富的学生和文化生活而闻名，一直以来都是印尼性教育革命的排头兵。
“We’re trying to ensure information reaches a broader audience,” said Andreas Nugahita, 13, who attended the meeting. “The more people understand, the more they can take responsibility for their own sexual behavior. That could change teenagers’ attitudes toward sex all across Indonesia.”
“我们要确保让更多的人获得这些信息，”参加会见的13岁学生安德里亚斯·努加希塔(Andreas Nugahita)说：“人们了解的越多，他们对自己的性行为就会越负责。这将会改变印尼各地青少年对性的态度。”
Andreas is one of hundreds of students who have been trained as peer educators by Planned Parenthood in Yogyakarta, a province with one of the country’s most progressive reproductive rights communities. The hope is that they will pass along information about H.I.V./AIDS, contraception and sexual orientation to their classmates, most of whom learn about sex through the Internet.
安德里亚斯是日惹计划生育培训班培训的数百名将出任同辈小教育者的学生之一。作为省一级的地方特区，日惹是该国在生殖权利方面最进步的社区之一。培训项目希望他们能够将有关艾滋病毒/艾滋病、避孕和性取向等方面的信息传递给他们的同学。在印尼，青少年大多通过网络获取性知识。
“Here, sex is considered taboo, and as a result talk about sex is filled with myths,” said Mariana Amiruddin, executive director of Jurnal Perempuan, or Women’s Journal.
“在这里，性被认为是一种禁忌，结果就是性被披上了神秘色彩。”《妇女杂志》(Jurnal Perempuan)执行理事玛丽亚娜·阿米鲁汀(Mariana Amiruddin)说。
Jurnal Perempuan is one of three private organizations forming the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Task Force, which has drafted a sex education curriculum that is to be tested in the coming months. Selected schools in 10 districts across Indonesia’s vast archipelago will be part of the project.
《妇女杂志》是组成性与生殖健康及权利工作小组(Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Task Force)的三家民间组织之一。该小组已经草拟了一份性教育课程，并会在接下来的几个月里试行，其所挑选学校分布在印尼这个庞大群岛国家的10个行政区。
“People need to know that the lack of knowledge is really bringing youth down,” said Dyana Savina Hutadjulu, a program officer for sexual and reproductive rights at Hivos, a global development agency helping to coordinate the effort. “We have this conservative point of view because, for generations, sex has been seen as a bad thing.”
“人们得知道，知识的缺乏真的会让年轻人堕落，”该活动的协调组织、全球发展机构Hivos的性与生殖权利项目官员狄亚娜·萨维那·胡塔朱鲁(Dyana Savina Hutadjulu)说。“我们之所以会持这样一种保守的观点，原因就在于世世代代以来，性一直被视为是坏东西。”
Ms. Hutadjulu said the effort to make sex education mandatory was an uphill battle.
胡塔朱鲁女士表示，把性教育列为必修科目将是一个极其艰巨的任务。
Sex education advocates were initially encouraged when Dr. Nafsiah Mboi, a physician who has promoted youth outreach and condom use, was appointed as Indonesia’s health minister in June.
致力于推广青少年发展协助与安全套使用的纳弗西亚·姆博伊(Nafsiah Mboi)医生在去年6月被任命为印尼卫生部长，而这也让性教育的支持者初受鼓励。
According to a 2011 survey by the Ministry of Health, only 20 percent of Indonesians aged 15 to 24 had comprehensive knowledge of H.I.V., a figure that Dr. Nafsiah said required a dramatic improvement.
据卫生部2011年开展的一项调查显示，在15岁～24岁的印尼青少年中，仅有20%掌握有全面的艾滋病毒知识。对此，纳弗西亚医生表示，这一比例必须大幅提升。
“I believe in reaching out to youth — I do believe they have the right to information,” she said in an interview after a media briefing by the U.N. AIDS agency in October. Dr. Nafsiah, however, stepped back from her support for sex education after her campaign to promote condom use among groups at risk of contracting H.I.V. provoked a public backlash last year.
“我认为必须将触角伸向青少年——我认为他们有权利获得相关信息。”她在联合国艾滋病规划署(U.N. AIDS)10月举行的一次新闻吹风会后接受采访时说。去年，她发起了一项运动，呼吁有感染艾滋病毒风险的群体使用安全套，但激起了公众的反对；之后，她撤回了对性教育的支持。
This back-and-forth is indicative of the wider effort to promote sex education. In Indonesia, many conservative officials feel that sexual topics are too sensitive to be discussed publicly and oppose mandatory sex education. Groups like the Indonesian Council of Ulema are also influential in the majority-Muslim country.
这种反复意味着性教育的推广需要付出更大努力。在印尼，很多保守派官员认为性话题过于敏感而不适于公开讨论，并反对将性教育作为必修科目。在这个穆斯林人口占多数的国家，印度尼西亚乌理玛委员会(Indonesian Council of Ulema)等团体也具有影响力。
“Students don’t need to be taught about sexuality — they can do that on their own,” Ma’ruf Amin, chairman of the Indonesian Council of Ulema, said in an interview last year. “What they need to know is about limitations, so they will know not to have sex before marriage.”
“学生没有必要接受性教育——他们可以自学，”印度尼西亚乌理玛委员会主席马鲁夫·阿明(Ma’ruf Amin)说：“他们需要知道的是各种限制规定，这样他们就会知道婚前不该发生性行为。”
Maesur Zaky, director of Planned Parenthood in Yogyakarta, said the mayor of Kulon Progo was pushing for sex education to be compulsory, which would make it the first district in Indonesia to do so. The mayor had backed a decree to allow schools to integrate sex education in the curriculum, but had run into resistance from the local department of education.
日惹计划生育项目主任马苏尔·扎基(Maesur Zaky)表示，库隆普罗戈市市长正努力推动将性教育列入必修课程；若获成功，那么该市将会成为印尼首个强制推行性教育的行政区。对于一项允许学校将性教育纳入课程的法令，市长已经给予了支持，但它遭到了当地教育部门的反对。
“There must be a better understanding about reproductive health,” said the mayor, Hastro Wardoyo. “It would be better if it became a part of the curriculum, but what’s important is that the substance is taught to the students.”
“对于生殖健康，人们必须要有更好的了解，”市长哈斯特罗·瓦尔多约(Hastro Wardoyo)说：“若成为课程的一部分，那自然更好，但重要的是要把知识传授给学生。”
Sri Mulatsih, head of the local department of education, said the curriculum had to be tested first. “We dare not launch the program without making sure it’s suitable. That would be dangerous,” she said.
当地教育部门的负责人斯里·穆拉提希(Sri Mulatsih)表示，这个课程必须先进行试点。“在无法确定它是否适合之前，我们不敢贸然推出，因为这样做很危险，”她说。
“It’s a tricky issue,” said Mr. Zaky, who explained that officials did not want to be seen as promoting promiscuity by advocating protected sex among youths. “They don’t want to be judged as immoral.”
 “这是一个棘手的问题，”扎基表示，并解释说若官员倡导青少年采取安全性行为，那会被视作是鼓励滥交：“他们不想被打上不道德的标签。”他说。
Still, advocates are making some headway in getting sex education into schools.
尽管如此，在推动将性教育纳入学校课程这一问题上，支持者还是取得了一些进展。
Planned Parenthood in Yogyakarta has been providing sex education since 2008. More than 50 schools in Yogyakarta Province have agreed to start using the organization’s curriculum, which includes lessons about contraception and sexually transmitted diseases. The Yogyakarta curriculum has been used a loose model for the proposed national one.
日惹计划生育组织自2008年就开始提供性教育。在省级行政区日惹，有超过50所学校已同意开始使用该组织的课程，而这其中就包括有关避孕和性传播疾病的内容。为向全国推广，日惹课程采取了一种比较宽松的模式。
Last year, Planned Parenthood in Yogyakarta started holding workshops to help parents discuss protected sex with their children.
去年，日惹计划生育组织开始举行讲习班，教导父母如何同孩子讨论有关安全性行为的问题。
“We don’t talk about this with our parents,” said Farah Suhailah, 15, a Planned Parenthood peer educator. “And if teachers talk about it, they feel uncomfortable.”
“我们不会同父母讨论这个话题，”计划生育培训班的同辈小教育者、15岁的法拉·苏哈伊拉(Farah Suhailah)说：“而如果老师讨论这个，那他们会感到不舒服。”
Reproductive rights advocates warn that low awareness about sex and sexuality is fueling a rise in cases of H.I.V., unwanted pregnancy, early marriage and unsafe abortions.
生殖权利支持者警告说，对性和性行为缺乏认识，会导致感染艾滋病毒、意外怀孕、早婚和不安全流产案例的增加。
“The way we convince teachers to be brave and sensitive is by showing them the facts,” Mr. Zaky said.
“我们要让老师变得勇敢和敏锐起来，而说服他们的方式就是用事实说话。”扎基先生说。
A study last year by the Ministry of Health found that 42 percent of patients with H.I.V./AIDS in Indonesia were aged 20 to 29. A survey commissioned by international health organizations in 2011 for World Contraception Day showed that nearly half of Indonesians surveyed had a close friend or family member who had an unplanned pregnancy in recent years, more than Thailand, India or China.
卫生部去年开展的一项研究发现，印尼感染艾滋病毒/艾滋病的患者，有42%年龄介于20岁～29岁之间。国际上的卫生组织曾在2011年的世界避孕日(World Contraception Day)委托进行过一项调查；结果显示，近半印尼受访者表示他们的好友或家人在最近几年出现过意外怀孕，这一比例高于泰国、印度或中国。
Michelle Bachelet, executive director of U.N. Women, who visited Jakarta in December to attend meetings about women’s rights, said at the time, “If we see the facts, we see that young people are starting their sexual life very young, with no information, and making bad choices.”
联合国妇女署(U.N. Women)执行主任米歇尔·巴切莱特(Michelle Bachelet)去年12月参加了在雅加达召开的妇女权利大会，并表示：“从相关数据来看，年轻人很早就有了性行为，他们缺乏相关的信息，并做出了糟糕的选择。”
Inna Hudaya, director of Samsara, a Yogyakarta-based organization that provides counseling and advice, mostly to girls and women, about safer sex and abortion, said talking about unwanted pregnancy opened the door to discussions of other issues.
萨姆萨拉(Samsara)——位于日惹，是一家主要为女性提供有关安全性行为和流产咨询及建议的组织——的负责人英娜·胡达雅(Inna Hudaya)表示，谈论意外怀孕为谈论其他问题开了方便之门。
“Many youths know how to have sex, but they don’t know the consequences,” she said.
“很多年轻人知道怎样发生性行为，但他们并不知道后果是什么。”她说。
Samsara has a sexuality and reproductive health school that hosts village-level workshops where they talk about body image and teach women how to perform self-exams for breast cancer.
萨姆萨拉拥有一所性行为与生殖健康学校；他们开展村一级的讲习班，不仅谈论身体形象这类话题，而且还教妇女如何进行乳腺癌自我检查。
“Sex education is not just about biology,” said Zoya Amirin, an Indonesian sexologist who is writing a book to dispel common myths about sex. “It might teach you about reproduction, but it doesn’t teach you how to say no to premarital sex, how to tell your boyfriend or girlfriend, ‘I think I need to wait for sex until I’m ready.”’
“性教育并不仅仅与生物学有关。”印尼性学家、目前正在撰写一本有关消除常见性误区著作的佐雅·阿米林(Zoya Amirin)说，“它可能会教你生育知识，但它不会教你如何对婚前性行为说不，不会教你如何告诉你的男友或女友，‘我想我得在我准备好的时候才能发生性行为’”。