The Indians who draw crowds of adoring fans are usually tall and sultry, with washboard abs and elaborate outfits, Bollywood stars like Shah Rukh Khan — described by some as the Brad Pitt of India — or Priyanka Chopra, the bombshell actress, singer and model.
能吸引大量心怀崇拜之情的粉丝的印度人，通常都高挑、魅力四射，有着搓衣板式的腹肌，衣着精致，比如，被一些人称作印度的布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)的沙·鲁克·汗(Shah Rukh Khan)，或性感爆棚的演员、歌手、模特朴雅卡·乔普拉(Priyanka Chopra)等宝莱坞明星。
But this time it is a teetotaler and bachelor who has boasted of his 56-inch chest and wears a simple cotton shirt.
但这次却是一名滴酒不沾的单身汉。他以56英寸（约1.4米）的胸围为豪，穿着一件简单的棉布衬衫。
Narendra Modi, India’s new prime minister, will receive a rally fit for a rock star at Madison Square Garden on Sunday. His rags-to-riches story mirrors the rise of Gujarat, the Indian state that he governed and that gave him and his Bharatiya Janata Party a landslide victory in India’s general election in May. His new profile has also allowed him to return to the United States for the first time in more than two decades; the State Department had revoked his visa in 2005 over his alleged role in deadly religious riots in Gujarat three years earlier.
周日，印度新任总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)将在麦迪逊广场花园参加一场摇滚巨星级别的集会。他白手起家赢得成功的故事呼应了印度古吉拉特邦的崛起。他曾是该邦的领导人，他在那里的作为让他和他领导的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)在5月的大选中，以绝对优势获胜。新身份也让他得以在二十多年的时间里首次重回美国。2005年，因为被指三年前参与了古吉拉特邦血腥的宗教骚乱，美国国务院撤销了他的签证。
For Mr. Modi and his supporters, the visit, which includes a speech before the United Nations General Assembly and a meeting with President Obama, is also a moment to connect with members of the broad Indian diaspora in the United States, many of whom watched with embarrassment from afar as India’s economic engine sputtered and corruption scandals plagued Mr. Modi’s rivals in the Indian National Congress party, which has governed India for most of its postcolonial history.
对莫迪及其支持者而言，此次访美也是与旅居美国的广大印度人联络感情的时刻。随着印度经济陷于乏力，腐败丑闻也困扰着莫迪的对手国民大会党(Indian National Congress)，许多旅美印度人都在尴尬地从远处观望。殖民时代结束后，印度大部分时间都由国大党统治。访美期间，莫迪的行程包括在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)上发表讲话，以及与奥巴马总统会晤。
“Prime Minister Modi’s message will be refreshing — what role Indian-Americans can play promoting a relationship between two great stories,” said Dr. Bharat Barai, a longtime friend of Mr. Modi’s who helped arrange his visit.
“莫迪总理的讯息将令人耳目一新——对于推动两个大国之间的关系，印度裔美国人将扮演什么角色？”巴拉特·巴拉伊(Bharat Barai)博士说。他是莫迪的老朋友，协助安排了莫迪的此次访问。
Many Indians in the United States see Mr. Modi as India’s savior: a strong leader who has pledged to cut through red tape, stamp out corruption, revive India’s economy and restore pride.
许多在美国的印度人认为莫迪是印度的救星：一位强有力的领导人，承诺裁撤官僚程序、消除腐败、重振印度经济、恢复印度的自豪感。
Of the more than 1,700 Indians living in the United States who responded to a New York Times questionnaire, a majority expressed excitement and hope about Mr. Modi’s visit, saying they expected him to resurrect the narrative of India as a rising global power and strengthen relations between the two countries.
生活在美国的1.7万多名印度人回复了《纽约时报》的调查问卷。大部分人表达了自己对莫迪此次访美的兴奋和期盼，称希望莫迪能恢复印度作为一个崛起大国的叙事，并加强两国之间的关系。
“Modi’s trip will jump-start the process of restoring respect and admiration for Indian civilization,” wrote one respondent, Sant Gupta, 66, of Virginia.
“莫迪之行将开启恢复对印度文明的敬重和钦佩的进程，”弗吉尼亚州66岁的受访者桑特·古普塔(Sant Gupta)说。
Tapping into a level of interest they never expected, Dr. Barai and the group organizing the $1.5 million event, the Indian American Community Foundation, have mobilized more than 400 organizations and individuals. Bollywood stars offered their talents, but organizers wanted to keep the focus on Indian-Americans. The hosts will be last year’s Miss America winner, Nina Davuluri, and a PBS anchor, Hari Sreenivasan. Anjali Ranadivé, the daughter of Vivek Ranadivé, owner of the Sacramento Kings basketball team, will sing the American national anthem, while L. Subramaniam, a violinist, and Kavita Krishnamurthy, a classical singer, will perform the Indian anthem.
此事得到的关注出乎所有人意料，为了利用这一点，巴拉伊和这项耗资150万美元（约合920万元人民币）的活动的主办方印裔美国人社区基金会(Indian American Community Foundation)动员了400多个组织和个人。宝莱坞明星表示愿意来助兴，但组织者希望把重点放在印裔美国人身上。主持人将是去年“美国小姐”(Miss America)获胜者妮娜·达瓦鲁瑞(Nina Davuluri)和PBS主持人哈里·斯里尼瓦桑(Hari Sreenivasan)。萨克拉门托国王(Sacramento Kings)篮球队的老板维维克·拉纳戴夫(Vivek Ranadivé)之女安贾莉·拉纳戴夫(Anjali Ranadivé)将献唱美国国歌，而小提琴家L·萨布拉玛尼安(L. Subramaniam)将和古典歌手卡维塔·克里希纳穆尔蒂(Kavita Krishnamurthy)联手演奏印度国歌。
The prime minister’s office told Dr. Barai and the other organizers, “Just don’t have a Bollywood night there.”
总理办公室告诉巴拉伊和其他组织者，“只要别办成宝莱坞之夜就行。”
The event will include an acrobatic and laser show, a speed-painted portrait of Mr. Modi and a hologram re-creating the seminal speech of Mr. Modi’s guru, Swami Vivekananda, who became the ambassador of Hinduism to the United States when he spoke at the World’s Parliament of Religions in 1893. Mr. Modi was honoring him when he visited the United States in 1993, and Dr. Barai recalled how embarrassed Mr. Modi was by his meager possessions during that visit. “I know you only do laundry in America once a week,” Mr. Modi said. “But I only have two pairs of clothes.” Now, his shirts are a fashion symbol.
活动将包括一场杂技和激光表演、一幅莫迪的速画肖像以及莫迪的导师辨喜(Swami Vivekananda)那场有重要影响的讲话的全息重现。1893年在世界宗教会议(World’s Parliament of  Religions)上的发言，让辨喜成了印度教在美国的代表。1993年访问美国时，莫迪表达了对辨喜的崇敬。巴拉伊回想起了在那次访美期间，莫迪为自己的微薄身家感到窘迫。“我知道你们在美国一周才洗一次衣服，”莫迪说。“但我只有两套衣服。”如今他的衬衫已经成了一个时尚符号。
“It’s also milestone for us as a community,” said Anand Shah, a spokesman for the organizers.
“对我们这个群体而言，这也是一座里程碑，”组织方的发言人阿南德·沙阿(Anand Shah)说。
Only about half of the 30,000 people who applied for free tickets will get to see Mr. Modi. Free lunches will be provided around the corner for guests, though Mr. Modi himself will be observing a nine-day religious fast. A majority of those attending are from the Northeast.
在申请免费门票的3万人中，但只有大约一半能有幸见到莫迪。角落里会提供免费午餐，不过莫迪本人届时要奉行一个为期九天的宗教斋戒。活动的出席者多数来自东北部地区。
“I am die-hard fan of Narendra Modiji and have been following him since last 12 years,” a software engineer from Atlanta wrote in an email to Dr. Barai, using a term of respect for the prime minister. He said he had bought a plane ticket to New York before learning that he had not got a ticket to the Modi event.
“我是纳伦德拉·莫迪吉的铁杆粉丝，过去12年里一直在关注他，”来自亚特兰大的一位软件工程师在给巴拉伊的邮件中写道，总理姓名末尾的“吉”是一种表达敬意的方式。他说他已经买了去纽约的机票，然而才得知自己没得到这场莫迪活动的门票。
The Indian diaspora is as complex as India itself: a kaleidoscope of religious and ethnic groups, a growing middle class, skilled laborers, poor migrants and pockets of the wealthy elite. The Indian government estimates the diaspora, including immigrants and their descendants, at 20 million, with large concentrations in 22 countries.
旅居海外的印度人和印度本国一样是错综复杂的：宗教和族群五花八门，中产阶级在壮大，有技术娴熟的工人、贫穷的移民，也有寥寥几位富有的精英。据印度政府估计，海外印度人包括移民及其后代在内，大概有2000万人，主要集中在22个国家。
India has the largest number of people living outside its borders of any nation, according to the Pew Research Center. Indian-Americans make up the third-largest Asian-American group in the United States, and lead these groups in terms of income and education.
据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的统计，印度拥有规模最庞大的海外人口，印度裔美国人是美国第三大亚裔群体，在收入和教育程度上则是亚裔中的第一。
“India has defense and economic ties with other countries,” said Tanvi Madan, director of the India Project at the Brookings Institution, but the large number of Indians living in the United States “is what makes the relationship different.”
“印度和别的国家也有防务和经济联系，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)亚洲项目总监坦维·马丹(Tanvi Madan)说，但是生活在美国的印度人数量之众“让这种关系变得不一样起来。”
By the mid-1990s, the Indian community in the United States was fairly large and rich, made up of skilled migrants of the 1960s and '70s and young men seeking higher education in the mid-1980s, according to Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist at Brown University.
布朗大学(Brown University)政治学家阿舒托什·瓦什尼(Ashutosh Varshney)说，到上世纪90年代中期，美国的印度人群体已经相当庞大和富有，构成这个群体的是60、70年代的技术移民，以及80年代中期来美接受高等教育的年轻人。
“This diaspora was embarrassed about India’s poverty and economic performance,” he said. “There’s a diasporic desire to see India economically rise again, which also drives the fascination with Mr. Modi.”
“这些背井离乡的人，对印度的贫困和糟糕的经济表现感到羞耻，”他说。“他们有一种回望故国的渴望，想看到印度的经济再度崛起，莫迪热也是由这种渴望点燃的。”
After India’s economy was overhauled in the 1990s, its technology sector began to boom and it began approaching China’s double-digit growth rates. But the global downturn of 2008-09 laid bare its chronic problems, including antiquated infrastructure, wasteful spending and rising food prices.
印度经济在90年代进行了全面改革，科技领域大发展，并且开始逼近中国两位数的经济增长率。然而2008到2009年的全球滑坡暴露了印度的长期问题，包括基础设施老化、挥霍浪费以及食品价格上涨。