HONG KONG — India’s ambitions to increase its domestic military industry may have grown a little more expansive.
香港——印度一直立志要做强国内军工产业，这种雄心近来可能变得更大了一点。
On Sunday, the head of the country’s Defense Research and Development Organization told the Press Trust of India news agency that a ‘‘list of equipment,’’ including long-range missiles and the domestically developed Tejas light fighter, could be sold as exports in direct competition with countries like China.
周日，印度防务研究和开发组织（Defense Research and Development Organization，简称DRDO）负责人对新闻社印度报业托拉斯(Press Trust of India)表示，“一系列装备”，包括远程导弹和国内研发的“光辉”(Tejas)轻型战斗机，可能会出口，并与中国这样的国家开展直接竞争。
Avinash Chander, the agency’s chief, argued that India’s advantage would be in production cost. ‘‘Many times Indian weapons are a lot cheaper,’’ he told the news agency. ‘‘There are various other systems, like if you take strategic missiles, the long-range missiles that China sells to Saudi Arabia and the cost at which we produce, it would be one-third or one-fourth.’’
DRDO主管阿维纳什·詹德(Avinash Chander)认为，印度的优势在于生产成本。“在很多时候，印度的武器都会便宜很多，”他对报业托拉斯说。“有其他各种系统，比如战略导弹，中国卖给沙特阿拉伯的那种远程导弹，如果我们生产的话，成本就只有三分之一或四分之一。”
The defense agency confirmed the comments by phone on Monday.
这家防务机构周一在电话中核实了上述评论。
Whether there would be a market for India’s weaponry is unclear. A heavy importer of weapons, the country has been struggling for years to manufacture arms reliable enough for its military to use, the Times’s Gardiner Harris reported in March.
目前尚不清楚印度武器装备有没有市场。印度的武器严重依赖进口，《纽约时报》记者加迪纳·哈里斯(Gardiner Harris)今年3月报道，该国多年来一直在艰难地尝试，试图制造足够可靠的武器，供本国军队使用。
The Hindustan Aeronautics Tejas jet, in particular, took more than three decades to develop and its capabilities already lag behind those of its contemporaries, analysts say. The project suffered from poor project oversight, a lack of access to key systems and avionics technology because of embargoes, unrealistic deadlines and changing requirements, Ben Moores, a senior analyst with IHS Jane’s, said Monday.
具体来说，印度斯坦航空公司(Hindustan Aeronautics)的“光辉”喷气机花了超过30年时间研发，分析人士说，其性能已经落后于当前的竞争对手。IHS简氏(IHS Jane’s)的高级分析师本·穆尔斯(Ben Moores)表示，这款飞机的研发项目监管混乱、研发期限不切实际、开发需求也变来变去，而且由于受制于禁运，印度也无法接触关键的系统和航电技术。
It is estimated to cost $31 million per unit, compared with more than $30 million for an American-built F-16 or $29 million for a Russian MIG-29.
据估计“光辉”飞机每架成本为3100万美元（约合1.9亿元人民币），与之相对比，美国制造的F-16战斗机的成本是3000多万美元，而俄罗斯的米格-29 (MIG-29)的成本则为2900万美元。
‘‘It is not a particularly cost-effective platform relative to the capabilities on offer by similar products already in the market space,’’ Mr. Moores said. ‘‘Furthermore, the market it is trying to enter is very mature, has low growth, highly competitive and often political in a way that does not benefit India.’’
“与市场上现有的类似产品所提供的性能相比，它也不是一个性价比特别高的平台，”穆尔斯说。“况且，印度正试图进入的市场已经非常成熟，增长很低，竞争很激烈，而且时常受到政治影响，这对印度不利。”
The F-16 and MIG-29 are both tested designs that can work with a wide variety of weapons, he said.
他说，F-16和米格-29的设计都经过了验证，可以与多种多样的武器相匹配。
But potential customers might find the Tejas attractive because of its relatively simple design, Mr. Moores added.
不过穆尔斯也说，潜在客户或许会因为其设计相对简单，而认为“光辉”有吸引力。
China has two entries in that market, the JF-17, a joint effort of the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex and the Chengdu Aircraft Industry Corporation in China, and the J-10 (whose only export customer is Pakistan). The J-10 and Tejas are ‘‘on paper very similar,’’ Mr. Moores said.
中国在这个市场中推出了两款产品，一款是巴基斯坦航空综合体(Pakistan Aeronautical Complex)与中国的成都飞机工业（集团）公司联合研发的JF-17，另一款是歼-10（后者唯一的出口客户是巴基斯坦）。穆尔斯评价道，歼-10和“光辉”在“图纸上看十分相似”。
If India can compete on quality as well as cost, the payoff could be huge. Militaries across Asia are looking to build their capabilities in the face of Chinese ascendance — spending in the region is up nearly 12 percent, compared with four years ago, according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies. But given the industry’s current position, it could be an uphill battle.
如果印度既在质量上有竞争力，又在成本上有竞争力，或许能取得巨大的回报。亚洲各国军队面对中国军力的增强，都在寻求提升自身实力。国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)数据显示，与四年前相比，亚洲地区的军费开支提高了将近12%。不过，鉴于这个行业目前的状况，印度恐怕处境艰难。
‘‘You are starting to see some Indian exports, but these have been limited,’’ Mr. Moores said. ‘‘I think that the private sector is ready to step into global weapons export market, but there will need to be further reform and liberalization of the Indian procurement sector if that is going to happen in a significant manner.’’
“我们已经看到印度出口了一些产品，但很有限，”穆尔斯说。“我想私营部门已经准备好进入全球武器出口市场，不过要想让这种趋势形成规模，印度的采购部门就需要进一步改革和自由化。”