NEW DELHI — An express train plowed into a crowd of Hindu pilgrims who were crossing the tracks at a remote station in eastern India on Monday, killing dozens of people and leaving a scene of carnage.
新德里——本周一，一辆特快列车撞上一群印度教朝圣者，导致数十人死亡，现场异常血腥。事故发生之时，这些朝圣者正在印度东部的一个偏远车站横穿铁轨。
An enraged crowd dragged out the driver and began beating him, and set parts of the train on fire, sending up a pillar of thick black smoke that could be seen miles away.
激怒的人群将司机拖出列车进行殴打，并将部分车厢点燃，数里之外都可以看到直冲云霄的浓浓黑烟。
The crowd remained so furious that hours passed before firefighters and rescue workers were able to approach the site of the accident, officials said. A train sent to help the wounded was forced to halt on the tracks a mile away.
印度官员说，人群非常愤怒，以至于数小时之后，消防队员和救援人员才得以接近事故现场。前往救助伤员的列车被迫停在了一英里之外的铁轨上。
The disaster stood out even in a season of terrible accidents.
近期的恶性事故接二连三，即便如此，这起灾难还是异常引人注目。
The station in Bihar State was a remote one — inaccessible by road — and the Rajya Rani Express typically barrels through without stopping at a speed of around 50 miles an hour. Railway officials said the driver had been given clearance to pass through.
位于比哈尔邦的这个车站比较偏远，没有通公路，这列“拉吉亚拉尼快车”(Rajya Rani Express)通常会以大约50英里的时速驶过该站，不会在此停靠。铁路部门官员表示，司机当时已经收到可以通过的指令。
But Monday was the last day of a holy month in India, and hundreds of people were disembarking from two stopped passenger trains while on their way to a temple a half-mile away to offer holy water to Shiva, the Hindu god of destruction.
但是，本周一是印度一个朝圣月的最后一天。事故发生之时，数百人刚刚从两辆停靠的客运列车下车，准备前往半英里之外的一个寺庙，以圣水供奉印度教的毁灭之神湿婆。
A top official at the railway ministry, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said the driver had pulled the emergency brake when he saw people on the tracks but was unable to stop the train.
印度铁道部高级官员阿迪尔·兰詹·乔杜里(Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury)说，看到铁轨上有人，司机拉了紧急制动，但却无法让列车停下来。
“It was all quite frightening,” said Rohit Kumar, a passenger, who jumped off the train and ran for a quarter-mile to the nearest station when the crowd began to attack. “I’m standing here and watching smoke billowing out from the train. It was nightmarish. So scary.”
“这一切太可怕了，”乘客罗希特·库马尔(Rohit Kumar)说。“我站在这儿，看着火车冒出滚滚浓烟。这真是场噩梦。太恐怖了。”当人群开始攻击时，库马尔跳下火车，跑了四分之一英里（约402米），跑到了离该站最近的一个火车站。
S. K. Singh, the deputy magistrate of the Saharsa District, said 37 people were confirmed dead, including several children. India’s railway minister, Mallikarjun Kharge, said 28 had died, and noted that the pilgrims were crossing the tracks illegally. Parliamentary discussion on Monday afternoon deteriorated into a shouting match over whether the government bore responsibility.
沙哈尔沙区的副区长S·K·辛格(S. K. Singh)说，有37人确认死亡，包括几个孩子。印度铁道部长马利卡尔琼·卡尔吉(Mallikarjun Kharge)说有28人死亡，同时指出，朝圣者当时是在非法跨越铁轨。周一下午，印度议会就政府是否负有责任进行讨论，讨论恶化成了一场大吵大闹。
The chief minister of Bihar State called it “the rarest of rare tragedies.” He pledged 200,000 rupees, or around $3,180, to the victims’ families, and urged the railway ministry to do the same. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh released a statement calling for “calm in the area so that the relief and rescue operations can be carried out without any hindrance.”
比哈尔邦的首席部长称之为“少见又少见的悲剧”。他承诺向遇难者家庭支付20万印度卢比（约合1.9万元人民币），并敦促铁道部也这样做。印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)发表了一份声明，呼吁“该地区保持平静，以便救援行动可以不受障碍地进行。”
The station, Dhamara Ghat, was inaccessible by car because of the current flood season, so rescue workers had to walk more than two miles from the nearest road to reach the injured, a regional police spokesman said.
一名当地警方发言人称，因为时值汛期，汽车无法进入这个名为达马拉格特的火车站，这样一来，救援人员必须从最近的公路步行超过两英里，然后才能到达伤者所在的地方。
A series of disasters have befallen pilgrims in India this year. In June, thousands drowned when flash floods struck the northern state of Uttarakhand, and the Indian authorities evacuated more than 100,000 people. In February, dozens were killed in a train-station stampede at the Kumbh Mela, a Hindu religious festival on the banks of the Ganges and Yamuna Rivers.
今年，一系列灾难降临在印度朝圣者的身上。今年6月，洪水淹没了北部的北安恰尔邦，数以千计的人被淹死，印度政府疏散了超过10万人。今年2月的大壶节(Kumbh Mela)集会期间，有数十人在一次火车站踩踏事件中死亡。大壶节是印度教节日，在恒河和亚穆纳河河岸举行。