IDUKKI, India — Spices grown in the mist-shrouded Western Ghats here have fueled wars, fortunes and even the discovery of continents, and for thousands of years farmers harvested them in the same traditional ways. Until now.
印度伊杜基——这里的西高止山脉云雾缭绕，山上种植的香料曾引发过战争，也曾让一些人发财，甚至帮助了新大陆的发现。上千年来，农民们一直用一成不变的传统方式收获这些香料。直到如今。
Science has revealed what ancient kings and sultans never knew: Instead of improving health, spices sometimes make people very sick, so Indian government officials are quietly pushing some of the most far-reaching changes ever in the way farmers here pick, dry and thresh their rich bounty.
科学研究发现了古代君王和苏丹从来都不知道的事情：有时，香料非但不能促进健康，还会导致严重的疾病；因此，印度政府官员们正在这里悄然推行一次有史以来最深远的变革，让农民们改变采摘、晾晒和脱粒其丰富收成的方式。
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration will soon release a comprehensive analysis that pinpoints imported spices, found in just about every kitchen in the Western world, as a surprisingly potent source of salmonella poisoning.
美国食品和药品监督管理局(FDA)很快就会发布一份全面的分析报告，该报告指出，西方世界几乎每家厨房里都有的进口香料，竟然是一个导致沙门菌食物中毒的有效来源。
In a study of more than 20,000 food shipments, the food agency found that nearly 7 percent of spice lots were contaminated with salmonella, twice the average of all other imported foods. Some 15 percent of coriander and 12 percent of oregano and basil shipments were contaminated, with high contamination levels also found in sesame seeds, curry powder and cumin. Four percent of black pepper shipments were contaminated.
该机构一项对2万多批食品发货的研究发现，7%的香料发货被沙门氏菌污染，这几乎是其他进口食品中污染率平均水平的两倍。芫荽被污染的比率约为15％，牛至和罗勒发货的污染率是12%，污染率比较高的还包括芝麻、咖喱粉和孜然。4%的黑胡椒发货也受到污染。
Each year, 1.2 million people in the United States become sick from salmonella, one of the most common sources of food-borne illness. More than 23,000 are hospitalized and 450 die. Symptoms include diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps that begin 12 to 36 hours after infection and can last three to five days. Death can result when infection spreads from the intestines to the bloodstream and affects vital organs. Infants and older people are most at risk.
在美国，每年有120万人因沙门氏菌而生病，沙门氏菌是最常见的食源性疾病的来源之一。每年有2万3千人因此入院治疗，有450人丧生。症状一般在被感染的12〜36小时后出现，包括腹泻、发烧和腹部绞痛等，可持续3〜5天。如果感染从肠道扩散进入血液，影响到重要器官时，可能会致死亡。婴儿和老年人被感染的风险最大。　
Mexico and India had the highest share of contaminated spices. About 14 percent of the samples from Mexico contained salmonella, the study found, a result Mexican officials disputed.
墨西哥和印度的香料被污染的比率最高。这项研究发现，来自墨西哥的样本约有14%被沙门氏菌污染。墨西哥官员对这个数字表示怀疑。
India's exports were the second-most contaminated, at approximately 9 percent, but India ships nearly four times the amount of spices to the United States that Mexico does, so its contamination problems are particularly worrisome, officials said. Nearly one-quarter of the spices, oils and food colorings used in the United States comes from India.
印度的出口香料被污染的比率排名第二，约为9%，但从印度运送到美国的香料数量，几乎是来自墨西哥的4倍，因此官员表示，印度香料的污染问题尤为令人担忧。美国用的香料、食用油和食用色素约有四分之一来自印度。
The findings, the result of a three-year study that FDA officials have on occasion discussed publicly and recently published in the journal Food Microbiology, form an important part of the spice analysis that will be made public “soon,” agency officials said.
这些发现来自FDA的一项为期3年的研究，FDA官员偶尔在公开场合提到过该研究，其结果最近已在《食品微生物学》杂志上发表，这是该机构的香料分析报告的一个重要组成部分。FDA 官员称，该分析报告“不久之后”就会公布。
“Salmonella is a widespread problem with respect to imported spices,” Michael Taylor, deputy FDA commissioner for food, said in an interview. “We have decided that spices are one of the significant issues we need to be addressing right now.”
FDA主管食品的副局长迈克尔·泰勒(Michael Taylor)在接受采访时说，“进口食品被沙门氏菌污染是一个带有普遍性的问题。我们已作出决定，香料是我们需要立即着手解决的重大问题之一。”
Westerners are particularly vulnerable to contaminated spices because pepper and other spices are added at the table, so bacterial hitchhikers are consumed live and unharmed. Bacteria do not survive high temperatures, so contaminated spices present fewer problems when added during cooking, as is typical in the cuisine of India and most other Asian countries.
西方人对被污染的香料显得尤为脆弱，因为他们往往把胡椒和其他香料在用餐时才添加到食物里，这使得搭车的细菌不受到伤害而被活吃下去。细菌在高温条件下无法存活，所以在烹饪时添加被污染的香料很少会出问题，烹饪时添加香料是印度和其他大多数亚洲国家做菜的典型方法。
In India, the world's largest producer, consumer and exporter of spices, government officials are taking Washington's concerns seriously.
印度是世界上最大的香料生产国、消费国和出口国，该国政府官员正在认真对待华盛顿方面的担忧。
“The world wants safe spices, and we are committed to making that happen,” said Dr. A. Jayathilak, chairman of the Spices Board of India, a government agency that regulates and promotes spices.
印度香料委员会主席A.·贾亚泰雷克(A. Jayathilak)说，“世界需要安全的香料，我们承诺保证香料的安全。”该委员会是印度负责监管和推广香料的政府机构。
FDA tests found that contaminated spices tend to have many more salmonella types than is typically found on contaminated meat. The agency, which visually inspects less than 1 percent of all imported foods and performs lab tests on a tiny fraction, rejects imports with any signs of salmonella contamination because as few as 10 cells have been shown to cause serious illness.
FDA的测试表明，与受到污染的肉类相比，被污染了的香料可能含有的沙门氏菌的种类更多。该机构只对不到1%的进口食品进行目检，对更小的一部分进行实验室检测，只要食品有任何被沙门氏菌感染的迹象，就会被拒绝进口，因为有数据显示，少到10个沙门氏菌细胞的污染就能导致严重的疾病。
Illnesses caused by spices are hard to trace. When asked what might have made them sick, people rarely think to mention adding pepper to a salad. Spices sit on kitchen shelves indefinitely, so linking illnesses that can occur years apart is often impossible.
由香料引发的疾病很难追踪。当病人被问及可能是什么东西让他们生病时，很少有人会想到说曾在沙拉上加了胡椒。香料在厨房的柜橱里能放上好几年，通常不可能把相隔数年发生的疾病联系起来。
But sophisticated DNA sequencing of salmonella types is finally allowing food officials to pinpoint spices as a cause of repeated outbreaks, including one in 2010 involving black and red pepper that sickened more than 250 people in 44 states. After a 2009 outbreak linked to white pepper, an inspection found that salmonella had colonized much of the Union City, Calif., spice processing facility at the heart of the outbreak.
然而，针对各种沙门氏菌的先进DNA测序终于让主管食品安全的官员得以确认，香料是造成沙门氏菌几次发作的一个因素，包括2010年的一次与黑胡椒和红胡椒有关的发作，那次曾导致44个州中的250人生病。在2009年的一场与白胡椒有关的发作之后，检查发现，在沙门氏菌发作中心的加利福尼亚州联合市，许多香料加工设备都成了沙门氏菌的繁殖地。
On a tour through a tropical landscape teeming with pepper and cardamom farms, rubber plantations, tea estates and wild elephants, Indian spice officials showed some voluntary changes they are pushing.
在一次热带景观旅游的途中，到处能看到胡椒和小豆蔻的农场、橡胶种植园、茶园和野生大象。印度主管香料产业的官员展示了一些他们正在推进的、农民自愿采纳的变化。
The first stop was Noble Joseph's 10-acre pepper farm, about a four-hour drive from the southwestern port city of Kochi, up several thousand feet of twisting mountain roads.
第一站是诺布勒·约瑟夫(Noble Joseph)占地10英亩的胡椒种植农场，距离西南部港口城市科钦开车大约需要4个小时，最后开到前有一段数千英尺的盘山路。
Joseph's hilly farm is dominated by slim silver oaks and erythrina trees planted every 8 feet; each tree is encircled by four or five pepper vines.
约瑟夫的位于山上的农场，种满了纤细的银色橡树和刺桐树，每隔8英尺一棵，每棵树都被四五条胡椒藤蔓围绕着。
During harvest season, starting in February, 15 workers cram into a small farmhouse for nearly two months and use long, single-rail bamboo ladders to pluck the pepper seeds from the vines as high as 40 feet.
在始于2月份的收获季节，在为期大约两个月的时间里，15个工人挤住在一间小农舍里，他们借助长长的单杆竹梯，把胡椒粒从高达40英尺的藤蔓上采摘下来。
Not so long ago, pepper farmers almost universally dried the seeds on bamboo mats or dirt floors and then gathered them for manual threshing. Dirt, dung and salmonella were simply part of the harvest, so much so that in 1987 the FDA blocked shipments of black pepper from India. The ban was lifted two years later, after the Indian government began a testing program.
就在不久前，椒农几乎普遍是把胡椒粒放在竹席上或脏的地面上晾干，然后再手工将它们脱壳。灰尘、动物粪便和沙门氏菌是收成密不可分的一部分，这个问题如此严重，以至于在1987年，FDA宣布禁止从印度进口黑胡椒。两年后，印度政府启动了一个检测程序，禁令才得以解除。
Now, the Josephs boil their harvest in water to clean the kernels, speed drying and encourage a uniform color. They are then placed on tarps spread over a concrete slab with nets above to catch bird droppings. Ovens would be even more sanitary, but ovens and electricity are expensive “and sunlight is free,” Joseph said.
如今，约瑟夫一家人把收成放到水里煮一下，来清洗胡椒粒，然后快速脱水，以便形成统一的色泽。再把它们放在铺着篷布的水泥板上，上面还有个网，可以防止鸟粪落入。用烘炉会更卫生，但烘炉和电都价格昂贵，“阳光却是免费的”，约瑟夫说。
The spices board underwrites a third of the cost of concrete slabs, tarps and mechanical threshers, and since most farms are smaller than an acre, it has organized growers' cooperatives to pool facilities. Board officials recently attended FDA training seminars in Maryland.
印度香料委员会承担购置水泥板、篷布和机械脱粒机所需费用的三分之一，由于大部农场的规模都小于1英亩，该委员会组织成立了种植者合作社，以便共用设施。委员会的官员最近还参加了FDA在马里兰州举办的培训研讨会。
Salmonella can survive indefinitely on dried spices, and killing the bacterium on the craggy surface of dried peppercorns without ruining their taste is especially challenging.
沙门氏菌可以无限期地在干燥的香料上存活，如何才能在不破坏胡椒口味的同时，杀死附着在胡椒粒高低不平的表面上的细菌，尤其具有挑战性。
Government officials in India emphasized in interviews that spices slated for export are often treated to kill any bacteria. Such treatments include steam-heating, irradiation or ethylene oxide gas. But FDA inspectors have found high levels of salmonella contamination in shipments said to have received such treatments, documents show. Much of the contaminated pepper in the 2010 outbreak had been treated with steam and ethylene oxide and had been certified as tested and safe, officials said.
印度政府官员在接受采访时强调，用于出口的香料通常经过杀菌处理。处理方式包括蒸汽加热灭菌、辐射灭菌和环氧乙烷气体灭菌。但有文件显示，FDA的检察员在据称已经用这些方式处理过的运货中，发现过大量的沙门氏菌污染。FDA官员说，2010年的沙门氏菌发作所涉及的胡椒，大部分都用蒸汽或者环氧乙烷处理过。