NEW DELHI — A veteran Communist leader and critic of right-wing groups was shot along with his wife in central India on Monday morning as they were out for a stroll, the police said.
新德里——警方称，周一上午，一名资深的共产党领袖、右翼团体的批评者与妻子在印度中部外出散步时遭遇枪击。
The politician, Govind Pansare, 81, was in critical but stable condition after doctors operated to remove a bullet from his body, said Ankit Goel, a police official from Kolhapur, where Mr. Pansare lives. His wife, Uma Pansare, was less seriously wounded, Mr. Goel said.
这位政界人物名为戈文德·潘萨里(Govind Pansare)，生活在戈尔哈布尔。当地警方官员安基特·戈埃尔(Ankit Goel)称，医生给81岁的潘萨里做了手术，从其体内取出一颗子弹，他目前的情况危急但稳定。戈埃尔说，潘萨里的妻子伤势不及他严重。
It was unclear whether Mr. Pansare’s political views and speeches were the reason for the attack, Mr. Goel said.
戈埃尔称，尚不清楚潘萨里的政治观点和言论是否是其遇袭的原因。
“Whether this was politically motivated, whether any reactionaries or any other lobby was involved, we are going to explore all angles into who the culprits could be,” Mr. Goel said.
“不管此事是否出于政治动机，不管是否涉及任何反对派或任何其他游说团体，我们都将进行全面调查，找到真凶，”戈埃尔说。
Political assassinations are not uncommon in India, where the police have killed hundreds of people in recent years in staged shootouts and a top Communist leader admitted several years ago that his party had on occasion brutally eliminated its rivals. “We have shot, stabbed and beaten them to death,” the leader, M. M. Mani, said in 2012.
政治刺杀在印度并不鲜见。近年来在有预谋的枪战中，警方击毙了数百名人，而几年前，一名共产党最高领导人承认，其所在的政党偶尔会以残暴的方式消灭对手。“我们用枪杀死他们，或是把他们捅死、打死，”名为M·M·马尼(M. M. Mani)的这名领导人在2012年说。
Even the president of the governing Bharatiya Janata Party, Amit Shah, has been accused of helping to stage at least two assassinations. But despite considerable evidence against him, the accusations were recently dismissed by a special court.
就连执政党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的主席阿米特·沙阿(Amit Shah)也被控参与组织了至少两起刺杀。尽管有大量对他不利的证据，但前不久，一个特别法庭未受理对他的指控。
On Monday, Mr. Pansare’s shooting near his home was being likened to the murder in 2013 of the rationalist Dr. Narendra Dabholkar in nearby Pune. Dr. Dabholkar’s life mission had been to unmask religious charlatans. He was gunned down as he walked on a bridge near where he lived.
周一，潘萨里在自家附近遭到枪击一事，被人与2013年理性主义者纳伦德拉·达博尔卡(Dr. Narendra Dabholkar)在浦那附近被谋杀一事联系了起来。达博尔卡毕其一生致力于揭开宗教骗子的假面具。他在自己住所附近的一座桥上行走时遭到枪击。
B. G. Kolsepatil, a friend of Mr. Pansare’s for 40 years and a former Bombay High Court judge, said in a telephone interview that he was on his way to meet Mr. Pansare to discuss a speech Mr. Pansare was about to give when the attack occurred.
潘萨里40多年的朋友、前孟买高等法院(Bombay High Court)法官B·G·哥尔塞巴迪尔(B. G. Kolsepatil)在电话采访中说，袭击发生时，他正在去会见潘萨里的路上，他们准备谈论潘萨里即将发表的一次演讲。
“We were to thrash out details of his speech, which would have, yet again, spoken against Brahminism and Hindutva forces in the state and country,” Mr. Kolsepatil said, referring to right-wing forces against whom Mr. Pansare has spent his life agitating. “I am very sure it is one from the reactionary groups in the state who shot him. They cannot fight us in thought. They only know how to kill.”
“我们正准备研究他的演讲细节，这次演讲将再次批判婆罗门和“印度性”(Hindutva)思想对邦与国家的影响，”哥尔塞巴迪尔说。这里指的是潘萨里用毕生时间反对的右翼势力。“我十分肯定，枪杀他的是一个来自邦反动集团的人。他们无法在思想上战胜我们。他们只知道如何杀戮。”