AT the heart of the fracas surrounding the arrest of an Indian diplomat in New York who promised to pay her housekeeper $9.75 per hour, in compliance with United States labor rules, but instead paid her $3.31 per hour, is India’s dirty secret: One segment of the Indian population routinely exploits another, and the country’s labor laws allow gross mistreatment of domestic workers.
一名印度外交官没有按照美国的劳动法规为女佣支付她所承诺的每小时9.75美元（约合59元人民币）的工资，而是仅仅支付了3.31美元，并因此在纽约被捕。这场风波的核心是印度一个肮脏的秘密：印度人口中的一个群体习以为常地剥削着另一个群体，而这个国家的劳动法规也允许人们以极其恶劣的方式对待家政工作者。
India is furious that the diplomat, Devyani Khobragade, was strip-searched and kept in a cell in New York with criminals. Retaliation from the newly assertive but otherwise bureaucracy-ridden nation was swift. American diplomats were stripped of identity cards granting them diplomatic benefits, and security barriers surrounding the American Embassy in New Delhi were hauled away. A former finance minister suggested that India respond by arresting same-sex partners of American diplomats, since the Indian Supreme Court recently upheld a section of a Colonial-era law that criminalizes homosexuality.
对于外交官德芙雅尼·霍布拉加德(Devyani Khobragade)被脱衣搜身、并与犯罪分子关在纽约的小牢房一事，印度感到怒不可遏。尽管印度国内仍然存在着官僚主义的种种弊病，但如今也越来越强硬，于是很快实施了报复。美国驻印度的外交官被剥夺了赋予他们外交特权的身份证件，新德里的美国大使馆外的安全屏障被撤走。一名前财政部长暗示说，作为回应，印度应该逮捕美国外交官的同性伴侣，因为印度最高法院最近支持了一部殖民地时期法律中的款项，禁止同性恋行为。
Notwithstanding legitimate Indian concerns about whether American marshals used correct protocol in the way they treated a diplomat, the truth is that India is party to an exploitative system that needs to be scrutinized.
尽管印度人有理由质疑美国的执法人员对待这名外交官的方式是否合乎外交礼节，但实际上，印度实行的剥削体制需要受到苛刻的审视。
I grew up in a middle-class household in India in the ’80s; my parents were schoolteachers, and our lifestyle was not lavish by any means. I received new clothes once a year; I don’t recall ever going to a restaurant; our family couldn’t afford a car, so we used a scooter. But we always had a live-in housekeeper who cooked and washed our clothes, while a man came by every other day to sweep and mop the floors.
我上世纪80年代成长在印度的一个中产家庭；我的父母是学校老师，我们的生活方式无论如何都算不上奢侈。我一年会买一次新衣服；记忆中从未去过餐馆；我家买不起汽车，因此买了一个小轮摩托车。但是我们一直有一个驻家女佣，她负责给我们做饭洗衣，还有一名男佣隔天来帮我们扫地擦地。
This sort of arrangement is typical of middle-class life in India. (The wealthy have multiple servants: drivers, security guards, babysitters for their kids, cooks, and household maids who wash dishes and sweep floors.) My parents were not unkind people, and my mother paid our housekeeper above the market rate, but our family, too, was part of the unfair system that pays servants a fraction of living wages. Even liberal Indians who voice concern about human rights in other contexts often don’t see this exploitation for what it really is. I have no doubt that if I hadn’t come to the United States in my 20s, I, too, would have hired a maid whom I would have paid standard Indian wages, which by any objective standards are ridiculously low.
这种情况在印度中产阶级中很普遍。（富人的家里有各种佣人：司机、保安、照顾孩子的保姆、厨师、洗碗和擦地的女佣。）我的父母都不是凉薄的人，我母亲给女佣的工资要高于市场价格，但我的家庭也是这个不公平制度的一部分，这个制度给服务人员的工资根本不足以维持生活。即使是在其他场合表达过人权担忧的印度自由派，经常也看不到这种剥削的真相。我毫不怀疑，如果不是20多岁时来到了美国，我也会雇佣一名女佣，付给她标准的印度工资，虽然从客观的标准来看，这些标准工资低得离谱。
Perhaps it’s impossible for mind-sets to change without a long drawn-out series of events. In my case, moving to a country where labor laws exist and are enforced, combined with the perception that detachment facilitates, allowed me to recalibrate my attitude.
也许，不经历很长时间和许多事情，人们的观念就没法改变。就我来说，由于迁徙到了一个有劳动法且得到执行的国家，加上置身事外赋予我的洞察力，我得以重新矫正自己的态度。
In urban India, revolution of any kind in favor of the rights of the underclass has been largely absent. The feudal mind-set of otherwise educated people and their lack of qualms about underpaying the poor and disadvantaged are alive and well.
在印度的城市地区，任何倾向于底层人民权利的革命都基本不存在。那些受过教育的人们在这个方面却有着陈腐的观念，对于以低薪支付那些社会地位低下的穷人缺少愧疚，这样的思想依然十分活跃。
It is often said that class has become the new caste in India, and this view is borne out in this case. If caste still ruled, Ms. Khobragade, the diplomat, would not have been considered fit to shake hands with her upper-caste colleagues, for she is from a dalit (traditionally considered untouchable) family. However, according to Indian public opinion now, her status as a middle-class person seems to afford her the right to pay her housekeeper wages that are below legal and living wage levels in America.
人们常常说，阶级已经成了印度的新种姓，而这个案子恰恰证明了这一观点。如果种姓制度依然统治着印度，那么外交官霍布拉加德与她高种姓的同事握手，就会被认为是不合适的，因为她来自“达利特”(dalit)种姓，传统上属于贱民。然而，如今的印度舆论却认为，她的中产阶级身份，似乎使她有权以低于美国法定最低标准的工资支付她的佣人。
I can only hope that the Khobragade case will make Indians look inward and see that, feelings of patriotic fervor aside, India has a serious problem.
我只能希望，霍布拉加德一案会让印度人能够自省，抛开爱国热情，看清楚印度的确存在一个严重的问题。
While the country took a step in the right direction and included domestic workers in a new law prohibiting sexual harassment in the workplace in 2013, India’s national minimum-wage law does not cover domestic workers. On average, servants in cities earn only about $64 to $161 per month, which forces them to live hand-to-mouth, in illegally built shantytowns, often without electricity and running water.
虽然印度向着正确的方向迈进了一步，在2013年的一项禁止工作场所性骚扰的新法律中，包括了家政服务人员，但印度的全国最低工资法却没有覆盖家政人员。平均算来，城市里的佣人每月的收入仅有64到161美元，靠着这些钱他们只能勉强度日，住在非法建造的贫民窟里，常常没有供电和自来水。
Last week, I watched with bewilderment as India’s most vociferous talk show host, Arnab Goswami, repeatedly asked his guests if they expected an Indian diplomat who is paid $4,180 a month to pay her domestic servant $4,500 a month. Meanwhile an American guest, Lisa Curtis, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, tried to make a point: “If somebody cannot afford to have domestic help, then they don’t have domestic help.” Had the other guests not been seething with anger and shouting simultaneously, they would have perhaps heard a simple message: Having a servant you cannot pay a decent wage cannot be a birthright.
上周，我看了印度最尖锐的脱口秀主持人阿纳·戈斯瓦米(Arnab Goswami)的一档节目，十分不解。他在节目里一再追问在场的嘉宾，他们是否指望一位每月赚4180美元的印度外交官，以每月4500美元的工资支付她的佣人。同时，一位美国嘉宾、传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)高级研究员莉萨·柯蒂斯(Lisa Curtis)努力想指出一点：“如果你雇不起佣人，那么就不要雇。”如果当时其他嘉宾不是满腔怒火，只顾着大喊大叫，他们或许已经听明白了一个非常简单的讯息：雇一个你付不起合理工资的佣人，不应该是与生俱来的权利。