NEW DELHI — Of all the pictorial charts used in Indian schools as teaching aids, it was the Ideal Boy that haunted my generation. The Ideal Boy woke up and brushed his teeth with care, saluted his parents, prayed, had his meals on time, helped others, performed sundry duties and, more puzzling, took “lost children to police post.”
新德里——印度学校里用来辅助教学的所有挂图中，在我这一代人心中挥之不去的一幅就是《理想男孩》(Ideal Boy)。这个理想的男孩醒来后会认真刷牙、问候父母、祷告、按时吃饭、助人为乐、履行杂七杂八的义务，还有更令人困惑的：“把迷路的孩子送到警察局”。
The Ideal Boy embodied certain Indian values, and though these seemed innocuous enough, there was something about his smudgy features, identifiably mainstream Hindu and North Indian, and his expression of saintly smugness that scarred my child brain. Now that I am an adult, and that the right-wing has come back to power in India, I understand why I was so queasy back then. The feeling was a foreboding that otherwise unobjectionable traditional Indian values — respect for one’s family, obedience to elders, modesty for women — might be invoked to reject or repress certain groups.
《理想男孩》代表了印度的某些价值观，尽管看起来足够纯良，但是其中一些模糊的特征，体现着印度教及印度北部的主流思想，其中表达的圣人般的沾沾自喜给我童年的头脑留下了创伤。现在我已经是成年人，而右翼再次在印度掌权，我理解了当时为什么那么反感。这种感觉是一种预感——在其他方面并不会招致反感的印度传统文化价值观，如尊重家人、顺从长者、女性要谦卑，可以拿来排斥或压制特定的群体。
The new Bharatiya Janata Party government seems determined to look to Asia for political and cultural inspiration. Prime Minister Narendra Modi projects an image of himself as an authority — even an authoritarian — figure, in keeping with the regional ideal of a strong leader. All the while he has been careful to reach out to his counterparts. His first scheduled trips abroad will be to Bhutan and then Japan: and the Chinese foreign minister has just ended a visit to India.
新上台的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)政府似乎下定决心要从亚洲寻求政治和文化启示。总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)给自己打造出了一幅权威人物，甚至威权统治者的形象，这与亚洲期待强人的理想相一致。与此同时，他也一直小心地与其他亚洲领导人接触。他最先计划的出国访问是不丹和日本，而中国外长刚刚结束了印度之行。
His approach isn’t just a personal predilection; it also reflects a wider shift within India: the search, especially among right-wing politicians and intellectuals, for a common set of Asian cultural norms that would help them create and strengthen a new sense of Indian identity.
他的立场不只是一种个人倾向，还反映了印度国内一种更广泛的转变：追寻亚洲共有的文化规范，从而帮助人们建立和增强一种新的印度认同感，这种尝试在右翼的政治人物和知识分子中间尤其流行。
In the 1990s, Lee Kuan Yew, the former prime minister of Singapore, triggered a fierce debate by drawing a line between Western freedoms and human rights, on the one hand, and on the other, an Asian vision of living in harmony, which might place individual rights in abeyance for the good of the community. In India, this “Asian values” debate found its way into discussions on development, among other things, notably in arguments trying to discredit environmentalists for being too heavily influenced by the West.
上世纪90年代，新加坡前总理李光耀(Lee Kuan Yew)将西方的自由、人权与亚洲和谐生活的观念彻底分开——为了社区的利益，后者可能会压制个人权利。李光耀的这种区分当时激起了猛烈的辩论。在印度，这种“亚洲价值观”的辩论成为了发展议题的一部分，并在其他诸多话题的讨论中找到了出口，尤其是那些贬低环境保护主义者，称他们受到的西方影响过重的论调。
The problems with that position are the same now as they were then. As the economist Amartya Sen put it in 1997, “What can we take to be the values of so vast a region, with such diversity?” As a result, invoking an Indian, or Asian, identity in such a plural country, or region, often becomes an excuse for the majority to speak over many minorities.
现在这种观点的问题与当时是相同的。就像经济学家阿玛蒂亚·森(Amartya Sen)在1997年所说的那样，“对于如此广阔、如此多样化的一片区域，我们该把什么当成它的价值观呢？”因此，在这样一个多元化的国家，大谈印度身份认同，以及在这样一个多元化的地区，大谈亚洲身份认同，常常成为多数群体贬抑众多少数群体的借口。
And why assume, Mr. Sen also argued, that “Western notions” were “somehow alien to Asia”? Yet just a couple of weeks ago, a report by the Indian government’s Intelligence Bureau on the influence of NGOs was leaked to the media. One of its conclusions was that many local NGOs — some funded by “donors based in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavian countries” — had been “using people-centric issues” to stall development projects. Another was that some of their work served “as tools for the strategic foreign policy interests” of Western governments.
森还谈到，为什么要假定“西方观念，因为某种原因，在亚洲是格格不入的”？而就在几周前，印度政府情报局关于非政府组织(NGO)影响的一份报告泄露给了媒体。报告中得出的一项结论是，许多当地NGO一直在利用“以人为中心的议题”阻挠发展项目，其中一些NGO是“由位于美国、英国、德国、荷兰和斯堪的纳维亚国家的捐款人”资助的。另一项结论是，这些NGO的某些工作为西方国家政府的“战略性外交利益充当了工具”。
This stiff-collared bureaucrat-speak isn’t just a peculiarity of the Intelligence Bureau: It reveals a suspicion of the West — and of a human rights culture seen to have been forged in the West — that is widespread in India, among politicians and businessmen and, indeed, many ordinary Indians.
这种僵硬的官僚话语不只是情报部门所特有的，它揭示了对西方的怀疑，也显示了对被认为是西方创造的人权文化的怀疑。这种心态在印度流传甚广，持有者包括政治人物、商人，当然也包括很多普通的印度人。
Every major case of rape recently, for example, has prompted a belligerent reaction against the victim, often couched in terms that pit India against the West. On June 7, a leading ideologue of the extreme right-wing organization Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, S. Gurumurthy, raised a minor storm of protest when he tweeted: “If Indian women westernize rapes will rise by 50/60 times to reach the levels of West, But there will be no media report No UN intervention.” Among his next few tweets was this definition of Westernization: “Unbridled individualism which destroys relations and families.”
例如，最近发生的每一起强奸案中，受害者都遭遇了恶毒的反应，其论调的表述常常是让印度与西方对立起来。极右翼团体民族志工组织(Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)一名主要的意识形态代表，S·古鲁穆尔迪(S. Gurumurthy)在Twitter上发表的言论就掀起了一场小规模的抗议风波。他写道：“如果印度女性都西化，强奸案就会增加五六十倍，达到西方的水平。可是那样媒体就不会报道，联合国也不会干预了。”接下来的几则发言对“西化”给出了如下定义：“毫无节制的个人主义，破坏了人际关系，毁坏了家庭。”
These days, the purportedly shady influence of the West is invoked not only to explain why women are victims of sexual violence, but also why Indian culture is in danger, artists should be censored or anyone who questions the costs of development is “anti-national.” In other words, the return of the Asian values debate in India has already become an excuse to assault civil and political rights.
如今，据说是居心叵测的西方影响，不仅用来解释女性为什么成了性暴力的受害者，也被人拿来解释为什么印度文化面临着危险、为什么应当对艺术家实行审查，以及为什么对发展的代价提出质疑就是“反民族”。换句话说，印度展开的回归亚洲价值观的辩论，已经成为了侵袭公民权利和政治权利的借口。