NEW DELHI — A woman was raped late Friday by a driver for Uber, the hail-a-ride service, who diverted from the intended route and switched off his cellphone so that he was untraceable during the ride, police officials in New Delhi said.
新德里——新德里的警察表示，周五夜间，一名女子遭Uber司机强奸。Uber是一个用车服务公司。这名司机从预定路线改道，并关掉了手机，所以无法在行驶过程中对他进行追踪。
The authorities arrested the accused driver, identified as Shiv Kumar Yadav, 32, on Sunday evening in his native city, around 90 miles southeast of New Delhi. Officials intend to bring civil or criminal charges against the ride-sharing service, said Madhur Verma, the deputy commissioner of the police for the northern district of New Delhi.
现已确定，这名司机是32岁的希夫·库马尔·亚达夫(Shiv Kumar Yadav)。周日晚间，官方在他家乡所在的城市将其逮捕，这里位于新德里东南方向约90英里（约合145公里）。新德里北部地区的警察局副局长马德胡尔·维尔马(Madhur Verma)表示，官方打算对这个搭车服务公司提起民事或刑事指控。
The woman, 26, who works at a finance company, was returning from a dinner engagement and used the mobile app for Uber to hail a car to drive her home to Gurgaon, outside New Delhi, Mr. Verma said. The rape case was reported to the police about 1:25 a.m. on Saturday. Mr. Verma said the woman had been physically examined and showed signs of a “fierce sexual assault and rape.”
维尔马说，遭强奸的女子今年26岁，在一家金融公司工作。当时，她刚刚结束一个晚餐约会，然后用Uber的移动应用叫了一辆车送她回家，她家位于新德里之外的古尔冈。周六凌晨1点25分，警方接到报案。维尔马称，该女子已接受身体检查，结果显示，她遭到了“猛烈的性侵犯和强奸”。
The police in Delhi said Mr. Yadav, who migrated to the capital from the neighboring state of Uttar Pradesh, lived in a rented one-room house and had no criminal history.
德里警方表示，亚达夫是从旁边的北方邦搬来新德里的，他住在一间租来的一居室里，没有犯罪记录。
In a public statement, Uber said it had suspended the driver’s account.
Uber在公开声明中表示，它已暂时关闭了亚达夫的账户。
“Our thoughts are with the victim of this terrible crime, and we are working with the police as they investigate. We will assist them in any way we can,” said the statement, which was posted on Uber’s blog.
发布在Uber博客上的声明称，“我们的心与这个可怕罪行的受害者在一起，我们正在配合警方调查。我们将竭尽所能地为他们提供协助。”
Mr. Verma said Uber could face civil or criminal charges.
维尔马表示，Uber可能面临着民事或刑事指控。
Evelyn Tay, a spokeswoman for the company, said that in India, Uber works “with licensed driver-partners to provide a safe transportation option, with layers of safeguards such as driver and vehicle information” to ensure “accountability and traceability of all trips that occur on the Uber platform.”
该公司女发言人埃韦林·塔伊(Evelyn Tay)称，在印度，“为了给乘客提供一种安全的交通选择”，Uber的合作伙伴“都是获得许可的司机，而且还拥有司机或车辆信息等多层保护措施”，以保证“Uber平台上所有行程的可靠性和可追踪性”。