In the Oscar-nominated 2013 documentary “The Act of Killing” and now in a companion film, “The Look of Silence,” an especially chilling moment comes during the closing credits: In lieu of names, dozens of crew members are listed only as “anonymous.”
在获得2013年奥斯卡最佳纪录片提名的《杀戮演绎》(The Act of Killing)及其最新续作《沉默之像》(The Look of Silence)里，片尾字幕出现时都有这样一个格外令人不寒而栗的时刻：几十位剧组工作人员没有名字，以“匿名”代替。
The first film showed perpetrators of Indonesia’s massacres, which began in 1965 and left hundreds of thousands dead, not only proudly re-enacting the gruesome killings but also living with impunity and enjoying power, even fame. “The Look of Silence,” opening on Friday in New York, offers a glimpse into the agony and discrimination borne by the victims’ kin by following a gentle optician, Adi Rukun, whose brother was killed in that purge, as he quietly confronts the killers and their leaders.
《杀戮演绎》展示了印度尼西亚大屠杀的行凶者，这场大屠杀自1965年开始，有数以十万计的人遇难。在镜头面前，这些行凶者骄傲地重新演示了残忍的杀人过程，他们从未遭到惩罚，甚至享有权力和声望。《沉默之像》于周五（7月10日——编者注）在纽约上映，片中主角是温和的眼镜师阿迪·拉昆(Adi Rukun)，他的兄弟在那场大清洗中遇害。影片拍出他与杀戮者和他们的领袖安静地对峙，展现了受害者的亲人所承受的痛苦和不公待遇。
The filmmaker Joshua Oppenheimer had planned to gather stories from victims’ families for a documentary more than a decade ago, but less than a month into the interviews, his subjects received threats. Instead, Mr. Oppenheimer made “The Act of Killing,” and, anticipating repercussions, shot “The Look of Silence” before the first film was released. He then left Indonesia, and, upon advice from human rights experts, has no plans to return. Eleven years ago, a prominent Indonesian human rights activist was fatally poisoned, and abuses continue.
导演约书亚·奥本海默(Joshua Oppenheimer)从十几年前就筹划在遇害者的家人中收集故事，拍成一部纪录片，但开始采访不到一个月之后，受访者们纷纷受到威胁。于是奥本海默转而拍了《杀戮演绎》，并且出于安全考虑，在该片发行前完成了《沉默之像》的拍摄。之后他离开印度尼西亚，并且听取人权专家的建议，不再回到这里。11年前，一位著名的印度尼西亚人权活动分子惨遭毒杀，这些暴行还在继续。
All of which raises questions about whether Mr. Rukun, his family and the films’ dozens of anonymous crew members, all Indonesians still living in their homeland, remain safe.
拉昆及其家人，乃至两部影片中匿名工作人员及他们的数十位家人都是印度尼西亚人，仍然居住在自己的祖国，他们的安全很成问题。
“We tried to get a picture of what kind of danger or threat we might have to face,” said a crew member who anonymously shares directing credits on both films. “It ends up in lots of ‘we don’t know.’ It is not clear whether we face a danger or not. It is more worrying.”
“我们试着弄清自己有可能面对什么样的危险或威胁，”一位参与执导了两部影片的匿名工作人员说，“最后得到的回答是一大堆‘我们也不知道。’我们不知道自己是否会面临危险。更多的是担心。”
The crew member was speaking through Skype, the video disabled, from the home he shares with his family, Indonesia’s most populous island. He still takes precautions to shield his identity. He never ventures to North Sumatra, 1,000 miles away, where both documentaries were filmed, and steers clear of screenings and in-person interviews as well as any place where the paramilitary might surface.
这位工作人员是在家中通过Skype接受采访的，视频聊天不能使用，他与家人住在印度尼西亚人口最多的岛上。他仍然十分警惕，力图隐瞒自己的身份。他从不冒险到1000英里以外的北苏门答腊，两部纪录片都是在那里拍摄的，他也从不让人拍摄自己，不接受面对面的采访，更不去任何准军事部队成员可能出现的地方。
Protecting Mr. Rukun — who could not be reached for an interview — and his family from potential harm was another matter. Six months before “The Look of Silence” was released, Mr. Oppenheimer and his crew met the Rukun family in Thailand to discuss how to keep them safe. There was talk of moving them to Europe for a few years, but the Rukuns did not want to leave Indonesia. Mr. Oppenheimer suggested delaying the film’s release until the perpetrators had died.
要保护拉昆（本文作者未能联系到他接受采访）及家人免遭伤害又是另一回事了。《沉默之像》发行六个月前，奥本海默和工作人员在泰国与拉昆一家会面，讨论该怎样保护他们的安全。他们希望让他们搬到欧洲去住几年，但拉昆一家不愿离开印度尼西亚。奥本海默建议推迟发行影片，直至行凶者们都死光。
“The family said, ‘This needs to come out now,’ ” Mr. Oppenheimer recalled.
“他们一家说，‘这片子应该现在就问世，’”奥本海默回忆。
The Rukuns opted to move hundreds of miles from North Sumatra to an undisclosed location in the country, where, Mr. Oppenheimer said, human rights lawyers and activists live around them in a protective huddle, on high alert for any hints of intimidation or threats. (The True/False Film Fest in Columbia, Mo., helped raise $35,000 for Adi Rukun to open an optometry shop.)
拉昆一家最后选择离开北苏门答腊，搬到数百英里外一处地址保密的乡村。奥本海默说，为保护他们，人权律师与活动分子们围绕他们居住，高度警惕着任何威胁或恫吓的迹象。密苏里州哥伦比亚的真与假电影节(The True/False Film Fest)捐助了35000美元，帮助阿迪·拉昆开了一家验光配镜店。
So far, Mr. Oppenheimer said, no threats have come.
奥本海默说，迄今他们没有受到任何威胁。
Part of the reason might be the rapturous reception that met the “The Look of Silence” in a country where up until a year and a half ago, official denial about the massacres seemed unshakable. “The Act of Killing” had had an underground release in the country, via closed screenings. Publicly mentioning the film carried risk; a newspaper editor was physically attacked for writing about it and naming the Pancasila Youth, the paramilitary group that led the killings.
部分原因或许是因为《沉默之像》在印度尼西亚大受好评，要知道，一年半之前，印尼官方对大屠杀的否认似乎还是不可动摇的。《杀戮演绎》一度在这个国家地下发行，秘密放映。公开提起这部影片都存在风险；一位新闻编辑写了关于这部影片的影评，并且指名道姓地提到引起屠杀的准军事部队“五戒青年团”(Pancasila Youth)，因此遭到袭击。
The Oscar nomination, however, gave “The Act of Killing” validation and moral heft, paving the way for the very public Indonesian premiere in November of “The Look of Silence,” which was advertised on Jakarta billboards and drew thousands. When Mr. Rukun showed up unannounced afterward, the crowds gave him a 10-minute standing ovation.
不过，奥斯卡提名令《杀戮时刻》获得了认可和道德肯定，这为去年11月印度尼西亚首映《沉默之像》铺平了道路。影片在雅加达的公告牌上做了广告，吸引了成千上万名观众。首映结束后拉昆的意外出现获得了观众们十分钟的起立鼓掌。
In a way, Mr. Rukun’s family tragedy was the catalyst for both films. Mr. Oppenheimer, an American then living in London (and now in Denmark), first visited Indonesia 14 years ago to help plantation workers dying of a chemical herbicide film their efforts to unionize. After the company hired the Pancasila Youth to menace the workers, Mr. Oppenheimer said, they swiftly dropped their demands. But haltingly, they began telling him of the grisly murders and disappearances that the paramilitary group had carried out decades before. “I realized what was killing my friends was not just poison, but fear,” Mr. Oppenheimer said.
在某种程度上，拉昆一家的悲剧是两部影片的催化剂。14年前，侨居伦敦（现居丹麦）的美国人奥本海默第一次访问印度尼西亚，帮助受某种化学除草剂影响而濒死的种植园工人们拍摄他们建立工会的努力。奥本海默说，种植公司请来“五戒青年团”威胁这些工人，工人们只得迅速放弃了自己的要求。但他们迟疑地给奥本海默讲了这个准军事团体几十年前便开始进行的可怕谋杀和他们一手造成的失踪事件。“我意识到，杀害我的朋友们的，不仅仅是有毒物质，还有恐惧，”奥本海默说。
The workers also spoke of a man named Ramli, who was among the few victims in the region whose bodies had been found. Shortly after Mr. Oppenheimer met Ramli’s family, the Rukuns, the army silenced the other survivors, whereupon Adi Rukun, he said, urged him to try to film the perpetrators.
工人们还说有一个人名叫拉姆利(Ramli)，是这一带少数几个尸体事后被找到的遇害者。奥本海默与拉姆利的家人，也就是拉昆一家接触之后不久，军方令其他幸存者缄口不语，于是，奥本海默说，阿迪·拉昆敦促他试着拍摄那些行凶者。
Mr. Oppenheimer began doing so and was dumbfounded by their braggadocio. In 2004, two older former regional paramilitary leaders led him to a river to show, in enthusiastic detail, how they carved up their victims and even drank their blood — an act they believed would stave off insanity. Mr. Oppenheimer said the episode, which appears in “The Look of Silence,” was the inspiration for both films.
奥本海默就这样做了，那些人的耀武扬威令他哑口无言。2004年，两个年长的前地区准军事组织领导人带他来到一条河边，热情地演示各种细节——他们当年是怎样把遇难者切成一块一块，甚至喝他们的血，这些人相信这些举动可以预防精神失常。这段情节出现在《沉默之像》中，奥本海默说，正是这一幕启发了他拍摄这两部影片。
After watching the raw footage, Mr. Rukun wanted to meet his brother’s killers. Mr. Oppenheimer said that he initially refused, citing the obvious dangers, but that Mr. Rukun pressed him. The crew accurately predicted that filming the paramilitary’s highest-echelon leaders in the first documentary would provide cover for the second one: The lower-ranking regional members interviewed in “The Look of Silence” believed that Mr. Oppenheimer was friends with their powerful higher-ups.
在看过未剪辑的原片后，拉昆希望见一见杀害自己兄弟的凶手们。奥本海默说，因为显然有危险，自己起先拒绝了，但拉昆一再催促他。剧组成员准确地预见到，在第一部影片中拍摄准军事组织的最高领导可以为第二部纪录片提供掩护——《沉默之像》中采访的较低级的区域成员相信，奥本海默是那些有势力的上级们的朋友。
The aftermath of both films is still unfolding. Aware of their populist appeal, the politician Joko Widodo vowed in his presidential campaign to improve the country’s human rights record. He went on to win, although Amnesty International said rampant abuses continued. Major news publications have called for the government to face the past. In March, the film was screened at a military headquarters.
两部影片带来的后果至今还在延续。政治家佐科·维多多(Joko Widodo)意识到它们在平民中的重大影响，在竞选总统的宣传活动中承诺提高印度尼西亚的人权状况。他最终赢得选举，尽管国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)说，严重的虐待状况还在持续。大多数新闻出版物呼吁政府直面过去。在三月，这部电影在印尼一处军事指挥部上映。
Mr. Oppenheimer said that one reaction he especially treasured came from the filmmaker Werner Herzog, a producer for both films. “He said, ‘Joshua, art doesn’t make a difference — long pause — until it does.’ ”
奥本海默说，他最珍视的评论来自两部影片的制片人沃纳·赫尔佐格(Werner Herzog)。“他说，‘约书亚，艺术不能改变什么——长长的停顿——直到它最终真的促成了改变。’”