CHICAGO — LAST month a retired Hindu schoolteacher named Dinanath Batra, who had brought a lawsuit against me and Penguin Books, India, succeeded in getting my book, “The Hindus: An Alternative History,” withdrawn from publication in India. The book, the court agreed, was a violation of India’s blasphemy law, which makes it a crime to offend the sensibilities of a religious person.
芝加哥——上个月，一位名叫蒂纳纳特·巴特拉(Dinanath Batra)的印度教徒及退休教师对我和企鹅出版社(Penguin Books)印度分社提起诉讼，导致出版社放弃在印度出版我的书《印度教徒：一段别样的历史》(The Hindus: An Alternative History)。法院裁决，这本书违反了印度的渎神法，根据该法律，冒犯信教者的感情是一种犯罪。
Within hours I was receiving hundreds of emails from colleagues, students, readers, high school friends and even complete strangers — in the United States, India and beyond — commiserating with me in my dark hour. But their sympathy, while appreciated, was also wasted: I was in high spirits.
几个小时之内，我就收到了数百封电子邮件，它们来自我的同事、学生、读者、高中同学，甚至完全不认识的陌生人。这些发自美国、印度和其他国家的电邮对我遭此厄运表示了同情。虽然我心怀感激，但这种同情却是多余的：当时我正兴高采烈。
I have devoted my entire academic career, going back to the 1960s, to the interpretation of Hinduism and Indian society, and I have long been inured to the vilification of my books by a narrow band of narrow-minded Hindus.
从上世纪60年代起，我就把自己的整个学术生涯投入到对印度教和印度社会的阐释中，早已习惯了别人对我的著述的非难和中伤，也习惯了少数印度教徒的狭隘心胸。
Their voices had drowned out those of the broader, more liberal parts of Indian society; it reminded me of William Butler Yeats’s line: “The best lack all conviction, while the worst / Are full of passionate intensity.”
他们的声音淹没了印度社会中更普遍存在、更具自由精神的群体。这让我想起了威廉·巴特勒·叶芝(William Butler Yeats)的诗句：“优秀的人们信心尽失，坏蛋们则充满了炽烈的狂热。”
What is new, and heartening, this time is that the best are suddenly full of passionate intensity. The dormant liberal conscience of India was awakened by the stunning blow to freedom of speech that had been dealt by my publisher in giving in to the demands of the claimants, agreeing to take the book out of circulation and pulp all remaining copies.
但这一次，出现了令人振奋的新情况：突然之间，优秀的人迸发出强烈的热情。我的出版商对原告的要求做出让步，同意停止发行该书，并将余下的库存化为纸浆——沉睡的印度自由派意识，被言论自由遭受的这一记沉重打击唤醒了。
I think the ugliness of the word “pulp” is what struck a nerve, conjuring up memories of “Fahrenheit 451” and Germany in the 1930s. The outrage had been pent up for many years, as other books, films, paintings and sculptures were forced out of circulation by a mounting wave of censorship.
我觉得，“化为纸浆”这个词的丑陋含义触动了人们的神经，唤起了大家对《华氏451度》(Fahrenheit 451)和德国上世纪30年代焚书运动的记忆。由于猛烈的审查浪潮逼迫其他书籍、电影、绘画和雕塑作品退出人们的视线，这样的怒火已经被压制了很多年。
My case was simply the last straw, in part because of its timing, just when many in India had begun to view with horror the likelihood that the elections in May will put into power Narendra Modi, a member of the ultra-right wing of the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party.
我的案子只不过是最后一根稻草，这部分是因为它正好处在这样一个时刻：很多印度人已经开始感到惊恐，因为5月举行的大选可能会把纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)推上台，而莫迪领导的印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)是一个极右翼的印度教民族主义政党。
If Mr. Batra’s intention was to keep people from reading the book, it certainly backfired: In India, not a single copy was destroyed (the publisher had only a few copies in stock, and those in bookstores quickly sold out), and e-books circulate freely. You cannot ban a book in the age of the Internet. Its sales rank on Amazon has been in single-digit heaven. “Banned in Boston” is a selling label.
如果巴特拉的目的是防止人们阅读这本书，他的做法肯定事与愿违：在印度，一本《印度教徒》也没有遭到销毁（出版商的库存只有几本，已经上架的书很快就销售一空），而且该书的电子版还在自由传播。在互联网时代，禁止一本书是不可能的，这本书在亚马逊的销售排名榜上一直高居前十。当年，“禁书”的标签是一个卖点。
Attention has now shifted, rightly, to the broader problems posed by the Indian blasphemy law. My case has helped highlight the extent to which Hindu fundamentalists (Hindutva-vadis, those who champion “Hindutva,” or “Hindu-ness”) now dominate the political discourse in India.
现在，人们的注意力已经顺理成章地转移到了印度渎神法带来的更广泛的问题。我的案件帮助突显了，印度教原教旨主义者（Hindutva-vadis，宣扬“印度教性”的人）当前在印度的政治辩论中占据的主导地位。
Two objections to the book cited in the lawsuit reveal something about the Hindutva mentality. First, the suit objects “that the aforesaid book is written with Christian Missionary Zeal.” This caused great hilarity among my friends and family, since I grew up in a Jewish family in Great Neck, N.Y.
在这个案件中，反对该书的两个理由暴露了“印度教性”的一些心态。首先，他们称“此书是以基督教传教士的热情写成”。我的朋友和家人都觉得这实在搞笑，因为我是在纽约大颈区的一个犹太家庭长大的。
But when I foolishly decided to set the matter straight — “Hey,” I wrote to an accuser, “I’m Jewish” — I was hit with a barrage of poisonous anti-Semitism. One correspondent wrote: “Hi. I recently came across your book on hindus. Where you try to humiliate us. I don’t know much about jews. Based on your work, I think jews are evil. So Hitler was probably correct in killing all jews in Germany. Bye.”
但是，当我愚蠢地决定澄清这件事的时候，我受到了反犹太言论的恶毒攻击。“嘿，”我写信给一名原告说，“我是犹太人。”一个人在写给我的信里说：“嗨，最近我看了你写的关于印度教徒的书。你想用这本书羞辱我们。我对犹太人了解不多，但从你的书来看，我觉得犹太人很邪恶。所以，希特勒杀光所有德国犹太人的做法可能未必是错的。再见。”
It’s hard to have a religious dialogue with someone who begins the conversation like that. I was doing better in my role as a Christian missionary.
你很难跟一个这样开口说话的人进行关于宗教的探讨。我还不如被当成基督徒传教士呢。