KATMANDU, Nepal — In a visit that has transfixed this impoverished country, the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, told Nepal’s legislature on Sunday that its effort to write the nation’s Constitution was a sacred process.
尼泊尔加德满都——印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)对这个贫穷国家的访问令举国震动，他在周日对尼泊尔议会说，这个立法机构撰写该国宪法的过程是神圣的。
“You are writing a treatise just like the rishis in the past wrote the Vedas and Upanishads,” Mr. Modi said, referring to Hindu sages and the religious scriptures they wrote.
“你们正在撰写一部大作，就像印度哲人过去撰写吠陀和奥义书一样，”莫迪说。他指的是印度的先贤及其撰写的宗教典籍。
The 50-minute speech, the first by a foreign leader before Nepal’s legislature, the Constituent Assembly, was clearly intended to urge Nepal’s leaders to finish the country’s Constitution, delayed for years.
这是第一次有外国领导人在尼泊尔议会制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)发表演讲。这番长达50分钟的讲话明显意在呼吁尼泊尔领导人，完成拖延了多年的宪法制定工作。
Perhaps just as important, Mr. Modi avoided suggesting how Nepal’s legislators should resolve their remaining controversies over how to delineate states, whether to empower a president or prime minister, and whether Hinduism should be declared the state religion. Nepal, like India, is majority Hindu.
也许同样重要的是，莫迪并没有建议尼泊尔议员应该如何解决仍然存在的分歧，包括如何划定地区边界，是否赋权一名总统或总理，以及印度教是否应该被确立为国教。与印度一样，尼泊尔的多数人口信奉印度教。
“My work is neither to give directive nor to interfere with your work in Nepal,” Mr. Modi said, “because Nepal itself is a sovereign nation.”
“我要做的既不是发出指令，也不是干预你们的工作，”莫迪说，“因为尼泊尔本身是一个主权国家。”
Indian and Nepali analysts praised Mr. Modi.
印度和尼泊尔的分析人士都对莫迪表示赞赏。
“He hit all the right notes,” said Manjeet Kripalani, executive director of the Indian Council on Global Relations.
印度全球关系委员会的执行总监曼谷特·克里帕拉尼(Manjeet Kripalani)说，“他的话从头到尾都很得体。”
A deeply fractious country, Nepal has been unusually united in its embrace of Mr. Modi, the first Indian prime minister in 17 years to make a state visit here. Nepali and Indian flags fluttered throughout a warren of muddy streets in the capital, Katmandu, and large banners were hung across major intersections welcoming him. “Long Live Nepal-India Friendship,” they declared.
尼泊尔是一个深度分裂的国家，这一次却不同寻常地团结一心，欢迎莫迪。莫迪是17年来第一位对尼泊尔进行国事访问的印度总理。在首都加德满都狭窄、泥泞的街道上，尼泊尔和印度的国旗迎风招展。主要的十字路口都悬挂着欢迎他的巨幅标语。上面写着，“尼泊尔和印度友谊长青”。
When Mr. Modi stepped off his airplane, a 19-gun salute boomed over the city. He was greeted by an obviously ailing Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who recently returned from treatment in the United States for lung cancer.
莫迪走下飞机时，19响礼炮响彻全城。明显身体状况不佳的总理苏西尔·柯伊拉腊(Sushil Koirala)迎接了他。柯伊拉腊最近刚从美国治疗肺癌回来。
Mr. Modi’s visit has inspired unusual consensus here that Nepal set aside decades of mistrust and accept Indian offers to help develop Nepal’s hydropower and tourism potentials. Such optimism has flowered before here only to be crushed by Indian indifference or Nepali mistrust, but there is real hope that this time will be different. Mr. Modi’s campaign messages of economic development and good governance resonated strongly in Nepal, which has been deprived of both for decades.
莫迪的来访在这里激发了不同寻常的共识，尼泊尔把几十年的不信任放在一边，接受印度帮助自己开发水电设施和旅游潜力。在此之前，类似的乐观也曾出现，都被印度的冷漠态度或尼泊尔的不信任所粉碎，但这一次情况真的有希望发生改变。莫迪有关经济发展和良政的竞选主旨在尼泊尔引发了强烈反响。因为这两者都是尼泊尔几十年来不曾有过的。
“This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to begin fresh and build a level of trust that needs to be developed to define relations for the next 50 years,” said Sridhar K. Khatri, former executive director of the South Asia Center for Policy Studies in Katmandu.
原加德满都南亚政策研究中心主任斯里达尔·K·卡特里(Sridhar K. Khatri)说，“这是一个二三十年才有的机会，可以利用它来重新开始，建立起足以定义未来50年双边关系的信任。”
A last-minute dispute over the wording of a major hydropower development agreement meant that the two sides signed only minor agreements on Sunday. But there is considerable hope that the power deal will materialize.
双方在最后时刻因为一项大型水电开发项目的协议措辞产生了争论，这意味着双方在周日只签署了一些次要的协议。但就该项目达成协议的希望仍然很大。
“His visit has brought great hope,” Ayush Shrestha, a 29-year-old marketing executive, said at a Katmandu restaurant. “It has led even our own political parties to sit down, put aside their differences and discuss the agenda with Modi.”
“莫迪的访问带来了巨大的希望，”29岁的营销主管阿尤什·什雷斯塔(Ayush Shrestha)在加德满都的一家餐厅说。“甚至连我们自己的政党都坐了下来，搁置分歧，与莫迪讨论议程。”
Mr. Modi was elected in May with the biggest majority in Parliament and the highest hopes for transforming India showered on any leader in 30 years. Domestically, his tentative legislative steps since then have disappointed some supporters, but his outreach to India’s long-ignored neighbors has received almost universal praise. South Asia is one of the world’s poorest and least integrated regions in the world, and India’s longtime preoccupation with domestic matters is partly to blame.
莫迪在今年5月当选总理，所在党也成为国会第一大党，与30年来的各任领导人相比，莫迪最有希望推动印度转型。在国内，莫迪试探性的立法举措让一些支持者感到失望，但对印度长期忽略的邻国的关注，几乎受到一致好评。南亚是世界上最贫穷、一体化程度最低的地区，这部分是因为印度长期以来只关注国内问题。
In recent years, China has stepped into the vacuum left by India, leading New Delhi to assume responsibilities in its own neighborhood. In a first for an Indian prime minister, Mr. Modi invited to his inauguration the other members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, a group of eight countries, including Pakistan, its longtime foe. Mr. Modi first visited Bhutan and is soon headed to Sri Lanka.
最近几年，中国趁机填补了印度留下的真空，超越新德里，在该地区承担责任。莫迪是第一位邀请南亚区域合作联盟( South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation)其他成员国参加就职典礼的印度总理，该联盟共有八个成员国，其中包括印度的宿敌巴基斯坦。莫迪首先访问了不丹，然后便立即前往斯里兰卡。
“The warm embrace Modi has received in Nepal raises the question of whether China is really the threat to India’s influence that some feared,” Ms. Kripalani said.
克里帕拉尼表示，“莫迪在尼泊尔受到热烈欢迎，这引发了一个问题——中国是否真的像一些人担心的那样，威胁到印度的影响力。”
It is unclear whether Mr. Modi’s visit will inspire political compromise in Nepal, where legislative acrimony is a constant. A 10-year insurgency ended in 2006, but a resulting Constituent Assembly failed after four years of effort to write a Constitution. Paralysis ensued until elections in November led to the rout of the dominant Maoist parties.
目前尚不清楚，莫迪的访问是否会在尼泊尔推动政治妥协，尼泊尔的立法机构经常出现激烈的争论。一场长达10年的动乱于2006年终结，由此产生的制宪会议在经过四年的努力后，没能撰写出宪法。瘫痪状态一直持续到11月份的大选之前，导致了占主导地位的毛派政党的溃败。
Before his speech, some analysts worried that Mr. Modi would urge Nepal to adopt a constitutional provision declaring the country a Hindu state, as royalist factions have advocated. An avowed Hindu nationalist, Mr. Modi is scheduled to visit the Pashupatinath temple, one of Hinduism’s holiest places, on Monday, an arrangement made in part to coincide with a religiously auspicious day.
在莫迪发表演讲之前，一些分析人士担心，莫迪会敦促尼泊尔在宪法中做出规定，宣布尼泊尔为印度教国家，就像保皇派提倡的那样。莫迪公开承认自己是印度教民族主义者，他将于周一参观帕斯帕提那神庙(Pashupatinath)——印度教最神圣的地方之一。选择周一参观部分是因为当天是宗教吉日。