JAKARTA, Indonesia — The death of an Indonesian copywriter has generated a surge of anger in Indonesia, turning the young woman into an inadvertent symbol of the grueling, workaholic culture of the advertising world.
印度尼西亚雅加达——一名广告文案的死在印度尼西亚引发了一场怒潮，无意之中，这个离世的年轻姑娘变成了广告界不堪负荷的工作狂文化的象征。
Shortly after working a 30-hour shift, Ananda Pradnya Paramita, 27, a copywriter for Young & Rubicam Indonesia, fell into a coma on Saturday at a South Jakarta pizzeria.
周六，上完30个小时的班之后不久，27岁的广告文案阿南达·普拉迪亚·帕拉米塔(Ananda Pradnya Paramita)在南雅加达的一家披萨店里陷入昏迷状态。她供职于扬·罗比凯印度尼西亚广告公司(Young & Rubicam Indonesia)。
Ms. Paramita, who referred to herself as Mita Diran on social networks, was taken to a hospital, but died the following day.
在社交网络上称自己为米塔·迪兰(Mita Diran)的帕拉米塔被人送进了医院，但却在第二天去世。
Her revealing final post on Twitter, “30 hours of working and still going strong,” has prompted accusations that her agency pushed her over the edge with its work demands.
她的最后一篇Twitter帖子说，“上了30个小时的班，但依然要坚强。”这篇透露真相的帖子促使人们谴责她所在的公司工作负荷太高，把她逼上了绝路。
On a corporate message of condolence posted on Young & Rubicam Indonesia’s Facebook page, commenters accused the agency of exploitation and criminal negligence.
扬·罗比凯印度尼西亚广告公司在Facebook页面上以公司名义发表了一封吊唁信，人们纷纷跟帖评论，谴责该公司剥削员工和过失犯罪。
Geets Harris, an associate creative director at Ogilvy & Mather in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, joined the thread to criticize advertising executives for what she said was their myopic preoccupation with the bottom line. Her employer, Ogilvy & Mather, is owned by the British multinational advertising agency WPP, which also owns Young & Rubicam.
奥美公司(Ogilvy & Mather)马来西亚吉隆坡分部的副创意总监吉茨·哈里斯(Geets Harris)也加入了批评广告公司高管的行列。她表示，那些高管目光短浅，只知道关注收益。她的雇主奥美属于英国跨国广告集团WPP所有，扬·罗比凯也属于这个集团。
“Advertising culture must change,” she wrote, adding that she knows “many creatives who visit hospitals more often than they do the client.”
“广告业的文化必须改变，”她写道。她还补充说，她知道“许多创意人员看医生的频率高于见客户的频率”。
Ms. Harris later sent an open letter to Young & Rubicam and WPP in which she proposed an 11-point plan to improve conditions in the advertising industry. The creative director urged no more than two hours of overtime per day and the elimination of short deadlines.
随后，哈里斯给扬·罗比凯广告公司和WPP写了一封公开信。她在信中提出了一项改善广告业工作条件的计划，计划共有11点内容。身为创意总监的她呼吁每天加班时间不超过两小时，取消紧迫的限期。
Young & Rubicam Indonesia has stressed that the agency adheres to the country’s labor law, which prohibits more than three hours of overtime per day.
扬·罗比凯印度尼西亚公司强调，公司遵守了印度尼西亚的劳动法。该国劳动法禁止每天加班超过三小时。
“Up until now, we’re still trying to find out what really happened internally,” said Sie Zin Lie, a Young & Rubicam spokeswoman. “We are deeply affected by the loss of Mita, and we pray for the family to have the strength to be able to get through this difficult time.”
扬·罗比凯广告公司的女发言人森辛利(Sie Zin Lie)说，“直到现在，我们仍在设法追查事件的真正内因。失去米塔让我们深感悲痛，我们为她的家人祈祷，希望他们有足够的力量支撑自己渡过难关。”
Daniel Tjoe Sunaryo, 32, a former creative director who worked in a Jakarta ad agency for 10 years, said that in the industry, “whatever you do is never enough.”
32岁的丹尼尔·祖·松纳约(Daniel Tjoe Sunaryo)曾在雅加达的一个广告机构工作十年，担任创意总监。他说，在这个行业，“无论你干多少活都不够。”
Mr. Sunaryo recalled spending nights at the office to meet deadlines — he has since quit to become a yoga instructor — and said that within ad agencies there was a sense of pride about being a workaholic and pushing beyond the limits.
松纳约回忆了他在办公室熬夜赶期限的情形——后来他辞了职，当了一名瑜伽教练。他说，广告公司里存在一种以疯狂工作、挑战极限为荣的意识。
Ms. Paramita’s own Twitter feed paints her as a vibrant but sleep-deprived young woman who was also familiar with long hours. In her posts, she joked about moving her bed to the office and of her diet of coffee and energy drinks.
在Twitter帖子中，帕拉米塔把自己刻画成一个精力旺盛却得不到足够睡眠、对长时间工作习以为常的年轻女性。她曾在帖子中开玩笑，说要把床搬进办公室，还说她把咖啡和功能饮料当粮食。
It is unclear whether the copywriter’s death was related to her workaholic lifestyle, but those in the industry say it is unlikely that she was forced to work 30 straight hours.
目前还不清楚，这名文案的身故是否和她拼命工作的生活方式有关，但业内人士说，她不太可能被迫连续工作30个小时。
Cynthia Agustina, a commercial producer who has worked closely with advertising agencies for more than a decade, said that while all-nighters were an occupational hazard, conditions had improved in recent years.
和广告公司密切合作了十多年的商业广告制作人辛西娅·阿古斯蒂纳 (Cynthia Agustina)说，整夜工作是这个行业的一种职业风险，不过近些年，广告业的工作条件已经有所改善。
“I don’t think she just pulled a 30-hour shift because she had to, but also because she wanted to,” Ms. Agustina said. “And I don’t know any company that says, ‘I don’t care what you do, just deliver.’ ”
阿古斯蒂纳说，“我认为，她这样连干30个小时绝不仅仅是出于无奈，肯定还因为她自己想这么干。据我所知，任何公司都不会这么说，‘我不管你怎么干，反正你必须完成任务。’”