NEW DELHI — Exit polls released Monday suggested that voters in India’s parliamentary election will deliver a mandate for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist who has promised to create manufacturing jobs and overhaul the country’s infrastructure.
新德里——周一公布的出口民调显示，在印度议会选举中，选民将把大权赋予了人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)的纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)。莫迪是一名民族主义印度教徒，承诺将创造制造业工作岗位并全面升级印度的基础设施。
The country’s stock market surged to a record high on the last day of voting on the news that the B.J.P. coalition could receive more than 272 of the lower house’s 545 seats, enough to allow Mr. Modi to form a government without forging a coalition with fractious regional power brokers.
在选举的最后一天，该国股市飙升至历史新高，因为有消息称，人民党联盟可能会获得议会下院545个席位中的超过272席，足以让莫迪在无需与难以驾驭的地方权贵联手的情况下组阁。
However, India’s exit polls are not always reliable, having incorrectly predicted a B.J.P. victory in 2004, when the Indian National Congress won by a comfortable margin, and underestimated the Congress’s winning margin in 2009. The official vote count will take place on Friday.
不过，印度的出口民调并不总是可靠。2004年，出口民调错误地预测人民党胜出，结果印度国大党(Indian National Congress)却以不小的优势赢得选举；2009年，出口民调低估了国大党的获胜幅度。官方的选票统计将在周五进行。
Turnout exceeded 66 percent, according to the election commission, before Monday’s voters were included in the polls, setting a new benchmark in India. The previous record, of around 64 percent, was set in 1984, during a wave of emotion after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
根据选举委员会公布的数据，不包括周一的选民，投票率已超过66%，创下了印度的新纪录。之前的纪录为1984年的64%，当时印度正处在前总理英迪拉·甘地(Indira Gandhi)遇刺身亡后的情感冲击中。
Mr. Modi, 63, tapped into growing frustration with the Congress party, and the Gandhi Nehru political dynasty that has controlled the party since India’s independence in 1947. In an interview published on Monday, he promised that he would come to power without “hangers-on or darbaris,” a Hindi word that translates as “courtiers.”
63岁的莫迪利用了民众日益增长的失望之情，而这种情绪针对的是国大党，以及印度1947年独立以来把持该党的甘地-尼赫鲁政治王朝。在周一发布的采访中，他承诺掌权后不会被“马屁精和弄臣”包围。
“Look at what is happening in the capital,” he said. “Delhi is being controlled by a cabal that has vested interests in the status quo.”
“看看首都发生的事情，”他说。“德里被小集团控制了，维持现状符合他们的既得利益。”
As the campaign entered its final weeks, Mr. Modi appeared confident of winning, and at rallies he began to focus his remarks on the need for a large margin of victory to bring change to India.
随着竞选进入最后几周，莫迪显露出胜券在握的姿态。在集会中，他开始重点谈及，为了给印度带来变革，人民党需要大获全胜。
“If a vehicle is stuck in the mud, and the mud is strong, no matter how hard you push, you cannot pull it out,” he said at a rally in the city of Roorkee last weekend. “If the whole country is in a deep ditch, I need strength, dear brothers and sisters, I need 300 seats to get it out.”
“如果车陷进了泥地里，泥巴又很黏，不管多么用力地推，车就是出不来，”他上周在鲁尔基市的集会上说道。“如果说整个国家掉进了深渊，那么我需要力量，亲爱的兄弟姐妹们，我需要300席来拯救它。”
Jai Pal Singh, a reporter for the Voice of the Nation, said voters’ expectations of Mr. Modi were so high that they could prove dangerous if they were not met.
国民之声电视台(Voice of the Nation)的记者贾伊·帕尔·辛格(Jai Pal Singh)认为，选民对莫迪的期望值极高，一旦未能获得满足，可能变得相当危险。
“If the results are not up to the mark, if there will not be a drastic change in life — what shall I say — the emotions will break,” Mr. Singh said.
“假如结果不达标，假如生活没有巨大的转变——怎么说好呢——情绪会崩溃，”辛格称。
After Monday’s exit polls suggested that the Congress’s share of parliamentary seats might fall below 100, party officials said that the results were unreliable. In a television appearance, the party spokesman Randeep Surjewala said that Mr. Modi’s campaign had stirred up tensions between Hindus and Muslims.
周一的出口民调还显示，国大党的议会席位或许会不及100席。国大党官员继而宣称这一结果并不可靠。该党发言人兰迪普·苏尔吉瓦拉(Randeep Surjewala)在电视上说，莫迪的竞选掀起了印度教徒与穆斯林之间的对立。
“He may have managed to get some support in some pockets, but in the long term it is India which lost because of this rabid polarization,” Mr. Surjewala said.
“他或许是在某些方面获得了部分支持，但长期看来，这种极其严重的对立将让印度失败，”苏尔吉瓦拉说。
Markets, however, responded positively. Since December, when local elections pointed to a national B.J.P. victory, stock market indexes have risen about 12 percent. That trend continued on Monday, when the Sensex index surged 556 points to 23,551, and the 50-share Nifty benchmark climbed to a record 7,020.05 points. The Indian rupee also rose to its strongest level since July.
然而，市场的反应颇为积极。自去年9月地方选举结果指向人民党的全国性胜利后，股市指数抬升了12%左右。本周一也延续了这一趋势：Sensex指数飙升556点，收于23551点；“漂亮50”基准指数则攀升至创纪录的7020.05点。印度卢比的汇率也升至去年7月以来的最高水平。