JAKARTA, Indonesia — It looks like a horror movie. As a villager slices open the belly of a python, a man’s body emerges, after it had been swallowed whole by the giant snake the day before.
印度尼西亚雅加达——那看起来像一部恐怖片。一位村民切开一只巨蟒的腹部，一个男人的身体出现了。在那之前一天，他被这只巨蟒完整地吞噬了进去。
The video of the episode emerged after a search party in the remote Indonesian village of Salubiro, on the island of Sulawesi, glimpsed the shape of shoes in the belly of the python. After chasing the snake and killing it, the Indonesians sliced open the python, revealing the body of the villager, whose name was Akbar.
这段视频之前的情况是：在印度尼西亚苏拉威西岛偏远的萨路毕鲁村(Salubiro)村，一支搜索队在一只蟒蛇腹部瞥见了鞋子的形状。这些印尼人在追逐并杀死蟒蛇后，切开了它的腹部，露出了那位村民的尸体，他的名字叫阿克巴尔(Akbar)。
A graphic video clip of men cutting up the python to retrieve the victim’s body was posted to YouTube.
这群男人切开蟒蛇找到受害者尸体的血腥视频片段被发布到了YouTube上。
Human-animal encounters are common in Indonesia, a tropical archipelago that contains Asia’s largest swath of rain forest. Environmentalists worry that such encounters will only increase because of the country’s rapid rate of rain forest destruction, which disrupts ecosystems and leads predators to seek new prey.
人与动物的遭遇在印尼十分常见。这里是一个热带群岛，包含有亚洲最大的一片雨林。环保人士担心，这样的遭遇只会越来越多，因为该国的雨林飞速遭到破坏，扰乱了生态系统，导致食肉动物开始寻找新的猎物。
“As humans push further into wildlife, habitat conflict like this is more likely to occur as both humans and wildlife require space,” said Farwiza Farhan, the chairwoman of Forest, Nature and Environment of Aceh, an environmental organization.
“随着人类进一步闯入野生动物的家园，类似的栖息地冲突更有可能发生，因为人类和野生动物都需要空间，”环保组织亚齐森林、自然与环境组织(Forest, Nature and Environment of Aceh)主席法维扎·法尔汉(Farwiza Farhan)说。
Plantation workers like Mr. Akbar are often the most at risk. A 2013 report by Eyes on the Forest, a coalition of environmental organizations on the island of Sumatra, found that over 12 years, 60 percent of tiger attacks in a region in Riau Province had occurred in concessions where developers had recently cleared the forest.
像阿克巴尔这样的种植园工人往往面临最大的风险。苏门答腊岛的环保组织联盟“关注森林”(Eyes on the Forest)2013年发布的一份报告发现，在之前的12年间，廖内省某地区的老虎袭击事件有60%发生在特许经营地里，因为开发商在之前那些年砍伐了那里的森林。
The report found that the tiger attacks resulted in 27 human deaths, as well as eight dead tigers. Marauding elephants also regularly wander into villages in plantations throughout Sumatra, killing workers.
报告发现，老虎袭击导致27人死亡，8只老虎死亡。四处攫食的大象也经常漫步走进苏门答腊各地种植园的村子，杀死工人。
Sulawesi, a heavily forested island in eastern Indonesia, is much less developed than Sumatra, but it has undergone a major expansion of palm oil plantations over the last decade, which could make python attacks like the one that occurred this week more likely, experts said.
苏拉威西岛是印尼东部一个森林茂密的岛屿，开发程度远不及苏门答腊岛，但专家们表示，在过去十年间，那里的棕榈油种植园大幅扩张，导致本周发生的蟒蛇袭击事件更有可能发生。
Wahdi Azmi, the director of wildlife studies on the veterinary faculty of Syiah Kuala University in Aceh Province, called the recent attack “a rare case of a python eating a person — but also shows that we need to manage human wildlife interactions better by conserving the habitat.”
亚齐省斯亚瓜拉大学(Syiah Kuala University)兽医学系野生动物研究主任瓦迪·阿兹米(Wahdi Azmi)称，最近的袭击事件是“蟒蛇吃人的罕见案例，但也表明我们需要更好地管理人类与野生动物的互动，保护栖息地”。
Pythons are known to attack humans, and can kill them by suffocation, but this represents a rare case in which a python succeeded in swallowing its human victim.
蟒蛇袭击人类的事件从前也曾发生过，它们往往通过窒息杀死人类，但这是一个罕见案例，因为蟒蛇囫囵吞食了人类受害者。
“This is an unfortunate incident,” Mr. Azmi added.
“这是一个不幸事件，”阿兹米还说。
According to Junaedi, a village official who briefed the news media on Tuesday, villagers had heard shouting the day of the attack but assumed it was simply someone hunting pigs, because no one had cried for help. The next day, a search party was sent, and the python was found.
周二，村官朱奈迪(Junaedi)向新闻媒体介绍了情况。据朱奈迪说，阿克巴尔遇袭当天，村民们听到了喊叫声，但以为那只是有人在猎猪，因为没有听到有人喊救命。第二天，他们派出了一个搜索队，发现了那只蟒蛇。