BANGALORE, India — After deliberating for months, Abhilash Sathyendra, a 25-year-old equity adviser in Mysore, India, bought his first Apple phone. He paid 9,000 rupees, or $150, upfront for a black iPhone 4s and swiped his credit card for the remainder, six no-interest monthly payments of $62.50.
印度班加罗尔——经过数月的斟酌，印度迈索尔25岁的股票投资顾问阿比拉什·萨蒂延德拉(Abhilash Sathyendra)买下了他的第一部苹果(Apple)手机。他预付了9000卢比（约合880元人民币）后，拿到了一部黑色的iPhone 4s手机，然后刷信用卡付了余款。他将以免息分期付款的形式，每月支付62.5美元（约合380元人民币），在未来六个月里还清。
“I’ve used Android phones forever, but the iPhone is hardier and makes a social statement,” said Mr. Sathyendra, whose new phone has become a conversation opener with clients. “I think I look, not wow, but cool and corporate,” he said.
“我一直都用Android手机，但iPhone更耐用，也是身份的象征，”萨蒂延德拉说道。他的新手机已经成了他与客户开始谈话的常用主题。他说，“我觉得我看上去尽管不能让人眼前一亮，但很酷很有大企业的派头。”
Indians use the monthly payments, called equated monthly installments, to buy a variety of products and services, like branded jeans and cosmetic dental treatments. That Apple used this method too clinched it for him. “E.M.I.’s make the iPhone affordable to Indians like me,” said Mr. Sathyendra, who takes home a salary of $400 a month.
印度人使用被称为逐月等额本息还款（equated monthly installments，简称EMI）的分期付款手段，购买许多不同的产品和服务，如名牌牛仔裤和牙齿美容服务。而苹果采用这种方式也让他最终下了决心。萨蒂延德拉说，“EMI让像我这样的印度人能够负担得起iPhone了。”他的月薪为400美元。
In 2013, Apple wakened to the potential of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone market. India also happens to be the second-largest mobile market, with 800 million active users. “Apple sees that the market is at a takeoff point. Sales numbers could get serious within a year or two,” said Anshul Gupta, a Mumbai-based principal analyst for mobile devices at the research firm Gartner. Apple’s shipments have doubled from 2012 and will surpass a million phones in 2013, Mr. Gupta said.
2013年，苹果终于认识到了这个世界上增长最快的智能手机市场的巨大潜力。印度也是世界第二大移动通讯市场，有8亿活跃用户。“苹果看到这个市场正要起飞。一两年内，销售数字可能就会十分惊人，”调研公司高德纳(Gartner)驻孟买的移动设备首席分析师安索尔·古普塔说(Anshul Gupta)说。他还说，苹果的出货量与2012年相比已经翻倍，并将在2013年超过100万台。
In a price-sensitive country where multinational corporations sell bottles of soda for 16 cents, pizzas for 75 cents and burger meals for $1.40, basic cellphones have dominated the landscape. Smartphone penetration is less than 20 percent of the phone-using public. But a combination of falling prices, fast 3G speeds and a thriving app ecosystem is fueling the adoption at ripping speeds.
印度消费者对价格很敏感，在这里跨国公司打出16美分一罐汽水、75美分一个披萨、1.4美元一份汉堡套餐的价格，这里也是基本款手机的天下。在使用手机的印度人口中，用智能手机的还不到20%。但智能手机价格下降、3G高速网络，以及蓬勃发展的应用生态系统，这种种因素正让印度人迅速接受智能手机。
Shipments more than doubled, to 41.4 million, last year, according to IDC, a market research firm. The smartphone market grew by 229 percent year-on-year in the third quarter of 2013, and IDC projects shipments will exceed 129 million by 2015.
根据市场调研公司IDC的数据，印度智能手机出货量去年提高了一倍还多，达到了4140万台。2013年第三季度，智能手机市场同比扩大了229%，IDC预测，到2015年，出货量将超过1.29亿台。
With that kind of energy, this is a market where Apple can no longer afford to be a fringe player, selling to an elite few and losing out to pushy rivals. It is also a market where 80 percent of smartphones sell in the range of $70 to $200, said Mr. Gupta, the Gartner analyst. High prices have kept Apple at the tail of the top 10 brands by sales, way behind No. 1 Samsung, which sells more than three-quarters of its phones for less than $400, and No. 2 Micromax of India, whose most expensive phone is $350. The cheapest iPhone costs about $525 in India.
对于这样一个充满活力的市场，苹果不能再作为边缘角色，只面向少数的精英消费者，却在来势汹汹的竞争对手面前落败了。高德纳的古普塔说，在这个市场上，80%的智能手机售价在70到200美元之间。高昂的价格使得苹果一直处于销量前十品牌的末位，大大低于第一位的三星(Samsung)和第二位的印度本土品牌Micromax。三星超过四分之三的手机价格低于400美元，而Micromax最贵的手机也不过350美元。但在印度，最便宜的iPhone售价为525美元。
To draw young buyers and increase its volume and market share, Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., offered a number of enticements besides the payment plan. Full front-page newspaper ads and TV commercials in recent months offered bonuses for trading in certain old phones and multiple deals, but with a single carrier so far. Wary of the inevitable branding-versus-pricing dilemma, Apple carefully couched these offers to not look like discounts.
为了吸引年轻顾客并提高其销售量和市场份额，总部位于加州库比提诺的苹果公司除了推出那种付款方式外，还采用了其他一些措施吸引顾客。最近几个月，苹果在报纸头版上刊登的整版广告和投放电视广告，都推出了以特定型号的旧手机换购的活动，还有多种优惠措施，但目前合作的只有一家电信运营商。苹果在权衡品牌形象和定价时，不可避免地会遇到两难，于是它出于警惕，在推出这些优惠的时候，小心翼翼地避免造成在打折的印象。
“Apple has shown great agility in their India strategy all through 2013,” said Manasi Yadav, a Bangalore-based senior mobile industry analyst with IDC India.
“苹果在2013年全年的印度战略中都显示出了极大的灵活性，”IDC印度分公司驻班加罗尔的高级移动市场分析师马纳西·亚达夫(Manasi Yadav)说。
Alongside the promotional offers, Apple has widened distribution channels, especially in second-tier Indian cities. Anith Prakash, 26, a sales executive at a premium Apple reseller, iPlanet, in a popular Mysore mall, can vouch for the results. In the city, which neighbors the technology hub of Bangalore, the store jostles with outlets of Puma and Levi’s in the mall.
除了促销优惠，苹果还拓宽了分销渠道，特别是在印度的二线城市。苹果优质分销商iPlanet位于迈索尔一家热闹的商场里，这里26岁的销售主管阿尼特·普拉卡什(Anith Prakash)可以保证这种措施能产生效果。迈索尔与印度的科技中心班加罗尔相邻，这家iPlanet店的周围是彪马(Puma)和李维斯(Levi’s)的零售店。
“A lot of younger, first-time customers are attracted to the offers,” said Mr. Prakash, who added that the store had a 40 percent increase in sales in the past few months.
“许多首次购买的年轻顾客都是因为这些优惠措施而来的，”普拉卡什说。他还提到，这家店的销售业绩过去几个月里出现了40%增长。
“The trade-in and E.M.I. offers are getting an excellent response,” he said. “Many are combining both, then the price does not pinch very hard.”
“换购计划和EMI付款方式产生了积极的反响，”他说。“许多顾客将两者结合起来，这样一来价格就不算十分难以承受了。”
Mapping a pricing-versus-branding strategy for India has been tricky for Apple’s executives. (Apple declined to comment for this article.) The initial reaction to the iPhone 5 was tepid. Contrary to the prerelease buzz that some phones would be priced for “emerging markets,” Apple breached yet another Indian smartphone pricing barrier of 70,000 rupees: The top-end iPhone 5s costs 71,000 rupees, or $1,180.
对苹果的高管们来说，为印度制定一个品牌形象与定价相平衡的战略颇为棘手。（苹果公司拒绝对此文置评。）印度市场最初对iPhone 5反应平平。在它上市之前坊间曾盛传，一些手机的定价会面向“新兴市场”，但与这种传言恰恰相反，苹果在印度市场突破了智能手机定价的又一个上限，7万卢比：最顶级的iPhone 5s售价7.1万卢比，即1180美元。
Mobile Unlocked’s iPhone 5s price index, which compares affordability of the phone relative to a country’s per capita income, finds that it is least affordable in India. The $759 price of the iPhone 5s is 22 percent of India’s per capita gross domestic product, compared with 1.37 percent of per capita G.D.P. in the United States and 10 percent in China.
Mobile Unlocked公布的iPhone 5s定价指数将一款手机的价格负担与该国的人均收入相对比，该指数发现iPhone 5s在印度最难以负担。iPhone 5s的价格759美元，相当于印度人均GDP的22%，美国人均GDP的1.37%，中国的10%。
Not unexpectedly, buyers in India were put off. Mr. Prakash, who sold Nokia devices for two years before joining the iPlanet store 18 months ago, said: “Nokia’s entry-level phones cost 2,000 rupees. For that amount, you can only buy iPhone screen protectors and protective cases in our store.”
毫不意外，这样的价格吓走了许多印度人。普拉卡什在一年半前加入那家iPlanet店之前，销售过两年的诺基亚(Nokia)设备，他说：“诺基亚基础款的手机价格为2000卢比。而这些钱在我们店里，只够买iPhone的屏幕保护膜和手机壳。”
In Mysore, Mr. Sathyendra coveted the iPhone 5s but had to pay more than a month’s earnings even for the cheaper 4s he eventually settled for. But others balk at the high price. Shashidhar Sathyanarayan, a 46-year-old software entrepreneur based in Bangalore, said he was happy with his Samsung smartphone. “It is criminal to spend 45,000 rupees for a brand name; only those who want to project a ‘happening’ image will pay,” he said.
在迈索尔，萨蒂延德拉虽然垂涎iPhone 5s，但最后还是买下了比较便宜的4s，即便是后者，都要花去他超过一个月的收入。但其他人则对高价望而却步。班加罗尔46岁的软件商人舍希德尔·萨蒂亚纳拉扬(Shashidhar Sathyanarayan)说，他对自己的三星智能手机没什么不满。“为了一个牌子花上4.5万卢比，这是一种犯罪；只有那些一心想惹人注目的人才会花这个钱，”他说。