MUMBAI, India — Indian newspapers have been gushing about the new governor of the central bank, Raghuram Rajan, in terms usually reserved for Bollywood film stars: his trim physique, his long-distance running, even his “rather photogenic appeal,” as The Mumbai Mirror tabloid wrote this week.
印度孟买——印度报纸对新上任的央行行长拉古拉姆·拉詹(Raghuram Rajan)的报道滔滔不绝，用的是通常留给宝莱坞电影明星的词语：他健康优雅的体格，他的长跑训练，甚至他“相当上镜的感染力”，如小报《孟买镜报》(The Mumbai Mirror)本周所写的那样。
This may not last long.
这可能不会持续太久。
Mr. Rajan, 50, took charge on Wednesday of the Reserve Bank of India, which has tried and failed to stop the steep decline of the rupee against the dollar. India’s chronic inflation is almost certain to move higher in the coming months, given the country’s heavy dependence on imported oil priced in dollars. The stock market is plunging as economic activity slows by the day.
拉詹现年50岁，本周三就任印度储备银行（Reserve Bank of India，简称RBI）行长。印度央行曾试图阻止卢比兑美元汇率的急剧下跌，但未获成功。鉴于印度严重依赖以美元计价的进口石油，该国长期以来的通货膨胀几乎肯定会在未来几个月内继续上升。随着经济活动日益放缓，印度股市正在急剧下挫。
Yet unlike Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Rajan has very little political independence in his new job. Some of the biggest problems bedeviling the Indian economy are beyond his control, like the trade and government budget deficits and the crippling shortage of roads and other infrastructure.
然而不同于美联储主席本·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)，拉詹在其新工作岗位上没有多少政治独立性。一些困扰印度经济的最严重的问题也超出他的控制范围，比如贸易和政府的预算赤字，道路和其他基础设施的严重短缺。
All of his policy options carry big risks that could antagonize large sectors of the public, who will soon forget the rapturous accounts of his athleticism and charm.
所有可供他选择的政策都有巨大的风险，可能会招致来自许多行业的抵制，公众很快也将忘记媒体对他运动天赋和魅力的津津乐道。
“Any entrant to the central bank governorship probably starts at the height of their popularity,” Mr. Rajan said at a news conference early Wednesday evening. “Some of the actions I take will not be popular. The governorship of the central bank is not meant to win one votes or Facebook ‘likes.’ ”
拉詹在周三傍晚的一个新闻发布会上说，“任何成为央行行长的人，可能以最高的受欢迎度开始。我采取的某些行动将不受欢迎。担任央行行长不是为了赢得选票或Facebook上的‘赞’。”
Mr. Rajan, a University of Chicago finance professor, used his initial news conference to announce a long list of financial deregulatory measures that he plans in the coming weeks and months. These included issuing more licenses for new banks, making it easier for banks to open branches across the country and gradually lowering the percentage of assets that banks must hold in government securities — three steps aimed at increasing competition in India’s banking sector, long viewed by critics as a clubby, cautious industry reluctant to lend to small and medium-size businesses or farmers.
拉詹曾是芝加哥大学的金融学教授，在上任后的首次新闻发布会上，他宣布了一长串放松金融管制的措施，计划在未来几周和几个月内推出，其中包括发放更多的新银行牌照，让银行更容易在全国各处开设分行，以及逐步降低银行必须持有政府证券的资产百分比，这三个步骤旨在提高印度银行业的竞争水平。长期以来，印度银行业都被批评家视为一个俱乐部式的谨慎行业，不愿意贷款给中小规模的企业或农民。
The most immediate question facing Mr. Rajan, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund whose most recent job has been as chief economic adviser to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, lies in how to halt the fall of the rupee. He said nothing on Wednesday evening about monetary policy, deferring the subject to a statement to be issued on Sept. 20.
拉詹也曾是国际货币基金组织(IMF)的首席经济学家，最近一直在担任印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)的首席经济顾问。他面临的最迫切问题是如何停止卢比汇率的下跌。周三傍晚，他只字未提货币政策，把这个问题留给了将于9月20日发表的一项声明。
Currency market intervention by the Reserve Bank has helped limit the rupee’s losses this week, and it even gained 0.94 percent on Wednesday, to 67.09 to the dollar. But the rupee’s slide through the summer and its continued weakness have fostered speculation in financial markets that Mr. Rajan might raise short-term interest rates in his first week in office.
本周，储备银行对货币市场的干预帮助抑制了卢比的贬值。周三，卢比甚至还升值0.94%，升至67.09卢比兑换一美元。但卢比整个夏季的跌势和持续疲软已在金融市场引发了一种猜测，人们认为拉詹可能会在上任后第一周内上调短期利率。
A sliding currency pushes up inflation. An inflation-fighting central banker could raise interest rates. Higher rates would make investment in India more attractive to foreign and domestic money managers who have been hustling to move money out of the country. It could help curb inflation, already approaching 10 percent even before the full effect of rising import prices is felt in the coming weeks.
不断贬值的货币会推高通货膨胀，对抗通货膨胀的央行行长可能会提高利率，而提高利率则会让在印度投资在国内外基金经理的眼里更有吸引力，基金经理们正忙着将资金撤出印度。提高利率可能还有助于抑制通货膨胀，印度的通货膨胀已接近10%，虽然进口价格不断上涨所带来的整体影响要在未来几周才能感觉到。
But with the economy already growing at its slowest pace since the worst of the global financial crisis in early 2009, India’s business establishment fiercely opposes any increases in interest rates. The Confederation of Indian Industry, the country’s most prominent business coalition, reiterated on Tuesday its call for the Reserve Bank of India to cut short-term interest rates a full percentage point.
印度经济的增长速度已经是自2009年初金融危机最严重时期以来最慢的了。在这种情况下，印度的工商阶层强烈反对提高利率。周二，印度最具影响力的商业联盟印度工业联合会(Confederation of Indian Industry)再次呼吁印度储备银行将短期利率下调整整一个百分点。
“The last thing you want is to choke off any hope of growth by raising” the benchmark interest rate, said Omkar Goswami, the chairman of CERG Advisory, a consulting firm based in Delhi, and an independent director of Indian companies like Infosys, a big outsourcing company, and IDFC, a financial conglomerate.
总部位于德里的咨询公司CERG Advisory董事长奥姆卡尔·戈斯瓦米(Omkar Goswami)说，“最不想看到的就是因为提高”基准利率而“葬送所有的增长希望”。戈斯瓦米也是大型外包公司Infosys和金融企业集团IDFC等印度公司的独立董事。
Mr. Rajan has a few longer-term options. The Indian government could issue dollar-denominated bonds or seek a loan from his former colleagues at the I.M.F. Either step would replenish and expand the Reserve Bank’s supply of foreign exchange for further currency market intervention if the rupee started tumbling again.
拉詹还有几种长期选择。印度政府可以发行以美元计价的债券，或是寻求从国际货币基金组织其前同事那里贷款。如果卢比再次开始下跌，这两种做法的任何一种都能补充和增加储备银行的外汇供应，使其能进一步干预货币市场。
But it is not going to be solely his call. In contrast with the political independence of the Federal Reserve or the European Central Bank, the Reserve Bank of India, headquartered here since before the country’s independence from Britain in 1947, is required by law to consult closely and take direction from the government in New Delhi.
但这并非他一人能决定。美联储和欧洲央行(European Central Bank)在政治上享有独立性，相比之下，印度法律要求其储备银行必须与新德里的政府部门进行密切协商，听从政府的指导。总部位于新德里的印度储备银行成立于1947年从英国统治下独立出来以前。
Sometimes the government is unusually open, at least by Western standards, in pushing around the Reserve Bank. In late April, a top adviser to Mr. Singh, the prime minister, said publicly that there was a “case for R.B.I. to cut interest rate” policy, and added,” I think we have a case for stronger growth.”
有时，印度政府在摆布储备银行上表现出不同寻常的开诚布公，至少用西方标准来衡量是这样。4月底，总理辛格的一名首席顾问曾公开表示“RBI降低利率是有充分理由的”，并补充说，“我认为我们有可能实现更强劲的增长。”
The adviser who made the remarks was Mr. Rajan. The Reserve Bank of India took action that resulted in the rupee slowly sliding. It has fallen every month since then.
作出上述评论的是拉詹。RBI随后所采取的行动导致卢比缓慢贬值。从那时起，卢比每个月都在贬值。
Mr. Rajan’s supporters said he should not be blamed for putting pressure on the Reserve Bank in late April to reduce interest rates. They said he was only voicing a widely held view in the government at the time that inflation was beginning to recede.
拉詹的支持者说，人们不应该责怪他在4月底向RBI施压让其降低利率的做法。他们说，当时通货膨胀正开始好转，他只是说出了政府内部的广泛看法而已。
Mr. Rajan said on Wednesday evening that he would not discuss past monetary policy decisions.
拉詹周三晚表示不愿意讨论过去的货币政策决定。
Like many central bankers, Mr. Rajan leans toward putting a greater emphasis on reducing inflation and is reluctant to risk higher inflation for the sake of short-term increases in economic growth, people who know him said. Mr. Rajan seemed to confirm that at his news conference early Wednesday evening, when he emphasized that the role of the bank was monetary stability. “Ultimately, this means low and stable expectations of inflation, whether that inflation stems from domestic sources or from changes in the value of the currency, from supply constraints or demand pressures,” he said.
了解拉詹的人说，与大多数央行行长一样，他也更侧重于降低通货膨胀率，不愿意为了短期经济增长而去冒增加通货膨胀的风险。拉詹似乎在周三傍晚的新闻发布会上确实了这一点。他当时强调，央行的作用是保持稳定的货币。他说，“最终，这意味着较低且有稳定预期的通货膨胀率，不论通胀的原因在国内，还是来自于货币价值的浮动，或是由于货币的发行限制或需求压力。”
Mr. Rajan also has a history of skepticism about financial innovations, having warned in a paper in 2005 that they had made credit markets more risky and could prompt a financial crisis.
拉詹一直对金融创新持怀疑态度。他在2005年的一篇文章中曾警告，金融创新会增加信贷市场的风险，而且还可能会引发金融危机。
That was not a popular view at the time. Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, now said to be the chief candidate to lead the Fed, publicly described Mr. Rajan’s paper then as “slightly Luddite” and “largely misguided.”
他的观点当时并不受欢迎。美国前财政部长劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)当时曾公开表示，拉詹的文章“略显保守”而且“在很大程度上是误导”。据称萨默斯目前是美联储主席的头号人选。