I just watched “India’s Daughter,” Leslee Udwin’s documentary about the case of Jyoti Singh, the woman who was gang-raped and fatally injured in New Delhi on Dec. 16, 2012. It features interviews with, among others, one of the men convicted of killing her, who is now on death row; his lawyers; and relatives of both the victim and the rapists.
我刚看完了莱斯莉·尤德温(Leslee Udwin)制作的纪录片《印度之女》(India's Daughter)，它讲述的是乔蒂·辛格(Jyoti Singh)2012年12月16日在新德里被轮奸并最终不治身亡的案子，其中含有一些采访片段。因杀害她而被定罪的一名男子目前关押在死囚牢房，他和他的律师，受害者和几名强奸犯的亲属，以及其他一些人接受了采访。
The documentary has roused much passion and debate in India, and so of course the Indian government has banned it. And at first some of India’s most respected feminists agreed with that decision.
在印度，这部纪录片已经引发了大量的愤怒情绪和辩论，所以印度政府当然会禁播它。最开始时，印度最受尊敬的一些女权主义者也赞成这一决定。
The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting argues the film will incite violence against women. The minister of parliamentary affairs claims it is “an international conspiracy to defame India.” Indira Jaising, a feminist lawyer, attacks it for “creating public space” for the convicts, and fears they may be seen as role models.
印度资讯与广电部(Ministry of Information& Broadcasting)认为，这部纪录片将煽动暴力侵害女性的行为。议会事务部长声称它是“诋毁印度的国际阴谋”。女权主义律师英迪拉·贾辛(Indira Jaising)抨击它是在为罪犯“创造公共空间”，并担心有人会将罪犯视为榜样。
I don’t like the title of the movie. I don’t like many of the people in it. And I don’t agree with much of what they say. But I think banning it is a very bad idea.
我不喜欢这这部纪录片的名字，也不喜欢片中的很多人。我不同意他们说的很多话。但我认为，禁播它是个非常糟糕的主意。
The film shows Mukesh Singh, the convicted criminal, saying he believes that only about 20 percent of girls are “good,” that they are asking for trouble when they go out at night with boys, and that if they don’t want to be killed when they get raped, they should just lie back silently and submit. He also says that he and the other men who assaulted Jyoti Singh were teaching her a lesson, and calls her death an “accident.”
在这部纪录片中，已被定罪的穆克什·辛格(Mukesh Singh)说，他认为只有约20%的女孩是“好女孩”；女孩晚上和男孩一同外出是在自寻麻烦；如果她们在遭到强奸的时候不想死，那就该躺下来顺从地默默忍受。他还表示，他和其他人攻击乔蒂·辛格是为了给她一个教训，并称她的死亡纯属“意外”。
I was riveted to the screen, not because I was shocked but because I had heard these things before, in 1980 in Bombay, from the four men who pinned me down and took turns raping me. It was almost a relief to see and hear it all again onscreen: I hadn’t been remembering that night wrong; my assailants had told me it was my fault they were hurting me; they really had said they were doing me a favor.
我死死盯住屏幕，不是因为我感到震惊，而是因为我之前在孟买听到过这样的说法。1980年时，有四个人按住我，轮奸了我。看到和听到这一切再次出现在屏幕上，几乎让我如释重负：那天晚上的事情我没有记错--袭击者对我说，他们伤害我都是我的错。他们真的说过，是在帮我的忙。
And this is just the reason both that the government has banned “India’s Daughter” and that the film shouldn’t be banned. Mukesh Singh’s words are familiar. His views aren’t particularly radical. The rapist isn’t some bogeyman lurking out there; the rapist represents a side of us. It’s the side of India that celebrates the birth of boys with more expensive sweets than the birth of girls, and that thinks girls will be girls and boys will be boys.
而这既是印度政府禁播《印度之女》的原因，也是它不该遭禁的原因。穆克什·辛格的话听上去很耳熟。他的看法并不是特别激进。这个强奸犯并不是潜伏在外面的妖怪，而是代表着我们的一面。在这一面中，当生下的是男孩而不是女孩时，印度人会用更昂贵的甜点加以庆祝，而且他们认为女孩就是女孩，男孩就是男孩。
Most of the media’s attention has focused on its portrayal of the convict’s opinions, but his lawyers go one better. M.L. Sharma says women are like “flowers” and men like “thorns,” and warns that, “If you put that flower in a gutter, it is spoilt. If you put that flower in a temple, it will be worshiped.” Later, calling women diamonds and men dogs, he says: “If you put your diamond on the street, certainly the dog will take it out. You can’t stop it.”
大多数媒体都把注意力集中在了纪录片是如何阐述这名罪犯的看法上，但他的律师说得更加巧妙。M·L·夏尔马(M.L. Sharma)表示，女人像“花朵”，男人像“荆棘”，并警告说，“如果你把花朵放在阴沟里，它将会遭到毁损。如果你把花朵放在寺庙里，它就会受到膜拜”，后来，他又把女人称为钻石，把男人称为狗，他说：”如果你把钻石放在大街上，肯定会有狗把它叼走。这种事你拦不住。”
But I am not a diamond, and all the dogs I know have four legs.
但我不是钻石，我见过的所有狗都有四条腿。
A.P. Singh, a lawyer for another defendant, gave a television interview during the trial in which he said that if “my daughter or sister engaged in pre-marital activities and disgraced herself,” he would douse her with petrol and burn her alive in front of his whole family.
A·P·辛格(A.P. Singh)是另一名被告的律师。在审判期间接受电视采访时，他表示，如果“我的女儿或姐妹婚前与人交往，自毁清誉，”他会在整个家族面前给她泼上汽油，活活烧死她。
This is not a man now in prison for rape and murder; this is a representative of the law, who appears in court resplendent in a black and white outfit.
说出这番话的，不是犯下强奸和谋杀罪的囚徒，而是代表法律，在法庭上穿着庄严的黑白两色衣服的人。
After the December 2012 attack on Jyoti Singh, rape became a topic of daily conversation in India. This spoke well of us Indians — it was a conversation we needed to have, because we have some pretty outrageous views on women, men and gender roles. “India’s Daughter” is forcing that conversation again, and that can only be positive.
2012年12月乔蒂·辛格事件发生之后，强奸成为了印度日常交谈中的一个话题。这对我们印度人有好处--我们需要进行这样的谈话，因为对于女性、男人和性别角色，我们存在一些非常离谱的看法。《印度之女》正在促使大家再次进行这样的谈话，这有百利而无一弊。
It’s important to hear that policeman say of the victim, “She looked like a cow looks after giving birth to a calf.” (Given the Hindu proscription on the consumption of beef as meat, Jyoti Singh would probably have been safer had she in fact been a cow.) It’s important to see the look on the lawyer’s face when he flatly states that friendship between men and women has no place in Indian society.
听听警察是怎么描述受害者状况的吧，这很重要：“她看起来像一头刚产下小牛犊的母牛。”（鉴于印度教禁止食用牛肉，乔蒂·辛格如果真的是一头牛，很可能会更安全一些。）当律师断然指出，男女之间的友谊在印度社会没有立足之地时，看看他脸上的表情也很重要。