JAMMU, India — After months of negotiations, India’s governing Hindu nationalist party joined a regional party dominated by Muslims to create a state government in the disputed Kashmir region, the first time the Hindu party has ever held a leadership role here.
印度查谟——经过数月的谈判，正在执政的印度教民族主义政党与一个由穆斯林占主导地位的地区政党联手，在存有争议的克什米尔地区建立了一个邦政府，这是这个印度教政党首次在该地区形成领导。
Amid heavy security, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India flew to Jammu, the winter capital of the state, to attend the swearing-in ceremony on Sunday of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, 79, who leads the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Democratic Party. The two men embraced, a hug that few observers would have thought possible as little as a year ago.
在严密的安保之下，印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)乘飞机抵达了该邦的冬季首府查谟，于周日参加了穆夫提·穆罕默德·赛义德(Mufti Mohammad Sayeed)的就职仪式。现年79岁的赛义德是查谟和克什米尔地区的人民民主党的领袖。两人的拥抱，就在一年前还是难以想象的。
“History has given us a big opportunity, and we want to make this alliance the turning point for Kashmir,” Mr. Sayeed said in his first news conference as chief minister.
“历史带给我们一个重大的机遇，我们希望让这个联盟成为克什米尔的转折点，”赛义德在就任首席部长后召开的首次新闻发布会上说。
Elections held in November and December yielded record turnouts, including in districts where boycotts against Indian rule left polling booths nearly deserted. Part of the reason for the surge in voter participation was a desire by those with separatist leanings to defeat Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, whose leaders predicted that it would win an outright majority in the state’s 87-seat legislature.
11月和12月举行的选举的投票率前所未有地高，甚至在一些反对印度统治的地区也是如此，那些地方的投票箱原本几乎被废弃。选民参与度高涨的部分原因是，带有分裂主义倾向的选民想要击败穆迪的人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)。该党的领袖原本预计，将在该邦87个席位的议会中赢得绝对多数席位。
In the end, Bharatiya Janata won 25 seats, all in Hindu-dominated districts. Mr. Sayeed’s party won 28, the most in the assembly.
最终，人民党赢得了25个席位，都在印度教人口占多数的地区。赛义德的政党赢得了28个席位，超过了所有其他政党。
Negotiations between the two parties about forming a government were prolonged, chiefly because the two hold diametrically opposing views on crucial questions.
两党关于组建政府的谈判旷日持久，主要原因是双方在关键问题上有着截然相反的看法。
These include whether to repeal a law that gives Indian soldiers broad immunity from prosecution, even in cases involving the rape and murder of Kashmiri citizens, and whether to keep a constitutional provision, which the B.J.P. wants to scrap, that provides special privileges to Kashmir.
这些问题包括，是否废除一项赋予印度士兵广泛豁免权的法律——其中甚至包括对强奸和谋杀克什米尔公民等罪行免于起诉，以及是否保留一个人民党想要废除的宪法条款，该条款为克什米尔人提供了一些特权。
In a carefully worded alliance agenda, the two sides acknowledged their continuing differences.
一份措辞严谨的联盟议程承认了双方长期存在的分歧。
Mr. Sayeed said his government’s top priority was to bring lasting peace to the region.
赛义德说，其政府的首要任务是给该地区带来持久和平。
A violent insurgency that began in 1989 and cost tens of thousands of lives has largely dissipated, although insurgents based in the region of Kashmir controlled by Pakistan still stage coordinated assaults on occasion and separatist sentiment remains strong. India and Pakistan both claim the entirety of Kashmir and have fought two wars over it.
1989年爆发的暴力叛乱夺取了数万人的生命，目前叛乱已基本平息，但来自巴基斯坦控制的克什米尔地区的叛乱分子仍时不时发起有组织的袭击，分裂主义情绪仍然强烈。印度和巴基斯坦都声称对整个克什米尔地区拥有主权，并因此两度开战。
Syed Ali Geelani, a separatist leader, said that Mr. Sayeed wants to legitimize Indian rule. “They want to convince the freedom-loving people, as well as Pakistan, to accept the status quo,” something to which Kashmiris would never agree, he said.
分裂派领袖赛耶德·阿里·吉拉尼(Syed Ali Geelani)说，赛义德想让印度的统治合法化。他说，“他们想要让热爱自由的人们，以及巴基斯坦人，接受现状，”这是克什米尔人绝不会答应的。