Donald J. Trump became the presumptive Republican presidential nominee on Tuesday with a landslide win in Indiana that drove his principal opponent, Senator Ted Cruz, from the race and cleared the way for the polarizing, populist outsider to take control of the party.
周二在印第安纳州以压倒性优势取胜之后，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)成为共和党总统提名大热人选。这次胜利将他的主要对手参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)逐出赛场，也为这位引发两极反应的民粹主义外来选手掌控共和党扫清了障碍。
Mr. Cruz had pinned his hopes on Indiana, which seemed to offer one of his best chances to deny Mr. Trump the delegates needed to secure the nomination before the party convention in July.
克鲁兹原先把希望寄托在印第安纳州初选上。这似乎是他最有希望阻拦特朗普获得所需代表人数的机会之一。缺了这些代表的支持，特朗普就无法确保自己在7月举行的共和党大会前获得提名资格。
But Mr. Trump, after obliterating his rivals in five states in the Northeast last week, held a strong polling lead in the state, which had 57 delegates up for grabs.
但是，自上周在东北部五个州横扫对手之后，特朗普在印第安纳州的民意调查中一直明显领先。该州共有57个代表名额可供争夺。
Mr. Trump’s victory puts him in a commanding position to clinch the nomination on June 7, when the last Republican contests are held.
特朗普的胜利将他置于这场竞争的制高点，有望在6月7日共和党内最后一轮角逐上演之时，获得该党总统提名资格。
In the Democratic contest, Senator Bernie Sanders was reboundeding from a string of defeats to prevail in Indiana over Hillary Clinton, who largely abandoned the state after polls showed her faring poorly with the predominantly white electorate. But the outcome was not expected to significantly change Mrs. Clinton’s sizable lead in delegates needed to win the Democratic nomination.
在民主党的角逐中，之前经历连串失利的参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)开始反弹，在印第安纳州战胜了希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。在民调显示她在主要为白人的印第安纳选民中支持率欠佳后，克林顿就基本放弃了该州。不过，这一结果预计不会显著改变克林顿在获得党内提名所需代表人数上的巨大领先优势。
Mr. Trump’s victory was an extraordinary moment in American political history: He is now on course to be the first standard-bearer of a party who has not served in elected office since Dwight D. Eisenhower, a five-star general and the commander of Allied Forces in Europe during World War II.
特朗普的胜利是美国政治史上一个非同寻常的时刻：他很可能成为继二战期间欧洲盟军指挥官、五星上将德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)之后，第一位不曾担任民选公职的党内提名人。
Mr. Trump, a real estate tycoon turned reality television celebrity, was not a registered Republican until April 2012. He has given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Democrats, including his likely general election opponent, Hillary Clinton. And, at various points in his life, he has held positions antithetical to Republican orthodoxy on almost every major issue in the conservative canon, including abortion, taxes and gun control.
从地产大亨变身真人秀明星的特朗普直到2012年4月才登记为共和党人。他曾经给民主党人提供过数十万美元的捐款，对象包括如今有可能成为他的大选对手的希拉里·克林顿。在他人生的各个阶段，在包括堕胎、税收和控枪等几乎所有突显保守派准则的重要议题上，特朗普都曾采取与共和党正统思想相悖的立场。
But none of this stopped him from driving nearly every other Republican from the race for the nomination. With his ability to speak to the anxieties of voters, and his shrewd use of celebrity and memorable put-downs, he systematically undercut veteran politicians in a field of candidates that many in the party had hailed as the strongest in at least three decades. And he did so while spending far less money than most of his rivals and employing only a skeletal campaign staff.
然而，这些都不妨碍他将几乎所有竞逐提名资格的其他共和党人逐出这个舞台。凭借诉诸选民焦虑情绪的能力，凭借对名人效应和让人难忘的羞辱言辞的精明利用，特朗普有条不紊地在这场角逐中削弱了老牌政客的力量。在共和党内，本来有不少人认为此次的竞选阵容为至少30年来的最佳。更不用说，他以比大多数对手少得多的竞选资金和区区一个小规模的竞选团队实现了这一点。
After Mr. Cruz exited the race Tuesday night, Mr. Trump appeared subdued and projected a more sober than usual mien as he absorbed the ramifications of the Indiana victory.
周二晚上克鲁兹退出竞选之后，特朗普的态度似乎变得更为柔和。在回味印第安纳州的胜利时，他还表现出比往常更持重的风度。
“It has been some unbelievable day and evening and year — never been through anything like this,” Mr. Trump said. Putting aside the venom he has spewed at Mr. Cruz this year, Mr. Trump said of the senator, “He is one hell of a competitor.’’ He even veered toward empathy for Mr. Cruz, saying he knew how “tough it is” to be brought low by a brutal defeat.
“这是让人难以置信的一天、一夜和一年——我从没经历过这样的事，”特朗普说。抛却他今年对待克鲁兹时一贯的恶毒，特朗普如此评价这位参议员，“他真是个了不得的对手。”他甚至有点同情克鲁兹，说他知道被残酷的失败击中会让人多么“不好过”。
Out of the 17 Republicans who ran for president this cycle, Mr. Cruz — a onetime ally of Mr. Trump’s — proved to be his strongest and most tenacious rival, winning 11 primaries and caucuses. But the first-term senator’s appeal among traditional conservatives was no match for Mr. Trump’s fiery and uncompromising vow to fight for the interests of average Americans who have lost faith in the country’s political leadership.
在参与本次大选周期角逐的17名共和党人中，一度成为特朗普盟友的克鲁兹最后被证明是他最强大和最坚韧的对手。克鲁兹一共赢得了11场初选和预选会。但这位处在第一任期的参议员对传统保守派的吸引力，完全抵不过特朗普的火爆言论和豪不妥协的作风。后者宣誓要为对美国政治领导层失去信心的普通美国人的利益而战。
Mr. Cruz, speaking to supporters in Indianapolis, said he could not fight on without “a viable path to victory.”
克鲁兹对他在印第安纳波利斯的支持者表示，没有“可行的取胜路径”，他无法继续战斗下去。
“It is extremely extraordinary that Trump will be the nominee for the G.O.P. this year — who saw this coming?” said Dewey M. Clayton, a professor of political science at the University of Louisville. “He has tapped into the mood of many disaffected voters who like his business success and straight talk. He is unapologetic, and many voters like this.”
“今年特朗普将成为共和党提名人，这是极不寻常的——有谁曾预料到这样的结局？”路易斯维尔大学(University of Louisville)政治学教授杜威·M·克莱顿(Dewey M. Clayton)反问。“他利用了很多不满的选民的情绪。这些人欣赏他在商业上的成功，喜欢他有话直说。他还表现得理直气壮，很多选民也喜欢这一点。”
As remarkable as Mr. Trump’s achievement is, his expected nomination also poses undeniable peril to the party he is poised to lead. Republican leaders, few of whom have fully embraced his candidacy, are watching him with great trepidation, for good reason.
尽管特朗普的成就令人瞩目，但他料将获得的提名也会给他准备领导的共和党构成无可否认的危险。共和党领导层没有多少人真正接受特朗普，他们怀着极大的不安注视着他，而这种担忧并非没有理由。
Mr. Trump starts the general election campaign with a still-unfurling roll of incendiary proposals and provocations that are the stuff of dreams for opposition researchers. He made his name in the last presidential campaign as the country’s most prominent birther, fueling debunked conspiracy theories that President Obama was not born in America; he has used hostile and hard-edged language about Hispanics, suggesting that Mexican migrants are rapists and murderers; and he has not backed off his proposal to ban all foreign Muslims from entering the United States, effectively creating a religious test for immigrants.
特朗普以一系列尚未完全呈现的煽动性提议和挑衅言论开启了大选的角逐。这些都是对方阵营的研究人员梦寐以求的素材。在上个大选周期中，他成功地让自己晋身为美国最知名的“出生地阴谋论者”，助长了有关奥巴马总统并非出生于美国的名不副实的阴谋理论；他用充满敌意的尖锐言辞谈论西语裔，表示墨西哥移民是强奸犯和杀人犯；他至今没有软化阻止所有海外穆斯林入境的提议，相当于要给美国移民设立一个宗教门槛。
No one is more eager to talk about those positions than Mrs. Clinton, who made clear on Tuesday that she wanted to sharpen her focus on Mr. Trump as soon as possible because the fight against him was likely to be bruising.
没人比克林顿更热衷于谈论特朗普的这些立场。她在周二明确表示，想尽快专注于同特朗普之间的角逐，因为那很可能是一场极为惨烈的争斗。
“I’m really focused on moving into the general election,” Mrs. Clinton said during an interview on MSNBC. “And I think that’s where we have to be, because we’re going to have a tough campaign against a candidate who will literally say or do anything. And we’re going to take him on at every turn on what’s really important to the people of our country.”
“我现在非常专注于向大选阶段进发，”克林顿在接受MSNBC采访时说。“我想我们必须这么做，因为我们将面临一场硬仗，要对付一个基本上什么话都说得出口、什么事都做得出来的对手。在每次讨论对于这个国家的民众什么才是最重要的东西时，我们都会跟他一争高下。”
Yet the Indiana results were an embarrassing reminder of her vulnerabilities: Only slightly more than half of Democrats voting Tuesday called Mrs. Clinton honest and trustworthy, according to early exit polls, a remarkably shaky assessment for the party’s likely nominee. After closing the gap with blue-collar white voters in parts of the Northeast last week, Mrs. Clinton lost them by 30 points in Indiana. She also again suffered with self-identified independents casting ballots in the Democratic contest: 73 percent backed Mr. Sanders.
然而，印第安纳州的初选结果尴尬地提醒着她的脆弱之处：初步的出口民调显示，在周二参与投票的民主党人中，只有略超半数的选民表示克林顿诚实可靠。对于很有可能获得该党总统提名的人来说，这是一个非常成问题的评价。上周在东北部一些州缩小自己在蓝领白人选民支持率方面的差距之后，克林顿在印第安纳州此类选民中的支持率却低了足足30个百分点。她还又一次在民主党内自认独立派的选民中失利：73%的人支持了桑德斯。
Mr. Sanders, speaking to reporters after winning Indiana, had some toughest words for Mrs. Clinton after a week when he toned down criticisms of her and shifted his focus to their policy differences.
赢得印第安纳州的胜利后，桑德斯在接受记者采访时对克林顿抛出了一些非常强硬的言辞。一周前，他曾减弱对她的批评，将重心转向谈论二人在政策上的差别。
“I understand that Secretary Clinton thinks that this campaign is over,” Mr. Sanders said. “I’ve got some bad news for her. Tonight we won a great victory in Indiana. Next week we are going to be in West Virginia. We think we have a real shot to win in that great state. And then we’re going to Kentucky and we’re going to Oregon. And we think we have a pretty good chance to win there as well.”
“我知道克林顿国务卿认为这场比赛已成定局，”桑德斯说。“我有些坏消息要告诉她。今晚，我在印第安纳州大获全胜。下周我将去往西弗吉尼亚。我们觉得自己在这个州有胜算。接着我们将前往肯塔基，前往俄勒冈。我们觉得自己在这两个州机会也不小。”
“We feel great about tonight not only in winning here in Indiana and accumulating some more delegates but also gaining the momentum we need to take us to the finish line,” he said, adding the he realized he faced an “uphill battle.”
“今晚我感觉很好，不仅仅因为我们在印第安纳取得了胜利，累积了更多代表的支持，还因为我们获得了足以支持我们走到终点的动力，”他说道，并表示他意识到自己面对的是一场“硬仗”。