WASHINGTON — One day this month, as the nation shuddered with fears of an Ebola outbreak and as American warplanes pounded Sunni militants in Syria, President Obama’s national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, invited a group of foreign policy experts to the White House Situation Room to hear their assessment of how the administration was performing.
华盛顿——本月某一天，当埃博拉疫情令美国胆颤，美国战机在叙利亚轰炸逊尼派武装分子的时候，奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)邀请了一些外交政策专家前往白宫局势研究室(Situation Room)，想听听他们对政府工作的看法。
She was peppered with critiques of the president’s Syria policies, as well as the White House’s repeated delays in releasing a national security strategy, a congressionally mandated document that sets out foreign policy goals. On that last point, Ms. Rice had a sardonic reply.
这些人批评了总统对叙利亚的政策，以及白宫对发布国家安全战略的一再拖延；国家安全战略是国会要求提交的一份文件，用来阐述外交政策目标。听到关于这件事的批评，赖斯做出了一个颇具嘲讽的回答。
“If we had put it out in February or April or July,” she said, according to two people who were in the room, “it would have been overtaken by events two weeks later, in any one of those months.”
根据两个在场者的说法，赖斯称：“如果我们在2月、4月和7月的随便哪个月提交它，它都会被两周后发生的事情挤到一边。”
At a time when the Obama administration is lurching from crisis to crisis — a new Cold War in Europe, a brutal Islamic caliphate in the Middle East and a deadly epidemic in West Africa, to name just the most obvious ones — it is not surprising that long-term strategy would take a back seat. But it raises inevitable questions about the ability of the president and his hard-pressed national security team to manage and somehow get ahead of the daily onslaught of events.
一个接一个的危机向奥巴马政府袭来——欧洲爆发了一场新的冷战，中东建立了一个残忍的伊斯兰哈里发国，西非出现一场致人死命的传染病疫情，这还是几个最明显的例子——在这样的时候，长期战略被挤到一边倒也不奇怪。但这不可避免地会引起人们的质疑：总统及其陷入被动的国家安全团队，是否有能力应对事件频发的日常工作，并多多少少地占取主动？
Early stumbles in the government’s handling of the Ebola crisis as well as its belated response to the Islamic State have fueled speculation that Mr. Obama may shake up his team, which is stocked with battle-tested but exhausted White House loyalists and cabinet members, like Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who are viewed as less cohesive than the “team of rivals” in Mr. Obama’s first cabinet. George W. Bush took that route after the bruising midterm elections in 2006, when he dismissed Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.
政府在应对埃博拉危机的早期出现了失误，而且对于伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的崛起迟迟没有做出反应，所以一些人已经在猜测，奥巴马可能会对团队进行重组，这个团队的成员包括久经沙场但筋疲力尽的白宫支持者和内阁成员，比如国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)。人们觉得，和奥巴马第一个内阁中的“对手团队”相比，这个团队的凝聚力比较小。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在2006年经过激烈的中期选举之后，也选择了那样的做法，当时他解除了国防部长唐纳德·H·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald H. Rumsfeld)的职务。
“There is an inflection point in every presidency, and this certainly is a logical one, if the president feels he might be better served by some replacements on his team,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat and a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
“每一个总统任期里都有一个拐点，如果奥巴马认为，换一个团队可以更好地为自己效力，那么这一个拐点无疑很合逻辑，”康涅狄格州民主党议员、参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)成员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)说。
While Mr. Blumenthal said the administration had borne up well under the circumstances, the scale and complexity of the problems “would exact a toll personally and professionally on any group.”
虽然布卢门撒尔表示，在如今的状况下，政府运作得还不错，但问题的规模和复杂性“会令任何团队蒙受个人和职业上的损失。”
There is little evidence that the president plans a wholesale shake-up. But he has already brought in new blood: Ron Klain, a former chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., to manage the response to Ebola, and Gen. John R. Allen, a former commander in Afghanistan, to marshal the coalition against the Islamic State.
几乎没有证据表明总统有全盘换血的打算。但他已经引入了新鲜血液：让前副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的幕僚长罗恩·克莱(Ron Klain)负责应对埃博拉疫情，让曾驻阿富汗的指挥官约翰·R·艾伦(John R.Allen)将军负责率领联盟打击伊斯兰国。
Mr. Obama is also leaning more than ever on his small circle of White House aides, who forged their relationships with him during his 2008 campaign and loom even larger in an administration without weighty voices like those of Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary, or Hillary Rodham Clinton, the former secretary of state.
奥巴马也比以往任何时候更加倚重白宫助手的小圈子，这些人在2008年竞选中与他建立了关系，而且具备了比以前更大的能量，因为在目前的团队里，缺乏前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)和前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)那样有分量的声音。
Over the Columbus Day weekend, the White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, traveled to the San Francisco home of Senator Dianne Feinstein, the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, to negotiate personally over redactions in a Senate report on the C.I.A.'s detention and interrogation policies after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
在哥伦布日(Columbus Day)的那个周末，白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)前往旧金山，到参议院情报委员会主席黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)的家中，与她进行私下会谈，讨论如何修订参议院对中央情报局(CIA)在“9·11”恐怖袭击之后采取的拘留和审讯政策的报告。
That Mr. McDonough would get involved in such an arcane matter puzzles some legislative aides on Capitol Hill, given the other demands on his time. But it testifies to how the president tends to hand delicate assignments to his most trusted advisers. Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel, meanwhile, are struggling to carve out a place in the administration and to penetrate the tightly knit circle around the president.
麦克多诺竟会参与这样一件神奇的事情，令美国国会一些立法助手感到困惑不解，毕竟其他一些需要麦克多诺处理的事情更重要。但此事证明了，总统是如何把一些微妙的任务交给他最信任的顾问的。与此同时，克里和哈格尔正在艰难地尝试在政府中开辟一块地方，并穿透总统身边严密的小圈子。
Mr. Kerry is vocal and forceful in internal debates, officials said, but he frequently gets out of sync with the White House in his public statements. White House officials joke that he is like the astronaut played by Sandra Bullock in the movie “Gravity,” somersaulting through space, untethered to the White House.
官员们说，在内部辩论中，克里会强有力地表达自己的意见，但在做公开声明的时候，克里经常与白宫脱节。白宫官员开玩笑说，他就像是桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)在影片《地心引力》中扮演的宇航员，在太空翻着筋斗，和白宫失去联系。
Aides to Mr. Kerry reject that portrait, saying he dials into White House meetings from the road and is heavily involved in the policy process. A long memo he wrote on the Islamic State, they said, has become the administration’s playbook for combating the group.
克里的助手否定了这种描述，他们说，克里在路上也会打电话参加白宫的会议，他深度参与了决策过程。助手们说，克里写的一篇关于伊斯兰国的长篇备忘录，已经成了政府打击该组织的指导方案。
Mr. Hagel has a different problem. A respected former senator, like Mr. Kerry, Mr. Hagel says little in policy meetings and has largely ceded the stage to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who officials said has won the confidence of Mr. Obama with his recommendations of military action against the Islamic State.
哈格尔的问题有所不同。他之前也和克里一样，是一位受人尊敬的参议员，但哈格尔在政策会议上很少说话，并在很大程度上把舞台让给了美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)，官员们说，邓普西提出的对伊斯兰国采取军事行动的建议，为他赢得了奥巴马的信任。
Defenders of Mr. Hagel attribute his reticence in meetings to fears that the details will leak into the news media, and say he is more vocal in one-on-one sessions with the president. They also insist that he is more assertive on policy than his reputation suggests, citing a sharply critical two-page memo that he sent to Ms. Rice last week, in which he warned that the administration’s Syria policy was in danger of unraveling in the near term because of its failure to clarify its intentions toward President Bashar al-Assad.
维护哈格尔的人称他在会议中保持沉默是因为担心相关细节会泄露给新闻媒体，并称他在与总统的一对一会议中直言不讳。他们还坚称，哈格尔在政策问题上比传说中强硬，称他上周发给赖斯一份两页长的备忘录，提出尖锐批评，他警告称美国政府的叙利亚政策可能会在短期内瓦解，因为这些政策没有说明美国对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的态度。
Mr. Hagel wrote that France, Turkey and other allies were reluctant to commit to military action in Syria. And he said that the United States would face a decision about how to respond if Mr. Assad’s troops attack rebels trained and equipped by the coalition.
哈格尔写道，法国、土耳其及其他盟友不愿在叙利亚开展军事行动。他表示，美国会面临一个抉择，即如果阿萨德的军队袭击联盟训练并武装的叛乱分子，美国该如何回应。
In separate interviews, Mr. McDonough and Ms. Rice said the president was satisfied with his cabinet. “Deciding policy is just one step,” Mr. McDonough said. “You need the secretaries to implement.”
在另一次采访中，麦克多诺和赖斯称总统对他的内阁很满意。“做出决策只是一个步骤，”麦克多诺说。“需要各位部长执行政策。”
To do that, however, Mr. Obama has decided that he also needs reinforcements like Mr. Klain and General Allen. Mr. Klain, aides said, is viewed as a potential replacement for John Podesta, the president’s counselor, or even Mr. McDonough, if he chooses to leave.
然而，为了实施政策，奥巴马判定他还需要克莱因和艾伦上将等人的帮助。助手们称，克莱因被视作总统顾问约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)的潜在接替者，如果麦克多诺选择离职，克莱因甚至有可能接替他。
But these outsiders, sometimes called czars, can cause their own problems. General Allen’s appointment as special envoy to the anti-Islamic State coalition antagonized General Dempsey, several officials said, because he worried that the retired general would stray onto the Pentagon’s turf.
但这些局外人——有时会被称为大佬——可能会导致其自身面临问题。几名官员表示，艾伦上将被任命为反伊斯兰国联盟的特使，此举惹恼了邓普西上将，因为他担心这名已经退休的上将会越界进入五角大楼的地盘。
“The title ‘czar’ carries with it the sense of all-knowing and all-powerful,” said Leon Fuerth, who was national security adviser to Vice President Al Gore and has written about management in the White House.
副总统阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)的国家安全顾问利昂· 富尔思(Leon Fuerth)说，“‘大佬’这个称号有种无所不知、无所不能的感觉。”他曾就白宫的管理撰写文章。
The steady expansion of the National Security Council, and its growing role in operations, poses another problem, said David Rothkopf, an official in the administration of President Bill Clinton who has written a history of the council. Mr. Rothkopf attributed the recent ill will between the administration and the Israeli government — typified by an American official’s anonymous disparagement of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu — in part to the security council’s increased involvement in diplomacy, and not just policy making.
比尔·克林顿总统(President Bill Clinton)时期的政府官员戴维·罗特科普夫(David Rothkopf)表示，国家安全委员会（National Security Council，简称NSC）稳步扩展，在运作方面发挥越来越大的作用，这带来了另一个问题。罗特科普夫曾写过该委员会的发展历史。最近美国政府与以色列政府互生敌意——美国官员匿名贬低以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，对此，罗特科普夫称部分原因在于NSC更多地参与外交，而不仅仅参与政策制定。
“All N.S.C.'s are tempted to meddle in operational issues, but it not only undercuts the deployed officials, it keeps the White House from focusing where it should: on bigger, strategic issues,” said Dennis C. Blair, who served as the director of national intelligence until 2010, when he was forced out after feuding with other intelligence officials.
丹尼斯·C·布莱尔(Dennis C. Blair)说，“NSC的所有举措都是为了干预运作问题，但该委员会不仅削弱调配官员的力量，还使白宫远离它应该关注的重点：更重要的战略问题。”布莱尔曾担任国家情报事务总监，直到2010年，当时他在与其他情报官员产生争执后，被迫离职。
Mr. Obama is also dealing with a curse of second-term presidents: an exodus of talented staff members. William J. Burns, a deputy secretary of state who had frequently briefed Mr. Obama on nuclear talks with Iran, retired last week. Antony J. Blinken, Ms. Rice’s principal deputy and an influential voice on Ukraine, is in line for Mr. Burns’s post, but the White House is uncertain about how to replace him.
奥巴马还要应对各位连任总统遇到的魔咒：大批优秀的工作人员的离开。副国务卿威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)于上周退休，他曾经常向奥巴马汇报伊朗核谈判的相关情况。赖斯的首席副手安东尼·J·布林肯(Antony J. Blinken)在乌克兰问题上颇具影响力，他即将接任伯恩斯的职位，但白宫还不确定替代他的人选。