WASHINGTON — Even if searchers are fortunate enough to spot floating debris in the ocean west of Australia from the missing Malaysia Airlines jet, it would be only a modest step in locating the rest of the Boeing 777, according to oceanographers and recovery experts. And only then could they dig into the question of why it crashed.
华盛顿——海洋学家和回收事物专家们说，即使搜寻人员在澳大利亚西部的大洋里找到了马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)失踪客机的残骸，也只是迈出了一小步，因为还需要找到这架波音777飞机的其余部分。而只有到了那时，他们才能深入调查飞机坠毁的原因。
Almost two weeks after a crash, there is certain to be less of the debris on the surface, and what remains is more dispersed and farther from the clues that investigators really want, in the wreckage that has sunk beneath the waves, experts say.
专家们说，坠机将近两周后，海洋表面漂浮的碎片肯定少了，留在表面的碎片也变得更加分散，距离调查人员真正想要得到的线索也更远了。那些线索存在于淹没在波涛之下的残骸之中。
The delay in finding any wreckage on the surface will “create a cone of uncertainty, which is going to be bigger with time,” said Luca Centurioni, a researcher at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego and the director of the Global Drifter Program there. “The more time goes by, the more difficult it will be to try to go back to the point of impact with the ocean.”
寻找海面上残骸过程中的耽搁“引发的不确定性会随着时间的推移不断增大”，圣迭戈斯克里普斯海洋研究所(Scripps Institution of Oceanography)的研究员、该机构全球漂流浮标计划(the Global Drifter Program) 主任卢卡·琴图廖尼(Luca Centurioni)说，“时间拖得越久，找到飞机与海洋的撞击点就越难”。
The amount of debris and degree of dispersion would depend in part on the circumstances of a crash. “A gentle landing on a smooth sea with mild currents keeps the debris field more intact,” David G. Gallo, director of special projects at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, said in an email. “A high-velocity impact or midair breakup on a stormy sea will scatter objects much more.”
残骸的数量和分散程度一定程度上会取决于坠机时的状况。伍兹霍尔海洋研究所特殊项目主任戴维·G·加洛(David G. Gallo)在一封邮件中说，“如果飞机徐徐降落在水流平缓、风平浪静的水面上，残骸区会更完整。高速撞击海面，或者在半空中解体，加上海面波涛汹涌，会让碎片更加分散。”
In the case of Air France Flight 447 — which came down in the equatorial Atlantic in June 2009 while traveling from Rio de Janeiro to Paris — searchers found debris after five days, and experts estimated that the impact site was 15 miles away. It turned out to be 30 miles away, and in a different direction, said Michael J. Purcell, the principal engineer at Woods Hole, who spent months on that search. If the Air France case is any guide, Malaysia Airlines debris could have drifted hundreds of miles.
在法国航空(Air France Flight)447航班空难的例子中——这架飞机2009年6月从里约热内卢飞往巴黎途中坠入了赤道附近的大西洋——搜寻者在飞机失踪五天后发现了残骸，专家当时估计，撞击地点在15英里（约合24公里）之外。伍兹霍尔海洋研究所的首席工程师迈克尔·J·珀塞尔(Michael J. Purcell)参与了几个月的搜寻工作，他说，结果发现，撞击地点实际上距残骸发现处30英里，而且方向也不一样。参照法航的例子，马航失踪客机的残骸可能已经漂移了数百英里。
Median ocean current speed is about a foot per second, said Mr. Centurioni, which comes to about 16 miles a day. The tropics are a bit slower; the Air France wreckage was moving at about 10 miles per day, Mr. Purcell said. Average speed at the site of any Malaysia Airlines crash would depend on where that airliner went down. Some debris would be pushed more by wind than current, and the wind could be moving in the same direction as the current, or against it.
琴图廖尼说，洋流速度的中值大约是每秒1英尺（约合0.3米），约一天16英里。热带的洋流速度稍慢一点；珀塞尔说，法航失事客机残骸的移动速度是每天10英里左右。马航飞机若坠毁，飞机残骸移动的平均速度要取决于坠落的具体位置。部分残骸可能更多是在风而不是洋流的作用下移动的，而风向既可能与洋流方向一致，也可能与之相反。
Some parts of airplanes, like seat back cushions, are designed to float. Aluminum parts with air trapped inside will tend to sink in rough seas. Planes like the Boeing 777, the type in the Malaysia flight, or the Airbus A330, in the case of the Air France crash, make major use of composite materials, and some of those are in the form of a honeycomb using light materials with air trapped inside. Those parts will float for some time, as the tail of Air France Flight 447 did, and the tail of the American Airlines A300 jet that crashed shortly after takeoff from Kennedy International Airport in November 2001.
部分飞机部件，比如座椅靠垫，其设计意图就是让它们能漂浮在水面。包裹着空气的铝制部件则容易在波涛汹涌的海面下沉。像马来西亚这个航班的波音777，或是法航坠机事件中的空客A330这样的飞机用的主要是复合材料，部分复合材料采用的是蜂窝式的设计，使用的是内部注入了空气的轻质材料。这些部件会漂浮一段时间，就像法航447航班和美国航空(American Airlines)A300客机的机尾那样。2001年11月，美国航空的一架A300客机从肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport)起飞不久后坠毁。
The searchers, flying in various aircraft but notably in airplanes designed to hunt enemy submarines, are using infrared scanners, which detect minute temperature differences between the water and debris, as well as radar. They make low passes at hundreds of miles per hour.
搜索人员驾驶着各种飞机，尤其是用来搜索敌方潜艇的飞机，使用了红外扫描仪和雷达。红外扫描仪可以检测海水和残骸之间细微的温度差。这些飞机以每小时几百英里的速度在低空飞行。
If the airplane searches locate floating debris, and oceanographers calculate where it originated, the next step would be to use robot submarines to scrutinize the ocean floor. Mr. Purcell said the Woods Hole drone submarines, like the Remus 6000, travel about four miles per hour, covering a little less than a mile in width if the sea floor is smooth. They were not built with this purpose in mind. (In fact, this week the Remus 6000 was gathering clam larvae, Mr. Purcell said.)
如果飞机搜索找到了漂浮的残骸，海洋学家也计算出残骸是从哪里漂过来的，下一步就是用水下机器人仔细查看海床。珀塞尔表示，如果海底平整，伍兹霍尔的无人潜水艇，比如Remus 6000的移动速度约为每小时4英里，它在宽度上覆盖的范围略小于1英里。起初建造这些潜艇并不是为了这种目的。（珀塞尔说，实际上，Remus 6000本周一直在收集蛤蜊的幼虫。）
In search work, the submarines follow a pattern like a lawn mower, laboriously tracing back and forth. The search area is now over two million square nautical miles, but would have to be narrowed to about 5,000 square miles before it would be sensible to use the submarines, he said.
在搜索工作中，潜艇遵循的方式和割草机相似，费力地来回探查。他说，目前的搜索区域超过200万平方海里，但若要有效使用潜艇，搜索区域必须缩小到大约5000平方海里。
The cockpit voice recorder, important in any investigation and crucial when a hijacking or other crime is suspected, would probably not be useful, one investigator said, because it is a two-hour loop, and the plane flew for hours after leaving its planned route. The boxes originally captured 30 minutes, on a loop of audiotape, but in 1999 the Federal Aviation Administration endorsed the idea of going to two hours. The recording is now on microchips.
在任何调查中，驾驶舱语音记录仪都很重要。在疑似发生劫机或其他一些犯罪活动时，驾驶舱语音记录仪甚至起着决定性作用。但一名调查人员说，在这起事件中，驾驶舱记录仪可能帮不上忙，因为记录仪只能记录两个小时的语音，而飞机在离开预定航线后飞行了数小时。这种记录仪最初是把声音录在录音磁带上，只能录30分钟，但在1999年，联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)赞成把录音时间增至两个小时。现在，录音是被保存在微型芯片上。