It has become a reflexive pledge, often half-joking, after an election: Worried about the next president? Move to another country.
一场选举之后，这已经成了条件反射一般的誓言，而且往往是半开玩笑式的：对下一任总统感到担心吗？那就搬到另一个国家去吧。
After the news of Donald J. Trump’s victory in the presidential election was confirmed early Wednesday, many Americans apparently considered doing just that.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)当选美国总统的消息于周三早些时候确认之后，许多美国人显然在考虑这样做。
One likely destination was north. Late at night, Canada’s citizenship and immigration website crashed as it was flooded with interest.
北方是一个可能的目的地。深夜时分，因为感兴趣的人太多，加拿大的公民资格与移民网站崩溃了。
Remi Lariviere, a spokesman for the Canadian immigration agency, confirmed Wednesday morning that the cause was “a significant increase in the volume of traffic.”
加拿大移民局的发言人雷米·拉里维埃(Remi Lariviere)于周三上午证实，崩溃原因是“访问量大幅增加”。
By then, the site was taking about half a minute to load but was accessible shortly before 8 a.m. Eastern. “Move to Canada” remained among the top trending search topics on Google.
当时，该网站需要大约半分钟的时间才能加载，但在东部时间上午快到8点的时候便恢复了正常。“移居加拿大”(Move to Canada)仍然是谷歌热门搜索主题之一。
There is no way, of course, to be sure how serious these queries are. And experts point out that anyone seeking refuge in another country would be hard-pressed to escape the global effects of a new American administration or outlook on the world.
当然，没有办法确定这些查询到底有多么认真。专家指出，任何想要逃往另一个国家的人都很难摆脱美国新一届政府的全球影响，或是置身于这个世界的前景之外。
Stephen J. Farnsworth, a co-author of the 2013 book “The Global President: International Media and the U.S. Government” and a professor of political science at the University of Mary Washington, said that escaping to Canada would not shield you from the influence of a President Trump.
2013年的《全球总统：国际媒体和美国政府》(The Global President: International Media and the U.S. Government)一书的合著者、玛丽·华盛顿大学(University of Mary Washington)的政治学教授史蒂芬·J·法恩斯沃思(Stephen J. Farnsworth)说，逃到加拿大也不能令你摆脱特朗普总统的影响。
“America’s global reach being what it is, the impacts that America has in the world will also follow you wherever you go,” he said. “Decisions that the U.S. makes with respect to NATO policy, for example, would be part of your experience if you move to say, a NATO country.”
“美国在全球范围的影响就是这样，无论你走到哪里，美国对世界的冲击都会跟随着你，”他说。“比如，如果你移居到某个北约国家，美国对北约的政策便会同你的生活体验密切相关。”
(Canada is one of the founding members of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.)
（加拿大是北约的创始成员国之一 。）
Of course, many of those exploring their options would be fleeing not just the new president and his policies, but also the America that voted for him. And Canada was not the only country people appeared interested in checking out.
当然，许多研究这些选择的人们不仅想要逃离新总统和他的政策，而且还想逃离这个投票选举他成为总统的美国。加拿大不是人们感兴趣的唯一一个符合要求的国家。
Immigration officials in New Zealand said that its website dealing with residency and student visas had received over 1,500 registrations from American citizens in November, according to Reuters, more than 50 percent the usual amount.
据路透社报道，新西兰移民官员表示，11月，该国处理定居签证和学生签证的网站已经接到了超过1500份来自美国的登记申请，比平时的数量超出了50％。
Many people who already have or are close to achieving dual citizenship in other countries and the United States said they were considering staying in, or leaving for, their alternate homelands.
许多已经拥有或即将取得美国和其他国家双重国籍的人说，他们正在考虑是否留在自己的另一个祖国，或是移居那里。
And some of those without citizenship considered returning to one of the many nations — including Israel, China and Ireland — that offers “right of return,” an easy path to citizenship for those with some form of heritage related to that country.
一些没有其他国家公民身份的人考虑返回包括以色列、中国和爱尔兰在内提供“返回权”的国家，与该国有某种形式的历史传承的人可以方便地取得该国公民身份。
(For Jews, moving to Israel is known as making Aliyah.)
（对于犹太人来说，移民以色列被称为“阿利亚”[Aliyah]。）
Julian Edward Toles, 27, an essayist living with his girlfriend in Barcelona, said that while he had already started to look into the benefits of Spanish citizenship, which he could obtain were he and his girlfriend to marry, he was now thinking “much more seriously” about getting residency rights.
朱利安·爱德华·托雷斯(Julian Edward Toles)今年27岁，是一个论说文作家，和女友一起生活在巴塞罗那。如果二人结婚，他就可以成为西班牙公民。他表示自己虽然已经开始研究成为西班牙公民的好处，但他现在开始“更为认真”地考虑获得居留权的事情。
“Trump and his promises to uphold ‘law and order’ frankly scare me,” Mr. Toles, who is black, said in a Facebook message. “I fear for my personal safety as the worst of what we’ve seen from his campaign becomes a daily reality.”
“特朗普和他对维护‘法律和秩序’的承诺真的让我害怕，”托雷斯是黑人，他通过Facebook信息说。“我担心自己的人身安全，因为我们从他的选举活动中所看到的最糟糕的事情变成了日常的现实。”
Oscar Barajas, a 36-year-old with Mexican citizenship living in Chicago, said that while he was about to get his American citizenship, he “was not so happy to join after Trump’s election.”
今年36岁的奥斯卡·巴拉哈斯(Oscar Barajas)是生活在芝加哥的墨西哥公民，他说，虽然自己即将获得美国公民身份，但他“在特朗普当选后加入美国就没那么开心了”。
“I don’t plan to leave because Trump won, but I can say I at least would be fortunate to go back to my country if he makes the U.S. a place where I wouldn’t like to start a family,” he said. "I know so many people who are noncitizen and are scared about this situation.”
“我不打算因为特朗普赢了就离开，但我可以说，如果他让美国成为一个我不想安家的地方，我至少能够幸运地回到我自己的国家，”他说。“我知道许多没有公民身份的人，害怕如今这种局面。”
Mr. Farnsworth said, “Every four years, people talk about leaving the U.S., but it’s really striking how few do.”
法恩斯沃思说，“每隔四年，人们都在谈论离开美国，但惹人注意的是，这样做的人很少。”
It is not necessarily easy to become a Canadian citizen, despite the country’s reputation for niceness. The country is in search of university students and highly skilled workers; for those who do not fit into those neat categories, it would be far more difficult to find a place in the country.
尽管加拿大享有亲切好客的美誉，但要成为加拿大公民并不一定就容易。该国想要的是大学生和高技术工人；对于不符合这些类别的人来说，在该国取得一席之地要困难得多。
“I’m often amazed by people who describe themselves as patriotic being so willing to move away if they don’t like the outcome of a presidential election,” Mr. Farnsworth said. “The consolation for losers every four years is the recognition that there is no permanent majority and no permanent minority in American politics.”
“我经常感到惊讶，有些人自称爱国者，一旦不喜欢总统选举的结果，却又那么想要离开这个国家，”法恩斯沃思说。“对于每隔四年就会出现的失败者们的安慰，就是认识到在美国政治中没有永远的多数，也没有永远的少数。”
If you don’t like the political outcome, it’ll probably change in two years or four, he added. “And then a whole ’nother set of people can talk about moving to Canada.”
如果你不喜欢某一政治结果，它可能会在两年或四年内改变，他补充说道。“然后另外一大群人就可以开始讨论移居加拿大了。”