The Canadian actors Paul Gross and Martha Burns had long fantasized about buying a place in New York, but it took an old clothing factory on Orchard Street to convince them.
加拿大演员保罗·格罗斯(Paul Gross)和玛莎·伯恩斯(Martha Burns)长久以来一直梦想着在纽约买房，结果，他们相中的却是果园街(Orchard Street)上的一座老服装厂。
“We instantly fell in love with its look and feel,” Ms. Burns said of the 2,400-square-foot loft space, which they bought in 2008 for $2.2 million. “Even its smell. It was a New York we had never known.’
“我们一下子就爱上了它的样子和质感，”伯恩斯在谈到这套2400平方英尺（约合223平方米）的跃层空间时说，他们在2008年花220万美元（约合人民币1347万元）把它买了下来，“就连它的气息也喜欢，它对我们来说，是完全陌生的、纽约的气息。”
The wood floors still showed the dents made by sewing machine treadles nearly a century earlier; the tin ceiling was original and looked it; much of the plumbing was exposed. That history was what appealed to Mr. Gross, who was amazed that so much of the surrounding Lower East Side neighborhood remained unchanged as well.
木地板上依然有缝纫机踏板留下的凹痕，这是近一个世纪以前的印记了；锡质天花板也是原有的陈设，看起来风华依旧；许多管道暴露在外面。这种历史感正是吸引格罗斯的地方，他惊喜地发现，周边有许多下东区的社区，也依然保留着原本的风貌。
“The tailors still run after me when I go out,” he said jokingly.
“我出门的时候，身后依然追着一群裁缝，”他开玩笑道。
And at a time when they were dealing with the prospect of an empty nest in Toronto, that kind of stability held a certain appeal. So did the location.
当时他们在多伦多的家即将人去楼空，纽约这套住宅带给人的稳定感，就具有了一定吸引力。房子的地理位置也是。
The couple’s daughter, Hannah, who is now 23, had just left to study at New York University, and their son, Jack, now 19, would soon be going away to school in New York, too (he is a second-year student at Columbia College).
夫妇俩的女儿、现年23岁的汉娜(Hannah)当时就要离家去纽约大学(New York University)就读了；他们的儿子、现年19岁的杰克也要去纽约上学（他是哥伦比亚学院[Columbia College]二年级的学生）。
“The loft became a way of us staying together,” said Mr. Gross, 54, who played opposite Kim Cattrall in the recent Broadway revival of “Private Lives,” although he and Ms. Burns, 56, are probably best known for their roles on “Slings & Arrows,” a Canadian television series about a fictional Shakespearean company.
“这套跃层公寓成了我们一家人相聚的纽带，”54岁的格罗斯说。他最近在百老汇重排的喜剧《私生活》(Private Lives)中和金·凯特罗尔(Kim Cattrall)演对手戏。不过，他和56岁的伯恩斯最出名的作品或许是《吊索和箭头》(Slings & Arrows)，一部加拿大的本土电视剧，讲的是一家虚构的莎士比亚公司的故事。
But traditionalism only goes so far: After a couple of years of living there, the couple had to face the reality that the makeshift kitchen and bathroom weren’t functional and the general dilapidation of the space was dispiriting. Suchi Reddy, the designer they hired to make the loft more livable, had done a modern renovation of another space in the building, but that wasn’t what they had in mind.
不过，传统主义也就只能走这么远了：夫妇俩在这里住了两年之后，不得不面对一个事实：临时厨房和浴室根本不好用，而且这里的破败程度也令人沮丧。为了使这套单间公寓更加宜居，他们雇佣了一位名叫苏基·雷迪(Suchi Reddy)的设计师。雷迪为楼里另一套房子做过现代化装修，但那不是他们心里想要的。
As Ms. Reddy put it, the loft “needed a gut renovation, but they wanted everything to stay exactly as it was.”
正如雷迪所说，这套公寓“需要彻底大修，但是他们希望所有的东西都完全维持原样”。
The first step was replacing the plumbing and wiring, and Ms. Reddy made sure the contractor moved slowly and carefully to preserve the existing surfaces and materials.
第一步是更换管道布线。雷迪确保承包商慢慢施工，以小心保护原有的表面装饰和材料。
To maintain the sense of authenticity, Ms. Reddy exaggerated some of the original features of the space, adding more than a foot to the height of four of the windows. She also had the brick walls and tin ceiling meticulously patched and cleaned, exposed the old iron beams running down the center of the ceiling and repaired floorboards to eliminate creaking.
为保持其原真感，雷迪对室内装潢的某些原有特征进行了夸大，将窗户中的四扇加高了1英尺（约合30厘米）多。她还精心修补、清洁了砖墙和锡质天花板，露出了横贯天花板中央的铁质横梁，同时维修了地板，补上裂纹。