QUITO, Ecuador — The strongest earthquake to strike Ecuador in decades left the Andean nation traumatized on Sunday, with collapsed buildings in a swath of destruction stretching hundreds of miles.
厄瓜多尔基多——厄瓜多尔遭受数十年来最强的地震袭击，令这个位于安第斯山脉的国家蒙受巨大损失。周日，倒塌的建筑物绵延数百英里。
At least 246 people were killed and 2,527 injured, mostly in the northwestern coastal area of Manabí, the government said.
该国政府通报，地震造成至少246人死亡、2527人受伤，主要来自厄瓜多尔西北部沿海的马纳维省。
President Rafael Correa cut short a visit to Europe and declared a national emergency after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday night, shaking the central coast. The effects could be felt in the capital, Quito, and into parts of Peru and Colombia.
地震于周六晚间发生，震级为7.8级，直达中部海岸地区。总统拉斐尔·科雷亚(Rafael Correa)缩短了访问欧洲的行程，宣布全国进入紧急状态。厄瓜多尔首都基多、邻国秘鲁和哥伦比亚的部分地区有震感。
Portoviejo, the provincial capital of Manabí, and Pedernales, a resort town, appeared to have sustained the most damage, with about 370 buildings destroyed.
马纳维省省会波托维耶霍与度假小城佩德纳莱斯遭受的损失似乎最为严重，大约有370座建筑物被毁。
Viviana Baquezea, 34, a florist, was driving back to her home in Portoviejo, accompanied by her parents and an employee, when the earthquake struck. They were met by a scene of destruction.
地震来袭的时候，34岁的花商薇薇安娜·巴奎兹(Viviana Baquezea)正开车返回波托维耶霍的居所，同行的还有她的父母及一名员工。他们目睹了灾害现场。
“It looks like a war zone,” Ms. Baquezea said by telephone from Portoviejo. “It’s incredible what was happened to us — that our city is destroyed and we’re experiencing such anguish and pain.”
“看上去就像是打过仗，”巴奎兹在波托维耶霍通过电话接受采访。“发生在我们身上的事情难以置信——我们的城市被摧毁了，我们正在经历痛苦和煎熬。”
“We don’t have food or water, there are no supermarkets, and we’re surviving with what we had in our homes,” she added.
“我们没有食物和水，没有超市，靠着家里仅存的东西维生，”她说。
José Vaca, a television producer for OromarTV, said the seconds in which the earth refused to stay still seemed to last forever.
OromarTV的电视制片人何塞·巴卡(José Vaca)称，地震发生的那段时间似乎持续了很久。
“We were preparing to transmit a local football game when everything started to shake and the people fled in panic,” he said of a game in Portoviejo. “I had to to avoid being crushed by the people. I have some scrapes. But what I see around me is really terrible, startling and very sad.”
“我们正准备转播一场本地的足球比赛，结果所有东西都开始晃动起来，人们仓皇逃离，”他说的是波托维耶霍的一场比赛。“我不得不防着被人挤倒。身上擦伤了几处。但我看到周围的情景真是很可怕，令人震惊，非常悲惨。”
Ecuador has a history of destructive earthquakes, but the one on Saturday, which by some accounts lasted more than a minute, is believed to have been one of the most powerful since the 1970s. Some geologists said its force was 20 times greater than the deadly earthquake that struck southern Japan early Saturday.
厄瓜多尔以前也遭遇过不少严重的地震灾害，但是上周六发生的这次，据信是1970年代以来威力最大的地震之一。一些人说它的持续时间超过了一分钟。有地质学家认为，它的威力比日本南部周六凌晨经历的强震大20倍。
The quake had a depth of nearly 12 miles. Several aftershocks, some as strong as magnitude 5.6, followed. The earthquake’s center was 16 miles southeast of Muisne, Ecuador, the United States Geological Survey said.
这次地震的震源深度近12英里（约合20公里），之后发生了多次余震，有几次高达5.6级。美国地质调查局(The United States Geological Survey)称，震中位于厄瓜多尔穆伊斯内东南16英里处。
About 4,600 members of the National Police and 10,400 members of the armed forces were mobilized as part of the emergency response. Hundreds of doctors, health professionals and rescue workers were heading toward the hardest-hit areas.
该国派出大约4600名警员、1.04万名武装部队人员参与应急行动。数以百计的医生、医务人员和救援人员正在向受灾最严重的地区进发。