LONDON — Ecuador announced Tuesday that it had cut off Julian Assange’s access to the internet in his exile in the country’s embassy in London, making it clear that it feared the tiny country was being sucked into an effort to “interfere in electoral processes” in the United States by the activities of the founder of WikiLeaks.
伦敦——周二，厄瓜多尔宣布，它已切断在该国伦敦大使馆流亡的朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)的互联网接入，表明这个小国担心自己正被卷入维基解密(WikiLeaks)创始人“干涉”美国大选的活动。
The announcement came a day after WikiLeaks said that Assange’s connection to the internet had been severed shortly after the organization published speeches that Hillary Clinton gave to Goldman Sachs, the global investment firm. The transcripts, the latest in a series of disclosures, appear to have come from the hacked email account of John Podesta, the chairman of her campaign and a White House chief of staff when Clinton’s husband served as president.
这项声明宣布前一天，维基解密称，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在全球投资公司高盛(Goldman Sachs)的多次讲话内容被该组织公布后不久，阿桑奇的互联网连接已被切断。这些对话实录是一系列披露信息的最新一批，似乎来自约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)被黑客攻击的电子邮件账户。波德斯塔是希拉里·克林顿竞选团队的主席，也是她丈夫任总统期间的一位白宫幕僚长。
The statement clearly sought to separate Ecuador from the decision by WikiLeaks to publish Podesta’s emails and, before those, emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and other organizations.
这项声明显然旨在把厄瓜多尔与维基解密的决定撇开关系，包括公布波德斯塔的邮件以及之前窃自民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)等组织的邮件。
Only hours before the Ecuador’s announcement, WikiLeaks had charged that Secretary of State John Kerry had quietly urged the Ecuadorean government, in a meeting late last month, to stop Assange from publishing the emails or interfering in the election. The State Department issued a statement declaring that the reports were “simply untrue. Period.”
就在厄瓜多尔发布声明几小时前，维基解密指责国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在上月月底的一次会晤上暗中敦促厄瓜多尔政府，要其阻止阿桑奇公布这些电子邮件或插手这次选举。国务院发布了一个声明，表示这份报告“完全不实”。
Ecuador said that it was not evicting Assange from its embassy, where he sought asylum in 2012. It said that its “temporary restriction” of internet services to Assange “does not prevent the WikiLeaks organization from carrying out its journalistic activities.”
厄瓜多尔称，该国不会驱逐2012年来到该国使馆寻求庇护的阿桑奇。该国还称，目前对阿桑奇使用互联网服务所采取的“临时限制”，“并没有阻止维基解密组织开展新闻活动。”
But it was clearly intended to keep the Ecuadorean Embassy from being the control center for that leaking operation.
但是厄瓜多尔显然希望避免该国使馆成为维基解密组织的指挥中心。
“The government of Ecuador respects the principle of nonintervention in the affairs of other countries,” it said, “and it does not interfere in the electoral processes in support of any candidate in particular.”
“厄瓜多尔政府尊重不干涉他国事务原则，”声明说，“政府并未介入选举进程并支持某位候选人。”
None of this action, experts inside and outside the U.S. government say, is likely to slow the flow of leaked emails. Those emails are routed through servers around the globe.
美国政府内外的专家们都说，这一行动丝毫无助于延缓邮件泄露的速度。这些邮件是从世界各地的服务器上发送的。
Assange is the subject of an arrest warrant in Sweden, which wanted to question him about allegations of rape and sexual abuse dating to 2010.
瑞典曾对阿桑奇发布逮捕令，以便就2010年的强暴与性侵指控对他进行问讯。