Think back to the wars of the 1990s in the former Yugoslavia, with their profusion of names that are difficult to pronounce and acts that are painful to recall: the massacres at Brcko and Srebrenica, the bombing of bread lines in Sarajevo, the destruction of Mostar’s 400-year-old bridge.
回想一下20世纪90年代发生于前南斯拉夫的战争。那些纷繁、难读的名字和回忆起来令人感到痛苦的事件：布尔奇科与斯雷布雷尼察大屠杀、轰炸萨拉热窝排队领救济品的队伍、莫斯塔尔有400年历史的古桥被炸毁。
None of these appear in Téa Obreht’s first novel, “The Tiger’s Wife,” yet in its pages she brings their historic and human context to luminous life. With fables and allegories, as well as events borrowed from the headlines, she illustrates the complexities of Balkan history, unearthing patterns of suspicion, superstition and everyday violence that pervade the region even in times of peace. Reaching back to World War II, and then to wars that came before, she reveals the continuity beneath the clangor.
这些并没有出现在泰雅·奥布雷特（Téa Obreht）的第一部长篇小说《虎妻》（The Tiger's Wife）中。但在书中她把这些事件的历史和人物背景写得非常鲜活。她用传说和寓言，以及从头条新闻信手拈来的事件，阐明了巴尔干半岛历史的复杂性，披露了哪怕是在和平时期也会弥漫在这一地区的怀疑、迷信和日常暴力。她追溯到第二次世界大战，以及在那之前爆发的战争，揭示了铿锵声背后的连续性。
A metaphor for the author’s achievement can be found in her tale of Luka, a dreamy, brooding butcher’s son from a mountain village called Galina. A decade after World War I, Luka leaves Galina and walks 300 miles to the river port of Sarobor, where he hopes to master the gusla, a single-stringed Balkan folk instrument. Arriving there, he finds that gusla music is nearly forgotten, overtaken by rollicking modern tunes played by lusty, boisterous bands. Still, he seeks out old men who know the traditional songs, falls under the spell of the “throbbing wail of their voices winding through tales remembered or invented” and acquires their art. Although his gift is for lyrics rather than music, “there are those who say that any man who heard Luka play the gusla, even in wordless melody, was immediately moved to tears.” When a woman asks why he doesn’t prefer an instrument with a greater number of strings, he responds, “Fifty strings sing one song, but this single string knows a thousand stories.”
可以从她讲述的卢卡的故事中看到作者的成就。卢卡来自一个叫盖利纳的山村，一个神情恍惚、沮丧的屠夫之子。第一次世界大战结束十年后，卢卡离开盖利纳，步行300英里，抵达内河港口萨拉波。他想在那里学习弹奏古斯勒琴——这是巴尔干半岛民乐中的一种单弦乐器。到了那里之后，他发现，古斯勒琴音乐几乎已经被人遗忘，取而代之的是强壮、喧闹的乐队成员演奏的欢快现代乐曲。他还是找到了一些会传统歌曲的老人，这些老人哼唱一些或口耳相传或自己创作的故事，卢卡迷上了"他们嗓音中颤动的呜咽"，并掌握了他们的技艺。虽然他的天才在于写词而非谱曲，但“听过卢卡弹奏古斯勒琴的人，哪怕听的是没有词的曲调，也会马上感动落泪"。一位妇女问他，为何不是更喜欢琴弦更多的乐器，他回答说："五十根弦能弹出一首歌，儿这一根弦便知道上千个故事。”
The principal collector of Obreht’s multiplicity of stories is her narrator, Natalia Stefanovic, a young doctor who lives with her mother, grandmother and grandfather in an unnamed Balkan city early in the 21st century. Natalia likes to see herself as somebody with an edge: too rational to be cowed by old-fashioned superstitions, too modern for corny old-fashioned folk music. She prefers Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan and Johnny Cash.
小说作者奥布雷特的多重故事借由娜塔莉亚·斯蒂芬诺维奇（Natalia Stefanovic）之口讲述。她是一位年轻的医生，在21世纪初跟她的母亲、外婆、外公一起生活在一个不知名的巴尔干城市。娜塔莉亚认为自己比他人优越：太理性而不会被老式迷信吓到，太现代而不喜欢粗俗过时的民乐。她更喜欢布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀（Bruce Springsteen）、鲍勃·迪伦（Bob Dylan）和约翰尼·卡什 （Johnny Cash）。
As a little girl, Natalia adored her grandfather, a respected doctor and professor, and tagged along on his regular visits to the zoo, which was formerly a sultan’s fortress. “Past the aviary where the sharp-eared owls sleep,” they would walk to the moat where tigers loped, their “stripe-lashed shoulders rolling.” There she would listen, rapt, as her grandfather spoke of a girl he once knew who was known as the “tiger’s wife.” At the time, Natalia thought this was a fairy tale. After all, her grandfather always carried a copy of Kipling’s “Jungle Book” in his breast pocket. To his granddaughter, he was a fount of fantasy, her own private bard. In “The Tiger’s Wife,” Obreht weaves the old man’s richly colored reminiscences like silk ribbons through the spare frame of Natalia’s modern coming-of-age, a coming-of-age that coincides, as her grandfather’s had, with a time of political upheaval.
小时候，娜塔莉亚崇拜她的外公，他是一个很受尊敬的医生和教授。娜塔莉经常跟外公一起去动物园参观，那个动物园以前是一个苏丹的堡垒。“走过耳朵灵敏的猫头鹰睡觉的大鸟笼，”他们会走向老虎在那里飞奔的壕沟，它们“带花纹的肩膀起起伏伏”。在那里，她外公说到一个他以前认识的被称为"老虎的妻子"的女孩时，她全神贯注地听着。当时，娜塔莉亚以为那是一则神话故事。毕竟，她的外公总是在他胸前的口袋里装着一本吉普林（Kipling）的《丛林之书》（ “Jungle Book”）。在他外孙女的心目中，这位祖父是幻想的源泉、她专享的吟游诗人。在小说《虎妻》中，奥布雷特把这位老人丰富多彩的回忆像丝线一样织入娜塔莉亚现时代空白的框架中。她的时代跟她外公的时代一样，刚好是一段政治动荡的时光。
When Natalia is a teenager, war returns to the Balkans. The zoo closes, and a curfew is imposed. Natalia and her friends immerse themselves in “the mild lawlessness” that surrounds them. Among other things, this means spurning her grandfather and dating a young tough who sells black-market contraband. But late one night, missing the old man, she agrees to follow him on a wild goose chase whose purpose he won’t explain.
娜塔莉亚十多岁时，战争又一次降临巴尔干半岛。动物园关闭了，当地还强制实行宵禁。娜塔莉亚和她的朋友们沉浸于周围"轻微的无法无天"的状态中。无法无天的表现之一是，甩开她的外公，跟一个强横的黑市走私贩年轻人约会。后来一天晚上，她很想念外公，便同意跟着外公一起去捕野鹅，至于为何要这么做，老人家没有解释。
After following him through dark, empty streets, suddenly she sees what he sees: an elephant, a refugee from a defunct circus, being walked to the city’s embattled zoo. “None of my friends will ever believe it,” she exclaims in regret. “You must be joking,” her grandfather replies, rebuking her: “The story of this war — dates, names, who started it, why — that belongs to everyone. Not just the people involved in it, but the people who write newspapers, politicians thousands of miles away, people who’ve never even been here or heard of it before. But something like this — this is yours. It belongs only to you. And me. . . . You have to think carefully about where you tell it, and to whom. Who deserves to hear it?” Chastened, Natalia asks if he has other stories “like that,” stories “from before.” The question will transform her into a bard herself.
穿过漆黑、空荡荡的街道时，她突然看到了外公看到的东西：一头大象，从一个已经不存在的马戏团流落出来的大象，正向市里受到围攻的动物园走去。她惋惜地说："我的朋友们都不会相信。"她外公驳斥她说："你肯定是在开玩笑。这场战争的故事——日期、名字、谁发动了它、为何发动——属于每一个人。不只属于卷入了战争的人，还属于给报纸写稿的人、几千英里以外的政客、从没到过这里的人，以及对它闻所未闻的人。但是像这种事，这是你的。它只属于你。还有我......你要好好想想你在哪里讲述它，讲给谁听。究竟谁配得上听这个故事呢？"娜塔莉亚学乖了，她问外公：还有没有别的“类似的故事”，“来自过去的故事”？这个问题将把她也变成一位吟游诗人。
Ingeniously, Obreht juxtaposes Natalia’s matter-of-fact narration with contemporary folk tales that are as simple, enthralling and sometimes brutal as fables by Kipling or Dinesen. Soon after the war, the adult Natalia adds to this trove as she travels with a fellow doctor on a mercy mission to a town across the new border to inoculate orphans — orphans who have been created, she knows, “by our own soldiers.” “Twelve years ago,” she explains, “before the war, the people of Brejevina had been our people.” Back then, crossing borders was a formality, but now an unwary welcome is out of the question. Still, the family that plays host to the doctors treats them to a generous feast and takes care not to mention politics, religion or family matters. Nor do they explain the presence of a band of strange, sickly people roaming their property, digging holes day and night.
奥布雷特巧妙地把娜塔莉亚不带感情的叙述跟当代民间故事并置在一起。这些民间故事跟吉普林和迪内森（Dinesen）写的神话一样简单、迷人，有时也像他们写的故事一样残酷。战争结束后不久，成年的娜塔莉亚跟一位医生一起穿过新的边境去给孤儿接种疫苗，这使她的藏品中又增添了内容。她知道，那些孤儿是"我们自己的士兵"创造的。她解释说："十二年前，在战争爆发前，布雷热维纳人一直是我们自己人。"那时，穿过边境只是形式，但现在，到那里不可能再受到不加提防的欢迎了。不过，接待医生的那家人仍然用丰盛的饭菜款待他们，并且很小心地不谈政治、宗教或家庭问题。他们也没有解释为何有一群奇怪的、病泱泱的人在他们家周围走动，没日没夜地挖洞。
The diggers, Natalia learns, are hunting for the buried corpse of a relative who died without proper rites, whom they believe is blighting their family from the grave. They have come to Brejevina to right that wrong and expunge the curse. Sensible, educated Natalia finds that she can’t scorn their conviction. In fact, she has family rites of her own to attend to, a detour she must make to placate her grandmother. It’s on the drive back from this detour that Natalia recalls her grandfather’s story of Luka.
娜塔莉亚得知，挖洞的人是在寻找一位没有按规矩举行仪式就被埋葬的亲人的尸体，他们认为这位亲戚正在从坟墓里折磨家人。他们来布雷热维纳纠正这一错误，驱除诅咒。很合情理地，受过教育的娜塔莉亚发现，她无法蔑视他们的信仰。实际上，她也有需要参加的家庭仪式，她要绕道去抚慰她的外婆。正是在绕道后驾车返回时，她想起了她外公讲的卢卡的故事。
By this time, though, she has learned that neither Luka nor the tiger’s wife were characters from fairy tales. They were real people who lived in the village of Galina, the birthplace not only of Luka but of Natalia’s grandfather. The tiger who gave the “tiger’s wife” her name was real too: he made his way to Galina in 1941, spooked by bombs that fell on a Balkan city. In the woods above her grandfather’s village, Natalia tells us, the sound of the animal still vibrates amid the trees, a “tight note that falls and falls.” Arrestingly, Obreht shows that you don’t have to go back centuries to find history transformed into myth; the process can occur within a lifetime if a gifted observer is on hand to record it.
但这时，她已经知道，卢卡和"老虎的妻子"都不是神话故事中的人物。他们均确有其人，来自盖里纳，卢卡在那里出生，娜塔莉亚的外公也同样出生在那个村庄。给了那个女孩"老虎的妻子"这一名号的老虎也是真的：1941年它跑到盖里纳，被落在巴尔干半岛城市里的炮弹吓得四处逃窜。娜塔莉亚告诉我们，在她外公那个村庄上方的树林中，野兽的叫声依然在林间回响，"一个渐渐减弱的沉闷的叫声"。奥布雷特引人注目地说明，你无需回到几百年前便能看到历史演变成神话；如果你手边有一个天才观察者，这一过程只肖一生就能完成。
Téa Obreht was born in Belgrade in 1985 but left at the age of 7, before the major conflict took hold. She lived in Cyprus and Egypt, then moved to the United States in 1997. In other words, she did not live in the former Yugoslavia during the war-torn years this book revisits. Filled with astonishing immediacy and presence, fleshed out with detail that seems firsthand, “The Tiger’s Wife” is all the more remarkable for being the product not of observation but of imagination.
小说作者泰娜.奥布雷特1985年出生于贝尔格莱德，7岁时离开了那里，之后重大冲突肆虐。她在塞浦路斯和埃及生活过，后于1997年移居美国。换言之，她没有在本书重访的、饱受战争摧残的前南斯拉夫生活过。《虎妻》具有惊人的即时性和在场感，充满看上去是亲身经历的细节，这些因为并非观察而是想象的产物而显得更加杰出。