Cultural photographers try to capture images others miss. But even when they do, some people don’t see what is really there.
文化摄影师总是试图捕捉他人遗漏的画面，但是即便如此，有些人还是对真正在现场的东西视而不见。
Case in point: Baron Wolman’s pictures of the original groupies in 1969. Billed on the cover of “A Special Super-Duper Neat Issue” of Rolling Stone (then a fledgling magazine), they inspired outrage in readers unfamiliar with the sexual innovations of the counterculture. In addition, the sometimes salacious articles that accompanied the photos irked some of the women portrayed. But Mr. Wolman said his portraits had a different intent.
巴戎·沃尔曼(Baron Wolman)1969年拍下的那些最初的骨肉皮(groupie)照片就是最好的例子。它们登上了当时创刊不久的《滚石》(Rolling Stone)“特别刊”(A Special Super-Duper Neat Issue)的封面，引得一部分对反主流文化运动中性革新毫无认识的读者们义愤填膺。此外，这些照片所配的文章有些淫荡，时常激怒照片中的女人们。不过沃尔曼说，他拍照片时的本意完全不同。
“The thing I noticed immediately about these women was that they had spent a lot of time putting themselves together in ways that were so creative, you couldn’t believe it,” he said. “They mixed together outfits of the day with things from antique clothing stores to create a real vision. They weren’t appearing half-naked to get the men’s attention. They were dressing up to put on a show.”
“关于那些女人，我一眼看去，关注的是她们花很多时间打扮成很有创意的样子，你简直不能相信，”他说。“她们把当时流行的服饰和古董服装店里的衣服混搭在一起，创造出一种真正新奇的形象。她们并不是靠着半裸上阵来吸引男人的眼光，而是盛装打扮展示自己。”
Mr. Wolman’s view of the women as style icons comes into sharp focus thanks to a new coffee-table book, “Groupies and Other Electric Ladies.” It collects his published portraits along with outtakes, contact sheets, the original articles from the issue and new essays that put the subjects into a modern context. The thick paper stock and oversize format emphasizes Mr. Wolman’s view of the groupies as pioneers in hippie frippery.
由于最新出版的一本咖啡桌读物，《骨肉皮与其他电子女士们》(Groupies and Other Electric Ladies)，沃尔曼把这些女人视为时尚偶像的观点引起了密切关注。书中收集了他已经发表过的人像照片与若干未发表作品、联系表、照片的原始配文，以及在现代语境下展现这个主题的新文章。厚厚的纸材与超大的开本都在强调沃尔曼的观点：这些骨肉皮是嬉皮华丽风的先驱。
“It was all feathers and boas and frills,” the fashion stylist Phillip Bloch said. “It was whimsy and color. They’d put a Victorian blouse with boots. Or velvet pants and masculine shoes. They created a highly eclectic mishmash that together announced, ‘We break the rules.’”
“她们披挂着羽毛、长围巾和流苏，”时尚造型师菲利普·布洛克(Phillip Bloch)说。“她们的风格异想天开、充满色彩。她们用维多利亚式衬衫配长靴，用丝绒长裤配男款鞋子。她们创造出一种不拘一格的混搭风，宣告着，‘我们打破规则。’”
The revival of these images comes at a propitious time. The Twitterverse has amplified the movement to condemn judgments against women’s expressions of their sexuality, no matter how flip or free.
这些图像正好在一个适宜的时间归来。如今的网络舆论世界在普遍谴责那些对女人展现性感魅力指指点点的现象，不管她们有多么轻率随意。
“Sex positivity has permeated mainstream dialogue, particularly among people who have the benefit of growing up with social media,” said Andi Zeisler, the editorial/creative director of the feminist media company Bitch. “That brought things like slut shaming into the cultural lexicon.”
“积极展现性魅力已经渗透到主流文化的对话之中，特别是那些在社交媒体时代成长的一代人，”女权主义媒体公司“Bitch”的编辑兼创意总监安迪·泽斯勒(Andi Zeisler)说。“所以文化语汇里才出现了‘荡妇羞辱’(slut shaming)之类的字眼。”
But in order for that to come about, decades had to pass, during which the news-media image of groupies adopted any number of guises. When the Feb. 15, 1969, issue of Rolling Stone appeared, with the cover line “The Groupies and Other Girls,” it created a media pile-on. There were catch-up articles in magazines like Time and Life, along with harrumphing commentary in newspapers.
但这一切是经过了几十年的发展才出现的，在这期间，骨肉皮的形象以多种形式的伪装出现在新闻媒体上。1969年2月15日，《滚石》的那期杂志上，标题是“骨肉皮与其他女孩”，引发了一阵媒体风潮。《时代》(Time)和《生活》(Life)等杂志纷纷推出跟风文章，其他报纸也纷纷发表各种嗤之以鼻的评论。
Before the issue reached newsstands, the term “groupie” was not common, having turned up sporadically in places like The Village Voice. After the issue was published, the word became codified, aided by drooling pulp novels like “Groupie” or the voyeuristic 1970 documentary “Groupies.”
这期《滚石》出现在报摊上之前，“骨肉皮”这个字眼并不常见，只是偶尔在《村声》(The Village Voice)之类刊物上出现。这期杂志出版后，这个词才开始成了正式的用语。《骨肉皮》(Groupie)之类花痴低俗小说和1970年的偷窥狂纪录片《骨肉皮》(Groupies)也来推波助澜。
Mr. Wolman, 78, began his career in photojournalism after serving in the military in Berlin in the early 1960s. His first published photo essay captured life behind the just-erected wall in Communist-controlled East Berlin. After moving to San Francisco, Mr. Wolman met Jann Wenner, who asked him to become chief photographer for a publication he was starting, to be called Rolling Stone. Mr. Wolman held that position for three years, before Annie Leibovitz took over.
沃尔曼先生今年78岁，20世纪60年代初，他曾在柏林服役，之后才开始从事新闻摄影行业。他发表的第一篇图文报道捕捉了柏林墙刚刚树立之际，共产主义控制之下的东柏林生活。后来他搬到旧金山居住，遇到了扬·温纳(Jann Wenner)，温纳邀请他为自己刚刚起步的杂志《滚石》担任首席摄影师。沃尔曼在这个职位上呆了三年，之后由安妮·莱博维茨(Annie Leibovitz)接手。
During his time with the magazine, he earned the trust of the musicians and the women in their circle. Mr. Wolman brought the idea for an article focused on the women to Mr. Wenner, who immediately recognized it as media gold. He felt so sure, he spent $7,000 for a full-page ad on a back page of The New York Times to herald the special issue.
沃尔曼在《滚石》供职期间赢得了音乐家与圈中女人们的信任。他向温纳出了个主意：可以写一篇文章，专门报道那些女人们，温纳一下子就明白这对于媒体来说是个黄金般的点子。他非常有信心，于是斥资7000美元在《纽约时报》末版等了整版广告，预先宣传这期特别刊。
“We seized the opportunity to use this as a steppingstone to build awareness of the magazine in New York advertising circles,” Mr. Wenner said. “It stimulated a lot of attention on Madison Avenue and even more in the press and with the public.”
“我们抓住机会，把它作为垫脚石，在纽约广告界为杂志打造知名度，”温纳说。“它在麦迪逊大道上引发了很多关注，在整个媒体界和公众之中更是如此。”
The ad’s tag line was, “If we tell you what a groupie is, will you really understand?”
那则广告的主题句是“如果我们告诉你骨肉皮是什么，你真能听懂吗？”
“The whole idea was to say, ‘There’s something going on here, and you don’t know what it is, Mr. Jones,’ ” said Mr. Wolman, paraphrasing a famous Bob Dylan lyric. “But if you read Rolling Stone, you’ll get it.”
“我们的点子是，‘有些事情在发生，但你不知道那是什么，琼斯先生，’”沃尔曼引用鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)的歌词说。“但如果你读《滚石》，就能了解它。”
While many of the women who posed for Mr. Wolman loved the portraits, they were not pleased with the text surrounding them. “I never hated a word in the English language as much as I hated ‘groupie,’ ” said Sally Romano (then Sally Mann), who is now a lawyer in Huntsville, Tex. “The term is just stupid. And in the article I sounded like a complete moron.”
很多被沃尔曼拍照的女人喜欢那些照片，但她们不喜欢周围的图说。“英语里我最恨的一个词就是‘骨肉皮’，”莎莉·罗曼诺（Sally Romano，当时名叫莎莉·曼恩[Sally Mann]）说，如今她是得克萨斯州亨茨维尔的一名律师。“这个词太傻了。在文章里，我感觉就像个彻头彻尾的大傻瓜。”
Ms. Romano, who was living in the Jefferson Airplane house at the time (and was involved with the band’s drummer, Spencer Dryden), said the band “never let me live it down.”
罗曼诺女士当时和“杰斐逊飞机”(Jefferson Airplane)住在一起，和乐队的鼓手斯潘塞·德里登(Spencer Dryden)关系亲密，她说自己“从没能够忘记这段黑历史”。
Trixie Merkin, a Radcliffe graduate, enjoyed being included in the issue but wasn’t thrilled about being lumped in with groupies.
特里克西·默金(Trixie Merkin)是雷德克里夫学院的毕业生，看到自己出现在这篇文章里，她觉得很高兴，但对于自己被归为骨肉皮之列又不怎么开心。
Though the magazine pointed out that she wasn’t one (she was one of the “other girls” alluded to in the cover line), her connection to them seemed implicit. At the time, she was a bassist in the band Anonymous Artists of America, as well as a member of “the next commune down from Ken Kesey’s Merry Pranksters,” as she describes it.
尽管文中指出，她不是骨肉皮，而是封面标题里“其他女孩”中的一员，但她和骨肉皮们的关系显得暧昧不明。她说，当时她是“美国匿名艺术家”(Anonymous Artists of America)乐队的贝斯手，也是“肯·克西(Ken Kesey)的‘快活的恶作剧者’(Merry Pranksters)之后成立的一个社群的成员”。
It’s indicative of the sexism of the day, and the fact that there were few female musicians in the scene, that Ms. Merkin’s only way into the magazine was the groupie issue. She appeared topless among the otherwise largely chaste photos, and said the idea to do so was hers.
这些有点像当今的性别歧视，而且当时圈中几乎没有女乐手，默金女士上杂志的唯一办法就是通过骨肉皮特刊。她在杂志的照片上袒露胸部，周围都是比较保守的照片，而且她说，当时这样做就是她自己的主意。
“I asked myself before the shoot, ‘What should I wear — or not wear?’ ” Ms. Merkin said with a laugh. “It was meant to be zany. I was a bit of a Dadaist.”
“拍照前我问自己，‘我应该穿什么，不穿什么？’”默金笑着说。“我本想显得滑稽一点，我有点达达主义。”
If the photographs and articles drew ire from certain guardians of opinion, they didn’t necessarily diminish the women’s status within the counterculture. “The groupies had very high prestige,” said Richard Goldstein, perhaps the first true rock critic. “They had been chosen, but they had chosen as well. The musicians had to be selected by them. It was a mutual conveyance of prestige through sex.”
这些照片与文章或许令某些卫道士感到愤怒，但他们并没有贬低她们在反主流文化中的地位。“骨肉皮们享有很高的地位，”理查德·戈德斯坦(Richard Goldstein)或许是第一位真正的摇滚乐评论家，他说，“她们是被选中的，但她们也在选择。乐手必须是被她们选中的。这是一种通过性爱进行的地位互换。”
They also had an influence on fashion. Their on-the-fly street style — stitched together from 1920s bohemia, bordello chic, Victorian lace and mod leftovers — created the vintage rock look. “You see it now in the designs of Anna Sui, Catherine Malandrino and Mary-Kate and Ashley,” Mr. Bloch said of the Olsen twins. “Some of these groupies look like mothers to the Rodarte sisters.”
她们对时尚也有影响。她们那种迅速改变的街头时尚融合了20世纪20年代的波西米亚风、妓院风、维多利亚风与摩登派(mod)的残余，创造出复古摇滚造型。“你们现在可以在安娜·苏(Anna Sui)、凯瑟琳·马兰蒂诺(Catherine Malandrino)、玛丽-凯特与阿什莉(Mary-Kate and Ashley)的设计中见到它，”布洛克提起奥尔森(Olsen)姊妹。“有些骨肉皮非常像罗达特(Rodarte)姊妹的妈妈。”
But the women weren’t idealized, even in their day. The flip side of their cool appearance found enduring expression in the 1969 ballad “Groupie (Superstar),” written by Bonnie Bramlett and Leon Russell. In that song, the groupie pines for a rock star who remains out of reach, always on the road with someone else.
但她们并不是理想化的女人，即便在她们的年代里也不是。她们酷炫外表背面的东西，一直以来都写在1969年的歌曲《骨肉皮（超级巨星）》(Groupie[Superstar])里面，这首歌是邦妮·布拉姆莱特(Bonnie Bramlett)与莱昂·罗素(Leon Russell)创作的。在这首歌里，一个骨肉皮想念可望而不可即的摇滚明星，他一直都在巡演路上，和别人在一起。
The song’s message entered the mainstream when it became a No. 2 hit for the Carpenters in 1971, if with a chastened lyric. (The Carpenters whitewashed “I can hardly wait to sleep with you again” into “I can hardly wait to be with you again.”)
1971年，卡朋特兄妹(Carpenters)令这首歌登上排行榜第二位，从而使这首歌的信息进入了主流话语，不过他们的歌词经过了一番“净化”。比如把原歌曲中的“我等不及再和你一起睡”，改成了“我等不及和你重聚”。
By the late ’80s, amid the panic of AIDS, different attitudes prevailed. When Pamela Des Barres of the groupies-turned-band the G.T.O.’s published her blockbuster memoir, “I’m With the Band: Confessions of a Groupie,” in 1987, she drew criticism. Mainly, she said, it came from other women.
20世纪80年代末，伴随着艾滋病恐慌，不同的态度蔓延开来。1987年，骨肉皮乐队“G.T.O.”的成员帕米拉·德斯·巴里斯(Pamela Des Barres)发表了她轰动一时的回忆录，《和乐队在一起的我：一个骨肉皮的自白》(I’m With the Band: Confessions of a Groupie)，随后遭到批评。她说，这些批评主要来自女人。
“I had to fight my way out of a lot of difficult situations,” Ms. Des Barres said. “I was on a TV show, and Gloria Steinem didn’t even want to be on the stage with me. I was seen as a submissive slut. But I was a woman doing what I wanted to do. Isn’t that feminist?”
“我得在许多场合拼命还击，”德斯·巴里斯说。“我上一个电视节目时，格劳丽亚·斯坦恩姆(Gloria Steinem)甚至不愿意和我同台。人们把我当成俯首帖耳的放荡女人。但我只是一个做着自己想做的事情的女人。这难道不女权吗？”
Ms. Des Barres said she had to come up with snappy comebacks in order to make her way through the talk-show circuit. “Some lady said to me, ‘How could you shame yourself this way?’” she said. “I said, ‘I’m so sorry that you didn’t get to sleep with Mick Jagger and I did.’ That shut her up.”
德斯·巴里斯说，她得想出漂亮迅速的反击，才能挺过那些脱口秀节目。“有的女士问我，‘你怎能不为自己感到羞耻？’”她说。“我说，‘我睡过米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)，可惜你没睡过。’这下她就闭嘴了。”
Attitudes began to alter again in the aughts. Cameron Crowe’s 2000 movie, “Almost Famous,” portrayed the main groupie character, Penny Lane (played by Kate Hudson), as a haloed muse.
21世纪初期，人们的态度又有了改变。2000年，卡梅伦·克罗(Cameron Crowe)2000年的电影《几近成名》(Almost Famous)把一个重要的骨肉皮角色潘妮·朗恩（Penny Lane，凯特·哈德逊[Kate Hudson]饰演）描绘成一个笼罩光环的缪斯。
The 2002 comedy “The Banger Sisters” went further. In it, Susan Sarandon played a former groupie whose move away from the scene represents a denial of her true desires and a descent into ruinous repression. To cure this, she requires the brassy presence of her former partner in groupie-dom, played by Goldie Hawn (the real-life mother to Ms. Hudson).
2002年的喜剧《热力师奶》(The Banger Sisters)走得更远。片中，苏珊·萨兰登(Susan Sarandon)饰演一个前骨肉皮，她离开了那个圈子，这代表着她对自己真正欲望的否定，陷入毁灭性的压抑之中。为了改善这种状态，她需要自己在骨肉皮界厚脸皮的前搭档，这个角色由歌蒂·霍恩(Goldie Hawn)饰演，在现实生活里，她是哈德逊女士的妈妈。
Groupies still exist, and always will, but they seem not to have the prominence of their foremothers. Perhaps their most common current media depiction would be the women used decoratively in certain hip-hop videos.
骨肉皮现在依然存在，而且还将持续存在下去，但她们的地位不再像前辈们那样重要。或许目前她们在媒体上最常出现的形象，就是在某些嘻哈乐音乐录像里出现的那种作为点缀之用的女人。
If the profile and prestige of groupies has sunk, their lingering, historic image has become more complicated. On the one hand, Ms. Zeisler said, many third-wave feminists admire the fact that the ’60s groupies “transgressed the boundaries of what was considered proper female sexual behavior.”
当今骨肉皮的形象和声望可能下降了，但她们的历史形象却徘徊不去，变得愈来愈复杂。泽斯勒女士说，一方面，第三波女权主义者们佩服60年代的骨肉皮“打破了所谓‘女人的正当性行为’的界限”。
On the other, “they contributed to a culture in which women have had to struggle very hard to be seen as human and professional. They made it harder for women in music to be seen as anything other than groupies.”
另一方面，“她们参与创造了一种文化，即女人必须拼命努力，才能被视为‘人’，才能被视为是专业的。她们让人们更容易把音乐界的女人都当成是骨肉皮而已。”
Many of the original women on the scene say they have no interest in such reactions. A measure of the women’s ownership of their legacies can be seen in the title of Ms. Romano’s forthcoming autobiography. It inverts Ms. Des Barres’s title into “The Band’s With Me.”
很多音乐圈的女人说，她们对这种落后的思想没有兴趣。罗曼诺女士即将出版一本自传，从书名中可以看出女人们对她们自己的传承的认识——这正好是把德斯·巴里斯的署名颠倒过来《和我在一起的乐队》(The Band’s with Me)。
Still, the women’s enduring confidence may find its purest expression in Mr. Wolman’s photos. To focus on their power, he said he made the decision to shoot them “in as uncluttered a way as possible. I took them into the studio and treated them like celebrities, in the style of my two favorite photographers, Richard Avedon and Irving Penn.”
然而，沃尔曼的照片可能是最能表现这些女人的信心的。他说，自己关注她们的权力，他在拍摄她们的时候，决心“尽可能简洁。我把她们带进工作室，按照我最喜欢的两位摄影大师，理查德·艾维顿(Richard Avedon)与欧文·佩恩(Irving Penn)的方式，像对待名人一样对待她们，”
“I wanted to isolate them so people would really look at the women,” Mr. Wolman said. “I wanted to say to the viewer: ‘See who is really in the image. See who these women really are.’ ”
“我想把她们孤立起来，这样人们就可以真正专门看着这些女人，”沃尔曼说。“我想对观者说：‘看看画面里究竟是谁。看看这些女人真正的样子。’”