TOKYO — When Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said this week that he would visit Pearl Harbor with President Obama, news organizations around the world reported that the visit would be the first ever by a Japanese premier to the naval base that his country attacked in 1941.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)本周表示他将与奥巴马总统一起访问珍珠港，全球各地的新闻机构都报道说，这次访问将是1941年日本袭击珍珠港之后，该国首相第一次访问那里。
But it seems that the Japanese foreign ministry was incorrect about the trip being a historic first. Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida stopped in Hawaii in 1951 on his way home to Tokyo from San Francisco, where he had signed a treaty to normalize relations between Japan and most of the victorious Allies of World War II.
但日本外交部表示，史上第一次的说法似乎并不正确。日本首相吉田茂(Shigeru Yoshida)1951年从旧金山回东京时，曾在夏威夷停留。他在旧金山签署了一项令日本和二战盟国大多数战胜国的关系恢复正常化的条约。
During his brief time on the island of Oahu, he paid a formal visit to the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, a mountaintop shrine dedicated to American war dead, and, it now appears, made a less public stop at Pearl Harbor.
他在欧胡岛做了短暂停留，正式访问了太平洋纪念公墓(National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific)，那是山顶上的一处供奉美国阵亡者的圣地。现在看来，他在珍珠港做了低调停留。
A search of Japanese newspaper archives turned up a 1951 dispatch from the daily Yomiuri Shimbun. The newspaper reported that the premier had indeed gone to the American naval base at Pearl Harbor.
搜寻日本报纸档案，可以发现日报《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri Shimbun)1951年的一份报道。该报道称，吉田茂首相确实去了珍珠港的美国海军基地。
No ceremonies or other public events appear to have taken place while Mr. Yoshida was at the base. Only 10 years after the surprise attack, a Japanese leader making a splashy appearance there could have stirred resentment in the United States.
吉田茂在基地期间似乎没有举行仪式或其他公开活动。珍珠港遭袭刚过去10年，日本领导人就高调出现在那里可能会在美国国内引起不满。
Mr. Yoshida, who died in 1967, told a Yomiuri reporter who was traveling with him that the experience had left him “moved.”
吉田茂已经于1967年去世。他曾告诉同行的一位《读卖新闻》记者说，这次经历让他“很感动”。
Japanese officials have not confirmed outright that Mr. Yoshida’s Pearl Harbor visit took place. But they have been qualifying their descriptions of Mr. Abe’s planned trip.
日本官员没有确认吉田茂访问珍珠港期间发生了什么事。但他们在描述安倍晋三的此次行程时，措辞很谨慎。
“Prime Minister Abe will be the first to visit the Arizona Memorial and the first to go to Pearl Harbor with an American president,” Yoshihide Suga, a spokesman for Mr. Abe’s government, said on Thursday.
“安倍首相将是第一个参观亚利桑那号纪念馆(Arizona Memorial)、第一个与一位美国总统一起前往珍珠港的日本首相，”安倍政府的发言人菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)周四说。
He was referring to the monument built in 1962 over the wreckage of the battleship Arizona, sunk by Japanese planes.
他指的是在1962年在亚利桑那号战舰的残骸上建起来的纪念馆，该战舰当年被日本飞机击沉。
The New York Times, which was among the news organizations to report that Mr. Abe would be the first Japanese prime minister to visit Pearl Harbor, also covered Mr. Yoshida’s stop in Hawaii but did not mention that he went to Pearl Harbor. Other Japanese publications left out the visit, too.
跟其他新闻机构一起报道安倍晋三将是第一个访问珍珠港的日本首相的《纽约时报》，也报道过吉田茂在夏威夷的停留，不过没有提到他去了珍珠港。其他日本报刊也没有提及那次访问。
But The Associated Press reported it, saying in an article dated Sept. 13, 1951, that Mr. Yoshida “yesterday paid the first official Japanese call on Pearl Harbor since Dec. 7, 1941.”
但是美联社在1951年9月13日的一篇文章中说，吉田茂“昨天进行了自1941年12月7日以来，日本官方对珍珠港的首次访问”。
Toshikazu Inoue, the president of Gakushuin University in Tokyo, who has written extensively about Mr. Yoshida, said political conditions at the time probably contributed to the low-key nature of the visit.
东京学习院大学(Gakushuin University)校长井上寿一(Toshikazu Inoue)写过很多关于吉田茂的文章，他表示，那次访问之所以低调可能是当时的政治环境造成的。
The signing of the treaty “was the main focus of attention, as a historic event and symbol that Japan had reconciled with the U.S. and rejoined the international community,” he said.
他说，签署条约“是注意力的主要焦点，是日本与美国和解并重新加入国际社会的历史性事件和象征”。