Question:
提问：
Does tai chi help reduce the risk of heart disease?
太极会有助降低心脏疾病的风险吗
Answer:
答案：
Like other forms of physical activity, tai chi may be an effective method for helping to reduce the risk of heart disease. The mind-body practice, characterized by gentle movement and deep breathing, offers a nontraditional form of exercise that may appeal particularly to elderly or frail individuals and those who “get bored at the gym,” said Alona D. Angosta, who wrote a review of the research on tai chi.
如同其他体育运动形式，太极或许也是一种有助降低心脏疾病风险的有效方式。这种以动作轻柔和深呼吸为特点的身脑练习，为人们提供了一种非传统的锻炼方式。它也许会得到尤其是老年人或体虚者，还有那些“厌了健身房”人们的青睐。(Alona D. Angosta)如是说，她写了一篇关于太极研究的评论。
Although the number of tai chi trials is limited, several have shown that tai chi can reduce certain cardiovascular risk factors, including reducing levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides, increasing levels of “good” HDL cholesterol and slowing heart rate.
尽管太极实验的数量有限，但也有几个显示，太极可以减少某些心血管方面的风险因素，包括降低胆固醇(cholesterol)和甘油三酯(triglycerides) 的整体水平，增加“好的”高密度脂蛋白胆固醇(”HDL cholesterol)，以及让心率放慢。
There is also quite a bit of evidence to suggest the practice can improve blood pressure. Harvard doctors who conducted a systematic review of the medical literature in 2008 found that 22 of 26 studies reported reductions in blood pressure among participants who practiced tai chi.
另有不少证据也表明，这种练习可以改善血压。哈佛大学的医生们对2008年医学文献做了一次系统审核，结果发现26例中的22例都报告，那些打太极参与者的血压都有所降低。
One 1996 trial that randomly assigned 126 heart attack survivors to either a tai chi, an aerobic exercise or a non-exercise support group for eight weeks found improvements in both diastolic and systolic blood pressure (the top and bottom numbers) only in the tai chi group. Participants were also more likely to stick with the tai chi program over time.
1996年的一例实验将126位心脏病存活者随意分配到太极、有氧锻炼或无锻炼的实验援助小组中长达八周，而只有在太极小组才发现心脏舒张压和收缩压(低压和高压值)均有所改善。而且，随着时间推移，参与者们也更有可能对太极项目坚持不懈。
Researchers say that more studies would be helpful. Many of the trials that have been done are small, prescribe different regimens and different types of tai chi, and follow people for varying amounts of time. Those limitations make it hard to draw firm conclusions about the effects.
研究者说，做更多的实验肯定有益。许多已完成的实验都是小型的，锻炼处方、太极类别都设定得各不相同，对人跟踪的时间也各异，而这些限制都使人难对其效果做出肯定结论。