RIO DE JANEIRO — Adding to the list of setbacks and stumbles for the Rio Olympics, the Olympic Village, home to thousands of athletes during the Summer Games, has been called unfit for occupancy.
里约热内卢——本届夏季奥运会期间，将为成千上万名运动员提供住宿的奥运村被指不宜居住。这让里约奥运会的挫折和障碍名录上又增加了一项。
Sunday was supposed to be move-in day for many athletes, but the leader of the Australian Olympic delegation said its athletes would not be checking in because of problems with the gas, electricity and plumbing.
很多运动员本应在周日入住奥运村，但澳大利亚奥运代表团的领队表示，因为气、电和管道方面的问题，该代表团的运动员将不会入住。
The opening ceremony for the Rio Games is scheduled for Aug. 5.
里约奥运会的开幕式定于8月5日举行。
Among the issues with housing units at the village are “blocked toilets, leaking pipes and exposed wiring,” said Kitty Chiller, a former Olympic pentathlete whose title is chef de mission in Rio de Janeiro for the Australian Olympic Committee. There is also bad lighting in many stairwells and “dirty floors in need of a massive clean,” she said in a written statement.
曾是奥运五项全能运动员的姬蒂·奇列尔(Kitty Chiller)说，奥运村的房屋存在的问题包括“厕所堵塞、管道漏水和线路裸露在外”。她现在的头衔是澳大利亚奥林匹克委员会(Australian Olympic Committee)赴里约热内卢代表团的团长。她还在书面声明中表示，很多楼梯井灯光昏暗，“地板肮脏，需要大规模清扫”。
“Water has come through the ceiling resulting in large puddles on the floor around cabling and wiring,” Ms. Chiller said.
“屋顶漏水，导致地上靠近电缆和线路的地方形成大水洼，”奇列尔说。
Ms. Chiller said that delegations from Britain, New Zealand and other countries were experiencing similar problems in the village, which is in an area of western Rio called Barra da Tijuca. Attempts to reach those delegations were not successful.
奇列尔表示，在奥运村里，英国、新西兰和其他一些国家的代表团也在经历类似的问题。奥运村位于里约西部一个叫巴拉·达蒂茹卡的地区。本报试图联系这些代表团但未果。
Australian athletes have been staying at hotels as local organizers in Rio try to fix the problems, according to Australian officials.
澳大利亚官员称，里约当地的主办方在努力解决这些问题，在此期间，澳大利亚的运动员会住在宾馆。
Olympic officials said they expected the issues to be resolved within a few days. They said the village had officially opened on Sunday morning and, as planned, a few hundred delegation members had moved in.
奥林匹克官员称，预计这些问题将在几天之内得到解决。他们表示，奥运村按计划于周日上午正式开放，已有几百名代表团成员入住。
“There are some adjustments that we are dealing with and will be resolved in a short while,” said Carlos Nuzman, the president of the organizing committee. “Every Olympic Village, because of their magnitude, needs some adjustments until it becomes perfect. The important thing is that everything will be resolved before the Games, without disturbing the athletes.”
“我们在做一些调整，会很快解决，”里约奥运组委会主席卡洛斯·努兹曼(Carlos Nuzman)表示。“因为规模比较大，每座奥运村都需要做出一些调整才能完善。重要的是，一切都会在奥运会开始之前得到解决，不会给运动员带来不便。”
Rio de Janeiro won the bid to host the 2016 Summer Games seven years ago, when few obstacles were apparent. But the city and the organizers of the Games have encountered difficulty on several fronts, including political and economic turmoil; the spread of the Zika virus; and extensive pollution in bodies of water that are to be used in Olympic events.
里约热内卢在七年前赢得了2016年夏季奥运会的主办权，当时几乎看不出会有什么明显的障碍。但这座城市及奥运会的组织方在好几个方面遭遇了困难，包括政治与经济上的动荡；兹卡病毒的传播；以及计划在奥运赛事中使用的水体遭遇大规模污染。
Now the people in charge of putting on the Games are facing a situation similar to what unfolded at the last Winter Olympics, in Sochi, Russia, in 2014, when lodging was not ready in time for the start of the Games.
现在，负责举办这场奥运会的人面临着与2014年俄罗斯索契冬季奥运会出现的类似境况：在奥运会即将开幕之时，住宿地却还没有准备就绪。
Australian officials discussed concerns with Olympic officials in Rio on a daily basis, they said. The Australians plan to reassess the situation on Sunday evening.
他们表示，澳大利亚官员每天都向里约的奥林匹克官员表达他们的关切。他们计划在周日傍晚重新考量目前的情况。
On Saturday night, Australian officials said they had tried to conduct a “stress test” to determine whether the facilities were ready for their athletes. They turned on lights and flushed toilets in apartments on several floors.
周六晚间，澳大利亚官员表示，他们尝试进行了“压力测试”，以确定这些设施是否可以让运动员入住。他们在多个楼层的公寓里试着开灯和冲马桶。
“The system failed,” Ms. Chiller said. “Water came down walls, there was a strong smell of gas in some apartments and there was shorting in the electrical wiring.”
“系统没能通过测试，”奇列尔说。“水沿着墙壁流下来，一些公寓里有浓重的燃气味，还有电线短路的情况。”
The United States expects to have 500 athletes and staff members staying in the Olympic Village. “As is the case with every Games, we’re working with the local organizers to address minor issues and make sure the Village is ready for Team USA athletes,” said Patrick Sandusky, a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee.
美国计划有500名运动员和工作人员入住奥运村。“和每一届奥运会一样，我们正与当地组织者一起应对一些小问题，从而确保奥运村为美国奥运代表团的入住做好准备，”美国奥委会发言人帕特里克·桑达斯基(Patrick Sandusky)说。
Sweden’s women’s soccer team also refused to move into its apartments because of similar problems, the Brazilian newspaper Folha de S. Paulo reported. The article said the United States, Italy and the Netherlands had paid to hire workers to finish their rooms.
巴西刊物《圣保罗页报》(Folha de S. Paulo)报道，因为类似的问题，瑞典女子足球队也拒绝搬进奥运村的公寓。这篇报道还提到，美国、意大利与荷兰都在自掏腰包雇人完善各自的公寓。