Beware of the blender: It may be a bacteria trap.
小心：食物搅拌器可能是细菌的滋生地。
So says a new report that looked at the places and appliances in household kitchens that are most – and least – likely to harbor germs like E. coli and salmonella. The report found that some of the areas people considered most likely to be contaminated, like microwave keypads, were not, while some they had never thought of, like refrigerator water dispensers and the rubber gasket on most blenders, were among the worst.
一项新的报告提出了上述警告。该报告对家居厨房中最有可能和最不可能蕴藏病菌（如大肠杆菌和沙门氏菌）的区域和家电进行了检查。该报告发现，在微波炉按钮区等人们认为不易保持干净的区域中，实际情况并没有那么糟；反倒是一些人们从没想到的地方，如冰箱的制水机和大多数食物搅拌器的橡胶垫圈等，情况最糟糕。
The findings suggest that many people who try to keep a tidy kitchen may be overlooking some of the more problematic areas, said Lisa Yakas, a microbiologist with NSF International, a nonprofit public health group that published the report. The goal of the study, Ms. Yakas said, was not to frighten the public, but to provide some insight on the best ways to reduce the spread of food-borne illness in the kitchen.
这份报告由美国一家名为NSF International的非营利性公共卫生组织发布。该组织的微生物学家莉萨·亚卡斯(Lisa Yakas)指出，研究结果表明，许多试图保持厨房清洁的人，也许会忽视一些容易引起问题的区域。亚卡斯补充道，进行该研究的目的绝不是为了吓唬公众，而是想要就减少厨房食源性疾病传播的最佳途径，提供一些见解。
“What we really wanted to do was to just make them more aware of these places that they might not have even thought of,” Ms. Yakas said.
亚卡斯说，“我们真正想做的，只是让人们更加留心这些他们可能从未想到的地方而已”。
Research suggests that the kitchen is a particularly important place to practice good hygiene. Nearly 10 million cases of food poisoning occur in the United States every year, and according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in five outbreaks of food-borne illness are caused by food that people eat in their homes. Leafy vegetables and other plants are responsible for more than half of all cases, and about a third of all the fatal cases are caused by contaminated poultry.
研究提出，要养成良好的卫生习惯，厨房是一个特别重要的场所。每年，美国约发生近1000万例食物中毒病例。根据疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)发布的资料，食源性疾病的爆发中有五分之一是由于人们在家中食用的食物所引起的。在所有病例中，有一半以上由叶菜类蔬菜和其他植物造成，而在所有的致死病例中，约三分之一由受到污染的禽类制品所导致。
Most healthy adults can fight off such infections. But the elderly, the very young and people who are pregnant or have compromised immune systems have a higher risk of complications.
大多数健康的成年人都可以抵抗此类感染。但老年人、幼儿、孕妇或免疫系统受损者患并发症的风险较高。
“Any one of these populations could be represented in your home at some time, so it’s important to protect them,” Ms. Yakas said. “As a mom with two little kids at home, it’s something that I worry about.”
亚卡斯说，“起码在某段时间，你家里可能有上述人群之一，因此保护他们相当重要。我家有两个幼小的孩子，作为一个母亲，我会担心这些问题。”
For the new study, the researchers took swabs of a variety of common kitchen items in the homes of 20 families living in the suburbs of Detroit and Ann Arbor, Mich. They also asked people in the homes to rate the items that they thought were most likely to be contaminated and most in need of regular cleaning.
在这项新研究中，研究人员选取了居住在密歇根州底特律市或安阿伯市郊区的20个家庭，并从他们家中的多种常用厨房用具上采集了拭子。研究人员还让这些家庭的成员列举出他们认为最可能受到污染以及最需要定期清洗的用具。
The microwave keypad was the area they considered the dirtiest. But it was not. Instead, the researchers found that refrigerator ice and water dispensers, spatulas, blender gaskets – the rubber seal at the base of the blender that helps prevent leaks – and refrigerator meat and vegetable compartments had the highest germ counts.
受访者普遍认为微波炉的按钮区最脏，但事实并非如此。相反，研究人员发现，冰箱的制冰—冷水机、锅铲、食物搅拌器的垫圈（即位于搅拌器底座处的橡胶密封圈，有助于防止渗漏）、以及冰箱的肉类和蔬菜储藏室的病菌计数最高。
Water and ice dispensers, which provide moist environments that can breed micro-organisms, were often found to contain yeast and mold. That can be a particular hazard for people with allergies.
制冰—冷水机提供了可供微生物繁殖的潮湿环境，其中常常发现有酵母菌和霉菌存在。这对过敏体质的人尤其危险。
Refrigerator vegetable compartments were found to harbor salmonella and listeria, and spatulas were home to yeast and mold as well as E. coli. But perhaps the most surprising culprits were blender gaskets, Ms. Yakas said. They frequently harbored not just yeast and mold but E. coli and salmonella. The most likely reason is that people tend not to fully disassemble blenders before cleaning them or putting them in the dishwasher.
亚卡斯指出，研究发现，冰箱的蔬菜储藏室中存在沙门氏菌和李斯特菌，而锅铲则是酵母菌、霉菌和大肠杆菌滋生的温床。但是，最出人意料的“罪魁祸首”还要数食物搅拌器的垫圈。它们往往蕴藏着酵母菌、霉菌、大肠杆菌和沙门氏菌。这很可能是由于人们在清洗食物搅拌机或将它们放进洗碗机之前，没有将它们完全拆开所致。
“A lot of people don’t follow the manufacturer instructions to take them apart and clean them after each use,” Ms. Yakas said. “People just take the lid off and put that whole jar with the base and everything into the dishwasher. So every time that you use it and it sees different food, it just gets more and more gunky.”
“制造厂商在说明书中要求人们在每次使用后将食物搅拌器拆开进行清洁，但很多人并不会一板一眼地按照说明书去做，”亚卡斯说，“他们只是简单地打开盖子，把还带着底座的整个搅拌杯和其他东西一骨脑儿扔进洗碗机。因此，每次使用搅拌器时，这些垫圈都接触到不同的食物，然后就变得越来越黏嗒嗒的。”
This may also be the reason some spatulas accumulate so many germs. Some are actually two pieces — a scraper and a handle — that can be separated. “If you put one hand on the scraper and one on the handle, there are two pieces that will come apart,” Ms. Yakas said. “That’s a place that can hold residue and old food, and we found people aren’t taking the time to pull those pieces apart and clean them separately.”
某些锅铲会积聚这么多病菌，大概也是这个原因。有些锅铲是两部分的设计，由可以彼此分离的刮板和手柄组成。“如果你一手拿刮板一手握手柄，就可以把它们拆开，”亚卡斯说，“这是个容易存留食物残渣的地方。我们发现，人们一般不会花时间拆开这些部件以便分别清洗。”
Can openers were another offender, probably because people tend to use them and then plop them back into silverware drawers without cleaning or even rinsing them.
开罐器沦为另一个“罪犯”很可能是因为人们总是一用完它就“咣”地将它们扔回抽屉，不要说仔细清洗，甚至往往连冲都不冲一下。
Ms. Yakas said she did not expect people to be surprised that refrigerator meat compartments were on the list. But the compartments for vegetables are less obvious.
亚卡斯表示，正如她所预料的，人们对冰箱的肉类储藏区会进入危险清单并不感到惊讶。但是，蔬菜储藏区的危险性就不是这么显而易见了。
The report noted that it is not enough to wash produce. The findings suggest it is also a good idea to wash the areas where produce is stored. And generally, clean and unwashed produced should not be stored together. On its Web site, NSF provides some advice on ways to keep these areas and appliances sanitary.
报告指出，仅仅清洗农产品本身是不够的。研究结果表明，对农产品的储存区域也进行清洁是一个好主意。而且一般而言，不应将清洁的和未经清洗的农产品在冰箱里放在一起。关于如何保持这些区域和家电的卫生，NSF在其网站上提供了一些建议。