CHANGBAISHAN, China — The thick fog that had enveloped the mountain all morning suddenly dispersed, unveiling a crater lake of emerald water and setting off a buzz of excitement among the hikers gathered at the summit.
中国长白山——整个上午笼罩着山岳的浓雾瞬间消散了，一座碧绿的火山湖显露出来，聚集在山顶的徒步者们不禁兴奋起来。
“I can see it! I can see it!” some shouted.
“我看到了！我看到了！”有人叫道。
Park Jae-hee, 50, a South Korean author who in the fog of morning had climbed the mountain, known as Baekdusan in Korean and Changbaishan in Chinese, took a few tentative steps toward the cliff overlooking the lake, her eyes misting over.
50岁的朴在熙（Park Jae-hee，音）是一名韩国作家，她在清晨的浓雾中爬上这座山——它在朝鲜语里叫白头山(Baekdusan)，在中文里叫做长白山。她试探着地向悬崖边走了几步，眺望湖泊，双眼湿润起来。
“The moment I saw it, I felt like choking up, fighting back tears welling up in my eyes, something hot coming up from my heart,” Ms. Park said. “Only Koreans will understand how I felt.”
“看到它的那一刻，我就觉得喉咙哽咽，只能强忍住从心底涌上来的热泪，”朴女士说。“只有朝韩民众才能理解我的感受。”
At 7,185 feet above sea level, the 3.8-square-mile caldera lake, called Cheonji in Korean and Tianchi in Chinese, was created a thousand years ago in one of the biggest volcanic eruptions in history.
这座湖泊位于海拔7185英尺（约合2189米），占地3.8平方英里（约合9.8平方公里），在朝鲜语中读作Cheonji，在汉语中名叫天池，它是1000年前其历史上一次大规模火山爆发中形成的。
Like Loch Ness in Scotland, the 1,260-foot-deep lake is also home to a mythical monster. People in China have reported sightings of giant seal-like or scaled and horned creatures swimming in the lake, though scientists say the water is too cold for large animals.
与苏格兰的尼斯湖一样，这座1260英尺深（约合384米）的湖泊也有一种神秘怪兽出没。一些中国人声称见过像海豹一样的或是其他什么有鳞有角的怪物在湖中游泳，但是科学家说湖水太冷，根本不会有大型动物存活。
But for Koreans from both North and South, Cheonji and the 9,029-foot-tall Baekdusan are much more than natural wonders. They are viewed with a near-religious reverence and are considered the spiritual home of their respective nations.
但是对于朝鲜人和韩国人来说，天池与海拔9029英尺（约合2752米）的长白山不仅仅是壮丽的自然景观。他们带着近乎宗教信仰的敬畏之情前来参观，两国人民都把这里当做精神家园。
North Korea sends party cadets and soldiers on pilgrimages to the mountain to swear their loyalty to their leader, Kim Jong-un, who claims to be of a “Baekdu bloodline.” The lake also looms large in the North’s propaganda. When Mr. Kim’s father and predecessor, Kim Jong-il, died in the winter of 2011, the North Korean news media claimed that the thick ice on the lake cracked “so loud, it seemed to shake the heavens and the Earth.”
朝鲜常常送党的军校学生和士兵来这里朝圣，宣誓效忠自称拥有“白头山血统”的领袖金正恩。天池在朝鲜的政治宣传中也占了很大分量，金正恩的父亲、朝鲜前领导人金正日于2011年冬天去世时，朝鲜新闻媒体称，天池厚厚的冰层龟裂了，“巨大的声音震天动地”。
In South Korea, the national anthem opens with a reference to Baekdusan, and walls of government offices are decorated with panoramic pictures of Cheonji. Baekdusan regularly tops lists of places South Koreans wish to visit before they die.
而在韩国，国歌刚一开头就提到白头山，政府部门办公室的墙壁上也挂着白头山的全景照片作为装饰。在韩国人“死前必去的地方”这类心愿单上，白头山往往名列榜首。
But for decades after the Korean War in the early ’50s, which ended with Korea divided by a sealed border, South Koreans were barred from visiting by North Korea and China, the North’s Cold War ally. Under their 1962 border treaty, North Korea and China each owns roughly half of the mountain and Cheonji.
20世纪50年代初的朝鲜战争令朝鲜半岛分裂为两个国家，中间隔着封闭的边境线，从那以后几十年的时间里，韩国人都无法访问朝鲜，也无法访问朝鲜在冷战中的盟友中国。根据1962年的边境协议，朝鲜和中国大致平分了白头山与天池。
The door opened only in 1992, when China and South Korea forged diplomatic ties.
大门直到1992年才打开，那一年，中国与韩国建立了外交关系。
South Koreans began rushing to Baekdusan, climbing the Chinese slopes of the mountain. Barring the reunification of the two Koreas or a sudden decision by the North to open a land route across the Korean Peninsula — both prospects distant, given high tensions on the peninsula — the route through China is the only way for them to visit their “holy mountain.”
韩国人开始涌向白头山，从中国一侧的山坡爬到顶峰。这条取道中国的路线是他们唯一能够朝拜“圣山”的途径——除非朝韩统一，又或是朝鲜突然决定开放一条贯穿朝鲜半岛的陆路，但鉴于目前朝鲜半岛的紧张局势，这两个前景都很遥远。
That devotion has not been without problems.
这种热情也不是完全没有问题。
Once on the mountaintop, many South Koreans are moved to display their national flag, chanting hurrahs with arms raised, and singing their national anthem — raising the hackles of North Korean border guards nearby. In 2008, a cast of celebrities in a popular South Korean reality TV show traveled to Baekdusan with bottles of water collected from remote corners of South Korea and poured them into Cheonji in what they called a symbolic gesture of making the divided Korea whole again.
一次，在白头山顶，很多韩国人深受感动，他们拿出国旗，举手欢呼，唱着国歌，结果激怒了不远处边境上的朝鲜哨兵。2008年，韩国一个很受欢迎的电视真人秀节目组织一群名人到白头山旅行，他们用瓶子装了从韩国各个偏远角落收集的水，倒入天池，他们说，这象征着让分裂的朝韩重新统一起来。
Today, local guides, mostly ethnic Korean-Chinese, recite a strict Chinese government ban on such activities.
本地导游大都是中国的朝鲜族人，现在，他们向游客一再重申中国政府禁止类似行为。
“Please no national flags at the top,” one of them said. “This is not your Mount Everest.”
“请不要在山顶插国旗，”其中一个人说，“这又不是珠穆朗玛峰。”
The stunts have largely come to an end in recent years, with many Chinese national park officials around at the scene to enforce the ban.
近年来，这种招摇的行为已经基本销声匿迹，景区内有不少中国国家公园的官员，负责执行这项禁令。
“There is something about Baekdusan that makes all Koreans patriotic,” said Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, who visited the mountain last year with a group of former South Korean government officials and scholars. “There, Koreans feel they have come to their roots.”
“白头山有一种特别的东西，可以激发朝韩两国人民的爱国之心，”首尔的和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲(Lee Byong-chul)说，他去年曾经随同一个由前任韩国政府官员与学者组成的旅行团探访过这里。“在那里，朝韩两国人民都觉得回到了自己的根。”
Planes from South Korea usually land in Yanji, the seat of the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture in northeast China, which is home to a large ethnic Korean community, most of them descendants of Koreans who fled Japanese colonial rule in the early 20th century. In Yanbian, all store signs are both in Chinese and Korean. The South Korean won is as welcome as the Chinese renminbi.
来自韩国的航班通常在延吉降落，这里是中国东北延边朝鲜族自治州的首府所在地，拥有人口庞大的朝鲜族社区，其中大多数人都是20世纪初从日本殖民地流亡而来的朝鲜人的后裔。在延边，所有商店的标识都是以中文和朝鲜文字书写。韩元和人民币一样受欢迎。
In Yanbian, the South Korean tourists visit historic sites linked to Korean patriots who fought for national independence from Japanese colonial rule or to ancient kingdoms in northern China that Koreans see as part of their history.
在延边，韩国旅行者们可以参观各种历史遗迹，有的是关于抗击日本殖民统治、赢得国家独立的朝鲜爱国者；也有的是关于中国北部的几个古代王国，韩国人认为那也是他们历史的一部分。
While they are not allowed to go near their own country’s heavily armed border with North Korea, South Koreans in Yanbian can also gaze at the North lying just a stone’s throw away. In Tumen, a town on the river border with North Korea, tourists from the South take pictures of themselves with the North as a background.
韩国人不允许接近重兵把守的朝韩边境线，但在延边，他们却能近距离地凝视着朝鲜。图们是中朝边境线上的一座滨江城市，来自韩国的游客常常在这里自拍，把身后的朝鲜当背景。
Across the narrow river, Mr. Kim’s late father and grandfather, Kim Il-sung, who had ruled before him, smiled from large portraits hung on a riverfront building. Behind them, the North Korean town of Namyang slumbered in decrepitude. Little human activity was visible.
窄窄的江流另一边，金正恩已故的父亲金正日，还有他的祖父、更前一任领导人金日成面带笑容的巨幅画像悬挂在一栋临江的建筑上。他们身后是衰败的朝鲜小镇南阳，那里仿佛陷入昏睡，几乎没有什么人迹。
“Taking pictures, throwing items or shouting to the North Korean side is strictly forbidden!” read a sign posted in Korean by the Chinese authorities, a warning to the Korean tourists who take $20 boat rides down the river to get closer to North Korea and are known for throwing food and dollars to North Koreans.
“严禁拍照、投掷物品或向朝鲜喊话！”中国官方树立的一个标志牌上用朝鲜语写道，警告那些花20美元雇来小船、顺流而下驶近朝鲜的韩国游客，他们爱向对岸的朝鲜人投掷食品和美元。
Park Jong-ae, 29, who is Korean-Chinese and makes a living guiding South Korean tourists to Baekdusan, said recent warnings by the South’s government of possible terrorist attacks by the North have reduced the number of South Koreans traveling to Baekdusan. These days, a vast majority of people disgorged from a fleet of buses or 10-seat Mercedes vans to hike the last short stretches to the mountaintop are Chinese, she said.
29岁的朴正爱（Park Jong-ae，音）是中国的朝鲜族人，她靠着在白头山给韩国游客当导游为生，她说，近期韩国政府发布警告，认为朝鲜可能实施恐怖袭击，因此来白头山的韩国游客也减少了。她说，最近的一些日子，那些从大巴或是10座梅赛德斯面包车上下来，徒步走完最后一段短短距离登上山顶的，大都是中国人。
Ms. Park, the author, said her country’s recent tensions with China over the South’s decision to deploy an American missile-defense system — and rumors that China might tighten visa restrictions for South Koreans — prompted her to hurry.
作家朴在熙女士说，由于韩国决定部署美国的导弹防御系统，中韩两国近来关系紧张，有谣言说中国可能收紧发给韩国人签证——这催促着她赶快前来。
Besides, she was embarking on a new career as a travel writer. She wanted Baekdusan’s blessing.
此外，她还想开辟事业的新领域，成为一个旅游作家。她希望得到白头山的保佑。
“The older I got, the more I wanted to visit Baekdusan,” she said. “So I hurried before it gets too late. There is no guarantee that I can come and see Cheonji again before I die.”
“我年纪越大，就越是想来白头山，”她说。“所以我就赶快来了，不然就来不及了。我死之前还能不能再来一趟，看看天池，谁也说不准。”