Mahesh Sharma, India’s culture minister, said this week that foreign women should not wear skirts while visiting the country, drawing broad criticism in a nation trying to assure female tourists they did not need to fear sexual assault.
印度旅游和文化部长马赫什·夏尔马 (Mahesh Sharma)本周说，外国女性来这个国家的旅游时不应该穿裙子，结果在这个努力确保女性游客不必担心性侵犯的国家里引发了广泛批评。
“The tourists, when they arrive at the airport, they are being given a welcome kit,” Mr. Sharma told reporters on Sunday in televised remarks. “There is a card with it. Dos and don’ts. What to do and what not to do. Like small things. We tell them that: Do not venture out alone in small towns during the night, don’t wear skirts.”
“游客到达机场时，他们都会得到一套迎客纪念品，夏尔马周日在接受电视节目采访时告诉记者说。“还会附上一张卡片，上面写着该做什么和不该做什么。比如一些小事。我们告诉他们：夜间在小城镇不要冒险单独出门，不要穿裙子。”
“For their own safety, women foreign tourists should not wear short dresses and skirts,” he added, according to The Guardian.
据《卫报》(The Guardian)报道，“为了她们自身的安全考虑，外国女游客不应该穿短的连衣裙和半身裙，”他补充说。
He later said he meant it as “an advisory when going to religious places,” comparing it to removing shoes when going into a temple.
他后来说，自己说的是“针对宗教地区的建议”，类似于进入寺庙之前要脱鞋子。
“I am a father of daughters,” Mr. Sharma said. “I have not said what one person should wear or not wear, neither it is desired nor I am authorized to say so. I have only said this as an advice when they visit to religious place.”
“我自己也有女儿，”夏尔马说。“我并不是说一个人应该穿什么，不应该穿什么，我没有意愿也没有权力这样说。我只是提出建议，希望她们参观宗教场所时这样做。”
Officials, including the chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, and other critics on social media denounced Mr. Sharma’s suggestion.
包括德里首席部长阿尔温德·凯杰里沃(Arvind Kejriwal)在内的官员和社交媒体上的其他评论者纷纷谴责夏马尔的说法。
India has intensely debated how it responds to and prevents sexual assault since a woman was brutally gang-raped on a New Delhi bus in 2012 and died from her injuries. Though the country now imposes stricter penalties, it has continued to reckon with high-profile cases of attacks on tourists. Five men were sentenced in June to life in prison for a 2014 gang rape of a Danish woman who was abducted at knife point in New Delhi, and in July the police accused two men of raping an Israeli woman in Manali.
2012年，一个女子在新德里一辆公共汽车上遭受残忍轮奸后因伤去世，从而在印度引发了如何应对和防止性侵犯的激烈争论。尽管这个国家现在施加了更严格的惩罚，但它仍然一直需要应付对旅游者的侵犯这类获得高度关注的案子。6月，五名男子因为2014年在新德里用刀子挟持一名丹麦女性并实施轮奸，被判处终身监禁；7月，警方起诉两名男子在马拉里强奸了一名以色列女人。
India reported 36,375 rapes against women in 2014, the most recent year statistics were available from the government. Delhi had an average of six rapes and 15 molestations per day in 2015, the highest rate in 15 years, according to The Indian Express.
根据能够从政府获得的最近的统计数据，2014年，印度发生了36375起强奸妇女的案件。根据《印度快报》(The Indian Express)，2015年，德里平均每天发生6起强奸案，15起性骚扰案，达到15年来最高的犯罪率。
Mr. Sharma’s comments do not veer too far from advice from the United States State Department, which cautions that women should not travel alone in India and says visitors, especially women, are “advised to respect local dress and customs.” With the exception of some resorts and neighborhoods in New Delhi and Mumbai, women in India tend to dress with “clothing that covers their legs and shoulders,” the guidelines say.
夏尔马的建议和美国国务院的建议相差不远，它警告女性在印度不要单独出行，旅游者，尤其是女性，“应当尊重当地的着装和习俗”。除了在新德里和孟买的某些名胜和街区，印度女性一般穿的都是“遮盖住双腿和双肩的服装”，这份指南写道。
“Although most victims have been local residents, recent sexual attacks against female visitors in tourist areas across India underline the fact that foreign women are at risk and should exercise vigilance,” say the guidelines, last updated in 2015.
“尽管绝大多数的受害者都是本地居民，近期在印度各地旅游景区针对女性游客的性侵犯案件表明，外国女性在该国有危险，应该谨慎行事，”这份更新于2015年的指南说。
Sachi Maclachlan, 27, a filmmaker from Brooklyn, has been to India four times and said she always recommended to her American friends that they dress traditionally as “a way of survival.” But she struggles with how that suggestion conflicts with her feminist philosophies, she said, including the idea that victimization is not the woman’s fault.
27岁的萨奇·麦克拉克伦(Sachi Maclachlan)是布鲁克林的一位制片人，曾经去过印度四次，她说自己经常向美国朋友们推荐，按照传统方式穿着是一种“保命之道”。但是她说，她努力不让这些建议和自己的女权主义观点相冲突，女权主义认为，成为受害者并不是女人的错。
On several occasions, she has been harassed and touched in the streets while wearing traditional Indian clothing, she said. It suggests to her that the problems run deeper than the clothes women wear.
在某些场合下，她即便是穿着传统印度服装，也会在街头遭到骚扰和触碰。因此她明白，还有比女性的服装更加深刻的问题存在。
“I could have just been wearing shorts and been super comfortable and still been touched, so does it matter?” she said.
“我本可以舒舒服服地穿着短裤，但最后还是被人摸了，所以穿什么有关系吗？”她说。
Jessica Ault, 31, a program and records manager for a nonprofit in Washington, said she packed modest clothes for her trip to India in January, but was motivated more by respecting local culture than safety. She said Mr. Sharma’s comments struck her as victim blaming, suggesting that a woman would invite sexual assault based on what she was wearing.
31岁的杰西卡·奥尔特(Jessica Ault)是华盛顿一个非营利组织的方案与记录管理员，她说自己在今年一月份去印度时穿了保守的衣着，但目的是为了尊重本土文化，而不是为了安全。她说夏尔马的建议让她觉得是在指责受害者，暗示是女性的穿着为自己招来性侵犯。
“She can be in a burqa, she can be in a sari or she can be in a short skirt and still get raped,” Ms. Ault said.
“她无论是穿遮盖全身的长袍，还是沙丽，或者短裙，都有可能被强奸，”奥尔特说。