TOKYO — Shinzo Abe’s past year as prime minister has concentrated chiefly on reviving Japan’s long-ailing economy. Yet in Mr. Abe’s mind, the country’s newfound economic prowess is a means to an end: to build a more powerful, assertive Japan, complete with a full-fledged military, as well as pride in its World War II-era past.
东京——去年，安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)作为首相的主要关注点是振兴日本长期萎靡的经济。然而，在安倍晋三心目中，日本重新获得的经济实力只是实现一个目标的手段，目标就是建设一个更加强大、更加自信、拥有完备军队和二战时期自豪感的日本。
That larger agenda, which helped cut short Mr. Abe’s first stint in office in 2006-7, has again come to the forefront in recent weeks, culminating in his year-end visit Thursday to the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors the nation’s war dead, including several war criminals who were executed after Japan’s defeat. Past visits by Japanese politicians have angered China and South Korea, both of which suffered greatly under Japan’s empire-building efforts in the 20th century.
在安倍晋三于2006年到2007年首次担任首相期间，前述的更宏伟目标是导致他中途下台的因素之一。但最近几周，这个目标再次出现在最前沿，并在安倍晋三周四参拜靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)时达到高潮。靖国神社供奉着日本的战争亡灵，其中包括几名在日本战败后被处决的战犯。日本政坛人士过往的参拜总是会激怒中国和韩国，两国均曾在20世纪日本帝国扩张期间饱尝苦难。
The latest visit set off swift rebukes from officials in Beijing and Seoul, who accused Mr. Abe of trying to obscure imperial Japan’s atrocities. And in a rare criticism of a close ally, the new American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, also expressed disappointment with Mr. Abe’s government.
安倍晋三此次参拜迅速遭到了中国和韩国官员的谴责，两国官员都指责安倍晋三试图掩盖日本帝国的罪行。此外，新任美国驻日本大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)也罕见地对本国的亲密盟友提出批评，表达了对安倍政府的失望。
Mr. Abe has shown, however, that he is willing to take on big political risks to steer the country away from its postwar pacifism. Last month, he ignored blistering criticism from political opponents as well as the news media and steamrollered through Parliament a law that would tighten government control over state secrets. The law was presented by the government as a mechanism to aid in the sharing of military intelligence with allies, and create an American-style National Security Council.
然而，正如安倍晋三所表现出来的那样，为了让日本走出战后的和平主义路线，他愿意承担巨大的政治风险。上月，他不顾政敌和新闻媒体的强烈批评，强行在议会通过了一项法案。根据该法案，政府将加强对国家机密的控制。政府称该法案是一个有助于与盟友共享军事情报的机制，并可依据该法建立一个美国式的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)。
Mr. Abe has also increased military spending for the first time in a decade, and loosened self-imposed restrictions on exporting weapons. A new defense plan calls for the acquisition of drones and amphibious assault vehicles to prepare for the prospect of a prolonged rivalry with China.
安倍晋三还让日本十年来第一次增加了军费开支，同时放松了日本在出口武器方面自我设置的限制。一项新的防御计划要求日本配备无人机和两栖攻击车辆，以便应对中日之间可能会爆发的长期斗争。
And experts say that next year, Mr. Abe could start taking concrete steps to reinterpret, and ultimately revise, Japan’s 1947 pacifist Constitution, something he has described as a life goal. Proposed changes could allow the country to officially maintain a standing army for the first time since the war, and take on a larger global security role.
一些专家表示，安倍晋三明年可能会开始采取具体措施，对日本1947年颁布的反战宪法进行重新解读，最终达到修订宪法的目的。安倍晋三曾说这是他毕生奋斗的目标。已提出的修改可能会允许日本正式拥有战后的首支常备军，并在全球安全事务中发挥更大的作用。
“The past year has given Mr. Abe confidence to start flying his own colors,” said Koji Murata, president of Doshisha University in Kyoto. “He is signaling to his supporters that he is a politician who will fight for his convictions.”
“过去的一年让安倍晋三获得了放开拳脚的信心，”位于京都的同志社大学(Doshisha University)校长村田晃嗣(Koji Murata)说，“他正在向支持者发出信号，表明自己是一个会为了信仰而战的政治家。”
Mr. Abe’s push is at once timely and risky. Regional anxiety over Beijing’s own rapid military buildup — and the relative decline of American influence here as Washington remains distracted by the Middle East — has seemed to set the stage for a more confident Japan. And tensions with China and South Korea have made a skeptical public more willing to accept Mr. Abe’s rightist agenda, including the establishment of a more robust military.
安倍晋三的举措来得很及时，同时也很冒险。中国快速进行的军备建设——以及美国在本地区相对减弱的影响力，原因是中东问题依然牵制着华盛顿——引发的地区忧虑似乎为一个更加自信的日本做好了铺垫。与中韩两国的紧张关系也让多疑的日本民众更愿意接受安倍晋三的右翼议程，包括建立一支更强大的军队。
But territorial disputes, as well as sharp disagreements over the legacy of the war, also make for a dangerous backdrop to Japan’s rise. Japanese and Chinese patrol boats remain in a tense standoff near uninhabited islands in the East China Sea claimed by both countries, prompting concern among some military analysts that a miscalculation or accident could set off an armed confrontation.
然而，领土争端，以及围绕战争遗留问题的尖锐分歧，也为日本的崛起设定了一个危机四伏的背景。中日两国均声称对东海一些无人岛屿拥有主权。在相关岛屿附近，两国的巡逻船依然处在紧张的对峙之中。一些军事分析人士由此担心，误判或事故可能会引发一场武装对抗。
Japan’s relations with South Korea are at rock-bottom because of a separate territorial dispute and disagreements over interpretations of history. Raised hopes for a reconciliation after recent reports of a meeting involving vice ministers from the two countries have been dashed by Mr. Abe’s Yasukuni visit.
因为另一起领土争端以及历史解读方面的分歧，日本与韩国的关系也处在最低点。前不久有报道称两国的副部长级官员举行了会谈，这让外界看到了两国和解的希望。但安倍晋三参拜靖国神社一事让这种希望落了空。
“Mr. Abe has poured even more fuel on the fire,” said Tetsuya Takahashi, a professor of philosophy at the University of Tokyo and author of a best-selling book on the Yasukuni Shrine’s role in Japanese politics. “That does not bode well for Japan’s relations in Asia at all.”
“安倍晋三这是在火上浇油，”东京大学(University of Tokyo)哲学教授高桥哲哉(Takahashi Tetsuya)说，“对日本在亚洲的关系而言，这绝不是什么好兆头。”高桥哲哉写过一本畅销书，讲的是靖国神社在日本政治中的作用。
Mr. Abe walks a fine line in part because the many facets of his agenda do not sit well together. For one, good relations with China — Tokyo’s largest trading partner — are critical to Japan’s ongoing economic recovery. Experts warn that taking a belligerent stance toward Beijing could deal another blow to Japanese business interests in China, and to Mr. Abe’s economic agenda.
安倍晋三之所以走钢丝，部分是因为他的议程包含许多互不兼容的方面。比如，对日本当前的经济复苏而言，同日本最大的贸易伙伴中国保持良好关系至关重要。一些专家警告称，对中国采取好战姿态可能会再次打击日本在华的经济利益，以及安倍晋三的经济议程。
Nor do Mr. Abe’s deeply revisionist views of history — which he inherited from his grandfather Nobusuke Kishi, who was jailed for war crimes before eventually becoming prime minister — inspire confidence that Tokyo can play a bigger security role in Asia.
安倍晋三具有严重修正主义色彩的历史观也无法让人们相信，日本能在亚洲安全事务中发挥更重要的角色。他的历史观是从外祖父岸信介(Nobusuke Kishi)那里继承下来的。岸信介曾因战争罪入狱，后来成为日本首相。
Washington has generally been keen for Japan to take on a more active military presence in the region to counterbalance China’s growing might. But rather than become a stable ally, Tokyo has become another Asian problem for American officials because of its quarrels with Beijing.
总体上说，美国政府一直希望日本在该地区发挥更积极的军事作用，以便制衡中国日益增长的力量。然而，对于美国官员而言，日本非但没有成为一名牢靠的盟友，反而因为与中国的争端成了亚洲的另一个问题。
When Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel visited Japan in October, they paid their respects at a different cemetery for Japan’s unnamed war dead, in an apparent effort to nudge Japanese leaders away from visiting Yasukuni.
10月，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)曾在访日期间前往另一处公墓，对日本的无名战争亡灵进行了祭奠，此举明显是为了告诫日本领导人不要参拜靖国神社。
“In the end, Mr. Abe’s historical views diverge sharply from America’s,” Mr. Takahashi said. “After all, Mr. Abe does not believe in the postwar order that America established.”
“到最后，安倍晋三的历史观点与美国产生了严重分歧，”高桥哲哉说。“毕竟，安倍晋三并不相信美国建立的战后秩序。”
Yet thanks to his early focus on the economy, Mr. Abe’s ratings of around 50 percent are high by recent Japanese standards; he faces no credible opposition and no nationwide elections are scheduled until 2016. His ruling Liberal Democratic Party won a landslide victory in parliamentary elections in July, giving it control over both chambers of Parliament, and the power to push through legislation.
然而，由于执政初期对经济的关注，安倍晋三获得了50%左右的支持率，以日本近年的标准衡量，这个比率已经相当高了；他没有面临强劲的反对，日本2016年之前的日程中也没有任何全国性选举。7月，他领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)以压倒性优势赢得了议会选举，由是获得了国会两院的控制权，以及使法律获得通过的权力。
Mr. Abe has, at times, worked well with the Americans. For example, he was personally involved in a long-stalled plan to move an American Marine base on the island of Okinawa.
有些时候，安倍晋三与美国合作良好。例如，他亲自参与了长期停滞的让一个美国海军基地搬离冲绳的计划。
“He began by focusing on economic revival, and cementing his support, which was wise,” said Eiji Yoshida, a professor of law at Kansai University in Osaka. “But he’s been waiting and waiting for the moment he can move on to his true agenda, and that moment is now.”
“他刚开始关注的是经济复苏和巩固自己的支持，这样做很明智，”大阪关西大学(Kansai University)的法律教授吉田荣司(Eiji Yoshida)说。“但是他一直在等待，等待能实施他真正议程的时刻，也就是现在。”
China has little room to maneuver after last month unilaterally declaring a new air defense zone over the East China Sea islands, raising alarm across the region. In a direct challenge to threats by China that it could take military action against foreign aircraft entering the zone, the United States sent two unarmed B-52 bombers through the airspace, after which China appeared to backpedal from its threats.
上个月，中国单边宣布在前述东海岛屿上空划设新的防空识别区，引起了整个地区的紧张，这样一来，中国也没有太多的回旋余地。中国威胁将对进入该区域的外国飞机采取军事行动，美国却派遣两架未携带武器的B-52轰炸机进入该空域，对中国的威胁发起了直接挑战。此后，中国似乎并未将自己的威胁付诸实践。
“China has already played its card. There’s little room for it to escalate matters over Prime Minister Abe’s visit,” Mr. Murata of Doshisha University said.
同志社大学的田晃嗣说，“中国已经打出了自己的牌，几乎不再有拿安倍晋三参拜靖国神社一事来做文章的余地。”
Some analysts say that Mr. Abe did his best to minimize the fallout from his Yasukuni visit. He avoided worshiping there during the shrine’s seasonal religious festivals, or during politically or historically significant anniversaries.
一些分析人士称，为了减轻参拜靖国神社的影响，安倍晋三已经尽了最大努力。他选择的参拜时间既不是该神社的周期性宗教节日，也不是具有重大政治或历史意义的纪念日。
Many Japanese conservatives say the visit should not be so politically charged, because it was simply meant to honor the 3.1 million military personnel and civilians who perished in World War II.
日本的许多保守人士都说，不应该过分解读此次参拜的政治意义，因为此举只是想祭奠二战中死亡的310万军人和平民。
Mr. Abe himself made that claim, saying he contemplated on the “preciousness of peace” as he paid his respects at Yasukuni.
安倍晋三自己也这么说，称他在参拜靖国神社时反思了“和平的可贵”。
Few analysts, however, think that he will now turn his full focus back to the economy. Instead, the new year is likely to mark new steps to change the Constitution.
然而，极少有分析人士认为，他目前会再次把全部注意力重新转移到经济上来。新的一年，他很可能会采取意图修宪的新举动。
Mr. Abe has said he would first push to reinterpret the Constitution to allow Japan to take action on behalf of allies under attack. But he has made no secret that he would seek a wide-ranging revision of the document itself, allowing Japan a national army.
安倍晋三表示，他首先会推动对宪法进行重新解释，允许日本代表受到攻击的盟友采取行动。但他从未掩饰自己的意图，那就是对宪法文本进行大幅度修改，让日本拥有国家军队。
“Perhaps the most important lesson of Abe’s visit to Yasukuni is that despite claims that Abe is focused on economic recovery above all else, the prime minister does not believe that his mandate is limited to his economic policies,” said Tobias Harris, an expert on Japanese politics at Teneo Intelligence, an advisory firm.
咨询公司Teneo Intelligence的日本政治专家托比阿斯·哈里斯(Tobias Harris)说，“安倍晋三参拜靖国神社，带给人们最重要的启示或许是，虽然有人说安倍关注的主要是经济恢复，他本人却并不认为自己的使命仅限于经济政策。”