MEDFORD, Mass. — Late last month, Chinese and North Korean leaders found themselves showered with an unexpected gift from Japan: Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s visit to Tokyo’s controversial Yasukuni Shrine, where 14 “Class A” war criminals — the category reserved for political and military leaders prosecuted in 1946 for starting and waging war — and over 1,000 individuals convicted of lesser war crimes are commemorated. Mr. Abe’s homage to Japan’s war dead, in the court of world public opinion, smacks of denial of his nation’s wartime aggression — and has been widely condemned.
马塞诸塞州梅德福——上个月末，中、朝领导人意外地得到了来自日本的一份“大礼”：首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)参拜了东京倍受争议的靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)。此地供奉着14位“甲级”战犯和超过1000名罪行较轻的乙级和丙级战犯。甲级战犯专指因发动和挑起战争而于1946年受审的日本政治、军事领导人。在世界舆论的审判庭上，安倍晋三参拜日本的战争亡灵意味着对该国战时侵略行径的否认，受到了广泛的谴责。
This impression only strengthens China’s hand in current disputes with Japan — and therefore also in its strategic competition with the United States. It also advances North Korea’s aim of driving wedges into the coalition of the United States, South Korea and Japan.
这种印象只会让中国在当前与日本的争端中掌握更大主动权，因而也会让它与美国的战略竞争上掌握更大主动权。这还会正中朝鲜下怀，让美、韩、日联盟出现裂痕。
Mr. Abe likely calculated that he could reap domestic political advantage from nationalistic posturing without much consequence, as long as Japan continues its policy of quasi-pacifism under the American security umbrella. But he chose a particularly sensitive moment for his symbolic gesture. This pilgrimage comes just a month after China’s unilateral declaration of an air defense identification zone over a chain of islands in the East China Sea claimed by China and administered by Japan.
安倍晋三可能是这样考虑的：只要日本能继续在美国的安全保护伞下实行它的准和平主义政策，做出民族主义的姿态可以令他在国内收获政治优势，也不会带来什么严重后果。但他选择了一个极其敏感的时刻来做出这种具有象征性的举动。参拜距离中国单方面宣布在东海一条岛链上空设置防空识别区仅隔了一个月。中国宣布对这条岛链享有主权，但日本对它实施实际控制。
An increasingly assertive China and belligerent North Korea — two states founded on the anti-Japanese revolutionary credentials of their respective leaderships — will surely exploit Japan’s perceived embrace of militarism, particularly at a time when Japan is bolstering its defense policy as never before in the postwar period. The image of an unashamedly bellicose Japan, however, has no benefit whatsoever for the United States, which is allied to Japan by a security treaty that grants the right to maintain military bases on Japanese territory.
越来越强硬的中国和越来越好斗的朝鲜——这两个国家都建立在各自领导人的抗日革命资历之上——一定会利用人们眼中日本对军国主义的信奉，特别是日本当前正努力加强其防御政策，势头之猛为战后首见。然而，日本这种公然的好战形象对美国却没有任何好处。美日同盟的基石是一项安全协议，根据这项协议，美国有权在日本领土内保有军事基地。
On the day of Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine, Washington joined the chorus from Beijing and Seoul, whose denunciation ranged from “strong indignation” to “rage.” Days later, the Chinese Foreign Ministry likened Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine to honoring “the Nazis of Asia,” while North Korea characterized it as a path to “self-destruction.”
在安倍晋三参拜靖国神社的当天，华盛顿加入了北京和首尔一致声讨的行列，中韩两国的谴责之词从“强烈愤慨”到“愤怒”。几天以后，中国外交部将安倍晋三参拜靖国神社的行为比作朝拜“亚洲的纳粹”，而朝鲜则称之为一条走向“自我毁灭”的道路。
Using unusually blunt language, the American Embassy in Tokyo stated that “the United States is disappointed that Japan’s leadership has taken an action that will exacerbate tensions with Japan’s neighbors.” While the strategic imperatives of the American-Japanese alliance will survive this incident, Mr. Abe has set back Japan’s international diplomacy and undone much of the work of his predecessors who made Japan a model of peace, democracy and development in the post-1945 world.
驻东京的美国大使以异常直白的措辞，表明“美国对日本领导人采取会激化与邻国紧张关系的行动表示失望”。虽然美日联盟的战略需求将超越这次事件的影响，但安倍晋三已妨碍了日本的国际外交，也破坏了诸多前任所做的努力，正是这些人在1945年之后将日本打造成了一个和平、民主和发展的世界典范。
On the surface, the Yasukuni compound offers a typical vignette of Japan, with its meticulously maintained gardens and the graceful movements of its Shinto priests. But just a short stroll from the main shrine, the visitor finds a consecration of lies and half-truths that tarnishes Japan’s post-1945 ascendancy: the Yasukuni War Museum.
从表面来看，靖国神社内是一幅典型的日本景致，庭院经过了精心的维护，神道教的祭司们举止飘逸。但走出主殿不远，参观者就会看到一个包纳了谎言和真伪混同的欺骗性陈述的神坛——靖国神社战争博物馆，正是这些谎言损害了日本的战后影响力。
Here are historical narratives that glorify Japan’s brutal colonization of Korea from 1910 to 1945 and the 1937 invasion of China, which involved the massacre of hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians. The attack on Pearl Harbor is even presented as contributing to “world peace.”
这里对历史的记述美化了日本1910年到1945年对朝鲜半岛的残酷殖民统治，美化了1937年对中国的侵略。在对华侵略中，数十万的中国平民遭到屠杀。而对珍珠港的袭击更是被称为对“世界和平”的贡献。
The museum also houses a memorial to the Indian jurist Radhabinod Pal, who was the sole judge on the postwar International Military Tribunal for the Far East to argue that all the Japanese defendants were not guilty. The message is clear: Japan fought for peace, fell victim to the more powerful Allies, and was served victor’s justice.
这座博物馆还包括了一块献给印度法官拉达比诺德·帕尔(Radhabinod Pal)的纪念碑。帕尔是战后远东国际军事法庭(International Military Tribunal for the Far East)里唯一一位认为日本被告全都无罪的法官。所传递的信息很明确：日本为和平而战，遭到了更强大的同盟国的迫害，是“成王败寇”的受害者。
This grossly distorted version of Japan’s war record, not surprisingly, ignites righteous indignation among Japan’s neighbors. But Mr. Abe has done more than give offense. His visit has undermined the American strategy of “rebalancing” in Asia — in particular, the Obama administration’s efforts to bolster its alliance with Japan and South Korea, in the context of China’s expansionist foreign policy and the ever-present security threat posed by North Korea.
这种对日本战争历史的极度歪曲毫无意外地点燃了邻国的义愤情绪。但安倍晋三的行为不仅具有攻击性。他的参拜行为还破坏了美国的亚洲“再平衡”战略，特别是在中国实施扩张性外交政策和朝鲜不断发出安全威胁的情况下，破坏了奥巴马政府增强美、日、韩同盟的种种努力。
South Korea has rebuffed Japan for over a year thanks to historical slights precisely of this nature. Prospects for renewed talks had improved in recent weeks, but it is now extremely unlikely that there will be any thaw. To Washington’s dismay, Mr. Abe’s disregard for Koreans’ sense of the trauma about the Japanese occupation has given South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, no option but to cool relations.
正是日本过往的这类冒犯行为，让韩国在一年多的时间里拒绝与日本合作。最近几周，恢复谈判的希望本已增加，但如今看来，缓和局势的可能性极小。令华盛顿气馁的是，安倍晋三无视朝韩人民因日本占领所受的创痛，这让韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)别无选择，只有继续让韩日关系降温。
The specter raised by Japan’s new national security strategy — with its implication of military operations beyond its borders — already made Japan’s neighbors wary. Now, because of the Yasukuni Shrine visit, some may band together against the perceived aggressor.
日本新的国家安全战略——暗指日本可以在境外采取军事行动——所带来的恐惧已经让日本的邻国有所警惕。如今，由于安倍晋三参拜靖国神社，其中一些可能会联合起来，反对它们眼中的这个侵略者。
Seoul and Beijing are already discussing measures to address the “Japan problem” — a bilateral conversation that will perturb the Americans. Any fissure in the United States-Japan-South Korea coalition is good news for China and North Korea, which have been fretting over America’s endorsement of Japan’s new national security policy. A possible result is that China will pursue still more aggressively its claim over the disputed islands. North Korea may try to fan anti-Japanese sentiment in South Korea, as well as create security threats to test the alliance of democracies.
首尔和北京已经在讨论应对“日本问题”的举措，而这种双边交流令美国感到不安。对于中国和朝鲜来说，美、日、韩联盟出现的任何裂痕都是好消息，它们一直因美国对日本新国家安全政策的支持而烦恼。一个可能出现的结果是，中国会以更加凶猛的势头来主张争议岛屿的主权。而朝鲜则可能会努力煽动韩国的反日情绪，并发起安全威胁来测试这些民主国家的联盟。
Mr. Abe may have intended, as he said, simply to pray for the souls of his nation’s war dead. But in the eyes of the world, his pilgrimage to the Yasukuni Shrine appeared a willful evocation of Japan’s pre-1945 imperialism and repudiation of its post-1945 legacy of peace. This was a move that may ultimately serve the interests of China and North Korea, rather than Japan. Given the perception of an unabashedly aggressive Japan that he has created, Mr. Abe will find an already challenging foreign policy environment considerably more daunting as he faces an expansionist China, belligerent North Korea, indignant South Korea and exasperated America.
安倍晋三的意图也许真的是像他说的那样，只是为日本的战争亡灵祈祷。但在世界的眼中，他对靖国神社的参拜显然是在蓄意召唤日本1945年以前实施的帝国主义，也是对1945年以后种种和平努力的否定。这一举动到头来将有助于拓展中国和朝鲜的利益，而不是日本的。正是因为安倍晋三为日本塑造了这样一个毫不掩饰的好战者的形象，他将会看到，一个原已充满挑战的外交政策环境，在面临实行扩张主义的中国、好斗的朝鲜、义愤填膺的韩国和恼怒的美国的情况下，变得更加严竣。