The Senate on Thursday approved sweeping sanctions against Russia, forcing President Trump to decide whether to accept a tougher line against Moscow or issue a politically explosive veto amid investigations into ties between his presidential campaign and Russian officials.
参议院周四批准了对俄罗斯实施广泛制裁，这将迫使特朗普总统做出决定，究竟是同意对莫斯科采取更加强硬的立场，还是在他的竞选团队与俄罗斯官员之间的往来正在接受调查之际，行使会引发政治爆炸的否决权。
The Senate vote, 98-2, followed the passage of a House bill earlier this week to punish Russia, Iran and North Korea for various violations by each of the three American adversaries. In effect, it would sharply limit the president’s ability to suspend or lift sanctions on Russia, and won near unanimous support across the Republican-led Congress.
在参议院以98票赞成、2票反对的结果通过制裁之前，众议院在本周早些时候通过了一项惩罚俄罗斯、伊朗和朝鲜的议案。美国这三个对手受罚是因为它们出现了各种各样的违规行为。实际上，这会大幅限制总统暂停或取消对俄罗斯制裁的能力，并在共和党领导的国会赢得近乎一致的支持。
Mr. Trump’s team has argued it needs flexibility to pursue a more collaborative diplomacy with Russia which, by American intelligence consensus, interfered in last year’s presidential election. But now the president will face a decision he had hoped to avoid as the legislation slowly churned through Congress.
特朗普的团队辩称需要灵活性，才能寻求与俄罗斯建立合作性更强的外交关系。美国情报界则一致认为，俄罗斯干预了去年的大选。但现在，总统需做出决定。他本希望随着相关立法在国会慢慢走流程，自己能避免做这个决定。
White House aides have acknowledged privately that a veto would be politically awkward — at the least — for Mr. Trump to justify during the continuing investigations into whether his campaign colluded with Moscow.
白宫的助手私下承认，在对他的竞选团队是否与莫斯科合谋的调查仍在继续的情况下，特朗普为否决制裁辩解至少会让他在政治上处境尴尬。
Last week, after House and Senate leaders announced an agreement on sanctions, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the incoming White House press secretary, suggested that Mr. Trump would sign the final package. Since then, though, the administration has hedged, saying that Mr. Trump will have to review the measure.
上周，在参众两院的领袖宣布就制裁达成一项协议后，新任白宫发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)表示，特朗普会签署最终的一揽子制裁。但自那之后，特朗普政府闪烁其词，称特朗普不得不对这一举措进行评估。
“The administration supports sanctions against Russia, Iran and North Korea. We continue to support strong sanctions against those three countries,” Ms. Sanders said on Thursday. “And we’re going to wait and see what that final legislation looks like, and make a decision at that point.”
“政府支持制裁俄罗斯、伊朗和朝鲜。我们继续强烈支持对三个国家实行严厉的制裁，”桑德斯周四说。“我们也会等着看最终的法律是什么情况，届时再做决定。”
The sanctions target human rights abusers, suppliers of weapons to the Assad regime in Syria and those undermining cybersecurity, among others. The House passed its version on Tuesday, by a vote of 419-3. The Senate last month passed a similar bill, 98-2, that punished only Russia and Iran.
这些制裁的对象包括侵犯人权者、向叙利亚的阿萨德政权提供武器的供应商和破坏网络安全者。众议院周二以419票赞成、3票反对的结果通过了自己的议案。上月，参议院以98比2的结果通过了一项只惩罚俄罗斯和伊朗的类似议案。