WASHINGTON — As the government shutdown dragged on, Senator Susan Collins of Maine was spending another weekend on Capitol Hill, staring at C-Span on her Senate office television as one colleague after another came to the floor to rail about the shuttered government.
华盛顿——美国政府停摆依旧，缅因州参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)正在国会山(Capitol Hill)度过又一个周末。当同僚们接二连三地登上参议院演讲台，对关门的政府加以怒斥的时候，她在自己的办公室里密切关注着C-SPAN电视网的报道。
Frustrated with the lack of progress, Ms. Collins, a Republican, two Saturdays ago quickly zipped out a three-point plan that she thought both parties could live with, marched to the Senate floor and dared her colleagues to come up with something better. A few days later, two other Republican female senators eagerly signed on — Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who overcame the Tea Party to win re-election in 2010, and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, who benefited from the Tea Party wave.
两星期前的周六，对僵局解决的进展倍感失望的共和党人柯林斯，迅速拟定了一项在她看来两党都能接受的、包含三个要点的方案，并走进参议院，鞭策其同僚拿出更好的意见。没过几天，另外两位女性共和党参议员便热切地签名附议。她们分别是在2010年打败茶党成功连任的阿拉斯加州参议员丽莎·穆尔科斯基(Lisa Murkowski)，以及在茶党运动中获益的新罕布什尔州参议员凯利·阿约特(Kelly Ayotte)。
Together the three women started a bipartisan group whose negotiating framework formed the centerpiece of a tentative Senate deal nearing completion Monday to reopen the federal government and avert a disastrous default.
三位女性共同推动设立了一个两党协商小组。其谈判框架构成了周一在参议院几近达成的一项协议的核心内容，该协议旨在让联邦政府重新开始正常运作，并避免发生灾难性的违约事件。
“Before I went to the Senate floor, no one was presenting any way out,” Ms. Collins said. “I think what our group did was pave the way, and I’m really happy about that.”
“在我站上参议院演讲台之前，没有人给出任何解决办法。”柯林斯说，“我认为我们的小组为问题的解决铺平了道路，我对此真的感到高兴。”
In a Senate still dominated by men, women on both sides of the partisan divide proved to be the driving forces that shaped a negotiated settlement. The three Republican women put aside threats from the right to advance the interests of their shutdown-weary states and asserted their own political independence.
事实证明，在目前仍由男性主导的参议院，站在党派鸿沟两岸的女性议员，成了两党以谈判解决问题的推动力。这三位女性共和党人所属的州因政府停摆而陷入困顿，她们抛开来自右翼力量的威胁，为各自的州争取利益；并由此宣布了她们自身在政治上的独立。
“I probably will have retribution in my state,” Ms. Murkowski said. “That’s fine. That doesn’t bother me at all. If there is backlash, hey, that’s what goes on in D.C., but in the meantime there is a government that is shut down. There are people who are really hurting.”
“我可能会在我自己的州受到惩罚。”穆尔科斯基说，“这没什么，根本不会让我感到困扰，即便是遭到强烈反对，嘿，这种情况正在华盛顿上演，但与此同时政府仍处于停摆状态，人们因此正在受到伤害。”
Two powerful women on the Democratic side of the aisle — Senators Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland and Patty Murray of Washington — took a hard line and pressed their Republican counterparts to temper their demands, but they also offered crucial points of compromise.
民主党方面两位极具影响力的女性——马里兰州参议员芭芭拉·A·米库尔斯基(Barbara A. Mikulski)和华盛顿州参议员帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)——态度颇为强硬，两人向共和党对手施压，要求他们在提条件时有所节制，但她们也提出了关键性的折衷意见。
Together, the five senators starkly showed off the increasing power of women — even those who are not on the relevant committees — as their numbers grow in the upper chamber. Of the 13 senators on a bipartisan committee who worked on the deal framework, about half were women, even though women make up only 20 percent of the Senate. Senator John McCain of Arizona joked at several points in their meetings, “The women are taking over.”
上述五位参议员一同发力，切实展示出了这样一种倾向：随着进入参议院的女性越来越多，女性——甚至是未在相关委员会任职的女性——拥有的影响力正日益增强。女性议员在参议院中仅占比20%，但在由13名参议员组成的负责制定协议框架的两党协商小组中，女性几乎占了半壁江山。亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)在开会时数次开玩笑说：“女人正接管政坛。”
Senator Joe Manchin III, Ms. Collins’s first Democratic collaborator, said: “That gender mix was great. It helped tremendously.” He added: “Would it have worked as well if it had been 12 women or 12 men? I can’t say for sure, but it worked pretty well with what we had.”
柯林斯从民主党方面争取到的第一个合作伙伴参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)表示：“这样的性别结构非常棒。它帮助极大。”他补充道：“要是小组里有12个女人或者12个男人，是否也能如此顺利？我说不准。但小组在现有性别结构下运行得相当顺畅。”
The women are hardly in lock step politically. But their practice of meeting regularly and working on smaller bills together, even in a highly polarized Congress, set the stage for more significant legislation. Ms. Ayotte and Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, hosted an informal get-together for women in the Senate last Monday evening.
这些女性在政治上并非步调完全一致。但即便在高度两极化的国会里，她们也总是定期碰头，共同为较小的议案奔忙，从而为意义更重大的立法做好准备。上周一晚上，阿约特和新罕布什尔州民主党参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)组织了一场非正式的女参议员聚会。
“I don’t think it’s a coincidence that women were so heavily involved in trying to end this stalemate,” Ms. Collins said. “Although we span the ideological spectrum, we are used to working together in a collaborative way.”
“女性如此深入地参与其中，竭力打破僵局，我不认为这只是一个巧合。”柯林斯说，“尽管我们在意识形态上相去甚远，但我们已经习惯于以合作的方式一起工作。”
More than two weeks into a government shutdown, Washington is now two short days from a possible default on federal obligations. The women showed pragmatism as negotiators in the midst of fierce partisanship and a level of frustration with the leaders of both parties that reflect their constituents and the nation.
政府停摆已经超过两周，再过短短两天时间，华盛顿方面就可能面临联邦政府债务违约。在激烈的党派纷争之中，在各界对两党领导人倍感失望之际，在这种失望普遍映射到他们的选民以及整个国家的时候，女性议员作为谈判者展现出了实用主义的一面。
“Where we find ourselves right now is unacceptable for America,” Ms. Ayotte said on the Senate floor. “It’s unacceptable as leaders that have been elected by the people of this country. We owe it to our constituents to resolve this now.”
“而今，我们现在的所作所为对美国来说是不能接受的。”阿约特在参议院说道，“作为被这个国家的人民选举出来的领导人，这是无法接受的。我们现在必须解决问题，这是我们对选民应尽的责任。”