WASHINGTON — If there is a rock bottom in the frayed relationship between Senate Republicans and Democrats, it seemed uncomfortably close this week as the final days of 2013 on Capitol Hill degenerated into something like an endurance contest to see who could be the most spiteful.
华盛顿——如果说参议院共和党人和民主党人之间的紧张关系存在最低点，那么，本周他们似乎已经离这个最低点近得可怕了，因为2013年的最后一段日子在国会山(Capitol Hill)上恶化成了一场看谁最恶毒的耐力赛。
As they headed into their second late-night session of confirmation votes Thursday evening, the Democrats’ way of retaliating for Republican delay tactics, senators were chugging Red Bull, sleeping in their offices and angrily assigning blame.
周四晚上，参议员们即将进入第二次提名确认投票深夜会议，这个时间的会议是民主党人报复共和党拖延战术的方式。于是，参议员们大口大口地喝着红牛，在办公室里睡觉，愤怒地发出指责。
“I think it resembles fourth graders playing in a sandbox, and I’ll give the majority leader, Harry Reid, 99 percent of the responsibility for it,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and usually one of the more reserved members.
“我觉得，这就像是一群四年级学生在沙盒里玩，我认为多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)应该对此负99%的责任，”田纳西州共和党参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)说。他通常是比较含蓄内敛的。
“He’s going to have ‘The End of the Senate’ written on his tombstone,” Mr. Alexander groused.
“他应该把‘参议院的终结’这几个字写在自己的墓碑上，”亚历山大埋怨道。
Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, called this week “chaotic and confusing, and a shameful waste of time.”
康涅狄格州民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)称，本周“混乱、令人困惑，是对时间的可耻浪费”。
“I am loath to cast partisan blame,” he added, before doing just that. “But the plain fact is that there is a faction of the Republican Party that is essentially insisting on burning through all of these time deadlines.”
“我不愿归罪于某个党派，”他补充说。不过，他接下来就这么干了，“但明摆着的事实是，共和党里的一部分人基本上是在坚持拖过所有这些最后期限。”
Republicans, furious that Democrats last month stripped away most of their power to filibuster presidential nominations, are using every procedural barricade available to them in the Senate’s two-century-old rule book, forcing it to run the clock as long as possible while they vote on a series of President Obama’s nominees.
上月，民主党取缔了共和党通过拖延阻挠总统提名的大部分权力，对此感到愤怒的共和党人正在从参议院有200年历史的规章手册中拿出一切可用的程序障碍，尽量拖慢参议院对奥巴马总统的一系列提名进行投票的进程。
Democrats, hoping to make the situation so unpleasant for their colleagues across the aisle that they eventually break, are scheduling votes at all hours of the day and night. Mr. Reid, is threatening to refuse to let anyone go home until a backlog of dozens of nominees is gone — even if that means spending Christmas Eve in the Capitol.
民主党人希望弄得对方阵营的议员极不舒服，以此迫使对方投降，于是便不分昼夜地在各个时间段安排投票。里德威胁称不会让任何人回家，直到积压的几十个候选人的投票结束为止，哪怕这意味着议员们要在国会山上过平安夜。
Mr. Reid has votes planned through Saturday afternoon and will push through another battery of nominations next week, including some that would each require 30 hours of debate, like that of Janet L. Yellen to lead the Federal Reserve.
里德安排的投票会一直持续到周六下午，而且会在下周推动另一批候选人的投票，部分候选人需要每人30小时的辩论，比如被提名掌舵美联储的珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)。
What members of both parties bemoaned more than anything was not the lack of civility or bipartisan cooperation — which they seem to have given up on long ago — but what they said they see as the irreversible damage inflicted on an institution they claim to revere.
两党成员怨气最大的并不是缺少礼貌或两党合作——这些东西他们似乎早就不指望了——而是他们声称自己看到的一个事实 ，那就是他们自称敬畏有加的制度受到了不可挽回的损害。
“If Bob Byrd had been here he would have had a stroke,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, referring to the late Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the senator whom Republicans and Democrats hold up as the embodiment of senatorial dignity and forbearance.
“鲍勃·C·伯德(Robert C. Byrd)要是在这里的话，肯定已经中风了。”犹他州共和党参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)说。他指的是已故的西弗吉尼亚州参议员罗伯特·C·伯德，共和党人和民主党人都认为他体现了举止得体、容忍克制的参议员操守。
Some senators expressed concern that this moodier, more intemperate Senate would become the norm now that Democrats have unilaterally changed filibuster rules.
一些参议员表示担忧，既然民主党已经单方面改变了拖延战术的规则，更加情绪化、更加不受控制的参议院将会成为一种常态。
“It’s the beginning of what we were worried about,” said Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, one of just three Democrats who did not support the rules change. “It’s just concerning, very much concerning, where it goes from here.”
西弗吉尼亚州参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)说，“我们担忧的情况才刚刚开始。事情的未来发展确实让人担忧，让人极度担忧。”有三名民主党参议员不支持变动规则，他也是其中之一。
The Democratic push was producing results as the Senate confirmed Cornelia T. L. Pillard, one of the nominees at the heart of the fight with Republicans over the filibuster, to the country’s most powerful appeals court, the District of Columbia Circuit, shortly after 1 a.m. on Thursday by a 51-to-44 vote.
民主党的努力正在产生成果，周四凌晨1点刚过不久，参议院以51票对44票的表决结果，确认了对科妮莉亚·T·L·皮拉德(Cornelia T. L. Pillard)的提名。皮拉德将到美国最具权力的上诉法院哥伦比亚特区巡回法院任职，在这场关于拖延战术的斗争中，她是处于两党较量核心的候选人之一。
As the day wore on, several other nominees were confirmed as well.
周四，随着时间的推移，其他几名候选人的任命也被一一确认。
Republicans complained that instead of tackling the many substantive issues that the Senate should resolve before the end of the year, lawmakers were wasting their time on midlevel, nonessential nominations.
共和党人抱怨说，参议员把时间浪费在了重要性一般、无关痛痒的任命提名问题上，没有去处理应该在年底之前解决的诸多重大议题。
“I can’t imagine what folks think,” said Senator Deb Fischer, Republican of Nebraska, chastising her colleagues.
内布拉斯加州共和党参议员德布·费希尔(Deb Fischer)谴责她的同僚说，“我无法想象，他们究竟在想些什么。”
The Senate is a body where one member can slow down just about anything. Much of its business is accomplished through unanimous consent, which allows senators to move through more mundane tasks like approving low-level nominations very quickly.
在参议院这个机构，任何一个成员都有能力拖慢任何一件事务的进程。它的许多事务都需要获得全体参议员的认可，这种做法使得参议员可以非常迅速地推进较为普通的任务，比如批准低层次的任命提名。
Republicans have held up the votes on dozens of Mr. Obama’s pending nominees by refusing to provide unanimous consent to wave the time that is allotted for debate. Instead, they are using the debate time to take to the Senate floor to vent.
共和党人已经阻挠了为奥巴马提名的待确认候选人举行的数十次表决，方法是拒绝给予一致认可，这样一来，规定的辩论时间就不能免除。不但如此，他们还利用辩论时间在参议院发泄怨气。
“Let’s be really frank,” said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky. “Senate Democrats have for petty partisan reasons taken away the power of Congress, taken away one of the checks and balances on a rogue presidency.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Paul told the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call that he did not think there would be anything approved by unanimous consent “until hell freezes over.”
肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)说，“坦白说吧，出于小肚鸡肠的党派考虑，参议院民主党人夺走了国会的权力，夺走了制衡一任蛮横总统的一种手段。”当日早些时候，保罗对国会山的报纸《点名》(Roll Call)表示，他认为，在“地狱冻结”之前，参议院不会以全体同意的方式批准任何提名。