WASHINGTON — The Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously approved legislation granting Congress a voice in negotiations on the Iran nuclear accord, sending the once-controversial legislation to the full Senate after President Barack Obama withdrew his opposition rather than face a bipartisan rebuke.
华盛顿——参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)一致通过法案，在有关伊朗核协议的谈判中给予国会发言权。这项一度存在争议的法案将由参议院全体议员表决。奥巴马总统为了免遭两党指责而改变了反对立场。
Republican opponents of the nuclear agreement on the committee sided with Obama's strongest Democratic supporters in demanding a congressional role as international negotiators work to turn this month's nuclear framework into a final deal by June 30.
该委员会中反对核协议的共和党人与极力支持奥巴马的民主党人站在一边，要求在国际谈判代表努力于6月30日前将本月达成的框架协议转变成最终协议的过程中，让国会发挥一定作用。
The bill would mandate that the administration send the text of a final accord, along with classified material, to Congress as soon as it is completed. It also halts any lifting of sanctions during a congressional review and culminates in a possible vote to allow or forbid the lifting of congressionally imposed sanctions in exchange for the dismantling of much of Iran's nuclear infrastructure. It passed 19-0.
该法案将要求奥巴马政府在最终协议定稿后，立即将协议文本连同机密资料提交给国会。该法案还禁止在国会审阅协议期间解除制裁，法案也规定，可能会通过投票来决定，是否允许解除国会施加的制裁，来换取伊朗拆除大部分核设施。该法案以19比0的票数获得通过。
”We're involved here. We have to be involved here. Only Congress can change or permanently modify the sanctions regime,” said Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, the committee's ranking Democrat, who served as a bridge between the White House and Republicans as they negotiated changes in the days before Tuesday's vote.
马里兰州参议员、参议院外交关系委员会民主党资深成员本杰明·L·卡汀(Benjamin L. Cardin)表示，“我们介入过，我们必须介入。只有国会才能改变或永久性修订制裁举措。”白宫和共和党在周二举行投票之前就相关变动进行过谈判，卡汀充当了双方之间的桥梁。
While Obama was not “particularly thrilled” with the bill, said Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, the president decided the new proposal put together by the top Republican and Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was acceptable.
白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)表示，尽管奥巴马没有对该法案感到“特别激动”，但他认为，这份由参议院外交关系委员会的共和党及民主党领袖共同提交的新法案，是可以接受的。
“What we have made clear to Democrats and Republicans in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is that the president would be willing to sign the proposed compromise that is working its way through the committee today,” Earnest told reporters.
欧内斯特对记者表示，“我们已经向参议院外交关系委员会的民主党及共和党成员表明，总统愿意签署该委员会今天通过的这份妥协性法案。”
The compromise between Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., the committee's chairman, and Cardin would shorten a review period for a final Iran nuclear deal and soften language that would make the lifting of sanctions dependent on Iran's ending support for terrorism.
田纳西州共和党参议员、委员会主席鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)和卡汀之间达成的妥协，缩短了伊朗核协议最终文本的审核期限，而且软化了解除制裁的前提是伊朗要停止支持恐怖主义的措辞。
The agreement almost certainly means Congress — over the White House's stern objections — will muscle its way into nuclear negotiations that Obama sees as a legacy-defining foreign policy achievement. It still must be voted on, but leaders in both parties expressed their support. One senior Democratic aide said the bill would have overwhelming, veto-proof support in the full Senate.
这番妥协几乎肯定意味着国会将对核谈判进行干预——尽管白宫强烈反对。在奥巴马看来，伊朗核谈判将是一个决定政治遗产的外交政策成就。该法案还需要表决通过，但是两党领导人都表示了支持。一名资深民主党助手表示，法案将得到全体参议员的压倒性支持，即使被总统否决也能通过。
With passage certain, White House officials insisted the president only changed his position because of substantial changes to the bill itself. Corker called that spin, saying the president switched sides in the face of a steamroller.
尽管该法案肯定能得到通过，但白宫官员坚持表示，总统之所以改变立场，是因为法案本身做出了很多修改。考克称，这是白宫在美化自己，他表示法案得到了普遍支持，总统才改变了立场。