WASHINGTON — A scathing report released by the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday found that the Central Intelligence Agency routinely misled the White House and Congress about the information it obtained from the detention and interrogation of terrorism suspects, and that its methods were more brutal than the C.I.A. acknowledged either to Bush administration officials or to the public.
华盛顿——本周二，参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)发布了一份措辞严厉的报告，称中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）就其从羁押和审讯恐怖嫌疑人过程中获得的信息，经常对白宫和国会进行误导，而且CIA采用的方法也比它向布什政府官员或者公众承认的更加残酷。
The long-delayed report, which took five years to produce and is based on more than six million internal agency documents, is a sweeping indictment of the C.I.A.'s operation and oversight of a program carried out by agency officials and contractors in secret prisons around the world in the years after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. It also provides a macabre accounting of some of the grisliest techniques that the C.I.A. used to torture and imprison terrorism suspects.
这份拖延已久的报告历时五年制作，它以600多万份内部文件为基础，对CIA在2001年9月11日恐怖袭击后数年中采取的活动提起了全面控诉，并对CIA人员及其承包商在全球各地秘密监狱中开展的行动进行了介绍。它还描述了CIA监禁并刑讯逼供恐怖嫌疑人的残酷手段，令人毛骨悚然。
Detainees were deprived of sleep for as long as a week, and were sometimes told that they would be killed while in American custody. With the approval of the C.I.A.'s medical staff, some C.I.A. prisoners were subjected to medically unnecessary “rectal feeding” or “rectal hydration” — a technique that the C.I.A.'s chief of interrogations described as a way to exert “total control over the detainee.” C.I.A. medical staff members described the waterboarding of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the chief planner of the Sept. 11 attacks, as a “series of near drownings.”
被羁押者最多会遭受长达一周的睡眠剥夺，有时会被告知，他们在被美国当局关押期间会遭到处决。在CIA医务人员批准的情况下，一些囚犯遭受了不必要的医疗性“直肠进食”或“直肠补水”——CIA审讯主管称这是他们用来“完全控制被羁押者”的一种方法。其医务人员描述说，9·11袭击的总策划者哈立德·谢赫·穆罕默德(Khalid Shaikh Mohammed)遭受水刑时，达到了“连续几次接近溺亡的状态”。
The report also suggests that more prisoners were subjected to waterboarding than the three the C.I.A. has acknowledged in the past. The committee obtained a photograph of a waterboard surrounded by buckets of water at the prison in Afghanistan commonly known as the Salt Pit — a facility where the C.I.A. had claimed that waterboarding was never used. One clandestine officer described the prison as a “dungeon,” and another said that some prisoners there “literally looked like a dog that had been kenneled.”
报告还显示，虽然CIA承认对三名囚徒实施了水刑，但实际人数更多。该委员会拿到了一张照片，显示在一座俗称“盐坑”(Salt Pit)的阿富汗监狱里，水刑器具的周围环绕着水桶。CIA曾声称，从来没有在这座监狱使用过水刑。一位身份保密的探员将这座监狱形容为“地牢”，另一人则称，一些囚犯“看起来真的就像是关在狗舍里的狗”。
During his administration, President George W. Bush repeatedly said that the detention and interrogation program, which President Obama dismantled when he succeeded him, was humane and legal. The intelligence gleaned during interrogations, he said, was instrumental both in thwarting terrorism plots and in capturing senior figures of Al Qaeda.
前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)当政期间曾多次表示，羁押和审讯项目是讲求人道的、合法的。他说，在审讯过程中搜集到的情报，无论是在挫败恐怖阴谋方面，还是在抓捕基地组织(Al Qaeda)高层方面，都起到了重要作用。奥巴马总统接任后，取消了这些项目。
Mr. Bush, former Vice President Dick Cheney and a number of former C.I.A. officials have said more recently that the program was essential for ultimately finding Osama bin Laden, who was killed by members of the Navy SEALs in May 2011 in Abbottabad, Pakistan.
布什、前副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)及一些前CIA官员后来还表示，对于最终找到奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)，这些项目是至关重要的。2011年5月，本·拉登在巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德被海豹突击队成员击毙。
The Intelligence Committee’s report tries to refute each of these claims, using the C.I.A.'s internal records to present 20 case studies that bolster its conclusion that the most extreme interrogation methods played no role in disrupting terrorism plots, capturing terrorist leaders — even finding Bin Laden.
情报委员会的这份报告试图使用CIA的内部记录来逐条反驳这些说法。报告列出了20项案例研究，来支持这样一条结论：对于破坏恐怖阴谋、抓捕恐怖分子头目——甚至是找到本·拉登本人——来说，那些最极端的审讯手法并未起到作用。
The report said that senior officials — including the former C.I.A. directors George J. Tenet, Porter J. Goss and Michael V. Hayden — repeatedly inflated the value of the program in secret briefings both at the White House and on Capitol Hill, and in public speeches.
文中称，无论是在向白宫和国会山做秘密汇报时，还是在公开发言中，CIA的高级官员——包括前局长乔治·J·特尼特(George J. Tenet)、波特·J·戈斯(Porter J. Goss)和迈克尔·V·海登(Michael V. Hayden)——都一再夸大了这些手段的价值。
Moments after the report was released Tuesday morning, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the chairwoman of the Intelligence Committee, gave a lengthy speech on the Senate floor describing the tumultuous history of her investigation and calling the C.I.A. interrogation program “a stain on our values and our history.”
报告于本周二上午发布，之后很快，情报委员会的女主席、来自加州的民主党参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)就在参议院会场发表了长篇讲话，描述这次调查的坎坷经历，并把CIA的审讯项目称作我们“在价值观和历史上的一个污点”。
“Releasing this report is an important step to restoring our values and showing the world that we are a just society,” she said.
“公布这份报告，是恢复我们的价值观，并向世界展示我们是公正社会的一项重要举措，”她说。
As Ms. Feinstein was preparing to speak, the C.I.A. director, John O. Brennan, issued a response that both acknowledged mistakes in the detention and interrogation program and angrily challenged some of the findings of the Senate report as an “incomplete and selective picture of what occurred.”
就在范斯坦准备发言之时，CIA局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)发布了回应声明，一方面承认了在羁押和审讯项目中的错误，另一方面愤怒地对参议院报告发出质疑，称其中的一些结论是在“有选择性地描述事实，并不全面”。
“As an agency, we have learned from these mistakes, which is why my predecessors and I have implemented various remedial measures over the years to address institutional deficiencies,” Mr. Brennan said.
“作为一家机构，我们已经从这些错误中汲取了教训。正因为如此，这些年来，我的前任以及我本人采取了各种补救措施，来应对体制性缺陷，”布伦南说。
But despite the mistakes, he added, “the record does not support the study’s inference that the agency systematically and intentionally misled each of these audiences on the effectiveness of the program.”
但是，尽管有错误，他也说，“我们的记录并不支持这项研究的推断，即对于项目的有效性，CIA有计划有步骤地故意误导有关各方。”
The entire report is more than 6,000 pages long, but the committee voted in April to declassify only its 524-page executive summary and a rebuttal by Republican members of the committee. The investigation was conducted by staff members working for Democratic senators on the committee.
整份报告长逾6000页，但今年4月，情报委员会投票决定仅公开其中524页的摘要，以及该委员会中的共和党议员对它的反驳意见。这项调查由委员会中的民主党参议员手下的工作人员进行。
The New York Times and other news organizations received an advance copy of the report and agreed not to publish any of its findings until the Senate Intelligence Committee made them public. The Times did not receive an advance copy of the Republican rebuttal.
《纽约时报》和其他一些新闻机构收到了这份报告的预印本，并同意在参议院情报委员会正式公开之前不发布任何调查结果。时报没有收到共和党人反驳意见的预印本。
Many of the most extreme interrogation methods — including waterboarding — were authorized by Justice Department lawyers during the Bush administration. But the report also found evidence that a number of detainees had been subjected to other, unapproved methods while in C.I.A. custody.
很多最为极端的审讯手段——包括水刑——获得了布什政府的司法部法律顾问的授权。但这份报告也发现，在被CIA羁押期间，不少人曾遭受其他一些未经授权的刑罚折磨。
The torture of prisoners at times was so extreme that some C.I.A. personnel tried to put a halt to the techniques, but were told by senior agency officials to continue the interrogation sessions.
有时在押人员遭受了非常残酷的折磨，连一些CIA工作人员都试图加以制止，但他们被局里的高级官员要求继续刑讯逼供。
The Senate report quotes a series of August 2002 cables from a C.I.A. facility in Thailand, where the agency’s first prisoner was held. Within days of the Justice Department’s approval to begin waterboarding the prisoner, Abu Zubaydah, the sessions became so extreme that some C.I.A. officers were “to the point of tears and choking up,” and several said they would elect to be transferred out of the facility if the brutal interrogations continued.
参议院的这份报告援引了2002年8月从CIA在泰国的一处设施发出的一系列电报。那里是CIA关押其第一名囚徒的地方。在司法部授权使用水刑之后，不到几天的时间里，这个名叫阿布·朱贝达(Abu Zubaydah)的在押人员就遭受了极为残酷的刑讯逼供，以致于一些CIA探员“开始流泪和哽咽”。其中有几个人表示，如果这样残忍的审讯继续进行下去，他们就会申请调出这座设施。
During one waterboarding session, Abu Zubaydah became “completely unresponsive with bubbles rising through his open, full mouth.” The interrogations lasted for weeks, and some C.I.A. officers began sending messages to the agency’s headquarters in Virginia questioning the utility — and the legality — of what they were doing. But such questions were rejected.
在一次遭受水刑时，阿布·朱贝达“完全没有了反应，气泡从他大大张开的嘴里冒出”。审讯持续了好几周，一些CIA探员开始将消息发送到设在弗吉尼亚州的CIA总部，质疑这种行为的有效性和合法性。但是这样的问题遭到了驳回。
“Strongly urge that any speculative language as to the legality of given activities or, more precisely, judgment calls as to their legality vis-à-vis operational guidelines for this activity agreed upon and vetted at the most senior levels of the agency, be refrained from in written traffic (email or cable traffic),” wrote Jose A. Rodriguez Jr., then the head of the C.I.A.'s Counterterrorism Center.
“强烈要求，克制在书面通讯(电子邮件或电报)中使用任何对这些活动的合法性进行推测的语言，或者更加确切地说，对于在CIA最高层进行了审核并达成了一致的行动方针使用评判其合法性的语言，”小何塞·A·罗德里格斯(Jose A. Rodriguez Jr.)写道。他当时是CIA反恐中心(Counterterrorism Center)的负责人。
“Such language is not helpful.”
“这样的措辞有弊无利。”
The Senate report found that the detention and interrogation of Mr. Zubaydah and dozens of other prisoners were ineffective in giving the government “unique” intelligence information that the C.I.A. or other intelligence agencies could not get from other means.
参议院的这份报告认为，羁押和审讯阿布·朱贝达和其他很多在押人员，并未让政府有效地获得CIA等情报机构无法从其他途径搜集到的“特别”情报。
The report also said that the C.I.A.'s leadership for years gave false information about the total number of prisoners held by the C.I.A., saying there had been 98 prisoners when C.I.A. records showed that 119 men had been held. In late 2008, according to one internal email, a C.I.A. official giving a briefing expressed concern about the discrepancy and was told by Mr. Hayden, then the agency’s director, “to keep the number at 98” and not to count any additional detainees.
文中还说，CIA领导层多年来一直在该局关押的总人数上给出错误信息，对外声称羁押了98人，而其记录上却显示关有119名男性。根据一封内部电子邮件，2008年底，一名将要进行通报的CIA官员表达了自己对个中差异的担忧，但被当时的局长海登告知，“继续用98这个数字”，不要算上其他在押人员。
The committee’s report concluded that of the 119 detainees, “at least 26 were wrongfully held.”
委员会的报告得出结论，在这119名在押人员中，“至少有26人遭到错误羁押。”
“These included an ‘intellectually challenged’ man whose C.I.A. detention was used solely as leverage to get a family member to provide information, two individuals who were intelligence sources for foreign liaison services and were former C.I.A. sources, and two individuals whom the C.I.A. assessed to be connected to Al Qaeda based solely on information fabricated by a C.I.A. detainee subjected to the C.I.A.'s enhanced interrogation techniques,” the report said.
“其中包括一名‘智障’男性，而CIA对他的关押纯粹是为了迫使他的一名亲戚提供情报；另有两人是对外联络部门的线人，过去也曾是CIA的线人；还有两人被CIA判定与基地组织有关，而唯一的依据是另一名CIA在押人员在它的加强型审讯技巧下编造的信息，”文中写道。
Many Republicans have said that the report is an attempt to smear both the C.I.A. and the Bush White House, and that the report cherry-picked information to support a claim that the C.I.A.'s detention program yielded no valuable information. Former C.I.A. officials have already begun a vigorous public campaign to dispute the report’s findings.
许多共和党人宣称，这份报告意在同时诋毁CIA和布什政府，其中有失偏颇地挑选了一类信息，用以支持CIA的关押项目未能获得有价值信息的说法。一些CIA的前任官员已经开始大张旗鼓地发动舆论攻势，以驳斥报告的结论。
In its response to the Senate report, the C.I.A. said that to accept the Intelligence Committee’s conclusions, “there would have had to have been a yearslong conspiracy among C.I.A. leaders at all levels, supported by a large number of analysts and other line officers.
在回应这份参议院报告时，CIA表示，倘若接受情报委员会的结论，“那就意味着CIA各级领导层多年来一直在进行密谋，而且得到了大量分析师和其他执行任务的探员的支持。”
“This conspiracy would have had to include three former C.I.A. directors, including one who led the agency after the program had largely wound down,” it added.
“这样的阴谋得要牵扯上CIA的三位前局长，包括项目基本停止后领导CIA的那位局长，”它还称。
According to the Senate report, even before the agency captured its first prisoner, C.I.A. lawyers began thinking about how to get approval for interrogation methods that might normally be considered torture. Such methods might gain wider approval, the lawyers figured, if they were proved to have saved lives.
按照参议院报告的说法，早在CIA抓获第一名在押人员之前，该局的法律顾问们就开始考虑如何让那些通常会被视为刑讯逼供的审讯手法获得批准。他们的结论是，如果此类手法被证明拯救了生命，那么就可能更广泛地得到接受。
“A policy decision must be made with regard to U.S. use of torture,” C.I.A. lawyers wrote in November 2001, in a previously undisclosed memo titled “Hostile Interrogations: Legal Considerations for C.I.A. Officers.”
在之前披露的备忘录《不友好审讯：CIA探员的法律考虑》(Hostile Interrogations: Legal Considerations for C.I.A. Officers)中，CIA的法律顾问们在2001年11月写道，“在美国使用酷刑方面，必须在政策层面做出决断。”
The lawyers argued that “states may be very unwilling to call the U.S. to task for torture when it resulted in saving thousands of lives.”
这些法律顾问认为，“当刑讯逼供导致成千上万条生命得到拯救，或许各国会非常不情愿就此抨击美国。”
The Intelligence Committee report describes repeated efforts by the C.I.A. to make that case, even when the facts did not support it. For example, the C.I.A. helped edit a speech by Mr. Bush in 2006 to make it seem as if key intelligence was obtained through the most brutal interrogation tactics, even when C.I.A. records suggested otherwise.
情报委员会的报告描述了CIA如何反复拿出这条理由，就连事实并不支持这一论断的时候也如此。比方说，2006年，CIA参与了布什一次演讲的稿件修改工作，让它呈现给听众的感觉是，关键的情报是通过最严酷的审讯手法获得的，尽管CIA的记录显示并非如此。
In 2002, the C.I.A. took custody of Abu Zubaydah, who was brought to Thailand. There, two C.I.A. contractors named James E. Mitchell and Bruce Jessen were in charge of the interrogation sessions, using methods that had been authorized by Justice Department lawyers. The two contractors, both psychologists, are identified in the Senate report under the pseudonyms Grayson Swigert and Hammond Dunbar.
2002年，CIA羁押了阿布·朱贝达，并将其送到泰国。在那里，CIA的两名承包商——詹姆斯·E·米切尔(James E. Mitchell)和布鲁斯·赫森(Bruce Jessen) ——负责审讯环节，采用了司法部的法律顾问授权的手法。这两名承包商均为心理学家，在参议院的报告中分别采用了化名格雷森·斯威格特(Grayson Swigert)和哈蒙德·邓巴(Hammond Dunbar)。
The program expanded, with dozens of detainees taken to secret prisons in Poland, Romania, Lithuania and other countries. In September 2006, Mr. Bush ordered all of the detainees in C.I.A. custody to be transferred to the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and after that the C.I.A. held a small number of detainees in secret at a different facility for several months at a time — before they were also moved to Guantánamo Bay.
随着审讯项目的扩大，数十名在押人员被送往波兰、罗马尼亚和立陶宛等国的秘密牢房。2006年9月，布什下令将CIA扣押的所有人员送往古巴关塔那摩监狱。后来，CIA一度将少数在押人员秘密扣留在另一处设施中达数月之久，然后才将其送往关塔那摩基地。