WASHINGTON — The Senate Intelligence Committee has asked the C.I.A. for an internal study done by the agency that lawmakers believe is broadly critical of the C.I.A.’s detention and interrogation program but was withheld from congressional oversight committees.
华盛顿——参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)要求中情局(CIA)上交它的一份内部研究报告，因为议员们认为，该报告对中情局的拘留和审讯项目进行了广泛的批判，但却没有呈交国会的监督委员会。
The committee’s request comes in the midst of a yearlong battle with the C.I.A. over the release of the panel’s own exhaustive report about the program, one of the most controversial policies of the post-Sept. 11 era.
提出该要求之前，参议院情报委员会已经与中情局进行了整整一年的斗争，争论是否发布该委员会关于该项目的详尽报告。该项目是9·11后争议最大的政策之一。
The Senate report, totaling more than 6,000 pages, was completed last December but has yet to be declassified. According to people who have read the study, it is unsparing in its criticism of the now-defunct interrogation program and presents a chronicle of C.I.A. officials’ repeatedly misleading the White House, Congress and the public about the value of brutal methods that, in the end, produced little valuable intelligence.
参议院的报告共有6000多页，于去年12月完成，但迄今没有解密。读过这份研究报告的人说，它毫不留情地批判了如今已不存在的审讯项目，还记录了中情局官员如何一再就这些残酷手段的价值误导白宫、国会和公众，而这些手段并最终也没有带来太多有价值的情报。
Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, disclosed the existence of the internal report during an Intelligence Committee hearing on Tuesday. He said he believed it was begun several years ago and “is consistent with the Intelligence’s Committee’s report” although it “conflicts with the official C.I.A. response to the committee’s report.”
周二，科罗拉多州民主党参议员马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)在一次情报委员会听证会上披露，中情局有一份关于该项目的内部报告。他说，他认为这份报告始于几年前，虽然“与中情局对情报委员会报告的官方回应存在冲突”，但却“与情报委员会的报告一致”。
“If this is true,” Mr. Udall said during a hearing on the nomination of Caroline D. Krass to be the C.I.A.’s top lawyer, “this raises fundamental questions about why a review the C.I.A. conducted internally years ago — and never provided to the committee — is so different from the C.I.A.’s formal response to the committee study.”
“果真如此的话，”尤德尔在卡洛琳·D·克拉斯(Caroline D. Krass)就任中情局首席律师的提名听证会上说，“我们就面临着一个根本性的问题，也就是说，为什么中情局几年前进行的内部审核——审核结果并未呈交本委员会——会与中情局对委员会研究结果的正式回应如此不同。”
The agency responded to the committee report with a vigorous 122-page rebuttal that challenged both the Senate report’s specific facts and its overarching conclusions. John O. Brennan, one of Mr. Obama’s closest advisers before taking over the C.I.A. this year — and who denounced the interrogation program during his confirmation hearing — delivered the agency’s response to the Intelligence Committee himself.
中情局对委员会的报告做出了长达122页的强力反驳，对参议院报告的一些具体事实及其整体结论表示了质疑。中情局的回应是由今年就任中情局局长的约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)亲自提交的，他此前是奥巴马最亲密的顾问之一，还曾在自己的提名确认听证会上谴责过前述审讯项目。
It is unclear what the agency specifically concluded in its internal review.
目前尚不清楚，中情局在其内部审核中得出了什么样的具体结论。
Mr. Udall, whose public criticisms of the National Security Agency’s bulk collection of telephone data has raised his profile in Congress and won him praise from privacy advocates, said he would not support Ms. Krass’s nomination until the C.I.A. provided more information to the committee about the interrogation program.
因为公开批判国家安全局(National Security Agency)大规模收集电话数据的行为，尤德尔提高了自己在国会的人气，并且赢得了隐私权倡导者的赞扬。他说，除非中情局能向委员会提供更多关于审讯项目的信息，否则他不会支持克拉斯的提名。
Ms. Krass did not respond directly to Mr. Udall’s statements about the internal C.I.A. review. Dean Boyd, an agency spokesman, said the agency was “aware of the committee’s request and will respond appropriately.”
克拉斯没有直接回应尤德尔有关CIA内部报告的声明。中情局发言人迪恩·博伊德(Dean Boyd)表示，中情局“已经知悉情报委员会的要求，并将做出适当回应”。
Mr. Boyd said that the C.I.A. agreed with a number of the conclusions of the voluminous Senate investigative report, but found “significant errors in the study.”
博伊德表示，中情局赞同参议院长篇调查报告的一些结论，但也发现了“调查报告当中的一些重大错误”。
“C.I.A. and committee staff have had extensive dialogue on this issue, and the agency is prepared to work with the committee to determine the best way forward on potential declassification,” he said.
他说，“中情局和情报委员会的工作人员已经就该问题进行了广泛的对话，中情局准备与情报委员会合作，以便确定推进潜在解密项目的最佳方式。”
President Obama ended the detention program as one of his first acts in the Oval Office, and has repeatedly denounced the C.I.A.’s interrogation methods under the program. During a speech in May, he said that the United States had “compromised our basic values by using torture to interrogate our enemies, and detaining individuals in a way that ran counter to the rule of law.”
奥巴马总统结束了该拘留项目，这是他入住椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)之后的第一批举措之一。此外，奥巴马曾多次对中情局依据该项目使用的审讯方法表示谴责。在今年5月的一次讲话中，奥巴马表示，美国“对我们的敌人进行刑讯，以违反法治精神的方式拘留个人，这些做法已经危害了我们的基本价值观”。
And yet Mr. Obama has repeatedly resisted demands by human rights groups to seek prosecutions for the lawyers who approved the interrogation methods or the people who carried them out, and the White House has been mostly silent during the debate over the past year about declassifying the Senate report.
尽管如此，奥巴马仍然一再拒绝人权组织的要求，后者寻求起诉那些认可此类审讯方法的律师，以及那些实施此类方法的审讯人员。过去一年，在围绕解密参议院报告的争论当中，白宫大部分时间都保持沉默。
For all his criticisms of the counterterrorism excesses during the Bush administration, Mr. Obama has put the C.I.A. at the center of his strategy to kill militant suspects in Pakistan, Yemen and elsewhere.
奥巴马对布什政府的过度反恐行动提出了不少批评，但却还是对中情局委以重任，让后者主持实施消灭巴基斯坦和也门等地可疑武装分子的战略。
Human rights groups have tried to pressure the White House to intervene to get the Senate report declassified.
人权组织一直在向白宫施压，希望白宫出手干预，使前述参议院报告得到解密。
“Whether it’s stalling or concealing, the C.I.A. is trying to avoid reckoning with its past abuse,” said Naureen Shah of Amnesty International USA. “And that’s what makes declassifying the Senate’s report so crucial right now.”
“无论是拖延还是隐瞒，中情局的目的无非是避免过去的滥权行为遭到清算，”国际特赦组织美国分会(Amnesty International USA)的瑙雷恩·沙阿(Naureen Shah)说。“因此，就目前而言，解密参议院报告的举措已经非常关键。”
Ms. Krass is a career government lawyer who works at the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, the arm of the department that advises the White House on the legality of domestic and foreign policies.
克拉斯是一名专职政府律师，供职于司法部法律顾问办公室(Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel)。该部门为白宫提供有关国内外政策合法性的建议。
The office was particularly controversial during the Bush administration, when lawyers there wrote lengthy memos approving C.I.A. interrogation methods like waterboarding and sleep deprivation, as well as signing off on the expansion of surveillance by the National Security Agency.
在布什执政时期，该办公室引发了尤其激烈的争议，当时，该办公室的一些律师撰写长篇备忘录来支持中情局的审讯方法，比如水刑和剥夺睡眠，并且赞同国家安全局扩大监控规模的计划。