WASHINGTON — With a possible default on government obligations days away, talks between the Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate on Sunday failed to break an impasse over the spending level for a stopgap measure to reopen the government two weeks after much of it shut down.
华盛顿——美国距潜在的政府债务违约仅几天之遥，参议院民主党和共和党领袖于周日举行的对话却仍未打破僵局，未能就政府重新开门所需临时政策的开支达成一致，尽管大部分美国政府部门已关门两周。
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, spoke cordially by telephone but remained deadlocked. The stumbling block is over spending levels, the length of a debt ceiling increase and how long a temporary spending measure should keep the government open until a longer-term budget deal can be reached.
参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)和共和党领导人、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)进行了亲切友好的电话交谈，但僵局仍未打破。障碍在于开支水平、债务上限增加的时限，以及达成长期预算协议前，应该在多长时间内通过临时开支政策使政府保持运行。
Republicans reacted with frustration over what they saw as the shifting demands of a Democratic leadership intent on inflicting maximum damage on adversaries sinking in the polls and increasingly isolated.
共和党认为，民主党领导层的要求不断转变，意图对在民意测验中走下坡路的越来越孤立的对手造成最大打击。共和党人对此深感沮丧。
But Democratic aides said a deal taking shape among a bipartisan group of senators offered Democrats nothing beyond a reopening of the government and temporary assurances that the government will not default in the coming days. Those should be seen not as concessions but as basic obligations of Congress, they say.
一个跨党派参议员团体拿出了一份协议，但是民主党助手表示，该协议只能让民主党人重开政府大门，并为政府在未来数日内不违约提供临时保证。他们说，这些条件不应被视作让步，只应被视作国会的基本义务。
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said earlier on ABC’s “This Week” that he could feel a deal “coming together” as Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell prepared for their second day of talks.
早些时候，南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)在美国广播公司(ABC)“本周”(This Week)节目中说，里德和麦康奈尔正在准备他们的第二日谈话，他能感到一项决议“正在达成”。
But Mr. Graham also warned his colleagues that the longer the showdown lasted, the more damage they were doing to Congress. “To my colleagues in the House on both sides, and to my friends in the Senate, we’re ruining both institutions,” he said.
但是，格雷厄姆也警告自己的同僚，政府关门的时间越长，他们对国会造成的损害就越大。他说，“我要告诉我在众议院的两党同僚，以及我在参议院的朋友，我们对两个机构都造成了损害。”
Earlier, Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, said Mr. Obama was to blame for his refusal to deal with the fiscal crisis. “This is the first time in history that a president of the United States has said, ‘Look, I’m not even going to talk about it,'” Mr. Portman said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” He added later: “The president should engage. You’ve got to deal with the underlying problem, which is the spending problem.”
早些时候，俄亥俄州共和党参议员罗布·波特曼(Rob Portman)说，奥巴马应该因为拒绝应对财政危机而受到谴责。“有史以来，这是美国总统第一次说，‘听着，我绝不会谈论这个问题，’”波特曼美国全国广播公司(NBC)的节目《会见媒体 》(Meet the Press)上说。他随后补充道：“总统应该参与其中。你必须处理深层的问题，也就是开支问题。”
On CNN’s “State of the Union,” Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, played down fears that a default on the debt this week would be the cause of a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating, as happened during a similar showdown in 2011. The downgrade, he said, was not caused by the threat of default, but by the size of the United States’ debt.
在CNN的《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中，肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)淡化了这种担忧，亦即本周如果出现债务违约，将导致美国的信用评级遭到下调，就像2011年政府停摆期间的情况一样。他表示，导致评级下调的并不是违约风险，而是美国的债务规模。
“The vast majority of people are afraid of what this growth of our debt is going to do to us,” he said.
他说，“绝大多数人都在担心，这样的债务增长会给我们带来什么样的影响。”
On Saturday, Mr. Reid said he was slightly optimistic about his dialogue with Mr. McConnell. “I hope that our talking is some solace to the American people and the world,” he said.
周六，里德表示，对于与麦康奈尔的对话，他的态度略为乐观。他说，“我希望，我们的对话能给美国人民及整个世界带来些许安慰。”
The relationship between the two men has been so chilly that it took two other senators, Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, to arrange the meeting.
两人的关系一直非常冷淡，以致于他俩的会晤需要纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)和田纳西州共和党参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)来安排。
For Speaker John A. Boehner and other House Republicans, the options were much grimmer. If Mr. Boehner compromises, he risks angering the conservatives who dominate his conference. For its part, the White House is sticking with its stance that it will not negotiate until the government is reopened and the debt ceiling is raised.
对于众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)及其他众议院共和党人来说，眼前的选择比他俩糟糕得多。博纳如果做出让步，就有可能激怒主导众议院的保守派。白宫方面则坚持自己的立场，要到政府重新运行、债务上限获得提高之后才参与谈判。
With concerns growing that global financial markets could be thrown into turmoil if Congress does not agree to raise the debt ceiling, Republicans said they did not know whether Mr. Boehner would have enough support from the most conservative members in his conference to put a Senate plan up for a vote — if the leaders reach a deal.
人们担心，如果国会不同意提高债务上限，国际金融市场可能会陷入动荡。随着这种担忧的加剧，共和党人表示，他们并不知道，在各方领导人达成协议的情况下，博纳能否在保守派占大多数的众议院获得足够支持，就参议院提出的计划进行投票。
Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, said: “The problem here is that we don’t have a functioning majority. After three weeks of this, they’re still not figuring it out. I don’t know what it takes.”
加利福尼亚州共和党众议员德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)表示，“问题在于我们没有一个能发挥作用的多数群体。这种情况已经持续了三周，他们却仍然没有想出解决问题的办法。我不知道这需要什么条件。”
With the latest developments, Representative Aaron Schock, Republican of Illinois, said there had been “a total breakdown in trust” between House Republicans and the administration.
随着最新进展的出现，伊利诺伊州共和党众议员阿龙·朔克(Aaron Schock)表示，众议院共和党人和政府之间的“信任已经完全崩溃”。
Feelings ran so high on the House floor on Saturday morning that there was a brief altercation between Representative Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat, and Chris Vieson, the floor director for Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader. There were conflicting reports about whether the conflict became physical or was confined to words, but both sides said they had apologized.
周六上午，众议院的气氛十分火爆，以至纽约州民主党众议员约瑟夫·克劳利(Joseph Crowley)和多数党领袖、弗吉尼亚州众议员埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)的督票人员克里斯·维森(Chris Vieson)发生了短暂的争执。对于冲突是涉及肢体还是仅限言辞，各种报道相互矛盾，但双方都已表示，他们已经道了歉。