WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Thursday engineered a dramatic change in how the chamber confirms Supreme Court nominations, bypassing a Democratic blockade of Judge Neil M. Gorsuch in a move that will most likely reshape both the Senate and the high court.
华盛顿——为了绕过民主党人设下的障碍，以确认尼尔·M·戈萨奇(Neil M. Gorsuch)的最高法院大法官提名，参议院共和党人于周四对规则做出了重大改变，这种做法很可能重塑参议院和最高法院。
After Democrats held together Thursday morning and filibustered President Trump’s nominee, Republicans voted to lower the threshold for advancing Supreme Court nominations from 60 votes to a simple majority.
民主党人于周四上午团结起来，阻挠特朗普总统的提名人获得确认，之后，共和党人投票决定降低通过最高法院大法官提名人的门槛，从60票多数通过变为简单多数通过。
In deploying this so-called nuclear option, lawmakers are fundamentally altering the way the Senate handles one of its most significant duties, further limiting the minority’s power in a chamber that was designed to be a slower and more deliberative body than the House.
通过部署这种所谓的核武方案，议员们从根本上改变了参议院行使其最重要职责之一的方式，进一步限制了少数派在参议院内的权力，而参议院原本被设计为比众议院更慢、更审慎的机构。
The move, once unthinkable among senators, is a testament to the creeping partisan rancor in recent years, after decades of at least relative bipartisanship on Supreme Court matters. Both parties have warned of sweeping effects on the court itself, predicting the elevation of more ideologically extreme judges now that only a majority is required for confirmation.
这个举动对于参议员来说曾经是不可思议的，证明了两党经过几十年来在最高法院方面进行相对的合作之后，党派怨恨在最近数年间缓慢积累起来。两党都就这种做法对最高法院本身的彻底影响发出过警告，既然现在法官人选只需要多数便可以确认通过，预测会出现更多意识形态上有极端观点的法官。
Senate Democrats in 2013 first changed the rules of the Senate to block Republican filibusters of presidential nominees to lower courts and to government positions, but they left the filibuster in place for Supreme Court nominees. That last pillar was knocked down on a party-line vote, with all 52 Republicans voting to overrule Senate precedent and all 48 Democrats and liberal-leaning independents voting to keep it.
2013年，参议院的民主党人首先改变了参议院的规则，以防止共和党人对总统提名的下级法院和政府职位人选进行阻挠，但他们保留了对最高法院大法官提名人的阻挠。这最后的一根支柱在党派投票中被打倒了，全部52名共和党人投票否决参议院先例，全部48名民主党人和自由派倾向的独立人士投票保留这一先例。
The Senate then voted 55-45 to cut off debate — four votes more than needed under the new rules — and move to a final vote on Gorsuch’s confirmation Friday evening, with a simple majority needed for approval.
然后，参议院以55-45的投票结果结束辩论——根据新规则，这已经超出所需票数四票——并将于周五晚上对戈萨奇的确认进行最后一次投票，只要简单多数通过便可批准提名。
Lawmakers first convened late Thursday morning to decide whether to end debate and advance to a final vote on Gorsuch. Republicans needed 60 votes — at least eight Democrats and independents joining the 52-seat majority — to end debate on the nomination and proceed to a final vote. Only a handful of Democrats defected, and the vote failed, 55-45, leaving Republicans to choose between allowing the president’s nominee to fail or bulldozing long-held Senate practice.
议员们最初于周四上午晚些时候召开了第一次会议，决定是否结束辩论，并开始对戈萨奇的批准进行最终投票。共和党人需要60票——共和党在参议院内占据52人的多数席位，需要至少有8名民主党人和独立人士加入他们——才能结束对提名的辩论，进入最终投票。只有少数民主党人背离党派立场，投票以55-45失败，因此共和党人要么坐视总统的提名人失败，要么就得推翻参议院的长期做法。
Republicans have argued that changing the rules to push through the nomination was their only option, seeking to shift responsibility for blowing up the Senate’s long-standing practices to the Democrats.
共和党人认为，改变规则，推动提名获得通过是他们唯一的选择，并试图将推翻参议院长期做法的责任推给民主党。
“This is the latest escalation in the left’s never-ending judicial war, the most audacious yet,” Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said after describing Democratic opposition in the past to Judge Robert Bork and Justice Clarence Thomas.
多数党领袖，肯塔基州参议院米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)描述了过去民主党对罗伯特·伯克(Robert Bork)法官和克拉伦斯·托马斯(Clarence Thomas)大法官的反对行为，之后表示，“这是左派无休止的司法战争中的最新一次恶化，是最肆无忌惮的一次。”
At the same time, critics of Gorsuch have cited concerns over Gorsuch’s record on workers’ rights and whether he will be reliably independent from Trump and conservative groups like the Federalist Society, among other issues.
与此同时，戈萨奇的批评者也引用了戈萨奇在工人权利方面的记录，对他表示质疑，特别是他是否可以独立于特朗普和联邦党人协会(Federalist Society)等保守派团体。