AUCKLAND, New Zealand — Wetex Kang, a Malay-Chinese immigrant beekeeper, may be the first Asian candidate to represent the Maori Party of New Zealand, but at times he sounds more like a certain American president.
新西兰奥克兰——以养蜂为业的马来华裔移民江威德(Wetex Kang)是新西兰毛利党(Maori Party of New Zealand)推举出的第一位亚裔候选人，但有时候，他听上去更像某位美国总统。
“I think we can make this country great again,” he said last month while driving through the electoral district of Botany in Auckland.
“我认为我们可以恢复这个国家的伟大荣光，”上月，他在驾车穿行于奥克兰波坦尼(Botany)选区之际说道。
That phrasing is intentional — Mr. Kang says he admires President Trump’s brash ability to grab attention. Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Kang is a political newcomer who at times says exactly what he is thinking. And Mr. Kang calls himself a “semi-self-made millionaire” who believes the country should be run like a business.
这种措辞是江威德有意为之——他说他钦佩特朗普总统在吸引眼球方面的挥洒自如。像特朗普一样，江威德是政界新人，有时心里想什么，嘴上就会说什么。此外，江威德自称“半白手起家的百万富翁”，他认为应该把这个国家当成企业来管理。
But when it comes to policy, his vision of national greatness sounds decidedly different: “I’m standing for a true voice for immigrants. I stand for bridging the inequality in this country, and helping the tangata whenua realize their true potential,” Mr. Kang, 44, said, using the Maori word for the original inhabitants of New Zealand.
但在政策方面，他的成就伟大国家的愿景听上去截然不同：“我会代表移民发出真正的声音。我要为弥合这个国家不平等的沟壑而奋斗，并帮助tangata whenua发挥他们真正的潜能，”现年44岁的江威德说。“tangata whenua”是毛利语，指代新西兰的原居民。
For the Maori Party, Mr. Kang’s candidacy for a seat in the House of Representatives, which will be put to a vote on Saturday, is an attempt to see if the party can attract the support of a group outside New Zealand’s mostly white political establishment: the Chinese community. Mr. Kang is campaigning on a platform that promises to address concerns over racial discrimination and tightening immigration policies. And backed by a famous but controversial activist in the Maori nationalism movement, Tame Iti, Mr. Kang’s campaign could be the beginning of a partnership between some of the country’s oldest and newest ethnic communities.
江威德竞选的是众议院议员之职，投票将于周六进行。对毛利党来说，提名江威德为候选人，是为了看看该党能否从身处新西兰以白人为主的政治建制势力之外的一个群体，也就是华人社群那里获得支持。江威德在竞选纲领中承诺，要消除人们对种族歧视和日益收紧的移民政策的担忧。此外，江威德的竞选得到了毛利民族主义运动中一位声名赫赫但也充满争议性的活动人士——泰美‧伊蒂(Tame Iti)的支持，这可能成为在新西兰堪称最老和最新的两个族群之间合作的开端。
While that alliance may sound unusual, Marama Fox, a co-leader of the Maori Party, which was formed in 2004 to represent indigenous interests, said that its endorsement of Mr. Kang made sense because of a widely shared genealogy.
此种联盟听上去或许不同寻常，但毛利党领导人之一玛拉马·福克斯(Marama Fox)说，这两个族群在很大程度上一脉相承，因此支持江威德是说得通的。毛利党成立于2004年，代表的是土著的利益。
“We’ve done DNA studies from the Pacific — they link us to Taiwan, to Easter Island,” she said.
“我们在太平洋周边地区做了DNA研究——那些研究把我们和台湾还有复活节岛(Easter Island)联系了起来，”她说。
She also said that Mr. Kang’s outsider candidacy demonstrated the traditional Maori value of “manaakitanga,” in which newcomers are treated with warmth and hospitality.
她还表示，推举外来者江威德为候选人，体现了“manaakitanga”这一毛利人的传统价值观，意即热情好客。
Maria Bargh, a political scientist at Victoria University of Wellington, said that, in political terms, Mr. Kang’s candidacy was an intriguing strategy for a party that received only 1.3 percent of the vote in the last general election. “They’re looking for new places to get some votes, basically,” she said.
惠灵顿维多利亚大学(Victoria University of Wellington)的政治学家玛丽亚·巴格(Maria Bargh)认为，对于在上一次大选中的得票率只有1.3%的毛利党来说，推出江威德这样一个候选人是一种很有趣的策略。“基本上，他们是在发掘新的选票来源，”她说。
In many ways, Mr. Kang reflects the amalgam of the multicultural immigrant experience. Born in a fishing village in Malaysian Borneo, he emigrated first to Australia, then to New Zealand as a student with his sister. After graduating with a degree in pharmacology, he worked as a life coach and a nutritionist, and he now has a beekeeping business. He married a white New Zealander, and their two children have Chinese middle and last names. Before he arrived in Australia, he said, he did not speak any English.
在很多方面，江威德体现着多文化移民经验的融合。他出生于马来西亚婆罗洲的一个渔村，先是移民澳大利亚，然后以学生的身份和姐姐一起来到新西兰。大学毕业获得药学学位后，他当过人生教练和营养师，现在开着一个养蜂场。他与一位新西兰白人结了婚，育有两个孩子，孩子的中名和姓氏均为中文。他说他在抵达澳大利亚之前是不讲英文的。
He first met Mr. Iti while working as a nutritionist, helping the Maori activist lose weight and become “half the man he was,” Mr. Kang joked.
结识伊蒂时，江威德的身份是帮他减肥的营养师，他开玩笑说，在他帮助下，伊蒂“减掉了半个自己”。
This year, Mr. Kang casually broached to Mr. Iti the idea of joining the Maori Party. A week later, at Mr. Iti’s urging, he found himself in a candidate training workshop preparing for his first political campaign.
今年，江威德不经意地向伊蒂提起他想加入毛利党。一周后，在伊蒂的敦促下，他参加了一个候选人培训工作坊，为自己的第一次政治竞选做准备。
Mr. Iti’s support has been crucial to Mr. Kang’s candidacy. While Mr. Iti is a respected figure in the Maori community, others see him as a radical. In 2007, Mr. Iti was arrested in an antiterrorism raid and later convicted of illegal firearms possession.
伊蒂的支持对江威德的候选人地位至关重要。伊蒂在毛利社群中备受尊敬，但被其他一些人视为激进分子。2007年，伊蒂在一场反恐突查中被捕，随后被控非法持有枪支。
“It’s always been on my bucket list,” Mr. Kang said of his entry into politics. But his lack of traditional experience has been apparent. Before an August debate that included Chinese representatives from the National, Labour and People’s Parties, his plan was to provoke his two opponents to “help them be better politicians.”
“这一直都在我的梦想清单上，”江威德谈及自己踏足政界的决定时表示。但显而易见，他缺少传统意义上的经验。他在8月份参加了一场辩论会，与国家党、工党、人民党的华裔候选人一道亮相，在那之前，他的计划是刺激自己的两个对手，“帮助他们成为更好的政治人物”。
During the event, Mr. Kang ignored conventional debate structures. He directed questions at the crowd, confronted the assembled politicians about their governing records, and was chastised by moderators for speaking out of turn.
辩论场上，江威德无视传统的辩论规则。他把问题抛向人群，围绕当天出席的那些政治人物的从政记录对他们进行质问，还因为不按顺序发言而被主持人批评。
At one point, he pulled a bemused Mr. Iti onstage to make a point about unity, before Mr. Iti retreated amid protest from the other representatives, the moderators and the audience.
他一度把一脸茫然的伊蒂拉上台，以阐释团结的重要性，随后伊蒂在其他候选人、主持人和观众的抗议声中退到台下。
“I was not there to debate,” Mr. Kang said as he drove home afterward in a car stuffed with campaign signs. “I was there to be memorable.”
“我去那不是为了辩论，”后来，江威德在开着一辆塞满竞选标牌的车回家时表示。“我去那是为了被人记住。”
How that memorability will pay off is uncertain. While Mr. Kang is drawing attention, not all of it is positive. Last week, an inquiry by the Electoral Commission cleared him of allegations that his campaign bribed voters with online cash credits. He said the allegations were a smear campaign by people he had turned down for his campaign team.
如此这般被记住会带来怎样的回报，目前还很难说。江威德正引起关注，但并非所有关注都是正面的。上周，选举委员会(Electoral Commission)开展的一项调查帮他洗清了其竞选团队以网络红包贿赂选民的指控。他说这些指控是想要加入他的竞选团队却被他拒绝的人发起的抹黑行动。
Analysts do not give Mr. Kang much of a chance to win. But should he succeed, the Maori Party would be well placed to benefit from his ties to the Asian community, which is becoming an increasingly powerful voting bloc. According to the latest New Zealand census, the Chinese population has grown 16 percent since 2006. Two-thirds of them live in Auckland, and the Botany electorate, which Mr. Kang hopes to represent, is almost 40 percent Asian, the highest percentage of Asian residents in the country. Maori and Pacific Island people make up 18 percent of residents there.
分析人士认为江威德的赢面不大。但如果他获得成功，毛利党便可以从他和亚裔社群的关联中获益。该社群正成为一个影响力日益扩大的选民群体。新西兰最新一次人口普查结果显示，自2006年以来，华裔人口增长了16%。三分之二华裔住在奥克兰；而江威德希望代表的波坦尼选区，是该国亚裔居民比例最高的地方，亚裔几乎占比40%。毛利人和太平洋岛屿人在该选区居民中共占比18%。
According to one government projection, New Zealand’s Asian population will overtake the Maori in about 20 years.
据政府预测，再过20年左右，新西兰的亚裔人口数量会超越毛利人。
The electorate in Botany, a sprawling, largely residential area broken up by strips of restaurants and shops, was created in 2007 in response to population growth in the area, a spokeswoman for the Electoral Commission said. Botany has always voted overwhelmingly for the governing center-right National Party.
波坦尼选区面积很大，基本是个居住区，零星点缀着一些餐厅和店铺。据选举委员会发言人介绍，该选区之所以在2007年成立，是因为当地人口不断增长。波坦尼选区的绝大多数选民一向都把票投给中右翼执政党国家党。
David Soh, the editor of Mandarin Pages, a Chinese-language newspaper in Auckland, said that New Zealand’s prime minister, Bill English, had already visited his office twice this election cycle, a demonstration of the growing influence of Chinese voters.
华文报纸《华页》(Mandarin Pages)的主编苏文德(David Soh)说，这个选举周期内，新西兰总理比尔·英格利希(Bill English)已经到他的办公室来过两次，这说明华裔选民的影响力越来越大。
Mr. Kang has generated a lot of interest in the community, Mr. Soh said. “Immigration, economic growth — those are the Asian values,” he said, adding that “this is a very innovative thing for Maori.”
苏文德说，江威德让华裔选民很感兴趣。“移民，经济增长——这些都是亚裔看重的，”他还说，“对毛利人而言，这是一件很有创意的事情。”
Even politicians from other parties have been supportive of Mr. Kang’s campaign, possibly because they do not see him as a threat.
就连来自其他党派的一些政治人物也支持江威德参选，或许是因为他们并不把江威德视为威胁。
“This is a good try on his behalf,” Raymond Huo, a lawmaker with the Labour Party, said before the debate last month. But for Mr. Kang to win, he added, it would be “magical, a miracle.”
“这对他来说是很好的尝试，”工党议员霍建强(Raymond Huo)在上月的辩论会开始前表示。但要是江威德赢了，他说，那会“很神奇，是个奇迹”。
Not everyone is convinced by the unified front the Maori Party is presenting. Vivian Zhou, 40, a Chinese resident in Botany, said it was unusual for an Asian to run for the Maori Party. Maori, she said, are treated better than Chinese because they were born in New Zealand. “Because most Chinese immigrated from overseas, they have no background,” she said. “They start over from zero.”
并非每一个人都认同毛利党正在构建的联合阵线。现年40岁的华裔波坦尼居民薇薇安·周(Vivian Zhou)表示，由一名亚裔代表毛利党参选显得非同寻常。她说，毛利人得到的待遇好于华裔，因为他们出生在新西兰。“大多数华裔都移民自海外，他们没有背景，”她说。“他们得从零开始。”
But in a phone interview this week, Mr. Kang said his message had resonated with the Chinese community, who he said felt they had been treated as second-class citizens in New Zealand.
但江威德在本周的电话采访中表示，他传递的讯息在华裔社群中引发了共鸣。他说新西兰的华裔是一个常常觉得自己被当成二等公民来对待的群体。
“Oh, they love me,” he said. “I can’t go anywhere without stopping to take photos with people. We’re going to win.”
“噢，他们喜欢我，”他说。“我无论走到哪里都得停下来和人合影。我们会赢的。”