SAN FRANCISCO — It sounds like heresy around here. But here goes:
旧金山——这话在这里像异端邪说。但我们还是要问：
Is this another tech bubble?
又一场科技泡沫出现了吗？
Back East, the Wall Street money is starting to worry that it feels like 1999 all over again. Money-losing technology companies are going public at you’ve-got-to-be-joking prices. The founders of Snapchat are getting multibillion-dollar offers — and turning them down. And the Nasdaq composite index, a visible symbol of the ’90s dot-com boom and bust, is a sneeze away from 4,000, a level it last reached just before, well, you know.
在东边，华尔街的投资者开始担心起来，感觉好像1999年的事情正在重新上演。赔钱的科技公司正在上市，发行价高得离谱。Snapchat的创始人收到了数十亿美元的收购要约——并且还拒绝了它们。而纳斯达克综合指数，上世纪90年代互联网泡沫及其破裂的一个明显标志，眼看就要重返4000点大关，上次它升到4000点之后发生了什么，你也知道。
Is this time different? Out in Silicon Valley, many insist it is. But for the average investor, there are reasons for caution.
现在和当年不一样了吗？硅谷倒是有很多人坚定地表示不一样。但对于普通投资者来说，小心谨慎一些也不无道理。
Since the dark days of 2008, the Nasdaq has risen more than 150 percent, twice as much as the old-school Dow industrials. Money has been pouring into social media stocks. As of Friday, Twitter had risen nearly 60 percent since it went public only a few weeks earlier.
自从2008年那些黑暗的日子以来，纳指累计涨幅超过了150%，是老派的道琼斯工业平均指数(Dow industrials)的两倍。大量资金涌入社交媒体类股票。截至上周五，上市不过数周的Twitter累计涨幅已接近60%。
Once again, new “metrics” are being applied to justify stratospheric valuations. Twitter is losing money. A price-to-earnings ratio? There is no E in the P/E. But its stock is trading at 20-odd times the company’s annual sales. Good enough.
再一次，一些人使用新的“指标”来证明其高不可攀的估值是合理的。Twitter正在亏损。市盈率？它的P/E里根本就没有E。但Twitter的股票交易规模是其年销售额的20多倍。这就已经够好了。
There is more. Technology companies have become the takeover bait du jour. A report issued by Ernst & Young last week said that mergers and acquisitions in the global technology industry have rebounded to “a new post-dot-com bubble high.” Roughly $71 billion in deals were made during the third quarter.
不仅如此。科技公司如今已成为热门的收购对象。安永会计师事务所(Ernst & Young)上周发布的一份报告称，全球科技行业的并购水平已经反弹到了“互联网泡沫后的新高”。今年第三季度，全球并购交易涉及金额约710亿美元（约合人民币4326亿元）。
And then there is Kozmo.com, the poster child of the dot-com bust. Kozmo is back. Last time, its couriers would deliver just about anything at any hour — CDs, Milky Way bars, you name it. It burned through $280 million before going bust.
再有就是Kozmo.com，互联网泡沫破灭的代表性公司，它又卷土重来了。上一次，这家公司的快递员几乎可以在任何时候配送任何东西——不管是光盘、银河巧克力棒，还是随便什么。它在倒闭之前，烧钱烧掉了2.8亿美元。
“Remember us?” a banner on the Kozmo.com reads now. “We’re relaunching soon.”
“还记得我们吗？”Kozmo.com网站上的一个横幅上写着，“我们很快将重新开始。”
Many technology entrepreneurs and venture capitalists say there is little to worry about. Which tells you something about bubbles and Silicon Valley. It is difficult to know when any bubble is going to pop until it does. And in Silicon Valley, with its inherent optimism in brighter tomorrows, the view tends to be that the way is always up.
很多科技创业者和风险投资家都说，这没有什么可担心的。从他们的表现中，你可以看到泡沫和硅谷的一些特点。任何泡沫，直到破裂之前，你都很难知道它将在何时破裂。而硅谷天生有一种乐观精神，觉得明天会更好，那里的人看事情也有一种“只浮不沉”的倾向。
“I’m not going to say there is a bubble or there isn’t a bubble,” said Naval Ravikant, co-founder of AngelList, a website for raising money for start-ups. “But I lived through the first bubble, and I was in disbelief the entire time, and I don’t see anything of that magnitude or scale here today.”
“我不想说泡沫存在与否，”AngelList的联合创始人纳瓦尔·拉维坎特(Naval Ravikant)说，“但我经历过第一次互联网泡沫，不会轻易相信什么东西，目前，我没有看到那种规模或者程度的泡沫。”AngelList是一个帮助创业公司筹集资金的网站。
Such assurances aside, the numbers are sobering. Eight months ago, Snapchat was valued at $70 million. Today, it is valued at $4 billion, even though it has zero revenue. Six months ago, Pinterest was valued at $2.5 billion. Today, it is valued at $3.8 billion — and no revenue there, either. And last week news broke that Dropbox was said to be seeking a new round of funding that would value the company at $8 billion, up from $4 billion a year ago.
把这样的保证放到一边，看看令人头脑冷静的数字吧。八个月前，Snapchat的估值为7000万美元，如今达到了40亿，尽管它的营收为零。六个月前，Pinterest的估值为25亿美元，如今达38亿美元——它同样没有营收。上周有消息传出，Dropbox正在寻求的新一轮融资对该公司的估值达80亿美元，而一年前为40亿美元。
In Silicon Valley, pointing out this sort of thing is considered a bit impolite.
在硅谷，指出这样的事情会被视为缺乏礼貌。
J. William Gurley, a general partner at Benchmark Capital, a big venture capital firm, has scoffed at people who “write silly articles about the notion of a pre-revenue company having a very high valuation.”
J·威廉·格利(J. William Gurley)是大型风险投资公司基准资本(Benchmark Capital)的一名普通合伙人，曾嘲笑那些“因为尚无营收的公司估值非常高这件事写了一些愚蠢文章”的人。
When the media likened the precipitous decline in the shares of Groupon to the events of the late ’90s, venture capitalists went on the offensive.
当媒体把Groupon的股价急挫和90年代末的泡沫破裂联系起来时，风险资本家们继续进击。
Michael Arrington, a partner at CrunchFund, wrote on Twitter that The Wall Street Journal was waging a vendetta against the company because it wrote a headline that read: “Groupon Investors Give Up.” Chris Dixon, a partner at another venture capital firm, Andreessen Horowitz, joined in on Twitter.
CrunchFund的合伙人迈克尔·阿灵顿(Michael Arrington)在Twitter上写道，《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)正在对他的公司发起仇杀，因为它用了这样一个标题——《Groupon投资者放弃了》。风险投资公司安德森-霍洛维茨(Andreessen Horowitz)的合伙人克里斯·迪克森(Chris Dixon)也在Twitter上加入了战团。
“Everything is spun negatively,” Mr. Dixon wrote. “Comparing current valuations to the dot-com bubble is simply irresponsible.”
“把什么都篡弄成负面的，”迪克森写道。“拿现在的估值和互联网泡沫时期做比较根本就是不负责任的。”
The venture firm Mr. Dixon joined last year was responsible for $40 million of the $950 million that early investors put into Groupon. But public stockholders have not done well. Groupon’s share price has been cut in half in the past two years.
Groupon从早期投资者那里募集了9.5亿美元资金，其中4000万美元来自迪克森去年加入的那家风险投资公司。但公众股东损失惨重，在过去两年里，Groupon股价已经下挫了一半。
Wall Street is starting to question how long this can all last. A recent Bloomberg survey of Wall Street investors, analysts and traders who use the company’s financial data terminals found that the majority thought Internet and social media stocks were at or near unsustainable levels.Roughly half said that the bubble was here or soon would be.
华尔街已经开始质疑，这一切究竟能持续多久。彭博(Bloomberg)最近对使用其金融数据终端的华尔街投资人、分析师和交易员进行了一项调查，调查发现，多数人都认为互联网和社交媒体板块的股价正处于或接近不可持续的水平。几乎一半的人都说，泡沫已经到来或即将到来。
Not that the big investment houses are shouting sell. They rarely do. As of Friday, 12 of the 17 stock analyst recommendations for Twitter available on Bloomberg terminals were buy or hold. Only five were sell. Of the 48 recommendations for Facebook, 40 were buy and eight were hold. Not a sell to be found.
这并不是说这些大型投资机构在抛售这些股票，它们其实很少卖出。周五，彭博终端上针对Twitter的17条股票分析建议中，有12条都是买入或持有。只有5条是卖出。针对Facebook的48条建议中，有40条买入，8条持有。没有一个卖出。
Michael Mandel, an economist at the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington who wrote presciently about the ’90s dot-com era, said that if there was a bubble this time — and there might be — its bursting would not be as bad as the last one. That is because back then, start-ups advertised on other start-ups’ websites and, in many respects, robbed Peter to pay Paul. So when one company collapsed, other dominoes fell, too.
供职于华盛顿进步政策研究所(Progressive Policy Institute)的经济学家迈克尔·曼德尔(Michael Mandel)曾预见了上世纪90年代的网络股热潮。他说，如果这次存在泡沫——可能的确有——它的破裂也不会像上次那么糟糕。这是因为，当时的创业公司都在其他创业公司的网站上打广告，从很多方面来看都像是拆东墙补西墙。所以，一旦一家公司倒闭，其他多米诺骨牌也会倒下。
“Bubbles that are not self-feeding are not a big problem, and I’m not seeing the kind of self-feeding that I saw in the ’90s,” Mr. Mandel said. “So if it turns out that the social media boom is overdone, or that any aspect of the tech economy is overdone, the only thing that will get lost is the money that was invested.”
“不会自行膨胀的泡沫不是大问题，我没有看到90年代那种泡沫自行膨胀的情况，”曼德尔说。“所以，如果事实证明社交媒体过热了，或者科技产业的任何方面出现过热，唯一会损失的只是已经投入的资金。”
Still, now that companies like Facebook and Twitter are traded on the stock market, the investing public at large is exposed. If big investment institutions pull back from the broad stock market or, worse, start dumping technology shares, everyday investors could get caught in the downdraft.
然而，既然像Facebook和Twitter这样的公司目前都已经上市，广大的公众投资者就承担着风险。如果大型投资机构从股市上套现离场，或者做出更糟糕的事，开始抛售科技股，那么散户投资者就会陷入困境。
“What’s likely to happen is that there will be a huge winner-takes-all outcome, where one or two companies and investors will be successful,” said David Santschi, chief executive at TrimTabs Investment Research in Sausalito, Calif. “But as a result, there will be a lot of companies that are just going to go poof.”
“实际上比较有可能出现的是赢家通吃的大结局，成功的只有一两个公司和投资人，”加利福尼亚索萨利托的TrimTabs投资研究公司首席执行官戴维·桑奇(David Santschi)说。“到头来，许多公司都会人间蒸发。”
And a lot of people’s money will go poof with them.
人们的大量资金也会和这些公司一起蒸发。