A surgeon who contracted Ebola while working in Sierra Leone, Dr. Martin Salia, died Monday while being treated in a biocontainment center in Omaha.
周一，感染埃博拉病毒的外科医生马丁·萨利亚(Martin Salia)在奥马哈一所生物控制中心接受治疗期间死亡。萨利亚在塞拉利昂工作期间感染了病毒。
“We used the maximum amount of supportive care and every advanced technique available in an effort to save his life,” said Dr. Jeffrey P. Gold, chancellor of the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
位于奥马哈的内布拉斯加大学医学中心(University of Nebraska Medical Center)主任杰弗里·P·戈尔德(Jeffrey P. Gold)表示，“我们最大程度地进行了支持性护理，并使用了各种可用的先进技术，试图挽救他的生命。”
“We are reminded today that even though this was the best possible place for a patient with this virus to be, that in the very advanced stages, even the most modern techniques that we have at our disposal are not enough to help these patients once they reach the critical threshold,” Dr. Gold said.
戈尔德说，“今天的事情提醒我们，即便这是晚期埃博拉患者的最佳治疗地点，即便我们可以利用最现代的技术，一旦患者达到危重临界点，也都不足以挽救患者。”
Dr. Salia, who is a citizen of Sierra Leone but lives in Maryland, had been working as a general surgeon at Kissy United Methodist Hospital in Sierra Leone’s capital, Freetown. It was not clear where he had come in contact with Ebola patients, though hospital officials said he worked in an area with many Ebola cases. Five other doctors in Sierra Leone have contracted Ebola; all have died.
萨利亚是塞拉利昂公民，但生活在马里兰州。他曾在塞拉利亚首都弗里敦的基西联合卫理公会医院(Kissy United Methodist Hospital)担任普外科医生。目前尚不清楚他在哪里接触到埃博拉患者，但医院官员表示，他的工作地点所在的地区出现了很多埃博拉病例。在塞拉利昂，还有另外五名医生感染病毒，并都已经死亡。
A hospital spokesman, Taylor Wilson, said that Dr. Salia died about 4 a.m. Monday. He came down with symptoms of the virus on Nov. 6 but initially tested negative. It is not uncommon for people tested in the early stages of the disease to get a false negative. His symptoms persisted and he tested positive a week ago.
医院发言人泰勒·威尔逊(Taylor Wilson)表示，萨利亚于周一凌晨4时左右死亡。他在11月6日开始出现埃博拉症状，但最初检测结果呈阴性。埃博拉患者在感染初期检测呈假阴性的现象并不罕见。萨利亚的症状一直持续，一周前检测呈阳性。
Dr. Salia arrived in Omaha on Saturday, 13 days into the course of the disease. His kidneys had already failed and he was breathing with great difficulty, said Dr. Daniel W. Johnson, the director of critical care at the Omaha hospital.
萨利亚于周六，也就是患病第13天到达奥马哈。奥马哈这所医院的重症监护部主任丹尼尔·W·约翰逊(Daniel W. Johnson)表示，当时萨利亚的肾脏已经衰竭，呼吸非常困难。
“Within the first few hours of his arrival we started running continuous dialysis and within the first 12 hours he had progressed to complete respiratory failure, requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation,” Dr. Johnson said. “Shortly after that he developed severely low blood pressure. He progressed to the point of cardiac arrest and we weren’t able to get him through this.”
“在他到达的最初几个小时里，我们开始持续进行透析，在前12个小时里，他渐渐出现呼吸完全衰竭的情况，需要插管和机械通气，”约翰逊说。“之后不久，他的血压开始严重降低。随后，他进入心搏停止状态，我们没能帮他渡过这个难关。”
Dr. Salia also received a blood plasma transfusion from a patient who has recovered from Ebola and an experimental drug, ZMapp, provided by the manufacturer, hospital officials said.
医院管理者称，萨利亚还接受了一个埃博拉康复者的输血，以及制药商提供的试验药物ZMapp的治疗。
“As we have learned, early treatment with these patients is essential,” Dr. Philip Smith, the medical director of the biocontainment unit at the Nebraska Medical Center, said. “In Dr. Salia’s case, his disease was already extremely advanced by the time he came here for treatment.”
“我们知道，对这些患者进行早期治疗十分重要，”该医疗中心生物控制科的医疗负责人菲利普·史密斯(Philip Smith)说。“从萨利亚的情况来看，他来这里接受治疗时，病情就已经极为严重了。”
Dr. Salia’s body will be cremated; an autopsy is considered too dangerous to perform, but tissue samples from the body will be analyzed by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
萨利亚的遗体将接受火化。人们认为，遗体解剖太过危险，不宜进行，但是亚特兰大的联邦疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)将对遗体的组织样本进行分析。
Hospital officials singled out nurses for their work, noting that they had much more contact with the patient. “I want to thank our local heroes who took care of a global hero these past few days,” the chief nursing officer, Rosanna Morris, said.
医院管理者专门对护士的工作进行了表扬，称这些护士与病人的接触要多得多。护士长罗莎娜·莫里斯(Rosanna Morris)说，“我想感谢我们本地的英雄，他们过去几天一直在照顾一位世界英雄。”