As newborns, Teman Evans and his identical twin, Teran, looked so much alike that the doctor who delivered them had to put bracelets on them so their mother could tell them apart. (When they were 10, she confessed that soon after, she had taken the bracelets off to bathe the twins, and wasn’t entirely sure she had put them back on correctly.) At 33, those bracelets are long gone, but the twins remain almost indistinguishable.
刚出生的时候，提曼·埃文斯(Teman Evans)和他的同卵双胞胎兄弟特兰(Teran)看起来是那么相似，以至于为了能让母亲分辨出兄弟俩，负责接生的医生不得不为他们戴上腕带以区分。（母亲后来坦言，在兄弟俩十岁的时候，她在为他们洗澡的时候将腕带取了下来，而她不太确定在这之后她又把它们戴对了）。现在，兄弟俩33岁了，那对腕带早已不见踪影，但他俩看起来仍然让人难以分辨。
“To this day, our parents can’t tell us apart,” Teman said. “They refer to us as ‘Hey, you.’ ”
“直至今日，爸妈还是难以区分我们，”提曼说道，“他们经常指着我们说，‘嘿，你。’”
The differences, they will tell you, are all in the details: At 6 feet 4 inches, Teran is slightly taller than his brother, and not quite as exuberant. And whereas Teman will combine a pink T-shirt with a green jacket and an orange watch (as he says, “I like every color in the crayon box”), Teran prefers a more muted palette. He generally sticks to black, white and gray, although he does go for blue in his more unfettered moments.
兄弟俩会告诉你，他们之间的区别全藏在细节里：特兰身高6英尺4寸（约1米9），比他的兄弟要稍微高出一点，但性格没有那么活跃。提曼会将粉色T恤、绿色外套和橙色手表混搭在一起（就像他说的，“我喜欢蜡笔盒里的每一种颜色”），而特兰则偏爱更素净的颜色搭配。他通常只选择黑色、白色和灰色，虽然在不太拘束的时刻，他确实也会穿穿蓝色。
But they still share the same interests — the two are interior and jewelry designers who studied architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design — and the same home.
但他们还是拥有共同的兴趣爱好（他俩都是室内和珠宝设计师，曾在哈佛设计研究生院[Harvard Graduate School of Design]学习建筑设计），以及共同的住所。
“I cannot imagine living with anyone else but Teran,” Teman said. “There’s an unspoken language. There will never be a shoe in the middle of the hall.”
“我不能想象和特兰以外的其他人一起生活，”提曼说，“我们之间有一种无声的语言。
Since graduate school, they have shared a series of rentals in Brooklyn. Their latest is a 1,400-square-foot duplex in Clinton Hill, which they moved into in July and for which they pay $4,000 a month.
从读研究生到现在，兄弟俩已经在布鲁克林(Brooklyn)合租过好几套房了。他们最近的住所，是一套位于克林顿山(Clinton Hill)的复式公寓。公寓面积有1400平方英尺（约130平方米），兄弟俩在7月份入住，每个月要支付4000美元（约合人民币24497.2元）的房租。
Like the playroom they credit with sparking their interest in design — a 400-square-foot room they constantly redecorated, between the ages of 3 and 9, with Legos and He-Man action figures — nothing here is costly or permanent.
就像那间曾经激发了他们设计爱好的游戏室一样——那是一间400平方英尺（约37平方米）大的房间，在3岁到9岁间，兄弟俩不断用乐高积木和希曼人偶（He-Man，《宇宙的巨人——希曼》是美国FILMATION公司1983年出品的系列动画片——译注）反复装饰它——这间公寓里的一切东西，既不昂贵也不持久。
And almost everything involves compromise.
而且，其中的一切都体现着折中的态度。
In other words, Teman said, describing their design process: “Usually someone proposes a provocative idea, and someone else says, ‘That’s a stupid idea.’ ”
换句话说，就像提曼所形容的装修过程一样：“通常，我们中的一个人会提出一种颇为挑衅的想法，而另一个人则会说，‘这想法蠢透了。’”
In its current incarnation, the apartment looks a lot like their work for “The High Low Project,” an HGTV show for which they have served as D.I.Y. consultants.
就其现在的样子而言，公寓看起来很像兄弟俩为“The High Low Project”（HGTV电台的一档节目，兄弟俩是该节目的D.I.Y顾问）布置的一间房间。
One living room wall is covered in wood flooring from Ikea. Four plywood bookcases dating from their student days have been updated with a checkerboard pattern, using shiny black vinyl adhesive. (The vinyl easily peels off, so the shelving can be redone again in the near future.) And a floor lamp that was once a chandelier has been retrofitted for their new space, which has lower ceilings than the loft they shared in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. (That was Teman’s idea; Teran initially hated it, but he came around.)
在客厅的一面墙上，铺着从宜家买来的木地板。从学生时代保留至今的四只胶合板书柜被贴上了亮闪闪的黑色黑胶粘剂，翻新成了棋盘图案（黑胶很容易剥落，所以不久之后书架又可以被重新装饰了）。与原先布鲁克林格林波因特(Greenpoint)的住处相比，兄弟俩的新家层高更矮。为此，他们还将一盏吊灯改造成了落地灯（那是提曼的主意；特兰一开始讨厌这想法，但后来他开始接受了）。
The bedrooms are the only place where they don’t collaborate.
卧室是唯一一处他们不用齐心协力装饰的地方。
Teman’s is a riot of color and pattern, with a chevron-striped wallpaper (chevrons are an obsession he has passed on to his brother), a bedspread with a bright yellow print and orange shams. Teran’s has white walls, a black bed and an understated arrangement of blue-and-white china.
提曼的卧室充斥着颜色和图形，墙上糊着V型条纹壁纸（他的兄弟也同样迷恋V型），床上铺着一块带有亮黄色印花的床罩，枕套则是橙色的。而特兰的卧室则是四面白墙，一张黑床，以及低调的青花瓷器摆设。
The kitchen has been left virtually untouched. At best, it functions as a kind of gallery, Teran said, pointing to a Michael Graves teapot and a painting by Andrew Pearson.
兄弟俩没有改动厨房。它的功能至多就是用于收藏东西，特兰一边说一边指向一只迈克尔·格雷夫斯（Michael Graves，美国后现代主义建筑师，同时热衷于设计首饰、钟表、餐具。——译注）设计的茶壶，和一幅安德鲁·皮尔森(Andrew Pearson)画的画。
But that wasn’t hard to agree on. “We don’t cook at all,” Teran said. “We make tea. I’ve had to call Teman to ask him how to turn on the stove.” Even the toaster, it turns out, is broken.
对于他们，这并不难达成一致。“我们根本不做饭，”特兰说，“不过我们沏茶。我不得不打电话给提曼，向他询问如何打开煤气灶。”——甚至是烤面包机的用法，结果发现，它是坏的。
They have so much in common, a visitor observes, that it must be difficult to form outside relationships, particularly romantic ones.
据一位访客观察，他们有着太多的共同点，以至于对他们而言，与外人产生关系——尤其是浪漫的关系，一定会很难。
“It takes a long time to let new people in,” Teman said. “My brother’s relationship is going on seven years, and mine is on the fifth year, and it’s taken that long for us to love the other’s partner.”
“让新人进入我们的世界需要花很长时间，”提曼说，“我弟弟的恋情已经有七年之久，我的已经到第五年。我们都是花了很长时间，才喜欢上对方的另一半。”
Asked to envision a time or circumstance in which they might eventually live apart, they are momentarily at a loss.
当被要求想象在某个时刻或某种情况下，他们可能最终会分开住时，兄弟俩一时不知所措。
“Maybe one day, someone will fall in love and move out,” Teman said. “But we say we resolved all our issues in the womb. We really get along.”
“或许有一天，我们中的某个人会坠入爱河，然后搬出去住，”提曼说，“但我们总说，我们俩在子宫里的时候就已经把所有矛盾都解决了。我们真的相处得很好。”