Donald J. Trump’s election victory was powered in part by forceful opposition to what he described as an economic and political system rigged against the American people for the benefit of shadowy forces in the news media, the banks and the government.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)之所以取得大选的胜利，有一部分推动力量来自对他描述的一种经济和政治体制的强烈反对情绪。他称这套制度受到操纵，不利于美国民众，而是服务于新闻媒体、银行和政府中的隐秘势力。
President-elect Trump and his allies often describe that system with one word: globalism.
当选总统特朗普及其盟友常常用一个词汇描述这个系统：全球主义。
It is a word that conjures many images, none of them good: shuttered factories, unchecked immigration and a distant cabal that, believers say, controls the economy and the media.
这个词会引发许多联想，其中没有一个是好的：关闭的工厂、未经核实身份的移民，以及一个被认为控制了经济和媒体的冷漠的政治阴谋小集团。
Analysts who track extremist groups in the United States have expressed alarm at the use of the word by the president-elect. They say it carries multiple meanings — from benign to sinister — and often serves as a “dog whistle” for racist, anti-Semitic and antigovernment conspiracy theorists.
侯任总统对这个词汇的使用，已经引起持续关注美国激进组织的分析人士的警惕。他们表示，它有多种含义——有好的也有不好的——常常被用来作为种族主义者、反犹太主义者和反政府阴谋论者的“狗哨”。
“Globalism is a principle driver for the fears that animate the radical right in the United States,” said Ryan Lenz, the editor of Hatewatch, a blog published by the Southern Poverty Law Center. “It is the enemy, ultimately.”
“全球主义是恐惧的主要驱动力量，这种恐惧情绪给美国的激进右翼注入了生命力，”南方贫困法律中心(Southern Poverty Law Center)运营的博客“仇恨观察”(Hatewatch)的主编瑞安·伦茨(Ryan Lenz)说道。“从根本上讲，它是有害的。”
What Is Globalism?
什么是全球主义？
Globalism is often used as a synonym for globalization, the system of global economic interconnection that has been critiqued for decades by liberal groups like labor unions, environmental organizations and opponents of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. But for the far right, the term encapsulates a conspiratorial worldview based on racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism, according to Mark Pitcavage, a researcher at the Anti-Defamation League.
全球主义往往被当作全球化的同义词，后者是指全球经济互联的体系。在过去的几十年里，这一体系一直遭到自由团体的批评，比如工会、环境组织，以及国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)和世界银行(World Bank)的反对者。但是据反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)的研究员马克·皮特卡瓦奇(Mark Pitcavage)观察，对极右翼而言，这个词包含了一种建立在种族主义、仇外和反犹太主义基础上的阴谋世界观。
Lauren Southern, a host on the right-wing Canadian media site Rebel Media, explicitly rejected its use as a synonym for globalization in a video she posted online in September. She said the word meant rule by autocrats — such as President Obama, former President George W. Bush and the United Nations — who value “the false flag of diversity” and “unchecked immigration from the third world.”
在今年9月发布在网上的一段视频中，加拿大右翼媒体网站Rebel Media的主持人劳伦·萨瑟恩(Lauren Southern)明确反对将它当作全球化的同义词。她表示，这个词的含义是指被奥巴马总统、前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和联合国(United Nations)等独裁者统治，他们看重“多样性这面虚伪的旗帜”，重视“来自第三世界的身份未经核实的移民”。
“Globalists almost always sneer down their nose at tradition, disdain national culture, laugh at religion and generally despise the West while holding a creepy affection for the third world,” she added. “They want open borders, cheap labor and antinationalism to benefit their business and political visions, and are all too willing to shaft the little people to achieve it.”
“全球主义者几乎总是对传统、民族文化和宗教不屑一顾，基本看不起西方世界，同时却对第三世界有一种诡异的热爱，”她接着讲道。“他们想要开放的边界、廉价的劳动力，反对民族主义，这些有利于他们的商业和政治愿景。他们意愿太强，会不惜牺牲小人物的利益去实现它。”
Breitbart News, the hard-right website run by Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s newly appointed chief White House strategist, frequently attacked globalism and so-called “globalist elites” during Mr. Bannon’s tenure there. But no one may have done more to popularize the idea of a globalist conspiracy than Alex Jones, a far-right radio host who commands an online audience of millions through his Infowars media empire.
之前由特朗普新任命的白宫首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)管理的极右派网站莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)，就曾在班农主管期间频繁抨击全球主义和所谓的“全球主义精英”。但在普及全球主义阴谋论这一观念方面，没人能出右翼电台主持人亚历克斯·琼斯(Alex Jones)的左右。他通过自己的Infowars媒体王国，控制着数百万计的线上听众。
He has been called “the most prolific conspiracy theorist in contemporary America” by the Southern Poverty Law Center. Among his claims: the Sandy Hook school massacre in Newtown, Conn., was a hoax and the Sept. 11 terror attacks were an inside job.
他被南方贫困法律中心(Southern Poverty Law Center)称为“美国当代最多产的阴谋论者”，曾宣称位于康涅狄格州纽敦的桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook)发生的屠杀事件是一场骗局，还说9·11恐怖袭击事件是美国人自己干的。
Mr. Jones posted his own definition of globalism to YouTube in 2014. In his trademark shout, he described it as a “global digital panopticon control system” engineered by shadowy corporate and political elites. He called it “the total form of slavery.”
2014年，琼斯在YouTube上发布过他个人对全球主义的定义。在视频中，他以自己标志性的呐喊，将它描述为由遮遮掩掩的企业和政治精英设计的“全球数字环形监狱控制系统”，并称之为“奴隶制的终极形式”。
So what is Mr. Trump talking about when he talks about globalism? His spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, provided a definition in an email before the election last week:
所以，当特朗普谈论全球主义时，他指的什么？他的女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)在上周大选进行之前发来的一封邮件中提供了这样一个定义：
“An economic and political ideology which puts allegiance to international institutions ahead of the nation-state; seeks the unrestricted movement of goods, labor and people across borders; and rejects the principle that the citizens of a country are entitled to preference for jobs and other economic considerations as a virtue of their citizenship.”
“一种对国际机构的忠诚度高于单一民族国家的经济和政治意识形态；试图对商品、劳动力的流动不加限制，允许人们自由越境；反对一个国家的公民有权优先获得工作和其他经济利益的原则，反对将其作为公民身份的一个好处。”
Where Did This Idea Come From?
这种观念从何而来？
Far-right groups in the United States began to refer to globalism at the end of the Cold War, when it replaced communism as an idea that was an ever-present danger to the nation, Mr. Pitcavage said. They have also referred to it as the New World Order, and soon they saw its tentacles everywhere.
皮特卡瓦奇称，冷战结束时，美国国内的极右翼团体开始提及全球主义，作为一种取代共产主义的概念，是美国所面临的挥之不去的危险。他们还将之称作新世界秩序。不久后，他们便发现它的触须无处不在。
The shape of that conspiracy had distinctly anti-Semitic overtones, in part because many of communism’s foes had historically seen communism as inextricably linked to Judaism, Mr. Pitcavage said. Members of the far right became fixated on prominent Jews like the businessman and philanthropist George Soros.
皮特卡瓦奇说，这个阴谋的特征具有明显的反犹暗示，这在一定程度上是因为共产主义的很多敌人在历史上一直认为共产主义和犹太教有着难解难分的联系。极右翼阵营成员变得异常地痴迷于著名的犹太人，如商人兼慈善家乔治·索罗斯(George Soros)。
Those conspiratorial beliefs were bolstered when former President George Bush celebrated the end of the Cold War in a 1991 speech by saying it was the dawn of a “new world order.” His use of the phrase was taken as proof by many that a globalist conspiracy really was afoot.
当前总统乔治·布什(George Bush)在1991年庆祝冷战结束的一次讲话中说当时是“新世界秩序”的黎明时，那些阴谋论观点得到了增强。不少人把布什使用该短语当做一个证据，认为它表明真的存在全球主义阴谋。
“It was very easy for them, especially because he was the one who said it, to take that ball and run with it,” Mr. Pitcavage said. “From that point on, the phrase became the short hand for that kind of globalism conspiracy theory.”
“他们非常容易就此大肆发挥，尤其因为说这话的人是他，”皮特卡瓦奇说。“从那时候开始，这个短语就成了那种全球主义阴谋论的简称。”
How Does It Fit Into American Politics?
它是如何与美国政治结合在一起的？
The term’s multiple meanings have made it a powerful political tool, and Mr. Trump’s and his allies’ frequent references to globalism have drawn in a wide and varied audience.
这个术语的多重含义使它成了一件有力的政治工具。此外，特朗普及其盟友频频提到全球主义，吸引了广泛、多元的受众。
“Anti-globalism is a very efficient net to unite disparate parts of the right” from the mainstream to the extreme, said Brian Levin, the director of the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino.
加利福尼亚州立大学圣贝纳迪诺分校仇恨与极端主义研究中心(Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino)主任布莱恩·莱文(Brian Levin)说，“反全球主义是一张非常高效的网，可将右翼阵营中的不同派别团结在一起”，从主流到极端。
Professor Levin called globalism “the defining folklore and narrative for the racist right” but said it had also “become a convenient boogeyman to explain the various declines that the United States is perceived to be in.”
莱文教授称全球主义是“种族主义右翼的典型传闻和叙事”，但也表示全球主义已经“变成了一个方便用来解释人们眼中美国的各种衰落的妖怪”。
Globalism was an important theme in the final weeks of Mr. Trump’s campaign, for example, when he told a rally in Florida in October that his opponent for the presidency, Hillary Clinton, had sat at the heart of a globe-spanning conspiracy with international bankers “to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty.”
在特朗普竞选的最后几周，全球主义是一个重要的主题。比如，他10月对佛罗里达州一场集会上的人群说，和他争夺总统职位的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)是与国际银行家达成的一项全球性阴谋的核心，该阴谋的内容是“蓄谋破坏美国主权”。
The Anti-Defamation League criticized the speech for “evoking classic anti-Semitic themes.”
反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)指责他的演讲“激起了典型的反犹主题”。
Conspiratorial talk has continued after the election. Mr. Trump referred to a plot against him again last Thursday, when he complained on Twitter that anti-Trump protests were the work of the news media and paid protesters. Lou Dobbs, a Trump ally and host on Fox Business News, later accused Mr. Soros of “inciting riots.”
选举结束后，阴谋论仍在继续。上周四，特朗普再次提到了一个针对他的阴谋。他在Twitter上抱怨称，反特朗普游行是新闻媒体和拿了钱的抗议者的成果。随后，特朗普的盟友、Fox财经新闻(Fox Business News)主持人卢·多布斯(Lou Dobbs)指责索罗斯“煽动骚乱”。
Many on the far right have celebrated Mr. Trump’s election victory as a momentous blow against the globalist conspiracy.
极右翼阵营中的很多人都把特朗普的胜选当作对全球主义阴谋的重创来大加庆祝。