BEIJING — Trying to be helpful, a Chinese father at our sons’ elementary school advised me to slap my child’s face if he was being recalcitrant. He made a slicing hand gesture. “This is what I do,” he said.
北京——我儿子所在小学的一名中国父亲非常热心，建议称如果我的孩子不听话就打他耳光。他做了一个扇耳光的手势。他说，“我就是这么做的。”
“It won’t work,” I said, appalled and hoping an argument based on efficiency rather than morality might persuade a father who clearly believed the Chinese saying that “a dutiful son is made by the rod.”
“这没用的，”我说，我感到很震惊，希望用基于效用而非道德的理由，说服一个明显相信中国俗语“棍棒之下出孝子”的父亲。
“You’re wrong! It will,” he said, breezily, turning his attention to a more agreeable parent at the school meeting, where we were hearing about secondary education options for our children.
“你错了！有用的，”他轻松地说道，然后将注意力转移到学校会议上比较认同这一观点的家长，我们在这个会上了解有关孩子中学教育的就读选项。
Corporal punishment in schools was outlawed in China in 1986, but the harsh disciplining of children remains widespread, reflecting a tradition of “dama jiaoyu,” or hitting-and-cursing education, even if it has become a topic of debate among some parents in recent years. The habit can easily slip into abuse, scholars say.
1986年，中国法律禁止学校体罚学生，但这种严厉管教孩子的方式仍然非常普遍，体现了一种“打骂教育”，即便这在近年来已经成为一些家长的争论话题。学者称，这种习惯很容易演变成虐待。
Figures on child abuse are scarce, reflecting a lack of government and social engagement with the problem, several specialists said.
几名专家表示，几乎没有关于虐待儿童问题的数据，这说明政府及社会没有参与这个问题。
In a 2013 study of child abuse and suicidal thoughts among adolescents in Shanghai, the authors, Sylvia Y. C. L. Kwok and Wenyu Chai of the City University of Hong Kong, and Xuesong He of East China University of Science and Technology, noted that in a national survey by the China Law Society of 3,543 people, about 72 percent said that their parents had beaten them.
2013年，香港城市大学的郭黎玉晶(Sylvia Y. C. L. Kwok)、齐韵宇（Wenyu Chai，音）及华东理工大学的何雪松发表了有关上海青少年中儿童虐待问题及自杀念头的论文，并在文中引用中国法学会在全国对3543人开展的调查，其中大约72%的人表示，父母曾打过他们。
Another survey cited, of elementary pupils in Xi’an, found that 60 percent said that they were hit, deprived of food or verbally abused by their parents. “Chinese parents tend to use physical and emotional punishment to solve parent-child problems and conflicts, which may easily lead to child abuse,” the authors wrote.
论文提到的另一项针对西安小学生的调查发现，60%的学生称他们遭到家长殴打、禁食或辱骂。作者写道，“中国家长往往通过身体及情感上的惩罚解决父母与子女之间的问题和冲突，这可能很容易就会导致虐待儿童的行为。”
“The problem is linked to culture,” Mr. He, a professor of social work and sociology, said in an interview. “Chinese culture is very tolerant of it, so there’s a lot of corporal punishment in families and schools.”
“这个问题与文化有关，”社会工作及社会学教授何雪松接受采访时说。“中国文化对这种做法非常宽容，所以家里和学校存在很多体罚现象。”
That makes the new Chinese law against domestic violence important for children, who are covered by it, as are older and disabled people. “We need to protect our children,” Mr. He said.
这让中国新颁布的《反家庭暴力法》对儿童来说变得非常重要，这部法律将儿童、老年人及残疾人纳入保护范围。何雪松说，“我们需要保护儿童。”
But how?
但如何保护呢？
News reports that women across China are applying for and receiving spousal protection orders from courts since the Anti-Domestic Violence Law took effect on March 1 showed that they were seizing new opportunities to ensure their safety.
有关自《反家庭暴力法》于3月1日生效以来，全国女性申请、获得法庭发布的人身安全保护令的新闻报道说明，她们在抓住这个新的机会，确保自身的安全。
Mr. He has a creative solution: Redeploy the thousands of newly idle family planning workers around the country as a network of child protectors. Their workload has declined, he said, since the government ended the one-child policy.
何雪松提出一个具有创造性的解决方案：将全国各地数以千计最近得以空闲的计划生育工作者进行重新部署，形成保护儿童的网络。他表示，由于政府结束了独生子女政策，相关人员的工作量已经减少。
“They have a giant network around the country. They know where the children are,” he noted. “Each village has a family planning worker. It’s potentially an excellent framework.”
“他们在全国拥有巨大的网络。他们知道孩子们在哪里，”他指出。“每个村庄都有一名计划生育工作者。这是一个潜在的非常棒的体系。”
“It’s especially important to educate parents,” he said, “to tell people that there are other ways to raise children. In the villages, a lot of families just don’t know of any methods except ‘dama.’ ”
“教育父母尤其重要，”他说，“告诉人们还有其他养育孩子的方式。在村里，很多家庭除了‘打骂’，不知道其他方法。”
The Ministry of Civil Affairs, the branch of government with the most responsibility for children’s welfare, he said, was approaching the problem only “slowly.”
他表示，民政部——主要负责儿童福利问题的政府机构——只是在“慢慢”解决这一问题。
Whether spousal or child abuse or other forms of family violence, studies show that they are linked. Abused children are prone to abusing others when they grow up. In a 2011 study of a county in central China by several United Nations agencies, 52 percent of men said that they had used violence against a partner, while 47 percent reported that they had beaten their children.
研究显示，无论是虐待配偶、虐待孩子还是其他形式的家庭暴力，都是有关联的。受到虐待的儿童长大后往往有虐待其他人的倾向。联合国的几家机构于2011年对中国中部的一个县开展调查，52%的男性表示，他们曾暴力对待伴侣，47%的男性称他们打过自己的孩子。
“Men who witnessed their mother being beaten when they were children were nearly three times more likely to beat their own children than men who had not witnessed violence,” the study said.
该调查显示，“小时候看到母亲被打的男性殴打孩子的可能性，是那些没有此类经历的男性的将近三倍。”
Retraining family planning workers to protect children “will be complicated,” Mr. He said, adding that he had not yet proposed the idea to the authorities. “But that’s the ideal.”
何雪松表示，重新培训计划生育工作者，通过他们保护儿童的做法“会非常复杂”，他说，称自己还没有向相关机构提出这个想法。“但这是一个理想办法。”