It is a new frontier of the anti-abortion movement: laws banning abortion at 20 weeks after conception, contending that fetuses can feel pain then.
反堕胎运动有了一条新的前线：立法禁止受孕20周以后堕胎，理由是那时候胎儿会有痛感。
Since 2010, a dozen states have enacted them, most recently Texas. Nationally, a bill passed the Republican-dominated House of Representatives in June.
2010年以来，12个州施行了这样的法律，最新的例子是德克萨斯州。在联邦层面，共和党控制的众议院今年6月通过了一个类似的提案。
The science of fetal pain is highly complex. Most scientists who have expressed views on the issue have said they believe that if fetuses can feel pain, the neurological wiring is not in place until later, after the time when nearly all abortions occur.
胎儿疼痛的科学问题非常复杂。在这个课题上发表过观点的多数科学家认为，即使胎儿有痛感，神经网络也要到后来才形成，晚于近乎所有堕胎手术的实施时间。
Several scientists have done research that anti-abortion advocates say shows that fetuses can feel pain at 20 weeks after conception. One of those scientists said he believed fetuses could likely feel pain then, but he added that he believed the few abortions performed then could be done in ways to avoid pain. He and two other scientists said they did not think their work or current evidence provided scientific support for fetal-pain laws.
有几名科学家进行的研究被反堕胎人士列为显示出受孕20周的胎儿有痛感的证据。其中一名科学家表示，他认为那时胎儿可能有痛感，但他也认为，在那个阶段实施的少数堕胎可以采用无痛的方式。他和另外两名科学家表示，他们认为，无论是他们自己的研究或是目前的证据，都不能为胎儿疼痛法律提供科学支持。
Some scientists’ views have evolved as more research has been done. Dr. Nicholas Fisk, a senior maternal-fetal medicine specialist at Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital in Australia, said he once considered early fetal pain “a major possibility” after finding that fetuses receiving blood transfusions produced increased stress hormones and blood flow to the brain, and that painkillers lowered those levels.
还有些科学家的观点随着更多研究的完成而有所演变。澳大利亚皇家布里斯班女子医院(Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital)的母胎医学高级专家尼古拉斯·菲斯克医生(Nicholas Fisk)称，他曾经认为早期胎儿痛感“很有可能”，因为研究发现，接受输血的胎儿分泌的应激激素及流向大脑的血液均会增加，而止痛药可以降低两者的水平。
Stress hormones do not necessarily indicate pain, and now Dr. Fisk, a former president of the International Fetal Medicine and Surgery Society, said neurological research has convinced him that pain “is not possible at all” before 24 weeks.
不过，应激激素并不一定表明有疼痛。曾任国际胎儿医学与胎儿外科学会(International Fetal Medicine and Surgery Society)会长的菲斯克医生如今表示，神经学研究已使他确信，24周前“完全没可能”有痛感。
Supporters of fetal-pain laws also say that surgeons’ use of anesthesia and painkillers when operating on fetuses in the womb proves fetuses feel pain.
支持胎儿疼痛法律的人士还称，外科医师给子宫里的胎儿做手术的时候会使用麻醉剂和止痛药，这证明了胎儿有痛感。
“If the child who is waiting for surgery can feel pain, the child who is waiting for abortion can also feel pain,” said Mary Spaulding Balch, the National Right to Life Committee’s state policy director, who pioneered fetal-pain laws. She does not advocate performing abortions with anesthesia or painkillers “to have a painless death,” but rather wants those abortions prevented because a “member of the human family has reached a point where they are capable of feeling pain.”
全国生命权利委员会(National Right to Life Committee)的州级政策主管玛丽·斯波尔丁·鲍尔奇(Mary Spaulding Balch)称，“如果等待手术的孩子有痛感，那么等待堕掉的孩子也有痛感。”她是提倡胎儿疼痛法律的先锋，并不提倡在实施堕胎手术时采用麻醉剂或止痛药“来制造无痛死亡”，而是希望阻止这样的堕胎，因为“人类大家庭的一个成员已经发育到了能够感知疼痛的节点”。
But fetal surgeons say that the drugs are given for reasons other than fetal pain. Anesthesia is given to the mother, reaching the fetus, said Dr. Scott Adzick, a leading fetal surgeon at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Fetuses receive muscle relaxants and narcotics. The drugs are given to prevent maternal pain, immobilize the fetus, relax the uterus, and block harmful effects of a fetus’s hormonal stress response, he said. Asked if fetuses would feel pain without these drugs, Dr. Adzick said he did not know.
不过，一些胎儿外科医师表示，使用这些药物并不是出于胎儿疼痛方面的理由。费城儿童医院(Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia)的著名胎儿外科医师斯科特·阿德齐克医生(Scott Adzick)称，麻醉剂是用在母亲身上的，通过母体传递到胎儿，而用于胎儿的是肌肉弛缓药和麻药。他介绍说，用这些药物是为了帮助母亲止痛、使胎儿保持静止、弛缓子宫，并防止胎儿的激素应激反应。当被问到，如果没有这些药物胎儿会不会有痛感的时候，阿德齐克医生说他不知道。
Dr. Mark Rosen, who pioneered anesthesia in fetal surgery, said if fetuses could experience surgery-related pain, it would be postoperatively, because during surgery anesthesia from the mother is so strong. Painkillers given to fetuses would prevent postsurgical pain if it exists, but the known scientific reason for them is “it promotes healing,” he said. “The fetus is going to go on and develop and live.”
马克·罗森医生(Mark Rosen)是在胎儿手术中使用麻醉剂的先驱。他表示，如果胎儿可以感知与手术相关的疼痛，那也是在术后，因为术中来自母亲的麻醉剂药力很强。用于胎儿的止痛药会防止术后镇痛（如果存在的话），但用药的已知科学理由是“促进愈合”，他说。“胎儿会维持下去，发育并存活。”
Fetal-pain laws usually prohibit abortions at 20 weeks after conception, about 22 weeks gestational age as measured by scientists — from the last menstrual period, since conception cannot be pinpointed. The overwhelming majority of abortions occur before 24 weeks, when the Supreme Court has said fetuses might be viable outside the womb.
胎儿疼痛法律通常禁止受孕20周后实施堕胎，按照科学家的算法约为妊娠22周（这种算法以最后一次经期为起点，因为受孕的准确时间不得而知）。美国绝大部分的堕胎是在24周之前实施的。最高法院认为，过了这个时间点的胎儿有可能在子宫外存活。
So the laws banning abortions about two weeks before the 24-week threshold affect very few; 98.5 percent of abortions occur before 21 weeks, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights. Later cases often involve just-discovered birth defects.
因此，胎儿疼痛法律把禁止堕胎的时间提到了24周这个门槛之前大约两周，但能影响的案例非常少。支持堕胎权利的研究组织古特马赫研究所(Guttmacher Institute)提供的数据显示，98.5%的堕胎发生于21周前。更晚的案例往往涉及刚刚发现的先天缺陷。
Still, both sides consider the laws, which have been challenged and blocked in Arizona, Georgia and Idaho, broader efforts to narrow abortion options and build opposition.
然而，正反两方都认为，这些法律是限制堕胎选择、加强反堕胎势力的整体努力的一环。此类法律已在亚利桑那州、乔治亚州和爱达荷州遭到挑战和阻止。
Scientists with varying views of pain development said they did not consider their work applicable to fetal-pain laws or the highly charged abortion debate.
对痛感发展意见不一的科学家表示，他们并不认为自己的研究适用于胎儿疼痛法律或者火药味浓烈的堕胎辩论。
For example, one of the main scientists whose work is cited as support for the laws is Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand, a professor of pediatrics, anesthesiology and neurobiology at the University of Tennessee’s Health Science Center. Dr. Anand said he considered fetal pain likely at between 18 and 24 weeks. But he added that the “issue of fetal pain does not have much relevance for abortion, since most abortions are performed before the fetus is capable of experiencing pain” and that for the “very few” abortions that occur after that time, techniques could be used that he believed would prevent pain.
例如，田纳西大学(University of Tennessee)健康科学中心(Health Science Center)的儿科、麻醉学与神经生物学教授坎瓦尔吉特·阿南德博士(Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand)的研究，和其他一些科学家的研究一起被列为这些法律的依据。阿南德说，他认为18到24周的胎儿很可能有痛感。但他补充说，“胎儿疼痛与堕胎并无太大关系，因为大多数堕胎是在胎儿有痛感之前做的”，而在有痛感之后的“极少数”堕胎手术中，也可以使用他相信能够止痛的方法。
Because so much about pain is undetermined, most scientific discussions eventually run into theoretical territory. Much research involves children or adults, making implications for fetuses unclear. Scientists say characterizing responses as pain is difficult; some fetal reactions are simply reflexes or stress hormones. Some researchers say pain-sensing ability depends on consciousness, which may itself emerge gradually.
鉴于很多关于疼痛的问题都悬而未决，所以大多数科学讨论最后都陷入了理论领域。很多研究都围绕儿童或成人展开，对胎儿痛感并无明确指导意义。科学家称，很难把某种反应定性为疼痛；胎儿的某些反应只是本能的反射或是分泌应激激素。有些研究人员称，感知疼痛的能力有赖于意识，而意识本身可能是逐渐形成的。
“There’s far more we don’t know than we do know,” said Dr. Rosen, who in 2005 co-authored an influential analysis of many studies, which appeared in the Journal of the American Medical Association. It concluded that fetal pain was unlikely before the third trimester, which begins at about 27 weeks. The report said pain sensation required neural connections into the cortex. The cortex begins emerging around the 23rd week, is not functionally developed until the 26th or later, and continues developing after birth, Dr. Rosen said.
“我们不知道的远比我们知道的要多，”罗森医生说。他2005年与同事合作，对多项研究进行分析，最终合写了一篇有影响力的论文，发表在《美国医学会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)上。文章得出结论，胎儿不太可能在大约27周开始的第三孕期之前就有感知疼痛的能力。文章称，痛感需要神经连接延伸至大脑皮层内部。而罗森说，大脑皮层在23周左右才开始出现，到第26周或稍后才会具备相应功能，并在胎儿出生后继续发育。
In 2010, another large review, by a diverse panel appointed by Britain’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, said “most neuroscientists believe that the cortex is necessary for pain perception” so “the fetus cannot experience pain in any sense prior” to 24 weeks.
2010年，英国皇家妇产科学院(Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists)组建了一个跨学科工作组，由其进行另一场大规模评审。工作组称，“多数神经系统科学家认为，大脑皮层对于感知疼痛来说是必要的”，所以“胎儿不可能在（24周）之前产生任何意义上的痛感”。
In 2012, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists endorsed this reasoning, saying studies cited by fetal-pain law supporters were not persuasive “when weighed together with other available information.”
2012年，美国妇产科学院(American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)对这一推论表示赞同，并称，胎儿疼痛法律的支持者所援引的研究“在与其他可以获得的信息进行综合考虑后”，并不具有说服力。
Fetal-pain law advocates argue the cortex is unnecessary to feel pain, and the thalamus, developed around 20 weeks, is sufficient. Ms. Balch, of the National Right to Life Committee, cites as a strong impetus for the laws a 2007 article in the journal Behavioral and Brain Sciences by Dr. Bjorn Merker, a Swedish neuroscientist. It included observations of five children with hydranencephaly, in which most or all of the cortex is missing, replaced with fluid. Dr. Merker, who accompanied the children to Disney World, wrote that they appeared to smile and cry, and theorized that “the tacit consensus concerning the cerebral cortex as the ‘organ of consciousness’ may “be seriously in error.”
胎儿疼痛法律的支持者辩称，大脑皮层对于感知疼痛来说并不是必要的，在20周左右发育成形的丘脑就足以感知疼痛。全国生命权利委员会的鲍尔奇认为，2007年发表在《行为与脑科学》期刊(Behavioral and Brain Sciences)上的一篇由瑞典神经系统科学家比约恩·默克博士(Dr. Bjorn Merker)撰写的论文为此类法律提供了有力支持。默克对五名患有水脑症的儿童进行了观察。水脑症患者完全没有或丧失了大部分大脑皮层，取而代之的是液体。默克陪同这些孩子去了迪士尼乐园(Disney World)。他写道，这些孩子似乎会微笑和哭泣，并由此推理称，“认为大脑皮层是‘意识器官’的默认共识可能是严重错误的。”
Ms. Balch said this research, involving children ages 1 to 5, “is persuasive evidence that the unborn child feels pain at 20 weeks.”
该项研究涉及1到5岁的儿童。鲍尔奇表示，它“是有说服力的证据，证明尚未出生的孩子能在20周的时候感知疼痛”。
Dr. Merker, however, said by e-mail that his research had only “marginal bearing” on fetal pain and “did not deal with pain specifically.” He added, “I was not aware that I had been cited in connection with the abortion issue,” and would say nothing further about it “because of the way that issue has been infected by politics.”
然而，默克博士在电子邮件中表示，他的研究与胎儿痛感“关系不大”，而且“并非是针对痛感的”。他还说，“我并不知道有人在堕胎问题上引用了我的论文”，他不愿意在这个问题上进一步表态，“因为这个问题已沾染了政治因素。”
Dr. Anand believes the cortex is not necessary for fetal pain, saying some adults have continued feeling pain after cortex tissue removal, and others have had pain eliminated when just thalamus nerves were removed. “It seems that the cortex is not that important even in the adult,” he said. “Why do you think it is so important in the fetus?”
阿南德博士认为，大脑皮层并不是胎儿痛感的必要条件。他表示，一些成人在切除大脑皮层组织后仍能感觉到疼痛，而还有些人在切除丘脑神经之后就感觉不到疼痛。“大脑皮层似乎就连对成人也没有那么重要，”他说。“为什么你会觉得它对胎儿如此重要呢？”
But Dr. Rosen, a professor emeritus of anesthesiology, obstetrics and gynecology at the University of California, San Francisco, said pain involves “complex feedback loops between different structures,” so pain receptors must extend through the spinal cord and thalamus into the cortex. “You can make a telephone call, but not till wires that connect our phones exist,” he said. “You can say the wire now exists, but nobody’s turned the service on.”
但是，作为加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)的麻醉学、产科学及妇科学荣休教授，罗森医生表示，痛感涉及“不同结构间复杂的反馈回路”，因此痛觉受体必须通过脊髓及丘脑，延伸至大脑皮层。“你可以打电话，但前提是要有连接电话的电话线，”他说。“你可以说现在有了电话线，但服务尚未开通。”
Dr. Anand’s fetal-pain theories grew from important research he did with premature infants showing that the then-common practice of not anesthetizing infants undergoing surgery caused hormonal stress responses and impeded recoveries. This did not prove the infants felt pain, but it largely contributed to making anesthesia standard because lowering stress responses helped babies survive.
阿南德的胎儿痛感理论，源自他对早产儿所做的一项重要研究。这项研究显示，当时普遍的不给接受手术的婴儿麻醉的做法，会导致激素应激反应，并妨碍康复。这不能证明婴儿有痛感，但它在很大程度上使麻醉成为标准做法，因为降低应激反应有利于婴儿存活。
Most premature infants are older than fetuses the laws refer to, with more-developed brains. But Dr. Anand said he believes fetuses may feel pain through different pathways, possibly the subplate, a way station for budding neurons, which later folds into the cortex. Dr. Rosen said the subplate theory was “unsubstantiated conjecture,” likely too simplistic for pain sensation.
大多数早产儿的年龄都比胎儿疼痛法律定义的胎儿大，拥有更为发达的大脑。但阿南德表示，他认为胎儿可能会通过不同的路径感知疼痛，可能是基底核——正在形成的神经元的停留地，之后会融入大脑皮层。罗森医生表示，基底核理论是“无事实依据的推测”，对于痛感来说，很可能过于简单化了。
In 2004, Dr. Anand testified about fetal pain in trials on laws banning late-term procedures, which opponents call partial-birth abortions. In 2005, he testified before a Congressional committee considering fetal-pain legislation.
2004年，阿南德在涉及禁止晚期手术的案件审判中作证，提供有关胎儿痛感的科学见解。反对晚期手术的人士称，这种手术是“部分分娩流产”。2005年，他出席了考虑就胎儿疼痛出台立法的国会委员会的听证会。
Recently, he said he had intended to highlight science, not support anti-abortion views. Since 2005, “I’ve been asked to testify many, many times, and I’ve turned it down,” he said. “I feel it’s just gotten completely out of hand.”
阿南德最近表示，他的本意是介绍科学事实，而不是支持反堕胎的观点。自2005年以来，“我有很多次被要求为此作证，但我都拒绝了，”他说。“我觉得这件事被搞得完全失控了。”
He said women and their doctors should make abortion decisions case by case. “In the very few abortions where fetal pain could possibly occur,” he said, “consider what can be done to avoid inflicting a lot of pain on the fetus.” He said a common method used after 20 weeks — injecting amniotic fluid or fetuses with heart-stopping medication before removing the fetus — “would be fine, really, from a point of view of fetal pain,” a “compassionate way to do it.” Anti-abortion advocates disagree, equating the injections with heart attacks.
他表示，女性和她们的医生应该根据具体情况做出堕胎决定。“在极少数胎儿可能有痛感的堕胎案例中，”他说，“不妨考虑一些可以做些什么来避免胎儿遭受很多痛苦。”他表示，怀孕20周后，常用方法之一是，在打掉胎儿前注入羊水，或给胎儿注射心脏衰竭药物，“从胎儿痛感的视角看，这种方法真的没什么问题”，“这是一种富有同情心的方法”。反堕胎人士并不同意上述观点，认为注射等同于引发心脏梗死。
Some scientists say if fetuses feel pain, childbirth would seem to be particularly painful. Yet fetal-pain law supporters do not advocate fetal anesthesia or painkillers then. Ms. Balch said she believes “there is something that is produced that prevents pain” for babies being born.
一些科学家表示，如果胎儿有痛感，那么分娩的时候，胎儿似乎会特别疼。可胎儿疼痛法律的支持者并不提倡分娩时对胎儿进行麻醉或使用止痛药。鲍尔奇表示，她认为婴儿出生时“会产生某种东西来止痛”。
Scientists say that’s not so. “There are ways in which the pain of being born may help the fetus by producing activation in the pathways of the brain,” Dr. Anand said.
科学家们表示，事实并非如此。阿南德说，“出生时的痛感会对大脑路径产生活化作用，这或许对胎儿有益。”