LONDON — In a famous passage from “Survival in Auschwitz,” Primo Levi relates an incident upon arrival in the Nazi death camp that captures the intersection of the human with the inhuman. He and other Italian prisoners have been held in a shed as they await their fate. Levi looks around in search of some means to quench his thirst:
伦敦——在普里莫·莱维(Primo Levi)的《活在奥斯维辛》(Survival in Auschwitz)中，有一个很著名的情节，叙述了刚刚抵达纳粹死亡集中营时发生的一件事，这件事捕捉了人性与非人性的交叉点。莱维和其他意大利战俘被关在一个棚子里，等待着自己的命运。他四下张望，希望能找点东西来解渴：
“I eyed a fine icicle outside the window, within hand’s reach. I opened the window and broke off the icicle but at once a large, heavy guard prowling outside brutally snatched it away from me. ‘Warum?’ I asked him in my poor German. ‘Hier ist kein warum,’ (there is no why here), he replied, pushing me inside with a shove.”
“我看到窗外有一根细细的冰柱，在手够不到的地方。我打开窗户，掰断冰柱，立刻就有个五大三粗的警卫窜出来，狠狠地把它从我手里夺走。‘为什么？’我用所知有限的德语问他。‘在这里没有为什么，’他一边回答，一边把我推进去。”
There is no why here. The phrase has been reverberating in me since I watched a henchman of the organization that calls itself Islamic State behead two American journalists, James Foley and Steven Sotloff, and a British aid worker, David Haines. The men had been broken by their imprisonment. They had been hollowed out, a terrible thing to behold. How many times they must have asked themselves the why of their captivity, humiliation and torture right up to the moment when a small knife was applied, with a sawing motion, to their throats. Each of the three men died alone, unlike the Yazidis murdered in droves, the Shiite soldiers massacred, the women and children slaughtered during the advance of black-clad ISIS forces across northern Iraq. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS, has created a cult of violence that makes the elimination of all nonbelievers the cornerstone of a movement whose avowed objective is a restored Islamic caliphate but whose raison d’être is the slaughter itself.
在这里没有为什么。我看到了那个自称伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的组织斩首了两名美国记者詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)和史蒂文·索特洛夫(Steven Sotloff)，以及一名英国援助工作者戴维·海恩斯(David Haines)，之后这句话就在我脑海中回荡。监禁生活摧垮了受害者，他们变成了空空的躯壳，看上去令人心碎。这样的问题，他们想必问了自己很多次：为什么他们遭到囚禁、屈辱和折磨，直到有人挥舞一把小刀，砍向他们的喉咙。这三名男子都是孤独死去的，与身裹黑衣的ISIS武装分子在伊拉克北部推进的过程中遭到大批杀害的雅兹迪人，受到屠杀的什叶派士兵，被杀戮的妇女和儿童情况不同。ISIS领袖阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)缔造了一个崇尚暴力的邪教，其行动的根基就是消灭持不同信仰的人。这个组织公开宣称，其目标是恢复伊斯兰哈里发国，但其存在的理由就是屠杀本身。
It is human to seek for reasons. Perhaps the rise of ISIS may be seen as the culmination of decades of Arab resentment at perceived Western domination, drawing support from the same anger as the Muslim Brotherhood and Al Qaeda before it; or as an expression of the abject failure of Arab societies; or as an armed Sunni response to the Shia-bolstering American invasion of Iraq; or as brutal payback for Abu Ghraib and Guantánamo (where, it must be said, there was scant “why” for prisoners detained for years and guilty of no crime); or as a well-funded offshoot of Saudi Wahhabism interpreted in its most literal form; or as a heady alternative for disaffected young Muslims to the moral void of Western civilization; or as evidence of the crisis of Islam and the inevitable Thirty Years War of its Sunni and Shia branches; or simply as a call to arms to drive out the United States the way the infidel Crusaders were ousted from the Levant.
探究原因是人的天性。ISIS的崛起，也许可以用不同方式来解读：因为阿拉伯世界认为西方占据了主导地位，于是对西方积怨数十年，才酿成了当今的局面，支持ISIS的那种愤怒，此前也支持过穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)和基地组织(Al Qaeda)；它展示了阿拉伯社会悲惨的失败；它是逊尼派武装组织作出的一种回应，起因是美国出兵伊拉克，使什叶派壮大了起来；它是对阿布格莱布和关塔那摩的残忍报复（必须说，在那两座监狱里，对于没有犯罪却被关押多年的囚犯来说，也没有什么“为什么”）；它是沙特瓦哈比派(Wahhabism)旗下的一个资金雄厚，而且是最原教旨的分支；它是不满的穆斯林青年，面对西方文明的道德空洞之时，找到的一种狂热替代品；它表明伊斯兰教陷入了危机，表明逊尼派和什叶派之间爆发一场“三十年战争”在所难免；它其实只是在呼吁大家用武力赶走美国人，就像把十字军的异教徒赶出黎凡特(Levant)一样。
Yet, in the end, there is no why to the barbarism of ISIS. There is no why in Raqqa. Evil may adduce reasons; they fall short. The Nazi death machine was unique. Facile invocation of it is too frequent, belittling the phenomenon and its victims. But I was given pause by Martin Amis’ afterword to his powerful new novel, “The Zone of Interest,” where he probes the “why” of Hitler and quotes both the icicle passage and another from Levi:
但说到底，ISIS的野蛮行径没有为什么。在拉卡没有为什么。邪恶之徒可能会举出一些理由；但这些理由统统讲不通。纳粹的死亡机器是独一无二的。人们轻率地谈论纳粹的次数过于频繁，贬低了这种现象及其受害者，但是马丁·艾米斯(Martin Amis)震撼人心的新小说《重点区域》(The Zone of Interest)里的后记，却让我陷入了思索。他在后记里探讨了希特勒的“为什么”，还讲述了莱维的冰柱事件，以及莱维的另一段话：
“Perhaps one cannot, what is more one must not, understand what happened, because to understand is almost to justify. Let me explain: ‘understanding’ a proposal or human behavior means to ‘contain’ it, contain its author, put oneself in his place, identify with him.” Levi, referring to Hitler, Himmler and the rest, goes on: “Perhaps it is desirable that their words (and also, unfortunately, their deeds) cannot be comprehensible to us. They are non-human words and deeds, really counter-human.”
“也许一个人不能理解发生的事情，甚至说，一个人必然不会理解它，因为理解几乎就是在给它找出合理性。让我解释一下：‘理解’一个提议或人类行为，就意味着‘包容’它，包容肇事者，把自己摆在他的位置上，认同他。”莱维在谈到希特勒和希姆莱(Himmler)这些人时说：“对我们而言，他们的话（不幸的是，还有他们的作为）是不可理解的，这样也许比较可取。那些话和那些行径，都是没有人性的，是反人性的。”
Presented with the counter-human, the human must fight back. In the joint “Statement on Atrocities” of October 1943, issued by Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin, there was no mention of the Jews, although millions had been gassed or shot by then. A defense mechanism to the incomprehensible is to pretend it does not exist. “Leave it to the Arabs, it’s their mess, they can clean it up,” is an inadequate (if understandable) response to ISIS. It would have been the wrong one. President Obama’s coalition in the war to eradicate ISIS may be flimsy but passivity was not an option.
看到反人性的言行，人们必须做出反击。1943年10月，在丘吉尔、罗斯福和斯大林联合发表的《反暴行声明》(Statement on Atrocities)中没有提到犹太人，尽管到那时，已经有数百万犹太人被送进毒气室或遭枪杀。对于难以理解的事情，一种防御机制就是假装它不存在。对于ISIS，做出“让阿拉伯人来处理这个问题，这是他们的烂摊子，他们可以清理干净”的反应，或许可以理解，但并不妥当。那将是个错误的反应。奥巴马组建的反ISIS联盟可能很脆弱，但无论怎样都比消极被动要好。