A seat in a subway car in Mexico City’s metro system caused a stir earlier this year. There were awkward glances. Visible discomfort. Baffled looks. Some laughs. And of course, the inevitable pictures from passenger’s camera phones.
今年早些时候，墨西哥城地铁上的一个座位引起热议。尴尬的瞥视。明显的窘迫。困惑的观望。也有人在发笑。当然，乘客不可避免地用具备拍照功能的手机拍下了照片。
It was meant to be provocative, and it was. A seat was changed to look like the lower half of a male’s body, including the penis, part of a campaign by UN Women and the Mexico City government to raise awareness about sexual harassment on subways.
这件事的目的就是为了引起关注，它的确做到了。有人对那个座位进行了改造，让它看上去像男性身体的下半部分，包括生殖器。这是联合国妇女权能署(U.N. Women)与墨西哥城政府联合开展的一场活动的一部分，旨在增强对地铁性骚扰的意识。
On the floor beneath the seat, there was a sign reading, “It is annoying to travel this way, but not compared to the sexual violence women suffer in their daily commutes.”
在座位下面的地上放着一块标语，上面写着，“这样出行令人讨厌，但和女性在日常通勤中遭受的性暴力相比却不算什么。”
The campaign has now released a video titled "Experimento Asiento" — “an experiment with a seat” — that has had more than 800,000 views on YouTube since March 20. It shows people reacting with a mixture of discomfort and shock throughout. One man even tried to cover the seat with a coat to sit on it. It didn’t work. He abandoned the seat, as did others who tried to sit in it during the experiment in January.
现在，该活动发布了一段名为《座位实验》(Experimento Asiento)的视频。自3月20日以来，该视频在YouTube上已被观看超过80万次。视频显示，在整个过程中，人们的反应既不安，又震惊。一名男子甚至试图用外套把座位盖上，然后坐上去，但这一招不起作用。于是，和实验期间其他试图坐在这个座位上的人一样，他放弃了。该实验是在1月进行的。
UN Women and the Mexican government collaborated on a second video as well, which has also begun picking up traffic. It is called “Experimento Pantallas” — or “experiment screens.”
联合国妇女署和墨西哥政府还合作拍摄了另一段视频《屏幕实验》(Experimento Pantallas)，也正在引起注意。
That experiment involved installing cameras that would take tight shots of male buttocks and display them on screens for all to see. In the video, a number of men are shown expressing disgust and embarrassment.
该实验涉及安装摄像头近距离拍摄男性的臀部，并把它们显示在屏幕上给所有人看。在视频中，很多男性表现出了厌恶和尴尬的神情。
“We wanted to do something different,” said a Yeliz Osman, a program coordinator with the Mexican UN Women office. “We wanted to target men because on a global level, the majority of programs talking about sexual violence or sexual harassment always target women and girls. We wanted to change that because we don’t think that women are the problem.”
“我们想做些不一样的事情，”联合国妇女署墨西哥办公室的项目协调员叶利兹·奥斯曼(Yeliz Osman)说。“我们想把男性作为对象是因为在全球范围内，有关性暴力或性骚扰的项目中多数是针对妇女和女童的。我们想改变这个局面，因为我们认为问题不在女性。”
The campaign is called #NoEsDeHombres (a rough translation would be “this isn’t manly”), and it is aimed at men, both with the video ads and with newly unveiled print ones that show guys giving lascivious looks with slogans like “this is how your mother gets looked at every day.”
这项活动名为#NoEsDeHombres（大致可译为“这不男人”），针对的人群是男性。除上述宣传视频外，该活动还在最近推出了印刷宣传材料，上面是一些表情饥渴的男子和诸如“这就是每天落在你母亲身上的目光”这样的口号。
These particular ads came about after UN Women and the Mexican government took open submissions for ideas on a campaign to target a male audience. Around 40 agencies submitted pitches and J. Walter Thompson won.
在这些别具一格的广告出现之前，联合国妇女署和墨西哥政府就一场针对男性的宣传活动公开向外界征集创意。大约40个机构提交了宣传创意，J·沃尔特·汤普森(J. Walter Thompson)最终胜出。
“We need to make clear that this is violent, not flattering, and incentivize men to intervene if they witness it”, said Ana Güemez, director of the Mexican UN Women office, during the presentation of the campaign this Thursday.
“我们需要表明，这是暴力的，不光荣，并激励男性在看到这种情况时出面干预，”联合国妇女署墨西哥办公室主任安娜·圭美茲(Ana Güemez)在本周四介绍这场活动时说。
According to a national survey done in 2016 by the Mexican Institute of Women, Inmujeres, nine out of 10 women or girls who use public transportation feel unsafe while doing it. A wide-ranging Reuters survey done in 2014 also showed that the Mexico City transport system is the second-most dangerous for women overall out of 15 world capitals. However, Mexico City was squarely in first place for specific questions like “have your been verbally harassed?” or “have you been groped?”
据墨西哥妇女协会(Inmujeres)在2016年进行的一项调查显示，九成的妇女或女童在使用公共交通工具时感到不安全。路透社(Reuters)在2014年进行的一项广泛调查也显示，在全球15个首都城市中，墨西哥城交通系统的危险程度排名第二。然而，对于像“你是否受到过言语骚扰”或“你是否被猥亵过”这样的具体问题，墨西哥城稳坐第一名。
“In order to generate change, you need to create empathy,” Ms. Osman said. “The idea is that men can get a sense of what it is all like. By creating empathy, we hope that this might change their behavior.”
“为了带来改变，必须激起同理心，”奥斯曼说。“我们的想法是，男性能够理解到那种感受。通过激起同理心，我们希望这也许能改变他们的行为。”