Whenever we go into political drift as a country, optimists often quote Winston Churchill’s line that Americans will always do the right thing, after they’ve “exhausted all other possibilities.” I don’t think that’s true anymore. Churchill never met the Tea Party, and he certainly never met today’s House Republicans, a group so narrow-minded and disinterested in governing — and the necessary compromises that go with it — that they’re ready to kill an immigration bill that is manifestly in the country’s economic, social and strategic interests.
每当美国政治转向时，乐观主义者通常就会引用温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的话，认为美国人在“耗尽其他所有选择”后总是会做正确的事情。我认为情况已经发生了变化。丘吉尔从未见识过茶党(Tea Party)，他绝对没有碰到过如今的众议院共和党人，这群人思想狭隘，对治理国家及与之相应的必要妥协并不感兴趣，他们准备否决一项显然符合美国的经济、社会及战略利益的移民法案。
Proving Churchill at least half-right, we have foolishly ignored immigration reform for years. But today, finally, we’ve found a coalition of Senate Democrats and 14 Senate Republicans who have courageously compromised on a bill that, though not perfect — it still spends too much on border defense — opens more opportunity for the high- and low-skilled immigrants we need to thrive and gives those already here illegally a legitimate pathway to citizenship. Yet it appears that brain-dead House Republicans and their pusillanimous leadership are not inclined to do the right thing and pass a similar bill. We’ve exhausted all other possibilities, and we’re still stuck. That is how a great country becomes un-great.
多年来，我们愚蠢地忽略了移民改革，这证明丘吉尔的观点至少有一半是正确的。但如今，我们最终发现参议院民主党人及14名共和党人组成联盟，为我们所需的高技能及低技能移民提供更多发展机会，并为那些非法移民提供获得公民身份的合法途径。这14名共和党人勇于就一项不够完善的法案做出让步，当然该法案在边防方面的投入仍然太多。但愚蠢的众议院共和党人和他们怯懦的领导层似乎无意做正确的事情，来通过一项类似的法案。我们已经耗尽了其他所有选择，但我们仍然停滞不前。一个伟大的国家就这样变得不再伟大。
Many House Republicans are resistant to a bill because they come from gerrymandered districts dominated by older white people who have a knee-jerk resistance to immigration reform — borne of fears of job-loss to illegal immigrants and a broader anxiety about the changing color and demographics in America. And rather than trying to defuse those fears by putting the immigration bill into the larger context in which it belongs, a critical mass of House Republicans seems committed to fanning them. 
很多众议院共和党人反对一项法案，是因为他们来自一些划分不公的选区，年长白人在这些地区占据主导地位，而他们下意识地反对移民改革，因为他们担心非法移民会抢占他们的工作，对美国肤色及人口结构的变化普遍感到不安。关键性多数的众议院共和党人没有设法通过将移民法案放到它所属的大环境中进行考虑，来平息这些担忧情绪，反而是似乎是在努力煽动这些担忧情绪。
What world are we living in today? Countries that don’t start every day by asking that question do not thrive in the long run. We are living in a world with at least five competing market platforms: North America, the European Union, South America, Greater China and East Asia. We have already derived great economic benefit through the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta. And, if we were thinking strategically, one of our top foreign policy priorities would be to further integrate North America.
我们如今生活的世界是怎样的？那些不以上述问题开启每一天的国家不能长期繁荣发展。在我们生活的世界中，至少有五个相互竞争的市场平台：北美、欧盟、南美、大中华区及东亚。我们已经通过北美自由贸易协定（North American Free Trade Agreement，简称NAFTA）获得了巨大的经济利益。如果我们能从战略高度思考，我们外交政策的重中之重将会是进一步融合北美地区。
I wonder how many Americans know that we sell twice as many exports to Mexico as to China, and we export more than twice as much to Mexico and Canada as to the European Union and three times as much as we do to East Asia. I wonder how many Americans know that out of every $1 of Mexican exports to the U.S., 40 cents comes from materials and parts made in the U.S. By comparison, out of every $1 of Chinese exports to the world, just 4 cents comes from products made in the U.S., according the National Bureau of Economic Research. And, with the discovery of natural gas in America leading to more manufacturing returning to this country, and the prospect of pending energy reform in Mexico, there is an opportunity to create the lowest-cost, clean-energy manufacturing platform in the world, with mutually beneficial supply chains crisscrossing the continent. 
我很好奇，有多少美国人知道，我们向墨西哥销售的出口商品是对中国出口的两倍，我们向墨西哥及加拿大出口的商品是对欧盟出口量的两倍多，是对东亚出口的三倍。我好奇，又有多少美国人知道，墨西哥每出口1美元的东西到美国，就有40美分来自美国生产的材料和零件。而美国国家经济研究局(National Bureau of Economic Research)的资料显示，相较之下，中国每出口1美元的东西到国外，只有4美分来自美国制造的产品。而且，美国境内发现了天然气，这正在让更多的生产返回美国，墨西哥也将进行能源改革，这些情况意味着，如果北美大陆拥有纵横交错、互惠互利的供应链，它就可能打造出世界上成本最低、采用清洁能源的制造平台。
To enhance such a win-win growth strategy that would incentivize more Mexicans to stay home, we should be investing in a major expansion of transportation corridors to facilitate truck, intermodal (including shipping and high-speed rail) and human traffic in a much more efficient and legal fashion. In short, we’d start with where we want and need North America to go, so we can thrive even more, and then forge a border and immigration policy with both Mexico and Canada to achieve that. We’re doing just the opposite — starting with a fear-fence and not thinking strategically at all.
为了强化这种双赢的、可能会促使更多墨西哥人留在国内的发展战略，我们应该大力投资在扩充运输通道上，以一种更加高效、合法的方式帮助卡车、综合运输（包括航运和高速铁路）和人流的移动。总之，我们应该从我们希望并且需要北美发展的方向出发，这样我们就可以更加蓬勃地发展，然后再来与墨西哥和加拿大制定边境和移民政策，来实现我们的目标。而我们现在的做法却正好相反——以防御栏为出发点，而且完全没有在战略高度上进行思考。
“Instead of lowering the barriers to create a modern border and a more competitive and secure continent, the Republicans propose to deal with illegal migration by doubling our border patrol to over 40,000, which is 10 times more than it was before Nafta, at an additional cost of more than $40 billion,” notes Robert Pastor, founder of the Center for North American Studies at American University, and author of “The North American Idea: A Vision of a Continental Future.”
“共和党提出的应对非法移民的方法，不是降低门槛来促进边境的现代化，提高北美大陆的竞争力和安全性，而是把边境巡逻人数增加一倍，达到4万多名，是NAFTA生效之前的10倍，需要增加400多亿美元的成本。”罗伯特·帕斯特(Robert Pastor)说。他是美国大学(American University)北美研究中心(Center for North American Studies)的创办人，著有《北美理念：一个大陆的未来愿景》(The North American Idea: A Vision of a Continental Future)一书。
“The Republicans claim they are interested in free markets, but instead of trying to flatten the continent, they are fracturing it,” added Pastor. “Instead of eliminating the huge rules of origin tax and creating a common external tariff and a seamless continental market, they want to wall off our neighbors.”
“共和党人声称他们对自由市场感兴趣，但他们却没有努力让北美大陆变得扁平化，反而把它割裂开来。”帕斯特补充说：“他们的愿望不是取消各种原产地税的巨大影响，制定统一关税，让北美大陆变成一个处处畅通的市场，而是把我们的邻居挡在墙外。”
By focusing exclusively on fences, we will not stop undocumented immigration — because 40 percent of illegal residents are people who overstayed their visas — but we will fail to invest in the infrastructure that represents a critical foundation for our future. More important, says Pastor, we will also be telling “the Mexicans and the Canadians that we view them as threats, not as partners.” 
全神贯注在围栏上，我们不会阻挡无证移民的继续出现——因为40％的非法居民都是逾期居留者——但我们却会错过对某些基础设施的投资，而这些基础设施本可以为我们的未来奠定重要的基础。更重要的是，帕斯特说，这样做相当于告诉“墨西哥人和加拿大人，我们把他们视为威胁，而不是合作伙伴”。
The whole approach is shortsighted, does not play to our strengths, increases the deficit and ignores where the world is going and how America can best compete and lead within it. Churchill would be aghast.
这个做法非常短视，不仅不会发挥我们的优势，还会增加赤字，无视世界的发展趋势以及美国在这种趋势下该如何开展竞争、引领竞争。丘吉尔也会被它惊呆。