THE United States has once again twisted itself into a rhetorical pretzel. As when it threatened military action against Syria if a “red line” was crossed, the Obama administration’s rhetoric about Russia and Ukraine goes far beyond what it will be willing and able to enforce.
美国又一次给自己挖了一个“言大于行”的坑。就像之前它威胁说如果叙利亚越过了一条“红线”就会对它采取军事行动一样，在俄罗斯和乌克兰问题上，奥巴马政府的说辞也远远超出了它愿意并能够践行的程度。
Earlier this month, President Obama warned that America would “isolate Russia” if it grabbed more land, and yesterday, he suggested that more sanctions were possible. Likewise, Secretary of State John Kerry said the Group of 7 nations were “prepared to go to the hilt” in order to isolate Russia.
本月早些时候，美国总统奥巴马警告说，如果俄罗斯占领乌克兰更多的领土，美国就会“孤立俄罗斯”，而昨天，他表示可能会对俄罗斯进一步施加制裁。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)同样也说，七国集团“准备全力以赴地”孤立俄罗斯。
But Washington’s rhetoric is dangerously excessive, for three main reasons: Ukraine is far more important to Vladimir V. Putin than it is to America; it will be hard for the United States and Europe to make good on their threats of crippling sanctions; and other countries could ultimately defang them.
但是华盛顿的说辞过头到了危险的程度，主要原因有三个：首先，乌克兰对普京的重要程度远甚于对美国；其次，美国和欧洲要兑现他们严厉制裁的威胁会很困难；第三，其他国家可能会让这些制裁失效。
First, the United States needs to see the Ukraine crisis from Russia’s viewpoint. Threats from America and Europe will never be the determining factor in Mr. Putin’s decision making. Ukraine is Russia’s single biggest national security issue beyond its borders, and Mr. Putin’s policy, including whether to seize more of Ukraine, will be informed overwhelmingly by national security interests, not near-term economics.
首先，美国需要从俄罗斯的视角来看待乌克兰危机。美国和欧洲的威胁绝不会对普京的决策产生决定性的影响。对于俄罗斯来说，乌克兰是其境外最大的一个影响俄罗斯安全的因素，而普京的政策，包括是否占据乌克兰更多领土的决策，基本上完全是由国家安全利益来决定的，跟短期经济利益关系不大。
Furthermore, Russia has provided Ukraine with some $200-$300 billion in natural gas subsidies since 1991. With an anti-Russian government in Ukraine, Moscow is likely to stop these subsidies, lifting a major economic burden just as the West tries to squeeze it financially.
此外，自1991年以来，俄罗斯为乌克兰提供了2000到3000亿美元的天然气补贴。随着反俄的乌克兰政府上台，莫斯科很可能不会再提供这样的补贴，就在西方试图给俄罗斯施加经济压力的时候，甩掉这个巨大的财政负担。
Second, if Russia pushes farther into Ukraine, America’s attempt at tougher Iran-style sanctions, coordinated with allies, will ultimately fail. Indeed, if Mr. Putin pursues a broader military campaign, a similarly robust response from both America and Europe is unlikely.
其次，如果俄罗斯进一步入侵乌克兰，那么美国跟盟国合作，把对付伊朗的那套强硬制裁措施用在俄罗斯身上的做法最终将会失败。事实上，如果普京想要采取更广泛的军事行动，美国和欧洲做出同样强有力的回应是不太可能的。
Russia’s energy exports, its commercial power and its sheer size make the costs of ignoring it prohibitively high for Europe. Despite the Group of 7’s recent exclusion of Russia, the Europeans don’t want to go to extremes. The Ukrainian ambassador to the European Union called the current sanctions a “mosquito bite”; and even these modest actions have left many European powers feeling skittish. Britain and France have been very cautious, the Austrians and Cypriots even more so. (Austria buys more than half of its gas from Russia; Cyprus has huge Russian banking exposure.)
鉴于俄罗斯的能源出口、商业实力和庞大规模，跟它切断关系对于欧洲来说成本太高。尽管七国集团最近在排挤俄罗斯，但欧洲人可不想走极端。乌克兰驻欧盟的大使称目前的制裁是“蚊叮虫咬”，但就连这样温和的制裁都让很多欧洲国家感到忧心忡忡。英国和法国表现得很谨慎，奥地利人和塞浦路斯人更是如此。（奥地利超过一半的天然气购自俄罗斯；塞浦路斯接受了大量俄罗斯银行投资。）
And finally, even if America seeks stringent sanctions against Russia, other nations will ignore them and offset any damage they cause. India absolutely refuses to treat Russia like a rogue state. More important, China will not observe such sanctions.
最后，即使美国打算对俄罗斯进行严厉制裁，其他一些国家不仅不会参与，而且还会抵消这些制裁造成的任何危害。印度完全拒绝把俄罗斯当成一个流氓国家来对待。更重要的是，中国不会参与这些制裁。
The fundamental problem is that the Obama administration doesn’t want to bear the costs associated with an active foreign policy. That’s understandable. A December Pew poll revealed the lowest level of public support for an active American foreign policy since 1964.
最根本的问题是，奥巴马政府不会愿意承担一个积极外交政策的成本。这是可以理解的。去年12月，皮尤研究中心(Pew)进行的一项民意调查显示，公众对积极美国外交政策的支持率下降到了1964年以来的最低水平。
This domestic pressure was on display in Syria. Mr. Obama’s error was not that he backed away from military action and accepted Russia’s proposal to rid Syria of chemical weapons. The mistake was that he drew a red line that would have been more costly to back up than the United States was willing to tolerate. America lost credibility internationally for failing to make good on its threat.
来自国内的这种压力体现在了叙利亚问题上。奥巴马的错误不是他放弃了军事行动，接受了俄罗斯销毁叙利亚化学武器的建议，而是他划了一条“红线”，捍卫这条红线的代价比美国愿意承担的成本更加昂贵。由于没有兑现威胁，美国丧失了国际信誉。
Unfortunately, the Obama administration is repeating this mistake in Ukraine.
不幸的是，奥巴马政府正在乌克兰问题上重复这个错误。
When Russia proceeded with the annexation of Crimea, the United States and Europe responded with punitive measures that had some economic impact. But they did not by any means “go to the hilt.” Instead, the Americans and Europeans drew an even deeper line in the sand, issuing empty threats of sweeping sanctions if Russia tried to grab more territory in Ukraine.
当俄罗斯继续完成对克里米亚的吞并时，美国和欧洲采用了一些存在经济影响的惩罚性措施作为回应。但他们绝对没有“全力以赴”。相反，美国人和欧洲人在沙子上画了一条甚至更深的线，发出空洞的威胁：如果俄罗斯试图占据乌克兰更多的领土，他们就要对俄罗斯进行全面制裁。
Such sharp rhetoric from the West could push Mr. Putin to be even more aggressive. That’s because he does not believe that the West would ever treat Russia like Iran and implement robust sanctions that would cut off vast areas of Russia’s economy from the West. As Mr. Putin recently explained, in a globalized world “it’s possible to damage each other — but this would be mutual damage.”
西方的这种尖锐的说辞可能会导致普京变得更加咄咄逼人。因为他认为西方绝不会像对待伊朗那样对待俄罗斯，向俄罗斯施加强有力的制裁，切断俄罗斯广袤领土跟西方之间的经济联系。正如普京最近所说，在一个全球化的世界中，“彼此伤害是可能的——但这是一种双输的伤害。”
“Isolating Russia” as if it were Iran or North Korea isn’t a threat America can feasibly make good on. Just because Mr. Putin is acting like the leader of a rogue state, his country cannot be considered as such. Russia boasts the world’s eighth-largest economy. Given the exposure of American corporations to Russia, there would be serious pushback from the private sector if Mr. Obama tried to relegate Russia to rogue-state status. The Obama administration needs to preach what it will ultimately practice. Otherwise Washington’s credibility will erode further as it walks back its words.
像孤立伊朗或朝鲜那样“孤立俄罗斯”，这样的威胁美国实际上是兑现不了的。我们不能仅仅因为普京像一个流氓国家的领导人那样行事，就把俄罗斯视为一个流氓国家。俄罗斯是全球第八大经济体。鉴于制裁俄罗斯可能会对美国公司造成的影响，如果奥巴马试图把俄罗斯贬低到流氓国家的地位，这一定会遭到私营部门的强烈反对。奥巴马政府需要讲清楚它最终会采取哪些行动。否则，当华盛顿食言而肥的时候，它的信誉就会进一步降低。