Arrested in Djibouti while he was en route to Yemen from Somalia, far from his home in Britain, Madhi Hashi was baffled to find himself jailed in Manhattan.
马德希·哈希(Madhi Hashi)在从索马里前往也门的途中在吉布提被捕，这里距离他的家乡英国相隔千山万水。结果，他疑惑地发现自己被关在了曼哈顿。
He admitted to prison officials that he was a member of the Shabab, the Somali militant group. But he “did not understand why he had been brought to the United States to stand trial,” he said, according to court documents.
他向监狱官员承认自己是索马里激进组织青年党(Shabab)的成员。但是法院文件显示，他“不明白自己为何会被带到美国受审”。
The world of soccer was roiled by a similar surprise late last month, heads snapping from Italy to Argentina, when Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch announced that Brooklyn prosecutors had indicted FIFA officials from the other side of the globe, on corruption charges.
上月末，类似的意外扰乱了足球界。美国司法部长洛蕾塔·E·林奇(Loretta E. Lynch)宣布驻布鲁克林的联邦检察官以腐败罪名对地球另一边的国际足联(FIFA)官员提出正式控告，波及的人员从意大利到阿根廷。
Using a growing body of law that allows the United States to prosecute foreign citizens for some actions, the government has been turning the federal courts into international law-enforcement arenas.
在日益扩大的法律体系的框架下，美国可以起诉存在某些行为的外国公民。政府正在利用这一点，把联邦法院变成国际执法机构。
In terrorism cases, the broadening of a key law in 2004, the splintering of terrorist groups and a shift away from military detention has led the United States to bring more foreigners onto its soil, some with only a tenuous link to the United States.
在恐怖主义案件中，一项关键法律在2004年的扩充、恐怖组织的碎片化，以及军事拘押的减少，促使美国把更多的外国公民带到了自己的国土上。其中有些人与美国并没有多大联系。
Perhaps no federal prosecutor was more aggressive about expanding her office’s global reach than Ms. Lynch when she was the United States attorney in Brooklyn, and the FIFA arrests suggest that now that she leads the Justice Department, overseas cases are likely to become even more of a priority.
当林奇担任驻布鲁克林的联邦检察官时，在扩大旗下办公室的国际权限方面，或许没有其他联邦检察官比她更加激进。拘捕FIFA官员一事表明，既然她现在成了司法部的负责人，海外案件很可能会更受重视。
In the FIFA case, prosecutors chose not to invoke “extraterritorial jurisdiction.” Instead they relied on the defendants’ use of American banks and American locations to conduct meetings as the basis for charging them in federal court.
在国际足联的案件中，检察官选择不行使“治外法权”，而是以被告利用美国银行和美国场所会面为由，在联邦法院对他们提出指控。
But in terrorism prosecutions, United States courts are trying people who were not targeting the United States, are not from the United States and, before their court cases, had never set foot in the United States. (In these cases, prosecutors say, the country extraditing or otherwise handing over custody of the defendant is, by definition, choosing to cooperate with the United States.)
不过，在恐怖主义案件中，美国法院在审判一些不以美国为攻击目标的非美国公民，而且他们在被起诉前从未到过美国。（检察官称，在这些案件中，那些引渡或交出在押被告的国家就本身而言在选择与美国合作。）
The United States has become “the jailer, the military front and now the prosecutor” of global crimes, particularly terrorism, said Karen J. Greenberg, director of the Center on National Security at Fordham University School of Law.
福特汉姆大学法学院(Fordham University School of Law)国家安全中心(Center on National Security)主任卡伦·J·格林伯格(Karen J. Greenberg)表示，美国已经成为针对全球犯罪，特别是恐怖主义罪行的“狱警、军事先锋，现在又成了检察官”。
In Brooklyn, the trial earlier this year of Abid Naseer, a Pakistan-born Qaeda member plotting to set off a bomb in Manchester, England, saw a parade of MI5 agents, Manchester police officers and an English mall security expert.
今年早些时候，阿比德·纳席尔(Abid Naseer)在布鲁克林受审。这名出生于巴基斯坦的基地组织成员密谋在英国曼彻斯特引爆炸弹。庭审现场可以看到军情五处的探员、曼彻斯特的警察，以及英国的一名商场安全专家进进出出。
Another man, Lawal Babafemi, who will be sentenced in the summer after pleading guilty to providing support for terrorism, was a Nigerian who traveled to Chad and Sudan before being smuggled to Yemen by a Ugandan, then was arrested and sent to Brooklyn after he returned to Nigeria.
另一名男子拉瓦尔·巴巴费米(Lawal Babafemi)对于为恐怖组织提供支持的指控表示认罪，将于今年夏季接受判决。这名尼日利亚公民先是前往乍得和苏丹，然后被一名乌干达人偷运至也门，最终在回到尼日利亚后被捕，并被送至布鲁克林。
Across the East River, in Manhattan federal court, Mohamed Ahmed, accused of terrorism, wrote to the court that he was detained, beaten and interrogated at the direction of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Nigeria, denied help from the consulates of Sweden, where he was a permanent resident, and Eritrea, where he is a citizen, until he was blindfolded, put on a plane and sent to New York for prosecution.
在东河对岸的曼哈顿联邦法庭上，被控恐怖主义罪行的穆罕默德·艾哈迈德(Mohamed Ahmed)在写给法庭的材料中称，在尼日利亚时，在联邦调查局（Federal Bureau of Investigation，简称FBI）的示意下，他被关押并遭到殴打和审讯。他还表示，尽管自己曾是瑞典的永久性居民，现在还是厄立特里亚的公民，但这两个国家的领事馆提供帮助时均遭到拒绝，直到他被蒙住眼睛坐上飞机，被送到纽约接受起诉。
Mr. Hashi’s case is another example of this phenomenon, illustrating how federal prosecutors are able to bring these cases, and why they choose to, despite protests from defense lawyers who say their clients are often tortured or denied their rights in the process.
哈希案是这一现象的又一案例，阐释了联邦检察官如何能对这些案件提起诉讼，以及他们为何选择这么做。但辩护律师表示抗议，称在这个过程中，其当事人往往会遭到拷打，权利被剥夺。
Mr. Hashi was born in Somalia and moved to England in 1995. By 2009, he had gone to Somalia and joined the Somali-affiliated Shabab. By 2012, after Shabab intelligence imprisoned him because they thought he was a spy, he had decided to fight in Yemen instead, prosecutors said. En route, he was arrested in the tiny East African nation of Djibouti, along with two other Shabab fighters, Ali Yasin Ahmed and Mohamed Yusuf, both of them Somali-born Swedes.
哈希出生于索马里，并于1995年移居英格兰。到2009年时，他已经回到索马里并加入了该国的青年党。检方称，到2012年，他被认为是间谍而遭到青年党情报机构的关押，此后，他决定去也门战斗。在前往也门的路上，哈希在东非小国吉布提被捕。和他同时被捕的还有两名出生于索马里的瑞典籍青年党武装分子阿里·亚辛·艾哈迈德(Ali Yasin Ahmed)和穆罕默德·优素福(Mohamed Yusuf)。
Mr. Hashi told the court that he watched Mr. Ahmed being tortured, and he was threatened with torture and sexual abuse, by Djiboutian law enforcement; when the F.B.I. joined in the interrogations, he says he was advised of his rights but remained fearful, and gave statements because of that fear.
哈希对法庭表示，他目睹了艾哈迈德被吉布提执法人员严刑拷打的情形，对方还用酷刑和性虐待威胁他。他说，FBI加入审讯时告知了他可享有的权利，但他依然很恐惧，并且正是因为这种恐惧他才给出了口供。
Prosecutors conceded that to obtain information on any immediate threats, the F.B.I. initially interviewed men without advising them of their rights, but subsequently interviewed them separately and explained their rights to them; prosecutors eventually agreed not to use any of the statements taken in Djibouti at trial.
检方承认，为了获取关于紧急威胁的信息，FBI起初在审问时未告知对方的权利，但随后在进行单独审问时，FBI向对方解释了他们可享有的权利。检方最终同意在庭审时不使用在吉布提获得的任何口供。
All three men were sent to the United States for prosecution in late 2012, and have been held in solitary confinement since.
三人均于2012年年底被送往美国接受起诉，并且自那时以来，他们一直被单独关押。
Their lawyers in the United States filed a motion to dismiss the charges against them, which included providing material support to a terrorist group and conspiracy to provide such support. “Nothing that the government has provided to date shows that the defendant had any notice or reason to believe that he was subjecting himself to U.S. law and could be hauled into a U.S. court for his conduct,” Jane Simkin Smith and David Stern, lawyers for Mr. Yusuf, wrote in a motion that the other defendants joined.
他们在美国的律师均提出动议，要求驳回对他们的指控。相关指控包括为一个恐怖组织提供实质性帮助及密谋提供这类帮助。“迄今为止，政府未提供任何证据，显示被告收到了通知，或是有理由认为自己将受美国法律的约束，并且会因自己的行为而被押上美国的法庭，”优素福的代理律师简·西姆金·史密斯(Jane Simkin Smith)和戴维·斯特恩(David Stern)在动议中写道。另两名被告也加入了该动议。
Brooklyn prosecutors prevailed, however, pointing to earlier rulings about how terrorism law can be used globally.
但布鲁克林检方赢了，指向了早前有关反恐法在何种情况下能适用于全球的判决。
In 2004, when Congress updated the terrorism law, it said that extraterritorial jurisdiction applies in six situations. One that was applied here was breathtakingly simple: that the person is “brought into” the country after the conduct in question. Here, the prosecutors and F.B.I. flew the men into Kennedy International Airport from Djibouti. As a Southern District federal judge, P. Kevin Castel, ruled in the case of Mr. Ahmed, bringing someone in “alone is a sufficient statutory predicate for jurisdiction.”
2004年修订反恐法时，国会称境外司法权适用于六种情况。本案中适用的情况非常简单：当事人在作出有问题的行为后“被带至”美国境内。在本案中，检方和FBI用飞机将他们从吉布提送到了肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport)。作为南区的一名联邦法官，P·凯文·卡斯特尔(P. Kevin Castel)对阿里·亚辛·艾哈迈德一案做出了裁决，称将当事人带来美国“这一点就足以作为行使司法权的法律依据”。
Prosecutors, though, are reluctant to rely entirely on the fact that the person was flown — by the United States government — into the United States, and here they relied on two additional justifications. One was that the defendants “aided and abetted” United States citizens when they recruited, talked to or fought alongside them in Somalia. Another was that the acts affected foreign or interstate commerce, where these defendants recruited people to go overseas and those people spent money getting there
但检方不愿仅仅依赖被告已被美国政府用飞机带到了美国境内这一点。在本案中，他们还用到了另外两个理由。一个是被告在招募美国公民或与其交谈并在索马里并肩作战时，“协助并怂恿”了他们。另一个理由是，被告的行为影响了外国或国际贸易，因为他们是招人去国外，而相关人员在前往目的地期间要花钱。
Defense lawyers also raised a question of due process, or whether trying the defendants in the United States was fair. Prosecutors responded that there was a link to the United States: The Shabab was a designated foreign terrorist group that had denounced the United States. Also, the prosecutors — Shreve Ariail, Seth D. DuCharme and Richard M. Tucker — cited a 2011 decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit: Defendants did not need to understand that they could be subject to criminal prosecution in the United States, “so long as they would reasonably understand that their conduct was criminal and subject them to prosecution somewhere.”
辩护律师还对程序的正当性，以及在美国审讯被告是否公平提出了质疑。检方回应称案件与美国有关系，因为青年党被认定为外国恐怖组织，而且曾表达过对美国的敌意。检察官施里夫·阿里亚耶(Shreve Ariail)、塞思·D·杜塞姆(Seth D. DuCharme)和理查德·M·塔克(Richard M. Tucker)还援引了美国联邦第二巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit)在 2011年作出的一项判决：被告不需要明白他们可能会在美国遭到刑事起诉，“只要他们有理由认为自己的行为属于犯罪，并可能导致他们在某个地方被起诉”。
Judge Sandra L. Townes ruled in the prosecution’s favor, and the case went forward.
桑德拉·L·汤斯(Sandra L. Townes)法官作出了有利于检方的判决，案件得以继续。
Federal prosecutors are going after these cases for several reasons, prosecutors and national security experts said. One is simply that they can, after Congress broadened extraterritorial jurisdiction for terrorism in 2004.
检察官和国家安全专家称，联邦检方追查这些案件有多方面的原因。其中一个原因仅仅是因为国会2004年扩大了反恐法的境外司法权后，他们具备了这么做的能力。
They see the cases as a smart alternative to diplomacy or drone strikes. 
他们认为，相对于外交手段和无人机袭击，这些案件是一种巧妙的替代选择。
Federal trials are far preferable to indefinite detention, Ms. Greenberg said, and represent a vote of confidence in the criminal justice system as opposed to other options, like unlawful interrogation or targeted killings. “On the downside, it takes on a global responsibility that could one day be troubling in its potential to creep into other areas of law enforcement on global issues, from drugs to cybercrime,” she said.
格林伯格表示，联邦审判远比无限期关押好，并且还代表着对不同于非法审讯和定点清除等其他选择的刑事司法制度的支持。“缺点是，它承担起了一项全球性的职责，这项职责可能会在某一天带来麻烦，因为它可能会扩展到从毒品到网络犯罪的全球性问题的执法领域，”她说。
Mr. Hashi pleaded guilty last month along with his co-defendants, in return for a suggested 15-year sentence. At the hearing, he seemed polite and friendly, joking with the judge as he asked about where he would be sent once his prison term ended.
哈希和共同被告均于上月认罪，换取到了建议中的15年拘禁。在审讯现场，他看上去彬彬有礼且待人友好，在讯问自己刑满后将被送去何地时，他还和法官开起了玩笑。