WASHINGTON — A few days ago, a bipartisan majority in Congress voted to reopen the federal government and remove the cloud of uncertainty hanging over our economy. This put an end to a messy, and at times downright ugly, political process. But when you look through the noise of the moment, it showed that America’s leaders are committed, on a bipartisan basis, to doing the right thing for our economy and our standing around the world. The dollar is the world’s reserve currency and, for over 200 years, we have established ourselves as the backbone of the global financial system. The world now knows we are and will remain the safest, most reliable place to invest.
华盛顿——几天前，国会跨党派多数表决同意重启联邦政府，同时消除了笼罩在美国经济上空的不确定性。而这也为一场混乱的、有时根本就是丑陋的政治闹剧画上了句号。但拨开现时的喧嚣，你会发现，在跨党派基础上，美国的领导者们是一心想为我们的经济和我们国家在世界上的地位做出正确选择的。美元是全球的储备货币，而200多年来，我们已发展成为世界金融体系的支柱。现在全世界知道了，我们是、并将继续是最安全、最可靠投资去处。
Make no mistake: What took place was a political crisis, not an economic one. When faced with a true economic crisis in 2008 — the worst since the Great Depression — our economy proved its resilience. Since then, the American people have painstakingly fought their way back from the brink. Now businesses are hiring, our economy is growing, and we have cut our deficits in half. Throughout this period, the United States once again became a source of strength for the global economy.
毋庸置疑：刚发生的是场政治危机，而不是经济危机。当面对2008年那场真正的经济危机时——那是自大萧条(Great Depression)以来最严重的危机——美国经济证明了它的韧性。自那以来，美国人民忍受艰辛从崩溃的边缘挣扎着走回来。现在企业开始招聘，我们的经济在增长，我们还将赤字水平降低了一半。在此期间，我们重新成为全球经济的一个动力来源。
But we are not where we want to be. Growth is not strong enough, and job creation needs to accelerate. And one of the fundamental reasons our economy is not firing on all cylinders is Washington. Our economy has been poised to make serious strides over the last few years, but self-inflicted political wounds have gotten in the way time after time.
但我们还没有达到我们想要的状态。经济增长不够强劲，创造新工作岗位的速度仍需加快。而我们的经济没能火力全开的根本原因之一便是华盛顿。过去几年内，美国经济一直蓄势待发，准备取得巨大发展，但我们自己造成的政治问题却一次又一次挡在了经济发展的路上。
Without question, the government shutdown and the debt ceiling impasse have led to economic hardship in every corner of the country. While we do not yet know the exact magnitude of the damage, these events have generated unnecessary headwinds for the economy. We should never again take this country to the point of near-default in order to exact political gain.
毫无疑问，政府停摆和债务上限僵局给美国全国范围内带去了经济困难。尽管我们目前尚不清楚危害的具体程度，但这些事件已为经济发展带来不必要的阻碍。我们再也不能为了政治得失而将这个国家带向濒临违约的境地了。
It is time to put an end to governing by crisis and focus on accelerating economic growth and job creation. If we are open to what we can achieve together rather than simply setting our sights on our divisions, there is a lot we can do to support America’s workers and businesses. This is what the American people expect from their leaders in Washington.
我们应该停止通过危机治理国家，专注于加速经济发展和创造就业。如果我们能够把眼光放在我们在一起能达到的成就上，而不是局限于我们代表的不同派别，我们就能做很多事情来支持美国的工人和企业。这是美国人民期待华盛顿的领导人去做的事。
We can start by hammering out a budget agreement that builds on the progress we have already made to lower our budget deficits. This is an opportunity to improve our nation’s long-term fiscal health, and it should be achieved through a comprehensive package that shrinks our deficits, protects Medicare and Social Security for those who rely on it, and expands our economy well into the future. That means closing wasteful tax loopholes and making targeted investments to improve our education system, increase domestic energy production, and expand our manufacturing base.
我们可以从制定一项预算协议开始，这一协议建立在我们为降低预算赤字所已取得的进展之上。这是加强我们国家长期财政健康的机会，我们应该抓住这一机会，推出一项全面计划，降低赤字，为那些依赖联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和社会安全福利(Social Security)的人保护这些制度，保持经济的增长前景。而这就意味着封堵浪费的税收漏洞，进行有的放矢的投资以改善我们的教育制度，增加国内能源产量，并且提高我们的制造业比重。
We must come together to fix the blunt spending cuts known as sequestration, once and for all. These indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts, which went into effect earlier this year, were intended to be so mutually disagreeable that they would force Congress to find agreement on a balanced package of deficit reduction measures. But that agreement was not reached in time. As independent economists and business leaders will tell you, these cuts have already slowed economic growth, just as the economy was getting traction. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that by the third quarter of next year, sequestration will have reduced real gross domestic product by as much as 1.2 percent, which means as many as 1.6 million fewer American jobs.
我们必须齐心协力彻底解决被称为“自动减赤”的这些生硬的开支削减计划。这些在今年早些时候生效的计划会进行不做区分的、全面的削减，这是成心让两党都难以接受，从而迫使国会不得不寻求达成协议，制定出一套包含赤字削减措施的折中方案。但国会没能及时达成这一协议。正如独立经济学家和企业领导者会告诉你的那样，正当经济开始复苏之际，这些开支削减计划对发展构成了阻碍。不受党派控制的国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)估计，到明年第三季度，自动减赤给美国国内生产总值带来高达1.2%的减幅，而这意味着美国将失去多达160万个工作岗位。
In addition to tackling our budget challenges, Washington can take several actions to support economic growth.
除了解决我们的预算难题，华盛顿还可以采取一些行动支持经济发展。
Congress should pass comprehensive immigration reform. The bipartisan bill already passed by the Senate would strengthen our borders, provide a pathway to earned citizenship, and boost growth by more than a trillion dollars while reducing our deficits.
国会应通过全面的移民改革。参议院已经通过的跨党派法案将加强我们的边防，提供获得合法公民身份的途经，并在降低赤字的同时给经济带来超过1万亿美元的增长。
Another piece of bipartisan legislation that has passed the Senate, but not the House of Representatives, is the farm bill. Getting this bill signed into law is not only important for America’s farmers and protecting America’s most vulnerable children, it is important for our economy.
另外一项跨党派立法也已在参议院获得通过，但尚未在众议院通过，那就是农业法案。让这部法案得以签署成为法律，不仅对美国农民及保护我们最为脆弱的孩子十分重要，也是美国经济的一件大事。
Finally, we need to come together soon to complete the bipartisan work that has already begun to reform our business tax code, modernize our housing finance system and renew trade promotion authority while repairing our deteriorating roads, highways and bridges.
最后，我们需要很快一起行动，完成两党已开始的美国企业税法改革，推动住房金融体制的现代化，更新贸易促进授权，同时修复我们那些日益老化的道路、公路和桥梁。
As we move past the government shutdown and debt ceiling crisis, it is important to remember that the foundation of our democracy is the healthy competition of ideas. It is the lifeblood of our country.
随着我们结束政府停摆和债务上限危机，我们要记住我国民主的基石是不同观点的健康竞争。这是我们国家的生命线。
But we must work across party and ideological lines for the good of the United States. I am once again hopeful that Democrats and Republicans can come together to accomplish meaningful things to help grow our economy. The truth is, the sensible center is not out of reach. We demonstrated that in recent days. And I believe we can demonstrate that again as we move forward.
但是我们必须为了美国的利益开展跨越党派和意识形态分歧的合作。我再一次燃起了希望，民主党和共和党能够齐心协力做出有意义的事情，帮助我们的经济取得发展。事实是，理性的中间派并非遥不可及。最近几天，我们展示了这一点。而且我相信，随着我们继续前进，我们可以再次证明这一点。