BANGKOK — As antigovernment protesters continued their occupation of crucial parts of Bangkok’s main commercial and business districts, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra on Tuesday said she was “protecting democracy” and would not resign.
曼谷——随着反政府抗议者继续占领曼谷主要商业区的关键区域，泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)周二表示，她正在“保卫民主制度”，不会辞职。
“Democracy belongs to the entire Thai people,” she said in a Twitter message, a day after the leaders of the protests began what they called a shutdown of Bangkok. Although Ms. Yingluck’s party is despised by many southerners and members of the Thai elite, it remains very popular in the northern half of the country and is widely expected to win scheduled elections.
在抗议活动领导人开始他们所说的封锁曼谷行动一天后，英拉在Twitter上发布讯息称，“民主属于全体泰国人民。”英拉所在政党虽然遭到很多南方人和精英人士的鄙视，在泰国北部却仍然很受欢迎，人们普遍预计该党将赢得预先排定的选举。
The leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, who has been charged by the authorities with rebellion, threatened on Tuesday to “close all government offices” if Ms. Yingluck did not step down in the coming days.
周二，抗议活动领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)威胁称，如果英拉不在未来几天之内下台，他们将会“封锁所有政府办公室”。当局已经指控素贴发动叛乱。
“And if she remains stubborn, we will take custody of the prime minister and all ministers,” he said to a cheering crowd at a major Bangkok intersection blocked by protesters. Mr. Suthep advised government ministers to “send their wives and children to somewhere so that they can escape when the emergency takes place.”
在曼谷一个已被抗议者阻断的主要十字路口，素贴向欢呼的群众说，“如果她顽固不化，我们就会拘押总理和所有部长。”素贴还建议政府各部部长“将妻子和儿女送到某个安全地方，以便在发生紧急情况之时逃离”。
Protesters are demanding the “eradication” from politics of Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a tycoon and former prime minister. Ms. Yingluck called elections, scheduled for Feb. 2, as an early response to the protests. But the demonstrators are opposed, arguing that the vote would provide the Shinawatra clan greater domination of the political system. They would like, instead, to institute an alternative form of government involving an unelected “people’s council” that would replace Parliament.
抗议者要求将英拉及其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)从政界“根除”。他信是商界大亨，曾任泰国总理。早期对抗议活动做出回应时，英拉曾要求在2月2日举行选举。但示威者表示反对，理由是选举会加强西瓦那家族对政治体系的控制。他们希望成立另一种形式的政府，用不由选举产生的“人民委员会”来代替议会。
The demonstrators say they hope to show the impotence of the government by paralyzing parts of the capital — and they appear to have partially achieved this goal. But it remains to be seen how long they can sustain their protests, especially if businesses and residents inconvenienced by street blockades turn against them.
示威者表示，他们希望使首都部分地区陷入瘫痪，借此说明政府无能。如今，他们似乎已经部分地实现了这个目标。但抗议活动能坚持多长时间尚待观察，如果因街道封锁而出行不便的商家和居民转而反对他们，坚持的难度就更大。
Political observers say there are no angels among the leading personalities involved in the standoff.
政治观察人士表示，这次僵局的领导人物都不是什么天使。
Mr. Thaksin has been accused several times of using the powers of the state — and the weight of his political party — to further his personal interests. When he was in power from 2001 to 2006, Mr. Thaksin intimidated the media and sought to control many government institutions that are meant to be independent.
他信曾多次被控利用国家权力及其政党势力谋取私利。在2001年至2006年执政期间，他信曾恐吓媒体，试图控制很多本该独立运行的政府机构。
Mr. Suthep, a career politician and former deputy prime minister, says he is fighting to banish corruption and the Shinawatra clan. But he has been embroiled in a number of corruption scandals himself. In addition, when he was in power in 2010 a crackdown against protesters supporting Mr. Thaksin left more than 90 people dead, and Thailand’s Department of Special Investigation has said he was among those “ordering the military to use live ammunition against protesters.”
职业政客、前副总理素贴表示他正在为铲除腐败和西瓦那家族而奋斗，但他自己也卷入了多起腐败丑闻。除此之外，2010年素贴掌权时，一场镇压支持他信的抗议者的行动导致90多人死亡，泰国特别案件调查厅(Department of Special Investigation)曾表示，素贴是“命令军队对抗议者使用实弹”的人之一。
He faces murder charges but has said he is innocent. He has not appeared in court, he says, because he is too busy leading the protests.
素贴面临谋杀指控，但却声称自己无罪。他说，他之所以没有出庭，是因为忙着领导抗议活动。
A spokeswoman for the United States State Department, Marie Harf, on Monday repeated a call for a strengthening of “democratic principles” in Thailand. She also applauded the “restraint” showed by the government toward the protesters.
周一，美国国务院女发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)再次呼吁泰国加强“民主原则”。她还赞扬了政府对抗议者保持的“克制态度”。
Protest leaders and the Democrat Party, which is boycotting the election, have rejected Ms. Yingluck’s offer to discuss possibly delaying the election. Until this week the government had been firm that there were no provisions in the law to postpone elections.
抗议领袖和抵制选举的民主党都拒绝了英拉就推迟选举进行讨论的提议。直到本周，政府一直坚称法律中没有推迟选举的条款。
Somchai Srisuthiyakorn, an election commissioner who has been vocal in his skepticism that elections can take place on time, said the country risked destruction. “Don’t claim the limitations of the law and allow the country to be destroyed,” he said.
选举委员会委员颂猜·西素提亚空(Somchai Srisuthiyakorn)一直在高声质疑选举能否如期进行，并称泰国有毁灭的危险。他说，“不要拿法律限制做借口，任由泰国被摧毁。”
Yet the Election Commission said it would not attend the government’s proposed forum on the issue, saying a large meeting would be unwieldy. Ms. Yingluck’s governing party on Tuesday accused the commission of dragging its feet, “playing politics” and “opposing” the elections.
然而，选举委员会说，它不会参加政府所提议的关于此事的讨论，理由是大型会议往往会无果而终。周二，英拉的执政党指责选举委员会是在拖延时间、“玩弄政治权术”和“反对”选举。
Mr. Somchai last month appeared to make his case for a delay. “We used to think that elections were the way to solve problems in society, like starting over,” he said, adding that he feared violence. “It’s as if it’s not worth it to have elections.”
上个月，颂猜似乎已经说明了选举推迟的理由。“我们一向认为，选举是解决社会问题的办法，就像重新开始一样，”他说，并且表示自己害怕暴力。“鉴于目前的形势，似乎不值得举行选举。”
In a city as vast as Bangkok, many areas were unaffected by the protests, which are concentrated in the central business district.
曼谷是一座大城市，许多地区都没有受到抗议影响。抗议活动主要集中在中心商业区。
Protesters retreated from at least two major intersections and in some areas the crowds were thinner than on Monday, the first day of the shutdown. Still, thousands of protesters remained on the streets. Bangkok’s largest shopping malls, which are in the heart of the protest area, said they would close early. And the Bank of Thailand reported that 135 bank branches were either closed or had shortened their operating hours.
目前，至少有两个主要路口的抗议者已经开始撤离，一些地方的人也比周一少了一些。周一是封锁行动的第一天。但是，街上仍然有数千名抗议者。地处抗议区中心的一些曼谷大型商场表示，他们将提前关门。泰国国家银行(Bank of Thailand)称，有135家银行分支要么是没有开门，要么就缩短了营业时间。
Despite an announcement by the government last week that thousands of soldiers had been called up to protect the capital, the presence of security forces remained very light, with protesters directing traffic in the city’s central business district. Groups of protesters marched to government offices and gathered in front of the Police Headquarters, where they shouted that the police were “slaves” to Mr. Thaksin.
政府上周宣布，他们调集了数千名士兵来保护曼谷，尽管如此，出现在曼谷的安保人员仍然很少，在曼谷中心商业区指挥交通的是抗议者。一群群抗议者大步走向政府办公室，并在警察总部门口集结，高呼警察是他信的“奴隶”。