Concerned about illicit money flowing into luxury real estate, the Treasury Department said Wednesday that it would begin identifying and tracking secret buyers of high-end properties.
由于担心非法资金流入豪宅市场，美国财政部(Treasury Department)在周三表示，该机构将开始确认并追踪高端房产的秘密买家。
The initiative will start in two of the nation’s major destinations for global wealth: Manhattan and Miami-Dade County. It will shine a light on the darkest corner of the real estate market: all-cash purchases made by shell companies that often shield purchasers’ identities.
这项举措将先从美国两个主要的全球财富聚集地开始：曼哈顿和迈阿密–戴德县(Miami-Dade County)。这将照亮房地产市场中最见不得光的角落：通常替买家隐瞒身份的空壳公司，用现金全款购买房产的做法。
It is the first time the federal government has required real estate companies to disclose names behind all-cash transactions, and it is likely to send shudders through the real estate industry, which has benefited enormously in recent years from a building boom increasingly dependent on wealthy, secretive buyers.
这是联邦政府首次要求房地产公司透露进行现金全款交易的买主的姓名，这可能会在房地产业引发强烈震动。富有的神秘买家催生的建设热潮，这几年让房地产业获益颇丰。
The initiative is part of a broader federal effort to increase the focus on money laundering in real estate. Treasury and federal law enforcement officials said they were putting greater resources into investigating luxury real estate sales that involve shell companies like limited liability companies, often known as L.L.C.s; partnerships; and other entities.
联邦政府加强了对房地产业洗钱现象的关注，上述举措是其广泛努力的一部分。财政部官员及联邦执法官员表示，他们投入了大量资源，调查与空壳公司有关的豪宅交易，包括有限责任公司（通常简称为LLC）、合伙公司及其他实体。
Officials said the new government efforts were inspired in part by a series last year in The New York Times that examined the rising use of shell companies as foreign buyers increasingly sought safe havens for their money in the United States.
官员们表示，政府的新举措部分是受到《纽约时报》去年一系列报道的启发。随着外国购买者越来越多地来到美国为其资金寻找安全避风港，利用空壳公司的现象不断增加，时报对此进行了调查。
The use of shell companies in real estate is legal, and L.L.C.s have a range of uses unrelated to secrecy. But a top Treasury official, Jennifer Shasky Calvery, said her agency had seen instances in which multimillion-dollar homes were being used as safe deposit boxes for ill-gotten gains, in transactions made more opaque by the use of anonymous shell companies.
利用空壳公司购买房产是合法行为，除了保密目的外，设立有限责任公司还有其他许多目的。但财政部高层官员珍妮弗·沙斯基·卡尔韦里(Jennifer Shasky Calvery)表示，该机构发现一些买家利用匿名的空壳公司开展比较隐秘的交易，投入数以百万美元计的资金用于购房，以此作为储存非法所得的保险柜。
“We are concerned about the possibility that dirty money is being put into luxury real estate,” said Ms. Calvery, the director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Treasury unit running the initiative. “We think some of the bigger risk is around the least transparent transactions.”
“我们担心这些黑钱可能被用于购买豪宅，”财政部金融犯罪执法局(Financial Crimes Enforcement Network)局长卡尔韦里说。“我们认为那些最不透明的交易中风险较大。”该部门负责执行这项举措。
The department will focus on sales that are both paid for all in cash and conducted using shell companies. The government is requiring title insurance companies, which are involved in virtually all sales, to discover the identities of buyers and submit the information to the Treasury. The government will put the information into a database for law enforcement.
该部门将重点调查利用现金购房及通过空壳公司购房的交易。政府要求产权保险公司查明买家身份，并将相关信息提交给财政部，几乎所有交易中都有这种公司参与。政府会将这些信息纳入数据库，为执法提供支持。
The Treasury’s program will affect billions of dollars in real estate transactions. In Manhattan, the initiative requires buyers in sales of more than $3 million to be reported; in Miami-Dade County, it requires reporting on sales of more than $1 million. In Manhattan, 1,045 residential sales cost more than $3 million in the second half of 2015, worth some $6.5 billion in aggregate, according to PropertyShark, a real estate data company.
财政部的举措将影响数十亿美元的房地产交易。在曼哈顿，该举措要求上报成交价超过300万美元的房屋买主的身份；在迈阿密–戴德县，该举措要求上报价格超过100万美元的交易。据房地产数据公司PropertyShark透露，2015年下半年，曼哈顿共有1045套住宅的成交价超过300万美元，总共价值65亿美元。
In addition to starting in only two markets, the requirement runs from March through August. If Treasury officials find that many sales involved suspicious money, Ms. Calvery said, they would develop permanent reporting requirements across the country.
除了只在上述两个市场实施之外，相关规定的实施期限也只是3月到8月。卡尔韦里表示，如果财政部官员发现，很多交易涉及可疑资金，就会在全国制定持久性的呈报要求。
Real estate professionals, especially in the luxury market, often know little about buyers, and until now, they have not been legally required to. In its investigation, The Times found that nearly half of homes nationwide worth at least $5 million are purchased using shell companies. In Manhattan and Los Angeles, the figure is higher.
房地产从业人员，特别是豪宅市场的从业人员，通常对买主知之甚少，到目前为止，还没有法律要求他们查明相关信息。时报在调查中发现，在全国范围内价值超过500万美元的房产中，将近一半是利用空壳公司购买的。在曼哈顿和洛杉矶，这个数字更高。
In New York, The Times examined a decade of ownership at an iconic condominium complex near Central Park, the Time Warner Center, and found a number of hidden owners who had been the subjects of government investigations. They included former Russian senators, a former governor from Colombia, a British financier, and a businessman tied to the prime minister of Malaysia, who is now under investigation. In Florida, The Times uncovered a condominium in Boca Raton tied to Mexico’s top housing official, who recently stepped down and is now a leading contender for the governor’s office in the southern state of Oaxaca.
在纽约，时报对中央公园附近标志性的共管公寓时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)过去十年的所有权进行了调查，发现了一些隐藏身份的业主是政府的调查对象。其中包括一名俄罗斯前参议员、哥伦比亚的一名前州长、一名英国金融家，以及一名与正在接受调查的马来西亚总理有关联的商人。在佛罗里达州，时报发现波卡拉顿市的一栋共管公寓与墨西哥住房部门的一名高层官员有关。该名官员最近辞职，目前在南部瓦哈卡州的州长竞争中领先。
Ms. Calvery said The Times investigation had been important in raising awareness about problems with shell companies and in convincing the Treasury that more scrutiny of high-end buyers is needed. “It’s easier to talk about it with people who aren’t specialists in our area when they read about it in the newspaper,” she said.
卡尔韦里表示，时报的调查起到了重要作用，它使空壳公司问题受到了更多重视，有助于说服财政部，需要对高端住宅买主开展更多调查。她说，“我们与专业领域之外的人谈到这个问题时，如果他们在报纸上读到过，讨论就更容易一些。”
Indeed, last spring, New York City’s Finance Department began requiring shell companies buying real estate to report their members to the city. That rule, however, is less far-reaching than the Treasury action.
实际上，去年春天，纽约市财政局就开始要求购买房产的空壳公司向市政机构披露其成员名单。不过，那项规定并不及财政部此次采取的措施影响深远。
Real estate is becoming a larger target for law enforcement as well. According to two people with knowledge of cases at the Justice Department, lawyers there will be shaping cases directly around money laundering in real estate deals rather than adding such transactions to other cases, also partly in response to The Times’s series. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is also creating a new unit to focus on money laundering, and real estate will be a central emphasis, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.
房地产行业也在成为执法部门更加重视的调查目标。据两名知情人士透露，司法部的检察人员将直接围绕房地产交易中的洗钱行为提起诉讼，而不是在其他案件中附加此类指控。这在某种程度上也是受《纽约时报》系列报道的影响。美国联邦调查局(FBI)亦在增设一个新部门，专门调查洗钱犯罪，而房地产将是调查的核心领域。该消息来自对此事有直接了解的两名人士。
The new scrutiny will probably increase headaches for the real estate industry, in part because shell companies are not easy to penetrate. Buyers often mask their identities by layering companies on top of other shell companies. Buyers also commonly fill out L.L.C. formation papers using the names of lawyers or other place holders, often called “nominees,” instead of their own names.
新增的严格审核措施可能会让房地产行业的人士更加头痛，部分原因在于，要摸清空壳公司的状况并不容易。买家往往会在空壳公司之上套上一层层的所有权公司，以此隐藏自己的身份。他们通常也不会在有限责任公司的创立文件上填写自己的名字，而是写上律师或其他代理人的名字，后者往往被称作“名义持有者”(nominee)。
The Treasury is looking for the actual owners behind shell companies, often referred to as the beneficial owners. “We’re not looking for nominees,” Ms. Calvery said.
财政部正在寻找这些空壳公司背后真正的所有者，他们通常被称为实益所有人。“我们要找的不是名义持有者，”卡尔韦里说。
In its order, the Treasury defined beneficial owners as “each individual who, directly or indirectly, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests” of the entity that bought the property. Once title companies identify those people, they are required to copy driver’s licenses or passports and also pass the individuals’ names to the Treasury Department.
财政部按照自己的规则将实益所有人定义为，“直接或间接拥有”购买房产的实体“25%及以上股权的所有个人”。一旦产权公司确认了这些人的身份，他们就得将其姓名和驾照或护照复印件提交给财政部。
Stephen Hudak, a spokesman for the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, said any title companies or purchasers who provided false information could face penalties.
财政部金融犯罪执法局发言人史蒂芬·赫达克(Stephen Hudak)表示，任何提交假信息的产权公司或购房者都将受到处罚。
Under the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Treasury is already authorized to require real estate companies to scrutinize real estate buyers, but the department has in the past faced fierce lobbying against issuing such rules. The department already requires mortgage lenders to scrutinize buyers. But cash buyers have been a big hole in the government’s oversight of the market, Ms. Calvery said.
根据美国的《爱国者法案》(U.S.A. Patriot Act)，财政部之前就有权要求房地产公司严格审核购房者的信息，但该部门在过去面临强有力的游说压力，难以发布此类规则。财政部已经要求抵押贷款出借方对购房者的信息进行严格审核。但卡尔弗里表示，现金交易一直是政府这方面监管的一个大漏洞。