DONETSK, Ukraine — As workers streamed into the Donetsk Metallurgical Plant, a sprawling, Soviet-era factory complex here, they had a message for protesters in Kiev’s Independence Square: Get back to work.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——鱼贯走进顿涅茨克冶炼厂的时候，工人们想向基辅独立广场的抗议者传达一条讯息：回去工作吧。顿涅茨克冶炼厂是本地一家规模庞大的工厂，建于前苏联时期。
“The answer is simple: Get some tanks and drive them off the square,” said Viktor Ruzyenko, a 30-year veteran of the factory who was coming off the night shift into the early morning frost. “Even under the Communists I never saw anything so disgraceful.”
维克多·鲁齐延科(Viktor Ruzyenko)说，“解决的办法相当简单，那就是弄一些坦克把示威者赶出广场。即便是在共产党统治那会儿，我都没见过这么可耻的事情。”鲁奇延科是一个有30年工龄的老工人，刚刚下了夜班，走进霜冻的清晨。
Top Western diplomats and opposition leaders have called on Ukraine’s president, Viktor F. Yanukovich, to respect public sentiment and sign an association agreement with the European Union, and the protesters want him to resign. But in a country deeply divided between the pro-European West and the pro-Russian East, that is only half the story. Here in eastern Ukraine, the base of Mr. Yanukovich’s support, people envision a different future: a quick end to the protests and a deal to join the customs union of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, which would bind Ukraine more closely with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan.
西方高级外交官和反对党领袖已经呼吁乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)尊重民意，签署和欧盟的联系国协定，抗议者还希望他宣布辞职。然而，在这个亲欧的西部和亲俄的东部之间严重分化的国家，上述情况只反映了一半的现状。在乌克兰的东部，也就是亚努科维奇的根据地，人们设想了一个不同的未来，那就是迅速终结抗议，和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)签订加入关税联盟的协议，该协议会把乌克兰和俄罗斯、白俄罗斯及哈萨克斯坦更紧密地绑在一起。
The tug of war between Europe and Russia over Ukraine’s future has roused strong passions here, along with fears that the country could splinter into open conflict.
欧洲和俄罗斯就乌克兰的未来展开的较量，已经在这里引发了强烈的情绪，以及对乌克兰可能会爆发公开冲突的担忧。
“This is the way it works in Ukraine: The East makes the money, and the West eats it,” said Sergey Yermolenko, 35, a programmer who earlier worked for the state-run railroad company. He “fully supported the president” for clearing Independence Square on Wednesday, he said, and called the protesters’ demolition of a statue of Lenin “crude hooliganism.”
35岁的程序员谢尔盖·叶尔莫连科(Sergey Yermolenko)说，“这就是乌克兰通行的行事方式：东部的人挣钱，西部的人把钱吞了。”早些时候，叶尔莫连科曾在一家国有铁路公司上班。他说自己“完全支持总统”周三对独立广场的清场行动，还把抗议者推倒列宁(Lenin)雕像的举动称为“粗鲁的流氓行径”。
“Our industry is heavy, it’s the railroads, the factories,” Mr. Yermolenko said. “We need Russia more than Europe.”
叶尔莫连科说，“我们的产业以重工业为主，都是些铁路和工厂。跟欧洲比起来，我们更需要俄罗斯。”
In Kiev on Thursday, Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, told reporters that Mr. Yanukovich “intends to sign the association agreement” with the European Union, which would signal his latest about-face. But analysts tended to dismiss his assurances, noting that he has made such promises before, and warned that the standoff could continue for some time.
周四，欧盟外交事务高级代表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)对记者说，亚努科维奇“有意”和欧盟签订“联系国协定”。果真如此的话，这将是他最新的一次变脸。可是，分析人士倾向于不理会他的保证。他们指出，亚努科维奇以前也曾做出类似的承诺，并且警告称，眼下的僵局还将持续一段时间。
Ever since Mr. Yanukovich backed away from the accords with Europe last month, and broke off talks with the International Monetary Fund on a loan package to stave off bankruptcy, Ukraine has been negotiating with Russia about potential economic assistance. Mr. Yanukovich is due to meet with Mr. Putin next week.
亚努科维奇于上个月放弃了和欧洲的协定，中断了和国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)为延缓破产而展开的贷款计划谈判，自那时起，乌克兰一直在和俄方进行谈判，希望获得后者的经济援助。按计划，亚努科维奇将于下周和普京见面。
But rumors that Ukraine might join the customs union have further inflamed the protesters in Kiev, and officials have denied such talks are in the works. Western diplomats who met with Mr. Yanukovich said he continues to insist that he will eventually sign the accords with Europe, something he has said since his abrupt decision not to sign them.
不过，有关乌克兰可能加入关税联盟的传言已经进一步激怒了基辅的抗议者，官员们也矢口否认官方在展开此类谈判。和亚努科维奇见过面的西方外交官说，他继续坚称，最终他将和欧洲签署协定。从他突然决定不签协定的时候开始，他一直在这么说。
In Brussels, the European Parliament issued a statement calling for the European Union to start a mediation mission aimed at “round-table talks between the government and the democratic opposition and civil society, to secure a peaceful outcome to the current crisis.”
在布鲁塞尔，欧洲议会(European Parliament)发表了一则声明，呼吁欧盟派出一支调解代表团，任务是“在政府和民主派反对党及民众之间发起圆桌会议，确保目前的危机得到和平解决”。
Antigovernment demonstrators continued their occupation of Kiev’s Independence Square, as more protesters were arriving from around the country by bus, particularly from western Ukraine. In a fenced-in section of nearby Mariinsky Park, several thousand pro-government protesters rallied under heavy police protection.
反政府示威者继续占领着基辅的独立广场，与此同时，更多抗议者乘大巴从全国各地抵达那里，尤以来自乌克兰西部的人为多。在广场附近马林斯基公园(Mariinsky Park)的一个用栅栏围起来的区域，几千名支持政府的抗议者正在大批警力的保护下举行集会。
There are few signs that the political turmoil that has gripped Kiev in recent weeks is spreading here in the Donbass region, where Mr. Yanukovich was born and served five years as governor and one term in a penal colony for assault in the 1970s while Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union.
没有什么迹象表明，基辅最近几周的政治骚乱正在顿巴斯地区这里扩散。顿巴斯是亚努科维奇的出生地，他在这里当了五年的一把手。上世纪70年代，乌克兰还属于苏联的时候，亚努科维奇还因伤人在这里的劳改营服过刑。
There are no barricades in the city center. A statue of Lenin stands unmolested in a central square.
这里的市中心没有路障。列宁塑像完好无损地屹立在中心广场上。
Aleksandr A. Lukyanchenko, the mayor of Donetsk and a member of Mr. Yanukovich’s Party of Regions, has weathered both the 2004 Orange Revolution and Mr. Yanukovich’s return to power in his 11 years in office. He laughed off statements by protest leaders and sympathizers, like the mayor of Lviv, who said local police officers would fight the federal government if it tried to occupy the city, an action that sends tens of thousands of demonstrators to Independence Square on the weekends to protest.
亚历山大·A·卢基扬琴科(Aleksandr A. Lukyanchenko)已经当了11年的顿涅茨克市长。身为亚努科维奇领导的地区党(Party of Regions)的成员，他挺过了2004年的橙色革命(Orange Revolution)，也见证了亚努科维奇重新掌权。他对抗议领袖和抗议同情者所说的话一笑置之。抗议同情者当中包括利沃夫市长，他曾经宣称，如果联邦政府试图占领该市，当地警方将与其开战，此举使得数万名示威者周末前往独立广场，进行抗议。
“They will achieve nothing with their methods,” Mr. Lukyanchenko said in an interview, addressing the protesters’ calls for Mr. Yanukovich to resign. “There will only be irreparable consequences” for Ukraine.
“他们的方法达不到任何目的，”卢基扬琴科在采访中说，“只会给乌克兰带来不可挽回的后果。”他说的是抗议者要求亚努科维奇下台的呼声。
Small protests in support of the uprising on the Maidan, as Kiev’s Independence Square is commonly called, brought in about 100 supporters, a demonstration Mr. Lukyanchenko derisively called “our little Maidan.”
基辅的独立广场通常又被称作梅丹，为支持独立广场抗议而举行的小规模抗议吸引了大约100名支持者。卢基扬琴科嘲讽地把这些抗议称作“我们的小梅丹”。
With the country’s economy stalling, opposition to the protests here has not necessarily fomented new support for Mr. Yanukovich, who has seen his numbers slipping as the country teeters on the edge of bankruptcy.
在国家经济停滞之际，本地人对抗议的反对立场并不一定会为亚努科维奇带来新的支持。随着乌克兰在破产的边缘摇摇晃晃，亚努科维奇眼看着自己的支持者不断减少。
Many viewed the clashes in Kiev as jostling between Mr. Yanukovich’s clan of politicians and ambitious opposition members trying to vault into power by co-opting student movements.
许多人认为，基辅的冲突是亚努科维奇集团的政客和野心勃勃的反对派成员之间的角力，反对派试图利用学生运动一举上台。
Tatyana Kolomychenko, 55, said that she felt sympathy for student protesters, whom she called “puppets” of the opposition, but that she did not support Mr. Yanukovich either, and had not voted in the last elections.
55岁的塔季扬娜·科洛米琴科(Tatyana Kolomychenko)说她对参加抗议的学生感到同情，称他们是反对派手里的“木偶”，但她也不支持亚努科维奇，并且没有在上一届选举中投票。
“I don’t believe in politics,” Ms. Kolomychenko said, as she took a break from shoveling snow outside her vacuum cleaner shop in the city center. “And I have taught my children not to believe in it either.”
科洛米琴科正在自己位于市中心的吸尘器商店外铲雪，她在中途休息时说，“我不相信政治，还教育自己的孩子不要相信政治。”
At the Donetsk National Technical University, where Mr. Yanukovich’s portrait hangs along with pictures of other distinguished graduates under a plaque in English reading “Honoured Doctors,” many students said they had never considered joining their contemporaries at the barricades in Independence Square.
在顿涅茨克国立技术大学(Donetsk National Technical University)，亚努科维奇的画像和其他杰出校友的画像一起悬挂在一面牌匾下面，牌匾上用英语写着“荣誉博士”。这里的许多学生都表示，自己从未想过前往独立广场，与那些守在路障旁边的学生为伍。
“If they manage to get Yanukovich out, there will be a new Yanukovich after him,” said Tigran Naltakyan, a mechanical engineering student. “There are no folk heroes in Ukrainian politics anymore.”
“如果他们果真赶走了亚努科维奇，又会上来一个新的亚努科维奇，”学机械工程的学生季格兰·纳尔塔基扬(Tigran Naltakyan)说，“乌克兰政界已经没有传奇英雄了。”
Mr. Yanukovich’s real support was among the business leaders and politicians of his native Donetsk region, Mr. Naltakyan said. “Without Donetsk, he is nobody.”
纳尔塔基扬说，真正支持亚努科维奇的是他家乡顿涅茨克地区的商业领袖和政界人士。“如果没有顿涅茨克，他啥都不是。”