MOSCOW — A wave of anti-government demonstrations rolled across Russia on Monday as thousands of people gathered in scores of cities to protest corruption and political stagnation despite vigorous attempts by authorities to thwart or ban the rallies.
莫斯科——周一，反政府示威浪潮席卷俄罗斯，成千上万的抗议者聚集在多个城市，抗议腐败和政治进程停滞，虽然当局试图极力挫败或禁止这些集会。
Police detained the architect of the national protests, Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, as he emerged from his apartment building to attend a rally that he had forced into the center of Moscow. He was sentenced to 30 days in prison. There were scattered reports of hundreds of detentions elsewhere, too.
这次全国性抗议活动的策划者、克里姆林宫的批评者阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼(Alexei Navalny)从公寓大楼走出，前往莫斯科市中心参加其强力推进的集会时，遭到警方羁押。他被判入狱30天。其他一些地方也传来了数以百计的人遭拘留的报道。
The protests were the broadest anti-government outpouring in Russia in years, with people in more cities heeding Navalny’s call than his last series of demonstrations in March.
这些抗议活动是俄罗斯多年来最广泛的反政府爆发，与3月份的上一波示威游行相比，本次有更多的城市响应了纳瓦尔尼的号召。
Organizers in more than 200 cities across Russia had filed requests to hold demonstrations Monday, trying to revive a popular opposition that had been somnolent since a violent crackdown in 2011 and 2012. Protests unfolded Monday in more than 100 cities as the sun moved westward, even in some where they had been banned outright.
俄罗斯超过200个城市的组织者提出申请，要在周一举行示威活动，他们试图恢复2011年和2012年暴力镇压之后一直保持沉默的民众反对活动。周一，随着太阳从东到西，有一百多个城市举行了抗议活动，甚至是在一些游行被完全禁止的地方。
Russian news media reported an estimated 5,000 people turned out in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, the largest crowds since demonstrations in 1991 calling for the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Protest organizers estimated 4,000 participants in the southwestern Siberian city of Omsk, and 2,000 in Irkutsk, in eastern Siberia, though the police estimates in those cities were less than half of those totals.
俄罗斯新闻媒体报道，在西伯利亚的新西伯利亚市，有5000人参加了游行，这是自从1991年呼吁苏联解体以来规模最大的一次示威游行。示威组织者估计，西伯利亚西北部城市鄂木斯克有4000人参加，西伯利亚东部的伊尔库茨克有2000人参加，尽管根据这些城市的警方估计，参加人数不到上述数字的一半。
In Moscow, Navalny set the stage for a confrontation with the police by insisting that demonstrators ignore the officially sanctioned venue and gather instead on Tverskaya Street, the main boulevard leading toward the Kremlin and Red Square.
在莫斯科，纳瓦尔尼做好了与警方对峙的准备，他坚持要求示威者无视官方批准的游行场地，而是聚集到通往克里姆林宫和红场的主要大道特维尔大街上。
After he was detained, his wife posted a picture of the incident on his Twitter account with the caption “Happy Russia Day!” — referring to the national holiday Monday. In addition, workers at his headquarters reported that their electricity and internet connection, used to transmit updates from around the country, had been severed.
在他遭拘留后，他妻子在他的Twitter帐户上张贴了一张相关图片，写道：“俄罗斯国庆快乐！”周一是国庆日。此外，他总部的工作人员表示，那里的电力和互联网连接已被切断，无法再传送全国各地的最新消息。
Initial reports from OVD.info, an independent organization that tracks arrests, said around 670 people had been detained in Moscow and 300 were arrested in St. Petersburg.
追踪逮捕信息的独立组织OVD.info发布初步报告，称大约有670人在莫斯科被羁押，300人在圣彼得堡被捕。
In Vladivostok, home to Russia’s Pacific fleet, where at least 11 protesters were detained, according to OVD-Info, the protest crowds were peaceful if wily in their efforts to avoid the riot police.
OVD-Info的消息称，在俄罗斯太平洋舰队的基地符拉迪沃斯托克，至少有11名抗议者被羁押，抗议人群努力避开防暴警察，显得巧妙又平静。
The rally broke up after riot police officers plunged into the crowd and dragged away several protesters.
防暴警察冲入人群，拖走了几个示威者之后，集会就散开了。