TOKYO — Japan on Friday promised to begin an investigation into the mysterious mutilation of hundreds of copies of “Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl” and other books related to her at public libraries across Tokyo.
东京——近来，在东京各处的公共图书馆内，数百本安妮·弗兰克(Anne Frank)所著的《安妮日记》(Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl)以及与她相关的一些图书神秘地遭到了破坏。周五，日本承诺将对此展开调查。
Local news media reports said 31 municipal libraries had found 265 copies of the diary by Frank, the young Holocaust victim, and other books vandalized, usually with several pages torn or ripped out. The reports said some libraries had taken copies of the diary off their shelves to protect them.
当地新闻媒体报道，31家市立图书馆发现，有265本包括安妮所著日记在内的书籍遭到蓄意破坏，常常是其中几页被撕毁或扯下。安妮是犹太人大屠杀(Holocaust)中一位年幼的遇难者。媒体报道称，一些图书馆为了保护书籍，已将该日记撤下书架。
Officials said they did not know the motive for the vandalism, the first cases of which were discovered earlier this month.
官员们表示，本月早些时候他们开始发现有撕书的情况，但不清楚这种破坏行为的动机。
Anti-Semitism is not common in Japan, but magazine articles and books have occasionally been written that deny the Holocaust or claim that a Jewish conspiracy was behind various historical events. One book, published in 1979, wrongly proclaimed that Enola Gay, the name of the United States B-29 bomber that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, meant “Kill the Emperor” in Yiddish. (The plane was named after the pilot’s mother.)
在日本，反犹主义并不多见，但是偶尔也会有杂志文章和书籍否认犹太人大屠杀的存在，或者声称种种历史事件背后是犹太人的阴谋操纵。一本出版于1979年的书错误地声称，那架在广岛投下原子弹的美国B-29轰炸机之所以叫艾诺拉·盖伊号(Enola Gay)，是因为这在犹太语里代表“杀死天皇”。但这架飞机实际上是以飞行员母亲的名字命名的。
On Friday, the top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, expressed disappointment at the damage, saying that the police would investigate. “It is extremely regrettable and shameful,” he told reporters.
周五，日本政府首席发言人菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)对这种破坏行为表示了失望，称警察将展开调查。“这是非常令人遗憾和羞耻的，”他对记者说。
He spoke a day after the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Los Angeles-based Jewish human rights group, issued a statement expressing “shock and deep concern” over the vandalism. “Only people imbued with bigotry and hatred would seek to destroy Anne’s historic words of courage, hope and love in the face of impending doom,” it said.
他讲话的前一天，总部位于洛杉矶的犹太人权益组织西蒙·维森塔尔中心(Simon Wiesenthal Centre)发表了一份声明，对于这种破坏行为表达了“震惊和深切的担忧”。“只有充满偏见和仇恨的人才会企图破坏安妮在面对死亡的时间里，以勇气、希望和爱写就的这些具有历史价值的言语，”声明称。
The diary, written by Frank as she and her family hid from the Nazis, was published after her death in a concentration camp at age 15. It has been widely read in Japan, as in many other countries, and is one of the best-known testimonies about the Holocaust.
这本书是在安妮与其家人躲避纳粹追捕期间写就的，其出版时间则是在她15岁时在一处集中营死去之后。在日本和许多其他国家，这本书都被广泛阅读，它是对犹太人大屠杀的一份极其重要的见证。