WASHINGTON — The day after what many had assumed would be the inauguration of the first female president, hundreds of thousands of women flooded the streets of Washington, and many more marched in cities across the country, in defiant, jubilant rallies against the man who defeated her.
华盛顿——在许多人原以为会是首位女总统就职日的第二天，数十万名女性潮水般涌上华盛顿的街道，还有更多的女性在美国各地其他城市参加了大游行，反对那个击败了她的男人。
Protesters jammed the streets near the Capitol for the main demonstration, packed so tightly at times that they could barely move; in Chicago, the size of a rally so quickly outgrew early estimates that the march that was to follow was canceled for safety.
在示威活动的主城，抗议者堵住了国会大厦附近的街道，人数之多以至于人们有时几乎无法挪动。在芝加哥，集会的规模迅速超过了原先的估计，为了安全起见，后面的游行只好取消。
In Manhattan, Fifth Avenue became a tide of signs and symbolic pink hats, while in downtown Los Angeles, shouts of “love trumps hate” echoed along a 1-mile route leading to City Hall, with many demonstrators spilling over into adjacent streets in a huge, festival-like atmosphere.
在曼哈顿，第五大道成了标语和象征性的粉红色帽子的长河。在洛杉矶市中心，“爱胜过恨”的呼声回响在通往市政厅的一英里长的路上，还有许多示威者溢出到相邻的街道上，巨大的人群处于节日般的气氛中。
The marches were the kickoff for what their leaders hope will be a sustained campaign of protest in a polarized nation, riven by an election that raised unsettling questions about U.S. values, out-of-touch elites and barriers to women’s ambitions.
这些大游行开启了它们的领导人所希望的、将在这个意见两极化的国家持续下去的抗议运动，这次让国家四分五裂的大选提出了一些关于美国价值观、不了解实情的精英，以及女性抱负所面临的障碍等令人不安的问题。
On successive days, two parallel and separate Americas were on display in virtually the same location. First there was President Donald Trump’s inauguration, his message of an ailing society he would restore to greatness aimed at the triumphant supporters who thronged Washington on Friday.
在前后两天里，两个并行但分离的美国在几乎相同的地点展示在人们面前。先是唐纳德·特朗普总统的就职典礼，他的信息是他会让一个每况愈下的社会恢复伟大光荣，这是带给周五涌入华盛顿的大获全胜的支持者的信息。
Then on Saturday, in what amounted to a counter-inauguration, the speakers, performers and marchers proclaimed allegiance to a profoundly different vision of the nation. They voiced determination to protect a wide array of rights that they believe Trump threatens and that they thought only recently were secure.
接下来的周六，在一场相当于反就职的活动中，演讲者、表演者和游行者对一个完全不同的国家愿景表示忠诚。他们表达了要保护一大批各种各样权利的决心，他们认为特朗普给这些权利带来威胁，而就在不久以前，他们还以为这些权利已得到了保障。
“Thank you for understanding that sometimes we must put our bodies where our beliefs are,” Gloria Steinem, the feminist icon and an honorary chairwoman of the march, told the throngs gathered in Washington. “Pressing ‘send’ is not enough.”
“感谢你们明白这个，有时我们必须用实际行动投身于我们的信仰，”女权运动的偶像、大游行的荣誉主席格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)对聚集在华盛顿的人群说。“只按‘发送’是不够的。”
To mobilize a progressive movement reeling from Hillary Clinton’s defeat, organizers deliberately broadened the platform beyond long-standing women’s issues such as abortion, equal pay and sexual assault to include immigrant rights, police brutality, mass incarceration, voter suppression and environmental protection.
为了把因希拉里·克林顿大选失败而受到重挫的进步运动动员起来，组织者特意扩大了活动的纲领，使其超越了如堕胎、同工同酬和性侵犯等女性长期面临的问题，把移民权利、警察暴行、大批监禁、选民压制和环境保护等问题包括了进来。
But the march’s origins were in the outrage and despair of many women after an election that placed gender in the spotlight as never before.
但是，游行的起因源于许多女性大选之后感到的愤怒和绝望，在这次大选中，性别成为前所未有的焦点。
Clinton assertively claimed the mantle of history, offering herself as the champion of women and families, and calling out her opponent for boasting of forcing himself on women in a recording that prompted a national conversation about sexual assault. In a sly allusion to the crude remarks Trump made on the tape, many marchers, women and men alike, wore pink “pussy hats” sporting cat ears.
克林顿坚定自信地宣称了历史的责任，把自己作为女性和家庭的卫士，并指责自己的对手在一段录音中炫耀他调戏女性的行为，那段录音引发了全美国关于性侵犯的对话。作为对特朗普在录影中用的粗糙语言的滑稽隐喻，许多游行者，既有女性、也有男性，都戴着粉红色的带猫耳朵的“猫帽”。
Precise crowd counts were difficult to come by, but in total, attendance at the marches across the U.S. and the world easily surpassed 1 million. In New York, they set off from a plaza near the United Nations and ended within a couple of blocks of Trump Tower, holding signs reading “Resist the Groper-in-Chief,” “Babes Against Bigots” and “Yuuuge Disaster.”
对参加游行人数很难得到精确的估计，但总的来说，在美国和世界各地参加大游行的人超过100万是轻而易举的。在纽约，游行者从联合国大厦附近的一个广场出发，在距离特朗普大厦两个街区的地方结束，她们举的标语牌上写着“抵制总摸手”（Groper-in-Chief是全军总司令[Commander-in-Chief]的变异，特朗普自吹他摸女性私密处，译注）、“年轻女性反对盲从”(Babes Against Bigots)，以及“巨大的灾难”（Yuuuge Disaster，这是特朗普的常用语，拼法用了他说“巨大”[huge]一词时的发音，译注）等字样。
In Boston, the Boston Common, a gently rolling park ridged by brownstones in the shadow of the state Capitol, morphed into a sea of pink hats Saturday morning. Music boomed around the park, the whole scene nodding to this city’s history of protest. “Revolution begins in Boston,” one sign said.
在波士顿，波士顿公共绿地这个以州议会大厦为背景、由赤褐色砂石建筑环绕的平缓起伏公园，周六上午变成了一个粉红色帽子的海洋。音乐声在公园周围响起，整个场景是对这个城市抗议历史的点赞。一个标语牌上写道，“革命在波士顿开始。”
Looking out at an admiring crowd, which contained some signs reading “Warren 2020,” Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., conjured up the image of Trump’s being sworn in the day before.
马萨诸塞州民主党参议员伊利莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)面对投来赞赏目光的人群，其中有人举着写有“沃伦2020”字样的牌子，勾起了人们对一天前特朗普就职宣誓样子的回想。
“The sight is now burned into my eyes forever,” Warren said, adding, “We will use that vision to fight harder.”
“那个场景现已永远留在我的眼里，”沃伦说，她补充道，“我们将用那个场景来激发更猛烈的斗争。”
Yet women did not protest — or vote — as a bloc. About 53 percent of white women voted for Trump, according to exit polls, and many said his demeaning comments about women mattered less to them than their belief that he had the independence, temperament and business experience to bring about change, restore well-paying jobs and protect U.S. borders.
然而，女性并不是作为一个整体来抗议或投票的。据大选投票后的民意测验，大约53％的白人女性把选票投给了特朗普，许多人说，他贬低女性的言论对她们来说并不那么重要，她们更愿意相信特朗普具有改变现状、恢复好报酬的工作机会和保护美国边界的独立性、气质和商业经验。
The marches came a day after confrontations between anti-Trump protesters and police led to more than 200 arrests in Washington. But Saturday’s demonstrations were peaceful, and counterprotests were few. In St. Paul, Minnesota, one man was arrested after marchers reported he had “sprayed irritants” into the crowd, police said.
大游行的前一天，反对特朗普的示威者与警察发生冲突，导致200多人在华盛顿被逮捕。但周六的示威是和平的，几乎没有反对游行的抗议。在明尼苏达州的圣保罗有一人被捕，警察说，那是在游行者向警方报告该人向人群“喷射刺激物”之后。
By midafternoon, the target of the protests had not said anything about the marchers, verbally or on Twitter. Although the Washington march ended within sight of the White House, and some demonstrators passed by his recently opened hotel, Trump did not cross paths with the crowd.
截至周六下午，抗议活动的对象还未在口头上或Twitter上对游行者做出任何表示。虽然华盛顿的大游行是在看得见白宫的地方结束的，一些示威者还经过了他最近开张的酒店，但特朗普并未与人群偶遇。
After attending the inauguration Friday, Clinton was not seen at the march, which had strong echoes of her campaign appearances, including some of the same celebrities, performers and slogans. She did, however, acknowledge the moment on Twitter.
克林顿在参加了周五的就职典礼后，没有在游行队伍里出现。大游行与她竞选活动的场面很相像，包括同样的一些名人、表演者和口号。但她在Twitter上确实提到了这个时刻。
“Thanks for standing, speaking & marching for our values @womensmarch,” she wrote. “Important as ever. I truly believe we’re always Stronger Together.”
“感谢你们站出来，为我们的价值发声、游行 @womensmarch，”她写道。“这比以往任何时候都重要。我真的认为我们已经‘团结起来更强大’了。”
One extended family that gathered in Washington was inspired by its 100-year-old matriarch, Sylvia Fein, who at the last minute decided that it would be too physically daunting for her to march.
参加华盛顿大游行的一个大家庭是在其100岁的女长辈西尔维亚·费恩(Sylvia Fein)的激励下来的，费恩在最后一刻决定，参加游行对她来说太困难了。
“I’ve been voting for president since FDR and I don’t remember ever feeling this way about a person,” said Fein, a retired accountant and painter in Philadelphia.
费恩是费城的一名退休会计师和绘画爱好者，她说，“自从FDR（富兰克林·罗斯福的首字母）起，我就从没错过一次总统大选，我不记得曾对一个人有过这样的感觉。”
Her grandniece, Mikhael Tara Garver, 37, who traveled to the march from Brooklyn, recalled how her family had reacted after the election: “We were all calling my great-aunts, because we all knew how important Hillary was to them and how important surviving to see that moment was for them.”
她外侄孙女，家住布鲁克林的37岁的米克哈尔·塔拉·加尔弗(Mikhael Tara Garver)回忆起了其家人在大选之后的反应：“我们都给姨姑姥姥们打了电话，因为我们知道希拉里对她们来说有多重要，对她们来说，能活着看到那一刻有多重要。”
Another family came from Baltimore, sisters, daughters and in-laws alike. “We have to get away from fear,” said Lureen Grace Wiggins, 49. Her daughter, Eden, 17, was exhilarated by the size of the crowd: “When you’re out here and people see you, they know you care.”
另一个大家庭来自巴尔的摩市，她们中有姐妹、女儿和妯娌。“我们必须远离恐惧，”49岁的露琳恩·格拉丝·威金斯(Lureen Grace Wiggins)说。人群的规模让威金斯的女儿、17岁的伊甸(Eden)感到兴奋：“当你出现在这里，让人们看到你时，他们知道你关心这事儿。”