SARCELLES, France — From the immigrant enclaves of the Parisian suburbs to the drizzly bureaucratic city of Brussels to the industrial heartland of Germany, Europe's old demon returned this summer. “Death to the Jews!” shouted protesters at pro-Palestinian rallies in Belgium and France. “Gas the Jews!” yelled marchers at a similar protest in Germany.
法国萨尔塞勒——从巴黎郊区的移民窟、到阴雨绵绵的官僚城市布鲁塞尔、到德国的工业重地，欧洲的老恶魔今年夏天死灰复燃。在比利时和法国的支持巴勒斯坦集会上，示威者大喊，“去死吧犹太人！”在德国的类似活动中，游行者高呼，“把犹太人送进毒气室！”
The ugly threats were surpassed by uglier violence. Four people were killed in May at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. A Jewish-owned pharmacy in this Paris suburb was destroyed in July by youths protesting Israel's military campaign in Gaza. A synagogue in Wuppertal, Germany, was attacked with firebombs. A Swedish Jew was beaten with iron pipes. The list goes on.
这些丑恶的威胁被更丑恶的暴力超越。今年5月，有四人在布鲁塞尔的犹太博物馆被枪杀。在巴黎的这个郊区，年轻人在7月份抗议以色列在加沙的军事行动时，捣毁了一家犹太人所有的药房。德国伍珀塔尔的一个犹太教堂遭到燃烧弹的袭击。一个瑞典犹太人被人用铁管殴打。这样的例子不胜枚举。
The scattered attacks have raised alarm about how Europe is changing and whether it remains a safe place for Jews. An increasing number of Jews, if still relatively modest in total, is now migrating to Israel. Others describe “no go” zones in Muslim districts of many European cities where Jews dare not travel.
各地的袭击事件敲响了警钟，令人担忧欧洲正在发生怎样的变化，犹太人在这里是否还有安全。越来越多的犹太人如今正在移民以色列，虽然他们的总数仍相对较少。其他人则表示，在欧洲许多城市的穆斯林居住地，有犹太人不敢前往的“禁行”区。
But there is also concern about what some see as an insidious “softer” anti-Jewish bias, which they fear is creeping into the European mainstream and undermining the postwar consensus to root out anti-Semitism. Now the question is whether a subtle societal shift is occurring that has made anti-Jewish remarks or behavior more acceptable.
但也存在着在一些人看来是隐伏的针对犹太人“软”偏见的担忧，他们担心这种偏见正不知不觉地进入欧洲主流社会，破坏着战后形成的铲除排犹主义的共识。现在的问题是，社会是否正在发生一种微妙的转变，让反犹太人的言论或行为更容易被接受。
“The fear is that now things are blatantly being said openly, and no one is batting an eyelid,” said Jessica Frommer, 36, a secular Jew who works for a nonprofit organization in Brussels. “Modern Europe is based on stopping what happened in the second World War. And now 70 years later, people standing near the European Parliament are shouting, `Death to Jews!”'
“令人担心的是，这些话现在能在公开场合公然说出，而人们对其不动声色，”36岁的杰西卡·弗罗默(Jessica Frommer)说，她是在布鲁塞尔一个非盈利性组织工作的世俗犹太人。“现代欧洲是建立在防止二战中的事情再次发生的基础之上的。如今70年过去了，站在欧洲议会附近的人们在高喊，‘去死吧犹太人！’”
This is not the Europe of 1938. French leaders have strongly condemned the violence. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in September led a rally against anti-Semitism in Berlin at which she told Germans, “It is our national and civic duty to fight anti-Semitism.”
这不是1938年的欧洲。法国领导人已对暴力行为表示了强烈谴责。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)9月份在柏林领导了一个反对排犹主义的集会，她在会上对德国人说，“反对排犹主义是我们国家和公民的义务。”
Europe has seen protests and outbursts of anti-Semitism whenever the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has erupted, and some analysts say this summer's anger is a cyclical episode that, like others, will fade away. Some note that the number of reported anti-Semitic incidents this year in France, for instance, is actually well below some years in the 2000s.
每当巴以冲突爆发时，欧洲都会出现抗议活动以及排犹情绪的爆发，一些分析人士说，今年夏天的愤怒表达是这个周期性发作的一种，与以往的发作一样会慢慢退去。比如有人指出，法国今年报道的国内排犹主义事件的数量，实际上远低于2000年至2010年间发生的数量。
Yet as European support for the Palestinian cause and criticism of Israel have hardened, many Jews describe a blurring of distinctions between being anti-Israel and being anti-Jew.
然而，随着欧洲加强了对巴勒斯坦事业的支持、以及对以色列的批评，许多犹太人表示，反对以色列与反对犹太人的区别正在变得模糊。
With Europe still shaking from a populist backlash against fiscal austerity, some Jews speak of feeling politically isolated, without an ideological home. Many left-wing political parties are anti-Israel. Many right-wing parties, some with anti-Semitic origins, are extremist and virulently anti-immigrant. And many Jews who have traditionally voted with the Socialist Party in France and Belgium worry that those parties are weak and becoming more dependent on fast-growing Muslim voting blocs.
欧洲刚刚经历了对其财政紧缩政策的民粹主义反弹，一些犹太人说他们有些政治上孤立、意识形态上无家可归的感觉。许多左翼政党反对以色列。许多右翼政党，其中一些以排犹发源，由极端和恶毒的反移民人士组成。许多传统上投票支持法国和比利时的社会党的犹太人担心，这些党的力量薄弱，正越来越依赖于快速增长的穆斯林投票集团。
Even among those inclined to condemn racism in any form, fighting anti-Semitism is no longer seen as a priority, with Jews often perceived as privileged compared to Muslims and other minorities confronted with discrimination.
即使在那些倾向于谴责任何形式的种族主义的人中，反对排犹主义已不被当成首要任务，因为与面临种族歧视的穆斯林和其他少数民族相比，犹太人往往被视为属于特权阶层。
Many younger Muslims often seem alienated in Europe. Struggling to find work and frustrated by their lack of acceptance, a small but vocal group of them has become inflamed by the politics of the Middle East, especially the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
许多年轻的穆斯林似乎常常与欧洲格格不入。他们困难地寻找工作，经受不被接受的挫折，其中敢于发声的少数人已经被中东地区的政治、尤其是巴以冲突所激怒。
European officials are deeply concerned that radical Islam, nurtured in the Middle East, could take root in Europe. Mehdi Nemmouche, a French Muslim arrested in connection with the killings at the Jewish Museum in Brussels, fought as a jihadist in Syria. A French journalist who was held captive in Syria until April said Nemmouche had been one of his torturers.
欧洲官员对激进的伊斯兰教深感关切，中东滋生的激进伊斯兰教也可能在欧洲扎根。因涉嫌在布鲁塞尔犹太博物馆杀人而被逮捕的法国穆斯林麦赫迪·奈穆什(Mehdi Nemmouche)曾在叙利亚当圣战战士。一个曾被关押在叙利亚、直到今年4月份才获释的法国记者说，奈穆什是折磨过他的人之一。
“We are a microcosm of the Middle East,” said Philip Carmel, European policy director for the European Jewish Congress. “The Middle East is being imported into Europe.”
“我们是中东的一个缩影，”欧洲犹太人大会欧洲政策主任菲利普·卡梅尔(Philip Carmel)说。“中东正被输入到欧洲。”
Visits to some of the flash points of the summer violence revealed a picture of what Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France has called a “new anti-Semitism.” In Sarcelles, the Paris suburb where pro-Palestinian protests spiraled into riots, the alienation of France's immigrants and minorities lies just below the surface. In Brussels, the headquarters of the European Union, some secular Jews described a changing atmosphere and questioned whether it was time to leave.
走访一些今年夏天爆发过暴力事件的地点，可以看到那种被法国总理曼努埃尔·瓦尔斯称为“新排犹主义”的东西。在巴黎郊外的萨尔塞勒，亲巴勒斯坦的示威曾升级为骚乱，这里的移民和少数民族对法国格格不入的情绪随时可能迸发出来。在欧盟总部所在地布鲁塞尔，一些世俗犹太人描述了一种不断变化的气氛，并考虑是不是到了该离开这里的时候。
And in Wuppertal, a city proud of its commitment to religious and ethnic diversity, the attempted firebombing of a synagogue exposed underlying tensions that became even clearer in September when, unexpectedly, a group of Muslim men patrolled a neighborhood wearing makeshift uniforms that said “Shariah Police.”
而在伍珀塔尔，这个为自己承诺的宗教和种族多样性而自豪的城市，向犹太教堂投掷燃烧弹的企图背后暴露出来的紧张关系，似乎在九月份变得更加明显：一群在邻里巡逻的穆斯林男子穿的临时制服上印有“伊斯兰教警察”的字样。
The French Melting Pot
法国大熔炉
On the afternoon of July 20, a siege mentality gripped Little Jerusalem, the Jewish commercial district in Sarcelles. A crowd of young Jewish men had gathered at the synagogue as a pro-Palestinian protest was held a few blocks away. France's Interior Ministry had tried to ban the protest, which spun into a riot. Cars were burning. Young men were throwing rocks as the police fired tear gas. A Jewish-owned pharmacy was set on fire.
7月20日下午，萨尔塞勒的犹太商业区小耶路撒冷笼罩在一种被围攻的气氛之下。一群年轻犹太男子聚集在犹太教堂，亲巴勒斯坦的示威就在几个街区之外进行着。法国内政部曾试图禁止这次后来演变为一场骚乱的抗议活动。汽车被烧毁。年轻男子向警察扔石头，警察同时发射了催泪瓦斯。犹太人所有的一家药房被人放了火。
“We were all concentrated here to defend the synagogue,” said Levi Cohen Solal, 21, who joined the human cordon outside the synagogue. “Everybody was scared.”
“我们都聚集在这里保卫犹太教堂，”21岁的列维·科恩·索拉尔(Levi Cohen Solal)说，他参加了教堂外用人墙组成的警戒线。“每个人都很害怕。”
Blocked by the police, the rioters never reached the synagogue, but Sarcelles became a televised symbol of France's new anti-Semitism — a depiction many local residents did not recognize. A working-class suburb where generations of immigrants are packed into government housing, Sarcelles is a melting pot of religions and ethnicities, where many people speak of a largely peaceful coexistence.
由于警方的封锁，暴徒从未能来到犹太教堂，但萨尔塞勒却在电视上成了法国新排犹主义的象征，许多当地居民并不认为这种刻画与当地的情况相符。萨尔塞勒是一个聚集着大批工薪阶层的郊区，在这里，几代移民居住在政府提供的住房里，这是一个宗教和种族的大熔炉，许多人谈起这里时说的是主要是和平共处。
To many residents, the demonstration, which was organized by outsiders on social media, was an indictment not of Sarcelles, but of France. Youth unemployment is soaring, especially in immigrant havens like Sarcelles, and many French-born children and grandchildren of immigrants have become alienated from French society.
对于许多居民来说，由外人在社交媒体上组织的示威，不是对萨尔塞勒的控诉，而是对整个法国的控诉。法国的青年失业率不断飙升，尤其是在像萨尔塞勒这样的移民聚居点，许多在法国出生的移民子女和孙子女对法国社会感到格格不入。
“They have a real hatred against the state,” said Bassi Konaté, a city social worker, who added that many of the protesters came from poorer districts near Sarcelles. “A big proportion of these people feel neglected. A lot of these people don't know anything about Gaza. But they want to confront the police.”
“他们对国家充满了真实的仇恨，”城市社会工作者巴斯·科纳特(Bassi Konaté)说，他补充说，许多抗议者来自萨尔塞勒附近的穷人区。“这些人中有很大一部分感到被社会忽视。他们中的很多人对加沙一点也不了解。但他们想对抗警察。”
In Brussels, Heightened Alert
布鲁塞尔高度戒备
Music rose from the center of Brussels on Sept. 21, with joggers and bicyclists moving freely down city streets as the seat of the European Union held its annual no-car day. It had the giddy air of a street fair, if less so for the city's Jewish organizations, which the police had placed under heightened security since two recent incidents.
9月21日的布鲁塞尔市中心上空播放着音乐，跑步的人和骑自行车的人在城市的街道上自由往来，这是欧盟总部所在地一年一度的无车日。到处充满了赶集似地令人眼花缭乱的气氛，不过对这座城市的犹太组织来说，气氛并没有那么轻松，自从最近发生了两起事件以来，警察已对这些组织加强了保护。
The first happened the previous Sunday, Sept. 14, which marked the European Day of Jewish Culture. As people gathered to dedicate a plaque at a Holocaust memorial, youths hurled stones and bottles until the police arrived. Three days later, a fire erupted on an upper floor of a synagogue in the city's Anderlecht district; the authorities are investigating the incident as arson.
第一起发生在9月14日，上个周日，那是欧洲的犹太文化日。随着人们聚集在大屠杀纪念馆参加一个纪念牌的揭幕仪式，有青少年不断向聚集场所投掷石块和瓶子，直到警察赶到。三天后，在该市的安德莱赫特区一座犹太教堂的楼上发生了火灾，当局正在把这起事件作为人为纵火来调查。