LONDON — Members of the European political elite expressed alarm on Monday over the strong showing in European Parliament elections by nationalist and anti-immigrant parties skeptical about European integration, a development described by the French prime minister as an “earthquake.”
伦敦——周一，欧洲的一些政治精英对民族主义政党和质疑欧洲一体化的反移民政党在欧洲议会(European Parliament)选举中的强劲表现表示了警惕，法国总理称这一动向为一次“地震”。
In France, Britain and elsewhere, anti-immigrant parties opposed to the influence of the European Union emerged in the lead. In France, the National Front won 26 percent of the vote to defeat both the governing Socialists and the Union for a Popular Movement, the center-right party of former President Nicolas Sarkozy. In Britain, the triumph of the U.K. Independence Party, or UKIP, which won 28 percent of the vote, represented the first time since 1910 that a nationwide vote had not been won by either the Conservatives or Labour.
在法国、英国和其他一些国家，抵制欧盟(European Union)影响力的反移民政党都取得了领先地位。在法国，国民阵线(European Union)赢得26%的选票，击败了执政的社会党(Socialist Party)和法国前总统尼古拉·萨科奇(Nicolas Sarkozy)领导的中右翼政党人民运动联盟(Union for a Popular Movement)。在英国，简称UKIP的英国独立党(Independence Party)以28%的得票率赢得胜利，使得保守党(Conservative Party)或工党(Labour Party)自1910年以来首次未能在全国性投票中取胜。
“The people’s army of UKIP have spoken tonight and delivered just about the most extraordinary result that has been seen in British politics for 100 years,” said Nigel Farage, UKIP’s leader.
UKIP的领导人奈杰尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)说，“今晚，UKIP的选民大军发出了自己的声音，交出了英国政坛百年以来最非凡的选举答卷。”
Official results released overnight showed that populist parties strongly opposed to the European Union also trounced establishment forces in Denmark and Greece and did well in Austria and Sweden. The results, a stark challenge to champions of greater European integration, left mainstream political leaders stunned. The radical left-wing Syriza coalition in Greece beat the party of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, while Golden Dawn, a neo-Nazi outfit that the Greek authorities have tried in vain to outlaw, also picked up seats, bringing Holocaust-deniers and belligerent xenophobes into the European Parliament.
昨晚公布的官方统计结果显示，强烈反对欧盟的民粹主义政党在丹麦和希腊也击败了执政党，并在奥地利和瑞典取得了不错的战绩。这样的结果是对拥护欧洲加强一体化的群体的严酷挑战，使得主流政治领导人错愕不已。在希腊，左翼激进联盟(Syriza)打败了以总理安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)为首的政党，而信奉新纳粹主义的金色黎明党(Golden Dawn)也获得了几个席位。希腊当局曾试图将金色黎明党宣布为非法党派，但未成功，如此一来，大屠杀的否认者和好战的仇外者也进入了欧洲议会。
With the political landscape redrawn across Europe, some politicians, notably Nick Clegg, the British deputy prime minister and leader of the Liberal Democrats, the junior coalition partner, faced calls from their own party members to quit. The Liberal Democrats finished fifth in Britain and lost nearly all their seats at the European Parliament.
随着欧洲政治版图被重新划分，一些政治人物面临着被所属政党党员逼迫辞职的呼声，其中最引人注目的是英国副首相尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)，他是执政联盟中的小党自由民主党(Liberal Democracy Party)的领袖。自由民主党在欧洲议会英国分区的选举中位列第五，几乎丢掉了其在欧洲议会的所有席位。
In Spain, the two main parties failed for the first time to get a combined 50 percent of the votes. Such was the upheaval that Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, the leader of the Socialist Party, announced on Monday that he would step down after failing to capitalize on Spain’s economic woes and record unemployment to beat the governing Popular Party.
在西班牙，主要的两个政党第一次未能取得合计50%的得票率。这一异变如此之大，以至于社会党(Socialist Party)领袖阿尔弗雷多·佩雷斯·鲁瓦尔卡巴(Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba)在周一宣布辞职，原因是他未能利用西班牙的经济困境和创纪录的失业率击败执政的人民党(Popular Party)。
The Socialists apparently lost votes to other left-leaning parties, as well as to new groups led by Podemos, or We Can, a movement that was formed only a few months ago to oppose austerity cuts and demand fairer wage distribution.
社会党似乎把选票输给了其他一些左倾政党，以及以“我们可以党”(Podemos)为首的一些新团体。“我们可以党”是一个几个月前才刚刚组建的政党，纲领是反对财政紧缩和削减支出，要求实现更公平的工资分配。
Traditional parties sought to depict the ballot as a protest vote inspired by deep alienation among voters repelled by what they consider to be out-of-touch political elites at home and an arrogant European Union bureaucracy spreading its influence with no democratic mandate.
传统政党试图将这种结果描绘为部分选民的深度疏离引发的抗议性投票，这些选民反感他们所谓的高高在上的国内精英，也反感骄傲自大的欧盟官僚机构，认为欧盟正在没有民主授权的情况下四处扩大影响力。
In Paris, the victory by the National Front, led by Marine Le Pen, prompted Manuel Valls, the French prime minister, to acknowledge: “It’s an earthquake.”
在巴黎，马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)领导的国民阵线获得胜利，促使法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)承认，“这是一场地震。”
“We are in a crisis of confidence,” Mr. Valls added. “Our country has for a long time been in an identity crisis, a crisis about France’s place in Europe, Europe’s place in our country.”
“我们遭遇了一场信任危机，”瓦尔斯说，“长期以来，我们的国家一直面临认同危机，有关法国在欧洲的地位及欧洲在我国的地位的认同危机。”
President François Hollande of France called an emergency meeting of senior ministers after his Socialist Party finished a remote third. The rise of the right had been widely forecast, but it nonetheless sent shock waves. In Germany, Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier expressed dismay over the French result and the fact that the extremist, anti-immigrant National Democratic Party of Germany, or N.P.D., which won 1 percent of the vote, had secured a seat.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)领导的社会党以较大差距名列第三，奥朗德随即召集高级部长开了一次紧急会议。右翼政党的崛起是许多人早已预见的事情，但却仍然造成了冲击波。在德国，外交部长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)表示大失所望，一是因为法国的选举结果，二是因为德国的反移民极端党派国家民主党（National Democratic Party，简称NPD）以1%的得票率赢得了一个席位。
“In some countries it won’t be as bad as had been feared, for example in the Netherlands, but France’s National Front is a severe signal, and it horrifies me that the N.P.D. from Germany will be represented in the Parliament,” Mr. Steinmeier said, according to Agence France-Presse.
据法新社(Agence France-Presse)报道，施泰因迈尔表示，“在一些国家，情况并不像人们担心的那么糟糕，比如荷兰，但法国国民阵线获胜是一个严峻的信号，NPD将获得议会席位的事实也让我十分震惊。”
In the German vote, traditional parties were clear winners, but a new Euroskeptic party, the Alternative for Germany, also took 7 percent of the vote, news reports said.
在德国的选举中，传统政党是一目了然的赢家，但新闻报道称，质疑欧洲一体化的新政党德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)也获得了7%的投票。
José Manuel Barroso, the departing president of the European Commission, the executive branch of the 28-nation European Union, issued a statement on Monday urging a “truly democratic debate” to meet the concerns of “those who voted in protest or did not vote.”
即将离任的欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)于周一发表声明，呼吁举行“真正民主的辩论”，以便应对“那些投抗议票或没有投票的选民”的担忧。欧盟委员会是28国集团欧盟的执行机构。