SAN FRANCISCO — On a characteristically foggy evening here, a group of predominantly single venture capitalists, tech executives, hedge-fund managers and philanthropists gathered for a cocktail party in a penultimate-floor suite at the St. Regis apartment complex.
旧金山——在一个典型的旧金山雾天里，一群大多单身的风险投资人、科技企业高管、对冲基金经理和慈善人士傍晚时分齐聚位于瑞吉(St. Regis)公寓大楼倒数第二层的套房，参加一场鸡尾酒会。
As guests ate oysters, baby lamb chops and perhaps the world’s smallest cheeseburgers, they were pitched a multiday, intellectually rigorous singles mixer to be held in January 2014 on Necker Island, Richard Branson’s 74-acre Caribbean paradise, “curated” by Kelleher International, a long-running, high-end matchmaking service that is targeting Silicon Valley with particular vigor.
在场的宾客一边享用着牡蛎、小羊排，以及堪称世界上最小的奶酪汉堡，一边听人推销一场高智商单身配对活动。这场活动将持续数日，举办时间是2014年1月份，地点是内克岛。该岛占地74英亩，为理查德·布兰森(Richard Branson)私有，是加勒比海上的度假天堂。活动“策划”方凯莱赫国际(Kelleher International)是一家老牌高端婚介服务公司，尤其关注的是硅谷。
Wearing an Alexander McQueen dress and towering Valentino heels as she sold the idea was the company’s 44-year-old chief executive, Amber Kelleher-Andrews. “If we can get interesting single people and match them according to their taste, their likes, their interests and their passions, and get these 30 people on the island at a time, I can’t even imagine what would happen,” she told the group. “Whether it’s two girls that become best friends or two guys that become business partners together, or it’s a couple that ends up falling in love, I’ve seen it at TED, I saw it at Sundance and I know it can happen at Necker.”
兜售这一计划的是该公司首席执行官安贝·凯莱赫-安德鲁斯(Amber Kelleher-Andrews)。她今年44岁，身穿亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)出品的礼服，脚蹬华伦天奴(Valentino)的高跟鞋。“如果我们能找到有趣的单身人士并依据他们的品味、喜好、兴趣和嗜好相互配对，然后让这30人同一时间出现在岛上，我真想象不出会发生什么事情，”她向众人说道。“或许两位姑娘可以成为挚友，两位男士会成为商业伙伴，又或者是一对男女陷入爱河。我在TED大会上和圣丹斯电影节上都看到过这种事，我相信这在内克岛上同样可以发生。”
The cost of the trip per person is still being determined, but the base fee is $45,000 (some of which is deductible because net proceeds go to Virgin Unite, Mr. Branson’s charitable foundation), not including the cost of flights and optional spa treatments. It is the luxurious but perhaps logical next step for a new breed of philanthropically minded, well-heeled singles who are already tramping around the knowledge enrichment circuit.
此次旅行每人需支付的费用仍未敲定，但起步价为4.5万美元（其中部分可享受税收减免，因为活动净收益将捐给布兰森旗下的慈善机构维珍联合基金会[Virgin Unite]），还不包括航班和可选的休闲健身项目。对于早已踏上知识增益之旅的新一代具有慈善意识的单身贵族来说，这次旅行虽然奢侈，却或许也算是合乎逻辑的下一步。
Arjun Gupta is an affable, divorced venture capitalist who lives in Aspen, Colo., and had offered up his San Francisco pied-à-terre for the evening. He acknowledged that at events like TED conferences, and the Aspen Ideas Festival, both of which he’s been attending for years, some participants seek to nourish not just their minds, but their hearts as well.
阿尔琼·古普塔(Arjun Gupta)是名风险投资人，他彬彬有礼，已经离异，住在科罗拉多州阿斯彭。他将其位于旧金山的临时寓所提供给当晚的活动使用。多年来一直参加TED大会和阿斯彭思想节(Aspen Ideas Festival)的古普塔承认，一些参会者去这类活动的目的不仅是想滋养自己的头脑，还想温暖他们的心灵。
“I don’t think it’s a primary objective,” said Mr. Gupta, 52, “but as with anything that’s interesting and stimulating, it is a large segment of singles. Invariably you do find people hooking up together.” He is not yet a client of Ms. Kelleher-Andrews. “She’s trying to convince me,” he said with a smile.
“我认为这并不是首要目标，”现年52岁的古普塔说，“但是，正如其他有趣而刺激的事情一样，那里有一大帮单身男女。你肯定会见到有人会走到一起。”他现在还不是凯莱赫-安德鲁斯的客户。“她正试着说服我呢，”他笑着说道。
One Kelleher client of seven months, the chief executive of a rapidly growing online start-up who asked to be identified by only his first name, John, to avoid professional embarrassment, said he viewed the evening as “an audition” of sorts. Regardless of whether he passed muster, John added, he was just happy to be mingling among such an elite group.
约翰(John)7个月前成为了凯莱赫的客户。他是一家快速崛起的网络创业公司的首席执行官，为避免职业上的尴尬只愿透露名字。他说自己将当晚视为某种“试镜”。不管自己能否通过，他都很高兴能有机会接触到这样的精英群体。
“I wasn’t sure what to expect tonight, but bare minimum, it’s a very eclectic mix of amazing people,” he said. “And dude, I gave a business card to Cheryl Tiegs!”
“我不知道今晚会发生什么，但最起码，这里的确是各色了不起的人物都有，”他说。“朋友，我还给了谢丽尔·提格丝(Cheryl Tiegs)一张名片呢！”
Ms. Tiegs,  greeting a steady stream of sports-coat-and-jeans-clad male admirers, said that though she is single, she was on hand only as a pal of Ms. Kelleher-Andrews. “Trust me, I have enough men calling,” she said.
提格丝正和不断涌来的身着休闲外套和牛仔裤的男性爱慕者打招呼。她说自己虽然仍是单身，但只是作为凯莱赫-安德鲁斯的朋友出席。“相信我，给我打电话的男士已经够多了，”她说。
Supermodels aside, in an age in which millions delegate their love lives to the algorithms of Match.com or Okcupid.com, it seems there are still singles who prefer an old-school matchmaker. According to Ms. Kelleher-Andrews, a former actress on “Baywatch” and “Melrose Place” who has been married to Nico Andrews, a champion jujitsu instructor, for 13 years, Kelleher International has 16 offices around the world and receives roughly 1,000 inquiries per month. Of those, she said, about 700 are women, roughly 10 of whom are accepted as clients.
撇开超模不论，在这个时代，成百上千万人将自己的爱情生活委托给Match.com和Okcupid.com这类婚介网站的运算法则。现在看来，仍有一些单身人士宁愿选择旧式的媒人。凯莱赫-安德鲁斯曾是一名演员，参演过《海滩救护队》(Baywatch)和《飞越情海》(Melrose Place)，13年前嫁给了柔道冠军教练尼科·安德鲁斯(Nico Andrews)。据她描述，凯莱赫国际在全球有16处办公室，每月接到1000次左右的问询。这其中，大约700次来自女性，只有10名左右可以成为公司客户。
A fee of $15,000 buys a year’s worth of unlimited matches in one city. Once a match is made, Ms. Kelleher-Andrews provides contact information and then conducts a detailed postdate follow-up with both parties. Another $5,000 will add a second city to the search. And $150,000 grants access to the CEO Club, which entails an international search, as well as the personal ministrations of Ms. Kelleher-Andrews; her mother, Jill Kelleher, who founded the company in 1986; or Sunya Andrews, 36, one of Ms. Kelleher-Andrews’s seven nieces, who’s been with the company for more than eight years.
1.5万美元年费买来的是在一座城市不限次数的配对机会。一旦配对成功，凯莱赫-安德鲁斯会提供联系方式，并对双方进行详细的日后跟进。额外支付5000美元则能在搜寻范围内添加一座城市。支付15万美元就可以加入CEO俱乐部，在全球范围内搜索并享受凯莱赫-安德鲁斯、其母吉尔·凯莱赫(Jill Kelleher)或其侄女苏妮娅·安德鲁斯(Sunya Andrews)提供的私人服务。吉尔·凯莱赫于1986年建立了该公司。今年36岁的苏妮娅·安德鲁斯是凯莱赫-安德鲁斯七个侄女中的一个，已经在公司工作了8年多。
“We have a great guy that just joined who’s on his yacht in Capri right now,” Ms. Kelleher-Andrews said. “But when he comes back into town, every single office and all the reps in New York and Denver, or wherever, they’re all going to be aware of him so they’re going to choose the top girls in each of these cities.”
“我们有一位不错的男士刚刚加入进来，他目前在卡普里岛玩自己的游艇，” 凯莱赫-安德鲁斯说。“他一回来，纽约、丹佛还有其他城市的每一间办公室、所有的牵线人，都会注意到他。他们会选出每个城市里最出色的姑娘。”
There are additional “success fees” for a match that results in either marriage or a long-term relationship, usually defined as one year, though this is agreed upon by the client at the outset of the contract. “It is really an incentive for the matchmakers, and could be anything from a monetary bonus or something else, like an all-expense-paid trip to the wedding,” Ms. Kelleher-Andrews said, adding that the company has about an 85 percent success rate, thanks to what she called a highly selective application process.
此外，如果配对的两人最终成婚，或维持长期情侣关系，还会收取“成功费”。所谓“长期”通常指一年，不过这项费用会在签订合同时取得共识。凯莱赫-安德鲁斯说，“这对撮合者来说其实是个鼓励，可以是经济回报，也可以是其他东西，比如邀请参加婚礼并负担全部费用。”她又说，公司的成功率约有85%，用她的话说，这是因为她有一个很挑剔的申请程序。
“A lot of older women we don’t take — and they’re fabulous, but it’s too hard to match them,” Jill Kelleher said the morning after the party, at the company’s headquarters in Corte Madera, Calif., which was filled with impeccably groomed young female matchmakers (many of whom have marriage- and family-therapy degrees or a background in life coaching, Sunya Andrews said). “We need to find a system to bring in the men.”
酒会后的第二天早上，吉尔·凯莱赫(Jill Kelleher)在公司位于加州科尔特马德拉的总部说，“有很多年纪较大的女性我们不会接受——她们都很出众，但是太难帮她们撮合了。”这家公司满是打扮得无可挑剔的年轻红娘（苏妮娅·安德鲁斯说，她们当中许多人都有婚姻和家庭辅导的学位，或者是有生活指导方面的工作背景）。“我们需要找到一套系统，把男士拉进来。”
Like any good networker, Ms. Kelleher-Andrews refers to both clients and prospects as “friends.” She said her database includes more than 30,000 people, including Monsanto executives and members of the du Pont family. “If I know someone like Cheryl Tiegs — and she’s a friend of mine — if I have an amazing guy join the CEO Club and he seems like the type I would introduce to some of my friends, I would introduce them in a heartbeat,” she said.
就像任何一个经营人脉的行家一样，凯莱赫-安德鲁斯称呼当前和潜在的客户时，都管他们叫作“朋友”。她表示，她的数据库里包括3万多人的信息，包括孟山都公司(Monsanto)的高管，以及杜邦(du Pont)家族的成员。她说，“如果我认识一个像谢丽尔·提格丝这样的人，而且她是我的朋友，这时再有一个很棒的人加入CEO俱乐部，而且看来他是我会介绍给朋友们的那种类型，我眨眼之间就会介绍他们认识。”
Since Jill Kelleher started the firm with a $2,500 check from her first client, a lawyer who answered an ad she had placed in San Francisco magazine, the company has focused on higher-end clients, and it was early in targeting the growing male-dominated demographic of Internet moguls, both women said.
吉尔·凯莱赫起家靠的是她的第一个客户支付的2500美元支票。那名客户是个律师，回应了她在《旧金山》杂志上投放的广告。两位女士都说，公司成立以来始终专注于高端客户，而且很早就瞄准了互联网巨头这一越来越大、而且由男性主导的群体。
“Mom basically existed off the Silicon Valley people when it was just being born,” Ms. Kelleher-Andrews said. “People who owned the big companies that were being built, from Sun to Microsoft to Oracle, the big people in those companies can’t put themselves in a photo book on a dating service. Most of the employees are the ones looking in those photo books.”
“硅谷刚成型的时候，我妈妈就开始靠这帮人过活了，”凯莱赫-安德鲁斯说。“从太阳(Sun)、到微软(Microsoft)，再到甲骨文(Oracle)，那些超大公司的老板，还有那些公司里的大人物，可不能把自己放在约会网站的图册里。他们的雇员通常会去浏览那些图册。”
Asked about the paradox of freshly minted tech millionaires relying on old-fashioned methodology to find a partner, Jill Kelleher expressed some regret about her career path. “I rebelled,” she said. “I’m the dinosaur that didn’t like computers, and we probably would be retired right now if we’d started Match.com.”
当被问到，新鲜出炉的科技企业富翁却需要依赖老派的方法寻找伴侣，这是否有些矛盾时，吉尔·凯莱赫对自己的事业表达了些许惋惜。“我逆了潮流，”她说，“我是个老家伙，不喜欢电脑。要是我们当初创立了Match.com，或许现在就已经退休了。”