Five years and eleven months have now passed since the U.S. economy entered recession. Officially, that recession ended in the middle of 2009, but nobody would argue that we’ve had anything like a full recovery. Official unemployment remains high, and it would be much higher if so many people hadn’t dropped out of the labor force. Long-term unemployment — the number of people who have been out of work for six months or more — is four times what it was before the recession.
自美国经济陷入衰退以来，五年零十一个月已经过去了。按照官方的说法，这场衰退在2009年年中就已结束，但没人敢说我们经历了全面复苏。官方统计的失业率居高不下，而且如果不是许多人退出了劳动力市场，失业率还要高得多。长期失业人数，即失业时间长达半年或以上的人数，是衰退前的四倍。
These dry numbers translate into millions of human tragedies — homes lost, careers destroyed, young people who can’t get their lives started. And many people have pleaded all along for policies that put job creation front and center. Their pleas have, however, been drowned out by the voices of conventional prudence. We can’t spend more money on jobs, say these voices, because that would mean more debt. We can’t even hire unemployed workers and put idle savings to work building roads, tunnels, schools. Never mind the short run, we have to think about the future!
这些枯燥的数字意味着数以百万计的个人悲剧：痛失居所、事业被毁、年轻人无法开启自己的生活。许多人一直呼吁出台以创造就业为宗旨的政策。然而，他们的呼吁被传统谨慎的声音淹没了。这些声音说，我们不能在就业问题上花更多钱，因为那将意味着我们背上更多债务。我们甚至不能雇佣失业人员，并把闲置的积蓄利用起来，修建公路、隧道和学校。别管短期问题，我们必须从长远着想！
The bitter irony, then, is that it turns out that by failing to address unemployment, we have, in fact, been sacrificing the future, too. What passes these days for sound policy is in fact a form of economic self-mutilation, which will cripple America for many years to come. Or so say researchers from the Federal Reserve, and I’m sorry to say that I believe them.
颇具苦涩的讽刺意味的是，事实证明，因为未能解决失业问题，我们实际上一直在牺牲未来。如今被当做稳健政策的，实际上是一种经济自残，它会在未来多年里削弱美国。这是美联储(Federal Reserve)研究人员得出的结论，很遗憾地说，我相信他们。
I’m actually writing this from the big research conference held each year by the International Monetary Fund. The theme of this year’s shindig is the causes and consequences of economic crises, and the presentations range in subject from the good (Latin America’s surprising stability in recent years) to the bad (the ongoing crisis in Europe). It’s pretty clear, however, that the blockbuster paper of the conference will be one that focuses on the truly ugly: the evidence that by tolerating high unemployment we have inflicted huge damage on our long-run prospects.
实际上，在写这篇文章时，我正在参加国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)每年主办的大型研究会议。今年大会的主题是经济危机的原因和后果，报告的话题有好的（比如拉美近年来惊人的稳定），也有不好的（欧洲仍在持续的危机）。但很明显，本次大会的重量级报告将聚焦真正丑陋的东西：因容忍高失业率而使美国长期前景遭受巨大损害的证据。
How so? According to the paper (with the unassuming title “Aggregate Supply in the United States: Recent Developments and Implications for the Conduct of Monetary Policy”), our seemingly endless slump has done long-term damage through multiple channels. The long-term unemployed eventually come to be seen as unemployable; business investment lags thanks to weak sales; new businesses don’t get started; and existing businesses skimp on research and development.
为什么会是这样？据这份报告（其平实的标题是《美国的总供给：近期的发展和对货币政策运行的影响》[Aggregate Supply in the United States: Recent Developments and Implications for the Conduct of Monetary Policy]），我们这场看似没有尽头的低迷已通过多个渠道造成了长期损害。那些长期失业者最终会被认为不能雇佣；销售疲软导致企业延后投资；新企业不能启动；现有企业在研发上投入不足。
What’s more, the authors — one of whom is the Federal Reserve Board’s director of research and statistics, so we’re not talking about obscure academics — put a number to these effects, and it’s terrifying. They suggest that economic weakness has already reduced America’s economic potential by around 7 percent, which means that it makes us poorer to the tune of more than $1 trillion a year. And we’re not talking about just one year’s losses, we’re talking about long-term damage: $1 trillion a year for multiple years.
这还不算，报告的作者——其中一人是美联储研究和统计主任，所以说这些人绝非鲜为人知的学者——量化了这些影响，结果很吓人。他们提出，经济疲软已导致美国经济潜力下降了大约7%，这意味着我们一年的损失超过1万亿美元（约合6.1万亿元人民币）。而且我们说的不只是一年的损失，而是长期损失：每年损失1万亿美元，持续多年。
That estimate is the end product of some complex data-crunching, and you can quibble with the details. Hey, maybe we’re only losing $800 billion a year. But the evidence is overwhelming that by failing to respond effectively to mass unemployment — by not even making unemployment a major policy priority — we’ve done ourselves immense long-term damage.
这个估算值是通过一些复杂的数据运算得到的最终结果，你可以质疑相关细节。你可以说，嗨，或许我们每年只损失了8000亿美元。但是压倒性的证据证明，因为未能有效应对大规模失业，甚至没把失业问题列为一大政策重点，我们已经给自己造成了巨大的长期损害。
And it is, as I said, a bitter irony, because one main reason we’ve done so little about unemployment is the preaching of deficit scolds, who have wrapped themselves in the mantle of long-run responsibility — which they have managed to get identified in the public mind almost entirely with holding down government debt.
正如我所说，这是一个令人苦涩的讽刺，因为我们之所以针对失业问题采取的行动那么少，主要原因之一就是被赤字抨击者的说教蒙骗了，他们把自己包裹在长期责任的斗篷里，成功地让公众以为，长期责任的全部含义就是控制住政府债务。
This never made sense even in its own terms. As some of us have tried to explain, debt, while it can pose problems, doesn’t make the nation poorer, because it’s money we owe to ourselves. Anyone who talks about how we’re borrowing from our children just hasn’t done the math.
这根本就讲不通，甚至按照它自己的逻辑也是如此。正如我们当中有些人想要解释的，债务虽然可能会构成问题，但不会让国家变穷，因为那是我们欠自己的钱。说我们向子孙后代借钱的那些人，没有做好这道数学题。
True, debt can indirectly make us poorer if deficits drive up interest rates and thereby discourage productive investment. But that hasn’t been happening. Instead, investment is low because of the economy’s weakness. And one of the main things keeping the economy weak is the depressing effect of cutbacks in public spending — especially, by the way, cuts in public investment — all justified in the name of protecting the future from the wildly exaggerated threat of excessive debt.
没错，如果赤字推高利率，从而阻碍生产性投资的话，债务可能间接地让我们变穷。但是那种情况并没有发生。相反，正是经济疲软导致投资水平偏低。而导致经济疲软的主要因素之一就是削减公共支出（特别是削减公共投资）所产生的抑制效果——这一切的理由就是保护我们的未来，使其免受一种（被严重夸大的）过度负债的威​​胁。
Is there any chance of reversing this damage? The Fed researchers are pessimistic, and, once again, I fear that they’re probably right. America will probably spend decades paying for the mistaken priorities of the past few years.
这种损害还有可能逆转吗？美联储的研究人员对此感到悲观，我觉得也是如此。美国很可能会用几十年的时间为过去几年犯下的错误买单。
It’s really a terrible story: a tale of self-inflicted harm, made all the worse because it was done in the name of responsibility. And the damage continues as we speak.
这真是一个可怕的故事：一个自我伤害的故事，由于它是在责任的名义下进行的，因此搞得更糟。此时此刻，这种损害仍在继续。