WE are beginning to witness a paradox at the heart of capitalism, one that has propelled it to greatness but is now threatening its future: The inherent dynamism of competitive markets is bringing costs so far down that many goods and services are becoming nearly free, abundant, and no longer subject to market forces. While economists have always welcomed a reduction in marginal cost, they never anticipated the possibility of a technological revolution that might bring those costs to near zero.
我们正在开始见证一个资本主义的核心悖论，这个悖论曾经推动资本主义发展到巅峰，但现在却威胁着它的未来。这个悖论就是：竞争市场固有的活力让成本大幅下降，以至于许多商品和服务几乎变成免费的，而且非常丰富，不再受制于市场力量。尽管经济学家永远支持降低边际成本，但他们从未料到，一场技术革命可能会让这些成本降到接近零的水平。
The first inkling of the paradox came in 1999 when Napster, the music service, developed a network enabling millions of people to share music without paying the producers and artists, wreaking havoc on the music industry. Similar phenomena went on to severely disrupt the newspaper and book publishing industries. Consumers began sharing their own information and entertainment, via videos, audio and text, nearly free, bypassing the traditional markets altogether.
1999年，这一悖论初现端倪。当时，音乐服务提供商Napster开发了一个能让数百万人不向制作人和艺术家付一分钱，便可共享音乐的网络，重创音乐产业。接着，类似现象严重打击了报业和图书出版业。消费者开始通过视频、音频和文本共享他们自己的信息和娱乐内容，几乎不用花钱，完全绕过了传统市场。
The huge reduction in marginal cost shook those industries and is now beginning to reshape energy, manufacturing and education. Although the fixed costs of solar and wind technology are somewhat pricey, the cost of capturing each unit of energy beyond that is low. This phenomenon has even penetrated the manufacturing sector. Thousands of hobbyists are already making their own products using 3-D printers, open-source software and recycled plastic as feedstock, at near zero marginal cost. Meanwhile, more than six million students are enrolled in free massive open online courses, the content of which is distributed at near zero marginal cost.
边际成本的大幅降低重创了这些行业，而且现在正开始重塑能源业、制造业和教育行业。尽管太阳能和风能技术的固定成本不菲，但除此之外获得每单位能量的成本较低。这种现象甚至渗透进了制造业。数以千计的业余爱好者已经在用3-D打印机、开源软件和作为原料的再生塑料自己制造产品了，他们的边际成本几乎为零。与此同时，超过600万学生参加了免费的大型在线公开课程，这些课程内容发布的边际成本几乎为零。
Industry watchers acknowledge the creeping reality of a zero-marginal-cost economy, but argue that free products and services will entice a sufficient number of consumers to purchase higher-end goods and specialized services, ensuring large enough profit margins to allow the capitalist market to continue to grow. But the number of people willing to pay for additional premium goods and services is limited.
行业观察人士承认，零边际成本经济的现实令人毛骨悚然，但称免费产品和服务会诱惑足够多的消费者购买更高端的产品和专业化服务，确保利润率大到足以让资本主义市场继续增长。但愿意为额外的优质商品和服务付钱的消费者人数有限。
Now the phenomenon is about to affect the whole economy. A formidable new technology infrastructure — the Internet of Things — is emerging with the potential to push much of economic life to near zero marginal cost over the course of the next two decades. This new technology platform is beginning to connect everything and everyone. Today more than 11 billion sensors are attached to natural resources, production lines, the electricity grid, logistics networks and recycling flows, and implanted in homes, offices, stores and vehicles, feeding big data into the Internet of Things. By 2020, it is projected that at least 50 billion sensors will connect to it.
如今，这种现象即将影响整个经济。一种可怕的新技术基础设施——物联网——正在出现，可能会在未来二十年的时间里，把经济生活中很多领域的边际成本降低到接近零的水平。这种新的技术平台正开始把所有事情、所有人联系在一起。目前，超过110亿个感应器被和自然资源、生产线、电网、物流网络和回收利用流程绑定在一起，放置在住宅、办公室、商店和车辆中，为物联网提供大数据。到2020年，预计至少会有500亿个感应器和物联网相连。
People can connect to the network and use big data, analytics and algorithms to accelerate efficiency and lower the marginal cost of producing and sharing a wide range of products and services to near zero, just as they now do with information goods. For example, 37 million buildings in the United States have been equipped with meters and sensors connected to the Internet of Things, providing real-time information on the usage and changing price of electricity on the transmission grid. This will eventually allow households and businesses that are generating and storing green electricity on-site from their solar and wind installations to program software to take them off the electricity grid when the price spikes so they can power their facilities with their own green electricity and share surplus with neighbors at near zero marginal cost.
人们可以连上物联网，利用大数据、分析方法和算法提高效率，将生产和共享诸多产品和服务的边际成本降到接近零的水平，就像他们眼下对信息产品的处理方法一样。比如，美国有3700万栋大楼安装了与物联网相连的仪表和感应器，提供有关输电网中用电量和价格变化的实时信息。这最终会让用太阳能和风能装置进行绿色发电并当场存储的家庭和企业来为软件编程，在电价上涨时脱离电网，使用自己的绿色电能，并以近乎零的边际成本与邻居共享多余的电。
Cisco forecasts that by 2022, the private sector productivity gains wrought by the Internet of Things will exceed $14 trillion. A General Electric study estimates that productivity advances from the Internet of Things could affect half the global economy by 2025.
思科(Cisco)预计，到2022年，物联网给私营领域带来的生产力收益将超过14万亿美元（约合87万亿元人民币）。通用电气(General Electric)的一份研究估计，到2025年，物联网带来的生产力进步会影响全球经济的一半。
THE unresolved question is, how will this economy of the future function when millions of people can make and share goods and services nearly free? The answer lies in the civil society, which consists of nonprofit organizations that attend to the things in life we make and share as a community. In dollar terms, the world of nonprofits is a powerful force. Nonprofit revenues grew at a robust rate of 41 percent — after adjusting for inflation — from 2000 to 2010, more than doubling the growth of gross domestic product, which increased by 16.4 percent during the same period. In 2012, the nonprofit sector in the United States accounted for 5.5 percent of G.D.P.
尚未解决的问题是，如果数以百万计的人都能近乎免费地制造和分享产品及服务，那么这种未来经济将如何发挥作用？答案在于公民社会。组成公民社会的非营利性组织会负责我们在生活中作为一个共同体生产和共享的东西。按美元计算，非营利性组织是一股强大的势力。从2000年到2010年，非营利性组织的收入增幅强劲，高达41%——经过通胀调整——是同期国内生产总值增幅16.4%的两倍多。2012年，美国的非营利领域贡献了国内生产总值的5.5%。
What makes the social commons more relevant today is that we are constructing an Internet of Things infrastructure that optimizes collaboration, universal access and inclusion, all of which are critical to the creation of social capital and the ushering in of a sharing economy. The Internet of Things is a game-changing platform that enables an emerging collaborative commons to flourish alongside the capitalist market.
今天，让社会公地(commons)更有意义的是，我们正在建设一个物联网基础设施，它能优化协作、普遍接入和覆盖范围，所有这些都对社会资本的创造，以及共享经济的开启至关重要。物联网是一个能改变游戏规则的平台，能让新兴的协作公地与资本主义市场一起繁荣。
This collaborative rather than capitalistic approach is about shared access rather than private ownership. For example, 1.7 million people globally are members of car-sharing services. A recent survey found that the number of vehicles owned by car-sharing participants decreased by half after joining the service, with members preferring access over ownership. Millions of people are using social media sites, redistribution networks, rentals and cooperatives to share not only cars but also homes, clothes, tools, toys and other items at low or near zero marginal cost. The sharing economy had projected revenues of $3.5 billion in 2013.
这种协作性而非资本主义的方式关乎共享接入，而非私人所有制。比如，全球有170万人是汽车共享服务的用户。最近一项调查发现，加入该服务后，汽车共享服务用户拥有的车辆数减少了一半，他们更愿意使用汽车，而不是拥有它。数以百万计的人正在利用社交网站、再分配网络、租赁机构和合作机构，以很低或接近零的边际成本共享汽车、房屋、衣物、工具、玩具和其他物品。2013年，共享经济预计的收入为35亿美元。
Nowhere is the zero marginal cost phenomenon having more impact than the labor market, where workerless factories and offices, virtual retailing and automated logistics and transport networks are becoming more prevalent. Not surprisingly, the new employment opportunities lie in the collaborative commons in fields that tend to be nonprofit and strengthen social infrastructure — education, health care, aiding the poor, environmental restoration, child care and care for the elderly, the promotion of the arts and recreation. In the United States, the number of nonprofit organizations grew by approximately 25 percent between 2001 and 2011, from 1.3 million to 1.6 million, compared with profit-making enterprises, which grew by a mere one-half of 1 percent. In the United States, Canada and Britain, employment in the nonprofit sector currently exceeds 10 percent of the work force.
受零边际成本现象影响最大的莫过于劳动力市场。在这个市场上，不见员工身影的工厂和办公室、虚拟零售以及自动化物流和运输网络正变得更加普遍。无怪乎新的工作机会都存在一些倾向于不以营利为目的，且能增强社会基础设施的协作公地领域——教育、卫生保健、扶贫、环境修复、儿童护理、老年人护理、弘扬艺术以及娱乐。在美国，从2001到2011年，非营利性组织从130万个增加到了160万个，增幅接近25%，而营利性企业的数量只增加了0.5%。在美国、加拿大和英国，目前非营利领域的从业人员在劳动力中所占的比例超过10%。