PARIS — About 350 police officers in Ankara, the Turkish capital, were removed from their posts overnight, Turkish news outlets reported on Tuesday, the largest single purge of the police force since a corruption investigation plunged the government into crisis last month.
巴黎——土耳其新闻机构周二报道称，在土耳其首都安卡拉，约有350名警察在一夜之间被免了职，这是自政府于上月陷入反腐调查危机以来，土耳其规模最大的一次警力清洗行动。
Analysts in Turkey saw the dismissals as part of a continuing effort by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government to marginalize those it believes are driving the investigation. The government has already dismissed more than a dozen high-ranking police officials, prompting accusations of interference in the judicial process.
土耳其分析人士认为，此次免职事件属于总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)发起的一场持续行动，目的是把政府心目中那些推动调查的势力边缘化。政府已经解雇了20多名高级警官，促使外界发出了政府干预司法程序的指责。
The intervention in the ranks of law enforcement for what appear to be political motives, analysts said, underlines Mr. Erdogan’s encroaching authoritarianism after his nearly decade in power as well as his sense of panic ahead of pivotal local elections in March.
分析人士说，对执法队伍的干预似乎是出于政治动机，突显了埃尔多安在当政近十年之后日益强化的威权主义作风，以及他在今年3月的关键性地方选举之前感受到的恐慌。
Once a darling of the West committed to linking Turkey’s future to the European Union, Mr. Erdogan has since sought to fashion Turkey as a regional power in the Middle East, while the European Union’s influence in Turkey has waned.
埃尔多安一度是西方的宠儿，致力于把土耳其的未来和欧盟(European Union)联系在一起。后来，埃尔多安想方设法地要把土耳其打造成中东地区的强国，与此同时，欧盟在土耳其的影响力却在逐渐减弱。
“This is a panic attack by a government acting in haste to prevent further corruption probes,” Kadri Gursel, a columnist for Milliyet, a daily Turkish newspaper, said in an interview. “By law, the government has no jurisdiction to remove judges or prosecutors, so it is cracking down on the police force, which falls under its authority.”
土耳其日报《民族报》(Milliyet)专栏作家卡德里·古尔塞尔(Kadri Gursel)在一次采访中说，“这是一次惊慌失措的袭击，是政府手忙脚乱搞出的行动，目的是制止进一步的反腐调查。按照法律，政府无权免除法官或检察官的职务，所以它就打压在它管辖之下的警察队伍。”
The reshuffle affected at least 80 directors and other senior officers in the intelligence, organized crime, fiscal crime and cybercrime units of Ankara’s police force. Among those reassigned was Mahmut Azmaz, who led the antiriot police division that critics accused of using excessive force during antigovernment protests in June.
此次“大换血”至少波及了安卡拉警方情报部门、有组织犯罪部门、财务犯罪部门和网络犯罪部门的80名警督和其他高级警官。遭到调岗的警官包括主管防暴警察队伍的马哈茂德·阿兹马兹(Mahmut Azmaz)，批评人士指责他在去年6月的反政府抗议期间过度使用警力。
The removed officers were reassigned to traffic police departments and district police stations, and about 250 replacement officers, mostly from outside Ankara, have been appointed to take their place, the broadcaster NTV reported.
NTV电视台称，被免职的警察被调到了交警部门和地区警局，大约250名警察奉命顶替了他们的职位，其中的大部分人来自安卡拉之外。
The corruption inquiry, focused on cabinet ministers’ sons, municipal workers and a major construction tycoon with links to Mr. Erdogan, has already prompted the resignation of three cabinet ministers and spurred a cabinet reshuffle. At the center of the inquiry are allegations that officials accepted bribes to bend zoning rules.
此次腐败调查以一些内阁部长的儿子、市政雇员以及一名与埃尔多安有关联的建筑业大亨为焦点，已导致三名内阁部长辞职，迫使内阁进行重组。调查的核心是有官员涉嫌收受贿赂，放宽土地规划规定。
The investigation, the subject of daily reports in Turkish newspapers, has captured the public imagination in a country fascinated by real or imagined conspiracies. Turks have been riveted by lurid details and murky clues, like photographs of piles of cash in the bedroom of one minister’s home and reports that the chief executive of a state-owned bank had $4.5 million in cash stored in shoe boxes.
此次调查得到了土耳其各家报纸的逐日报道。在这个对真实或想象之中的阴谋着迷的国家，调查引发了公众的猜测。土耳其人痴迷于耸人听闻的细节和模糊不清的线索，比如某个部长卧室里成堆现金的照片，或是关于某国有银行首席执行官在鞋盒里藏了450万美元（约合2700万元人民币）现金的报道。
Mr. Erdogan’s government has condemned the inquiry as a politically motivated plot against it by a “criminal gang” within the state, and Mr. Erdogan himself has warned that those seeking to ensnare him will fail.
埃尔多安政府谴责此次调查是国内“犯罪团伙”出于政治动机而发起的阴谋，埃尔多安自己也警告称，那些希望把他卷进去的人不会得逞。
Government allies have attributed the investigation, fairly or not, to Fethullah Gulen, a reclusive and powerful Muslim preacher who lives in Pennsylvania. Mr. Gulen has millions of followers, including powerful sympathizers within Turkey’s police and judiciary. Once an ally of Mr. Erdogan’s, Mr. Gulen appears to have had a recent falling-out with the prime minister that analysts say is reverberating in Turkish politics.
无论公平与否，政府的盟友已将此次调查归咎于隐居在宾夕法尼亚州的穆斯林神职人员费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)。居伦影响力很大，拥有数以百万计的追随者，包括土耳其警界和司法界的一些权势人物。居伦曾是埃尔多安的盟友，最近似乎与总理闹翻了。分析人士称，两人之间的冲突正在摇撼土耳其政坛。
Observers have suggested that the inquiry was undertaken in retaliation for a government decision to close university preparatory schools, where the Gulen movement has recruited many of its followers. Mr. Gulen’s sympathizers have begun a huge campaign on social networks like Twitter to protest the closing of the schools.
观察人士称，此次调查是对政府决定关闭大学预科学校的报复，居伦的组织在这些学校里招募了许多追随者。居伦的支持者已在Twitter等社交网络上展开了一场声势浩大的运动，抗议关闭这些学校。
Mr. Gulen’s followers deny accusations that his adherents control state institutions. They say that his sympathizers have risen in the ranks of the police and the judiciary on the strength of their qualifications and talents.
居伦的追随者否认了居伦的信徒控制着国家机构的说法。他们表示，居伦的支持者是凭借自己的资历和才能在警界和司法界获得晋升的。