James Garner, the wry and handsome leading man who slid seamlessly between television and the movies but was best known as the amiable gambler Bret Maverick in the 1950s western “Maverick” and the cranky sleuth Jim Rockford in the 1970s series “The Rockford Files,” died on Saturday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86.
詹姆斯·加纳(James Garner)是一位充满幽默感、英俊潇洒的男主角，游刃有余地在影视之间转换，但他最著名的角色，还要算是在20世纪50年代西部片风格电视剧《赌侠马华力》(Maverick)中饰演的亲切可爱的赌徒布莱特·马华力(Bret Maverick)，以及70年代电视剧《回头是岸》(The Rockford Files)中饰演的古怪侦探吉姆·洛克福特(Jim Rockford)。他于周六晚上在洛杉矶家中逝世，享年86岁。
His publicist, Jennifer Allen, said he died of natural causes.
负责其公关事务的詹妮弗·艾伦(Jennifer Allen)说他是自然死亡。
He was a genuine star but as an actor something of a paradox: a lantern-jawed, brawny athlete whose physical appeal was both enhanced and undercut by a disarming wit. He appeared in more than 50 films, many of them dramas — but, as he established in one of his notable early performances, as a battle-shy naval officer in “The Americanization of Emily” (1964) and had shown before that in “Maverick” — he was most at home as an iconoclast, a flawed or unlikely hero.
加纳是真正的影星，但作为演员，他身上有某种自相矛盾的东西：他有着突出的下巴和肌肉发达的运动员身材，能令人消除敌意的机智既加强又削弱了他的肉体魅力。他出演过50多部电影，其中大部分是情节剧。在他的著名早期作品之一，1964年的《艾米莉的美国化》(The Americanization of Emily)中，他饰演一个怯阵的海军军官，这为他奠定了形象——最令他感到自如的还是那种打破传统者，有缺点或者不太靠谱的英雄，这在《赌侠马华力》之前就已经确立。
An understated comic actor, he was especially adept at conveying life’s tiny bedevilments. One of his most memorable roles was as a perpetually flummoxed pitchman for Polaroid cameras in the late 1970s and early 1980s, in droll commercials in which he played a vexed husband and Mariette Hartley played his needling wife. They were so persuasive that Ms. Hartley had a shirt printed with the declaration “I am not Mrs. James Garner.”
他是个不动声色的喜剧演员，特别擅长传达生活中细微的着魔时刻。他最令人难忘的角色之一是20世纪70年代末到80年代初一个总是慌慌张张的宝丽来摄像机推销员，还有在滑稽的广告中扮演烦恼的丈夫，玛丽特·哈利(Mariette Hartley)扮演他尖刻的妻子。这两个角色非常有说服力，以至于哈特女士有一件衬衫，上面印着：“我不是詹姆斯·加纳的夫人。”
His one Academy Award nomination was for the 1985 romantic comedy “Murphy’s Romance,” in which he played a small-town druggist who woos the new-in-town divorced mom (Sally Field) with a mixture of self-reliance, grouchy charm and lack of sympathy for fools.
1985年，他因在浪漫喜剧《墨菲罗曼史》(Murphy’s Romance)中的角色而获得奥斯卡提名，那是一个小镇药剂师，向刚来到镇上的离婚母亲（莎莉·菲尔德[Sally Field]饰）求爱，他性格独立，爱发牢骚，对愚笨的人缺乏同情。
Even Rockford, a semi-tough ex-con (he had served five years on a bum rap for armed robbery) who lived in a beat-up trailer in a Malibu beach parking lot, drove a Pontiac Firebird and could handle himself in a fight (though he probably took more punches than he gave), was exasperated most of the time by one thing or another: his money problems, the penchant of his father (Noah Beery Jr.) for getting into trouble or getting in the way, the hustles of his con-artist pal Angel (Stuart Margolin), his dicey relationship with the local police.
洛克福特以前是个骗子，性格里有一半恶棍的成分，曾经因为被控持械抢劫坐过五年冤狱，他住在马里布海滩停车场一个破旧的拖车里，开着庞蒂亚克火鸟车，爱打架（虽然可能挨打比打人的时候多），他大部分时间里都在为各种事情而生气：财务问题、父亲（小诺亚·比里[Noah Beery Jr.]饰）喜欢惹麻烦或者捣乱、他的骗子伙伴安格尔（Angel，斯图尔特·马格林[Stuart Margolin]）的诈骗行为，他和当地警方之间岌岌可危的关系。
“Maverick” had been in part a sendup of the conventional western drama, and “The Rockford Files” similarly made fun of the standard television detective, the man’s man who upholds law and order and has everything under control. A sucker for a pretty girl and with a distinctly ’70s fashion sense — he favored loud houndstooth jackets — Rockford was perpetually wandering into threatening situations in which he ended up pursued by criminal goons or corrupt cops. He tried, mostly successfully, to steer clear of using guns; instead, a bit of a con artist himself, he relied on impersonations and other ruses — and high-speed driving skills.
《赌侠马华力》在某种程度上是对传统西部片的反讽，而《回头是岸》也是拿标准的电视剧侦探形象开玩笑——那种男人中的男人，捍卫法律与秩序，一切事情都在他的掌控之下。洛克福特迷恋漂亮姑娘，有明显的70年代时尚感——他最喜欢鲜艳的犬牙花呢外套——他一直都在凶险的境地中徘徊，被暴徒犯罪分子或腐败堕落的警察追捕。他尽量避免开枪，而是使用自己骗子艺术家的才能，依靠扮演他人与其他诡计，以及高速开车的技巧——在大部分情况下都能成功。
Every episode of the show, which ran from 1974 to 1980 and more often than not involved at least one car chase and Rockford’s getting beaten up a time or two, began with a distinctive theme song featuring a synthesizer and a blues harmonica and a message coming in on a newfangled gadget — Rockford’s telephone answering machine — that underscored his unheroic existence: “Jim, this is Norma at the market. It bounced. Do you want us to tear it up, send it back or put it with the others?”
这部剧于1974年至1980年上映，每一集都至少有一场飙车戏，洛克福特也得挨一两次打，剧集开头的主题歌非常与众不同，使用了合成器效果和布鲁斯口琴，还有一段从新奇的小东西（洛克福特的电话应答机）里传出来的留言——这段话更加强调出他不是什么英雄：“吉姆，我是诺玛，现在在市场。它在跳动。你希望我们把它切开，送回去还是和其他东西放在一起？”
In his 2011 autobiography, “The Garner Files,” written with Jon Winokur, Mr. Garner confessed to having a live-and-let-live attitude with the caveat that when he was pushed, he shoved back. What distinguished his performance as Rockford was how well that more-put-upon-than-macho persona came across. Rockford’s reactions — startled, nonplused and annoyed being his specialties — appeared native to him.
在他2011年与琼恩·维诺克尔(Jon Winokur)合著的自传《加纳档案》(The Garner Files)中，加纳承认，自己有着息事宁人的态度，但人若犯我，我必犯人。他饰演的洛克福特与众不同的一点，正是他那种遭人欺负多于大男子主义的性格。洛克福特对待事物的反应——大吃一惊、大惑不解与愤愤不平成了他的特长——仿佛他天生如此。
His naturalness led John J. O’Connor, writing in The New York Times, to liken Mr. Garner to Gary Cooper and James Stewart. And like those two actors, Mr. Garner usually got the girl.
他身上这种自然天成令《纽约时报》撰稿人约翰·J·奥康纳(John J. O’Connor)把他和贾利·库珀(Gary Cooper)和詹姆斯·斯图尔特(James Stewart)相提并论，和这两个演员一样，加纳也常常抱得美人归。
Mr. Garner came to acting late, and by accident. On his own after the age of 14 and a bit of a drifter, he had been working an endless series of jobs: telephone installer, oil field roughneck, chauffeur, dishwasher, janitor, lifeguard, grocery clerk, salesman and, fatefully, gas station attendant. While pumping gas in Los Angeles, he met a young man named Paul Gregory, who was working nearby as a soda jerk but wanted to be an agent.
加纳很晚才从事表演行业，而且是出于意外。14岁以后，他就得自己谋生，几乎是个流浪者，做过很多工作：电话安装员、石油钻工、司机、洗盘工、门卫、救生员、杂货店店员和推销员，后来，在宿命的指引下，他当上了加油站侍者。在洛杉矶给客人加油时，他遇到一个名叫保罗·格里高利(Paul Gregory)的年轻人，他在附近卖冷饮，但是想当经纪人。
Years later, after Mr. Garner had served in the Army during the Korean War — he was wounded in action twice, earning two Purple Hearts — he was working as a carpet layer in Los Angeles for a business run by his father. One afternoon he was driving on La Cienega Boulevard and saw a sign: Paul Gregory & Associates. Just then a car pulled out of a space in front of the building, and Mr. Garner, on a whim, pulled in. He was 25.
几年后，加纳在朝鲜战争期间入伍服役，他在战斗中两次受伤，获得两个紫心勋章。退役后他替父亲的公司在洛杉矶给人铺地毯。一天下午，开车驶过拉辛尼加大道时，他看到一块标志牌“保罗·格里高利与合作伙伴”。正在这个时候，一辆车子驶离这栋建筑门口，加纳一时兴起，把自己的车开进车位停了下来。那年他25岁。
Mr. Gregory, by then an agent and a theatrical producer, hired him for a nonspeaking part in his production of Herman Wouk’s “The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial,” which starred Henry Fonda, John Hodiak and Lloyd Nolan. It opened in Santa Barbara and toured the country before going to Broadway, where it opened in January 1954 and ran for 415 performances. Mr. Garner said he learned to act from running lines with the stars and watching them perform, especially Fonda, another good-looking actor with a sly streak.
格里高利当时是经纪人兼舞台剧制作人，他雇用了加纳，让他在自己制作的赫曼·沃克(Herman Wouk)的戏剧《凯恩号哗变》(The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial)中饰演一个没有台词的角色，该剧由亨利·方达(Henry Fonda)、约翰·霍迪亚克(John Hodiak)和劳埃德·诺兰(Lloyd Nolan)主演。首演是在圣塔芭芭拉，之后在全国巡演，最后于1954年1月回到百老汇，上演415场。加纳说，和明星对台词，看他们表演时，他学会了表演，特别是亨利·方达，他也是一个有着狡黠性格的英俊演员。
“I swiped practically all my acting style from him,” he once said.
“我的表演方式几乎全是从他那里偷学来的，”他曾说。
James Scott Bumgarner was born in Norman, Okla., on April 7, 1928. His paternal grandfather had participated in the Oklahoma land rush of 1889 and was later shot to death by the son of a widow with whom he’d been having an affair. His maternal grandfather was a full-blooded Cherokee. (Mr. Garner would later name his production company Cherokee Productions.)
加纳原名詹姆斯·斯科特·巴姆加纳(James Scott Bumgarner)，于1928年4月7日出生于俄克拉荷马州诺曼市。他的祖父曾参与1889年的俄克拉荷马州土地哄抢热，后来同一位寡妇有染，被寡妇的儿子开枪打死。他的外祖父是纯正的印第安切罗基人（加纳后来把自己的制片公司命名为切罗基制片公司）。
His first home was the back of a small store that his father, Weldon, known as Bill, ran in the nearby hamlet of Denver. His mother, Mildred, died when he was 4. When he was 7, the store burned down and his father left James and his two older brothers to be raised by relatives; when his father remarried, the family reunited, but James’s stepmother was abusive, he said in his memoir, and after a violent episode at home, he left.
他的第一个家是在丹佛附近的小村庄，父亲威尔登（Weldon，绰号比尔）开的一家小商店后面。他的母亲米尔德莱德(Mildred)在他四岁那年去世。他七岁那年，商店被烧毁，父亲把詹姆斯和两个哥哥交给亲人抚养；父亲再婚后，一家人重聚了，但加纳在自传中写道，继母虐待他们。在一次暴力事件之后，他离开了家。
He worked in Oklahoma, Texas and Los Angeles, where his father finally resettled. He went briefly to Hollywood High School but returned to Norman, where he played football and basketball, to finish. In 1950, when the Korean War broke out, he was drafted.
他曾在俄克拉荷马、德克萨斯和洛杉矶工作，后来他的父亲也在洛杉矶定居。他曾经短暂地在好莱坞中学读书，但最后还是回到诺曼打橄榄球和篮球，直到念完高中。20世纪50年代，朝鲜战争爆发后，他应征入伍。
Mr. Garner’s first Hollywood break came when he met Richard L. Bare, a director of the television western “Cheyenne,” who cast him in a small part. That and other bit roles led to a contract with Warner Bros., which featured him in several movies — including “Sayonara” (1957), starring Marlon Brando and based on James Michener’s novel set in Japan about interracial romance — and sliced the first syllable from his last name.
加纳第一次在好莱坞出演角色是在遇到理查德·L·贝尔(Richard L. Bare)之后，贝尔曾导演西部片风格电视剧《夏安族人》(Cheyenne)，加纳在其中饰演了一个小角色。这个角色与其他小角色为加纳赢得一纸与华纳兄弟公司的合同，公司安排他在一系列电影中亮相，包括1957年由马龙·白兰度(Marlon Brando)主演的电影《樱花恋》(Sayonara)，这是根据詹姆斯·米切纳(James Michener)的小说改编的，是一个发生在日本的跨国恋故事。公司还把他的姓由“巴姆加纳”改成了“加纳”。
His first lead role was in “Darby’s Rangers” (1958) as the World War II hero William Darby, a part he was given after Charlton Heston walked off the set in a dispute with the studio over money. At about the same time he was cast as the womanizing gambler Bret Maverick, the role that made him a star.
他第一次担任主角是在1958年的《达比游击队》(Darby’s Rangers)中饰演“二战”英雄威廉·达比(William Darby)，原本的主演查尔顿·赫斯顿(Charlton Heston)因为片酬与制片公司发生争执，退出该片，他才得到这个角色。与此同时，他得到机会饰演好色的赌徒布莱特·马华力，这个角色使他成了明星。
Alone among westerns of the 1950s, “Maverick,” which made its debut in 1957, was about an antihero. He didn’t much care for horses or guns, and he was motivated by something much less grand than law and order: money. But you rooted for him because he was on the right side of moral issues, he had a natural affinity for the little guy being pushed by the bully, and he was more fun than anyone else.
《赌侠马华力》于1957年首播，和当时的众多西部片不同，它的主角是个反英雄。他不怎么喜欢骏马和枪支，动机也不是法律和秩序之类宏大的东西，而是金钱。但他处在道德问题中正确的一方，所以你会支持他，他对那些被暴徒欺凌的小人物有一种天然的亲近感，而且比其他人都有趣。
“If you look at Maverick and Rockford, they’re pretty much the same guy,” Mr. Garner wrote. “One is a gambler and the other a detective, but their attitudes are identical.”
“马华力和洛克福特其实是很相似的人，”加纳写道，“一个是赌徒，一个是侦探，但他们的态度是一模一样的。”
In a Maverick-like (or Rockford-like) move, Mr. Garner left the series in 1960 after winning a breach-of-contract suit against Warner Bros. over its refusal to pay him during a writers’ strike. He did not return to series television for a decade.
1960年，加纳控告华纳兄弟公司在编剧罢工期间拒付他报酬，官司获胜后，他以马华力式的风格（或者说洛克福特式的风格）离开了这部连续剧。之后十年间他都没有出演过电视剧。
He found steady work in movies, however. In “The Children’s Hour” (1961), an adaptation of Lillian Hellman’s play, he played a doctor engaged to a schoolteacher (Audrey Hepburn) accused of being a lesbian. He appeared uncomfortable in that earnest role, but he was winning and warm in “The Great Escape” (1963), the World War II adventure about captured Allied fliers plotting to break out of a German prison camp, as Bob Hendley, the resourceful prisoner known as the Scrounger.
不过他在电影中不断上镜。1961年的《双姝怨》(The Children’s Hour)是根据莉莉安·赫尔曼(Lillian Hellman)的话剧改编的，他在其中扮演一个医生，与奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)饰演的学校教师订婚，她被指责是女同性恋。饰演这样正经的一个角色让他觉得很不自在，但他在1963年的《大逃亡》(The Great Escape)中的角色就显得温暖迷人，影片是关于一场“二战”中的冒险，被俘的盟军飞行员们计划从德军战俘营中逃出去，加纳在其中饰演足智多谋的囚犯鲍勃·亨得利(Bob Hendley)，绰号“乞丐”。
In 1964 he starred with Julie Andrews in “The Americanization of Emily,” which he called his favorite of all his films. He played the personal attendant of a Navy admiral, a fish out of water and the voice of the movie’s pacifist point of view.
1964年，他和朱莉·安德鲁斯(Julie Andrews)联合出演了《艾米莉的美国化》，他说这是自己最喜欢的影片。他在其中饰演一位海军军官的私人助理，在整个环境中显得格格不入，是影片中代表和平主义的声音。
Written by Paddy Chayefsky, it included perhaps the longest and most impassioned speech of his career: “I don’t trust people who make bitter reflections about war, Mrs. Barham,” he said, in part. “It’s always the generals with the bloodiest records who are the first to shout what a hell it is. And it’s always the widows who lead the Memorial Day parades.”
影片的编剧是帕迪·查耶夫斯基(Paddy Chayefsky)，加纳在片中发表了一番演说，或许是他整个演艺生涯中最长、也是最激情洋溢的一番话：“我不信任那些痛苦地反思战争的人，巴汉姆女士，”他说，“总是那些有着最血腥纪录的将军们最先出来叫喊战争有多可怕。而总是那些寡妇们走在阵亡将士纪念日游行队伍的前列。”
Mr. Garner was often injured on the job; during the Rockford years, he had several knee operations and back trouble. More seriously, in 1988, he had a quintuple bypass operation, which cost him his job as spokesman for the beef industry.
加纳经常在拍片时受伤：在拍洛克福特系列的时候，他动过几次膝关节手术，背部也有伤。更严重的是，1988年，他动过一次心脏搭桥手术，令他失去了牛肉工业代言人的工作。
After surgery, he made a vigorous return to work. He appeared in the television films “My Name Is Bill W” (1989), starring James Woods as a founder of Alcoholics Anonymous, and “Barbarians at the Gate” (1993), based on the best-selling book about the leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco; in “My Fellow Americans” (1996), a comic adventure in which he and Jack Lemmon played feuding former presidents who find themselves framed by the sitting president and end up together on the lam; and in the romantic film “The Notebook” (2004).
手术后，他活跃地重返表演事业。他在1989年詹姆斯·伍兹(James Woods)主演的电视电影《我是比尔·W》中亮相，饰演一个匿名戒酒会的创始人。还有1993年的《门口的野蛮人》(Barbarians at the Gate)，这部根据畅销书改编的作品，讲述RJR纳贝斯克饼干公司的融资收购故事。1996年的《总统拍档》(My Fellow Americans)是个喜剧冒险故事，他在其中与杰克·莱蒙(Jack Lemmon)饰演两个长期不合的前总统，最后发现他们都被现总统陷害，只得一起逃亡。此外他还在2004年爱情电影《恋恋笔记本》(The Notebook)中出演角色。
He also reprised his Rockford character in several television movies and appeared in the movie version of “Maverick” (1994) as Marshal Zane Cooper, a foil to the title character, played by Mel Gibson.
他在若干电视电影中重演了洛克福特这个角色，还在1994年《赌侠马华力》的电影版中出现，饰演马华力的死对头泽恩·库珀元帅(Marshal Zane Cooper)，马华力由梅尔·吉布森(Mel Gibson)出演。