As its relationship with Democrats hits a historic low, Wall Street sees a solution on the horizon: Hillary Rodham Clinton.
就在与民主党的关系陷入历史新低的时刻，华尔街的视野中出现了一个能带来出路的人，那就是希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。
Mrs. Clinton was the industry’s home state senator, and the financial sector was the second-largest giver to her presidential campaign in 2008. In her post-State Department life, she has been showered with lucrative speaking fees from Goldman Sachs, J. P. Morgan and other financial firms. In her talks, she says it is unproductive to vilify the industry, and she avoids the kind of language that puts off financial executives, as when President Obama referred to “fat cat” bankers in 2009.
克林顿曾是金融业的大本营纽约州的联邦参议员，而且该行业是她在2008年竞选总统时的第二大捐款金主。从美国国务院卸任之后，她不时在高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根大通(J. P. Morgan)等金融企业发表演讲，并从中得到丰厚的酬劳。她在讲话中表示，诋毁金融业不会产生什么好结果。与奥巴马总统2009年时把银行业高层称为“肥猫”不同，她避免了使用此类令金融高管们反感的措辞。
But as Wall Street hopes for a warm embrace from the former secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton must grapple with a powerful populist surge coursing through national politics, on both the right and the left.
不过，尽管华尔街希望能得到这位前国务卿的热情接纳，但克林顿却不得不努力应对席卷美国政坛左右两翼的强劲的民粹主义浪潮。
Attacks on Wall Street bailouts are a staple of Tea Party campaigns. Republicans, many of whom deliberately stood on the sidelines during the legislative battle over the Dodd-Frank legislation and have quietly reaped the benefits of Wall Street’s disenchantment with Mr. Obama, are now reeling from the primary election defeat of Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the former majority leader. Mr. Cantor’s opponent, David Brat, won in part by attacking Mr. Cantor’s ties to the financial world.
攻击政府对华尔街的救援是茶党(Tea Party)运动的惯用招数。在围绕《多德-弗兰克法案》(Dodd-Frank)展开的立法斗争中，许多共和党人谨慎地在一边观战，并且默不作声地从金融界对奥巴马的幻想破灭中坐收渔利。然而现如今，让他们大为意外的是，众议院前多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)在弗吉尼亚州的初选中落败。坎托的对手戴维·布拉特(David Brat)赢得此次选战部分依靠的是攻击坎托和金融界的关系。
In Mrs. Clinton’s years away from politics, income inequality has become a defining political issue in the Democratic Party, elevating a new generation of stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who has pushed for the breakup of large financial institutions. Late last month, Ms. Warren campaigned in Kentucky for Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Democratic candidate for Senate, a sign that some in the party believe the Massachusetts senator’s message resonates well beyond the left. (Mrs. Clinton has not yet campaigned on behalf of Ms. Grimes, though an adviser said she will likely do so this fall.)
在克林顿离开政坛的日子里，收入差距已成为民主党内的决定性政治议题，新一代的明星也借此脱颖而出，比如来自马萨诸塞州的联邦参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)。她曾为推动分拆大型金融机构而出力。上个月末，沃伦在肯塔基州为民主党的联邦参议员候选人艾莉森·卢德甘·格里梅斯(Alison Lundergan Grimes)站台。一些党内人士认为，这是一个信号，表明这位马萨诸塞州参议员的理念引发的共鸣已远远超出左翼的范畴。（克林顿还没有为格里梅斯的竞选站台，不过，一名顾问表示，她可能会在今秋这么做。）
“I think there’s a potential window for Democrats to come back, but if it is one wing of the party pushing the populist line — anti-big banks, punishing people whether or not they had anything to do with the crisis — they’ll lock this crowd into a Republican alternative,” said Bill Daley, a former chief of staff to Mr. Obama and commerce secretary under President Clinton who is now an executive at a Switzerland-based hedge fund.
“我认为，民主党仍有机会卷土重来，不过，如果只是党内的一队人马在推行民粹主义——反对大银行，不问青红皂白地惩罚人——他们就会迫使众人不得不转而选择共和党”，比尔·戴利(Bill Daley)说。他曾是奥巴马的幕僚长，并是比尔·克林顿政府的商务部长，目前在一家总部位于瑞士的对冲基金担任高管。
During her 2008 primary campaign against Mr. Obama, Mrs. Clinton emphasized her husband’s economic record. But running on the 1990s won’t work in 2016, Mr. Daley suggested.
在2008年对阵奥巴马的初选中，克林顿强调了她丈夫取得的经济成果。不过，戴利表示，上世纪90年代的成就用在2016年的大选中是行不通的。
“She has to figure out where she is going forward,” Mr. Daley said.
“她必须搞清自己前行的方向，”戴利说。
At stake is not merely tens of millions of dollars in campaign money, but the shape of debates about social mobility, taxation and regulation. In the next few years, lawmakers may consider proposals to allow American corporations to “repatriate” overseas income at a reduced tax rate; change how the government backs home mortgages; eliminate the “carried interest” loophole that allows private equity managers to avoid paying higher tax rates; and more tightly regulate commodities trading.
这不仅关系到数千万美元的竞选资金，还关系到如何塑造有关社会流动性、税收和监管的讨论。在接下里的几年里，议员们可能会考虑诸多提案，包括允许美国企业以较低的税率把海外收入“返回”本土；改变政府支持住房抵押贷款的模式；填补“附带收益”漏洞，以免私募基金经理人借此避开较高的税率；以及实施更严格的大宗商品交易监管。
“Secretary Clinton’s time in the Senate was characterized by a willingness to work with all of the stakeholders, but she left the Senate just as the crisis was hitting its low point,” said Francis Creighton, the top lobbyist for the Financial Services Roundtable, a trade association representing the largest banks and financial firms. “As an industry, we’re not sure how her views have evolved over the last five years on what we do. The question is: Will her perspective have changed?”
“克林顿国务卿担任参议员时，一向乐于与所有利益相关方合作，不过，金融危机正好要发展到最严重的地步时，她离开了参议院，”金融服务圆桌组织(Financial Services Roundtable)的首席游说人员弗朗西斯·克赖顿(Francis Creighton)说。该组织是行业协会，代表的是美国规模最大的银行和金融机构。 “我们不确定，在过去五年中，她对我们这个产业的看法有什么变化。问题是：她的看法会有所改变吗？”
A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, Nick Merrill, declined to describe her positions on a variety of current regulatory and Wall Street issues but said in an email: “Reducing inequality and increasing upward mobility has been an uninterrupted pursuit of hers through every job she’s held, and it continues to this day in her work at the Clinton Foundation.”
克林顿的发言人尼克·梅里尔(Nick Merrill)拒绝说明她对当前的各种监管制度及华尔街议题的态度，但在邮件中表示：“减少不平等现象、增加向上的流动性是她的一贯追求，每份工作都是如此，包括她迄今为止为克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)所做的工作。”
If Mrs. Clinton runs for president, she will step into what is already a heated debate about the interplay between financial regulation, growing inequality and the economic squeeze of the middle class.
如果克林顿竞选总统，她将陷入一场原本就非常激烈的讨论。这场辩论的主题是金融监管、日益严重的贫富差距，以及中产阶级经济紧缩之间的相互影响。
The Third Way, a center-left think tank founded by two former Clinton administration aides, has assailed Ms. Warren, saying her economic populism would be “disastrous for Democrats.”
三维智库(The Third Way)抨击沃伦，称她的经济民粹主义“会为民主党带来灾难性后果”。这家中左翼智库由比尔·克林顿政府的两名前幕僚创建。
As Democrats debate whether to get tougher on Wall Street, the industry appears to have taken notice. Securities and investment firm employees have given a smaller proportion of their political donations to Democrats over the last three years than any period for which data is available, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks political fund-raising.
随着民主党人就是否强化对华尔街的立场展开讨论，金融业貌似已经注意到这一点。 根据追踪政治筹款状况的响应性政治中心(Center for Responsive Politics)提供的数据，在过去三年中，证券及投资公司的员工向民主党捐出的政治献金比有记录以来的其他任何时期都要少。
Financial regulation has also become a pivotal issue in the jockeying over who will become chairman of the Senate Banking Committee should Democrats keep control of the Senate.
如果民主党人能继续掌控参议院，围绕着该由谁担任参议院银行委员会(Senate Banking Committee)主席一职的问题，各方展开了角逐。在这一过程中，金融监管已成为关键议题。