Slurred and incoherent speech is one of the classic signs of a stroke. But new research finds that another symptom may be garbled and disjointed text messages, which could provide early clues to the onset of a stroke.
说话声音含糊、意思不连贯，这是脑卒中（俗称中风）最典型的症状之一。而一项新研究发现，发的手机短信意思混乱、支离破碎也可能是脑卒中的另一项症状，它或许是一场脑卒中开始发作的最初线索。
In Detroit, doctors encountered a 40-year-old patient who had no trouble reading, writing or understanding language. His only consistent problem was that he had lost the ability to type coherent text messages on his phone. An imaging scan showed that he had suffered a mild ischemic stroke, caused by a clot or blockage in his brain.
在底特律，医生们遇到了一位40岁的病人，他在阅读、写字和理解语言方面都没有障碍。他碰到的唯一挥之不去的问题是没法用手机打出连贯的短信。成像扫描显示他经历了一次轻微的缺血性脑卒中，这是因大脑的血管出现血栓或阻塞而引起的。
The case represents at least the second instance of what doctors are calling “dystextia.” In December, a report in The Archives of Neurology described a 25-year-old pregnant woman whose husband grew concerned after she sent him a series of incoherent text messages. Doctors found that the woman had also been experiencing weakness in her right arm and leg, and that she had earlier had difficulty filling out an intake form at her obstetrician’s office.
这个病人起码是第二宗医生们所称的“发短信障碍症”病例。去年12月，《神经学档案》(The Archives of Neurology)上刊登了一则病例报告：一名25岁的孕妇给丈夫发了一连串内容不连贯的短信，这令他渐渐不安起来。医生发现这位女性同时还曾出现右臂和右腿软弱不力的症状，在早先去产科门诊填写问卷表格时也遇到了困难。
The case in Detroit was particularly unusual because garbled texting appeared to be the only conspicuous problem, at least initially, said Dr. Omran Kaskar, a senior neurology resident at Henry Ford Hospital who treated the patient in late 2011. “Stroke patients usually present with multiple neurologic deficits,” he said.
奥姆兰·卡斯卡(Omran Kaskar)医生是底特律亨利·福特医院(Henry Ford Hospital)的高年资神经科住院医生，2011年底就是他收治了这位病人，他介绍说，这个病例尤其与众不同，因为发短信内容不连贯似乎是他身上出现的唯一明显的问题。“中风病人通常都会出现多种神经功能缺损，”他说。
The findings suggest that text messaging may be a unique form of language controlled by a distinct part of the brain. And because texts are time-stamped, they may potentially be useful as a way of helping doctors determine precisely when a patient’s stroke symptoms began.
研究发现，手机短信是一种特殊的语言形态，由大脑的其中一个专属部位控制。而且发出的短信都有时间记号，因此在帮助医生精确判断病人的脑卒中症状从何时开始时，可能会很有用。
The patient was a businessman who had traveled to southeast Michigan one evening for a work trip. Shortly after midnight, the man sent text messages to his wife that were disjointed and nonsensical – and not because he was using shorthand.
这位底特律病人是个商人，一天晚上他出差来到了密歇根州东南部。就在夜里12点出头时，他给妻子发了几条内容混乱、词不达意的短信——这并不是因为在短信里他用了缩略词。
One message said: “Oh baby your.” Another text, moments later, said, “I am happy.” The man later wrote that he was “out of it” and “can’t make sense.”
其中一条短信写道：“噢宝贝你的。”另一条不久后发来的短信写道：“我很幸福。”随后他又发来短信说自己“晕晕乎乎”，“思路没条理”。
The next morning, he had trouble conveying his thoughts. A colleague noticed that his speech seemed slightly abnormal, and the man told him he wasn’t feeling right, Dr. Kaskar said.
据卡斯卡医生介绍，第二天早上，病人在表达自己的想法时出现了困难。一位同事注意到他说话稍微有点反常，病人表示自己觉得不太对劲。
At a hospital, the man was given a test that looks for impairment caused by a stroke, called the National Institutes of Health stroke scale.
送进医院后，医生让这位病人完成一项名为“美国卫生研究所”脑卒中量表的测试，以发现因脑卒中而造成的神经功能缺损。
A score of zero on the test indicates no stroke symptoms. Scores from 5 to 15 reflect a moderate stroke, and anything between 21 and 42 suggest a severe stroke. The man scored a 2 on the test and was given a CT scan, which showed a lesion in a part of the brain that involves language production, called Broca’s area.
在这项测试中如果得零分，意味着没有出现中风症状。得分在5-15分之间，反映病人出现了中度中风，而在21-42分之间，则意味着严重中风。这位男士得了2分，随后的CT检查显示他大脑的布洛卡区(Broca’s area)，也就是与语言生成有关的区域出现了损伤。
The next morning, the man reported that he felt much better. Other than a slight weakness on the right side of his face, he had no visible neurological problems.
第二天早上，这位病人声称自己感觉好多了。除了右边的半边面部肌肉有些轻微用不上劲，他已经没有明显的神经障碍。
“We tested him and he had no deficits in comprehension, reading and naming objects,” said Dr. Kaskar, who is presenting his findings at an American Academy of Neurology conference this week. “He had no trouble repeating sentences that I would say, and his fluency was fine. The only abnormal finding was his texting.”
“我们对他进行了测试，结果发现他在理解、阅读和指出物品名称方面没有任何缺陷，”卡斯卡医生说。他在本周的美国神经学学会(American Academy of Neurology)的一次会议上宣读了自己的发现。“他可以毫无障碍地复述我说过的语句，而且表达流畅。唯一不寻常的地方就是发短信。”
Another doctor handed the man a smartphone and asked him to type a text message with the sentence, “The doctor needs a new BlackBerry.”
另一位医生给了这位男士一部智能手机，让他写这么一行短信：“这医生需要一部新的黑莓手机。”
“She said, ‘Type this exactly how I’m saying it, and don’t make any abbreviations or anything,’” Dr. Kaskar said.
卡斯卡描述当时的情形：“她说，‘照我说的原封不动地来打这行短信，别用任何缩略词或类似的表达。’”
In response, the man typed, “Tjhe Doctor nddds a new bb.”
结果，这位男士在短信中写道：“介医生许要一部新的bb机（原文为：Tjhe Doctor nddds a new bb.）。”
When asked if the sentence looked correct, the man said he could not see anything wrong with it.
医生问这位男士，他自己觉得这句话看起来对不对，而他回答说，在他看来没什么错误。
Because texting was his only severe problem at that time, Dr. Kaskar speculated that there might be a part of Broca’s area that handles texting as if it were a unique form of language or communication. Text messaging has emerged as an important and expressive form of language, he said, which entails “various complexities” and abbreviations, like “btw,” “brb” and “lol.”
卡斯卡医生推测说，由于发短信有障碍是病人当时唯一严重的问题，那么，大脑布洛卡区中的部分区域也许是在管理着发短信的功能，将它也当成了一种特殊的语言或交流形式。他说，短信已经渐渐发展为一种重要的、有表现力的语言形式，而发短信既需要“各种复杂的表达”，也需要像“btw（顺便说一句）”、“brb（马上就回来）”和“lol（大笑）”这类缩短词。
“It may be a new area of language that hasn’t really been explored or tested,” he said. “In humans, language evolved. Is text messaging some sort of new specific language that the brain is developing?”
他说：“这可能是一个尚未真正得以考察和测试的语言区域。在人类而言，语言在不断进化。短信是不是一种大脑正在不断培育的新的语言？”
Whether that turns out to be true or not, the case, like the one described in December, suggests that doctors may at times be able to use time-stamped text messages to pinpoint when stroke symptoms began. Figuring out the time of onset can help doctors determine the course of treatment and whether or not to use acute interventions.
不管卡斯卡医生的推测是否正确，这起病例和12月的那个病例意味着，在某些情况下医生可以利用有时间标记的短信来发现中风症状何时开始。掌握了发作时间，有助于医生确定疗程以及是否使用紧急干预治疗手段。
“In other words, time is brain,” Dr. Kaskar said. “The sooner a stroke is detected and treated, the better the outcome.”
“换句话说，时间就是大脑，”卡斯卡医生说，“脑卒中越早得到确诊和治疗，预后就越好。”