It was a question that most major presidential candidates would have quickly dismissed as absurd, even offensive: What do you make of these theories that Justice Antonin Scalia was murdered?
多数重量级总统候选人都会第一时间说，这是个荒诞甚或无礼的问题：你如何看待大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Justice Antonin Scalia)死于谋杀的说法？
For Donald J. Trump, it appeared unavoidably juicy, and possibly the next big pop-culture fixation. “You know, I just landed, and I’m hearing it’s a big topic,” Mr. Trump told the radio host Michael Savage from South Carolina, in an interview just a few days after the Supreme Court justice’s unexpected death. Even as he said he could not speak to whether a special commission should investigate the death, he added, “They say they found a pillow on his face, which is a pretty unusual place to find a pillow.”
对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)来说，这却是一则没法回避的猛料，有望成为下一个重要的流行文化固恋。“你看，我的飞机刚落地，我听说这是个重要话题，”斯卡利亚大法官意外去世几天后，身在南卡罗来纳的特朗普在访谈中对电台主持人迈克尔·萨维奇(Michael Savage)说。他甚至一边说自己不能表态要不要设立特别委员会调查死因，一边说，“他们说，发现他脸上有个枕头，在那个地方发现枕头，可是相当不寻常的。”
Mr. Trump, unlike most presidential candidates, does not shrink from addressing, and in some ways legitimizing, the wildest of hypotheticals. He has declared on a presidential debate stage that he knew a 2-year-old who immediately developed autism from a vaccination. He has appeared on the radio show of the noted conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who has suggested that the government played a role in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. He has said on Twitter that President Obama might have attended Justice Scalia’s funeral had it been held at a mosque, feeding into the pervasive rumor that the Christian president is actually a Muslim. And he shared with a rally crowd a dramatic story of a United States general executing Muslim insurgents with bullets dipped in pigs’ blood, which has been dismissed as an Internet rumor.
和绝大多数总统候选人不一样的是，特朗普不介意对最疯狂的假说发表评论，从某些方面看，他甚至在把它们正当化。他曾在总统竞选辩论上宣称，他知道有个两岁的孩子在接种疫苗后立刻出现自闭症症状。他上过知名阴谋论者阿历克斯·琼斯(Alex Jones)的电台节目，此人认为政府参与了9·11恐怖袭击和2013年波士顿马拉松赛爆炸案。特朗普在Twitter上说，如果斯卡利亚大法官的葬礼在一个清真寺里举行，奥巴马总统大概就会参加了，这是在助长一个坊间疯传的谣言：总统其实不是基督徒，而是一名穆斯林。他也曾在一场集会上讲过一个令人印象深刻的故事，说一位美国将军曾用浸泡过猪血的子弹处决穆斯林暴民，此事被认为只是一个网络谣言。
Part hair-salon gossip, part purveyor of forwarded conspiracy emails, Mr. Trump has exploited the news cycles of an Internet era in which rumors explode like fireworks and often take a long time to burn out. Mr. Trump’s willingness to touch on what passes for fact on fringe websites puts him in a unique class for a national major party front-runner.
通过这种发廊八卦加阴谋论转发邮件的手法，特朗普充分利用了互联网时代的新闻周期特性，如今的传闻会像烟花一般爆发，且往往要过很久才燃尽。由于愿意去触碰那些被边缘网站视为真相的东西，在一个全国性大党的党内选举中领先的特朗普，显得自成一格。
“It’s like a walking, talking Enquirer magazine,” said Erick Erickson, the former editor in chief of the conservative website RedState, referring to the popular supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. Mr. Erickson often shut down interest in conspiracy theories on his website, such as the so-called birther rumors that Mr. Obama was born in Kenya.
“就像一份会走路、会说话的《询问报》，”保守派网站RedState前主编埃里克·埃里克森(Erick Erickson)说，这里他提到的是热销超市小报《国家询问报》(National Enquirer)。埃里克森经常在他的网站上驳斥一些阴谋论，比如说奥巴马出生在肯尼亚的所谓出生地传闻。
Such supermarket tabloids “do very well — people do like the stories of aliens meeting with presidents,” said Mr. Erickson, who has often clashed with Mr. Trump.
这样的超市小报“卖得很好——人们就是爱看总统和外星人会面的故事，”曾和特朗普多次发生冲突的埃里克森说。
It is not a total surprise that Mr. Trump is the candidate most likely to use the phrase “I hear” before stating something as fact, no matter how flimsy the information he passes along. A man who reveled in his presence in the New York tabloid pages for decades, he saw firsthand the power of stories, especially those that shock people, to command attention. But the expectations for what a presidential standard-bearer would pass along have typically been higher.
特朗普是最爱用“我听说”来开头，接着把一些传闻当作事实来叙述的候选人——无论这些传闻有多么经不起推敲。但这也并不是太出人意料。几十年来，此人陶醉于自己在纽约小报上的存在感，亲眼目睹了各种故事，特别是那些令人震惊的故事，在吸引注意力时有多大的威力。但是，对于一个有总统素质的领导者应该传播怎样的消息，人们的期望通常会更高一些。
It was the “birther” theories that Mr. Trump used to stoke interest in his own potential candidacy in 2011. That year, he repeatedly demanded that Mr. Obama produce his Hawaiian birth certificate. In April of that year, he claimed to have sent investigators to the state: “They can’t believe what they’re finding,” he said, though he has never made public any such findings, and Mr. Obama later released his birth certificate.
2011年时，特朗普利用“质疑出生地”的论调，让人们对他自己参选的可能性产生了兴趣。那年，他一再要求奥巴马出示他的夏威夷出生证明。那年4月，他声称已派调查员前往夏威夷：“发现了一些他们自己都不敢相信的东西。”不过他从来没有公布任何这样的调查结果，而奥巴马后来公开了自己的出生证明。
Mr. Trump has since tried to steer clear of the birthplace claims about Mr. Obama. But he used similar questions to try to inject doubt about Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who was born in Canada to a United States citizen.
之后，特朗普不再谈论奥巴马的出生地问题。但他又使用了类似的问题，激起了人们对德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的疑心。克鲁兹出生在加拿大，母亲是美国公民。
The candidate has used his Twitter feed to pass along other dubious theories, including false crime statistics about blacks and questions about Senator Marco Rubio’s eligibility to be president. Mr. Rubio was born in the United States. Pressed about passing along such conjecture by the ABC News host George Stephanopoulos on Feb. 21, Mr. Trump gave a response he frequently uses to deflect responsibility for sharing inaccurate information. “Somebody said he’s not, and I retweeted it,” Mr. Trump said. “We start a dialogue, and it’s very interesting.”
特朗普还用自己的Twitter账号传播了其他一些可疑的说法，包括虚假的黑人犯罪统计数据，以及质疑参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)担任总统的资格。卢比奥出生在美国。2月21日，ABC新闻频道(ABC News)主持人乔治·斯蒂芬诺伯罗斯(George Stephanopoulos)对传播这样的揣测表示了质疑，特朗普则在回应中故技重施，推卸了他传播不实信息的责任。“有人说他不是，我就转推了那则消息，”特朗普说。“我们开启了一场对话，很有趣的对话。”
He has also promoted the notion that vaccines cause autism, a claim that has been widely debunked by doctors and scientists. “Just the other day, 2 years old, 2-and-a-half-years old, a child, a beautiful child went to have the vaccine, and came back, and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic,” Mr. Trump said at a Republican debate in September. When another presidential candidate, Michele Bachmann, then a Minnesota congresswoman, made a similar claim in the 2012 campaign, she was savaged by news media commentators for the remarks; Mr. Trump received little serious blowback.
他还宣扬了疫苗导致自闭症的说法，事实上医生和科学家已经全面揭穿了这种谎言。“就在前几天，一个2岁，可能2岁半的孩子，很可爱的孩子，去接种了疫苗回来，一周后就出现了严重高烧，病得非常、非常厉害，现在已经患上了自闭症，”特朗普去年9月在共和党的一场辩论中说。2012年时，时任明尼苏达州众议员的米歇尔·巴赫曼(Michele Bachmann)同样作为总统候选人，在竞选中使用了类似的说法，不过她的言论遭到了新闻媒体评论员的猛烈抨击；但特朗普却基本上没有受到有力反击。
Christopher Ruddy, the editor in chief of the conservative website Newsmax, said Mr. Trump’s popularity was driven in part by the larger mistrust of traditional institutions, including the mainstream news media.
克里斯托弗·拉迪(Christopher Ruddy)是保守派网站Newsmax的主编，他认为，推高特朗普人气的一个原因，是人们更不相信包括主流新闻媒体在内的传统机制。
“I’m not so sure he believes there’s anything to these things, but I believe he enjoys the conversation about it; it keeps the script moving,” said Mr. Ruddy, who wrote a book examining the death of the former Clinton White House aide Vincent W. Foster Jr., which was ruled a suicide but remains a topic of conspiracy theories.
拉迪说，“我觉得他未必认为这些事有多么重要，但我相信，他喜欢关于这些话题的对话；它推动着剧情的发展。”拉迪写过一本书，讲述克林顿时期前白宫幕僚小文森特·W·福斯特(Vincent W. Foster Jr.)之死。虽然福斯特被判定为自杀，但阴谋论的说法仍然挥之不去。
Mr. Trump, Mr. Ruddy said, is using a stream-of-consciousness style, speaking “as if you were the neighbor next door or a friend of his.” It’s that “we’re just chatting” approach that has let working-class voters see the New York plutocrat as someone to whom they can relate, Mr. Ruddy said.
拉迪说，特朗普使用了一种意识流的风格，说话时“就好像你是他的隔壁邻居或朋友”。这种“我们就是闲聊会儿”的口吻，让工薪阶层选民把这个纽约富豪看成了有共同语言的人，拉迪说。