“Hair is political.”
“发型事关政治。”
That was the line that stuck with me when my 17-year-old daughter recently regaled me with the minutiae of a lighthearted argument she’d had with a friend. It was about my daughter’s staunch resistance to straightening or altering her hair in any way.
我17岁的女儿最近饶有兴致地向我详细地转述了，她与一个朋友之间一段轻松争辩。争辩的话题是，我的女儿坚决不愿意拉直头发，或者以任何方式改变自己的头发。
The friend had insisted that such alterations were no big deal, to which my daughter took umbrage and shot back, “Hair is political.”
那位朋友坚持说，这样的改变没什么大不了的。我女儿恼火地回击道，“发型事关政治。”
In my daughter’s view, such alterations were a sign of suppressive concepts of worth and beauty of which she would have no part. Presenting herself as nature made her was an act of self-loving defiance that demanded not her alteration but the alteration of others’ attitudes about how we expect people to bend in order to belong, about how many destructive subliminal messages we’ve all absorbed and how we must search ourselves for the truth of our own prejudices.
在我女儿看来，这样的改变象征着那些她不认同的压抑的价值观和审美观。以大自然创造出的模样展示自己，是一种出于自爱的反抗。这种姿态不会要求她自己改变，而是要求其他人改变那种期望别人为了赢得归属感，进而屈从的态度；要求其他人认识到，我们吸收了多少破坏性的潜在讯息；也要求人们认识到，需要怎样自我探究，才能明白关于自身偏见的真相。
It reminded me of the profound commentary on the subject by the actress Tracie Thoms in Chris Rock’s 2009 documentary “Good Hair”: “To keep my hair the same texture as it grows out of my head is looked at as revolutionary. Why is that?”
这让我想起演员翠茜·索姆斯(Tracie Thoms)在克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock) 2009年的纪录片《好头发》(Good Hair)中，对这个话题做出的深刻评论：“我把头发保留成从脑袋上长出来的那种质地，就被当成具有革命性。为什么会这样？”
But to me, my daughter’s message was bigger than her, or hair, or a debate between teenagers. It was a life lesson that we all have to learn, over and over: Self-acceptance, of all stripes, large and small, is always an inherently political and profoundly revolutionary act.
但在我看来，我的女儿表达的观点比她本人、头发，或是少年之间的一场争辩都更为宏大。这是一则我们所有人都一再温习的人生教训：自我接受，无论大小或形式，总是具有内在的政治性，也总是一种带有深刻革命性的举动。
We are so suffused in a mix of misogyny, patriarchy, racism, sexism, homophobia and hetero-normative exclusionary idealism that we can easily lose sight of the singular acts of ordinary bravery that each of us displays every time we choose not to play along.
我们身边充斥着一种仇视女性、父权至上、种族主义、性别歧视、恐惧同性恋、异性恋才正常的偏狭的理想主义，所以可能很容易会忽视我们每一次选择不随大流之时，所表现出的日常的、个体的勇气。
Life is an endless negotiation with ourselves and with the world about who we are — the truest truth of who we are — and whether we have the mettle to simply be us, all of us, as we are, backlash notwithstanding.
生命就是我们与自己、与周遭的世界进行的一番永无止境的谈判，涉及“我们是谁”这个问题的最真答案，也涉及我们有没有勇气干脆以自己的本来面貌存在，遭遇冲击也在所不惜。
And every time we answer “yes” to the question of courage, we stand an inch taller and we rise closer to the light.
每一次我们对勇气的问题给出肯定的回答，我们站定的身姿就能高大一寸，距离光明也就更近一分。
In fact, Michaela Angela Davis, a self-described “image activist,” calls this the “Age of Identity and Intersections.”
实际上，自称“形象活动家”的迈克拉·安吉拉·戴维斯(Michaela Angela Davis)把这称为“身份与交叉路口的时代”。
It is a time when more people are asserting themselves as nonconformists as they recognize that there is a variety of intersections to subjugation. It’s a twist on the idea of diversity: not simply honoring a variety of origins as positive, but uniting under a banner that reminds us that the diminution of the very concept of variance has been a historical tool of psychic violence against those deemed “different.”
这个时代，有越来越多的人主张自我，不肯遵循规范，因为他们认识到，有诸多通向屈服的交叉路口。这对多样性的观念做出了改变：不仅认为我们出身的多样性是正面的，因而要加以尊重，而且要把我们联合到一面大旗之下，提醒我们：对“差异”这个概念本身的贬抑，在历史上一直是对那些被认为“不同”的人施加心理暴力的工具。
It is about developing kinship and alliance among the historically alienated.
重点是在历史上受到疏离的人群之间，培育出亲切感，建立联盟。
It is about understanding that open hatred of — or even subtle, sometimes subconscious devaluing of — women, minorities (racial, ethnic, religious or otherwise) and people who don’t hew to sexual or gender norms are not discrete dysfunctions, but are of a kind, a cousin of flawed consciousness.
重点是要理解，对于女性，种族、民族、宗教或其他意义上的少数群体，以及不符合性别规范的人公开表现出的仇恨，乃至有时下意识的、微妙的贬低，并不是私密的问题，而是属于同一种类，与存在缺陷的意识关系紧密。
And when that is understood, the fight against them all becomes more focused. You stop hacking at the branches and start digging at the root.
理解这一点后，对抗这些问题就更容易抓住重点。不用再砍伐枝节末梢，而是开始挖掘根系。
Sometimes, when we are confronted by another overt act of intolerance in the news — another racial epithet, a further effort to erode women’s access to a full range of reproductive options, one more state attempting to hold on to its bans against marriage equality, another manifestation of rape culture — it can seem that we are going backward in this fight rather than forward.
有时，当我们在新闻里看到又一个不宽容的公开举动时——诸如种族歧视的咒骂、进一步侵蚀女性生育选择权的举动、又一个州试图坚持反对婚姻平等的禁令、强奸文化再一次表露——仿佛在这些斗争中，我们非但没有进展，还出现了退步。
But I don’t think so. I think that, as the saying goes, it’s darkest before the dawn, that these cases stand out not necessarily because they are growing, but because they are so at odds with this country’s moral trajectory. (Although, it must be said that there are increasing efforts, particularly in Republican-controlled states, to restrict women’s health care.)
但我并不这样认为。我想，就像有句话说的，这是黎明前的黑暗，这些个案受到如此关注，未必是因为数量在增加，而是因为它们与这个国家的道德走向相悖。（不过必须指出，限制女性医疗的举措正在增多，尤其是在共和党控制的州。）
Young people in America are growing up in a country that is quickly becoming brown, where women outnumber men in colleges, where acknowledgment of sexual identity is increasingly met with shrugs.
美国年轻人成长的环境中，人们的肤色正在迅速变深，高等教育中女性人数已经超过男性，承认性别取向时，旁人也会越来越多地不以为意。
This doesn’t mean that they are immune to bias, but it does give hope that bias will diminish as difference becomes more mainstream, historical privileges become more identified and gender roles become less rigid.
这并不意味着他们不会被另眼相看，但这的确能让人产生希望，随着不同变成主流，偏见也会减少，旧有特权会被更多的指出，性别角色也会变得不那么严格。
That is why I greet with overwhelming optimism the continuous stream of people who refuse to conform and who insist on acknowledgment of their own identities, as they are, in all of their inherent glories and by way of their “revolutionary acts.”
所以在不断有人通过“革命性的举动”拒绝遵从规范，坚持以自己蕴含内在光彩的真实面貌承认自己的身份时，我会报以极大的乐观。