KATHMANDU, Nepal — The government of Nepal is asking foreign search-and-rescue teams to leave now that the likelihood of finding survivors buried by last month's earthquake has largely passed, and a top Nepali tourism official said Monday that no more climbers were likely to ascend Mount Everest this season.
尼泊尔加德满都——尼泊尔政府要求外国搜救队离开该国，因为在上个月的地震之后，找到被掩埋的幸存者的时机已经过去了。尼泊尔的旅游业负责官员周一表示，这一季可能不会再允许登山者攀登珠穆朗玛峰了。
“We have already asked them to go home,” Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, a Home Ministry spokesman, said Monday of the foreign rescue teams, adding that roughly half the 4,000 rescuers had already left. “I think all the rescuers will go to their respective countries by Friday.”
“我们已经要求他们离开了，”尼泊尔内政部发言人拉克西米·普拉萨德·德哈卡尔(Laxmi Prasad Dhakal)周一在提到外国救援队时说。他还表示，4000名救援人员中，有大约一半已经离开。“我认为到周五，所有救援人员都将返回各自的国家。”
Some of the rescuers, however, said they had no intention of leaving immediately.
不过，有些救援人员表示，他们并不打算立即离开。
The leader of a large Spanish team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had not been authorized by his embassy to speak publicly, said Nepal's government would soon divide Kathmandu, the capital, into sectors so that various teams would have responsibility for specific parts of the city. In the early days of the rescue effort, teams often ended up searching the same sites because of a lack of coordination.
一支大型西班牙搜救队的领队在匿名情况下表示，尼泊尔政府很快会把首都加德满都划分为不同区域，这样不同的团队就能分别负责各自的区域了。西班牙大使馆不允许此人公开发言。在救援工作的早期，由于缺乏协调，不同团队往往会在同一地点展开搜寻。
Asked whom his team could still rescue, the leader responded: “Whoever is still alive. We don't yet know if anyone is still in there.”
当被问到他的队伍还能营救哪些人时，这位领队回答道：“任何一个还活着的人，我们不知道是不是有人还在里面。”
“We have the technology for surveying under the rubble; we have dogs that sniff people out,” the team leader said. “And we have other kinds of techniques.”
“我们拥有在乱石下面进行搜索的技术，我们还有通过嗅气味把人找出来的狗，”这位领队说。“我们还有其他类型的技术。”
There seems almost no chance that anyone alive is still trapped amid the rubble from the quake, which struck just before noon April 25. On Sunday, though, three survivors were found in the Sindhupalchok district, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area north of Kathmandu. The official death toll now exceeds 7,300.
地震之后的瓦砾中还有幸存者的可能性微乎其微。地震是在4月25日接近正午时发生的。不过，周日又在新图巴尔恰克(Sindhupalchok)发现了三明幸存者，这个位于加德满都以北的县受灾尤其严重，而且基本以农业为主。官方统计的死亡人数目前已超过7300人。
Dr. Ian Norton, head of the World Health Organization's program of foreign medical teams, praised the government's announcement, which he said would free up airport facilities and other resources.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)外国医疗队项目的负责人伊恩·诺顿博士(Dr. Ian Norton)称赞了尼泊尔政府的声明。他表示，这样可以把机场设施和其他资源空出来。