Big donors, leaders of political parties and candidates with access to wealthy supporters will be the biggest beneficiaries of the Supreme Court decision issued on Wednesday, a ruling that could fundamentally reshape the political terrain in the 2014 elections and beyond.
周三，最高法院(Supreme Court)颁布的一项裁决可能会从根本上改变2014年选举及以后的政治格局。大金主、政党领袖和拥有富有的支持者的候选人将是这一裁决的最大受益人。
Election experts predicted a surge of new money into congressional campaigns and political parties, expanding the world of high-dollar fund-raising now dominated by “super PACs” and big-spending political nonprofit groups.
选举专家预测，会有大量资金涌向国会竞选和政党，扩大大额捐款募捐活动的圈子。目前，大额捐款募捐活动由“超级政治行动委员会(super PACs，简称超级PAC）”和财力雄厚的政治非营利组织主导。
The decision effectively eradicates a major campaign finance restriction brought about in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, the cap on the total amount any one person can give to federal candidates and parties in any two-year election cycle.
这一裁决实际上取消了竞选活动接受捐款所受的一项重要约束。该约束是水门事件后实施的，规定了个人在为期两年的选举周期内给联邦候选人或政党捐款的上限。
“The Supreme Court ruling will dramatically increase the importance of major donors in federal elections,” said Robert K. Kelner, a Republican election lawyer.
“最高法院的裁决会极大地增加主要捐赠者在联邦选举中的重要性，”共和党选举事务律师罗伯特·K·克尔纳(Robert K. Kelner)说。
Two groups in particular stand to be most empowered by Wednesday’s decision: Those with the wherewithal to spend millions of dollars on campaign contributions and those with access to them, including party leaders, senior lawmakers and presidents.
尤其有两个群体将成为周三这一裁决的最大获益者：有实力为竞选捐献数百万美元的人，以及能够接触到这些人的人，其中包括政党领袖、资深议员和总统。
Donors would still be barred from giving more than $5,200 to any one candidate over the course of the 2014 campaign. But the new ruling would allow each donor to contribute that amount to as many candidates as he or she wants, freeing those with the means to pour millions of dollars into candidates and parties.
在2014年的竞选期间，捐赠者给每个候选人的捐款依然不得超过5200美元（约合3.2万元人民币）。但新裁决允许每个捐赠人向多名候选人捐那么多钱，人数没有限制，只要他或她愿意。而这可以让他们向候选人和政党捐献数百万美元。
Current rules limit each donor to a total of $74,600 worth of contributions to party committees and political action committees, and $48,600 to all federal candidates, enough to permit a donor to make the maximum $5,200 in contributions to as many as nine candidates. But when the Supreme Court decision goes into effect in the coming months, a single donor will be able to contribute the maximum amount to every candidate in the country, every political action committee, and every party committee, according to campaign experts.
当前的规定是，每个捐赠者给政党委员会和政治行动委员会的捐赠总价值不得超过74600美元；对所有联邦候选人的捐款总额不得超过48600美元，若按给单个候选人最多捐5200美元计算，捐款上限使得每个捐赠者最多只能给九名候选人捐款。但竞选专家称，未来数月当最高法院的这一裁决生效后，捐赠者可以向这个国家所有的候选人、政治行动委员会和政党委员会都捐这么多钱。
The ruling opens the door for each party’s establishment to reclaim some power from the super PACs and independent spending groups that are now playing an outsize role in campaigns. Experts said the decision would permit party leaders to form joint fund-raising committees and solicit multimillion dollar checks on behalf of their party’s candidates. The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, for example, could in theory approach a donor seeking to help Democrats win control of the House of Representatives, and solicit as much as $2.3 million — $5,200 for each Democratic candidate in every House race, plus a contribution to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
这一裁决为各政党的权威阶层从超级政治行动委员会和独立支出组织那里收回部分权力打开了大门。当前，超级政治行动委员会和独立支出组织在竞选中的影响非同一般。专家称该判决会促使政党领袖组成联合募捐委员会，以自己政党候选人的名义索要金额高达数百万美元的支票。比如，众议院少数党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)理论上可以找到某个捐赠人，请对方帮民主党赢得对众议院的控制权。她最高可请求对方捐助230万美元——在众议院的每一场竞选中给所有民主党候选人分别捐出5200美元，再加上给民主党国会竞选委员会(Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee)的捐款。
A donor could also, in theory, give $5,000 per year to every political action committee currently registered with the Federal Election Committee. That would total more than $13 million worth of checks, versus the $74,600 allowed under the existing aggregate cap.
从理论上来说，一个捐赠者每年还可以向联邦选举委员会（Federal Election Committee，简称FEC）登记在册的每个政治行动委员会捐5000美元。这将使支票总金额超过1300万美元，而当前规定的总额上限仅为74600美元。
Party officials have been effectively prohibited from soliciting supersize checks since Congress moved in 2002 to ban unlimited contributions to party committees, also known as “soft money.” The prestige and financial muscle of party leaders was further eroded by the court’s Citizens United decision in 2010, which led to “super PACs,” which could raise and spend unlimited amounts of money so long as they did not coordinate with parties or candidates. Super PACs have spent more than $700 million since that decision.
自从国会在2002年通过立法，禁止向政党委员会无上限捐助资金（也被称作“软钱”[soft money]）以来，政党官员实际上已经被禁止索取巨额资助。最高法院在2010年对“联合公民”(Citizens United)案做出判决后，政党领导人物的威望和财力都进一步受到侵蚀。判决导致“超级政治行动委员会”兴起，这种组织只要不与政党和候选人进行协调，就可以筹集和花费不限金额的资金。自从那项裁决以来，超级PAC已经花费了逾7亿美元。
But the new ruling offers a path for party officials to re-establish themselves as kingmakers. And because senior congressional leaders often have the closest ties to big donors, the decision could also give them a powerful tool with which to discipline rank-and-file members.
不过这项新的裁决为政党高层提供了一条途径，可以重新取得决定政坛座次的能力。而且由于国会里的资深领导人物常常与大金主有紧密的关系，这项裁定也能为他们提供有力的手段，来管束麾下的党员。
Supporters of the decision said that it could bring about more transparency to campaign fund-raising, since the new money would flow into entities, like political parties, which are required to disclose their donors. Political nonprofit groups, for example, face no such requirement.
支持者表示，这项裁决能让筹措竞选经费的过程更加透明，因为新捐助的资金会流向那些必须披露捐款人身份的实体，如政党委员会。而举例来说，非营利性的政治团体就不会受到这种约束。
Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, which joined the lawsuit with Shaun McCutcheon, an Alabama businessman, said, “Today’s court decision in McCutcheon v. F.E.C. is an important first step toward restoring the voice of candidates and party committees and a vindication for all those who support robust, transparent political discourse.”
共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)表示，“今天法院在麦卡琛诉FEC一案中做出的裁决，在重新树立候选人和政党委员会的话语权方面，是重要的第一步。对于所有支持有力、透明的政治讨论的人，这项裁决也是一个鼓舞。”共和党全国委员会与阿拉巴马州商人肖恩·麦卡琛(Shaun McCutcheon)在本案中同为原告方。
Critics of the decision said it would erode one of the few remaining barriers to the influence of large donors. The court’s 5-to-4 decision, along ideological lines, said that such concerns were not a sufficient basis to restrict campaign donations.
这项裁决的批评者表示，当下制约大金主影响力的手段本来就很少，这一裁决会进一步削弱他们受到的约束。最高法院的大法官按照意识形态立场，以5:4的投票结果做出了裁决。裁决中说，这种顾虑并不能给限制竞选捐助提供充分的依据。
The decision is also likely to increase pressure on donors: no longer can they fend off elected officials seeking checks by claiming that they have already “maxed out” for the cycle.
这一裁决可能也会加大捐款人面对的压力：当选的官员再来索要支票时，他们不能再用“已经达到这个选举周期的捐款上限”来搪塞了。
“We hate it,” said Manuel Ortiz, a lobbyist at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. “We were joking around with the partners today: guess my kids are going to community college. There is going to be no end in sight. Campaigns now will take as much as you will give.”
曼努埃尔·奥尔蒂斯(Manuel Ortiz)说，“我们痛恨这项裁决。我们今天还跟合伙人们开玩笑说，看来我的孩子们只能上得起社区学院了。一眼看不到头了，现在你捐多少，竞选的人就能拿多少。”奥尔蒂斯是Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck律师事务所的游说人员。