Like many observers, I usually read reports about political goings-on with a sort of weary cynicism. Every once in a while, however, politicians do something so wrong, substantively and morally, that cynicism just won’t cut it; it’s time to get really angry instead. So it is with the ugly, destructive war against food stamps.
与许多观察者一样，阅读政治时事报道时，我通常带着一种不耐烦的怀疑情绪。然而，每过一段时间，政客们就会办出无论在现实上还是道德上都错得离谱的事，以至于仅仅怀疑都不够用了。这种情况下我们就应该愤怒了。有人对食品券发起的后果恶劣的卑鄙战争就是如此。
The food stamp program — which these days actually uses debit cards, and is officially known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program — tries to provide modest but crucial aid to families in need. And the evidence is crystal clear both that the overwhelming majority of food stamp recipients really need the help, and that the program is highly successful at reducing “food insecurity,” in which families go hungry at least some of the time.
食品券计划设法给贫困家庭提供有限但关键的帮助，它的官方名称是“营养补充援助计划”(Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program)，目前这项计划实际使用的是借记卡。有证据清晰无比地显示，绝大部分食品券的领用者真的需要这种帮助，该计划对于缓解“食品不足”十分成功。“食品不足”是指家庭至少在某些时候会饿肚子的情况。
Food stamps have played an especially useful — indeed, almost heroic — role in recent years. In fact, they have done triple duty.
近些年，食品券扮演了尤为有效的角色，确切地说几乎是英雄的角色。实际上，食品券承担了三重任务：
First, as millions of workers lost their jobs through no fault of their own, many families turned to food stamps to help them get by — and while food aid is no substitute for a good job, it did significantly mitigate their misery. Food stamps were especially helpful to children who would otherwise be living in extreme poverty, defined as an income less than half the official poverty line.
首先，由于数百万工薪阶层因为自身之外的原因丧失了工作，许多家庭求助于食品券来帮他们渡过难关，虽然食品救助并不能代替一份好工作，但它确实显著缓解了这些人的困境。食品券对儿童尤其有帮助，尤其是那些如果没有帮助就只能生活在赤贫状态的儿童。赤贫的定义是收入水平还不足官方贫困线的一半。
But there’s more. Why is our economy depressed? Because many players in the economy slashed spending at the same time, while relatively few players were willing to spend more. And because the economy is not like an individual household — your spending is my income, my spending is your income — the result was a general fall in incomes and plunge in employment. We desperately needed (and still need) public policies to promote higher spending on a temporary basis — and the expansion of food stamps, which helps families living on the edge and let them spend more on other necessities, is just such a policy.
不过，食品券还有更多作用。我们的经济为何受到抑制？因为美国经济的许多参与者同时削减开支，相对而言只有极少经济参与者愿意花更多的钱。由于整体经济不像单个家庭——你的支出就是我的收入，而我的支出就是你的收入——结果是收入的普遍降低和就业的下滑。我们迫切需要（而且现在依然需要）公共政策来临时性地提高支出水平。扩大食品券的覆盖范围就是这样一种政策，它能帮助生活在贫困边缘的家庭，让他们把更多的钱花在其他必需品上。
Indeed, estimates from the consulting firm Moody’s Analytics suggest that each dollar spent on food stamps in a depressed economy raises G.D.P. by about $1.70 — which means, by the way, that much of the money laid out to help families in need actually comes right back to the government in the form of higher revenue.
实际上，咨询公司穆迪分析机构(Moody’s Analytics)的评估认为，在经济增长受到抑制时，用于食品券的每1美元（约合6.13元人民币）支出，都能将国内生产总值(GDP)提高1.7美元，这意味着，通过这种方式，为了帮助困难家庭而花费的大部分资金，实际上会以更高的财政收入的形式，重新回到政府手中。
Wait, we’re not done yet. Food stamps greatly reduce food insecurity among low-income children, which, in turn, greatly enhances their chances of doing well in school and growing up to be successful, productive adults. So food stamps are in a very real sense an investment in the nation’s future — an investment that in the long run almost surely reduces the budget deficit, because tomorrow’s adults will also be tomorrow’s taxpayers.
等等，我们还没说完。食品券会大大减少低收入家庭儿童中存在的食品短缺状况，反之，这会大大加强这些儿童在学校好好学习、成为成功而有前途的成年人的几率。所以，从实际意义上说，食品券是对民族未来的投资，长此以往，这项投资几乎肯定会减轻预算赤字，这是因为，未来的成年人也会是未来的纳税人。
So what do Republicans want to do with this paragon of programs? First, shrink it; then, effectively kill it.
那么，共和党人打算对这个政府计划中的典范动什么手脚？首先，他们会缩减食品券计划；而后从事实上扼杀它。
The shrinking part comes from the latest farm bill released by the House Agriculture Committee (for historical reasons, the food stamp program is administered by the Agriculture Department). That bill would push about two million people off the program. You should bear in mind, by the way, that one effect of the sequester has been to pose a serious threat to a different but related program that provides nutritional aid to millions of pregnant mothers, infants, and children. Ensuring that the next generation grows up nutritionally deprived — now that’s what I call forward thinking.
对食品券的缩减部分来自众议院农业委员会(House Committee on Agriculture)发布的最新农业提案（由于历史原因，食品券计划由农业部[Agriculture Department]管辖）。该提案将把200万左右民众挤出食品卷计划。顺便说一句，你别忘了，自动减赤措施的一个影响已经对另一个不同的、但却相关的计划造成了严重的威胁，那就是为数百万孕妇、婴儿和儿童提供营养援助的计划。让下一代在营养不良中长大——这才真是前瞻性思维呢。
And why must food stamps be cut? We can’t afford it, say politicians like Representative Stephen Fincher, a Republican of Tennessee, who backed his position with biblical quotations — and who also, it turns out, has personally received millions in farm subsidies over the years.
为什么要削减食品券呢？田纳西州共和党众议员史蒂芬·芬彻(Stephen Fincher)这样的政治人士说，因为我们承担不起，他还引用《圣经》里的句子来支持其立场。事实证明，芬彻自己在过去几年中就拿到了数百万的农业补贴。
These cuts are, however, just the beginning of the assault on food stamps. Remember, Representative Paul Ryan’s budget is still the official G.O.P. position on fiscal policy, and that budget calls for converting food stamps into a block grant program with sharply reduced spending. If this proposal had been in effect when the Great Recession struck, the food stamp program could not have expanded the way it did, which would have meant vastly more hardship, including a lot of outright hunger, for millions of Americans, and for children in particular.
但这些削减措施只是对食品券发起打击的第一步。还记得吗，众议员保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)的预算案仍然是共和党财政政策的官方立场，该预算案呼吁把食品券计划转换为拨款计划，并大幅减少支出。如果这一提案在大衰退时期生效，食品券计划就不会像我们看到的那样扩展出去，这也意味着更加艰难的时世，比如数百万美国人会直接陷入饥饿，特别是儿童。
Look, I understand the supposed rationale: We’re becoming a nation of takers, and doing stuff like feeding poor children and giving them adequate health care are just creating a culture of dependency — and that culture of dependency, not runaway bankers, somehow caused our economic crisis.
你看，我理解所谓的基本原理：我们正在成为索取者之国，为穷孩子提供食物和充分的医疗保险是在造就依赖文化——正是这种依赖文化在一定程度上导致我国出现经济危机，而非失控的银行家。
But I wonder whether even Republicans really believe that story — or at least are confident enough in their diagnosis to justify policies that more or less literally take food from the mouths of hungry children. As I said, there are times when cynicism just doesn’t cut it; this is a time to get really, really angry.
但我怀疑共和党人是否真正相信这种说法——或至少对自己的判断有足够信心，从而能证明其政策的合理性，他们的政策几乎相当于把食物从饥饿孩童的嘴里拿走。正如我所说，有时候冷嘲热讽是不够的；这个时候应该非常、非常地愤怒。