Each year since their introduction 15 years ago, China’s state-mandated, nationwide vacations — the so-called Golden Weeks — have produced larger and larger crowds, leading to melees at tourist spots as millions of people fight over entry, transportation or just space to be able to move.
自从15年前确定了中国的法定全国休假、既所谓的黄金周假日制度以来，在这些假日观光的人群越来越来大，数以百万计的游客在景点入口、交通站点、或只是为得到点活动空间互相争抢，制造了巨大的混乱。
“Many complained that the system crushed their dreams of quality leisure time,” according to Xinhua, the state news agency.
据国家通讯社新华社报道，“许多人抱怨这个制度让他们能享受高质量休闲时间的梦想破灭。”
This week, the Chinese government responded by shutting down the National Holiday Office that since 2000 had set the dates for the country’s vacations and moving decision-making up the chain to “a higher ministerial joint conference presided over by Vice Premier Wang Yang,” Xinhua reported. Previously, vacation times were scheduled in consultation with 17 government ministries and changed each year.
本周，中国政府做出反应，撤销了全国假日办，该办公室自2000年起负责制定全国的休假日期，假日办撤销后，决策权叫给了规格更高的、由国务院副总理汪洋担任召集人的“国务院旅游工作部际联席会议”，新华社报道称。此前，休假时间是17个政府部门协商制定的，每年都会有所调整。
One purpose of the arrangement was to boost tourist spending by creating longer breaks when people might be able to travel more. Another was to ensure that most people would be released from work on the most important holidays, such as the Mid-Autumn Festival and the Lunar New Year. Too often, employers would refuse employee requests for time off or tell those who insisted on going that they should not bother to return to work.
这个制度的一个目的是振兴旅游经济，通过给人们更长的休息时间，让他们能更多地出游。另一个目的是确保大多数人在最重要的节日不用工作，比如中秋节和农历新年。很多时候，雇主会拒绝员工休假的请求，或告诉那些坚持要休假的人，不必再回来工作。
But in practice, guaranteeing a holiday that happens to fall in the middle of the workweek has often been achieved by requiring people to make up the time by working on weekends before and after those holidays. In schools, children as young as 6 sometimes find themselves having to attend class for seven days in a row.
但在实践中，为了保证一个恰好落在工作周之间的假日，这个制度经常要求人们在节日前后的周末工作以补上工作时间。在学校，甚至是年仅6岁的儿童有时都会发现他们不得不连续上学七天。
The next such mass vacation event is the imminent National Day Golden Week Holiday, from Oct. 1 to 7, when all of China will rest. However, Sunday, Sept. 28, and Saturday, Oct. 11, have been designated as official working days.
下一次这种大规模的休假是即将到来的国庆节黄金周，时间是从10月1日至7日，其间全中国都将休假。但是，9月28日（周日）和10月11日（周六），已被指定为正式工作日。
Public anger with the system was particularly acute this year when the government instructed the country to work on Lunar New Year’s Eve, the biggest holiday in the traditional calendar.
公众对休假制度的不满今年尤为严重，因为政府规定人们要在传统年历中最重要的节日、农历除夕当天工作。
Any changes should move in the direction of privately scheduled, paid holidays, Cai Jiming, a professor at Tsinghua University, was quoted by Xinhua as saying. “Pieced-together vacations might still be in existence for a while, but paid vacations are definitely the way to go,” he said.
新华社援引清华大学教授蔡继明的话说，任何改变都应向自行安排带薪假转变。 “拼凑休假将来难免还得进行一段时间，但带薪休假肯定是未来的方向，”他说。