Six years have passed since the United States economy entered the Great Recession, four and a half since it officially began to recover, but long-term unemployment remains disastrously high. And Republicans have a theory about why this is happening. Their theory is, as it happens, completely wrong. But they’re sticking to it — and as a result, 1.3 million American workers, many of them in desperate financial straits, are set to lose unemployment benefits at the end of December.
距离美国经济步入大衰退已经过去六年了，距离经济正式开始复苏也已过去四年半了，可是，长期失业率仍然灾难性地居高不下。共和党人对个中缘由自有一套理论。事实证明，他们的理论是完全错误的。不过，他们仍然固执己见——结果，130万美国劳动者将于12月底丢掉失业福利，而其中许多人的财务状况本已岌岌可危。
Merry Christmas.
圣诞快乐。
Now, the G.O.P.’s desire to punish the unemployed doesn’t arise solely from bad economics; it’s part of a general pattern of afflicting the afflicted while comforting the comfortable (no to food stamps, yes to farm subsidies). But ideas do matter — as John Maynard Keynes famously wrote, they are “dangerous for good or evil.” And the case of unemployment benefits is an especially clear example of superficially plausible but wrong economic ideas being dangerous for evil.
现如今，共和党惩罚失业者的愿望不仅源于糟糕的经济学理念，还属于其惯常的劫贫济富（对食品券说不，对农业补贴放行）行为的一部分。不过，理念的确关系重大——正如约翰·梅纳德·凯恩斯(John Maynard Keynes)的名言：“无论是好是坏，危险的是思想。”失业福利的问题尤为清晰地展示了，对坏事而言，貌似合理却实质错误的经济理念尤为危险。
Here’s the world as many Republicans see it: unemployment insurance, which generally pays eligible workers between 40 and 50 percent of their previous pay, reduces the incentive to search for a new job. As a result, the story goes, workers stay unemployed longer. In particular, it’s claimed that the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, which lets workers collect benefits beyond the usual limit of 26 weeks, explains why there are four million long-term unemployed workers in America today, up from just one million in 2007.
众多共和党人的世界观是这样的：失业保险通常给合乎申领条件的劳动者发放之前薪水的40%到50%，降低了找新工作的积极性。据说，劳动者因此更长时间地失业。尤其是，该理论宣称，美国的长期失业劳动人口之所以从2007年的仅仅100万飙升到今天的400万，是因为紧急失业补助计划(Emergency Unemployment Compensation)允许他们在惯常的26周失业福利之后仍能获取救济。
Correspondingly, the G.O.P. answer to the problem of long-term unemployment is to increase the pain of the long-term unemployed: Cut off their benefits, and they’ll go out and find jobs. How, exactly, will they find jobs when there are three times as many job-seekers as job vacancies? Details, details.
相应地，共和党提出的长期失业解决方案就是加重长期失业者的痛苦：砍掉他们的福利，这样他们就会出门找工作了。至于他们究竟如何在求职人数三倍于空缺岗位的环境中找到工作呢？那就是细枝末节了。
Proponents of this story like to cite academic research — some of it from Democratic-leaning economists — that seemingly confirms the idea that unemployment insurance causes unemployment. They’re not equally fond of pointing out that this research is two or more decades old, has not stood the test of time, and is irrelevant in any case given our current economic situation.
这种理论的支持者喜欢引用学术研究——其中一些来自倾向于民主党的经济学家。这些研究似乎证实了失业保险会导致失业的说法。不过，他们并不喜欢指出，这些研究起码是20年前做的，没有经受住时间的考验，也完全不适用于我们目前的经济形势。
The view of most labor economists now is that unemployment benefits have only a modest negative effect on job search — and in today’s economy have no negative effect at all on overall employment. On the contrary, unemployment benefits help create jobs, and cutting those benefits would depress the economy as a whole.
现在，多数劳动经济学家认为，失业福利对找工作的负面影响微乎其微——在目前的经济状况下，更是对整体就业没有任何负面影响。正好相反，失业福利有利于创造就业岗位，而削减这种福利会打压宏观经济。
Ask yourself how, exactly, ending unemployment benefits would create more jobs. It’s true that some of the currently unemployed, finding themselves even more desperate than before, might manage to snatch jobs away from those who currently have them. But what would give businesses a reason to employ more workers as opposed to replacing existing workers?
读者请想，砍掉失业福利到底怎么能够创造更多的就业岗位呢？诚然，某些当下失业的人会比之前更加窘迫，或许会从现在有工作的人那里抢走岗位。可是，有什么理由能让企业雇佣更多的人，而不是换掉目前这批人呢？
You might be tempted to argue that more intense competition among workers would lead to lower wages, and that cheap labor would encourage hiring. But that argument involves a fallacy of composition. Cut the wages of some workers relative to those of other workers, and those accepting the wage cuts may gain a competitive edge. Cut everyone’s wages, however, and nobody gains an edge. All that happens is a general fall in income — which, among other things, increases the burden of household debt, and is therefore a net negative for overall employment.
或许有人会忍不住提出，劳动者之间更激烈的竞争会导致工资降低，而廉价的劳动力将鼓励雇佣行为。不过，这种主张包含推理错误。如果削减部分劳动者相对其他人的薪酬，那么，接受减薪的人或许能获得竞争优势。可是，所有人都降薪的话，无人能获取优势。唯一的结果是收入普遍降低，而这会造成各种后果，其中包括增加家庭债务负担，因此对整体就业的净作用为负。
The point is that employment in today’s American economy is limited by demand, not supply. Businesses aren’t failing to hire because they can’t find willing workers; they’re failing to hire because they can’t find enough customers. And slashing unemployment benefits — which would have the side effect of reducing incomes and hence consumer spending — would just make the situation worse.
关键是，在目前的美国经济之下，限制就业的是需求，而非供应。商界之所以没能雇人，不是因为没法找到愿意工作的劳动者，而是因为没法找到足够的客户。大幅削减失业福利——将带来收入降低继而减少消费的副作用——只会雪上加霜。
Still, don’t expect prominent Republicans to change their views, except maybe to come up with additional reasons to punish the unemployed. For example, Senator Rand Paul recently cited research suggesting that the long-term unemployed have a hard time re-entering the work force as a reason to, you guessed it, cut off long-term unemployment benefits. You see, those benefits are actually a “disservice” to the unemployed.
不过，别指望共和党要员改弦更张，他们或许只会变本加厉地提出惩罚失业者的理由。比如，参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)援引长期失业人员难以再入职场的近期研究，作为——已经猜到了吧——砍掉长期失业福利的理由。你看，这些福利实际上对失业者“有害”呢。
The good news, such as it is, is that the White House and Senate Democrats are trying to make an issue of expiring unemployment benefits. The bad news is that they don’t sound willing to make extending benefits a precondition for a budget deal, which means that they aren’t really willing to make a stand.
好消息是，虽然不尽如人意，白宫及民主党参议员正努力在失业福利即将到期的问题上做文章。坏消息是，他们似乎不愿将延长失业福利作为预算协议的一项前提。这就意味着，他们并不愿去实实在在地捍卫它。
So the odds, I’m sorry to say, are that the long-term unemployed will be cut off, thanks to a perfect marriage of callousness — a complete lack of empathy for the unfortunate — with bad economics. But then, hasn’t that been the story of just about everything lately?
我得遗憾地说，长期失业者的福利很可能会被砍掉，因为铁石心肠——对不幸者彻底的冷酷无情——与糟糕的经济理念完美地结合在了一起。话又说回来，最近的每件事不都如此吗？