WASHINGTON — Airstrikes on towns in northern Iraq seized by Islamist militants began late Thursday in what Kurdish and Iraqi officials called the first stage of an American-led intervention to blunt the militants’ advance and provide emergency aid to tens of thousands of refugees.
华盛顿——周四晚些时候，受伊斯兰派武装分子控制的伊拉克北部城镇开始遭到空袭，库尔德和伊拉克官员称，这是由美国领导的干预行动的第一阶段，其目的是阻挠武装分子的推进，为成千上万的难民提供紧急救援。
The Pentagon firmly denied that American forces had begun a bombing campaign. But Pentagon officials said it was possible that allies of the United States, either the Iraqi or Turkish militaries, had conducted the bombing.
美国国防部坚决否认美国军队已经开始进行轰炸。不过，国防部官员表示，发动空袭的可能是美国的盟友伊拉克或土耳其军队。
Kurdish and Iraqi officials attributed the bombing campaign to American forces. An announcement on Kurdish television of what was described as an American intervention prompted street celebrations and horn-honking by residents of towns under seige by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
库尔德和伊拉克官员认为发动空袭的是美国部队。库尔德电视台的一项声明表示这是美国所采取的干预行动，于是在受伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）攻击的城镇，居民纷纷走上街头欢庆，汽车喇叭齐鸣。
Anwar Haji Osman, deputy minister of the pesh merga, the Kurdish military force, said in the televised statement that his forces had been in contact with the Americans and that the bombings had been carried out by fighter jets.
库尔德军队“敢死军”(pesh merga)的副部长安瓦尔·哈吉·奧斯曼(Anwar Haji Osman)在电视声明中称，他的部队一直在与美国军队保持联系，实施轰炸的是战斗机。
Kurdish officials said the bombings had initially targeted ISIS fighters who had seized two towns, Gwer and Mahmour, near the main Kurdish city of Erbil. A top Iraqi official in Baghdad close to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq said that the Americans had consulted with the Iraqi government Thursday night about starting the campaign, the government had agreed and the bombing had begun.
库尔德官员称，轰炸的最初目标是占领葛沃(Gwer)和马穆尔(Mahmour)的ISIS武装人员，这两座城镇位于主要库尔德城市埃尔比勒(Erbil)附近。巴格达一名与伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)关系密切的高层官员称，周四夜间，美国曾与伊拉克政府讨论轰炸事宜，后者表示同意，轰炸随及开始。
Earlier in the day, administration aides had said Mr. Obama was considering airstrikes or airdrops of food and medicine to address a humanitarian crisis among as many as 40,000 members of religious minorities in Iraq, who have been dying of heat and thirst on a mountaintop where they took shelter after death threats from ISIS fighters.
当天早些时候，白宫助手曾表示，奥巴马正在考虑发动空袭，或者空投食物和药物来应对这场人道主义危机。受这场危机影响的是伊拉克的4万名宗教少数派，为了躲避ISIS武装人员，他们逃到了一个山顶，目前正因为炎热和饥渴而奄奄一息。
In meetings with his national security team at the White House on Thursday morning, Mr. Obama weighed a series of options, ranging from dropping humanitarian supplies on Mount Sinjar to mounting military strikes on the fighters from ISIS who are now at the base of the mountain, a senior administration official said.
一名政府高官表示，周四上午，奥巴马在白宫会见他的国家安全团队时，对一系列选择进行了衡量，其中包括向辛贾尔山(Mount Sinjar)投放人道主义救援物资，以及对目前在山脚下的ISIS武装人员进行军事打击等等。
“There could be a humanitarian catastrophe there,” a second administration official said, adding that a decision from Mr. Obama was expected “imminently — this could be a fast-moving train.”
“那里可能会出现一场人道主义灾难，”另一名政府官员表示。这名官员还说，预计奥巴马“马上就要”作出决定——“事情可能会很紧急。”
The administration official said that “the president is weighing both passive and active options,” defining passive action as dropping humanitarian supplies. “More active, we could target the ISIL elements that are besieging the base of the mountain,” he added, using an alternative name for ISIS, the Sunni extremist group that has taken control of much of northern Iraq.
这名政府官员表示，“总统对被动和主动的方案都有所考虑”，他所谓的被动举措就是投放人道救援物资。“如果要采取主动性更强的行动，我们可以对围困山上基地的ISIL军队发动袭击，”他还表示。这里使用的是ISIS的另一个名称，这个逊尼派极端组织已经控制了伊拉克北部大部分地区。
The White House declined to say whether Mr. Obama was weighing airstrikes or airdrops in Iraq, but the press secretary, Josh Earnest, said the United States was disturbed by what he described as “cold and calculated” attacks by ISIS on religious minorities in Iraq.
白宫拒绝透露奥巴马是否正在考虑对伊拉克发动空袭或空投物资，但新闻秘书乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)称，ISIS对伊拉克的宗教少数派“无情和蓄意”的打击，令美国感到不安。
“These actions have exacerbated an already dire crisis, and the situation is nearing a humanitarian catastrophe,” Mr. Earnest told reporters. The campaign of attacks by ISIS, he said, “demonstrates a callous disregard for human rights and is deeply disturbing.”
“这些行动加剧了业已严重的危机，目前的形势接近于一场人道主义灾难，”欧内斯特告诉记者。他说，ISIS发动的大规模袭击，“是对人权的无情漠视，令人深感不安。”
Asked specifically about military options, Mr. Earnest said, “I’m not in a position to rule things on the table or off the table.” But he reiterated that there would be no American combat troops in Iraq and that any military action would be extremely limited.
在被问到有关军事方案的具体问题时，欧内斯特说，“我现在不方便去说哪些选项是可能的，哪些选项不可能。”但他强调说，美国的作战部队不会出现在伊拉克，任何的军事行动都会相当有限。
“There are many problems in Iraq,” he said. “This one is a particularly acute one, because we’re seeing people persecuted because of their ethnic or religious identities.”
“伊拉克存在许多问题，”他说。“目前的问题尤其严重，因为我们正看到，许多人因为自己的种族或宗教身份受到迫害。”
Mr. Earnest added: “There are no American military solutions to the problems in Iraq. These problems can only be solved with Iraqi political solutions.”
欧内斯特接着说：“对于伊拉克的问题，不存在美国的军事解决方案，只能依靠伊拉克的政治解决方案。”
Mr. Obama made no mention of imminent military action as he traveled to Fort Belvoir in the Virginia suburbs on Thursday to sign legislation to overhaul the troubled Department of Veterans Affairs. Top officials were in the meantime gathering at the White House to discuss the possible Iraq action.
奥巴马没有提到会在近期采取军事行动，他周四来到弗吉尼亚郊区的贝尔沃堡，签署了对存在问题的退伍军人事务部(Department of Veterans Affairs)进行整改的法案。与此同时，高层官员聚集在白宫，讨论可能的伊拉克行动。
The administration had been delaying taking any military action against ISIS until there is a new Iraqi government. Both White House and Pentagon officials have said privately that the United States would not intervene militarily until Mr. Maliki stepped down.
美国政府一直在推迟对ISIS采取军事行动，希望等到伊拉克新政府的成立。白宫和五角大楼的官员私下里都表示，在马利基下台前，美国不会对伊拉克实施军事干预。