A Swedish union has set up a hotline for workers to report instances of “mansplaining” as part of a weeklong effort to raise awareness of a certain kind of condescending elocution that men use to explain to women things they already understand.
一个瑞典工会为职场人士设立了一条热线，用于举报“男式说教”(mansplaining)。这是一项为期一周的努力的一部分，旨在引起人们对某种居高临下的讲话方式的注意。男人会用这种方式向女人解释她们已经明白的东西。
Well, actually, it’s not all men who do it, of course, but a certain kind of man. You know him: He is probably getting ready to mansplain this article to you.
嗯，当然不是所有男人都会这么做，而是某类男人。你知道他：他可能正准备用男式说教的方式给你说起这篇文章。
The hotline, which is temporary and open to men and women, was set up by Unionen, a trade union that represents about 600,000 private-sector employees in Sweden and describes itself as the largest white-collar union in the world.
这条同时向男性和女性开放的临时热线由Unionen设立，它代表着瑞典约60万私营企业员工的利益，自称是世界上最大的白领工会。
“Our objective is to contribute to awareness and start a discussion which we hope will be the first step in changing the way we treat each other and talk about each other in the workplace,” Jennie Zetterström, a union spokeswoman, said in an email on Wednesday.
“我们的目标是提高人们的意识，引发讨论，希望这会是改变我们在职场对待和谈论彼此方式的第一步，”工会发言人珍妮·塞特斯特伦(Jennie Zetterström)在周三发来的邮件中表示。
“It’s important to create awareness about how seemingly small things that we do or say add up to a larger issue.”
“让人们意识到我们说和做的一些似乎微不足道的事，会如何累积成更大的问题，这是很重要的。”
Between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. every day this week, members are being encouraged to phone the hotline to talk about mansplaining in their working lives. The calls will be answered by 20 men and women, who are gender experts, authors, academics and others.
工会鼓励其成员在本周每天上午10点至下午4点之间拨打热线，谈论他们工作中遭遇的“男式说教”。这些电话将由20名性别问题方面的专家、作者、学者和其他人员接听，其中有男有女。
“The most important thing when we consulted these people is that they have knowledge and interest in the issue,” Ms. Zetterström said. “Both women and men carrying valuable experience for such a type of activity.”
“我们向他们咨询的时候，最重要的是他们对这个问题有了解、有兴趣，”塞特斯特伦说。“不管是男是女，他们都对这种行为有宝贵的经验。”
So far, Ms. Zetterström said, callers have asked for advice on speaking up when they feel run over by male colleagues, and on how to help female colleagues who are being ignored by men in their working groups.
塞特斯特伦表示，截至目前，打电话进来的人多是寻求建议，比如在感觉被男同事坑害时如何大声说出来，如何帮助工作组里被男性无视的女同事。
Others have asked how to address clients or colleagues who address only the male employees — even when a woman is in charge — and how to address men who get credit for a woman’s work.
也有人询问如何应对只跟男同事打交道的客户或同事——哪怕那里是由一名女性担任主管，还有如何对付抢占女性职员功劳的男同事。
The term mansplaining — a portmanteau of “explain” and “man” — entered popular usage after the author and historian Rebecca Solnit published a 2008 essay titled “Men Explain Things to Me.” She described attending a party at which a man insisted on explaining to her a “very important book” he had heard about and did not immediately seem to absorb that she had written the book.
男式说教这个词是由“说教”(explain)和“男人”(man)两个词组合而成。在作家、历史学家丽贝卡·索尔尼(Rebecca Solnit)于2008年发表《爱说教的男人》(Men Explain Things to Me)一文后，它开始被普遍使用。丽贝卡在文中讲述了有一次参加派对时，一名男子坚持要给她介绍一本他听说过的“非常重要的书”，似乎没有立即明白那本书其实是她写的。
With a knowing roll of the eyes and a deep sigh, women — and some men — recognized the experience Ms. Solnit relayed, and a new word was born.
女人们——也包括一些男性——心照不宣地翻着白眼，深深叹息着对索尔尼描述的那种经历表示认同，一个新词由此诞生了。
Just this year, a man wrote to the advice columnist Amy Dickinson to complain that she had misused the term in her response to an earlier letter. She replied that his letter contained “an almost magical dynamic”: “Others complained that I had misused the word ‘mansplaining,’ but you are the only person to mansplain while doing it.”
就在今年，一名男子给答问专栏作者埃米·迪金森(Amy Dickinson)写信，抱怨她在回复早前一封信件时滥用了这个词。她答复道，他的信里包含“一种近乎神奇的逻辑”：“也有其他人抱怨我滥用‘男式说教’这个词，但你是唯一一个在抱怨这个问题的同时又在进行男式说教的人。”
And last month, the word was featured as an answer on “Jeopardy” (the correct response was given by a male contestant, for $600).
上个月，这个词作为一个问题的答案出现在电视智力竞赛节目《危险边缘》(Jeopardy)上（一位男性参赛者提供了正确的答案，拿走了600美元奖金）。
Predictably, the hotline in Sweden has prompted a strong reaction. The Independent newspaper reported that Unionen’s Facebook page had been inundated with negative comments, “particularly from men.”
不出所料，瑞典设立的这条热线引发了强烈的反应。据《独立报》(Independent)报道，Unionen的Facebook主页已被负面评论淹没，“尤其是来自男性的。”
“Our intention has never been to point fingers or blame all men, our intention has simply been to spark an interest and start a debate at our work places and in society,” Ms. Zetterström said. She added that the debate had been “lively,” and said, “Of course it’s regretful if someone feels offended.”
“我们的目的从来都不是谴责或怪罪所有男性，我们只是想在我们的工作场所和社会上激发兴趣，引发讨论，”塞特斯特伦表示。她还提到，这场辩论“非常热烈”，“当然如果有人感觉受到冒犯，我们深表遗憾。”
But the union says it hopes the hotline raises awareness of gender discrimination in the workplace and, in doing so, perhaps helps to alleviate it.
不过，该工会也表示，它希望热线能引发人们对职场性别歧视的注意，或许能由此帮助减轻这一问题。
“Obviously not all men subject all women to mansplaining all of the time,” wrote Peter Tai Christensen, one of the gender experts who will be manning the phone lines. “That would be an absurd assertion and not based in reality.
“显然，不是所有男人都时时刻刻对女性进行男式说教，”将负责接听热线电话的性别专家之一彼得·泰·克里斯滕森(Peter Tai Christensen)写道。“那会是十分荒唐的论断，没有现实基础。”
“But enough women are subjected to it by enough men for it to be a problem that warrants being addressed, discussed and resolved.”
“但是目前有不少女性遭遇不少男性的说教，这足以让它成为一个应该被提出、谈论和解决的问题。”