The hint by Emperor Akihito of Japan that he would like to abdicate challenges something bigger than the laws requiring him to serve until his death and questions over succession.
日本明仁天皇希望退位的暗示，挑战的是比要求他终生在位的法律和继位问题更大的东西。
Emperor Akihito was also grappling, as he has since his reign began in 1989, with a problem that has defined his office throughout Japan’s post-World War II era. The emperor is meant to bridge, and yet often embodies, the contradiction between two national identities: a pacifist democracy that officially rejects the imperial past, and a lingering sense of identity that is tied to that past.
正如他自从1989年登基以来所做的那样，明仁天皇也一直在设法解决二战结束后定义战后日本皇室的一个自始至终存在的问题。天皇的作用是弥补两种国家身份之间的矛盾，但却往往体现了这一矛盾。这两种身份之一是正式拒绝帝国主义的过去、采用和平主义的民主制度，之二则是与那个过去密切相连的缠绵认同感。
His televised address on Monday reflected this paradox. The modern emperorship was designed, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, to be the centerpiece of Japan’s imperial ideology. That ideology, which culminated in wartime atrocities, required a godlike emperor who could be worshiped as the literal embodiment of the nation. Today’s law against abdication is a legacy of this divine status — how could a deity ever resign?
他周一发表的电视讲话反映了这一矛盾。19世纪和20世纪初，日本的现代皇室被定位为大日本帝国意识形态的核心。以战时暴行告终的这个意识形态要求，有一位可被作为国家的真实体现而受崇拜的上帝般的天皇。现行的不许天皇生前退位的法律，是这个神圣身份遗留下来的东西：神怎么可能辞职呢？
But Emperor Akihito could not openly ask for this law to be amended because, in 1947, the victorious United States imposed a new Constitution on Japan that barred the emperor from intervening in politics.
但是，明仁天皇不可能公开要求修改法律，因为战胜国美国在1947年为日本制定的新宪法禁止天皇干预政治。
This was part of a fateful decision the Americans made in Japan, which they occupied for seven years after World War II: Rather than dismantling the fascist regime entirely, as they had in Germany, they would keep the emperor and other elements in place, hoping to use them to legitimize their rule.
第二次世界大战后，美国占领了日本七年，美国人在日本做出的重大决定之一是：不像他们在德国所做的那样，彻底废除法西斯政权，美国人把日本皇室及其他元素保留了下来，希望利用这些东西来使其统治合法化。
The United States, focused on the Cold War, wanted to cement Japan as a friendly democracy. It feared that forcing the Japanese to confront their war crimes and reject the beloved emperor could send them into the Soviets’ arms.
美国当时关注的是冷战，希望把日本打造为一个友好的民主国家。美国担心，迫使日本正视其战争罪行、拒绝接受受国人爱戴的天皇，可能会把日本推向苏联的怀抱。
American occupation leaders also acted out of racial animus, avoiding fuller reforms because they “regarded the Japanese as childlike people, prone to savagery if not taken firmly in hand,” the historian Ian Buruma wrote in his 2003 book, “Inventing Japan.” Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who led the occupation, said the Japanese were not a “mature race” like the Germans.
历史学家伊恩·布鲁玛(Ian Buruma)在他2003年出版的《发明日本》(Inventing Japan)一书中写道，美国占领军领导人这样做，也出于种族敌意，他们避免更全面的改革，因为他们“把日本人当成孩子般的人来对待，认为如不严加管教，就容易有残暴行为。”占领军总司令道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟将军(Gen. Douglas MacArthur)说，日本人不像德国人那样是一个“成熟的民族”。
The occupiers allowed Japan to develop an expedient myth that its people and its emperor — officially considered synonymous — had been innocent victims rather than willful perpetrators of the militarism that the new Constitution rejected.
占领军允许日本制造了一个作为权宜之计的神话，那就是，日本人民和日本天皇（两者在官方意义上等同）都是被新宪法拒绝的军国主义的无辜受害者，而不是军国主义的有意作恶者。
The nation, then, was pushed into this new, democratic identity without ever having to fully reject its old self-conception — and the emperor was remade hastily, and to mixed effect, from the ultimate symbol of Japanese ultranationalism to a vessel for the opposite ideals of liberalism and pacifism.
这样一来，日本就被赋予了一个新的、民主制度的身份，而不必彻底与其陈旧的自我概念决裂，天皇被匆匆地改头换面，从日本极端民族主义的终极象征，变为与之相反的自由主义与和平主义理念的化身，其结果可想而知。
That policy turned out to be a mistake, said Carol Gluck, a Columbia University historian who studies Japan, because it relied so heavily on repurposing, and therefore cementing, imperial thinking.
那个政策被证明是错误的，研究日本的哥伦比亚大学历史学家卡罗尔·格鲁克(Carol Gluck)说，因为它严重依赖于把帝国思维稍加修改就加以利用，结果反而固化了帝国思维。
“They took the same emperor, took him out of his white uniform, put him in a dark suit and a Hamburg hat, and said, ‘The emperor is the symbol of the state and the unity of the people,’ ” Ms. Gluck said. “He’s still the same emperor. He doesn’t know how to behave differently.”
“他们把同一位天皇拿来，让他换下白色的制服，给他穿上深色的西装、戴上洪堡毡帽，然后说，‘天皇是国家的象征，代表人民的团结，’”格鲁克说。“他还是那个天皇。他不知道怎样做出不同的举止。”
That emperor, Hirohito, who throughout the war had been synonymous with the extremes of imperial Japan, remained in office until his death in 1989. The Japanese, for a half-century, were pulled between two contradictory messages: The old ways had been a mistake, they were told, and yet the man most associated with those ways remained a revered national figurehead, visible and celebrated daily.
那是裕仁天皇，他在整个战争期间是大日本帝国极端主义的代名词，他的皇位一直保留到他于1989年去世。在半个世纪的时间里，日本人一直处于两个相互矛盾信息的拉扯之中：他们被告知，老路是错误的，但是，与那条老路最有关联的人却仍是受人尊敬的国家象征，每天都能看到他的形象、听到他的名字。
That tension has played out repeatedly since, in heated debates over recognizing war crimes, the persistence of imperial shrines that memorialize war heroes and war criminals alike in quasi-worship and the controversy over Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to make Japan a “normal” country by loosening restrictions on the military.
这种紧张关系后来不断重现，表现在就承认战争罪行问题而展开的激烈辩论中，表现在长期存在的把战争英雄和战犯一起以类似崇拜的方式供奉的帝国神社中，表现在安倍晋三首相通过放宽军事限制把日本变为一个“正常”国家的努力中。
When Emperor Hirohito died in 1989, he passed the throne to his son, Akihito, who inherited a position that had come to primarily represent neither militarism nor pacifism, neither the past nor the present, but the unresolved tension between the two, the embodiment of a national identity crisis too painful and awkward to confront head-on.
裕仁天皇1989年去世后，他的皇位传给了儿子明仁。明仁天皇所继承的位置，大体上已经既不代表军国主义、也不代表和平主义，既不代表过去、也不代表现在，而是代表两者之间悬而未决的紧张关系，代表一种过于痛苦、从而不可正视的国家身份危机。
Unlike his father, Emperor Akihito has, by all appearances, dedicated himself to untangling those contradictions.
所有迹象表明，与父亲不同，明仁天皇一直在致力于解决这一矛盾。
Barely a year into Emperor Akihito’s reign, in January 1990, the mayor of Nagasaki violated a national taboo by saying Hirohito had borne some responsibility for imperial crimes. When a Japanese ultranationalist shot and badly wounded the mayor, Emperor Akihito traveled to Nagasaki to show solidarity with the mayor, who had criticized the emperor’s father.
1990年1月，明仁天皇继位还不到一年，长崎市市长就违反了一个国家禁忌，他说裕仁对大日本帝国的罪行负有一定的责任。当一名日本极端民族主义分子向长崎市长开枪，造成其重伤后，明仁天皇亲自到长崎表示声援曾经批评自己父亲的市长。
In subsequent years, Emperor Akihito ml">acknowledged Japan’s indebtedness to Korean culture and his own Korean roots — another taboo in a country that has long treated Koreans as inferior. Most controversially, he expressed regret for Japan’s wartime abuses abroad. A 1998 profile in The Atlantic credited him with “sharpening and deepening the public expression of Japanese remorse for Japan’s ravaging of China and its people during the Second World War.”
在接下来的几年中，明仁天皇承认了朝鲜文化对日本的影响，以及自己有部分朝鲜血统，这在日本也是一个禁忌，因为日本长期以来把朝鲜族作为劣等国民来对待。最有争议的是，他对日本二战期间在海外的暴行表示了遗憾。《大西洋》月刊在1998年发表的一篇特写中称，明仁天皇“在明确和深化有关日本在第二次世界大战期间对中国和中国人民所犯暴行的本国内疚的公开表达”作了贡献。
Like Nixon going to China, only the emperor could so openly confront this imperial history. Even more than that, Emperor Akihito has been “monarchizing” the emperorship, in Ms. Gluck’s words, making it more akin to European monarchies. By making his role “congruent with Japan’s democratic institutions,” she suggested, he is probably hoping to nudge Japan toward its new, democratic identity and away from its past.
正如尼克松访问中国一样，只有天皇才能如此公开地面对大日本帝国的历史。他做的甚至不止这些，用格鲁克的话说，明仁天皇已把天皇的位置“君主化”，使其更像欧洲的国王。格鲁克暗示，天皇通过把自己的角色变为“与日本的民主体制一致”，他可能希望把日本进一步推向其新的民主身份，让其远离过去。
Emperor Akihito, she pointed out, was 11 years old when the war ended and Japan endured a brief but traumatic period of devastation and poverty, with millions left homeless and some estimates finding that the country had lost one third of its wealth. This was how Emperor Akihito experienced the glorious imperial era whose mantle he would inherit and seek to reform.
格鲁克指出，战争结束时，明仁只有11岁，日本经历了一个虽然短暂、但充满毁灭与贫困的创伤期，数百人无家可归，有些估计认为，战争让日本损失了国家财富的三分之一。这就是明仁所经历的辉煌帝国时代，他后来继承了皇位，并寻求进行改革。
But the emperor, like his nation, is still a prisoner of the unresolved contradictions and unconfronted history that, while often expressed through the remaining whispers of what was once emperor worship, were always larger than this one office. For all his power, when it came to seeking his own retirement, he was reduced to public begging.
但天皇与他的国家一样，仍是尚未解决的矛盾与未能面对的历史的囚徒，尽管这种历史往往通过残留的、曾经是天皇崇拜的窃窃之声表达出来，但总还是比皇室本身要大。尽管天皇有很大的象征力，但在寻求自己退休一事上，他却陷入了向公众求情的境地。