In 1786, the cloth workers of Leeds, a wool-industry center in northern England, issued a protest against the growing use of “scribbling” machines, which were taking over a task formerly performed by skilled labor. “How are those men, thus thrown out of employ to provide for their families?” asked the petitioners. “And what are they to put their children apprentice to?”
1786年，在英格兰北部的羊毛产业中心利兹，纺织工人们发起了一场抗议，反对工厂越来越多地使用“粗织机”取代之前由熟练劳动力承担的工作。“那些因此失业的工人该怎样供养家庭呢？”抗议者们质问道，“他们该让孩子们去学什么手艺呢？”
Those weren’t foolish questions. Mechanization eventually — that is, after a couple of generations — led to a broad rise in British living standards. But it’s far from clear whether typical workers reaped any benefits during the early stages of the Industrial Revolution; many workers were clearly hurt. And often the workers hurt most were those who had, with effort, acquired valuable skills — only to find those skills suddenly devalued.
这些问题并不愚蠢。在几代人之后，机械化最终使英国生活水平获得了普遍提高。但是我们仍然不清楚，在工业革命早期阶段，一般工人是否从中获得了任何收益；很多工人显然受到了伤害。而且受伤害最严重者，往往是那些努力掌握宝贵技能的工人——结果他们发现这些技能突然贬值了。
So are we living in another such era? And, if we are, what are we going to do about it?
那么，我们正处于另一个这样的时代吗？如果是，我们要对此做些什么呢？
Until recently, the conventional wisdom about the effects of technology on workers was, in a way, comforting. Clearly, many workers weren’t sharing fully — or, in many cases, at all — in the benefits of rising productivity; instead, the bulk of the gains were going to a minority of the work force. But this, the story went, was because modern technology was raising the demand for highly educated workers while reducing the demand for less educated workers. And the solution was more education.
直到最近，关于技术对工人的影响的传统观念，从某种程度上讲，都让人感到宽慰。显然，很多工人没有充分享受到——或者，在很多情况下，根本没有享受到——生产力提升带来的好处；事实上，劳动阶层中的少数人获得了大部分好处。但是这种情况，传统观念说，是因为现代技术提高了企业对受教育程度高的劳动者的需要，减少了对受教育程度较低的劳动者的需求。而解决办法在于接受更多的教育。
Now, there were always problems with this story. Notably, while it could account for a rising gap in wages between those with college degrees and those without, it couldn’t explain why a small group — the famous “one percent” — was experiencing much bigger gains than highly educated workers in general. Still, there may have been something to this story a decade ago.
不过，这种说法一直都存在问题。值得注意的一点是，虽然它可以解释有大学学历和没有大学学历的人之间，为什么工资差距在拉大，但它无法解释为什么跟一般的受过良好教育的人相比，一小撮人的收益——著名的“百分之一”——却出现了远远更大的增长。不过在十年前，这种说法也还是有些道理。
Today, however, a much darker picture of the effects of technology on labor is emerging. In this picture, highly educated workers are as likely as less educated workers to find themselves displaced and devalued, and pushing for more education may create as many problems as it solves.
但是，现如今，技术对劳动力的影响呈现出了一幅更加黯淡的画面。在这幅画面中，受教育程度较高的劳动者被取代和贬值的可能性，跟受教育程度较低的劳动者差不多，而接受更多的教育也是利弊互现。
I’ve noted before that the nature of rising inequality in America changed around 2000. Until then, it was all about worker versus worker; the distribution of income between labor and capital — between wages and profits, if you like — had been stable for decades. Since then, however, labor’s share of the pie has fallen sharply. As it turns out, this is not a uniquely American phenomenon. A new report from the International Labor Organization points out that the same thing has been happening in many other countries, which is what you’d expect to see if global technological trends were turning against workers.
我此前已经说过，在2000年左右，美国日益加剧的不平等发生了性质上的改变。在那之前，它不外乎是劳动者和劳动者之间的不平等；资本与劳动者之间（也可以说是工资与利润之间）收入分配比例的稳定状态已经保持了几十年之久。但是，自那之后，劳动者的收入份额已经大幅下滑。事实证明，这种现象不是美国独有的。国际劳工组织(International Labor Organization)新发布的一份报告指出，在很多其他国家也出现了同样的现象。如果全球技术发展的趋势正在转而与劳动者为敌，那么看到这样的状况也是意料中事。
And some of those turns may well be sudden. The McKinsey Global Institute recently released a report on a dozen major new technologies that it considers likely to be “disruptive,” upsetting existing market and social arrangements. Even a quick scan of the report’s list suggests that some of the victims of disruption will be workers who are currently considered highly skilled, and who invested a lot of time and money in acquiring those skills. For example, the report suggests that we’re going to be seeing a lot of “automation of knowledge work,” with software doing things that used to require college graduates. Advanced robotics could further diminish employment in manufacturing, but it could also replace some medical professionals.
有些转变可能非常突然。麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)最近发布的一份报告，罗列了它认为可能具有“颠覆性”的十几项重大的新技术。这些技术正在打破现有的市场和社会安排。即便只是快速浏览一下这份报告的列表，你也会发现这种颠覆的受害者，将会是目前被认为技能高超，并且投入了大量的时间和金钱来获取这些技能的劳动者。例如，该报告指出，我们将会大量看到“知识工作自动化”的现象，由软件来承担以前需要高校毕业生才能做的工作。先进的机器人技术不仅可能会进一步削减制造业的就业岗位，而且也可以替代一些专业医护人员。
So should workers simply be prepared to acquire new skills? The woolworkers of 18th-century Leeds addressed this issue back in 1786: “Who will maintain our families, whilst we undertake the arduous task” of learning a new trade? Also, they asked, what will happen if the new trade, in turn, gets devalued by further technological advance?
那么，劳动者应该一心做好掌握新技能的准备吗？18世纪利兹的毛纺工人早在1786年就提出了这个问题：“当我们辛苦费力地学习新手艺的时候，谁来供养我们的家庭？”他们还问道：如果持续的技术进步又使得新手艺贬值了，那又该怎么办呢？
And the modern counterparts of those woolworkers might well ask further, what will happen to us if, like so many students, we go deep into debt to acquire the skills we’re told we need, only to learn that the economy no longer wants those skills?
这些羊毛工人的现代翻版可能还会进一步发问：有这么多的学生，为了掌握据说需要拥有的技能而背上债务，结果却发现市场不再需要那些技能，如果这种事发生在我们身上，该怎么办呢？
Education, then, is no longer the answer to rising inequality, if it ever was (which I doubt).
因此，教育已经不再是解决不平等加剧问题的方法，即使它曾经是（我怀疑它过去也不是）。
So what is the answer? If the picture I’ve drawn is at all right, the only way we could have anything resembling a middle-class society — a society in which ordinary citizens have a reasonable assurance of maintaining a decent life as long as they work hard and play by the rules — would be by having a strong social safety net, one that guarantees not just health care but a minimum income, too. And with an ever-rising share of income going to capital rather than labor, that safety net would have to be paid for to an important extent via taxes on profits and/or investment income.
那么答案是什么呢？如果我勾勒的这副画面是正确的，那么，我们要想拥有一个类似于中产阶层社会的局面——在这样的社会中，普通公民只要努力工作，按规则行事，就能拥有维持体面生活的合理保障——唯一的方法就是构建一张强大的社会安全网，不仅可以为大家提供医疗保障，也能让他们获得一份最低收入。随着资本而不是劳动者获得的收入份额越来越大，构建这张安全网的资金来源必须在很大程度上依靠对利润和投资收入征税。
I can already hear conservatives shouting about the evils of “redistribution.” But what, exactly, would they propose instead?
我已经可以听到保守派大声疾呼“再分配”的害处了。但是，他们究竟又能提出何种方案来代替呢？