An activist interrupted President Obama on Wednesday at a White House event celebrating L.G.B.T. Pride Month to demand an end to the deportation of L.G.B.T. immigrants. The activist was escorted from the room amid a chorus of boos and jeers from the assembled guests.
在白宫为庆祝LGBT（女同、男同、双性恋及变性者的简称——译注）自豪月而举办的周三活动中，一位活跃分子打断了奥巴马总统的讲话，要求政府停止将LGBT移民递解出境。在出席活动者的嘘声和奚落声中，该活跃分子被人从现场护送出去。
The activist, Jennicet Gutiérrez, who is transgender and says she is in the country illegally, interrupted Mr. Obama shortly after he began speaking, calling from the back of the room, “President Obama, release all L.G.B.T.Q. immigrants from detention and stop all deportations!”
这位名叫詹尼赛特·古铁雷斯(Jennicet Gutiérrez)的活跃分子是变性人，自称在美国无合法身份，在奥巴马刚开始讲话不久就打断了总统，古铁雷斯从房间的后面喊道，“奥巴马总统，释放所有被关押的LGBTQ（Q是性倾向不明的简称——译注）移民，停止所有的递解出境！”
President Obama displayed little patience with the heckler, telling her, “You’re in my house” before having her removed.
奥巴马总统对这位闹事者颇为不耐烦，对她说，“你是在我的家里，”然后让人把她带了出去。
“Shame on you, you shouldn’t be doing this,” he said, according to video of the incident posted to YouTube by Reuters. “Can we escort this person out? You can either stay and be quiet or we’ll have to take you out.”
据路透社在YouTube上发布的事件录像，奥巴马说，“你不知耻，你不该这样做。有人能护送这位出去吗？你想留下来的话，就要保持安静，否则我们将不得不把你请出去。”
The crowd quickly turned on Ms. Gutiérrez, drowning out her chants with shushing noises and shouting of their own, including chants of the president’s name. One man shouted, “Shame on you!” Another yelled: “This is not for you! This is for all of us!”
在场的听众很快转为攻击古铁雷斯，用要她安静的嘘声以及自发的喊声淹没了她的声音，包括喊总统名字的做法。一名男子大声说道，“你不要脸！”另一名则喊道：“这不是只为你一个人的！这是为我们所有人的！”
In a statement, GetEqual and Familia QTLM, activist groups of which Ms. Gutiérrez is a member, said that her protest was held on behalf of “some 75 transgender detainees” who they said were exposed to abuse in the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
古铁雷斯是活跃团体GetEqual和Familia QTLM的成员，这两个组织在一份声明中说，古铁雷斯的抗议代表了“被关押的约75名变性人”，这两个组织称被关押者曾遭受移民和海关执法局(Immigration and Customs Enforcement)的虐待。
“There is no pride in how L.G.B.T.Q. and transgender immigrants are treated in this country,” Ms. Gutiérrez said in a statement. “If the president wants to celebrate with us, he should release the L.G.B.T.Q. immigrants locked up in detention centers immediately.”
“这个国家对待LGBTQ及变性移民的方式一点也让人自豪，”古铁雷斯在一份声明中说。“如果总统想和我们一起庆祝的话，他应该马上释放关押在拘留中心的LGBTQ移民。”
On Tuesday, 35 members of Congress sent an open letter to the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to express their concern for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender detainees held by the immigration agency, writing that they are “extremely vulnerable to abuse, including sexual assault.”
周二，35名国会成员给国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)部长发了一封公开信，以表达他们对被移民机构关押的女同、男同、双性恋及变性者境况的担忧，他们在信中写作，这些人“非常容易受到包括性侵犯在内的伤害。”
Mr. Obama has been heckled by immigration activists before but has appeared more willing to engage with them. During a speech in November on his executive order to halt the deportation of undocumented individuals whose children were born in the United States, Mr. Obama told a group of hecklers, “What you’re not paying attention to is, I just took an action to change the law.”
奥巴马以前曾受到过移民活跃人士的责问，但对他们表现了更愿意对话的态度。去年11月，奥巴马发布了行政命令，暂停将无合法身份的个人递解出境的做法，如果这些人的子女是在美国出生的，在当时发表讲话时，奥巴马对一群质问者说，“你们没有注意到的是，我刚刚采取了一个改变法律的行动。”