If you were to walk into my sister’s house in Los Angeles, you’d hear a bit of yelling from time to time. “Luca! Get off Minecraft! Luca, are you on Minecraft again? Luca! Enough with the Minecraft!”
假如走进我姐姐位于洛杉矶的房子，你会不时听到这样的叫喊，“卢卡(Luca)！退出《我的世界》(Minecraft)！卢卡，你是不是又在玩《我的世界》？卢卡！别再玩《我的世界》了！”
Luca is my 8-year-old nephew. Like millions of other children his age, Luca is obsessed with the video game Minecraft. Actually, obsessed might be an understated way to explain a child’s idée fixe with the game. And my sister, whom you’ve probably guessed is the person doing all that yelling, is a typical parent of a typical Minecraft-playing child: she’s worried it might be rotting his brain.
卢卡是我外甥，今年8岁。和不计其数的这个年龄段的孩子一样，卢卡对电子游戏《我的世界》欲罢不能。实际上，用“欲罢不能”来形容一个孩子对这款游戏的偏执程度，还算是轻描淡写了。而那个大喊大叫的人，你可能猜到了，就是我姐姐。作为一个玩《我的世界》的典型孩子背后的一位典型家长，她担心这款游戏会毁掉他的脑子。
For those who have never played Minecraft, it’s relatively simple. The game looks a bit crude because it doesn’t have realistic graphics. Instead, it’s built in eight-bit, a computer term that means the graphics look blocky, like giant, digital Lego pieces.
对于从未接触过《我的世界》的人而言，这款游戏还算比较简单。由于没有逼真的图像，这款游戏看起来有点粗糙。它是一款8比特电子游戏，“8比特”是一个电脑术语，意味着图像看上去全是方块，好像大大的数字化的乐高(Lego)颗粒。
Unlike other video games, there are few if any instructions in Minecraft. Instead, like the name suggests, the goal of the game is to craft, or build, structures in these eight-bit worlds, and figuring things out on your own is a big part of it. And parents, it’s not terribly violent. Sure, you can kill a few zombies while playing in the game’s “survival mode.” But in its “creative mode,” Minecraft is about building, exploration, creativity and even collaboration.
与其他电子游戏不同，《我的世界》几乎没有什么游戏说明。相反，就像游戏名称所暗示的那样，这款游戏的目标是在8比特的世界里精心营造建筑物，独立思考是其中很重要的一部分。诸位家长，这款游戏也并不会十分暴力。当然，在“生存模式”(survival mode)下玩这款游戏时，可能要杀掉几个僵尸。但在“创造模式”(creative mode)下，《我的世界》只关乎构建、探索、创造乃至协作。
The game was first demonstrated by Markus Persson, a Swedish video game programmer and designer known as Notch, in 2009 and released to the public in November 2011. Today, the game runs on various devices, including desktop computers, Google Android smartphones, Apple iOS and the Microsoft Xbox. There are thousands of mods, or modifications, for the game, that allow people to play in prebuilt worlds, like a replica of Paris (Eiffel Tower included) or an ancient Mayan civilization.
人称Notch的瑞典电子游戏程序员和设计师马库斯·佩尔松(Markus Persson)在2009年首次展示了这款游戏。2011年11月，这款游戏向公众发布。如今，在各种设备上都能运行《我的世界》，包括个人电脑、谷歌Android智能手机、苹果iOS设备，以及微软的Xbox。基于《我的世界》的游戏模组有数千种，这些模组可以让人们在已经构建好的世界里玩，比如巴黎的翻版（包括埃菲尔铁塔）或者古玛雅文明当中。
While parents — my sister included — might worry that all these pixels and the occasional zombie might be bad for children, a lot of experts say they shouldn’t fret.
虽然包括我姐姐在内的家长们可能担心，所有这些像素化的图案和偶尔出现的僵尸会对孩子造成不良影响，但许多专家都表示，他们不必为此发愁。
Earlier this year, for example, a school in Stockholm made Minecraft compulsory for 13-year-old students. “They learn about city planning, environmental issues, getting things done, and even how to plan for the future,” said Monica Ekman, a teacher at the Viktor Rydberg school.
比如，今年早些时候，《我的世界》被瑞典的一所学校列为了13岁学生的必修科目。维克多·吕德伯格学校(Viktor Rydberg)的教师莫妮卡·埃克曼(Monica Ekman)说，“他们可以从中了解城市规划和环境问题，了解如何完成任务，乃至如何对未来做规划。”
Around the world, Minecraft is being used to educate children on everything from science to city planning to speaking a new language, said Joel Levin, co-founder and education director at the company TeacherGaming. TeacherGaming runs MinecraftEdu, which is intended to help teachers use the game with students.
TeacherGaming公司联合创始人及教育主管乔尔·莱文(Joel Levin)说，在世界各地，人们正在利用《我的世界》教给孩子们各种知识，从科学到城市规划，再到一门新语言，不一而足。TeacherGaming公司运营着《我的世界》教育版(Minecraft Edu)，旨在帮助教师使用这款游戏进行教学。
A history teacher in Australia set up “quest missions” where students can wander through and explore ancient worlds. An English-language teacher in Denmark told children they could play Minecraft collectively in the classroom but with one caveat: they were allowed to communicate both orally and through text only in English. A science teacher in California has set up experiments in Minecraft to teach students about gravity.
澳大利亚的一位历史教师创建了一些“探索任务”，学生可以信步其中，探索古代世界。丹麦的一位英语老师告诉孩子们，他们可以在教室里一起玩《我的世界》，但有一点需要注意：只能用英语进行口头和文字上的沟通。为了向学生传授有关重力的知识，加利福尼亚的一位科学课教师还把实验搬进了《我的世界》中。
Mr. Levin said that in addition to classroom exercises, children were learning the digital skills they would need as they got older.
莱文称，除了进行课堂练习，孩子们还可以学到他们年纪再大一点时能用上的数字技能。
“Kids are getting into middle school and high school and having some ugly experiences on Facebook and other social networks without an understanding of how to interact with people online,” he said. “With Minecraft, they are developing that understanding at a very early age.”
“孩子们升入初中或者高中时，如果不明白怎样和别人在线互动，在Facebook以及其他社交网络上的体验会很糟糕，”他说，“有了《我的世界》，他们在年纪很小的时候，就能对此有所了解。”
While there are no known neuroscience studies of Minecraft’s effect on children’s brains, research has shown video games can have a positive impact on children.
就目前所知，关于《我的世界》对儿童大脑的影响，还没有过神经科学方面的研究。但已经有研究表明，电子游戏可以对儿童产生正面的影响。
A study by S.R.I. International, a Silicon Valley research group that specializes in technology, found that game-based play could raise cognitive learning for students by as much as 12 percent and improve hand-eye coordination, problem-solving ability and memory.
SRI国际研究所(SRI International)的一项研究显示，玩电子游戏可以让学生的认知学习成效提高多达12%，并且让手眼协调能力、问题解决能力和记忆力得到改善。该研究所是硅谷的一家研究机构，专门从事技术方面的研究。
Games like Minecraft also encourage what researchers call “parallel play,” where children are engrossed in their game but are still connected through a server or are sharing the same screen. And children who play games could even become better doctors. No joke. Neuroscientists performed a study at Iowa State University that found that surgeons performed better, and were more accurate on the operating table, when they regularly played video games.
诸如《我的世界》之类的游戏还能鼓励孩子们开展研究人员所说的“平行游戏”(parallel play)。孩子们虽然沉醉于自己的游戏之中，但仍然可以通过服务器保持联系，或者共享同一块屏幕。玩电子游戏的孩子甚至可以成为更出色的医生。这不是开玩笑，神经科学家在艾奥瓦州立大学(Iowa State University)进行的一项研究表明，外科医生如果时常玩电子游戏，工作表现会更出色，动手术时会更精准。
“Minecraft extends kids’ spatial reasoning skills, construction skills and understanding of planning,” said Eric Klopfer, a professor and the director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Scheller Teacher Education Program. “In many ways, it’s like a digital version of Lego.”
“《我的世界》可以增强孩子的空间推理技能、构建技能，以及对规划的理解，”麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)施勒教师教育计划(Scheller Teacher Education Program)负责人、埃里克·克勒普弗(Eric Klopfer)教授说，“在很多方面，它就像是数字化版本的乐高积木。”
Professor Klopfer suggested that if parents were worried about the game, they should simply play it with their children. He said he set up a server in his house so his children’s friends could play together and he could monitor their behavior and then explain that some actions, even in virtual worlds, are unethical — like destroying someone’s Minecraft house, or calling them a bad name.
克勒普弗教授建议，家长如果对这个游戏感到担心，只要和孩子一起玩就行了。他说他在家里架设了一台服务器，这样他的孩子们就能和朋友一起玩了，而他还可以监督他们的行为，随后还可以向他们解释，有些行为即便在虚拟世界里也是不道德的，比如骂人，或者毁坏别人在《我的世界》里建造的房屋。
But Professor Klopfer warned that, as with anything, there was — probably to my nephew’s chagrin — such as thing as too much Minecraft.
不过，克勒普弗教授也发出了警告，就像任何事情一样，玩《我的世界》也该有个限度。我外甥听到这话大概不会高兴。
“While the game is clearly good for kids, it doesn’t mean there should be no limits,” he said. “As with anything, I don’t want my kids to do any one thing for overly extended periods of time. Whether Legos or Minecraft; having limits is an important part their learning.”
“这款游戏显然对孩子有益，但这并不意味着玩起来可以没完没了，”他说，“我不希望自己的孩子花过长的时间做任何一件事。玩任何游戏，不论是乐高还是《我的世界》，有所节制也是他们要学习的重要内容之一。”
Many children would happily ignore that little warning if their parents let them.
如果家长允许的话，许多孩子玩得开心，就会无视这个小小的警告。
Last weekend, my sister saw Luca on his computer with what appeared to be Minecraft on the screen. “Luca, I told you, you can’t play Minecraft anymore,” she said.
上周末，我姐姐看到卢卡守在他的电脑前，屏幕上似乎是《我的世界》。她说，“卢卡，我跟你说过，不能再玩《我的世界》了。”
“I’m not playing Minecraft, mama,” he replied. “I’m watching videos on YouTube of other people playing Minecraft.”
“我没玩《我的世界》，妈，”他回答道，“我是在YouTube上看别人玩《我的世界》的视频。”