WASHINGTON — American and other Western diplomats on Monday managed to salvage the long-awaited peace conference on Syria, which had seemed on the verge of unraveling before it even began when Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, issued an unexpected invitation to Iran to attend.
华盛顿——本周一，美国等西方国家的外交官设法挽救了让人期待已久的叙利亚和平会议。此前，由于联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)出人意料地给伊朗发出了与会邀请，导致这场会议在开始前就已陷入破裂的边缘。
The possible presence of the Iranians infuriated Syrian opposition leaders who said they would not attend the conference. But after a day of intensive consultations in which American officials made clear their unhappiness with Mr. Ban’s move, Iran was disinvited and diplomats affirmed that the conference would begin in Switzerland on Wednesday. The 24-hour controversy, while a diversion from the main issues about Syria’s future that will be on the table there, seemed a fitting prelude for what even the most optimistic American diplomats say will be prolonged, grinding and uncertain negotiations in which the combatants in the Syrian civil war are scheduled to meet face to face for the first time.
伊朗人可能出席会议的消息激怒了叙利亚反对派领导人。他们表示，自己不会参会。不过，在长达一天的密集磋商后，潘基文取消了对伊朗的邀请。美国官员在磋商中明确表示，他们对潘基文的举动感到不快。外交官们确认，会议将于本周三在瑞士召开。尽管这场24小时的争端将人们的注意力从谈判关于叙利亚前途问题的主题上引开，但它似乎为此次会议奏响了最恰如其分的序曲。哪怕最乐观的美国外交官都认为，此次会议将是一次旷日持久、艰苦卓绝、结局难料的谈判。按照计划，叙利亚内战的参战各方将在本次会议上首次碰面。
“I don’t think that anyone who’s dealt with Syrian officials has any false expectations of rapid progress,” a senior official at the State Department said on Monday, in what turned out to be one of the day’s more optimistic assessments. “This is the beginning of a process. It is not going to be fast.”
美国国务院的一名高官于本周一表示，“我不认为，与叙利亚打过交道的哪个官员会对此次会议取得快速进展抱有任何错误的预期。这是过程的开始。事情的进展不会很快。”事实证明，他的表述是当日甚为乐观的评价之一。
It is, in fact, hard to imagine a peace conference that has been convened under less propitious circumstances.
实际上，难以想象有哪个和谈会是在时机更为不利的背景下召开的。
Secretary of State John Kerry announced during a trip to Moscow in May 2013 that the United States wanted to convene the peace conference, along with Russia, an idea first discussed the year before in Geneva. But since that announcement, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has strengthened his military position, the fractious opposition has become more divided, and Russia and the United States have differed on how to interpret the mandate for the meeting.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在2013年5月出访莫斯科时宣布，美国打算联合俄罗斯召开和平会议。这个建议首次于此前一年在日内瓦得到了讨论。不过，消息公布以来，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)强化了自己的军事地位，而不受控的叙利亚反对派则变得更加分裂。对于如何阐释会议的使命，俄罗斯和美国意见不一。
The United States’ leverage over the Assad government, meanwhile, has declined. Mr. Kerry arrived at the State Department last year declaring his intention to change Mr. Assad’s “calculation” about this ability to hold on to power. But the Obama administration withdrew the threat of force in return last fall for an agreement that requires Syria to eliminate its chemical arsenal, while the American effort to train and equip Syrian rebels, by all accounts, remained very limited.
同时，美国对阿萨德政府的影响力下降了。去年就任国务卿的克里在一开始宣布了自己的意图，他要改变阿萨德对自己的掌权能力的“估算”。不过，去年秋天，奥巴马政府取消了对叙动武的威胁，以换取要求叙利亚销毁化学武器库的协议。与此同时，不管从哪个方面说，美国给叙利亚反对派提供的训练和武器装备始终十分有限。
“For any political conference to succeed in trying to defuse, much less settle, an intense conflict, the ground has to be laid,” said Dennis Ross, the former Middle East envoy. “An agenda needs to be agreed; the parties have to want some minimal achievement; the convening co-sponsors have to share some basic goals; and there has to be sufficient leverage on those doing the fighting to permit some compromises to be made,” he added. “Most of these conditions are lacking.”
美国前中东问题特使丹尼斯·B·罗斯(Dennis B. Ross)说，“任何旨在设法平息激烈冲突的政治会议要获得成功，都需要一定的基础，要化解激烈的冲突就更不必说了。需要一个广受各方认可的会议议程；与会各方必须要有取得某些最微不足道的成果的意愿；会议的共同主办方必须有一些基本的共同目标；会议对参战各方必须具有足够的影响力，以促使他们达成一定的妥协。”他还说，“其中的大部分条件，本次会议都不具备。”
Added a Western diplomat involved in preparations for the talks: “We don’t have a Plan B.”
参与会谈筹备工作的一名西方外交官补充说，“我们没有备用计划。”
Unlike the Middle East talks, in which Mr. Kerry set a nine-month goal for completing a peace treaty, there is no target date for completing the Syria peace talks or establishing a transitional administration that could take over if Mr. Assad agreed to relinquish power. In a closed-door meeting with the Syrian opposition last year, Mr. Kerry noted that Vietnam peace negotiations had gone on for years.
克里给中东会谈设定了在九个月内达成和平协议的目标，与之不同的是，他既没有设定完成叙利亚和谈的目标期限，也没有提出要在多长时间内建立过渡政府接掌权力，当然这样做的前提是阿萨德同意放弃权力。 在去年与叙利亚反对派举行的一次闭门会议上，克里指出，越南和谈曾经持续了多年。
Despite the enormous obstacles, the State Department asserts that the talks are worth holding because the push to establish a transitional body to govern Syria, a main goal of the conference, might encourage defections among Mr. Assad’s traditional supporters, including the Alawi community.
虽然存在巨大的障碍，美国国务院依然坚称值得举行和谈，这是因为，推动建立一个过渡机构治理叙利亚是本次会议的一个主要目标，而这可能会在包括阿拉维派在内的阿萨德的传统支持者中引发离弃行为。
“There are elements inside the regime itself, among its supporters, that are anxious to find a peaceful solution, and we’ve gotten plenty of messages from people inside; they want a way out,” the State Department official said.
一名国务院官员表示，“我们从内部人士当中获得了大量的信号，在叙利亚政权内部，就在该政权的支持者中间，存在着急于寻找和平解决方案的群体；他们想寻找出路。”
“That’s the whole point of their going to Geneva,” he added, referring to the Syrian opposition. “To promote the alternative, the alternative vision.”
谈到叙利亚反对派的时候，他还说，“这是他们前往日内瓦的全部理由。那就是推动替代方案，推动一个替代性愿景。”
But if that is the goal, Mr. Assad has sought to redefine the purpose of the talks before they have even begun. In comments published Monday by Agence France Presse, Mr. Assad said that the purpose of the meeting should be discuss ways to fight terrorism and that it was “totally unrealistic” to think that he would ever share power with the opposition that is living in exile.
不过，如果说这就是目标，那么哪怕和谈还没召开，阿萨德就已在设法重新定义和谈目标了。在法新社(Agence France Presse)周一刊登的文章中，阿萨德表示，会议的目标应该是讨论反恐方案，那种认为他会和流亡中的反对派分享权力的想法是“完全不切实际的”。
At the same time, American officials say, Syrian forces have carried out a display of force by stepping up their attacks inside Syria and have continued to bomb Aleppo.
与此同时，美国官员称，通过加大国内的打击力度并持续轰炸阿勒颇，叙利亚政府军进行了军力展示。
The Syria conference will begin on Wednesday with a round of addresses by Mr. Kerry and his counterparts in the Swiss town of Montreux. On Friday, the conference will shift to Geneva, where a delegation of Syrian opposition officials will sit down with a team sent to represent Mr. Assad.
叙利亚和谈将于本周三在瑞士的蒙特勒揭幕，首先由克里及各国外长发表一轮演讲。周五的时候，和谈将转场到日内瓦，由叙利亚反对派官员的代表团坐下来与阿萨德派出的团队会面。
Attending the meeting carries risks for both sides. For the government delegation, a hotel lobby teeming with foreign journalists, Western diplomats and Syrian opposition members is an opportunity to sell their message but anyone suspected of talking about possible participation in a transitional body could face repercussions at home.
参加本次会议对双方而言都有风险。对叙利亚政府代表团而言，挤满了外国记者、西方外交官和叙利亚反对派成员的酒店大厅是宣传己方立场的一个机会，然而，任何被怀疑谈论参与过渡机构可能性的人，或许都要在国内承担后果。
The opposition coalition, for its part, risks a further erosion of influence with fighters inside Syria for sitting down to talk with Mr. Assad’s delegation. The opposition has yet to release the names of its delegation and its several dozen advisers, but they are said to include only a small number of military commanders.
至于反对派联盟，由于坐下来与阿萨德的代表团谈判，他们面临在国内武装中的影响力遭到进一步削弱的风险。反对派尚未公布代表团成员及其数十名顾问的名单，不过，据传其中仅包括少数几名军事将领。
An immediate question is whether the talks will lead to the opening of aid corridors, prisoner exchanges or local cease-fires. The matter is important to address the deteriorating humanitarian situation in which the Assad government has imposed blockades on the delivery of food, medicine and aid to try to drive his opponents into submission. But such measures would also be intended to create an environment for an eventual political accommodation.
当下最紧要的问题是，谈判能否带来援助通道的开通、战俘的交换，或者地方性停火？阿萨德政府对粮食、药品及援助物资的运输设置障碍，试图迫使反对派投降，而上述问题对缓解这种日益恶化的人道主义现状至关重要。此外，这类措施的目的还包括为最终的政治和解创造环境。