GENEVA — Syria’s government said Wednesday that insurgents had assaulted two storage sites for some of the deadly chemical weapons components it has pledged to eliminate. It was the first time the Syrian authorities had reported such attacks in the three months since an international effort began to sequester and purge the country of the banned munitions.
日内瓦——叙利亚政府周三表示，叛乱分子袭击了两个储藏地点，那里存放着叙利亚承诺将销毁的部分致命化学武器原料。自国际社会于三个月前开始收缴和销毁该国禁用军火以来，这是叙利亚当局首次通报此类袭击。
Bassam Sabbagh, the Syrian representative to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the Hague-based group that is helping oversee the destruction of the Syrian arsenal, reported the attacks at the group’s executive council meeting, according to a European diplomat who was present. The diplomat spoke on the condition of anonymity because the meeting’s deliberations were private and the Syrian’s account was not publicly disclosed.
总部位于海牙的禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)正在协助监督销毁叙利亚化学武器。一名欧洲外交官称，叙利亚驻该组织代表巴萨姆·萨巴格(Bassam Sabbagh)在该组织的一次执行委员会会议上通报了相关袭击。这名外交官列席了这次会议，谈论此事时要求不具名，因为会上的讨论是不公开的，叙利亚的说法尚未公之于众。
The attacks, if confirmed, underscore the difficulties in securing and destroying the chemical weapons in the midst of a civil war, a point that the organization’s officials have repeatedly made since an ambitious joint mission with the United Nations to eliminate them began in early October with the Syrian government’s consent.
如果属实，则前述袭击突显了在内战尚未结束时收缴并销毁化学武器的困难。得到叙利亚政府的同意后，禁止化学武器组织从10月初开始与联合国联手执行销毁化武的艰巨使命。自那时以来，该组织的官员多次提到这一点。
The Syrian government is facing increased pressure to accelerate the process for ridding the country of the most dangerous materials among the 1,200 tons of toxic agents it has amassed over the years. It missed the deadline for exporting them by Dec. 31. The entire arsenal must be destroyed by June 30, under a Security Council resolution approved in September.
过去这些年里，叙利亚积聚了1200吨毒剂。现在，叙利亚政府面临着更大的压力，必须设法加快销毁化学武库中最危险原料的进程。叙利亚未能在12月31日的最后期限之前将这些原料运送出国。按照9月通过的一项安理会(Security Council)决议的规定，全部武器必须在6月30日前销毁。
The first cargo of the most dangerous materials bound for export was loaded onto a Danish vessel on Tuesday in the Syrian port of Latakia, a step that the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons called an important sign of progress.
周二，第一批将被运出叙利亚的最危险原料已在叙利亚港口拉塔基亚装上一艘丹麦商船。联合国和禁止化学武器组织称，这是取得进展的重要标志。
Officials declined to comment on the account by Mr. Sabbagh, who told the executive council that insurgents had assaulted a storage site near the city of Homs and a second site outside Damascus, according to the European diplomat. Mr. Sabbagh did not specify when the attacks took place, the identities of the attackers or what damage, if any, had resulted, but said that the attacks “would have been disastrous if the terrorist plans had worked,” the European diplomat said.
官员们拒绝评论萨巴格的说法。据前述欧洲外交官透露，萨巴格对执行委员会说，反对派武装分子袭击了霍姆斯市附近的一处武器库和大马士革郊外的一处武器库。这名欧洲外交官说，萨巴格没有具体说明袭击发生的时间和袭击者的身份，也没有说明袭击所致损失的有无和轻重，只是说，“如果恐怖分子计划得逞”，此次袭击“会造成灾难性的后果”。
“It was unexpected,” the diplomat said. “I was surprised that this was the first we had heard of them.”
前述外交官说，“他的发言出乎意料。让我惊讶的是，这是我们第一次听说袭击的消息。”
On Wednesday, the top United Nations official coordinating the joint mission in Syria briefed the Security Council privately on the progress and told reporters at United Nations headquarters afterward that Syria was eager to get rid of the stockpile “within the shortest possible delay.”
周三，在叙利亚协调化武销毁联合任务的联合国高级官员向安理会(Security Council)私下通报了化武销毁进程，之后在联合国总部对记者表示，叙利亚急于处理掉化武库存，希望“尽可能缩短耽搁的时间”。
The official, Sigrid Kaag, said nothing about attacks on Syrian storage facilities. But she said that “security is a big factor in all that takes place” and that the mid-2014 deadline for the complete destruction of the Syrian arsenal could still be met despite the civil war raging in Syria.
名为西格里德·卡格(Sigrid Kaag)的前述官员对叙利亚化武存储设施遇袭一事只字未提。但她表示，“在所有的行动中，安全都是一个重要因素”，还说尽管叙利亚境内内战正酣，使团仍有可能在2014年年中如期完成全部销毁叙利亚化武的目标。
Ms. Kaag said the public should not worry about the deadliest compounds, known as Priority 1 chemicals, aboard the Danish vessel, which will remain at sea with the cargo, then dock at Latakia again to collect the remainder when it is ready to be loaded.
卡格说，公众不应为装载在丹麦商船上的最致命化合物感到担忧，这种化合物被称为一级优先(Priority 1)化学品。商船会载着这些原料停留在海上，要到剩余原料做好装船准备时才会再次停靠拉塔基亚进行装载。
Once the entire stockpile of the deadliest compounds, estimated to total 500 tons, is on the ship, it will go to Italy, where the chemicals will be transferred to an American naval vessel equipped to render them harmless.
最致命化合物的总量估计有500吨，一旦所有储备都已上船，该船就会驶往意大利。到了那里，这些化学品会被转移到一艘设施齐备的美国军舰上，实施无害化处理。
“They’re safe and secure, they’re properly guarded, and all efforts have been made to keep them in that way,” Ms. Kaag told reporters. “Everything has been done to make sure that this is properly handled.”
卡格对记者说，“这些物品安然无恙，得到了稳妥的守护，我们已采取一切措施来确保它们万无一失。能用的措施我们都用了，就是要确保这些物品得到稳妥的处理。”