BEIRUT — Thousands of sick and dying Syrians had flooded the hospitals in the Damascus suburbs before dawn, hours after the first rockets landed, their bodies convulsing and mouths foaming. Their vision was blurry and many could not breathe.
贝鲁特——数千名患病或生命垂危的叙利亚人，在破晓前涌向了位于大马士革郊区的各家医院。最初几枚火箭弹落地后，他们的身体开始抽搐，嘴角流出泡沫。他们的视线变得模糊，许多人呼吸困难。
Overwhelmed doctors worked frantically, jabbing their patients with injections of their only antidote, atropine, hoping to beat back the assault on the nervous system waged by suspected chemical agents. In just a few hours, as the patients poured in, the atropine ran out.
医生们应接不暇，忙乱地护理病人，往患者身上扎针，注射他们手上仅有的抗生素阿托品，希望这样可以抵御疑似化学药剂对病人的神经系统的侵袭。仅仅几个小时，随着患者的涌入，阿托品就用光了。
To avoid contamination, medics stripped new arrivals down to their underwear and doused them with water before taking them inside.
为了避免感染，医护人员把新送到的患者脱光衣服只剩内衣，并放在水里浸泡，之后才把他们挪进来。
New patients kept coming. One doctor from the town of Kafr Batna likened the scene to a horror movie, with cars arriving at a clinic carrying entire families — fathers, mothers and children — all of them dead.
新患者不断地送来，一名来自卡法尔巴特纳镇(Kafr Batna)的医生将那幅场景比作恐怖电影，汽车将一整家一整家的人送到诊所，父母和孩子都死了。
The doctors soon faced a new problem: where to put the dead. Some were covered with blocks of ice to fend off the summer heat, others were wrapped in white sheets and lined up in rows so family members could identify the victims.
所有的医生很快又开始面临一个新的问题：把尸体摆放在哪里。一些尸体上覆盖着冰块抵挡夏日的炎热，还有一些尸体则裹着白布，一排排地摆着，让家属确认遇难者身份。
It would be hours before officials in Washington woke up on Wednesday to learn the extent of the massacre. President Obama, who had recently returned from a weeklong vacation and planned a quiet day at the White House before departing for a two-day bus tour across New York and Pennsylvania, was first told of the attack in the Oval Office that morning during his regular intelligence briefing.
等华盛顿的官员周三早晨醒来，得知屠杀的规模有多大时，已经是几个小时后的事了。奥巴马总统不久前刚刚结束为期一周的度假归来，正打算在白宫静静地待一天，之后就启程乘大巴，花两天时间在纽约州和宾夕法尼亚州与民众见面。他最初得知这次袭击是当天早上，在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)进行的例行情报汇报。
The White House issued a cautious public statement about the attacks from a deputy spokesman shortly before noon, but behind the scenes the president and his national security team were grappling with the urgency and enormity of the event: the largest mass killing of the Syrian civil war, and most likely the deadliest chemical weapons attack since Saddam Hussein’s troops killed thousands of Kurds with sarin gas during the waning days of the Iran-Iraq war in 1988.
快中午的时候，白宫的一名副发言人针对这次袭击发表了一份措辞谨慎的公开声明，但在幕后，总统和和他的国家安全团队正在思考事件的紧迫性和严重性：这是叙利亚内战以来规模最大的屠杀，也可能是1988年两伊战争即将结束时，萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的军队使用沙林毒气毒死数千名库尔德人以来，死亡人数最多的化学武器袭击。
Interviews with more than two dozen activists, rebels and doctors in areas near the attack sites, as well as an examination of more than 100 videos and photos of the aftermath, back up this assertion.
在袭击发生地附近区域对二十多名活动人士、反对派人士和医务人员进行过采访，并且查看过事件发生后的100份视频和照片之后，这种推断得到了证实。
Not only has the attack brought widespread condemnation on President Bashar al-Assad’s government in Syria, which the United States and its allies are convinced carried out the strike, it is also already shaping up as an inflection point for a war that has been grinding on for more than two years and that has claimed more than 100,000 victims. An American president who has tried desperately to keep the United States out of another war in the Middle East is now weighing a military attack on Syria — cornered by his own statement that a large-scale chemical weapons strike would be a “red line” forcing Washington to respond.
这次袭击不仅使叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府受到了广泛谴责——美国及其盟友已经确信实施这次袭击的是阿萨德的政府，而且在这场已经持续超过两年、导致10万人死伤的战争中，这起袭击事件还将成为一个转折点。为了避免让美国在中东地区再卷入一场战争，奥巴马总统付出了艰辛的努力，但他现在正在权衡对叙利亚的军事打击，原因是他曾亲口表示，大规模开展化学武器袭击是一条“红线”，一旦越过华盛顿就会被迫进行回应。
Mr. Assad’s government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons, while blaming rebels for reported attacks. But Western nations say they have solid evidence that the Syrian government has used such weapons on at least two occasions before last Wednesday. And the supplies of atropine on hand in rebel-held areas just outside Syria’s capital testify to the repeated, if limited, use of chemical agents as a tactical weapon in what has become a street-by-street war of attrition, the rebels and doctors said.
阿萨德政府反复否认使用了化学武器，还把报道的袭击事件归咎于反对派武装。然而西方国家表示，他们有坚实的证据证明，叙利亚政府在上周三之前，至少曾在两个场合使用过化学武器。而且医疗人员和反对派武装人员表示，从临近叙利亚首都之外的反对派武装占领区的阿托品供应量看，将化学药剂当做战术性武器使用的情况，或许规模有限，但却在反复发生。这里的战斗已经变成了寸土必争的巷战。
If the United States does get involved, it will most likely be because of the scale of what took place in the dead of night last Wednesday in towns just outside of Damascus that the government was determined to retake. The attacks caused such chaos among residents that the death toll is still unknown, and many are still uncertain about the fate of their relatives.
如果美国进行干预，最可能的原因就是上周三深夜，在大马士革周边城镇里所发生的袭击事件规模极大，而且叙利亚政府决心继续动手。袭击在居民中造成了严重的混乱，以至于确切的死亡人数仍不为人知，许多人仍不确定亲人的死活。
“Those are my cousins,” said one person in a video shot in the city of Hamouriyeh, pointing to the ground where the bodies of a man and his two children lay.
一段在汗米雷亚拍摄的视频显示，一名男子指着地上说，“他们是我的表亲。”地上摆着一名男子及他的两个孩子的尸体。
“I’m still looking for the rest,” he said. “Five or six of them.”
“我还在寻找别的人，”他说，“总共有五、六人。”
By nightfall in Syria, the bodies that were unclaimed had been buried in an archipelago of new mass graves. Before laying them to rest, activists put numbers on their foreheads and snapped photos — in case their families came looking for them later.
夜幕降临叙利亚之时，无人认领的尸体埋葬在了许多新掘的大墓穴里。在下葬前，活动人士在死者额头前标示数字并拍照，以备他们的家人有朝一日前来寻找。
Many Trapped at Home
许多人被困在家里
It began just after 2 a.m.
袭击是凌晨两点后不久开始的。
Those who heard the explosions and lived to tell about them were surprised at the sound, saying it was “like a water tank bursting” or “like opening a Pepsi bottle.”
那些听到爆炸声、且有幸还活着的人说，那种声响让他们很惊讶。他们说“就像是水箱爆了”或“像打开百事可乐(Pepsi)的瓶子”。
Then came the smell, which burned eyes and throats, like onion or chlorine.
然后就是气味，灼烧眼睛和喉咙的气味，就像洋葱或氯气。 
The effects were immediate and devastating.
效果是突然而毁灭性的。 
At the time of the strikes, a few hours before morning prayers, most people were still asleep in their homes. The substance released by the barrage of rockets that crashed into suburbs on two sides of Damascus killed many people before they were even able to get out of their beds.
袭击发生时距离晨祷还有几个小时，多数人都还在家中睡觉。当一连串火箭弹落在大马士革两侧的郊区时，许多人还没能下床就已经死了。 
The deadliest of the attacks struck at the heart of a region known as Eastern Ghouta, an area northeast of Damascus whose towns have swelled into cities in recent decades with an influx of mostly poor Sunni Muslims from the countryside, the key constituency of the anti-Assad uprising.
伤亡最惨重的是一个叫做东古塔的地区，位于大马士革东北部，随着来自乡下的逊尼派穆斯林穷人涌入，那里的镇子在过去几十年里渐渐扩张成为城市，是反阿萨德势力的重要据点。 
Towns in the area have been held for more than a year by various factions of the rebellion. Unlike in northern and eastern Syria, extremist groups like the Nusra Front are not dominant. The area’s economic isolation made it fertile ground for the rebellion, and it has proved to be a perpetual threat to Mr. Assad’s control over the capital region.
该地区的镇子已经被各种不同派别的反对派武装组织占据了一年有余。和叙利亚北部和东部不同的是，努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)之类的极端组织在这里没有绝对优势。该地区在经济上的孤立令它成为反对派的一片沃土，不断威胁到阿萨德对首都地区的控制。 
The attacks appeared to fit into a pattern of continued escalation by government forces throughout the war, with large strikes on residential areas that appear to serve no immediate tactical purpose.
这次袭击看来符合政府军在战争中行动不断升级的趋势，大规模袭击居住区，而且看上去没有什么直接的战术目的。 
Such attacks seem to be aimed not at killing rebel fighters, but at terrifying the rebels’ civilian backers in strategic areas that Mr. Assad’s forces have been unable to subdue.
这样的袭击，目的似乎并不是杀死反对派武装分子，而是在一些阿萨德武装无力征服的战略区域，对支持反对派的平民进行恐吓。 
“They knew that people’s sons were on the front lines, so if you hit their families, they would go back and check on them and it would be easier to invade,” said an activist from Zamalka who gave only his first name, Firas. But he said that the tactic had not worked and had instead rallied rebel fighters to defend their positions.
“他们知道这些人的儿子在前线，所以如果你打击他们的家人，这些人就会回家来探望，这样就更利于你的入侵，”一位只透露自己名叫菲拉斯(Firas)，来自扎马勒卡的活动人士说。但是他说这个战术没有奏效，反倒令反对派武装分子集结起来保卫他们的地盘。 
Some military analysts said that the apparent chemical attack appeared to be part of a broader operation by Mr. Assad’s forces, which have also used tanks, conventionally-armed rockets and airpower to wrest control of rebel areas around the Syrian capital.
一些军事分析人士说，这次明目张胆的化学武器袭击似乎是阿萨德武装的一个大规模行动的一部分，他的部队还使用坦克、配有常规弹药的火箭弹和空中火力，与叙利亚首都周边地区的反对派武装争夺控制权。 
“It appears that they were trying to break resistance in the Damascus area, which they have been trying to do unsuccessfully for some time,” said Jeffrey White, a former Middle East analyst with the Defense Intelligence Agency who is now a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
“看来他们正在试图瓦解大马士革地区的抵抗，这事他们做了好一阵子了，一直不成功，”前国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)中东分析师、现任华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)研究员杰弗里·怀特(Jeffrey White)说。 
Firas, the activist, said he was driving home with some friends when he heard about the attack over his walkie-talkie. He said he was terrified, since no one knew where the attacks had occurred and how far the suspected gas had spread. They used wet pieces of cloth to cover their noses and mouths and sped out of town to a field hospital farther east.
上文所述的活动人士菲拉斯说，他是在和几个朋友驾车回家时通过步话机得知袭击的消息的。他说他非常恐惧，因为没人知道什么地方遭受了袭击，也不知道可疑气体扩散到了哪里。他们用湿布捂住鼻子和嘴，迅速出城前往东面的一个野战医院。 
Hospitals Overwhelmed
医院不堪重负
Whatever the chemicals used, the carnage caused by Wednesday’s attack overwhelmed field hospitals outside of Damascus. Bodies covered tile floors, stretched down hallways and were laid out on sidewalks and streets.
不管使用了什么化学制剂，周三的袭击造成的惨烈场面令大马士革周边的野战医院应接不暇。地上满是尸体，一直铺到走廊，甚至外面的街道和人行道上。 
A doctor from the town of Kafr Batna said he rushed to his clinic soon after the attack and found 100 patients.
卡法尔巴特纳的一名医生说，他在袭击发生后立刻冲出诊所，发现了100名患者。 
“We had men, women and children, all of them choking and having trouble breathing,” said the doctor, Sakhr. “Some of them had foam coming out of their mouths and nostrils and many had lost consciousness.”
“我们这里有男人、女人和孩子，全都出现窒息，呼吸困难的情况，”这位名叫萨克尔(Sakhr)的医生说，“有人的嘴和鼻孔里冒出白沫，许多人已经失去知觉。” 
The medical charity Doctors Without Borders said Saturday that three clinics it supports in the area recorded 355 deaths. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the conflict from Britain through a network of contacts inside Syria, said it had confirmed the deaths of 322 people, including 54 children and 82 women.
医疗慈善组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)在周六说，他们在该地区支持的三家医院已经有355例死亡记录。在英国的叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)会通过在叙利亚的人际关系网来跟踪该国的冲突状况，该组织称它已经确认322人死亡，包括54名儿童和82名妇女。 
Some activists have compiled lists of names and say that more than 1,000 people were killed in Wednesday’s predawn attack.
一些活动人士整理了一份死难者名单，称周三拂晓前的袭击造成超过1000人死亡。 
By the end of that day, Dr. Sakhr of Kafr Batna said, 16 of the 160 bodies collected at his clinic had not been claimed. Volunteers took the bodies to a nearby graveyard, photographed their faces one by one, and buried them in a mass grave.
卡法尔巴特纳的萨克尔医生说，诊所当天接收的160具尸体，到晚间还有16具无人认领。志愿者把尸体运到了附近的墓地，逐个给死者的面部拍照，然后掩埋到一个大墓穴里。 
For those who survived, there was a different kind of grim reckoning.
而那些幸存者要面对的是另一种恐怖。 
Nearly a week after the attack, Dr. Sakhr said local residents who had not fled the area were flooding him with questions about where to sleep to protect themselves from future attacks.
在袭击过去将近一周后，萨克尔说没有逃离的当地居民蜂拥而来，问他如果将来还有袭击，他们应该睡在哪里才能幸免。 
Others were still searching for lost relatives, including children who had been taken in by strangers after their parents disappeared.
还有一些人在寻找失踪的亲人，包括父母失踪后被陌生人送来的孩子。 
“Some found their relatives, said ‘praise God’ and sat down next to them,” said Dr. Sakhr.
“有的找到了亲人，一边感谢着神恩一边坐在他们身边，”萨克尔说。 
“Others didn’t find them, and had to look elsewhere.”
“有的没找到，只好再去别处找。”