The first batch of the most dangerous materials in Syria’s banned chemical weapons stockpile was exported from the country on Tuesday, loaded onto a Danish commercial vessel in the Syrian port of Latakia in an operation overseen jointly by the United Nations and the group responsible for ensuring the arsenal’s destruction.
本周二，叙利亚被禁化武库中首批最危险的材料从该国运出，在叙利亚港口拉塔基亚装上了一艘丹麦商船，负责确保这批材料被销毁的组织和联合国共同监督了这个过程。
In a statement, the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, The Hague-based group that monitors the treaty Syria agreed to join in September, said the Danish vessel had departed Latakia and would remain at sea until the second cargo of chemicals reaches Latakia, when it will return to load them. The vessel was escorted by Danish and Norwegian naval vessels, the statement said, and China and Russia were providing further maritime security for the operation.
在一份声明中，联合国和禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons，缩写为OPCW）称这艘丹麦商船已经离开拉塔基亚，将继续停留在海上，待到第二批化学材料抵达拉塔基亚，再回去装载它们。OPCW总部设在海牙，负责监督叙利亚去年9月同意加入的一个条约的执行情况。该声明还说，这艘商船由丹麦和挪威海军舰艇护送，中国和俄罗斯会为这次行动提供进一步的海上安全保障。
“This movement initiates the process of transfer of chemical materials from the Syrian Arab Republic to locations outside its territory for destruction,” said the statement by Sigrid Kaag, the United Nations official responsible for coordinating the effort.
“这次行动开启了把化学材料从叙利亚阿拉伯共和国转移到其领土以外的位置销毁的过程，”联合国负责协调这个任务的官员西格丽德·卡格(Sigrid Kaag)在声明中说。
The export and destruction of the most dangerous substances in the Syrian arsenal, which the statement called “priority chemical materials,” has long been considered the trickiest and most hazardous part of the operation, which Syria agreed to carry out as part of its pledge more than three months ago to renounce chemical weapons and join the treaty that bans them.
3个多月前，叙利亚承诺放弃化学武器，加入禁止化武的条约，该国化武库中最危险的材料被这份声明称为“优先级化学材料”，它们的运出和销毁一直被视为叙利亚放弃化武过程中最棘手、最危险的环节。
Syria’s pledge came after intense Russian and American diplomacy that averted United States military action in response to an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack in the Damascus suburbs that killed hundreds of civilians, including children. The United States accused President Bashar al-Assad’s forces of having carried out the assault, the deadliest single event in the nearly three-year-old civil war convulsing the country. Mr. Assad said insurgents were responsible.
去年8月21日，大马士革郊区遭受化武攻击，造成包括儿童在内的数百名平民死亡，俄罗斯和美国进行了紧张的外交斡旋，避免了美国采取军事行动作为回应，叙利亚也做出了加入禁止化武条约的承诺。美国指责叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)的部队实施了这次化学攻击，造成了叙利亚内战席卷该国近三年来致死人数最多的一起事件。阿萨德则说开展攻击的是反叛分子。
Under a Security Council resolution approved Sept. 27, Mr. Assad’s government agreed to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal by the middle of 2014. The most dangerous chemicals were supposed to have been exported from the country by Dec. 31, but that stage of the operation was delayed because mayhem caused by the war had made their overland transport to Latakia too dangerous to complete by then.
根据9月27日通过的一项安理会决议，阿萨德政府允诺在2014年年中销毁叙利亚化武库存。最危险的化学材料应该在去年12月31日前运出该国，但是出现了延迟情况，因为内战造成的混乱使得前往拉塔基亚的陆路运输过程变得非常危险，因此这个步骤无法按时完成。
Despite the delay, the neutralization of Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal, which includes the deadly nerve agent sarin and other toxic compounds, is so far considered a conspicuous success in a conflict that has seemed only to worsen and grow more intractable.
叙利亚化武库中包含有致命神经毒剂沙林和其他有毒化合物，尽管时间出现了延迟，对它们的处理迄今为止都被认为是在继续恶化、变得更加棘手的叙利亚冲突中的一个巨大成功。
An American naval vessel outfitted to safely neutralize the chemicals at sea has been on standby to receive the chemicals once they are safely out of Syria. Ms. Kaag’s statement did not specify when that part of the operation would commence.
一艘美国军舰负责在海上安全地中和这些化学品，让它们失去效力。这艘军舰一直处于待命状态，准备在这批化学品安全离开叙利亚后接收它们。卡格的声明没有明确指出这个步骤会在何时开始。