For decades, he was the bespectacled caretaker of some of Syria’s greatest archaeological treasures. He explored the sprawling ruins in his hometown, named a daughter Zenobia after its ancient queen, and became so intertwined with its development that one historian called him “Mr. Palmyra.”
数十年来，带着眼镜的他一直是叙利亚一些伟大考古宝藏的守护者。 他探勘家乡四散于各处的遗迹，用古代女王 Zenobia 的名字为女儿命名，与 Palmyra 的发展有着千丝万缕的联系，有个历史学家甚至叫他“Palmyra 先生”。
Now, months after his home fell to the jihadists of the Islamic State, Khalid al-Asaad, the retired chief of antiquities for Palmyra, has fallen, too.
而今在他的家乡陷入伊斯兰国圣战士之手的几个月后，Khalid al-Asaad, 这位退了休的Palmyra 古代文物的首席专家，也陨落了。
After detaining him for weeks, the jihadists dragged him on Tuesday to a public square where a masked swordsman cut off his head in front of a crowd, Mr. Asaad’s relatives said.
Asaad 先生的亲戚说，拘留他几个星期后，在星期二，圣战士把他拖到一个公共广场，一个戴着面罩的刽子手在公众面前将他斩首。
His blood-soaked body was then suspended with red twine by its wrists from a traffic light, his head resting on the ground between his feet, his glasses still on, according to a photo distributed on social media by Islamic State supporters.
由伊斯兰国支持者公布在社交媒体的照片上可以看到：他血迹斑斑的尸首被缠在手腕上的红麻绳悬挂在红绿灯上，头在双脚下的地上，眼镜还戴在脸上。
Before his death, the jihadists had interrogated him in vain about where to find the city’s hidden treasures, Syrian state news media reported, suggesting that the elderly caretaker may have died protecting the same history he had dedicated his life to exploring.
据叙利亚国家新闻媒体的报导，他死亡之前，圣战士曾经拷问他这个城市宝藏的下落，却徒劳无功。意味着这位年长的守护者可能便死于保护他毕生致力研究的历史文物。
The public killing of Mr. Asaad, who had retired a decade before and had recently turned 83, his son said, highlighted the Islamic State’s brutality as it seeks to replace the government of President Bashar al-Assad with a punishing interpretation of Islam across its self-declared caliphate in parts of Syria and Iraq.
Asaad 先生十年前退休，刚满83岁。Asaad 的儿子说，伊斯兰国在叙利亚与伊拉克的一些他们擅自宣称为哈里发统治区的地区内，试图用极端激烈的伊斯兰教义来代替Bashar al-Assad 总统的统治。对Asaad的公开杀害，在在显示了伊斯兰国的残暴。
Scholars who knew Mr. Asaad said he was less a pure academic than a self-taught scholar passionate about his hometown’s history.
认识 Asaad 先生的学者们说，他除了是一个纯粹的学术研究者外，更是一个对故乡历史十分热情的自学专家。
Yasser Tabbaa, a specialist on Islamic art and architecture in Syria and Iraq who lives in Ann Arbor, Mich., said Mr. Asaad was well known in the field as a man who had taught himself to read the city’s ancient inscriptions and often presented in English at academic conferences about his decades researching the site.
Yasser Tabbaa, 是一位住在Michigan州Ann Arbor的叙利亚伊拉克艺术与建筑专家。他说，Asaad先生自学 Palmyra古代碑文而且经常在学术会议上以英语报告对当地遗迹多年研究成果，因此在此领域内享有盛誉。
“He was a very important authority on possibly the most important archaeological site in Syria,” Mr. Tabbaa said.
Tabbaa 先生说，“对这个叙利亚境内可能最重要的考古遗址，他是一位非常重要的权威。”
Like many Syrian professionals, Mr. Asaad was a member of the ruling Baath Party. That surely helped him land the job he would define over decades, but his intimate knowledge of the site made him indispensable to foreign researchers.
如同许多叙利亚专家，Asaad 先生是执政党 Baath Party 的一员。这个身份对他获得后来从事数十年的工作确有帮助，可是他对此遗址的深切研究才真正使他成为外国研究者不可不知的一位学者。
“Anyone who wanted to do anything in Palmyra had to work though Khalid al-Asaad,” said Amr al-Azm, a Syrian professor of Middle Eastern history and anthropology at Shawnee State University in Ohio. “He was Mr. Palmyra.”
一位Ohio州Shawnee 州立大学中东历史与考古的叙利亚教授Amr al-Azm说：“任何人要在Palmyra 做任何研究都得通过 Khalid al-Asaad。”“他就是 Palmyra 先生。”
Mr. Asaad was born in Palmyra and spent his life there, leaving only to study in the Syrian capital, Damascus, where he received degrees in history and education, according to the Syrian state news agency, SANA.
根据叙利亚国家新闻社 SANA 的报导，Asaad 先生出生在 Palmyra, 也终其一生居住此地。离开Palmyra是去叙利亚首都大马士革求学，获得历史与教育学位。
He was appointed the director of antiquities for Palmyra in 1963 as well as the director of its museum, positions he held until his retirement in 2003.
在1963年，他被任命为Palmyra 文物研究主任以及Palmyra 博物馆馆长，并任此二職一直到2003年退休为止。
Reflecting how he often managed Palmyra’s history like a family business, he passed his two positions to his son, Walid.
他将这两个工作交给他的儿子 Walid, 足以表现他将 Palmyra 历史作为自己家业看待。
The city’s extensive ruins mark the site of an ancient oasis town in the desert northeast of Damascus, and include a theater, a number of temples, living quarters and cemeteries.
这座城市的广阔遗迹标志着一座处于大马士革东北沙漠中的古代绿洲城市遗址，包括剧院，一些寺庙，居住区和墓园。
Unesco, which named Palmyra a World Heritage site, called it “the consummate example of an ancient urbanized complex.” Many of its main discoveries were made during Mr. Asaad’s tenure.
联合国教科文组织，认定Palmyra 为世界文明遗产，把它称为“古代城市化聚居的最佳范例。”许多主要发现都是在 Asaad 先生任内完成的。
“Here is where he dedicated his life, revealing Palmyra’s precious history and interpreting it so that we could learn from this great city that was a crossroads of the ancient world,” Irina Bokova, Unesco’s director general, said in a statement on Wednesday, adding that she was “saddened and outraged” by the killing.
Irina Bokova, 联合国教科文组织的主任，在星期三的声明中说：“他将他的一生奉献给此地，发明与阐释 Palmyra 的历史，我们才能由这座古代世界转折点的伟大城市学习到许多知识。” 她同时也表示对Asaad 的被杀深感悲愤。
The city’s history made it a prime tourist attraction before the uprising against Mr. Assad broke out in 2011, leading to the current civil war. As armed rebels took territory elsewhere in the country, Palmyra remained in government hands until May of this year, when the jihadists of the Islamic State seized it, raising fears that they would destroy some of its rich antiquities and sell others to finance their operations.
在2011年反对 Assad 总统的暴乱发生并引发内战之前，这座城市的历史使其成为主要的观光景点。武装叛乱分子在叙利亚占领了许多其他地区，但在今年五月之前，Palmyra 一直在政府军手中。五月时伊斯兰国圣战士略取Palmyra，引起了他们可能毁坏其丰富历史文物或贩卖古物以资助叛乱的担忧。
Reached by phone on Wednesday in the Syrian city of Homs, Mr. Asaad’s son, Mohammed, said his father had refused to leave the city, thinking the jihadist group, also known as ISIS, would not bother with someone his age.
星期三，通过电话采访，在叙利亚的Homs 市，Asaad 先生的儿子Mohammed表示，他父亲拒绝离开这个城市，以为圣战士，或称为 ISIS， 不会找他这把年纪的人的麻烦。 
“He was a retired government employee and an old man,” the younger Mr. Asaad said. “He was innocent, so he never thought ISIS would hurt him.”
较年轻的 Asaad 先生说：“他是个退休的政府雇员，是个老人，”“他是清白无辜的，所以他从来也没想到ISIS会伤害他。”
A nephew of Mr. Asaad’s, who goes by the name Khalid al-Homsi and used to be his next-door neighbor, said the jihadists arrested his uncle for a few days when they first entered the city but then let him go, arresting him again months later.
Asaad 先生的外甥，Khalid al-Homsi ，过去也是他的隔壁邻居，说圣战士刚进城时拘捕了他舅舅好几天，把他放了，几个月后又逮捕了他。
He said his uncle had supported the Assad government in Syria and had been alarmed when protesters took up arms against the government, but that he had never considered fleeing the city.
他说他舅舅曾经支持叙利亚的 Assad 政府，抗议者武装反抗政府的时候也曾感到惊慌，但是从没想过逃离。
“He was very connected to his city and to the antiquities, and he was old,” Mr. Homsi said. “Where would he want to go at that age? He said that whatever was going to happen to the people would happen to him.”
“他跟这个城市和文物关联密切，而且他年纪大了，”Homsi先生说。“在这把年纪，他要到哪儿去呢？他说别人会有什么遭遇，他就会有什么遭遇。”
As it has seized territory in Syria and Iraq, ISIS has attacked a number of historic sites, detonating tombs and destroying statues that are forbidden by its strict interpretation of Islam.
ISIS 略夺了在叙利亚和伊拉克的领土之后，攻击了好几个历史遗址。他们引爆炸弹，毁坏严格伊斯兰教义所禁止的一些雕像。
In the photo of Mr. Asaad’s dead body, red writing on a white placard suspended from his waist calls Mr. Asaad an “apostate” and lists his alleged crimes, including representing Syria at “infidel conferences,” serving as “the director of idolatry” in Palmyra, visiting Iran and communicating with a brother in the Syrian security services.
从Asaad先生尸首的照片上看到，挂在他腰间的一个白底红字牌子说Asaad先生是个“叛教者”，并列举他的罪名，如：在异教徒的会议中议论叙利亚，在 Palmyra 充当偶像崇拜的首领，访问伊朗和与在叙利亚保安机关的兄弟联系。
Before the jihadists entered the city, museum workers moved many of its most precious artifacts to safer parts of the country. Some larger pieces left behind have been destroyed, as have a number of tombs in the area.
在圣战士进城之前，博物馆的工作人员将许多最珍贵的古物搬到较安全的地方。一些留下的大型物件已被损毁，一些当地古墓也遭破坏。
The jihadists are not believed to have significantly damaged the city’s ruins, and some think they are using them for protection, assuming that the United States-led military coalition that is bombing the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria will not bomb a Unesco heritage site.
一般相信圣战士没有严重地破坏城中的遗迹，有人认为：他们利用古迹作为保护，以为轰炸伊拉克与叙利亚境内伊斯兰国的联合国领导的联军不会炸一个教科文组织认定的文明遗迹。