When the first “Martyrs’ Wives” residence opened in Ramtha, Jordan, in 2012, local residents and Islamic charities embraced the Syrian refugee widows and families who lost husbands fighting the Assad government. About a dozen of these buildings have sprung up near the Syrian border, a testament to the almost 200,000 lives lost in the conflict.
2012年，当第一批“烈士遗孀”住宅楼在约旦拉姆萨开放时，当地居民和伊斯兰慈善机构纷纷对这些逃难的叙利亚孀妇和家属表示接纳——这些人的丈夫在抗击阿萨德政府的过程中牺牲。叙利亚边境附近出现了十多座这种建筑，是导致近20万人丧生的这场冲突的一种见证。
But instead of being honored guests, the survivors of these observant Muslim men are increasingly seen as an unwelcome burden. The costs of helping refugees is straining the economies of the countries that neighbor Syria. And yesterday’s “freedom fighters” are now seen in a more complicated way. The more militant religious factions that many of the husbands fought with are considered potentially dangerous for Jordan and for many of the Gulf nations supporting Islamic charities.
但是，这些严守规矩的穆斯林男子的未亡人非但没有被当做尊贵的客人，反而日益被视作不受欢迎的负担。帮助难民的开支正在影响叙利亚邻国的经济发展。而且，人们对昨日的“自由斗士”有了更复杂的看法。许多人的丈夫为之奋战的较为激进的宗派，如今被认为可能会对约旦，以及许多支撑伊斯兰慈善机构的海湾国家造成威胁。
Tanya Habjouqa, a Jordanian-born and Texas-raised photographer, has been documenting the lives of several of these women and their families for the last two years. Along with the reporter Suha Maayeh, she has gained their trust, obtaining a rare, intimate view of these women — who cover themselves totally except for their eyes the few times they venture outside.“They can’t leave, they can’t show their faces and they can’t show their bodies,” Ms. Habjouqa said. “These are women that you rarely gain access to but it was so hard to tell their stories visually. It took a lot of banging my head against the wall to figure out what would make them feel safe.”
坦娅·哈布朱卡(Tanya Habjouqa)是一名在约旦出生、在美国德克萨斯州长大的摄影师。过去两年，她一直在记录其中几名女性及她们家人的生活。她与记者苏哈·马耶(Suha Maayeh)一起取得了她们的信任，由此才得以罕见地近距离观察这些女子——在斗胆外出时，她们会把自己完全包裹起来，只把双眼露在外面。“她们不能离开，不能露出脸，不能暴露身体，”哈布朱卡说。“几乎无法接近她们，从视觉角度来讲述她们的故事也非常困难。我绞尽脑汁才弄明白怎样才能让她们觉得安全。”
The women are “extremely vulnerable,” she said, because the conflict in which their husbands died is no longer considered a revolution but a complex civil war with sectarian and religious overtones.
这些女人“非常脆弱”，她说，因为她们的丈夫为之献身的冲突不再被人当做一场革命，而是成了一场充满派别与宗教含义的复杂内战。
Now the widows rarely go out except to the market, because they fear being preyed upon by local men. Their daughters quit going to school at age 10 or 11 and spend their days sitting at home with little to do. One teenager told Ms Habjouqa that she spent her days “looking at the rug and counting ants.”
如今，因为担心遭当地男子侵犯，除了去集市，这些孀妇很少出门。她们的女儿在10或11岁就会辍学，然后待在家里，无所事事。一名少女告诉哈布朱卡，她每天消磨时光的方法就是“盯着地毯数蚂蚁”。
Unable to work, the women live in poverty and are completely reliant on the Islamic charities that run the buildings. There is a strict sundown curfew, and rules for the female residents prohibit high heels, plucking eyebrows and even chewing gum.
由于无法工作，这些女人生活贫困，完全依赖于运营这些建筑的伊斯兰慈善机构。日落之后，这里会严格实行宵禁，而且针对女性住户的规定禁止她们穿高跟鞋、修眉毛，甚至嚼口香糖。
Some of the widows chafe under the rules enforced by the Islamic charities, while others accept them as appropriate for their religious beliefs in order to protect their modesty.
有些孀妇对伊斯兰慈善机构执行的规定感到不满，其他人则全盘接纳，认为这些规定符合她们的宗教信仰，是为了维护她们的庄重感。
Almost all of the women would not allow Ms. Habjouqa to photograph their faces, although some agreed that girls younger than 10 could show their faces. Most said that was for religious reasons, but some also did not want the charities that run the buildings to know they had allowed journalists inside. Ms. Habjouqa befriended several of the widows, but had to operate under severe restrictions. In deference to her subjects’ safety concerns, Ms. Habjouqa is using only their first initials in her story.
几乎所有女性都不允许哈布朱卡拍摄她们的面部，虽然有些人同意10岁以下的女孩可以把脸露出来。大部分人表示，这是出于宗教原因，但是还有人是因为不想让运营这些建筑的慈善机构知道她们曾让记者进入。哈布朱卡与其中几名孀妇成了朋友，但是不得不在严格的限制下行动。考虑到对方的安全顾虑，哈布朱卡在故事中只用了她们名字的首字母。
The women are different from their chronicler, who is married to a Palestinian lawyer, has two small children and divides her time between Israel and Jordan. Ms. Habjouqa describes herself as much more liberal than her subjects, but adds that they often surprised her.
这些女人与她们的记录者不同。哈布朱卡嫁给了一名巴勒斯坦律师，有两个年幼的孩子，经常往来于以色列与约旦之间。哈布朱卡说，与她的拍摄对象相比，自己的自由主义色彩要浓厚得多，但她还说，她们经常让她吃惊。
“These women are some of the most sexually frank of any women that I have ever encountered in my life,” she said, “and they are quite dark and funny.”
“她们是我一生中所遇到的在性方面最直白的女人，”她说，“而且她们非常沉郁，也很有趣。”
They are also practical and understand the dangers of their situation. It is common for foreign donors to come by and offer their assistance — and then inquire if they have any teenage daughters available for marriage. While none of the widows have allowed daughters under 15 to be wed, they know that marriage may be the only way out of their current impoverished and vulnerable circumstances. Actually, the occasional small wedding party supplies the only social distraction for these women, Ms. Habjouqa said, with the most common gifts being lingerie or the occasional hair-removal device.
她们也很实际，知道自身处境的危险性。经常有外国捐赠者前来提出给予帮助——然后问她们是否有十多岁的女儿可以出嫁。虽然没有哪个孀妇曾经允许15岁以下的女儿嫁人，但她们知道，婚姻可能是帮她们逃脱目前的贫困和弱势地位的唯一途径。哈布朱卡说，其实，偶尔举行的小型婚礼会为这些女性提供唯一的社交消遣，最常见的礼物就是女式内衣，偶尔会是脱毛工具。
In September, one of her teenage subjects who had sworn that she would marry for love agreed to become the second wife of a well-off Saudi. She told Ms. Habjouqa that she had “no other choice but dying slowly in the apartment.”
今年9月，作为她拍摄对象的一名少女同意嫁给一个富裕的沙特阿拉伯人当二老婆——她曾发誓要为爱结婚。她告诉哈布朱卡，自己“没有其他选择，恐怕只能在公寓里慢慢死去”。