WASHINGTON — As the Obama administration makes a case for punitive airstrikes on the Syrian government, its strongest card in the view of some supporters of a military response may be the need to send a message to another country: Iran. If the United States does not enforce its self-imposed “red line” on Syria’s use of chemical weapons, this thinking goes, Iran will smell weakness and press ahead more boldly in its quest for nuclear weapons.
华盛顿——在奥巴马政府阐述对叙利亚政府发动惩罚性空袭的理由之际，一些支持采取军事措施的人认为，政府最有说服力的一条理由是需要向另一个国家传递一个讯息，这个国家就是伊朗。如果美国不执行自己在叙利亚使用化学武器一事上设定的“红线”标准，照这个思路下去，伊朗会嗅到软弱的气息，进而更大胆地推进对核武器的探索。
But that message may be clashing with a simultaneous effort by American officials to explore dialogue with Iran’s moderate new president, Hassan Rouhani, in the latest expression of Washington’s long struggle to balance toughness with diplomacy in its relations with a longtime adversary.
然而这样一种讯息和寻求同伊朗温和派新总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)开展对话的努力又有可能是相冲突的。在同伊朗这个长期敌人的关系上，华盛顿方面一直挣扎着试图达到强硬和外交相平衡，寻求对话就是这种意愿的最新表达。
Two recent diplomatic ventures have raised speculation about a possible back channel between Washington and Tehran. Last week, Jeffrey Feltman, a high State Department official in President Obama’s first term who is now a senior envoy at the United Nations, visited Iran to meet with the new foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, and discussed possible reactions to an American airstrike in Syria.
最近的两次外交尝试令外界猜想华盛顿和德黑兰可能会建立一个秘密沟通渠道。上周，奥巴马总统第一届任期内的国务院(State Department)高官、联合国现任高级大使杰弗里·费尔特曼(Jeffrey Feltman)前往伊朗，同伊朗新任外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)会面，讨论如果美国对叙利亚发动空袭，伊朗可能会做出什么反应。
At the same time, the sultan of Oman, who has often served as an intermediary between the United States and Iran, was in Tehran meeting with Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
与此同时，阿曼的苏丹也在德黑兰同伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)举行会谈。他经常充当美国和伊朗的中间人。
Neither Mr. Feltman nor Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said of Oman has said anything about carrying messages between the two governments. Still, those overtures, along with some surprisingly mild noises from Iranian leaders, have raised hopes that Washington may be able to thread the needle — to strike Syria without compromising efforts toward an Iranian-American détente before meetings at the United Nations General Assembly this month.
费尔特曼和阿曼苏丹卡布斯·本·赛义德·阿勒赛义德(Qaboos bin Said al Said)均绝口不提为两国政府传话的事。但这些前奏，以及伊朗领导人发出的出人意料的温和声音，给人感觉美国或许有希望在本月联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的会面前完成一项艰难的任务：在不危及美伊关系缓和进程的前提下，对叙利亚进行军事打击。
Those hopes may well be premature: even if Mr. Rouhani and his foreign minister are eager for a deal ending the dispute over the future of Iran’s nuclear program, it is far from clear that they would be able to deliver one. Negotiations have been stalled since last year, and final authority on foreign policy rests with Ayatollah Khamenei. The Iranian president’s hand, whatever his politics, is weakened further during national security crises, analysts say, and hard-liners are likely to be empowered.
这些希望很有可能为时过早：即使鲁哈尼和他的外长急于达成一项协议，结束围绕伊朗核计划的未来而起的争端，他们能否兑现承诺也很难说。谈判从去年开始就被搁置了，外交政策上的最终决断也取决于阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊。分析人士称，不管总统鲁哈尼的政治观点是什么，他的权力在国家安全危机中已经被进一步削弱了，强硬派可能会因此得势。
Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Rouhani — who has declared his goal of resolving tensions with the West and bringing “more transparency” to nuclear talks — is vulnerable to domestic conservatives, who still blame him for having signed an agreement in 2003 opening Iran to United Nations inspectors.
和奥巴马一样，鲁哈尼宣称自己的目标是缓和同西方的紧张局势并让核谈判“更透明”，这令他很容易受到国内保守派的攻击。鲁哈尼在2003年签订了一项允许联合国调查员进入伊朗的协议，国内保守派至今对此事不依不饶。
“I am convinced that Rouhani and Zarif want to overcome the hostility between the U.S. and Iran, but a military strike on Syria could be a spoiler,” said Hossein Mousavian, a former nuclear negotiator for Iran who is now a visiting scholar at Princeton University.
伊朗前核谈判代表侯赛因·穆萨维安(Hossein Mousavia)说，“我确信，鲁哈尼和扎里夫想化解美国和伊朗之间的敌意，可是，对叙利亚的军事打击可能会是一个破坏因素。”穆萨维安目前是普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)的访问学者。
Nuclear weapons aside, the debate over chemical weapons has raised questions about the strength of Iran’s commitment to the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Iran suffered terrible losses to chemical weapon strikes during its decade-long war with Iraq in the 1980s, and the issue is a delicate one for many Iranians. Mr. Rouhani aroused some controversy last week by strongly condemning the use of chemical weapons in Syria on his English-language Twitter feed, without saying who used them.
撇开核武器不谈，关于化学武器的争论已经引发外界的疑问，让人质疑伊朗对叙利亚的巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)政府的支持力度有多大。20世纪80年代，在长达十年的两伊战争中，伊朗因为化学武器攻击遭受了巨大的损失，对许多伊朗人而言，化学武器问题是一个需要小心处理的问题。上周，鲁哈尼引发了一些争议，原因是他在英文Twitter账户上发帖，强烈谴责叙利亚动用了化学武器，但他没有点明是谁动用了化学武器。
Mr. Zarif made similar comments on his Facebook page, and others went further, including a former Iranian diplomat who suggested that Iran should not put all its eggs in one basket. Iran’s former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was quoted in Iranian state media accusing Mr. Assad of using chemical weapons on his own people, though the government later disavowed those comments.
扎里夫在他的Facebook页面做出了类似的评论，还有一些人的言论则更进一步，其中包括一名伊朗前外交官，此人表示，伊朗不应该把所有鸡蛋放一个篮子里。伊朗国家媒体援引伊朗前总统阿里·阿克巴尔·哈什米·拉夫桑贾尼(Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani)的话，谴责阿萨德对自己的人民动用了化学武器，尽管政府后来否认了这些评论。
But Syria remains an essential ally for Iran, and a crucial link with Hezbollah, the Shiite movement based in Lebanon. There is no sign that Iran’s leaders are backing off; an Iranian delegation visited Mr. Assad in Damascus on Sunday to reaffirm their country’s commitment. But with the Iranian economy in tatters, the military support to Syria is costly.
然而，叙利亚依然是伊朗必不可少的一位盟友，依然是和总部位于黎巴嫩的真主党(Hezbollah)联系的重要纽带。没有迹象显示伊朗领导人会袖手旁观；本周日，到大马士革拜访阿萨德的一支伊朗代表团重申了伊朗对叙利亚的承诺。不过，鉴于伊朗经济陷于瘫痪，其对叙利亚的军事支持代价不菲。
“The question is, If things go badly for Assad on the battlefield, at what point would Iran let the rope go?” said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, the director of the Middle East studies program at Syracuse University.
雪城大学(Syracuse University)中东研究项目主任迈赫尔扎德·布鲁杰迪(Mehrzad Boroujerdi)说，“问题是，如果战事变得对阿萨德不利，伊朗会在哪个节点上放手？”
If more evidence emerged that Mr. Assad’s military had used chemical weapons, that would raise the political cost of continuing to support him, Mr. Boroujerdi added.
布鲁杰迪还说，如果有更多的证据出现，显示阿萨德的军队已经使用化学武器，那将提升继续支持阿萨德的政治成本。
One thing is clear: the rhetoric from Iran’s leaders has shifted from earlier this year, when high-ranking Iranian officials said a foreign attack on Syria would be treated as an attack on Iran itself. There may even be some relief at the prospect of more direct American involvement in the Syrian conflict, which has occasionally been cast as “Iran’s Vietnam,” some analysts say.
有一件事是清楚无误的：今年早些时候，伊朗高官说，外国攻击叙利亚将被等同为攻击伊朗本土，在那以后伊朗领导人的措辞发生了转变。一些分析人士说，对于美国更直接地介入叙利亚冲突的前景，伊朗甚至感到有些宽慰，这场冲突偶尔会被描述成“伊朗的越战”。
For all their mutual antipathy, the United States and Iran may ultimately find common ground in Syria.
尽管美伊相互厌恶对方，最终，他们可能还是会在叙利亚问题上找到共同点。
“The United States and Iran are fighting a zero-sum proxy war in Syria at the moment,” said Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “If and when Assad falls, the two sides will have a mutual adversary in radical Sunni jihadists.”
卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)伊朗事务分析员卡里姆·萨德杰普尔(Karim Sadjadpour)说，“此刻，美国和伊朗正在叙利亚进行一场零和结果的间接战争，当阿萨德垮台时（如果他垮台的话），双方将会拥有一个共同的对手，那就是极端的逊尼派(Sunni)圣战分子。”