She is a 7-year-old with dimples, pink hair ribbons, a missing front tooth and halting English who first captured global attention three months ago with Twitter messages about bombs, death and despair in eastern Aleppo, the rebel-held section of the Syrian city.
她今年7岁，长着一对酒窝，头戴粉色蝴蝶结，门牙缺了一颗，英语结结巴巴。三个月前，她通过Twitter讲述关于炸弹、死亡和绝望的事，获得了全世界的关注，她描述的是被叛军控制的叙利亚城市阿勒颇(Aleppo)东部地区的状况。
The girl, Bana al-Abed, has since attracted more than 220,000 followers on Twitter, where her account says it is managed by her mother, Fatemah, who also posts messages there. Bana’s Twitter followers include best-selling author J.K. Rowling, who was so taken with her story of survival that she sent her Harry Potter e-books. Western news organizations have produced articles and television segments extolling Bana’s pluckiness in the face of fear, and she was the subject of a New York Times column in October.
此后这个名叫芭娜·阿拉拜德(Bana Alabed)的女孩在Twitter上吸引了22万粉丝，据说她的帐户由她母亲法蒂玛(Fatemah)打理，后者也会在Twitter上发文。畅销书作家J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)是芭娜的Twitter粉丝之一，她被芭娜的求存故事深深吸引，并为其发去了《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)的电子书。西方媒体纷纷刊发文章或者制作电视片，颂扬芭娜面对恐惧时的勇气；《纽约时报》10月份的一篇专栏文章就是以她为主题。
So when Bana’s Twitter account, @AlabedBana, was deactivated last weekend as Syrian military forces advanced into eastern Aleppo, many worried that she had been killed — only to learn Tuesday that the account had reappeared.
因此，当叙利亚部队在阿勒颇东部地区节节推进，芭娜的Twitter帐户@AlabedBana于上周末删号时，很多人都担心她已经遇难——不过到了周二，该帐户又恢复了。
And in a new posting Wednesday, Bana’s account suggested Syrian ground troops had seized her neighborhood.
在周三的一条推文中，芭娜的帐户暗示叙利亚地面部队控制了她所在的社区。
Images of suffering children in Syria have occasionally punctured the world’s conscience even as it has grown accustomed to the violence of the country’s nearly 6-year-old conflict. Like Alan Kurdi, a 2-year-old Syrian whose drowned body was discovered on a beach in Turkey, and Omran Daqneesh, dazed and bloodied after his home in Aleppo was bombed, Bana has touched a nerve.
叙利亚境内的冲突已经持续了六年，世人对那里的暴力日渐麻木，但偶尔还是会被饱受苦难的叙利亚儿童的影像刺痛良知。像阿兰·库尔迪(Alan Kurdi)和奥姆兰·达克尼什(Omran Daqnees)一样，芭娜触动了人们的神经。库尔迪是一名溺亡的两岁叙利亚幼童，其遗体在土耳其的海滩上被人发现；达克尼什则是因为在阿勒颇的家遭到轰炸，被救出时满脸迷惑、满身是血。
But in an era of internet hoaxes, fabrications and the increased use of fake news around the world to further political agendas, Bana’s Twitter account has also raised some questions of veracity and authenticity.
但在这个互联网骗局和谎言层出不穷，假新闻在世界各地被越来越多地用于推进政治议程的时代，芭娜的Twitter账户也引发了关于其真实性的质疑。
Her messages are sophisticated for a 7-year-old, for example, particularly for one whose native language is not English.
譬如，对于一个7岁的孩子，尤其是一个母语并非英语的7岁孩子来说，她的一些推文太复杂。
Others have disarming grammatical errors that invite sympathy.
还有一些则存在让人放下戒心的语法错误，似乎是有意博取同情。
Some people have questioned whether the videos in which Bana speaks were rehearsed or altered.
有人怀疑芭娜说话的视频是经过排练或改动的。
The inaccessibility of much of the Syria conflict to journalists, who often have no way of confirming the provenance of information directly, has amplified those concerns.
由于记者基本上无法近距离观察叙利亚冲突，常常无法直接确认信息的出处，这种担忧被放大了。
According to Bana’s mother, who describes herself as a 26-year-old teacher of English and who has spoken with The New York Times via Skype and WhatsApp, the Twitter postings originated in eastern Aleppo, where Fatemah said she lived with Bana and her two younger children, Mohamed, 5, and Noor, 3.
芭娜的母亲法蒂玛自称是一名26岁的英语教师，她已经通过Skype和WhatsApp跟《纽约时报》进行过交流。按照法蒂玛的说法，这些Twitter帖子发自阿勒颇东部地区，她和芭娜以及两个更年幼的孩子——5岁的穆罕默德(Mohamed)，3岁的努尔(Noor)——一起生活在那里。
All appear in photographs and videos posted by the @AlabedBana account. But Bana is the only one who spends significant time on camera or who speaks to the audience in English. She appears in many of the clips to be reading from a card or to have memorized lines.
他们都曾出现在@AlabedBana发布的照片和视频里。但芭娜是唯一一个花大量时间面对镜头以及跟观众说英语的人。在很多视频里，她看上去是在照着卡片读或是背诵。
Fatemah, who says she taught Bana to speak English, appears to be digitally astute in photographing and recording her daughter. However, a handful of videos on Bana’s account seem to have been filmed by local citizen journalists with better-quality cameras.
法蒂玛说，是她教会芭娜说英语的。从她为女儿拍的照片和视频来看，她似乎对数字技术颇为精通。不过，芭娜的账户上有几则视频似乎是由当地的公民记者用品质更高的摄像机拍摄的。
Bana and family members also were shown in a documentary broadcast in France last month about Aleppo, produced by Sept à Huit, a leading French magazine.
芭娜及其家人还曾在一部关于阿勒颇的纪录片里现身。上个月在法国播出的这部片子是由法国知名杂志《7点到8点》(Sept à Huit)制作的。
Anti-government activists and doctors working in eastern Aleppo have corroborated, through Skype and WhatsApp, that Bana and her mother are who they say they are. But Bana’s Twitter account has also drawn an inordinate number of trolls and voices sympathetic to the Syrian government and its Russian backers, who assail Bana as a fraud.
反政府活动人士以及在阿勒颇东部地区工作的医生通过Skype和WhatsApp证实，芭娜和她母亲的身份与她们自己的陈述没有出入。但芭娜的Twitter账户也引来了大批发表煽动性言论以及同情叙利亚政府及其俄罗斯支持者的人，他们把芭娜斥为骗子。
Some have called Bana’s father a violent jihadi affiliated with al-Qaida-linked fighters ensconced in eastern Aleppo. Others have called Bana and her mother fictions created by the United States as a propaganda tool to malign the Syrian and Russian governments.
一些人宣称，芭娜的父亲是一名暴戾的圣战者，隶属于一个驻扎在阿勒颇东部地区、跟基地组织有牵连的武装组织。另外一些人宣称，芭娜和她母亲是由美国虚构出来的人物，是其抹黑叙利亚和俄罗斯政府的宣传工具。
There is some precedent for such cynicism, and a notable example also had a Syrian connection. In 2011, a woman who described herself as a lesbian blogger using the pseudonym Amina Arraf wrote about political persecution in Damascus, the capital, and suddenly disappeared.
这种嘲讽所涉及的情况并非没有出现过，一个著名的例子也和叙利亚有关。2011年，一个自称是女同博主的女人以阿米娜·阿拉夫(Amina Arraf)为笔名，撰文介绍叙利亚首都大马士革的政治迫害情况，然后突然消失了。
The “gay girl in Damascus,” as the blogger came to be known, turned out to be a 40-year-old American man from Georgia.
事实证明，这名人称“大马士革同性恋女孩”的博主，是一名时年40岁、来自乔治亚州的美国男子。
Twitter has designated Bana’s account as “verified” — meaning that the company has established the authenticity of the account holder. Besides talking with Bana’s mother, The New York Times has been able to verify, through comparisons with satellite maps, that at least some videos posted from Bana’s Twitter account were filmed in Al Shaar, a neighborhood in eastern Aleppo.
Twitter将芭娜的账户标记为“已认证”——这意味着该公司已经确定了帐户持有者身份的真实性。除了跟芭娜的母亲交流过，《纽约时报》还通过比照卫星地图得以验证，芭娜的Twiter帐号上的视频至少有一部分是在阿勒颇东部的沙尔(Al Shaar)录制的。
But it is unclear whether all of her Twitter posts — which could be put online from anywhere, by anyone with Bana’s password — originated in eastern Aleppo. Nor is it clear how many posts Bana has composed herself.
但目前尚不能确定，她的推文——可以由任何一个知道其密码的人在任何地方发出——全都源自阿勒颇东部地区。也不能确定有多少推是芭娜自己撰写的。
Bana’s mother did not immediately respond to requests via WhatsApp for clarification on these questions.
在WhatsApp上被问及这些问题时，芭娜的母亲未立即回应。
International aid advocates have expressed mixed feelings about Bana’s fame — satisfaction that she has increased global sympathy for child victims in Syria, but concern that her story, as presented on Twitter, may not be entirely accurate.
国际援助领域的倡导人士对芭娜的声名鹊起有着复杂的感受：让他们感到欣慰的是，因为芭娜的缘故，国家社会更加同情叙利亚的受害儿童；但他们担心，在Twitter上呈现出来的芭娜的故事或许不尽准确。
“Whether it’s Bana, or Alan Kurdi, or Omran Daqneesh, they bring attention to an issue in a way that helps people visualize a little more clearly the situation of children,” said Sonia Khush, the Syria director of Save the Children.
“不论是芭娜、阿兰·库尔迪还是奥姆兰·达克尼什，他们都引发了对某个问题的关注，进而让世人对儿童生存状况有了更清晰一点的认知，”拯救儿童会(Save the Children)叙利亚地区主管索尼娅·胡什(Sonia Khush)说。
“In the case of this girl, I don’t know whether it’s true or fake in this age of social media,” she said. “But her living as a child in Aleppo is consistent with what we hear. The fear, the sounds of different airplanes and drones. They’re terrified and have trouble sleeping at night.”
“至于这个女孩的事情，在这个社交媒体时代我不知道是真是假，”她说。“但她作为一个孩子在阿勒颇的生存状态与我们听说的情况相符。那种恐惧，还有各种飞机和无人机呼啸而过的声音。他们非常害怕，晚上难以入睡。”
Some experts on media ethics said that, despite the appeal of such a heartbreaking narrative — and with a young girl at its center, no less — news outlets had to approach the account with skepticism, and that some had fallen short.
一些媒体伦理问题专家说，尽管这种令人心碎的叙事颇具吸引力——同样吸引人的是，其核心是一个小女孩——媒体还是必须以怀疑的态度对待这个账户，而有些媒体没有做到。
“It’s always a question of whether a 7-year-old is being used as a propaganda tool, and if so, by whom,” said Jane E. Kirtley, a professor of media ethics and law at the University of Minnesota. “Sometimes we fall in love with a concept and basically ignore things that would undermine that concept, and ignore things that should be red flags.”
“人们一直在质疑，这个7岁的孩子是否正被用作宣传工具，如果真是如此，又是谁在利用她，”明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)媒体伦理与媒体法教授简·E·柯特利(Jane E. Kirtley)说。“有时候我们会沉迷于一个观念，基本上忽略掉那些会让这一观点出现动摇的事情，忽略掉那些本该让我警醒的事情。”
She added, “For me, my antenna always goes up when the story is this compelling.”
她还表示，“就我个人而言，如果一个故事如此引人注目，我肯定会保持警惕。”