MUNICH — The failure of world powers to quell the five-year conflict in Syria, the Russian military intervention there and the spread of Islamic terrorism overshadowed an annual security conference here, which came as Europe falters ahead of a new effort to cope with its refugee crisis.
慕尼黑——各个大国未能平息长达五年的叙利亚冲突，再加上俄罗斯的军事干预，以及伊斯兰恐怖主义的传播，给在这里举行的一年一度的安全会议蒙上了阴影。这次会议的举行，还恰逢欧洲在应对难民危机的一些新举措方面犹豫不决的时候。
The somber tone of the meeting was reflected in comments Sunday by a senior German official close to Chancellor Angela Merkel who said that Russia was unlikely to respect a new accord on ceasing hostilities in Syria given the aggressive hand it has played there and the advantage it has gained by using armed force.
这次会议的沉重基调，在与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)关系密切的一名德国高层官员周日发表的评论中可见一斑。此人表示，考虑到俄罗斯在其中一直采取的强势立场，以及该国通过使用武力获得的利益，它不太可能尊重旨在终止叙利亚敌对行为的一项新协议。
Adding to the gloom, France indicated during the meeting it would not join a German plan to redistribute more refugees in Europe. Days before a new European summit, the rebuff underscored Europe’s failure to unite around a response to more than one million migrants even as Russian actions and rhetoric unsettles Europe, and particularly Germany.
让气氛更为沉重的是，法国在会议期间表明，它不打算加入德国的一项计划，即在欧洲重新分配更多难民。一次新的欧洲峰会将在几天后举行，此时法国的断然拒绝，突显了欧洲未能团结一致应对上百万移民的问题，且不说俄罗斯的行动和危言耸听已经使欧洲陷入不安，尤其是德国。
In addition to a drumbeat from Russian media that Europe’s way of life is under threat because of the migrants, Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev on Saturday warned the conference about a looming slide into a new Cold War.
在这方面，除了有俄罗斯媒体大肆宣扬欧洲的生活方式因大批移民进入而面临威胁，俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)也在周六向与会各国发出警告，存在走向一场新冷战的潜在危险。
A blunt assessment of Russia’s intentions from Norbert Röttgen, chairman of the foreign affairs committee in the German Parliament, followed biting criticism from Senator John McCain over the American-Russian accord, announced in Munich on Friday, to get aid into some Syrian regions and implement a truce plan for the devastated country.
继美国联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)对周五对外宣布的美俄协议发出尖锐批评之后，德国议会外交事务委员会主席诺伯特·勒特根(Norbert Röttgen)又对俄罗斯的意图做出了直言不讳的评价。该协议的目标是将援助物资送至叙利亚的某些地区，以及促使这个满目疮痍的国家实施停战计划。
The criticism from Mr. Röttgen and Mr. McCain came against the backdrop of news from Syria that no aid trucks had yet moved toward needy regions there and illustrated how thoroughly the Middle East chaos had dominated the conference, which usually focuses on the trans-Atlantic alliance.
勒特根和麦凯恩的批评出现的背景是，来自叙利亚的消息表明，运送援助物资的卡车不曾抵达最需要它们的地区。这些批评也显示出，这个通常将焦点放在跨大西洋联盟上的会议，如今彻底地被中东地区的混乱这一议题主导。
However, the United Nations mediator for Syria, Staffan de Mistura said Sunday that United Nations aid convoys were planned for Tuesday or Wednesday. “They will represent an initial test of the Munich commitments,” Mr. de Mistura said in an email exchange Sunday.
不过，联合国叙利亚问题调停人斯塔凡·德米斯图拉(Staffan de Mistura)周日表示，联合国计划于周二或周三派出援助车队。“这代表着对在慕尼黑做出的承诺的初步践行，”德米斯图拉在周日通过邮件进行的采访中表示。
As for a pause in fighting, he said he expected it to apply to “all areas of Syria except for areas controlled by ISIS and Al Nusra,” referring to the Islamic State militant group and the Nusra Front, which both the United States and Russia regard as terrorist groups.
至于停战问题，他表示希望这一点能在“叙利亚所有地区”实现，“除了被伊斯兰国(ISIS)和努斯拉(Al Nusra)控制的区域。”这里指的是激进团体伊斯兰国和努斯拉阵线，二者被美国和俄罗斯都视为恐怖组织。
That provision would allow Russian and Syrian forces to continue airstrikes over parts of Aleppo, where Nusra fighters are thought to be present. A State Department official said last week that different rebel groups are “intermingled” on the battlefield. President Obama spoke by phone with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Saturday to discuss the agreement made Friday and to “stress the importance of rapidly implementing humanitarian access to besieged areas of Syria and initiating a nationwide cessation of hostilities,” a statement from the White House said Sunday.
这一安排将允许俄罗斯和叙利亚武装继续对阿勒颇部分地区进行空袭，那里被认为是努斯拉阵线武装分子盘踞的地方。美国国务院一名官员上周表示，在战场上，不同的反叛团体会“混杂在一起”。白宫周日发布声明表示，奥巴马总统周六通过电话与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)讨论了周五达成的协议，并“强调了让叙利亚受困地区迅速获得人道援助，以及让整个国家开始结束敌对行为的重要性”。
“President Obama emphasized the importance now of Russia playing a constructive role by ceasing its air campaign against moderate opposition forces in Syria,” the statement said.
“奥巴马总统强调，现在让俄罗斯通过停止对叙利亚温和反对派武装的空袭，扮演一种具有建设性的角色，非常重要，”声明中写道。
Underlining the complexity of the situation in Syria, Turkey over the weekend shelled positions held by a Kurdish militia that is backed by the United States in northern Syria. Turkey’s state-run Anadolu Agency said Turkish artillery units fired at Kurdish fighters in the Syrian town of Azaz in Aleppo Province, saying it was in response to incoming Kurdish fire, The Associated Press reported.
周末期间，土耳其炮击了由美国支持的库尔德民兵在叙利亚北部的一些阵地，突显出叙利亚形势的复杂性。据美联社报道，土耳其官方的阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu Agency)表示，土耳其炮兵部队炮击了叙利亚阿勒颇省阿扎兹的库尔德武装人员，并表示此举是对库尔德武装进犯火力的回应。
Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France, meanwhile, on Saturday rejected a German proposal for a quota system for distributing refugees in Europe.
与此同时，法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)在周六驳回了德国的一项提议，即采取配额制度来分配各个欧洲国家负责安置的难民人数。
Discussion at the conference on Sunday focused on the plan to cease hostilities in Syria within a week and recriminations about the failure of the Obama administration, and others, to have intervened more forcefully or to have anticipated the spreading turmoil.
周日的会议主要讨论了在一周内实现叙利亚停火的计划，也反过来指责了奥巴马政府及其他国家的政府，没能采取更为有力的干预行动，也没有预料到会出现大规模蔓延的动乱。
Mr. McCain, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, said on Sunday he wished he could regard the truce plan as a breakthrough. More likely, he said, it was a move that “permits the assault on Aleppo to continue for another week,” thus locking in Russian military superiority and allowing the forces of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to take back more territory from rebels.
美国联邦参议院军事委员会(Senate Committee on Armed Services)主席麦凯恩周日表示，他希望自己能把停战计划看作一种突破。但他觉得这更像是“容许针对阿勒颇的袭击再延续一周”的举措，这样会进一步确立俄罗斯军队在那里的优势，也会让叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)从反对派手中夺回更多领地。
Mr. McCain, who traditionally heads the congressional delegation to Munich each year, suggested that Mr. Putin was relying on ever more powerful shows of force to reassert his country’s role as a dominant global power. “His appetite is growing with the eating,” Mr. McCain said, adding, “We have seen this movie before in Ukraine.”
基本上每年都会带领美国国会代表团参加慕尼黑会议的麦凯恩表示，普京想依靠更多地展示军事实力，来重申俄罗斯作为全球主导强国的地位。“他的胃口越吃越大，”麦凯恩说，“在乌克兰问题上，我们已经见识了这一点。”
Mr. Röttgen was also strongly critical of Russia. He urged Western powers to learn from events in Syria, particularly in regards to Europe’s security. He said that more needed to be spent on defense and that Europe, while still needing the United States, should not rely on America for its safety.
勒特根也对俄罗斯非常不满。他敦促西方大国从叙利亚的诸多事件中吸取教训，尤其是在涉及欧洲安全的问题上。他表示，欧洲需要在国防上作出更多投入，而且尽管欧洲依然需要美国，但不能单纯依赖美国来保障自身的安全。
“Russia has gained the upper hand in the region and this is by historical measure a novelty,” Mr. Röttgen said. “They have done so by the use of armed force.”
“俄罗斯在这一地区占得上风，这在过去不曾有过，”勒特根说。“他们是通过使用武装力量实现了这一点。”
Other speakers at the conference singled out the Obama administration for failing to act in 2013 after President Obama said use of chemical weapons by Mr. Assad would cross a “red line” that demanded American action.
在会上，其他发言者还把枪口单独对准了奥巴马，指出2013年表示阿萨德使用化学武器就是越过“红线”，会促使美国采取行动之后，奥巴马政府并没有真的采取行动。
Back then, Russia again intervened, using its influence to get Mr. Assad to agree to put all chemical weapons under United Nations supervision for removal and destruction. Mr. McCain said that that move had destroyed Washington’s credibility, particularly with Saudi Arabia, who he claimed had planes ready to fly air raids on Syria when Mr. Obama accepted the Russian-backed plan on chemical weapons.
当时，俄罗斯再次介入，利用其影响力让阿萨德同意在联合国监督下，将所有化学武器进行清除或销毁。麦凯恩表示，此举损坏了华盛顿的信誉，尤其是对沙特阿拉伯而言。他声称，沙特已经准备好派战机对叙利亚发起空袭的时候，奥巴马却接受了俄罗斯支持的清除化学武器的计划。
Tammam Salam, the prime minister of Lebanon, a country of 4.5 million people that is sheltering 1.5 million Syrians, recalled that he had tried in vain last year to warn the same conference of the consequences “if you don’t do something serious, and quick.”
有450万人口的黎巴嫩先后收留了150万名叙利亚难民。该国总理塔马姆·萨拉姆(Tammam Salam)回忆，去年在同一会议上，他曾警告，“如果你们不快速采取严肃的行动”，就会产生后果。