BEIRUT, Lebanon — To the starving residents and rebel fighters in the bitterly contested suburbs of Damascus, the offer from the Syrian government can be tempting enough to overcome their deep mistrust: a cease-fire accompanied by the delivery of food supplies, if they agree to give up their heavy weapons and let state-run news media show the government’s flag flying over their town.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——对于大马士革战事焦灼的郊区那些饥肠辘辘的居民和反对派士兵而言，叙利亚政府的提议足以引诱他们克服心中深深的不信任感。协议是这样的：只要他们同意交出重型武器，并且允许国有媒体展示政府的旗帜在他们的地盘上飘扬，就能达成停火，并获得粮食供应。
However, residents and rebel officials in some of the communities described in interviews a disturbing pattern in which the government has used the cease-fires as cover for an operation intended to attain a victory it could not achieve any other way.
不过，来自部分社区的居民与反对派官员接受采访的时候，勾勒出了一种令人不安的模式：政府利用停火作为幌子，目的是赢得其他方式无法达成的胜利。
Secretary of State John Kerry and Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said this week they would work for localized cease-fires — or rather, an internationally backed version of them — ahead of peace talks on Syria scheduled to open next week in Switzerland. Mr. Kerry on Thursday also offered an unusual assurance that the United States had not pulled back from its goal of establishing a transitional government that did not include President Bashar al-Assad.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)本周表示，两人将在下周在瑞士开启的叙利亚和谈之前，为起草局部停火协议而努力，或者更准确地说，是国际社会支持的局部停火。周四的时候，克里还非比寻常地保证，美国并未放弃成立一个将巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)排除在外的过渡政府的目标。
For Russia, the strategy builds on its effort to portray Mr. Assad as a responsible leader whom the West can deal with, begun last year with the deal to dispose of Syria’s chemical weapons.
对俄罗斯而言，该策略建立在努力将阿萨德塑造为西方可以打交道的负责人的领导人之上。这一策略始于去年达成的销毁叙利亚化学武器的协议。
The Assad government, for its part, capitalizing on recent insurgent infighting to make advances on the outskirts of the northern city of Aleppo, is eager to portray itself as offering mercy from a position of strength.
阿萨德政府本身，则在利用反对派武装近期的内斗，在北部城市阿勒颇的外围推进。它非常想把自己塑造为宽宏大量的强者。
But up to now, rebels and civilians say, the picture is far different. The government rains aerial attacks on areas that refuse cease-fire offers. People in places that accept can find themselves facing new demands: to turn over wanted men, give up their light weapons and accept a military governor. Food is delivered piecemeal to retain the government’s leverage.
然而，从反对派与平民的说法看来，截至目前，实际情况与之相去甚远。政府用密集空袭对付拒绝停火提议的地区，而接受了的地方则会发现自己面临新的要求：交出政府通缉的人员、放弃轻型武器，并且接受军事首领的管辖。粮食是以零敲碎打的方式供应的，为的是保持政府的议价能力。
Rather than a mutually agreed cease-fire, one rebel leader said, it seemed “more like surrender.”
一名反对派领导人称，这不是什么双方取得共识的停火，而“更像是投降”。
For cease-fires to become the start of a peace process, said Michael Wahid Hanna, a Middle East analyst at the Century Foundation, they must offer rebel-held areas meaningful local autonomy and be enforced by Russia with the same muscle it applied to the chemical deal. Up to now, they have been negotiated between local leaders and government-approved mediators with no known international involvement.
世纪基金会(Century Foundation)的中东问题分析员迈克尔·瓦希德·汉纳(Michael Wahid Hanna)称，要想停火成为和平进程的开端，必须赋予反对派控制的地区真正意义上的地方自治权，并由俄罗斯施加与化武协议过程中同样的影响力来保障执行。截至目前，均是由地方领导人与政府批准的中间人来谈判停火协议，没有外界知晓的国际社会的介入。
In those deals, civilians have been attacked and killed while trying to flee blockaded areas after promises of safe passage. The government and rebels blame each other. The government has repeatedly given permission for aid convoys to enter, then blocked them, as people continue to suffer and even die from a lack of food and medical care.
在这类协议中，曾有平民在试图逃离封锁地区的过程中遭到攻击并丧命，尽管之前得到了安全通行的承诺。叙利亚政府与反对派互相指责对方。就在民众因缺医少食而遭受折磨、甚至身亡的情况下，政府却多次上演批准救援车队进入，而后又阻止通行的戏码。
On Monday, a relief convoy to the Yarmouk camp, home to Syria’s largest cluster of Palestinians, was forced by gunfire to turn back. The United Nations agency for Palestinian relief said that the government insisted the convoy enter through the southern gate — requiring a dangerous drive through contested territory — not the more secure, government-controlled northern one.
本周一，前往叙利亚最大的巴勒斯坦人聚居区雅尔穆克营地的救援车队因炮火攻击而被迫掉头。联合国负责巴勒斯坦人救援事宜的机构宣称，叙利亚政府坚持要求车队从必须经过战区的南门通过，而不是处于政府控制之下的更为安全的北门。
International aid workers, speaking on the condition of anonymity to protect aid projects, say that the government has shown little commitment to the politically neutral delivery of aid. Many contend that the government uses the truces more as a tool of surrender — starving people and luring them into one-sided deals — than as building blocks of compromise.
为了保护援助项目而匿名发表评论的国际援助人员表示，叙利亚政府对政治中立的援助行动几乎没有给出丝毫的承诺。许多人认为，政府在更大程度上把停战当成了诱降的工具——即先让人挨饿，再诱使他们同意一边倒的协议——而不是妥协的基石。
The government allowed a month’s supply of food to reach two besieged areas on Thursday, according to the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, apparently without conditions, days after the statements from Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov.
据叙利亚阿拉伯红新月会(Syrian Arab Red Crescent)透露，就在克里和拉夫罗夫发表声明几天后的本周四，政府似乎无条件地批准了向两处被围困的地区运送一个月的口粮。
The conditional truces elsewhere have helped the government by sowing division and mistrust inside opposition areas. In Yarmouk, the traditional Palestinian divide between the Hamas and Fatah parties has been replaced, one resident said, by a gulf between those for and against a truce.
在其他地区，有条件的停火协议在反对派控制的区域内散布了分歧和不信任，藉此帮助了政府。一名雅尔穆克居民称，当地哈马斯(Hamas)和法塔赫(Fatah)两派关于巴勒斯坦问题的传统分歧已经被支持和反对停火协议的路线分歧所取代。
“It’s a very nasty way, but it was unfortunately effective,” said Qusai Zakarya, a rebel council member in the town of Moadhamiya, who said opponents of a truce ended up appearing to deny food to residents, although it was the government that imposed the blockade.
在牟得哈米亚镇，反对派委员会成员库赛·扎卡亚(Qusai Zakarya)说，“这是一种非常卑鄙的做法，可不幸的是，它相当有效。”他还称，停火协议的反对者最终显得是在断绝居民们的粮食供应，尽管实施封锁的其实是政府。
“The message of Bashar al-Assad is, ‘I can give you food and a secure life without shelling and bombardment,’ ” he said. “Few people still believe he can be brought down. I can’t blame them because they have seen things no one can handle.”
他说，“巴沙尔·阿萨德的讯息是，‘我可以给你们提供粮食和没有炮火、没有轰炸的稳定生活。’没有几个人依然相信，他会被赶下台。我不能埋怨他们，因为他们见识了没人能搞定的局面。”
It was painful, he said, to see Mr. Assad win by starvation what he could not with arms. “It can destroy your soul before it destroys your body, make you feel helpless. This is their idea of negotiations.”
他说，看着阿萨德用饥饿赢得他用武器都无法取得的胜利，这令人感到痛苦。“这种痛苦可以在摧毁你的肉体之前，先摧毁你的灵魂，让你感到无助。这就是他们的“谈判”策略。”
In Moadhamiya, the truce efforts began with an unlikely dialogue between Mother Agnes Mariam, the nun who rose to prominence with declarations that videos of the August chemical weapons attack were staged and who now works on mediation efforts, and Qusai Zakarya, a former English student who nearly died in the chemical weapons attack. But it has dissolved into mutual allegations of lies and betrayal.
在牟得哈米亚镇，停战谈判以一场几乎不太可能发生的对话开了场，对话的一方是阿格尼斯·玛利亚姆嬷嬷(Mother Agnes Mariam)，另一方是库赛·扎卡亚(Qusai Zakarya)。因为宣称去年8月份的化学武器攻击视频是蓄意伪造的，玛利亚姆声名鹊起，她目前在做调解工作。扎卡亚曾是英语专业的学生，几乎死在化学武器攻击之下。然而，这场对话已经沦为双方相互指责对方谎话连篇、背叛民众的控诉会。
Three weeks after accepting a government cease-fire deal, Moadhamiya has received just one food shipment, residents said, enough for perhaps a meal apiece. Several thousand civilians were evacuated from the town under an earlier, equally rocky truce, but the departures stopped after shelling hit a group as they left and others disappeared into the jails of the security forces.
居民们说，接受政府的停火协议三周后，牟得哈米亚只收到了一批食物，也许只够每人吃一顿。按照更早前同样饱经坎坷才达成的停火协议，镇上疏散了数千名居民，然而，就在他们离开时，炮火击中了其中的一支队伍，疏散行动就此停了下来，而其他人则被抓进了安全部队的监狱，没了踪影。