WASHINGTON — THE documentary record regarding an attack on Syria consists of just two papers: a four-page unclassified summary and a 12-page classified summary. The first enumerates only the evidence in favor of an attack. I’m not allowed to tell you what’s in the classified summary, but you can draw your own conclusion.
华盛顿——关于打击叙利亚的文献记录仅由两份文件构成：一份是4页长的非机密简报，另一份是12页长的机密简报。前者只列举了赞成军事打击的依据。至于机密简报里有什么，我无权告诉你，但你可以自行得出结论。
On Thursday I asked the House Intelligence Committee staff whether there was any other documentation available, classified or unclassified. Their answer was “no.”
周四，我询问众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)的工作人员，是否还有任何其他机密或非机密文件。他们的答复是“没有”。
The Syria chemical weapons summaries are based on several hundred underlying elements of intelligence information. The unclassified summary cites intercepted telephone calls, “social media” postings and the like, but not one of these is actually quoted or attached — not even clips from YouTube. (As to whether the classified summary is the same, I couldn’t possibly comment, but again, draw your own conclusion.)
与叙利亚使用化学武器有关的各种简报，都是以数百份原始情报为基础的。而这份非机密简报虽然提到了被截获的电话、“社交媒体”上的帖子之类的东西，但其实并未引用或附上任何相关内容——甚至连来自YouTube的视频也没有。（至于机密简报是否也是这样，我不能发表意见，但你可以再一次自行判断。）
Over the last week the administration has run a full-court press on Capitol Hill, lobbying members from both parties in both houses to vote in support of its plan to attack Syria. And yet we members are supposed to accept, without question, that the proponents of a strike on Syria have accurately depicted the underlying evidence, even though the proponents refuse to show any of it to us or to the American public.
过去一周里，政府在国会山全力游说参众两院的两党议员投票支持其打击叙利亚的计划。主张实施军事打击的人拒绝向我们这些议员或者美国公众出示任何根本的事实依据，但却期待我们不加怀疑地相信，他们已经就此向我们做出了准确的说明。
In fact, even gaining access to just the classified summary involves a series of unreasonably high hurdles.
事实上，即便只是想接触机密简报，也需要跨越一系列不合理的高门槛。
We have to descend into the bowels of the Capitol Visitors Center, to a room four levels underground. Per the instructions of the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, note-taking is not allowed.
我们得下到国会大厦游客中心深处，进入地下四层的一个房间。按照众议院情报委员会主席的指示，不得做笔记。
Once we leave, we are not permitted to discuss the classified summary with the public, the media, our constituents or even other members. Nor are we allowed to do anything to verify the validity of the information that has been provided.
离开之后，我们无权跟公众、媒体、我们的选民，甚至其他议员讨论机密简报；也不得采取任何行动验证其所提供的信息是否准确。
And this is just the classified summary. It is my understanding that the House Intelligence Committee made a formal request for the underlying intelligence reports several days ago. I haven’t heard an answer yet. And frankly, I don’t expect one.
这还只是机密简报而已。据我了解，众议院情报委员会已于数日前正式申请调阅原始的情报报告。但我还没听说有回复。坦白讲，我根本不期待会有回复。
Compare this lack of transparency with the administration’s treatment of the Benghazi attack. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, to her credit, made every single relevant classified e-mail, cable and intelligence report available to every member of Congress. (I know this, because I read them all.) Secretary Clinton had nothing to hide.
可以把这种缺乏透明度的情况，与美国政府处理班加西(Benghazi)袭击事件时的做法对比一下。值得赞扬的是，时任国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)让每个国会议员都能接触到相关的机密电邮、电报和情报报告。（我之所以知道这个，是因为我自己通读过相关材料。）国务卿希拉里无需隐瞒任何东西。
Her successor, John Kerry, has said repeatedly that this administration isn’t trying to manipulate the intelligence reports the way that the Bush administration did to rationalize its invasion of Iraq.
她的继任者约翰·克里(John Kerry)已经一再表示，本届政府不会试图像布什政府那样操纵情报，为入侵伊拉克提供合理性。
But by refusing to disclose the underlying data even to members of Congress, the administration is making it impossible for anyone to judge, independently, whether that statement is correct. Perhaps the edict of an earlier administration applies: “Trust, but verify.”
但政府甚至拒绝向国会议员披露原始资料，使得任何人都无法独立判断相关说法是否与事实相符。某届前任政府的指令或许也适用于此：“大胆相信，小心求证。”
The danger of the administration’s approach was illustrated by a widely read report last week in The Daily Caller, which claimed that the Obama administration had selectively used intelligence to justify military strikes in Syria, with one report “doctored so that it leads a reader to just the opposite conclusion reached by the original report.”
“每日通话”(The Daily Caller)网站上周的一篇报道，阐释了政府的行事方式所存在的危险因素。这篇广为流传的报道称，奥巴马政府为了证明对叙利亚实施军事打击的正当性而选择性地使用情报——他们对一份报告“做了手脚，好让读者得出与原始报告完全相反的结论”。
The allegedly doctored report attributes the attack to the Syrian general staff. But according to The Daily Caller, “it was clear that ‘the Syrian general staff were out of their minds with panic that an unauthorized strike had been launched by the 155th Brigade in express defiance of their instructions.’ ”
据称，遭到篡改的报告把袭击事件归咎于叙利亚军队的总参谋部。但“每日通话”称，“显然，‘叙军总参谋部在第155旅公然违抗其指令发起袭击后大惊失色，不知所措。’”
I don’t know who is right, the administration or The Daily Caller. But for me to make the correct decision on whether to allow an attack, I need to know. And so does the American public.
美国政府或者“每日通话”，我不知道谁说的才是实话。但对我而言，要想针对是否同意实施军事打击做出正确决策，就必须把这件事弄明白。美国公众也需要知道真相。
We have reached the point where the classified information system prevents even trusted members of Congress, who have security clearances, from learning essential facts, and then inhibits them from discussing and debating what they do know. And this extends to matters of war and peace, money and blood. The “security state” is drowning in its own phlegm.
我们如今已经走到了这步田地：涉密信息系统甚至禁止具有安全许可的、可信的国会议员了解基本事实，并阻止他们就已知情况进行讨论和辩论。而这关乎战争与和平，金钱与鲜血。这个“安全至上的国家”正在被它自己推向深渊。
My position is simple: if the administration wants me to vote for war, on this occasion or on any other, then I need to know all the facts. And I’m not the only one who feels that way.
我的立场很简单：不论是现在还是其他时刻，如果政府想让我投票支持战争，那我必须了解全部事实。这样想的不止我一个。