BEIRUT — The evacuation of civilians and fighters from the last rebel-held part of Aleppo concluded Thursday after long delays because of frigid weather, putting all of Syria’s industrial capital back in the hands of President Bashar Assad’s forces for the first time since 2012.
贝鲁特——因天气寒冷而多次长时间推迟之后，平民和战斗人员于周四完成了从阿勒颇最后一片反对派控制区域的撤离。自2012年以来，叙利亚的这个工业中心首次完全回到总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)部队的手中。
The last buses carrying residents from eastern Aleppo left the city late Thursday night, according to the Syrian state news agency.
据叙利亚国家通讯社称，最后一批载有阿勒颇东部居民的巴士于周四深夜离开了这座城市。
Tens of thousands of people have been removed from eastern Aleppo since Dec. 15. Before the last buses left on Thursday, the Red Cross said that 34,000 people had left the city, including 4,000 fighters who had left in their own vehicles the previous night.
自12月15日以来，数万人从阿勒颇东部撤离。红十字会称，在周四最后一批巴士离开之前，已有3.4万人离开了这座城市，包括4000名战士，后者在前一天晚上搭乘自己的车辆离开。
A separate convoy was waiting to carry residents out of two pro-government villages in neighboring Idlib province that have been surrounded by rebels for years. It was unclear late Thursday whether the convoy had completed its trip.
当时，一个单独的车队在等待把邻近的伊德利卜省两个亲政府村庄的居民运走——这两个村庄已被反对派包围多年。周四晚间时，尚不清楚车队是否已完成运送。
The seizure of all of Aleppo by Assad and his allies signals a turning point in the nearly 6-year conflict.
阿萨德及其盟友完全夺回阿勒颇是近6年冲突的一个转折点。
Assad’s army relied heavily on foreign military support from Russia, Iran and Shiite militias like Lebanon’s Hezbollah to surround the rebel-held area. Months of shelling and airstrikes that killed hundreds of people and reduced entire neighborhoods to rubble finally routed the rebels and pushed the area’s inhabitants to leave under an agreement brokered by Russia, Turkey and Iran.
阿萨德的军队严重依赖外国军事支持，以包围反对派控制区，支持来自俄罗斯、伊朗以及黎巴嫩真主党等什叶派民兵组织。几个月的炮轰和空袭导致数百人死亡，将多个社区彻底夷为废墟，最终击溃反对派，并根据在俄罗斯、土耳其和伊朗斡旋下达成的协议，迫使该地区居民撤离。
Residents reached by phone and messaging apps after arriving in rebel-held areas described cold, disorderly conditions where many were struggling to find shelter.
通过电话和通讯应用程序联系上的到达反对派控制区的居民称，那里很冷，秩序混乱，很多人在努力寻找住所。
“People went from one hell to another,” said Abdul-Nasser Nadaf, a rebel fighter who had left eastern Aleppo for Idlib province. “We are all tired and the displacement was really tough. The snow and cold made things worse.”
“人们从一个地狱到了另一个地狱，”反对派战士阿卜杜勒-纳赛尔·纳达夫(Abdul-Nasser Nadaf)说。他离开阿勒颇东部，来到伊德利卜省。“我们都累了，迁徙十分艰苦。大雪和寒冷把情况变得更糟。”
Under the agreement, civilians removed from eastern Aleppo could remain in government-controlled areas or continue on to rebel-held areas elsewhere. Most have ended up in Idlib, which already held many people displaced from elsewhere in Syria, raising concerns about the humanitarian situation there.
根据协议，从阿勒颇东部撤出的平民可以留在政府控制区，或继续前往反对派控制的其他地区。大部分人去了伊德利卜省，那里已经有很多从叙利亚其他地方迁来的人，所以那里的人道主义情况令人担忧。
Staffan de Mistura, the United Nations envoy to Syria, said Thursday that only a deal to end the war could prevent a repeat of the carnage in Aleppo and protect the displaced.
周四，联合国叙利亚问题特使斯塔凡·德米斯图拉(Staffan de Mistura)表示，只有达成结束战争的协议才能防止阿勒颇的血腥杀戮重演，并保护流离失所者。
“Many of them have gone to Idlib, which could be in theory the next Aleppo,” de Mistura told reporters in Geneva.
“很多人去了伊德利卜省，那里可能会是下一个阿勒颇，”德米斯图拉在日内瓦对记者们说。