BERLIN — At dinner the other night, perusing the debacle that is Syria, a German friend observed: “It’s the post-American world; and that means chaos.” We were joined by John Kornblum, a former U.S. ambassador to Germany, whose verdict was similar: “What you’re seeing is the steady breakup of the postwar system.”
柏林——不久前的一个晚宴上，一个德国朋友分析了叙利亚问题上的灾难，他说：“这是因为世界正处于后美国时代；而这意味着混乱无序。”这时，曾担任美国驻德国大使的约翰·科恩布卢姆(John Kornblum)也加入对话，他得出了相似的结论：“我们正在看到的情况是，战后体系正在逐步瓦解。”
The United States, through its secretary of state and president respectively, promises an “unbelievably small” military response to the gassing of hundreds of Syrians by President Bashar al-Assad, then vows that “the United States military doesn’t do pinpricks,” and then backs away. Britain abandons its closest ally at crunchtime. The European Union is divided, Germany silent, France left dangling, and NATO an absentee. If there are other pillars of the trans-Atlantic alliance, do let me know.
美国国务卿和总统曾分别承诺，对于叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)毒杀数百名平民的行径，美国将作出“令人难以置信的小规模”军事回应，然后美国又誓言，美军如果动手就不会仅仅像是“针刺”。再之后，美国选择了退却。英国在关键时刻抛弃了最亲密的盟友。欧盟国家表现各异：德国一声不吭，支持美国的法国陷入孤立，北约置身事外。如果跨大西洋联盟还有别的什么支柱，请告诉我。
Vladimir Putin steps into the Western void, spurred by an off-the-cuff remark in London from John Kerry (that he himself seemed to dismiss), and suddenly Assad’s Syria promises to give up to international supervision the chemical weapons whose existence it has previously denied.
在西方国家手足无措之际，普京(Vladimir Putin)采取了行动。他是受到了美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在伦敦即席讲话的启发（克里本人似乎没把讲话内容当一回事）。于是，阿萨德政权突然同意将其此前否认存在的化学武器置于国际监督之下。
A war-weary America clutches at this Syrian straw and defers to Russian mediation; a Congressional vote on military action that President Obama seemed set to lose is postponed; Obama uses an awkward prime-time address to say dictators “depend upon the world to look the other way” when they commit atrocities — and so he will, well, pursue a “diplomatic path” for now.
疲于战争的美国紧紧抓住叙利亚危机中的这根稻草，接受了俄罗斯的斡旋；对叙利亚采取军事行动的国会投票（奥巴马总统看上去会输掉）被推迟。奥巴马在黄金时间发表了尴尬的演讲，称“独裁者（在犯下暴行的时候）指望世界睁一只眼闭一只眼”，因此，他目前会选择“外交途径”。
“The ogre,” as W.H. Auden wrote, “does what ogres can.” It is safe to say that no ogre the world over, least of all in Damascus, trembles today.
正如诗人W.H.奥登(W.H. Auden)所说，食人魔依它的本性而行。如今，可以有把握地说，全世界的食人魔都已经无所畏惧了，尤其是在大马士革。
There are always rough edges in a crisis. But message discipline on Syria from the careening Obama administration since Assad’s devastating chemical weapons attack last month has been hard to discern. As another former U.S. ambassador noted, “If these guys were building cars, you would not buy one.”
危机中难免出点差错。但自从上个月阿萨德发动致命化武器袭击以来，摇摆不定的奥巴马政府在叙利亚问题上发出的信息让人摸不着头脑。正如另一名美国前大使所说，如果这些家伙是制造汽车的，那么没人敢买他们的车。
Now it just may be that Assad, who traffics in deception and slaughter, will hand over his sulfur mustard and all the rest, sign the Chemical Weapons Convention, shake hands with Putin and get back to his civil war, having pocketed Obama’s statement that, “I don’t think we should remove another dictator with force.” It might even be that Putin, having made an impassioned case for international law, will rise above his Libyan hangover and allow a Security Council resolution framing the deal under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, which allows for military intervention in the event of Syrian noncompliance. (Without this, any agreement is meaningless.)
也许，说谎成性、杀人如麻的阿萨德将交出他的芥子气及其他化学武器，签署《禁止化学武器公约》，与普京握手，然后回过头去专心应付他的内战，因为奥巴马已经放话：“我不认为我们应该用武力再推翻一名独裁者”。也许，在激情陈述坚守国际法的重要性之后，普京将会搁置他在利比亚问题上的耿耿于怀，支持根据《联合国宪章》第七章框定的安理会决议，允许国际社会在叙利亚不顺从的情况下进行军事干预（如果缺少这一条，任何协议都没意义）。
If this occurs Obama will have dug himself out of the hole he dug himself into and something will have been gained.
如果真是这样，奥巴马就可以从自己挖的洞里爬出来了，这件事也将得到一些收获。
I am more than skeptical. The scramble reminds me of the farce during the Bosnian war that involved the Serbs handing over “all” their heavy weapons to the United Nations to avert airstrikes — and then resuming their bombardment of Sarajevo. A State Department spokeswoman had it right when she initially described Kerry’s proposal as purely “rhetorical,” because “this brutal dictator with a history of playing fast and loose with the facts cannot be trusted to turn over chemical weapons.”
但我深表怀疑。目前的忙乱让我想起了波黑战争中的闹剧：为了避免空袭，塞尔维亚人向联合国交出了“所有”重型武器，但随即对萨拉热窝恢复炮击。美国国务院的一名女发言人曾说，克里的提议纯粹是一种表态，因为“这个残暴的独裁者向来瞪眼说瞎话，不能相信他会交出化学武器”。此言说到了点子上。
The hesitancy since the chemical attack has highlighted a lack of U.S. leadership throughout the Syrian conflict. The just cause of rebels fighting the 43-year tyranny of the Assads was never backed by arming them; and when Islamist radicals moved into Syria, their presence was used to justify the very Western inaction that had fostered their arrival.
此次化学武器攻击之后的犹豫，突显了叙利亚冲突期间美国领导力的缺席。反对派试图推翻阿萨德43年暴政的正义事业，从未得到以军援为形式的实际支持；而当伊斯兰主义极端分子进入叙利亚时，他们的存在被当作西方不作为的理由，而实际上正是西方的不作为才助长了他们的出现。
The sight of a president who draws a red line on chemical attack and then says “I didn’t set a red line” (the world did); who has Kerry plead for military action only to stall; who defers to Congress but seems happy enough with Congress ambling back into session more than a week later; who notes that for “nearly seven decades the United States has been the anchor of global security,” and then declares “America is not the world’s policeman” — the sight of all this is a moment when America signaled an inward turn that leaves the world anchorless.
一名总统对化武攻击划定红线，然后说：“我没有划红线”（是世界划定的）；他让克里说明军事行动有理，最终自己犹豫不决；他要求国会授权采取军事行动，但似乎安于让国会议员在一周多之后结束休假返回华盛顿；他指出，近70年以来，美国一直是全球安全的靠山，然后又宣告，“美国不是世界警察”——这一切都标志着美国释放了一个注意力转向国内的信号，这会让世界失去靠山。
The president has reflected the mood in America. Almost two-thirds of people surveyed said the U.S. should not take a leading role in trying to solve foreign conflicts, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. Principle backed by credible force made the U.S. the anchor of global security since 1945 and set hundreds of millions of people free. Obama has deferred to a growing isolationism. His wavering has looked like acquiescence to a global power shift.
奥巴马的态度反映了美国国内的情绪。根据《纽约时报》和哥伦比亚广播公司新闻部(CBS News) 最近的调查，近三分之二的被调查者认为，美国不应该在解决海外的冲突中扮演主导角色。自1945年以来，以强大军力为后盾的原则，使美国成为全球安全的靠山，令数亿人获得了自由。如今，奥巴马接受了日益抬头的孤立主义。他的摇摆不定看上去像是对全球实力转移的默许。
In Berlin, which survived as a free city because of a U.S. red line, the change has been noted. It has also been noted in Tehran, Moscow, Beijing and Jerusalem.
在柏林，这个变化已经引起注意。当年正是因为美国划定一条红线，这座城市才保住了自由。德黑兰、莫斯科、北京和耶路撒冷也注意到了这个变化。
A letter this week on the Syrian gassing to the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel from Dr. Tewes Wischmann of Heidelberg read: “We will be asked by our children what we did against this mass murder, as we asked our parents about Nazism. We will then lower our eyes and have to remain silent.”
本周，海德堡的特维斯·威斯曼(Tewes Wischmann) 博士在寄给德国《明镜周刊》(Der Spiegel)的一封关于叙利亚毒杀平民的信中写道：就像我们询问父母有关纳粹的问题一样，我们的孩子将来会问，我们为反对叙利亚的大屠杀做了什么，那时我们只能垂下眼帘，沉默不语。