BEIRUT, Lebanon — Eyes watering, struggling to breathe, Abd al-Mouin, 22, dragged his nephews from a house reeking of noxious fumes, then briefly blacked out. Even fresh air, he recalled, was “burning my lungs.”
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——22岁的阿布德·茂因 (Abd Al-Mouin)泪流不止、呼吸困难，他将侄子们拖出冒出毒烟的房子，然后短暂昏迷了一段时间。他回想道，即便是新鲜空气，也“烧着我的肺。”
The chaos unfolded in the Syrian town of Sarmeen one night this spring, as walkie-talkies warned of helicopters flying from a nearby army base, a signal for residents to take cover. Soon, residents said, there were sounds of aircraft, a smell of bleach and gasping victims streaming to a clinic.
今年春季的一个晚上，叙利亚小镇萨尔敏陷入了混乱。步话机发出附近军事基地有直升机飞来的警告——这是让居民寻求庇护的信号。当地人说，不久就听到了飞机的声音，接着是漂白剂的味道，以及喘息着冲向救护站的受害者。
Two years after President Bashar Assad agreed to dismantle Syria's chemical weapons stockpile, there is mounting evidence that his government is flouting international law to drop cheap, jerry-built chlorine bombs on insurgent-held areas. Lately, the pace of the bombardments in contested areas like Idlib province has picked up, rescue workers say, as government forces have faced new threats from insurgents.
叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)同意移除国内化学武器储备至今已经两年，却仍有不断增加的证据显示，他领导的政府蔑视国际法，正在反对派掌控的区域投掷廉价的简易氯弹。救援工作者表示，由于政府军面临反对派的新威胁，伊德利卜省等争夺激烈的地区遭受轰炸的频率在加大。
Yet, the Assad government has so far evaded more formal scrutiny because of a thicket of political, legal and technical obstacles to assigning blame for the attacks — a situation that feels surreal to many Syrians under the bombs, who say it is patently clear the government drops them.
然而，由于政治、法律与技术上的重重障碍，难以明确这些攻击行为应归咎于哪一方，阿萨德政府至今得以规避较为正式的监督。这样的情形让许多遭到轰炸的叙利亚人觉得荒诞不经。他们说，投下这些氯弹的，明显就是政府。
“People are so used to it, they know from the sound,” said Hatem Abu Marwan, 29, a rescue worker with the White Helmets civil defense organization, a note of exasperation creeping into his voice when asked to explain. “We know the sound of a helicopter that goes to a low height and drops a barrel. Nobody has aircraft except the regime.”
“人们已经习惯了，他们听到声音就知道，”民防组织“白盔”(White Helmets)的救援工作者、29岁的哈特姆·阿布·马尔万(Hatem Abu Marwan)说。听到要求解释的提问时，他的声音中透露出怨怒。“我们知道直升机低空飞行、投掷弹筒的声音。除了阿萨德政权以外，没人拥有飞机。”
Prodded by the United States, the U.N. Security Council is discussing a draft resolution that would create a panel, reporting to the secretary-general, to determine which of the warring parties is responsible for using chlorine as a weapon, according to Council diplomats.
根据联合国安理会的外交官的说法，在美国的敦促下，安理会正在讨论建立一份决议草案。根据该草案，将建立一个直接向秘书长汇报的委员会，而它的任务就是判定交战中的哪一方应对使用氯素作为武器负责。
Syrian state media dismiss the allegations as propaganda, and the council remains divided and hamstrung. That leaves people like Abu Marwan, who has responded to nine suspected chlorine attacks, feeling abandoned.
叙利亚官方媒体驳斥这些指控是政治宣传，而安理会内部仍然意见不一，无能为力。这让阿布·马尔万这类人觉得受到了遗弃。他已在九起疑似氯气攻击事件后进行救援。
“There is no law to defend us as human beings, this is what we understand from the Security Council,” said Abu Marwan, a law school graduate, weeping as he recalled holding a dying child in Sarmeen. “I didn't see in humanitarian law anything that says `except for Syrians.”'
“安理会让我们明白，没有法律把我们当人看，”阿布·马尔万说。法学院毕业的他回想起在萨尔敏抱着濒死孩童的事情，不禁泪下。“我没看过哪部人道法写着‘叙利亚人例外’。”
In contrast to stronger toxins like nerve agents and mustard gas, chlorine is lethal only in highly concentrated doses and where medical treatment is not immediately available, making it more an instrument of terror than of mass slaughter. It is typically dropped in barrel bombs containing canisters that explode on impact, distributing clouds of gas over civilian populations, and is distinguishable by its characteristic odor.
相较于毒性较强的神经毒素与芥子气，氯素只有在高浓度且无即时治疗的情况下才会致命。因此，它更多地是制造恐慌的工具，而非用于大规模屠杀。氯素通常用桶爆弹投掷，内部的霰弹筒会在撞击下爆开，在平民之间散布毒云。它独特的气味也很容易辨认。
So it falls under a kind of loophole. With many civilian uses, like purifying water or disinfecting hospitals, it is not banned under international law and thus was not on the list of chemicals Assad promised to destroy — though using chlorine as a weapon is forbidden.
因此，此类行为是钻了一个漏洞。由于氯素涉及许多民用领域，比如净水和医院消毒，它没有被国际法禁止，也因此未列入阿萨德承诺销毁的化学品名单中——不过，使用氯素作为武器并不被允许。
The Security Council did condemn the use of chlorine as a weapon in Syria, in February. But with Russia, the Syrian government's most powerful ally, wielding a veto, there was no Council agreement to assign blame.
联合国安理会在今年2月针对叙利亚使用氯素攻击平民提出过谴责，然而作为叙利亚政府最强大盟友的俄罗斯，却行使了否决权，因此安理会无法针对究责达成共识。
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which monitors agreements on toxic arms, found that chlorine had been used “systematically and repeatedly” in three Syrian villages in 2014, and mentioned witness accounts of helicopter-borne chlorine bombs in its report. But it, too, lacked authorization to say who used them.
致力于监督化学武器使用协议执行情况的禁止化学武器组织(The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)发现，叙利亚境内三个村落在2014年“有组织且一而再地”遭受氯素。该组织还在报告中表示，有目击者指出氯弹是由直升机搭载投掷。然而，他们同样未获授权，无法点名这几起攻击的主使者。
Alistair Hay, a toxicologist at the University of Leeds who has trained Syrians to collect environmental samples, called the attacks a “slap in the face” to the international chemical weapons convention that Syria had joined less than a year earlier. Syria signed under a Russian-American deal to avoid U.S. military strikes after sarin, a nerve agent, killed more than 1,000 people in insurgent-held areas near Damascus.
英国利兹大学(University of Leeds)的毒物学家艾利斯特·海(Alistair Hay)曾指导叙利亚民众采集环境样本。他表示这几次的氯素攻击，对禁用化学武器的国际公约来说，“有如打了一记耳光”。不到一年前，叙利亚刚在美俄双方的调停下签署了该项公约，以求避免美国的军事打击。该国先前在反对派控制的大马士革郊区发生了释放沙林神经毒气的事件，导致千余人丧命。
Frustrated with the Security Council's impasse over the issue, rescue workers and doctors are now working to bring evidence of chlorine gas attacks directly to the French, British and U.S. governments for testing. The aim is to give states a solid basis for action against the attacks, in the Security Council or through quieter diplomatic pressure, said James Le Mesurier, the British director of a nonprofit group, Mayday Rescue, which trains and equips the White Helmets, Syrian volunteers supported by the British, Danish and Dutch governments.
碍于安理会在氯素攻击事件处理上迟迟没有进展，救援工作者及医生们打算将相关证据直接送交美、英、法三国政府进行检验。非营利组织Mayday Rescue的英籍总监詹姆士·勒梅苏里尔(James Le Mesurier)表示，此举是为了向各国提供有力的依据，促使它们通过安理会或更低调的外交施压来做出应对。Mayday Rescue在为英国、丹麦及荷兰政府支持的叙利亚志愿者组织“白盔”提供培训及装备。
But investigators face difficulties. Chlorine dissipates quickly in the atmosphere and does not last in blood or urine, and residue stays in soil for just 48 hours, leaving little time to transport samples across borders. Also, Le Mesurier said, the Organization for Prohibition of Chemical Weapons differentiates evidence they collect themselves from evidence collected by rescue workers, categorizing the latter as circumstantial.
然而调查人员也面临着困难：氯素在大气中很快就消散，不会留在血液或尿液里，残余物在土壤中只能存在48小时，因此没有足够时间将样本送出叙利亚境外进行检验。此外，勒梅苏里尔表示，禁止化学武器组织将救援工作者采集的样本认定为间接证据，不能跟该组织自行采集的样本同等对待。
Three other Syrian doctors said the organization's rules resulted in valuable evidence they collected going unexamined.
另外，还有三位叙利亚医生也表示，该组织的这项规定导致他们采集到了珍贵证据，最终却无法进行检验。
One, who protects his identity with the nickname “Chemical Hazem” for his safety, said he reached one of the April 2014 attack sites, Tal Minnes, within hours, smelling bleach in the air. He smuggled samples from two victims to Turkey without waiting for border clearances. But he said the OPCW refused to accept an unexploded canister, which remains in Syria.
还有一位基于个人安全要求不具名并自称“化学哈齐姆”(Chemical Hazem)的人士表示，2014年4月那次攻击后不到几个小时，他前往其中一个遇袭地点泰尔敏，在空气中闻到了漂白剂的味道。他从两位受害者身上采集样本，在未获得越境许可的情况下，将样本偷运到土耳其。不过他说，禁止化学武器组织拒绝接收未爆弹，因此这枚炸弹只能留在叙利亚境内。