ISTANBUL — The Syrian branch of Al Qaeda has acknowledged that it captured more than two dozen United Nations peacekeepers in southern Syria, saying that they were being held in revenge for what the group called the United Nations’ failure to help the people of Syria during the country’s civil war.
伊斯坦布尔——基地组织的叙利亚分支已承认在叙利亚南部扣押了40多名联合国维和人员，称关押这些人是对联合国的报复，该组织认为联合国在叙利亚内战中未能帮助该国人民。
The group, the Nusra Front, also accused the peacekeeping force, which has monitored the demarcation line between Syria and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights since 1974, of protecting Israel’s border while doing nothing to stop the killing on the Syrian side.
联合国维和部队自1974年以来，一直在监督叙利亚与以色列占领的戈兰高地之间的分界线。名为努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的组织还指责维和部队只保护以色列的边界，对叙利亚那边的屠杀袖手旁观。
The statement, released late Saturday on the Internet, contained a group photo of the captured peacekeepers, who are from Fiji, as well as a photo of their identification cards. The statement said they were being treated well and given food and medical care, but it issued no demands for their release.
周六晚在互联网上公布的声明中，有被扣押维和人员的集体照，以及他们的身份证照片，这些维和人员来自斐济。声明说，维和人员受到了良好待遇，有食物和医疗条件，但没有就释放他们提出要求。
The Nusra Front said it had 45 peacekeepers, though the United Nations had said that 44 were being detained, a discrepancy that could not immediately be explained.
努斯拉阵线说扣押了45名维和人员，但联合国曾表示有44人被关押，这个差异无法马上得到解释。
The statement was the first confirmation from the Nusra Front, one of the many groups fighting the forces of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s civil war, that it was holding the peacekeepers, who were captured on Thursday, one day after rebels seized a crossing point on the demarcation line.
努斯拉阵线是与叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府军进行内战的多个组织之一，该组织的声明是其首次确认扣押了维和部队，这个反政府武装上周三跨越分界线占领了一个过境站，并于其后一天扣押了维和人员。
Other rebels in the area had accused the Nusra Front of capturing the peacekeepers and called for their release.
该地区的其他反政府武装批评努斯拉阵线扣押维和人员，并呼吁将其释放。
The statement followed attacks by rebels believed to be the Nusra Front on two other bases used by 72 peacekeepers from the Philippines on Saturday. One group of 32 Philippine soldiers managed to flee to the Israeli side of the frontier after receiving backup, the United Nations said. On Sunday, officials from the Philippines said that about 40 Filipino peacekeepers had escaped captivity by Syrian rebels in the Golan Heights, leaving about 44 troops from Fiji in the hands of the insurgents, according to The Associated Press.
声明发布之前，据认是努斯拉阵线的反政府武装在周六袭击了两处共有72名来自菲律宾的维和人员的基地。一组32名菲律宾士兵在增援力量的支持下，得以撤到边界的以色列一侧，联合国说。菲律宾官员周日说，大约40名菲律宾维和人员从戈兰高地叙利亚反政府武装的关押下逃出，只剩下约44名斐济人仍在叛军手中，据美联社报道。
In the statement Saturday, the Nusra Front accused the United Nations of failing to help Syrians during the civil war, which has killed more than 190,000 people over more than three years.
在周六的声明中，努斯拉阵线指责联合国未能在叙利亚内战中帮助叙利亚人民，三年多的内战已导致19万人以上死亡。
“Chemical attacks did not move its decisions, nor did the barrels of death that harvested thousands of innocent souls, nor photos of torture in the depths of prisons, nor tens of massacres against women and children,” the statement said.
声明说，“化学武器的袭击未能改变其决定，那些夺去了数千无辜灵魂的杀戳也没有改变其决定，大狱中施酷刑的照片、以及对妇女和儿童的大屠杀都没有改变其决定。”
It said the agency had responded with “mere statements and empty words that completely ignored the crimes and massacres” committed by Mr. Assad’s forces.
声明说，联合国的响应只是“几纸声明和空话”，对阿萨德的部队犯下的“罪行和屠杀完全忽视”。
The statement, referring to Israel, also said that the peacekeepers worked “to guarantee security and protection for the borders of the Zionist entity, which has violated Muslim homes, while at the same time completely ignoring the blood of the Muslims that is shed daily on the other side of the border.”
声明中提到以色列时说，维和部队的工作“是确保那个复国主义实体的安全，保护其边界，不顾其对穆斯林家园的侵犯，同时完全无视边界另一边的穆斯林每天都在流血”。