BEIRUT, Lebanon — The prospect of a wider war loomed over an increasingly chaotic battlefield in northern Syria on Monday, as fast-moving clashes pitted United States allies against one another and tensions continued to grow between two major powers, Russia and Turkey.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——周一，在叙利亚北部一片日趋混乱的战场上，战火眼看就要蔓延开来，瞬息万变的冲突局势令美国的盟友们彼此对抗，俄罗斯和土耳其这两个大国之间的对峙气氛也持续加剧。
Taking advantage of fierce Russian airstrikes, Kurdish-led forces advanced headlong into shrinking rebel territory in the northern part of Aleppo Province, infuriating the insurgents and their principal backer, Turkey, which threatened “a severe response” if the Kurds moved farther.
库尔德人领导的军队利用俄罗斯开展的猛烈空袭，向阿勒颇省北部地区正不断收缩的叛军领土进发，令叛乱分子和他们的主要后台土耳其震怒。土耳其发出威胁，称如果库尔德人继续推进，他们将做出“严厉回应”。
The situation has pitted a dizzying array of warring parties against one another, vividly illustrating the notion that the enemy of my enemy is, as often as not, my enemy, too. Tensions have never been higher between Kurds and Syrian Arab rebels, who now accuse the Kurds of opportunistically attacking them in league with Russia and the Syrian government to advance their goal of seizing territory along the border with Turkey.
这种局面已经在交战各方之间引起了一系列纠葛不清的对抗，生动地表明我的敌人的敌人，很多时候也是我的敌人。库尔德人和叙利亚阿拉伯叛军之间的关系空前紧张，后者指责库尔德人乘人之危，与俄罗斯以及叙利亚政府军联合攻击他们，目的是在土耳其边境一带争夺地盘。
Those clashes are fueling a risky escalation of tensions, especially between Turkey and Russia. And they are pitting two American-backed groups against each other, since both the Kurds and many rebel groups in Aleppo receive American support.
这些冲突正在加大局势升级的可能性，尤其是土耳其和俄罗斯之间。而且这也在美国支持的两个组织之间引发了对抗，因为库尔德人和阿勒颇的很多反叛团体都得到了美国支援。
As always, caught in the middle are civilians, with four hospitals being bombed in a single day on Monday and Turkey and the Syrian insurgents accusing Russia of targeting them deliberately in an effort to drive them out of the area. Two of the hospitals were supported by Unicef, including a pediatric and maternity hospital, and at least 50 people were killed in all of the attacks, including children, said Farhan Haq, a United Nations spokesman.
平民一如既往地被夹在中间，本周一有四所医院遭到轰炸。土耳其和叙利亚叛乱分子指责俄罗斯刻意打击医院目标，企图把它们赶出该地区。联合国发言人法尔汗·哈克(Farhan Haq)说，其中两所医院是由联合国儿童基金会支援的，包括一所儿科和产科医院，共有50人在这些袭击中丧生，其中包括一些儿童。
Physicians for Human Rights, an organization that has been tracking attacks on health care workers and infrastructure amid the Syrian conflict, says that 697 health care workers have been killed in 336 attacks on medical sites, the vast majority of them carried out by the Syrian government and its allies.
医生促进人权协会(Physicians for Human Rights)对叙利亚冲突中医护人员和基础设施遭受的袭击进行了跟踪调查，该组织说，在医疗站点遭受的336次袭击中，共有697医护人员丧生，其中绝大多数袭击都是由叙利亚政府及其盟友开展的。
Two of the hospitals hit on Monday were in Azaz, a major prize in the fierce battles unfolding in Aleppo Province. One was struck by what residents and the Turkish government said was a ballistic missile. A school housing displaced people was also hit, residents said.
在阿勒颇省，战斗正在激烈进行，本周一遇袭的医院中，有两所位于该省重镇阿扎兹。居民和土耳其政府说，其中一家医院被弹道导弹击中。居民还说，一所用来安置无家可归者的学校也被击中。
The attacks came as Kurdish militias and Arab allies advanced closer to Azaz, a critical border town, and overran Tal Rifaat, a town on the road to the border from the city of Aleppo.
袭击发生的时候，库尔德民兵和阿拉伯盟友正在步步逼近边境要塞阿扎兹，并一举攻占了从阿勒颇到边境途中的小镇塔尔里法特。
Turkey, which views the Kurds as its worst enemy in the region and does not want to see more Kurdish-controlled areas along its border, shelled the advancing forces, led by the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Front, for a third day in a row.
这支正在推进的部队由库尔德人领导的叙利亚民主阵线(Syrian Democratic Front)率领，视库尔德人为该地区最大敌人的土耳其不希望看到他们在边境上控制更多区域，连续三天向这支部队发起火炮袭击。
“We will not let Azaz fall,” Turkey’s prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, told reporters on his plane en route to Ukraine, according to the semiofficial Anadolu News Agency. He threatened “a severe response” if Kurdish forces advanced on the town.
半官方的土耳其阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu News Agency)称，土耳其总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)在飞往乌克兰的途中告诉记者，“我们不会让阿扎兹陷落，”他还扬言，如果库尔德人的部队继续向阿扎兹挺进，土耳其将作出“严厉回应”。
The advances were made by the Syrian Democratic Front, whose most powerful elements are Syrian Kurdish militias, the People’s Protection Units, or Y.P.G., but which also includes some Arab forces. The United States supports the S.D.F. in battles against the Islamic State farther east, but Turkey — a crucial American ally and NATO member — considers the Y.P.G. a terrorist group.
领导这次推进的组织叙利亚民主阵线以叙利亚库尔德民兵“人民保护部队”（People's Protection Units，简称YPG）为主，但也含有一些阿拉伯部队。美国支持叙利亚民主阵线向东进发，打击伊斯兰国，但YPG被土耳其视为恐怖组织。土耳其是美国的重要盟友，也是北约成员国。
American admonitions to both the Turks and the Kurds to refrain from attacks appeared to have little immediate effect.
美国告诫土耳其人和库尔德人不要开展袭击，但似乎没有什么明显效果。
The Kurdish advances raised Turkish fears that they were aiming to unite the two Kurdish enclaves in northern Syria, now separated by a patch of Syrian rebel territory and a larger area controlled by Islamic State. The larger fear is of Kurdish separatism in southeast Turkey, which could be inflamed by the formation of a de facto Kurdish state in the chaos of northern Syria and Iraq. Mr. Davutoglu specifically declared that Turkey would not allow the enclaves to unite.
土耳其对库尔德人的推进感到不安，担心这会将叙利亚北部的两个库尔德人聚居地连成一片；目前它们是被叙利亚境内的叛军据点和伊斯兰国占领的一大块区域隔开的。更大的担忧是，这样一来，在叙利亚和伊拉克北部就形成了一个事实上的库尔德国，那么土耳其东南部的库尔德分裂分子就可能会揭竿响应。达武特奥卢明确宣布，土耳其不会允许这两个库尔德人聚居地连成一片。
Russia’s Foreign Ministry declared that Turkey, by shelling the Kurds as they battled insurgents, was providing “direct support for international terrorism.” It also insisted that the American-led coalition against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, was responsible for the hospital bombing in Maarat al-Noaman, though United States military officials said there were no coalition strikes in the area.
俄罗斯外交部宣布，土耳其在库尔德人与叛乱分子作战的时候炮轰他们，是“对国际恐怖主义的直接支持”。俄罗斯还坚称，是美国领导的打击伊斯兰国联军轰炸了迈阿赖努阿曼镇(Maarat al-Noaman)的医院，不过美国军方官员说，联军并未对该地区进行过打击。
One of the hospitals that was struck, in the town of Maarat al-Noaman, was hit by four missiles in two sets of attacks within a few minutes of one another, according to the medical charity Doctors Without Borders, which supports the site.
为迈阿赖努阿曼镇上的一所医院提供支援的医疗慈善机构无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)声称，该医院在几分钟内遭受两次袭击，被四枚导弹击中。
Both Russian and Syrian warplanes operate over the area, in the insurgent-held Idlib Province. Residents said that at least seven people were killed, including five patients, a staff member and a guard. Eight more staff members were missing in the rubble, they said, and an unknown number of patients were also missing.
俄罗斯和叙利亚战机都在这个区域开展过行动，它所在的伊德利卜省被叛军占踞。居民说，至少有七人在袭击中丧生，其中包括五名病人，一名工作人员和一名警卫。他们说至少八名工作人员失踪，被埋在瓦砾中，而且还有数目不详的病人失踪。
The charity added that about 15 other buildings had been struck in residential areas nearby.
该慈善组织还表示，附近居民区大约还有15栋建筑遭到攻击。
It was the second time in a week that a hospital working with Doctors Without Borders had been hit. The charity said an affiliated hospital was bombed on Feb. 9 in Dara’a Province in southern Syria.
这是与无国界医生合作的医院一周内第二次遭到攻击。该慈善组织表示，他们在叙利亚南部德拉省的一家下属医院在2月9日遭到轰炸。
“This appears to be a deliberate attack on a health structure, and we condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms,” Massimiliano Rebaudengo, the Doctors Without Borders head of mission, said about Monday’s strike on its affiliate. Deliberate attacks on medical facilities are forbidden under international law.
“这看来是针对医疗机构的蓄意攻击，我们对该事件予以最强烈的谴责，”无国界医生项目主管马西米利亚诺·勒巴登戈(Massimiliano Rebaudengo)提到下属医院周一遭袭事件时说。国际法禁止蓄意攻击医疗机构的行为。
The hospital had 30 beds, 54 staff members, two operating rooms, clinics and an emergency room, and its destruction leaves 40,000 people without medical care, the charity said.
该组织表示，该医院原有30个床位，54名工作人员，两间手术室、门诊室和一间急诊室，医院遭袭导致四万人无法得到医疗护理。
Three people were killed and six were injured elsewhere in Maarat al-Noaman, at the National Hospital, residents said.
居民们表示，迈阿赖努阿曼镇国立医院(National Hospital)有三人遇难，六人受伤。
Russian officials have said their country’s airstrikes do not target civilians and have not killed any, though the United States and allied insurgent groups say that Moscow has bombed indiscriminately.
俄罗斯官员曾表示，俄罗斯的空袭没有针对平民，没有导致平民死亡，但美国及与其结盟的叛乱组织表示，莫斯科方面展开了对目标不加区别的轰炸。
Syrian antigovernment monitoring groups say that Russian strikes have been the largest single cause of deaths in the war this year, and that they have killed hundreds of civilians, hitting schools, medical facilities and residential areas.
叙利亚反政府监察组织表示，俄罗斯的袭击行动是今年战争中最大的致死原因，他们杀害了数以百计的平民，袭击学校、医疗机构和居民区。
Doctors Without Borders has found its hospitals increasingly under fire in conflict zones. American airstrikes killed 42 people at an affiliated hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, last year. The charity’s hospitals have also been hit in a Saudi Arabian air campaign in Yemen.
无国界医生发现，该组织在冲突地带设立的医院遭到越来越多的攻击。去年，美国在阿富汗昆都士开展的空袭行动导致一家下属医院42人死亡。沙特阿拉伯在也门开展的空袭行动也攻击了该组织的医院。
The latest strike came amid days of escalation along the Syria-Turkey border, despite — or, experts say, perhaps because of — the United States and Russia having agreed on Thursday in Munich to work toward a cease-fire, said to be starting by the end of this week.
最新的攻击行动发生时，叙利亚-土耳其边境局势连日持续恶化，即便美国和俄罗斯周四在慕尼黑一致同意设法达成停火，据称要在本周末开始——在专家看来这可能恰恰是恶化的原因。