BAGHDAD — Sunni militants spilling over the border from Syria seized control Tuesday of the northern city of Mosul, Iraq’s second largest, in the most stunning success yet in a rapidly widening insurgency that threatens to drag the region into war.
巴格达——本周二，来自叙利亚的逊尼派武装分子越过边境，占领了位于伊拉克北部的该国第二大城市摩苏尔。武装分子的胜利令人震惊，迅速扩大的叛乱则有可能将该地区拖入战争的漩涡。
Having consolidated control over Sunni-dominated Nineveh Province, armed gunmen were heading on the main road to Baghdad, Iraqi officials said, and had already taken over parts of Salahuddin Province. Thousands of civilians fled south toward Baghdad and east toward the autonomous region of Kurdistan, where security is maintained by a fiercely loyal army, the peshmerga.
在逊尼派占多数的尼尼微省，武装分子已经巩固了对那里的控制，现在他们正在通往巴格达的主要道路上前进，并且已经占据了萨拉赫丁省的部分地区，伊拉克官员说。数以千计的平民逃往南面的巴格达和东面的库尔德斯坦；后者的治安由极为忠诚的“库尔德自由战士”(peshmerga)部队维持。
The Iraqi army apparently crumbled in the face of the militant assault, as soldiers dropped their weapons, shed their uniforms for civilian clothes and blended in with the fleeing masses. The militants freed thousands of prisoners and took over military bases, police stations, banks and provincial headquarters, before raising the black flag of the jihadi group Islamic State of Iraq and Syria over public buildings. The bodies of soldiers, police officers and civilians lay scattered in the streets.
在武装分子攻击的面前，伊拉克军队似乎崩溃了；士兵们放下武器，脱下制服，换上平民装束，混入逃离的人群。武装分子释放了数千名囚犯，控制了军事基地、警察局、银行和省政府总部，并在公共建筑物上升起了圣战组织“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度”（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的黑色旗帜。街道上散落着士兵、警察和平民的尸体。
“They took control of everything, and they are everywhere,” said one soldier who fled the city, and gave only his first name, Haidar.
“他们控制了一切，到处都是他们的人，”一个逃离城市的士兵说，他只透露自己的名字是海达尔(Haidar)。
The swift capture of large areas of the city by militants aligned with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria represented a climactic moment on a long trajectory of Iraq’s unraveling since the withdrawal of American forces at the end of 2011.
自美军2011年年底撤离该国之后，伊拉克逐渐走向分崩离析的道路，支持ISIS的武装分子对摩苏尔的大片区域的迅速占领，则代表着这条长长轨迹中的一个高潮时刻。
The rising insurgency in Iraq seemed likely to add to the foreign policy woes of the Obama administration, which has faced sharp criticism for its swap of five Taliban officers for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl and now must answer questions about the death of five Americans by friendly fire in Afghanistan on Monday night.
伊拉克愈演愈烈的叛乱，有可能让奥巴马政府的外交政策困境雪上加霜。由于用五个塔利班囚犯交换了鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)，他们已经面临着尖锐批评，现在又必须回答有关五个美国人本周一晚间在阿富汗被友军误伤致死的问题。
Critics have long warned that America’s withdrawal of troops from Iraq, without leaving even a token force, invited an insurgent revival. The apparent role of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Tuesday’s attack helps vindicate those, among them the former ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, who have called for arming more moderate groups in the Syrian conflict.
批评人士早就警告说，美国从伊拉克将部队撤离，甚至连象征性的驻军都不留下，几乎就是在开门揖盗。ISIS在本周二的攻击中所扮演的角色似乎支持了这些说法。这些批评人士中包括美国驻叙利亚前大使罗伯特·福特(Robert Ford)，他还呼吁奥巴马政府在应对叙利亚冲突时，为更多的温和派团体提供武装。
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki ordered a state of emergency for the entire country and called on friendly governments for help, without mentioning the United States specifically.
伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)下令全国进入紧急状态，并呼吁友好国家的政府提供帮助，不过没有特别提及美国。
In Washington, the State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said in a statement that the United States was “deeply concerned about the events that have transpired in Mosul,” and that the Obama administration supported a “strong, coordinated response to push back this aggression.” The statement said the administration would provide “all appropriate assistance to the government of Iraq” and called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria “not only a threat to the stability of Iraq, but a threat to the entire region.”
在华盛顿，国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在一份声明中说，美国“严重关注在摩苏尔发生的事件”，奥巴马政府支持“强有力的、合作开展的应对措施，以抵抗这种侵略”。声明还表示，美国政府将“为伊拉克政府提供一切适当的援助”，以及ISIS“不仅威胁到伊拉克的稳定，也威胁到了整个地区”。
Mosul was the last major urban area to be pacified by American troops and, when they left, the United States contended that Iraq was on the path to peace and democracy.
摩苏尔当年是美军最后平定的重要城区，在撤军时，美国曾表示，伊拉克已经走上了通往和平与民主的道路。
Even as insurgents consolidated control of Mosul and surrounding Nineveh Province on Tuesday, they looked to other targets. They cut off a portion of the main highway that links the city with Baghdad, the capital, and secured villages near Kirkuk, a major city that is in dispute between Arabs and Kurds, according to security officials.
甚至就在叛乱分子本周二加强对摩苏尔与其周边的尼尼微省的控制时，他们还在对其他目标虎视眈眈。安全官员表示，他们切断了连接该城市与首都巴格达的一段主要干道，并拿下了基尔库克附近的一些村庄。基尔库克是一座主要城市，目前处在阿拉伯人和库尔德人的争端之中。
For more than six months, the militants have maintained control of Falluja, in Iraq’s Sunni-Arab Anbar province, a city where hundreds of Americans died trying to crush an insurgency. While Falluja carries symbolic importance to the United States, the seizure of Mosul, a city of 1.4 million with a mix of ethnicities, sects and religions, is more ominous for the stability of Iraq.
六个多月来，武装分子一直控制着费卢杰。这座城市位于安巴尔省，是伊拉克逊尼派阿拉伯人的地盘，数以百计的美国人曾在扑灭费卢杰的一次叛乱的战斗中丧生。虽然费卢杰对美国来说具有重大象征意义，但对于伊拉克的稳定来说，摩苏尔被叛军占领更是一个不祥征兆。摩苏尔拥有140万人口，包含多个民族、教派和宗教。
“It’s a shock,” said James Jeffrey, a former United States ambassador to Iraq. “It’s extremely serious. It’s far more serious than Falluja.”
“这令人震惊，”美国驻伊拉克前大使詹姆斯·杰弗里(James Jeffrey)说。“这非常严重，远比费卢杰被占领严重。”
Mosul is a transportation hub for goods coming from Turkey and elsewhere. An important oil pipeline is nearby, carrying nearly 15 percent of the country’s oil flow to a port on the Turkish coast.
摩苏尔是一个运输枢纽，来自土耳其和其他地方的商品在这里进行中转。该城附近有一条重要的石油管道，将该国近15%的石油输送到一个土耳其港口。
The chaos in Mosul also illustrated how the violence in Iraq has increasingly merged with the civil war in Syria, as extremists now operate on both sides of the porous border. On Tuesday, local officials claimed that many of the fighters were jihadists who had come from the lawless frontier that divides Iraq and Syria, a region where they have increasingly operated with impunity even as President Bashar al-Assad has reclaimed ground lost to the insurgents elsewhere in Syria.
摩苏尔的混乱也表明，伊拉克的暴力事件如何与叙利亚内战日益混杂在一起；叙伊边境线漏洞百出，极端分子现在边境两边都开展活动。本周二，当地官员称，很多武装分子都是圣战者，来自没有法制约束的叙伊边境地区，他们在那里越来越肆无忌惮地开展活动，虽然在叙利亚国内的其他地方，总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统已经在从叛乱分子手中收复失地。
Osama al-Nujaifi, the Iraqi Parliament speaker, a Sunni from Mosul, called the fighting a “foreign invasion of Iraq, carried out by terrorist groups from different countries.”
伊拉克议会议长乌萨马·努杰菲(Osama al-Nujaifi)来自摩苏尔，是一名逊尼派教徒，他把此事称为“外敌入侵伊拉克，来自不同国家的恐怖组织发动了这次入侵”。
The rout in Mosul was a humiliating defeat for Iraq’s security forces, led by Prime Minister Maliki and his Shiite-dominated government, and equipped and trained by the United States at a cost of billions of dollars. As the insurgency has gained strength over the last year, Mr. Maliki has been criticized for pursuing security policies that alienated ordinary Sunnis, such as sweeps that rounded up hundreds of men, innocent and guilty alike, and the arrest of the wives of suspected militants.
对于伊拉克安全部队来说，在摩苏尔的溃败是一大耻辱。伊拉克安全部队由马利基总理及其什叶派占多数的政府领导，由美国提供装备和训练，耗资数十亿美元。随着叛军在过去一年里实力增强，马利基推行的一些安全策略受到了批评，这些策略疏远了普通的逊尼派，比如进行扫荡，把数百人统统投入牢狱，不管他们是否有罪，又比如逮捕疑为武装分子的人的妻子等等。
Referring to the security forces in Mosul, Mr. Jeffrey, now a visiting fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said, “they had lost the support of the people because they had a sectarian policy, and I saw it with my own eyes.”
谈到摩苏尔的安全部队时，杰弗里说，“他们已经失去了公众的支持，因为他们的政策是宗派性质的，这是我亲眼所见。”杰弗里目前在华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)任访问研究员。
The army responded to the rout on Tuesday by bombing at least one military base that had been captured by the militants, but there was no immediate sign of a broader offensive to reclaim the city. Early Tuesday morning, militants stormed the offices of the provincial governor and later in the day, dozens of army and police vehicles were burning in the streets, witnesses said.
政府军对本周二的溃败也做出了回应，轰炸了至少一个被武装分子控制的军事基地，但没有直接迹象表明，他们准备开展更大面积的攻势来收复摩苏尔。周二早晨，武装分子闯入了省长办公室，当天晚些时候，数十名军警车辆在街道上遭到焚烧，目击者说。
Residents said militants started moving into the city the night before, taking positions that had been abandoned by the army. Around 1 a.m., one resident, who gave his name as Abu Mustafa, left his home and found militants in sport utility vehicles, some dressed in jeans, others in Afghan-style clothing. Some, he said, spoke Arabic in accents other than Iraqi.
居民说，武装分子在前一天晚上进入摩苏尔，占据了伊拉克军队已经放弃的场所。凌晨1点左右，一位自称叫阿布·穆斯塔法(Abu Mustafa)的居民离开家时，看到乘坐着越野车的武装分子，其中有人穿着牛仔裤，也有人穿着阿富汗风格的服装。他说，有些人讲的阿拉伯语口音跟伊拉克的不一样。