WASHINGTON — The day after a deadly assault in Syria that bore many of the hallmarks of a chemical weapons attack, a sharply divided Obama administration on Thursday began weighing potential military responses to President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.
华盛顿——叙利亚周三发生带有诸多化学武器攻击特征的致死性袭击。一天之后，分歧严重的奥巴马政府开始权衡，是否要对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的部队作出军事回应。
Senior officials from the Pentagon, the State Department and the intelligence agencies met for three and a half hours at the White House on Thursday to deliberate over options, which officials say could range from a cruise missile strike to a more sustained air campaign against Syria.
五角大楼(Pentagon)、国务院(State Department)和情报部门的高级官员周四在白宫磋商了三个半小时，讨论了各种选项。官员们表示，这些选项中小至对叙利亚进行一次巡航导弹攻击，大至展开一场更持久的空袭。
The meeting broke up without any decision, according to senior officials, amid signs of a deepening division between those who advocate sending Mr. Assad a harsh message and those who argue that military action now would be reckless and ill timed.
一些高级官员透露，会议以破裂告终，未能得出结论。这表明，持不同观点的两派人分歧进一步加深。一方主张该狠狠教训一下阿萨德，另一方则认为，目前开展军事行动不仅鲁莽而且时机不佳。
Similar debates played out across the Atlantic. France backed the use of force to counter such an attack, and Turkey and Israel expressed outrage. But diplomats in several countries conceded there was no stomach among the Western allies, including the United States, for long-term involvement in a messy, sectarian civil war.
大西洋另一侧也进行着类似的辩论。法国支持采用武力手段回应本次袭击，土耳其和以色列则表示愤慨。不过，多个国家的外交官承认，包括美国在内的西方盟国无意长期介入叙利亚混乱的教派内战。
While the Obama administration said it would wait for the findings of a United Nations investigation of the attack, American officials spoke in strikingly tougher terms about what might happen if President Obama were to determine that chemical weapons were used.
尽管奥巴马政府声称，将等待联合国针对本次袭击进行的调查结果，但美国官方采取了明显更为强硬的措辞，谈论一旦奥巴马确认动用了化学武器，将产生何种后果。
“If these reports are true, it would be an outrageous and flagrant use of chemical weapons by the regime,” the State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said. “The president, of course, has a range of options that we’ve talked about before that he can certainly consider.”
国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)表示，“如果报道属实，阿萨德政权动用化学武器的行为可谓肆无忌惮、骇人听闻。奥巴马总统当然拥有各种选择，我们之前对此已经进行了讨论，他无疑可以进行考虑。”
The United States first confirmed that the Syrian government had used chemical weapons early this year, and Obama administration officials responded by signaling they would supply the rebels with weapons. But to date, none have arrived.
美国早先确认，叙利亚政府今年初使用了化学武器。奥巴马政府的官员对此的回应是发出信号称，他们将向反对派提供武器。但截至目前，没有任何武器运达。
Among American officials, there was a growing belief that chemical weapons had been used in the latest attack, early Wednesday east of Damascus — potentially the worst of its kind since Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons against the Kurds in Iraq in the 1980s — and little doubt that anyone but Mr. Assad’s forces would have used them.
美国官员越来越相信，最近的这次袭击中动用了化学武器，而且几乎毫无疑问，是由阿萨德的政府军使用的。袭击发生在周三早间，地点是大马士革东部。这有可能是萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)上世纪80年代对伊拉克的库尔德人使用化学武器以来最恶劣的一次类似行径。
But given how difficult it was last time to prove the use of chemical weapons, administration officials offered no timetable for how long it might take this time, raising questions about how promptly the United States could act.
但是，鉴于上次证明化学武器的使用相当艰难，奥巴马政府的官员没有透露此次证明可能花费的时间。这让人不禁问道，美国的反应究竟能有多迅速？
Israel said its intelligence strongly suggested a chemical weapons attack, while the Syrian opposition pointed to evidence, including the use of four rockets and the locations from which they were fired, which members of the opposition said proved that the attack could have been carried out only by the government’s forces.
以色列声称，该国的情报有力地显示，这是一次化学武器攻击。叙利亚反对派也指出了一些证据，包括四枚火箭弹的使用及其发射地点。多名反对派成员称，这表明袭击只可能来自政府军。
An opposition official described an assault that began shortly after 2 a.m., when the rockets, which they said were equipped with chemical weapons, were launched. Two were fired from a bridge on the highway from Damascus to Homs; the others were launched from a Sironex factory in the Qabun neighborhood of the Syrian capital. The Assad government has denied involvement, and Russians have accused the rebels of staging the attack.
一名反对派官员表示，袭击始于凌晨两点刚过的时候。他们还称，当时发射的是搭载化学武器的火箭弹。其中两枚的发射地是大马士革通往霍姆斯的公路上的一座桥；其余的来自大马士革卡本区(Qabun)的一家Sironex工厂。阿萨德政府否认此次袭击与己有关，俄罗斯还指称此次袭击是由反对派蓄意导演的。
The rebels said the government’s presumed goal was to soften up the opposition before a major conventional attack with tanks, armored personnel carriers and attack planes. On Thursday, fighting persisted in the area, raising doubts about the ability of the United Nations to send investigators to collect samples from the wounded and dead.
反对派推测，政府的目的是，在坦克、装甲运兵车和攻击机进行大型常规袭击前，先削弱反对派。周四，该地区仍有战斗进行，令人怀疑联合国能否派遣调查员从死伤者身上采集样本。
Among the options discussed at the White House, officials said, was a cruise missile strike, which would probably involve Tomahawks launched from a ship in the Mediterranean Sea, where the United States has two destroyers deployed.
美国官员们透露，他们在白宫讨论的选择中包括发动巡航导弹攻击，可能会从地中海的军舰上发射“战斧”(Tomahawks)巡航导弹。美国在地中海部署了两艘驱逐舰。
The Pentagon also has combat aircraft — fighters and bombers — deployed in the Middle East and in Europe that could be used in an air campaign against Syria. The warplanes could be sent aloft with munitions to be launched from far outside Syrian territory, which is protected by a respectable air defense system.
五角大楼还在中东和欧洲部署了可以用于对叙利亚发动空袭的作战飞机——战斗机和轰炸机。这些战机可以携带弹药升空，在距离叙利亚领土很远的地方发起攻击。叙利亚拥有牢固的防空系统。
The targets could include missile or artillery batteries that launch chemical munitions or nerve gas, as well as communications and support facilities. Symbols of the Assad government’s power — headquarters and government offices — also could be among the proposed targets, officials said.
攻击目标可能包括，发射化学武器或神经毒气的导弹或火炮发射系统，以及通讯系统和配套设备。官员们表示，阿萨德政府的权力象征——总部大楼及政府办公楼——也可能被列入攻击计划中。
As leaders digested the harrowing images from Syria of victims gasping for breath or trembling, there was a flurry of phone calls among diplomats expressing horror at the calamitous situation in Syria and frustration at the lack of an obvious response.
各国领导人看到叙利亚的受害者呼吸困难、浑身发抖的惨痛画面后，外交官们纷纷在电话交谈中表示，叙利亚的灾难性局面让他们感到震惊，而各方没有做出明显回应，这让他们非常失望。
“They are all bad choices,” said a European diplomat who asked not to be named because of the delicacy of the situation.
一名欧洲外交官表示，“全都是些糟糕的选项。”由于局势微妙，这名外交官要求匿名。
Secretary of State John Kerry spoke to Ahmad al-Jarba, the president of the Syrian opposition. Mr. Kerry expressed his condolences and the Obama administration’s “commitment to looking into what has happened on the ground,” Ms. Psaki said.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与叙利亚反对派领袖艾哈迈德·贾尔巴(Ahmad al-Jarba)进行了通话。帕莎其说，克里表示了哀悼，并称奥巴马政府“承诺调查当地实际发生了什么”。
Mr. Kerry also spoke to Laurent Fabius, the foreign minister of France, who raised the prospect of military action. He called Turkey’s foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu; several Arab foreign ministers; the European Union’s senior foreign policy official, Catherine Ashton; and the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon.
克里还与法国外交部长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)进行了通话，后者谈到了采取军事行动的可能性。他还给土耳其外交部长艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)、几个阿拉伯国家的外交部长、欧盟外交政策高级官员凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)及联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)通了电话。
At home, however, officials said the administration remained divided about how to proceed. “There’s a split between those who feel we need to act now and those who feel that now is a very bad time to act,” said one senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration’s internal deliberations.
然而，在美国国内，官员们表示，奥巴马政府对于如何继续开展行动仍然存在分歧。一名高级官员表示，“有人觉得我们需要现在就行动，有人觉得现在采取行动的时机很糟糕，分歧很深。”由于谈及政府的内部讨论，这名官员要求匿名。
The official did not give details about who pushed for a hawkish response to the attack and who urged caution, but he said that some at the White House meeting raised worries that it would take time to build international support for a military response, and that any strikes against Mr. Assad’s government might worsen a refugee crisis that has already placed great strain on Syria’s neighbors.
该名官员没有详细透露谁主张对袭击做出强硬回应，谁敦促政府保持谨慎。但他表示，一些参加白宫会议的人担心，为军事回应争取国际支持可能会花一些时间，而且对阿萨德政权发动的任何攻击，都可能加剧当前的难民危机，这一危机已经使叙利亚的邻国承受了巨大的压力。
Neither the United States nor European countries yet have a “smoking gun” to prove that Mr. Assad’s troops used chemical weapons in the attack, the official said. But he said intelligence agencies had amassed circumstantial evidence that some kind of chemical had been used — not the least of which was the hundreds of casualties.
这名官员表示，美国和欧洲国家都没有确凿证据证明阿萨德的军队在本次攻击中动用了化学武器。但他说，情报机构已经搜集了一些间接证据，证明使用过某种化学武器，其中就包括攻击造成的数百人伤亡。
Senior military officials, in particular Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have cited the risks and costs of large-scale military intervention, as has been urged by some members of Congress.
美国军方将领，特别是参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E. Dempsey)称，大规模军事干预行动会带来风险和代价。而一些国会议员一直敦促进行这种干预。
Yet the greater political risk now might be to Mr. Obama’s credibility, analysts said, given that he laid down a red line last summer to prevent Mr. Assad from using chemical weapons again.
而分析人士表示，鉴于奥巴马去年夏天设置了一条禁止阿萨德再次使用化学武器的红线，目前更大的政治风险是，奥巴马的可信度会受到质疑。