UNITED NATIONS — Nearly a year before the world woke up to images of Syrians dying in a large-scale chemical weapons attack, Samantha Power was quietly pushing President Obama for a military strike to stop what she calls the “grotesque tactics” of President Bashar al-Assad. For a fleeting moment this month, it seemed she had prevailed.
联合国——叙利亚人民死于大规模化学武器袭击的真相已经大白于天下。然而早在近一年前，萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)就已开始私下里敦促奥巴马总统进行军事打击，以阻止被她称为巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统“丑恶的行径”。而在本月有那么一个短暂的瞬间，看起来她好像成功了。
Now Ms. Power, a former senior aide on the National Security Council and a former war reporter born in Ireland, must negotiate for peace in a new public role as Mr. Obama’s ambassador to the United Nations. The president’s abrupt decision not to use force in Syria has thrust her into the middle of contentious talks to create a United Nations Security Council resolution mandating the elimination of Mr. Assad’s chemical arsenal by the middle of next year.
而现在，这位出生在爱尔兰的前战地记者、前国家安全委员会(the National Security Council)高级助理，作为奥巴马派往联合国的大使，必须以这一新的公众角色进行和平谈判。总统突然决定不对叙使用武力，令她陷入了争吵不断的会谈，以促成联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)通过决议，要求在明年年中之前对阿萨德的化学武器予以销毁。
She will be on the spot on Monday, her diplomatic debut, as Mr. Obama arrives in New York for the United Nations General Assembly. A woman known for her closeness to the president and the soaring prose of her Pulitzer Prize-winning book on genocide, “A Problem From Hell,” Ms. Power is the lead American negotiator in the difficult, gritty business of arguing with the Russians, Syria’s patrons, who have already rejected the notion of using force if Mr. Assad does not comply.
奥巴马周一抵达纽约参加联合国大会之际，将是她在外交舞台上的首演。与奥巴马的亲近关系，以及在关于大屠杀的普利策奖(Pulitzer Prize)获奖著作《地狱的一个问题》(A Problem From Hell)中的精彩文笔，让她广为人知。这次，她将作为美方主要人员，与叙利亚的恩主俄罗斯人进行艰难而英勇的谈判。目前俄罗斯已经表示即便阿萨德不配合也不同意动用武力。
Even her supporters wonder if the untested Ms. Power will be tough enough, a question with big implications. Secretary of State John Kerry will work with her on the resolution, but her role is so central that her performance — in her first weeks on the job — will help determine America’s future course in Syria.
甚至连鲍尔的支持者也不知道，从未经受过类似考验的她能否足够强硬。而这一问题关系重大。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)将与她一道合作，就决议进行谈判，但她的角色极其关键——在上任最初几周里的表现将决定美国未来在叙利亚问题上的走向。
“Most diplomats in a career of 40 years would never get this kind of opportunity to make such a difference at such a critical moment,” said Edward C. Luck, the dean of the School of Peace Studies at the University of San Diego and a former senior United Nations adviser on peacekeeping issues. “The stakes could not be higher.”
“即使有着40年职业经历的外交官也极少能碰上这样的机会，能够在一个如此关键的时刻，成为如此重要的人物，”圣地亚哥大学和平研究学院(School of Peace Studies at the University of San Diego)院长，联合国前任维和事务高级顾问爱德华·C·拉克(Edward C. Luck)说，“没有比这更休戚相关的问题了。”
At the United Nations headquarters last week, where security was tight in preparation for Monday’s meeting of world leaders, Ms. Power, who turned 43 on Saturday, looked harried as she swept through the corridors with her entourage. In brief comments to reporters, she deflected questions about how she would handle Russia’s resistance to authorizing the use of force if Mr. Assad refused to comply.
联合国总部上周为筹备周一的首脑会议而戒备森严。周六刚过43岁生日的鲍尔和随从穿行在走廊上时，看起来忧心忡忡。在接受记者的简短采访时，有人问如果阿萨德不配合，但俄罗斯仍然反对授权使用武力时，将如何应对，她没有给出正面回答。
“We are determined to have an enforceable and binding resolution,” Ms. Power said, in the kind of bland, bureaucratic language she might have shunned as a writer for The New Yorker, which she once was. Beyond that, “I think I’m not going to comment.” She declined to be interviewed for this article.
“我们决心制定一个可执行且有约束力的决议，”鲍尔以一种乏味的官僚辞令说道。这样的语言也许是她在为《纽约客》(The New Yorker)撰稿时会极力避免的。除此之外，“我想我无可奉告。”她谢绝了本文的采访要求。
Over the past two and a half years, as Syria descended into civil war and bloodshed, Ms. Power — who in her role in the White House in 2011 helped orchestrate the American intervention in Libya — was unable to persuade the president to do the same in Syria.
在过去的两年半时间里，叙利亚深陷内战与流血冲突中，2011年鲍尔在白宫工作时曾出力促成美国对利比亚进行干预，如今却无法说服总统对叙利亚采取同样的手段。
One person close to Ms. Power said she had been advocating military action at least since then, and as far back as December of last year. The Aug. 21 sarin gas attack, which American intelligence agencies say killed more than 1,400 Syrians, nearly a third of them children, forced the issue onto Mr. Obama’s agenda.
一位熟悉鲍尔的人表示，至少从2011年开始，还有早在去年12月，她就开始主张采取军事行动了。8月21日的沙林毒气袭击，据美国情报部门称造成了1400多名叙利亚人死亡，近三分之一为儿童。该问题终于被推上了奥巴马的议事日程。
“I don’t think she ever expected that every issue would be decided her way,” the person said, insisting on anonymity to share private conversations. “But she did want to be working for a president who was fully engaged, wrestling with this problem of how to respond to mass atrocities.”
“我想她不会指望每个问题都能按照她的想法做出决定，”此人说。因涉及私人谈话内容，他坚持在本文中匿名。“但她确实希望为一位能够全面参与的总统做事，一位敢于就大规模暴行之后的应对问题展开缠斗的总统。”
Ms. Power was in Ireland at a family reunion when the attack occurred. She called for an emergency session of the United Nations Security Council, knowing that she would not be back in time to attend, and missed it, drawing sharp criticism from conservative commentators. She cut her trip short and returned two days later.
当化学武器袭击发生时，鲍尔正在爱尔兰参加家族聚会。尽管深知自己无法及时赶回，她仍向联合国安理会提出召开紧急会议，并因错过出席该会议而饱受保守派评论家们的尖锐批评。她缩短了假期，在两天后赶了回去。
She also took to Twitter, keeping up her pointed assault on the Assad government. “Reports devastating: 100s dead in streets, including kids killed by chem weapons,” one post read. “U.N. must get there fast & if true, perps must face justice.”
她同时通过Twitter对阿萨德政府进行尖锐批评。“可怕的报道：化学武器造成几百人曝尸街头，还有孩子，”其中一条写道，“联合国必须快速行动。如果一切属实，凶手必须面对法律制裁。”
In Washington, Ms. Power was confirmed in her new job by the Senate on Aug. 1 in an overwhelmingly bipartisan 87-to-10 vote. Yet she is polarizing. Conservatives like Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican, are suspicious of remarks she made in 2002 about Israel, since disavowed, that solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict might require “alienating a domestic constituency of tremendous political and financial import.” The antiwar left feels betrayed by her hawkishness.
鲍尔在华盛顿8月1日进行的参议院两党投票中，以87对10的压倒性优势获得了新职位的确认。但人们对她褒贬不一。像佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)这样的保守派人士，对她在2002年就以色列问题发表的谈话仍心存怀疑。她说要解决巴以冲突也许需要“疏远一个拥有巨大政治和金融重要性的国内选区。”她的鹰派风格让反战的左翼人士感觉受到背叛。她后来否认发表过此番谈话。
When Russia blocked a Security Council resolution on Syria this month, Ms. Power said flatly that “Russia continues to hold the council hostage.”
当俄罗斯本月对安理会就叙利亚的决议投了反对票时，鲍尔直截了当地表示“俄罗斯继续把安理会扣为人质。”
The next day, Sept. 6, after Mr. Obama had decided to seek authorization in Congress for a military strike, she argued in a speech at the Center for American Progress in Washington that failure to act would “give a green light to outrages that will threaten our security and haunt our conscience.”
9月6日，在奥巴马决定就军事打击向国会寻求授权的第二天，她在位于华盛顿的美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)发表演讲，她指出若不采取行动，就会“对威胁我们安全、折磨我们良知的暴行大开绿灯。”
That sentiment flows from bearing witness to human rights atrocities. On assignment for The New Yorker in 2004, Ms. Power was among the first to chronicle the bloody ethnic cleansing in Sudan, where she visited refugee camps and slipped into rebel-held areas in Darfur to see villages that had burned to the ground. As a young freelancer in Bosnia, she reported on the systematic rape of Muslim women.
目睹过大量人权暴行的人自然会流露这样的情绪。2004年为《纽约客》工作期间，鲍尔是首先记录苏丹种族清洗暴行的人之一。她拜访了难民营，偷偷溜进叛乱分子控制的达尔富尔地区，去探访已经被大火夷为平地的村庄。在波斯尼亚，作为一名年轻的自由职业者，她报道了针对穆斯林妇女进行的有计划的强暴活动。
“Samantha is somebody who believes deeply that American power flows from our values as much as our military might, and that in the world, when we act in accordance with our values, we strengthen our ability to lead,” said Anne-Marie Slaughter, a former State Department official and a Princeton professor who knows Ms. Power well.
“萨曼莎是这样的人，她坚信美国的实力同时来自于我们的价值观和我们的军事实力，而且坚信，在这个世界上，当我们根据价值观行动时，就会加强我们的领导力，”与鲍尔相熟的前国务院官员、普林斯顿大学教授安妮-玛丽·斯劳特(Anne-Marie Slaughter)说道。
But the reporter who once risked arrest in the Balkans and harangued Clinton officials over late-night drinks now has a driver, a security detail and a household staff. She lives in the ambassador’s residence at the top of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel with her husband, Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law professor and former regulatory chief in the Obama administration, and their children, Declan, 4, and Rian, 1.
但那个曾经冒着被逮捕的危险在巴尔干地区进行报道的记者，那个曾在深夜小酌时高谈阔论的克林顿政府官员，现在拥有了专职司机、警卫和家政人员。她和丈夫、曾任奥巴马政府监管部门负责人的哈佛大学法学教授凯斯·桑斯坦(Cass Sunstein)、他们的孩子——4岁的德克兰(Declan)和1岁的莱恩(Rian)——一起住在位于华尔道夫酒店顶层的大使官邸。
Ms. Power, who aides say has been in daily negotiations on Syria, has described the United Nations process she is facing as “a rare moment of promise at the Security Council after two and a half years of deadlock and paralysis.” If she can help break that deadlock with a vote that results in Syria giving up its chemical weapons, foreign policy say analysts say it could help lay the groundwork for broader talks on ending Syria’s bloody civil war.
据鲍尔的助手们说，她每天都在就叙利亚问题进行会谈，并把她所面对的联合国进程描述为“在历时两年半的僵局和瘫痪之后，安理会正进入一个罕见的充满希望的时刻。”外交决策分析家们认为，如果她能通过一次投票来打破僵局，促成叙利亚放弃其化学武器，就能为结束叙利亚的血腥内战进行更为广泛的谈判打下基础。
But if she winds up with a toothless resolution, it could be an embarrassment, setting the tone for the rest of her ambassadorship. Of all people, she does not want to be the ambassador who becomes bogged down in a drawn-out diplomatic negotiation while thousands of Syrians remain at risk.
但如果仅以一个无关痛痒的决议草草收场，这会让她非常难堪，也会导致她的大使任期处境尴尬。无论怎样，她绝不会想要成为那个在千万叙利亚人性命攸关的时刻，陷入冗长外交谈判动弹不得的大使。
“She is facing the same dilemma that many diplomats face,” said Vali Nasr, dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. “Except for most of them, their convictions and ideals are not in the public domain in the form of a Pulitzer-Prize winning book.”
“她面对的困境是许多外交官都会遇到的，”约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)的院长瓦利·纳斯尔(Vali Nasr)说，“不过多数外交官的信念和理想不会以一本普利策奖获奖图书的形式直接呈现在公众视线里。”