THE agreement between the United States and Russia to rid Syria of chemical weapons should please — but also terrify — anyone hoping to return the United Nations to relevance. After the ugly, ignominious train crash of the United Nations’ inspections process in Iraq a decade ago, the question is whether the United Nations can deliver both international legitimacy and a genuine prospect for peace.
美国和俄罗斯就迫使叙利亚交出化学武器达成的协议，应该会让所有希望联合国重新发挥作用的人高兴，但同时也会让他们感到恐惧。10年前因搞砸在伊拉克的核查工作而颜面扫地之后，联合国面临的问题是，它能否既提供国际合法性，又能让全球真正实现和平。
Syria’s suffering did not begin with the Assad regime’s criminal use of chemical weapons — and it won’t end with their removal. The timeline that Secretary of State John Kerry and his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, agreed to last week is impossible to meet. Russia’s incentive to pressure Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, to give up chemical weapons, his strategic deterrent, was more about preventing unilateral American military action than about easing Mr. Assad from power. As this 30-month war drags on, the fighters are less likely than ever to have an interest in putting down their arms to allow for a peaceful political transition of power. If the United Nations endorses the American-Russian deal, it will no doubt be blamed if and when the deal fails.
叙利亚的苦难并非始于阿萨德政权使用化学武器的罪行，也不会因为交出这些武器而结束。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)上周达成的时间表根本不可能实现。俄罗斯向叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)施压，要求其交出战略威慑，即化学武器，在更大程度上是为了阻止美国单方面采取军事行动，而不是要推动阿萨德放弃掌权。随着这场持续了30个月的内战继续进行，交战各方愿意放下武器，为和平政治交接创造条件的可能性比以往任何时候都小。如果联合国认可美俄达成的协议，联合国必然会在协议夭折时受到指责。
So should supporters of the United Nations system despair? Is this Iraq all over again?
那么，联合国制度的支持者应该绝望吗？这是伊拉克乱局的再次上演吗？
No. Unlike in 2003, the United States is not using diplomacy — or the United Nations — to justify military action, but rather to avoid it. Russia, meanwhile, is trying to reclaim a seat at the global decision-making table — beyond the use of its veto power at the Security Council — and to end Washington’s tendency to enforce regime change by fiat. On both fronts, that is a positive (if modest) development for the international order.
不是。与2003年不同，美国现在利用外交手段，或者说利用联合国的目的，不是为了证明采取军事行动有理，而是要避免采取军事行动。与此同时，俄罗斯正试图在全球事务的决策中重新占据一席之地——而不只是在安理会(Security Council)上行使否决权——并且结束华盛顿强行推动政权更迭的倾向。这两方面的努力对国际秩序而言都是积极（即使幅度不大）的动态。
The bad news is that the Assad regime, by escaping immediate punishment for its use of chemical weapons, lives on to fight another day. Its military resilience has already confounded many observers’ predictions, and the fracturing of the opposition, and its increasing infiltration by militant Islamists, give Mr. Assad significant negotiating power. The civil war will continue to rage on at an immense humanitarian cost, with the regime (correctly) convinced that it is fighting an existential struggle against dangerous and disorganized opponents.
坏消息是，没有因使用化学武器而立即受到惩罚的阿萨德政权还能继续顽抗。它在军事上的韧性已经超出许多观察人士的预测，而反对派的分裂，以及日益被伊斯兰主义武装分子渗透这一点，给阿萨德提供了重要的谈判砝码。这场内战会继续打下去，造成巨大的人道主义代价，阿萨德政权（正确地）相信，自己正在同危险的、无组织的反对派进行你死我活的斗争。
The good news is that the West, having abandoned its expectations of Mr. Assad’s imminent fall, may now return to last year’s Geneva Communiqué as the basis for a political transition to a broad-based, representative government. With a military stalemate prevailing, a peace process — as carefully structured and forcefully negotiated as the one designed by Richard C. Holbrooke to end the war in Bosnia in 1995 — is sorely needed. Led by the United States, Russia and the United Nations, the negotiations must also include both Saudi Arabia and Iran. Such a process could keep Syria from splintering and put it in the hands of a broadly acceptable government.
好消息是，已经不再期待阿萨德即刻垮台的西方，现在可能会重拾去年达成的《日内瓦公报》(Geneva Communiqué)，将其作为政治过渡的基础，最终建立一个具有广泛代表性的政府。在军事僵局持续的情况下，对和平进程的需求迫在眉睫，就像理查德·C·霍尔布鲁克(Richard C. Holbrooke)在1995年为终结波黑的战争而设计的那种结构上精心构思、并通过强有力谈判达成的那种和平进程。由美国、俄罗斯和联合国牵头的谈判，还必须纳入沙特阿拉伯和伊朗。这样的进程将避免让叙利亚陷入分裂，并将该国交给一个各界广泛接受的政府。
Not only must a real and lasting price be exacted for the regime’s use of chemical weapons, but the disarmament agreement must also be the catalyst for a political transition toward a legitimate government in Damascus before Syria as a state is destroyed.
在叙利亚作为一个国家被毁灭之前，必须要让现政权为使用化学武器而付出切实、持久的代价，而且必须把消除化学武器的协议当成一剂催化剂，推动叙利亚政治过渡，最终建立一个合法政府。
The prospects are daunting, and the dangers are plenty. Russia may decide to run out the clock on what will be a tortured inspections and political process, and argue (with some justification) that the opposition is increasingly unmanageable and unacceptable as a negotiating partner. But if Mr. Assad feels cornered and uses chemical weapons again, the United States may feel compelled to respond with military force, even without United Nations approval.
前景令人气馁，而且危险重重。俄罗斯也许决定以肯定会不顺利的核查和政治进程为借口尽可能拖延，同时（有几分理由地）辩称，反对派作为谈判方，正变得越来越不可控、越来越不可接受。不过，如果阿萨德在战局逼迫之下再次使用化学武器，那么即使没有联合国的批准，美国也可能觉得有必要做出武力回应。
For the West, one lasting lesson of the Syria crisis should be that the politics of national security today require a legitimacy that must be earned, in practice as well as principle. It is no longer enough to justify military intervention by pointing to a crime against humanity. In the wake of misbegotten wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, American and European leaders must now also demonstrate that an intervention has a plausible chance of improving the lives of those in peril, as well as advancing the security of those going to war in the name of peace.
对西方来说，叙利亚危机的的长期教训应该是，在今天，事关国家安全的政治活动，需要争取实际上和原则上的合法性。仅仅指出一方犯下反人类罪，已不再足以构成军事干预的理由。在阿富汗和伊拉克发生拙劣的战争后，美国和欧洲领导人现在还必须表明，军事干预有可信的机会改善那些身处险境的平民的生活，并且有助于增进那些以和平为名参战的国家的安全。
For Russia, China and other nations that reflexively oppose Western-led interventions, the test of legitimacy is no less acute. For if they persist in blocking United Nations action where action is justified, they will hasten the day of the organization’s irrelevance. Just as few states or peoples want the Security Council to be a rubber stamp for unilateralist American policy, so, too, will it lose credibility if it serves as a shield behind which unspeakable outrages can take place in the name of safeguarding sovereignty.
对惯于反对西方主导的干预行动的俄罗斯、中国和其他国家而言，合法性考验也同样紧迫。这是因为，如果联合国的行动具备正当的理由，而他们依然坚持阻挠，他们会加速让联合国变得无足轻重。没有几个国家或几国的民众希望安理会成为奉行美国单边主义政策的橡皮图章，同样地，如果安理会成为一个盾牌，躲在它的背后可以进行以捍卫主权为名的可怕暴行，那么安理会就会丧失可信度。