NEW HAVEN — THE world is in a bind. Syria has violated basic norms of international law and humanity by using chemical weapons on its own people. The United Nations, which is supposed to secure international peace, is paralyzed by the intransigence of Russia and China, which hold vetoes on the Security Council.
纽黑文——世界手足无措。叙利亚用化学武器对付自己的国民，这种反人类行径违反了国际法的基本准则。本应维护国际安全的联合国，却因在安理会拥有否决权的俄罗斯和中国拒不妥协，而陷入瘫痪。
It is no surprise that both liberal interventionists and neoconservative realists are advocating American military intervention, even if it is illegal. As President Obama said on Saturday, “If we won’t enforce accountability in the face of this heinous act, what does it say about our resolve to stand up to others who flout fundamental international rules?” 
我们毫不惊奇，自由派干预论者和新保守派现实主义者均支持美国进行军事干预，尽管不合法。正如奥巴马总统周六所言，“面对如此令人发指的行为，如果我们不去保证有人为此担负责任，那还说什么坚决与藐视基本国际准则的人进行斗争？”
But this question ignores the obvious: If the United States begins an attack without Security Council authorization, it will flout the most fundamental international rule of all — the prohibition on the use of military force, for anything but self-defense, in the absence of Security Council approval. This rule may be even more important to the world’s security — and America’s — than the ban on the use of chemical weapons.
但如此发问忽视了一个明显问题：如果美国不经安理会授权就开始打击，那是藐视了最基本的国际规则——禁止在非自卫或不经安理会批准的情况下使用武力。和禁止使用化学武器相比，以上这条准则对于世界安全——包括美国的安全——要更为重要。
Mr. Obama cannot justify an attack on Syria based on any direct threat to the United States. Nor does there appear to be a direct threat to Turkey, a member of NATO, which might justify an assault based on collective self-defense. The sad fact is that Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, is visiting horrors, for now, mainly on his own citizens, though the conflict has caused two million refugees to flee to other countries.
奥巴马无法以“对美国产生直接威胁”为由出兵叙利亚。对土耳其而言，直接威胁似乎也并不存在。因为土耳其是北约(NATO)成员国，美国本可以集体自卫为由进行袭击。而令人沮丧的就是，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)大肆作恶的对象目前主要是自己的国民，战乱已导致200万难民逃至他国。
Some argue that international law provides for a “responsibility to protect” that allows states to intervene during humanitarian disasters, without Security Council authorization. They point to NATO’s 1999 intervention in Kosovo. But in 2009 the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, rejected this view, finding that “the responsibility to protect does not alter, indeed it reinforces, the legal obligations of Member States to refrain from the use of force except in conformity with the Charter,” a position he affirmed on Tuesday. (The Independent International Commission on Kosovo found that the intervention was “illegal but legitimate.”)
有些人认为国际法支持“保护责任”，允许国家在人道主义灾难时进行干预，而无需安理会授权。他们提到1999年北约对科索沃的干预。但联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)2009年就驳斥了这一观点，认为“保护责任并不改变，实际上加强了，成员国在使用武力方面进行克制的法律义务，除非情况符合《宪章》(the Charter)规定”。周二他又重申了这个观点。（科索沃独立国际委员会曾认为干预“不合法但合理”。）
Others say it is legalistic, even naïve, to rely on the United Nations Charter, which has been breached countless times. What is one more, especially when the alternative is the slaughter of innocents? But all of these breaches add up — and each one makes it harder to hold others to the rules. If we follow Kosovo and Iraq with Syria, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to stop others from a similar use of force down the line.
又有人说《联合国宪章》(the United Nations Charter)已被无数次违反，再按章行事是墨守成规，甚至是幼稚的。尤其面对滥杀无辜的局面，再违反一次又何妨？但所有这些突破会累积起来——每一次突破之后，都更难要求其他国家遵守规则。如果我们以对待科索沃和伊拉克的方式对待叙利亚，未来要阻止其他国家以类似理由使用武力，虽不是不可能，但会非常困难。
Consider the world that preceded the United Nations. The basic rule of that system, one that lasted for centuries, was that states had just cause to go to war when legal rights had been violated. Spain tried to justify its conquest of the Americas by saying it was protecting indigenous civilians from atrocities committed by other indigenous peoples. The War of the Austrian Succession was fought over whether a woman had a right to inherit the throne. The United States largely justified the Mexican-American War, including the conquest of California and much of what is now the Southwest, by pointing to Mexico’s failure to pay old tort claims and outstanding debts.
想想在联合国建立前的那个世界。国际体系的基本准则，也是贯穿几个世纪以来的准则，就是国家在合法权益遭到侵犯时，发动战争是正当的。西班牙声称，要保护原住民免遭其他原住民的迫害，并以此为由征服了美洲人民。奥地利王位继承战争(the War of the Austrian Succession)则是为了决定女性是否有王位继承权而战。美国基本把美国—墨西哥战争（包括对加利福尼亚和现今美国大部分西南疆域的占领）归为墨西哥没有偿还旧日侵权索赔和大量债务。
The problem with the old system was not that no one could enforce the law, but that too many who wished to do so could. The result was almost constant war.
老系统的问题，不在于没有一方能执法，而在于太多方面，只要愿意都能执行。结果就是几乎战争连绵。
In the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928 and in the United Nations Charter of 1945, the world rejected this system. States were forbidden to enforce the law on their own and had to work through a system of collective security.
在1928年签署的《凯洛格—白里安公约》（the Kellogg-Briand Pact，又称《巴黎非战公约》——译注）和1945年的《联合国宪章》中，世界各国摒弃了这个体系，禁止国家自行执法，各国必须通过集体安全系统来实现目标。
For all its obvious failings, the United Nations system has made for a more peaceful world than the one that preceded it. No leader may claim the right to collect debts or gain thrones by going to war. States may fracture into smaller pieces, but they don’t get conquered. Gunboat diplomacy is also out of the question.
尽管存在诸多不足，和之前相比，联合国体系造就了一个更为和平的世界。没有领导人能以讨债或赢得王位为由而发动战争。国家可能分裂为更小的单元，但不会遭到征伐。炮舰外交也不再被允许。
The desire to respond to the atrocities in Syria with force is natural. The slaughter of civilians is impossible to watch without feeling morally impelled to act. The dysfunctional Security Council’s refusal to act leaves us feeling helpless in the face of evil.
我们很自然地想以武力回应叙利亚的暴行。没人能眼睁睁看着平民遭到屠杀而无动于衷。但无法正常运行的安理会拒绝行动，这让我们面对邪恶势力时，感觉无能为力。
But the choice between military force or nothing is a false one. Most of international law relies not on force for its enforcement, but on the collective power of nations to deprive states of the benefits of membership in a system of states. Mr. Obama can cut off any remaining government contracts with foreign companies that do business with Mr. Assad’s regime. He can work with Congress to do much more for Syrian rebels and refugees — including providing antidotes to nerve agents, which are in short supply. He can use his rhetorical power to shame and pressure Russia and China.
但我们的选择并非只有军事力量或袖手旁观。国际法的大部分内容并非依靠武力来执行，而是通过各国联手，剥夺某些国家作为国际体系成员的利益来实现。奥巴马可以终止与阿萨德政权做交易的外国公司与美国政府的合约。他可以与国会一道解决叙利亚反对派和难民的问题——包括提供目前紧缺的神经毒剂解药。他可以利用自己的言论力量向俄罗斯和中国施压，让其感到惭愧。
For all their wisdom, the United Nations’ founders showed incredible lack of foresight in freezing in place a system in which five nations hold permanent veto power in the Security Council. Unfortunately, that’s unlikely to change, despite almost uniform consensus that the configuration makes little sense. The question is whether we can manage to live with these shortcomings. If not, we have to think very hard about what the alternative might be — and recognize that it could be far, far worse.
联合国的奠基人睿智卓然，但在确立联合国体系时，让5个国家在安理会拥有永久否决权，是严重缺乏先见之明。不幸的是，尽管普遍认为这样的安排并不合理，但改变又不太可能。问题在于我们能否适应不足，继往开来。否则，我们必须认真考虑另一个选项是什么——同时认识到这可能会更为糟糕。
The question Congress and Mr. Obama must ask now is whether employing force to punish Mr. Assad’s use of chemical weapons is worth endangering the fragile international order that is World War II’s most significant legacy.
奥巴马和国会现在必须思考，是否值得以武力惩罚使用了化学武器的阿萨德，进而危害这个脆弱的国际秩序——而它是第二次世界大战所留下的最有意义的遗产。