The Syrian rebels posed casually, standing over their prisoners with firearms pointed down at the shirtless and terrified men.
叙利亚反对派武装懒散地站在他们的俘虏身后，手中的枪指着这些惊恐的赤膊男人。
The prisoners, seven in all, were captured Syrian soldiers. Five were trussed, their backs marked with red welts. They kept their faces pressed to the dirt as the rebels’ commander recited a bitter revolutionary verse.
这七名俘虏是叙利亚政府军士兵。其中五个人被绑着，背上显露出红色的伤痕。他们的脸紧贴着泥土，反对派指挥官诵读了一段充满仇恨的革命诗歌。
“For fifty years, they are companions to corruption,” he said. “We swear to the Lord of the Throne, and it is an oath: We will take revenge.”
“五十年来，他们与腐败为伍，”他说。“我们对着宝座上的真主许下誓言：我们将会复仇。”
The moment the poem ended, the commander, known as “the Uncle,” fired a bullet into the back of the first prisoner’s head. His gunmen followed suit, promptly killing all the men at their feet.
朗诵结束的那一刻，这名被称为“大叔”的指挥官朝着第一名俘虏的脑后开了一枪。他手下的枪手随即效仿，迅速打死了脚下的所有囚犯。
This scene, documented in a video smuggled out of Syria a few days ago by a former rebel who grew disgusted by the killings, offers a dark insight into how many rebels have adopted some of the same brutal and ruthless tactics as the regime they are trying to overthrow.
这一幕被记录在一段视频中，几天前由一名对杀戮心生厌恶的前反对派成员从叙利亚秘密传出。它让人们看到了黑暗的一幕，显示出许多反对派采用的策略，与他们正试图推翻的政权采用的手法一样残酷无情。
As the United States debates whether to support the Obama administration’s proposal that Syrian forces should be attacked for using chemical weapons against civilians, this video, shot in April, joins a growing body of evidence of an increasingly criminal environment populated by gangs of highwaymen, kidnappers and killers.
此时此刻，美国正在讨论是否应当支持奥巴马政府的提议，武力打击对平民使用化学武器的叙利亚政府军。这段视频拍摄于今年4月，在不断增长的证据中占据了一席之地。这些证据表明，叙利亚的犯罪问题日趋严重，充斥着抢劫、绑架和杀人团伙。
The video also offers a reminder of the foreign policy puzzle the United States faces in finding rebel allies as some members of Congress, including Senator John McCain, press for more robust military support for the opposition.
包括参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)在内的一些议员敦促美国为叙利亚反对派提供更强有力的军事援助。这段视频还提醒人们，美国在分辨反对派盟友时面临外交难题。
In the more than two years this civil war has carried on, a large part of the Syrian opposition has formed a loose command structure that has found support from several Arab nations, and, to a more limited degree, the West. Other elements of the opposition have assumed an extremist cast, and openly allied with Al Qaeda.
在这场进行了两年多的内战中，很大一部分叙利亚反对派已经组成一个松散的组织体系。这一系统得到了数个阿拉伯国家的支持，并在一定程度上获得了西方的支持。反对派的另外一些组成部分已呈现出极端分子特征，并公开与基地组织(Al Qaeda)结盟。
Across much of Syria, where rebels with Western support live and fight, areas outside of government influence have evolved into a complex guerrilla and criminal landscape. That has raised the prospect that American military action could inadvertently strengthen Islamic extremists and criminals.
在叙利亚的大部分地区，都有西方国家支持的反对派武装生存并战斗，但政府触角之外的地方已演化出游击队和罪犯横行的复杂局面。这增加了一种可能性，即美国的军事行动或许会无意间加强伊斯兰极端分子和罪犯的力量。
Abdul Samad Issa, 37, the rebel commander leading his fighters through the executions of the captured soldiers, illustrates that very risk.
视频中的反对派指挥官阿卜杜勒·萨马德·伊萨(Abdul Samad Issa)就是这种风险的明证。现年37岁的伊萨带领手下的武装人员处决了被俘士兵。
Known in northern Syria as “the Uncle” because two of his deputies are his nephews, Mr. Issa leads a relatively unknown group of fewer than 300 fighters, one of his former aides said. The former aide, who smuggled the video out of Syria, is not being identified for security reasons.
伊萨的一名前助手说，他在叙利亚北部被称为“大叔”，是因为他的两名副官是他的侄子，他领导的一个名气不大的组织拥有不到300名战士。这名前助手秘密传出了那段视频，出于安全的考虑没有写出他的身份。
A trader and livestock herder before the war, Mr. Issa formed a fighting group early in the uprising by using his own money to buy weapons and underwrite the fighters’ expenses.
伊萨在战争前是一名商人和牧民，他在武装反抗的早期组成了一个战斗组织，用自己的钱购买武器并为战士承担费用。
His motivation, his former aide said, was just as the poem he recited said: revenge.
这名前助手说，他的动机就像他背诵的这首诗中所说的一样：复仇。
In Washington on Wednesday, Secretary of State John Kerry addressed the issue of radicalized rebels in an exchange with Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican. Mr. Kerry insisted that, “There is a real moderate opposition that exists.”
在周三的华盛顿，在与德克萨斯州共和党众议员迈克尔·麦考尔(Michael McCaul)交换意见时，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)谈到了反对派武装激进分子的问题。克里坚称，“温和的反对派确实是存在的。”
Mr. Kerry said that there were 70,000 to 100,000 “oppositionists.” Of these, he said, some 15 percent to 20 percent were “bad guys” or extremists.
克里说，“反对派战士”总共有7万到10万人。他说，在这些人中，有15%到20%是“坏人”或极端分子。
Mr. McCaul responded by saying he had been told in briefings that half of the opposition fighters were extremists.
麦考尔对此回应说，他在简报中得知有一半反对派战士是极端分子。
Much of the concern among American officials has focused on two groups that acknowledge ties to Al Qaeda. These groups — the Nusra Front and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria — have attracted foreign jihadis, used terrorist tactics and vowed to create a society in Syria ruled by their severe interpretation of Islamic law.
美国官员的大部分担忧都集中在两个承认与基地组织有联系的组织上。这两个组织是努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)和伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度(Islamic State of Iraq and Syria)，它们已经吸引到国外的圣战分子，采取恐怖主义战术，并誓言要在叙利亚建立一个由它们解释的严格伊斯兰法律统治的社会。
They have established a firm presence in parts of Aleppo and Idlib Provinces and in the northern provincial capital of Raqqa and in Deir al-Zour, to the east on the Iraqi border.
它们牢固地控制了阿勒颇和伊德利卜省的部分地区，以及北部的省会城市拉卡，还有毗邻伊拉克的东部城市戴尔泽尔。
While the jihadis claim to be superior fighters, and have collaborated with secular rebels, some analysts and diplomats also note that they can appear less focused on toppling President Bashar al-Assad. Instead, they said, they focus more on establishing a zone of influence spanning Iraq’s Anbar Province and the desert eastern areas of Syria, and eventually establishing an Islamic territory under their administration.
尽管圣战分子声称自己是优越的战士，并且与世俗武装分子进行合作时，但一些分析人士和外交官也指出，他们可能会显得不那么专注于推翻巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)。这些人还说，他们会关注于在某一个地区建立影响力，从伊拉克的安巴尔省一直到叙利亚的东部沙漠地区，最终在他们的统治下建立一个伊斯兰国家。
Other areas are under more secular control, including the suburbs of Damascus. In East Ghouta, for example, the suburbs east of the capital where the chemical attack took place, jihadists are not dominant, according to people who live and work there.
其他地区则处在更为世俗化的武装分子控制之下，包括大马士革市郊。例如在化学武器袭击发生地、首都东部的东古塔地区，据在那里生活工作的民众称，圣战分子在那里没有优势。
And while the United States has said it seeks policies that would strengthen secular rebels and isolate extremists, the dynamic on the ground, as seen in the execution video from Idlib and in a spate of other documented crimes, is more complicated than a contest between secular and religious groups.
尽管美国声称将力图采取巩固世俗反对派并孤立极端分子的政策，但当地的形势并非世俗派和宗教团体的简单对立，这种复杂性从伊德利卜的处决视频等被大量记录下来的罪行中可以看到。
Mr. Issa’s father was opposed to President Hafez al-Assad, the father of Syria’s current president. He disappeared in 1982, according to Mr. Issa’s accounts.
伊萨的父亲反对叙利亚前总统哈菲兹·阿萨德(Hafez al-Assad)，即现任总统的父亲。根据伊萨的说法，他父亲于1982年失踪。
Mr. Issa, the aide said, believes his father was killed during a 27-day long government crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood that year, known as the Hama Massacre. By the time he was a young man, Mr. Issa was vocally antigovernment and was arrested and imprisoned twice for a total of nine months, the aide said.
伊萨的助手表示，伊萨认为父亲死于“哈马大屠杀”，也就是叙利亚政府1982年对穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)展开为期27天的镇压行动。该助手称当时伊萨还是个小伙子，他公开反对政府，并两次被捕，共入狱九个月。
When the uprising against Bashar al-Assad started two and a half years ago, the family saw it as a means to try settling old scores.
反抗巴沙尔·阿萨德的武装斗争两年半前开始后，伊萨一家认为这是报仇雪恨的一条途径。
At first, people who know Mr. Issa said, he was a protester, and then he led fighters in small skirmishes. By last year he was running a training camp in the highlands near Turkey.
认识伊萨的一些人表示，起初，他只是参加抗议活动，后来在一些小型冲突中领导武装人员。到了去年，他掌管了离土耳其边境不远的高原地区的一个训练营。
By this year, the aide said, he was gathering weapons from relatives and Arab businessmen he knew from his work as a trader and, at least once, from the Western-supported Supreme Military Council of the Free Syrian Army, the rebel forces.
该助手称，今年他开始从亲戚及做贸易的时候结识的阿拉伯商人那里收集武器，还至少一次从西方支持的反对派武装叙利亚自由军的最高军事委员会(Supreme Military Council of the Free Syrian Army)那里拿到了武器。
(Two representatives of the military council declined to comment on the council’s military collaboration or logistical support for Mr. Issa. Also, Mr. Issa could not be reached for comment over two days this week.)
（军事委员会的两名代表对该委员会与伊萨的军事合作及对其的物资支持不予置评。此外，经过本周两天的努力，本报仍未能联系到伊萨本人发表评论。）
By the spring, his group had taken a resonant name: Jund al-Sham, which it shares with three international terrorist groups, and another group in Syria.
到今年春天，伊萨的队伍有了一个响亮的名字：沙姆军(Jund al-Sham)。另有三个国际恐怖组织和一支叙利亚武装采用这一名号。
Its relationship — if any — with these other groups is not clear.
尚不清楚它与这些同名团体是否有联系，或是有何种联系。
Mr. Issa’s former aide and two other men who have met or investigated him said he appears to assume identities of convenience.
伊萨的前助手，以及另外两名曾经见过或调查过他的人表示，他换用这个名号似乎是出于方便的考虑。
But, they said, his primary tactic has been to attack and promise to his fighters what he calls “the extermination” of Alawites — the minority Islamic sect to which the Assad family belongs, and which Mr. Issa blames for Syria’s suffering.
不过，他们还称，伊萨的主要战术是进攻，以及对手下的武装人员承诺，要让阿拉维派“灭绝”。阿拉维派是阿萨德家族所属的少数伊斯兰教派。伊萨认为，他们要为叙利亚的苦难负责。
This sentiment may have driven Mr. Issa’s decision to execute his prisoners in the video, his former aide said. The soldiers had been captured when Mr. Issa’s fighters overran a government checkpoint north of Idlib in March.
该前助手称，或许是这种情绪驱使伊萨做出决定，进行视频中的处决。其中的士兵是伊萨手下的武装人员在今年3月占领伊德利卜北部的一处政府检查站时俘虏的。
Their cellphones, the former aide said, included videos of soldiers raping Syrian civilians and looting.
这名助手还表示，他们的手机里存有士兵们强奸叙利亚平民和掠夺的视频。
Mr. Issa declared them all criminals, he said, and a revolutionary trial was held. They were found guilty.
他说，伊萨宣布这些人都是罪犯，并让他们接受了革命的审判。结果是判处他们有罪。
Mr. Issa, the former aide said, then arranged for their execution to be videotaped in April so he could show his work against Mr. Assad and his military to donors, and seek more funding.
前助手称，在伊萨的安排下，他们在今年4月被处决，过程被拍成视频，这样他就可以拿来向捐助者展示反抗阿萨德及其军队的成果，从而寻求更多的资助。
The video ends abruptly after his fighters dumped the soldier’s broken bodies into a well. One of the participants, a young man wearing a purple fleece jacket, looked into the camera and smiled.
在伊萨手下的武装人员将政府军士兵血肉模糊的尸体扔进水井后，视频的画面戛然而止。参与处决的一名身穿紫色毛衣的男青年望向镜头，露出了微笑。