BEIRUT — As diplomats at the United Nations push for a peace conference to end Syria’s civil war, a collection of some of the country’s most powerful rebel groups publicly abandoned the opposition’s political leaders, casting their lot with an affiliate of Al Qaeda.
黎巴嫩——就在外交官们在联合国推动召开一个和平会议以终结叙利亚内战的当口，该国实力最强的一些反对派武装团体，一齐抛弃了反对派政治领导层，倒向了基地组织(Al Qaeda)的一个分支机构。
As support for the Western-backed leadership fell away, a second, more extreme Al Qaeda group carved out footholds across parts of Syria, frequently clashing with mainline rebels who accuse it of making the establishment of an Islamic state a priority over the fight to topple President Bashar al-Assad.
随着西方青睐的反对派领导层的支持度逐渐减弱，另一个与基地组织有关的更极端的团体，在叙利亚的部分地区站稳脚跟，与主流反对派频繁冲突。后者指责该团体将建立一个伊斯兰教国家作为首要目标，而不是奋力颠覆总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政权。
The fractured nature of the opposition, the rising radical Islamist character of the rebel fighters, and the increasing complexity of Syria’s battle lines have left the exile leadership with diminished clout inside the country and have raised the question of whether it could hold up its end of any agreement reached to end the war.
反对派本身派系林立、武装人员中激进的伊斯兰主义色彩越来越浓厚，再加上叙利亚战线的复杂性日益加剧，这降低了流亡领导层在国内的影响力，并让外界不禁发出疑问，就算能达成终结战争的协议，该领导层是否有能力履行自己的承诺？
The deep differences between many of those fighting in Syria and the political leaders who have represented the opposition abroad spilled into the open late on Tuesday, when 11 rebel groups declared that the opposition could be represented only by people who have “lived their troubles and shared in what they have sacrificed.”
周二晚间，许多在叙利亚国内作战的武装人员，与在国际上代表反对派的政治领导层之间的深层分歧走向公开。11个武装团体宣布，只有那些“亲身经历了困苦、共同做出了牺牲”的人，才能代表反对派。
Distancing themselves from the exile opposition’s call for a democratic, civil government to replace Mr. Assad, they called on all military and civilian groups in Syria to “unify in a clear Islamic frame.” Those who signed included three groups aligned with the Western-backed opposition’s supreme military council.
与流亡反对派呼吁建立民主的文职政府来取代阿萨德不同，这些武装团体要求叙利亚的所有军事与平民组织“团结到明确的伊斯兰框架内”。与西方支持的反对派最高军事委员会结盟的三个团体已加入其中。
The statement was issued just as Western nations are striving to raise the profile of the “moderate” Syrian political opposition, which is led by Ahmad al-Jarba. The United States and its allies have been reluctant to fully align with and arm the rebels because they are heavily populated by Islamists.
这则声明发布之时，西方国家正在努力提升由艾哈迈德·贾尔巴(Ahmad al-Jarba)领导的，“温和的”叙利亚政治反对派的形象。美国及其盟友一直不愿与反对派武装全面结盟并向其提供武器，因为他们当中很多人是伊斯兰主义者。
France has scheduled an event on Thursday on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly at which Mr. Jarba is to speak along with foreign ministers who have backed him, including Secretary of State John Kerry.
法国安排了一场将于周四举行的联合国大会边会活动，届时贾尔巴会在活动中与支持他的各国外长一起发表讲话，其中包括美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)。
There was no immediate comment from Mr. Jarba, whose coalition is formally known as the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces. Mr. Jarba canceled a news conference that had also been scheduled for Thursday.
贾尔巴所属联盟的全称为“叙利亚反对派和革命力量全国联盟”(National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces)。他没有立即对声明事件发表评论，但取消了同样定于周四举行的一场新闻发布会。
A senior State Department official who accompanied Mr. Kerry to the United Nations meetings this week said that the United States was still trying to strengthen Mr. Jarba’s coalition and suggested that some of the factions that had broken with him might include extremists.
陪同克里参加本周联合国会议的一名国务院高级官员称，美国仍将努力巩固贾尔巴的联盟。此人还表示，与贾尔巴决裂的部分派系中可能包含极端分子。
The latest split in the opposition emerged as the United States, Russia and other permanent members of the United Nations Security Council were making progress on another front: drafting a Council resolution that would enforce an agreement on eliminating Syria’s vast chemical weapons arsenal.
反对派最近这次分裂出现的时机，正值美国与俄罗斯等安理会常任理事国在另一战线上取得进展：起草一个有效力的安理会决议，促使各方就销毁叙利亚庞大的化学武器库达成协议。
A Western diplomat said that about 80 percent of the resolution had been agreed to and that he was “cautiously optimistic” it would be settled this week.
一名西方外交官透露，各方已就决议的80%达成一致，他还以“审慎乐观”的态度认为，本周可以敲定。
The diverse — and fractured — nature of the opposition fighters has raised questions about the opposition’s influence within the country and whether it could hold up its end if an agreement was ever reached for a political solution to end the civil war.
反对派武装多样而分化的特性引发了外界的疑问：反对派在叙利亚国内影响力有多大？就算能达成终结内战的政治协议，它又能否履行自己的承诺？
“At this stage, the political opposition does not have the credibility with or the leverage over the armed groups on the ground to enforce an agreement that the armed groups reject,” said Noah Bonsey, who studies the Syrian opposition for the International Crisis Group.
国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)研究叙利亚反对派的诺亚·邦塞(Noah Bonsey)表示，“目前，反对派政治组织在战场上的武装团体面前，既没有可信度、也没有影响力，无力实行一项被武装团体回绝的协议。”
“You need two parties for an agreement, and there is no viable political alternative to the coalition,” he said, defining a disconnect between the diplomatic efforts taking shaping in New York and the reality across the war-torn country.
“要双方同意才能取得共识，可现在除了这个联盟，没有别的可行的政治实体。”他说，这体现出正在纽约开展的外交努力，与战乱之中的叙利亚现实局势之间的脱节。
Inside Syria, rebel groups that originally formed to respond to crackdowns by Mr. Assad’s forces on political protests have gradually merged into larger groupings, some commanded and staffed by those espousing radical Islamist ideologies. But differences in ideology and competition for scarce foreign support have made it hard for them to unite under an effective, single command.
在叙利亚，反对派团体的最初形成，是为了回应阿萨德的部队对政治抗议的镇压。但这些团体逐渐合并成规模更大的组织，其中一些是由信奉极端伊斯兰主义意识形态的人参与和指挥的。不过出于意识形态分歧，以及对于稀缺的外国支持的竞争，使他们很难团结在一个有效的统一指挥之下。
Seeking to build a moderate front against Mr. Assad, Western nations encouraged the formation of the opposition political coalition. Even though some of its leading members like Mr. Jarba have been imprisoned by the Assad government, the coalition has loose links to many of the rebel fighters on the ground.
西方国家为了构建一个反阿萨德的立场温和的阵线，鼓励反对派形成政治联盟。尽管政治联盟中的一些领导者，如贾尔巴，曾遭到阿萨德政府的监禁，但政治联盟与战场上的许多反对派武装人员只存在松散的联系。
The rebel groups that assailed the political opposition are themselves diverse and include a number that are linked to the coalition’s supreme military council. But more troubling to the West, those same groups signed with the Al Nusra front, a Qaeda-linked group that the United States has designated a terrorist organization.
摒弃政治联盟的反对派团体本身也并不统一，其中的若干个团体与政治联盟的最高军事委员会有联系。但是令西方更为不安的是，同样是这些团体也支持努斯拉阵线(Al Nusra)。后者是一个与基地组织有关的团体，已被美国认定为恐怖组织。
“The brigades that signed have political differences with Nusra, but we agree with them militarily since they want to topple the regime,” said a rebel, who gave his name as Abu Bashir.
一位自称名为阿布·巴希尔(Abu Bashir)的反对派战士表示，“支持努斯拉阵线的部队和他们存在政治分歧，但是我们在军事上认同他们，因为他们想推翻政权。”
A coalition member and aide to Mr. Jarba said the opposition was still studying the development but was surprised at some of the groups that had signed on with the Nusra Front.
一名政治联盟成员、同时也是贾尔巴的助手说，反对派仍在研究局势的发展，他们对某些团体支持努斯拉阵线的举动感到意外。
“The Islamic project is clear and it is not our project,” said the coalition member, Monzer Akbik. “We don’t have a religious project; we have a civil democratic project, and that needs to be clear.”
“他们伊斯兰教的目标很明显，那不是我们的目标，”这名叫做蒙泽尔·阿克比克(Monzer Akbik)的政治联盟成员说。“我们没有宗教目标，我们的目标是公民民主，这一点需要阐明。”
Further complicating the picture is the rise of the new Qaeda franchise, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Syria — or ISIS, which has established footholds across northern and eastern Syria with the intention to lay the foundations of an Islamic state.
基地组织一个新分支的崛起使局势进一步复杂化。伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and the Syria，简称ISIS）在叙利亚东部和北部建立了据点，意在为建立一个伊斯兰教国家打下基础。
In recent months, it has supplanted the Nusra Front as the primary destination for foreign jihadists streaming into Syria, according to rebels and activists who have had contact with the group.
与该组织有接触的反对派武装和活动人士称，近几个月来，这个组织已经取代努斯拉阵线，成为外国圣战分子涌进叙利亚的首选目的地。
Its fighters, who hail from across the Arab world, Chechnya, Europe and elsewhere, have a reputation for being well armed and strong in battle. Its suicide bombers are often dispatched to strike the first blow against government bases.
ISIS的作战人员来自阿拉伯世界各地、车臣、欧洲及其他地区，以装备精良，战斗力强而闻名。在袭击政府军基地时，该组织的自杀式炸弹袭击者常常会被派去打头阵。
But its application of strict Islamic law has isolated rebels and civilians. Its members have executed and beheaded captives in town squares and imposed strict codes, forcing residents to wear modest dress and banning smoking in entire villages.
然而该组织严格实行伊斯兰教法的做法，在反对派武装和平民之间造成了隔阂。该组织成员在镇子的广场上处决、斩首囚犯，实行严格的管制，迫使居民穿着保守的服装，并在整个村子里禁止吸烟。