BEIRUT, Lebanon — President Bashar al-Assad of Syria on Wednesday celebrated his overwhelming victory in a deeply disputed election, asserting his confidence and defiance in the Syrian conflict as supporters savored his success in thwarting the United States.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——周三，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)庆贺自己以压倒性优势赢得了一场深具争议的选举，维护了他的自信心和对叙利亚冲突的藐视，与此同时，阿萨德的支持者则在尽情享受他让美国功亏一篑的胜利。
Syrian officials announced that Mr. Assad had been re-elected with 88.7 percent of the vote and reported turnout of 73.4 percent of eligible voters. Those numbers could be questioned on many levels, but that did not matter much, as the election was primarily a display of Mr. Assad’s continued control of important Syrian cities, the loyalty of his core supporters and the failures of his opposition and its backers.
叙利亚官员宣布，阿萨德以88.7%的得票率再次当选，并通报称，合格选民的投票率达到了73.4%。这些数字在许多层面都存在疑问，不过，鉴于此次选举主要是阿萨德自我炫耀的一场把戏，数字有没有问题，也就没多大关系了。他在戏里炫耀自己继续控制着叙利亚的重镇，炫耀他的核心支持者对他忠贞不二，炫耀他的反对者以及他们的幕后支持者已经失败。
For United States officials, it was a less triumphant day. Mr. Assad’s supporters celebrated with gunfire in Damascus and even in neighboring Lebanon, where Secretary of State John Kerry paid a visit on Wednesday. But the Americans were confronted with a sense that their policy on Syria and in the region was adrift.
对美国官员而言，这是一个不那么值得庆贺的日子。阿萨德的支持者在大马士革鸣枪庆贺，就连邻近的黎巴嫩亦是如此，而周三这天，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)正在黎巴嫩访问。而美国人得到的感受是，美国对叙利亚的政策和对该区域的政策已陷入被动。
The night before, Robert S. Ford, the career diplomat and Arabic speaker who was until recently the nominal ambassador to Syria and the main executor of American policy there, declared on “PBS NewsHour” that he quit his post in February because the policy had failed and he “could no longer defend” it in public. He said that with the United States unwilling to seriously aid potential allies in the Syrian opposition, Russia and Iran had been “driving” the war’s dynamics by hugely increasing their support for Mr. Assad.
周三前一晚，会说阿拉伯语的职业外交官罗伯特·S·福特(Robert S. Ford)在接受PBS《新闻一小时》(PBS NewsHour)采访时说，他在今年2月份辞去大使职务的原因是美对叙政策已失败，他“没法”在公众面前“再为它辩护了”。直到最近之前，他还是名义上的美国驻叙利亚大使兼美国在叙政策主要执行人。他说，由于美国不愿意郑重其事地援助叙利亚反对派中潜在的盟友，俄罗斯和伊朗一直在大举加大他们对阿萨德的支持，以此“催生”战争动力。
In Beirut, where Mr. Kerry made a surprise lightning visit, a Lebanese reporter asked if, given the timing a day after the Syrian election, he had rushed to the region “because of the miscalculation” by United States officials in declaring that Mr. Assad’s days were “numbered.” American officials began calling for Mr. Assad’s ouster and predicting his exit two years ago, raising the opposition’s hopes for substantive aid that has not materialized.
克里出其不意地闪电访问了贝鲁特，那里的一名记者问他，他之所以赶在叙利亚选举的第二天匆匆赶到这个地区访问，是不是美国官员“失算了”，因为他们曾宣布阿萨德的日子“已经屈指可数”。两年以前，美国官员就开始呼吁罢免阿萨德，并预测他会下台，反对派因此对获得大量援助心怀希望，而这种援助并未兑现。
Mr. Kerry tried to leave the news conference after announcing a new American infusion of $290 million for United Nations agencies responding to the regional Syrian refugee crisis and answering preselected questions, but he returned to the podium to respond. Calling the election “a great big zero,” he added that the raging Syrian war and the refugee flows overwhelming Lebanon and other neighbors were destabilizing the region.
克里一度打算离开新闻发布会，但又回到了台上回应提问。此前在发布会上，他宣布美国将向负责应对叙利亚难民区域危机的联合国机构再注入一笔经费，金额为2.9亿美元（约合18亿元人民币），他还回答了一些事先经过挑选的问题。他称叙利亚选举是“一个大大的零分”，他还说，烽火连天的叙利亚战争和大举涌入黎巴嫩及其他邻国的难民搞得这些国家不堪重负，难民潮正在动摇地区稳定。
In his remarks, he deployed a new tone regarding the role of Mr. Assad’s allies. While he blamed them for prolonging the “grotesque” war, he added, “I call on them — Iran, Russia, and I call on Hezbollah, based right here in Lebanon — to engage in the legitimate effort to bring this war to an end.”
在讲话中说到阿萨德的盟友扮演的角色时，他用了一种新的论调。尽管他指责它们延长了这场“荒唐”的战争，但他接着说，“我呼吁它们——伊朗，俄罗斯，我呼吁总部位于此地的真主党(Hezbollah)——通过正当途径结束这场战争。”
Mr. Kerry was most likely not signaling a major shift in American policy toward Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group and political party that the United States lists as a terrorist organization. Still, Randa Slim, an analyst at the Middle East Institute, said it was notable that Mr. Kerry directly addressed the group as a stakeholder that could play a part in resolving the conflict.
克里不太可能是在释放美国对真主党的政策出现重大变化的信号。真主党是黎巴嫩的激进组织，是被美国列为恐怖组织的一个政党。然而，中东研究所(Middle East Institute)的分析人士兰达·斯理姆(Randa Slim)表示，克里直接称该组织是可能参与解决这场冲突的相关方，这一点值得注意。
Some analysts viewed it as a step toward recognition that a settlement could not be reached without all parties to the conflict. Previously, the United States had prevented Iran from taking part in talks.
一些分析人士认为，此举是在更进一步地承认，没有冲突各方的参与就无法达成和解。之前，美国不允许伊朗参加谈判。
Reporters had no chance to ask whether Mr. Kerry agreed with Mr. Ford that United States policy had failed and that the United States had missed a chance to arm nonextremist insurgents despite the recommendations of the State Department. A department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, has said that Mr. Ford was free to express his opinion as a private citizen and acknowledged that no one in the administration was satisfied with what was happening in Syria.
记者没有机会询问克里是否同意福特的观点，即美国的政策失败了，并且尽管国务院提出了建议，但美国错失了将非极端主义起义人员武装起来的机会。国务院女发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)表示，福特作为一名普通公民可以自由表达自己的观点，并承认奥巴马政府的所有人都对叙利亚发生的事情不满。
Mr. Ford was United States ambassador to Syria when the country’s uprising began in 2011. He gained controversial prominence in Syria by addressing protesters in the central city of Hama early in the uprising against the rule of Mr. Assad. The United States government pulled him out, citing credible security threats against him, and he became the point person trying to coordinate American dealings with both the armed and unarmed opposition.
2011年当叙利亚起义开始时，福特是美国驻叙利亚大使。反对阿萨德统治的起义初期，他在中部城市哈马向抗议者发表讲话，因此在叙利亚建立了争议性的名声。美国政府以他受到了可信的安全威胁为由，将其召回。他成了尝试让美国与有武器和没武器的反对派打交道的代表人物。
“We’ve consistently been behind the curve,” Mr. Ford said on Tuesday.
“我们一直落后于形势，”福特周二说。
“We need — and we have long needed — to help moderates in the Syrian opposition with both weapons and other nonlethal assistance,” Mr. Ford added.
“我们需要——长期以来我们一直需要——在武器和其他非致命性援助方面帮助叙利亚反对派中的温和派，”福特接着说。