BEIRUT — Islamist rebels and extremist groups have seized control of most of Syria’s oil and gas resources, a rare generator of cash in the country’s war-battered economy, and are now using the proceeds to underwrite their fights against one another as well as President Bashar al-Assad, American officials say.
贝鲁特——美国官员说，伊斯兰叛乱分子和极端组织夺取了叙利亚多数石油和天然气资源的控制权，正在利用其中的收益支持针对彼此，以及针对总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的斗争。石油和天然气是叙利亚这个饱受战争摧残的经济体中一个难得的资金来源。
While the oil and gas fields are in serious decline, control of them has bolstered the fortunes of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, and the Nusra Front, both of which are offshoots of Al Qaeda. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria is even selling fuel to the Assad government, lending weight to allegations by opposition leaders that it is secretly working with Damascus to weaken the other rebel groups and discourage international support for their cause.
尽管油田和天然气田的数量正在严重减少，对它们的控制权仍然增加了伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）以及努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的财富。这两个组织都是基地组织的分支。伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度甚至在向阿萨德政府出售燃油，这就增加了一些反对派领导人说法的可信度，即该组织正在与大马士革秘密合作，削弱其他反对派组织，阻挠它们获得国际支持。
Although there is no clear evidence of direct tactical coordination between the group and Mr. Assad, American officials say that his government has facilitated the group’s rise not only by purchasing its oil but by exempting some of its headquarters from the airstrikes that have tormented other rebel groups.
尽管没有确凿的证据显示该组织与阿萨德之间有直接的战术配合，但美国的官员们说，通过从该组织购买石油，并且使它的一些总部大楼避免遭受其他组织受到的那种空袭，阿萨德政府为该组织的崛起提供了帮助。
The Nusra Front and other groups are providing fuel to the government, too, in exchange for electricity and relief from airstrikes, according to opposition activists in Syria’s oil regions.
叙利亚石油产区的反对派活动人士说，努斯拉阵线和其他组织也在为政府提供燃油，以换取电力，免遭空袭。
The scramble for Syria’s oil is described by analysts as a war within the broader civil war, one that is turning what was once an essential source of income for Syria into a driving force in a conflict that is tearing the country apart. “Syria is an oil country and has resources, but in the past they were all stolen by the regime,” said Abu Nizar, an antigovernment activist in Deir al-Zour. “Now they are being stolen by those who are profiting from the revolution.”
分析人士称，石油争夺是叙利亚广泛内战中的一场战争，它正在把叙利亚曾经的核心收入来源变成一场冲突中的驱动力。这场冲突正在将叙利亚撕裂。代尔祖尔的反政府活动人士阿布·尼扎尔(Abu Nizar)说，“叙利亚是一个石油国家，拥有资源，但是在过去，资源都被政府偷走了。现在，窃取这些资源的人正在从这场革命受益。”
He described the situation in his oil-rich province as “overwhelming chaos.”
他说，他所在的这个石油富省的局势“极度混乱”。
The Western-backed rebel groups do not appear to be involved in the oil trade, in large part because they have not taken over any oil fields.
西方支持的反对派组织似乎并没有卷入石油贸易，这很大程度上是因为他们没有占领任何油田。
Syria was once an important supplier of oil to Europe, and attracted international oil companies like Royal Dutch Shell and Suncor to develop its fields. Declining even before the anti-Assad uprising began, the oil industry has taken a beating since, with production down to no more than 80,000 barrels a day at the end of 2013 from about 400,000 barrels a day in 2011. Violence has damaged pipelines and other infrastructure, aggravating energy shortages and leaving the country heavily dependent on imports from its allies.
叙利亚曾经是欧洲重要的石油供应商，吸引了荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)和森科能源公司(Suncor Energy Inc.)等跨国石油公司在此地开发油田。叙利亚石油产业在反阿萨德起义爆发之前就开始衰落，此后又遭受了冲击，2013年末的产量下降到了每天仅仅8万桶，2011年为每天40万桶。暴力活动破坏了管线和其他基础设施，加剧了能源短缺，让叙利亚不得不严重依赖来自盟国的石油进口。
As the war has progressed, rebel groups have seized control of the oil and gas fields scattered across the country’s north and east, while Kurdish militias have taken over areas near the border with Iraqi Kurdistan.
随着战争的深入，反对派组织已经夺取了分布在该国北部和东部的油田的控制权，与此同时，库尔德民兵则占领了伊拉克库尔德斯坦边境附近的地区。
Filling the void left by the government’s withdrawal is a Wild West-like patchwork of local efforts to try to wring any possible profit from the remnants of the oil industry. In some areas, locals have used primitive methods to extract usable products from crude they drain from pipelines or storage tanks, often causing environmental and health problems in their communities.
政府撤出后留下的空白，正由当地许多类似于美国旧西部时期的纷繁复杂的力量所填补。这些力量都试图从石油行业的剩余价值中挤压任何可能的利益。在一些地区，当地人用原始的办法从原油中提取可用产品，通常都会给自己的社区造成环境和卫生问题。那些原油是他们从输油管或储油罐搞到的。
Elaborate trade networks have also evolved, with oil being smuggled across borders in plastic jugs and transported by trucks and on donkeys into Iraq and Turkey.
复杂的贸易网也在演变，石油被用塑料罐走私过境，用卡车或毛驴运进伊拉克和土耳其。
“The government practically doesn’t control anything anymore,” said Dragan Vuckovic, president of Mediterranean International, an oil service company that operates across the Middle East and North Africa. “The oil is controlled by crooks and extremists. They sell it for a bargain wherever they can find a buyer.”
“政府实际上也不再控制什么，”在中东和北非开展业务的石油服务公司地中海国际(Mediterranean International)的总裁德拉甘·武奇维克(Dragan Vuckovic)说，“石油都被坏人和极端分子控制着。只要能找到买家，他们就会把石油贱卖出去。”
Oil has proved to be a boon for the extremists of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, who have seized control of most of the oil-rich northern province of Raqqa. The group typically sells crude to middlemen who resell it to the government but sometimes sells it directly to the government, said Omar Abu Laila, a spokesman for the rebels’ Supreme Military Council.
事实证明，石油对伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度的极端分子大有助益。该组织已经控制了石油资源丰富的北部省份拉卡的大部分地区。反对派最高军事委员会(Supreme Military Council)的发言人奥马尔·阿布·莱拉(Omar Abu Laila)称，该组织往往会把原油卖给中间商，再由他们卖给政府，但有时，他们也会直接把原油卖给政府。
“Selling the oil brings in more cash, so why not sell it to the regime, which offers higher prices?” he asked.
“卖石油是为了带来更多现金，所以为什么不卖给出价更高的政府呢？”他问道。
Denied access to Syria’s oil regions, Mr. Assad’s government has become increasingly dependent on its foreign allies and imports most of its fuel from Iran and Iraq, while Hezbollah smuggles diesel and gasoline over the border from Lebanon, according to regional oil experts. The opposition also accuses Syria’s Kurds of providing the government with oil.
该地区的石油专家称，因为无法再进入叙利亚的产油区，阿萨德政府越来越依赖外国盟友，大部分燃料都进口自伊朗和伊拉克，而真主党(Hezbollah)则从黎巴嫩将柴油和汽油走私过境。反对派还指责道，叙利亚的库尔德人也为政府提供石油。
While rebel oil revenues are small by world market standards, they can help groups exercise local power as well as finance their operations.
尽管以世界市场的标准来看，反对派的石油收入微不足道，但它们能帮助这些组织在自己的地盘行使权力，为行动提供资金。
“Even sold at discounted prices, this oil could be generating significant revenue for rebels to arm themselves,” said Badr H. Jafar, chairman of Crescent Petroleum, a regional oil and gas company based in the United Arab Emirates.
“尽管售价便宜，但这些石油可以为叛军带来可观的收入，用来武装自己，”总部设在阿联酋的地区性石油和天然气公司新月石油公司(Crescent Petroleum)的董事长巴德尔·H·贾法尔(Badr H. Jafar)说。
The politics of the local oil trade can be complex, insiders say. When the government first withdrew from the oil fields of Deir al-Zour Province in the country’s east, said Abu Nizar, an activist there, rebel brigades and local tribes took control of wells and sold or tried to refine whatever oil they could extract to buy arms. Recently, however, most of the area’s rebel brigades have left the administration of the wells to an Islamic legal commission set up to run local affairs, he said.
内部人士称，当地石油贸易背后的政治因素可能比较复杂。当地活动人士阿布·尼扎尔(Abu Nizar)称，当政府最初从该国东部的代尔祖尔省的油田撤出时，反对派武装力量和当地部落就控制了油井，出售或试图自己提炼任何石油产品，以购买武器。但他表示，最近该地区的大部分反对派武装都将油井的管理交给了一个伊斯兰法律委员会。该委员会是为管理地方事务而设立的。
One facility the group controls is a natural gas plant that feeds a major power station near Homs that is still controlled by the government.
该组织控制的设施包括一个天然气厂，该厂为仍然处在政府控制下的霍姆斯附近的一家大型发电站供应燃料。
“We can’t cut off the gas because it would lead to a power cut in a large part of Syria,” Abu Nizar said.
“我们不能切断天然气供应，因为这样做可能导致叙利亚很大一部分地方断电，”阿布·尼扎尔说。
“Let’s be honest. Some of the wells were used to arm the rebels and to fund aid operations,” he said, “but unfortunately the majority were robbed and exploited by thieves.”
“老实说。部分油井的确被用来武装叛乱分子，为援助行动提供资金，”他说，“但遗憾的是，大部分都被窃贼抢走和利用了。”