WASHINGTON — In asking Congress to authorize an attack on Syria over claims it used chemical weapons, President Obama has chosen to involve lawmakers in deciding whether to undertake a military intervention that in some respects resembles the limited types that many presidents — Ronald Reagan in Grenada, Bill Clinton in Kosovo and even Mr. Obama in Libya — have launched on their own.
华盛顿——当奥巴马总统要求美国国会授权对叙利亚进行打击时，他是在选择邀请立法者一同决定，是否要对这个被认为使用了化学武器的国家采取军事干预。此次军事干预将在某些方面与多位总统独自决定进行的局部战争类似，比如罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)在格林纳达、比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在科索沃，乃至奥巴马在利比亚所进行的战争。
But on another level, the proposed strike is unlike anything that has come before — an attack inside the territory of a sovereign country, without its consent, without a self-defense rationale and without the authorization of the United Nations Security Council or even the participation of a multilateral treaty alliance like NATO, and for the purpose of punishing an alleged war crime that is already over rather than preventing an imminent disaster.
但是从另一个层面而言，美国提出的打击与此前的任何打击都有不同——它将发生在一个主权国家的领土上，未征得该国同意，没有自卫依据，也没有得到联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的授权，甚至也没有像北约(NATO)这样的多边联盟的参与，其目的只是为了惩罚一次声称的、已结束的战争罪行，而不是为了防止一场迫近的灾难。
The contrasting moves, ceding more of a political role to Congress domestically while expanding national war powers on the international stage, underscore the complexity of Mr. Obama’s approach to the Syrian crisis. His administration pressed its case on Sunday, saying it had won Saudi backing for a strike, even as the Syrian president warned he would retaliate.
一方面在国内把政治权力更多地让给了国会，一方面在国际舞台上又要进行国家战争力量的扩张，这种行动上的反差突显了奥巴马在叙利亚危机应对上的复杂性。奥巴马政府于周日强调了自己的理由，称它的打击计划已经获得了沙特阿拉伯的支持，尽管叙利亚总统曾警告他会报复。
Mr. Obama’s strategy ensures that no matter what happens, the crisis is likely to create an important precedent in the often murky legal question of when presidents or nations may lawfully use military force.
奥巴马的策略保证了不论发生什么，这场危机都很可能会在一个通常不甚明确的法律问题上创造一个重要先例，即各国总统或各国何时才能合法使用武力。
Kathryn Ruemmler, the White House counsel, said the president believed a strike would be lawful, both in international law and domestic law, even if neither the Security Council nor Congress approves it. But the novel circumstances, she said, led Mr. Obama to seek Congressional concurrence to bolster its legitimacy.
白宫顾问凯瑟琳·鲁姆勒(Kathryn Ruemmler)说，总统认为，即便安理会和国会都没有批准这次攻击，根据国际法和国内法，发动袭击都将是合法的。但是她说，鉴于情况特殊，奥巴马希望能得到国会认可，以加强其合法性。
The move is right, said Walter Dellinger, who led the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel in the Clinton administration, because the proposed attack is not “covered by any of the previous precedents for the unilateral use of executive power.”
克林顿政府司法部(Justice Department)法律顾问办公室(Office of Legal Counsel)的负责人沃尔特·戴林杰(Walter Dellinger)说，这种策略是正确的，因为奥巴马政府提出的攻击找不到“任何单边使用行政权的先例。”
“That doesn’t mean it couldn’t become another precedent,” Mr. Dellinger added. “But when the president is going beyond where any previous president has gone, it seems appropriate to determine whether Congress concurs.”
“这并不意味着这种做法不会成为另一个先例，”戴林杰还说。“但是，当奥巴马总统处在一个此前所有总统都没有给出先例的情况下，确定国会是否同意似乎也是合适的。”
Disputes about whether and when a president or nation may launch an act of war can be hazy because courts generally do not issue definitive answers about such matters. Instead presidents, and countries, createprecedents that over time can become generally accepted as a gloss on what written domestic laws and international treaties permit.
关于某国元首或某个国家是否能发动战争以及何时发动战争的争议往往很模糊，这是因为法院通常无法对此类事情给出明确答案。相反，随着时间流逝，各位总统、各个国家所开创的先例会普遍被人们接受，成为成文的国内法和国际条约许可的注解内容。
Against that backdrop, many legal scholars say Mr. Obama is proposing to violate international law. But others contend that the question is ambiguous, without any clear answer, and some suggest that the United States could establish a precedent creating new international law if it strikes.
在这种背景下，很多法律专家都说奥巴马是在试图违反国际法。但是也有人认为这个问题存在争议，根本无法给出明确答案，还有人指出，如果美国进行打击，它就能创造一个创立新国际法规的先例。
The United States has intervened without a self-defense rationale or Security Council approval before, most notably in Kosovo. But in that case, it did so as part of NATO and in response to a time-urgent problem: stopping a massacre of civilians. In 1983, Mr. Reagan invaded Grenada without Congressional approval, citing the “formal request” of five neighboring Caribbean states and the need to protect Americans on the island.
此前，美国也曾在既非出于自我防御目的也未得到安理会许可的情况下进行军事干预，其中最突出就是科索沃战争。但是当时，它是作为北约成员发动袭击的，并且为了应对一个紧迫的问题：制止一场针对平民的屠杀。1983年，里根在没有得到国会批准的情况下入侵了格林纳达，其理由是五个加勒比邻国发出了“正式请求”，而且他们还需要保护岛上的美国人。
By contrast, the United States would carry out strikes on Syria largely alone, and to punish an offense that has already occurred. That crime, moreover, is defined by two treaties banning chemical weapons, only one of which Syria signed, that contain no enforcement provisions. Such a strike has never happened before.
相比之下，美国很可能会单独对叙利亚发动攻击，对一项已经发生的罪行进行惩罚。此外，定义该罪名的是两部禁止使用化学武器的条约，叙利亚只签署了其中一部，而且条约中并没有关于执行的条款。这样的打击堪称前所未有。
Attempts to deal with the novelty of the crisis in international law have become entangled in the separate domestic law question of whether the president could order strikes on Syria without Congressional permission.
以国际法应对此次危机抛出的新问题的尝试，已经和另一个国内法律问题交织在了一起，这个问题就是，总统是否应该在未获国会批准的条件下，下令攻击叙利亚。
In recent weeks, administration lawyers decided that it was within Mr. Obama’s constitutional authority to carry out a strike on Syria as well, even without permission from Congress or the Security Council, because of the “important national interests” of limiting regional instability and of enforcing the norm against using chemical weapons, said Ms. Ruemmler.
鲁姆勒说，最近几周美国政府律师得出结论说，即使没有国会或安理会的批准，根据宪法授权，奥巴马依然有权对叙利亚发动攻击，这是出于“重要的国家利益”考量，目的是限制区域不稳定和执行反对使用化学武器的基本准则。
But even if he could act alone, that left the question of whether he should. The lack of a historical analogue and traditional factors that have justified such operations, she said, contributed to his decision to go to Congress.
可是，即使奥巴马能单独行动，他依然面临是否应当行动的问题。她说，往日并无这样的案例,也没有支持此类行动的惯例因素，这些原因促使奥巴马决定向国会求援。
“The president believed that it was important to enhance the legitimacy of any action that would be taken by the executive,” Ms. Ruemmler said, “to seek Congressional approval of that action and have it be seen, again as a matter of legitimacy both domestically and internationally, that there was a unified American response to the horrendous violation of the international norm against chemical weapons use.”
“总统相信，强化执政者要采取的任何行动的合法性，是一件重要的事情，” 鲁姆勒说。“去寻求国会对行动的批准，申明这无论在国内和国际上都是一个正当举措，是美国人对违反国际准则、使用化学武器的骇人行为做出的一致反应。”
At a news conference last week, Mr. Obama argued that the United States should “get out of the habit” of having the president “stretch the boundaries of his authority as far as he can” while lawmakers “snipe” from the sidelines. But he also explained his decision in terms of very special circumstances: humanitarian interventions where there is no immediate pressure to act and the United Nations is blocked.
在上周的新闻发布会上，奥巴马提出，美国必须摆脱让总统“随心所欲地扩大自己的权限”，而议员们从旁“打冷枪”的“习惯”。不过，他也解释说他的决定是因为情况非常特殊：要在一个没有立即采取行动的必要、联合国的行动也受阻的地方进行人道主义干预。
Jack Goldsmith, a head of the Office of Legal Counsel in the Bush administration, said the limited criteria cited by Mr. Obama mean his move might not apply to more traditional future interventions similar to Grenada or even Libya. The more important precedent, he said, may concern international law and what he portrayed as Mr. Obama’s dismissive attitude toward whether not having permission from the Security Council should stop humanitarian interventions.
布什(Bush)政府时期的法律顾问办公室主任杰克·戈德史密斯(Jack Goldsmith)说，奥巴马援引的有限理由表明，在未来类似格林纳达乃至利比亚这样的较为传统的干预中，他此次的举措是不适用的。他说，它作为先例的意义可能主要在于国际法，此外还表明了奥巴马的一种态度，在安理会拒绝授权能否阻止美国进行人道主义干预的问题上，他形容奥巴马是不屑一顾的。
Mr. Obama has in recent days repeatedly portrayed the Security Council system as incapable of performing its function of “enforcing international norms and international law,” and as so paralyzed by the veto power wielded by Russia that it is instead acting as a “barrier” to that goal.
最近几天，奥巴马再三把安理会刻画成一个“无力履行国际准则和国际法”职责的系统，而俄罗斯动用否决权让该体系陷入了瘫痪，更是对该目标的实现构成了一道“障碍”。
Mr. Goldsmith said that in the Kosovo campaign, the Clinton administration shied away from arguing that it was consistent with international law to carry out a military attack not authorized by the Security Council purely for humanitarian reasons. Its fear was that such a doctrine could be misused by other nations, loosening constraints on war.
戈德史密斯说，在科索沃行动中，克林顿政府提出的说法是它在遵循国际法，出于纯粹的人道主义原因发动了一场没有获得安理会授权的军事攻击。政府的担忧是，这种说辞会被其他国家滥用，放松对战争的限制。
Steven G. Bradbury, a head of the Office of Legal Counsel in the Bush administration, said it would be “politically difficult” to order strikes if Congress refused to approve them. But he predicted future presidents would not feel legally constrained to echo Mr. Obama’s request. “Every overseas situation, every set of exigent circumstances, is a little different, so I don’t really buy that it’s going to tie future presidents’ hands very much,” he said.
布什政府时期的法律顾问办公室主任斯蒂文·G·布雷德伯里(Steven G. Bradbury)说，如果国会拒绝批准打击行动，下令攻击将面临“政治困难”。不过他预测，今后的总统不会觉得在法律上有义务重复奥巴马的这种请求。他说，“每一次的海外局势、每一次的紧迫情况，都存在轻微的差异，所以，对于这次行动会在很大程度上束缚未来总统的手脚的说法，我是不大赞同的。”
But Harold H. Bruff, a University of Colorado law professor who is one of the authors of a casebook on the separation of powers, argued that the episode would have enduring political ramifications. “I’m sure that Obama or some later president will argue later that they can still choose whether or not to go to Congress,” he said. “But it does raise the political cost of a future president not going to Congress because the precedent will be cited against him or her.”
不过，科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)法学教授哈罗德·H·布拉夫(Harold H. Bruff)辩称，此次事件会产生长远的政治后果。布拉夫是一本分权案例汇编集的作者之一，他说，“我确信，奥巴马或今后的某位总统以后会主张，他们依然有权选择是否把事情交由国会讨论。不过，这件事确实提高了今后的总统不求助于国会的政治成本，因为有人会援引此次先例反对他/她。”