BEIRUT — Scores of men, women and children were killed outside Damascus Wednesday in an attack marked by the telltale signs of chemical weapons: row after row of corpses without visible injury; hospitals flooded with victims, gasping for breath, trembling and staring ahead languidly; images of a gray cloud bursting over a neighborhood.
贝鲁特——本周三，有数十名男女老少在大马士革外的一次袭击中丧生，袭击显示出使用化学武器的迹象：一排排的尸体上并没有明显伤口；医院里挤满了呼吸困难、瑟瑟发抖、目光呆滞的受害者；还有图像显示，某社区上空升起了一团灰色烟云。
But even with videos, witness accounts and testimonies by emergency medics, it was impossible to say for certain how many people had been killed and what exactly had killed them. The rebels blamed the government, the government denied involvement and Russia accused the rebels of staging the attack to implicate President Bashar al-Assad’s government.
但是，即便有录像、目击者的讲述，以及急救人员的证词，还是无法确定死亡人数和死亡原因。反对派认为政府应对此负责，而政府则否定此事与自己有关，俄罗斯还指责此次袭击是反对派为了嫁祸于总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府而蓄意导演的。
Images of death and chaos poured out of Syria after what may be the single deadliest attack in more than two years of civil war. Videos posted online showed dozens of lifeless bodies, men wrapped in burial shrouds and children, some still in diapers. There were hospital scenes of corpses and the stricken sprawled on gurneys and tile floors as medics struggled to resuscitate them.
这可能是两年多的内战中，致死人数最多的一次袭击。袭击发生后，叙利亚传出了大量反映死亡场景和混乱景象的图像。从网上发布的视频可以看到数十具尸体，其中既有裹着尸布的男子也有儿童，有些孩子还穿着尿布。在医院里拍摄的画面中也可看到尸体，受害者躺在轮床或地板上，而医护人员则在努力挽救他们的生命。
Getting to the bottom of the assault could well alter the course of the conflict and affect the level of the West’s involvement.
探究这场袭击的真相，很可能会改变冲突的走向，而且还会影响西方介入的程度。
President Obama said almost exactly a year ago that the use of chemical weapons was a red line. But the subsequent conclusion by the White House that the Syrian Army had used chemical weapons did not bring about a marked shift in American engagement.
几乎刚好在一年前，奥巴马总统曾表示动用化学武器是一条红线。但是，白宫随后得出结论，叙利亚军方曾使用化学武器，但这并没有使美国对叙利亚内战的介入程度发生明显变化。
This latest attack, by far the largest chemical strike yet alleged, could tip that balance — as many foes of Mr. Assad hope it will.
这次袭击是据称发生的化学武器袭击中规模最大的一起，比其他的化学袭击事件更为严重。这样一场袭击可能会扭转局面，这也是很多阿萨德反对者所希望的。
But like so much in Syria, where the government bars most reporters from working and the opposition heavily filters the information it lets out, the truth remains elusive.
然而，叙利亚政府禁止大多数记者进行报道，而反对派所披露的讯息往往又经过严格的筛选，所以和该国的许多事件一样，此次袭击的真相仍然不得而知。
The attack was especially conspicuous given the presence in Damascus of a team sent by the United Nations to investigate chemical strikes reportedly waged earlier in the war. The United States, the European Union and other world powers called for the investigators to visit the site of Wednesday’s attack.
据报道，在内战期间，叙利亚在较早以前就曾使用过化学武器，为了调查此事，联合国(United Nations)向大马士革派遣了工作组。有鉴于此，这次袭击尤为引人注目。美国、欧盟(European Union)及其他大国都呼吁调查人员前往周三的袭击地点进行调查。
The Security Council, meeting in emergency session, issued a statement calling for a prompt investigation of the allegations and a cease-fire in the conflict, but took no further action.
联合国安全理事会(Security Council)召开了紧急会议，并发布声明呼吁有关方面尽快展开调查，要求冲突各方达成停火协议，但除此以外并无进一步举措。
“I can say that there is a strong concern among Council members about the allegations and a general sense that there must be clarity on what happened, and that the situation has to be followed carefully,” said María Cristina Perceval of Argentina, the president of the 15-member Council, after the meeting. “All Council members agreed that any use of chemical weapons, by any side under any circumstances, is a violation of international law.”
“可以说，安理会成员国非常关注这些情况，而且普遍认为必须把事情调查清楚，还必须密切关注事态发展，”安理会（共有15个成员国）轮值主席国阿根廷的玛丽亚·克里斯蒂娜·佩瑟瓦尔(María Cristina Perceval)在会后说。“所有安理会成员都认为，任何一方在任何情况下使用任何化学武器，都是违反国际法的行为。”
In the opposition’s account of the deadly events, Mr. Assad’s forces deployed poison gas on a number of rebel-held suburbs east of Damascus, the capital. They described medics finding people dead in their homes.
根据反对派对这起致命袭击的讲述，在叙利亚首都大马士革以东郊区由反对派占领的几个区域，阿萨德的军队释放了毒气。反对派描述，医护人员在居民家中发现有人死亡。
Videos posted online showed mostly men and children, but the opposition activists said that many women were killed too, but that out of respect they were not photographed.
网上发布的视频显示，死者多为男子和儿童，但是反对派活动人士称，很多女性也在袭击中遇害，但是出于尊重，便没有对她们进行拍摄。
The actual death toll remained unclear. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said late Wednesday that more than 130 people had been confirmed dead in attacks around Damascus, though it could not confirm the use of gas. Other opposition estimates put the death toll at more than 1,000.
实际的死亡人数尚不清楚。叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)表示，截至周三晚些时候，已有超过130人确认在大马士革周边的袭击中丧生，但他们无法确认是否使用了毒气。反对派给出的其他估计数字显示，死亡人数已超过1000人。
The video record posted online did not provide enough detail to draw a complete picture of what happened. Unlike the videos often uploaded by the opposition, the images on Wednesday did not show the immediate aftermath of the attacks in the communities.
上传到网上的视频中，并没有提供足够多的细节来展示所发生事件的全景。与反对派通常上传到网上的视频不同，周三的画面中并没有显示出社区受到袭击的直接后果。
The videos, experts said, also did not prove the use of chemical weapons, which interfere with the nervous system and can cause defecation, vomiting, intense salivation and tremors. Only some of those symptoms were visible in some patients.
专家表示，视频也无法证明化学武器的使用。这种武器会干扰人的神经系统，引起排泄、呕吐、大量分泌唾液和颤抖。而只有其中的部分症状出现在一些患者身上。
Gwyn Winfield, editor of CBRNe World, a journal that covers unconventional weapons, said that the medics would most likely have been sickened by exposure to so many people dosed with chemical weapons — a phenomenon not seen in the videos. He said that the victims could have been killed by tear gas used in a confined space, or by a diluted form of a more powerful chemical agent. Others suggested that toxic industrial chemicals might have been used.
关注非常规武器的期刊《核化生辐爆世界》(CBRNe World)的编辑格温·温菲尔德(Gwyn Winfield)说，如果与这么多遭受化学武器袭击的人接触，医护人员很有可能会出现不适症状，而视频中并没有反映出这一点。他说，受害者可能死于在密闭空间里投放的催泪瓦斯，或者是某种经过稀释的、杀伤力更强的化学制剂。其他人则说，可能是使用了有毒的工业用化学品。
It was not clear whether the team sent to Syria by the United Nations would be able to investigate the new reported attacks. The team arrived Sunday after months of negotiations with the Syrian government and is authorized to visit only three predetermined sites.
还不清楚联合国派往叙利亚的小组是否能够调查最新的袭击事件。在与叙利亚政府经过数月谈判后，该小组终于在周日抵达叙利亚，却仅被授权访问三处预先确定的地点。
The White House said that Syria should provide access to the United Nations, and that those found to have used chemical weapons should be held accountable. Other countries, including Britain and France, offered similar expressions of concern.
白宫认为，叙利亚应对联合国敞开大门，而那些被证实使用了化学武器的人也应为此承担后果。包括英国、法国在内的其他国家也表达了同样的担忧。
Russia wrote off the attack as a “preplanned provocation” orchestrated by the rebels and said they had launched the gas with a homemade rocket from an area they controlled.
俄罗斯称，袭击事件不过是“预先安排的挑衅”，是由反政府武装一手导演的，还说反政府武装从他们控制的一个区域用土制火箭发射了毒气。
“All of this looks like an attempt at all costs to create a pretext for demanding that the U.N. Security Council side with opponents of the regime and undermine the chances of convening the Geneva conference,” said the statement, issued by Aleksandr Lukashevich, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. He also called for a “professional and fair investigation.”
俄罗斯外交部新闻发言人亚历山大·卢卡舍维奇(Aleksandr Lukashevich)发表的一份声明说道，“所有这一切看上去都像是一个不惜代价制造出的借口，来要求联合国安理会和反对当局人站在一边，破坏召开日内瓦会议的机会。”卢卡舍维奇还呼吁进行“专业和公正的调查”。
At least one photograph posted on Facebook by an activist showed what looked like a makeshift rocket. But loyalist militias and Hezbollah have both fired makeshift rockets at rebel positions in this war, and could presumably be suspects for any attacks with improvised rockets on rebel-controlled neighborhoods.
一位活动人士上传到Facebook上的一些照片中，至少有一张看上去像是一枚土制火箭。但在这场内战中，效忠政府的民兵组织和真主党(Hezbollah)都曾向反政府武装驻点发射土制火箭，因此可以合理地推断，任何以土制火箭向反政府武装控制区发起的袭击，这些组织都有嫌疑。
The Syrian Army, in a statement read on state television, denied having used chemical weapons, calling the accusations part of a “filthy media war” in favor of the rebels. The claims “are nothing but a desperate effort to cover their defeat on the ground, and reflect the state of hysteria, confusion and collapse of these gangs and those who support them,” the statement said.
叙利亚军方在国有电视台宣读了一份声明，否认曾使用过化学武器，称这种指控是为了让反政府武装受益，而发起的一场“肮脏的媒体战”。声明中说，这些指责“不过是徒劳地想要掩盖他们在战场上的失利，这也反映出这伙人及其支持者已经陷入了歇斯底里、混乱崩溃的状态”。