GENEVA — Syria is likely to miss its year-end deadline for getting its most deadly chemical weapons out of the country despite an international effort to mobilize the resources needed to do so, according to the United Nations and the international monitoring group overseeing the program.
日内瓦——联合国和相关国际监管机构称，尽管国际上动用了所需的资源，但叙利亚很可能会错过在今年年底之前将最危险化学武器运送出境的最后期限。
Syria has until mid-2014 to destroy its chemical weapons program under the deal struck by Russia and the United States in September. To meet that challenging timetable, it agreed with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to remove about 500 tons of its most toxic chemicals by the end of this year and the remaining roughly 700 tons of chemicals in its stockpile by early February.
根据俄罗斯和美国9月达成的协议，叙利亚必须在2014年年中之前销毁其化武项目。这一时间安排极具挑战性，为了完成该目标，叙利亚与禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons，简称OPCW）达成一致，同意在今年年底之前转移大约500吨最危险的化武制剂，并在明年2月初之前转移其储备中剩余的大约700吨化武制剂。
“At this stage, transportation of the most critical chemical material before 31 December is unlikely,” the United Nations and the chemical weapons group said in a joint statement released Saturday. They said that volatile security in Syria had “constrained planned movements” and that logistical problems and bad weather had contributed to the delay.
联合国和禁止化学武器组织在周六联合发布的一份声明中说，“目前来看，在12月31日之前将最危险的化武制剂运输出去已经不太可能。”这两家机构说，叙利亚动荡的安全形势“限制了计划中的行动”，各种物流问题和糟糕的天气也导致了延误。
The OPCW had warned of possible delays when it approved the plan, and the statement noted the “important progress” Syria has made in dismantling its chemical weapons program in the past three months.
OPCW在批准该计划时就警告可能出现延误。声明还指出，过去三个月，叙利亚在消除化武项目方面取得了“重要进展”。
The plan the group agreed to earlier this month called for Syria to transport the “critical” chemicals, including some 20 tons of sulfur mustard and precursors for making sarin and VX nerve gas, from 12 storage sites to the port of Latakia. Danish and Norwegian ships are to then transport them under naval escort to an Italian port for transfer to a U.S. vessel fitted with special equipment for destroying them at sea.
根据该组织本月早些时候批准的计划，叙利亚需要将“关键”化学品，包括来自12个存放点的大约20吨芥子毒气，以及制作沙林和VX神经毒气的原料，运送到拉塔基亚港。丹麦和挪威的船只将在海军护卫下将它们运至一个意大利港口，然后转移到美国船只上，该船配有在海上销毁化学品的特殊设备。
Once movement of the chemicals gets underway the mission can be conducted quite quickly, but it appears that Syria has not yet started transporting any chemicals, according to observers familiar with the mission, who spoke only on the condition they not be identified publicly because of the sensitivity of the issue.
一旦运输启动，这个任务很快就能完成，但根据熟悉这一任务的观察人士说，似乎叙利亚还没开始运输任何化武制剂。因为问题的敏感性，这些观察人士要求匿名。
Syria now has “virtually all” of the logistical and security assets it needs to undertake the movement of its chemical weapons, Ahmet Uzumcu, head of the OPCW, said in a statement released after a meeting Friday. But transporting the chemicals by road to Latakia poses a particular challenge. Syrian government forces, which reportedly control the road from Damascus to the port, may still face the danger of rebel attacks.
在周五一个会议之后发布的声明中，OPCW总干事艾哈迈德·于聚姆居(Ahmet Uzumcu)说，叙利亚现在具备实施化学武器运输所需的“几乎所有的”物流和安全条件。但从陆路向拉塔基亚港运输化学品仍然是一个特殊挑战。叙利亚政府军据称控制着从大马士革到该港口的道路，但它仍然面临着反对派袭击的危险。