BEIRUT — Syria’s divided city of Aleppo plunged back into the kind of all-out war not seen in months Thursday, witnesses and health workers said as they reeled from government airstrikes that demolished a hospital in the insurgent-held side and from retaliatory mortar assaults by rebels on the government-held side. 
贝鲁特——本周四，据目击者和医疗人员称，被割据的叙利亚城市阿勒颇重新陷入了数月未见的全面战争。政府军空袭了武装分子占据的地带，炸毁了一所医院，而武装分子对政府军占据的一侧进行了报复性的迫击炮攻击。
At least 27 people including three children and six staff members were reported killed in the strike on the hospital, which turned it into a smoking pile of rubble Wednesday night, and 20 were reported killed in airstrikes Thursday. At least 14 people, mostly civilians, were killed in the mortar attacks on government-controlled areas, said officials at a hospital where casualties were streaming in throughout the day Thursday. 
据报道，至少有27人在医院遭受的空袭中丧生，其中包括三名儿童和六名医院工作人员。周三晚上，这所医院变成了一堆冒着烟的废墟。周四的报道称，有20人在空袭中丧生。而在政府控制区的一所医院里，官员称至少有14人在针对该区的迫击炮袭击中丧生，其中大多数是平民，周四一整天不断有伤员被送到该医院。
The deadly destruction in Aleppo punctuated a drastic escalation in fighting over the past week that has shattered a partial truce in a war that has consumed Syria for more than five years. 
阿勒颇发生的这些伤亡惨重的摧毁行动，是过去一周中战况急剧升级的体现。叙利亚内战已经持续了五年多时间，一个局部停火协议现在已遭撕毁。
The escalation also threatened to derail renewed attempts at peace talks in Geneva by the United Nations. 
战况的升级，可能也会扰乱联合国在日内瓦再次举行和谈的尝试。
Once Syria’s commercial center, Aleppo has been an intermittent combat zone for much of the war, split into insurgent and government halves. It had enjoyed somewhat of a respite because of the partial cease-fire — until now. 
阿勒颇曾是叙利亚的商业中心，它先后成了多场战役的战区，现在被武装分子和政府军各占据了一半。局部停火协议给这座城市带来了稍加喘息的机会——但现在情况变了。
There was no indication that the Syrian government forces of President Bashar Assad and their Russian allies were any closer to retaking the entire city. But it had become apparent in recent days that the truce was unraveling in the surrounding area, with more airstrikes by the government and increased shelling by rebels. 
没有迹象表明叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)领导的政府军及其俄罗斯盟友，离夺回整座城市更进了一步。但最近几天，周边地区的停火状态明显被打破，政府军的空袭增加，反政府武装也加强了炮击。
The location of Al Quds hospital, the destroyed facility on the rebel side of the city, was well known, and the hospital was assisted by the international charity Doctors Without Borders. 
被炸毁的圣城医院(Al Quds)位于该市被反政府武装控制的一侧。医院的位置众所周知，且该医院得到了国际慈善机构无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)的援助。
“This devastating attack has destroyed a vital hospital in Aleppo, and the main referral center for pediatric care in the area,” the head of the charity’s Syria mission, Muskilda Zancada, said in a statement. “Where is the outrage among those with the power and obligation to stop this carnage?” 
“被这场毁灭性的袭击摧毁的医院在阿勒颇至关重要，也是该地区主要的儿科护理转诊中心，”无国界医生组织的叙利亚项目负责人穆斯希达·桑卡达(Muskilda Zancada)在一份声明中说。“那些有能力、有义务结束这场大屠杀的人的愤怒哪里去了？”
Russia’s military denied it was responsible. 
俄罗斯军方否认其应对此事负责。
The International Committee of the Red Cross called on all parties to stop indiscriminate attacks and to avoid harming civilians or Aleppo would face what it called a new humanitarian disaster. 
红十字国际委员会(International Committee of the Red Cross)呼吁各方停止肆意袭击，避免伤及平民，并称否则阿勒颇将面临一场新的人道主义灾难。