WASHINGTON — As the United States begins what could be a lengthy military campaign against the Islamic State, intelligence and law enforcement officials said another Syrian group, led by a shadowy figure who was once among Osama bin Laden’s inner circle, posed a more direct threat to America and Europe.
华盛顿——随着美国将展开一场对伊斯兰国可能漫长的军事行动，情报和执法官员表示，另一个叙利亚组织对美国和欧洲构成更直接的威胁，该组织由曾属于奥萨马·本·拉丹核心圈子的一个神秘人物领导。
American officials said that the group called Khorasan had emerged in the past year as the cell in Syria that may be the most intent on hitting the United States or its installations overseas with a terror attack. The officials said that the group is led by Muhsin al-Fadhli, a senior Qaeda operative who, according to the State Department, was so close to Bin Laden that he was among a small group of people who knew about the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks before they were launched.
美国官员说，这个组织的名字是霍拉桑(Khorasan)，在过去一年里，它已成为最有可能对美国及其海外设施发动恐怖袭击的叙利亚小组。官员表示，该组织的领导人是基地组织高级特工穆赫辛·法德赫里(Muhsin al-Fadhli)，据国务院说，他与本·拉登的关系非常之密切，他属于在2001年9月11日袭击发生之前就知道该计划的小圈子。
There is almost no public information about the Khorasan group, which was described by several intelligence, law enforcement and military officials as being made up of Qaeda operatives from across the Middle East, South Asia and North Africa. Members of the cell are said to be particularly interested in devising terror plots using concealed explosives. It is unclear who, besides Mr. Fadhli, is part of the Khorasan group. 
目前几乎没有有关霍拉桑的公开信息，几名情报、执法和军事官员描述其由来自中东、南亚和北非的基地组织特工组成。该小组的成员据说对设计使用隐藏性爆炸物的恐暴阴谋特别感兴趣。目前还不清楚除了法德赫里之外，还有谁是霍拉桑的成员。
The director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., said on Thursday that “in terms of threat to the homeland, Khorasan may pose as much of a danger as the Islamic State.”
国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)上周四说，“就美国本土来说，霍拉桑和伊斯兰国可能构成同样大的威胁。”
Some American officials and national security experts said the intense focus on the Islamic State had distorted the picture of the terrorism threat that has emerged from the chaos of Syria’s civil war, and that the more immediate threats still come from traditional terror groups like Khorasan and the Nusra Front, which is Al Qaeda’s designated affiliate in Syria.
一些美国官员和国家安全专家表示，对伊斯兰国的过度聚焦扭曲了叙利亚内战混乱所产生的恐怖主义威胁的全景，更直接的威胁仍然来自传统的恐怖组织，比如霍拉桑，以及基地组织在叙利亚的指定分支机构努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)。
Mr. Fadhli, 33, has been tracked by American intelligence agencies for at least a decade. According to the State Department, before Mr. Fadhli arrived in Syria, he had been living in Iran as part of a small group of Qaeda operatives who had fled to the country from Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks. Iran’s government said the group was living under house arrest, but the exact circumstances of the Qaeda operatives were disputed for years, and many members of the group ultimately left Iran for Pakistan, Syria and other countries.
法德赫里现年33岁，美国情报机构跟踪其行踪至少已有十年。据国务院的说法，法德赫里在来叙利亚之前，一直与基地组织的一小群特工一起住在伊朗，他们在9·11恐怖袭击之后从阿富汗逃到那里。伊朗政府曾表示，这个小组已被软禁，但人们对这些基地组织人员的确切情况多年来一直有争议，而且该小组的许多成员最终离开了伊朗，去了巴基斯坦、叙利亚，以及其他国家。
In 2012, the State Department identified Mr. Fadhli as Al Qaeda’s leader in Iran, directing “the movement of funds and operatives” through the country. A $7 million reward was offered for information leading to his capture. The same State Department release said he was working with wealthy “jihadist donors” in Kuwait, his native country, to raise money for Qaeda-allied rebels in Syria.
2012年，国务院曾将法德赫里确认为伊朗基地组织的领导人，在该国家指挥“资金和特工的运转”。为抓获此人，美国政府向提供信息者悬赏5百万美元的奖励。国务院发布的同一消息称，他正在他的出生国科威特，与富裕的“圣战捐助者”一起，为叙利亚境内与基地组织结盟的反政府武装募集资金。
In a speech in Brussels in 2005, President George W. Bush referred to Mr. Fadhli as he thanked European countries for their counterterrorism assistance, noting that Mr. Fadhli had assisted terrorists who bombed a French oil tanker in 2002 off the coast of Yemen. That attack killed one and spilled 50,000 barrels of oil that stretched across 45 miles of coastline.
美国前总统乔治·W·布什2005年在布鲁塞尔发表讲话时，曾提到法德赫里，当时他对欧洲国家为反恐提供帮助表示感谢，并指出法德赫里曾协助恐怖分子在也门沿海炸毁了一艘法国油轮。那次袭击导致1人死亡，还导致5万桶石油泄漏到70多公里的海岸线。
The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, is viewed as more focused on consolidating territory it has amassed in Syria and Iraq than on attacking the West. Some even caution that military strikes against the Islamic State could antagonize that group into planning attacks on Western targets, and even benefit other militant organizations if more moderate factions of the rebellion are not ready to take power on the ground.
伊斯兰国又称ISIS或ISIL，它被认为更侧重于巩固其在叙利亚和伊拉克已获得的领土，而不是攻击西方。有些人甚至警告说，对伊斯兰国进行军事打击可能会激怒该组织，导致其转向策划袭击西方目标，如果反政府武装中较为温和的派别没有准备好在当地夺取政权的话，打击甚至会对其他激进组织有利。
The Islamic State’s recent statements, including a video using a British captive as a spokesman, have sought to deter American action against the group and threatened attacks only as revenge for American strikes.
伊斯兰国最近的声明，包括一个用英国俘虏作代言人的视频，都力求阻止美国对该组织采取行动，并威胁说，只为了报复美国的打击，它才会发动袭击。