SEOUL, South Korea — One of a handful of American soldiers who defected to North Korea during the Cold War died last year after living there for more than half a century, two of his sons said in a video on a pro-North Korea website.
韩国首尔——冷战期间叛逃到朝鲜的一名美国士兵的两个儿子在一个亲朝鲜网站上发布视频，表示他们的父亲已于去年去世。作为少数叛逃到朝鲜的士兵之一，他在那里生活了半个多世纪。
The soldier, James Joseph Dresnok, died in November at 74, according to his sons, Ted Dresnok and James Dresnok Jr. The sons, who were born in the North and are now in their 30s, were interviewed there on Aug. 15 by Roh Kil-nam, a journalist based in the United States, according to Mr. Roh, who uploaded the video to his website on Friday.
这位士兵名叫詹姆斯·约瑟夫·德雷斯诺克(James Joseph Dresnok)，据他的儿子特德·德雷斯诺克(Ted Dresnok)和小詹姆斯·德雷斯诺克(James Dresnok Jr.)称，他于去年11月去世，享年74岁。据美国记者卢吉男（Roh Kil-nam，音）称，德雷斯诺克的两个儿子是在朝鲜出生的，现在30多岁，8月15日在朝鲜接受了卢吉男的采访。周五，卢吉男将采访的视频上传到了自己的网站。
Mr. Dresnok was an American soldier based in South Korea, facing marital troubles and a potential court-martial for forging a pass, when he defected to North Korea in 1962, crossing the heavily armed Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas. He is believed to have been the last American deserter still alive in the North.
1962年，德雷斯诺克穿过朝鲜和韩国之间重兵把守的非军事区，叛逃到朝鲜。当时，他是驻扎在韩国的一名美军士兵，正陷入婚姻困境，还因伪造通行证而可能面临军事法庭的审判。他被认为是朝鲜最后一名在世的美国逃兵。
“I was fed up with my childhood, my marriage, my military life, everything,” Mr. Dresnok told the makers of “Crossing the Line,” a 2006 documentary. “I was finished. There’s only one place to go. I crossed over, looking for my new life.”
“我受够了自己的童年，自己的婚姻，自己的军旅生活，受够了所有这一切，”德雷斯诺克在2006年的纪录片《越过边界》(Crossing the Line)中对制作人们说。“我完了。只有一个地方可去。我越过边界，寻找新生活。”
The few Americans who defected to North Korea were soon deployed for their propaganda value, and Army Private First Class Dresnok, from Richmond, Va., was no exception. He was put on magazine covers, and he glorified North Korean life in messages that were broadcast to American troops across the border.
叛逃到朝鲜的少数几个美国人很快因其宣传价值而得到利用，来自弗吉尼亚州里士满的陆军一等兵德雷斯诺克也不例外。他登上了杂志封面，他对朝鲜生活的溢美之词，通过广播传到了边界另一侧的美国士兵耳中。
Later he starred as an American villain in propaganda films made for a domestic audience and became something of a celebrity. He told the makers of “Crossing the Line” that he would not leave the North “if you put a billion damn dollars of gold on the table.”
后来，他在一部为朝鲜国内观众制作的宣传影片中扮演一名美国恶棍，变得小有名气。他向《越过边界》的制作方表示，“就算你往桌子上放十亿美元的黄金”，他也不会离开朝鲜。
“To his last day, our father had lived a life blessed by the love and benefits from the party,” Ted Dresnok said in the interview uploaded to Minjok Tongshin, Mr. Roh’s website.
“我们的父亲一直生活在党的关爱和优待中，直到生命的最后一天，”特德·德雷斯诺克在发布于卢吉男的网站“民族通讯”(Minjok Tongshin)上的采访中表示。
During the interview, which was conducted in Korean, both sons wore military officers’ uniforms and lavished praise on their country’s totalitarian government. They said their father had died of a stroke, even though the North’s “beloved supreme leader Marshal Kim Jong-un” had ensured that he received the best treatment in a Pyongyang hospital.
他们是在朝鲜接受采访的，两人都穿着军装，大肆赞扬这个国家的极权主义政府。他们称，父亲死于中风，尽管朝鲜“敬爱的最高领袖金正恩将军”确保他在平壤的一家医院接受最好的治疗。
“My father finished his life with no regrets,” said James Dresnok Jr. “If he had any regret, it was that he died early, missing more loving care from the party and the fatherland.”
“父亲临终时没有任何遗憾，”小詹姆斯·德雷斯诺克说。“如果他有什么遗憾的话，那就是，他死得太早了，不能再享受党和祖国的更多关爱。”
Mr. Roh, a South Korean-born American citizen whose website is highly sympathetic to Pyongyang, wrote that the Dresnoks “sounded more North Korean than North Koreans.” He added, “Except that they were white men, there was no difference at all between them and other North Korean soldiers.”
卢吉男是韩国出生的美国公民，他的网站非常支持平壤。他写道，德雷斯诺克兄弟“讲话比朝鲜人还像朝鲜人”。他还说，“除了是白人，他们和其他朝鲜士兵没有任何区别。”
According to a 2014 United Nations report on human rights in the North, the Dresnoks’ mother was Doina Bumbea, a Romanian woman who is believed to have been lured to North Korea in 1978. After Ms. Bumbea died of cancer in 1997, Mr. Dresnok is said to have married another woman and had a third son.
据联合国2014年关于朝鲜人权的一份报告称，德雷斯诺克兄弟的母亲是一位名叫多依娜·本贝亚(Doina Bumbea)的罗马尼亚女性，据信，她是1978年被诱骗至朝鲜的。据称本贝亚于1997年因癌症去世后，德雷斯诺克曾再婚，又生了一个儿子。
The United Nations report said that “women abducted from Europe, the Middle East and Asia were subjected to forced marriages with men from other countries to prevent liaisons on their part with ethnic Korean women that could result in interracial children.”
前述联合国报告称，“从欧洲、中东和亚洲绑架的女性被迫与其他国家的男性结婚，以避免他们与朝鲜女性私通生出混血孩子。”
In 2004, Charles Robert Jenkins, an Army sergeant who defected to North Korea in 1965, was allowed to leave the country with his two daughters and join his wife, a Japanese abductee who had been permitted to leave in 2002. Mr. Jenkins, then 64, was court-martialed by the Army for desertion, demoted to private and given a dishonorable discharge and a 30-day jail sentence. He and his family now live on a small Japanese island.
2004年，1965年叛逃至朝鲜的美军中士查尔斯·罗伯特·詹金斯(Charles Robert Jenkins)获准带着两个女儿离开朝鲜，与妻子重聚。他的妻子是一名被绑架至朝鲜的日本女性，2002年获准离开该国。时年64岁的詹金斯因擅离职守罪接受军事法庭审判，被降级至二等兵，开除军籍并处30天监禁。他和家人现在住在日本的一个小岛上。
In interviews and a book, Mr. Jenkins remembered Mr. Dresnok as a bully who often beat him. Mr. Dresnok strongly denied that in “Crossing the Line.”
詹金斯在多个采访和一本书中回忆称，德雷斯诺克喜欢欺负人，经常打他。德雷斯诺克在《越过边界》中坚决予以否认。
Ted Dresnok said in the interview that he had a son and a daughter, and James Dresnok Jr. said he had a daughter. Like their father, the two brothers have appeared in North Korean films.
在采访中，特德·德雷斯诺克称，他有一个儿子和一个女儿，小詹姆斯·德雷斯诺克称，他有一个女儿。和父亲一样，这兄弟俩也曾出现在朝鲜电影中。
Mr. Roh, who has interviewed the brothers before, has made numerous trips to North Korea, and his full-throated advocacy for its government has earned him the enmity of conservative politicians in South Korea. Presumably, he will be unable to enter the country after Sept. 1, when the Trump administration’s ban on Americans traveling there is scheduled to take effect.
曾多次前往朝鲜的卢吉男之前采访过两兄弟，他对朝鲜政府的热情支持在韩国引起了保守派政治人士的敌意。9月1日之后，特朗普政府将开始执行禁止美国公民前往朝鲜的禁令，卢吉男很可能将无法再进入该国。
In the interview, the Dresnok brothers alluded to the recent rise in tensions between North Korea and the United States, marked by President Trump’s threat to bring “fire and fury” to the North and Pyongyang’s warning that it might fire missiles into the waters around Guam.
德雷斯诺克兄弟在采访中提到，朝鲜和美国近期的关系更加紧张，尤其是特朗普总统威胁将向朝鲜释放“炮火和怒火”，平壤警告称，它可能会向关岛附近水域发射导弹。
“I advise the Americans to think twice,” James Dresnok Jr. said.
“我建议美国三思而后行，”小詹姆斯·德雷斯诺克说。