Charles Robert Jenkins, an Army sergeant who became a Cold War enigma after he defected to North Korea in 1965 and was kept there for nearly 40 years, died on Monday in Japan. He was 77.
曾因1965年叛逃至朝鲜并在那里待了将近40年而成为一个冷战不解之谜的陆军中士查尔斯·罗伯特·詹金斯(Charles Robert Jenkins)，周一在日本去世，终年77岁。
His death was reported by the Kyodo News agency, which said the cause was not yet known.
日本共同社(Kyodo news agency)报道了他的死讯，并称死因尚不得而知。
Mr. Jenkins — who was born in Rich Square, N.C., on Feb. 18, 1940 — was patrolling the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Korea when, drunk after 10 beers, he walked into the North in 1965 to avoid facing combat duty in Vietnam.
詹金斯在1940年2月18日出生于北卡罗来纳州里奇斯奎尔。1965年，为了逃避去越南参战，在朝韩非军事区巡逻的詹金斯喝下10瓶啤酒，在酒醉状态下步行进入朝鲜。
He quickly realized he had made a terrible mistake. He spent years held with other American defectors, forced to read the works of North Korean leaders for hours on end and suffering from hunger and beatings.
他很快便意识到自己犯了个严重的错误。多年来，他一直和其他美国叛逃者关在一起，被迫长时间、不间断地阅读朝鲜领袖们的著作，忍受着饥饿和殴打。
Little was known about Mr. Jenkins’s experiences until he emerged from North Korea in 2004. He was allowed to leave to rejoin his wife, Hitomi Soga, a Japanese woman who had been kidnapped by North Korea. She was allowed to return home to Japan with four other abductees in 2002 after a visit to Pyongyang by the Japanese prime minister at the time, Junichiro Koizumi.
在于2004年离开朝鲜之前，詹金斯的经历几乎无人知晓。他获准离开朝鲜去与他的妻子曾我瞳(Hitomi Soga)——一名被朝鲜绑架的日本女性——团聚。2002年，在日本时任首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)访问平壤后，曾我瞳和其他4名被绑架者得以返回日本。
During his 2004 military trial for desertion, held in Japan, Mr. Jenkins testified that he was taken to a hospital in North Korea where, without anesthesia, a doctor sliced off skin with the tattooed words “U.S. Army” from his forearm.
对其叛逃的军事审判于2004年在日本举行，詹金斯证实，他曾被带到朝鲜的一家医院，在没有麻醉的情况下，由一名医生割掉了他前臂上纹着“美国陆军”字样的那块皮肤。
He said he was warned that any criticism of North Korea’s ruling Kim family would have led to his death. He testified at his trial that his captors threatened, “Go dig your own hole, because you are gone,” adding, “I have seen that done.”
他说，曾有人警告自己，任何对统治朝鲜的金氏家族的批评都可能使他丧命。他在庭审中证实，俘虏他的人曾威胁说，“挖好你自己的坟墓吧，因为你要死了，”还说，“我见过这么做的。”
He wrote later that he believed his life was somewhat better than those of most North Koreans. He taught English to North Korean military cadets, appeared in propaganda leaflets and films, and said that his role as a war trophy for the North saved him from the worst abuses.
他后来写道，他认为他的生活比大多数朝鲜人的生活更好。他给朝鲜军校学生教英语，出现在政治宣传单和电影中，他还表示，朝鲜战利品的角色使他免遭最坏的虐待。
In 1972 he and three other American defectors were given North Korean citizenship, and their lives improved somewhat. In 1980 he met Ms. Soga, who had been kidnapped by North Korean agents as part of an effort to teach Japanese language and culture to spies. The two married soon after.
1972年，他与其他三名美国叛逃者一同获得了朝鲜国籍，生活也有了些改善。1980年，他认识了被朝鲜特工绑架的曾我瞳，她被绑架来给朝鲜间谍教授日语和日本文化。之后，两人很快便结婚了。
They lived together in a Pyongyang home that went unheated through most of the winter, raising their own vegetables and chickens to compensate for a collapsing food rationing system. They had two daughters, born in North Korea, who were able to leave with Mr. Jenkins in 2004.
他们一起在平壤生活，冬季大多时候家中都没有供暖。他们自己种菜、养鸡，以弥补濒临崩溃的食物配给制度。他们养育了两个女儿，都生于朝鲜，在2004年均获准与詹金斯一同离开朝鲜。
In Japan, public sentiment was largely behind Mr. Jenkins because of the suffering of his wife and other Japanese abductees.
在日本，由于他的妻子和其他被绑架的日本人受的苦难，公众情绪大多支持詹金斯。
After arriving there, Mr. Jenkins faced a court-martial, where he pleaded guilty to desertion and aiding the enemy. He was demoted to private, stripped of back pay and benefits and given a 30-day jail sentence along with a dishonorable discharge.
抵达日本后，詹金斯要面对军事法庭的审判，在审判中，他承认自己因叛逃以及通敌有罪。他被降为二等兵，取消补发薪资和福利，并得到入狱30天和开除军籍处分。
“I was released five days early, for good behavior,” he wrote.
“我提前五天被释放了，因为表现良好，”他写道。
After his release, Mr. Jenkins and his wife lived on Sado Island, off the west coast of Honshu, where she grew up and was abducted in 1978. He worked as a greeter at a tourist attraction, posing for photos with visitors who greeted him as “Jenkins-San!” The Los Angeles Times reported in a profile last August.
在释放后，詹金斯和妻子在日本本州岛西海岸外的佐渡岛生活，他的妻子在此长大并于1978年在此被绑架。他在一处旅游景点做迎宾员，与游客们摆造型拍照，他们叫他“詹金斯桑！”《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)在今年8月的一篇人物特写中报道。
The article said his daughter Mika lived at home and taught in a kindergarten, while his other daughter, Brinda, lived in the nearby city of Niigata.
文章称，他的女儿米卡(Mika)住在家里，在一个幼儿园教书，他的另一个女儿布林达(Brinda)住在临近的新潟县。
“I’d like to go back to the U.S., but my wife don’t want to go, and I have no means to support her there,” Mr. Jenkins told the newspaper. “So I figure, might as well stay where I’m at.”
“我想回美国，但我的妻子不想去，并且我在那也没法养活她，”詹金斯告诉《洛杉矶时报》。“所以我想，还不如留在这个地方。”