For many years, smoking and drinking were considered the dominant risk factors for cancers of the throat. But on Monday, The Guardian, a British newspaper, reported that the actor Michael Douglas believed that his throat cancer was caused by an infection acquired during oral sex, highlighting a trend that has alarmed many scientists.
多年来，人们认为吸烟和饮酒是导致喉癌的主要危险因素。但是，周一，英国报纸《卫报》(The Guardian)报道，演员迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)认为自己的喉癌是因为口交时受到感染而引起的，这突显出了一个让很多科学家感到震惊的趋势。
Mr. Douglas, 68, had previously speculated that years of smoking and drinking played a role in his disease, and his spokesman later said that although the actor had discussed oral sex’s link to cancer, he did not say it was the cause of his own cancer. But The Guardian quoted Mr. Douglas as saying, “Without wanting to get too specific, this particular cancer is caused by HPV, which actually comes from cunnilingus.”
68岁的道格拉斯之前曾推测，多年的吸烟和饮酒和他的疾病有关。他的发言人后来表示，虽然道格拉斯提到口交与癌症有关，但他并没有说自己的喉癌是由此引起的。然而，《卫报》援引道格拉斯的话说，“我不想多谈细节，这种癌症是由人乳头瘤病毒（human papillomavirus，缩写HPV）引起的，而它实际上源自为女性口交。”
Indeed, in recent years scientists have documented a steep rise in throat cancers caused by a strain of HPV that can be transmitted through oral sex. The virus, human papillomavirus Type 16, also causes many cases of cervical cancer in women.
的确，近年来，科学家发现由一种HPV病毒株所引发的喉癌数量急剧增加，而这种病毒株可以通过口交传播。这种被称作HPV16型的病毒也是导致很多女性得宫颈癌的原因。
In the 1980s, only a small number of throat cancers were linked to HPV infection. Historically, patients who developed the disease were in their 70s and were heavy smokers and drinkers.
20世纪80年代，只有少数喉癌病例与HPV感染有关。过去，得这种病的患者都是70多岁的老人，而且他们都大量吸烟或酗酒。
Now, about 70 percent of all throat cancers are caused by HPV, up from roughly 15 percent three decades ago. Patients are now more frequently middle-aged husbands and fathers who are economically well off, nonsmokers and not particularly heavy drinkers. Men are three times more likely to be diagnosed than women with HPV-related throat cancer.
如今，所有喉癌病例中大约有70%都是由HPV引起的，而30年前，这个数据大概是15%。现在的病人往往是已经身为人夫或人父的中年男子，经济条件较好，不吸烟也不酗酒。男性被确诊罹患HPV相关喉癌的几率要比女性高三倍。
There are many strains of HPV, and the virus is so common that at some point most sexually active adults are exposed to it. A majority of people fight off the infection and do not develop symptoms. But in a very small number of people chronic infection causes oropharyngeal cancers near the base of the tongue and the area just behind the mouth.
HPV的菌株有很多种，而且这种病毒十分常见，多数性活跃的成人早晚都会接触到它。多数人都能抵抗它的感染，不出现任何症状。但是，在极少数人身上，慢性感染会在舌根附近以及口腔后面的区域引发口咽癌。
Throat cancers caused by HPV are easier to treat than those caused by tobacco, doctors say. Rates of these cancers are increasing but are still fairly uncommon, striking about 3 in 100,000 people. Studies have not proved that vaccines against HPV prevent throat cancers, but many doctors believe they will.
医生说，由HPV引起的喉癌比抽烟所引起的喉癌更容易治疗。虽然这些癌症的发生率正在增加，但它仍然较少见，10万人中大概有3人会得这种病。研究尚未证明针对HPV的疫苗能够预防喉癌，但很多医生都对此坚信不疑。
The cancers typically occur decades after initial infection with HPV, and the diagnosis can raise delicate questions for spouses who wonder how partners were infected and worry that they, too, may contract the virus.
癌症的出现通常是在首次感染HPV的几十年后，而且这种疾病的诊断也可能会针对患者的伴侣提出一些敏感的问题，他们会去考虑，自己的伴侣是如何感染的，而且还担心自己也会感染这种病毒。
“It is a sexually transmitted virus, so that by itself obviously creates uncomfortable discussions between my patients and their partners,” said Dr. Robert I. Haddad, the disease center leader of the head and neck oncology program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
“这是一种通过性来传播的病毒，所以这种疾病本身显然就会让我的病人与伴侣之间的讨论很尴尬，”罗伯特·I·哈达德(Robert I. Haddad)博士说。他在波士顿丹娜-法伯癌症研究所(Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)的头部和颈部肿瘤学项目担任疾病中心负责人。
In 2009, Tony Simotes, 62, learned that he had a tumor in his throat, which was diagnosed as Stage 3 oropharyngeal cancer. Mr. Simotes had never been a smoker or a drinker. He and his wife, Lucy, were relieved at first to learn the cancer was HPV-related, because that raised the odds that he could be cured.
2009年，62岁的托尼·西莫特斯(Tony Simotes)得知在他的喉咙内有一个肿瘤，被诊断为口咽喉癌三期。西莫特斯既不抽烟也不喝酒。他和妻子露西(Lucy)在得知癌症与HPV有关时首先感到轻松了些，因为这提高了他可能被治愈的几率。
“But then I started going through all the motions of what does that mean for me, too?” said Ms. Simotes, 50. “Because this cancer came from a virus, and I may or may not have it.”
“但随后我的心开始忐忑不安，心想这是否对我也意味着什么呢？”50岁的露西说，“因为这种癌症来自于一种病毒，我说不定也携带了它。”
She said she had a Pap test that came back negative.
她说自己进行了一次巴氏试验，结果呈阴性。
Because both partners had been previously married, they were comfortable discussing the cancer and its cause, said Mr. Simotes, the artistic director and president of Shakespeare & Company in Lenox, Mass. “We know that we’ve lived pretty full lives until we met each other,” he said. “The reality is that a lot of times people carry the virus and it doesn’t affect them.”
马萨诸塞州莱诺克斯的莎士比亚剧团(Shakespeare & Company)艺术总监和总裁西莫特斯说，因为夫妻双方之前都曾结过婚，所以他们并不忌讳谈论癌症及其原因。“我们知道在我们见面之前都曾经历过丰富的生活，”他说，“现实情况就是有很多人携带病毒但没有受其影响。”
Mr. Simotes underwent chemotherapy and radiation, and his cancer is in remission.
西莫特斯接受了化疗和放疗，他的癌症现在处于缓解期。
In a study presented last weekend at a conference of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, Dr. Haddad and other researchers showed for the first time that the partners of people with throat cancers caused by HPV were not at greater risk of developing oral HPV infections themselves. The study involved more than 200 people followed for about a year.
上周末，在美国临床肿瘤学会(American Society of Clinical Oncology)的一次会议上展示的一项研究中，哈达德博士和其他研究者首次证明，患有HPV导致的喉癌者的性伴侣，其口腔感染HPV的几率并不比一般人高。这项研究对200多人进行了约1年的跟踪检查。
Dr. Haddad said the findings suggest that spouses and longtime partners do not need to take special precautions or change their sexual behavior.
哈达德博士称，研究结果表明，配偶和长期性伴侣无需采取特殊的防护措施或改变其性行为。