First a printing press, then real estate developers, now a welding-machine factory. Everyone has taken a piece of Nianhua Si, or Picking Flowers Temple, a Ming dynasty place of worship in the storied Drum Tower district of Beijing.
先是一个印刷厂，然后是几家房地产开发商，现在又来了一家焊接机械厂。人人都想要在拈花寺占据一隅。拈花寺位于北京的鼓楼街区，是明朝时期的宗教场所。
Today, underwear hangs to dry between peeling oxblood-red columns and weathered stone slabs poke unevenly from courtyards of pounded earth. Vermilion walls tower over narrow lanes, grass grows on gray-tiled roofs and plywood boards mask delicate stone friezes. Everywhere, beauty blends with the profane, the charmingly ruined and the merely garbage-strewn.
如今，拈花寺柱子上的棕红漆已经开始剥落，柱子间的绳子上晾着内衣，院子里的夯土地上，饱经风霜的石板已不再平坦。朱砂色的高墙仍然夹着狭窄的小径，房顶上的灰色瓦片间却已长出杂草，胶合板下盖着的是精美的石头壁缘。拈花寺的美丽混杂了人间烟火、残破之美，甚至还有遍地垃圾。
Yet the real threat to the temple — dozens of historically and religiously significant buildings begun in 1581, the ninth year of the reign of the Wanli Emperor, and given its present name in 1734 during the Qing dynasty — isn’t decay, say residents and conservationists. It’s redevelopment.
然而，一些居民和建筑保护人士说，拈花寺面临的真正威胁不是年久失修，而是开发重建。拈花寺由数十座历史悠久的宗教建筑组成，始建于万历九年（1581年），在清朝时期，即1734年，开始使用“拈花寺”这个名字。
After the Communist revolution of 1949, Nianhua Si lost its religious status, as did many other temples. Its main hall was knocked down and a boxy factory built for a printing press for the new People’s University. Workers moved in.
1949年建国之后，拈花寺以及其他许多寺庙都失去了宗教功能。拈花寺的主殿被拆毁，新的中国人民大学的印刷厂在这里建起了方方正正的厂房。此后，工人们进入了拈花寺。
Now, with market-oriented economic changes in their fourth decade and religion making a comeback, the dangers are greed and bad taste, conservationists say. Razing traditional wood-and-stone structures and substituting concrete simulacra has already blighted other historic districts of Beijing, such as Qianmen, south of Tiananmen Square, they say.That imperils the very future of Chinese creativity by robbing it of its historical roots, said the Belgian artist Jehanne de Biolley, who has lived in part of the temple for 13 years with her Chinese partner, the actor Liu Harrison Linian, and their two children.
建筑保护人士说，如今，随着中国的市场经济改革进入第四个10年，宗教活动正在复兴。而拈花寺面临的威胁，源于人们的贪婪和糟糕的品味。他们说，北京其他历史悠久的街区的木石结构的传统建筑纷纷被拆除，取而代之的是水泥结构的低劣仿品，比如天安门广场南侧的前门大街。比利时艺术家翠翠(Jehanne de Biolley)说，这让中国的创造力失去了历史根基，将危及其未来。翠翠和她的中国伴侣、演员刘利年，以及他们的两个孩子已经在拈花寺里住了13年。
“In 500 years, if someone arrives here from the moon, how will they know China had 5,000 years of culture? Where will they see it? It’s all just concrete,” Ms. de Biolley said, gesturing at the road outside. The government plans to raze, then raise again, much of the Drum Tower area, constructing plazas where there were none and erecting traditional-style gray brick houses.
翠翠指着屋外的马路说，“500年后，如果有人从月球来到这里，他们怎么会知道中国有5000年文化？哪里能看得出来？到处都只有水泥。”政府打算拆除和重建鼓楼街区的大部分区域，建造这个街区的第一个购物中心，然后再建起传统风格的灰砖房子。
Together with Mr. Liu and a devoted band of conservationists and some ordinary residents, Ms. de Biolley wants to save the authentic substance of Nianhua Si, to “celebrate” it, as she says, for culture, for memory, for the next generation. She is organizing art exhibitions and seminars on conservation, spreading the word.
翠翠想要和刘利年、数位建筑保护人士以及一些普通居民一道，留住拈花寺中最原汁原味的东西，就像她说的，目的是“推崇”它，为了文化，为了记忆，为了下一代。她正在组织有关建筑保护的艺术展览和研讨会，让更多人了解这件事。
“It’s the magic of the place,” Ms. de Biolley said. “The beauty. The aesthetics. Once it’s put into concrete everything will change. The proportions will change. The echo. The history. The huge wooden beams, who brought them here? How did they get here? This all can trigger reflection and inspiration.’’
翠翠说，“最重要的是这个地方的魔力，它的美，美学价值。一旦用水泥重建，一切都会改变，如建筑的比例、回声、历史，以及巨大的木梁。谁把它们带到这里？它们是怎么到这来的？这都能发人深省，触动灵感。”
She added: “The fundamental issue is how to trigger in the art and design community a connection to Chinese culture, a really deep thinking process, to trigger creativity.”
她补充说：“根本问题是，如何在艺术设计领域中，触发与中国文化的关联、一次真正深度思考的过程，以及如何激发创造力。”
Hundreds of residents, including the Liu-de Biolleys, must go by the end of December, and the temple rebuilt to prevent fire or collapse, the Beijing Cultural Relics Bureau says.
北京文物保护局称，为了防止火灾和倒塌，寺庙将被重建，因而拈花寺的数百名居民，包括翠翠和刘利年，必须在12月底之前搬出去。
“The danger is in the rebuilding,” said Hu Xinyu, an adviser to the Beijing Cultural Heritage Protection Center, an organization that has led efforts to protect the city’s historic fabric. “It may be that they want to do everything up new.”
北京文化遗产保护中心的顾问胡新宇说，“重建是危险的。也许，他们希望把一切都变成新的。”该组织一直引领着保护北京历史建筑的行动。
Nianhua Si, in Dashiqiao Hutong, or Big Stone Bridge Alley, is a temple where, in the pre-Communist era, families often brought the bodies of their relatives for monks to pray over before being taken for burial outside the city. It is as important as the nearby, far better known, Lama Temple, said Mr. Hu. “It should be a national-level treasure.”
在49年以前，人们常常把逝去亲人的遗体送到位于大石桥胡同的拈花寺来超度，然后再送到城外埋葬。胡新宇说，“这里和附近的雍和宫同样重要。而后者的名气则要大得多。拈花寺也应该是国家级的保护建筑。”
It now stands under the protection of the city’s Cultural Relics Bureau, though its use has been handed over to the Buddhist Association. As with so many historic sites on valuable land, ownership is murky. Historians believe that Beijing once had about 1,200 temples. Today, dozens remain, but few serve a religious function. More broadly, only a fraction of the old hutongs, or alleyways with traditional courtyards, are intact, the victims of economic growth and under-the-table deals between the government and developers.
拈花寺现在受到北京市文物保护局的保护，但使用权归北京市佛教协会。就像位于寸土寸金地段的许多历史建筑一样，它的所有权模糊不清。历史学家认为，北京曾经有大约1200座寺庙。现在只剩下几十座了，而且几乎都失去了宗教功能。除此之外，只有少数老胡同或四合院被完整保留。寺院和胡同成了经济增长，以及政府和开发商之间的秘密交易的牺牲品。
“After 1949, old houses and temples were basically not maintained at all,” said Mr. Hu. “What was done was cheap and practical. There wasn’t the slightest sense of doing things in the traditional way. That was considered feudal and superstitious.” He compared the temple to a person: “If you don’t wash your face for a day or two, that’s O.K. But if you don’t wash for years, you’re a wild man. Nianhua Si is like that.”
胡新宇说，“1949年以后，老房子和寺庙基本上没有受到维护。人们那时做事只讲究节约成本和实际效果。用传统方式做事的意识荡然无存，那被认为是封建迷信。他把寺庙和人做了比较：“如果你一两天不洗脸，没事。但是你好几年不洗，你就是野人了。拈花寺就是这样。
Renovations are undertaken with little regard to authenticity, said Mr. Liu, a burly man from the northeastern province of Heilongjiang. ‘‘Most siheyuan,’’ or courtyard homes, in Beijing these days “are fakes,” he said. Wealthy residents “tear them down and build again with swimming pools, underground garages, dens. I wish that here they’d preserve the artistic value and not just chase the money.
身材魁梧的刘利年来自中国东北的黑龙江省。他说，现在进行翻新时，丝毫不考虑原汁原味。他说，目前大多数“四合院”都是“假的”。有钱的住户把房子拆了重新盖，修游泳池、地下车库，以及私密的居室。我希望他们可以保留房子的艺术价值，不光是追逐金钱。
“Chinese people don’t respect real culture. It’s all about business and financial profit. It’s ridiculous, and it’s the cultural tragedy of China,” said Mr. Liu, sporting a long beard for his next role as a 1920s warlord. “The West isn’t perfect, but they do protect history.”
刘利年说，“中国人不尊重真正的文化。一切都以生意和经济利益为重，这太愚蠢了。这是中国文化的悲剧。”刘利年正为扮演上世纪20年代的军阀而蓄着很长的胡子。他说，“西方也不完美，但是他们保护历史。”
Ms. de Biolley cited as an example of restoration the Neues Museum in Berlin, where the British architect David Chipperfield integrated the war-damaged remains of the original Neoclassical building by Friedrich August Stüler into a coherent whole.
翠翠提到了柏林新博物馆(Neues Museum)的例子。在它的修复过程中，英国建筑师大卫·奇普菲尔德(David Chipperfield)把原来由弗里德里希·奥古斯特·施蒂勒(Friedrich August Stüler)设计的一栋新古典主义建筑的战后遗址整合进了一个协调的整体里。
Nianhua Si has that potential, but it could lose everything, Mr. Liu and Ms. de Biolley said. “I wish they would do it more seriously,” he said.
刘利年和翠翠说，拈花寺存在这种可能性，但也可能失去一切。刘利年说，“我希望他们以更严肃的态度做这件事。”
Although the Buddhist Association confirmed by telephone that it was taking over the management of the temple, it declined to comment on its plans. “We are not open to the outside world,” said a person who answered the telephone but would not give her name, referring queries to the Beijing Religious Affairs Bureau.
虽然佛教协会通过电话确认，该协会将接管拈花寺，但他们拒绝就其计划发表评论。接听电话的人不愿透露姓名，她表示，“我们不对外开放，”并将问题抛给了北京市宗教事务局。
A person answering the telephone at the city’s Cultural Relics Bureau, who declined to give his name, said, “We’ve been talking about Nianhua Si for more than 10 years, and, honestly, I can’t answer your questions about what the plans are because there are too many government departments involved. State Cultural Relics Bureau. Beijing Cultural Relics Bureau. Beijing Development and Reform Commission. Buddhist Association. More. But in principle, the Buddhist Association is not allowed to knock anything down.”
北京市文物局接听电话的人也拒绝透露姓名，他表示，“十多年来，我们一直在讨论拈花寺的问题，老实说，我无法回答你有关重建计划的问题，因为涉及太多政府部门。国家文物局、北京市文物局、北京市发展和改革委员会、佛教协会等等。但原则上，佛教协会不准拆除任何建筑。”
The damage to the complex is already severe. Some years ago a faux-baroque apartment complex appeared in the northeastern corner. About six months ago the Beijing Welding-Machine Factory knocked down an original hall north of Ms. de Biolley’s and Mr. Liu’s art gallery, in the temple’s old library to erect a concrete building. Steel beams dug into the fragile wood of the library eaves.In October, Ms. de Biolley and Mr. Liu invited the British artist Celia Lyttelton to draw the temple to record its faded beauty for posterity. “I also feel pretty sad and angry that they’re all being evicted, to be replaced by what?” Ms. Lyttelton said. “A sort of theme park? It just throws up whole questions of heritage.”
拈花寺已经严重受损。几年前，东北角出现了一座仿巴洛克式的公寓大楼。大约六个月前，北京焊机厂拆除了位于翠翠和刘利年的画廊北部的一个古老大殿，建造了一个混凝土建筑。二人的画廊设在拈花寺的藏经阁里，钢梁已经钻入了那里的屋檐上易碎的木头里。今年10月，翠翠和刘利年邀请英国艺术家西莉亚·利特尔顿(Celia Lyttelton)为拈花寺作画，为后人记录它逐渐消逝的美丽。“他们都要被赶走了，我也感到非常伤心和愤怒，要用什么来取代这一切呢？”利特尔顿说。“某种主题公园？这突显了文化遗产的所有相关问题。”
Mr. Hu said: “People care, but far too few. I don’t think Beijing has lost its soul, but it’s not as easy to find as before. The patient is breathing, but heavily.”
胡新宇表示，“有人关心，但还是太少了。我觉得北京还没有丧失灵魂，但不像以前那么容易就能找到。病人还在呼吸，但非常吃力。”