MIAMI — It did not matter that it was the middle of the night, or that it began to drizzle. When this city’s Cuban-American residents heard the news, they sprinted to Little Havana. They banged pots and pans. They sang the Cuban national anthem and waved the Cuban flag. They danced and hugged, laughed and cried, shouted and rejoiced.
迈阿密――虽然已经是半夜，但是没有关系，细雨开始落下，这也无妨。当这个城市的古巴裔美国居民听到消息时，他们冲向小哈瓦那，敲着锅碗瓢盆，高唱起古巴国歌，挥舞着古巴国旗。他们跳舞、拥抱、大笑、哭泣、叫喊，一片欢腾。
The seemingly eternal vigil for the death of Fidel Castro, a man who had profoundly changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people here — dividing their families, taking their property, imprisoning and sometimes shooting their friends and relatives, wrenching them from their homes and their country — was over. Finally.
对菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)死讯的欢庆仿佛会无休无止，不过这一切终于结束了。这个人深深地改变了这里成千上万人的生活――他撕碎他们的家庭，夺走他们的财产，监禁乃至枪杀他们的朋友和亲戚，逼得他们背井离乡。 
“I owe this to my dad — this going out and celebrating,” said Isabel De Lara, 67, a former banker who came to Calle Ocho — Eighth Street — to join in the jubilation. She wished her father, who is dead, could have joined her.
“这些庆祝活动是我欠爸爸的，”67岁的前银行从业者伊莎贝尔·德拉拉(Isabel De Lara)说，她来到Calle Ocho――即第八街――加入了欢腾的人群。她希望去世的父亲可以加入自己的行列。
More than five decades had passed since Ms. De Lara stepped off a plane alone, from Cuba, sent here at age 12 by parents who feared for her future after the Castro revolution. For her and so many others, Mr. Castro’s death was a watershed, for he embodied the revolution and the heartbreak that followed.
自从德拉拉独自登上从古巴来到这里的飞机，时光已经过去了50多年，她12岁那年被父母送到这里，在卡斯特罗革命之后，他们担忧她的未来。对于她和其他许多人来说，卡斯特罗的死是一个分水岭，因为他象征着革命、以及随之而来的心碎。
“Him dying represents the end of something awful that happened to us,” she said. “It’s actually him — not anybody else — who caused this. It’s because of him that we lost our opportunity to have a life in our country.”
“他的死代表着发生在我们身上的一件可怕的事情终于结束了，”她说。“正是他――不是其他任何人――造成了这个局面。正是因为他，我们失去了在自己的祖国生活的机会。”
Waves of other Cubans also came, transforming not just their own lives but the city itself, gradually turning it into the unofficial bilingual capital of Latin America. With the goal of ousting Mr. Castro and establishing democracy in Cuba, early exiles built a degree of political and economic clout that outstripped their relatively small numbers.
一波又一波的古巴人涌进这座城市，他们不仅改变了自己的生活，也改变了这个城市，逐渐将它变成了拉丁美洲的非官方双语首都。为了推翻卡斯特罗并在古巴建立民主，早期流亡者奠定了一定程度的政治和经济势力，其影响力超越了他们相对较少的人数。
Focusing first on local politics and business in the 1970s and 1980s, the exiles and their children, led by the powerful Cuban American National Foundation, catapulted into national politics and influence. They gained the power to tilt presidential elections toward Republicans and sway American foreign policy against appeasement with Mr. Castro.
在1970年代和1980年代，流亡者及其子女们由强大的美籍古巴人国家基金会(Cuban American National Foundation)引领，首先关注本地的政治与商业，进而一举跃入全国政坛，获得了全国性的影响力。他们的权力可令总统选举向共和党倾斜；可以影响美国的外交政策，令美国不向卡斯特罗绥靖。
“It was important to take the struggle outside of Eighth Street to Washington,” said Jorge Mas Santos, the son of Jorge Mas Canosa, the man who spearheaded the foundation and was seen as the leader of Miami’s exile community.
“让斗争走出第八街，来到华盛顿，这是很重要的，”豪尔赫·马斯·卡诺萨(Jorge Mas Canosa)的儿子豪尔赫·马斯·桑托斯(Jorge Mas Santos)说，豪尔赫·马斯·卡诺萨是这个基金会的领导人，也被视为迈阿密流亡社区的领袖。
That influence remains. The American trade embargo on Cuba is still in force, requiring the vote of a Congress that is reluctant to remove it. And this year’s presidential campaign saw two Americans of Cuban descent — Senators Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz — run for the office.
这种影响力仍然存在。美国对古巴的贸易禁运仍然生效，需要国会投票才能取消，而国会并不愿意取消它。今年的总统竞选中有两位古巴裔美国人竞选总统，他们分别是参议员马可·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)和特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)。
But in the last decade, the pro-embargo, hard-line grip on the minds and votes of people in Miami and elsewhere has weakened, creating divisions among Cuban-Americans over how deeply to engage with Cuba and its people.
支持禁运的强硬立场多年来控制着迈阿密及各地古巴裔美国人的想法和选票，但在过去十年中，这样的控制已经削弱；与古巴及其民众的交往究竟应当发展到多深的程度，古巴裔美国人对此产生了分歧。
With Mr. Castro’s death, some hard-liners are pushing for retrenchment and hope that President-elect Donald J. Trump will crack down now that the government has lost its father figure. Others say that this is the time to flood the zone with more people, ideas and goods. Cuba’s president, Raúl Castro, has opened the window slightly to economic reform, travel and American influence. Now that his older brother is gone, they argue, he will be freer to make changes.
卡斯特罗死后，一些强硬派正在推动双边关系的收紧，并希望候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)打击这个失去了主心骨的政府。其他人则说，如今正是以更多的人、更多想法和货品淹没这个国家的好时机。古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)为经济改革、旅游与美国的影响稍微打开了门户。现在他的兄长去世了，这一派人认为，他将更加自由地作出改变。
But the oldest and most vehement exiles — the historicos, as they are called — are dying off in large numbers. Their children, while still passionately opposed to Mr. Castro, are open to closer ties with the Cuban people as a way of stoking change. (Even Mr. Mas Santos is part of this group.) And their grandchildren know far less about Cuba and Mr. Castro; many are more intrigued than outraged. At the same time, recent arrivals, while deeply disenchanted with the Cuban government, want to see and help their relatives on the island, above all else.
但是最年长和情绪最激烈的流亡者们――他们被称为“历史人物”(historicos)――逐渐作古，人数正在急剧下降。他们的子女虽然仍然激烈反对卡斯特罗，但是对于同古巴民众发展更密切的关系、以此作为煽动改变的方式抱有开放的态度（就连马斯·桑托斯也是这个群体的成员）。他们的孙辈对古巴和卡斯特罗知之甚少，很多人都对卡斯特罗感到好奇而不是愤怒。与此同时，近些年来到这里的古巴人虽然对古巴政府深感幻灭，但最主要的还是希望能够看望和帮助他们在那个岛国的亲人。
Those shifts in attitude have been translated in Washington. Two years ago, President Obama surprised Cuban-Americans by announcing a series of changes. He re-established diplomatic ties and made it easier for Americans to visit and send money and goods, and also for American businesses to establish a foothold.
这些态度的转变在华盛顿得到了体现。两年前，奥巴马总统宣布了一系列变化，令古巴裔美国人大为惊讶。他重新建立了外交纽带，令美国人可以更容易地访问古巴、向那里汇款和寄送货物，这也可以帮助美国企业更好地在那里立足。
“We have moved from a politics of passion to a politics of realism,” said Andy Gomez, a political analyst who was a senior fellow in Cuban studies at the University of Miami. “We are going to be passionate for the next 72 hours. But the realism is that the transition has to come within the island. The leadership has to come from within the island. I don’t think anyone in South Florida thinks they will be president of Cuba, and if they do they are fools.”
“我们已经从激情政治转向现实政治，”迈阿密大学古巴问题资深研究员、政治分析人安迪·戈麦斯(Andy Gomez)说，“接下来的72小时里，我们会充满激情。但现实是，过渡必须在岛内发生。古巴的领导人必须来自岛内。我不认为南佛罗里达州会有任何人觉得自己能当上古巴总统，如果他们这么想，那他们就是傻瓜。”
On Saturday, for so many exiles, it finally became easier to look forward and not back. Fidel Castro, even in his old age, remained the symbol of the revolution. Raúl Castro ruled, but always in his older brother’s shadow, exiles said.
对于很多流亡者们来说，从周六开始，不回头地向前看终于变得容易一点了。菲德尔·卡斯特罗虽然后来年事已高，但依然是革命的象征。流亡者们说，劳尔·卡斯特罗统治着古巴，但一直都处在其兄长的阴影之下。
Without Fidel Castro, Cuba can exhale. Even though change may not come quickly, there is a strong possibility it will come.
没有了菲德尔·卡斯特罗，古巴可以长出一口气了。就算改变可能来得没那么迅速，也是有了极大的可能性。
“This is the beginning of the end,” Mr. Lasa said.
“这是终结的开始，”退休的银行从业者路易斯·拉萨(Luis Lasa)说。