There was a time, Alexi remembers, when life in Cuba was simpler. People dressed properly. Children respected their elders. Stealing was stealing.
亚力克西(Alexi)记得，曾有这样一段时间，古巴人的生活比较简单。人们穿着得体，孩子尊敬长者，偷窃就是偷窃。
“My father brought me up with a strict set of values,” said Alexi, 46, an unemployed chauffeur from a gritty quarter of the capital. “But that has been lost.”
“从小，父亲就给我灌输严格的道德观念，”46岁的亚力克西说。“但这些道德观念现在已经丧失。”这名失业的司机来自首都的一个条件艰苦的城区。
So Alexi had little to argue with this month when President Raúl Castro unleashed his fiercest and lengthiest public lecture to date on the demise of Cuban culture and conduct. In a speech to the National Assembly, Mr. Castro said that Cubans’ behavior — from urinating in the street and raising pigs in cities to taking bribes — had led him to conclude that, despite five decades of universal education, the island had “regressed in culture and civility.”
因此，当劳尔·卡斯特罗主席(Raúl Castro)在本月发表了迄今为止最激烈、最冗长的公开演讲，讲述古巴文化和品行的沦丧，亚力克西没有什么可争辩的。卡斯特罗在对国民议会发表演讲时表示，古巴人的行为——从在街道小便、在城市里养猪到受贿——致使他得出一个结论，尽管在过去50年中实行普及教育政策，但这个岛屿的“文化和文明程度都已出现倒退”。
Cubans build houses without permits, catch endangered fish, cut down trees, gamble, accept bribes and favors, hoard goods and sell them at inflated prices, and harass tourists, Mr. Castro said.
卡斯特罗表示，古巴人在没有获得许可的情况下建造房屋；捕捞濒危鱼类；砍伐树木；赌博；接受贿赂和小恩小惠；囤积居奇；骚扰游客。
And that is just the start: Islanders yell in the street, curse indiscriminately, disturb their neighbors’ sleep with loud music, drink alcohol in public, vandalize telephones, dodge bus fares and throw stones at passing trains, the president lamented.
不仅如此，卡斯特罗抱怨称，岛民在街道上喊叫；任意咒骂；大声播放音乐，打扰邻居休息；在公开场合饮酒；肆意毁坏公共电话；坐公交时逃票；扔石头砸过往的火车。
“They ignore the most basic standards of gentility and respect,” Mr. Castro continued. “All this is going on under our noses, without provoking any objection or challenge from other citizens.”
“他们忽略了教养与尊重的最基本标准，”卡斯特罗继续说道。“这些行为就在我们眼前持续发生，没有引起其他公民的反对或者质疑。”
“I have the bitter sensation that we are a society that is ever better educated, but not necessarily more enlightened,” Mr. Castro said.
卡斯特罗说，“我痛苦地认识到，我们是一个受到良好教育的社会，但未必是一个更加文明的社会。”
His scathing assessment resonated with many Cubans, who bemoan the rise in petty corruption and uncouth behavior, nostalgic for the days when a state salary was enough to live on without needing to pilfer, and Cuba’s education system garnered international praise.
卡斯特罗的严厉批评在很多古巴人中引起共鸣，他们哀叹轻微腐败及不雅行为的增多，怀念以前的日子，那时候国家发放的工资足以维持生活，而不用去小偷小摸，古巴的教育体制曾获得国际社会的赞誉。
But while Mr. Castro rebuked his countrymen for losing their “honesty, decency, sense of shame, decorum, honor and sensitivity to others’ problems,” many Cubans accused the government of clinging to an unworkable economic system while the country’s infrastructure and social services crumbled and, with them, the people’s sense of communal duty.
但当卡斯特罗指责他的国民丧失“诚实品质、礼仪、羞耻感、礼节、正义感及对他人的问题的关心”时，很多古巴人谴责政府，在国家基础设施损毁瓦解，社会服务崩溃，并由此引发民众的公共责任感丧失的情况下，仍然坚守一个不切实际的经济体制。
“He should have taken responsibility,” said Alexi, who asked that his full name not be used because he was discussing the Cuban leadership.
亚力克西表示，“他应该承担责任。”鉴于自己在谈论古巴的领导层，亚力克西不愿公开全名。
Cubans’ morals had been broken, he said, by the “special period” of severe economic hardship that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union, when many people resorted to stealing, scams and, in some cases, prostitution to get by. Standing shirtless outside his small house, Alexi pointed to his 24-year-old son, fixing a hubcap on the sidewalk.
他说，苏联解体后，出现了遭遇严重经济困难的“特殊时期”，很多人古巴人靠偷窃、欺诈，有时候靠卖淫勉强过活，古巴人的道德品行因此败坏。没穿上衣的亚力克西站在他的小房子外，指着自己24岁的儿子，他正在人行道上修理轮毂盖。
“How could I raise him with the same morals, when just to put rice, beans and pork on the table requires all kinds of illegalities?” he said. “I had to teach him the values of survival.”
“我们需要通过各种非法途径才能获得足够的大米、豆子及猪肉，在这种情况下，我又如何给他灌输同样的道德观念，抚养他长大成人呢？”他说。“我得教他生存的价值。”
In her cramped, airless apartment downtown, Rosa Marta Martínez, 65, agreed.
65岁的罗莎·玛尔塔·马丁内斯(Rosa Marta Martínez)住在市区一个拥挤不堪、通风不良的公寓里，她与亚力克西意见一致。
“What do you expect?” said Ms. Martínez, who shares the only bedroom with two grandchildren and a great-grandchild. “People have housing problems. Food prices are high. They are desperate.”
马丁内斯与两个孙子及一个曾孙住在唯一的一间卧室内。她表示，“你还指望什么呢？人们面临住房问题。食品价格太高。他们感到绝望。”
In Ms. Martínez’s dilapidated building, the thump of reggaeton, which has replaced timba, a form of Cuban dance music, as the national soundtrack, blasted from across the street. Residents said children played in the corridors until late at night and neighbors crashed about at all hours and ignored their complaints. In the nearby streets, garbage was piled on the curb beside empty trash bins.
在马丁内斯那栋破旧不堪的住房里，能听到从街对面传来的瑞格顿舞曲发出的重颤，它已取代古巴的廷巴舞曲，成了该国四处都在播放的背景音乐。居民们说，孩子们一直到深夜都在走廊里玩耍，无论几点，总会有邻居们吵吵嚷嚷地跑来跑去，而且对他们的抱怨充耳不闻。在临近的街道上，垃圾就堆放在路边，而旁边就是空无一物的垃圾桶。
Still, Havana has avoided the rampant crime and drug violence that plague many Latin American — and American — cities. And in spite of complaints about deteriorating manners, many Cubans maintain a sense of community and remain close to family, sharing food or helping out friends and neighbors.
尽管如此，哈瓦那还是能幸免于猖獗的犯罪和毒品暴力活动，此类活动在许多拉丁美洲城市，乃至美国的城市里泛滥成灾。尽管文明礼节日渐恶化使人不断抱怨，然而许多古巴人依然保持着社区意识，对家人十分亲密，乐于分享食物，或者帮助朋友和邻居摆脱困难。
Many Cubans, though, like Miguel Coyula, an expert in urban planning, worry that an entire generation of Cubans has known nothing but the warped economics and privations of the post-Soviet period.
不过，也有很多古巴人忧心忡忡，比如城市规划专家米格尔·科尤拉(Miguel Coyula)。他担心有整整一代的古巴人，只了解扭曲的经济现象和苏联解体后的时期的匮乏，对其他事一无所知。
Beyond that, he said, the “inverted social pyramid,” in which a doctor earns less than a manicurist, is becoming more pronounced as small-scale entrepreneurs, using the openings Mr. Castro has made to introduce some private enterprise, make money selling pizzas or mobile handsets.
他说，除此之外，“倒金字塔型社会”的现象正在变得更加明显。卡斯特罗为了引入更多私有企业，放松了政策，小规模的创业者趁着政策松动，通过销售披萨或手机赚钱。在这种环境下，医生的收入还不如美甲师。
“The money is not in the hands of the most educated,” Mr. Coyula said.
科尤拉说，“受教育最高的群体并没有赚到钱。”
Cuba sets great store by its cultural prestige. After the 1959 revolution, the government set out to purge the decadence that made Havana a magnet for Americans, among others. The state started a national literacy campaign, offered free education to all and established rigorous sports, ballet and music programs.
古巴十分重视自身的文化声誉。1959年发生革命之后，政府开始着手扫除颓废堕落的风气，这种风气曾使哈瓦那成为一块磁石，吸引了包括美国人在内的许多人。国家启动了一场全国性的扫盲运动，给所有公民提供免费教育，还开展了一丝不苟的体育、芭蕾和音乐课程。
In a land where moralizing axioms shout from murals and billboards, even some televisions — including Ms. Martínez’s government-issued one — are programmed to display the saying, when switched on, that “to be cultured is the only way to be free.”
在这个装饰画和广告牌都布满道德说教的国度，就连一些电视机都编好了程序，一打开就会显示下面的话，“要想获得自由，学文化是唯一的途径”。马丁内斯那台政府发的电视就是这样。
But Cubans complain that sliding professional standards, inexperienced teachers who are barely older than their students and a lack of public facilities have helped corrode people’s civic-mindedness.
然而，古巴人抱怨说，职业水准下滑，教师缺乏经验，年纪比学生大不了多少，而且缺乏公共设施，这已经损害了人们热心公共事务的态度。
“There is nowhere around here for a kid to play soccer or chess,” said Yusaima González, 22, Ms. Martínez’s granddaughter, of the noisy warren of streets where she lives. While she talked, her 3-year-old son played ball in the grimy hallway outside.
今年22岁的尤赛玛·冈萨雷斯(Yusaima González)是马丁内斯的孙女。她在描述她所居住的吵闹、杂乱无章的街区时说，“附近没有能让孩子踢足球，或者下棋的地方。”说话之间，她3岁的儿子正在外面脏兮兮的走廊里玩球。
“Young people needed places to dance, play or listen to music,” she said. “Somewhere you can feel part of something.”
她说，“年轻人需要有地方跳舞、玩乐或者听音乐。需要一个感觉自己能融入其中的空间。”
In his speech, Mr. Castro proposed a combination of education, promotion of culture and enforcement to restore the country’s civility. He called on workers’ unions, the authorities, teachers, intellectuals and artists, among others, to hold other Cubans to standards of behavior.
在他的演讲中，卡斯特罗提出了一个重建该国文明的组合方案，该方案融教育、文化推广和执法行动于一体。他呼吁包括工会、主管部门、教师、知识分子和艺术家在内的群体，带领古巴人遵循行为准则。
Ms. González, however, believes that penalizing small infractions would only open the gap between young people and the authorities. The police fined her brother, 14, about $2 two years ago for playing soccer in the street without a shirt, she said.
不过，冈萨雷斯认为，惩罚微小的违规行为，只会在年轻人和主管部门之间制造隔阂。她说，她今年14岁的弟弟，两年曾因在街上赤膊踢足球，被警方罚了大约2美元（约合12.2元人民币）。
“Imagine, fining a 12-year-old,” she added.
她补充说，“想象一下，连12岁孩子都罚。”