When President Obama, the first lady and their daughters arrived in Havana on Sunday, it was the first presidential visit to Cuba since Calvin Coolidge in 1928. Such an occasion demanded diplomacy, behind the scenes and publicly (Mr. Obama and Raúl Castro, Cuba’s president, gave a lengthy news conference), sightseeing and a bit of celebration: a state dinner, held at the Palace of the Revolution.
奥巴马总统和第一夫人及他们的女儿在周日抵达哈瓦那，这是继卡尔文·柯立芝(Calvin Coolidge)1928年访问古巴之后，美国在任总统首次访问该国。不管是在台前（奥巴马和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗[Raúl Castro]一起举行了一场时间不短的新闻发布会）还是幕后，这种场合总少不了外交手腕、参观活动和一些庆祝仪式：在革命宫(Palace of the Revolution)举行一场国宴。
When the important questions of the day — human rights, the future of the American trade embargo, Cuba’s future — were raised (if not settled), a frothier one came to the fore: Cuba was giving a party. What would Michelle Obama wear?
在当下的一些重要议题——人权、美国贸易禁运的前景、古巴的未来——被提出（哪怕没有得到解决）的同时，还有一个更肤浅的问题也会浮出水面：古巴在举办一个大派对，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)会穿什么出席？
Even well into her husband’s second term, Mrs. Obama’s fashion choices are followed, cataloged and scrutinized, and at state dinners in particular, she has made a habit of her own kind of sartorial diplomacy, often electing designers whose work spans in some way the United States and its guest or host. For a state dinner hosting Canada, she chose the New York-based Canadian-Taiwanese designer Jason Wu; for a China state dinner in 2015, the Chinese-American Vera Wang.
尽管此刻已是她丈夫第二次总统任期的后期，奥巴马夫人的着装依然受到关注、记录和品评，像国宴这种场合尤其如此。她已经形成一种自己的外交着装习惯，即往往选择能以某种方式将美国和它的客人或东道主联系起来的设计师。在为加拿大总理举行的国宴上，她选择了旅居纽约的台裔加拿大设计师吴季刚(Jason Wu)的设计；在2015年为中国国家主席举办的国宴上，她则身着华裔美国设计师王薇薇(Vera Wang)的礼服。
Speculation, accordingly, ran to two prominent Cuban-American designers whose work Mrs. Obama has championed: Isabel Toledo, whose canary-yellow dress and coat she wore to her husband’s first inauguration, and Narciso Rodriguez, whom she has worn several times, most recently to the State of the Union address in January.
因此，人们这次猜测的是奥巴马夫人推崇的两位杰出古巴裔美国设计师：伊莎贝尔·托莱多(Isabel Toledo)和纳西索·罗德里格斯(Narciso Rodriguez)。在丈夫第一任期的就职典礼上，她就穿了前者设计的淡黄色礼服和外套；后者的礼服她穿得更多，最近一次是在今年1月奥巴马总统发表国情咨文演说时。
In the end, Mrs. Obama went with Naeem Khan, the Indian-American designer she has worn often.
最终，奥巴马夫人选择了她经常穿着的印裔美国设计师纳伊姆·汗(Naeem Khan)的服装。
“I had sent her a couple of different things,” Mr. Khan said in an interview on Tuesday morning. “I had no idea. You never know what she’s going to wear. I guess I got pretty lucky.”
“我给她提供了好几套不同的服装，”汗在周二早上接受采访时说道。“之前我并不知情。你很难预料她会穿谁的衣服。我想我这次运气不错。”
Mr. Khan is responsible for some of Mrs. Obama’s best looks, including the gown she wore to a state dinner for India in 2009. (Cathy Horyn, then the fashion critic of The New York Times, wrote, “She probably never looked better.”) He has also become something of a family favorite: The first daughters Malia and Sasha Obama wore Naeem Khan dresses for their first appearance at a state dinner at the Canada dinner this month. (“I guess they see their mom in all the glam and want to be like her,” Mr. Khan said. “I was very happy when they chose something.”)
奥巴马夫人有不少最佳着装都出自汗之手，包括2009年她在为印度总理举办的国宴上穿的那件长款礼服。（当时的《纽约时报》时尚评论人凯西·奥兰[Cathy Horyn]曾写道，“这可能是她穿得最好看的一次。”）从某种意义上讲，他成了这家人的最爱：他们的女儿玛丽亚和萨沙·奥巴马本月首次出席国宴，也就是款待加拿大总理的宴会时，就穿着纳伊姆·汗设计的裙子。（“我猜她们是看到妈妈穿这些服装魅力四射的样子，也想像她那样，”汗说。“每次她们选中一些什么时，我都很高兴。”）
The dress Mrs. Obama selected for the Cuban dinner, in a Kashmiri fabric embroidered with an Indian floral motif, is similar to one in the same fabric from the designer’s pre-fall collection. It was a lovely, sprightly choice, less glamorous than what Ms. Obama often selects for such events, but in this case, well suited to the occasion. The dinner’s dress code, Women’s Wear Daily reported, was “casual cocktail,” so Mr. Khan sent cocktail dresses rather than the gowns he is known for. During her Cuban visit, Mrs. Obama has been on a floral kick, selecting a floral Carolina Herrera dress for her arrival in the country.
奥巴马夫人为出席古巴国宴所选择的服装是克什米尔面料，上面有印度花朵图案的刺绣。它与设计师早秋系列服装中的一款同样面料的服装类似，显得可爱而又明快，不像奥巴马夫人通常为此类场合选择的服装那样华美，但非常适合这样的一个场合。据《女装日报》(Women’s Wear Daily)报道，这次国宴采用“便装鸡尾酒会”着装，所以汗送过去几件酒会礼服，而非他更为人所知的长款礼服。在这次古巴访问期间，奥巴马夫人显示出对花朵图案的热衷，在抵达该国时她就身着一件卡罗琳娜·埃雷拉(Carolina Herrera)设计的花裙。
Mr. Khan does not have a direct connection to Cuba, but he does have an indirect one: He explained that he is in the process of moving his design studio and his production from New York to Miami, where he has a second home. Miami is home to a large Cuban-American population — including the city and county mayors, with whom Mr. Khan is working to set up production facilities and bring jobs.
汗和古巴没有直接关系，但有间接的联系：他解释说，他正在把自己的设计工作室和工厂从纽约迁往迈阿密，他在那里另有一处住宅。迈阿密是古巴裔美国人的一大聚居地，该市市长和多位县长都是古巴裔，汗正和他们一起在当地建厂房，为那里创造工作机会。
“This is going to be a game changer for Miami,” Mr. Khan predicted. “After what America has done for me, coming from India, I need to give back to this country.”
“这会彻底改变迈阿密的状况。”汗预言。“我从印度来到美国后，这里给予了我很多，我需要回馈这个国家。”
About Mrs. Obama, Mr. Khan had nothing but praise.
对于奥巴马夫人，汗除了赞美，还是赞美。
“She has made my brand and put America back in fashion,” he said. “I would do anything for her.”
“她成就了我的品牌，让美国又时尚起来，”他说。“我会为她做任何事。”