MOSS, Norway — Like many Europeans, Marianne Haaland Bogdanoff, a travel agency manager in this southern Norwegian town, does not go to church, except maybe at Christmas, and is doubtful about the existence of God.
挪威莫斯——玛丽安·哈兰德·伯格丹诺夫(Marianne Haaland Bogdanoff)是这个挪威南部小镇一家旅行社的经理，像很多欧洲人一样，她一般也不去教堂，可能圣诞节是个例外，而且她也不相信上帝的存在。
But when “weird things” — inexplicable computer breakdowns, strange smells and noises and complaints from staff members of constant headaches — started happening at the ground-floor travel office, she slowly began to put aside her deep skepticism about life beyond the here and now. After computer experts, electricians and a plumber all failed to find the cause of her office's troubles, she finally got help from a clairvoyant who claimed powers to communicate with the dead. The headaches and other problems all vanished.
但是，当“奇怪的事情”——莫名其妙的电脑故障、异味和噪音，工作人员老是抱怨头疼——开始在这个平街层的旅游办公室发生之后，她开始慢慢地放下自己对超自然的深刻怀疑。计算机专家、电工和水管工都没有找到办公室故障的原因，她最终是从一个自称能和死者交流的通灵者那里获得了帮助。头痛这些问题都消失了。
“I don't know what she did,” Bogdanoff said. “It was very strange,” she added, recalling how the clairvoyant “cleansed” her travel office of a ghostlike presence neither she nor her staff had seen but whose existence they had all felt and come to fear.
“我不知道她做了什么，”伯格丹诺夫说。“这非常奇怪，”她回想起通灵者把一个幽灵般的存在从她旅行社的办公室“清理”出去。无论是她还是工作人员都看不到这个幽灵，但却都能感觉到它的存在，而且感到很害怕。
Hege Sandtro Kruse, another employee at the travel agency, described the whole experience as a “bit strange, a bit interesting and a bit creepy.” All the same, she said, it worked: “What it was I don't know. But there was something here, I am sure of that. Now it is gone. I know I am not a total lunatic.”
赫格隆·斯丹特洛·克鲁斯(Hege Sandtro Kruse)是该旅行社的员工，她说整件事“有点怪，有点有趣，又有点让人毛骨悚然”。但她也表示“清理”效果很好：“我不知道它是什么。但就是有个东西，对此我确信无疑。现在它走了。我知道自己不是疯狂迷信的人。”
Ghosts, or at least belief in them, have been around for centuries but they have now found a particularly strong following in highly secular modern countries like Norway, places that are otherwise in the vanguard of what was once seen as Europe's inexorable, science-led march away from superstition and religion.
幽灵，或者至少人们相信有幽灵存在，已经有长达数个世纪的历史，但是现在，在挪威等高度世俗化的现代国家，人们特别相信幽灵的存在。这些国家原本被视为欧洲的排头兵，坚定不移地用科学将大家带离迷信和宗教。
While churches here may be largely empty and belief in God, according to opinion polls, in steady decline, belief in, or at least fascination with, ghosts and spirits is surging. Even Norway's royal family, which is required by law to belong to the Evangelical Lutheran Church, has flirted with ghosts, with a princess coaching people on how to reach out to spirits.
虽然这里的教堂很多时候空荡荡的，而且民意调查显示，信上帝的人在稳步减少，但是信鬼神，或者至少是迷恋鬼神的情绪却在涌动。即便是按法律规定属于福音信义会的挪威王室，也采取估妄听之的态度，一位公主就曾指导人们如何主动接触灵体。
“God is out but spirits and ghosts are filling the vacuum,” said Roar Fotland, a Methodist preacher and assistant professor at the Norwegian School of Theology in Oslo. Instead of slowly eliminating religion, as Sigmund Freud, Karl Marx and other theorists predicted, modernity has only channeled religious feelings in unexpected ways, Fotland said.
“人们不信上帝了，但神鬼正在填补真空，”奥斯陆挪威神学院(Norwegian School of Theology)的卫理公会牧师和助理教授若尔·弗特兰德(Roar Fotland)说。西格蒙德·弗洛伊德(Sigmund Freud)、卡尔·马克思(Karl Marx)等理论家曾经预测，现代性会慢慢导致宗教的消亡，但实际上，现代性只不过是以一种意想不到的方式来抒发宗教感情，弗特兰德说。
“Belief in God, or at least a Christian God, is decreasing but belief in spirits is increasing,” he added, describing this as part of a general resurgence of “premodern religion.”
“对上帝，或者至少是对基督教上帝的信仰，目前处在下降趋势，但相信神灵的人正在增加，”他说。他认为这是“前现代宗教”卷土重来的一个表现。
Tom Hedalen, a road engineer and committed atheist who is chairman of Norway's Humanist Association, insisted that religion is still on its last legs and that the grip of ghosts on rational, modern minds merely reflected the success of charlatans at playing on people's fears.
道路工程师汤姆·哈多兰(Tom Hedalen)是一个坚定的无神论者，也是挪威人文主义协会(Norway's Humanist Association)的会长，他坚称，宗教仍旧处在奄奄一息的状态，一些理性的现代派人士之所以相信幽灵，只不过是因为一些骗子成功利用了人们的恐惧心理。
The Humanist Association, which ran a national campaign under the slogan, “Don't Let Yourself Be Cheated,” does “not believe in God, trolls or Santa Claus,” Hedalen said. “In the end, all religion will die out,” he added.
哈多兰说，人文主义协会在全国开展活动，口号是“不要让自己受人欺骗”，以及“不信上帝、巨魔或圣诞老人”。他说，“最终，所有的宗教将消亡。”
That could be some way off yet. The appeal of ghost stories has helped fuel the unexpected popularity of a television series called “The Power of Spirits,” now in its 10th season. The show has around half a million viewers each Sunday, a huge audience in a country of just 5.1 million people and more than twice the number of regular churchgoers in Norway.
但这可能还需要一段时间。一部名为《神灵的力量》(The Power of Spirits)的电视连续剧出人意料的大受欢迎，幽灵故事的吸引力起了助推作用。这部剧现在已经播到了第十季，每周日有50万左右的人观看。在一个人口仅510万的国家，这个观众群堪称庞大，是定期去教堂的挪威人的两倍多。
“We are bigger than the Norwegian church,” the show's presenter, Tom Stromnaess, said. He said he did not believe in ghosts as “creatures with white sheets and black eyes” but, though initially very skeptical about paranormal phenomena, he has come around to the view that forces exist that cannot be seen or understood.
“我们的影响力比挪威教会还大，”该剧的出品人汤姆·施特罗姆内斯(Tom Stromnaess)说。他表示自己不相信幽灵是“穿着白袍、长着黑眼睛的生物”，尽管最初非常怀疑超常现象，但他现在认为，的确存在无法看到或理解的力量。
“It is very hard to say this is all just garbage. This is for real,” he said, recounting how he had visited many homes where things happened that “defy all physical laws.”
“很难说这都不过是废话。是真的，”他说，并详细介绍了自己去很多家庭的情况。那些家庭发生的事情“有悖于一切自然法则”。
Arild Romarheim, a Lutheran priest and recently retired theology lecturer, described the conviction of well-educated atheists and agnostics that ghosts exist as “the paradox of modernity” — a revival of old beliefs to slake an innate human thirst for a spiritual life left unsatisfied by the decline of the church.
路德教派牧师、已于最近退休的神学讲师阿里尔·罗马尔海姆(Arild Romarheim)称，受过良好教育的无神论者和不可知论者相信存在幽灵是“现代性的悖论”。他认为，教会地位的衰落导致人的精神生活无法得到满足，而古老信仰的重新兴起正是为了满足人固有的对精神生活的渴望。
Belief in ghosts, he said, has become so strong that even the Lutheran Church, to which most Norwegians formally belong, has adopted a so-called “ghost liturgy” for use by preachers who get asked by parishioners to help cleanse haunted houses.
他说，对鬼神的信仰如此强烈，以至路德教会都采用了一种所谓的“幽灵礼拜仪式”，供牧师在教区居民请其帮助为凶宅驱邪时使用。在形式上，大部分挪威人都是路德教教徒。
Unn Bohm Tveito, also from Moss, recalled how she had never believed in or even thought about ghosts until she started working as the manager of the town's tourism information office. She kept noticing that German-language brochures always ended up being the most prominently displayed, which was odd since few tourists who visit Moss speak German.
同样来自莫斯的翁·博姆·特韦托(Unn Bohm Tveito)回忆说，她从来不相信，甚至都没考虑过鬼神这类事情，直到开始在镇上的旅游信息办公室担任经理。她总是发现，德语版的小册子最后总是摆放在最显眼的位置，这一点很奇怪，因为来莫斯旅游的人几乎没有说德语的。
In 2013, she raised the issue with other staff members, who said they had noticed the same thing. “Ghosts are not the first thing you think of, but we decided that this could not be explained in a normal way,” she said.
2013年，她和其他工作人员说起了这件事。对方表示也注意到了这件事。“不会首先想到幽灵，但我们断定，没法用常理解释这个现象，”她说。
A clairvoyant sent by the ghost television show, she said, solved the mystery: a dead German soldier who had worked in the same building during the 1940-45 Nazi occupation of Norway was still on the premises and kept messing with the brochures.
她表示，前述幽灵电视剧派去的一名通灵者解开了谜团：一名已故德国士兵仍在这栋楼里，胡乱摆放小册子的，便是这个纳粹1940年至1945年占领挪威期间在这栋楼里工作的士兵。