An aging North Korean freighter similar to the one impounded by Panama for carrying concealed Cuban military equipment made the same voyage last year without attracting suspicion, passing through the Panama Canal and calling at the same two Cuban ports, an international maritime traffic monitor said on Wednesday.
周三，一家国际海运监察机构表示，一艘与因为偷运古巴军事装备而遭巴拿马扣押的那艘货船类似的老旧朝鲜货船，去年也曾进行过相同的航行，但并未引起怀疑。这艘船通过了巴拿马运河，停靠到了相同的两座古巴港口。
The monitor, IHS Fairplay, said both vessels — the 390-foot Oun Chong Nyon Ho, which made the voyage last year, and the 450-foot Chong Chon Gang — usually worked much closer to North Korea, making their trans-Pacific trips to Cuba even more unusual.
披露以上信息的监察机构IHS Fairplay称，两艘船通常在离朝鲜近得多的海域作业，因此它们穿越太平洋前往古巴的航行愈发显得蹊跷。去年出航的是390英尺（约合119米）长的“渔隐青年号”（Oun Chong Nyon Ho，音译），本次遭扣押的则为450英尺长的“清川江号”(Chong Chon Gang)。
“They don’t normally make these ocean passages,” Richard Hurley, a senior maritime data specialist at IHS Fairplay, said in a phone interview from the group’s London offices. “It’s intriguing to see two fairly small ships making the same pattern.”
IHS Fairplay的高级海事数据专家理查德·赫尔利(Richard Hurley)从该组织的伦敦办公室接受电话采访称，“它们一般不会越洋航行。看到两艘相当小的船以相同的模式行动，十分令人好奇。”
Mr. Hurley said a new review of IHS Fairplay tracking data showed the two freighters were among five North Korean cargo vessels that had traversed the Panama Canal since 2010, underscoring the rarity of North Korean shipping in the area.
赫尔利表示，重新核查IHS Fairplay的追踪数据后发现，2010年以来，包括这两艘船在内，仅有五艘朝鲜货船曾通过巴拿马运河，突显朝鲜船只极少在这一区域航行。
The revelation of what Mr. Hurley called a “mirror image” voyage in 2012 by the Oun Chong Nyon Ho added a new twist to the intrigue surrounding the impounded ship, which has been docked at the port of Manzanillo in Panama since Sunday, after a five-day standoff with Panamanian authorities who had requested permission to inspect the cargo.
赫尔利将“渔隐青年号”2012年的航行称为“镜像”之旅。这件事被披露出来，给围绕着“清川江号”的谜团又增添了新的变数。从周日开始，“清川江号”一直扣押在巴拿马的曼萨尼约港。被扣之前，该船已经和要求上船检查的巴拿马当局对峙了五天后。
The ship’s captain and crew were detained at a naval base after they violently resisted a boarding party of Panamanian marines acting on a tip that the ship was carrying contraband.
此前，巴拿马海事部门接到密报称船上载有违禁货品，但其上船检查的要求遭船长和船员的暴力反抗。其后，这些人被拘押在了一座海军基地中。
The marines discovered a load of Russian-built military equipment owned by Cuba, including antiquated Soviet-era radar gear, hidden among more than 200,000 sacks of Cuban brown sugar. After two days of silence, Cuba acknowledged the cargo on Tuesday night, describing it as “obsolete defensive weapons” sent to North Korea to be refurbished.
海事部门发现了大量古巴拥有的俄制军事装备，包括藏在20万袋古巴红糖中间的苏联时代的老旧雷达设备。两天之后，古巴打破沉默，于周二晚间承认了这批货品，并称其为运往朝鲜维修的“过时防御武器”。
Angry Panamanian officials have protested the attempt to ship the cargo through the canal as a violation of United Nations Security Council sanctions on North Korea, which has yet to comment publicly on the episode. The shipment also threatens to derail recent efforts by the Cuban government to ease its prolonged estrangement from the United States, where some lawmakers are calling for retribution.
愤怒的巴拿马官员抗议，通过巴拿马运河运输这些货物的企图，违反了联合国安理会对朝鲜的制裁令。朝鲜尚未对这起事件做出公开回应。古巴政府近期正在努力缓解与美国之间的长期矛盾，但运送武器的事件可能会使之化为泡影，一些美国议员呼吁应予以惩罚。
At the United Nations on Wednesday, a spokesman for Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said that he was aware of the impounded ship’s reported cargo but that it was up to the Security Council’s sanctions committee to determine any violations.
周三，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)的发言人表示，秘书长知晓新闻报道的被扣船只所载货品的情况，不过应由安理会的制裁委员会判定是否属于违反制裁。
The 35 detained North Koreans, including the captain, who had sought to commit suicide after his ship was impounded, were receiving unspecified medical attention, the Panama prosecutor’s office said Tuesday night. In a possible indication that they might face criminal charges, the office said the crew would be assisted by Panamanian lawyers and interpreters in interrogations.
周二晚间，巴拿马检察官办公室表示，包括船长在内的35名被扣朝鲜船员，正在接受医疗护理，但没有透露具体情形。货船遭扣押后，船长曾企图自杀。声明还称，船员接受问讯时，将得到巴拿马律师和翻译的协助。这可能表明，他们也许会面临刑事指控。
It was not known what cargo the Oun Chong Nyon Ho might have carried to or from Cuba in 2012. IHS Fairplay’s tracking data showed it made the same Cuban port calls as its impounded sister vessel, stopping first in Havana for a few days in May 2012, then visiting Puerto Padre, a major sugar export point, for five days, then returning to Havana for a stopover of about three weeks before heading home through the Panama Canal.
尚不清楚“渔隐青年号”2012年可能将何种货物运出或运进了古巴。IHS Fairplay的追踪数据显示，它与遭扣押的“清川江号”停靠了相同的古巴港口，先是于2012年5月在哈瓦那停靠了数日，又在主要的糖出口地帕德雷港停靠了五天，然后返回哈瓦那逗留了三周，最后通过巴拿马运河回国。
Mr. Hurley said he could only presume that the Oun Chong Nyon Ho had picked up a load of sugar at Puerto Padre. Sugar is a major Cuban export, but North Korea is not a frequent customer.
赫尔利称，只能推测“渔隐青年号”在帕德雷港装载了大量的糖。糖是古巴的主要出口商品之一，但朝鲜并不属于常客。
José Raúl Mulino, Panama’s minister of security, said on Wednesday that his government had requested help from the United States and Britain in its investigation of the impounded ship.
巴拿马安全部长何塞·劳尔·穆利诺(José Raúl Mulino)周三表示，该国政府已请求美国和英国协助调查这艘扣留的货船。
In an interview on Panama’s TVN-2 television network, Mr. Mulino also disclosed that Cuba had asked Panama to release the ship the day before it was impounded, which surprised him at the time.
穆利诺在接受巴拿马TVN–2电视台采访时还透露，扣留船只的前一天，古巴曾要求巴拿马放船，当时让他非常吃惊。
“Now I definitely understand, as does anyone who has been following the case, why the captain was so reticent in his cooperation, why the varied efforts at mutiny from the crew,” Mr. Mulino said.
穆利诺说，“现在我完全明白了，船长为什么会这么不愿意合作，而船员又为何会尽一切努力反抗。关注本案的每个人肯定也都明白了。”