Pablo Escobar was loose. He darted across a noisy warehouse, searching for a corner to loom in.
巴勃罗·埃斯科瓦尔(Pablo Escobar)无拘无束。他在闹哄哄的仓库里横冲直撞，寻找着可以进犯的角落。
He’s “kind of a bully,” said Duke Riley, the Brooklyn artist who trained him, watching Pablo flit around before landing on a ledge near the ceiling. Pablo Escobar is a homing pigeon, and an accessory — or an accomplice — to the latest exhibition by Mr. Riley, whose work often flouts both laws and common sense.
巴勃罗的训练师、布鲁克林艺术家杜克·莱利(Duke Riley)说，这家伙“有点恶霸的意思”。在莱利的注视下，巴勃罗在空中穿梭了一阵后停在了天花板附近的一个壁架上。巴勃罗·埃斯科瓦尔是一只信鸽，也是莱利最新展览的一部分——或者同案犯，莱利的工作常常是对法律和常识的公然藐视。
“Generally, I do things that don’t really seem that feasible,” Mr. Riley explained, “and then they tend to work out.”
“一般来说，我会做那些看起来行不通的事，”莱利说，“但我往往能成功。”
But even by his standards, the pigeon project, “Trading With the Enemy,” strained credulity. In utmost secret, Mr. Riley trained a flock of homing pigeons to fly one way from Havana to Key West, Fla. Half the birds were flat-out smugglers, running Cuban cigars to the United States. The others were documentarians, outfitted with special cameras to record their 100-mile journey across the Straits of Florida.
但即便按照他的标准，这个名为“对敌贸易”(Trading With the Enemy)的鸽子训练计划也有点离谱。莱利秘密训练了一群信鸽，让它们从哈瓦那飞到佛罗里达州的基韦斯特。其中一半的鸽子是彻头彻尾的“走私者”，把古巴的雪茄运入美国。另外一半则是“记录者”，它们配备了特殊的摄像头，从而记录它们穿越佛罗里达海峡的100英里旅程。
The idea was to highlight the long history of pirating on the southern border, and also to thumb a nose, artistically, at the cutting-edge spy devices that may monitor the coast. Drones don’t care about pigeons.
莱利的想法是展示南部边境海盗活动的悠久历史，同时以艺术的方式对可能监控着海岸的先进侦察设备表示不屑。无人机不会去留意鸽子。
“I wanted to subvert this billions-of-dollars high-tech system with things that were being used in ancient Sumeria,” said Mr. Riley, who researched pigeon history. In the early 20th century, they were regular messengers between coastal authorities in Cuba and Florida. “They would let a pigeon go,” he said, to signify safe arrival.
“我想要用古苏美尔人使用过的东西来颠覆价值数十亿美元的高科技系统，”曾研究过鸽子历史的莱利说。20世纪初，古巴和佛罗里达州的海岸边防机关经常用鸽子充当信使。他说“他们会放飞一只鸽子”，表示已经安全抵达。
With objects and video — and live birds — “Trading” is part of his solo show, “See You at the Finish Line,” opening at the Magnan Metz Gallery on Nov. 1. He’s been promoting it by wheat-pasting posters around town.
包括实物和视频以及活生生的鸽子的“交易”计划是他的个人展览的一部分。展览题为“相约终点线”(See You at the Finish Line)，将于11月1日在马格南-梅兹画廊(Magnan Metz Gallery)开幕。莱利用浆糊在城里四处贴海报，为展览作宣传。
In his artist statement, Mr. Riley, 41, calls himself a patriot, and he often sets his work on the waterfront, exploring the boundaries of institutions and authorities. In 2007, he was arrested after he floated a homemade replica of a Revolutionary War-era submarine too close to the Queen Mary II. (“Despite the fact that they were pointing machine guns at me in the pictures,” he said of the New York harbor police, “they were actually very nice.”) A 2009 performance in a reflecting pool in Queens, a staged naval battle, ended in a drunken, fiery melee.
在他的艺术家阐述中，现年41岁的莱利称，自己是一名爱国者，他经常把作品设定在岸边，试探体制和政府的界限。他曾在2007年被逮捕，因为他自制的美国独立战争时期的潜水艇复制品距离玛丽皇后二号(Queen Mary II)的位置太近了。（他提到纽约港湾警察时说，“尽管他们用机枪对着我，但他们实际上人挺好的。”）2009年，他在皇后区一个倒映池做了行为表演——一场精心安排的海战，作品最终以一场酒醉后的激烈混战收场。
This avian performance was riskier, Mr. Riley said, and he was coy about his methods. “How those cigars end up on the birds, I can’t say,” he said, carefully. “If a bird ends up in my pigeon lofts, that happens to have a cigar from Cuba, and there also happens to be a pigeon that has a video camera on it, that shows footage of birds flying from Havana to Key West with cigars — yeah, I can’t really say how that happened.”
莱利说，这次信鸽展览的风险更大。他对他的方法含糊其辞。“这些雪茄是怎么绑在鸟儿身上的，我无可奉告，”他谨慎地说。“如果一只鸽子进入了我的鸽棚，刚好带了一支古巴的雪茄，还有一只鸽子恰好带着一个摄像头，记录了携带着雪茄的鸽子从哈瓦那飞向基韦斯特的画面——没错，我不能告诉你这是怎么回事。”
The Treasury Department, which oversees the trade embargo with Cuba, was similarly flummoxed. “Oooookkkkkay,” a spokeswoman responded, when told about the project by a reporter. In a statement, she added that importing or dealing in Cuban goods is generally prohibited for “persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.”
负责监管对古巴的贸易禁令的财政部也同样困惑。在从一名记者那里听到这个项目时，财政部的一名发言人的反应是，“好……吧。”她在一份声明中补充说，对于“受到美国政府管辖的个人”，进口或交易古巴商品基本上是被禁止的。
Mr. Riley will say this: He started the training in Florida last year with 50 pigeons; 23 went on the first mission, this summer. Only 11 returned.
莱利可以透露的是：他去年在佛罗里达州开始训练50只鸽子；今年夏天，有23只鸽子第一次执行任务，只有11只飞了回来。
That’s par for the course with racing birds, he said, as he gave a tour of the colorful pigeon loft which once was command central in Key West. It had been shipped back to Brooklyn and stored in a friend’s Gowanus metal shop. The cigar-carrying birds were named for notorious smugglers, like Pierre Lafitte, of New Orleans, and Minnie Burr, from Memphis, who transported supplies under her skirts during the Civil War. The documentarians were named for directors who had trouble with the law, like Roman Polanski and Mel Gibson. Mr. Riley painted portraits — or, depending on your perspective, mug shots — of all 50, which detailed their efforts (Pierre completed his mission; Minnie, alas, was lost at sea) to display and sell at the gallery.
他说，这在赛鸽过程中很常见。他带我们参观了他那五颜六色的鸽棚，它曾是这次信鸽项目在基韦斯特的指挥中心。鸽棚现在已经被船运回布鲁克林，储存在一个朋友在郭瓦纳斯的金属商店里。这些携带着雪茄的鸽子被以一些著名走私者的名字命名，比如新奥尔良的皮埃尔·拉菲特(Pierre Lafitte)，以及孟菲斯的米妮·伯尔(Minnie Burr)，后者曾在内战期间把走私物资藏在裙子里。而充当记录者的鸽子则以一些触犯过法律的导演的名字命名，比如罗曼·波兰斯基(Roman Polanski)和梅尔·吉布森(Mel Gibson)。莱利为它们——全部的50只——画了肖像，或者你也可以把它们叫做大头照，并详细地附上了它们的行动说明（皮埃尔完成了任务；米妮，唉，在海上不知去向），在画廊展示和销售。
Also on view: the pigeons’ harnesses, worthy of Etsy, fashioned from bright bra straps with adorably embroidered smuggling pockets; the half-dozen Cohiba cigars they held, cast in resin; and a split-screen bird’s-eye documentation of the flight.
同时展出的还有：完全可以放在Etsy上卖的鸽子挽具，用亮色的胸罩吊带制作，搭配用可爱的刺绣装饰的走私口袋；它们携带的半打经过塑封的高希霸(Cohiba)雪茄；一段双屏呈现的鸟瞰镜头纪录片。
The pigeon-cam footage is shaky but mesmerizing. Mr. Riley and his small team labored for years to lighten the cameras, doctoring them to record at intervals from multiple angles. The birds shot hours of video: takeoffs, landings, ocean, and quite a few stops in between. “I didn’t know they were going to take breaks,” Mr. Riley said.
鸽子摄像机拍摄的素材很不稳定，但令人着迷。莱利和他的小团队花了数年时间来减轻摄像机的重量，对它们进行改装，以实现多个角度的定时间隔拍摄。总长数小时的鸟瞰画面包括起飞、落地、海洋，中间有不少停留的时间。“我都不知道它们中间还有休息的，”莱利说。
A well-trained pigeon could make the flight in perhaps five hours. Some of his took two weeks. At least one landed on a Florida party boat, where it was quickly spotted, with cameras rolling. “It’s wearing a bomb!” a woman says, as a Jimmy Buffett song plays in the background.
一只训练有素的鸽子可以在五小时内飞完全程。他的鸽子里有几只花了两周才到达。至少有一只降落在了佛罗里达州一艘举办派对的船上，船上的人很快发现它，以及正在拍摄的摄像机。“它带着炸弹！”一个女人说，背景正在放着吉米·巴菲特(Jimmy Buffett)的歌。
Dara Metz, an owner of the gallery and Mr. Riley’s longtime dealer, said the piece, four years in the making, quickly appealed to her. It was, she said, conceptual, performative, political and funny — all hallmarks of a Riley work. Not that she knows how he does it. “When it comes to Duke’s projects, he’s always candid about what his intentions are,” she said. “He does not get into the details about how he executes them.”
画廊所有人、代理莱利多年的达拉·梅兹(Dara Metz)说，这件耗时四年完成的作品立刻吸引了她。她说作品极具观念性、表演性、政治性，而且风趣——这些都是莱利作品的特点。但她也不知道他是怎么做的。“说到杜克的计划，他总是很直截了当地表达自己的意图，”她说，“但他不会细说具体的执行方法。”
She didn’t feel “Trading With the Enemy” needed the intervention of her lawyers, who might’ve cast a cold eye. “It might be bordering on illegal and pushing the envelope,” but she said, “I don’t think he’s ever putting anybody in jeopardy, besides himself.”
她不认为《对敌贸易》需要让她的律师介入，对此律师也可能完全不感兴趣。“它也许是处在非法的边缘，在挑战极限，”但是她说，“我不认为他会把谁置于危险境地，除了他自己。”
One pair of smuggler birds is for sale, for $100,000 apiece; the flock will be shown at Magnan Metz in the loft he built of wood salvaged from shipwrecks. Ms. Metz has enlisted interns and volunteers to care for the pigeons. “I’m hoping it’s as easy as he says,” she said. (What she had yet to consider: Pigeons mate for life, breed in artificial light and heat, and gestate for 17 to 19 days. The gallery may soon be a hatchery.)
有一对走私鸟将会出售，每只要价10万美元；鸽群将在马格南-梅兹画廊展出，届时鸽子会放在他用沉船木制作的鸽笼里。梅兹招募了实习生和志愿者照看这些鸽子。“希望这事就像他说的那么简单，”她说。（还有个事她需要考虑：鸽子是终生交配的，在人工光照和较暖条件下会繁殖，孕期17到19天。画廊很快会成为一座孵化场。）
Mr. Riley, who makes a living as a tattoo artist and has birds inked on his body, was first entranced after he rescued a pigeon as a boy. “I let it go and it came back,” he said. “You feel sort of connected to the animal after that.”
莱利是个刺青艺人，自己身上纹着鸟，他对鸟的痴迷始于儿时救的一只鸽子。“我放了它，它又回来了，”他说。“经过这样的事，你会觉得自己好像跟这种动物有种联系。”
He even lived with them in a cheap attic loft when he was a student at the Rhode Island School of Design. (The arrangement went over surprisingly well with girlfriends, he said: “You look like maybe a diamond in the rough — you know, like a sensitive bird-lover guy that just needs to be cleaned up a little bit.”) He keeps pigeons in Brooklyn, and simply mailed some of their babies to Key West, which is apparently allowed.
在罗德岛设计学院(Rhode Island School of Design)读书的时候，他甚至跟鸽子们一起住在一个便宜的阁楼房间里。（这个安排在女友们那里起到了奇效，他说：“这让你看上去像是颗未经加工的钻石——就是一个热爱鸟类的敏感小伙子，只是需要清洁一下自己而已。”）他把鸽子留在了布鲁克林，然而把它们生下的一部分雏鸽直接邮寄到了基维斯特，看来鸽子是可以寄的。
But even with his decades of experience, this mission involved “a lot of trial and error,” said Kitty Joe Sainte-Marie, Mr. Riley’s studio and project manager. The pigeons trained during hawk migration season and were prey. “One of them got nailed right in front of me,” Mr. Riley said.
不过，莱利的工作室和计划经理基蒂·乔·圣-玛丽(Kitty Joe Sainte-Marie)说，尽管有几十年的经验，这项任务还是存在“许多的试错”。鸽子在老鹰迁徙的季节受训，有的被捕食了。“其中有一只是我眼睁睁看着被逮住的，”莱利说。
Others were felled by disease, faulty doors in the coops and temperament. “You have to build up their confidence, flying over water, very slowly,” he said. Some of the strongest still disappeared on test runs. “It definitely doesn’t mean that they’re dead,” he said. “They just may not come back.”
还有一些因疾病、鸽笼门的故障，以及自己的性情而倒下了。“你必须给它们建立起信心，飞跃水面，慢慢来，”他说。其中有些是最强壮的，但还是在试飞中消失了。“这绝对不表示它们已经死了，”他说，“它们只是不会回来了。”
Maybe the escapees merely feared the wrath of authorities. Mr. Riley admitted he was a little nervous himself. He envisioned pleading his case before a judge. “Am I at fault, or is the pigeon at fault?” he mused.
这些逃兵有可能只是害怕面对政府的惩罚。莱利承认他自己的确是有些紧张。他设想自己在法官面前为自己辩护。“是我的错，还是鸽子的错？”他沉吟着。
“A pigeon,” Ms. Sainte-Marie offered, “would look real cute in handcuffs.”
“给鸽子戴上手铐应该挺萌的，”圣-玛丽说。