THE HAGUE — A new Chinese owner arrived at the Dutch soccer club ADO Den Haag in early 2014, promising multimillion-dollar investments and better days ahead. Fans of the club liked the sound of that.
海牙——2014年初，一位中国新老板来到了荷兰ADO海牙足球俱乐部(ADO Den Haag)，向俱乐部承诺了大笔投资以及更美好的未来。俱乐部球迷对此欢欣不已。
Yes, the money to buy the team arrived a few months late, but it did arrive in the end, along with firm deadlines for further investments and a handful of new signings. Even if the most ardent fans were wary of the new owner’s intentions, they held their tongues.
是的，购买球队的钱晚到了数月，但最终还是到位了，随之而来的还有进一步投资的确切期限和一些新的引援。尽管最狂热的球迷对新老板的意图有所警惕，但他们还是保持了沉默。
ADO, a 110-year-old club, has not won the top Dutch league, now known as the Eredivisie, since the end of World War II. But the new owner, a wealthy businessman named Wang Hui, promised to turn the team into a powerhouse — one that could challenge the likes of Ajax, P.S.V. Eindhoven and Feyenoord, clubs that have long dominated Dutch soccer, and play well enough to qualify for top European competitions like the Champions League.
有110年历史的ADO海牙自二战结束以来还没有赢得过顶级荷兰联赛——现在被称为荷甲(Eredivisie)——的桂冠。但是俱乐部的新老板、富商王辉(Wang Hui)承诺将球队变为一支劲旅，能够挑战一些长期占据荷兰足球主导地位的俱乐部，如阿贾克斯(Ajax)、埃因霍温(P.S.V. Eindhoven)和费耶诺德(Feyenoord)等，发挥好的话还可以晋级像欧洲冠军联赛之类的欧洲顶级赛事。
Wang seemed like fun, cheering wildly for goals from his box at ADO’s Kyocera Stadium and throwing up his hands in disbelief whenever the team conceded a penalty. At least once, he even took part in a practice session with the players.
王辉似乎乐在其中，他会在ADO海牙的京瓷体育场(Kyocera Stadium)的包厢内为进球欢呼，当球队射失点球时也会举起双手表示难以置信。他甚至至少参加了一次球队训练。
“Wang was very enthusiastic,” said Jacco van Leeuwen, the chairman of the club’s fan association. “He promised European football, so everyone was very happy with him. We showed a banner with Wang on it.”
“王辉先生对足球很狂热，”俱乐部球迷协会会长贾克·范利文(Jacco van Leeuwen)说。“他承诺要帮助俱乐部进入欧洲足坛，所以大家对他非常满意。我们展示了有王的头像的横幅。”
But 18 months later, the supporters’ patience is wearing thin. ADO Den Haag is mired in the middle of the Dutch standings, the flashy signings have stopped, and Wang has missed several deadlines to make payments he promised. Some at the club fear that Wang, who spent millions to buy the club and pledged millions more to improve it, has lost interest in it.
但18个月后，支持者的耐心日渐耗尽。海牙俱乐部一直徘徊在荷甲排行榜中游位置，风光的引援也已停止，而王辉多次没有按照承诺进行投入。俱乐部的一些人担心，花了几百万购买俱乐部，并承诺再投入数百万以提高俱乐部水平的王辉，已经对俱乐部失去了兴趣。
Wang, in an interview in his Beijing office, said he was merely recalculating his strategy, but he also pointedly said that he was under no obligation to do more than he had.
王辉在他的北京办公室接受采访时说，他只是在重新制定战略，但他也若有所指地表示，自己尽到了自己应尽的职责。
“After I pay the takeover, the club is mine,” he said. “It is my business in terms of how much I will invest in the club.”
“在我支付了收购款项后，俱乐部就是我的了，”他说。“对俱乐部进行多少投资，那是我自己的事。”
That change in attitude may not go over well in The Hague. While ADO supporters collected food and supplies to be distributed to the local poor in the weeks before Christmas, they also have a fearsome history. (In the 1980s, they were even accused of setting fire to their own stadium, the Zuiderpark.) And to people from The Hague, words — and actions — matter.
这种态度的转变在海牙恐怕会惹来麻烦。海牙俱乐部支持者会在圣诞节前几周收集食品和用品分发给当地的穷人，但他们也有一段可怕的历史。（20世纪80年代，他们甚至被指纵火烧毁自己的球场Zuiderpark）。而对海牙人来说，言语——和行动——是很要紧的。
“In Den Haag, the character of the people is that when you don’t like it, you say it directly; you don’t hide,” van Leeuwen said. “So we have a rough reputation.”
“海牙人的性格是，当你不喜欢时，要直接说出来，而不是隐瞒，”范利文说。“因此，别人都说我们很粗暴。”
Promise, Then Uncertainty
承诺，然后是不确定性
ADO Den Haag is the only major soccer club in The Hague, a coastal city and the seat of government in the Netherlands. ADO Den Haag — in Dutch, ADO is an acronym for “everything through practice” — came to represent the city’s large working-class population. The club enjoyed little success in the postwar era and instead gained notoriety for a following that included some of Europe’s toughest hooligans.
海滨城市海牙是荷兰政治重镇，而海牙足球俱乐部是海牙唯一的大型足球俱乐部。在荷兰语中，ADO Den Haag中的ADO是是“一切经过实践”的缩写，这支球队代表的是该市大量的工薪阶层人口。该俱乐部在战后未有什么大的成就，反而因支持者中有欧洲一些最粗暴的足球流氓而得到了恶名。
“It was always a midtable club, but a good club, good young players coming from The Hague,” said Dick Advocaat, a former coach of the Dutch national team who began his playing career at ADO.
“海牙一直是一家中游俱乐部，但也是一家好俱乐部，能培养出优秀的年轻球员，”荷兰国家队前主教练迪克·艾德沃卡特(Dick Advocaat)说道，他的球员生涯始于海牙。
Enter Wang, a wealthy, Beijing-based businessman whose marketing company, United Vansen International Sports, helped organize the closing ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Last year, he bought a 98 percent stake in ADO for a reported $8.9 million and announced his intention to take the club into European competition while sending Dutch coaches from the club to China to improve young players there.
王辉是一位富裕的北京商人，他的营销公司北京合力万盛国际体育发展有限公司参与了2008年北京奥运会闭幕式的筹办工作。去年，他购买了海牙俱乐部98%的股份，据报道价格为890万美元。他声称打算把俱乐部带进欧洲赛场，同时从俱乐部派遣荷兰教练前往中国，以提高那里年轻球员的水平。
“At the time, we had a clear preference this was sold to local businessmen,” said Tom de Bruijn, a politician who sits on The Hague’s municipal executive committee and was close to the deal.
“当时我们态度很明确，希望将俱乐部出售给当地商人，”海牙市执行委员会成员、了解该交易内情的汤姆·德布鲁因(Tom de Bruijn)说。
The municipality owns Kyocera Stadium and had a so-called golden share in the club, meaning it could block any purchase on one condition: that the club find another buyer willing to pay the same price for the shares.
市政当局拥有京瓷体育馆，而且在俱乐部中还拥有所谓的黄金股，意思是它可以在一个条件下阻止任何购买：即俱乐部能找到另一位愿意为这些股份支付相同价款的买家。
But no local investors came forward, and after verifying that Wang’s finances were legitimate, the club was sold.
但本地投资者没有出面，而在验证王辉先生的资金来源是合法的之后，俱乐部被出售了。
“I had a good impression when I spoke to him,” de Bruijn said.
“跟他说话时，他给我留下了很好的印象，”德布鲁因说。
Despite the agreement, it took months for the money to materialize. When it did, a period of optimism followed. Further investments were made, and expensive new players were acquired, including the Dutch-Japanese striker Mike Havenaar, and Wang was seen at several matches. When the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, visited China with a trade delegation, Wang presented him with a green and gold ADO shirt. (Rutte took it with good humor when he noticed his name was written as “Rutten” on the back.)
尽管达成了协议，但资金到位也花了几个月的时间。当资金到位后，人们的乐观情绪维持了一段时间。进一步投资陆续到位，并收购了身价高昂的新球员，包括荷兰裔日本前锋麦克·哈维纳尔(Mike Havenaar)，而王辉也多次现身观看比赛。当荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)携贸易代表团到访中国时，王辉送了他一件金绿色ADO海牙球衣。（吕特看到球衣背后的名字印成了“Rutten”，但仍欣然接受了这份好意。）
While a handful of ADO coaches went to Beijing to coach at the former school of China’s president, Xi Jinping, an avid soccer fan, the former Chinese national team coach Gao Hongbo was unveiled as an ADO assistant coach. Gao’s move soon caused tension: After every game, ADO’s incumbent coach, Henk Fraser, was asked by reporters whether he was about to be replaced.
几位ADO海牙教练去了北京，在中国国家主席习近平——一位狂热的足球球迷——曾就读的学校执教，而前中国国家队主帅高洪波也作为海牙俱乐部的助理教练亮相。高洪波的举动很快引起了紧张：每场比赛结束后，海牙的现任教练亨克·弗雷泽(Henk Fraser)都会被记者问到他是否即将被取代。
“To be honest, I spoke to him occasionally,” Fraser said of Gao. “But he is not part of my training staff.”
“说实话，我偶尔会跟他交流，”弗雷泽在谈到高洪波时说道。“但他不是我训练团队的一员。”
Fraser added: “He was here to get the Dutch way of working. Most of the time, he was upstairs in one of the units watching the way we train.”
弗雷泽补充说：“他到这里来了解荷兰的训练方式。大多数时候，他都在楼上一个单元内观看我们训练。”
When Fraser was asked about Wang, the club ended the interview.
当有人问及弗雷泽对王辉的看法时，俱乐部结束了采访。
The greatest tensions, though, were related to finances. Deadlines for Wang to make a further $4.1 million investment in the club in September and November were missed. More important, the club was forced to admit that it had not been able to speak with Wang.
但最令人不安的是资金问题。王辉没有按时在9月及11月追加410万美元的投资。更重要的是，俱乐部被迫承认自己无法跟王辉取得联系。
A third deadline, Dec. 18, had been agreed upon for the money, shortly after a league match against Willem II, but that, too, passed without payment.
在与威廉二世足球俱乐部(Willem II)踢完一场联赛后不久，俱乐部确定了第三个最后期限12月18日，但王辉还是没有按时付款。
The uncertainty has left many people in the city unhappy, not least Advocaat, who had called for the Chinese influence in ADO to come to an end.
这种不确定性令海牙的很多人感到不高兴，尤其是艾德沃卡特，他曾呼吁ADO海牙摆脱中国的影响。
“He had some good ideas, but you’ve got to do it,” said Advocaat, who acknowledged that he had discussed taking an advisory role at the club with Wang. “But now he is not paying the money. That is why I said people from Den Haag should take over.”
“他有一些好想法，但他得付诸行动，”艾德沃卡特说。“但他现在不提供资金了。这就是我认为来自海牙的人应该接管俱乐部的原因。”艾德沃卡特承认，他曾与王辉讨论过担任俱乐部顾问的问题。
Offering Assurances 
提供保证
On the 22nd floor of a building in downtown Beijing, Wang keeps a small green and yellow ADO Den Haag pennant pinned to his bookcase. He was not hard to locate, and he quickly agreed to an interview.
在位于北京市中心一座写字楼22层的办公室里，王辉将一面ADO海牙黄绿色的小锦旗固定在书架上。找到他并不难，而且他很快同意接受采访。
Wang maintained that his plans for revitalizing ADO remain unchanged. He promised that he still had the best intentions for the club and that the $4.1 million would be paid.
王辉坚称他重振ADO海牙的计划没有改变。他承诺自己对俱乐部没有不怀好意，并将支付410万美元的资金。
“I hope that ADO can get in to the top five clubs in Eredivisie in three years — that’s my goal,” he said. “To achieve this goal, we can invest more money and do whatever necessary.”
“我希望ADO海牙能在未来三年跻身荷甲前五，这是我的目标，”他说。“为了实现这个目标，我们可以投入更多资金，并采取任何必要的举措。”
Wang also partly blamed cultural differences for the current tension — “In The Hague,” Advocaat said of the forthright attitude of city’s populace, “black is black, and white is white” — as well as ADO’s modest start to the season.
王辉还将目前的紧张事态部分归咎于文化差异——“在海牙，”艾德沃卡特提到海牙民众的直率态度时说，“黑就是黑，白就是白”——及该球队在本赛季差强人意的起步。
“The club thinks in a very simple way, ‘You’ve said you will invest, so you should invest,’ ” Wang said. “But they are intervening the boss’s decision-making process. You can offer suggestions. But now the circumstances are different, and I need to adjust my strategy.”
“这个俱乐部的思维方式非常简单，‘你说过你会投资，那你就应该投资，’”王辉说。“但他们在干涉老板的决策过程。你可以提建议。但现在情况不同了，我需要调整策略。”
When asked specifically about the missed payments, Wang said the money was “not a promise because I don’t need to promise anything to anyone in terms of investing more money into my own club.”
当被问及没有按时提供资金的具体问题时，王辉表示，这些钱不是“一种承诺，因为在向我自己的俱乐部投入更多资金的问题上，我不需要向任何人承诺任何事情”。
He added, “But as long as you want to do better and you don’t have enough money to do so, of course I’m willing to help.”
他还表示，“但如果你想做得更好，而你没有足够的资金实现目标，我当然愿意提供帮助。”
Back in The Hague, there were no banners or chants against Wang in the stands before Dutch soccer’s holiday break. Before the game against Willem II, van Leeuwen, on behalf of the supporters, wrote an open letter to Wang asking for a meeting and promising that the fans would give Wang time to prove his intentions.
回到海牙，荷兰的足球比赛马上会因节日而暂停，此时看台上没有针对王辉的条幅，也没有人大声抗议。在ADO海牙与威廉二世俱乐部那场比赛举行之前，范利文代表球迷给王辉写了一封公开信，要求和他见面，并承诺荷兰球迷会给王辉时间，让他证明自己的意图。
“Now everyone is very quiet because you can say everything about the Chinese but then you make him angry,” van Leeuwen said.
“现在大家都很安静，因为但凡你说中国人点什么，都有可能会惹怒他，”范利文说。
Still, the Dec. 18 deadline came and went. The money was not paid, and Wang did not visit the club, saying he had canceled because of an important meeting with the Chinese Football Association. A spokesman for the club said Sunday that the money had not arrived but that the club was hopeful it would on Tuesday.
但是，12月18日的期限到来了，然后又过去了。钱还是没到账，王辉也没有来到俱乐部访问，他说之所以取消会面，是因为要参加中国足协的一个重要会议。ADO海牙俱乐部的一名发言人周日表示，资金目前还没到，但他们觉得周二有可能会收到。
The spokesman, who said the club hoped Wang might come in January, also said that he “had seen documents that prove the money is on the way — that has rebuilt trust.”
这名发言人表示，俱乐部希望王辉能在1月份来海牙，还表示他“已经看到了一些文件，证明资金正在到位”，这让他们“重新建立起了信任”。
The holiday break is giving ADO time to sort out the situation, but the fans will not wait forever. The first game after the break, on Jan. 17, will be the biggest derby of ADO’s season, against first-place Ajax.
节日期间比赛中断，让ADO海牙俱乐部有时间把目前的状况理出头绪。但球迷们不会一直等下去。节后将于1月17日举行的第一场比赛，将是ADO海牙这一赛季最重要的一场，对手是排名第一的阿贾克斯俱乐部。
“If the money isn’t there by then, I think you will see banners,” van Leeuwen said. “And then there will be a problem.”
“如果到时候资金还不到位，我想你就看到条幅了，”范利文说。“到时候就不好办了。”