When it comes to providing the experience of a home away from home, very little can go a very long way.
在远离家乡的地方提供家一般的体验，极少有人能做得非常好。
LONDON From its improbable timber perch above the River Thames, A Room for London, Living Architecture’s bookable, one-bedroom “boat,” offers unparalleled city views. It’s equipped with a small kitchenette containing David Mellor dishware, a library filled with travel-centric titles (including a few versions of Joseph Conrad’s “Heart of Darkness,” the project’s inspiration) and a logbook that reads like a who’s who of international culture. The musician Imogen Heap wrote and performed a song onboard, and the Scottish poet Ryan Van Winkle will host one-on-one readings there in July. From $500 per night.
伦敦：不可思议的伦敦一间房(A Room for London)是光影建筑科技公司(Living Architecture)接受预订的一个卧室木头“小船”，它栖息在泰晤士河上，你可以在上面看到无与伦比的城市风光。船上有个小厨房，里面有大卫·梅勒(David Mellor)牌餐具，还有个图书馆，里面放着以旅游为主题的图书（包括约瑟夫·康拉德[Joseph Conrad]的《黑暗之心》[Heart of Darkness]，有若干版本，这个项目就是以这本书为灵感的），还有一本航行日志，它读起来像世界文化名人录。音乐家伊莫金·希普(Imogen Heap)曾在船上谱写并演唱了一首歌，苏格兰诗人赖安·范·温克尔(Ryan Van Winkle)将于7月份在船上举办一对一读书会。每晚500美元起。
SHANGHAI Tucked away in a former police headquarters in the bustling Jing’an district, D.R.Home is a minimalist’s dream: an airy 2,153-square-foot suite outfitted with antique candelabras, a Philipp Mainzer bed and an iconic BD Barcelona table. The colonial red-brick building, extended with glass and steel, also houses shops and a buzzy tapas bar designed by the Chinese architecture duo Neri & Hu. The room is typically reserved for events, but can be booked for private occasions. Upon waking up, a resident chef will come and cook breakfast. From $8,195 per night.
上海：设计共和之家(D.R.Home)位于热闹的静安区的一个曾经的警察总局里，它是极简主义者的梦想所在：这个套房很宽敞，有2153平方英尺，装备有古董枝形烛台，菲利普·迈因策尔(Philipp Mainzer)睡床以及标志性的BD巴塞罗那餐桌。这个殖民时代的红砖房用玻璃和钢筋进行了扩建，容纳了几个商店和一个具有现代感的小吃吧，设计师是中国的建筑设计二人组合郭锡恩先生和胡如珊小姐。这个房间主要供举办活动之用，但也接受私人预订。醒来后，常驻大厨会来做早饭。每晚8195美元起。
COPENHAGEN Between its two floors in the hip Vesterbro district, each measuring a mere 130 square feet, the Central Hotel & Cafe encapsulates the uniquely Danish concept of hygge (loose translation: coziness). The hotel’s only room was originally built in 1920 as a shoemaker’s garret — his workshop has since been reborn as a five-seat bistro at ground level — and while it opened last summer equipped with a flat-screen TV, a minibar and an iPhone, its charm lies in the old-meets-new details. Its co-owner, the former film set designer Leif Thingtved, handcrafted the furnishings from salvaged oak, adding vintage English wallpaper along with locally made Geismars linens. From $330 per night.
哥本哈根：在时尚的韦斯特伯区，中央旅馆&咖啡馆(Central Hotel & Cafe)把丹麦对舒适这个概念的独特理解涵盖在一个两层楼里，每层只有130平方英尺。这个旅馆唯一的房间始建于1920年，最初是鞋匠的阁楼，他的工作室后来变成了底层的一个有五个座位的小酒馆。去年夏天开业时，新装了一个平板电视、一个迷你酒吧和一部iPhone，它的魅力在于这些新旧结合的细节。它的共同所有人、前电影布景设计师列夫·斯格韦德(Leif Thingtved)用回收橡木手工制作了家具，还加入了复古英式壁纸和当地生产的亚麻木。每晚330美元起。
PRAGUE A Communist-era TV tower isn’t the likeliest site for an exclusive lodging, but that’s precisely what the One Room Hotel, by Tower Park Praha, has become: a spacious, concrete-and-steel cabin fitted out with Vitra furniture and a Philippe Starck tub that hovers 230 feet above the City of a Thousand Spires. Floor-to-ceiling windows? Twenty-four-hour butler service? A bottle of Moët upon arrival? Check, check and cheers. When the complimentary minibar doesn’t cut it, there’s room service from Oblaca restaurant, serving upscale Czech food one level down. For those enticed by the bird’s-eye vista, a chauffeur-driven Mercedes-Benz CLS comes with the package. From $900 per night.
布拉格：共产主义时代的电视塔不大像是一个独特的旅馆的所在地，但是布拉格电视塔的一个房间旅馆(One Room Hotel)就是这样一个所在：它是一个宽敞的钢筋混凝土小屋，里面有维特拉(Vitra)牌家具和菲利普·斯塔克(Philippe Starck)牌浴缸，雄踞在这座千塔之城230英尺的上空。从地板到天花板的窗户？24小时管家服务？刚到达就奉上酩悦葡萄酒？一堆账单能换来很多欢乐。如果附赠的迷你酒吧还不能满足你，那还有来自Oblaca餐馆的送餐服务，这家餐馆就在楼下，供应高档捷克美食。那些被美景吸引来的人还能获赠奔驰CLS接送。每晚900美元起。