When the pop music star Taylor Swift publicly criticized Apple’s royalty payment plans recently, government regulators that had been investigating the company for various other reasons might have thought: Get in line.
最近，当流行音乐明星泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)公开批评苹果(Apple)的版税政策时，出于许多其他原因在对该公司进行调查的政府监管机构可能在想：我们也有意见。
In the last few years, Apple has become the most valuable company in the world as well as one of the most scrutinized. Officials in Europe and the United States are looking into Apple’s deals with music labels for possible antitrust violations.
过去几年，苹果成了世界上最值钱的企业，也吸引了最多审视的目光。欧洲和美国的官员都在调查苹果与各音乐公司的交易，看公司是否存在反垄断方面的违法行为。
But as Apple prepares to start its long-anticipated subscription streaming music service on Tuesday, few marketing experts expect the scuffle with Ms. Swift to leave any scars. Instead, they think it turned out to be remarkably good publicity.
不过，在苹果准备于周二启动备受期待的流媒体音乐订阅服务之际，市场专家认为公司与斯威夫特的冲突不会造成负面影响。相反，他们认为此事将变成一次非常好的宣传。
“I don’t think the episode has damaged their brand at all,” said Jordan Cohen, the chief marketing officer of Fluent, a consumer marketing firm. “More than anything, it served to shine a huge spotlight on its newest offering with a week to go until launch.”
“我完全不认为这件事会损坏他们的品牌形象，”消费者营销公司Fluent的首席营销官乔丹·科恩(Jordan Cohen)说。“在公司的最新产品面市前的一周，它将使这种产品受到巨大关注，其影响将超过其他所有事情。”
The new Apple Music service has the potential over the next two years to draw 100 million subscribers, according to Jan Dawson, an independent technology analyst for Jackdaw Research. That would more than double the combined 41 million paid subscriptions to all of the current music streaming services last year, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a trade group in London, estimates.
穴鸟研究公司(Jackdaw Research)的独立科技分析师简·道森(Jan Dawson)认为，苹果的这项新音乐服务将有望在接下来两年吸引1亿名订阅用户。据设在伦敦的行业组织国际唱片业协会(International Federation of the Phonographic Industry)估计，目前已有的音乐流服务在去年的订阅用户加起来为4100万，不到苹果这一预期数字的二分之一。
Skating past controversy has become an important skill for Apple in recent years, and the company’s quick response to Ms. Swift’s public letter offers a window into how the Silicon Valley giant responds to criticism.
近年来，迅速消除争议已经成了苹果的一项重要技能，而公司对斯威夫特的公开信的迅速回应，也让人得以一窥这个硅谷巨头如何应对批评。
As long as iPhones and Macs are flying off the shelves, analysts and marketing experts say, Apple has little reason to listen to its critics — except when they are the rare few like Ms. Swift that can have a direct impact on its sales.
分析师和营销专家称，只要iPhone和Mac电脑的销售势头仍然强劲，苹果就没什么理由要去倾听批评声——除非批评它的是像斯威夫特这种极少数会对公司销售额造成直接影响的人。
“What she says is gold, and at this point she has managed to attain so much brand power that it’s hard for even companies like Apple to not pay attention,” said Erik Ashdown a founder of Indiloop, a music creation service.
音乐制作服务公司Indiloop的创始人埃里克·阿什当(Erik Ashdown)表示，“她说的话是金科玉律，而且她现在已经拥有非常强大的品牌力量，就连苹果这样的企业都不得不重视。”
In her open letter, titled “To Apple, Love Taylor,” Ms. Swift said she was withholding her latest album from Apple Music because artists like her were unhappy with the company’s decision to skip paying royalties to musicians during the three-month free trial of the new music service.
斯威夫特在她题为《致苹果公司，爱你的泰勒》(To Apple, Love Taylor)的公开信中称，她将暂时停止通过Apple Music来发布自己的最新专辑，因为苹果拒绝在其新音乐服务的三个月试用期间支付版税，这让她这样的艺人感到不满。
Within a day, Apple’s head of online services, Eddy Cue, said on his Twitter account that musicians would be paid during the three-month trial. “We hear you @taylorswift13 and indie artists. Love, Apple,” he wrote.
当天，苹果的互联网服务负责人艾迪·库伊(Eddy Cue)就在自己的Twitter账户上表示，公司将在为期三个月的试用期间向音乐人支付版税。他写道，“我们听到了你@taylorswift13和独立艺术家们的心声。爱你的苹果。”
Government regulators might be chagrined to realize that a 25-year-old musician had better luck curbing Apple’s behavior than they have had.
政府监管机构或许会失望地意识到，这名25岁的音乐人，比它们更有机会遏制苹果的行为。
Apple, which is based in Cupertino, Calif., continues to fight a federal judge’s 2013 decision that it conspired with book publishers to raise e-book prices. Apple continues to appeal the decision, and it has also been resistant to cooperating with a lawyer that the court appointed to monitor its operations to ensure compliance with antitrust laws.
设在加利福尼亚州库比提诺的苹果，至今仍在就2013年一名联邦法官做出的判决进行申诉。该判决认为苹果曾通过与图书出版商进行暗中合作来抬高电子书的价格。苹果仍然在对这一决定提起上诉，而且它还拒绝与一名法院派来的律师进行合作。这名律师的任务是监督其活动，以确保其行为符合反垄断法。
More recently, in Europe and the United States, antitrust regulators opened investigations into Apple Music. They are trying to find out whether Apple pressured music labels — or whether labels conspired with Apple and one another — to withdraw support for popular “freemium” services offered by companies like Spotify in favor of Apple’s paid music subscriptions.
最近，欧洲和美国的反垄断监管机构开始对Apple Music展开调查。他们试图查明苹果是否曾强迫音乐公司——或者这些公司是否曾与苹果或其他音乐公司开展暗中合作——停止支持Spotify等公司所提供的备受欢迎的“免费增值”服务，转而支持苹果的付费音乐订阅服务。
So far, the antitrust investigations into Apple Music have not produced evidence of collusion. This month, the Universal Music Group said in a letter to the state attorneys general of New York and Connecticut that it had no agreements with Apple that would impede the availability of free or ad-supported services.
目前，针对Apple Music的反垄断调查还没有找到关于暗中勾结的证据。本月，环球唱片(Universal Music Group)在给纽约州和康涅狄格州检察长的一封信中说，它并未与苹果达成任何可能损害免费或广告支持服务可用性的协议。
But if consumers are weighing in with their wallets, they have shown complete indifference to the regulatory issues. In the fiscal second quarter, sales of iPhones were up 40 percent year over year, and sales of Mac computers were up 10 percent year over year. The company has accumulated more than $193.5 billion in cash.
但是，如果说消费者是在用钱包表态，他们对监管问题则表现得完全不在意。第二财季，iPhone销量同比增加40%，Mac电脑的销量同比增加10%。公司积累了1935亿美元（约合1.2万亿元人民币）现金。
“When you think Apple, you think very easy to use and great experience,” said Greg Portell, a partner of A. T. Kearney, a global management consulting firm. “If you have product quality issues, that’s when things start to stumble.”
“想到苹果时，你会想到它十分便于使用，体验极佳，” 全球管理咨询公司A.T. Kearney的合伙人格雷格·波尔特尔(Greg Portell)说。“如果产品质量有问题，事情才会变得棘手。”
But Apple has in fact had product missteps in recent years. The iPhone took a hit in 2010 when a design flaw on the iPhone 4 — called Antennagate by the tech press — caused cellphone reception to be lost for some users when the handset was firmly gripped.
不过近年来，苹果其实也在产品方面出现过失误。2010年，iPhone 4的一个设计缺陷——被技术媒体称为“天线门”(Antennagate)——使公司受到了打击。这个缺陷是，当用户紧握手机时，有些手机可能会失去信号。
The long-term impact? No harm done yet. In fact, iPhone sales kept growing.
有什么长期影响？目前还没造成什么损失。实际上，iPhone的销量仍在继续增加。
The public reaction to Apple Music will be a test. One challenge in releasing Apple Music, music executives said, will be retaining the simple concept of the original iTunes store — every song cost 99 cents to download — which has helped turn it into the world’s largest music retailer and a vital source of revenue for the industry.
公众对Apple Music的反应将是一次考验。管理音乐的高管称，发行Apple Music的一个挑战将是维持最初iTunes store的简单理念——每首歌的下载只需99美分。这个理念使iTunes store成了世界上最大的音乐零售商，也是该行业的一个主要收入来源。
Apple Music, on the other hand, combines a range of features that underscore how complex online music has become. It has a subscription streaming service like Spotify; a media platform that has been compared to SoundCloud, which lets people freely upload and stream any kind of audio; and radio features that will compete with Internet and satellite services like Pandora and Sirius XM.
另一方面，Apple Music融合了一系列突显网络音乐的复杂性的功能。它拥有一个与Spotify类似的流媒体订阅服务；一个被拿来与SoundCloud相提并论的媒体平台——可以通过它上传和流播放任何格式的音频；此外，它还拥有能与Pandora和天狼星电台(Sirius XM)等网络和卫星服务相抗衡的电台功能。