For many designers, the chair is the ultimate challenge, the tabula rasa on which they aspire to make their creative mark. Not for Brad Ascalon.
对于许多设计者而言，座椅类的家具是一项终极挑战，也是他们渴望施展自己创作才华的一张白纸。但是对于布拉德·阿斯卡隆(Brad Ascalon)来说，情况却有所不同。
Mr. Ascalon, 37, is a product designer with an impressive portfolio of work to his name — lighting, seating, storage. But there is one piece of furniture he is particularly drawn to: the coffee table.
今年37岁的阿斯卡隆是一位产品设计师，他名下的设计作品多得令人惊叹，其中包括了照明、座椅及存储类家具。但有一件家具，对他来说尤其具有吸引力：咖啡桌。
“With tables you have a little more leeway to create something beautiful without the limitations of ergonomics,” he said. “You get to make them an exclamation point.”
“这类桌子让你有更多余地去创造美丽的东西，而不用局限于人体工程学的要求，”他说。“你得让这些桌子有令人惊奇的地方。”
One of his first major table commissions was the 2008 Spindle for Ligne Roset, and since then he has produced one after another, in a variety of shapes, styles and materials. Recent examples include two faceted tables for Holly Hunt and a round one with multiple tops for Design Within Reach. All three are walnut, Mr. Ascalon’s material of choice, because “it’s the most beautiful, natural and sustainably harvested American wood,” he said.
在他最初设计过的几款重要桌型中，有一款就是为Ligne Roset公司做的2008 Spindle咖啡桌。此后，他便一个接一个地开始设计咖啡桌，尝试过各种形状、风格与材料。最近的例子包括他为Holly Hunt公司设计的两张带有多个立面的边桌，和为Design Within Reach公司设计的一张有多层桌面的圆桌。这三张桌子用的都是胡桃木，这种木材是阿斯卡隆的首选材料，因为“这是最天然、最美丽、而且产量最丰富的一种美洲木材。”他说。
“I was always taught to respect traditional materials,” he said, crediting his sense of materiality to his father, David Ascalon, an artist whose site-specific installations are often architecturally inspired. “I grew up around metals and glass. My father’s studio never used synthetic materials.”
“我从一开始接受的教育就是要尊重传统材料，”他将自己重视设计材料的意识归功于他的父亲戴维·阿斯卡隆(David Ascalon)，这位艺术家为特定环境所创作的雕塑作品，其灵感常常来自于建筑设计。“我从小就在满是玻璃与金属的环境中长大，我父亲的工作室里从来不使用合成材料。”
At the Cappellini showroom in SoHo, Mr. Ascalon pointed out the clever design of the Peg tables from Nendo, a Japanese studio. “They’re very simple,” he said, showing a reporter how the joinery was concealed. “The top’s surface is broken up a little bit to add some negative space.”
在SoHo区Cappellini商店的陈列室中，阿斯卡隆指出了日本Nendo工作室那几张Peg系列桌子所具有的灵巧设计。“这些桌子非常简单，”说着，他为记者展示了这件细木制品是怎样收纳的，“桌面上设计了一条细缝，增加了一些负空间（negative space，指物体和物体的间隙——译注）。”
At Cassina, he praised the “great balance of materiality” in Luca Nichetto’s Torei collection, more than a dozen tables in different shapes and sizes that can be mixed and matched with tops in ash and marble. “It’s almost a sculpture that you create on your own,” he said.
在Cassina商店，他称赞设计师卢卡·尼切托(Luca Nichetto)的Torei系列是“伟大的物质性平衡”。该系列当中的十多张桌子具有不同的形状和大小，可以与灰色或大理石的饰面任意混合或搭配。“这几乎是由你自己创作出来的一件雕塑品。”他说。
He’s starting to see a lot of this: mixing and matching components to create a personalized piece of furniture. Another favorite of his, the Range Life II table by Jonah Takagi, for instance, is made up of a cluster of distinctive smaller tables. At more than $6,000, it isn’t cheap, he said, but: “It’s such an unusual piece. It feels like a piece of micro-architecture.”
他开始浏览更多这样的作品：用可以混合或搭配的组件来创造一种具有个人风格的家具。他喜欢的另一款作品，比如由约拿·塔卡西设计的这款Range Life II桌子，就是由一组与众不同的小桌子组成的。超过6000美元（约合人民币36941元）的售价不能算便宜，他说，但“这是一件非常出众的作品，感觉就像一座微型建筑物。”
Online, he found more-affordable options like the Lollygagger table from Loll Designs ($268), which comes in a range of colors. And if your budget is even tighter than that, he said, D.I.Y. is always an option — and not one that he, as a designer, looks down on.
在网上，他找到了一些更经济实惠的选择，比如Loll Design公司的这款Lollygagger桌子（售价268美元[约合人民币1650元]），有一系列颜色可选。如果你的预算仍然不够，他说，DIY永远都是个不错的选择——而且作为一名设计师，对这样的选择他也并不鄙夷。