The Chevrolet Cobalt is in many ways the perfect representation of the bad, old days of General Motors, when quality didn’t much matter, market share was more important than profitability, and financial decisions came before design and even safety decisions.
雪佛兰(Chevrolet)的Cobalt车型从很多方面看都绝好地象征了通用汽车(General Motors)糟糕的旧时代：质量不怎么重要；市场份额比盈利更重要；财务决策比设计决策更重要，甚至优先于安全决策。
First manufactured in 2004, the car was a clunker from the start. “Owners complained about power steering failures, locks inexplicably opening and closing, doors jamming shut in the rain — even windows falling out,” according to Danielle Ivory and Rebecca R. Ruiz, writing in The Times last week.
这款汽车最初产于2004年，一开始就遇到了麻烦。“车主抱怨助力转向失灵，车锁会原因不明地开闭，车门在雨中会锁死无法打开，甚至车窗都会脱落，”丹尼埃尔·艾弗里(Danielle Ivory)和丽贝卡·R·鲁伊兹(Rebecca R. Ruiz)上周在《纽约时报》上写道。
And then there was the ignition defect that could cause the power to shut down, which led to a huge recall two months ago — and has spiraled the company into crisis. The more we learn about it — and with a handful of investigations underway, there is much that is not yet known — the worse G.M. looks.
之后还有点火开关故障，这个问题会导致引擎关闭，失去动力。这也引发了两个月前的一次大规模召回，让这家公司陷入了危机。我们对该事件了解越多，通用的形象就越糟糕。目前有几项调查正在进行当中，还有很多情节尚不为人知。
The company apparently knew about the defect as far back as 2001, when it discovered the problem during testing of the Saturn Ion. It saw the problem again in 2004, as the Cobalt was about to be rolled out with the same ignition system. According to documents obtained in congressional investigations, engineers came up with a proposed fix, but it was nixed on the grounds that it was too expensive and would take too much time.
该公司似乎早在2001年就了解了这一缺陷，通用汽车当时在测试土星(Saturn Ion)车型时，就发现了这个问题。2004年，配有相同点火系统的Cobalt车型即将面市时，通用再次看到了这个问题。国会调查中取得的文件显示，工程师提出了一种补救措施，但提议遭到否决，理由是成本过高，而且会花费太多时间。
Finally, in 2006, engineers at General Motors appeared to have fixed the problem, but they did so without changing the part number, which is a shocking violation of engineering protocol, wrote Micheline Maynard at Forbes.com. It makes G.M. appear to have been engaged in subterfuge, hiding the fact that its ignition had been defective all those years.
最后，在2006年，通用汽车的工程师们似乎解决了这个问题，但是他们并没有更改部件编号，这种违反工程规程做法令人震惊，米其琳·梅纳德(Micheline Maynard)在《福布斯》网站(Forbes.com)上写道。这种举动显得通用仿佛是在耍花招，遮掩其点火装置多年来一直存在故障的事实。
Meanwhile, at least 13 people died in accidents that were clearly the result of the faulty ignition design. There are also another 140 people who died in accidents involving the Cobalt in which the cause is unknown. Yet for more than a decade, General Motors did nothing.
与此同时，在确信由点火装置故障造成的事故中，已经至少造成了13人死亡。另有140人在涉及Cobalt车型的其他事故中死亡，但事故原因尚不明确。然而在超过十年的时间里，通用汽车一直无动于衷。
What makes this a particularly difficult crisis for G.M. is that it comes at a time when the company is trying to prove to the world that the old G.M. is dead. With a new chief executive in Mary Barra, 52, and a handful of newly designed cars, G.M. wants the world to believe that it has emerged from its bankruptcy as a smarter, nimbler, more transparent company. And maybe it has. But the Cobalt fiasco does not instill confidence; rather, it reminds people why General Motors had to be saved by the government in the first place.
对于通用汽车，这个事件之所以成为了一场尤为艰难的危机，是因为此时这家公司正试图努力证明，老的通用汽车已经不复存在。通用委任了新CEO，52岁的玛丽·巴拉(Mary Barra)，推出了几款新设计的汽车。该公司希望让全世界相信，它走出了破产阴影，成为了一家更明智、更敏捷，也更透明的公司。或许的确如此，但Cobalt车型的烂摊子不仅不能让人产生信心，反而让人们回想起为什么通用汽车当年需要政府挽救。
On the one hand, Barra has met with the families of people who were killed in Cobalt accidents, something the old management would never have done. She has also hired Kenneth Feinberg, who has become famous for parceling out money to victims of 9/11 and the BP oil spill. He has been brought on to help the company figure out how to compensate victims and their families — a tricky bit of business since the company is legally off the hook for any accidents that took place prior to the 2009 bankruptcy. Of the many investigations into the Cobalt, one has been ordered by Barra herself, an internal review aimed at, among other things, answering the question of why General Motors took so long to order a recall. These are all gestures aimed at reinforcing the idea that this G.M. is a different kind of company.
另一方面，巴拉与Cobalt事故中丧生者的家人进行了会面，该公司旧的管理层永远不会做这样的事情。她还聘请了肯尼思·芬堡(Kenneth Feinberg)。芬堡之所以为人熟知，是因为他曾为9·11事件和BP漏油事件的受害者分发补偿金。通用汽车聘请他是为了帮助该公司确定，该如何赔偿受害者及其家属。这个问题有些棘手，因为法律上这家公司已经不必为2009年破产之前发生的任何事故负责。在对Cobalt车型开展的多项调查中，有一项是巴拉本人下令进行的。这项内部审查有若干目的，其中一个是解答为什么通用汽车用了这么久才下令召回。所有这些姿态的目的都是为了强化的通用汽车已经改头换面的印象。
On the other hand, Barra was forced to acknowledge before Congress that she hadn’t even known about the problem until the end of January — just a few weeks after she became the chief executive — when she was informed that the company planned a recall. She told Congress that General Motors was a place that had “silos,” and that information was too often not shared. She said so little of substance during her two days of congressional testimony last week that she came across as stonewalling at times. Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri, accused her of presiding over “a culture of cover-up.” These are the kinds of moments that make you wonder if General Motors really has changed.
另一方面，巴拉被迫在国会面前承认，她直到1月底才知道这些问题，当时她被告知公司计划展开召回。这时距离她担任CEO才过去几个星期。她对国会表示，通用汽车是一个“条块分割”很严重的地方，有太多时候人们不会分享信息。上周，在为期两天的国会听证会上，她说出的实质内容太少，以至于时不时会显得像是在搪塞。密苏里州民主党参议员克莱尔·麦卡斯基尔(Claire McCaskill)指责她领导着一种“掩盖的文化”。正是这样的时刻会让你怀疑，通用汽车到底变了没有。
The Cobalt crisis will eventually fade. Feinberg will figure out how to pay victims. Plaintiffs’ lawyers will sue and settle. The investigations will be completed and the results announced. Presumably some heads will roll.
Cobalt的危机最终会淡去。芬堡会确定该如何补偿受害者；控方律师会提起诉讼，也会接受和解。调查也会迟早结束，结果会对外公布，估计会有些人受到惩罚。