It started simply enough: Some months ago, I needed to make myself something to eat, and I had a few ounces of leftover scallops from dinner the night before. I remembered something I learned in Madrid called a tortillita, which inspired me to produce a kind of eggy pancake — or, if you like, a floury omelet — laced with shrimp, parsley and onion. I beat together an egg and a little flour until smooth, wanting to thicken the mixture just enough so that it wouldn’t run in the pan. I chopped the scallops and added them to the batter, along with a bit of onion, some parsley, salt and chopped fresh chile, shallow-frying all this by the spoonful in abundant oil. Predictably, the little guys — eight in total — took a couple of minutes per side to become gorgeously golden. I sprinkled them with salt, squeezed a few drops of lemon over each and ate the entire batch by myself, in about the same amount of time they took to cook.
一开始其实很简单：几个月前，我想给自己弄点东西吃，手边正好有几盎司前一晚饭剩的扇贝。我记得在马德里学过一种名叫“托蒂利塔”(tortillita)的薄煎饼，启发我做出了一种混有虾、欧芹和洋葱的鸡蛋煎饼——如果你喜欢，叫它面粉煎蛋饼也可以。我把一个鸡蛋和一点面粉搅匀，浓稠到不至于在煎锅里散开的程度。然后切碎扇贝，放入搅好的蛋糊，再放一点洋葱和欧芹，还有盐和切碎的新鲜辣椒，放入一满匙油中以小火微煎。一共可以做成八个。可想而知，需要花几分钟时间才能把这些小东西两面煎黄。出锅后给它们撒上盐，每个上面都挤上几滴柠檬汁，然后我就自己一个人把它们都吃掉了，吃的时间大概和做的时间一样长。
Thus began my season of tiny pancakes. Recognizing that my batter would support whatever I cared to put in it, and that anything that would cook in five minutes (or that was already cooked) was fair game, I set out to make them with almost every ingredient I could get my hands on. In short, anything will work, although some vegetables or meats are better when precooked.
从那以后我就开始常常做小煎饼。我发现我做的蛋糊可以搭配任何我想放进去的东西，而且所有能在五分钟内做好的东西（或者已经做好的成品）吃起来都不错。我开始用手头所有食材来做煎饼。总之什么都没问题，不过一些蔬菜或肉类先弄熟再煎比较好。 
The batter could hardly be simpler: At first, I followed a formula that combined 3 ounces of, well, whichever ingredients I fancied, with one egg and a couple of tablespoons of flour. Further research showed that a bit of water or other liquid allowed the batter to settle into the skillet and brown better. Eventually, I moved on from fish or vegetables — plus salt, olive oil and lemon — to the more sophisticated combinations to the right, some of which can be served after a meal, as dessert. I have to admit, though, that my favorite teeny pancakes were a variation of my first, with chopped shellfish, oil, lemon and salt. Your preferences may, of course, differ. There are certainly enough options.
蛋糊的做法再简单不过：先是照着这个公式：每三盎司（约合85克——译注）我喜欢的任何辅料搭配一个鸡蛋和两汤匙面粉。经进一步研究，我发现加点水或其他液体可以让蛋糊在煎锅里煎得更好更透。最后，我不再用鱼和蔬菜当配料了（加上盐、橄榄油和柠檬），我开始尝试更复杂的组合，有些可以作为饭后甜点。不过我承认，我最喜欢的还是第一次试着做的那些小煎饼，用切碎的扇贝、油、柠檬和盐做成。你可以根据自己的喜好换花样，选择肯定够多。