Coca-Cola, the world’s largest producer of sugary beverages, is backing a new “science-based” solution to the obesity crisis: To maintain a healthy weight, get more exercise and worry less about cutting calories.
为解决肥胖危机，全球最大的含糖饮料生产商可口可乐公司，正在支持一项新的“科学的”解决方案：要维持健康的体重，就应该多运动，而别老想着减少摄入。
The beverage giant has teamed up with influential scientists who are advancing this message in medical journals, at conferences and through social media. To help the scientists get the word out, Coke has provided financial and logistical support to a new nonprofit organization called the Global Energy Balance Network, which promotes the argument that weight-conscious Americans are overly fixated on how much they eat and drink while not paying enough attention to exercise.
饮料巨头召集了数名负有影响力的科学家成立了一个团队，在医学杂志，会议，以及社交媒体上传递出这个结论。为了让科学家们作出此结论，可口可乐向一家新创立的非盈利性组织“全球热量平衡网”提供资金和数据支持。它提出一个观点认为那些关心自身体重的美国人太过于关注自己吃了多少喝了多少，而对于运动却不够重视。
“Most of the focus in the popular media and in the scientific press is, ‘Oh they’re eating too much, eating too much, eating too much’ — blaming fast food, blaming sugary drinks and so on,” the group’s vice president, Steven N. Blair, an exercise scientist, says in a recent video announcing the new organization. “And there’s really virtually no compelling evidence that that, in fact, is the cause.”
大众媒体和科学杂志大部分都在说“哦，他们吃得太多啦，太多太多啦！”— 责怪快餐，责怪含糖的饮料，等等。团队副主席运动学专家史蒂文布莱尔在最近一次介绍全球热量平衡网的视频中说，“其实真的没有很具说服力的证据表明它们是引起肥胖的原因”。
Health experts say this message is misleading and part of an effort by Coke to deflect criticism about the role sugary drinks have played in the spread of obesity and Type 2 diabetes. They contend that the company is using the new group to convince the public that physical activity can offset a bad diet despite evidence that exercise has only minimal impact on weight compared with what people consume.
健康专家则认为这个结论不仅会误导民众，同时也是可口可乐为了避免针对它在含糖饮料导致肥胖和II-型糖尿病所扮演的角色的批评所做的一种努力。他们认为这家公司在利用新成立的团队让人们相信体育锻炼能抵消不健康饮食，尽管有证据表明相对饮食摄入量，运动对体重的影响微乎其微。
“Coca-Cola’s sales are slipping, and there’s this huge political and public backlash against soda, with every major city trying to do something to curb consumption,” said Michele Simon, a public health lawyer. “This is a direct response to the ways that the company is losing. They’re desperate to stop the bleeding.”
”可口可乐公司的销量在下滑，政治上以及民众中都在反对汽水饮料，每个大城市都在试图减少消耗量”，公众健康律师米歇尔西蒙说，“公司这样做恰恰说明他们正在遭受挫折，他们正竭力挽回损失”
Coke has made a substantial investment in the new nonprofit. In response to requests based on state open-records laws, two universities that employ leaders of the Global Energy Balance Network disclosed that Coke had donated $1.5 million last year to start the organization.
可口可乐为这家新的非盈利性项目已经投入巨资。按照国家档案公开法的要求，两所雇佣了全球热量平衡网的几位带头人的大学所披露，可口可乐为了这家组织的创立捐了150万美元。
Since 2008, the company has also provided close to $4 million in funding for various projects to two of the organization’s founding members: Dr. Blair, a professor at the University of South Carolina whose research over the past 25 years has formed much of the basis of federal guidelines on physical activity, and Gregory A. Hand, dean of the West Virginia University School of Public Health.
2008年以来，公司给组织的两位创始成员提供了将近400万美元以资助各种项目: 一位是布莱尔博士，南卡罗莱纳大学教授，他在过去25年的研究成果已经成为多项联邦体育运动指导意见的基础；另一位则是西弗吉尼亚大学公共健康学院的院长格里高利韩德。
Records show that the network’s website, gebn.org, is registered to Coca-Cola headquarters in Atlanta, and the company is also listed as the site’s administrator. The group’s president, James O. Hill, a professor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, said Coke had registered the website only because the network’s members did not know how.
有记录显示，组织的网站gebn.org注册在可口可乐在亚特兰大的总部名下，可口可乐也是网站的管理者。组织的总裁，科罗拉多大学药学院教授詹姆斯希尔，说由可口可乐来注册这个网址只是因为组织的成员不知如何注册。
“They’re not running the show,” he said. “We’re running the show.”
“这出大戏不是他们在演“他说，”是我们在表演“。
Coca-Cola’s public relations department repeatedly declined requests for an interview with its chief scientific officer, Rhona Applebaum, who has called attention to the new group on Twitter. In a statement, the company said it had a long history of supporting scientific research related to its beverages and topics such as energy balance.
可口可乐公共关系部门几次拒绝了对其首席科学官罗娜艾普鲍姆的采访要求，她曾经在推特上呼吁关注新成立的科学小组，公司在一个声明中说，在很长一段时间以来他们都在支持一个有关其饮料产品以及涉及平衡热量的议题的科学研究。
“We partner with some of the foremost experts in the fields of nutrition and physical activity,” the statement said. “It’s important to us that the researchers we work with share their own views and scientific findings, regardless of the outcome, and are transparent and open about our funding.”
“我们和几位在营养学和体育运动领域最出色的专家合作”声明中说，“对我们来说有一点很重要，那就是与我们合作的研究人员能透明公开得使用我们的资金并共享他们的观点和科学成果，而无需考虑产出效益”。
Control of Message
结论的管控
Dr. Blair and other scientists affiliated with the group said that Coke had no control over its work or message and that they saw no problem with the company’s support because they had been transparent about it.
布莱尔博士及团队里的科学家说，可口可乐公司没有干涉他们的工作及结论，而且他们也不会因公司的支持而受影响，因为他们的工作完全是可见透明的。
But as of last week, the group’s Twitter and Facebook pages, which promote physical activity as a solution to chronic disease and obesity while remaining largely silent on the role of food and nutrition, made no mention of Coca-Cola’s financial support. So far, the social media campaign has failed to gain much traction: As of Friday, the group had fewer than 1,000 followers on Twitter.
但直到上个礼拜，一直提倡用运动来解决慢性病和肥胖问题而只字不提食物和营养所扮演角色的团队的推特和联簿账户，完全不提可口可乐的资金支持。到目前为止，这些社交媒体的造势并未获得足够关注，截至礼拜五，推特账户只有不到1000个关注者。
The group’s website also omitted mention of Coke’s backing until Dr. Yoni Freedhoff, an obesity expert at the University of Ottawa, wrote to the organization to inquire about its funding. Dr. Blair said this was an oversight that had been quickly corrected.
他们的网站上也没有提到他们有可口可乐的背景，直到渥太华大学的肥胖专家尤尼弗利霍夫博士给他们写信要求他们公开资金。布莱尔博士说这只是一个很快就纠正的错误。
“As soon as we discovered that we didn’t have not only Coca-Cola but other funding sources on the website, we put it on there,” Dr. Blair said. “Does that make us totally corrupt in everything we do?”
“一旦我们发现除了可口可乐，我们还有别的资金资助网站，我们就会把它放在网上“布莱尔博士说到，” 这不能说我们在所有事情上都有腐败吧？“
Coke’s involvement in the new organization is not the only example of corporate-funded research and advocacy to come under fire lately. The American Society for Nutrition and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics have been criticized by public health advocates for forming partnerships with companies such as Kraft Foods, McDonald’s, PepsiCo and Hershey’s. Dietitians have also faced criticism for taking payments from Coke to present the company’s soda as a healthy snack.
可口可乐牵涉新的公益组织这件事不是个案，众多企业赞助和支持研究机构的行为最近屡遭炮轰。
Critics say Coke has long cast the obesity epidemic as primarily an exercise problem. “The message is that obesity is not about the foods or beverages you’re consuming, it’s that you’re not balancing those foods with exercise,” Dr. Freedhoff of the University of Ottawa said.
公众健康倡导者指责全美营养社团和营养与饮食学学院，说他们和卡夫食品，麦当劳，百事以及好时等公司有合作关系。而营养学家也遭到指责，因为他们把这些公司的苏打食品描述成健康的小食从而获得好处。
Now, public health advocates say, Coca-Cola is going a step further, recruiting reputable scientists to make the case for them.
批评者说可口可乐一直以来都认为肥胖病是运动出了问题。”研究结果表明肥胖和你摄入的食物和饮料无关，而是你没有通过运动来平衡你的摄入“渥太华大学弗利霍夫博士说到。
Dr. Hill, the nonprofit’s president, is a co-founder of the National Weight Control Registry, a long-term study of people who have lost weight, and has served on committees for the World Health Organization and the National Institutes of Health. The American Society for Nutrition refers to him as “a leader in the fight against the global obesity epidemic.”
公共健康倡议者说，现在可口可乐正在更进一步，通过招聘知名的科学家来证明这些观点。国家体重控制登机处的合作创始人，长期研究成功减肥的人士的非盈利组织主席希尔博士同时也在WHO和国家健康研究所的委员会里工作。全美营养社团称他是“和全球肥胖问题斗争的领袖“。
Barry M. Popkin, a professor of global nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said Coke’s support of prominent health researchers was reminiscent of tactics used by the tobacco industry, which enlisted experts to become “merchants of doubt” about the health hazards of smoking.
北卡大学教堂山分校的全球营养学教授巴里波金说可口可乐对知名健康研究人员的支持很像烟草行业曾经用的策略，就是招募专家“专业质疑“吸烟对健康的危害。
Marion Nestle, the author of the book “Soda Politics” and a professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University, was blunt: “The Global Energy Balance Network is nothing but a front group for Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola’s agenda here is very clear: Get these researchers to confuse the science and deflect attention from dietary intake.”
”苏打政治“的作者同时也是纽约大学营养，饮食和公众健康学的教授玛丽恩奈索尔，直言不讳道”全球热量平衡网络除了给可口可乐公司打前哨战，什么都不是。现在可口可乐的意图很明确：找些研究人员来搞乱科学从而转移人们对食物摄入的关注”。
Funding from the food industry is not uncommon in scientific research. But studies suggest that the funds tend to bias findings. A recent analysis of beverage studies, published in the journal PLOS Medicine, found that those funded by Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, the American Beverage Association and the sugar industry were five times more likely to find no link between sugary drinks and weight gain than studies whose authors reported no financial conflicts.
食品产业对科学研究的资金注入并不常见。但研究表明这种资金往往更会左右研究结果。最近一份发表在PLOS医学杂志上关于饮料的研究分析发现，由可口可乐，百事可乐，美国饮料协会和糖业资助的研究结果相比那些没有资金往来机构的研究结果，得出含糖饮料和体重增加没有关系的结论的可能性要高出五倍。
On its website, the new nonprofit promises to be “the voice of science” in discussions about healthy lifestyles and contends that the concept of energy balance provides “a new science-based framework” for achieving a stable body weight.
这个新组织在它的网站上承诺会用 “科学的声音”讨论健康生活，并声称平衡热量这个概念能为达到一个稳定的身体体重提供一个“新的基于科学的解决方案”。
The group says there is “strong evidence” that the key to preventing weight gain is not reducing food intake — as many public health experts recommend — “but maintaining an active lifestyle and eating more calories.” To back up this contention, the group provides links to two research papers, each of which contains this footnote: “The publication of this article was supported by The Coca-Cola Company.”
他们说有“强有力的证据”表明防止变胖关键不在减少食物的摄入—这往往被很多专家所推荐—“而应该保持一个更有活力的生活方式并吃进更多的卡路里”。为支撑整个观点，他们还给出两项研究的链接，每项都有这样的注脚“本文章的发表获得可口可乐公司的支持”。
In March, Dr. Hill, Dr. Blair, and Dr. Hand announced the creation of the organization in an editorial in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. They argued that the public and many scientists largely overlooked physical inactivity as a cause of obesity. They said they were creating the Global Energy Balance Network to raise awareness “about both sides of the energy balance equation.”
三月，希尔，布莱尔，韩德三位博士在英国运动医学周刊的总编文章中介绍了这个组织的创立。他们称民众和很多科学家大都不认为缺乏运动是肥胖的原因。他们说他们建立全球平衡热量网是为了让人们”同时了解热量平衡等式的两端“。
The editorial contained a disclosure that the group had received an “unrestricted education gift” from Coca-Cola.
文章披露了团队从可口可乐公司收到了一个“任意使用的教育礼物”。
In response to a request made under the state Freedom of Information Act, the University of South Carolina disclosed that Dr. Blair had received more than $3.5 million in funding from Coke for research projects since 2008.
在国家信息安全法要求下，南卡大学做出回应说布莱尔博士2008年以来在其研究项目上收到可口可乐超过350万美元的资金支持。
The university also disclosed that Coca-Cola had provided significant funding to Dr. Hand, who left the University of South Carolina last year for West Virginia. The company gave him $806,500 for an “energy flux” study in 2011 and $507,000 last year to establish the Global Energy Balance Network.
南卡同时也披露说给韩德博士也提供了大量资金，韩德博士去年离开南卡去了西弗吉尼亚。可口可乐2011年给他的“热量变化”项目提供了$806,500资金，去年筹建全球平衡热量网则给了$507,000。
It is unclear how much of the money, if any, ended up as personal income for the professors.
如果有的话，还不清楚给教授个人的收入是多少。
“As long as everybody is disclosing their potential conflicts and they’re being managed appropriately, that’s the best that you can do,” Dr. Hand said. “It makes perfect sense that companies would want the best science that they can get.”
“只要人人都能够披露他们与别人可能的往来，并且能被正确的管理，就能做到最好”韩德博士说，“最完美的情况就是公司能够得到他们想要的最好的科学成果”
The group’s president, Dr. Hill, also has financial ties to Coca-Cola. The company last year gave an “unrestricted monetary gift” of $1 million to the University of Colorado Foundation. In response to a request made under the Colorado Open Records Act, the university said that Coca-Cola had provided the money “for the purposes of funding” the Global Energy Balance Network.
团队主席希尔博士和可口可乐公司也有资金上的联系。公司去年给了科罗拉多大学基金会100万美元作为“随意使用的资金礼物”。在科罗拉多档案公开法案的规定下，科大说可口可乐提供这笔钱“目的是支持”全球平衡热量网。
Money Sought
寻找资金
Dr. Hill said he had sought money from Coke to start the nonprofit because there was no funding available from his university. The group’s website says it is also supported by a few universities and ShareWIK Media Group, a producer of videos about health. Dr. Hill said that he had also received a commitment of help from General Mills, as well as promises of support from other businesses, which had not formally confirmed their offers.
因为所在大学无法提供资金，希尔博士从可口可乐公司寻觅到资金来启动非盈利性组织。团队的网站上说他们还从其他一些大学和健康视频厂商ShareWIK传媒集团获得支持，还有一些商业企业虽然没有最后确认，但也都承诺了会给予帮助和支持，包括通用磨坊公司等。
He said he believed public health authorities could more easily change the way people eat by working with the food industry instead of against it.
他说他相信如果和食品工业合作而不是对抗，公众健康权威更能改变人们饮食习惯。
On its website, the group recommends combining greater exercise and food intake because, Dr. Hill said, “ ‘Eat less’ has never been a message that’s been effective. The message should be ‘Move more and eat smarter.’ ”
在他的网站上，团队推荐将饮食和加大运动量结合起来，希尔博士说，“少吃从来没有被证明是有效的。有效的方法是应该大量运动，聪明饮食”。
He emphasized that weight loss involved a combination of complex factors and that his group’s goal was not to play down the role of diet or to portray obesity as solely a problem of inadequate exercise.
他强调减肥包含很多复杂的因素，而他的团队的目标就是既不削弱饮食所扮演的角色，也不把肥胖病单单描述成是运动不够引起的问题。
“If we are out there saying it’s all about physical activity and it’s not about food, then we deserve criticism,” he said. “But I think we haven’t done that.”
“如果我们一直在说是因为体育锻炼而和饮食无关，那我们确实该被批评”他说，“但我想我们没有那么做”。
But in news releases and on its website, the group has struck a different tone.
但从释放的结论和网站上所说的，他们确是另外一种论调。
“The media tends to blame the obesity epidemic on our poor eating habits,” one recent news release states. “But are those french fries really the culprit? Dr. Steve Blair explains that you shouldn’t believe everything you see on TV.”
“媒体往往将肥胖病归罪在我们糟糕的饮食上”一个最新的结论写到，“但那些法式薯条真的是元凶吗？布莱尔教授解释说你们老是相信电视上说的所有事情”。
In the news release, Dr. Blair suggests that sedentary behavior is a bigger factor.
在新发表的一篇报道中，布莱尔博士提出不爱运动是更大的原因。
Most public health experts say that energy balance is an important concept, because weight gain for most people is about calories in vs. calories out. But the experts say research makes it clear that one side of the equation has a far greater effect.
大部分大众健康专家说平衡热量是一个很重要的概念，因为对大部分人来说体重的变化就是卡路里摄入和消耗的多少。但是专家说以上的研究使平衡等式中的一端有更大的影响力。
While people can lose weight in several ways, many studies suggest that those who keep it off for good consume fewer calories. Growing evidence also suggests that maintaining weight loss is easier when people limit their intake of high glycemic foods such as sugary drinks and other refined carbohydrates, which sharply raise blood sugar.
虽然人们可以通过多种途径减肥，但是许多研究表明保持好身材的人往往吃得比较少。越来越多证据表明限制能让血糖迅速升高的诸如含糖饮料等的高血糖食物和其他精细的碳水化合物的摄入，会使人们更容易减肥。
Physical activity is important and certainly helps, experts say. But studies show that exercise increases appetite, causing people to consume more calories. Exercise also expends far fewer calories than most people think. A 12-ounce can of Coca-Cola, for example, contains 140 calories and roughly 10 teaspoons of sugar. “It takes three miles of walking to offset that one can of Coke,” Dr. Popkin said.
专家说体育锻炼当然很重要也很有帮助。但是研究表明运动会增加胃口，让人们吃更多的东西。运动其实也没大部分人所想的那样能消耗那么多热量。举个例子，一罐12盎司的可口可乐，含有140大卡和大概10茶匙的糖，“要走3英里才能抵消那罐可乐的热量”波金博士说。
In one of the most rigorous studies of physical activity and weight loss, published in the journal Obesity, scientists recruited 200 overweight, sedentary adults and put them on an aggressive exercise program. To isolate the effects of exercise on their weight, the subjects were instructed not to make any changes in their diets.
肥胖杂志上登了一个十分严格的关于体育锻炼和减肥的研究报告，科学家找来200个超重且不大运动的成年人，让他们参与严苛的训练计划。为了单独观察运动对体重的影响，此计划没有改变他们的日常饮食。
Participants were monitored to ensure they exercised five to six hours a week, more than double the 2.5 weekly hours of exercise recommended in federal guidelines. After a year, the men had lost an average of just 3.5 pounds, the women 2.5. Almost everyone was still overweight or obese.
参与者要强制要求一个礼拜锻炼5到6个小时，超过联邦参考指导推荐的每周2.5小时的两倍。一年后，男性平均只瘦了3.5磅，女性是2.5磅。几乎所有人都还是超重的或者肥胖的。
“Adding exercise to a diet program helps,” said Dr. Anne McTiernan, the lead author of the study and a researcher at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center in Seattle. “But for weight loss, you’re going to get much more impact with diet changes.”
“节食方案里加入运动是会有帮助的“安妮米可泰南博士说，她是研究的主要作者，也是西雅图弗雷德哈钦森癌症中心的研究员。”但在减肥的过程中，饮食带给你的变化会更大“。
Divergent Research
相反的研究
But much like the research on sugary drinks, studies of physical activity funded by the beverage industry tend to reach conclusions that differ from the findings of studies by independent scientists.
但就像在含糖饮料上的研究一样，在对运动的研究上，饮料产业做出的结论和独立科学家的研究发现也往往不同。
Last week, the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Louisiana announced the findings of a large new study on exercise in children that determined that lack of physical activity “is the biggest predictor of childhood obesity around the world.”
上周，路易斯安娜潘宁顿生物医药研究中心宣布在儿童运动方面有一项重大研究发现，缺乏运动锻炼”预示着全球儿童肥胖“。
The news release contained a disclosure: “This research was funded by The Coca-Cola Company.”
这篇报告发布时说了句话“本研究由可口可乐公司资助“。
Kelly D. Brownell, dean of the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke, said that as a business, Coke “focused on pushing a lot of calories in, but then their philanthropy is focused on the calories out part, the exercise.”
杜克大学桑福德公共政策学院院长凯莉布朗内说，作为一家企业，可口可乐公司”很关心吃进卡路里而同时他们的公益事业却在关心如何消耗卡路里，就是运动“。
In recent years, Coke has donated money to build fitness centers in more than 100 schools across the country. It sponsors a program called “Exercise is Medicine” to encourage doctors to prescribe physical activity to patients. And when Chicago’s City Council proposed a soda tax in 2012 to help address the city’s obesity problem, Coca-Cola donated $3 million to establish fitness programs in more than 60 of the city’s community centers.
近些年，可口可乐在全国100多所学校捐款建了健身中心。它赞助了一个叫”运动就是妙药“的项目，以鼓励医生把运动锻炼推荐给病人。而当芝加哥城市委员会2012年提出苏打税来帮助解决城市的肥胖问题时，可口可乐捐了300多万美元在60多个城市社区中心筹划健身项目。
The initiative to tax soda ultimately failed.
对苏打征税的办法最后没能实施。
“Reversing the obesity trend won’t happen overnight,” Coca-Cola said in an ad for its Chicago exercise initiative.“But for thousands of families in Chicago, it starts now, with the next push-up, a single situp or a jumping jack.”
”逆转肥胖的趋势不会一蹴而就“可口可乐在一次宣传它的芝加哥锻炼方案时说到，”但对芝加哥数以千计的家庭来说，现在就开始，从一个俯卧撑，一个仰卧起坐，或者开合跳。“