Dotty Kyle and Eric Brattstrom had an ambitious vision for the home they would build when they sold their bed-and-breakfast here seven years ago and retired.
七年前，多蒂·凯尔(Dotty Kyle)和埃里克·布拉特斯托姆(Eric Brattstrom) 卖掉了他们的B&B旅店，过上了退休生活，当时他们对即将修建的新家有着雄心勃勃的计划。
They were environmental and community advocates, so they wanted it to be as sustainable as possible — ideally net-zero, producing as much energy as it used. And because they would be living on a modest fixed income, they needed to make sure it was inexpensive to maintain.
他们是热心于环保和社区事务的人，因而想尽可能地增加生活方式的可持续性——理想情况是零能耗，实现能源完全自给自足。此外，由于他们将依靠微薄的固定收入生活，因而需要确保房屋的维护费用比较低廉。
But they didn’t want to scrimp on luxury or size, so against their architect’s advice they insisted on 5,000 square feet, enough space to accommodate all their children and grandchildren at the same time. And a $30,000 hydraulic elevator, so they could age in place. And a separate apartment for the inevitable time when extra help was needed.
但是，他们又不想牺牲舒适度或居住面积，因此没有采纳建筑师的建议，而是执意修建了5000平方英尺（约合465平方米）的房子。这样一来，所有的儿孙都可以同时住下。他们还坚持买下了3万美元（约合人民币18.5万元）的液压电梯，以便上年纪后腿脚不便时使用。此外，他们还执意建一处独立公寓，毕竟以后难免有需要请人照料的时候。
The indoor pool was just for fun.
室内游泳池只是为了好玩而修的。
“We sold a nine-bedroom B&B and then pretty much recreated it right up the street,” said Ms. Kyle, who is now 78, shaking her head with the kind of clarity only hindsight affords.
“我们卖掉了一家九间卧室的B&B旅店，然后相当于又重建了一个，”说着，78岁的凯尔摇了摇头，这种事也只有事后才看得明白。
“I was an idiot and built a house that was way too complicated and labor-intensive,” said Mr. Brattstrom, also 78. “Only a masochist could enjoy it.”
“我犯傻了，造了一栋太复杂、太耗费人力的房子，”与凯尔同龄的布拉特斯托姆说，“只有受虐狂才会喜欢住在这里。”
•
The good news? The house is very inexpensive to operate.
好消息是，这套房子的维护费用非常低廉。
With 71 photovoltaic and eight solar hot-water collectors, there is plenty of free power. In fact, in the seven years they’ve lived here, they’ve never written a check to the public utility for electricity, because they generate more than they consume, sending the overage back into the grid.
由于配备了71个光伏电池和八套太阳能热水器，这套房子的免费能源很充足。事实上，他们入住七年以来，还从没交过电费，因为他们的产电比耗电还多，还可以将多余的电量输回给电网。
And because Mr. Brattstrom did most of the labor himself, using trees cleared from the property, the cost of the whole compound was $100 a square foot, or somewhere between $500,000 and $600,000 for the house, garage and outbuildings — like the chicken coop, which is heated in the winter organically, using compost.
由于大部分活计是布拉特斯托姆亲自动手做的，用的建材也是就地取材的树木，因而整个建筑群的单位面积成本只有每平方英尺100美元（约合人民币每平方米6859元）；换言之，整栋房子加上车库及附属房屋的总造价，就是50至60万美元（约合人民币309至370万元）。附属建筑里包括一座鸡舍，在冬季，它会采取有机的方式采暖——使用堆肥。
That’s just one example of the couple’s willingness to try almost any newfangled sustainable strategy in what has become their own private incubator for green building science.
这样的例子还有很多，它们充分表明只要是新奇的可持续生活策略，夫妇俩几乎都愿意在家中尝试。而这个家，已经变成了他们私人的绿色建筑科技孵化器。
Mr. Brattstrom, a geologist by training and a commercial construction manager for most of his working life, has been interested in environmental engineering since the 1970s, he said, when he slapped some crude homemade panels on his roof in an effort to get more hot water. “That first system was copper and plywood and glass,” he said.
布拉特斯托姆是地质学专业出身，在职业生涯的大部分时间，都在做商业建筑经理。他表示，自己从20世纪70年代开始就一直对环境工程学感兴趣，当时他为了让家里有更多的热水供应，就在屋顶上安装了一些做工粗糙的自制太阳能板。“最开始那个系统是由铜、胶合板和玻璃组成的。”他说。
But he really got going after reading Al Gore’s 1992 book, “Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit.”
不过，他真正开始行动是在读了阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)在1992年出版的《濒临失衡的地球：生态学及人文精神》(Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit)这本书之后。
Now he and Ms. Kyle anchor their small town’s energy committee, one of about 170 in Vermont charged with figuring out how the state can meet its goal of having a 90 percent renewable energy supply by 2050. And Yestermorrow, the well-known design-build school based in Waitsfield, often sends its students over to study Mr. Brattstrom’s green construction techniques: his super-insulating wizardry, fancy ceiling constructs and tight walls (some of the exterior ones are more than a foot thick).
如今，他和凯尔主持着他们小镇的能源委员会。这样的委员会在佛蒙特州(Vermont)大约有170个，致力于寻求让州政府完成其能源目标的途径——在2050年实现90%的可再生能源供应。坐落于韦茨菲尔德(Waitsfield)的著名设计与建筑学院Yestermorrow，经常派学生来拜访布拉特斯托姆，学习他的绿色建筑技术：比如他的超级隔热秘诀、美妙的吊顶结构、厚实的墙壁（有些外墙的厚度超过了一英尺[约合30厘米]）。
Gaelen Brown, who teaches at Yestermorrow and advised the couple on their composting system, said he is “uber impressed” by their experimentation. “Dotty and Eric are creative and open-minded,” he said. “Not your typical homeowners.”
Yestermorrow的教师盖伦·布朗(Gaelen Brown)是这对夫妇修建堆肥系统的参谋。他说，夫妇俩的试验精神让他“超级震撼”。“多蒂和埃里克很有创造力，思想也很开明，”他说，“并不是你概念里典型的那种房主。”
•
But all that creativity can be difficult to manage. For months now, Ms. Kyle has been gathering photos and graphics, and working off her husband’s scrawled notes, in an effort to produce a manual that explains which levers do what, and what combination of heating systems should be deployed in various seasons and weather conditions (those systems include the solar array, a mile of radiant heating divided into 15 zones, a wood-pellet boiler and a super-efficient fireplace that distributes its heat through ductwork to various parts of the house).
但是，如此充沛的创造力也可能很难把握。几个月来，凯尔一直在收集照片和图像，并整理她丈夫潦草的笔记，以便制作一本手册，来解释哪些控制杆可以做什么、在各种季节和天气条件下应该怎样组合制热系统（这些系统包括太阳能电池组；总长1公里、分成15个区的辐射供暖系统；一个木屑颗粒燃烧炉；一座超高效壁炉，可以将热量通过通风管传递到房内各个角落）。
It’s not the kind of place you can up and leave for, say, a week’s vacation in Florida. And it is hard to imagine who would take this on if it ever hit the real estate market. Perhaps someone who wouldn’t mind raising and lowering the 56 insulating interior shades, a task that must be done every day.
这不是一栋让你可以说走就走——比如说去佛罗里达州度上一星期假的房子；也很难想象这套房子如果上市出售的话，有谁会买。没准，也会有人不介意升起和降下56幅隔热帘，这项每天必不可少的工作吧。
When Mr. Brattstrom is away, it’s hard for Ms. Kyle to run the place by herself, especially when she has to lift the heavy bags of wood pellets into the boiler or climb onto the steep, slippery widow’s walk over the barn to sweep snow and ice off the solar panels so they can function effectively.
布拉特斯托姆出门在外的时候，凯尔自己很难打理这处住所，特别是，她得把一包包沉重的木屑颗粒扛起来，倒进燃烧炉里；或者爬上又滑又陡的斜坡，到仓库上方的屋顶天台扫除太阳能板上的冰雪，让其能够有效工作。
“I’m starting to have a bit of vertigo,” she said of that particular task.
“我都开始觉得有点晕了。”她在谈到那个特定任务时说。
This fall, Mr. Brattstrom added another component to already complicated systems: a single-compressor, cold-climate air-source heat pump, which cost about $5,000 and runs on the electricity the couple’s solar array produces.
今年（2014年——译注）秋天，布拉特斯托姆又给这个已然错综复杂的系统，添了一个新元件：一台适用于寒冷气候的单压缩机空气源热泵，耗资大约5000美元（约合人民币3.1万元），依靠夫妇俩的太阳能电池组供电。
“These pumps are right on for the way to heat homes today,” he said. “Especially if you have a lot of solar panels to begin with, as we do. They’re so inexpensive to operate.”
“这些热泵很适合现在家庭供暖之用，”他说，“尤其是当你家本来就有很多太阳能板的时候。我们就符合这个情况。它们用起来太省钱了。”
The problem with being an early adopter, he has discovered, is that simpler, less costly technologies emerge over time, and the choices you made in the beginning, which seemed sensible at the time, begin to feel ill-advised. All that experimentation, he concluded, has produced a smorgasbord of systems, rather than something streamlined and focused.
他发现，做一名先驱者的问题在于，随着时间的流逝，更简单、更省钱的技术会相继出现。而你一开始做出的选择，可能在当时是明智的；但一段时间过去后，就开始让人觉得失策。他的结论是，当初他们五花八门的试验造就了一堆大杂烩，而非一套精简、集约的系统。
“It’s clear now,” he said. “This was the wrong way to go.”
“现在已经明白了，”他说，“我们走错了路。”
If they had it to do over, the couple agreed, their house would be much smaller — no more than 2,000 square feet.
夫妇俩达成共识，要是以后必须推倒重来，那么房子要建得比现在小得多——不超过2000平方英尺（约合185.8平方米）。
They’d still choose solar power, but would use it to run heat pumps like the one Mr. Brattstrom just bought and would forgo the pellet boiler and the radiant heat, which is slow to respond. During the coldest months, they’d supplement the system with propane water and air heaters.
他们还是会选择太阳能，但会用它来给布拉特斯托姆新买的热泵供电，而不会再使用木炭燃烧炉和辐射采暖了，那两种方式都太慢。等到了最寒冷的几个月，他们会用丙烷液化气和制热空调来补充这个系统。