HONG KONG — The organizer of a party at a water park in Taiwan last year that ended with a fiery explosion that killed 15 people and injured hundreds was sentenced to nearly five years in prison for negligence on Tuesday.
香港——周二，台湾去年那场以大爆炸告终的水上乐园派对活动的组织者，因过失行为被判处近五年有期徒刑。爆炸导致15人死亡，数百人受伤。
The so-called Color Play Party at the Formosa Fun Coast park in New Taipei City in June featured tons of colored powder that was thrown over participants as they listened to music and danced. But the material was flammable, and it ignited when it was blown over a hot electric light, the Shihlin District Court said in its ruling.
去年6月，在新北市八仙海岸水上乐园的“彩色派对”上，数吨彩色粉末被喷到了正在听音乐跳舞的参与者身上。然而，士林地方法院在其判决书中表示，这些粉末属易燃物，在喷到一个高温电灯泡上时引爆。
Color Play Asia, the company that organized the party, had said the powder was a mixture of cornstarch and food coloring.
活动的主办方玩色创意公司承认，粉末里混合了玉米粉和食用色素。
Lu Chung-chi, the owner of Color Play Asia, was found guilty of negligence and sentenced to four years and 10 months in prison. Last year, he apologized for the disaster.
玩色创意老板吕忠吉(Lu Chung-chi)被判业务过失罪名成立，获刑四年十个月。去年，他曾为事故致歉。
In addition to those killed, all of whom initially survived but succumbed to injuries in the ensuing days, 331 people sustained serious burns and injuries and 135 people had less severe injuries.
所有死者皆非立即丧命，而是因受伤而未能挺过随后的几天。除遇难者外，还有331人严重烧伤或受重伤，135人轻伤。
“Most of these victims were young, their beautiful lives just about to begin, beautiful dreams yet to be achieved, promising futures yet to be created,” the court said in a statement on the sentencing. “Because of the explosion, 15 lost their lives, and the majority of the survivors are subject to enormous physical and mental pain and suffering.”
“这些被害人多数年纪尚轻，正值青春年华，美好人生刚要开始，美丽梦想有待实现，大好前程尚待创造，”法庭在判决书中解释量刑的段落中表示。“却因本案尘爆意外，15位失去宝贵生命，多数幸存者则承受身心巨大的痛苦与折磨。”
Relatives of some of the victims protested outside the court on Tuesday, calling for justice in the case, Taiwan’s Central News Agency reported.
台湾的中央通讯社报道，周二当天，部分受害者的家属在法院外抗议，呼吁此案伸张正义。
The mother of Liu Chih-wei, 19, who died of severe burns, denounced Mr. Lu. “You can die 15 times and be burned 499 times over and still not understand our pain,” she said, according to the news agency.
19岁的刘致苇(Liu Chih-wei)便死于严重烧伤。他的母亲对吕忠吉表示谴责。中央通讯社称，这位母亲说，“就算你死15次，被烧499次，也无法感受我们的痛。”