KAOHSIUNG, Taiwan — The problem with bananas, for the Taiwanese farmers who grow them, is that they are not pineapples.
台湾高雄——对于台湾的蕉农来说，香蕉的问题在于它们不是菠萝。
Taiwan’s banana exports have fallen sharply, and prices the farmers get have fallen, too. The solution would seem simple: better marketing, as has been done for almonds, raisins or pomegranates in the United States.
台湾的香蕉出口量急剧下降，蕉农们出售香蕉的价格也有所下降。解决办法似乎非常简单：采取更好的营销策略，就像美国针对杏仁，葡萄干或石榴采取的策略一样。
The Taiwan Banana Research Institute wants to make the banana a luxury product. It hopes consumers will consider the Pei-Chiao bananas, the Cavendish variety most often grown in Taiwan, a delicacy for which they will pay a premium price. “Our goal is to position Taiwanese bananas as a brand and appeal to consumers who are willing to pay extra for fruit because it tastes better and was grown using safer farming methods,” said Chao Chih-ping, director of the institute.
台湾香蕉研究所希望使香蕉成为一种奢侈品。该研究所希望消费者将北蕉——台湾最常种植的华蕉系品种——当做一种珍奇果品，从而愿意为此支付较高价钱。研究所所长赵治平表示，“我们的目标是使台湾香蕉成为品牌，吸引那些愿意为味道更好、种植方法更安全的水果支付高价的消费者。”
But so far, the country’s efforts have fallen short.
但到目前为止，他们的努力还没取得成功。
Taiwan’s banana industry needs to discover a hit product that will increase demand and raise prices. Banana farmers look to the example of the pineapple cake, the snack savior of Taiwan’s pineapple industry.
台湾的香蕉产业需要发现一种能够增加需求，提高价格的热门产品。蕉农希望以凤梨酥为榜样，这种糕点拯救了台湾的菠萝产业。
In 2006, the Taipei city government began promoting the pastry as a souvenir of Taiwan, holding annual baking competitions and marketing it to tourists. That year, total revenue earned by Taiwan’s pineapple cake industry was 2 billion Taiwan dollars, about $67 million, according to the Taipei Bakery Association.
2006年，台北市政府开始推广凤梨酥，使其成为台湾的一种地方特产，每年都举行烘焙比赛，向游客们推销这种点心。据台北市糕饼商业同业公会透露，2006年，台湾凤梨酥产业的总收入达到20亿台币（当时约合5亿元人民币）。
By 2012 revenue had grown to 39 billion Taiwan dollars, driven by bakeries like SunnyHills, which ships pineapple cakes to buyers in mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore.
到2012年，在微热山丘等糕点店的推动下，凤梨酥产业的收益上涨至390亿台币，这些糕点店将凤梨酥发往中国大陆、香港、日本及新加坡的买家。
“We hoped that banana cake could be the next pineapple cake, but that hasn’t happened,” said Chuang Lao-da, a director at the Council of Agriculture’s Agriculture and Food Agency.
农业委员会农粮署的一名组长庄老达说，“我们希望香蕉酥能成为下一个凤梨酥，但这个愿望没有实现。”
Taiwan’s surplus bananas have also been turned into chips, puddings and a domestically consumed liquor.
剩余的香蕉还被做成了香蕉片、布丁及一种在台湾销售的酒。
But so far, no hit. Wu Pao-chun, a baker famous for winning international competitions like France’s Coupe Louis Lesaffre, created his own version of banana bread as a tribute to farmers.
但迄今为止，还没有出现热门产品。因赢得法国乐斯福杯面包比赛(Coupe Louis Lesaffre)等国际竞赛而闻名的烘焙师吴宝春研发了自己的香蕉面包，以此向农民致敬。
Unlike the hearty American version, which is made with mashed bananas, Mr. Wu’s recipe features slices of fruit. Though many of Mr. Wu’s baked goods are sold online, his banana bread cannot be shipped because the fruit will lose its texture and flavor. It is available only at his Kaohsiung bakery, where about 30 small loaves are baked each day and sold for 80 Taiwan dollars, about $2.70 each.
和用香蕉泥制作、口味浓郁的美式香蕉面包不同，吴宝春的香蕉面包加了水果切片。虽然吴宝春的很多烘焙产品可以在网上购买，但这种香蕉面包却无法运送，因为水果的口感和味道会变差。只有在高雄的面包店才能买到这种面包，他们每天烘烤30个小香蕉面包，每个售价80台币。
“People in Asian countries aren’t used to baked goods made with bananas. They have to become accustomed to the flavor, which we hope to do by gradually promoting our banana bread,” he said.
吴宝春说，“亚洲国家的人不习惯食用以香蕉为原料的烘焙食物。他们需要习惯这样的味道，我希望通过逐步推广我们的香蕉品牌来使他们习惯。”
Mr. Chao thinks researchers could extract tryptophan, an amino acid, from surplus bananas for use as an antidepressant. Peels may be a source of antioxidants and fiber can be harvested from stems and turned into textiles.
赵治平认为，科研人员可以从过剩的香蕉中提取一种名为“色氨酸”的氨基酸，用于抗抑郁药物。香蕉皮也许可以作抗氧化剂的原料，而香蕉梗则可以提供纤维，加工成纺织品。
The American corn industry may be a better model for Taiwan’s banana farmers than pineapple cakes.
比起凤梨酥，美国玉米业或许为台湾蕉农提供了更好的示范。
Most corn is turned into ethanol, animal feed or high-fructose corn syrup, but it can also be used in the manufacturing of cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and textiles.
目前，多数美国玉米加工成了乙醇、动物饲料或高果糖玉米糖浆，它还可以用于化妆品、药物和纺织品生产。
“We’re looking at products like nutritional powder made from processed bananas, which is becoming more popular in Japan as a health and weight-loss aid,” said Mr. Chuang, the government agriculture official.
“我们正在研究香蕉加工的营养粉等产品。在日本，这种健康和减肥辅助产品越来越流行，”农业官员庄老达说。
Lu Ming, a farmer, has given up waiting for the banana’s ascendence. In 1967, Mr. Lu decided to switch from farming rice to bananas. For two decades Mr. Lu, 76, cultivated his banana trees in the Qishan district, rising at 5 a.m. and working until sunset. He earned enough money to hire workers who helped harvest the fruit and package it for shipment.
现年76岁的蕉农吕明对香蕉的兴起已不抱希望。1967年，吕明决定放弃稻米，转而种香蕉。他在旗山区潜心种植了20年香蕉树，早上5点起床，一直劳作到太阳落山。那时，他收入不错，雇了几名帮工来收割香蕉并进行运输前的包装。
Farmers could not compete with lower labor costs in the Philippines, however, and exports of Taiwan bananas began to plunge. According to the Council of Agriculture in Taiwan, banana exports to Japan, a major market, plummeted to 9,161 tons in 2012 from 42,600 tons in 1967.
不过，台湾蕉农无法和劳动力成本更低的菲律宾竞争，香蕉出口开始直线下降。台湾行政院农业委员会的数据显示，在台湾香蕉的主要市场日本，出口从1967年的4.26万吨猛降至2012年的9161吨。
By the early 1980s, Mr. Lu could no longer afford laborers, and he and his wife began selling candy from sidewalk stalls to make ends meet. Now Mr. Lu, who still farms and works odd jobs, says there are years when his banana harvest earns less than 100,000 Taiwan dollars — far below the average annual income in Taiwan of 452,400 Taiwan dollars, about $15,200.
到了上世纪80年代初，吕明雇不起帮工了。为了维持生计，他和妻子开始摆路边摊卖糖果。现如今，吕明依然在务农的同时做各种零工。他表示，香蕉收成的收入多年来都不到10万新台币，远低于台湾的人均年收入45.24万新台币。
Businesses have sprung up around the memories of the boom times. Once a warehouse for bananas before they were loaded onto ships destined for Japan, the Banana Pier in Kaohsiung is now a seaside entertainment complex. Banana New Paradise in Taichung appeals to nostalgic diners by combining a restaurant with an indoor re-creation of a 1960s Taiwan village.
这里涌现了各种回顾黄金岁月的怀旧生意。高雄香蕉码头曾是对日出口前的集货仓库，如今成为了海滨的综合娱乐场所。台中的香蕉新乐园主打怀旧餐，将茶饭馆融合到室内打造的上世纪60年代的台湾村庄街景中。
The Qishan-based rock group Youthbanana organizes tours and working holidays at nearby farms, including the fields belonging to Mr. Lu.
旗山的台青蕉摇滚乐团组织在附近的蕉园开展旅游和劳作度假活动，场所包括吕明的蕉园。
He says he never wanted to stop cultivating bananas, even as it became less profitable.
吕明说，就算挣钱少了，他也从未想过不再种植香蕉。
“When I was younger, we’d roast bananas like yams, feed the peels to pigs and use the leaves to steam buns or fold them into toy boats for our children,” he said. “It wasn’t just about growing and selling. It’s a culture that I want to survive.”
“年轻点的时候，我们会烤香蕉，跟烤红薯一样，拿蕉皮喂猪，蕉叶蒸包或者折成玩具船给小孩玩，”他说。“这不止是种蕉卖蕉，而是一种我希望流传下去的文化。”