A Taiwanese food industry tycoon faces more than 130 charges carrying a possible sentence of up to 30 years in prison in connection with a scandal over the widespread sale of substandard cooking oil.
由于卷入一起大量销售劣质食用油的丑闻，台湾食品业的一名大亨面临130多项指控，可能被判处至多30年的刑期。
Wei Ying-chung, 57, is the highest-profile suspect to face prosecution over revelations that have raised widespread questions about the safety of food in Taiwan and the quality of its food exports. Mr. Wei’s family owns the Ting Hsin International Group, which has broad interests in the food industry, particularly in China, where its Kang Shi Fu instant noodles are ubiquitous.
现年57岁的魏应充(Wei Ying-chung)是这起丑闻中面临起诉的最出名嫌疑人。丑闻的曝光使得人们纷纷质疑台湾的食品安全，以及该地出口食品的质量。魏应充所在家族拥有顶新国际集团，在饮食行业涉猎广泛，尤其是在中国大陆，集团出品的康师傅方便面随处可见。
Earlier this month, Mr. Wei stepped down as chairman of three Ting Hsin subsidiaries, and the company announced it was pulling out of the Taiwan market for cooking oil. Prosecutors ordered Mr. Wei be detained two weeks ago as the investigation into the companies expanded.
本月早些时候，魏应充卸下顶新集团旗下三家分公司的董事长职务，集团还宣布将退出台湾的食用油市场。两周前，随着针对该集团旗下公司的调查的深入，检察部门下令将魏应充羁押。
The food safety scandal has centered on substandard cooking oil, often called “gutter oil” or “rancid oil.” The latest problems emerged in September, when the police raided a factory in southern Taiwan that was processing oil using waste from restaurants and slaughterhouses.
这起食品安全丑闻的焦点是劣质食用油——常被称为“地沟油”或“变质油”。最新的问题于今年9月浮出水面。当时，警方突击搜查了台湾南部的一家工厂，其生产的食用油回收自餐厅废弃物和屠宰场副产品。
That investigation implicated a company, Chang Guann, that had sold hundreds of tons of tainted oil across Taiwan and for export around the region to locations including Hong Kong and Macau. Its chairman, Yeh Wen-hsiang, faces 235 counts of fraud and other charges.
针对此事的调查牵出了强冠公司。这家企业卖出了数百吨劣质食用油，不仅在台湾各地出售，还销往该地区很多地方，包括香港和澳门。公司董事长叶文祥(Yeh Wen-hsiang)面临欺诈等类别的235项指控。
The investigation into Ting Hsin was announced a month later. But Wei Chuan Foods Corporation, one of Ting Hsin’s Taiwan subsidiaries, had been involved in a food safety scandal last year, when it was found to have sold cooking oil that was substandard and contained illegal additives.
一个月后，针对顶新集团的调查被公之于众。不过，顶新旗下的台湾分公司味全去年即身陷一起食品安全丑闻。公司遭曝光贩售含有违法添加物的劣质食用油。