A team of medical experts has reviewed the case of Taiwan’s imprisoned former president, Chen Shui-bian, fueling expectations that he could soon be released because of health concerns.Although the 15-member medical panel has not released its conclusions, the Taiwanese news media has widely reported that the experts are recommending that Mr. Chen be granted medical parole.
一个医疗专家小组对被监禁的台湾前总统陈水扁的身体状况进行了复查，引起人们对他可能很快会因健康原因获释的预期。虽然这个由15名成员组成的医疗小组尚未公布其结论，但台湾新闻媒体已广泛报道，专家们建议陈水扁被准许保外就医。
Mr. Chen, 64, who was elected Taiwan’s first opposition president in 2000, was convicted of corruption charges after leaving office in 2008. He was originally sentenced to life for money laundering and accepting bribes worth about $17 million, but the prison term was reduced on appeal. He is now five years into a 20-year prison sentence.
现年64岁的陈水扁曾于2000年当选为台湾的第一位来自反对党的总统，2008年离任后，他因腐败指控被判有罪。最初他因洗钱和收受相当于约1700万美元的贿赂而被判处无期徒刑，但上诉后刑期减短。他现已服了20年刑期的头五年。
Mr. Chen’s family and supporters argue that the charges against him were politically motivated. They say that health conditions, including mild brain atrophy, severe depression and Parkinsonism, should make him eligible for medical parole.
陈水扁的家人和支持者认为，对他的指控是出于政治动机。他们说，他的健康状况应该符合保外就医的条件，他患有轻度脑萎缩、严重的抑郁症，以及帕金森病。
Taiwan’s Ministry of Justice has not released the recommendations of the medical team, which met for two hours Monday evening. The ministry said in an emailed statement on Monday that Taichung Prison, where Mr. Chen is incarcerated, would handle the former president’s medical parole in a “prudent and suitable” manner based on the panel’s appraisal and recommendations. Under Taiwanese law, prisoners with severe health problems can be granted medical parole if their conditions cannot be properly treated in prison.
台湾司法部尚未公布医疗小组的建议，该小组在周一晚间讨论了2个小时。司法部周一在一份用电子邮件发的声明中说，陈水扁在押的台中监狱将根据小组的评估和建议“谨慎适当地”处理这位前总统的保外就医事宜。根据台湾法律，有严重健康问题的囚犯可被准许保外就医，如果他们的症状不能在监狱中得到妥善治疗的话。
Doctors say that Mr. Chen’s health has deteriorated dramatically during his time in detention, and that the former president, a once famously loquacious lawyer, has difficulty remembering basic words. Last year he tried to commit suicide by hanging himself with a towel, but was stopped by a guard before he suffered serious injury.
医生说，陈水扁的健康状况在被监禁期间急剧恶化，这位前总统曾是一个有名的口若悬河的律师，而现在他连记起基本词汇都有困难。去年他试图用毛巾悬梁自杀，但被狱警及时发现，使他没有遭受严重的伤害。
In recent weeks, the campaign to have the former leader released received high-profile expressions of support. Annette Lu, who served as vice president under Mr. Chen, began a hunger strike on Sunday to pressure the government to approve his medical parole before the new year. Ko Wen-je, a surgeon who was elected mayor of Taipei in November, visited Mr. Chen in prison two weeks ago and called for the former president to be treated at home.
在最近几周，让该前领导人获释的努力得到了高调的支持。曾在陈水扁手下担任副总统的吕秀莲，在周日开始绝食，以迫使政府在新的一年到来之前批准他保外就医。两周前，11月份当选了台北市市长的柯文哲到狱中探访了陈水扁，柯文哲是外科医生，他呼吁让前总统回家治病。