A 12-year-old in Taiwan lived out many museum-goers’ nightmare (and many parents’) when he tripped and caught his balance by punching a hole in an oil painting that is over 300 years old and valued at $1.5 million.
许多博物馆迷（和家长）们的噩梦真切地发生了。一个来自台湾的12岁男孩在看展时脚下一绊，为了保持平衡，他在一幅油画上捅了个拳头大小的窟窿。这幅油画有300年历史，估值150万美元。
The video of the mishap is mostly uneventful. The boy, carrying something that looks like a canned drink, is taking a casual stroll through the exhibition when he stumbles and falls into the painting.
从监控拍到的视频来看，意外发生时并没有引起人们的注意。当时男孩手里拿着罐装饮料状的东西，本在悠闲地踱步看展，突然间失去平衡跌向了那幅画作。
Then he catches his balance and quickly looks behind him to see if anyone saw him fall. Classic.
重新站稳后，他迅速瞄了眼身后，观察周围有没有人注意到他。（多么本能的反应。）
He left a fist-size hole in the right bottom corner of the canvas, Sun Chi-hsuan, a representative from the company that co-sponsored the exhibition, told reporters. He also said that the exhibition’s curator had asked that the boy not be punished for damaging the painting.
展览赞助商代表之一的孙齐轩（音译）告诉记者，男孩在画布右下角留下了一个拳头大小的窟窿，但策展人希望他不会因此受罚。
The work, “Flowers,” is by the Italian artist Paolo Porpora, who specialized in Baroque-style paintings of still-lifes. According to an art database, it is the only one of the artist’s works that is signed.
这幅名为《花》的画作为意大利艺术家保罗·波尔波拉 (Paolo Porpora) 所绘，波尔波拉擅长巴洛克风格的静物描绘。一个艺术品数据库的资料显示，它是艺术家签过名的唯一一幅作品。
The boy, who by the mercy of the Internet gods has not yet been identified, joins an elite group of art patrons who have damaged expensive works. The most famous is probably the billionaire Steve Wynn, who once put his elbow through Picasso’s “Le Rêve.” In the end, it was repaired and sold to another billionaire for $155 million.
网友们手下留情，肇事的男孩目前还没有被“人肉”出来，他也不是唯一一个损坏了昂贵画作的马大哈。在这个名画杀手俱乐部里，最有名的要数亿万富翁史蒂夫·韦恩 (Steve Wynn)，他的手肘捅破了毕加索的画作《梦》 (Le Rêve)。画作被修复后以1.55亿美元的价格卖给了另一个亿万富翁。
Perhaps “Flowers” will have a similar happy ending: A restoration specialist is already at work on repairing the painting, according to The Guardian.
也许《花》也将得以善终：据英国《卫报》消息，专家已经着手进行修复。