HONG KONG — The pilot of a plane that plunged over buildings, clipped a road and slammed into a river in Taiwan in February acknowledged seconds before impact that he had shut off the wrong engine, according to a report on the deadly crash released Thursday.
香港——今年2月，台湾一架飞机掠过楼房，机翼擦着公路坠入河中。周四，关于这起致命空难的调查报告公布，显示飞机坠毁前驾驶员关错了引擎。
The report from the Aviation Safety Council in Taiwan also said that the pilot had failed a simulator test last year but passed a makeup exam.
台湾飞航安全调查委员会公布的报告还说，该驾驶员去年曾未能通过飞行模拟测试，但通过了补测。
The Feb. 4 crash of TransAsia Airways Flight 235, which was filmed by dashboard cameras that showed the plane plummeting over an elevated roadway in Taipei, the capital, killed 43 passengers and crew members, including the pilot, and injured 17 people, two of them on the ground.
2月4日复兴航空235航班坠毁，导致包括飞行员在内的43名乘客和机组人员丧生，17人受伤，其中包括地面上两人。一个行车记录仪拍到了飞机掠过台北一座高架桥的场景。
The right engine of the ATR 72-600, a twin-engine turboprop, stopped producing thrust shortly after takeoff from Taipei Songshan Airport, according to the Aviation Safety Council’s report. But the pilot, Liao Chien-tsung, 42, apparently thought there was a problem with the left engine, which he shut off less than a minute later.
台湾飞航安全调查委员会报告称，从台北松山机场起飞后不久，这架ATR 72-600型双螺旋桨飞机的右引擎熄火。但42岁的飞行员廖建宗看来是以为左引擎出现了问题，所以他在不到一分钟的时间内就关闭了左引擎。
The shutting down of the wrong engine was seen as a likely cause of the crash when the Aviation Safety Council released its initial finding in February. A conclusion on the crash’s cause is to be included in a final report scheduled to be published next year. The report issued Thursday stops short of laying blame, but it offers new details about what went wrong.
飞航安全调查委员会二月发布的初步调查结果显示，飞机坠机极有可能是因为关闭错误的引擎导致的。坠机的原因将公布于计划明年发布的最终报告中。周四公布的报告并未将失事原因归咎于任何一方，但报告透露了导致事故的新细节。
“Wow, pulled back the wrong side throttle,” Mr. Liao said seconds before the plane banked sharply, hitting a taxi and a barrier on the elevated roadway before crashing into the Keelung River, according to a transcript of the cockpit voice recorder.
“哇，油门收错了，”根据驾驶舱录音，廖建宗在机身剧烈侧倾前几秒钟如此说道。随后飞机撞到一辆出租车和高架桥护栏后坠入基隆河。
The report said Mr. Liao had failed a May 31, 2014, simulator test over emergency procedures including engine fires, loss of hydraulic systems and flying on a single engine. After another training session, he passed a follow-up check a month later. But subsequent training in Singapore found that he had “insufficient knowledge leading to hesitations” during oral tests about what to do during an engine shutdown on takeoff or loss of electronic engine controls, according to the report.
报告称，廖建宗未能通过2014年5月31日的紧急程序模拟测试，其中就包括引擎起火、液压系统失灵和单引擎飞行。在接受额外的培训后，他通过了一个月后的再次测试。报告还称，后来在新加坡的训练显示，在口试中被问及该如何处理起飞时引擎停止工作或引擎电子控制系统失灵时，他“知识不足，导致回答犹豫”。
On Thursday, TransAsia Airways executives bowed in apology at a news conference and said they were strengthening safety procedures and pilot training.
周四，复兴航空高管在新闻发布会上鞠躬致歉，并称他们正在加强安全程序和飞行员训练。
“We sincerely accept these criticisms with an open mind,” said the airline’s chief executive, Peter Chen. “I represent TransAsia in offering our deepest apologies for the harm to society caused by this incident.”
“我们以虚心的态度，诚恳地接受各界的指正，”复兴航空执行长陈欣德说。“我代表复兴航空，对这个事件所造成的伤害跟影响，向大众做最深的歉意表达。”