HONG KONG — Hundreds of people were injured at a water park in Taiwan on Saturday when a cloud of colored powder exploded in the air over a crowd during a live event, erupting into a huge fireball, the island’s official Central News Agency reported.
香港——据台湾官媒中央通讯社报道，周六台湾一个水上乐园发生爆炸事故，造成数百人受伤。在现场活动中，一团彩色粉末在人群上空爆炸，形成一个巨大的火球。
No deaths were reported, but at least 516 people were injured, 194 seriously, including eight with life-threatening injuries, the agency reported. The injured, many suffering burns, were overwhelmingly young, in their 20s or younger, according to a roster posted on the news agency’s website.
目前未有人员死亡的报道，但至少516人受伤，其中194人伤势严重，八人有生命危险，该通讯社报道。根据通讯社网站发布的名单，受伤人员绝大多数是30岁以下的年轻人，许多人被烧伤。
Video taken at the scene showed the flames erupting among the crowd at the event, called Color Play Asia, about 8:30 p.m., after nightfall. People were shown carrying the injured from the scene in inflatable rafts, and others were shown running away, silhouetted by flames. The fire was quickly put under control, but not before hundreds were hurt, the agency said.
现场拍摄的视频显示，夜幕降临后8:30左右，火焰从参加“Color Play Asia 彩色派对“的人群中喷出。在火焰中，人们用充气筏子从现场运出受伤人员，其他人则四散奔跑。火势很快被扑灭，但仍造成数百人受伤，该通讯社报道。
Taiwan’s Ministry of Health and Welfare said on its website that Taipei-area hospitals had many victims requiring skin grafts. The ministry said hospitals also put out urgent requests for other medical supplies needed to treat burns.
台湾卫生福利部(Taiwan’s Ministry of Health and Welfare)在其网站上称，台北地区的医院有大量伤员需要进行植皮。卫生福利部称医院同时也发布了关于治疗烧伤所需的其他医疗用品的急用通知。
Color Play Asia bills itself as Asia’s biggest color party, an event where people dance to music while spraying each other with colored powder. A promotional video for the event on its Facebook page shows employees on a stage blasting colored powder onto the crowd.
“Color Play Asia 彩色派对”自诩是亚洲最大的彩色派对活动，派对上人们随着音乐舞动，并且朝着彼此喷撒彩色粉末。在Facebook网站本次派对活动的页面上的一则活动推广视频显示，工作人员站在舞台上朝人群喷射彩粉。
The victims were mostly Taiwanese, with only three people from mainland China and three citizens of other countries, the news agency reported. They were being treated at 21 hospitals in the Taipei area, the agency said.
据中央通讯社报道，伤者中多数为台湾人，只有三人来自中国大陆，另有三名其它国籍人士。伤者在台北地区21家医院进行救治。
The news agency reported that the person at the park responsible for live events, Lu Zhongji, 41, as well as two other employees, had been taken to a nearby police station for questioning. The police may charge several employees with negligence and public endangerment, the agency said. The cause of the explosion is still under investigation.
中央通讯社报道说，水上乐园现场活动负责人吕忠吉（41岁）和其它几名工作人员被带到附近警察局接受问询。警方可能会对几名工作人员提出涉嫌公共安全和业务过失重伤害罪的控诉。爆炸的起因仍在调查。