HONG KONG — The crash of a passenger plane into a river in Taiwan on Wednesday, which killed at least 31 people, has renewed questions about the safety of the airline, TransAsia Airways. It was the carrier’s second deadly accident in less than seven months.
香港——周三发生在台湾的客机坠河事故已造成至少31人死亡，事故再次引发对复兴航空公司(TransAsia Airways)的安全质疑。这是该公司在不到七个月的时间里第二次致死事故。
On Thursday, Taiwan’s aviation regulators ordered inspections of all aircraft from ATR, maker of the plane that crashed Wednesday shortly after takeoff from the capital, Taipei. The regulatory agency, the Civil Aeronautics Administration, said the inspections would be completed on Thursday for TransAsia’s aircraft and on Friday for ATRs flown by Uni Air, the only other carrier in Taiwan to operate the French- and Italian-made turboprops.
周四，台湾航空监管部门要求对制造商ATR公司的所有飞机进行检查。周三从台北起飞后不久就坠落的飞机即ATR制造。交通部民用航空局(Civil Aeronautics Administration)表示，周四将完成复兴航空公司飞机的检查，周五完成对立荣航空(Uni Air)飞机的检查。立荣航空是台湾仅有的另外一家运营由这家法意合资公司制造的涡轮螺旋桨飞机的航空公司。
Inspectors would focus on the aircraft’s engines, fuel systems and propeller controls, among other systems, the agency said in a written statement.
民用航空局在书面声明中说，检查人员将重点关注飞机的发动机、燃油系统、和螺旋桨控制。
The ATR-72-600 that crashed on Wednesday was bound from Taipei Songshan Airport as Flight 235 to the outlying island of Kinmen, near the mainland Chinese province of Fujian. The crash was caught on dashboard cameras of cars traveling on Huandong Boulevard, on the east side of the capital, in terrifying scenes of the plane flying low past apartment buildings, its left wing dipping and striking the roadway before it plunged into the Keelung River.
周三坠毁的ATR-72-600飞机为从台北松山机场飞往金门离岛的235次航班。金门岛位于中国大陆省份福建附近。台北东边环东大道上行驶的汽车用仪表盘摄像机拍到坠机的可怕场景，飞机低空掠过住宅楼，左翼倾斜撞到公路，然后扎进了基隆河。
The plane’s pilot had radioed the control tower shortly after its 10:53 takeoff to report an engine problem. “Mayday, mayday. Engine flameout,” he said, according to a recording of the radio communication posted online.
飞机驾驶员在10:53起飞后不久使用无线电通讯向控制塔报告了发动机故障。根据互联网上发布的一段无线电通讯记录，飞行员说，“求救，求救。发动机熄火”。
Local officials and aviation experts praised the pilot, Liao Chien-tsung, for avoiding a greater disaster as the plane hurtled over a dense urban area, narrowly missing apartment buildings as it went down.
当地官员和航空专家称赞飞行员廖建宗在飞机坠落时，在人口密集的城市地区躲开了住宅楼，避免了更严重事故的发生。
“Yesterday that pilot, he tried his hardest,” the mayor of Taipei, Ko Wen-je, said on Thursday, his voice cracking and his eyes welling up as he spoke to reporters.
“昨天，飞行员已尽了最大努力，”台北市长柯文哲(Ko Wen-je)周四对记者表示。他声音嘶哑，眼含泪水。
Hugh Ritchie, chief executive of Aviation Consultants International, based in Australia, said the pilot did “an amazing job,” and he added, “It looked like they were doing everything they could.”
澳大利亚的国际航空咨询公司首席执行官休·李奇(Hugh Ritchie)说，飞行员做出了“惊人表现”，“他们做到了他们能做的一切”。
Mr. Liao and the co-pilot, Liu Tse-chung, were among the 31 people confirmed killed in the crash. Fifteen people survived, and 12 others were unaccounted for on Thursday. But the praise for the pilots was tempered with harsh criticism for the airline. The Taipei disaster followed a crash in bad weather in July on an outlying island of Taiwan that killed 48 people.
遇难的31人中包括廖建宗和副驾驶刘自忠。机上有15人生还；周四还有12人下落不明。但人们对飞行员的赞扬中也杂着对航空公司的严厉批评。这次空难之前，在7月，台湾一座偏远小岛上还发生了一起恶劣天气中的坠机事件，48人遇难。
“This carrier has had two big, high-profile crashes in the last seven months,” said Greg Waldron, the Singapore-based Asia managing editor of Flightglobal, an online magazine that covers the aviation industry. “It definitely raises lots of questions.”
“这个航空公司不到七个月发生了两起大型空难，无疑存在很多问题，”新加坡航空业网上杂志Flightglobal的亚洲区执行主编格莱格·沃尔德隆(Greg Waldron)说。