The incidence of dengue fever in Taiwan has risen sharply in recent days, pushing the number of cases since May close to 10,000, the country’s Centers for Disease Control reported on Tuesday. The government announced on Monday that it was creating a central command office to combat the rapid increase in the disease, which has been concentrated in the southern cities of Tainan and Kaohsiung.
台湾疾病管制署周二报告称，近日来，台湾登革热患者急剧增加，5月以来，病例人数增加至约1万例。政府周一宣布将成立中央指挥中心，对抗病例迅速增加的情况。疫情爆发地主要集中在南部城市台南和高雄。
The recent increase follows the worst summer for dengue fever in more than a decade on the island. Taiwan had more than 4,000 dengue cases from May 1 through August, the highest number for the period since systematic record keeping began in 2003, the Central News Agency reported. The cases have more than doubled since Sept. 1.
最近病例增加之前，台湾刚刚经历了10多年来登革热疫情最严重的一个夏天。据台湾中央社报道，从5月1日到8月，台湾出现了4000多例登革热病例，这是自2003年开始系统记录以来，每年同一时期的最高数字。自9月1日以来，病例数增加了一倍多。
Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that causes fever, headaches, nausea, and joint and muscle pain. In severe cases, it can lead to dengue hemorrhagic fever, which is characterized by severe bleeding and circulatory system failures. It is particularly dangerous for children and can lead to death, though with proper medical care, less than 1 percent of cases cause fatalities, according to the World Health Organization.
登革热是一种由蚊子传播的疾病，会引起发热、头痛、恶心及关节肌肉疼痛的症状。在几个病例中，该疾病会引发登革出血热，症状为严重出血，循环系统衰竭。这种疾病对于儿童来说尤其危险，可能会导致死亡，不过世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)表示，通过恰当医治，导致死亡的病例不到1%。
Eighteen deaths associated with dengue this year have been confirmed, the C.D.C. of Taiwan said on Tuesday, and an additional 34 deaths are being investigated for links to the disease.
台湾疾病管制署周二表示，今年累计有18例死因与登革热相关，另有34例的死因正在调查。
Tainan has been the center of the outbreak, with 8,666 of the 9,862 cases reported in Taiwan since May 1, including 237 reported on Monday. Kaohsiung has been the second hardest hit, with 1,030 cases, including 50 reported on Monday.
台南是疫情爆发中心，自5月1日以来台湾报告了10384例登革热病例，台南占9103例，其中包括周一报告的237例。高雄是疫情第二严重的地区，出现1108例病例，其中包括周一报告的50例。
The tourism industry in Tainan, known for its temples and quiet lanes, has suffered because of the outbreak, with visitors down by about 50 percent over the same period last year, the United Daily News reported on Sunday. “The mosquitoes have returned Tainan to Tainan residents,” the newspaper’s headline read, citing a popular Facebook post.
《联合报》周日报道称，以寺庙和安静的小巷著称的台湾旅游业，因为疫情的爆发受到影响，游客人数同比减少了大约50%。该报文章的标题引用了一个广受欢迎的Facebook帖子，称“蚊子把台南还给台南人”。
The command center established by the central government includes representatives of the Environmental Protection Administration and the ministries of National Defense and Health and Welfare. The goal is to aid cross-regional prevention efforts, according to a statement from Sun Lih-chyun, a spokesman for the Executive Yuan, Taiwan’s cabinet. Over the past month, Taiwan has dispatched more than 2,500 troops to help with prevention efforts, including spraying insecticide in potential mosquito breeding sites.
中央政府设立的指挥中心工作人员包括行政院环境保护署、国防部及卫生福利部的代表。台湾行政院发言人孙立群(Sun Lih-chyun)表示，成立该中心是为了支持跨区域预防工作。在过去一个月中，台湾派出逾2500名士兵帮助开展预防工作，比如到潜在的蚊子繁殖场所喷洒杀虫剂。
Dengue outbreaks are seasonal, with the number of cases expected to decline as temperatures cool in the fall. One year ago, the southern Chinese province of Guangdong recorded one of its worst outbreaks in years, and Japan recorded its first cases of the disease since 1945.
登革热疫情是季节性的，随着秋季气温的降低，病例数将会下降。一年前，中国南部省份广东省遭遇了多年来最严重的登革热疫情，日本也出现了自1945年以来的首批登革热病例。
In recent decades, the disease, which is caused by a virus carried by Aedes mosquitoes, has risen sharply around the world because of urbanization, population growth, climate change, increasing international trade and an explosion in trash that mosquitoes can use as breeding sites, according to the World Health Organization.
世界卫生组织透露，近几十年来，由于城镇化发展、人口增长、气候变化、国际贸易的日益增长和垃圾——蚊子的繁殖场所——的激增，这种由伊蚊携带的病毒引发的疾病，在世界范围内急剧增加。