BANGKOK — The government of Vietnam, breaking its silence about a huge fish kill in April, said on Thursday that the coastal disaster was caused by a Taiwan-owned steel factory that discharged a combination of chemicals, including cyanide, into the ocean.
曼谷——越南政府打破了其对4月份大批鱼类死亡事件的沉默，于周四表示，此次沿海地区灾难的原因是一家台湾拥有的钢铁厂向海洋排放化学品造成的，排放的化学品中包括氰化物。
Mai Tien Dung, minister chairman of the government office, said the government was seeking $500 million in compensation from the Formosa Ha Tinh Steel Corporation for the chemical spill, which killed marine life and poisoned people along 120 miles of coastline in central Vietnam.
越南政府办公厅主任梅晋勇表示，政府正在向台塑河静钢铁公司索赔5亿美元的赔偿，此次化学品泄漏造成越南中部约200公里海岸线附近的海洋生物死亡，也导致人中毒。
Mr. Dung said at a crowded news conference in Hanoi that the spill had occurred during trial operation of the newly built factory’s wastewater discharge system.
梅晋勇在河内的一个有很多人出席的记者会上说，泄漏事件发生在这个新建工厂的污水排放系统试运行期间。
In a video played for reporters, the board chairman of Formosa Ha Tinh Steel, Tran Nguyen Thanh, acknowledged that the company, a subsidiary of the Formosa Plastics Group, had caused the spill.
在一段播放给记者的视频中，台塑河静钢铁公司董事长陈源成承认，泄漏是公司造成的。台塑河静钢铁公司是台塑集团下属的一家子公司。
“The company would like to take responsibility and apologize to Vietnam,” he said.
“公司愿意承担责任，并向越南道歉，”他说。
The spill, one of Vietnam’s largest environmental disasters, wiped out fish, squid and other marine life off the coast of four provinces south of the factory, destroying the livelihood of fishermen in the region.
此次泄漏事件是越南最大的环境灾难之一，导致钢铁厂以南四个省份的沿海地带大批鱼类、鱿鱼及其他海洋生物死亡，让该地区的渔民无法谋生。
Many tons of dead fish washed up on beaches in central Vietnam for days starting in early April. An untold number of people who ate the fish became sick before the government banned their consumption.
在四月初的很多天里，数吨的死鱼被海潮冲到越南中部的海滩上。在政府禁止消费这些鱼之前，有很多人因吃了鱼而生病。
Some criticized the government for withholding the names of the toxic agents even from poison victims and the doctors who were treating them.
一些人批评政府隐瞒有毒物质的名称，甚至不告诉受害者及为他们提供治疗的医生。
The disaster led to widespread anger at the government, with protesters demonstrating throughout the country for more than a month. But instead of providing answers, the government cracked down on the protests. More than 500 people were arrested, and some were beaten by the police.
这场灾难引发了民众对政府的普遍不满，全国各地的抗议活动持续了一个多月。但是，政府不但不提供答案，反而镇压抗议活动。有500多人被逮捕，还有一些人遭到警察的殴打。
The government has not disclosed the number of people who became ill nor has it offered an estimate of the damage to marine life.
政府仍未透露中毒者的名单，也没有给出海洋生物损失的估计。
In addition to cyanide, the government said the factory dumped phenols and iron hydroxide into the sea, creating a toxic mix. The government is still monitoring water quality offshore and has not declared the water safe for fishing within 20 nautical miles of the coast.
政府说，除了氰化物，工厂还把苯酚和氢氧化铁泄漏到大海里，这些都是剧毒物品。政府仍在监测沿海水域的水质，还未宣布距海岸线20海里以内的水域可以安全捕鱼。
Officials said that it had been necessary to restrict news coverage of the disaster while the investigation was underway.
政府官员说，在进行调查期间有必要限制有关灾难的新闻报道。
“Some forces took advantage of this incident to provoke, to cause unrest among the people,” said the minister of information and communications, Truong Minh Tuan.
“一些势力正是利用这一事件在人民中间挑起、引发动荡，”通信传媒部部长张明俊说。
The steel factory had been widely suspected of being responsible for the spill, especially after a company representative appeared to confirm that in April.
人们早就普遍怀疑该钢铁厂对泄漏负有责任，尤其是在公司一名代表4月份露面证实发生了泄漏之后。
“You have to decide whether to catch fish and shrimp or to build a modern steel industry,” he told reporters then. “Even if you are the prime minister, you cannot choose both.”
“你必须在捕鱼捉虾、或者建设现代化钢铁行业之间做出选择，”这位代表对记者说。“即使你是总理，你也不能同时选择两者。”
His comments prompted widespread criticism on social media and the creation of the popular hashtag #Ichoosefish. He was fired soon afterward.
他的言论在社交媒体上引来了广泛的批评，并导致热门标签#Ichoosefish的创建。这名代表后来很快被公司解雇了。
Before the news conference on Thursday, Formosa Ha Tinh Steel sent a letter to its employees blaming the fish kill on mistakes by its subcontractors, but without providing specifics.
在周四的新闻发布会之前，台塑河静钢铁厂向员工发了一份致员工信，在信中把鱼类的死亡归咎于一家承包商的失误，但没有提供具体的内容。
A company representative reached by phone in Ha Tinh Province said that the government’s investigation had found a violation of proper procedures but that the company had not been told what that violation was.
记者通过电话联系到公司在河静省的一名代表，他说，政府的调查发现存在操作违规问题，但公司并未被告知违反了什么规矩。
The government said that compensation paid by the company would go to aid fishing villages in the disaster zone, provide job training for fishermen who are out of work and rehabilitate the marine environment.
政府表示，公司支付的赔偿金将用于帮助受污染区的渔村，为无法谋生的渔民提供就业培训，以及帮助恢复海洋环境。