HONG KONG — Taiwan was battered Monday by the second large storm in days, in the wake of a typhoon that flooded streets, injured scores of people and forced more than 10,000 to flee their homes.
香港——台湾周一迎来几天中的第二场大暴雨。此前，一场台风导致台湾街道被淹，数十人受伤，迫使逾一万人离开家园。
Tropical Storm Haitang struck Monday on the heels of Typhoon Nesat, which made landfall on Taiwan’s northeastern coast on Saturday. With gusts over 100 miles per hour, Nesat sent trees crashing into cars, toppled motorbikes and kicked up broken glass and other debris that caused injuries, the authorities said.
继台风纳沙(Nesat)周六在台湾东北部海岸登陆后，热带风暴海棠周一登陆台湾。当局称，纳沙的风速超过每小时100英里（约合160公里），导致树砸到汽车、摩托车被掀翻、碎玻璃和其他碎片横飞，致人受伤。
No deaths had been reported as of Monday, which the authorities attributed to early warnings and evacuations that began on Friday. But the government said more than 100 people were injured by Nesat, many of them rescue workers who were struck by debris. One man in Yilan County, on the northeastern coast, was injured when a utility truck flipped.
截至周一，尚没有人员死亡的报道。当局把这归功于预警和始于周五的人员疏散。但政府称，纳沙造成100多人受伤，很多都是被碎片击中的救援人员。在地处东北海岸的宜兰县，一辆轻型货车侧翻，造成一名男子受伤。
By Monday, more than 100 people remained trapped by floodwaters, mostly in the country’s southern counties, according to the government’s Central Weather Bureau.
据政府的中央气象局介绍，到周一，仍有100多人被洪水围困，大部分位于台湾南部的县。
More than 400 flights have been canceled since Saturday, and more than half a million people were without electricity Monday, according to statistics published by the Central Disaster Emergency Operation Center.
中央灾害应变中心公布的统计数据显示，自周六以来已有400多个航班被取消，周一当天超过50万人无电可用。
After passing over Taiwan, Typhoon Nesat made landfall in mainland China on Sunday. More than 70,000 people were evacuated from the southeastern province of Fujian, according to news reports.
离开台湾后，台风纳沙周日登陆中国大陆。据新闻报道称，位于中国东南部的省份福建疏散了逾七万人。
The authorities in Taiwan warned that the heavy rains increased the risk of landslides, urging residents to beware of “falling rocks, mudslides and flash floods.”
台湾当局警告，大雨增加了发生滑坡的风险，敦促居民注意“落石、泥石流及山洪爆发”。
The deadliest typhoon to strike Taiwan in the past decade was Typhoon Morakot, which set off landslides in 2009 that left nearly 700 people dead.
过去十年里，台湾人员伤亡最惨重的是2009年的莫拉克台风(Typhoon Morakot)。后者引发滑坡，导致近700人死亡。