HONG KONG — A passenger plane crashed into a river in Taiwan’s capital, Taipei, shortly after takeoff on Wednesday morning, killing at least 23 people, officials said. Rescue operations were underway to pull survivors from the water.
香港——据台湾官员称，周三上午一架小型客机在起飞后不久坠落于台湾首都台北一河中，造成至少23人遇难。救援行动目前正在进行中，试图从水中救出幸存者。
The plane, a TransAsia Airways twin turboprop flying as Flight 235, had just left Taipei Songshan Airport bound for nearby Kinmen, an island just off the mainland Chinese province of Fujian, Taiwan’s Civil Aeronautics Administration said. Fifty-three passengers and five crew members were aboard, the agency said.
台湾交通部民用航空局称，坠落的复兴航空235班机是一架双涡轮螺旋桨飞机，原定于从台北松山机场飞往中国大陆福建省附近的金门岛，机上有53名乘客和5名机组人员。
At least 23 people were killed, with 15 others injured and the remainder unaccounted for, the agency said early Wednesday evening.
台湾官媒中央新闻社周三晚报道，事故造成至少23人遇难，另有15人受伤，余者情况不明。
Dramatic images taken from car dashboard cameras and posted online showed the plane flying low over an elevated highway, its left wing clipping the road before it crashed into the river. The plane struck a taxi, injuring two people inside, the Taipei government said.
一组发布到网上由汽车仪表盘摄像机拍摄的惊险画面显示，飞机坠河前在一座高架桥上方低空飞行，左翼撞上公路。台湾政府称，一辆出租车受到飞机撞击，车内2人受伤，
Local television showed the plane’s white and purple fuselage resting in the Keelung River in eastern Taipei, as rescuers in inflatable boats searched for survivors.
在当地电视台播放的画面中，飞机白紫相间的机身目前在台北东部的基隆河上，援救人员正乘充气艇搜寻幸存者。
Rescuers were having difficulty reaching the submerged parts of the plane, a city government statement quoted Hsu Ching-sheng, a deputy fire chief, as saying. Because the plane traveled some distance after striking the road, emergency responders have had to expand their search area to account for the possibility that people were thrown from the plane, Mr. Hsu added.
搜救人员在抵达机身淹没部分时遇到困难，台北市政府消防局副局长许景盛(Hsu Ching-sheng)在一份市政府声明中称。飞机在撞击公路后，滑动了一段距离，考虑到有人被甩出飞机的可能性，救护人员不得不扩大搜救范围，许景盛补充道。
Shortly before the crash, a pilot indicated an engine problem, according to a recording of the plane’s communication with air traffic control posted to a monitoring site. “Mayday, mayday. Engine flameout,” the pilot said.
根据监测点一段飞机与空中交通管理人员的对话，坠机前不久，一位飞行员报告了发动机故障，“求救，求救。发动机熄火(Mayday, mayday. Engine flameout)”飞行员说。
TransAsia Airways executives bowed in apology at a news conference Wednesday afternoon but offered no explanations as to what might have caused the crash.
复兴航空工作人员在周三下午召开的新闻发布会中鞠躬致歉，但没有为可能的事故原因做出解释。
The crash was the second for TransAsia in just over six months, following a crash in July that killed 48 people, and it seemed likely to raise further questions about the airline’s safety. The cause of the July crash is still under investigation; that plane, an ATR-72, was attempting to land at Magong, in Taiwan’s Penghu Islands, as Typhoon Matmo brought heavy rain and strong winds to the region.
此次坠机是仅六个多月以来该航空公司的第二起坠机事故。去年7月23日，复兴航空一架ATR-72型号飞机迫降造成48人死亡，该事故可能引起人们对该航空公司安全性的进一步疑问。7月坠机时间的原因目前仍在调查中。飞机当时试图在台湾澎湖岛的马公降落，正值台风“麦德姆”(Matmo)在该地区造成强降雨和强风。
The plane that crashed Wednesday, a French- and Italian-built ATR 72-600 similar to the model that crashed last year, was just over a year old, and it had gone into service in April 2014, TransAsia said.
复兴航空称，周三坠落的飞机是一架法国和意大利合资制造商产的ATR 72-600型飞机，与去年坠毁的飞机机型相似，机龄仅一年多，自2014年4月开始服役。
The carrier flies chiefly to Taiwan and mainland China, as well as destinations in Japan, Thailand, South Korea and Cambodia. The Taipei-Kinmen route, which takes just over an hour, is flown daily by TransAsia and is popular among the increasing number of Chinese tourists visiting Taiwan, as well as business travelers from Taiwan flying to the mainland.
复兴航空公司飞机主要飞往台湾和中国大陆，以及日本、泰国、韩国和柬埔寨。台北——金门线路仅耗时一小时多，是复兴航空每日一班的航线，在越来越多到访台湾的中国游客和由台湾飞往大陆的商务旅客中受到欢迎。