HONG KONG — After a prison hostage standoff in Taiwan that ended early Thursday with the suicides of six inmates, President Ma Ying-jeou condemned the hostage taking and called for a strengthening of prison oversight.
香港——周四清晨，台湾一所监狱发生的人质劫持事件以六名囚犯自杀告终。随后，总统马英九谴责了劫持人质的行为，并呼吁加强监狱管理。
“Compatriots have been shocked by the Kaohsiung Prison incident, which has revealed gaps in prison management,” Mr. Ma said in a written statement. He ordered a full review of the standoff at the penitentiary in southern Taiwan, with corrective measures to be put in place within a week.
“高雄监狱发生挟持人质事件，国人同感震惊，这显示现行监狱管理出现漏洞，”马英九在一份书面声明中表示。他指示彻查发生在台湾南部这所监狱的人质事件，并在一周之内出台改革措施。
The six inmates shot themselves early Thursday, while two prison staff members were released unharmed after being held for 14 hours, said Chen Ming-tang, a vice minister in the Justice Ministry.
法务部次长陈明堂称，这六名囚犯周四清晨饮弹自尽，而两名监狱工作人员在被劫持了14小时之后安全获释。
Cheng Li-te, a convicted murderer with ties to the Bamboo Union crime ring, led the hostage taking, according to the Justice Ministry, which said that the five other prisoners were all serving lengthy terms for crimes ranging from robbery to drug trafficking.
根据法务部的说法，带头的劫持者是与犯罪集团竹联帮有关的杀人犯郑立德。该机构称，另外五名囚犯均判有较长的刑期，罪名包括抢劫和贩毒。
The six inmates, who worked together in a prison shop, smuggled scissors into an infirmary on Wednesday, then stabbed two officers and took them hostage, the Justice Ministry said. They then used the officers’ keys to move through the prison, breaking into an armory and taking guns and ammunition.
法务部称，这六名囚犯一同在监狱商店里劳动。周三，他们把剪刀偷偷带进医务室，捅伤并劫持了两名工作人员。他们随后利用工作人员的钥匙穿过监狱，闯入了一间枪械室，夺走了一些枪支和弹药。
The prison warden, Chen Shih-chih, and head guard, Wang Shih-tsang, then changed places with the two officers who had been taken hostage, Mr. Chen said.
陈明堂称，后来，典狱长陈世志和戒护科长王世仓把被劫为人质的两名管理员替换了出来。
Taiwan news outlets broadcast a series of grievances from the men about their trials and the conditions inside the prison. The six men also complained that former President Chen Shui-bian, who was convicted of embezzlement and taking bribes in 2009, had been released on medical parole in January, which they saw as unfairly lenient.
台湾的新闻媒体报道了这些囚犯对法庭审判和监狱内部条件的种种抱怨。这六名男子还对前总统陈水扁今年1月保外就医表示不满，认为他得到了优待。陈水扁2009年被判挪用公款和收受贿赂罪名成立。
Hundreds of armed police officers surrounded the prison throughout the night. The two sides exchanged gunfire at two points as the hostage takers apparently sought to escape and then tried to ward off surrounding officers, according to Taiwan's Central News Agency.
夜里，数百名荷枪实弹的警察包围了监狱。台湾中央通讯社报道，双方两度交火，劫持人质的囚犯似乎想要逃走，随后又试图击退包围他们的警察。
Judicial officials said they negotiated with the prisoners through the evening on Wednesday and also asked family members to confer with them. Chang An-lo, who has long had ties with the Bamboo Union and who served a decade in prison in the United States on drug charges, also came to the prison and offered to speak with the men.
法务官员称，他们与囚犯的谈判持续了周三整个晚上，并让家属劝说他们。曾在美国因毒品指控服刑10年并与竹联帮有长期关系的张安乐也来到现场，提出与六人对话。