HONG KONG — Hundreds of people were being treated at hospitals in Taiwan on Sunday after a night of wild revelry at a water park near the capital turned into a hellish nightmare when airborne, colored powder being sprayed onto partygoers ignited.
香港——数百名伤者周日在台湾的多家医院接受治疗。在一家位于台北附近的水上乐园，空中飘洒的彩色粉末喷到派对参与者的身上起火，一晚的狂欢变成了地狱般的噩梦。
No deaths were reported, but as of Sunday evening, 498 people had been sent to 43 area hospitals, with 202 sustaining serious injuries, according to the website of the Public Health Department of New Taipei City, where the incident took place, outside of Taipei. The injured, many suffering from serious burns and smoke inhalation, were overwhelmingly young, in their 20s or younger, with one 18-year-old woman receiving burns on 90 percent of her body, according to the official Central News Agency.
根据事故发生地，台北城外的新北市政府卫生局(Public Health Department of New Taipei City)网站的消息，没有人员死亡的报告，但截至周日晚，498人被送往了43家地区医院，其中202人伤势严重。据官方的中央通讯社报道，伤者绝大多数是30岁以下的年轻人，许多人严重烧伤并曾吸入烟尘，其中一位18岁女孩全身90%烧伤。
Video taken at the scene showed the flames erupting within the crowd at the event — called Color Play Asia and organized by a group using the same name — about 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, after nightfall.
现场拍摄的录像显示，周六晚上天黑之后8点30分左右，火焰在活动的人群中喷出。活动名为“Color Play Asia”（彩色派对），由一家同名的组织主办。
Some people were shown carrying the injured from the scene in inflatable rafts, and others were shown running away, silhouetted by flames. The fire was quickly controlled, but not before hundreds were hurt.
一些人用充气筏将伤者从现场运送出来，其他人则四散奔逃，火焰中只留下身影的轮廓。火势很快得到控制，但仍有数百人受伤。
Taiwan’s Ministry of Health and Welfare said on its website that Taipei-area hospitals had victims requiring skin grafts. The ministry said hospitals were also urgently requesting other medical supplies needed to treat burns.
台湾卫生福利部(Taiwan’s Ministry of Health and Welfare)在其网站上称，台北地区的医院有大量伤员需要进行植皮，医院同时急需治疗烧伤所需的其他医疗用品。
The victims were mostly from Taiwan, but among the injured were four people from Hong Kong, one person from the United States, one from Singapore, one from Japan, one from Macau and one from Malaysia, according to the local public health department.
据当地公共卫生部门的消息，伤者大部分来自台湾，但也包括4名香港人，1名美国人，1名新加坡人，1名日本人，1名澳门人和1名马来西亚人。
The public’s focus immediately turned to the colored powder — what the organizer claimed on its Facebook page to be cornstarch mixed with food coloring — that was sprayed at high velocity on revelers from a stage. Many people asked how, if it was flammable, the mixture was allowed to be used at such events, several of which have taken place in Taiwan in recent years.
公众关注的焦点迅速转向了彩色粉末。组织方在其Facebook页面上称，在舞台上向狂欢者高速喷洒的是玉米淀粉和食用色素的混合物。许多人质疑如果这是可燃的，为何会被允许在此类活动中使用。近年来台湾也多次举办过类似活动。
Taiwan’s prime minister, Mao Chi-kuo, told reporters on Sunday that events using airborne, colored powder would be banned and that the government would set up a group to deal with the treatment and rehabilitation of people who were injured.
台湾行政院长毛治国(Mao Chi-kuo)周日告诉记者，向空中喷洒彩色粉末的活动将被禁止，政府将成立小组，处理伤者的治疗与康复事宜。
President Ma Ying-jeou also visited some of the hospitalized victims, saying that the government would spare no effort to assist families and hold those responsible accountable, CNA reported.
据中央通讯社报道，总统马英九(Ma Ying-jeou)也探望了部分住院的伤者，称政府将不遗余力地帮助这些家庭，同时追究相关人员的责任。
The one-day event, with a capacity of 4,000 people, was billed as the biggest “color party” in Asia and was meant to run from 1 p.m. until 11 p.m. on Saturday.
这次为期一天，最多可容纳4000人的活动自诩是亚洲最大的“彩色派对”活动。活动时间原计划为周六下午1点至晚上11点。
Speaking to reporters, Chen Huiying — the general manager of the park, Formosa Fun Coast — expressed sorrow for the injuries. But she added that the event, while it took place on her company’s site northwest of Taipei, was organized by another company.
八仙水上乐园总经理陈慧颖对记者说，她对事件造成的人员受伤表示悲痛。但她补充道，这个活动虽然是在她位于台北西北的公司场地举办的，但是是由另一家公司组织的。
Color Play Asia said on its Facebook page that its products were in line with standards set by SGS, which is a Geneva-based testing, inspection and verification company. No one from SGS was immediately available to comment on whether Color Play Asia’s products had received certification and whether that process also included tests for flammability.
“Color Play Asia”在其Facebook主页上称，其使用的产品符合SGS的标准。SGS是一家位于日内瓦的测试、检查和认证公司。目前SGS公司没有人员可以立即对Color Play Asia使用的产品是否获得了认证，并且过程是否包括可燃性测试一事作出回应。
On Sunday, Color Play Asia’s Facebook page was filled with comments expressing outrage that the event could have so quickly turned into an inferno. “The organizers just know about money, they don’t know about the dangers,” wrote someone going by the name of Kalin Chang. “I hope you give a reasonable explanation to all the families who have been hurt by this,” another person said.
周日，Color Play Asia的Facebook主页充满了对于活动竟会迅速变成人间地狱一事表达不满的评论。“组织方只知道钱，而对危险一无所知，”一位名叫Kalin Chang的用户写道。“我希望你可以给所有受到伤害的家庭一个合理的解释，”另一位用户写道。
CNA reported that the person responsible for the event, Lu Zhongji, as well as two others, had been taken to a nearby police station for questioning. The police may charge several people with negligence and public endangerment, the agency said. Mr. Lu, wearing a yellow T-shirt and a hospital face mask, was shown in custody, handcuffed to another person, his hands clasped together.
中央通讯社报道，活动的负责人吕忠吉与其他两人已被带往附近警局接受询问。警方可能会对几名工作人员提出涉嫌公共安全和业务过失重伤害罪的控诉。 身着黄色T恤，戴着医用口罩的吕忠吉已被羁押，与另一个人铐在一起，双手紧握。