A petrochemical company has apologized to the residents of Taiwan’s second-largest city following explosions that left 28 people dead and more than 300 injured.
一家石化公司已向台湾第二大城市的居民就发生爆炸表示道歉，爆炸导致了28人死亡，300多人受伤。
Bowei Lee, chairman of the Taipei-based LCY Chemical Corporation, said he “solemnly apologized to society” and, along with two other company executives, bowed before reporters at a news conference on Sunday. Separately, the company issued a statement saying it would not “shun any responsibility we should bear.”
总部在台北的李长荣化工（简称荣化）董事长李谋伟表示，公司“郑重地向社会大众致歉”，并和其他两位公司高管一起在周日的新闻发布会上面对记者鞠躬。公司在另外发表的声明中说，对“该负的责任绝不回避”。
LCY stopped short of accepting blame for the deadly explosions but said it was not hiding information and was cooperating with investigators. “We more than anyone want to know the cause,” it said in the statement.The authorities in Kaohsiung say the explosions that rocked the city in southern Taiwan last week were caused by leaks from an underground pipeline carrying the highly flammable gas propylene, which is used in the manufacture of plastics.
荣化还没有承担对致命爆炸的责任，但表示公司没有隐瞒信息，并在与调查人员合作。公司在声明中说，“我们比任何人都想知道原因。”高雄市政府表示，上周震撼这座位于台湾南部的城市的爆炸，是由于输送高度易燃气体丙烯的地下管线泄漏造成的，丙烯是生产塑料的原料。
Residents in the Cianjhen District of the city reported powerful chemical smells around 9 p.m. Thursday. At 8:43 p.m., the China General Terminal and Distribution Corporation had experienced a pressure drop in the pipeline it uses to transport the gas to LCY, Kaohsiung environmental officials said in a written statement. At 9:30 p.m., China General Terminal stopped the flow of the gas, but at 10 p.m., LCY asked it to resume the flow, Kaohsiung officials said.
上周四晚9点左右，高雄市前镇区的居民报告闻到强烈的化学气味。高雄市政府官员在一份书面声明中说，晚8时43分，华运仓储公司向李长荣化工输送丙烯的管道压力出现下降。晚9时30分，华运关闭了阀门，但在晚10点，荣化要求恢复气体供应，高雄官员说。
The local authorities fault LCY for not informing the Kaohsiung environmental bureau about the abnormality and for asking for the flow of the gas to be resumed, which meant the leak continued until the explosions erupted around midnight.
地方当局指责荣化没有向高雄环保局通报出现异常，而是要求恢复气体供应，这意味着让泄漏持续下去，直到午夜时分发生爆炸。