HONG KONG — A powerful typhoon pummeled Taiwan on Saturday, dumping rain, toppling trees and leaving millions without electricity as strong winds ripped across the island.
香港——周六，强台风袭击台湾。伴随着席卷全岛的强风，大雨倾盆，树木倒地，数百万人家中停电。
At least six people were killed, Taiwan’s Interior Ministry said, including in its count people who had died Thursday and Friday as the storm approached. Five people were reported missing, and more than 60 were injured, many by flying debris, the ministry said.
台湾内政部称，至少有六人死亡。这个统计数据包括周四和周五风暴逼近时的遇难者人数。内政部表示，有五人失踪，60多人受伤，很多是被飞来的杂物击中。
The storm, called Soudelor, had registered as the strongest of 2015 as it blew across the western Pacific days earlier. But it had weakened by the time it made landfall in eastern Taiwan early Saturday, and it continued to do so as it crossed the island and headed toward China.
几天前席卷西太平洋时，名为“苏迪勒”（Soudelor，又译“苏迪罗”——译注）的这场台风，就被列为2015年的最强台风。但到周六凌晨登陆台湾东部时，风暴强度已有所减弱。在横扫该岛并向大陆移动时，其强度继续减弱。
The storm arrived with wind speeds of more than 100 miles per hour near its center, with gusts approaching 130 m.p.h., Taiwan’s Central Weather Bureau said. The storm’s impact with the steep slopes of eastern Taiwan set off heavy rainfall, with 30 inches falling on Taiping Mountain in the northeast over the first 12 hours of Saturday.
台湾中央气象局称，台风登陆时，其中心附近的风速超过每小时100英里，还伴有速度接近每小时130英里的狂风。台风触及台湾东部的陡峭山坡时，产生了强降雨。周六午前的12小时，台湾东北部的太平山地区降雨量达到了30英寸（约合76厘米）。
Strong winds brought down electrical lines, leaving more than two million households without power on Saturday morning, said the Taiwan Power Company, the state-owned utility.
官方所有的公用事业单位台湾电力公司称，由于电线被大风吹落，周六上午超过200万户家庭停电。
A woman and her daughter were killed and another daughter was reported missing after they were caught in heavy ocean swells Thursday along Taiwan’s northeastern coast, the National Fire Agency said. Early Saturday morning, a drunken driver hit two firefighters who were removing a fallen tree from a road, killing one and injuring another, the agency said.
内政部消防署称，周四在台湾东北部海岸，一名女子及其两个女儿落海，导致该女子和一个女儿身亡，另一个女儿失踪。消防署还表示，周六凌晨，两名消防员在把倒下的树从路面移开时，被一名酒驾司机撞倒，一人死亡，一人受伤。
Another man was killed in Yilan County late Friday when he was hit by an object believed to be a sign, according to the fire agency. On Saturday, an 80-year-old man drowned when floodwaters entered his home in New Taipei City, and another man was killed by a falling tree in the southern city of Kaohsiung.
据消防署介绍，周五晚上，宜兰县另一名男子被据信是一块招牌的物体砸中，当场死亡。周六，一名80岁的男子在洪水进入其位于新北市的家中后被淹死。同一天，在位于台湾南部的高雄市，一名男子被倒下的树砸死。
The center of the typhoon left Taiwan’s western shore by 11 a.m. Saturday, as the storm headed west toward the Chinese province of Fujian, weakening as it went. Tropical Storm Risk, a British weather company, said the storm was a Category 3 typhoon when it made landfall in Taiwan, dropped to Category 2 by midday and would be Category 1 by the time it reached Fujian late Saturday, with maximum sustained winds under 95 m.p.h.
到周六上午11点，随着风暴向西朝福建方向移动，且强度在移动过程中减弱，台风中心离开台湾西部海岸。英国气象公司热带风暴风险(Tropical Storm Risk)称，风暴登陆台湾时属于3级台风，到正午时已减弱至2级，到周六晚上抵达福建时，可能会变成1级，最大持续风速可能在每小时95英里以下。
About 158,000 people were evacuated in Fujian before the storm’s arrival, according to Xinhua, China’s state-run news agency.
据中国官方通讯社新华社报道，在风暴抵达前，福建已疏散转移约15.8万人。