The typhoon that struck the Philippines produced an outpouring of emotion Monday at United Nations talks on a global climate treaty in Warsaw, where delegates were quick to suggest that a warming planet turned the storm into a lethal monster.
周一，在联合国于波兰华沙举行的一场关于全球气候条约的会议上，肆虐菲律宾的台风让与会者群情激愤，他们很快指出，全球变暖是把这场风暴变成噬人妖魔的罪魁祸首。
Olai Ngedikes, the lead negotiator for an alliance of small island nations, said in a statement that Typhoon Haiyan, which by some estimates killed 10,000 people in one city alone, “serves as a stark reminder of the cost of inaction on climate change and should serve to motivate our work in Warsaw.”
奥莱·恩迪克斯(Olai Ngedikes)是一个由小岛国组成的联盟的首席谈判代表。他在一则声明中说，台风海燕“作为一个极端的例子，提醒我们对气候变化无动于衷会造成怎样的后果，而且也应当激励我们在华沙努力工作”。一些估测数据显示，此次台风仅在一个城市就造成1万人死亡。
Naderev Saño, the chief representative of the Philippines at the conference, said he would stop eating in solidarity with the storm victims until “a meaningful outcome is in sight.”
出席会议的菲律宾首席代表纳德莱夫·萨诺(Naderev Saño)说，为了与风灾难民同甘共苦，他决定停止进食，直到“前方出现了有意义的结果”。
“What my country is going through as a result of this extreme climate event is madness; the climate crisis is madness,” Mr. Saño said. “We can stop this madness right here in Warsaw.”
“我的国家经受的灾难，是极端天气事件的结果，情况十分严峻；气候危机也十分严峻，”萨诺说。“我们在华沙，能够阻止这场疯狂的灾难。”
His declaration, coupled with the scope of the disaster, moved many of the delegates to tears. Yet scientists remain cautious about drawing links between extreme storms like Haiyan and climate change. There is not enough data, they say, to draw conclusions about any single storm.
菲律宾承受重大风灾之际，他的宣言让许多与会代表动情落泪。然而科学家仍然很警惕，不愿在“海燕”这样的极端风暴与气候变化之间，确定直接的关联。他们表示，数据尚不充分，无法就任何一场单独的风灾得出结论。
“Whether we’re seeing some result of climate change, we find that impossible to find out,” said Kerry A. Emanuel, an atmospheric scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)大气科学家凯利·A·伊曼纽尔(Kerry A. Emanuel)说，“对于我们见到的是不是气候变化的后果这个问题，我们认为并不能确定。”
Scientists largely agree that it appears that storms will become more powerful as the climate changes. Dr. Emanuel helped write a 2010 study, for example, that forecast that the average intensity of hurricanes and typhoons — different names for the same phenomenon — would increase by up to 11 percent by the end of the century.
科学家基本上认同，随着气候的变化，风暴的力量似乎也会变得更强。例如，伊曼纽尔博士帮助撰写了2010年的一份研究报告，预测到本世纪末，飓风和台风（这两个词是同一现象的不同说法）的平均强度增幅最高达11%。
Haiyan, with winds of at least 150 miles an hour, was considered one of the strongest storms to make landfall on record. “The data suggests that things like this will be more frequent with global warming,” said James P. Kossin, an atmospheric scientist with the National Climatic Data Center.
“海燕”的风速至少有150英里每小时（约合67米每秒），被认为是有记录以来登陆的最强风暴之一。美国国家气候数据中心(National Climatic Data Center)大气科学家詹姆斯·P·科新(James P. Kossin)说，“数据显示，这样的事件随着全球变暖，将会变得更加频繁。”
Dr. Emanuel said that as the planet warms because of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases, the difference between sea and air temperatures increases. It is this difference that fuels these kinds of cyclonic storms.
伊曼纽尔表示，随着二氧化碳和其他能吸收热量的气体令地球变暖，海洋温度和空气温度之间的差异就会增大。正是这种温差催生了这种灾害性的风暴。
“As you warm the climate, you basically raise the speed limit on hurricanes,” he said.
他说，“让气候变得更温暖，基本上相当于为飓风提高了速度上限。”
As with Hurricane Sandy last year in the United States, powerful storm surges contributed to the deaths and destruction in the Philippines. And Dr. Kossin and others noted that one of the impacts of climate change — an overall rise in sea levels — is sure to worsen storm surges. While factors like wind speed, storm track, geography and the timing of tides affect the height and extent of a surge and the damage it causes, a higher sea level baseline will lead to a higher surge.
就像飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)去年在美国肆虐时一样，强大的风暴潮也在菲律宾造成了巨大的伤亡和破坏。科新博士以及其他人也提到，气候变化产生的一个影响，即海平面整体上升，肯定加剧了风暴潮。尽管风速、风暴路径、地理环境和潮汐时间等因素也会影响潮涌的高度、程度，以及造成的破坏，但是海平面基线的升高的确会造成潮涌升高。
“When you strip everything else away, we’re seeing a general rise in sea level,” Dr. Kossin said. “There’s no question that storm surge is going to be compounded.”
“要是把其他所有东西都去掉，我们就会看到海平面的普遍升高，”科新说。“毫无疑问会加剧风暴潮。”
The effect of climate change on storms in the Pacific is especially difficult to study, scientists said, because no governments fly research planes into storms to gather data. In the Atlantic the United States government regularly sends reconnaissance flights into hurricanes, but the last regular flights into Pacific typhoons — also by American aircraft — occurred more than a quarter of a century ago. “Since then, we’ve been pretty much blind,” Dr. Emanuel said.
科学家们表示，气候变化对太平洋上的风暴造成的影响尤其难以研究，因为没有哪个国家的政府会派遣飞机进入风暴中心进行研究，采集数据。在大西洋上，美国政府时常会派遣侦察机进入风暴中心，但进入太平洋台风中心的最近的经常性飞行任务，距今也已经有四分之一个世纪了，那些任务也是美国飞机执行的。伊曼纽尔说，“从那时开始，我们基本上一直是两眼一抹黑。”
Instead, researchers have to rely on remote sensing data from satellites that essentially detect the degree of cloud cover, and use pattern-recognition software and algorithms to come up with estimates of storm intensity. Dr. Kossin used that data in a 2008 study of the Pacific that found “that the strongest storms are getting stronger,” he said.
于是研究人员只得依赖卫星取得的遥感数据，而这些数据实质上测定的是云层的表面，之后再使用模式识别软件和程序算法来估算出风暴的强度。科新在2008年对太平洋开展的一次研究中就使用了这样的数据，他说，那项研究发现“最强的风暴正在变得更强”。
The Warsaw negotiations, which will last about two weeks, are another step in a long effort to replace a weak treaty, the Kyoto Protocol, which failed to slow the growth of greenhouse gas emissions, with a new one that would take effect in 2020.
正在华沙举行的谈判将持续两个星期，它只是制定一份2020年生效的新条约，从而取代《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)的漫长努力中的又一个步骤。《京都议定书》力度薄弱，未能减缓温室气体排放量的增长。
The Philippines disaster is likely to be cited by delegates debating one of the main issues, a longstanding fight about climate justice. As global warming proceeds, some of the poorest people in the world, who have had the least to do with the burning of fossil fuels, stand to be among the primary victims in small island nations and in countries like Bangladesh, India and the Philippines.
就气候正义问题展开辩论的代表们，很有可能会把菲律宾的风灾当做论据。围绕这个问题的论战已经持续了很久，在这次会议上也是主要议题之一。随着全球变暖的加剧，世界上最贫困的一些人，会首当其冲成为主要的受害者。他们居住在小岛国，以及孟加拉国、印度和菲律宾等地，燃烧化石燃料的做法与他们的关系最小。
Developing countries want the West, historically responsible for emissions, for the most part, to take the lead not only in reducing the use of fossil fuels, but to put up huge amounts of money to help poorer countries adapt to climatic changes that have already become inevitable. Western governments — which in some cases are already starting to consider their own adaptation to climate change — agree in principle that they should help poor countries. But they have committed relatively small sums, and they are wary of letting fast-growing countries like China off the hook on emissions.
发展中国家希望，西方不仅能在削减化石燃料的使用上扮演领导角色，而且要做出巨额资金投入，帮助穷国适应已经变得无法避免的气候变化，因为历史上温室气体排放的责任大部分要由西方承担。西方国家在某些情况下已经开始考虑自身对气候变化做出转变，这些国家的政府原则上同意应该帮助穷国，但它们承诺的资金相对较少，而且它们也担心，像中国这样的快速增长国家，会在排放问题上不受束缚。
Analysts say the likeliest outcome of the Warsaw negotiations is a weak pact that essentially urges countries to do what they can to cut emissions.
分析人士说，华沙谈判最可能出现的结果是一项孱弱的条约，基本上只能敦促各国尽其所能，减少排放。