LEGAZPI, the Philippines — As Typhoon Hagupit churned across the Philippines on Sunday, residents of the eastern part of the island nation expressed relief that they had joined the hundreds of thousands who had evacuated to safer ground.
菲律宾黎牙实比——上周日，随着台风“哈格比”(Hagupit)席卷整个菲律宾，该岛国东部居民表示欣慰，因为他们和其他数十万人已经被疏散到安全地带。
Eleanor Llaneta, 60, decided to follow the advice of her neighborhood captain and leave her home in Albay Province, on the southeastern tip of Luzon Island, on Friday, more than a day before Typhoon Hagupit made landfall.
埃莉诺·兰尼塔(Eleanor Llaneta)现年60岁，她听从居民区负责人的建议，于上周五离开了自己在吕宋岛东南端阿尔拜省的家，比台风“哈格比”抵达提前了一天多时间。
In past years she might have considered staying put, but a year’s worth of news about the devastation of Typhoon Haiyan, which left more than 7,300 people dead or missing after hitting the Philippines in November 2013, convinced her that prudence was the best course.
如果是过去几年，她可能会考虑留在家里，但台风“海燕”2013年11月袭击菲律宾，导致逾7300人死亡或失踪，这一年来相关新闻不断，所以她相信，谨慎是最好的选择。
“We only knew about storm surges after Tacloban,” said Ms. Llaneta, referring to the city that Haiyan left filled with mud, debris and dead bodies just over one year ago.
“塔克洛班出事之后，我们才知道有风暴潮这种东西，”兰尼塔说。她指的是一年多之前，海燕袭击塔克洛班后，这座城市变得满是泥土、瓦砾和尸体。
By late Sunday, what had been classified as a super typhoon was far weaker than Haiyan was when it hit, and was continuing to weaken. The storm, which is expected to push its way across the country until Wednesday, was generating strong winds and rain, but the overall effect was not as devastating as worst-case scenarios had anticipated.
到周日晚间为止，超级台风“哈格比”的威力远不如“海燕”巨大，而且还在继续减弱。预计这场风暴将席卷菲律宾各地，直到周三。它带来了强风和暴雨，但整体破坏性没有人们预期的最坏情况那么糟糕。
The government announced Sunday evening that at least three people were confirmed to have been killed by the storm, including a 1-year-old girl and a 65-year-old man who both died of hypothermia in the central province of Iloilo.  The president’s office said “reports of a few casualties have unfortunately been received” from the town of Dolores, where the storm first made landfall, but the full toll there was not clear.
周日晚上，政府宣布，已经证实至少有3人在风暴中遇难，其中有一名1岁女孩和一名65岁的男子，两人都是在菲律宾中部的伊洛伊洛省因为体温过低丧生的。总统办公室说，“不幸收到了”来自多洛雷斯的一些伤亡报告，那是“哈格比”登陆的第一个地方，但该地的完整伤亡数字尚不清楚。
In Albay Province, Ms. Llaneta and about 560,000 others were evacuated ahead of the storm, according to local officials. As of 4 a.m. Sunday more than 1.2 million people had been evacuated nationwide, Gwendolyn Pang, secretary general of the Philippine Red Cross, wrote on Facebook.
在阿尔拜省，兰尼塔和大约56万人在风暴到来之前被疏散了，地方官员们说。到周日凌晨四点，菲律宾全国有逾120万人被疏散，菲律宾红十字会秘书长彭美玉(Gwendolyn Pang)在Facebook上写道。
Hagupit is expected to hopscotch across islands as it makes its way west. Maximum sustained winds near the center had dropped to about 100 miles an hour by Sunday morning, but the slow churn over the nation could dump large amounts of rain, setting off floods and mudslides.
“哈格比”在向西部移动的时候，预计会跳动着穿过整个岛屿。周日早晨，近中心最大持续风速降至约每小时100英里，但这样的缓慢移动可能会将大量雨水倾倒在菲律宾，引发洪水和泥石流。
With full assessments of damaged areas far from finished, the government is not ready to declare success publicly in riding out the storm. Still, officials and aid workers sounded notes of optimism that darker predictions of the storm’s destructiveness would not materialize.
受灾区域的全面评估还远未结束，政府尚不准备公开声明已经成功度过了这场风暴。不过，官员和救援人员表现得很乐观，他们觉得，关于这场风暴破坏性的可怕预言不会实现。
“The picture looks O.K. so far in the daylight,” said Kate Marshall, a spokeswoman for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. “But we still don’t know what happens when the typhoon moves northwest.”
“迄今为止，白天的状况看上去还行，”红十字会与红新月会国际联合会(International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies)发言人凯特·马歇尔(Kate Marshall)说。“但是，我们仍然不知道当台风向西北移动时，会发生什么事。”
Nearly a day after Hagupit hit, Albay had yet to record a storm-related death or serious injury, said Jukes Nunez, an Albay special operations officer. “Disaster preparedness, we want to make it part of daily life, just like brushing your teeth,” Mr. Nunez said. “We are one of the most vulnerable areas in the Philippines.”
“哈格比”登陆将近一天之后，阿尔拜尚未出现与风暴相关的死亡或重伤记录，阿尔拜的特殊行动官员朱克斯·努涅斯(Jukes Nunez)说。“我们希望备灾能成为日常生活中的习惯，就像刷牙一样，”努涅斯说。“阿尔拜是菲律宾最脆弱的地区之一。”
The Mayon volcano rises over Albay, adding a further risk of landslides to the wind, floods and storm surges that often follow typhoons. In 2006, Typhoon Durian dumped heavy rain on the area, setting off mudslides that buried villages below Mayon and killing more than 1,000 people.
马荣火山(Mayon Volcano)矗立在阿尔拜，因此在这里，台风不仅可能带来风、洪水和风暴潮，还会有山体滑坡的风险。2006年，台风“榴莲”给该地区带来的暴雨引发了泥石流，掩埋了马荣下面的村庄，导致逾千人丧生。
One significant development in disaster preparedness here is a much wider knowledge of the threat from storm surges, the walls of water pulled along by typhoons that can quickly flood low-lying coastal areas. In Tacloban last year a wall of water from Typhoon Haiyan ripped across a peninsular neighborhood known as San Jose, crumpling cement houses and causing many deaths.
这里的备灾活动出现了一个显著进步，就是有远比从前更多的人，对台风带来的风暴潮威胁有所了解。它是台风卷起的巨浪，能够迅速淹没沿海的低洼地区。去年，在塔克洛班，台风“海燕”卷起的巨浪横扫了半岛上一个名为圣何塞的居民区，水泥房屋遭到损毁，导致很多人丧生。
An assessment of that disaster by a German government-funded sustainable development agency said that many residents in Tacloban — where the storm surge was the cause of most of the fatalities — had not been familiar with the risks and did not evacuate. “Serious warnings and more effective evacuations along the coastline could have saved many lives,” the report said.
德国政府资助的一个可持续发展机构对那场灾难进行了评估，指出在塔克洛班，导致绝大多数人死亡的罪魁祸首是风暴潮，而那里的居民不了解它的威胁有多大，所以没有撤离，“在沿岸地区发布郑重警告，进行更加有效的疏散，可以挽救许多人的生命，”该报告称。
In the year since Haiyan, residents have been exposed to much more discussion about the risks of typhoons, and evacuees in the city of Legazpi said that had contributed to their willingness to leave their homes.
在“海燕”灾难发生后的一年中，居民接触到了更多关于台风风险的讨论，黎牙实比市的撤离者说，这种讨论让他们变得更加愿意离开自己的家园。