CEBU, Philippines —Three days after one of the most powerful storms ever to buffet the Philippines, the scale of the devastation and the desperation of the survivors were slowly coming into view.
菲律宾宿务——菲律宾史上最强暴风雨之一结束三天后，破坏的规模和幸存者的绝望正在慢慢显现。
The living told stories of the dead or dying — the people swept away in a torrent of seawater, the corpses strewn haphazardly among the wreckage. Photos from the hard-hit city of Tacloban showed vast stretches of land swept clean of homes, and reports emerged of people who were desperate for food and water raiding aid convoys and stripping the stores that were left standing.
生还者讲述着死者或垂死者的故事：那些人被湍急的海潮卷走，遇难者遗体散落在残骸之间。从受灾严重的塔克洛班传来的照片显示，大片土地上的房屋悉数被卷走，诸多新闻报道讲述迫切需要食物和水的民众突袭救援车队，抢劫幸存下来的商店。
As Monday dawned, it became increasingly clear that Typhoon Haiyan had ravaged cities, towns and fishing villages when it played a deadly form of hopscotch across the islands of the central Philippines on Friday. By some estimates, at least 10,000 people may have died in Tacloban alone, and with phone service out across stretches of the far-flung archipelago, it was difficult to know if the storm was as deadly in more remote areas.
周一到来之后，有一点越来越清楚：台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)周五跳房子似的横扫菲律宾中部各岛屿，摧毁了多座城市、集镇和渔村。根据一些估计数字，仅在塔克洛班就可能有至少1万人死亡。鉴于这个偏远群岛的大片地区电话服务已经中断，因此很难知道，这场暴风雨是否在一些更偏僻的地方造成了同样严重的人员伤亡。
Barreling across palm-fringed beaches and plowing into frail homes with a force that by some estimates approached that of a tornado, Haiyan delivered a crippling blow to this country’s midsection. The culprit increasingly appeared to be a storm surge that was driven by those winds, which were believed to be among the strongest ever recorded in the Philippines, lifting a wall of water onto the land as they struck. By some accounts, the winds raged ashore at 190 miles per hour.
“海燕”淹没了棕榈树环绕的海滩，闯进不甚牢固的房屋，给菲律宾中部地区带来了致命的一击。据估计，“海燕”的力量接近龙卷风的力量。灾难的元凶越来越像是由强风引起的风暴潮，强风把水墙卷到了陆地上，风力据信达到了菲律宾有史以来的最强之列。据说，那些强风抵达陆地时的速度为每小时190英里（约合306公里）。
As aid crews struggled to reach ravaged areas, the storm appeared to lay bare some of the perennial woes of the Philippines. The country’s roads and airports, long starved of money by corrupt and incompetent governments, are some of the worst in Southeast Asia and often make traveling long distances a trial in the best of times. On Monday, clogged with debris from splintered buildings and shattered trees, the roads in the storm’s path were worse, slowing rescue teams.
救援人员奋力赶往受灾地区之时，这场暴风雨似乎暴露出了菲律宾的一些老大难问题。长期以来，因为政府的腐败和无能，该国的公路和机场资金匮乏，糟糕程度居于东南亚之冠，最好的时节也往往会让长途旅行变成一次磨难。周一，暴风雨过境地区的公路情况变得更加糟糕，到处都是残垣断壁和碎木断枝，阻碍了救援队伍。
The storm also posed new challenges for President Benigno S. Aquino III, who just two months ago struggled to wrest back a major city in the south from insurgents. Mr. Aquino has won plaudits at home and abroad for his fight against corruption during his three and a half years in office, leading to increased foreign investment and an impressive growth rate, but he must still contend with Muslim separatists in the south and provinces that have long been the fiefdoms of regional strongmen and have been resistant to government control.
暴风雨也给总统贝尼尼奥·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)带来了新挑战。两个月前，阿基诺刚刚艰难地从叛乱分子手里夺回了南部的一个大城市。在位的三年半时间里，阿基诺打击腐败，带来了外国投资的增加和令人印象深刻的增长速度，由此赢得了国内外的称赞。但他仍须同南部和部分省份的穆斯林分裂分子作斗争。长期以来，那些省份一直是地区强人的势力范围，抗拒政府的控制。
Now add to that list a storm that is threatening to be one of the country’s worst natural disasters, at a time when emergency funds have been depleted by a series of other calamities, most notably an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.2 that struck the middle of the country four weeks ago. On Monday, after the reports of widespread raiding of stores and robberies and rising fears of a breakdown of law and order, the government said it was flying more police to the central Philippines.
如今，挑战清单上又多了一场暴风雨，这场暴风雨可能会成为该国最严重的自然灾害之一。它来临之际，一系列其他灾难，其中最有名的是四周前袭击该国中部的那场7.2级地震，已经耗尽了应急资金。诸多报道称袭击商店和抢劫现象普遍发生，人们越来越担心法律和秩序将会崩溃，有鉴于此，政府于周一表示，正在用飞机向菲律宾中部运送更多警力。
Although deadly storms are not unusual in the Philippines, Typhoon Haiyan appears to stand apart, both in the ferocity of its winds, which some described as sounding like a freight train, and in its type of destruction. The usual cause of death from typhoons in the Philippines is from mudslides and river flooding, as waterways swell with rainwater.
造成人员伤亡的暴风雨在菲律宾并不罕见，但台风“海燕”依然与众不同。这既是因为它强劲的风力，也是因为它造成的破坏类型。有人说，强风听起来像是一列货运火车。在菲律宾，台风当中的常见死因是泥石流和河流涨水泛洪。
So when Haiyan sped across the islands on Friday, some officials and weather experts in the Philippines thought they had witnessed something of a miracle. The storm that lit up social media for days with dire warnings was thought to have mostly spared the islands because it did not linger long enough to dump a deluge of rainwater.
因此，当“海燕”周五横扫各岛时，菲律宾的部分官员和天气专家以为自己看到的是一场奇迹。此前多天，它一直是社交媒体上的热门话题，伴随着严重的警告。当时人们认为，“海燕”多半不会影响到那些岛屿，因为它停留的时间不足以导致雨水泛滥成洪水。
What they did not factor into their hopeful assessments was a storm surge that some reports said was 13 feet in Tacloban, and which left a trail of destruction that in some ways mirrored the aftermath of tsunamis. One photo of a large ship that was stranded onland resembled images from Japan in 2011, when an earthquake sent a wall of water crashing into its northeastern shore.
他们的乐观评估没有考虑到风暴潮。一些报道称，塔克洛班的风暴潮高达13英尺（约合4米），风暴潮一路留下的毁灭有些像是海啸过后的场景。一张照片显示一艘大船搁浅在岸上，看起来就像2011年在日本拍摄的那些照片一样，当时，一场地震导致一道水墙袭上日本东北部的海岸。
While it was unclear if the power of the storm was tied to climate change, the surge may serve as another reminder to low-lying cities of the need to prepare for the worst.
尚不清楚这场暴风雨的力量是否与气候变化有关，尽管如此，这次风暴潮可能会再次提醒人们，地势低洼的城市必须为最坏的情况做好准备。
President Aquino had urged residents to leave low-lying areas, but he did not order an evacuation. On Sunday, he toured some stricken areas and declared a “state of calamity,” a first step in the release of emergency money from the government.
阿基诺总统此前敦促居民离开地势低洼的地区，但并未下令疏散。周日，他视察了部分受灾地区，并宣布菲律宾进入“国家灾难状态”，这是政府发放应急资金的第一步。
As the president arrived in Tacloban to meet with victims of the storm and to coordinate rescue and cleanup efforts, his defense secretary, Voltaire Gazmin, described the chaos in the city of 220,000.
总统抵达塔克洛班探视风暴的受害者，协调救援和清理行动，与此同时，他手下的国防部长伏尔泰·加斯明(Voltaire Gazmin)描述了这座有22万人口的城市的混乱状况。
“There is no power, no water, nothing,” Mr. Gazmin said. “People are desperate.”
加斯明说，“没有电、没有水，什么都没有。人们感到绝望。”
Lynette Lim, a spokeswoman for Save the Children, weathered the storm in a local government office in Tacloban before leaving the city on a military aircraft Sunday morning. She said that even schools, gymnasiums and other sites that the local government had designated as evacuation centers had failed to hold up against the powerful winds.
周日上午乘军用飞机离开塔克洛班之前，救助儿童会(Save the Children)女发言人利内特·利姆(Lynette Lim)在当地政府办公室里捱过了这场风暴。她说，连学校、运动场和当地政府指定的其他疏散场所都没能抵御住强风。
“The roofs had been ripped off, the windows had shattered, and sometimes the ceilings had caved in,” Ms. Lim said in a telephone interview from Manila.
利姆在马尼拉接受电话采访时说，“房顶被风刮跑，窗户全碎了，有时连天花板都塌了下来。”
Poor neighborhoods fared especially badly, with virtually no structures left standing except a few government buildings. With no police officers in sight on Sunday morning, Ms. Lim said, people had begun grabbing food and other items off pharmacy and grocery store shelves.
穷人的街区受损尤其严重，实际上，除了几栋政府大楼之外，那些地方就没有依然屹立不倒的建筑。利姆说，周日上午，她没有见到警察，人们已经开始从药店和食品店的货架上抢夺食物和其他物品。
Video from Tacloban on ABS-CBN television showed scores of people entering stores and stuffing suitcases and bags with clothing and housewares. One photo showed a man holding a gun protecting his store.
ABS-CBN电视台播放的来自塔克洛班的视频显示，数十人进入商店，把衣物和家居用品塞入自己的手提箱和袋子。一幅照片显示，一名男子持枪守卫着自己的商店。
News reports from Tacloban told of how officials were unable to get an accurate death count because law enforcement and government personnel could not be found after the storm. Tacloban's mayor, Alfred S. Romualdez, was reported to have been “holding on to his roof” before being rescued, according to the Philippine Daily Inquirer.
来自塔克洛班的报道显示，风暴之后，由于找不到执法人员和政府人员，官员们无法获得正确的死亡统计数字。根据《菲律宾每日问询者报》（Philippine Daily Inquirer）的报道，获得营救之前，塔克洛班市市长阿尔弗雷德·S·罗穆亚尔德斯(Alfred S. Romualdez)“一直待在屋顶”。
The Philippine National Red Cross said its relief efforts were being hampered as people grabbed supplies from the trucks sent from the southern port city of Davao to Tacloban on Sunday, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社报道，菲律宾红十字会(National Red Cross)表示，周日，人们从南方港口城市达沃发往当地的卡车上抢夺物资，阻碍了红十字会的救援行动。
At the request of the Philippine government, the United States defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, ordered the deployment of ships and aircraft to bring emergency supplies and help in the search-and-rescue efforts, the Defense Department said. The United States Embassy in Manila made $100,000 immediately available for health and sanitation efforts, according to its Twitter feed.
美国国防部(Defense Department)表示，应菲律宾政府的请求，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)已下令调用船只和飞机运送紧急物资、协助开展搜救行动。根据美国驻菲律宾大使馆在Twitter上的发帖，位于马尼拉的美国大使馆立即向菲方提供了10万美元的医疗卫生援助资金。
President Obama issued a statement Sunday saying he expected “the incredible resiliency of the Philippine people,” to help the country, an American ally, through the trauma. He said the United States government also stands ready to assist the government’s relief and recovery efforts.
奥巴马总统于周日发表了一则声明，表示他期待“菲律宾人民的卓越韧性”能帮助这个美国盟友挺过灾后的创伤。他说，美国政府也时刻准备协助菲律宾政府的救援和重建工作。
On Sunday, about 90 American Marines and sailors based in Okinawa, Japan, landed in the Philippines, as part of an advance team assessing the disaster to determine what the Pentagon might need to help in relief efforts. 
周日，约90名来自日本冲绳基地的美国海军陆战队队员和船员登陆菲律宾，他们是先遣队，任务是评估灾难，确定国防部需要采取哪些措施协助救援。
According to Colonel Brad Bartlet, a Marine spokesman, the team has made requests for C-130 cargo airplanes, MV-22 Osprey helicopters and other aircraft to participate in search and recovery at sea. The Navy has also sent two P-3 Orion surveillance aircraft, planes that are often used during natural disasters to patrol the seas looking for survivors stranded in ships and boats. 
据海军陆战队发言人布莱德·巴特尔(Brad Bartlet)上校透露，先遣队已要求派遣C-130运输机、MV-22鱼鹰(Osprey)直升机和其他飞机参与海上搜索和打捞行动。美国海军也派出了两架P-3猎户(Orion)侦察机，这种飞机经常被用于在自然灾害中巡视海面，寻找困在船上或小艇上的幸存者。
Mar Roxas, the Philippine interior minister, said that while relief supplies for Tacloban had already begun arriving, they could not leave the airport because debris was blocking the roads in the area.
菲律宾内政部长马尔·罗哈斯(Mar Roxas)说，给塔克洛班提供的救援物资已开始抵达当地，但却无法运出机场，因为瓦砾封堵了当地的道路。
“The entire airport was under water up to roof level,” Mr. Roxas said, according to The Philippine Daily Inquirer. Speaking to reporters in Tacloban, he added, “The devastation here is absolute.”
据《菲律宾每日问询者报》报道，罗哈斯表示，“整个机场都浸入了水中，水一直漫到屋顶的高度”。他还在塔克洛班对记者说，“这里经受了极端的破坏。”
Robert S. Zeigler, the director general of the International Rice Research Institute in Los Baños, Philippines, said that he was very concerned that the damage reports seemed to be mainly from Tacloban, where aid has so far been concentrated, and not from the many fishing communities that line the coast.
罗伯特·S·齐格勒(Robert S. Zeigler)说，他非常担忧，因为受灾报道似乎主要来自塔克洛班，没有提及海岸上的许多渔业社区，到目前为止，救援都集中到了塔克洛班。齐格勒是位于菲律宾洛斯巴诺斯的国际稻米研究所(International Rice Research Institute)的所长。
“The coastal areas can be quite vulnerable — in many cases, you have fishing communities right up to the shoreline, and they can be wiped out” by a powerful storm surge, he said. “The disturbing reports are the lack of reports, and the areas that are cut off could be quite severely hit.”
他说，“滨海地区往往非常脆弱——在许多情况下，渔业社区紧邻岸边，可能会被”强大的风暴潮“彻底摧毁。让人担忧的消息是缺乏消息，这些隔绝区域可能受灾极重。”
Residents of Cebu, one of the country’s largest cities, said that many roads to the north of Cebu Island were still closed after towns there suffered very heavy damage as the typhoon slammed its way through the country. The roar of the wind was punctuated by the shattering of windows, residents said, although the city was spared the brunt of the storm.
宿务是菲律宾最大的城市之一，一些该市居民说，通往宿务岛北部的许多道路依然处于关闭状态，当台风横扫菲律宾时，那里的许多镇子受到了重创。居民说，虽然宿务躲过了风暴的正面冲击，然而，破碎的窗户还是突显了狂风的肆虐。
“It was very loud, like a train,” said Ranulfo L. Manatad, a night watchman at a street market in Mandaue City, on the northern outskirts of Cebu City.
在曼达维市一家街头市场守夜的拉努尔福·L·马纳塔德(Ranulfo L. Manatad)说，“风声太大了，就像一列火车。”曼达维位于宿务的北郊。
In Mabolo, another town on the city’s northern flank, the winds toppled a locally famous tree with a trunk roughly a yard in diameter. The tree had withstood every typhoon for more than a century.
在同处宿务北侧的马波洛镇，狂风拔起了当地的一棵知名树木，树干的直径有一码左右。过去一个多世纪里，那棵树经受住了所有台风的冲击。