HONG KONG — The authorities in Taiwan said on Friday that they had ruled out organized terrorism in a bombing on a commuter train that left at least 25 people wounded.
香港——台湾当局周五称，已经排除了台铁爆炸案为有组织的恐怖袭击的可能。爆炸已造成至少25人受伤。
The blast occurred on Thursday night in one of the train’s carriages as it was approaching a station in Taipei, the capital. The official Central News Agency cited witnesses describing an explosion followed by flames that spread in the carriage.
周四晚上，一辆列车在台湾首都台北某站进站时，一节车厢发生了爆炸。台湾官方的中央通讯社引用了目击者的描述，称爆炸发生后，火势在整节车厢内蔓延。
Most of the injuries were minor, but one person was in critical condition, the local news media reported on Friday morning, citing an official at a Taipei hospital. Two other people were reported to be in serious condition.
据当地媒体在周五早间报道援引正在台北一家医院的一位官员称，大部分伤者的伤势较轻，但有一名伤者有生命危险，另有两人伤情严重。
At a news conference on Friday, a spokesman for Taiwan’s Railway Police Bureau said the bomb appeared to have been an 18-inch metal tube filled with an explosive substance.
在周五的记者会上，台湾铁路警察局的一位发言人称，炸弹看上去是一根装有爆炸物的18英寸金属管。
Speaking to reporters on Friday, Taiwan’s premier, Lin Chuan, who visited some of the wounded during the night, said the bombing was not an organized terrorist attack. He said the police had information about a suspect, but he did not elaborate.
台湾行政院院长林全连夜探望了部分伤者；周五他对记者表示，这不是一起有组织的恐怖袭击。他说，警方掌握了嫌犯的信息，但并未透露具体细节。
“The people should keep calm, because this is not a terror attack,” Mr. Lin said. “This is not an organized attack.” He said “an individual person” was probably to blame.
林全说，“民生要安心， 因为这不是一个恐怖攻击，不是一个有组织的攻击。”他表示，这起爆炸很有可能是“个体的行为”。
The episode is likely to revive concerns about security on public transportation in Taiwan. In May 2014, a student killed four people and wounded 24 others in a stabbing rampage on the Taipei subway. After that attack, ridership dropped sharply, and the city’s subway operator later demanded compensation from the assailant, Cheng Chieh. Mr. Cheng, who was 21 at the time of the attack, was later convicted of murder and was executed in May of this year.
事件可能重新引起人们对台湾公共安全的担忧。2014年5月，一名学生在台北捷运暴力事件中刺死4人，伤及24人。之后的一段时间，乘客数量急剧减少。台北的捷运运营商后来要求袭击者提供补偿。那次的袭击者名为郑捷，当时21岁，之后被判处谋杀罪，在今年五月执行死刑。