TACLOBAN is my city. I grew up directly facing the Pacific Ocean, on the Philippines’ eastern shore, which takes the brunt of the yearly monsoons. Geography and history provide the textbook nickname of Leyte and Samar, the provinces hardest hit by Haiyan: “The Typhoon Path.”
塔克洛班市(Tacloban)是我的故乡。我是面朝着太平洋，在菲律宾东海岸长大的，年复一年，每当季风来袭，这里都首当其冲。在地理和历史教科书上，受台风“海燕”最沉重打击的萨马省和莱特省有个别名，叫“台风之路”(The Typhoon Path)。
I grew up with the natural signs of storms: cockroach hordes marching out of cupboard lairs as if in warning; cockpits losing roosters that preferred to perch on roofs than fight; the still alertness of lizards as winds rise; and the epic hooves of the rain on windows, coming from the ocean gods.
我小时候一直与暴风雨的自然征兆为伴：成群的蟑螂会从橱柜里倾巢而出，仿佛在发出警报；风力逐渐加大的时候，蜥蜴会静止不动，充满警惕；还有那来自海洋之神的大雨敲打着窗户，声音雄浑，犹如马蹄滚过。
Always, after the rains on Juan Luna Street, there was the great communal cleansing, children, housemaids and busybodies sharing stories; the familiar howl of Bruce Lee, our cowardly dog; the usual flooding of our walkway that doubled as a pigpen, housing a single hygienic pig owned by our neighbor Mano Bading, whose love for his pig we tolerated because we would eat it at fiesta; the examination of debris — clotheslines, buckets, cardboard election posters falling off a corner store, where we got our i.o.u.’s when typhoons hit, racking up our debts in Spam, Hunt’s pork and beans and rice.
通常情况下，大雨降临简鲁纳大街(Juan Luna Street)之后，邻里们都要对公共场所进行大扫除。孩子、女佣以及爱管闲事者会交流自己的见闻；我们那条胆子很小的狗“李小龙”(Bruce Lee)会发出熟悉的嗥叫声；我们的过道上总会有大片的积水，那地方还兼作猪圈，我们的邻居马诺·巴丁(Mano Bading)在那里养了一头猪，我们容忍他对猪的热爱，因为过节的时候我们也能吃到这头猪的肉；此外，还会有种种杂物等人来辨认，比如晾衣绳，水桶，以及从街角一家商店掉下来的硬纸板竞选海报，每当台风来袭，我们都要去那家商店赊账，SPAM牌的午餐肉以及Hunt牌的猪肉、豆子和大米让我们负债累累。
But this year’s post-typhoon cleansing has become an unimaginable orgy of grief. Friends who have escaped speak of strangled, directionless horror: No one is in charge. We don’t know how to account for our damage, or where to go to repair our fate.
不过，今年的台风过后的大扫除，却成了一番不可想象的极度悲伤的场面。逃过一劫的朋友们所谈论的，是令人窒息的无所适从的恐惧：没有人负责灾后救援。我们不知道如何衡量自己的损失，也不知道上哪儿补救自己的命运。
Amid the drowned bodies, the country’s president, Benigno S. Aquino III (known to all as Noynoy), arrived on Sunday, two days after the storm, to survey the damage. Earlier, Mr. Aquino had expressed doubts about the province’s readiness for the typhoon: “Tacloban was not that prepared, shall we say, compared with other areas,” he said from Manila, the day after Haiyan hit.
在溺毙者的尸体仍随处可见之际，我们国家的总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)——大家管他叫“诺诺”(Noynoy)——在周日，即风暴过去两天后抵达这里，亲自查看破坏情况。早些时候，他曾质疑莱特省对台风的防范工作。“我们也许可以说，与其他地区相比，塔克洛班准备得不那么充分，”他在“海燕”来袭的次日在马尼拉表示。
But the people of Tacloban, looking for signs of life beneath the matchstick rubble of their ephemeral homes, didn’t need to hear finger-pointing about governance. Women are still looking for their dead babies. Sons are searching for drowned fathers.
但塔克洛班的市民不需要听到有关政府治理的相互责难，因为他们正忙于在家园的废墟下搜寻生命迹象。母亲依然在寻找死去的宝宝。儿子还在搜寻溺毙的父亲。
Makeshift online forums remain a bedlam of voices seeking the lost. Horrific Flickr albums of looting and dismembered limbs pass like sewage on Facebook posts.
临时的在线论坛仍充满着寻找失踪者的声音。Facebook的帖子和Flickr网站上有很多抢劫和残肢断臂的照片。
Sleepless relatives, looking for clues, scour strangers’ videos showing the dazed along the Maharlika coastal highway from Tanauan to Palo. “Zombies,” as online comments describe them, in search of food and shelter — though not blood.
辗转难眠的亲人仔细查看陌生人拍摄的视频，极力寻找线索。视频上，从塔纳万到帕洛的马哈利卡(Maharlika)海滨公路沿途有很多茫然的人。网上有人称他们是“僵尸”，但他们在寻找的是食物和容身之处，而不是鲜血。
I, too, kept looking, for shadows of Dean, my brother, for the house on Juan Luna Street. I paused video for street names, store signs, roads that might end up with Dean — places I might recognize but did not. I kept ending up on other people’s tragedies for days, until I heard from Dean. Most of all, I heard the enraged anguish of my people, who appealed for order, but in the vacuum of leadership that marks this disaster, where should they begin — the mayor’s office? The national agencies? International relief brigades?
我也一直在寻找我弟弟迪安的身影，寻找位于简鲁纳大街上的房子。我让视频暂停，以便能看清那些可能会让我找到迪安的街道名字、商店招牌和公路。我或许会认出这些地方，但结果没有。好几天里，我不断听到其他人的悲剧，直到得到迪安的音讯。最重要的是，我听到了家乡的同胞们的愤怒和痛苦。他们呼吁秩序，但这场灾难的特点就是没有领导，在这种领导真空里，他们应该向谁求助：市长办公室？国家机构？国际救援大军？
Politicians’ faces were on signs; but on the streets, there was no help in sight.
政客的脸出现在了标牌上；但在大街上，看不到救助。
Our corner store’s election posters used to carry names as familiar as the storms. Tacloban is still run by relatives of Imelda Marcos, the former first lady whose lifestyle plundered the nation. Her nephew Alfred is the town’s mayor. His cousin Ferdinand Martin (named after his uncle, the deposed dictator Ferdinand Marcos), is the city’s congressman. Imelda, the “Rose of Tacloban,” is now 84 and reportedly had no idea that a storm hit her native city. She’s the insensate aunt of the clueless mayor — a Filipino soap opera of infinite impunity. And in an ironic twist, the current president is the son of a murdered martyr, Ninoy Aquino, who was assassinated on the Manila airport tarmac in 1983, allegedly by Imelda’s henchmen.
之前，我们那家街角商店的竞选海报上的人名就像风暴一样耳熟。掌管这座城市的依然是伊梅尔达·马科斯(Imelda Marcos)的亲戚。这位前第一夫人的生活方式建立在对国家的劫掠的基础上。她的侄子阿尔弗雷德(Alfred)是这里的市长。阿尔弗雷德的堂弟费迪南德·马丁(Ferdinand Martin)（根据其姑父、被罢黜的独裁者费迪南德·马科斯[Ferdinand Marcos]的名字起名）是代表塔克洛班市的国会议员。有“塔克洛班玫瑰”之称的伊梅尔达已经84岁了。据报道，她不知道故乡遭到了风暴的重创。她是一头雾水的市长的无知觉的姑妈。这简直就是一部关于无止境特权的菲律宾肥皂剧。而具有讽刺意味的另一个曲折情节是，现任总统正是当年遇刺的殉道士尼诺伊·阿基诺(Ninoy Aquino)的儿子。1983年，阿基诺在马尼拉遇刺身亡，据称凶手是伊梅尔达的亲信。
The island of Leyte has always attracted opportunists. Magellan washed up in the Philippines in 1521, and islanders later killed him. Tacloban’s patron saint, the Holy Infant, Santo Niño, is a relic of Magellan’s legions, and graces the surge-shattered church that still survives by the blasted plaza.
古往今来，莱特岛一直吸引机会主义者。1521年，麦哲伦(Magellan)来到菲律宾，后被岛上居民所杀。塔克洛班的守护神，即圣婴圣尼诺(Santo Niño)，便是麦哲伦一行遗留下的信仰，圣婴像安放在风暴损坏的教堂里。这座教堂幸存了下来，依然屹立在受损的广场旁边。
The Santo Niño shrine, battered but unbowed, is said to be on the site of Imelda Marcos’s childhood home. In a haunting picture recycling through Facebook, the Holy Child’s bright face guards a dead woman, her hair awry, beneath a banana-leaf body bag at the shrine. Outside Imelda’s splendid apartments with goods safe from looters, a mother of Tacloban bleeds.
据称，遭到破坏但并未倒塌的圣尼诺教堂所在的位置正是伊梅尔达·马科斯的童年故居。Facebook上流传着一幅令人印象深刻的照片。照片上，圣婴欢快的脸蛋守卫着一名死去的女子，那名女子头发凌乱，躺在一个香蕉叶做成的尸袋下。伊梅尔达所在的豪华公寓是抢劫者难以进入的，公寓楼外，一名塔克洛班母亲正在流血。
Before President William McKinley began explaining what benevolent assimilation of the Philippines entailed, before the Philippine-American War of 1899-1902, Tacloban was already in America’s column. In 1901, officials in Leyte, reporting to the first governor-general, William Howard Taft, wrote that “the intense interest manifested among the masses to acquire a knowledge of the English language.” In a 1901 revolutionary battle in Balangiga, a historic town that Haiyan has devoured, Filipinos raided the American garrison — but Tacloban remained pacifist. Gen. Jacob H. Smith, who ordered his troops to make the island “a howling wilderness” and was later court-martialed for the butchery of Balangiga, held firm sway in Tacloban.
早在美国前总统威廉·麦金利(William McKinley)开始解释对菲律宾的“亲善同化”(benevolent assimilation)意味着什么，早在1899-1902年的美菲战争之前，塔克洛班就加入了美国阵营。1901年，莱特省官员在向首任总督威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱(William Howard Taft)汇报工作时写道，“民众有极其强烈的兴趣掌握一些英语知识。”1901年在巴兰吉加（Balangiga，这座具有历史意义的城市已被“海燕”摧毁）展开的革命战斗中，菲律宾人袭击了美军营地——但塔克洛班仍保持着和平主义态度。雅各布·H·史密斯上将(Gen. Jacob H. Smith)曾命令部队把这座岛屿变成“一片大荒地”，他后来因为在巴兰吉加进行大屠杀而受到军事法庭的审判。他铁腕掌控着塔克洛班。
Tacloban’s dubious hero worship and its attachment to colonial powers persists. Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s statue, celebrating his bronze khakis wading onto Red Beach in 1944, is still the crowning glory of the city’s parks — Macarthur remains untoppled.
塔克洛班含糊不清的英雄崇拜，以及它与殖民主义列强的联系仍然存在。为了纪念1944年道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟上将(Gen. Douglas MacArthur)身着卡其色军服涉水登上红滩(Red Beach)而建成的雕像对于这座城市的公园而言，仍然是至高无上的荣耀——麦克阿瑟的雕像没有倒。
My favorite hotel, the charming, antique Hotel Alejandro, which was submerged last week, was used by MacArthur, in the run-up to America’s victory against the Japanese, at the cost of thousands of Filipino deaths, whose wartime efforts are still unrepaid.
我最喜欢的酒店、迷人而古老的亚历杭德罗酒店(Hotel Alejandro)上周被淹没。在美国即将打败日本时，麦克阿瑟曾使用这家酒店。数千名菲律宾人在这场战争中失去了生命，他们为战争做出的牺牲仍然没有得到回报。
This history of surrender to awesome forces marks my city’s story. It’s easy to understand why. Surrender and its twin, oblivion, are how we Filipinos have survived.
向巨大力量投降的历史成了这座城市的特点。原因很简单。投降和它的双胞胎——遗忘——是我们菲律宾人的生存之道。
At times our choices for survival are clever — like the learning of others’ tongues, a resilient ruse in unsteady times. But in our resilience, we also make our doom. We rage at politicians’ self-serving and blame their inept governance. But governance is the point. It is easier, after all, to blame nature for the thousands of dead rather than on the choices we make — of incompetent leaders trailing a family history of unpunished plunder, of our continuing pillage of our forests, of our clinging to Western allies that spurn our demands for a forceful response to climate change.
有时，我们的生存选择是明智的——比如学习别人的语言，这是动荡时期的一种权宜之计。但是，我们的顽强也给自己招来了厄运。我们对政客的自私自利感到愤怒，指责他们治理不当。但治理正是症结所在。毕竟，指责自然造成数千人丧生，要比归咎于我们自己做出的选择来得容易——我们选择了那些不称职的领导人，他们的家族从未因为窃国而受到惩罚；我们不停地大规模砍伐森林；我们对西方盟友十分依赖，而他们对我们要求大力应对气候变化的呼声置若罔闻。
On Red Beach, America will soon rumble onto Leyte’s shores with its ships, returning, like MacArthur, to Tacloban’s rescue, on the heels of a planetary emergency for which it feels no guilt or will to fix.
在红滩，前来救援的美军很快就会隆隆开上莱特省的海岸，在巨大灾难之后，像麦克阿瑟一样回来拯救塔克洛班。而对于这种灾难，它既没有觉得自己有责任，也没有意愿来对付根本原因。
History is our tsunami, and in our seaside shelters, we keep watching the tide return, waiting for our cleansing as bodies drown.
历史就是我们的海啸，我们在海边的棚子里观察着潮水返回，在尸体被潮水淹没的时候，等待自己的洗礼。