GUIUAN, Philippines — As American cargo planes and military helicopters zipped across the sky above this decimated city, ferrying badly needed supplies to typhoon survivors, Philippine soldiers were working with what little they had — relying on motorcycles and boats to ferry messages between the army’s provincial headquarters and stricken municipalities along the eastern coast of Samar, some of them more than a hundred miles away.
菲律宾基万——在这座被毁坏的城市上空，美国运输机和军用直升机来来往往，它们将急需的物资运送给台风的幸存者。而菲律宾军人则只能依靠他们仅有的那点设备——他们借助摩托车和小船，在军队位于省会的指挥部和萨马岛东海岸被台风侵袭的城镇之间传递消息，有时候，相隔距离超过一百英里。
In an acknowledgment of the army’s lack of sophisticated equipment, a spokesman said on Monday, “The courier system is our means of communications.”
一位发言人承认菲律宾陆军缺乏先进设备，他在周一表示，“通讯员系统就是我们传递信息的方式。”
The destructive fury of Typhoon Haiyan quickly laid bare the limitations of the Philippine government’s disaster preparation and relief capabilities, but increasingly, it is also focusing an unflattering spotlight on the nation’s military — an overstretched, poorly funded force that has been criticized for its late arrival to the disaster zone.
狂暴的台风“海燕”所造成的破坏，迅速暴露了菲律宾政府在防灾和救援能力上的软肋。但是，人们越来越多地开始把不那么友善的目光投向这个国家的军队——这是一只超负荷运转，经费短缺的部队，外界批评其官兵抵达灾区的时间太迟。
Officials have attributed the delay in part to a shortage of large troop carriers. But even when several thousand soldiers were finally able to fan out across the devastated islands of Samar and Leyte, their work was, and continues to be, hampered by a lack of provisions including food, heavy equipment and communications technology needed when cellphone service is down.
官员将迟到的原因部分归结于缺乏大型兵员运输装备。但是，即便当数千名士兵终于分头抵达受灾的萨马岛和莱特岛，他们的救援工作还是受到了缺乏后勤补给的影响。由于缺乏物资与食物，以及亟需的重装备和通信设备（特别是在手机都收不到信号的时候），影响还在持续。
In addition to clearing roads, transporting relief supplies and evacuating the wounded, the military is responsible for helping the Philippine National Police maintain security during natural disasters.
军队负责清理道路，运送救灾物资，转送伤员。此外，他们还负责协助菲律宾国家警察，在自然灾害期间维持社会治安。
Here in Guiuan, one of the largest cities affected by Haiyan, military personnel have been left to fend for themselves, procuring meals from local residents who cook amid the rubble of their homes while the soldiers await orders that sometimes never arrive. Some of the same problems have plagued the Coast Guard. When asked why they had spent the past four days sitting in the mayor’s storm-battered offices, two Coast Guard sailors on Monday shrugged and pointed to their useless cellphones.
基万是遭受“海燕”影响的最大城市之一，军人必须自给自足，他们从当地居民那里买食物，而后者只能在变成残桓破瓦的家园里做饭；士兵们等待上面的命令，但有时怎么等也等不到。同样的那些问题也困扰着海岸警卫队。周一，当被问到，他们为什么在过去四天里一直待在受到台风破坏的市长官邸里时，两位海岸警卫队的水兵耸耸肩，指了指他们起不了作用的手机。
“We’re waiting for instructions,” one of them, Cliff Turallo, said with apparent embarrassment.
其中一名叫做克里夫·图拉罗(Cliff Turallo)的水兵明显感到羞愧，他说，“我们正在等命令。”
Analysts say the aftermath of the typhoon is a particularly jarring reminder of how badly Philippine forces have fared since the American military withdrew in the early 1990s, after negotiations over a new treaty faltered amid a passionate debate over national sovereignty. In a poor country struggling to overcome a culture of graft that has starved government budgets for years, Filipino leaders have consistently directed resources toward other priorities — in part, analysts say, because they still view the United States, a strong ally, as a safety net. The military budget itself has been pilfered by corrupt government officials under previous administrations.
分析人士表示，台风之后的烂摊子如此显眼，让人不禁感叹自1990年代初美军从菲律宾撤离之后，该国军队的境况竟然如此之窘迫。当时，美菲双方试图达成一个新的驻军条约，但是谈判却受到有关国家主权激烈争论的影响而夭折。在这个试图消除其腐败文化的影响的贫穷国家，贪污风气使得政府多年来在预算方面捉襟见肘，而且菲律宾领导人总是将资源投向其他那些紧迫事项——分析人士表示，部分原因是，他们还在将美国这个强大的盟友视为自己的安全网。而且，在过去几届政府中，军队预算本身也一直为贪腐官员侵占。
Now that the typhoon has exposed these weaknesses, analysts expect renewed debate about whether the Philippines should allow the United States to do what it has been asking to do: cycle more American troops through the country as part of the Obama administration’s attempt to act as a counterweight to China.
现在，台风暴露了这些问题，分析人士估计这将重新引发相关争论，即菲律宾是否应该允许美国实施其一直提议的计划：将更多的美军派驻菲律宾，作为奥巴马政府平衡中国计划的一部分。
With its own conflict looming — China is challenging Philippine claims to some strategic maritime territories — the Philippines has also begun to try to build its own resources. But for the moment, the country has little of the advanced equipment that can be used in rescue and recovery efforts as well as in conflict.
随着和中国的冲突开始显现——菲律宾声称，对于某些具有战略意义的海域拥有主权，中国则对此一直提出异议——菲律宾开始想要重整自己的资源。但是就现在而言，它缺少那些既能够用于救援和重建工作，又能够用于武装冲突的先进装备。
Instead, Philippine forces have had to make do with increasingly obsolete hand-me-downs. A lack of parts has mothballed much of the nation’s fleet of a dozen C-130 cargo planes, the workhorses of many relief operations worldwide. The military said it had only three functioning transport aircraft to deliver troops and supplies in the days after Typhoon Haiyan; some soldiers said there were just two. Similar problems have grounded 28 of the Air Force’s 44 Huey helicopters, according to IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly.
事实上，菲律宾军队只能将就使用那些越来越过时的旧装备。因为缺乏零部件，菲律宾十二架C-130运输机中的很大一部分被束之高阁，而它们正是全世界许多救援工作的主力。军方表示，海燕台风之后，他们只有三架运输机工作正常，可以用来运送部队和补给；有的士兵表示，其实正常工作的货机只有两架。根据《简氏防务周刊》( IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly)的消息，菲律宾空军总共拥有44架休伊直升机，因为类似的问题，其中的28架只能停在地面上。
Although it has ordered 12 fighter jets from South Korea, the Philippine Air Force currently has no fighter planes, and the navy relies on a handful of aged American surplus vessels.
虽然菲律宾空军向韩国订购了12架战斗机，但是他们现阶段没有任何战斗机，而其海军依赖的是若干艘陈旧的美军淘汰舰只。
“This tragedy exposes the vulnerabilities of the Philippine military, especially its lack of capacity,” said Richard C. Jacobson, the country director for the Philippines at Pacific Strategies and Assessments, a business risk mitigation firm in Manila.
理查德·C·雅各布森( Richard C. Jacobson)是位于马尼拉的商业风险调查机构，太平洋战略与评估( Pacific Strategies and Assessments)负责菲律宾的国家主管，他说，“这场悲剧暴露了菲律宾军队的弱点，特别是他们在能力方面的缺陷。”
Philippine officials are aware of the military’s deficiencies, and they acknowledged in interviews this week that their post-typhoon response had been less than ideal.
菲律宾官员很清楚地知道军队的问题，他们也在本周的采访中承认，军方在台风之后的应对措施绝对谈不上理想。
“We have so many shortcomings,” said Commodore Reynaldo Yoma, the navy commander responsible for the region hit by the storm.
负责灾区工作的海军指挥官雷纳尔多·尤玛准将(Commodore Reynaldo Yoma)表示，“我们有非常多的不足之处。”
Still, Commodore Yoma and other officials vigorously defended their efforts, saying military personnel had performed valiantly given the immense destruction wrought by the typhoon, which has affected as many as 13 million people across a huge area that includes numerous islands and isolated rural hamlets.
不过，尤玛准将和其他官员也努力为军方的行动作辩护，考虑到台风带来的巨大破坏，包括无数小岛和封闭乡村在内的广大地区受灾，受灾人口多达一千三百万人，军队上下的表现还是非常顽强的。
Ricky Carandang, a spokesman for President Benigno S. Aquino III, said the storm not only devastated roads, ports and communication infrastructure, but also turned many of the people designated to respond to disasters, including police officers, into victims.
里奇·卡兰丹(Ricky Carandang)是菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世( President Benigno S. Aquino III)的发言人，他表示台风不仅摧毁了道路，港口和通信设施，还将许多本该负责救灾的人变成了灾民，包括许多警察。
“We came here with basically zero,” Mr. Carandang said. “The scale of it was just so overwhelming that it took us a couple of days to get rid of the logistical problems and start delivering.”
卡兰丹表示，“我们过来的时候基本上什么都没有。灾难如此之大，我们只好先花几天时间解决物流运输问题，再开始运送救灾物资。”
President Aquino had vowed long before the storm to modernize the armed forces, and his administration has allocated $1.73 billion for new weaponry over a five-year period, more than double the amount spent in the previous 15 years. Much of that new equipment, however, will not start arriving until next year.
这次灾害发生之前很久，阿基诺总统就承诺要推动军队现代化，他的政府也安排了总计17.3亿美元的预算，在未来五年中采购新式武器，这比过去十五年的相关预算翻了一倍还不止。但是，很多新装备要到明年才开始交货。
But some analysts say turning the country’s 150,000-member military into an effective national defense force that can handle humanitarian crises requires even more spending, as well as institutional changes that are politically unpalatable.
不过，一些分析人士表示，要将该国的十五万军队，转变成能够有效应付人道主义灾难的国防力量，需要的投资不止这些，而且还需进行一些政治上难度很大的制度调整。
The Philippine Constitution, for example, bars the government from allocating more to defense than to education, and experts say the rapid turnover among senior military commanders — a result, in part, of a promotion system that values political loyalties over talent — means there is little long-term planning.
比方说，菲律宾宪法禁止政府的国防开支超过教育开支，而且，专家表示，军队高层将领经常换人——从部分原因上，是因为晋升机制强调政治上的忠诚而非才能——这意味着缺乏长期规划。
Renato De Castro, a professor of international relations at De La Salle University in Manila, said that part of the solution should be a heightened role for American forces, who already provide periodic training for the Philippine military, including in disaster relief operations. He said he hoped the images of United States Marines and Navy pilots delivering aid to the typhoon victims might break the logjam over whether to increase the American presence here, a stalemate driven by nationalist sentiments and memories of colonization.
雷纳托·德卡斯特罗(Renato De Castro)是马尼拉德拉萨大学(De La Salle University)的国际关系学教授，他认为部分解决办法就是强化美国军队的角色，虽然现阶段美军已经开始定期培训菲律宾军队，其中就包括了救灾演练。他说，他希望美国海军陆战队和海军飞行员为台风灾民运送援助物资的画面，能够打破是否应该增加美军驻军的僵局。而之所以陷入僵局，是因为民众的民族主义情绪和对于殖民时期的回忆。
“When it comes to security and providing humanitarian assistance after a natural calamity like this,” Dr. De Castro said, “only the U.S. military has the kind of equipment and expertise that’s required.”
德卡斯特罗博士说，“当遇到像这样的自然灾害，要保障治安和提供人道主义援助的时候，只有美国军队才有所需的设备和经验。”