BEIJING — A powerful typhoon that had threatened Hong Kong brushed past the southern Chinese city Sunday night and crashed into a mountainous swath of Guangdong Province, killing at least 25 people, according to the local news media.
北京——曾一度威胁香港的强台风周日晚绕过了中国南部的这座城市，在广东省一个丘陵地区登陆，据当地媒体报道，台风导致至少25人死亡。
Although the storm forced the cancellation of hundreds of flights in Hong Kong and delayed the opening of financial markets on Monday, Typhoon Usagi — described as among the region’s most dangerous storms in three decades — weakened as it approached the densely populated Pearl River Delta with winds that topped out around 110 miles per hour.
虽然强台风“天兔”使香港被迫取消了数百次航班，推迟了金融市场周一的开市，但其在人口稠密的珠三角地区登陆前已有所减弱，最大风力没有超过每小时110英里左右。这场台风被描述为该地区三十年来最危险的暴风之一。
More than half the deaths occurred in and around the coastal city of Shanwei on Sunday night. The dead included seven railroad construction workers, two people who drowned when their fishing boat capsized and a man hit by a window dislodged by gale-force winds, the state-run media said. Flooding and strong gusts downed power lines, leaving 170,000 people without electricity.
一半以上的死亡发生在周日夜间，在沿海城市汕尾市周围。国家媒体报道称，死者中有7名铁路建筑工人、2名因渔船翻船而溺水死亡者、以及一个被大风吹掉的窗户砸死的男子。洪水和强风击倒了输电线，使17万人断电。
Across Guangdong, the official Xinhua news agency said the storm destroyed 7,100 homes and forced the evacuation of around 226,000 people. Damage was estimated at more than $500 million. In Shantou, another coastal city, rising floodwaters helped a two-ton hippopotamus escape from its enclosure at the city zoo. Photographs posted on the Internet showed the animal bobbing in a nearby canal but it was reportedly coaxed back by zoo workers by Monday afternoon.
官方媒体新华社称，广东全省有7100座房屋被台风摧毁，约有22.6万人被迫撤离。台风带来的直接损失估计约为32.4亿元。在另一沿海城市汕头，高涨的洪水让汕头市动物园一头两吨重的河马成功“越狱”。网上传的照片显示，这只河马在附近一条运河里上下浮动，但据称它在周一下午被动物园工作人员骗回了家。
Earlier in the week, Usagi — which means rabbit in Japanese — plowed through the Luzon Strait, which separates Taiwan and the Philippines, killing at least four people. For a while on Friday, the storm qualified as a super typhoon, a Category 5 storm on the Saffir-Simpson scale, but it began to lose some of its punch Sunday.
上周早些时候，“天兔”（Usagi，日语是兔子的意思）扫过将台湾和菲律宾隔开的吕宋海峡，致使至少4人死亡。周五有一段时间，“天兔”曾够上超强台风的标准，达到萨菲尔-辛普森飓风等级上的5级，但在周日开始有所减弱。
According to the Hong Kong Observatory, the storm injured 13 people across the city and forced the cancellation of 370 flights, leaving hundreds of travelers stranded at the city’s airport.
据香港天文台(Hong Kong Observatory)消息，台风在香港致使13人受伤，迫使370次航班被取消，数百旅客被困在该市的机场。
On the Chinese mainland, high-speed train service between Guangzhou and Beijing was suspended and 540 flights were canceled just as millions of travelers were returning after a three-day national holiday. By Monday evening the storm, still packing heavy wind and rain, was sweeping northwest to China’s Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
在中国大陆，京广高速铁路被迫暂时停运，540次航班被取消，此时正值数百万旅客在3天假期结束后返回之际。到周一晚间，仍携带着强风和大雨的暴风扫向西北的广西壮族自治区。