News flash: Your chances of winning the Powerball jackpot are not great — just 1 in 292.2 million. Still, with the next drawing scheduled for Wednesday at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time, ticket sales are going through the roof around the country.
重要新闻：你中强力球(Powerball)彩票头奖的几率不是太高——2.922亿分之一。不过，这期的强力球正在全美各地掀起彩票销售的狂潮，它的开奖时间定于本周三东部时间晚10:59。
Below is a list of questions on who, besides jackpot winners, stands to gain from the record-breaking lottery and where the money goes.
很多人想在这期破纪录的彩票中碰碰运气，下面这些问题就与他们以及头奖赢家有关。其中也涵盖了彩票收入资金流向的问题。
Q. Why the frenzy?
问：为什么会出现这样的狂热？
A. At $1.5 billion, it is the largest lottery jackpot ever in the United States: No other has broken the $1 billion mark. But there are other explanations for the mania. With wages and income levels stagnant for many Americans, the lottery has particular allure. And once a frenzy takes hold, it tends to spread. “Jumping on the bandwagon is an age-old motivator of psychological behavior,” Stephen Goldbart and his colleague Joan DiFuria wrote in a Psychology Today article titled “Lottery-itis.” “We want to be with the in-crowd, to be `part of the movement,' not `feel left out.' ”
答：这期头奖有15亿美元，是美国有史以来最高的彩票头奖：之前从来没有超过10亿美元大关。但也有其他原因推动了这样的狂热。很多美国人的工资和收入水平停滞不前，对他们来说，买彩票有一种特殊的吸引力。而且狂热一旦引发，就会开始扩散蔓延。“自古以来，‘随大流’都是心理行为的一种动机，”斯蒂芬·哥德巴特(Stephen Goldbart)和同事琼·迪福里亚(Joan DiFuria)在《今日心理学》(Psychology Today)上一篇题为《彩票炎》(Lottery-itis)的文章中说：“我们想跟上潮流，成为‘活动的一部分’，而不是‘感觉被排除在外’。”
Q. Why is the jackpot so big?
问：为什么头奖金额这么高？
A. In October, the Multi-State Lottery Association stiffened the odds of winning Powerball jackpots from 1 in 175 million to 1 in 292 million, but made it easier to win smaller prizes. The current jackpot has rolled over every week since Nov. 7 because nobody has picked all six numbers.
答：去年10月，跨州彩票协会(Multi-State Lottery Association)把中头奖的几率从1.75亿分之一压低到2.92亿分之一，但同时也降低了中小奖的难度。这期头奖是从11月7日累积起来的，从那时起就一直没有人选中所有六个数字。
Q. Why did lottery officials make it so hard to win?
问：彩票管理者为什么要增加中头奖的难度？
A. Lottery revenue in some states dipped from 2013 to 2014 or stayed relatively even, so the shift in odds was viewed as a way of re-energizing lottery sales. Bigger jackpots draw bigger headlines, which in turn entice more people to dish out $2 for a ticket, said David R. Just, a professor of applied economics and management at Cornell University who has written three studies on the lottery. “It's the Donald Trump effect — it draws eyeballs without having to advertise,” he said. More people equals more revenue. Just try wading past a phalanx of lottery ticket fiends to buy a gallon of milk for proof that the strategy appears to be working.
答：一些州2014年的彩票收入低于2013年，或者持平，所以改变难度被视为重振彩票销售的一种方式。康奈尔大学(Cornell University)应用经济学管理学教授大卫·R·加斯特(David R. Just)说，更大的头奖，可以带来更大的头条新闻，这反过来又会吸引更多的人花2美元试试运气。加斯特写过三篇研究彩票的论文，“这就是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)效应——不必做宣传就能吸引眼球，”他说。购买的人越多，彩票收入就越高。你只要试试从一群彩迷中间挤过去买一加仑牛奶，就知道这个战略看来行得通。
Q. How many states participate?
问：有多少州参加了？
A. Forty-four states, as well as Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Six states have opted out of the lottery: Nevada (where plenty of other gambling exists), Mississippi and Alabama (which also have casinos and lots of Baptist churches), Utah (home to the country's largest Mormon population), Alaska and Hawaii. Once lotteries kicked off, there was a domino effect because non-lottery states feared losing out to their lottery-offering neighbors.
答：40个州，还有华盛顿哥伦比亚特区、波多黎各和美属维尔京群岛。六个州选择不参加：内华达（那里有很多其他赌博方式）、密西西比和阿拉巴马（那里有赌场和许多浸信会教堂）、犹他（全美摩门教徒最多的地方）、阿拉斯加，以及夏威夷。一旦开彩，就会产生多米诺骨牌效应，因为不卖彩票的那些州会担心落在卖彩票的邻州后面。
Q. Which state reaps the most lottery revenue?
问：哪个州卖彩票的收入最高？
A. New York, by far. The lottery there brought in $9.2 billion in 2014. Florida came in second with a little over half that amount, $5.3 billion, followed by California with $5 billion and Massachusetts with $4.8 billion.
答：到目前为止是纽约州，2014年卖了92亿美元。佛罗里达州排在第二，53亿美元，比纽约州的一半略多一点，接下来是加州，50亿美元，马萨诸塞州，48亿美元。
Q. How much goes to state programs?
问：彩票收入有多少用在了各州的项目上？
A. In New York, it was $3.1 billion. Florida funneled $1.4 billion to state programs, California $1.3 billion and Massachusetts $971 million.
答：纽约州31亿美元，佛罗里达州14亿美元，加州13亿美元，马萨诸塞州9.71亿美元。
Q. What kind of programs does lottery revenue pay for?
问：用到了哪种项目上呢？
A. About two dozen states dedicate part or all of their lottery revenue to education programs. It is hard to rail against education funding — something state officials used as a strategic selling point when trying to persuade voters to embrace lotteries, a form of gambling. But other states (Arkansas, Connecticut and Delaware, for example) shift much of the money to their general revenue funds, and some use it for prisons, the environment and pensions.
答：大约20多个州将部分或全部彩票收入用在了教育项目上。为教育筹集经费的事情，要抨击是很困难的——州政府官员将其作为战略卖点，试图说服选民接受彩票这种赌博形式。但有一些州（阿肯色州、康涅狄格州和特拉华州等）把很多彩票收入转入到政府一般收入资金中，一些州将它用在监狱、环境和养老金的改善上。
Q. So the lottery frenzy is a good thing for states, right?
问：所以对于这些州来说，彩票狂热是件好事对吧？
A. Supporters say that lottery revenue has helped increase funding in critical areas, especially for education. Georgia and Florida use it for college scholarships, for example. During the recession, lottery funds came in especially handy. But critics say state governments have used lottery money not to increase funding, but to supplant it. They charge that states have redirected existing money from education into other areas and used the lottery money to plug up the hole in a kind of shell game. “I don't think things have changed much,” said Patrick A. Pierce, a co-author of a study on the topic and a professor of political science at Saint Mary's College in Indiana.
答：支持者表示，彩票收入有助于增加对一些关键领域，尤其是教育领域的资助。比如，佐治亚州和佛罗里达州就将部分彩票收入用于给大学提供奖学金。在经济衰退时期，彩票资金尤其有用。但批评者表示，一些州政府并不是用彩票收入增加资助资金，而是取代自己原先提供的资助。他们指责州政府将现有教育资金调配至其他领域，然后用彩票收入填补留下的空缺，就像某种藏豆骗术。“我不认为情况有很大变化，”印第安纳州圣玛丽学院(Saint Mary's College)政治学教授帕特里克·A·皮尔斯(Patrick A. Pierce)说，他曾经参与一项有关上述主题的研究。
Q. Who plays the lottery?
问：哪些人会买彩票？
A. Many studies have concluded that those who play the lottery regularly tend to be low-income and to spend more of their money, in relative terms, on tickets.
答：很多研究已经得出结论，认为经常买彩票的人往往是低收入人群，而且会花自己收入中相对比较多的钱买彩票。
“People with more money spend more on lottery as a total, but they spend a negligible percentage of their income on it,” said Just of Cornell, who just completed his third study of the lottery, this one focusing on Maine. “But people on lower income ranges spend sizable percentages of their income on lotto.”
“更有钱的人买彩票的总体花费会更高，但这些钱在他们的收入中几乎可以忽略不计，”康奈尔大学的贾斯特说，他刚刚完成了自己有关彩票的第三项研究，这一次主要针对缅因州。“但收入较低的人群会花收入的相当大一部分在乐透彩票上。”
Critics say this constitutes a regressive tax because it affects the poor more than the rich. But defenders of the lottery say that is simply not true: Playing the lottery is voluntary, so it is not a tax.
批评者表示这构成了一种累退税，因为它对穷人的影响比富人大。但彩票业的支持者表示，这样的说法不对：买彩票是自愿行为，所以它不是一种税。
Other studies come up with different conclusions.
还有一些研究得出了不同的结论。
Q. Who gets most of the money: states or lottery winners?
问：彩票收入谁拿了大头：州政府，还是彩票中奖者？
A. This varies by state, but here are a few examples. States tend to have a similar division of lottery funds, although some make it more difficult than others to get this information. In Florida, which has an easy-to-read website, the bulk of the money, 65 percent, is used to pay off winners; 27 percent is steered toward education; 5.5 percent is paid to retailers in commissions; 1.4 percent goes to vendors; and 1.3 percent is used for operating expenses.
答：在不同的州，情况不一样，不过这里可以举一些例子。各个州一般都有一个类似的彩票基金部门，不过在有些州有关这个部门的信息会比其他州更难获得。在佛罗里达州的网站上，这些信息比较容易看到，其彩票收入总额的65%被用来给中奖者兑奖；27%用于教育领域；5.5%用于彩票零售商的佣金；1.4%给了彩票商贩；1.3%为运营支出。
New York state uses 60 percent of the money for winners, 30 percent for education, 6 percent for retailer commissions, 1.6 percent for gambling contractor fees and 1.6 percent for other operating expenses.
纽约州的彩票收入有60%被用来给中奖者兑奖，30%用于教育，6%为零售商佣金，1.6%为博彩承包商费用，1.6%是其他运营支出。