IT PROBABLY SEEMED LIKE a good idea at the time for the members of the British glam-metal band Wrathchild to be so peacockishly come-hither on the cover of their 1984 album “Stakk Attakk.” With songs like “Trash Queen” and “Too Wild to Tame,” no doubt they took pride in their toweringly teased locks, baby-doll lips and strappy S-and-M gear. But nearly 30 years later the image doesn’t quite scream Beasts of Metal. It more whispers, Lady Clown.
英国华丽金属乐队“愤怒孩子”(Wrathchild)的成员们打扮得花里胡哨，充满诱惑地出现在他们1984年的专辑《Stakk Attakk》上，这在当时可能是个好创意。专辑中包括《垃圾皇后》(Trash Queen)和《野性难驯》(Too Wild to Tame)等歌曲，他们显然对自己高高梳起的头发、洋娃娃般的嘴唇和系带子的虐恋装备颇为自豪。但是将近30年后，这个形象不再像咆哮呐喊的金属野兽，倒有点像低声细语的小丑夫人。
The portrait may have lost Wrathchild some metal cred, but the band has something of a place of honor in “The Merciless Book of Metal Lists,” a new compendium of heavy-metal indexes written by Howie Abrams, the founder of the metal and hard-core label In-Effect Records, and Sacha Jenkins, the former music editor of Vibe magazine. The lists are literary (“Best Metal Blogs”), humorous (“Completely Unnecessary Heavy Metal Subgenres”) and fight-stirring (“The Best Metal Albums Ever!”).
这幅画面可能有损“愤怒孩子”在金属乐中的声誉，但这支乐队还是在《金属名单的无情之书》(The Merciless Book of Metal Lists)中拥有荣耀的一席之地，这是一份全新的重金属乐队索引大纲，作者是金属与硬核厂牌“In-Effect Records”的创始人霍维·阿布拉姆斯(Howie Abrams)与曾在音乐杂志《Vibe》担任编辑的萨查·詹金斯(Sacha Jenkins)。书中给出的各种名单有的富于文学性（“最佳金属博客”）,有的很有幽默感（“完全没必要存在的重金属分支”）,也有的容易引起争议（“史上最佳金属专辑！”）。
“Stakk Attakk” is No. 40 on the list of “200 Embarrassingly Bad Album Covers,” one of the longer compilations in the book, which is to be released on April 9 by Abrams Image.
《Stakk Attakk》在“200大令人难堪的糟糕封面”中排名第40位，这是全书中较长的汇编名单之一。该书于4月9日由阿布拉姆斯图像(Abrams Image)公司出版。
“If you’re listening to a Reba McEntire album I don’t think you’re sitting there staring at the cover,” Mr. Abrams said. “Metal fans look for every tidbit of information that is available. There is a magnifying glass on everything a band does. A bad album cover is a glaring problem.”
“如果你爱听瑞芭·麦肯泰尔(Reba McEntire)的专辑，估计不会坐下来盯着封面瞧，”阿布拉姆斯说，“但是金属乐迷喜欢搜寻任何能找到的趣闻轶事。乐队的一举一动都会被放大，一张糟糕的专辑封面可是个显眼的问题。”
Still, Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Abrams compiled the list from a place of metal love.
不过詹金斯和阿布拉姆斯是带着对金属乐的热爱来编辑这份名单的。
“Just because someone has a bad logo doesn’t mean we’re not fans of the music,” Mr. Abrams said.
“我们不会因为某人有个难看的标识就不喜欢这种音乐，”阿布拉姆斯说。
So what’s to blame when album covers go wrong? In this slide show is a look at artwork that made the book’s “embarrassing” list, with commentary from the authors.
所以唱片封面不好该怪谁呢？下面可以看到被该书列入“难堪”名单的封面作品，并附有作者的点评。
Anthrax
（1）“炭疽”(Anthrax)
‘Fistful of Metal’ (1984)
《手握金属》(Fistful of Metal，1984)
Mr. Abrams said hapless illustration and anatomical misjudgment mar the debut album by the New York band Anthrax, which joined Metallica, Slayer and Megadeth as the big four of thrash metal. “The tongue is in the wrong place,” he said of the cover drawing, which helped put “Fistful of Metal” in the list’s No. 1 spot. “The way the guts are coming out is weird.” Mr. Jenkins said it “looks like Davy Crockett is eating a mean Michael Jackson’s hand.”
阿布拉姆斯说，拙劣的绘画与错误的人体比例毁了纽约乐队“炭疽”的处女专辑，这支乐队与“金属”(Metallic)、“屠夫”(Slayer)和“Megadeth”并称为激流金属四巨头。“舌头在错误的位置上，”他这样评价封面上的绘画，因此《手握金属》荣登榜首。“内脏涌出的方式很奇怪，”詹金斯先生说，“有点像大卫·克洛科特(Davy Crockett)正在啃迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)的脏手。”
Mr. Abrams added: “You can almost picture them saying, ‘O.K., we have to have a cover that expresses this really brutal action. We’re going to have some guy holding another guy’s head and he’s going to ram his fist from the back of the guy’s head through the mouth and you’re going to see the fist.’ But there’s nothing scary about it.”
阿布拉姆斯补充说：“你简直可以看到他们在说：‘好吧，我们得弄一张封面，表现非常残酷的行为。我们得找个家伙来拎着另外一个家伙的脑袋，还得让他用拳头猛砸那家伙的后脑勺，再从嘴里出来，这样你就能看见拳头了。’但这根本就没什么可怕的。”
Merciless Death
（2）“无情的死亡”(Merciless Death)
‘Evil in the Night’ (2007 rerelease)
《夜晚的恶魔》（Evil in the Night，2007年版）
The cover for a rerelease of this California band’s album was designed by Ed Repka, an artist known for grisly horror-themed illustrations for Megadeth. Mr. Abrams said Mr. Repka is well regarded among metal fans but this cover for “Evil in the Night” comes across as more comical than muscular.
这支加利福尼亚乐队专辑在重新发行这张专辑时采用了这个封面，是艾德·来普卡(Ed Repka)设计的。这位设计师以为“Megadeth”创作可怕的恐怖主题图画而闻名。阿布拉姆斯说，来普卡在金属乐迷中很有名，但这张《夜晚的恶魔》封面太商业，不够有力量。
“It looks like Drew Barrymore went on a horrible camping trip and went for a swim and these horrible corpses starting popping out of the swamp and attacked her,” Mr. Abrams said. “Or it’s kind of like an attractive woman that looks like she’s from ‘The Dukes of Hazzard’ has weird corpse killers eat her. You look at it and chuckle.”
“感觉像德鲁·巴里摩尔(Drew Barrymore)去做恐怖露营，她游泳时，这些可怕的僵尸从沼泽里跳出来袭击她，”阿布拉姆斯说，“要不就是一个好像从《正义前锋》(The Dukes of Hazzard)里出来的漂亮女人被奇怪的僵尸杀手吃了。看着它就想笑。”
Agressor
（3）“侵略者”(Agressor)
‘Neverending Destiny’ (1990)
《无尽宿命》(Neverending Destiny，1990)
For a French thrash metal band that formed in the ’80s, “this album is not terrible,” Mr. Abrams said. What is terrible “is how they spelled their name,” he added. Mr. Jenkins said the cover made the list in part because it is a “horrific rip-off” of the artwork of a more popular metal band, Voivod, known for its “very otherworldly outer space meets biomechanic style.”
对于一支20世纪80年代组建的法国激流金属乐队来说，“这张专辑还不坏，”阿布拉姆斯说，“糟糕的是他们拼写自己名字的方式。”他补充。詹金斯说，这个封面之所以上榜是因为它“可怕地抄袭”了另一个更流行一些的金属乐队“Voivod”的封面。“Voivod”的封面以其“非常飘渺的外层空间结合生物技术”而闻名。
“Is it car parts or is it a robot?” Mr. Abrams wondered of the Agressor cover illustration. “Why is it floating in space? I would imagine they were on drugs at the time and they found something awesome.”
“这是汽车部件还是机器人？”阿布拉姆斯打量着“侵略者”的封面。“它为什么漂浮在空间里？我猜他们当时嗑药了，还以为自己发现了什么了不起的东西。”
Hallows Eve
（4）“万圣节前夜”(Hallows Eve)
‘The Neverending Sleep’ (2008)
《永眠》(The Neverending Sleep，2008)
Mr. Abrams considers this cover “a masterpiece beyond masterpieces” for its depiction of a prevalent theme in metal: the abandoned child.
阿布拉姆斯觉得这个封面是“杰作之外的杰作”，因为它描绘了金属乐中的一个普遍主题——被抛弃的孩子。
“Metal kids tend to feel like outsiders,” he said. “The ‘what do I do now?’ kid is prevalent when you talk about metal. Some of these bands are the first to speak to us about nuclear war or poverty or other bad stuff that goes on in the world that your parents are trying to ignore.”
“喜欢金属乐的孩子都有局外人的感觉，”他说，“在金属乐里，这种‘我到底在做什么’的孩子非常普遍。在这些乐队当中，有一些率先向人们反映了核战争、贫穷或者世界上其他糟糕的事物，这都是父母竭力想去忽略的。”
But he thinks this post-nuclear street scene was a good idea gone bad. “I’m not sure if this is supposed to represent the apocalypse or if they never finished it,” he said.
但他觉得对于这张封面来说，核战之后的街道场景本来是个好点子，结果却被用坏了。“我不确定这代表一种预言，还是他们根本就没画完，”他说。
‘Metal Massacre VI’ (1985)
（5）《金属屠杀VI》(Metal Massacre VI，1985)
Metal Massacre was a well-regarded series of compilations, released by Metal Blade Records, that featured unknown and unsigned bands. Starting with the first release in 1982, the records are credited with introducing Slayer, Metallica and other successful bands. It’s unclear whether the artwork for this album, which featured Dark Angel’s “Welcome to the Slaughterhouse” and Possessed’s “Swing of the Axe,” was “meant to be intentionally cheesy,” Mr. Abrams said.
《金属屠杀》是“金属之刃”(Metal Blade Records)唱片公司颇受好评的合辑系列，收录的都是未成名和未签约的乐队作品。该系列自1982年开始发行，公司靠它推出了“屠夫”、“金属”以及其他成功乐队。这张专辑中收入了“黑暗天使”(Dark Angel)的《欢迎来到屠宰场》(Welcome to the Slaughterhouse)和“着魔”(Posessed)的《挥舞斧头》(Swing of the Axe)，阿布拉姆斯说，它的封面“不知是不是故意要弄得这么滑稽”。
“The skulls and the grim reaper look like a little kid drew them,” he said. “You have this guy or a woman with their head on the ground, and they’ve been severed. How did they get out of the shackles?”
“骷髅和死神看上去像小孩子画的，”他说，“有个男人还是女人的脑袋掉在地上，头被砍掉了，他们是怎么从手铐里脱身的？”
Samson
（6）“萨姆森”(Samson)
‘Head On’ (1980)
《迎头痛击》(Head On，1980)
Mr. Abrams has no polite words for the cover for the second album by this British band. “This is one of the worst cover choices to ever be conceived and approved and realized on a commercially available album,” he said.
对于这支英国乐队第二张专辑的唱片封套，阿布拉姆斯半句好话也没有，“从构思、核准到最后呈现，这是一张烂得前无古人后无来者的商业专辑封面之一，”他说。
The artwork, with its executioner figure, fails to grasp two of the cardinal rules of male metalhead identity, he said: guys should want to be like the band members, and girls should want to sleep with them. “Do either apply here?” Mr. Abrams asked. “I don’t think so.”
封面上是一个刽子手的形象，他说，它没有把握住男性金属乐队成员最基本的两条身份原则——男乐迷应该喜欢乐队成员，女乐迷应该想和乐队成员睡觉。“这个封面符合哪一条？”阿布拉姆斯说，“我觉得哪条都不符合。”
And that head-scratching logo? “It has a little heartbeat thing coming off the left side,” he said. “It’s not going to look good on a T-shirt. You’d be beaten up at school if you wore this.”
至于说这个让人摸不着头脑的标示，“它出现在封面左侧，有点像心电图，”他说，“你绝对不会在T恤衫上见到它，否则穿去学校一定会挨打。”