Most geneticists agree that Native Americans are descended from Siberians who crossed into America 26,000 to 18,000 years ago via a land bridge over the Bering Strait. But while genetic analysis of modern Native Americans lends support to this idea, strong fossil evidence has been lacking.
大部分遗传学者都同意的一点是，美洲原住民的祖先来自西伯利亚，在2.6万年到1.8万年前通过横跨白令海峡的大陆桥进入美洲。然而，尽管对现代美洲原住民进行的基因分析支持这一观点，但一直缺乏有力的化石证据。
Now a nearly complete skeleton of a prehistoric teenage girl, newly discovered in an underwater cave in the Yucatán Peninsula, establishes a clear link between the ancient and modern peoples, scientists say.
现在，科学家称，史前一个十几岁的姑娘留下的一具近乎完整的骨架为古代和现代美洲原住民之间建立了一种清晰的联系。这具骨架是最近在尤卡坦半岛一处水下洞穴中被发现的。
Writing in the journal Science, the researchers report that they analyzed mitochondrial DNA — genetic material passed down through the mother — that was extracted from the skeleton’s wisdom tooth by divers. The analysis reveals that the girl, who lived at least 12,000 years ago, belonged to an Asian-derived genetic lineage seen only in Native Americans.
相关研究人员在《科学》(Science)期刊上撰文通报称，他们分析了潜水员从那具骨架的智齿上提取的线粒体DNA——通过母体遗传的遗传物质。分析显示，生活在至少1.2万年前的这个姑娘属于一个从亚洲派生出去的遗传谱系，该谱系只会出现在美洲原住民身上。
Though her skull, found intact, is more narrow and angular than those of modern Indians, and her face smaller and her features more protruding, “we know that at least the maternal ancestry is shared,” said an author of the study, James Chatters, a forensic anthropologist with Applied Paleoscience, a company in Bothell, Wash.
被发现时，这个姑娘的头骨完好无损。其头骨比现代印第安人的头骨更窄、更尖，她的脸也更小，五官更凸出。但这项研究的作者之一、华盛顿州博塞尔的Applied Paleoscience公司的法医人类学家詹姆斯·查特斯(James Chatters)说，“我们知道，至少他们的母系祖先是共同的。”
The reasons for the differences in skull size and shape are still a mystery, but modern American Indians may have evolved to have broader, larger skulls because of adaptations to different food, social or environmental conditions, Dr. Chatters said.
为何头骨的大小和形状存在差异依然是一个迷，但查特斯博士表示，可能因为适应了不同的食物，社会或自然条件，现代美洲印第安人经过进化后，头骨更宽、更大。
Angélique Corthals, a forensic anthropologist at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, who was not involved with the study, said the find was “very exciting” because it was a full skeleton.
没有参与这项研究的纽约州立大学石溪分校(State University of New York at Stony Brook) 法医人类学家安热莉克·哥图斯(Angélique Corthals)说，这一发现“非常激动人心”，因为这是一具完整的骨架。
“That’s really rare,” she continued. “They’ve been able to retrieve so much of the mitochondrial DNA; that’s what makes it monumental.”
“真的很少见，”她继续说，“他们能提取这么多线粒体DNA；这正是此事意义重大的原因。”
The researchers also used radiocarbon dating to approximate the skeleton’s age.
为了粗略估计骨架主人生活的年代，研究人员也使用了放射性碳年代测定法。
They now hope to retrieve nuclear DNA to determine paternal ancestry and study the skeleton to understand the teenager’s health history, diet and body structure.
他们现在希望提取核DNA，以确定父系祖先，并对骨架进行研究，以了解这个姑娘的健康史、饮食结构和身体结构。
But that will have to wait: For now, the skeleton remains in the cave.
但这还得等一等：因为目前，骨架依然在那个洞穴里。
“Ultimately we’re going to have to retrieve her,” Dr. Chatters said.
“我们最终必须把她取出来，”查特斯博士说。