MATSUE, Japan — Before Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor, Emperor Hirohito criticized plans to go to war with the United States as “self-destructive” and opposed an alliance with Nazi Germany, though he did little to stop the war that Japan waged in his name, according to the long-awaited official history of his reign released on Tuesday.
日本松江——周二，日本公布了外界期待已久的裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)统治时期的官方传记。资料显示，在日本袭击珍珠港前，裕仁天皇批评称，与美国开战属于“自我毁灭”，并反对与纳粹德国结盟，但他基本没有作出努力，来阻止日本以他的名义发起战争。
The 12,000-page history of Hirohito, who was emperor from 1926 to 1989, including during World War II, also shows him exalting over the victories of his armies in China.
这份关于裕仁天皇（1926年-1989年在位，包括二战期间）的长达12000页的历史记录还显示，他对日本军队在中国取得的胜利表示赞赏。
Despite its length and some new details, the report contains little that will surprise historians or challenge the established view that Hirohito had little say in Japan’s decision to go to war, according to the Japanese news media, which had first access to the report. It also confirms the dominant view that Hirohito was reluctant to go to war with the United States.
据最先看到传记的日本新闻媒体透露，尽管篇幅很长，而且还出现了一些新细节，但相关内容没有让历史学家感到震惊，也没有对之前的观点——裕仁天皇在发动战争方面没有太大的发言权——提出挑战。传记还证实了一个主流观点，即裕仁天皇不愿与美国开战。
The most controversial aspect of the report appears to be the fact that it took the Imperial Household Agency almost a quarter of a century to release its official history of Hirohito, who died in 1989 at age 87. The agency, which manages the affairs of the imperial family, explained the delay by saying it took time to put together the 61-volume history from 3,152 documents and records, some of them never previously made public.
宫内厅(Imperial Household Agency)用了将近25年的时间才发布了裕仁天皇传记，这似乎是传记带来的最具争议性的问题。裕仁天皇于1989年逝世，享年87岁。负责处理皇室事务的宫内厅解释称，他们之所以延期公布，是因为他们需要时间从3152份文件与记录中整理出这部长达61卷的传记，其中一些内容之前从未公之于众。
The delay is also widely attributed to the sensitivity of the subject in Japan, which has not fully come to terms with its actions during the war or with Hirohito’s responsibility for it.
人们普遍认为，延期发布是因为该话题在日本属于敏感话题，而日本还没有完全接受与该国战时行为相关的事实，以及裕仁天皇为此所担负的责任。
While Hirohito was revered as a living god by Japan’s soldiers and citizens, most historians portray him as largely a powerless figurehead. At the same time, the emperor was criticized for letting himself be used as a spiritual symbol for Japanese militarism, presiding over the meetings of political and military leaders at which decisions to go to war were made, and reviewing military parades atop his white horse.
虽然裕仁天皇被日本士兵和民众奉为一位活生生的神祗，大多数历史学家将他描述为一个基本上没有权力的名义领袖。与此同时，人们对裕仁天皇的批评是，他允许自己被当做日本军国主义的精神象征，主持了有政治及军事领袖参加的与开战有关的决定性会议，并骑着白马检阅军队。
The official history was released at a time of renewed focus, both within Japan and among its neighbors, on how Japan’s wartime behavior should be remembered. In Japan, nationalists have grown more outspoken in demanding more positive portrayals of Japan’s actions, saying that Japan’s empire-building was not so different from that of Western nations. At the same time, China and South Korea, two victims of Japanese imperial ambitions in the early 20th century, have accused Japan of trying to whitewash the darker episodes of its past.
日本公布这部官方传记时，其国内及邻国开始再次关注应该如何看待日本战时行为的问题。在日本，民族主义者越来越直白地要求比较正面地描述日本的行动，称日本扩张疆域的行为与西方国家没有太大不同。与此同时，在20世纪早期饱受日本帝国主义野心侵害的中国和韩国指责日本试图粉饰过去的黑暗时期。
While the agency’s official history of Hirohito was long awaited by scholars, it failed to contain some hoped-for material, such as records of several meetings between the emperor and Gen. Douglas MacArthur, the commander of the American-led occupation forces after the war, who decided against putting Hirohito on trial as a war criminal. Instead, it contained information only about the two leaders’ first meeting, on Sept. 27, 1945, that had already been made public in the past, according to the news agency Kyodo News.
虽然学者们对裕仁天皇的官方传记期待已久，但该传记没有涉及一些他们期望看到的内容，比如裕仁天皇战后与以美国为首的驻日盟军的司令道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟上将(Gen. Douglas MacArthur)见面的会议记录，后者做出决定，不将裕仁天皇当做战犯进行审判。据日本共同通讯社(Kyodo News Agency)透露，传记只提到了两人在1945年9月27日第一次会面的情况，而日本之前已经公布了这些内容。
In delving into Hirohito’s views of the war, the report said that in the time before the Japanese Navy’s surprise attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, he said that Japan had no chance of winning a war with the United States, Kyodo reported. “It is nothing less than a self-destructive war,” the emperor was quoted as saying on July 31, 1941.
共同社报道称，传记探究了裕仁天皇对战争的看法，文中显示，在日本海军于1941年12月7日突袭珍珠港前，裕仁天皇称日本在与美国的战争中没有机会获胜。传记称，裕仁天皇在1941年7月31日表示，“这就是一场自我毁灭的战争。”
The discussion was part of a broader debate that started in the 1930s about whether Japan, a fast-expanding colonial empire, should be gearing up for a possible future war with the United States in the Pacific or the Soviet Union on the Asian mainland.
上述讨论是始于20世纪30年代的更广泛争论的一部分，争论主题是日本这个快速扩张的殖民帝国是否应该为未来与美国在亚太地区的战争，或与苏联在亚洲大陆的战争做好准备。