TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has staked a significant part of his governing agenda on his plans to empower women. But an unrelenting scandal over allegations that a right-wing education group received improper political favors has ensnared two of the most prominent women in Abe’s life: his wife, Akie Abe, and his defense minister, Tomomi Inada.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)将自己的相当大一部分执政议程押注于赋权给女性的计划。但一个持续不散的丑闻——有关一个右翼教育机构获得不正当政治优待的指控——困住了安倍生命中最重要的两个女人：他的妻子安倍昭恵(Akie Abe)和他的防卫大臣稻田朋美(Tomomi Inada)。
The scandal has dented Abe’s popularity, and his feminist credentials have been especially hard hit.
这个丑闻削弱了安倍的民望，他在女性主义问题上的信誉尤其受到重创。
As the scandal began to dominate headlines last month, Akie Abe resigned as honorary principal of a new school planned by the right-wing group in Osaka. The group, Moritomo Gakuen, promotes elements from Japan’s prewar patriotic school curriculum and bought land from the government at a steep discount.
随着这个丑闻在上月开始占据新闻头条，安倍昭惠辞去了一所新学校的荣誉校长职位，该校正是由前述的大阪右翼组织筹建。这个名为森友学园(Moritomo Gakuen)的组织推广战前的爱国学校课程的内容，还以十分优惠的价格政府手中购买了土地。
Last week, the leader of the group said Akie Abe gave him an envelope of cash two years ago as a donation from the prime minister, a claim Shinzo Abe has vociferously denied.
该机构负责人上周表示，安倍昭惠两年前给了他一个装有现金的信封，作为首相提供的捐款——对此安倍晋三一直坚决否认。
Inada, Japan’s second female defense minister, whom Shinzo Abe has been grooming to be his successor, is fighting calls for her resignation after she retracted a statement that she had never represented the school group in a lawsuit. In fact, she had appeared in court on its behalf in 2004. She said she had initially forgotten and apologized in Parliament.
稻田朋美此前声明从未在一起诉讼中担任该学校组织的代理律师，日前她撤回了该声明。作为日本第二位女防卫大臣，稻田朋美一直被安倍晋三作为自己的接班人来培养，如今正在艰难应对要求她辞职的呼声。事实上，她曾经于2004年在法庭上为这家机构辩护。她后来说自己一开始忘了，并在议会上致歉。
High-profile women are often scrutinized in Japan, which ranks the lowest among advanced industrial countries for female representation in Parliament. But the emergence of Akie Abe and Inada as key figures in the school scandal has emboldened critics who have long portrayed them as problematic advocates for women’s rights.
日本是女性议员最少的先进工业国家之一，在那里高调的女性往往会遭到苛刻的审视。但安倍昭惠和稻田朋美成为这起学校丑闻的关键人物，让长久以来将她们描绘成可疑的女性权利倡导者的批评者变得更加底气十足。
Akie Abe’s feminism is “quite shallow,” said Jiro Yamaguchi, a professor of political science at Hosei University. He added that although Akie Abe appeared occasionally at events that campaigned for women in agriculture or innovation in women’s work-life balance, the first lady had not been seen as committed to real, systemic change.
安倍昭惠的女性主义“十分肤浅”，法政大学(Hosei University)政治学教授山口二郎(Jiro Yamaguchi)说。他还表示，尽管安倍昭惠偶尔似乎会出席宣传农业领域的女性或女性工作生活平衡新方法的活动中，但人们不曾看到这位第一夫人致力于真正的系统性变化。
Akie Abe, who did not respond to requests for comment, has supported women’s causes in Iran and is a patron of the Asian University for Women, a school in Bangladesh whose mission is to provide a college education to women from deprived backgrounds. In her memoir, “I Live My Own Life,” Akie Abe said she supported her husband’s efforts to create a society in which “women can shine,” writing that “women don’t need to work just like men do.”
安倍昭惠没有回应时报的置评请求。她一直支持伊朗的女性事业，同时还是亚洲女子大学(Asian University for Women)的赞助人——这所位于孟加拉国的学校旨在为贫困家庭的女性提供接受大学教育的机会。安倍昭惠曾在自己的回忆录《过自己的人生》(I Live My Own Life)中表示，她支持丈夫创造一个“女性可以发光”的社会，还写道，“女人不需要像男人那样工作。”
The Japanese news media sometimes describes Akie Abe as the prime minister’s “at-home opposition party,” because she has expressed more progressive views on issues such as lesbian and gay rights and nuclear power in addition to supporting women’s causes.
日本新闻媒体有时将安倍昭惠称为日本首相的“家中反对党”，因为她在男女同性恋权利、核武器，以及支持女性事业等议题上表达过更激进的观点。
But the disclosure of her ties to the right-wing school group has undermined that reputation.
但她与那所右翼学校组织的关系被曝光，破坏了这种声誉。
Moritomo Gakuen already operates a kindergarten that requires students to recite the Imperial Rescript on Education, a 19th-century royal decree that prescribes that subjects be “ever united in loyalty and filial piety” and that “husbands and wives be harmonious.” Its leader, Yasunori Kagoike, has been accused of bigotry against Chinese and Koreans.
森友学园已经运营了一所要求学生背诵《教育敕语》的幼儿园，那是日本天皇在19世纪颁布的一条法令，要求臣民“永远团结在忠诚和孝道之下”，还要求“夫妻和谐”。森友学园负责人笼池泰典(Yasunori Kagoike)一直被指控对中国和韩国人存在偏见。
In response to questions for Akie Abe, the office of the prime minister referred to his comments in Parliament Friday, when he defended his wife, saying that she had never given money to the school group and that neither of them were involved in selling public land to the proposed school.
在回应时报就安倍昭惠提出的问题时，首相办公室提到了他周五在议会上发表的言论。当时他为自己的妻子进行辩护，称她从来不曾给那所教育机构提供资金，而且他们两人都不曾涉嫌将公有土地卖给那所计划建设的学校。
Moritomo Gakuen has decided it will not build the school and has been ordered to return the land to the government. Kagoike is expected to testify in Parliament Thursday.
森友学园已经决定不再建那所学校，它被要求将土地归还给政府。预计笼池泰典将于周四在议会上作证。
Women who want to see more female representation in positions of power say they are even more disappointed by Inada.
希望看到更多女人获得权力职位的女性表示，她们对稻田朋美更加失望。
“Inada is anti-feminist,” said Mari Miura, a professor of political science at Sophia University, pointing to the defense minister’s membership in an ultraconservative activist group that believes women belong in the home. She added that Inada had resisted calls to push legislation that would allow married women to use different surnames from those of their husbands, a cause important to Japanese feminists.
“稻田朋美是反女性主义的，”上智大学(Sophia University)政治学教授三浦麻里（Mari Miura，音）说。她指出这位防卫大臣是一个极保守活动团体的成员，该组织认为女性就应该待在家里。她还提到，稻田朋美曾抵制推动一项法案的要求，该法案会允许已婚女性使用不同于丈夫的姓氏，这是一项对日本女性主义者十分重要的议题。
Miura said Shinzo Abe had chosen Inada because she shared his revisionist view that Japan has been unfairly accused of atrocities in World War II. “The women chosen by him are just symbolic or a cosmetic way of conveying women’s advancement,” Miura said. “And that doesn’t really empower women at all.”
三浦麻里表示，安倍晋三之所以选择稻田朋美，是因为她持有和他一样的历史粉饰主义观点，即日本被指在二战犯下的罪行是不公平的。“被他选中的女人只是象征性的，或说是用以体现女性进步的装点门面的东西，”三浦麻里说。“那根本不会真的给女性赋权。”
Inada was one of three women to assume a political leadership position in Japan last summer, but from the moment she was appointed, critics have questioned her qualifications.
稻田朋美是去年夏天开始担任日本政治领导人职务的三位女性之一。然而从她获得任命时开始，批评人士便一直对她的资格表示质疑。
Even in her own Liberal Democratic Party, some lawmakers have asked why a lawyer who had never been a vice minister in either the Defense or Foreign Affairs Ministries would be selected for such a significant post, particularly as tensions in the region escalate, with North Korea developing nuclear missiles.
就算是在她所属的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)内，一些议员也在询问为何一位不曾担任防卫省和外务省副大臣的律师会被选中担任这样一个重要职位，尤其是在地区紧张关系升级的时候——朝鲜在研发核导弹。
Questions about Inada’s competence have intensified after disclosures that the Ground Self-Defense Force, Japan’s army, had withheld reports on the activities of peacekeeping units in South Sudan.
在日本陆上自卫队隐瞒有关南苏丹维和部队的报告的事情被曝光之后，外界对稻田朋美能力的质疑进一步加剧。
While both Inada and Shinzo Abe had portrayed the operation as safe, the reports, which surfaced in the Japanese news media last month, described several incidents of “combat” between warring factions in South Sudan. The law forbids Japanese troops to participate in missions where active conflict is involved.
尽管稻田朋美和安倍晋三都将这项行动描述得十分安全，但上月被新闻媒体曝光的报告提到了南苏丹交战各方之间发生的几场“战斗”。日本法律禁止本国军队参与涉及激烈冲突的任务。
In a faxed statement, Inada said that she had not seen the leader of the Moritomo Gakuen group for 10 years. And she said that she had ordered a special investigation into the South Sudan reports. If any problems emerged, she wrote, “I will try to improve it under the defense minister’s responsibility.”
在一份通过传真发送的声明中，稻田朋美称她已经有十年不曾见过森友学园的负责人。她表示已经下令对关南苏丹报告进行特别调查。还写道，如果发现有任何问题，“我会尽防卫大臣的责任，尽力改善它。”
But analysts say that if army officials or bureaucrats hid the reports from her, that demonstrates her lack of power in the ministry.
但分析人士表示，如果有军官或官员向她隐瞒了这些报告，那也说明她对这个部门缺乏控制。
“It’s hard to see how she’s going to gain any amount of authority or trust from the public, let alone the people she has authority over,” said Jeffrey Hornung, a fellow in the security and foreign affairs program at Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA, a research institute based in Washington.
“很难看出她会如何从公众那里获得什么威信或信任，更不用说那些由她管辖的人，”总部位于华盛顿的研究机构笹川和平财团(Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA)安全与外交政策研究员杰弗里·霍尔农(Jeffrey Hornung)说。