Attorney General Jeff Sessions offered an indignant defense on Tuesday against what he called “an appalling and detestable lie” that he may have colluded with the Russian effort to interfere in the 2016 election, showcasing his loyalty to President Trump in an often contentious Senate hearing but declining to answer central questions about his or the president’s conduct.
周二，司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)针对他口中“一个骇人听闻、令人厌恶的谎言”——也就是他或许曾与俄罗斯人串谋干预2016年美国总统选举的说法——愤然为自己辩护。他在参议院的一场充斥着争论的听证会上展示了对特朗普总统的忠诚，但却拒绝回答与他本人或总统的行为有关的核心问题。
Sounding by turns defiant and wounded, Mr. Sessions, a former senator from Alabama, often infused his testimony with more emotion than specifics. He insisted repeatedly that it would be “inappropriate” to discuss his private conversations with the president, however relevant they might be, visibly frustrating senators who have been conducting their own inquiry into Russia’s election meddling.
塞申斯这位前阿拉巴马州参议员总是给自己的证词注入更多情感而非细节，时而语带挑衅，时而又表示出很受伤的样子。他反复重申，把自己和总统的私人谈话拿出来讨论“不妥”——尽管它们或许与听证会的主题相关——这显然让一直就俄罗斯干预美国总统选举一事进行质询的参议员们颇为沮丧。
Mr. Sessions cast his recusal three months ago from Russia-related inquiries as a mere procedural matter, given his status as a high-profile Trump campaign surrogate last year, and not a product of any wrongdoing.
塞申斯以其曾在去年高调地为特朗普助选为由，将其三个月前回避通俄门调查之举描绘为单纯的程序性问题，而非不当行为的产物。
“I recused myself from any investigation into the campaign for president,” he told the Senate Intelligence Committee, in what was the latest highly charged congressional hearing of the Trump age. “I did not recuse myself from defending my honor against scurrilous and false allegations.”
“我自行回避了所有针对总统竞选活动的调查，”他在特朗普时代最新一场群情激荡的国会听证会上告诉参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)。“但我不会放弃驳斥下流的不实指控、捍卫自身荣誉的机会。”
Yet at times, Mr. Sessions seemed committed to revealing as little information as possible, particularly about his interactions with the president. Pressed on his rationale, Mr. Sessions allowed that Mr. Trump had not invoked executive privilege concerning the testimony of his attorney general.
不过有时候，塞申斯似乎致力于尽可能少地披露信息，尤其是关于他与总统如何互动的信息。当参议员们就其给出的理由展开追问时，塞申斯称，特朗普没有动用行政特权干预自己的司法部长作证。
“I am protecting the right of the president to assert it if he chooses,” Mr. Sessions said.
“我是在捍卫总统行使这项权力的权利——如果他选择行使的话，”塞申斯说。
“I don’t understand how you can have it both ways,” said Senator Angus King of Maine, an independent who caucuses with Democrats. “You’ve testified that only the president can assert it. I just don’t understand the legal basis for your refusal to answer.”
“我不明白你怎么能两边的道理都占上，”立场一般偏向于民主党的缅因州独立参议员安格斯·金(Angus King)说。“你作证说唯有总统可以行使这项权力。我完全不明白你拒绝回答问题的法律依据何在。”
Mr. Sessions’s appearance did little to move the White House beyond the shadow of Russia-tinged investigations, which have for months consumed the president and his team — often with firestorms of Mr. Trump’s own making.
塞申斯的亮相基本无助于白宫走出通俄门调查的阴影，相关调查连月来一直损害着总统及其团队的形象——常常是借助由特朗普一手掀起的风暴。
On Tuesday, as the attorney general came to Capitol Hill, his administration was straining to play down suggestions that Mr. Trump is considering firing Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating possible ties between the president’s associates and Russian officials.
周二，当司法部长前往国会山时，他的部门竭力淡化这样的说法：特朗普正考虑解雇罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)，也就是那位受命调查总统身边人与俄罗斯官员之间的可能关联的特别检察官。
Mr. Sessions spoke from the same hearing room where James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, testified last week that Mr. Trump had tried to derail an investigation into Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser. Mr. Comey, whom Mr. Trump fired last month, also accused the president of lying and defaming him and the F.B.I.
塞申斯发言时所在的听证会场，上周曾迎来前联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)。科米在那里作证称，特朗普曾试图终结针对其前任国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查。于上月被特朗普解雇的科米，还指控总统撒谎并抹黑他和联邦调查局。
That testimony colored much of Tuesday’s hearing, with Democrats pressing Mr. Sessions on several key elements of Mr. Comey’s account. Among the questions: Why was Mr. Sessions involved in Mr. Comey’s firing — months after Mr. Sessions had removed himself from involvement in the investigations after failing to disclose past contacts with the Russian ambassador?
科米的证词影响着周二听证会的很多时刻，民主党人就其说法中的几个关键元素追问塞申斯。其中一个问题是：塞申斯在未披露自己与俄罗斯大使以往的接触一事曝光后退出通俄门调查，为何却在几个月后参与解雇科米？
“It is absurd, frankly,” Mr. Sessions began, “to suggest that a recusal from a single specific investigation would render the attorney general unable to manage the leadership of the various Department of Justice law enforcement components that conduct thousands of investigations.”
“坦率地说，这很荒谬，”塞申斯开口说道，“居然觉得司法部长回避一项特定的调查，就意味着他不能管理开展成千上万项调查的司法部各执法机构的领导层。”
Mr. Sessions also addressed Mr. Comey’s recollection of a private meeting in February with Mr. Trump, when Mr. Comey said the president pressured him to drop the Flynn investigation. Mr. Trump asked to be left alone with Mr. Comey, the former director has said. Mr. Sessions stayed behind at first but then left, according to Mr. Comey. He later told Mr. Sessions to never again leave him alone with Mr. Trump.
塞申斯还就科米关于其与特朗普今年2月的一次私人会面的回忆做了回应——科米称总统曾敦促他放弃对弗林的调查。这位前联邦调查局长说，总统当时要求他单独留下。按照科米的说法，塞申斯起初待在后边，但随后便离开了。他后来告诉塞申斯，再也不要留下他单独面对特朗普。
On Tuesday, Mr. Sessions seemed to confirm at least fragments of Mr. Comey’s rendering.
周二，塞申斯似乎至少确认了科米的部分描述。
“I do recall being one of the last ones to leave,” he said. “I don’t know how that occurred.”
“我不记得自己是最后离开的人之一，”他说。“我不知道事情是怎么发生的。”
But Mr. Sessions said he did not see the arrangement as “a major problem,” calling Mr. Comey an experienced official who “could handle himself well.”
但塞申斯说他并不认为这种安排是“一个大问题”，他说科米是一个经验丰富的官员，“可以照顾好自己”。
After the meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Comey, Mr. Sessions recalled, Mr. Comey “expressed concern to me about that private conversation.”
塞申斯回忆说，特朗普和科米会面后，科米“向我表达了他对那场私人谈话的忧虑之情。”
“And I agreed with him, essentially, that there are rules on private conversations with the president,” Mr. Sessions continued. “But there’s not a prohibition.”
“而我基本同意他的看法，和总统的私人谈话要遵循一些规则，”塞申斯继续说道。“不过并不存在什么禁令。”