Chocolate may not be as hazardous to your waistline as you think — at least in moderation.
巧克力对你的腰围产生的影响，也许不像你以为的那么恐怖——至少适量进食情况如此。
A new study shows that people who eat chocolate frequently have lower body mass indexes than those who eat it less often. The researchers could not explain precisely why something usually loaded with sugar, fat and calories would have a beneficial effect on weight. But they suspect that antioxidants and other compounds in chocolate may deliver a metabolic boost that can offset its caloric downside.
一项新研究发现，频繁吃巧克力的人相比那些不常吃的人，其身体质量指数更低。对于这种通常含有大量糖、脂肪和热量的食物为何会对体重有益，研究人员并不能给出确切的解释。但他们怀疑，巧克力中含有的抗氧化剂和其他化合物可能会刺激新陈代谢，从而抵销它的高热量影响。
Chocoholics may know that in recent years chocolate has been linked to a growing list of health benefits. Studies have found, for example, that regularly eating chocolate may lower blood pressure and cardiovascular risk, and improve cholesterol and insulin regulation.
巧克力爱好者或许知道，近年来研究发现，这种食物可以带来一系列健康益处，而且相关的清单还在不断加长。比方说研究发现，常常吃巧克力也许可降低血压和患心血管疾病风险，改善对胆固醇和胰岛素的调节功能。
Although the new study is among the first to look at chocolate’s effect on weight, the findings “are compatible with other evidence showing favorable metabolic effects that are known to track with body mass index,” said Dr. Beatrice A. Golomb, lead author of the study and an associate professor of medicine at the University of California, San Diego.
这项新研究是首批有关巧克力与体重关系的研究之一，它的第一作者、加州大学圣迭戈分校(University of California, San Diego)助理医学教授比阿特丽丝·A·戈罗姆(Beatrice A. Golomb)说，研究结果“与其他证明巧克力可带来新陈代谢益处的证据相吻合，这些新陈代谢指征已知可标志身体质量指数。”
Dr. Golomb’s study, published in Archives of Internal Medicine and financed by the National Institutes of Health, involved roughly 1,000 adults. The researchers looked at data on how often they exercised, the amount and type of calories they ate — including a breakdown of the types of dietary fat they consumed — and how their health and weight related to their chocolate intake. On average, the subjects were middle-aged, exercised about three times a week and ate chocolate about twice a week. There was no breakdown of the kinds of chocolate they ate, whether dark, milk or white.
戈罗姆的研究发表于《内科学文献》(Archives of Internal Medicine)上，得到了美国国家卫生研究所(National Institutes of Health)的资助，受试者为约1000名成年人。研究人员审视了各类数据，包括他们锻炼的次数，摄入热量的总量和类型，所食用脂肪的类型，以及吃巧克力与其健康和体重构成了何种关联。大体来说，受试者为中年人，每周锻炼三次，吃两次巧克力。研究者并没有区分他们所吃巧克力的种类，比如究竟是黑巧克力、牛奶巧克力，还是白巧克力。
The people who ate chocolate the most frequently, despite eating more calories and exercising no differently from those who ate the least chocolate, tended to have lower B.M.I.’s. There was a difference of roughly five to seven pounds between subjects who ate five servings of chocolate a week and those who ate none, Dr. Golomb said.
那些吃巧克力最频繁的人，尽管摄入了更多的热量，而且锻炼强度与吃巧克力最少的人无异，但身体质量指数往往较低。据戈罗姆说，每周吃五份巧克力的受试者比起一份都不吃的人相比，体重大致轻了5-7磅。
Dietary studies can be unreliable, since so many complicating factors can influence results, and it is difficult to pinpoint cause and effect. But the researchers adjusted their results for a number of variables, including age, gender, depression, vegetable consumption, and fat and calorie intake. “It didn’t matter which of those you added, the relationship remained very stably significant,” said Dr. Golomb.
饮食研究有时不太可靠，因为有许多复杂的因素可以影响结果，而且很难确切地找出其中的因果关系。但研究者可以通过一系列变量，包括年龄、性别、抑郁症状、蔬菜摄入量、脂肪和热量摄入量，来对结论进行调整。“不管你加入了哪个变量，巧克力与体重的因果关系仍然具有稳定的显著性。”
Still, the findings should not be taken as a license to overindulge in chocolate eggs and bunnies this Easter. Dr. Golomb cautioned that it was the frequency of chocolate consumption — not the amount per serving — that had a beneficial effect on B.M.I. Indeed, there was a small trend toward higher B.M.I.’s among those consuming larger amounts of chocolate per sitting.
不过，这个发现并不能向你提供一张免死金牌，让你可以肆无忌惮大食巧克力豆和复活节巧克力兔子。戈罗姆提醒说，对身体质量指数带来积极作用的，是进食巧克力的频率，而非每次进食的份量。事实上，每次吃巧克力较多的人，其身体质量指数往往要略高一些。
“It’s not the case that eating the largest amount of chocolate is beneficial; it’s that eating it more often was favorable,” Dr. Golomb said. “If you eat 10 pounds of chocolate a day, that’s not going to be a favorable thing.”
“并不是说大吃特吃巧克力对身体有益；而是说吃巧克力的次数越多，好处越大，”戈罗姆说：“如果你一天吃掉10磅巧克力，肯定对你没好处。”
The idea for the study came to Dr. Golomb a few years ago at an American Heart Association conference, when Dr. Golomb was sitting next to a nutritionist who studies chocolate. “This lovely chocolate dessert cart came out, and she looked at it forlornly and said, ‘Too bad it has all these calories,’ ” she recalled.
戈罗姆是在几年前产生了这项研究的想法，当时她参加了美国心脏学会(American Heart Association)的一次会议，身边刚好坐着一位研究巧克力的营养学家。“满载着巧克力的可爱的甜点车推过来时，她愁眉苦脸地看着它，说，‘可惜它的热量太高了，’”她回忆说。
Dr. Golomb was familiar with research on animals showing that polyphenols, a type of antioxidant found in abundance in chocolate — particularly dark chocolate — increased muscular performance and lean muscle mass and could reduce weight without changes in calorie consumption or exercise levels. That, along with the research on humans showing all the other benefits that tend to go along with improved fitness, including lower blood pressure and better regulation of insulin, led Dr. Golomb to suspect that the calories in chocolate would be offset by improvements in metabolism. So the net result of eating chocolate on body weight, she thought, would be a neutral one.
此前，戈罗姆对相关动物实验的结果非常熟悉，她知道巧克力，尤其是黑巧克力中富含多酚——一种抗氧化剂，可以在不改变动物热量消耗或运动水平的前提下，提高其肌肉性能、增加肌肉量，同时降低体重。她也看到了很多人体试验，证明巧克力可带来各种健康益处，包括降低血糖和改善胰岛素调节能力。她因此猜想，巧克力带来的新陈代谢刺激作用也许能抵销它含有的热量。她认为，这样一来食用巧克力对体重带来的最终结果，可能是中性的。