Let's start the new year on scientifically sound footing by addressing some nutritional falsehoods that circulate widely in cyberspace, locker rooms, supermarkets and health food stores. As a result, millions of people are squandering hard-earned dollars on questionable, even hazardous foods and supplements.
新年伊始，让我们以科学为立足点，谈谈一些在网络、健身房更衣室、超市和健康食品商店里常见的营养传闻。正是这些不实的传言，导致上百万人把辛苦挣来的钱花在了可疑甚至有害的食品和营养补剂上。
For starters, when did "chemical" become a dirty word? That's a question raised by one of Canada's brightest scientific minds: Joe Schwarcz, director of the Office for Science and Society at McGill University in Montreal. Dr. Schwarcz, who has received high honors from Canadian and American scientific societies, is the author of several best-selling books that attempt to set the record straight on a host of issues that commonly concern health-conscious people.
先从头说起，是从什么时候开始，“化学品”成了让人闻之变色的词语？这个疑问是由加拿大其中一位最优秀的科学家提出的，他叫乔·施沃茨(Joe Schwarcz)，是蒙特利尔的麦吉尔大学科学和社会办公室(Office for Science and Society at McGill University)主任。施沃茨博士曾被加拿大和美国的科学界授予多项崇高荣誉，著有几本畅销书，写作这些书的目的是为了向那些关注健康的人解答一系列普遍关注的顾虑。
I've read two of his books, "Science, Sense and Nonsense" (published in 2009) and "The Right Chemistry" (2012), and recently attended a symposium on the science of food that Dr. Schwarcz organized at McGill.
我读过他的两本书，一本叫《科学，理智与无知》（Science, Sense and Nonsense，于2009年出版），一本叫《对的化学》（The Right Chemistry，2012年出版），最近还去麦吉尔大学参加了由他组织的一场有关食品科学的研讨会。
What follows are tips from his books and the symposium that can help you make wiser choices about what does, and does not, pass your lips in 2013.
以下，我介绍的就是施沃茨博士的著作和研讨会中提出的一些小窍门，它们可以帮助你在2013年，在哪些东西该吃、哪些不该吃这个问题上，做出更明智的选择。
CURED MEATS Many health-conscious people avoid cured meats like hot dogs and bacon because the nitrites with which they are preserved can react with naturally occurring amines to form nitrosamines. Nitrosamines have produced mutations in cells cultured in the laboratory and cancer in animals treated with very high doses.
腌肉 不少注重健康的人会尽量不吃像热狗和培根这种腌肉食品，因为腌肉中的亚硝酸盐会与自然产生的胺类反应，产生亚硝酸胺。而在实验室中可以发现，亚硝酸胺可以导致细胞发生突变，大剂量食用可使动物患上癌症。
As an alternative, sandwich lovers often buy organic versions of processed meats or products without added nitrites. Without preservatives, these foods may not be protected from bacterial contamination. And despite their labels, they may contain nitrites. According to Dr. Schwarcz, organic processed meats labeled "uncured" may be preserved with highly concentrated, nitrate-rich celery juice treated with a bacterial culture that produces nitrites.
爱吃三明治的人因此放弃了腌肉，改吃有机加工的肉食或不额外添加亚硝酸盐的肉制品。但因为没有防腐剂，这类食品可能会被细菌污染。而且就算标签上没有注明，这些肉制品可能仍含有亚硝酸盐。据施沃茨博士介绍，打上了“非腌制”标签的有机加工肉食品可能在高度浓缩、含有大量硝酸盐的芹菜汁中保存过，在遇到细菌滋生的环境后仍会生成亚硝酸盐。
If you're really concerned about your health, you'd be wise to steer clear of processed meats - organic, nitrite-free or otherwise. High saturated fat and salt content place them low on the nutritional totem pole.
如果你真的非常重视自己的健康，明智之举当是小心避免各种加工肉类，无论它是有机的、不含亚硝酸盐的、抑或是其他种类食品。这类肉制品含有高饱和脂肪和盐份，在营养学的图腾柱上位于底端。
MEAT GLUE Never heard of it? You may have eaten it, especially if you dine out often. At WD-50 in New York, the chef, Wylie Dufresne, makes his famous shrimp noodles with the enzyme transglutaminase, a k a meat glue. It binds protein molecules, gluing together small pieces of fish, meat or poultry.
肉胶 从没听过这种东西？你也许吃过它，假如你常常在外面用餐，尤其可能如此。在纽约的WD-50餐厅，主厨威利·杜方(Wylie Dufresne)用谷氨酰胺转胺酶，也就是一种肉胶来制作他著名的龙虾面。这种酶可以将小片的鱼肉、猪肉和家禽肉黏合在一起，让它们的蛋白质分子发生交联。
The Japanese use meat glue to create artificial crab meat from pollock. Others use it to combine lamb and scallops, or to make sausages that hold together without casings.
日本人通过肉胶，用鳕鱼制成了人造蟹肉。还有人用这种物质来重组小羊肉和扇贝，或者在没有肠衣的情况下制成了香肠。
Sound frightening? It shouldn't. The enzyme is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as "generally recognized as safe," and there is no reason to think otherwise. Our bodies produce it to help blood clot, Dr. Schwarcz points out. When consumed, it breaks down like any protein into its component amino acids in our digestive tracts.
听起来很吓人？大可不必。美国食品药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)认为这种酶“公认为是安全的”，没有理由认为它有危险。施沃茨博士指出，我们的身体会生成谷氨酰胺转胺酶来防止生成血栓。在将这种酶吃进肚子里后，它会跟所有蛋白质一样，在我们的消化系统里分解成氨基酸。
There is, however, one possible indirect hazard: If glued-together animal protein is not thoroughly cooked, dangerous bacteria that originally contaminated the meat could remain viable within the fused product.
不过，在这当中也存在一个可能的间接风险：假如黏合起来的动物蛋白质未经充分煮熟，在改性后的肉制品里，最初污染了肉类的危险的细菌有可能仍然存活。
TRANS FATS The removal of heart-damaging trans fats from processed foods is a much-ballyhooed boon to health. But "not all trans fats are fiends," Dr. Schwarcz notes. Certain ones can legally, and healthfully, be added to dairy products, meal-replacement bars, soy milk and fruit juice.
反式脂肪 加工食品中去除了对心脏有害的反式脂肪，这是一种言过其实的宣传。施沃茨说，“并非所有反式脂肪都是魔鬼。”某些添加到乳制品、代餐谷物棒、豆奶和果汁中的反式脂肪是符合法律规定的，而且也是健康的。
The word "trans" refers to the arrangement of hydrogen and carbon atoms in a fatty acid. The trans formation linked to heart disease is formed when vegetable oils are hardened to prolong shelf life in a manufacturing process called hydrogenation. Natural trans fats, like those in meat and dairy products, take a slightly different form, resulting in an entirely different effect on health.
“反式”一词指的是脂肪酸中碳原子和氢原子的排列。为了延长植物油的保质期，让油脂硬化，对其采取一种名为加氢催化的工艺，这样产生的反式结构可能与心脏病有关联。而自然界的反式脂肪，像是在肉类和乳制品中存在的这类反式脂肪，分子结构略有不同，而其对健康所产生的作用与人工的反式脂肪大相径庭。
The most widely consumed "good" trans fat is conjugated linoleic acid, which research has shown can help weight-conscious people lose fat and gain muscle. Various studies have suggested that C.L.A., now widely sold as a supplement, also can enhance immune function and reduce atherosclerosis, high blood pressure and inflammation.
在“好的”反式脂肪中，最为广泛使用的是共轭亚油酸，研究显示它可以帮助在意体重的人减脂增肌。多项研究表明，现在普遍当作营养补剂出售的共轭亚油酸还可以增强免疫功能、减少动脉粥样硬化、高血压和炎症的发病可能。
ORGANIC OR NOT? Wherever I shop for food these days, I find an ever-widening array of food products labeled "organic" and "natural." But are consumers getting the health benefits they pay a premium for?
有机与否？这些日子，不管我去哪儿买食物，总会发现标着“有机”和“天然”食品的柜面越来越大。但是消费者付出了额外的花费，是否真的得到了健康方面的益处？
Until the 20th century, Dr. Schwarcz wrote, all farming was "organic," with manure and compost used as fertilizer and "natural" compounds of arsenic, mercury and lead used as pesticides.
施沃茨在书中写道，直到20世纪，所有农业生产都是“有机”的，使用粪肥和堆肥作为肥料，同时也都是“天然”的，使用砷、汞和铅作杀虫剂。
Might manure used today on organic farms contain disease-causing micro-organisms? Might organic produce unprotected by insecticides harbor cancer-causing molds? It's a possibility, Dr. Schwarcz said. But consumers aren't looking beyond the organic sales pitch.
如今有机农场使用的粪肥是否会含有致病的微生物？有机食品是否可能因为未经杀虫剂的保护，因而含有致癌的霉菌？施沃茨博士说，这种可能性是存在的，但消费者受到有机食品推销说辞的那一通狂轰滥炸，并不会考虑得那么长远。
Also questionable is whether organic foods, which are certainly kinder to the environment, are more nutritious. Though some may contain slightly higher levels of essential micronutrients, like vitamin C, the difference between them and conventionally grown crops may depend more on where they are produced than how.
另一个需要质疑的问题是：有机食品的确对环境更为友好，可是，它确实更有营养吗？尽管一些有机食品中所含的人体必需微量元素，比如维生素C，确实要略微高一点，但有机食品与以传统方法种植的作物之间存在的区别，更有可能是取决于它们种植的地点，而不是种植的方式。
A further concern: Organic producers disavow genetic modification, which can be used to improve a crop's nutritional content, enhance resistance to pests and diminish its need for water. A genetically modified tomato developed at the University of Exeter, for example, contains nearly 80 times the antioxidants of conventional tomatoes. Healthier, yes - but it can't be called organic.
一个更进一步的问题是：有机食品的生产者抗拒对作物进行基因改造，而这种方法能改进作物的营养成份、提高对病虫害的抵抗力，并能减少其对水的需求。比方说，英国埃克塞特大学(University of Exeter)研发出的一种转基因西红柿所含有的抗氧化剂，是传统西红柿的近80倍。这种作物当然更健康——但却称不上是“有机”食品。
FARMED SALMON Most of the salmon consumed nowadays is farmed. Even if we all could afford the wild variety, there's simply not enough of it to satisfy the current demand for this heart-healthy fish.
养殖三文鱼 现在我们购买的大部分三文鱼都是人工养殖的。就算我们买得起野生三文鱼，它的供应量也无法满足人们对这种对心脏有益的鱼类的需求。
There may be legitimate concerns about possible pollutants in farmed salmon, but one concern that is a nonissue involves that "salmon" color, produced by adding astaxanthin to fish feed. This commercially made pigment is an antioxidant found naturally in algae, and it is carried up the food chain to give wild salmon its color, too.
关于养殖三文鱼中存在可能的污染物，或许存在些合情合理的顾虑，不过其中一种顾虑纯属杞人忧天，那就是担心为了产生漂亮的“三文鱼”色，而往鱼食里添加虾青素。这种商业化生产的色素是一种抗氧化剂，在自然界的海藻中能找到，正是因为野生三文鱼的食物链中存在海藻，所以它有了现在的颜色。
NUTS Growing up, I was often warned to avoid nuts because they're "fattening." Now I know better. Research has shown that people who regularly eat nuts and nut butters in normal amounts weigh less, on average, than nut avoiders.
坚果 在我小时候，常有人警告我别吃坚果，因为它们会“让人发胖”。现在我要了解得更清楚了。研究显示，平均而言，有规律地食用正常量坚果和果仁酱的人，比不吃坚果类食品的人体重更轻。
The fat in nuts is unsaturated and heart-healthy. Nuts are also good sources of protein, antioxidants, vitamins, minerals and fiber, and can help keep between-meal hunger at bay. The same is true of avocados - just don't go overboard.
坚果中含有的脂肪是不饱和脂肪、有益健康。坚果同时也是蛋白质、抗氧化剂、维生素、矿物质和纤维的良好来源，并能抵御两餐之间的饥饿感。吃牛油果（即鳄梨）同样如此——前提时别一个劲猛吃。