SOWETO, South Africa — For a day, the world came to Nelson Mandela’s adopted hometown. There were celebrities: Bono, Naomi Campbell, Charlize Theron. There were kings-in-waiting: Crown Prince Haakon of Norway and Crown Prince Felipe of Spain. There were more presidents and prime ministers than at just about any other setting outside a United Nations General Assembly.
南非索韦托——这一天，全世界都来到了纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的第二故乡。其中既有社会名流，比如博诺(Bono)、娜奥米·坎贝尔(Naomi Campbell)和查理兹·塞隆(Charlize Theron)，也有王储，比如挪威王储哈康(Crown Prince Haakon)和西班牙王储菲利浦(Crown Prince Felipe of Spain)。除联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的会场，来到这里的各国总统和总理比其他任何场合都要多。
It was a singular gathering to celebrate a life virtually unmatched in modern times, and the assemblage of allies and adversaries reflected Mr. Mandela’s enduring legacy of forgiveness and reconciliation, as well the messy and sometimes clashing global allegiances of his party, the African National Congress.
此次聚会是为了悼念现代社会一个独一无二的生命，盟友和对手的聚集体现了曼德拉宽容与和解的精神，他的党派非洲人国民大会党（African National Congress，简称ANC）在全球赢得的时或相互冲突的混乱支持也体现了这种精神。
President Obama gave a eulogy that stirred the crowd, only to be followed later by President Raúl Castro of Cuba. The two even shared an unexpected handshake. Old friends met happily in the V.I.P area, while old enemies, like former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, avoided each other.
奥巴马总统的悼词让人群十分激动，随后致词的却是古巴主席劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)。他俩甚至还出人意料地握了手。老朋友们愉快地在VIP区域碰面，而像英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)和津巴布韦总统罗伯特·穆加贝(Robert Mugabe)这样的宿敌则刻意回避彼此。
“It took a man like Madiba to free not just the prisoner, but the jailer as well; to show that you must trust others so that they may trust you; to teach that reconciliation is not a matter of ignoring a cruel past, but a means of confronting it with inclusion and generosity and truth,” Mr. Obama said in his remarks, referring to Mr. Mandela by his clan name. “He changed laws, but he also changed hearts.”
“只有像马迪巴(Madiba)这样的人，才能在让囚犯获得自由的同时让狱卒获得自由，才能表明你必须用信任换取别人的信任，才能教会我们，和解不是一种漠视残酷过去的做法，而是一种用包容、气量和真理来面对残酷过去的方式，”奥巴马在他的讲话中说，“马迪巴”是曼德拉的家族昵称。“他改变了法律，还改变了人心。”
Sheets of driving rain swept across this former segregated township — an urban sprawl within sight of the glittery high rises of downtown Johannesburg — keeping many mourners away from the vast soccer stadium where Mr. Mandela made his last public appearance, during the World Cup in 2010. Still, tens of thousands of other South Africans, swathed in their national colors, came out to celebrate Mr. Mandela, who died on Thursday at the age of 95, some stomping their feet as protesters did during the movement that led to his release from prison in 1990 after 27 years of incarceration.
瓢泼大雨掠过这座曾经被隔离的小镇——从约翰内斯堡市中心那些闪闪发光的高楼就可以看到这片城市扩张区——导致许多悼念者没能来到这个巨大的体育场。2010年世界杯期间，曼德拉在这里最后一次公开露面。然而，还是有数万名南非人披着国旗，到这里来悼念曼德拉。曼德拉于周四去世，享年95岁。有些悼念者还跺起脚来，就像1990年促使曼德拉获释的那场运动中的抗议者那样。当时，他已被监禁了27年。
“Even heaven is crying,” one woman in the crowd declared as the deluge continued. “We have lost an angel.”
“连天堂都在哭泣，”暴雨下个不停，人群中的一名女子说道，“我们失去了一位天使。”
The day began with a joyful noise.
这一天是在欢快的嘈杂声中开始的。
Nothando Dube, 31, left her home in Soweto at dawn, joining a throng to sing old songs of the struggle against apartheid, waiting for the memorial to the man who brought democracy to South Africa and became its first black president. It was a moment for a country that at times still seems deeply divided by race, class, religion and tribe to join together once again as the Rainbow Nation of Mr. Mandela’s dreams.
31岁的诺特汉多·杜贝(Nothando Dube)于黎明时分离开自己位于索韦托的家，加入了唱着对抗种族隔离的老歌的人群，等待着这场纪念仪式，纪念的是那位把民主带到南非，并成为南非首位黑人总统的人物。这个国家至今仍不时显露存在种族、阶层、宗教和部落深刻分歧的迹象，如今又到了团结起来，成为曼德拉梦想中的“彩虹之国”的时刻。
“It feels different when you sing it now as a free young person,” said Ms. Dube, wearing an A.N.C. beret. “You try to reach that feeling, that emotion they were feeling when they sang that song in prison.”
“作为自由的年轻人，我们唱这首歌的感觉和以前有所不同，”带着ANC贝雷帽的杜贝说。“我们试图寻找那种感觉，那种他们在监牢里唱这首歌时的感觉。”
But a few hours later, her mood had darkened. As jeers cascaded from the crowd aimed at South Africa’s current president, Jacob Zuma, Ms. Dube was one of many rolling their arms in the gesture known the world over as a call to substitute a failing player in a soccer match. It was an unmistakable message to Mr. Zuma, who faces corruption charges and deep worries about his governing of the country.
但几小时后，她的心情就低沉了下来。人群对南非现任总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)发出阵阵嘲讽时，杜贝和其他许多人一起，晃动胳膊做出了一个手势。全世界都知道，这是足球比赛中要求换下差劲球员的手势。这个明确无误的讯息是传递给祖马的。祖马面临着腐败指控，他对这个国家的治理也引起了深深的忧虑。
“You don’t want to be airing your laundry in front of everybody, but people wanted to send a message,” she said. “The man on the street feels there’s a lot that should have been done by now to fix the country.”
“我们并不想在众人面前自暴家丑，但人们希望传达一个讯息，”她说，“街上的人觉得，到现在，有助于整顿这个国家的许多工作应该已经完成了才对。”
Like many around the world, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, praised Mr. Mandela’s ability to look beyond past wrongs, bridge divisions and build a new nation, inspiring his own country and many others far beyond its borders.
和全世界的许多人一样，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)赞扬了曼德拉既往不究、弥合分歧、建设新国家的能力。曼德拉不光鼓舞了自己的国家，还鼓舞了其他许多遥远的国度。
“He showed the awesome power of forgiveness — and of connecting people with each other and with the true meaning of peace,” Mr. Ban said in his remarks. “That was his unique gift, and that was the lesson he shared with all humankind. He has done it again. Look around this stadium and this stage. We see leaders representing many points of view, and people from all walks of life. All here, all united.”
“他展现了宽恕的巨大力量，以及使人们彼此连接，并与和平的真义相连接的巨大力量，”潘基文在讲话中说，“这是他独一无二的天赋，是他和全人类分享的教益。他再一次做到了这一点。看看这个体育场和这个讲台四周。我们看到了代表众多观点的领导人，看到了来自各个阶层的人们。所有人都聚集在这里，团结在一起。”
At times, the proceedings seemed to be more about geopolitics than about national mourning. China, a vital trade partner for South Africa, sent its vice president, Li Yuanchao, instead of its president or another official more recognizable abroad. He was nonetheless granted a prime speaking slot as one of only a few foreign leaders who made remarks, though few in the audience seemed to be able to identify him — or most of the other leaders.
有些时候，这场仪式似乎更多是关乎地缘政治，而非国丧。作为南非的重要贸易伙伴，中国派出的是国家副主席李源潮，而不是国家主席，也不是某个在海外知名度更高的官员。尽管如此，他仍然获得了在黄金时间发言的权利。只有少数几名外国领导人发言致辞，李源潮便是其中之一，尽管观众中似乎没什么人能认出他，大部分别国领导人也不能。
But for many who streamed into the stadium, it was a chance to say goodbye to a beloved figure of whom everyone seemed to have a personal memory.
但是，对涌入体育场的许多人来说，这是个跟一位深受爱戴的人道别的机会。所有人似乎都有和一段关于曼德拉的私人记忆。
Joyce Simelane and Meisie Mello traveled together to a stadium in Soweto nearly a quarter-century ago. It was 1990, and the two sisters were filled with excitement and anticipation because they were going to see Mr. Mandela, newly released from prison, speak to the people.
将近四分之一个世纪以前，乔伊丝·西梅拉内(Joyce Simelane)和迈西·梅洛(Meisie Mello)一起来到了索韦托的一座体育场。当时是1990年，姐妹俩满怀兴奋和期待，因为她们即将亲眼见证刚获释不久的曼德拉向人们发表讲话。
“We were overwhelmed to see him there,” said Ms. Simelane, 60. “I grew up learning about the A.N.C., Mandela, Robben Island.”
“看到他的时候，我们激动得不行，”现已60岁的西梅拉内说，“我是听着ANC、曼德拉和罗本岛(Robben Island)的故事长大的。”
“He changed our lives,” said Ms. Mello, 54.
“他改变了我们的生活，”54岁的梅洛说。
They moved out of the township. Their children could attend mixed schools with white teachers. Because of Mr. Mandela, they said, their lives were entirely different from what they otherwise would have been. Ms. Simelane has hosted students from Alaska, Italy and Brazil. Her daughter has gone to study in Chile, spoken fluent Spanish and worked as a tour guide.
她们搬出了只有黑人居住的城镇。她们的孩子可以去有白人老师的混合学校就读。她们说，因为有了曼德拉，她们的生活才变得截然不同。如今，西梅拉内家里住着来自阿拉斯加、意大利和巴西的学生。她女儿去了智利留学，说一口流利的西班牙语，从事导游工作。
So they rose at 5:30 a.m. and made their way — together again — back to Soweto, to a new, top-of-the-line stadium, but this time with a sadder mission — to bid Mr. Mandela goodbye.
因此，她们早上5点30就起了床——这一次又是两人一起——踏上返回索韦托的旅途，前往这里的一座顶尖的新体育场。不过，这次她们是来做一件比较伤心的事情：和曼德拉道别。
“We’re going to miss him,” Ms. Simelane said. “Today we feel he needs to rest. He’s old. He went through so much.”
“我们会想念他的，”西梅拉内说，“今天，我们觉得他需要休息了。他老了，经历的磨难也太多了。”