More than 130 female activists from 38 countries pressed the leader of the United Nations on Tuesday to fulfill a goal he declared after assuming the job a decade ago: a permanent peace treaty to end the Korean War.
周二，来自38个国家的130多位女性活动人士敦促联合国领导人实现他十年前上任之后宣布的一个目标：达成一项永久性的和平协议，结束朝鲜半岛战争。
In an open letter to Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, a former foreign minister of South Korea whose tenure will expire at the end of the year, the women implored him to “lead the process of bringing formal closure to the longest standing war before you leave your post at the United Nations.”
在写给联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)的一封公开信中，这些女性恳求他“在离开联合国的职位之前，领导正式结束这场仍在进行的最漫长战争的进程”。曾任韩国外长的潘基文的任期将于今年年底结束。
The letter was co-sponsored by Women Cross DMZ, a group that organized a peaceful walk last year across the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea, and the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom, a prominent antiwar group that is more than 100 years old.
该信由“女性穿越非军事区”(Women Cross DMZ)和国际女性和平自由联盟(Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom)共同发起。前者去年组织了一次穿越隔开朝韩非军事区的和平行走活动，后者则是一个有100多年历史的著名反战组织。
Mr. Ban, rumored to be contemplating a run to be president of South Korea after he leaves the United Nations, has often expressed a wish to reduce tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
潘基文经常表示希望缓和朝鲜半岛上的紧张局势。有传闻称，他正考虑在离开联合国后竞选韩国总统。
Those tensions have escalated under Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, who has conducted missile and nuclear weapons tests in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions that have left the country deeply isolated.
朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)上台后，朝鲜半岛紧张局势升级。金正恩不顾让朝鲜深陷孤立的联合国安理会决议，多次进行导弹和核武器试验。
Despite hopes that Mr. Ban, 72, might visit North Korea before he leaves the United Nations, he said recently that such a trip was highly unlikely.
尽管有人认为现年72岁的潘基文大概会在离开联合国之前访问朝鲜，但他最近表示，这种访问的可能性非常小。
Mr. Ban, born during the Japanese occupation of the Korean Peninsula, was 9 years old when an armistice halted the Korean War in 1953.
潘基文出生在日本占领朝鲜半岛时期。1953年，潘基文9岁时，一份休战协议让朝鲜战争暂时停止。
The armistice, not a formal peace treaty, has left the war’s principal antagonists in a technical state of war for 63 years.
这份休战协议并非正式的和平协议，因此严格来说，63年来主要交战方一直处于战争状态。
“This war must end,” the women’s letter to Mr. Ban stated.
“这场战争必须结束，”这些女性在写给潘基文的信中说。
It reminded him of a pledge he made in a 2007 speech: “Beyond a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue with North Korea, we should aim to establish a peace mechanism through transition from armistice to a permanent peace treaty.”
信中提醒他曾在2007年的一次讲话中许下承诺：“除和平解决朝鲜核问题外，我们应致力于通过从休战协议变成一份永久性的和平协议，建立一个和平机制。”
Mindful of Mr. Ban’s possible presidential aspirations, the letter said he should “aim to conclude this peace process” by 2018, the 70th anniversary of the Korean Peninsula’s division into two states.
考虑到潘基文可能有当总统的志向，公开信称他应该“致力于在2018年，也就是朝鲜半岛分裂70周年之前，结束这个和平进程”。
Christine Ahn, the international coordinator of Women Cross DMZ, said in an email that the letter was sent on Tuesday, the last day of the annual General Assembly session in New York, “in the hopes of encouraging Mr. Ban to uphold this promise long after he leaves the U.N.”
“女性穿越非军事区”的国际协调人克里斯婷·安(Christine Ahn)在一封电子邮件中表示，公开信是周二——在纽约举行的年度联合国大会的最后一天——寄出的，“旨在敦促潘基文在离开联合国之后的仍信守这个承诺。”
The signers of the letter included a number of prominent women in education, the arts and activism on disarmament issues.
在公开信上签名的人中，有教育界和艺术界的众多著名女性，以及关注裁军问题的女性活动人士。
They included the filmmaker Abigail Disney, the playwright Eve Ensler, the feminist leader Gloria Steinem and the Nobel Prize laureate Leymah Gbowee.
她们包括电影人阿比盖尔·迪士尼(Abigail Disney)、编剧伊芙·恩斯勒(Eve Ensler)、女权主义领袖格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)和诺贝尔奖获得者莱伊曼·古博薇(Leymah Gbowee)。