In a polarized region and a complicated world, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria presents a unifying threat to a broad array of countries, including the United States. What’s needed to confront its nihilistic vision and genocidal agenda is a global coalition using political, humanitarian, economic, law enforcement and intelligence tools to support military force.
在一个呈两极化的区域中，以及一个复杂的世界上，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（简称ISIS）对一大批国家，包括美国，构成统一的威胁。为了对抗其虚无主义的幻想和种族灭绝的议程，需要一种用政治、人道、经济、执法和情报工具来支持军事力量的全球联盟。
In addition to its beheadings, crucifixions and other acts of sheer evil, which have killed thousands of innocents in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon, including Sunni Muslims whose faith it purports to represent, ISIS (which the United States government calls ISIL, or the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant) poses a threat well beyond the region.
除了斩首，ISIS（美国政府称之为ISIL：伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国的简称）还把人钉在十字架上，或用其他十足邪恶的手段，在叙利亚、伊拉克和黎巴嫩杀害了数千名无辜者，包括其声称代表的逊尼派穆斯林信徒，ISIS构成的威胁远远超出该地区。
ISIS has its origins in what was once known as Al Qaeda in Iraq, which has over a decade of experience in extremist violence. The group has amassed a hardened fighting force of committed jihadists with global ambitions, exploiting the conflict in Syria and sectarian tensions in Iraq. Its leaders have repeatedly threatened the United States, and in May an ISIS-associated terrorist shot and killed three people at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. (A fourth victim died 13 days later.) ISIS’ cadre of foreign fighters are a rising threat not just in the region, but anywhere they could manage to travel undetected — including to America.
ISIS起源于曾一度以伊拉克基地组织(Al Qaeda in Iraq)为名的团伙，该组织有十年以上的极端主义暴力经验。这个团伙聚集了一支由具有全球野心的坚定圣战者组成的强大作战力量，利用了叙利亚内战和伊拉克教派冲突的矛盾。其领导人曾多次威胁美国，今年5月，一个与ISIS有关的恐怖分子在布鲁塞尔的犹太博物馆开枪打死3人。（第四位受害者于13天后死亡。）加入ISIS的外国武装分子不仅对该地区，而且对任何他们能不被发现地设法前往的地方、包括美国在内，是一种不断增长的威胁。
There is evidence that these extremists, if left unchecked, will not be satisfied at stopping with Syria and Iraq. They are larger and better funded in this new incarnation, using pirated oil, kidnapping and extortion to finance operations in Syria and Iraq. They are equipped with sophisticated heavy weapons looted from the battlefield. They have already demonstrated the ability to seize and hold more territory than any other terrorist organization, in a strategic region that borders Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey and is perilously close to Israel.
有证据表明，这些极端分子，如果任其发展，将不会满足于将行动局限在叙利亚和伊拉克。他们的新化身更强大，有更多的资金，他们用偷来的石油、靠绑架勒索获得支持其在叙利亚和伊拉克的军事行动的资金。他们配备着从战场上抢来的先进重型武器。他们在毗邻约旦、黎巴嫩和土耳其，并危险地接近以色列的战略地区，表现出比其他任何恐怖组织都能占据和巩固更多地盘的能力。
ISIS fighters have exhibited repulsive savagery and cruelty. Even as they butcher Shiite Muslims and Christians in their effort to touch off a broader ethnic and sectarian conflict, they pursue a calculated strategy of killing fellow Sunni Muslims to gain and hold territory. The beheading of an American journalist, James Foley, has shocked the conscience of the world.
ISIS的武装分子已展示出极其野蛮和残酷的一面。就在他们屠杀什叶派穆斯林和基督徒、以努力触发更广泛的民族和宗派冲突的同时，他们奉行一个屠杀同为逊尼派的穆斯林、以巩固地盘的精心策划的战略。美国记者詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)被斩首另世界的良知震惊。
With a united response led by the United States and the broadest possible coalition of nations, the cancer of ISIS will not be allowed to spread to other countries. The world can confront this scourge, and ultimately defeat it. ISIS is odious, but not omnipotent. We have proof already in northern Iraq, where United States airstrikes have shifted the momentum of the fight, providing space for Iraqi and Kurdish forces to go on the offensive. With our support, Iraqi leaders are coming together to form a new, inclusive government that is essential to isolating ISIS and securing the support of all of Iraq’s communities.
有一个以美国为主、并来自最广泛国家的联盟的统一响应，将阻止ISIS的毒瘤扩散到其他国家。世界可以对抗这个祸害，并最终战胜它。ISIS可憎，但并不万能。我们在伊拉克北部对此已有证明，美国对那里的空袭已扭转了战斗的势头，为伊拉克和库尔德人的力量转向进攻提供了空隙。在我们的支持下，伊拉克领导人正团结起来，组建一个包容性的新政府，这是确保得到伊拉克所有社区的支持、从而孤立ISIS所必需的。
Airstrikes alone won’t defeat this enemy. A much fuller response is demanded from the world. We need to support Iraqi forces and the moderate Syrian opposition, who are facing ISIS on the front lines. We need to disrupt and degrade ISIS’ capabilities and counter its extremist message in the media. And we need to strengthen our own defenses and cooperation in protecting our people.
仅靠空中袭击不能打败这个敌人。需要来自世界的一种更全面的响应。我们需要支持伊拉克军队以及叙利亚反对派中的温和派，后者处在面对ISIS的第一线上。我们需要捣毁和削弱ISIS的能力，并在媒体上反驳其极端主义信息。我们需要加强在保护我们的人民方面的防卫与合作。
Next week, on the sidelines of the NATO summit meeting in Wales, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and I will meet with our counterparts from our European allies. The goal is to enlist the broadest possible assistance. Following the meeting, Mr. Hagel and I plan to travel to the Middle East to develop more support for the coalition among the countries that are most directly threatened.
下周，在威尔士的北约首脑会议期间，我和国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)将与来自欧洲盟国的同行见面。目标是争取尽可能广泛的支持。会后，哈格尔和我计划前往中东，在受到最直接威胁到国家中扩展对联盟的支持。
The United States will hold the presidency of the United Nations Security Council in September, and we will use that opportunity to continue to build a broad coalition and highlight the danger posed by foreign terrorist fighters, including those who have joined ISIS. During the General Assembly session, President Obama will lead a summit meeting of the Security Council to put forward a plan to deal with this collective threat.
美国将在九月担任联合国安理会的轮值主席国，我们将利用这个机会为建立一个广泛联盟继续努力，尤其要强调外国恐怖主义武装分子、包括那些加入了ISIS的人所带来的危险。在联合国大会期间，美国总统奥巴马将主持一个安理会首脑会议，以提出一项应对这一共同威胁的计划。
In this battle, there is a role for almost every country. Some will provide military assistance, direct and indirect. Some will provide desperately needed humanitarian assistance for the millions who have been displaced and victimized across the region. Others will help restore not just shattered economies but broken trust among neighbors. This effort is underway in Iraq, where other countries have joined us in providing humanitarian aid, military assistance and support for an inclusive government.
几乎每个国家都能在这场战斗中起作用。有些国家将提供直接和间接的军事援助。有些将为该地区流离失所的上百万受害者提供急需的人道主义援助。还有些将不仅帮助恢复遭到破坏的经济，也将帮助恢复邻居之间破碎的信任。这些努力正在伊拉克展开，其他国家已在那里与我们一起，提供人道主义救援，军事援助，以及为一个具有包容性的政府提供支持。
Already our efforts have brought dozens of nations to this cause. Certainly there are different interests at play. But no decent country can support the horrors perpetrated by ISIS, and no civilized country should shirk its responsibility to help stamp out this disease.
我们的努力已经把数十个国家带到这个事业中来。诚然，不同的国家有各自的利益。但是，任何正派的国家都不会支持ISIS制造的恐怖，任何文明的国家都不应该推卸其帮助铲除这个毒瘤的责任。