GENEVA — The United States, Russia, Ukraine and the European Union reached an agreement on Thursday evening that called for armed pro-Russian bands in eastern Ukraine to surrender the government buildings they have seized and that outlined other steps to defuse a crisis that has rattled the international community.
日内瓦——美国、俄罗斯、乌克兰和欧盟本周四晚上达成协议，敦促乌克兰东部的亲俄武装分子交出他们占领的政府大楼；协议还包含其他一些措施，旨在化解这场令国际社会震动不安的危机。
The diplomatic accord, while limited in scope, represented the first time Russia and Ukraine had found common ground since protests toppled a pro-Moscow government in Kiev, leading the Kremlin to annex the Crimean Peninsula and threaten other parts of Ukraine with 40,000 troops on its border. The deal came hours after Ukrainian security forces killed three pro-Russian activists in a firefight.
这项外交协议虽然涉及的范围有限，但却代表着自从抗议者推翻亲俄的基辅政府以来，俄罗斯和乌克兰第一次找到了共同点。亲俄的基辅政府被推翻后，克里姆林宫吞并了克里米亚半岛，并在边境集结4万兵力，令乌克兰其他领土备受威胁。就在该协议公布的数小时之前，乌克兰安全部队在交火中击毙了三名亲俄活动者。
But neither President Obama in Washington nor President Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow signaled that the crisis over Ukraine was over. During a long, televised question-and-answer session before the agreement was announced, Mr. Putin asserted historic claims over Ukrainian territory and the right to send in Russian troops.
然而，无论是在华盛顿的奥巴马，还是在莫斯科的普京，都没有说乌克兰危机已经结束的意思。在该协议宣布之前，俄罗斯电视台直播了一个持续时间较长的问答节目，普京在节目中讲到乌克兰领土曾经属于俄罗斯，还说俄罗斯有权派遣军队到乌克兰。
Speaking after the agreement was announced, Mr. Obama sounded a skeptical note, saying it offered “a glimmer of hope,” but “we’re not going to count on it,” and adding that the United States would take more punitive action if Russia did not abide by its terms.
奥巴马在该协议公布后发表讲话，言词间显得怀有疑心，他说该协议提供了“一线希望”，但“我们不会指望它”，还说如果俄罗斯违背了这个协议的条款，美国将采取更多的惩罚性措施。
“My hope is that we actually do see follow-through over the next several days,” Mr. Obama told reporters at the White House, “but I don’t think, given past performance, that we can count on that, and we have to be prepared to potentially respond to what continue to be efforts of interference by the Russians in eastern and southern Ukraine.”
“希望在接下来的几天里，我们确实能看到事态向好的方面发展，”奥巴马在白宫跟记者说，“但是从以往的事情来看，我觉得我们不能有那样的指望，俄罗斯可能继续在乌克兰东部和南部采取干涉行动，我们必须做好予以回应的准备。”
Mr. Obama did not outline what those measures might be, but aides said that the White House had assembled a list of more Russian figures and institutions to sanction if Russia did not pull back and the situation in Ukraine continued to worsen. The president does not plan to impose more stringent measures against whole sectors of the Russian economy unless Moscow sends in troops or otherwise takes more drastic steps, aides said, a recognition of resistance in Europe, which is more tied economically to Russia.
奥巴马没有谈到这些措施可能是什么，但助手们说，白宫已把更多的俄罗斯人士和机构列入了一张名单，如果俄罗斯不撤退，乌克兰局势继续恶化，美国就要对这些人进行制裁。奥巴马不打算对俄罗斯整体经济采取更严厉的制裁措施，除非莫斯科发兵乌克兰，或者有其他轻举妄动，助手们说，这是由于意识到欧洲方面的阻力，欧洲跟俄罗斯在经济上有更深的羁绊。
Hoping to coordinate a future response with European leaders, Mr. Obama spoke by telephone with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. called Slovakia’s prime minister for the second time in recent days to press him to help reverse the flow of a natural gas pipeline to provide Ukraine with energy if it is cut off by Russia.
对于今后要做出怎样反应，奥巴马希望能与欧洲领导人进行协调，为此他跟德国总理默克尔和英国首相卡梅伦通了电话。副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)则跟斯洛伐克总理通了电话，敦促他将管道天然气的输送转向，万一俄罗斯切断对乌克兰的天然气供应，欧洲就可以通过斯洛伐克给乌克兰输送能源。这是拜登在最近几天内第二次给斯洛伐克总理打电话。
Tension on the ground continued to mount in the hours before the Geneva agreement was announced. Pro-Russian protesters tried to storm a Ukrainian base in the eastern city of Mariupol, prompting a firefight that left three of the activists dead, 13 wounded and 63 captured, according to Ukraine’s interim interior minister. In Donetsk, where pro-Russian militants have taken over a government building, fliers appeared ordering Jews to register with authorities.
在这项日内瓦协议公布之前数小时，乌克兰的紧张局势仍在继续发酵。乌克兰的临时内政部长表示，在东部城市马里乌波尔，亲俄抗议者试图冲进一个乌克兰基地，引发了交火，导致3名活动者丧生，13人受伤，63人被捕。在顿涅茨克，亲俄武装分子占领了一座政府大楼，命令犹太人到有关当局进行登记的传单也已出现。
And in the hours after the accord, brokered in part by Secretary of State John Kerry and Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia, militants occupying the government building in the name of the newly declared and wholly unrecognized People’s Republic of Donetsk said that they would not be bound by anything Russia had agreed to.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)参与了这项协议的谈判。协议公布几小时后，以“顿涅茨克人民共和国”名义占领政府大楼的武装分子表示，俄罗斯接受的任何条款对自己都没有约束力。新近声称成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国完全没有得到国际承认。
Roman Velikodny, who called himself commandant of the occupied building, said he had no intention of asking militants to leave until after a referendum that would allow residents of the region to choose autonomy from Kiev. “Before they let people openly express their opinions on the future of this land, we won’t leave the building,” he said. “There will be no handing over of weapons and buildings before people express their views.”
罗曼·维利科迪(Roman Velikodny)自称是被占领大楼的指挥官，他说，他无意要求武装分子离开，除非进行全民公投，让该地区的居民选择不听命于基辅，获得自治权。“在他们让民众公开表达对这片土地未来何去何从的看法之前，我们不会离开这座大楼，“他说。“交出武器和大楼是不可能的，除非人们可以表达自己的意见。”
Vasili Domashev, who described himself as an aide to the commandant, said the armed men would not leave because they did not trust the Kiev government. “Lavrov and Kerry decided, but who are they to us?” he said as a guard sat beside him, tapping the flat side of a samurai sword against his boot. “We are the Donetsk Republic. We have people who make their own decisions.”
瓦西里·德玛舍夫(Vasili Domashev)自称是指挥官的助手，他说武装人员不会离开，因为他们不信任基辅政府。“拉夫罗夫和克里做出了决定，但对我们来说，他们算什么人呢？”他说。一个护卫坐在他身旁，用一把武士刀的侧面拍自己的靴子。“我们是顿涅茨克共和国。我们的人民决定自己的事情。”
The Geneva agreement — hammered out during six hours of talks between Mr. Kerry, Mr. Lavrov, Andrii Deshchytsia, the interim Ukrainian foreign minister, and Catherine Ashton, the foreign policy chief for the European Union — called on all sides in Ukraine to refrain from violence or provocative behavior and rejected all forms of intolerance, including anti-Semitism.
经过长达6小时的会谈，克里、拉夫罗夫、乌克兰临时外长德谢茨亚(Andrii Deshchytsia)、欧盟外交政策负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)在日内瓦敲定了这项协议。该协议呼吁乌克兰所有​​各方避免采取暴力或挑衅行为，并拒绝一切形式的不容忍做法，包括反犹活动。
“All illegal armed groups must be disarmed,” the joint statement said. “All illegally seized buildings must be returned to legitimate owners; all illegally occupied streets, squares and other public places in Ukrainian cities and towns must be vacated.”
“所有非法武装团体必须解除武装，”这份联合声明说。“必须把所有非法占据的建筑物归还给合法所有者；必须退出在乌克兰各处城镇非法占用的所有街道、广场等公共场所。”
In exchange, the interim Ukrainian government agreed to grant amnesty to protesters who leave the government buildings they have occupied and give up their arms, unless they are suspected of murder or other capital crimes. The Kiev government would also ensure that constitutional revisions involve “outreach to all of Ukraine’s regions and political constituencies,” a reference to Russian speakers in the eastern part of the country.
作为交换，临时乌克兰政府同意对离开被占领政府大楼、放弃武器的示威者予以特赦，除非他们涉嫌谋杀或其他死罪。基辅政府还要确保在修宪时照顾到“乌克兰所有地区和政治团体”的利益，这是指讲俄语的东部地区。
But the agreement was as notable for what it did not address as for what it did. It did not require Russia to remove its troops from the border, nor did it commit Moscow to hold direct talks with Ukrainian officials, two of Mr. Obama’s demands. Moreover, the agreement made no mention of Russia’s seizure and annexation of Crimea, an action deemed unacceptable by the United States and Europe and yet unlikely to be reversed, at least in the foreseeable future, Western officials have acknowledged privately.
但是跟该协议提及的事情同样显眼的，是它没有提及的一些事情。比如它并未包含奥巴马的两个要求：俄罗斯从边境撤回军队，莫斯科跟乌克兰官员进行直接会谈。此外，该协议完全没有提及俄罗斯对克里米亚的占领和吞并，此事在美国和欧洲看来是不可接受的，但是西方官员曾私下承认，这件事已经不太可能逆转，至少在可预见的将来是这样。
“None of us leave here with the sense that the job is done,” Mr. Kerry said afterward. “We do not envision this as the full measure of de-escalation.”
“离开日内瓦时，每个人都觉得事情尚未了结，”克里后来说。“我们没有把这看成是防止事态升级的全部措施。”
But he called the measures an important first step to avert “a complete and total implosion” in eastern Ukraine and said they could lead to more far-reaching moves to resolve the conflict.
但他表示，这些措施迈出重要的第一步，有望避免乌克兰东部“彻底乱套”，它们可能会催生更重要的措施，以化解这场冲突。