Intrigued by the dubious Zen of running a New York City co-op? You’d better be a fiscally prudent paragon of cooperation and as thick-skinned as a piece of Vuitton luggage, because the only entity New Yorkers seem to distrust and disparage more than co-op boards is the board president him or herself.
对经营一栋纽约合作公寓(co-op)的所谓“禅学”感兴趣？你在自己所住的合作公寓里，最好是个财务上小心谨慎的模范人物；此外，还要有张像路易·威登的行李箱那么厚的脸皮。因为对纽约人而言，比合作公寓的管理委员会(co-op boards)更不可信、更可鄙的存在，似乎就是管委会主席本人了。
Prepare to hear that you are a control freak on an ego trip. Prepare, in a worst-case scenario, to be threatened with bodily harm by a disgruntled neighbor: disgruntlement is commonplace among shareholders sensing something amiss on the home investment front.
你要准备好被人非难成一个追名逐利的控制狂。准备好，在最坏的情况下，你还会遭到心怀不满的邻居以人身攻击相威胁：一旦哪位股东发现自己住宅投资的前景有何损失，发泄不满就成了家常便饭。
During his stint as board president at Plaza 400, a 600-plus unit co-op at 400 East 56th Street, Stephen Chesnoff summoned the police one evening after the irate girlfriend of a shareholder banged on his apartment door and screamed, “I’m going to kill you!”
Plaza 400这栋合作公寓位于东56街44号，包含600多套住宅。斯蒂芬·切斯诺夫(Stephen Chesnoff)曾任其管委会的主席。任职期间，有一天晚上他报了警，那时有位股东的女友怒不可遏地在他家门外一边砸门，一边大叫着：“我要弄死你！”
When you’re board president, said Mr. Chesnoff, who survived the incident by keeping his door locked, “everyone seems to know where you live.”
切斯诺夫始终紧锁家门，这才度过那次难关。他说，一旦你当上管委会主席，“好像每个人都知道了你的住处。”
So install a good lock and plan to hover in the hot seat at interminable board meetings instead of doing something constructive like, say, snoozing in the apartment for which you fork over that hefty monthly maintenance fee. “I get paid in heartbreak and agita,” said Matthew LaPorte, the president of the board at the Doric Apartments in Union City, N.J., “and think of it like this great, or maybe not-so-great, hobby I do several hours a week as opposed to sleeping or working at the job I actually do get paid for.” He was joking, sort of.
所以，你要装一个质量很好的门锁，准备好在没完没了的委员会会议上忍受如坐针毡的煎熬，而不要想着做点什么有建设性的事，比如，在你不得不每月缴纳高额物管费才能居住的公寓里打个盹。“给我发工资，就是要让我活受罪、操碎心的，”新泽西州联合市(Union City)楼盘Doric Apartments的管委会主席马修·拉波特(Matthew LaPorte)说，“我把它看做一种伟大的，又或者没那么伟大的爱好，每周都会花好几个小时来经营它，而不是睡大觉或干点挣工资的正事。”从某种程度上讲，他是在开玩笑。
His father had been the president of two Manhattan co-ops; when informed that his son was about to replicate his footsteps, “he told me I was stupid.” Mr. LaPorte joined the board at the 435-unit co-op in 2009 and became its president last June.
他的父亲曾在曼哈顿的两处合作公寓里担任过管委会主席；得知儿子要步其后尘时，“他跟我说我很傻。”拉波特2009年加入了Doric Apartments管委会，去年6月当上了主席。Doric Apartments这处合作公寓包含435套单元。
His tenure has yielded mixed results: heralded for installing a state-of-the-art gym, yet vilified for raising guest parking fees to $15 from $10 a day. “Even though most residents can’t be bothered to attend meetings,” he said, “they always have time to interrupt me when I’m walking the dog. So twice a day I stop and answer questions or complaints. Every once in a blue moon I get a compliment.”
拉波特在任期中的业绩可谓喜忧参半：一方面因为建了一座设施先进的健身房，赢得了众人喝彩；另一方面因为将停车费从每天10美元（约合人民币61元）涨到了15美元（约合人民币91元），也招致一片骂声。“即使大多数业主都懒得来开会，”他说，“他们总能抽出时间来，在我遛狗的时候把我截住。所以，一天中总有那么两次，我得停下脚步回答问题，或者接受投诉。得到夸奖都是千载难逢的事情了。”
According to Michael Vargas, the chief executive officer of Vanderbilt Appraisal, New York City has 6,800 co-ops, more than half concentrated in Manhattan. Which means that nearly 7,000 city residents, whether motivated by altruism or megalomania, are employing their social skills and fiscal finesse in the woefully — just ask — underappreciated role of co-op board president.
房地产估价公司Vanderbilt Appraisal的首席执行官迈克尔·巴尔加斯(Michael Vargas)表示，纽约市内有6800处合作公寓，其中超过半数集中在曼哈顿。这就意味着，有将近7000名市民正在运用他们的社交才能和理财技巧，担任着合作公寓管委会主席这个——随便打听下就知道——不幸备受忽视的职位，不管他们的动机是出于无私还是自大。
“Of all the fun things I could have done with my time, I wouldn’t say it was fun,” said Terri Feinstein Sasanow, a lawyer for the New York City Law Department who was on her co-op board at 1 Gracie Terrace for a dozen years, the last six as president. “To a certain extent it can be a thankless task.”
“要我说，这并不是什么有趣的活儿。我本来可以空出时间做其它有趣的事，”泰瑞·法因施泰因·萨沙诺(Terri Feinstein Sasanow)是纽约市政府法律部(New York City Law Department) 的律师，过去十二年来，她一直是合作公寓1 Gracie Terrace的管委会成员，并在过去六年里一直担任主席之职。“从某种程度上讲，这是个吃力不讨好的活儿。”
The most incendiary conflicts are often the most picayune. “We had disagreements over the wallpaper in the halls and the fresh flowers in the lobby,” Ms. Sasanow recalled. “There was one lady who sat in the front row at every meeting and complained about the flowers; I thought it was nice that we even had fresh flowers.”
火药味最浓的争端，往往也是最鸡毛蒜皮的。“我们对走廊上贴什么壁纸、大厅里摆什么鲜花存在分歧，”萨沙诺回忆道，“有位女士每次开会都坐在前排，抱怨鲜花不好看；而我觉得我们有鲜花就算不错了。”
Friction among board members is a given. But when manipulative presidents with personal agendas take control — urging a building to soften or toughen its policy on washer/dryers or pets or terrace expansions, for example — what ensues can be even worse.
管委会成员之间难免产生摩擦。不过，如果长袖善舞的主席独自把持了管委会，推行个人色彩浓郁的议程——比如在洗衣烘干两用机、宠物或露台扩建的问题上，力促相关政策的放松或收紧——那么随之而来的，将是更加恶劣的结果。
Aaron Shmulewitz, the head of the co-op/condo practice at Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman, represents more than 250 co-op and condo boards.
律师事务所Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman的亚伦·什穆列维奇(Aaron Shmulewitz)，负责合作/共管公寓相关的法律事务，是250个合作/共管公寓管委会的代理人。
“Unfortunately,” he said, “some board presidents allow the position to go to their heads and behave as if they’ve acquired the rights of a medieval European monarch. Everyone else relies on them to make all the decisions and take all the heat, which leads to a situation where the president starts to think, ‘Hey, I have absolute power and I can do whatever the heck I want.’ ”
“不幸的是，”他说，“有些管委会主席被自己所处的地位冲昏了头脑，表现得就像一位中世纪的欧洲君主。别人凡事都要仰仗他们来拿主意、打圆场，以至于主席大人开始萌生这样的想法：‘嘿，我有绝对的权力，想做什么都可以。’”
Mr. Shmulewitz has worked with enough overweening board presidents to know whereof he speaks. At the annual meeting of an East 69th Street co-op, he stepped in to prevent a fistfight between a president and an aggrieved shareholder. The president of a Park Avenue co-op ordered him to write a letter of complaint to an upstairs neighbor concerning overly noisy urination on nocturnal trips to the bathroom. Another Upper East Side president requested an admonitory letter directed at his neighbors for disturbing his sleep with their rambunctious lovemaking.
像这种自我膨胀的管委会主席，什穆列维奇见多了，他知道自己在说什么。在东69街一栋合作公寓的某次年会上，他插手阻止了一名管委会主席和一名愤懑不平的股东互殴。而公园大道(Park Avenue)一处合作公寓的管委会主席，则命他写一封投诉信给楼上的邻居，抱怨他晚上起夜撒尿的声音太响。另一位来自上东区的管委会主席也要求写一封警告信给邻居，抱怨他们晚上做爱的动静太大，打扰了他睡觉。
“You don’t go to law school to write letters like that,” Mr. Shmulewitz said. “But if the president of the board you work for asks you to do it, if it’s not unethical, you do it.” New York State, he added, has no official code of conduct for co-op and condo boards.
“你上法学院可不是为了学写这种信的，”什穆列维奇说，“但是如果你的管委会主席要求你这么做，而这又不违反职业道德，你就得照做。”他还说，纽约州并没有出台针对合作/共管公寓管委会的官方行为守则。
The Endless Renovation
没完没了的装修
At Plaza 400, it wasn’t the threat of death — delivered through his closed door by a shrieking woman — that prompted Mr. Chesnoff, a semiretired lawyer who is now the board’s president emeritus, to retire from active duty in 2011 after 10 years on the board, 9 as president. It was the building’s epic five-year battle over an approved $3 million renovation of its hallways. The bone of contention wasn’t the cost — not with a $16 million operating budget — but the color of the walls and carpeting and the style of the molding. It was, in short, a war over décor.
切斯诺夫这位半退休的律师在Plaza 400管委会供职十年，其中有九年是担任主席，2011年从主席的任上退休。促使他退休的并不是那晚那名鬼哭狼嚎的女士，在他紧闭的房门外发出的死亡威胁，而是业主们发起的一场长达五年的史诗级拉锯战，导火索是一个已获批的、耗资300万美元（约合人民币1815万元）的走廊装修方案。而争论的焦点也并不是成本——对于拥有1600万美元（约合人民币9681万元）运营预算的管委会来说，这不是问题；焦点在于墙面和地毯的颜色，和装饰条的风格。简而言之，这是一场装潢风格大战。
“The process drove me nuts,” Mr. Chesnoff said, “and caused a schism within the board itself. We renovated two floors in two different styles so the residents could choose their favorite, and after all that, people weren’t happy with either one. Suddenly everyone was a decorator.”
“这个过程把我逼疯了，”切斯诺夫说，“还在委员会内部也造成了分裂。我们把两层楼装修成了不同的风格，这样一来，业主就可以选择他们自己喜欢的。结果业主对两种风格都不满意。突然间，人人都成了装修设计师。”
Mr. Chesnoff and the board hired a decorator who lived at Plaza 400 because they thought it would expedite the renovation, but their strategy backfired. He was told by shareholders that the proposed décor resembled a French bordello, a Las Vegas hotel and the interior of a Holiday Inn. He was also accused of having an affair with the decorator.
切斯诺夫和管委会雇佣了一名居住在Plaza 400的设计师，原以为这样就能加快装修进程，结果事与愿违。股东们告诉他，设计师拟定的装潢方案看起来像个法国妓院，像一家拉斯维加斯酒店，以及假日酒店(Holiday Inn)的内景。还有人指责他与装潢师有染。
“That’s the level of nastiness it got to,” he said.
“事情就是会发展到这么恶心的地步，”他说。
Next up is a redo of the elevators. Not his headache; the new board president is a dentist.
接下来要做的是重装电梯。他不需要为此头疼了；新任的管委会主席是个牙医。
Barefoot in the Gym
在健身房里打赤脚
Stephen Vernon, an accountant at A.I.G., is in his third year as president of the board at the Nagel Apartments Corporation, a 111-unit, three-building co-op in Washington Heights where he and his wife, Terri, own a two-bedroom apartment.
斯蒂芬·弗农(Stephen Vernon)是美国国际集团(A.I.G.)的一名会计师，他在合作公寓Nagel Apartments Corporation担任了两年管委会主席，今年是第三年。这处公寓位于华盛顿高地(Washington Heights)，包含111个住宅单元。他和妻子泰瑞拥有其中一套两居室的公寓。
“I thought I could be helpful,” he said, “and since we don’t have kids, I had the extra time to put in. But I learned pretty fast that if you don’t do the work yourself, it’s not going to get done.”
“我本以为自己能协助委员会的工作，”他说，“而且我们没有孩子，我有多余的时间可以投入。但我很快就发现，如果你本人不亲力亲为，事情就干不成。”
All three buildings now have new roofs with a 20-year warranty: “I expect not to hear a word of complaint about drips for 20 years,” Mr. Vernon said. “Even if no one really appreciates the work you put in, the absence of complaints is also kind of loud.”
现在，所有三栋楼都安上了20年保修期的新屋顶。“我希望20年内都不会听到有人投诉屋顶滴水了，”弗农说，“即使没有人真的对你所做的事情感恩戴德，零投诉也算是一种盛赞了。”
The latest set-to concerned a resident who used the gym’s exercise equipment while barefoot: “We had two issues before the board, the barefoot gym guy and an applicant who wanted to purchase through an L.L.C.,” he said. “Guess which one got the most shareholder feedback.”
最近一次擦枪走火的起因是，有一名业主赤脚使用健身房里的器材：“管委会当时正待处理的事情有两件，一是有人在健身房打赤脚；二是一名申请购房者想以一家有限责任公司(L.L.C.)的名义购房，”他说，“猜猜股东们反馈最多的是哪件？”
The co-op now prohibits bare feet in the gym.
此处公寓楼目前已禁止在健身房里打赤脚了。
Sentenced to a Life Term
被判终身任期
Stuart M. Saft, a partner at Holland & Knight and the chairman of the New York Council of Cooperatives and Condominiums, dipped his toe into co-op politics in 1977 after his rent rose to $490 from $450. “With the city teetering on bankruptcy,” he said, “we found a two-bedroom two-bath co-op with a terrace for $70,000 at 935 Park Avenue, and somehow ended up buying the apartment from the president of the board.”
斯图尔特·M·萨福特(Stuart M. Saft)是律师事务所Holland & Knight的合伙人，也是纽约合作公寓与共管公寓委员会(New York Council of Cooperatives and Condominiums)的主席，1977年，当他的租金从450美元（其时约合人民币778.5元）涨到490美元（其时约合人民币847.7元）时，他第一次领教了合作公寓的管委会政治。“那时纽约市正在破产的边缘挣扎，”他说，“我们在公园大道935号找到一套两室两卫、带露台的合作公寓，售价7万美元（其时约合人民币12万元）。后来我们设法从管委会主席那里买下了这套房子。”
Six months later, after the managing agent presented the board with bills totaling $90,000 and there was no cash to cover them, the entire board resigned “in embarrassment,” Mr. Saft said. “I found myself on the new board thinking, ‘Where the heck are we going to find $90,000?’ And since I was a real estate lawyer, they made me president even though I didn’t know anything about co-ops, which was a fitting punishment.”
6个月后，物业经理向管委会提交了总额9万美元（其时约合人民币15.6万元）的账单，却没有现金来支付，弄得整个管委会“尴尬之下”集体辞职了，萨福特说，“结果我就莫名其妙地进入了新的管委会班子，面前摆着一个问题，‘我们上哪去找这90000美元？’因为我是房地产律师，他们就选我当了主席，虽然我对合作公寓一点也不了解。这也算一种恰当的惩罚吧。”
By selling an empty suite of medical offices on the first floor, Mr. Saft and his board were able not only to cover the $90,000 budget gaffe but also to update the lobby and fix the roof.
萨福特和他的管委会卖掉了一楼那套作为诊疗室的空套间，不仅填补了9万美元的预算缺口，还有多余的钱可以装修大厅、修葺屋顶。
“I was delighted with myself,” he recalled, “and at my first annual meeting six months later, I figured shareholders would be cheering me like Caesar returning to Rome.”
“我对自己很满意，”他回忆道，“我料想六个月后，当我召开第一次年度会议时，自己会像重回罗马的凯撒一样，接受股东们的喝彩。”
But just as he called the meeting to order, an elderly resident interrupted him and demanded to know why the interior courtyard was so dirty. “I was at a complete loss,” he said. “I didn’t even know our building had a courtyard.”
但是，就在他宣布开会的时候，一名更年长的业主插嘴质问他，为什么楼内的庭院那么脏。“我完全懵了，”他说，“我甚至都不知道公寓楼里还有个院子。”
After six years, the Safts moved to a larger co-op at 1040 Park, a building that still harbored animosity traceable to a 20-year-old feud over a $60,000 redecoration of the lobby.
六年后，萨福特一家搬进1040 Park这栋大楼中一套面积更大的合作公寓。早在20年前，此楼的业主们因为一个耗资逾6万美元（其时约合人民币51.6万元）的走廊重装项目结下了梁子，这种不愉快的氛围在萨福特一家搬进来时依然有迹可循。
There were other internal oddities as well. Mr. Saft was at a cocktail party one night when a young man he didn’t know approached him: “He told me I had a pretty nice financial statement for someone my age.” It turned out the guy’s mother was on the board at 1040 Park and prone to divulging private details about applicants.
这里还有其它古怪事。一天晚上，萨福特正在参加一场鸡尾酒会，一名陌生的年轻男子走近他。“他告诉我，我的财务状况在同龄人当中是很不错的。”原来，此人的母亲正是1040 Park的管委会成员，喜欢泄露申请购房者的隐私。
When the president of that board asked him to join, Mr. Saft obliged. At his first meeting in 1984, he sat through a discussion about financing $750,000 in exterior improvements stipulated by an engineer’s report no one had read. Mr. Saft suggested they get a second opinion.
该管委会的主席要他加入时，萨福特接受了这份好意。1984年第一次出席会议时，他完整旁听了一次讨论，内容是筹措7.5万美元（约合人民币454万元）的经费，改善大楼的外观。方案由一名工程师的报告提出，报告的内容则无人读过。萨福特建议他们再征求一下别人的意见。
“It turned out that the building was fine, we didn’t need to spend the money, and I found myself the president of another board,” he said. He even received permission to spend $1 million on a renovation of, what else, the lobby. “By 2005 the lobby was a shambles,” he said. “It looked like the inside of a cheap Italian restaurant.” After the linoleum was replaced by marble, he felt it was prime time to step away.
“结果发现，大楼的状况良好，我们没必要花这笔钱。然后我就发现自己又当选了管委会主席，”他说。他甚至被获准花费一笔100万美元（约合人民币605万元）的装修经费，需要装修的地方还有哪呢，无非还是公寓楼的大厅。“2005年前，大厅的状况惨不忍睹，”他说，“看起来就像一家低档意大利饭馆。”把油毡换成大理石后，他觉得收手不干的黄金时机到了。
But in 2010, the battle of the gym commenced: new shareholders wanted it, older residents didn’t; Mr. Saft’s wife wanted it, he didn’t. “My theory is that if God wanted us to exercise, sweat would smell better,” he said. “People were screaming at each other at the meeting, and I stood up and said, “This is crazy; just vote and let’s move on.’ ”
然而到了2010年，健身房之战打响了：新股东想开设健身房，老业主不想；萨福特的妻子想开，萨福特不想：“我的观点是，如果上帝想要我们锻炼，那么汗味就应该好闻一点，”他说，“人们在讨论会上互相吼叫，我站起来说，‘这太疯狂了；干脆投票见分晓吧。’”
The pro-gym contingent prevailed, and Mr. Saft was urged to reprise his role as board president. He said yes. Being on the sidelines, he said, “feels like purgatory.”
支持健身房的一派占了上风。萨福特不得不行使管委会主席的职权。他对健身房开了绿灯。他说，站在旁观者的角度，“感觉就像炼狱一般”。