IN the 1980s the Sunset Strip — a stretch of Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood packed with bars and clubs — was the center of the hard-rock and hair-metal scene, spawning bands like Guns N’ Roses, Mötley Crüe and Poison. Based on the Broadway musical, the film “Rock of Ages,” which opens on Friday, starring a leather-pantsed Tom Cruise (at left and right) as the self-destructive, baboon-owning sex god Stacee Jaxx, fondly spoofs the era. It’s 1987, and the boys look like girls, the groupies look like strippers, and the hair is highly flammable. Meanwhile, as a small-town blonde named Sherrie (Julianne Hough) and her aspiring rocker boyfriend, Drew (Diego Boneta), try to succeed amid the sleaze, church-lady protesters are fighting to shut down a club called the Bourbon Room.
1980年代的日落大道区是摇滚乐的天堂。那里位于美国西好莱坞日落大道两侧，周围酒吧和俱乐部林立，滋养了硬摇滚（Hard-rock）和长发金属乐（Hair-metal，又称微金属），孕育出枪花（Guns N’Roses）、克鲁小丑（Mötley Crüe）和毒药（Poison）等乐队。6月13日上映的电影《摇滚年代》（Rock of Ages）所描绘的正是当时。电影根据百老汇同名音乐剧拍摄，身着皮裤的汤姆·克鲁斯在片中饰演了一个充满了自毁情绪的迷幻摇滚乐手——性感之神斯泰西·杰克斯（Stacee Jaxx）。那是1987年。当时的男孩子看起来都像女孩，骨肉皮看起来像是脱衣舞娘，所有人的长头发都像在燃烧。剧中，小城来的金发女郎雪莉（茱丽叶·霍夫[Julianne Hough]饰）和她志向远大的摇滚乐手男朋友杜鲁（迭戈·博内塔[Diego Boneta]饰）与一群死板的卫道士抗议者们对抗，阻止他们关掉一所名为“波旁房间”的俱乐部。
Apart from Guns N’ Roses, whose 1987 debut studio album “Appetite for Destruction” is a hard-rock landmark, the music of the Strip is often dismissed as disposable, and the scene is remembered as a cheerfully depraved Aqua Net playground. To get a fuller sense of what the Strip was really like, Sia Michel spoke with Duff McKagan, the former bassist of Guns N’ Roses, whose song “Paradise City” is sung by Mr. Cruise himself in the prologue; Bret Michaels of the glam-rockers Poison, which has several songs in “Rock of Ages”; and Sebastian Bach, the former lead singer of the New Jersey band Skid Row, who has a cameo. These are excerpts from the conversations.
枪花在1987年发行了他们的出道录音棚大碟《毁灭的欲望》（Appetite for destruction）。这是硬摇滚乐历史上的里程碑之作，除此之外，日落大道上的音乐几乎总是被评价为“随便听听就好”的东西，好象那里聚集了一帮又开心又堕落的家伙。为了能让大家更了解当时的音乐究竟是怎么回事，本文作者西亚·米歇尔（Sia Michel）采访了达夫·麦克凯汉（枪花的前任贝斯手，汤姆·克鲁斯在这部电影中亲自演唱了他写的歌《天堂城市》[Paradise City]）、布雷特·迈克尔斯（摇滚乐队毒药的主唱，《摇滚年代》中也选用了数首他的歌曲）以及塞巴斯蒂安·巴赫（新泽西乐队穷街[Skid Row]的主唱，在电影中客串演出）。以下为访谈的摘录。
Bret Michaels
布雷特·迈克尔斯（Bret Michaels）
THEN Frontman of Poison.
过去：毒药乐队成员。
NOW Singer, TV personality, entrepreneur.
现在：主唱、电视节目名人、企业主。
NEW IN TOWN Driving out there in a van [from Pennsylvania], it was an eye-opening experience. We chugged down the Strip in our very dilapidated ambulance van. We had gotten there on a Friday day. We had nowhere to live. We’re driving past the Rainbow, Gazzarri’s, the Roxy, the Whisky, and everyone was just on the street partying. We were like, ‘Is this really happening?’ It almost looked like Times Square in New York. The van moved about 10 feet in an hour. For small-town guys it was a surreal moment.
初到日落大道：从宾夕法尼亚州开厢车去那儿真是段叫人大开眼界的经历！我们从那破破烂烂的急救厢车上下来，那天是个星期五，压根儿就没地方住。我们开车路过了彩虹酒吧、咖扎里、罗西克剧院和威士忌酒吧，街上的所有人好像都在聚会，当时我就想：“这是真的吗？”那地方看起来简直就是纽约的时报广场，我们的车移动得慢极了，差不多一小时才能向前挪10英尺，对于我们这样的乡下小伙来说，绝对是超现实。
THE SUNSET VIBE Imagine it being one big insane frat party, like an over the top “Animal House” toga party, but it happened all the time, almost nightly. We’ve seen nakedness, debauchery, sex, drugs, everything you can think of. Everything crazy that you could do, every crazy thing that could be done was done. Most of the bands that came there were small-town kids that had no clue and got to Hollywood. It’s like when you go to Vegas, it unleashes this primitive animal instinct to party.
日落大道的气氛：想想一场精神病兄弟会的聚会场面是什么样子吧，或者就好像是将电影《动物屋》(Animal House)里参议院开会场景再夸张化。不同的是，在那会儿，这样的场景几乎时刻都在发生，尤其是晚上。我们在日落大道，看到过裸体、放浪形骸的行为、性与毒品，总之，你能想象得到的任何事。任何你能干得出来的疯事，任何可能干得出来的疯事，都有人干过了。去那儿的几乎所有乐队都来自小地方，在好莱坞没有任何人脉。这就好比你到了拉斯维加斯，自动就释放出想要狂欢的原始动物本能。
DEBUT GIG Our first show [on the Strip] was at the Whisky. We went out there and fliered everything, and our first shows, believe it or not, were actually packed. We went to Sir Speedy’s to buy fliers, we wanted the best color, but they said, “You can’t afford it.” So they gave us this ugly fluorescent green — like, no one wants them. There’s actually a color called Poison Green now.
首演：我们在日落大道的第一场演出在威士忌酒吧。我们在附近分发了一些小传单，不管你信不信，我们首场演出就塞满了人。去快印先生（Sir Speedy）印传单的时候，我们说要最好的颜色，但他们说：“你们可付不起。”然后给了我们这种难看的荧光绿——那口气，就好像这种颜色没人要似的。现在这种荧光绿已经被称为“毒药绿”了。
GROUPIES I, Bret Michaels, was an equal opportunity rocker. The women, when we partied, there was no distinct hair color, size, shape — except for the age. You had to be of age. But the girls could throw down just as much as the guys.
骨肉皮：我，布雷特·迈克尔斯，是信奉机会均等的摇滚乐手。当我们玩得热火朝天时，才不介意姑娘的头发颜色、身高和身材呢，当然年龄还是要看的，你至少得成年。不过当时姑娘甩了小伙子的事情也挺多。
SPOILS OF SUCCESS Strictly by accident I have committed every cliché rock thing — wrecking the Ferrari, the fistfights, spent time in jail, crazy debauchery with women. I said, “I’m not like that,” then I realized I had checked them all off the list.
成功带来的战利品：不知不觉中，我就经历了一切陈词滥调认定摇滚乐应该有的东西：撞坏了法拉利、斗殴、蹲牢房、和姑娘们寻欢作乐。但我后来想，“我可不是这种人”，然后我意识到，应该把这些玩意儿都从我的日常清单中清除出去。
STYLE Wearing my Cavaricci pants tucked in my cowboy boots would never happen again.
形象：把卡瓦里奇（Cavaricci）裤子的裤脚塞进牛仔靴里的日子，已经一去不复返了！
STACEE JAXX It was awesome to see Tom Cruise playing a back-in-the-day Bret Michaels meets Axl Rose.
斯泰西·杰克斯：看汤姆·克鲁斯扮演过去的布雷特·迈克尔斯，他遭遇了阿克斯尔·罗斯（Axl Rose），感觉超棒的。
CLEAN UP THE STRIP The P.M.R.C. [Parents Music Resource Center] movement didn’t work very good on the Strip. We were young, we weren’t trying to hurt anyone. I remember certain people being outside of clubs and yelling and I was like, “I don’t play the devil’s music. I play rock ’n’ roll!”
日落大道清洗运动：父母音乐资源中心运动（Parents Music Resource Center，P.M.R.C.1984年出现的组织，倡导父母为子女听的音乐把关——编者注）在日落大道一直推行得很艰难。我们那会儿是很年轻，但并没有打算伤害任何人。我清楚地记得当时人们围在俱乐部外面喊叫抗议，而我只是想：“我唱的不是魔鬼的音乐，我们玩的是摇滚！”
MISPERCEPTIONS ABOUT THE ERA They solely want to wrap it up as a fashion statement and throw it out. But when you listen to the musicians who played then — Slash, Zakk Wylde, the songs that we wrote — we really spent time learning our craft. Something stood the test of time.
对那个时代的误解：人们只想把那会儿的音乐包装成某种时尚风潮，这样现在就可以轻而易举地将它抛在脑后。但如果你好好听听那时的音乐，听听枪花的斯拉什（Slash）、听听扎克·维尔德（Zakk Wylde）还有我们的歌，你会发现我们确实用了很大的力气在磨练自己的技术。我们所做的音乐能经得住时间考验。
Sebastian Bach
塞巴斯蒂安·巴赫（Sebastian Bach）
THEN Skid Row’s frontman.
过去：穷街乐队主唱。
NOW Singer, screen and stage actor.
现在：歌手、电视和舞台剧演员。
NEW IN TOWN The first time I went [to the Strip] was in ‘87, and I was just amazed. Back then you would go to a bar, and there would be just as many, if not more, people outside the bar than there were inside. The whole street would just be crammed with androgynous rockers.
初到日落大道：我第一次去日落大道是1987年，当时我就震惊了。你去一个酒吧，会发现酒吧外的人跟里面的人一样多，甚至更多。整条街上都塞满了看起来雌雄莫辩的摇滚乐手。
GROUPIES The second time I went there was after our “18 and Life” video came out. I walked from the Hyatt Riot House over to the Rainbow, and I felt like the Pied Piper. By the time I got to the Rainbow there were 300 people behind me going: ‘Is that him? That’s him!’ ”
骨肉皮：我第二次去日落大道那会儿，刚发行了《18岁的生命》（18 and life）这首歌的录像带。我从凯悦饭店走向彩虹酒吧，一路上觉得自己简直就像是个彩衣吹笛手。等我到了彩虹酒吧，我身后跟着至少有300人，还嚷嚷着：“是他吧？一定是他！”
‘YOUTH GONE WILD’ I always heard of quaaludes, reading Circus magazine and Creem in the ‘70s when I was a kid, but I’d never encountered quaaludes. One night me and Duff McKagan and Lars Ulrich from Metallica were at the Rainbow, and someone had a whole bag of quaaludes. I was like: “Finally! Where’ve you been all my life?” Me and Duff, being the adventuresome pleasure-seeking fellows that we were, decided to do some quaaludes. All of a sudden we’re standing up, and we lose control of the muscles in our face, our lips start drooping, and we start drooling on each other. We were like, “We better sit down.” So we go to the booth, getting spit on each other’s leather jackets, and Lars comes up with the brilliant idea of charging fans $5 to get a picture taken with us. He’s like: “Here’s your heroes! Guns N’ Roses, Skid Row! Get a picture.” Snap. We’re going [slurred slow-motion voice], “Hey, man, Lars, that’s not cool.” Click. [“I don’t remember that happening,” Mr. McKagan said, while Mr. Ulrich said: “I don’t have a recollection of that, but that doesn’t mean it didn’t happen. But I do remember most of the shenanigans.”]
《狂放不羁的年轻人》（Youth Gone Wild，穷街的知名大碟及主打单曲名）：我一直听到各种关于安眠酮的传闻，尤其是整个七十年代。当我还是个孩子，《马戏团》（Circus）和《精华》杂志上总是会提到这个词，但我自己并没有尝试过。直到有一天，我和达夫·麦克凯汉，还有金属乐队（Metallica）的拉尔斯·乌尔里希（Lars Ulrich）一起到了彩虹酒吧，有人拿来了一大袋安眠酮。我当时想：“终于来了！我以前怎么就没见过它呢？”我和达夫都是那种喜欢追求冒险刺激的家伙，于是我们决定试试看。吃下去之后，我们突然不由自主地站起来，面部肌肉也不再受大脑控制，嘴角下垂，甚至将口水滴答到对方的身上。我们想着，“看来最好还是坐下来”，于是就坐进了一个火车座，皮夹克上都沾着口水。这时候拉尔斯突然想到了一个绝妙的主意，他招呼歌迷来跟我们合影，每位收费五美元。他说：“看！你们的英雄在这儿！枪花！穷街！来拍张照片！”咔嚓。我们则口齿不亲地说：“嘿，伙计，拉尔斯，这样一点儿也不酷。”咔嚓。（“我不记得有这档子事了，”麦克凯汉说。而拉尔斯·乌尔里希也说：“这件事我一点印象也没有，不过不记得并不代表没发生。我确实做过不少恶作剧。”）
SPOILS OF SUCCESS When I first came there, I rented myself a white Corvette, and I remember driving it around Hollywood and the Hollywood Hills, thinking, “I have [really] made it in rock!”
成功带来的战利品：我第一次到日落大道的时候，租了辆白色的雪佛兰克尔维特车，我记得自己开着车绕着好莱坞和好莱坞山跑，心里还想着：“我终于用摇滚乐取得了成功！”
HAIR NATION I am the man who put the hair in hair metal. I also headlined Broadway musicals. I acted in millions of TV shows. I didn’t get to star in “Jekyll and Hyde“ on Broadway because of my haircut. My voice has gotten me everything in my life, not my hair.
长发王国：确实是我，将长发这个元素带入了长发金属乐。但我也在百老汇的音乐剧里领衔主演过，我还在无数电视节目里表演，我获得《化身博士》（Jekyll and Hyde）这部音乐剧里的角色，这些绝不是因为我的发型。最终改变我的生活的是我的声音，不是我的头发。
STYLE I’ve never worn [buttocks-revealing] chaps. The worst thing I ever wore, really, was rubber pants, but I don’t think that was a cliché. They were just way too hot. Rubber doesn’t breathe. I look back on my photos, and I dig them. I think I look really cool.
形象：我从来没穿过露出半个屁股的皮套裤。我所穿过的最糟糕的服装，是橡胶短裤，得出这个结论可不是出于保守。这种服装最大的毛病是穿起来太热了，橡胶一点也不透气。不过就算是现在，我回头来再看当时照片，还是觉得自己相当酷。
FAMOUS FANS I just walked up to Tom on the set and he said, “Hey, Sebastian, I’ve been following you a long time.” I’ve been told that by a lot of famous actors. When I met Sean Penn, he knew everything I’ve ever done. He was like, “Sebastian, why the [expletive] were you in jail?”
著名的歌迷：我去《摇滚时代》剧组探班的时候，汤姆·克鲁斯对我说：“嘿，塞巴斯蒂安，我追随你很久啦。”有很多著名的演员都这样对我说过。至于西恩·潘（Sean Penn），我发现他对我所做过的一切了如指掌，他对我说：“塞巴斯蒂安，你（此处省略脏话）为什么会进监狱？”
MISPERCEPTIONS ABOUT THE ERA People get it wrong that metal was based on image more than music, because a lot of this music has passed the test of time really well. What is music for? It’s to make you feel good. I think this music definitely succeeds in doing that.
对那个时代的误解：人们认为金属乐主要靠的是造型而不是音乐，但这种想法是错误的，因为有大量金属乐都经得住时间考验。音乐的存在是为了什么？为了让你感觉良好。我想金属乐在这方面做得很不错。
Duff Mckagan
达夫·麦克凯汉（Duff Mckagan）
THEN Bassist of Guns N’ Roses.
当时：枪花乐队贝司手。
NOW Musician, writer, co-founder of Meridian Rock Capital Management.
现在：音乐家、作家、子午线摇滚投资顾问公司（Meridian Rock Catital Manegement）联合创始人。
SPIRIT OF SUNSET A couple years ago men’s Italian Vogue asked me to write a piece about 1987 Hollywood, the Strip, and I think they wanted me to write this fancy frolicking story. But at that time AIDS was still thought of as a homosexual disease — needles were shared, sex was unprotected, there were a lot of drugs. I remember housewives from Beverly Hills and Bel-Air coming down and slumming it and getting strung out. The dark underbelly, I resided there. That’s the stuff I saw — people OD’ing. It was kind of gnarly then.
日落大道精神：几年前意大利《Men’s Italian Vogue》杂志曾向我约稿，让我写写1987年的好莱坞和日落大道，我猜他们想让写那些最奇异最欢乐的故事。但在当时，艾滋病仍然被认定为一种同性恋疾病，所以大家肆无忌惮地共享针头、做爱也没有防护措施，还服用了很多毒品。我记得有不少来自比弗利山庄和贝艾尔这两个高档住宅区的阔太太跑来日落大道，拜访了平民窟，然后也沉迷于此。这是日落大道的阴暗面，我当时住在那儿，把这些都看在眼里——我亲眼看到人们过量服用毒品，在当时这算是个无法根治的毒瘤。
FIRST GUNS GIG There were three people there [at the Troubadour], and one of them was our friend, and one was one of our girlfriends, and the other was the girlfriend’s friend. But we believed in ourselves from the first chord we played together. [Later] I remember us reopening the Whisky, which had closed [before I moved to Los Angeles]. It was a bummer that I never got to go. When they opened it back up, we were picked as the band, and we played two shows. That was really fun for me to be able to go in there for the first time ever. That’s one of those gigs that they can’t take away from you.
枪花的首场演出：我们在吟游诗人酒吧的首演只有三个观众，其中一个是我们的朋友，一个是我们的某位女朋友，另一个则是这位女朋友带来的朋友。但我们从弹出第一个音开始，就相信自己一定能成功。后来我记得，正是我们让威士忌酒吧重新开张，它在我搬去洛杉矶之前曾一度关门。想到我从未真正准备好离开，实在是件不太愉快的事。不过当威士忌酒吧重开的时候，我们被选中作为首演的乐队，在那里做了两场演出。对我来说，那是有史以来我第一次觉得去这酒吧还挺有意思，这两场演出是我们最难忘的演出之一。
WANNABES We left on tour in June of ’87 and were gone for a year and a half. There were no computers, no social media, hardly even fax machines, so we had no idea that people in L.A. made this shift in culture to look and sound like us. Imagine landing back on Planet Earth: People were all glammed out when you left, and now you could tell the photo of us they were trying to look like. There was the Izzy [Stradlin] guy, the Slash guy, the Axl [Rose] guy, the me guy, the Steven [Adler] guy, and they were walking all over Hollywood. It was weird.
成为偶像： 1987年6月我们开始巡演，大概有一年半左右的时间离开了日落大道。那会儿没有电脑，没有社交媒体，几乎没有传真机，所以我们也不知道洛杉矶的人都开始纷纷模仿我们的造型和音乐。想象一下，这就好像是从太空返回地球：你离开的时候，人人都还是华丽摇滚范儿，等你回来，他们个个像我们，甚至能猜出他们是在模仿我们的哪张照片。好莱坞的大街上充斥着看起来像伊兹·斯特拉丁（Izzy Stradlin）的家伙，还有像斯拉什的家伙，像阿克斯尔·罗斯的，像我的，像史蒂文·阿德勒（Steven Adler）的，这感觉太古怪了。
MISPERCEPTIONS ABOUT THE ERA What people don’t realize is that a lot of the bands I saw worked really hard, and maybe the reward at the end of the night was getting [wasted] or hooking up. All [Guns] ever did was work. We worked our day jobs in the morning, then we just worked on our band, we slept a couple hours a night. That was it.
对那个时代的误解： 很多人可能没有意识到，当时有不少乐队工作得非常努力，但他们会在晚上将工作的成果挥霍一空。而枪花的全体成员只专注于工作，我们在早上完成了白天的工作，然后将剩下的时间都投入到乐队上，晚上只睡一两个小时。这就是我们成功的原因。