In Boston last week to deliver the commencement address at the Berklee College of Music, Jimmy Page, the founder of Led Zeppelin, learned to his surprise that the school had a course in which his guitar licks were minutely analyzed. “They go into all these things and deconstruct them,” he said, “the harmonies and the voicings and the progressions, the arrangements.”
“齐柏林飞艇”(Led Zeppelin)乐队的创始人吉米·佩奇(Jimmy Page)上周在波士顿伯克利音乐学院的毕业典礼上表演，他惊讶地发现，这所学校有一门课会详尽分析他的吉他乐句。“他们深入研究那些东西，去解构它们，”他说，“和声、调性，乃至整个进程和编曲。”
For Mr. Page, who turned 70 in January, the encounter was a reminder not just of his exalted status among guitarists but also of the practical applications of a project that occupied his attention for the better part of the last three years. Track by track, he has been remastering the entire Led Zeppelin catalog of nine studio albums and combing through the group’s archives looking for alternative versions that can illuminate how the band created songs that came to define 1970s rock and influence generations of musicians since.
佩奇今年一月就满70岁了，这一次的事情不仅提醒人们，他在吉他手之中享有多么崇高的地位，也让人想起他在最近三年时间来一直花费大量精力所从事的一个项目。他为“齐柏林飞艇”九张录音室专辑中的歌曲一首首地重制母带，从乐队资料档案里收集专辑中未采用的版本，期望它们可以阐明乐队如何创作出那些定义了20世纪70年代摇滚乐，并影响着后来一代代音乐人的作品。
“I knew it was a long haul, that it would involve hundreds of hours of tape,” he said in an interview in New York on Wednesday. “I had to listen to everything, every bootleg that was out there, too. But it has to be done if you’re going to do something really authoritative. I wanted to be sure this holds up, and I hate to think, if I wasn’t around, what was going to happen.”
“我知道这是一项漫长艰苦的工作，有几百小时的录音，”周三他在纽约接受采访时说。“我全都得听，还有所有在外面流传的私录专辑。但如果你想做点真正权威的东西，那么这是绕不过去的。我希望确保这件事坚持做下去，我不愿去想：如果我不在了，这件事会变成怎样。”
The first three records, covering 1968 through 1970, will be released by Rhino Records on June 3, with the rest to follow this year and next, in formats ranging from vinyl to digital. In each case, the original remastered disc is accompanied by another in which songs that are now famous, “Whole Lotta Love” and “Stairway to Heaven” among them, are shown as works in progress. In addition, there are studio jams and live performances, drawn from the original analog tapes.
其中的前三张专辑，也就是从1968年到1970年的三张专辑，将由莱诺唱片公司(Rhino Records)于6月3日发行，其余专辑也将在今年和明年发行，发行格式包括黑胶唱片和数码版本。在所有新发专辑中，除了包括原始专辑的重制版，还会附上另一张选集，里面收入《很多的爱》(Whole Lotta Love)和《通往天国的阶梯》(Stairway to Heaven)等如今的名曲在当年创作时的半成品。
Mr. Page, his hair thick and snowy white, seemed very much aware of the passage of time but also made light of it, referring jokingly to himself as “a gentleman of an advancing age.” In the interview, he was by turns reflective and proudly assertive about his and Led Zeppelin’s place in the history of pop music. Here are excerpts, condensed and edited:
佩奇的头发浓密雪白，他似乎清醒地意识到时间的推移，但也似乎并不在意，还开玩笑说自己是个“年长的绅士”。在采访中，他骄傲地肯定“齐柏林飞艇”在流行音乐史上的地位，与此同时又对此充满反思。下面是采访的摘要，经过提炼和编辑：
Q. Why are you doing this? Cynics will no doubt say you’re just another classic-rock star trying to make a buck, but you’re known to be very well off, so obviously something else is driving you. But what is it?
问：你为什么要重发那些专辑？肯定有人会冷嘲热讽，说你肯定又是一个想捞钱的经典摇滚明星。但众所周知，你很富有，所以你肯定有别的目的，但那是什么呢？
A. It’s multifaceted. The original Led Zeppelin analog tapes were done for vinyl. Then they made CDs of the original analog tapes, and not very well, I might add. The CDs sounded horrible to me in those early days. I knew it could be done better, and so we remastered specifically for CD.
答：有很多原因。原始的“齐柏林飞艇”的模拟磁带是为黑胶唱片制作的。后来他们又用这个原始的模拟磁带做了CD唱片，我得说，效果不算好。我觉得早期CD的声音很糟糕。我知道它可以更好，所以我们要为CD唱片特别重新制作母带。
That was 20 years ago. Now you think of all the listening formats around today, especially what’s been developed over the last five years. The advent of Beats headphones, for heaven’s sake, has given everyone a different perception of listening. You’ve got all these digital formats, and it was apparent that everything had to be remastered in every format, all in one go, across the board.
那是20年前的事了。现在你想想周围所有那些听音乐的形式，特别是最近五年来的发展。Beats耳机的出现，天哪，让所有人都有了不同的聆听概念。有那么多数码音乐格式，显然，所有东西都得按所有格式重新制作母带，一下子就要做所有东西。
Q. I assume that you’re also thinking about your legacy.
问：我觉得你可能也是在考虑你个人毕生留下的作品。
A. Yes, I am aware of that. I’m fully aware of what it means as a textbook to musicians. There is a wealth of musical content and attitudes and variations. That passing on of the baton, if you like, is part of the whole thing.
答：是的，我意识到了这一点。我充分意识到它对于音乐家们来说就像一本教科书。它们是关于音乐的内容、态度与变化的一笔财富。换句话说，这是接力棒的传递，是整个音乐事业的一部分。
Q. Looking at the credits for these first three records, one thing I was reminded of is that you were the producer, so it’s all your sonic design. This was at a time when everybody else, even the Beatles and the Stones, had a producer in the booth supervising things. But you didn’t. How were you able to pull that off?
问：看前三张专辑的工作人员名单时，我注意到制作人是你，所以它们的声音都是你设计的。当时别的乐队，甚至“披头士”(Beatles)和“滚石” (the Rolling Stones)都请别的制作人到录音室来监督全程。但你却没有这么做。你是怎么做到的？
A. I’d learned so much being a studio musician. I’d learned how to do things technically, how things were recorded, the aspect of compression and echo and reverb, all of these things. And I’d also seen things really suffer in the studio because of producers who were really annoying. I didn’t want anybody saying to me, ‘Oh, I don’t think you should use the bow on that.’ I knew what I was doing, and I didn’t want anybody getting in the way of it.
答：我在担任录音室伴奏乐手时学到了很多东西。我学到了录音室技术，声音是怎样录制下来，还有压缩、回声和混响方面的知识，所有这些东西。我也见识过这样的情况，如果制作人很讨厌，录音会非常痛苦。我可不希望有人对我说：“啊，我不希望你用琴弓拉吉他。”我知道自己在做什么，我不想别人来碍我的事。
Q. In the movie “It Might Get Loud,” you talked about how, back in your studio musician days, musical directors didn’t object when you added a riff onto the melody of a song. But I want to turn that around and ask you when you realized that the riff itself could be the song or at least generate the songs. Because that’s one of your trademarks.
问：在记录片《吉他英雄》(It Might Get Loud)中，你说起自己在担任录音室伴奏乐手的时候，音乐负责人们并不反对你在歌曲的旋律里加一段吉他演奏乐段。但我想回过来再问问你，你是在什么时候发现，吉他乐段本身就可以成为一首歌，或者说至少可以围绕着它产生歌曲呢？因为这正是你的标志之一。
A. Ah, yes, the power of riffs and the trance elements of riffs. I would take that back as far as my formative years, trying to learn from blues records. I really took all of that seriously on board. The intensity of a dark riff — that definitely came to me from the Chicago blues. So when I started writing, the riffs were in the writing.
答：啊，是的，吉他乐段的力量与吉他乐段中令人恍惚出神的成分。我想这可能是我在早年时期从布鲁斯唱片中学来的。我非常认真地对待所有这些东西。一段阴暗的吉他乐段中的激情——这肯定是我从芝加哥布鲁斯中学来的。所以当我开始写歌的时候，这些乐段就自然而然地写出来了。
Q. In part because of Led Zeppelin’s classic riffs, you guys are right up there with George Clinton and James Brown as sources for samples. And, of course, you did something yourself with Puff Daddy involving “Kashmir.” So how do you feel about your music being sampled for hip-hop records?
问：在“齐柏林飞艇”的一些经典乐段里，你们曾经用乔治·克林顿(George Clinton)和詹姆斯·布朗(James Brown)的歌作为素材。当然，你和“吹牛老爹”(Puff Daddy)合作的东西里也能听到《克什米尔》(Kashmir)出现。所以对于嘻哈乐队的唱片拿你的音乐做采样，你有什么想法？
A. In a creative sense, it’s fantastic. Even if you don’t play an instrument, you’re writing new things. These guys come up with some amazing work, in the electronics and the mixing. I find it really fun to listen to. As far as the business side of it, however, the issue of sampling is thorny. The problem is people not getting paid for performances, Across the board, they are being pirated. Their music gets played, and they don’t get paid. I have a problem with that. I really do.
答：从创作的角度来看，这很棒。就算你不演奏乐器，你也可以写出新东西。这些人用电子乐和混音做出了有趣的作品。我觉得听上去很有意思。至于从商业的角度来看，采样这个问题很棘手。问题是这些歌被演出时，作者拿不到报酬，总的来说它们是被盗版了。作曲者的音乐被播放，他们却拿不到报酬。这对我来说是个问题。确实如此。
Q. You’ve also been on the other side of that debate, especially on the first couple of Led Zeppelin records, where you were criticized for using the material of Chicago blues greats, especially Willie Dixon, without acknowledging their authorship.
问：在这类争论中，你也曾经处于另一方，特别是在“齐柏林飞艇”的前几张专辑里。人们批评你在歌曲中使用芝加哥布鲁斯大师的东西，特别是威利·迪克森(Willie Dixon)的，却没有注明作者出处。
A. Yeah, but he got credited.
答：耶，但他得到作者署名权了。
Q. But only after a lot of legal wrangling, so I wanted to ask in retrospect how did that happen, and once it was brought to the attention of your management, why did they resist it?
问：但那是经历了很多法律纠纷之后的事了。所以我想问，回顾起来，你的经纪人们知道了这件事以后，他们一开始为什么要拒绝？
A. I had a riff, which is a unique riff, O.K., and I had a structure for the song that was a unique structure. That is it. However, within the lyrics of it, there’s “You Need Love,” and there are similarities within the lyrics. Now I’m not pointing a finger at anybody, but I’m just saying that’s what happened, and Willie Dixon got credit. Fair enough.
答：我有了一个乐段，一个独一无二的乐段，好。然后我又有了整首歌的结构，也是独一无二的结构。就是这样。然后写上歌词，歌词里有几句《你需要爱》(You Need Love)里的歌词，两首歌歌词很相似（这里是指“齐柏林飞艇”的Whole Lotta Love这首歌与Willie Dixon的You Need Love有相似之处——译注）。现在我不想指责任何人，我只想说，事情就这么发生了，威利·迪克森的名字被署上去了。没什么不公平的。
Q. After being ensconced in the studio for three years, do you now feel a need, a hankering, to play live?
问：在录音室呆了三年之后，你有没有去做现场演出的渴望呢？
A. Absolutely, absolutely. I definitely want to play live. Because, you know, I’ve still got a twinkle in my eye. I can still play. So, yeah, I’ll just get myself into musical shape, just concentrating on the guitar.
答：绝对有，绝对有。我肯定想演出。因为，你知道，我的眼睛还在闪光。我还能弹琴。是的，我要让自己进入音乐状态，要专注在吉他上面。
Q. So when you go out, would it be as Led Zeppelin?
问：所以等你演出时，会重组“齐柏林飞艇”吗？
A. I was told last year that Robert Plant said he is doing nothing in 2014, and what do the other two guys think? Well, he knows what the other guys think. Everyone would love to play more concerts for the band. He’s just playing games, and I’m fed up with it, to be honest with you. I don’t sing, so I can’t do much about it. It just looks so unlikely, doesn’t it?
答：去年有人告诉我，罗伯特·普兰特(Robert Plant)说他2014年没事可干，不知另外两个人怎么想。好吧，他知道其他人是怎么想的。每个人都愿意为这个乐队多演几场。他只是在耍花招，坦白告诉你，我已经受够了。我不唱歌，所以我对此无能为力。重组不太可能发生，不是吗。
Q. But over the years you’ve done other things, like with the Black Crowes or Paul Rodgers. So there are a lot of different formats in which I can imagine your playing live.
问：但是这些年来你做过许多其他事情，比如和“黑乌鸦”(Black Crowes)还有保罗·罗杰斯(Paul Rodgers)一起合作。我觉得你还可以通过很多其他形式去现场演出。
A. I can, too. I’m not devoid of ideas. So let’s hope that some time in the next year, I’m seen to be playing out there. Because that’s the only thing that’s been missing. But you have to do what you have to do, and I had to do this.
答：我也这么想。我不缺想法。所以希望明年什么时候可以看见我的现场吧。因为只差这一件事了。但你得做你必须做的事情，我必须做的就是这个（指重发专辑——译注）。