In 2004, as Jimmy Fallon was leaving “Saturday Night Live” after a six-year run creating sketch characters and sharing the “Weekend Update” desk with Tina Fey, Lorne Michaels floated an idea.
2004年，吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)正要离开《周六夜现场》(SNL)，他在这个舞台上做了六年，创作、演绎众多小品人物、与蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)同掌“周末新闻”(Weekend Update)版块的节目，这时，洛恩·迈克尔斯(Lorne Michaels)提出一个想法。
Mr. Michaels, Mr. Fallon’s patron at “SNL” and the show’s executive producer, had a hunch that this comedian’s future did not lie in Hollywood and movies, which he wanted to pursue, but on a traditional late-night talk show.
迈克尔斯，这位法伦在SNL的贵人、节目执行制作人有这样一个直觉，即：这位笑星的辉煌未来，并不在他自己想要进军的好莱坞电影界，而是在传统的晚间脱口秀中。
“I always thought that was the best use of his talents,” Mr. Michaels said. “There are very few people who can do that job. I always say there are a hundred U.S. senators and eight people with their own show.”
“我一直都认为这才是最能尽其材的舞台，”迈克尔斯说，“能胜任这个角色的人少之又少。我总说，美国有一百个参议员，但能主持脱口秀的人，不超过八个。”
That instinct has paid off for both men: Starting on Monday, Mr. Fallon, fresh from almost five years of very-well-received work at “Late Night” on NBC, will become the star of that network’s venerable “Tonight Show,” with Mr. Michaels overseeing it as executive producer, now in control of all the most important properties on the NBC late-night landscape.
这个想法让他们双方都收益颇丰：法伦在NBC广播电视公司成功主持了近五年的《深夜秀》(Late Night)之后，将于周一开始，成为台内久负盛名的《今夜秀》(Tonight Show)上的明星，而迈克尔斯将任执行制片人——由此，他便将NBC所有的晚间重头戏尽握掌中。
“I think he’s ready for the moment,” Mr. Michaels said last week.
“我觉得他已经准备好迎接这个重要时刻了，”迈克尔斯上周称。
More than ready, Mr. Fallon is brimming with confidence after his apprenticeship at “Late Night,” which follows “Tonight.” In his stylized club of an office on the sixth floor of NBC’s Rockefeller Center headquarters, known as 30 Rock, Mr. Fallon, lanky, loose limbed and still boyish at 39, was bubbling with enthusiasm. “I’m supremely excited,” he said. “But I’m older. I’ve grown up. I was nervous at the start of ‘Late Night.’ Now I know I can do this show.”
何止是“准备好”了，在经历了《深夜秀》（紧随《今夜秀》之后播出）的磨练之后，法伦已是自信满怀了。在著名的“洛克30号”——洛克菲勒中心NBC总部、他位于大厦六层的装饰如俱乐部、充满艺术感的办公室里，身材颀长、四肢灵活、39岁仍保有孩子气的法伦显得激情洋溢。“我超级兴奋，”他说，“我现在年纪大些了，成熟了。当初接《深夜秀》的时候我的心情是紧张的。但是现在我知道我可以胜任这个节目。”
NBC certainly believes he can — and that Mr. Fallon will be up to the daunting challenge of keeping “Tonight” relevant in the face of altered viewing habits, an upheaval in audience demographics and diminishing late-night profits. The network, for a second time, put together a plan to ease a reluctant (and still winning) Jay Leno out of the “Tonight” chair in favor of a new-generation star. (Mr. Leno’s last night was Feb. 6.)
NBC无疑也是相信这一点的，即法伦可以接下这个艰难的挑战，在观众收视习惯、年龄结构都发生着剧变、而晚间栏目收益普遍下降的今天，让《今夜秀》跟上时代的脚步。台里特意准备了一套方案，将杰·雷诺(Jay Leno)第二次从《今夜秀》的宝座上请走，给年轻一代新星让位（雷诺先生的最后一场秀于2月6日播出）。
The motive for the change was not purely economic, because “Tonight” is not the profit generator it once was. The show can still make money on a tighter budget, and Mr. Fallon will, at least for a time, make considerably less than Mr. Leno’s reported annual salary of about $20 million. (NBC imposed staff and salary reductions on Mr. Leno in 2012.)
这步棋的动机并不完全出于经济利益的考虑，因为《今夜秀》早已不是昔日的摇钱树了。在缩减预算的前提下，节目尚可创收，法伦（至少短期内）也将领取比雷诺的2000万美金的年收入少很多的薪金（NBC曾在2012年强使雷诺裁员减薪）。
For NBC, the move is more about maintaining a vital piece of its birthright than retrofitting an ATM machine. That is one reason Mr. Fallon will open his “Tonight” in an expensive, elegant renovated studio at Rockefeller Center. Still, to remain an essential part of American culture, “Tonight” required a generational change at some point, adjusting the focus from baby boomers to their millennial kids. Mr. Leno’s audience, while still the largest in late night, had steadily aged. The median viewer was below 50 in 2005; when Mr. Leno left the air this month, it had climbed to 57.8.
对于NBC来说，这次换人更多是为了维持其王牌节目的地位，而不是为摇钱树修枝剪叶。这也是为什么法伦将在洛克菲勒中心的装修一新、价格不菲的华丽演播厅内开始自己主持的脱口秀。为了继续保持其在美国文化中的重要地位，《今夜秀》早晚需要完成这个转型，将重心从战后婴儿潮出生的这代人转移到他们千禧一代的孩子身上。雷诺虽然仍拥有晚间秀中最多的观众，但是这批观众也已经稳步变老。在2005年，观众平均年龄在50岁以下，而雷诺先生退下时，这个年龄已经升至57.8岁。
The network shows all have older audiences. At ABC, the median age for viewers of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” is 54.2. Then there’s David Letterman, the CBS veteran who has the oldest viewership, with a median age of 58. That audience may expand and get even older, if he inherits some of Mr. Leno’s more traditional viewers, as he did for the eight months when Conan O’Brien (who had a considerably younger core audience) took over “Tonight.”
各大台脱口秀的观众都趋于年长化。ABC广播电视公司的的吉米·坎摩尔直播秀(Jimmy Kimmel Live!)的观众平均年龄为54.2岁，CBS广播电视公司的老将大卫·莱特曼(David Letterman)拥有最高年龄群的观众，平均年龄为58岁。如果雷诺的老派观众中的一部分转向他，那么这个观众群还有可能扩张，年龄进一步增长。这个现象在康納·奥布莱恩（Conan O’Brien，其观众群年龄偏低很多）接手《今夜秀》的那八个月里就曾出现。
Though NBC clearly wants Mr. Fallon to hold onto the lead in total audience, the larger question is whether any of the network late-night shows can induce younger viewers to commit regularly. They tend to steer clear of traditional broadcasting, and they realize they can see Mr. Fallon’s best comedy bits the next day on YouTube.
尽管NBC希望法伦可以保持住收视率，但是更大的问号似乎在于：是否还有任何一档晚间脱口秀节目可以让年轻的观众每晚都守在电视前等待观看。他们通常都会绕开传统的媒体，因为他们知道第二天就可以在YouTube上看到法伦那些最精彩的片段。
Even with potent competition for younger viewers all over cable, from the likes of Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert on Comedy Central and Mr. O’Brien on TBS, the host NBC is clearly most concerned about is Mr. Kimmel, who is 46. (The only female host in late-night is Chelsea Handler, 38, on E!) Mr. Fallon has posted steadily climbing ratings recently, but one underacknowledged reason NBC pushed for the change to occur now is that its executives did not want Mr. Kimmel to settle in for too long, taking the competition to the new platforms of online videos and social media. Adding Seth Meyers, 40, as the new “Late Night” host is another NBC move to reassert its late-night block as a continuing franchise, ready to continue its decades of dominance.
尽管各大电视台对年轻观众的竞争都很强劲——从是喜剧中心频道(Comedy Central)的乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)、史蒂芬·科拜尔(Stephen Colbert)，到TBS电视台的奥布莱恩，但是很显然，最让NBC头疼的还是46岁的坎摩尔（晚间脱口秀中唯一的女性主持人是E!频道38岁的切尔西·汉德勒[Chelsea Handler]）。近期，法伦的收视率稳步攀升，而NBC在此刻促成这个换人的言外之意，也是其管理层并不想让坎摩尔的宝座坐得太稳，把竞争推倒网络视频、社交媒体等新的战场上。让40岁的塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)接掌新版的《深夜秀》，也是NBC为进一步巩固其在未来几十年间晚间档节目的统治地位而走了另一步棋。
But change is always risky, and by almost every estimation, NBC is getting a different kind of host with Mr. Fallon, one who brings talents both new and old to the job.
但是，凡是变化，皆有风险。不论如何掐算，NBC这次都请来了法伦这样一位不一样的主持人，因为他可以将旧风新貌一并带到节目上。
The new is obvious: He has already moved aggressively to take advantage of the increasing importance of Internet viewing of bits from late-night shows. Like Mr. Kimmel and Mr. O’Brien, Mr. Fallon has broken though with widely watched videos, like his recent “Born to Run” parody with Bruce Springsteen about Gov. Chris Christie’s traffic fiasco. It has had about four million views. That’s modest by Mr. Fallon’s standards. “The Evolution of Mom Dancing” with Michelle Obama is up to 17 million views. And a conversation with his pal Justin Timberlake, all in hashtags, has 21 million.
“新”显而易见：他已经开始大刀阔斧地提升这档晚间节目片段的网络点击量。如坎摩尔、奥布莱恩一样，法伦也风靡网络：他近期与布鲁斯·史普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)合作，恶搞克里斯·克里斯蒂州长(Chris Christie)“大桥门”丑闻的歌曲《生来奔忙》(Born to Run)，已有400万点击量。按法伦先生的标准，这还不算什么。他和米歇尔·奥巴马一起演绎的“妈妈舞蹈的进化”点击量已达1700万，和贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)的“全打#号”方式聊天，点击量已有2100万。
Mr. Fallon likes extending the shelf life of his best bits on YouTube. It reminds him of his “SNL”-obsessed childhood when he would take a VHS tape of favorite sketches to friends’ houses to play for them. “I was like a human YouTube,” Mr. Fallon said. “I was You-Man Tube.”
法伦希望用YouTube为他节目的精华部分保鲜。这让他想到他痴迷于《周六夜现场》的童年时代，他将节目的精彩片段用家庭录影带录下来，拿到朋友家给他们播放。“我当时就是个真人版YouTube，”法伦说。
But he said he did not want the show to divert itself into a studio for Internet videos. It is unclear whether the videos provide a net gain by building awareness of shows, or a new loss, because viewers know they can see what they like online.
但是，他称并不想让自己的节目变成制作网络视频的演播厅。到底是这些视频为节目本身提高了知名度，还是造成观众转去网上看节目而影响了收视率，目前还不得而知。
It’s still all about the television show, he said, which is where the old part comes in.
归根到底这还是一档电视节目，他说，这也正是“旧”的所在。
Given the range of his talents — singing, guitar playing, impressions, sketches — the big shift in a Jimmy Fallon “Tonight Show” would seem to be toward a variety show rather than stand-up-based comedy. Mr. Michaels said, “Jimmy is by no means a pure stand-up, far from it.”
由于他拥有广泛的才能（从唱歌、弹吉他、真人模仿、小品表演等），吉米·法伦主持《今夜秀》之后最大的改变，即是将以往的单口喜剧脱口秀的形式转变为综艺喜剧。迈克尔斯先生称：“吉米做的绝不是单纯的清口喜剧。”
Mr. Michaels made a connection to a venerable chapter of show business history, likening Mr. Fallon and Mr. Timberlake to Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. “When you see Jimmy and Justin performing on his show or ‘SNL,’ you’re going back to another time, when they were making those kinds of shows and movies. They would have been huge stars, just because they can sing and dance and do jokes.”
迈克尔斯联想到演艺界历史中的一个重要篇章，将法伦和提姆布莱克与平·克劳斯贝(Bing Crosby)和鲍勃·霍普(Bob Hope)相比。“当你看着吉米和贾斯汀在他的节目或者SNL上表演的时候，你就好像回到了另一个时代——那个节目和电影都是这种风格的时代。他们要是在那时，就凭能歌善舞、会讲笑话，就能成为巨星。”
Mr. Fallon accepts the comparison: “What I do is more a variety show. It’s always been older in style. I’m an old soul.” His favorite channel on Sirius XM satellite radio is one with big-band era music, the ’40s on 4. “It will be a new take, but the show will have an old soul.”
法伦接受这个对比，“我做的就是很像一个综艺节目。从风格上讲，这个节目一直就很传统。我本身也是个老派的人。”他在天狼星卫星广播(Sirius XM satellite radio)中最喜欢的频道是“4频道40年代”(40s on 4)，播放标志那个年代的大牌乐队的音乐。在新貌之下，节目还是原来那个节目。
Specifically, he feels linked to the first “Tonight” host, Steve Allen, who featured humor and music but also wild and silly stunts like climbing into a bowl of banana splits. “I would love for Steve Allen to still be around,” Mr. Fallon said, “because I think he would say, ‘This guy gets it.’ ”
他尤其感觉与《今夜秀》的第一任主持人史蒂夫·艾伦(Steve Allen)很有共鸣。艾伦以幽默和音乐著称，但也会时不时出现些比如爬进一碗巨大的香蕉船冰淇淋这样又疯狂又二的镜头。“如果史蒂夫·艾伦还在就好了，”法伦先生说，“因为我觉得他会说，‘嗯，这个人和我有共鸣’。”
Mr. Fallon acknowledged that his “Tonight” will not be a place to go — at least initially — for hard-hitting interviews with politicians or celebrities dealing with some unpleasantness. When President Obama and Mitt Romney were his guests, Mr. Fallon had them “slow jam the news,” one of his signature bits. If that means taking criticism for soft interviews, Mr. Fallon said, so be it.
法伦先生指出，他的《今夜秀》将不会是（至少在初始阶段）政客接受正面强硬方式的采访或明星遇到不顺前来倾诉心声的平台。当奥巴马总统和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)来上他的节目时，法伦请他们配着慢步舞曲播送新闻（他的传统环节）。法伦说，如果这要被指责为采访柔和，那么我也无话可说。
“Other people do that better,” Mr. Fallon said. “I leave that to Barbara Walters or Oprah Winfrey. The political stuff? Jon Stewart and Bill Maher, they have it. And Stephen Colbert, who is an animal. He’s amazing. Those guys are good at it. I don’t want to mess with that.”
“这可能是别人的长项，”法伦说，“我还是让芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)或者奧普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)去做吧。政治话题？有乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)、比尔·马赫(Bill Maher)他们，还有史蒂芬·科拜尔(Stephen Colbert)，那是个异类、奇才。他们已经做得很出色了。我不想去搅合。”
Of course, Johnny Carson, host of “Tonight” from 1962 to ’92, had to deal with Vietnam; Mr. Leno and Mr. Letterman had to deal with Sept. 11. Things will happen, and “Tonight” will inevitably be drawn in.
诚然，《今夜秀》1962至1992年的主持人约翰尼·卡森(Johnny Carson)赶上了越南战争，雷诺、莱特曼赶上了“9·11”。世事难料，《今夜秀》也必然不可避免地将要置身于这些时事之中。
For that reason, Mr. Fallon recently began extending his monologues on “Late Night” and will extend them more on “Tonight,” though Mr. Michaels noted that one difference would involve inserting news clips to illustrate the humor.
所以，法伦扩展了《深夜秀》中单口评述的环节，在《今夜秀》中这部分内容还将进一步扩展，但迈克尔斯指出，变化之一是节目将会插入新闻视频以增加点评的搞笑效果。
And of course Mr. Fallon still breaks himself up with his jokes. “That’s another difference,” Mr. Michaels said. “Jimmy is enjoying the jokes.”
当然还有，法伦经常讲着讲着笑话就自己笑起来。“这也是另外一个不同，”迈克尔斯说，“吉米他自己很喜欢笑话。”
Will they both enjoy the pressure that is sure to come? They understand the stakes, especially after NBC’s quick leap to the panic button when Mr. O’Brien didn’t immediately retain the Leno-size audience.
他们二人都会笑面挑战吗？他们都清楚赌注之高，尤其是在见识了NBC在奥布莱恩没能马上保持住雷诺时期的收视率时惊慌换人的举措之后，他们更是知道个中风险。
“We’re both determined to win,” Mr. Michaels said. “Not so much the ratings, but just to restore and make that show important.” He said he expected a predictably big first night on Monday: “And right after the premiere comes Tuesday. And then there’s another show.” Fortunately, he said, Mr. Timberlake will arrive on Friday as a guest, which creates another event to bookend the first week.
“我们都是抱定必胜之心，”迈克尔斯说，“并不一定是要收视率如何，而是在于重塑这档节目的重要地位。”他说，他看好周一首场秀的大捷，“大捷之后紧接着是星期二的节目，然后是再之后的一期。”他说，好在提姆布莱克周五会做嘉宾，为第一周的开播加上一场压轴重戏。
Mr. Fallon is trying to shrug off the pressure. “I don’t think we have to win,” he said. “I just think we have to keep doing better.”
法伦则不以为然，对压力之大轻描淡写。“我不觉得我们一定要打什么胜仗，”他说，“我觉得只要能越做越好就行。”
He did acknowledge that there was a primary measuring stick for this new-generation “Tonight Show.” “I think Kimmel is going to be my main competitor,” Mr. Fallon said. “It’s a friendly rivalry, it really is. I needed someone to compete against me, to make me want to be sharper. Jimmy makes me want to be better.”
他承认这个面向新一代观众的《今夜秀》也将有一个成功与否的衡量标准。“我认为坎摩尔将是我的主要竞争对手，”法伦先生说，“亦敌亦友，确实是这样。我需要有人与我竞争，让我变得更加锋利。吉米（坎摩尔）让我想要做得更好。”
A winner is harder than ever to determine officially because viewers, especially younger ones, watch entertainment in such different ways now. With “Late Night,” a show that started at 12:35 a.m. (really more like 12:37 a.m.), Mr. Fallon said he told people that he understood it was difficult to stay up that late. He even set up his parents’ DVR so they could see him the next day.
然而，正式确定赢家变得空前的困难，因为观众们——尤其是年轻的观众们——观看娱乐节目的方式已经大大不同于以往。《深夜秀》夜间12:35开播（实际上更接近于12:37），法伦和大家说，熬到那么晚看节目确实太难了，这可以理解。他甚至将他父母的录像机设置好自动录制，以便他们转天可以看他的节目。
“Now they have no excuse,” he said. “They better stay up — 11:30 is not that late. You can do it now, Mom and Dad. And in Chicago, people really have no excuse — 10:30? Come on, people. There is no excuse. Local news, ‘The Tonight Show.’ That’s the way your life should work. Here’s your schedule. Let’s do this for the next 20 years.”
“现在没有借口了，”他说，“11:30不算晚，他们最好乖乖地等着收看。爸妈，你们能看电视首播了。还有就是芝加哥的人们，你们就更没有借口了，10:30，太早了，完全没有借口。先看当地新闻，然后接着看《今夜秀》。你的生活就应该这样安排。我给你安排了日程表。咱们今后20年就按这个来。”