Will Meyer and Gray Davis consider themselves “maniacs” about the lighting in the spaces they design. If nothing else, Mr. Meyer, 45, said, “It needs to make people look attractive.”
威尔·梅耶(Will Meyer)和格雷·戴维斯(Gray Davis)都认为，他们对自己所设计的室内空间中的照明非常“狂热”。现年45岁的梅耶说，“照明必须把人衬托得更有魅力。”
But whenever possible, it should do a lot more. That’s why their fixture of choice is often a pendant light — something that can be seen in the interiors of the Paramount Hotel and the restaurant Harlow in New York, projects recently completed by their firm, Meyer Davis Studio.
不过室内照明发挥的作用，只要有可能，应该比这大得多。正因如此，他们首选的灯具往往是吊灯——可以参见百乐门酒店(Paramount Hotel)和纽约哈洛餐厅(restaurant Harlow)的室内设计。这两个项目是他们公司——梅耶-戴维斯工作室(Meyer Davis Studio)的最新作品。
Pendant fixtures have so many functions, Mr. Davis, 50, explained. “We like the sculptural aspect,” he said. And “they can be the focal point of a room, or can bring intimacy to a space.”
吊灯的功能非常丰富，现年50岁的戴维斯解释道，“我们喜欢吊灯的雕塑美感，”他说，“它们可以成为房间里的一大亮点，也可以营造温馨亲切的氛围。”
And in hotel projects, he added, “We use them on each side of the bed, which frees up space on bedside tables.”
他接着说，在酒店项目当中，“我们在每张床的两侧都装了吊灯，这样就可以节省床头柜的柜面空间。”
Among their favorites are the hanging fixtures designed by Isamu Noguchi in the 1950s, which they have in their own homes. So they were excited to see Issey Miyake’s IN-EI lamps, a contemporary version of that classic design, artfully arrayed in the window at Artemide, in SoHo.
两人最喜欢的设计，包括野口勇(Isamu Noguchi)在上世纪50年代设计的吊灯，他们自己家用的就是野口勇的作品。因此，当他们在苏豪区(SoHo)看到Artemide的橱窗里美妙地展示着三宅一生(Issey Miyake)的“阴翳”(IN-EI)灯具时，心里非常激动，因为这些灯具就是野口勇经典作品在当代的再现。
As Mr. Meyer said: “It’s really difficult to take an idea of something that everybody knows about and successfully reinvent that. This is one of the few we’ve seen that does something interesting.”
正如梅耶所说：“从家喻户晓的作品中汲取灵感，并在此基础上进行再创作，这真的很难。‘阴翳’是我们见过的少数几件有意思的作品之一。”
The design wasn’t the only thing that was reinvented, Mr. Davis pointed out. “They’re made of recycled PET bottles,” he said, referring to the reusable plastic.
戴维斯指出，在“阴翳”灯具中，不仅仅是原作的设计得以再创作，“它们还是由回收的PET瓶制成。”他所说的PET瓶，指的是可再生塑料瓶。
They also liked the Coltrane suspension lamp, from the Portuguese company Delightfull, a dynamic piece they chose for the lobby of the Paramount Hotel. The effect it creates, Mr. Meyer said, is “almost like looking into a flying flock of birds.”
他们还喜欢葡萄牙公司delightfull出品的“Coltrane”吊灯，这正是那件他们为百乐门酒店的大堂挑选的、动感十足的灯饰。梅耶说，它制造出的效果“几乎就像看向一群飞翔的鸟儿”。
The Block 2 from Minotti, by Henry Pilcher, an Australian designer, is another “totally cool” fixture, he said. “It is an amazing evolution of those industrial factory lights we’ve all seen.”
他说，澳大利亚设计师亨利·皮尔彻(Henry Pilcher)为Minotti公司设计的“Block 2”也是一件“酷毙了”的灯具。“它对我们司空见惯的那种工厂灯做了惊人的改进。”
The two men are also fans of Roll & Hill, a Brooklyn manufacturer whose fixtures they have put in a number of Meyer Davis projects. The Halo Oval Pendant by Paul Loebach, available through Matter in SoHo, is a good example of what makes them so interesting, Mr. Meyer said. “The scale is large,” he said, “but the actual light source is delicate and small” — something might not be obvious if you see it online.
两人还是布鲁克林灯具制造商Roll & Hill的粉丝。梅耶-戴维斯公司有好几个项目都采用了Roll & Hill的灯具。梅耶表示，保罗·勒巴赫(Paul Loebach)设计的“椭圆光晕吊灯”(Halo Oval Pendant)就是一个很好的例子，充分说明了此类灯具的趣味所在。“它的尺寸很大，”他说，“但是实际的光源却小巧而精致”——如果光看网站上的图片，这一特点可能不太明显。这款灯具可通过苏豪区的设计品店Matter购得。
Mr. Davis offered a more romantic perspective. “It’s a piece of jewelry that lights up,” he said. “Like a beautiful necklace.”
而戴维斯的说法更加浪漫。“这是一件发光的珠宝，”他说，“就像一条华美的项链。”