The Stonewall Inn, the Greenwich Village bar where resistance to a police raid touched off the modern gay rights movement, was made a New York City landmark on Tuesday, the first time a site has been named primarily because of its significance in lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender history.
同性恋人士曾在格林尼治村的石墙酒吧(The Stonewall Inn)反抗警察搜查，引发了现代同性恋权利运动。上周二，该酒吧被列入纽约市地标，这是首个主要因其在LGBT（女同、男同、双性恋及变性者的简称——译注）历史上的重要意义而入选的地标。
“New York City’s greatness lies in its inclusivity and diversity,” Meenakshi Srinivasan, chairwoman of the city’s Landmarks Preservation Commission, said before the unanimous vote. “The events at Stonewall were a turning point in the L.G.B.T. rights movement and in the history of our nation.”
“纽约市的伟大之处在于它的包容性和多样性，”纽约市地标保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)主席米纳克希·斯里尼瓦桑(Meenakshi Srinivasan)在不记名投票前说。投票获得一致通过。“在LGBT权利运动中和我们国家历史上，石墙事件是一个转折点。”
Patrons fought back against a police raid on the Stonewall Inn on June 28, 1969, and the street protests that followed for several days are credited with galvanizing gay activism in New York and globally. The rebellion is commemorated with annual gay pride parades in hundreds of cities.
1969年6月28日，石墙酒吧的顾客们反抗警察搜查，之后几天的街头抗议被认为激发了纽约和全球的同性恋运动。为了纪念这次反抗，有几百个城市每年都在这一天举行同性恋自豪游行。
“Few sites anywhere in New York have the international resonance of Stonewall,” said Andrew Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation.
“纽约几乎没有哪个地方像石墙酒吧这样具有国际反响，”格林尼治村历史保护协会(Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation)的执行理事安德鲁·伯曼(Andrew Berman)说。
The vote came after a public hearing in which every speaker supported the landmark designation.
投票在一个公开听证会后举行。听证会上的所有发言人都支持将它列入地标。
“There are few locations that can be cited as the birthplace of a global movement,” said Councilman Corey Johnson, a Democrat whose district includes the Stonewall. “One such location is the Stonewall Inn.”
“能被称为一个全球运动发源地的地方少之又少，”市议会议员科里·约翰逊(Corey Johnson)说。他是民主党人，石墙酒吧在他的辖区内。“石墙酒吧就是这样一个地方。”
The building’s owners, Duell L.L.C., did not speak at the hearing. Officials with the company did not immediately return a call seeking comment.
这幢建筑的所有者Duell L.L.C.公司没有在听证会上发言。该公司的高层没有立即回复要求评论的电话。
The Real Estate Board of New York said it supported the landmark designation because the Stonewall “is clearly recognized in New York City and around the world as the birthplace of the L.G.B.T. rights movement.”
纽约房地产委员会(The Real Estate Board of New York)称，它支持将石墙酒吧列入纽约地标，因为它“是LGBT权利运动的发源地，这显然得到了纽约市和全世界的公认”。
The designation covers two adjoining two-story buildings that together housed a gay bar starting in 1967.
地标包括邻接的两幢两层建筑。从1967年起，这两幢建筑是一个同性恋酒吧的所在地。
One of the buildings, at 51 Christopher Street, is home to the current Stonewall Inn, which remains a gathering place for gay New Yorkers. The brick and stucco facades of the two structures, originally built as stables in the 1840s, have essentially been unchanged since 1969.
目前的石墙酒吧位于其中一幢建筑内，克里斯托弗街(Christopher Street)51号，仍是纽约同性恋人士的聚集地。这两幢建筑始建于19世纪40年代，最初是马厩，它的砖石灰泥正面从1969年起基本上没有变化。
The Stonewall is not architecturally distinguished and would not earn landmark status on aesthetic grounds, several speakers noted.
有几位发言人指出，从建筑角度看，石墙酒吧不是很独特，在审美上不会获得地标的地位。
The Stonewall was already part of the city-designated Greenwich Village Historic District, and it was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999. But speakers at the hearing said the individual city landmark designation was necessary to preserve the Stonewall and recognize its historic importance.
石墙酒吧本来就位于纽约市指定的格林尼治村历史区(Greenwich Village Historic District)；1999年，它入选《美国国家史迹名录》(National Register of Historic Places)。但是，听证会上的发言人们说，为了保护石墙酒吧，承认它的历史重要性，需要将它单独列为纽约市地标。
“It must be protected against rapacious developers who would destroy the history of this sacred place and all it represents,” Letitia James, the city’s public advocate, said.
“我们必须保护它免受贪婪的开发商的侵害，他们会毁掉这个神圣处所的历史以及它代表的一切，”纽约市公益维护专员莱蒂·詹姆斯(Letitia James)说。