A strange thing can happen to young couples in New York City. Just when it seems everything is going according to plan, they move in together.
在纽约生活的情侣们往往会遇上一件怪事。那就是，似乎一切不出意外的话，他们便会搬到一起住。
Love has something to do with it, of course. So do the challenges of New York real estate. With rents that can bring a checking account to its knees, living together can seem the only sensible option. But if the relationship goes sour in the middle of the lease, that decision can turn out to have been a wild gamble after all.
爱情与这件事脱不了干系，这是当然；而纽约市房地产的严峻形势，也与之息息相关。这里的房租，能让你的支票帐户直接跪倒。所以看起来，住在一起可能是唯一理性的选择。不过若是住到一半，两人的关系就变得急转直下，那么这个决定就更像是一次豪赌了。
Cassandra Seale and Mike Byhoff moved in together in 2010 after about a year of dating. He was 26 and worked at Gawker. She was his 24-year-old intern; they both seem a bit sheepish about the cliché.
卡珊德拉·西尔(Cassandra Seale)和迈克·拜霍夫(Mike Byhoff)约会了一年后，于2010年搬到了一起。拜霍夫那时候26岁，在Gawker网站（美国最有名的明星追踪网站之一——译注）工作。当年24岁的西尔是他手下的实习生。对于旧事重提，他俩都显得有些不好意思。
“He was in charge of training the interns,” Ms. Seale said, quickly adding, “but we didn’t start dating until after.”
“他当时负责培训实习生，”西尔说，她很快又加上一句，“但我们是后来才开始约会的。”
For months, the two spent cramped nights in Mr. Byhoff’s Lower East Side apartment, a three-bedroom shared with two friends and short on privacy, but seemingly a better bet than Ms. Seale’s rental in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
约会了好几个月，俩人还一直挤在拜霍夫的下东区(Lower East Side)公寓里过夜。那是一套三居室的房子，与两个朋友合租，没什么隐私，但比起西尔在贝德福德-斯泰弗森特(Bedford-Stuyvesant)租住的地方，似乎还是要好一些。
“She had always lived in not the best areas of Brooklyn,” Mr. Byhoff said. “She liked me, but a really big thing for her was she always wanted to live in Manhattan.”
“她总是住在布鲁克林不太好的区域，”拜霍夫说，“虽然她喜欢我，但真正重要的是，她一直想住到曼哈顿来。”
When his lease was up, it seemed only rational for them to get an apartment together in the neighborhood.
当他的租约到期后，在他们俩看来最合情理的事，就是一起在附近租套公寓。
In other parts of the country, sharing a living space is a sign that young couples have taken a turn for the serious, with both pairs of hands firmly on the steering wheel. But in New York, where people platonically share windowless rooms with strangers in a trade for subway access, cohabitation and commitment do not necessarily go hand in hand. Living together is often driven as much by practicality as romance. And when the relationship unravels, one or both parties have to walk away from an apartment as well as a lover. 
在美国的其它地方，情侣们如果开始同居，就标志着他们一起用双手紧握方向盘，把这段关系转入了实质性的阶段。但是在纽约这种地方，人们可以同陌生人“柏拉图式”地一起住在没有窗子的房间里，只是为了坐地铁方便。所以，合住与承诺就没有那么密切的联系了。同居往往既是出于浪漫，也是现实需要。而这段关系一旦瓦解，双方或者某一方就得和公寓分手，就像和情人分手一样。
In hindsight, Ms. Seale said that “part of the reason why the relationship accelerated was that he was in the Lower East Side and it was really convenient for me to stay there, like all the time.”
事后想一想，西尔说道，“这段关系之所以发展得飞快，部分原因是他住在下东区，那儿对我来说真的很方便，一直都是这样。”
But a year and a co-signed lease later, it became clear that somewhere along the path from Bed-Stuy to a one-bedroom on Norfolk and Delancey, the romance had made a quiet exit. Ms. Seale said Mr. Byhoff came home one evening and announced, without much fanfare, “I’m no longer attracted to you.”
但在约会一年、一起签下租住合同后不久，事情开始变得清晰：在从贝德福德(bed-stuy)通往位于诺福克(Norfolk)与地兰西(Delancey)的一套单卧室公寓的路上，这段浪漫关系找到了一个安静的出口。西尔说，拜霍夫有天晚上回到家，直截了当地对她宣布，“我对你已经没有吸引力了。”
With that, lovers became just roommates, with a hefty helping of history between them.
于是，情人变成了单纯的室友关系。两人之间的过往起了很大的作用。
Much has been said about romantic entanglement in an overconnected world, and how hard it is to get away from an ex in the Internet Age. But what if you’re actually living with that person, cheek by jowl? What if half of your bed belongs to a person who prefers that you sleep somewhere else?
人们总在谈论，当今这个联系无处不在的世界里的感情纠葛。尤其在互联网时代，想和前任老死不相往来，简直是难上加难。但是，如果你实际上还和那个人住在一起，抬头不见低头见会怎样？如果你的床，还有一半属于那个宁愿你睡在其它地方的人，又如何呢？
“It was definitely awkward,” Mr. Byhoff said. “It’s just like, you’re in the bed facing a different way. There is nothing else you can do.”
“那绝对非常尴尬，”拜霍夫说，“就像是，你们背对背睡在同一张床上，没有什么其它事情可做。”
They continued living together in what Ms. Seale described as a “weird purgatory” for a month before she moved out and he took over the lease.
他们俩在西尔所说的那个“怪异炼狱”中继续合住了一个月。然后，她搬了出去，而他一个人承担了全部房租。
During that time, said Ms. Seale, who was freelancing as a writer and acting, she would walk the dog they had bought together for eight hours a day, to avoid being in the apartment. And though she needed to see other people, to feel as though she was at least trying to move on, she took care to keep things civil.
西尔其时是一名写作和表演方向的自由职业者，她说自己在那段时间里宁可每天牵着两人一起买的小狗溜达8小时，好尽量避免待在公寓里。虽然她需要和其他人交往交往，以便感觉自己至少在努力走出旧恋情，但她也得小心翼翼地做得尽量得体。
“I came home once from hooking up with a friend of a friend,” she said, “and I remember coming home really early because I was like I don’t want him to know.”
“我有次和一个朋友的朋友约完会回家，”她说，“我一心惦记着要早点到家，因为就像是我想要瞒着他。”
Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot, a Harvard sociologist, is the author of “Exit: The Endings That Set Us Free.” She says people frequently assume that simply declaring the end of a relationship will make it so.
萨拉·劳伦斯-赖特福德(Sara Lawrence-Lightfoot)是哈佛大学的社会学家，也是《退出：让我们恢复自由的那些结局》(Exit: The Endings That Set Us Free)一书的作者。她说，人们常常以为只要宣布一段关系结束，就真的会让它结束。
“There often comes a moment in our lives with exits, where all the forces and sensations come together and you say, ‘I’m out of here,’ ” she said.
她说：“在我们的生活中，常常会出现某个退场的时刻，置身其中，你会感到所有的压力和知觉交汇在一处，然后你会说，‘我要离开了’。”
But hitting the road is not always easy when you’re stuck in a limbo of limited square footage. “These are protracted moves,” Dr. Lawrence-Lightfoot said, “and that makes this much, much harder.”
但是，当你困在一个几尺见方的囹圄当中，想要说走就走，并不总是那么容易的。“这些都是拖拖拉拉的行为，”劳伦斯-赖特福德博士说，“会让事情变得难上加难。”
New York’s real estate market was particularly unkind to Audrey Kovar and Chris Lambert. The two had lived together in a town house in Portland, Ore., before relocating a few years ago to a railroad-style 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, for which the rent was $1,600 a month.
纽约的房地产市场对于奥德丽·柯伐(Audrey Kovar)和克里斯·朗伯特(Chris Lambert)尤为苛刻。他们俩本来住在俄勒冈州波特兰市(Portland, Ore.)的一栋联排别墅里，几年前搬到了布鲁克林绿点区(Greenpoint, Brooklyn)的一套1000平方英尺（约93平方米）的单卧室狭长公寓中，房租是每个月1600美元（约合人民币9816元）。
Before their yearlong lease was up, they were at each other’s throats.
一年租约还没结束，两人的关系就已经剑拔弩张了。
People who come to New York together, even when they’re initially holding hands in common purpose, often find that the city and its demands can drive a wedge into what had been a solid partnership. It is, after all, a place where much is given and much is asked.
一起来到纽约的人，即使之前已经有了“执子之手”的共同意愿，最后还是常常会发现，这座城市及它的需求能将曾经固若金汤的伴侣关系也打开一个缺口。毕竟，这是一个给予无穷也索求无度的地方。
Mr. Lambert, for his part, had a 9-to-5 job in construction, and Ms. Kovar was working the night shift at the Meatball Shop in the East Village.
朗伯特在建筑行业朝九晚五地上班，而柯伐在东村的“肉球餐厅(Meatball Shop)”上夜班。
To relax after work, Mr. Lambert, now 27, said, he liked to have a couple of beers with friends. Ms. Kovar, 24, said it went beyond that. When she returned from waiting tables at 4 a.m., she said, he was rarely at home.
为了工作之后放松一下，现年27岁的朗伯特说，他喜欢和朋友去喝上一两瓶啤酒。而24岁的柯伐则说，事情远非如此。她凌晨4点从餐厅下班回家时，她说，他都很少在家。
“It was too small an apartment, and we were living an unhealthy lifestyle because we didn’t like each other as much as we used to,” Ms. Kovar explained. She moved out in spring 2011, hoping that putting four miles between them might ease tensions.
“这套公寓太小了，而且我们都过着一种不健康的生活方式，因为我们都不像过去那样喜欢彼此了，”柯伐解释道。2011年春天，她搬了出去，希望相隔4英里（约6.4公里）的距离，可以让两人间的紧张关系得到缓和。
But after a few months of living with a friend on the Lower East Side, “things fell through,” Ms. Kovar said. “As in, the ceiling collapsed.”
但是，和一个朋友在下东区生活了几个月后，“希望落空了，”柯伐说，“就像天花板塌了下来。”
That sent Ms. Kovar back to Greenpoint, where she and Mr. Lambert tried again to make cohabitation work. It didn’t, and Ms. Kovar took a leave of absence from her job at the Meatball Shop and moved back to her family home in Philadelphia.
就这样，柯伐又回到了绿点区，她和朗伯特再次尝试好好住在一起。但没有用，于是柯伐辞掉了餐馆的工作，搬回了她在费城的老家。
“She was all over the place, she would come back for two or three months and then leave me again,” Mr. Lambert said. “I was like: ‘What is going on? Where is this going? Are you coming back?’ ”
“她对这里念念不忘，还会回来住上两、三个月，然后又会离开我，”朗伯特说，“而我的感觉就像：‘什么情况？这算什么意思？你是要回来吗？’”
Ms. Kovar did return to New York, determined to stay out of her ex’s apartment. But with few contacts in the city, she was at a loss. So Mr. Lambert stepped in again, this time to offer up a friend who needed a body to fill a slot in a three-bedroom.
柯伐的确又回到了纽约，她不打算住在前男友的公寓里。但她在这里也没什么熟人，所以非常失落。于是，朗伯特又介入进来。这次他给她介绍了一个朋友，那人住的三居室公寓刚好有个空缺需要填补。
“I never met this girl before, but we totally hit it off,” Ms. Kovar said, describing the roommate. Then she found out how Mr. Lambert knew the woman: “They had a night together.”
“我以前从没见过这个女孩，但我们相处得非常好，”柯伐形容室友时说。后来她才发现，朗伯特是怎样认识这个女人的：“他们睡过一个晚上。”
The revelation was a reminder that, though it’s one of the largest cities in the world, New York can still be a very small town. Given that she still had some feelings for Mr. Lambert, Ms. Kovar was initially squeamish. But she shrugged the feeling off, because the prospect of sifting through the offerings on Craigslist was too dreadful.
这一发现提醒人们，尽管纽约是世界上最大的城市之一，它仍可能像个小镇一样。考虑到她对朗伯特还有点感觉，柯伐起初觉得恶心。但她很快就甩开了这种感觉，因为在Craigslist（一个大型免费分类广告网站——译注）上筛选信息实在太恐怖了。
Ivana Tagliamonte, an agent with Halstead Property, says she has seen so many breakups that they almost seem a rite of passage for young New Yorkers. “It’s a life cycle for a lot of young couples in their early 20s,” she said. “They move in together, sign a lease together, and then the relationship doesn’t work out.”
房地产公司Halstead Property的经纪人伊万娜·塔利亚蒙特(Ivana Tagliamonte)说，这样的分手故事她已经见得太多，以至于分手看似就要成为年轻“纽约客”们获得这一身份的必经仪式了。“对于很多20岁出头的年轻情侣来说，这就是一个生命周期，”她说，“他们搬到一起，共同签下租约，然后这段关系就不行了。”
Nor is it surprising that when the young and in lease fall out of love, shared real estate sometimes becomes a weapon. Ms. Tagliamonte said the worst case she had dealt with involved a couple who were sharing a studio for which only the woman had signed the lease.
合租的年轻人分手之后，他们分担的住房有时候会变成一种武器，这也没什么好惊讶的。塔利亚蒙特说，她所处理过的最糟糕的一次情况是，一对情侣一起租了个开放式整间公寓，但只有女方签了合同。
Toward the end of the lease, the rent payments were so far behind that Ms. Tagliamonte, on behalf of the landlord, went to evict the couple. But when she got there, she noticed that the closets contained only men’s clothing. She realized that despite being the leaseholder, the girlfriend had moved out.
租约快到期了，但租金拖了很久还没交，于是塔利亚蒙特不得不代表房东去驱逐这对房客。可是到了那儿她才发现，衣柜里只有男人的衣服。她意识到他的女朋友尽管是签约的人，但已经搬走了。
Ms. Tagliamonte tracked down the woman, who had no idea that her credit was being ruined by an ex who was squatting in an apartment for which she was legally responsible.
塔利亚蒙特找到了这个女人，她根本不知道自己的信用已经被前任给毁了。而她的前任依然霸占着由她承担法律责任的那套公寓。
The young woman immediately called her former boyfriend, who within 24 hours paid the outstanding $9,000 in full. “The threat of a lawsuit and going to court was obviously not as threatening as getting an angry call from an ex-girlfriend,” Ms. Tagliamonte said.
这名年轻女士立刻给前男友打了电话，那人在24小时之内就全额支付了拖欠的9000美元（约合人民币55214元）租金。“一纸法律文书和即将对簿公堂的威胁，显然敌不过前女友一个大发雷霆的电话，”塔利亚蒙特说。
In some cases, the breakup itself can be less traumatic than the months that precede it, as two people who share almost everything begin to lose a sense of why, exactly, they’re tied together at all.
有时候，分手的那一刻，比分手之前几个月所带来的创伤更小，因为这两个几乎分享着一切的人开始变得迷茫，不明白他们究竟为何要彼此束缚在一起。
Dr. Lawrence-Lightfoot, the sociologist, says part of what makes it so hard to detach completely is the codependence that comes with putting two peas into a very tiny pod.
社会学家劳伦斯-赖特福德博士说，让彻底分离变得如此困难的原因，部分在于共同生活在一个“小窝”里所产生的相互依赖感。
“Particularly in these small physical spaces of New York,” she said, young couples may not realize just “how much was lost of their own individual identity” until they move out.
“尤其是在纽约的这些‘蜗居’中，”她说，年轻的情侣们可能直到搬出去后才会意识到，“他们已经失去了多少自我和个性”。
That is the story of Peter Halupka and Erin Nelson, who began dating a few years ago when they were both 19 and studying art — she at Cooper Union in New York City, and he at Harold Washington College in Chicago.
彼得·哈鲁普卡(Peter Halupka)与伊尔琳·纳尔逊(Erin Nelson)的故事就是这样。他们几年前开始约会，那时候，他们俩都是19岁，正在学习艺术——她在纽约市的库珀联合学院(Cooper Union)，而他在芝加哥的哈罗德华盛顿学院(Harold Washington College)。
When he moved to New York, “it wasn’t even a question of whether we would live together,” Ms. Nelson said. They were in love, and “strapped for cash.”
他们搬到纽约时，“是否应该住在一起，根本不是个还需考虑的问题，”纳尔逊说。他们正相爱，而且当时“囊中羞涩”。
They spent a year in an apartment in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Then, in 2011, they moved to Bushwick, to a loft that they shared with three friends.
他们在布鲁克林日落公园(Sunset Park)的一套公寓住了一年。然后，2011年，他们搬到了布什维克(Bushwick)的一套loft公寓中，与三个朋友合租。
Soon enough, a lurking feeling — part claustrophobia, part genuine disconnect — sneaked up on them. Mr. Halupka chalked it up to living on top of one another.
可很快，一种潜伏的感觉悄悄靠近了他们，这种感觉一半是幽闭恐惧症，而另一半是真实的疏离感。哈鲁普卡将其归咎于挤在一起过日子。
“For God’s sake,” he said, “it’s already hard to live with people as is, but when you’re trying to balance a relationship as well, dishes not washed change into something else. We still think about how things would have been different if we wouldn’t have lived together.”
“看在上帝的份儿上，”他说，“像这样和别人一起生活已经很艰难了；但是当你还要维持一段恋爱关系的时候，连没洗的盘子也会小事化大。我们仍然在想，如果当初我们没有住在一起，事情可能就大不一样了。”
But Ms. Nelson pointed to deeper reasons that live-in relationships in New York don’t always last. “When you start dating someone when you’re 19,” she said, it’s unlikely “that you would develop, three years later, into having the same needs.”
但是纳尔逊指出了更深刻的原因，说明同居关系在纽约不会长久。“当你19岁开始和一个人约会时，”她说，“你们三年后会对生活有同样的需求”是不太可能的。
She cited many friends she had seen follow the same path. “There are kind of these parallel narratives of people our age doing this,” she said, “and it kind of all seems to end the same. Our generation does a really good job of assuming that they can beat the odds.”
她举了很多朋友的例子，她目睹他们都走上了同样的道路。“说到我们这一代人做这件事，情况都大同小异，”她说，“而结果看起来也几乎都一样。我们这代人，在幻想自己可以摆脱共性、做到与众不同这件事上，表现得真是出色。”
She and Mr. Halupka split before their lease was up, but were able to find replacement tenants in about 10 days.
租约还没到期，她就与哈鲁普卡分手了。但仅过了10天左右就找到了可以代替他们的租客。
“It was another young couple,” Ms. Nelson said.
“也是一对年轻情侣。”纳尔逊说。
They probably loved the place. Whether they loved each other enough to make a go of living there together, only time — and the vagaries of New York real estate — will tell.
他们或许是喜欢这地方。但他们能否矢志不渝地共同生活在那儿，就只有时间——还有变幻莫测的纽约房地产市场——才能告诉你了。