Exhilarated by the Supreme Court’s endorsement of same-sex marriage, gay rights leaders have turned their sights to what they see as the next big battle: obtaining federal, state and local legal protections in employment, housing, commerce and other arenas, just like those barring discrimination based on race, religion, sex and national origin.
因为联邦最高法院对同性婚姻的支持而倍受鼓舞的同性恋权益活动领袖正将视线转向他们眼中的下一场大仗：在就业、住房和商务等领域获得联邦、州及地方法规的保护，从而与禁止种族、宗教、性别及国家出身歧视的法律条文齐平。
The proposals pit advocates against many of the same religious conservatives who opposed legalizing same-sex marriage, and who now see the protection of what they call religious liberty as their most urgent task. These opponents argue that antidiscrimination laws will inevitably be used to force religious people and institutions to violate their beliefs, whether by providing services for same-sex weddings or by employing gay men and lesbians in church-related jobs.
这些提议将维权人士与宗教保守派对立起来。此类保守派当中，许多与反对同性婚姻合法化的人士重合，而他们现在将保护自己口中的宗教自由视为当务之急。这些反对者辩称，反歧视法规必将用来迫使信徒和宗教机构违背自身的信仰，无论是为同性婚礼提供服务，还是雇佣同性恋者从事与教会有关的工作。
Nationally, antidiscrimination laws for gay people are a patchwork with major geographic inequities, said Brad Sears, executive director of the Williams Institute at the School of Law of the University of California, Los Angeles. “Those who don’t live on the two coasts or in the Northeast have been left behind in terms of legal protection,” he said.
加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)法学院威廉斯研究所(Williams Institute at the School of Law)的执行主管布拉德·希尔斯(Brad Sears)表示，从全国来看，针对同性恋者的反歧视法规是一些零零碎碎的条文，存在重大的地域性不公。“在法律保护方面，那些没有生活在东西海岸或者东北部的人一直被遗忘了，”他说。
At least 22 states bar discrimination based on sexual orientation, and most of them also offer protections to transgender people.
美国至少有22个州禁止基于性取向的歧视，其中大多数州还为跨性别人士提供了保护。
Tennessee is one of the majority of states that do not bar such discrimination. There, in East Nashville, Tiffany Cannon and Lauren Horbal thought they had found the perfect house to share with a friend, and the landlord seemed ready to rent when they applied in April.
然而，超过半数的州并没有禁止此类歧视，其中包括田纳西。在纳什维尔东区，蒂法尼·坎农(Tiffany Cannon)和劳伦·霍巴利(Lauren Horbal)曾经以为，她们找到了可以与朋友合租的一栋完美房屋，而且她们在4月份提出申请时，房东还表现得挺乐意。
Then he called them to ask what their relationship with each other was, Ms. Horbal, 26, recalled.
然而，26岁的霍巴利回忆道，后来房东打来电话询问她俩之间的关系。
She said that when the landlord learned that she and Ms. Cannon, 25, were partners, he said, “I’m not comfortable with that.” He refused to process their application, even after they offered to raise their rent by $150, to $700 a month, Ms. Horbal said.
她表示，当房东得知自己和25岁的坎农是一对情侣时，他说，“这让我感到不舒服。”霍巴利称，房东拒绝接受她们的申请，就算她们主动提出增加150美元（约合930元人民币）的租金，愿意每个月支付700美元。
The women, both restaurant workers, are still looking for a place to live.
两人都是餐厅工作人员，目前还在寻找住处。
In many states, some local governments have antidiscrimination laws, but they are often weak or poorly enforced, said Ruth Colker, an expert on discrimination law at Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University.
俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)莫里兹法学院(Moritz College of Law)的反歧视法专家露丝·考克(Ruth Colker)表示，在很多州，部分地方政府设有反歧视法，但这些法规往往较为薄弱，执行不力。
“Typically, the penalty for violating a city ordinance is more akin to a traffic violation,” she said. “State-level penalties can be much more significant.”
“通常，违反城市条例遭受的处罚更类似于交通违规适用的处罚，”她说。“州级别的处罚会严重得多。”
As they push for more state and local safeguards, rights advocates are also starting a long-term campaign for a broad federal shield that would give sexual orientation and gender identity protected status under the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
在争取获得州和地方提供的更多保护的同时，维权人士还发起了一项长期运动，以获得广泛的联邦保护，让性取向与性别认同享有受1964年《民权法案》(Civil Rights Act of 1964)保护的地位。
The goal is to achieve overlapping local, state and federal laws, an approach that has proved effective in curbing other kinds of discrimination, said Sarah Warbelow, legal director at the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights advocacy group. Visible laws can not only permit lawsuits, she said, but also deter employers and others from biased behavior.
同性恋权益倡导团体“人权运动”组织(Human Rights Campaign)的法务主管萨拉·瓦尔贝洛(Sarah Warbelow)表示，他们的目标是促使地方、州及联邦出台相互照应的法规，因为事实证明，这种办法在遏制其他类型的歧视方面行之有效。她称，法律的明文规定不仅能够为诉讼提供依据，还能阻止雇主和其他人实施具有偏见的行为。
Although a majority of states lack such protections, federal orders and court decisions, especially in employment, are gradually offering more safeguards.
虽然大多数的州缺少此类保护，但联邦法令和法院判例，特别是有关就业方面的那些，正逐渐为同性恋人群提供越来越多的保护。
With executive orders last year, President Obama barred discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity by federal agencies and federal contractors, including companies employing about one in five American workers, Mr. Sears said.
希尔斯表示，由于奥巴马总统去年签署的几项行政命令，联邦机构及联邦承包商不得基于性取向和性别认同采取歧视行为，而此类企业雇佣的员工人数占到了全美劳动者的五分之一。
At the same time, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, charged with enforcing federal law in the workplace, has determined that discrimination against gay men, lesbians and transgender people amounts to illegal sex discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, and it is bringing or endorsing lawsuits under that provision.
与此同时，负责在工作场所执行联邦法规的公平就业机会委员会(Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)判定，针对男女同性恋与跨性别人士的歧视行为相当于违反1964年《民权法案》第七条的性别歧视行为。
That application of existing law is still being tested in court and is more established for transgender workers than for gay and lesbian workers. In the past two years, the agency has successfully pursued 223 cases involving gay or transgender people who faced workplace harassment or other discrimination, gaining settlements or court orders, said Chai R. Feldblum, one of the agency’s five commissioners.
在司法实践当中，如何适用现有法规仍处于探索阶段，而且，与同性恋人士相比，相关法规在涉及跨性别员工的案件中得到了更好的运用。公平就业机会委员会的五名委员之一的沙伊·R·费尔德布卢姆(Chai R. Feldblum)表示，在过去两年里，该机构成功追查223起涉及同性恋或跨性别人士遭受职场骚扰等歧视行为的案件，最终达成了和解，或是获得了法院判令。
Civil rights groups worked for years for an employment antidiscrimination act, an effort that was blocked by House Republicans and collapsed this year over discord about religious exemptions. Buoyed by the rapid advance of same-sex marriage, these groups are now determined to seek a far wider law.
民权组织为反就业歧视法奔走多年，但此番努力遭到把持众议院的共和党人的阻碍，并在今年因为宗教豁免权问题上的分歧而以失败告终。在同性婚姻获得快速推进的鼓舞下，这些团体现在下决心要寻求制定一部覆盖范围广泛得多的法律。
“I think there’s a very strong consensus now among advocacy groups that we need a broader bill that puts discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity on the same footing as race, religion and gender,” said Shannon P. Minter, legal director at the National Center for Lesbian Rights.
全国女同性恋权益中心(National Center for Lesbian Rights)的法务主管香农·P·明特(Shannon P. Minter)表示，“我认为，倡导团体现在达成了强烈的共识：我们需要一部更加广泛的法案，给予基于性取向和性别认同的歧视与种族、宗教及性别歧视同样的法律地位。”
“No court decision could accomplish all of that,” Mr. Minter said.
明特说，“没有哪项法院裁决能够做到这一切。”
Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said he planned to introduce a bill within the next few months to add protections for gays and transgender people to the Civil Rights Act.
来自俄勒冈州的民主党联邦参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)表示，他计划在未来几个月内提出一项议案，为《民权法案》添加保护同性恋及跨性别人士的内容。
“People are going to realize that you can get married in the morning and be fired from your job or refused entry to a restaurant in the afternoon,” Mr. Merkley said. “That is unacceptable.”
“人们会意识到，你可能上午结了婚，下午就会被开除或被拒绝进入餐厅，”默克利说。“这是令人无法接受的。”
But the effort will take years, he said, because it appears unlikely that Republican committee heads in Congress will advance such a bill.
但他表示，这番努力需要多年的时间，因为占据国会两院各委员会主席职位的共和党人似乎不大可能推进这样一部议案。
In the emerging state-by-state battles for antidiscrimination laws, the strongest opposition has come from conservative religious groups that have been alarmed by a few well-publicized cases, like that of a florist in Washington State who was fined for refusing to provide flowers for a same-sex wedding.
以州为单位的反歧视法斗争声势渐长，其中最强烈的反对声音来自保守派宗教团体。几桩众所周知的案件让它们心生警惕，比如华盛顿州的一名花商因为拒绝向同性婚礼提供鲜花而被处于罚金。
“We’ve got good reason to be concerned about these laws, because they’ve been found to be coercive where they’ve been enacted,” said Greg Scott, vice president of communications at Alliance Defending Freedom, a Christian legal group.
“我们有充足的理由对这些法规感到担忧，因为一些相关的案件说明它们的执行是胁迫性的，”基督教法律团体“捍卫自由联盟”(Alliance Defending Freedom)负责通讯联络事宜的副主席格雷格·斯科特(Greg Scott)说。
Russell Moore, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, said that it was wrong to equate religious objections to homosexual behavior with racism, and that proposed antidiscrimination laws could “do more harm than good.”
美南浸信会道德与宗教自由委员会(Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention)会长罗素·摩尔(Russell Moore)则表示，同等对待针对同性恋行为的宗教异议和种族歧视是错误的，而目前提出的反歧视法规“弊大于利”。
“Some have suggested that we work out a compromise, addressing housing and employment discrimination and protecting religious freedom for those who dissent from the ideas of the sexual revolution,” he said. “But I have yet to see any proposal that would do both of those things well.”
“一些人建议我们做出妥协，在应对住房和就业歧视问题的同时，保护不认同性革命理念的那些人的宗教自由，”他说。“但我还没有看到在这两方面都处理得当的提议。”
There is some common ground. For example, under the Civil Rights Act, religious organizations have the right to give preference in hiring to those of their faith, Ms. Warbelow of the Human Rights Campaign noted. In housing, federal rules exempt owner-occupied rentals with four or fewer units from discrimination provisions.
双方其实存在达成共识的一些空间。例如，“人权运动”组织的瓦尔贝洛指出， 根据《民权法案》，宗教团体有权优先聘用信仰相同的人员。在住房问题上，拥有不到五个出租单位的自住型房东可以不受联邦反歧视法规的限制。
“We wouldn’t expect these things to change,” Ms. Warbelow said. “We really want L.G.B.T. people to be protected the same as those in other protected categories.”
“我们不会期待这些事情会有所改变，”瓦尔贝洛说。“但我们的确希望LGBT（男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别者的简称——译注）群体能获得与其他受保护人群一样的待遇。”
But some disagreements, especially involving private businesses, may be unbridgeable. The major gay and civil rights groups are united in their opposition to “religious liberty” bills, a priority of conservative Christian advocates, which would allow religious vendors to refuse to serve gay couples or wedding celebrations.
不过，双方的一些分歧，特别是涉及私人企业的时候，可能是不可逾越的。主要的同性恋及民权团体一致反对保守派基督教倡导人士大力推进的“宗教自由”法案。这些法案将允许信仰宗教的卖主拒绝为同性伴侣或婚礼庆典提供服务。