A small group of gay rights activists gathered outside the Russian Embassy in Beijing on Valentine’s Day to protest Russia’s antigay laws.
情人节当天，一小群同性恋维权人士在俄罗斯驻北京大使馆门前聚集，抗议俄罗斯的反同性恋法规。
Behind a rainbow banner that read “To Russia with Love,” a dozen activists cheered as three couples puckered up and kissed in front of a countdown clock for the Sochi Winter Olympics outside the embassy’s tall walls.
大使馆的高墙外有一个倒计时大钟在为索契冬奥会倒计时，三对情侣在这个大钟前接吻，十多名活动人士则在一条写有“以爱致俄罗斯”(To Russia with Love)的彩虹色横幅后面欢呼。
“Love is better than hate,” said Xu Bin, director of Common Language, a gay rights advocacy group. Mr. Xu said the protest was a meaningful way to celebrate Valentine’s Day and China’s traditional Lantern Festival, which also fell on Feb. 14 this year.
“爱比恨好，”同性恋权益倡导组织同语(Common Language)的负责人徐玢说。徐玢表示，这次抗议是庆祝情人节和中国传统节日元宵节的一种有意义的方式。今年的元宵节刚好也是2月14日。
Last year, Russia passed controversial legislation that bans “propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations” to minors and imposes fines on the public display of homosexuality and gay pride rallies.
去年，俄罗斯通过了争议性的法律，禁止向青少年进行“关于非传统性关系的宣传”，并要求对公开展示同性恋的行为及同性恋游行处以罚金。
“Putin has a very bad attitude towards gays, who have to live with the threat of violence,” said Xiao Tie, executive director of the Beijing Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center, referring to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. “Russia still needs some education on diversity. That is the reason for today’s advocacy mission.”
“普京对待同性恋的态度非常糟糕，同性恋被迫忍受暴力威胁，”提到俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)时，北京同志中心(Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Center)执行主任小铁说。“俄罗斯仍然需要一些有关多元化的教育。这就是我们今天开展宣传的原因。”
While antigay violence is far less common in China than in Russia and there is less opposition from traditional religion, gays in China still feel that their government is unwilling to protect their rights, said Fan Popo, a veteran activist in Beijing and a board member of the center.
北京资深活动人士、同志中心理事会成员范坡坡表示，中国的反同性恋暴力比俄罗斯稀少得多，传统宗教对同性恋的反对也比较少，尽管如此，中国的同性恋者仍然觉得，中国政府不愿保护他们的权利。
“The Chinese government largely pretends that gays don’t exist and routinely avoids gay issues, leaving no room for any discussion or expression,” said Mr. Fan. “It is a topic that is banned from being brought to the table.”
“中国政府在很大程度上假装同性恋不存在，一贯回避同性恋问题，没给讨论或表达留下任何余地，”范坡坡说。“这是个禁止摆上台面的话题。”