ROME — Six years ago, Andrea Rubera married his partner in Canada, where the couple later became parents of three young children. But when they returned to their native Italy, a transformation occurred. Rubera suddenly became a single man, and his legally recognized husband in Canada became his single male roommate in Italy. Italian law also divided custody of their children.
罗马——六年前，安德烈·鲁贝拉(Andrea Rubera)在加拿大与其伴侣结婚，两人养育了三个年幼的孩子。但是，当他们回到自己的祖国意大利后，这个家庭的结构发生了改变。鲁贝拉突然成了单身汉，他在加拿大受到法律认可的丈夫，在意大利却成了他的单身男性室友。意大利的法律还迫使他们对子女监护权进行了分割。
The family’s journey brought to life the wide divide between Italy and most of the rest of the Western world on civil rights for homosexuals. Like Canada, nearly every Western country has legalized same-sex marriage or some form of civil union for gays and lesbians. Italy is the outlier, partly because of the lingering influence of the Roman Catholic Church.
这个家庭的遭遇活生生地呈现出意大利和大多数西方国家在对待同性婚姻上的巨大差异。像加拿大一样，几乎所有西方国家都已将同性婚姻合法化，或允许男同性恋和女同性恋以某种形式结成同性配偶。意大利之所以例外，部分原因在于这里至今受到罗马天主教的影响。
But on Thursday, following months of delays and political jousting, the Italian Senate will begin voting on legislation to legalize civil unions, several years after a similar effort failed. The outcome remains uncertain, as lawmakers confront an issue that has challenged traditional social mores, jumbled ideological lines and is being debated as the politics of the Catholic Church are in upheaval.
不过，经过数月的拖延和政治角力之后，意大利参议院将于本周四开始就一项同性婚姻合法化法案进行投票。几年前曾有一项类似的法案没能获得通过。这次投票的结果尚不确定，因为立法者面对是一项挑战传统社会习俗、混淆意识形态边界的议题，也因为天主教会正处在政治动荡中。
“Certainly, the fact that it was not going to be an easy vote was something we were aware of,” said Monica Cirinnà, the senator sponsoring the legislation.
“我们当然很清楚，这个投票不容易，”这项法案的倡议者莫妮卡·奇林纳(Monica Cirinnà)参议员说。
The legislation initially seemed headed for a fairly smooth passage. Many Italian cities, including Rome, already offer civil union certifications, though they are mostly symbolic.
最初，这项法案看起来似乎可以比较顺利地通过。包括罗马在内的很多意大利城市已经开始给同性恋者提供婚姻证明，尽管大多数是象征性的。
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi endorsed the national legislation and predicted that it would be passed in 2015. Some opposition political leaders, including former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, suggested they would support it. But any such certainty has since dissolved; Mr. Berlusconi has softened his position by saying lawmakers in his center-right party Forza Italia should vote their conscience.
意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)支持这项全国法案，还预测它将在2015年内获得通过。包括前总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)在内的一些反对派政治领导人也暗示会支持该法案。但是这种确定性后来消失；贝卢斯科尼弱化了自己的立场，表示他领导的中右翼政党意大利力量党(Forza Italia)的议员应该秉着自己的良心投票。
Mr. Renzi has maintained his support yet also acknowledged that civil unions are a delicate issue that divides his own center-left Democratic Party and also presents a challenge for his governing coalition, since the coalition’s minority partner is the conservative New Center Right party, which largely opposes the bill.
伦齐一直支持该法案，不过他也承认，同性婚姻是一个敏感的议题，他领导的中左翼政党社会民主党(Democratic Party)内部对此意见不一致。对于他的执政联盟而言，这个法案也是个挑战，因为该联盟的少数派盟友是保守的新中右翼政党(New Center Right)，它的成员大多反对该议案。
“We are the only European country without a norm on civil unions and we want to fill the gap,” Mr. Renzi said last week, predicting passage. “I only hope that the debate, in the next days, will stay serious and focused on the merits, without becoming an ideological clash.”
“我们是唯一一个没有为同性婚姻建立规范的欧洲国家，我们想填补这个空白，”伦齐上周说道，他预测这项法案将获得通过。“我只希望，接下来几天的辩论可以保持严肃的态度，把重点放在事实依据上，不要变成意识形态的斗争。”
But an ideological clash is probably unavoidable. Advocates and critics of the legislation are planning competing rallies in the coming days. Critics have attacked the bill on different grounds, with some arguing it would violate the Italian Constitution by equating civil unions to marriage, while others have opposed a so-called stepchild adoption provision. This allows a gay couple to adopt a child as long as one of the partners is the biological parent of the child.
但意识形态冲突可能无法避免。该法案的支持者和批评者都计划在未来几天展开争斗。批评者们基于各种不同的理由对这项法案进行抨击，有些指出它让同性恋拥有同样的婚姻权，违反意大利宪法，另一些则反对其中的继子女领养条款，该条款允许同性伴侣领养孩子，条件是他们中有一方是这个孩子的生父或生母。
Advocates of the provision say it would remedy glaring legal problems facing many gay couples, especially those who became parents through surrogacy. Italian law now only recognizes the spouse with biological ties to a child as a legal parent. This also means that the children have no legal rights to property and other benefits from the other parent.
支持这一条款的人士表示，它可以弥补许多同性恋夫妇面临的一些刺眼的法律问题，尤其是那些通过找人代孕成为父母的同性夫妇。意大利法律现在只承认生身父母是孩子法律上的父母。这意味着孩子不能从父母中没有血缘关系的一方那里继承财产或其他权益。
“There are major injustices coming from this, all toward the kids,” Mr. Rubera said. “We are dreaming to be recognized as we are — as a family.”
“这会产生很大的不公正，都是针对孩子的，”鲁贝拉说。“我们梦想着自己——作为一个家庭，可以获得法律上的认可。”
Critics contend that the stepchild adoption provision is a “Trojan horse” that could undermine Italy’s prohibition of surrogacy. Gay rights advocates dispute this argument, noting that the majority of couples who leave Italy to pursue surrogacy are heterosexual.
批评者称，继子女领养条款是“特洛伊木马”，可能会破坏意大利的代孕禁令。同性权利倡导人士反对这种说法，他们指出大多数去意大利境外寻求代孕者的夫妇都是异性夫妇。
Yet the issue seems to have weakened public support for civil unions. Different polls show that support for same-sex civil unions has dropped to 46 percent in January, compared with 67 percent last May. A poll conducted in January by Ipr, an independent polling and marketing firm, also found that only 15 percent of respondents supported stepchild adoption for gay couples.
但这个问题似乎减弱了外界对同性婚姻的公开支持。多项民意调查显示，公众对同性婚姻的支持率已经从去年5月的67%，降到了今年1月的46%。独立民调和营销公司Ipr今年1月进行的一项民意调查还发现，只有15%的受访者对同性伴侣继子女领养条款表示支持。
Dr. Gian Luigi Gigli, a physician and a member of the Italian lower house who is against the legislation, said many opponents do not want to discriminate against homosexuals but found the bill too far-reaching, especially on the stepchild adoption provision.
内科医生、反对该法的意大利下院议员吉安·路易吉·吉利(Gian Luigi Gigli)表示，很多反对者不想歧视同性恋，但觉得该法案的影响太深远，特别是对继子女收养条款。
“There is an increasing opposition,” Dr. Gigli said.
“反对的人越来越多，”吉利说。
In the past, the Catholic Church would probably have played a major role in opposing the legislation (as happened in France, where Catholic groups tried in vain to prevent passage of the country’s same-sex marriage law in 2013). But in promoting a more merciful, tolerant tone, Pope Francis has discouraged bishops around the world from diving into culture war issues that have alienated some faithful from the church.
过去，天主教会可能会在反对该立法的过程中发挥重要作用。（就像在法国一样。2013年，法国天主教团体试图阻止同性婚姻法通过，但最终无果。）但是，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)倡导一种更仁慈、更宽容的风气，不鼓励世界各地的主教参与到文化战争问题之中。这类问题已导致部分信徒与教会疏远。
This has created a divide within the Italian Episcopal Conference as Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco, president of the conference, has encouraged Catholics to join opponents of the legislation at a coming “Family Day” rally. Supporters of the bill held rallies across Italy over the weekend. Yet the conference’s secretary-general, Msgr. Nunzio Galantino — who was appointed directly by Francis — has been more cautious in directly aligning the church in such a contentious fight.
这在意大利主教会议(Italian Bishops Conference)中造成了分歧，因为会议主席安热洛·巴尼亚斯科(Angelo Bagnasco)红衣主教鼓励天主教徒参加反对者在“家庭日”(Family Day)举行的集会。周末，该法案的支持者在意大利各地举行了集会。但由方济各直接任命的主教会议秘书长农西奥·加兰蒂诺(Nunzio Galantino)主教，对教会在这种充斥争议的对抗中直接采纳一方立场的做法表现得比较谨慎。
In an interview, Monsignor Galantino said he recognized that the government has the right to establish laws that prevent discrimination against all people but that he opposes the current bill because he believes it equates civil unions with marriage and because of the clause allowing stepchild adoptions. He agreed that there were “different visions” within the Catholic Church on how to engage the debate but noted that Francis had encouraged priests to “accompany people in the streets” and listen to all the different positions.
接受采访时，加兰蒂诺主教说他承认政府有权制定防止歧视所有人的法律，但他反对当前的法案，原因是他认为法案把同性结合等同于婚姻，另一个原因是允许收养继子女的相关条款。他承认，目前在参与这场争论的方式上，天主教内部存在“不同观点”，但他指出方济各鼓励神父“在街上伴随民众左右”，并聆听所有不同立场。
For Ms. Cirinnà, the sponsor of the civil unions bill, passage is a matter of extending civil rights that have been blocked for too long.
对该同性婚姻法案的发起人奇林纳而言，法案获得通过事关扩大受阻太久的公民权利。
“This is a moment to break the dam,” she said.
“这是打破障碍的时刻，”她说。