A “secret” celebrity wedding: In the age of social media, it seems like a Hollywood oxymoron on the order of “late-career comeback” and “no-fault divorce.”
“秘密的”名人婚礼：在社交媒体时代，它与“复出”和“无过错离婚”一样，是好莱坞的矛盾修饰法。
Even so, to judge by the number of celebrities trying off-the-grid nuptials, far from the prying lenses of the paparazzi (Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux, married Aug. 5 in a quiet ceremony at their home in the Bel-Air section of Los Angeles, are but the latest), the underground wedding has become one of Hollywood’s biggest status symbols.
即便如此，从想远离狗仔队窥探镜头、举办不曝光婚礼的名人人数来看，秘密婚礼已成为好莱坞最重要的地位象征之一（最近一次是8月5日，詹妮弗·安妮斯顿[Jennifer Aniston]和贾斯汀·泰鲁[Justin Theroux]在洛杉矶贝尔-艾尔区家中悄悄举行婚礼）。
Cameron Diaz and Benji Madden, Johnny Depp and Amber Heard, and Zooey Deschanel and Jacob Pechenik are among the many couples to attract intense media speculation over their stealth unions, which generally managed to unfold in private without the tabloid scrum.
媒体对很多夫妇的秘密婚礼有过各种猜测，比如卡梅隆·迪亚兹(Cameron Diaz)和本吉·麦登(Benji Madden)、约翰尼·德普(Johnny Depp)和安珀·赫德(Amber Heard)，以及祖伊·德夏内尔(Zooey Deschanel)和雅各布·佩切尼克(Jacob Pechenik)。总的来说，他们成功地私下举办了婚礼，没有被小报打扰。
The famous friends who earn coveted invitations seem to acknowledge that, among the celebrity class, the No. 1 wedding gift on every registry these days is silence.
获得令人艳羡的婚礼邀请的名人朋友们似乎都知道，如今参加名人婚礼时，在签到处奉上的第一份礼物应该是保密。
“I’m afraid to even talk about that wedding because everyone is on top-secret lockdown,” Howard Stern, a guest at the Aniston-Theroux ceremony, said on a recent SiriusXM broadcast. (“Howard Stern discretion,” of course, is another oxymoron; the Medusa-haired shock jock promptly let slip that Jimmy Kimmel had presided over the ceremony.)
“我甚至不敢谈论那场婚礼，因为每个人都被要求绝对保密，”前不久，安妮斯顿和泰鲁婚礼的宾客霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)在SiriusXM的广播节目中说（当然，“霍华德·斯特恩的谨慎”也是一种矛盾修饰法。这位留着蛇形卷发的电台主持人很快透露，婚礼主持人是吉米·基梅尔[Jimmy Kimmel]）。
No matter how much stars try to hide under the dome of silence, leaks are inevitable.
不管明星多么想保密，泄密都是不可避免的。
Ms. Aniston and her Ducati-loving husband, for instance, tried a major head-fake before their ceremony, reportedly hiding their party gear in a vacant house next door and telling guests they were being invited to Mr. Theroux’s 44th birthday party, not a wedding.
比如，安妮斯顿和她非常喜欢杜卡迪摩托车(Ducati)的丈夫在婚礼前扯了个大谎。据说，他们把婚礼用具藏在旁边的一个空房子里，没告诉宾客是请他们来参加婚礼，而是说参加泰鲁的44岁生日派对。
But within days, the tabloid-hungry public already knew about the guest list (which included Lisa Kudrow, Orlando Bloom and Lake Bell), Ms. Aniston’s dress (summery, boho-inspired) and their cake (Muppets-themed).
但是不到几天，热爱八卦新闻的公众已经知道了宾客名单（包括丽莎·库卓[Lisa Kudrow]、奥兰多·布卢姆[Orlando Bloom]和莱克·贝尔[Lake Bell]）、安妮斯顿的婚纱款式（夏日波西米亚风格）和蛋糕样式（木偶主题）。
TMZ and People published numerous photos of the backyard setup, taken from high overhead, and grainy shots of a vendor carrying the cake. But no photos have emerged of the couple themselves, denying the gossip-hungry public even a mental image of the affair, the kind that can linger for years after, say, a royal wedding.
《TMZ》和《人物》(People)杂志公布了很多从高空拍摄的后院场地照片，以及运蛋糕的卖家的模糊照片。但是还没有出现这对夫妻本人的照片，爱八卦的公众甚至不能在头脑中想象一下婚礼的场面，就像那种多年后依然经常被回顾的皇家婚礼照片。
The truth is, the best efforts of the stars are not enough. Even the most discreet wedding is a team effort, so it comes down to the wedding planners, charged with overseeing the whole affair, to make sure that everyone, guests included, observes the lockdown.
实际上，光是明星们的努力还不够。连最秘密的婚礼也是需要集体协作，所以最终要靠负责整场活动的婚礼策划师来确保所有人——包括宾客在内——遵守保密协定。
“There’s no midpoint: It’s absolute secrecy, or it’s everywhere,” said Marcy Blum, the planner for several celebrity weddings, including LeBron James’s 2013 hyper-private event (the printed invitations did not even list a time or place). “Because of cellphones, TMZ doesn’t have to stake out a wedding for there to be a leak. Everyone’s an investigative reporter.”
“没有中间路线：要么绝对保密，要么谁都知道，”马西·布卢姆(Marcy Blum)说。她曾筹办过几位名人的婚礼，包括2013年勒布龙·詹姆斯(LeBron James)非常私密的婚礼（纸质邀请函上甚至没有说明时间和地点）。“因为有手机，《TMZ》甚至不需要靠监视婚礼去得到泄密。每个人都可以是调查记者。”
Here are a few A-list planners discussing the new rules of the hush-hush celebrity wedding. (The following interviews have been edited and condensed).
下面是几位一流婚礼策划师谈论名人秘密婚礼的新规则（采访内容经过编辑和删节）。
In Weddings, Too, It’s Location, Location, Location: “The secret is, look for venues that are hard to get to. Anything with ocean access is easier to get to for the press. If secrecy is really a problem, do it inside a building. Then the chances of people seeing it are a lot less. Or you can use a tent. But sadly, there lies the problem. How do you make it beautiful and romantic without compromising the vision by having to cover it all up?” — JoAnn Gregoli, an owner of Elegant Occasions in New York.
对所有婚礼都一样，最重要的就是地点，地点，地点：“秘诀是寻找难以到达的场地。任何能从海上到达的地点都更容易被媒体找到。如果真的想保密，那就在一个建筑物内举办婚礼。那样人们看到婚礼的机会就少了很多。你也可以用帐篷。不过遗憾的是，那有个问题。全遮起来会影响视野，还怎么让场面依然美丽浪漫呢？”——乔安妮·格雷戈利(JoAnn Gregoli)，纽约高雅盛会公司(Elegant Occasions)所有者之一
Keep Your Friends Close and Your Guest List Closer: “If you really want to keep it secret, you have to invite fewer than 100 guests, and that is really pushing it. Second, like in the case of Jennifer Aniston, or Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel, it helps if people have no idea where they are going. When we planned LeBron’s wedding, we sent an invitation that said it was going to take place somewhere on the West Coast, but we didn’t give details until we called them back, after we vetted them to make sure it was an invited guest or their representative. Still, it’s rarely foolproof. One of their save-the-dates showed up on TMZ.” — Marcy Blum, Marcy Blum Associates, New York.
只邀请密友，缩短宾客名单：“如果真的想保密，那么宾客要少于100人，那真的是很高的要求。第二，像詹妮弗·安妮斯顿或贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)和杰西卡·贝尔(Jessica Biel)那样，不告诉宾客婚礼地点，那样有助于保密。在策划勒布龙的婚礼时，我们在邀请函上说会在西海岸的某个地方举办，但是没有具体说明地点。在我们审查确定受邀宾客或其代表后，才致电告知地点。不过，你很少能万无一失。他们的其中一张请帖就出现在《TMZ》杂志上。”——马西·布卢姆，纽约马西·布卢姆合伙公司(Marcy Blum Associates)
Secure the Perimeter: “The problem is, once something leaks to one press outlet, it’s like sharks feeding on a dead carcass. They swarm. I did a wedding a few years back in the Hamptons involving some very well-known artists in the music industry, and we had security every seven feet around the perimeter of the property. The media will sit outside, waiting for leaks. And they don’t just show up the day of. They’ll be talking to people who provide luxury trailers, the generators, it could be the tenting company. We have to plant security four or five days in advance.” — Andrea Correale, Elegant Affairs Caterers, New York.
严密看守场地周围：“问题是，一旦有消息泄露给一家媒体，那就像用一个动物尸体喂食一群鲨鱼，其他媒体会蜂拥而至。几年前，我在汉普顿筹办一场婚礼，有一些非常著名的音乐人出席，我在场地周围每七英尺设一个保安。媒体会在外面蹲守，等待消息泄露。他们不只是当天出现。他们会跟提供豪华房车、发电机或者帐篷的人交谈。我们必须提前四五天设置保安。”——安德烈娅·科雷亚莱(Andrea Correale)，纽约高雅活动承办公司(Elegant Affairs Caterers)
Establish a Paper Trail: “Very often in an event of this magnitude, you have two to three hundred people on site. It’s not just the caterers you have to worry about. There are lots of vendors involved: musicians, people renting lounge furniture, fabric people. You have to make sure you get the proper forms signed so no one in the other companies leaks word, either. You dot your I’s and cross your T’s, but in the end of the day, you can’t control everything.” — Andrea Correale.
签订书面文件：“这种级别的活动现场往往会有两三百人。你需要担心的不只是酒席承办人，还包括乐师、家具租赁商和织物商等很多供应商。你必须签好法律协议，确保其他公司的人也不会泄密。你做得一丝不苟，不放过任何细节，但到了最后，你依然无法控制一切。”——安德烈娅·科雷亚莱
Spare the Phones, Spoil the Party: “Unless you’re going to make every single guest including Cousin Harry sign a nondisclosure agreement, then nothing is foolproof. So we leave a letter in the guest rooms saying: ‘We really want you to be present for this. Please don’t bring a cellphone, if you do bring it we’re going to ask you to leave it at the check-in desk.’ Then we organize them and put them in separate plastic bags with the number on the outside. It’s not about the couple being so paranoid. There are a lot of non-famous people there. It could be a cousin, an old college roommate. It’s about the couple not wanting the famous guests to be bothered by the non-famous guests for selfies. It’s a wedding, not a red carpet event.” — Marcy Blum.
留下手机，尽情参与派对：“除非你能让每位宾客，包括表哥什么的，都签署保密协定，那么没什么是万无一失的。所以我们在客房里留了一封信，写道：‘我们真心期待您的出席。请不要带手机，如果带了，我们将请您把它留在签到处。’然后我们把手机整理好，单独放入塑料袋，外面贴上编号。不是因为新郎新娘太多疑。而是因为到场的也有很多不出名的人，比如堂（表）兄弟姐妹和大学室友。所以他们不希望名人嘉宾被打扰，被要求自拍合影。这是婚礼，不是走红毯。”——马西·布卢姆
No One Is Above the Law: “With guests, you can say ‘Please don’t take pictures,’ but you know they’re going to Instagram it, so we have just said, ‘Please deposit your phones.’ You can ask them to shut them off, but they won’t. Some people take great umbrage and don’t want to give up their phones. There was a celebrity once who told me, ‘Hey, I’m not going to do it.’ We just had to watch that person. You can always tell what they’re doing. If someone takes a picture just to take a picture, they put the phone down. But if they take a shot and start typing simultaneously, they’re leaking it out.” — JoAnn Gregoli.
无人能凌驾于规则之上：“你可以对宾客们说‘请不要照相’，但你知道他们会在Instagram上发布照片，所以我们会说，‘请把手机存起来’。你可以要求他们关机，但他们不一定照做。有些人会很生气，不想放弃手机。有一次，一位名人对我说，‘嘿，我不会那么做的。’我们就必须盯着那个人。你很容易判断他们在做什么。如果某人只是想拍照，他拍完就会把手机放下。但如果他拍完开始打字，那他就在泄密。”——乔安妮·格雷戈利 
Consider Calling in the Air Force: “Really only in the last year, these magazines are buying drones. They are able to launch them, hover them low. You could drop a drone outfitted with video cameras into a property almost undetected. At one event I did recently in the Hamptons, one came in over the water. There is no way we could have stopped it. They are a lot more annoying than helicopters ever were. Before, with a helicopter, you had a TV crew on board, and you’d have to wait for the show to air. Now with drones, they can put it on YouTube, on Periscope, on Twitter, almost in real time. To the world of celebrities, that is horrible. What do you do: Shoot them down?” — JoAnn Gregoli.
考虑召集空中部队：“其实也就是从去年开始，这些杂志开始购买无人机。他们能够启动无人机，让它们在低空盘旋。你能把一架装有摄像机的无人机降落一个地方，而几乎不被察觉。前不久我在汉普顿筹办一场婚礼，一架无人机在水面上盘旋。我们没有办法阻止它。它们比以前的直升机更烦人。以前的直升机上得有一组电视摄像人员，而且你得等到节目播出。现在，他们把无人机拍到的画面几乎实时地发布到YouTube、Periscope和Twitter上。对名人们来说，这很可怕。你能怎么办呢：把它们打下来？”——乔安妮·格雷戈利