On a Wednesday night in early March 1999, Barbara Walters invited a small group of friends and colleagues to her Manhattan apartment to watch her two-hour interview with Monica Lewinsky. During a commercial break, Ms. Walters stood by the window, looking out over Central Park, and noticed something peculiar. “There’s no traffic on Fifth Avenue,” she observed.
1999年3月初的一个周三夜晚，芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)邀请一些朋友和同事来到她位于曼哈顿的家中，观看她与莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)进行的长达两小时的访谈。在广告间隙，沃尔特斯站在窗边眺望中央公园，然后发现了一个不同寻常的景象。她说，“第五大道上没有车。”
“That’s because everyone is home watching the interview,” one of her producers said.
她的一名制片人说，“这是因为所有人都在家看采访。”
It was only a slight exaggeration. Nearly 50 million people tuned in to see Ms. Walters question Ms. Lewinsky, the former White House intern, about her relationship with President Bill Clinton, more people than had ever watched a news program — or have watched one since. As was often the case with Ms. Walters’s broadcasts during her prime, it was television as a form of national theater.
这个说法只有轻微的夸张成分。有将近5000万人锁定频道，看沃尔特斯向前白宫实习生莱温斯基询问关于她与总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)关系的问题。收看这期节目的人数之多可谓空前绝后。在沃尔特斯的鼎盛时期，从她的节目中经常可以看到，电视是一种国民剧场。
On Friday, the 84-year-old Ms. Walters will sign off from her ABC daytime show “The View” for the last time. After five decades in television, the woman who started her career on camera as a hawker for Alpo dog food and went on to cross the Bay of Pigs with Fidel Castro and to interview every American president (and first lady) since Richard M. Nixon is retiring.
本周五（指5月16日——编注），84岁的沃尔特斯即将最后一次结束在ABC日间节目《观点》(The View)中的播报。从事电视行业的50年间，她刚开始在摄影机前卖Alpo狗粮，后来曾与菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)一同跨越猪湾，而且还对理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)以来的每位美国总统（和第一夫人）进行了采访。如今，这名女性即将退休。
As the sun sets on Ms. Walters’s career, it is also setting on the form of television news she perfected and personified: the intimate sit-down with a world leader, the weepy celebrity confessional, the jailhouse interview — the “big get.”
随着沃尔特斯的职业生涯步入尾声，她十分擅长并已被她代表的电视新闻也正在走向末路：与世界领袖亲密地一同坐下聊天、听哭泣名人的告解、到监狱里采访——都是“猛料”。
In her final weeks on the air, when the disgraced Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling was the man of the hour, Ms. Walters interviewed his friend V. Stiviano. About seven million people tuned in. Ms. Stiviano is no Monica Lewinsky, but the disparity in ratings says as much about the changed media landscape as it does about the interviewees’ relative star power.
她出镜的最后几周，声名狼藉的洛杉矶快船队(Los Angeles Clippers)老板唐纳德·斯特林(Donald Sterling)正在被世人关注。沃尔特斯采访了他的女伴V·斯蒂维阿诺(V. Stiviano)。大约有700万人观看了这档节目。斯蒂维阿诺不是莫妮卡·莱温斯基，但收视上的巨大差距，不仅反映了受访者的名人效应有别，也说明了媒体版图已经发生改变。
Ms. Walters’s peers can’t help seeing her departure as more than the end of one woman’s career. “With Barbara’s retirement, so goes TV news,” said Connie Chung, a longtime television news anchor. “There’s no big payoff for an exclusive television interview with someone for an hour. No one is going to watch it, anyway.”
沃尔特斯的同龄人不由得认为，她的离去不仅代表着一名女性的职业生涯走到尽头。“退休的不仅是芭芭拉，还有电视新闻，”长期担任电视新闻主持人的宗毓华(Connie Chung)说。“对某人进行一小时的电视专访，根本不会有太大收获。反正没人看。”
For decades, this was how we came to know presidents, world leaders and movie stars: in an upholstered chair, facing Ms. Walters or one of her imitators. Subject and interviewer would share in the reflected glory, increasing the celebrity of both newsmaker and newscaster.
数十年来，我们都是这样来了解总统、世界领导人和电影明星的：他们坐在软垫椅上，面对着沃尔特斯或她的模仿者。采访对象和发问者一同处在灯光下，同时增强了新闻制造者和传播者的名声。
But the power of the Big Three networks has faded. The demise of appointment viewing and the proliferation of alternatives to network news have obviated the need for a correspondent with great hair to come into a celebrity’s living room to take a confession. And how much value is there in an “exclusive” when people can follow the interview in real time on their phones via Twitter, or watch the highlights later on YouTube?
然而，三大电视网的力量日渐式微。定时观看节目的时代已经结束，电视网的替代品也已扩散开来，于是，人们不再需要一名发型纹丝不乱的记者进入某位名人的起居室，聆听此人的告解。既然人们能够通过Twitter用手机来实时跟进采访，或者稍后在YouTube上观看其中的亮点，那么所谓的“独家”又具有多大价值？
People in the business of both wrangling and advising celebrities say it’s hard to imagine a single newscaster again holding so much sway over the culture. “There is no one biggest, most important anything anymore,” said Leslee Dart, a publicist who has represented such stars as Woody Allen and Meryl Streep. “We just don’t live in that kind of media world anymore.”
名人的批评者和顾问都表示，很难想象还有哪位新闻主播能对文化产生如此重大的影响。“再也没有什么最重大、最重要的东西了，”代理伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)和梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)等明星的公关顾问莱斯利·达特(Leslee Dart)说。“我们身处的媒体世界已经改变。”
For celebrities and their publicists, the fragmentation of the media has made life both harder and easier. They no longer have the possibility of one-stop shopping — score that interview with Ms. Walters, and your media campaign is basically done — but they do have more outlets from which to choose. They can target a particular demographic, as President Obama did when he appeared in March on the popular online comedy show “Between Two Ferns” to encourage more young people to sign up for health insurance.
对于名人和他们的宣传人员而言，媒体的瓦解是有利有弊的事。他们不能再一劳永逸——做好与沃尔特斯的采访，你的媒体宣传就已基本完成——但他们的确也有更多途径可供选择。他们可以针对某些特殊人群，就像奥巴马总统3月现身备受欢迎的网络喜剧节目《两盆蕨类植物之间》(Between Two Ferns)，鼓励更多年轻人注册医疗保险时那样。
Celebrities can also go straight to their fans. When Gwyneth Paltrow “consciously uncoupled” from her husband, Chris Martin, she didn’t sit for an emotional television interview. She announced the separation — in her own words — via her website, Goop. The post brought so much traffic to Goop that it crashed.
名人还可以直接与粉丝互动。当格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Paltrow)与她的丈夫克里斯·马丁(Chris Martin)“有意识地分离”时，她没有坐下来接受催人泪下的电视采访，而是通过她的网站Goop用自己的话宣布了分居。这个帖子给Goop带来了极高的点击率，甚至使网站一度陷入瘫痪。
The very notion of a celebrity choosing to break news in an interview could soon become outdated. A lot of younger stars simply keep their fans updated on their ups and downs via social media.
名人选择在采访中宣布新消息的概念可能马上就会过时。许多比较年轻的明星都会通过社交媒体来把自己最新的起起落落告诉粉丝。
A cottage industry is emerging to facilitate a direct relationship between stars and their followers. A company called WhoSay helps celebrities manage their activity on social networks. And two former television news executives have teamed up to create Tapp, which builds Internet channels around people with big fan followings.
目前，一种小众业务正在兴起，它可以促进明星与粉丝建立直接联系。一家叫做WhoSay的公司可以帮名人管理他们在社交网络上的活动。两名前电视新闻高管还联合创办了Tapp，它会围绕拥有大量粉丝的人群建立网络渠道。
But for disgraced celebrities trying to redeem their reputations, submitting themselves to rigorous questioning is still the recommended course of action. That’s how ABC’s Bob Woodruff landed John Edwards in 2008, and how Oprah Winfrey landed Lance Armstrong last year.
然而，对于那些名誉扫地、想恢复名声的名人而言，面对犀利的提问仍然是值得推荐的做法。2008年，ABC的鲍勃·伍德拉夫(Bob Woodruff)就是这样采访到约翰·爱德华兹(John Edwards)的，奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)去年也是这样采访到兰斯·阿姆斯特朗(Lance Armstrong)。
It’s also how Ms. Walters landed V. Stiviano, and Mr. Sterling’s wife, Shelly. Of course, by the time these exclusive interviews were shown, the Sterling scandal had been playing out on the Internet for days. And it wasn’t Ms. Walters but CNN’s Anderson Cooper who scored Mr. Sterling himself. It was the biggest get of the whole sordid affair, even if only 720,000 people were watching.
沃尔特斯对V·斯蒂维阿诺和斯特林的妻子谢莉(Shelly)的采访也是一样。当然，当这些独家专访播出时，斯特林的丑闻已经在网上流传了好几天。但是，有幸采访到斯特林本人的不是沃尔特斯，而是CNN的安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)。它得到了整个丑闻事件中最大的猛料，虽然收看这期节目的只有72万人。