WASHINGTON — To some, the long-stalled agreement to relocate a United States Marine base from a heavily populated area of Okinawa, Japan, to a smaller city might finally be seeing the light of day. During his visit to Japan in April, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said, “We look forward to the facility’s construction beginning soon.” A few weeks later at a news conference in Tokyo, President Obama and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agreed that progress had been made.
华盛顿——对于有些人而言，长期停滞的美国驻日海军基地搬迁协议或许终于看到了曙光。根据该协议，美军基地将从日本冲绳县人口密集的地区搬到一座较小的城市。4月，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)在访日期间表示，“我们希望基地的建设能尽快开始。”数周后，奥巴马总统和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在东京的一次新闻发布会上一致认为此事已取得进展。
But for Susumu Inamine, mayor of the smaller city, Nago, the fight is far from over. In meetings at think tanks and with United States government officials this week, Mr. Inamine said that the government in Tokyo and Okinawa’s governor, who support the plan, did not speak for the island’s citizens.
但是在这个叫做名护市的较小城市的市长稻岭进(Susumu Inamine)眼中，这场斗争远未结束。本周，稻岭进在与智库及美国政府官员会晤时说，支持这个计划的日本政府和冲绳县知事不能代表岛民的心声。
The city of Nago, he said, has the power to slow down or block construction of the base by deciding which roads or ports can be used and by exercising its authority to approve or deny certain permits. “What I really wanted to express here was if they unilaterally push forward this plan against the local people, it will not work well,” he said through an interpreter.
他说，名护市有权阻挠或阻止基地建设，因为它能决定哪条道路或哪个港口可供使用，而且还可以通过行使行政权来颁发或拒绝颁发相关许可。他通过翻译表示，“我在这里想表达的其实是，如果他们不顾当地人民的意愿，一意孤行地推行这个计划，肯定不会取得好的结果。”
When Mr. Inamine was asked at a news conference whether he found any sympathetic ears on his trip, it was hard for him to say. “This is a Japanese domestic issue for the U.S. people,” he conceded. A member of his delegation said that arranging a meeting with the Department of Defense was “impossible.” The highest-ranking executive branch official with whom they met was the deputy of the Japan desk at the Department of State.
有人在一次新闻发布会上问稻岭进是否曾在此次行程中遇到过认同其观点的人；对于这一点，他很难回答。他承认，“对于美国人而言，这属于日本内部事务。”其代表团的一名成员说，安排一场与国防部的会晤根本“不可能”。他们见过的级别最高的政府官员是国务院(Department of State)负责日本事务的代表。
They had a little bit more luck on Capitol Hill, where they had an audience with staff members from the offices of eight representatives and three senators, including Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California; Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma; and Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York.
他们在国会的运气稍好一些。他们拜会了8名众议员和3名参议员的幕僚。这3名参议员是加利福尼亚州民主党参议员芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)、俄克拉荷马州共和党参议员汤姆·科波恩(Tom Coburn)和纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten E. Gillibrand)。
When Mr. Inamine was re-elected as Nago’s mayor in January, it was seen as a rebuke to leaders in Tokyo who want the base to remain in Okinawa. Around 75 percent of the people in Okinawa do not want a new base there, according to Sheila A. Smith of the Council on Foreign Relations, who met with Mr. Inamine and his delegation. The mayor, she said, “has a very determined view of his responsibility to do what his constituents have asked him to do.”
1月，当稻岭进再次当选名护市市长时，有人认为这是对希望军事基地留在冲绳的东京领导人的挑战。美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)的希拉·A·史密斯(Sheila A. Smith)表示，约75%的冲绳人都不希望在当地建立新的军事基地。史密斯也见到了稻岭进和他的代表团。她说，稻岭进“坚定地认为自己有责任按照选民对他的要求行事”。
The base, whose formal name is Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, has been a difficult issue in the relationship between the United States and Japan for nearly two decades. In 1995, three service members raped a 12-year-old Japanese girl. The attack galvanized a movement to move the base from its current home a few miles northeast of the prefectural capital, where the community continues to have concerns about crime and pollution.
这个基地的正式名称是美国海军陆战队普天间基地(Marine Corps Air Station Futenma)；近20年来，它一直是美日关系中的难题。1995年，三名士兵强奸了一名12岁的日本女孩。此案引发了一场把该基地从当前地点搬走的运动。它目前位于县首府东北方向几英里远的地方，这里的居民仍然对犯罪和污染感到困扰。
While the current plan would move the base to a less populated area, a landfill for new runways could destroy coral reefs and harm biodiversity off the coast of Henoko, a village in the city of Nago.
虽然根据目前的计划，基地将被搬到一个人口不那么密集的地方，但是如果为了建新跑道而填海造陆，那么就会破坏珊瑚礁，并给名护市的小渔村边野古沿岸的生物多样性带来损害。
This was Mr. Inamine’s second visit to Washington as mayor, and his audiences were not limited to congressional staff, think tanks and his constituents back home. On Tuesday, he spoke to a group of about 50 people at Busboy’s and Poets, a local restaurant chain. At meetings like this, he said that he encouraged United States citizens to write to President Obama about the issue, or to Caroline Kennedy, the United States ambassador to Japan, who he said is concerned about environmental issues.
这次是稻岭进第二次作为市长访问华盛顿，他的听众也不仅限于国会工作人员、智库和他的日本选民。周二，他在当地连锁餐厅“勤杂工与诗人”(Busboy’s and Poets)对大约50人发表了讲话。他说，他会在这种会议上鼓励美国公民就此事写信给奥巴马总统或美国驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)。他说，肯尼迪比较关心环保事务。
Without question, Mr. Inamine faces an uphill battle, and Tokyo could simply wait out his term as mayor and hope he is defeated in the next election. But local experts agreed that his visit was not for naught.
毫无疑问，稻岭进面临着一场艰难的战斗；日本政府可以简单地等着他的市长任期结束，并指望他在下次竞选中落败。但是当地专家认为，他这次的访问并非毫无意义。