On a recent morning Natanel Dukan walked into the Paris offices of the French robot maker Aldebaran and noticed one of the company’s humanoid NAO robots sitting on a chair. Mr. Dukan, an electrical engineer, could not resist. Bending over, he kissed the robot on the cheek. In response the NAO tilted its head, touched his cheek and let out an audible smack.
最近一天上午，纳塔内尔·迪康(Natanel Dukan)走进法国机器人制造商Aldebaran的巴黎办公室，发现公司的仿人机器人NAO正坐在椅子上。身为电气工程师的迪康情不自禁地俯下身，亲吻了机器人的脸颊。这台NAO也做出了反应，它斜着头，触碰了迪康的脸颊，发出了一个亲吻的声音。
It is certainly a very French application for a robot, but the intimate gesture by the $16,000, two-foot robot, now being used in academic research labs and robotic soccer leagues, also reflects a significant shift.
这当然是个非常具有法国特色的机器人用途，但是这台价值1.6万美元（约合9.74万元人民币）、有两条腿的机器人所做出的亲密举动也反映了一个巨大的转变。这种机器人目前已经被应用到了学术研究实验室和机器人足球联赛当中。
Until recently, most robots were carefully separated from humans. They have largely been used in factories to perform repetitive tasks that required speed, precision and force. That generation of robots is dangerous, and they have been caged and fenced for the protection of workers.
此前，大多数机器人都被小心地与人类隔离开来。它们基本被用在工厂里，去执行需要速度、精确度和力量的重复性任务。这一代机器人具有危险性，为了保护工作人员，它们往往被放进笼子，围了起来。
But the industrial era of robotics is over. And robots are beginning to move around in the world.
但是，机器人学的工业时代已经结束。机器人开始在世界各地之间穿梭。
More and more, they are also beginning to imitate — and look like — humans. And they are beginning to perform tasks as humans do, too.
它们越来越多地开始模仿——而且看起来也像——人类。而且它们还开始执行人类执行的任务。
Many of the new generation of robots are tele-operated from a distance, but are increasingly doing tasks independent of direct human control.
新一代机器人中有很多都需要人在一定距离外进行遥控，但目前有越来越多的机器人可以在脱离人类直接控制的情况下执行任务。
For instance, Romeo, a five-foot humanoid robot, will soon be introduced by Aldebaran as a “big brother” to the pipsqueak, kissing NAO robot. Created with the assistance of $13.8 million from the French government, the costly robot is being programmed to care for older people and assist in the home.
例如，Aldebaran即将推出一款高5英尺（约合152.5厘米）的仿人机器人罗密欧(Romeo)，它被介绍为矮小的、能够进行亲吻动作的NAO机器人的“大哥”。法国政府为这台机器人的研发提供了1380万美元；这台造价昂贵的机器人是为照顾老人和帮忙料理家务而设计的。
To provide useful assistance, it will have to do more than the repetitive work already being performed by commercial robots in factories, hospitals and other settings. Moreover, the new robots are designed not just to replace but to collaborate with humans.
为了提供有用的援助，它需要执行的任务将不仅是商业机器人在工厂、医院及其他场所进行的重复性工作。此外，设计这种新型机器人也不仅是为了取代人类，而且还是为了与人类合作。
The idea that robots will be partners of humans, rather than stand-ins or servants, is now driving research at universities and industrial laboratories. This year, new United States industry standards for robotic manufacturing systems were published, underscoring the emergence of the field. The standards specify performance requirements that will permit human workers to collaborate with robots directly, and they reverse manufacturing guidelines from 1999 that prohibited “continuous attended operations” requiring humans to be in close contact with robots that were deemed unsafe by the industry.
机器人将是人类合作伙伴而非替身或佣人的观念正在推动大学和工业实验室里的研究工作。今年，美国发布了机器人制造体系的新行业标准，这突显出该领域正在崭露头角。这些标准对允许人类工作者直接与机器人合作的性能规格进行了详细说明，并且还改变了1999年的制造准则。根据1999年的制造准则，需要有人近距离接触危险机器人的“持续监控操作”是被禁止的。
Today’s robot designers believe that their creations will become therapists, caregivers, guides and security guards, and will ultimately perform virtually any form of human labor. (Robots that can think on their own — that is, perform with high levels of artificial intelligence — have yet to arrive.)
当今的机器人设计者认为，他的作品将成为理疗师、看护人员、向导和保安，而且最终将能进行所有人类体力劳动。（能够独立思考的机器人，即拥有高级人工智能的机器人，尚未到来。）
The key to this advance is the new robots’ form. Their humanlike appearance does more than satisfy science-fiction fantasies. Roboticists say they are choosing the human form for both social and technical reasons. Robots that operate indoors, in particular, must be able to navigate a world full of handles, switches, levers and doors that have been designed for humans.
这种进步的关键就在于新机器人的形式。他们类似人类的外表不仅满足了科幻小说的幻想。机器人专家称，他们选择人形，既出于社会原因，也出于技术原因。尤其因为，那些用于室内的机器人，必须能够在一个充满为人类设计的把手、开关、手柄和门的世界中穿行。
Roboticists also point out that humans have an affinity for their own shape, easing transitions and making collaboration more natural. Creating robots in humanoid form also simplifies training and partnerships in the workplace, and increases their potential in new applications like caregiving.
机器人专家还指出人类喜欢自己的形体，这会促使过度更容易，合作更自然。制造人形机器人还会简化工作中的培训与合作，能增加看护服务等新应用的潜力。
It is still unclear how well these new faux-people will be accepted by society, for they raise fundamental questions about what it means to be human. However, rapid improvements in computer vision, processing power and storage, low-cost sensors, as well as new algorithms that allow robots to plan and move in cluttered environments, are making these new uses possible and in the process changing the nature of robotics.
目前还不清楚这些新型仿人机器人能在多大程度上被社会所接受，因为它们引发了一些涉及人类意义何在的基本问题。然而，电子视觉、处理能力、存储和低成本传感器方面的快速改善，以及允许机器人在混乱环境中进行计划和移动的新算法，都使那些新用途成为可能，并在逐渐改变机器人的性质。
“This is the wave that’s happening in robotics right now,” said Charlie Kemp, an associate professor in biomedical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. “Things are not the same when you’re interacting with people. That’s where we want robots to be; it’s where we see there are huge opportunities for robots; and there are very distinct requirements from what led to the classic industrial robot.”
“这是目前机器人学领域出现的浪潮，”亚特兰大乔治亚理工大学(Georgia Institute of Technology)生物医学工程学副教授查理·肯普(Charlie Kemp)说。“在人与人互动的时候，情况是不一样的。但这是我们希望机器人能够做到的事情，我们认为这为机器人提供了巨大的机会，目前的要求与当时研发传统工业机器人时的要求极为不同。”
And so on factory floors around the world, a new breed of robot is being manufactured by companies like Rethink Robotics of Boston, which makes a humanoid robot for simple factory automation tasks, and Universal Robots of Odense, Denmark, which makes a dual robot-arm system designed for doing more traditional factory applications, but without cages.
因此，波士顿再思考机器人技术公司(Rethink Robotics)、丹麦欧登塞优傲机器人有限公司(Universal Robots)等公司正在世界各地的工厂中制造新型机器人。前者制造了一个能够完成简单的工厂自动化任务的仿人机器人。后者研发了用于比较传统的工厂任务的双臂机器人系统，但这种机器人并未被隔离开来。
Rethink Robotics recently released a video of its robot, Baxter, making a cup of coffee with a Keurig coffee machine. The company said the humanoid robot, with tong-like hands and a computer-screen face, was trained to carry out a variety of preprogrammed coffee-making tasks in just several hours.
再思考机器人技术公司最近公布了机器人巴克斯特(Baxter)利用克里格(Keurig)咖啡机做咖啡的视频。该公司表示，这种手像钳子一样，脸部是一个电脑屏幕的仿人机器人，接受训练后可以在几个小时之内完成预先编程的诸多制作咖啡的不同任务。
In Dr. Kemp’s Healthcare Robotics lab at Georgia Tech, a five-foot robot named Cody, which is able to sense forces on its arms and has a base that allows it to move gracefully, is being used as a dance partner for both experienced human dancers and patients in physical therapy.
在肯普博士的乔治亚理工大学健康护理机器人(Healthcare Robotics)实验室中，一个身高5英尺、名为科迪(Cody)的机器人可以为经验丰富的舞者及接受物理治疗的患者做舞伴。科迪能够感觉到臂膀上的力量，还有着一个能够允许它优雅移动的底座。
“This is a way that robots can be used for fun, interactive exercise in rehabilitation,” Dr. Kemp said. “We can also use it as a tool to understand whole body physical interaction between people and robots.”
“这是机器人应用于康复过程中的有趣的、互动式锻炼活动的一个方式，”肯普博士说，”我们还可以把它当做了解人与机器人之间全面的身体互动的途径。”
At Carnegie Mellon University, Manuela M. Veloso, a professor of computer science, has developed a series of mobile robots she calls CoBots to perform tasks like delivering mail, guiding visitors to appointments and fetching coffee. She calls it “symbiotic autonomy,” since the robots also rely on humans. For example, because they don’t have arms, they can’t operate elevators, so they have been programmed to wait and ask for human assistance. If they get lost, they stop, call up a map of the building on their computer screens, interrupt a passing human and say, “I am lost, can you tell me where I am?”
在卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)，计算机学教授曼纽拉·M·贝洛索(Manuela M. Veloso)研发了一系列能够完成传递邮件、引导访客到达约定地点及取咖啡任务的移动机器人——她称之为合作机器人(CoBot)。她说这种机器人具有“共生自主性”，因为它们还需要依靠人类。例如，由于没有手臂，它们无法操作电梯，因此在经过编程之后，它们可以请求人类协助。如果它们迷路了，它们会停下来，在电脑屏幕上显示出建筑物的地图，拦住路过的人，并说，“我迷路了，你能告诉我我现在在哪吗？”
“The robotics community calls the idea cheating,” Dr. Veloso said, “but it’s not. It’s the secret to real autonomy.”
“机器人学领域说这是在作弊，”贝洛索说。“但这不是作弊，这是实现真正自主的秘诀。”