TUNIS, Tunisia — Libya’s prime minister, Ali Zeidan, was hauled from his bed at 2:30 a.m. Thursday by a group of militiamen who stormed into the luxury hotel where he lives in downtown Tripoli, a kidnapping that would be extraordinary by almost any standard.
突尼斯市——周四凌晨2点半，一群民兵闯入利比亚总理阿里·扎伊丹(Ali Zeidan)的下榻之处，的黎波里市中心的豪华酒店，把他从床上拖走。几乎按照任何标准，这一绑架事件都异常骇人听闻。
But this was Libya, where militias have unrivaled authority.
然而这是在利比亚，一个民兵的权力无可匹敌的地方。
A few days earlier, a group of armed men barged into Mr. Zeidan’s office to demand back pay. They refused to leave for hours and ransacked an office when they did leave. Other militias have hampered production of oil, shut down the water running to the capital, forced power cuts and participated in gun running and drug trafficking — all with impunity.
几天前，一群武装人员冲进扎伊丹的办公地讨薪。他们逗留了几个小时，临走前洗劫了一间办公室。还有一些民兵破坏石油生产、切断输往首都的水源、强行断电，并且参与军火和毒品走私，统统有恃无恐。
Two years after the fall of the long-reigning dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, an air of revolution still hangs over the streets of Libya’s capital, Tripoli, as a weak state struggles to build any sense of national unity, let alone control the unruly, heavily armed militias. It initially seemed that the gunmen may have grabbed the prime minister because they were angry over Washington’s claim that his government approved a commando raid to capture a Libyan citizen suspected of links to Al Qaeda and terrorist attacks.
长期执政的利比亚独裁者穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)倒台两年后，武装斗争的氛围仍然弥漫在首都的黎波里的街头。此时此刻，这个孱弱的国家正苦苦挣扎于打造些许国家团结的意味，更别提控制那些不听话的全副武装的民兵了。一开始看来，持枪歹徒之所以劫持总理，是出于愤怒，因为华盛顿宣称，他领导的政府允许美军突击队采取行动，抓捕与基地组织(Al Qaeda)及恐怖袭击有关的一名利比亚公民。
But these same militiamen had been pressing the government for the prime minister’s resignation, and so many in Tripoli believe the commando raid was simply a pretense. When he was freed unharmed a short time later, Mr. Zeidan demonstrated just how vulnerable the central government is, thanking the “true revolutionaries” who worked for his release, and appealing to armed groups to help build the state.
不过，这群民兵之前一直在向政府施压，要求扎伊丹辞职，因此许多的黎波里人认为，突击行动不过是个借口。不久之后，扎伊丹平安获释，感谢了为他的释放忙碌的那些“真正的革命人士”，并劝说武装团体对建设利比亚做出贡献。这展现出中央政府何其脆弱。
“I hope that they would be a part of the state, and have an effective role through its civil and military institutions,” he said in a televised speech. “I hope that we deal with this situation wisely, using our brains, away from worries and magnifying the situation, and we try to mend what we can.”
“我希望，他们能成为国家的一部分，通过文官和军人机构起到积极的作用，”扎伊丹在电视演讲中表示。“我希望，我们能以智慧来应对目前的局面，开动脑筋，不要担忧、避免局势恶化，尽力重建。”
All across Tripoli, militia members fill the gap left by a weak central government. The men guarding government buildings and the main intersections still wear a variety of American military fatigues and man antiaircraft guns mounted on the back of pickup trucks. Graffiti from the moment of liberation is still scrawled on walls and buildings. “Game over Gaddafi,” one reads in English.
在的黎波里各地，民兵填补了孱弱的中央政府留下的空白。守卫政府大楼和主要路口的士兵，仍然身着样式不一的美军制服，配备架着高射机关炮的小卡车。解放时分留下的潦草涂鸦仍然在围墙和建筑物上。有一条用英语写着，“卡扎菲完蛋了。”
Weapons from Colonel Qaddafi’s enormous arsenals are now in private hands. Every household has a gun. There are about 200,000 armed militiamen in the country, all on the government payroll, yet many are loyal only to their own commanders, not the central government.
卡扎菲的巨型武器库中的装备如今流入私人手中，家家户户都有枪。利比亚有20万左右的武装民兵，全都从政府那里领取报酬，但许多人只效忠于自己的指挥官，而非中央政府。
Formed during and after the uprising against Colonel Qaddafi, Libya’s militias have evolved into a patchwork of often competing regional and political allegiances. They reflect two emerging political blocs: one drawn from prominent families from the Western region around Tripoli, based in the Nafusa mountain town of Zintan, and the other in the bustling mid-coast city of Misurata, known for its strong revolutionary record.
利比亚民兵组织成立于反抗卡扎菲的武装斗争开始以后，如今已演化为一个地域或政治立场相互冲突的大杂烩。它们代表了两大新兴的政治集团：一个源于的黎波里周边西部地区的权贵家族，大本营在奈富塞山地区的津坦；另一个则植根于繁华的中部沿海城市米苏拉塔，而此地因其深厚的革命传统而闻名。
Militias from the two regions clashed in Tripoli during Ramadan in what residents said was a grab for government property. Zintan militias have refused to turn over to the central authorities a son of Colonel Qaddafi, Seif al-Islam, and temporarily shut down the oil pipeline that flows from Libya’s southern oil fields to the port of Zuwara to press demands with the central government.
斋月期间，两派民兵在的黎波里发生冲突。当地居民称，是为了抢夺政府财产。津坦的民兵组织拒绝向中央当局转交卡扎菲之子赛义夫·伊斯拉姆(Seif al-Islam)，还暂时切断了从利比亚南部油田向祖瓦拉港输油的管道，以要挟中央政府满足其要求。
In Eastern Libya, around Benghazi, the birthplace of the uprising, some of the largest militias are loosely or explicitly Islamist, and they often clash with former Qaddafi army units that defected in the revolt. Other militias push for a greater degree of autonomy from the capital.
在利比亚东部，武装反抗的起源地班加西附近，一些最大的民兵团体或明或暗地信奉伊斯兰主义，而且经常与革命期间倒戈的前卡扎菲部队发生冲突。还有一些民兵组织则极力推动从的黎波里获取更大的自治权。
Libya’s tribes have also emerged as powerful — and disruptive — players. When a militia in Tripoli kidnapped the daughter of Colonel Qaddafi’s former intelligence chief after she visited her father in prison, his powerful tribe in the south retaliated swiftly by cutting the water to the capital for a week, an extraordinary burden for residents in the desert heat of late summer.
事实证明，利比亚的部落也成了强大的角色，甚至是破坏性的角色。卡扎菲的前情报部门负责人之女到监狱探视父亲后，遭到的黎波里的一支民兵队伍绑架。之后，该情报官员所属的强大南方部落迅速进行了报复，切断首都的供水长达一周，对于正在承受夏末炎热天气的沙漠居民，这无疑带来了异常沉重的负担。
The government has tried to bind these disparate and competing forces into the ranks of the national army and police, placing them on the government payroll and ordering regional militias to leave the capital. Those moves have only been half successful. Many Libyans criticize the government for paying the militiamen in the first place, since it has caused thousands more men to join the militias.
政府曾经尝试将这些三教九流、相互冲突的武装组织整编为国家的军队和警察部队，由政府向这些武装组织发放薪饷，并命令地方性的民兵组织撤出首都。这些举动只是取得了部分成功，许多利比亚人批评政府首先就不该给民兵发放薪饷，因为这导致数千名男子新加入了民兵组织。
“They turned what should be a national contribution into a job,” said Mustafa Almanen, a member of Libya’s first governing body, the National Transitional Council. The original forces that fought against Colonel Qaddafi numbered around 20,000. The real revolutionaries complain that many of the militiamen are former Qaddafi loyalists seeking protection by pretending to be revolutionaries.
利比亚的第一个执政实体全国过渡委员会(National Transitional Council)成员穆斯塔法·阿勒马宁(Mustafa Almanen)说，“他们把本来应该是为国家做贡献的事，变成了一份工作。”最初与卡扎菲作战的武装人员大约有2万人。真正的革命者抱怨，许多民兵过去都向卡扎菲效忠，现在则伪装成革命者来寻求保护。
One group that initially claimed responsibility for abducting the prime minister is called the Joint Operations Room of Libya’s Revolutionaries. According to one legislator it was formed just a few days ago by the speaker of the General National Congress, Nuri Abusahmen, who sat beside the prime minister as he addressed the room Thursday.
最初宣称对绑架总理负责的一个团体名为利比亚革命者联合作战部(Joint Operations Room of Libya’s Revolutionaries)。一位议员透露，这个组织是由利比亚国民议会(General National Congress)主席努里·阿布赛赫民(Nuri Abusahmen)在短短几天前成立的。上周四，总理在对满屋听众发表讲话时，他就坐在旁边。
Officials said that at about 2:30 a.m. about 100 members of the militia stormed the hotel that functions as a residence and office space for the government. They marched Mr. Zeidan out of the hotel without his glasses, in his night shirt, and without any resistance from the security.
官员透露，大约在凌晨2点半，约有100名民兵组织成员冲进了充当总理住所和政府办公场所的酒店。他们带着扎伊丹大步走出酒店，当时扎伊丹没有戴眼镜，穿着睡衣，而安保人员没有做出任何抵抗。
Only at midday were the gunmen persuaded to free the prime minister. One of the main negotiators who helped secure his release was the influential deputy defense minister, Khalid Sharif, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan and leader of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, the pre-eminent Islamist group that fought the government of Colonel Qaddafi. Mr. Sharif was detained by the United States after Sept. 11, 2001, for suspected links to Al Qaeda.
直到中午枪手们才被说动释放总理，一名促使他获释的主要谈判者是很有影响力的国防部副部长哈立德·谢里夫(Khalid Sharif)，谢里夫曾参加过阿富汗战争，也是利比亚伊斯兰战斗组织(Libyan Islamic Fighting Group)的领导者。该组织在伊斯兰主义团体当中有着最显赫的地位，曾与卡扎菲的政府军作战。在2001年9月11日后，谢里夫曾被怀疑与基地组织(Al Qaeda)存在关联，因而一度被美国关押。
“We cannot be compared to other countries where they had strong institutions of army and police. In Libya we did not have institutions,” said the deputy foreign minister, Wafa Bughaighis. “Qaddafi was known to protect himself and his own people by brigades and his main concern was always just getting rid of anyone who opposed him. Very strong security ties but we did not have national army or national police. Everything was set to protect him, to keep him staying in power as long as possible.”
“我们不能跟其他国家比，它们有很强的军队和警察机制。但利比亚没有这些机制，”利比亚副外长瓦法·布盖吉斯(Wafa Bughaighis)说。“人们知道卡扎菲会用部队保护他自己和他周围的人，而他担心的主要问题一直是除掉任何反对他的人。那时，利比亚有着很强的安全体系，但是并没有国家的军队或警察。所有安排都是为了保护他而设置的，为的是让他掌权的时间越长越好。”
Yet local leaders suggest the problem is more political than a matter of too many gunmen. The prime minister’s abduction was part of a political power play, partly because of accusations that he sanctioned the snatch operation at the weekend to capture a Qaeda suspect, Nizah Abdul Hamed al-Ruqai, also known an Abu Anas al-Libi, but also because of his moves to disarm and control the militias.
然而地方领导人物表示，与其说这是武装人员太多的问题，不如说是政治问题。总理遭到挟持是政界权力斗争的一部分，部分原因在于，有人指责是他授权实施了周末抓捕一名基地组织嫌疑人的行动，该名嫌疑人名为尼扎赫·阿卜杜勒·哈米德·鲁卡伊(Nizah Abdul Hamed al-Ruqai)，又名阿布·阿纳斯·利比(Abu Anas al-Libi)。但也是因为他解除民兵组织武装，并控制民兵组织的举动。
Some of the revolutionary brigades have resisted being disbanded and absorbed into the army and police. Others are voicing complaints of the lack of regional development and unfair distribution of Libya’s resources.
一些参与革命的武装队伍不愿被解散并吸收进军队和警察部队，另一些人则因为地方没有得到发展、利比亚的资源分配不均而公开表达抱怨。
“They are somehow partly right when they say we are being treated as the problem but we should be part of the solution,” said Tarek Mitri, the United Nations special representative in Libya.
联合国驻利比亚特别代表塔里克·米特里(Tarek Mitri)表示，“他们说我们被当成了问题，可我们应该是答案的一部分。他们的这种说法一定程度上是对的。”