DIEPSLOT, South Africa — Isaac Makhura gestured toward the squalid sprawl of shacks outside his house in this informal settlement, where some of the country’s most desperate people live. Was it any wonder, he said, that he no longer had any qualms about voting against the African National Congress, the party of his entire family for three generations?
南非迪普斯鲁特——在这个非正式定居点内生活着南非的一些最贫困潦倒的人，伊萨克·穆克胡拉(Isaac Makhura)指着他屋子外那些不断蔓延的邋遢棚屋说，他现在能心安理得投票反对非洲人国民大会(African National Congress)，这个他全家三代人所属的党派，还有什么奇怪的吗？
“Is this why Nelson Mandela fought for our freedom?” he asked as South Africans mourned the death on Thursday of Mr. Mandela, the country’s first black president and the party’s most beloved leader. “The A.N.C. has let us down.”
“这就是为什么纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)为我们的自由而战的原因吗？”在南非人民哀悼上周四去世的曼德拉，这位南非首位黑人总统、也是非国大最受爱戴的领导人的时候，穆克胡拉这样问道，他说，“非国大已经让我们失望了。”
In the coming months, the African National Congress will face what may be its most fiercely competitive election since it came to power in 1994 — and, for the first time, will do so without its most important moral figure, Mr. Mandela.
在未来几个月里，非洲人国民大会将迎来可能是自其1994年执政以来竞争最激烈的一次选举，也将首次在没有其最重要的道德领袖曼德拉的情况下面对这场选举。
“After Mandela, the A.N.C. loses the biggest link to its glorious past,” said William Gumede, who has written extensively about Mr. Mandela and his party. “It will face the voters without him.”
“曼德拉去世后，非国大失去了连接其辉煌历史的最大纽带，”威廉·古梅德(William Gumede)说，“非国大将在没有曼德拉的情况下面对选民。”古梅德写过许多有关曼德拉及非国大的文章。
Corruption allegations against senior officials like President Jacob Zuma, a failing school system, endemic joblessness, violent crime and growing inequality have whittled away the once near-universal support for the party in places like Diepsloot, a traditional bedrock of a party that boasts of its “bias toward the working class.”
在像迪普斯鲁特这样的地方，曾经有过的对非国大近乎百分之百的支持已经有所减弱，有各种原因，包括比如总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)等高官涉嫌腐败的问题、失败的教育体系、难以摆脱的失业、暴力犯罪以及不断深化的不平等。迪普斯鲁特是鼓吹“偏向工人阶层”的非国大的传统基石。
Now Diepsloot is a political battleground, with other parties making inroads. No one expects the African National Congress to lose the national election, but there are signs that it could slip below 60 percent of the vote, an important psychological figure for a party accustomed to landslides.
如今，迪普斯鲁特是一个政治战场，其他党派正向这里进军。没人认为非国大将会在全国选举中失败，但有迹象显示，其得票率可能会跌到60%以下，对这个习惯于赢得压倒性多数的政党来说，60%的数字有重要的心理作用。
Mr. Mandela leaves behind a South Africa where political power is firmly in the hands of the majority, and he helped steer the country away from what seemed to be the biggest risk at the time of its transition to democracy: a race war that pitted blacks against whites.
曼德拉身后的南非，政治权力牢牢地掌控在多数派手中，他帮助这个国家在民主转型中避开了当时看来是最大的风险：让黑人与白人相互对抗的种族战争。
But economic power is still largely in white hands. Unemployment, particularly among the young black people who make up a vast population bulge here, is higher than ever. Inequality has grown, as a small group of black elites has joined wealthy whites in the upper echelons of society, leaving the masses far behind. Seething anger over this state of affairs, after bubbling for years, boiled over in August 2012 when the police killed 34 striking miners in the country’s worst police violence since the end of apartheid.
但是，白人依然掌握着大部分的经济权力。失业率，尤其是在南非人口中占很大比例的年轻黑人的失业率，比任何时候都高。随着一小部分黑人精英加入富裕白人的行列，成为社会上层，广大民众被甩在了后面，不平等的问题已在加重。人们对这种状况的愤怒已经酝酿了好几年，终于在2012年8月爆发了，当时警察杀死了34名罢工的矿工，这是该国自种族隔离制度结束以来最严重的警察暴力事件。
It was a far cry from the heady days of Mr. Mandela’s release from prison after 27 years in 1990 and his landslide victory in South Africa’s first nonracial election four years later.
这与1990年曼德拉在坐了27年牢后被释放，以及他在4年后举行的首次不限种族的选举中大获全胜的令人兴奋的日子相去甚远。
“Let there be justice for all,” Mr. Mandela said in his inaugural address. “Let there be peace for all. Let there be work, bread, water and salt for all.”
曼德拉在就职演讲中说，“让所有人得享正义。让所有人得享和平。让所有人得享工作、面包、水和食盐。”
It turned out these promises would be tough to keep, even for a man with Mr. Mandela’s gifts.
但事实证明这些承诺却难以兑现，即使是对一个拥有曼德拉那样才能的人来说。
“There was so much hope,” George Bizos, Mr. Mandela’s lawyer and a close friend, said before Mr. Mandela died. “Those of us who took part in the struggle, we expected the speedy establishment of an egalitarian society. It has turned out to be a daydream.”
 “人们有这么多的希望，”曼德拉的律师及亲密朋友乔治·比佐斯(George Bizos)在曼德拉去世前曾这样说，“我们这些参与斗争的人，希望能快速建成一个平等社会。但事实证明，那是场白日梦。”
Mr. Mandela pledged in 1997 that South Africa would avoid the “formation of predatory elites that thrive on the basis of looting national wealth and the entrenchment of corruption.”
曼德拉在1997年曾许诺，南非要避免“形成一个靠掠夺国家财富以及根深蒂固的腐败而繁荣的精英阶层。”
And yet that has happened. The African National Congress has slowly gone from a liberation movement to a Tammany Hall-style political machine. Corruption is endemic. Deep ties between big business and politicians have reinforced the perception that those in power seek only their own enrichment.
但这还是发生了。非洲人国民议会已经慢慢地从一个解放运动演变为坦慕尼协会(Tammany Hall)式的政治机器。腐败难以摆脱。大企业和政客之间的密切关系加强了人们认为当权者只为自己追求财富的看法。
Mr. Mandela’s death now poses daunting questions for the party. Even in his decline, it benefited from the aura of promise and possibility that surrounded him, and the urge to link the party with his name was evident. In recent months, it bused masses of supporters in African National Congress T-shirts to the hospital where he was being treated. After his death, party supporters were quick to tie the party to Mr. Mandela and its current leaders.
如今，曼德拉的去世给该党提出艰巨的问题。甚至在他身体不断衰弱的情况下，非国大仍受益于环绕着曼德拉的希望与机会的光环，同时，把党与曼德拉的名字联在一起的冲动也显而易见。不久前的几个月里，非国大用大巴车把众多身着非国大T恤衫的支持者运到曼德拉接受治疗的医院所在地。曼德拉去世后，该党的支持者很快把党与曼德拉及其现任领导人联系在一起。
In Soweto on Friday, the day after Mr. Mandela died, South African flags were few, but the emblem of the African National Congress — a hand clutching a spear on a field of black, green and yellow — was ubiquitous. “This Mandela belongs to the A.N.C.,” a man said through a microphone.
上周五，也就是曼德拉去世的第二天，在索韦托很少看到南非国旗，但非洲人国民大会的标志却到处可见，标志上是黑、绿、黄三色旗帜和一只握着长矛的手。一个男子通过麦克风大声说，“曼德拉属于非国大。”
A large truck was parked at a corner, a rolling stage with giant color photographs of the current president, Mr. Zuma, proclaiming that the entire province is now a better place.
一辆大卡车停在一个街角上，这是一个移动宣传站，上面贴着现任总统祖玛的大幅彩色照片，他在照片中宣告整个省现在比以前更好了。
“Viva Mandela,” a man shouted into the microphone. “Viva A.N.C., viva Zuma!”
一个男子对着麦克风喊道，“曼德拉万岁，非国大万岁，祖玛万岁！”
Mr. Mandela stepped off the national stage in 2004, retiring from public life. Few can say with certainty what he would have made of the tumult surrounding the striking miners and the police response, such was the fog that enveloped him in his last years, people who visited him said.
曼德拉在2004年退出了国家的政治舞台，不再参与公共活动。很少有人能毫无疑问地说出曼德拉会如何处理那次围绕罢工矿工和警察反应的骚乱，一些探望过他的人说，他在生命的最后几年生活在一种迷雾笼罩之中。
But the problems of today’s South Africa are at least partly rooted in the choice Mr. Mandela made as president to put racial reconciliation above all else and, critical analysts of his legacy say, to put the easing of white fears above the fulfillment of black aspirations. “Mandela became a buffer zone between white fears and black aspirations,” said Aubrey Matshiqi, a veteran analyst.
然而，如今南非的问题至少部分来源于曼德拉担任总统期间作出的选择。对他的政治遗产做批评分析的人士说，他把种族和解作为首要问题，把缓解白人的恐惧置于实现黑人的愿望之上。老练的分析人士奥布雷·马士奇(Aubrey Matshiqi)说，“曼德拉成了白人恐惧和黑人愿望之间的缓冲区。”
Mr. Mandela guided the African National Congress away from its socialist past and shunned radical means of redistributing wealth, like seizing white-owned land and businesses, which helped keep the peace and stabilize the economy but made it harder to raise living standards for blacks.
曼德拉引导非洲人国民大会摆脱了其社会主义的过去，避免了使用激进的方法重新分配财富，比如剥夺白人拥有的土地和企业等，这有助于维持该国的和平和经济稳定，但却让提高黑人的生活水平变得更加困难。
By embracing a Truth and Reconciliation Commission, he helped the country move peacefully beyond its racist, authoritarian past, but some South Africans feel that serious crimes went unanswered and that wishful forgetfulness has replaced true reconciliation.
通过真相与和解委员会(Truth and Reconciliation Commission)的工作，他帮助南非和平地走出了种族歧视和专制的过去，但一些南非人却觉得，严重的犯罪行为没有得到应有的惩罚，一厢情愿的遗忘取代了真正的和解。
To some, Mr. Mandela’s death offers the opportunity to shed the notion that South Africa’s transition from white rule to democracy was a miracle rather than a hard-won compromise.
对某些人来说，曼德拉的去世给人们提供了改变一种观念的机会，这种观念认为南非从白人统治转为民主制度是个奇迹，而不是一次难得的妥协。
“The idea that a miracle occurred in South Africa is a profoundly unhelpful one,” said Steven Friedman, the director of the Center for the Study of Democracy at the University of Johannesburg. “We’ve had some successes and also a lot of setbacks, but no miracles that I can think of.”
约翰内斯堡大学(University of Johannesburg)民主研究中心(Center for the Study of Democracy)主任史蒂文·弗里德曼(Steven Friedman)说，“认为南非发生了一场奇迹的观念对人们毫无帮助。我们取得了一些成功，但也经历了很多曲折，但谈不上什么奇迹。”