A memorable moment in American labor history was the 1912 textile strike in Lawrence, Mass., when, according to lore, predominantly female workers marched with signs reading, “We want bread, but we want roses, too.” The apocryphal slogan, revived in songs recorded in the 1970s and ’80s by Judy Collins and John Denver, came to mean, “We need a decent living, but we need a life, too.”
1912年马萨诸塞州劳伦斯的纺织业罢工，是美国劳工史上令人难忘的一刻，据说当时以女性为主的纺织工人上街游行时标语上写着：“我们想要面包，但是我们也想要玫瑰。”这个真假莫辨的标语在20世纪七八十年代被朱迪·科林斯(Judy Collins)和约翰·丹佛(John Denver)写入歌中，意思变成了“我们需要一个体面的生计，但是我们也需要生活。”
But that was then and this is now, when the dream of a life with time enough to smell the roses seems farther away than ever. Among professionals, work weeks of 50 hours or more have become commonplace. Among mothers, three-quarters with young children now work outside the home. Working parents combined are putting in about 28 more days of paid work a year than they did in 1970. As in 1912, the people who feel the loss of leisure time the most are mothers.
但是此一时彼一时，现在有时间闻玫瑰香味的梦想比以往任何时候都更难实现。对职业人士来说，每周工作50小时以上是常事。如今四分之三有小孩的女人在外面工作。现在父母双方加起来每年工作的时间比1970年大约多28天。和1912年一样，感觉最缺乏空闲时间的大多是母亲。
In recent years an endless stream of books have been written about the overworked American Mom. The sheer volume of these books, and the level of dissatisfaction they express, suggest a vast social problem. “Overwhelmed,” by Brigid Schulte, a writer for The Washington Post and a married mother of two school-age children, is the latest cri de coeur. Schulte asks whether her “scattered, fragmented and exhausting” life is just her or a byproduct of something bigger — something shared by millions of other time-starved women.
近些年，有数不清的书在讨论过度劳累的美国母亲。这些书的数量之多以及其中表达出的不满程度暗示了一个巨大的社会问题。布里吉德·舒尔特(Brigid Schulte)的《不堪重负》(Overwhelmed)是最新的疾呼。舒尔特是《华盛顿邮报》的撰稿人，有两个学龄孩子。她问道，自己“散乱、四分五裂、筋疲力竭的”生活只是个特例，还是某个更大的问题的产物，是其他成百上千万严重缺乏时间的女性共有的问题？
Much of the ground she covers on her “journey” to answer this question is as well-trodden as the pilgrimage road to Santiago de Compostela, but if anyone still thinks it’s just her, Schulte offers an amply documented reminder that it isn’t. Schulte reports that the “ideal worker” norm prevails in the American workplace: an individual who has no family obligations, no interests that can compete with work — preferably no private life at all. People who don’t measure up to this ideal risk being treated like Kleenex: used up and then tossed aside. She describes the widespread, overt discrimination against people with family responsibilities, and the unconscious bias against caregivers in the job market. One study showed, for example, that mothers seeking entry- and mid-level positions received half the number of job offers that childless women with otherwise identical résumés received.
她回答这个问题的“旅程”所涉及的大多数地方，和去圣地亚哥孔波斯特拉的朝圣之路一样，并非“人迹罕至”，但是如果有人仍然认为那只是她自己的问题，那舒尔特提供了丰富的资料，提醒读者事实不是这样的。舒尔特报告说，美国工作场所普遍的“理想员工”标准是一个没有家庭责任、没有足以与工作争夺精力的兴趣爱好、最好完全没有私生活的人。不符合这个完美标准的人有可能得到餐巾纸那样的待遇：用完后被丢到一边。她讲述了就业市场对有家庭责任的人存在着广泛的、公然的歧视，以及对需要照顾别人的人的下意识偏见。比如，有项研究表明，寻找初级或中级职位的母亲得到的工作机会比跟她其他条件相同但是没有孩子的女人少一半。
Meanwhile, at home, the mystique of the perfect Mom torments middle-class mothers like an inner Savonarola. Grandmothers are amazed at the hyperparenting efforts of their daughters, who rush their little royalty from soccer matches to music and ballet classes to play dates to bedtime readings of the Great Books. No surprise, then, that almost 30 percent of mothers with M.B.A.s no longer work outside the home; many educated mothers in the United States who can afford to drop out of the labor force do so, more than in any other industrialized country.
与此同时，在家里，完美母亲的奥秘像萨佛纳罗拉(Savonarola)一样在心里折磨中产阶级母亲。祖母们对女儿们过度养育的努力感到惊讶，她们忙得不可开交：足球比赛，音乐和芭蕾舞课，节目表演，睡前读名著。难怪有工商管理硕士学位的母亲们有大约30%不再出去工作；很多受过教育却不必挣钱养家的美国母亲都不再工作了，比例超过其他工业国家。
Why have we come to this? And why, after decades of anguish, has so little been done to relieve these extreme pressures? “Overwhelmed” provides several answers. It may surprise some readers that, in the United States, no law limits the hours a worker has to work a week, and no law prevents employers from working salaried professionals unlimited hours without paying overtime. Ironically, just as millions of women have entered the professional and managerial ranks, the average workweek for educated workers has lengthenedconsiderably.
我们为什么走到了这一步？为什么经过几十年的痛苦之后，还是几乎没有采取行动来减轻这种极端的压力？《不堪重负》给出了几个答案。可能会让有些读者感到意外的是，在美国，没有任何法律限制一个员工每周必须工作的时间，没有任何法律阻止雇主让领薪水的专业人员无限制地工作而不必付加班费。讽刺的是，随着成百上千万女性进入专业和管理队伍，受过教育的员工的平均周工作时间也加长了很多。
At home, men have not picked up much slack. Even mothers who work for pay are still doing twice the amount of housework and child care as fathers. In a 2010 study, partnered female scientists did 54 percent of the cooking, cleaning and laundry, while partnered male scientists carried just 28 percent of the load.
在家里，男人们没有分担太多责任。在做家务活和照看孩子方面，那些上班挣钱的母亲们仍比父亲们多做了一倍。2010年的一项调查表明，有伴侣的女性科学家承担了54%的做饭、打扫和洗衣服的活儿，而有伴侣的男性科学家们只承担了28%。
In a telling anecdote, Schulte describes her own husband, a fellow journalist, leaving the house one Thanksgiving morning with a six-pack under his arm, headed to a friend’s place while leaving her in the kitchen to prepare the holiday feast. This is the same guy who doesn’t know where the kids’ dentist is or how to keep staples like toilet paper stocked or how to pay the bills on time.
舒尔特生动地讲述了自己丈夫的一件轶事。他也是个记者，感恩节上午他胳膊下面夹着一箱六罐装啤酒去朋友那儿，留下她在厨房里准备节日大餐。他不知道孩子去哪里看牙，也不知道如何常备卫生纸这样的日用品或者如何按时付账单。
We all know him. That’s why so many of us write these books.
我们身边都有这么一个人。这就是为什么有这么多人写这方面的书。
What we’re up against is not just the corporations that exploit labor and the men who still feel domestically privileged, but American culture itself: a culture that is still ambivalent about a mother’s proper role; that still socializes women to be the ones who care for others; and that has elevated “work” to the status of a religion. A culture that women themselves have in large part bought into.
我们反对的不只是剥削员工的公司和仍感觉在家有特权的男人，而是美国文化：这种文化仍对母亲的角色持自相矛盾的态度；仍认为女人应该照顾别人；把“工作”提升到神圣的地位。而女人们在很大程度上已经接受了这种文化。
This traditional culture has its fierce defenders. In one of the best sections in the book, Schulte interviews Pat Buchanan, the man who more than anyone else destroyed the prospect of a high-quality universal child care system in the United States.
这种传统文化有强大的支持者。这本书写得最好的一部分是舒尔特对帕特·布坎南(Pat Buchanan)的采访。布坎南对于毁掉美国建立高质量的统一儿童保育体系的可能性，要负主要责任。
In 1971 Congress passed a bipartisan bill that would have established such a system, to be run by community organizations. Buchanan, whose own Roman Catholic mother stayed home to raise nine kids, conjured up a vision of factory-­raised automatons brought up by a soulless state, and the anti-Communist right swung into action. He was a special assistant to President Richard Nixon at the time. “We wanted not only to kill the bill,” Buchanan told Schulte, “we wanted to drive a stake right through its heart.” Bowing to the pressure, Nixon vetoed the bill and Congress sustained the veto.
1971年，国会通过了一个受到两党支持的法案，它本可以建立这样一个体系，由社区组织运营。布坎南本人的母亲是罗马天主教徒，在家养育九个孩子。他虚构了一个前景，说在这个体系中长大的孩子会像工厂生产出来的机器人，是被一个没有灵魂的国家养大的。反对共产主义的右翼也很快采取了反对行动。当时他是理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)总统的特别助理。“我们不仅想扼杀那个法案，”布坎南告诉舒尔特，“我们还想一下击中它的核心。”迫于这种压力，尼克松否决了这个法案，国会接受了他的否决。
“That sucker was gone,” Buchanan bragged, more than 40 years later. “Gone forever.”
“那个忽悠人的法案完蛋了，”40多年后，布坎南得意洋洋地说，“永远完蛋了。”
Universal child care and other policies that make mothers’ lives more feasible are commonplace in other countries, including Denmark, which Schulte visits in her search to find a better way. The descendants of Vikings prove that human cultures can change. But the fragile “bright spots” that Schulte unearths in the United States do not encourage us to think that our country is going to change anytime soon. One mark of progress, the Results-­Only Work Environment (ROWE) at Best Buy, which allowed workers flexible schedules as long as they produced results, is enthusiastically described, and three pages later we learn simply that it was ended by a new chief executive, Hubert Joly, who called it “fundamentally flawed.”
让母亲们的生活更具可行性的统一儿童养育体系和其他政策在其他国家很常见，包括丹麦。舒尔特在为寻找更好的办法进行调查时访问了丹麦。北欧海盗的后裔证明，人类的文化是可以改变的。但是舒尔特在美国发现的微弱的“亮点”，不足以鼓舞我们期待美国在短期内会改变。舒尔特热情地讲述了其中一个进步的标志：百思买(Best Buy)集团的“只关注结果的工作环境”，它允许员工们自由安排时间，只要能完成工作就行。但是在三页之后，我们得知这个制度被新任首席执行官休伯特·乔利(Hubert Joly)叫停了，他认为它“从根本上是有缺陷的”。
In her quest to find something upbeat to tell us, Schulte ultimately falls back on the fallacy that a systemic problem can be addressed if we, as individuals, just try harder to fix ourselves.
舒尔特在努力寻求一些能鼓舞我们的东西，但是她最终得出了一个谬论：如果我们个人更努力地调整自己，那这个体制性的问题就能得到解决。