When Boko Haram fanatics attacked a girls’ boarding school in northeastern Nigeria, kidnapping several hundred girls whose only offense was to dream of becoming doctors, teachers or lawyers, the Nigerian authorities’ initial response was to lie.
当博科圣地(Boko Haram)的极端分子袭击尼日利亚东北部的一所女子寄宿学校，绑架数百名毫无过错、只是梦想着成为医生、教师或律师的女孩时，尼日利亚当局的第一反应是撒谎。
The military promptly claimed that it had freed 107 of the girls. In fact, it had done nothing, and, the girls’ parents say, it continued to do little for the three weeks since.
军方很快声称已经解救了107名女孩。事实上，它什么也没做，而且，女孩们的家长说，此后三周里它也几乎毫无作为。
Meanwhile, we in the news media world were also largely indifferent, too busy reporting nonnews like the latest on the missing MH370 airliner. The American government, the United Nations and other players didn’t seem interested either.
与此同时，我们这些新闻媒体对此也基本上漠不关心。我们忙着报道一些不是新闻的新闻，比如失踪的马航370航班的最新消息。美国政府、联合国和其他各方势力似乎也没兴趣。
Yet if world leaders and the news media dropped the ball, leadership came elsewhere. More than 50 of the kidnapped girls managed to escape the gunmen. Dads armed with nothing more than bows and arrows pursued the kidnappers into the terrifying Sambisa forest, where militants have hide-outs. Women’s rights advocates in Nigeria noisily demanded action, and social media mavens around the world spread word on Twitter, Facebook and online petitions — and a movement grew.
然而，世界领袖和新闻媒体撒手不管了，自然会有别的领导者挺身而出。五十多名被绑架的女孩设法逃脱了枪手的控制。为追击绑匪，手里只有弓箭的爸爸们走进了恐怖的山姆比萨丛林，那里是激进分子的藏身地。尼日利亚女性权益倡导人士大声疾呼采取行动，世界各地的社交媒体达人们在Twitter、Facebook和网络请愿活动上将消息传布开来——一场运动开始了。
The #BringBackOurGirls hashtag, started on Twitter by a Nigerian lawyer, has now been shared more than one million times. A Nigerian started a petition on Change.org, calling for more efforts to find the girls, and more than 450,000 people around the world have signed it.
由一名尼日利亚律师在Twitter上发起的#BringBackOurGirls（让女孩回家）标签如今已经被分享了超过一百万次。一个尼日利亚人在Change.org上发起了请愿，吁求采取更多措施寻找女孩们，全球超过45万人联署。
Nigerian women embarrassed the government by announcing that they would strip off their clothes and march naked into the Sambisa forest to confront the militants and recover the girls.
尼日利亚女人们在羞辱政府：她们宣布要脱光衣服，赤身裸体游行到山姆比萨丛林，和激进分子当面对质，把孩子夺回来。
All this grass-roots activism finally catapulted this news — three weeks later — onto the global agenda. President Obama weighed in this week and sent a team of security experts to help. Nigeria has offered a $300,000 reward for information about the girls, and the government finally seems to have been embarrassed into making them a priority.
所有这些草根活动——在三周之后——终于一举将这则“新闻”变成了全球议题。奥巴马总统本周也发表了看法，并派出一个安全专家团队前往协助。尼日利亚悬赏30万美元（约合190万元人民币）征求跟被绑架女孩有关的信息，看来政府终于难堪到要把这当作要事来办了。
It’s reasonable to be skeptical, for Nigerian officials have been as feckless as Nigerian activists have been brave. According to The Associated Press, a military barracks an hour from the school was alerted to the attack, but troops never showed up.
对这个政府的怀疑不是没来由的，尼日利亚的活动人士有多勇敢，该国的官员就有多懈怠。据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，一个距离学校仅一小时路程的军营曾经收到警报，但是军队始终没有现身。
Then Nigeria’s first lady, Patience Jonathan, accused activists of fabricating the kidnappings. She reportedly had a female protest leader detained.
而后，尼日利亚第一夫人佩逊丝·乔纳森(Patience Jonathan)出面指责绑架案是活动人士编造出来的。据称，她下令拘捕了一名女性抗议领导人。
It’s not clear if this global clamor will succeed, and two girls already have reportedly died of snakebites. But the United States might be of help locating the girls. For example, some reportedly have been taken to an island in Lake Chad. There are few people on the islands (the area all used to be underwater) and limited vegetation, so satellite imagery or reconnaissance aircraft might be able to locate any girls there.
目前尚不清楚，这场全球性的呼吁能否奏效，据称已经有两名女孩死于蛇咬。但是，在确定女孩所在位置上，美国也许能帮上忙。比如有报道说，她们已经被带到乍得湖中的一个岛上。那些岛少有人烟（整个区域曾经全部处于水下），植被也不多，所以卫星影像或侦查飞行器也许可以找到她们。
In the past, Nigeria’s army, while reluctant to fight Boko Haram militants directly, has gone after young men it thinks might sympathize with the group — rounding up and sometimes killing them, thus driving more villagers toward Boko Haram. It’s entirely possible that some families that lost a daughter to Boko Haram will now lose a son to the army, but outspoken United States monitoring can help limit atrocities.
在过去，尼日利亚陆军不愿和博科圣地发生直接对抗，与此同时却下手惩治它认为同情该组织的一些年轻男性——将他们集中起来，有时还会动手杀人，从而促使更多的村民倒向博科圣地。一些已经被博科圣地夺走女儿的家庭，完全有可能又被军队夺走儿子，但美国进行公开的监控应该可以限制这种暴行。
All of us can respond more directly. Boko Haram, whose name means roughly “Western education is a sin,” is keeping women and girls marginalized; conversely, we can help educate and empower women. Ultimately, the greatest threat to extremism isn’t a drone overhead but a girl with a book.
我们每一个人都可以做出更直接的回应。博科圣地这个名字大意是“西式教育是一种罪”，该组织要保持女人和女孩的边缘化；相反地，我们可以去教育她们，赋权给她们。最终，能给极端主义造成最大威胁的，不是头顶的无人机，而是拿着书本的女孩。
So here’s a challenge.
那么，我来请大家接受一个挑战。
Mother’s Day is this Sunday, and, by all means, let’s use it to celebrate the moms in our lives with flowers and brunches. But let’s also use the occasion to honor the girls still missing in Nigeria.
这个周日是母亲节，我们当然少不了要用花朵和早午餐来赞颂自己生活中的妈妈。但同时，也让我们借这个机会，来向那些至今下落不明的尼日利亚姑娘表达敬意。
One way is a donation to support girls going to school around Africa through the Campaign for Female Education, Camfed.org; a $40 gift pays for a girl’s school uniform.
其中一个办法是通过女性教育平等活动(Campaign for Female Education)的Camfed.org捐款，支持非洲的女孩上学；40美元的馈赠够给一个女孩买一身校服。
Another way to empower women is to support Edna Adan, an extraordinary Somali woman who has started her own maternity hospital, midwife training program and private university, saving lives, providing family planning and fighting female genital mutilation. At EdnaHospital.org, a $50 donation pays for a safe hospital delivery.
还有一个赋权给女性的办法是支持埃德娜·阿丹(Edna Adan)。这位了不起的索马里女性开办了自己的妇产医院、助产士培训项目和私立大学，治病救人，提供计划生育服务，反抗女性生殖器切割。在EdnaHospital.org上捐50美元，可以资助进行一次安全的医院分娩。
Or there’s the Mothers’ Day Movement, mothersdaymovement.org, which is supporting a clean water initiative in Uganda. With access to water, some girls will no longer have to drop out of school to haul water.
还有母亲节运动(Mothers’ Day Movement)的网站mothersdaymovement.org。该组织正在乌干达支持一项净水项目。有了汲水途径，一些女孩就不必再为了取水而退学了。