A while back I published an article titled “The Rich, the Right, and the Facts,” in which I described politically motivated efforts to deny the obvious — the sharp rise in U.S. inequality, especially at the very top of the income scale. It probably won’t surprise you to hear that I found a lot of statistical malpractice in high places.
我曾经发表了一篇题为《富人、右翼和事实》(The Rich, the Right, and the Facts)的文章，文中描述一些人出于政治动机，否认一些显而易见的事实——美国的不平等现象大幅加剧，特别是顶级富豪们变得更加富有了。我发现一些身居高位的人在统计数据上做了手脚，对此你可能也不会感到惊讶。
Nor will it surprise you to learn that nothing much has changed. Not only do the usual suspects continue to deny the obvious, but they keep rolling out the same discredited arguments: Inequality isn’t really rising; O.K., it’s rising, but it doesn’t matter because we have so much social mobility; anyway, it’s a good thing, and anyone who suggests that it’s a problem is a Marxist.
得知情况现在没有太大改变，你可能也不会感到惊讶。那些“惯犯”不仅继续否认显而易见的事实，而且还反复唱着那些已被拆穿的同样反调：不平等并非真的在加剧；好吧，它是在加剧，但是那不要紧，因为我们社会的流动性非常大；无论如何这都是一件好事，任何觉得它成问题的人都是马克思主义者。
What may surprise you is the year in which I published that article: 1992.
可能会让你大吃一惊的，是我发表那篇文章的年份：1992年。
Which brings me to the latest intellectual scuffle, set off by an article by Chris Giles, the economics editor of The Financial Times, attacking the credibility of Thomas Piketty’s best-selling “Capital in the Twenty-First Century.” Mr. Giles claimed that Mr. Piketty’s work made “a series of errors that skew his findings,” and that there is in fact no clear evidence of rising concentration of wealth. And like just about everyone who has followed such controversies over the years, I thought, “Here we go again.”
这就带出了最新的一场知识界的混战。这场混战是英国《金融时报》经济新闻编辑克里斯·贾尔斯(Chris Giles)撰文攻击托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)的畅销书《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)所引发的。贾尔斯声称，皮克提作品中存在“一系列错误，从而扭曲了他的结论”，事实上并不存在证明财富愈发集中在少数人手中的确凿证据。多年来一直在关注这种争论的每个人可能都在想，“又来了”，我也是一样。
Sure enough, the subsequent discussion has not gone well for Mr. Giles. The alleged errors were actually the kinds of data adjustments that are normal in any research that relies on a variety of sources. And the crucial assertion that there is no clear trend toward increased concentration of wealth rested on a known fallacy, an apples-to-oranges comparison that experts have long warned about — and that I identified in that 1992 article.
果然，随后的讨论对贾尔斯不利。他指责的错误，实际上对于任何有赖于多种来源的研究来说，都是正常的数据调整。而他的重要论断，即没有明显的财富集中度增加的趋势，则是基于一个已经为人所周知的谬论。专家早就警告过，这种谬论相当于把苹果和橘子做比较——而且我在1992年的那篇文章里也辨识过这个谬论。
At the risk of giving too much information, here’s the issue. We have two sources of evidence on both income and wealth: surveys, in which people are asked about their finances, and tax data. Survey data, while useful for tracking the poor and the middle class, notoriously understate top incomes and wealth — loosely speaking, because it’s hard to interview enough billionaires. So studies of the 1 percent, the 0.1 percent, and so on rely mainly on tax data. The Financial Times critique, however, compared older estimates of wealth concentration based on tax data with more recent estimates based on surveys; this produced an automatic bias against finding an upward trend.
以下内容的信息量可能有点太大，但事情是这样的：无论是对收入还是对财富，我们都有两种证据的来源：一是调查问卷，人们会被问及自己的财务和税收数据。虽然用调查问卷数据来跟踪穷人和中产阶级的状况很有用，但是它会明显低估顶级富豪的收入和财富——不严格地说，因为你很难调查足够多的亿万富翁。所以对这1%，或者0.1%的富豪的研究，主要得靠税收数据。但是，《金融时报》的批评文章把以前的基于税收数据的估计，和新的基于调查问卷的估计进行了对比；这就自然而然形成了一个偏差，抵消了财富集中程度加剧的趋势。
In short, this latest attempt to debunk the notion that we’ve become a vastly more unequal society has itself been debunked. And you should have expected that. There are so many independent indicators pointing to sharply rising inequality, from the soaring prices of high-end real estate to the booming markets for luxury goods, that any claim that inequality isn’t rising almost has to be based on faulty data analysis.
总之，这个希望推翻“我们的社会已经变得更加不平等”的最新尝试，本身已被推翻。这应该没有出乎你的意料。从高端房地产价格的飙升，到奢侈品市场蓬勃发展，有如此之多的独立指标，都显示了社会不平等的状况在大幅加剧，任何声称不平等状况没有加剧的主张，几乎都可以肯定是在进行数据分析时出了错。
Yet inequality denial persists, for pretty much the same reasons that climate change denial persists: there are powerful groups with a strong interest in rejecting the facts, or at least creating a fog of doubt. Indeed, you can be sure that the claim “The Piketty numbers are all wrong” will be endlessly repeated even though that claim quickly collapsed under scrutiny.
然而，否认不平等的人仍然存在，这和否认气候变化的人仍然存在道理是一样的：拒绝承认这个事实，或者至少放出一些烟雾弹，符合一些权势群体的利益。事实上，“皮克提的数字全错了”这种说法肯定还会反复涌现，尽管只要认真检查一下，它们就会迅速崩溃。
By the way, I’m not accusing Mr. Giles of being a hired gun for the plutocracy, although there are some self-proclaimed experts who fit that description. And nobody’s work should be considered above criticism. But on politically charged issues, critics of the consensus need to be self-aware; they need to ask whether they’re really seeking intellectual honesty, or are effectively acting as concern trolls, professional debunkers of liberal pieties. (Strange to say, there are no trolls on the right debunking conservative pieties. Funny how that works.)
顺便说一句，我不是在指责贾尔斯为虎作伥，虽然也有一些自诩为专家的人是那样做的。没有哪个人的观点应该凌驾于批评之上。但在充满政治色彩的问题上，批评某个共识的人必须有一些自我意识；他们需要扪心自问：自己真的是在追求智识上的诚实，还是在专唱反调，成为打击自由派信念的专业“打假”人士。（说来也怪，目前在右翼还没有专门批评保守派信念的反调分子。怎么会这样，真是搞笑。）
So here’s what you need to know: Yes, the concentration of both income and wealth in the hands of a few people has increased greatly over the past few decades. No, the people receiving that income and owning that wealth aren’t an ever-shifting group: People move fairly often from the bottom of the 1 percent to the top of the next percentile and vice versa, but both rags to riches and riches to rags stories are rare — inequality in average incomes over multiple years isn’t much less than inequality in a given year. No, taxes and benefits don’t greatly change the picture — in fact, since the 1970s big tax cuts at the top have caused after-tax inequality to rise faster than inequality before taxes.
你需要知道的是这些：是的，收入和财富集中到少数人手中的程度，在过去几十年里大大增加。但取得这些收入、拥有这些财富的人，并不是一直变动的群体。底层的1%人口收入提高，向上流动一个百分点的区间，这是颇为常见的情形，反之亦然。然而从赤贫变成富豪，或者从富豪陷于赤贫的故事，却十分少见——多年时间里平均收入的不平等，与某个特定年份的不平等相比，并没有低多少。税收和福利并不会很大地改变局面。实际上，自上世纪70年代以来，对收入最高的阶层实行的减税，导致税后不平等的加剧比税前不平等的加剧更快。
This picture makes some people uncomfortable, because it plays into populist demands for higher taxes on the rich. But good ideas don’t need to be sold on false pretenses. If the argument against populism rests on bogus claims about inequality, you should consider the possibility that the populists are right.
这种局面令一些人感到不安，因为这符合对富人加税的民粹主义诉求。然而好主意不需要用虚假的借口来宣扬。如果反驳民粹主义的论调，要依靠对不平等做出虚假的表述，那么你应该考虑这样一种可能性：民粹主义者或许是正确的。