From Hollywood’s court docket:
来自好莱坞的法庭判决摘要：
The battle lines are taking shape in what is certain to be a sharp fight — and possibly a long one — over the film ratings system and the way it handles smoking.
关于电影分级制度以及它对吸烟镜头的处理这一斗争正在拉开战线，且注定会激烈而持久。
The dispute centers on a class-action complaint seeking to prevent films with tobacco imagery from receiving G, PG or PG-13 ratings from the Motion Picture Association of America.
这场争论的中心是一场集体诉讼，目的是阻止含有吸烟场景的电影获得美国电影协会(Motion Picture Association of America)的G、PG或PG-13评级。
On Monday, the complaint — which was filed last month against the major film studios, theater owners and their ratings system — was assigned to Judge Richard Seeborg, a 2009 Obama appointee who will now oversee the dispute in federal court.
这一诉讼是上个月提出的，针对的是大电影公司、院线所有者，以及他们的电影分级制度。周一，这场诉讼交由奥巴马总统2009年任命的法官理查德·泽伯格(Richard Seeborg)审理，该案将在联邦法院进行。
Days earlier, lawyers for the studios and the motion picture association had objected in a filing to the assignment of the case to a magistrate. If nothing else, the move signaled they were paying close attention.
几天前，电影公司和电影协会的律师们起诉反对将此案交由地方法官审理。这一举动至少表明，他们在密切关注此案。
The companies have not answered the complaint, which was filed on Feb. 25 in San Francisco by a parent, Timothy Forsyth.
这些公司尚未回应诉讼。这一诉讼是旧金山的一位家长蒂莫西·福赛思(Timothy Forsyth)在2月25日提起的。
But it is hard to imagine they will not vigorously pursue the dismissal of a suit that accuses the ratings system of negligence and fraud, and asks the court to, in effect, force an R rating on virtually any movie that portrays tobacco use.
不过，不难想像他们会努力请求法院驳回这一诉讼。这一诉讼指控电影分级制度玩忽职守、欺诈，请求法院要求将所有含有吸烟画面的电影评为R级。
Antismoking activists have long contended that such a move would save lives by reducing the number of young smokers.
反对吸烟的活动家们长期以来一直认为，这样的举措能减少年轻吸烟者的数量，从而挽救生命。
But judicial interference might also crack the ratings system wide open, exposing it to similar challenges by those who would like to see tougher ratings for portrayals of gun violence or drug use.
但是，司法干预可能会导致电影分级制度口子大开，其他人可能会要求对含有枪支暴力或吸毒镜头的电影实行更严格的分级。
Key decisions are still months away. But the Forsyth suit, currently just a skirmish in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, has the look of a future battle royale — perhaps the biggest since 1968, when Jack Valenti, then president of the motion picture association, established the voluntary ratings system with an eye toward keeping the courts and lawmakers away.
关键性决定要到几个月后才会做出。目前，福赛斯诉讼案只是在加利福尼亚州北部地区的美国地方法院进行的小规模战斗，但未来它可能会演变成一场大战——也许会成为1968年电影分级制度设立以来最大的一场战斗。当年，美国电影协会时任主席杰克·瓦伦蒂(Jack Valenti)主动设立电影分级制度，以期减少法院和立法者的干预。