As Ahmed Kathrada led President Obama and his family recently through the prison on Robben Island where Mr. Kathrada had spent much of his life, he explained how the rules of apartheid had granted him, because of his Indian ancestry, long pants and socks. One of his fellow inmates, Nelson Mandela, as a black man, received short pants and no socks.
不久前，艾哈迈德·卡特拉达(Ahmed Kathrada)领着奥巴马总统及其家人参观了罗本岛监狱。卡特拉达生命中的很长时间都在这里度过，他向奥巴马解释，按照种族隔离的规则，由于他是印度裔，可以获取长裤和袜子。他的狱友之一，纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)，由于是黑人，只得到了短裤，没有袜子。
Mr. Kathrada, 83, also showed the Obamas the sign listing the different amounts of sugar, coffee, soup and other foods that South Africa’s prison system had apportioned to blacks; mixed-race inmates, who were known as coloreds; Indians; and whites.
现年83岁的卡特拉达还让奥巴马一家看一张告示牌，上面列出了南非监狱体系分配给黑人、混血（被称为有色人种）、印裔和白人囚犯的糖、咖啡和汤等食物的不同分量。
“In everything there was apartheid,” he said in an interview later in his small apartment here in the shadow of Table Mountain.
“种族隔离无所不在，”他后来在桌山脚下的自家小公寓里接受采访时这样说道。
For nearly 20 years, Mr. Kathrada, an African National Congress activist who later served in the Mandela administration, has led heads of state and global celebrities through Mr. Mandela’s steps on Robben Island. In 1994, five years after Mr. Kathrada’s release, Mr. Mandela asked him to take on the role of a guide, given the number of people who wanted to visit the prison site. Margaret Thatcher (“She called us terrorists,” he said). Fidel Castro (“My hero”). Jane Fonda. Beyoncé. Mr. Obama twice.
卡特拉达是非洲人国民大会（African National Congress，简称ANC）的活动人士，后来在曼德拉政府任职。在近20年里，他领着各国元首和世界名人来罗本岛追随曼德拉的脚步。1994年，卡特拉达获释五年后，曼德拉请求他充当向导，因为有太多人希望参观这座监狱的所在地。他曾给玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)（“她曾把我们称为恐怖分子，”他说）、菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)（“我的英雄”）、简·方达(Jane Fonda)和碧昂斯(Beyoncé)带路，并两次带奥巴马参观。
He recalled the absence of children as “the greatest deprivation” of his years in jail. He has no children of his own. But when asked if his decades in the struggle against apartheid had cost him his chance, Mr. Kathrada insisted they had not.
卡特拉达回忆说，监狱生涯对人“最大的剥夺”是见不到子女。他没有自己的孩子。不过，当被问到是否是数十年与种族隔离的斗争害他丧失了机会，他坚称不是。
“I have no regrets,” said Mr. Kathrada, who lives with his partner, Barbara Hogan, a white former political prisoner and a cabinet minister during the presidency of Kgalema Motlanthe, who served for eight months following the resignation of Thabo Mbeki in 2008.
“我没有遗憾，”卡特拉达说。他现在和伴侣芭芭拉·霍根(Barbara Hogan)生活在一起。霍根曾是一名白人政治犯，在卡莱马·莫特兰蒂总统(Kgalema Motlanthe)的内阁中担任过部长。塔博·姆贝基(Thabo Mbeki)于2008年辞职后，莫特兰蒂担任了八个月的代理总统。
Mr. Kathrada runs a foundation in his name dedicated to fighting racism.
卡特拉达如今管理着以自己名字命名的一个基金会，致力于抗击种族主义。
Sacrifice, often unacknowledged — even by activists themselves, even now — is typical of Mr. Kathrada’s generation of anti-apartheid leaders. The living example that the leaders of the movement provided has come again to the fore in the weeks Mr. Mandela has been clinging to his life in a Pretoria hospital.
对卡特拉达那一代反种族隔离运动领袖而言，做出牺牲是惯常之事。这种牺牲往往没有获得承认，就算是活动人士本人也不以为意，直到现在还是这样。曼德拉在比勒陀利亚的一家医院生命垂危的几周里，这些运动领袖提供的活生生的例子再次变得重要起来。
During the sometimes rocky transition to democracy, many South Africans drew faith from the former Robben Island prisoners’ dedication to their cause, even against the longest odds, and their eventual triumph.
这些曾经的罗本岛囚徒不顾极大的困难，投入到自己的事业中，并最终取得了胜利。在时有起伏的民主过渡期里，许多南非人曾从他们身上汲取信念。
If, for all those years, the thinking went, they could have faith in a new South Africa, then surely South Africans who endured far less could do so today.
这背后的想法是，如果在那么多年的岁月里他们都能保持对新南非的信念，那么，经受了少得多的磨难的南非人现在也肯定能做到这一点。
Before Mr. Kathrada and his co-defendants were sentenced to a life of hard labor in 1964, they were certain the apartheid state would execute them, Mr. Kathrada recalled as the setting sun painted Table Mountain ocher, white and rust. In the end, the government did not want to create martyrs to the cause. “The Afrikaners knew from their own history how martyrs could be exploited,” he explained.
卡特拉达及其同案被告于1964年被判处终生苦役。判刑前，他们确信，南非这个种族隔离的国家会处决他们，卡特拉达还记得当时夕阳将桌山渲染成赭、白、赤三色。不过最后，政府不想给反种族隔离事业创造殉道者。“南非白人从自身的历史中了解到，殉道者可以发挥多大的作用，”他解释道。
On his guided tours, Mr. Kathrada also points out a sign of hope in the form of a concrete block with the words “A.N.C. is sure of victory. 1967.”
做向导的时候，卡特拉达还会指出一块混凝土砖块。这是一块标志着希望的砖块，上书“ANC必胜。1967”。
“The 1960s were the worst period, inside and outside of jail,” he said, “and the optimism never left us. We knew we were going to win.”
他说，“无论是在狱内还是狱外，20世纪60年代的情况都是最糟糕的。但我们一直都很乐观。我们知道自己会胜利。”
Family, even absent family, was at the center of the prisoners’ experience. Though Mr. Kathrada quit school after he joined his first protest at the age of 17, he completed four university degrees on Robben Island. He could do so only because his family had the money to pay tuition.
家人是他们牢狱生活的中心，即便他们不在眼前。虽然在17岁首次参加抗议之后，卡特拉达就辍学了，但他还是在罗本岛上取得了四个大学学位。他能够如此，只是因为他的家庭付得起学费。
Mr. Kathrada was 34 when he, Mr. Mandela and six other anti-apartheid leaders were sentenced to a life of hard labor in the quarry of Robben Island, apartheid’s most infamous island prison. They would spend 18 years there, followed by nearly a decade in Pollsmoor prison, in the Cape Town suburb of Tokai.
34岁时，卡特拉达、曼德拉及其他六名反种族隔离领袖，被判在罗本岛的采石场进行终生苦役。罗本岛是种族隔离制度下最臭名昭著的监狱。他们在那里渡过了18年，然后在开普敦得凯郊区的波尔斯穆监狱渡过了近10年。
Mr. Mandela and the inmates with wives and children endured a particular pain, Mr. Kathrada said. “Their families suffered much more than others. They were detained, they were banished, they were exiled. But they never allowed that to get preference over their responsibilities toward their fellow prisoners.”
他说，曼德拉和其他那些家有妻小的狱友，遭受的痛苦尤其深重。他说，“他们的家人比别人承受的多得多。他们的家人被拘捕、被驱逐、被流放。但是，他们从来不会因此而使家人高于他们对狱友的责任。
WHEN one of Mr. Mandela’s nephews, who was the head of one of the apartheid government’s black homelands, wanted to visit him, Mr. Mandela put it to a vote of comrades.
曼德拉有一个侄子是种族隔离政府统治下一块黑人保留地的领导人。当这位侄子想要探望他时，曼德拉要同志们投票决定。
The nephew had buried Mr. Mandela’s mother and one of his children. But the other prisoners voted against the visit, and Mr. Mandela wrote to his nephew, saying he could not come.
这位侄子曾安葬曼德拉的母亲和他的一个孩子。但是，曼德拉的狱友们投票反对他来探视。于是，曼德拉写信告诉他不能来。
Still, Mr. Kathrada said the prisoners of Robben Island — who included Jacob Zuma, the current president — had it better than their comrades on the outside.
尽管如此，卡特拉达仍称，包括现任总统雅各布·祖玛(Jacob Zuma)在内的罗本岛狱友们，比狱外的同志们情况好得多。
“No policeman could come to Robben Island and start shooting at us,” he said. “In the Soweto uprising of 1976, we are told, 600 kids were killed. Others, people we knew closely, tortured to death, shot, assassinated. We were safe.”
他说，“没有警察会来罗本岛向我们开枪。我们被告知，在1976年索韦托起义中，600个孩子被杀。其他那些我们熟悉的人，则被拷打至死、被枪击、被暗杀。但我们很安全。”
He said the prisoners were also sustained by the example of their leaders. “The work at the quarry with pick and shovels, they were there with us. Hunger strikes, they were there with us. Madiba was offered the same food as we were getting, the clothing,” he said, using the clan name by which Mr. Mandela is widely known.
他说，领袖们以身作则，鼓舞了狱友们。他说，“他们跟大家一起在采石场干重活儿。他们跟大家一起进行绝食抗议。马迪巴(Madiba)的吃穿用度跟我们一样。”马迪巴是曼德拉广为人知的族名。
For all its historic triumph, Mr. Kathrada said, the A.N.C. faces a much more varied set of problems today than it did when the apartheid system was its sole focus.
卡特拉达说，尽管ANC在历史上有种种成就，但其过去唯一的关注点是种族隔离制度，而现在ANC面对的问题比那个时代更加多种多样。
“Our challenge is poverty, hunger, unemployment disease, children without schools, street children who haven’t got homes, AIDS orphans, thousands and thousands of them,” he said.
他说，“我们的挑战是贫穷、饥饿、失业、疾病，是失学儿童、没有家的街头流浪儿和艾滋孤儿，这样的孩子人数极多。”
“So perhaps the challenges now are greater than smashing apartheid.”
“所以，可能我们现在面临的挑战比打破种族隔离制度大得多。”