LONDON — Queen Elizabeth II, the longest-reigning monarch on the planet, is not afraid to spill tea.
伦敦——英国女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)，全球在位时间最长的君主，并不怕披露八卦。
The queen opens up the vault, if you will, in a BBC documentary that examines what she calls her “horrible coronation” nearly 65 years ago.
可以这么说，在一部BBC的纪录片中，女王打开了她的密匣，该片回顾了近65年前她所谓的“可怕的加冕典礼”。
Her dry sense of humor is on full display as she trots out the crown she wore and gives deadpan reviews about the lavish and long ceremony, summing up what it all means in an interview with the royal family reporter Alastair Bruce.
在接受王室记者阿拉斯泰尔·布鲁斯(Alastair Bruce)采访时，女王展示了她的冷幽默，她拿出自己当时戴的王冠，并且对这场奢华而冗长的仪式发表了不动声色的评论，对这一切到底意味着什么进行了总结。
He told InStyle that she had described the 1953 coronation as a “pretty challenging day for her as a 25-year-old.” The monarch also watched scenes of the coronation she had never seen before.
布鲁斯告诉《InStyle》杂志，女王将1953年的加冕仪式描述为“对25岁的她而言颇具挑战的一天”。女王还观看了该仪式上一些她之前从未看过的片段。
Here’s what we learned from “The Coronation,” which will be broadcast Sunday on BBC One at 8 local time in Britain and on the Smithsonian Channel at 8 p.m. Eastern in the United States.
《加冕典礼》(The Coronation)将由BBC一台(BBC One)于当地时间周日晚八点在英国播出，史密森尼频道(Smithsonian Channel)东部时间晚八点在美国播出。以下是我们从该片中了解到的内容。
A gilded carriage isn’t as much fun as you’d think.
乘坐一辆镀金马车没你想的那么有趣。
“Horrible,” she opined of riding in the enormous golden carriage. “It’s only sprung on leather, not very comfortable. We could only go at a walking pace. The horses couldn’t possibly go any faster. It’s so heavy.”
“太可怕了，”女王这样描述坐在巨大金色马车里的感受。“只是在皮革上弹跳，不是很舒服。我们只能用步行的速度走。马不可能走得更快。太重了。”
Asked if she was in the carriage for a long time, she replied dryly, “Halfway around London.”
当被问到她是否在马车里待了很长一段时间时，女王干巴巴地回答，“绕了伦敦半圈。”
The big day began with her parading around the British capital, going from Buckingham Palace to Westminster Abbey and stopping at Trafalgar Square.
那重要的一天是从她围绕英国首都游行开始的，从白金汉宫(Buckingham Palace)到西敏寺(Westminster Abbey)，并中途在特拉法加广场(Trafalgar Square)停顿。
Bruce told InStyle: “There is a tradition in the English coronation that if you have a monarch who slips or drops something or anything like that — in fact, Richard II’s slipper fell off when he was being carried back to bed because he had fallen asleep during the ceremony, and everyone saw that as a bad omen.
布鲁斯告诉《InStyle》：“英国的加冕典礼有一个传统，如果君主滑倒或掉了什么东西之类的——实际上，理查二世(Richard II)在他的加冕典礼上睡着了；在被抬回床上时，他的拖鞋掉了，所有人都把它看成一个不详的预兆。”
“That sort of pressure that you mustn’t make an error, for the first time being filmed and televised to the world: This is a huge challenge, I would imagine, for anybody to perform without fault through a medieval ceremony that has unbelievable symbolism and meaning.”
“那种你必须不犯一个错、首次被拍摄并通过电视向全世界播出的压力：我可以想像，要完美地表演完一场承载了难以想像的象征性和意义的中世纪仪式，这对谁都是一个巨大的挑战。”
The crown was too big for her head.
皇冠对她的头来说太大了。
And heavy.
而且很重。
The version of the Imperial State Crown that the queen wore at the end of the ceremony was also donned by her father, George VI, at his coronation in 1937.
女王的父亲乔治六世(George VI)在他1937年的加冕典礼上，也戴了她在仪式结束时所戴的那顶帝国皇冠(Imperial State Crown)。
It is set with 2,868 diamonds, 17 sapphires, 11 emeralds and hundreds of pearls. It features a gemstone known as the Black Prince’s Ruby, believed to have been worn by Henry V at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415.
皇冠上镶了2868颗钻石、17颗蓝宝石、11颗绿宝石，以及几百颗珍珠。有传言称，它上面有一颗被称为“黑王子红宝石”的宝石，据信亨利五世(Henry V)于1415年在阿金库尔战役(Battle of Agincourt)中佩戴过。
The rest of her regalia was already a handful, but the crown was its own challenge. So she practiced wearing it before the coronation, while going about her ordinary day, such as reading the newspaper or taking tea.
其他的王位标志已经够麻烦了，但皇冠本身就是一项挑战。因此女王在加冕仪式前就练习戴着它进行日常的生活，比如读报纸或喝茶。
The crown, which she has worn for most state openings of Parliament since the coronation, was adapted slightly after the death of her father, with its arches lowered to create a smaller, more feminine object for the queen.
加冕典礼之后，女王在大多数的议会开幕大典(state openings of Parliament)上都会戴这顶皇冠。在她的父亲去世后，这顶皇冠稍微地修改了一下，它的穹被降低，调整成了一顶更小、更具有女性气质的皇冠。
“You see, it’s much smaller isn’t it?” she says in a BBC trailer, gesturing to the height of the crown’s arches. It had been “very unwieldy,” she added.
“你看，它是不是小多了？”女王指着皇冠的穹的高度，在BBC发布的预告片中说。她补充道，它以前“非常笨重”。
“Fortunately, my father and I have about the same sort of shaped head. But once you put it on it stays. I mean, it just remains on.”
“好在，我和父亲的头形一样。但你只要一把它戴上，它就会留在那里。我的意思是，它纹丝不动。”
The crown could break your neck.
皇冠可以让你扭断脖子。
The queen notes that the crown forces one to take a certain posture when giving a speech.
女王提到，这顶皇冠迫使你在发表演讲时采用一种特定的仪态。
“You can’t look down to read the speech; you have to take the speech up,” she said, “because if you did, your neck would break; it would fall off,” she said, smiling.
“你不能低头去读讲稿；你必须把稿子举起来，”她说，“因为如果你低头，你的脖子就会扭断；它就会掉下去，”她微笑着说。
“So there are some disadvantages to crowns, but otherwise they’re quite important things.”
“皇冠有一些不便之处，但在其他方面，它们是非常重要的物品。”
The Crown Jewels were once buried in a biscuit tin.
皇冠上的珠宝曾经被藏在饼干罐里。
The Crown Jewels are usually kept under armed guard at the Tower of London. But gemstones from the collection were hidden in a biscuit (cookie) tin at Windsor Castle for safekeeping during World War II to keep them out of the hands of the Nazis.
皇冠上的宝石通常被安放于伦敦塔内，由武装警卫看守。但出于安全考虑，这批宝石曾在第二次世界大战中被藏在了温莎城堡的饼干罐中，以防它们落入纳粹手中。
The stones, including the Black Prince’s Ruby from the Imperial State Crown, were placed in the metal box and buried below a secret exit on the orders of King George VI.
包括帝国王冠上的“黑王子红宝石”在内，这些宝石都放在一个金属盒中，按乔治六世的命令埋在了一个秘密出口下方。
The rediscovery of those mysterious details were credited to Oliver Urquhart Irvine, the librarian and assistant keeper of the Royal Archives.
这些隐秘细节能被重新发现，还得归功于皇家档案馆(Royal Archives)的图书馆馆员、副保管奥利弗·厄克哈特·欧文(Oliver Urquhart Irvine)。
Documents describe a hole being dug in chalk earth, which had to be covered to hide it from enemy bombers, and two chambers with steel doors being created. The trap door used to access the secret area at Windsor Castle, where the queen spent the war years for safety, still exists.
文件记载，这个在白垩土中挖的洞，为了免受敌人的轰炸，需要隐蔽起来，于是建成两个装有金属门的洞穴。在战乱时期女王避难的温莎城堡内，通往密室的暗门至今还在。
The queen, who at one point in the documentary wonders aloud what she has done with her scepter (her own scepter!), intimates that her favorite gem in the Imperial State Crown is the Black Prince’s Ruby.
在纪录片里，女王一度说出内心的疑惑，自己用权杖（她自己的权杖！）究竟做了些什么，并称帝国王冠上她最喜欢的是那颗黑王子红宝石。
Her robes became stuck on the carpet.
女王的长袍被地毯卡住了。
The queen’s coronation gown and robes were so heavy that they got caught in a thick carpet pile as she glided through the abbey.
女王的加冕礼服和长袍非常厚重，以至于当她走过教堂时，礼服和长袍都被厚密的地毯绒头卡住了。
“I couldn’t move at all,” she declared.
“我完全动不了，”她表示。
The gown and robe were created by Norman Hartnell, the couturier who had made her wedding dress five years before, according to The Telegraph.
据《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)当时的报道，礼服和长袍由诺曼·哈特内尔(Norman Hartnell)缝制，这也是五年前为她制作婚纱的裁缝。
Hartnell and the queen chose motifs from across the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth: maple leaves for Canada, wheat sheaves for Pakistan, lotus flowers for South Africa, the English Rose, Welsh leeks, Scottish thistles and Irish shamrocks.
哈特内尔和女王选择了英国和英联邦各地的特色图案：加拿大的枫叶、巴基斯坦的麦穗、南非的荷花，还有英国玫瑰、威尔士韭葱、苏格兰蓟和爱尔兰三叶草。
Diamonds, crystals, pearls, amethysts and rose-color stones were used as twinkling embellishments to the gold and colored silk threads.
钻石、水晶、珍珠、紫水晶和玫瑰色的宝石闪亮地映衬着黄金和彩色的丝线。
Six embroiderers took 3,000 hours to complete the design.
6位绣工历经3000小时将其完成。
She told Churchill no.
她对丘吉尔说了“不”。
Elizabeth prepared for months for the coronation ceremony. Initially reluctant to have it televised, an idea strongly opposed by Prime Minister Winston Churchill, she eventually agreed to a live broadcast, and her coronation was the first major event televised around the globe.
伊丽莎白为了加冕典礼准备了数月。起初她并不愿意按首相温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)强烈反对的那样，用电视转播。但最终她同意了现场直播，使这次加冕典礼成为了全球首个通过电视播送的重大事件。
Looking back, she said: “It’s the sort of, I suppose, the beginning of one’s life, really, as a sovereign.
再回想起来，她说：“我想，这可以算是一个君主生命的真正开端。”
“It is sort of a pageant of chivalry and old-fashioned way of doing things, really. I’ve seen one coronation and been the recipient in the other, which is pretty remarkable.”
“这有点像是骑士制度的庆典和一种守旧的行事方式，真的。我观看过一次加冕典礼，也接受过一次加冕，这真的很不同寻常。”