Jason Wu has staked his reputation on designing polite, ladylike clothes for Hollywood good girls and the first lady. But he’s finally ready to show his wilder side. Wu’s bio reads like a Harvard case study on opportunity, complete with sitcom-ready anecdotes about his foreign-born parents.
吴季刚(Jason Wu)以给好莱坞好女孩和第一夫人设计文雅端庄的礼服而确立了自己的声誉。但他终于准备好展示自己狂野的一面。他的经历读起来像哈佛大学的机遇案例分析，里面充满了他在外国出生的父母（此处指台湾——编注）的很多趣闻轶事，简直是给情景喜剧准备的。
The sun is barely up, and already Las Vegas is steaming hot. Particularly at the Wynn’s “European Pool,” a topless watering hole with a blackjack table and full bar. It’s an unlikely spot to meet Jason Wu, a favorite designer of Michelle Obama, Michelle Williams and other Michelles with disposable incomes and good taste. Nevertheless, there he is, sipping piña coladas at 10 a.m., delivered by a handsome waiter named Dallas. Reclining poolside, Wu, dressed only in roulette-red Dsquared trunks, chuckles at the high frequency of barbed-wire tattoos passing by. “I’m not as polite as people think I am,” he says.
太阳还没完全升起，拉斯维加斯已经热气腾腾。特别是永利(Wynn)酒店的“欧洲泳池”，这是有一个无上装酒吧，里面还有二十一点赌桌和藏酒丰富的吧台。很难想象会在这里跟吴季刚会面，因为他是米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)、米歇尔·威廉姆斯(Michelle Williams)以及很多其他有可支配收入和优雅品味的“米歇尔们”钟爱的设计师。但是他就在这里，在上午10点啜饮果汁朗姆冰酒，给他上酒的是一个名叫达拉斯(Dallas)的帅气服务生。吴季刚斜倚在泳池边，只穿了一条Dsquared带有轮盘赌红色的短裤，看着过往行人身上频频出现的铁丝网纹身，他咯咯笑出了声。“我并不像人们想像得那么文雅，”他说。
It’s mid-June, and Wu and his partner, Gustavo Rangel (also his company’s C.F.O.), have come to Vegas to relax before a three-week European business trip — what will be their longest stretch away from the office, and also Wu’s first official tour of duty as the artistic director of Boss, Hugo Boss‘s women’s-wear collection. The trip started slowly. A misread sign at the airport led to a wrong exit; they were forced to take a crowded shuttle bus back to the terminal to collect their luggage. There was Wu, sardined into a dusty van, clutching his oversize creamy leather carry-on. “I don’t mind slumming sometimes,” he says, later. “I just wanted to get there.”
当时是6月中旬，吴季刚和他的伴侣古斯塔沃·兰格尔（Gustavo Rangel，也是吴季刚公司的首席财务官）来拉斯维加斯放松，然后开始为期三周的欧洲商务旅行——那是他们离开办公室最长的一段时间，也是吴季刚担任雨果·波士(Hugo Boss)女装创意总监之后的首次正式履职之行。这次度假开始得不太顺利。他们在机场看错指示牌，走错了出口，不得不坐上拥挤的摆渡车回航站楼取行李。吴挤进一个落满灰尘的面包车，抓着他的奶油色超大号皮质随身行李箱。“我不介意偶尔受点苦，”他后来说，“我乐意。”
Of course, it helps to know his destination is a 3,500-square-foot two-bedroom suite. Wu counts Mrs. Wynn as a client, and friendship has its privileges. A bottle of Veuve Clicquot is on ice. Massages are scheduled. As for the afternoon, a visit to the casino is planned. At the pool, Rangel, sipping a Bloody Mary, recalls teaching Wu to play blackjack. It was a $50 buy-in. “And Jason hit on 17!” Rangel says, horrified. Wu had committed a notorious rookie move, yet somehow he still won that hand — and several others. By nightfall, he’d amassed enough chips to pay cash for a $2,400 Dior bag he’d seen hanging in one of the resort’s shop windows. “It was luck,” Rangel insists.
当然，想到他的目的地是一个3500平方英尺的两居室套房，也许能感觉好一点。永利酒店的老板是吴季刚的客户，他们的友谊让他拥有一些特权。凯歌香槟(Veuve Clicquot)已经放到了冰块上。按摩已经安排好了。下午去赌场也计划就绪。在泳池边，兰格尔一边啜饮血腥玛丽鸡尾酒，一边回忆教吴季刚玩二十一点的情形。一手是50美元。“而他居然选了17！”兰格尔心有余悸地回忆道。吴犯了新手常犯的一个错误，但是不知为何他还是赢了那一手，后来又赢了几次。傍晚的时候，他积累的筹码足以支付一个2400美元的迪奥(Dior)手提包，那是他在这个度假酒店闲逛时在其中一个橱窗里看到的。兰格尔坚持认为“那是运气”。
“Was it luck?” Wu asks. “Or was it trusting your gut?”
“那是运气吗？”吴季刚问道，“还是对你胆量的考验？”
Intuition has served Wu well. What most people know about the 30-year-old designer centers largely around his association with the first lady; she wore him to both inaugurations, two unlikely coups chronicled extensively by the press. The first time because Wu was just 26 years old, an upstart so green he celebrated his breakthrough moment by ordering Domino’s Pizza. The second time because, well, there was a second time. “I knew the dress was going to be red,” Wu says. “We didn’t talk about it — me and the first lady. It just felt right.” The P.R. value of that moment cannot be underestimated. Yet Wu appears to know that for every Arnold Scaasi (a household name who dressed Mamie Eisenhower and Laura Bush), there is another Sarah Phillips (Hillary Clinton). And he’s determined to make his collaboration with Obama a shiny data point in a very varied and very rich career.
吴季刚的直觉很好。大部分人对这位30岁的设计师的了解，主要围绕着他与第一夫人的联系——她两次参加就职仪式都是身穿他设计的礼服，这两次极为难得的成就被媒体广泛报道。第一次是因为他当时才26岁，还是个自命不凡的新手，青涩的他点了多米诺披萨来庆祝自己的突破性时刻。第二次是因为，呃，是第二次嘛。“我知道第二件礼服将是红色的，”吴说，“我们没有讨论过这一点，我是说我和第一夫人。不过那个颜色就是感觉很对。”那个时刻的公关价值不容低估。但是吴似乎知道哪里有阿诺德·斯嘉锡（Arnold Scaasi，一个礼服品牌，玛米·艾森豪威尔[Mamie Eisenhower]和劳拉·布什[Laura Bush]曾穿过这个品牌的礼服参加就职仪式），哪里就有另一个莎拉·菲利普斯（Sarah Phillips，另一个礼服品牌，希拉里·克林顿[Hillary Clinton]参加就职仪式时穿的品牌）。他下定决心要把自己与奥巴马夫人的合作，变成自己非常多样化而丰富的事业中的一个亮点。
If there’s a criticism levied against Wu, it’s that he collaborates too often. He’s the James Franco of fashion, making candles for Nest, faucets for Brizo and a line of furniture for Canvas, among other offshoots. (His rebuttal: He’s curating his world.) This month, his first effort for Lancôme hits department stores — a signature makeup collection featuring an eye shadow palette called “Excuse My Beauty.” The name is inspired by a quote from an episode of RuPaul’s “Drag Race,” the cult drag queen pageant show, and one of Wu’s favorites. The producers recently offered him a guest judge slot, but he reluctantly turned it down. “It felt off-brand,” he says. “I made a rule not to be on reality shows. But I really wanted to do it.”
如果说人们对吴有什么批评的话，那就是他与其他品牌的合作太频繁了。他是时装界的詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)，给Nest设计蜡烛，给Brizo设计水龙头，给Canvas设计家具，另外还跟其他一些品牌有合作（他的解释是：他在策划自己的世界）。本月，他给兰蔻(Lancôme)设计的第一套化妆品在商场亮相，其特色是一个名叫“对不起我的美人”(Excuse My Beauty)的眼影调色板。这个名字的灵感来源是鲁保罗(RuPaul)的“变装皇后秀”(Drag Race)某一集中的一句台词。那是一个另类的男扮女装表演节目，是吴最喜欢的节目之一。那个节目的制作人们最近请他担任嘉宾裁判，但是他犹豫再三还是拒绝了。“那感觉有点不务正业，”他说，“我定了个规矩，不参与真人秀。但是我当时真的很想参加。”
It’s hard to imagine Wu appearing on a program whose tag line is “Lip-sync for your life.” In interviews with, say, Anderson Cooper or in the recent documentary “Scatter My Ashes at Bergdorf’s,” he cuts a refined figure, befitting a designer celebrated for exquisite ladylike tailoring, one who’s often cited as a likely successor to the Oscar de la Rentas and Carolina Herreras of New York fashion. He acknowledges he’s been complicit in molding his public image. “I make very proper clothes,” he says. “But I was never that person. For a long time, I thought that was the image I needed to have for my brand. And I thought that’s the person that I needed to be. Because it gave me a distinct image that no one can deny. Everyone — whether you liked it or not — knew what I was about and the kind of clothes I made. I was on message.”
很难想像吴出现在一个以“为你的生活对口型”(Lip-sync for your life)为口号的节目中。在接受安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)的采访时或者在最近的纪录片《把我的骨灰撒在波道夫商场》(Scatter My Ashes at Bergdorf’s)中，他推翻了自己的文雅形象。他以设计文雅端庄的服装闻名，经常被认为是纽约时装界的奥斯卡·德·拉·朗塔斯(Oscar de la Rentas)和卡洛琳娜·海勒拉斯(Carolina Herreras)的继承人，所以这个形象很适合他。他承认自己也在塑造这样的公众形象。“我制作非常端庄的衣服，”他说，“但我从来都不是那样的人。有很长一段时间，我曾经以为为了我的品牌我需要保持那样的形象，甚至以为自己需要变成那样的人。因为它给了我一个无人能否定的独特形象。当时每个人——不管你喜欢与否——都知道我是哪种人，我做哪种衣服。我也曾顺从这个形象。”
But even the most expensive garment can start to chafe if it doesn’t fit properly. In the face of startling success, Wu had self-doubts: “Young designers were expected to be edgier and more downtown and way cool. The kind of clothes I make don’t speak to that. And I doubted myself for a long time.”
但是如果不合适，连最昂贵的衣服也可能擦痛皮肤。面对惊人的成功，吴也产生了自我怀疑：“人们都期待年轻设计师们更锋利、更都市化、更酷。我做的衣服不是那种风格。我因此对自己怀疑了很长时间。”
Anyone who still thinks Wu’s clothing is safe hasn’t been paying attention. His 2009 collection may have been inspired by “fairy tales,” but his spring 2013 line was ripped from an entirely different book. It was a “Fifty Shades of Grey”-Helmut Newton mash-up, complete with Carolyn Murphy in a black leather sheath. “The collection was really about the body and sensuality,” Wu says, “with a lot of bondage references. It’s one of my favorite collections. It was something that really spoke to who I am. I’m a bit of a thrill seeker.” His most recent 2014 resort collection wasn’t as sexually aggressive, but it was sophisticated with a wink. Like his silk denim tees, which are an immigrant’s sly joke on Americana. “I’m an American designer,” he says. “It’s important to riff on that. I remember, when my mom and I first came to the states, she was so shocked that everyone was so dressed down in sandals and shorts. It’s not quite like that in Asia. To give that a superluxurious makeover? For me to make street wear? It’s sort of chic to do it.”
所有依然认为吴的衣服很安全的人都没有仔细观察。他2009年的系列可能是从童话故事中获得灵感，但是他的2013春季系列则源于一本完全不同的书，它是《格雷的50道阴影》(Fifty Shades of Grey)与赫尔穆特·牛顿(Helmut Newton)的结合，以卡洛琳·莫菲(Carolyn Murphy)身穿一套黑色皮衣收场。“那个系列是关于身体和感官享受的，”吴说，“有很多关于捆绑的暗示。那是我最喜欢的系列之一。它表现出了我的真性情。我多少有点喜欢追求刺激。”他最近的2014度假系列没有赤裸裸的性暗示，但是有一点别的暗示。比如其中的丝质斜纹T恤是移民者对美国文化的狡黠玩笑。“我是个美国设计师，”他说，“反复说明这一点很重要。我记得我妈妈和我初次到美国时，她看到每个人都穿着简单的凉鞋和短裤，感到特别震惊。亚洲不是这样的。把它改造成超级奢华的风格？还是让我去做街头服饰？那样做还挺时髦的。”
Every story about the Taiwanese-born Wu trots out the same anecdotes about how his mother moved him and his brother to Vancouver when Wu was 9, to give him a chance at a creative life. How she boldly bought him his first sewing machine when he was 10. His bio reads like a Harvard case study on opportunity, complete with sitcom-ready anecdotes about his foreign-born parents. Even after he became a household name, Wu’s dad (a successful businessman) would take complimentary dopp kits from Delta Airlines and ask his son: “Do you want this?”
每个关于在台湾出生的吴的故事都在重复着同样的趣闻轶事——他妈妈在他9岁的时候把他和哥哥带到了温哥华，让他有机会过上一种有创意的生活。在他10岁的时候，她大胆地给他买了第一台缝纫机。他的经历读起来像哈佛大学的机遇案例分析，里面充满了他在外国出生的父母很多趣闻轶事，简直是给情景喜剧准备的。即使在他家喻户晓之后，他的爸爸（一个成功的商人）还会带来达美航空公司的洗漱包问儿子：“你想要这个吗？”
Since dropping out of Parsons a few months shy of graduation to start his own line in 2006, Wu saw annual sales top $4 million dollars in just three years. And his name-brand recognition has trickled way down. His 2012 collaboration for Target is credited with helping individual store sales spike 7 percent year-over-year. Elsewhere, his diffusion line, Miss Wu, is now in its second season at Nordstrom. Hugo Boss certainly upped its profile by hiring Wu, putting a boldface name to its previously faceless women’s-wear collection. It also seems they’ve given him enough license (and distance) to make his mark. As part of the deal, Wu insisted his German employers open a design studio in New York. “I could spend time on a plane,” he told them, “or I could spend my time working.” Some industry watchers have speculated that Hugo Boss isn’t just a job for Wu, but rather an audition for the top slot at a more prestigious luxury house.
2006年，离在帕森斯设计学院毕业还有几个月之际，吴辍学开始设计自己的服装系列，仅三年时间，年销售额就达到了400万美元。他的同名品牌也慢慢为人所知。他2012年与塔吉特(Target)百货公司的合作据说帮助单个店铺的年销售额骤涨7%。他的衍生品牌“吴小姐”(Miss Wu)现在在诺德斯特姆(Nordstrom)百货公司进行第二季的销售。雨果·波士(Hugo Boss)聘用吴肯定提升了自己的形象，把一个响亮的名字放到了之前毫无名气的女装系列上。他们似乎给了他足够的权限（和距离）取得成功。作为协议的一部分，吴坚持让他的德国雇主们在纽约开设一个设计工作室。“我可以把时间花在飞机上，”他跟他们说，“或者花在工作上。”一些业界观察者推测，雨果·波士对吴来说不只是份工作，而是接受一个更有声望的奢侈品公司的顶级职位的测试。
It’s 9 p.m. and Wu is holding court at the Comme Ça restaurant in the Cosmopolitan hotel, dressed in a slim black blazer and T-shirt. With its low lighting and dark wood veneer, the place aims for subtlety, though the effect is dwarfed by the towering electronic billboard outside the window; it’s basically a giant Lite-Brite advertising an Australian all-male revue called Thunder From Down Under. Inside, a bachelorette party is guzzling drinks at a nearby table.
现在是晚上9点，吴在丽都酒店的Comme Ça餐厅接受众星捧月。他穿着修身的黑色运动上衣和T恤。这家餐厅的光线不是很明亮，墙板的颜色比较深，为的是营造一种柔和的气氛，但是窗外高耸的电子广告牌压制了这种效果。那是一个巨大的点阵式广告牌，宣传的是一个澳大利亚全男性歌舞表演，名叫《底层的雷电》(Thunder From Down Under)。餐厅里，旁边的一张桌子正在举办告别单身女子派对，派对上的女人们在纵情狂饮。
Wu orders an espresso martini with Grey Goose. He’s still recovering from a late night earlier this week; after hosting a benefit in New York, he and Diane Kruger went dancing until 4:30 a.m. Plates of food emerge from the kitchen like at an Indian wedding. Chilled squid salad. Haricots verts. Skuna Bay salmon. Crème brûlée. Martinis. More martinis. Wu is prone to over-ordering. One gets the sense that this is the in-charge Jason Wu that clients see in fittings.
吴点了一杯浓咖啡马提尼兑灰雁伏特加。本周早些时候，有一天他熬夜到很晚，和黛安·克鲁格(Diane Kruger)在纽约举办了一场慈善晚会之后，继续跳舞到凌晨4点30分，所以现在他还在恢复体力。一盘盘食物从厨房端出来，就像在印度婚礼上那样。鱿鱼沙拉、青豆、斯库那湾大马哈鱼、焦糖蛋奶冻、一杯又一杯的马提尼酒。吴点菜经常点多。我有一种感觉，客户们试衣时见到的吴，就是这样一副掌控大局的形象。
Wu’s commanding presence — both professional, and personal — can be traced, in part, to the women in his life. “I dress some of the most successful women in the world, and meeting these women rubs off on you,” he says. “A few years ago, the woman was someone I imagined in my head. Now they’re real. It’s important my work evolve along with me and that I show more facets of myself.”
吴统帅一切的姿态——不管是职业上还是个人生活上——可以部分追溯到他遇到的女人们。“我给这个世界上最成功的一些女人设计服装，与这些女人会面你会受到感染，”他说，“几年前，那些女人只存在于我的想象中。现在我看到了真实的她们。重要的是，我的作品要和我一起成长，表现我的更多方面。”
But around Rangel, the two feel more like a modern-day Ozzie and Harriet. We’re finishing dinner, a few floors up from Sin City’s first “pop-up” chapel. Had the two thought about getting hitched? Apparently, they’d discussed it previously, and had even settled on a tentative date. “Then Gus sent me a calendar request!” Wu says.
但是和兰格尔在一起的时候，他们两个感觉更像是现代版的奥兹(Ozzie)和哈里特(Harriet)。我们用完晚餐，餐厅脚下是罪恶之城的第一个“心血来潮结婚”小教堂。他们两个考虑过结婚吗？很明显他们之前讨论过，已经暂定了一个日期。“然后古斯发给了我一个日程要求函！”吴说。
Rangel nearly spits out his drink, explaining the seemingly unromantic gesture: “You have to put everything in his calendar!”
兰格尔差点把酒喷出来，解释这个似乎不够浪漫的举动：“你必须把什么都排在他的日程上！”
As dinner winds down, the two, along with a girlfriend from New York, decamp to the Cosmopolitan’s three-tiered bar, called the Chandelier bar after the millions of hanging crystals, for a drink. There’s talk of heading out to Share, a gay nightclub, to go dancing. But first, a waitress brings a round of Verbena lemon-drop cocktails, garnished with a Szechuan button flower that stings the tongue and supposedly enhances the drink’s flavors. Wu bites the forbidden fruit and smiles.
晚餐结束后，他们和纽约的一个女性朋友来到丽都酒店的三层结构的酒吧喝酒。这个酒吧叫枝形吊灯(Chandelier)酒吧，得名于这里悬挂着的成百上千万个水晶灯。他们商量着前往Share跳舞，那是一个同性恋夜店。但是首先，女服务生上了一圈“美女樱柠檬鸡尾酒”，里面加了四川花椒蕾，有点辣舌头，可能是为了提升鸡尾酒的口味。吴咬了一口禁果，笑了。
‘I make very proper clothes,’ Wu says. ‘But I was never that person. For a long time, I thought that was the image I needed to have for my brand.’
“我制作非常端庄的衣服，”他说，“但我从来都不是那样的人。有很长一段时间，我曾经以为，为了我的品牌我需要保持那样的形象。”