Sounding warnings that could have been made 20 or even 30 years ago, one of China’s most renowned economists said the country’s economy faces a “very difficult” year as it continues confronting a host of problems that have intensified over the past decade.
中国最知名经济学家之一表示，中国经济面临着“非常困难”的一年，因为它要继续面对过去10年里不断加剧的大量问题。他这些警告本应在20年乃至30年前就被人提出来。
Wu Jinglian, an 84-year-old scholar whose views often clash with those of the country’s leaders, told fellow economists at a forum in Beijing on Monday that the government had to deal with the rise of “dead companies’’ – state-owned enterprises with high debt levels that depended on subsidies to survive.
周一，84岁的学者吴敬琏在北京的一个论坛上对他的经济学同行说，政府必须应对“死公司”的兴起——这里指的是高负债率、依赖补贴生存的国有企业。
Mr. Wu made a career helping Chinese reformers deal with that very problem, as the country in the late 1970s opened to foreign investment and began to dismantle the Maoist-era government controls on prices and restrictions on private enterprise. His comments, summarized in the China Securities Journal, as Prime Minister Li Keqiang prepares to make his first annual address on China’s economy at the March meeting of China’s parliament, the National People’s Congress.
上世纪70年代末，中国向外资开放，开始解除毛泽东时代政府对价格的控制和对私营企业的限制，当时，吴敬琏因帮助中国改革者应对前述问题而功成名就。《中国证券报》概要刊登了他的发言，此时，中国总理李克强正准备在今年3月召开的全国人民代表大会上发表他的首个年度经济报告。全国人民代表大会是中国的议政机构。
Last year Mr. Wu made headlines by warning the country’s leadership before a major meeting on the economy that market overhauls would not be effective unless accompanied by political reform, including more democratization and greater rule of law.
去年，吴敬琏登上了媒体头条，原因是他在一次重大会议前夕就中国经济对中国领导层提出了警告，称市场改革要想取得成效，那就必须同步进行政治改革，包括更深入的民主改革和更广泛的法治改革。
“If we depart from this cardinal principle, national economic development will return to its old ways, continuing to use massive investment to spur economic growth, reeling between blind expansion and abrupt readjustments, and culminating in a systemic crisis,” Mr. Wu said in a speech on the eve of November’s Communist Party Plenum, which focused on the economy.
以经济为焦点的中共十八大三中全会于去年11月召开，会议前夕，吴敬琏在一次演讲中说，“如果离开了这项最根本性的原则，我国的经济发展就会重复过去的老路，继续通过大量投资来拉动经济增长，最后只能是在盲目扩张和刹车调整之间打转，最后以引发系统性危机告终。”
Mr. Wu laments what he views as a lost decade for reform under former President Hu Jintao and former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, both of whom stepped down from their government posts in March.
吴敬琏为前国家主席胡锦涛和前总理温家宝执政的那10年感到痛惜。他认为，对于改革而言，那是失去的10年。胡锦涛和温家宝均在去年3月卸任，不再担任政府职务。
In the 1990s China’s leaders overhauled the country’s state-owned enterprises, with the aim of making them more efficient and able to compete with foreign rivals. They laid off millions of workers from moribund factories, overhauled management at state-run companies and moved decades of accumulated debt into asset management companies.
上世纪90年代，中国领导人对国有企业进行了整改，目的是提高它们的效率，让其有能力与国外的对手竞争。他们让垂死工厂里的数百万工人下了岗，改革了国有企业的管理制度，并将几十年累积下来的债务交给了资产管理公司。
Under Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen, state-owned companies in the telecommunications, aviation, mining, auto, energy and other so-called “pillar’’ industries were given quasi-monopoly status and touted as national champions. Many of them began to acquire private rivals in a process that spawned a phrase: “The state advances and the private sector retreats.” State-owned companies, viewed as a safer bet than private companies, also got preferential lending from banks.
在胡锦涛和温家宝执政期间，电信、航空、采矿、汽车、能源以及其他一些所谓“支柱”行业的国有企业获得了准垄断地位，并被吹捧为国民柱石。其中的许多国有企业开始收购私营对手，这个过程催生了一个短语：国进民退。国有企业还获得了银行的优惠贷款，因为人们认为它们比私营企业更可靠。
And they borrowed. Thousands of new state-owned companies were set up under the auspices of local governments, financing a building boom that had racked up 17.89 trillion renminbi, or $2.95 trillion, in debt obligations by last June, according to a Chinese government audit. That was almost 70 percent more than three years earlier.
于是，这些国有企业大量借贷。在地方政府的支持之下，数千家新的国有企业成立起来，为一股营建热潮提供了资金。中国政府的一次审计结果显示，截止去年6月，这股热潮产生的累积债务已达17.89万亿元人民币，约合2.95万亿美元。同三年前相比，这一数字增加了近70%。
Standard and Poor’s estimates Chinese corporate debt, expected to exceed more than $13 trillion this year, will surpass the United States level by next year. The ratings agency said in a report last May that a “substantial portion” of that debt was in state-owned enterprises, which make up about 80 percent of the top corporations in China. The United States economy is more than 70 percent larger than China’s as measured by nominal gross domestic product.
标准普尔(Standard and Poor's )估计，中国企业的债务预计会在今年超过13万亿美元，并将在明年超过美国的企业债务水平。该评级机构在去年5月的一份报告中称，“很大一部分”债务是国有企业欠下的。在中国的顶尖企业当中，国有企业所占比例大约是80%。如果以名义国内生产总值来衡量，美国的经济总量比中国大70%以上。
In the speech on Monday, Mr. Wu said that private companies and state enterprises had to receive “equal treatment’’ in a system that promoted “fair competition.’’
在周一的讲话中，吴敬琏说，私企和国企均应在一个有利于“公平竞争”的制度下享受“平等待遇”。