MANCHESTER, Ky. — When smoking first swept the United States in the early decades of the 20th century, it took hold among the well-to-do. Cigarettes were high-society symbols of elegance and class, puffed by doctors and movie stars. By the 1960s, smoking had exploded, helped by the distribution of cigarettes to soldiers in World War II. Half of all men and a third of women smoked.
肯塔基州曼彻斯特——20世纪头几十年，当吸烟刚刚开始席卷美国的时候，它在富人中最为流行。香烟是上层社会优雅和身份的象征，医生和电影明星都吐着烟圈。到上世纪60年代，吸烟群体呈爆炸式增长，第二次世界大战期间，军队向士兵发放香烟的做法助推了这一增长。当时在美国，一半的男性和三分之一的女性吸烟。
But as evidence of smoking’s deadly consequences has accumulated, the broad patterns of use by class have shifted: Smoking, the leading cause of preventable death in the country, is now increasingly a habit of the poor and the working class.
然而，随着更多吸烟有害健康的证据出现，吸烟的阶级结构也发生了变化：吸烟，作为美国可预防性死亡的主因，正越来越多地成为穷人和工人阶级的嗜好。
While previous data established that pattern, a new analysis of federal smoking data released on Monday shows that the disparity is increasing. The national smoking rate has declined steadily, but there is a deep geographic divide. In the affluent suburbs of Washington, only about one in 10 people smoke, according to the analysis, by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. But in impoverished places like this — Clay County, in eastern Kentucky — nearly four in 10 do.
尽管之前的数据已经呈现出这种趋势，周一公布的一份对联邦吸烟数据的最新分析报告显示，这种分别正日益显著。美国的吸烟率正稳步下降，但存在巨大的地区差异。健康指标和评估研究所(Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation)的分析报告显示，在生活富足的华盛顿郊区，只有大约十分之一的人吸烟。但在肯塔基州东部克莱县这样的贫穷地区，每10人中差不多有4人吸烟。
“It’s just what we do here,” said Ed Smith Jr., 51, holding up his cigarette in a hand callused from his job clearing trees away from power lines. Several of his friends have died of lung cancer, and he has tried to quit, but so far has not succeeded.
“我们这的人都抽烟，”51岁的小埃德·史密斯(Ed Smith Jr.)说，他正拿着一根香烟，手上长满了老茧，都是平时干活的时候留下的。他的工作是清理电线旁的树枝。他有几个朋友已死于肺癌，他曾经试过戒烟，但迄今为止都没有成功。
“I want to see my grandson grow up,” he said.
“我想看到我的孙子长大成人，”他说。
The new study, which evaluated federal survey data from 1996 to 2012 to produce smoking rates by county, offered a rare glimpse beneath the surface of state-level data. It found that affluent counties across the nation have experienced the biggest, and fastest, declines in smoking rates, while progress in the poorest ones has stagnated. The findings are particularly stark for women: About half of all high-income counties showed significant declines in the smoking rate for women, but only 4 percent of poor counties did, the analysis found.
为了提供各县的吸烟率数据，这项新的研究报告评估了从1996年到2012年的联邦调查数据，让我们得以考察州级层面以下的情况，这种机会极为罕见。报告发现，全国来看，富裕县的吸烟率降幅最大、降速最快，而最贫穷县的吸烟率几乎没有变化。有关女性的研究数据对比尤为鲜明：分析报告发现，在所有高收入的县中，在其中大约一半的县，女性吸烟率出现了大幅下降，但只有4%的贫穷县出现了类似的变化。
This growing gap in smoking rates between rich and poor is helping drive inequality in health outcomes, experts say, with, for example, white women on the lowest rungs of the economic ladder now living shorter lives.
专家说，富人和穷人在吸烟率方面不断加大的差距，正在加剧健康水平的差异，例如，经济地位处在社会最底层的白人女性的寿命正在缩短。
“Smoking is leaving these fancy places, these big urban areas,” said Ali H. Mokdad, a researcher at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation and an author of the study. “But it has remained in these poor and rural areas. They are getting left behind.”
健康指标和评估研究所的研究员、报告的作者阿里·H·穆克达德(Ali H. Mokdad)说，“吸烟正在远离那些高档场所，远离那些大的城市地区。但仍存在于贫穷地区和农村地区。这些地区落在了后面。”
Americans with a high school education or less make up 40 percent of the population, but they account for 55 percent of the nation’s 42 million smokers, according to a New York Times analysis of health survey data obtained from the Minnesota Population Center, at the University of Minnesota. Since 1997, the smoking rate for adults has fallen 27 percent, but among the poor it has declined just 15 percent, according to the analysis. And among adults living in deep poverty in the South and Midwest, the smoking rate has not changed at all.
《纽约时报》分析了从明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)明尼苏达人口中心(Minnesota Population Center)获得的公共卫生调查数据，结果发现，尽管拥有高中及以下学历的美国人在美国人口中的比例为40%，但在美国4200万烟民中，他们却占了55%的比重。分析显示，1997年以来，成年人中烟民的比例下降了27%，但在穷人中，这一比例只下降了15%。南部和中西部极端贫困的成年人中，吸烟率毫无变化。
Health experts say this finer understanding of who still smokes shows that public health officials need to refocus antismoking efforts on the poor and working class. Michael P. Eriksen, dean of the school of public health at Georgia State University, who ran the federal Office on Smoking and Health under President Bill Clinton, said public programs aimed at struggling Americans were patchy, even as tobacco companies successfully targeted them. Researchers have shown that tobacco companies make corporate contributions to local causes, aim advertising campaigns at low-income areas and even sell cigarettes more cheaply in those areas.
卫生专家说，这个对目前烟民的更细致分析显示，公共卫生官员需要调整禁烟工作的重点，放到穷人和工人阶层身上。乔治亚州立大学(Georgia State University)公共卫生学院院长迈克尔·P·埃里克森(Michael P. Eriksen)曾经是比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府联邦吸烟和健康办公室的主任。他说，面向贫困美国人的公共项目分布不均，与此同时，烟草公司却成功地瞄准了这一群体。研究人员称，烟草公司正在为地方的公共事业贡献力量，开展针对低收入地区的广告宣传活动，甚至在这些地区以更低的价格销售香烟。
Clay County, where just 7 percent of residents have a college degree and the poverty rate is double the nation’s, is trying. Manchester, the county seat, a small cluster of gas stations, municipal buildings and fast-food restaurants, banned smoking in restaurants, stores and bars in 2012. The hospital runs a smoking cessation program that offers free nicotine patches and gum in an effort to reach low-income smokers.
在克莱县，只有7%的居民拥有大学学历，这里的贫困率是全国的两倍。克莱县正在努力禁烟。克莱县县政府所在地曼彻斯特拥有为数不多的加油站、市政大楼和快餐店。该市2012年开始在餐厅、商店和酒吧禁烟。医院实施了一个戒烟项目，提供免费的尼古丁片和口香糖，以帮助低收入的吸烟者。
Still, progress has been slow. By the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation’s analysis, Clay’s smoking rate in 2012, at 36.7 percent, was the highest of any United States county with a population of at least 15,000, and had not changed much since 1996.
但进展依然很慢。根据健康指标与评估研究所的分析，克莱县在2012年的的吸烟率为36.7%，在美国所有人口达到1.5万的县中名列第一，这一情况自1996年就基本没变。
“Smoking cessation is our biggest uphill battle,” said Jeremy Hacker, the hospital’s community outreach coordinator. While smoking is no longer normal in big cities, he said, in Clay, “it’s not viewed as a problem.”
“禁烟现在是我们最艰巨的难关，”医院的社区对外联络协调人杰瑞米·哈克(Jeremy Hacker)说。在大城市吸烟已经不再寻常了，他说，在克莱县“没人把它当成个问题”。
“Smokers aren’t seen as the minority,” he continued.
“人们不把吸烟者视为少数派，”他继续说。
Until the mid-1960s, when the dangers of smoking became clear, high school and college graduates smoked at about the same rates. But since then, the rate has declined much more rapidly among college graduates. In the last 15 years, the decline has been twice as large among adults with a college degree, according to the Times analysis. Gaps have also widened between the employed and the unemployed, and between those with health insurance and those without.
直到60年代中期，吸烟的危害才逐渐明确。在那之前高中毕业生和大学毕业生吸烟的比例大致相同。但从那以后，大学毕业生的吸烟率大幅下降。根据《纽约时报》的分析，最近15年中，大学学历成年吸烟者人数的下降幅度是高中学历人群的两倍。有工作的人和没工作的人之间，以及有健康保险和没有健康保险的人群间的差距也在扩大。
Clay County has some of the worst health outcomes in the nation, and many said smoking seemed almost safe compared with the raging drug epidemic in the area.
克莱县居民的健康状况可算全国最糟。但一些人觉得，和在区域内大肆泛滥的毒品相比，吸烟还是相对安全的。
“Smoking is one of the last things to worry about in this county,” said Barbara Bowling, an owner of Mike’s Discount Tobacco, which has drive-through windows under a billboard that says, “Let’s Talk God.” She said she was angry when she found out her daughter was smoking, but at least she was not using drugs.
“吸烟是这个国家最不值得考虑的问题之一，”芭芭拉·鲍林(Barbara Bowling)说。她是麦克烟草折扣店(Mike’s Discount Tobacco)的老板，她店内驾车购物窗口上方的广告牌上写着，“让我们谈谈上帝吧。”她说当她发现女儿抽烟的时候很愤怒，但庆幸至少她不是在吸毒。
“Just sit and watch the parking lot for a day,” Mrs. Bowling said. “If smoking is the worst thing that’s happening, praise the Lord.”
“坐在那儿花一整天时间观察停车场，”鲍林说。“如果吸烟真是全天下最糟糕的事情，那赶快感谢上帝吧。”
Even in Clay County, change could be coming. When Manchester’s ban on smoking in public places went into effect, it was hard to tell who at the Huddle House restaurant hated it more: the clientele or the staff. Two years later, Mike Feltner, a cook, was puffing stealthily on an electronic cigarette (Marlboro flavor) while cooking eggs. He said all four of the smokers on the staff now used the devices, which he said were considerably cheaper than his old two-pack-a-day habit. He put the savings toward a down payment on a house.
即使在克莱县，改变也可能马上到来。当曼彻斯特的公共场所戒严令生效的时候，很难说是赫德尔餐厅(Huddle House)的客人还是员工更痛恨这一规定。两年后，厨师迈克·费尔特内(Mike Feltner)在煎鸡蛋的时候默默地抽着电子香烟（万宝路[Marlboro]口味）。他说员工中的四个烟民现在都在用这个东西，按他过去一天抽两包烟的习惯，这要便宜不少。他将省下的钱投入作房子首付。
“This is a new phase in this town,” he said. “Everybody’s doing it. Young people, old people, everyone.”
“这是我们小城的新篇章，”他说。“大家都在这么做。年轻人，年长者，每个人。”