The title of a recent report on smoking and health might well have paraphrased the popular ad campaign for Virginia Slims, introduced in 1968 by Philip Morris and aimed at young professional women: “You’ve come a long way, baby.”
菲利普·莫里斯(Philip Morris)公司在1968年针对年轻职业女性推出了弗吉尼亚牌女士香烟 (Virginia Slims)。该产品有一句广为流行的广告语：“亲爱的，你终于来了。”而近期的一项关于吸烟与健康的研究报告的标题从某种程度上阐释了这一广告语。
Today that slogan should include: “. . . toward a shorter life.” Ten years shorter, in fact.
今天，这句口号应做出以下补充：“……朝着更短的寿命。”事实上，吸烟者的寿命要比不吸烟者短十年左右。
The new report is one of two rather shocking analyses of the hazards of smoking and the benefits of quitting published last month in The New England Journal of Medicine. The data show that “women who smoke like men die like men who smoke,” Dr. Steven A. Schroeder, a professor of health and health care at the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an accompanying editorial.
这一新的研究报告是上个月发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上的两项分析之一。这两项分析均探讨了吸烟的危害和戒烟的收益，结果相当令人震惊。美国加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)健康和保健(health and health care)教授史蒂文·A·施罗德(Steven A. Schroeder)博士在同期刊出的评论文章中指出，数据显示：“女性如果像男性一样吸烟，她们的死亡情况也会与这些吸烟的男性类似。”
That was not always the case. Half a century ago, the risk of death from lung cancer among men who smoked was five times higher than that among women smokers. But by the first decade of this century, that risk had equalized: for both men and women who smoked, the risk of death from lung cancer was 25 times greater than for nonsmokers, Dr. Michael J. Thun of the American Cancer Society and his colleagues reported.
情况并非始终如此。半个世纪之前，男性吸烟者中的肺癌死亡风险为女性吸烟者的五倍。但美国癌症学会(the American Cancer Society)的迈克尔·J·图恩(Michael J. Thun)博士及其同事的研究报告指出，在本世纪的前十年之内，该风险在两性之间已持平：男性和女性吸烟者的肺癌死亡风险均已达到不吸烟者的 25 倍。
Today, women who smoke are even more likely than men who smoke to die of lung cancer. According to a second study in the same journal, women smokers face a 17.8 times greater risk of dying of lung cancer, than women who do not smoke; men who smoke are at 14.6 times greater risk to die of lung cancer than men who don’t. Women who smoke now face a risk of death from lung cancer that is 50 percent higher than the estimates reported in the 1980s, according to Dr. Prabhat Jha of the Center for Global Health Research in Toronto and his colleagues.
如今，女性吸烟者死于肺癌的可能性甚至已经超过了男性吸烟者。根据刊登于同一期杂志上的另一项研究，女性吸烟者死于肺癌的风险达不吸烟女性的 17.8 倍，而男性吸烟者死于肺癌的风险则为不吸烟男性的14.6倍。多伦多全球健康研究中心(Center for Global Health Research)的普拉巴特·杰哈(Prabhat Jha)博士及其同事表示，目前女性吸烟者所面临的肺癌死亡风险已比20世纪80年代所报告的估计值高出50%。
After controlling for age, body weight, education level and alcohol use, the new analysis found something else: men and women who continue to smoke die on average more than 10 years sooner than those who never smoked.
经过对年龄、体重、教育程度和饮酒情况加以控制后，这一新的分析得到了其他的发现：平均而言，持续吸烟的男性和女性的死亡时间要比从不吸烟者提前10年以上。
Dramatic progress has been made in reducing the prevalence of smoking, which has fallen in the United States from 42 percent of adults in 1965 (the year after the first surgeon general’s report on smoking and health) to 19 percent in 2010. Yet smoking still results in nearly 200,000 deaths a year among people 35 to 69 years old in this country. A quarter of all deaths in this age group would not occur if smokers had the same risk of death as nonsmokers.
在降低吸烟率方面已经取得了巨大的进展：在美国，吸烟率已从1965年（美国公共卫生部部长[surgeon general]就吸烟与健康发表报告后的第一年）的42%下降到了2010年的19%。然而，在该国的35-69岁人群中，吸烟每年仍导致了近20万例死亡。如果吸烟者与不吸烟者的死亡风险相等，则上述年龄组的所有死亡中将有四分之一可以得到避免。
The risks are even greater among men 55 to 74 and women 60 to 74. More than two-thirds of all deaths among current smokers in these age groups are related to smoking. Over all, the death rate from all causes combined in these age groups “is now at least three times as high among current smokers as among those who have never smoked,” Dr. Thun’s team found.
在男性55-74岁的年龄组和女性60-74岁的年龄组中死亡风险则更大。在上述年龄组当前吸烟者的全部死亡中，有三分之二以上与吸烟有关。图恩博士的研究小组发现，目前总体而言，在这些年龄组中，“当前吸烟者的综合全因死亡率至少为从不吸烟者的三倍”。
While lung cancer is the most infamous hazard linked to smoking, the habit also raises the risk of death from heart disease, stroke, pulmonary disease and other cancers, including breast cancer.
虽然在与吸烟有关的危险中，肺癌最为臭名昭著，但吸烟习惯也可增加因心脏病、中风、肺部疾病以及乳腺癌等其它癌症死亡的风险。
Furthermore, changes in how cigarettes are manufactured may have increased the dangers of smoking. The use of perforated filters, tobacco blends that are less irritating, and paper that is more porous made it easier to inhale smoke and encouraged deeper inhalation to achieve satisfying blood levels of nicotine.
此外，香烟制造工艺的改变也可能会增加吸烟的危害。使用打孔过滤嘴、刺激性较小的烟草共混物和渗透性较强的纸张使得人们更容易吸入烟雾，并助长人们采用较深的吸烟方式，以达到满意的血液尼古丁水平。
The result of deeper inhalation, Dr. Thun’s report suggests, has been an increased risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or C.O.P.D., and a shift in the kind of lung cancer linked to smoking. Among nonsmokers, the risk of death from C.O.P.D. has declined by 45 percent in men and has remained stable in women, but the death rate has more than doubled among smokers.
图恩博士的报告表明，较深的吸烟方式可增加患慢性阻塞性肺疾病（或称COPD），以及转变为与吸烟有关的肺癌的风险。在非吸烟者中，男性因COPD死亡的风险现已下降了45%，而在女性中该风险持续保持稳定，但在吸烟者中，该死亡率增加了一倍以上。
But there is good news, too: it’s never too late to reap the benefits of quitting. The younger you are when you stop smoking, the greater your chances of living a long and healthy life, according to the findings of Dr. Jha’s international team.
不过，事情也有好的一面：想要戒烟并从中获益永远不嫌太晚。正如杰哈博士的国际研究团队的研究结果指出的那样，一个人在戒烟时越年轻，他日后在健康长寿方面所能实现的改变就越大。
The team analyzed smoking and smoking-cessation histories of 113,752 women and 88,496 men 25 and older and linked them to causes of deaths in these groups through 2006.
该研究团队分析了年满25岁的113752名女性和88496名男性的吸烟和戒烟史，并将其与这些人群直至2006年的死亡原因相联系。
Those who quit smoking by age 34 lived 10 years longer on average than those who continued to smoke, giving them a life expectancy comparable to people who never smoked. Smokers who quit between ages 35 and 44 lived nine years longer, and those who quit between 45 and 54 lived six years longer. Even quitting smoking between ages 55 and 64 resulted in a four-year gain in life expectancy.
在34岁之前戒烟者的寿命平均比继续吸烟者长出十年，从而与从不吸烟者的预期寿命相当。在35-44岁之间戒烟的吸烟者寿命可延长九年，而在45-54岁之间戒烟者寿命可延长六年。即使在 55~64 岁之间才戒烟也可将预期寿命延长四年。
The researchers emphasized, however, that the numbers do not mean it is safe to smoke until age 40 and then stop. Former smokers who quit by 40 still experienced a 20 percent greater risk of death than nonsmokers. About one in six former smokers who died before the age of 80 would not have died so young if he or she had never smoked, they reported.
然而，研究人员强调，这些数字并不代表在40岁前持续吸烟并在其后戒烟就可以高枕无忧。在40岁前戒烟的既往吸烟者的死亡风险仍比非吸烟者高20%。研究报告，倘若在80岁前死亡的既往吸烟者不曾吸烟的话，那么他们每六人中约有一人将不会这么早就去世。
Dr. Schroeder believes we can do a lot better to reduce the prevalence of smoking with the tools currently in hand if government agencies, medical insurers and the public cooperate.
施罗德博士认为，如果可以得到政府机构、医疗保险公司和公众的合作，使用目前掌握的工具，我们还可以在降低吸烟率方面做得更好。
Unlike the races, ribbons and fund-raisers for breast cancer, “there’s no public face for lung cancer, even though it kills more women than breast cancer does,” Dr. Schroeder said in an interview. Lung cancer is stigmatized as a disease people bring on themselves, even though many older victims were hooked on nicotine in the 1940s and 1950s, when little was known about the hazards of smoking and doctors appeared in ads assuring the public it was safe to smoke.
施罗德博士在接受记者采访时表示：为了宣传抗击乳腺癌，人们举行了多种公益赛跑、戴粉红丝带和筹款活动；与此相反，“肺癌却尚未建立起自己的公众形象，尽管与乳腺癌相比，肺癌夺去了更多女性的生命”。人们一直将肺癌视为由自身招致的疾病，然而很多年长的病人是在20世纪40年代和50年代时迷恋上了尼古丁，而当时人们对吸烟的危害尚知之甚少，而且广告中的医生向公众保证吸烟是安全的。
Raising taxes on cigarettes can help. The states with the highest prevalence of smoking have the lowest tax rates on cigarettes, Dr. Schroeder said. Also helpful would be prohibiting smoking in more public places like parks and beaches. Some states have criminalized smoking in cars when children are present.
提高烟草税可能有助于降低吸烟率。施罗德博士指出，吸烟率最高的州烟草税也是最低的。在像公园和海滩这样的公共场所更广泛地禁烟也可对降低吸烟率有所助益。一些州现已规定，当有儿童在场时，在车内吸烟是违法行为。
More “countermarketing” of cigarettes is needed, he said, including antismoking public service ads on television and dramatic health warnings on cigarette packs, as is now done in Australia. But two American courts have ruled that the proposed label warnings infringed on the tobacco industry’s right to free speech.
施罗德博士表示，人们还需要对香烟采取更多的“反营销”策略，例如采取与目前澳大利亚所实施的类似的措施，在电视上播放禁烟公益广告以及在烟盒上印刷引人注目的健康警示语等。但是，目前已有两家美国法院裁定，在标签上设置警告信息的提议侵犯了烟草行业的言论自由权。
Health insurers, both private and government, could broaden their coverage of stop-smoking aids and better publicize telephone quit lines, and doctors “should do more to stimulate quit attempts,” Dr. Schroeder said.
施罗德博士指出，私营和政府旗下的医疗保险公司均应扩大其戒烟辅助服务的覆盖面，更好地宣传戒烟热线，且医生“应该为鼓励吸烟者尝试戒烟付出更多的努力”。
As Nicola Roxon, a former Australian health minister, put it, “We are killing people by not acting.”
正如澳大利亚卫生部前部长尼古拉·罗克森(Nicola Roxon)所言：“如果我们不采取行动，人们将为此而送命。”