It often takes a crisis, major or minor, to prompt people to change bad habits, especially when the change is time-consuming and anxiety-provoking.
往往需要一场或轻或重的危机，这才能逼迫人们改变积习，在改变需要耗费大量时日、令人忧心如焚时，情况尤其如此。
The other day, the drawer in which I store my swimming stuff jammed. When I finally got it open and dumped out its contents, I counted more than a dozen bathing suits (several with their store tags intact), 12 bathing caps, 10 pairs of goggles and countless nose clips and earplugs.
那天，我用来装游泳装备的抽屉被卡住了，等我好不容易把它打开，将抽屉里的东西一古脑儿倒出来时，我发现里面有超过一打泳装（好几件上面的价格签还没剪掉）、一打泳帽、10副泳镜，以及数不清的鼻夹和耳塞。
Then I recalled the same thing had happened a week earlier with my drawer of pens and pencils, literally hundreds of them, half of which were dried out or otherwise useless.
我想起一周前，在打开我专门用来存放钢笔和铅笔的抽屉时，也曾发生过同样的事情，里面有几百支笔，其中半数的油墨已干，或者完全写不出来了。
And I shouldn’t even mention my full-size freezer or humongous medicine cabinet, where things fall out every time I open them. Or my floor-to-ceiling plastic bins of yarn, mountain-high pile of Bubble Wrap, bags of plastic bags and shopping bags, and shelves of items I thought might be gifts for someone someday.
我实在不应再提起家里那个大尺寸的冰箱或巨无霸药柜，每次一打开门，里面的东西就会轰然倒下。我也不该说起家里存着纱线的塑料储物箱已经堆到了天花板、泡沫包装膜聚成了一座小山，还有大包小包的塑料袋和购物袋和成柜的零碎物件，我总觉得有朝一日能把它们作为礼物送给谁。
Having just read “Homer & Langley,” E. L. Doctorow’s novel about the Collyer brothers, who were found dead in a Harlem brownstone under more than 100 tons of stuff they had accumulated, I finally vowed to tackle my lifelong tendency to accumulate too much of nearly everything and my seeming inability to throw out anything that I considered potentially useful to me or someone else sometime in the future.
最近我刚刚读了E·L·多克托罗(E.L. Doctorow)的小说《纽约兄弟》(Homer & Langley)，这本小说描写了科利尔兄弟，他俩住在哈林区一幢赤褐色砂石小楼里，人们发现俩兄弟去世时，在房间里发现了100多吨两人积累起来的物件。读完小说，我终于发誓要解决自己这辈子总喜欢把什么东西都攒下来、却什么都不舍得扔的老毛病，因为我总觉得这些东西今后总归能对我或别人派上用场。
Living in a three-story house with full basement made it far too easy to pursue this habit. I had plenty of storage space (and had filled every nook and cranny of it), but often couldn’t find things when I needed them, including clothes, books, articles, even frozen food I knew I had stored somewhere. Last year I found eight unopened jars of cocktail sauce in the back of my fridge; I had forgotten I had any and kept buying more.
住在一幢三层楼、外加大地下室的屋子里，想要把这个习惯进行到底实在太容易了。我有充足的储藏空间（而且现在已经把角角落落都堆满了），但在需要什么东西时却总是找不到，不管那是衣服、书、日用品，还是我明明知道放在了某处的冷冻食品。去年我在冰箱的最里面掏出了八罐没打开的鸡尾酱；我已经忘了自己买过了，所以在不停地补货。
When a product I liked at the moment was on sale (graham crackers, lipstick, shampoo, detergent, cereal, supplements), I often bought as many as I could and added them to already overflowing stashes. I’m often afraid I won’t be able to get more when I need it, a concern occasionally validated when a manufacturer discontinues something I like. But more often, I tire of these items and move on to others long before I’ve used up the old purchases.
假如某件当时我正喜欢的东西正在打折（全麦饼干、唇膏、洗发水、洗涤剂、麦片、营养品），我往往会能买多少就买多少，然后把它们丢进已经塞满了东西的角落。我常常担心在需要什么东西时却再也买不到了，这个忧虑偶尔会在商家停产某件我喜欢的商品时得到应验。不过更常出现的情况则是，我一下子就用厌了这些东西，在还没把储备品用完时，就有了新欢。
Steps to Declutter
清理房间的步骤
Recently, as if by fate, an advance copy of a book arrived in the mail that is without doubt the most helpful tome for anyone with a cluttering tendency. It’s called “The Hoarder in You: How to Live a Happier, Healthier, Uncluttered Life” (published Tuesday by Rodale Books). It was written by Robin Zasio, a clinical psychologist, a star of the show “Hoarders” and director of the Anxiety Treatment Center in Sacramento.
最近，仿佛是有如神助，一本新书样本飞抵我的邮箱，毫无疑问，对于所有家居杂乱的人来说，这是最能帮得上忙的好书。这本书叫《作为囤积者的你：如何过更快乐、更健康、更整洁的生活》（The Hoarder in You: How to Live a Happier, Healthier, Uncluttered Life，周二由Rodale Books出版社出版）。它的作者是临床心理学家罗彬·扎西奥(Robin Zasio)，她是真人秀节目“囤积狂”中的明星嘉宾，也是萨克拉门托市焦虑治疗中心的主任。
I would say that Dr. Zasio’s book is about the best self-help work I’ve read in my 46 years as a health and science writer. She seems to know all the excuses and impediments to coping effectively with a cluttering problem, and she offers practical, clinically proven antidotes to them.
我敢说，在我46年的健康科学记者生涯里，扎西奥博士的这本书是我读过的最好的一本自助励志书。她好像明白在有效处理杂乱症时大家能做出的所有借口，遇到的所有阻碍，而且她提供了务实、同时临床证明行之有效的解药。
Unless you are an extreme hoarder (the kind portrayed on the show) who requires a year or more of professional therapy, the explanations and steps described in the book can help any garden-variety clutterer better understand the source of the problem and its negative consequences, as well as overcome it and keep it from recurring.
如果你是个极端的囤积狂（极端到足以能上这个真人秀节目），那就需要接受一年甚至更长时间专业治疗，而如果你只是个普普通通的杂乱症患者，那么这本书中给出的解释与描述的步骤，可以帮助你更好的理解自己问题的根源和其负面后果，同时也能帮助你克服问题，防止再犯。
Though it is not possible here to include all of Dr. Zasio’s lessons, here are a few I think are especially helpful.
虽然在这里我不可能尽述扎西奥博士的所有经验，不过我可以提供一些觉得特别有用的内容。
Perhaps most important is to tackle just one project at a time and stick with it until it is done. “Start with the easiest, and be proud of what you’ve done,” Dr. Zasio said in an interview. Then gradually move on to more challenging projects.
最重要的一点，是每次只针对一个项目，然后坚定不移，直到完全攻克。“先从最容易的一点着手，你要为你已经做出的成就而骄傲，”扎西奥在采访中这样说。然后，再一步步地移向难度最大的项目。
Schedule time for decluttering — say, an hour each day on most days, until you’re done.
要为清理房间安排出时间——比方说平时每天定出一小时专门做这件事，直到完成为止。
There’s no question that parting with stuff you’ve collected and thought valuable can trigger anxiety. But, as Dr. Zasio says and I have found, the anticipated anxiety is usually worse than what actually ensues. Even if it is acute, the anxiety dissipates if you sit down or do something fun or relaxing until it passes.
毫无疑问，送走你精心收集、并且以为大有价值的东西，可能会触发你的焦虑感。不过，扎西奥博士指出，你实际感觉到的焦虑并没想象中那么严重，对此我也有同感。而且就算感觉非常煎熬，只要你能静心坐下，或者做点有趣的事情、放松下来，这种感觉始终会烟消云散的。
Make three piles (or bins) of stuff: Keep, Donate, Discard. (Avoid my mistake of making a fourth pile called Undecided that you simply wind up moving to another part of the house.) Get rid of the Discard and Donate piles as soon as possible. Keep only those things that have a realistic “home” in your home.
把物品分成三堆（或三箱）：保留的，捐赠的，丢弃的。（我犯了一个错，额外又分了一堆叫“待定”，结果只是把它们挪到房间其他地方了事，你们可别效仿。）尽快把保留和捐赠的物品弄走。只保留那些在你家里有个真正的“去处”的东西。
Dr. Zasio admits to owning 175 pairs of shoes, but, she said, “they’re neatly arranged, and I have access to them all.”
扎西奥博士承认，她本人有175双鞋子，不过她说：“这些鞋子摆放得很整洁，而且哪双我都需要穿。”
I’ve found it easiest to part with clothes, shoes and jewelry I no longer wear if I give them to people I know can use them. But anonymous giving to organizations like Goodwill or Vietnam Veterans of America is satisfying, too.
我发现，把自己不需要的衣服、鞋子和首饰送给我知道一定用得着的人，会感觉非常自在。不过如果匿名捐赠给Goodwill慈善超市或“美国越战老兵”(Vietman Veterans of America)这类组织，我同样会深感满足。
Strategies to Maintain 
保持好习惯的策略
I have particular difficulty resisting “buy one, get one free” offers, half-price sales and bulk-purchase “bargains” in big-box stores. Think first about where the products will go and how many of them you already have. These sales and bargains will repeat themselves, and you’ll get other opportunities. If necessary, stop reading sale fliers and cancel your membership at Costco.
我特别难以抗拒“买一赠一”、半价销售和大型商店提供的批发“折扣价”。碰到这种情况时，你得先想想家里的这类产品会归置到哪儿去，家里已经堆了多少同样的东西了。这类打折促销会不断继续，你还有机会再买。如果有必要，你可以不再浏览促销传单，或者取消在Costco超市的会员卡。
“Ultimately, if you never get to use it, a sale item may end up costing you more than you save,” Dr. Zasio said.
“说到底，一件打折货如果你永远都用不着，那么买它就得不偿失，”扎西奥说。
Keep in mind that, like food and medications, beauty products have expiration dates, so buying more than you’ll need in the near future can be wasteful. “It’s O.K. to have one backup, but do you really need 10?” Dr. Zasio asked.
你要记住，跟食品和药品一样，美容护肤品也有保质期，所以如果买的产品无法及时用完，就是一种浪费。“有一件备用品还说的过去，但你真的需要十件备用品吗？”扎西奥问。
Bring nothing new into the house unless you have a proper place for it. “If you can’t identify a place for it to live, it probably should not come home,” she said.
不要把任何新物件带回家，除非你有合适的地方放它。“假如你找不到一个合适的地方放置它，它也许就不应当被带回来，”她说。
In clearing my own clutter, I realized my late husband — who often asked me, “How many rolls of paper towels and toilet paper do you really need?” — had collecting problems of his own. I uncovered old cans of paint, picture frames and books he found on the street, all manner of wood, boxes of chipped crystal, every version of every song and show he ever wrote (he was a lyricist and playwright), and bags of our twin sons’ memorabilia since preschool (they’re now 42).
在清理我的杂物时，我才发现我已故的丈夫——他当年常问我，“你到底需要多少卷纸巾和厕所啊？”——原来也有收集癖。我翻出了老旧的油漆罐、相框和他发掘的旧书，各种木材、一盒盒的水晶残片，他写过的每首歌的所有版本（他是词曲作者），还有一袋袋我们的双胞胎儿子自上学前班以来的纪念品（他们已经42岁了）。
By cleaning out his stuff and my own, I will spare my children a horrible task when I’m gone. And when I stop wasting time accumulating, storing, searching for and moving around stuff I really don’t need, I might have time for a new companion: a dog.
将他和我的杂物清理干净，等到有一天我离去时，孩子们就可以豁免这项可怕的任务。而当我不再浪费时间积聚、储存、翻找和搬动那些自己根本不需要的东西时，恐怕我就有闲暇应付一位新伴侣：一只狗。