You’ve seen them on weekend mornings, the long lines of brunchgoers on sidewalks everywhere — the exhausted parents with small children, bleary-eyed late-nighters ready for a hair of the dog, hollandaise addicts. Elsewhere, still in pajamas, are the brunch skeptics — namely anyone who has ever worked an 8 a.m. brunch shift and those who are philosophically opposed to waiting an hour for a Belgian waffle.
周末早上你随处能看到街边等待吃早午餐的人排起的长队——带小孩的疲惫父母，熬了一夜、睡眼惺忪、准备来点酒精饮料解宿醉的人，对荷兰酸辣酱上瘾的人。在其他地方是对早午餐持怀疑态度的人，他们还穿着睡衣睡裤，包括任何曾经在上午8点早午餐时段在餐馆值过班的人，以及任何从理性上排斥为了一块比利时华夫饼等一个小时的人。
This split used to be apparent in the kitchen, too, where chefs successful enough to keep the crowds coming on Saturday night felt entitled to sleep in on Sunday morning. Brunch was left to novice cooks who drew the short straw and who believed they didn’t have license to innovate beyond adding a squirt of sriracha to the Bloody Mary mix.
过去，这种差别在厨房里也很明显：能成功地让人们在周六晚上蜂拥而至的大厨们感觉自己有权利在周日早上睡个懒觉。早午餐留给了那些倒霉的新厨师们，他们认为自己除了在血腥玛丽鸡尾酒中加一注斯里拉查辣椒酱(sriracha)之外无权进行其他创新。
But that’s changed. Lately, brunch has become the trend among some of New York City’s most creative chefs, with nary a mimosa or plate of eggs Benedict.
但是现在情况改变了。最近，早午餐在纽约市最有创意的大厨中成了一股潮流，菜单中连含羞草酒或烟肉鸡蛋松饼这样的传统菜也没有。
Instead, at Wylie Dufresne’s restaurant Alder, you’ll get Bloody Mary popcorn, covered in a heady combination of powdered tomatoes, dehydrated Worcestershire sauce, celery salt and spices. Pickled beets are served with a lightly sweet coconut ricotta and Thai basil. A mini-pizza bagel uses dots of seasoned egg yolk to suggest pepperoni.
在怀利·迪弗雷纳(Wylie Dufresne)的阿尔德餐馆(Alder)，你将得到血腥玛丽爆米花，上面覆盖着丰富的番茄末、脱水伍斯特沙司、芹籽盐和香料。和腌甜菜根一起上桌的是微甜的椰子奶酪和泰式罗勒。一个迷你披萨百吉饼用星星点点的调味蛋黄来代表意大利辣香肠。
At Momofuku Ssam Bar, the menu offers David Chang’s buns filled with smoked salmon instead of bagels and lox; grilled duck hearts and — what may be the last thing you’d think to pair with a latte — broccoli salad with smoked bluefish vinaigrette and crisp duck skin.
在福桃菜包肉馆(Momofuku Ssam Bar)，菜单上供应的是张大卫(David Chang)的熏鲑鱼包子，而非百吉饼和熏鲑鱼。还有烤鸭心——你可能绝不会想到用它来搭配拿铁——用熏蓝鱼醋油沙司调制的西兰花沙拉和脆脆的鸭皮。
And while Ignacio Mattos embraces the humble fried egg at Estela more than some of his brethren, you’re more likely to find it nuzzling a crisp square of blood sausage than a couple of strips of bacon. In one particularly clever dish, a stew of harissa-tinged gigante beans are crowned with fried eggs, then showered with bits of the Spanish cured tuna called mojama.
在埃斯特拉餐馆(Estela)，虽然伊格纳西奥·马托斯(Ignacio Mattos)比他的一些同行们更接受质朴的煎蛋，但是你更可能发现它挨着一块脆脆的正方形血肠，而不是几条培根。哈瑞萨辣酱焖吉甘特豆(gigante bean)的做法很巧妙，上面放着煎蛋，然后撒上少量西班牙熏金枪鱼干。
How did brunch become so cutting edge? Have chefs suddenly started voluntarily getting up before noon on the weekend? Or is the economic reality of owning a restaurant in New York City forcing them to rethink their prejudices?
早午餐怎么变得如此前卫？是因为大厨们突然开始自觉地在周末正午之前起床了？还是因为在纽约市经营餐馆的经济现状迫使他们重新考虑自己的偏见？
Of the dozen or so chefs I’ve spoken with, most would agree with the latter. Brunch increases business and brings in diners who may not be able to afford dinner — or score a reservation.
我询问了十几位大厨，他们大多认为原因是后者。早午餐能扩大生意，把那些吃不起正餐或订不上座位的人带到店里。
Because few people order a multicourse brunch, and there’s no real wine service, restaurants can turn tables more quickly. At the Dutch, Andrew Carmellini’s team serves an average of about 25 to 30 percent more people during brunch than it does at dinner, and more than double the number it does during lunch.
因为早午餐时几乎没人会点好几道菜，也没有真正的酒水服务，所以餐桌的轮换比较快。在荷兰人餐馆(Dutch)，安德鲁·卡尔梅利尼(Andrew Carmellini)的团队在早午餐时接待的顾客比晚餐时平均多25%至30%，比午餐时多一倍还多。
“The check average might be lower at brunch,” said Jacque Burke, a spokeswoman for the Dutch, “but it’s a way to optimize our space, and it’s a profit center that’s important to the business model.”
“早午餐的平均账单金额可能低一些，”荷兰人餐馆的发言人雅克·伯克(Jacque Burke)说，“但是它能优化我们的空间利用，是个利润中心，对经营模式很重要。”
Brunch also has what Marco Canora, the chef at Hearth, calls hidden advantages that go beyond profit.
灶台餐馆(Hearth)的大厨马尔科·卡诺拉(Marco Canora)说，早午餐还有个利润之外的隐性优势。
“Sure, brunch helps with cash flow,” he said, “but there’s more to it. Brunch also allows you to have a larger staff, a larger pool of people to draw from.” And that can help on the day one of the cooks doesn’t show up.
“当然，早午餐有助于现金流入，”他说，“但是它的益处不止如此。早午餐还能让你拥有更多员工，让你有更多人可以挑选。”要是哪天一位厨师不来的话，它能帮助缓解困境。
Another hidden advantage is related to the rise of nose-to-tail cooking. Brunch gives chefs a place to use all the bits and pieces of an animal that may not work on the dinner menu. At Hearth, Mr. Canora serves a brawny, pleasingly chewy slab of pork blade steak, something that does not quite fit in at dinner.
另一个隐性优势与整体烹饪(nose-to-tail cooking)方式的兴起有关。大厨们可以在早午餐中用上在正餐菜单中用不上的动物零碎部分。在灶台餐馆，卡诺拉供应一道结实的、很有嚼头的猪肋排，这个食材不太好融入正餐中。
Or think about breakfast sausages. At Marco’s in Brooklyn, the chef, Danny Amend, makes his sausages for brunch in house because he can season them exactly as he wants (with just a touch of fennel) and as a way to minimize food waste. They go perfectly with grapefruit, a breakfast staple he slices and serves as a salad with good olive oil and sea salt.
或者想想早餐香肠。在布鲁克林的马尔科餐馆(Marco’s)，大厨丹尼·阿门德(Danny Amend)为自家的早午餐制作香肠，因为他完全可以按照自己的意愿来调味（只用一点茴香），而且这是个减少食物浪费的好办法。这些香肠和葡萄柚十分搭配，葡萄柚是早餐的主食，他把它切成块，用上好的橄榄油和海盐调味，当成沙拉上桌。
Adding eggs to pretty much any dish goes a long way toward making something untraditional or avant-garde seem like breakfast food. Mr. Canora gets away with serving pigs’ feet Fiorentina at brunch by topping them with eggs.
在几乎任何食物中加入鸡蛋都非常有助于把非传统或前卫的食物做得像早餐。卡诺拉在早午餐的佛罗伦萨猪蹄上加上鸡蛋，蒙混过关。
April Bloomfield’s deep passion for eggs can be seen on the brunch menus at her restaurants: At the Breslin, she offers them nine ways, including poached with curried lentils and yogurt, fried with cotechino sausage and spiced beans, and baked with chorizo and tomato.
阿普利尔·布洛姆菲尔德(April Bloomfield)对鸡蛋的热爱可以在她餐馆的早午餐菜单上看出来：在布雷斯林(Breslin)餐馆，她提供了九种做鸡蛋的方法，包括煮鸡蛋搭配咖喱扁豆和酸奶，煎鸡蛋搭配熏猪肉香肠和五香豆，烤鸡蛋搭配西班牙辣香肠和番茄。
“There’s endless opportunities with eggs,” she said. “I love cooking them for breakfast, lunch, dinner, anytime. But brunch is when you can get really creative.”
“鸡蛋有无数种做法，”她说，“我喜欢用它做早餐、午餐和晚餐，毫无例外。但是早午餐是真正可以发挥创造力的时候。”
Even a more casual place like El Rey Coffee Bar and Luncheonette is raising the bar on typical brunch food. The chef, Gerardo Gonzalez, makes an egg terrine that crosses a frittata with creamy, savory bread pudding. It’s about the silkiest and most flavorful baked egg dish out there.
甚至连艾尔·雷咖啡馆(El Rey Coffee Bar)和小餐馆(Luncheonette)这些更随意的餐馆都改进了典型的早午餐食物。大厨热拉尔多·冈萨雷斯(Gerardo Gonzalez)做了一道蛋液烘面包，把煎蛋饼和柔滑美味的面包布丁结合在一起。它可能是市面上最柔滑、最美味的烘蛋大餐了。
Part of the reason brunch is often such a mediocre meal is because the people cooking it are miserable about being there (as vividly articulated by Anthony Bourdain in “Kitchen Confidential”). But as brunch menus become more interesting, both cooks and brunch fans become more engaged. These days, some restaurants are making everything from the butter to the jam and curing their own fish and pork products.
早午餐通常比较平庸的一个原因是厨师们为自己要早起做饭感到痛苦（安东尼·波登[Anthony Bourdain]在《厨房解密》[Kitchen Confidential]中生动地描述了这一点）。但是随着早午餐的菜单变得越来越有趣，厨师们和喜欢吃早午餐的人都更加投入了。如今，有些餐馆什么都做——黄油、果酱，甚至自己熏制鱼和猪肉制品。
All of this gives cooks a sense of pride, said Marc Meyer, who was an early brunch adopter when he started serving it at Five Points 15 years ago. Even so, he said, he had to get over the egg-flipping stigma.
马克·迈耶(Marc Meyer)说，所有这些让厨师们有一种自豪感。迈耶是早午餐改革者的前驱。15年前他在五点餐馆(Five Points)做早午餐时就开始了。他说，即便如此，他也曾不得不克服翻鸡蛋的耻辱。
“At first, I was reluctant to do brunch because it was a horrible experience when I was a young chef,” he said. “But I knew it didn’t have to be that way. My cooks can be just as creative cooking brunch as they can be at dinner.”
“起初我也不想做早午餐，因为我年轻当大厨时，它是糟糕的经历，”他说，“但是我当时就知道不必非要如此。我的厨师们做早午餐时可以和做正餐时一样有创意。”
And, it turns out, if you build a better, more exciting brunch, the crowds will follow.
结果证明，如果你供应更好、更令人兴奋的早午餐，就会有很多人蜂拥而至。
When Mr. Canora first wanted to start serving brunch at Hearth, he had to work hard to sell the idea to his management team. But from the moment it began, brunch has been a resounding success.
卡诺拉起初想在灶台餐馆供应早午餐时不得不努力让管理团队接受这个想法。但是从开始供应早午餐那一刻起，它就获得了巨大的成功。
“Should I have done it a long time ago? Probably,” he said. “But at least I got to sleep in for a few more years.”
“是不是很久以前我就该这么做了？很可能是的，”他说，“但是至少我多睡了几年懒觉。”
Mr. Mattos said that when he was trying to figure out a way to maximize his business at Estela, he debated whether to start with lunch or brunch.
马托斯说，他当初想找个办法扩大埃斯特拉餐馆的生意时，曾就增加午餐还是早午餐进行过讨论。
The decision was easy, he said: “Brunch is a sure thing.”
他说，决定很容易，“肯定得选早午餐”。