Is sex more important than music, war, sports and vampires? Is sex more important than Nixon?
性比音乐、战争、运动和吸血鬼都更重要？性比尼克松(Nixon)更重要？
Michael Sheen thinks so.
迈克尔·希恩(Michael Sheen)是这么认为的。
The nimble Welsh actor has played a royal flush of renowned men — Mozart, Tony Blair (three times), the English soccer manager Brian Clough and David Frost in “Frost/Nixon.” He also starred as a villainous vampire in the “Twilight” movies.
这位机敏的威尔士演员扮演过一系列知名男性——莫扎特(Mozart)、托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)（三次）、英国足球教练布赖恩·克拉夫(Brian Clough)以及《弗罗斯特/尼克松》(Frost/Nixon)中的大卫·弗罗斯特(David Frost)。他还在《暮光之城》(Twilight)系列影片中演过一个邪恶的吸血鬼。
Asked how he rates the importance of historical figures he has channeled, he places his current conjuring, William Masters in Showtime’s mesmerizing “Masters of Sex,” on top.
被问及如何评价自己塑造的那些历史人物的重要性时，他把现在正在施展魔法的地方，即迷人的Showtime剧集《性爱大师》(Masters of Sex)中的威廉·马斯特斯(William Masters)，放在了首位。
“Sex, sexuality, is something every single person has to engage in, whether you’re actively pursuing, avoiding, enjoying in the moment or regretting later,” Sheen says over tea at Trump SoHo, looking sharp in a black Armani suit and black Prada tie. “So anyone who’s played a part in affecting that, I suppose it’s about as wide-ranging as it gets, really.”
“性爱，性，是每个人都必须接触的事情，不管你在那一刻是积极寻求、避免、享受，还是事后会后悔，”希恩在特朗普休南酒店(Trump SoHo)喝茶时说。身着黑色阿玛尼(Armani)套装、系着黑色普拉达(Prada)领带的他看上去颇为时髦。“所以，参与影响这件事情的任何人，我认为几乎都和这件事情本身一样影响广泛，真的。”
Sheen contended that while the revolutionary research Masters did with his partner and later wife, Virginia Johnson, did not always lead them to correct conclusions — they claimed to have made some homosexuals straight and overstated how easily H.I.V. could be contracted — at least they were trying to measure things scientifically, unlike Alfred Kinsey, whose research comprised interviews.
希恩认为，尽管马斯特斯和他的情侣、后来的妻子弗吉尼亚·约翰逊(Virginia Johnson)所做的革命性研究并非总让他们得出正确的结论——他们声称让部分同性恋者变成了异性恋者，还夸大了多么容易感染上HIV——但他们至少是在尝试科学地测量一些东西，不像阿尔弗雷德·金赛(Alfred Kinsey)那种用访谈构成的研究。
“All you have to do is talk to someone about their sex life to get a sense of how untrustworthy each of us might be about that,” Sheen said dryly.
“你只需要跟某个人谈谈他们的性生活，就能知道我们在这件事情上是多么不可信，”希恩冷冷地说。
In the show, Masters suggests to Johnson that they have research sex, noting that “we get the benefit of interpreting the data first hand.” Later, he tells her it’s a condition of her job. But Sheen and the alluring Lizzy Caplan, plus the writing, soften the nasty coercion on his part and coldblooded careerism on hers with a subtext of mutual attraction.
在剧集中，马斯特斯向约翰逊提出，两人为了研究而发生性关系，称“这样可以利用第一手数据的优势。”后来，他告诉她，要做这份工作就得答应这个条件。但希恩和迷人的莉齐·卡普兰(Lizzy Caplan)，加上编剧，用寓意两情相悦的潜台词柔化了马斯特斯那种令人不快的强迫，以及约翰逊身上那种冷漠无情的事业至上。
Late in life, Johnson told the biographer Thomas Maier that she had never desired Masters, only the job.
晚年的约翰逊告诉传记作者托马斯·迈尔(Thomas Maier)，她从未对马斯特斯有过性欲，只是为了工作。
“It is sexual harassment,” Sheen said, but “they both have different agendas. Conscious and unconscious motivations are something we’re playing with in the show.”
“这是性骚扰，”希恩说，但“他们两人都有不同的意图。在剧中，我们正是在有意识的和无意识动机上做文章。”
He also suggests that there may have been “a bit of revisionism” on Johnson’s part, colored by the fact that Masters seemed to prefer his Doberman pinschers and left her after 22 years for a woman he’d had a crush on in college.
他还表示，约翰逊这个人物身上可能还有“一点修正主义”。事实上，马斯特斯似乎更喜欢他的杜宾犬，而且22年后，马斯特斯为了大学时迷恋的一名女子而离开了约翰逊。
“While at the beginning he was quite intimidating and wasn’t an easily likable man and Virginia was the one people warmed to, by the end, it had completely reversed,” Sheen said.
“尽管一开始，他很吓人，不是一个容易让人喜欢的人，弗吉尼亚令人感到温暖，但到最后，情况彻底反过来了，”希恩说。
He noted that there’s a “Beauty and the Beast” undersong to their telling of the relationship of Masters and Johnson, a sexually free woman who had a stint as a country singer and three divorces behind her when she became his secretary in her early 30s.
他指出，在讲述马斯特斯和约翰逊的关系时，暗含着一种“美女与野兽”的色彩；约翰逊是一名崇尚性自由的女性，曾经当过乡村歌手，在30岁出头的时候开始为他当秘书，当时她已经离过三次婚。
“He’s drawn to the beauty but at the same time can’t accept that she might see him as anything else than a monster, which I think is also the story of intimacy — how do you cope with someone seeing the ugliest part of you?” Sheen said.
“他被这位美女吸引，但与此同时，他觉得她可能只会把自己视为怪物，这让他无法接受。我想这也是关于亲密关系的故事——你如何对待那些看到你最丑陋一面的人？”希恩说。
He said he chose to play Masters as “one of the hardest characters to ever like in a lead role,” knowing that it would make the arrogant gynecologist’s rare displays of vulnerability more affecting. “I only ever play myself, with the volume turned up on certain aspects. If I was playing anyone else, I’d be acting and I hate acting.”
他说，他特地把马斯特斯演成“主角中最难招人喜欢的角色之一，”因为他知道，这样一来，当这位傲慢自大的妇科学家罕见地流露脆弱感时，就会更有感染力。“我只是在演我自己，把某些方面放大。如果我扮演别人，那就是在做戏，而我讨厌做戏。”
I note that the repellent Masters was the opposite of Blair and Frost, who tried to ingratiate.
我说，布莱尔和弗罗斯特喜欢迎合别人，惹人厌的马斯特斯则正好相反。
“American audiences, at that time anyway, tended to go, ‘Oh, we love Blair and we love what you do because you make him so likable,’ ” he said. “People hate Blair in Britain and saw what I was doing as a kind of criticism of him, that he was false, opportunistic, ambitious. Same with Frost.”
“美国观众通常会说‘噢，我们喜爱布莱尔，我们喜爱你的表演，因为你把他演得这么可爱，’反正当时是这样，”他说。而在英国，人们讨厌布莱尔，觉得我的表演是对他的一种批评，觉得他虚假、投机取巧、有野心。弗罗斯特也是一样。”
Sheen is also in the spotlight for his romance with Sarah Silverman, who came to New York with him.
希恩和莎拉·西尔弗曼(Sarah Silverman)的恋情也很引人注目。西尔弗曼跟他搬到了纽约。
When the 43-year-old Silverman won an Emmy for her HBO special, she made an affectionate reference to “Mr. Fancypants Sheen.” At another red carpet event, the raunchy comedienne grabbed her proper boyfriend’s butt.
43岁的西尔弗曼因为出演HBO特别节目荣获艾美奖时，她深情款款地提到了“超炫·希恩先生”。在另一次走红毯时，这位不修边幅的喜剧女星捏了捏举止得体的男朋友的臀部。
“She sort of makes a big deal of me doing Shakespeare and I know lots of words and it just makes me laugh,” said the 45-year-old Sheen, who, like Silverman, has never been married.
“我演莎士比亚剧，我知道很多单词，她觉得很了不起，这让我发笑，”45岁的希恩说。他和西尔弗曼一样，以前从未结过婚。
Not a fan of living in Los Angeles — he is there to raise his 15-year-old daughter, Lily, with ex-girlfriend Kate Beckinsale — Sheen said “one of the things I really appreciate about Sarah is that she’s not concerned about a lot of things that a lot of people are concerned about in L.A.” She’s “grounded,” he said, yet “just as out there and quirky and eccentric as anyone in L.A. but in a lovely way.” After they began dating last winter, she took a role in the Showtime show as a lesbian palm reader.
希恩不喜欢住在洛杉矶——他在那里抚养15岁的女儿莉莉(Lily)，其生母是希恩的前女友凯特·贝金赛尔(Kate Beckinsale)——希恩说：“我真的很欣赏莎拉的一个方面是，很多洛杉矶人担心的很多关于洛杉矶的事情，她不会担心，”他说她很“理性”，但是“像其他洛杉矶人一样外露、古怪、离谱，但是是可爱的那种。”他们去年冬天开始约会后，她开始在 Showtime的节目扮演一个看手相的女同性恋角色。
He seems like the buttoned-up part of the twosome — a variation on the odd-couple romance he had with Tina Fey on “30 Rock” as Brit Wesley Snipes — but Sheen has a wild side, or at least a “Where the Wild Things Are” side.
他看起来像是两人里比较老成持重的那一个——有点像他在《我为喜剧狂》(30 Rock)中和蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)出演的那对欢喜冤家，他扮演英国人韦斯利·斯奈普斯(Wesley Snipes)——但他有野性的一面，或至少有“野兽家园”(Where the Wild Things Are)的一面。