Tyne Daly needed a bowl of rice — but not to eat. No, the six-time Emmy-winning actress (four for “Cagney & Lacey” and one each for “Christy” and “Judging Amy”), Tony winner for the Broadway revival of “Gypsy” and current Tony nominee for Terrence McNally’s new play, “Mothers and Sons,” wanted to submerge her ancient flip phone in a bowl of uncooked rice to leech the moisture from it. “My toilet exploded!” she cried. “Water everywhere. All over my outfit and the phone in my pocket.”
泰恩·戴利(Tyne Daly)需要一碗大米——不过不是为了吃。戴利曾六次获得艾美奖最佳女演员奖（四次是凭借《警花拍档》[Cagney & Lacey]，另外两次是凭借《克里斯蒂》[Christy]和《艾米律师》[Judging Amy]），出演百老汇复排剧《玫瑰舞娘》(Gypsy)获得托尼奖，目前因为特伦斯·麦克纳利(Terrence McNally)的新剧《母与子》(Mothers and Sons)又获得了托尼奖提名。她要米是为了把自己那部古老的翻盖手机的潮气吸干。“我的马桶爆了！”她大声说道，“哪儿都是水。溅了我一身，口袋里的手机也进了水。”
At which point, Jim Parsons, the three-time Emmy winner for “The Big Bang Theory,” who made his Broadway debut in the 2011 revival of Larry Kramer’s “Normal Heart,” the film version of which has its premiere on HBO on Sunday, also confessed to some toilet trouble that day. “The apartment is crawling with plumbers,” he said. “They found a toilet brush lodged inside.”
吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)说那天自己家里的马桶也出了点问题。帕森斯曾凭借《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)三次获得艾美奖，2011年在百老汇首次亮相，出演拉里·克莱默(Larry Kramer)的复排剧《平常心》(Normal Heart)，该剧的电影版周日在HBO频道首映。“家里挤满了水管工，”他说，“他们发现里面卡了一个马桶刷。”
So it was with bathroom fixtures on their minds that Ms. Daly and Mr. Parsons met recently at Gramercy Tavern, and over lobster salad and lamb (for Ms. Daly), and mushroom and radish salad and black bass (for Mr. Parsons), they spoke with The New York Times about TV shows and Broadway stages, the AIDS crisis and interracial marriage, and their mutual love of their craft.
所以最近带着卫生间维修的烦恼，戴利和帕森斯与《纽约时报》的特约记者在谢来喜酒馆，一边吃着龙虾沙拉和羊肉（戴利）、蘑菇萝卜沙拉和黑鲈（帕森斯），一边聊着电视剧、百老汇戏剧、艾滋病危机、跨种族婚姻以及他们对表演的共同热爱。
Philip Galanes: To most of us, you just appeared one day as full-blown TV stars. Tyne in “Cagney & Lacey” and Jim in “The Big Bang Theory.” But you were in your 30s by then. Tell me about your early days.
菲利普·加兰：对我们大多数人来说，你似乎是一夜之间冒出来的电视明星。泰恩是因为《警花拍档》，吉姆是因为《生活大爆炸》。但是当时你们已经30多岁了。跟我讲讲你们早期的事业吧。
Tyne Daly: I think the 20s are a vastly overrated decade. We promise kids that once they get out of school, life will begin and their dreams will come true. But then comes the struggle. And you sure have to struggle in the theater. I also married at 19 and was starting a family.
泰恩·戴利：我觉得20多岁是被寄予过多希望的10年。我们跟孩子们说一走出校门，生活就开始了，梦想就要成真了。但实际上接下来的是奋斗。你肯定要在剧团里奋斗。而且我19岁就结婚、开始组建家庭了。
Jim Parsons: My God, you were busy.
吉姆·帕森斯：天哪，那可够你忙的。
TD: I was working in the theater here, but my husband [the actor and director Georg Stanford Brown] started his career in L.A., so I went, too, and worked in television. I played every known victim on TV for about 15 years before “Cagney & Lacey,” and I was 34 by then. Billy Wilder famously said there’s only one thing for an actress in Hollywood to do after 30: leave town. But just as it was supposed to be all over for me, it started to begin.
戴利：我当时在这里的剧团工作，但是我丈夫（演员、导演格奥尔格·斯坦福·布朗[Georg Stanford Brown]）跑到了洛杉矶发展，所以我也跟过去了，在电视圈工作。在我34岁开始主演《警花拍档》之前，有大约15年的时间，电视上所有的受害者都是我在扮演。比利·怀尔德(Billy Wilder)曾经有个著名的说法：好莱坞的女演员们30岁以后只有一件事可做——走人。但是就在我的事业本该结束的时候，它才开始起步。
JP: Isn’t that crazy? I started out in Houston, and did tons of theater. The cost of living is smaller. I still had to work as a cashier to help with expenses, but it was easier than moving to the coasts. Then I came to New York after grad school and did a few plays and commercials, a couple of failed pilots. Which is a long way of saying I kept myself moving. I wasn’t always successful. I thought I was doing well if my acting jobs led to unemployment checks to tide me over.
帕森斯：这太疯狂了吧？我是从休斯顿开始的，在剧团演了很多戏。那里的生活成本较低。不过我还是必须兼职做收银员来维持生活，但还是比搬到东海岸或西海岸轻松。研究生毕业后我来到纽约，演过几部戏剧，拍过几个广告，还演过几个没了下文的试播节目。都是瞎忙，说起来话长。我不总是成功。有戏演就演戏，没戏演就领失业救济过活，那就不错了。
PG: Acting is a funny business. If 80 percent of you are unemployed, why didn’t that scare you off?
加兰：表演是个有趣的工作。如果你们有八成的从业者都处于失业状态，那为什么没把你们吓跑呢？
JP: I felt scared. But there were so many versions of living the dream. Regional theater, touring shows. Just the opportunity to work was the dream. I don’t mean to sound Pollyanna, but I just knew I needed to act. And that was either foolish or accidentally very wise.
帕森斯：我害怕过。但是实现梦想有很多方式。地方剧团，巡回演出。只要有机会工作就美得不行。我不是盲目乐观，我只是知道我需要去表演。走这条路要么是傻，要么是碰巧很聪明。
TD: And I went into the family business. Both my parents were actors. I was schooled to think that acting was an important social service, that it was something that human beings need. Of course, my father told me an actor never has the luxury of saying no.
戴利：我是继承家庭传统。我的父母都是演员。我从小受到的教育就是表演是个重要的社会工作，是人类需要的一种东西。当然，我父亲告诉我，演员从来没有说不的奢侈权利。
PG: He encouraged you?
加兰：他鼓励你做演员吗？
TD: He didn’t want me to do it at all. It’s harder for a woman, but everything is harder for a woman. And it’s a crummy business, full of ugly stuff. What I like is the acting itself. But I’m a lousy celebrity. I’m not interested in selling my private life. I take my private feelings to the work, but I want there to be a difference between me and whoever it is I’m playing.
戴利：他一点都不想让我当演员。这个职业对女人来说更难，当然所有的工作对女人来说都更难。而且它是个肮脏的行业，充满了丑陋的事情。我喜欢的是表演本身。但是现在我变成了讨厌的名人。我对出卖自己的私生活没有兴趣。我会把个人感受用到工作中，但我想让自己和我扮演的角色之间有所不同。
JP: That’s the way to do it.
帕森斯：那是必须的。
TD: I also think Jim and I were wildly ambitious. I would go anywhere to do anything.
戴利：而且我认为我和吉姆都很有野心。我愿意去任何地方做任何事情。
JP: Exactly! Something in my DNA made me understand that whole “never say no” thing, that work begets work.
帕森斯：绝对是！我基因里有一种东西让我明白“永远别说不”这件事，一个工作会带来另一个工作。
PG: But you’re also quite good at it. It’s easy to think of long-running shows, like “Cagney & Lacey” and “The Big Bang Theory,” as marking time with big paydays. But have they helped improve your craft?
加兰：但是你们也很擅长表演。人们通常认为，出演长期上演的电视剧，比如《警花拍档》和《生活大爆炸》，是原地踏步，只不过是报酬丰厚。它们对提高演技有帮助吗？
TD: You get to practice every day.
戴利：你能每天都练习。
JP: And there is no substitute for the doing of it. This sounds overdramatic, but it is literally a game of survival every time you step out there. It’s frightening no matter how long you do it. It’s just a matter of becoming more comfortable with the fear.
帕森斯：什么都无法代替表演本身。这听起来可能有点夸张，但是每次你开始表演，实际上都是在进行一场生死游戏。不管你演了多少年戏，它都让人恐惧。只是你越来越适应那种恐惧。
TD: It’s the only job that gets harder with experience. Because you’re also getting older, and this is a business that eats its young. I remember a magazine cover when I first went to L.A.: This beautiful blonde with her ass in an ashcan, her arms and legs sticking out. And the headline read: “The California woman. Through at 21.” But I was never an ingénue. My destiny was to play mothers.
戴利：它是唯一一个越有经验越难做的工作。因为你也在变老，而这个行业是一浪推一浪。我记得我刚到洛杉矶时看到一个杂志封面：一个漂亮的金发女孩屁股坐在垃圾桶里，胳膊和腿伸在外面。标题写着：“加州女人。止于21岁。”但是我从来没演过天真少女。我天生就适合演母亲。
PG: What about Mary Beth Lacey, one of the first woman heroes on TV — not a girlfriend or a victim? A smart police detective ...
加兰：那玛丽·贝思·莱西(Mary Beth Lacey)呢？她是电视上的第一位女英雄——不是女朋友，也不是受害者。而是一个聪明的警探……
TD: And a mother.
戴利：也是一个母亲。
PG: Your new projects feel almost like companion pieces: HBO’s film version of “The Normal Heart,” which tells the story of those first searing days of the AIDS crisis, and “Mothers and Sons,” which juxtaposes the scarred survivors of that earlier period with a young gay man of today, who is much more optimistic about his ...
加兰：你们的新剧感觉像是姐妹篇：HBO频道的电影版《平常心》讲述的是艾滋病危机刚爆发时令人焦灼的日子，《母与子》把艾滋病早期伤痕累累的幸存者和如今的一个年轻男同性恋放在一起，后者对自己的……更乐观。
TD: ...Personhood. I think both plays are about being fully recognized as human beings.
戴利：对自己的个性更乐观。我认为这两部戏剧都是关于人类被充分认知的问题。
PG: Did they speak to you immediately?
加兰：他们是马上就跟你谈了吗？
TD: Actually, when the producer at Bucks County Playhouse [in New Hope, Pa., where “Mothers and Sons” had its world premiere] asked me about coming back, he told me he was approaching Terrence McNally for a new play. Well, I’d done the [Broadway] revival of “Master Class” with Terrence, and we had a mutual admiration society. So I said, “Yes!” — in a hot New York minute. And what evolved was a mother, the figure I’ve been defending in American culture for 50 years, who gets a pretty bad rap. And Terrence gave her a solid voice. It’s about a man who has figured out how to change with the times, and a woman who can’t, who is frozen by her loss: the death of her son [from AIDS]. But it’s much bigger than AIDS. It’s about people, as “The Normal Heart” is, about a man filled with rage. And Jim is beautiful in it.
戴利：实际上，巴克士郡剧团（位于宾夕法尼亚州纽霍普，《母与子》的全球首演就是在那里举行的）的制作人请我回去时告诉我，他正在和特伦斯·麦克纳利商量一部新剧。呃，我和特伦斯合作过《大师讲习班》(Master Class)的（百老汇）复演。我们早就惺惺相惜。所以我以纽约速度回复：“好的！”结果我要演的是一个名声极差的母亲，要知道50年来我一直在维护美国文化中的这个角色。特伦斯塑造了一个固执的女人。它讲述的是一个想出办法与时俱进的男人和一个无法适应时代变化的女人，她无法从儿子（因艾滋病）的去世中走出来。但是它的主题比艾滋病要宏大得多。它讲述的是人，像《平常心》一样，讲述的是一个充满愤怒的男人。吉姆在里面的表演很精彩。
PG: Jim’s character is so kind, which is crucial to the alchemy of that angry play.
加兰：吉姆的角色非常善良，这部愤怒戏剧的魅力，正是来自于此。
JP: It’s my favorite thing about the role.
帕森斯：在这个角色身上，我最喜欢的也是这一点。
PG: I’m imagining the three of us — 40ish, 50ish, 60ish — had very different experiences of AIDS.
加兰：我觉得我们三个——40多岁、50多岁和60多岁的三个人——对艾滋病有非常不同的经历。
JP: “The Normal Heart” was such an education for me, because even though I was alive and aware of AIDS, I was too young to relate to it on a meaningful level.
帕森斯：《平常心》对我来说具有莫大的教育意义，因为尽管我已经出生，也知道艾滋病，但是我当时太小了，不能从有意义的层次理解它。
PG: It didn’t feel like a threat to you?
加兰：你没有觉得它对你来说是一种威胁？
JP: No, it scared me to hear about it, but it wasn’t a personal threat. I was very young.
帕森斯：没有，听到它会感到害怕，但对我来说它不是直接的威胁。我当时非常年轻。
PG: I was a virginal 16 and convinced I would die of it.
加兰：当时我16岁时，还是个处男，但是我认为自己一定会死于艾滋病。
TD: “Sex will kill you.”
戴利：人们总说：“性爱会害死你。”
JP: Oh, that message got home pretty clearly. I knew that sex was an easy ride to death. I don’t regret that lesson, by the way.
帕森斯：哦，这话还真是把人给吓住了。那会儿我就认为性容易死人。顺便说一句，我不后悔得到那个教训。
PG: Living in the creative world you lived in ...
加兰：在你们演艺圈里……
TD: We lost people every week. We lost friends I had gone to acting school with, members of our company. There would be intimations that someone was sick, a flu. It all seemed to be code for death, and it was very scary and very sad.
戴利：当时每周我身边都有人死去，包括跟我一起上表演学校的朋友以及我们公司的同事。会有通知说某人病了，得了流感。那些都像是死亡代码，非常可怕，十分令人悲痛。
PG: There’s a brilliant line in Terrence’s play: “First it’s a chapter in a history book, then a sentence, then a footnote ... The pain dulled and drained away.”
加兰：特伦斯的戏剧中有一句精彩的台词：“历史书开始用一章来讲它，后来用一句话讲它，再后来它就剩个注释了——伤痛麻木了，渐渐消失了。”
TD: When I got married, my marriage was illegal in 17 states because my husband had a different skin color than I did. And we saw those laws go down one at a time. “What about the children?” people said. Obviously, our children were fated for tragic lives, just like gay people were fated to be desperately sad. Their worried parents saying, “But you won’t be happy.” And the women’s movement! I’ve been an actress for 53 years, and I’ve earned one-half to three-quarters of what any guy makes. The story of marginalized people remains the same: How can I make it clear to you that I am a sister and a brother and a fellow human being?
戴利：我结婚的时候，我的婚姻在17个州是非法的，因为我丈夫和我的肤色不同。我们看着这些法律一个个被撤销。“那孩子们呢？”人们问。很显然，他们认为我们的孩子注定要过上悲惨的生活，就像同性恋注定会很难过一样。他们的父母很担心，说：“但是你不会幸福的。”还有女权运动！我当了53年演员，但是我挣的钱只有男演员的一半或四分之三。边缘人的故事仍然没变：我怎么才能让你们明白我是你们的兄弟姐妹，我是人类的一员？
PG: Let’s go back to interracial marriage.
加兰：我们再谈谈跨种族婚姻吧。
TD: I hate that word. It sounds like I married a giraffe.
戴利：我很讨厌这个词。听起来好像我嫁给了一只长颈鹿。
PG: Did you ever feel there was a political dimension to your personal life?
加兰：你是否曾经觉得你的个人生活具有政治意义？
TD: In the beginning, not at all. I was in love. I looked at this guy and said: “There’s the father of my children. I’d better go introduce myself.” That was clear as crystal.
戴利：一开始，我一点都不觉得。我爱上了他。我看着这个男人心想：“这个人应该是我孩子的父亲。我得过去介绍我自己。”那种念头像水晶一样清晰。
JP: You married at 19?
帕森斯：你19岁就结婚了？
TD: Yes. I met him when I was 17. We have three children and four grandchildren, and he quit me like a fool when he was 50. But something happens to men when they’re 50. They get horribly scared. Even my brother [the actor Tim Daly] turns out to be a man. It’s so disappointing.
戴利：是的，我17岁遇见他。我们有三个孩子，四个孙字辈，他50岁时像个傻瓜似的离开了我。但是男人50岁的时候就会出现一些问题。他们变得非常恐惧。甚至我弟弟（演员蒂姆·戴利[Tim Daly]）也这样。非常令人失望。
PG: Hello, midlife crisis.
加兰：你好，中年危机。
TD: But our marriage wasn’t a political statement. We were mad for each other. It became a political statement in the eyes of other people. But we were protected by our two families that loved us. And by the artistic community, which at least pretends a level of tolerance.
戴利：但是我们的婚姻不是政治宣言。我们当时疯狂相爱。它在别人眼里变成了政治宣言。但是双方家人都爱我们，保护我们。至于演艺圈，至少装出了一定程度的宽容。
JP: It made it a lot easier for me to be a young gay man trying to figure out what I wanted, being surrounded by people who loved me.
帕森斯：我周围的人都很爱我，这让我轻松得多，我可以做一个年轻的男同性恋，弄清自己想要什么。
PG: I heard a speech Jim gave, for an award ...
帕森斯：我听过吉姆的一个演讲，在一个颁奖礼上……
JP: Todd [Spiewak], my partner, and I were given an Inspiration Award by GLSEN, an educational organization for gay and straight kids.
帕森斯：我的伴侣托德（·斯派沃克，Todd [Spiewak]）和我获得了GLSEN的鼓舞大奖，GLSEN是一个为同性恋和异性恋孩子们设立的教育组织。
PG: You said that it was hard for you to see your boring, loving life as anything like activism.
加兰：你说过你很难把自己平淡、充满爱的生活看做是某种激进主义。
JP: I felt like Tyne. Activism had nothing to do with it. It was as natural as it could have been. It was easier than going to the bathroom — literally, when you have toilets like ours.
帕森斯：我的感觉和泰恩一样。激进主义跟这毫无关系。它是再自然不过的事情。它比上厕所还容易——真的，如果你碰上我们这样的厕所的话。
PG: But having done “The Normal Heart,” and seeing what people had to go through to make it easier for us, can you see the issue differently?
加兰：但是演完《平常心》之后，看到人们不得不经历那些痛苦好让我们活得更轻松一些，你是否对这个话题有了不同的看法？
JP: In the abstract, I can see our lives as the offshoots of people who came before us, the fact that we didn’t have to ... I don’t know what word to use — worry?
帕森斯：理论上讲，我能看到我们的生活是前人努力的结果，我们不用再……不知道该用哪个词——担心？
TD: May I suggest “hide”?
戴利：我是否可以建议你用“隐瞒”？
JP: Yes, hide.
帕森斯：是的，隐瞒。
TD: When Georg and I were married, there were lots of interracial couples in Los Angeles who were sneaking around. I won’t name them for you because they had something invested in sneaking around.
戴利：我和格奥尔格结婚的时候，洛杉矶有很多秘密的跨种族情侣。我不能告诉你他们的名字，因为他们当时也是用心良苦。
PG: Like another kind of closet.
加兰：像另一种柜子。
TD: They felt threatened enough so they’d get a different date to go to the Oscars. So, maybe the difference is the openness that came so you didn’t have to ...
戴利：他们感到有威胁，所以他们去参加奥斯卡典礼时另外找个伴。所以，也许不同之处在于你可以公开，你不必……
JP: But that’s on the backs of other people.
帕森斯：不过那也是得益于其他人的付出。
PG: And it relates to the artistic missions of “Mothers and Sons” and “The Normal Heart”: remembering history and keeping it alive, no?
加兰：它跟《母与子》和《平常心》的艺术使命有关：记住历史，让它不为人们所遗忘，不是吗？
JP: One of the most instructive moments in the play, for me, comes when two characters are fighting over whether gay men should stop having sex until [the health crisis] gets figured out. And the older one, who was around for Stonewall — which was about the right for gay men to have sex, at all — just breaks down. And my line, trying to console him, is: “You’re a hero, whether you know it or not. You’re our first hero.” That’s where I connect to this. We have to keep moving forward, but we also have to keep remembering, so we don’t backpedal.
帕森斯：对我来说，这部戏最有教育意义的一刻，是两个角色在争论男同性恋是否应该在（健康危机）被弄清之前停止做爱。年长的经历过石墙暴动的那位——那次暴动从根本上讲是争取男同性恋的性爱权利——刚刚身体垮掉。我试图安慰他的那句台词是：“你是英雄，不管你知不知道。你是我们的第一位英雄。”我就是在这里感到共鸣的。我们是必须向前走，但是我们也需要记住历史，这样我们才不会倒退。
TD: But that’s the way of the world, isn’t it? Two glorious steps forward and one back.
戴利：但那是世界运转的方式，不是吗？向前辉煌地走两步，向后倒退一步。
PG: Seeing “Mothers and Sons” and “The Normal Heart,” I don’t know when I’ve been so moved. Is it an emotional roller coaster to perform them, or do actors have shortcuts and cheats?
加兰：看《母与子》和《平常心》时，我不知道自己是何时被如此打动的。这两部戏演起来真的是在情绪上大起大落，还是说演员们其实有些捷径和作弊方法？
TD: Yes, it’s a roller coaster, and no, there are no shortcuts. But there are compartments.
戴利：是的，真的是大起大落。没有捷径。但是有隔间存在。
JP: That’s a good way of putting it.
帕森斯：你这话说得好。
TD: The other day, my last-born child called me up and told me she’s engaged to be married. I was the happiest woman in America. I have to go on Skype and say: “Oh, honey, that’s great! Let me see the ring.” Then hang up and play the loneliest, most disappointed woman on the planet.
戴利：有一天，我最小的孩子给我打电话，告诉我她订婚了。我一下子成了美国最幸福的女人。我必须登录Skype说：“哦，宝贝，太棒了！让我看看你的戒指。”然后我挂了电话，开始扮演这个世界上最孤独、最失望的女人。
PG: And a minute later, you get an amazing laugh.
加兰：一分钟后，你开始令人吃惊地大笑。
TD: That’s Terrence. When David Hyde Pierce came to see us, he said: “That Terrence McNally, he keeps the funny going so long. It gets harder and harder, and all of a sudden, he builds in a laugh and keeps the funny going.” So does life, by the way. In the midst of getting ready for your big interview with The New York Times, your toilet explodes. I mean, come on!
戴利：那是特伦斯设计的。大卫·海德·皮尔斯(David Hyde Pierce)来看我们时说：“特伦斯·麦克纳利总能不停地逗趣。后面会变得越来越困难，突然之间，他插入一个笑话，让搞笑持续下去。”生活也是这样。就在你准备接受《纽约时报》的重要采访时，你的马桶爆了。我的意思是，拜托！
PG: How was performing in “The Normal Heart”?
加兰：《平常心》的表演是怎样的呢？
JP: It was the wringiest wringer I’ve been through on a live stage. And a lot of that had to do with the effect it kept having on the audience, which was honestly as hard to get through as many other parts. But it was a sheer joy to be in it.
帕森斯：它是我在现场舞台上经历的最痛苦的折磨。大半是因为它对观众不断产生的影响，实际上扮演很多角色都需要经历类似的痛苦。但是能参与它的演出绝对是快乐的。
TD: Did you feel the difference between doing it on the stage and making the film?
戴利：在舞台上表演和在电影中表演有什么不同吗？
JP: Yes, but less than I thought I would. But look, there are so many factors that go into whether something is working or isn’t, but the one I’ll point to here is that Larry [Kramer]’s script held up in both mediums. So in that way, it was shockingly undifferent.
帕森斯：有不同，但比我预见的不同要小。但是你知道，有很多因素决定着某些东西是否可行，但是我在这里想指出的一点是拉里（拉里·克莱默）的剧本在两种媒介中都行得通。所以从那个角度讲，它是惊人的相同。
PG: I suspect you’ll both be showered with awards.
格尔斯：我觉得你们都会获奖。
TD: We’ll see.
戴利：我们走着看吧。
PG: What do you mean? You’ve got eight million Emmys between you.
加兰：你什么意思？你们已经得了800万个艾美奖了。
JP: That’s close. That’s probably the number.
帕森斯：差不多，大概就是这个数字。
PG: Do all the awards seep in? Make you believe you’re quite good, in fact?
加兰：所有这些奖项是否潜移默化地改变了你们？让你们相信自己的确很棒？
JP: They do seep in. But they didn’t make me feel like I was better. It’s a huge honor. But it’s one of those weird life experiences that never feel completely real.
帕森斯：它们的确会改变我们。但是它们没有让我感觉自己更棒。它是巨大的荣誉。但这是那种你会一直觉得不太真实的、奇怪的人生体验。
TD: The contest part is weird. I like the nominations best because they feel like quality control. I had 14 years of series television and 14 nominations.
戴利：竞争环节很怪异。我最喜欢的是提名，因为它们感觉像是质量控制。我演了14年电视剧，获得了14个提名。
JP: Good Lord!
帕森斯：天哪！
TD: [TV writer and producer] Steve Bochco said to me: “After the first win, you get 28 bouquets of flowers, and then it’s less and less, and soon people are saying, ‘Oh, for God’s sake.’ ”
戴利：（电视编剧和制作人）史蒂夫·博奇科(Steve Bochco)对我说：“第一次得奖时，你得到28束花，然后越来越少，很快人们会说：“哦，看在上帝的份上。”
JP: “Would you go home?”
帕森斯：“没完没了吗？”
TD: “Meryl Streep, again?” No, the real prize is to be working.
戴利：“又是一个梅丽尔·斯特里普？”不，真正的奖赏是能一直工作。
JP: Exactly.
帕森斯：我完全同意。