President Obama’s hair is definitely grayer these days, and no doubt trying to manage foreign policy in a world of increasing disorder accounts for at least half of those gray hairs. (The Tea Party can claim the other half.) But having had a chance to spend an hour touring the horizon with him in the White House Map Room late Friday afternoon, it’s clear that the president has a take on the world, born of many lessons over the last six years, and he has feisty answers for all his foreign policy critics.
这些日子，奥巴马总统的白发肯定更多了，而且毫无疑问，这些白发中至少一半是因为要在一个混乱日益加剧的世界里努力管理外交政策才变白的。（茶党造成了另一半。）周五傍晚，我有幸在白宫地图室里，与他一起花一个小时的时间纵览全球局势。我发现，奥巴马总统显然对这个世界有自己的看法，而这些看法源自过去六年里的许多教训。对于其外交政策的所有批评者，他也能给出有力的答案。
Obama made clear that he is only going to involve America more deeply in places like the Middle East to the extent that the different communities there agree to an inclusive politics of no victor/no vanquished. The United States is not going to be the air force of Iraqi Shiites or any other faction. Despite Western sanctions, he cautioned, President Vladimir Putin of Russia “could invade” Ukraine at any time, and, if he does, “trying to find our way back to a cooperative functioning relationship with Russia during the remainder of my term will be much more difficult.” Intervening in Libya to prevent a massacre was the right thing to do, Obama argued, but doing it without sufficient follow-up on the ground to manage Libya’s transition to more democratic politics is probably his biggest foreign policy regret.
奥巴马明确表示，他会让美国更深地介入中东等地的事务，但程度仅限于促使那里的不同族群，同意建立一种既没有赢家也没有输家的包容性的政治秩序。美国不会为伊拉克什叶派，或其他任何派别扮演空军的角色。他告诫称，尽管受到了西方的制裁，但俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)在任何时候都“可能入侵”乌克兰，而如果他真要入侵，“在我剩下的任期里，尝试找到一个途径，与俄罗斯恢复一种尚可运转的合作关系，就会变得更加困难。”奥巴马称，在利比亚实施干预，防止大屠杀的发生是正确的，但是没有在利比亚当地安排充足的后续措施，引导利比亚向更民主的政治体制转变，或许是他在外交政策上最大的遗憾。
At the end of the day, the president mused, the biggest threat to America — the only force that can really weaken us — is us. We have so many things going for us right now as a country — from new energy resources to innovation to a growing economy — but, he said, we will never realize our full potential unless our two parties adopt the same outlook that we’re asking of Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds or Israelis and Palestinians: No victor, no vanquished and work together.
奥巴马若有所思地说道，总而言之，美国面对的最大威胁，也是唯一真正能削弱我们的力量，就是我们自己。作为一个国家，我们在很多方面的情况都不错，从新能源到创新，再到经济发展。但是他说，除非美国的两党也能做到我们对什叶派、逊尼派和库尔德人，以及以色列人和巴勒斯坦人所提出的要求——摒弃胜败之争，开始通力合作——否则我们永远都无法完全实现自己的潜力。
“Our politics are dysfunctional,” said the president, and we should heed the terrible divisions in the Middle East as a “warning to us: societies don’t work if political factions take maximalist positions. And the more diverse the country is, the less it can afford to take maximalist positions.”
“我们的政治有些运转不良，”奥巴马说，我们应该用中东可怕的分裂局面来“提醒自己：如果各政治派系采取极端的立场，社会就将无法正常运转。一个国家越多元化，就越不可能去采取极端激进的立场。”
While he blamed the rise of the Republican far right for extinguishing so many potential compromises, Obama also acknowledged that gerrymandering, the Balkanization of the news media and uncontrolled money in politics — the guts of our political system today — are sapping our ability to face big challenges together, more than any foreign enemy. “Increasingly politicians are rewarded for taking the most extreme maximalist positions,” he said, “and sooner or later, that catches up with you.”
奥巴马指责，共和党极右势力的崛起让很多本可能达成的妥协泡了汤，不过他也承认，选区重新划分之争、新闻媒体的两极分化，以及政界中不受控制的金钱运作——我们如今这个政治体制的真髓——正在削弱我们一起面对巨大挑战的能力，而这种影响远甚于任何外敌。“越来越多的情况是，政界人士由于支持了最出位的极端立场，从而获得了回报，”他说，“这迟早会让我们尝到苦果。”
I began by asking whether if former Secretary of State Dean Acheson was “present at the creation” of the post-World War II order, as he once wrote, did Obama feel present at the “disintegration?”
我的第一个问题是，如果说前国务卿迪安·艾奇逊(Dean Acheson)如他自己所写，“亲历了”二战后秩序的创建，那么奥巴马是否觉得自己在亲历它的“分崩离析”呢？
“First of all, I think you can’t generalize across the globe because there are a bunch of places where good news keeps coming.” Look at Asia, he said, countries like Indonesia, and many countries in Latin America, like Chile. “But I do believe,” he added, “that what we’re seeing in the Middle East and parts of North Africa is an order that dates back to World War I starting to buckle.”
“首先，我认为整个世界不能一概而论，因为有不少地方喜讯频传。”比如亚洲，他说，像印尼这样的国家，还有智利等很多拉美国家，都是这样。“但我的确认为，”他说，“在中东和北非部分地区，可以追溯到第一次世界大战的秩序开始松动了。”
But wouldn’t things be better had we armed the secular Syrian rebels early or kept U.S. troops in Iraq? The fact is, said the president, in Iraq a residual U.S. troop presence would never have been needed had the Shiite majority there not “squandered an opportunity” to share power with Sunnis and Kurds. “Had the Shia majority seized the opportunity to reach out to the Sunnis and the Kurds in a more effective way, [and not] passed legislation like de-Baathification,” no outside troops would have been necessary. Absent their will to do that, our troops sooner or later would have been caught in the crossfire, he argued.
但是，如果我们一早就为世俗派的叙利亚反政府团体提供装备，或者在伊拉克驻留一些美军，状况会不会更好呢？奥巴马回答，假如人口占优的什叶派的没有“挥霍”与逊尼派和库尔德人分享权力的机会的话，就根本没有必要在伊拉克驻留美军。“如果什叶派多数抓住机会，以更加行之有效的方式主动接触逊尼派和库尔德人，[而不是]通过清除复兴党之类的立法的话”，那里就不需要驻留外界部队。奥巴马认为，若是他们自己都没有这么做的意愿，我们的军队迟早会陷入夹缝之中。
With “respect to Syria,” said the president, the notion that arming the rebels would have made a difference has “always been a fantasy. This idea that we could provide some light arms or even more sophisticated arms to what was essentially an opposition made up of former doctors, farmers, pharmacists and so forth, and that they were going to be able to battle not only a well-armed state but also a well-armed state backed by Russia, backed by Iran, a battle-hardened Hezbollah, that was never in the cards.”
奥巴马表示，“至于叙利亚”，为反对派提供武器就会产生效果的想法“是一种幻想。有人认为，我们可以为基本上由曾经的医生、农民和药剂师等人组成的反对派提供一些轻武器，或者什么更加精密的武器，这样他们就将不仅足以对付装备精良的政府，而且还是一个有俄罗斯、伊朗及久经沙场的真主党(Hezbollah)支持的装备精良的政府——这样的好事永远都不可能发生。”
Even now, the president said, the administration has difficulty finding, training and arming a sufficient cadre of secular Syrian rebels: “There’s not as much capacity as you would hope.”
奥巴马表示，即便到现在，美国政府也很难识别、培训及武装足够多的叙利亚世俗反对派：“他们的本事没有大家希望的那么大。”
The “broader point we need to stay focused on,” he added, “is what we have is a disaffected Sunni minority in the case of Iraq, a majority in the case of Syria, stretching from essentially Baghdad to Damascus. ... Unless we can give them a formula that speaks to the aspirations of that population, we are inevitably going to have problems. ... Unfortunately, there was a period of time where the Shia majority in Iraq didn’t fully understand that. They’re starting to understand it now. Unfortunately, we still have ISIL [the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant], which has, I think, very little appeal to ordinary Sunnis.” But “they’re filling a vacuum, and the question for us has to be not simply how we counteract them militarily but how are we going to speak to a Sunni majority in that area ... that, right now, is detached from the global economy.”
“我们需要着眼的宏观层面是，”他还表示，“在伊拉克问题中，人口占少数的逊尼派感到不满，在叙利亚问题中，人口占优的逊尼派感到不满，基本上是从巴格达延伸到大马士革……除非我们能提供一个满足民众诉求的方案，否则我们不可避免会遇到问题……遗憾的是，伊拉克的什叶派多数在一段时间内并没有完全认识到这一点。他们现在开始认识到了。很不幸，我们如今还要面对‘伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国’（Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant，缩写ISIL）。我认为，他们对普通的逊尼派并没有多少吸引力。”但“他们在填补真空，而对于我们来说，问题不只是如何在军事上对抗他们那么简单，还有如何回应在该地区占多数的逊尼派的诉求……目前，这一地区与全球经济脱节。”
Is Iran being helpful? “I think what the Iranians have done,” said the president, “is to finally realize that a maximalist position by the Shias inside of Iraq is, over the long term, going to fail. And that’s, by the way, a broader lesson for every country: You want 100 percent, and the notion that the winner really does take all, all the spoils. Sooner or later that government’s going to break down.”
伊朗是在发挥正面作用吗？“我认为伊朗人所做的是，”总统说，“终于认识到，从长远来看，伊拉克什叶派的极端立场站不住脚。顺便说一句，这对各个国家来说都是一个适用范围更广的教训：你想要100%的胜利，赢者通吃，揽下所有战利品。但这样的政府早晚会崩溃。”
The only states doing well, like Tunisia, I’ve argued, have done so because their factions adopted the principle of no victor, no vanquished. Once they did, they didn’t need outside help.
我曾经说过，突尼斯等状况比较良好的国家，之所以能取得如此成绩，是因为各派别摈弃了胜败之争。一旦做到这一点，就不需要外界的帮助。
“We cannot do for them what they are unwilling to do for themselves,” said the president of the factions in Iraq. “Our military is so capable, that if we put everything we have into it, we can keep a lid on a problem for a time. But for a society to function long term, the people themselves have to make decisions about how they are going to live together, how they are going to accommodate each other’s interests, how they are going to compromise. When it comes to things like corruption, the people and their leaders have to hold themselves accountable for changing those cultures.... ... We can help them and partner with them every step of the way. But we can’t do it for them.”
“我们不能替别人做那些他们自己不愿做的事情，”提到伊拉克的派系矛盾时，奥巴马说。“我们的军队非常强大，如果把所有力量都投入进去，我们能暂时掩盖住问题。但对于一个长期运转的社会来说，民众自身需要决定如何共处，如何照顾彼此的利益，如何妥协。涉及腐败等问题时，民众及领导人需要担负起自己的责任，改变这样的文化……我们可以帮助他们，与他们一起走过每一步。但我们不能代替他们。”
So, I asked, explain your decision to use military force to protect the refugees from ISIL (which is also known as ISIS) and Kurdistan, which is an island of real decency in Iraq?
因此，我问道，能解释一下利用武力保护ISIL (ISIS)和库尔德斯坦难民的决定吗？库尔德斯坦自治区是伊拉克境内真正的世外桃源。
“When you have a unique circumstance in which genocide is threatened, and a country is willing to have us in there, you have a strong international consensus that these people need to be protected and we have a capacity to do so, then we have an obligation to do so,” said the president. But given the island of decency the Kurds have built, we also have to ask, he added, not just “how do we push back on ISIL, but also how do we preserve the space for the best impulses inside of Iraq, that very much is on my mind, that has been on my mind throughout.
奥巴马说，“我们看到了一种特殊情况，一个国家面临种族灭绝威胁，而且愿意让我们出手干预；我们也看到，国际上形成了需要保护这些人的强烈共识，而我们又有能力做到这一点；那么，我们有义务这么做。”鉴于库尔德人建成了一个世外桃源，他还指出，我们需要考虑的不仅是“如何击退ISIL，还有如何为伊拉克国内的最佳推动力保留空间。这个问题占据了我的大脑，我一直在思考。”
“I do think the Kurds used that time that was given by our troop sacrifices in Iraq,” Obama added. “They used that time well, and the Kurdish region is functional the way we would like to see. It is tolerant of other sects and other religions in a way that we would like to see elsewhere. So we do think it’s important to make sure that that space is protected, but, more broadly, what I’ve indicated is that I don’t want to be in the business of being the Iraqi air force. I don’t want to get in the business for that matter of being the Kurdish air force, in the absence of a commitment of the people on the ground to get their act together and do what’s necessary politically to start protecting themselves and to push back against ISIL.”
“库尔德人利用了美军在伊拉克的牺牲带来的那段时间，”奥巴马表示。“他们很好地利用了那段时间，库尔德地区正在按照我们希望的方式正常运转。该地区宽容地对待其他教派和宗教，我们希望其他地方也能如此。因此，我们的确认为确保这片土地得到保护是非常重要的。但在更大的层面上，我所表明的是，我不希望充当伊拉克的空军力量。同样，如果当地人民没有承诺齐心协力，采取必要的政治手段，开始保护自己，对抗ISIL，我也不希望充当库尔德的空军力量。”
The reason, the president added, “that we did not just start taking a bunch of airstrikes all across Iraq as soon as ISIL came in was because that would have taken the pressure off of [Prime Minister Nuri Kamal] al-Maliki.” That only would have encouraged, he said, Maliki and other Shiites to think: " ‘We don’t actually have to make compromises. We don’t have to make any decisions. We don’t have to go through the difficult process of figuring out what we’ve done wrong in the past. All we have to do is let the Americans bail us out again. And we can go about business as usual.’ ”
总统表示，“我们没有在ISIL开始攻击的时候对伊拉克各地展开空袭，因为这会消除努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)总理的压力。”他表示，这只会促使马利基及其他什叶派教徒这么想：“‘我们实际上不需要做出妥协。我们不需要做任何决定。我们不需要历经一个艰难的过程，搞清楚我们过去做错了什么。我们所需要做的就是让美国人再次帮助我们脱离困境。而我们可以一切照旧。’”
The president said that what he is telling every faction in Iraq is: “We will be your partners, but we are not going to do it for you. We’re not sending a bunch of U.S. troops back on the ground to keep a lid on things. You’re going to have to show us that you are willing and ready to try and maintain a unified Iraqi government that is based on compromise. That you are willing to continue to build a nonsectarian, functional security force that is answerable to a civilian government. ... We do have a strategic interest in pushing back ISIL. We’re not going to let them create some caliphate through Syria and Iraq, but we can only do that if we know that we’ve got partners on the ground who are capable of filling the void. So if we’re going to reach out to Sunni tribes, if we’re going to reach out to local governors and leaders, they’ve got to have some sense that they’re fighting for something.” Otherwise, Obama said, “We can run [ISIL] off for a certain period of time, but as soon as our planes are gone, they’re coming right back in.”
奥巴马说，他想告诉伊拉克各个派别的是：“我们可以成为你们的伙伴，但是我们不是你们的救星。我们不会为了控制事态的发展而派大量美国军队回到伊拉克。你们必须向我们证明，你们愿意且设法维持一个建立在和解基础上的统一的伊拉克政府，且为此做好了准备。你们愿意继续打造一支对文官政府负责的、没有教派倾向、能够发挥作用的安全部队。击退ISIL确实符合我们的战略利益。我们不会容许他们通过叙利亚和伊拉克建立什么哈里发王国，但是，只有确信我们的伙伴能够填补这个空白，我们才能做到这一点。因此如果我们要帮助逊尼派部落，如果我们帮助地方的统治者和领袖，他们必须明白，他们是在争取什么。”否则，奥巴马说，“我们可以让他们[ISIL]在一段时间内消失，但我们的飞机一走，他们立刻就会卷土重来。”
I asked the president whether he was worried about Israel.
我问奥巴马，是否担心以色列的局势。
“It is amazing to see what Israel has become over the last several decades,” he answered. “To have scratched out of rock this incredibly vibrant, incredibly successful, wealthy and powerful country is a testament to the ingenuity, energy and vision of the Jewish people. And because Israel is so capable militarily, I don’t worry about Israel’s survival. ... I think the question really is how does Israel survive. And how can you create a State of Israel that maintains its democratic and civic traditions. How can you preserve a Jewish state that is also reflective of the best values of those who founded Israel. And, in order to do that, it has consistently been my belief that you have to find a way to live side by side in peace with Palestinians. ... You have to recognize that they have legitimate claims, and this is their land and neighborhood as well.”
“以色列过去几十年的成就让人惊讶，”他回答说。“从一片不毛之地建立起这样一个充满活力、成功、富裕和强大的国家，这证明了犹太人的聪明才智、巨大能量和远见卓识。因为以色列在军事上是如此强大，我并不担心以色列的生存……我认为真正的问题是，以色列应该以怎样的方式生存。如何建立一个保持其民主和文明传统的以色列国。作为一个犹太国家，如何将以色列开国者的最佳价值观反映出来。而且我一直认为，为了做到这一点，你必须找到一种与巴勒斯坦和平共处的方式……你必须认识到，他们有合法诉求，这也是他们的土地和居住地。”
Asked whether he should be more vigorous in pressing Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and the Palestinian Authority’s president, Mahmoud Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen, to reach a land-for-peace deal, the president said, it has to start with them. Prime Minister Netanyahu’s “poll numbers are a lot higher than mine” and “were greatly boosted by the war in Gaza,” Obama said. “And so if he doesn’t feel some internal pressure, then it’s hard to see him being able to make some very difficult compromises, including taking on the settler movement. That’s a tough thing to do. With respect to Abu Mazen, it’s a slightly different problem. In some ways, Bibi is too strong [and] in some ways Abu Mazen is too weak to bring them together and make the kinds of bold decisions that Sadat or Begin or Rabin were willing to make. It’s going to require leadership among both the Palestinians and the Israelis to look beyond tomorrow. ... And that’s the hardest thing for politicians to do is to take the long view on things.”
在被问到是否应该更积极地推动以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯（Mahmoud Abbas，又名阿布·马赞[Abu Mazen]）达成以土地换和平协议的问题时，奥巴马说，这件事得看他们自己的意愿。内塔尼亚胡总理的“支持率比我高多了”，而且“受到了加沙战争的极大提振，”奥巴马说，“而且，如果他不感受到一些内部压力，他就很难做出一些非常艰难的让步，包括开始转移定居点。这件事很难办到。对于阿布·马赞来说，问题稍微有些不同。本雅明·内塔尼亚胡在某些方面太强大，而阿布·马赞在某些方面太软弱，因此无法坐到一起，做出萨达特(Sadat)或贝京(Begin)或拉宾(Rabin)愿意做出的那种大胆的决定。它需要巴勒斯坦和以色列的领导人把目光放得更长远……对政治家来说，以长远眼光看待事物是最难能可贵的。”