TOKYO — South Korea’s scrappy women’s hockey team has worked hard to earn an underdog’s right to challenge bigger, more experienced opponents at the Winter Olympics starting next month in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
东京——作为一支弱队，斗志旺盛的韩国女子冰球队经过努力，赢得了下个月在韩国平昌冬奥会上挑战更强大、更有经验的对手的权利。
But after years of effort to build unity among the players, including one from the United States and another American who became a naturalized South Korean citizen, the South Korean team is frustrated at suddenly being made a pawn in a geopolitical drama: In a grand gesture of sports diplomacy, the North and South Korean governments agreed last week to field a joint women’s hockey team at the Winter Games.
多年来，球队努力把球员团结起来——队中包括一名来自美国的球员，还有一名获得韩国国籍的美裔球员——但令他们失望的是，这支球队突然之间成了地缘政治的牺牲品：作为一种体育外交的隆重姿态，朝鲜和韩国政府上周同意在冬奥会上派出一支联合女子冰球队。
While the South Korean government views the inter-Korean team as a steppingstone to talks that could slow down the North’s nuclear program, the South Korean players say they are dismayed by the last-minute decision to insert North Korean players onto the team roster.
韩国政府认为，朝韩联队是谈判的跳板，也许能由此拖慢朝鲜核计划的进度，但韩国球员表示，她们对最后一刻将朝鲜球员加入球队的决定感到失望。
“All of us had to give up something in our lives, but we’ve been striving toward one goal: to play in the Olympics,” starting goalie Shin So-jung told the newspaper Chosun Ilbo on Friday. “We could bear it all because we’re proud to represent our country. That’s why we feel so devastated now.”
“我们所有人都不得不放弃生活中的一些东西，但我们一直在朝着一个目标努力：在奥运会上打比赛，”守门员申苏贞（Shin So-jung，音）周五在接受《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)采访时首先表示。“我们可以忍受这一切，是因为我们为自己能够代表国家参赛感到自豪。这也是我们现在如此痛苦的原因。”
The women’s hockey squad will be the first combined Korean team to appear at an Olympics. The last time athletes from both North and South Korea played on the same team was during an international table-tennis championship and a youth soccer tournament in 1991.
该女子冰球队将是第一支参加奥运会的朝韩联队。上一次朝韩运动员在同一支球队里比赛，是在1991年的国际乒乓球锦标赛和青年足球锦标赛上。
North and South Korea also reached an agreement Wednesday for their athletes to march together under one flag at the opening ceremony on Feb. 9.
周三，朝鲜和韩国还达成协议，决定在2月9日的开幕式上，让两国运动员在一面旗帜下入场。
With the official announcement on Saturday that 12 North Korean players would be added to the Olympic women’s team roster, with three of them mandated to dress for each game, some of the South Korean athletes fear losing playing time or being benched for some games.
周六，官方宣布12名朝鲜球员将被列入韩国奥运女子冰球队的名单，每场比赛必须让其中的三人上场比赛，所以一些韩国球员担心自己的上场时间会减少，或者某些比赛只能坐冷板凳。
“It’s hard because the players have earned their spots, and they think they deserve to go to the Olympics,” women’s coach Sarah Murray told the Korean news media last week. “The players said in June not to make them a political statement and that they just want to play the game,” Murray added. “I agreed with them.”
“这很难接受，因为球员们的位置是自己争取来的，她们认为自己有资格参加奥运会，”女子冰球队教练萨拉·默里(Sarah Murray)上周对韩国新闻媒体说。“球员们在6月份表示，不要把她们变成政治声明，她们只想打比赛，”默里还说，“我同意她们的观点。”
Within South Korea, criticism of the government’s decision to field an inter-Korean team has undermined the approval ratings of President Moon Jae-in, who has vocally supported the North’s inclusion in hockey.
在韩国，对政府决定派出朝韩联队的批评，导致总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)的支持率下降，后者曾公开支持朝鲜加入韩国冰球队。
According to the most recent Gallup poll, his rating has dropped to 67 percent, its lowest mark in 16 weeks. Polls taken in South Korea within the last week have also shown that many respondents disagree with the decision to add North Koreans to the roster.
根据最新的盖洛普(Gallup)民意调查，他的支持率已下降至67%，是16周来的最低点。上周在韩国进行的民意调查还显示，很多受访者不赞成将朝鲜球员加入奥运会阵容的决定。
On social media and in petitions filed with the presidential Blue House, South Koreans have shown sympathy for the South Korean hockey players. “I don’t think the athletes’ lives should be sacrificed for an event,” wrote one Facebook user, Jaeeok Kim. One petition opposing the inter-Korean team, submitted on the Blue House website, drew more than 50,000 signatures.
韩国人在社交媒体和写给青瓦台的请愿书中都对本国的冰球运动员表示同情。“我认为不应该为了某个活动而牺牲运动员的生涯，”Facebook用户Jaeeok Kim写道。提交至青瓦台网站上的一份反对朝韩联队的请愿书获得了5万多个签名。
“Can abstract values like ‘peace’ and ‘unification’ get ahead of individual freedom?” one commenter on the petition wrote. “South Korea is a free liberal country, not a socialist country. I hope the government will not force individual sacrifice.”
“‘和平’和‘统一’这样的抽象价值，能被置于个人自由之上吗？”请愿书上有人评论道。“韩国是一个不受约束的自由主义国家，不是一个社会主义国家。我希望政府不会强迫个人的牺牲。”
Lee Min-ji, a player who lost a spot on the Olympic roster to a naturalized Korean-Canadian player, posted — and then later took down — a long statement on Instagram, lamenting the decision to add North Koreans to the team as “extremely unfortunate.”
在竞争中输给一名已入籍的韩裔加拿大球员，从而失去参加奥运会机会的李民知(Lee Min-ji)，在Instagram上发了一个长篇声明，对朝鲜加入球队这一“极其不幸”的决定表示不满，但很快就删掉了该贴。
“How can one think that the players would take this situation in a good mood,” Lee wrote, “even when anyone can become such a sacrificed player?”
“怎么还会有人觉得运动员们能欣然接受这个情况，”李民知写道，“尤其是当每一个运动员都可能成为牺牲品的时候？”
Most of the players are still teenagers, and several have battled injuries and endured long commutes and punishing training along with the tormenting embarrassment of blowout losses.
大多数球员还是青少年，她们中有的曾与伤病搏斗，忍受了远途通勤的痛苦和严酷的训练，以及一场场耻辱性的惨败。
With the South Korean team ranked 22nd in the world, many around the team believe the decision to unite with North Korean players is rooted in disrespect. The men’s team was never considered for integration.
韩国冰球队世界排名第二十二，而球队中许多人都相信，联合朝鲜运动员的决定根本上就是一种不尊敬。没人考虑过建立男子冰球联队。
Last week, South Korea’s prime minister, Lee Nak-yeon, drew sharp ire when he said that the women’s team was not a medal contender anyway, implying that its athletic unity could be sacrificed for political unity. He later apologized for the comments.
上周，韩国总理李洛渊(Lee Nak-yeon)发表的一个言论引起了人们的愤怒，他表示，反正女子冰球队也没有角逐奖牌的希望，暗指为了政治团结可以牺牲体育运动的团结。随后他为该言论道歉。
Some analysts said the decision was simply sexist. “There is a degree of gendered notion that women’s sports aren’t as important and that they can be used in this soft cultural approach,” said Benjamin Young, a doctoral candidate in modern Korean history at George Washington University. “The South Korean government is not having two inter-Korean hockey teams, male and female. They are kind of making explicit their gender bias known. I can certainly understand why the team players, coaches and public are upset.”
一些分析人士表示该决定确实是有性别歧视的。“一定程度上，这有种女子运动并没那么重要、能被用于此类软文化接触的性别观念，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)朝鲜近代史的博士生候选人本杰明·杨(Benjamin Young)说道。“韩国政府不会组建男女两支朝韩联队。他们这算是在向众人昭示他们的性别歧视了。我自然能够理解为什么团队的运动员、教练和公众会感到沮丧。”
Some analysts said the opportunity to create a sense of unity and advance a peace process was more important than the team’s disappointment.
一些分析人士表示，相比球队的失望，营造一种团结的感觉，推进和平进程，要更重要一些。
“The public hoopla on how we are sacrificing the young Korean women’s Olympic dreams, I think, is another political statement with specific aims to undermine the fact that there is going to be some peace process going on with the Pyeongchang Olympics,” said Chung Yong-chul, a professor of sports psychology in the Graduate School of Education at Sogang University in Seoul. “All the people talking about how unfair it is for them to give up their spot, they didn’t even know what ice hockey was before this issue came up.”
“公众对我们如何牺牲年轻韩国女性的奥运梦想如此哗然，我想，是另一种有着特殊目的的政论，目的是要颠覆平昌冬奥会正在推进着和平进程这个事实，”首尔西江大学(Sogang University)教育研究生院体育心理学教授郑荣哲（Chung Yong-chul，音）说。“所有那些在说要他们放弃名额有多么不公平的人，在这个事情出来之前都不知道冰球是什么。”
For now, the South Korean teammates are putting in their last practices before the games begin next month. The slogan on their black warm-up shirts reads: “Make Korea Proud.”
目前，韩国队员正在为将在下月开始的比赛进行着最后的训练。他们穿着的黑色训练服上写着一句标语：“让韩国自豪。”