Shortly before the Sochi Olympics, Russian President Vladimir Putin played in an exhibition hockey game there. In retrospect, he was clearly warming up for his takeover of Crimea. Putin doesn’t strike me as a chess player, in geopolitical terms. He prefers hockey, without a referee, so elbowing, tripping and cross-checking are all permitted. Never go to a hockey game with Putin and expect to play by the rules of touch football. The struggle over Ukraine is a hockey game, with no referee. If we’re going to play — we, the Europeans and the pro-Western Ukrainians need to be serious. If we’re not, we need to tell the Ukrainians now: Cut the best deal with Putin that you can.
索契冬奥会举行前不久，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)在那里打了一场冰球表演赛。回过头看，他显然是在为夺取克里米亚热身。在地缘政治的意义上，普京给我的印象并不像是一个下棋的人。他喜欢冰球，而且不要裁判，所以肘击、绊倒、横杆推档都是允许的。要是和普京打冰球，千万别指望他按触身式橄榄球的规则打。对乌克兰展开的争夺就是一场没有裁判的冰球比赛。如果我们要打这场比赛，我们、欧洲人和亲西方的乌克兰人就都需要认真起来。否则我们现在就需要告诉乌克兰人：尽可能和普京达成最有利的妥协。
Are we serious? It depends on the meaning of the word “serious.” It starts with recognizing what a huge lift it will be to help those Ukrainians who want to break free of Russia’s orbit. Are we and our allies ready — through the International Monetary Fund — to finance Ukraine’s massive rebuilding and fuel needs, roughly $14 billion for starters, knowing that this money is going to a Ukrainian government that, before the overthrow of the previous president, ranked 144 out of 177 on the Transparency International list of most corrupt countries in the world, equal with Nigeria?
我们态度认真吗？这取决于“认真”这个词的涵义。首先要认识到，为那些希望脱离俄罗斯势力范围的乌克兰人提供帮助，任务多么艰巨。我们和我们的盟友，是否已经准备好通过国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)资助乌克兰大规模的重建和能源需求？起步资金需要140亿美元（约合870亿元人民币），要知道接受这笔资金的乌克兰政府在前任总统被推翻前，在透明国际(Transparency International)共有177个国家的全世界最腐败国家名单上位列144，与尼日利亚相同。
Moreover, we can’t help Ukraine unless we and the European Union have a serious renewable energy and economic sanctions strategy — which requires us to sacrifice — to undermine Putin and Putinism, because Ukraine will never have self-determination as long as Putin and Putinism thrive. Putin’s foreign policy and domestic policy are inextricably linked: His domestic policy of looting Russia and keeping himself permanently in power with oil and gas revenue, despite a weakening economy, seems to require adventures like Ukraine that gin up nationalism and anti-Westernism to distract the Russian public. And are we ready to play dirty, too? Putin is busy using pro-Russian Ukrainian proxies to take over government buildings in Eastern Ukraine — to lay the predicate either for a Russian invasion there or de facto control there by Russia’s allies.
除此之外，除非我们和欧盟有一套严肃的可再生能源和经济制裁策略（这需要我们做出牺牲）对抗普京和普京主义，否则我们也无法帮助乌克兰。因为只要普京和普京主义仍然气势汹汹，乌克兰就永远都无法实现自决。普京的外交政策和国内政策密不可分，他劫掠俄罗斯，即使在经济恶化时，仍用石油和天然气收入让自己持久掌权的国内政策，似乎需要乌克兰这样的冒险来激发民族主义和反西方情绪，转移俄罗斯公众的注意力。我们是否也准备好了玩阴招？普京正在忙着利用亲俄罗斯的乌克兰代理人，占领乌克兰东部的政府大楼，为俄罗斯入侵或者让俄罗斯在当地的盟友实质上控制政权制造口实。
Finally, being serious about Russia means being serious about learning from our big mistake after the Berlin Wall fell. And that was thinking that we could expand NATO — when Russia was at its weakest and most democratic — and Russians wouldn’t care. It was thinking we could treat a democratic Russia like an enemy, as if the Cold War were still on, and expect Russia to cooperate with us as if the Cold War were over — and not produce an anti-Western backlash like Putinism.
最后，要认真对待俄罗斯，意味着要从柏林墙倒塌后我们犯下的重大错误中汲取教训。这个错误就是以为我们可以在俄罗斯最弱小、最民主的时候扩大北约，俄罗斯不会介意；以为我们可以把一个民主的俄罗斯当做敌人，仿佛冷战仍在继续，又期待俄罗斯能够配合我们，仿佛冷战已经结束，同时不会激发普京主义这样的反西方声浪。
As the historian Walter Russell Mead put it in a blog post: “The Big Blini that the West has never faced up to [is]: What is our Russia policy? Where does the West see Russia fitting into the international system? Ever since the decisions to expand NATO and the E.U. were taken in the Clinton administration, Western policy towards Russia ... had two grand projects for the post-Soviet space: NATO and the E.U. would expand into the Warsaw Pact areas and into the former Soviet Union, but Russia itself was barred from both. ... As many people pointed out in the 1990s, this strategy was asking for trouble.”
就像历史学家沃尔特·拉塞尔·米德(Walter Russell Mead)在一篇博客文章里所写的：“西方从来没有直面过的大问题是：我们的对俄政策是什么？西方如何看待跻身国际体系当中的俄罗斯？自从克林顿(Clinton)政府做出了北约(NATO)和欧盟东扩的决定，西方对俄罗斯的政策……对前苏联地区就存在两大目标：北约和欧盟扩展到《华沙条约》(Warsaw Pact)的区域，并进入前苏联的范围，但这两个组织却禁止俄罗斯本身加入……就像许多人在上世纪90年代指出的，这种战略是在自找麻烦。”
One of those pointing that out was George Kennan, the architect of containment and opponent of NATO expansion. I interviewed him about it in this column on May 2, 1998, right after the Senate ratified NATO expansion. Kennan was 94. He had been a U.S. ambassador in Moscow. He knew we were not being serious.
指出这一点的人中就包括遏制战略的缔造者、北约东扩的反对者乔治·凯南(George Kennan)。1998年5月2日，我曾在这个专栏里撰文介绍了就此议题对他进行的采访，当时参议院刚刚批准了北约东扩。说这番话时，凯南94岁。他曾任美国驻莫斯科大使。他知道我们并不认真。
“I think it is the beginning of a new Cold War,” Kennan said to me of NATO expansion. “I think the Russians will gradually react quite adversely and it will affect their policies. I think it is a tragic mistake. There was no reason for this whatsoever. No one was threatening anybody else. This expansion would make the founding fathers of this country turn over in their graves. We have signed up to protect a whole series of countries, even though we have neither the resources nor the intention to do so in any serious way. [NATO expansion] was simply a lighthearted action by a Senate that has no real interest in foreign affairs.”
“我想这是一场新冷战的开端，”凯南这样对我评价北约东扩。“我想俄罗斯会逐渐采取相当负面的反应，那会影响我们的政策。我认为这是一个悲剧性的错误，这样做没有任何理由，谁都没有在威胁谁。这样扩张会让美国的立国者在坟墓里不得安息。我们承诺要保护一系列国家，尽管我们既没有资源，也没有意愿以任何严肃的方式这样做。［北约东扩］完全是参议院不假思索采取的行动，他们对外交事务其实并没有真正的兴趣。”