An infant who rose to fame on social media as the Bernie Baby after his mother took him to a Bernie Sanders rally dressed up as the Democratic candidate, complete with oversize glasses and a wild white wig, died on Feb. 25 at 4 months, his family said.
曾因扮演美国民主党总统候选人伯尼•桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)而在社交网络上走红的“伯尼宝宝”(Bernie Baby)于2月25日夭折，仅4个月大，他的家人宣布说。
The boy, Oliver Jack Carter Lomas-Davis, died at home in Venice, Calif., of sudden infant death syndrome, or SIDS, said Carlos Marroquin, a friend of his mother, Susan Lomas.
这个名叫奥利弗·杰克·卡特·洛马斯 - 戴维(Oliver Jack Carter Lomas-Davis)的男孩在加利福尼亚州威尼斯的家里去世，死因为婴儿猝死综合征(SIDS)，男孩母亲苏珊·洛马斯(Susan Lomas)的友人卡洛斯·马罗奎因(Carlos Marroquin)称。
Ms. Lomas announced the death in a Facebook post Tuesday. She had posted a brief tribute to him on Facebook the day before.
周二，洛马斯女士在Facebook上宣布了男孩的死讯。此前一天，她在Facebook上发表了一篇简短的悼文。
“Oliver Jack Carter Lomas ... I love you dearly, I love you most,” she wrote. “I love you with all my heart and soul. I know that God will keep you near since God and truth are here.”
“奥利弗·杰克·卡特·洛马斯 - 戴维……我深深地爱你，我无比地爱你，”她写道。“我全身心地爱你。我知道上帝会将你留在祂的身边，因为上帝和真理都在这里。”
Michael Briggs, a spokesman for the Sanders campaign, said Thursday that Oliver’s death was “very sad news.”
周四，桑德斯的竞选发言人迈克尔·布里格斯表示奥利弗的死讯是“非常令人难过的消息。”
SIDS is the leading cause of death in children ages 1 to 12 months, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The agency said it killed roughly 1,500 infants in the United States in 2014.The C.D.C. defines the syndrome as the sudden and unexpected death of an infant that cannot be explained.
据美国疾病控制与预防中心(the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)调查，婴儿猝死综合征是1至12个月大的婴儿最常见的死亡原因。该机构表示在美国仅2014年就有约1500名婴儿死于婴儿猝死综合征。美国疾病控制与预防中心将该综合征定义为：婴儿不明原因地突然意外死亡。
Mr. Marroquin said that he and Ms. Lomas are members of the Bernie Sanders Brigade, a group in Southern California that works to support Mr. Sanders’s campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. The boy’s mother first dressed Oliver as Mr. Sanders when the group marched with a pro-Sanders float in the Rose Parade in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 1, Mr. Marroquin said.
马罗奎因称他和洛马斯女士都是“伯尼·桑德斯旅(the Bernie Sanders Brigade)”的成员。伯尼·桑德斯旅是位于南加州的一个致力于支持桑德斯竞选民主党候选人提名的组织。1月1日，在加利福尼亚州帕萨迪纳市(Pasadena)的玫瑰花车游行(the Rose Parade)上，该组织举着支持桑德斯标语牌行进时，男孩的母亲首次将男孩扮作了桑德斯。马罗奎因称。
Online fame came a few weeks later, when Ms. Lomas and her son attended a Sanders rally in Las Vegas on Feb. 14, with Oliver dressed as the candidate. Mr. Sanders picked him up and posed for pictures. The images spread across the Internet at the speed of meme and crossed over into mainstream media outlets, where the image of Oliver in Mr. Sanders’s arms proved irresistible to newspaper photo editors and network television camera operators alike.
男孩在网上走红是几周之后的事了。2月14日，洛马斯女士和男孩参加一场在拉斯维加斯举办的桑德斯竞选聚会时，她将男孩打扮成了桑德斯。聚会上桑德斯抱起他并合影留念。照片迅速在网上走红并进入主流媒体。这张桑德斯抱着奥利弗的照片让报纸图片编辑和网络电视摄影师倾心不已。
Oliver is survived by his mother and her extended family, including six siblings.
奥利弗小小年纪就夭折了，留下他的母亲和他的六个兄弟姐妹。
Ms. Lomas shared a picture of her son and Mr. Sanders at the Las Vegas rally on Twitter on Tuesday.
周二，洛马斯女士在推特上发布了一张奥利弗和桑德斯在拉斯维加斯聚会上的照片。