This megacity of more than 20 million rang in the New Year with a pleasant revelation: the region registered 248 days in 2012 in which the air quality considered good.
在新年到来之际，这座拥有2000多万人口的超大城市发布了一则令人愉快的消息：2012年内，墨西哥城的空气质量有248天达到“良好”水平。
The results, recorded by the federal district government, are in line with a trend of improvement. In a region once disparaged as “Mexsicko City,” the skies have cleared sufficiently to change perceptions of a place once considered one of the most contaminated in the world. “The city, without doubt, has stopped being the ugly duckling of the international community,” the previous mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, boasted in his final state-of-the-city address before leaving office on Dec. 5.
这一数字是由管辖着墨西哥城及附近若干小村镇的联邦区(federal district)政府记录的，与该市空气质量的改善趋势相一致。墨西哥城曾是全球污染最严重地方之一，人们曾贬称其为“墨疾哥城”(Mexsicko City)；而现在，其空气的洁净程度足以改变人们对它的看法。“毫无疑问，墨西哥城不再是国际社会中的‘丑小鸭’了。”前任市长马塞洛·埃布拉德(Marcelo Ebrard)在12月5日离任前的最后一次市情咨文(state-of-the-city address)演讲中说道。
Mexico City has emerged as an aspiring environmental model citizen in recent years as the left-leaning local government has introduced everything from barter markets for recyclables to bicycle-sharing arrangements to zero emissions bus corridors.
从可回收物料交换市场，公共自行车计划，到“零排放公交走廊”，随着当地左倾政府推出一系列举措，最近几年来，墨西哥城已经树立了一个“有志气的环保模范公民”形象。
But it is the clearing of the air that has burnished the local government’s environmental credentials the most, especially given that other Mexican cities like Guadalajara and Monterrey regularly register days with worse air quality than the capital’s.
但最能为当地政府的环保成效增色的，还是空气变得愈发清洁了。尤其在瓜达拉哈拉(Guadalajara)和蒙特雷(Monterrey)等其它一些墨西哥城市的日常空气质量常常不如首都的情况下。
Previously, people in the provinces viewed Mexico City’s air situation as apocalyptic. “We can say that Mexico City is improving, while in the rest of the cities, it’s getting worse,” says Guillermo Velasco Rodríguez, director of planning and projects at the the Centro Mario Molina in Mexico City.
以前，外省的人们总把墨西哥城的空气状况看做灾难前兆。“我们可以说，在墨西哥城的状况发生改善的同时，其余城市的状况则在恶化。”墨西哥城马里奥·莫利纳中心(Centro Mario Molina)的规划和项目部主任吉列尔莫·贝拉斯科·罗德里格斯表示(Guillermo Velasco Rodríguez)。
It’s a sharp change from the early 1990s, when Mexico City’s problems seemed intractable – a product of unfavorable geography and poor urban planning, Mr. Velasco says. Mexico City covers a closed high-altitude valley that traps contamination. The metropolitan area, meanwhile, mushroomed as internal migration brought the nation’s downtrodden masses to the outskirts of Mexico City, where they built shanties that later became sprawling suburbs.
贝拉斯科说，自20世纪90年代初以来，情况已经发生了剧变；在那时候，墨西哥城的空气质量问题看起来似乎难以解决——是不利的地形条件和城市规划不善相结合的产物。一方面，封闭的高海拔山谷地带把受到污染的空气困在城中；另一方面，墨西哥城又在迅速扩张，国内大量贫穷人口迁移到首都的市郊，在那里搭建窝棚，而后就形成了无序蔓延的城郊。
The federal government began taking some steps to fix the situation in the 1980s, Mr. Vesalco said. It began measuring air quality and listing scores on something known as the Metropolitan Air Quality Index. The initial scores were unflattering: Mexico City registered scores of less than 50 – air quality that was considered good and posing a low risk to human health – just eight times in 1992.
贝拉斯科说，从20世纪80年代起，联邦政府采取了一些改善措施。他们开始测量空气质量，并发布“都市空气质量指数”(Metropolitan Air Quality Index)。最初的分数毫无可喜之处：在1992年，墨西哥城分数低于50分（表示空气质量“良好”，给人体健康造成的风险不大）的天数，只有八天。
The state-run oil company Pemex started selling low-sulfur gasoline. Big industrial operations like a once-polluting Pemex refinery moved to more outlying areas or were closed. A program known as “Hoy No Circula,” loosely translated as “No Driving Today,” kept cars off the road one workday each week. The federal, Mexico City and Mexico state governments – the latter being responsible for the outlying suburbs, home to an estimated 11 million residents – also created a joint commission on improving air quality.
墨西哥的国营石油公司Pemex（全称Petroleos Mexicanos [西班牙语：墨西哥石油公司]）开始出售低硫汽油。大型工厂——如Pemex旗下一家曾经污染严重的炼油厂，被搬迁到更边远的地区，或者被关停。一项名为“Hoy No Circula”、大意是“今天不开车”的计划开始被推行，每周都有某一个工作日禁止汽车上路行驶。联邦政府、墨西哥城市政府，以及负责拥有1100万居民的远郊区的墨西哥州政府，还组建了一个旨在改善空气质量的联合委员会。
The commission brought some continuity to addressing the problem – something difficult in Mexico, where the federal and state governments change every six years and an absence of re-election discourages long-term planning.
从某种程度上说，这个委员会保证了空气质量改善项目的连续性——这在墨西哥是一件难事，因为联邦和各州政府每六年就会换届一次，且无法再次参选，这不利于长期规划的制定。
The current federal district government is quick to credit the work of past administrations from the same party, the Democratic Party of the Revolution, which won power in 1997, the first year that mayoral elections were held. (The federal district was previously ruled by a regent appointed by the president.)
墨西哥城的本届政府很快就认可了同样来自民主革命党(Democratic Revolutionary Party)的上届政府的努力。上届政府于1997年在墨西哥城的首界市长选举中获胜（此前墨西哥城由总统任命的一位官员主政）。
Tanya Müller García, the local environment secretary, presents posters charting the city’s air quality since 1986, when such record-keeping began, to underline how much the air has improved. Index scores topped 200 on a 500-point scale in the early years – bad enough that the local government could close schools and industry. No such scores have been registered since May 2003, while the number of good days steadily climbed from 181 days in 2008 to 211 days in 2011 to last year’s 248.
为说明空气质量的改善程度，当地环境部长塔亚·穆勒·加西亚(Tanya Müller García)展示了几份根据该市空气质量数据绘制成的图表海报，从最早开始记录数据的1986年起计。在最初几年，这一分数常常高达200分，而总分是500分——这样的分数非常糟糕，足以让当地政府宣布学生停课，工厂停工。自2003年5月之后，这样的分数没有再出现过，而空气质量“良好”的天数稳步攀升，从2008年的181天，2011年的211天，直至去年达到了248天。
And Mexico City has been quite innovative in public policy, Ms. Müller said. She mentioned initiatives like the Metrobus, a system of clean-burning buses plying dedicated lanes that has encouraged commuters to leave their cars at home. A new bicycle-sharing service known as Ecobici proved so popular that it developed a six-week waiting list. Hoy No Circula was expanded to Saturdays, when older, out-of-state vehicles entered the city more frequently, and only vehicles manufactured since the 2005 model year may circulate daily without restrictions.
穆勒说，墨西哥城在公共政策方面勇于创新，Metrobus就是一例。这是一种由使用清洁燃料、定期往返于专用车道的公交车辆组成的系统，鼓励人们乘坐它上下班，而不是自己驾车出行。该市还新推出了一项名为Ecobici的公共自行车服务，事实证明它大受欢迎，乃至推出了一个长达六周的等候名单。当更加陈旧、状况不佳的车辆更为频繁地涌入墨西哥城时，“今天不开车”计划也被延伸到了每个周六；而且，只有2005年之后新问世的车型才可以每日行驶，不受任何限制。
Vehicle emission verification was also toughened, and centralized monitoring of the computers used in the tests was introduced to combat corruption. “Verification centers used to be able to manipulate” the system easily, said Alejandro Ramos, an environmental reporter for the newspaper Reforma. “It’s harder now.”
对于车辆排放的检测也开始更加严格；为防止腐败，墨西哥城采用了计算机集中监控的做法。《改革报》(Reforma)的环境记者亚历杭德罗·拉莫斯(Alejandro Ramos)说：“检测中心曾经能够轻易地操纵系统，现在就比较困难了。”
Challenges remain, though. Mr. Ramos said that standards in Mexico State are less stringent than in Mexico City, prompting some with older cars to replate in the suburbs. Some poorer suburbs experienced an environmental precontingency over the Christmas holidays because of fireworks and the burning of tires and other trash in bonfires.
然而，挑战依然存在。拉莫斯说，与墨西哥城相比，墨西哥州的标准比较宽松，这就激励一些较陈旧的车辆到郊区重新上了牌照。圣诞节期间，由于一些比较贫穷的郊区燃放烟花以及用火堆焚烧轮胎和其它垃圾，空气质量降至“预警”(precontingency)级别。
Measuring fine particulate matter is another problem. “Air quality has improved in terms of certain contaminants, but the monitoring service we have in Mexico City doesn’t measure contaminants such as 2.5″ — particles measuring less than 2.5 micrometers in diameter — from mobile sources, said Gabriel Niño, public policy coordinator at the Mexican Environmental Law Center. And generous gasoline subsidies keep the price of Mexican gasoline lower than in the United States and mostly benefit the rich, creating disincentives for motorists to stop driving, Mr. Velasco said.
另外一个问题，是细颗粒物的检测。“只就某些污染物而言，墨西哥城的空气质量确实有所改善，但是我们的监测系统并没有测量PM2.5——即直径小于2.5微米的颗粒——这样的污染物。”加布里埃尔·尼诺(Gabriel Niño)说，他是墨西哥环境法中心(Mexican Environmental Law Center)的公共政策协调员。贝拉斯科则表示，墨西哥的汽油补贴政策很慷慨，使得国内的汽油价格低于美国，而且主要受益者是富人。这项政策不利于鼓励人们放弃开车。
The region also lacks urban density, he adds, with workers buying homes through government housing programs in far-off municipalities, which means a commute on clogged roads lasting more than two hours.
贝拉斯科补充道，墨西哥城的城市人口密度不高，通过政府住房计划购房的工人们都住在遥远的自治区域。这意味着，他们在乘车上下班时，在拥堵的道路上花费的时间超过两个小时。
Still, there has been enormous progress over the last 25 years. “It’s like running a marathon,” Mr. Velasco said. “We’re halfway there.”
不过，在过去的25年中，墨西哥城仍然取得了巨大进步。“治理空气污染就像在跑马拉松，”贝拉斯科说，“我们已经完成了半程。”