ACROSS cultures and industries, managers strongly prize “cultural fit” — the idea that the best employees are like-minded. One recent survey found that more than 80 percent of employers worldwide named cultural fit as a top hiring priority.
在很多文化和行业中，管理者都非常重视“文化契合度”——这指的是，志同道合的员工是最好的员工。最近的一项调查发现，全球有逾80%的雇主把文化契合度作为聘用员工的首要条件之一。
When done carefully, selecting new workers this way can make organizations more productive and profitable. But cultural fit has morphed into a far more nebulous and potentially dangerous concept. It has shifted from systematic analysis of who will thrive in a given workplace to snap judgments by managers about who they’d rather hang out with. In the process, fit has become a catchall used to justify hiring people who are similar to decision makers and rejecting people who are not.
如果运用得谨慎适当，用这种方式挑选新的员工，可以给公司带来更高的效率和盈利能力。但文化契合度已经演变成一个远比从前更加模糊的的概念，而且可能蕴含着危险。它原本是一个系统性的分析，以了解哪些人可以在特定工作场所里如鱼得水，现在则变成了管理者快速做出判断，自己更愿意与谁一起消磨时光。在这个过程中，契合度已变成一种万金油，为录用那些与决策者相似的人，将那些不相似的人拒之门外提供理由。
The concept of fit first gained traction in the 1980s. The original idea was that if companies hired individuals whose personalities and values — and not just their skills — meshed with an organization’s strategy, workers would feel more attached to their jobs, work harder and stay longer. For Southwest Airlines, screening job candidates based on their willingness to provide a wacky experience for strangers contributed to the fun environment that enabled the company’s financial success. Likewise, for the investment firm Bridgewater Associates, which seeks to distinguish itself through its pursuit of transparency and honesty, screening out potential hires who couldn’t handle criticism made good business sense.
在20世纪80年代，契合度这个概念首次登上台面。它最初的含义是说，如果组织聘请某个人，此人的个性和价值观——而不仅仅是其技能——与公司的战略相吻合，那么这个人就会对工作更有归属感，会更加努力地工作，留在公司的时间也更长。美国西南航空公司(Southwest Airlines)筛选应聘者的基础条件是，他们是否意愿为陌生人提供奇奇怪怪的体验，从而营造妙趣横生的氛围，让公司在经济层面获得成功。与之类似，布里奇沃特投资公司(Bridgewater Associates)格外重视透明度和诚信，因此会将那些无法接受批评意见的应聘者拒之门外，而这种做法在商业层面相当合理。
But in many organizations, fit has gone rogue. I saw this firsthand while researching the hiring practices of the country’s top investment banks, management consultancies and law firms. I interviewed 120 decision makers and spent nine months observing the recruiting practices of one firm in particular. The professionals I spoke with, who were charged with reviewing applications and conducting interviews, consistently underscored the importance of cultural fit in hiring. While résumés (and connections) influenced which applicants made it into the interview room, interviewers’ perceptions of fit strongly shaped who walked out with job offers.
但在很多组织中，契合度已经变了味。我在研究美国的顶级投资银行、管理咨询公司和律师事务所的雇用行为时，亲眼看到这种情况。我采访了120名决策者，花了9个月时间观察一家特定公司的招聘行为。我与一些负责审阅申请书和进行面试的专业人士交谈，他们一直强调文化契合度在雇用员工方面的重要性。虽然简历（和关系人）会对一个应聘者是否获得面试产生影响，但面试官对契合度的感觉却极大地决定了谁会最终被录取。
Crucially, though, for these gatekeepers, fit was not about a match with organizational values. It was about personal fit. In these time- and team-intensive jobs, professionals at all levels of seniority reported wanting to hire people with whom they enjoyed hanging out and could foresee developing close relationships with. Fit was different from the ability to get along with clients. Fundamentally, it was about interviewers’ personal enjoyment and fun. Many, like one manager at a consulting firm, believed that “when it’s done right, work is play.”
但重要的是，对于这些掌握录用大权的人来说，契合度不是指应聘者与组织价值观之间的匹配度，而是人际层面的融洽度。这些工作对时间和团队合作要求很高，各个层级的专业人士都希望雇用他们喜欢与之一起消磨时光，而且有望与之培养密切关系的人。契合度不同于与客户相处的能力。从根本上说，它在乎于面试官的个人兴致与趣味。一家咨询公司的管理者认为，“只要方法正确，工作就像玩耍一样。”很多人都有这样的看法。
To judge fit, interviewers commonly relied on chemistry. “The best way I could describe it,” one member of a law firm’s hiring committee told me, “is like if you were on a date. You kind of know when there’s a match.” Many used the “airport test.” As a managing director at an investment bank put it, “Would I want to be stuck in an airport in Minneapolis in a snowstorm with them?”
面试官判断应聘者的契合度时，通常是在跟着感觉走。“我能想出的最好形容方式”，一家律师事务所的招聘委员会成员告诉我，“就是好像你在赴约会。如果对方合适，你就会感觉得到。”很多人采用的是“机场测试”，用一名投资银行董事总经理的话来说，即“我愿意在暴风雪中与他们一起被困在明尼阿波利斯机场吗？”
Discovering shared experiences was one of the most powerful sources of chemistry, but interviewers were primarily interested in new hires whose hobbies, hometowns and biographies matched their own. Bonding over rowing college crew, getting certified in scuba, sipping single-malt Scotches in the Highlands or dining at Michelin-starred restaurants was evidence of fit; sharing a love of teamwork or a passion for pleasing clients was not. Some (former) athletes fit exclusively with other athletes; others fit only with those who played the same sport. At one hiring committee meeting I attended, I watched a partner who was an avid Red Sox fan argue for rejecting a Yankees supporter on the grounds of misfit.
发现与对方有共同经历，是“有感觉”的最大源泉之一，但面试官把重点放在了新员工的兴趣爱好、家乡，以及履历是否和自己相符上。参加过大学里的赛艇队，获得过潜水执照，在苏格兰高地品尝过单一麦芽威士忌，或在米其林星级餐厅就餐，这些都可以是契合的证据；而热爱团队工作，或热衷于让客户感到满意，这些不是证据。有些（前）运动员唯一觉得有契合度的人同样也是运动员；还有一些只对参加同种运动的人有这种感觉。我曾经参加过一次招聘委员会会议，其中一个合伙人是狂热的红袜队(Red Sox)球迷，他主张以不契合为由，将一个洋基队(Yankees)球迷拒之门外。
Selecting new employees based on personal similarities is by no means unique to banking, consulting or law; it has become a common feature of American corporate culture. Employers routinely ask job applicants about their hobbies and what they like to do for fun, while a complementary self-help industry informs white-collar job seekers that chemistry, not qualifications, will win them an offer.
绝不是只有银行、咨询公司或律所才根据个人的相似性选择新员工；这已成为美国企业文化的共同特征。雇主通常会询问应聘者有什么兴趣爱好，一个与之匹配的成功学行业则告诉白领工作求职者，能让他们获得录用的不是学历，而是“有没有感觉”。
Although diversity in many industries has increased in recent decades, progress in the corporate realm has been slower than expected. Selection based on personal fit can keep demographic and cultural diversity low. In the elite firms I studied, the types of shared experiences associated with fit typically required large investments of time and money.
虽然近几十年来，很多行业中的多样性都有所增加，但商务领域的进展一直慢于预期。根据个人契合度来挑选员工，可能会压低人口和文化的多样性。在我调查的那些精英公司中，那些与契合度相关的共同经历，通常需要投入大量的时间和金钱才能获得。
Class-biased definitions of fit are one reason investment banks, management consulting firms and law firms are dominated by people from the highest socioeconomic backgrounds. Also, whether the industry is finance, high-tech or fashion, a good fit in most American corporations still tends to be stereotypically masculine. Consequently, fit can exclude high-performing candidates — female or male — who are more stereotypically feminine.
在投资银行、管理咨询公司和律师事务所中，大部分人都有最高层级的社会经济背景，原因之一就是对契合度的界定会受阶层的影响。此外，无论是金融、高科技，还是时尚行业，大多数美国公司仍然觉得，传统意义上的男性气质代表着契合度较高。因此，如果一名优秀的候选人更具传统意义上的女性气质——无论是男性还是女性，都可能会被拒之门外。
Some may wonder, “Don’t similar people work better together?” Yes and no. For jobs involving complex decisions and creativity, more diverse teams outperform less diverse ones. Too much similarity can lead to teams that are overconfident, ignore vital information and make poor (or even unethical) decisions.
也许有人会问，“相似的人不是可以更好地共事吗？”是也不是。对于涉及复杂决策和创造性的工作，多样化程度高的团队表现优于程度低的。太多的相似性会让团队变得过度自信，忽略重要信息，做出糟糕的（甚至是不道德的）决定。
When it comes to creating a cohesive work force, managers often discount the power of shared experiences on the job, especially working interdependently on a high-stakes project. The more time we spend with co-workers, the more similar to them we tend to become. When hiring, do we really need an additional screen on whether people drink wine or whiskey or enjoy Nascar or Nabokov?
当谈到培养一支有凝聚力的工作队伍时，管理人员经常低估的一件事的力量，那就是员工在工作上拥有共同经历，特别是在一个高风险项目中开展相互依存的工作的经历。我们与同事待在一起的时间越多，往往就会变得与他们越相似。所以，在招聘的时候，我们真的需要一个额外的筛选条件，来考察人们喝葡萄酒还是或威士忌，喜欢纳斯卡车赛还是纳博科夫(Nabokov)吗？
Perhaps most important, it is easy to mistake rapport for skill. Just as they erroneously believe that they can accurately tell when someone is lying, people tend to be overly confident in their ability to spot talent. Unstructured interviews, which are the most popular hiring tools for American managers and the primary way they judge fit, are notoriously poor predictors of job performance.
也许最重要的是，人们很容易把融洽的关系误认为是技能。正如人们错误地认为，自己可以准确判断出别人是否在说谎，人们往往也对自己发现人才的能力过度自信。在美国的管理者中，非结构化面试是最流行的招聘工具，也是他们判断契合度的主要方式，但用它来预测工作业绩的效果非常糟糕。
Fit can work, but personal similarity is not the key. Organizations that use cultural fit for competitive advantage tend to favor concrete tools like surveys and structured interviews that systematically test behaviors associated with increased performance and employee retention. For managers who want to use cultural fit in a more productive way, I have several suggestions.
契合度可以起到一些作用，但个人相似性并不重要。利用文化契合度来获取竞争优势的公司，倾向于使用调查问卷和结构化面试这样一些具体工具；结构化面试会系统地对一些行为加以测试，这些行为与更好的业绩和员工留任状况有关。以下是我的几个建议，可供那些想要以更加高效的方式利用文化契合度的管理人员参考。
First, communicate a clear and consistent idea of what the organization’s culture is (and is not) to potential employees. Second, make sure the definition of cultural fit is closely aligned with business goals. Ideally, fit should be based on data-driven analysis of what types of values, traits and behaviors actually predict on-the-job success. Third, create formal procedures like checklists for measuring fit, so that assessment is not left up to the eyes (and extracurriculars) of the beholder.
首先，要与潜在员工进行沟通，对于组织文化是什么（不是什么）给出明确一致的说法。第二，要确保文化契合度的界定与业务目标紧密地保持一致。在理想情况下，契合度应该以数据驱动的分析为依据，分析哪些类型的价值观、特征和行为可以用来预测工作中的成功。第三，创建像检查表这样的正规程序，以防受到观察者的主观意识（和业余爱好）影响。
Finally, consider putting concrete limits on how much fit can sway hiring. Many organizations tell interviewers what to look for but provide little guidance about how to weigh these different qualities. Left to their own devices, interviewers often define merit in their own image.
最后，考虑一下如何明确限制契合度对雇用决定的影响。很多公司告诉面试官要寻找有什么样特质的人，但却几乎没有提供任何指导来衡量这些不同特质。一旦留给面试官自己去决定，他们经常根据自己的判断来对优点进行界定。