It was one of his first trips abroad, maybe even the first. Wang Moheng was just shy of his second birthday. His parents took him and two of his grandparents to the tropics of Malaysia, with its sunshine and moist air and blue skies.
这是他最初几次出国旅行中的一次，甚至可能就是他的第一次出国旅行。王墨恒马上就要迎来两岁的生日，他的父母便带着他和他的姥姥姥爷前往马来西亚的热带地区，享受那里的明媚阳光、湿润空气和万里晴空。
“They said to other parents at our day care center, ‘We’re getting away from the bad air in Beijing for a while,’ ” said Xie Yongzhen, whose son has been a playmate of Moheng’s.
“他们在托儿所对其他家长说，‘我们马上就可以暂时摆脱北京的糟糕空气了，’”谢永珍（音译）说。她的儿子常和墨恒一起玩。
Other families from the center had joined them on vacation, she said, but returned on different flights. They bid farewell to Moheng’s family in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, with the words, “See you in smoggy Beijing.”
她说，托儿所还有其他几家人和他们一起去度假，但那些家庭都乘其他航班回来了。他们在马来西亚首都吉隆坡和墨恒一家人分了手，当时还说，“在雾霾笼罩的北京见。”
The family of five was among 239 passengers and crew members to have vanished with Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370, which left Kuala Lumpur early Saturday for Beijing but never arrived. People from at least 13 countries were aboard the Boeing 777-200 jet, with the 153 Chinese passengers by far the most numerous. Of those from China, Moheng was the youngest.
马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH370航班连同239名乘客及机组成员一起消失了，这个五口之家也在其中。该航班于周六凌晨从吉隆坡起飞前往北京，但却一直没有抵达目的地。这架波音(Boeing)777-200飞机上的乘客至少来自13个国家，其中包括153名中国乘客，中国乘客是迄今所知规模最大的乘客群体。而在来自中国的乘客中，墨恒是年纪最小的一个。
The passengers bound for China represented a vivid cross-section of a nation in its fourth decade of a dizzying economic transformation: artists and corporate salespeople, foreign businesspeople and employees of technology firms. Many, like the Wang family, had been on holiday savoring the turquoise waters and white-sand beaches of Southeast Asia, a popular destination for Chinese.
对一个四十年间经济转型令人眼花缭乱的国家而言，飞往中国的机上乘客是一个形象生动的截面：艺术家和企业销售人员，外国商人和科技公司雇员。包括王家在内的许多人都是在欣赏了东南亚的碧蓝大海和雪白沙滩之后度假归来。东南亚是很受中国人欢迎的旅游目的地。
There was a Canadian couple living in Beijing, the wife originally from China, returning from a vacation in Vietnam they had taken without their two young sons, who were being watched by a grandmother at home. The plane also carried a few large groups, including more than 20 painters and calligraphers who had been honored at an exhibition in Malaysia, and Chinese employees of an American semiconductor company traveling to China with Malaysian colleagues for a work meeting.
乘客中还有一对居住在北京的加拿大夫妇。夫妇俩是从越南度假返回北京，妻子原籍中国。他们把两个年幼的儿子留在家里，由祖母照顾。飞机上还有一些人数比较多的团体，其中包括20多名在马来西亚参加了展出的画家和书法家，以及美国一家半导体公司的中国雇员。这些中国雇员是和马来西亚的同事一起去中国开一个工作会议。
There were transients, people intending to just pass through Beijing. One was Paul Weeks, 39, a New Zealand engineer living in Perth, Australia, with his wife and two sons, one born just last year. He had been en route to Mongolia for an assignment with a mining and construction company.
还有一些人只是路过中国，只打算在北京转机。39岁的新西兰工程师保罗·威克斯(Paul Weeks)便是其中之一。他和妻子及两个儿子生活在澳大利亚的珀斯，小儿子去年才出生。他接受了一家矿业和建筑公司的委托，本来打算前往蒙古。
“I’m taking it minute by minute,” his wife, Danica Weeks, told reporters in Perth. “I can’t think beyond the minute. I’ve got two young kids, and I have a 3-year-old asking, ‘When is Daddy going to Skype?’ ”
“我现在度日如年，”在珀斯，他的妻子达妮卡·威克斯(Danica Weeks)对记者说，“我没力气想将来的事情。我有两个年幼的小孩，3岁的那个一直在问，‘爸爸什么时候上Skype？’”
Relatives and friends of many of the Chinese passengers waited all of Sunday in a hotel room in Beijing. Over and over, they asked Malaysia Airlines employees what had happened to their loved ones, only to get the same answer: No one knows.
许多中国乘客的亲友周日一整天都在北京一家酒店的房间里等消息。他们一遍又一遍地问马航的工作人员，他们的亲人到底发生了什么事情，得到的答案却始终如一：谁都不知道。
A manager at Malaysia Airlines, Ignatius Ong, told reporters that 93 airline employees had arrived in Beijing to give assistance to the families. He said the airline would soon fly some of the family members to Malaysia. Many of the relatives had no passports, and by Sunday evening, they were filling out passport applications.
马航的管理人员伊格内修斯·翁(Ignatius Ong)告诉记者，公司的93名员工已经抵达北京，为相关家庭提供帮助。他说，公司将尽快安排部分亲属飞往马来西亚。许多亲属没有护照，周日晚间都还在填写护照申报材料。
The frustration built. One man in the hotel showed a petition with more than 100 signatures to reporters, saying they were from relatives and friends who demanded more information. “We have been pushed to the point of helplessness by Malaysia Airlines,” he said.
人们越来越失望。在酒店里，一名男子给记者展示了一封有100多个签名的请愿信，说那些签名都来自要求公布更多信息的亲友。“我们被马来西亚航空公司逼到了绝望的地步，”他说。
People dealt with their anxiety in different ways. Ms. Xie, who knew young Moheng from the day care, said she was going to the Lama Temple in the city center to burn incense sticks and pray for him and his family. “Everyone is in deep shock and praying for a miracle,” she said.
人们用不同的方式化解焦虑。在托儿所里认识小墨恒的谢女士说，她要到市中心的雍和宫烧香，为墨恒和他的家人祈福。她说，“每个人都震惊不已，都在祈祷奇迹的发生。”
Moheng’s family was among the growing number of Chinese who are cosmopolitan in experience and outlook, and who can indulge in the occasional exotic vacation. Wang Rui, the toddler’s father, worked in the Beijing office of Boston Consulting Group, an American company, and went by Rory. He was a graduate of the accounting program at Tsinghua University in Beijing and of the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. The boy’s mother, Jiao Weiwei, worked at a Chinese software company. Her parents were also on the plane.
越来越多的中国人拥有了国际化的经历和眼界，墨恒的家人也在其中，这些中国人对偶尔为之的海外假期沉迷不已。墨恒的父亲王睿在美国公司波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)北京分部工作。他是北京清华大学财会专业及美国西北大学凯洛格商学院(Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University)的毕业生。墨恒的母亲焦微微在一家中国软件公司工作，她的父母也在飞机上。
“I really can’t believe this,” one of the family’s neighbors, Hao Jingyu, wrote on her microblog. “As long as there is a silver lining of hope, we’ll keep praying.”
这家人的邻居郝婧妤在微博上写道，“我真的不相信。邻居们还在等待最终的消息，只要有一线希望，都还在祈福保佑。”
Among the many others in Beijing waiting for word were the wife and 10-year-old daughter of Maimaitijiang Abula, an ethnic Uighur painter and art teacher from the desert oasis town of Kashgar. The family had been living in Beijing for the past two years while Mr. Abula, 35, studied here at the Chinese Academy of Oil Painting. He was traveling in the group of more than 20 Chinese calligraphers and painters honored at an exhibition at the Malaysian Oriental Arts Center in Kuala Lumpur.
在北京等待消息的许多亲属中有两个人，她们是买买提江•阿布拉的妻子和十岁的女儿，买买提江是一名维吾尔族画家兼艺术教师，来自沙漠中的绿洲小城喀什。过去两年里，35岁的买买提江一直在位于北京的中国油画院学习，他的家人也随他在北京生活。登机前，他正随同由20多名中国书法家和画家组成的团队，应邀参加在吉隆坡马来西亚东方艺术中心举行的展览。
“She just can’t accept it,” a friend, Ku’erbanjiang Saimaiti, said on Sunday of Mr. Abula’s wife. “There’s no information at all at this moment.”
周日，这家人的朋友库尔班江·赛买提在提到买买提江的妻子时说道，“她根本无法接受这件事。眼下什么消息都没有。”
Mr. Abula was proud of his hometown, in the far west, and had done interpretation there for a state television film crew led by Mr. Saimaiti when they were shooting a documentary in 2010. Mr. Abula had joined the Chinese Communist Party and was often teased for it by friends. But he insisted he did not want to become an official, Mr. Saimaiti said, and he was “a responsible and kind artist.”
买买提江为自己地处偏远西部的家乡自豪，2010年，库尔班江领着一个官方电视摄制组到那里拍摄一部纪录片，他充任了摄制组在当地的翻译。买买提江加入了中国共产党，因此还常常被朋友们取笑。不过他坚称，他不想做官，库尔班江说，他是一名“负责任、善良的艺术家”。
Mr. Abula had just won an award in Malaysia and posted a photograph of it online.
买买提江刚刚在马来西亚获奖，还把一张获奖照片贴到了网上。
In an upscale apartment compound in Beijing called Central Park, neighbors of Muktesh Mukherjee and Xiaomo Bai, the Canadian couple, wondered what might have befallen them on the flight. Ms. Bai, 37, was originally from China and a graduate of Beijing Foreign Studies University. Mr. Mukherjee, 42, worked for Xcoal Energy & Resources, based in Pennsylvania. They took frequent beach vacations in Southeast Asia, often with their two sons. The younger one, Miles, turns 3 in May.
在北京一栋名为新城国际的高档公寓里，加拿大籍夫妇穆克泰什·慕克吉(Muktesh Mukherje)和白小莫(Xiaomo Bai，音译)的邻居猜测着他们在飞行中遇到了什么情况。37岁的白小莫原籍中国，是北京外国语大学的毕业生。42岁的慕克吉供职于总部位于宾夕法尼亚州的Xcoal能源和资源公司(Xcoal Energy & Resources)。他们经常到东南亚地区的海滩度假，往往会带上两个儿子。他们的小儿子迈尔斯(Miles)今年5月满三周岁。
They also took romantic holidays without the children. In 2012, they flew to Rome and Greece to celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary. And this month, they had gone, just the two of them, to Vietnam on a beach getaway. That was how they ended up on Flight MH370.
他们也享受过一些不拖家带口的浪漫假期。2012年，他们飞到罗马和希腊，庆贺十周年结婚纪念日。这个月，他们飞到了越南的海滨度假胜地，这一次只有他们两个人。这就是他们最终搭上MH370的原因。
“They were doting parents with two lovely boys,” said Paul Haenle, who lives in their building.
和这对夫妇同住一栋楼的保罗·亨勒(Paul Haenle)说，“他们是一对疼爱孩子的父母，有两个可爱的儿子。”
Ms. Bai’s Facebook page has photographs of the boys playing in the snow outside their apartment last month. She wrote, “The first snowfall of this winter!!!” The boys lie outside smiling. They are making snow angels.
白小莫在Facebook页面上展示了她的儿子上个月在公寓外玩雪的照片。她写道，“这是今冬的第一场雪！！！”照片里的两个男孩躺在室外，面带微笑。他们在堆雪人。