Pulling up a seat at your favorite coffee shop may be the most efficient way to write a paper or finish a work project. But now a new Web site lets you bring the coffee shop to your cubicle.
在你喜欢的咖啡馆里坐一坐，也许你就能高效地完成一篇论文或工作计划书。而现在，一个新的网站将咖啡馆搬进了你的格子间。
The site, called Coffitivity, was inspired by recent research showing that the whoosh of espresso machines and caffeinated chatter typical of most coffee shops creates just the right level of background noise to stimulate creativity. The Web site, which is free, plays an ambient coffee shop soundtrack that, according to researchers, helps people concentrate.
这个网站名叫Coffitivity，它的灵感源自近期一份有关研究，研究显示大部分咖啡馆里司空见惯的蒸汽咖啡机嘶嘶声和受咖啡因刺激进行的漫谈，所产生的环境噪音不多不少，刚刚好能刺激人们的创造力。这家免费网站会播放一段咖啡馆中的环境噪音，而据研究人员称，这能帮助人们集中注意力。
In a series of experiments that looked at the effects of noise on creative thinking, researchers at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign had participants brainstorm ideas for new products while they were exposed to varying levels of background noise. Their results, published in The Journal of Consumer Research, found that a level of ambient noise typical of a bustling coffee shop or a television playing in a living room, about 70 decibels, enhanced performance compared with the relative quiet of 50 decibels.
伊利诺伊大学厄本那—香槟分校(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)的研究人员进行了一系列旨在研究噪音对创意思维作用的研究，暴露在不同程度环境噪音的参试者要对新产品进行头脑风暴。这项发表在《消费者研究学刊》(The Journal of Consumer Research)的研究发现，在熙熙攘攘的咖啡馆或播放电视的客厅中的环境噪音约为70分贝，相比相对安静的50分贝噪音，它更能提升人们的表现。
A higher level of noise, however, about 85 decibels, roughly the noise level generated by a blender or a garbage disposal, was too distracting, the researchers found.
不过，研究人员发现，如果噪音程度更高，达到了85分贝，大致相当于搅拌器或垃圾处理器发出的噪音级别，就太让人分心了。
Ravi Mehta, an assistant professor of business administration at the university who led the research, said that extreme quiet tends to sharpen your focus, which can prevent you from thinking in the abstract.
领导该项试验的是该校工商管理学助理教授拉维·米塔(Ravi Mehta)，他说，极其静谧的环境能令你全神贯注，而这也会妨碍你进行抽象思考。
“This is why if you’re too focused on a problem and you’re not able to solve it,” Dr. Mehta said, “you leave it for some time and then come back to it and you get the solution.”
“正因为如此，如果你一头扎在某个问题上，会发现解决不了，”米塔博士说，“你把这个问题搁些时日，等到重新着手时，问题就能迎刃而解了。”
But moderate levels can distract people just enough so that they think more broadly. “It helps you think outside the box,” he said.
而适度的噪音，刚好可以让人们稍微分一点心，因此思考问题的范围更广。“它有助于你跳出固有的思维模式，”米塔博士说。
The benefits of moderate noise, however, apply only to creative tasks. Projects that require paying close attention to detail, like proofreading a paper or doing your taxes, Dr. Mehta said, are performed better in quiet environments.
不过，适度噪音的益处只对创意性任务适用。米塔说，那些需要密切注意细节的项目，比如校对论文或报税，在安静的环境中可以做得更好。
In other studies, he and his colleagues have found that exposure to certain colors can play a role as well. Switching the color of your computer’s background screen to blue enhances performance on creative tasks, for example, while making it red helps with detail-oriented tasks. Large, open rooms with high ceilings may also promote creative thinking, they found.
他和他的同事们还进行了别的试验，结果发现特定的色彩同样能起作用。比方说，将你的电脑显示屏背景色调成蓝色，能增强进行创意性任务的表现，而调成红色则有助于完成以细节为重的任务。他们还发现，宽敞空旷、有着高高的天花板的房间也许同样有助于创造性思维。
The creators of the Coffitivity site struck upon their idea after brainstorming on an unrelated start-up in the Richmond, Va., area.
Coffitivity网站的创始人是在弗吉尼亚州里士满地区构思一个初创项目时，有了做这个网站的念头，而这两个项目并无关联。
“We had been in and out of coffee shops, and we were getting really good work done,” said ACe Callwood, a founder of the site and the coordinator for entrepreneurship at the Virginia Commonwealth University business school.
“当时我们常常去咖啡馆，在那儿工作的成效非常好，”网站创始人之一、弗吉尼亚联邦大学(Virginia Commonwealth University)商学院的创业协调员艾斯·考尔伍德(ACe Callwood)说。
One member of the team, Justin Kauszler, noticed that when he returned to his regular work space, in a subdued and sterile office, his productivity took a nose-dive. When Mr. Kauszler’s boss shot down his request to leave the office and work from a coffee shop, he and his colleagues decided that they would bring their favorite coffeehouses to their computers.
团队成员之一贾斯汀·考兹勒(Justin Kauszler)注意到，每当他回到自己平时的工作场所——一间阴郁、单调的办公室时，他的创造力就急转直下。他跟老板请求能离开办公室，去咖啡馆工作，这个要求被拒绝了，于是，他和同事们决定把最喜欢的咖啡馆搬到电脑前面。
With some borrowed audio equipment in hand, they eventually hit on a spot with the ideal noise level, a place called Harrison Street Cafe.
他们手持一些借来的录音器材，最终找到了一个噪音程度十分理想的地方，那里是“哈里逊街咖啡馆”(Harrison Street Cafe)。
“It had just the right mix of everything,” Mr. Callwood said. “You could get the coffee machine, and you had people talking and eating. It has two levels, and we got the vibe upstairs and downstairs.”
“它恰到好处地混合了各种声响，”考尔伍德说：“你能听到咖啡机的声音，听到人们交谈和吃东西的声音。这间咖啡馆有两层楼，我们录下了上下两层楼的声响。”
Coffitivity started on March 4, and that day it got about 120 page views. “I think our moms looked at it a hundred times,” Mr. Callwood joked.
Coffitivity在3月4日上线，当天取得了120次页面浏览数。“我猜，我们几个人的妈妈大概点了有上百次，”考尔伍德说。
Since then, traffic has “exploded,” he said. “Seoul, Korea, is our top user city. New York City is second, followed by London, L.A. and Chicago.”
自那以后，网站流量“剧增”，他说：“韩国首尔是贡献流量最多的城市。第二名的城市是纽约。接下来是伦敦、洛杉矶和芝加哥。”
Mr. Callwood and his colleagues at Coffitivity say they are now in the process of creating an app and adding new coffee shop soundtracks tailored to specific countries.
考尔伍德和他在Coffitivity的同事们说，他们正在开发应用程序，并且会根据不同的国家量身定做新的咖啡馆背景声。
“Australians apparently hate American accents,” he said. “We have Australians asking us for different audio sounds.
“澳大利亚人显然不喜欢美国口音，”他说，“有澳大利亚人请我们制作不同的声效音频。”
“We had a rabbi reach out and say, ‘Hey, there’s a Jewish learning center that has this very distinctive sound in Hebrew,’ and he asked if we could put that kind of audio on the site. We told him that if he could get us the audio, we’ll use it.”
“有一位拉比找到我们，说，‘嘿，有一家犹太学习中心，那里能听到非常独特的希伯来语声响，’他问我们是否能把这类音频放到网站上。我们告诉他，如果他能给我们弄来音频，我们会使用的。”