NATAL, Brazil — Victory, even in the group stage of the World Cup, can make Uruguayans feel like champions again.
巴西纳塔尔——这次胜利让乌拉圭人再次找到了冠军的感觉，尽管现在只是在小组赛阶段。
After the closing 10 minutes against Italy on Tuesday — 10 minutes in which all fans of the diminutive republic were on tenterhooks for a 1-0 victory — the cheers rang out. Renditions of “Soy Celeste ... Celeste Soy Yo!” (“I’m sky blue ... Sky blue, I am!”) were followed by the ubiquitous chants of winning the World Cup again (just like the first time, in 1930).
在周二晚对阵意大利队的最后十分钟里，欢呼声响彻全场，这个小小共和国的所有球迷都在焦虑不安地等待着1-0的胜利。“Soy Celeste ... Celeste Soy Yo!”（意为“我是天蓝色......天蓝色就是我！”）的歌声之后，全场高喊起再夺世界杯冠军的口号（就像1930年初次夺冠那样）。
There was much swinging of the national shirt.
很多人在挥舞乌拉圭队的球衫。
Uruguayans have been here before. It seems to be their preferred state, winning against the odds. La garra charrúa (the Charrúa claw) remains alive and well. That spirit of the Uruguayan national team — Los Charrúas — allows it to snatch victory in the face of overwhelming defeat. (Though it seems disingenuous to be identified with those seminomadic Charrúa Indians, the last of whom were betrayed and vanquished in 1832, leaving the country without any semblance of an indigenous culture.)
乌拉圭人以前到过这里。这似乎是他们偏爱的状态，在不被看好时获胜。La garra charrúa（查鲁亚利爪）仍然虎虎生风。乌拉圭国家队的查鲁亚精神，让这支刚遭到惨败的球队夺取了胜利。（不过，在半游牧民族查鲁亚印第安人身上找身份认同似乎是装糊涂，最后一批查鲁亚人已于1832年被背叛和击败，这个国家已经找不到丝毫土著文化的痕迹）。
On the back of its fourth-place finish at the last World Cup and the 2011 Copa América title, Uruguay entered this tournament as favorites to win its group. This did not sit well with the culture of the team, which had ceded the underdog label to Costa Rica. After its 3-1 defeat against the Ticos, Uruguay looked dead and buried. But then soccer is made for escapes such as these.
乌拉圭队在上届世界杯赛排名第四，并获得了2011年的美洲杯(Copa América)冠军，紧跟着就进入了本届世界杯，成为该组被看好的球队。这种身份和球队的文化不太吻合，它已把弱队的标签让给了哥斯达黎加队。在和哥斯达黎加人的对决中，乌拉圭以1-3的比分落败，看上去已经身陷绝境，无力回天。然而，足球就是为这类死里逃生的奇迹量身打造的运动。
If a nation is going to make a habit out of such unlikely maneuvers, it needs its own Houdini. In the brilliant but mercurial Luis Suárez, Uruguay has one. The man from Salto is undoubtedly one of the most talented players the country has produced. But what helps set him apart from other, equally talented players who have pulled on Uruguay’s sky-blue shirt is his winning mentality.
如果一个民族想一次又一次地实现这种不可思议的曲折，那它必须得有自己的胡迪尼(Houdini)。乌拉圭队确有这样一员大将，他就是实力出众但却捉摸不定的路易斯·苏亚雷斯(Luis Suárez)。毫无疑问，这个来自萨尔托的男人是乌拉圭最有天赋的球员之一。但是，让他从同样身穿乌拉圭天蓝色球衣的天才球员中脱颖而出的，是他的必胜信念。
“He leaves his life and soul on the soccer pitch,” said José Luis Villamil, 44, an engineer who made the trip from Montevideo to Natal. “He just wants to win.”
“他在用生命和灵魂踢球，”从蒙得维的亚来到纳塔尔的何塞·路易斯·比利亚米尔(José Luis Villamil)。“他只是想赢。” 44岁的比利亚米尔是一名工程师。
In England, where Suárez is adored by Liverpool fans, he remains a divisive figure. Why this player of the first rank cannot control himself during the cut and thrust of a soccer match is beyond the British. It goes against a sense of fair play.
在英国，苏亚雷斯受到利物浦球迷的追捧，但他仍然是一个备受争议的人物。英国人不能理解这名一流球员在这场激烈的足球比赛中为何不能控制自己。这违背了公平竞争的原则。
Suárez’s latest transgression — an apparent bite of Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini’s shoulder — is likely to enrage his detractors, and might result in his expulsion from the tournament. Of course, Suárez has a history in such matters. He has missed 17 matches as punishments for similar offenses. Moreover, the racism charge — he verbally abused Manchester United’s Patrice Evra in 2011 — has never been forgotten.
苏亚雷斯最新犯下的罪过——咬了意大利后卫乔吉奥·基耶利尼(Giorgio Chiellini)的肩部——可能会激怒诋毁他的人，或许会导致他遭到禁赛。当然，苏亚雷斯有过被禁赛的经历。他曾因为类似的犯规行为遭到处罚，缺席了17场比赛。除此之外，人们从未忘记他曾遭到种族歧视指控，他在2011年辱骂过曼彻斯特联队(Manchester United)的帕特里斯·埃弗拉(Patrice Evra)。
The question is why a player as talented and exciting as Suárez should react in such a way.
问题是，为何苏亚雷斯这样有天赋、激动人心的球员会做出这种反应。
Not that the incident cuts any ice with the Uruguayans in Natal. Few could see the incident at close range.
对于在纳塔尔的乌拉圭人来说，这件事没有什么影响。很少有人近距离看到了事情的经过。
“It doesn’t bother me, so long as he isn’t suspended,’ one Montevidean said. Are there any reservations from a sportsmanship perspective? The look is quizzical as if one were directing an insult. “Did you see what the Italians did to us and what they’ve done in the past?” he said. “This isn’t a game for little girls.”
一名蒙得维的亚人说，“我不在意，只要他不被停赛就行。”从体育道德的角度，有什么保留意见吗？他的表情显得很诧异，仿佛受到了侮辱。“你看到意大利人对我们做了什么吗，看到他们过去做了什么吗？”他说，“这不是小女孩玩的游戏。”
There is a certain defensiveness with many fans when asked about Suárez’s unseemly tendencies. They seem to take the same obdurate stance as chided children. The usual conspiracy theories emerge, the most fantastic of which is that the puncture marks visible in images of Chiellini’s shoulder were Photoshopped. There is an unwillingness to take responsibility. Fans have learned the art of blame transference.
在被问到有关苏亚雷斯不当之举的问题时，许多球迷都在一定程度上表现得心存戒备。他们的态度就好像挨了批评后不服气的孩子一样。一些常见的阴谋论浮出水面，其中最疯狂的一个是，基耶利尼肩膀上的明显牙印是用修图软件弄上去的。人们都不情愿承担责任。球迷们都掌握了推卸责任的艺术。
For Uruguayans at home and abroad Suárez remains a hero, a caudillo-like (chieflike) figure. Uruguay remains obsessed with his reputation in Europe, especially in Britain. After all, his reputation has an effect on his country’s image abroad more than anyone else’s.
对于国内外的乌拉圭人来说，苏亚雷斯仍然是一个英雄，一个考迪罗式（如同首领）的人物。乌拉圭人仍然痴迷于他在欧洲（尤其是在英国）的声望。毕竟，他的名气对乌拉圭海外形象的影响要大于任何其他人。
Suárez’s sacrifice for his country has not been forgotten. The infamous “save” against Ghana in the last World Cup — when he stopped a certain goal with his hand — is seen as an act of love for his country. His recovery from a knee operation allowed him to lead Uruguay to victory last week over the country of his most virulent critics, England. His second goal in that game, of magnificent power, had him carry much of his weight on his operated leg.
苏亚雷斯为国家所做的牺牲也没有被忘却。在上届世界杯对阵加纳队的比赛中，他用手挡下了一个进球，人们认为，他这个臭名昭著的“扑救”之举是出于对国家的爱。上周，由于从膝盖手术中恢复过来，他带领乌拉圭队战胜了英格兰——他最严厉的批评者的祖国。他在那场比赛中的第二个进球发力很猛，致使很大一部分体重都落在了手术的腿上。
Uruguay has now perfected the trait of the underdog: losing against the worst and winning against the best. And Suárez epitomizes the country’s fighting spirit; a trait with which he has imbued the whole team.
乌拉圭如今已经完全符合了不被看好的球队的那个共同点：输过最差的队，赢过最强的队。苏亚雷斯就是这个国家队战斗精神的缩影；他把这个特质灌输给了全队。
Uruguay has finally come out fighting, and it suits them. Now they might have to continue the fight without their caudillo.
乌拉圭最终像战士一样冲了上去，这才是他们的风格。不过现在，他们可能得在失去首领的情况下继续战斗了。