Over the past few weeks, it seemed like Neiman Marcus could not make up its mind about whether to sell Ivanka Trump’s fine jewelry. The brand’s baubles disappeared, reappeared and then disappeared again from the department store’s website.
过去的几周里，对于是否销售伊万卡·特朗普品牌的珠宝首饰，尼曼(Neiman Marcus)百货公司好像一直下不了决心。在这家百货公司的网站上，该品牌的商品先是消失，然后重新出现，之后又再次消失了。
But now, Neiman Marcus won’t have much of a choice.
但是现在，尼曼也没有太多选择了。
Trump’s brand has discontinued its line of high-end bracelets, necklaces and rings, the company confirmed Monday. Instead, it will focus on more affordable fashion jewelry, according to Abigail Klem, the president of Trump’s brand.
伊万卡的公司周一证实，该品牌不再继续经营高端的手镯、项链和戒指产品线。品牌总裁阿比盖尔·克莱姆(Abigail Klem)说，他们将把重点更多地集中在价格亲民的时尚珠宝上。
In a statement, Klem attributed the decision to the company’s “commitment to offering solution-oriented products at accessible price points.” She did not mention Neiman Marcus, or any of the other retailers that had recently backed away from carrying Trump’s increasingly politicized products.
克莱姆在一份声明中表示，这么做是因为该公司“致力于以平易近人的价格，提供以解决方案为导向的产品”。伊万卡的产品日益被政治化，克莱姆没提尼曼，也没有提及近期其他下架伊万卡产品的零售商。
The decision to discontinue Trump’s fine jewelry line was reported Friday by Vanity Fair.
取消伊万卡高级珠宝产品线的决定是上周五由《名利场》报道的。
Trump’s shoes, handbags and clothing lines have become targets for both supporters and detractors of her father, President Donald Trump, in his political rise to the White House.
伊万卡的父亲唐纳德·特朗普在政坛崛起、入主白宫，他的支持者把伊万卡的鞋子、手袋和服装产品线视为支持目标，反对者则视之为抵制目标。
Many shoppers have rallied behind Grab Your Wallet, a largely grass-roots movement to boycott companies associated with the Trump name. Some companies, like Nordstrom and T.J. Maxx, have pulled back from promoting Ivanka Trump’s brand.
很多消费者参加了以草根阶层为主的“看牢你的钱包”(Grab Your Wallet)运动，抵制与特朗普家族有往来的公司。一些公司已经放弃了推广伊万卡的品牌，比如诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)和T.J.Maxx。
Representatives for Ivanka Trump have said that overall sales of her products increased 21 percent in 2016 compared with 2015. In a statement, Klem said that February this year saw some of the “best performing weeks in the history of the brand.”
伊万卡·特朗普的代表曾经说，2016年她的产品的总销售额比2015年增加了21%。在一份声明中，克莱姆说，今年2月的数周里，“该品牌创下了其有史以来最好的业绩之一”。
Ivanka Trump licenses her name to various partners who manufacture her products. The largest share of her revenue comes from sales of her clothing, followed by shoes and handbags. Fine jewelry has always made up a small percentage of her overall business, according to company documents and interviews with former employees.
伊万卡·特朗普向不同的合作伙伴提供自己名字的授权，制造这个品牌的产品。衣服在她的营收中所占的份额最大，其次是鞋子和手袋产品。根据该公司的文件，以及对前员工的采访，在她的全部业务中，高级珠宝所占的份额一直很小。
Unlike her diamond-encrusted fine jewelry, items in the fashion jewelry line are aimed at a mass-market audience, with many items priced at less than $100.
和镶钻的高级珠宝不同，时尚珠宝产品面向的是大众市场，很多产品价格不到100美元（约合人民币700元）。
The company projected to make about $300,000 in royalty fees in 2016, according to company documents from 2014 that were obtained by The New York Times. Sales were expected to reach about $7.5 million last year.
《纽约时报》获得了该公司2014年的文件，称该公司预计在2016年获得约30万美元的授权费用。预计该公司2016年的销售额达到750万美元左右。