The first Japanese film character to appear in Chinese theaters since tensions increased three years ago between China and Japan over disputed islands is a chubby blue cat.
自从中国与日本就有争议岛屿的争端三年前加剧以来，首次出现在中国影院的日本电影角色是一个胖乎乎的蓝猫。
The character, Doraemon, is the star of a Japanese manga series first published in 1969, which was subsequently adapted into a long-running anime television series and 36 films. “Stand by Me Doraemon,” the first in the cinematic franchise made with computer-generated 3-D imagery, has become the highest-grossing Japanese movie in China since its release on Thursday. In its first four days, it took in 237 million renminbi, or $38 million, $14.2 million of that on Sunday alone. That toppled the single-day box-office record for an animated feature of $10.8 million, set by “Kung Fu Panda 2” four years ago.
这个名为“哆啦A梦”的角色是1969年首次发表的一个日本漫画系列的明星，漫画系列后来被改编成一个长期上映的电视连续剧动画片及36部电影。该系列中首次用计算机生成的三维图像制作的影片《哆啦A梦·伴我同行》自从上周四上映以来，已成为中国票房最高的日本电影。在公映的头四天里，票房总收入为2.37亿元人民币，相当于3800万美元，仅周日一天的收入就高达1420万美元，破了动画片《功夫熊猫2》四年前创下的单日1080万美元的票房纪录。
The Doraemon movie is the first Japanese film to be shown in Chinese theaters since an “Ultraman” movie in July 2012. China, which sets an annual quota on foreign film imports, did not admit any Japanese movies after Japan nationalized a group of disputed islands, known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan, in the East China Sea in September 2012. Last September, three newspapers in Sichuan Province attacked Doraemon for being a tool of Japan’s “cultural invasion.”
电影《哆啦A梦》是自2012年7月《奥特曼》发行以来，首部在中国影院上映的日本电影，中国对外国电影进口有年度配额，自从日本在2012年9月将东海里一群有争议的岛屿（中国称之为钓鱼岛，日本称之为尖阁诸岛）国有化后，中国一直没有准许日本电影进口。去年9月，四川省的三家报纸攻击《哆啦A梦》是日本“文化入侵”的工具。
The screenings of “Stand By Me Doraemon” appear to signal a slight thaw in relations between Beijing and Tokyo.
《哆啦A梦·伴我同行》的上映看来是北京与东京关系略微回暖的信号。
The film’s release came days after President Xi Jinping of China met with Toshihiro Nikai, a veteran Japanese lawmaker from the governing Liberal Democratic Party who was leading a 3,000-person delegation to China.
影片的发行是在中国国家主席习近平会见了二阶俊博之后，二阶俊博是来自执政的自民党的一位资深国会议员，他正带领一个3000人的代表团在中国访问。
At their meeting in Beijing, where Mr. Nikai delivered a personal letter from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Mr. Xi said “the future of Sino-Japan relations are in the hands of the people of the two countries,” and warned against distortions of history. China has long accused Japan of failing to atone for atrocities committed during World War II.
在北京见面时，二阶俊博向习近平转交了首相安倍晋三的亲笔信，习近平说，“中日关系前途掌握在两国人民手里”，并警告不要歪曲历史。中国长期以来一直指责日本未能对其在二战期间犯下的暴行赎罪。
“Stand By Me Doraemon” features Nobita, a 10-year-old boy who is struggling with schoolwork and classroom bullies. His great-grandson travels back in time from the 22nd century with the robot cat Doraemon, whose mission is to secure Nobita a better future.
《哆啦A梦·伴我同行》中的10岁男孩大雄要对付学校的作业和课堂恶霸。他的曾孙与机器人哆啦A梦用时光机从22世纪回到80年前，他们的任务是确保大雄有一个更美好的未来。
“I went to see the movie because it was the first time a Doraemon movie was made 3-D,” said Chi Jiapeng, a 21-year-old software engineering student and Doraemon fan in Beijing. “That felt pretty fresh.”
“我去看了这部电影，因为这是哆啦A梦第一次被制成3D，”北京的一位21岁的软件工程专业学生、哆啦A梦粉丝迟家鹏(Chi Jiapeng，音译)说。“三维的感觉很新鲜。”
Many parents brought their children to see the film in advance of the Children’s Day holiday on Monday, perhaps drawing on their own Doraemon memories. The blue cat has amassed an enormous number of Chinese fans since the introduction of the anime series in China in 1991.
许多家长在周一的儿童节假日前带他们的孩子看了这部电影，他们也许还带着自己对哆啦A梦的记忆。自从该动画系列于1991年在中国推出以来，这只蓝猫已赢得了巨大数量的中国粉丝。
“An old classmate and I took the kids to see Doraemon,” one commenter wrote on Sina Weibo. “I was in tears during the movie.”
“我和一位老同学一起带着孩子看了哆啦A梦，”新浪微博上一位评论者写道。“看电影时我流泪了。”
“There is no time machine in real life,” another lamented.
“现实生活中没有时光机，”另一位评论者感叹说。
But not all fans were pleased with the plot.
但并非所有的粉丝都喜欢影片的情节。
“I was pretty disappointed,” said Mr. Chi, the student. “The movie focused too much on the love story between Nobita and Shizuka” — Nobita’s future wife — “instead of Doraemon’s signature stories, which are full of imagination.”
“我颇为失望，”姓迟的学生说。“影片过多地讲述了大雄和静香的爱情故事”——静香是大雄未来的妻子——“而不是哆啦A梦的特征鲜明的故事，那些故事的想象力很丰富。”