Cafeteria workers at Harvard, who have been on strike for nearly three weeks in an effort to avoid an increase in their health care costs and to earn higher salaries, could return to work this week after a tentative agreement was reached with the university, a union president said.
一名工会主席称，为了避免支付更多医保费用、谋求更高工资而罢工将近三周的哈佛大学(Harvard)食堂员工，可能会在与校方达成初步协议后，于本周重返工作岗位。
Brian Lang, the president of Unite Here Local 26, which represents about 750 cafeteria workers, confirmed that terms had been reached early Tuesday morning that satisfied the workers’ demands.
“本地26团结起来”(Unite Here Local 26)是代表大约750名食堂员工的工会组织，其主席布赖恩·朗(Brian Lang)确认，双方已于周二早晨就可以满足食堂员工要求的条款达成了一致。
Mediators helped work out the agreement between a union subcommittee and the university. On Tuesday, it would be reviewed and voted on by the full bargaining committee. It would then be brought before the entire union membership on Wednesday, and those on strike could return to work as soon as Thursday.
在调停者的协助下，该工会下属的一个委员会与哈佛大学达成了协议。周二，谈判委员会全体成员将对协议内容进行审议和投票表决。随后，协议会在周三提交给工会全体成员，罢工者最快可能于周四重返工作岗位。
Mr. Lang said he was confident the committee would ratify the deal. “We have accomplished all of the goals that we set out in this agreement,” he said.
朗说，他相信委员会将批准该协议。“在这项协议中，我们实现了此前设定的所有目标，”他说道。
The union had said it was striking over health care costs and pushing for a raise in workers’ wages, from an average of $30,000 annually to at least $35,000. Mr. Lang said those aims had been met.
该工会曾表示，组织这次罢工的目的是反对增加医保费用，并力争把食堂员工的平均工资从每年3万美元上涨到至少3.5万美元。朗说这些目标已经达成。
Tania deLuzuriaga, a spokeswoman for the university, confirmed that there was a tentative agreement with the union. She later forwarded a statement from Harvard’s executive vice president, Katie Lapp, which confirmed that Tuesday’s deal had addressed the issues of health care and wages.
哈佛大学发言人坦尼亚·德鲁祖里亚加(Tania deLuzuriaga)证实，校方和工会达成了初步协议。她随后转发了来自常务副校长凯蒂·拉普(Katie Lapp)的一份声明，该声明确认周二的协议已经解决了医保和工资问题。
Mr. Lang said that if the union voted to accept the deal, the strike would end and the employees would return to work Thursday. He said that 95 percent of the union’s members had participated through the duration of the strike and that they had been joined by a coalition of students, faculty and alumni.
朗说，如果工会经投票表决接受这项协议，罢工便会结束，食堂员工将于周四回去上班。他说95%的工会成员在罢工期间参与了进来，一些支持他们的学生、教职员工和校友也加入了他们的队伍。
“This started out as a group of the lowest-paid workers on the richest university deciding to take a stand for themselves and their families,” he said. “In this battle, the side that was fighting for a more humane approach won out.”
“一开始，是在这所最富有的大学里工作的一群收入最低的员工，决定为自己和家人的利益亮明立场，”他说。“在这场战斗中，为争取更为人道的解决方案而战的一方取得了胜利。”
In a testament to the workers’ determination, some who were not aware that a deal had been struck braved a chilly October morning to keep the strike going. Karyn Regal, a reporter for WBZ News Radio in Boston, reported that some had returned to protest with their picket signs at about 7:45 a.m. Tuesday.
有一个场景可以证明食堂员工的决心有多大：一些不知道协议已经达成的人，在十月寒冷的清晨继续参加罢工活动。据波士顿WBZ新闻广播电台(WBZ News Radio)的记者卡林·雷加尔(Karyn Regal)报道，一些人手举标语牌，于周二早上7点45分左右重返抗议活动现场。