Harvard University on Monday will announce the largest gift in its history, $350 million to the School of Public Health, from a group controlled by a wealthy Hong Kong family, one member of which earned graduate degrees at the university.
哈佛大学周一宣布有史以来收到的最大一笔捐款，由一个香港富裕家族控股的集团向公共卫生学院捐赠3.5亿美元，该家族的一位成员曾获得哈佛大学的研究生学位。
Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard’s president, said the gift by the Morningside Foundation, directed to a relatively small part of the university, would have a profound effect on the School of Public Health in Boston, giving it a stable financial base and the ability to give students more financial aid while expanding programs in several fields.
哈佛校长德鲁·吉尔平·福斯特(Drew Gilpin Faust)说，晨兴基金会针对大学的一个相对较小部门的捐款，将会对位于波士顿的公共卫生学院产生深远的影响，让其得到一个稳定的财政基础，能为学生提供更多的助学金，同时扩大几个领域的研究项目。
“It’s always been, as the whole field always is, under-resourced,” Dr. Faust said. “It’s overwhelmingly dependent on money from federal grants that are under threat.”
“这个学院以及整个公共卫生领域一直资源不足，”福斯特说。“学院严重依赖来自联邦政府的研究经费，这种经费正受到威胁。”
The foundation is led by two brothers, Ronnie and Gerald Chan, whose businesses include the Hang Lung Group, a major developer of real estate in Hong Kong and elsewhere in China, and the Morningside Group, a private equity and venture capital firm. The School of Public Health will be renamed for their father, T. H. Chan, who founded Hang Lung.
该基金会由两位兄弟、陈启宗(Ronnie Chan)和陈乐宗(Gerald Chan)领导，他们的实业包括在香港和中国其他地方开发房地产的大公司恒隆集团，以及私募股权和风险投资公司晨兴集团。公共卫生学院将改名用他们的父亲陈曾熙的名字T.H. Chan命名，陈曾熙创立了恒隆。
Only six larger donations have been made to an American institution of higher education, according to a list by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Those include a $400 million gift by Eli and Edythe Broad to the Broad Institute, a joint arm of Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Chans’ gift is the largest to Harvard alone.
据《高等教育纪事》(The Chronicle of Higher Education)的一个名单，美国高等院校收到的捐款中，只有6笔比这笔大。其中之一是伊利·和坎迪斯·布罗德(Eli and Edythe Broad)赠给布罗德研究所的4亿美元，该研究所由哈佛大学和麻省理工学院联合运行。陈氏兄弟的捐款是单独给哈佛的最大一笔。
In keeping with university practice, Harvard did not disclose the timing or form of the gift. Large donations are often spread over several years, and can consist of securities or real estate, in addition to cash.
沿用大学的一贯做法，哈佛没有透露捐款的时间及形式。大笔捐款往往分若干年支付，除现金外，还可以证券或不动产的形式。
Harvard officials said the gift would be used to address four broad areas: pandemics, which they define to include threats like obesity and cancer; harmful environments, ranging from pollution to violence; poverty and humanitarian crises; and failing health systems. Dr. Faust cited the Ebola outbreak in West Africa as an example of the need for such resources, hitting on three of those four areas — a rapidly spreading disease, abetted by poverty, that existing health systems cannot handle.
哈佛的官员说，这笔捐款将用于四大领域的研究：大流行病，公共卫生学院对其的定义包括诸如肥胖和癌症等威胁；从污染到暴力的有害环境；贫困和人道主义危机；以及失败的卫生体系。佛斯特以西非的埃博拉疫情为例，阐述对这些资源的需求，埃博拉疫情涉及上述四个领域中的三个：快速传播的疾病，又因贫困而加剧，让现有的医疗体系措手不及。
“We’re all realizing how important public health is as we become more global and diseases are shared across boundaries,” she said.
她说，“随着世界变得更加全球化以及疾病的跨国界传播，我们都意识到公共卫生是多么重要。”
Gerald Chan earned a master’s degree in medical radiological physics and a doctorate in radiation biology at the School of Public Health in the 1970s, worked as a research fellow at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and published several scientific papers. He has remained an active alumnus of the school, judging student competitions and giving speeches there, including the commencement address in 2012.
陈乐宗在20世纪70年代曾在公共卫生学院获得放射治疗物理学硕士学位，以及放射生物学博士学位，并曾在丹娜-法伯癌症研究所(Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)做研究员，发表过多篇科学论文。他一直是学院活跃的校友，为学生竞赛当评判，在学院发表演讲，包括在2012年的毕业典礼上。