Scientists at Harvard have confirmed that a 19th-century French treatise in the university’s libraries is almost surely bound in human skin, thus ending months of uncertainty and setting off a torrent of online Hannibal Lecter (get it?) jokes.
哈佛大学的科学家们证实，该校图书馆收藏的一本19世纪的法国著作几乎可以确定是使用人皮装帧的，从而结束了几个月来的争议，并引发了网上一连串的汉尼拔·莱克特（Hannibal Lecter，知道我的意思吧？）式笑话。
The book, Arsène Houssaye’s “Des destinées de l’ame” (On the Destiny of the Soul), came under renewed attention in April, after researchers concluded that another book at Harvard previously thought to be an example of anthropodermic bibliopegy — as the practice of binding books in human flesh is known — was in fact bound in sheepskin.
这本书是阿尔塞恩·乌萨伊(Arsène Houssaye)的《灵魂的命运》(Des destinées de l’ame)。4月，有研究者声称哈佛大学的另一本之前被认为是典型的用人皮装帧的书(anthropodermic bibliopegy )实际上是用绵羊皮装帧的，之后这本《灵魂的命运》也重新受到关注。
The Houssaye book, deposited at Harvard’s Houghton Library in 1934, contains a manuscript note claiming that the book was bound in skin taken from the back of a woman, since “a book about the human soul deserved to have a human covering.” Researchers confirmed the claim using several techniques, including peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF), which identifies proteins.
这本乌萨伊的书自1934年起被收藏在哈佛大学的霍顿图书馆，其中有手写的注释，说这本书是用从一个女人后背上取下的皮装帧而成，因为“一本讲述人类灵魂的书值得用人皮做封面。”为了确认这句话，研究者们使用了各种技术，包括肽质量指纹图谱(PMF)，用来确定蛋白质。
“The PMF from ‘Des destinées de l’ame’ matched the human reference, and clearly eliminated other common parchment sources, such as sheep, cattle and goat,” Bill Lane, the director of the Harvard Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics Resource Laboratory, and Daniel Kirby, of the Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies, told the Houghton Library Blog.
“《灵魂的命运》中的PMF检验结果与人类指标相吻合，清晰地排除了绵羊、小牛和山羊等其他常见的皮制纸张来源，”哈佛大学质谱和蛋白质源实验室主管比尔·莱恩(Bill Lane)以及斯特劳斯环保与技术研究中心的丹尼尔·科比(Daniel Kirby)通过霍顿图书馆的博客宣布。
That test could not rule out the possibility that the book was bound in the skin of a great ape or a gibbon. But researchers said that additional scientific analysis, along with information about the book’s provenance, made that extremely unlikely.
这项检验不能排除该书是用大型类人猿或长臂猿的皮装帧的。但研究者们认为，其他科学分析以及这本书的出处信息，令这种可能几乎不存在。
The practice of binding books in human skin, which dates at least to the 16th century, was once somewhat common, according to the Houghton blog. Criminal confessions were occasionally bound in the skin of the convicted, and individuals might request to be memorialized for family or lovers in the form of a book covered in a piece of themselves.
根据霍顿博物馆的博客，用人皮装帧书籍的行为至少可以追溯到16世纪，一度相当普遍。犯罪悔罪书有时是用犯罪者的皮装帧而成，普通人有时也会要求用自己的皮制成书籍封面，给家人或爱人作为留念。
If that practice seems grisly today, the more ordinary practice of binding books in animal skins has been problematic in some places, according to Leah Price, an English professor and book historian at Harvard who was not involved in the analysis.
哈佛大学的英语教授与书籍史学家利亚·普莱斯(Leah Price)说，如今这种事显得很可怕，不过用动物的皮装帧书籍这种较为普通的行为在有些地方也很成问题。他没有参与这本书是否由人皮制作的鉴定分析。