BOSTON — Baked into the curriculum of Harvard Business School is a course in entrepreneurship. A number of students and alumni of the school have started successful companies of their own.
波士顿——哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)的课程中有一门叫做企业家精神。学院有许多学生和校友都成功创办了自己的公司。
But on Sunday, a prominent start-up investor had a sobering message for the elite entrepreneurs of Harvard: You are at a disadvantage when it comes to attracting capital.
然而周日，一个著名的初创企业投资者向哈佛商学院的精英企业家们，传达了一条令人警醒的讯息：说到吸引投资，你们处于劣势。
“It’s really unfair to you guys, but I think you’re discriminated against now,” Chamath Palihapitiya, the founder of the venture capital fund Social+Capital Partnership, said at a conference organized by the business school’s venture capital and private equity club.
风险投资基金“社会+资本合伙公司”(Social+Capital Partnership)的创始人查马斯·帕里哈皮蒂亚(Chamath Palihapitiya)在这家商学院的风险资本和私募股权俱乐部组织的一场会议上说，“这对于你们来说真的不公平，但我认为你们现在受到了歧视。”
Referring to his colleagues in the venture capital industry, he added, “I would bet a large amount of money that the overwhelming majority of us would not look favorably on a company started by one of you.”
他谈到风险投资领域的同行时还说，“我敢赌一大笔钱，我们当中的绝大部分人，都不会看好你们当中任何人所创办的公司。”
It was a jarring message to punctuate a day premised on the prodigious talent contained in the elite halls of Harvard Business School. The distinguished guests — luminaries of finance, technology and the law, many of whom had received an M.B.A. from Harvard — often took for granted that the students there would soon hold positions of power.
在哈佛商学院的精英殿堂里，杰出的人才济济一堂，但帕里哈皮蒂亚的这番惊人言论，打破了一整天的气氛。那些尊贵的宾客——金融、科技和法律届的名流，其中许多都获得了哈佛的MBA——往往理所应当地认为，从这里走出的学生很快就会手握大权。
Mr. Palihapitiya, the closing keynote speaker, who was visiting Boston from Palo Alto, Calif., is not alone in expressing skepticism about the value of a business degree in the technology-heavy world of start-ups. In their quest to invest in “disruptive” technologies, many venture capitalists tend to look askance at entrepreneurs whose résumés are stacked with traditional markers of success.
帕里哈皮蒂亚从加州帕洛阿尔托赶到波士顿，是这场会议闭幕主旨演讲的发言人。如今的初创企业大多为科技公司，对于商学院的学位在这样的创业环境中有多少价值，他表达了怀疑——而且持这种想法的人不只他一个。许多风险资本家在追求投资“颠覆性”技术的过程中，都会对简历上满是传统成功标记的创业者表示怀疑。
“To see the credentialing of the entrepreneur is a little bit worrying,” Hugo Van Vuuren, a partner at the Experiment Fund, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., said on a panel at the conference on Sunday.
周日，雨果·范·维伦(Hugo Van Vuuren)在大会的一场讨论环节中说，“看到创业者来镀金，我感到有点担心。”范·维伦是位于马萨诸塞州坎布里奇的实验基金(Experiment Fund)的合伙人。
Even for students looking to be venture capitalists, a passion for technology is far more important than financial experience, according to Alex Benik, a principal at Battery Ventures. “Here are things I don’t care about,” he said on Sunday. “Ebitda” — earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization — “capital structure, leveraged multiples.”
巴特利风险投资(Battery Ventures)的主管亚历克斯·贝尼克(Alex Benik)周日说，即使对于那些希望能成为风险资本家的学生，对科技的热忱也远比金融经验更重要。他说，“这些都是我不关心的东西：Ebitda”——息税折旧及摊销前利润——“资本结构、杠杆率”。
Dressed casually in jeans and occasionally using profanities, Mr. Palihapitiya seemed to relish a role as a provocateur at the conference, which was in its 20th year. At one point, he said the chief executive of Apple, Timothy D. Cook, was simply “trying not to screw up.” (A spokesman for Apple declined to comment.)
今年是这场会议举办的第20个年头，此时衣着随意、穿着牛仔裤的帕里哈皮蒂亚似乎非常享受自己作为会议搅局者的角色，他偶尔还会冒出几句脏话。帕里哈皮蒂亚还说，苹果(Apple)的首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)只是在“努力别把事情搞砸”。（苹果的一名发言人拒绝置评。）
He also sounded off on a recent controversy surrounding Tom Perkins, a founder of the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, who said that protesters criticizing the wealthy “one percent” were similar to Nazis.
在最近关于汤姆·珀金斯(Tom Perkins)的一次争论中，他也发出了批评。珀金斯是风险资本公司凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)的创始人之一，曾说过那些对“1%”的富人提出批判的抗议者与纳粹党相似。
“The guy is just out of his mind,” said Mr. Palihapitiya “It’s like a cautionary tale of don’t mix Paxil, Viagra and Xanax.”
“这人疯了，”帕里哈皮蒂亚说。“这件事就像一个警世故事，告诉你不要把帕罗西汀(Paxil)、伟哥(Viagra)和阿普唑仑(Xanax)混着吃。”
On the subject of start-ups, Mr. Palihapitiya told the Harvard students that there were three industries in which they were “capable” of founding companies. These were health care, education and financial services.
在初创公司的问题上，帕里哈皮蒂亚告诉哈佛的学生们，他们“有能力”在三个行业建立公司。这三个行业是医疗、教育和金融服务。
“The beauty of those three things is that they’re not actually totally technologically led,” he said.
他说，“这三个行业的美妙之处就在于，它们其实并不完全靠科技来引领。”
One quality that Mr. Palihapitiya likes in an entrepreneur, he said, is naïveté. If someone in the audience decided to try to solve a problem in heart disease, without any prior medical experience, “I’d fund it on the spot,” he told the students.
帕里哈皮蒂亚说，他在创业者身上非常喜欢的一个品质就是天真。他告诉学生们，如果观众中有人决定要尝试解决一个心脏病方面的问题，而且之前没有任何医疗经验，“我会当场提供资助。”
But a crucial trait is technological prowess, said Mr. Palihapitiya, an early employee at Facebook. He pointed to examples of programmers who were instrumental in Facebook’s early life.
但是Facebook创业初期就在那里供职的帕里哈皮蒂亚说，科技的力量也是一个关键的因素。为了举例，他还讲了几名在Facebook创业初期起到关键作用的程序员的故事。
One of these was a rogue hacker who attacked Facebook several times before the company eventually hired him, Mr. Palihapitiya said. Another was an idiosyncratic programmer who would take off his shoes and socks and manipulate a computer mouse with his feet.
帕里哈皮蒂亚说，其中有个人曾是个游手好闲的黑客，他曾数次攻击Facebook，后来Facebook终于雇佣了他。另一名程序员举止怪异，他会脱掉鞋袜，用脚来控制电脑鼠标。
“Those are the people who are going to come up with those ideas that change the world,” he said.
他说，“将来能想到改变世界的点子的，就是这些人。”