In a few months, Kevin Niu is set to receive his Ph.D. from Harvard in physics. He’s studying nanotechnology, where he has focused on gallium nitride, which is used in the manufacture of Blu-ray Discs. So what’s he going to do with that Harvard degree? Go back to his native China and teach physics? Work at a prestigious laboratory? No. He’ll be spending time in Louisiana, producing a horror movie called “Abattoir.”
几个月后，牛楠(Kevin Niu)就将获得哈佛大学的物理学博士学位。他研究的是纳米技术，课题为氮化镓。这种材料可用于生产蓝光光盘。那么，他拿到哈佛学位后打算做什么呢？回到中国教物理吗？还是到一间著名的实验室工作？答案都是否定的。实际上，他会前往路易斯安那州，制作一部名为《屠宰场》(Abattoir)的恐怖电影。
Mr. Niu, 30, is a Canadian citizen who, before he left China at age 14, attended the prestigious No. 8 Middle School in Beijing — Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of China’s central bank, is an alumnus. But sometime during his undergraduate years as an electrical engineering major at the University of Illinois, he “found water” — discovered his calling — in the entertainment industry. He was a producer for “Of Mice and Men” on Broadway this year.
牛楠现年30岁，是加拿大公民。他14岁时离开中国，之前在著名的北京八中就读——中国的央行行长周小川也来自该校。在伊利诺伊大学(University of Illinois)读电气工程本科专业的四年中，他在娱乐行业“如鱼得水”，也就是说，找到了自己的职业方向。他成为了今年的百老汇剧目《人鼠之间》(Of Mice and Men)的制作人之一。
In an interview, Mr. Niu discussed why he is marrying Chinese money with American and other international movies that might never be released in Chinese theaters. Excerpts follow:
在这篇采访中，牛楠谈到了为什么自己会在中国的资金和可能永远不会在中国影院上映的美国片等国际电影之间牵线搭桥。采访摘录如下：
Q. It’s a big switch from nanotechnology to making movies. How did that happen?
问：从纳米技术到电影制作，中间的跨度很大。这个跨越是如何开始的呢？
A. I started doing nanotechnology really just because most of my family members are businesspeople. My father is a businessperson. He’s also relatively successful in his business. Everybody was from the tech industry. Toward the end of my college years, and toward the beginning of my graduate studies, I was introduced to the film and entertainment industry and that’s where I feel I found water. The business ideas I learned from the tech industry were useful. These skills could transfer. That’s helped me do things innovatively, and was useful to break certain paradigms and I think that’s where big things will happen.
答：我学纳米技术，不过是因为家里大多数都是生意人。我父亲经商，生意做得比较成功。他们全都从事科技业。我大学快毕业、将要开始读研究生的时候，对电影和娱乐行业有了一些了解，感觉是如鱼得水。我从科技业学到的经营理念相当有用。这些技能可以运用在其他行业中。这帮助我做事的时候勇于创新，有益于打破某些范式，我认为这里面蕴含着重要机会。
Q. My guess is that your family is happy, though, that you’re sticking with your degree before you pursue your movie career full time?
问：不过我猜，在全心追求电影业的职业生涯之前，你还在继续攻读学位，这一点会令你的家人高兴吧？
A. My family has been very supportive of me. For the first set of connections I had with investors in China, my parents introduced me to some of them. But of course I followed up. I tried to build trust with these people, and that’s actually how I got them to invest. But my parents helped me very much, and as Asian parents they are appreciative of the fact that I’m getting my degree. I didn’t drop out. I’m able to do these things on the side. Everything has been moving in parallel, and I’m actually able to complete them quite nicely.
答：家人一直很支持我。我在中国联系到的第一批投资者，其中一部分就是父母介绍我认识的。当然，我积极和他们保持了联络。我尽力与他们培养信任，就是这么吸引到他们投资的。但父母对我帮助非常大。我还是会拿到学位，这让他们很欣慰，亚裔父母就是这样。我没有辍学。我可以用课余时间来做这些事情。两方面同时进行，我也确实把它们都顺利完成了。
Q. But “Abattoir” is not going to be one of those movies that can be shown in China?
问：可是《屠宰场》属于那种无法在中国上映的电影吧？
A. In the beginning we actually had people in China who were interested in getting the distribution rights to the movie. I think, looking at that, I think maybe there’s a way for us to do that, but maybe not theatrically. Theatrically, you know, in China you have to go through censorship, the approval process with Sarft [State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television]. But Internet distribution, that’s something that could be possible. If you look at “Saw,” it was a very successful horror film. The director [of “Abattoir”], Darren Bousman, was the director of “Saw” II, III and IV. “Saw” was not theatrically released in China, but everyone in China knows about “Saw.” There are different domains that can be played in the future.
答：最开始时，中国还真有人对这部电影的发行权感兴趣。我想，不错啊，或许真的可以想办法做到，不过可能不是上院线。要在中国的影院上映，你必须经过广电总局（国家新闻出版广电总局）的审批才行。但在互联网上发行，那是有可能的，《电锯惊魂》(Saw)就是个例子。这部恐怖系列片非常成功，《屠宰场》的导演达伦·鲍斯曼(Darren Bousman)也执导了《电锯惊魂》第二、三、四部。《电锯惊魂》没有在中国的影院上映，但大家都知道这个系列。存在一些不同的渠道，以后可以用起来。
There are only a limited amount of slots in theaters every year. Horror is a very hot topic in China. People like it. I think it’s something people really want to see.
影院每年的排期量是有限的。恐怖片目前在中国相当热门。大家喜欢恐怖片。我认为有很大的需求。
Q. What kind of projects do you want to focus on?
问：你想把侧重点放在哪种类型的项目上呢？
A. I’m doing it more from a business perspective. The genre that we’ll be focusing on first will be this type of horror thriller, aimed for the international and the U.S. market. We will be thinking about how we can do these in China in the long run. The idea will be to bring Chinese resources, money resources, to projects here in the United States. I’m also thinking about doing romance comedies and lower-budget sci-fi films.
答：我更多地是从商业角度来看。我们首先会将重点放在恐怖惊悚片上，目标是国际市场和美国市场。我们也在考虑，长期来说，如何能在中国发行。目前的想法是把中国的资源，也就是资金引入到美国的项目中。我也在考虑制作浪漫喜剧和低成本科幻电影。
Q. It sounds like your ambition is eventually to land some of these movies in China. How tough is it to crack the movie industry? What about co-productions? What is your feeling on where that’s going?
问：听起来，你好像打算最终在中国上映一些影片。进军中国电影业有多难？合拍片呢？你感觉走合拍片的路子怎么样？
A. The Chinese market is definitely not an easy market simply because there are so many regulations. There are strict rules for co-productions. For example, a big portion of the story has to be related to China. You may have to get a main lead who is a Chinese actor or actress. Sometimes you can write a screenplay and you can base your story and finish your film following these requirements, but at the end you still have to go through another approval process. By then you have put all your resources on this movie, hoping that it will be released, but you are going to have to go through another master. That actually adds a lot of uncertainties to movie production. So I think more and more people realize that may not be the best way to go.
答：进入中国市场绝对不容易，完全是因为监管太多了。制作合拍片有严格的规定。例如，故事要有相当大的部分和中国有关，可能还必须让中国演员来扮演片中的一个主角。有时，你按照这些要求写好一个剧本，安排好了情节，拍完了电影，但之后还得走另一个审批过程。那时候你的资源已经全部绑定在这部电影里了，你希望能收回投资，但是还得通过又一轮审批。这实际上为拍电影添加了很多不确定性。所以我觉得，越来越多的人意识到这条路可能不太好走。