CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Two men sit in the dining hall, leaning over trays filled with stacks of pancakes and glasses of blue Gatorade.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇市——两个男人坐在餐厅里，面前的托盘上放满了成堆的薄饼和蓝色佳得乐(Gatorade)。
“She’s a solid 10. I’m banging her.”
“她绝对有10分。我要上她。”
“Hey! I called her.”
“嘿！我先要她的。”
“We can flip a coin.”
“那我们掷硬币决定吧。”
Between them, a flier lists resources available for students who have experienced sexual assault. The men, of course, do not notice the flier. Nor do they notice me, sitting a few seats away.
他们之间放着一张传单，为曾遭性侵的学生列出了一些求助资源。当然，他们没注意到那张传单，也没有注意到隔着几个座位的我。
When The Harvard Crimson reported that Harvard’s men’s soccer team circulated a sexually explicit “scouting report” evaluating female recruits, my friends and I were appalled, but not surprised. Nor were we surprised when the paper reported that the men’s cross-country team produced a similar document. We’d heard it before — in the dining hall, on the street, in the back of lecture halls — Harvard men rating and degrading Harvard women. After all, before he created Facebook in his Harvard dorm, Mark Zuckerberg made “facemash” — a site where Harvard students could deem their peers hot, or not.
《绯红报》(The Harvard Crimson)曝出哈佛男子足球队在传看一份语言露骨的“星探报告”，给新招募的女性成员打分，我和朋友们感到愤怒，但并不意外。报纸还曝出校男子越野队也有一份类似的报告，我们也不惊讶。之前我们在餐厅里、街上和报告厅里听说过哈佛男生评价并贬低哈佛女生的事。毕竟，马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)在哈佛大学的宿舍里创建Facebook之前，做过一个名为“facemash”的网站，哈佛学子们可以在这个网站上评价自己的同学的美丑。
It may seem shocking that students at one of America’s most elite universities, in one of its most progressive states, would behave so crudely. But in fact those publicly shared scouting reports show Harvard students engaging in an activity at which we excel: rating and categorizing one another.
这似乎令人震惊：美国最进步的州里最顶尖大学的学生们表现得如此粗鲁。但事实上，这些公开分享的星探报告表明，哈佛学子们在进行一项我们都很擅长的活动：给彼此评分、归类。
Like most adolescents, we’re eager to define our identities, and determine our place on campus and in the world. In high school, many of us were known as “the kid who got into Harvard.” Here, we can all claim that title, so we sort ourselves into groups even more exclusive than the roughly 5 percent of applicants our school admits.
和大部分青少年一样，我们渴望定义自己的身份，确定自己在校园和世界上的地位。高中时，我们中的很多人被称为“能上哈佛的孩子”。在这里，我们都可以这样称呼自己，所以我们把自己分成更独特的类别，而不只是这所学校接收的5%的申请者。
By the time my family dropped me off in Harvard Square, I had already submitted applications for limited-enrollment freshman seminars and pre-orientation programs for students interested in the arts and social justice. At convocation, as Harvard’s president delivered a speech about the importance of forming a community, I worried that everyone had already found their friends for the next four years.
我的家人把我送到哈佛广场(Harvard Square)时，我已经申请了招生限制政策新生研讨班和提前迎新项目，这些是为那些对文科和社会正义感兴趣的学生准备的。在开学典礼上，当哈佛校长在谈组建社区的重要性时，我担心大家已经找到了未来四年的朋友。
I soon found that the students who competed for academic honors and leadership positions during the day staged different contests at night. On Friday and Saturday evenings, young women dressed in bandage skirts and heels line up outside the clubhouses on Mt. Auburn Street. Shivering in the cold, they wait for the nod of a bouncer. On Sunday mornings, young men brag about their conquests.
我很快发现，白天为学术荣誉和领导职位竞争的学生们，晚上在进行不同的竞赛。周五和周六晚上，穿着绷带裙和高跟鞋的少女在奥本山街(Mt. Auburn Street)的俱乐部外排队。她们在寒风中颤抖，等待保镖点头。周日早上，小伙子们吹嘘着自己的战果。
Sometimes, the line between academic and sexual competition blurs. Many campus extracurricular organizations choose members through a process called “the comp,” which may include cocktail parties as well as work requirements. During my freshman year, I attended the introductory meeting for a campus literary magazine. Members, dressed in black, stood behind a big wooden table and smoked cigarettes. Empty wine bottles served as candlesticks. The magazine’s editors promised that applicants would be judged only on the basis of their literary merits, but I still felt pressure to dress carefully for every meeting. Was I cool enough to join? Witty enough? Pretty enough?
有时，学术竞争和性竞争之间的界线很模糊。很多校园课外组织通过一个名为“the comp”的程序选择成员，它可能包括鸡尾酒派对和工作要求。大一时，我去参加一份校园文学杂志的介绍会。会员们身穿黑衣，站在一张大木桌后面抽烟。空红酒瓶被用作烛台。杂志编辑们承诺，只会根据申请者的文学素养进行判断，但我依然觉得有压力，每次开会都精心着装。我够酷吗？够风趣吗？够好看吗？
Now, as a senior, I stand behind the tables. While my friends and I don’t evaluate the appearance of female “compers” or candidates for leadership positions, we toss out superficial judgments about our fellow students all too easily:
现在，作为一名大四学生，我站在桌子后面。虽然我和朋友们不会根据女性“竞争者”或候选人的外貌来评判她们是否适合担任领导职位，但我们太容易做出一些肤浅的评判：
“He really dropped the ball on that project.”
“在那个项目上，他的确处理失当。”
“She never smiles.”
“她从来不笑。”
“She just doesn’t seem committed.”
“她就是看起来不够尽心。”
We gossip under the guise of meritocracy.
我们打着精英政治的幌子说长道短。
Harvard’s competitiveness does not cause men to degrade women. Men — even, apparently, presidents — need no excuse to do that. Yet when we regularly evaluate one another’s fitness to join our organizations, attend our parties and become our friends, we give misogyny a vocabulary. We give it a place on our campus, and in our culture.
哈佛的激烈竞争并没有导致男性贬低女性。男人们——显然甚至包括总统们——那样做是不需要借口的。但是，当我们经常评估对方是否能够加入我们的组织、党派或成为我们的朋友时，我们给性别歧视提供了一个说法。我们让它在我们的校园和文化中占据了一个位置。
It’s not just Harvard, either. We are the generation of the Buzzfeed listicle, the Yelp rating, the Tinder swipe and the Facebook like. Surely, the Paleolithic man ranked women on the walls of his cave, but the 21st-century man makes his lists for all the world to see.
不只哈佛是这样。我们是Buzzfeed清单、Yelp评分、Tinder扫脸和Facebook点赞的一代人。当然，旧石器时代的男人也会在自己的洞穴石壁上给女人排名次，但21世纪的男人要让全世界看到自己的排名。
Each entry in the soccer team’s 2012 scouting report included, in addition to a nickname and a numerical value, a paragraphs-long assessment and a photograph culled from social media. The cross-country team designed spreadsheets, some of which allowed individual men to add comments about the women’s physical appearance. This “locker room talk” was not idle chatter, but a project that required time, effort and a certain kind of skill.
足球队2012年星探报告的每个条目除了包括昵称和评分，还有一段评语和一张从社交媒体上挑来的照片。越野队设计了电子表格，其中一些允许男生添加对女生外貌的评论。这种“更衣室谈话”不是随便闲聊，而是一个需要时间、精力和某种技能的项目。
We’ve honed that skill for years.
这项技能我们已磨练多年。