CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Dozens of Harvard Law School faculty members are asking the university to withdraw its new sexual misconduct policy, saying that it violates basic principles of fairness and would do more harm than good.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——数十位哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)教员要求大学收回针对性行为不端的新政策，称这些政策对公正的基本原则构成侵害，弊大于利。
“Harvard has adopted procedures for deciding cases of alleged sexual misconduct which lack the most basic elements of fairness and due process, are overwhelmingly stacked against the accused, and are in no way required” by the federal anti-discrimination law, known as Title IX, they wrote in an op-ed article signed by 28 current and retired members of the Harvard Law faculty and posted online by The Boston Globe on Tuesday night.
他们在一篇观点文章中写道，“哈佛在性行为不端指控的裁断上引入的程序，缺乏公正和正当程序的最基本元素，将被告置于极为不利的境地，这绝不是”人称“第九条”(Title IX)的联邦反歧视法“所要求的”。文章有28名哈佛法学院现职与退休教员的署名，周二晚上通过《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)在线发表。
“It’s a totally secret process, in which real genuine unfairnesses can happen, and it’s so airtight that no one would know,” Janet Halley, one of the professors who signed the article, said Wednesday.
“这是个完全保密的过程，期间可能出现确凿无疑的不公正，而且它是密不透风的，不会有人知道这些不公正，”文章署名人之一珍妮特·霍利(Janet Halley)在周三表示。
Harvard College and Harvard Law School are among the dozens of higher-education institutions under investigation by the federal Education Department over their handling of complaints of sexual assault or sexual harassment.
现有数十所大学因对性侵犯或性骚扰投诉的处理方式受到联邦教育部(Education Department)调查，哈佛学院(Harvard College)和哈佛法学院就位列其中。
The federal government has threatened to withhold funds from universities that do not have adequate sexual misconduct policies.
联邦政府曾威胁称，要对那些没有充分制定性行为不端政策的大学停止拨款。
So over the summer, Harvard, like many other institutions, announced a broad new policy aimed at preventing sexual harassment and sexual violence. The policy, which went into effect last month, defined sexual harassment for the first time, and created new procedures for dealing with complaints.
因此，和其他许多学校一样，哈佛在今年夏天宣布了一项广泛的新政策，旨在防止性骚扰和性暴力的发生。这项于上月生效的政策首次对性骚扰进行了界定，设立了新的投诉处理程序。
The law professors say the new procedures are fundamentally flawed.
法学教授们认为，新的程序存在根本上的缺陷。
“Harvard has made the Title IX office the charger, the prosecutor, the investigator, the adjudicator and the appeals board, and its sole task is to get this Title IX furor to go away. So at every stage, that office is deeply invested in the rightness of what they did at the prior stage,” Professor Halley said.
“哈佛将‘第九条’办公室变成了控告方、公诉方、调查者、仲裁者和上诉委员会，它的唯一任务就是平息‘第九条’公愤。因此，在程序的每一个环节，这个办公室都具有强大动力，去维持自己在上一环节中的所作所为的正义性，”霍利说。
The new policy, the professors said, is skewed against the accused, who have no assurance of adequate representation, or of a chance to confront witnesses or present a defense at an adversary hearing.
霍利认为这项新政策是对被控者不利的，不能保证充分代表，或者获得与证人对质的机会，或通过一场对抗式听证会进行辩护。
In a statement responding to the law professors, Harvard defended the new policy, which it said was “an expert, neutral, fair and objective mechanism for investigating sexual misconduct cases involving students.”
为回应法学教授们的文章，哈佛大学发布了一份声明，对新政进行了辩护，称它“为牵涉学生的性行为不端案件调查建立了一种专业、中立、公平和客观的机制。”
Savannah Fritz, a sophomore, reading about the professors’ protest in The Harvard Crimson, the student newspaper, called the law professors’ protest “a step backward.”
二年级生萨瓦娜·弗里茨(Savannah Fritz)在学生报纸《哈佛深红报》(The Harvard Crimson)上看到了教授抗议的消息，称法学教授们的抗议是“一种倒退”。
“It just seems like they’re defending those who are accused of sexual assault,” Ms. Fritz said. “Harvard is trying to create these policies to protect those who need defending.” She said the policy was not perfect, but called it “a step in the right direction.” MaryRose Mazzola, a public policy student at the Kennedy School of Government and a member of Harvard Students Demand Respect, said she would like to see an even tougher sexual misconduct policy. Her group was among those that have started a petition to add an affirmative consent provision to the policy, similar to one recently adopted in California, requiring both students to consent actively to each sexual act.
“看上去他们好像在捍卫那些被控有性侵犯行为的人，”弗里茨说。“哈佛创设这些政策是为了保护那些需要得到捍卫的人。”她说这项政策不完美，但称它“是向正确的方向迈出了一步。”在肯尼迪政府学院(Kennedy School of Government)修公共政策的玛丽萝丝·马佐拉(MaryRose Mazzola)是“哈佛学生要尊重”(Harvard Students Demand Respect)组织成员，她说她认为性行为不端政策甚至应该比这更严厉。包括她的组织在内的一些团体共同发起了一项请愿，要求在政策中加入有关“明确同意”(affirmative consent)的条款，类似于在加州已经实行的规定，要求学生的每次性行为都要获得双方的积极同意。
“We’re deeply concerned with the sentiments of the letter,” Ms. Mazzola said. “But it’s important to note that the letter is from some law faculty, but doesn’t represent the whole school or the university or the students. There’s disagreement on both sides.”
“我们对这封信表露的看法深表担忧，”马佐拉说。“但是一定要看到，这封信是来自部分法学教员，而不代表整个学院或大学或学生全体。双方都是存在分歧的。”
Members of another student group, Our Harvard Can Do Better, said in a statement that they were “deeply disturbed” by the letter. “By implying Harvard should disregard its legal obligation to protect all of its students and ensure a safe and antidiscriminatory environment, this piece displays a callous lack of understanding of sexual violence and its effect on survivors in educational institutions,” the members wrote.
另一个学生团体“我们的哈佛可以更好”(Our Harvard Can Do Better)在一份声明中说，这封信令他们“深为不安”。“此信暗示哈佛应该无视其保护所有学生、确立一个安全和反歧视环境之法律义务，显露出对教育机构中的性暴力及其对幸存者的影响存在冷漠的无知，”团体成员写道。