HARBIN, China — In winter, tourists flock to Harbin, in northeastern China, for its world-renowned ice sculpture festival. But with summer in full bloom, this city is working overtime on behalf of a less publicized part of its heritage: classical music.
中国哈尔滨――冬天，游客们纷纷涌向中国东北的哈尔滨，观赏世界闻名的冰雕节。但在盛夏，这座城市正在为古典音乐而忙碌，这是它的另一份较少为世人所知的遗产。
The arts — and especially classical music — flourished here throughout the early 20th century. Nicknamed the St. Petersburg of the East, Harbin was home to a thriving Jewish community that helped build a rich cultural scene, including China’s first symphony orchestra, made up of mostly Russian musicians.
20世纪初，艺术，特别是古典音乐，曾在这里兴盛一时。哈尔滨绰号东方圣彼得堡，这里曾有一个繁荣的犹太社区，协助建立起了一个丰富多彩的文化场景，其中包括中国最早的交响乐团，主要由俄罗斯音乐家组成。
“Harbin is a modern city that has a deep tradition of music,” Liu Shifa, the city’s deputy mayor, said recently in an interview. “We want to rejuvenate this tradition so we can bring it to the next level.”
“哈尔滨是一座现代化的城市，有着深厚的音乐传统，”哈尔滨副市长柳士发在近期的采访中说。“我们希望振兴这个传统，把它带上更高的层次。”
On Saturday, the annual Harbin Summer Music Festival began its 33rd edition, which will continue until Aug. 20. This summer the city has also hosted the third Alice & Eleonore Schoenfeld International String Competition and two concerts conducted by Zubin Mehta, featuring the Harbin Symphony Orchestra and 15 members of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra. The festival lineup includes the a cappella group Ball in the House from Boston, the Kodaly Quartet from Hungary and the Yinhe Siqin Mongolia Original Music Band.
周六，第33届哈尔滨之夏音乐会(Harbin Summer Music Festival)即将举行，这个一年一度的盛会将持续到8月20日。今年夏天，这座城市主办了第三届爱丽丝与爱伦诺·勋菲尔德国际弦乐比赛(Alice & Eleonore Schoenfeld International String Competition)，还举行了两场祖宾·梅塔(Zubin Mehta)指挥，由哈尔滨交响乐团及15名以色列爱乐乐团的音乐家演奏的音乐会。参加这次哈尔滨之夏音乐会的包括波士顿无伴奏人声合唱团Ball in the House、匈牙利的柯达伊四重奏乐团(Kodaly Quartet)以及音和思琴蒙古原生态乐团。
With President Xi Jinping having called for a “cultural renaissance,” Harbin, like a number of other second- and third-tier cities around China, has poured hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years into cultural infrastructure projects.
随着习近平主席最近号召“文化复兴”，哈尔滨同中国众多的二三线城市一样，近年来已斥资数亿美元，兴建文化基础建设项目。
In the past two years alone it has unveiled a gleaming concert hall, an 850,000-square-foot opera house and a $116 million conservatory built in a neo-Classical style. Giant sculptures of Chinese classical instruments and statues of famous Western composers dot the 121-acre Harbin Music Park, which opened in 2012.
仅在过去两年里，它已经建成一座光彩夺目的音乐厅、一座占地85万平方英尺的歌剧院，以及一座耗资1.16美元、新古典建筑风格的音乐学院。在2012年开放的哈尔滨音乐主题公园，121英亩的园区内坐落着许多中国传统乐器和西方著名作曲家的巨型雕塑。
Crucially, reviving Harbin’s musical tradition has also meant strengthening its ties to the city’s Jewish past. That is one facet of a larger effort to promote tourism and strengthen economic bonds with countries like Israel.
重要的是，复兴哈尔滨的音乐传统，也意味着要增强它与这座城市的犹太历史之间的联系。这亦属于一项更广泛的工作，有助于促进旅游业，以及增强和以色列等国家的经济联系。
City officials have a “vision of building a cultural bridge with Israel,” said Mr. Mehta, the longtime music director of the Israel Philharmonic. “So I came as a catalyst between the two sides.”
在以色列爱乐乐团常年担任音乐总监的梅塔说，这座城市的官员们，“在展望着搭建一座同以色列之间的文化桥梁，我的角色是双方之间的催化剂。”
In the packed audience during one of the conductor’s concerts was Mr. Liu, the deputy mayor, along with a delegation of local government officials.
这位指挥家的音乐会座无虚席，柳士发副市长带领着一群本地政府官员也出席了其中一场。
“Interest in the Harbin Jewish community has gone up tremendously,” said Dan Ben-Canaan, director of the Sino-Israel Research and Study Center at Heilongjiang University in Harbin. “Fifteen years ago, there was zero interest and zero acknowledgment of the community.”
“对哈尔滨犹太社区的兴趣有了很大增长，”哈尔滨黑龙江大学中国-以色列调查研究中心的主管丹·本-卡南(Dan Ben-Canaan)说。“15年前，人们对这个社区毫无兴趣，也一无所知。”
The government now maintains a once neglected Jewish cemetery where Joseph Olmert, a grandfather of the former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert, is buried. The city has also invested millions of dollars in restoring Jewish-built structures, including the Old Synagogue, which provided a cool respite from one sticky evening this summer when a local string quartet performed Brahms, Scott Joplin and the Chinese folk song “Jasmine Flower.”
政府目前在维修以色列前总理埃德胡·奥尔默特(Ehud Olmert)的祖父约瑟夫·奥尔默特(Joseph Olmert)的墓地，这里一度被人遗忘。这座城市还投资数百万美元重修犹太建筑，包括犹太总会堂，一个炎热的夏日夜晚，一支本地弦乐四重奏还曾在这里演奏勃拉姆斯(Brahms)、斯科特·乔普林(Scott Joplin)和中国民歌《茉莉花》，为避暑的人们带来清凉。
Soon after its establishment in 1898, Harbin grew into a thriving administrative hub for the China Eastern Railway, built to connect Moscow to Vladivostok.
哈尔滨于1898年建城，很快它就成了连接莫斯科与海参崴的中东铁路上的繁荣枢纽。
During the 1920s, the city was home to as many as 20,000 Jews. Some were refugees who wanted to escape czarist pogroms in Russia and, later, the Bolshevik Revolution and World War I. But unlike the Jews in Shanghai and other China cities with large Jewish communities, many in Harbin were also merchants and entrepreneurs who had come from Russia and Europe seeking economic opportunities.
20世纪20年代，有两万名犹太人在这座城市里安家。有些是逃避沙皇暴政的俄罗斯难民，后来又有因布尔什维克革命与“一战”而逃亡的难民。但是和上海以及其他拥有大型犹太人社区城市里的犹太人不一样，哈尔滨还有很多犹太人是商人和实业家，他们从俄罗斯和欧洲来这里是为了寻求商机。
“In a sense, the Harbin Jews were more wealthy and aristocratic than the other Jews in China,” Mr. Ben-Canaan said. “They built a much richer and stronger foundation for culture.”
“在某种意义上，哈尔滨的犹太人比中国其他地方的犹太人更加富有，更加贵族化，”本-卡南说。“他们为文化事业建立起了一个更富有、更坚实的基础。”
The city soon became a gateway for Western classical music in China. In addition to the country’s first symphony orchestra — founded in 1908 — Harbin had as many as 30 music schools where a number of prominent international musicians trained, including the German violinist Helmut Stern. There were jazz orchestras, ballet performances, drama groups, theater companies and even a Yiddish theater.
这座城市很快就成了西方古典音乐在中国的门户。1908年，这座城市有了中国的第一个交响乐团，此外，哈尔滨还有了30所音乐学校，许多国际著名的音乐家都曾在这里接受训练，包括德国小提琴家赫尔穆特·斯特恩(Helmut Stern)。这里还有爵士乐队、芭蕾舞表演、戏剧团体、舞台剧剧团，甚至还有一个意第绪剧团。
“The Jewish community made huge contributions to the establishment of Harbin’s musical tradition,” said Miao Di, director of the Harbin Museum of Music. “So many of China’s top classical musicians in the early 20th century trained in Harbin or studied under teachers trained in Harbin.”
“犹太社区对哈尔滨的音乐传统做出了巨大贡献，”哈尔滨音乐博物馆馆长苗笛说。“20世纪初，很多中国顶尖古典音乐家都曾在哈尔滨接受训练，或是跟随哈尔滨培训出来的老师学习。”
After the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in the 1930s, however, the city’s Jewish population began to decline as Jews fled.
20世纪30年代，日本侵略东北之后，犹太人纷纷离开，这座城市的犹太人口开始减少。
By the mid-1950s, after World War II and the victory of the Chinese Communist Party, only a few hundred Jews remained.
20世纪50年代中期，“二战”结束，中国共产党取得胜利之后，这里只剩下几百名犹太人。
Yet even after the departure of most of the city’s foreigners, Harbin continued to devote resources to classical music. It established the summer music festival in 1958.
然而，就算在大多数外国人都已离开这座城市之后，哈尔滨仍然为古典音乐做出贡献。1958年，它就主办了夏季音乐会。
In 2010, the United Nations recognized Harbin as a Music City. Today it is still common to see local musicians and bands serenading crowds on the popular Zhongyang Pedestrian Street in the summer.
2010年，联合国授予哈尔滨音乐之都的称号。如今，每逢夏天，在受人喜爱的中央大街步行街上，还经常可以见到本地音乐家与乐队为人们演出。
“There’s a different attitude toward the high arts in Harbin,” said Jindong Cai, a Stanford professor and frequent guest conductor with Chinese orchestras. “Every city in China is trying to find its niche, and it’s clear that Harbin discovered theirs early.”
“哈尔滨人对于高雅艺术有一种完全不同的态度，”斯坦福大学教授蔡金冬说，他也经常为中国交响乐团担任客座指挥。“中国的所有城市都在尝试寻找自己的特殊定位，显然，哈尔滨早早就发现了它。”
Still, there is a long road ahead before Harbin can be considered a world-class musical city.
然而，要成为世界级的音乐城市，哈尔滨还有很长的路要走。
Major issues need to be addressed, such as how to create consistent quality programming for the new concert hall and grand theater, and how to recruit world-class faculty and students for a new conservatory that is competing with other, more established ones.
还有很多重大问题需要解决，比如如何为崭新的音乐厅与大剧场建立质量稳定的演出安排，如何为新的音乐学院吸引世界级的师资和生源，与其他更为著名的音乐学院竞争。
It does not help that the pool of talented musicians in China is shrinking as more and more musicians choose to study and play abroad.
如今，愈来愈多的中国音乐家选择去海外学习和演奏，中国的音乐人才正在流失，这对事态当然更没有帮助。
“Look at the American orchestras; they are full of excellent Chinese musicians,” Mr. Mehta said. “My advice is to call these musicians to at least come back and teach.”
“看看那些美国交响乐团吧，里面全是出色的中国音乐家，”梅塔说。“我的建议是至少把这些音乐家叫回来进行教学。”
At least one Chinese musician, Suli Xue, has heeded that call. Several years ago, Mr. Xue, a violinist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, decided to take advantage of the growing interest in classical music in Harbin, his hometown.
中国音乐家薛苏里便是响应了这样的召唤。几年前，在洛杉矶交响乐团担任小提琴手的薛苏里决定趁着哈尔滨对古典音乐的兴趣日益增长的机会回到这里，这里也是他的家乡。
The government quickly agreed to his proposal to host the Alice & Eleonore Schoenfeld International String Competition. Beginning last month, Harbin hosted the competition for the second consecutive year, with the government providing the venues and paying for some of the competition’s costs.
政府很快同意了他的建议，让他来主办爱丽丝与爱伦诺·勋菲尔德国际弦乐比赛。该项赛事与上月开始，哈尔滨已经连续两年主办这项赛事，政府提供场馆，并且负担了竞赛的若干开支。
“In China, when you get the government’s support, it’s very strong,” said Mr. Xue, who is the artistic director of the competition.
“在中国，如果有了政府的支持，就会很强大，”薛苏里说，他是这项竞赛的艺术总监。
Such international exchanges “help improve the musical taste of the entire city of Harbin,” said Mr. Liu, the deputy mayor, during intermission at Mr. Mehta’s concert.
这样的国际交流“有助于提高整个哈尔滨市的音乐品味”，柳士发副市长在梅塔音乐会的中场休息时候说。
Perhaps more important, he said, they help move China toward its longer-term cultural vision.
他表示，或许更重要的是，这些交流能促进中国实现长远的文化目标。
“If one day we can attend a performance by a Chinese master leading a performance of a work by a famous Chinese composer,” he said, “that would be the dream.”
“如果有一天，我们来参加一场音乐会，由一位中国大师指挥，演奏一位中国著名作曲家的作品，”他说，“这个梦就实现了。”