WASHINGTON — By forcing out Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, President Obama has severed the obvious weak link from a national security team that has struggled to keep ahead of crises. But his very limited shakeup does not address deeper doubts about the team’s capacity to deal with problems from the Islamic State to the Ebola outbreak.
华盛顿——迫使国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)辞职后，奥巴马总统切断了国家安全团队的一个明显薄弱的环节，这个团队在此前的危机中一直显得被动。但这次十分有限的调整并没有打消一些更深的疑虑，即这个团队是否有能力处理从伊斯兰国(Islamic State)到埃博拉疫情的种种问题。
Mr. Obama does not appear likely to replace his national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, who skirmished with Mr. Hagel over Syria policy and the release of prisoners from the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Nor is he mulling a change in his chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, who has exerted heavy influence over national security issues.
奥巴马似乎不太可能换掉国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)，后者曾在叙利亚政策和古巴关塔那摩湾军事监狱囚犯释放的问题上与哈格尔存在分歧。他也不会考虑更换幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)，后者在国家安全问题上具有重大的影响力。
If anything, Mr. Hagel’s exit may represent the final triumph of a White House-centric approach to national security. With the president’s core team intact, and none of the candidates to succeed Mr. Hagel showing the independent streak of Mr. Obama’s first-term Pentagon chief, Robert M. Gates, the White House seems likely to keep a tight leash on foreign policy for the remainder of Mr. Obama’s presidency.
哈格尔的离开可能代表着在应对国家安全的问题上，以白宫为中心的策略的最终胜利。鉴于总统的核心团队仍然完好无损，而在哈格尔继任者的候选人中，没有人表现出奥巴马第一任期的国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)的独立个性，在奥巴马的剩余任期内，白宫似乎很可能将对外交工作进行严格的控制。
Mr. Hagel never penetrated the inner circle of aides around the president, according to current and former officials. He spoke little in important policy meetings, they said, and ceded much of the job’s public dimension, like explaining the administration’s military policies to Congress, to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey.
现任及前任官员称，哈格尔从来没有进入奥巴马及其幕僚的内部圈子。他们说，他在重要的政策会议上沉默寡言，很大程度上将这个职位的公共事务角色拱手让出，比如向国会以及参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen.Martin E. Dempsey)解释政府的军事政策。
The weaknesses in Mr. Obama’s team were exposed on the same day that negotiators in Vienna failed to strike a deal with Iran on its nuclear program. While experts said the seven-month extension in the talks was an acceptable fallback that would preserve the chance for eventual success, it underscored how hard it would be to secure a deal that Mr. Obama and his aides had long hoped would be a legacy achievement.
在维也纳的谈判官员未能就伊朗核计划与该国达成协议的当天，奥巴马团队的虚弱也被曝露出来。专家称，谈判期延长七个月是可以接受的退路，最终取得成功的可能性仍然存在，然而这还是突显出，要达成奥巴马及其幕僚长期以来希望能成为遗产成就的一项协议，是多么困难。
The Iran talks, however, strengthen the standing of the other key Cabinet member in Mr. Obama’s war council, Secretary of State John Kerry. Mr. Kerry will continue to be engaged in trying to negotiate an agreement, and Mr. Obama could not afford the upheaval of another Cabinet-level resignation. In recent weeks, as rumors of a shakeup surfaced, White House officials emphasized the president’s confidence in Mr. Kerry, even as they were more muted about Mr. Hagel.
但与伊朗的谈判巩固了奥巴马战争委员会中的另一名关键内阁成员，即国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)的地位。克里将继续努力尝试通过谈判达成协议，而奥巴马可能也无法承受再有一名内阁级别成员辞职这种巨变。最近几周，随着改组传言的浮现，白宫官员强调总统对克里有信心，但他们在谈到哈格尔时则较为沉默。
Still, even in diplomacy, the West Wing will continue to play a powerful role. Mr. Obama, officials say, is not about to give up his reliance on Mr. McDonough, Ms. Rice, and other longtime aides. The White House was in constant contact with Mr. Kerry, as he and other foreign ministers reached the seven-month extension with Iran, officials said.
然而，即便是在外交上，白宫西配楼将依然扮演重要角色。官员称，奥巴马不会停止对麦克多诺、赖斯和其他长期助手的倚重。官员称，在克里和其他外长与伊朗达成将谈判延长七个月的一致意见时，白宫一直与克里保持着密切联系。
The president recently nominated one of his top aides, Antony J. Blinken, as deputy secretary of state, passing over Mr. Kerry’s preferred candidate, Wendy R. Sherman. Mr. Kerry had argued that Ms. Sherman, the department’s No. 3 official and the lead, day-to-day negotiator on the Iran talks, deserved the promotion. But Mr. Obama went with Mr. Blinken, who serves as Ms. Rice’s principal deputy on the National Security Council.
前不久，奥巴马提名自己的高级助手之一安东尼·J·布林肯(Antony J. Blinken)担任常务副国务卿，未考虑克里青睐的人选温迪·R·谢尔曼(Wendy R. Sherman)。克里曾表示，作为国务院的三号官员，谢尔曼是对伊谈判的首席代表，出现在了每一场谈判上，升职是应该的。但奥巴马选择了布林肯。布林肯目前是赖斯在国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的首席副手。