TEHRAN, Iran — This is Hassan Rouhani’s moment. The toast of the United Nations, the new Iranian president is busy granting interviews to select audiences and possibly cramming in a meeting with President Obama — the first such high-level get together since the 1979 revolution. But when he stands before the world to speak on Tuesday, he will do so as the loyal representative of Iran’s supreme leader, the ultimate authority behind the country’s recent diplomatic charm offensive.
伊朗德黑兰——这是哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的光彩时刻。作为联合国大会的热门人物，这位伊朗新总统正忙于应付精选的采访活动，还可能见缝插针地安排与美国总统奥巴马会晤——那将是1979年伊朗革命以来美伊之间首次这样的高层接触。不过，当他周二站在联合国讲台上对全世界发表演讲的时候，他将作为伊朗最高领袖的忠实代表发言。最高领袖才是伊朗最近外交魅力攻势背后的终极权威。
Since his election in June, Mr. Rouhani has made no secret of his wish to reach an accord with the West on Iran’s nuclear program — and no secret that the only reason he can reach out so conspicuously is because he has the support, for now anyway, of one man, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader.
今年6月当选总统后，鲁哈尼毫不掩饰自己希望就伊朗核计划与西方达成协议。同样毫无疑问的是，他之所以能如此高调地采取主动，是因为他有，至少是目前有，最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)的支持。
“Rouhani can only attempt to have direct talks, because the supreme leader has agreed to it, otherwise Rouhani would not be in New York now,” said Hamid-Reza Taraghi, an insider who is one of the few people trusted to interpret for the public the supreme leader’s sermons and speeches. “The president and his team enter any talks only under the leader’s direct command.”
圈内人士哈米德-礼萨·塔拉吉(Hamid-Reza Taraghi)是得到信任、可向公众诠释最高领袖的布道及演讲的少数权威之一。他说，“鲁哈尼能够尝试进行直接对话，只是因为最高领袖同意这样做，否则鲁哈尼现在都不会出现在纽约。总统及其团队只能按照最高领袖的直接指令投入任何谈判。”
An enigmatic and cunning man, Ayatollah Khamenei, 74, is the one who gave Mr. Rouhani the authority to pursue a deal with the United States, top aides to Mr. Rouhani and outside experts say, and could just as easily cut off support — as he has done to some Iranian leaders before, including Mr. Rouhani.
74岁的哈梅内伊是个让人捉摸不透的老狐狸。鲁哈尼的高级幕僚以及外部专家均表示，是哈梅内伊授予了鲁哈尼寻求与美国达成协议的权限，他也同样有可能一下子撤回这种支持，就像他过去对一些伊朗领导人（包括鲁哈尼）所做的那样。
Ayatollah Khamenei sees himself as a sort of referee of Iran’s complex political system, sitting in judgment of the politicians he anoints to lead the country in what are often sharply different directions. In 1997, for example, he blessed the reformist candidacy of Mohammad Khatami, who relaxed some social restrictions and allowed more press freedom.
哈梅内伊自视为伊朗复杂政治体制的某种裁判，对自己指定领导国家的政治人物拥有裁判权，而这些人带领伊朗所走的方向往往截然不同。比方说，1997年，他对改革派候选人穆罕默德·哈塔米(Mohammad Khatami)给予了支持，后者执政期间放松了部分社会限制，并允许有更大的新闻自由。
But he allowed the hard-liners to undermine Mr. Khatami’s presidency, and in 2005 he pinwheeled to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the strident nationalist hard-liner, who denied the Holocaust and antagonized the West for much of his eight years in office.
不过，哈梅内伊也纵容强硬派破坏哈塔米的总统任期。到了2005年，他转向死硬的民族主义强硬派马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)。内贾德否认纳粹大屠杀的真实性，并在其八年任期的大部分时间里处处与西方作对。
This year, in a surprise to almost all Iran watchers, Ayatollah Khamenei has seemed to get behind Mr. Rouhani’s diplomatic push, talking in somewhat opaque but nevertheless conciliatory terms of “heroic flexibility.” And on Monday, in another gesture of support for Mr. Rouhani, Iran released 80 political prisoners. But the question for many here is, how much room will the supreme leader allow for diplomacy before pulling the rug out from under Mr. Rouhani?
今年，让几乎所有观察伊朗的人士意外的是，哈梅内伊似乎支持鲁哈尼的外交努力，在言论中使用了“英勇的灵活性”这种晦涩但带有和解意味的措辞。本周一，伊朗释放了80名政治犯，作为支持鲁哈尼的又一姿态。但对伊朗的许多人而言，问题在于，最高领袖在突然撤销对鲁哈尼的支持之前，会给外交努力留出多少空间？
This is not the first go around for Ayatollah Khamenei and Mr. Rouhani, himself something of a prodigy who was once the darling of the clerics who founded the Islamic republic. In 2003 Mr. Rouhani, then the chief nuclear negotiator, persuaded Ayatollah Khamenei to suspend uranium enrichment for several months in hopes of reaching a nuclear deal. But the negotiations broke down and Mr. Rouhani was banished from the circles of power before being resurrected this spring.
这不是哈梅内伊和鲁哈尼第一次经常打交道。鲁哈尼本人算是颇有天资，曾被创立伊斯兰共和国的神职人员看好。2003年，时任核问题首席谈判官的鲁哈尼说服哈梅内伊将铀浓缩项目暂停了数月，希望能达成核协议。然而谈判最终破裂，鲁哈尼也被排挤出权力核心，直到今年春季被重新启用。
From Ayatollah Khamenei’s perspective, experts say, it makes perfect sense to stand back and allow Mr. Rouhani to conduct talks with the country’s main adversary.
专家们表示，从哈梅内伊的视角看，自己后退一步，让鲁哈尼与伊朗的主要对手进行谈判完全是上策。
“Everybody understands that Supreme Leader Khamenei is in a win-win situation.” said Mojtaba Mousavi, an Iranian political commentator who is often briefed by officials close to the leader. He explained that if talks lead to the reduction or elimination of the economic sanctions that have damaged Iran’s economy, Ayatollah Khamenei will get the credit for approving the new negotiating strategy.
伊朗政治评论人士、经常从最高领袖身边的官员得到消息的穆杰塔巴·穆萨维(Mojtaba Mousavi)指出，“每个人都明白，最高领袖哈梅内伊处在稳操胜券的地位。”他解释说，如果谈判使得损害伊朗经济的制裁得以放松或解除，哈梅内伊就能因批准了新的谈判策略而居功。
But Ayatollah Khamenei can also take the credit if the talks should collapse. “If talks fail to reach any results, he will be praised for having proved his warnings over the dishonesty by the West towards Iran,” said Mr. Mousavi. “In that case his doubts will be proved once again.”
另一方面，如果谈判破裂，哈梅内伊也可以居功。“如果谈判一无所成，他也将获得赞扬，因为这证明了他的警告：西方对伊朗毫无诚意，”穆萨维说。“在那种情况下，他的怀疑将再次得到验证。”
Experts here say that Ayatollah Khamenei, 74, who was appointed supreme leader in 1989, is interested in testing the flexibility of the United States in negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program, which it says is for peaceful uses but the West says is a cover for developing nuclear weapons.
74岁的哈梅内伊于1989年被指定为最高领袖。一些专家表示，他想要试探美国在伊朗核计划谈判上的弹性。伊朗声称，其核计划是为了和平用途，但西方认为这是研发核武器的幌子。
“The leader is giving the U.S. an opportunity to change its ways, although he doubts such a thing can ever happen,” said Mr. Taraghi, who stressed that Ayatollah Khamenei had “permitted” Mr. Rouhani to explore possibilities. “Our leader is waiting to see whether the U.S. will follow Iran in taking a step towards positive engagement.”
“最高领袖是在给美国机会来改变做法，尽管他本人怀疑这永远不可能实现，”塔拉吉说。他强调，哈梅内伊已经“准许”鲁哈尼来探索各种可能性。“我们的领袖正拭目以待，看美国会不会跟随伊朗，朝着积极接触的方向迈出一步。”
For all the attention paid to Iran’s new tone of moderation, insiders here say the supreme leader will never compromise his basic positions. “We have no intention to change,” said Mr. Taraghi. “Our ideology will remain the same. Iran will remain the same even after possible talks.”
尽管外界对伊朗新近发出的温和论调给予极大关注，但伊朗的圈内人士表示，最高领袖绝不会在基本立场上妥协。“我们无意改变，”塔拉吉说。“我们的意识形态将一如既往。伊朗也将一如既往，即使在可能开展的谈判之后也是如此。”
By this he meant that Iran would never recognize the state of Israel or stop supporting Palestinian groups fighting what it calls “the Zionist entity.” In nuclear matters, it means accepting nothing less than full recognition of what Iran says is its “right” to a nuclear program under its own control. Support for the Syrian government will continue, as will Iran’s overall confrontational stance toward the West.
他的意思是，伊朗绝不会承认以色列国，也绝不会停止支持对抗它所称的“犹太复国主义实体”的巴勒斯坦组织。在核问题上，这意味着伊朗只能接受一种结果，那就是国际社会全面承认伊朗“有权”拥有并控制自己的核计划。对叙利亚政府的支持也将持续下去，伊朗对西方的整体对抗姿态也将如此。
The change in Iran’s diplomatic language is a new tactic to be explored, Mr. Taraghi and others said. Iran’s supreme leader is mainly interested to see whether the United States has shifted its position and is ready to recognize Iran as a main power in the Middle East.
塔拉吉等人表示，伊朗外交语汇的调整是一种有待探索的新战术。最高领袖的主要兴趣在于，看美国是否已改变立场，是否准备承认伊朗是中东的主要大国。
Ayatollah Khamenei, who has often emphasized that he is “a revolutionary, not a diplomat,” also urged the president and his team never to forget the nature of their rivals. “It is good and necessary to have flexible approaches sometimes and somewhere,” he said, citing a theory he called “heroic leniency,” in which “you can show leniency to the rival, while never forgetting his goals.”
哈梅内伊经常强调，他是“革命者，不是外交官”。他还敦促鲁哈尼及其团队永远不要忘记对手的本性。“有时候，在有些地方采用灵活的方式是好的，也是有必要的，”他说。他援引了他称为“英勇的宽容”的理念，即，“你可以向对手展现宽容，同时绝不忘记他的目的。”
While many advocates of détente have interpreted this remark as illustrating Ayatollah Khamenei’s readiness to compromise, his close supporters say it means that he sees America as an eternal enemy that needs to be approached with different tactics at different times.
尽管许多倡导缓和的人士将此言解读为哈梅内伊有意妥协，但与他关系密切的一些支持者称，这话的涵义是，他将美国视为永远的敌人，只是有必要在不同时期采用不同的战术来应对。
It was a surprise when Iran’s hard-liners, who had held sway for eight years in tandem with Ayatollah Khamenei, lost to Mr. Rouhani in the presidential elections in June. They and the institutions they control — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, the nationwide Friday Prayer venues, the judiciary and the state broadcaster — have all been ordered by Ayatollah Khamenei not to sabotage Mr. Rouhani’s effort with criticism or controversial remarks.
跟哈梅内伊搭档执掌伊朗八年的强硬派在今年6月的总统选举中不敌鲁哈尼，令人意外。哈梅内伊还责令强硬派及其控制的所有机构——伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)，全国各地的主麻日聚礼(Friday Prayer)场所，司法机关和官方广播电视台——不得用批评或有争议的言论来破坏鲁哈尼的努力。
This is not to say that the hard-liners are out of power, nor are they excluded from deciding Mr. Rouhani’s mandate for negotiations. “We have coordinated our policies in order to talk with a single voice, which for now is the government’s voice,” Mr. Mousavi said.
这并不是说强硬派已经失势，也不是说他们不能参与决定鲁哈尼的谈判权限。“我们已经协调了各方的方针，以便用一个声音投入谈判，目前这便是政府的声音。”穆萨维说。
Iran’s establishment now agrees across the board that Mr. Rouhani’s diplomatic offensive of reaching out to the world can reinvigorate the stalled talks over Iran’s nuclear program and potentially reduce sanctions, analysts say.
分析人士称，伊朗统治阶层现在一致认为，鲁哈尼发起的外交攻势有望重新激活陷入僵局的伊朗核计划谈判，最终有可能减少制裁。
“This is about convincing the U.S. that the Islamic republic is a big dam against their policies in the region,” Mr. Taraghi said. “They need to realize the huge price they are paying for their hegemonic policies in the Middle East. It is better for them to find common ground with us.”
“关键是让美国相信，对于美国在该地区的政策来说，伊朗伊斯兰共和国是一道巨大的障碍，” 塔拉吉说，“美国需要认识到，他们在中东推行的霸权政策正给他们带来高昂代价。他们最好找到与我们之间的共同点。”
That does not mean, however, that the two traditional enemies will become fast friends overnight.
但是，这并不意味着两个宿敌一夜之间就能化敌为友。
“Whatever happens,” Mr. Taraghi said, “don’t expect a U.S. embassy to open up in Tehran any time soon.”
“无论怎样，” 塔拉吉说，“不要指望美国很快会在德黑兰设立大使馆。”