With all the debate brewing over the origins of Harper Lee’s novel “Go Set a Watchman,” the biggest bombshell turned out to be an explosive plot twist that no one saw coming.
围绕着哈珀·李(Harper Lee)的小说《设立守望者》(Go Set a Watchman)的起源有着种种争议，然而最重磅的炸弹还要算是书中一个爆炸性的大反转，完全没有人能够预料。
Atticus Finch — the crusading lawyer of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” whose principled fight against racism and inequality inspired generations of readers — is depicted in “Watchman” as an aging racist who has attended a Ku Klux Klan meeting, holds negative views about African-Americans and denounces desegregation efforts. “Do you want Negroes by the carload in our schools and churches and theaters? Do you want them in our world?” Atticus asks his daughter, Jean Louise (the adult Scout), in “Watchman.”
《杀死一只知更鸟》(To Kill a Mockingbird)中的阿蒂克斯·芬奇(Atticus Finch)是一位为正义而战的律师，他那充满原则，反对种族主义与不平等的斗争激励着一代代读者，然而在《设立守望者》中，他却被描述为一个上了年纪的种族主义者，还参加3K党集会，对非裔美国人发表负面看法，公然指责废除种族隔离制度的努力。“你希望一车一车的黑人走进我们的学校、教堂和剧场吗？你希望他们生活在我们的世界里吗？”在《设立守望者》中，阿蒂克斯这样问自己的女儿简·露易丝（Jean Louise，即成年后的斯库特[Scout]）。
The revelation will probably alter readers’ views of “Mockingbird,” a beloved book that has sold more than 40 million copies globally and has become a staple of high school curriculums. It could also reshape Ms. Lee’s legacy, which until now has hinged entirely on the outsize success of her only novel, published 55 years ago.
这个意外的描写可能会改变读者对《杀死一只知更鸟》的观感，这本书深深受人喜爱，在全球卖出了四千多万册，是中学课程中的重要读物。《设立守望者》也可能重塑李的文学遗产，迄今为止，她仍被视为靠着55年前出版的生平唯一一本小说便取得极大成功的作家。
It is also certain to spur debate about the character of Atticus and his moral integrity in “Mockingbird,” which made him a cultural icon whose influence transcended literature, inspiring generations of lawyers, teachers and social workers.
这肯定也会引发人们讨论《杀死一只知更鸟》里的阿蒂克斯这个角色和他的道德情操，这本书令他成为一个文化符号，他的影响超越了文学的范畴，激励着一代代律师、教师与社会工作者们。
“Whether you’ve read the novel or seen the film, there’s this image you have of Atticus as a hero, and this brings him down a peg,” said Adam Bergstein, an English teacher in Queens whose 10th- and 11-grade students read “Mockingbird.” “How do you take this guy who everybody looked up to for the last 50-plus years, and now he’s a more flawed individual?”
“不管你看的是小说还是电影，都会觉得阿蒂克斯是个英雄，新书里却把他推下了神坛，”皇后区的英语教师亚当·伯格斯坦(Adam Bergstein)说，他教的10年级与11年级的学生们都要读《杀死一只知更鸟》。“现在你要怎样看待这个让所有人敬仰了50多年的人？他现在是一个缺点很多的普通人了。”
In this version, Atticus is 72 years old, suffering from arthritis and stubbornly resistant to social change. He stands in sharp contrast to the gentle scholar in “Mockingbird,” who tells Scout, when explaining why he has gone out on a limb to defend a black man, that “I do my best to love everybody.”
在新书里，阿蒂克斯已经72岁了，身患关节炎，顽固地抵抗着社会的变迁。在《杀死一只知更鸟里》，他曾向斯库特解释自己何以孤军奋战，为一个黑人辩护，“我努力去爱每一个人”，而新书中的阿蒂克斯和当年那个温和的学者相去甚远。
In “Watchman,” which comes out Tuesday, Atticus chides Scout for her idealistic views about racial equality: “The Negroes down here are still in their childhood as a people.”
《设立守望者》于周二发行，书中阿蒂克斯斥责斯库特对种族平等怀有理想主义的观点：“这儿的黑鬼们还处在人类发展的童年阶段。”
After the initial shock, some writers and literary critics see added value in a more complex, and flawed, version of Atticus. If “Mockingbird” sugarcoats racial divisions by depicting a white man as the model for justice in an unjust world, then “Watchman” may be like bitter medicine that more accurately reflects the times.
经历了最初的震撼，有些作家和文学评论家开始看到这个更复杂、有更多缺点的阿蒂克斯身上的价值。《杀死一只知更鸟》把一个白人男子树为不公正世界里公正的典范，从而为种族鸿沟涂上了一层糖衣；而《设立守望者》或许更像是一剂苦口良药，更精确地反映了那个时代。
“If Atticus Finch is not quite the plaster saint that he is in ‘To Kill a Mockingbird,’ there could be something rich and fascinating about that,” said Thomas Mallon, a novelist and critic, who had read only the published excerpt from “Watchman.” “The moral certainties in ‘To Kill a Mockingbird’ are apparent from the first page, and in that sense, I don’t think it’s a great novel that deals with the tormenting questions of race in America, but maybe this new one is, if it’s more nuanced.”
“如果阿蒂克斯不完全是《杀死一只知更鸟》里那个无瑕的圣人，这里面可能有某些丰富而迷人的东西，”小说家兼文学评论家托马斯·玛伦(Thomas Mallon)读了《设立守望者》公开发表的节选后说。“《杀死一只知更鸟》里的道德确定性从第一页开始就显示出来，从这个角度而言，我觉得它并不是一部探讨美国令人痛苦的种族问题的伟大小说，但是如果新的这本书中有更加细微的不同，那么它或许会是一部伟大的小说呢。”
Racism, inequality and the persecution of minorities in the United States have again surfaced in the national conversation. Last week, the South Carolina legislature took down the Confederate battle flag from its statehouse grounds after days of emotional debate. Protests have erupted around the country after police shootings of unarmed black men.
如今，美国的种族主义、不平等，乃至对少数族裔的迫害再一次成为全国性话题。上个星期，南卡罗来纳州的立法机构经历了数日充满感情的激辩，终于撤下了州议会里南北战争中南部联盟的战旗。几起警察射杀手未携武器的黑人男子事件激发起全国各地的抗议声浪。
“Watchman,” which was completed in 1957, is landing in the middle of the debate, like a literary artifact out of a time capsule from a period when the country was divided over many of the same issues.
1957年完稿的《设立守望者》就在这种讨论进行之际浮现出来，如同一件从时空胶囊中取出的文学艺术品，来自那个全国因许多起同样的问题而四分五裂的时代。
“We could turn this into a plus in our national conversation about racism and the Confederate flag. It turns out that Atticus is no saint, as none of us are, but a man with prejudices,” said Charles J. Shields, author of “Mockingbird: A Portrait of Harper Lee.”
“我们可以把这本书加入到全国对种族主义与南部联盟旗帜的讨论中去。现在阿蒂克斯也不再是圣人，和我们大家一样，也只是一个有偏见的人，”查尔斯·J·希尔兹(Charles J. Shields)说，他著有《知更鸟：哈珀·李的肖像》(Mockingbird: A Portrait of Harper Lee)一书。
It is unclear why Ms. Lee set aside “Watchman” — a blunt and unsparing look at a young woman’s disillusionment at the racism that permeates her hometown and her family — to write “Mockingbird,” a more palatable coming-of-age tale. Narrated by a precocious, observant child, “Mockingbird” features characters who fall neatly into camps of heroes and villains. Gregory Peck’s portrayal of Atticus in the 1962 film is an enduring symbol of a righteous lawyer and model parent.
《设立守望者》讲述了一个年轻女人对家乡与家庭中充斥的种族主义感到幻灭，对之进行了直率而毫不留情的审视，李将它束之高阁，转而去写《杀死一只知更鸟》，一个更易接受的成长故事，这其中的原因至今尚不分明。《杀死一只知更鸟》由一个早熟、敏锐的孩子叙述，书中的人物鲜明地分成了好人和坏人两大阵营。格里高利·派克(Gregory Peck)在1962年的同名电影中演绎的阿蒂克斯成为好律师与模范家长的象征，经久不衰。
Was the original manuscript too politically explosive for the period — too sharp a reflection of the civil rights battles brewing at the time? Since Ms. Lee’s original editor, Tay Hohoff, died in 1974, and Ms. Lee has shunned interviews for decades, the question will probably remain unanswered, though there no doubt will be countless term papers and scholarly essays devoted to the subject for years to come.
在那个年代，《设立守望者》的初稿是不是在政治上太敏感了，是不是过于尖锐地反映了当时正在酝酿的民权运动？李最初的编辑塔伊·霍霍夫(Tay Hohoff)于1974年去世，李拒绝接受采访也已经有几十年了，这个问题或许永远不会再有答案。不过，毫无疑问，未来的岁月里，会有无数毕业论文和学术论文试图探讨这个问题。
“ ‘Go Set a Watchman’ is much more forcefully about civil rights. It’s much more political, but that tells us what was in front of Harper Lee’s brain at the time,” said Mary McDonagh Murphy, a filmmaker who recently released a new version of “Hey, Boo,” her documentary about Harper Lee. When she submitted the novel nearly 60 years ago, Ms. Lee was told to rewrite the book from young Scout’s perspective and to turn it into a coming-of-age story. “My editor, who was taken by the flashbacks to Scout’s childhood, persuaded me to write a novel from the point of view of the young Scout,” Ms. Lee said in a statement. “I was a first-time writer, so I did as I was told,” Ms. Lee said in a statement that was released by her publisher in February.
“《设立守望者》更强有力地反映了民权运动，它要政治得多，但是它能告诉我们哈珀·李当时在思考什么，”制片人玛丽·麦克唐纳·墨菲(Mary McDonagh Murphy)说，她最近刚刚发行了自己拍的关于哈珀·李的纪录片《嘿，布》(Hey, Boo)的新版。60年前，李把这部小说交出去的时候，出版社要她从小斯库特的角度重写这本书，把它变成一个成长故事。“我的编辑喜欢斯库特童年时期的闪回，劝我从小斯库特的角度写一本小说，”李在一份声明中说。“我当时是初出茅庐的新作家，所以就照做了，”李在2月份通过出版商发表的一份声明中说。
Ms. Lee wrote “Watchman” when, like Jean Louise, she was living in New York and occasionally traveling home to Alabama to visit her aging father, the lawyer A. C. Lee, who is commonly cited as the model for Atticus in “Mockingbird.” In letters she wrote at the time to a friend in New York, she describes feeling unmoored by his physical decline and impending death (“I found myself staring at his handsome old face, and a sudden wave of panic flashed through me”).
李创作《设立守望者》的时候，和简·露易丝一样，住在纽约，偶尔回阿拉巴马的家乡探望年老的父亲——律师A·C·李(A. C. Lee)，人们通常认为他是《杀死一只知更鸟》中阿蒂克斯的原型。那段时间，李在写给纽约一位友人的信中，描述自己看到父亲身体衰弱，大限临头，不由觉得心情烦乱。“我望着他那张英俊苍老的面孔，只觉得一阵恐慌流过身体。”
She also recounts feeling like an outsider in her hometown because of her stance on civil rights: “I don’t trust myself to keep my mouth shut if I feel moved to express myself, thereon it will get out all over Monroeville that I am a member of the N.A.A.C.P., which, God forbid. They already suspect this to be a fact anyway.”
她还详细描述了自己在家乡却有外来者的感受，只是因为她在民权运动中持有的立场：“如果我有冲动表达自己，就很难做到闭紧嘴巴，然后整个门罗村都会知道我是美国全国有色人种协进会(N.A.A.C.P.)的成员，但愿这种事不要发生。他们已经在猜疑了。”
While A. C. Lee was moderate by the standards of the times, he supported states’ rights and held segregationist views, according to Mr. Shields. Later, after the publication of “Mockingbird” in 1960, his views softened, and he started campaigning for redistricting in the county to protect disenfranchised African-American voters, Mr. Shields said.
根据希尔兹的说法，以当时的标准而言，A·C·李的立场算得上中立，他支持各州的权利，支持种族隔离的观点。后来，希尔兹说，《杀死一只知更鸟》于1960年出版后，他的观点软化下来，开始发起宣传，支持在县里重新划分选取，保护被剥夺公民权利的非裔美国人选民。
As the first reviews of the novel were published on Friday, some “Mockingbird” fans were so disheartened by the revelation that they said they were reluctant to read the new book.
周五，关于这部新小说已经有了第一批书评，有些《杀死一只知更鸟》的书迷为阿蒂克斯的事情而心碎，以至于不愿意读这本新书。
“It feels very personal to a lot of us, especially so in Alabama,” said Jamie Harding, 54, who lives in Birmingham, Ala. “We grew up looking up to this character, and a lot of my friends are saying, ‘I’m not reading it, I want Atticus to remain the Atticus that I adore.’ ”
“我们很多人对它怀着深深的私人感情，特别是在阿拉巴马，”54岁，现居阿拉巴马州伯明翰市的杰米·哈汀(Jamie Harding)说。“我们长大成人期间都崇敬着这个角色，我有很多朋友都说，‘我不会读它，我希望阿蒂克斯还是我崇拜的那个阿蒂克斯。’”
Tara Xanthopoulos, who teaches high school English in Westchester County, N.Y., said that when she first read the reviews of the book, she felt queasy. “This has been my favorite book of my whole life, from when I was a student to being a teacher,” she said. “It’s sad to think that Atticus’s character is going to be tarnished.”
在纽约州韦斯特切斯特郡中学教英语的泰拉·安索普洛斯(Tara Xanthopoulos)说，当她第一次读到这本书的书评时，觉得一阵恶心。“《杀死一只知更鸟》是我这辈子最喜欢的一本书，从上学时一直到当老师以后一直都是，”她说，“一想起阿蒂克斯这个角色遭到玷污就让人伤心。”
Ms. Lee’s publisher, HarperCollins, said there was never a discussion of toning down Atticus’s racist remarks to preserve his moral image.
李的出版社哈珀·科林斯(HarperCollins)说，他们从未考虑过把阿蒂克斯的种族主义言论做一些温和处理，好维护他的道德形象。
“Harper Lee wanted to have the novel published exactly as it was written, without editorial intervention,” Jonathan Burnham, the publisher of the HarperCollins imprint Harper, wrote in an email message. “By confronting these challenging and complex issues at the height of the civil rights movement, the young Harper Lee demonstrated an honesty and bravery that makes this work both a powerful document of its time and a compelling piece of literature.”
“哈珀·李希望这本小说照原样出版，不做任何编辑加工，” 哈珀·科林斯的出版商乔纳森·伯恩汉姆(Jonathan Burnham)在电子邮件中写道。“面对民权运动高潮时期的挑战与种种复杂问题，年轻的哈珀·李以诚实和勇气写出这本书，使它成为时代的有力纪录，以及一部精彩的文学作品。”
Karla FC Holloway, a professor of English and law at Duke University who teaches a class on law, race and literature, said that the new version of Atticus may lead people to reread “Mockingbird” more closely. “It will force an interesting conversation about — if this is really Atticus — what have our own desires done to the character, and what is the literary truth?” Ms. Holloway said. “This is who we want to be as a country, but this is not who Atticus was.”
杜克大学的英语与法律教授卡拉·FC·霍洛韦(Karla FC Holloway)在学校里开设了一门课，是关于法律、种族与文学的，他说，这个新版本的阿蒂克斯会让人们更仔细地阅读《杀死一只知更鸟》。“它也会引发出有趣的讨论——这是真正的阿蒂克斯吗——我们自己的愿望是怎样参与塑造了这个人物，文学的真实又是什么？”霍洛韦说。“这是我们全国所有人都希望成为的样子，但并不是真正的阿蒂克斯。”