Against the backdrop of today’s petty politics, the stories of great political leaders like Mohandas K. Gandhi or Nelson Mandela look like fairy tales. Let us recount the adventures of another of these giants, Vaclav Havel, the Czech dissident and politician, on the second anniversary of his death.
在今天的“小政治”背景下，甘地和曼德拉这些伟大政治领袖的故事看上去犹如童话。现在是另一位巨人、捷克不同政见者和政治家瓦茨拉夫·哈维尔(Vaclav Havel)去世两周年之际，让我们来讲讲他的不凡经历。
The story does have its fairy-tale elements. Once upon a time, there was a great and ancient city with a great and ancient castle, and in that castle there lived a great philosopher-king. This ruler succeeded where philosophers since Plato had failed — that is, in building a state. His country’s affluence matched that of the industrious nations to the West, the only such country among the otherwise impoverished Slavic lands.
这个故事确实有它的童话元素。很久很久以前，在一个辉煌而古老的城市，有一座辉煌而古老的城堡，里面住着一位伟大的哲学家国王。自柏拉图以来，所有哲学家都落败的一件事，这位统治者却成功了：他建立了一个国家。这个国家的富裕程度，可以和西方勤劳民族所在的国家媲美；在贫困的斯拉夫区域，它是唯一可以做到这一点的国家。
This land, created in 1918, was Czechoslovakia, the city was Prague and its philosopher-king was named Tomas Masaryk. His country was among the very few not to fall under the spell of authoritarianism in the 1930s. His grateful people called him Daddy.
这个创建于1918年的国家，就是捷克斯洛伐克，而这座城市，就是布拉格，它的哲学家国王名为托马斯·马萨里克(Tomas Masaryk)。捷克斯洛伐克是极少数没有在20世纪30年代被权威主义蛊惑的国家之一，对马萨里克感恩戴德的人们尊称他为“国父”。
Many years later, this wonderful land would become the subject of yet another fairy tale. After defeating the dark forces of Communism, a humble sage, Vaclav Havel, found himself its leader, ensconced in Hradcany Castle, in 1990.
很多年后，这片神奇的土地上又发生了另一个童话故事。击败共产主义的黑暗势力后，谦逊的哲人瓦茨拉夫·哈维尔在1990年成为了这个国家的领袖，住进了捷克的权力中心赫拉德恰尼城堡。
He described his trajectory from criminal to four-term president in his memoirs, comparing it to the stories of Honza, a character common in many Czech fairy tales: “Little Honza — although everyone tells him it’s hopeless — beats his head against the wall for so long that the wall eventually collapses and he becomes king and rules and rules and rules for 13 long years.”
在回忆录中，哈维尔描述了自己从罪犯到四任总统的生活轨迹，并将它与洪扎(Honza)的故事相提并论，后者是很多捷克童话中的一个常见角色：“小洪扎——虽然每个人都告诉他毫无希望——用头撞墙撞了这么久，墙壁最终坍塌了，他成了国王，统治国家13年之久。”
Though usually very modest, Havel understood what his example meant for others: “Why shouldn’t such a story with such a happy ending be exalted? Might it not be a source of hope for others who have not yet experienced the fall of their wall?” Those watching today’s news will immediately think of the brave Ukrainians in Kiev’s Euromaidan, or of Russian political activists.
虽然哈维尔通常十分谦虚，但他明白了自己的例子对其他人的意义：“为什么这样一个结局幸福的故事不应该被宣扬呢？对于那些还没有经历过墙壁倒塌的人来说，这难道不是一个希望的源泉？”看了当前时事新闻的人，立刻就会联想到在基辅进行反政府示威活动的勇敢的乌克兰人，或者联想到俄罗斯的政治活动家。
The biographies of dissidents offer invaluable solace to current and future nonconformists, who, without much hope of success, follow the path outlined by their convictions. It is different with dissidents’ manifestoes, which, once the fight is over, quickly reach their expiration date and are buried in the historical archive. Havel remains one of the very few exceptions.
现在和未来的新教徒们，沿着自己的信念勾勒出来的路径前行，成功的希望并不大，而异见者的传记为他们提供了宝贵的慰藉。它与异见者的宣言不同，因为一旦战斗结束，后者就迅速到了过期之日，被埋葬在历史的档案中。在这个方面，哈维尔仍然属于极少数的例外。
As Adam Michnik, the Polish anti-Communist activist, recently admitted, “I think that for my dissident friends — and for me, too — the dissident philosophy of life was enough. It was not enough for Havel.”
正如波兰反共产主义活动家亚当·米奇尼克(Adam Michnik)最近所说，“我认为，对于我的异见者朋友们来说——以及对我来说——仅有异见哲学是不够的。对哈维尔来说是不够的。”
Former dissidents entered the new era with the naïveté of children on their first trip to the toy store; out of everything that was Western, the invisible hand of the market proved most alluring. But Havel was different, because he did not simply look at Communism or capitalism from the perspective of the other. He considered both systems to be two versions of the same crisis of civilization.
带着类似于孩子们第一次去玩具店的那种天真，以前的异见者进入了新时代；事实证明，在西方的所有东西中，市场的无形之手是最诱人的。但哈维尔不一样，因为他没有简单地把共产主义和资本主义对立起来。在他看来，这两个制度是同一场文明危机的两个版本。
In what is perhaps the most important manifesto of anti-Communist dissent, his 1978 “Power of the Powerless,” Havel expresses this very clearly. Modern democratic societies offered “no fundamental opposition to the automatism of technological civilization and the industrial-consumer society, for they, too, are being dragged helplessly along by it.”
在自己1978年的著作《无权者的权力》(Power of the Powerless)中，哈维尔非常清晰地表达了这种观点，该书也许是反共产主义异见人士最重要的宣言。现代民主社会“没有给技术文明和工业消费社会的无意识行为提供根本的牵制，因为，他们也在被这种行为无助地牵着走”。
These are not the views of a naïve idealist who came to terms with “reality” as soon as he assumed the presidency, something confirmed by Havel’s 2006 autobiography, “Briefly, Please.”
哈维尔在他2006年的自传《请简短些》(Briefly, Please)里确认，他自己刚刚当上总统，就在“现实”面前屈服了，所以，这些绝不是天真的理想主义者的观点。
He chose the title as a sign of opposition to the stupidity of the commercialized media, which convert everything into mindless platitudes for rapid transmission. The book’s American publisher inadvertently proved his point by changing its title to something more marketable and banal, while also confirming the fairy-tale nature of his story: “To the Castle and Back.”
他之所以选择这个书名，是要把它当成自己反抗商业化媒体蠢行的一个标志，后者为了追求迅速的传播效应，把所有出版物都转换成了毫无头脑的陈词滥调。这本书的美国出版商不经意地印证了哈维尔的观点，他们把书名改成了更畅销、更平庸的《布拉格城堡的一个来回》(To the Castle and Back），此举还同时确认了，书中的故事在本质上是一个童话。
In post-Communist countries, newborn capitalists’ faith in capitalism was so ardent that even members of the Chicago school of economics, who came rushing in as advisers on how to move to free markets almost overnight, seemed like careful idealists, while John Maynard Keynes was shunned as practically a Communist.
在后社会主义国家中，新诞生的资本家对资本主义的信仰如此狂热，就连芝加哥经济学派(Chicago school of economics)的成员，看似都像是小心谨慎的理想主义者，这些人匆忙赶来充当顾问，建议捷克该如何在几近一夜的时间里，跨入自由市场阶段，与此同时，约翰·梅纳德·凯恩斯(John Maynard Keynes)几乎被避之不及地当成了一名共产主义者。
But Havel saw a new danger. “I am also an opponent of market fundamentalism and dogmatism, for which the snide brigade” — his term for “journalists who sneered ironically at everything they felt was not capitalistic enough” — “have branded me a left winger.”
然而，哈维尔看到了新的危险。“我还是市场原教旨主义和教条主义的反对者，有鉴于此，挖苦大军”已经把我归为左翼人士。“挖苦大军”是哈维尔的专用词，指的是“对觉得不够资本主义的所有东西都予以挖苦的记者们”。
Havel noted the world’s addiction to the drug of short-term profit, which gives pleasure in the moment, but in the long run becomes a threat to development. He noted the simulated pluralism of both opinions and goods. “The pressure toward soulless uniformity that is perceptible everywhere today — despite the seemingly endless array of choices among a seemingly infinite array of products pretending to be different from one another — poses a great threat to all forms of uniqueness.”
哈维尔指出，全球都陷入了对短期利润这个毒品的毒瘾中，它提供了一时的愉悦，但在长期内却对发展构成了威胁。他指出，意见和货品都存在伪造出来的多元化表象。“迫切地获得毫无灵魂的统一性，对所有形式的独特性构成了巨大的威胁，今天，这种统一性随处可见，尽管你可以在假装各不相同的、看似无穷无尽的种种产品中，做出似乎无穷无尽的各种选择。”
The same can be found in politics, so he postulated seeking an alternative to the shopworn and very technocratic political parties through “an effort to rid them of their hidden, subtle, and omnipresent power, which itself is a denial of the principles of representative democracy.”
在政治上也能发现类似的现象，所以，他认定有必要寻找一个替代物，来替代陈腐的、极端技术官僚化的政党，手段是“采取措施去除被他们隐藏的、微妙的、无处不在的权力”，这种权力本身就背离了代议民主原则。
Havel took seriously what many veteran dissidents considered a waste of time: the new social movements arising in the post-Communist Eastern Europe, like feminism or the global justice movement. He was taken with environmentalism as early as the 1970s, and he saw urban issues as a political priority long before they became a matter of course for the rest of us.
哈维尔相当重视被许多老牌异见人士认为纯属浪费时间的运动，即在后社会主义东欧国家兴起的新社会运动，比如女权主义运动、或者全球司法运动。早在上世纪70年代，他就对环保主义产生了兴趣，远在城市问题变成所有人都无从逃避的问题之前，他就把它当成了优先的政治议题。
Every system is based on universal conformism, meaning we are all both victims and agents. We can either remain solitary and accept the imperfect reality that confronts us, or challenge it together. Havel longed for an “existential revolution,” just as Tomas Masaryk before him longed for a “revolution of hearts and minds.” Both were similarly distrustful of institutions and trusting in the power of the powerless. Havel demonstrated that this power no longer exists in fairy tales alone.
每个体制都是以无处不在的顺从思维为基础的，它意味着我们都是牺牲者，也都是执行者。我们可以不闻不问，接受我们面前不完美的现实，也可以一同挑战它。哈维尔向往一场“存在主义的革命”，就像在他之前的托马斯·马萨里克(Tomas Masaryk)向往“心灵和思想的革命”一样。他们都同样地不信任制度，却信任无权者的力量。哈维尔已表明，这种力量不再只是存在于童话中。