UNITED NATIONS — Descending on New York this week in a Shiite cleric’s traditional fine wool robes, Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, turned himself into a high-speed salesman offering a flurry of speeches, tweets, televised interviews and carefully curated private meetings.
联合国——身着什叶派(Shiite)神职人员的传统细羊毛长袍，伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)本周降临纽约，在一连串旋风般的演讲、Twitter帖子、电视访问及精心策划的非公开会议中，把自己变身为推销好手。
On Tuesday, he capped his speech to the United Nations General Assembly with a nod to the Torah and the Psalms, which elicited applause and then, the slightest hint of a smile. That day he also hosted a clutch of media executives as his chief of staff did what previously would have been unthinkable, meeting with a dozen influential American business leaders.
本周二，他在联合国大会发言的结尾提到了《摩西五经》(Torah)和《圣经诗篇》(Psalms)，引发了掌声，随后他微微一笑。当天，他还招待了一群媒体高管。与此同时，他的幕僚长与十几位有影响力的美国商届领袖会面，这样的安排以前根本无法想象。
Over salmon kebabs in his hotel on Wednesday evening, he bluntly told a gathering of former United States diplomats and Iran scholars that he would never give up his country’s right to enrich uranium, but would swiftly resolve its nuclear standoff with the West. The next day, he took aim at Israel’s nuclear arsenal in a public speech in the morning, and at night wooed his country’s influential, often skeptical diaspora with a banquet for 800.
周三傍晚，在酒店举办的烤三文鱼晚宴上，鲁哈尼直截了当地告诉一群美国前任外交官和伊朗问题学者，他绝不会放弃本国浓缩铀的权利，但愿意迅速解决与西方在核问题上的对峙。第二天，在早晨进行的公开演讲中，他把矛头对准了以色列的核武器；在晚间举办的800人宴会上，他又与伊朗颇具影响力、但往往心存疑虑的流亡犹太人拉近关系。
But amid the fervent diplomatic theater, intended to end Iran’s isolation, it was at times difficult to tell whether Mr. Rouhani was a genuinely transformative Iranian leader, as his cabinet insisted, or a more polished avatar of the past, as his critics claimed.
不过，在这场为结束伊朗孤立局面而展开的热火朝天的外交表演中，时而会很难看清鲁哈尼的真面目。他到底是像伊朗内阁所坚称的，是一位真正有变革能力的伊朗领袖？还是如批评人士所言，无非是老观念粉饰一新的化身？
In television interviews and public addresses throughout the week, he repeatedly sought to cast himself as a moderate ready to do business with the West. But it was also clear that whatever he said here was closely, instantly dissected at home, raising uncertainty over whether he could truly deliver a compromise with the West, if that is what he sought.
在本周进行的多次电视访问和公开演讲中，他不断努力把自己塑造成已做好准备与西方打交道的温和派。但同样明确的是，伊朗国内会立刻对他所说的一切进行解构。这又引发了他能否实现与西方妥协的不确定性，即使他真有此意。
And so he condemned the Nazis in a TV interview, but quickly hedged by saying he was not a historian. And even as he called for “time bound” talks to resolve the nuclear standoff, he skipped a lunch at which he might have had the chance to meet President Obama and shake his hand. Even charmed diplomats pointed out that he offered no concrete proposals, while also noting that he had received nothing concrete from Western officials to take back to his constituents at home.
鲁哈尼还在一次电视访谈中谴责了纳粹，但旋即以他并非历史学家的说辞来缓和。虽然他呼吁进行“有时限”的会谈以解决核对峙，但却没有出席或许有机会与奥巴马总统碰面并进行握手的一次午餐会。就连那些折服于他的魅力的外交官也指出，他并没有任何实质性的提议，尽管他们同时表示，他也没有从西方官员那里得到任何实质性的东西，以便向国内选民交差。
Those who watched him closest this week describe Mr. Rouhani as serious, controlled and single-mindedly focused on message. He seemed intent to convey that he was prepared to take concrete steps to normalize relations with the West, that he was reasonable and that he enjoyed the backing of the street and his country’s religious establishment. He also seemed to be in somewhat of a rush, even while saying events might have been moving too fast.
本周密切关注鲁哈尼一举一动的人士把他描绘为严肃、克制，一心扑在讯息传达上。外界看来，他意在表达，自己已准备好实施具体步骤，使伊朗与西方的关系正常化；他同时还想表明，他是个讲道理的人，而且享有来自伊朗民众和宗教权力集团的支持。他看上去有点着急，却又表示活动可能进行得快了些。
“He did not come to New York to negotiate with speeches or throw in the towel and surrender. He came to New York to start negotiations,” said Vali Nasr, dean of the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. “He is very clever, very pragmatic, but he’s also now showing himself to be bold, a risk-taker. He is taking the biggest risk any Iranian has in reaching out to the West.”
“他来到纽约不是为了通过演讲来进行谈判，或者是来拱手认输。他来到这里是为了开启谈判，”约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University)院长瓦利·纳斯尔(Vali Nasr)表示，“他非常聪明、非常务实，他现在同时也在展示，他无畏且敢于承担风险。主动与西方接触让他承担了伊朗领导人可能遇到的最大风险。”
The contrast with his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, could not be more stark. Mr. Ahmadinejad used his podium at the General Assembly to blast Israel, deny the Holocaust and dangle the notion that Sept. 11 was the handiwork of Americans. Mr. Rouhani, in his public speeches, has mentioned Israel only once, calling on it to sign the Nonproliferation Treaty.
他和前任马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)有天壤之别。内贾德曾利用联合国大会的讲坛猛烈抨击以色列、否认纳粹大屠杀，并提及“9·11”由美国人一手策划。鲁哈尼则仅在公开演讲中提到以色列一次，号召该国签署《核不扩散条约》(Nonproliferation Treaty)。
All the same, he has insisted on Iran’s right to build what he insists is a civilian nuclear program. At a dinner for about 20 former diplomats and Iran scholars Tuesday night at the One U.N. New York, a hotel across the street from the United Nations building, one dinner guest recalled that Mr. Rouhani was bluntly asked: What is Iran doing and why is it doing it?
但和内贾德一样，他坚持认为，伊朗有权打造他所坚称的民用核计划。周二晚，在联合国总部对面的纽约千禧联合国酒店(One U.N. New York)，约20名前任外交官和伊朗问题学者出席了晚宴。一名与会嘉宾回忆到，有人直接问鲁哈尼：伊朗在干什么？为什么要这么做？
“His answer was very simple,” said the dinner guest, who could not be named because it was a confidential meeting. “We are enriching. We are doing it because it is our right.”
“他的回答很简单，”这名客人说道，“我们在进行核浓缩。我们之所以这么做，是因为这是我们的权利。”由于参加的是非公开会议，此人要求匿名。
The only time the usually unflappable Mr. Rouhani was mildly exercised, the first dinner guest said, was when he spoke of Israel’s complaints about Iran’s nuclear program. Mr. Rouhani, he recalled, sharply pointed out that Israel itself had nuclear weapons.
这名客人还称，通常波澜不惊的鲁哈尼仅有一次略显烦躁，即讲到以色列抱怨伊朗核计划的时候。他回想起，鲁哈尼尖锐地指出，以色列自身就拥有核武器。
The next morning, speaking at a meeting on disarmament, Mr. Rouhani called on Israel to give up its nuclear weapons.
第二天早上，在裁军问题会议上，鲁哈尼在讲话中呼吁以色列放弃核武器。
Remarks like that prompted some critics to say that Mr. Rouhani was simply a camouflaged version of Mr. Ahmadinejad, pressing the same aims. “Rouhani came here today to cheat the world, and unfortunately many people were willing to be cheated,” Israel’s minister of intelligence and internal affairs, Yuval Steinitz, said at a news conference Tuesday at the United Nations. 
这样的言论导致一些批评人士宣称，鲁哈尼只是个批了伪装的内贾德，两人推行的目标是一致的。以色列内务兼情报部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)在联合国周二举行的新闻发布会上表示，“鲁哈尼今天来到这里是为了欺骗全世界，但不幸的是，许多人乐意上当。”
“The main thing for me is that the substance is very similar to Ahmadinejad’s, but he says it in a much kinder and gentler way,” said Gary Samore, a former Obama adviser, and now the president of United Against Nuclear Iran. “That’s the definition of a charm offensive.”
“我看到的要点是，实质内容和内贾德非常相似，但他以一种更为友善而柔和的方式表达出来，”反对伊朗核计划联合会(United Against Nuclear Iran)会长、曾任奥巴马顾问的加里·萨莫雷(Gary Samore)说道，“这正是标准的魅力攻势。”
To foreigners, Mr. Rouhani may seem like something of a paradox. He wears the garb of a cleric, though with high-end dress shoes. He prefers to be called Dr. Rouhani, for his doctorate in law, rather than by his clerical title. His office has used Twitter to congratulate Iran’s women’s volleyball team and blast excerpts from his address at the General Assembly.
在外人眼中，鲁哈尼似乎充满矛盾。他身着神职人员的服装，却配了一双高档正装皮鞋。与他的宗教头衔相比，他更喜欢被称为鲁哈尼博士，因为他有法学博士学位。通过Twitter，他的办公室既会向伊朗女子排球队表示祝贺，又会抨击对他在联合国大会讲话断章取义的做法。
“He’s far from being a traditional Shia cleric,” said M. Hossein Hafezian, who worked with him for nearly 10 years at his Center for Strategic Research in Tehran. He described Mr. Rouhani as a political “insider” and a moderate, but one who has shunned being called “westernized or liberal, because that would be a curse.”
鲁哈尼领导德黑兰的战略研究中心(Center for Strategic Research)期间，M·侯赛因·哈菲兹安(M. Hossein Hafezian)曾与他共事近10年，他表示，“鲁哈尼绝非一个传统的什叶派神职人员。”他把鲁哈尼形容为一个政治“内行”，一个温和派，但不愿别人说他“西化、或是自由派，因为这是咒骂。”
Still, there are skeptics in Iran and the United States. “He has to demonstrate this is more than a charm offensive, that he means what he says, that if there’s a response he’s ready to be engaged,” said William H. Luers, a retired United States ambassador who now runs an advocacy group called The Iran Project.
然而在伊朗和美国，仍有人表示怀疑。威廉·H·鲁尔斯(William H. Luers)曾任美国驻外大使，如今管理着倡导组织伊朗项目(The Iran Project)。他说，“鲁哈尼必须证明：这不仅仅是魅力攻势，他说的话是真心实意的，如果得到回应，他就会准备好进行接触。”
The same applies to President Obama, he said. “It’s too far along,” Mr. Luers said. “We’ve said too much on both sides. There’s too much distrust to just say we had a good conversation.”
他表示，同理也适用于奥巴马总统。“一路下来，已经分歧太大，”鲁尔斯说，“我们双方都说了太多。有那么多的不信任，以至都无法表示我们进行了一次不错的谈话。”