LONDON — After months of speculation about whether the Obamas or the Trumps would be invited to the royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle next month the answer is finally in: neither.
伦敦——在关于奥巴马夫妇或特朗普夫妇是否会获邀参加哈里王子(Prince Harry)和梅根·马克尔(Meghan Markle)下月王室婚礼的猜测发酵数月后，答案终于揭晓：都不会。
Neatly sidestepping the issue, Kensington Palace released an opaque statement Tuesday saying that no politicians would be invited to the May 19 wedding at Windsor Castle, not even Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.
肯辛顿宫周二发布的一份措辞晦涩的声明巧妙地回避了这个问题，表示不会邀请任何政界人士参加5月19日在温莎城堡举行的婚礼，甚至包括英国首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)。
“It has been decided that an official list of political leaders — both U.K. and international — is not required for Prince Harry and Ms. Markle’s wedding,” Kensington Palace said in a statement. “Her Majesty’s Government was consulted on this decision, which was taken by The Royal Household.”
“已经决定，哈里王子和马克尔女士的婚礼无需准备一份英国和国际政界领导人的官方名单。”肯辛顿宫在一份声明中表示。 “王室作出的这一决定征询了女王陛下的政府的意见。”
The lack of “an official list” was interpreted by royals watchers to mean that no invitations would be issued to political leaders.
王室观察人士认为，没有“官方名单”意味着不会向政治领导人发出邀请。
In deciding to limit the attendees to close friends and family, the couple were characteristically keeping things low key and breaking with a long tradition of grand British royal weddings attended by world leaders and politicians.
把参加者限于亲密朋友和家人符合了这对夫妇一贯的低调作风，他们也打破了邀请世界领导人和政界人士参加英国王室盛大婚礼的悠久传统。
The question of the Obamas versus the Trumps was always a difficult one. It was widely believed that the Obamas had the inside track, after Prince Harry and Mr. Obama forged a friendship while attending the Invictus Games in Toronto last year.
在奥巴马与特朗普之间做选择一直是一个难题。外界普遍认为，在哈里王子与奥巴马去年参加多伦多“勇士不败“(Invictus)运动会而结下友谊之后，奥巴马获得了优势。
During the event, Prince Harry interviewed the former president for BBC Radio 4’s flagship program, “Today,” in Mr. Obama’s first international interview after leaving office.
在那次运动会期间，哈里王子在BBC第4台的招牌节目《今日》(Today)中采访了奥巴马，那是奥巴马离任后第一次接受国际媒体的采访。
Yet, British newspapers reported in December that the royal couple was under great diplomatic pressure to invite President Trump and the first lady, despite Ms. Markle being a vocal critic of Mr. Trump. Downing Street is eager to maintain good relations with the White House, with an eye to negotiating a bilateral trade agreement as quickly as possible after Britain leaves the European Union.
然而，英国报纸在12月份报道，尽管马克尔曾直言不讳地批评特朗普，这对王室夫妇承受着邀请特朗普总统和第一夫人参加婚礼的巨大外交压力。唐宁街渴望与白宫保持良好关系，并着眼于在英国退出欧盟后尽快就双边贸易协定进行谈判。
A Palace source, speaking on the condition of anonymity following protocol, said Prince Harry and Ms. Markle hoped to see the Obamas soon, but confirmed that they would not be attending the wedding.
一位有协议在身而要求匿名的宫廷消息人士透露，哈里王子和马克尔希望很快与奥巴马夫妇见面，但确认后者不会参加婚礼。
The Palace source said that 600 guests would be invited to the wedding ceremony, based on the size of St. George’s Chapel, and said that it is not necessary for the royal couple to invite world leaders and politicians to their wedding because Prince Harry is not a direct heir to the throne.
这名消息人士说，根据圣乔治教堂(St. George’s Chapel)的规模，将邀请600位嘉宾参加婚礼，并表示因为哈里王子不是王位的直接继承人，这对王室夫妇不需要邀请世界领导人和政客参加他们的婚礼。
He is fifth in line after his father, Prince Charles, his brother, Prince William, and his brother’s children.
哈里王子位于第五顺位，排在父亲查尔斯王子、哥哥威廉王子和威廉的孩子之后。
Some world leaders may still be invited to the wedding based on their personal relationship with the royal couple and not in their official capacity, the Palace source added.
这名宫廷消息人士补充说，一些世界领导人仍然可能会因为与这对王室夫妇的私人关系而获邀，以非官方的身份参加婚礼。
Prince Harry and Ms. Markle have also invited 1,200 members of the public to Windsor Castle to celebrate their marriage. On Monday they asked people to donate to charities instead of sending them wedding gifts.
哈里王子和马克尔还邀请了1200名民众前往温莎城堡庆祝他们的婚礼。周一，他们呼吁人们捐助慈善机构，而不是送给他们结婚礼物。
“The couple have chosen charities which represent a range of issues that they are passionate about, including sport for social change, women’s empowerment, conservation, the environment, homelessness, HIV and the Armed Forces,” Kensington Palace said in a statement.
肯辛顿宫在一份声明中表示：“这对夫妇选择了代表他们热衷的一系列问题的慈善机构，这些问题包括用体育促进社会变革、妇女赋权、环境，无家可归者、艾滋病和军人。”