Prince Harry, who is fifth in line to the British throne, has said that he does not think anyone in the royal family wants to be king or queen, but that the family of Queen Elizabeth II will carry on the succession out of a sense of duty.
在英国王位继承顺序中排第五的哈里王子(Prince Harry)表示，他觉得王室中没有哪位成员想当国王或女王，但伊丽莎白二世女王的家族会出于责任感将王位继承下去。
“We’re involved in modernizing the British monarchy,” the prince, 32, told Newsweek in an interview published online on Wednesday.
“我们在做将英国君主政体现代化的工作，”这位32岁的王子在接受《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)采访时说。该采访于周三在网上公布。
"We are not doing this for ourselves but for the greater good of the people,” he said. “Is there any one of the royal family who wants to be king or queen? I don’t think so, but we will carry out our duties at the right time.”
“我们这样做不是为了自己，而是为了民众更广泛的利益，”他说。“王室中有谁想当国王或女王吗？我觉得没有，但我们会在恰当的时间履行自己的责任。”
The prince also said that his personal priority was to lead an “ordinary” life. He credited his mother, Princess Diana, who died in a car crash in Paris in 1997, with inspiring him to do so.
哈里王子还表示，对他个人来说，最重要的是过“普通的”生活。他表示，那是因为母亲戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)鼓励他这样做。1997年，戴安娜王妃在巴黎因车祸去世。
“My mother took a huge part in showing me an ordinary life, including taking me and my brother to see homeless people,” Prince Harry was quoted as saying, referring to his elder brother, Prince William. “Thank goodness I’m not completely cut off from reality. People would be amazed by the ordinary life William and I live.”
“母亲积极向我展示普通人的生活，包括带我和哥哥去看望无家可归的人，”哈里王子在接受采访时说。他指的是哥哥威廉王子(Prince William)。“幸好我没有完全与现实隔绝。人们会为我和威廉过的普通生活感到惊讶。”
“I do my own shopping. Sometimes, when I come away from the meat counter in my local supermarket, I worry someone will snap me with their phone,” he added. “But I am determined to have a relatively normal life, and if I am lucky enough to have children, they can have one too. Even if I was king, I would do my own shopping.”
“我自己购物。有时，我到附近的超市购物，离开肉类柜台时，总担心有人用手机偷拍我，”他还说。“但我下定决心要过相对正常的生活，如果我幸运地有了孩子，他们也可以过正常的生活。就算我当了国王，我还是会自己去购物。”
Asked if he thought too much “ordinary” might make the royal family too accessible and take away its mystery, the prince said: “It’s a tricky balancing act. We don’t want to dilute the magic.”
采访者问他是否想过，太“普通”可能会令皇室显得太易于接近，从而让它失去神秘感，这位王子回答：“这是一个复杂的平衡问题。我们并不想冲淡神秘色彩。”
“The British public and the whole world need institutions like it,” he said.
“英国公众和全世界需要这样的体制，”他说。
The interview took place at the prince’s two-bedroom cottage at Kensington Palace in London. The report included anecdotes from the prince’s official appearances over the past year, where it said members of the public were “thrilled to be talking to, as one said, ‘an actual prince.’ ”
采访在这位王子位于伦敦肯辛顿王宫(Kensington Palace)的两居室寓所里进行。报道中提及这位王子在过去一年中正式亮相时的一些轶事，据说公众“为能够与‘一位真正的王子’（一位民众的原话）交谈而感到非常兴奋”。
In the line of succession, Prince Harry comes after his father, Prince Charles; Prince William; and Prince William’s children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte.
在王位继承顺序方面，哈里王子排在父亲查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)、威廉王子、威廉王子的孩子乔治王子(Prince George)和夏洛特公主(Princess Charlotte)之后。
His remarks were his latest to indicate a shift within the British monarchy toward greater openness, led by a younger generation. In a podcast released in April, Prince Harry shared rare details of the private life of a member of the royal family when he spoke of suffering emotionally for years after the death of his mother before finally getting help.
他的这些言论是他最近一次表明，英国君主政体内部在更年轻一代的领导下变得更为开放。在今年4月发布的播客中，哈里王子分享了自己作为皇室成员的私生活中的一些罕见细节，他提到母亲去世后，他有很多年遭受情感上的折磨，直到最后获得帮助。
In the Newsweek interview, he again brought up the impact that her death had on him, particularly as a 12-year-old child who walked in his mother’s funeral procession with the eyes of the entire world on him.
在接受《新闻周刊》采访时，他再次提到母亲的去世对自己的影响，尤其是自己12岁那年，在全世界的注视下，走在母亲葬礼的队伍中。
“My mother had just died, and I had to walk a long way behind her coffin, surrounded by thousands of people watching me while millions more did on television,” he told the magazine.
“我的母亲刚刚去世，而我却不得不跟在她的棺柩后面走很长的路，周围有成千上万人看着我，还有成百上千万人通过电视看着我，”他对该杂志说。
“I don’t think any child should be asked to do that, under any circumstances,” he said. “I don’t think it would happen today.”
“我觉得，不管在什么情况下，都不应该要求任何一个孩子做这样的事，”他说。“我觉得这种事如今不会发生。”
He has also denounced, in an unusual statement issued through his spokesman last November, the “racial undertones” of British news coverage and social media harassment of his new girlfriend, the American actress Meghan Markle, whose mother is black and whose father is white.
去年11月，他通过自己的发言人发布了一项不同寻常的声明，谴责英国新闻报导对他新女友的“种族影射”，以及社交媒体对她的骚扰。他的女友是美国女演员梅根·马克尔(Meghan Markle)，她的母亲是黑人，父亲是白人。
On June 15, Prince Harry, who told Newsweek that he often wanted to be “something other than Prince Harry,” rolled up his sleeves, sampled food from carts and chatted with people during an official appearance at Borough Market near the Thames, less than two weeks after terrorists went on a stabbing rampage there.
哈里王子向《新闻周刊》表示，他经常希望自己“不是哈里王子，而是其他人”。6月15日，他在泰晤士河畔博罗市场(Borough Market)正式亮相，挽起袖子，品尝食品车上的食物，与人们交谈。不到两周前，恐怖分子在那里进行了疯狂的持刀屠杀。
The monarchy and the costs used to support it have often been the subject of scrutiny, such as last November when a decision to renovate Buckingham Palace at a cost of £369 million (about $456 million) came amid years of national budget cuts.
君主体制以及支持它的费用经常成为人们审视的对象，比如，近几年，英国全国都在削减预算，而去年11月，王室却决定花费3.69亿英镑（约合4.56亿美元）装修白金汉宫。
Prince Harry’s remarks in Newsweek renewed discussion on social media about whether the monarchy was outdated.
哈里王子在《新闻周刊》上的言论在社交媒体上再次引发关于君主政体是否已过时的讨论。
“Prince Harry wants us to see him as an ordinary chap, who does his own shopping — but he is not,” wrote James Moore, a columnist, in the Independent. “It is true that he was exposed to the darker side of life in Britain while growing up, but he will never know the feeling of wondering whether he has enough money to pay for that shopping at the till.
“哈里王子想让我们把他视为一个自己购物的普通小伙子，但他不是，”专栏作家詹姆斯·摩尔(James Moore)在《独立报》(The Independent)上写道。“的确，他在成长过程中看到过英国社会更黑暗的一面，但他永远也不会知道盘算自己是否有足够的钱支付购物车里的东西的感觉。”
“That said, a gilded cage is still a cage, and escape is next to impossible,” he wrote.
“尽管如此，镀金的鸟笼依然是鸟笼，逃离几乎是不可能的，”他写道。