JERUSALEM — Hostilities between Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip continued Tuesday, despite Israel’s initial embrace of an Egyptian cease-fire proposal, which the Islamist Hamas movement appeared to reject.
耶路撒冷——以色列与加沙地带的巴勒斯坦武装分子之间的敌对行动已持续到周二，虽然以色列曾接受了埃及提出的停火方案，但伊斯兰哈马斯运动看来拒绝了该方案。
Israel announced at 9 a.m. Tuesday that it had accepted the Egyptian initiative, but a barrage of nearly 50 rockets from Gaza continued to fly into its territory over the next several hours. By 3 p.m., Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, an Israeli military spokesman, confirmed that “we’ve resumed some striking in Gaza,” but would not provide specifics. At least one airstrike hit Gaza City.
尽管以色列曾在周二上午9点宣布已接受埃及的提议，但是在接下来的几小时中，从加沙发射的近50枚火箭继续飞向以色列领土。下午3点，以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)确认，“我们已经恢复了对加沙的某种打击，”但他没有提供更多的细节。至少有一次空袭击中了加沙城。
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel had said earlier that he would respond with force if the rockets did not stop.
以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在早些时候曾表示，如果火箭不停止的话，他将以武力还击。
“We agreed to the Egyptian proposal in order to give the opportunity to deal with demilitarization of the strip from missiles, rockets and tunnels through diplomatic means,” Mr. Netanyahu said after a meeting with the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier. “But if Hamas does not accept the cease-fire proposal, as it looks now, Israel will have all the international legitimacy in order to achieve the desired quiet.”
“我们同意埃及的建议，为的是给用外交手段解决非军事化问题提供机会，让加沙地带不再有导弹、火箭和地道，”内塔尼亚胡在会见了德国外交部长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)后说。“但是，如果哈马斯不接受停火建议，正如现在看来的那样，以色列将拥有完全的国际合法性来实现所需的平静。”
Leaders of Hamas have not officially responded to Israel’s acceptance of the Egyptian proposal, which would halt the aerial battle that began on July 7 and calls for Israeli and Palestinian delegations to travel to Cairo within 48 hours to negotiate further terms.
哈马斯领导人还没有就以色列接受埃及建议作出正式回应，该建议会让始于7月7日的空战停下来，并呼吁以色列和巴勒斯坦代表团在48小时内前往开罗，就进一步的条款展开谈判。
Mousa Abu Marzouk, a Cairo-based leader of Hamas, said in a message posted on Twitter around the time the rockets were flying that the organization was still “consulting” and had “not issued an official position on the Egyptian initiative.”
身在开罗的哈马斯领导人穆萨·阿布·马尔祖克(Moussa Abu Marzouk)在火箭满天飞的时候，在Twitter发贴说，该组织仍在“磋商”，“尚未对埃及的倡议形成官方立场。”
A Twitter post, in Hebrew, by Hamas’s military wing, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, took responsibility for the rockets that were fired at Israeli cities on Tuesday, adding, “We will continue to bombard until our conditions are met.” The current hostilities, in which 185 Palestinians and no Israelis have been killed, are the third intense flare-up between Israel and the Palestinians in Gaza in less than six years. They began more than than two months after the spectacular collapse of American-brokered peace talks and a month after the swearing-in of a new Palestinian government that was based on a reconciliation pact with Hamas.
哈马斯的武装分支艾兹丁‧卡萨姆军团(Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades)在Twitter上用希伯来文发贴，承担了周二向以色列城市发射火箭的责任，并补充说，“我们将继续轰炸，直到我们的条件得到满足。”这次敌对行动已造成185名巴勒斯坦人死亡，尚无以色列人死亡，这是在不到6年的时间里，以色列与加沙地带的巴勒斯坦人第三次发生严重冲突。冲突是在美国斡旋的和平谈判令人惊讶地崩溃后的两个多月之后开始的，也是在一个建立在与哈马斯和解的协议之上的巴勒斯坦新政府宣誓上任一个月之后。
Tensions had been rising since the June 12 abduction and killing of three Israeli teenagers in the occupied West Bank, which Israel blamed on Hamas, and the July 2 kidnapping and killing of a Palestinian 16-year-old in an apparent revenge attack by extremist Jews.
紧张局势由于最近两个事件而升级，先是在6月12日，三名以色列青少年在被占领的约旦河西岸遭绑架并被杀害，以色列指责哈马斯是罪魁祸首，之后在7月2日，在一次显然是犹太极端分子的报复袭击中，一名16岁的巴勒斯坦人被绑架杀害。
In Gaza City, outside Shifa Hospital, which has treated many of the conflict’s worst casualties and become a focal point of mourning and defiance, several dozen people cheered as a rocket ripped skyward, leaving a white contrail.
在加沙城的西法医院(Shifa Hospital)外面，随着发射的火箭撕裂天空、留下白色轨迹远去，数十人在欢呼雀跃，这所医院接收过许多在巴以冲突中最惨重的伤亡者，已成为哀悼和抗议活动的聚集地。
“Ya Qassam, ya habib,” they chanted, referring to the Hamas military brigades that fire the rockets. “Strike, strike Tel Aviv.”
人们呼喊着发射火箭的哈马斯卡萨姆军团的名字，大声说道，“让火箭飞吧，飞到特拉维夫去。”
The response was a stark contrast from 2012, when an Egyptian-brokered cease-fire that ended eight days of cross-border violence was greeted by street parades celebrating it as a Hamas victory. A Hamas security official outside the hospital, who gave only a nickname, Abu Mahmoud, pointed at the rocket and said, “This is our celebration.”
这个响应与2012年的情况形成鲜明对比，那次由埃及斡旋的停火终止了历时8天的边境暴力之后，人们上街游行，将其作为哈马斯的胜利而庆祝。医院外，一名哈马斯安全官员只报了自己的昵称为阿布·马哈茂德(Abu Mahmoud)，他指着火箭说，“这是我们的庆祝活动。”
He referred to the cease-fire proposal as “only a way for Egypt to save face” and said bluntly, “We don’t accept it.”
他在提到停火建议时说，“那只是为了保住埃及的面子，”并直截了当地说，“我们不接受它。”
The Egyptian proposal, which was embraced by the United States, the Arab League and the Palestinian Authority, calls for border crossings into Gaza to “be opened,” and for the movement of people and goods to be “facilitated once the security situation becomes stable on the ground.” Some Israeli politicians criticized the cease-fire plan, saying that not enough damage had yet been inflicted on Hamas’s infrastructure and weapons caches. Haaretz, an Israel daily, reported that the foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman, and the economy minister, Naftali Bennett, had voted against it in the early-morning meeting of top ministers known as Israel’s security cabinet.
埃及的提议得到美国、阿拉伯联盟，以及巴勒斯坦权力机构的支持，提议呼吁“开放”进入加沙地带的边境口岸，“一旦地面安全情况趋于稳定，就将”为人员和货物的流动“提供便利”。一些以色列政客批评了这个停火方案，并表示还没有对哈马斯的基础设施和武器储藏造成足够的打击。以色列报纸《国土报》(Haaretz)报道，在被称为以色列安全内阁的高级部长的清晨会议上，外交部长阿维格多·利伯曼(Avigdor Lieberman)和经济部长纳夫塔利·贝内特(Naftali Bennett)对停火提议投了反对票。
Uri Ariel, the housing minister who is in Mr. Bennett’s far-right party, called the decision “a strategic mistake akin to building a train without paving the last kilometer.” On Twitter, he cracked that previous Israeli operations in Gaza had led to quiet for three years and 18 months, while the latest calm lasted an hour — “impossible to say there is no progress.”
同属贝内特所在的极右党派的住房部长乌里·阿里埃勒(Uri Ariel)称停火决定是“一个战略失策，相当于造好了火车，却没有修最后一公里的铁路。”他在Twitter上发贴说，以色列过去在加沙的行动分别带来了三年和18个月的平静，而最近这次带来的平静持续了一个小时，他开玩笑道，“不可能说没有进步。”
Danny Danon, the deputy defense minister and a frequent critic of Mr. Netanyahu from within the prime minister’s own Likud Party, had described the cease-fire as “a slap in the face of all the residents of Israel.”
国防部副部长丹尼·达侬(Danny Danon)经常批评内塔尼亚胡，他是总理所在的利库德党的成员，他把停火方案描述为“打了所有以色列居民一记耳光”。