JERUSALEM — The fate of Muhammed Deif, the commander in chief of Hamas’s military wing, remained a mystery on Wednesday, like much of his life spent in the shadows.
耶路撒冷——哈马斯旗下武装组织的领导人穆罕默德·德伊夫(Muhammed Deif)的命运，到周三时仍然是一个谜团，就像他这一生在阴影中度过的大部分时间一样。
The Israeli warplanes that dropped at least five bombs on a house in the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood of Gaza City late Tuesday were seeking Mr. Deif, in at least the fifth attempt to assassinate him.
周二晚间，以色列战机朝加沙城谢赫拉德旺社区(Sheikh Radwan)的一间房屋投掷了至少五枚炸弹，目的是夺去德伊夫的性命。而这至少是第五次杀死德伊夫的尝试。
Eight years ago, as Mr. Deif met with other top Hamas military officials on the ground floor of a three-story house in Sheikh Radwan, the Israeli Air Force struck at 3 a.m. Nine members of a family on the upper floors of the house were killed, but Mr. Deif and his comrades escaped.
八年前，德伊夫在谢赫拉德旺一所三层楼房屋的一层，与其他哈马斯军事领导人会面时，以色列空军(Israeli Air Force)在凌晨3点发动了袭击。居住在楼上两层的一家人中有九人丧生，但是德伊夫和他的同袍得以逃脱。
The latest bombing struck closer: One of Mr. Deif’s wives, Widad, 28, and their infant son, Ali, were killed along with fellow residents Wafaa al-Dalo, 48, and her two sons, Ahmed 18, and Mustafa 14, according to the Gaza Health Ministry and neighbors. The house was reduced to rubble.
最新的一次轰炸更加接近。加沙卫生部及德伊夫的邻居们透露，德伊夫的一名妻子，28岁的薇妲德(Widad)，以及二人养育的幼子阿里(Ali)丧生。一同丧生的还有同住的48岁妇女瓦法阿·达络(Wafaa al-Dalo)，以及她的两个儿子，18岁的艾哈迈德(Ahmed)和14岁的穆斯塔法(Mustafa)。现在，这栋房屋已经变为瓦砾。
It was not clear whether Mr. Deif had been in the house at the time, and neither Hamas nor Israel provided evidence of his survival or demise. “It was like an earthquake,” said a neighbor, Abu Fayez al-Shorafa, describing the powerful impact of the attack. “Everybody went out to check what happened.”
人们并不确定德伊夫当时是否在家中，哈马斯和以色列方面都没有提供证据，表明他的生死。“仿佛是地震，”邻居阿布·法耶兹·肖拉法(Abu Fayez al-Shorafa)在形容空袭产生的强烈震动时说。“所有人都跑出去看到底是怎么回事儿。”
After nearly three decades of living underground and two decades as No. 1 on Israel’s most-wanted list, and having survived severe wounds from two of the previous assassination attempts, Mr. Deif, now approaching 50, has become a symbol of Hamas’s staying power.
德伊夫在过去近三十年里一直行踪隐蔽，过去二十年里一直是以色列通缉名单上的头号人物。此前刺杀德伊夫的尝试中，有两次让他身负重伤，但他都得以生还。即将50岁的德伊夫一直是哈马斯的耐久力的象征。
On Wednesday, a day after the latest short-term cease-fire between Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip had collapsed, along with the talks in Cairo for a more lasting truce, more than 140 rockets were fired into Israel, which carried out at least 70 airstrikes against launch sites, weapons stores and other targets, according to the military. At least 19 Palestinians were killed.
以色列军方表示，周三有超过140枚火箭弹射进以色列，以色列则向火箭弹的发射地、武器库及其他目标发动了至少70次空袭。有至少19名巴勒斯坦人丧生。此前一天，以色列与巴勒斯坦武装人员在加沙地带的最新一次临时停火协议被撕毁，为了达成持久的停火而在开罗举行的会谈也宣告瓦解。
Even after a month of fierce fighting, which led to the deaths of nearly 2,000 residents of Gaza, and 64 soldiers and three civilians on the Israeli side, Hamas appeared unbowed.
尽管一个月的激烈战斗，造成加沙地带近2000名居民，以色列方面64名士兵及3名平民丧生，但是哈马斯似乎仍未屈服。
As the architect who built Hamas’s military wing, the Qassam Brigades, into a formidable fighting force equipped with rockets, tunnels and frogmen primed for deadly attacks, Mr. Deif is lionized by many Palestinians as a model of prowess and dedication in the battle against Israel.
德伊夫是哈马斯旗下军事组织的缔造者，将卡桑旅(Qassam Brigades)打造成了一支可怕的武装力量，拥有火箭弹、地道，以及专门开展致命袭击的蛙人。许多巴勒斯坦人都很崇敬德伊夫，称他是英勇投身对抗以色列的战斗的一个榜样。
“He is a pillar and the symbol of the military and jihadi work, and he is among the decision makers,” said Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas official in Gaza. Without specifying whether Mr. Deif was alive or dead, Mr. Barhoum said Mr. Deif, his wife and son “are part of the body that has the resistance as its soul.”
“他是一个支柱，也是军事行动和圣战工作的一个象征，而且他也是决策者之一，”加沙地带的哈马斯官员法齐·巴尔胡姆(Fawzi Barhoum)表示。巴尔胡姆并未透露德伊夫的生死，但他表示，德伊夫的妻子和儿子“也属于那个以抵抗为灵魂的躯体”。
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel refused to respond specifically to questions about Mr. Deif at a news conference in Tel Aviv on Wednesday. Mr. Netanyahu said only: “The heads of terror organizations and their commanders are a legitimate and top priority target. Nobody is immune.”
周三在特拉维夫举行的一场新闻发布会上，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)拒绝对涉及德伊夫的问题给予具体的回应。他只是说，“恐怖组织的头目，以及它们的指挥官，理应是袭击的目标，而且是首要目标。没有人能免于袭击。”
Ronen Bergman, an Israeli journalist specializing in security affairs who is researching a book on Israel’s intelligence and counterterrorism efforts, said: “Deif is the only prime military figure in Hamas to have survived so long. The fact that he was able to escape multiple assassination attempts and recover from severe injuries has built him the image and prestige of a bulletproof legend.”
关注安全事务的以色列记者罗内恩·伯格曼(Ronen Bergman)正在为一本讲述以色列情报和反恐行动的书开展研究。伯格曼说，“德伊夫是哈马斯的主要军事人物当中，仅有的一个能这么长时间幸免于难的。他能够逃脱多次追杀，身负重伤之后还能痊愈，这为他树立了‘刀枪不入的传奇人物’形象和声望。”
Whether Mr. Deif was eliminated or not, the targeting of one of his family shelters is likely to roil the Hamas leadership and raise internal fears of a security leak.
无论德伊夫是否被以色列除掉了，其家人的一个居所遭受袭击，都可能令哈马斯领导层感到不安，并在哈马斯内部产生有内鬼的揣测。
At a news conference in Gaza on Wednesday, the masked spokesman for the Qassam Brigades known as Abu Obeida declared the Egyptian-brokered truce talks dead. He warned foreign airlines not to fly to Ben-Gurion International Airport, outside Tel Aviv, starting from 6 a.m. on Thursday and cautioned Israelis against gathering in large numbers because of the risk from rocket fire.
周三在加沙举行的一场新闻发布会上，卡桑旅一名头戴面罩的发言人宣布，由埃及斡旋的停火对话已经失败。这名称作阿布·乌贝达(Abu Obeida)的发言人警告外国航空公司，从周四凌晨6点开始，不要飞往特拉维夫城外的本-古里安国际机场(Ben-Gurion International Airport)，还警告以色列人不要大规模聚集，以免受到火箭弹袭击。
Israel’s previous attempts to assassinate Mr. Deif happened in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2006. He lost an eye and some limbs, according to Israeli reports.
以色列过去刺杀德伊夫的尝试发生在2001年、2002年、2003年和2006年。以色列方面称，德伊夫失去了一只眼睛，肢体也有损伤。
Mr. Deif went on to establish six territorial brigades of fighters and maintained direct contact with the commanders in the field, according to Ehud Yaari, an Israeli expert on Palestinian affairs and a fellow of The Washington Institute for Near East Policy. To avoid detection by Israeli intelligence, Mr. Yaari said, Mr. Deif would send instructions through confidants on motorcycles.
研究巴勒斯坦事务的以色列专家、华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)研究员埃胡德·亚里(Ehud Yaari)称，德伊夫随后建立了六个地区性的武装分队，并且与实地作战的指挥官有直接联系。亚里说，为了躲避以色列情报机构的侦查，德伊夫会让亲信骑摩托车去传达指令。
Mr. Shorafa, the neighbor in Sheikh Radwan, said he did not know whether Mr. Deif had been living in the home that was bombed. It is common practice for senior militants in Hamas to move from apartment to apartment, often rented in others’ names, to avoid detection by Israeli intelligence. Mr. Deif’s real family name is al-Masri. Deif is an Arabic nickname meaning “guest” in Arabic, because he does not settle in one home.
谢赫拉德旺的邻居肖拉法说，他不知道房屋被炸毁时，德伊夫是不是居住在房中。哈马斯旗下武装组织的高层人员通常都会不断搬迁，而且经常会用他人的姓名租用房屋，以此避免以色列情报机关的侦查。德伊夫真实的姓氏是马斯里(al-Masri)，德伊夫是他的阿拉伯语绰号，意为“客人”，因为他不会在一个住所长期安顿下来。
Mustafa Asfoura said that his daughter Widad married Mr. Deif about four years ago, and that they had four children. Ali, at 8 months, was the youngest; the other children were injured. Mr. Asfoura, 55, said he had long expected his daughter to die in such a way because she was married to “the No. 1 wanted man in Israel.”
穆斯塔法·埃斯弗拉(Mustafa Asfoura)说，他的女儿薇妲德是四年前嫁给德伊夫的，他们生养了四个孩子。八个月大的阿里是最年幼的一个，另外三个孩子也受伤了。55岁的埃斯弗拉说，他很早就料到女儿会这样死去，因为她嫁给了“以色列通缉的头号人物”。