GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — When a class of Palestinian ninth-graders in Gaza recently discussed the deadly 1929 riots over access to the Western Wall in Jerusalem, it was guided by a new textbook, introduced this fall by the Islamist Hamas movement.
加沙地带加沙城——最近在加沙，当一班巴勒斯坦的九年级学生讨论发生在1929年的那场因耶路撒冷西墙(Western Wall)归属而起的血腥暴乱时，他们依据的是一本新教科书，今年秋天由伊斯兰派哈马斯(Hamas)运动组织推出。
Asked the lesson of the uprising, one of the 40 boys in class promptly answered, “Al Buraq Wall is an Islamic property,” using the Muslim name for the site, one of the holiest in Judaism. Pleased, the teacher then inquired whether the students would boycott Israeli products, as Arabs had boycotted Jewish businesses in 1929. A resounding chorus of “Yes!” came back from the class.
当被问到这场暴乱带来了什么教训时，班里40名男生中的一名立即回答：“布拉克墙（Al Buraq Wall，即西墙。——译注）是伊斯兰的财产。”西墙是犹太教的圣地之一，而他这里用的是该场所的穆斯林名。对回答颇为满意的老师于是问学生们，是否会像阿拉伯人在1929年抵制犹太商人那样，抵制以色列的产品。学生们响亮地齐声回答“是的！”
For the first time since taking control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, the Hamas movement is deviating from the approved Palestinian Authority curriculum, using the new texts as part of a broader push to infuse the next generation with its militant ideology.
这是哈马斯运动组织自2007年控制加沙地带以来，首次背离巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)认可的课程，利用新课本作为其更广泛行动的一部分，向下一代灌输他们奉行的好战思想。
Among other points, the books, used by 55,000 children in the 8th, 9th and 10th grades as part of a required “national education” course of study in government schools, do not recognize modern Israel, or even mention the Oslo Peace Accords the country signed with the Palestine Liberation Organization in the 1990s.
有5.5万名8、9、10年级学生在使用这些课本，它是政府学校要求学习的“国民教育”课程的一部分。除了其他一些问题以外，这些课本还不承认现代以色列的存在，甚至没有提到通过巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)在上世纪90年代签订的奥斯陆和平协议(Oslo Peace Accords)。
Textbooks have long been a flash point in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, in which dueling historical narratives and cultural clashes underpin a territorial fight. And they have been central examples of what Israeli leaders call Palestinian “incitement” against Jews, held up as an obstacle to peace talks newly resumed under American pressure.
长久以来，教科书一直是巴以冲突的一个导火索，两种争斗不休的历史描述和文化冲突也是领土纷争的基础。以色列领导人表示，教科书一直是巴勒斯坦人“煽动”对抗犹太人的核心表征，这些书为在美国压力下新近重启的和平谈判设立了障碍。
Beyond their take on Israel, the new texts are also a salvo in the war for influence between the rival Palestinian factions: the Gaza-based Hamas, and Fatah, which dominates the Palestinian Authority and the West Bank. They reflect a growing gulf between the 1.7 million Palestinians living in the densely populated Gaza Strip and the 2.5 million spread among the West Bank’s cities and villages.
除了对以色列的描述，在以加沙为大本营的哈马斯和主宰着巴勒斯坦民族权力机构及约旦河西岸(Sest Bank)地区的法塔赫(Fatah)两个巴勒斯坦敌对派系之间的影响力之战中，新课本可以说是哈马斯发起的一轮强攻。它们反映出，居住在人口稠密的加沙地带的170万巴勒斯坦人，和散布在约旦河西岸各市、村的250万巴勒斯坦人之间隔阂日渐加剧。
“Textbooks are always and everywhere a very important means of representing a national ethos,” said Daniel Bar-Tal, a Tel Aviv University professor who helped lead a comprehensive recent study of Israeli and Palestinian textbooks.
特拉维夫大学(Tel Aviv University)教授丹尼尔·巴塔尔(Daniel Bar-Tal)说，“无论何时何地，教科书都是一种非常重要的、体现民族精神的手段。”巴塔尔于近日参与主持了一项针对以色列和巴勒斯坦教科书的全面研究。
“When a leader says something, not everyone is listening. But when we talk about textbooks, all the children, all of a particular peer group, will be exposed to a particular material,” he added. “This is the strongest card.”
他还说，“当一名领导人发言时，不是每个人都在听。可是如果是教科书，那意味着所有的儿童，某个特定年龄群体中的每个人，都会接触到某种特定的教材。这是最强的一张牌。”
What Gaza teenagers are reading in their 50-page hardcover texts this fall includes references to the Jewish Torah and Talmud as “fabricated,” and a description of Zionism as a racist movement whose goals include driving Arabs out of all of the area between the Nile in Africa and the Euphrates in Iraq, Syria and Turkey.
今秋，加沙青少年学习的50页硬皮课本说到了犹太教的《摩西五经》(Torah)和《塔木德》(Talmud)都是“虚构的”，犹太复国主义是一种种族主义运动，其目的包括把阿拉伯人赶出非洲尼罗河与伊拉克、叙利亚和土耳其幼发拉底河之间的所有地区。
“Palestine,” in turn, is defined as a state for Muslims stretching from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea. A list of Palestinian cities includes Haifa, Beersheba and Acre — all within Israel’s 1948 borders. And the books rebut Jewish historical claims to the territory by saying, “The Jews and the Zionist movement are not related to Israel, because the sons of Israel are a nation which had been annihilated.”
至于“巴勒斯坦”则被定义为一个穆斯林国家，其疆域从约旦河延伸至地中海。一张巴勒斯坦城市列表包括了海法、贝尔谢巴和阿科，它们都在以色列1948年确立的国界内。这些课本还否认了犹太人在历史上对以上领土的主权主张，“犹太人、犹太复国主义运动和以色列是无关的，因为以色列后人的国家已经完全覆灭了。”
For contemporary history, there is a recounting of Hamas’s battle with Israel last fall that exaggerates: the books say rockets from Gaza sent “three million Zionists underground for eight days” (somewhat fewer Israelis were in and out of shelters sporadically); that Tel Aviv was hit (one missile landed in the sea and another fell well short); and that an attempted strike on Israel’s Parliament building “forced the Zionists to beg for cease-fire.”
说到当代史，这些教科书以夸大的口吻描述了哈马斯和以色列于去年秋天进行的战斗：它们说，从加沙地带发射的火箭弹，让“300万犹太复国主义者在地下躲了8天”（实际上只是偶尔有以色列人曾进出防空洞，人数没那么多）；特拉维夫被击中了（一枚导弹落在了海上，另一枚距目标甚远）；对以色列议会大楼的攻击计划“迫使犹太复国主义者恳求停火”。
Yosef Kuperwasser, a senior Israeli official who has led the charge against the incitement, said the new texts were blunter expressions of a dangerous message spread throughout Palestinian schools and news media.
在对这种煽动性言论的控诉中，以色列高级官员优素福·库柏瓦瑟(Yosef Kuperwasser)身先士卒，他说巴勒斯坦的学校和新闻媒体中一直有一种危险的观点在传播，而新教科书则是对这种观点更直接的表述。
“Palestinians have developed a system of deception — to English-speaking people they sell one story, and to themselves they have a different story,” Mr. Kuperwasser said. “Textbooks are one of the tools with which they tell their children what is the truth.” He added, “If you want real peace, it has to be based on a real change in the culture of hatred.”
“巴勒斯坦人已经建立起一套骗术——他们对说英语的人们推销一个故事，对他们自己则又是不同的说法，”库柏瓦瑟说道。“教科书只是其中一个工具而已，让他们藉此向下一代讲述他们的真相。”他又说，“如果你想要真正的和平，那么就必须从根本上真正改变这种仇恨文化。”
The study that Professor Bar-Tal co-led found that Palestinian Authority books generally contained more negative characterizations of Israel and less self-criticism than Israeli books do of Palestinians, but that both sides presented the other as the enemy, failed to properly mark most maps, and lacked information about each other’s religion, culture and daily life.
由巴塔尔教授共同主持的那项研究发现，相比较以色列教科书对巴勒斯坦人的描述，巴勒斯坦民族权力机构制定的教科书总体上包含了对以色列人更加负面的刻板描写，但双方都将对方视作敌人，在多数地图上都没能进行正确标识，也缺少有关对方在宗教、文化和日常生活方面的信息。
Hamas officials said they introduced the new textbooks, and doubled the time devoted to the national education course to two sessions per week, because they believed that the Palestinian Authority was under pressure from Israel to sanitize its curriculum. “We need to make sure generations stick to the national rights,” said one Hamas lawmaker, Huda Naim.
哈马斯官员表示，他们推出了新的教科书，将用于国民教育的课程时间加倍至每周两节，因为他们相信，以色列正向巴勒斯坦民族权力机构施压，“净化”其课程。“我们需要确保世世代代的人都能继续主张国家的权利，”哈马斯议员胡达·纳伊姆(Huda Naim)说道。
The Gaza Strip is home to 465,000 students. The United Nations Relief and Works Agency, which supports Palestinian refugee families, runs 250 schools for grades 1 to 9, and the Hamas government controls 400 schools serving all grades (there are also 46 private schools). Both Hamas and the refugee agency use the Palestinian Authority curriculum also taught throughout the West Bank, but Hamas has added some programs, like a military training elective introduced in high schools last year that focuses on resistance to Israel.
在加沙地带一共生活着46.5万名学生。支持巴勒斯坦难民家庭的联合国近东巴勒斯坦难民救济和工程处(United Nations Relief and Works Agency)管理着250所从一年级到九年级的学校，哈马斯政府管理着400所针对所有年级学生的学校（还有46座私立学校）。哈马斯和联合国难民救济机构都使用巴勒斯坦民族权力机构制定的课程安排，约旦河西岸各校也使用这一课程，但哈马斯也在这基础上增加了一些课程，例如去年在高中推出的军训选修课，重点教授如何对抗以色列。
Besides their questionable treatment of Israel and Jews, the textbooks present a decidedly Hamas spin on Palestinian politics and recent history. For example, Ahmed Yassin, a Hamas founder, is given equal billing with Yasir Arafat, the former Palestinian president, who remains the definitive national hero in the West Bank.
教科书除了对以色列和犹太人的处理存在问题，在描述巴勒斯坦政治和近代历史方面也明显具有倾向性。例如，教科书给予了一位哈马斯创始人艾哈迈德·亚辛(Ahmed Yassin)与巴勒斯坦前总统亚西尔·阿拉法特(Yasir Arafat)同等的重要性，后者至今依是约旦河西岸最无争议的民族英雄。
Anound Ali, a 10th grader at another Gaza City school, expressed concerned that the new books could further divide Palestinians. “School textbooks were the last thing uniting us with the West Bank — now we study something different,” she said one recent day after class.
阿南德·阿里(Anound Ali)是加沙城另一所学校的十年级学生，她担心新教科书会进一步分裂巴勒斯坦人。“过去，学校教科书是我们和西岸唯一有一致的地方，可现在我们学习的是不同的东西，”她最近在一次课后说道。
She added: “The book has nothing about Oslo. It’s our right to know about Oslo because it’s a fact in our life.”
她还说：“这本书完全没提奥斯陆的事。我们有权利了解奥斯陆协议，因为这是我们生活里的一个事实存在。”
At Suliman Sultan School here in Gaza City, a three-story L-shaped building overlooking the rubble of a stadium destroyed by an Israeli F-16 airstrike in November, many students and teachers were thrilled to have the new textbooks.
加沙城的苏莱曼苏丹学校(Suliman Sultan School)是一栋L形的三层建筑，楼下有个去年11月被以色列F-16战机摧毁的体育场，这里的很多学生和教师在拿到新教科书时都无比兴奋。
“It shows the cruelty of the occupation,” said Ahmed Bessisso, a 15-year-old student in the class that discussed the 1929 uprising. “It encourages students to participate in national activities.”
“它让我们看到占领很残酷，”15岁的艾哈迈德·贝息索(Ahmed Bessisso)在讨论1929年暴乱时说道。“它鼓励学生们参与国家的行动。”