LONDON — Prince Harry has said in a new interview that he suffered for years after the death of his mother, Princess Diana, before finally getting help about three years ago at the urging of his elder brother, Prince William.
伦敦——哈里王子(Prince Harry)在近日一次采访中说，母亲戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)去世后，他曾忍受多年的痛苦，还是在哥哥威廉王子(Prince William)的敦促下，三年前终于开始寻求帮助。
The candid statement by the prince, in a podcast released Monday by The Daily Telegraph, is the latest indication of a shift within the British monarchy toward greater openness, led by a younger generation. The two princes, along with William’s wife, the Duchess of Cambridge, are leading a campaign called Heads Together to end stigma around mental illness.
哈里王子在《每日电讯报》(The Daily Telegraph)周一发布的一个播客里开诚布公，这是年轻一代引领的英国君主制进一步转向开放的一个最新迹象。两位王子和威廉的妻子剑桥公爵夫人正在领导一个名为Heads Together的运动，希望为精神疾病洗脱污名。
Harry, 32, said that not dealing with the trauma had contributed to years of “total chaos” in his late 20s.
现年32岁的哈里说，他在接近30岁的时候有好几年处在“完全的混乱”中，一个原因就是没有处理丧母导致的心理创伤。
“I can safely say that losing my mum at the age of 12, and therefore shutting down all of my emotions for the last 20 years, has had a quite serious effect on not only my personal life but my work as well,” he said.
“我可以很有把握地说，由于在12岁时失去妈妈，我在过去20年里封锁了所有情绪，这给我的个人生活和工作都带来了非常严重的影响，”他说。
He added: “I have probably been very close to a complete breakdown on numerous occasions when all sorts of grief and sort of lies and misconceptions and everything are coming to you from every angle.”
他还说：“当各种各样的悲伤、谎言和误解以及一切从四面八方向你涌过来时，我多次濒临全面崩溃。”
In the podcast, Harry said he had tried to cope with the tragedy by not talking about it.
哈里在播客中说，他应对这个悲剧的方式，就是对其尽量闭口不提。
“My way of dealing with it was sticking my head in the sand, refusing to ever think about my mum, because why would that help?” he said. He recalled thinking: “'It’s only going to make you sad, it’s not going to bring her back.’ So from an emotional side, I was like, ‘Right, don’t ever let your emotions be part of anything.'”
“我处理这件事的方法就是把头埋在沙子里，拒绝去想我妈妈，因为那又有什么用呢？”他说。他回忆自己曾经这么想：“‘这只会让你伤心，不会让她回来’，所以从情感的角度来说，我的方式就是：‘好吧，永远不要对任何东西付诸感情。’”
Harry, who spent 10 years in the British armed forces and served two tours in Afghanistan, said in the interview that his struggles had consumed much of his 20s. (He was 27 in 2012, when tabloids published images of him naked while partying in Las Vegas, which prompted him to apologize for having “let my family down.”)
哈里在英国部队工作了十年，两次前往阿富汗服役。在接受采访时他表示，20多岁的大部分时间都忙于心里的挣扎。（2012年他27岁时，小报登出了他在拉斯维加斯派对上的裸体照片，后来他为“让我的家人失望”道了歉。）
The prince also praised the virtues of getting professional help.
哈里王子也赞扬了获得专业帮助的好处。
“Some of the best people or easiest people to speak to is a shrink or whoever — the Americans call them shrinks — someone you have never met before,” he said. “You sit down on the sofa and say: ‘Listen, I don’t actually need your advice. Can you just listen?’ And you just let it all rip.”
他说：“倾吐心声的最好或最容易的对象之一是心理医生——美国人称之他们为shrink——或是你以前从未见过的人，”他说。“你坐在沙发上说：‘听着，我实际上不需要你的意见。你能听我说话吗？’然后你就把心里的一切倾吐出来。”
Asked about counseling, he said he had received it “more than a couple of times, but it’s great.”
在被问到心理咨询的情况时，他说他“接受过好几次治疗，但感觉不错”。
He credited his brother with telling him: “'Look, you really need to deal with this. It is not normal to think that nothing has affected you.'”
他说这要归功于哥哥告诉他：“听我说，你真的需要去面对这个问题。认为你没有受到任何影响，是不正常的想法。”
Harry also said that boxing had helped.
哈里还表示，拳击也对他有所帮助。
“That really saved me because I was on the verge of punching someone, so being able to punch someone who had pads was certainly easier,” he said.
“这真是救了我，我当时处在很想打人的状态，所以能拳打带有防护垫的人显然好受些，”他说。
He added that staying quiet about emotional suffering in distress was “only ever going to make it worse,” and he urged people in such situations to seek help.
他还提到，对情绪上的困扰保持沉默，一味忍受痛苦，“只会让它变得更糟”，还力劝有同样处境的人寻求帮助。
“You will be surprised, firstly, how much support you get,” he said.
“一开始，你会惊讶自己能得到那么多支持，”他说。