Any potential royal bride running the feverish gantlet of the British tabloids must prepare to have her name mangled. Diana, soon to be the princess of Wales, became “Shy Di,” and Kate Middleton, now duchess of Cambridge, was transformed into “Waity Katie” because of the long time she dated Prince William before they were engaged.
任何有可能嫁入皇室的姑娘都要经历英国小报的狂热考验，等着自己的名字被拿去做各种文字游戏。成为威尔士王妃不久前的戴安娜(Diana)曾被称为“害羞的戴”(Shy Di)；如今是剑桥公爵夫人的凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)曾被称为“等待的凯蒂”(Waity Katie)，因为她和威廉王子订婚前约会了很长时间。
Now, Cressida Bonas, the 24-year-old girlfriend of Prince Harry, must endure the same punning wordplay.
如今，哈里王子24岁的女朋友克蕾西达·伯纳斯(Cressida Bonas)也要经受同样的双关语文字游戏。
To frame their story that Ms. Bonas might be joining Prince Harry for this year’s Boxing Day shoot at Sandringham, the Queen’s Norfolk estate and traditional Christmas holiday retreat, a Sunday Express headline ran: “Prince Harry Is Rewarded With a Warm Bonas.”
伯纳斯可能会和哈里王子一起参加今年在桑德林汉姆庄园举办的节礼日狩猎。桑德林汉姆庄园是女王在诺福克郡的地产，是王室在圣诞节的传统度假之地。为了给报道添油加醋,《周日快报》(Sunday Express)的标题写道：“哈里王子额外获得温暖奖赏（英文中的奖赏一词Bonus与伯纳斯的名字Bonas发音很像——译注）”。
Ms. Bonas’s anticipated presence at Sandringham Thursday — a speculation floated by some of the British newspapers, only to be shot down by others — set off more fevered speculation that Prince Harry was about to propose, a sales-generating story line that has been kept alive for several months. “Will Harry Make Cressida His Princess?” the Daily Mail asked in August (answer: not then). In October he was reported to be about to propose under the Northern Lights in Iceland (not then, either), and in November that she had given up her dream to be a dancer to marry him. (Still to be determined.)
虽然伯纳斯周四可能出现在桑德林汉姆庄园只是一种猜测——各个小报对此看法不一——但是它引发了更狂热的猜测：哈里王子即将求婚。这个能刺激销售的故事已经传了好几个月了。《每日邮报》(Daily Mail)8月份问道，“哈里是否会让克蕾西达成为自己的王妃？”（答案是：当时还没有）。10月份，有报道说他将在冰岛的北极光下求婚（也没有）；11月份，有报道说她为了跟他结婚已经放弃了当舞蹈家的梦想（仍待定）。
Ed Perkins, press secretary to the duke and duchess of Cambridge and to Prince Harry, declined to comment on Ms. Bonas’s holiday plans. But Ingrid Seward, the editor of Majesty magazine and author of “A Century of Royal Children,” wrote in an email that Ms. Bonas would most likely be staying with her father, Jeffrey Bonas, owner of MacCulloch & Wallis, a clothing and fabric manufacturer, who lives near Sandringham. Ms. Bonas “is one of the sweetest girls I have ever met, and I have known her since she was very young,” Ms. Seward said.
剑桥公爵和公爵夫人以及哈里王子的新闻秘书埃德·珀金斯(Ed Perkins)拒绝对伯纳斯的节日计划做出评论。但是《陛下》(Majesty)杂志的编辑、《百年皇室子女》(A Century of Royal Children)的作者英格丽德·西沃德(Ingrid Seward)在邮件中说，伯纳斯很可能会和父亲杰弗里·伯纳斯(Jeffrey Bonas)待在一起。后者是服装面料公司MacCulloch & Wallis的老板，住在桑迪林汉姆附近。西沃德说，伯纳斯“是我遇到的最甜美的女孩之一，她很小的时候我就认识她了”。
The British press, as is their wont, may have jumped the gun on the happy news.
英国媒体像往常一样，可能高兴得太早了。
“I wouldn’t be expecting a Christmas engagement, but they are very much in love, really serious about each other and spending a lot of time together,” said Sophia Money-Coutts, features editor of the British society magazine Tatler. Ms. Money-Coutts said speculation around Prince Harry proposing to Ms. Bonas had been heightened by the recent engagement of Guy Pelly, a close friend of Princes William and Harry, to his girlfriend, Lizzy Wilson. (There are also reports in the press that Pippa Middleton, sister to the duchess of Cambridge, may be engaged to her boyfriend, Nico Jackson, a London stockbroker.)
“我觉得他们圣诞节不会订婚，但是他们非常相爱，对彼此真的很认真，而且经常在一起，”英国社会杂志《闲谈者》(Tatler)的特写编辑索菲娅·莫尼-库茨(Sophia Money-Coutts)说。莫尼-库茨说，因为最近威廉王子和哈里王子的密友盖伊·佩利(Guy Pelly)跟女友利兹·威尔逊(Lizzy Wilson)订婚，所以围绕哈里王子向伯纳斯求婚的猜测也随之升温（还有报道说剑桥公爵夫人的妹妹皮帕·米德尔顿[Pippa Middleton]可能已经与其男友、伦敦股票经纪人尼科·杰克逊[Nico Jackson]订婚了）。
The royal correspondent for the Telegraph reported on Sunday that Ms. Bonas would definitely not be joining the crowd at Sandringham, quoting a “courtier” who said, “His Royal Highness knows that it would not be appropriate for Miss Bonas to join the royal family for Christmas until they are a married couple.”
《电讯报》(Telegraph)的皇家记者周日报道说，伯纳斯肯定不会参加在桑德林汉姆庄园的活动，并引用一位“朝臣”的话说，“王子殿下知道，在他们结婚之前，伯纳斯小姐和皇室成员一起过圣诞节是不合适的”。
Tatler made Ms. Bonas its cover star in October with the headline “Harry Loves Cressy: 20 Things You Need to Know About Cressida Bonas.” The accompanying article reported that the couple were introduced by Princess Eugenie, a daughter of Sarah Ferguson, formerly the duchess of York.
《闲谈者》的10月刊以伯纳斯为封面，标题是“哈里爱克蕾西：关于克蕾西达·伯纳斯你需要知道的20件事”。对应的文章中说，这对情侣是经前约克公爵夫人莎拉·菲戈斯(Sarah Ferguson)的女儿尤金妮娅公主(Princess Eugenie)介绍认识的。
Inevitably there have been comparisons drawn between Ms. Bonas and the duchess of Cambridge: the latter has been molded into a typically decorative, mostly mute royal consort, whereas Ms. Bonas is “incredibly arty, creative, happy-go-lucky,” according to Ms. Money-Coutts, who added, “She’s a party girl, but not wild or over the top.” Ms. Seward said Ms. Bonas was very different from the duchess: “less conventional.” Associates say that, whatever happens with the prince, she is determined to have a career of her own, probably as an actress.
人们难免会拿伯纳斯与剑桥公爵夫人比较：后者已被塑造成一个典型装饰性的、大多数时候缄默的皇室配偶，但是据莫尼-库茨说，伯纳斯“十分爱好艺术，很有创造性，特别乐观”，“她是个交际花，但并不狂热，也不过火”。西沃德说，伯纳斯和公爵夫人很不同：她“不那么传统”。有关人士说，不管和王子的关系发展到哪种程度，她都下定决心拥有自己的事业，很可能是去做演员。
If the duchess’s style can be described as stunning if sensible, Ms. Bonas’s is haute-bohemian. At a recent wedding she wore a crown of flowers atop an ensemble of a black coat, geometric-patterned dress and black tights. “There are lots of photographs of her in the press,” Ms. Money-Coutts said. “The fact she is jaw-droppingly beautiful is obviously a help.”
如果公爵夫人的风格可以描述为惊艳而不失端庄，那伯纳斯的风格就是高级波西米亚。在最近的一次婚礼上，她头戴鲜花王冠，身穿黑色外套、几何图案的连衣裙和黑色裤袜。“现在媒体上有很多她的照片，”莫尼-库茨说，“她惊人的美貌显然有助于此。”
In the summer, Ms. Bonas was photographed at the Glastonbury music festival wearing blue denim overalls and a hair scrunchie, previously the most benighted of fashion items. “Suddenly the scrunchie was cool again,” Ms. Money-Coutts said.
今年夏天，伯纳斯被拍到在格拉斯顿伯里音乐节上现身，她穿着蓝色粗布工装裤，戴着包布发圈。包布发圈曾是最愚蠢的时装配饰。“突然之间，包布发圈又开始流行了，”莫尼-库茨说。
Ms. Bonas’s mother is Lady Mary-Gaye Curzon, the daughter of an earl, who achieved some notoriety as a model in the 1960s by posing apparently topless smeared in engine oil. She had five children by three husbands, and Ms. Bonas is her youngest daughter, whose name was derived from “Troilus and Cressida.” “She comes from quite a grand family herself, an aristocratic family,” Ms. Money-Coutts said. “She is not going to be fazed by the grandness of the royal family.”
伯纳斯的母亲玛丽-盖伊·柯曾夫人(Lady Mary-Gaye Curzon)是一位伯爵的女儿，在20世纪60年代当模特时因为赤裸上身涂抹机油摆造型而令人哗然。她和三位丈夫生下了五个孩子，伯纳斯是她最小的女儿，取名于《特洛伊勒斯和克蕾西达》(Troilus and Cressida)。“她本人来自一个很大的家庭，一个贵族家庭，”莫尼-库茨说，“她不会因为皇室的宏大而手足无措。”
After attending Stowe boarding school, Ms. Bonas earned a degree in dance at Leeds University, then studied contemporary dance at the Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance in South London. The Tatler profile included tidbits such as if you drink with Ms. Bonas, offer to buy her a “rum, straight up,” and when embarrassed, she exclaims “cringe de la cringe.”
伯纳斯上完斯托寄宿学校之后，在利兹大学获得了舞蹈学位，然后在伦敦南部的三一拉班音乐舞蹈艺术学校学习现代舞。《闲谈者》对她的简介中包括一些小花絮，比如如果你和伯纳斯喝酒，提出要给她买一杯“不加冰的朗姆酒”，她会觉得尴尬，惊呼“太难为情了”。
“Harry doesn’t go for high-maintenance girls,” Ms. Money-Coutts said, adding that Chelsy Davy, his ex-girlfriend, was also down-to-earth. “Cressida’s very relaxed,” she said. “Kate Middleton has to be the way she is: she’s married to the future first in line to the throne. When you’re Harry, you can be a bit naughtier, and Cressida has a freedom that comes with being with Harry.”
“哈里不喜欢花销很大的女孩，”莫尼-库茨说。她补充说他的前女友切尔西·戴维(Chelsy Davy)也很朴实。“克蕾西达很放松，”她说，“凯特·米德尔顿必须得是现在这个样子：因为她嫁给了未来的王位第一继承人。哈里就可以更调皮一点，克蕾西达因为是和哈里在一起所以比较自由。”
Ms. Seward said that it might be difficult for Ms. Bonas to pursue a professional path if she joins the royal family. “It’s very hard to have a career,” she said. “Many have tried and failed. I don’t see Cressy being able to carry on with her dancing, which is why she is doing a bit of teaching to fill in. She has to do something.”
西沃德说，伯纳斯如果嫁入皇室，她想追求自己的事业可能比较困难。“想有自己的事业很困难，”她说，“很多人尝试过，都失败了。我觉得克蕾西无法继续自己的舞蹈事业，所以她有时也教一点舞蹈。她必须得做点什么事情。”
Ms. Seward added that Ms. Bonas was finding the media attention “very difficult indeed. She does not like it as she wants to go out and about without makeup, et cetera. It is very constraining. But Harry is being very protective indeed.”
西沃德补充说，伯纳斯发现媒体的关注“的确让人难以招架。她不喜欢媒体的关注，因为她想不必化妆打扮就能出去四处走走。媒体的关注让她很受束缚，但是哈里真的非常保护她。”
Mr. Perkins, the royal spokesman, would not say if Ms. Bonas was receiving support or advice, though, Ms. Seward noted, since the days of Diana, there is “more media, mobile phones and instant information.”
皇家发言人珀金斯不会对伯纳斯是否得到支持或建议做出评论，但是西沃德指出，与戴安娜时代相比，“现在有更多媒体、移动电话和即时信息”。
“You have to be much more secretive,” she said. “It’s not much fun. She is perfect for Harry, but giving up her freedom would be difficult. Having said that, Harry’s charm is like a flame thrower, and he is the most eligible bachelor in the world, so it’s hard to resist.”
“你不得不更加保密，”她说，“这可不好玩。她跟哈里很合适，但是放弃自由对她来说很难。但是话说回来，哈里的魅力就像火焰喷射器，他是世界上最著名的黄金单身汉，所以很难拒绝。”