Colombia’s government and the largest rebel group in the country have reached a deal to end more than 50 years of conflict, the two sides announced Wednesday, paving the way for an end to the longest running war in the Americas.
哥伦比亚政府与该国最大的反叛团体周三宣布，双方达成了旨在终结逾50年冲突的协议，为美洲持续时间最长的战争走向尽头开辟了道路。
For four years, the Colombian government and the rebels have been locked in negotiations to end the conflict. Time and again, they have emerged from the negotiating table to assure a weary public that another impasse had been eliminated, another hurdle cleared.
四年来，哥伦比亚政府与反叛者陷在终结冲突的谈判泥潭中。一次又一次地，他们离开谈判桌的时候向倦怠的公众保证，又一个僵局打破了，又一道障碍移除了。
This time, the two sides declared that a final deal had been clinched.
这一次，双方宣布敲定了最终协议。
The agreement effectively marks the end of the last major guerrilla struggle in Latin America.
这项协议实际上标志着拉丁美洲最后一场大型游击战的终结。
It outlines a timetable in which the rebels, known as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, will abandon their arms. It also sets out a pathway in which former fighters will enter civilian life again.
协议中列出了名为哥伦比亚革命武装力量（Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia，简称FARC）的反叛团体放下武器的时间表，还为曾经的游击队员重返平民生活开辟了途径。
But to most Colombians, the deal is simply a promise that the war, which has lasted 52 years, claimed some 220,000 lives and displaced more than 5 million people, is at last coming to an end.
然而，对多数哥伦比亚人而言，这项协议不过是做出了战争终于即将结束的承诺。这场战争持续了52年，导致大约22万人丧生、逾500万人流离失所。
Peace in Colombia now looks more likely than ever, but a big hurdle still needs to be cleared before the deal is ratified. President Juan Manuel Santos, who has staked his legacy on peace, must now sell the agreement to his people.
哥伦比亚看起来比以往任何时候都更可能实现和平，但协议正式生效前还需克服一个重大障碍。现任总统胡安·曼努埃尔·桑托斯(Juan Manuel Santos)将自己的政治遗产维系于和平进程上，眼下他必须向民众推销这项协议。
Rallying against that approval stands Santos’ predecessor, former President Álvaro Uribe, whose term ended in 2010 with the FARC diminished.
反对批准协议的人聚集在前任总统阿尔瓦罗·乌里韦(Álvaro Uribe)周围。当他2010年卸任时，FARC已遭削弱。
Uribe is widely credited with the military gains that forced the rebels to the negotiating table. But he is now leading a growing campaign against the deal, saying it amounts to an unjust amnesty for the rebels.
因为在军事上取得优势，乌里韦获得了广泛称赞，而且正是这种优势迫使反叛者来到谈判桌前。可是，他如今带头进行声势渐长的运动，反对这一协议，称其相当于对反叛者的大赦，并不公正。
“They will spend zero days in prison, they will be awarded with political representation,” Paloma Valencia, a senator in Uribe’s Democratic Center party, said of the rebels. “This deal breaks the rule of law.”
“他们不会在监狱里待上哪怕一天，他们还会获得政治代表权的嘉奖，”来自乌里韦领导的民主中间党(Democratic Center)的参议员帕洛马·巴伦西亚(Paloma Valencia)这样评论反叛者。“这项协议违反了法治原则。”
Still, others hailed the deal as a major step forward for a country of 50 million people whose growing economy has long been hampered by the simple fact that the state does not control all of its territory.
尽管如此，其他一些人称赞该协议是哥伦比亚的一大进步。该国拥有5000万人口，由于国家政权未能控制所有领土，其正在日渐增长的经济长期受到了抑制。