There are many sounds you don’t want to hear in the cockpit of an airplane. High on the list is an alarm followed by an electronic voice uttering the words “terrain, terrain” and “pull up.”
有许多声音是坐在飞机驾驶舱里的你不愿听见的。高居榜首的，是一声警报，紧跟着电子语音讲话，“地障、地障”以及“拉升”。
There are many sounds, as well, that you don’t wish to hear in the bedroom. High on this list is the whir of a purple sex toy purchased by your wife because you are impotent. It doesn’t help if you are a speaker of Spanish. In that language, another word for vibrator is “consolador.” You remain unconsoled.
也有许多声音是卧室里的你不愿听见的。高居榜首的，是紫色情趣玩具发出的嗡嗡声——那玩具是你老婆买的，因为你不举。如果你的母语是西班牙语，那也无济于事。在那门语言里，“震动器”还有个说法叫“安慰器”(consolador)。你自己仍然无所慰藉。
In the Colombian writer Juan Gabriel Vásquez’s new novel, “The Sound of Things Falling,” his narrator, a young lawyer named Antonio, has ample time to meditate on each of these unhappy noises. There is another he considers: the bangs of a pistol that gravely wounds him while killing his friend, an event that sets this book’s plot in motion.
在胡安·加布里埃尔·巴斯克斯(Juan Gabriel Vasquez)新著小说《陨物之声》(The Sound of Things Falling)中，作者笔下的叙事者，年轻律师安东尼奥(Antonio)拥有充裕时间去冥思这种种不愉快的噪音。他又考虑了另一种：砰砰枪响，手枪射杀了他的朋友，也重创了他。这一事件启动了全书的情节。
If it sounds like a lot happens in “The Sound of Things Falling,” well, yes and no. Mr. Vásquez’s novel is a kind of languid existential noir, one that may put you in mind of Paul Auster. Hot things are evoked in cool prose. Everything is, in Miles Davis’s terms, kind of blue.
听起来感觉《陨物之声》里发生了很多事，嗯，对，也不对。巴斯克斯这本小说是一种阴沉的存在主义黑色小说，可能会让你想到保罗·奥斯特(Paul Auster)。冷酷的散文中激发了热烈的事。每一件事，借用迈尔斯·戴维斯(Miles Davis)的话讲，都是有点儿忧郁的布鲁斯调调。
“The Sound of Things Falling” is Mr. Vásquez’s third novel. Like his first two — “The Informers” (2009) and “The Secret History of Costaguana” (2011) — it tinkers knowingly with his country’s literary, political and intellectual history. “Colombia,” he observes here, “produces fugitives.”
《陨物之声》是巴斯克斯的第三部小说。类似前两部——《告密者》(The Informers [2009])以及《科斯塔瓦那秘史》(The Secret History of Costaguana [2011])——这一部也是有意识地摆弄着他祖国的文学、政治与知性的历史。“哥伦比亚，”他在书中指出，“出产亡命人。”
Mr. Vásquez is as interested in generations, in collective experience, as he is in individual specimens of humanity. In this book’s case, he’s particularly consumed with those who lived in Colombia, especially in its capital city of Bogotá, during the 1980s: the years the city was terrorized by the ruthless and elusive drug lord Pablo Escobar.
巴斯克斯对每一代人，以及集体经验的兴趣，不亚于他对人类个别样本的兴趣。以本书为例，他就尤其全神贯注于居住哥伦比亚的人们，特别是20世纪80年代住在首都波哥大的人——那些年的这座城，曾处于无情又狡猾的大毒枭巴勃罗·埃斯科瓦尔(Pablo Escobar)威胁之下。
Antonio came of age in Bogotá during this period, and he immediately recognizes others who did so. He refers to them, as if they were abused whelps, as “members of our litter.”
安东尼奥就是在这段时间的波哥大步入成年，并且迅速识别同侪。提及他们，他就好像是在讲遭虐待的动物幼仔：“我们这一窝的成员。”
This litter grew up amid corruption and chaos. “I’m not talking about the violence of cheap stabbings and stray bullets, the settling of accounts between low-grade dealers,” Antonio says, “but the kind that transcends the small resentments and small revenges of little people, the violence whose actors are written with capital letters: the State, the Cartel, the Army, the Front.”
这一窝，在腐败与混乱中成长。“我不是在讲什么卑劣的捅两刀、子弹横飞的廉价暴力，或是低档毒贩之间的交易；”安东尼奥说，“我讲的是那种超越了小人物小忿恨小复仇的大暴力，施暴者的大名都是特指：国家，卡特尔，军队，阵线。”
The other generation he scrutinizes is that of young America in the late 1960s and early ’70s, when Peace Corps members flooded into Colombia and countries like it. About these people the author is admiring and dismissive in equal parts. One character arrives in Bogotá “ready to carry out various clichés: to have an enriching experience, leave her mark, do her share, no matter how small.”
他审视的另一个世代，是20世纪60年代末及70年代初的年轻美国人。当时美国“和平队”成员大量涌入哥伦比亚及类似国家。对于这些人，作者的态度钦蔑参半。书中有个角色来到波哥大，“已准备好将各种陈词滥调付诸实施：丰富经验，雁过留痕，事无巨细，尽她所能。”
This novel’s plot, like a strand of DNA, twists slowly and has incremental steps, like a ladder. It won’t do to spoil the climb.
这本小说的情节，就好像一条DNA链，蜿蜒盘旋，跬步拾级。万可不能毁了攀爬的过程。
At bottom it’s about what happens when Antonio meets a reclusive older man, Ricardo, who has served two decades in prison. They slowly become friends during games of billiards at a bar. One night, Ricardo is assassinated, and Antonio is shot and badly hurt.
归根究底，这本书是关于安东尼奥遇到一个隐遁大叔的事。大叔叫里卡多(Ricardo)，曾在监狱服刑二十年。两人在酒吧打台球，慢慢成为朋友。一晚，里卡多遭暗杀，安东尼奥也中弹，伤得很重。
Antonio becomes obsessed with Ricardo’s life, and the book scrolls back to the 1960s and ’70s, when Ricardo married Elaine, a young Peace Corps volunteer, and became involved, as a pilot, in the drug trade. Antonio ultimately tracks down Ricardo’s adult daughter, who knows almost as little about her father as Antonio does.
安东尼奥变得对里卡多的生活着了迷，而小说则回溯20世纪60、70年代，讲述里卡多迎娶和平队年轻志愿者埃莱娜(Elaine)的事，以及他后来作为飞行员牵扯进一桩毒品交易的事。安东尼奥最终追查出了里卡多业已成年的女儿，可她对自己父亲的了解几乎与安东尼奥一样少。
Mr. Vásquez is an estimable writer. His prose, in this translation by Anne McLean, is literate and dignified. Fetching images float past. We read that “a friend’s house smelled of headache.” And that Elaine has never slept with anyone who “didn’t have orgasms in English.”
巴斯克斯是一位值得敬重的作家。他的散文笔调，在安妮·麦克莱恩(Anne McLean)的译本中，读来优美高贵。引人入胜的画面自然流畅。我们读到，“朋友的家闻起来有头疼味儿。”又及，埃莱娜上过床的人，从来没有哪一个是“高潮时不讲英语的”。
There are several extended scenes in which this novel quickens beautifully and sweeps us aloft. Several of these, aptly enough, involve flight. “Elaine found herself facing the horizon, a world she’d never seen before bathed in a light she’d never seen before, and that same light was bathing Ricardo’s face, as his hands moved over the panel, and he looked at instruments (needles that were spinning, colored lights) she didn’t understand.”
小说中有几个加长版的镜头，情节漂亮地加快，带我们飞上天。其中几处，剧情都足够合理，还真就飞上天了。“埃莱娜发现她自己面朝地平线，那是一个她以前从没见过的世界，正沐浴着她从没见过的光。这同样的光也浸漫着里卡多的脸，他的手在仪表盘上游走，他看着各种仪器（飞旋的指针、彩色的灯）。而这些仪器，她看不懂。”
But “The Sound of Things Falling” is also remote, portentous, burped shut.
但《陨物之声》也很疏远、自命不凡、如同闷声打饱嗝。
People too often speak in thesis statements: “The saddest thing that can happen to a person is to find out that their memories are lies.” “It’s never too late to fix what you’ve broken.” The narrator broadcasts his share of these. “There is no more disastrous mania, no more dangerous whim, than the speculation over roads not taken.”
书中人再三讲出一些宛如归纳中心思想的话：“一个人能遇上的最可悲的事，就是发现他所有记忆都是谎言。”“亡羊补牢，为时不晚。”叙事者没少传播这一类的话。“再没有更具灾难性的狂躁，再没有更危险的奇想，能比得上对未择之路的推测。”
Metaphors and similes, scuffed perhaps in translation, often miss their mark. “Her face was like a party that everyone had left.” There is a “musical scandal of crickets and cicadas.”
隐喻和明喻，或因翻译而有所磨损，往往欲诉而不达。“她的脸就像是曲终人散的聚会。”还有一处“蟋蟀与知了的音乐丑闻”。
The plot can seem overdetermined. I turned the pages with interest — Mr. Vásquez is a gifted writer — but without special eagerness. He sometimes seems more interested in poetic generalities than in squirming people.
情节似乎也过于确定了。我饶有兴味地翻页品味——巴斯克斯是个有天赋的作家——但我并没有什么想要读下去的特别渴望。有时，相对于局促不安的人物，他显得对诗意笼统表述更有兴趣。
“A book must be an ice ax,” Kafka wrote, “to break the sea frozen inside us.” Mr. Vásquez’s book observes the frozen sea inside his men and women, often eloquently, and from many angles. But the ax blow never comes.
“一本书必须是一把冰斧，”卡夫卡曾写道，“要能打碎我们内心的冰海。”巴斯克斯这本书体察了书中男男女女冰冻的心海，表达往往生动感人，而且还多角度。但斧子那一劈始终没来。
If these damaged characters seem similar, well, that’s part of this book’s point. “That’s the great thing about Colombia,” Ricardo’s daughter declares, “nobody’s ever alone with their fate.”
如果这些破损的角色看来相似，这个嘛，这也就是这本书观点的一部分。“这正是哥伦比亚伟大之处，”里卡多的女儿宣称，“没有谁的命运茕茕孑立。”