Until seconds before the student, Emma Sulkowicz, walked onstage, Columbia officials had asked her to leave the mattress behind. President Lee C. Bollinger turned away as she crossed in front of him, failing to shake her hand, as he did with the other graduates.
直到学生艾玛·舒尔科维克兹(Emma Sulkowicz)走上台的几秒钟之前，哥伦比亚大学的官员都一直在请求她不要带床垫上去。校长李·C·鲍林杰(Lee C. Bollinger)在这位学生走到自己面前时，转过身去，没有与她握手，而他与其他毕业生都握了手。
Ms. Sulkowicz’s graduation, and the end of her protest, brought to a close a tumultuous year, in which Columbia became a focus of the movement to change how universities address sexual assault.
舒尔科维克兹的毕业是她抗议行为的终结，也是一个动荡的一年的结束，这年中，哥大成为旨在改变高校如何应对性侵犯的活动的重点。
A student group called No Red Tape has held protests, including one in which it projected the words “Columbia protects rapists” on the facade of a school library, and a number of students on Tuesday put red tape on their baby-blue mortarboards to show their support. In February, the university instituted a sexual respect education requirement, which obliges students in all schools to attend workshops or complete art projects on the theme of sexual respect.
一个名为“不要官僚作风”(No Red Tape)的学生组织一直在举行抗议活动，包括在学校图书馆的正门上方投影了“哥大保护强奸犯”(Columbia protects rapists)的字样，还有多名学生在周二把红色胶带（象征官僚作风，译注）贴到自己的浅蓝色学位帽上，以示他们的支持。今年二月，哥大制定了加强性尊重教育的要求，迫使各个学院的学生参加有关性尊重的研讨会、或完成相关主题的艺术作品。
As a result of her protest, which is also her senior art thesis, Ms. Sulkowicz herself has become the face of a national movement to raise awareness about sexual assault.
舒尔科维克兹的抗议行为也是她的毕业艺术作品，其结果是让她本人成为提高人们对性侵犯认识的全国运动的代表人物。
She attended the State of the Union address this year as the guest of Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, who is pushing a bill that would require every college to survey its students about their experience with sexual violence, create a uniform disciplinary process for accusations of assault and give law enforcement agencies a greater role.
她曾作为纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten E. Gillibrand)的客人，出席了今年的国情咨文讲演，陆天娜正在推动一项法案，要求各个高校对学生进行调查，了解他们是否遭遇过性暴力，对施暴的指控建立一个统一的纪律处分程序，并让执法机构在处理这个问题上有更大的作用。
Minutes before Ms. Sulkowicz walked across the stage, Paul Nungesser, the student she has accused of rape, did so as well, to little response from the crowd.
就在舒尔科维克兹从台上走过的几分钟前，被她指控强奸的学生保罗·侬葛瑟尔(Paul Nungesser)也从台上走过，人群对他几乎没有反应。
Mr. Nungesser, who was cleared by the university and has maintained that their sexual encounter was consensual, filed a federal discrimination suit last month against the school, Mr. Bollinger and the professor who approved Ms. Sulkowicz’s thesis project, saying he has been the victim of a harassment campaign.
侬葛瑟尔一直坚持他们的性行为是双方自愿的，哥大也排除了他强奸的问题，上个月他把哥大、鲍林杰以及批准舒尔科维克兹毕业设计项目的教授推上了法庭，起诉他们违反了联邦歧视法，称自己一直是一个骚扰活动的受害者。
One of the rules Ms. Sulkowicz set for her project was that she would carry the mattress whenever she was on campus until Mr. Nungesser was no longer there.
舒尔科维克兹给自己的项目制订的一个规则是，她每次出现在校园都将携带床垫，直到侬葛瑟尔离开校园。
The ceremony on Tuesday was on Class Day for seniors at Columbia College. The universitywide commencement is Wednesday, but Ms. Sulkowicz said on Tuesday that she was done with her project.
周二的仪式是哥大本科学院四年级学生的毕业日。整个大学的毕业典礼在周三，但舒尔科维克兹周二说，她已完成了自己的项目。
As for what will become of the mattress, which she bought online, she said she would hang onto it.
床垫是她从网上买来的，至于会怎么处理之，她说她会把它保留下来。
“If some sort of museum wants to buy it, then I’m open to that,” she said, “but I’m not going to just throw it away.”
“如果某种博物馆想要买的话，那我会考虑考虑，”她说，“但我不会就这么把它扔掉。”
Mr. Nungesser, who walked briskly away from campus immediately after the ceremony, declined to comment.
侬葛瑟尔在仪式后快步离开了校园，他拒绝置评。
The university had actively discouraged Ms. Sulkowicz from carrying the mattress. In an email sent to students on Monday, the university asked students not to bring “large objects which could interfere with the proceedings or create discomfort to others in close, crowded spaces shared by thousands of people” into the ceremonial area.
哥大曾极力劝阻舒尔科维克兹不要携带床垫。在周一发给学生的一封电子邮件中，哥大要求学生不要把“可能会干扰进程、或在人群密集空间引起他人不适的大型物体”带入仪式区。
Ms. Sulkowicz said that as students were lined up before the ceremony in Alfred Lerner Hall, a woman approached her and asked her to put the mattress in a room in the hall for the duration of the ceremony. Ms. Sulkowicz, who had stated she would not walk in the ceremony if she could not carry the mattress, refused.
舒尔科维克兹说，仪式前，学生们在阿尔弗雷德勒纳厅外排队等待时，一位女士向她走来，要她在仪式期间把床垫放在厅中的一个房间里。 舒尔科维克兹拒绝了，她曾表示，如果她不能携带床垫，她将不参加仪式。
Later, as Ms. Sulkowicz and her friends approached the stage, the woman reappeared and again asked her not to take it onstage, saying it would “block the flow of traffic.”
后来，在舒尔科维克兹和她的朋友们走近舞台时，那位女士再次出现，请求她不要把床垫带上台，称其会“阻碍人流畅通”。
Even the dean who was reading out the names seemed to get nervous, stumbling over hers.
就连正在宣读毕业生姓名的院长似乎也有点紧张，读她的名字时不太顺。
As Ms. Sulkowicz and her friends ascended the stage, Mr. Bollinger, who had been shaking the students’ hands, turned his back and leaned down as though to pick something up from his seat. Ms. Sulkowicz leaned over the mattress, trying to catch his eye, then straightened up and kept walking, shrugging with her free hand.
随着舒尔科维克兹和她的朋友们依次走上台，一直在与学生握手的鲍林杰转过身去弯下腰，好像要从自己的椅子上拾起什么东西。舒尔科维克兹也弯下腰，试图引起他的注意，然后她直起身子继续向前走，并用自己空着的手作了个无所谓的表示。
“I even tried to smile at him or look him in the eye, and he completely turned away,” she said later. “So that was surprising, because I thought he was supposed to shake all of our hands.”
“我甚至想对他笑笑，或者正视他一下，他完全转过身去，”舒尔科维克兹后来说。“那有点令人惊讶，因为我以为他本该与我们所有的人握手。”
A spokeswoman for the university, Victoria Benitez, said that the mattress had been between Ms. Sulkowicz and Mr. Bollinger and that no snub was intended.
哥大的女发言人维多利亚·贝尼特斯(Victoria Benitez)说，床垫把舒尔科维克兹和鲍林杰隔开了，鲍林杰并不是有意怠慢。