LONDON — A gunman fired shots on Saturday into a Copenhagen cafe that was hosting a public event on freedom of speech, featuring a Swedish artist who had received death threats for a 2007 cartoon he drew caricaturing the Prophet Muhammad. The Danish police said that one man, age 40, had been killed and three police officers were wounded, but that the gunman had been unable to enter the Krudttoenden cafe.
伦敦——周六，一名枪手向哥本哈根的一家咖啡馆射击。那里当时正在举办关于言论自由的公开活动，曾因为2007年创作的一幅讽刺先知穆罕默德的漫画而受到死亡威胁的瑞典艺术家是此次活动的重要来宾。丹麦警方称，一名40岁男子已遇害身亡，另有三名警察受伤，但枪手未能进入克鲁德特恩登(Krudttoenden)咖啡馆。
Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said Saturday evening that the shooting had been a terrorist attack and that the nation was on high alert. “We feel certain now that it was a politically motivated attack, and thereby it was a terrorist attack,” Ms. Thorning-Schmidt said.
丹麦首相赫勒·托宁-施密特(Helle Thorning-Schmidt)周六晚间表示，此次枪击案是一次恐怖袭击，国家处于高度戒备状态。托宁-施密特说，“我们觉得现在可以确定，这是一起出于政治动机的袭击，因此是一次恐怖袭击。”
The artist, Lars Vilks, 68, was unharmed, and the police said Saturday evening that there had been only one gunman, after initially reporting that there were two. The gunman, wearing a maroon balaclava over his head, fled in a dark Volkswagen Polo, which was later found empty. The French ambassador to Denmark, who was at the event, wrote on Twitter that he was unharmed.
68岁的艺术家拉尔斯·维尔克斯(Lars Vilks)安然无恙。警方周六晚间表示枪手只有一名，尽管最初的报告称有两名枪手。这名枪手戴着一顶栗色的巴拉克拉瓦面罩，乘坐一辆深色大众(Volkswagen) Polo汽车离开。该车被发现时，车内已空。当时也在活动现场的法国驻丹麦大使在Twitter上表示自己没有受伤。
The gunfire at the event, “Art, Blasphemy and Freedom of Expression,” followed the January attack in Paris on the offices of Charlie Hebdo, the satirical newspaper that had reprinted Danish cartoons of Muhammad.
遭到袭击的活动名叫“艺术、亵渎与言论自由”(Art, Blasphemy and Freedom of Expression)。今年1月，巴黎《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的办公室也曾遭到袭击，这家讽刺性报纸转载过关于穆罕默德的丹麦漫画。
Like Mr. Vilks, the editor of Charlie Hebdo — Stéphane Charbonnier, who was killed — had been on a list of assassination targets issued by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and other radical Muslim groups. Others, like the novelist Salman Rushdie, are still considered targets. The list also includes three staff members of the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten, which printed cartoons of Muhammad in 2005: Kurt Westergaard, Carsten Juste and Flemming Rose.
与维尔克斯一样，《查理周报》的编辑部主任——已经遇害的斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)——也在阿拉伯半岛基地组织（Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula，简称AQAP）和其他穆斯林激进团体发布的暗杀名单之上。小说家萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)等人仍被视为袭击目标。名单上还有丹麦报纸《日德兰邮报》(Jyllands-Posten)的三名工作人员：库尔特·韦斯特加德(Kurt Westergaard)、卡斯滕·朱斯特(Carsten Juste)和弗莱明·罗塞(Flemming Rose)。这家报纸曾于2005年刊印关于穆罕默德的漫画。
Mr. Vilks has regular protection from the Swedish police after death threats and at least one other attempt on his life. On Saturday, the Danish police were also guarding the cafe, and the gunman, who fired at least 30 rounds into the windows and doors, could not force his way in.
在面临死亡威胁，以及至少一次意图夺其性命的未遂袭击之后，维尔克斯受到了瑞典警方的例行保护。周六，丹麦警方也守卫着这间咖啡馆，枪手至少朝窗户和门发射了30发子弹，但未能闯入馆内。
Helle Merete Brix, one of the organizers of the event, said she believed Mr. Vilks had been the intended target. Amid the shooting, she said, she moved with Mr. Vilks into a cold storage room, as some French survivors did during the siege of a kosher market in Paris after the Charlie Hebdo attack. “I was in a cold room and kept hold of Lars Vilks’s hand,” she told Denmark’s TV2. “He was very cool. We stood and told each other bad jokes.”
活动组织者之一赫勒·梅雷特·布里克斯(Helle Merete Brix)说，她认为维尔克斯是此次袭击的目标。她说，枪击过程中，她和维尔克斯一同躲入了冷库。在《查理周报》遇袭之后，巴黎的一家犹太洁食(kosher)超市受到袭击，其中的一些法国幸存者也是这么做的。“我当时在一间冷库里，一直拉着拉尔斯·维尔克斯的手，”她告诉丹麦的TV2电视台。“他非常冷静。我们站在那儿，相互给对方讲冷笑话。”
Mr. Vilks also said that he believed he was the target. “What other motive could there be?” he told The Associated Press.
维尔克斯也说，他认为自己是袭击目标。他告诉美联社，“还能有什么其他动机？”
Ms. Brix said Mr. Vilks’s bodyguards had done “a tremendous job” and added, “It is a dramatic and unpleasant reminder of what we are up against in these times.”
布里克斯说，维尔克斯的保镖“表现得非常出色”，并补充道，“这件事以一种令人震惊和不快的方式提醒我们，我们当前面对着什么。”
Remarkably, she said, the seminar continued after the shooting.
她表示，值得注意的是，枪击事件发生后，讨论会继续进行。
Niels Ivar Larsen, one of the speakers at the event, said: “I heard someone firing with an automatic weapon and someone shouting. Police returned the fire, and I hid behind the bar. I felt surreal, like in a movie.”
活动的演讲者之一尼尔斯·伊瓦尔·拉森(Niels Ivar Larsen)表示，“我听到有人用自动武器射击，有人叫喊。警方进行还击，我躲在吧台后边。那种感觉很超现实，就像电影一样。”
The French ambassador, François Zimeray, was not hurt. “They fired on us from the outside,” he told Agence France-Presse. “It was the same intention as Charlie Hebdo, except they didn’t manage to get in.”
法国大使弗朗索瓦·齐默雷(François Zimeray)没有受伤。“他们从外面向我们射击，”他对法新社(Agence France-Presse)表示。“这与《查理周报》枪击案的动机一样，只不过他们没能进入屋里。”
The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, called the shooting a terrorist attack, and President François Hollande said he would send the interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, to consult with the Danes. The Danish police said they were investigating it as a possible act of terrorism.
法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)将此事称为恐怖袭击。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)表示，他会派内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)前往丹麦提供建议。丹麦警方表示，他们正在将该事件当做潜在的恐怖主义行动进行调查。
The president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, called the attack “another brutal terrorist attack targeted at our fundamental values and freedoms, including the freedom of expression.”
欧洲理事会(European Council)主席唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)称，该攻击事件是“另一起针对包括言论自由在内的基本价值和自由权利的残忍恐怖袭击”。
Mr. Vilks, who portrayed Muhammad as a dog on a traffic circle in a 2007 cartoon in a Swedish newspaper, said that he was under constant threat and that the Swedish police had increased their protection of him after the Charlie Hebdo killings. He told The Wall Street Journal last month that he had to coordinate his outings with the police because he “can’t go anywhere without a police escort.”
维尔克斯曾于2007年在一家瑞典报纸上发表漫画，将穆罕默德描绘成一只处在交叉路口的狗。维尔克斯表示，他不断收到威胁，瑞典警方在《查理周报》枪击案发生后加强了对他的保护。他在上个月告诉《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)，他外出时需要与警方进行协调，因为他“不能在没有警察陪同的情况下去任何地方”。
He said artists and satirists should not tread more carefully in their criticism of Islam than they would in criticizing any other religion. “Almost the entire Muslim world is subject to a theological rule that has a strange outcome when it comes to human rights,” he said. “You can’t ignore that. Then you’re talking tactics, how should one go about to change that. Some say you should be very careful, but that’s just postponing the problem. Sooner or later, you have to explain what you’re criticizing.”
他表示，与批评其他宗教相比，艺术家和讽刺作家在批评伊斯兰教时，不应该更加小心。“几乎整个穆斯林世界都受制于神权统治，这种统治涉及人权时会带来一种奇怪的后果，”他说。“不能忽视这一点。之后我们就要讨论战术问题，也就是如何行动来改变这一点。一些人表示，你应该非常谨慎，但这只是延缓问题。迟早都需要解释你在批判什么。”
Mr. Vilks is also known as a conceptual sculptor and something of a provocateur, building sculptures in protected nature reserves in Sweden. He originally drew his Muhammad cartoons for a local art exhibition, which withdrew them, fearing protests.
维尔克斯还是一名知名的概念派雕塑家，也是某种意义上的挑衅者，比如曾在瑞典的自然保护区内建造雕塑。他关于穆罕默德的漫画起初是为当地的一个艺术展览创作的，但该展览担心遭到抗议，撤下了这些漫画。