LONDON — The Copenhagen police said on Sunday that they had shot and killed a man they believed carried out two attacks that left two people dead, one at a cafe and one outside a synagogue, and wounded at least five policemen.
伦敦——哥本哈根警方周日称击毙了一名男子。据信，该男子分别在一家咖啡馆和一座犹太教堂外发起袭击，造成两人死亡，至少五名警察受伤。
The police have identified the suspect as a 22-year-old native of Denmark who was already known to security services as a gang member with a violent criminal record, but they did not name him.
警方已确认嫌疑人是一名22岁的丹麦人。安全机构已了解到他是一名帮派分子，有暴力犯罪记录，但未公布其姓名。
The dual attacks in Copenhagen had a copycat resemblance to last month’s attacks in Paris, in which jihadist gunmen killed cartoonists at the newspaper Charlie Hebdo and followed with gunshots aimed at a Jewish target. But the police said there was no immediate indication that he had any link to jihadist groups.
发生在哥本哈根的这两场袭击，与上月巴黎发生的袭击类似。在巴黎的袭击中，圣战主义枪手先是杀害了《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的漫画家，后来又将犹太人作为目标。但警方称，没有直接迹象表明他与圣战组织有何关联。
The first attack took place on Saturday, when a gunman sprayed bullets into the cafe where a Swedish cartoonist who had caricatured the Prophet Muhammad was speaking. That attack killed one man, who was identified on Sunday by the Danish media as Finn Norgaard, 55, a film director. Hours later, early Sunday, a man was shot and killed outside the city’s main synagogue, according to the police.
第一场攻击发生在周六。一名枪手朝一家咖啡馆扫射，当时一名曾以先知穆罕默德作为主题的漫画家正在该咖啡馆发表讲话。袭击导致一名男子死亡。丹麦媒体周日称死者是55岁的电影导演芬恩·诺加尔德(Finn Norgaard)。警方称，过了几小时后的周日凌晨，一名男子在该市主要的犹太教堂外遭枪击身亡。
Dan Rosenberg Asmussen, a leader of Denmark’s Jewish community, said that the victim at the synagogue was a young Jewish man who was guarding the entrance of a building adjacent to the synagogue. He said that some 80 people were inside the synagogue at the time, celebrating a bat mitzvah, and that the police had been asked to provide protection after the cafe shooting. Denmark’s chief rabbi, Jair Melchior, identified the Jewish victim as Dan Uzan, 37, a longtime security guard.
丹麦犹太社区领袖丹·罗森贝里·艾斯穆森(Dan Rosenberg Asmussen)称，犹太教堂外的遇害者是一名年轻的犹太男子，他当时正把守着与该犹太教堂相邻的一栋楼的入口。他表示，当时教堂里有大约80人，正在举行一场女孩成年礼。他还说，咖啡馆枪击事件发生后，教堂已请求警方提供保护。丹麦首席拉比雅伊尔·梅尔基奥尔(Jair Melchior)确认遇害的犹太人是担任保安多年的丹·乌赞(Dan Uzan)，时年37岁。
“Denmark has been hit by terror,” the Danish prime minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, said on Sunday. “We do not know the motive for the alleged perpetrator’s actions, but we know that there are forces that want to hurt Denmark. They want to rebuke our freedom of speech.” She added: “This is not a war between Islam and the West.”
“丹麦遭到了恐怖袭击，”丹麦首相赫勒·托宁-施密特(Helle Thorning-Schmidt)周日表示。“我们不知道嫌疑人的行为动机，但我们知道，有一些力量想要伤害丹麦。他们想攻击我们的言论自由。”她还接着说：“这不是伊斯兰教与西方之间的战争。”
She later visited the Copenhagen synagogue and said: “The Jewish community is a large and integrated part of Danish society,” adding, “Together we will shield Denmark from the kind of attack we saw last night.”
她随后视察了位于哥本哈根的那座犹太教堂，并表示：“犹太社区是丹麦社会的一个庞大而紧密结合的组成部分。”她还说：“我们将共同保卫丹麦不再遭受我们昨夜看到的那种攻击。”
Jorgen Skov, a police inspector, said at a news conference on Sunday in Copenhagen that the police had shot and killed the suspect after he opened fire on officers in the Norrebro neighborhood. The shooter was confronted by the police as he returned to an address that they were keeping under surveillance, Mr. Skov said. The police suspected that the man had been involved in the killings, in part because of information from video surveillance and from a taxi driver who had picked up the suspect. When the suspect returned to his address at 4:50 a.m., the police said, he responded to their shouts with gunfire and was killed.
警方督察约尔延·斯科夫(Jorgen Skov)周日在哥本哈根的新闻发布会上表示，嫌疑人在诺雷布罗社区开火后，警方将其击毙。斯科夫称，枪手回到了一个处在警方监视下的地方，双方交火。警方怀疑该男子参与了前述两场袭击，监控录像以及一名搭载过该男子的出租车司机提供的信息，成为一部分的判断依据。警方称，嫌疑人凌晨4点50分回到那个地方，听到警方喊话后开枪回击，警方遂将其击毙。
Torben Moelgaard Jensen, a senior police official, said: “We believe the same man was behind both shootings, and we also believe that the perpetrator who was shot by the police action force at Norrebro station is the person behind the two attacks.” The police have no indication for the moment that other suspects were involved, he said.
警方高级官员托本·莫加尔德·詹森(Torben Moelgaard Jensen)说：“我们认为这两起枪击事件的实施者是同一人，就是在诺雷布罗车站被警方行动队击毙的这名男子。”他说，警方尚未发现此案还涉及其他嫌疑人的迹象。
Later Sunday, there were reports that the police had raided an Internet cafe in connection with the case. A police spokesman, Steen Hansen, confirmed that there had been such a raid, but said it was one of many searches across the city, and he would give no further details.
周日晚些时候，有消息称，警方突然搜查了一家与此案有关的网吧。警方的发言人斯蒂恩·汉森(Steen Hansen)证实确有此事，但他表示，这只是全城范围的许多次搜查行动之一，不愿透露更多细节。
It was a dramatic day in Copenhagen, with 30 shots fired Saturday afternoon into a cafe at a public seminar on “Art, Blasphemy and Freedom of Expression,” intended to discuss the January attack in Paris on the offices of Charlie Hebdo, the satirical newspaper that had reprinted Danish cartoons of Muhammad. The event featured a Swedish cartoonist, Lars Vilks, 68, who had drawn a cartoon in 2007 of Muhammad as a dog at a traffic circle and was on a “death list” drawn up by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as was the murdered editor of Charlie Hebdo, Stéphane Charbonnier.
对于哥本哈根来说，这是惊悚的一天。周六下午，30枚子弹射向了一家咖啡馆。当时，那里正在举办一场关于“艺术、亵渎与言论自由”的公开讨论会，讨论1月份巴黎《查理周报》遇袭事件。这家讽刺性报纸曾经转载丹麦画家创作的穆罕默德漫画。这次活动的主角是瑞典漫画家拉尔斯·维尔克斯(Lars Vilks)，他曾在2007年将穆罕默德描绘成一只在交叉路口的狗。与遇害的《查理周报》主编斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)一样，维尔克斯也被列入了基地组织的“死亡名单”。
In addition to the killing of the film director in the cafe attack, three police officers were wounded. Mr. Vilks, who is under 24-hour police guard, was well-protected by both the Swedish and Danish police who prevented the gunman, who had shot up the front of the cafe, from entering it. The man escaped in a small Volkswagen, later abandoned, and hours later, just after midnight, the Jewish man was shot in the head and killed in central Copenhagen, near the synagogue. Two more police officers were wounded and again the gunman escaped, this time on foot.
除了一名电影导演在这家咖啡馆的袭击中遇难之外，还有三名警察受伤。维尔克斯受到了瑞典和丹麦警方的严密保护，24小时有警察守卫。在袭击中，警方也成功阻止了袭击者进入咖啡馆，使后者只能在咖啡馆外开枪。这名男子是乘坐一辆小型大众汽车逃走的，该车后来被遗弃，几个小时后，午夜刚过，一名犹太男子在哥本哈根市中心犹太教堂头部中枪遇难。又有两名警察受伤，袭击者再次逃脱，这一次是徒步。
The center of Copenhagen was shut down, and the police told residents to stay inside as they conducted their manhunt in the trendy Norrebro neighborhood.
哥本哈根市中心被封锁，警方在时尚的诺雷布罗社区展开了搜捕行动，并告诉居民待在室内。