SAN FRANCISCO — One hallmark of the current technology boom is a generation of start-ups valued at $1 billion or more by investors. Now meet the start-ups-in-waiting that may be next to reach that mark, if the white-hot market continues.
旧金山——目前科技界热潮的特点之一就是一大批初创公司得到了来自投资者逾10亿美元的估值。现在来看看如果市场的火热程度持续下去，那些将来可能会达到这一指标的初创公司。
The $1 billion valuation metric was popularized two years ago by the venture investor Aileen Lee. She found that many of the start-ups that reaped the hugest riches for venture capital investors — think Facebook and LinkedIn — often reached a valuation of $1 billion or more while they were privately held. Because of their rarity, Ms. Lee termed those companies “unicorns,” named after the mythical creatures.
风险投资者艾琳·李(Aileen Lee)在两年前普及了10亿美元这个估量标准。她发现，很多为风险资本投资者带来最大收益的初创企业——比如Facebook和领英(LinkedIn)——在由私人控股时的估值通常达到了10亿美元或更多。由于这样的企业非常罕见，艾琳·李以一种虚构的生物为其命名，称之为“独角兽”企业。
Since then, numerous start-ups have attained the $1 billion distinction — and topped it. With investors rushing to bet on the next big thing, the ride-hailing service Uber received a valuation of around $51 billion, while Airbnb, the online room-rental service, is pegged at about $24 billion. And every month, more companies are jumping into the unicorn echelon.
此后，大量初创企业被列入10亿美元企业的行列，有些还超过了这一规模。随着投资者纷纷押宝下一个热门企业，叫车服务企业优步(Uber)的市值达到510亿美元左右，而房间租赁服务网站Airbnb的估值达到约240亿美元。而且每个月都有更多公司进入独角兽企业梯队。
In total, there are now at least 131 such start-ups galloping across the private market landscape, and they are currently worth $485 billion to investors, according to the research firm CB Insights.
根据调研公司CB Insights统计，目前私人市场领域共有至少131个这样的初创企业，按照投资者的估量，它们目前价值4850亿美元。
If the gold rush behavior continues, investors may create more billion-dollar companies. But stock markets worldwide took a beating last week, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index falling below the closely watched 2,000 mark. The prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalist Bill Gurley recently said private investors could grow cautious if public tech stocks cannot arrest their fall.
如果这种淘金浪潮持续下去，投资者可能会创造更多价值以10亿美元计的公司。但世界各国的股市上周遭到打击，标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor's 500-stock index)跌破备受关注的2000点。硅谷的知名风险投资人比尔·格利(Bill Gurley)最近表示，如果已上市的科技股无法阻止下跌趋势，私人投资者会变得谨慎。
To find out which companies might be next to ascend, CB Insights, which tracks venture capital and start-ups, conducted an analysis for The New York Times. CB Insights used a proprietary software tool called Mosaic, which analyzes dozens of factors about a start-up, including the amount of money raised by a company; employee turnover; news and social media mentions; awards; customer growth; and partnerships. It also examines the overall health of the industry in which the start-up competes, as well as what can be known about the quality of a company’s investors.
为了找出下一批可能升值的公司，追踪风险资本和初创企业相关信息的CB Insights为《纽约时报》进行了分析。该公司使用了名为Mosaic的专用软件，该软件可以分析数十个与初创企业有关的因素，比如公司的筹资金额、员工流动情况、新闻及社交媒体的提及率、奖项、客户增长及合作情况等。还会检查初创企业所属行业的总体兴旺程度，以及有关公司投资者质量的情况。
CB Insights won a grant from the National Science Foundation to build Mosaic, using machine learning and data science to turn unstructured text into a quantitative tool to measure company health.
在Mosaic软件的研发上，CB Insights获得了国家科学基金会(National Science Foundation)给予的拨款，该软件利用机器学习技术和数据科学将没有结构的文本转变为衡量公司兴旺程度的量化工具。
The CB Insights analysis resulted in a list of 50 companies that cover the globe and different tech sectors but speak to some of the trends from the current boom. Half of the companies on the list are based in San Francisco and Silicon Valley, the cradle of tech start-ups, but 10 are international — hailing especially from China and India.
该公司通过分析列出了一份包含50家公司的名单，它们涵盖了全球不同的科技领域，但揭示了当前热潮的一些趋势。名单上有一半的公司在旧金山和硅谷这个初创公司的摇篮，也有10家国际公司，其中不少来自中国和印度。
Those countries are experiencing start-up booms of their own, with private companies such as the handset maker Xiaomi of China and the Indian e-commerce company Flipkart having already risen to unicorn levels. Now more American investors are pushing into those markets and into start-ups such as Uxin Pai, a Beijing-based used car auction site, as they go further afield for investments while more money chases the same targets at home.
这些国家正在经历自己的创业热潮，中国手机制造商小米、印度电商公司Flipkart 等私人公司都已经跻身独角兽企业行列。如今，越来越多的美国投资者进入这些市场，推动优信拍等初创企业的发展。而随着更多的本国资金追逐同样的目标，这些企业开始到更远的地方招募资金，优信拍是总部位于北京的二手车拍卖网站。
Many of the companies that CB Insights identified are also part of the hot tech sectors of the moment. In particular, investors are pouring money into service-oriented start-ups, intended to let consumers get food, razors, handymen or piano teachers at the touch of an app. Those companies include the British food delivery start-up Deliveroo and Postmates, which delivers goods from any store or restaurant.
CB Insights列出的很多公司也属于目前热门的科技领域。尤其值得注意的是，投资者将大量资金注入服务型的初创公司，这些企业可以让顾客通过使用应用程序获得食物、剃刀、勤杂工或钢琴老师，比如英国的送餐公司Deliveroo和递送服务公司Postmates，后者会为顾客运送任何商店或餐厅的货物。
The satellite company Planet Labs and the drone companies 3D Robotics and Airware also appear on the list, showing how investors are betting on the skies as a source of future profit.
卫星公司行星实验室(Planet Labs)和无人机公司3D机器人技术公司(3D Robotics)及Airware公司也出现在名单上，这说明投资者正在押宝与航天有关的企业，认为这是未来的利润来源。
Being on the list is by no means a definitive marker of success, but it provides a snapshot of a company. Many of the start-ups identified by CB Insights — especially those that have been alive for about a decade, such as the wireless speaker and audio products maker Sonos — may never hit a billion-dollar valuation. The current members of the unicorn club all reached that status in less than eight years, according to data from Pitchbook, a private equity and venture capital research firm.
登上名单并不是成功的最终标志，但这反映了一家公司的简况。CB Insights名单上的很多公司的估值可能永远无法达到10亿美元，特别是无线扬声器及音响产品制造商 Sonos等已有10年历史的公司。据私募及风投研究公司Pitchbook透露，独角兽俱乐部现在的成员都是在不到八年的时间里达到了这一标准。
Others may find valuations will stall if investors, burned by falling public tech stocks and alarmed by stock market fluctuations, rein in their private company bets. Mr. Gurley, the venture capitalist, said the boom might be at “an inflection point” and investors may refocus on profits instead of merely looking for growth.
如果投资者因为公开上市科技股下跌而焦头烂额，因为股市波动而感到恐慌，从而缩小对私人公司所下的赌注，其他公司可能会发现其估值停止增长。风险投资者格利表示，这种繁荣发展可能遇到了“一个转折点”，投资者可能会重新关注收益，而不只是寻求增长。
Still, many entrepreneurs said they were happy to be on the list. The founder of the Beijing-based online learning company 17zuoye, Chang Liu, for one, said he had been striving for his start-up to become a unicorn.
不过，仍有很多创业者表示，他们很高兴能够榜上有名。比如，总部位于北京的在线教育公司一起作业的创始人刘畅表示，他一直在为自己的初创公司成为独角兽企业而努力奋斗。
Others, such as Kirt McMaster of the software maker Cyanogen, were more skeptical about the merits of inclusion. “The community gets carried away with the unicorn thing,” said Mr. McMaster, whose company is building a mobile operating system to rival Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android. “There are a lot of $1 billion companies that will never turn revenue positive and will cease to exist in the next couple of years.”
软件制造商Cyanogen公司的基尔特·麦克马斯特(Kirt McMaster)等人对上榜的好处则持有怀疑态度。“这个社会在独角兽企业问题上失去了理智，”麦克马斯特说。“有很多价值10亿美元的公司永远都无法产生利润，将在未来几十年中消失不见。”他的公司正在研发一种手机操作系统，与苹果(Apple)的iOS系统和谷歌(Google)的Android系统展开竞争。
Mr. McMaster said he recognized there were benefits to gaining a big valuation. “Increasing my company’s valuation is a way to get money cheaper. Period,” he said.
麦克马斯特表示，他承认获得高估值有好处。“提高公司估值，可以让募资成本变得更低，仅此而已。”他说。
Tom Lee, the founder of the primary care group One Medical, which is on the list, said the unicorn designation came with baggage and created pressure for entrepreneurs to perform. “People can assume a kind of high growth and potential for scale across different types of companies, or they can assume that you’re overvalued,” he said.
位列潜在独角兽企业榜单的基层医疗服务提供商One Medical创始人汤姆·李(Tom Lee)表示，独角兽企业这样的头衔也是一种包袱，会给创业者带来运营压力。“人们会假定各种不同类型的独角兽企业都会有高增长或巨大的规模潜力，或认为你估值过高，”他说。
Mr. Gurley, who is at Benchmark, a venture capital firm that has invested in Uber and Snapchat, has long warned about drawing too much meaning from the unicorn milestone. In trying to achieve a $1 billion valuation, some entrepreneurs cut deals with investors — such as financial terms that promise investors a certain return on their money — that “in reality make the valuation lower,” Mr. Gurley said in an interview.
格利所在的Benchmark风险投资公司投资了Uber和Snapchat，他一直警告创业公司不要赋予独角兽级别的估值太多意义。为了能达到10亿美元估值，有些企业家会和投资者达成交易，比如向投资者许诺一定的资金收益之类的融资条款，而这“实际上让估值变得更低，”格利在接受采访时说道。
Early this year, Mr. Gurley also said there would be “dead unicorns” in 2015. Now, he said, “zombie unicorns” would have been a more accurate term, since struggling companies rarely fail outright. Instead, they labor privately and are often forced to raise money or sell themselves for less than their previous valuations.
今年早些时候，格利还曾表示，2015年会出现“独角兽企业死亡”的情况。现在，他则表示，用“僵尸独角兽企业”描述可能更准确，因为处于困境中的企业很少会直接倒下。他们还会在没有公众关注的情况下缓慢运转，而且往往会被迫融资，或以比估值更低的价格出售公司。
“The basic principles of probability say that a smaller percentage of them will hit the higher hurdles they need to make it to an initial public offering,” he said.
“概率基本原则决定了，它们中只有很小一部分会达到实现首次公开募股所需要的更高门槛，”他说。
Ms. Lee, who coined the term unicorn, said there were more $1 billion private companies these days partly because big industries like hotels and taxis were now considered fair game for start-ups. The thing to watch, she said, is whether companies meet the expectations and goals they set when they became unicorns before they burn through the money they raised.
发明独角兽企业这一称谓的艾琳·李表示，如今估值超过10亿美元的私营企业比以前更多，部分原因在于，酒店和出租车运营等大型行业也开始被认为是创业公司可以掘金的领域。她表示，有待观察的是，这些企业能否在烧光融来的资金之前，达到它们成为独角兽企业时所设定的预期发展目标。
“If they don’t do that, they’re in a dangerous position,” she said.
“如果它们做不到，就会比较危险，”她说。