An aircraft carrier can be a very handy tool, especially when trouble flares up far from a friendly military base. Just ask the Pentagon, which has 10 big Nimitz-class supercarriers that it uses around the world to protect air and sea lanes and to mount airstrikes. There’s generally at least one of them stationed near the Middle East at all times.
航母可以是个非常趁手的工具，尤其是在某个地方出现了麻烦，附近又没有任何友军的基地的时候。问问五角大楼就知道了。它拥有10艘尼米兹级超级航母，用它们在世界各地保卫空中和海上通道，并发动空袭。一般情况下至少有一艘常年部署在中东附近。
So, as other countries join in military action against extremists in the world’s hot spots, can’t they send their own carriers into action?
那么，当其他国家在全球各个热点地区参与反极端分子的军事行动时，难道就不可以派自家的航母去执行任务吗？
Well, they could if they had any. But, aside from the 10 American giants, there’s currently only one big carrier in the whole world that can handle such a job — and it doesn’t belong to Britain, Russia or even China.
没错，它们可以，如果它们有航母的话。但除了美国人的十艘庞然大物，世界上目前只有一艘大型航母能够应付得了这类任务——它不属于英国和俄罗斯，甚至也不属于中国。
It’s the Charles de Gaulle, the flagship and pride of the French Navy, and it’s been sent several times to join the fight against the Islamic State in Syria and in Libya. The carrier’s strike group performed so well in pounding the militants in the region that the United States Navy awarded it a Meritorious Unit Commendation in June. And President François Hollande of France announced on July 13 that the Charles de Gaulle would be redeployed to the Middle East this fall.
它就是戴高乐号(Charles de Gaulle)，法国海军的旗舰和骄傲。它已多次奉命前往叙利亚和利比亚，参与打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的战斗。这艘航母的打击群在打击该地区的武装分子过程中表现极佳，于今年7月获得了美国海军颁发的集体嘉奖(Meritorious Unit Commendation)。此外，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在7月13日宣布，今年秋天，戴高乐号将再度被派往中东。
Though it is nuclear-powered, the Charles de Gaulle isn’t quite a supercarrier — it’s shorter and much lighter, and doesn’t pack the same punch. But neither does it rate down among the small escort carriers and helicopter carriers that a number of navies employ. It is considered a medium-size fleet carrier, and these days, it has that category practically to itself.
戴高乐号虽然以核能为动力，却不太称得上是超级航母——它更短一些，重量也轻得多，打击能力也没有那么大。但它不至于沦落到与许多国家的海军都在使用的小型护航航母和直升机航母为伍。它被认为是一种中型舰队航母，而实际上它是这一类型中的唯一一艘。
Russia has the Admiral Kuznetsov, but that ship has been plagued with mechanical problems and doesn’t leave port often. A partially completed sister carrier was sold to China, but it has yet to complete trials. India has an older Russian castoff that rarely sails, and Brazil’s 50-year-old French-built fleet carrier, the São Paulo, is being refitted.
俄罗斯有库兹涅佐夫号(Admiral Kuznetsov)，但那艘航母一直受困于机械故障，并不经常出港。它的一艘处于半完工状态的姐妹航母被中国买了过去，但还处于试验阶段。印度手中有一艘舰龄更大的俄罗斯航母，很少航行；巴西的圣保罗号(São Paulo)舰队航母产自法国，舰龄为50年，目前正进行维修。
Britain, which got out of the fleet carrier game years ago for cost reasons, is getting back in: A newly built carrier, which is larger than the Charles de Gaulle, is expected to be commissioned next year. Another will follow several years after that.
数年前因成本原因退出航母竞赛的英国正在回归：一艘比“戴高乐号”更大的新造航母预计将于明年投入使用。几年后，另一艘航母也将投入使用。