There were 2.5 billion people in the world when Edward Burtynsky was born in the late 1950s. Now, there are seven billion and counting.
20世纪50年代末爱德华·伯汀斯基(Edward Burtynsky)出生时，世界上只有25亿人。如今，全球共有70亿人，而且还在不断增加。
“That’s literally a billion in every decade, so I started recognizing that human enterprise was expanding like a rogue species,” Mr. Burtynsky said during a recent interview at the Carlyle Hotel’s tearoom. “I gave myself the view of the outsider, with the ability to look at the systems we need to employ to support the basic mammalian biomass of seven billion people.”
“那就是每十年增加10亿人，所以我开始意识到人类活动在像野草一样蔓延，”伯汀斯基最近在卡莱尔酒店(Carlyle Hotel)的茶室接受采访时说。“我将自己置于旁观者的角色，这样才能对支持基本总数达到70亿的人类所需使用的各种系统进行观察。”
That initial realization is at the root of his artistic exploration, leading Mr. Burtynsky, a Canadian photographer, to “start looking at what the effect is of that amount of life bearing down on all the existing resources, whether it’s farmland, oceans, fish and all the protein that we get through the animal food chain.” He has spent the last several decades photographing how humans degrade the earth, as they mine, drill, pump and drain in a relentless quest for resources and riches.
这种最初的意识是加拿大著名摄影师伯汀斯基进行艺术探索的原因之一，使他“开始关注这么多的生命给一切现存资源施加了何种影响，不管是农田、海洋、鱼类，还是我们通过动物食物链而获得的所有蛋白质”。过去数十年，他一直在拍摄人类如何给地球带来伤害，出于对资源和财富的不懈追求，人类采矿、钻探、抽水，并逐渐耗尽资源。
“I don’t see myself as a card-carrying activist at all, but I do see myself as an advocate or a concerned citizen for sustainability,” Mr. Burtynsky said. “I see that we’re stretching the boundaries and limits of what we can do in nature, without it starting to bite back. It’s starting to, but I don’t think it’s given us a really bad bite yet.”
“我完全不觉得自己是个旗帜鲜明的活动人士，但我的确觉得自己是一个倡导和关心可持续发展的公民，”伯汀斯基说。“我看到我们在大自然不反击的情况下，肆无忌惮地扩展活动范围和界限。它已经开始反击了，但我认为带来的伤害还不是特别严重。”
His newest project looks at water, the most vital resource we have, and the multiple ways it is employed in the 21st century.
他的最新项目关注的是水，这是我们拥有的最关键的资源，以及它在21世纪的多种使用方式。
Mr. Burtynsky, who won the TED prize in 2005, was visiting New York for the opening of twin exhibitions at the Howard Greenberg Gallery and the Bryce Wolkowitz Gallery. Both shows feature hyper-realistic, large-scale photographs from his new work, “Water.” The exhibits are accompanied by a Steidl monograph, another exhibition curated and presented by the New Orleans Museum of Art (but on view at the Contemporary Arts Center, an independent organization), and his first co-directorial documentary film, “Watermark.”
伯汀斯基获得了2005年的TED奖，他正在纽约参加分别于霍华德·格林勃格画廊(Howard Greenberg Gallery)和布赖斯·沃科维奇画廊(Bryce Wolkowitz Gallery)举办的两项展览的开幕式。这两个展览展出他的新作“水”(Water)系列中那些超写实主义、大幅的照片。同时进行的还有一个施特德尔(Steidl)的专题展览——由新奥尔良艺术博物馆(New Orleans Museum of Art)策划、呈现的另一个展览（但是将在独立机构当代艺术中心[Contemporary Arts Center]展出）——以及他首次与别人合作导演的纪录片《水印》(Watermark)。
This inquiry began several years ago, while he was chatting with some journalists in Australia. “Some pretty crazy stories were coming back in terms of what was happening to the first continent that’s drying up,” he said. “It was in worse shape than anywhere else, at that point.”
这项调查始于几年前，他当时在澳大利亚与一些记者闲聊。“考虑到发生在第一个即将干涸的大陆上的事情，一些疯狂至极的故事正在重现，”他说。“它当时的状况比其他任何地方都糟。”
National Geographic contacted him soon thereafter, asking him to participate in a single-themed issue on water. The magazine requested that he focus on California, where he visited places like the Owens Valley, whose water was diverted to spur the growth of nearby Los Angeles.
不久之后，《国家地理》(National Geographic)就与他取得了联系，邀请他参与制作以水为单一主题的一期杂志。《国家地理》要求他主要关注加利福尼亚，他去那里参观了欧文斯谷等地方。人们把这里的水引到了附近的洛杉矶，以刺激当地的经济增长。
“It became literally a dust bowl, and it was the dust that was causing them a lot of difficulty,” Mr. Burtynsky said. “It used to be agricultural land, so a lot of fertilizers and pesticides were embedded in the soil. And a lot of selenium, for whatever reason. It was a bowl, so the storms would come in and lift the sand on to towns like Lone Pine. It featured some of the worst, most toxic dust storms in America.” (Yes, that’s the same Lone Pine made famous by Ansel Adams.)
伯汀斯基说，“那真的成了一个“灰尘碗”(dust bowl)，灰尘给他们带来了很大的麻烦。那里过去曾是农田，因此土壤中留下了许多肥料和农药。不知道什么原因，土里还有大量的硒。当地的地形像个碗，所以风暴袭来时会把沙吹到隆派恩这样的城镇上。此时出现了美国历史上最恶劣、毒性最大的几场沙尘暴。”（没错，就是因为安塞尔·亚当斯[Ansel Adams]而闻名的那个隆派恩）
From California, Mr. Burtynsky spread his search out across much of the planet, making photographs in the United States, Mexico, Iceland, Spain, China, the Netherlands, India, England and Canada. He broke the topic down into several categories: distress, control, agriculture, aquaculture and source. It fits his normal working style.
从加州开始，伯汀斯基将他的搜寻扩大到了地球上的很多地方，他在美国、墨西哥、冰岛、西班牙、中国、荷兰，印度、英国和加拿大都拍摄了照片。他把这个主题细分成了几个类别：悲伤、控制、农业、水产养殖和源头。这是他一贯的工作风格。
“I like to work in arcs,” he said. “I call them buckets, where I can fit the different ideas.” He chooses the individual subjects for their metaphorical potential, because, given water’s immensity as a subject, “you can’t be encyclopedic or comprehensive. It has to be more poetic and interpretive, but structural.”
他说，“我喜欢步步推进地创作，我把它们称作水桶，我可以把不同的想法装进去。”他选择的每一个拍摄对象都是因为它们具有潜在的象征意义，因为考虑到水作为一种物质是无边无际的，“你不是百科全书，也不能无所不包。它必须更加具有诗意和阐释性，但是要有一定结构。”
Regardless of the photographs’ impact, and the unpleasant realities they reveal, the pictures themselves are undeniably beautiful. Mr. Burtynsky is masterly in his use of aesthetics and in his manipulation of the viewer’s expectations.
抛开这些照片的影响力以及它们所揭示的恼人现实，这些照片本身就美得无可争辩。伯汀斯基对美学的运用，以及对照片观赏者期望的操纵可谓出神入化。
“Even though a lot of the pictures are really beautiful to look at, it’s pretty clear that even the beauty you’re looking at is something you intuitively know is not right,” said Russell Lord, who curated the exhibition in New Orleans. “It looks wrong for the surface of the earth.”
在新奥尔良策划了这个展览的拉塞尔·罗德(Russell Lord)说，“即使很多照片看起来真的很美，但显然，你凭直觉就知道你看到的美丽是有些问题的。似乎就不该出现在地球表面。”
Mr. Burtynsky uses art to try to ask questions, open minds and communicate problematic concepts. He acknowledges the difficulty in presenting beautiful pictures that can be misunderstood without the proper context, but insists that the art world is necessary to finance his practice. One photograph in the exhibition at the Howard Greenberg Gallery actually depicts a sewage treatment plant in London.
伯汀斯基用艺术来提问、敞开心扉，以及交流存疑的概念。他承认，展示一些在没有适当语境的情况下可能被误解的美丽画面，这很困难，但是坚持说，进入艺术世界是必要的，这样才能为他的实践提供资金支持。霍华德·格林勃格画廊展出的一张照片中描绘了伦敦的一个污水处理厂。
“I sold a print of that the other day,” he said. “I figure that’s a new high or low for art. I’m not sure.”
他说，“几天前我卖出一张。我觉得那对艺术来说，不是新高峰就是新低谷。我不确定。”