MANILA — On Thanksgiving Day, a Philippine developer named Jose E. B. Antonio hosted a company anniversary bash at one of Manila’s poshest hotels. He had much to be thankful for.
马尼拉——感恩节那天，一位名叫何塞·E·B· 安东尼奥(Jose E. B. Antonio)的菲律宾开发商在马尼拉一家顶级酒店举办了一场盛大的公司周年纪念活动。他的确有很多要感谢的。
In October, he had quietly been named a special envoy to the United States by the Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte. Mr. Antonio was nearly finished building a $150 million tower in Manila’s financial district — a 57-story symbol of affluence and capitalism, which bluntly promotes itself with the slogan “Live Above the Rest.” And now his partner on the project, Donald J. Trump, had just been elected president of the United States.
今年10月，菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)悄无声息地将他任命为美国特使。安东尼奥在马尼拉金融区斥资1.5亿美元兴建的大厦几乎已经竣工——那是一栋57层的高楼，是富裕和资本主义的象征，直白地以“高人一等的生活”做为宣传口号。而如今，他在这个项目中的合作伙伴唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)又当选了美国总统。
After the election, Mr. Antonio flew to New York for a private meeting at Trump Tower with the president-elect’s children, who have been involved in the Manila project from the beginning, as have Mr. Antonio’s children. The Trumps and Antonios have other ventures in the works, including Trump-branded resorts in the Philippines, Mr. Antonio’s son Robbie Antonio said.
美国大选结束后，安东尼奥便飞往纽约，在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)和当选总统的子女私下会面，他们从一开始就和安东尼奥尼的子女一起参与了马尼拉的这个项目。安东尼奥尼的儿子罗比·安东尼奥尼(Robbie Antonio)表示，两个家族还有其他正在进行的项目，包括以特朗普命名的多处菲律宾度假胜地。
“We will continue to give you products that you can enjoy and be proud of,” the elder Mr. Antonio, one of the richest men in the Philippines, told the 500 friends, employees and customers gathered for his star-studded celebration in Manila.
“我们会继续提供让你们感到愉快与自豪的产品，”在马尼拉的一场明星荟萃的庆祝活动上，作为菲律宾最富有的人之一的老安东尼奥尼对在场的500位朋友、员工和客户说道。
Mr. Antonio’s combination of jobs — he is a business partner with Mr. Trump, while also representing the Philippines in its relationship with the United States and the president-elect — is hardly inconsequential, given some of the weighty issues on the diplomatic table.
考虑到摆在外交桌上的一些重要议题，安东尼奥扮演的多重角色——既是特朗普的商业伙伴，又在菲律宾与美国及其候任总统的关系中代表着菲律宾的利益——无疑是十分紧要的。
Among them, Mr. Duterte has urged “a separation” from the United States and has called for American troops to exit the country in two years’ time. His antidrug crusade has resulted in the summary killings of thousands of suspected criminals without trial, prompting criticism from the Obama administration.
这些议题包括，杜特地曾竭力主张“脱离”美国，要求美国军队在两年内撤离菲律宾。他的反毒品运动导致数千嫌疑犯未经审判被草率处死，引来奥巴马政府的指责。
Situations like these are already leading some former government officials from both parties to ask if America’s reaction to events around the world could potentially be shaded, if only slightly, by the Trump family’s financial ties with foreign players. They worry, too, that in some countries those connections could compromise American efforts to criticize the corrupt intermingling of state power with vast business enterprises controlled by the political elite.
类似这样的情况已经促使来自两党的一些前政府官员提出质疑，担心特朗普家族与外国利益方的财务联系可能会妨碍美国对全球事件做出反应，哪怕只是轻微的影响。他们还担心，当美国要谴责某些国家的政权与政治权贵控制的巨型企业存在腐败的勾结时，这层联系会使谴责显得无力。
“It is uncharted territory, really in the history of the republic, as we have never had a president with such an empire both in the United States and overseas,” said Michael J. Green, who served on the National Security Council in the administration of George W. Bush, and before that at the Defense Department.
“在共和国的历史上，它的确是一片未曾涉足的地带，因为我们从来没有过一位在美国和海外建立起这样一个商业帝国的总统，”迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。此人曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)工作，在那之前还曾供职于国防部(Defense Department)。
The globe is dotted with such potential conflicts. Mr. Trump’s companies have business operations in at least 20 countries, with a particular focus on the developing world, including outposts in nations like India, Indonesia and Uruguay, according to a New York Times analysis of his presidential campaign financial disclosures. What’s more, the true extent of Mr. Trump’s global financial entanglements is unclear, since he has refused to release his tax returns and has not made public a list of his lenders.
全球各地都不乏此类潜在冲突。《纽约时报》对特朗普在竞选期间披露的财务状况进行的分析显示，他的企业在至少20个国家开展业务，尤其关注发展中国家，在印度、印度尼西亚和乌拉圭等国都建立了分支机构。此外，由于他拒绝公开自己的纳税申报表，也没有公开他的贷方名单，特朗普的全球财务网络究竟有多大尚不得而知。
In an interview with The Times on Tuesday, Mr. Trump boasted again about the global reach of his business — and his family’s ability to keep it running after he takes office.
在周二接受时报采访时，特朗普又一次夸耀他的业务遍及全球，称他的家人有能力在他履职后继续经营它。 
“I’ve built a very great company and it’s a big company and it’s all over the world,” Mr. Trump said, adding later: “I don’t care about my company. It doesn’t matter. My kids run it.”
“我建立了一个十分伟大的企业，它是个大企业，业务遍及全球，”特朗普说道。他后来还表示：“我不关心我的企业。它不重要。我的孩子们会管好它。”
In a written statement, his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said Mr. Trump and his family were committed to addressing any issues related to his financial holdings.
特朗普的发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)在一份书面声明中表示，特朗普及其家人决心解决一切与他的财产有关的问题。
“Vetting of various structures and immediate transfer of the business remains a top priority for both President-elect Trump, his adult children and his executives,” she said.
“不管是对候任总统特朗普，还是他的成年子女及高管，核查各机构和业务的直接转移都仍是一项首要任务，”她表示。
But a review by The Times of these business dealings identified a menu of the kinds of complications that could create a running source of controversy for Mr. Trump, as well as tensions between his priorities as president and the needs and objectives of his companies.
但在对这些商业交易进行仔细研究后，时报发现了一系列可能会不断给特朗普带来争议的难题，也发现他作为总统的优先事项与他的企业需求和目标存在矛盾。
In Brazil, for example, the beachfront Trump Hotel Rio de Janeiro — one of Mr. Trump’s many branding deals, in which he does not have an equity stake — is part of a broad investigation by a federal prosecutor who is examining whether illicit commissions and bribes resulted in apparent favoritism by two pension funds that invested in the project.
比如位于巴西海滨的里约热内卢特朗普酒店——特朗普的多个命名权交易之一，他在其中不占股权——就被卷入了一位联邦检察官开展的一项广泛调查中，调查旨在明确是否是非法佣金和贿赂促使两家退休金基金选择投资该项目。
Several of Mr. Trump’s real estate ventures in India — where he has more projects underway than in any location outside North America — are being built through companies with family ties to India’s most important political party. This makes it more likely that Indian government officials will do special favors benefiting Mr. Trump’s projects, including pressuring state-owned banks to extend favorable loans.
特朗普在印度的房地产投资有好几处——他在那里开展的项目，比在北美以外任何地方都多——这些项目的建造是通过一些和印度重要政党有密切关联的公司进行的。这让印度政府官员更有可能给予特朗普的项目一些特殊的照顾，包括向国有银行施加压力，延长优惠贷款。
In Ireland and Scotland, executives from Mr. Trump’s golf courses have been waging two separate battles with local officials. The most recent centers on the Trump Organization’s plans to build a flood-prevention sea wall at the course on the Irish coast. Some environmentalists say the wall could destroy an endangered snail’s habitat — a dispute that will soon involve the president of the United States.
在爱尔兰和苏格兰，特朗普高尔夫球场业务的高管一直分别在与两地的官员缠斗。最近的一场是围绕特朗普集团(Trump Organization)在位于爱尔兰海岸的球场上修建防洪海堤的计划。一些环保人士表示，这座海堤会破坏一种濒危蜗牛的栖居地——一起很快会涉及美国候任总统的争端。
And in Turkey, officials including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a religiously conservative Muslim, demanded that Mr. Trump’s name be removed from Trump Towers in Istanbul after he called for a ban on Muslims entering the United States. More recently, after Mr. Trump came to the defense of Mr. Erdogan — suggesting that he had the right to crack down harshly on dissidents after a failed coup — the calls for action against Trump Towers have stopped, fueling worries that Mr. Trump’s policies toward Turkey might be shaped by his commercial interests.
因为特朗普此前呼吁发布禁令，禁止穆斯林进入美国，包括土耳其总统、宗教保守派雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)在内的多名官员，曾要求将特朗普的名字从位于伊斯坦布尔的特朗普大厦上去除。在最近特朗普为埃尔多安辩护——表示他在一场政变失败之后严厉镇压异见者的做法是对的——之后，对特朗普大厦采取行动的呼吁停止了，这令外界更加担忧特朗普对土耳其的政策可能会受到他的商业利益的影响。
Mr. Trump has acknowledged a conflict of interest in Turkey. “I have a little conflict of interest because I have a major, major building in Istanbul,” he said during a radio interview last year with Stephen K. Bannon, the Breitbart News executive who has since been designated his chief White House strategist. “It’s a tremendously successful job. It’s called Trump Towers — two towers, instead of one. Not the usual one. It’s two.”
特朗普承认他在土耳其存在利益冲突。“有一点点利益冲突，因为我在伊斯坦布尔有一个非常重要的建筑项目，”他在去年接受布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)高管史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的电台采访时说，后者后来被任命为他的白宫首席策略师。“它是一个极为成功的项目，叫做Trump Towers——两座大楼，而不是一座。不是通常的一座，是两座。”
These tangled ties already have some members of Congress — including at least one Republican representative — calling on Mr. Trump to provide more information on his international operations, or perhaps for a congressional inquiry into them.
这些复杂的联系已经促使一些国会成员——其中至少包括一名共和党议员——要求特朗普提供更多有关他的国际业务的信息，要么就由国会对这些问题展开调查。
“You rightly criticized Hillary for Clinton Foundation,” Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, said in a Twitter message on Monday. “If you have contracts w/foreign govts, it’s certainly a big deal, too. #DrainTheSwamp”
“你就克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)对希拉里进行了合理的指责，”密歇根共和党众议员斯廷·阿玛什(Justin Amash)周一在Twitter上发信息表示。“如果你与国外政府存在合约关系，那当然也是件大事。#DrainTheSwamp（抽干沼泽）”
David J. Kramer, who served as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor during the Bush administration, said Mr. Trump’s financial entanglements could undermine decades of efforts by Democratic and Republican presidents to promote government transparency — and to use the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act to stop contractors from paying bribes to secure government work abroad.
戴维·J·克雷默(David J. Kramer)曾在布什政府时期担任负责民主、人权和劳工事务的助理国务卿，他表示特朗普的财务关系可能会损害多任民主党和共和党总统数十年来进行的多项努力，包括提高政府的透明性，以及利用《反海外腐败法》(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)阻止承包商为了在海外获得政府项目而行贿。
“This will make it a little harder to be able to go out and proselytize around these things,” Mr. Kramer said.
“这样一来就不太好到外面去跟别人说教了，”克雷默说。
Even if Mr. Trump and his family seek no special advantages from foreign governments, officials overseas may feel compelled to help the Trump family by, say, accelerating building permits or pushing more business to one of the new president’s hotels or golf courses, according to several former State Department officials.
多名前国务院官员表示，就算特朗普及其家人不试图从外国政府那里获得特殊优势，国外官员可能也会觉得自己不得不帮助特朗普，比如给新任总统的一个酒店或高尔夫球场加快建筑审批，或促成更多生意。
“The working assumption on behalf of all these foreign government officials will be that there is an advantage to doing business with the Trump organization,” said Michael H. Fuchs, who was until recently deputy assistant secretary at the bureau of East Asian and Pacific affairs. “They will think it will ingratiate themselves with the Trump administration. And this will significantly complicate United States foreign policy and our relationships around the world.”
“从所有这些外国政府官员的角度看，可行的假设是，与特朗普集团做生意是有好处的，”刚离职不久的前东亚与太平洋地区事务副助理国务卿迈克尔·H·富克斯(Michael H. Fuchs)说。“他们会觉得，这样可以讨好特朗普政府，而这会让美国的外交政策和我们在世界各地的关系变得复杂得多。”
What is clear is that there has been very little division, in the weeks since the election, between Mr. Trump’s business interests and his transition effort, with the president-elect or his family greeting real estate partners from India and the Philippines in his office and Mr. Trump raising concerns about his golf course in Scotland with a prominent British politician. Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka, who is in charge of planning and development of the Trump Organization’s global network of hotels, has joined in conversations with at least three world leaders — of Turkey, Argentina and Japan — having access that could help her expand the brand worldwide.
有一点非常清楚，那就是在竞选结束后的几周里，特朗普的商业利益与他的交接工作几乎是分不开的，候任总统或他的家人在他的办公室里会见来自印度和菲律宾的房地产项目合作伙伴，特朗普本人则向一位知名英国政治人士表达他对自己在苏格兰的高尔夫球场项目的担忧。负责特朗普集团全球酒店业务规划与开拓的特朗普之女伊万卡(Ivanka)，至少参与了与三位世界领导人——土耳其、阿根廷和日本——的对话，这些人可以帮助她将特朗普这个品牌扩大到世界各地。
Mr. Trump, in the interview with The Times on Tuesday, acknowledged that his move to the Oval Office could help enrich his family. He cited his new hotel a few blocks from the White House, which the Trump Organization has urged diplomats to consider patronizing when in town to meet the president or his team.
特朗普周二接受时报采访时承认，他入主椭圆办公室可能会帮助自己的家人揽聚财富。特朗普拿他那座距离白宫几个街区的新酒店举例——特朗普集团特别希望外交官考虑在来华盛顿会见总统及其团队时入住该酒店。
Federal law does not prevent Mr. Trump from taking actions that could benefit him and his family financially; the president is exempt from most conflict-of-interest laws. But the Constitution, through what is called the emoluments clause, appears to prohibit him from taking payments or gifts from a foreign government entity, a standard that some legal experts say he may violate by renting space in Trump Tower in New York to the Bank of China or if he hosts foreign diplomats in one of his hotels.
联邦法律无法阻止特朗普采取可能会在财务上有利于他和他家人的行动；大多数有关公私利益冲突的法律对总统都是无效的。但宪法似乎可以通过所谓的薪酬条款(emoluments clause)，禁止他收取外国政府机构支付的款项或赠送的礼物。一些法律专家表示，特朗普将纽约的特朗普大厦的空间出租给中国银行(Bank of China)，或在自己的酒店款待外国外交官，可能会违反这一条款。
“I mean it could be that occupancy at that hotel will be because, psychologically, occupancy at that hotel will be probably a more valuable asset now than it was before, O.K.? The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was before. I can’t help that, but I don’t care,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “The only thing that matters to me is running our country.”
“我是说，入住那个酒店可能是因为，心理上，住在那个酒店可能会变成比以往更大的一项资本，对不对？品牌肯定比以前更火了。这我管不了，但我不在意这个，”特朗普说。他还表示，“对我来说，唯一重要的是管理我们的国家。”
Robert D. Blackwill, a former National Security Council member who also served as ambassador to India during the Bush administration, said Mr. Trump still had a chance to demonstrate that he could manage these challenges once he was sworn in.
前国家安全委员会成员、曾在布什政府期间担任驻印度大使的罗伯特·D·布莱克威尔(Robert D. Blackwill)表示，在宣誓就职之后，特朗普还有机会证明他可以应对这些挑战。
“Let’s listen and not prejudge,” said Mr. Blackwill, a Republican who was so critical of Mr. Trump that he endorsed Hillary Clinton. “I want to see what he does as president.”
“让我们倾听，不要过早下判断，”此前对特朗普非常不满、以致为希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)背书的布莱克威尔说。“我想看看，作为总统他会怎么做。”