THERE aren’t many protests in prison. In a world where authorities exercise absolute power and demand abject obedience, prisoners are almost always going to be on the losing side, and they know it.
监狱里不会有很多抗议活动。在一个监狱当局行使绝对权力，并要求卑微顺从的世界中，囚犯们几乎总是处在输的一方，他们明白这一点。
The typical inmate doesn’t want trouble. He has little to gain and too much to lose: his job, his visits, his recreation time, his phone privileges, his right to buy tuna, ramen and stale bread at inflated prices in the commissary. The ways even a bystander to the most peaceful protest can be punished are limited only by the imagination of the authorities. Besides, logistics are difficult: men from cellblock X can’t just stroll down to see the inmates in cellblock Y. Strategizing must be done furtively, usually through intermediaries, any one of whom might snitch.
囚犯通常不希望有麻烦。他能够获得的很少，容易失去的却很多，比如他的工作、探访机会、娱乐时间、打电话的特权，以及在小卖部高价购买金枪鱼、拉面及陈面包的权利。在另一方面，就连最和平的抗议活动的旁观者也可能受到惩罚，这些惩罚的手段层出不穷，只受到监狱当局想象力的限制。再说，策划抗议的具体操作非常复杂：X分区的人不能闲逛到楼下找Y分区的囚犯。囚犯们必须偷偷制定策略，通常要通过中间人，而任何一个中间人都有可能告发他们。
And yet, sometimes things get so bad that prisoners feel compelled to protest, with work stoppages, riots or hunger strikes. On July 8, some 30,000 inmates in the custody of the California Department of Corrections went on a hunger strike to demand improvements in prison conditions. Their biggest complaint was the runaway use of solitary confinement, the fact that thousands of prisoners are consigned to this cruelty indefinitely, some for decades.
但有时候，情况变得非常遭，以至于囚犯们忍不住通过停工、暴乱或绝食进行抗议。7月8日，加利福尼亚州惩戒部(California Department of Corrections)约有3万名在押囚犯进行绝食抗议，要求改善监狱条件。让他们感到最不满的是监狱方面大肆动用单独监禁，数千名囚犯无限期地遭受这种残酷对待，一些人竟被单独监禁数十年。
I know something about solitary confinement, because I’ve been there. I spent a total of 12 years in various solitary confinement cells. And I can tell you that isolating a human being for years in a barren cell the size of a small bathroom is the cruelest thing you can do to a person.
我对单独监禁有些了解，因为我曾受到那种对待。我在各种单独监禁的囚室中总共被关了12年。我可以告诉你，将一个人关在只有小卫生间大小的简陋囚室里，使他多年与世隔绝，是你对他能够做出的最残忍的事情。
Deprived of all human contact, you lose your feeling of connectedness to the world. You lose your ability to make small talk, even with the guard who shoves your meal through the slot in the door. You live entirely in your head, for there is nothing else. You talk to yourself, answer yourself. You become paranoid, depressed, sleepless. To ward off madness, you must give your mind something to do. In 1970, I counted the 358 rivets that held my steel cell together, over and over. Every time the walls seemed to be closing in on me, I counted them again, to give my mind something to fasten on to.
被剥夺所有人际接触后，你感觉自己与世界失去联系。你失去了闲聊的能力，甚至无法与通过门上的小门给你递饭的守卫交谈。你完全生活在自己的想象中，因为没有别的事情。你自言自语，自问自答。你变得偏执、沮丧，并且失眠。为了避免精神失常，你必须思考一些东西。1970年，我反复地数着我所在的钢铁牢房中的358颗铆钉。每当我感觉墙壁向我压来的时候，我就再数一次，以便让自己有点东西可以关注。
There are men like Thomas Silverstein, in the federal prison system, who has been in solitary 30 years, and Albert Woodfox and Herman Wallace, who have been in Louisiana cells for some 40 years each. These men become examples of abuse of power and sometimes a rallying point for their fellow prisoners, who know they could one day face the same fate.
在联邦监狱系统，托马斯·希尔弗斯坦(Thomas Silverstein)被单独监禁了30年，在路易斯安那州的监狱，艾伯特·伍德福克斯(Albert Woodfox)和赫尔曼·华莱士(Herman Wallace)分别被单独监禁了大约40年。这些人成为监狱滥用权力的例子，有时成为其他囚犯闹事的动力，他们知道自己有一天可能面临同样的命运。
The prison protests in California are on an unprecedented scale; amazingly, they involved, at their peak, about two-thirds of the state’s penal facilities. At the beginning of this week, more than 2,500 inmates were still refusing food.
加州的监狱抗议活动达到了空前规模，令人惊讶的是，抗议高峰时期，该州大约三分之二的惩教设施受到波及。截至本周初，2500多名囚犯仍然拒绝进食。
If prison authorities do not understand why thousands of inmates not directly affected by solitary confinement would join the protests, at great risk to themselves, they have only themselves to blame. They are victims of their own censorship.
如果监狱当局不明白为什么数千名没有直接遭受单独监禁的囚犯会冒着巨大风险加入抗议活动，他们只能怪自己。他们是他们实行的审查制度的受害者。
If they were to listen to the inmates, they would understand that protests are almost always the product of what prisoners perceive to be officials’ abuse of arbitrary power. They are generally done by men made desperate by the lack of options to address their grievances. At the heart of the problem is a lack of open communications and freedom of expression.
如果他们听一听囚犯们的想法，他们就会明白，抗议活动几乎总是囚犯们眼中官员滥用专断权力的结果。参加抗议活动的人，一般都因为无法倾诉不满而感到绝望。问题的核心是缺乏开放交流及自由表达的机会。
As a practical matter this is easy to resolve: institute mechanisms for authorities to meet regularly with inmates to discuss their problems without fear of reprisal. But this goes against entrenched attitudes, and too many officials see it as a surrender of their authority.
这是一个很容易解决的实际问题：建立机制，促使监狱当局与囚犯定期开会，让囚犯能在不惧报复的情况下讨论他们的问题。但这不符合固化的态度，太多官员认为这种安排等于放弃他们的权威。
Too bad, because making responsible inmates partners in managing prison problems has worked extremely well in the Louisiana State Penitentiary, where the warden and sub-wardens have, for decades, regularly met with inmate leaders to discuss problems. It has gone from being one of the bloodiest to one of the safest maximum security prisons in America.
这太糟了，因为在路易斯安那州州立监狱(Louisiana State Penitentiary)，在管控监狱问题方面，让负责任的囚犯成为合作伙伴早已收到非常好的效果，在这里，监狱长和副监狱长数十年来定期与囚犯领头人开会讨论问题。这座监狱已经从一个最血腥的监狱之一，变成美国最安全的最高安全级别监狱之一。
And if prison officials actually listened to inmates, they would find that their demands are often reasonable. It goes without saying that some inmates must be isolated for security reasons. And the California protesters acknowledge as much. They don’t demand a total end to the use of solitary confinement, but only reasonable limits to who is locked up and for how long, as well as some simple improvements like more educational and rehabilitative programming for those in solitary.
如果监狱官员好好听一听囚犯们的想法，他们会发现囚犯的要求往往是合理的。当然，出于安全原因，一些囚犯必须被隔离。加州的抗议者承认这一点。他们没有要求完全停止单独监禁，而只是要求对单独监禁对象及单独监禁时间进行合理限制，并做出一些简单的改善，比如为那些被单独监禁的囚犯提供更多教育及改造安排。
Why should you be concerned about the inhumane conditions of prolonged solitary confinement, with all the social, emotional and mental deterioration that it entails? Well, every year men from California’s Pelican Bay and other supermax prisons around the nation are released directly from the vacuum of their cells into free society, to live and work among you and your loved ones. As a matter of self-preservation, maybe we should all join the prisoners’ request for rehabilitative opportunities that will improve the mental health of those in solitary.
长期单独监禁会导致社交、情绪及精神方面出现退化，你为什么应该关心这种不人道的待遇？嗯，每年都会有囚犯从加利福尼亚鹈鹕湾监狱(Pelican Bay)及美国其他超高安全级别监狱的空荡荡的牢房获释，直接进入自由社会，与你及你所爱的人一起生活、工作。事关自我保护，或许我们都应该支持囚犯们请求监狱提供改造机会的呼声，以改善遭受单独监禁的囚犯的精神健康。