It was the tweet heard round the sex-worker world. At 6:12 p.m. on Oct. 29, Margaret Cho, the 46-year-old comedian, disturbed the Twittersphere with an economical 109 characters: “Sex work is simply work. For me it was honest work. I was a sex worker when I was young. It was hard but well paid. There’s no shame in it.”
10月29日下午6点12分，46岁的喜剧演员赵牡丹(Margaret Cho)在Twitter上发了这样几句话：“性工作只是一种职业。我觉得它是正当职业。我年轻时从事过性服务。它不容易，但是报酬丰厚。没什么好丢脸的。”这个帖子在Twitter上引起轩然大波，在性工作者中广为流传。
What followed was a series of delighted tweets of support from current and former adult-industry workers, which Ms. Cho met with lots of XXXs and OOOs, as well as no shortage of derision from those less impressed with her revelation.
目前或曾经的成人行业工作者发表了一系列兴高采烈地对她表示支持的帖子，赵牡丹回复了无数个亲吻和拥抱图标；也有不少人对她吐露心声不感兴趣，发帖子进行嘲讽。
On the quiet Sunday that followed, Ms. Cho sat crossed-legged on the bed in her dark-wood-paneled room at the Maritime Hotel in Chelsea, wearing russet leggings and a black tank top, her high-density colored tattoos fanning up and out from her chest and down her arms. Her hair was cropped G.I.-short, and a glossy black wig splayed across the room’s narrow desk like a resting familiar.
在之后那个安静的周日，在切尔西海洋酒店(Maritime Hotel)镶着深色木板的客房里，赵牡丹盘腿坐在床上。她穿着褐色打底裤和黑色背心，胸部到胳膊上都是密密麻麻的彩色纹身。她的头发剪得像美国军人一样短，带有光泽的黑色假发趴在窄窄的书桌上，像一位正在休息的伴侣。
In New York to promote her PsyCHO show at Town Hall on Nov. 11 and her new song and video “(I Want to) Kill My Rapist,” which will debut on Nov. 13 on perezhilton.com, Ms. Cho said she was surprised (pleasantly) by the largely supportive response to what she said has never been much of a secret. “I’ve never had shame about it,” she said. “I’ve been talking about it all along, but nobody cared.”
她来纽约是宣传11月11日在市政厅上演的PsyCHO秀和11月13日在perezhilton.com上首播的新歌加录影带《（我想）杀了强奸我的人》([I Want to] Kill My Rapist)。赵牡丹说，她在Twitter上说的话也不算什么秘密，大部分的回复都是表示支持，这让她感到惊喜。“我从没觉得这事丢脸，”她说，“我经常提起它，没人当回事。”
Maybe people are taking notice because sex work is so visible in pop culture and social media these days, from the wholesome he-man success of “Magic Mike: XXL” to the recent Twitter-based interstate road trip of Zola, a story of stripping, hooking and “Showgirls”-level drama.
现在它引起人们的注意也许是因为，如今性工作在流行文化和社交媒体上十分常见，从《魔力麦克2》(Magic Mike: XXL)中健康男色的成功到最近在Twitter上疯传的关于佐拉(Zola)跨州公路之旅——一出集跳脱衣舞、卖身和艳舞女郎级别的精彩好戏于一身的故事。
Or perhaps it’s due to the stark power of Ms. Cho’s tweets themselves. Twenty-some years ago, before her comedy career took off, she paid the bills working first as a phone sex operator, then as a dominatrix, a job for which, she admitted, she was particularly ill-suited.
也可能是因为赵牡丹帖子本身的坦率。大约20年前，在她的喜剧事业尚未起步之前，她靠提供电话性爱为生，后来是提供性施虐服务；她承认，自己其实特别不适合这份工作。
“I was lazy,” she said. “I lacked empathy, and,” referencing the job’s requirement for administering floggings and other forms of corporal punishment that a client might request, “I had a bad arm.”
“我很懒，”她说，“没有同情心，下手不知轻重。”她指的是这种工作需要应客户的要求施以鞭打等体罚。
Dominatrixes sometimes operate quasi-legally, but the threat of arrest, as well as the stigma surrounding their actions is something Ms. Cho would like to see change, for all sex workers. With her series of tweets about life in the business — for example, “It’s hard work that’s not protected by law enforcement or unions. It’s unfair. We have the right to our bodies +work.”—it’s clear that Ms. Cho is driving toward advocacy.
性施虐服务是半合法的，但是仍有遭到逮捕的风险，加之她们的行为背负耻辱的恶名，赵牡丹希望这些都能有所改变。从她在Twitter上发布的关于这一行业生活的系列帖子来看，她显然是在推动性服务合法化。比如她曾发帖说：“这是一份辛苦的工作，却没有得到法律或工会的保护。这很不公平。我们有权支配自己的身体，决定自己的工作。”
She has her work cut out for her. Both sides of the sex-work debate have received a signal boost from social media, particularly on Twitter, where the respective sides square off in real time. It is not uncommon for discussions to deteriorate into a heated exchange over who is or isn’t a real feminist: the Godwin’s Law of women’s rights contretemps.
她面临着艰巨的挑战。无论是支持性工作还是反对性工作的一方，在社交媒体上都得到了推波助澜之势，特别是在Twitter上，双方摆开架势随时准备开战。讨论常常沦为关于谁才是真正的女权主义者的热烈辩论——戈德温法则(Godwin's Law)在关于女性权利的讨论中也同样适用。
Though Ms. Cho has said that sex work is just work, it’s a bit of a stretch to say it’s just a job. The sheer weight of the social stigma makes public activism by sex workers extremely difficult, to say nothing of the danger of working in legal twilight.
虽然赵牡丹说性工作只是一种职业，但是如果说它只是一份工作就有点不符其实。单是不光彩的名声就让性工作者感到很有压力，很难展开公共倡议行动，更别提在法律的模糊地带工作的危险性。
But change is possible. Last August, Amnesty International’s board voted to develop a policy to protect the rights of sex workers, including the decriminalization of all aspects of consensual sex work. That a widely respected global human-rights organization would support full decriminalization represents, for sex workers, a triumph of research-supported truth over moral outrage.
但改变是有可能发生的。去年8月，大赦国际(Amnesty International)的委员会投票决定制订一个政策，保护性工作者的权利，包括促进各种两厢情愿的性交易的合法化。对性工作者来说，这个广受尊敬的国际人权组织将支持性工作全面合法化代表着基于调查的真理战胜了道德愤慨。
“The ugliness and beauty that I saw made me think that sex workers are providing a valuable service to society,” Ms. Cho said of her dominatrix days. “We shouldn’t just be protected and legitimized. We should be worshiped.”
“我所看到的丑恶和美丽让我认为，性工作者在为社会提供一种有价值的服务，”赵牡丹提到自己提供性施虐服务的那段日子时说，“我们不仅应该得到保护，成为合法从业者，而且应该受到尊敬。”
But despite prostitution’s existence in virtually all cultures, there’s an almost universal aversion to the very idea of it. As Ms. Cho pointed out, while “ick” is a common visceral response, it is not particularly useful for developing public policy.
不过，尽管每个社会都存在性交易，但它几乎受到普遍的反感。正如赵牡丹所指出的，虽然“好恶心”是人们常见的本能反应，但它对制订公共政策并没有什么帮助。
“If you’re disgusted by sex work, if your impulse is to shame and to abolish, what are sex workers to do then?” Ms. Cho asked. “How can we continue to operate in shadows and secrecy when the shadows and the secrecy are what’s killing us?”
“如果你厌恶性工作，如果你凭直觉想要鄙视和废除它，那么性工作者又该去做什么工作呢？”赵牡丹说，“当阴暗和隐秘正是谋害我们的元凶，我们又要怎么才能继续在阴暗中隐秘地工作呢？”
As for why her status as a former sex worker is gaining notice now, Ms. Cho is nonplused. This, she said, is as fine a time as any to see her own experience featured in activist discourse. After all, she said, “there is no statute of limitations on the truth.”
赵牡丹也不知道为什么现在她从事过性服务的事又引起了人们的注意。她说，不管是现在还是其他时候，自己的经历能在社会活动中发挥作用都是一件好事。她说，毕竟，“真理没有诉讼时效。”