First, there was old-fashioned gambling on football. Then came the fantasy leagues. And now, thanks to Wall Street, fans can buy a stake in their favorite player.
先是有了老式的赌球，后来又出现了“梦幻联赛”。如今，多亏了华尔街，球迷们又能购买自己最喜爱球员的股票了。
On Thursday, a start-up company announced a new trading exchange for investors to buy and sell interests in professional athletes. Backed by executives from Silicon Valley, Wall Street and the sports world, the company plans to create stocks tied to an athlete’s financial performance.
周四，一家创业公司宣布将开设一个新的交易所，让投资者买卖职业运动员的股票。在硅谷、华尔街和体育界高管的支持下，该公司计划开发与运动员的财务表现绑定的股票。
After considering a number of possibilities for its inaugural initial public offering, the company found a charismatic candidate in Arian Foster, the Pro Bowl running back of the Houston Texans. Investors in the deal will receive stock linked to Mr. Foster’s future earnings, which includes the value of his playing contracts, corporate endorsements and appearance fees.
在考虑了首个首次公开募股（Initial Public Offering，简称IPO）的若干名可能人选后，该公司认为，休斯敦德州人队(Houston Texans)参加过职业碗(Pro Bowl)的跑卫阿里安·福斯特(Arian Foster)是一个有超凡魅力的球员。这只股票的投资者将会得到与福斯特的未来收入挂钩的股票。他将来的收入包括合同价值、企业代言和出场费。
The company, Fantex Holdings, has grand ambitions beyond a Foster I.P.O. — it hopes to sign up more football players and other athletes, as well as celebrities like pop singers and Hollywood actors.
这家名为Fantex Holdings的公司怀有的壮志，不仅限于发行与福斯特相关联的股票。它希望能签约更多橄榄球运动员和其他运动员，以及流行歌手和好莱坞演员之类的明星。
But if such an investment sounds speculative, that is because it is. In a filing for the Foster deal with securities regulators, Fantex laid out 37 pages of risk factors, including a possible career-ending injury or a performance slump.
如果这种投资听起来有些投机的意味，那是因为它的确就是投机。为了让福斯特上市而向证券监管机构提交的文件中，Fantex列出了长达37页的风险因素，包括可能终结其职业生涯的伤残，或者球场上的表现下滑。
“You are potentially one hit away from losing your money,” said Bradley Shear, a sports management professor at George Washington University. “On any given Sunday, anything can happen to any player.”
“你可能离赔钱只有一步之遥，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)体育管理教授布拉德利·谢尔(Bradley Shear)说，“在任何一个周日，任何一个球员身上都可能发生任何事。”
Risks aside, the offering is intended to capitalize on the mammoth popularity of the National Football League and fantasy football, where fans draft players and score points for touchdowns, yardage and other notable plays during the season.
抛开风险，发行这支股票意在利用美国职业橄榄球大联盟（National Football League，简称NFL）和“梦幻橄榄球”极高的人气。在“梦幻橄榄球”游戏中，球迷们可以挑选球员，并为触地、码数，以及赛季中的其他表现计分。
If thousands of fans are willing to pay as much as $250 for an Arian Foster jersey, the thinking goes, why wouldn’t they pay up for a few shares of Arian Foster stock?
如果成千上万的球迷愿意出250美元购买阿里安·福斯特的球衣，按照这种思路，他们为什么不会出钱买一些阿里安·福斯特的股票呢？
Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the N.F.L., declined to comment on the deal.
NFL发言人布莱恩·麦卡锡(Brian McCarthy)拒绝就这一交易发表评论。
Fantex wants its venture to be anything but make-believe. Investors can now register with the company and place orders for the I.P.O. The company will market the I.P.O. in the coming weeks, offering 1.06 million shares at $10 a share, or $10.6 million worth of stock. If demand is insufficient, the company may cancel the deal.
Fantex希望自己的冒险千万不要成了一场空。投资者现在可以去该公司注册并预购IPO的股票。公司将在未来几周推销这次IPO，以每股10美元的价格推出106万股，也就是价值1060万美元的股票。如果需求不足，公司可能会取消股票发行。
As for Mr. Foster, he will receive a $10 million payment from Fantex upon consummation of the offering. (The balance of the I.P.O. covers the deal’s costs.) In exchange for the payment, Mr. Foster has promised to pay Fantex 20 percent of his future earnings.
对福斯特而言，一旦完成股票发行，他将从Fantex获得1000万美元。（这次IPO筹集资金的结余用来支付交易的成本。）作为回报，福斯特承诺将自己未来收入的20%交给Fantex公司。
The company is effectively financing the $10 million payment to Mr. Foster by raising money from retail investors in an I.P.O. In its filings, Fantex says it believes that the stock is intended to track the economic performance of Mr. Foster’s future brand income.
Fantex公司实际上是在从参与IPO的散户投资者那里，筹集要付给福斯特的那1000万美元资金。在申报文件中，Fantex表示该公司认为，这支股票的意图是追踪福斯特未来品牌收入的经济效益。
Still, shareholders will not have a direct investment in Mr. Foster or any control over his brand. The company did say it expected to pay a dividend to holders of the Foster stock.
但股东并没有直接对福斯特投资，对其品牌也没有任何控制权，但该公司的确表示，打算向持有福斯特股票的股东分红。
Shares will trade exclusively on an exchange operated by Fantex. The tracking stock will increase in value if Mr. Foster raises his earnings potential with standout play or increased sponsorships.
股票只能在Fantex运作的一个交易所里交易。如果福斯特因为比赛出色或赞助增加而提高了自己的收入潜力，这支追踪股票就会升值。
Then, the investor can try to sell his shares at a higher price. Fantex will make a 1 percent commission from both the buyer and seller on the trades.
然后，投资者就可以试着以更高的价格出售自己持有的股票。Fantex则会从交易双方各收取1%的佣金。
Buck French, the company’s co-founder and chief executive, demurred when asked to predict how the stock might behave in a secondary market.
当有人请Fantex公司联合创始人及首席执行官巴克·弗伦奇(Buck French)预测这支股票在二级市场的表现时，他拒绝了。
“We don’t know how it will trade,” he said.
他说，“我们不知道股票将来的交易情况。”
A big question is whether other athletes are on the sidelines awaiting a Fantex I.P.O. Mr. French declined to discuss future deals.
一个重要问题是，是否有其他运动员在等着Fantex发行和自己关联的股票。弗伦奇也拒绝讨论将来可能发行的股票。
On one hand, athletes and their agents could view Fantex as a compelling proposition, providing athletes with a large upfront payment for giving up a certain percentage of their future earnings. Such a payment could act as a hedge against an unexpected downturn in a player’s career.
一方面，运动员及其经纪人可能会把Fantex当做一个有吸引力的选择：运动员放弃一定比例的未来收入，该公司便会预先向其支付一大笔钱。运动员的职业可能会出人意料地走下坡路，而这笔钱可以对冲这样的风险。
But advisers could counsel against trading a piece of their future earnings for a big lump sum, as athletes are notorious for squandering money.
但投资顾问们可能会建议，不要用一大笔钱换取运动员未来的一小部收入，因为运动员的肆意挥霍是出了名的。
Other considerations are the specter of insider trading violations, and complying with the federal securities laws. Mr. Foster, his friends and his financial team will have to be especially circumspect when discussing issues that might affect his earnings.
其他要考虑的因素包括对违规内幕交易的担忧，以及对联邦证券法的遵守。福斯特、他的朋友和他的财务团队在讨论可能会影响他收入的问题时，需要特别小心谨慎。
A fifth-year veteran from the University of Tennessee, Mr. Foster, 27, has led all running backs in rushing touchdowns two of the last three seasons, while racking up well over 1,000 yards each year. In March 2012, Houston signed Mr. Foster to a contract worth up to $43.5 million over five years. He has a handful of endorsement contracts, including with Under Armour and Kroger Texas.
27岁的福斯特来自田纳西大学(University of Tennessee)，是一名有5年经验的老将。在过去三个赛季中，他有两个赛季是所有的跑卫中跑动进攻触地得分最多的，每年接球都在1000码以上。2012年3月，休斯顿跟福斯特签了一份435万美元的5年期合同。他还为一些公司代言，比如有安德玛公司(Under Armour)，克罗格公司(Kroger)的德克萨斯分部。
Half Mexican-American, half black, Mr. Foster is a crowd favorite and media darling who trumpets his passions for poetry and yoga. When he scores, he clasps his hands together and strikes a namaste pose.
福斯特是一半墨西哥、一半黑人血统的美国人，既受到大众喜爱，也是媒体的宠儿，他喜欢宣扬自己对诗歌和瑜伽的热爱。当他得分时，会做出双手合十的动作。
“We see Arian as a unique, multidimensional individual, a trailblazer,” said Mr. French, who added that Fantex cold-called Mr. Foster’s agent to pitch the idea.
“我们觉得他是一个很独特、丰富的人，属于开拓型的，”弗伦奇说。他还说Fantex曾直接打电话给以前从未联系过的福斯特的经纪人，向他阐述公司的想法。
Yet during the first six weeks of this season, Mr. Foster’s production has flagged. He has just one rushing touchdown. Heading into the year, there was concern over various injuries. Off the field, Foster admitted in a documentary released in September that he potentially violated N.C.A.A. rules by accepting money when he was a college player.
然而，在本赛季的前六周，福斯特的势头有所减弱。他只有一次触地得分。今年，他的各种伤病也引起了一些关注。在场外，福斯特在9月发行的一部纪录片中承认，他在大学当球员期间接受了钱财，可能违反了NCAA的规定。
Those issues underscore the risk of betting on Mr. Foster’s brand, or that of any professional athletes, especially N.F.L. players. Unlike some other sports, N.F.L. contracts often are not fully guaranteed, meaning players are often cut and forced to find a new team, sometimes for a lesser contract.
这些问题突显了在福斯特品牌上押注的风险，或者说，在任何专业运动员品牌上投注的风险，尤其是NFL球员。跟其他一些运动项目不同，NFL合同往往不能充分得到保障，这就意味着球员常常被中止合同，不得不寻找新的球队，有时候新合同的待遇会降低。
Despite all the risks, some football fans appear poised to buy in. As one tweeted on Thursday after reading the news: “Wow. This is awesome.”
尽管有这些风险，一些球迷看起来还是挺买账的。周四，有人看到这条新闻后在Twitter上评论说：“哇！这太棒了。”