KATMANDU, Nepal — A blizzard and avalanche in Nepal’s Himalayas climbing region have killed at least 20 people, nearly half of them foreigners, in the midst of the October trekking season, district officials said Wednesday.
尼泊尔加德满都——地区官员周三称，正值10月份登山旺季，在尼泊尔的喜马拉雅山麓，一场暴风雪和雪崩导致至少20人遇难，其中近一半是外籍游客。
Dozens were reported missing and feared buried under snow and avalanche debris in the so-called Annapurna Circuit of central Nepal, a favored destination among mountaineer adventurers.
这场山难发生在尼泊尔中部所谓的安娜普纳环线(Annapurna Circuit)，有数十人失踪，人们担心他们可能是被埋在了积雪和雪崩碎片下。安娜普纳环线是登山探险者喜爱的一个目的地。
The death toll eclipsed the last major mountaineering disaster in Nepal’s Himalayas, when 16 Sherpa guides died in an avalanche six months ago on Mount Everest, the worst climbing calamity in Everest’s history.
这次的死亡人数超过了尼泊尔喜马拉雅山麓发生的上一次重大灾难：六个月前，在珠穆朗玛峰，16名夏尔巴人向导在雪崩中遇难。这是珠穆朗玛峰历史上最严重的山难。
It was believed that as many as 200 trekkers were caught by the latest weather, a freakish storm that began bearing down on the Annapurna region of the Himalayas on Tuesday, part of the aftermath of a cyclone that ravaged India’s eastern coast two days earlier.
据信有多达200名登山者因为这次的天气状况被困。这场反常的风暴周二开始侵袭喜马拉雅山的安娜普纳地区，它是两天前重创了印度东部海岸的气旋造成的。
Fearing the worst, friends and relatives of missing climbers reached out to each other via Facebook and Twitter. A Facebook page titled “Annapurna Nepal Avalanche and Blizzard Info Share” became a virtual bulletin board. “Our hearts and minds are on Annapurna, Nepal,” read the caption on a photo of snow-capped Annapurna, the world’s 10th highest peak.
失踪登山者的亲友们担心可能出现最坏的结果，他们通过Facebook和Twitter相互联系。标题为“安娜普纳尼泊尔雪崩和暴风雪信息分享”的Facebook页面成了一个虚拟布告栏。“我们的心思都在安娜普纳，”一张照片下的文字写道。照片上是积雪覆盖的安娜普纳峰，它是世界第十高峰。
While 22 people were rescued on Wednesday, heavy accumulations of snow — more than two feet in some areas — forced the Nepali Army and the police to suspend further rescue actions until Thursday.
尽管有22人于周三获救，但由于积雪太深，某些地区超过了两英尺，尼泊尔军队和警方不得不在周四前暂停进一步的搜救行动。
The army, guided by rescued trekkers, recovered 12 bodies near Thorong La, a pass along a popular trekking circuit, according to the Mustang chief district officer, Baburam Bhandari. The dead included two Israeli tourists and two Poles, as well as eight Nepali trekkers who were trapped in a blizzard.
木斯塘(Mustang)地区长官巴布拉姆·班达里(Baburam Bhandari)说，在获救的登山者的引领下，军方在驼龙垭口(Thorong La)附近找到了12具遗体。驼龙垭口位于一个热门登山线路上。遇难者包括两名以色列游客和两名波兰人，以及八名被暴风雪困住的尼泊尔登山者。
In Manang district, four Canadians and one Indian trekker were buried in an avalanche along the mountain pass. Their bodies will take days to dig out of the snow, said Devendra Lamichhane, the chief district officer in Manang.
在马南区，四名加拿大人和一名印度登山者在山口附近被雪崩掩埋。马南的首席地区官德文德拉·拉米车恩(Devendra Lamichhane)说，需要几天时间才能把他们的遗体从雪中挖掘出来。
Basant B. Hamal, the secretary general of the Himalayan Rescue Association Nepal, a nonprofit group that promotes safe mountaineering, said there might have been up to 200 trekkers making their way Tuesday afternoon from the peak of Thorong La, which is at nearly 18,000 feet, to the Muktinath temple, at about 12,000 feet, when the storm hit.
推广安全登山的非营利组织尼泊尔喜马拉雅山救援协会(Himalayan Rescue Association Nepal)的秘书长巴桑特·B·哈马尔(Basant B. Hamal)表示，周二下午，风暴来袭时，可能有多达200名登山者，从海拔1.8万英尺（约5500米）的坨龙垭峰，出发前往海拔1.2万英尺的穆格蒂纳特庙(Muktinath)。
Some trekkers were able to scramble down to safety at a tea stall nearby. Many were injured in the descent, while others were unable to escape the storm.
一些徒步者成功爬下山，安全到达附近的一个茶铺。很多人在下山的过程中受伤，其他人则没能逃脱风暴的侵袭。
Mr. Hamal said that the communication lines were down in much of the region because of the weather, but that he had managed to contact the temple on Tuesday, and was told that many trekkers had been arriving there with broken bones.
哈马尔表示，由于天气恶劣，该地区大部分区域的通讯线路都出现了故障，但他周二与那座庙宇取得了联系，得知很多登山者在抵达庙宇时已经骨折。
In the same district, the bodies of three yak herders who disappeared on Monday, swept away in a separate avalanche, were located, but rescuers were unable to recover them on Wednesday.
周一，三名放养牦牛的牧民被另一场雪崩掩埋。救援人员在同一地区发现了牧民的遗体，但他们在周三时，仍无法将遗体运回。
October is one of the most popular trekking months in Nepal, when thousands often visit because the weather is usually ideal for hiking.
10月是尼泊尔徒步旅行的旺季。由于此时的天气非常适合徒步，数以千计的游客会来到尼泊尔。