Slushies or frozen underwear — which is better for staying comfortable while exercising in the heat? That pressing question motivated a new study comparing different ways of dealing with workouts in summertime temperatures. It concludes that precooling with ice is helpful, but the benefits depend on where you put the ice.
随着炎夏的到来，在高温下锻炼时也能保持舒适感愈发成为人们追求的目标，那么，是喝冰沙还是穿冰内衣更有效呢？一项新研究在比较了夏天锻炼时应对高温的不同方法后得出了结论：冰预冷处理确实有用，但具体的效益如何还要取决于你把冰放在何处。
Exercising in the heat is more draining than most of us may remember, given this year’s long, chilly winter and spring in most of the country. When ambient temperatures rise, the body must deal with high internal and skin temperatures during exercise.
鉴于今年美国大部分地区的冬春两季都漫长而寒冷，今夏美国人在锻炼时可能会比记忆中的任何时候都更容易汗流浃背。当环境温度升高时，人体必须应对运动过程中身体内部和皮肤的高温。
In response, the body sweats more, which allows for evaporative cooling from the skin, and also shunts blood away from the core and toward the skin to release additional heat.
相应的，人体会大量出汗，通过汗液从皮肤的蒸发过程达到冷却效果；同时，减少身体核心部位的血流量，增大体表的血流量，以释放额外的热量。
These processes, while effective at removing heat from the body, increase strain on the heart and reduce the flow of blood and oxygen to working muscles, which can make a workout that was easy when the weather was cool feel grueling.
这些过程虽然可以有效地给身体散热，但它们会加重心脏的负担，减少对肌肉的供血和供氧，于是，人会觉得本来在凉爽的天气中可以轻松完成的运动变得吃力起来。
So, many athletes and scientists have begun experimenting with a technique called precooling that involves lowering the body’s temperature before a workout and, presumably, allowing someone to exercise more comfortably afterward, since the body starts from a lower baseline.
因此，许多运动员和科学家开始实验一种预冷技术，降低锻炼前人体的体温，也即降低了身体升温的基线值，以期在让人在锻炼时可以感觉更加舒适。
You can precool in many ways, with frigid showers, a cooling vest or shorts, an icy drink, and so on. Some of these techniques lower skin temperatures. Others — primarily those that involve ingesting ice — drop the temperature of your core.
预冷可以有多种方式，比如冲冷水澡、穿降温背心或短裤、喝冷饮等等。其中一些技术能降低皮肤的温度，其他的（主要是涉及摄取冰品的那些）则可以降低你的核心体温。
Past studies have shown that, in broad terms, such precooling works and you can exercise in the heat for longer periods of time and at a higher intensity than if you do not first chill out.
既往的研究表明，从广义上讲，此类预冷措施是有效的，与不事先降温相比，它能帮助你在高温下以更高的强度锻炼更长的时间。
But whether some types of precooling are more effective than others, and in particular whether cooling your skin would or would not be better than cooling your core, had remained unclear.
但是，某些类型的预冷措施是否比其他的更为有效，尤其是降低体表温度是否优于降低核心体温，都还没有定论。
For the new study, which was published this month in the Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports, researchers with the Environmental Extremes Laboratory at the University of Brighton in England invited 12 experienced male runners to visit a humid and overheated lab room, where the thermostat was set to about 90 degrees, on three separate occasions.
在这项本月初发表在《斯堪的纳维亚运动医学与科学期刊》(Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports)上的新研究中，英国布赖顿大学(University of Brighton)极端环境实验室(Environmental Extremes Laboratory)的研究人员邀请了12名经验丰富的男性跑步者从三种不同的状况下进入潮湿炎热的实验室房间（室温设定为恒温华氏90度[约合32摄氏度]）。
During each visit, the men ran strenuously for about 30 minutes on a treadmill while the scientists monitored their core and skin temperatures, heart rates, blood lactate levels, feelings about how hot they felt and other measures.
志愿者在每次来访时都被要求在跑步机上奋力跑步约30分钟，在此期间，科学家们监测了他们的核心体温和皮肤温度、心率、血乳酸水平、他们感觉热的程度及其它指标。
Before one of these runs, the men sat quietly in the heated lab for 20 minutes, sipping a room temperature, sweetened beverage.
其中一次跑步前，研究人员让志愿者们先在炎热的实验室里静坐了20分钟，并饮用室温下的甜饮料。
Twenty minutes before another of the runs, they drank about 16 ounces of a sweetened slushy drink, which quickly and significantly lowered their core temperatures. (The researchers used slushies because sugar mixed with ice lowers the temperature of the resulting beverage more than if it were shaved ice alone.)
在另一次跑步前20分钟时，志愿者们饮用了约16盎司（约合454克）的甜味冰沙，这种饮料可迅速显著地降低核心体温（研究人员使用冰沙的原因是糖与冰制成的混合饮料的温度低于单纯用刨冰制成的饮料）。
Finally, 20 minutes before a third run, the volunteers elaborately lowered their skin temperatures by draping cold, wet towels around their neck, sticking one arm into cold water, donning a frozen cooling vest, and slipping on underwear equipped with frozen ice packs at the thighs. Not surprisingly, their skin temperature fell considerably.
在第三次跑步前20分钟，志愿者们采用了多种方式以降低体表温度：冲凉、将湿毛巾绕在脖子上、把手臂插入冷水中、穿上经过冷冻的降温背心和大腿处带有冷冻冰袋的短裤等。他们的皮肤温度毫不意外地大大下降了。
Then the men ran.
然后，他们开始跑步。
The results were interesting. Compared with when they did not precool, the men could sustain a higher relative intensity during the early part of their run after drinking the slushie or cooling their skin, and they reported feeling much less hot, especially after the skin cooling.
最后的结果非常有趣。在跑步的初期阶段，与没有预冷措施相比，饮用过冰沙或进行过皮肤降温后，志愿者们的运动强度可以保持在较高的水平，他们自己也报告称感觉不会像前者那样热的厉害，其中尤其以皮肤降温的效果更为明显。
But by the end of each run, their core and skin temperatures were about the same, whether they had precooled or not, meaning that the benefits of precooling had been short-lived.
但到了快跑完时，无论事先是否进行过预冷处理，志愿者们的核心体温和皮肤温度都大致相同，这意味着预冷的效益十分短暂。
More surprising, while the men’s skin temperatures had climbed slowly after they had precooled with towels and vests and such, their core temperature had risen precipitously after the icy drink, faster even than with no precooling, suggesting that core cooling may wear off more rapidly than skin cooling, at least while running.
更出人意料的是，虽然在使用毛巾和背心之类预冷后，志愿者们的皮肤温度上升较为缓慢，但在饮用冷饮后，他们的核心体温却会急剧上升——其速度甚至比没有预冷还要快，这表明，身体核心部位的冷却效果比体表消失得更快，至少在跑步时是如此。
In the simplest terms, the upshot of the study, said Carl A. James, a doctoral candidate at the University of Brighton who led the experiment is that “if you can make people feel cooler, they generally run faster.”
该实验的负责人，布莱顿大学的博士生卡尔·A·詹姆斯(Carl A. James)说，简而言之，本研究的结果表明：“人在感到凉爽时通常跑得更快。”
But the results also indicate that if you use only one type of precooling, you might want to concentrate on icing your skin instead of your stomach, since the effects seem to linger longer.
此外，研究结果还表明，如果只准备采用一种预冷手段，那么你应该侧重于皮肤而非胃部，因为前者的效果可以持续较长的时间。
On the other hand, for maximal effect, you could drink a slushie while wearing a chilled towel, vest and shorts and sticking your arm into a bowl of ice, Mr. James said, a labor-intensive chilling regimen that he hopes to study in the future.
另一方面，如果想要达到最佳效果，你不妨多管齐下：既饮用冰沙，也披挂冰毛巾、穿戴冰背心和冰短裤，再把你的手臂插入冰中。詹姆斯先生说，他希望能在未来的实验中研究这一“劳动密集型”冷却方案。
Realistically, few of us will go such extremes. Instead, to feel and perform a bit better outside as temperatures rise, drape a frozen towel around your neck about 20 minutes before you start exercising or, if you prefer, have a slushie, Mr. James said.
实际上，很少有人会去走这样的极端。詹姆斯先生建议，如果你希望在室外的高温下运动得更舒服，也更有效率，不妨在锻炼前拿冰毛巾在脖子上挂个20来分钟，或者，如果你愿意的话，喝杯冰沙也行。
The effects won’t last. But for a little while, you will be cooler.
虽然效果无法持久，但至少能让你凉快一小段时间。