White. Pink. Blue. Yellow.
白的。粉的。蓝的。黄的。
On restaurant tables everywhere, the colors of the sweetener packets instantly identify the contents.
走进随便一家餐馆，凭着桌子上甜味剂包装的颜色，你可以立即知道里面装的是什么。
Sugar. Saccharin. Aspartame. Sucralose.
糖。糖精。阿斯巴甜。蔗糖素。
Reaching for one to pour into a cup of coffee or tea can sometimes feel like sweetener roulette, with the swirl of confusing, conflicting assertions about which are safe and which are not.
从中挑选哪一种倒进咖啡杯或茶杯？有时候，那感觉就像是在玩轮盘赌。各种关于甜味剂安全性或不安全性的说法令人迷惑，而且互相矛盾。
Alissa Kaplan Michaels, for one, never picks pink. She still associates saccharin with cancer. The Food and Drug Administration sought to ban it in the 1970s, because rats that gorged on the chemical developed bladder cancer.
比如说，阿莉莎·卡普兰·迈克尔斯(Alissa Kaplan Michaels)就从来不选粉色。她仍认为糖精可能致癌。20世纪70年代，美国食品药品管理局(The Food and Drug Administration)试图禁止使用糖精，因为家鼠在大量摄入该种化学物质后患上了膀胱癌。
But Congress imposed a moratorium to delay the ban, and the pink packets of Sweet’N Low remained on restaurant tables. The F.D.A. withdrew its ban proposal in 1991, and the warnings were taken off saccharin in 2000 after research showed that it acts differently in rats and humans, and no conclusive increase in cancers was observed in people. Ms. Michaels, a public relations consultant in New York, knows this.
但美国国会决定暂缓该项禁令，因此，粉红色包装的纤而乐(Sweet’N Low)牌代糖仍留在餐厅的桌子上。美国食品药品管理局1991年撤回了该项禁令申请，2000年，当研究显示糖精在家鼠体内的作用机制与人体内的不同、在人群中没有确实证据显示癌症发病率上升后，关于糖精的警告标示也被取消了。在纽约从事公共关系顾问工作的迈克尔斯女士知道这件事。
But, she said, “It’s the cancer in the rats. I can’t get that out of my head.”
但她表示，“关键在于家鼠的确会患癌。我没法把这置之脑后。”
Although many people have nagging worries about artificial sweeteners, they still use mountains of them — globally, artificial sweeteners are a $1.5-billion-a-year market — to avoid sugar and calories.
尽管许多人都对人造甜味剂心怀疑虑，为了避免摄入糖和热量，他们仍大量使用这类化学物质——全球范围内，人造甜味剂的年市场总额高达15亿美元（约合92亿元人民币）。
The scientific world is also a dichotomy of conclusions. For any of the sweeteners, one can as easily find a study that offers reassuring analysis of safety as one that enumerates potential alarming effects. And it is possible that there could be long-term effects in humans that will become evident only after people have been consuming these sweeteners for decades.
科学界的结论也分成了两派。随便哪种甜味剂，你都可以轻而易举地找出一项信誓旦旦保证其安全性的研究，同时发现另外一项详尽列举种种潜在危害性的研究。此外，甜味剂对于人体的长期效果很可能需要在服用数十年后才变得明显。
Thus hearsay, mythology and whim guide the choices of many people.
因此，主导许多人甜味剂选择的往往是奇谈怪论、道听途说和异想天开。
For Ms. Michaels, childhood impressions trump absolution from the F.D.A.
对于迈克尔斯女士而言，儿时的印象要比食品药品管理局的决定管用得多。
She even carries in her purse packets of her sweetener of choice — sucralose, sold as Splenda — for those occasions when a restaurant has run out of it and she might otherwise confront a choice between pink and blue. “I’m a yellow girl,” she said.
她甚至在提包里常备自己选中的甜味剂——商品名为善品糖(Splenda)的蔗糖素——以防有时候餐厅里的蔗糖素用光了，而她不得不从粉红色和蓝色中选择一样。“我是那种偏爱黄色的女孩，”她说。
Hundreds of millions of people swallow food and drinks containing artificial sweeteners, and so far, no widespread calamities of health have swept over them.
数以千万计的人们狼吞虎咽下含有人工甜味剂的食物和饮料，迄今为止，还没有大规模的健康灾难落在这些人头上。
The F.D.A. places the three main artificial sweeteners available today in the same category: “generally recognized as safe.” The manufacturers cite multitudes of health studies to back up that assertion.
美国食品药品管理局将目前市场上的三种主要人工甜味剂列入同一类：“公认安全”。制造商援引众多健康研究证明这一说法。
“Based on conventional food safety considerations, the scientific community feels that these have been very adequately tested for any potential toxicities,” said Dr. Gary M. Williams, a professor of pathology at New York Medical College who has been involved in safety reviews of artificial sweeteners, some financed by the manufacturers. “I drink diet soda. I don’t need the calories. My favorite is Fresca, and actually I don’t know what’s in it.”
“按照常规的食品安全标准，科学界认为甜味剂已经被充分检测以排除存在任何潜在毒性的可能，”纽约医学院(New York Medical College)的病理学教授加里·M·威廉斯(Gary M. Williams)医生表示。他本人曾参与数种人工甜味剂的安全评估工作，其中一些由甜味剂制造商资助。“我喝无糖可乐，我不需要卡路里。弗雷斯卡(Fresca)汽水是我个人最爱，而且说真的，我不知道里面到底有什么。”
Part of Dr. Williams’s confidence about safety is that the artificial sweeteners are much more intensely sweet than sugar, so people consume very little of them. Most of the white stuff in the packets is filler, not sweetener. Safety tests in animals looked at doses that were hundreds or thousands of times higher.
威廉斯医生关于安全性的信心部分源于人工甜味剂比糖的甜度要高得多，因此人们摄入量非常小。包装里大部分的白色物质事实上只是填充剂而非甜味剂。动物安全试验所使用的剂量比这要高出成百上千倍。
But critics — particularly of aspartame, sold as Equal or NutraSweet — say that health problems like headaches, neurological disorders and cancers are occurring, but that regulators are ignoring them.
但批评者——尤其是针对商品名为怡口(Equal)或纽特健康糖(NutraSweet)的阿斯巴甜的批评者表示，诸如头痛、神经失调和癌症等健康问题确有发生，但监管部门却对此无动于衷。
The Center for Science in the Public Interest, a health advocacy group, slaps an “avoid” label on saccharin and aspartame, but deems sucralose and neotame — a newer, more intense sweetener that is chemically similar to aspartame — to be safe. The center also warns against acesulfame potassium, a less common sweetener that is rarely found in tabletop packets but is combined with other sweeteners in soda and baked goods for a more sugarlike taste. Dr. Williams’s favorite soda, Fresca, for example, is sweetened with acesulfame potassium and aspartame, as are Halls sugar-free cough drops.
健康倡议组织公共利益科学中心(Center for Science in the Public Interest)对于在糖精和阿斯巴甜包装上加上“避免使用”标注的做法鼓掌叫好，但认为与阿斯巴甜在化学结构上相似、不过甜度更高的新一代甜味剂蔗糖素和纽甜糖(neotame)是安全的。该中心还对另一种较不常见的甜味剂安赛蜜发出警告。虽然它很少以餐桌上使用的小包装形式出现，但却与其他甜味剂一道用于碳酸饮料和烘焙食品，以求口感上更接近白糖。例如，威廉斯医生最中意的饮料“弗雷斯卡”便使用了安赛蜜和阿斯巴甜。这两种甜味剂也被用于荷氏(Halls)无糖润喉糖。
For those who turn to stevia, a sweetener derived from a plant, the center gives it a “caution,” because cancer studies were conducted in only one species of lab animals. (“Just because a substance is natural does not mean that it is safe,” the center’s Web site warns.)
对于那些选择使用提取自植物的甜味剂甜菊糖(stevia)的人，该中心给出“小心使用”的建议，因为针对此种甜味剂的致癌性研究仅选择了一种实验动物作为对象。（“某种物质是天然的并不一定意味着它就是安全的，”该中心的网站警告说。）
A Google search instantly turns up worries that many have about the various sweeteners: Does NutraSweet cause brain cancer? Is Splenda really in the same chemical family as DDT? What about the studies that suggest that artificial sweeteners, despite their dearth of calories, cause weight gain?
用谷歌搜索一下，立刻会让许多人对于多种甜味剂产生疑虑：纽特健康糖会不会导致脑癌？善品糖真的和滴滴涕(DDT)同属一类化学物质吗？怎么解释那些关于人工甜味剂尽管不含热量但一样会导致体重增加的研究？
Dr. Walter Willett, chairman of the nutrition department at the Harvard School of Public Health, says people can make rational decisions, taking into account risks and uncertainty. “The world is almost never black and white, and we rarely operate with absolute certainty about anything,” he said. “What is most important is to avoid risks that are large and clear, like smoking, obesity and regular consumption of full-strength soda.”
哈佛公共卫生学院(Harvard School of Public Health)营养系主任沃尔特·威利特(Walter Willett)医生指出，综合评估风险和不确定性后，人们可以做出理性选择。“世界从来不是非黑即白，我们也很少对某件事有绝对把握之后才去做，”他说。“最重要的是避免那些已经明确的大的风险，比如吸烟、肥胖和经常摄入高能量碳酸饮料。”
Chemical Concerns
化学隐忧
Saccharin, aspartame, sucralose and acesulfame potassium are all molecules that sidle up to certain proteins on the surface of the tongues, tickling neurons that then send a signal that exclaims to the brain: “Sweet!”
糖精、阿斯巴甜、蔗糖素和安赛蜜都属于某种可以与舌头表面的特定蛋白质巧妙结合的化学分子，它们可以刺激神经元发送信号，对着大脑高叫：“好甜呀！”
The concerns arise over what happens to the artificial sweeteners after they are swallowed.
问题在于，这些化学甜味剂被吃下去后，会发生些什么？
Consider aspartame. It is essentially two amino acids and a molecular snippet known as a methyl ester. Certain people — about 1 in 25,000 in the United States — have a genetic condition that prevents them from metabolizing one of the amino acids, phenylalanine, and those people are warned away from aspartame.
拿阿斯巴甜来说吧，它实际上由两个氨基酸和一个被称为甲酯的分子片段构成。某些人——在美国约为2.5万分之一——患有无法代谢其中一种氨基酸苯丙氨酸的遗传性疾病，这些人被建议远离阿斯巴甜。
Many foods contain the same two amino acids, in higher quantities. “It’s not like these are totally foreign, unique substances,” Dr. Willett said. “It doesn’t absolutely prove they’re harmless, but it makes it less likely that there’s a huge surprise waiting for us.”
这两种氨基酸在许多食物中都大量存在。“它们并不是完全特异性的成分，”威利特医生指出，“这并不是为它们完全无害下定论，但至少不太可能有让人大吃一惊的结论等着我们。”
Others look at the same components of aspartame and see poisons. The two amino acids, while essential for the human diet, cause problems when present out of balance, they say.
另外一些人却从阿斯巴甜的成分中看到了毒素。他们指出，这两种氨基酸虽然是人类膳食必不可少的组成部分，但在失衡状况下却会导致问题。
The third part, the methyl ester, turns into methanol, which is a poison — though fruit juices have higher concentrations of methanol. Woodrow C. Monte, emeritus professor of nutrition at the University of Arizona, ascribes a host of ills, including multiple sclerosis, to low-level methanol poisoning.
而构成阿斯巴甜的第三种成分——甲酯——可以转化为有毒的甲醇。不过，果汁中也含有很高浓度的甲醇。亚利桑那大学(University of Arizona)荣休教授伍德罗·C·蒙特(Woodrow C. Monte)认为包括多发性硬化症在内的一系列疾病都与低剂量甲醇中毒有关。
The scientific literature contains findings that can alarm or reassure. A huge study at a cancer research institute in Italy found that rats given aspartame had higher rates of leukemia and lymphomas. The National Cancer Institute in Maryland, however, reviewed health data from a half a million retirees and found no correlation between beverages with aspartame and these cancers.
相关研究的科学文献有的让人提高警惕，有的又令人放心。意大利某癌症研究所进行的大型研究发现，服用阿斯巴甜的家鼠患白血病和淋巴瘤的几率更高。然而，位于马里兰州的美国国家癌症研究所(The National Cancer Institute)对50万名退休老人的健康数据进行回顾后，没有发现摄入含有阿斯巴甜的饮料与癌症之间存在联系。
Meanwhile, sucralose, as the Splenda manufacturer, McNeil Nutritionals, notes in its advertising, starts out as sugar. Chemical reactions excise bits of the sugar molecules and replace them with chlorine atoms. The chlorine effectively camouflages the molecules, and most pass through the body undigested. Hence, zero calories. But some wonder if the chlorine in the sucralose molecules that are absorbed by the body might cause a problem. Michael F. Jacobson, the executive director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, said the animal testing of sucralose was sufficient for a “safe” rating.
与此同时，正如善品糖的制造商麦克尼尔营养公司(McNeil Nutritionals)在广告中指出的，蔗糖素本来就是从糖转化而来的。化学反应除掉糖分子中的一部分，然后代之以氯原子。这种行之有效的改头换面可以让绝大多数糖分子未经消化而直接排出体外。因此，卡路里为零。但也有人担心，蔗糖素分子中的氯一旦被人体吸收，便可能导致问题。公共利益科学中心的执行主任迈克尔·F·雅各布森(Michael F. Jacobson)表示，蔗糖素的动物实验结果已足以将其列为“安全”一级。
The durability of sucralose molecules gives rise to a different concern. Measurable levels of sucralose have been found in the water supply, raising questions about what happens to various animals when they consume it.
但蔗糖素分子的稳定性引起了新的疑虑。在自来水中检测到了蔗糖素的存在，这令人担心，多种动物摄入这种化学成分后会有什么后果。
Weighing the Risks
衡量风险
With the questions about artificial sweeteners, some may even wonder: How bad is sugar, anyway?
既然人工甜味剂问题多多，有些人或许会问：糖到底有多糟糕？
White sugar offers the purest taste of sweetness. It is natural. But its deleterious health effects are the best established: It can make you fatter.
白糖的甜味最纯正。它是自然的。但它对健康的负面作用也是最确凿无疑的：它会让你发胖。
Research published last year that analyzed health data on more than 100,000 nurses in the United States over nearly a quarter-century found a strong correlation between weight gain and consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and desserts. There was no weight gain for those who drank beverages with artificial sweeteners.
去年发表的一项研究对10万余名美国护士逾四分之一世纪的综合健康数据进行分析，结果显示，体重增加与摄入含糖饮料和甜品之间存在正相关。喝含有人工甜味剂的无糖饮料的人体重没有增加。
Obesity leads to numerous health problems — diabetes, heart disease, even cancer. Sugary drinks like soda (fruit juices, too) particularly contribute to weight gain. Usually, if the diet changes, hunger signals adjust to ensure proper nutrition. But the human digestive system seems to overlook liquid calories. Someone who drinks the 140 calories in a 12-ounce can of Coke will not subconsciously eliminate 140 calories elsewhere in the diet.
肥胖导致大量健康问题——糖尿病、心脏病，甚至是癌症。含糖的碳酸饮料（果汁也不例外）尤其会令体重增加。通常，当饮食结构发生变化时，对食物的饥饿信号也会相应调整，确保摄入充足营养。但人类的消化系统似乎对液体卡路里太轻敌了。从12盎司（合340克）听装可口可乐中摄入了140卡路里的人并不会下意识地从别的地方把这140卡路里省出来。
“Liquid calories seem to be different, and that’s why they’re so problematic,” Dr. Willett said. “Many foods contribute to weight gain, but it does appear that sugar-sweetened beverages are the single, by far, most important problem.” (That reasoning led to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s proposal to ban the sale of large sugary sodas in New York City while allowing mega-size diet sodas.)
“液体卡路里的作用机制似乎有所不同，正因为如此，它们才特别成问题，”威利特医生指出。“许多食物会导致体重增加，但迄今为止，含糖饮料看来是最严重的问题。”（正因为这样，纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)才提议禁止在该市销售大瓶装含糖碳酸饮料，但却对超大瓶装的无糖碳酸饮料放行。）
Dr. Willett said the long-term safety of the artificial sweeteners remained an open question. “It’s interesting to keep in mind, if you smoke cigarettes, the lung cancer risk doesn’t go up for 30 years,” he said. “And that’s a really powerful carcinogen. A lot of things don’t show up for several decades.”
威利特医生表示，人工甜味剂的长期安全性仍有待证实。“记住一个有趣的事实，如果你抽烟的话，肺癌风险直到30年后才会增加，”他说，“可烟草确实为强致癌物。很多事要到几十年后才会见分晓。”
He also noted that trans fats, used since 1900, did not show up on the radar of doctors’ concerns until the 1990s. “It took us about 90 years to discover it was a big problem,” Dr. Willett said. “It’s a bit sobering how long that took.”
他还指出，自1900年开始使用的反式脂肪直到20世纪90年代才引起医学界的关注。“我们花了近90年时间才发现反式脂肪是个大问题，”威利特医生说，“想想这漫长的过程，足以让人变得清醒。”
In terms of relative risk — the known dangers of sugar and weight gain versus the uncertainties of artificial sweeteners — “artificially sweetened beverages are much less bad than the full-sugar beverages,” Dr. Willett said. Still, diet sodas are less than optimal. “I view them like a nicotine patch,” he said.
关于相对危险的问题——糖和体重增加的已知危险相对于人工甜味剂的未知风险，威利特医生如是说：“和完全使用糖增甜的饮料相比，人工甜味剂饮料没那么糟糕。”但是，无糖碳酸饮料远非最优选择。“在我看来，它们和尼古丁戒烟贴片差不多，”他说。
The better solution to protect health: Eat and drink less sweet stuff.
保护健康的最佳解决方案是，少喝饮料，少吃甜食。