We have watched Eminem age, all of us, difficult as it has been. We’ve seen him lash out at his mother, his then-wife, and his fans. We’ve seen him soften ever so slightly under the weight of fatherhood. We’ve seen him court protest, then express befuddlement over the hubbub. We’ve seen him retreat into drugs, and then climb out of the morass.
我们所有人都目睹了艾米纳姆(Eminem)艰难地度过岁月。我们见到他痛骂自己的母亲、当时的妻子以及歌迷。我们见到他在成为人父后也不过温和下来一点点。我们见到他招惹争议，然后又对自己激起的喧哗表示迷惘。我们见到他逃进毒品的世界，之后又从困境中爬出来。
Despite all this, we have barely seen Eminem grow up. His preoccupations are largely fixed, his toolbox constant. He has almost certainly been the greatest technician working in hip-hop over the last decade and a half, but those skills — an outrageous command of language, a gift for harrowing storytelling — are often put in service of the familiar.
尽管发生了这一切，我们还是很难看到艾米纳姆的成长。他的偏见已经大体固定下来，他常用的手段一成不变。他是过去15年来hip-hop界最伟大的歌手，技巧娴熟，这一点几乎已经毫无疑问。但他那令人惊异的语言方式与讲述悲惨故事的才华，经常用来表现相似的主题。
Eminem is 41 now and still staring down the same barrels of old on “The Marshall Mathers LP 2” (Aftermath/Shady/Interscope), his relentless, demanding and often convincing seventh major-label album. Notionally it’s a sequel to his second major-label album, from 2000, which has sold more than 10 million copies in this country and remains one of his indelible pop masterpieces. But really he’s been staying the same course for years.
艾米纳姆今年41岁，在《马歇尔·马瑟斯 LP2》(Marshall Mathers，Aftermath/Shady/Interscope)中，他还是在面对老问题。这是他入主大厂牌后推出的第7张专辑，不屈不挠、要求极高，大部分歌曲都很有说服力。理论上，这是他于2000年推出的进入大厂牌后的第二张专辑的续集，当年那张专辑在美国卖出了1000万张，至今仍是他不可磨灭的流行经典。但多年来他其实还是在原地踏步。
The themes here are the usual — the persistent disapproval of his mother (“Brainless”), the absence of his father (“Rhyme or Reason”), the lack of trustworthiness of the women he invites into his life (“So Much Better”). From the beginning, his pure essence has been puerility, and much of this album, for better and worse, finds him frozen.
新专辑中的主题还是老一套——对母亲一贯的责难（《无脑》[Brainless]）、抱怨父亲的缺席（《韵脚或理由》[Rhyme or Reason]）、他找的女人不值得信任（《好多了》[So Much Better]）。从一开始，他最纯粹的本质就在于幼稚，在这张专辑的大部分歌曲里，不管好坏，他还是没有变。
What this album does differently, in places, is attempt to sew up old wounds. Part of “Bad Guy” is written as a revenge fantasy from the perspective of Matthew, the younger brother of the rabid fan in “Stan,” one of Eminem’s most affecting songs. The moving “Headlights” is Eminem’s apology to his mother for years of verbal abuse, his plea for a united, or at least less dysfunctional, family.
这张专辑的不同之处在于，有些地方也尝试了弥合旧伤口。《斯坦》(Stan)是艾米纳姆最动人的歌曲之一，里面有一个狂热的歌迷，新专辑里的《坏家伙》(Bad Guy)是以这个歌迷的弟弟马修的视角写下的一首复仇幻想曲。动人的《前灯》(Headlights)是艾米纳姆对多年辱骂母亲的道歉，他渴求一家团聚，至少也不要这样支离破碎。
On one song with a vulgar title, he rewrites the story of his ascent with an overlay of regret: “Came to the world at a time when it was in need of a villain,” he raps, continuing:
在一首名称不雅的歌里，他带着悔恨之情重温了自己的发迹史：“这世界需要一个流氓，我恰巧就在这时来了，”他接着来了一段说唱：
That role think I succeeded fulfilling
我觉得我圆满胜任了这个角色。
But don’t think I ever stopped to think that I was speaking to children
但是别以为我不知道自己也在对孩子们说话。
Everything was happening so fast it was like I blinked, sold three million
一切发生得太快，眨眼就卖出三百万。
Then it all went blank.
然后又变成一片空白。
He has regrets, then, which is reassuring in a way. But like most savants, Eminem is interested in pyrotechnics above all else — “Rap God” and “Berzerk,” especially, are overwhelming barrages of rhyme. His lyrics are best viewed under a microscope — to see how each syllable functions not only in its own line, but how it plays with the ones just before and after, to emphasize the persistent double-entendres and the unending assonance, to see how he gets from one rhyme to the next in unexpected ways.
他感到悔憾，在某种程度上很令人安慰。但和大多数专家一样，艾米纳姆还是对炫技最感兴趣——在《说唱之神》(Rap God)和《波泽克》(Berzerk)两首歌里最为明显，它们是压倒性的韵脚轰炸。他的歌词在仔细审视之下最为精彩——每个音节不仅在它所在的句子里发挥作用，也和之前与之后的句子联合起来产生效果，强调持续不断的双关语，以及无穷无尽的和谐音。他还能让两个韵脚以出人意料的方式组合在一起。
Because of that, often the music he’s rapping to barely matters — he’ll dominate almost any sound. Over the course of his career, he’s succeeded most when his production is either whimsical, on his earliest hits, or dolorous, on his latest. Both styles appear here.
因此，伴奏音乐几乎无关紧要，他的说唱几乎可以凌驾于任何声音之上。在他的整个事业生涯里，早期那些异想天开的金曲和最近那些悲哀伤感的歌曲都堪称最成功的时刻。二者都在这张新专辑里体现出来了。
Rihanna rescues him again on “The Monster” — her blank power elevates his scratchy ramblings, and the melancholy piano on “Legacy” seems to calm him a bit. On “Love Game,” he uses a Wayne Fontana & the Mindbenders sample the way the Native Tongues might have, for a dose of oddity, while on “So Far...,” he’s rapping over Joe Walsh’s “Life’s Been Good” for a track that, were it not for all the bleeping it would need, could be easily played on Country Music Television.
蕾哈娜(Rihanna)再一次在《怪物》(Monster)这首歌中拯救了他——她那茫然的力量烘托了他粗糙的长篇大论。在《遗产》(Legacy)里，多愁善感的钢琴似乎让他平静了一点。在《爱的游戏》里，他用韦尼·方塔纳与“心智改变者”(Wayne Fontana & the Mindbenders)的歌最采样，很像“母语”(Native Tongues)的做法。有点怪异的是，在《迄今……》(So Far…)里，他在一个音轨里一再念叨着乔·威尔士(Joe Walsh)的《生活已经变好》(Life’s Been Good)，要不是有那么多会被屏蔽掉的话，简直可以在乡村音乐电视台里播出了。
Those songs are only a reminder that Eminem has never settled on a musical aesthetic, only a strategy of rhyme. “Brainless,” which could have been played on “The Dr. Demento Show,” is immediately followed here by “Stronger Than I Was,” which is a virtually unlistenable agglomeration of shrieks and atonal singing, the rare moment where Eminem’s rage outright trumps his dexterity.
这些歌只是提醒你，艾米纳姆从来不满足于停留在一种音乐美学，或一种押韵方式之中。《无脑》可以在“德门托博士秀”(The Dr. Demento Show)上演出，其后紧跟的就是《比以前更强》(Stronger Than I Was)，它其实是由尖叫和走调的歌唱组成的一大团东西，根本没法听，在这首歌里，艾米纳姆少见地将愤怒置于技巧之上。
The only signs of maturity he’s showing are the flickers of self-doubt that pepper this album. He frets about not having his old pop culture subjects to rap about — “I’m frustrated ’cause ain’t/no more ’NSync, Now I’m all out of whack/I’m all outta Backstreet Boys to call out and attack” — or not being as in touch as he once was. He stresses over having to find music on the Internet.
专辑中不时流露出自我怀疑的色彩，显示出仅有的成熟迹象。他抱怨过去充当说唱乐靶子的流行文化已经不再回来——“我觉得泄气/不再有‘超级男孩’(’NSync)，我都快疯了/我真想叫‘后街男孩’(Backstreet Boys)出来打一架”——或者说这些文化已经不像过去那样让他可以接近。他还强调自己得在网上找音乐。
But he still has some old bad habits, still heavy-handed with the homophobic slurs, and still explaining them away in interviews by equating his current creative frame of mind to that of his less enlightened battle-rapping days, a weak and tiresome excuse. He still excels at baleful and downright mean records. Unlike, say, Jay Z, who’s found new subject matter and new targets as he’s aged, Eminem is still rapping from deep inside his cave, as if he’s had no new experiences to draw from.
但他仍然保持着一些坏习惯，他仍然严厉的诋毁同性恋；仍然在采访中为此解释，说自己目前的创作心态和早期那些不够明智的“战斗说唱”时期是相似的，这是个软弱无聊的托词。他仍然擅长恶毒而直接的歌曲。和年纪渐长后发现了新主题和新靶子的Jay Z等人不同，艾米纳姆仍然在自己深深的巢穴里说唱，仿佛他没有什么新体验，可以从中汲取力量。
That is, though, just a form of self-protection. After the drug phase documented on “Relapse” and the overcoming of it captured on “Recovery” — his last two albums — Eminem may well be done putting himself in the spotlight. He still lives in his hometown, Detroit. His daughter was just crowned homecoming queen. He undoubtedly has new wounds — we just may never get to hear about them.
不过，这只是一种自我保护的方式。他在上上张专辑《复发》(Relapse)里记录了自己的吸毒阶段，又在上张专辑《复原》(Recovery)里写下了自己战胜毒品的历程。艾米纳姆今后可能不再追求曝光了。如今他仍然生活在家乡底特律。他的女儿已被视为他心目中回家的女王。毫无疑问，他也有新伤口——但我们可能再也无从知晓了。