WASHINGTON — High-speed rail was supposed to be President Obama’s signature transportation project, but despite the administration spending nearly $11 billion since 2009 to develop faster passenger trains, the projects have gone mostly nowhere and the United States still lags far behind Europe and China.
华盛顿——高速铁路本应是奥巴马总统的标志性运输项目。尽管自2009年以来，为了开发速度更快的客运列车，奥巴马政府已经投入了近110亿美元（约合680亿元人民币），但是相关项目大多毫无进展，美国依然远远落后于欧洲和中国。
While Republican opposition and community protests have slowed the projects here, transportation policy experts and members of both parties also place blame for the failures on missteps by the Obama administration — which in July asked Congress for nearly $10 billion more for high-speed initiatives.
虽然共和党的反对和社区抗议拖慢了这里的项目，但运输政策专家和一些两党成员也将失败的责任，归咎于奥巴马政府的失策——奥巴马政府曾在7月请求国会批准再为高铁项目拨款近100亿美元。
Instead of putting the $11 billion directly into those projects, critics say, the administration made the mistake of parceling out the money to upgrade existing Amtrak service, which will allow trains to go no faster than 110 miles per hour. None of the money originally went to service in the Northeast Corridor, the most likely place for high-speed rail.
批评人士称，奥巴马政府没有将那110亿美元直接用于高铁项目，而是错误地将资金分发下去，用以升级现有的美铁(Amtrak)服务。升级后，美铁列车的运行时速依然不会超过110英里（约合180公里）。与此同时，根本没有资金被直接用于东北走廊的运输服务，而那里才是最有可能发展高铁的地方。
On a 30-mile stretch of railroad between Westerly and Cranston, R.I., Amtrak’s 150-m.p.h. Acela hits its top speed — for five or 10 minutes. On the crowded New York to Washington corridor, the Acela averages only 80 m.p.h., and a plan to bring it up to the speed of Japanese bullet-trains, which can top 220 m.p.h., will take $150 billion and 26 years, if it ever happens.
在罗德岛韦斯特利和克兰斯顿之间那段30英里长的铁路上，设计时速为150英里的美铁阿西乐特快(Acela)能以最高速运行5或10分钟。而在纽约和华盛顿之间那条拥挤的走廊上，阿西乐的平均时速只有80英里。假如能实现的话，将阿西乐的速度提升至日本子弹头列车的水平的计划，将耗资1500亿美元，用时26年。日本子弹头列车的最高时速可超过220英里。
Florida, Ohio and Wisconsin, all led by Republican governors, canceled high-speed rail projects and returned federal funds after deeming the projects too expensive and unnecessary.
在认为相关项目太过昂贵，且没什么必要后，佛罗里达、俄亥俄和威斯康星三州取消了高铁项目，退回了联邦政府划拨的资金。这三个地方的州长均来自共和党。
“The Obama administration’s management of previously appropriated high-speed rail funding has been as clumsy as its superintending of the Affordable Care Act’s rollout,” said Frank N. Wilner, a former chief of staff at the Surface Transportation Board, a bipartisan body with oversight of the nation’s railroads. 
“奥巴马政府管理之前高铁拨款的糟糕程度，堪比管理《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的推出，”地面运输委员会(Surface Transportation Board)的前办公室主任弗兰克·N·威尔纳(Frank N. Wilner)说。该委员会没有党派色彩，负责监管美国的铁路系统。
When Mr. Obama first presented his vision for high-speed rail nearly four years ago, he described a future of sleek bullet trains hurtling passengers between far-flung American cities at more than 200 m.p.h.
近四年前，奥巴马首次提出了他对高铁的设想，描述了未来闪亮的子弹头列车以200英里以上的时速，在相距甚远的美国都市之间疾驰，运送乘客的情景。
“Within 25 years, our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail,” Mr. Obama said in his 2011 State of the Union address. “This could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car. For some trips, it will be faster than flying — without the pat-down.”
“在未来25年里，我们的目标是让80%的美国人坐上高铁，”奥巴马在2011年的国情咨文演说中表示。“这会让人们的出行时间，减少至汽车所需时长的一半。对部分出行而言，高铁会比飞机更快——它不用安检。”
But as Mr. Obama’s second term nears an end, some experts say the president’s words were a fantasy.
然而，随着奥巴马的第二届任期接近尾声，一些专家称，他的那些话不过是幻想。
“The idea that we would have a high-speed system that 80 percent of Americans could access in that short period of time was unadulterated hype, and it didn’t take an expert to see through it,” said Kenneth Orski, the editor and publisher of an influential transportation newsletter who served in the Nixon and Ford administrations. “And scattering money all around the country rather than focusing it on areas ripe for high-speed rail, didn’t help.”
“在那么短的时间里建成一个能服务于80%的美国人的高铁系统？这个概念，是不折不扣的炒作，不用专家就能看穿，”在一份著名运输业通讯刊物担任编辑和出版人的肯尼思·奥斯基(Kenneth Orski)说。“将资金分散到全国各地，而不是用在适合发展高铁的地区，根本无济于事。”奥斯基还曾在尼克松和福特政府任职。
But advocates say they are hopeful.
支持者却表示，他们有信心。
“Once something gets built, then we’re going to see more projects get going,” said Ray LaHood, Mr. Obama’s first transportation secretary. Mr. LaHood said it took the Interstate System of highways decades to be completed, and he predicts that high-speed rail will be the same.
12| “一旦有项目建成了，我们就会看到更多的项目开工，”奥巴马的第一任交通部长雷·拉胡德(Ray LaHood)说。他还称，州际公路系统用了几十年才建成，预计高铁也一样。
Mr. LaHood said California seemed the most likely candidate for success with high-speed rail, even though plans for a 520-mile train route between Los Angeles and San Francisco have been mired in controversy.
拉胡德表示，加利福尼亚州看来是最有可能成功开通高铁的地方，尽管在洛杉矶和旧金山之间修一条520英里长的高铁线路的计划，一直争议不断。
Despite strong backing from Gov. Jerry Brown, a court ruling had tied up state bond funding for the $68 billion project. An appeals court on July 31 threw out that ruling, which had been based on a lawsuit.  But opponents are still increasing calls to kill the project, and polls show waning public support for it.
虽然有加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)的大力支持，但法院的一项判决，搁置了用州债券资助这一投资额达680亿美元的项目的计划。该判决根据一起诉讼做出，不过，7月31日，被一家上诉法院推翻。但反对者依然在提高呼声，要求否决该项目。同时，民意调查显示，公众对项目的支持也在日益减弱。
Still, California has begun construction of the tracks and put out bids for a vendor to build the trains. And the new rail project will get an infusion of funds from the state’s cap-and-trade program, which requires business to pay for excess pollution.
然而，加州已开始修建轨道，并为寻找一家制造列车的厂商举行了招标。该州的碳排放限额交易计划将为这个新的高铁项目注入资金。碳排放限额交易计划要求企业为超额污染买单。
“The Golden Gate Bridge was tied up for years in hundreds of lawsuits,” said Jeff Morales, executive director of the California High-Speed Rail Authority. “We haven’t had quite that many.”
“在很多年里，金门大桥深陷数百起官司，”加州高速铁路管理局(California High-Speed Rail Authority)的执行主管杰夫·莫拉莱斯(Jeff Morales)说。“我们还没遇到那么多。”
But Representative Jeff Denham, a California Republican and chairman of the House Transportation subcommittee on railroads, said the state should not be in the railroad business. “High-speed rail can be a good idea; I just think it should be left up to the private sector,” he said. Proposed projects in Texas and Florida, he added, were better models.
但加州共和党众议员、负责铁路事务的众议院运输小组委员会主席杰夫·德纳姆(Jeff Denham)表示，州政府不应介入铁路事务。“高铁可能是个好主意；我只是觉得这件事应该让私营领域来决定，”他说。他接着表示，德州和佛罗里达州提出的项目都是更好的模式。