SEOUL, South Korea — Four defectors from the area near North Korea’s nuclear testing site showed symptoms that could be attributed to radiation exposure, but scientists said they could not conclude that the health problems had been caused by a nuclear test, the South Korean government said on Wednesday.
韩国政府周三表示，四名来自朝鲜核试验场附近地区的脱北者表现出可能是由辐射暴露而产生的症状。不过科学家表示，他们不能断定这些健康问题是由核试验造成的。
The four arrived in South Korea from Kilju, a county in northeastern North Korea that includes Punggye-ri, where the North has conducted all six of its nuclear tests in tunnels dug deep beneath the mountains. South Korea began conducting medical exams of defectors from that region in October, a month after the North conducted its biggest test explosion yet.
这四人通过朝鲜东北部的咸镜北道吉州郡抵达韩国，该地区包括了丰溪里，朝鲜已在那里的山底隧道内进行六次核试验。今年10月，朝鲜进行最大一次试爆后的一个月，韩国开始对来自该地区的脱北者进行医学检查。
The size of that detonation on Sept. 3, which the North claimed was produced by a hydrogen bomb, raised fears of a possible escape of radioactive material into the environment.
朝鲜宣称9月3日试爆的是一枚氢弹，这引起人们对于放射性物质可能会泄露到环境中的担忧。
Those fears were compounded by a series of small earthquakes reported from Kilju in recent weeks that have been attributed to underground cave-ins caused by the powerful test. Commercial satellite images have also found evidence of landslides near the test site, increasing fears of a further release of radioactive fallout if the North were to conduct another nuclear test there.
最近几周，吉州郡发生的一系列小地震加剧了人们的担忧，这些地震是由强大的试验引起的地下塌陷造成的。商业卫星图像也发现了测试地点附近发生滑坡的迹象。这使得人们对朝鲜若再在那里进行核试验，可能会使放射性尘埃进一步释放的担忧再度加重。
Such fears prompted the South Korean government to commission the exams of North Korean defectors from Kilju, to see if they showed signs of exposure.
这种担忧促使韩国政府委托医疗机构，为从吉州郡逃脱的脱北者进行医学检查，以检测他们是否有暴露在辐射中的迹象。
Researchers said the results, released on Wednesday, could not produce any definitive findings because of a lack of data.
研究人员称，周三公布的结果由于缺乏数据而不能得出任何明确的结果。
According to the study, there were 114 North Koreans from Kilju living in South Korea who have defected since the North’s first nuclear test in 2006.
研究称，自朝鲜2006年第一次核试验以来，有114名曾生活在吉州郡的朝鲜人脱北来到韩国。
However, all of them arrived in the South before the North’s most recent nuclear tests, including the September blast. This prevented researchers from studying the effects of the large nuclear test.
然而，他们全都是在朝鲜最近几次核试验（包括9月的那次）之前抵达韩国的。这使得研究人员无法对大型核试验的影响进行探究。
Moreover, only 30 defectors volunteered for the government-funded checkups, which were not mandatory.
此外，只有30名叛逃者自愿接受政府资助的检查。这种检查不是强制性的。
In their report on Wednesday, the researchers said they could not find any statistically meaningful amount of radioactive substance inside the bodies of the 30 defectors they examined.
研究人员在周三发布的报告中说，他们在检查过的30名叛逃者体内找不到任何具有统计学意义的放射性物质含量。
But researchers said they did find alterations in the chromosomes of four defectors. They said these could have been caused by exposure to radiation, though they also cautioned that such abnormalities could also have other causes, like heavy smoking. They said they did not have enough medical data from the defectors to produce any conclusive findings.
但研究人员也表示，他们的确在四名叛逃者体内发现了染色体的改变。他们说，这可能是由于暴露在辐射环境中导致的。但他们也指出，这种异常也可能是其他原因导致的，比如大量吸烟或接触杀虫剂和医疗辐射。他们表示，没有足够的有关叛逃者在朝鲜生活的医疗数据来得出明确的结论。
On Wednesday, the Unification Ministry, a South Korean government agency in charge of North Korean affairs, said it would try to run tests on more defectors and offer medical help if any were determined to suffer from radiation exposure.
韩国负责朝鲜事务的统一部于周三表示，他们将尝试对更多的叛逃者进行检查，并对任何确定遭受了辐射暴露的叛逃者提供医疗帮助。