During the golden weeks of autumn, it seemed as if everyone in the world wanted to go for a walk with William B. Helmreich. The journalist from Norway. Students who have lapped up his courses at City College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. The publicist at Princeton University Press, which just published “The New York Nobody Knows: Walking 6,000 Miles in the City,” his doorstop-size account of four years of trekking into every corner of the five boroughs, dead-end streets and desolate industrial areas included.
在秋季的几个黄金周里，似乎世上的每个人都想跟随威廉·B·海姆里奇(William B. Helmreich)出去走走。包括来自挪威的新闻记者，在城市学院和纽约城市大学的研究生中心选修了他的课程的学生们，还有普林斯顿大学出版社的出版人。该社刚刚出版了《没人知道的纽约：在这座城市行走6000英里（约合9656公里）》(The New York Nobody Knows: Walking 6,000 Miles in the City)。这是一本门挡般大小的书，记载了他在四年时间里走遍纽约市五大行政区每个角落的艰苦旅程，包括此路不通的街道及荒凉的工业区。
“New York is so varied,” said Mr. Helmreich, who has practically made a second career out of explaining so ambitious an undertaking. “But if you don’t walk the streets, you never really understand that. Plus my philosophy is, everything’s interesting.”
“纽约是如此千变万化，”海姆里奇说，他几乎把阐述这项雄心壮志的事业当成了自己的第二职业。“但如果你不上街走一走，就无法真正了解。而且，我的哲学是，所有事物都是有趣的。”
Mr. Helmreich, who is tall and blue-eyed with close-cropped gray hair, likes to call himself a flâneur, in a tip of the hat to the boulevardiers who strolled the streets of 19th-century Paris. This particular flâneur is 68, the child of parents who immigrated to New York from Switzerland in 1946 and settled in a tenement apartment on the decidedly unchic Upper West Side.
海姆里奇高高的个子，有蓝色眼睛和一头刚刚剪短的灰发。他喜欢称自己为漫游者(flâneur)，以此向19世纪漫步在巴黎街头的闲荡者致敬。而这位漫游者已经68岁了，他的父母是1946年从瑞士来到纽约的移民，定居在一套很不起眼的上西区的廉租公寓里。
Mr. Helmreich, who also describes himself as the ultimate city kid — “I was a member of the little gang on my block” — stayed put in New York until 1984, the year that he and his wife, Helaine, a writer, moved with their three children to Long Island, albeit to a town just a 15-minute walk from the Queens border.
海姆里奇又称自己为终极的城里孩子，“我是所在街区里一个小小帮派的成员。”他在纽约一直待到1984年。这一年，他和身为作家的妻子赫莱茵(Helaine)带着他们的三个孩子搬去了长岛(Long Island)，尽管他们搬去的那个小镇，从皇后区的边界走只要15分钟就能到达。
Mr. Helmreich’s popularity as a tour guide is hardly surprising, because his 449-page book is a chatty, buoyant and, despite his four decades in academia teaching classes on New York City and sociology, an unstuffy love letter to the delights of street-smart walking. His publisher described the work as “four years plus nine pairs of shoes plus 6,000 miles equals an epic journey,” and judging by the reactions of people who study the city for a living, the approach has much to recommend it.
海姆里奇作为一名导游而大受欢迎，这并不出人意料，因为他那本449页的书写得滔滔不绝、热情奔放，而且，尽管他在大学里教了40年的纽约市与社会学课程，这本书却是一封献给街头智慧的、不拘一格的情书。他的出版商形容这部作品为“四年时间+九双鞋+六千英里=一次史诗般的旅程”，而从那些以研究这座城市为业的人的反应来判断，这个方法还是有很多可取之处的。
“Too many of the current crop of book-length urban analyses rely on statistics, policy, and critiques of earlier theories of city life,” said Cassim Shepard, the editor of Urban Omnibus, an online publication of the Architectural League. “Mr. Helmreich’s book should provoke all urbanists worth their salt to leave their desks and get out into the street.”
“目前有很多篇幅像一本书那么长的都市分析资料，都依赖于数据、政策和之前的城市生活理论，”建筑联盟(Architectural League)的一份在线出版物《都市文集》(Urban Omnibus)的编辑卡西姆·谢巴德(Cassim Shepard)说，“海姆里奇的书应该会驱使所有称职的城市规划者离开他们的办公桌，走到街头去看一看。”
Fran Leadon, a City College architecture professor who is writing a history of Broadway, agreed. “New York is much more complex than people think,” Mr. Leadon said. “But nobody knows the whole story because the city is too big and too complicated. So the discussion about New York gets reduced to a few predictable topics: politics, restaurants, the supposed death of the middle class. That’s the reason Mr. Helmreich’s project is so important.”
弗兰·莱登(Fran Leadon)也同意这样的看法，他是城市学院的一位教授，正在撰写百老汇(Broadway)大街的历史。“纽约市比人们想的要复杂得多，”莱登说，“但是没人知道全部的故事，因为这座城市太大了，也太复杂了。所以，关于纽约的讨论就被缩减到了一些可想而知的话题之中：政治啊，餐馆啊，所谓的中产阶级的消亡啊。这就是海姆里奇的项目如此重要的原因所在。”
And as an author of the most recent A.I.A. Guide who walked many of these same streets, Mr. Leadon understands the challenges Mr. Helmreich faced. “It takes a lot of courage to walk through all of New York,” he said. “The city is full of surprises, and not all of them are pleasant.”
莱登作为刚刚出版的《美国建筑师协会指南》(A.I.A Guide)的作者，和一位走过了海姆里奇书中大部分街道的人，十分了解海姆里奇所面对的那些挑战。“走遍纽约需要很大的勇气，”他说，“这座城市中到处都是惊人的事物，但不是所有的惊人之处都是那么令人愉悦的。”
Mr. Helmreich doesn’t just walk. A gregarious man who seems hard-wired to strike up conversations with strangers, he pokes his head into one storefront after another, engaging the occupants in chat. As his wife affectionately summed up his approach: “Bill will talk to a stone. What’s more, the stone will answer.”
海姆里奇不仅仅是散步。这样一位喜欢与人打交道的男士，似乎总是不依不饶地要和陌生人来一场谈话。他会把头伸进一家家店面，和店里的人攀谈起来。正如他的妻子对他交谈方式的亲昵概括：“比尔跟石头都聊得起来，甚至还能让石头开口答话呢。”
A mile-long trek along Ninth Street one recent Friday gave Mr. Helmreich a chance to display his expertise and revisit a few haunts. He ticked off a few famous occupants of the long-defunct Women’s House of Detention — “Dorothy Day, Ethel Rosenberg, Angela Davis: Can you imagine if they were all under that roof at the same time?”
最近的一个星期五，海姆里奇沿着第九大街漫步了1英里（约1.6公里），借此机会，他展现了自己的专业素质，还去了几个地方故地重游。他列举了久已弃置的女性拘留所(Women's House of Detention)里曾经收容的几个人——“桃乐丝·黛(Dorothy Day)、埃塞尔·罗森伯格(Ethel Rosenberg)、安吉拉·戴维斯(Angela Davis)——你能想象她们同时待在那个屋檐下会怎么样吗？”
Then he ducked into World Class Cleaners, at 66 West Ninth Street. A plaque proclaimed that the business had been honored by the American Academy of Hospitality Sciences. “Good customer service,” said the woman behind the counter when Mr. Helmreich inquired about the award.
然后，他飞快闪进了第九大街西66号的干洗店World Class Cleaners。店里有一块铭牌上写着，该商家已被美国优质服务科学协会(American Academy of Hospitality Sciences)授予荣誉称号。当海姆里奇问到这是什么奖项时，柜台后面的女人说：“优质客户服务”。
He asked what it would cost to have a Hermès tie cleaned, and was told it would set him back $21. Hermès might not be Mr. Helmreich’s designer of choice, although he was looking dapper this day in chinos and a natty blue and-white-striped Ralph Lauren shirt. Generally, he said, he avoids bright blues and reds that might be read as gang colors, but attire provocative in this way is hardly an issue in the manicured West Village.
他询问清洁一条爱马仕(Hermès)的领带需要多少钱，得知要花费21美元（约合人民币128元）。爱马仕可能并不是海姆里奇首选的设计品牌，不过他今天穿着一条黄色丝光斜纹裤和一件漂亮的蓝白条纹拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)衬衫，整个人看上去十分干净利落。他说，自己一般会避开鲜艳的蓝色和红色，因为这两种颜色可能会被解读成帮派色彩，但在整洁光鲜的西村，颜色如此惹眼的服饰几乎不是问题。
A reminder that this neighborhood once served as an epicenter of Japanese culture stood at Third Avenue. A nondescript doorway led to a second-floor emporium overflowing with everything from Japanese-language editions of Golf Digest to packages of mascara emblazoned with bold Japanese lettering.
这片社区曾是日本文化的中心地带，一个当年的标志性建筑就矗立在第三大道上。那里有一条不起眼的阶梯门廊，通往二楼的商场，商场里玲琅满目地陈列着各种商品，从日文版的《高尔夫文摘》(Golf Digest)，到印着粗体日文字符的各种睫毛膏包装。
At Whiskers Holistic Pet Care, 235 East Ninth Street, where sales clerks remembered Mr. Helmreich from a visit five years ago, he leafed through a binder bulging with handwritten tributes to the store’s remedies and employees. “Phil has rejuvenated my 5-year-old English setter,” one grateful customer wrote.
在第九大街东235号的Whiskers Holistic宠物护理店里，销售人员想起海姆里奇五年前曾经来过一次。他翻开了一本鼓鼓囊囊的装订簿，里面写满了顾客对该店的药物与员工的好评。“菲尔让我那只5岁大的塞特猎犬又焕发出青春活力了，”一位心怀感激的顾客写道。
Once in a while the streetscape offers up flashes of Mr. Helmreich’s personal history, as it did at Mud, a cafe at 307 East Ninth Street. A beatnik brother-in-law of Mr. Helmreich’s lived for a time in an apartment in the rear, and a portrait of his bearded face gazed out from a mural near the front door. A few steps down, another local boy, named Jimi Hendrix, was memorialized by a sign that urged passers-by to write him letters and place them in an orange mailbox nearby, promising that they’d go “directly to heaven.”
偶尔，这里的街景会对海姆里奇回顾个人史有所贡献，比如第九大街东307号的Mud咖啡馆。海姆里奇有一位怪异的姻亲兄弟曾在这后面的一套公寓里住过一段时间，而咖啡馆前门附近的壁画中还有一幅他的大胡子肖像。走下几级台阶，那里曾经有一块标牌，用于缅怀一位名叫吉米·亨德里克斯(Jimi Hendrix)的当地男孩。那块标牌催促路人给他写信，然后把信投进旁边一个橙红色的邮箱里，并保证那样做他们会“直接升入天堂”。
At Veselka, the Ukrainian restaurant at Second Avenue, Mr. Helmreich took time to trace the roots of his passion for urban walking. His father, who died recently at 101, had been a prodigious walker, helping him to come to know and love the city early on. “I feel at home on any street in New York,” he said. “East New York, South Jamaica, the West Bronx. You name it.” Over the decades he has walked in cities and countries around the world, even clocking 500 miles in car-obsessed Los Angeles.
在第二大道的乌克兰餐馆Veselka里，海姆里奇花了些时间来追溯他热衷都市漫游的根源。他那位刚刚去世、享年101岁的父亲曾经也是一位让人惊叹的漫游者，从他很小的时候起，父亲就让他渐渐了解并爱上了这座城市。“纽约的无论哪条街道都让我感觉像在家里一样，”他说，“东纽约(East New York)，南牙买加(South Jamaica)，西布朗克斯(West Bronx)。不管你说的是哪一条。”几十年来，他曾在全世界的很多城市和国家步行过，甚至在依赖汽车的洛杉矶(Los Angeles)都创下了500英里（约805公里）的步行纪录。
This book, Mr. Helmreich’s 14th, grew out of a suggestion by his department chairman, Philip Kasinitz, and an early plan was to focus on 20 iconic streets, like Myrtle Avenue and Broadway. Then came second thoughts: “I asked myself, what’s iconic in a city of 120,000 blocks?”
这本书，也即海姆里奇的第14本书，是在他的系主任菲利普·卡西尼茨(Philip Kasinitz)的建议下写出来的。最初的计划是集中写20条标志性的街道，比如莫特尔大道(Myrtle Aveue)和百老汇。后来他转念一想：“我问自己，在一座有12万个街区的城市里，什么叫有代表性呢？”
So he began walking, his tape recorder and pedometer in a pocket along with little maps annotated like tick-tack-toe games, a line drawn through each street after he completed it. He walked in the heat, in the cold, in the rain, covering at least two miles a day. “People thought I was crazy,” he said cheerfully.
于是他开始漫游，他的磁带录音机和计步器都在口袋里，与几张被他标记得像“画三棋”游戏（tick-tack-toe games，两人轮流在井字棋盘内画X或O，先将三个方格连成一行者获胜——译注）一样的小地图放在一起。他每走过一条街区，就在地图上的相应位置画一条直线。他走过酷暑，走过寒冬，走过雨季，一天至少走上2英里（约3.2公里）。“人们都觉得我疯了，”他乐呵呵地说道。
And although he had walked the city’s streets many times before, this time he approached the task systematically, sometimes joined by his wife (800 miles) or by his second most reliable companion, Heidi, who appropriately is part Swiss mountain dog (400 miles).
虽然他以前在这座城市的街道上走过很多次，但这一次，他是系统化地推进这项任务。有时妻子也会陪他一起走（800英里[约1288里]），或是另一位最可靠的伙伴海蒂(Heidi)，它大概有部分瑞士高山犬的血统（400英里[约644公里]）。
He also did more than walk. He danced the bachata in a club in the South Bronx. He attended community meetings. He conducted formal interviews with mayors past and present. “And I have to admit that I cheated a little,” Mr. Helmreich said. He skipped 300 miles, mostly in homogeneous residential neighborhoods like Marine Park, Brooklyn.
还不只是步行。他在南布朗克斯地区的一家俱乐部里跳过芭恰塔舞(bachata)。他参加过社区会议。他正式采访过几位前任与现任市长。“我得承认，我走过捷径，”海姆里奇说。他跳过了300英里（483公里）的路程，多数是大同小异的住宅区，比如布鲁克林的海洋公园(Marine Park)。
But such lapses were rare, and by the end he had covered 6,048 miles and come away with vivid observations about everything from the transcendent impact of immigration on the city to the clues that a neighborhood was poised for gentrification.
但这样的省略并不多。到最后，他一共走了6048英里（约9733公里），一路上事无巨细地做了一番生动的观察，包括移民对城市的重大影响，以及某个社区受到“士绅化”现象（Gentrification，指一个地区经重建而使地价上升，富裕群体迁入而中下阶层则被迫迁出的现象——译注）荼毒的一些迹象。
“In East Williamsburg, for example, you see half-million-dollar apartments in a tower across the street from a city-run shelter, and people don’t mind,” Mr. Helmreich said. Friends in the real estate business ask him to recommend areas where it’s still possible to buy property and make a killing. His answers include the Lower Grand Concourse in the Bronx and Prospect-Lefferts Gardens in Brooklyn.
“比如说，在东威廉斯堡(East Williamsburg)，你可以看见一栋大厦里都是50万美元（约合人民币364.3万元）一套的公寓，而街对面就是政府开设的避难所，可是人们并不在意这些，”海姆里奇说。房地产业的朋友都请他推荐一些仍有可能买到房产、从而大赚一笔的地区。他的回答中包括了布朗克斯的大广场街(Lower Grand Concourse)和布鲁克林的展望莱弗茨花园(Prospect-Lefferts Gardens)。
Although New York is far safer than in years past, Mr. Helmreich admitted to an occasional close call, notably the time he found himself unexpectedly surrounded by a knot of young toughs. “I suddenly realized that I was in the middle of a drug deal that was going down, and they clearly thought I was a cop,” he said. “Believe me, I walked out of there fast.”
虽然比起前些年，纽约市的治安好多了，但海姆里奇坦承，自己还是有过一次死里逃生的经历，尤其是当他突然发现自己被一群壮汉围起来的时候。“我忽然发现自己闯进了一次毒品交易的现场，他们显然把我当成了警察，”他说，“真的，我快步逃开了。”