A company in southwestern China has announced plans to build a full-scale replica of the Titanic, the passenger ship that famously sank in 1912. The Seven Star Energy Investment Group, based in Sichuan Province, said it would spend spend 1 billion renminbi, or about $164 million, to build an ocean liner that would be moored on a river bank as a tourist attraction.
中国西南的一家公司宣布了按原尺寸复制”泰坦尼克号”(Titanic)客轮的计划，这艘客轮在1912年沉没的事件震惊了世界。位于四川省的七星能源投资集团表示，将斥资10亿元人民币（约合1.64亿美元）建造这艘远洋客轮，客轮建成后将泊在河岸，作为一个旅游景点。
The original ill-fated ocean liner has been the subject of immense fascination in China, particularly after the release of the James Cameron’s 1997 film “Titanic,” which was the highest-grossing film in China for more than a decade.
在中国，结局不祥的“泰坦尼克号”一直是一个让人十分着迷的题材，尤其是在詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)1997年拍摄的电影《泰坦尼克号》(Titanic)上映之后。该片曾是中国票房收入最高的影片，独占鳌头十多年。
Seven Star is a little-known private company involved in electricity generation. It grabbed headlines after it held a news conference Sunday in Hong Kong to announce plans to build the Titanic replica based on the design of a sister ship, the Olympic.
七星能源投资集团是一家没什么名气的私人公司，主营发电。该公司于上周日在香港举行了一场新闻发布会，宣布了以泰坦尼克姊妹船“奥林匹克号”(Olympic)为蓝本复制“泰坦尼克号”的计划，由此登上媒体头条。
Seven Star said it planned to have the ship, which will be built at the China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation’s Wuchang shipyard, serve as the centerpiece of a theme park in Daying County, in Sichuan Province. The company said it intended to complete the park, which was first announced at a trade fair in October, by 2016.
七星能源投资集团表示，集团计划把这艘客轮作为四川省大英县一个主题公园的核心景点。这艘客轮将由中国船舶重工集团旗下的武昌造船厂承建。该公司表示，它打算在2016年完成公园建设。去年10月，该公司在一个交易会上首次发布了建造公园的消息。
Su Shaojun, chairman of Seven Star, told the state news agency Xinhua that the replica ship would include features that recreate the experience of hitting an iceberg. The “pinnacle of the spirit of human responsibility” was revealed as passengers tried to save one another as the ship went down, Mr. Su said.
七星能源投资集团股份有限公司董事长苏绍俊告诉新华社，“泰坦尼克号”复制品将包含带来撞击冰川体验的设置。苏绍俊表示，“泰坦尼克号”快要沉没时，乘客设法相互拯救的举动展示了“那种近乎极致的人类责任精神”。
While the Titanic is remembered in museums in the United States and Europe, he said, there is nothing comparable in China. “We chose to rebuild the Titanic in China so that this same spirit will be developed and carried on in the East,” he said.
他表示，虽然美国和欧洲都修建了博物馆来纪念“泰坦尼克号”，但中国没有此类纪念场所。他说，“我们选择在中国重建泰坦尼克，就是要让这种精神在东方同样得到发扬与继承。”
“The boat we are building, it’s not for sailing,” Mr. Su said when asked whether the Titanic replica would be safe. “It will be a totemic symbol of the Titanic spirit, eternally berthed at the bank of the Qi River.”
“我们造的这艘大船，并不是用来航行，”被问到“泰坦尼克号”复制品是否安全时，苏绍俊说。“而是作为泰坦尼克精神的图腾标志，永久停靠在四川大英县郪江边。”
The company isn’t the first to attempt a reconstruction of the ship. Last year, the Australian magnate Clive Palmer announced plans to build a Titanic II at a shipyard in the Chinese city of Nanjing. His Blue Star Line intends to launch the ship by 2016.
该公司并不是第一个试图重建“泰坦尼克号”的公司。去年，澳大利亚富豪克莱夫·帕尔默(Clive Palmer)公布了在中国南京一家造船厂建造“泰坦尼克2号”的计划。帕尔默的蓝星国际航运公司(Blue Star Line)打算让该船在2016年前下水。
James McDonald, the global marketing director for Blue Star Line, said in an interview on Monday that the company expected construction of the Titanic II to get underway later this year. “The difference with ours is that we are a working vessel that will sail all around the world,” he said.
蓝星国际航运公司全球市场部经理詹姆斯·麦克唐纳(James McDonald)周一接受采访时表示，该公司希望在今年晚些时候开始建造“泰坦尼克2号”。他说，“不同之处在于我们建造的是可以使用的船舰，该船将环绕世界航行。”