EPHRATA, Pa. — They may be the most pampered chickens on the planet.
宾夕法尼亚埃夫拉塔——它们可能是世界上待遇最好的鸡。
On certain days, a truck pulls up alongside their quiet, spacious coop on an Amish farm here and delivers a feast that seems tailored to a flock of two-legged aristocrats. Before long, the rust-colored birds are pecking away at vegetable peelings and day-old bread from some of Manhattan’s most elegant restaurants, like Per Se, Daniel, Gramercy Tavern, the Modern and David Burke Townhouse.
安静、宽敞的鸡舍位于这里的一个阿米什农场，每隔几天，一辆卡车就会开到边上，给它们送来一顿似乎是为一群两条腿的贵族所准备的大餐。很快，这些铁锈色的草鸡就开始啄食来自曼哈顿最高档的餐厅——比如Per Se、Daniel、Gramercy Tavern、Modern和David Burke Townhouse——的菜叶和剩面包了。
It is all part of an experiment that is bringing together elite chefs, preindustrial farming practices and a breed of French poultry that is rarely found in the United States. The goal: to see whether American restaurants can turn back the culinary clock and rediscover “what a chicken should taste like,” said Ariane Daguin, the pioneering businesswoman who is behind the idea.
这是一项试验的一部分，目的是把精英大厨、工业化之前的养殖方式和一种在美国少见的法国鸡结合在一起。这个创意来自具有首创精神的女商人阿里亚纳·达甘(Ariane Daguin)。她说，试验的目标是，看看美国餐馆能否拨回烹饪界的时钟，重新发现“鸡肉原本应该有的味道”。
Can scraps from acclaimed restaurants, where the best ingredients are used, create the table-to-farm-to-table chicken of the future — and the past?
这些享有盛誉的餐厅都使用最好的食材，它们的残羹剩饭能否面向未来（以及过去），创造出餐桌到农场再到餐桌的鸡肉？
New York diners will get to nibble on the results this week. After having been fattened up in Pennsylvania, about 220 of what the D’Artagnan company is calling Green Circle chickens will start showing up (usually roasted) on dinner plates at the same restaurants that helped feed them. For high-end chefs, who engage in a perpetual contest to track down the purest and most rarefied ingredients, it is a tantalizing prospect.
本周，纽约的食客们将有机会品尝结果。在宾州被养肥之后，被D’Artagnan公司称为“绿色循环”(Green Circle)的大约220只鸡，将开始在那些为它们提供饲料的餐厅的餐盘上亮相（通常是在烘烤之后）。高级厨师一直在追求最天然最考究的食材，对他们来说，这是一个诱人的愿景。
“When I tasted it, I was like, ‘Whoa,’ ” said Jean-Georges Vongerichten, who plans to start incorporating the chickens into his ever-evolving menus. Witnesses say that after his first bite, Mr. Vongerichten was on the verge of tears; Daniel Humm, the chef at Eleven Madison Park, consumed an entire chicken in one sitting.
“我品尝这种鸡肉的时候，不禁惊呼‘哇’，”让-乔治·冯热里什唐(Jean-Georges Vongerichten)说。他打算把这种鸡纳入他不断改进的菜单。目击者称，冯热里什唐在尝了第一口之后，激动得几乎要落泪；Eleven Madison Park的首席厨师丹尼尔·胡姆(Daniel Humm)一顿吃下一整只鸡。
Still, a few raised eyebrows are to be expected. The image of chickens gorging on four-star ingredients can seem a rather operatic manifestation of today’s obsessions over food.
尽管如此，肯定会有人对此竖起眉毛。鸡群大吃特吃四星级食材的情景，似乎戏剧化地反映了人们当前对美食的痴迷。
“I do think in some ways it’s a wonderful reaction to corporate poultry and corporate farming in general,” said Matthew Mills, a creator of “Fodder,” a satirical online show from the Cooking Channel. “But at the same time, it swings so far to the other side that it’s almost an Onion headline.” He cited a well-known episode of “Portlandia,” in which two diners aggressively interrogate a waiter about the provenance of a chicken.
“我的确认为，在某些方面，这是对企业化家禽养殖乃至整个企业化农耕的一种绝妙反应，”烹饪频道(Cooking Channel)在线讽刺节目“Fodder” 的创办人马修·米尔斯(Matthew Mills)说。“但同时，它又向另一个极端走得太远，几乎可以登上《洋葱》（Onion，讽刺性报纸和网站——译注）的头条。”他提到了《波特兰迪亚》(Portlandia)的一个著名情节：两名用餐者不停地盘问服务员鸡肉的来源。
Clark Wolf, a prominent restaurant consultant, agreed. “On one side, it sounds kind of wonderful and magical, and on the other side it sounds like the biggest stunt I’ve ever heard,” he said. “I mean, you know — let them eat zucchini?”Ms. Daguin, the French-born founder and chief executive of D’Artagnan, a company that has played a major role in bringing ingredients like foie gras, game birds and Berkshire pork into the broader American marketplace, said that it was not a stunt, but part of a continuing mission to change the world by changing its palates.
著名餐厅顾问克拉克·沃尔夫(Clark Wolf)表示同意。“一方面，它听起来美好而又神奇；另一方面，它似乎是我听过的最大的噱头，”他说。“我是说——让鸡吃西葫芦？”出生在法国的D’Artagnan的创始人、首席执行官达甘说，这并不是噱头，而是通过改变世界的美食观念来改变世界这个持续使命的一部分。这家公司在把鹅肝酱、野禽和伯克夏猪肉等食材引入美国大众市场方面起了重要作用。
Ms. Daguin, 55, recalled moving to Greenwich, Conn., from France in 1977 to work as an au pair and getting her first bite of mass-produced American chicken. “It was a crime,” she said.
55岁的达甘1977年从法国来到康涅狄格州格林威治做“互裨”姑娘（即在当地某家人的家里以授课、协助家务等劳动换取膳宿——译注），那时她第一次尝到了大规模养殖的美国鸡。她说，“这简直是犯罪。”
For Ms. Daguin (as for Gallic chefs like Mr. Vongerichten and Daniel Boulud), a distaste for chicken that was “mushy and full of water,” as she put it, was intensified by nostalgic memories of chickens back home that wandered around the yard nibbling on carrot tops, onion skins and old baguettes — and ended up tasting rich and meaty, with an almost chewy texture.
达甘说，她（还有冯热里什唐和丹尼尔·布吕德[Daniel Boulud]等法国厨师）觉得这些鸡肉“烂糟糟的，嚼上去都是水”，与她怀念的家乡的鸡肉不可同日而语。她家乡的鸡会在院子里自由走动，啄食着胡萝卜头、洋葱皮和不新鲜的棍子面包，结果它们的肉味道鲜美、肉感十足，还颇有嚼劲。
What would happen, she wondered, if you took a heritage-breed chicken (in this case, one common to Gascony, the region of southwestern France where she grew up) and fed it scraps from fine restaurants?
所以她想，如果用高档餐厅的残羹剩饭来喂养传统品种的鸡（此次试验所用的鸡在她的故乡——法国西南部的加斯科涅很常见），会得到什么结果呢？
For chefs like Michael Anthony at Gramercy Tavern, there is a philosophical appeal in finding uses for those scraps — and in supporting a fresh but old-school alternative to factory farming. “We know the horror of the caged birds,” Mr. Anthony said.
对于Gramercy Taver的迈克尔·安东尼(Michael Anthony)等首席厨师而言，这种新颖而又老派的做法既利用了下脚料，又支持替代工厂化的农场经营，具有哲学上的吸引力。安东尼说，“我们都知道关在笼子里的鸡很惨。”
Ultimately, it comes down to taste. In restaurant circles, a chicken that tastes like chicken is something of a holy grail. About half a dozen chefs have signed up so far, though the roster of restaurants is still in flux.
最终的关键还是味道。在餐饮界，能提供一只味道正宗的鸡可以说是大家孜孜追求的圣杯。目前已有几位首席厨师报名，但参与试验的餐厅名单仍不确定。
Mr. Anthony plans to serve a dish with breast and thigh meat from the chicken, as well as sausage fashioned from it, as a $22 lunch item at Gramercy Tavern. At some spots, the chicken will simply be incorporated into existing multicourse menus.
安东尼打算在Gramercy Tavern提供一种22美元（约合134.7元人民币）的午餐，将采用这种鸡的胸脯肉和大腿肉，还有用这种鸡肉做成的香肠。在有些地方，这种鸡肉将被纳入现有的多道菜菜单。
In spite of the expense, Ms. Daguin intends to take the experiment a step further, creating separate pens and roaming yards for the chickens that belong to each restaurant group. The Per Se chickens will eat only Per Se peelings and bread; the diet of the Gramercy Tavern chickens will come only from Gramercy Tavern.
尽管代价不菲，但达甘打算进一步扩大试验，为每个餐厅的鸡群修建单独的鸡舍和走动场地。Per Se餐厅的鸡群只吃Per Se餐厅的菜叶子和面包；Gramercy Tavern餐厅的鸡群只吃Gramercy Tavern提供的食物。
The theory, anyway, is that each cluster of birds will have its own taste. (To get enough calories and protein, the chickens also feed on pellets made from corn and soybeans.)
无论如何，这个想法是要让每群鸡都有自己的味道。（为了得到足够的卡路里和蛋白质，这些鸡还要吃玉米和大豆做成的饲料。）
“It’s kind of like a weird competition,” the chef David Burke said. “It’s like, ‘My chicken eats better than yours.’ At least that’s how I’m looking at it. I’m going to spoil my chicken like a pet.”
大厨戴维·伯克(David Burke)说，“这像是一种奇怪的竞赛。就像‘我的鸡吃得比你的好。’至少我是这么想的。我会把我的鸡像宠物一样宠起来。”
If the flavor of the birds and the spirit of the idea catch on with consumers, Ms. Daguin may add more Amish farms to the project. She sees it as a growth opportunity for her company, as well as an experiment in consciousness-raising that could influence cooks and diners around the country.
如果鸡的味道和这个创意的精髓能吸引消费者，达甘可能会吸引更多阿米什农场加入这个项目。她将此视为公司的增长机遇，也是旨在提高美国各地厨师和食客意识的一场实验。
For chefs, the chicken is an experiment in creating an echo chamber of flavor. Or as Mr. Burke mused, “Maybe we’ll poach it in the same peelings that it ate.”
对厨师来说，培养这些鸡是一次创造无穷回味的美食的试验。就像伯克所说的，“或许我们会把它们与它们吃的同一种菜放在一个锅里煮。”