“Wow . . . New York! Just like I pictured it. Skyscrapers and everything.” So murmurs a presumably wide-eyed newcomer during a spoken-word break in Stevie Wonder’s “Living for the City,” and who among us outlanders and former rubes did not feel that same sense of mingled recognition and awe when we first set foot here? Thanks to movies and TV, magazines, the news, books — iconography in general — all of us, even natives, carry a mental suitcase stuffed with received images of the Big Apple. That’s true of children, too, for whom the city’s superlatives (biggest, loudest, tallest) hold a special fascination. You might even say that New York is to other American cities what dinosaurs are to other animals — minus, one hopes, the extinction event. And if we are — or were — lucky children, picture books play a huge role in how we picture the city, from “Eloise” and “The Snowy Day” to “Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile,” “In the Night Kitchen,” “You Can’t Take a Balloon Into the Metropolitan Museum” and “The Man Who Walked Between the Towers.”
 “哇……纽约！跟我想的一样。摩天大楼以及所有这一切。”在史提夫·汪达(Stevie Wonder)的《为这座城市而活》(Living for the City)的说唱间歇，一个睁大了双眼的新来者喃喃自语道。我们这些外来者和从前的乡巴佬第一次踏足此地时，谁没有经历过这种交织着赞赏和敬畏的感觉？由于电影、电视、杂志、新闻和书籍——总的来说就是各种图像——的影响，我们所有人，甚至包括当地人，脑子都有一个匣子，里面塞满了关于“大苹果城”被普遍接受的图像。对孩子们来说也一样，这座城市的各种“之最”（最大的、最大声的、最高的）对他们具有特殊的吸引力。你甚至可以说，拿纽约跟美国的其他城市相比，就像拿恐龙跟其他动物相比——当然要除去（我们希望不要发生）灭绝事件。如果我们是——或者曾经是——幸运的孩子，图画书在我们想像这座城市时扮演了一个重要的角色，比如《埃洛伊丝》(Eloise)、《下雪天》(The Snowy Day)、《莱尔，莱尔，鳄鱼》(Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile)、《在夜晚的厨房里》(In the Night Kitchen)、《你不能拿着气球进入大都会博物馆》(You Can’t Take a Balloon Into the Metropolitan Museum)和《走在高楼之间的男人》(The Man Who Walked Between the Towers)。
Marc Brown’s “In New York” might not be in quite that league, but it’s a wonderful book, maybe the best of its kind since Miroslav Sasek’s “This Is New York,” from 1960. Both books are travelogues, rooted in observation but buoyed by whimsy, presenting a city you want to get lost in, at least on the page. I’m a big fan of Brown’s “Arthur” books (and even more so his stories about Arthur’s stubborn sister, D. W.). In the past, Brown struck me as an artist with a gift more for character than for filling a whole page with something interesting. I was wrong. His illustrations here, with their heightened sense of place and three-dimensional space and their vivid, Seurat-like palette, beckon the eye to linger and roam, to pick out funny details or favorite landmarks. A New York immigrant (from Erie, Pa.), Brown writes as an enthusiast, in a friendly, first-person voice, studding his text with the kind of facts children will latch on to and — some children — repeat ad nauseam. Did you know the Empire State Building is “so tall that it is struck by lightning about 100 times a year”? Did you know that every year New York goes through “approximately 100 million Chinese food cartons”? Did you know New York has “over 1,600 places that serve pizza”? You do now, and may be reminded in the future.
马克·布朗(Marc Brown)的《在纽约》(In New York)可能不完全算是那一类书，但是它很精彩，也许是自米罗斯拉夫·萨塞克(Miroslav Sasek)1960年的《这就是纽约》(This Is New York)以来同类作品中最优秀的一本。这两本书都是旅行见闻，植根于观察，但是充满了奇思妙想，展示了一个你想沉迷其中的城市，至少你想沉迷在那本书中。我特别喜欢布朗的《亚瑟》(Arthur)系列图书（甚至更喜欢亚瑟固执的姐姐D.W.的故事）。过去，我一直认为布朗是个善于创造人物的艺术家，但并不是那么擅长在画面中注入有趣的东西。我错了。他这本书里的插图具有很强的地点感和三维空间感，它的色彩像修拉(Seurat)的点彩画一样鲜艳，吸引着你的眼睛徘徊流连，寻找有趣的细节或喜爱的地标。作为纽约的外来者（来自宾尼法尼亚州伊利市），布朗用热情、友好的第一人称写了这本书，文中点缀着那些孩子们会注意听——有的孩子甚至会重复到令人厌倦——的事实。你是否知道帝国大厦“有那么高，一年大概被电击100次”？你是否知道纽约每年用掉“大约1亿个中餐外卖盒”？你是否知道纽约“有1600多个披萨店”？现在你知道了，将来你可能还会被反复告知。
“Tap Tap Boom Boom” offers a smaller, anecdotal slice of New York life: A summer thunderstorm hits, a subway station fills with people fleeing the downpour, pizza and umbrellas are shared, a sense of ad hoc community takes hold until the storm breaks and everyone disperses back to the sidewalks. That’s pretty much it — quotidian but magical, the kind of interruption in routine that might loom large in a small child’s eyes and is rendered evocatively here. G. Brian Karas’s illustrations, which combine drawings and photographs, capture the crazy yellow light of a summer storm while the onomatopoetic title, used as a refrain in the text, renders the sound of big, juicy raindrops splattering on concrete as thunder cracks overhead. Elizabeth Bluemle’s rhymes don’t always scan, exactly; they’re more free jazz than swing, but I think anyone reading aloud will quickly get the hang of the text and learn how to have fun with it.
《噼噼啪啪》(Tap Tap Boom Boom)讲述了纽约生活中一个更小的轶事片段：夏季的雷雨倾泻而下，地铁站里挤满了避雨的人，人们分享披萨和雨伞，一个临时社区形成了，直到雷雨停止，人群散开回到人行道上。就是这么一个简单的故事——很平凡又很神奇。日常生活中的这种停顿在小孩子眼中可能会被放大，又在这里被生动地讲述。G·布莱恩·卡拉斯(G. Brian Karas)的插图将素描和照片结合在一起，充分展现了夏季暴雨疯狂的黄光，而拟声的书名在文中反复出现，模拟出巨大、饱满的雨点拍打在混凝土建筑上的声音，而雷声正在头顶轰鸣。伊丽莎白·布卢姆尔(Elizabeth Bluemle)并不总是严格押韵，他的文本更像自由爵士，而非摇摆乐，但是我认为只要大声朗读，你就会很快熟悉文本，知道怎么念更好玩。
If you thought one sweet book about the subway was unlikely, if not a logical impossibility, what about two? The M.T.A. will be proud to learn that “Count on the Subway” (to be published in May) wasn’t laughed out of publishers’ offices, the way it might have been a couple of grimier decades ago. As the title implies, this is a counting book, 1 to 10 and back again, making use of numerical train names and other features of an underground world that in real life could still use a bit of sanitizing. (The book’s mother-and-daughter heroines do not encounter “5 fat rats” or “8 stains of mysterious origin.”) Dan Yaccarino’s illustrations are stylized in a zippy midcentury way, nodding, I think, to the old U.P.A. animation studio (Gerald McBoing-Boing, Mr. Magoo). They look simple, but pay attention or you might miss the man carrying a fish bowl off the 7 train, or the poster on a station wall that appears to be advertising giant squid.
如果你认为一本关于地铁的甜美的书简直不可思议，在逻辑上讲不通，那来两本怎么样？大都会运输署(MTA)如果得知《在地铁上数数》（Count on the Subway，将于5月份出版。这个书名还有“地铁靠得住”的意思——译注）没有遭到出版社的嘲笑摒弃——要是放在糟糕的几十年前，有可能发生这种情况——它一定很骄傲。就像书名说的，这是一本数数书，从1数到10，又从10数到1，充分利用火车编号和这个地下世界其他特点——要是在现实生活中，它可能还需要再消消毒（这本书里的母女主人公没有遇到“5只胖老鼠”或者“8个来源可疑的污点”）。丹·雅卡理诺(Dan Yaccarino)的插图仿效活泼的中世纪风格，我觉得是在向曾经的UPA动画工作室（《杰拉德·麦克蹦蹦》[Gerald McBoing-Boing]和《脱线先生》[Mr. Magoo]）致敬。它们看起来很简单，但是你要仔细看，不然可能会错过离开7号火车的那个拿着鱼缸的男人，或者车站墙上的海报，它像是在给巨乌贼做广告。
Finally, we have another onomatopoetic read-aloud treasure in “Zoom! Zoom! Sounds of Things That Go in the City,” which takes us through a day’s worth of urban cacophony. Tad Carpenter’s angular, primary-colored illustrations are a perfect visual counterpart to the rattles, bangs and whooshes in Robert Burleigh’s text; any child obsessed with trucks or backhoes or trains or steam shovels should get a jolt of pleasure from the vehicular energy on display here. “Zoom! Zoom!” seems as if it must be set in New York — until, contrary to the famous Frank Sinatra song, the city goes to sleep. New Yorkers, openhearted and not at all myopic when it comes to pride of place, will forgive Burleigh that snub, while comforting themselves with the knowledge that no one ever says: “Wow . . . Phoenix! Just like I pictured it.”
最后，我们还有一个含有很多拟声词的、适合大声朗读的宝库，它就在《嗖！嗖！城市里的声音》(Zoom! Zoom! Sounds of Things That Go in the City)里。它带我们体验在城市里一天中听到的各种刺耳的声音。塔德·卡彭特(Tad Carpenter)笨拙的三基色插图是罗伯特·伯利(Robert Burleigh)的文本中那些咯咯声、砰砰声和嘶嘶声的完美视觉呈现方式。任何对卡车、反铲挖土机、火车或蒸汽挖土机着迷的孩子应该能从这里展示的车辆的活力中得到一些乐趣。《嗖！嗖！》似乎是以纽约为背景的——只不过，与法兰克·辛纳屈(Frank Sinatra)的那首著名的歌曲唱的不一样的是，这个城市晚上睡觉。纽约人心胸开阔，在地位重要性方面绝不目光短浅，他们会原谅伯利的怠慢，同时用没人说出口的事实来安慰自己：“哇……菲尼克斯！跟我想的一样。”