Andrea Martin, Amy Poehler, Martin Short and Neil Patrick Harris bare their souls (and other bits) in their upcoming memoirs.
安德里亚·马丁(Andrea Martin)、艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)、马丁·肖特(Martin Short)和尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯( Neil Patrick Harris)在即将出版的回忆录中展现自己的灵魂（和其他事情）。
“Lady Parts” by Andrea Martin
《女性私处》(Lady Parts) ，安德里亚·马丁/著
On parenting: “I enrolled them in a small private school that Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman sent their kids to … There wasn’t a dry eye in the playground as Ms. Streep handed over her lunches to her kids and, with the brave determination of her Oscar-winning performance as Sophie, made the choice to get in her Volvo station wagon and drive away.” (HarperCollins)
关于为人父母：“我把他们送到梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)和达斯汀·霍夫曼(Dustin Hoffman)的孩子们上的小型私立学校……斯特里普把午饭交给她的孩子们时，操场上的小孩都在哭。她拿出扮演苏菲（Sophie，她曾凭此角色获得奥斯卡奖）时的勇气和决心，钻进沃尔沃旅行轿车，扬长而去。”（哈珀柯林斯出版社[HarperCollins]出版）
“Yes Please” by Amy Poehler
《是的，请》(Yes Please)，艾米·波勒/著
On beauty: “If you are lucky, there is a moment in your life when you have some say as to what your currency is going to be. I decided early on it was not going to be my looks. I have spent a lifetime coming to terms with this idea and I would say I am about 15 to 20 percent there … Believe me, blond hair can take you really far, especially with the older men. It can really distract from the face.” (Dey Street Books)
关于美貌：“如果你够幸运，生命中的某个时刻，你可以决定将来靠什么为生。我很早就决定，不靠外貌为生。我一直在跟这个想法妥协，我得说我差不多有15%至20%靠的不是外貌……相信我，金发真的很有帮助，特别是对老男人很有吸引力。它真的能把注意力从脸上转移走。”（戴伊街图书出版社[Dey Street Books]出版）
“I Must Say: My Life as a Humble Comedy Legend” by Martin Short
《我必须得说：我的人生就像一部卑微的喜剧传奇片》(I Must Say: My Life as a Humble Comedy Legend)，马丁·肖特/著
On performance: “The number-one rule in show business is: Never follow a singer with a singer. The number-two rule in show business, incidentally, is: Never look Barbra Streisand in the eye when she is walking onstage, or during foreplay.” (HarperCollins)
关于表演：“演艺界的第一原则是：永远别和一位歌手一起模仿另一位歌手。顺便说一下演艺界的第二原则：在芭芭拉·史翠珊(Barbra Streisand)上台时或和她前戏时，千万别看她的眼睛。”（哈珀柯林斯出版社）
“Choose Your Own Autobiography” by Neil Patrick Harris
《选择你自己的自传》(Choose Your Own Autobiography)，尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯/著
On modesty: “Directly showing family and neighbors and co-workers that you’re proud of the way you live accomplishes something on a core level that intense advocacy sometimes can’t. So for the most part your style is to lead by example, to show ordinary people — Oprah, say — around your home, to … see what kind of family the four of you really are. And let Oprah take it from there.” (Crown Archetype)
关于谦逊：“直接向家人、邻居和同事表明你为自己的生活方式感到骄傲，这能达到某些效果，比为之强烈辩护的效果还好。到目前为止，你的方式大多是以身作则，向你家周围的普通人展现你们家四个人的真实面貌（比如上奥普拉的节目）。然后让奥普拉负责剩下的事。”（皇冠原型出版社[Crown Archetype]出版）