At more than 9,000 square feet, the sprawling house that Kathy and Dennis Brekken built on a remote stretch of the Cannon River, miles from the one-stoplight downtown of historic Cannon Falls, Minn., has the feeling of an old-world inn.
在坎农河(Cannon River)的一处偏远支流上，同明尼苏达州历史名镇坎农佛斯(Cannon Falls)那个仅有一盏红绿灯的镇中心相距数英里处，凯西(Kathy)与丹尼斯·布雷肯(Dennis Brekken)建造的这栋面积9000平方英尺（约836平方米）的不规则房屋，有一种旧式旅馆的感觉。
Everywhere, there are porches: open-air, screened and sun. Bedrooms and kitchens abound (there are three of the latter). There are also 35 styles of millwork and a secret passage.
这里到处都是门廊：开放式的、封闭式的，以及阳光房。这里的卧室与厨房数量很多（后者多达三个），还有35种样式的木构件和一条秘密通道。
“I know it seems like an odd house for two people,” said Mr. Brekken, 67.
“我知道，这栋房子对于两个人而言，看起来有点离谱。”今年67岁的布雷肯先生说。
But as Mrs. Brekken, 65, explained, “We think of it as the center point for our family.”
然而，65岁的布雷肯太太解释说，“我们把这里当成了我们这个大家庭的中心点。”
The house, designed in 2006 by Todd Hansen, a Minneapolis architect, and recently renovated, was intended to act as a magnet for family and friends. It may have worked a little too well. Now even relatives who live a short drive away opt to spend the weekend no matter how insignificant the occasion.
这栋房屋，是明尼阿波里斯市(Minneapolis)的一位建筑师托德·汉森(Todd Hansen)于2006年设计的，最近刚经过翻修。夫妇俩打算将这里变成一个吸引家人和朋友的地方。在这件事上，他们可能做得有点太好了。现在，就连住处远得需要开一会儿车才能到的亲戚，都喜欢来这里度周末，不管相聚的理由是多么微不足道。
“We just love that,” Mrs. Brekken said.
“我们就喜欢那样。”布雷肯太太说。
A former chief executive of Midwest of Cannon Falls, a holiday products business started by her father in 1953, she grew up nearby and never imagined she would stay. As a young woman, she was determined to get away and referred to the little town in southeastern Minnesota as “this Podunk place.”
布雷肯太太是坎农佛斯当地Midwest公司的前任首席执行官，该公司是她父亲于1953年创建的，经营节日用品生意。虽然她是在这附近长大的，但从没想过自己会留在这里。年轻时，她曾决心逃离此地，还说过，这座位于明尼苏达州东南部的小镇是个“芝麻大的地方”。
Mr. Brekken grew up in the even smaller town of Kenyon, Minn., on a farm that didn’t have indoor plumbing until he was a teenager. (“You sure didn’t dillydally in January or February,” he said.)
而布雷肯先生成长于明尼苏达州一座更小的城镇——凯尼恩(Kenyon)，住在一个直到他十来岁才在室内装上水管的农场里（“在一月或二月里，你肯定不会拖拖拉拉的。”他说）。
The two met in town when she was 19 and married while she was at the University of Minnesota. (College was not for him.) Eventually, they both went to work for her father’s company, alongside her older brother and younger sister.
在她19岁的时候，两人在镇上邂逅。等她去明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)读书时，俩人就结了婚（大学不适合他）。最终，他俩都去她父亲的公司工作了，同她的哥哥和妹妹一样。
“For a former Lutheran minister, my dad sure liked to make money,” Mrs. Brekken said. “We did Christmas all year long.”
“我的父亲当过一名路德教的牧师，但他确实很喜欢赚钱，”布雷肯太太说，“我们那时候整年都在做和圣诞相关的生意。”
Amassing all the trimmings required frequent trips to Europe and Asia, often for weeks at a time, but somehow they managed to juggle that with the responsibilities of raising two young sons (Alex, now 39, and John, 36).
为了采购所有品种的装饰品，他们得常去欧洲和亚洲出差，经常一去就是好几周。但他们成功地平衡了工作与养育两个幼子（现年39岁的亚历克斯[Alex]与36岁的约翰[John]）的责任。
At least until 1984, when Mrs. Brekken’s father informed her that he was retiring and putting her in charge of the company. She was 35.
至少在1984年之前是这样的。而在那一年，布雷肯太太的父亲告诉她，自己打算退休了，让她来掌管这家公司。她那时 是35岁。
That was when Mr. Brekken became the chief executive parent.
也就是在那时，布雷肯先生成了家中的“首席父母官”。
Asked about the arrangement, which was fairly unconventional at the time, their son John said that it was even more unusual to have a mother who was a chief executive than it was to have a stay-at-home dad. “But it was all normal to us,” he added.
当被问及这种在当时看来有违传统的做法时，他们的儿子约翰说，有那么一位当首席执行官的母亲，可比有一位在家当“全职先生”的父亲更不同寻常。“但在我们看来，这完全是正常的。”他补充道。
And as Mrs. Brekken pointed out, her husband was much better with the boys. “I was wound tight,” she said. “He rolled with the punches.”
而且，正如布雷肯太太指出的那样，她的丈夫更善于照顾男孩们。“我把他们管得太紧了，”她说，“而他则得心应手。”
The company thrived under her direction, expanding from $30 million a year in sales to $100 million. But over time, as the children grew up and started families of their own, she went to work on an exit strategy, selling the last of the family’s holdings and retiring at 54.
这家公司在她的带领下蒸蒸日上，年销售额从3000万美元（约合人民币1.87亿元）增长到了1亿美元（约合人民币6.24亿元）。然而时光荏苒，孩子们都长大成人，陆续开办了自己的公司；她也开始着手进行一项退出计划。她出售了最后那部分家族股份，并于54岁那年退了休。
At that point, the couple could have gone anywhere. Their decision to stay put surprised even them.
那时候，夫妻俩本来可以去任何地方。但他们却做出了留下的决定。连他们自己都为此感到吃惊。
“It’s just a little town of about 4,500 people,” Mr. Brekken said.
“这不过是个大约4500人的小镇。”布雷肯先生说。
Even so, Mrs. Brekken said, “We like it because it’s not a suburb.”
即便如此，布雷肯太太说，“我们喜欢这里，因为这儿不是一处市郊。”
They bought six acres of riverfront property for $350,000 and spent about that much again for Mr. Hansen’s design services. With so much custom work, construction took 17 months and cost $350 a square foot.
他们花35万美元（约合人民币218万元）买下了河边一处占地6英亩（约2.4公顷）的房产，又花了大致同样多的钱，请汉森来设计。由于要量身定制的项目太多，这项建筑工程耗时17个月，每平方英尺的开支为350美元（约合人民币每平方米23588元）。
And now they are rarely alone. Holidays and weekends attract four generations of family. Plenty of friends, too.
现在，他们很少能够独处。每逢节假日和周末，家里都会变成四世同堂。很多朋友也会被吸引过来。
“I never tire of having people here,” Mrs. Brekken said. But even with three kitchens, the cooking gets old fast.
“我对于请人到家中做客乐此不疲，”布雷肯太太说。但即使家中有三间厨房，她的手艺大家还是很快就吃腻了。
Recently she made a plea: She’ll continue to handle weekends and holidays, she said, if someone else will only step up and claim Thanksgiving. So far, she’s had no takers.
最近，她提出一个请求：她会继续主办这些周末和节假日的聚会，她说，只是希望能有人能站出来主动承办感恩节的活动。但到目前为止还没人回应。