It was 1969, and Francis Mason, the dance writer, former cultural attaché and assistant director of the Morgan Library, was walking down Charlton Street, marveling at the Federal-style townhouses that lined the street’s north side. As his daughter, Leslie Mason, recalled recently, he rang the bell of one of the most lavish, handed his card to the young woman who answered the door and said, “If it’s for rent, I’ll take it.” The young woman asked, “Don’t you want to see it?”
时值1969年，舞蹈评论人、前文化大使和摩根图书馆(Morgan Library)馆长助理弗朗西斯·梅森(Francis Mason)正在查尔顿街(Charlton Street)上一边漫步，一边带着惊叹的眼光欣赏街道北侧林立的联邦式联排别墅。据他的女儿莱斯利·梅森(Leslie Mason)最近回忆，他挑选了其中最有排场的一家，按响门铃，把名片递给前来应门的年轻女子，对她说：“如果这套房子在招租，我就要了。”年轻女子问道：“你不妨进来看一看？”
It was a characteristic moment for Mr. Mason and his wife, Patricia, who became a locally famous townhouse broker and horticulturalist. They were lovers of houses, and the Charlton Street apartment (they lived on the parlor and ground floors) would be the first in a series of moves through the West Village, a course that marked the fortunes of the area.
对于梅森和他的妻子帕特丽夏(Patricia)来说，这是常有的时刻。帕特丽夏后来成为了当地有名的联排别墅经纪人和园艺师。他们是房屋爱好者，查尔顿街的公寓（他们住在一楼和二楼）将成为他们迁往西村(West Village)的第一站；而他们的搬家之路，也折射出了这片地区的财富变迁。
Thirteen years ago, the younger Ms. Mason, now 53, moved back to Charlton Street, to a house just a few doors down from the one she grew up in, with her partner, Thad Meyerriecks, 58, a co-owner of a shipping company (their daughter, Lucy Mason, is now 9). But it wasn’t until last year that they were able to renovate the place, following the sale of Ms. Mason’s family’s last house, on Morton Street, to Sofia Coppola for $9.85 million, as Curbed reported at the time. (Ms. Mason, a broker at Douglas Elliman, was too politic to divulge the buyer.)
莱斯利·梅森现年53岁。13年前，她搬回了查尔顿街，离她从小长大的地方仅隔了几个门。她的伴侣查德·迈尔里克斯(Thad Meyerriecks)也一起搬了进来。迈尔里克斯现年58岁，是一家航运公司的联合所有人（两人的女儿露西·梅森[Lucy Mason]现年9岁）。不过直到去年，梅森家族卖出了最后一套房子后，他们才得以将这套房子装修好。根据Curbed当时的报道，那套被卖出的房产位于莫顿街(Morton Street)，是以985万美元（约合人民币6060万元）卖给了索菲亚·科波拉(Sofia Coppola)。（作为道格拉斯·艾丽曼[Douglas Elliman]的经纪人，梅森太慎重了，不肯透露买家身份。）
Back in 1970, the Masons realized that the owner of their house on Charlton Street was never going to sell it to them. After two members of the radical group the Weathermen accidentally blew up an 1840s townhouse on West 11th Street, the Masons and another couple, the architect Hugh Hardy and his wife, Tiziana, bought the lot for $75,000. Mr. Hardy (who also, coincidentally, oversaw the renovation of Polly Guth’s New Hampshire house on Page 1 of this section) designed a house for the two families — that diagonal window, Ms. Mason said, was her father’s idea — but no bank would give them a mortgage. So they sold the plot with the plans, and the Masons stayed on at Charlton Street, hoping to wait out the owner.
回到1970年。梅森夫妇意识到，查尔顿街的房东们永远不会把房子卖给他们。当激进组织“气象员”(Weathermen)的两名成员意外炸毁了西11街的一座始建于19世纪40年代的联排别墅后，梅森夫妇同另一对夫妇——建筑师休·哈迪(Hugh Hardy)及其妻蒂兹亚娜(Tiziana)，以75000美元（约合人民币461423元）的价格买下了那块地皮。哈迪为两家人设计了一座房子——莱斯利说，那扇斜窗(diagonal window)是她父亲的主意；但是没有银行愿意为他们贷款。他们只好把地皮连同设计方案都卖掉了。梅森夫妇留在查尔顿街，希望等来房东搬走的那一天。
In 1978, Mrs. Mason got the listing for the house they would eventually own on Morton Street, built in the 1850s and set on a curve of the street, with an enormous garden. It was just a few years after New York City had flirted with bankruptcy, and a townhouse in the Village was not an easy sell. So the Masons bought it for $240,000, half of which came from a 15-year mortgage extended to them by the seller.
1978年，帕特丽夏得到了莫顿街一套房源的挂牌信息，该房源始建于19世纪50年代，位于莫顿街的街角，有一座超大的花园。夫妇俩最终买下了这套房子。当时，纽约市正笼罩在破产的阴影中，所以一座位于西村的联排别墅并不好卖。于是梅森夫妇以240000美元（约合人民币147.66万元）的价格买下了它。其中半数房款，来自卖家转他们的那笔为期15年的抵押贷款。
“The idea that you would enter into a long-term relationship with a previous owner is unheard-of now,” said Ms. Mason, who can still remember how proud her mother was when she paid off the debt.
“与前任房主保持长期来往，这种事情现在听都没有听说过，”莱斯利说，她依然记得母亲当年还完债之后是多么的自豪。
Ms. Mason, who worked as an actress into her mid-30s, had no plans to follow her mother’s career path. Mrs. Mason was a formidable presence, educated at Wellesley and the London School of Economics, and a preservationist who once donated the commission on the sale of a house on East 19th Street belonging to Lincoln Kirstein, a founder of the New York City Ballet, to a fund in his name.
莱斯利在35岁上下时曾经做过一名女演员，当时她并不打算走上母亲那样的职业道路。帕特丽夏是个强大的人，她在韦尔斯利(Wellesley)和伦敦经济学院(London School of Economics)求学，还是一名历史建筑保护主义者。她曾经将纽约市芭蕾舞团(New York City Ballet)创始人林肯·柯尔斯坦(Lincoln Kirstein)在东19街的一套房子卖掉，把佣金捐给了以柯尔斯坦名字命名的基金会。
But it’s not easy to eke out a living as an actress. “One day I went to my mother to borrow money, and she refused. I said, ‘O.K., I’m going to sell real estate,’ ” Ms. Mason said.
不过，靠演戏来维持生计并不容易。“一天，我去找母亲借钱，她拒绝了。我说，‘好吧，那我就去卖房子。’”莱斯利说。
“I had always thought what she did was reprehensible, probably because it took so much attention away from me when I was a child,” she continued. “But I soon realized that selling houses is more than just finance. It’s people at a pivotal moment in their lives. And when my mother got sick, it gave us something to talk about.”
“我一直觉得她所做的事应该受到谴责，或许是因为我小时候时，她在这些事情上花费了太多精力，从而忽视了我，”她接着说，“但是我很快意识到，卖房子不仅仅是赚钱，跟你打交道的人都处在人生的重要时刻。后来我妈生病时，我们俩有了聊天的话题。”
Mrs. Mason died in 1997. And Ms. Mason found herself with many of her mother’s former clients. “It was a way to remember her,” she said. “And also to see another side, one that was softer and kinder.”
帕特丽夏在1997年去世了。莱斯利发现，很多她母亲以前的客户都变成了她的客户。“这是纪念她的一种方式，”她说，“通过这个方式，我也可以看到她的另一面，和蔼可亲的一面。”
In the mid-1990s, Mrs. Mason had tried to buy her daughter and Mr. Meyerriecks a house on Bedford Street. But it was marriage-conditional, Ms. Mason said: “Of course, had we liked the house, we might have relented.”
在20世纪90年代中期，帕特丽夏曾试图给女儿和迈尔里克斯在贝德福德街(Bedford Street)购置一套房子，但前提是他们得结婚。莱斯利说：“当然，如果我们喜欢那套房子的话，可能就会后悔（没有结婚）了。”
She recalled a saying of her mother’s: “Houses are like men: They are all compromises. They become perfect by your choice.”
她记得母亲说过一句话：“房子就像男人：都需要妥协。他们经过你的选择而变得完美。”
The couple bought this house, which was divided into three apartments, in 2001 for $2.536 million. “It was incredibly comforting to be back home, as it were, at that time,” Ms. Mason said.
2001年，莱斯利和迈尔里克斯以253.6万美元（约合人民币1560万元）的价格，买下了他们现在所住的房子。这套房子当时已被分成了三套公寓。“回到家的感觉舒心得让人不敢相信，就好像回到了小时候。”莱斯利说。
Her father moved into the ground-floor apartment six months before his death in 2009, and Ms. Mason decorated it with furniture from the Morton Street house.
2009年，她的父亲也去世了。在此前的六个月里，他搬进了一楼那套公寓。莱斯利从莫顿街的住处搬来一些家具，对公寓进行了装修。
He was fading, or as Mr. Mason himself put it, “I’m only good in short takes.” But he could still find his way to the West Side Highway, where he liked to take a brisk walk, shirtless, while singing “Shall We Gather at the River?”
他当时已是风烛残年，或者用他自己的话说，“我只能支撑一小会儿。”但他依然可以设法来到西区高速路(West Side Highway)，在那里脱去上衣，轻快地散散步，边走边唱着“聚集生命河畔”(Shall We Gather at the River)。
After Morton Street sold, Ms. Mason and Mr. Meyerriecks hired David Hottenroth, an architect, and Elizabeth Bauer, a decorator, to renovate Charlton Street, opening up the back of the house with a two-story extension and a wall of casement windows, and connecting the three apartments into a luminous single-family residence. It cost about $1 million.
莫顿街的房子卖掉后，莱斯利和迈尔里克斯聘请建筑师大卫·霍滕罗斯(David Hottenroth)和室内装潢师伊丽莎白·鲍尔(Elizabeth Bauer)装修了他们查尔顿街的住所，将房屋的后部打通，扩建了一栋两层的附楼，修出一整面墙的对开窗，将三套公寓连成了一大套敞亮的单户住宅。整个装修大约花费了100万美元（约合人民币615万元）。