TALLINN, Estonia — President Obama vowed on Wednesday to punish the Sunni militants whose videotaped beheadings of two American journalists he said had “repulsed” the world, saying the United States would lead a regional and international coalition to beat back the terrorists.
爱沙尼亚首都塔林——美国总统奥巴马周三发誓要惩罚那些逊尼派武装分子，称他们斩首两名美国记者的录像让全世界“恶心”，并表示美国将领导一个区域及国际联盟击退这些恐怖分子。
“Our objective is clear, and that is: degrade and destroy ISIL so that it’s no longer a threat, not just to Iraq but also to the region and to the United States,” Mr. Obama said, using an alternative acronym for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. He was speaking at a news conference here on the eve of a NATO summit meeting in Wales, as pressure built for him to articulate a broader military strategy to take on the ISIS militants.
“我们的目标很明确，那就是：瓦解和摧毁ISIL，使其不再是一种威胁，不仅对伊拉克、而且对该地区乃至美国，”奥巴马说，ISIL是伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(ISIS)的另一种缩写。随着他需要明确表达一个针对ISIS武装分子的更广泛的军事战略的压力在增长，奥巴马在威尔士北约首脑会议前夕在这里举行的记者会上说了这番话。
“It’s not only that we’re going to be bringing to justice those who perpetrated this terrible crime against these two fine young men,” the president said. “The United States will continue to lead a regional and international effort against the kind of barbaric and ultimately empty vision” the group represents.
总统说，“我们不仅要将对那两名优秀男子犯下这一可怕罪行的人绳之以法，美国还将继续领导一个区域及国际的努力，以抵抗（该组织所代表的）那种野蛮且最终空洞的幻想。”
Mr. Obama’s strongly worded statement came after he drew criticism from allies and foes last week, when he said that he had not yet developed a strategy for confronting ISIS in Syria. American airstrikes in Iraq, the president said on Wednesday, had “borne fruit” by “blunting the momentum” of the militants in that country and averting the humanitarian disasters it had threatened to spark.
奥巴马此番措辞强硬的声明出来之前，他在上周曾遭到来自盟友和敌人的批评，当时他表示还没有制定在叙利亚对抗ISIS的战略。奥巴马总统周三表示，美国在伊拉克对武装分子进行的空中打击已经“取得成效”，“削弱了其势头”，并避免该组织曾威胁引发的人道主义灾难。
He spoke just hours after the White House said intelligence agencies had analyzed a video showing the beheading by an ISIS fighter of American Steven J. Sotloff, a 31-year-old freelance journalist, and considered it authentic.
他发表讲话的几个小时之前，美国白宫表示，情报机构已经分析了显示一名ISIS武装分子斩首美国人史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)的视频，认为其可信，31岁的索特洛夫是自由撰稿人。
“Whatever these murderers think they will achieve by killing innocent Americans like Steven, they have already failed,” Mr. Obama said in his first comments on Mr. Sotloff’s killing since the video was released.
这是自视频发布以来奥巴马首次评论索特洛夫的被杀，总统说，“不管这些凶手认为他们杀害像史蒂芬这样的无辜美国人能达到什么目的，他们都已经失败。”
“We will not be intimidated,” the president said. “Their horrific acts only unite us as a country and stiffen our resolve to take the fight against these terrorists.” The video marks the second time in two weeks that the militant group released a graphic depiction of the beheading of an American, intensifying pressure on the president to order military strikes on the group in its sanctuary in Syria.
“我们不会被吓倒，”总统说。“他们令人震惊的行为只能让我们的国家团结起来，坚定我们的决心，与这些恐怖分子进行战斗。”新视频是这个激进组织两周内发布的活生生地描绘斩首一名美国人的第二个录像，加大了让总统下令对该组织在叙利亚的营地进行军事打击的压力。
Mr. Obama said he was not yet ready to order such action, saying he wanted to be sure that the mission would be effective and that allies at home and abroad supported it.
奥巴马表示，下令采取这一行动的时机尚未成熟，他说，他需要确保这一行动是有效的，而且得到国内外盟友的支持。
“It is very important from my perspective that when we send our pilots in to do a job, that we know that this is a mission that’s going to work, we’re very clear what our objectives are, what our targets are, we’ve made the case to Congress and we’ve made the case to the American people, and we have allies behind us,” Mr. Obama said, “so that it’s not just a one-off.”
“从我的角度来看，非常重要的是，当我们派飞行员去执行一项任务时，我们对任务能达到目的有明确的认识，我们非常清楚我们的目的是什么，我们的目标是什么，我们已经对国会说明了情况，向美国人民说明了情况，我们已经取得了盟友的支持，”奥巴马说，“这种任务不只是一次性的孤注一掷。”
Pressed on whether he was talking about the elimination of ISIS, Mr. Obama suggested he was seeking instead to limit the group’s reach.
当被追问他是否是指消灭ISIS时，奥巴马暗示，他所寻求的，是限制该团伙的活动范围。
The president said his goal was to ensure that ISIS “is not an ongoing threat to the region,” and that the group “is degraded to the point where it is no longer the kind of factor that we’ve seen it being over the last few months.” Mr. Obama said that if the United States were to be joined by the international community, “we can continue to shrink ISIL’s sphere of influence, its effectiveness, its financing, its military capabilities to the point where it is a manageable problem.”
总统说，他的目的是确保ISIS“不对该地区构成持续的威胁”，该组织“被削弱到一种程度，以至于它不再是我们在过去几个月中看到的那种力量”。奥巴马说，如果国际社会能加入到美国的努力中来，“我们就能继续缩小ISIL的势力范围，缩小其有效性、其融资及军事能力，使其变成一个能够应付的问题。”
In the latest video, Mr. Sotloff is shown kneeling in the same fashion as another American journalist who was recently beheaded, James Foley, with a masked figure standing above and wielding a knife. Mr. Sotloff addresses the camera and describes himself as “paying the price” for Mr. Obama’s decision to strike the group in northern Iraq.
新视频显示，索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)像此前被斩首的詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)那样双膝下跪，一个蒙面凶手站在他旁边，拿着一把刀。索特洛夫对着摄像头，描述自己是在为奥巴马做出在伊拉克北部打击ISIS的决定“付出代价”。
The president was briefed on the video Tuesday before his departure for Estonia. His remarks, which were made at a joint news conference with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia, came at the start of a three-day visit to Europe that was choreographed to project a strong response by Mr. Obama and European allies to Russia’s increasingly bellicose moves in eastern Ukraine. But with the situation there changing rapidly and the surfacing of the second ISIS video, the trip is instead serving to showcase the vexing array of pressures weighing on the president to move more decisively on crises around the globe.
奥巴马总统在前往爱沙尼亚之前，在周二听取了有关视频的简况。他的讲话是在与爱沙尼亚总统托马斯·亨德里克·伊尔韦斯(Toomas Hendrik Ilves)联合举行的记者会上发表的，这是一次为期三天的欧洲访问的开端，此次精心设计的欧洲之行，原是为了让奥巴马及其欧洲盟友对俄罗斯在乌克兰东部的日益好战行为做出强烈反应。但随着乌克兰局势极快地变化，还有第二个ISIS视频的出现，此次行程反而变成奥巴马总统所面临的令人烦恼的多种压力的展示：全球各地的危机需要他更加果断地采取行动。
Mr. Obama arrived in Estonia on Wednesday for a day of private meetings with Baltic leaders and public statements meant to reassure allies – particularly those bordering Russia – that the United States and Europe are serious about defending them from their newly aggressive neighbor.
奥巴马于周三抵达爱沙尼亚，在这里与波罗的海国家的领导人举行了一天的私下会谈，也发表了公开声明，都是旨在向盟友、特别是那些与俄罗斯接壤的国家保证，美国和欧洲在帮助他们抵御新的好战邻国上是认真的。