For the past year, I’ve been photographing the fringes of Beijing, the areas just beyond the tentacles of one of the world’s most extensive subway networks, where the city just meets the countryside.
过去的一年中，我一直在拍摄北京的边缘地带，即那些刚刚超过作为世界上最发达的地铁网络之一的北京地铁的触角触及范围的区域，那城市与乡村的交接之处。
These areas — extensions of Beijing, where I’ve been based for the past eight years — are often rough and ready and feel a world apart from this capital city.
这些区域——北京市的延伸、我过去八年居住的地方——往往呈粗陋之态，与首都城里相比，似有天壤之别。
One of the places I’ve stumbled upon in these explorations is a cluster of recycling yards in Beijing’s northern suburbs, where the subway’s Line 5 ends. This is where some of Beijing’s heaps of trash go to die — in order to begin a new life, recycled. Paper and cardboard gets compacted into 700-kilogram cubes and loaded onto 16-wheel trucks to be taken to the eastern province of Shandong to be returned as paper. Plastic bottles — emptied of their Coke, Sprite, iced tea — are sorted before being sent away to be ground and turned into polyester for new clothes, or the filling of duvets and pillows. Styrofoam, metal, glass, they are all collected, with each yard specializing in a specific material.
在探索过程中，我偶然发现的地方之一，便是北京北郊聚集的数个回收场，这里是地铁五号线终止之处。这是北京一些成堆的垃圾走向消亡之地——消亡是为新生、被回收利用。废纸和纸板被压制成重700千克的立方体，装在16轮卡车上，运到东部省份山东进行处理，化身为纸张回京。塑料瓶——里面的可乐、雪碧、冰红茶已被清空——经分类后，再被送走，被磨碎并转化为聚酯纤维，用来做新衣服，或填充被子和枕头。泡沫聚苯乙烯、金属、玻璃都会被收集，每个回收场都有专门处理的特定材料。
A constant stream of men and women wearing thick coats and gloves trundle in on motorized tricycles, passenger vans and trucks, with rubbish piled on and tied down in any way possible.
络绎不绝的男男女女们穿着厚外套、戴着手套，开着机动三轮车、客车和卡车缓慢移动，垃圾以一切可能的方式被堆起、被捆住。
“This is all household trash. There’s so much of it. If we didn’t help do something about it all, I can’t imagine the landfills that would be needed for all of it,” said Qian Linsheng, 34, a plastics recycler, as he counted each bottle by hand.
“这些全都是家庭垃圾。太多了。再不想点办法处理所有这些东西的话，我简直不敢想得有多少填埋场才能把这些都处理掉。”今年34岁、靠回收塑料为生的钱林生（Qian Linsheng，音译）一边动手数着瓶子，一边说道。
As Beijing’s population has exploded to more than 20 million people, the amount of waste generated has multiplied too.
随着北京的人口爆炸式增长至逾2000万，人们所产生的垃圾的数量也成倍增长。
All the consumer waste that comes here to be reborn tells another story: that of the Chinese urbanite’s changing lifestyle and diet, and the rise of the middle class. There are school textbooks, magazines, calendars, shredded receipts and firecracker boxes left over from the recent Chinese New Year. But there are also brochures for Audi cars, cartons for imported milk and yogurt, Belgian beer cans, brandy and wine crates and so on.
所有来到这里等待重生的生活垃圾，也述说着另一个故事：它们昭示着中国城市居民生活方式和饮食习惯的日新月异，及中产阶级的崛起。垃圾堆里有教材、杂志、日历、收据碎片和农历新年剩下的鞭炮盒。但里面还有奥迪车宣传册、进口牛奶及酸奶的纸箱、比利时啤酒罐、白兰地和葡萄酒酒箱等等。
There is an endless amount of trash to be sorted, counted and packed, said Mr. Qian, a migrant from the central province of Henan who has been running the plastics yard with his brother-in-law for the past five years, working from 6 a.m. until late in the night, every day, receiving packages large and small from rag-and-bone men.
钱林生说，要被分类、计数再打包的垃圾数不胜数。来自中国中部省份河南的钱林生和他妻子的兄弟（或姐妹的丈夫）在过去的五年中一起经营这家塑料回收场。从每天清晨6点起，两人便开始从拾荒者手中收取大包小包的废品，一直忙到深夜。
But the pair are planning to call it a day in a couple of years. Mr. Qian said: “It’s dirty, tiring work. I know this stuff gets remade into other things. But I don’t think about it that much. We’re only collecting the trash and make a living at it.”
但他们俩打算再干几年就不干了。钱先生说：“这活又脏又累。我知道这些东西会被重新做成别的东西。但我也没想那么多。我们只是收垃圾，靠这个某条生路而已。”