A man who in 2006 became the first person in the United States to be convicted of female genital cutting was deported on Monday to his home country, Ethiopia, after serving 10 years in prison, federal authorities said.
联邦当局表示，一名在2006年成为美国首个因为行女性割礼被判罪的男子，在服刑10年之后于周一被遣返回自己的原籍国埃塞俄比亚。
The man, Khalid Adem, 41, used scissors to remove the clitoris of his 2-year-old daughter in his family’s Atlanta-area apartment in 2001, prosecutors in Gwinnett County, Ga., said. He was convicted of aggravated battery and cruelty to children. The case led to a state law prohibiting the practice, which was already prohibited by a federal law and is a common social ritual in parts of the world but is broadly condemned.
乔治亚洲格威内特县的检察官表示，这个名为哈立德·阿德姆(Khalid Adem)的41岁男子，2001年在自己位于亚特兰大地区的公寓内，用剪刀减掉了自己两岁女儿的阴蒂。他被判处严重伤害罪和虐待儿童罪。这个案件导致一项禁止这种行为的州立法出台，该行为之前已经被一项联邦法规禁止。此类做法在世界某些地方是一种常见的社会惯例，但它遭到外界的普遍谴责。
“A young girl’s life has been forever scarred by this horrible crime,” Sean W. Gallagher, a field office director for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a statement on Tuesday. “The elimination of female genital mutilation/cutting has broad implications for the health and human rights of women and girls, as well as societies at large.”
“这种可怕的罪行给一个小女孩的生活留下了永久的创伤，”移民与海关执法局（Immigration and Customs Enforcement，简称ICE）一名外勤办公室主管肖恩·W·加拉格尔(Sean W. Gallagher)在周二发布的一项声明中表示。“女性割礼/外生殖器切除会给女人和女孩的健康、她们的人权，以及整个社会造成广泛的影响。”
The World Health Organization has estimated that more than 200 million girls and women have been cut in 30 countries, mostly in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. The procedure, which involves the removal of parts of the genitalia, is typically performed on girls before they turn 15 and leads to a wide range of lifelong health consequences, including chronic infection, childbirth complications, psychological trauma and pain during urination, menstruation and intercourse.
据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)估计，在世界上30个国家，有超过2亿个女孩和女人接受了割礼，她们大多是在非洲、中东和亚洲。这项涉及切除部分外生殖器的程序通常在女孩15岁之前进行，会导致各种持续终生的健康问题，包括慢性感染、分娩并发症、心理创伤，以及排尿、行经和性交疼痛。
The practice is far from unheard-of in the United States. Though it is illegal under federal law, about half a million women have undergone the procedure or are likely to be subjected to it, according to a 2012 report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
在美国，这种行为远远称不上前所未闻。美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)2012年发布的一项报告显示，尽管在联邦法之下属于违法行为，但美国仍有大约50万女性经受了这项程序，或有可能如此。
Cutting has presented new challenges for doctors as the number of African immigrants in the United States has grown. In 2013, lawmakers extended the federal ban to include “vacation cutting,” in which American-born girls are sent to other countries to have the cutting performed.
随着在美非洲移民数量的增长，这项割礼给医生们带来新的挑战。2013年，议员们扩大了这项联邦禁令的范围，将“假期割礼”包括在内，即把在美国出生的女孩送到其他国家接受割礼的行为。
I.C.E. has arrested at least 380 people and has deported 785 known or suspected human rights violators since 2003, the agency said.
ICE表示，自2003年以来，它已经逮捕了至少380人，遣返了785名确知或被怀疑侵犯人权的人。
In 2016, Unicef said the rate of cuttings had declined over three decades, with adolescents about one-third less likely to be cut than 30 years ago.
2016年，联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)表示，行割礼的人数比率在过去三十年里有所下降，有可能被行割礼的少女比三十年前少了三分之一。
Customs are changing in some counties where the practice used to be widespread. In 2015, a doctor in Egypt became the first person in that country to be convicted of the practice. Somalia’s prime minister signed a petition in 2016 that called for his government to ban it. The country of Georgia outlawed genital cutting in January.
在一些女性割礼曾经非常普遍的国家，习俗在发生改变。2015年，埃及的一名医生成为该国首位因行女性割礼被定罪的人。2016年，索马里总理在一份请愿书上签名，呼吁自己的政府禁止这种行为。今年1月，格鲁吉亚宣布女性割礼为非法。