MEDICINE HAT, Alberta — This isolated river city smack dab in the middle of Alberta’s badlands is a little bit like Norway. Both have sizable oil and gas reserves that spin big money relative to their small populations.
艾伯塔省梅迪辛哈特——这个坐落在河边的城市正好在艾伯塔贫瘠地区的中心，与世隔绝。它和挪威有点像，石油和天然气的储量都相当大，带来的财富相对于它们较少的人口来说是相当多的。
Now, Medicine Hat is setting up the equivalent of Norway’s famous sovereign wealth fund, a pool of money that should make more money for generations to come.
现在，梅迪辛哈特正在设立一个和挪威著名的主权财富基金相当的基金，筹集起来的钱应该会为子孙后代赚更多的钱。
“We could separate from the world, and we’d be totally self-sufficient,” said Ted Clugston, the mayor, sipping coffee in Medicine Hat’s award-winning, architectural designed brick-and-glass City Hall. “We’d be a very, very wealthy little country, except we have no military.”
“我们可以和世界分离，完全自给自足，”该市市长特德·克吕斯顿(Ted Clugston)在梅迪辛哈特市政厅里一边喝着咖啡一边说。这是一栋很有设计感的获奖建筑，采用了砖和玻璃结构。“我们可以成为一个非常非常富裕的小国，除了没有军队以外。”
Medicine Hat is one of the last cities in North America to own its energy resources; it has more than 4,000 gas wells and hopes to grow its oil production from 1,500 to as much as 5,000 barrels of oil a day.
梅迪辛哈特是北美洲最后一批拥有自己的能源资源的城市之一。该市现在有4000多口天然气井，还打算将石油日产量从1500桶增加到5000桶。
It has its own gas-fired power plant and is a leader in municipally owned renewable energy, with a wind farm and a solar thermal power plant. The city even provides incentives to homeowners to buy solar electric panels.
它有自己的燃气发电厂，还有一座风电场和一座太阳能热电厂，是市政可再生能源领域的领导者。梅迪辛哈特甚至还向购买太阳能电子组件的房屋主人提供补贴优惠。
But it is what is under the city that really sets it apart: massive reserves of natural gas.
但真正让这座城市与众不同的，是它地底下的东西：储量巨大的天然气。
Much of Alberta is the floor of an ancient sea that scientists call the Western Interior Seaway, which once separated the Rocky Mountains from the Appalachians. It was full of life, swimming with giant reptiles that grew as much as 60 feet long.
艾伯塔有相当一部分地区在古代是一片海洋的海床。科学家称其为西部内陆海道(Western Interior Seaway)，它曾将落基山脉和阿巴拉契亚山脉隔开。当时，这里充满生机，生活着最长可达60英尺（约合18米）的巨型爬行动物。
Detritus from dead plants and animals that settled to the bottom was buried by sediment and broke down into methane after million of years. Geologists today call the remains of that seabed the Medicine Hat Sandstone. It contains the largest and oldest pool of natural gas in Canada.
死去的动植物的残骸沉落海底，被沉积物掩埋，并在数百万年后分解成甲烷。今天的地质学家把残留下来的海床称作梅迪辛哈特砂岩(Medicine Hat Sandstone)。它拥有加拿大储量最大、最古老的天然气。
The indigenous people of the plains knew there was something mysterious in the ground around here because lightning strikes would occasionally set off gas flares that burned brilliantly until snuffed out by wind or rain — they called the gas vents “burning springs.”
生活在这片平原上的原住民知道，这附近的地底下有神秘的东西，因为闪电偶尔会把地上的草点燃，火光明亮，直到被风或雨扑灭。他们把气孔叫“燃烧的泉水”。
Then in 1883, the Canadian Pacific Railway bridged the South Saskatchewan River at Medicine Hat and dug a well farther west looking for water to replenish steam engines on the dry plains. They instead struck gas, “which, on taking fire emits a flame sufficient to light up the surrounding country,” a newspaper reported at the time.
然后到了1883年，加拿大太平洋铁路(Canadian Pacific Railway)延伸到梅迪辛哈特时，在南萨斯喀彻温河上架桥。为了在干燥的平原上给蒸汽机加水，人们在西侧挖了一口井，希望找到水。当时的一份报纸报道称，他们挖到了气体，“遇火便会产生足以把四周围照亮的火焰”。
The railroad kept digging wells and hitting gas, which it primarily used to create flares to dazzle visitors. After witnessing one such display, Rudyard Kipling famously wrote, “this part of the country seems to have all hell for a basement, and the only trap door is Medicine Hat.”
铁路施工人员不断挖井，挖出天然气。当时，天然气主要被用来制造让访客赞叹的火光。看过一次这样的表演后，鲁德亚德·吉卜林(Rudyard Kipling)曾写下名言，“在该国的这片地区，地狱似乎就在地下室里，唯一的天窗就是梅迪辛哈特。”
The first wells were shallow and the gas was mixed with water, which would freeze in the winter, making distribution impossible. Then in 1904, the town fathers decided to drill a deeper well.
最初的井都较浅，天然气和水混合在了一起。水在冬天会结冰，导致无法输送天然气。后来到1904年，市政官员决定挖一口更深的井。
At 1,000 feet, the coffers ran dry, but the mayor said he would find more money and ordered the drilling to continue. Ten feet later, the drill hit gas, spitting the drill bit out of the ground like a watermelon seed. The mayor was just getting dressed and ran down to the well with his suspenders hanging around his knees, according to a city historian.
在地面以下1000英尺的地方，天然气井干涸，但市长称他会弄到更多的钱，下令继续挖。又挖了十英尺，钻头碰到天然气，被像西瓜籽一样喷出地面。据该市的一位历史学者称，市长当时刚穿好衣服，在膝盖处安好吊具后下到井下。
Remarkably, the city turned down a bid by a private company to buy the gas franchise and instead decided to develop it as a public utility. The city raised money to install gas lines that ran through buildings and from home to home. Street lamps burned around the clock because the gas was so plentiful it was less expensive than turning them off and relighting them daily, a reality that earned Medicine Hat a mention in “Ripley’s Believe It or Not!” (The gas mantles in the lamps have since been replaced by light-emitting diodes.)
不同寻常的是，市政府拒绝了一家私营公司购买天然气特许经销权的提议，而是决定把它当作公用事业来开发。该市为安装天然气管道而筹集资金，管道把一栋又一栋建筑，一个又一个家庭连接在了一起。路灯连续一整天燃烧着，因为天然气非常充足，全天照明比每天灭灯第二天再点燃要更便宜。这个事实为梅迪辛哈特在“信不信由你博物馆”(Ripley's Believe It or Not)赢得了一席之地。（路灯中的气灯罩已被发光二级管取代。）
Learning how to safely harness the invisible, odorless resource took some time. Many a building was blown to matchwood because of leaking gas. In 1908, a mattress factory exploded.
学习如何安全使用这种无形、无味的资源需要时间。很多建筑因为漏气而被炸成碎片。1908年，一家床垫厂发生爆炸。
Medicine Hat, by then incorporated as a city, started offering industry tax holidays, free building sites and free natural gas; thousands of factories came. Vincent Scully, a former Irish politician, declared that Medicine Hat would become “the Pittsburgh of western Canada,” and for a while, it looked as if he might have been right. By the time the Great War began, Medicine Hat factories were producing dozens of products, “from manhole covers to candy,” according to Medicine Hat’s history museum.
那时已建市的梅迪辛哈特开始提供工业税负优惠期、免费建筑工地和免费天然气。成千上万家工厂随之出现。前爱尔兰政界人物文森特·斯库利(Vincent Scully)曾宣称梅迪辛哈特将成为“加拿大西部的匹茨堡”，而在一段时间里，他似乎说对了。据梅迪辛哈特历史博物馆称，到一战开始时，梅迪辛哈特的工厂生产的产品，“从井盖到糖果，”达数十种之多。
“There’s not much that we’re wanting for,” said Bill Cocks, a city councilor and chairman of the city’s energy and utilities committee, who said he was sometimes introduced at provincial meetings as “Alderman Cocks from the Independent Principality of Medicine Hat.”
“我们什么都不缺，”该市议员、能源与公用事业委员会主席比尔·科克斯(Bill Cocks)说。他称在省级会议上，自己有时候会被介绍成“来自梅迪辛哈特独立公国的科克斯议员”。
Cocks is president of the Cypress Club, a leather-and-trophy-head-bedecked private club founded in 1903 that has long been the social hub of Medicine Hat power brokers.
科克斯是赛普里斯俱乐部(Cypress Club)的主席。这是一个用皮革和兽头作装饰品的私人俱乐部，成立于1903年，一向是梅迪辛哈特权力掮客的社交中心。
Income from the oil and gas sales funds much of the municipal budget, allowing Medicine Hat to keep taxes low — it has the lowest property taxes of any major municipality in Canada. When energy prices were high, the city built up about 500 million Canadian dollars in reserves.
来自石油和天然气的收入会给该市的很多预算提供资金，使梅迪辛哈特能够保持低税率。这里是加拿大主要城市中财产税最低的。在能源价格处于高位时，该市积累起了大约五亿加元的资金储备。
But then prices plummeted and the profits evaporated, and this year Medicine Hat faced a budget shortfall for the first time in memory. The city will close the gap with reserves and raise property taxes by 2 percent annually for the next 10 years, but the shortfall served as a warning to the City Council.
但后来，能源价格暴跌，利润蒸发，梅迪辛哈特今年面临预算不足。在记忆中这是第一次。市政府将用储备金来弥补，并在接下来的十年里每年上调财产税2%，但预算不足是对市议会的一个提醒。
As a result, Medicine Hat is setting up a “heritage fund,” similar to the sovereign wealth funds operated by Norway, China, Singapore and other wealthy countries. The city won provincial approval to invest in stocks, a privilege allowed to only two other cities in Alberta: Calgary and Edmonton, each more than a dozen times Medicine Hat’s size.
因此，梅迪辛哈特正在设立一个“遗产基金”，类似于挪威、中国、新加坡和其他富裕国家运作的主权财富基金。该市获得了省级部门对投资股票的许可。在艾伯塔，除梅迪辛哈特外只有两个城市享有这项特权：卡尔加里和埃德蒙顿。它们的面积均比梅迪辛哈特大十多倍。
Once money goes into the fund, it cannot come out — only dividends can. But over time, the city hopes the fund will grow and that dividends will eventually cover a lot of the city budget, maybe someday even making property taxes a thing of the past.
资金一旦进入该基金，就不能撤出，只有收益可取出。但随着时间的推移，该市希望这个基金能不断发展壮大，到最后收益能承担该市的大量预算，也许有一天甚至会让财产税成为历史。
“We’ll start capturing the value of those depletable assets,” said Brian Mastel, the finance commissioner, “and monetize them into an endowment fund for the community.”
“我们将开始利用这些可能会枯竭的资产的价值，”该市财政厅长布莱恩·马斯特尔(Brian Mastel)说，“并把它们变现，放进一个造福社会的捐赠基金。”