As he came of age in Cuba, José Angel Sánchez enrolled in medical school for the usual reasons: to help the sick and to make a better living than most in his destitute eastern town. But he had another motive, too.
当古巴的何塞·安赫尔·桑切斯(José Angel Sánchez)逐渐长大的时候，他选择了就读医学院，原因很平常：救死扶伤，并过上比东部贫困家乡的大部分人更好的生活。但他还有另一个目的。
“It was also a way out of Cuba,” said Dr. Sánchez, 29, who moved to the United States in September, four years after he graduated as a general practitioner.
“这也是离开古巴的一条出路，”如今29岁的桑切斯医生说。他四年前从大学毕业，成为一名全科医师，于今年9月移居美国。
Dr. Sánchez’s escape route was set up by the United States government, under a 2006 program that offers American residency to Cuban medical workers posted overseas. It is a door through which thousands of Cuban health workers have emigrated — and one that President Raúl Castro is determined to close.
桑切斯的逃离路线由美国政府设立，是一个于2006年颁布的为派驻海外的古巴医务工作者提供美国居留权的签证项目。这是一扇让数千名古巴医务工作者得以移民美国的大门——也是一扇古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)决心关闭的门。
One year after Cuba and the United States announced their thaw, policies like this, which hail from a more hostile era, show that diplomacy after five decades of tensions will not be as easy as the raising of embassy flags. The number of Cuban medical professionals who defected for residency in the United States reached a record this year, putting a crimp in the newly restored relations between the two countries and forcing Cuba to scramble to stop the exodus.
在古巴与美国宣布关系解冻一年后，像这样诞生于较为敌对时期的政策表明，50年关系紧张之后的外交往来不会像在使馆升起国旗一样简单。为美国居留权而叛逃的古巴医疗专业人士的规模今年创下了历史记录，这对两国间新近恢复的关系造成了负面影响，迫使古巴奋力阻止这些人的大批离去。
The Department of Homeland Security fast-tracks residency for Cuban medical professionals who defect, but it has been slowed by the swell of applications, accusations of fraud and delays that left hundreds of people like Dr. Sánchez stranded in Colombia for months this year.
美国国土安全部为叛逃的古巴医疗专业人士开设了获得居留权的快速通道，但申请量的增加、欺诈指控和延迟减缓了它的速度，导致几百名像桑切斯医生这样的人今年在哥伦比亚滞留数月。
In April, 18 months into his two-year medical posting in Venezuela, Dr. Sánchez traveled to Bogotá, Colombia. There, he applied for the Cuban Medical Professional Parole Program at the United States Embassy. But the process, which normally takes four to six weeks, stretched to five months. “I always planned to leave — somehow,” said Dr. Sánchez, now a medical assistant in Paterson, N.J.
桑切斯医生参加了为期两年的委内瑞拉医疗外派。在工作了18个月后，他于今年4月来到哥伦比亚的波哥大。他在那里的美国大使馆申请了“古巴医疗专业人士豁免项目”(Cuban Medical Professional Parole Program)。但这个通常历时四至六周的过程持续了五个月。桑切斯医生说，“我一直计划离开，不管用什么方式。”他目前在新泽西州的帕特森担任医务助理。
Cuba denounced the program in recent weeks as the two nations met to discuss American immigration rules that give Cubans special opportunities to enter the United States and become residents.
最近几周，两国会面讨论了给予古巴人特殊机会来进入美国并成为居民的美国移民政策，古巴在会上谴责了该项目。
With so many Cubans worried that the coveted status will melt away now that diplomatic relations have been established with Havana, there has been a wave of people from all professions leaving the island over the past year.
许多古巴人担心，既然美国已与古巴政府建立外交关系，这一令人向往待遇将会消失。在这样的担忧之下，来自各种职业的大批人群在过去一年内离开了该岛国。
That has created a migration crisis, the Castro government contends, stranding thousands of Cuban migrants in Central America as they try to make their way over land to the United States.
卡斯特罗政府声称，这制造了一场移民危机，导致数千名试图通过陆路进入美国的古巴移民滞留中美洲。
The issue is a potent reminder, analysts say, of the stubborn differences that continue to divide the two governments despite the thaw. Robert Muse, a Washington-based lawyer who specializes in United States-Cuban law, called the medical workers program an “exploding cigar left over by the Bush administration” that President Obama should eliminate.  
分析人士表示，这个问题是一个强有力的警示，表明尽管关系解冻，但挥之不去的分歧仍将阻隔两国政府。罗伯特·谬斯(Robert Muse)是常驻华盛顿的一名律师，为美国-古巴法律专家，他把医疗专业人士豁免项目称为“布什政府遗留的爆炸雪茄”，而奥巴马总统应该予以废止。
“No country is going to welcome engineered defections of its nationals,” Mr. Muse said. The United States, he said, was “not acting in the spirit of normalized relations.”
“没有哪个国家会欢迎其国民被策划叛逃，”谬斯说。美国“没有本着关系正常化的精神行事。”
Cuba’s health system is a source of great international prestige for the government, which provides free training to thousands of Cubans and poor foreign students. The state offers universal, if far from perfect, medical care to its citizens and has won praise — even from the Obama administration — for sending medical brigades to help overseas.
古巴的医疗体系为成千上万的古巴人和贫穷外国学生提供免费培训，是古巴政府良好国际声望的一大来源。即使远称不上完美，但该国为国民提供了全民医疗，并因输送医疗队帮助其他国家而赢得赞誉——甚至赢得了奥巴马政府的赞誉。
Medical diplomacy is also an indispensable source of income: Cuba rents out the services of tens of thousands of doctors, nurses and dentists to other developing countries in exchange for billions of dollars’ worth of oil and cash.
医疗外交也是古巴必不可少的收入来源：古巴向其他发展中国家出租成千上万名医生、护士和牙医的服务，换得价值数十亿美元的石油和现金。
Such rewards, though, are won on the backs of medical professionals who work for little money in tough conditions, doctors say.
不过，医生们表示，这些回报都是在医疗专业人士的身上榨取的，他们在恶劣的条件下工作，收入十分微薄。
Dr. Lino Alberto Neira, an orthopedic surgeon who practiced in Cuba for 23 years before he left for Miami in 2013, said that his monthly salary of $25 back home barely lasted four days. He got by with tips from patients who worked in tourism, he said.
利诺·阿尔贝托·内拉(Lino Alberto Neira)是一名骨科医生，在2013年来到迈阿密之前，他曾在古巴执业23年。他说，自己在古巴的月薪为25美元，只能勉强撑得过四天。他依靠从事旅游业的患者的小费度日。
“Someone who cleans floors in a hotel is supporting you,” said Dr. Neira, speaking from Miami. “That’s very humiliating.”
“酒店清洁地板的工人在支撑着你。这太丢脸了，”身在迈阿密的内拉医生说。
Cuba more than doubled some doctors’ salaries last year, to about $70 a month. But faced with such small salaries at home, many doctors accept a posting overseas to make extra money.
去年，古巴将部分医生的月薪提高到70美元，增加了一倍有余。不过，面对国内如此低廉的薪水，许多医生接受派驻海外，以获得额外收入。
Still, they earn only a fraction of what the host country pays Cuba for their work.
然而，与他们服务的国家支付给古巴政府的钱相比，他们获得的收入只是九牛一毛。
Dr. Mara Martínez, a dentist who is Dr. Sánchez’s fiancée, said she was a staunch supporter of the Cuban revolution but became disillusioned when she arrived in Venezuela to find that she had to work six days a week and sleep three to a room for a salary of $210 a month. Venezuela, she was told by her supervisors, was paying $7,000 per month for her services.
桑切斯医生的未婚妻玛拉·马丁内斯(Mara Martínez)是一名牙医，自称是古巴革命的坚定支持者。但是，当她来到委内瑞拉，发现自己每周得工作六天、三人同住一屋、月薪仅210美元时，她的幻想破灭了。主管人员告诉她，委内瑞拉每月为她的服务支付了7000美元。
More than 7,000 Cubans have been approved for residency since the program began almost a decade ago, according to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
美国公民及移民服务局(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services)称，自从近10年前这个项目开始实施起，已有7000多名古巴人通过它获得美国的居留权。
According to Homeland Security statistics, 1,663 Cuban medical professionals posted overseas were accepted to enter the United States in the 2015 fiscal year, a 32 percent increase from the year before. The number of doctors admitted to the program has more than tripled since 2011, when 386 people were approved.
国土安全部的统计数据显示，2015财年，共有1663名在海外工作的古巴医疗专业人士获得了美国签证，相比于前一年增长了32%。而相比于2011年——当年有386人通过审核——经由这个项目获得签证的医生人数增长了两倍多。
Cuban officials have repeatedly assailed the medical parole program as a “reprehensible practice” aimed at “stealing” Cuban talent. A State Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the United States “does not recruit Cuban medical professionals,” but simply gives them a voluntary route to residency.
古巴官方不断抨击这个医疗豁免项目，说它旨在“攫取”古巴人才，“应该受到谴责”。美国国务院一位不具名的官员表示，美国“并不招募古巴医疗专业人员”，只是给他们提供自主获得居留权的途径。
In the spring, American approvals of doctors seeking asylum through Colombia slowed considerably, in what analysts took to be a gesture of good will as the United States prepared to open an embassy in Havana. The State Department denied any connection between the delays and warming relations, and said there were no “immediate plans” to scrap the parole program.
今年春季，对于古巴医生通过哥伦比亚寻求庇护的申请，美国的审批速度大大降低。分析人士认为这是美国因为准备在哈瓦那重开大使馆而做出的友好表示。美国国务院否认签证延迟和两国关系转暖之间存在任何联系，并表示不会很快废除豁免项目。
The Department of Homeland Security suggested that the delays were the result of the increased number of applicants. Dr. Martínez said that out of a group of 250 or so medical workers who were stranded, along with her and Dr. Sánchez, all but a dozen were eventually given residency.
国土安全部指出，签证延迟是因为申请人数增多。马丁内斯医生表示，在包括她和桑切斯医生在内的大约250名签证申请被延迟的医疗人员中，只有十多人最后没有获得居留权。
An American official who was not authorized to discuss the issue publicly said that the program had been held up because some applicants had presented fraudulent credentials, which caused the government to rigorously review documents.
一名没有被授权公开谈论此事的美国官员称，这个项目进展缓慢是因为有一些申请者提交了假资格证明，而这导致美国政府开始严格审核申请材料。
The Cuban government said it raised the issue of the program during migration talks with American officials late last month, but Cuban officials did not respond to emails or calls requesting further comment.
古巴政府表示，在上月末与美国官员进行有关移民的对话时，古巴曾提出有关这一项目的问题，但古巴官员没有回应时报通过邮件和电话提出的进一步置评的请求。
According to the United Nations, Cuba has one of the world’s highest rates of physicians per capita. But with so many deployed overseas, medical workers are fewer and less experienced than before the large overseas deployments began in the early 2000s, health workers and ordinary Cubans complain.
据联合国统计，古巴的人均拥有医生比率位居全世界最高之列。但医务工作者和古巴普通民众抱怨，因为有太多医疗人员派驻海外，所以相比于本世纪初大规模海外派遣开始之前，现在国内医疗人员的人数减少，经验也不比以前。
Medical professionals from any country who migrate to the United States often find that their credentials are inadequate and that the jobs that are available pay poorly.
从任何国家移民到美国的医疗专业人员往往都会发现，自己的从业资格不够，能找到的工作薪资也比较低。
In Miami, Dr. Neira is caring for an older Cuban man and studying to be a nurse because his Cuban qualifications are not recognized. In Paterson, Dr. Sánchez, who works on a ragged downtown strip in a job that pays $15 an hour, said he planned to do the same. First, though, Dr. Martínez, his fiancée, will try to get her dentistry license.
在迈阿密，内拉医生正在照顾一名年纪较大的古巴人，同时在为成为护士而进行学习，因为他的古巴资质在这里不被认可。在帕特森，桑切斯医生在内城一片破旧的区域工作，薪水为每小时15美元。他说自己也有同样的计划。不过，首先他的未婚妻马丁内斯会试着拿到牙医资格证书。
There are days, said Dr. Sánchez, especially weekends, when Paterson gets him down. “You start to think about family,” he said. “About your neighborhood. About what everyone would be doing on a Sunday. About the baseball game.”
桑切斯说，有些时候，尤其是周末，帕特森会让他感到沮丧。“你会开始想家，”他说。“想你的社区。想别人周日都在干什么。想棒球赛。”