The Beijing police have detained at least four people on suspicion of uploading or distributing a video of a couple having sex in a Uniqlo fitting room that was widely shared online last week.
上周，一段优衣库试衣间性爱视频在网上疯传。目前至少有四人因涉嫌上传或传播这段视频，被北京警方拘留。
It was not immediately clear whether the two people who appeared in the video were among those detained. A statement from the Beijing police on Sunday evening said a 19-year-old man from the northeastern city of Qiqihar had been detained on suspicion of uploading obscene material to the Sina Weibo microblog service. The three others were being held on suspicion of distributing the material.
目前还不清楚被拘留的人中是否包括视频的两名当事人。周日晚上，北京警方发布声明，称一名来自东北城市齐齐哈尔的19岁男子因涉嫌将淫秽内容上传至新浪微博被拘留。另有其他三人因涉嫌传播这些内容被拘留。
The statement said the police had “taken a step forward in handling” the man and woman who appeared in the video, without providing details. Some Chinese news reports said the police had detained at least five people, including the two who appeared in the video.
该声明说，对于视频中的一男一女，警方正在进行“进一步处理”，但没有提供细节。中国的一些新闻报道说，警方拘留了至少五人，包括视频的两名当事人。
Uniqlo, the Japanese clothing retailer, has denied having any role in the video, which some people initially suggested was a marketing stunt. Uniqlo said that none of its staff members were among those detained, The Beijing News reported.
有些人最初猜测这是日本服装零售商优衣库的营销噱头，但该公司否认以任何方式参与了该视频的拍摄和传播。据《新京报》报道，优衣库表示，公司没有任何工作人员遭到拘留。
The minute-long video, which was shot on a smartphone, swamped the Internet in China last week. On Wednesday it was widely posted, sometimes in the form of pixelated still images, on news sites, the Sina Weibo microblog, Tencent’s WeChat messaging service and elsewhere.
这段用智能手机拍摄的视频有一分钟长，上周在中国网络上疯传。周三，这段视频——有时候是截图——在新闻网站、新浪微博、腾讯微信及其他地方被广泛转发。
Chinese regulators summoned officials from Sina and Tencent, two of the country’s largest Internet companies, and warned them to “raise their sense of social responsibility” over the distribution of the video.
中国监管机构约谈了中国两大互联网公司新浪及腾讯的负责人，并警告称，在视频传播的问题上，他们必须“进一步提高社会责任意识”。
The phenomenon turned the Uniqlo where the video was shot, in the Sanlitun area of Beijing, into a landmark. While staff members closely guarded the store to prevent photography inside, people gathered outside to take pictures of themselves with the shop in the background.
这一热门事件使得视频拍摄地——北京三里屯优衣库门店成为一个地标。虽然店员严格把守商店，阻止在店内拍照的行为，但人们聚集在店外，以商店为背景合影。