BEIRUT — A double bombing struck the Iranian Embassy compound in Beirut on Tuesday, in the deadliest assault on Iran’s interests since it emerged as the most forceful backer of the Syrian government against an armed insurgency. The frontal attack struck a symbol of the country’s powerful influence in Lebanon and neighboring Syria.
贝鲁特——伊朗驻贝鲁特大使馆周二发生两起爆炸事件。这是伊朗成为叙利亚政府镇压反对派的最有力支持者以来，伊朗利益遭受到的伤亡最惨重的袭击。这次正面攻击的目标，正是伊朗在黎巴嫩及其邻国叙利亚所具有的巨大影响力的象征。
The Abdullah Azzam Brigades, an offshoot of Al Qaeda that operates in Lebanon, claimed responsibility for the bombings, which killed at least 23 people, including an Iranian diplomat. Syria, Iran and Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant organization, pointed fingers at Israel and Saudi Arabia, and officials said it was unclear who had carried out the attack. Regardless, it was quickly seen as retaliation against Iran and Hezbollah, Iran’s ally, for supporting the Syrian government.
在黎巴嫩活动的基地组织(Al Qaeda)分支“阿卜杜拉·阿扎姆旅”(Abdullah Azzam Brigades)宣称对爆炸事件负责。爆炸导致至少23人死亡，其中包括一名伊朗外交官。叙利亚、伊朗，以及黎巴嫩武装组织真主党(Hezbollah)将矛头指向以色列和沙特阿拉伯。一些官员则表示，尚不清楚是谁制造了此次袭击。不管怎样，袭击很快便被看作是对伊朗及其盟友真主党支持叙利亚政府的报复。
The double bombing highlighted the risks and costs that Iran faces over Syria, which some analysts have called Iran’s Vietnam. Others say Iran has successfully turned its support for Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, into a powerful international trump card that strengthens its hand in negotiations over its disputed nuclear program.
两起爆炸事件突显了伊朗在叙利亚问题上面临的风险和成本，一些分析人士把叙利亚称作“伊朗的越南”。其他一些人则表示，伊朗已成功地把对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的支持，变成了一张在国际社会讨价还价筹码。在围绕备受争议的伊朗核计划举行的谈判中，这个筹码可以增强伊朗的底气。
The morning attack occurred at a complex time for Iran. While the country’s support for Mr. Assad drains its popularity in much of the Arab world, a new, relatively moderate Iranian government seeks to transform its long-strained relations with the West. Iran is seeking to end crippling economic sanctions and reach an international deal on its nuclear program, which the United States and Israel say is aimed at making a nuclear bomb and which Iran says is for peaceful purposes.
对伊朗而言，早上的袭击事件发生的时机很复杂。尽管伊朗对阿萨德的支持，已经使该国在阿拉伯世界的许多地方不再受欢迎，但相对温和的新一届伊朗政府正在尝试改善与西方长期紧张的关系。伊朗正寻求结束严厉的经济制裁，并就自己的核计划达成一项国际协议。美国和以色列称伊朗核计划的目的是制造核武器，而伊朗则表示是出于和平目的。
“Today’s event demonstrates the political and economic costs of Syria for Iran,” said Cliff Kupchan, an Iran analyst at Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy based in Washington. “Syria is a kind of flytrap for the Iranians. They’re just stuck to it.”
“今天的事件显示出，伊朗需要因为叙利亚而付出怎样的政治、经济代价，”华盛顿的政治风险咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)伊朗问题分析师克里夫·库普乾(Cliff Kupchan)说。“对伊朗而言，叙利亚就像是一个捕蝇器。伊朗已经被粘在上面了。”
The two explosions sheared the face off a three-story building and damaged at least two other buildings in the area of the embassy compound, shattering windows in a wide radius beyond. Television images showed billowing black smoke, charred bodies in a rubble-strewn street lined with blackened trees, and parked cars set ablaze. Bystanders fled in panic from the blasts, the first one destroying the main gate of the embassy and the second coming from what news reports said was a suicide bomber who drove a motorcycle into the compound before detonating.
两起爆炸炸毁了一栋三层小楼的正面，同时也毁坏了大使馆附近的至少两栋建筑，震碎了周围很大区域内的窗户玻璃。电视画面上，黑烟滚滚，瓦砾遍地的街上躺着烧焦的尸体，街道两旁的树被熏黑了，停放的汽车也被烧着了。爆炸后，旁观者惊恐地四散奔逃。第一次爆炸炸毁了大使馆的正门。新闻报道称，第二起爆炸是一名自杀式袭击者骑着摩托冲进使馆院落后引爆的。
Providing Syria with weapons and military advisers siphons billions of dollars from Iran’s floundering economy, but the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the Revolutionary Guard Corps see the alliance as “the key to national security,” Mr. Kupchan said. Iran, he said, views Syria as an indispensable deterrent against Israel.
库普乾说，伊朗从本就不景气的经济中抽出了数十亿美元，用于向叙利亚提供武器和军事顾问，但伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)和革命卫队(Revolutionary Guard Corps)却认为，与叙利亚的同盟“是国家安全的关键”。他还表示，伊朗认为叙利亚是对抗以色列必不可少的威慑力量。
But for some in the government of President Hassan Rouhani and others in the reformist camp, “the Vietnam analogy does work,” Mr. Kupchan said. “It’s an endless drain on Iran’s resources, to support a dictator who probably used chemical weapons and probably won’t be around in the future.”
但库普乾表示，对伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)政府的部分人员，以及改革派阵营的其他一些人而言，“‘越南’这个比喻很贴切。支持一个可能使用过化学武器，而且未来可能会倒台的独裁者，会无休止地耗费伊朗的资源。”
Those differing views will play out in how Iran chooses to respond to what analysts called an unprecedented provocation. Iran is seen as a dominant influence in Lebanon, where it is secure in its alliance with Hezbollah, Lebanon’s most powerful political, social and military force. The bombs, which struck near Hezbollah’s security zone in southern Beirut, raised the specter of continued attacks against Iranian diplomats in countries where the ripple effects of the Syrian war are most strongly felt: Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Turkey.
这起事件被分析人士称为前所未有的挑衅，上述相互冲突的观点也会影响伊朗对这起事件做出的选择。伊朗被认为在黎巴嫩有主导性的影响力，它与真主党有着稳固的盟友关系。真主党是黎巴嫩势力最强大的政治、社会和军事力量。发生在贝鲁特南部真主党安全区附近的这两起爆炸，使人们开始担忧驻黎巴嫩、伊拉克、约旦和土耳其的伊朗外交官可能会继续受到袭击。叙利亚战争对这几个国家产生的影响最为剧烈。
By blaming Israel, a unifying foe for supporters and opponents of the Syrian insurgency, Iranian officials appeared to be signaling that they did not immediately intend to escalate the confrontation. That stance was echoed by Hezbollah, which has sought to avoid all-out war in Lebanon.
伊朗官方将事件归咎于以色列，也就是叙利亚反抗运动的支持者和反对者共同的敌人。通过这样做，伊朗似乎是在表示，他们当前并不打算将对抗升级。这一立场与真主党类似，后者一直试图避免在黎巴嫩展开全面战争。
Yet Iran’s allies also blamed Saudi Arabia, which they accuse of colluding with Israel and the West to punish Iran, Syria and Hezbollah for their anti-Israel stance and to curb Iran’s regional power. That is a combustible allegation as tensions rise over Syria, increasingly seen as a proxy war between Sunni-led Saudi Arabia and Shiite-led Iran.
不过，伊朗的盟友也将爆炸事件归咎于沙特阿拉伯，指责该国与以色列及西方串通起来，一方面因反以立场而惩罚伊朗、叙利亚和真主党，另一方面限制伊朗的地区影响力。叙利亚内战越来越多地被外界认为是以逊尼派为主的沙特阿拉伯和以什叶派为主的伊朗之间爆发的间接战争。随着紧张局势的升级，这种指责无异于火上浇油。
Iran’s government may face pressure from hard-liners to retaliate, but will want to avoid rocking the boat as it seeks a nuclear deal in talks that resume Wednesday in Geneva and a seat at planned peace talks over Syria, said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, a political science professor and Iran expert at Syracuse University’s Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs.
雪城大学(Syracuse University)麦克斯韦尔公民与公共事务学院(Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs)政治学教授及伊朗问题专家迈赫尔扎德·布鲁杰迪(Mehrzad Boroujerdi)认为，尽管伊朗政府或许面临着强硬派要求采取报复的压力，但是应该会在这个当口避免惹是生非。伊朗正寻求周三重启在日内瓦举行的核问题谈判，还想在计划中的叙利亚和谈中占据一席之地。
“Whoever did this was thinking the following: A, we can attack Iranians at this point in time, and they cannot lift a finger against us. Or B, we are going to force them into doing something radical, in which the world is going to have second thoughts about inviting them to Syria negotiations,” Mr. Boroujerdi said.
“不管是谁干的，背后的想法是这样的：要么是，我们有能力在这个时间点攻击伊朗，而他们没法对我们动一根毫毛；要么是，我们要逼他们做点出格的事情，这样全世界就会犹豫，要不要请他们参加叙利亚谈判，”布鲁杰迪说。