The discussion on cyberthreats has finally gone public. For years, governments have treated damage from cyberattacks as classified information, while the private sector has kept damage secret in order not to scare off customers and investors.
有关网络威胁的讨论终于公开化了。多年来，各国政府一直都把因网络攻击而蒙受的损失当做机密信息，而私营领域也对这种损失缄口不言，以免吓走客户和投资者。
Recent high-profile cyberattacks such as those on The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and the U.S. Federal Reserve are only the tip of the iceberg. Cyberattacks, whether random or targeted, whether successful or not, have increased to the point that we are seeing a paradigm shift: We have become aware that transparency and shared knowledge can increase protection and strengthen security.
近期的高调网络攻击，例如《纽约时报》、《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)和美联储(U.S. Federal Reserve)等所遭受的那些，都只是冰山一角。无论网络攻击是随机的，还是有目标的，无论是否成功，其数量都越来越多，多到了改变观念的地步：我们意识到，透明度和知识共享可以加强保护，并且提高安全性。
The damage resulting from malicious cyberactivities, such as theft of personal data or intellectual property, is enormous, even if mainly economic for now. But, like any other terror attack, cyberattacks have the potential to damage critical infrastructure and to create unprecedented disasters.
偷盗个人信息或知识产权等恶意网络行为，虽然目前造成的损失主要是经济上的，但是损失非常巨大。而且，网络攻击与其他任何一种恐怖袭击一样，都有可能毁坏关键基础设施，并制造前所未有的灾难。
Last year, Deutsche Telekom (I am the chief executive) started to disclose information about cyberattacks. To institutionalize this approach, we organized — together with the Munich Security Conference — a Cyber Security Summit with major German industries. The positive reception encouraged us to set up a follow-up summit in 2013.
去年，德国电信(Deutsche Telekom)开始公布网络攻击信息（我是这家公司的首席执行官）。为了把这种做法制度化，我们与慕尼黑安全会议(Munich Security Conference)携手举办了一次有德国主要产业参与的网络安全峰会(Cyber Security Summit)。峰会得到了积极响应，我们也因此备受鼓舞，决定在2013年举行一场后续峰会。
A “neighborhood watch” is key to success in cyberdefense. We need to establish “single points of contact” for rapid alerts and information exchange across all industries. A good role model for this is the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) in the information technology sector. To create additional awareness, we are developing a “real time situation monitor” with an actual overview on imminent cyberthreats. Sharing information while an attack is happening will allow us to update our security measures in real time.
“邻里互助”制度是网络防卫成功的关键。我们需要建立“单点联系人”体系，以迅速示警并在所有产业之间交换信息。关于这一点，有个好榜样是信息科技领域的社区紧急事态应对小组(Community Emergency Response Team)机制。为了增进我们对危险的了解，我们正在开发一种“实时情景监控”功能，可以真正监控重大网络攻击。在攻击发生时分享信息，能使我们实时更新安全措施。
Transparency about cyberattacks has only just begun and we need to accelerate our efforts. Attackers use the advantages of combined forces. They bundle the power of hundreds of thousands of computer systems in botnets in order to carry out large-scale attacks.
网络攻击透明化才刚刚开始，我们需要加速这项工作。攻击者集合多股力量进行攻击，他们利用的就是这种优势。他们把几万个电脑系统的力量聚合在僵尸网络之中，以发动大规模攻击。
Why don’t we take the same approach when it comes to cybersecurity? Voluntary information sharing is one element of such a collaborative effort; another could be to share the resources already in place, including expert know-how, to make our defensive efforts more powerful and efficient.
为什么我们在保护网络安全时不使用这种策略呢？自愿分享信息是这种协作的一个组成部分；另一部分就是共享专家技术等现有的资源，使我们的防卫更加强大有效。
Industry, for the most part, is willing to do what it takes to secure cyberspace. Other stakeholders have to do their homework as well. A concern of industry is that rules and regulations have not kept pace with the technological developments — both in offense and defense.
各产业基本上都愿意竭尽所能保卫网络安全。其他利益相关方也需要完成自己的任务。各产业的担心是，法律法规未能与技术发展同步，在攻击和守卫领域都是如此。
A set of basic and accepted rules-of-the-road protects our physical highways and traffic, and we have to have similar, internationally recognized rules for the information highway. We must define standards and functionalities in order to ensure a safe and coherent digital architecture. A good example is the German security standard for “smart meters” that monitor and bill power consumption.
一套广为接受的基本交通规则保护着我们的高速公路和交通。对于信息高速公路，我们也要有类似的国际社会认可的规则。我们必须明确标准及功能，以保证数字世界的安全与和谐。德国安全标准“智能电表”(smart meters)就是一个好例子。这种制度用于监测能耗，并开出账单。
This will not be easy for the I.T. industry. In Europe, the sheer number of Internet providers makes it difficult to find a common position. Again, transparency and information sharing is essential: Every sound effort to implement such rules and standards relies on feedback about vulnerabilities, as well as data on the quantity, quality and origin of attacks. One cannot manage a problem until one can measure it.
这对IT产业来说并不容易。在欧洲，网络供应商的数量非常多，这使得他们很难找到一个共同出发点。透明和信息共享在这里也很关键：有效执行这些规矩和标准，都要依赖关于弱点的反馈报告，以及攻击数量、质量和来源的有关数据。只有能够衡量问题时，才能解决问题。
All stakeholders in the Internet ecosystem should join this “collective cybersecurity alliance.” Hardware and software suppliers have the same responsibility for cybersecurity as infrastructure providers, and must act on it. Once a vulnerable product has been supplied, it is almost impossible to achieve an appropriate level of security. The I.T. industry has to rethink this. Cybersecurity will become more of a consideration for consumers.
互联网生态系统的全部利益攸关方都应该加入这个“网络安全集体联盟”。对于网络安全，软硬件供应商有着和基础设施供应商同样的责任，必须有所作为。一旦厂商供应了一种具有弱点的产品，我们就几乎不可能达到足够的安全水平。在这一点上，IT业需要反思。消费者会越来越看重网络安全。
But the end user — the weakest link in cybersecurity — must also act responsibly. Homeowners secure their property when they go out; Internet users must be as diligent in protecting digital assets. If all users kept their I.T. systems up to date, most attacks would be unsuccessful.
但是，作为网络安全中最薄弱的一环，终端用户也必须负起责任。房屋拥有者出门时会确保财产安全；因特网用户也必须同样勤谨地保护数字资产。如果所有用户都保证他们的IT系统及时更新，多数攻击不会成功。
Finally, we must accelerate innovation in cybersecurity. When the Internet was designed, security was not a priority. Today, we see constantly evolving new technologies — such as mobile networks, smart grids or cloud computing — and ever-increasing interconnection. This opens doors to advanced threats. Thus our defense capabilities need to be dynamic and flexible.
最后，我们必须加速网络安全创新。在互联网的最初设计阶段，安全并非首要考虑因素。如今，移动网络、智能电网及云计算等新技术不断进步，网络的连接性也越来越强。这些都为各种重大威胁打开了大门。所以，我们的防卫能力需要灵活且有力。
Very often, it is the agile, creative, technology-savvy start-up companies that are best able to deal with new cyberthreats. We need to work with them and equip them with appropriate venture capital.
那些灵活的、具有创造力的、熟谙技术的创业公司常常最善于应对新的网络袭击。我们需要与他们合作，为他们提供适当的风险投资。