Three months after retiring as host of “The Daily Show,” Jon Stewart has signed a production deal with the premium cable channel HBO, the channel announced on Tuesday.
周二（11月3日），付费有线频道HBO宣布，《日间秀》(The Daily Show)主持人乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)在告别该节目三个月后与HBO签订了制片合约。
As part of the arrangement, Mr. Stewart will work on some digital short projects that are expected to appear on HBO’s apps like HBO Now and HBO Go. Mr. Stewart could also pursue movie or television projects with the network. The contract covers four years.
根据合约，斯图尔特将参与制作一些数字短片，那些短片有望出现在HBO的应用程序上，比如HBO Now和HBO Go。斯图尔特可能还会与该电视台合拍电影或电视节目。合约期限为四年。
HBO said that the first project from Mr. Stewart, done in conjunction with the graphics company Otoy, will be the digital shorts, which the cable channel said would be focused on current events and could be refreshed on its HBO Now app throughout the day.
HBO称，斯图尔特的第一个项目是与制图公司Otoy合作拍摄数字短片，这些短片将聚焦时事，全天候在HBO Now上更新。
The length of the shorts is still being discussed but they are expected to be between two and five minutes, an HBO spokeswoman said. Mr. Stewart will not appear on camera but viewers can expect to hear his voice on the shorts, the spokeswoman added.
HBO的一位女发言人说，短片的长度仍在讨论中，不过预计在两分钟至五分钟之间，斯图尔特不会出现在镜头里，但是观众有望在短片中听到他的声音。
“Appearing on television 22 minutes a night clearly broke me,” Mr. Stewart said in a statement. “I’m pretty sure I can produce a few minutes of content every now and again.”
“每天晚上在电视上出现22分钟真的让我很崩溃，”斯图尔特在声明中说，“我确信自己可以时不时地制作几分钟长的内容。”
Mr. Stewart is the latest big name HBO has landed as it ramps up efforts to generate more content and bring in more sales for HBO Now, its $15-a-month stand-alone app. In March, HBO announced that Vice would produce a daily newscast, the first of its kind for the cable channel. (The former Bloomberg Businessweek editor Josh Tyrangiel was hired to run the show last month.) In July, HBO hired Bill Simmons, formerly of ESPN, to host a talk show, and in August, HBO secured the rights to run new episodes of “Sesame Street.”
斯图尔特是HBO最新聘请的名人。该频道正在努力制作更多内容，促进HBO Now的销售，这款独立应用程序的月费是15美元。今年3月，HBO宣布，Vice将为该频道制作一个每日新闻节目，此类节目前所未有（上个月，《彭博商业周刊》[Bloomberg Businessweek]的前编辑乔希·提兰吉尔[Josh Tyrangiel]受聘运营这个节目）。今年7月，HBO聘请ESPN的前主持人比尔·西蒙斯(Bill Simmons)来主持一个脱口秀；今年8月，HBO获得了《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)新剧集的播放权。
HBO has not released sales numbers for HBO Now, which debuted in April. In a statement, the channel’s president for programming, Michael Lombardo, said of Mr. Stewart, “He graced our network nearly 20 years ago, so we’re thrilled to welcome back his immense talents in this next chapter of his career.”
HBO尚未公布HBO Now的销售数量，该应用程序是今年4月推出的。HBO的节目主管迈克尔·隆巴尔多(Michael Lombardo)在声明中说，“大约20年前，我们电视台曾有幸与斯图尔特合作，如今我们非常兴奋地欢迎他回来，预祝他凭借杰出的才华开启事业新篇章”。