GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — When war between Israel and Hamas broke out two weeks ago, the Palestinian militant group was so hamstrung, politically, economically and diplomatically, that its leaders appeared to feel they had nothing to lose.
加沙地带加沙城——两周前，当以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)之间的战争爆发时，这个巴勒斯坦激进组织在政治、经济和外交上均深陷困境，以至于其领导人似乎觉得自己再无可失了。
Hamas took what some here call “option zero,” gambling that it could shift the balance with its trump cards: its arms and militants.
于是，哈马斯采取了被这里的一些人称作“零选项”的策略，赌自己能用手中的王牌——武器和武装分子——来让天平倾斜。
“There were low expectations in terms of its performance against the recent round of Israeli incursions. It’s been exceeding all expectations,” said Abdullah Al-Erian, a professor at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service in Qatar who is currently in Washington. “And it’s likely to come out in a far better position than in the last three years, and maybe the last decade.”
“对于哈马斯应对以色列最近一轮攻击的表现，外界本来没抱什么期望。但它超越了所有预期，”乔治城大学卡塔尔外事学院(Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service in Qatar)的教授阿卜杜拉·埃里安(Abdullah Al-Erian)说。“哈马斯可能会迎来远比过去三年，乃至过去十年更好的局面。”埃里安目前身在华盛顿。
Hamas had been struggling. The turmoil in the region meant it lost one of its main sponsors, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, whom it broke with over his brutal fight against a Sunni Muslim-led insurgency, and weakened its alliance with Iran. It lost support in Egypt when the Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi, was ousted and replaced with a military-backed government hostile to Hamas.
在此之前，哈马斯一直在苦苦挣扎。中东地区的动荡意味着，它失去了主要的赞助者之一叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，并且削弱了与伊朗的联盟。阿萨德残酷打压逊尼派穆斯林领导的反抗运动，导致与哈马斯分道扬镳。此外，埃及的伊斯兰派总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)遭到罢黜，并被由军方支持且对哈马斯有敌意的政府取代，使得埃及不再支持哈马斯。
Unemployment in Gaza is around 50 percent, having risen steeply since Israel pulled out its troops and settlers in 2005 and severely tightened border restrictions. Hamas appeared powerless to end the near-blockade of its border by Israel and more recently Egypt. It could not even pay its 40,000 government workers their salaries.
以色列2005年从加沙撤出军队和定居者，并严格加强边境控制。自那以后，加沙的失业率大幅上升，目前在50%左右。哈马斯似乎无力打破以色列以及最近埃及对其边境施加的近乎全面封锁。它甚至无力支付4万名政府工作人员的薪水。
The group was so handicapped that it agreed to enter into a pact with its rival party, Fatah, to form a new government. But that seemed only to make matters worse, sowing division within its own ranks, with some in the military wing angry at the concession, while providing none of the economic relief Hamas had hoped for.
哈马斯面临的障碍如此之大，以致于同意和老对手法塔赫(Fatah)订立协议，以组建一个新政府。但此举似乎只让事情变得更糟：在武装分支的一些人对这种让步感到愤怒的情况下，这么做在内部造成了分歧，却又根本没带来哈马斯所希望的经济改善。
When Hamas sent a barrage of rockets into Israel, simmering hostilities, and back and forth strikes, erupted into war.
当哈马斯向以色列接连发射火箭弹时，一触即发的敌意和来来回回的袭击爆发成了战争。
At first, when Hamas rockets were being intercepted mainly by Israel’s Iron Dome system as Israel hit Gaza with devastating force, the group strove to persuade its supporters that it was having enough impact on Israel to wrest concessions: its radio stations blared fictional reports about Israeli casualties.
起初，哈马斯的火箭弹大多被以色列的铁穹(Iron Dome)系统拦截，而以色列军队对加沙造成了毁灭性打击。此时，哈马斯努力让支持者相信，它对以色列的冲击足以让对方让步：哈马斯的广播台大肆宣扬着有关以色列伤亡情况的虚假报道。
But as it wore on, the conflict revealed that Hamas’s secret tunnel network leading into Israel was far more extensive, and sophisticated, than previously known. It also was able to inflict some pain on Israel, allowing Hamas to declare success even as it drew a devastating and crushing response. Its fighters were able to infiltrate Israel multiple times during an intensive Israeli ground invasion. Its militants have killed at least 27 Israeli soldiers and claim to have captured an Israeli soldier who was reported missing in battle, a potentially key bargaining chip.
然而，随着时间的推移，冲突中逐渐显露出，哈马斯延伸进以色列的秘密隧道网络远比外界之前所知的更广泛、更复杂。这个网络还有能力让以色列吃些苦头，这样，即便是引发了毁灭性的回应，哈马斯也能宣称自己取得了胜利。在以色列发动激烈的地面进攻期间，哈马斯武装分子多次成功地渗透进对方的领地。哈马斯武装人员已杀死了至少27名以色列士兵，并称俘获了一人。据报道，这名士兵在战斗中失踪。此人可能会成为一个关键的谈判筹码。
And on Tuesday its rockets struck a blow to Israel — psychological and economic — by forcing a halt in international flights. Hamas once again looks strong in the eyes of its supporters, and has shown an increasingly hostile region that it remains a force to be reckoned with.
周二，哈马斯的火箭弹迫使国际航班停飞，在心理和经济上重创以色列。哈马斯再次在支持者眼里表现得强大起来，并且向日益不友善的周边势力展示，它依然是一支不可小觑的力量。
Hamas, Mr. Arian said, has demonstrated that “as a movement, it is simply not going anywhere.”
埃里安表示，哈马斯已经表明，“作为一场运动，它会坚守阵地。”
But Hamas’s gains could be short-lived if it does not deliver Gazans a better life. Israel imposes severe restrictions on what can be brought into Gaza, such as construction materials, because it sees Hamas as serious security threat, and the discovery of the tunnels has served only to validate that concern.
不过，倘若不能让加沙居民过上更好的生活，哈马斯的成果可能只是暂时的。以色列对建筑材料等能被带进加沙的物品实行严格限制，因为以色列视哈马斯为严重的安全威胁，而隧道的发现不过是证实了这一担忧。
So far, at least 620 Palestinians have died, most of them, civilians, according to the United Nations, including more than 100 children. Gazans did not get a vote when Hamas chose to escalate conflict, nor did they when Hamas selected areas near their homes, schools and mosques to fire rockets from the densely populated strip. At the family house of four boys killed last week by an Israeli strike while playing on a beach, some wailing women cursed Hamas along with Israel.
迄今为止，至少已有620名巴勒斯坦人丧生。联合国称，遇难者中大部分为平民，其中包括100多个孩子。在哈马斯选择升级冲突时，加沙居民并没有话语权。在这片人口稠密的狭长地带，当哈马斯选择在居民的房屋、学校和清真寺附近的地区发射火箭弹时，他们也没有话语权。上周，在海滩玩耍的来自同一家庭的四名男孩在以色列的袭击中丧生。在他们的家里，一些恸哭的女子在咒骂以色列的同时，也咒骂哈马斯。
Omar Shaban, an economist and political independent, sat in his walled garden in the southern Gaza town of Deir al-Balah on Wednesday as shells crackled nearby, and said he fervently hoped, but also doubted, that both Hamas and Israel’s government would reach for a substantive deal.
周三，在加沙南部的代尔巴拉赫，当炮弹在附近爆炸时，坐在自家有围墙的花园里的经济学者、政治独立派人士奥马尔·沙班(Omar Shaban)表示，他热切希望，哈马斯和以色列政府努力达成一项实质性协议，却又对此深表怀疑。
“This war will end tomorrow or after tomorrow, we will have another cease-fire, we will have another siege and Hamas will continue to run the scene,” he said.
“这轮战争会在明天或后天结束，我们会再次迎来停火，再次被围困，然后哈马斯会继续上演这种戏码，”他说。
“Gaza is a big problem for everybody, for Hamas, for Fatah, for Israel,” he added, ticking off the list: shortages of water, housing and medicine, a population explosion, growing extremism.
“对包括哈马斯、法塔赫和以色列在内的所有人而言，加沙都是个大问题，”沙班接着说。他一一列举这里的种种问题：水资源短缺、住房、医疗、人口爆炸，以及极端主义日益恶化。
In exchange for a cease-fire, Hamas is demanding Israel and Egypt open their borders to end the restrictions on the movement of people and goods — the most immediate issue for ordinary Gazans. It is also asking for the release of prisoners — but avoiding the deeper political issues of the conflict..
作为停火的交换，哈马斯要求以色列和埃及开放边境，终结对人员和商品流动的限制。对普通加沙居民而言，这是最迫切的问题。哈马斯还要求释放囚犯——但却避开了这场冲突中更深层次的政治问题。
Mr. Shaban said that Hamas, confronted in recent years with the often conflicting requirements of its roles as an armed resistance group and a governing party, for once was “being clever enough to demand conditions that are in touch with the people. The people are realistic.”
近些年来，哈马斯面临着人们对它提出的往往相互矛盾的要求，既要扮演武装抵抗组织的角色，又要担任执政党。沙班表示，哈马斯这一次“够聪明，要求的是和民众息息相关的条件。民众是现实的。”