In the years before Hillary Clinton announced she would run again for president, her top aides expressed profound concerns in internal emails about how foreign donations to the Clinton Foundation and Bill Clinton’s own moneymaking ventures would affect Hillary Clinton’s political future.
在希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)宣布她将再次竞选总统之前的那几年里，其高级助手在内部邮件中曾对克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)收到的外国捐赠以及比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)个人的营利性项目可能对她的政治前途产生的影响深表担忧。
The emails, obtained by hackers and being gradually released by WikiLeaks this month, also are revealing how efforts to minimize potential conflicts at the foundation led to power struggles and infighting among aides and Hillary Clinton’s family.
相关邮件落到了黑客手中，并于本月由维基解密(WikiLeaks)分批公之于众。从邮件中还可以看出，为尽量降低在基金会出现潜在冲突的可能性而采取的举措，在助手们以及希拉里·克林顿的家人中间引发了怎样的权力纷争和内斗。
One top aide to Bill Clinton, Douglas J. Band, noted in an email that the former president had received personal income from some foundation donors and “gets many expensive gifts from them.”
比尔·克林顿的高级助手道格拉斯·J·班德(Douglas J. Band)曾在一封邮件中指出，基金会的一些外国捐赠者为这位前总统带来过个人收入，他还“从他们那里收到了许多昂贵的礼物”。
Chelsea Clinton accused her father’s aides of taking “significant sums of money from my parents personally,” of “hustling” during foundation events to win clients for their own business, and of even installing spyware on her chief of staff’s computer.
切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)则指责她父亲的助手：“私下里从我父母那里拿走了大把的钱”；在基金会举办活动期间“争相”为自己的生意招揽客户；甚至曾在她的办公室主任的电脑上安装间谍软件。
Hillary Clinton, another email showed, had promised to attend a Clinton Foundation gathering in Morocco at the behest of its king, who had pledged $12 million to the charity. Her advisers worried that would look unseemly just as she was beginning her presidential campaign in earnest.
另一封邮件显示，希拉里·克林顿曾应摩洛哥国王的要求，答应出席克林顿基金会在摩洛哥举办的一场活动，而后者此前承诺为基金会捐款1200万美元。她的助手担心这看起来不大好，因为她当时刚刚开始大张旗鼓地参加总统竞选。
“She created this mess and she knows it,” a close aide, Huma Abedin, wrote of Hillary Clinton in a January 2015 email.
“她制造了这个烂摊子，她知道这一点，”希拉里·克林顿的亲密助手胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)在2015年1月的一封邮件中这样提及她。
For months, the Clintons have defended their family foundation, making public proclamations that it went above and beyond what the law required in terms of transparency while Hillary Clinton was at the State Department.
数月来，克林顿夫妇一直在为自家的基金会辩护，他们曾公开宣布：在希拉里·克林顿担任国务卿期间，基金会的透明度远远高出法律的要求。
The emails, which came from the account of John D. Podesta, who had a leadership role at the foundation and is now Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, have not contained evidence to support Republican contentions that Hillary Clinton performed any favors for foundation donors.
这些邮件来自约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D.Podesta)的邮箱，他曾在克林顿基金会担任领导角色，目前是希拉里·克林顿的竞选主席。共和党人认为希拉里·克林顿曾给基金会的捐赠者帮忙，但邮件中并不含有支持这一观点的证据。
But they do show pronounced worries among the Clintons’ closest advisers about the millions of dollars coming into the foundation, and to Bill Clinton personally, and how they could inoculate Hillary Clinton from criticism over it.
不过，透过这些邮件的确可以看出，克林顿夫妇的一些心腹顾问对基金会以及比尔·克林顿本人收到的数以百万美元计的捐款，以及他们如何才能避免让希拉里·克林顿因为这些捐款而招致批评深感担忧。
“Do they plan to do big events next year?” her campaign manager, Robby Mook, asked about the foundation last year, shortly after Hillary Clinton kicked off her presidential campaign. “Possible for those to be smaller and lower key in 16?”
“他们明年还打算搞大的活动吗？”希拉里·克林顿于去年启动竞选活动后不久，她的竞选经理罗比·莫克(Robby Mook)曾问及基金会的情况。“在2016年，那些活动能不能缩小规模、保持低调？”
Founded in 1997, when Bill Clinton was still president, the foundation has raised roughly $2 billion to fund projects around the world, helping African farmers improve their yields, Haitians recover from a devastating 2010 earthquake and millions of people gain access to cheaper HIV/AIDS medication, among other accomplishments.
基金会成立于1997年，当时比尔·克林顿还在任上，迄今已经募集了大约20亿美元资金，在世界各地资助了许多项目，其成就包括帮助非洲农民提高产量，让海地人从2010年的一场毁灭性地震中恢复过来，以及为数百万人提供获得更便宜的HIV/AIDS治疗药物的渠道等等。
Some of the former president’s staff members followed him from the White House to the foundation, and the emails provide an extraordinary look at the soap opera that unfolded years later as people close to the couple felt their power threatened.
比尔·克林顿的一些幕僚追随着他，从白宫到了基金会，而这些邮件让世人难得地看到了多年后上演的一出肥皂剧——那时，与克林顿夫妇关系密切的人觉得自己的权力受到了威胁。
“This is the 3rd time this week where she has gone to daddy to change a decision or interject herself,” Band, the longtime aide to Bill Clinton, wrote about Chelsea Clinton in 2011.
“这是本周第三次了，她去找她老爸，说服他改变决定或者让自己插一脚，”2011年，比尔·克林顿的老助手班德在邮件中这样提及切尔西·克林顿。
At the time, she was beginning to exert influence at the foundation, expressing concerns that Band and others were trying to use the charity to make money for themselves, and accusing another aide in her father’s personal office of installing spyware.
那会儿，她刚刚开始在克林顿基金会发挥影响力，怀疑班德等人试图利用基金会为个人牟利，还指责他父亲的私人办公室里的一个助手曾安装间谍软件。
Emails released on Tuesday contained a memo from Band essentially defending his work for the foundation, and for Bill Clinton personally, even as Band was building up his political consulting firm, Teneo. The memo noted that some foundation donors had indeed been clients of Teneo, but also that Band and Teneo had helped raise tens of millions of dollars for the foundation from individual, foreign and corporate donors, without taking a commission.
周二公布的邮件包含一份来自班德的备忘录，从内容看基本是就班德为基金会以及比尔·克林顿个人所做的工作进行辩护，尽管他当时正致力于让自己的政治咨询公司Teneo发展壮大。这份备忘录指出，基金会的一些捐赠者的确在之前是Teneo的客户，但班德和Teneo也帮助基金会从个人捐赠者、外国捐赠者和企业捐赠者那里募集了数千万美元善款，而且没有收取佣金。
Band also noted how some of those donors he had cultivated were paying Bill Clinton privately to make speeches or to do other work. One such donor, Laureate International Universities, a for-profit education company based in Baltimore, was paying Bill Clinton $3.5 million annually “to provide advice” and serve as its honorary chairman, Band wrote.
班德还指出了他发展的一些捐赠者是如何付钱给比尔·克林顿本人，请他去发表演讲或者做其他工作的。劳瑞特国际大学联盟(Laureate International Universities)便是此类捐赠者之一，这家总部位于巴尔的摩的营利性教育公司曾向比尔·克林顿支付每年350万美元的费用，请他“提供建议”并担任名誉主席，班德写道。
In another email, Band wrote that Bill Clinton had even received gifts from some donors.
在另一封邮件中，班德提及比尔·克林顿甚至收取了来自一些捐赠者的礼物。
The tensions came to a head when Chelsea Clinton helped enlist an outside law firm to audit the Clinton Foundation’s practices. Some interviewees told the audit team that the donors “may have an expectation of quid pro quo benefits in return for gift.” The audit suggested the foundation “ensure that all donors are properly vetted and that no inappropriate quid pro quos are offered to donors in return for contributions.”
当切尔西·克林顿帮助雇用了一家外部律所来审计克林顿基金会的运营情况时，局面变得极为紧张。一些受访者告诉审计小组，捐赠者“可能希望以礼物换取相应的回报”。审计人员建议基金会“应该确保所有捐赠者都受到适当的审查，并确保不会为了回报捐赠者而向其提供相应的不当好处”。
The advice proved prescient as Hillary Clinton faced intense scrutiny about whether donors to the Clinton Foundation had received special access to her State Department or other rewards. In August, the foundation said it would no longer accept foreign donations should Hillary Clinton win the White House.
事实证明这一建议颇具远见：相关方面果然对希拉里·克林顿进行了严厉的审视，看基金会的捐助者是否获取了通向她领导下的国务院的特殊渠道，或其他回报。基金会在今年8月宣布，如果希拉里·克林顿入主白宫，它将不再接受外国的捐赠。
Hillary Clinton has dismissed criticism of the charity as politically motivated. A spokesman for the Clinton campaign, Glen Caplin, declined to verify the authenticity of the emails, but said the hack was part of the Russian government’s efforts to use cyberattacks to influence the election in favor of the Republican nominee, Donald Trump.
希拉里·克林顿驳斥说，指向基金会的批评背后隐藏着政治动机。克林顿竞选团队的发言人格伦·卡普林(Glen Caplin)拒绝证实这些邮件的真实性，但表示，此次入侵是俄罗斯政府以网络攻击影响美国大选，为共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)助阵的部分努力。
Band’s firm released a statement saying: “Teneo worked to encourage clients, where appropriate, to support the Clinton Foundation because of the good work that it does around the world. It also clearly shows that Teneo never received any financial benefit or benefit of any kind from doing so.”
班德的公司发表声明称：“Teneo致力于鼓励客户在适当的情况下支持克林顿基金会，因为它在世界各地做着各种慈善工作。它还明确指出，Teneo从未借此获得任何经济利益或者任何形式的好处。”
Behind the scenes, Hillary Clinton’s aides grappled with how to sever her from the problematic optics of some of the philanthropy’s fundraising practices.
在幕后，希拉里·克林顿的助手们想方设法地把她与公众眼中基金会的一些不良募款做法切割开。
In an October 2014 email, Mook asked whether Hillary Clinton’s name would be used in connection with the foundation, which is formally known as the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation. “It will invite press scrutiny and she’ll be held accountable for what happens there,” he wrote.
在2014年10月的一封邮件中，莫克曾问起希拉里·克林顿的名字是否会在基金会的活动中被用到，该机构的正式名称为比尔、希拉里和切尔西·克林顿基金会(Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation)。“这会引来媒体的密切关注，而她会被揪出来为发生的事情负责，”他写道。
The next year, when Hillary Clinton was on the verge of declaring her candidacy, Cheryl D. Mills, a lawyer and top aide, said she discussed with Hillary Clinton various “steps” to take to adjust her relationship with the foundation, including her resignation from the foundation’s board.
下一年里，在希拉里·克林顿即将宣布参选之际，她的律师兼高级助手谢里尔·D·米尔斯(Cheryl D. Mills)说自己和希拉里·克林顿讨论过为了调整她和基金会的关系而要采取的各种“步骤”，包括她从基金会董事会辞职。
By fall 2015, Hillary Clinton’s aides had fine-tuned her response to questions about foreign donors. “As president, I won’t permit any conflicts between my work for the American people and the Foundation’s good work,” aides advised Hillary Clinton to say in a coming debate.
到了2015年秋天，希拉里·克林顿的助手对她回应外国捐助者问题时的措辞进行了微调。“作为总统，我不会允许在自己服务于美国人民的工作和基金会的慈善事业之间出现冲突，”助手们建议希拉里·克林顿在即将到来的一场辩论中这样说。
The emails give insight into the periodic fires that Hillary Clinton’s advisers thought they had to put out. Hillary Clinton ultimately did not attend the foundation event in Morocco that Abedin had complained about; her husband and daughter did go. It is unclear if the king had given the $12 million he was said to have pledged; he is not listed among the foundation’s donors.
希拉里·克林顿的顾问们认为他们必须解决掉一些时不时就会出现的麻烦，而这些邮件让外界得以一窥这些麻烦的真面目。希拉里·克林顿最终没去参加遭到阿贝丁抱怨的那场基金会在摩洛哥举办的活动；不过她的丈夫和女儿去了。目前尚不清楚摩洛哥国王是否捐出了他承诺过的1200万美元善款；他目前不在基金会的捐赠者名单中。
Podesta took a leadership role at the charity when Bruce R. Lindsey, a former White House counsel and longtime friend of Bill Clinton who had been chief executive of the foundation, had a stroke in 2011.
2011年，身为比尔克·林顿老友的基金会时任首席执行官、白宫前法律顾问布鲁斯·R·林赛(Bruce R. Lindsey)中风后，波德斯塔曾在基金会担任领导角色。
His role at the foundation, coupled with his later capacity as the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign, put Podesta in the middle of internal workings of both operations and, by default, the delicate battles unfolding between Chelsea Clinton and her father’s top aides.
波德斯塔在基金会的职务，再加上他后来作为希拉里·克林顿竞选团队主席的身份，使得他深度介入了这两个组织的内部事务，进而自然而然地卷入了切尔西·克林顿与她父亲的高级助手之间的微妙角力。
The day Hillary Clinton’s mother, Dorothy Rodham, died in 2011, Chelsea Clinton emailed Podesta. “Doug called and yelled and screamed at my Dad about how could he do this,” she said, an apparent reference to the internal scrutiny going on at the foundation. “My mother is exhausted, we are all heartbroken but we need a strategy and my father needs advice/counsel.”
希拉里·克林顿的母亲多萝西·罗德姆(Dorothy Rodham)于2011年去世那天，切尔西·克林顿给波德斯塔发了邮件。“道格打来电话，对我父亲大喊大叫，问他怎么能这么做，”她说道，显然是指对基金会进行内部审查一事。“我母亲筋疲力尽，我们都感到心碎，但我们需要一个策略，我父亲需要建议与忠告。”
Band has said the exchange described in the email never happened.
班德称，邮件中所描绘的那次通话从未发生过。
Band, who helped Bill Clinton build the foundation, clearly felt irritated by Chelsea Clinton’s stream of implications that he had padded his own pockets from his work for her father.
帮助比尔·克林顿创办了这个基金会的班德显然对切尔西·克林顿感到恼火，因为后者不断暗示，班德借着为她父亲工作的便利充实了自己的腰包。
When Chelsea Clinton, using a pseudonym “Diane Reynolds,” that she also sometimes used to check into hotels, sent Band a complimentary email in January 2012, he forwarded it to Podesta and Mills.
切尔西·克林顿有时会使用“黛安·雷诺兹”(Diane Reynolds)这个化名入住酒店，当她在2012年1月使用这个名字给班德发去一封表扬邮件时，班德把邮件转给了波德斯塔和米尔斯。
“As they say, the apple doesn’t fall far,” he wrote. “A kiss on the cheek while she is sticking the knife in the back, and front.”
“就像人们常说的，苹果落地，离树不远，”他写道。“她一边送上一个甜枣儿，一边明里暗里地捅刀子。”