WASHINGTON — The Senate is expected to reject decisively a House bill passed over the weekend that would delay the full effect of President Obama’s health care law as a condition for keeping the government running past Monday, as Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader, expressed confidence that he had public opinion on his side.
华盛顿——据预计，参议院将断然拒绝众议院于周末通过的一个提案。该法案提出，如果要让政府在周一过后保持运转，前提是将奥巴马医疗改革法案的全面实施推迟一年。民主党多数派领袖、参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)表示，他相信公共舆论会站在自己一边。
Angering Republicans who lead the House, Mr. Reid kept the Senate shuttered on Sunday in a calculated move to delay action on the House measure until Monday afternoon, just hours before the government’s spending authority runs out at midnight.
让众议院共和党领导者颇为恼怒的是，里德于周日关闭了参议院，故意把对众议院策略采取的行动推迟到周一下午，届时距离政府开支权过期（将于午夜过期）仅剩几小时。
Without a complete capitulation by House Republicans, large sections of the government would close, hundreds of thousands of workers would be furloughed without pay, and millions more would be asked to work for no pay.
如果众议院共和党人不做出全面让步，大部分政府部门都将关门，数十万工作人员将在没有报酬的情况下放假回家，还有数百万人将被要求在没有薪水的情况下工作。
Polls show that the public is already deeply unhappy with its leaders in Congress, and the prospect of the first government shutdown in 17 years would be the latest dispiriting development. With a temporary shutdown appearing inevitable without a last-ditch compromise, the battle on Sunday became as much about blaming the other side as searching for a solution.
民意测验显示，公众早已对国会领导人深感不满；17年来第一次政府关门的前景将会是对公众信心的最新打击。如果双方都不在最后一刻做出让步，政府的暂时关门似乎在所难免；在周日的争战中，双方都是一边寻求解决方案，一边指责对方。
“Unlock those doors, I say to Harry Reid,” said Representative Ann Wagner, a Missouri Republican who stood on the steps of the empty Senate on Sunday with about a dozen of her House colleagues. “Come out and do your job.”
“我对哈里·里德说，打开门，”周日，密苏里共和党众议员安·瓦格纳(Ann Wagner)站在空荡荡的参议院的台阶上说，她身边还有十几名众议院同僚。“出来履行你的职责。”
But Mr. Reid sees little incentive or political advantage in bowing to those demands. He has managed to hold his 54-member caucus together so far. And because of support from some Senate Republicans who have called it a mistake for House Republicans to try to force changes to the health care law in an unrelated fight over the budget, Mr. Reid’s hand has been strengthened.
但里德认为，向这些要求低头既无必要，也不会有什么政治上的好处。迄今为止，他设法维持住了54名党派成员的团结。此外，一些参议院共和党人也对他表示支持，称众议院共和党人试图以不相关的预算斗争为契机来强行改变医疗法案的做法是个错误，这样一来，里德的立场就变得更加坚定。
Senator Susan Collins of Maine became the latest Republican to criticize her House colleagues, saying on Sunday that an effort to link the health care amendments to the budget was “a strategy that cannot possibly work.”
缅因州参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)是最近一位对其众议院同僚表示批判的共和党人。她周日称，把修改医疗法案与预算联系起来的做法是“一个绝不会起作用的策略”。
Mr. Reid’s plan, which exploits the bypasses and delays available to him in Senate procedure, leaves little time for the House to act before the Tuesday deadline. The Senate on Monday is expected to send back to the House a plain budget bill, stripped of its provisions to delay the full effect of the health care law, repeal a tax on medical devices and allow businesses to opt out of contraception coverage for their employees.
里德的计划利用了参议院程序中可以使用的迂回和推迟策略，这样一来，众议院在周二的最后期限之前基本没有采取行动的时间。周一，预计参议院将向众议院发回一个简单的预算案，删去众议院提出的全面推迟医改法实施、取消医疗设备税以及允许企业不为员工承担避孕费用的提议。
All Mr. Reid needs are 51 Democrats to vote with him — not the usual 60-vote threshold required for most Senate business — and the spending bill will go back to the House in a matter of minutes. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in charge of vote counting, said that he had been canvassing Senate Democrats from Republican states and that the party remained unified.
里德所需要的仅仅是51名民主党人投票支持他——不是大多数参议院议程所需要的60张票——拿到这些票数之后，支出法案将在几分钟内回到众议院。伊利诺伊州参议员、负责投票统计的民主党二号人物理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)说，他一直在游说来自共和党州的参议院民主党人，党内仍然保持着统一。
Senate Democrats plan to emphasize a message that the blame for any shutdown rests squarely with Republicans. “They can decide at that point whether they’ll shut down the government or not,” Mr. Durbin said.
参议院民主党人希望能突出这样一条讯息，即人们对政府关门的指责都会落到共和党头上。德宾说，“他们尽可以到时候再决定，是否关闭政府。”
Republicans would then face a difficult choice. Speaker John A. Boehner could risk the ire of his more conservative members and put the Senate bill on the floor for a straight up or down vote, a route that his more moderate members have begun urging him to take.
届时，共和党人会面临一个困难的选择。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)可以冒着惹怒比较保守的众议院成员的危险，让参议院的法案公开接受通过或否决的投票，较为温和的众议院成员已经开始敦促他这样做。
Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, said on Sunday that he was actively courting Republicans and Democrats to get behind a temporary spending bill to avert a shutdown, even if it contained none of the additional measures the House passed over the weekend.
周日，宾夕法尼亚州共和党众议员查利·登特(Charlie Dent)表示，他在积极促成共和党人和民主党人支持临时支出法案，避免政府停摆，即便该法案没有包含众议院上周末通过的那些附加措施。
“I’m prepared to vote for a clean resolution tomorrow,” Mr. Dent said. “It’s time to govern. I don’t intend to support a fool’s errand at this point.”
“我准备明天投票支持一个完美的决议，”登特说，“是时候做决定了。这时候，我不打算支持一个徒劳的方案。”
The Republican House leadership indicated on Sunday that it was planning to amend whatever the Senate sends back Monday — and quickly.
周日，众议院共和党领袖表示，无论参议院周一的反馈如何，他们都计划对其进行快速的修改。
“I think the House will get back together in enough time, send another provision not to shut the government down, but to fund it,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority whip. “And it will have a few other options in there for the Senate to look at again.”
“我认为众议院有足够的时间重新聚到一起，提出另一项旨在为政府提供资金而不是使政府停摆的法案，”加利福尼亚州众议员、众议院多数党督导凯文·麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)说，“其中会有一些其他选项，供参议院再次审查。”
Getting to that point would require agreement in an extremely short amount of time from a group of conservative Republicans who have often acted in discord with the rest of their conference. And it would require them to drop objections to defunding the health care law or delay the law’s full implementation for a year. People can begin signing up for insurance coverage under the law starting on Tuesday.
要达到上述目标，必须在极短的时间内获得一群保守派共和党人的同意，这些人经常与众议院其他成员的意见不一致。除此之外，还需要他们不再坚持下列举措，即取消对医改法的财政支持，或将医改法的全面实施延期一年。从周二开始，人们就可以根据这项法律登记纳入承保范围。
Representative Pat Tiberi, an Ohio Republican and close ally of Mr. Boehner, said House Republicans believed that they had already compromised by backing away from their demand that the health care law be defunded. Members of the large bloc of conservatives that often dictate the House agenda said they would not vote for any further government spending unless the health care law was gutted. The speaker talked them back this weekend to a one-year delay.
俄亥俄州共和党众议员、博纳的亲密盟友帕特·蒂贝里(Pat Tiberi)表示，众议院共和党人认为他们已经做出了让步，逐渐放弃了撤销对医改法的资金支持的要求。众议院的议程通常由保守派联盟决定，联盟成员曾表示，他们不会投票支持政府的任何进一步支出，除非取消医改法。经过本周末的劝说，众议院议长才使得他们做出让步，同意延期一年。
“Harry Reid likes to excoriate the Tea Party members of our conference for not compromising, when he’s doing the exact same thing,” Mr. Tiberi said.
蒂贝里说，“哈里·里德喜欢批评众议院的茶党(Tea Party)成员，说他们不肯妥协，而他现在也在做同样的事情。”
Complicating matters further, Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican who thrilled the conservative base last week with a 21-hour verbal assault on the health care law, has been urging House members to hold firm.
德克萨斯州共和党参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)使事情变得更加复杂。上周，他对医改法进行了21个小时的言论攻击，使得保守派联盟激动不已。克鲁兹一直敦促众议院成员保持坚定。
There are many Republicans who are convinced that the public would not automatically blame them for a shutdown, and they sought over the weekend to make the case that Mr. Obama and Mr. Reid were slowing the process to score political points. They seized on a pair of images they hoped would resonate with the public: Mr. Obama playing golf on Saturday, and Mr. Reid keeping the Senate dark until Monday.
很多共和党人确信，民众不会不假思索地将政府停摆归咎于他们。他们试图在上周末证明，拖延进程的是奥巴马和里德，目的是获得政治加分。他们捕捉到了两个画面，希望这些画面能在民众当中引起共鸣：奥巴马周六在打高尔夫球，而里德关闭了参议院，参议院到周一才恢复工作。
Mr. Boehner called Mr. Reid’s move “an act of breathtaking arrogance.”
博纳称，里德的举动是“一种极其傲慢的行为”。
The Capitol was quiet on Sunday. There was no legislative business going on in either chamber. The action was outside — on the morning talk shows, where leaders of both parties pointed fingers, and on the Senate steps, where Republicans gathered in a last-minute demonstration of their anger at Mr. Reid. Neither Mr. Boehner nor Mr. Reid made any public appearances.
周日，国会大楼非常安静。参议院与众议院都没有处理立法事务。行动都发生在大楼外面——比如早间谈话节目，两党领袖在节目中相互指责；以及在参议院的台阶上，共和党人聚集在那里进行最后一刻的抗议，表达对里德的不满。博纳和里德都没有公开露面。