KIEV, Ukraine — The bulletins started arriving from President Viktor F. Yanukovich’s news service at 6 a.m. Ukraine time on Wednesday — not with updates about the besieged public buildings or the occupation of Independence Square here by thousands of protesters — but with news of his visit to the Museum of Qin Terra Cotta Warriors and Horses in Xi’an, China.
乌克兰基辅——周三，乌克兰时间清晨6点，总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)的新闻办公室开始发布新闻——不是与公共建筑被围或数千抗议者占领独立广场(Independence Square)相关的最新消息，而是他在中国西安参观秦始皇兵马俑博物馆的新闻。
As widespread civic unrest continued for a fourth day with demonstrators clamoring for his resignation, Mr. Yanukovich proceeded with a long-planned state visit. He saw the collection of ancient artifacts, met with the government chairman in Shaanxi Province, toured a factory of the Chinese Aviation Industrial Corporation and flew on to Beijing for a business conference.
当大范围公民动乱进入第四天，抗议者要求亚努科维奇辞职的时候，亚努科维奇继续进行早已列入计划的一次国事访问。他观看了古文物收藏，会见了陕西省省长，参观了中国航空工业集团在当地的一家工厂，然后飞往北京参加商业会议。
In Kiev, the interior minister, Vitaly Zakharchenko, whom many here hold responsible for the violent and bloody crackdown on protesters by riot police early Saturday morning, issued a statement saying that he had given orders to the police banning “the use force against participants of peaceful gatherings that are taking place in the capital of Ukraine and other cities.”
在基辅，内务部长维塔利·扎哈尔琴科(Vitaliy Zakharchenko)发表声明称，他已经向警方下令，禁止“对乌克兰首都及其他城市的和平集会参与者使用武力”。周六清晨，防暴警察对抗议者进行了暴力血腥的镇压，许多乌克兰人都认为，扎哈尔琴科应对此事承担责任。
With Mr. Yanukovich largely ignoring their demands and the police standing down, protesters have encamped ever more deeply in Kiev City Hall and at least two other public buildings, and all across Independence Square. It seemed clear that the civic action that some are calling the “Euro Revolution” seemed to be shaping up as a contest of stamina and patience.
鉴于亚努科维奇基本上没有理会抗议者的要求，警方又逐渐解除戒备，抗议者已经在基辅市政厅、至少其他两座公共建筑以及整个独立广场安营扎寨，姿态比之前还要坚定。形势似乎十分明显，被一些人称为“欧元革命”(Euro Revolution)的这次公民行动似乎正在发展成一场毅力与耐心的较量。
“It’s a war of attrition,” said Yuri Levchenko, an official with the nationalist Svoboda Party. “Whoever gives up first,” he said, “loses.”
来自民族主义党派斯沃博达党(Svoboda)的官员尤里·列夫琴科(Yuri Levchenko)表示，“这是一场消耗战，”他还说，“谁先放弃，谁就输了。”
There were increasing signs that Mr. Yanukovich’s decision not to sign political and free trade accords with the European Union, under pressure from Russia, had put him in a politically untenable situation. It has undoubtedly raised sharp risks for his country, which faces a severe economic crisis and is in desperate need of a financial aid package of $17 billion or more.
越来越多的迹象表明，亚努科维奇迫于俄罗斯的压力做出的决定——不与欧盟(European Union)签署政治及自由贸易协议——已经使他陷入政治上难以为继的困境。毫无疑问，这个决定给他的国家造成了显而易见的风险，因为他的国家正面临严重的经济危机，急需170亿欧元以上的一揽子财政援助。
Ukrainian officials had been in discussions with the International Monetary Fund over an aid package, but ultimately said they were unwilling to carry out the painful austerity measures and other changes that had been set as conditions for help.
乌克兰官员曾与国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)讨论援助计划问题，最终却表示他们不愿实施痛苦的紧缩政策，也不愿进行其他被列为援助条件的改变。
At some point, they may have no choice. The Ukrainian Central Bank was forced to intervene in currency markets on Wednesday to prop up the hryvnia.
到了某个时候，他们可能会别无选择。周三，乌克兰中央银行(Ukrainian Central Bank)被迫干预外汇市场，保持乌克兰货币格里夫尼亚的汇率。
Meanwhile, Ukrainian officials have been looking to Russia and China as alternate sources of financing. Both countries have helped Ukraine in the past, but as the financial situation worsens it is not clear whether additional assistance will be forthcoming.
同时，乌克兰官员一直都把俄罗斯和中国当做欧盟之外的资金来源。这两个国家过去都曾帮助乌克兰，但随着乌克兰财政状况的恶化，目前尚不清楚，这两个国家会不会提供额外的援助。
A deputy prime minister of Ukraine, Yuri Boiko, traveled to Moscow on Wednesday, where he met with Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev and a deputy prime minister, Igor Shuvalov. Russia has shown no tolerance for the sort of civil disobedience playing out in Kiev and Mr. Medvedev warned Mr. Boiko of the Kremlin’s aversion to instability.
周三，乌克兰副总理尤里·博伊科(Yuri Boiko)前往莫斯科会见了俄罗斯总理德米特里·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A.Medvedev)和副总理伊戈尔·舒瓦洛夫(Igor Shuvalov)。俄罗斯一向不能容忍与基辅目前状况相类的平民抗议，梅德韦杰夫还提醒博伊科，克里姆林宫对这种动乱十分反感。
“You are having quite an active political season now,” Mr. Medvedev said, according to the Interfax news service. “Certainly, we are closely following what is going on in your country, but, undeniably, this is Ukraine’s internal affair. Although, certainly, it is very important to maintain stability and order in the country.”
“贵国当前的政治气候十分活跃，”据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，梅德韦杰夫说。“当然，我们正在密切关注贵国的情况。不过，不可否认的是，这是乌克兰的内部事务。话说回来，当然，保持乌克兰的稳定和秩序非常重要。”
Western leaders, in recent days, have issued their own demands, warning Ukraine that relations would suffer badly if there was a repeat of the bloodshed Saturday when riot police violently dispersed some protesters.
近日，西方领导人也提出了自己的要求。他们警告乌克兰，如果周六那种防暴警察用暴力驱散抗议者的血腥事件再度发生，西方与乌克兰的关系就可能遭受重创。
The statement by Mr. Zakharchenko, promising no further use of force, came amid intensified international criticism, from Western governments and human rights groups, over Saturday’s events, and as Kiev prepared to welcome a large group of foreign ministers for a meeting of the ministerial council of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
扎哈尔琴科在声明中承诺不再使用武力，这样做是迫于国际社会越来越严厉的指责，西方政府和人权组织都对周六发生的事情表示了不满。同时，基辅还在准备迎接各国外长前来参加欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation)的部长会议。
Even before the outbreak of unrest, Secretary of State John Kerry had announced that he was canceling his plans to attend the conference, in part to send a signal over Mr. Yanukovich’s last-minute decision to back away from the agreements with the European Union. Mr. Kerry went instead to Moldova, which has signed a preliminary version of the accords.
早在动乱爆发之前，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)就已宣布他打算取消参会计划，部分是因为他想发出讯号，抗议亚努科维奇不与欧盟签约的临阵反悔之举。后来，克里去了已经签署初步协议的摩尔多瓦。
The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, arrived in Kiev on Wednesday and met with opposition leaders in Independence Square, where they have established a tent city and a stage featuring a virtually round-the-clock parade of speeches and musical performances.
周三，德国外长吉多·韦斯特韦勒(Guido Westerwelle)抵达基辅，与独立广场上的反对派领袖进行了会晤。反对派在广场上搭建了帐篷和舞台，舞台上整天都有人在进行演讲和音乐表演。
“It is clear that Ukraine is in the midst of huge internal discussions,” Mr. Westerwelle said in a statement released by the German government. “Here Europe must be active, because it is about Europe.”
“显而易见，乌克兰正在进行一场规模巨大的内部讨论，”韦斯特韦勒在由德国政府发布的一份声明中说，“在这个问题上，欧洲必须积极应对，因为这也与欧洲有关。”
Demonstrators continued to occupy City Hall and the Trade Unions building, and had also taken over the International Center for Culture and Art, where hundreds of protesters were sleeping in the corridors and volunteers were serving smoked fish sandwiches.
抗议者仍占领着市政厅和工会大楼，并且占领了国际文化艺术中心(International Center for Culture and Art)，数百名抗议者睡在中心的走廊里，还有志愿者在供应熏鱼三明治。
The nearby Cabinet Ministry building was still surrounded, in a bid to paralyze the government and protesters also sought to block the entrances of the Central Bank next door.
附近的内阁总部(Cabinet Ministry)仍被抗议者包围，他们这样做是为了使政府陷入瘫痪。此外，抗议者还试图封锁总部隔壁中央银行(Central Bank)的入口。