SANTA BARBARA, Calif. — The choice sounded ingenious: Take a high-profile political figure — a former governor and cabinet member — and have her apply her acumen to the task of rebuilding one of the great public university systems ravaged by decades of eroding state support.
加州圣芭芭拉——这听起来是个明智的决定，让一位高调的政治人物——前任州长以及内阁成员，动用她的聪明才干来接受一项使命，重建一个因州政府支持越来越少而遭受严重破坏的顶尖的公立大学系统。
So when Janet Napolitano, the former secretary of homeland security and governor of Arizona, was named president of the University of California last summer, expectations soared.
珍妮特·纳波利塔诺(Janet Napolitano)担任过国土安全部部长和亚利桑那州州长。当她在去年夏天被任命为加州大学(University of California)校长的时候，公众有着许多的期待。
But her political skill was confronted almost immediately by a liability on campuses filled with foreign-born students, hundreds of whom lack legal immigration status — her role in the Obama administration’s deportation of 1.9 million unauthorized immigrants.
但她的政治技巧几乎立即遭遇了校园“欠债”的考验。校园里有许多非本国出生的学生，其中有数百名不具有合法的移民身份，而纳波利塔诺却曾在奥巴马政府驱逐190万非法移民一事中扮演了重要角色。
Now Ms. Napolitano faces a dual task of reviving the University of California and simultaneously overcoming the deep distrust of her within some quarters of the system.
纳波利塔诺现在面临着双重考验，在重振加州大学的同时，还要克服学校里一些人对她的极度不信任。
So she has relied on a time-tested political strategy: the listening tour. Ms. Napolitano has spent days at each of the 10 campuses, attending lectures, touring labs and holding meetings with students, faculty members and staff members. Any one of them can easily rattle off the problems caused by state budget cuts: tuition that has more than doubled, star faculty members who left for higher-paying private universities where their research would be fully funded, and academic counselors crushed by increasing caseloads.
所以她依靠了一项屡试不爽的政治策略：聆听之旅。纳波利塔诺花时间走访了全部十个校区，去听课、参观实验室、组织与学生、教学人员以及学校职工的会议。他们中的任何一个都可以轻而易举地罗列出一长串州政府削减预算造成的问题：学费涨了不止一倍，杰出的教学人员去了薪水更高、并能完全负担他们研究项目的私立大学，学术顾问也因越来越大的工作量而不堪重负。
But at nearly every stop along the tour she has also been confronted by protesters whose fury is not about the budget. As she walked into the faculty club at the University of California, Santa Barbara, one recent evening, for example, the polite chatter welcoming her fought a din of “Napolitano has got to go.” When Chancellor Henry T. Yang walked over to the students mounting the objection, they asked: “How can you support her? She’s hurt our families.”
但在她所到之处的几乎每一站，她也遭遇了示威者的挑战。他们的愤怒与预算无关。比如，当她在最近的一个傍晚走进加州大学圣巴巴拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)的教职工俱乐部时，一边有人说着彬彬有礼的欢迎之词，一边却是嚷嚷着“纳波利塔诺必须离开”的喧哗声。当校长杨祖佑(Henry T. Yang)走向高声发出反对意见的学生时，他们质问他：“你怎么能支持她呢？她伤害过我们的家人。”
When Ms. Napolitano appeared on a panel about Latinas in education that was sponsored by Eva Longoria, the Mexican-American actress with a master’s degree in Chicano studies, the ushers’ directions to the arriving audience were drowned out by shouts of “Education, not deportation!”
当纳波利塔诺出席一个关于拉丁裔教育的讨论会时，引座员指向的声音被“要教育，不要遣返！”的喊声淹没。这个讨论会由墨西哥裔美国演员伊娃·朗格里亚(Eva Longoria)赞助，她有着墨西哥裔美国人研究专业的硕士学位。
“What this reveals is a law that doesn’t match our moral standards, and that weight is falling on these students,” Ms. Napolitano said after another student protester interrupted her at the panel. As she tells her critics, she has always argued that enforcement of existing laws is the only way to get lawmakers to back a comprehensive immigration overhaul.
“这揭示出一部与我们道德标准不符的法律，而这种压力落在了这些学生的头上，”纳波利塔诺在讨论会上又一次被抗议学生打断后说。她告诉反对者们，她一直认为，切实执行现行法律是让立法者支持全面移民改革的唯一途径。
In one of her first policy changes this fall, Ms. Napolitano announced that she would set aside $5 million to assist the roughly 1,000 undocumented students in the system, spread across the campuses. The money is a tiny fraction of the $25 billion overall budget, but it won praise from Latino leaders and campus activists, who will decide whether to use the money for specialized counseling centers or direct scholarships.
在她上任之后的秋天，纳波利塔诺首先宣布的其中一项政策改革就是提供500万美元（约合3000万人民币），资助学校里没有合法身份的学生。得到资助的学生大约有1000名，分布在各个校区。虽然这些钱只是250亿美元整体预算的一小部分，但此举得到了拉丁裔领袖和校园积极分子的赞赏。他们将决定是把这笔钱用作专项咨询中心，或是直接用作奖学金。
“The legacy of deportations is going to be with her for a long time to come, and it is something that she is going to have to live with,” said Antonia Hernandez, the president of the California Community Foundation and a former chairwoman of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, who spoke with Ms. Napolitano at the University of California, Los Angeles. “She is acknowledging that diversity is a weakness that the system needs to address. If it is only educating the wealthy upper class, there is not going to be a lot of will to put money into that kind of public institution.”
“驱逐出境行动对她的影响将是长远的，她只能适应这种存在，”安东尼亚·埃尔南德斯(Antonia Hernandez)说。她是加州社区基金会(California Community Foundation)会长，同时也是墨西哥裔美国人正当防卫与教育基金组织(Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund)的主席。她在加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)与纳波利塔诺有过交流。“她正在意识到，多元化是这一系统需要解决的薄弱环节。如果只是为了教育富有的上流社会，那么将经费投入那种公立学校的意愿则不会很强。”
Complaints about deportations are just the beginning of Ms. Napolitano’s challenges. For years, the state has put less and less money into the university system, reducing the state’s contribution to levels not seen since the Great Depression — forcing the system to increasingly rely on tuition, government research grants and private dollars, even as it reduced the number of courses offered and cut back on library hours. In many ways, Ms. Napolitano’s primary job is convincing people who will never set foot on a University of California campus that the system deserves their tax dollars.
对于驱逐出境的不满仅仅是纳波利塔诺面临的各种挑战的一个开始。州政府多年来向这个大学系统的投入逐渐减少，如今政府的投入水平更是大萧条(Great Depression)之后的历史最低点。在已经减少提供的课程数量并缩减图书馆开放时间的情况下，学校还是被迫从更大程度上依靠学费、政府科研项目补助金和私人捐款作为经济来源。从很多方面来说，纳波利塔诺现在的首要任务就是让那些永远不会踏足加州大学校园的纳税人相信，加州大学值得他们的税款。
Even as she continues to court the public, Ms. Napolitano’s most pressing long-term task is to convince the governor and state legislators that the system both needs and deserves more money to regain its luster.
在她继续向公众示好的同时，纳波利塔诺面临的最紧迫的长远任务是：说服州长及议员，加州大学需要、也应该得到更多经费来重振旗鼓。
“We need to make it clear that when we ask for something we’re not just going with our hand out to be a supplicant, but we’re saying this is an investment and here are all the many ways we are going to give you a return on that investment,” Ms. Napolitano said in a recent interview. “The days of just getting money are over. We have to be a place — and we are — that the state can turn to help solve its problems.”
“我们需要表明，当我们有所求时，并不是只是伸手提要求的乞讨者，我们是在告诉他们，这是一项投资，我们将以多种方式对这样的投资做出回报，”纳波利塔诺在近期的一次采访中说。“那些只拿钱的日子结束了。我们需要成为——并且我们也是——一个在加州需要的时候可以帮助解决问题的地方。”
To bolster her case, Ms. Napolitano is encouraging more work on sustainable energy, convinced that researchers across the system can help the state cut down on fuel costs and the system’s environmental impact. She is explaining how medical research affects patients all over the world. And she is constantly explaining the way the state’s economic success depends on the university.
为了支持她的观点，纳波利塔诺鼓励在可持续能源方面开展更多工作。她相信加州大学系统内的研究人员可以帮助州政府节约燃料支出，还可以减少系统对环境的影响。她正在努力阐释，医学研究如何影响着遍及全世界的患者。她也在不断地说明，加州经济是如何依靠加州大学而取得成功的。
With the need for more money, the university system has increasingly relied on out-of-state and foreign students, who pay a far higher tuition rate. While such students still make up less than 10 percent of the overall enrollment, the reliance has fueled the widespread notion that local high school students are being squeezed out of the system. And many state and university leaders fret that Latinos continue to lag behind the numbers of whites and Asians enrolling in the system.
由于需要更多的经费，加州大学越来越依靠外州以及国际学生所交纳的高昂学费来支撑。虽然这些学生占总体学生数量还不到10%，但这种经济上的依赖还是让更多人开始相信，本地高中生正在被挤出这一系统。系统中拉丁裔学生的入学人数继续落后于白人及亚洲人，让许多州及学校领导颇为烦恼。