King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, one of the longest-reigning monarchs in history, died Thursday at age 88. His death, and the transition of power, could become a turning point for a country ruled by a military junta and long divided by rival political factions.
泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)周四去世，享年88岁。作为史上在位时间最长的君主之一，他的离世和随之而来的权力继承，可能会成为处在军政府统治下并因政治派系斗争而长期存在分歧的泰国的一个转折点。
What power did the king have?
国王有哪些权力？
As head of state and the military, King Bhumibol endorsed the appointment of high-ranking government and military officials. The military government that has ruled the country since taking power in a coup two years ago claimed legitimacy from the king’s endorsement. The king was a symbol of national unity and viewed with great affection by the people of Thailand. His portrait hangs from buildings, in schools and along highways across the country.
作为国家元首和军队统帅，普密蓬国王批准了政府和军队高层官员的任命。自两年前在一场政变中夺权后便开始统治泰国的军政府，因获得了国王的认可而获得了合法性。国王是国家团结统一的象征，泰国民众对他怀有深厚的感情。泰国各地的大楼外、学校里和公路旁都悬挂着他的画像。
Who succeeds him?
他的继任者是谁？
Maha Vajiralongkorn, 64, was appointed by King Bhumibol as the crown prince in 1972. The king’s only son, Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn is seen by many as a playboy living a jet-setter lifestyle in Europe. That reputation has prompted speculation that the 2014 coup may have been an attempt by the military to tighten its grip on the government before his ascension and ensure a smooth transition.
1972年，现年64岁的玛哈·哇集拉隆功(Maha Vajiralongkorn)被普密蓬国王封为王储。作为普密蓬国王唯一的儿子，王太子哇集拉隆功被很多人认为是一个花花公子，在欧洲过着乘坐飞机四处游玩的生活。这样的名声促使一些人推测，2014年那场政变或许是军方为了在他上位前加强对政府的控制，并确保权力平稳过渡而发动的。
Where does the military stand?
军方的立场是什么？
In 2014, the junta overthrew the elected government for the second time in a decade and suspended most of the Constitution. Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha was installed as the prime minister and chief of the junta, a move that the king blessed. The coup was seen as a victory for the political elite and a defeat for a rising populist movement.
在2014年，军方十年里第二次推翻民选政府，并废除了宪法中的大部分内容。巴育·占奥差将军(Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha)被任命为总理和军政府首脑。这一举动得到了普密蓬国王的认可。那场政变被认为是政治精英的胜利、日渐崛起的民粹主义运动的失败。
In August, voters backed a new Constitution, written by the military, that reduces the power of political parties and gives the military the authority to appoint members of the Senate. The junta restricted political assemblies and criticism of the referendum in the months leading up to the vote. As many as 120 people were jailed by the ruling generals.
今年8月，选民支持军方制定的一部新宪法。新宪法削弱了政党的权力，规定军方有权任命参议员。在投票表决前的几个月里，军政府限制政治集会和对公投的批评。多达120人被掌权的将领关押。
What happens next?
接下来会发生什么？
Past deaths of members of the royal family have included a period in which the body has lain in state and 100 days of mourning, followed by a six-day ceremony. But whether that happens this time and what other plans there may be are unknown, in large part because of the country’s strict lèse-majesté law, which makes it a crime to insult members of the royal family but in practice makes it difficult to even talk about them.
过去，王室成员的丧葬事宜包括一个遗体陈列期和100天的哀悼期，之后是持续六天的葬礼。但尚不清楚这一次是否会遵循惯例，以及是否会有其他计划。这在很大程度上是因为该国严厉的冒犯君主法。该法规定侮辱王室成员属于犯罪，但在实践中，因为该法，连谈论王室成员都变得很难。
There have been no official statements about preparations or succession planning, but General Prayuth, the prime minister, told reporters on Thursday that the crown prince had expressed a desire not to be proclaimed king right away, preferring “to take some time to mourn, together with the people of Thailand” before ascending to the throne.
官方尚未公布准备工作或继任计划，但总理巴育将军周四对记者表示，王太子表达了不想马上被宣布为国王的愿望，他希望“同泰国民众一起哀悼一段时间”后再继位。