BANGKOK — Concern for the health of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand on Wednesday prompted the country’s prime minister to return abruptly to Bangkok, caused Thai stocks to fall sharply and sent well-wishers to the hospital where the 88-year-old king was being treated.
曼谷——周三，出于对国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)的健康状况的担忧，泰国总理突然返回曼谷，导致泰国股市大跌，并引得民众纷纷前往这位88岁高龄的国王正在接受治疗的医院表示祝愿。
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, chief of the junta that runs the country, canceled a trip outside Bangkok, the capital, a government spokesman said, and returned to meet with Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, the heir to the throne, who lives most of the time in Germany.
政府发言人称，统治该国的军政府领导人巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)总理取消了在外地的视察，返回首都曼谷与王位继承人王太子哇集拉隆功(Vajiralongkorn)会面。哇集拉隆功大部分时候生活在德国。
The country, which has been under military rule since 2014, is deeply polarized, but Bhumibol has been a unifying figure, even in ill health. The military’s authority derives from the king, and there is a sense of national anxiety about his condition and what will happen when he dies.
自2014年以来一直处在军政府统治下的泰国两极分化严重，但普密蓬一直深受各方认可，尽管他健康状况欠佳。军方的权力是国王授予的，全泰国都对国王的健康状况和他去世后会发生什么感到焦虑。
All of the king’s children — the prince and his three sisters — were reported to have arrived on Wednesday at Siriraj Hospital, where Bhumibol, one of the world’s longest reigning monarchs, has been confined for most of the past few years. He last left the hospital in January.
据报道，周三当天，国王的所有子女——王太子和他的三个姐妹——均来到普密蓬所在的诗里拉吉医院(Siriraj Hospital)。过去几年里，作为世界上在位时间最长的君主之一，普密蓬大部分时间都住在该医院。他上一次出院是在今年一月。
The royal palace announced on Sunday that the king, a widely revered figure who suffers from kidney failure and receives hemodialysis to filter his blood, was in unstable condition and that he was breathing with the help of a ventilator.
王宫在周日宣布，国王病情不稳，需在呼吸机的帮助下呼吸。广受爱戴的普密蓬患有肾衰竭，在通过透析进行血液过滤。
In a health bulletin issued Wednesday evening, the palace said that he remained on the ventilator and was in unstable condition.
在周三傍晚发布的健康状况报告中，王宫称国王仍戴着呼吸机，情况不稳定。
“The king is a father of the entire Thai people,” said Suwanna Kaennamtiew, 62, of Bangkok, who came to the hospital to pray for him. “We are living under his virtue. We love him very much. Nothing can compare to him.”
“国王是全体泰国人的父亲，”62岁的曼谷居民索王那·凯那姆刁(Suwanna Kaennamtiew)来医院为国王祈祷的说。“我们沐浴在他的美德下。我们很爱他。没什么能和他相提并论。”
Most Thais have known no monarch other than Bhumibol, who ascended the throne in 1946, and have never lived through a succession.
大部分泰国人只认识1946年登上王位的普密蓬，从未经历过王位交接。
Rumors began circulating around noon that he was near death. The Stock Exchange of Thailand fell 6.9 percent, although it recovered to close down about 2.5 percent. The Thai currency, the baht, fell about 1 percent against the dollar.
正午时分开始出现传言说他已经到了弥留之际。泰国股票交易所指数下跌6.9%，不过后来又有所回升，最终以大约2.5%的跌幅报收。泰国货币泰铢兑美元贬值约1%。