PARIS -- Fatou Bensouda, chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, said on Wednesday that her office had received ample reports of “crimes of unspeakable cruelty” by the extremists of the Islamic State but that the court had no jurisdiction over Iraq and Syria where the acts occurred or over the group’s leaders.
巴黎——国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)首席检察官法图·本索达(Fatou Bensouda)周三表示，她的办公室收到了大量关于伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）极端分子“无法形容的残忍罪行”的报告，但是法庭对这些行为的发生地伊拉克和叙利亚，以及该组织的领导人没有管辖权。
In a written statement, Ms. Bensouda said that a change in jurisdiction would have to come from decisions outside the court: the United Nations Security Council could ask the court to begin an investigation. Another option, she said, would be for Iraq or Syria, neither of which is a member of the court, to accept the court’s jurisdiction on a temporary basis. But she clearly did not expect this to happen soon.
本索达在一份书面声明中称，管辖权的改变还需要法院之外的决定：联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)可以要求法院展开调查。她说另一个选择是，不是法院成员的伊拉克或叙利亚临时接受法院管辖。但是，她明显不认为这种情况会很快发生。
Her remarks appeared to be a response to the growing pressure on her office to open an investigation into human rights abuses in territory controlled by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Politicians, human rights groups and editorial writers have been calling for action by the international prosecutor, whose limitations and powers are not always well understood.
她的办公室面临着越来越大的压力，需要对伊斯兰国控制的领土展开侵犯人权调查，她的言论似乎是为了回应这种压力。政界人士、人权组织和社论作者一直在呼吁这位国际检察官采取行动，而她的局限性和权力却不总是能得到很好的理解。
Ms. Bensouda said she had decided to clarify the court’s remit after receiving numerous inquiries about whether she could take action in response to atrocities committed by ISIS fighters.
本索达说，由于频频有人询问她是否能采取行动，对ISIS武装人员所犯下的暴行做出回应，她决定阐明法院的职权范围。
The prosecutor said that her office had looked into several avenues to investigate crimes by ISIS, including pursuing fighters from countries who were court members. “Several thousand foreign fighters have joined the ranks of ISIS in the past months alone,” she said, including citizens of Australia, Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Jordan, the Netherlands and Tunisia.
本索达表示，她的办公室曾试图通过几种途径，对ISIS的罪行进行调查，其中包括追捕来自法院成员国的武装人员。“仅过去几个月，就有数千名外国战士加入了ISIS的队伍，”她说，其中包括澳大利亚、比利时、英国、法国、德国、约旦、荷兰和突尼斯的公民。
But most of the foreign volunteers are believed to be low-ranking participants in the conflict. Prosecutors say that they could be investigated in courts in their home countries but would not be likely candidates for cases for the international court, whose mandate is to focus on people most responsible for war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide.
不过，多数外国志愿者据信在冲突中只扮演次要角色。检方称，他们可能会在本国法院接受调查，但不太可能成为国际法院案件中的调查对象。国际法院针对的是战争罪、反人类罪或种族屠杀的最主要责任人。
“ISIS is a military and political organization primarily led by nationals of Iraq and Syria,” Ms. Bensouda said. “Thus, at this stage, the prospects of my office investigating and prosecuting those most responsible within the leadership of ISIS, appear limited.”
“ISIS是一个主要由伊拉克和叙利亚人领导的军事和政治组织，”本苏达说。“因此，在现阶段，我所在的机构调查和起诉ISIS领导层的主要责任人的可能性似乎有限。”
But some experts argue that there is more leeway to get around the territorial jurisdiction. William Schabas, who teaches international law at Middlesex University in Britain, said there was no rule that said that an organization could not be referred to the court, even if it operated in countries that were not members.
不过，一些专家称，避开地域管辖限制的余地仍然存在。在英国米德尔塞克斯大学(Middlesex University)教授国际法的威廉·沙巴斯(William Schabas)说，不存在禁止向国际法庭起诉一家机构的规定，哪怕是在几个非成员国家内运作的机构。
France and Switzerland have said in recent days that they will try again in the United Nations Security Council to refer the actions of extremist groups in Syria to the international court, this time with a different focus and including allegations of genocide of minority groups. Last year, France’s initiative to investigate the war in Syria was vetoed by Russia and China.
法国和瑞士近日表示，他们将再次尝试在联合国安理会把叙利亚极端组织的行为提交国际法院，这一次将改变重心，增加对屠杀少数族群的指控。去年，法国提出的调查叙利亚战争的提议被俄罗斯和中国否决。