International buyers are known for spending big money in New York, be it the woman from China who spent more than $6 million on a home for her toddler at the skyscraper One57, or the daughter of Dmitry Rybolovlev, the Russian potash magnate, who used a trust to pay $88 million for an apartment at 15 Central Park West.
国际买家在纽约素有一掷千金的名声：中国有位母亲花600多万美元（约合人民币3649万元）为自己还在学走路的孩子在摩天大厦One57里买了一套房；或是俄罗斯的钾肥巨头德米特里·雷波诺列夫(Dmitry Rybolovlev)的女儿用信托基金支付8800万美元（约合人民币5.4亿元），买下了中央公园西路15号的一套公寓。
But what of wealthy New York buyers who might set their sights elsewhere? As luxury real estate surges globally, developers with projects in cities around the world are increasingly turning their marketing dollars toward New York.
不过，纽约本地富豪也可能将目光放在别处，他们的表现如何呢？随着豪华房产在全球升温，一些在世界各大城市拥有建设项目的开发商越来越重视纽约的客户，他们将越来越多的营销推广资金投向了纽约。
“We have put our aims on New York because this is where a lot of potential buyers are,” said Yigal Zemah, the founder of Berggruen Residential, which is building a 42-story condominium in Tel Aviv. Designed by the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Richard Meier, the project, called Meier-on-Rothschild, is one of the country’s most expensive, offering a 15,000-square-foot penthouse priced at nearly $50 million.
“我们把目标市场锁定在纽约，因为这里有许多潜在买家。”住宅开发公司Berggruen Residential的创始人伊戈尔·泽马(Yigal Zemah)表示。此开发公司目前正在特拉维夫市(Tel Aviv)修建一栋42层的共管公寓。公寓设计师是普利兹克建筑奖(Pritzker)得主、建筑师理查德·迈耶(Richard Meier)。该项目名为Meier-on-Rothschild，是以色列最昂贵的住宅之一，一套顶层公寓的面积达15000平方英尺（约合1394平方米），售价近5000万美元（约合人民币3亿元）。
A number of builders are following Mr. Zemah’s lead and marketing their projects in New York. So far this year, 13 offering plans have been filed in New York for projects being built outside of the state, according to the New York State Attorney General. That is more than double the six projects filed last year, although far below the 46 offering plans filed here in 2007 during the peak of the real estate bubble.
不少建筑商也纷纷效法泽马，在纽约推广他们的项目。纽约州司法部长表示，今年到目前为止，已有13份州外建设项目的公寓产品说明书在纽约提交。这比去年的6份增加了一倍多；只不过，和2007年楼市泡沫达到最高峰时的46份还远无法相比。
“There has been a definite increase, yes,” said Stuart M. Saft, a chairman of the global condominium development practice at the law firm Holland & Knight. “In the last two years, we have done as many New York offering plans for out-of-state offerings as we did in the previous five years.”
“建设项目的确有一定增长，”Holland & Knight律师事务所负责全球公寓开发法律事务的斯图尔特·M·萨福特(Stuart M. Saft)表示，“从我们经手的业务看，这两年在纽约提交的州外公寓产品说明书在数量上达到了过去五年的总和。”
This is being helped along by the rising prices in New York’s ultraluxury market. Developers selling multimillion-dollar homes have tended to concentrate on the big money in areas such as China, Russia and the Middle East. But as condominium prices in New York approach the $100 million mark — catching up with cities like London — New Yorkers begin to look like prime candidates.
随着纽约超豪华房产市场的价格走高，这一趋势得以进一步加剧。以往，开发商如果销售的是百万美元价位的房产，他们一般会把巨额的营销资金投在中国、俄罗斯及中东等地。但随着纽约的共管公寓价格接近1亿美元（约合人民币6.1亿元）大关，开始赶上伦敦等城市的水平，纽约人似乎也开始成为他们的首要目标客户了。
“Global developers are not scared of New York,” said Royce Pinkwater,  a broker who specializes in superluxury projects in New York and globally, and the chief executive of the firm Pinkwater Select. “New Yorkers are not only among the most global residents in the world, but the increase of wealth here has made it very attractive.”
“国际开发商并不害怕进军纽约，”罗伊斯·平克华特(Royce Pinkwater)表示。平克华特专业从事纽约乃至全球各地的超豪华建设项目，是Pinkwater Select公司的首席执行官。“纽约人不仅是世界上最为国际化的居民群体之一，而且当地财富的增长也使这里变得独具魅力。”
Among the projects drawing the attention of New Yorkers: 5 Princes Gate in London, a small luxury building developed by Mike Spink; and 18 Nouvel, two 36-story towers in Singapore designed by Jean Nouvel, also a Pritzker Prize-winning architect. Many of the developments being marketed to New Yorkers are in vacation areas like Florida and the Caribbean. For example, the developer of Oil Nut Bay, a community of vacation houses in the British Virgin Islands where prices range from $3 million to as much as $50 million, has been actively courting New Yorkers.
吸引纽约人注意力的开发项目包括：伦敦的“普林斯盖特5号”(5 Princes Gate)，这是由麦克·斯宾克(Mike Spink)开发的一座小型豪华建筑；“努维尔18号”(Nouvel 18)是位于新加坡的两栋36层大厦，设计师让·努维尔(Jean Nouvel)也是普利兹克奖得主；还有许多面向纽约人销售的开发项目，地处佛罗里达、加勒比海等度假胜地，Oil Nut Bay就是一个例子。它是一个度假屋小区，位于英属维尔京群岛(British Virgin Islands) ，房价从300万美元（约合人民币1825万元）到5000万美元（约合人民币3亿元）不等。目前，开发商正极力招徕纽约客户。
“New York kind of dropped off the radar for a few years after the collapse of the financial sector,” said David V. Johnson, the founder of the Victor International Corporation, the developer of Oil Nut Bay. “But it is certainly back now.” The company has hired a New York public relations agency and is holding parties to advertise the project, most recently at the exclusive Metropolitan Club. “Marketing to New York is a heavy focus of ours,” he said.
“自从金融行业崩溃之后，纽约几乎从开发商的视野中消失了几年，”Oil Nut Bay的开发商Victor International Corporation公司的创始人戴维·V·约翰逊(David V. Johnson)表示，“现在，它肯定重新回到人们视野中了。”Victor International Corporation已在纽约聘请了一家公关机构，并正在筹办派对来宣传建设项目。最近一次派对的举办地是在高档奢华的大都会俱乐部(Metropolitan Club)。“向纽约人展开推广攻势是我们工作的重中之重。”他说。
In Miami, the Argentine developer Consultatio is building the Oceana Bal Harbour, a 240-unit luxury condominium adorned by two large Jeff Koons sculptures. Sales began two weeks ago, and so far about 10 percent of buyers are from the New York area, said Ernesto Cohan, the director of sales. “New York is going to be an important piece of the equation for us,” he predicted.
在迈阿密，阿根廷开发商Consultatio正在建设Oceana Bal Harbour，这是一座包含240套单元的共管式公寓楼，饰有杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)的两座大型雕塑。销售总监厄内斯托·科汉(Ernesto Cohan)表示，这处楼盘已于两周前开始发售，目前约有10%的买家来自纽约地区。“纽约将成为我们的一个重要市场。”他预测道。
But although increasing numbers of developers want to woo the New York market, the process is arduous and costly. New York is the only state in the nation that requires developers to file offering plans with the state attorney general if they want to sell co-ops and condominiums to its residents, even if the projects are elsewhere. Even to market the project in New York but not officially sell it, developers are required to file certain documents.
不过，尽管越来越多的开发商想要讨好纽约客户，要真做到这一点，其过程不仅艰巨，而且代价高昂。纽约是全美国唯一一个要求开发商向州司法部长提交公寓产品说明书的州，就算开发项目是外地的也不例外。只要开发商想要向纽约居民销售合作公寓或共管公寓，就必须遵守这一规定。开发商就算只是想在当地推广项目，并不开展真正意义上的销售业务，也必须提交特定的文件。
On top of this, the offering plans required by the New York attorney general are far more extensive than in many other parts of the country. They typically run 400 pages and require comprehensive disclosures — for instance, certifications from architects and projected expenses for the first year of operation, with detailed footnotes containing the basis for those numbers. “It is very, very complicated,” Mr. Saft said. “The regulations themselves run in the hundreds of pages.”
不仅如此，纽约州司法部长对公寓产品说明书的要求，也比美国国内其他地方要高得多。说明书一般要达到40页的篇幅，而且要披露全面细致的内容——比如建筑师的资质证明、第一年运营的预计开支，开支数字的旁边还要加上脚注，说明其计算依据。“这些要求非常、非常的复杂，”萨福特说，“相关法规本身就有几百来页。”
The requirements date back to the Martin Act of 1921, which came into being to protect New York buyers from charlatan developers advertising vacation homes in states like Florida, “only for the buyers to turn up and find out they had bought a swamp,” Mr. Saft said.
相关的法规可以追溯到1921年的马丁法案(Martin Act)，这部法案之所以出台，是为保护纽约买家不受开发商的欺骗。当时有些开发商做虚假广告，推销佛罗里达等州的度假屋，“结果买家发现自己买下的是一片沼泽。”萨福特说。
With such a high barrier to entry, some developers don’t bother to follow the strictures. The ramifications of failing to file the correct paperwork, however, can be serious, Mr. Saft said. Anyone selling units to New Yorkers without an accepted offering plan faces the possibility of being banned by the attorney general from selling co-ops and condos in New York, as well as fines of $10,000 a unit, he said.
鉴于进入壁垒如此之高，有些开发商并不想遵守这些麻烦的规矩。但是据萨福特说，如果文书不达标，后果可能会很严重。任何开发商如果在其公寓产品说明书尚未获批的情况下，就擅自向纽约人销售公寓单元，那么他们不仅可能被司法部长禁止在纽约销售合作公寓和共管公寓，而且还面临着每套单元房10000美元（约合人民币60817元）的罚款。
“Only serious developers who have major projects can really afford to do business in New York City,” said Mr. Zemah, who spent $100,000 in legal fees to file his offering plan for Meier-on-Rothschild.
“只有作风踏实、而且经营着重大项目的开发商才能在纽约市站稳脚跟。”泽马表示。为了制作Meier-on-Rothschild的公寓产品说明书，他投入了10万美元（约合人民币61万元）的法律费用。
After more than a year of gathering the appropriate paperwork, Mr. Zemah is finally able to begin a marketing push in New York. The company interviewed some 15 New York brokers and recently hired Jacky Teplitzky of Douglas Elliman to represent the building in the state.
经过一年多的文书准备，泽马终于可以开始在纽约推广他的项目了。其公司面试了大约15名纽约房产经纪人，最近聘请了房地产公司Douglas Elliman的杰姬·特普里茨基(Jacky Teplitzky)作为Meier-on-Rothschild在纽约州的销售代表。
“I’m very excited about this opportunity, because we are doing it all the way,” said Ms. Teplitzky, who was born in Chile and raised in Israel. “We have to sell two things: the building and Tel Aviv. People still think of Israel as not a fun country, and associate it with history, religion and conflict.” To change the perception of potential buyers, Ms. Teplitzky is creating a marketing video to take them on a virtual tour of the city. She also plans to open a sales center in New York.
“能得到这次机会，我感到很兴奋，因为这是我们一直以来所做的事，”出生于智利、在以色列长大的特普里茨基说，“我们必须将两样东西推销出去，一个是Meier-on-Rothschild，另一个是特拉维夫。人们现在仍然认为，以色列是个无趣的国家，会把它和历史、宗教、冲突联想到一起。”为了改变潜在买家的印象，特普里茨基正在制作营销视频，向观众展示特拉维夫的风采。她还打算在纽约开设一家销售中心。
“You have all these foreign developers looking around the globe and saying, ‘From where are we going to get our buyers?’ ” Ms. Teplitzky said. “It just makes sense that New York is the next go-to place.”
“你能看到很多外国开发商都在一边环顾全球市场一边说着，‘哪里能够找到我们的买家？’”特普里茨基说，“毋庸置疑，纽约就是下一个目标市场。”