LONDON — IT’S increasingly clear that humanitarian assistance to rebel-held areas of Syria is being impeded by a fear — shared by the United States, the European Commission and many nongovernmental organizations — that food, medicine and other supplies might fall into the hands of terrorists.
伦敦——越来越明显的是，由于担心用于人道主义救援的食品、药品和其他补给有可能落入恐怖分子手中——美国、欧盟委员会(European Commission)以及许多非政府组织都存有这样的顾虑——向叙利亚境内反政府武装控制的地区提供援助的进程正遭遇阻碍。
“The underlying principle for all of us is the humanitarian imperative,” Johannes Luchner of the European Community Humanitarian Office said recently, commenting on aid to Syria, “but what we need is reasonable assurance that the goods go where they need to go because otherwise you could be doing harm. When we don’t get it, we don’t finance.”
“我们的基本原则是人道主义救援刻不容缓，”欧盟委员会人道主义救援办公室(European Community Humanitarian Office)的约翰内斯·鲁赫纳(Johannes Luchner)最近在评论对叙利亚的援助时表示，“但我们需要合理确保相关物品被送到它们该去的地方，因为如果不是这样，你的所作所为就可能造成伤害。得不到这样的保证，我们就不会提供资金援助。”
The fear that aid will fall into the wrong hands — exemplified by a widely circulated photo appearing to show Syrian jihadists standing inside a tent bearing the logo “U.S.A.I.D.” — is understandable. But the insistence that aid should “do no harm,” which has become something of a mantra in the humanitarian community, too often obscures the fact that conflicts are also fueled by the lack of assistance.
担心援助物资落入他人手中是可以理解的。一张广为流传的照片让这种担心得到了印证：在带有美国国际开发署(USAID)标识的一顶帐篷里，居然站着叙利亚圣战分子。可是，坚持救援应该“不伤害”(do no harm)已经成了人道主义团体的口头禅，这往往掩盖了缺乏救援也会让争端愈演愈烈的现实。
This is now the case in Syria. With Western assistance falling far short of needs, a great many Syrians feel deserted, and many are turning to militias (including jihadist groups) that can sometimes offer them a measure of relief — and of hope. The “do no harm” principle is leading to harmful results.
目前，叙利亚便存在这种情况。由于西方的援助远远满足不了需求，大批叙利亚人感觉遭到了遗弃，不少人都转投民兵组织（包括圣战团体），这些组织有时会提供一定的救济，还有希望。“不伤害”原则正在引发有害的后果。
Of course, “do no harm” can be an insightful refrain. In the 1980s, when governments in Sudan and Ethiopia used famine as a tool of counterinsurgency, “do no harm” encouraged a heightened awareness of the possibility that aid can be used for hurting as well as helping. At the extreme, as I discovered while doing fieldwork in Sudan at the time, the government in Khartoum used humanitarian aid to depopulate rebel-held areas of the country, by limiting its distribution to the edge of those areas and effectively starving the interior.
当然，“不伤害”可能是一个颇有见地的口号。上世纪80年代，苏丹和埃塞俄比亚政府曾经把饥荒当作平定叛乱的工具，而“不伤害”有助于使人们意识到，救援物资可能被用来助人，但也可能被用来害人。当时，我通过对苏丹的实地考察发现，在最极端的情况下，喀土穆政府会以人道主义救援物资为工具，让苏丹各个叛军占领区的人口数量出现下降，其做法是限制对占领区边界的物资投放，从而达到让里面的人吃不饱的目的。
But “do no harm” is today being enforced more in relation to rebels than in relation to governments. All too often, as in Syria, the fear of inadvertently aiding terrorists is actually bolstering repressive regimes. In Sri Lanka in 2009, the international community largely held its tongue when aid agencies were kicked out of the north and Tamils were interned en masse. The governing regime in Colombo played on fears that aid to the north and freedom of movement might assist a group — the Tamil Tigers — labeled internationally as “terrorists.”
不过，眼下，“不伤害”原则的推行更多是与叛军而非政府有关。就像在叙利亚那样，对于救援物资会在无意间帮到恐怖分子的担忧，实际上往往让一些专制政权受益。2009年，在斯里兰卡，当救援机构被赶出北部地区，泰米尔人被集体关押的时候，国际社会普遍保持了缄默。人们担心，对北部地区的援助以及行动上的自由，可能会帮到泰米尔猛虎组织(Tamil Tigers)这个在国际上被归为“恐怖分子”的团体。科伦坡的当政者利用了这种心理。
Likewise, in Somalia, starting in the middle of 2009, United States funding for relief to famine-affected areas held by the extremist group the Shabab was considerably reduced because of United States laws designed to prevent relief from falling into the hands of terrorists. The perception that aid was being subordinated to considerations of geopolitics had the effect of reinforcing the rebels’ hostility to aid operations.
同样在索马里，从2009年中开始，美国大幅削减了投向受饥荒影响的激进组织青年党(Shabab)占领地区的援助资金，因为要遵守旨在防止救援物资落入恐怖分子手中的美国相关法律。与地缘政治的考量相比，救援落在了第二位，这种观念造成的后果是：加深了叛军对援助行动的敌意。
In Syria today, there is further disillusionment with the West. During a visit to Turkey’s border with Syria, I saw how violence and hatred in rebel-held areas were being fed more by the shortage of relief than by its provision. A young man who had just come from the devastated city of Aleppo told me: “People like Western civilization. It’s, like, ‘I love this person. But when I had a big trouble, he didn’t help me. So I was wrong. I should go to my religion and have more faith in my region.’ So I can say, ‘We will make an Islamic army and kill these people. We are human too!’ That is why people are supporting Al Nusra” — an organization with links to Al Qaeda.
如今，叙利亚人对西方的幻想正在进一步破灭。在土耳其和叙利亚的边界，我亲眼看到：在反政府军控制的地区，与提供救援相比，救援不足如何催生了更多的暴力和仇恨。一个刚刚从已经被摧毁的城市阿勒颇赶来的年轻男人告诉我：“人们喜欢西方文明，就好象，‘我喜欢这个人，但当我有了大麻烦的时候，他却没有帮助我。所以，我错了。我应该求助于我的宗教，并对我的地区更加忠诚。’于是我可以说，‘我们要组建一支伊斯兰军队，杀死这些人。我们也是人！’这就是人们支持努斯拉阵线(Al Nusra)的原因。”努斯拉阵线是一个与基地组织(Al Qaeda)有关联的团体。
All this suits the Syrian regime, for whom “terrorists among the rebels” have been useful enemies.
所有这一切正符合叙利亚政权的利益，对他们而言，“反政府武装中的恐怖分子”一直是有用的敌人。
Nonetheless, funding for humanitarian aid in Syria continues to fall far short of appeals, and opportunities for helping local councils and a variety of Syrian relief organizations continue to be missed. So too, crucially, does the opportunity for cross-border relief (notably from Turkey). As in most humanitarian emergencies, United Nations agencies have been putting their faith in delivering aid to rebel areas via government-held areas. But as happened so often in the past, the assumption of government cooperation has proved overly optimistic. Aid agencies face extreme difficulty in securing permission from Damascus for distribution to rebel-held areas as well as numerous government roadblocks.
然而，对叙利亚进行人道主义援助的资金依然严重地供不应求，帮助反对派地方组织以及各种叙利亚救援组织的机会继续被错失。所以，进行跨境救援（特别是从土耳其）的机会也被白白错过了，而这十分关键。就像面对大多数人道主义危机时那样，联合国机构一直坚信，可以经由政府控制的地区，把援助物资送达叛军领地。但就像过去时常发生的那样，事实证明，与政府合作这一设想过于乐观。为了把救援物资派发到叛军占领区，救援机构需要从大马士革方面获得许可，但这极为困难。此外，它们还要穿越政府设置的众多路障。
We need to accept that some diversion of aid is a fact of life in all aid operations. We also need to ask ourselves, in conditions of imperfect information, how much reassurance it is reasonable to require. Finally, we need to recognize that “do no harm” can shade into “do nothing,” resulting in a great deal of harm.
我们得承认，在所有的救援行动中，一部分救援物资被挪作他用了，这是无可争辩的事实。我们也该扪心自问，在信息不足够的情况下，要得到多少保证才是合理的。最后，我们还要认识到，“不伤害”可能渐渐变成“不作为”(do nothing)，从而造成巨大的伤害。
Over the past 25 years, there has been a lot of lesson-learning in the humanitarian community, but we seem to have a knack for learning the wrong lessons. Today, apparently mesmerized by the specter of international terrorism (and neglecting the cross-border relief that was eventually adopted in Sudan), we are again depriving civilians in rebel-held areas of vital humanitarian assistance.
过去25年间，人道主义团体有过太多的经验教训，但我们似乎在学习错误经验上颇有天赋。而今，我们显然被国际恐怖主义的幽灵迷住了双眼（并无视在苏丹最终实施了跨境救援的事实），我们正在又一次剥夺叛军占领区的平民接受至关重要的人道主义援助的权利。