LONDON — Like a school principal handing out a clutch of C grades, Andreas Schleicher unveiled the results from the latest round of the Program for International Student Assessment tests last week.
伦敦——安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)上周在公布最新一轮国际学生评估项目（Program for International Student Assessment，简称PISA）测评的结果的时候，就如同一位校长发出了一大堆差强人意的成绩单。
For Britain, the United States and most of Western Europe, the results ranged from “average” to “poor.” British students, for example, scored exactly average in mathematics and slightly above average in reading and science. French students were slightly below average in science and slightly above in reading and mathematics. The United States were below average in mathematics and science but slightly above in reading.
英国、美国和大部分西欧国家的测评结果都分布在“中”和“差”之间。例如，英国学生的数学成绩恰好为中等，阅读和科学成绩略高于平均水平。法国学生的科学成绩略低于平均成绩，阅读和数学成绩则要略高一些。美国学生的数学和科学成绩低于平均分，但阅读成绩比平均分略高。
For Asian countries, the news was much more encouraging, with students from Shanghai topping the chart by a considerable margin, but with students from Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea all closely bunched at the high end.
有关亚洲的消息则令人振奋得多。上海学生的成绩遥遥领先；此外，新加坡、香港、台湾和韩国的学生都在高分区扎了堆。
Mr. Schleicher, the head of education at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which administers the tests every three years to about half a million 15-year-olds in 65 countries around the world, also noted significant improvement in Vietnam. He described it as a poor country whose students outperformed peers from many wealthier nations — and did even better once differences in income were taken into account.
施莱谢尔还注意到了越南学生的巨大进步。他说，比起来自很多富裕国家的同龄人，穷国越南的学生表现得较为出色，如果把收入差距考虑在内，他们的表现甚至还要更出色一些。施莱谢尔是经济合作与发展组织（Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称OECD）的教育事务负责人，该机构每隔三年都要对大约50万名来自全球65个国家、年龄为15岁的学生进行测评。
“On a level playing field, the British look even worse,” he said at a press conference here.
“如果剔除非公平竞争的因素，英国学生的成绩看起来甚至还要更糟一些，”他在伦敦举行新闻发布会时表示。
Western countries, Mr. Schleicher warned, should not to comfort themselves with the myth that Asian high performance is the result of education systems that favor memorization over creativity.
施莱谢尔警告称，西方国家不应该自我安慰地以为，亚洲学生的高分神话不过是重记忆、轻创造的教育体制的产物。
“The big success in East Asia is not a success in drilling,” he said, adding that the mathematics test required creativity and problem solving skills based on a deep understanding of mathematical concepts.
他表示，“东亚学生取得令人惊叹的好成绩，靠的不是死记硬背。”他还补充说，数学测试考的是学生的创造力，以及以深入理解数学概念为基础的解题技巧。
Michael Gove, the British education secretary, was quick to attribute his country’s lackluster performance to the previous Labour government, which left office in 2010. Noting that this was the first time that Britain had failed to finish in the top 20 countries in any category, Mr. Gove said in a statement that unless the country could provide children “with a school system that is one of the best in the world, we will not give them the opportunities they need to flourish and succeed.”
英国教育大臣迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)立即把本国学生的表现平平归咎于已经在2010年下台的上一届工党(Labour)政府。戈夫在一份声明中提到，英国没能在任何科目中进入前20名，这还是第一次，他表示，除非这个国家能为孩子们提供“世界上数一数二的学校教育制度，否则我们就无法向他们提供茁壮成长、获得成功所需要的机会”。
“That is why it is so important today that we have a unified national commitment to excellence in all our schools for all our pupils,” he added.
“这就是为什么我们全国都要下定决心，让每个学生所就读的每所学校都能出类拔萃，”他补充道。
Tristram Hunt, the Labour Party’s spokesman on education, however, criticized Mr. Gove for allowing some schools to recruit what he said were unqualified teachers, pointing out that the highest-performing countries were those which did the most to emphasize the importance of teaching as a profession.
但戈夫却遭到了工党教育事务发言人特里斯特拉姆·亨特(Tristram Hunt)的批评，后者形容戈夫允许某些学校聘请的教师不合格。亨特指出，在PISA测评中成绩最好的，是把教学当作一门专业，并且强调其重要性的那些国家。
Referring to the Program for International Student Assessment, Mr. Hunt said in a statement: “The PISA report is a big wake-up call. Eastern dominance centers on the importance that these high-performing education systems place on the quality and status of the teaching profession as the central lever for driving up standards.”
谈及PISA，亨特在一份声明中表示：“PISA测评报告敲响了振聋发聩的警钟。东方国家之所以有优异成绩，原因在于其高效的教育体系强调教学这门专业的质量和地位，并将其当成提升水准的主要手段。”
Though most of the press coverage in Britain focused on its performance, John Jerrim, a professor at the Institute for Education, said he thought that the big news in the results was neither the continuing rise of Asia nor the relatively flat results from the United States and Europe over all but a sharp drop in the scores for Swedish schools.
英国的大多数新闻报道所关注的都是本国的成绩，但伦敦大学教育学院(Institute for Education)的教授约翰·杰瑞姆(John Jerrim)表示，在他看来，与测评结果有关的最大新闻既不是亚洲的成绩继续上升，也不是美国和欧洲的整体表现相对平淡，而是瑞典学校的分数大幅下降。
“Sweden has the biggest decline of any country in the world,” Dr. Jerrim said in an interview. “They’re down 3.3 percent in mathematics, 3.1 percent in science and 2.8 percent in reading, and that continues a trend from 2009.”
“在所有国家中，瑞典的分数下降得最厉害，”杰瑞姆在接受采访时说。“该国学生的数学成绩下降了3.3%，科学和阅读成绩分别下降了3.1%和2.8%，这是从2009年开始的下降势头的延续。”
Yet the American and British governments “have followed the Swedish model by opening more and more ‘free schools’ or charter schools,” he said.
可是，他说，美国和英国政府“却已经采用了瑞典的模式，开办越来越多的‘自由学校’或者特许学校”。
His skepticism was echoed by Mr. Schleicher, the O.E.C.D. official, who said, “The data shows no relation between competition between schools and the overall performance level.”
他的疑虑得到了OECD官员施莱谢尔的回应，后者称，“数据显示，学校之间的竞争与学生的整体成绩水平不存在关联。”
Asked afterward what the highest-performing systems had in common, Mr. Schleicher said: “High performers pay teachers more. They are also systems with a commitment to universal achievement.”
当被问及成绩很好的教育体系有哪些共同点时，施莱谢尔表示：“成绩好的教育体系教师的报酬更高，而且有决心提高整体成绩。”
In Shanghai, more than half the students tested finished in the top two categories in mathematics, he noted, and the figure in Singapore was 40 percent.
他指出，在上海，一半以上参试学生的数学成绩进入了前两档；在新加坡，这一比例是40%。
Only about 13 percent of French students made it into the top two categories in mathematics while in the United States only 8.8 percent did.
只有13%的法国学生数学考分挤入了前两档；美国学生中则只有8.8%。