WASHINGTON — In this summer of global tumult, the debate in Washington essentially boils down to two opposite positions: It is all President Obama’s fault, according to his critics; no, it is not, according to his supporters, because these are events beyond his control.
华盛顿——在动荡与不安席卷全球的这个夏天，华盛顿的唇枪舌战基本上可以归结为两个彼此对立的观点：他的批评者说，一切都是奥巴马总统的错；他的支持者则说，不，不是他的错，因为那些事都超出了他的掌控范围。
Americans often think of their president as an all-powerful figure who can command the tides of history — and presidents have encouraged this image over the years because the perception itself can be a form of power. But as his critics have made the case that Mr. Obama’s mistakes have fueled the turmoil in places like Syria, Iraq and Ukraine, the president has increasingly argued that his power to shape these seismic forces is actually limited.
美国人总爱把他们的总统看做一个无所不能的角色，有本事驾驭历史的潮流——而多年以来，总统们也总是鼓励人们这么想，因为这种看法本身就构成一种力量。但当批评者指出，奥巴马的种种失误加剧了叙利亚、伊拉克和乌克兰等地的乱局时，他却越来越强调，自己影响这些灾难性因素的能力实际上非常有限。
“Apparently,” he said in frustration the other day, “people have forgotten that America, as the most powerful country on earth, still does not control everything around the world.”
有一天，奥巴马不快地说，“人们似乎忘了，虽然美国是地球上最强大的国家，但它仍然无法掌控这世上的一切。”
While as a statement of fact Mr. Obama’s assertion may be self-evident, it was seen by adversaries as a cop-out and even by more sympathetic analysts as a revealing moment for a president whiplashed by international instability.
尽管作为一个事实，奥巴马的说法可能是不言自明的，但在反对者眼里，这么说就是一种逃避，就连更认同他的分析人士也认为，这是一位被动荡的国际局势所折磨的总统泄露了心里话。
“At least since World War II, presidents have been unwilling to discuss deficiencies in capability because they’re expected to do everything, and they like that sense of omnipotence,” said Jeremy Shapiro, a former Obama State Department official now at the Brookings Institution. “Obama has been trying to change that in the last year because he senses that the requirements of omnipotence have gotten so far out of whack with what he can actually accomplish that he needs to change the expectations.”
“至少从二战开始，总统们就一直不愿承认能力有限，因为他们被期待能做到一切，他们也喜欢那种无所不能的感觉，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的杰里米·夏皮罗(Jeremy Shapiro)说。他曾在奥巴马治下的国务院担任官员。“奥巴马去年一直在设法改变这一点，因为他感受到，对无所不能的要求已经如此远离自己的真实能力，因此他需要调整人们的期望值。”
The risk, naturally, is that the president looks as if he is simply trying to excuse his own actions, or inactions, as the case may be.
当然了，奥巴马这样做的风险在于，他看起来只是在为自己的作为或者不作为找借口，而事实有可能就是这样。
“It’s become a refrain to the point where I think people are becoming quite critical that that’s his response to everything,” said Daniel L. Byman, a former member of the Sept. 11 commission staff now teaching at Georgetown University. “He’s not differentiating between things he can influence and those that he can’t.”
“他总是提这句话，我想，都到了越来越被人质疑的地步：这是否就是他对所有问题的回应呢？”在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)任教的丹尼尔·比曼(Daniel L. Byman)说。他曾是“9·11”委员会的成员。“他没有区分出哪些事情是他能够改变的，又有哪些事情他无能为力。”
The bill of particulars against Mr. Obama is long. In the view of his critics, he failed to stanch the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria when he rejected proposals to arm more moderate elements of the Syrian resistance. He left a vacuum in Iraq by not doing more to leave a residual force behind when American troops exited in 2011. And he signaled weakness to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, encouraging the Kremlin to think it could intervene in Ukraine without fear of significant consequence.
对奥巴马不利的具体事例数不胜数。批评者认为，他拒绝了为叙利亚抵抗势力中的温和派提供武器，因此未能遏制伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的崛起。2011年美军撤出伊拉克时，他未能尽更大的努力留下驻军，从而在伊拉克造成了真空。此外，他在弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)面前示弱，让克里姆林宫更加确信自己可以插手乌克兰事务，而无需担心严重后果。
“I certainly do not think President Obama is responsible for all of the world crises that have taken place during his time in office,” said William C. Inboden, a former national security aide to President George W. Bush and executive director of the William P. Clements Jr. Center on History, Strategy and Statecraft at the University of Texas. “But he is responsible for actions and attitudes he took that have contributed to some of those crises — and he is also responsible for how he responds, or fails to respond.”
“我当然不认为奥巴马总统需要为发生在自己任期内的世界上的所有危机负责，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的国家安全顾问威廉·C·因博登(William C. Inboden)说。他目前在德克萨斯大学(University of Texas)的小威廉·P·克莱门茨历史、战略与政治中心(William P. Clements Jr. Center on History, Strategy and Statecraft)担任执行主管。“但是，他应该对自己的举动和态度加深了一些危机负责——而且也应该对自身的回应或不加回应负责。”
Republicans are not the only ones voicing such sentiments. In her interview with The Atlantic that caused a recent furor, former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said “the failure” to build up moderate Syrian rebels left a vacuum for the more ruthless forces of ISIS to fill.
表达这种情绪的并非只有共和党人。最近，前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在接受《大西洋》月刊(The Atlantic)采访时所说的话掀起了一阵波澜。她表示，在建立温和的叙利亚反对派方面的“失败”留下了一个真空地带，使得更加残暴的ISIS势力得以趁虚而入。
In a Wall Street Journal opinion article on Friday, Gen. James L. Jones, the retired NATO commander and Mr. Obama’s first national security adviser, said the president should have left some troops in Iraq, retaliated against Syria for crossing his “red line” by using chemical weapons, and pressured the Baghdad government to arm the Kurds.
上周五，退役的北约(NATO)最高指挥官、奥巴马的首位国家安全顾问詹姆斯·L·琼斯上将(Gen. James L. Jones)在《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)上发表了一篇评论文章。文中称，奥巴马本应留一些驻军队在伊拉克、对叙利亚动用化学武器的跨越“红线”之举予以还击，并对巴格达政府施加压力，让他们将库尔德人武装起来。
Such criticisms exasperate Mr. Obama and his team. In some cases, they argue, the crises that have emerged were wholly unforeseen. In others, they said, the solutions proffered by critics would not have worked and, in fact, may have made things worse. And besides, they often add, Mr. Obama inherited a situation that was broken when he got it, pointing to Mr. Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in the first place.
这些批评让奥巴马及其团队颇为恼怒。他们辩称，有些危机的发生完全在意料之外；还有些时候，批评者提出的解决方案根本不会奏效，实际上还可能会使事态恶化。他们还表示，不要忘了，在奥巴马接管政府时，局势就已十分糟糕，从而将矛头指向布什当时出兵伊拉克的决定。
As it happens, Mr. Obama’s policy of restraint seems to match the public mood — polls find little appetite for robust American intervention in Ukraine, Syria or Iraq. And yet, there is a palpable sense of disappointment with Mr. Obama’s leadership on the world stage as well. Fifty-eight percent of Americans in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll disapproved of his handling of foreign policy, the highest of his presidency.
奥巴马的克制政策似乎恰好符合公众的情绪——民意调查显示，人们都不怎么希望美国积极干预乌克兰、叙利亚或伊拉克的局势。然而，民众对奥巴马在世界舞台上的领导力表现的失望之情也显而易见。根据《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道组织的联合民调结果，58%的美国民众不赞同他在外交政策领域的处理手法。这是奥巴马担任总统以来最高的反对数据。
Some Democrats said Mr. Obama’s challenge has not necessarily been his approach to these crises, but his ability to explain and sell it.
有些民主党人表示，奥巴马所面临的挑战不一定是他应对这些危机的策略，而是他解释和宣传这些策略的本领。
“What he’s come up with in Iraq and in Ukraine are sensible strategies,” said former Representative Jane Harman of California, now president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. “He now needs to link them with a narrative that explains to the American people why we have to re-engage in foreign policy matters, and I hope he does that.”
“他应对伊拉克和乌克兰局势的政策都是明智的，”前加州联邦众议员、目前担任伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)主任的简·哈曼(Jane Harman)说。“他现在需要把政策与叙事联系起来，向美国民众解释，我们为何必须重新介入外交问题。我希望他能做到这一点。”
Tom Donilon, another former national security adviser to Mr. Obama, said the president has had to exercise leadership in situations he inherited as well as in others that were not of his making, but added that to avoid letting them consume his remaining time in office, he should set the agenda for positive international initiatives.
汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)也曾担任奥巴马的国家安全顾问。他表示，有些问题是奥巴马上任时接手的，有些问题则不是他制造的，但他必须在这些领域也发挥领导作用。多尼隆还说，为了避免这些问题消耗奥巴马的剩余在任时间，他应该制订积极的国际政策议程。