LONDON — International aid agencies and governments mobilized Sunday to respond to the devastating earthquake in Nepal, saying they faced challenges in getting assistance to the country and distributing it amid the widespread devastation there.
伦敦——周日，国际援助机构和政府纷纷动员起来，应对尼泊尔发生的毁灭性地震。它们表示，在把援助送抵尼泊尔并在大规模破坏的背景下施行援助方面，自身面临着重重挑战。
In the aftermath of the disaster, which has killed more than 2,400 people, injured 5,900 and left many more homeless, development workers said that continued aftershocks, a crippled transport network and the loss of power in parts of the country had made it tough to search for survivors and distribute much-needed supplies.
此次地震导致逾2400人死亡、5900人受伤，还使得许多人无家可归。从事发展工作的人员表示，余震不断，交通瘫痪，部分地区断电，致使他们很难搜寻幸存者，分发亟需的物资。
And employees of aid organizations have been affected themselves even as they organize responses to the catastrophe. Sanjay Karki, the country director for Mercy Corps, an international aid organization, said some members of his staff had lost their homes and that although his own house was still standing, his extended family in Kathmandu was camping outside until the aftershocks subsided.
在组织应对这场灾难的同时，援助机构的工作人员自身也受到了影响。援助机构国际美慈组织(Mercy Corps)尼泊尔地区的负责人桑贾伊·卡尔基(Sanjay Karki)表示，手下一些工作人员的住所被毁，虽然他自己的房子没有倒塌，但他在加德满都的亲属正在室外露宿，等待余震减弱。
“Every one or two hours we feel those big jolts,” Karki said. “We really don't know what to expect, so everyone is in a state of panic.”
“每隔一两个小时，就能感觉到巨大的震动，”卡尔基说。“我们完全不知道会发生什么，所以每个人都处于恐慌之中。”
The United States, India and China initiated their own relief efforts that were expected to see substantial numbers of foreign aid workers, search-and-rescue teams and medical equipment reach the stricken country over the next couple of days.
美国、印度和中国启动了自身的救援工作。未来几天，会看到大批外国救援人员、搜救队和医疗设备抵达这个遭受重创的国家。
“We're just gearing up,” said Roger Hodgson, deputy country director in Nepal for Save the Children, an international charity that already has more than 400 people, mostly Nepali in the country. “People have been resilient. But it's been difficult to get people and supplies into the country, especially to rural areas far from Kathmandu.”
“我们正在做准备，”救助儿童会(Save the Children)尼泊尔地区的副主管罗格·霍奇森(Roger Hodgson)表示。“人有适应能力。但人员和物资难以进入，特别是远离加德满都的乡村地区。”这家国际慈善组织在尼泊尔的工作人员已达400多名，主要是当地人。
The United Nations has said that more than 6 million people live in the areas of Nepal that have been affected by the earthquake. Many individuals have either lost their homes or have been forced to live on the streets because of the threat of further aftershocks.
联合国表示，有600万人生活在受此次地震影响的地区。很多人要么失去了家园，要么因为余震而被迫露宿街头。
“What's important to remember about Kathmandu is that it's densely, densely packed,” said Gary Shaye, the director of humanitarian operations for Save the Children who worked in Nepal in the '70s and '80s. “This is a village that grew into a city.” He added, “There is not a lot of open space to accommodate people who get displaced.”
“谈到加德满都，一定要记住的是，这里的人口非常非常地密集，”救助儿童会的人道主义行动负责人加里·沙亚(Gary Shaye)说。“这里原本是座村庄，慢慢发展成了城市。”他还表示，“没有太多开阔空间来安置那些流离失所的人。”沙亚曾于上世纪七八十年代在尼泊尔工作。
Rain descended on Kathmandu on Sunday, and Shaye said that the relief efforts faced a “race against time” because the monsoon season begins in June.
周日，加德满都下起大雨。沙亚说，救援工作需要“与时间赛跑”，因为雨季将从6月开始。
“Even if we had all the plastic sheeting and temporary shelter, is this going to be adequate for the monsoon season?” he asked.
他问道，“即使我们有很多塑料布和临时庇护所，是不是就足以应对雨季呢？”
Still, because a severe earthquake had long been predicted by geologists, some agencies had made preparations and disaster plans.
不过，因为地质学家很久之前就预测会发生一场严重的地震，一些机构已经进行了准备工作，制订了救灾计划。
“There was a sense of readiness you always have to have,” said Sarah Crowe, the crisis communications chief of UNICEF, who has also worked in Nepal.
同样曾在尼泊尔工作的联合国儿童基金会(UNICEF)负责危机公关事务的官员萨拉·克罗伊(Sarah Crowe)说，“要时刻具备做好准备的意识，而这种意识此前是存在的。”
She said UNICEF had supplies of tents, plastic sheeting and buckets, as well as zinc and oral hydration solutions for children who might be dehydrated from diarrhea.
她表示，联合国儿童基金会准备的补给品包括帐篷、塑料布和水桶，还有锌和口服脱水补充液，用以防止孩童因为腹泻而脱水。
“It won't be enough, and more shipments will have to be brought in,” she said.
她说，“这些并不足够，还需要更多的救援物资。”
A U.S. disaster relief response team of almost 70 people is expected to arrive Monday, said Susan Parker-Burns, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu. Two teams of U.S. Special Forces were already in Nepal on a training exercise, and were now providing logistical and medical support to the country's army, she added.
美国驻加德满都大使馆的女发言人苏珊·帕克-伯恩斯(Susan Parker-Burns)称，一支由近70人组成的美国救灾应急队预计将于周一抵达。此外，两支美国特种部队本已身处尼泊尔进行训练演习，目前正在为尼泊尔军队提供物流和医疗支持。
Several of Nepal's neighbors have sent immediate help. India said that it had deployed 13 military transport planes and a 40-person disaster response team, while China said that a search-and-rescue team had already reached Kathmandu.
尼泊尔的几个邻国迅速提供了帮助。印度称已派遣13架军用运输机和一支由40人组成的救灾应急队；中国则表示，派出的一支搜救队已经抵达加德满都。
Several European governments also have offered financial resources and personnel. On Sunday, the British government said it had made $7.5 million available to charities already working in Nepal so that they could buy essential supplies. Norway has pledged $4 million, while other European countries, like Germany, France and Spain, said they would offer financial support.
几个欧洲国家的政府也主动提出在金融资源和人员方面予以支援。周日，英国政府表示，为已在尼泊尔工作的慈善机构提供了750万美元（约合4650万元人民币）可供使用的资金，用于购买必需品。挪威承诺提供400万美元，德国、法国和西班牙等其他一些欧洲国家也宣布将提供金融支持。