JOHANNESBURG — Representatives from more than 100 countries have agreed to ban worldwide trade in pangolins, which are now threatened with extinction because of illegal trafficking in Asia and Africa.
约翰内斯堡——眼下，亚洲和非洲地区的非法买卖让穿山甲面临着灭绝的危险。来自100多个国家的代表已经同意在全球范围内禁止穿山甲贸易。
“This is really, really great news,” said Chris Shepherd, the Southeast Asia regional director of Traffic, a wildlife trade monitoring group. “It’s black and white now — any pangolins in international trade are illegal.”
“这是一个非常非常好的消息，”监测野生动物贸易的组织Traffic的东南亚地区主任克里斯·谢泼德(Chris Shepherd)说。“现在黑白分明了——任何涉及穿山甲的国际贸易都是非法的。”
But the decision here at a meeting of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, does not assure the survival of the eight species of pangolins.
该决定是在这里的一场《濒危野生动植物国际贸易公约》（Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora，简称Cites）缔约国会议上出炉的。但它并不能确保八种穿山甲不会灭绝。
Cites is an international trade agreement signed by 183 countries, including the United States. While the commercial sale of pangolins across international borders will no longer be permitted under the agreement, enforcement is lacking in many countries. The vast majority of pangolin trade already violates Cites and the laws of many nations.
Cites是由包括美国在内的183个国家签署的一项国际贸易协定。尽管根据最新的协议，将不得再对穿山甲进行跨境商业销售，但许多国家的执法力度都不够。绝大多数穿山甲贸易已经违反了Cites和许多国家的法律。
Elusive and shy, pangolins have not earned the sort of attention from conservation groups given to elephants, tigers, rhinoceroses and lions. But pangolins are the most trafficked mammals in the world: More than one million have been illegally traded since 2000, mostly for their meat, considered a delicacy in some Asian counties, and for their scales, which are used in traditional Chinese medicine.
生性害羞而又难见行踪的穿山甲从保育团体那里获得的关注，目前还无法跟大象、老虎、犀牛和狮子相比。但穿山甲是全世界非法交易量最大的哺乳动物：自从2000年以来，共有超过100万只穿山甲被非法贩卖，多数是为了取其肉或鳞片。穿山甲肉在一些亚洲国家被视为美味佳肴，鳞片则可用于中药。
“Poachers who take ivory are increasingly getting caught with pangolin scales as well,” said Aurélie Flore Koumba Pambo, scientific coordinator at Gabon’s national parks. “If we continue to postpone strengthening of pangolin protection, we will find ourselves in a position where all African pangolin species disappear from our ecosystems forever.”
“我们越来越多地发现，偷猎象牙者被抓时还带有穿山甲鳞片，”加蓬国家公园的科学协调员奥雷利·弗洛尔·孔巴·潘布(said Aurélie Flore Koumba Pambo)说。“如果继续推迟加强穿山甲保护工作的日程，等待我们的将是：非洲所有种类的穿山甲永远从生态系统中消失。”
India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Vietnam, Nigeria and Senegal — along with a few co-sponsoring countries, including the United States — put forward proposals at the treaty meeting to increase protections for pangolin species.
印度、孟加拉国、尼泊尔、斯里兰卡、菲律宾、越南、尼日利亚和塞内加尔——以及包括美国在内的几个附议国——在缔约国大会上提交了关于加大对各种穿山甲的保护力度的提案。
Only representatives from Indonesia, which along with China and Uganda has expressed interest in farming pangolins, opposed increased protection for two pangolin species in Asia.
只有来自印度尼西亚的代表反对加强对亚洲的两种穿山甲的保护工作。印尼以及中国和乌干达表达了对养殖穿山甲的兴趣。
But the animals are notoriously difficult to keep alive in captivity, let alone breed. And even if that were not the case, legal trade would have provided a smoke screen for illegal laundering, according to a joint statement by 53 wildlife groups addressed to the Uganda Wildlife Authority.
但想让人工圈养的穿山甲活下来都绝非易事，更别提繁殖了。就算不是这样，据53个野生动物保护团体提交给乌干达野生动物管理局的一份联合声明所言，合法贸易也会为洗白非法贸易提供烟雾弹。
Because of Indonesia’s opposition, trade ban proposals for two of the four Asian species went to a vote. The results were overwhelming: 114 nations voted in favor, Indonesia against, and five abstained, including China.
亚洲共有四种穿山甲，由于印尼的反对，禁止买卖其中两种的提案进入了投票表决程序。表决结果对比悬殊：114个国家投了赞同票，印尼投了反对票，包括中国在内的五个国家弃权。
Individual countries are supposed to carry out the protections mandated by Cites. But Laos, cited by Traffic as a hub for illegal pangolin trade, and other nations have not passed the necessary laws.
各个缔约国均应执行Cites关于保护穿山甲的规定。但老挝以及其他一些国家尚未让必要的法律获得通过。老挝被Traffic列为非法穿山甲贸易的一个枢纽。
“That’s the next step — encouraging countries without legislation to get that in place,” Dr. Shepherd said. “This is a huge step in the right direction to combating the illegal trade of pangolins, but international cooperation is required to make it effective.”
“敦促缺乏立法保障的国家让相关法律就位是后话，”谢泼德博士说。“这项协议是朝着打击非法穿山甲贸易的正确方向迈出的一大步，但要让它发挥效力，必须进行国际合作。”