As Sepp Blatter sought election to his first term as president of FIFA, ahead of the 1998 World Cup in France, word spread at the Méridien hotel in Paris of cash-stuffed envelopes meant for something other than Christmas bonuses.
1998年法国足球世界杯之前，赛普‧布拉特(Sepp Blatter)在争取当选国际足联(FIFA)主席的第一个任期时，消息在巴黎艾美酒店传开：塞进信封的现金不仅仅意味着圣诞节奖金。
Mr. Blatter’s opponent, Lennart Johansson of Sweden, proposed a curious electoral system: one person, one vote, one spy. Mr. Johansson wanted each FIFA delegate to be monitored as he cast his ballot. Just so, you know, the voting wouldn’t be as deftly manipulated as a ball at Zinédine Zidane’s feet.
布拉特的竞选对手是瑞典人伦纳德·约翰松(Lennart Johansson)，约翰松提出了一个奇怪的选举方法：一个人，一张票，一个监视者。约翰松想让每个国际足联代表在投票时都遭到监视。这样一来，投票就不会像齐内丁·齐达内(Zinedine Zidane)脚下的足球那样，遭到巧妙的操控。
Both the proposal and Mr. Johansson’s candidacy fell to swift and unceremonious defeat, and Mr. Blatter became his sport’s most powerful figure. He has ruled FIFA, soccer’s world governing body, for the past 17 years with no term limit, no external oversight, no passion for business ethics, no appetite for reform and, apparently, no shame over the rampant scandals, corruption and match-fixing that have sullied the beautiful game.
约翰松的竞选和他的提案都迅速遭受惨败，布拉特成为这项运动中最具权势的人物。在过去17年里，他执掌足球世界的管理机构国际足联，没有任期限制，不受外部监督，不热衷于商业伦理，对改革没有兴趣。而且，对于猖獗的丑闻、腐败和假球玷污美丽的足球运动的现状，他似乎并不感到羞耻。
Mr. Blatter, 79, is expected to win a fifth term as FIFA’s president on Friday, but he presides over an organization covered in the soot of dishonor. Several FIFA officials were arrested Wednesday morning in Zurich and accused of widespread corruption dating to the 1990s.
布拉特现年79岁，有望本周五赢得国际足联主席的第五个任期，但他执掌的这个组织已陷入耻辱之中。周三上午，国际足联几位官员在苏黎世被捕，他们被指控自20世纪90年代以来大肆腐败。
Mr. Blatter was not charged. Still he remains wildly unpopular, except among his enablers — corporate sponsors like Coca-Cola, Adidas and Visa, and docile national soccer federations — who have for too long looked the other way as the money and the favors flowed.
布拉特没有遭到起诉。尽管如此，仍然有非常多的人不喜欢他，当然他的支持者除外——如像可口可乐(Coca-Cola)、阿迪达斯(Adidas)和Visa这样的赞助企业，以及温顺的各国足联——在金钱和人情的往来中，他们长期睁一只眼闭一只眼。
As long as Mr. Blatter remains in power, “FIFA will lack credibility and its image will be tarnished, and so it will lack authority,” Michel Platini, who heads UEFA, the European soccer confederation, told the French sports newspaper L’Équipe.
只要布拉特仍然掌权，“国际足联就缺乏可信度，形象就会受损，因此也就会缺乏权威，”欧足联(UEFA)主席米歇尔·普拉蒂尼(Michel Platini)对法国体育报纸《队报》(L’Équipe)说。
Mr. Blatter has quadrupled FIFA’s revenue and maintained power and support by doling out hundreds of thousands of dollars annually to each of the world’s 209 national soccer federations. Each federation gets one vote for FIFA president. The money paid to them is often loosely accounted for, though, and many suspect it builds the personal wealth of soccer officials as much as it builds soccer fields.
布拉特让国际足联的收入翻了两番，通过每年向全球209个成员国各自发放数以十万计的美元，他把持着权力，继续获得支持。在选举国际足联主席时，每个成员国都有一票。发放给他们的资金往往管理得很松散，很多人怀疑足球官员不只将这笔钱用来修建足球场，还用其中饱私囊。
Last November, for example, Nepal’s soccer chief stepped down after being accused of pocketing more than $5 million in soccer funds.
例如，去年11月，尼泊尔最高足球官员在被指私吞了逾500万美元的足球资金后下台。
At the World Cup, FIFA has been accused of running a kind of strip-mining operation, removing with its corporate partners much of the profit and leaving the host countries with stadiums that are seldom used — discarded stage sets for an international television audience.
在世界杯上，有人指控国际足联采用了“露天采矿”式的工作方法，和企业合作伙伴卷走了大部分的利润，给东道国留下一些很少用到的体育场馆——为国际电视观众收看赛事修建的舞台布景，在世界杯后变得荒废。
The Arena Pernambuco in Recife, Brazil, built at great expense as part of the country’s $10 billion-plus investment in the 2014 World Cup, now hosts corporate events, fairs, weddings and birthday parties, according to The Associated Press. The stadium, where the United States lost to Germany last summer, sounds more like a Chuck E. Cheese’s.
据美联社报道，巴西为2014年世界杯投资了逾100亿美元，其中造价不菲的累西腓伯南布哥体育场(Arena Pernambuco)现在被用来举办企业活动、展览会、婚礼和生日派对。美国队去年夏天曾在这个体育场里输给了德国队，现在它听上去更像是Chuck E. Cheese’s家庭娱乐中心。
“Power is disproportionately allocated in favor of FIFA and corporate entities to the detriment of the host government and their citizens,” concluded a book by the Institute for Security Studies in South Africa, “Player and Referee: Conflicting Interests and the 2010 FIFA World Cup,” written by investigative reporters before that tournament was held in South Africa.
“权力分配不成比例地有利于国际足联和实体企业，不利于东道国政府及其公民，”南非安全研究所(Institute for Security Studies)的《运动员和裁判员：利益冲突与2010年世界杯》(Player and Referee: Conflicting Interests and the2010 FIFA World Cup)称。调查记者在南非世界杯举行之前撰写了该书。
Garrulous and paunchy, Mr. Blatter, a Swiss, can be farsighted and autocratic. He has brought the World Cup to Africa, where the Olympics have never gone, and has helped raise the profile of women’s soccer. But he also said that the women’s game could become more popular if the players wore tighter uniforms.
布拉特是个喋喋不休、大腹便便的瑞士人，既有远见，也很专横。他把世界杯带到了奥运会迄今尚未涉足的非洲，他还提升了女子足球的形象。但他也表示，如果队员穿着的制服更紧身一些，女足比赛可能会更有人气。
And he is forcing women to play the 2015 World Cup on artificial turf in Canada, while men have always been afforded the comfort and true bounce of grass. Recently, Mr. Blatter called himself the “godfather” of women’s soccer.
他强迫女球员在加拿大的人造草坪上打2015年世界杯，同时又一直为男球员提供舒适的设施和真草坪。但在近日，布拉特自称是女子足球的“教父”。
Serious charges have been levied against Mr. Blatter for years. In 2002, Michel Zen-Ruffinen, then FIFA’s secretary general, accused Mr. Blatter of financial mismanagement and wrote that he ran FIFA “like a dictatorship.”
多年来，布拉特遭受了一些严重指控。2002年，国际足联前秘书长米歇尔-曾-鲁芬宁(Michel Zen-Ruffinen)指责布拉特对财务管理不善，称他“像独裁一样”执掌国际足联。
Such caustic words have always bounced off Mr. Blatter like a header off the crossbar. He has never admitted wrongdoing. FIFA’s marketing arm went bankrupt in 2001 after paying millions in bribes, including to Mr. Blatter’s predecessor, João Havelange of Brazil. Mr. Blatter was cleared, but FIFA investigators questioned whether he knew or should have known about the payments.
这些严厉的言辞就像足球撞在横梁上一样，总是被布拉特弹开。他从未承认过自己有不当行为。2001年，国际足联的市场营销部门在支付了数以百万计的贿赂后破产，受贿人包括布拉特的前任、巴西人若昂·阿维兰热(João Havelange)。布拉特没有牵涉其中，但国际足联调查人员质询过他是否知道或者应当知道这些款项的支出。
When public reproach became too stinging, Mr. Blatter created his own celluloid reality. In 2014, FIFA spent $27 million on a hagiographic movie about Mr. Blatter, with Tim Roth starring in this bit of pulp fiction. Recently, he compared himself to a mountain goat, telling a Swiss newspaper: “I cannot be stopped. I just keep going.”
当公众的非议变得太刺耳时，布拉特就会开展美化行动。2014年，国际足联斥资2700万美元拍摄了一部讴歌布拉特的传记电影，让蒂姆·罗斯(Tim Roth)出演了这部有些低俗的虚构作品。最近，布拉特把自己比作一只山羊，对一家瑞士报纸说：“我是无可阻挡的，我只会继续前进。”
Mr. Blatter’s preferred method is to sweep scandal under a threadbare carpet. When Jack Warner, a FIFA power broker from Trinidad and Tobago, resigned in 2011, accused in a bribery scandal, Mr. Blatter halted any further investigation of Mr. Warner.
布拉特最常用的方法是遮掩丑闻。当来自特立尼达和多巴哥的国际足联权力掮客杰克·华纳(Jack Warner)在2011年因卷入贿赂丑闻辞职后，布拉特完全叫停了对华纳的深入调查。
FIFA never bothered to interview a referee, Ibrahim Chaibou, who officiated a number of apparently fixed matches before and after the 2010 World Cup. And Mr. Blatter oversaw the release of only a tepid summary of his chief ethics investigator’s report into the much-criticized bidding for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. The tournaments were awarded to Russia and Qatar in a process rife with accusations of bribery and vote trading.
国际足联从未费心对裁判易卜拉欣·查布(Ibrahim Chaibou)进行调查，此人在2010年世界杯前后担任多场球赛的裁判时有明显的作假行为。对于备受批评的2018年和2022年世界杯申办过程，布拉特的首席道德调查官撰写了调查报告，而布拉特仅仅让人发布了一份不咸不淡的报告总结。这两届世界杯的申办过程充斥着对贿赂和投票交易的指控，最后俄罗斯和卡塔尔获得了主办权。