Tourists from China’s crowded coasts have long considered this city of 1.2 million in the Himalayan foothills a scenic getaway.
长期以来，来自中国拥挤的沿海地区的游客，一直把这座喜马拉雅山脚下的120万人口的城市，当作一个风景优美的世外桃源。
Its hotel choices are still predominantly low- and midrange properties, but a few of the top luxury hotel brands are putting the final touches on properties here in hopes of attracting China’s growing ranks of wealthy travelers.
这里的酒店选择仍主要是中低档的，但几家顶级豪华品牌正在给它们在此地的酒店做收尾工作，这些豪华酒店希望能吸引中国行列不断壮大的富有旅游者。
As economic growth has slowed in Europe and the United States, Asian locations now dominate lists of the current and projected hot spots for luxury hotel and resort growth. And Asia-based planners from leading luxury hotel groups say China, the world’s second-largest economy after the United States, is the regional priority.
随着欧洲和美国经济增长速度的放缓，在现有和预期的豪华酒店与度假村增长热点名单上，亚洲的地点如今已占主导地位。主要豪华酒店集团驻亚洲的规划人士表示，中国则是亚洲的重点，因为中国是全球第二大经济体，仅在美国之后。
“There are several hot spots there because China is so massive,” said David Spooner, vice president of sales and marketing at Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts, which opened Lijiang’s first international-standard luxury property in 2006. And China’s luxury sector is flourishing because “a growing market of Chinese travelers is much more sophisticated,” Mr. Spooner said.
“这里有好几个热点景点，因为中国太大了，”悦榕庄(Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts)负责市场营销的副总裁戴维·斯普纳(David Spooner)说。2006年，悦榕庄开办了丽江首家国际标准的豪华酒店。斯普纳表示，中国的豪华消费行业正在蓬勃发展，因为“正在增长的中国旅游市场的水平在提高”。
In April, 253 of the 458 branded luxury hotel projects under construction or in the final planning stages were in the Asia-Pacific region, according to STR Global, a hotel research company.
据酒店研究公司STR Global的数据，4月份在建或处于最后规划阶段的458个豪华品牌酒店项目中，253个项目在亚太地区。
And of all such Asia-Pacific projects — branded and independent, and across all economic categories — 58 percent were in China, the company said.
该公司称，所有亚太地区项目，包括品牌酒店的、也包括独立酒店的覆盖所有价位的项目中，有58%在中国。
Top-end hotel brands say they also are expanding in India’s cities and southwestern region, and that there is considerable talk about Sri Lanka and Myanmar, countries where, until recently, unrest and political issues had limited international travel.
高端品牌酒店表示，他们也在印度的城市以及西南亚太地区扩张，而且还有越来越多的人开始谈论斯里兰卡和缅甸的地点。直到最近，这两个国家的动荡和政治问题限制了它们在国际旅游市场的发展。
“Myanmar, at least medium to long term, has the potential to be a top tourism destination that could rival Thailand,” said Michel Van der Hoeven, senior vice president of projects and development at Anantara Hotels, Resorts and Spas, a luxury hotel group based in Bangkok with properties in Asia and the Middle East. “It has amazing culture, it has natural beauty, it has heritage — what’s lacking there is good-quality properties.”
“至少从中长期来看，缅甸有成为首选旅游目的地的潜力，能与泰国竞争，”总部位于曼谷且在亚洲和中东均有酒店分布的豪华酒店集团安纳塔拉豪华度假酒店(Anantara Hotels,Resorts and Spas)项目发展高级副总裁何文(Michel Van der Hoeven)说。“缅甸有神奇的文化、自然风光和遗产，那里缺的是优质酒店。”
Myanmar has just two luxury hotels, both in Yangon: the Governor’s Residence, an Orient-Express property, and The Strand, which is operated by Myanmar Hotels International, a joint venture of the government’s Tourism Ministry and Strand Hotels International.
缅甸现在只有两家豪华酒店，都在仰光：东方快车(Orient-Express)旗下的总督官邸酒店(Governor’s Residence)、以及缅甸酒店国际公司(Myanmar Hotels International)经营的斯特兰德酒店(The Strand)。缅甸酒店国际公司是由缅甸政府的旅游部(Tourism Ministry)和斯特兰德酒店国际集团(Strand Hotels International)共同成立的合资企业。
But several high-end resorts in Bagan in central Myanmar could qualify as luxury properties, said Jonas Ogren, Asia director at STR Global. And industry specialists say Myanmar’s undeveloped islands offer immense potential, although construction is likely to be several years away at best.
不过，STR Global亚洲区总监乔纳斯·厄格伦(Jonas Ogren)表示，缅甸中部蒲甘的几个高端度假村也可以算是豪华酒店。业界专业人士表示，缅甸的一些尚未开发的岛屿具有巨大的潜力，不过那些地方的建设项目最早也是几年以后的事情。
They also say that destinations in Bhutan and Laos are beginning to attract interest among luxury hotel groups, as are Seoul, Kuala Lumpur and undeveloped islands in Indonesia and the Philippines.
他们还表示，不丹和老挝也开始吸引豪华酒店集团的兴趣，同样有吸引力的还有首尔和吉隆坡、以及印度尼西亚和菲律宾的未开发岛屿。
But the industry’s primary focus is on China.
但业内的注意力最主要地集中在中国。
“China is obviously a key market for us,” said Chris Hart, president of Asia-Pacific hotel operations at Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts. “I think eventually we will have as many hotels in China as we do in the United States.”
“中国显然是我们的重要市场，”四季酒店集团(Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts)亚太区酒店营运总裁何瑞思(Chris Hart)说，“我想我们在中国的酒店数量最终将和在美国的一样多。”
The group, which manages 31 properties in the United States, now has five in mainland China, with a sixth to open this year in Shenzhen and another under construction in Tianjin, a city of 10 million southeast of Beijing.
四季酒店集团目前在美国经营着31家酒店，在中国大陆有5家，第6家将于今年在深圳开业，另外一家在建酒店位于有1000万人口的天津，天津位于北京的东南。
Mr. Hart said Four Seasons, which is based in Toronto, was expanding across China partly to expose its citizens to the brand and encourage them to stay in other Four Seasons properties.
何瑞思表示，总部位于多伦多的四季酒店集团在中国全国扩张，部分是为了让中国民众了解这个品牌，鼓励他们入住其他地方的四季酒店。
The number of annual overseas trips by Chinese travelers rose to 83 million last year from 10 million in 2000, according to the United Nations World Tourism Organization. And their 2012 spending on international tourism — $102 billion — helped China overtake Germany to become the world’s largest source of tourism spending.
根据联合国世界旅游组织(United Nations World Tourism Organization)的数据，中国游客年度境外游次数已从2000年的1000万人次增至去年的8300万人次。2012年，中国游客在国际旅游上的消费为1020亿美元（约合6256亿元人民币），中国也因此取代德国，成为世界上最大的旅游花销来源国。
“We want to be their first choice when they go on vacation, whether to the Maldives or to Paris or New York,” Mr. Hart said.
何瑞思说，“我们希望成为他们度假的首选，不管他们是去马尔代夫、巴黎还是纽约。”
While Beijing and Shanghai already have well-developed luxury hotel markets, they still can accommodate more growth — especially boutique properties with 80 to 150 rooms, said Damien Little, Asia director at Horwath HTL, an international hotel and tourism consulting firm.
国际酒店和旅游业咨询公司浩华管理顾问公司(Horwath HTL)的亚洲总监李达明(Damien Little)表示，尽管北京和上海的豪华酒店市场已经发展得很好了，但这两个城市仍有提供更多的增长空间，尤其是那些客房数在80至150之间的精品酒店。
Mr. Little said luxury hotels already operated in Hangzhou and Suzhou, coastal destinations that appeal to tourists with a picturesque lake and traditional gardens, respectively.
李达明说，豪华酒店已经在杭州和苏州营业，这两个城市都是沿海的旅游胜地，分别以风景如画的西湖和传统的园林吸引着游客们。
And some luxury brands — including Mandarin Oriental, Ritz-Carlton and Kempinski — are operating in Sanya, a tropical resort destination on Hainan Island in the South China Sea that has been developing for more than 20 years.
一些豪华品牌酒店，包括文华东方(Mandarin Oriental)、丽思卡尔顿(Ritz-Carlton)和凯宾斯基(Kempinski)，都已经在三亚经营，三亚是南海的海南岛上的度假胜地，开发已有20多年。
But when it comes to luxury and midrange hotels, “much of China’s development has been urban-related, and Sanya’s really the only significant leisure/resort destination that’s developed to any great scale in the last decade,” Mr. Little said.
不过，谈到豪华和中档酒店时，李达明说，“中国大多数的发展一直都与城市有关，三亚是真正的以休闲度假为主的目的地，其大规模的发展主要在过去十年里。”
The lure of China’s wealth now has major luxury brands wading into second-tier cities that are not typically regarded as tourist magnets. Ritz-Carlton, for example, is planning to open hotels soon in Tianjin as well as Chengdu, a city of 14 million in Sichuan Province in the southwest. And Fairmont and Kempinski will soon be established in Taiyuan, the capital of Shanxi, a northern province known for coal mines.
中国财富的诱惑，现在已让主要豪华品牌酒店涉足二线城市，这类城市通常并不被视为旅游热点。例如，丽思卡尔顿很快就将在天津和成都开店，后者是中国西南部的四川省的一座拥有1400万人口的城市。而费尔蒙特(Fairmont)和凯宾斯基很快将在太原开店，这座城市是以煤矿著名的北部省份山西省的省会。
Andrew Hirst, Asia operations manager at Mandarin Oriental, said luxury hotels in China’s second-tier cities were beginning to cater to leisure travelers as well as those on business trips. As the economy grows, people are “getting wealthy and wanting to enjoy the better things in life,” he said.
文华东方的亚洲业务经理韩竣宇(Andrew Hirst)说，中国二线城市的豪华酒店在吸引商务旅行者的同时，也已经开始迎合休闲旅游者。他说，随着经济的发展，人们“变得更富裕，而且想享受更好的生活”。
China’s scenic areas and hot springs are said to be promising destinations for luxury brands. Mr. Little of Horwath HTL said that Yunnan and Sichuan provinces in the southwest were the primary locations in that emerging market.
据称，中国的风景区和温泉点正成为对豪华品牌酒店有吸引力的目的地。浩华管理顾问公司的李达明说，西南部的云南和四川省在这一新兴市场中占主导。
In Yunnan, Banyan Tree operates two resorts and is planning to open two more next year. Aman and St. Regis say they plan to open their first Lijiang locations in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Anantara opened in southern Yunnan in February.
在云南，悦榕庄经营着两家度假酒店，并计划在未来两年里再开张两家。阿曼(Aman)和圣瑞吉斯(St. Regis)说，它们分别计划在2013年和2014年在丽江开张自己的第一家酒店。一家安娜塔拉(Anantara)酒店已于2月在云南南部开张。
When Banyan Tree Lijiang opened in 2006, 80 to 90 percent of its guests were international tourists, but since 2008 more than 70 percent have been wealthy Chinese, many of them business executives and their relatives from major coastal cities, said the hotel manager, Jeff Wang.
丽江悦榕庄经理王文昌(Jeff Wang)说，2006年开张时，80%到90%的客人都是外国游客，但自2008年以来，超过70%的客人是中国富人，其中许多人是来自沿海城市的商界高管及其亲属。
The resort, which includes 84 villas and 42 suites, is in a walled compound on the city’s unassuming outskirts and was built mostly from stone. The interiors are decorated in bold reds and blacks — in keeping with the vernacular architecture of the Naxi, a local ethnic minority group.
这家度假酒店位于不起眼的城市郊区，是一个由墙围起来的院落，里面有84栋别墅和42所套房，大部分用石头建造。内部以醒目的红色和黑色装饰，这与当地少数民族纳西族的民间建筑色调一致。
On a recent Sunday evening, the grounds were quiet as Zhang Gang, a construction executive from Zhuhai, a city near Macau on China’s southern coast, ordered mushroom soup at one of the resort’s restaurants.
在最近一个周日的傍晚，这里很安静，来自珠海的建筑界高管张刚（音译）在这家度假酒店的一间餐厅里点了蘑菇汤。珠海是一座靠近澳门的中国南部沿海城市。
Mr. Zhang, 40, said he would much rather pay 18,365 renminbi, or $3,000, per night for a Banyan Tree villa than stay in Lijiang’s touristy Old Town and endure 4,290 renminbi-per-night hotels, which he said were cramped and noisy.
40岁的张刚说，他宁愿每晚花18365元人民币，住一栋悦榕庄别墅，也不愿意在游客众多的丽江古镇忍受每晚4290元的酒店客房，他说那里拥挤且吵闹。
“They weren’t my style, but here I feel at peace,” he said in an empty dining room. The view was of an open-air pagoda framing the snow-capped peaks of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, Lijiang’s signature landscape feature.
“那不是我喜欢的风格，在这里我感觉很平和，”他在这个空空的餐厅中说。从餐厅看出去，是一座露天的佛塔，衬托着玉龙雪山白雪覆盖的山峰，玉龙雪山是丽江的标志性景观。
Mr. Zhang said he expected the resort to prosper as the Chinese elite became even wealthier, in part because Lijiang was an appealing destination for avid golfers like himself. His only complaint was that Banyan Tree had no locations in North America, where he owns a second home and often travels on business.
张刚说，随着中国精英阶层变得更加富有，他估计这家度假酒店会更加兴旺，这部分是因为丽江对于像他这样的狂热高尔夫球手来说极具吸引力。他唯一的不满是，悦榕庄在北美没有分店，他在北美拥有第二套住宅并经常去那里出差。