Olympic officials said Sunday that all Russian athletes were tainted by the country’s state-run doping system and would not be allowed to compete in the Rio Games unless they convinced individual sports federations of their innocence.
国际奥林匹克官员周日表示，俄罗斯所有运动员都受到了由国家主导的兴奋剂体系的影响，除非能让各体育联合会相信他们的清白，否则不得参加里约奥运会。
With just 12 days remaining before the Rio Games begin, the International Olympic Committee said in a statement that “all Russian athletes seeking entry to the Olympic Games Rio 2016 are considered to be affected by a system subverting and manipulating the anti-doping system.”
在离里约奥运会开幕仅剩12天之际，国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)在声明中表示，“所有希望参加2016年里约奥运会的俄罗斯运动员，均被认为受到了一个破坏并操纵反兴奋剂制度的体系的影响。”
The showdown between Russia and Olympics officials was rich with intrigue beyond the playing fields in Rio de Janeiro. President Vladimir Putin had suggested the doping allegations were politically motivated and meant to undermine Russia’s standing in the world. The Olympics’ top leaders were under pressure to expel a country that had a powerful sports presence on the global stage but had perpetrated one of the most expansive doping programs in history, compromising the integrity of the games.
俄罗斯和奥委会官员之间的对决充满复杂的情节，超越了里约热内卢的赛场。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)称兴奋剂指控是出于政治动机，为的是动摇俄罗斯在世界上的地位。国际奥委会的高层官员则面临着取消俄罗斯整体参赛资格的压力。俄罗斯在全球体育界实力强大，但却开展了属于历史上范围最广之列的兴奋剂项目，破坏了奥运会的诚信。
In the end, Russian officials received a reprieve, in their view. The Russian flag and at least some of the country’s athletes will be part of the Rio Olympics.
最终，在俄罗斯官员看来，他们获得了一线生机。俄罗斯国旗和该国的至少部分运动员会出现在里约奥运会上。
Anti-doping officials and some athletes had lobbied publicly for a blanket ban on the entire Russian delegation. Anything short of that, they argued, was too soft a sanction for behavior that the Olympic committee president, Thomas Bach, had called a “shocking new dimension in doping” with an “unprecedented level of criminality.”
反兴奋剂官员和一些运动员公开游说，希望全面禁止整个俄罗斯代表团参赛。他们认为，若做不到这一点，任何制裁对相关行为来说都嫌太轻。国际奥委会主席托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)称这些行为是“兴奋剂领域骇人的新维度”，“犯罪程度空前”。
“This may not please everybody on either side,” Bach said Sunday, repeating his desire to balance “the individual justice to which every human being is entitled” with collective punishment.
“这可能无法让两方中任何一方的所有人高兴，”巴赫周日说。他重申，自己希望在“每个人享有的个人公正”与集体惩罚之间取得平衡。
With the opening ceremony in Rio de Janeiro scheduled for Aug. 5, the implications of the Olympic decision may be muddy, with governing bodies for various sports taking on the complicated task of scrutinizing hundreds of athletes in less than two weeks. Many of the organizations are ill-equipped to handle such a process.
奥运会开幕式定于8月5日在里约热内卢举行。奥委会此番决定的影响可能并不明确，因为各项运动的管理机构要承担起在不到两周的时间里仔细审核数百名运动员这项复杂的任务。其中很多机构设备不全，难以进行这样的程序。
Russia’s minister of sport, Vitaly Mutko, expressed confidence that a “majority” of Russian athletes would meet the criteria. Mutko himself, however, will not attend the Rio Games, after Olympic officials said last week that no employee of Russia’s Sports Ministry would be welcome.
俄罗斯体育部长维塔利·穆特科(Vitaly Mutko)表达了对“多数”俄罗斯运动员符合标准的信心。然而，穆特科自己并不会出席里约奥运会。国际奥委会的官员上周表示，不欢迎俄罗斯体育部的工作人员。