Notes were scrawled across palms. Marked-up answer sheets were filled with suspicious adjustments. Exams were mysteriously missing pages.
手掌上写满了笔记。已经填好的答题卡到处是可疑的调整。试卷神秘地丢失了几页。
It might sound like a middle-school math test gone wrong, but it’s a fresh scandal in the Olympic world, implicating as many as 60 experts involved in, of all things, rhythmic gymnastics. The suspected cheats included the test takers who were looking to qualify as official judges as well as their exam proctors.
听起来就是一场失控的中学数学考试，但这实际上是奥林匹克世界里一桩最近被曝光的丑闻，有60名专家被牵涉其中，而且居然是关于艺术体操的。作弊嫌疑者包括想要成为官方裁判的考生以及他们的监考员。
Rhythmic gymnastics is a much-maligned competition that every four years tends to elicit the same reaction from American viewers -- That’s a sport? -- as they watch pint-size women swirl acrobatically with hoops and ribbons. With its sparkles and hair scrunchies, Rhythmic, as it is called by its followers, can look more like modern dance-meets-small town circus than a traditional Olympic competition.
艺术体操是一项饱受诟病的比赛，每隔四年都会引发美国观众的同样反应，当他们看到身材短小的女性拿着圆圈和丝带杂耍般地旋转时会说，“这也算体育？”带着闪光饰物和发带的艺术体操被爱好者称为“韵律”体操，看上去更像是现代舞加上小镇马戏团，而不是传统奥林匹克竞技。
The suspected cheating occurred late last year in testing rooms across Europe, where test takers looked to qualify for elite competition like the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro. The International Gymnastics Federation, known as F.I.G., spent months investigating the episode. Much of their findings, spanning hundreds of pages, were obtained by The New York Times.
去年年底欧洲各地的考场都发生了疑似作弊事件，考生在那里争夺参加2016年里约热内卢奥运会等精英比赛的资格。国际体操联合会（International Gymnastics Federation，简称FIG）花了数月时间来调查这一事件。厚达几百页的调查结果有许多已被《纽约时报》获得。
The documents showed that in Bucharest, Romania, test takers clearly copied answers from one anothers’ papers, including the mistakes. In Moscow, 114 answers were changed on dozens of tests; in Alicante, Spain, 257 answers were changed.
文件显示出，在罗马尼亚布加勒斯特的考生显然互相抄袭了答案，包括错误。在莫斯科，几十份试卷中有114个答案被改动过；在西班牙阿利坎特，有257个答案被改动过。
The exam sheets themselves served as evidence of the suspected cheating — crude markups, blatant copying, unexplained bonus points — that proved as clumsy as a botched rhythmic routine.
考试卷本身就可以作为作弊嫌疑的证据，包括粗糙的改动、明目张胆的抄袭和无法解释的加分，手段拙劣就像一场演砸了的体操表演。
One test clearly had been touched by more than one person — it was filled with at least two different handwriting styles, the report said. The documents provided no evidence that the suspected cheating had affected any results in athletic competitions.
报告称，一份试卷显然被不止一个人动过，那上面有至少两种不同的笔迹。文件没有提供证据证明这些作弊嫌疑对哪一场体育竞赛的结果构成了影响。
Judging scandals have upended high-profile sports like figure skating and gymnastics before, but this possible cheating episode serves as a reminder that even in the confines of obscure sports, the competition is every bit as cutthroat.
在花样滑冰和体操之类热门体育运动中，裁判丑闻是层出不穷的，然而这起可能的作弊事件提醒人们，即便是在默默无闻的项目中，竞争的尔虞我诈也是毫不含糊的。
The fallout has been swift, with one top Olympics official already expelled and six others suspended. They include Caroline Hunt of the United States, along with officials from Egypt, Japan and Russia. Dozens of judges who took the tests have been implicated and questioned by F.I.G. investigators.
事后处理相当迅速，一名高级奥林匹克官员已经离职，其他六人被停职。他们包括来自美国的卡罗琳·亨特(Caroline Hunt)，以及来自埃及、日本和俄罗斯的官员。几十名参与考试的裁判被卷入其中，并受到了国际体联调查员的盘问。
Ms. Hunt, the American official who was suspended, plans to appeal the punishment. Her lawyer did not respond to a request for comment, but United States gymnastics officials issued a statement in support of her, saying that the group “recognizes her integrity and commitment to fair play.”
被停职的美国官员亨特正打算上诉。她的律师没有回应记者的置评请求，但美国体操官方发表了一份支持她的声明，称该组织“认同她的正直和对公平比赛的承诺”。
“This sport is very ill,” said Erik Moers of the Czech Republic, a longtime judge who did not take the suspicious tests and has not been tied to the suspected cheating. “It’s poisoned from head to toe.”
捷克共和国的埃里克·默尔斯(Erik Moers)长期担任裁判，他并未参加受到质疑的考试，也没有作弊嫌疑。“这项运动真是病入膏肓，”默尔斯说，“它从头到脚都中了毒。”
A job judging at the Olympics and other elite competitions is a coveted perch. As the rhythmic gymnasts compete to see who can twist their limbs into the most elaborate pretzel — while climbing through a hoop — so too do the judges spar in their own way.
奥运会和其他精英比赛上的裁判工作可谓是令人垂涎的肥差。当艺术体操运动员在穿越圆圈，比试谁能把自己的四肢扭曲成最精致的椒盐卷饼时，裁判们也在以自己的方式斗争。
“If their eyes were guns, they’d kill each other,” Mr. Moers said. Mr. Moers has become perhaps the sport’s most vocal critic. Earlier this year, he started a petition calling to “ban unfair judging and corruption from our beloved sport.”
“如果眼睛能当枪使，他们早就杀开了，”默尔斯说。默尔斯可能已经成了这项运动最直言不讳的批评者。今年年初，他开展了一次请愿活动，呼吁“在我们热爱的这项体育运动中，禁止不公平的判决和腐败”。
He describes the world of rhythmic gymnastics as one as rife with cronyism as it is with colorful sequins. The sanctions, which were made public last week, have in some ways validated his claims.
他说，艺术体操世界里的偏袒现象之普遍，就和体操服上五彩缤纷的亮片一样多。上周公布的这些处罚，在某种程度上证实了他的断言。
Investigators found that Maria Szyszkowska of Poland, the former president of the F.I.G. rhythmic gymnastics technical committee, interfered with the computer program that calculated the scores. As a result, Mrs. Szyszkowska was stripped of her membership and prohibited from “any form of participation in all F.I.G. events and activities.”
调查员发现，国际体联艺术体操技术委员会前主席，波兰的玛丽亚·希什科夫斯卡(Maria Szyszkowska)曾对计算分数的电脑程序进行干预。结果，希什科夫斯卡被剥夺了会员身份，并被禁止“以任何形式参与国际体联的赛事和活动”。
Her lawyer, Sébastien Besson, issued a statement to F.I.G. officials denying any wrongdoing. He argued that bonus points awarded were not arbitrary and followed common practice. He called the missing answer sheets “obviously regretful, but nobody knows what happened.”
她的律师塞巴斯蒂安·贝森(Sébastien Besson)向国际体联官员发表了一份声明，否认曾做出任何不当行为。他辩称，并没有随意给出加分，而是照惯例行事。他说丢失答卷“显然令人遗憾，但没人知道发生了什么”。
Mr. Besson declined to comment for this article.
贝森拒绝对本文置评。
The suspected cheating episode is not the first scandal to hit the sport. After the European Championships in Zaragoza in 2000, the F.I.G. suspended six judges for discriminating against a Ukrainian gymnast. Other sports have endured their own judging misconduct as well, including incidents that affected competitions. Ice skating has long been troubled with cronyism and vote-swapping, and troubling incidents marred the 2002 Salt Lake Games, as well as the 1998 Games in Nagano, Japan.
作弊嫌疑事件并非这项运动的第一个丑闻。在2000年萨拉戈萨举行的欧洲艺术体操锦标赛结束后，将六名裁判停职，因为他们歧视对待了一名乌克兰体操运动员。其他体育项目也有过不当评判行为，其中一些事件还影响了比赛结果。例如，滑冰一直受到裙带关系和选票交易的困扰，在2002年盐湖城冬奥会和1998年日本长野冬奥会上都出现了恶性事件。
But the F.I.G. is determined to address the recent episode and move forward. The six members of the technical committee who were suspended will not be allowed to oversee judges at any competition.
但是国际体联决心，在继续发展该项运动之前，要对最近的事件进行处理。技术委员会中这六名被停职的会员将被禁止在任何比赛中担任裁判。
As for the tests, they will be offered again, this time in Frankfurt. Senior rhythmic gymnastics officials will be on hand to ensure that the tests “are conducted in due and proper fashion.”
至于考试，他们将再进行一次，这次是在法兰克福。艺术体操高层官员将会到场，以确保考试“是以合规、正确的方式进行的”。