The shopping bags seen on the streets of Shanghai will have a lot of new logos come this winter.
今年冬天，在上海的大街上，你会看到很多打着新商标的购物袋。
This cosmopolitan city, mainland China's fashion capital, already has marked the opening of 10 Corso Como Shanghai, the third outpost — after Seoul and Tokyo — of the celebrated concept store in Milan.
继首尔和东京之后，米兰著名的概念店10 Corso Como在上海这座国际都市、中国内地的时尚之都开设了第三家分店。
In October, Lane Crawford, Hong Kong's oldest department store, will unveil its 14,000-square-meter, or 150,000-square-foot, flagship store in Shanghai. And Value Retail, Europe's most successful luxury fashion outlet operator, will open Suzhou Village just an hour outside the city, where off-season designer fashion will be available at a discount.
今年10月，香港历史最悠久的商场连卡佛(Lane Crawford)将在上海揭幕其1.4万平方米（合15万平方英尺）的旗舰店。欧洲最成功的奢侈时装批发商Value Retail将在离上海1小时车程的苏州打造“苏州村”，过季的名牌服装将在这里打折销售。
All three operations say Shanghai is important to their growth in mainland China, and understanding the Chinese shopper will be vital to their success.
这三家公司都说上海对他们在中国内地的发展十分重要，也明白中国消费者对他们的成功至关重要。
Currently, "60 percent of all luxury goods are purchased overseas, as imported goods are much more expensive at home," said Elizabeth Flora, editor of the China luxury information Web site Jing Daily. She noted that Beijing's current antigraft campaign had affected some retail sectors commonly associated with "gifting" to officials but that it had not touched fashion.
中国奢侈品信息网站“精日传媒”的编辑富沙白(Elizabeth Flora)说，目前“60%的奢侈品是在海外购买的，因为国内的进口商品要贵得多”。她提到政府目前的反贪行动对于给官员“送礼”有关的零售业有影响，但是对时装业没有影响。
"China takes time and patience," said Andrew Keith, president of Lane Crawford. "It's very different to Hong Kong, and is a myriad of markets and has cultural and physical diversity you would see in a continent like Europe."
“中国需要你的时间和耐心，”连卡佛总裁安德鲁·基思(Andrew Keith)说，“它跟香港很不同，这里有数不清的市场，有你在欧洲这样的大陆看到的那种文化和物质多样性。”
Amid the bustle of Nanjing West Road, Shanghai's busiest pedestrian shopping street, 10 Corso Como's 2,500-square-meter, glass-enclosed building is an imposing addition.
在上海最热闹的步行购物街南京西路上，10 Corso Como占地2500平方米的玻璃大楼是个壮观的新建筑。
Designed by the American artist Kris Ruhs, the airy, four-level space combines a fashion and lifestyle boutique, an art gallery and a restaurant, all curated by the company's founder, the art dealer and publisher Carla Sozzani.
这个宽敞的四层空间由美国艺术家克里斯·鲁斯(Kris Ruhs)设计，包括一个时装和生活方式精品店、一个艺术馆和一个餐馆——这些都是由该公司的创始人、艺术商和出版人卡拉·索珊尼(Carla Sozzani)策划的。
The store, which opened last week, allows customers to shop for designs like clothing by Comme des Garçons and Maison Martin Margiela, limited-edition Adidas sneakers by Tom Dixon, kitchen accessories by Alessi and furniture by Fornasetti; view a pop-up art exhibition; or have coffee.
在这家上周开幕的店里，顾客可以买到川久保玲(Comme des Garçons)和马丁·马吉拉时装屋(Maison Martin Margiela)等品牌的服装、汤姆·迪克森(Tom Dixon)设计的限量版阿迪达斯运动鞋以及艾烈希(Alessi)牌厨房用具和Fornasetti牌家具，观看艺术展览，或者喝咖啡。
"Shanghai's vibrant art and fashion scene is an ideal location," said Sozzani, who opened 10 Corso Como in Milan in 1990. "I love the proximity to Jing'an Temple and a park. It is a nice balance of modernity and tradition."
“上海的艺术和服装产业十分活跃，所以它是个完美的地点，”索珊尼说。1990年，她在米兰开创了10 Corso Como概念店。“这家店离静安寺和一个公园很近，我很喜欢这一点。因为它在现代和传统之间实现了美妙的平衡。” 
Noriko Villanti, business director of the Shanghai store, said there was no difference between its operation and that of the Milan original: "Everything is selected by Carla, in the same way Kris Ruhs's signature is reflected in every piece of furniture, wall or lighting fixture."
上海店的商务总监诺里克·维兰蒂(Noriko Villanti)说，该店的运营与米兰本店的运营没有不同。“所有的东西都是卡拉挑选的，就像克里斯·鲁斯的特点体现在每件家具、墙壁和灯光效果上一样。”
"However, in the future we'd like to work with Chinese designers, which will be a distinctive trait of 10 Corso Como in Shanghai," Villanti continued. "Our destination is essentially a curated space for experiences; a cultural investigation among the galleries, where customers are encouraged to meet and engage in a wide variety of ideas."
“但是，未来我们想跟中国设计师合作，那将成为10 Corso Como上海店的一个特色，”维兰蒂继续说道，“我们的店从本质上讲是一个精心策划的体验场所，是对各种画廊的一个文化调研，我们鼓励顾客们在这里接触并体验各种各样的想法。”
The project is backed by Trendy International Group, a fast-growing Chinese retail operator partly owned by the L Capital division of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton. Trendy also owns the women's fashion brand Miss Sixty.
该项目得到了赫基国际集团(Trendy International Group)的支持，该集团是一个快速成长的中国零售运营商，部分属于路威酩轩集团的L Capital分部。赫基集团还拥有女装品牌Miss Sixty。
"Shanghai is the major fashion market in China," said Andre Chen, senior vice president at Trendy. "Chinese consumers are moving fast, and they are looking for new and different experiences. Exceeding consumer expectations and desires is our challenge, and I think 10 Corso Como will be very successful."
“上海是中国一个主要的时装市场，”赫基集团的高级副总裁陈瑾瑜(Andre Chen)说，“中国客户在快速发展，他们在寻找新的、不同的体验。超越客户的期望和欲求是我们的目标，我觉得10 Corso Como会非常成功。”
If it is, he continued, "we will definitely open in Beijing and other key fashion cities."
他又说，如果上海店成功的话，“我们肯定会在北京和其他主要时尚城市开店。”
Also targeting fashion-forward customers will be Lane Crawford's store, scheduled to open in early October at Times Square Shanghai, in the business district of Huaihai Zhong Lu Shopping Street.
连卡佛的新店同样以追求时尚的顾客为目标，它计划10月初在位于淮海中路购物街商业区的上海时代广场开幕。
In contrast to 10 Corso Como's highly selective offerings, Lane Crawford Shanghai is billing itself as a platform for more than 500 fashion brands, including what it says is the largest beauty retail department in the mainland. The 3,000-square-meter area will have a hair salon and private cabins for beauty treatments.
与10 Corso Como的精挑细选不同，连卡佛上海店以拥有500多家时尚品牌为荣，它声称自己的化妆品零售部是中国内地最大的。这个3000平方米的区域将有一家发廊和很多美容保养私人隔间。
Niche designers like Thakoon, Jason Wu and Alexander Wang will headline the fashion selection, along with Givenchy and Balenciaga. There also will be a plethora of emerging Chinese designers like Liu Min, Christine Lau and Helen Lee, all of whom price their creations starting at several thousand renminbi.
塔库恩(Thakoon)、吴季刚(Jason Wu)和王大仁等亚裔设计师品牌将和纪梵希(Givenchy)和巴黎世家(Balenciaga)一起成为重点宣传的时装品牌。另外还有很多中国新兴设计师，比如刘敏、刘清扬和李鸿雁——这些设计师的服装定价都在几千元人民币以上。 
"It's bigger than any store we've ever done," Keith said. "In terms of merchandising, Lane Crawford is unique," with Greater China's largest range of designers and accessories as well as collaborations on exclusive designer products.
“它比我们以前的店铺都大，”基思说，“在产品促销方面，连卡佛是独一无二的。”它拥有的服装和配饰品牌在大中华区是最全的，并与一些专营设计品牌合作。
Customer service is of critical importance, Keith stressed. "The store will feature an area dedicated to V.I.P. customers, personal shopping suites where we offer personal stylists, lifestyle and cosmetic concierge, and private space for customers and their friends to spend time," he explained. "It's important that the people of Shanghai feel like it's their store — bring their friends and hang out."
基思强调说，客户服务至关重要。“该店将设立贵宾专区、私人购物套间——那里有私人造型师、生活方式和美容礼宾员——以及供顾客和他/她的朋友们共度时光的私人空间，”他解释说，“重要的是让上海人感觉到那是他们的店，愿意带朋友一起来闲逛。”
Statistics show that four out of five Chinese visitors to Britain stop at Bicester Village, the outlet shopping mall near Oxford, about an hour by train from London.
有数据显示，每五个去英国的中国游客中有四个会在比斯特村(Bicester Village)停留，那是牛津附近的一个批发购物中心，从伦敦乘火车至此大约需要一个小时。
With that in mind, Value Retail, which operates nine outlet malls in Western Europe, chose Suzhou, near Shanghai, for its first project outside its home region. It is scheduled to open in spring 2014, with a second location near the soon-to-be-built Shanghai Disneyland planned for 2015.
在西欧运营九家批发购物中心的Value Retail公司考虑到上述这种情况，选择上海附近的苏州，开设其大本营地区之外的第一家专营店。该店计划于2014年春天开业，第二家店计划开设在即将于2015年建成的上海迪斯尼乐园附近。
There are other outlet operations in China, like Lane Crawford's Surprise Outlet near Beijing Capital International Airport. But Suzhou Village's premium offering — already touted on a Web site that positions the village as a destination, offering help to travel professionals in 14 languages and international delivery of purchases — is expected to be a game changer.
中国还有其他一些批发中心，比如连卡佛在北京首都国际机场附近开设的斯普瑞斯奥特莱(Surprise Outlet)。但是苏州村提供的附加服务——它已经在网站上招揽到了一些以苏州村为目的地的顾客，并提供14种语言服务和国际货物递送——有可能改变游戏规则。
With its airy, open design and high-end brand mix, Bicester Village is the highest grossing shopping center in the world per square foot, with its 2013 revenue hovering around $3,500 per square foot, or $37,700 per square meter, before sales tax, according to Scott Malkin, chairman of Value Retail.
Value Retail的主席斯科特·马尔金(Scott Malkin)说，宽敞的比斯特村有很多高端品牌，是世界上最赚钱的购物中心，其2013年的税前年收入约为每平方英尺3500美元，约合每平方米37700美元。
Working in partnership with design houses like Gucci, Valentino, Ralph Lauren and others, Value Retail and its partner in China, SMG Retail, have invested $100 million in Phase 1 of Suzhou Village, which is to have more than 100 shops totaling 35,000 square meters.
Value Retail和它在中国的合作伙伴SMG零售公司与古驰(Gucci)、华伦天奴(Valentino)、拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)以及其他一些时装公司合作，在苏州村一期上投资了1亿美元。苏州村将拥有100多家专营店，总面积为3.5万平方米。
"Shanghai is the most important commercial city in China, and Suzhou, which is just an hour away, is a dominant internal tourism hub that receives 80 million visitors a year within China and three to four million foreign tourists," Malkin said. "We will be providing an experience in shopping tourism while allowing our brand partners to sell their surplus stock in a way that defines their brand and reaches aspirational customers."
“上海是中国最重要的商业城市，而离上海只有一小时车程的苏州是个重要的国内旅游目的地，每年接待8000万中国游客以及300万至400万外国游客，”马尔金说，“我们将提供一种购物旅游体验，并让我们的品牌合作伙伴们以一种既能体现品牌价值又能接触到潜在顾客的方式售出他们的存货。”
While Suzhou Village has not announced its occupants — which pay for their space with a percentage of sales, not rent — they reportedly include fashion houses like Valentino and Hugo Boss.
苏州村还没有公布它的租户——这些租户将上交一定比例的销售收入，而不是固定的租金——但是据说包括华伦天奴和雨果·波士(Hugo Boss)这样的时装公司。
The jeans giant Diesel says it will have a presence in Suzhou Village. "This outlet model works really well for us, because our customers at the outlets are different from those who visit our boutiques," said Christophe Archaimbault, president of Diesel Greater China. "They are paying 50 percent less for a pair of jeans at the outlet, and we reach a demographic who otherwise will not be spending with us."
牛仔裤巨头迪赛(Diesel)说它将在苏州村亮相。“奥特莱这种模式真的非常适合我们，因为奥特莱的顾客与我们精品店的顾客不同，”迪赛大中华区总裁克里斯多夫·阿尔尚博(Christophe Archaimbault)说，“他们在奥特莱买一条牛仔裤要省一半的钱，如果不是通过这种途径，这些顾客不会买我们的牛仔裤。”
All foreign brands pay import duty for goods entering China, making retail prices as much as 30 percent more than those in Europe or the United States, so the outlet village will be a way for brands to offload previous seasons' merchandise and recoup some of their costs.
所有的外国品牌进入中国都要支付进口税，这使得它们的零售价格比在欧洲或美国要高30%，所以奥特莱将给这些品牌提供一个途径来处理之前几季的商品，收回一部分成本。
"We've studied the consumer character of the Chinese, and the speed at which they are moving is unparalleled in the world towards high sophistication, new designs and fashion trends," said Malkin, the Value Retail chairman.
“我们研究过中国消费者的特点，他们向高端服装、新设计和时装潮流转变的速度在世界上是前所未有的，”Value Retail的主席马尔金说。
While all agree that Chinese consumer behavior is changing rapidly, it is still early to tell whether these new concepts will succeed.
虽然所有人都认同中国消费者的行为在快速改变，但是现在判断这些新概念是否会成功还为时过早。
Lane Crawford previously operated a store in Shanghai that was not successful and closed in 2006. But then it opened in Beijing in 2007.
连卡佛之前在上海开过一家店，但是不成功，2006年停业了。但是2007年它在北京又开了一家店。
"When we first opened in Shanghai, Lane Crawford operated as a franchise in Shanghai, Harbin and Hangzhou," Keith said. "We terminated our franchise agreements to open our own stores, take back our brand in order to roll out a new model better suited to the demands of the local market."
“我们第一次在上海开店的时候，我们是在上海、哈尔滨和杭州开设连卡佛特许加盟店，”基思说，“后来我们终止了特许经营协议，开设自己的店铺，收回了我们的品牌，以便采取一个新模式，更好地适应当地市场的需求。”
"We believe the market is now at a stage where consumers are ready and in need of the variety and services our business model offers: connected commerce in China, online store, physical locations with cross-channel servicing."
“我们认为市场已经发展到了一个新阶段，顾客们已经准备好接受我们的商业模式，也需要我们提供的多样化服务：在中国的相关商务、网店和拥有跨渠道服务的实体店。”