O’Connor, the $5.6 billion hedge fund owned by UBS, has been has been expanding its presence in Asia. It has hired traders from UBS’s proprietary trading desk to work in its Hong Kong and Singapore offices. In August, it hired John Yu, a former analyst at SAC Capital Advisors
瑞银(UBS)旗下拥有56亿美元资产的对冲基金奥康纳(O’Connor)一直在扩大亚洲业务。它聘请了瑞银自营交易部门的交易员加入其在香港和新加坡的办公室，并于今年8月挖来了前SAC资本顾问公司(SAC Capital Advisors)分析师约翰·余(John Yu)。
It is not alone. Bankers, brokerage firms and hedge funds have all been quietly expanding their Asian operations to take advantage of one event: the biggest opening into China in years.
奥康纳并不是孤例。众多银行家、经纪公司和对冲基金都在悄无声息地扩大亚洲业务，为的是抓住一个多年以来进入中国的最大机遇。
China plans to connect the Shanghai stock exchange to its counterpart in Hong Kong over the next month as part of an initiative announced by Premier Li Keqiang this year to open China’s markets to foreign investors who have been largely shut out.
中国计划于下个月建立上海证券交易所和香港证券交易所的互通机制，这是李克强总理今年宣布的一项计划的一部分，该计划旨在向此前基本上被拒之门外的境外投资者开放中国市场。
The move will allow foreign investors to trade the shares of companies listed on the Shanghai stock exchange directly for the first time, and Chinese investors to buy shares in companies listed in Hong Kong.
此举将允许外国投资者首次直接交易在上海证券交易所上市的股票，并允许内地投资者购买港股。
The potential rewards of an open market between the mainland and Hong Kong are enormous for investors. Currently, the only way for foreign investors to trade Chinese stocks is indirectly through a limited quota program that allows a trickle of foreign money into the country.
对于投资者来说，内地和香港间的开放市场或将带来巨大的回报。目前，外国投资者交易中国股票的唯一办法是通过一个有限的配额制度，该制度允许少量外国资本进入中国。
“This is the single most important development in China’s intention to internationalize this market,” one senior Western banker in Asia said of the planned reform, speaking on the condition he not be named because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.
“这毫无疑问是中国股市国际化进程中的最重要进展，”一名驻亚洲的西方高级银行家提到这项改革计划时说。因为无权公开评论此事，这名银行家要求不具名。
The program, called the Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect, will create the second-largest equity market in the world in terms of the market value of the combined listed companies, said Dawn Fitzpatrick, the chief investment officer of O’Connor.
奥康纳首席投资官唐·菲茨帕特里克(Dawn Fitzpatrick)说，这个被称作“沪港通”的项目，将催生全球上市公司市值总和第二大的证券市场。
“It is also going to create a much more efficient way for the global marketplace to value many Chinese companies, and this attribute alone makes the market more attractive,” she added.
“它还将为全球市场评估许多中国企业提供更有效的方法，单是这一点就会让这个市场更加具有吸引力，”她接着说。
The formal starting date for the program has not been announced, but officials have been aiming for sometime next month. Employees at brokerage firms across Hong Kong have been working extra weekend shifts since August, participating in mock trading sessions to test their readiness for the new program. On one recent weekend, 97 brokerage firms accounting for about 80 percent of the trading turnover in the Hong Kong market simulated a failure of their backup data systems for the Shanghai-Hong Kong two-way trade.
项目的正式启动日期尚未宣布，但官方的计划是下个月的某个时候。今年8月以来，香港各大经纪公司的雇员都在周末加班加点，参加模拟交易日的活动，测试针对这个新项目的筹备工作。不久前的一个周末，交易量占香港股市80%的97家经纪公司模拟了针对沪港双向交易的备份数据系统的故障。
O’Connor, for its part, is among a small group of hedge funds that have already participated in the quota program, named the qualified foreign institutional investors program. They buy and sell shares denominated in both renminbi and Hong Kong dollars.
奥康纳本身已是少数参加上述配额项目的对冲基金之一，即所谓“合格境外机构投资者”。他们可以买卖以人民币和港元计价的股票。
The wide-open connection will allow hedge funds like O’Connor to expand their business between the two exchanges and trade directly.
沪港通项目将允许奥康纳这样的对冲基金扩大在这两个交易所之间的业务，并且直接进行交易。
Still, challenges remain, and some significant questions have not been answered.
不过，该项目仍然面临重重挑战，一些重要的问题也有待解答。
The program is part of a broader reform package announced by President Xi Jinping last year.
该项目是中国国家主席习近平去年宣布的一个更广泛改革方案的一部分。
Last September, regulators in Shanghai agreed to let a small group of United States and British hedge funds raise $50 million each from Chinese investors as part of a pilot program.
去年9月，作为一个试点项目的一部分，上海的监管机构曾允许美国和英国的少数对冲基金各自从中国投资者那里募集5000万美元的资金。
Linking the Hong Kong and Shanghai exchanges is not a new idea. In 2007, Hong Kong officials announced a similar plan to allow Chinese investors to gain access Hong Kong’s stock market. That plan never took off.
沪港股市互通并不是一个新概念。2007年，香港官员宣布了一个类似的方案，允许内地投资者进入香港股市。但该方案并未实施。
And while foreign and Chinese investors will have the chance to invest in hundreds of companies that were previously off limits, they will still be limited by quotas. The combined two-way trading volume will be capped at 23.5 billion renminbi ($3.8 billion), about 20 percent of the combined average daily trading volume on both markets. Individual mainland Chinese investors will need at least 500,000 renminbi in their brokerage account to buy Hong Kong shares, a threshold that excludes most retail investors.
尽管境外和内地的投资者将有机会投资数百家之前无法投资的公司，其投资额度仍然受限。双向交易总额的上限将为235亿元人民币（38亿美元），相当于两个市场日均交易总额的约20%。内地的个人投资者在经纪账户上必须至少有50万元人民币才能购买香港股票，这个门槛会将多数散户投资者拒之门外。
Foreign buyers of Shanghai stocks will not be able to buy shares and sell them on the same day. It is still unclear whether they will be allowed to buy shares using margin financing or to engage in short-selling. And, in another hurdle, all trades will be settled in renminbi, introducing additional risk for foreign investors.There are also unresolved issues over taxes. Foreign investors in mainland China’s stock markets are technically liable for paying capital gains taxes, but China has historically not taxed such investments under the existing quota scheme. It remains an open question whether that practice will change.
境外投资者将无法出售当日购买的上海股市的股票。目前还不清楚他们是否可以通过保证金融资或参与做空交易。此外，所有的交易都将以人民币结算，这就为境外投资者引入了额外的风险。税收方面也有尚未解决的问题。严格来说，内地的境外投资者需要缴纳资本利得税，但中国长期以来一直没有对现有配额制度下的此类投资征税。这种做法是否会发生变化仍需拭目以待。
Given these and other uncertainties, companies like MSCI — which compiles indexes that are tracked by funds with trillions of dollars invested in stocks around the world — have so far declined to include mainland Chinese shares in their indexes.
考虑到以上及其他种种不确定性，摩根士丹利资本国际公司(MSCI Inc.)等公司——它们编制的指数受到在全世界投资数万亿美元股票的基金公司的关注——一直拒绝将中国内地的股票纳入观察范围。
That could change as soon as next year, when MSCI is next scheduled to review Chinese shares.
这种情况最早将于明年发生改变，也就是MSCI下一次审核中国股票的时候。
“Were China’s domestic A-shares to be included in the MSCI benchmarks, it would be a game-changer, attracting billions of dollars of capital,” analysts at HSBC in Hong Kong wrote this month in a research report.
“如果中国国内的A股被纳入MSCI基准指数，将会为市场带来重大改变，吸引数十亿美元的资本，”汇丰银行(HSBC)驻香港分析师本月在一篇研究报告中写道。
Regardless, some investors are pushing ahead.
然而，一些投资机构仍然义无反顾。
Before he was hired by O’Connor, Mr. Yu was a China analyst at SAC, which since April has become a $10 billion family office called Point72 Asset Management. He will be based with O’Connor’s Asia team in Hong Kong. BlueCrest Capital Management, a hedge fund based in London, also recently hired several SAC traders.
在加入奥康纳前，约翰·余是SAC资本顾问公司的中国分析师。这家公司从4月份开始已经成为一家名为Point72资产管理(Point72 Asset Management)的家族办公室，掌管着100亿美元。约翰·余将在奥康纳驻香港的亚洲团队工作。伦敦的对冲基金BlueCrest资本管理公司最近也聘用了几名SAC的交易员。