The Ebola epidemic in West Africa is a tragedy. But, more than that, the response to it has been a gross failure.
埃博拉疫情在西非的蔓延是个悲剧。但更重要的是，全球对它做出反应已经成为一大败笔。
It’s a classic case where early action could have saved lives and money. Yet the world dithered, and with Ebola cases in Liberia now doubling every two to three weeks, the latest worst-case estimate from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is that there could be 1.4 million cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone by late January.
这是一个经典案例，说明及早采取行动本来可以挽救生命、节约资金。然而国际社会却犹豫不决。现在在利比里亚，每过两、三周，病例数量就会增加一倍，美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）对最坏情况做出了最新估计，称到明年1月，利比里亚和塞拉利昂的埃博拉病例数量可能将升至140万例。
We would never tolerate such shortsightedness in private behavior. If a roof leaks, we fix it before a home is ruined. If we buy a car, we add oil to keep the engine going. Yet in public policy — from education to global health — we routinely refuse to invest at the front end and have to pay far more at the back end.
在个人生活中，我们倒永远不会容忍这种短视行为。如果家里的屋顶漏水了，我们会在整所房子所被毁掉之前修好它。如果买了一辆车，我们就会给它加油，让发动机能够运行。然而，在公共政策方面——从教育到全球健康——我们经常拒绝在早期投入努力，结果拖到事态变得严重，我们不得不付出大得多的代价。
We know how to confront the Ebola virus. In Uganda, an excellent American-backed prevention initiative trained local health workers to recognize the virus and stop it from spreading, so, in 2011, an Ebola outbreak there stopped after just a single case.
我们并非不知道该如何控制埃博拉的蔓延。在乌干达，美国资助了一个出色的预防项目，训练当地卫生工作者识别这种病毒，并阻止它的蔓延，因此，在2011年，那里仅仅出现了一个埃博拉病例，它的蔓延就被阻断了。
We also know from our catastrophic mishandling of AIDS a generation ago — or the mishandling of cholera in Haiti more recently — that it’s imperative to stop infectious diseases early. Yet the reaction to the Ebola outbreak after it began in December in Guinea was a global shrug: It was mishandled by local countries and by the rest of the world, so, instead of a tiny cost in money and lives, we will now all pay hugely.
二三十年之前，我们用错误的方式应对艾滋病，带来了灾难；后来面对海地的霍乱疫情，我们也应对不当，从这些教训中，我们已经了解到，及早阻断传染性疾病的蔓延很有必要。然而对于去年12月在几内亚出现的埃博拉疫情，全球各国却都无动于衷：受灾国家和世界上其他国家都对此应对不当，因此，本来只会损失少量金钱和生命的疫情，将让我们付出巨大代价。
If the worst-case scenario comes to pass in West Africa, it may become endemic in the region and reach the West. Ebola is quite lethal but not particularly contagious, so it presumably wouldn’t cause an epidemic in countries with modern health systems. This entire tragedy is a failure of humanity.
西非如果出现最糟糕的局面，埃博拉可能会成为该地区的流行病，并影响到西方。埃博拉的死亡率很高，但感染性并不是特别强，所以在拥有现代卫生体系的国家中，它大概不会成为一种流行病。这个悲剧是全人类的失败。
As donor countries scramble to respond (which may cost $1 billion in the next six months, according to the United Nations, although nobody really knows), the risk is that they will raid pots of money intended for other vital purposes to assist the world’s needy. Jamie Drummond of the One campaign says he worries that governments may try to finance Ebola countermeasures with money that otherwise would buy childhood vaccines or ease emerging famines in Somalia and South Sudan.
一些国家开始争相响应，提供援助（根据联合国的统计，未来六个月可能将耗费10亿美元，不过没人知道到底需要多少），问题是，他们可能会把本来将投入其他重要解困济贫项目上的钱抽出来。慈善组织One campaign的杰米·德拉蒙德(Jamie Drummond)表示，他担心，一些政府可能会抽出钱来支援抗击埃博拉疫情，而这些钱本来是用于购买儿童疫苗，或缓解索马里和苏丹南部正在出现的饥荒的。
Vaccines are a bargain. Since 1990, vaccines and other simple interventions (such as treatments for diarrhea) have saved nearly 100 million children’s lives, according to Unicef. Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, is now in the middle of trying to raise an additional $7.5 billion to subsidize vaccinations of 300 million additional children around the world. On top of the $2 billion it has, Gavi says this would save 5 million to 6 million lives and produce economic benefits of $80 billion to $100 billion.
为儿童接种疫苗有很高的性价比。联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)的资料显示，1990年以来，疫苗和其他一些简单干预方式（比如对痢疾的治疗）挽救了近1亿名儿童的生命。全球疫苗免疫联盟(Gavi)现在正在努力筹集额外的75亿美元，以使全球各地的其他3亿儿童可以接种疫苗。全球疫苗免疫联盟说，加上它现有的20亿美元，这些钱可以挽救500万到600万儿童的生命，并产生800亿到1000亿美元的经济效益。
Such an investment should be a no-brainer. In the 21st century, we have the resources to fight more than one fire at a time.
我们当然应该进行这种投资，这是明摆着的事。在21世纪，我们有扑灭多场火灾的资源。
“I am worried,” said Seth Berkley, the chief executive of Gavi. “You wouldn’t want to reduce immunizing children around the world to deal with an emergency even as severe as Ebola.”
“我很担心，”全球疫苗免疫联盟的首席执行官塞思·伯克利博士(Seth Berkley)说，“就算是为了应对埃博拉疫情这样严重的紧急事件，你也不应该削减全球儿童的免疫投入。”
We invest vast sums to address national security risks that have a military dimension, hence President Obama’s decision to renovate the American nuclear arsenal at a cost that could reach $1 trillion over three decades. So let’s remember that infectious diseases can also constitute a national security threat.
对于具有军事性质的国家安全风险，我们会投入巨额资金来应对，就像奥巴马决定翻新美国的核武库，30年内的花费可能会高达1万亿美元。因此，我们不要忘记了，传染性疾病也可以对国家构成安全威胁。
Our shortsightedness afflicts so many areas of public policy. We spend billions of dollars fighting extremists today, but don’t invest tiny sums educating children or empowering women, even though that’s the strategy with a solid record of success at reducing extremism in the medium term — and even though we can finance at least 20 schools for the cost of deploying one soldier abroad for one year.
我们的短视行为，给众多公共政策领域造成了不良影响。如今我们花费数十亿美元来打击极端分子，但却没有在儿童教育或妇女赋权上投入哪怕是微不足道的金额，尽管从中期来看，后者在减少极端主义方面会取得可观的成功，而且在过去有着极其良好的记录。此外，我们在海外部署一名士兵一年的费用，至少可以资助20所学校。
At home, we don’t invest adequately in family-planning programs even though pregnancy prevention initiatives for at-risk teenagers pay for themselves many times over. We don’t invest in early education programs that have a robust record in reducing later criminal behavior, preferring instead to pay for prisons.
在国内，我们没有对避孕节育项目进行充分投入，尽管预防高危青少年怀孕的预防项目早就已经是物超所值的。我们也没在早期教育项目中投资，反而愿意在监狱上花钱，尽管已经有充分证据显示，早期教育项目有效地减少了生命晚些时候的犯罪行为。