WASHINGTON — Not long after a passenger jet exploded in midair and plummeted to the ground in Ukraine last week, escalating a volatile crisis pitting the United States and Europe against Russia, President Obama’s thoughts turned to Syria.
华盛顿——上周一架客机在空中爆炸并在乌克兰坠地，让美国和欧洲与俄罗斯反复无常的对抗升级，此后不久，美国总统奥巴马的心思转向了叙利亚。
The Malaysia Airlines flight seemed to have been shot down by a sophisticated Russian antiaircraft system provided to insurgents who mistook the airliner for a military transport. In a conversation with aides, the president said this was why he refused to send antiaircraft weapons to Syrian rebels. Once they are out of a government’s control, he said, the risk only grows.
那个马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的班机看来是被叛乱分子用俄罗斯提供给他们的先进防空系统击落的，他们把客机误以为军用运输机了。在与助手的对话中，美国总统说，这是他为什么拒绝向叙利亚反叛者提供防空武器的原因。他说，那种武器一旦离开了政府的控制，风险只会加大。
Rarely has a president been confronted with so many seemingly disparate foreign policy crises all at once — in Ukraine, Israel, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere — but making the current upheaval more complicated for Mr. Obama is the seemingly interlocking nature of them all. Developments in one area, like Ukraine, shape his views and choices in a crisis in another area, like the Middle East.
很少有总统一下子面临着这么多地方——乌克兰、以色列、叙利亚、伊拉克、阿富汗以及其他地方——出现看似不相干的外交政策危机，但对奥巴马来说，使目前的动荡更复杂的，是所有这些危机的看似环环相扣的性质。一个地区的事态发展，比如乌克兰，影响他对另一个地区危机的看法和选择，比如中东。
The crosscurrents can be dizzying. Even as Mr. Obama presses Russia to stop fomenting a virtual civil war in Ukraine, he is trying to collaborate with Moscow in a diplomatic campaign to force Iran to scale back its nuclear program. Even as he pressures Iran over its nuclear program, he finds himself on the same side as Tehran in combating a rising Sunni insurgency in Iraq. Even as he sends special forces to help squelch those insurgents, he is trying to help their putative allies against the government in Syria next door.
这种思想岔流能让人头昏目眩。就在奥巴马向俄罗斯施压，让其停止煽动乌克兰实际上已经发生的内战时，他也正试图与莫斯科展开合作外交攻势，以迫使伊朗缩小其核计划。就在他就核计划问题向伊朗施压时，他发现自己和德黑兰站在一边，以打击伊拉克不断增长的逊尼派叛乱。就在他派出特种部队帮助压制那些叛乱时，他也正试图在邻国叙利亚帮助叛乱分子的公认盟友。
And then there is the mushrooming conflict in Gaza, where Mr. Obama seems to be losing patience. While backing Israel’s right to defend itself against Hamas rockets, he sent Secretary of State John Kerry to work with Egypt to force a cease-fire. This is the same Egypt to which Mr. Obama cut financial aid for a time because its leaders came to power after the military overthrew the previous government.
再有就是加沙冲突的迅速升级，奥巴马似乎对那里已失去了耐心。在表示支持以色列针对哈马斯的火箭弹有权进行自卫时，他派国务卿约翰·克里前往埃及，就迫使加沙停火展开合作。而奥巴马曾一度停止了对同一个埃及的财政援助，因为其领导人是在军方推翻了前政府之后上台的。
“It’s a very tangled mess,” said Gary Samore, a former national security aide to Mr. Obama and now president of United Against Nuclear Iran, an advocacy group. “You name it, the world is aflame. Foreign policy is always complicated. We always have a mix of complicated interests. That’s not unusual. What’s unusual is there’s this outbreak of violence and instability everywhere. It makes it hard for governments to cope with that.”
“这是很复杂的一堆乱麻，”加里·萨莫尔(Gary Samore)说，萨莫尔曾是奥巴马的国家安全问题助手，现任倡导组织“反对伊朗核计划联合会”(United Against Nuclear Iran)主席。“你说对了，这个世界在燃烧。外交政策始终是复杂的。我们总是有复杂的利益组合。那并非异常。异常的是，暴力和不稳定在所有的地方爆发。这一点让政府很难应对。”
Little wonder then that in recent days the president seems almost to be suffering geopolitical whiplash. “We live in a complex world and at a challenging time,” he said wearily last week after making a statement in which he addressed Ukraine, Gaza, Iran and Afghanistan, all in the space of seven minutes. “And none of these challenges lend themselves to quick or easy solutions.”
难怪在最近几天里，总统看来几乎在遭受地缘政治的无情打击。“我们生活在一个复杂的世界，在一个充满挑战的时代，”总统在上周发表的一份声明中疲惫地说，他在短短的7分钟声明中，谈到了乌克兰、加沙、伊朗和阿富汗的问题。“这些挑战中没有一个能用快速或简单的办法解决。”
A few months back, Mr. Obama argued that foreign relations is not a chess game. But at times, it seems like three-dimensional chess. Admirers said Mr. Obama’s strength was seeing those connections and finding ways to balance them. Critics said he allowed complexity to paralyze him at the expense of American leadership in the world.
几个月前，奥巴马曾论证说，外交关系不是一盘棋。但有时，它似乎更像一个三维棋局。仰慕者说，奥巴马的强处是能看到那些连接并设法平衡它们。批评者说，他被复杂性束缚了手脚，其代价是美国在世界上的领导地位。
His approach to foreign policy has become more of a political liability, the subject of sharp criticism from Republicans and even some Democrats. In the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted last month, 58 percent of Americans disapproved of his handling of world affairs, a 10 percentage point jump in a month and the highest such number during his five and a half years in office.
他处理外交政策的方法已更多地成为一种政治负担，也成为共和党人、甚至一些民主党人尖锐批评的对象。在上月进行的最近一次《纽约时报》/CBS新闻民意调查中，58%的美国人不赞成他对世界事务的处理，这个比率比一个月前的增加了10个百分点，也是他担任总统五年半以来最高的。
Yet polls find that Americans do not want Mr. Obama to get the country enmeshed more deeply in places like Ukraine and Iraq, suggesting that he is more in touch with a broader public desire for disengagement than many of his critics even though his leadership is in question.
然而，调查发现，美国人不希望奥巴马让美国更深地卷入诸如乌克兰和伊拉克这些地方的问题，这表明，他比自己的许多批评者更符合希望脱身国际事务的更广泛的民意，虽然他的领导能力是个问题。
“Just because there are lots of global challenges doesn’t mean you have to overreact on one just to make a point,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, his deputy national security adviser. “They each have to be managed carefully in their own right. We have longer run plays that we’re running. Part of this is keeping your eye on the long game even as you go through tumultuous periods.”
“正因为有许多全球性挑战，并不意味着只是为了表明立场，你需要对其中一个过度反应，”奥巴马的国家安全事务副助理本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“每个挑战都需要按其本身的特点精心处理。我们有更长远的考虑，我们正在出于这些考虑行事。这部分是要把你的眼光放得远点，尽管你在经历动荡的时期。”
Others said that long game was sometimes hard to detect in what seemed an ad hoc foreign policy. “If they had a strategy that allowed allies to understand what we’re likely to do — the principles guiding our choices — they could take coordinated and strengthening actions,” said Kori Schake, a former aide to President George W. Bush now at the Hoover Institution. “But their unpredictability discourages others from acting, which is where ‘leading from behind’ runs aground.”
其他人说，在看似临时的外交政策中，有时很难觉察到长期的考虑。“如果他们真有能让盟国明白我们可能会做什么的某种战略的话，比如指导我们做出选择的原则，他们也许可以采取协调和充分的行动，”科瑞·施艾柯(Kori Schake)说，施艾柯曾是前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的助手，现在胡佛研究所(Hoover Institution)工作。“但他们的不可预测性阻碍他人采取行动，这就是让‘从背后领导’行不通的地方。”
The confluence of crises seems to confront Mr. Obama almost with each passing day. He has been pressing Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to force a more robust European response to Russian aggression just as the relationship ruptured again over a new report of American spying in her country.
危机的交汇似乎是奥巴马几乎日复一日所面临的问题。他一直在敦促德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，让她去推动欧洲对俄罗斯的好战姿态做出更强硬的反应，而就在这时，出现了有关美国人在她的国家进行间谍活动的新报道，两国关系再次破裂。
Hoping to smooth things over, Mr. Obama dispatched his White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, and counterterrorism adviser, Lisa Monaco, to Berlin, where they met with German officials on Tuesday, even as European foreign ministers were meeting separately to consider new sanctions on Russia.
希望调解这个问题，奥巴马派自己的白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)和反恐顾问莉萨·莫纳科(Lisa Monaco)前往柏林，他们周二在那里与德国官员见了面，就在同时，欧洲外长们正另行举行会议，考虑对俄罗斯实施新的制裁。
As Mr. Obama tries to corral the Europeans on Russia, he must manage their discontent over Israel’s ground invasion of Gaza. He is also trying to keep Afghanistan from falling into new disarray over a disputed election while arguing that he is not making the same mistake critics believe he made in Iraq by pulling out all troops there as well.
正如奥巴马试图在俄罗斯问题上聚拢欧洲人，他也必须调解他们对以色利地面进攻加沙的不满。他还试图不让阿富汗因有争议的选举而陷入新的混乱，同时还要辩解，从阿富汗全面撤军不是重犯批评者认为他在伊拉克犯下的同样错误。