Inspectors came and went from a Walmart-certified factory in Guangdong Province in China, approving its production of more than $2 million in specialty items that would land on Walmart’s shelves in time for Christmas.
在中国广东一家经过沃尔玛(Walmart)认证的工厂，检查人员来往其间，对这里生产的超过200万美元的产品进行了认可。这些产品将赶在圣诞之际被摆上沃尔玛的货架。
But unknown to the inspectors, none of the playful items, including reindeer suits and Mrs. Claus dresses for dogs, that were supplied to Walmart had been manufactured at the factory. Instead, Chinese workers sewed the goods — which had been ordered by the Quaker Pet Group, a company based in New Jersey — at a rogue factory that had not gone through the certification process set by Walmart for labor, worker safety or quality, according to documents and interviews with officials involved.
检查人员有所不知，这些为沃尔玛生产的造型活泼的产品，包括宠物狗的驯鹿造型西装和圣诞夫人造型服装，没有一样是在这家工厂生产的。由总部设在新泽西的奎克宠物用品集团(Quaker Pet Group)下单订制的这些产品，其实都是中国工人在另一家非正规工厂缝制的。依据相关文件及受访的管理人员，这家工厂尚未经过沃尔玛为保障劳工、工人安全及产品质量而设立的认证程序。
To receive approval for shipment to Walmart, a Quaker subcontractor just moved the items over to the approved factory, where they were presented to inspectors as though they had been stitched together there and never left the premises.
为获得向沃尔玛供货的许可，奎克订单的承包商就把产品运到了一家已经过认证的工厂，向检查人员进行展示，仿佛一切都是在那个厂房里缝制起来的，从未离开过。
Soon after the merchandise reached Walmart stores, it began falling apart.
这批产品在沃尔玛店面上架不久，就质量问题百出。
Fifteen hundred miles to the west, the Rosita Knitwear factory in northwestern Bangladesh — which made sweaters for companies across Europe — passed an inspection audit with high grades. A team of four monitors gave the factory hundreds of approving check marks. In all 12 major categories, including working hours, compensation, management practices and health and safety, the factory received the top grade of “good.” “Working Conditions — No complaints from the workers,” the auditors wrote.
在美国以西1500英里（约2400公里）处，孟加拉西北部，为欧洲多个公司生产毛线衫的罗莎塔针织厂(Rosita Knitwear factory)以高分通过了一次检查。四名检查人员对该厂的几百项内容均划勾审核，给予通过。总共12个审查大类，包括工时、补偿、管理手段、健康与安全，工厂都获得了最高评价“优秀”。“在工作条件方面——未有工人投诉，”检查人员的记录显示。
In February 2012, 10 months after that inspection, Rosita’s workers rampaged through the factory, vandalizing its machinery and accusing management of reneging on promised raises, bonuses and overtime pay. Some claimed that they had been sexually harassed or beaten by guards. Not a hint of those grievances was reported in the audit.
2012年2月，检查进行之后10个月，罗莎塔的工人在工厂内暴动，毁坏机器，并指责管理层在加薪、福利和加班费上食言。一些工人声称遭到过性骚扰，或被警卫殴打。但检查报告中对这些遭遇只字未提。
As Western companies overwhelmingly turn to low-wage countries far away from corporate headquarters to produce cheap apparel, electronics and other goods, factory inspections have become a vital link in the supply chain of overseas production.
随着大批西方企业投向远离企业总部所在地的低收入国家，以生产便宜的服装类、电子类以及其他产品，工厂检查已成为海外产品供应链上的重要一环。
An extensive examination by The New York Times reveals how the inspection system intended to protect workers and ensure manufacturing quality is riddled with flaws. The inspections are often so superficial that they omit the most fundamental workplace safeguards like fire escapes. And even when inspectors are tough, factory managers find ways to trick them and hide serious violations, like child labor or locked exit doors. Dangerous conditions cited in the audits frequently take months to correct, often with little enforcement or follow-through to guarantee compliance.
《纽约时报》进行的一项广泛调查却揭示出，这一旨在保护工人并确保生产质量的检查系统本身却漏洞百出。检查通常浮于表面，以致于忽略了生产场所最基本的安全设施，如紧急通道。即使检察人员要求严格，工厂经理也能想办法耍花招，掩盖严重的违规行为，如雇佣童工或封锁出口。由于缺乏强制手段或跟进措施以保证落实，检查中指出的危险情况往往需耗费数月方能得以修正。
Dara O’Rourke, a global supply chain expert at the University of California, Berkeley, said little had improved in 20 years of factory monitoring, especially with increased use of the cheaper “check the box” inspections at thousands of factories. “The auditors are put under greater pressure on speed, and they’re not able to keep up with what’s really going on in the apparel industry,” he said. “We see factories and brands passing audits but failing the factories’ workers.”
加利福尼亚大学(University of California)全球供应链专家达拉·奥鲁尔克(Dara O’Rourke)表示，工厂监督措施已实行了20年，但收效甚微，特别是在数千家工厂越来越多地采用较廉价的“划勾”式检查后。“检查人员在检查速度方面面临更大的压力，无法跟进服装业的真实情况，”他说道。“我们看到工厂和品牌通过了多次审查，但却坑害了工厂的工人。”
Still, major companies including Walmart, Apple, Gap and Nike turn to monitoring not just to check that production is on time and of adequate quality, but also to project a corporate image that aims to assure consumers that they do not use Dickensian sweatshops. Moreover, Western companies now depend on inspectors to uncover hazardous work conditions, like faulty electrical wiring or blocked stairways, that have exposed some corporations to charges of irresponsibility and exploitation after factory disasters that killed hundreds of workers.
然而，像沃尔玛、苹果(Apple)、盖普(Gap)和耐克(Nike)这样的大公司仍然在使用监督程序。这不仅是为了确保按时按质生产，而且通过检查让消费者放心他们没有使用狄更斯笔下的血汗工厂，以塑造企业正面形象。此外，西方公司现在依靠检查人员去发现工作环境中的隐患，如连接不当的电路，或堆满杂物的楼梯通道。有工厂由于这些问题引发灾难，数百名工人死难后，相关公司被控失职和剥削行为。
The Rana Plaza factory collapse in Bangladesh, which killed 1,129 workers in April, intensified international scrutiny on factory monitoring, and pressured the world’s biggest retailers to sign on to agreements to tighten inspection standards and upgrade safety measures. While many groups consider the accords a significant advance, some longtime auditors and labor groups voice skepticism that inspection systems alone can ensure a safe workplace. After all, they say, the number of audits at Bangladesh factories has steadily increased as the country has become one of the world’s largest garment exporters, and still 1,800 workers there have died in workplace disasters in the last 10 years.
在4月孟加拉的拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)工厂大楼坍塌事件中，有1129名工人丧生。此事件强化了国际社会对于工厂监督程序的审视。压力之下，世界上最大的几家零售商签署了协议，以提高检查标准，强化安全措施。尽管许多组织把协议视为一个巨大的进步，但一些长期在检查机构和劳工组织工作的人士对于单纯依靠检查体系来保证工作场所安全，表示质疑。他们认为，毕竟，自从孟加拉成为世界上最大的服装出口国之一以来，对其工厂的检查次数已稳步增长。但在过去10年间，仍有1800名工人死于工作场所发生的事故。
“We’ve been auditing factories in Bangladesh for 20 years, and I wonder: ‘Why aren’t these things changing? Why aren’t things getting better?’ ” said Rachelle Jackson, the director of sustainability and innovation at Arche Advisors, a monitoring group based in California.
基本原则顾问团(Arche Advisors)是设于加利福尼亚州的监督组织。其可持续及创新主管拉凯拉·杰克逊(Rachelle Jackson)说到，“我们对孟加拉的工厂已进行了20年的检查。我就不明白：‘为什么情况毫无变化？为什么情况毫无改善？’”
Even with American and European companies appointing executives this summer to put in place a stricter regimen of inspections and safeguards under the new agreements, these efforts are limited to Bangladesh. Other leading garment-producing nations, like China, Honduras, Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam, are not getting such stepped-up attention or expanded inspections. Thousands of factories in those countries will no doubt continue to be reviewed through the perfunctory “check the box” audits.
尽管美国和欧洲的公司在今年夏天都指定了专门的行政人员，负责根据新的协议来制定更为严格的监察及防范措施，这些努力也仅限于针对孟加拉。其他主要的服装生产国，如中国、洪都拉斯、印度尼西亚、巴基斯坦和越南尚未得到更多的关注及更全面的检查。这些国家的数千家工厂毫无疑问会继续接受无关痛痒的“划勾”式的审查。
Flaws in Audits
审查自身的缺陷
Factory monitoring companies have established a booming business in the two decades since Gap, Nike, Walmart and others were tarnished by disclosures that their overseas factories employed underage workers and engaged in other abusive workplace practices. Each year, these monitoring companies assess more than 50,000 factories worldwide that employ millions of workers. Walmart alone commissioned more than 11,500 inspections last year. Spurred by heightened demand for monitoring, the share prices of three of the biggest publicly traded monitoring companies, SGS, Intertek and Bureau Veritas, have all increased about 50 percent from two years ago.
20年前，因其海外工厂雇佣低龄工人，并发生工作场合虐待情况，盖普、耐克、沃尔玛及其他公司形象受损。自此，以监督检查工厂为业的公司就生意兴隆。每年，这些监督企业要对世界各地雇员总计达几百万的5万家工厂进行评估。去年，仅受沃尔玛一家委托，就进行了1.15万次检查。受市场需求增长的刺激，三家最大的上市监督公司SGS，天祥集团(Intertek)和必维国际检验集团(Veritas Bureau)的股价在过去两年间增长了50%。
The inspections carry enormous weight with factory owners, who stand to win or lose millions of dollars in orders depending on their ratings. With stakes so high, factory managers have been known to try to trick or cheat the auditors. Bribery offers are not unheard-of. Often notified beforehand about an inspector’s visit, factory managers will unlock fire exit doors, unblock cluttered stairwells or tell underage child laborers not to show up at work that week.
对工厂主而言，检查事关重大。几百万美元订单的得与失完全取决于评估结果。利益攸关，工厂经理们使出浑身解数以蒙骗审查人员。贿赂并非奇闻异事。经理们经常在提前得到检查风声后，会打开封锁的出口，清理拥堵的楼道，或让低龄童工在那一周不要来上班。
Unauthorized subcontracting, or farming work out, to an unapproved factory (as was the case for the Quaker Pet Group order in China), is “very, very common,” according to Gary Peck, founder and managing director of the S Group, a design and sourcing company based in Portland, Ore.
根据俄勒冈州波特兰的设计及采购公司S Group的创建人兼董事总经理加里·佩克(Gary Peck)所言，不经许可就把订单分包，或交给未经认可的工厂（如奎克宠物用品集团在中国的订单），是“非常，非常普遍的。”
Though almost all retailers prohibit the practice in their contracts, suppliers still do it to save money, speed production and meet high-volume orders.
尽管几乎所有的零售商在合同中都严禁此类行为，但因能降低成本，提高效率，满足订单大批量需求，供货商仍我行我素。
And even inspections conducted at authorized factories can be deeply flawed. When NTD Apparel, a contractor for Walmart that is based in Montreal, hired a firm to inspect the Tazreen factory in Bangladesh before 112 workers died in a fire in November, the monitors’ questionnaire asked whether the factory had the proper number of fire extinguishers and smoke detectors on each floor. But it did not call for checking whether the factory had fire escapes or enclosed, fireproof stairways, which safety experts say could have saved lives.
即便是在合格工厂里进行的检查也漏洞百出。总部设于蒙特利尔的NTD服装有限公司(NTD Apparel)是沃尔玛的合同商。NTD雇佣了一个公司对孟加拉塔兹雷恩制衣厂(Tazreen factory)进行了检查，而之后该厂有112名工人在11月份的火灾中丧生。监督人员的问卷中问到工厂每一层是否有足够的灭火器和烟感。但却没有检查工厂是否有火灾紧急通道，或防火楼道。安全专家认为这些设施本可以挽救生命。
“If it’s a check-the-box inspection, you better have the right boxes to look at,” said Daniel Viederman, chief executive of Verité, a nonprofit monitoring group.
“如果要进行划勾式的检查，那你最好参照恰当的检查条目，”丹尼尔·威德尔曼(Daniel Viederman)说道。他是非盈利性监督组织维泰(Verité)的首席执行官。
Sajeev Jesudas, president of UL Verification Services, which conducted the Tazreen audit, said inspecting for fire escapes and fireproof stairways was “the responsibility of the local building inspectors.” Bangladesh has been faulted for having far too few officials to inspect factories.
UL检测服务公司(UL Verification Services)执行了对塔兹雷恩的那次检查。其总裁萨义夫·季诗达(Sajeev Jesudas)表示对紧急通道和防火楼道进行验收是“当地建筑检查机构的责任。”孟加拉一直以来因为对于工厂建筑的官方检查少之又少，而被诟病。
Greg Gardner, the chief executive of Arche Advisors, said Western retailers and brands often seek different levels of audits. Some, like Levi’s and Patagonia, want rigorous — and costly — audits, while others prefer limited, inexpensive audits that will not jeopardize relationships with favored suppliers.
基本原则顾问团的首席执行官格雷格·加德纳(Greg Gardner)认为，西方零售商和品牌对于审核级别的需求经常不一样。如李维斯(Levi’s)和巴塔哥尼亚(Patagonia)这样的公司希望进行全面——而费用高昂——的审查，而其他公司则更倾向于有限度且廉价的审核，以免影响与钟意供货商的关系。
Audits can be very brief. A single inspector might visit a 1,000-employee factory for six to eight hours to review all types of manufacturing issues, like wages, child labor or toxic chemicals. Some auditors receive only five days of training, whereas the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requires three years of training and experience assisting inspectors before employees can lead an inspection of a sizable factory in the United States.
审查可以非常简洁。一个检查人员可以在6至8小时内对有1000名雇员的工厂进行检查，对与生产相关的全部问题进行审核，比如薪水、童工或有毒化学物质。一些检查人员仅接受过5天的岗前培训，而联邦职业安全与健康管理局(Occupational Safety and Health Administration)规定，检查人员的培训及辅助审查经验累计达到3年后，方可主持对美国境内一定规模的工厂进行检查。
In the Rosita case, after the workers went on their rampage, the Western companies that bought the factory’s knitwear grew alarmed. So Rosita’s owner, South Ocean, a conglomerate based in Hong Kong, commissioned a new inspection.
在罗莎塔事件中，工人暴动后，从该厂购买毛线衫的西方公司开始警觉。其母公司，香港的南洋针织集团(South Ocean)集团委托重新对其进行检查。
That inspection, conducted by Verité, which is based in Massachusetts, was a scathing broadside. Verité’s monitors found “ongoing physical abuse” and “verbal and psychological harassment,” with managers compelling workers who arrived late to stand for “many hours without rest.”
这次检查是由设在马萨诸塞州的维泰负责进行的，开足了火力。检查人员发现工厂内存在“持续进行的身体虐待”及“口头及心理上的骚扰”，而经理会逼迫迟到的工人罚站“数小时，没有间断。”
Verité’s three-day inspection found errors in calculating wages, chemical containers labeled only in English and unreasonably high production quotas for which workers were disciplined or fired for not meeting. The inspectors noted that workers “often face harsh treatment,” including jeering from managers if they requested sick leave or annual leave. The monitors also found that managers had fired employees for missing work because of a death in the family and that security guards had beaten workers involved in union and protest activities.
维泰检查人员在为期3天的检查中发现的问题包括工资计算错误、化学品容器仅以英文标注及生产任务指标过高。工人若无法完成指标，即会受罚或被解雇。检察人员记录下工人“经常遭到粗鲁对待，”包括如果提出请病假或休年假，会受到经理的冷嘲热讽。监督人员同时发现有员工因家中有人过世未能上班，而遭到经理解雇，以及参加工会和抗议活动的工人遭到警卫殴打。
Mr. Viederman of Verité said the earlier inspection, performed by a major monitoring firm, SGS, demonstrated the shortcomings of checklist audits. The SGS inspection involved a one-day visit, largely seeking yes-no answers, probably for a modest fee.
维泰的威德尔曼表示，作为一家大型监督公司，SGS之前进行的检查突显了划勾式检查的弊病。SGS对于工厂的检查仅有1天，对于检查内容基本上只要求“是”或“否”的答案，可能收取的检查费也不高。
He noted that SGS had interviewed employees only inside the factory, where workers were often unlikely to speak candidly, and not outside — for instance, at bus stops or at home, where workers might open up.
他指出，SGS仅在工厂里对工人进行了访谈，而不是在厂区外——如公共汽车站或家中，这些工人可能畅所欲言的地方。工人在厂区里一般不会直言不讳。
Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the Institute for Global Labor and Human Rights, was shocked when he read the SGS inspection report for Rosita. “The auditors were saying everything was in perfect order,” he said. “It shows how ineffective these monitoring organizations can be.”
全球劳工与人权研究中心(Institute for Global Labor and Human Rights)执行主任查尔斯·克纳汉(Charles Kernaghan)在读到SGS对罗莎塔的检查报告后大为震惊。“检查人员认为一切正常，”他说道。“这显示出这些监督机构的工作有多么不力。”
Effie Marinos, sustainability manager at SGS, defended her company’s findings. She said SGS had followed the inspection protocol developed by the Business Social Compliance Initiative, a factory certification group for European businesses.
SGS的可持续发展经理埃菲·马里诺斯(Effie Marinos)为公司的检查结果进行了辩护。她表示SGS遵守了企业社会责任倡导组织(Business Social Compliance Initiative)提出的检查规程。该组织负责为欧洲企业进行工厂认证。
Ms. Marinos said the protocol for Rosita did not require interviewing workers outside the factory, a practice that she cautioned could undermine a relationship between a Western company and its suppliers.
马里诺斯表示，罗莎塔的检查规程中并未要求在厂区外对工人进行访谈。她提醒到，此类行为会破坏西方企业和供货商之间的关系。
“You don’t want to start the whole approach with a lack of trust, that they are trying to fool you, that they are behaving unethically,” she said. “It can sour an entire relationship.”
“你不想以不信任的态度为出发点，认为他们想糊弄你，他们的行为不道德，”她说道。“这会破坏整个关系。”
Bypassing Inspection Rules
绕道而行
The Walmart purchase orders read “Ethical Standards Required.”
沃尔玛的采购订单上印着“需合乎道德标准。”
In mid-2011, the Quaker Pet Group, whose biggest customer was Walmart, began looking for cheaper factories where its trendy dog clothes could be made, according to a former Quaker employee who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal from Quaker. The company has also sold its goods to Petco, PetSmart and smaller retailers.
据奎克宠物用品集团一位前任雇员，在2011年中旬，以沃尔玛为最大客户的奎克开始寻找更廉价的工厂去生产时髦的宠物狗服装。因担心奎克报复，此人要求保持匿名。奎克同时为Petco公司，PetSmart公司和其他小型零售商供货。
Quaker settled on a plant called Jiutai Bag and Gift Factory in Dongguan, Guangdong. After visiting the site, Quaker’s president, Neil Werde, sent a note to a Jiutai representative in June 2011. “I was pleased with your factory,” Mr. Werde wrote, according to an e-mail shared by the former employee. “Good luck on the Walmart inspection.”
奎克把目标锁定在广东东莞玖泰手袋礼品厂。奎克总裁尼尔斯·维尔德(Neils Werde)在参观过工厂后，于2011年6月发函玖泰厂方代表。根据前任雇员提供的一封邮件，维尔德在其中写道，“我对贵厂很满意。祝你们在沃尔玛检查中好运。”
That inspection did not occur. Quaker officials became concerned that Jiutai would not be able to pass an inspection, the former employee said.
但检查迟迟未能进行。这位前任雇员谈到，奎克管理层开始担心玖泰可能无法通过检查。
But there was a workaround. While Jiutai would make the garments, Quaker would fill out order forms to say that the items had been made by Ease Clever Plastic Manufactory, then an approved Walmart supplier. Ease Clever is an established manufacturer that ships products to Target and other large companies, according to the global trade database Panjiva. Jiutai, by contrast, had only one recent listing in the database, for a small shipment to Puerto Rico in 2011.
但仍然可以变通一下。依然由玖泰生产这些服装，但奎克在订货单中把生产商填写为怡聪塑胶制品厂(Ease Clever Plastic Manufactory)，一家当时经过沃尔玛认证的工厂。根据全球贸易数据库磐聚网(Panjiva)，怡聪是一家正规工厂，为塔吉特百货(Target)及数家大公司供货。而玖泰，正相反，在数据库中只有一条记录，2011年对波多黎各供过一小批货。
The stickiest issue was how to get the clothing made by Jiutai past Walmart inspectors. An inspection at Ease Clever was scheduled for September 2011, when the Walmart representatives would check that the dog outfits were being manufactured there, the former employee said.
最棘手的问题则是如何让玖泰生产的服装通过沃尔玛检查人员这一关。据前任雇员讲，对怡聪的检查安排在2011年9月，届时沃尔玛的代表将对宠物狗服装在该厂生产进行确认。
Jiutai simply took the clothes to Ease Clever, according to the former employee. Those moves were outlined in a later e-mail from a Jiutai representative to Mr. Werde.
据前任雇员，玖泰直接把服装运到了怡聪。玖泰厂方代表后来发给维尔德的邮件中也大体描述了这些安排。
“The Walmart inspectors showed up and said, ‘Oh, they are being made here.’ It’s not as challenging as you would think,” the former employee said. “You have your finished-goods area and just show them the cartons being packed out.”
“沃尔玛的检查人员到场，并表示，‘噢，服装是在这里生产的。’检查没有你想的那么严格，”这位前任雇员讲到。“厂里有成品区，只要把纸箱子打开让他们看看就行。”
In an e-mail to Mr. Werde, the Jiutai representative, identified as Mr. Hu, detailed how the setup had worked as he pushed Quaker for payment.
玖泰厂方代表，胡（音译）在给维尔德的催款邮件中详细说明了整个安排运作情况。
In July, Mr. Hu wrote, a company based in Hong Kong called KYCE, apparently acting as a liaison, helped arrange an order for the Christmas dog clothes. “JiuTai only make the clothes,” Mr. Hu wrote.
胡的邮件里写到，7月，一家香港的KYCE公司作为中间人帮助安排了宠物狗圣诞服装的订单。胡表示，“玖泰仅负责生产。”
In September, “we hang the clothes” in display cases and “send to Ease Clever warehouse for Walmart during inspection,” Mr. Hu added, including photographs of the costumes. After the inspection, the clothes went back to Jiutai, and Jiutai, after making final adjustments, packed and delivered the clothes to the shipping terminal, Mr. Hu wrote. Mr. Hu and KYCE representatives did not respond to multiple e-mails seeking comment.
9月，“我们把服装挂在”展柜里，然后“在检查时，运到怡聪的沃尔玛产品仓库，”胡补充道，并提供了服饰的照片。胡又写到，检查之后，衣物又被送回玖泰，经过最后的整理后，被打包送至航运码头。胡和KYCE的代表对于要求对此事进行评价的多封电邮未作回应。
Throughout September, according to Walmart purchase orders, Quaker shipped $2.1 million worth of pet outfits from Yantian, China, to various American ports. The purchase orders list Mrs. Claus dresses, Santa suits and reindeer suits — the exact outfits Mr. Hu of Jiutai said he had made at his factory and then photographed. But the purchase orders list Ease Clever as the supplier, not Jiutai.
根据沃尔玛的采购订单，整个9月，奎克从中国盐田向美国各处的货港发出价值210万美元的宠物服饰。采购订单明细中包括圣诞夫人服装、圣诞老人服和驯鹿服——这些都是玖泰的胡先生讲到在自己工厂生产，以及后来拍了照片的产品。但采购订单中的供货商是怡聪，而不是玖泰。
Contacted by telephone last month about the inspection and shipment, Jay Xie, a sales manager for Ease Clever, said the company had allowed the use of its Walmart certification. “His factory had not yet been audited — he used my factory because it was already audited,” Mr. Xie said of the Jiutai factory manager. Mr. Xie said this had happened only once, as a friendly act to help a fellow manufacturer.
怡聪的一位销售经理谢杰伊（音译）上个月在电话中被问及检查及货运事宜时表示，公司允许对其沃尔玛许可进行使用。在讲到玖泰工厂经理时，谢表示，“他的工厂还没有经过审查——他利用我们厂是因为我们厂已经经过了审核。”他同时说明这样的情况只发生过一次，就是为了给同行帮个忙。
The shipment, though, was late, according to the former employee and Mr. Hu’s e-mail. And soon after Walmart started selling these items, Quaker began receiving complaints, according to the former employee. When Walmart conducted a quality test on the Mrs. Claus dress, it found holes, and the outfit failed the test. Walmart executives then summoned Quaker employees to its sourcing office in Shanghai for an explanation, but Quaker did not disclose the subcontracting to Walmart at that time, the former employee said.
据胡的电子邮件和奎克前任雇员，货到迟了。而沃尔玛上架销售这些产品后不久，据前任雇员透露，奎克就开始收到投诉。沃尔玛对圣诞夫人服装进行质检时发现衣服上有破洞，服装未能通过检验。沃尔玛的行政人员随后召集奎克员工到沃尔玛上海采购办公室去说明情况，据前任雇员讲，奎克当时并未向沃尔玛坦白其分包订单的行为。
In March 2013, Walmart received a tip, via its global ethics hot line, about the unauthorized subcontracting and looked into it.
2013年3月，沃尔玛通过其全球道德热线接到关于此次擅自分包订单的举报，并对此进行了调查。
Kevin Gardner, a spokesman for the company, confirmed that subcontracting in this case occurred in 2011, and that Walmart officials “met with the supplier after the investigation to go through the findings and reinforce what our expectations are pursuant to subcontracting.”
公司发言人凯文·加德纳(Kevin Gardner)确认了分包事件发生于2011年。沃尔玛管理层“在调查结束后与供货商见面，梳理了调查结果，并强调我们对于分包的要求。
Even though Walmart was alerted to the case nearly two years after the products were made and only after a hot line tip, the retailer pointed to the episode as an example of how its investigation and compliance system was working, not faltering.
尽管沃尔玛在产品生产近两年后才通过热线举报得知此事，但沃尔玛以此为例，证明其调查及合规体系是有效的，并非难以为继。
“We investigated. We talked with the supplier. We think this does show the processes were in place,” Mr. Gardner said.
加德纳表示，“我们进行了调查。我们与供货商进行了会谈。我们认为这表明这些程序确实起到了作用。”
In January of this year, Walmart established a “zero tolerance” policy, saying it would drop suppliers who used subcontractors without the company’s approval. Walmart adopted the policy after garments headed to the company were found in the fire debris at Tazreen, an unauthorized factory.
今年1月，沃尔玛出台了“零容忍”政策，提出对未经公司许可就擅自进行订单分包的供货商，将终止合作。该政策的出台缘起于，在塔兹雷恩工厂的火灾灾后现场，发现了本要运到沃尔玛的服装，而该工厂并无沃尔玛的生产授权。
Quaker and Mr. Werde declined to comment. The pet specialty company remains a Walmart supplier, Mr. Gardner said.
奎克集团及维尔德拒绝发表评论。据加德纳表示，这家专营宠物用品的公司仍然是沃尔玛的供货商。
Cat-and-Mouse Games
猫鼠游戏
The question-and-answer sheet that the factory’s managers distributed to all their employees was explicit: if an inspector ever asked, “Are there injury records?” they were to answer, “Have not heard of any work-related injuries.”
工厂经理分发给员工的问答题内容明了：如果检查人员问起，“有工伤记录吗？”他们要回答，“没听说过任何工伤情况。”
And if an inspector asked, “Any corporal punishment in the factory?” the employees were to reply, “No.” If monitors inquired about underage workers at the plant, employees were coached to respond, “Employment for those less than 16 years old is prohibited.”
如果检查人员问，“厂里有体罚现象吗？”员工要回答，“没有。”如果问起厂里有没有童工，员工被教导要回答，“严令禁止雇佣16岁以下的少年。”
This sheet, prepared by managers at a Chinese factory and obtained by The Times, had one purpose: to trick inspectors.
《时报》获取的这份由中国工厂管理人员准备的问答卷只有一个用处：欺骗检查人员。
Supply chain experts and monitors say that far too often, factory managers play cat-and-mouse games with inspectors because they are desperate to avoid a failing grade and the loss of a lucrative stream of orders.
供货链专家和监督人员表示，工厂管理人员经常和检查人员玩猫鼠游戏。他们为了通过检查，赢取利润丰厚的订单，不择手段。
The experts provided real-life examples. To avoid appearing illegally overcrowded, one factory moved many machines into trucks parked outside during an inspection, a monitor said. Whenever inspectors showed up at certain plants in China, the loudspeakers began playing a certain song to signal that underage workers should run out the back door, according to several monitors. During inspections in India, some factories displayed elaborate charts detailing health and safety procedures that, like stage props, were transferred from one factory to another, another monitor said.
专家们举了几个真实的例子。一名监督人员提到，一次检查中，为了让厂房看上不显得过度拥挤，一个厂子把几台生产设备搬到了检查期间停放在外面的卡车里。还有几名监督人员讲，在中国，无论何时只要检察人员出现在厂区，扬声器就开始播放一首特定歌曲，提醒低龄工人从后门溜走。还有一名监督人员讲，在印度进行检查时，有些工厂展示出细致的图表，详细描述健康和安全措施。而同样的图表就像舞台道具一样，从一个厂被转到下一个厂。
For monitoring companies with major retailing clients, the auditing regimen can be nonstop. The territory itself is daunting — 5,000 factories produce garments in Bangladesh alone. A retailer that uses 1,000 factories worldwide might want to pay no more than $1,000 an inspection — that could mean a one-day, check-the-box audit — instead of $5,000 for thorough, five-day inspections. That would cost $1 million instead of $5 million.
对于以大型零售商为客户的监督公司而言，检查无休无止。范围之广也令人咋舌——仅孟加拉就有5000家服装生产厂。在世界各地与1000家工厂有业务合作的零售商愿意为一次检查支付的费用也许不会超过1000美元——这也就意味着只能进行为期1天的划勾式检查——而不是花费5000美元，进行为期5天的彻查。这样总共的检查费用是1百万美元，而不是500万美元。
“You have this intense price pressure downward on these inspection firms, turning them into a commodity business,” said Mr. O’Rourke of the University of California, Berkeley.
“检查公司面临巨大的价格压力，只能在商言商了，”加利福尼亚州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的奥鲁尔克说道。
Auret van Heerden, president and chief executive of the Fair Labor Association, a nonprofit group that Apple uses to monitor its Foxconn factories in China, said many inspectors were too rushed. “Many are doing a factory a day, and many auditors, more than one factory a day,” he said. “They’re on a plane and going to a new city the next day. They don’t have much time to think about it or dwell on it.”
公平劳动协会(Fair Labor Association)是一家非盈利性组织，曾代表苹果公司对中国的富士康工厂进行检查。该组织主席兼首席执行官奥雷·范希尔登(Auret van Heerden)表示许多检查人员行程过紧。“很多人在一个工厂就进行一天检查，还有的一天要对不止一家工厂进行检查。”他说道。“这些人坐上飞机，第二天又转战到另一个城市。他们没有多少时间去思考或停留。”
Despite some improvements, many supply chain experts say monitoring has inherent shortcomings. Not long ago, Nike and other sporting goods companies were shaken by revelations that children, ages 5 to 14, toiled up to 11 hours a day making soccer balls for them in Sialkot, Pakistan.
许多供应链专家表示，尽管已取得一些改善，但监督制度有其固有的缺陷。巴基斯坦锡亚尔科特的工厂里，5至14岁的孩子每天工作长达11个小时为耐克和其他体育用品公司缝制足球。此事件不久前曝光后，这些公司深受震动。
A study found that half of Pakistan’s soccer ball workers were making less than the minimum wage, with many stitching the balls’ panels together at home, making it hard for factory monitors to unearth such violations.
一项研究发现巴基斯坦制作足球的工人中有一半人的收入低于最低工资水平。很多人甚至在家中进行缝制，让检查人员更难发现这些工厂的违规行为。
Nike responded by requiring its main contractor there, Silver Star, to consolidate production in one big factory. Knowing how skilled many contractors have become at gaming the monitoring system, Nike took an unusual step and ordered Silver Star to set up a system of elected worker representatives who would be charged with speaking up about safety problems, wage violations or other issues.
作为回应，耐克要求其在该地区的主要合同商银星集团(Silver Star)把生产任务集中在一家大型工厂里。耐克明白合同商们深谙如何对付监督体系，因而未走寻常路。要求银星建立推选工人代表的体系，并让工人代表负责指出安全、工资和其他方面的违规行为。
“We’ve learned that monitoring alone isn’t enough,” said Greg Rossiter, Nike’s chief spokesman.
“我们非常清楚，仅靠监督本身是不够的，”耐克首席发言人格雷格·罗希特(Greg Rossiter)讲道。
Mr. van Heerden said, “You can never visit facilities often enough to make sure they stay compliant — you’ll never have enough inspectors to do that. What really keeps factories compliant is when workers have a voice and they can speak out when something isn’t right.”
范希尔登表示，“无论你多么频繁造访，都无法确保工厂合规——无论你派多少个检查人员，也无法实现这一点。只有当工人有话语权，可以指出不规范的行为时，工厂才会照章办事。”
Still, after a string of fatal disasters and repeated failures in uncovering serious violations, many experts doubt that even a highly organized and supervised inspection industry can improve factory conditions in country after country. Heather White, a research fellow at Harvard and a longtime factory auditor, said, “It starts as a dream, then it becomes an organization, and it finally ends up as a racket.”
然而，在一系列严重灾难之后，在不断疏于发现严重违规行为之后，即便对检查业进行严密的组织和监督，能否依靠它在不同国家改善工厂生产条件，许多专家仍持怀疑态度。哈佛大学研究人员、长期从事检查工作的希瑟·怀特(Heather White)表示，“这一切都始于一个梦想，然后成为一个组织，最后却以骗局告终。”