Jack Warner, a former vice president of world soccer’s governing body, FIFA, defended himself against corruption charges on Sunday by citing an article from The Onion, apparently unaware that it was satire.
周日，世界足球管理机构国际足联(FIFA)前副主席杰克•沃纳(Jack Warner) 引用洋葱网(The Onion)的一篇文章，就腐败指控为自己辩护。他似乎并不知道那是一篇讽刺文章。
Mr. Warner, 72, who was arrested last week in connection with a wide-ranging criminal investigation by the United States Justice Department, held up the faux news report, calling it evidence of an American conspiracy, in a video statement that was uploaded to the web and then removed later in the day.
上周，72岁的沃纳因牵涉美国司法部(Justice Department)展开的一项大规模刑事调查而被逮捕。在上传至网上的一则视频声明中，他手举那篇杜撰出来的新闻报道，称其证明了此事是美国的一个阴谋。该视频在当天晚些时候被删除。
The satirical article, published Wednesday under the headline, “FIFA Frantically Announces 2015 Summer World Cup in the United States,” mockingly suggested that, to placate American officials, the governing body had added a new tournament, which would begin the very same day.
这篇讽刺报道发表于周三，标题为“FIFA慌乱宣布2015年夏季世界杯在美国举办”。文章嘲讽地表示，FIFA为了讨好美国官员而增设了一届世界杯，而且将在同一天开幕。
Holding up a printout of The Onion piece as if it were a genuine news report, Mr. Warner told viewers of the video posted on his personal website, Facebook page and YouTube channel, “All this has stemmed from the failed U.S. bid to host the World Cup.”
沃纳拿着打印出来的那篇洋葱网的文章，就好像那是一篇真正的新闻报道一样。视频被放在了他自己的个人网站、Facebook主页和YouTube上。他对观看视频的人说：“这一切都是源于美国申办世界杯失败了。”
Mr. Warner, the leader of Trinidad’s Independent and Liberal Party, went on to suggest that American officials were primarily motivated by losing a bid to host the 2022 World Cup.
作为特立尼达岛独立自由党(Independent and Liberal Party)的领导人，沃纳接着表示，美国官员主要是受了申办2022世界杯失败的刺激。
“The U.S. applied to hold the World Cup in 2022 and they lost the bid to Qatar — a small country, an Arabic country, a Muslim country,” he said.
“美国申请举办2022年世界杯，但输给了卡塔尔这样一个小国，一个阿拉伯国家，一个穆斯林国家，”他说。
“I could understand the U.S. embarrassment,” Mr. Warner continued, but it is important, he added, to “take your losses like a man.”
“我理解美国的尴尬，”沃纳继续说道，但是有一点很重要，他说，“你得像个男人一样接受失败。”
He then speculated further that a second goal of the criminal investigation that has ensnared him was to force “Russia to give up the World Cup,” which it is hosting in 2018.
他又进一步推测，导致他被捕的这次刑事调查的第二个目的是逼迫“俄罗斯放弃世界杯”。俄罗斯将主办2018年的世界杯。
“Why is it,” Mr. Warner asked of the American prosecutors, “that they believe that they have a right to the World Cup?”
“为什么，”沃纳在视频中质问美国检方，“他们认为自己有权举办世界杯？”
As dramatic background music swelled, he went on, holding up The Onion article again, to accuse the United States of hypocrisy for accepting the right to host the (entirely fictional) “Summer World Cup, 2015, from the very same organization that they are accusing of being corrupt. That has to be double standards.”
随着激烈的背景音乐的声音越来越大，他再次举起洋葱网的那篇报道，继续谴责美国的虚伪，称美国“从一个被其指控腐败的机构那里”接受了“（完全是虚构出来的）2015夏季世界杯的主办权。这必然是双重标准。”
In the video, Mr. Warner also said he was “consoled by the fact that many of you on the blogs, on Twitter, on Facebook, on other channels, throughout were very supportive of me and still are.” He assured his supporters that, “At the end of the day, all of the allegations against me shall be proven to be unfounded.”
在视频中，沃纳还说他“感到欣慰，因为你们中的很多人通过博客、Twitter、Facebook及其它渠道，从始至终在大力支持我，现在依然如此”。他向他的支持者保证，“最终，所有针对我的指控都将被证明是毫无根据的。”
“You see, it is not when you’re up that you know who your friends are,” he said, “it’s when you are perceived to be down.”
“你们看，要辨别真正的朋友，不是在得意的时候，”他说，“而是在别人眼中你失意的时候。”
After Mr. Warner’s error in mistaking The Onion for a news source was noted, and mocked, on social networks, the video disappeared without explanation from his website and social media accounts.
在沃纳错误地把洋葱网当做新闻来源一事被指出，并在社交网站上遭到嘲笑后，这个视频就未做任何解释地在他的个人网站和社交媒体账号上消失了。