MOSCOW — It all began with the arrest of a rape suspect in an open-air market two weeks ago. A brawl erupted. A police officer was injured.
莫斯科——这一切都始于两周前，当时，警方在一处露天集市逮捕了一名强奸案嫌疑人。双方动了手。有一名警察负伤。
It was a minor, if ugly, episode that might quickly have been forgotten except that it snowballed into a sweeping government campaign — not against crime in the city’s markets, but against illegal immigrants, though the suspect was not an immigrant at all.
尽管让人不快，这起事件依然不过是一个也许会被人迅速遗忘的小插曲。然而，事情滚雪球般地变成了一次政府扫荡行动，该行动打击的不是市内集市的犯罪活动，而是非法移民，尽管那名嫌疑人根本不是移民。
In the days that followed, the police and migration officials mounted raids at markets across Moscow, in factories that operated in the shadows of the law, in the city’s subway system and on the streets. At last count nearly 1,500 foreigners had been detained, according to the Federal Migration Service. That number included 586 people, most of them Vietnamese, who were being held in a temporary tent camp more appropriate for a war zone or the scene of a natural disaster than the center of a capital city.
在接下来的数天里，警方和移民官员发动了突击行动，目标包括莫斯科的各处集市、在法律触及不到的角落运转的工厂，也包括莫斯科的地铁系统和大街小巷。根据俄罗斯联邦移民局(Federal Migration Service)的最新统计数据，有近1500名外国人被羁押，其中有586名人被羁押在临时帐篷营地内，他们大多是越南人。这种帐篷更多地出现在战区或者自然灾害发生地，而不是一国首都的市中心。
“This is absolutely normal,” Moscow’s mayor, Sergei S. Sobyanin, told the newspaper Vedomosti last week, defending the government’s actions. “In any society, in any country, if an emergency situation happens, then the government and society begin to act more harshly.”
上周，莫斯科市长谢尔盖·S·索比亚宁(Sergei S. Sobyanin)接受《俄罗斯商业日报》(Vedomosti)采访时对政府的行动进行了辩护，他说，“这是绝对正常的。在任何社会、任何国家，如果发生紧急情况，那么政府和社会都会采取比较严厉的行动。”
The campaign — cheered, for the most part, by the news media and the public here — has exposed the complexity and corruption of Russia’s labor market and tapped into the country’s ever-simmering ethnic animosity. And that has raised concerns among foreign embassies and provoked outrage from national and international human rights groups.
在很大程度上，此次行动得到了当地新闻媒体和公众的支持，它暴露了俄罗斯劳工市场的复杂性和贪腐现象，而其根源是俄罗斯不断酝酿的民族仇恨。此事已经引发外国使馆的关注，并激起了俄罗斯国内及国际人权组织的公愤。
Svetlana A. Gannushkina, the director of the refugee-rights group Civil Assistance, denounced the camp as “an illegal place of detention” that had ensnared innocent people, even those with permission to live and work in Moscow.
难民权利组织民间援助(Civil Assistance)的理事长斯韦特兰娜·A·甘努什金娜(Svetlana A. Gannushkina)谴责临时帐篷营地是囚禁无辜平民的“一个非法羁押地”，其中甚至包括获得批准在莫斯科生活和工作的民众。
The Vietnamese Embassy sent its diplomats to the camp on Friday — a week after it first opened — to try to resolve the matter and begin to identify those being held. Many did not have their passports when the police raided a shadowy textile factory near where the tent camp appeared, and speak little Russian.
在临时帐篷设立一周之后，越南大使馆上周五向那里派遣了外交官，目的是试图解决此事，并开始甄别被羁押的人士。当警方突袭一处地下纺织厂时，那里的许多人都没有携带护照，也基本不会说俄语，这处纺织厂就在临时帐篷营地所在地附近。
Human Rights Watch on Friday called conditions in the camp inhuman and demanded that the authorities close it and end a campaign it said was aimed at people based on the color of their skin, not their nationality. Those being held include people from former Soviet republics with close ties to Russia, like Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, as well as Syria, Afghanistan and Egypt.
周五，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称，营地内的情况是非人道的，并要求当局关闭帐篷，终结此次行动。他们还表示，此次行动的依据是人们的肤色，而不是他们的国籍。被羁押者中包括了来自乌兹别克斯坦、吉尔吉斯斯坦、塔吉克斯坦等前苏联加盟共和国的民众，以及叙利亚人、阿富汗人和埃及人。
“Everything about this massive sweep violates Russia’s obligations under international law,” Human Rights Watch’s director in Russia, Tanya Lokshina, said in a statement. “Prolonged detention without counsel, ethnic profiling, inhuman conditions — it should stop now.”
人权观察组织驻俄罗斯的负责人塔尼娅·洛克申娜(Tanya Lokshina)在一份声明中表示，“在此次大扫荡中，俄罗斯的所作所为违反了国际法规。人们在没有律师的情况下遭到持续羁押，被羁押者遭受民族歧视，以及人们面临着非人道羁押环境——这些情况现在就该中止。”
There is little evidence that it will end soon. The first 31 of the Vietnamese workers were deported over the weekend. The head of the Vietnamese Embassy’s consular division, Lee Hong Chung, said in a written response to questions about the detentions that the embassy was working closely with the Russian authorities to resolve the fate of the others.
没有什么迹象表明，事情会很快结束。周末期间，第一批31名越南劳工被遣返。越南大使馆领事部门主管黎洪钟(Lee Hong Chung)以书面形式回答与拘捕有关的问题时称，大使馆正与俄罗斯当局密切合作，以期解决其他人的去留问题。
The raids, which some critics have called “zachistki,” a word for cleansing operations that gained currency during Russia’s war in Chechnya, continue almost daily, supported by a large majority of Russians, nearly two-thirds of whom think immigrants increase crime and corruption, according to the results of a recent poll.
一些批评人士称这些突击行动为“肃清”(zachistki)，这个词原来指的是俄罗斯在车臣战争期间大肆实施的清洗行动。突击几乎每天进行，并且得到了绝大多数俄罗斯人的支持。最近的一次民调数据显示，近三分之二的俄罗斯人认为移民加重了犯罪和腐败问题。
Campaigns against migrant or immigrant workers happen so routinely here they seem seasonal. The issue, not unlike the debate over immigration in Europe or the United States, is further inflamed here by widespread racism toward Muslims from the provinces of the Northern Caucasus, which are part of Russia, and from the former Soviet republics of Central Asia, which are not.
在这里，针对外来者和移民劳工的行动频繁发生，似乎成了季节性活动。与欧洲和美国就移民问题进行的讨论没什么两样，在这里，矛盾也因针对穆斯林的广泛歧视而进一步激化。这里的穆斯林来自俄罗斯境内的北高加索地区的一些省份，以及境外的中亚地区的数个前苏联加盟共和国。
Often the raids coincide with politics inside Russia, and any subtleties about the issue — like the fact the suspect in the rape was a lawfully registered worker from southern Russia — are lost in the public outcry.
这些突击行动往往与俄罗斯的国内政治挂钩，问题本身的复杂性均会淹没在公众的抗议声浪中，比如这一次，强奸案嫌疑人实际上是来自俄罗斯南部的合法注册劳工。
“They are basically exploiting the xenophobia that is so prevalent in Moscow,” Ms. Lokshina of Human Rights Watch said in an interview, blaming the election campaign for the fervor of the latest crackdown. “I believe it’s quite cynical.”
人权观察组织的洛克申娜接受采访称，“莫斯科的排外情绪十分普遍，他们不过是对此加以利用。”在她看来，最近这一轮打击之所以如此猛烈，是因为选战。“我认为这相当虚伪。”
Mr. Sobyanin, appointed mayor in 2010 when the president selected regional leaders, has made cleaning up Moscow’s bazaar-like markets a signature policy ahead of his first electoral test as mayor.
索比亚宁在2010年成为莫斯科市长，当时还是由总统来委地方领导人。他目前面临着上任以来的首次选战，并已将莫斯科集市的清理作为自己的标志性政策。
The brawl that precipitated the crackdown, he told the newspaper Vedomosti, “was the last drop, which overfilled the cup of patience of the security services, and they are beginning to react more harshly.”
接受《俄罗斯商业日报》采访时，索比亚宁称，招致严厉打击行动的打斗“是最后一根稻草，执法部门的耐心已经耗尽，于是他们开始采取更严厉的应对措施”。
The markets, which emerged in the gray shadows of capitalism after the collapse of the Soviet Union, have long been associated with the underground economy, controlled by gangs and officials who exploit the vulnerability of illegal workers by withholding pay or having them arrested. “These people are a part of the system of illegal slave labor that has appeared in Russia,” Ms. Gannushkina said at a briefing on Wednesday. “They are the victims of this system, the first victims.”
苏联解体后，这些集市从资本主义的阴暗处滋生出来。它们长期与地下经济相联系，为黑帮和官员所把持。这些人利用非法劳工的弱点，克扣他们的报酬或是将他们交给警察。在周三的通报会上，甘努什金娜称，“他们是俄罗斯出现的非法奴役制度中的一部分。他们是制度的牺牲品，而且是首当其冲的牺牲品。”
At the same time the workers are a source of cheap labor in the retail trade and construction industries, and thus a vital part of the country’s economy. Human Rights Watch has chronicled abuses at companies building the facilities for the Olympic Games to be held in Sochi in February.
与此同时，这些劳工还是零售和建筑领域廉价劳动力的来源，因此是俄罗斯经济的重要组成部分。人权观察组织列有一份清单，历数了为明年2月的索契冬奥会建造场馆的数家企业的相关违规行为。