HONG KONG — There are plenty of things to worry about in the Chinese economy — shadow banking, pain in the property sector, flagging growth in industrial output — but the willingness of the Chinese consumer to spend, at least on some things, seems to be holding up.
香港——中国经济有很多让人担心的地方——影子银行、房地产市场的困境、工业产出增幅下降——但中国消费者的消费意愿，至少对某些商品而言，似乎依然强劲。
Samsonite, which sells luggage and other bags around the world and has a pretty good finger on the Chinese consumer’s pulse, said on Wednesday that it expected sales of its goods in China to pick up again this year, after a feeble performance in 2013.
国际箱包制造商新秀丽(Samsonite)对中国消费者的最新动向了如指掌。该公司周三表示，尽管2013年的表现不尽如人意，但预计今年的在华销售将加速增长。
The company, which also owns the American Tourister, High Sierra and Hartmann brands, has more than doubled its sales in China in recent years, from $91.8 million in 2010 to $192.2 million last year. (China now accounts for nearly one-tenth of its global sales.)
该公司旗下拥有美国旅行者(American Tourister)、High Sierra、Hartmann品牌，最近几年在华销售额翻了一番还多，2010年为9180万美元（约合5.7亿元人民币），去年增长到1.922亿美元。（其全球销售额中，将近十分之一来自中国。）
But last year brought growth of 5.3 percent from the previous year, a far cry from the rates of more than 20 percent it enjoyed in China during the preceding few years. Founded in the United States in 1910, Samsonite listed in Hong Kong in 2011, in part to take advantage of growth in China.
但去年的销售额同比增长了5.3%，与之前几年超过20%的年度增速相差甚远。新秀丽1910年成立于美国，2011年在香港上市，此举在一定程度上是为了借力中国的经济增长。
A crackdown on corruption and ostentatious spending and the uncertainties surrounding the country’s far-reaching economic overhaul took a toll as corporate and private consumers held off spending, said Ramesh Tainwala, the chief operating officer of Samsonite, at a media event in Hong Kong on Wednesday.
新秀丽的首席运营官拉梅什·塔因瓦拉(Ramesh Tainwala)周三在香港的一场媒体活动上说，中国政府打击腐败和铺张消费的行动，以及中国影响深远的经济改革所带来的诸多不确定性，这种种都带来了冲击，因为企业和个人消费者都减少了支出。
But, he added, many of these uncertainties are becoming resolved, while rising wages are lifting an expanding number of Chinese into the ranks of the middle class. So even though China’s economy is cooling, demand for travel — and suitcases — is growing robustly, and Samsonite expects sales growth of more than 10 percent this year.
但他补充说，许多不确定性在逐渐消除，与此同时，工资水平的不断上升让越来越多中国人跨入了中产阶级的行列。因此，尽管中国经济正在降温，对旅行的需求——以及对旅行箱的需求——正在强劲增长，新秀丽预计，今年的销售额将增长10%以上。
“People don’t stop living their lives,” Mr. Tainwala said.
塔因瓦拉说，“人们还要继续生活。”
Comments like this offer insight into the health of an increasingly important part of the Chinese economy. Beijing is trying to wean the economy from its reliance on heavy industry and exports, and more domestic consumption is a key element of this rebalancing.
类似这样的评论为中国经济中一个越来越重要的部分的状况提供了一种洞察。北京正试图减少国家经济对重工业和出口的依赖，更多的国内消费是重新平衡经济的一个重要因素。
The confidence of the Chinese consumer also will continue to be of huge importance to consumer goods companies’ sales outside China, as those companies seek to cater to the flood of Chinese travelers who are venturing beyond their borders. More than 100 million Chinese traveled abroad last year, and analysts expect the number to double by 2020.
中国消费者的信心，对海外的消费者产品公司的销售来说，也将继续具有重要意义，这些公司在试图迎合出境旅游的大批中国游客的口味。去年，出境旅游的中国人超过1亿人次，分析人士预计到2020年这一数字将会翻一番。
Retailers from Prada to Burberry have rushed to hire Mandarin speakers at outlets in Europe and the United States, or to engage in the Chinese social media in a bid to capture the hearts and wallets of this increasingly affluent group of shoppers. Samsonite’s response includes a recent drive to hire Mandarin speakers at its outlets around the globe, Mr. Tainwala said.
像普拉达(Prada)和博柏利(Burberry)这样的零售商，已在其欧洲和美国的专卖店里积极招募讲普通话的雇员，或是通过中国社交媒体，去竞相捕获越来越富裕的购物群体的人心和钱包。塔因瓦拉说，新秀林也做出了反应，包括最近努力在世界各地的专卖店里雇用会讲汉语的员工的做法。
Wooing Asian consumers is not just a question of stocking the colors they like: It is also being aware of cultural habits and preferences, he said. The company recognized that Asians like to double-check the advertised weight of bags they are considering purchasing. One of its stores in Paris responded by providing a scale — a practice that is now being adopted by other Samsonite outlets.
他说，赢得亚洲消费者的青睐，并不只是在商店中备有他们喜欢的颜色的问题，也要意识到他们的文化习惯和嗜好。该公司发现，亚洲人喜欢核查自己想买的箱子重量，看是否与标签上的一致。因此，新秀林在其巴黎的一家专卖店里放置了一个台秤，其他的专卖店也开始采用这一做法。
As for sales staff, he said, Mandarin-speakers are now highly sought after and can command much higher salaries — at least double — in cities such as London and New York.
他说，就销售人员来说，会讲汉语者如今非常抢手，他们因此也能要求更高的工资，像在伦敦和纽约这样的城市，他们的工资至少是别人的两倍。
Mr. Tainwala’s advice to job seekers: “Learn Mandarin!”
塔因瓦拉给求职者的建议是：“学汉语！”