WHEN Martin Semjen first looked at the Stanton, a co-op at Broadway and 94th Street, he was delighted by the sauna and fitness room. His wife, Lynn Schnurnberger, on the other hand, fell hard for an unpretentious basement library that doubles as a meeting room and is lined on three sides with floor-to-ceiling wood bookcases. Residents can choose volumes on law and art, popular novels like “The Da Vinci Code” and “Atonement” and, fittingly enough, a biography of the building’s namesake, Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
斯坦顿(Stanton)是一栋合作公寓(co-op)，位于百老汇剧院区和第94街。当马丁·谢姆延(Martin Semjen)第一次看到它时，就喜欢上了这里的桑拿浴室和健身室，而他的妻子林恩·舍诺伯格(Lynn Schnurnberger)却被朴实无华的地下图书室迷住了。图书室也兼作会议室，三面墙都是从地面到天花板高的木制书柜。公寓住户可以在这里阅读法律、艺术方面的书籍，像《达芬奇密码》(The Da Vinci Code)和《赎罪》(Atonement)这样的通俗小说，或与这栋大楼同名的伊丽莎白·卡迪·斯坦顿(Elizabeth Cady Stanton)的传记，读来也是相当的应景。
“I really don’t use the fabulous gym equipment, but I do go and look at the old books,” said Ms. Schnurnberger, the co-author of, among other novels, the bestseller “Botox Diaries.” “The existence of the library spoke to the fact that this was more than a building. It was a community of people who still read.”
“我没有怎么用过大楼里精良的健身设施，但我会去看看那些旧书，”舍诺伯格说。“图书室的存在，证明这里不仅是一栋建筑，而且还是一个由仍然阅读图书的人所组成的社区。”舍诺伯格是畅销书《肉毒杆菌日记》(Botox Diaries)的合著者，还出版过其它一些小说。 
Granted, in New York residential buildings, barbells carry far more weight than books. “The gym is still one of the most important amenities, and after that are things like roof decks or other outdoor space,” said Tami Shaoul, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group. “No client has ever told me ‘I must have a library.’ But when we go somewhere and do a tour of the amenities, their eyes do light up if they actually see one,” she added. “It makes them feel good about the building because they imagine themselves having that quiet space.”
当然，在纽约的住宅楼中，杠铃的重要程度远远胜过图书。 “健身房仍是最重要的设施之一，其次则是楼顶平台或其它户外空间。”柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)高级副总裁塔米·沙乌勒(Tami Shaoul)说，“没有哪位客户跟我说过‘必须要有个图书室’这样的话。但是，当他们去参观一些大楼的公共设施时，如果真的看到一处图书室，他们的眼睛就会亮起来。”她补充说，“图书室会让他们对大楼产生好感，因为他们会想象自己拥有那片安静的空间。”
In the highly competitive New York marketplace, where developers of residential buildings seem to be engaged in an amenities arms race — cold storage, wine cellar, gym, pool, hot tub, children’s playroom, ’tween playroom, party room — the library is a low-cost frill. “You don’t need a lot of space to create a small reading room. It can be carved out of the lobby,” said Kathy Braddock, an owner of Rutenberg Realty.
在竞争激烈的纽约房地产市场上，住宅楼开发商似乎热衷于公共设施的“军备竞赛”——冷藏库、葡萄酒窖、健身房、游泳池、热水浴缸、儿童游戏室、大童游戏室、派对厅；而图书室是一个低成本的附加品。“设置一个小型阅读室并不需要太大空间，在大堂里隔出一块地方就行。” 房产中介公司Rutenberg Realty的所有人之一凯西·布拉多克(Kathy Braddock)说。
And even though in this age of eBooks a library can seem like an anachronism, some of New York’s glossiest and highest profile new developments boast of having one.
尽管在如今这个电子书时代，图书室可能显得有点不合时宜，但纽约一些最出名、最高调的新住宅开发项目，都把图书室当作了一个卖点。
The library “may be a marker of luxury. It’s like having that fourth kid,” said Roy Kim, a senior vice president of design at Extell, whose condo project One57 on West 57th Street, scheduled to open in late 2013, will have a library. So will the Touraine, an Upper East Side condo by Toll Brothers opening earlier that year.
图书室“可能是一个奢侈的标志，就像是有了第四个孩子，”房地产开发商Extell的高级设计副总裁罗伊·金(Roy Kim)说。Extell计划于2013年年底开盘的公寓项目One57位于西57街，会有一个图书室。开发商托尔兄弟(Toll Brothers)在上东区的产权公寓项目Touraine也设了一个图书室，还会比One57早些开盘。
“It’s an experiment on our end,” said David von Spreckelsen, a division president of Toll Brothers. “The demographic at the Touraine is a little older — some empty nesters or couples with a pied-à-terre. They’re not people who are working 9 to 9. Weekends and nights, they’ll come home and may have time to go to the library to read and have a glass of wine by the fire. We’ll see how it goes.”
“这对我们而言是个新尝试，”大卫·冯·施普雷克尔森(David von Spreckelsen)说，他是托尔兄弟公司的一名部门负责人。“Touraine的居民年纪偏大——比如空巢老人，或是拥有备用寓所的夫妇，他们都不是从早上9点工作到晚上9点的人。到了周末和晚上，他们回到家后，可能会有时间去图书室看看书，再在壁炉边喝杯酒。我们想看看图书室的效果如何。”
On the most practical level, a library in a New York building is the equivalent of a bonus room in a sprawling suburban house. At the Battery Park City condominium 1 Rector Park “the residences are not large,” said James Lansill, a senior managing director of Corcoran Sunshine, the sales and marketing agents for the building. Consequently, its library, known as Bar and Books, can be a retreat “while the housekeeper is vacuuming, or to get away from the nanny and the children,” he said. The lounge chairs and mohair sofas have helped turn the space into a second living room for some owners.
从最实际的层面来说，纽约大楼里的一间图书室，就相当于郊区独栋房里的一个赠送的房间。在炮台公园城(Battery Park City)的“Rector Park1号”公寓大楼里，“房间的套内面积并不大，”詹姆斯·兰西尔(James Lansill)说，“因此当家里有清洁工吸尘，或保姆带孩子玩的时候，你就可以到楼内的图书室里安静地待一会儿。”兰西尔是该楼的销售及市场推广代理公司Corcoran Sunshine的高级总经理，这栋大楼的图书室名为“Bar and Books”，有躺椅和马海毛沙发，一些业主已经把它当作了第二客厅。
As Ms. Braddock puts it, “a library increases the square footage of your own apartment because it gives an extra quiet place in the building you can get away to. That’s a big deal in New York. Whether residents read the books on the shelves is irrelevant.”
正如布拉多克所说：“图书室增加了你自家的寓所面积，因为它就在楼内提供了一个额外的安静场所，让你可以去那里避开纷扰。在纽约，这可是件至关重要的事。居民们是否会阅读书架上的书，倒是无关紧要的。”
About those books. The developer generally seeds the collection, but often it grows in an organic fashion as residents cull their own shelves. Such was the case at Manhattan House on East 66th Street, where coffee table tomes on design got the ball rolling. Similarly themed titles have made their way from personal collections to the rooftop library, a building spokesman said.
说到书，开发商通常会在图书室里先备上一些，而随着住户们对自家书架的清理，藏书的规模往往会出现有机增长。东66街的曼哈顿大楼(Manhattan House)就出现了这样的情况。该楼的一位发言人说，他们在屋顶图书室里摆放的一些设计类的大型咖啡桌读物（coffee table tomes，指那种精美而昂贵、适合坐在咖啡桌旁翻阅的休闲图文书——译注）。这些书成为一个契机，类似题材的书籍也纷纷从私人收藏来到了这间屋顶图书室里。
At 1 Rector Park,  volumes on art, architecture, travel and fashion were the first arrivals, Mr. Lansill said. “Now that people have moved in and regularly used the library,” he said, “the collection has slowly grown. Residents are especially comfortable borrowing children’s books and adding their own. Our most shared titles, without a doubt, come from the Harry Potter series.”
在“Rector Park1号”大楼，最早一批登陆图书室的是艺术、建筑、旅行和时尚方面的图书。兰西尔说：“目前住户都已搬入了大楼，他们经常来图书室看书，这里的藏书也慢慢增加了。大家尤其喜欢借阅童书，也会把自己家的童书放进来。我们这里最常被分享的书，毫无疑问，正是《哈利波特》(Harry Potter)系列里的啦。”
At the Caledonia, a condo on West 17th Street, the library is called the Assouline Culture Lounge, a nod to its cache of design, fashion and photography books from Assouline, the high-end publishing company. The library, which has club chairs and a fireplace, “is an invitation to culture,” said Daria Salusbury, a senior vice president of Related Companies, the building’s developer.
Caledonia是位于西17街的一栋公寓大楼，它的图书室名为“阿苏利纳文化休闲室”(Assouline Culture Lounge)，因为这里的设计、时尚和摄影书籍都来自高端读物出版公司阿苏利纳。图书室里有俱乐部椅子和一个壁炉，向你发出“步入文化殿堂的邀请”，达莉亚·萨利斯贝利(Daria Salusbury)说。她是这座公寓楼的开发商Related Companies的高级副总裁。
There, culture seems to be narrowly defined; Assouline’s are the only books on the shelves. In any case, beach-book castoffs are not encouraged. “I don’t want to have 17 versions of Agatha Christie paperbacks,” Ms. Salusbury said firmly. “That’s not the purpose of this. The purpose is to give a very sophisticated perspective on culture.” And, she added, “It’s been received very nicely.”
但在这个图书室里，“文化”的定义似乎很狭隘；书架上的所有图书都是阿苏利纳出版的，而且它也不鼓励居民把自己不要的休闲图书送到这里。“我不希望这里有17个版本的阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)平装本。”萨利斯贝利坚定地说，“那不是开办这个图书室的初衷，提供一个非常高雅的文化视角才是其目的。”而且，她补充说，“大家已经欣然接受了这一点。”
So nicely that the idea has been extended to another Related property, Tribeca Tower, a rental building on Duane Street. A slice of the lobby has been carved into a “gathering space” with selections from the Assouline list. According to Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for Related, the developer picked up the tab for the books, viewing the relationship with the publisher as “a branding opportunity.”
这个做法的效果非常好，所以Related Companies在杜安街(Duane Street)的出租公寓大楼翠贝卡大厦(Tribeca Tower)也如法炮制，把大厅里的一块地方打造成一个“聚集空间”(gathering space)，摆上选自阿苏利纳书目里的图书。Related Companies的女发言人乔安娜·罗斯(Joanna Rose)表示，开发商会为这些图书买单，他们把自己跟阿苏利纳出版社间的关系视为“品牌推广机会”。
Assouline also supplied the books for the library at New York by Gehry, the highly publicized rental in the financial district. The seventh-floor room with leather sofas and accent chairs is a hit, according to Clifford Finn, the president of new development marketing for Citi Habitats, leasing agents for the building.
阿苏利纳的图书还出现在了金融区的New York by Gehry这栋租赁式公寓楼的图书室里。它的图书室设在7楼，有真皮沙发和休闲椅，该楼的租赁代理商Citi Habitats的新开发市场营销总裁克利福德·芬恩(Clifford Finn)说，这个图书室非常受大家欢迎。
“I’ve never been in the library when I haven’t seen people sitting in chairs reading,” said Mr. Finn, who like Ms. Salusbury does not welcome unsolicited additions to the shelves: “It’s not really in keeping with the feel of the room.
“我每次去这个图书室，都看到有人坐在椅子上看书。” 芬恩说。他像萨利斯贝利一样，不欢迎不请自来的图书，“那样就无法保持这个房间给人的感觉了。”
“A lot of the books in our collection are very expensive,” he continued. “It’s nice that residents have access to them. Sometimes they borrow them, but they return them. I can’t say we never have a book that doesn’t come back, but it’s an uncommon occurrence.”
“在我们的藏书中，有很多都是价格不菲的，”他继续说，“住户们可以有机会读到这些书，这很好。有时他们会把书借走，但都会归还。借走不还的情况也出现过，但那只是一个罕见的特例。”
No librarians or other authority figures patrol the bookshelves in any of these buildings. There is no mechanism for checking out books — they are borrowed at will with no penalties for those who take their sweet time reading them. Guilt and good manners keep the collections intact.
在这些住宅楼里，没有图书管理员或其他管理者负责巡查书架。借书也无需手续——书都是任意借的，那些看书慢慢悠悠的人也不会因为逾期还书而被罚款。人们的内疚感和好习惯保证了藏书的完整无缺。
As part of a two-year sponsorship, Lincoln Center provided an extensive list of performing arts-themed books for the Avery condominium, its neighbor on Riverside Boulevard. Titles like “101 Stories of the Great Ballets,” The Columbia Encyclopedia of Modern Drama, “Celluloid Power” and three dozen others were duly purchased, said a spokeswoman for Extell, the condominium’s developer. A spokeswoman for Lincoln Center declined to discuss its arrangement with Extell.
作为一个为期两年的赞助项目的一部分，林肯中心(Lincoln Center)为其在河滨大道(Riverside Boulevard)上的邻居Avery公寓大楼提供了极其丰富的表演艺术方面的图书。该楼开发商Extell公司的一位女发言人说，林肯中心悉心选购了《外国著名芭蕾舞剧故事》(101 Stories of the Great Ballets)、《哥伦比亚现代戏剧百科全书》(The Columbia encyclopedia of modern drama)、《电影的力量》(Celluloid Power)及其它三四十本书。而林肯中心的一位女发言人则谢绝谈及中心与Extell间的协议。
The library shelves at Toren, a new condo in Brooklyn, were populated with the help of the Strand bookstore in Greenwich Village, according to the building’s sales manager, Marco Auteri.  “We  requested a variety of books based on  quality and content,” he said. “We wanted to create a real library and to have a wide variety of genres.” 
布鲁克林区的一栋新公寓楼Toren的销售经理马可·阿乌代利(Marco Auteri)表示，他们的书是在格林威治村(Greenwich Village)的Strand书店帮助下就位的。“在保证质量和内容的基础上，我们购买了不同类型的图书，”他说，“我们希望打造一个真正的图书室，并拥有类型广泛的藏书。”
Thus, browsers can find among the 500-plus volumes everything from “Ulysses” to test prep guides. “Since residents began contributing to the library,” Mr. Auteri added, “they’ve increased the contents by 50 percent. And now, in addition to books, we also have DVDs and games.”
所以，在这里的500多本图书中，从《尤利西斯》(Ulysses)到备考指南，读者可以找到各种类型。“由于住户们把自己的书也送到这，”阿乌代利补充说，“他们已将这里的藏书数量增加了50%。而且，现在除了图书之外，我们还有DVD和游戏光碟。”
In older buildings, things are considerably more casual; the collections are crowd-sourced from the start. At the Ardsley on Central Park West, a few shelves in the combination community room/playroom constitute the library — a mix of fiction (“The Fountainhead”), poetry (“The Iliad”) and nonfiction donated and alphabetized by residents.
在比较老的住宅楼里，情况更加随意得多；藏书从一开始就是住户捐赠的。在中央公园西路上的Ardsley大楼里，社区活动厅兼游戏室里有几排书架，图书室就是由它们构成的——这里有住户捐赠的小说（《源泉》[The Fountainhead]）、诗歌（《伊利亚特》[The Iliad]）和非小说类图书，他们还将这些书按字母顺序排列起来。
Meanwhile, the collection at 924 West End Avenue — housed, as in many buildings, on several open shelves in the laundry room, includes “The World According to Garp” and “Ragtime.”
West End大道924号的藏书，则被摆放在洗衣房的几排开放式货架上，包括《加普的世界观》(The World According to Garp)和《拉格泰姆》(Ragtime)等等。很多其它住宅楼也这样做。
“Some people will come down and do their wash and while they’re waiting read one of the books,” said Raymond Hoey, the president of the building’s co-op board.
“有些人下楼来洗衣服，在等待的时候就会看看书。”West End大道924号的居民合作委会主席雷蒙德·霍伊(Raymond Hoey)说。
In a few buildings, like the Knickerbocker on East 72nd Street and 170 East End Avenue, the in-house libraries serve up more than biographies and bestsellers; they serve breakfast. “People will come down and read while they have bagels and pastries,” said Burt Wallack, the managing agent for the Knickerbocker which hires an outside service to do the catering. “A lot of residents know their neighbors because of the library.”
也有少数几栋公寓楼，比如东72街的Knickerbocker和East End大道170号，它们的图书室不仅提供传记和畅销书，而且还供应早餐。“人们会来看看书，同时享用百吉饼和酥皮糕点，”Knickerbocker的代管人伯特·华里克(Burt Wallack)说，“很多住户都是在图书室里认识了他们的邻居。”这项餐饮服务是华里克雇来的外包供应商提供的。
Orin Wilf, the president of Skyline, the developer of 170 East End Avenue, compared the building’s library to a town square. Residents have cocktail parties and birthday parties there, said Mr. Wilf, who lives in the building. He and his neighbors donate the books that make up the library’s collection; the concierge monitors the offerings to make sure they are suitable.
奥林·维尔夫(Orin Wilf)是房地产开发公司Skyline的总裁，开发了East End大道170号，他自己也住在这栋楼里。他把这里的图书室比作是小镇上的广场，居民们在这里开鸡尾酒会和庆祝生日。图书室的藏书来自他和邻居们的捐赠，门房会检查这些书籍，看看它们是否合适。
“We leave it to her discretion,” Mr. Wilf said. The collection is heavy on finance, history and parental advice because, he said, “we’re a family-friendly building.
维尔夫说：“合不合适由门房自行判断。”捐赠的图书主要是金融、历史和育儿建议方面的，因为就像他说的，“我们是一栋适合家庭居住的住宅楼”。
“I’m a big James Patterson fan and I usually leave his books in the library when I finish them,” he continued. “And sometimes someone will beat me to the punch. I’ll go down there and actually find a Patterson I haven’t already read.”
“我非常喜欢看詹姆斯·帕特森(James Patterson)的作品，通常看完之后我就会把它们放到图书室里，”他继续说，“有些时候，其他人比我更快一步。我会下楼来到图书室，发现一本我还没有读过的帕特森小说。”