An old joke about libraries goes like this: A boy walks into a library and asks for a burger and fries. “Young man!” the startled librarian reprimands. “You are in a library.” So the boy repeats his order, only this time, he whispers.
关于图书馆，有一个流传已久的笑话：一个男孩走进图书馆，点了一份汉堡和炸薯条。“年轻人！”震惊的图书管理员训斥道，“这里是图书馆！”于是，男孩又点了一次餐，不过，只不过，这次他放低了声音。
So much has changed in libraries in recent years that such a scene may not be so far-fetched. Many libraries have become bustling community centers where talking out loud and even eating are perfectly acceptable.
近年来，图书馆内发生了许多变化，这样的场景不再显得牵强附会。许多图书馆成了熙熙攘攘的社区活动中心，里面不仅讲话声音大，甚至连吃东西都是完全可接受的。
The Boston Public Library, which was founded in 1848 and is the oldest public urban library in the country, is moving rapidly in that direction. With a major renovation underway, this Copley Square institution is breaking out of its granite shell to show an airier, more welcoming side to the passing multitudes. Interior plans include new retail space, a souped-up section for teenagers, and a high-stool bar where patrons can bring their laptops and look out over Boylston Street.
作为全美历史最悠久的公共城市图书馆，成立于1848年的波士顿公共图书馆(Boston Public Library)正朝着这个方向快速发展。随着大翻修的进行，这座位于科普利广场(Copley Square)的图书馆正在冲破其花岗岩石壳，向经过的大众展现更加轻快与热情的一面。内部规划包括建立新的零售区、焕然一新的青少年区以及一个高凳吧台区。在吧台区，读者可以使用自带电脑，欣赏窗外的博伊尔斯顿街街景。
“You’ll be able to sit here and work and see the world go by,” said Amy Ryan, president of the library, on a recent tour. “We’re turning ourselves outward.”
 “你可以一边坐在这里工作，一边看着世界从身边经过，”图书馆馆长艾米·瑞恩(Amy Ryan)在最近一次参观中说。“我们正在与外界融合。”
Such plans might shock anyone who thought that in the digital age, libraries — those hushed sanctuaries of the past — had gone the way of the Postal Service.
对于那些认为过去如圣殿般安静的图书馆在当下的数字时代只能跟邮政业一样没落的人来说，这样的规划着实让人震惊。
“Just the opposite,” said Susan Benton, president and chief executive of the Urban Libraries Council. “Physical visits and virtual visits are off the charts.”
 “恰恰相反，”城市图书馆理事会(Urban Libraries Council)总裁兼首席执行官苏珊·本顿(Susan Benton)说。“来馆人数和网络访问量都打破了记录。”
At Boston’s central library alone, the number of physical visits jumped to 1.72 million in 2013, up by almost half a million from 2012.
仅在波士顿的中央图书馆，到馆人数就从2012年的近50万一跃至2013年的172万人次。
Library usage has increased across the country for a variety of reasons, librarians say, including the recession, the availability of new technology and because libraries have been reimagining themselves — a necessity for staying relevant as municipal budgets are slashed and e-books are on the rise. Among the more innovative is the Chicago Public Library, which offers a free Maker Lab, with access to 3-D printers, laser cutters and milling machines. The Lopez Island Library in Washington State offers musical instruments for checkout. In upstate New York, the Library Farm in Cicero, part of the Northern Onondaga Public Library, lends out plots of land on which patrons can learn organic growing practices.
图书管理员们说，全美图书馆使用率的增长源于一系列的原因，包括经济衰退、新技术的使用、以及图书馆对自身的形象重塑——为了在市政预算削减和电子书崛起的环境下与时俱进，这么做是十分必要的。最有创意的要属芝加哥公共图书馆(Chicago Public Library)，它的创客实验室(Maker Lab)向公众免费提供3D打印、激光切割机和铣床。在华盛顿州的洛佩兹岛图书馆(Lopez Island Library)提供乐器借用服务。作为北奥内达加公共图书馆(Northern Onondaga Public Library)的一部分，纽约上州西寒罗的图书馆农场(Library Farm)提供地块租用服务，使读者学习有机种植的方法。
Along with their new offerings, libraries are presenting a dramatically more open face to the outside world, using lots of glass, providing comfortable seating, as much for collaborative work as solitary pursuits, and allowing food and drink.
除了提供新服务，图书馆也正在向外界呈现一个更加引人注目的开放面貌：加大玻璃墙的面积，提供舒适的座位，既照顾了协同工作需求又不失对独处的追求，并且还允许在馆内饮食。
“This is what’s happening at a lot of libraries, the creation of an open, physical environment,” said Joe Murphy, a librarian and library futures consultant based in Reno, Nev. “The idea of being inviting isn’t just to boost attendance but to maximize people’s creativity.”
 “许多图书馆正在努力创造开放且舒适的环境，”内华达州里诺市的图书管理员兼顾问乔·墨菲(Joe Murphy)说。“让图书馆有魅力不仅在于吸引读者造访，更要最大程度地激发读者的创造力。
Libraries have long facilitated the “finding” of information, he said. “Now they are facilitating the creating of information.”
他说，长期以来，图书馆扮演了帮助“查找”信息的角色。“现在它们正向鼓励创造信息的方向发展。”
That will be evident at the Boston library’s new section for teenagers. Teen Central is to become what is known as “homago” space — where teenagers can “hang out, mess around and geek out.” It will include lounges, restaurant booths, game rooms and digital labs, as well as software and equipment to record music and create comic books. The vibe will be that of an industrial loft, with exposed pipes and polished concrete floors, what Ms. Ryan called “eco-urban chic.”
这一点从波士顿图书馆为青少年设置的新区域里可见一斑。青少年中心是为了成为大家熟知的“聚集”之处，在这里，青少年们可以“逛逛、玩玩或极客一下。”该区域里有歇息区、餐厅、游戏室、数字实验室，以及录制音乐和创建漫画书的软件与设备。里面的气氛将会像loft，头顶穿梭着管道，还有磨光的混凝土地板，瑞恩女士称其为“生态城市的时尚”。
“The sand is shifting under our business,” she said.
 “图书馆行业正在经历巨变，”她说。
“When I started out in the ’70s, you would walk up to the reference desk and ask a question and I would find an answer. Today it’s the opposite. People turn to librarians to help them sift through the 10 million answers they find on the Internet. We’re more like navigators.”
 “在上世纪70年代的时候，你到咨询台去问问题，然后找到答案。如今却截然相反。人们找图书管理员，是为了请他们帮忙筛选网上找到的上千万种答案。现在的我们更像是导航器。”
At least the Boston library will still feature books. One library, in San Antonio, has done away with them. The BiblioTech is nothing but rows of computers, e-readers and an “iPad bar.”
起码波士顿图书馆的特色还是实体图书。但圣安东尼奥的一所图书馆已经不再提供图书了。数字化图书馆BiblioTech里只有一排排的电脑、电子书阅读器和一个“iPad阅读吧”。
Its goal is the same as that of traditional libraries: To help patrons access information. But whether the community will take to it is another question. The Santa Rosa branch library in Tucson went all digital in 2002, but a few years later, it brought back books. A lot of content was not available digitally, and patrons wanted print.
它的目标与传统图书馆无异：帮助读者获取信息。但大众是否会买账则是另一个问题。图森的圣罗莎分馆在2002年已经实现了全数字化，但几年后，它又上架了实体图书。因为许多内容并没有电子版本，并且读者希望获得纸质书。
While e-books are gaining popularity, print is still king. In 2012, 28 percent of adults nationwide read an e-book, according to the Pew Research Center, while 69 percent read a print book. Only 4 percent of readers are “e-book only,” the center reported.
尽管电子书越来越流行，印刷本仍占主导地位。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)提供的数据显示，在2012年，全美有28%的成年人读电子书，而阅读印刷书的比例高达69%。皮尤研究中心称，只有4%的读者非电子书不读。
In Boston, the physical changes reflect the evolving nature of libraries. All renovations are to the Johnson building, designed by Philip Johnson and opened in 1972, when libraries were more monastic and inward looking.
波士顿图书馆的外观变化反应了其进化的本质。所有的翻新都是针对菲利普·约翰逊(Philip Johnson)设计的约翰逊大楼，它开放于1972年，当时的图书馆偏向于修道院式的内向型风格。
William L. Rawn III, the architect whose firm is overseeing the project, said his goal was the opposite, to “get the energy of the city into the library and the energy of the library out to the city.”
建筑师威廉·罗恩三世(William L. Rawn III)的公司目前负责管理该工程。他说，他的目标恰好相反，是为了“把城市的活力带进图书馆里，把图书馆的能量扩散到城市中。”
The Johnson building was built as an addition to the original, much-loved classic library, which contains stunning features like Bates Hall, its cathedral-like main reading room.
约翰逊大楼是原图书馆大楼的副楼，这幢经典的图书馆大楼深受大众喜爱，楼内有很多令人惊艳的设计，比如主阅读室——拥有大教堂风格的贝茨大厅(Bates Hall)。
The addition is an imposing, gray granite behemoth whose floor-to-ceiling windows are blocked from street view by 112 large vertical granite slabs that ring the outside of the building. The entryway is an empty cavern with all the warmth of an armed fortress.
副楼是雄伟的灰色花岗岩巨型建筑，大楼外用112块大型垂直花岗岩板围成一圈，挡住了落地窗外的街景。入口是一个空洞，让人感到武装要塞那般的寒意。
“The big granite walls inside are incredibly stultifying,” Mr. Rawn said. “That space is just a miserable space to walk through. It’s like you’re traversing a DMZ.”
 “巨大的花岗岩墙极其乏味，”罗恩先生说。“从那块地方走过简直可以用痛苦形容。就像在穿过隔离区(DMZ)一样。”
The reimagined lobby will have an open lounge area with new books and casual seating, and retail space, which could be anything, Ms. Ryan said, “from a coffee shop to a high-tech experimental outlet to an exercise space with stationary bikes.”
重新设计的大厅将会有一个开放的休息区，周围有新书、休闲座位和零售区。零售区可以有各种布置，瑞恩小姐说，“从咖啡店到高科技产品体验店到配有固定自行车的锻炼区。”
The exterior has been declared a landmark, so the Boston Landmarks Commission must approve each change. But plans now call for the removal of 95 of the granite slabs, so the lounge and retail space will be visible from the street, and for the tinted glass to be replaced with clear glass, brightening the interior.
其外观已经被认定为地标，因此任何更改必须由波士顿建筑委员会(Boston Landmarks Commission)批准。但现在的计划需要移除95块花岗岩板，这样才能从街上看到里面的休息区和零售区，并且要把彩色玻璃换成透明玻璃，使内部更明亮。