Seven marble columns from the Old Summer Palace in Beijing, acquired more than a century ago by a former Norwegian cavalry officer who had settled in China, are set to return home this fall under an agreement between a Norwegian museum and a Chinese businessman.
根据一家挪威博物馆与一名中国商人达成的协议，来自圆明园的七根汉白玉柱基将于今年秋季重归故里。这些石柱一个多世纪前由曾定居中国的一名挪威前骑兵军官购得。
The columns are part of a 2,500-piece collection of Chinese artifacts in the KODE Art Museums of Bergen that were donated by Johan Wilhelm Normann Munthe between 1907 and 1935.
柱基是曼德(Johan Wilhelm Normann Munthe)在1907年到1935年间捐献给卑尔根KODE美术馆(KODE Art Museums of Bergen)的2500件中国文物的一部分。
Under the terms of the agreement reached in December, Huang Nubo, a real estate developer perhaps best known outside of China for trying to purchase land in Iceland to build a golf resort, will donate 10 million Norwegian krone, about $1.6 million, to the museum.
根据去年12月达成的协议，地产商黄怒波将向该美术馆捐赠1000万挪威克朗，约合990万元人民币。在中国之外，黄怒波最为出名的举动或许是试图收购冰岛的一块土地，以用于修建高尔夫球度假村。
In return, the columns will be sent back to China this September and displayed at Peking University, Mr. Huang’s alma mater. The university, which is adjacent to the grounds of the Old Summer Palace, has also established an academic cooperation program with the museum.
作为回报，七根柱基将于今年9月归国，在黄怒波的母校北京大学展出。与圆明园遗迹毗邻的北京大学还与KODE美术馆共同设立了一个学术合作项目。
The deal comes as diplomatic ties between Norway and China remain frozen, after the Norwegian Nobel Committee’s decision to award the 2010 Peace Prize to the imprisoned Chinese democracy advocate Liu Xiaobo. The Chinese government, which sentenced Mr. Liu to an 11-year term in 2009 for “inciting subversion of state power,” reacted angrily to the Nobel decision, recalling its ambassador from Norway and shutting down trade talks.Mr. Huang’s donation will comprise half the amount the KODE has budgeted to refurbish its China exhibition space, said Erlend G. Hoyersten, the former director of the KODE Art Museums who has since become director of the ARos Aarhus Kunstmuseum in Denmark.
这项协议达成之时，挪威与中国的外交关系仍处于冷冻阶段。2010年，挪威诺贝尔委员会将该年度的和平奖授予了狱中的中国民主倡导人士刘晓波。此前一年，中国政府以“煽动颠覆国家政权”的罪名判处了他11年有期徒刑。中国政府对委员会的决定予以了愤怒的还击，召回了驻挪威大使，并中断了双方的贸易谈判。KODE美术馆的前馆长、现已成为丹麦ARos奥胡斯美术馆(ARos Aarhus Kunstmuseum)馆长的埃伦德·G·霍耶斯腾(Erlend G. Hoyersten)表示，黄怒波的捐款将为KODE翻修中国藏品区的预算提供一半资金。
According to Mr. Hoyersten, the museum’s decision was made after lengthy discussions on how to manage its China collection, one of the most extensive in Europe.
KODE的中国文物馆藏的规模在欧洲居于前列。根据霍耶斯腾的说法，该馆对如何管理旗下的中国藏品进行了长时间的讨论，最终做出这样的决定。
“For many, many years the museum had 21 columns but was displaying only seven, due to space limits,” Mr. Hoyersten said in an interview. “I thought, if we’re not allowed to use the items in our collection, then other people should have the opportunity to enjoy them.”
“美术馆藏有21根石柱，但很多、很多年来，由于空间有限，只能展出七根，”霍耶斯腾接受采访称。“我想，既然我们没法将自己馆藏的艺术品物尽其用，那么应当让其他人拥有欣赏它们的机会。”
A burglary at the museum in January 2013, when thieves made off with more than two dozen objects from the China collection, left considerable damage. It was the second recent theft from the collection, following a break-in in 2010, and led to its closure.Mr. Huang, chairman of the Zhongkun Investment Group, said by email that he had heard that the museum’s China exhibit area needed repairs, and was fascinated that its collection included pillars from the Old Summer Palace. He agreed to sponsor the museum after meeting Mr. Hoyersten at a cultural event last year.
2013年1月，KODE遭窃，被盗走了二十余件中国文物，蒙受了不小的损失。这是该馆的中国藏品近年来第二次失窃——2010年曾经历一次入室偷盗——并导致了闭馆。中坤投资集团董事长黄怒波在电子邮件中称，他之前获悉KODE的中国藏品区需要翻修，自己又因为馆藏中包括圆明园石柱而着了迷。在去年的一项文化活动中与霍耶斯腾会面后，他答应资助该馆。
Though few in Norway, or even his hometown of Bergen, know his name, the museum owes much of its China collection to Mr. Munthe.
尽管在挪威，甚至是在家乡卑尔根，都没什么人听说过曼德的大名，但KODE美术馆的中国文物藏品大部分要归功于他。
Mr. Munthe began his career as a cavalry officer in the Norwegian army, but in 1886 made his way to China, where he worked in the Chinese customs service. He fought on the Chinese side in the 1894-95 Sino-Japanese War and was named a lieutenant general by Yuan Shikai, who would later become the first president of the Republic of China.
曼德起初是挪威陆军的骑兵军官，1886年设法来到中国，供职于大清国的海关。1894年到1895年的中日甲午战争期间，他为中方而战，并被后来成为中华民国首任总统的袁世凯授予陆军中将军衔。
Mr. Munthe became an avid collector of Chinese sculpture, pottery and other artifacts, including the seven plinths. It is unclear how he obtained them.The marble columns, featuring carvings of flowers and foliage, were once part of the vast imperial compound, renowned for its beauty, called the Old Summer Palace. The destruction and looting of the palace grounds by British and French forces in 1860, during the Second Opium War, is seen by many in China today as a pivotal event among the foreign incursions of the 19th and 20th centuries. Efforts to return relics from the site are often discussed with nationalistic overtones, cast as markers of China’s return to prominence after its “century of humiliation” by foreign powers.
曼德开始热心收藏中国雕像和陶瓷等艺术品，其中包括这七根柱基。它们流入曼德手中的途径并不清楚。汉白玉的石柱上雕着花草图案，来自以美景闻名的大型皇家园林圆明园。第二次鸦片战争期间，英法联军于1860年洗劫并摧毁了圆明园，这在今天被许多中国人视为19世纪和20世纪列强入侵的标志性事件。将圆明园文物追回的努力，讨论起来往往带有民族主义意味，被描绘为中国被列强“羞辱一个世纪”后重获荣光的标志。
However, Mr. Hoyersten and Mr. Huang insist that theirs is a purely nongovernmental agreement.
不过，霍耶斯腾和黄怒波坚持表示，他们的协议是一个纯粹的非政府协议。
“This is not a political action,” Mr. Hoyersten said. “If it has any positive impact then that’s great, but that’s not our goal.”
“这不是政治举动，”霍耶斯腾说。“如果说它会产生一些积极影响就太好了，但这并不是我们的目标。”
Mr. Huang said that his decision to donate to the museum was a personal one, but he also sounded an optimistic note regarding relations between China and Norway. “Spring will always come,” he wrote. “Bilateral relations cannot be frozen forever.”
黄怒波说，他向博物馆捐赠的决定完全是个人意愿，他在提到中挪两国的关系时乐观地指出。“春天总会来的，”他写道，“两国关系也不可能永远结冰。”
The Norwegian Foreign Ministry spokesman Svein A. Michelsen said the government is not a party to the project, but is glad of the “happy outcome.”
挪威外交部发言人斯韦恩·A·米克尔森(Svein A. Michelsen)说，政府并没有参与该项目，但是对这种“幸福的结局”感到高兴。
Norway’s foreign minister, Borge Brende, who took office in October, has cited improved ties with China as a priority. His previous experience as an adviser to the Chinese government on environmental issues may help pave the way, but the Chinese side has so far stood firm.
于去年10月上任的挪威外长博尔格·布伦德(Borge Brende)说改善与中国的关系是当务之急。他此前曾在环保问题上为中国政府提供建议，这个经历或许有所帮助，但中国目前的立场很坚定。
“That Foreign Minister Borge Brende and Prime Minister Li Keqiang are close friends makes no difference,” a Chinese Foreign Affairs Ministry official said in October, according to the Danish newspaper Kristeligt Dagblad. “Norway has created this situation, and Norway will have to solve it.”
“外长博尔格·布伦德与李克强总理是好朋友这一点也不能改变什么，”据丹麦语报纸《基督教日报》报道，中国外交部的一名官员在10月这样表示。“这种局面是挪威造成的，它必须解决这个问题。”
In recent years, some in Norway have questioned whether the government should have so openly endorsed the Nobel Committee’s decision, said Ulf Sverdrup, director of the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, a research organization. The Nobel Committee is not connected with the Norwegian government.
研究机构挪威国际事务研究所(Norwegian Institute of International Affairs)所长乌尔夫·斯韦德鲁普(Ulf Sverdrup)说，近年来，挪威有人开始质疑政府是否应该如此公开地认可诺贝尔委员会的决定。诺贝尔委员会与挪威政府并无关联。
“Some say that the economic costs are too great,” Mr. Sverdrup said in an interview. “Others say the government put too much emphasis on human rights and should recognize other enormous developments and achievements in China.”
“有人说经济代价太高，”斯韦德鲁普在采访中说。“还有人则表示，政府对人权问题的关注有些过度，他们应该认识到中国其他方面的巨大发展和成就。”
Although China is hardly Norway’s most important trading partner, it is still significant and Beijing’s economic pressure has been felt, he said. “There have probably been a lot of lost opportunities.”
他说，虽然中国并非挪威最重要的贸易伙伴，但他们仍然能明显感觉到来自北京的经济压力。“或许已经错过了许多机会。”
Apart from the political tangles in this particular deal, the rightful ownership of historical artifacts is a thorny issue in itself, and not only in China.
撇开此次交易中的政治博弈不论，历史文物的合理归属本身就是个棘手的问题，而且这个问题不仅存在于中国。
Mr. Hoyersten said discussions at KODE considered possible reactions of other European museums, but maintained that the decision was based “not only on ethical but also practical considerations.”
霍耶斯腾说，KODE美术馆的讨论也考虑了其他欧洲博物馆的反应，但他们坚持认为，这个决定“不仅建立在道德，而且还建立在实际考虑”的基础上。
“We’re not telling other museums that you should return your collections,” he said.
他说，“我们不是要告诉其他博物馆，你们应该把收藏的东西还回去。”
Although KODE has a significant collection, it is dwarfed by the vast holdings of Chinese antiquities, including from the Old Summer Palace, in some British and French museums.
虽然KODE美术馆藏品甚多，但是与一些英国和法国博物馆的中国文物（其中也包括来自圆明园的文物）相比，KODE仍然相形见绌。
In 2003, a Chinese government-affiliated foundation established a fund to “aid the government to promote the inflow of overseas national treasures,” according to a website managed by the Ministry of Culture. The foundation has organized trips to foreign museums to catalog relics and to negotiate for their return. State-owned companies and private businessmen have also gotten involved. The Macau casino tycoon Stanley Ho was praised by Chinese state media as a patriot for buying two bronze animal heads that had been taken from the Old Summer Palace for nearly $10 million and donating them to Chinese museums.
根据一个隶属于中国文化部的网站，2003年，一个与中国政府有关的组织成立了一个“协助政府推动海外国宝回流”的基金会。基金会还组织人到国外的博物馆登记文物，并协商归还事宜。一些国企和私企商人也在参与此事。此前，澳门赌王何鸿燊(Stanley Ho)以将近1000万美元的价格买下了两尊圆明园铜制兽首，并将其捐给了中国的博物馆，中国官方媒体赞扬他这是爱国行为。
The huge sums paid for such objects have led to a debate about whether their importance is overplayed. Chen Lusheng, deputy director of the National Museum of China, once dismissed the bronze heads, part of a water clock designed by an Italian Jesuit, as “water faucets made by foreigners” and not national treasures, according to Xinhua. Others, however, argue that they hold great symbolic value for China.
为这类物品所花费的大量资金令人们开始争论它们的重要性是不是被夸大了。据新华社报道，中国国家博物馆副馆长陈履生曾表示，这些铜制兽首——它们是一名意大利籍耶稣会信徒设计的水力钟构件——是“外国人制造的水龙头”，不是国宝。但其他人却认为，它们对中国而言具有巨大的象征意义。
The Chinese State Administration of Cultural Heritage, an agency under the Culture Ministry that oversees museums, did not respond to a request for comment regarding the return of the columns.
隶属于文化部的国家文物局是负责博物馆的机构，它没有回应对归还柱基置评的请求。
Though the timing of their return will fall close to the 60th anniversary in October of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Norway and China, Mr. Huang said this was unintended. The original idea was to transport the relics in June, he said, but this was revised because the Norwegian side will be taking summer holidays then.
在归还柱基之时，挪威和中国也即将在10月迎来两国建交60周年的纪念日，黄怒波说这是巧合。他说，他们原本打算在6月运送文物，但是由于挪威方面当时处于暑假期间，所以便改了时间。