SOMA, Turkey — As hopes began to fade for hundreds of coal miners still trapped underground in a hellish explosion, anti-government protests broke out across the country on Wednesday while victims’ families demanded answers in what is emerging as perhaps the worst industrial accident in the country’s history.
土耳其索马——在一场惨烈的爆炸事故发生后，随着数百名仍然被困井下的矿工生还的希望逐渐黯淡，本周三，土耳其全国各地爆发了反政府抗议活动，而受害者家属则要求获知一些问题的答案。这起矿难似乎将成为该国历史上最严重的工业事故。
Thousands of people have gathered here in Soma, the nearest town, in hopes of getting news of relatives and friends who are unaccounted for. Their frustrations erupted in a rock-throwing protest in front of the headquarters of the ruling Justice and Development Party of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan that was broken up by the police in clouds of tear gas. Demonstrations also broke out in Ankara, the capital, and in Istanbul.
数以千计的人们聚集在事故发生地最近的城镇索马，希望获得下落不明的亲朋的消息。饱受挫折之后，他们前往总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)率领的执政党“正义与发展党”(Justice and Development Party)的总部前投掷石块，进行抗议，警察使用大量催泪瓦斯驱散了抗议者。伊斯坦布尔和首都安卡拉也爆发了示威活动。
Many relatives of the miners have complained about a lack of information from the government and local emergency agencies. “No official came here to talk to us, explain what’s going on,” Ayse, the aunt of a 25-year old miner, who asked not to be identified by name.
很多矿工家属都抱怨政府和地方应急机构没有提供足够信息。“没有哪个官员到这里来跟我们解释情况，”艾谢(Ayse)说，她是一名25岁矿工的阿姨，要求记者不要透露她的全名。
Near the mine entrance, mournful family members watched mostly in silence as rescue workers slowly removed bodies, some of them charred, from the mine’s fiery and poisonous depths. As the rescue operation dragged on, the official death toll rose to 274, and a senior official said hopes of finding survivors were “dimming.”
在矿井入口处附近，悲伤的家属大部分时候只是默默看着救援人员从灼热的、充满毒气的矿井深处缓缓抬出尸体，一些尸体已被烧焦。就在救援行动缓慢进行的过程中，官方统计的死亡人数已经上升至274人，一名高级官员表示，找到幸存者的希望正在“破灭”。
More than 200 miners were thought to be underground still, after an explosion in a power distribution unit on Tuesday afternoon set off a fire that was still burning on Wednesday. The death toll was the highest ever in a Turkish mining disaster, surpassing the 263 workers who died in a gas explosion in at a mine near Zonguldak on the Black Sea in 1992.
井下可能还有200余名矿工。本周二下午，一个配电设备发生爆炸，引发了大火，直到周三仍在燃烧。现在统计的死亡人数已经创下了土耳其矿难的最高记录。1992年时，263工人在黑海旁的宗古尔达克附近一个矿井的瓦斯爆炸中丧生。
“We are worried that this death toll will rise,” the energy minister, Taner Yildiz, told reporters in Soma, 75 miles northeast of the Aegean port of Izmir. “I have to say that our hopes are dimming in terms of the rescue efforts.”
“我们很担心这个数字还会继续上升，”土耳其能源部长塔内尔·耶尔德兹(Taner Yildiz)在索马对记者说，该镇位于爱琴海海港伊兹密尔东北75英里处。“我不得不说，我们在救援工作方面的希望正在破灭。”
The dirt road leading here would normally be used by trucks loaded with tons of coal. On Wednesday, however, military police had set up a cordon and it resembled a huge parking lot for ambulances, police vehicles and private cars.
通往这里的土路上通常行驶的是运煤卡车。但是本周三，军警设立了警戒线，现在它看上去像一个巨大的停车场，里面停满了救护车、警车和私家车。
Miners with hard hats, their clothes smeared in dirt and dust, wiped sweat and grime from their faces as they walked away from the rescue site, looking exhausted and overwhelmed.
戴着安全帽的矿工，衣服上沾着尘土，从救援现场离开时，他们擦着脸上的汗水和污垢，看上去不堪重负、筋疲力竭。
“We came here as soon as we heard about an explosion,” said a 28-year-old miner whose cousin was trapped inside. “We saved many but most of the stranded were dead. I don’t want to say more.” The miner refused to give his name because he said he needed approval from his employer.
“我们一听到发生爆炸就赶到这里来了，”一个28岁的矿工说，他的亲戚被困在了井下。“我们救了很多人，但大多数被困井中的人都死了。我不想多说什么了。”这名矿工拒绝透露自己的名字，因为他说那需要矿主批准。
Some of them confirmed officials’ fears about further fatalities.
一些人证实了官员们对死亡人数进一步增加的恐惧。
“Even after only two sections, where machines and people operated together, were emptied, the death toll is still higher than what has been announced,” said Ertan Yildiz, a miner who has been assisting emergency workers. “There are other sections where we entirely rely on manpower and have no idea how many people were stuck there at time of the blast.”
“即使只清理了两个部分，死亡人数就已经比公布的高，而且这两个部分还是机器和人协同作业的，”一直在协助救援工作的矿工尔坦·伊迪兹(Ertan Yildiz)说，“其他一些部分完全依靠人力作业，不知道爆炸发生时有多少人困在那里。”
By Wednesday, 360 workers had been brought to safety by hundreds of rescuers, including some miners who had survived the explosion, according to the semiofficial Anadolu News Agency. But some parts of the facility remained inaccessible.
到周三时，已经有360名旷工被数百名救援人员安全救出，其中包括一些从爆炸中幸存下来的矿工，据半官方的阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu)报道。但矿井的某些部分仍然无法进入。
“Even with a gas mask, it is hard to survive,” Sami Kilic, a miner who has been working at the Soma mine for nine years, told the news channel CNN Turk. “When a power distribution unit explodes, power goes off; when power goes off, ventilation breaks down; when ventilation breaks down, air circulation stops, and so do chances to live.”
“即使有防毒面具，也很难活下来，”矿工萨米·克勒奇(Sami Kilic)告诉CNN土耳其新闻频道说，他已经在索马的煤矿工作了九年。“如果配电装置发生爆炸，电源就没有了；没有了电源，通风设备就运转不了；通风设备不能运转，就不会有空气流通，人也就没法生存了。”
Mr. Kilic said that miners were trained to use gas masks in emergencies on the assumption that they would reach fresh air in 45 minutes.
克勒奇说，矿工们受过在紧急情况发生时使用防毒面具的训练，但那是假设可以在45分钟后呼吸到新鲜空气。
“We received training as to how to reach up to fresh air in 45 minutes wearing a gas mask,” Mr. Kilic said. “You cannot climb up 1.5 kilometers in 45 minutes.”
“我们接受了如何戴着防毒面具，在45分钟内找到新鲜空气的培训，”克勒奇说，“但你没法在45分钟内向上爬1.5公里。”
Bayram Yilmaz, a 44-year old miner who recently quit working, said the death toll was much higher than officials had announced. “At least 770 people went down, and none of us could yet reach the exact location of the blast,” he said.
拜拉姆·耶尔马兹(Bayram Yilmaz)是一名44岁的矿工，最近辞去了工作，他说死亡人数远高于官方宣布的数字。“下去了至少770人，我们至今还没能到达爆炸的具体位置，”他说。
“We are not even counting outsiders who come here as part-time, unregistered workers,” Mr. Yilmaz said.
“这还没有算上来这里当兼职的，没有登记在案的人，”耶尔马兹说。