ISTANBUL — Even as he faced sweeping antigovernment protests last summer and a stinging corruption investigation that challenged his rule, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan held close to the notion that voters had put him in office and would do so again.
伊斯坦布尔——即便去年夏天面临着大规模的反政府抗议，以及一场恼人的挑战他统治的腐败调查，土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)仍坚称是选民们将他选上台的，并且他们会再次这么做。
On Sunday, voters delivered what appeared to be another resounding victory for his Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party, or A.K.P., in local elections that had taken on national importance as a referendum on Mr. Erdogan’s 11 years in power. The result was likely to embolden Mr. Erdogan to seek to extend his time in power, either by running for the presidency this year or by altering the rules of his party to stand for a fourth term as prime minister.
周日，在地方选举中，选民们似乎又为他深植于伊斯兰教主义的正义与发展党（Justice and Development Party，简称AKP）带来了一次彻底的胜利。这次的地方选举具有国家层面的重要意义，类似于对埃尔多安11年的统治举行的公投。投票结果可能会促使埃尔多安更加大胆地谋求延长其执政时间，或者通过参加今年总统竞选，或者通过修改本党规则，第四次出任总理。
“This nation has given a message to Turkey and to the world,” Mr. Erdogan proclaimed in an emotional late-night victory speech in Ankara, the capital, in front of thousands of supporters. “They said this nation will not bow and Turkey will not be defeated.”
“国民已经向土耳其和全世界传达出了一条讯息，”埃尔多安深夜在首都安卡拉对数千名支持者发表了动情的获胜演讲，“他们说这个国家的人民不会屈服，土耳其不会被打败。”
In claiming victory, Mr. Erdogan, who has cast the protests and the corruption investigation as the work of foreign conspirators, also hinted at more turmoil to come for Turkey. He took direct aim at those he believes have been targeting him and his government: the followers of the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania and whose followers have occupied positions in the police and the judiciary and are said to be leading the corruption investigation.
在宣布获胜时，将抗议和腐败调查说成是出自外国阴谋策划者之手的埃尔多安暗示，土耳其会出现更多骚动。他直指穆斯林神职人员费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的追随者，认为这些人视他本人和他领导的政府为攻击目标。居伦目前在美国宾夕法尼亚州过着自我流放的生活，其追随者有的在土耳其警界和司法界任职，据说领导那场腐败调查的正是他们。
In his speech, Mr. Erdogan repeatedly mentioned Pennsylvania, and suggested the government would forcefully target Mr. Gulen’s network of supporters in Turkey, possibly with mass arrests.
在演讲中，埃尔多安多次提到宾夕法尼亚州，暗示政府会大力针对居伦支持者组成的网络，可能会进行大范围逮捕。
“Tomorrow, there will be those who have to flee,” he said. “I have personally made criminal complaints against some of them, and they may flee.”
“明天，那些人将四散而逃，”他说，“我个人已经对其中一些人提起了刑事指控，他们可能会逃走。”
While official results had not been released by the time Mr. Erdogan claimed victory, preliminary results reported by news outlets showed victories in Istanbul and a close race in Ankara — the two most-important individual contests — as well as a nationwide plurality that exceeded the A.K.P.’s nearly 39 percent in the last local elections in 2009.
尽管在埃尔多安声称获胜时，正式结果尚未公布，但新闻媒体报道的初步结果显示，埃尔多安领导的政党在伊斯坦布尔的投票中获胜，在安卡拉的投票中与对手势均力敌——这两个地区的选战是最重要的较量——而且他领导的政党在全国范围获得的简单多数票超过了AKP上次在2009年的地方选举中所获的近39%。
The elections were for mayors and other local officials — Mr. Erdogan himself was not on the ballot — but he campaigned aggressively, and framed the contest as a referendum on the corruption allegations and, more generally, on his time in power.
这次的选举是为了选出市长和其他地方官员——埃尔多安自己的名字并不在选票上——但他大力奔走游说，将这次的较量定义成一次全民公投，检验人民对腐败指控以及他在任期的总体表现持何种态度。
The election’s outcome is by no means the last word on Turkey’s recent turmoil. Instead, the country appears to be entering an even more uncertain period as it faces two more important votes, a presidential election in the summer and parliamentary elections next year, and awaits a decision by Mr. Erdogan about his own political future.
这次选举的结果绝不会结束土耳其最近出现的混乱。相反，在即将举行两场更重要的选举——分别将于今年夏天和明年举行的总统选举和议会选举——并等待埃尔多安就自己的政治前途做出决定之际，土耳其似乎正在进入一个更不稳定的时期。
Turkey has become a place of distinct and competing national narratives, with seemingly little space for reconciliation. On one side is a prime minister, as much a class warrior as an Islamist, who enjoys the support of a religiously conservative base that represents nearly half the country and was once oppressed under a secular elite. On the other side are opponents of various stripes — urban intellectuals, secular-minded Turks, nationalists — who are united only in their opposition to Mr. Erdogan.
土耳其已经变成了一个民族说法迥异且彼此不相容的地方，而且似乎没有和解的余地。一方是总理，既是一名阶级斗士，也是一名伊斯兰教主义者，拥有占全国人口近一半、曾受世俗派精英压迫的宗教保守派选民基础。另一方是形形色色的反对者——城市知识分子、持世俗思想的土耳其人、民族主义者——这些人只会在反对埃尔多安这一点上达成一致。
The opposition Republican People’s Party, or C.H.P., a secular party founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the father of modern Turkey, sought to channel the grievances against Mr. Erdogan and expand its constituency in this election, but the results suggest an uncertain future for the prime minister’s political opponents.
反对党、由现代土耳其之父穆斯塔法·凯末尔·阿塔图尔克(Mustafa Kemal Ataturk)创立的世俗党派共和人民党（Republican People's Party，简称CHP）企图利用人们对埃尔多安的不满，来增加自己在这次选举中的支持人数，但结果却显示，埃尔多安对手们的前景变数重重。
“This is the first time I’ve voted in local elections,” said Alican Sapci, 62, who voted in Istanbul. “I’m voting for the A.K.P. because I’m terrified of what will happen if the C.H.P. came back to power. We lived like peasants under their rule, walking on streets cleaning rubbish, hiding our wives at home because they wear head scarves. I don’t think the A.K.P. is perfect, but there is a future under their rule for my grandchildren.”
“这是我第一次参加地方选举的投票，”在伊斯坦布尔投票的、62岁的阿利詹·萨普吉(Alican Sapci)说道。“我投票支持AKP，因为我担心一旦CHP重新掌权，不知道会发生什么。CHP执政时期，我们活得像贱农一般，到大街上清扫垃圾，也因为妻子戴头巾不得不把她们藏在家里。我不认为AKP是完美无瑕的，但是在他们的统治之下，我的孙子孙女一代还有希望。”
Opponents of Mr. Erdogan’s have increasingly come to resent what they regard as his authoritarian turn and the increased role of religion in politics under his government, not to mention the allegations of corruption.
反对埃尔多安的人称他走上了独裁道路，对这以及对他政府治理下宗教加大了对政治的影响，他们已表现出了越来越强烈的不满，更不用说对他的种种腐败指控。
Voting against Mr. Erdogan’s party “is the first step toward getting rid of corruption, reclaiming our freedoms, and remembering our humanity,” said Ali Terzi, 43, who voted in Ankara. “More importantly, it’s a strong stance against the manipulation of religion.”
投票反对埃尔多安的政党“是向着消除腐败、重获自由和勿忘人性迈出的第一步”，43岁、在安卡拉投票的阿里·泰尔齐(Ali Terzi)说。“更重要的是，这表达出反对利用宗教的强烈立场。”
Mr. Erdogan has been embroiled in the political fight of his life, fending off corruption charges that he has blamed on the followers of Mr. Gulen, a onetime ally, who has denied the charges. The results suggested that while the followers of Mr. Gulen, who operates schools and news media outlets in Turkey, may have influence within the state, they do not have the numbers to swing elections.
埃尔多安已经陷入了此生最为严峻的一场政治斗争，面临各种腐败的指责。他声称居伦——他曾经的盟友——的支持者要对此负责。但居伦已否认了这些控告。居伦在土耳其经营着学校和新闻媒体。结果显示，虽然他的追随者们可能在政权内有一定的影响力，但他们却没有所需的资金来左右选举。
Mr. Erdogan has labeled the so-called Gulenists a “parallel state” and has taken aggressive steps to remove them from positions of influence, purging thousands of police officers and hundreds of prosecutors. He has clamped down in other ways, attracting intense international criticism for banning Twitter and YouTube, and passing a law that gives the government more control over the courts.
埃尔多安称所谓的居伦主义者为一个“平行的政权”，他在采取激烈的措施，让他们不再担任要职，并清洗数以千计的警察和数以百计的检察官。他还以其他方式实施打击，因为禁止在土耳其使用Twitter和YouTube，以及通过法律赋予政府对法院更大的控制权，而引来国际社会的批评。
The power struggle with Mr. Gulen has upended Turkish politics, historically defined by the divisions between the secular and religious, by exposing a new fault line between two Islamist traditions that once united to push the military from politics through a series of sensational, and highly contentious, trials.
与居伦的权力斗争暴露了两种伊斯兰传统间的新断层，从而使历来以世俗派和宗教团体划分的土耳其政坛陷入混乱。这两种伊斯兰传统曾团结一致，通过一系列引起轰动且极具争议的审判，将军方赶出政坛。
For a country once celebrated as a bastion of stability in a chaotic region, Election Day was anything but. As early results were being reported by the news media, opposing candidates claimed victory and alleged manipulation. Electricity cuts in important districts were reported just as votes were being counted. Antigovernment news websites went down, apparently the victims of cyberattacks. Sporadic violence left eight people dead in clashes in villages in the south and southeast that appeared related to local rivalries. Feminist activists interrupted voting at the polling station where Mr. Erdogan cast his ballot — although not when he was there — by baring their breasts.
在这样一个纷争不断的地区，土耳其曾以其稳定著称，但选举日当天却看不出任何稳定的迹象。随着新闻媒体开始报告初步结果，各方候选人纷纷开始宣布胜利，并指责对方操控选举。据报道，在一些重要地区，计票过程中出现了断电。反政府的新闻网站显然是受到了网络攻击，出现崩溃。在南部和东南部的村庄爆发了似乎与当地派系斗争有关的冲突，零星的暴力活动已导致八人死亡。女权主义活动人士在埃尔多安投下选票的投票站露出她们的胸部，中断了选举，不过当时埃尔多安并不在场。