ISTANBUL — On Saturday, Turkey woke up to happy news: The 49 Turks held hostage in Iraq by the Islamic State for 101 days had finally been released. When they arrived in Ankara with a delegation headed by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, the survivors were welcomed by family members who had feared that they would never see them again.
伊斯坦布尔——周六，土耳其迎来了好消息：在伊拉克境内被伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）扣押了101天的49名土耳其人质终于获释。当他们跟随由总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)率领的代表团抵达安卡拉时，迎接他们的是原本担心再也见不到他们的家属。
The hostages were captured by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, on June 10, when the terrorist group occupied the northern Iraqi city of Mosul and raided the Turkish Consulate, the last remaining diplomatic mission there.
这些人质是6月10日被ISIS劫持的。当时，这个恐怖组织占领了伊拉克北部的摩苏尔市，突袭了仍然留在那里的唯一的外交机构——土耳其领事馆。
How the release was achieved has not been fully disclosed yet. Turkey’s newly elected president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, told the press that there had been a “bargain” but “not a monetary one.” Reportedly, indirect contacts with the Islamic State through Sunni tribes in Mosul were crucial. Turkish media now claims that there was an exchange of Islamic State prisoners held by a moderate Syrian rebel faction with apparent ties to Turkey. It seems that Ankara’s hesitancy in joining the anti-ISIS military collation led by the United States paid off. No wonder the self-proclaimed “caliph,” Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, reportedly said that Turkish hostages were released “with the condition of Turkey not joining the Crusader alliance.”
目前尚未完全披露释放人质的协议是如何达成的。土耳其新任总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)告诉媒体，双方一直在“讨价还价”，但“与金钱无关”。据称，土耳其通过摩苏尔的逊尼派部落与ISIS进行的非正式接触起到了关键作用。土耳其媒体目前的说法是，这些人质是用叙利亚温和反对派控制的ISIS囚犯交换的，而这一派别似乎与土耳其存在关联。此外，安卡拉不愿加入美国领导的反ISIS军事联盟的态度看来也起到了作用。这就难怪自称“哈里发”的阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)据传曾表示，释放土耳其人质的条件是“土耳其不加入十字军联盟”。
But now that the hostages are freed, the pressing question is: Will Turkey be more willing to take part in the anti-ISIS alliance?
鉴于人质已获释，一个迫在眉睫的问题是：土耳其如今会不会有更大的意愿来加入反ISIS联盟？
Probably yes. After all, the Islamic State poses a major threat to Turkey. Ankara had a black-and-white perception of the Syrian civil war during its first two years, condemning only the ruthless regime of Bashar al-Assad while supporting virtually all rebel parties, including jihadist factions. “The Turkish authorities thought they could work with extremist Islamist groups in the Syrian civil war and at the same time push them to become more moderate,” Francis Ricciardone, the former American ambassador to Turkey, told journalists earlier this month. But as the Islamic State emerged with an unforeseen fanaticism and bloodlust in mid-2013, Ankara began to wake up to the threat.
也许的确如此。毕竟，ISIS对土耳其构成了重大威胁。在叙利亚内战的头两年，安卡拉的态度一直爱憎分明：它只谴责巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的残忍政权，不加区分地支持几乎所有反对派，包括圣战派别。“土耳其当局认为自己可以在叙利亚内战中与伊斯兰主义极端组织合作，同时促使它们变得更加温和，”前美国驻土耳其大使弗朗西斯· 里恰尔多内(Francis Ricciardone)本月早些时候告诉记者。然而，随着ISIS在2013年年中冒头，并表现出了让人意外的狂热和杀戮欲，安卡拉开始意识到了威胁。
In the past year, both official statements and the views from the pro-government media show that the Islamic State is viewed in Ankara as a traitor to the Free Syria cause — that it only helped defame the revolution and legitimize the Assad regime. In collaboration with its Western allies, Turkey also became more careful about foreign fighters, and has captured 830 European citizens who attempted to enter Syria via Turkey to join the Islamic State.
过去一年，官方的多次表态以及亲政府媒体的观点都显示出，ISIS如今被安卡拉视为叙利亚解放事业的叛徒——它所做的，只是抹黑这场革命，并使阿萨德政权合法化。在与西方盟友的合作中，土耳其对外国武装人员的态度变得更加谨慎，目前已抓获了830名试图通过土耳其进入叙利亚以加入ISIS的欧洲公民。
Ideologically, as well, the Islamic State is an abomination for both the Turkish government and the overwhelming majority of Turkish society — which, despite some illiberal tendencies, subscribes to a peaceful and pro-democratic understanding of Islam. It’s true that the Islamic State gathers recruits from Turkey, as recently reported in the Times, but the group gains even more recruits from Britain, France and Russia.
此外，在意识形态方面，ISIS也受到土耳其政府和绝大多数土耳其民众的厌恶。尽管存在一些反自由主义倾向，但土耳其社会认同伊斯兰教的和平和亲民主内涵。的确，正如《纽约时报》最近报道的那样，ISIS从土耳其招募人员，但其更多外部成员来自英国、法国和俄罗斯。
Yet, even after the freeing of the hostages, there is one risk that may restrain Turkey in its actions against ISIS: its extreme vulnerability to terrorist attacks. The territory controlled by the Islamic State extends from northern Syria to central Iraq, but there is only one country that it borders: Turkey. Moreover, this long border is permeable, mostly because of Turkey’s humane policy of welcoming every refugee. Consequently, more than 1.5 million refugees have poured into Turkey in the last three years, with more than 130,000 in the past week. It is very hard to determine who is a real refugee and who is a fighter — and if so, a fighter for whom?
然而，即使是人质得到释放之后，土耳其针对ISIS的行动可能仍会受到一个风险因素的限制：它极易遭受恐怖袭击。ISIS控制的土地从叙利亚北部延伸到伊拉克中部，但这片区域只与一个国家相邻，那就是土耳其。此外，这条长长的边界是可渗透的，这主要是因为土耳其有一项富于同情心的政策：它欢迎所有难民。因此，在过去三年里，已有超过150万难民进入土耳其，过去一周入境的难民人数在13万以上。很难确定谁是真正的难民，谁是武装人员——如果是后者，又在为哪方而战？。
In an event that laid bare Turkey’s vulnerability, two car bombs killed 51 people in Reyhanli, a Turkish town near the Syrian border, on May 11, 2013. Although the government blamed the Assad regime for the attack, the real culprits are still unknown, and they could have been connected to jihadist groups.
2013年5月11日，靠近叙利亚的土耳其边境城镇雷伊汉勒发生了两起汽车爆炸事件，导致51人死亡，这一事件让土耳其的脆弱性显露无疑。尽管安卡拉将袭击归咎于阿萨德政府，但真正的罪魁祸首仍然未知，而他们可能与圣战组织有关。
While the United States can bomb Islamic State targets and still feel relatively safe 6,000 miles away, Turkey has to reckon with the possible local backlashes of joining the anti-ISIS military campaign. Some fear that if Turkey gets too involved, bombs might start exploding in Turkish cities — detonated by fighters for the Islamic State who cross the border, or even by ISIS cells within. If Turkey chooses to stay silent and keeps a low profile due to such fears, Western policy makers and commentators should not view this caution as a betrayal of the West or interpret it as a sign of sympathy for the terrorist group.
美国可以轰炸ISIS目标，并在6000英里以外的地方感受到相对的安全，土耳其却必须斟酌加入反ISIS军事行动可能在国内造成的负面影响。一些人担心，如果土耳其过多地参与此事，本国的一些城市可能会发生爆炸——引燃炸弹的是穿越边境的ISIS武装分子，甚至土耳其境内的ISIS潜伏成员。倘若土耳其出于这样的恐惧而选择沉默和低调，西方的决策者和评论人士不应该把这种谨慎看做是对西方的背叛，也不应将其解读为同情这一恐怖组织的信号。