ISTANBUL — A day after the worst terrorist attack in Turkey's modern history left nearly 100 people dead, thousands of mourners gathered on Sunday in central Ankara, the Turkish capital, to lay carnations and rail against the government.
伊斯坦布尔——周日，成千上万名悼念者聚集在土耳其首都安卡拉市中心献花并批评政府。一天前，土耳其发生了该国现代史上最严重的恐怖袭击，导致近100人死亡。
The gathering — mostly of Kurds, who were the main victims of the two devastating explosions that struck a peace rally Saturday — waved flags and vented their anger at the Turkish state, which they held responsible for the carnage.
聚集的人群挥舞着旗帜，宣泄对国家的愤怒，他们认为土耳其政府应对前一天发生的惨剧负责。悼念者大部分是库尔德人。周六的两场惨烈爆炸，打破了当天的一场和平集会，爆炸的死伤者主要是库尔德人。
“Murderer Erdogan!” was one chant, referring to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. “Murderer police” and “Murderer state” were others.
其中一个口号是“埃尔多安是凶手！”这里的埃尔多安指的是该国总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)。其他口号还包括“警方是凶手”和“国家是凶手”。
“We met today to call for peace and mourn for our friends, but we are also demanding answers,” said Ekim Ertas, a Kurdish activist who attended the peace rally on Saturday and spoke of the anger that had been building over months as several Kurdish gatherings were attacked. “There have been three similar attacks against Kurds in four months, and nobody has been held to account. We demand answers. We want to know why the government keeps allowing these attacks against the Kurds to happen.”
“我们今天聚集在一起是为了呼吁和平，悼念朋友，但我们也是在追问，”库尔德活动人士埃基姆·埃尔塔斯(Ekim Ertas)说。他参加了周六的和平集会，并谈到了数月来因为多场库尔德人集会遇袭，而积聚起来的愤怒情绪。“四个月里，发生了三次针对库尔德人的类似袭击，没人被追究责任。我们要求知道答案。我们希望知道，政府为什么一直容许这种针对库尔德人的袭击发生。”
No group has claimed responsibility for the twin bombings, which officials said had most likely been carried out by suicide bombers. But the government conducted operations on Sunday against what officials said were two possible culprits: the Sunni militants of the Islamic State and the rebels of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK.
尚没有团体宣布对这两起爆炸负责。官方称，爆炸极有可能是自杀式袭击者制造的。但政府周日对两支势力采取了行动，一个是伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的逊尼派武装分子，另一个是库尔德工人党（Kurdistan Workers’ Party，简称PKK）的反叛分子。官员称，他们可能是爆炸案的凶手。
According to accounts in the Turkish news media, the government detained several people it suspected of being members of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, in the central Anatolian city of Konya and the coastal city of Antalya. It was not clear if the arrests were related to Saturday's attack.
土耳其新闻媒体报道，政府在安纳托利亚中部城市科尼亚和沿海城市安塔利亚拘捕了多名涉嫌参与伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）的嫌疑人。尚不清楚此举是否和周六的袭击有关。
According to a statement published online, the Turkish military also carried out bombing raids in southeast Turkey and northern Iraq against the PKK, a militant group that was at war with Turkey for nearly three decades but had, until recently, been in peace talks with the government.
根据发布在网上的一则声明，土耳其军方也在土耳其东南部和伊拉克北部对PKK实施了轰炸。武装组织PKK曾与土耳其政府交战近三十年。但直到最近，该组织一直在与政府开展和平谈判。
The PKK had announced, in the hours after the attacks in Ankara on Saturday, a unilateral cease-fire in which it pledged to halt offensive attacks in advance of parliamentary elections scheduled for Nov. 1. That the Turkish state kept up its campaign suggested that the cease-fire was unlikely to lead to lasting calm.
在周六安卡拉的袭击发生几小时后，PKK宣布单方面停火。PKK承诺在定于11月1日的议会选举前停止攻击行动。土耳其政府军仍在继续作战这一点表明，停火不太可能带来持久的宁静。
The official toll in Saturday's bombings stood at 95 dead, but Kurdish officials said it was higher. Speaking on top of a bus at the rally in Ankara on Sunday, Selahattin Demirtas, the leader of the Kurdish-dominated Peoples' Democratic Party, said that 128 people had been killed. Demirtas had accused the government on Saturday of being behind the attack, and on Sunday, he vowed not to seek revenge but to win at the polls.
周六的爆炸中，官方通报的死亡人数是95人，但库尔德官员称实际数字要高一些。周日，在安卡拉举行的集会上，以库尔德人为主的人民民主党(Peoples’ Democratic Party)领袖塞拉哈廷·德米尔塔斯(Selahattin Demirtas)在一辆公交车的车顶上说，有128人遇害。周六当天，德米尔塔斯谴责政府是袭击的背后主谋。他周日承诺不会复仇，但誓言要在选举中获胜。