ISTANBUL — Turkey said on Wednesday that it would empty its prisons of tens of thousands of criminals to make room for the wave of journalists, teachers, lawyers and judges rounded up in connection with last month’s failed coup.
伊斯坦布尔——土耳其周三表示，将把该国关押了数万名犯人的监狱清空，为因卷入上月未遂政变而被捕的大批记者、教师和法官腾出空间。
The startling decision to put so many criminals convicted of nonviolent offenses back on the streets is a measure of the strains on the state as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan expands a wide-ranging purge of those suspected of being enemies of the government. The efforts have created gaping holes in government institutions, the judiciary, schools, the news media and countless other professions.
这是一个令人震惊的决定，许多因非暴力犯罪而获刑的犯人将重获自由。在雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)总统对被怀疑与政府为敌的人士进行大范围清洗之际，此举展示出该国政府承受了多大的压力。大清洗已经导致政府机构、司法机构、学校、新闻媒体和数不胜数的其它职业领域出现了大量空缺。
Acting under powers granted by a state of emergency and allowing the state to bypass parliament to enact new laws, Turkey said in a decree issued on Wednesday that it would begin releasing up to 38,000 prisoners.
土耳其政府正在行使紧急状态所赋予的权力，允许政府绕过国会制定新法律。它在周三颁布的一道政令中称，将着手释放多达3.8万名犯人。
The government has blamed the coup attempt, which unfolded the night of July 15 as a rebel faction of the military sought to topple the government, on Fethullah Gulen, an Islamic cleric who lives in self-exile in rural Pennsylvania and whose followers have long filled positions in state institutions, including the military. But the state has gone well beyond arresting only the military officers suspected of planning the coup attempt.
这场未遂政变发生在7月15日晚上，军队里的造反派试图推翻土耳其政府。政府已将政变归咎于在美国宾夕法尼亚州乡间过着自我流放生活的穆斯林神职人员费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)，他在国家机构——包括军队中一直都有很多追随者。但政府下令逮捕的远远不只是被怀疑策划了未遂政变的军官。
Prisons filled to capacity in the weeks after the coup attempt, and many detainees slept in the communal spaces of jails, often without any bedding, said Ozturk Turkdogan, president of the Human Rights Association in Turkey. Authorities have also used sports arenas to house the flood of prisoners.
土耳其人权协会(Human Rights Association)主席奥斯图尔克·图尔克多甘(Ozturk Turkdogan)称，未遂政变爆发数周后，监狱里已是人满为患，许多被羁押者都睡在监狱的公共空间，常常连被褥都没有。此外，当局已经开始用体育场馆来关押大批犯人。
“This is a serious case of bad treatment, and the prisoners are suffering from serious health concerns as a result,” Turkdogan said.
“这是严重的虐待，其后果是，犯人们正遭受严重健康问题的折磨，”图尔克多甘说。
More than 40,000 people have been detained or arrested on coup-related charges, officials say. In some cases, the state has seized assets without due process, activists say.
官员称，已有超过4万人因被控卷入政变而遭到拘留或逮捕。活动人士称，在某些情况下，政府并未履行正当的程序便查扣了资产。
“There are a lot of arbitrary practices,” said Andrew Gardner, a researcher on Turkey for Amnesty International.
“许多做法都颇为武断，”国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)驻土耳其研究员安德鲁·加德纳(Andrew Gardner)说。
Under the prisoner-release plan, convicted criminals who have served at least half of their sentences will be freed on supervised parole. The government said that those guilty of murder, rape or other violent crimes were not eligible for release.
根据前述罪犯释放计划，已被定罪且至少已服满半数刑期的犯人，将被假释出狱并受到监管。政府称，那些因谋杀、强奸或其它暴力犯罪而被判刑的人不具有获释资格。