ISTANBUL — In building his political career, Turkey’s powerful and charismatic prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, relied heavily on the support of a Sufi mystic preacher whose base of operations is now in Pennsylvania.
伊斯坦布尔——在构建自己的政治生涯时，富有领袖气质、大权在握的土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)颇为倚重苏菲派(Sufi)中一个信奉神秘主义的神职人员，后者的大本营目前位于宾夕法尼亚州。
The two combined forces in a battle with the country’s secular military elite, sending them back to the barracks in recent years and establishing Turkey as a successful example of moderate, democratic Islamic government.
这两股势力在与土耳其军方世俗权贵的斗争中合二为一，近些年，这股势力逼退后者，把土耳其打造成了由温和、民主的伊斯兰政府执政的成功典范。
Now a corruption scandal not only threatens Mr. Erdogan’s rule but has exposed a deepening rift between the prime minister and the followers of his erstwhile ally that is tearing the government apart.
现在，一桩腐败案不仅威胁到了埃尔多安的统治，还暴露了这位总理与其前盟友的追随者之间日益加深的分歧，而这种局面正在撕裂埃尔多安政府。
On Thursday, after several days of sensational disclosures of corruption in Mr. Erdogan’s inner circle, Istanbul’s police chief was dismissed as the government carried out what officials indicated was a purge of police officers and officials conducting the corruption investigation — nearly three dozen so far, according to the semiofficial Anadolu news agency.
过去几天里，埃尔多安的亲信圈子爆出了耸人听闻的腐败丑闻，此后，据半官方的阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu)报道，伊斯坦布尔的警察局长于周四被免职。与此同时，有官员暗示，政府正在针对参与相关腐败案调查的警员和官员展开清洗行动——相关人数达到30多人。
Following much the same strategy he employed as he battled thousands of mostly liberal and secular-minded antigovernment protesters this summer over a development project in a beloved Istanbul park, Mr. Erdogan is portraying himself as fighting a “criminal gang” with links abroad.
埃尔多安采取了他今年夏天和成千上万的反政府抗议者角力时使用过的策略，那就是形容自己正在和与境外势力相勾结的“犯罪团伙”进行斗争。今夏的抗议者大多是自由派和世俗派人士，抗议的起因与伊斯坦布尔一座深受民众喜爱的公园内的开发项目有关。
That is an apparent reference to Fethullah Gulen, the Pennsylvania imam who adheres to a mystical brand of Sufi Islam and whose followers are said to occupy important positions in Turkey’s national government, including the police and judiciary but also in education, the news media and business.
埃尔多安的说法，指的似乎是现居美国宾夕法尼亚州的伊玛目费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)。居伦信奉伊斯兰教苏菲派的一个神秘主义支系，据称他的支持者在土耳其中央政府中身居要职，不仅涉足警察部门和司法系统，还包括教育、新闻媒体和商业界。
Mr. Erdogan weathered the summer of protest, emerging with the support of his base even as his image abroad was tarnished. But the corruption investigation poses a challenge that analysts and some Western diplomats believe could be even greater. The inquiry has ensnared several businessmen close to him, including one major construction tycoon, the sons of ministers and other government workers involved in zoning and public construction projects.
在己方阵营的支持下，埃尔多安经受住了夏季的抗议，尽管他的国际形象受到了损害。然而分析人士和一些西方外交官认为，腐败调查构成的挑战可能更大。调查人员已经逮捕了几名和他关系密切的商人，包括参与规划、涉足公共建筑工程的一名建筑大亨、多名部长的儿子和其他政府工作人员。
Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Gulen have disagreed on a number of important issues in recent years, although the tensions were kept largely silent.
近些年，埃尔多安和居伦在不少重要的议题上都产生过分歧，不过二人的紧张关系基本上都秘而不宣。
Mr. Gulen was said to have opposed the government’s activist foreign policy in the Middle East, especially its support of the rebels in Syria. He is also said to be more sympathetic to Israel, and tensions flared after the Mavi Marmara episode in 2010. That was when Israeli troops boarded a Turkish ship carrying aid for Gaza and killed eight Turks and one American of Turkish descent, leading eventually to a rupture in relations — since patched up — between Turkey and its onetime ally.
据称居伦曾对政府在中东实行的积极外交政策表示反对，他尤其反对政府对叙利亚反对派的支持。另据称，居伦更加同情以色列，2010年的蓝色马尔马拉号(Mavi Marmara)事件发生后，两人的关系出现了激化。那起事件中，以色列军队登上了向加沙地带运送救援物资的土耳其船只，杀死了八名土耳其人和一名土耳其裔美国人。于是土耳其与曾经的盟友以色列之间的关系发生破裂，不过后来双方又修复了关系。
Mr. Gulen’s followers “never approved the role the government tried to attain in the Middle East, or approved of its policy in Syria, which made everything worse, or its attitude in the Mavi Marmara crisis with Israel,” said Ali Bulac, a conservative intellectual and writer who supports Mr. Gulen.
支持居伦的保守派知识分子、作家阿里·布拉奇(Ali Bulac)说，居伦的支持者“从不认可政府试图在中东扮演的角色；不认可其在叙利亚的政策，那种政策让事态更加恶化了；也不认可政府在蓝色马尔马拉号危机中对待以色列的态度。”
The escalating political crisis, experts say, underscores the power Mr. Gulen has accumulated within the Turkish state. That power threatens to divide Mr. Erdogan’s core constituency of religious conservatives ahead of a series of elections over the next 18 months.
专家说，日益加剧的政治危机突显了居伦在土耳其国内积聚的势力。接下来的18个月里将举行一系列选举，他的势力极有可能会在选举前，分化埃尔多安的核心支持者，即看重宗教的保守派选民。
Mr. Gulen left Turkey in 1999 after being accused by the then-secular government of plotting to establish an Islamic state. He has since been exonerated of that charge and is free to return to Turkey, but never has. He lives quietly in Pennsylvania, though his followers are involved in an array of businesses and organizations in the United States and abroad, and some of them helped start a collection of charter schools in Texas and other states. He rarely gives interviews, and a spokesman recently said he was too ill to meet with a reporter.
1999年，在被当时的世俗政府指控密谋建立一个伊斯兰教国家后，居伦离开了土耳其。后来，他被宣告无罪，可以自由地返回土耳其，但他从未回国。他在宾夕法尼亚州过着平静的生活，不过在美国国内外的大量企业和组织中均有他的追随者的身影，其中一些人还帮着在德州和其他一些州开办了一系列特许学校。他极少接受采访。一名发言人前不久表示，他病得太重，无法和记者见面。
But a lawyer for Mr. Gulen, Orhan Erdemli, said in a statement released to the Turkish news media and shared by Mr. Gulen on Twitter that “the honorable Gulen has nothing to do with and has no information about the investigations or the public officials running them.”
但居伦的律师奥尔罕·埃尔代姆利(Orhan Erdemli)在发给土耳其新闻媒体的一份声明中表示，“备受尊敬的居伦先生和相关调查，以及进行调查的政府官员没有任何关系，也不了解相关情况”。居伦也在Twitter上分享了这份声明。
Huseyin Gulerce, who is personally close to Mr. Gulen and is a writer for a Gulen-affiliated newspaper, said Mr. Gulen’s followers have many of the same complaints about Mr. Erdogan as did the protesters this summer. They believe that Mr. Erdogan has become too powerful, too authoritarian in his ways, and has abandoned his earlier platform of democratic overhauls and pursuit of membership in the European Union.
与居伦私交甚密，并为一家与居伦相关的报纸撰稿的侯赛因·居莱尔杰(Huseyin Gulerce)说，居伦的追随者对埃尔多安的许多不满，和今夏那些抗议者们的不满是相同的。他们认为，埃尔多安的力量变得过于强大，行事方式变得过于专权，而且埃尔多安已经放弃了早些时候的民主改革纲领，也不再谋求加入欧盟。
As Mr. Erdogan has tried to contain the fallout, he is blaming domestic conspirators and foreign meddlers, just as he did during last summer’s protests, which began over plans to raze Gezi Park in central Istanbul and convert it into a shopping mall.
埃尔多安试图控制事件影响，他又像今年夏天抗议爆发时那样，指责国内策划阴谋的人和国外的干涉势力。夏天的抗议发生的原因是，政府计划拆除伊斯坦布尔市中心的盖齐公园(Gezi Park)并将其改建为一处购物中心。
“Such accusations are only absurd speculations,” said Ersin Kalaycioglu, a political science professor at Sabanci University in Istanbul. “In Gezi, he accused the Alevis, interest rate lobbies, opposition powers and international power groups for organizing the protests. And now, he’s trying to build the same links with this corruption investigation. What kind of twisted logic is that?”
“这种指责不过是荒唐的揣测，”伊斯坦布尔萨班哲大学(Sabanci University)政治学教授埃尔辛·卡莱吉奥鲁(Ersin Kalaycioglu)说。“在盖齐公园那件事上，他指责阿列维派、利率游说集团、反对派势力和国际势力集团策划了那些抗议。如今，他又试图把那些力量和这次腐败调查联系在一起。逻辑简直太扭曲了。”
Hours after a series of dawn raids unfolded at the offices of several businessmen on Tuesday, Mr. Erdogan appeared before a crowd in Konya, a conservative town in the country’s heartland where he draws many supporters. “Some people have guns and weapons, tricks and traps,” he said, “but we have our God and that is enough for us.”
周二，多名商人的办公室在黎明时分遭到一系列突击搜查。几小时后，埃尔多安来到了土耳其中部的保守城市科尼亚，出现在人群前。埃尔多安在那里吸引了众多支持者。“有些人有枪支和武器，设计了诡计和陷阱，”他说，“但我们有真主，这就足够了。”
The Gezi protests showed a prime minister deeply involved in local urban planning issues — not surprising to a Turkish public accustomed to their prime minister telling them how many children to have or what to eat. Similarly, the corruption investigation has laid bare the concentrated nature of power in Turkey.
盖齐公园引发的抗议表明，这位总理深入参与了地方的城市规划。对于土耳其公众来说，这不足为奇，因为他们已经习惯了这个告诉他们该生几个孩子、该吃什么的总理。同样，此次腐败调查也让土耳其权力集中的本质暴露无遗。
The corruption inquiry, like the Gezi protests, touch on an issue with deep emotional resonance to the Turkish public, and one at the core of the financial constituency that has built Mr. Erdogan’s power: the dizzying construction in Istanbul and the well-known but rarely acknowledged ties between Mr. Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party and a new, pious economic elite, anchored in the construction industry, that rose to power alongside him over the last decade.
和盖齐公园引发的抗议一样，这次腐败调查触及的问题让土耳其民众产生了深刻的共鸣，而且，这个问题也直抵为埃尔多安构筑权力的金融界利益的核心：伊斯坦布尔令人眼花缭乱的建筑工程，以及正义与发展党(Justice and Development Party)与一批经济新贵之间存在的联系。埃尔多安领导的正发党植根于伊斯兰主义，与这批笃信宗教的经济新贵之间的联系尽管广为人知，但鲜少有人公开承认。在过去十年里，从事建筑业的这批经济新贵和埃尔多安一道获得了权力。
For residents of this city there are daily reminders, and nuisances, of the power of Mr. Erdogan and his allies in the construction industry: the traffic snarls, the rising cranes and the early-morning jackhammering.
埃尔多安和他在建筑行业的盟友手握重权。这座城市的居民每天都能看到这种权力的标志和危害：混乱的交通、高耸的起重机，以及手提钻清晨发出的声响。