ISTANBUL — The wedding on Saturday night was winding down, and some guests had already left. But the music was still playing and people were still dancing in the narrow streets of Gaziantep, a city not far from the Syrian border.
伊斯坦布尔——在周六晚上举行的这场婚礼正进入尾声，有些宾客已经离开。但是在距离叙利亚边境不远的加济安泰普市几条狭窄的街道上，音乐依然在响，人们还在跳舞。
Just then a child — no more than 14 years old, Turkey’s president said later — meandered into the gathering and detonated a vest of explosives.
就在此时，一个孩子——土耳其总统后来称其最多只有14岁——若无其事地走进人群，引爆了身上装满炸药的背心。
Suddenly, the most joyous of occasions became a scene of blood and gore, with body parts scattered all around. Once again, the horrors of Syria’s civil war had visited Turkey.
突然之间，这场欢腾的喜事变成了血淋淋的惨剧，遍地是人体残肢。叙利亚内战的恐怖再一次到访土耳其。
The devastating bombing of the Kurdish wedding in Gaziantep killed at least 51 people and wounded 69. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan blamed the Islamic State, the terrorist group that controls a swath of land straddling the frontier between Iraq and Syria.
在加济安泰普这场库尔德婚礼上发生的爆炸惨案，至少导致51人死亡，69人受伤。土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)将之归咎于伊斯兰国。该恐怖组织控制着伊拉克和叙利亚边境之间的一片狭长区域。
“In this area, we live in a ring of fire,” said Hilmi Karaca, a Kurdish activist who witnessed the explosion. “We live in a place where mothers are weeping for their dead children just hours after crying tears of joy at a wedding.”
“我们过着水深火热的生活，”目击了这场爆炸的库尔德活动人士希勒米·卡拉贾(Hilmi Karaca)说。“在这里，一个母亲刚刚在婚礼上留下快乐的眼泪，几个小时之后就开始为死去的孩子哭泣。”
The attack was the deadliest in a string of terrorist bombings that have struck Turkey this year, as it grapples with the spiraling chaos of spillover from the war in Syria.
在土耳其今年遭遇的一系列由恐怖分子制造的爆炸事件中，这一次的伤亡是最惨重的。源自叙利亚战场的混乱日渐波及该国，令他们疲于应付。
Mahmut Togrul, a lawmaker with the Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic Party who on Sunday visited the scene of the attack, said the wedding had been a traditional Kurdish ceremony and had taken place in a predominantly Kurdish neighborhood. He said that many of the victims were children.
库尔德人民民主党(Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic Party)议员马哈茂德·托鲁尔(Mahmut Togrul)周日前往爆炸地点。他表示，这是一场传统的库尔德婚礼，在一个以库尔德人为主的社区举办。他表示，受害者中许多是儿童。
That the perpetrator of the attack and so many of its victims were so young was a potent illustration of the degradation of the Syrian war as it has inflamed the region.
袭击者以及许多受害者的年龄如此之小，是叙利亚战事恶化的明证，战争已经令该地区的局势岌岌可危。
The bride and groom on Saturday, Besna and Nurettin Akdogan, survived without serious injuries. Neighbors said they were cousins who had been engaged for six months. After being released from the hospital, the bride said, “They turned our wedding into a blood bath,” according to the state-run Anadolu News Agency.
婚礼的新娘和新郎——贝斯娜(Besna)和努雷丁·阿克多安(Nurettin Akdogan)夫妇——幸存了下来，伤情无大碍。邻居们表示，他们是表亲，已经订婚六个月。据官方的阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu News Agency)报道，从医院出来以后，新娘说，“他们把婚礼变成了一场屠杀。”