ANKARA — Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, declared a three-month state of emergency on Wednesday that he said would enable his government to cleanse the military of individuals who tried to topple his government.
安卡拉——土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)于周三宣布全国进入紧急状态三个月，他说这样一来他领导的政府就能肃清军队中试图推翻政府的人。
The state of emergency would further expand Mr. Erdogan’s powers after the firing and suspension of thousands of soldiers and civil servants in recent days on suspicion of complicity in an attempted coup last week.
此前，被怀疑参与上周一场未遂政变的数千名军人和公务员已经遭到解雇或停职。全国进入紧急状态会让埃尔多安的权力得到进一步扩大。
In a televised address, Mr. Erdogan said Wednesday that the extra powers were needed to protect Turkey’s democracy, and he criticized Western nations who have accused his government of overreaching in its efforts to root out suspected opponents.
周三，埃尔多安在电视上发表讲话时表示，要保护土耳其的民主，这样的权力扩充是必要的。他还驳斥了西方国家的指责，它们说他领导的政府在清洗反政府嫌疑人过程中矫枉过正。
“The aim is to rapidly and effectively take all steps needed to eliminate the threat against democracy, the rule of law and the people’s rights and freedoms,” Mr. Erdogan said.
“我们的目标是迅速、有效地采取一切必要措施，把威胁民主、法治以及人民的权力和自由的因素消除殆尽，”埃尔多安说。
“This measure is in no way against democracy, the law and freedoms,” he added. “On the contrary it aims to protect and strengthen them.”
“这一举措绝不是在反民主、法律与自由，”他还说。“相反，其目标是保护和巩固它们。”
Some European leaders and human rights groups have criticized the scope of the government’s purge of state institutions, and calls by many Turks to reinstitute the death penalty to punish those involved in plotting the coup.
针对土耳其政府大范围清洗国家机构，以及许多土耳其人关于恢复死刑以便惩罚参与策划政变者的呼声，一些欧洲领导人和人权团体已经做出了批评。
Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Erdogan said in a television interview that he suspected foreign countries might have been involved in the failed coup, though he declined to say what governments may have wanted him out of power.
周三早些时候，埃尔多安在一次电视采访中表示，他怀疑这场未遂的政变或许还牵涉到外国政府，但他拒绝透露哪个国家的政府想让他下台。
Speaking through an interpreter in an interview with Al Jazeera, Mr. Erdogan also said that there may still be plots against his government, according to The Associated Press.
美联社(The Associated Press)称，埃尔多安通过翻译接受半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)采访时还表示，针对他领导的政府的阴谋可能依然存在。
“I don’t think we have come to the end of it yet,” Mr. Erdogan said, according to The A.P., as his government announced new measures aimed at solidifying his authority.
“我认为事情尚未结束，”美联社报道埃尔多安这样说，与此同时土耳其政府正宣布采取旨在巩固埃尔多安权威的新举措。
The Turkish authorities have moved rapidly to remove from the state bureaucracy suspected followers of Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim cleric and rival of Mr. Erdogan who has been accused of orchestrating Friday’s coup plot.
土耳其当局已经迅速采取行动，清理国家官僚机构中疑似追随费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的人士。居伦是一名穆斯林神职人员，同时也是埃尔多安的竞争对手，被控策划了上周五的政变。
On Wednesday, two members of Turkey’s constitutional court were arrested, and the defense ministry fired more than 200 military court judges and prosecutors. Turkey’s state-run news agency also reported that the education ministry was closing 626 private schools under investigation for “crimes against the constitutional order and the running of that order.”
周三，土耳其宪法法院的两名成员被捕，国防部还解雇了逾200名军事法庭法官和检察官。另据土耳其官方媒体报道，教育部以调查“违反宪政秩序和妨碍宪政秩序运行的犯罪行为”之名，下令关闭626所私营学校。
The members of the constitutional court were among a group of more than 100 officials from the judiciary who were arrested on Wednesday. Nearly 60,000 soldiers, police officers, judges and civil servants have been suspended and detained across the country since last weekend, and about 1,000 members of the military have been accused of connections to the attempted coup.
包括上述宪法法院的两名成员在内，司法界共有超过100名官员于周三被捕。自上周末以来，全国各地已有将近6万名军人、警察、法官及公务员被停职或拘禁，大约1000名军方人士被控与未遂政变有关联。
Mr. Erdogan had held an extraordinary national security meeting earlier on Wednesday to discuss what other measures should be taken to rid the Turkish bureaucracy and security forces of individuals opposed to his government.
周三早些时候，埃尔多安召开国家安全特别会议，讨论还应采取何种措施，把他的政府的反对者从土耳其官僚机构和安全部队中清理出去。
In his interview with Al Jazeera, Mr. Erdogan dismissed suggestions that he was becoming authoritarian, and that Turkish democracy was under any threat.
接受半岛电视台采访时，埃尔多安驳斥了他正变成独裁者、土耳其的民主正受到威胁之类的说法。
“We will remain within a democratic parliamentary system, we will never step away from it,” he said, according to Reuters.
据路透社报道，他说：“我们将继续实施民主议会制度，我们永远也不会背弃它。”
The purges of Turkish institutions included the country’s Education Ministry on Tuesday, when more than 15,000 of its employees were suspended. On Wednesday, academics were barred from traveling abroad for work in an effort to prevent scholars and university teachers accused of participation in the coup plot from fleeing the country, Turkish officials said.
周二，土耳其清洗政府机构的范围扩大到了教育部，该部逾1.5万名雇员被停职。周三，学术界人士被禁止出差到国外，土耳其官员称，这是为了防止被控牵涉政变阴谋的学者和大学教师逃出土耳其。
Mr. Gulen, a onetime ally of Mr. Erdogan who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, is believed to have inspired a vast network of educational institutions in Turkey and the United States, and is known to have many sympathizers in the police and judiciary in Turkey.
居伦曾是埃尔多安的盟友，目前在美国宾夕法尼亚州过着自我流放的生活，据信已经在土耳其和美国建立起了一个庞大的教育机构网络。众所周知的是，他在土耳其警界和司法界也有很多支持者。
Also on Wednesday, the country’s internet watchdog blocked access to the WikiLeaks website after it published thousands of emails linked to the accounts of the governing Justice and Development Party.
同样在周三，维基解密(WikiLeaks)在公布了与执政的正义与发展党(Justice and Development Part)有关的大量邮件后被土耳其网络监管部门屏蔽。
A government official said the decision was made because the publishing of the emails was a violation of privacy and the data was illegally obtained.
一位政府官员称，之所以做出这一决定是因为，公布这些邮件之举侵犯了隐私权，而且这些信息是从非法途径获得的。