ISTANBUL — Turkey mounted its largest military effort yet in the Syrian conflict on Wednesday, sending tanks, warplanes and special operations forces over the border in a U.S.-backed drive to capture an Islamic State stronghold in Syria.
伊斯坦布尔——周三，土耳其发起了该国迄今在叙利亚冲突中规模最大的军事行动，派遣坦克、战机和特种作战部队越过边境，参与一项得到美国支持的行动，意图夺取伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在叙利亚的一个据点。
The joint offensive on the city of Jarabulus, one of the last border strongholds of the Islamic State, began hours before Vice President Joe Biden was to meet with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara, the Turkish capital. The timing seemed aimed at easing tensions between the two countries raised by the failed coup in Turkey last month.
此次联合进攻以伊斯兰国最后的边境据点之一贾拉布洛斯(Jarabulus)为目标。行动开始几小时后，美国副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)在土耳其首都安卡拉会见了该国总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)。选择这一时机似乎旨在缓和因土耳其上月发生的未遂政变而变得紧张的两国关系。
The operation, clearing the way for a force of about 500 Syrian rebels to take the border town, represented a significant escalation of Turkey’s role in the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL. But it also seemed as much about containing the territorial ambitions of Syrian Kurdish militias, which Turkey sees as its primary enemy in the conflict and which were poised to move against Jarabulus.
这一行动为大约500名叙利亚叛军拿下这座边境城镇扫清了道路，同时表明，在与伊斯兰国（也称ISIS或ISIL）的对抗中，土耳其的作用大幅提升。但行动似乎还与遏制叙利亚库尔德民兵组织的领土野心有关。该组织被土耳其视为冲突中的主要敌人，此前正准备进攻贾拉布洛斯。
Biden addressed those concerns at a news conference after his meeting with Erdogan, saying the Syrian Kurds, a U.S. ally in the fight against the Islamic State militants, would have to withdraw to the eastern side of the Euphrates River.
与埃尔多安会面后，拜登在一个新闻发布会上就这些担忧做出了回应。他说，叙利亚的库尔德人作为美国抗击伊斯兰国武装分子的盟友，将不得不退回到幼发拉底河(Euphrates River)东侧。
“We have made it clear to Kurdish forces that they must move back across the river,” he said. “They cannot and will not get American support if they do not keep that commitment. Period.”
“我们已经明确告知库尔德武装，他们必须退回河对岸，”他说。“如果不信守这一承诺，他们就不能也不会得到美国的支持。就是这样。”
Turkey has signaled in recent days that it is prepared to take a more aggressive diplomatic role in Syria, working alongside Iran, Russia and the United States to seek an end to the war.
土耳其于近日表示已经准备好在叙利亚扮演更具攻击性的外交角色，将和伊朗、俄罗斯以及美国一道，争取给战争画上句号。
Turkish officials, including the foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, warned that their country could ultimately end up fighting the Syrian Kurds, important allies of the United States.
包括外长梅夫吕特·恰武什奥卢(Mevlut Cavusoglu)在内的土耳其官员警告称，他们的国家最终可能会和美国的重要盟友——叙利亚的库尔德人开战。
The operation started at 4 a.m., officials said, with Turkish and U.S. warplanes pounding Islamic State positions in Jarabulus. The special operations troops entered Syria to clear a passage for a ground operation by Turkish-backed rebel groups, the state broadcaster TRT reported.
官员称，此次行动开始于凌晨4点，土耳其和美国的战机打击了伊斯兰国在贾拉布洛斯的阵地。据官方媒体土耳其之声(TRT)报道，特种作战部队进入叙利亚境内，为得到土耳其支持的叛军组织执行地面行动扫清了障碍。
Jarabulus is a vital supply line for the Islamic State and one of its last remaining strongholds on the border.
贾拉布洛斯处于伊斯兰国的主要补给线上，还是它在边境地带仅存的几个据点之一。