ISTANBUL — Turkey’s announcement last month that it would buy a long-range defense system from a Chinese company is the latest sign that Ankara’s attempts to strike an independent foreign policy have gone wrong.
伊斯坦布尔——土耳其为建立一套独立外交政策所做的努力已经误入歧途，上月安卡拉方面宣布将向一家中国公司购买远程防御系统的消息，是这种错误的最新表现。
To its credit, Turkey’s Justice and Development Party (A.K.P.) has tried during its decade in power to play a constructive role in the region — as a mediator between its NATO allies and Turkey’s troubled neighbors. The so-called zero problems policy seeks to deal pragmatically with Syria and Iran, to resolve its long-standing dispute with Armenia, and come to terms with problems at home, mainly the demands of its own Kurdish population. In 2008, Turkey even tried to broker a deal between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza strip.
值得肯定的是，在正义与发展党（Justice and Development Party，简称AKP）执政的十年里，土耳其一直努力寻求在该地区扮演一个有助益的角色——在其北约(NATO)盟国和麻烦不断的邻国之间充当调停人。所谓的零问题政策是尝试用务实的方式，处理与叙利亚和伊朗相关的问题，解决和亚美尼亚持续多年的争端，并给国内的问题画上句号——主要是本国库尔德人的诉求。2008年，土耳其甚至试图充当中间人，来促成以色列和加沙地带的哈马斯组织(Hamas)的和解。
It was never going to be easy: There has been war across its border in Iraq, insurrection in Syria and growing concern over an Iran’s nuclear ambitions.
这些从来不是等闲事：边境对面的伊拉克经历了战争，叙利亚出现了暴乱，而伊朗的核野心越来越让人担心。
But now Ankara, long a key NATO ally, has dropped the ball. The plan to buy a defense system from China shocked Washington and Brussels: The system would be incompatible with NATO’s defenses. Moreover, the Chinese manufacturer is on a U.S. sanctions list for violating the Iran, North Korea and Syria Nonproliferation Act.
但是长期以来一直是北约重要成员的土耳其撒手不管了。从中国购买防御系统的计划震惊了美国和欧盟：这个系统和北约的防御体系是不兼容的。此外，由于违反《伊朗、朝鲜和叙利亚不扩散法》(Iran, North Korea and Syria Nonproliferation Act)，相关中国制造商是被列在美国制裁名单上的。
Asked on Tuesday to rate her concern on a scale of one to five, Oana Lungescu, the NATO defense spokeswoman in Brussels, threw up her hands. “What matters to us is the interoperability’’ of the Chinese technology with “NATO’s connected defense system. And in that regard, that number is five.”
记者周二问北约驻布鲁塞尔防务女发言人乌阿娜·朗杰斯库(Oana Lungescu)，从1到5分，她对此事的担忧达到了几分，朗杰斯库举起了两只手。“让我们最担心的是”中国的技术“和北约的互联防御系统的互操作性。在这个问题上，这个担心的级别是5。”
Turkey spent years considering rival bids for the missile system. The top contenders were the U.S. makers of Patriot missiles and their French-Italian equivalent — or so everyone thought.
土耳其已经花了几年时间来评估几家竞争对手的导弹系统。最有力的竞争者是生产爱国者导弹的美国公司，还有一家和它同等地位的法-意公司——至少大家是这么想的。
No one should feel sorry for the Western defense contractors. The Chinese undercut the nearest bid by a $1 billion. And the Chinese take a more liberal attitude about transferring technology — they will, for example, allow Turkish co-production of the weapons. The Chinese sweetened the deal by promising to build a new technology park close to an Istanbul airport.
西方防务承包商也没什么可遗憾的。中国人的开价比它们最低的还要低10亿美元。而且中国人在技术转移方面的态度也更大方——比如他们允许土耳其参与武器的生产。为了增加合同的诱惑力，中国人还承诺要在伊斯坦布尔一座机场附近建一座全新的科技园区。
The fact that the defense system may not work seems to have been overlooked.
而防御系统本身可能不好用这一点，似乎就被忽略了。
The big problem is the Chinese weapons cannot be integrated with NATO’s radar technology. No NATO country is going to hand over to the Chinese the radar codes that would allow the defensive missiles to detect friend from foe.
关键问题在于中国的武器无法整合到北约的雷达系统中。没有哪个北约国家会把用于防御导弹敌我判断的雷达代码交给中国人。
The deal is not yet final and it may well be that the announcement to buy from a Chinese company is a ploy to get the Westerners to lower their prices. But even if the deal stalls, it is a signal that Turkey has lost its way with foreign policy.
目前合同还没有敲定，宣布向中国公司购买的消息完全可能是逼迫西方人降价的一种手段。但是即便合同最终搁浅，也还是能说明土耳其在外交政策上的迷失。
“Zero problems” has notoriously become “nothing but problems.” The attempt to mend fences with Armenia was shelved in 2010 when Ankara allowed a deal that would have re-opened a border closed since 1993 to be overruled by an energy provider in Azerbaijan. Also in 2010, relations with Israel collapsed with the infamous Mavi Marmara incident, in which Israeli commandos killed nine peace activists on a Turkish-registered ship trying to run the Gaza blockade.
“零问题”的说法已经声名狼藉地变成了“零解决”。2010年的一项协议本可以重启自1993年起一直关闭的土耳其-亚美尼亚边境，但在一家阿塞拜疆能源供应商的反对下，安卡拉否决了这项协议，修复两国关系的努力陷入停滞。同样在2010年，臭名昭著的蓝色马尔马拉号事件导致和以色列的关系崩溃，在事件中，以色列特种部队士兵登上一艘在土耳其注册的轮船，杀死了九名和平运动人士，当时那艘船正欲闯过加沙地带的封锁线。
Relations with Syria have been the most striking failure. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan had personally led a diplomatic effort to broker peace between President Bashar al-Assad and the Syrian rebels. But pragmatism turned into blind enmity when the Syrian leader refused to follow a Turkish recipe for reform. Ankara then started to covertly arm radical elements of the opposition, only to backtrack when it realized it risked nurturing an Al Qaeda-style movement in its own backyard.
和叙利亚的关系则最为失败。总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)曾亲自领导了一个外交行动，试图促成巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统和叙利亚叛乱分子达成和平协议。但叙利亚领导人拒绝接受土耳其人给出的改革方案，务实主义顿时被失去理智的敌意所取代。安卡拉此后开始秘密地向反对派中的激进分子提供武器，但最后还是收手了，因为他们发现这一举措有可能会在自家后院培养起基地性质的武装组织。
All these setbacks are a source of frustration to a Turkish government that came to power in 2002 hoping to put behind the Cold War divisions of “us and them” and to carve for itself an independent role. Instead, all those uncertainties on its Eastern borders mean that Ankara appears more reliant than ever on its old Western friends. Buying weapons from the Chinese may be a way to reassert that sense of self-reliance.
自2002年上台以来，这个政府一直希望把冷战留下的“我们和他们”的对峙抛诸脑后，给自己塑造一个独立的形象，但所有这些挫折都令它倍感沮丧。事实上，由于东面边境线的种种不确定因素，安卡拉现在反而比以往更加依赖西方那些老朋友。从中国购买武器也许就是要给自己带来一种自立的感觉。
It may also be a way of reprimanding old allies. After a long hiatus, Turkey is about to open a new chapter in its attempt to join the European Union, but no one pretends negotiations are on track. The Erdogan government feels beleaguered. It faced a summer of protests in major cities fueled by accusations that Ankara has little understanding of democratic dissent. And far from winning support for his policy of trying to bring down the Syrian regime, the Turkish prime minister feels betrayed by the suspicion that Washington will settle for far less — the dismantling of Assad’s chemical weapons.
同时这也可能是要给老盟友们一个教训。经过多年的搁置后，土耳其即将为加入欧盟(European Union)发起新一轮的努力，但谁都知道谈判的前景黯淡。埃尔多安政府感觉自己腹背受敌。刚刚过去的这个夏天，国内几个主要城市出现抗议活动，指责安卡拉对民主异见缺乏理解。埃尔多安推翻叙利亚政权的努力没有得到什么支持，而且他怀疑华盛顿可能会止步于一个小得多的成就——销毁阿萨德的化学武器，这对埃尔多安来说是一种背叛。
Erdogan has strong domestic support. He is on the verge of becoming the next president. Yet his influence abroad has never been less. The foreign press and, increasingly, Western governments, make no secret that they think the protesters this summer had it right.
埃尔多安在国内支持者甚众。他眼看着就要成为下一任总统。然而他在国外的影响力却空前低落。国外媒体毫不掩饰地表示，他们认为今夏的抗议者是有道理的，西方国家的政府也越来越多地认同这一观点。
But the answer for Erdogan is not to alienate Turkey’s old friends by buying Chinese missiles, even if they are a bargain.
但是埃尔多安的回应不应该是去购买中国的导弹，以此来疏远和老朋友的关系，虽然中国军火的确是很便宜。