ISTANBUL — A corruption investigation that has encircled the Turkish government moved an ominous step closer to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Wednesday, as three top ministers whose sons have been implicated abruptly resigned — and one of them, on his way out the door, said Mr. Erdogan should step down as well.
伊斯坦布尔——席卷土耳其政府的一项腐败调查，周三朝着土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)迈出了凶险的一步。三名部长因为各自的儿子涉案突然辞职，其中一人离任之际声称，埃尔多安本人也应该下台。
The resignations, coming only hours after the ministers welcomed Mr. Erdogan at the Ankara airport as he returned from Pakistan late on Tuesday, were enough to inspire new talk of a deepening crisis, which Mr. Erdogan has repeatedly denounced as a foreign plot.
三人辞职数小时前，部长们周二晚间刚刚在安卡拉机场迎接出访巴基斯坦的埃尔多安归国。辞职让人们再次开始谈论这场日益加深的危机，埃尔多安曾一再谴责这是一场外国策划的阴谋。
But the words from one of the departing ministers were considered stunning, coming from a political party known for silencing dissent. That instantly raised the significance of the entire inquiry and left members of the Turkish public wondering if they were witnessing the collapse of their Islamist-rooted government of the last decade.
但是那名离任部长的话却让人惊诧，毕竟他来自一个惯于让持不同意见者噤声的政党。这番话立即让整个调查的重要性大大提高，也让土耳其公众开始思索，虽然这个立足于伊斯兰主义的政府过去十年里一直掌权，现在它是否行将垮台。
“Now it seems the situation has changed completely,” said Kerem Oktem, a Turkey expert and research fellow at the European Studies Center at the University of Oxford. “It seems the ring around Erdogan has gotten tighter.”
“现在看来，局面已经完全转变，”牛津大学欧洲研究中心(European Studies Center)研究员、土耳其问题专家凯莱姆·约克塔姆(Kerem Oktem)说。“埃尔多安周围的网似乎越来越紧了。”
Later, as a dramatic day came to a close, Mr. Erdogan emerged from a meeting with President Abdullah Gul in Ankara, the Turkish capital, and announced that seven other ministers would leave his cabinet, some of whom are departing as part of a long-planned shuffle so that they can run for mayors in coming elections. One of the late-night departures included the European Union minister, who has been implicated in the corruption investigation.
之后，扣人心弦的一天即将结束时，埃尔多安在土耳其首都安卡拉与总统阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)会面之后宣布，另外七名部长也将从内阁离职。其中几名部长离任的原因是一项计划已久的人事调整，这样他们就能在即将举行的选举中竞选市长。在晚间离任的部长中，包括在腐败调查中涉案的欧盟事务部长。
The investigation became public a week ago with dawn police raids on the offices of businessmen and others close to the prime minister. But Wednesday was the first time that someone who had been in Mr. Erdogan’s hierarchy — a confidant, no less — left the strong implication of the prime minister’s entanglements in some of the real estate deals at the heart of the case.
腐败调查一周前进入了公众的视野，当时一些商界人士及其他与总理关系密切的人的办公室，在清晨遭到了警方的突击搜查。但周三是埃尔多安的一名亲信首次明确表示，总理与腐败案涉及的某些房地产交易之间存在关联。
The crisis strikes a sharp contrast to the image that Turkey has projected as an exemplar of a prosperous, Muslim-majority country based on democratic principles. A NATO member, Turkey has been embraced by the United States and Europe as a force for stability in the tumultuous Middle East, and the country has sought to play an important role in shaping the outcome of crises in Syria, Egypt and with Iran’s nuclear program. With Mr. Erdogan now preoccupied with political survival, Turkey’s role in the region and its relationship with the West are in question.
一直以来，土耳其向外界投放的形象是，该国是一个穆斯林为主体，以民主原则运作的繁荣国家，而这场危机与之形成了鲜明对比。作为北大西洋公约(NATO)的成员国，美国和欧洲都把它当成是在当前混乱的中东地区中维护稳定的力量，而且土耳其也在寻求扮演更重要的角色，对叙利亚、埃及，以及伊朗核计划的危机产生更大的影响。但当下埃尔多安全神贯注于自己的政治生命，土耳其在本地区的角色，以及与西方的关系可能会面临问题。
The corruption inquiry has targeted the ministers’ sons, a major construction tycoon with links to Mr. Erdogan and municipal workers, and it centers in part on allegations that officials received bribes in exchange for ignoring zoning rules and approving contentious development projects. No one has been convicted, but the issue has struck a nerve among the Turkish public, especially Istanbul residents. They have become increasingly resentful over the dizzying pace of development and riches amassed by a new, pious economic elite, with a strong hand in the construction industry, which rose to power alongside Mr. Erdogan and his associates.
腐败调查的目标包括部长的儿子们、一名与埃尔多安存在关联的建筑业大亨，以及一些政府职员。调查的部分关注点在于，官员收取贿赂，进而无视规划法规，批准存在争议的开发项目。目前尚无人被判有罪，然而这个问题已经刺激了土耳其公众，尤其是伊斯坦布尔居民敏感的神经。让人头晕目眩的开发步伐，以及对宗教较为虔诚的新兴经济精英聚敛的大量财富，令他们越来越气愤。这个新富阶层对建筑业有很强的控制，在埃尔多安及其亲信获取权力的道路上一直伴在左右。
Analysts questioned whether Mr. Erdogan can weather the crisis by blaming foreign powers, appealing to the religious sentiments of supporters, and evoking the ghosts of Turkey’s past by likening it to the war for independence it fought after the breakup of the Ottoman Empire.
分析人士质疑，埃尔多安单靠抨击外国、鼓动支持者的宗教情绪，或者唤起民众对土耳其历史的记忆，能否度过这场危机。埃尔多安曾将当前的局面与奥斯曼帝国瓦解后，土耳其经历的独立战争相提并论。
The developments on Wednesday came amid rumors in the local news media that more damaging allegations from the investigation were coming and would link directly to Mr. Erdogan and his family.
周三的事件发生时，当地媒体还报道，有传言称调查中会提出更严峻的指控，即埃尔多安及他的家人也直接涉案。
“We can see the prime minister is trying to take precautions against something that could be bigger,” said Ozgur Unluhisarcikli, the head of the Ankara office of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, a research organization. Mr. Unluhisarcikli said that as the investigation inched closer to Mr. Erdogan personally, he would “have more difficulty containing the damage.”
研究机构美国德国马歇尔基金会(German Marshall Fund of the United States)安卡拉办公室负责人约兹居尔·云卢希萨杰克勒(Ozgur Unluhisarcikli)表示，“我们能看出总理正在对某种可能更严峻的局面采取预防措施。”云卢希萨杰克勒说，随着调查行动一步步逼近埃尔多安本人，“他想控制破坏性的后果，恐怕会更难”。
The public has been riveted by a flow of sordid details of the investigations leaked to the news media — with photographs of piles of cash in the bedroom of a minister’s son and reports that the chief executive of a state-owned bank had $4.5 million in cash packed in shoeboxes.
有照片显示，一个部长之子的卧室里摆放着成堆的钞票。一些报道还揭露了一家国有银行的行长在多个鞋盒里塞了450万美元现金。这些泄露给新闻媒体的肮脏细节源源不断地到来，吸引了公众的目光。
Another major worry for Mr. Erdogan now is that anger with his administration will spread to the streets, as it did in the summer with the violent suppression of demonstrators trying to protect a beloved Istanbul park from development. On Wednesday night sporadic protests erupted in some neighborhoods of Istanbul and other cities, with people calling on the government to resign and shouting: “Everywhere bribery! Everywhere corruption!”
目前埃尔多安的另一个主要担忧是，对他的政府的不满会扩散到街头，就像今年夏天那样，当时一些人举行抗议示威活动，反对开发伊斯坦布尔的一座受人喜爱的公园，政府当时对活动进行了暴力镇压。周三晚上，伊斯坦布尔及其他一些城市的某些街区出现零星抗议活动，人们呼吁政府辞职，并高喊：“到处是贿赂！到处是腐败！”
On Wednesday morning, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan and Interior Minister Muammer Guler, whose sons are among 24 people arrested in the corruption investigation, stepped down. A few hours later the environment and urban planning minister, Erdogan Bayraktar, closest among the three to Mr. Erdogan, said in a live television interview that he had resigned under pressure. He also said Mr. Erdogan was personally involved in unspecified property deals that are a focus of the investigation.
周三上午，经济部长扎福尔·恰拉扬(Zafer Caglayan)和内政部长穆阿莫尔·居莱尔(Muammer Guler)辞职，他们的儿子就在腐败调查中被捕的24人之列。几个小时后，环境和城市规划部长埃尔多安·拜拉克塔(Erdogan Bayraktar)在一次电视直播采访中说，他在压力之下已经辞职，拜拉克塔是这三名部长中和埃尔多安走得最近的。他还说埃尔多安本人也被牵扯到一些未透露细节的房产交易中，这些交易是本次调查的一个重点。
“The prime minister has the right to work with the ministers he prefers,” Mr. Bayraktar said. “But I can’t accept this pressure on me to resign. The prime minister too has to resign.”
“总理有权决定跟什么人在内阁共事，”拜拉克塔说。“但为了让我辞职而施加压力是我无法接受的。总理也必须辞职。”
Soli Ozel, a columnist and professor at Kadir Has University in Istanbul, said: “This is extraordinarily dramatic. Bayraktar was someone who was very close to the prime minister. This is someone you’d expect to fall on his sword without question.”
卡迪尔·哈斯大学(Kadir Has University)教授、专栏作家索利·奥泽尔(Soli Ozel)说：“此事非常戏剧化。拜拉克塔跟总理过从甚密，你本以为这种人会毫无怨言地背黑锅。”
The resignations came after a week in which Mr. Erdogan’s government sought to purge the police forces of those it believes are behind the investigation, which has been linked to Fethullah Gulen, a popular Muslim spiritual leader in exile in Pennsylvania who has millions of followers in Turkey, including some who hold high positions within the police and judiciary. Mr. Erdogan and others have called them a “criminal gang” and a “state within a state.”
就在部长们辞职一周前，埃尔多安的政府还在试图把警察队伍中那些据信在支持调查的人清除出去，这些人和费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)有关——一位受人爱戴的穆斯林宗教领袖，目前在宾夕法尼亚州流亡，在土耳其有数以百万计的信众，包括一些在警察和司法系统内担任要职的人物。埃尔多安等人称他们是一个“犯罪团伙”，是一个“国中国”。
Turkey has faced many upheavals, with coups and power struggles that sometimes turned violent, but the current crisis is something new: a clash between two Islamist rivals that had once been united in overhauling the political system by pushing the military from politics.
土耳其经历了多次动乱，时有政变和权力斗争演变为暴力冲突，然而当前的危机是前所未有的：两个曾经携手把军方驱离政治、从而实现政治体制改革的伊斯兰派别出现不和。
Once ruled by secularists backed by powerful military generals, Turkey has seen the rise over the last decade of Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish initials A.K.P., that was rooted in political Islam but also included other partners, among them liberals and some on the nonreligious right.
土耳其曾经是由世俗人士领导的，这些人得到了手握重权的军方将领的支持，然而埃尔多安的正义与发展党(Justice and Development Party)在过去十年里崛起，这个政党是植根于伊斯兰政治人士的，但也有其他合作伙伴，包括自由派和一些非宗教右翼人士。
Most of the liberals and the nonreligious no longer support the A.K.P., and now that Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Gulen, who represent different Turkish Islamist traditions, are basically at war, the party is at risk of collapsing, said analysts.
多数的自由派和非宗教人士都已经不再支持正发党，分析人士称，如今分属土耳其伊斯兰两个不同传承派系的埃尔多安和居莱尔基本上已经开战，该党面临垮台的危险。
In another setback for Mr. Erdogan, a prominent A.K.P. lawmaker who was a former interior minister resigned from the party on Wednesday — not because he was implicated in the corruption investigation, but because he was disgusted by how the government was handling it, dismissing police officers and attacking the judiciary.
埃尔多安面临的另一个坏消息是一位曾任内政部长的正发党知名议员于周三退出正发党——并非因为被腐败调查牵连，而是他对当前政府清除警官、攻击司法系统的处事方式感到厌恶。
“It seems that within the A.K.P. things are spiraling out of control,” said Mr. Oktem, the research fellow at Oxford.
“目前看来此事在正发党内部引起的纷争已经失控，”牛津大学研究员约克塔姆说。
More broadly, the clash is also seen as a contest over the viability of political Islam, and comes after Islamist movements struggled to maintain power in postrevolution Egypt and Tunisia. “What we have seen in Egypt and Tunisia was a fight between Islamists and non-Islamists,” Mr. Oktem said. “What we are seeing in Turkey is between two Islamist movements.”
从总体上看，这场冲突还可以看作是对伊斯兰政治可行性的质疑，就在此前几年里，伊斯兰势力在后革命时代的埃及和突尼斯都在掌权时陷入困境。“我们在埃及和突尼斯看到的是伊斯兰派和非伊斯兰派的斗争，”约克塔姆说。“我们在土耳其看到的是两个伊斯兰派团体在斗争。”
The question is whether the clash will upend the Turkish political system. “This kind of power struggle between two different Islamist groups might make the non-Islamist, secular groups more powerful, in Turkey’s case,” Mr. Oktem said.
问题在于这场冲突是否会颠覆土耳其的政治体制。“在土耳其，这种两个伊斯兰派团体之间的权力斗争可能会助长非伊斯兰派、世俗团体的势力。”