A bribery and corruption scandal has plunged Turkey into crisis, seriously undermining Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s authority. Mr. Erdogan now faces serious challenges from both secularists suspicious of his Islamist agenda and his erstwhile ally turned rival, the cleric Fethullah Gulen, who leads a powerful Islamic movement from his perch in Pennsylvania. Sluggish economic growth and setbacks in foreign policy have only spurred the critics.
贿赂和腐败丑闻令土耳其陷入了危机，也严重损害了总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)的权威。埃尔多安现在面临着两重严峻挑战，分别来自怀疑他要走伊斯兰主义路线的世俗派，以及他从前的盟友、现在的对手费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)。居伦是一名居住在宾夕法尼亚州神职人员，在那里领导着一场声势浩大的伊斯兰运动。而土耳其经济增长乏力，外交政策受挫，又进一步激发了对埃尔多安的批评。
The political bickering is unlikely to let up before next year’s crucial presidential election, in which Mr. Erdogan is expected to run. He will have a difficult time repairing the tarnished image of his Justice and Development Party, or A.K.P. The economy will not give him a boost, but foreign policy might — if he can show that Turkey will once again play a central role in the Middle East.
在明年的关键总统大选举行之前，政治纷争不太可能平息下来，埃尔多安估计也会参加大选。要修复正义与发展党(Justice and Development Party)受损的形象会很困难，他无法从经济方面获得助力，但有可能从外交上得到支撑——如果他能证明土耳其会在中东地区再度发挥核心作用。
For over a decade, Turkey cultivated ties with its Arab neighbors. Turkish diplomats and businessmen were ubiquitous across the region, opening borders and trade routes, promoting business and brokering political deals. Turkey’s spectacular economic success and its stable Muslim democracy were hailed as a model for the whole region.
十多年来，土耳其与相邻的阿拉伯国家培育了良好的关系。该地区到处都活跃着土耳其外交官和商人的身影，他们开放边界，开辟贸易路线，促进商业发展，并通过斡旋达成政治妥协。令人瞩目的经济成就和稳定的穆斯林民主政治为土耳其赢得了赞誉，它被称为是整个地区的典范。
In the past year, however, Mr. Erdogan’s Middle East policy has gone adrift. Tumult across the region has eroded Turkey’s influence and dented its economic aspirations.
然而，在过去的一年里，埃尔多安的中东政策迷失了方向。地区内的动荡削弱了土耳其的影响力，令它无法实现经济上的抱负。
Disagreements over Syria and, more so, over Egypt have alienated the Arab world, placing a wedge between Turkey and Saudi Arabia in particular. The Turkish model for Muslim democracy is, after all, a milder version of the former Muslim Brotherhood government in Egypt — which, with Saudi help, the Egyptian military and secularists have done away with.
在叙利亚问题上的分歧让土耳其和阿拉伯世界关系变得疏远，而就埃及问题产生的分歧更加剧了双方的隔阂，尤其是在土耳其和沙特阿拉伯之间树起了一道障碍。毕竟，埃及此前的穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)政府追求的模式，与土耳其模式的穆斯林民主十分相似，只是后者更为温和。而在沙特的帮助下，埃及军方和世俗派把穆兄会政府赶下了台。
Turkey has denounced the ouster of Egypt’s Brotherhood government, but it can do little more than protest. Even doing that too volubly led to the expulsion of Turkey’s ambassador to Egypt.
土耳其对此表示了谴责，但土耳其除了抗议之外基本上无计可施。就连抗议也不能声势太大，因为抗议过于激烈，土耳其大使已经被埃及驱逐出境。
At the same time, disapproving Persian Gulf monarchies have cut back trade ties, hurting Turkey’s economy. All this has come at a difficult time for Mr. Erdogan.
与此同时，持不同立场的波斯湾君主制国家也减少了同土耳其的贸易联系，从而损害了土耳其的经济。对埃尔多安来说，事情可谓祸不单行。
Turkey’s relations with Israel have remained strained since a clash in 2010 over an aid flotilla to Gaza. And as Turkey’s pivotal role in the region declined, the United States stopped looking to Ankara for advice on how to manage the Middle East. Instead, Washington became concerned that the antigovernment protests sweeping the Arab world might destabilize Turkey, too.
自从2010年一支援助船队前往加沙，引起土耳其与以色列之间的冲突后，两国关系仍然很紧张。随着土耳其在该地区举足轻重的作用出现削弱，美国也不再向土耳其寻求应对中东问题的意见。美国政府反而开始担心，席卷阿拉伯世界的反政府抗议活动，可能也会破坏土耳其的稳定。
On the foreign policy front, at least, Mr. Erdogan’s luck may have changed. Now that America and Iran are talking seriously, things could be different. In sharp contrast to Israel and the Persian Gulf monarchies, which have been alarmed by the interim deal on Iran’s nuclear program, Turkey sees benefit in serving as a bridge between Iran and the West and in providing the gateway to the world that Tehran needs as it emerges from isolation.
至少在外交方面，埃尔多安可能已经开始转运了。由于美国和伊朗正在认真地举行谈判，事情可能会有所不同。针对伊朗核计划的临时协议让以色列和波斯湾的君主制国家感到坐立不安，与此形成鲜明对比的是，土耳其认为在伊朗和西方之间充当桥梁对自己是件好事，它可以为伊朗提供通往世界的门户，这正是伊朗逐步走出孤立之时所需要的。
The Iranian turn has come at an opportune time for Turkish foreign policy in other ways, too. Iran has influence with Iraq’s Shiite-led government and Syria’s Alawite elite. In Iraq, where a crucial oil deal hangs in the balance, Turkey needs Iranian cooperation. It also needs Iran’s help on Syria.
从其他方面来说，伊朗的转机对于土耳其外交也算来得正是时候。伊朗对伊拉克什叶派主导的政府，以及叙利亚的阿拉维派精英都能施加影响。在伊拉克，土耳其需要伊朗的合作，它跟伊拉克的一项重要石油协议还悬而未决。在叙利亚问题上，土耳其也需要伊朗的帮助。
Turkey initially tied its policy to America’s demand that President Bashar al-Assad quit. It was disappointed when the Obama administration signed on to a Russian-brokered deal with Mr. Assad on chemical weapons. With violence menacing across the border, Turkey wants to see an end to Syria’s civil war. The new moderate government in Tehran is Turkey’s best hope for leveraging a settlement.
刚开始时，土耳其将本国的政策，与美国要求叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)下台的主张绑在了一起。当奥巴马政府在俄罗斯的撮合下，与阿萨德就化学武器问题达成妥协时，土耳其颇感失望。随着国境线另一边的暴力冲突愈演愈烈，土耳其开始希望叙利亚的内战能尽早结束。对土耳其来说，伊朗新上台的温和派政府是解决冲突的最大希望。
Economic ties between Turkey and Iran have been strengthening, with trade now estimated to be worth $20 billion. The real number may be still higher, since the recent corruption charges allege that Turkish officials and the state-owned Halkbank have been helping Iranian businesses dodge international sanctions. In any case, Iranian exports still reach Turkey, and the proceeds fund the purchase of gold and silver that flow back to Iran. In turn, Turkey’s economy depends on Iran’s oil and gas, its investments dollars and large export market.
土耳其和伊朗的经济联系也在加强。据估计，双边贸易总额已达200亿美元（约合1210亿元人民币）。真实数据可能更高，因为近期的贪污指控称，土耳其官员和国有的国民银行(Halkbank)一直在帮伊朗企业逃脱国际制裁。无论如何，伊朗的出口商品还是能到达土耳其，而所得的收入会用来购买金银，然后流回伊朗。此外，土耳其经济也需要依赖伊朗的石油和天然气、投资，以及庞大的出口市场。
If Iran does conclude a long-term nuclear deal with the West, it still cannot expect a warm welcome from the Sunni Arab world. With the region divided by a widening sectarian rift, the Persian Gulf monarchies will become only more fretful about Iran’s regional ambitions. That makes Turkey potentially a key strategic partner for Iran, especially if its economy starts to grow as sanctions are relaxed.
即使伊朗的确能与西方达成长期的核协议，它仍然无法在逊尼派主导的阿拉伯世界受到热烈欢迎。由于地区内宗派分歧日益加剧，波斯湾的君主制国家只会对伊朗在地区内的野心越发感到不安。因此，土耳其可能会成为伊朗的重要战略伙伴，特别是当它的经济随着制裁放松而开始增长的话。
With American influence in the region in decline, and with Israel and the Persian Gulf monarchies finding themselves united in their opposition to Iran, Turkey could find itself playing a central role thanks to its links with Iran. A new Turkish-Iranian partnership could be a welcome development for the West: Turkey’s economic ties could boost Iran’s commercial development, which would help consolidate the political position of the moderates in Tehran. The real gains would come if a closer relationship with Turkey began to erode the alliance of militias and radical religious forces on which Iran has relied to project its influence.
随着美国对该地区的影响力逐渐削弱，而且以色列和波斯湾的君主制国家一致反对伊朗，土耳其可能会因为与伊朗存在联系而发挥重要作用。西方应该会欢迎土耳其与伊朗之间发展出新的伙伴关系：土耳其的经贸关系可以促进伊朗的商业发展，这有助于巩固温和派在德黑兰的政治地位。如果土耳其与伊朗建立起更密切的联系，伊朗与武装人员和激进宗教势力的联盟就会削弱，伊朗对外施加影响力时一直在依赖这种联系。这样一来，就能产生一些切实的收益。
To play this enlarged regional role, though, Turkey must first reassure the West that it will remain a trusted NATO ally and not demonize Western allies as a way of managing political dissent at home. However Mr. Erdogan’s domestic difficulties fall out, Turkey has an opportunity to restore its international standing. It will have to show that it is not simply an advocate for Iran, but has used its influence to shift Iran’s foreign policy and facilitate a permanent nuclear deal.
然而，要想担负起更重要的地区角色，土耳其必须首先让西方确信，它仍是一个值得信赖的北约(NATO)盟友，而且也不会为了控制国内的政治异见人士而丑化西方盟友。不管埃尔多安在国内面临的困难会如何发展，土耳其仍有机会恢复自己的国际地位。它必须表明自己不仅是伊朗的支持者，而且还曾利用自己的影响力改变了伊朗的外交政策，并促成了永久性核协议的达成。