ISTANBUL — He has called women unequal to men. He has demanded that some high school students learn an Ottoman-era script scrapped nearly a century ago. Now, he has described birth control as treasonous.
伊斯坦布尔——他说女性和男性不平等。他要求中学生学习一种已在近一个世纪之前废除的奥斯曼时代的字母表。现在，他又形容控制生育相当于叛国。
In his campaign to buttress what he sees as Turkey’s rightful place in the world, the president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has offended many who view his assertions as sexist, paranoid or outdated.
土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)正试图巩固他眼中土耳其在世界上的正当地位。他的此番举动冒犯了许多人，这些人认为他的言论过时、神经质，而且涉及性别歧视。
The latest came on Sunday, when Mr. Erdogan upstaged a wedding couple with a speech in which he described birth control as a threat to the country’s lineage.
周日又发生了最新的情节，埃尔多安在一场婚礼上抢了新婚夫妇的风头。他发表讲话称，节育是对该国血统的威胁。
As a witness to the newlyweds, the president urged them to have at least three children, and blamed contraception advocates for hindering the country’s growth.
作为新婚夫妇的证婚人，总统敦促他们至少生三个孩子，他还批评避孕推广者妨碍了国家的发展。
“For years they committed a treason of birth control in this country, seeking to dry up our bloodline,” he said in a speech during the wedding ceremony. “Lineage is very important, both economically and spiritually.”
“多年以来，他们在这个国家推行节育，这犯下了叛国罪行，是在试图让我们的血脉干涸，”他在结婚典礼上发言时称。“血统十分重要，无论在经济上还是精神上都是如此。”
Mr. Erdogan, an Islamist leader, has made comments on the subject of reproduction that others view as divisive and chauvinist. Over the course of his 11 years as the dominant leader of Turkey, he has expressed strong opposition toward abortion and contraception, and has called on women to have at least three children, but preferably four or five.
伊斯兰派领袖埃尔多安曾对生育议题发表过很多言论，外界认为这些言论会引发争议，且有沙文主义色彩。在埃尔多安担任领导人，把持土耳其的11年里，曾表达过反对堕胎和避孕的强硬立场，还曾呼吁妇女生育至少三个孩子，最好生四五个。
But until now he had not equated birth control with an act of treason.
但在此前，他从来没有将节育等同于叛国行为。
Last month, he drew the ire of women when he declared that they were not equal to men. Speaking at a women’s conference, he said Islam had “defined a position for women: motherhood.”
上个月，他宣称女性与男性不是平等的，这招致了女性的愤怒。他在一个妇女会议上讲话时说，伊斯兰教“已经为女性设定了一个位置，那就是母亲”。
Explaining his position, Mr. Erdogan said: “Some people can understand this, while others can’t. You cannot explain this to feminists because they don’t accept the concept of motherhood.”
埃尔多安在解释自己的立场时说，“有人能理解这一点，有人则不能。没办法向女权主义者解释这一点，因为那些人不接受做母亲这种概念。”
His comments set off a wave of criticism from women’s rights advocates, who warned that such remarks undermined the role of women in society, which leads to discrimination and violence.
女权倡导人士对他的言论提出了批评。他们警告称，这样的言论抹杀了女性在社会上扮演的角色，这会引发歧视和暴力。
“This is not just about the president interfering in people’s private lives,” said Ebru Kazanc, a member of the Platform to Stop Violence Against Women. “He is actively stalling the process for women to obtain equal rights in this country.”
“问题不仅是总统干涉民众的私生活，”活动人士艾布茹·卡赞奇(Ebru Kazanc)说。“他还在积极地阻挠女性在这个国家取得平等权利的进程。”卡赞奇是“制止针对妇女暴力活动联盟”(Platform to Stop Violence Against Women)的成员。
Mr. Erdogan’s critics say that the president sometimes resorts to inflammatory comments about women to divert attention from pressing issues in the political agenda.
埃尔多安的批评者说，他有时候发表针对女性的煽动性言论，是为了转移民众对政治议程中更紧迫议题的注意力。