President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey said on Wednesday that he had no doubt the assassin of Russia’s ambassador had belonged to the outlawed Turkish organization of Mr. Erdogan’s rival, Fethullah Gulen.
土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)在周三表示，他毫不怀疑，枪杀俄罗斯大使的刺客是其政敌费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)所领导的那个非法组织的成员。
The president’s assertion, 48 hours after the ambassador was gunned down by an off-duty police officer at an Ankara art gallery, essentially doubled down on the Turkish government’s contention that evidence showed the assassin was a sleeper agent of Mr. Gulen, a Muslim cleric.
俄罗斯大使是在安卡拉的一家画廊里被一名不当班的警察枪杀的，土耳其政府称，有证据表明刺客是穆斯林神职人员居伦安插的卧底，而总统在案发48小时后发表的这项声明，基本上是在大力支持政府的说法。
Mr. Gulen, who lives in exile in the United States, has denounced the assassination and denied any complicity in it. His spokesman has called such accusations “nonsense” meant to distract attention from what amounts to a spectacular security lapse in the Turkish capital.
流亡美国的居伦对这起暗杀进行了谴责，并否认自己是共谋。他的发言人称这种指控是“胡扯”，旨在分散公众对土耳其首都安保领域重大失误的注意力。
The Russian ambassador, Andrey G. Karlov, was shot multiple times on Monday evening by the off-duty policeman, Mevlut Mert Altintas, 22, who shouted jihadist slogans and said, “Don’t forget Aleppo, don’t forget Syria!” His words suggested he was avenging victims of Russia’s intervention in the Syrian conflict. Mr. Altintas was fatally shot by other police officers.
本周一，俄罗斯大使安德烈·G·卡尔洛夫(Andrey G. Karlov)被不当班的警察麦夫柳特•迈尔特•奥金塔斯(Mevlut Mert Altintas)击中数枪。22岁的奥金塔斯当时高喊圣战者口号，并说“不要忘记阿勒颇，不要忘记叙利亚！”，表明他是在为俄罗斯干预叙利亚冲突的受害者复仇。后来奥金塔斯被其他警察击毙。
“There is no reason to hide that he’s a member of the Feto network,” Mr. Erdogan was quoted as saying by Turkish news media, using the acronym for Mr. Gulen’s organization, which has been banned as a terrorist group. “All his connections, from where he was educated to his links, point to Feto.”
“没必要隐瞒他是Feto的成员，”土耳其新闻机构援引埃尔多安的话表示，这里使用了居伦组织的首字母缩写，它被作为一个恐怖组织遭到明令禁止。“从他受教育的地方，到他的联系人，所有的关联都指向Feto。”
The government of Russia, which has sent investigators to Turkey to collaborate on the inquiry into Mr. Karlov’s assassination, has been far more cautious in public statements about the killer’s possible affiliation or motive, saying it was premature to draw any conclusions.
俄罗斯政府已经派调查人员前往土耳其配合调查卡尔洛夫暗杀事件，在发布有关凶手可能所属的组织或其潜在动机的公开声明方面，则谨慎得多，称目前下结论还为时过早。
Mr. Gulen has been accused by the Turkish government of remotely directing the failed coup attempt on July 15, which he has denied. Since then, the government has requested his extradition from the United States and arrested or dismissed thousands of people in the security forces, civil services and educational institutions suspected of being Gulen followers, describing them as seditious infiltrators.
土耳其政府指控居伦远程指挥了7月15日那次未遂政变，他否认了这项指控。自那之后，土耳其政府便要求美国将他引渡回土耳其，进行逮捕，否则就解雇被怀疑为居伦追随者的数千名安全部队、政府机关和教育机构工作人员，称他们是煽动叛乱的渗透者。
The purge was further widened on Wednesday with the suspension of nearly 2,000 teachers and school employees, Reuters reported from Ankara, quoting an unidentified Education Ministry official.
据路透社从安卡拉发来的报道，一名未透露姓名的教育部官员说，这次清洗行动在周三进一步扩大，有近2000名教师和学校雇员遭到停职。
The Turkish authorities also have arrested more than 100 journalists and closed dozens of news media outlets, in what press activists have called an unprecedented repression. The Committee to Protect Journalists, an advocacy group, reported on Dec. 13 that Turkey has become the world’s leading jailer of journalists.
在这场被媒体活动人士称为前所未有的打压行动中，土耳其当局还逮捕了100多名记者，关掉了几十家媒体机构。倡导组织保护记者委员会(The Committee to Protect Journalists)12月13日称，土耳其已经成为世界上关押记者人数最多的国家。