MURSITPINAR, Turkey — Turkey will allow Iraqi Kurdish forces, known as pesh merga, to cross its border with Syria to help fight militants from the group called the Islamic State who have besieged the Syrian town of Kobani for more than a month, the Turkish foreign minister announced Monday.
土耳其米尔希特珀纳尔——土耳其外长周一宣布，该国将允许名为“敢死军”(pesh merga)的伊拉克库尔德部队穿越其与叙利亚的边界线，协助打击来自“伊斯兰国”(Islamic State)的武装分子。这些武装分子已对叙利亚城镇科巴尼围攻了逾一个月。
The decision represents an important shift by the Turkish government, which has angered Kurdish leaders and frustrated Washington for weeks by refusing to allow fighters or weapons to cross its border in support of the Kurdish fighters defending the town. Speaking at a news conference in Ankara, the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said that his government was “helping the pesh merga cross over to Kobani.”
这一决定代表着土耳其政府的立场发生了重大转变。数周来，因为拒绝允许人员或武器穿越该国边境去支援保卫科巴尼的库尔德武装，土耳其政府惹恼了库尔德领袖，也让华盛顿颇为不满。在安卡拉的新闻发布会上，土耳其外长梅夫吕特·恰武什奥卢(Mevlut Cavusoglu)表示，他所在的政府将“协助敢死军越境前往科巴尼”。
The announcement, along with an American decision to use military aircraft to drop ammunition and small to resupply Kobani, reflected escalating international pressure to push back Islamic State militants. As the United States-led coalition has increased its airstrikes as well as its coordination with the Kurdish fighters, who have provided targeting information, the militants have lost momentum after appearing close to overrunning the town..
此番声明，加上美国做出的用军用飞机投掷弹药和小件物品以对科巴尼进行补给的决定，反映出国际社会击退伊斯兰国武装分子的压力不断升级。随着以美国为首的盟军加强空袭，并增加与提供目标情报的库尔德武装人员之间的协调，伊斯兰国武装分子的势头已得到削弱。之前，他们眼看就要占领这座城镇了。
The battle has become a closely watched test for the Obama administration’s policy of combining air power with reliance on local forces on the ground to fight the militant group in Iraq and in Syria. At the same time, the American effort has been criticized — including by the Turks — as too selective and ineffective in stopping the suffering of other cities, under bombardment by the Syrian government or menaced by militants, in a war that has killed more than 200,000 Syrians.
这场战役受到了密切关注，已经成为了对奥巴马政府打击伊拉克和叙利亚境内该激进团体的政策的一场考验。奥巴马政府的策略是，将空军力量与对当地地面部队的倚仗结合起来。与此同时，美国的行动一直在遭受批评——包括来自土耳其的批评。这种声音认为，在一场已导致超过20万叙利亚人死亡的战争中，美国过于具有选择性，并且表现不力，未能阻止其他城市处于叙利亚政府的炮轰之下，或是受到武装分子的威胁。
The Turks’ refusal to allow large amounts of military aid to flow to the defenders of Kobani has also raised tensions across Turkey, where Kurds have accused the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of abandoning the city to the militants of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
土耳其拒绝允许大量军事援助流向科巴尼保卫者的决定，也导致了其国内局势紧张。土耳其境内的库尔德人指责总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)放任科巴尼落入伊斯兰国之手。伊斯兰国又被简称为ISIS或ISIL。
Turkey has been reluctant to empower the Kurdish fighters in Kobani, who are affiliated with the Kurdish Workers’ Party, or P.K.K. That group has fought a three-decade war against the Turkish government, though there have been peace talks for the last year and a half. Turkey, along with the United States and the European Union, considers the group a terrorist organization.
土耳其一直不愿壮大科巴尼的库尔德武装的力量。这群武装人员隶属于库尔德工人党（Kurdistan Workers' Party，缩写为PKK）。尽管过去一年半时间里，双方在进行和平谈判，但该组织已与土耳其政府交战30年。土耳其、美国和欧盟均认定PKK是一个恐怖组织。
Turkey’s decision also suggested that it had quietly agreed to the United States’ decision to airdrop weapons and ammunition to Kobani’s defenders.
土耳其的最新决定也表明，它已默许美国为科巴尼的守卫者空投武器和弹药。
Mr. Obama spoke with Mr. Erdogan on Saturday, and notified him of the decision to conduct the airdrops, American officials said. It was not clear what kind of deal had been struck, though analysts said Turkey probably wanted assurances that the supplies would not be used by the P.K.K. against Turkey.
美国官员称，奥巴马周六与埃尔多安进行了通话，告知他美国的空投决定。尚不清楚双方达成了什么协议，但分析人士称，土耳其很可能希望的是，得到这批补给不会被PKK用来对付自己的保证。
American officials speaking on a conference call with reporters late Sunday declined to characterize Turkey’s reaction to the airdrops. They said the Obama administration had “made clear to the Turkish government for some days now the urgency of facilitating resupply,” a senior official said on the call, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
周日夜里与记者举行电话会议的美国官员拒绝详述土耳其对空投的反应。在会上，一位要求不具名的高级官员表示，奥巴马政府“这段日子里”已经“向土耳其政府阐明了协助补给的紧迫性”。
Kurdish fighters, backed by an intensifying campaign of airstrikes by the United States-led military coalition, succeeded last week in pushing the militants back in several places around Kobani, including in the west of the city. The militants counterattacked, sending car bombs to Kobani and harassing their opponents with heavy mortar fire over the last few days.
上周，在美国领导的盟军日益加强的空袭的掩护下，库尔德武装成功地在科巴尼的多个区域迫使武装分子回撤，其中包括这座城镇的西部地区。武装分子发动了反击，过去几天，他们把汽车炸弹送到科巴尼，而且还在用大量迫击炮袭击对手。
Kurdish officials had repeatedly complained that without new supplies of ammunition and weapons, the airstrikes would not be sufficient to drive away the militants. On Monday, a commander in Kobani, Abu Hasan, said that “spirits and morale were high,” after the airdrops, which United States officials said included 27 palettes from Iraqi Kurdish authorities and contained medical supplies, ammunition and weapons.
库尔德官员多次抱怨，如果没有新的弹药和武器补给，盟军的空袭将不足以赶走那些武装分子。周一，科巴尼的指挥官之一阿布·哈桑(Abu Hasan)称，空投之后，“人们精神振奋、士气高昂”。美国官员称，空投物资包括来自伊拉克库尔德当局的27个集装托盘，里面装有医药用品、弹药和武器。
The containers fell to the west of Kobani at about 4 a.m. local time, he said, adding that one palette that fell astray was destroyed to prevent it from falling into militant hands.
他说，当地时间下午4点左右，这些托盘落到了科巴尼西部，其中一个托盘未投到规定地点。为了防止落入武装分子之手，它已被摧毁。
Polat Can, a spokesman for the Kurdish fighters in Syria, said that shipment included antitank weapons. He said that the Kurdish forces were expecting more airdrops in the coming days.
叙利亚库尔德武装发言人波拉特·詹恩(Polat Can)称，这批物资中包括反坦克武器。他表示，库尔德部队希望未来几天能有更多的空投物资。
There was less visible fighting in the city during the day. In the afternoon, fires started appearing to the east of the city, an area still partially controlled by Islamic State fighters, and residents fretted that the militants were torching homes.
白天，城里可见的冲突变少了。下午时分，在仍然由伊斯兰国武装分子控制的科巴尼东部地区，开始有火苗冒出，居民担心他们在放火焚烧民居。
Mr. Cavusoglu did not say how or when the pesh merga fighters would cross into Kobani. Late Monday, Hemin Hawrami, an Iraqi Kurdish official, wrote on Twitter that the fighters had been ordered to deploy in the next 48 hours.
恰武什奥卢并未说明敢死军武装人员将于何时或以何种方式进入科巴尼。周一夜里，伊拉克库尔德官员赫明·哈夫拉米(Hemin Hawrami)在Twitter上写道，武装人员已经接到命令，要在接下来的48小时进行部署。
A senior Pentagon official said on Monday, speaking on the condition of anonymity, that “it will be a significant change to be able to have a free flow of fighters going into Kobani.”
周一，美国国防部的一位要求不具名的高级官员表示，“武装人员能自由进入科巴尼的话，将带来重大转变。”
A Kurdish defense official in Kobani, Ismet Sheikh Hassan said he had not been given any information about when the pesh merga would arrive. He welcomed the influx, while asserting that the Kurdish fighters already in the city — members of the People’s Protection Forces, the Y.P.G. — were not desperate for more fighters.
科巴尼的库尔德防务官员伊斯梅特·谢赫·哈桑(Ismet Sheikh Hassan)称，他尚未得到关于敢死军抵达时间的任何信息。他对人员的到来表示欢迎，但同时强调，城里的库尔德武装——人民保卫军（People’s Protection Forces，简称YPG）——并未落到亟需增援的地步。