ISTANBUL — When the Iraqi city of Mosul was captured on June 10 by the armed militias of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, many world leaders were shocked and concerned. Turkey’s leaders were more alarmed than most; ISIS militants stormed the Turkish consulate in Mosul and kidnapped 100 Turkish citizens, some of them diplomats. As I write, the hostages, including two babies, are still in the hands of ISIS.
伊斯坦布尔——6月10日，伊拉克城市摩苏尔落入了伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）武装分子之手，全球多位领导人为此震惊不已、忧心忡忡。土耳其领导人比大多数人更为警惕；ISIS武装分子袭击了土耳其驻摩苏尔领事馆，绑架了100名土耳其公民，其中有部分公民是外交官。当我撰写这篇报道时，包括两名婴儿在内的人质依然还在ISIS手中。
Back in Turkey, a heated media debate abruptly came to a halt after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in his usual authoritarian tone, asked the media “to follow this issue silently.” Two days later, an Ankara court issued a gag order, banning all sorts of news and commentary on the events in Mosul. The reason, the court explained, was first “to protect the safety of the hostages” but also to prevent “news that depicts the state in weakness.”
回过来说土耳其，总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)以他常用的专制口吻要求媒体“默默追踪这个问题”，热烈的媒体讨论由此嘎然而止。两日之后，安卡拉的一家法院公布了禁言令，禁止发布关于摩苏尔事件的各类新闻和评论。该法院解释称，这首先是为了“保护人质的安全”，其次是为了防止“出现把国家刻画得软弱无力的新闻。”
But Turks need to discuss their state’s weaknesses, and the mistakes made in the multiple crises along the country’s southeastern borders. And they should do this without falling into the deep polarization that has plagued Turkey’s political landscape recently. This is not about being for or against Mr. Erdogan; it is about Turkey’s future security and its relationship with its troubled southern neighbors.
然而，土耳其人有必要展开讨论，对象就是本国的弱点和政府在东南边境一线爆发的多次危机中所犯下的错误。他们的讨论不该沦为两极分化的对立，最近，这种对立状态已令土耳其政坛深受困扰。这与支持还是反对埃尔多安无关；而是事关土耳其日后的安全，以及该国与其深陷困境的南部邻国的关系。
In fact, Mr. Erdogan and his professor-turned-foreign minister Ahmet Davutoglu deserve credit for abandoning Turkey’s traditional conservative foreign policy, which only focused on protecting the status quo and responding to new developments defensively. Mr. Davutoglu’s famous goal of having “zero problems with neighbors” was an expression of the vision that the world around Turkey might change and that Turks could play a pivotal role in shaping it.
事实上，埃尔多安和教授出身的土耳其外长哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)抛弃了土耳其传统的保守外交政策，此举值得赞扬。原来的外交政策只专注于维持现状，并以守势应对新动向。达武特奥卢公布的“与邻国之间零问题”的著名目标表明了一种见解，即土耳其周围的环境可能会改变，土耳其人在周围环境的塑造上可能会发挥关键作用。
This vision worked well for a while, and the Erdogan-Davutoglu team even felt that, with the chain of Arab Revolutions in 2011, the time had come for their moderately Islamic “Turkish model” to serve as an example for the whole region. This was not a bad idea, the veteran Turkey and Middle East expert Graham Fuller explains in his new book, “Turkey and the Arab Spring.” Yet too much idealism, if not ideology, along with overestimating Turkey’s power, led to some serious mistakes.
这种策略一度相当奏效，埃尔多安和达武特奥卢领导的团队甚至觉得，随着2011年发生一系列的阿拉伯革命(Arab Revolution)，把适度伊斯兰化的“土耳其模式”竖为地区范本的时机已经成熟。研究土耳其和中东事务的资深专家格雷厄姆·富勒(Graham Fuller)在他的新书《土耳其和阿拉伯之春》(Turkey and the Arab Spring)中解释说，这不是一个坏主意。然而，过度的理想主义，假如那尚算不上意识形态的话，和对土耳其实力的高估导致了一些严重的错误。
In Syria, Turkey’s first mistake was to underestimate the durability of President Bashar al-Assad, who had quickly turned from friend to enemy. The second mistake was to underestimate the threat posed by radical jihadist groups such as ISIS that had gradually overshadowed the more moderate and democratic-minded Syrian opposition.
在叙利亚，土耳其的第一个错误是低估了迅速从朋友变成敌人的总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的耐力。第二个错误是低估了ISIS这类极端圣战组织构成的威胁，它们已逐渐压过更温和、更具民主思想的叙利亚反对派。
To be fair, Turkey didn’t willingly nurture a Qaeda offshoot beyond its borders. But by focusing so singularly on toppling Mr. Assad, and turning a blind eye for quite some time to the anti-Assad extremists, it unwittingly helped create a monster.
公平地说，土耳其并没有刻意在境外扶持基地(Qaeda)势力的分支。然而，他们一门心思专注于推翻阿萨德，却在相当长的时间内对反对阿萨德的极端分子熟视无睹，此举不经意地催生了一头怪物。
Yet still there is one bright spot in the region — and it is a direct result of Mr. Davutoglu’s “zero problems” vision: Iraqi Kurdistan, which is now Turkey’s best ally in Iraq, if not the whole region.
但是该区域仍然有一个亮点——它是达武特奥卢“零问题”愿景的直接结果：伊拉克库尔德斯坦目前就算不是整个地区里的最佳盟友，也是土耳其在伊拉克的最佳盟友。
This is deeply ironic, of course, because for decades Turkey was paranoid about Kurds and their political ambitions — both at home and abroad. The Erdogan-Davutoglu team, along with President Abdullah Gul, gradually turned this bitterness with the Kurds into reconciliation and eventually an alliance.
当然，这非常具有讽刺性，因为数十年来，土耳其都对库尔德人及其在国内外的政治野心十分多疑。埃尔多安-达武特奥卢团队和土耳其总统阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)一起努力，逐步化解了与库尔德人之间的不睦，并最终结成同盟。
The alliance between Turkey and Iraqi Kurdistan has grown over the past five years, as Turkey invested heavily in the partly autonomous Iraqi region, opened a consulate in its capital Erbil, and Mr. Erdogan even befriended its leader, Masoud Barzani.
在过去的五年中，随着土耳其在伊拉克库尔德斯坦投入巨资，在其首府埃尔比勒开设领事馆，以及埃尔多安甚至与该地区领袖马苏德·巴尔扎尼(Masoud Barzani)以友相待，土耳其和这个部分自治的伊拉克地区之间的同盟关系发展了起来。
The relationship was further cemented earlier this month, when Ankara signed a 50-year deal with Iraqi Kurdistan’s leaders, allowing them to export Kurdish oil to the world via a pipeline that runs through Turkey. The deal, which was opposed by Iraq’s central government in Baghdad, indicates that Turkey now sees Iraqi Kurdistan as a strategic partner, and cares very little about the territorial integrity of Iraq that it used to obsess about.
本月初，这种关系得到了进一步巩固：安卡拉与伊拉克库尔德斯坦的领导者们签署了一份为期50年的合同，让他们利用经过土耳其的管道，把库尔德石油出口到世界各地。这个交易曾遭到伊拉克巴格达中央政府的反对，它的签署表明土耳其现在已经把伊拉克库尔德斯坦视为战略合作伙伴，而对于自己曾经顽固坚持的伊拉克领土完整几乎不再关心。
It’s no wonder, then, that a spokesman for Mr. Erdogan’s party recently announced that Turkey would support Iraqi Kurds’ bid for self-determination. “The Kurds of Iraq can decide for themselves the name and type of the entity they are living in,” he said — a clear departure from traditional Turkish policy.
因此，这也就难怪，埃尔多安所在党派的一名发言人近日会宣布，土耳其将支持伊拉克库尔德人争取民族自决权。“伊拉克的库尔德人可以自己决定其政体的名称和类型，”他说，而这明显背离了土耳其历来的政策。
Apparently, Turkey is now willing to welcome Iraqi Kurds, perhaps even Syrian ones, as allies and to serve as a buffer between Turkey and the chaos in both of those countries. This could prove a very wise strategy, especially if it can be combined with a successful domestic peace process that ends the long-running conflict with Turkey’s own Kurdish nationalists, who for years used bases in northern Iraq and Syria to attack Turkish soldiers in the majority-Kurdish southeastern regions of the country.
显然，土耳其现在愿意欢迎伊拉克库尔德人，甚至叙利亚库尔德人，成为自己的盟友，并成为土耳其和这两个国家混乱状况之间的缓冲。事实可能会证明这是一个非常明智的策略，尤其是如果它可以和土耳其本国的一个和平进程相结合，成功地结束其国内的长期冲突——土耳其本国的库尔德民族主义者，多年来利用伊拉克北部和叙利亚境内的基地，在库尔德人占多数的土耳其东南部地区攻击土耳其士兵。
But Turkey’s leaders need to show the same sort of wisdom and flexibility on other issues, too. The reconciliation with the Kurds was partly possible because Mr. Erdogan and his colleagues largely freed themselves from the ideological constraints of ethnic Turkish nationalism, which was a hallmark of most of their secular predecessors.
但土耳其的领导者们也需要在其他问题上的表现出同样的智慧和灵活性。在某种程度上，与库尔德人达成和解之所以成为可能，是因为埃尔多安和他的同事基本上已经打破了土耳其民族主义意识形态的限制，而那种意识形态曾是他们的大多数世俗派前任的一个标志。