ISTANBUL — A slim majority of Turkish voters agreed on Sunday to grant sweeping powers to their president, in a watershed moment that the country’s opposition fears may cement a system of authoritarian rule within one of the critical power brokers of the Middle East.
伊斯坦布尔——周日，土耳其选民以微弱多数同意赋予他们的总统广泛权力，这堪称一个分水岭时刻，该国反对党担心此举可能会巩固中东最关键的权力掮客国家的独裁统治制度。
With nearly 99 percent of votes in a referendum counted on Sunday night, supporters of the proposal had 51.3 percent of votes cast, and opponents had 48.7 percent, the country’s electoral commission announced.
土耳其选举委员会宣布，在周日晚近99%的全民公投已清点票数中，这项提议的支持者占51.3%，反对者占48.7%。
The result will take days to confirm, and the main opposition party said it would demand a recount of about 37 percent of ballot boxes, containing around 2.5 million votes.
这个结果将需要数天时间进行确认。该国主要的反对党表示，需要对大约37%的投票箱重新计票，其中包含约250万张选票。
But on Sunday night the result was already a political reality, as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan hailed his victory in front of a crowd of supporters in Istanbul. “We are enacting the most important governmental reform of our history,” he said.
但是，当土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)在伊斯坦布尔面对一群支持者为自己的胜利欢呼时，周日晚上的计票结果已经变成了一种政治现实。“我们在实施本国历史上最重要的政府改革，”他说。
The constitutional change will allow the winner of the 2019 presidential election to assume full control of the government, ending the current parliamentary political system.
这次修宪将允许2019年总统大选的获胜者完全掌控政府，由此终结目前的议会政治制度。
The ramifications, however, are immediate. The “yes” vote in the referendum is a validation of the current leadership style of Erdogan, who has been acting as a de facto head of government since his election in 2014 despite having no constitutional right to wield such power. The office of Turkey’s president was meant to be an impartial role without full executive authority.
然而，其后果却是即时的。公投中的“赞成”票是对埃尔多安目前的领导风格的一种认可——自2014年当选以来，他一直在扮演着事实上的政府领导者角色，尽管他并没有获得行使这种权力的宪法权利。土耳其总统办公室本该扮演一个没有完全行政权力的中立角色。
The result tightens Erdogan’s grip on the country, which is one of the leading external actors in the Syrian civil war, a major way station along the migration routes to Europe and a crucial Middle Eastern partner of the United States and Russia.
这种结果加强了埃尔多安对土耳其的控制，这个国家是叙利亚内战主要的外部角色之一，是通往欧洲的移民路线上一个重要的中转站，也是美国和俄罗斯在中东一个关键的合作伙伴。
The opposition questioned the legitimacy of the referendum after the election board made a last-minute decision to increase the burden needed to prove accusations of ballot-box stuffing. At least three instances of alleged voter fraud appeared to be captured on camera.
在选举委员会于最后关头决定增加证明指控投伪造选票的难度后，反对党对公投的合法性表示质疑。镜头似乎至少捕捉到了三起据称是选票伪造行为的例子。
“We are receiving thousands of complaints on election fraud,” said Erdal Aksunger, deputy head of the main opposition party, the Republican People’s Party, known as the CHP. “We are evaluating them one by one.”
“我们收到了数千个有关选举造假的投诉，”主要的反对党共和人民党（Republican People’s Party，简称DHP）的副主席埃达尔·阿克松格(Erdal Aksunger)说。“我们在一个个地对它们进行评估。”