ISTANBUL — In his time in power, more than a decade now, Turkey’s prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has alienated large portions of the population for his seeming intrusions into private lives. He has told women how many children they should have, has sought to outlaw abortion and adultery and to limit alcohol consumption and once, oddly, went on a public tirade against white bread.
伊斯坦布尔——在土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)迄今掌权的十几年里，他的种种做法让人感觉是在干涉私人生活，因而令很大一部分土耳其人对他产生不满。他告诉妇女们应该生几个孩子，寻求颁布法律禁止堕胎和通奸，而且还限制饮酒。他还曾莫名其妙地对白面包公开发表了一通激烈的指责。
Many Turks who had once supported Mr. Erdogan’s democratic overhauls, like securing civilian control over the military, came to see such pronouncements as grating and abrasive, even evidence of a rising authoritarian style. That contributed to the sweeping antigovernment protests over the summer that presented the gravest crisis to the leadership of Mr. Erdogan and his Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party, known by its Turkish initials, A.K.P.
许多土耳其人曾经支持过埃尔多安的民主改革措施，比如确保文职政府控制军方，但这些人逐渐开始认为，埃尔多安的上述举动过于严厉粗暴，甚至证明了其日益加剧的独裁作风。这引发了今年夏天大范围的反政府抗议活动。这场抗议对埃尔多安的执政地位，以及他领导的伊斯兰主义政党正义与发展党(Justice and Development Party)，构成了最为严峻的危机。
Now Mr. Erdogan, who had largely tempered his divisive language in the months after the unrest, has raised a storm of protest, saying this week that he wants to outlaw coed dormitories at state universities, and even extend the crackdown to off-campus housing shared by male and female students. Once again, Mr. Erdogan, with his words, has pushed Turkey’s culture wars to the fore, underscoring deep divisions between the secular and the religious, and prompting the sort of controversy many even within his own party had hoped to avoid in the aftermath of the protests and just before Turkey enters an election cycle.
在动荡平息了几个月之后，埃尔多安基本上收敛了容易激发分歧的表态。但现在，他又引发了一波抗议风潮。埃尔多安本周表示，他想要禁止公立大学里男女生混住同一宿舍楼，甚至将打击范围扩展到了校外男女生混居的住房。埃尔多安用他的言论再一次把土耳其的文化战争推到了风口浪尖，这突显出世俗派和宗教立场保守的人之间存在深层次的分歧。而在经历过夏天的抗议活动之后、土耳其即将进入大选周期之际，即使在埃尔多安领导的政党内部，许多人都希望能避免引起这样的争议。
Invoking his credentials as a conservative, and saying that the government receives “intelligence” about what goes on inside coed housing facilities, Mr. Erdogan was quoted in the Turkish news media as saying to a weekly meeting of his party’s lawmakers: “Anything can happen. Then parents cry out, saying, ‘Where is the state?’ These steps are being taken in order to show that the state is there. As a conservative, democratic government, we need to intervene.”
埃尔多安在媒体上表明自己的保守派身份时，表示政府得到了“情报”，了解男女混合居住的宿舍中发生的情况。土耳其新闻媒体报道，埃尔多安在一次每周例会上对其政党的议员们说：“什么事都有可能发生。然后家长就会抗议，政府哪去了？采取这些措施是为了表明政府没有坐视不管。作为一个保守、民主的政府，我们必须介入。”
On Tuesday, political talk shows that normally take on a number of issues devoted much of their broadcasts to the dispute set off by Mr. Erdogan’s comments. Some newspaper columnists seemed to relish the topic and the return, after the withering of the protest movement, of Mr. Erdogan’s words whipping up the cultural currents.
土耳其的政治脱口秀节目一般都会谈论若干项问题，但周二，它们将大部分节目时间，花在了埃尔多安的言论所引发的争议上。一些报纸的专栏作家似乎热衷于讨论这个话题，而且也热衷于讨论，在抗议活动平息之后，埃尔多安的发言又激起文化冲突。
“We are face to face with a prime minister who thinks it is his right to impose his moral sentiment into our homes, and control our personal space with his governors and his police,” wrote Ezgi Basaran, a columnist in the left-leaning Radikal.
左倾报纸《激进报》(Radikal)的专栏作家埃兹吉·巴夏兰(Ezgi Basaran)写道，“我们面对的是这样一位总理，他认为自己有权把他的道德情操强加于我们的家庭，用官员和警察控制我们的个人空间。”
In setting off another cultural controversy, Mr. Erdogan risks re-energizing the emotions of his critics that drove the summer’s protests. But, given how divided Turkish society is, he could also galvanize his conservative supporters ahead of elections.
埃尔多安再一次引发文化争议，这可能会重新引燃批评者的情绪，正是这些批评者引领了今夏的抗议活动。考虑到土耳其社会分裂的程度，在大选之前他也可能激发起保守派支持者的热情。
Mr. Erdogan emerged from the protests seemingly as powerful as ever domestically — his religiously conservative base, which makes up nearly half of the electorate, stuck with him — even as Turkey’s image abroad was tarnished. But the protests also set off debate within the upper reaches of the A.K.P. about the party’s direction and the future of Turkish democracy, just as the country heads into an election cycle that begins next year with a vote for municipal governments that is seen as a test of Mr. Erdogan’s grass-roots support.
今夏的抗议活动之后，埃尔多安在国内的势力似乎并没有发生变化——支持他的宗教保守派阵营仍然坚定地支持他，这些人在选民中占了将近一半——尽管土耳其的国际形象受到了损害。但是这些抗议也在正发党内的高层当中，引发了关于党的走向，以及土耳其民主的未来的讨论。与此同时，土耳其明年即将进入选举周期，首先举行的将是地方政府选举，这被认为是埃尔多安在普通民众中支持率的检验。
Recent interviews with party officials, Western diplomats and outside experts with close ties to the government, all of whom spoke anonymously to discuss internal party deliberations, suggest sharp divides within the party. There is a decided split between those who support Mr. Erdogan unconditionally and those who are more moderate, who line up behind the more conciliatory president, Abdullah Gul, and share some of the concerns voiced by the protesters.
最近对正发党官员、西方外交官，以及与政府关系密切的外部专家的采访显示，正发党内存在尖锐的分歧。由于谈到了该党内部的讨论，上述人士都要求匿名。无条件支持埃尔多安的人士和较为温和的人士之间，已经出现明显的裂痕。后者追随的是更倾向于和解的总统阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)，对抗议者表达的忧虑有一定的认同。
Those concerns have been highlighted by the furor over the prime minister’s comments on coed dormitories and his style. Another A.K.P. constituency, followers of the Islamic preacher Fethullah Gulen, is said to be deeply ambivalent about backing Mr. Erdogan in future elections.
埃尔多安涉及男女混合宿舍的言论，以及他的执政风格所引发的轩然大波，正体现出了这些忧虑。据说，正发党的另一批支持者，即伊斯兰教神职人员费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的追随者，在未来大选中是否会支持埃尔多安，仍然远无定论。
The protests last summer were set off by plans to raze Gezi Park, one of the last green spaces in central Istanbul, for a mall. They grew into a broader rebuke of the government, one consequence of which is that an effort pushed by Mr. Erdogan to broaden the powers of the presidency seems impossible, at least for now.
今年夏天抗议活动的导火索是政府计划为了修建商场而拆毁盖齐公园(Gezi Park)。盖齐公园是伊斯坦布尔市中心仅存的几片绿地之一。抗议活动发展成了针对政府的更大范围的谴责，这引发的一个后果是，埃尔多安推动的一项扩大总统权力的计划，至少从目前来看，似乎不可能实现了。