ANKARA, Turkey — Having spent most of his youth as a drug addict in one of the poorest neighborhoods of Turkey’s capital, Can did not think he had much to lose when he was smuggled into Syria with 10 of his childhood friends to join the world’s most extreme jihadist group.
土耳其安卡拉——江(Can)在自己青年时代的大部分时间都染着毒瘾，居住的地点是土耳其首都最贫困的社区之一。所以在与10个儿时玩伴偷渡到叙利亚、加入全世界最极端的圣战团体时，他并不觉得自己会有什么损失。
After 15 days at a training camp in the Syrian city of Raqqa, the de facto headquarters of the group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the 27-year-old Can was assigned to a fighting unit. He said he shot two men and participated in a public execution. It was only after he buried a man alive that he was told he had become a full ISIS fighter.
叙利亚城市拉卡(Raqqa)是伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）事实上的总部所在地。在拉卡的一所训练营里待了15天之后，27岁的江被指派到了一个战斗单位。他说他射杀了两人，还参加了一次公开处决。直到自己活埋了一个人之后，他才被告知自己成为了正式的ISIS战士。
“When you fight over there, it’s like being in a trance,” said Can, who asked to be referred to only by his middle name for fear of reprisal. “Everyone shouts, ‘God is the greatest,’ which gives you divine strength to kill the enemy without being fazed by blood or splattered guts,” he said.
“在那里作战时，就像是被催眠了，”江说。“所有人都在喊‘真主至大’，这能给你有如神助的力量，在杀敌时看到鲜血和横飞的人体器官也保持心情平静。”为了避免受到报复，他要求只公开自己的中间名。
Hundreds of foreign fighters, including some from Europe and the United States, have joined the ranks of ISIS in its self-proclaimed caliphate that sweeps over vast territories of Iraq and Syria. But one of the biggest source of recruits is neighboring Turkey, a NATO member with an undercurrent of Islamist discontent.
ISIS自己宣称的哈里发国已经在伊拉克和叙利亚夺取了广阔的领土，有数千名外国作战人员，包括来自欧洲和美国的人员也加入了ISIS的队伍。但招募战斗人员最主要的一个来源是邻近的土耳其，这个北约(NATO)成员国里的伊斯兰派当中，正涌动着一股不安定的暗流。
As many as 1,000 Turks have joined ISIS, according to Turkish news media reports and government officials here. Recruits cite the group’s ideological appeal to disaffected youths as well as the money it pays fighters from its flush coffers. The C.I.A. estimated last week that the group had from 20,000 to 31,500 fighters in Iraq and Syria.
土耳其新闻媒体及这里的政府官员透露，已经有多达一千名土耳其人加入了ISIS。招募的作战人员认为，原因在于该团体对心存不满的年轻人有意识形态吸引力，另外，这个团体财力雄厚，可以向作战人员发放薪饷。美国中央情报局(CIA)估计，该团体在伊拉克和叙利亚有2万至3.15万名作战人员。
The United States has put heavy pressure on Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to better police Turkey’s 560-mile-long border with Syria. Washington wants Turkey to stanch the flow of foreign fighters and to stop ISIS from exporting the oil it produces on territory it holds in Syria and Iraq.
美国已向土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)施加压力，要求对土耳其与叙利亚之间长达560英里（约900公里）的边境加强管控。华盛顿希望土耳其遏止外国作战人员的流动，并阻止ISIS出口其在叙利亚和伊拉克占据的土地上开采的石油。
So far, Mr. Erdogan has resisted pleas to take aggressive steps against the group, citing the fate of 49 Turkish hostages ISIS has held since militants took over Iraq’s second-largest city, Mosul, in June. Turkey declined to sign a communiqué last Thursday that committed a number of regional states to take “appropriate” new measures to counter ISIS, frustrating American officials.
到目前为止，埃尔多安对于采取强硬措施的呼吁一直有所抗拒，理由是ISIS在今年6月夺取伊拉克第二大城市摩苏尔之后，一直扣留着49名土耳其人质。上周四，几个周边国家发表联合公报，承诺会采取“适当”的新举措对抗ISIS，但土耳其拒绝在公报上签字，令美国官员感到不满。
For years, Turkey has striven to set an example of Islamic democracy in the Middle East through its “zero problems with neighbors” prescription, the guiding principle of Ahmet Davutoglu, who recently became Turkey’s prime minister after serving for years as foreign minister. But miscalculations have left the country isolated and vulnerable in a region now plagued by war.
多年来，土耳其一直在奉行“与邻国之间零问题”的政策，并期望以此努力为中东树立一个伊斯兰民主国家的典范。这一政策是艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)的指导方针，多年担任外长的达武特奥卢最近刚刚成为土耳其总理。然而种种误判让土耳其在这个受到战争困扰的地区中陷于孤立，容易受到冲击。
Hacibayram, a ramshackle neighborhood in the heart of Ankara’s tourist district, has morphed into an ISIS recruitment hub over the past year. Locals say up to 100 residents have gone to fight for the group in Syria.
哈吉巴伊拉姆(Hacibayram)是一个破落的社区，位于安卡拉游人如织的中心地带。在过去一年里，这里已经变成了ISIS招募作战人员的中心，当地人表示，已经有多达100名居民前往叙利亚为该组织作战。
“It began when a stranger with a long, coarse beard started showing up in the neighborhood,” recalled Arif Akbas, the neighborhood’s elected headman of 30 years, who oversees local affairs. “The next thing we knew, all the drug addicts started going to the mosque.”
“一个蓄着蓬乱的大胡子的陌生人出现在这个社区的时候，这种事情就开始了，”阿里夫·阿克巴希(Arif Akbas)回忆道。“紧接着，所有吸毒的人就都开始去清真寺了。”阿克巴希通过选举成为了社区的负责人，过去30年一直管理当地事务。
One of the first men to join ISIS from the neighborhood was Ozguzhan Gozlemcioglu, known to his ISIS counterparts as Muhammad Salef. In three years, he has risen to the status of a regional commander in Raqqa, and locals say he frequently travels in and out of Ankara, each time making sure to take back new recruits with him.
从这个社区加入ISIS的最早一批人里就包括奥古斯罕·格兹雷姆吉奥卢(Ozguzhan Gozlemcioglu)，他在ISIS中的同伴将他称为穆罕默德·萨勒夫(Muhammad Salef)。经过三年时间，他已经成为拉卡的一名地方指挥官。本地人表示，他经常进出安卡拉，而且每次都一定会招募新人带回去。
Playing in the rubble of a demolished building on a recent hot day here, two young boys staged a fight with toy guns.
最近一个炎热的日子，两个小男孩拿着玩具枪，在一座已经拆除的建筑废墟当中玩打仗。
When a young Syrian girl walked past them, they pounced on her, knocking her to the floor and pushing their toy rifles against her head. “I’m going to kill you, whore,” one of the boys shouted before launching into sound effects that imitated a machine gun.
一名叙利亚小女孩走过他们身旁时，他们扑过去，把她撞倒在地，将玩具步枪对准她的脑袋。其中一个男孩高呼道，“我要杀了你，婊子。”接着又在口中模仿机枪射击的声响。
The other boy quickly lost interest and walked away. “Toys are so boring,” he said. “I have real guns upstairs.”
另外一个男孩很快就失去了兴趣，走到了一边。“玩具枪太无聊了，”他说。“我在楼上有真枪。”
The boy’s father, who owns a nearby market, said he fully supported ISIS’s vision for Islamic governance and hoped to send the boy and his other sons to Raqqa when they are older.
这个男孩的父亲拥有附近的一座市场，为了保护自己的身份，他只肯透露自己名字的首字母缩写TC。他说自己完全支持ISIS以伊斯兰律法施政的主张，并且希望到孩子们年龄再大一点时，把这名男孩以及另外几个儿子送到拉卡。
“The diluted form of Islam practiced in Turkey is an insult to the religion,” he said giving only his initials, T.C., to protect his identity. “In the Islamic State you lead a life of discipline as dictated by God, and then you are rewarded. Children there have parks and swimming pools. Here, my children play in the dirt.”
“土耳其所信奉的经过稀释的伊斯兰教，是对这种宗教的侮辱，”TC说。“在伊斯兰国，你要是遵从神的旨意，过克己自律的生活，就能得到回报。在那里，孩子们有公园，有游泳池。在这里，我的孩子们只能在沙土中玩耍。”
But when Can returned from Raqqa after three months with two of the original 10 friends he had left with, he was full of regret.
然而江在三个月之后从拉卡回来时，心里充满了悔恨。当初与他一起去叙利亚的十个朋友，有两人和他一起回来了。
“ISIS is brutal,” he said. “They interpret the Quran for their own gains. God never ordered Muslims to kill Muslims.”
“ISIS很残暴，”他说。“他们对《古兰经》的解读是为了满足自己的利益，真主从来没有命令穆斯林去杀害穆斯林。”
Still, he said many were drawn to the group for financial reasons, as it appealed to disadvantaged youth in less prosperous parts of Turkey. “When you fight, they offer $150 a day. Then everything else is free,” he said. “Even the shopkeepers give you free products out of fear.”
不过，他说有许多人被吸引加入该组织是因为经济原因，这对土耳其欠发达地区家境贫困的年轻人来说很有吸引力。“去打仗的时候，他们每天发150美元。然后别的所有东西都是免费的，”他说。“就连商店的店主都会出于恐惧，免费给你东西。”
On a recent afternoon in Ankara, Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Davutoglu came to pray at the historic Haci Bayram Veli Mosque, just over 100 yards away from an underground mosque used by a radical Salafi sect known to oversee ISIS recruits.
最近一天下午在安卡拉，埃尔多安和达武特奥卢前往历史悠久的哈吉·巴伊拉姆·韦利清真寺(Haci Bayram Veli Mosque)做礼拜。这里距离萨拉菲派(Salafi)极端分子使用的一所地下清真寺只有大约100多米。据了解，该派系管理着ISIS的受招募人员。
When news of their visit reached the neighborhood, several residents scurried down the steep hill hoping to catch an opportunity to raise the issue.
他们来访的消息传到这个社区时，几名居民匆忙跑下山坡，希望能找到机会提出这个问题。