ISTANBUL — A large blast ripped through the heart of Ankara, Turkey's capital, Sunday, killing at least 34 people and injuring 125, government officials said.
伊斯坦布尔——周日，土耳其首都安卡拉的心脏地带发生大爆炸。政府官员称，至少有34人在爆炸中遇难，125人受伤。
The explosion occurred in Kizilay Square, near a central bus station, a park and several government ministries. Television footage showed several vehicles on fire.
爆炸发生在克孜拉伊广场(Kizilay Square)，靠近一个中央公共汽车站、一座公园和多个政府部门。电视画面显示，有几辆车起火燃烧。
The Ankara governor's office said the explosion was believed to have been caused by a car bomb. On Friday, the U.S. Embassy there had warned Americans of a potential terrorist plot to attack Turkish government buildings and residences in Ankara.
安卡拉市长办公室称，这起爆炸据信是由汽车炸弹引起的。上周五，美国大使馆曾警告本国公民，安卡拉有可能发生针对土耳其政府建筑物和住宅区的恐怖袭击。
Last month, a bombing on a military convoy in Ankara killed 28 people. A Turkish-based militant group, the Kurdistan Freedom Falcons, claimed responsibility for that attack, identifying the bomber as a 26-year-old Turkish citizen. The Turkish government blamed a Syrian Kurdish militia that is supported by the United States in the fight against the Islamic State in Syria.
上个月，安卡拉军方车队遭受炸弹袭击，导致28人身亡。位于土耳其的激进组织“库尔德斯坦自由之鹰”(Kurdistan Freedom Falcons)声称对该事件负责，并表示袭击者是一名26岁的土耳其公民。土耳其政府将其归咎于叙利亚的一个库尔德民兵组织。在对抗叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的战斗中，该民兵组织获得了美国的支持。
Turkey has been shelling positions in northern Syria held by Kurdish militias that it deems to be extensions of the Kurdistan Workers' Party. The party, known as the PKK, has been fighting for autonomy for over three decades.
土耳其在持续炮轰叙利亚北部的一些库尔德民兵据点。在其眼中，这些民兵组织是库尔德工人党(Kurdistan Workers' Party)的分支。库尔德工人党简称PKK，逾三十年来一直在争取自治。
Shortly after the explosion Sunday, the Turkish broadcasting authorities issued a media ban on information and images about the attack. News channels broadcasting live from the scene quickly switched to their studios, where analysts were interviewed about broader security issues in Turkey.
周日的爆炸发生后不久，土耳其传播部门颁发禁令，不准媒体发布袭击的信息和图像。进行现场直播的新闻频道迅速切换到演播室内，在那里对分析人士进行采访，就土耳其境内的安全问题进行更宽泛的讨论。
Social media users complained that Twitter and Facebook were functioning slowly after the attack, and that some service providers had blocked them.
有社交媒体用户抱怨，袭击事件发生后，访问Twitter和Facebook的速度变慢了，还有一些服务提供商封锁了它们。
Photographs of the blast area Sunday showed several buses and vehicles on fire, as well as shattered glass from nearby shop windows.
周日爆炸受损区域的照片显示，一些公交车和小汽车起火燃烧，附近商店橱窗的玻璃被震碎。
“It looks and sounds larger than the attack last month,” said Mehmet Arabaci, an Ankara resident who took photographs of the scene after hearing the explosion.
“看起来比上个月那次规模更大一些，爆炸声也更响，”安卡拉居民穆罕默德·阿拉巴西(Mehmet Arabaci)说。听到爆炸声后，他到现场拍摄了一些照片。