WASHINGTON — Turkey will allow American and coalition troops to use its bases, including a key installation within 100 miles of the Syrian border, for operations against Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq, Defense Department officials said Sunday.
华盛顿——国防部(Defense Department)官员周日表示，土耳其将允许美国和联军的部队在对叙利亚和伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子采取行动时，使用该国的基地，其中包括一处距叙利亚边境不到100英里（约合160公里）的关键设施。
Obama administration officials have urged the Turkish government to play a more significant role in fighting the extremists who have seized large parts of Iraq and Syria and driven refugees into Turkey.
奥巴马政府的官员已经发出呼吁，希望土耳其政府在打击伊斯兰国极端分子上扮演更重要的角色。那些极端分子已占领了伊拉克和叙利亚的大片地区，迫使难民逃往土耳其。
An American military team will arrive in Turkey this week to work out details of the training program and discuss what kind of missions can be flown from the Turkish bases, administration officials said.
奥巴马政府的官员称，美国军方的一个团队将于本周抵达土耳其，以制定出训练计划的细节，并就从土耳其的基地起飞能执行什么样的任务展开讨论。
The basing and training agreement follows two days of talks in Ankara, the Turkish capital, between the authorities there and John R. Allen, the retired American general who is coordinating the coalition’s response to the Islamic State. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who has been traveling in South America, has said the United States has sought access to Turkish air bases, including one at Incirlik in southern Turkey.
达成这一基地使用和训练协议前，土耳其当局与美国退役上将约翰·R·艾伦(John R. Allen)在土耳其首都安卡拉进行了两天的会谈。艾伦正在协调联盟对伊斯兰国的应对。一直在南非访问的国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)表示，美国已在寻求对土耳其空军基地的使用权，包括土耳其南部英基里克的一处基地。
The initial breakthrough with Turkey came as three suicide bombers attacked a government center in Diyala Province, northeast of Baghdad, killing 60 people and wounding more than 120, officials said. Many of the victims were people who had sought refuge in the district, Qara Taba, after fleeing violence elsewhere in the country, officials said. They had gathered at the government center to collect subsidies for displaced people.
官员称，与土耳其方面的会谈取得最早的突破时，正值巴格达东北部的迪亚拉省一处政府中心遭到三名自杀式炸弹袭击者的攻击。袭击造成60人死亡，超过120人受伤。官员称，其中许多受害者是逃离了伊拉克其他地区的暴力后，去盖拉塔巴区寻求庇护的人。他们聚集在那处政府中心，是为了领取向流离失所者发放的补贴。
Earlier in the day, the police chief of Anbar Province in western Iraq was killed when two bombs planted along a rural road were detonated as his convoy drove by, officials said. Anbar officials said the death of the chief, Maj. Gen. Ahmed Saddag, was a setback to the efforts of the Iraqi security forces to wrest full control of the province from the jihadist insurgency called the Islamic State.
官员称，当天早些时候，伊拉克西部安巴尔省警务负责人的车队经过乡间的一条公路时，沿路安放的两枚炸弹被引爆，该负责人身亡。安巴尔的官员称，警务负责人艾哈迈德· 塞达杰少将(Ahmed Saddag)的死亡，是伊拉克安全部队展开的各项行动的一个挫折。这些行动是为了从名为伊斯兰国的圣战分子手中夺回对该省的全面控制。
Iraqi forces have been struggling to push the Islamic State fighters from territory they captured this year. The group, also known as ISIS or ISIL, first made inroads in Iraq at the beginning of the year when it swept from Syria into Anbar Province and quickly seized control of territory throughout the Euphrates River valley, from the Syrian border to the rural western suburbs of the Baghdad area.
为了将伊斯兰国的武装分子赶出他们今年夺取的地区，伊拉克军队已经费尽周折。又名ISIS或ISIL的该组织首次入侵伊拉克是在今年年初。当时，该组织从叙利亚蔓延至安巴尔省，并迅速夺取了从叙利亚边境、到巴格达地区西部农村郊区的整个幼发拉底河谷的控制权。
In June, another wave of fighters poured across the Syrian border into northern Iraq, quickly overwhelming Iraqi security forces in the city of Mosul. They have since expanded their control across areas of northern and central Iraq.
6月，另一波武装分子从叙利亚边境涌入伊拉克北部，迅速打败了摩苏尔市的伊拉克安全部队。从那以后，他们已将自己的控制区扩大到了伊拉克北部和中部地区。
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, President Obama’s top military adviser, said Sunday that no circumstances had yet arisen that warranted recommending the limited use of American ground troops as advisers in combat conditions. But, during an interview on ABC’s “This Week,” he added, “There will be circumstances when the answer to that question will likely be yes.”
奥巴马总统的最高军事顾问马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E. Dempsey)周日表示，目前的时局尚不足以让他做出建议，让美国地面部队以顾问身份有限地投入战斗。但在接受ABC《本周》(This Week)的采访时，他又说，“在一定情形下，对这个问题的回答可能会是肯定的。”
He went on to suggest that a counterattack to retake Mosul in the north might require such “a different kind of advising and assisting.”
他接着表示，为夺回北部的摩苏尔而进行反攻，可能需要“采取不同的顾问和协助方式”。
The three-pronged attack Sunday in Qara Taba, northeast of Baquba near the Iranian border, targeted the mayor’s office, a building used by the internal security service of the Kurdistan regional government and an office of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, one of the main Kurdish political parties, according to Rudaw, a Kurdish news agency.
盖拉塔巴位于巴格达的东北部，近伊朗边境。据库尔德语通讯社Rudaw称，那里周日从三个方向发起的袭击的目标，是市长办公室、库尔德斯坦地区政府的内部安全机构使用的一栋大楼以及库尔德主要政党之一库尔德斯坦爱国联盟(Patriotic Union of Kurdistan)的一处办公室。