Istanbul — “Nations do behave wisely once they have exhausted all other alternatives,” the Israeli diplomat Abba Eban once quipped. The Turkish government finally seems to be doing so in Kobani, the northern Syrian city besieged by the Islamic State — after trying everything else. Turkey is now helping Kobani’s defenders after standing, literally, on the sidelines for weeks as a battle raged just across the border.
伊斯坦布尔——“当用尽了所有其他的替代方案时，一个国家就会做出明智之举，”以色列外交官阿巴·埃班(Abba Eban)曾打趣说。在被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)包围的叙利亚北部城市科巴尼这个问题上，土耳其政府似乎终于要做出明智之举了——在进行了其他一切尝试之后。过去数周里，土耳其确实就是站在一旁，观望边境线另一边不远处发生的激战，现在，该国则正在为科巴尼的守军提供援助。
As Kobani was encircled by Islamic State forces, despite air strikes by the United States and its allies, Turkey, a NATO ally, had tanks positioned only a few miles away. Why, many wondered, did Turkey do nothing to help the secular Kurdish fighters defend themselves against brutal religious fanatics?
尽管美国及其盟国对伊斯兰国的武装力量进行了空袭，科巴尼还是被包围了；而北约盟友土耳其的坦克，就部署在几英里外。因此，很多人都想知道，土耳其为什么袖手旁观，没有帮助世俗派库尔德战士在自卫战中对抗残酷的宗教狂热分子？
Things looked more complicated from Turkey’s perspective though. Kobani’s defense is spearheaded by the Democratic Union Party, or P.Y.D., a Syrian Kurdish party that shares the ideology of the Kurdistan Workers Party, or P.K.K., a group that both Turkey and the United States define as a terrorist organization. The organization’s 30-year war with Turkey has claimed 40,000 lives.
不过，从土耳其的角度来看，事情更加复杂一些。科巴尼的防守是由民主联盟党（Democratic Union Party，简称PYD）负责的，PYD是个叙利亚库尔德党派，和库尔德工人党（Kurdistan Workers Party，简称PKK）具有同样的意识形态，而土耳其和美国都把PKK定性为恐怖组织。它与土耳其之间的战斗持续了30年，有4万人因此丧生。
Therefore, for many Turks, the battle was not between heroic Kurdish fighters and bloody terrorists; it was between two different types of terrorists. Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, made this clear when he stated repeatedly that the Islamic State is “the same” as the P.K.K. and P.Y.D.
所以，对于许多土耳其人而言，这场战斗不是发生在英雄的库尔德战士和血腥的恐怖分子之间，而是发生在两种不同类型的恐怖分子之间。土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)对此的态度很明确，他不止一次表示，伊斯兰国和PKK及PYD“没差别”。
It would be unfair to depict Turkey’s stance as categorically “anti-Kurdish.” After all, it is the same Turkey that recently welcomed 180,000 refugees from Kobani, most of them Kurds, in addition to the 1.5 million Syrians who have already found a safe haven in Turkey.
说土耳其不分青红皂白地“反库尔德”是不公平的。毕竟，最近正是土耳其接收了来自科巴尼的18万难民，其中大多数都是库尔德人，此外还有150万叙利亚人已经在土耳其找到了避风港。
Turkey also helped the Iraqi Kurds by secretly giving them weapons to use against the Islamic State, as Massoud Barzani, the president of the Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq, recently declared. When it came to Kobani, Turkey’s problem was not that the city was dominated by Kurds, but by a specific Kurdish party affiliated with the P.K.K. — Ankara’s longstanding nemesis.
伊拉克的库尔德自治区主席马苏德·巴尔扎尼(Masoud Barzani)最近声称，土耳其还秘密为他们提供武器，帮助他们抵抗伊斯兰国。在科巴尼问题上，土耳其心怀芥蒂的倒不是那里由库尔德人主导，而是与安卡拉的宿敌PKK关系密切的一个库尔德政党在领导这座城市。
Nevertheless, Mr. Erdogan should have been more amenable to helping Kobani’s fighters. After all, it was under his own leadership that the Turkish government initiated a commendable “peace process” with the P.K.K. about two years ago. Since then, guns have been mostly silent and hopes have increased for a permanent resolution of Turkey’s festering Kurdish problem.
不过，埃尔多安理应更加积极地帮助科巴尼战士才对。毕竟，正在是他自己的领导下，土耳其政府两年前与PKK开启了一个值得称道的“和平进程”。自那时起，双方之间就再也没有出现过枪声，人们对永久性地解决土耳其溃烂的库尔德问题，也抱有了更大的希望。
But the process has been sluggish — partly due to the lack of trust on both sides. Mr. Erdogan is acting as if he wants to keep the peace process as a bargaining chip to help achieve his own political goals, such as drafting a new constitution that grants him even more power. Meanwhile, the P.K.K. has repeatedly threatened to renew its armed struggle and is employing small-scale violence, such as arson and vandalism.
但这个进程一直很缓慢——部分原因是双方都对彼此缺少信任。从埃尔多安的一些行动来看，他似乎想把这个和平进程当作筹码，来实现自己的政治目标，比如起草可以赋予他更多权力的新宪法。与此同时，PKK曾多次威胁要重新展开武装斗争，而且还实施了纵火和破坏财产这类小规模暴力行动。
Kobani could have been an opportunity to help overcome these troubles, had the government used more empathetic language and taken the key step of allowing Kurdish fighters from Iraq to pass through Turkey to come to Kobani’s aid a month ago. Instead, the government’s language of indifference and its policy of inaction enraged Turkey’s own Kurds. Some of them organized violent protests, during which some bystanders were killed by protesters simply because they had long beards and looked like Islamists.
如果土耳其政府更多地使用富有同理心的语言，并在一个月前采取关键行动，允许伊拉克库尔德战士途经土耳其，前往科巴尼增援，那么科巴尼问题本来会是一个机会，可以帮助化解这些矛盾。但土耳其政府采用了冷漠的语言和不作为的政策，激怒了本国的库尔德人。其中一些人组织了暴力抗议活动，在此期间，一些路人遭到抗议者杀害，原因只不过是他们蓄有长须，看起来像伊斯兰主义者。
This wanton violence by pro-P.K.K. militants deserves condemnation. At the same time, Turkey’s stance toward Syria’s Kurds needs an overhaul. First, Turkey should remind itself that despite the militancy of the P.K.K., the Kurds are still the best ally for Ankara at a time when both of its southern neighbors, Syria and Iraq, are dissolving in chaos.
亲PPK武装分子这种肆无忌惮的暴力行为当然应该遭到谴责。但与此同时，土耳其也需要改变它对叙利亚库尔德人的立场。首先，土耳其应该提醒自己，尽管PKK火药味十足，但在土耳其南面的邻国叙利亚和伊拉克双双被混乱吞噬之际，库尔德人仍是安卡拉的最佳盟友。
Second, Turkey’s government should also realize that while the brutal regime of Bashar al-Assad may indeed be the core trouble in Syria, the Islamic State is not a mere “symptom” of the Assad regime; it is now a deadly disease in itself, with a growing potential to hurt and destabilize Turkey.
其次，土耳其政府也应该认识到，尽管巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的残暴政权可能确实是叙利亚的核心问题，但伊斯兰国并非只是阿萨德政权的一个“症状”；其本身就是一种致​​命疾病，目前它损害土耳其利益、破坏该国稳定的可能性正在日益增加。
Mr. Erdogan and Turkey’s prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, should also strive to preserve Turkey’s own internal peace by reconciling its tense society, which is now bitterly divided along political, ethnic and sectarian lines. They can do this only by using a language of moderation and empathy, tolerating criticism and peaceful protest, and offering fair and transparent governance.
埃尔多安和总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)也应该努力维护土耳其国内的和谐，目前该国在政治、种族和宗派领域中存在严重分裂，他们需要安抚本国紧张的社会关系。他们只能通过使用温和的、富有同理心的语言，容忍批评和和平抗议，并公平和透明地治理国家，才能维护国内和谐。
Unfortunately though, the government’s response to Turkey’s polarization is to flex its muscles, which is counterproductive. After the recent protests, the government proposed legal reforms that would give it sweeping powers to crack down on dissent.
可惜的是，对于土耳其的两极分化问题，政府采取了简单粗暴的应对方法，结果适得其反。在最近的抗议活动发生后，政府提出要进行法律改革，以便获取广泛的权力，来打击异见者。
If the law passes, it will be easier for the police to wiretap and search suspects, and lawyers will have limited access to the evidence against their clients. The authorities will also be able to seize money and property if they find that “crimes against the government” have been committed. Many fear that these broad definitions could be used to criminalize political opposition.
如果这项法律得到通过，警察窃听和搜查犯罪嫌疑人就会变得更加容易，律师将无法充分接触不利于客户的证据。如果当局发现有人犯有“反政府罪”，就可以收缴其资金和财产。很多人担心，政府会利用这些宽泛的定义，将政治上的反对行动界定为刑事犯罪。
The underlying problem is that the government sees all opposition to its rule as a well-crafted conspiracy to topple it and bring back the much-demonized “old Turkey.” Ironically, the main problem with that “old Turkey” was the same conspiratorial mindset, which resulted in the exact same manifestations of authoritarianism.
根本问题是，政府认为，反对其统治的所有行为都是精心设计的阴谋，目的是推翻自己，重新回到备受妖魔化的“旧土耳其”道路上。讽刺的是，“旧土耳其”的主要问题同样是阴谋论心态，也导致了完全相同的权威主义表现。