ISTANBUL — Turkish authorities moved to widen their purge of perceived opponents Monday by removing thousands of police officers from their posts, part of the crackdown that followed a failed military coup that was aimed at toppling the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
伊斯坦布尔——周一，土耳其当局解除数千名警察的职务，对被视为反对者的人展开进一步清洗。这是当局针对一场失败的军事政变进行的镇压活动的一部分，政变企图推翻总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)领导的政府。
The Interior Ministry fired nearly 9,000 police officers Monday, Turkish officials said. That followed the arrests of 6,000 military personnel and 103 generals and admirals, and the suspensions of nearly 3,000 judges over the weekend.
土耳其官方表示，周一当天，内政部开除了近9000名警察。在这之前的上周末，已有6000名军人和103名高级将领被捕，近3000名法官被停职。
Also Monday, Erdogan extended an order for fighter jets to patrol the airspace over Istanbul and Ankara, and banned military helicopters from taking off in Istanbul.
埃尔多安周一还延长了一项允许战斗机在伊斯坦布尔和安卡拉上空巡逻的命令，并禁止军方的直升机在伊斯坦布尔起飞。
The magnitude of the purges has raised concerns among Turkey’s Western allies that Erdogan is abandoning the rule of law and using the coup attempt as a pretext to cleanse the country’s institutions of his enemies.
清洗的规模引起了土耳其的西方盟友的担忧，认为埃尔多安正在摈弃法治，以此次政变为借口清洗政敌所在机构。
Erdogan pointed the finger at his former ally-turned-rival Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim cleric who has been in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999 and who is known to have a vast following in the police and judiciary.
埃尔多安指责曾是他的盟友，后来变成他的竞争对手的费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)。居伦是一名穆斯林神职人员，自1999年以来一直在宾夕法尼亚州过着自愿的流亡生活。外界认为，他在警界和司法界拥有大量支持者。
Western diplomats said Monday that Turkey’s response to the coup attempt suggested that the government had prepared lists of those they believed to be linked to Gulen’s followers, before the unrest.
西方外交官周一表示，土耳其针对政变采取的措施表明，在动乱发生前，政府就已经准备好了一系列名单，上面列着他们认为和居伦的追随者有关联的人。
A senior Turkish official said that members of the Gulen movement in the military had been under investigation for some time, and that the group had acted out of a sense of emergency when they realized that they might face prosecution.
土耳其的一名高级官员表示，军队中对居伦派系成员的调查已经有一段时间了，在意识到他们可能会被起诉时，该团体紧急决定采取行动。
“There was a list of people who were suspected of conspiring to stage a coup,” the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity in line with government protocol. “And they did attempt a coup even though many people, including myself, treated the claims as a conspiracy theory at the time.”
“有一个疑为密谋发动政变者名单，”这名按照政府规定要求匿名的官员说。“他们的确试图发动政变，尽管那时包括我自己在内的很多人都认为相关说法是一种阴谋论。”
“There was no arrest list,” the official said. “There was a list of people suspected of planning a coup.”
“没有逮捕名单，”这名官员说。“有一个疑为政变策划者的名单。”
The official added, “Some judges were directly linked to the military faction that staged the failed coup — they would have assumed control of government agencies and courts-martial had the coup succeeded.”
这名官员接着表示，“一些法官和军队中发动这场未遂政变的派系有直接联系。如果政变成功，他们会控制政府机构和军事法庭。”