ISTANBUL — Turkish voters delivered a rebuke on Sunday to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as his party lost its majority in Parliament in a historic election that dealt a blow to his ambition to rewrite Turkey’s Constitution and increase his power.
伊斯坦布尔——周日，土耳其选民对总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)发难，让他领导的政党在一场历史性选举中失去了议会多数党的地位，对他修订土耳其宪法从而增加自身权力的夙愿造成了打击。
The election results represented a significant setback to Mr. Erdogan, an Islamist who has steadily increased his power as president, a partly but not solely ceremonial post. After more than a decade as prime minister, Mr. Erdogan has pushed for more control of the judiciary and cracked down on any form of criticism, including prosecutions of those who insult him on social media, but his efforts appeared to have run aground on Sunday.
这个选举结果对埃尔多安来说是一次重大挫折。在土耳其，总统在一定程度上是礼仪性的职位，但并不仅限于此。埃尔多安属于伊斯兰派，在稳步增加自身的权力。他此前担任了十几年的总理，一直力求获得对司法系统更多的控制权，打压各种形式的批评，比如起诉在社交媒体上侮辱他的人。不过，他的种种举措似乎在周日遭遇了挫折。
The election was also a significant victory to the cadre of Kurds, liberals and secular Turks who found their voice of opposition to Mr. Erdogan during sweeping antigovernment protests two years ago.
此次选举对于由库尔德人、自由派及世俗派构成的团体来说是一场重要的胜利。在两年前的规模庞大的反政府抗议活动中，他们发出了反对埃尔多安的声音。
Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, or A.K.P., still won by far the most seats in Parliament, but not a majority, according to preliminary results released Sunday night. The outcome suggested contentious days of jockeying ahead as the party moves to form a coalition government. Already, analysts were raising the possibility Sunday of new elections if a government cannot be formed swiftly. Many Turks were happy to see Mr. Erdogan’s powers curtailed, even though the prospect of a coalition government evokes dark memories of political instability and economic malaise during the 1990s.
周日晚间公布的初步结果显示，埃尔多安领导的正义与发展党（Justice and Development Party，简称AKP）仍然赢得了议会最多的席位，但并没有成为多数党。这个结果意味着，随着各党进行成立联合政府的尝试，未来的日子里会出现激烈的争夺。分析人士在周日已经提出了一种可能性，即如果不能迅速完成组阁任务，或许需要进行新一轮的选举。很多土耳其人乐于看到埃尔多安的权力受限，尽管成立联合政府的可能性唤醒了有关20世纪90年代政治动乱、经济低迷境况的黑暗记忆。
With 99 percent of the votes counted, the A.K.P. had won 41 percent of the vote, according to TRT, a state-run broadcaster, down from nearly 50 percent during the last national election in 2011. The percentage gave it an estimated 258 seats in Turkey’s Parliament, compared with the 327 seats it has now.
据官方媒体土耳其之声(TRT)报道，在目前统计的99%的选票中，AKP赢得了41%的票数，少于2011年的上次全国性选举中赢得的将近50%的选票。这一结果将使AKP获得土耳其议会的大约258个席位，而该党目前拥有327个席位。
“The outcome is an end to Erdogan’s presidential ambitions,” said Soner Cagaptay, an expert on Turkey and a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
研究土耳其问题的专家、华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)研究员索内尔·恰阿普塔伊(Soner Cagaptay)表示，“这个结果给埃尔多安的总统抱负划上了句号。”
Almost immediately, the results raised questions about the political future of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who moved to that position from that of foreign minister last year and was seen as a loyal subordinate of Mr. Erdogan.
这样的选举结果几乎立刻对总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)的政治前途提出了疑问。他去年由外交部长升任总理，被外界视作埃尔多安的忠实追随者。
Speaking Sunday night from a balcony at the party headquarters in Ankara, Mr. Davutoglu struck tones of triumph and optimism, touting his party as the winner because it won the most seats, without mentioning the loss of its majority.
周日夜间，达武特奥卢在该党安卡拉总部的一座露台上用胜利和乐观的口吻发表了讲话。他宣称自己的党派获得的席位最多，所以是胜利者，并未提到AKP已经失去多数党地位。
“The elections once again showed that the A.K. Party is the backbone of Turkey,” he said.
“这次选举再次表明，AKP是土耳其的脊梁，”他说。
Mr. Erdogan, who as president was not on the ballot Sunday, will probably remain Turkey’s dominant political figure even if his powers have been rolled back, given his outsized personality and his still-deep well of support among Turkey’s religious conservatives, who form the backbone of his constituency. But even among those supporters, including ones in Kasimpasa, the Istanbul neighborhood where Mr. Erdogan spent part of his youth, there are signs that his popularity is flagging.
身为总统的埃尔多安并不在周日的选票上。即便他的权力受到限制，由于他鲜明的个性，以及在构成其选民中坚的土耳其宗教保守派中仍然享有的大量支持，他很可能仍然会是土耳其最重要的政治人物。然而，就算是在支持者当中，包括在伊斯坦布尔卡森柏沙一带的支持者那里，都出现了埃尔多安支持率下跌的迹象。卡森柏沙是他度过一段青少年时期的地方。
“A lot of people in Kasimpasa have become disheartened by Erdogan’s aggressive approach in recent weeks,” said Aydin, 77, who gave only his first name because some of his family members are close to Mr. Erdogan. “I voted for the A.K.P. because it has become habit, but I think Erdogan lost votes this week.”
“卡森柏沙的很多人对埃尔多安最近几周的激进手法感到失望，”77岁的艾丁(Aydin)说。因为一些家人与埃尔多安关系密切，所以他只提供了自己名字。“我之所以投给AKP，是因为已经成了习惯，但我认为埃尔多安本周失去了一些选票。”
Turnout was 86 percent for the election, which was seen as a referendum on Mr. Erdogan’s tenure, especially his plan for a presidential system that would have given him more power. Polling had consistently shown that the majority of Turks are opposed to the change.
此次选举的投票率达86%。它被视作对埃尔多安任期的一次公投，尤其针对的是他设想的建立将赋予自己更多权力的总统制的计划。民调结果不断表明，大多数土耳其人反对这种变化。
By law, Mr. Erdogan can call for a new election after 45 days if a coalition is not formed.
按照法律规定，如果未能形成联合政府，埃尔多安将有权决定在45天之后重新选举。
The election turned on the historic performance at the ballot box of Turkey’s Kurdish minority, which aligned with liberals and secular Turks opposed to Mr. Erdogan’s leadership to win almost 13 percent of the vote, passing a 10 percent legal threshold and earning representation in Parliament.
决定了这次选举走向的是土耳其少数族裔库尔德人那具有历史意义的成绩，他们和反对埃尔多安的自由派及土耳其世俗人士结成了联盟，赢得几乎13%的选票，通过了10%的法律门槛，获得了进入议会的机会。
Selahattin Demirtas, 42, a former human rights lawyer who leads the largely Kurdish People’s Democratic Party, told reporters Sunday night: “As of this hour, the debate about the presidency, the debate about dictatorship, is over. Turkey narrowly averted a disaster.”
42岁的前人权律师塞拉哈廷·德米尔塔斯(Selahattin Demirtas)，是主要由库尔德人组成的人民民主党(People’s Democratic Party)的领袖。他周日晚上对记者表示：“到此时为止，有关总统职位及独裁的辩论结束了。土耳其有惊无险地避开了一场灾难。” 
The People’s Democratic Party, known as H.D.P., was able to broaden its base by fielding a slate of candidates that included women, gays and other minorities and appealed to voters whose goal was to curtail Mr. Erdogan’s powers.
通过选派包括女性、同性恋和其他少数族裔在内的候选人，简称HDP的人民民主党得以扩大自己的基础，并吸引了那些以削弱埃尔多安的权力为目的的选民。
“I voted for H.D.P. because it’s the only party that can break up Erdogan’s bid for absolute power,” said Selen Olcay, 47, a fitness instructor who voted in Istanbul’s Sariyer district. “In this election a lot of Turks abandoned their ideological preferences and voted strategically to derail Erdogan’s one-man rule.”
“我投票给HDP是因为它是唯一一个能让埃尔多安掌握绝对权力的努力失败的政党，”47岁的健身教练塞伦·奥尔贾伊(Selen Olcay)说。“在这次选举中，很多土耳其人放弃了意识形态上的偏好，做出了战略性的投票决定，以搅乱埃尔多安的一人专制。” 奥尔贾伊在伊斯坦布尔的萨热耶尔区投出了自己的选票。
The Kurdish party opted to run as a unified slate, rather than field independent candidates as it had in the past. But it was a big risk: either it would reach the 10 percent threshold and enter Parliament, or it would be shut out, and its seats would have gone to the A.K.P.
人民民主党选择作为一个整体参选，而不是像过去那样，派出独立的候选人。但这样做也存在巨大的风险：要么达到10%的门槛限制，进入议会，要么被迫出局，席位流向AKP。
In the city of Diyarbakir, in the Kurdish heartland in the southeast, celebrations broke out as people flooded the streets, dancing and setting off fireworks.
在东南部的库尔德腹地迪亚巴克尔市，民众涌上街头，以跳舞和燃放烟花的形式进行庆祝。
The Republican People’s Party, the main secular opposition party, came in second with 25 percent of the vote, but it was the Kurds whose surge positioned them as kingmakers in the next Parliament. It also highlighted the evolution of the Kurdish movement, from the battlefields of the southeast, where a bloody insurgency raged for nearly 30 years, to the halls of power in Ankara, the capital.
虽然主要的世俗派反对党共和人民党(Republican People's Party)位居第二，获得了25%的选票，但库尔德人所获选票的剧增，让他们得以在下一届议会中左右逢源。这也突显了这个库尔德组织从该国东南部的战场，到首都安卡拉权力中心的演变。在东南部的战场上，一场血腥的反叛运动曾持续近30年。
The diminished power of Mr. Erdogan’s party is likely to rein in Turkey’s ambitions to shape events in the Middle East, an activist policy that has been controversial among political opponents and the public.
埃尔多安所在政党权力遭到削弱，可能会限制土耳其塑造中东格局的雄心。在政敌和民众中，这一激进政策一直颇具争议。
“Turkey’s foreign policy will be less driven by the A.K.P.’s ambitions, which is basically driven by a foreign policy vision to make Turkey a regional player at any cost,” Mr. Cagaptay said, suggesting it had supported various Syrian factions opposing the Assad government and sometimes turned a blind eye to fighters crossing into Syria to join the Islamic State.
“土耳其的外交政策将不像从前那么受到AKP野心的驱使，这种野心本质上源自不惜一切代价让土耳其成为地区大国这一外交政策愿景，”恰阿普塔伊说。他表示，土耳其的外交政策是支持反对阿萨德政府的各叙利亚派系，有时还对越境进入叙利亚并加入伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的武装分子视而不见。
He added: “The outcome of the election will take Turkey’s anti-Assad policy down a notch. The government will not be able to drive its agenda singlehandedly anymore.”
他接着说：“这次选举的结果将让土耳其的反阿萨德政策得到压制。政府将不再能以一己之力推动其议程。”
The election was defined by bitter partisanship, with opponents criticizing Mr. Erdogan for his accumulation of powers, his bashing of the media and his lavish new palace, which Mr. Erdogan justified by saying his previous residence was infested with cockroaches. The campaign was also marred by violence, including a bombing last week at a Kurdish political rally that left two people dead.
这次选举最大的特点是激烈的党派之争，反对派批评埃尔多安聚敛权力、大力打击媒体并修建奢华的新官邸。对于新官邸，埃尔多安辩解称他之前的总统府蟑螂泛滥。此次选举还出现了暴力事件，包括上周在一次库尔德政治集会现场发生的炸弹袭击。袭击造成两人死亡。