ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey and Russia promised Wednesday not to go to war over the downing of a Russian fighter jet, leaving Turkey's still-nervous NATO allies and just about everyone else wondering why the country decided to risk such a serious confrontation.
土耳其安卡拉——土耳其和俄罗斯本周三承诺，不会因为俄罗斯战斗机被击落一事而开战。土耳其的北约盟友仍然很紧张，他们和其他几乎所有人一样感到奇怪：为什么土耳其会冒这么大的对抗风险？
The reply from the Turkish government so far has been consistent: Don't say we didn't warn you.
迄今为止，土耳其政府的口风一直没有变：别说我们没警告你。
Though minor airspace violations are fairly common and usually tolerated, Turkey had repeatedly called in Russia's ambassador to complain about aircraft intrusions and about bombing raids in Syria near the border. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday evening — and a Pentagon spokesman later confirmed — that before a Turkish F-16 shot down the Russian Su-24 jet, Turkish forces had warned the Russian plane 10 times in 5 minutes to steer away.
虽然轻微侵犯领空的事件相当常见，通常都会网开一面，但土耳其曾经多次召见俄罗斯大使，抱怨俄罗斯飞机入侵领空，轰炸土耳其边境附近的叙利亚领土。土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)周二晚上宣称——此事后来得到了五角大楼发言人的证实——就在土耳其的F-16击落俄罗斯Su-24战机之前，土耳其军队曾在5分钟内对俄罗斯飞机发出了10次警告，要求对方离开。
“I personally was expecting something like this, because in the past months there have been so many incidents like that,” Ismail Demir, Turkey's undersecretary of national defense, said in an interview. “Our engagement rules were very clear, and any sovereign nation has a right to defend its airspace.”
“个人来说，我预见到了会有这样的事情发生，因为过去的几个月里，已经出现了太多类似的事，”土耳其国防部副部长伊斯梅尔·德米尔(Ismail Demir)在接受采访时说。“我们的交战规则十分明确，任何一个主权国家都有权保卫自己的领空。”
While that may be true, analysts said Erdogan had several more nuanced reasons to allow Turkish pilots to open fire. These include his frustration with Russia over a range of issues even beyond Syria, the Gordian knot of figuring out what to do with Syria itself and Turkey's strong ethnic ties to the Turkmen villages Russia has been bombing lately in the area of the crash.
尽管这是事实，但一些分析师表示，埃尔多安还有几个微妙的理由允许土耳其飞行员开火。这些理由包括：土耳其在一系列议题上对俄罗斯的不满，其范畴甚至超出了叙利亚；如何解决叙利亚这个大难题；以及俄罗斯最近一直在战机坠毁地带对与土耳其有紧密族群关系的土库曼村落进行轰炸。
Turkey has been quietly seething ever since Russia began military operations against Syrian rebels two months ago, wrecking Ankara's policy of ousting the government of President Bashar Assad. The Turks were forced to downgrade their ambitions from the ouster of Assad to simply maintaining a seat at the negotiating table when the time comes, said Soner Cagaptay, a Turkish analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a nonpartisan research group.
自从俄罗斯在两个月前开始对叙利亚反对派采取军事行动，破坏了安卡拉主张的推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)领导的政府这一计划之后，土耳其就一直怒火中烧。无党派色彩的研究机构华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)的土耳其问题分析师索内尔·恰阿普塔伊(Soner Cagaptay)表示，土耳其已经被迫将自己的宏伟计划从推翻阿萨德降格为在机会来临时在谈判桌上占有一席之地。
“That would require Turkey-backed rebels to be present in Syria, and I think Turkey was alarmed that Russia's bombing of positions held by Turkey-backed rebels in northern Syria was hurting their positions and therefore Turkey's future stakes in Syria,” Cagaptay said. “So this is also an aggressive Turkey posture in the Syrian civil war to prevent the defeat of Turkey-backed rebels so they can hold onto territory and have a say in the future of Syria.”
“这就需要土耳其支持的反对派能继续坚守在叙利亚，而我认为，土耳其担心，俄罗斯对土耳其支持的反对派在叙利亚北部的地盘进行轰炸，正在动摇他们的领地，进而会影响土耳其未来在叙利亚的输赢，”恰阿普塔伊说。“这就是为什么土耳其会在叙利亚内战中采取这样的激进立场，目的是防止土耳其支持的反对派失败，让他们能保住自己的地盘，这样土耳其才能对叙利亚的未来有发言权。”
But the fate of the particular rebels the Russians were bombing in the mountainous Bayirbucak area where the plane was shot down is more than just a policy matter to the Turks. Erdogan particularly emphasized the ethnic tie in a speech Tuesday evening, saying, “We strongly condemn attacks focusing on areas inhabited by Bayirbucak Turkmen — we have our relatives, our kin there.”
不过，对土耳其人来说，在多山的巴亚布查克(Bayirbucak)地区——即俄罗斯战机被击落的地方——遭到俄罗斯轰炸的那些特定反对派的命运，可不仅仅是个政策问题。周二晚上发表讲话时，埃尔多安特别强调了二者的族群关系，“我们强烈谴责对巴亚布查克区域的土库曼人聚居地进行的轰炸，那里住着的是我们的亲戚，我们的族人。”
The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, said as much Wednesday while dismissing Russia's explanation that it was fighting a common enemy, the Islamic State. “No one,” he said, “can legitimize attacks on Turkmens in Syria using the pretext of fighting the Islamic State.”
土耳其总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)周三也作出了类似表态，断然拒绝了俄罗斯方面对此事的解释，即它是在打击双方共同的敌人伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。达武特奥卢说，“任何人都不能以对抗伊斯兰国为借口，将对叙利亚境内的土库曼人的攻击合理化。”
The bombing was creating political problems for Erdogan, Cagaptay said. “In the days leading up to the incident, many newspapers, especially the pro-government publications, were running headlines highlighting the suffering of the Turkmens, who are closely related to Anatolian Turks,” he said. “I think the government felt that, in terms of domestic politics, it had to do something to ease some of this pressure that had resulted from the Russian bombardment against Turkmens in northern Syria.”
恰阿普塔伊表示，俄罗斯的轰炸给埃尔多安带来了一些政治难题。“在事件发生前几天，很多报纸，尤其是支持政府的出版物，都在突出报道与土耳其安纳托利亚人关系密切的土库曼人遭受的苦难，”他说。“我认为，就国内政治而言，土耳其政府肯定觉得自己必须做点什么，以缓解这种因俄罗斯轰炸叙利亚北部的土库曼人而产生的压力。”
Russia's bombing of Turkmen villages was to be the principal issue Turkey raised with Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in talks that had been set for Wednesday but were canceled after the shooting down of the plane.
俄罗斯轰炸土库曼村庄一事，原本是定于周三举行的会谈中土耳其会向俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)提起的首要议题。但是俄罗斯战机被击落后，会谈计划取消了。
Erdogan's emphasis on helping the Turkmens has another important political dimension in Turkey. Erdogan's political party emphasized Turkish ethnic identity and Sunni Muslim faith in the campaign leading up to critical elections on Nov. 1, as it competed with one rival party heavily composed of Turkey's Kurdish minority and another committed to preserving Turkey's status as a secular society and state.
在土耳其，埃尔多安对帮助土库曼人的重视，还有另一重政治含义。在11月1日进行关键的议会选举之前开展的竞选活动中，埃尔多安领导的政党强调了突厥民族身份认同和逊尼派穆斯林信仰，它的竞争对手一个是主要由土耳其库尔德少数民族组成的政党，另一个则致力于保存土耳其现有的世俗社会和国家状态。
Erdogan managed an important victory in that election, preserving his chances of winning legislative approval to change the constitution and turn the country's parliamentary system into a presidential one.
埃尔多安在那场选举中取得了重大的胜利，这让他继续保有获得立法支持以更改宪法的机会，有望将土耳其的议会制变成总统制。
With President Vladimir Putin of Russia saying things about the jet's downing like, “We will never tolerate such crimes like the one committed today” and warning of “serious consequences,” the biggest question perhaps is what comes next.
就战机被击落一事，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)做出了诸如“我们永远不会容忍今天发生的这种罪行”的言论，还警告会有“严重后果”，目前最大的疑问恐怕就是接下来会如何。