ISTANBUL — Turks have always loved a good soap opera. Years ago the fixation was “Dallas,” and Turks of a certain age still refer to a woman who drinks too much as Sue Ellen, the boozy character on that show. More recently, the Turkish drama “The Magnificent Century,” about palace intrigue and romance in an Ottoman sultan’s harem, became an obsession here and in the Middle East.
伊斯坦布尔——土耳其人一直对好看的肥皂剧钟爱有加。多年前，他们迷恋的是《朱门恩怨》(Dallas)。一定年纪的土耳其人提起豪饮的女人还会叫她苏·艾伦(Sue Ellen)，也就是那部剧里的酗酒角色。最近一段时间，土耳其剧情片《辉煌世纪》(The Magnificent Century)让本国和中东地区的民众为之痴迷。这部剧讲述的是奥斯曼苏丹后宫的阴谋和爱情。
Currently, though, the show to watch is Turkey’s own political crisis, set off by a corruption scandal that has played out like a serial drama through the steady flow of leaked telephone conversations. The most sensational one was released Monday night, an apparently wiretapped conversation in which Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, worried about an investigation closing in, is heard telling his son to get tens of millions of dollars out of the house.
不过，当下正在上演的必看剧目是土耳其自身的政治危机，揭开大幕的是一起腐败丑闻。一段段通话录音持续泄露出来，就像在上演一部系列大片。最为耸动的一段于本周一晚间流出。它似乎是一通遭到窃听的对话，其中，担心调查日益接近自己的总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)告诉儿子，把数千万美元的现金从家里弄走。
Mr. Erdogan’s office has dismissed this latest bombshell disclosure as a fabrication. But it has inevitably heightened the sense of crisis that has enveloped Turkey since the corruption scandal burst into public view in mid-December with a series of dawn raids on the homes and offices of associates of Mr. Erdogan.
埃尔多安的办公室驳斥此番最新的爆炸性揭露纯属捏造。然而，它不可避免地提升了自这起腐败丑闻去年12月中闯入公众视线以来形成的那种笼罩全国的危机感。当时，埃尔多安的多名亲信的住宅和办公室在黎明时分遭到突击搜查。
The crisis has damaged Turkey’s already troubled economy. The currency tumbled again on Tuesday while opposition lawmakers called — and not for the first time — for the government to step down, with one official saying Mr. Erdogan should either resign or flee the country “by helicopter.”
这场危机进一步打击了土耳其业已陷入困境的经济。周二，土耳其货币再遭重创；反对党议员则又一次呼吁政府下台；一名官员宣称，埃尔多安应当要么辞职，要么“坐上直升机”逃去国外。
For many Turks, the disclosures represented just the latest episode of a continuing, and opaque, national obsession, one that played out Monday night in predictable fashion. Social media went into overdrive — along with government censors, apparently, as the original leak suddenly became unavailable to many Internet users here — while the mainstream Turkish news media stayed largely silent.
在大批土耳其人看来，此番披露代表的不过是一种没完没了的含混不清的全民执念里最新的篇章，并在周一晚间以大家预料之中的方式曝发出来而已。社交媒体加速运转起来，政府审查似乎也开足了马力，因为本土的很多网民突然听不了原始的泄露录音，而土耳其主流媒体基本上沉默以对。
Mr. Erdogan did not stay silent, though. His office quickly released a statement saying, “Phone recordings published on the Internet that are alleged to be between Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his son are a product of an immoral montage that is completely false.”
不过，埃尔多安却没有沉默。总理办公室迅速发表声明称，“网上公布的录音，据传是总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安与其子的通话记录，实属全盘捏造，是道德败坏的蒙太奇产物。”
The statement promised that legal action would be taken. “Those who framed this dirty plot against the prime minister of the Turkish Republic will be held responsible within the law,” it said. Adding to the suspense, Mr. Erdogan went on to hold a late-night meeting with his spy chief and his interior minister.
声明中还发誓要采取法律行动。“阴谋将脏水泼到土耳其共和国总理身上的那些人，将要负起法律责任，”文中称。当天深夜，埃尔多安还会见了情报主管和内政部长，从而进一步增加了悬念。
The Turkish public was left to wonder what would come next, given the aggressive steps the government had already taken to contain the crisis. So far Ankara has purged thousands of police officers and hundreds of prosecutors and passed new laws permitting censorship of the Internet and increasing government control over the judiciary — both of which have attracted widespread condemnation abroad.
鉴于政府为了控制事态已采取了诸多激进措施，土耳其民众都在思考下一步的发展是什么。截至目前，安卡拉将数千名警察和数百名检察官扫地出门，还通过了新法规，允许对互联网进行审查，并增加了政府对司法系统的控制权。这两项措施都在国外招致了广泛谴责。
The corruption inquest represents the greatest challenge to Mr. Erdogan’s power in more than a decade. While it has been cast by the government as a conspiracy mounted by followers of the Muslim preacher Fethullah Gulen, who lives in exile in Pennsylvania, Mr. Gulen himself has strongly denied any involvement.
此次的腐败调查是埃尔多安掌权十多年来面临的最大挑战。虽然政府一直将其描绘为穆斯林神职人员费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的追随者发起的阴谋，但目前客居在美国宾夕法尼亚州的居伦，断然否认自己与此事有任何关联。
However, most analysts say his adherents are entrenched within the Turkish state, where they are in a position to do a great deal of damage if they so choose. The crisis actually stems, many say, from a fallout between Mr. Gulen and Mr. Erdogan, who were once allies in the current Islamist governing coalition.
然而，多数分析人士认为，他的信徒在土耳其政权中根基很深。这些人位高权重，如果愿意，有能力造成巨大的破坏。不少人表示，这场危机实质上源于居伦与埃尔多安的决裂。在目前的伊斯兰派执政联盟中，两人曾是盟友。
Now that they are warring, many Turks say they are caught in the middle of a power struggle between two Islamist opponents.
两人之间正在激烈交锋，而许多土耳其民众表示，他们被伊斯兰派两大敌对方的权力斗争夹在了中间。
“There is no way of knowing whether the tapes are real or fake,” said Ince Unaldi, who works in a women’s clothing boutique in the affluent Etiler district of Istanbul, after listening to the latest leak. “We are being dragged into a war of two very dark forces.”
听过最新的泄露录音后，在伊斯坦布尔富裕的艾提乐区的一家女装精品店工作的因杰·乌纳尔迪(Ince Unaldi)说，“根本没法分辨这些录音是真是假。我们被拖进了两股非常黑暗的势力之间的战争。”
Everyone, it seems, is waiting for compromising sex tapes to emerge, a tawdry phenomenon with a history in Turkish politics, especially at election time. Already, sex tapes supposedly involving high-level officials have been delivered to some news organizations, although, for now, media executives have shown restraint. It is probably only a matter of time before they begin showing up on social media.
看起来，每个人都在等待令人颜面扫地的性爱录像出现。在土耳其政治史中，尤其是选举时节，常会发生这种龌龊事。已经有据传涉及高官的性爱录像被送到了一些新闻机构手中，尽管媒体管理层到目前为止显示了克制。它们在社交媒体上冒出来，很可能只是时间问题。
On Tuesday night thousands of protesters gathered in the Istanbul neighborhood of Kadikoy, on the Asian side of the city, chanting for the government to resign and calling Mr. Erdogan a thief. They were dispersed with tear gas and water cannon.
周二晚上，数千名抗议者聚集到伊斯坦布尔亚洲部分的卡德柯伊街区，反复呼喊口号要求政府下台，并把埃尔多安称作窃贼。他们遭到了催泪弹和高压水炮的驱赶。
After weeks of scandal, however, many here say they have simply become desensitized.
不过，丑闻延续了好多个星期，很多当地人说，他们已经变得不再敏感。
“I was not even surprised when I heard the conversation between Erdogan and his son,” said Aziz Burak Kanduz, 25, who works in the film industry in Istanbul. “It’s almost a state of numbness. As a society, we are going backwards, big time.”
“听到埃尔多安和他儿子讲的话，我连惊讶都没有了，”25岁的伊斯坦布尔电影从业者阿齐兹·比拉克·坎杜斯(Aziz Burak Kanduz)说。“几乎都麻木了。我们的社会在大踏步地倒退着。”