LOS ANGELES — What will be the difference between this year’s Sundance and the Sundance of 2006, when independent film was last riding high?
洛杉矶——今年的圣丹斯与独立电影上一回炙手可热的2006年有何不同？
About $100 million in prospective box-office receipts, if the trend line holds.
如果走势不变的话，其间的差别是大约1亿美元（约合6亿元人民币）的预期票房收入。
As art-house movie buyers and sellers visit Park City, Utah, for the annual Sundance Film Festival, which starts on Thursday, they face the reality that most of the esoteric fare will land on small screens, not big ones.
2014年度的圣丹斯电影节(Sundance Film Festival)将于本周四揭开大幕。当艺术电影的买卖双方齐聚犹他州帕克城的时候，他们要面对的事实是：这些晦涩的片子大多最后会出现在小屏幕上，而非大银幕。
In total, American-made films from the last festival — led by hits like “The Way, Way Back” and “Fruitvale Station” — have taken in about $160 million at the domestic box office. That is down by about a third from 2006, when the economy was soaring and Sundance standouts like “Little Miss Sunshine,” “The Illusionist” and “Thank You for Smoking” contributed to a total festival result of roughly $250 million in domestic ticket sales.
加起来，以《迷途知返》(The Way, Way Back)和《弗鲁特维尔车站》(Fruitvale Station)等热门电影为首的去年的圣丹斯美国片，取得了1.6亿美元左右的国内票房，比2006年下降了约三分之一。那一年，经济欣欣向荣，《阳光小美女》(Little Miss Sunshine)、魔术师(The Illusionist)和《感谢你抽烟》(Thank You for Smoking)等圣丹斯宠儿贡献了约2.5亿美元的国内总票房。
The gap may be even wider this year, as digital-leaning distributors like Magnolia, IFC and Radius-TWC, the boutique division of the boutique Weinstein Company, become the most active buyers. Perhaps half of the 120 films on the Sundance roster will find distribution, said Adam Leipzig, chief executive of Entertainment Media Partners, a film consultancy, “but most of them will not get theatrical distribution.”
随着青睐数字发行的公司成为最活跃的买家，今年的差距将进一步扩大。这些发行商包括：木兰影业(Magnolia)、IFC影业(IFC)、以及半径-TWC(Radius-TWC)——孤高的温斯坦公司(Weinstein Company)的孤高部门。电影咨询机构娱乐传媒合伙人公司(Entertainment Media Partners)的首席执行官亚当·莱比锡(Adam Leipzig)表示，圣丹斯花名册上的120部影片中，大概一半能找到发行商，“但其中多数不会在影院发行。”
Sundance, the pre-eminent bazaar for American independent cinema, is usually judged by how well its films sell and their resulting box office totals. This frustrates Robert Redford, the festival’s founder, who prefers that the event lean toward art over commerce.
圣丹斯是美国独立电影最重要的交易市场。评判它的标准往往是参与的电影的销量，以及接下来的总票房。这一点让圣丹斯的创始人罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)颇为苦恼。他本人希望，该电影节更注重艺术，而非商业。
“We pick films that might not ever have the chance to be seen elsewhere,” he said. “Sundance is about giving chances to diverse voices.”
“我们选择的电影，是那种在别的地方大概会永不见天日的片子，”他说。“圣丹斯的意义在于，给多元化的声音一个机会。”
But with the shortage of theatrical success for independent films, it’s unclear whether the new cinematic voices that Mr. Redford prizes can afford to keep speaking up. Mr. Leipzig estimates that filmmakers spent about $3 billion to make the more than 4,000 films submitted to Sundance, but in the aggregate will probably recoup only about 2 percent of their investment.
然而，随着独立电影票房大捷的稀缺，雷德福青睐的新声音是否还有资本涌现出来都变得不甚明朗。据莱比锡估计，各制片公司花了大约30亿美元来完成提交给圣丹斯的4000多部影片，但很可能总共仅能收回投资额的2%左右。
The very concept of a “sale” — the old Sundance measuring stick — has shrunk along with a diminishing theatrical audience. Companies that once paid millions of dollars for the right to distribute a film will now often acquire a picture for no money down. Instead they promise to put it in front of viewers, and give the filmmaker a cut of the proceeds, if there are any.
随着影院观众人数的不断萎缩，“大卖”——圣丹斯旧的衡量尺——概念本身也在退化。曾经为了发行权一掷数百万美金的发行公司如今往往是零预付购片，然后承诺将其推向观众，再给制作者分成，当然前提是有钱可分。
And most of the selections that reach theaters will stay there long enough only to be reviewed by critics, affirming a film’s feature status, before moving to video on demand.
而且，被选中在影院上映的片子中，多数的放映时长只会持续到与影评人见面的时候。一旦由此确定了长片的身份，就会流向视频点播市场。
Agents say that digital sales are starting to make up the slack at Sundance.
一些代理人称，数字销售已经开始弥补圣丹斯的颓势。
“Sometimes the ancillary windows are not at all ancillary,” said Rena Ronson, a sales agent at United Talent Agency, which will represent nearly a dozen films this time around, including “Laggies,” starring Keira Knightley as a 28-year-old woman stuck in permanent adolescence. She added, “I also think you have to look more broadly than just Sundance to judge the festival market. It’s quite strong overall.”
“有时候，补充渠道根本就不是补充性的，”联合经纪公司(United Talent Agency)的销售代理雷娜·龙森(Rena Ronson)说。该公司此次代理了近12部影片，包括《永远十六岁》(Laggies)。凯拉·奈特莉(Keira Knightley)在片中扮演停留在青春期的28岁女主角。龙森还说，“我认为，要想评判艺术节市场，不能局限在圣丹斯一家。整体而言，走势是相当强劲的。”
But most filmmakers have a more pessimistic view of digital distribution, saying that the money from those deals does not routinely reach them. There is also a shortage of publicly available statistics to support a booming on-demand market.
不过，多数电影工作者对数字发行的看法更为悲观，认为此类交易的收益往往到不了他们手上。也没有多少公开的数据可以支撑点播市场红红火火的说法。
Bidding wars still erupt from time to time. Distributors are already circling a handful of movies on Sundance’s coming slate, including “Dear White People,” a tongue-in-cheek exploration of racial identity at an Ivy League college.
时不时地，还是会爆发竞标战。发行商已然蜂拥到了圣丹斯花名册上的几部影片周围，比如《亲爱的白种人》(Dear White People)。这部讽刺之作探讨了一所常春藤名校的种族认同问题。
But few are likely to match 2005, when an all-night bidding war erupted for “Hustle and Flow.” Brad Grey of Paramount ultimately beat the competition by paying $9 million for the movie, in addition to promising to fund two other films. “Hustle and Flow” earned $22.2 million in domestic ticket sales.
可是，没有几个发行商会像2005年那样。当时，《川流熙攘》(Hustle and Flow)引爆了持续整夜的竞标大战。凭借900万美元的出价外加资助另外两部影片的承诺，派拉蒙(Paramount)的布拉德·格雷(Brad Grey)最终击败了各路竞争对手。该片后来取得了2220万美元的票房。
Some filmmakers are choosing to sidestep the brutal Sundance economics by going directly to the audience.
部分电影从业者选择避开圣丹斯的残酷经济竞争，转而直接面向观众。
“From the get-go it was clear I wouldn’t want to depend on festival acceptance,” said Marco Weber, referring to his young adult thriller, “California Scheming,” which he did not submit.
谈到自己的青少年惊悚片《加州靡局》(California Scheming)时，马尔科·韦伯(Marco Weber)说，“从一开始就明确了，我不想依靠电影节的承认。”他没有把这部影片提交上去。
This time, Mr. Weber, a Sundance veteran, is using his own Rapid Eye Film to release his movie in 15 cities on Jan. 31, while making it available in homes through providers like DirectTV. Having spent less than $1 million on the film, he said he figured he could turn a profit without Sundance.
这一次，圣丹斯常客韦伯将利用自己的快眼影业(Rapid Eye Film)来发行影片，1月31日起在15个城市上映，同时通过DirectTV等供应商面向电视观众。由于片子的成本不到100万美元，他表示，盘算之下，他觉得可以不去圣丹斯就能盈利。