GAZIANTEP, Turkey — Under pressure from its allies in the West, Turkey has made it harder for would-be jihadists to slip across the border and join the ranks of the Islamic State group at its base in northern Syria.
土耳其加济安泰普——在西方盟国的压力下，土耳其加强了管制，让那些投奔伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的圣战分子更难穿越该国边界，进入位于叙利亚北部的基地。
But it has been unable — or unwilling — to halt the flow as the group, also called ISIS or ISIL, continues to replenish forces depleted in battle.
但土耳其无法——或者不愿——阻断这种人员流动，亦称ISIS或ISIL的伊斯兰国也因此仍在获得新人，补充在战斗中损失的兵力。
Smugglers from border villages who have long earned a living ferrying pistachios, sugar, cigarettes and fuel across the border say they are compelled by the Islamic State to traffic in jihadists, under the threat of death or the end of their livelihoods. Sometimes they receive a late-night phone call from an ISIS commander inside Syria directing them to receive a recruit at a luxury hotel in this city to escort across the border.
长期以来，边境村庄的走私者都在依靠把坚果、糖、香烟和燃料运过边界线来谋生。他们说，伊斯兰国强迫他们帮助圣战者偷越边境，否则就要杀死他们，或者断掉他们的生计。有时候，叙利亚境内的ISIS指挥官会在深夜给他们打电话，让他们去城里某家豪华酒店与一个新兵接头，然后护送此人穿越边境。
“Things have become more difficult because Turkey has stricter procedures on the border,” one smuggler who gave only his first name, Mustafa, said in an interview at a cafe in Killis, a border town.
“事情越来越难办了，因为土耳其加强了对边境的管控，”一个走私者在边陲城镇基利斯的咖啡馆里接受采访时说。他只说自己名叫穆斯塔法(Mustafa)，不愿透露姓氏。
Even so, he said, he always finds a way, and sometimes the Turkish border guards in his village, who know him, look the other way.
他说，即便如此，他也总能想到办法。村里的土耳其边防卫兵认识他，有时候会网开一面。
The increased pressure means the frenetic days of 2012 are over. Foreign jihadists, with long beards and trademark fanny packs who once filled the cafes and streets in border towns, now slip quietly through Turkey, trying to attract little attention. Military supply shops, which once openly sold black headbands printed with Islamist slogans, body armor and, sometimes, weapons to foreigners on their way to Syria, have taken their business into back rooms.
压力的增加意味着2012年那样的疯狂时期结束了。当时，边境城镇的咖啡馆里和街道上挤满了蓄着长须、戴着标志性腰包的外国圣战者。现在，他们在土耳其时行动低调，试图避免引人注意。这里的军用品商店曾经向前往叙利亚的外国人公开出售防弹衣、印有伊斯兰主义口号的黑色头带，有时还有武器。现在这些东西已经不再公开交易。
So far nearly 20,000 foreigners, including about 3,400 Westerners, have joined the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, according to Nicholas Rasmussen, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center in Washington. The majority of them have traveled through Turkey, underscoring, Western officials said, both the difficulty of patrolling a porous border and a degree of ambivalence among Turkish officials who do not see the Islamic State as a primary enemy.
美国国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)主管尼古拉斯·拉斯穆森(Nicholas Rasmussen)称，迄今为止，有将近2万名外国人到伊拉克和叙利亚加入了伊斯兰国，其中包括约3400名西方人。西方官员称，这些人大多取道土耳其。这既突显了在漏洞百出的边界进行巡逻的困难度，也体现了土耳其官员在一定程度上存在着矛盾心态，因为他们并没有把伊斯兰国视为主要敌人。
Though Turkey has taken some recent measures to crack down on the flow of jihadists, none of these efforts are enough for Turkey’s Western allies, especially those in Europe who, in the wake of the January attack on the offices of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris, are increasingly worried about militants returning home to launch attacks.
尽管土耳其近期采取了一些措施，来打击圣战者偷越边界的问题，但在其西方盟国、尤其是欧洲盟国眼中，这些努力仍嫌不够。讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)今年1月在巴黎的办公室遭到袭击之后，盟友们越来越担心武装分子会回国发动袭击。
The issue has highlighted the widening gulf between Turkey and its Western allies, who have frequently questioned why Turkey, a NATO member with a large military and well-regarded intelligence service, is not doing more to address the jihadist threat.
这个问题突显了土耳其与西方盟友之间越来越大的分歧。这些盟友不时责问，土耳其是北约成员国，有庞大的军队，情报工作也广受好评，为什么没有在应对圣战分子的威胁方面发挥更大作用？
In recent testimony in Washington before Congress, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, was asked if he was optimistic that Turkey would do more in the fight against the Islamic State.
美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)最近在华盛顿出席国会听证会的时候，有人问他：对于土耳其是否将在打击伊斯兰国方面做更多事情，他感到乐观吗？
“No, I’m not,” Mr. Clapper said in an unusually blunt public criticism. “I think Turkey has other priorities and other interests.”
“不，我不乐观，”克拉珀以不同寻常的生硬语气这样公开批评。“我认为土耳其有其他优先事项和其他利益。”
Turkey insists it is doing what it can. At Turkey’s airports, train stations and bus depots, undercover security agents search for travelers on one-way tickets and secretly scrutinize passengers with long beards and other indicators that they might be jihadists. But officials say that Islamist recruits are increasingly trying to blend in as tourists — shaving and wearing jeans and T-shirts.
土耳其坚称自己已经尽了力。在该国的机场、火车站、汽车站，便衣安全人员会搜寻持单程票的旅客，并且暗暗观察一些留着长须或者带有圣战者其他潜在特征的乘客。不过官员们表示，投奔伊斯兰国的人越来越多地装扮成游客——他们剃了胡须，穿着牛仔裤和T恤。
Turkish officials also say they are limited by restraints on intelligence sharing from Western countries, which they say has improved but remains inadequate. They say they have compiled, with the help of foreign intelligence agencies, about 10,000 names on a no-entry list, or about half the number of foreigners believed to have joined the Islamic State.
土耳其官员还表示，西方国家在情报分享方面的种种规定令他们受到了限制，情况虽然有所改善，但仍然不够好。他们说，在外国情报机构的帮助下，土耳其已经编制了一份禁止入境人员的名单，其中包含1万人，是据信已经加入伊斯兰国的外国人总数的大约一半。
Turkish officials bristle at the criticism from the West and say that, especially among European countries, the focus on the problem came only after the Charlie Hebdo attack and after Hayat Boumeddiene, the wife of one of the Paris attackers, was able to slip in to Syria from Turkey. But Turkish officials also say that Europeans should try to fix the problem at its root, stopping the demonization of Islam in Europe, which they say contributes to radicalization in the first place.
土耳其官员对西方的批评颇为愤怒。他们表示，直到巴黎的《查理周报》遭到袭击，行凶者之一的妻子哈亚特·布梅迪安(Hayat Boumeddiene)成功地从土耳其溜到叙利亚之后，西方才把注意力集中在这个问题上，欧洲国家尤其如此。土耳其官员还称，欧洲国家应该尝试从根本上解决问题，不要再在欧洲妖魔化伊斯兰教。他们说，这是一开始导致激进倾向的原因。
“I am not trying to put the blame on others here. Everyone is responsible and this not about a blame game, but those who accuse Turkey of not doing anything should ask what exactly they have done to prevent these people from traveling so freely, or to get radicalized in the first place,” said a senior Turkish foreign ministry official responsible for intelligence on foreign fighters. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss intelligence matters.
“我并不是想怪罪他人，每个人都有责任，而且这也不是在玩推卸责任的把戏。但是，那些指责土耳其无所作为的人，应该问问自己都做了些什么，来阻止这些人如此自由地旅行，或者为什么他们当初会变得激进起来，”土耳其外交部的一位资深官员说。此人负责关于外国武装分子的情报工作，由于发言涉及情报内容，该官员不愿具名。
In the first years of the Syrian civil war, now approaching its fifth year, jihadists moved easily across the border, often with the help of Turkish agents acting on behalf of a government eager to enable the downfall of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.
叙利亚内战目前已接近第五个年头。第一年里，圣战者穿越边境相当容易，而且往往有代表土耳其政府的中介提供帮助，因为该国急于让叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)倒台。
Turkey’s belief that Mr. Assad would fall quickly never materialized, and even as jihadists have come to dominate the battlefields, Turkey still sees Mr. Assad as its primary enemy. At the same time, analysts and officials said, Turkey is increasingly worried that should it take a tougher stance on the Islamic State there could be retaliation inside Turkey, in the form of attacks by ISIS cells known to operate within the country.
土耳其以为阿萨德政权很快就会崩溃，但是事与愿违。甚至在圣战者开始主导战局时，土耳其仍然把阿萨德视为头号敌人。与此同时，分析师和官员表示，土耳其越来越担心的一件事是：如果它对伊斯兰国采取更加强硬的立场，后者就有可能在土耳其境内实施报复，让潜伏在该国的ISIS分子发动袭击。
Turkey has long pushed for a buffer zone in northern Syria. This area, say the Turks, would allow a safe space for refugees and an opposition government to set roots on Syrian soil, and for moderate rebels — who could fight both the Assad government and ISIS — to train. The United States has so far been opposed to this, saying it would entail a significant expansion of the military operation, including establishing a no-fly zone.
长期以来，土耳其都主张在叙利亚北部设立一个缓冲地带。土耳其宣称，这将为难民提供一片安全区域、让反对派政府在叙利亚扎下根基，而且方便培训可以同时打击阿萨德政府和ISIS的温和派反政府武装。美国迄今为止一直反对这个主张，认为这将意味着显著扩大军事行动的规模，包括设立一个禁飞区。
But as worries increase over the threat posed by foreign jihadists, the idea could be revived, some analysts and officials said.
但是，一些分析师和官员表示，随着人们日益担忧外国圣战者造成的威胁，这个主张有可能重新提上日程。
“The buffer zone is the only solution for the crisis of the refugees and the crisis of the extremists and foreign fighters in Syria,” said Col. Ziad Obeid, a commander in the Free Syrian Army who is based near the Syrian border in southern Turkey and has been involved in discussions with the Turks about a buffer zone.
“设立缓冲区是纾解难民危机、缓和叙利亚极端分子和外国武装分子危机的唯一解决方案，”叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)的指挥官齐亚德·奥贝德少校(Ziad Obeid)说。叙利亚自由军总部设在土耳其南部靠近叙利亚边境的地方，而奥贝德本人曾参与同土耳其人讨论缓冲区的事宜。