LONDON — Mohammed Emwazi was 6 when his parents moved to West London from his birthplace in Kuwait, and he seems to have lived a normal life, studying hard and graduating in computer sciences from the University of Westminster in 2009.
伦敦——穆罕默德·恩瓦济(Mohammed Emwazi)出生于科威特，六岁时随父母搬到了伦敦西区。他的人生看起来十分普通，经过努力学习，他于2009年从威斯敏斯特大学(University of Westminster)计算机科学专业毕业。
But he came to the attention of the British intelligence services in May that same year, detained as he landed in Tanzania with two friends on what he described as a celebratory safari. British officials thought he and his friends were headed to Somalia, to fight with the terrorist group Al Shabab, and allegedly tried to recruit him as an informant before shipping him back home.
然而，就是在这一年的5月，恩瓦济引起了英国情报机构的注意，在与两个朋友一同抵达坦桑尼亚之后，他遭到了逮捕。他说那是一次庆祝性的旅行。而英国官员认为，他和他的朋友想要前往索马里，参与恐怖组织青年党(Al Shabab)的战斗。据称，在将他遣返回国之前，英国官员还试图招募他为线人。
Mr. Emwazi was identified on Thursday as the masked Islamic State fighter called “Jihadi John,” and his journey from computer student to a murderous spokesman for the Islamic State is only beginning to come clear. How and when he was radicalized, and whether the British intelligence services were at fault — either dealing with him too harshly or not identifying him as a serious threat soon enough — is already the subject of hot debate.
周四，恩瓦济的一个身份得到了确认，他就是伊斯兰国的蒙面武装分子“圣战者约翰”(Jihadi John)。从计算机专业学生到杀人不眨眼的伊斯兰国发言人，他的人生历程才刚刚开始浮出水面。他为何、何时变得极端，英国的情报机构是否负有责任——要么是对待他的方式过于严厉，要么没有尽早认定他是一个严重威胁——已经引发了激烈的讨论。
The dilemma for security services is the same all over the West, whether in Britain, France or now in the United States, as some young Muslims are becoming radicalized or seeking to join a jihad. Given important constitutional and legal protections, how do counterterrorism and police officials draw the line when they find enough evidence to suspect someone, but do not have enough to prosecute them, or even to keep them under legal surveillance?
由于一些年轻的穆斯林正在变得极端化，或寻求加入圣战，西方各国的安全机构都面临着同样的两难之境，无论是在英国、法国，还是在如今的美国。考虑到重要的宪法和法律保护，当反恐官员和警方在找到足够证据怀疑某人，但却没有足够证据起诉他们，甚或只是进行依法监控时，他们该如何行事？
“When you have a lot of evidence but not enough to prosecute what do you do?” asked Shashank Joshi, a senior research fellow at Royal United Services Institute, a British research institution. “Doing nothing is not practical or acceptable under today’s conditions.”
“当你有很多证据，但不足以起诉嫌疑人的时候，你该怎么办？”英国皇家三军联合研究所(Royal United Services Institute)高级研究员沙善·乔希(Shashank Joshi)说。“在当前的形势下，不作为是行不通的，也是不可接受的。”
Mr. Emwazi was called “Jihadi John” by the foreign hostages he guarded, a number of whom he apparently beheaded in widely circulated videos. First named on Thursday by The Washington Post website, his identity was confirmed by a senior British security official, who said that the British government had identified Mr. Emwazi some time ago but had not disclosed his name for operational reasons. The identification was also confirmed in Washington by a senior United States military intelligence official.
恩瓦济被他所看守的外国人质称作“圣战者约翰”，其中一些人质已经被他斩首，视频在广泛传播。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)网站周四率先披露了他的姓名，一名英国高级官员证实了他的身份，并表示，英国政府在一段时间以前就已经确定了恩瓦济的身份，但由于行动上的原因没有披露他的姓名。美国的一名高级情报官员在华盛顿也证实了恩瓦济的这一身份。
Information is still vague about Mr. Emwazi, with Britain officially refusing to confirm that he is indeed “Jihadi John” because of what are described as continuing operations.
有关恩瓦济的信息仍然相当模糊，英国已正式拒绝证实他就是“圣战者约翰”，理由是一些行动尚在进行中。
But Mr. Emwazi appears in 2011 court documents, obtained by the BBC, as a member of a network of extremists who funneled funds, equipment and recruits “from the United Kingdom to Somalia to undertake terrorism-related activity.”
不过，在英国广播公司(BBC)得到的一些2011年的法庭文件中，出现了恩瓦济的名字。文件上显示，恩瓦济是一个极端分子网络的成员，他们“从英国向索马里”输送资金、设备和人员，“用于从事与恐怖主义有关的活动”。
Mr. Emwazi is alleged to be part of a group from West and North London, sometimes known as “the North London Boys,” with links to Al Shabab, organized by an individual, whose name was redacted, who had returned to London in February 2007.
恩瓦济据称属于一个来自伦敦西区和北区的团体。该组织也被称作“伦敦北区男孩”，与青年党存在关联。它的组织者已于2007年2月返回伦敦，此人的名字在文件中被密涂。
Another person associated with that group was Bilal al-Berjawi, who was born in Lebanon but brought to West London as a baby. He fought in Somalia and rose through the ranks of Al Shabab and Al Qaeda in Africa before being killed in a drone strike in January 2012, according to Raffaello Pantucci, also a fellow at the Royal United Services Institute.
另一个与该组织有关的人叫做比拉尔·贝贾维(Bilal al-Berjawi)，出生于黎巴嫩，婴儿时期就被带到了伦敦西区。皇家三军联合研究所的另一名研究员拉菲洛·潘图奇(Raffaello Pantucci)说，贝贾维曾在索马里参与战斗，在青年党和基地组织都得到了晋升，直到2012年1月在一次无人机袭击中丧生。
Mr. Berjawi traveled to Kenya in February 2009, telling his family he was heading for a safari; he and a friend were detained in Nairobi and shipped back to London, but made it to Somalia in October that year.
贝贾维2009年2月曾到过肯尼亚，他对家人说自己是去旅行；他和一个朋友在内罗毕被扣押并遣返回伦敦，不过，他们还是在那一年的10月抵达了索马里。
The neighborhood group “is a tight community and it’s very probable that they knew each other and were part of the same crew,” Mr. Pantucci said.
这个社区组织“是一个关系紧密的团体，他们很有可能相互认识，属于同一个团队，”潘图奇说。
So it is likely that Mr. Emwazi’s own safari a few months later in May, from Britain to Germany to Tanzania, using the name of Muhammad ibn Muazzam, set off alarms with the British security services, and that he had started on the road to radicalism even before his encounter with MI5 in 2009.
因此，情况很有可能是，几个月后的5月份，恩瓦济使用穆罕默德·伊本·穆阿扎姆(Muhammad ibn Muazzam)这个名字，从英国到德国再到坦桑尼亚时，就已经引起英国安全机构的警觉，而在2009年被军情五处(MI5)盯上之前，他已经走上了极端化的道路。
Asim Qureshi, research director at CAGE, a British advocacy organization opposed to what it calls the “war on terror,” met with Mr. Emwazi in the fall of 2009. Mr. Emwazi was very angry over his treatment at the hands of British security services, Mr. Qureshi said, and the two stayed in contact for two years.
英国倡导机构CAGE对所谓的“反恐战争”持反对态度。该机构研究主管阿西姆·库雷希(Asim Qureshi)在2009年秋天见过恩瓦济。库雷希说，当时恩瓦济对英国安全机构对待自己的方式感到十分愤怒，两人保持了两年的联系。
Mr. Qureshi said he is not 100 percent sure that Mr. Emwazi, whom he described as “extremely kind, extremely humble and extremely soft-spoken,” is the masked Islamic State terrorist.
库雷希表示，自己并不是百分之百确定恩瓦济就是那个蒙面的伊斯兰国恐怖分子。他口中的恩瓦济“非常友善、非常谦恭、非常和颜悦色”。
But he nonetheless blamed Mr. Emwazi’s treatment for his radicalization, describing harassment by police officers at airports, pressure on Kuwait to cancel a visa and on one occasion, Mr. Emwazi being “roughed up” and “strangled by a police officer” before being sent home.
但尽管如此，他将恩瓦济的激进归咎于他的遭遇。他说，恩瓦济曾在机场被警察骚扰，警方还向科威特施压，要求其取消恩瓦济的签证，还有一次，恩瓦济在被送回家之前“被一名警察暴打”和“勒脖子”。
“This is not somebody who ever said, ‘I hate the system, I reject the system,’” Mr. Qureshi said. “It’s someone who said, ‘I don’t like the environment but I’ll work within the system to effect change.’”
“他没说过，‘我恨这个制度，我反对这个制度，’” 库雷希说。“他说的是，‘我不喜欢这个环境，但我会在制度范围内努力让它发生改变。’”
As ever, there is a set of conflicting interpretations, with some seeing a young Muslim man treated badly, put into a headlock, barred from traveling and induced to betray his friends, and those who say that such treatment is not any excuse — or reason — for repeatedly cutting off the heads of civilians taken hostage.
一如既往地有一系列相互冲突的解读出现，一些人看到的是一名被虐待的年轻穆斯林男子，被扼住了脖子，并被禁止出行，在他人的诱导下背叛朋友，也有人表示，这样的遭遇不能成为几次三番将被劫为人质的平民的头颅割下的借口或理由。
Further, there are others who are wondering how security services can identify potential terrorists like Mr. Emwazi, but then fail to recognize what risk they pose.
还有一些人在疑惑，安全机构如何能认出了恩瓦济这样的潜在恐怖分子，却又未能认识到他们构成的危险。
CAGE, which embraces its notoriety, emphasized similar circumstances in the case of Michael Adebolajo, who attacked and hacked to death a British soldier, Lee Rigby, outside a London barracks in May 2013. Mr. Adebolajo claimed he had been detained in Kenya and “tortured” by British officials who suspected he was traveling to Somalia to join Al Shabab, and MI5 also tried to turn him into an informer.
在迈克尔·阿德波拉杰(Michael Adebolajo)一案中，欣然接受自己恶名的CAGE也强调了类似的情形。2013年5月，阿德波拉杰在伦敦一处营房外袭击并砍死了英国士兵李·里格比(Lee Rigby)。他自称曾在肯尼亚被拘，遭到了怀疑他要去索马里加入青年党的英国官员的“拷打”，并且英国军情五处还试图把他变成内线。
Mr. Emwazi, returning from Tanzania, was detained again at an airport in the Netherlands and questioned by Dutch and British security officials.
从坦桑尼亚回来后，恩瓦济再次在荷兰一机场被拘，并受到了荷兰和英国安全官员的讯问。
Mr. Emwazi later moved to Kuwait, his birthplace, working for a computer company, and he returned to London at least twice, Mr. Qureshi said. British counterterrorism officials detained Mr. Emwazi in June 2010, fingerprinting him and searching his belongings. In July of that year, Mr. Qureshi said, Mr. Emwazi was not allowed to return to Kuwait, which had apparently refused to renew his visa, and Mr. Emwazi blamed the British government.
库雷希称，后来恩瓦济移居出生地科威特，供职于一家计算机公司，并至少回过伦敦两次。2010年6月，英国反恐官员拘捕恩瓦济，提取了他的指纹并搜查了他的行李。库雷希说，同年7月，恩瓦济被禁止返回科威特。科威特似乎拒绝为其续签证，恩瓦济将其归咎于英国政府。
“I had a job waiting for me and marriage to get started,” he wrote in a 2010 email to Mr. Qureshi. “But now I feel like a prisoner, only not in a cage, in London.”
“有一份工作等着我，我还准备开始婚姻生活，”恩瓦济在2010年给库雷希的一封电子邮件中写道。“但现在我感觉自己像个囚犯，只是没被关在牢笼里，而是被困在伦敦。”
In his statement, Mr. Qureshi said of Mr. Emwazi, “He desperately wanted to use the system to change his situation, but the system ultimately rejected him.”
库雷希在声明中提到恩瓦济时说，“他极度希望利用这个制度改变自身处境，但这个制度最终却拒绝了他。”
Mr. Qureshi said he had last heard from Mr. Emwazi in January 2012. By 2013, he was in Idlib, Syria, helping to guard Western hostages and in August 2014, presided over the first of the beheading videos of those hostages.
库雷希说自己最后一次听到恩瓦济的消息是在2012年1月。到2013年的时候，恩瓦济已身在叙利亚的伊德利卜，参与过看守西方人质。2014年8月，他在一段视频中组织斩首人质。后来出现了一系列人质斩首视频。
Even if Mr. Emwazi’s version of events, as passed on by Mr. Qureshi, is true, Mr. Pantucci asked, “Is it justifiable to go and behead journalists and aid workers because you have cops causing you trouble?”
潘图奇问道，即便如库雷希所说，恩瓦济有关自己的遭遇的陈述属实，“因为警察给你造成了麻烦，就有理由去斩首记者和援助人员吗”？
Mr. Joshi said there were doubts about CAGE’s “crude and simplistic” narrative of radicalization because of police mistreatment, saying that there was evidence of Mr. Emwazi’s involvement with Somalia before he was ever detained, and long before the Syrian civil war and the rise of Islamic State.
乔希表示，对CAGE“简单粗暴”地称警方的虐待导致恩瓦济变得激进的说法存在质疑，并称有证据表明，恩瓦济在被拘前就与索马里有关联，远在叙利亚内战和伊斯兰国崛起之前。
J.M. Berger, a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington and co-author of a newly released book on the history of ISIS, also said that the narrative of police harassment, while it may have contributed to his radicalization, does not explain it. “Malcolm X and MLK got a lot more pressure from police, and neither decided that decapitating people is the right response,” he said.
华盛顿布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)研究员J·M·贝格尔(J.M. Berger)不久前刚刚出版一本与人合著的书，介绍伊斯兰国历史，他也说警方的虐待尽管可能促使恩瓦济变得激进，但并不能完全解释他的激进。“马尔科姆·X(Malcolm X)和马丁·路德·金(MLK)面临的来自警方的压力大得多，但他们都未认定，割掉别人的头颅是正确的应对措施，”他说。
There were similar law enforcement issues in the case of three young men in Brooklyn who became fascinated with Islamic State. There are benefits to waiting and watching rather than rushing to disrupt a plot the moment it is detected, said Diego G. Rodriguez, chief of the F.B.I.’s New York division.
曾有一桩案件也存在类似的执法问题，涉及三名对伊斯兰国心生仰慕的布鲁克林年轻男子。联邦调查局(FBI)纽约分局局长迭戈·G·罗德里格斯(Diego G. Rodriguez)表示，在发现阴谋时，不匆忙制止而是静观其变，是有好处的。
“We’re always trying to identify these folks, their hierarchy, their network,” he said.
“我们一直在努力确认这些人，他们的层级和网络，”他说。