On Wednesday, the moon will blot out the sun, creating a total solar eclipse that will darken the sky over parts of the western Pacific and Southeast Asia.
本周三，月球遮蔽太阳所形成的日全食将会笼罩部分西太平洋和东南亚的天空。
The spectacle will begin on March 9 and finish on March 8. Yes, truly.
这场奇观将于3月9号开始，至3月8号结束。是的，千真万确。
That’s because the moon’s shadow will first fall over parts of the Pacific on Wednesday morning local time, and then cross the international date line and appear visible on Tuesday afternoon local time.
这是由于月球的阴影会在当地时间周三最先覆盖部分太平洋地区，然后穿过国际日期变更线，在当地时间周二晚上出现。
Total solar eclipses occur when the darkest part of the moon’s shadow, the umbra, encases part of the Earth. Anyone standing where the umbra falls will see the moon engulf the sun for about four minutes.
日全食发生在当月球阴影最漆黑的部分——全影——遮挡部分地面的时刻。站在全影覆盖的地方所有人都会观看到月球吞食太阳约4分钟。
This year, people in parts of Indonesia, Borneo and Sulawesi within a narrow strip stretching about 90 miles wide — the line of totality — will experience a blackout at some point from 7 to 11 a.m. local time. (The total eclipse will occur sometime from midnight G.M.T. (7 p.m. Eastern) to 4 a.m. G.M.T. (11 p.m. Eastern).
今年，在位于部分印度尼西亚，婆罗洲和苏拉威西的一条90英里宽的全食带上的人们将会经历一场黑暗，从当地时间早上7点到11点。（完整日全食将从格林威治时间午夜[东部时间下午7点]到格林威治时间早上4点[东部时间下午11点]。）
“The cool thing for those who are going to be in the path of totality is that they are going to be able to see the outer atmosphere of the sun called the corona,” said C. Alex Young, a solar astrophysicist from NASA. The corona will look like flames streaming from behind the moon. “This is only visible from the ground during a total solar eclipse,” he said.
“对那些位于全食带上的人来说，更酷的是，他们可以看见太阳上被称作日冕的外层大气，”C. Alex Young说，他是NASA的天体物理学家。日冕看起来像是从月球后面喷出的火焰。“在地面上，它只有在日全食时才能看到，”他说。
Those in Australia, South China, and Southeast Asia as well as Hawaii and Alaska will stand in the shade of a partial solar eclipse when the moon’s second shadow, the penumbra, catches them in its shade. From their perspectives, it’ll look as if some galactic giant took a big bite out of the sun. 
那些在澳大利亚、中国南方、东南亚以及夏威夷和阿拉斯加的人将位于日偏食的阴影范围，届时月球的第二层阴影——半影——会笼罩着他们。在他们看来，仿佛有某个太空巨兽咬了太阳一大口。
If you’re one of the billions of people who will not see this year’s eclipse, don’t fret; there are consolation prizes. The San Francisco Exploratorium will live stream the total eclipse from Micronesia on its website. And Jupiter will be at opposition Tuesday, allowing stargazers everywhere to see the planet at its brightest in the night sky without needing a telescope.
如果你是数亿看不到今年日食的人之一，不必沮丧，这里还有安慰品。旧金山探索馆会在网上直播位于密克罗尼西亚的本次日全食。而且在星期二，木星将会出现在夜晚的天空，所有观星者都能裸眼欣赏这颗行星最亮的时刻。
Finally, for those who live in the continental United States, the next total solar eclipse will pass through the middle of the country in August 2017. Total solar eclipses occur about once every one to two years, the last one being in March 2015. It’ll be the first time in nearly 40 years the spectacle will be visible from the continental United States, and it’s expected to bring in a flood of viewers, so consider stocking up on some protective glasses.
最后，对那些住在美国的人来说，下一场日全食将会在2017年8月穿过国土中部。日全食大约每1到2年出现1次，上一次是在2015年3月。这会是近40年内该奇观首次出现在美国大陆，预计将会吸引一大波看客，因此考虑囤积一些护目镜吧。