London is in the midst of a boom so giddy it has parted company with the rest of Britain. Construction is everywhere, from the new towers of the City of London (a global financial center larger than Wall Street) to the mansions of Kensington (where the world’s superwealthy burrow below ground to accommodate staff quarters and the de rigueur swimming pool) to ever-hipper eastern districts like Hoxton (sought after by the ordinary mortals driven from the center).
伦敦正处于经济腾飞之中，速度如此之快，已让英国其他地区远落其后。到处都在建设，从伦敦金融城（一个比华尔街还大的国际金融中心）的高楼，到肯辛顿的豪宅（在那里居住的世界超级富豪正在地下给服务人员建造宿舍，还有赶时髦的游泳池），再到像霍克斯顿这样的日益时髦的东区（这是被挤出市中心的普通人追捧的地方）。
Money does not precisely gush from every home, business and storefront in central London, as it did before the meltdown of 2008, but it oozes again in sticky abundance. House prices in London have jumped about 19 percent in a year. The London economy is set to grow by over 4 percent this year in a nation that, elsewhere, struggles to shake off stagnation. The capital has become a glittering enclave in a country often resentful of its dominance. It presides with spiffy superiority, like squeaky-clean Singapore looking down on dusty Southeast Asia.
准确地说，钱还不是像2008年危机之前那样，在每个家庭、每个企业，以及伦敦市中心的每个商店里源源不端地流动，但钱已再次足够丰富地渗入。伦敦房价已在一年中上涨了约19％。伦敦经济今年的增长率将超过4％，而全国其他地方仍在挣扎着摆脱停滞。在这个经常不满其统治地位的国家，首都已成为一个引人注目的国中国。它以漂亮而时髦的姿态高高在上，像是非常干净的新加坡看不起脏乱的东南亚。
There is talk of a bubble. Nobody cares. Foreign money pours in, to the City of course, where the Shard skyscraper now rises over 1,000 feet, but also into houses and apartments often used only a few weeks a year. In Belgravia, Mayfair and Marylebone the oligarchs of Kazakhstan, the oil-rich of the Gulf and the newly affluent of Asia bivouac with their staffs. They shop, oblivious to the displaced masses with day jobs. The average masters of the universe in London, unlike those in the United States, can enjoy residency without being taxed on global income.
有人说伦敦经济有泡沫。谁管那个。外国的热钱大量涌入，当然是投给金融城，那里的碎片大厦(The Shard)现以超过300米高，也有的钱投到每年往往只用几周的住宅和公寓。贝尔格拉维亚、梅费尔和马里波恩这些富人区成了哈萨克斯坦的政治寡头、以及来自石油资源丰富的海湾地区或亚洲的新富带着仆人临时居住的场所。他们上街采购，对那些住不起富人区的上班族视而不见​​。在伦敦，宇宙的这些普通主人们，可以享受居住权，而不被对其全球收入征税，不像他们在美国那样。
Large numbers of luxury properties sit empty most of the time, palatial slivers of big portfolios. If Vladimir V. Putin is serious about defending Russian speakers wherever they are, he may have to annex the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, where Russian is a lingua franca on the King’s Road.
大量豪宅在大部分时间空着，它们只不过是大投资组合中壮丽的小部分而已​​。如果弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)真要捍卫讲俄语的人，无论他们在世界上什么地方的话，那他也许需要吞并肯辛顿和切尔西的皇家自治区，那里的国王路上，俄语是通用语言。
None of this will be unfamiliar to New Yorkers. The other great global city — like London a magnet to strivers of every kind and home to every kind of bad English — has its own bubble. It sucks in money from across the globe, even without those tax advantages. Real estate prices soar. Ordinary people are pushed out. As in London, far-flung districts rise. Bushwick has arrived; East New York looms. New York is a world apart, even if its relative weight in the national economy is much smaller than that of the British capital.
所有这一切对纽约人来说都不陌生。那另一座伟大的全球城市，像伦敦一样，吸引着各种各样的奋斗者，也是能听到各种糟糕英语的地方。纽约也有自己的泡沫。即使没有伦敦那样的税收优惠，纽约也从世界各地吸收着大量资金。导致房地产价格飞涨。一般老百姓已住不起了。纽约像伦敦一样，遍布着高档小区。布什维克（Bushwisk，位于纽约市布鲁克林区，译注）已今非昔比；东纽约也在急起直追。整个纽约就是另外一个世界，虽然其在全美经济中的相对权重比英国首都在全英经济中的小得多。
What draws the world to London and New York is opportunity. That’s fine, of course. But they are also magnets to people looking for a safe place for their money. Having made it big in autocratic countries with parlous legal systems (if that), a cowed press and rampant corruption — say, Russia and China — oligarchs and crony capitalists wake up one day and find that, gosh, they like nothing as much as democratic systems under the rule of law held accountable by an independent press. Having trashed the West, they trust the West with their money.
把全世界都吸引到伦敦和纽约的东西是机会。这当然很好。但这两座城市也吸引着为自己的金钱找安全存放地的人们。在那些法律制度（如果有的话）不怎么样、媒体不敢说话、腐败泛滥的专制国家，比如俄罗斯或中国，那些发了财的寡头和权贵资本家有朝一日醒来，突然发现，哎呀，他们更喜欢有独立的新闻监督的法制民主体制，没有比那再好的东西了。以前他们大批痛批西方，现在他们把自己的钱信托给西方。
This then is the way the world works: Autocratic hypercapitalism without Western checks and balances produces new elites whose dream is an American or British lifestyle and education for their children, and whose other goal, knowing how their own capricious systems really function, is to buy into the rule of law by acquiring real estate, driving up prices in prime markets to the point where the middle classes of those countries, with incomes often stagnant or falling, are pushed aside.
然后就有了世界上的这种运作方式：没有西方权利制衡的专制超级资本主义产生新精英，他们的梦想是美国人或英国人的生活方式，以及让他们的孩子接受美国或英国式的教育，他们对自己变幻莫测的系统如何运作有真正的了解，所以他们的另一个目标，是通过收购房地产入股法制体系，结果是把最好的房地产市场的价格抬高到一种程度，以至于那些国家的中产阶层被挤出市场，这些中产者的收入已多年没有增长、或者还有所下降。
This process is mirrored at the national level, where the bargain is that American debt is bought by Asian governments, notably the Chinese, and Asians make money through access to credit-fueled American markets and consumers. Asians lend America money to police the world: Their new wealth depends on American-underwritten stability. They know it. Surface conflict often masks inextricable connectedness.
这个过程也反映在国家层面，这个层面的交易是，美国的债务由亚洲各国（尤其是中国）政府购买，亚洲人通过获得靠信贷推动的美国市场和消费者份额来赚钱。亚洲人借钱给美国，让其充当世界警察：他们的新财富依赖于由美国打包票的稳定。他们知道这一点。表面的冲突往往掩盖着不可分割的经济缠连。
London and New York, with roughly the same populations, have become booming city-states that reflect 21st-century openness and fluidity, but also the skewed economics and growing inequalities of a world where finance has outflanked the law and the global rich find ways to game a system that holds the majority in its grip.
人口大致相同的伦敦和纽约，已成为蓬勃发展的城市国家，它们反映着21世纪的开放性和流动性，也反映着世界上一种扭曲的经济关系和不断增长的不平等，在这个世界上，金融已胜过法律，让全球富豪能想方设法绕过钳制着大多数人的制度。
In London during these boom times, the disparities can feel obscene. Still, London does the public sphere, like bike schemes, road surfaces and the subway, much better than New York. It is a European city, after all. But it sits in a middling nation well past its zenith. New York does power, directness and steak a lot better than London. It races and churns. London carries on.
在伦敦的这些繁荣时期，贫富差距可以达到骇人听闻的程度。尽管如此，伦敦在公共领域做得比纽约好得多，比如自行车规划，路面和地铁。这毕竟是一个欧洲城市。但伦敦坐落在一个早已过了顶峰的中等国家。纽约在操纵权力、直来直往，以及吃牛排上比伦敦更好。纽约勇往直前，不断翻新。伦敦只是继续下去。