If there was a single moment that captured what would carry Hillary Clinton to the cusp of the 2016 Democratic nomination, it came not during her sun-splashed campaign kickoff in New York last June, or in any of her speeches celebrating hard-fought primary victories over Sen. Bernie Sanders.
如果说有一个时刻，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)身上呈现出了让她即将获得2016年民主党总统候选人提名的特质，那它并不是去年6月她在纽约启动竞选的那个阳光灿烂的日子；也不是她哪一次发表演说，庆祝在激烈的初选选战中战胜参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。
No, it was the unscripted instant in which a blasé Clinton coolly brushed from her shoulder a speck of lint, dirt — or perhaps nothing at all — as a Republican-led House panel subjected her to more than eight hours of questioning in October over her handling of the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya.
它其实是一个脚本之外的瞬间：去年10月，由共和党领导的一个众议院委员会迫使克林顿就其应对2012年叙利亚班加西恐怖袭击的做法接受了超过8小时的质询，其间，处变不惊的她冷静地掸掉了肩部的一点儿衣料纤维或灰尘——又或者那里什么都没有。
She may not be the orator President Barack Obama is, or the retail politician her husband was. But Clinton’s steely fortitude in this campaign has plainly inspired older women, black voters and many others who see in her perseverance a kind of mirror to their own struggles. And Clinton’s very durability — her tenacity, grit and capacity for enduring and overcoming adversity — could be exactly what is required to defeat Donald Trump.
她或许不是奥巴马总统那样的演说家，也不是她丈夫那样擅长基层竞选的政客。但克林顿在本次选战中表现出来的钢铁般的毅力，显然让包括上了年纪的女性和黑人在内的众多选民受到了鼓舞。他们在坚毅的克林顿身上仿佛看到了不懈抗争的自己。克林顿惊人的耐久力——足以忍受和克服困境的坚韧、勇气和能力——可能恰恰是击败唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)所需要的特质。
As a politician’s wife, first lady, senator and secretary of state — and as a two-time candidate for president — Clinton, 68, has redefined the role of women in U.S. politics each time she has reinvented herself. She has transfixed the nation again and again, as often in searing episodes of scandal or setback as in triumph.
作为一名政治家的妻子、第一夫人、参议员、国务卿——已经两次参加总统大选的候选人——68岁的克林顿每一次重塑自己，都重新定义了美国女性在政坛的角色。她一次又一次地令这个国家瞠目结舌，无论是涉及灼人的丑闻和挫折，还是她赢得的胜利。
“She came on the public stage as someone who was a little different,” said Ann Lewis, a longtime adviser. “She attracted fascination, devotion and attacks — and the partisan attacks haven’t stopped.”
“在公共舞台上，她有点与众不同，”长期担任顾问的安·刘易斯(Ann Lewis)说。“她很容易吸引迷恋、忠诚和攻击——党派的攻击从来就没有停止过。”
“Even as first lady, it was ‘Who does she think she is?'” said Melanne Verveer, a close friend of Clinton’s who was her White House chief of staff.
“即使作为第一夫人，也有人说‘她以为自己是谁？’”梅兰妮·弗维尔(Melanne Verveer)说。她是克林顿的密友，也是克林顿任第一夫人时的幕僚长。
Clinton’s confidants say it is only fitting that, having overcome so many obstacles before, including some of her own making, she now faces an opponent so eager to go negative with her — and to refight the bare-knuckled brawls that have defined her career.
希拉里的亲信说，她已经克服了那么多的障碍，其中也包括她自己造成的一些障碍，现在她面对一个等不及要跟她拼下限的对手——再次赤手空拳来一场曾经定义她的政治生涯的恶斗。
It was with that same grit that Clinton picked herself up after a bruising defeat by Obama in 2008, when she assured a crowd of tearful female supporters, eight years ago to the day, that they had made 18 million cracks in “the highest, hardest glass ceiling.”
2008年惜败于奥巴马之后，克林顿正是凭借着同样的勇气，对一群泪流满面的女性支持者说，她们已经在“最高、最硬的玻璃天花板上”制造了1800万道裂缝，那一天距今正好八年整。
For 14 straight years, and 20 in all, Clinton has been named the woman Americans admire most, according to a yearly Gallup poll. But her campaign, and the controversy over her use of a private email server as secretary of state, have taken a toll: Her favorability and trustworthiness ratings have plummeted. And she is being caricatured, once more, as a calculating and inauthentic career politician: Lady Macbeth, now in her own play.
在每年的盖洛普民意调查中，克林顿连续14年、总共20次被选为美国人最欣赏的女性。但她参加总统竞选，以及她出任国务卿使用私人电邮服务器的争议，都给她带来了不利影响：人们对她的好感和信任度大幅下降。她再一次被讥讽为爱算计、虚伪的职业政客：麦克白夫人(Lady Macbeth)，现在是在自己的剧中。
In the same way, her longevity and fame are not undiluted assets: The baggage she brings as a consummate Democratic insider, pointed up most damagingly in the enormous sums she commanded as a paid speaker to Wall Street banks, has weighed Clinton down in an election cycle in which outsiders of one kind or another have had the wind at their backs.
同样，她的持续影响力和名气并不完全是优势：在这场各种类型的局外人获支持的选举中，克林顿作为资深民主党内部人士所背负的东西，对她是一种拖累。通过向华尔街银行家发表演讲获得大笔费用一事，以最具危害的形式突显了这种包袱。
If age-old antipathies to Clinton can be chalked up in part to Americans’ struggles to adjust to changing gender roles at home, at work and in politics, her history of political combat has also left scar tissue that, in part, defines the candidate she is: wide-eyed about the realities of Washington, but cautious and wary to a fault.
倘若对克林顿由来已久的厌恶，可以部分归咎于美国为适应家庭、职场和政坛不断变化的性别角色而进行的斗争，那么她在政治斗争中留下的伤疤，在一定程度上也定义了她是一个什么样的候选人：对华盛顿的现实充满好奇，但行事谨慎，唯恐出错。
Her prolonged contest with Sanders, whose campaign was not widely expected to survive the first few nominating contests, laid bare the cost of that restraint, both in style and substance.
她与桑德斯之间的漫长争夺，暴露了这种克制，无论是在形式上还是本质上。外界原本普遍认为，桑德斯的竞选撑不过开始的几场提名选举。
At a time when voters have gravitated to Trump’s unchecked impulsiveness and Sanders’ unabashed idealism, Clinton has displayed little of either.
当选民被特朗普不加控制的意气用事和桑德斯毫不掩饰的理想主义吸引时，克林顿几乎没有表现出这两样中的任何一样。
“This is not an incremental, cautious election, and being cautious is not her friend,” said Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster.
“这不是一场循序渐进、小心谨慎的选举，谨慎行事对她不利，”民主党的民调工作人员安娜·格林伯格(Anna Greenberg)说。
“Both primaries exposed the depth of anger and frustration and disgust,” Greenberg added. “She has had to, and will have to, adjust to it.”
“两场初选都暴露出了深深的愤怒、不满和厌恶，”格林伯格接着说。“她现在和将来都必须适应。”
For 14 months, Clinton’s campaign has been out of step with younger voters and with swathes of an angry electorate that has demanded more than the competence and hard work she promised to bring to the presidency.
14个月来，克林顿的竞选在年轻选民以及许多情绪激愤的选民阶层面前有些格格不入，她的能力以及她所承诺的努力并没有让他们满足，他们想要更多。
Her difficulties with those voters could be a warning sign.
她在争取这些选民时遇到的困难，也许是一个警示。
It has not helped that her campaign has cycled through a half-dozen slogans, from championing “everyday Americans” to “fighting for us,” “breaking down barriers,” and, most recently, “stronger together” — playing on Trump’s more divisive remarks about Mexicans, Muslims and other groups.
她的竞选团队利用特朗普有关墨西哥人、穆斯林和其他族群的争议言论，已经轮番打出六个口号，从支持“普通美国人”到“为我们而战”、“打破障碍”和距今最近的“团结起来更强大”，这一点对她也不利。
In a year in which Sanders has demonized Wall Street and Trump has disparaged immigrants, as they’ve vowed to reverse job losses and economic malaise, Clinton has run on a flinty practicality.
这一年里，桑德斯妖魔化华尔街，特朗普贬低移民，两人都发誓要扭转就业岗位减少和经济不景气的局势，而克林顿的竞选纲领却实际到了极致。
The most telling promise she has made is that she will not overpromise.
她做出的最能反映真实情况的承诺是，她不会过度承诺。
“We don’t need any more of that,” she has told voters.
“我们不需要再听到那些过度的承诺，”她对选民说。
But what she has lacked in rhetorical brio, she has made up for by listening to people’s problems and prescribing specific solutions. She has shed tears in conversations with a man whose mother had Alzheimer’s and a woman who lost a child to a gun accident.
然而，她在言辞上的乏力，通过倾听民众的问题并给出具体解决办法的方式得到了弥补。在与一名母亲罹患阿尔茨海默氏症的男子和一名在枪击事件中失去孩子的母亲交谈时，克林顿潸然泪下。
And she has shown a vulnerability she did not reveal in 2008, when she campaigned as a strong would-be commander in chief, seeking to neutralize any doubts about whether she was tough enough for the Oval Office.
此外，她还表现出了2008年竞选时未显露出来的脆弱。当年竞选时，她以未来的强大统帅的形象世人，想要消除有关她是否足够强硬，可以入主椭圆形办公室的一切疑问。
“I am not a natural politician, in case you haven’t noticed, like my husband or President Obama,” Clinton said in one of her debates with Sanders, a bracingly honest statement.
“也许有人还没发现，我不像我丈夫或奥巴马总统，不是天生的从政者，”克林顿在与桑德斯的一场辩论中说。这句话坦率得令人振奋。
“People are so undecided about how they feel about female leadership, and it’s something people really struggle with,” said Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y. “The ambiguity about Hillary is outside of her. It comes from people’s own perspectives.”
“人们对于自己对女性领导人的看法非常犹豫，是真的在纠结，”纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten Gillibrand)说。“对希拉里态度不确定和她本身无关，它来自人们自己的视角。”
Attitudes about female leadership eventually may change, of course. And in talking to reporters Monday, hours before reports that she had clinched the nomination, Clinton looked way past November to a time when future female presidential candidates may not require quite so much durability and grit to have a shot at the White House.
当然，对女性领导人的态度可能最终会改变。周一接受记者采访时，克林顿畅想的不是11月，而是在那之后，女性总统候选人可能无需这么坚韧、勇敢，就有机会争取入主白宫的未来。几小时后，便有报道称她获得了民主党的提名。
“It’s predominantly women and girls, but not exclusively — men bring their daughters to meet me and tell me that they are supporting me because of their daughters,” Clinton said. “And I do think it will make a very big difference for a father or a mother to be able to look at their daughter just like they can look at their son and say, ‘You can be anything you want to be in this country, including president of the United States.'”
“主要是妇女和女孩，但也不全是，有男人带着他们的女儿来见我，告诉我他们是因为女儿才支持我，”克林顿说。“我的确认为，如果父母能够像看待儿子那样看待女儿，并对她们说‘在这个国家，你可以成为你想成为的任何人，包括美国总统’，情况将大不一样。”