ZHYTOMYR, Ukraine — The North Korean spy, posing as a member of his country’s trade delegation in Belarus, thought he was photographing a secret scientific report on missile technology as he snapped away with a small camera in a dingy garage in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro, the home of Ukraine’s Soviet-era rocket industry.
乌克兰日托米尔——在乌克兰苏联时代的火箭工业基地第聂伯罗市，一名朝鲜间谍假扮成朝鲜在白俄罗斯的贸易代表团成员，在一个昏暗肮脏的车库里用小型相机拍照。他以为自己拍到的是一份有关导弹技术的秘密科学报告。
But the report he took pictures of was a fake, part of a sting operation mounted by Ukraine’s security service to prevent the leak of missile secrets, and now the spy, 56-year-old Ri Tae-gil, is in prison convicted of espionage. He sleeps on the bottom bunk in a cell shared with eight Ukrainian inmates, four of them convicted murderers.
但被他拍到的那份报告是假的，是乌克兰安全机构为防止导弹机密泄露而进行的一场诱捕行动的一部分。现在，这名56岁的间谍李泰吉（Ri Tae-gil，音）因间谍罪在狱中服刑。他睡在下铺，同监室还有另外八名乌克兰罪犯，其中四人是已定罪的杀人犯。
His July 2011 arrest in eastern Ukraine along with a fellow North Korean spy, which was first reported earlier this month by CNN, shows the extent to which Pyongyang has scoured the world for foreign technology to reinvigorate what had been a faltering program to develop long-range missiles.
2011年7月，他和另一名朝鲜间谍一起在乌克兰东部被捕。CNN本月早些时候率先报道了此事。此事显露出了平壤在全世界搜寻外国技术，企图重振原本困难重重的远程导弹发展计划的力度。
Ri and his partner, Ryu Song-chol, 46, were arrested just a few days before North Korea’s then leader, Kim Jong-il, announced during a visit to Russia that Pyongyang was considering a moratorium on missile production and nuclear weapons testing. The moratorium never came about.
李泰吉和46岁的同伙刘松哲（Ryu Song-chol，音）被捕几天后，朝鲜时任领导人金正日(Kim Jong-il)便在访问俄罗斯期间宣布，平壤正在考虑暂停导弹制造和核武器试验。但暂停从来没有兑现。
Instead, following Kim’s death in December 2011 and the ascent to power of his son Kim Jong-un, Pyongyang ramped up both its nuclear and missile programs. In July this year, North Korea for the first time launched missiles that experts said were capable of hitting the United States.
在金正日2011年12月去世，其子金正恩(Kim Jong-un)上台后，平壤反而加快了核武器和导弹计划。今年7月，朝鲜首次试射据专家称能够打到美国的导弹。
While speaking good Russian, which is widely spoken in Ukraine, Ri does not talk much, his cellmates said, but he does watch a lot of television, particularly reports on the accelerating progress of a North Korean missile program that he had tried in vain to serve. Instead of prized secrets, he received an eight-year prison term for espionage.
狱友称，尽管会说流利的俄语——在乌克兰，俄语使用广泛——但李泰吉不怎么说话，不过的确会看很多电视，尤其是关于他曾试图为之服务却白费功夫的朝鲜导弹计划进展不断加快的报道。他得到的不是宝贵的机密，而是因间谍罪获判的八年刑期。
His fourth floor cell at the No. 8 Prison in Zhytomyr, a hulking brick building built during the reign of Russia’s last czar, has cable TV. A brick wall in the courtyard below offers a grim reminder of less accommodating times: It is pockmarked with bullet holes left by Stalin’s secret police, the NKVD, later renamed the KGB, which used the spot to execute prisoners.
他的监室位于日托米尔第八监狱(No. 8 Prison in Zhytomyr)的四楼。这是一栋庞大的砖砌建筑，建于俄罗斯最后一位沙皇统治期间，里面有有线电视。下面院子里的一堵阴森的砖墙，让人想起了不那么友好的时代：上面麻麻点点都是斯大林时代的秘密警察内务人民委员部(NKVD)——后更名为克格勃(KGB)——在这里处决犯人时留下的弹孔。
Asked in an interview whether he felt pride at North Korea’s recent string of successful launches, Ri, who has a family back in Pyongyang, blanched and said he did not want to talk about rockets.
在采访中被问到是否为朝鲜最近一连串成功的试射感到骄傲时，家人仍在平壤的李泰吉脸色发白，说他不想讨论火箭。
Apparently eager to counter a widespread belief that North Korea had made such fast progress by stealing foreign technology, he said that his country “has had good rockets for more than 20 years” and also very good engineers.
他似乎迫切地想要反驳一个普遍的观点，即朝鲜是通过盗取外国的科学技术才取得这么快的进步的，称他的国家“20多年前就有性能不俗的火箭”和非常优秀的工程师了。
Denis Chernyshov, Ukraine’s deputy minister of justice, described Ri and Ryu as “very well trained. They are tough guys, real spies,” he said.
乌克兰司法部副部长丹尼斯·切尔内绍夫(Denis Chernyshov)称李泰吉和刘松哲“受过良好的训练，很顽固，是货真价实的间谍”。
He noted that, despite six years of detention, they had never written or received letters from family or friends. “They live in a total vacuum,” he said.
他指出，尽管被关押六年，但他们从来没和家人或朋友通过信。“他们完全活在真空中，”他说。
After a string of failed tests with an intermediate range missile, Musudan, that had been the target of U.S. sabotage, North Korea last year suddenly and mysteriously found success. It began with the rollout of a new missile in September that not only worked but also demonstrated a capability to travel ever further distances in a series of tests since then. In July, Pyongyang launched a missile capable of reaching the United States.
朝鲜的中程导弹“舞水端”(Musudan)一直是美国破坏活动的目标。在经历了一连串的试射失败后，朝鲜去年突然神秘地取得了成功。9月，朝鲜开始推出一款新型导弹。这款导弹不仅能飞起来，还在其后的一系列试验中表现出有能力飞得更远。7月，平壤发射一枚能够抵达美国的导弹。
Seeking to explain North Korea’s mysterious success, some experts have pointed a finger at Ukraine, particularly the Yuzhmash rocket factory and its Yuzhnoye design bureau in Dnipro, the town where Ri and Ryu were arrested.
一些专家试图解释平壤神秘的成功。他们将其归咎于乌克兰，尤其是南方机械制造厂(Yuzhmash)的火箭厂和它设在第聂伯罗的南方设计局(Yuzhnoye)。李刘二人就是在第聂伯罗被捕的。
Ukraine has adamantly denied allowing leaks of missile technology, pointing to the arrest and conviction of the two spies as proof that the country is capable of combating North Koreans hunting for missile secrets. Ukrainian rockets mostly date to Soviet times but are still far more advanced than anything Pyongyang had until recently been able to produce.
乌克兰断然否认允许泄露导弹技术，并以逮捕并宣判两名间谍有罪为证，证明乌克兰有能力打击寻找导弹机密的朝鲜人。乌克兰的火箭大多可追溯至苏联时代，但在平壤的导弹技术最近出现突飞猛进之前，都远比它的导弹先进。
Ukraine is particularly sensitive to allegations that it has undermined nonproliferation efforts because it voluntarily gave up a nuclear arsenal it inherited from the Soviet Union. That surrender of power left it highly vulnerable to nuclear-armed Russia when Moscow annexed Crimea in March 2014.
乌克兰对其破坏了防扩散努力的指责尤为敏感，因为它曾自愿放弃了继承自苏联的核武库。弃权的做法导致乌克兰在莫斯科2014年3月吞并克里米亚后，极易受拥有核武器的俄罗斯的攻击。
Ukraine’s domestic intelligence agency, known as the SBU, says it has been tracking North Korean efforts to steal missile technology for years. In addition to arresting Ri and Ryu, Ukraine expelled two North Korean diplomats accredited in Moscow who were accused of trying to obtain Ukrainian secrets.
乌克兰国内情报机构SBU自称多年来一直在追踪朝鲜窃取导弹技术的活动。除了逮捕李刘二人外，乌克兰还将两名在莫斯科获得认可的朝鲜外交官驱逐出境。他们被控试图获取乌克兰的机密。
Ri and Ryu were caught red-handed taking photographs of what had been presented to them as a classified dissertation by a rocket scientist, S.A. Davidov, titled “Forecast methods of the performance capability of capillary intake devices in the fuel tanks of space vehicles.”
李刘二人在对火箭科学家S·A·达维多夫(S.A. Davidov)作为机密论文交给他们的东西拍照时，被抓个正着。那份文件名为《航天器燃油箱毛细管状吸入装置性能的预测方法》。
Mastery of such intake devices would have helped North Korean engineers ensure the steady, uninterrupted flow of fuel, a hurdle that can impede the construction of reliable rocket engines. The dissertation the North Korean pair were given to photograph, however, had been gutted of secret information and filled with useless technical details.
如果掌握了这种吸入装置，将有助于朝鲜工程师确保燃油流动的稳定和顺畅。这个障碍可能会阻碍制造出可靠的火箭发动机。然而，让两人拿去拍照的论文中，机密信息已被去除，充满了没用的技术细节。
Ri received the fake secrets from V.A. Plekhanov, an employee at Dnipro’s Yuzhnoye design bureau, whom the North Korean had first tried to suborn by appealing to him on ideological grounds as a communist before offering him about $1,000, the Ukrainian authorities said.
李泰吉是从供职于第聂伯罗南方设计局的V·A·普列汉诺夫(V.A. Plekhanov)处得到假机密的。乌克兰当局称，朝鲜先是试图从意识形态上吸引身为共产党员的普列汉诺夫，后来给了他大约1000美元（约合6600元人民币）。
Unbeknown to the North Koreans, Plekhanov alerted the SBU and a trap was set in a cluttered backstreet garage where he had agreed to hand over the missile secrets. The North Koreans were both seized, along with the camera they used to take photos of the documents.
李刘二人不知道的是，普列汉诺夫通知了SBU。在普列汉诺夫同意把导弹机密交给他们的那个环境脏乱偏僻的车库里，局已经设好了。李刘二人双双被抓，连同他们用来拍照的那部相机。
With Ri and Ryu now approaching the end of their prison terms — they are scheduled for release next September because their sentences were reduced by two days for every day served in pretrial detention — Ukraine is wondering what will happen to them next.
李刘二人的刑期即将结束，两人定于明年9月获释。由于审前羁押两天，判刑后可减刑两天。乌克兰好奇接下来他们身上会发生什么。
Neither man, according to their cellmates and prison officials, has expressed any eagerness to go back to North Korea, fearing what awaits them and their families. Ukrainian officials believe they may request political asylum in Ukraine or another country after their release, though neither has so far made a request to stay.
据狱友和监狱官员介绍，两人担心等着他们和家人的遭遇，都未对回朝鲜表现出任何迫切的心情。乌克兰官员认为，他们获释后也许会在乌克兰或其它国家请求政治庇护，不过截至目前，两人均未请求留下来。