For the Republican Party, Mr. Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was once purely a villain. He found little sympathy with conservatives after he leaked American military secrets from Iraq, published purloined diplomatic cables that could have gotten American sources killed and sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, fleeing charges of rape.
对于共和党而言，维基解密的创始人阿桑奇(Assange)曾经是个坏蛋。他泄露了美国在伊拉克的军事秘密，公开了窃取的可能导致美国线人被杀的外交电报之后，为了逃避强奸罪名，又在厄瓜多尔伦敦大使馆寻求庇护——几乎没有保守派同情他的这种遭遇。
But now, Mr. Trump appears to be siding with Mr. Assange over the conclusions of America’s intelligence services.
但现在，对于美国情报部门的结论，特朗普似乎站到了阿桑奇这边。
Mr. Assange appeared on Fox News on Tuesday night with Sean Hannity, one of Mr. Trump’s biggest news media boosters, to declare once again that the Russians were not the source of the purloined emails that WikiLeaks released from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta.
本周二晚，阿桑奇和特朗普最重要的新闻媒体宣传人之一肖恩·汉尼提(Sean Hannity)出现在福克斯新闻(Fox News)上，他再次表示，维基解密发布的一些被盗电邮并不是俄罗斯人提供的，这些电邮属于民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)以及希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选主席约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)的个人帐号。
Mr. Trump followed that appearance with a series of Twitter posts on Wednesday that appeared to be preparing his followers for battle once more information on intelligence findings was released, most likely by Thursday.
特朗普周三在Twitter上发了一系列帖子，似乎是在让他的粉丝做好迎战准备，因为很有可能在周四会有更多的情报调查结果公布。
There were actually two separate hackings that the Obama administration has said came from Russian intelligence — with “100 percent” certainty.
奥巴马政府“100%”地肯定，有两起黑客行为来自俄罗斯情报机构。
As he has previously, Mr. Assange said: “Our source is not the Russian government. It is not state parties.” But Mr. Assange has often said that the organization does not always know the identity of its sources. It is highly unlikely that anyone approaching WikiLeaks with the emails obtained by Russian government hacking would acknowledge the source, so it is likely that Mr. Assange cannot be sure of the origin of the emails.
阿桑奇重申：“我们的消息来源不是俄罗斯政府。不是它。”但阿桑奇经常说，该组织并不总是知道线人的身份。把俄罗斯政府盗取的电邮提供给维基解密的人，基本不可能承认真正的消息来源是谁，所以很有可能阿桑奇也不确定是谁提供的电邮。
Mr. Assange and Mr. Hannity did not address that, in addition to WikiLeaks, the leaked Democratic material was published by two mysterious websites, DCLeaks.com and a blog written by someone called Guccifer 2.0. American intelligence agencies say they believe both were created by Russian agents.
阿桑奇和汉尼提没有提到的是，除了维基解密，两个神秘的网站也发布了泄漏的民主党资料，一个是DCLeaks.com，另一个是名叫Guccifer2.0的博客。美国情报机构说，他们认为这两个网站都是由俄罗斯特工建立的。
In addition to American intelligence agencies, most private researchers also say they believe that the D.N.C. and Podesta hackings were carried out on orders of Russian government officials, though a few skeptics say they believe the case is unproven by the evidence made public. Mr. Assange’s statement is unlikely to change that conclusion.
除了美国情报机构，大多数私人研究者也表示，他们认为民主党全国委员会和波德斯塔电邮被盗是俄罗斯政府官员指使的，但也有少量怀疑者认为这种说法没有公开的证据支持。阿桑奇的声明不太可能改变这一结论。
Intelligence officials will brief Congress on their Russia inquiry on Thursday, ahead of a briefing for Mr. Trump in New York on Friday. Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will hold the first hearing on the matter on Thursday as well.
情报官员将在周四向国会通报俄罗斯调查的结果，周五则会到纽约向特朗普通报情况。亚利桑那州共和党参议员、参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)主席约翰‧麦凯恩(John McCain)将于周四举行第一次听证会。
As for that “terrible” information mentioned by Mr. Trump, the CNN commentator Donna Brazile did send Mr. Podesta an email ahead of a Democratic presidential debate in Flint, Mich., tipping him off that a woman in the audience would ask why the government was not doing more to help clean the city’s lead-contaminated water supply. That was, in fact, reported widely and often, here and here and here and here, among other places.
至于特朗普提到的那个“可怕的”消息，即CNN评论员唐娜·布拉吉尔(Donna Brazile)在密歇根州弗林特的民主党总统辩论之前，发送了一封电邮给波德斯塔，告诉他一个观众中的女人会提这样一个问题：为什么政府没有做更多的工作来帮助清洁该市被铅污染的供水系统。实际上，这件事获得了广泛而经常的报道，在这里、这里、这里和这里以及其他地方都提到过。
And that was hardly an unexpected query — for Mrs. Clinton or for her rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. It did cause Ms. Brazile to lose her CNN post.
这对希拉里·克林顿或她的对手、佛蒙特州的伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)参议员来说，并不是一个出乎意料的问题。此事的确导致布拉吉尔丢掉了她在CNN的工作。
The president-elect appears to be getting a jump on the news.
候任总统似乎在调查结果公布这件事上抢占了先机。