MANAUS, Brazil — The most challenging aspect of building a World Cup soccer stadium in the middle of the Amazon is debatable. 
巴西马瑙斯——在亚马孙雨林中央建一座世界杯(World Cup)球场，最大的挑战是什么呢？这个问题有待讨论。
Some might say it is figuring out how to get oversize cranes and hundreds of tons of stainless steel and concrete into a city surrounded by a rain forest that stretches for about 2.1 million square miles. Others might mention the need to put most of those materials together before the rainy season floods the entire construction site. Then, of course, there are those who might point to the need to install the special chairs.
一些人会说，是想方设法把硕大的起重机及成百上千吨的不锈钢和混凝土运入被雨林包围的马瑙斯，要知道，雨林绵延了约210万平方英里（约合540万平方公里）。另一些人会提到，是必须在雨季到来洪水淹没整个工地之前把这些材料变成建筑物。然后，当然还有人会指出，是必须安装特殊的座椅。
Yes, the chairs. It may seem like a small concern — at least compared with the whole everything-being-flooded possibility — but one of the less obvious issues that comes with building a stadium in the jungle is what the searing equatorial sunlight here can do to plastic.
是的，座椅。看起来，这或许是个小问题，起码跟大水淹了整个工地的可能性相比不算大事。可是，在雨林中建造球场的种种不那么显眼的问题当中，有一项是：赤道的炙热阳光对塑料造成损害。
The seats are supposed to be varying shades of yellow and orange. “But if we don’t use the right kind of material,” said Miguel Capobiango Neto, the coordinator of the construction project, “then the sun will melt the paint away. The seats will just turn white.”
座椅本应是黄橙色系，但建设项目协调人米格尔·卡波比安戈·内图(Miguel Capobiango Neto)说，“如果不采用适当的材料，阳光会让颜料融化，座椅就会变成白色。”
Neto sighed. “The Brazilian press compares us a lot to other stadium constructions,” he said through an interpreter. “There is no comparison. There is nothing like this.”
内图叹了口气，通过口译员接受采访，“巴西媒体老是把我们跟其他球场的建设拿来比较。其实根本没法比，这里是独一无二的。”
The World Cup has never staged games in a rain forest, much less in the middle of the Amazon. But that is the plan for next summer, an ambition that invites plenty of hurdles. What other major stadium project had to drain an “unwelcome tributary of the French River,” as Neto put it, that ran through its foundation? What other builder has to spend multiple days on each joint that is soldered because the stifling humidity can cause steel to buckle? What other job has to accommodate one of the most ecologically sensitive regions in the world?
世界杯比赛从未在雨林中进行，更别提在亚马孙的中间，但明年夏天的计划正是如此。这样的雄心带来了诸多麻烦。就如内图所说的，难道还有别的大型体育场计划需要抽干流过地基的一条“大河的恼人支流？”难道还有别的建筑商需要在每个焊接点上花几天时间，因为闷热潮湿的空气会让钢铁变形？难道还有别的工作需要迁就世界上生态最脆弱的地区之一？
Then, of course, there are the concerns about how many more millions will be spent on cost overruns, not to mention what will happen to the stadium once the four World Cup games scheduled to be played here next year are completed. (One recent proposal suggested that the stadium could be converted to a prison.)
无疑，也有关于还需要超支多少钱的问题，更别提明年定于此处进行的四场世界杯比赛过后，球场未来的计划了。（最近提出的一项建议是，可以将球场改造成监狱。）
Despite having as many as 1,400 employees, the project has been bogged down by the delays, cost increases and design changes that come with seemingly every significant piece of Brazilian infrastructure. In a polite but pointed statement, Hubert Nienhoff, the chief executive of gmp-Architekten, the German firm that designed the stadium, said that although the “precise planning and implementation that Germans are credited with” might be respected in Brazil, they are “not always compatible with the existing pragmatic day-to-day business” in the country.
虽然拥有多达1400名员工，项目还是陷入了巴西每项重大基础设施建设中看似必不可少的各种拖延、超支，以及设计方案的变更。设计球场的德国建筑师事务所冯格康玛戈(gmp-Architekten)的首席执行官胡贝特·尼恩霍夫(Hubert Nienhoff)发表了一份礼貌但语中带刺的声明。文中称，尽管“德国人广受赞誉的精准规划与执行”或许在巴西受到了推崇，但“并不总是与”该国“现行的实际日常运作相匹配”。
His point was unmistakable. Left unsaid was this: The progress in Manaus was so sluggish that at one point late last year, Jérôme Valcke, the secretary general of soccer’s governing body, FIFA, said it was possible that games would not be played in the city if the stadium’s deadlines were not met.
他的观点确凿无疑。未尽之言是：马瑙斯的进展实在是太过缓慢，以致于在去年底，管理足球运动的国际足球联合会(FIFA)的秘书长杰罗姆·瓦尔克(Jérôme Valcke)称，假如场馆不能按期完工，也可能不在这里进行比赛。
That threat, according to local officials, prompted a construction surge, and with it a ballooning budget. The stadium was supposed to cost about 500 million reais (about $227 million) and be completed by July; now it will cost at least 600 million reais and is scheduled to be finished by December, Neto said. As of the end of August, about 78 percent of the stadium was complete, according to FIFA, making the target date at least theoretically feasible.
地方官员表示，这样的威胁促使工程进度猛然加快，预算也随之激增。球场原本的预算约为5亿雷亚尔（约合14亿元人民币），完工日期应为今年7月；但内图表示，目前的估计是至少6亿雷亚尔，定于12月完工。国际足联的数据显示，截止到8月底，工程进度完成了78%，因此计划中的完工日期至少在理论上可行。
“The rainy season starts at the end of November,” Neto said. “Because of that, we must really rush to have the ceiling ready by then.”
内图说，“雨季在11月底开始。所以，我们必须抓紧时间赶在这之前建好顶棚。”
He was not joking; from December through March, this city generally receives as much as 45 inches of rain, almost twice as much as what Johannesburg, which hosted games during the 2010 World Cup, receives all year.
他可不是在开玩笑。12月到3月，马瑙斯一般会有多达45英寸（约合1100毫米）的降水，几乎是主办了2010年世界杯的南非约翰内斯堡全年降水量的两倍。
Of course, there are some who believe the four World Cup games set for Manaus should not be played here anyway. Critics of the stadium in Manaus, as well as similar projects in Brasilia and in Cuiaba, note the lack of top-division soccer teams in those cities and call the expensive stadiums white elephants. 
一定还有些人认为，马瑙斯的四场世界杯比赛根本就不该在此举办。批评在马瑙斯、巴西利亚和库亚巴建造体育场的人士指出，这几个城市根本没有顶级足球赛事的球队。他们说这些昂贵的球场“华而不实”。
Organizers challenge that thinking, highlighting the stadium’s multipurpose design and saying there are a number of options for post-World Cup events. Environmentally friendly features like harvesting rainwater to use in the stadium’s toilets make the stadium sustainable, the designers said, and concerts and other exhibitions are among the possibilities raised for future use.
组织者反对这种想法，他们强调，体育场采用了多功能设计，世界杯后的活动也有多种选择。设计者则称，球场具备一些环境友好的特色，比如采集雨水来冲洗场内的卫生间，因而是可持续的。而且，可能的未来用途中包含了音乐会及各种展会活动。
Local officials are also quick to note the exposure the World Cup will bring to the Amazon region, as Manaus is often used by tourists solely as a starting (or returning) point for forays into the rain forest. 
当地的官员也很快指出，世界杯将给亚马孙地区带来曝光度，而游客目前往往仅把马瑙斯视为进入雨林探险的起点（或返回点）。
The glamour of Rio de Janeiro and the bustle of São Paulo are about 1,700 miles to the south. This is the Amazon. There are jungle lodges and electrical storms in this city. But if the flooding is avoided — and the special chairs arrive on time — there will be soccer here next summer, too.
里约热内卢的光彩与圣保罗的繁华都在南面1700英里（约合2700公里）开外。这里是亚马孙。马瑙斯拥有的是丛林小屋和雷电交加的暴风雨。不过，只要避免发大水，特殊的座椅又能按时到达，明年夏天，这里也会有足球。