Heavy knitwear and furry bits will be trickling into stores any day now, but here are some ways to get a jump on the fall season without gasping for air.
厚重的毛衣和毛皮配饰随时会在店铺里冒出来，不过这里介绍一些方法，能让你快速融入秋季，又不会感到燥热。
Think Boa, but in Silk
考虑一下围巾，不过得是丝绸的
How to Wear
如何佩戴
In the Chloé fall collection, chiffon dresses reminiscent of Stevie Nicks and military-style greatcoats were shown with a thin black scarf wrapped a couple of times around the neck and hanging long. Skinny scarves first caught our eye on the Saint Laurent rock ’n’ roll runways, and they’re practically a signature of Kate Moss and Carine Roitfeld, who wore one with almost every ensemble at the recent couture shows in Paris (below). Wear one of these now with a billowy dress or a T-shirt and jeans. Come fall, you’ll break it out again with your best peacoat.
寇依(Chloé)秋季系列里的雪纺连衣裙让人想起史蒂维·尼克斯(Stevie Nicks)，军装大衣搭配窄窄的黑围巾，绕着脖子缠了几圈，长长地垂下来。窄围巾首次引起大家的注意是在圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)的摇滚秀台上。实际上，这种围巾是凯特·莫斯(Kate Moss)和卡琳·鲁瓦费尔德(Carine Roitfeld)的一个标志。在前不久的巴黎高级定制时装秀上，鲁瓦费尔德的几乎每款造型都搭配了围巾。夏秋交汇之际，用这样的围巾搭配飘逸的连衣裙或T恤牛仔裤。等秋季真正来临时，搭上最好的双排扣厚呢短外套，你就又能脱颖而出了。
M. Martin: Remember It
M. Martin：该记住的品牌
Debut
首次亮相
M. Martin, a new label by Alex Gilbert Gaines, a founder of Paper Denim & Cloth, and her friend Jennifer Noyes, who worked as the director of women’s ready-to-wear at Prada USA, draws on the elegantly streamlined look of American sportswear giants like Bonnie Cashin and Calvin Klein. Each garment could be called a modern staple, but with a meticulous attention to detail. A white poplin shirt has burgundy piping at the cuffs. The wrap skirt here has a single pocket at the hip. The denim dress, with selvage trim, has the just-right relaxed fit that will also make it a great fall item for layering as a jacket, denim on denim.
M. Martin是亚历克斯·吉尔伯特·盖恩斯(Alex Gilbert Gaines)和朋友詹妮弗·诺伊斯(Jennifer Noyes)创立的新品牌。盖恩斯是Paper Denim & Cloth的创始人之一，诺伊斯则是普拉达(Prada)美国分公司的女子成衣总监。M. Martin吸取了Bonnie Cashin和卡尔文·克莱恩(Calvin Klein)等美式休闲装巨头的简洁优雅造型。每件衣服都可以称为现代基本款，但又有着对细节一丝不苟的关注。白色府绸衬衫的袖口上镶着酒红色滚边，裹裙式半身裙在胯部设计了一个口袋。加镶边的牛仔连衣裙有一种恰到好处的休闲感，也特别适合在秋季当外套——穿牛仔裤外面的牛仔外套。
First Look
初见
Mademoiselle Mary Jane
玛丽·简小姐(Mary Jane)
The French footwear label Carel is now available for the first time in the United States, at Opening Ceremony. The company, founded in 1952, is known for its very Parisian aesthetic (read: chic, simple, timeless). These sensibly heeled Mary Janes, which come in black, red and white patent leather, can help you pull off that effortlessly cool French-girl look, now straight through holiday party season.
法国鞋履品牌Carel首次登陆美国，能在Opening Ceremony的店铺里找到。Carel始创于1952年，以典型的巴黎审美闻名（时髦，简单，永不过时）。这些鞋跟高度适中的玛丽·简鞋子由漆皮做成，有黑、红、白三色，能帮你轻松实现法国酷女孩的造型，从现在一直到年末的假日派对季。
Crocodile Laughter
鳄鱼的笑声
Trappings
饰品
In Miuccia Prada’s wonderfully cheeky Miu Miu fall collection, she deployed imitation crocodile, in colors too artificial to be found in nature, for glossy shifts, miniskirts and a group of handbags. Any one of the bags will deliver a loud textural pop regardless of season.
在她精彩大胆的Miu Miu秋季系列中，缪西娅·普拉达(Miuccia Prada)用仿鳄鱼皮打造了闪亮的直筒连衣裙、超短裙和一组手包。从皮料的色彩，就一眼能看出它们是人造的，因为那种颜色的鳄鱼皮在自然界中可找不到。不管在什么季节，其中任何一款手包都会惹人注目。