SARASOTA, Fla. — In 1971, Elling O. Eide was a promising young scholar of Chinese poetry, working on his Ph.D. thesis and teaching at the University of Illinois. Then came a letter that set in motion the creation of either a wonder or a folly: a great library of Chinese literature housed amid the Spanish moss and alligator ponds of Florida’s gulf coast.
佛罗里达州萨拉索塔——1971年时，艾利·O·艾德(Elling O. Eide)是一位年轻的、前途光明的中国诗歌学者，他在伊利诺伊大学一边写博士论文，一边教书。这时来了一封信，为一个奇迹，或者是一部荒唐剧拉开了序幕：在佛罗里达州墨西哥湾沿岸，在西班牙苔藓和鳄鱼出没的池塘之间，建起了一个出色的中国文学藏书宝库。
The newly opened library is a testament to one man’s vision — tunnel vision, some might say — of bringing a sliver of the academy to this quiet area of beaches, bars and subdivisions. Instead of hiring connoisseurs and agents to buy up recognizable treasures, he worked mostly alone, pursuing a passion that few neighbors were aware of until after his death five years ago.
这个新开的图书馆证明了一个人的愿景——一些人可能会说是钻牛角尖——他要给这片拥有海滩、酒吧和住宅小区的安宁地区带来一些学术气息。他没有雇用鉴赏家和代理人购买那些有识别度的收藏，大多数时候都是独自工作，极少有邻居知道他对这件事的热情，直到他在五年前去世。
In some ways, the main actor is the property itself. Mr. Eide’s maternal grandfather bought it in 1935 and summoned his daughter and son-in-law from Chicago to look after him. Mr. Eide was born there that year but left to attend Harvard, serve in the Marines, study in Taiwan and pursue a career in Chinese studies.
从某些方面来说，主角就是这处物业本身。艾德的外祖父在1935年买下了它，把女儿和女婿从芝加哥召回那里照顾他。艾德当年正是在这里出生，长大后，他离开这里去哈佛读书，到海军陆战队服役，去台湾学习，谋求一个进行中国研究的职业生涯。
But he couldn’t escape the property’s pull. In 1968, his parents inherited the 92-acre tract but found it hard to maintain, with its overgrowth and decrepit buildings and rare trees that his grandfather had bought. In 1972, it was their turn to summon their child to Sarasota to help. Mr. Eide took a two-year leave from academia, thinking he could put the property in order, help his parents build a retirement house and get back to his world of scholarship.
但他逃不开这处物业的引力。1968年，他的父母继承了这块92英亩（约合15公顷）的土地，但发现很难维护它，这里有庞大、破旧的建筑，还有外祖父买来的珍稀树木。1972年的时候，轮到他们把孩子叫回萨拉索塔(Sarasota)了。艾德请了两年的假，觉得用这段时间就可以把物业整理清楚，帮助父母修建一所退休后住的房屋，然后再回到自己的学术界。
But the new house was more work than he expected. His parents became ill. The I.R.S. began an audit. Slowly, family members and friends say, Mr. Eide slid into depression. His father died in 1978, and his mother five years later. By then, the once-young scholar was 48, too old to restart his career.
但修建新房子的工作量比他预期的大。父母生病了。国税局开始进行审计。家人和朋友说，慢慢地，艾德陷入了抑郁。他的父亲在1978年撒手人寰，母亲在5年后过世。那时，这位曾经年轻的学者已经48岁，年龄太大，无法重新开始他的职业生涯了。
Instead, he decided to bring the world of Sinology to Sarasota. Already a voracious collector, he doubled down on his passion, buying entire collections of academic journals and books. His research specialty had been China’s most famous poet, Li Po, who lived during the Tang dynasty of the seventh to 10th centuries, often called China’s greatest. That dynasty became his focus. He amassed 75,000 volumes, including 50,000 in Chinese: one of the largest private Chinese-language libraries in the world, and larger than many well-known universities’ Chinese collections.
结果，他决定把汉学世界带到萨拉索塔。他本来就已经是一名狂热的收藏家，这时他又加倍进行投入，购买了大量学术期刊和书籍。他的研究方向是中国最著名的诗人李白。李白生活在7至10世纪的唐朝，经常被称为中国最伟大的诗人。那个朝代成了他的焦点。他收集了7.5万册书籍，其中包括5万册中文书籍：这里成为了世界上最大的私立中文图书馆之一，比很多知名大学的中文藏书还多。
The project reflected what friends and relatives call Mr. Eide’s sometimes manic personality. A onetime fitness buff with a dark brown beard, he became a paunchy recluse. He wore old clothes, chain-smoked Winstons and drove a beat-up Volkswagen bus. He poured his efforts into acquisitions but often neglected the details of cataloging and housing the books.
这个项目反映了朋友和亲戚所说的艾德有时很狂热的个性。他曾经健壮有型，留着深棕色的胡子，现在他变成了一个大腹便便的隐士。穿着旧衣服，一根接着一根地抽温斯顿牌香烟，开着一辆破旧的大众牌面包车。他把精力放在买书上，常常忽视编目和保管这些书的细节。
Instead, his treasures sprawled across the property like shipwrecked chests. Some landed in wooden sheds, others in old shotgun shacks, and many in his ramshackle house. All the buildings were stacked floor to ceiling. He kept air-conditioners running to prevent rot, but the space was unusable for any visitor.
他的宝藏就像遭遇海难的箱子，分散在这片物业的各个地方。一些书在木棚里，一些在老旧的盒式建筑里，还有很多在他摇摇欲坠的住处。所有建筑，书都从地板堆到了天花板。他让空调持续运转，以防它们腐烂，但这里不适合接待任何访客。
“When it was in good shape, it was an estate with peacocks flying and alligators lying around,” said Victor H. Mair, a professor of Chinese language and literature at the University of Pennsylvania and one of Mr. Eide’s oldest friends. “But his house was a big mess: books and papers everywhere. We worried that the collection would be ruined.”
宾夕法尼亚大学的中国语言及文学教授维克多·H·梅尔(Victor H. Mair)是艾德认识最久的老朋友之一，他说：“这个地方打理得好的时候，有孔雀在这里飞，周围还有短吻鳄。但他的房子里乱七八糟，哪儿都是书报。我们担心会毁了这批收藏。”
Part of the problem was financial. Mr. Eide dreamed of a proper library, but his income was mostly limited to rent from another tract of land, and further diluted by his generosity. He underwrote scholarly publications and conferences. He set up a hotline for scholars who needed material on the Tang dynasty, hiring an assistant from China who lived with his family on the property. He and the assistant would scour his collection and send the needed works around the country.
部分问题在于资金。艾德梦想有一个正式的图书馆，但他的收入主要来自于收取另一块土地的租金，由于他的慷慨大方，这笔钱也存不下来。他把钱花在学术出版物和会议上。他还为需要唐代资料的学者设立了一条热线，还聘请了一位来自中国的助理，和他的家人一起住在这个地方。他和助理从收藏中找到学者们需要的内容，然后把它们发往全美各地。
Most famously, he paid for a grand buffet reception at the annual meeting of the T’ang Studies Society. Though rarely present himself, he wanted the scholars to eat his favorite smoked sturgeon, enjoy an open bar and generally experience the sort of refined and elegant life that he associated with the Tang dynasty.
最出名的是，他会花钱为唐代研究协会(T’ang Studies Society)的年度会议举办盛大的自助餐。尽管他本人很少到场，但他希望学者能吃到他最喜欢的烟熏鲟鱼，享用免费酒水，体验他认为跟唐朝有关的那种精致优雅的生活。
“He was incredibly generous,” said Cynthia Chennault, a specialist in medieval Chinese literature at the University of Florida. “He loved to talk, discuss and help people out.”
“他出奇地慷慨，”在佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)研究中古中国文学的辛西娅·谢诺尔特(Cynthia Chennault)说。“他喜欢聊天，喜欢讨论和帮助别人。”
Mr. Eide’s goal was to pay for the library by selling some of his land. But he was stymied by Sarasota County officials, who balked at rezoning the largely pristine pine forest. He felt this was unfair: In previous decades, many neighbors had turned their forests and mangrove swamps into strip malls and condos. Why should he be victimized by the state’s newfound interest in the environment?
艾德原打算卖掉一些地，来解决图书馆的开支。但他受到了萨拉索塔县官员的阻挠，后者拒绝批准将这片基本保持原始状态的松树林用作他途。他觉得这不公平：在之前几十年里，许多邻居都把自己的森林和红树沼泽地便成了商业街和公寓。为什么他就得为政府在环境方面的新兴趣做出牺牲？
As popular as he was in Tang dynasty circles, he was seen in local politics as a crank. He railed against the county council, ran once for office as a Republican environmentalist and put up billboards along the highway that borders his property, copying the old Burma-Shave advertising campaigns that told punchy jokes in a series of rhyming signs. Punning off a local boat race, he wrote: “What do you call six / Sarasota County Commissioners in a rowboat? / The Sarasota Grand Prix.”
尽管在唐代研究圈子里十分受欢迎，但他在当地政客眼中是个怪人。他猛烈抨击县议会，曾以共和党环保人士的身份竞选公职，还在他家地产边上的高速公路沿线立起广告牌，学Burma-Shave剃须膏老广告那一套，用一系列押韵的标语开言简意赅的玩笑。他拿当地的划船比赛一语双关地写道：“你怎么称呼一只划艇里的六名萨拉索塔县长官？萨拉索塔大奖。”
But the delays ended up helping him. When he finally won approval to rezone 20 acres, it was 2005 and near the peak of the real estate bubble. He got $1 million an acre from developers who wanted to build a mixed-use project. He hired a local architect and began work on his library.
但拖延反倒帮了艾德。当他最终获批改换20英亩（约合8公顷）土地的用途时，时间已经到了2005年，接近房地产泡沫的顶峰。他以每英亩100万美元的价格将这些土地卖给了开发商，后者想建一个综合用途的项目。艾德雇了一名当地的建筑师，开始着手图书馆的事。
By then, though, his health was failing. In 2011, he had a series of strokes. He asked for help from his cousin Harold Mitchell, an insurance agent in Chicago who had been in awe of Mr. Eide since his childhood. Mr. Mitchell knew all the family stories about how Mr. Eide was an expert unicyclist who became a cheerleader at Harvard, biking along the sidelines of football games with a giant bone in his hand to stir up the crowd.
不过，那时候他的健康已经开始走下坡路。2011年，他数次中风。他向自己的表兄霍华德·米歇尔(Harold Mitchell)求助，后者在芝加哥当一名保险经纪，从小就十分敬佩艾德。米歇尔知道家族里有关艾德的所有故事，他知道艾德过去是一名独轮车手，在哈佛大学成为一名拉拉队队员后，曾手持一根巨大的骨头在橄榄球比赛的场外区域骑着车，煽动观众的情绪。
So Mr. Mitchell agreed to move down — the fourth in his family to be drawn into the property’s orbit. A genial dealmaker, he settled permitting issues and ironed out the countless details of building a large library and visitor center.
所以米歇尔同意回去——第四名被拉入这处物产的运行轨迹的家族成员。身为一名让人愉快的交易人，他解决了不少审批问题，搞定了建造一座大博物馆和游客中心的无数细节。
His eyesight deteriorating, Mr. Eide could hear the machines pounding the pilings into the earth but couldn’t see them. In 2012, with the building still a skeleton, he died. Mr. Mitchell became president of the Elling Eide Center, a registered charity whose trustees include Professors Mair and Chennault.
随着视力逐渐退化，艾德可以听到机器把地桩敲入地下的声音，但却看不见它们。2012年在这座建筑还是个框架的时候，他去世了。米歇尔成了注册慈善机构艾利-艾德中心(Elling Eide Center)的负责人，其理事包括梅尔和谢诺尔特教授。
Now 66, Mr. Mitchell has spent the past five years seeing the project to completion. The bright, airy building opened last autumn for the annual conference of the T’ang Studies Society.
现年66岁的米歇尔花了五年时间监督这个项目完成。去年秋天，这座宽敞明亮的建筑开门迎客，举办了唐代研究协会一年一度的会议。
But there is one obvious problem: What to do with a giant collection of Chinese-language books in a part of Florida with no university specializing in that field?
但那里有一个十分明显的问题：在佛罗里达一个没有专门研究中文的大学的地方，要这么一大批中文书干什么？
Mr. Eide once thought of donating the material to a university. But he wanted it to stay here, and the trustees say they think it can work.
艾德也考虑过把这些资料捐献给一所大学。但他还是希望能把它留在这里，理事们表示，他们觉得这行得通。
They are setting up a fellowship to help researchers travel to Sarasota and stay on the grounds. And with China’s rising place in the world, they hope that having a center like this makes some sort of sense.
他们正在设立一项奖学金，帮助研究人员前往萨拉索塔，在那里留下来。随着中国在世界上的地位逐渐提高，他们期待这样的一个中心能产生某种意义。
“I don’t like the way people say he was an eccentric,” Professor Chennault said. “That was China’s most important dynasty, and if you want to understand that country today, you have to understand that era. In the future, he might be seen as a visionary.”
“我不喜欢人们说他是个怪人，”谢诺尔特说。“那是中国最重要的朝代，如果你想理解这个国家的今天，就必须理解那个时代。在未来，他可能会被看作一个有远见的人。”