We just published a Conversation With Deb Weidenhamer, chief executive of Auction Systems Auctioneers & Appraisers, an 18-year-old auction company with $135 million in annual revenue. The company is based in Phoenix, but two years ago, Ms. Weidenhamer set up shop in Shanghai, where her auctions offer Western manufacturers an easy way to export their goods, or simply test demand and learn about pricing. In this portion of the interview, she talks about what it has been like doing business in China — why she studies Mandarin 15 hours every week, how she got “Chinafied” and how she can help other businesses get started there.
我们刚刚发表了与Auction Systems公司首席执行官德布·魏登哈默尔(Deb Weidenhamer)的一篇访谈，这是一家有18年历史的拍卖公司，年收入1.35亿美元（约合8.26亿元人民币）。这家公司总部位于菲尼克斯，但两年前，魏登哈默尔在上海开设了分支机构。在那里，她的拍卖业务为西方制造商提供了一条便捷通道，可以让它们出口商品，或者检验市场需求并了解定价。在下面这一部分采访中，她谈到了在中国做生意感觉如何，比如她为何每周花15个小时学习普通话、如何变得“中国化”，以及能怎样帮助其他企业在中国起步。
Q. Why are you in China?
问：你为什么去中国？
A. I am in China because I was looking for other opportunities that didn’t seem to exist in the U.S. anymore.
答：我去中国，是因为我当时正在寻找其他一些机会，美国好像已经没有那种机会了。
Q. Your initial thought was to open a satellite office and replicate over there what you’re doing here — sell goods already in China to the Chinese?
问：你最初的想法是设立一个卫星办公室，在那边复制在美国的做法，也就是把中国已有的商品卖给中国人？
A. Exactly. Except only sell new goods in China. Not used goods.
答：完全正确。不过是在中国销售新商品，而不是二手货。
Q. Why not used goods?
问：为什么不卖二手货？
A. There’s a huge stigma in China over used goods. They throw them away. It’s a very disposable country. Plus, a business liquidation would be a loss of face. You just close — maybe make a private, side deal to dispose of something.
答：在中国，用二手货是极大的耻辱，他们会把用过的东西扔掉。在这里用完即丢的现象非常普遍。而且，企业清算是丢脸的。你关张就好了，或许可以私下里达成附带协议，处理掉一些东西。
Q. How difficult was it to set up in China?
问：在中国开始做生意有多难？
A. It was a major project. To open an office, we had to have 18 different approvals from 18 different ministries in the government. Each took between 15 and 90 days. When we first started having auctions, we thought our biggest problem would be finding Chinese manufacturers to work with, figuring that would take more time than finding Chinese buyers. It was actually the reverse. There are auction houses in China, mainly for art, the finer things in life. But there really wasn’t an auction house in China that did consumer goods. Our first year in business there in 2011, we did about $500,000 in U.S. dollars. We’re projecting to do about $4.5 million this year. Of that, maybe 40 percent is selling Western goods into China.
答：这是个大工程。为了开设一个办公室，我们必须从18个不同的政府部门获得18份不同的批准文件。每一份文件都要耗时15到90天。刚开始举行拍卖时，我们以为最大的问题是找到能合作的中国制造商，认为这会比找中国买家花的时间更多。但事实却相反。中国有拍卖行，拍卖的主要是艺术品，是生活中那些精致的东西。但中国的确没有针对消费品的拍卖行。2011年是我们在中国开展业务的第一年，我们当时做到了50万美元，预计今年能做到450万美元。其中，或许会有40%来自把西方的商品卖到中国。
Q. How have you gotten the word out to, say, American or Danish bike manufacturers, that you can sell their models in China without putting them through lots of government red tape?
问：你是如何推广自己的，比如让美国或丹麦的自行车制造商知道，你们可以把它们的产品卖到中国，不用让它们应付政府的手续？
A. We work with U.S. Commercial Service, which is an arm of the Treasury Department, or we make presentations to various state economic export councils that talk to manufacturers looking for export opportunities. And we do this with other countries, too. We explain that auctions are an easy way for companies to test their products in China without having to burn through a lot of cash. For a company to independently consider exporting to China and find the correct distributor can be a quarter-million-dollar investment. That keeps a lot of businesses out of that game.
答：我们和财政部(Treasury Department)下属的美国商务服务局(U.S. Commercial Service)合作，或者向各个州的经济出口理事会介绍情况，它们会和那些寻找出口机会的制造商进行沟通。我们也在和其他国家这么做。我们会解释，拍卖是公司检验中国对自己产品的需求，却不用花大量现金打水漂的简单方法。对一家企业而言，考虑凭自己的力量向中国出口，并找到合适的经销商可能需要投入二十几万美元。这让很多企业都望而却步。
Q. Do you handle the social media in China?
问：你在中国会接触社交媒体吗？
A. We manage all of the social media internally. Social media in China is a challenge, and being a trendsetter in China is not the norm. Although most consumers strive to be thought of as cool, being one of the first followers on Weibo or WeChat is difficult. If a company goes out of business or has a bad customer service reputation, early adopters are concerned that such status will reflect poorly on them. In addition, many Chinese and Western companies buy followers so that new fans feel like they’ve joined a group of forward-thinking social media participants, but buying messages and advertising completely bombards the Chinese consumer. Successful social media strategies in China revolve around connecting with fans on other subjects rather than the business at hand, which is also consistent with the traditional Chinese custom of building relationships and not just breeding customers. For example, a cute photo of a puppy brings in thousands of comments and usually cycles back around to a conversation about auctions.
答：所有社交网络都是公司内部在管理。在中国，社交媒体是一个挑战，成为潮流设定者也并不是常规做法。尽管大多数消费者都努力想让别人认为自己很酷，但想让他们成为微博或微信上的第一批粉丝很难。因为如果一家公司倒闭了，或是客户服务口碑不好，早期的关注者会担心这种情况给自己带来不好的影响。此外，许多中国和西方企业都会花钱买粉丝，这样新粉丝会觉得自己置身一群思维超前的社交媒体参与者的行列，但是花钱发布产品信息和广告，会让中国消费者难以招架。在中国，社交媒体战略取得成功的核心是，通过其他主题而不是手头的业务与粉丝建立联系，这也符合中国培育关系而不是只向顾客推销的传统习俗。比如，一幅小狗的萌照会带来数千条评论，而且通常都绕回有关拍卖的对话。
Q. Could you speak any Mandarin when you arrived?
问：你来到中国时，会说普通话吗？
A. No. I work on Mandarin 15 hours a week, religiously. I have a tutor who’s actually in Canada, and I work over Skype. I’m very committed, but it’s an extremely challenging language. I certainly wouldn’t describe my level of Mandarin as fluent. When I do auctions I have someone onstage with me who speaks fluent Mandarin to read the product descriptions. I can say numbers in Mandarin, and I’ll switch between that and English. It’s very much how we do auctions in the Southwest, where we switch back and forth between English and Spanish.
答：不会。我每周花15个小时，十分认真地学普通话。我请了一个老师，这个教师实际上人在加拿大，通过Skype学习。我非常投入，可是，这是一种极富挑战性的语言。我肯定不能说，自己的普通话已经达到流利的水平。当我做拍卖时，会让一个普通话流利的员工和我一起站在台上，朗读产品说明。我能用普通话说数字，我会在中文和英文之间切换。这和我们在美国西南部拍卖东西时的情况很相似，在那里我们就会这样在英语和西班牙语之间换来换去。
Q. Has learning the language been important in operating a business in China?
问：对于在中国做生意而言，学习中文重要吗？
A. I think there’s an expectation from the Chinese community that if you are committed and you care about having a business in China that you will make a valiant effort to learn Mandarin.
答：我想中国人有这样一种期望，他们认为如果你是一个尽心尽力的人，如果你在乎在中国做生意，那么你会做出不懈的努力，来学习普通话。
Q. Does having a basic understanding of the language help protect you from the kinds of pitfalls one hears about?
问：对语言的基本理解，能否帮你避免我们经常听说的各种失误？
A. Often, Westerners have those bad experiences because they don’t understand what is considered a good deal in China. Westerners come at a negotiation as a win-win for both parties. Obviously, I want to win a little more than you do on your end, but we try to make it a win-win for each other. The Chinese consider a successful negotiation in terms of a win and a loss. And obviously, their desire is to win.
答：西方人往往有此类糟糕的经历，原因是他们不明白，在中国，什么样的买卖会被认为是好买卖。西方人开展谈判时，会抱着双方共赢的心态。当然了，我想比你那一方多赢一点，不过，我们也会设法让买卖双方多少都能赢。中国人会按照一方输另一方赢的结果来看待一桩成功的谈判。显然，他们希望自己能赢。
Q. How rough does it get and how rough do you have to be in response?
问：这种谈判有多艰难？你在应对这种谈判时，态度要多强硬？
A. It’s  not about having an even playing field but just deciding what you can live with and being willing and ready to walk away if you can’t get that. I think you have to change your thinking. We call it being “Chinafied” — which basically means, do your best to think like a Chinese businessperson and don’t make assumptions. For instance, it’s all but a rule in China that when you sign a contract with someone, that’s the beginning of the negotiation.
答：重点不是双方公平，而是你要明确能接受怎样的结果，如果得不到这样的结果，就愿意甚至乐于放弃谈判。我想，你必须改变思维方式。我们把这叫做“中国化”，它的基本意思是，尽可能地像中国商人那样思考，不要想当然。举个例子，在中国，签合同往往只意味着谈判的开始，这几乎已经成了一条规则。
Q. The opposite of here.
问：在美国正好相反。
A. Right. We’ve just adjusted to that. So we’re no longer frustrated by the process. That’s being Chinafied.
答：对。我们刚刚才习惯这一点。所以，我们不会再因为这样的过程而感到沮丧。这就是“中国化”。
Q. How much time do you spend in China now?
问：你现在花多少时间待在中国？
A. About half my time. Twenty weeks a year.
答：大约一半时间。一年大约20周。
Q. As I recall, you founded this business so you could be with your husband in Phoenix. How’s that working out?
问：我还记得，你建立这家公司，是为了和你的丈夫一起待在菲尼克斯。现在情况怎么样了？
A. Yeah. There is a lot of irony there. In my defense, I didn’t think I would spend quite this much time in China. But there is so much opportunity that it’s hard not to be here.
答：是啊，这么说来是有点讽刺。我得辩白一下，我本来没有料到会在中国待这么长时间。可是，这里有这么多的机会，我很难不待在这里。