A FOUR-BEDROOM APARTMENT ON THE RIGHT BANK
巴黎右岸的一套四居室公寓
AROUND $3.4 MILLION (3 MILLION EUROS)
大约340万美元（约300万欧元，约合人民币1912万元）
This second-floor apartment is in a 1912 building designed by the architect Albert Sélonier in a transitional Art Nouveau style, blending the parquet floors, high ceilings and traditional moldings of the Haussmann era  with geometric design elements that were forward-looking for the time. The décor is by Kara Molinari, an interior designer, and features bespoke carpets and artwork. The furnishings in the 2,940-square-foot space will be negotiable as part of the sale. A spacious terrace shaded by an awning overlooks an interior courtyard.
这套公寓在一栋1912年由建筑师Albert Sélonier设计的过渡时期新艺术风格的大厦二楼，该公寓将奥斯曼时期的拼花木地板、超高天花板和传统装饰板条与当时很前卫的几何设计元素混搭在一起。该公寓由室内设计师卡拉·莫利纳里(Kara Molinari)负责装潢，其特色是全定制的地毯和艺术品。这个面积2940平方英尺（约273平方米）的空间里所配备的家具可协商作为该交易的一部分出售。该公寓有一座带雨篷的宽敞平台眺望着内庭。
“My idea was to bring the flat into the 21st century with classic style,” Ms. Molinari said. The focal point of the apartment is a traditional entry hall, with large paned doors opening into various rooms. Walls and woodwork in shades of dark blue are set against a gilt-framed mirror, a leopard-print rug and a settee upholstered in gold fabric.
“我的想法是用古典风格把这套公寓带入21世纪，”莫利纳里说。该公寓的焦点是一座传统的门厅，那里有几扇大方格门可通往各房间。公寓内深蓝色的墙壁和木制品与一块镀金边框的镜子、一张印着猎豹的地毯和一张有靠背的金丝布艺沙发相互辉映。
To the left is an open-plan living and dining space, which is divided by Doric columns. Painted on the ceiling above the Jean Prouvé dining table is a geometric design inspired by the Russian Constructivism art movement of the 1920s. The living area features sofas by Philippe Starck, an Artemide Mercury light fixture, and a carpet designed by Ms. Molinari.
左边是开敞式的起居与餐厅区，中间有几根多利安柱隔开。在餐厅区，那张让·普鲁威(Jean Prouvé)餐桌上方的天花板上绘有受20世纪20年代俄国构成主义艺术运动启发而设计的一幅几何图形。起居区的特色是一套由菲利普·斯达克(Philippe Starck)设计的沙发、一盏阿尔特米德品牌的水银(Mercury)灯具，和一张由莫利纳里(Molinari)设计的地毯。
Beyond the living room is the master bedroom, which includes a walk-in closet and a boudoir with a Murano glass chandelier and gold leaf artwork by Ms. Molinari. The master bathroom has a 10-foot-long shower area, a free-standing tub by the Australian company Victoria & Albert, and matching floor and ceiling tiles by the Spanish company Porcelanosa. Ms. Molinari has embedded LED lights above the tub to create an impression of a night sky.
这间起居室的外面是主卧，该卧室有一个步入式的橱柜和一间带一盏Murano品牌的玻璃枝形吊灯与一件由莫利纳里设计的金树叶艺术品的化妆室。这间主卧中还有一处10英尺长（约3米）的淋浴区、一个由澳大利亚Victoria & Albert公司制造的独立式站脚浴缸，以及由西班牙Porcelanosa公司制造的地板与天花板瓷砖。莫利纳里女士还在这个浴缸的上方设计了内嵌的LED灯光，制造出了一种夜空的效果。
The modern eat-in kitchen, to the right of the entry hall, has a Siemens side-by-side refrigerator/freezer and induction cooktop, and sleek, integrated cabinetry, with quartz counters, made by the Italian company Arrital to Ms. Molinari’s specifications. Doors open to the terrace.
门厅右边的这间现代风格的可供用餐的厨房里有一台西门子对开门冰箱/冷柜和电磁炉，还有光鲜亮丽的组合橱柜，以及由意大利Arrital公司根据莫利纳里女士的设计规格制造的一些石英石台面。这里的一扇门可通往平台。
Down the entry hall is a family room and library with a custom carpet, a fireplace and doors that open wide to the terrace. At the far end of the entry hall, a service corridor with laundry facilities leads to the other three bedrooms and two full bathrooms. There is a storage room in the basement as well as parking under the building.
走过门厅是一间家庭娱乐室和书房，这里铺着定制的地毯，有一座壁炉，还有一扇通往外面平台的大门。门厅的尽头是一条带有洗衣设施的服务通道，这里可通往另外三间卧室和两间全功能的浴室。地下室中还有个储物间，楼下有停车位。
The apartment is in the Trocadéro neighborhood, in the 16th arrondissement, across the Seine from the Eiffel Tower. The 16th is one of the largest arrondissements in the city. The area is served by the No. 6 Metro line, and offers easy access to the Périphérique ring road around Paris. Orly airport is about 30 minutes’ drive; Charles de Gaulle airport, about 45 minutes.
这套公寓位于特罗卡代罗(Trocadéro)社区，在巴黎第16区埃菲尔铁塔旁的塞纳河对岸。这是巴黎市最大的行政区之一。该区域内有地铁六号线，从这里进入Périphérique环城大道也十分便利。奥利(Orly)机场距此大约有30分钟的车程；戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)机场约45分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Foreign buyers have long gravitated toward the city’s historic core — the arrondissements, or districts, on either side of the Seine. On the Left Bank, that means the Seventh around the Eiffel Tower and the gallery- and boutique-lined streets in the Sixth along the Boulevard St.-Germain, which runs roughly east to west a few blocks in from the Seine.
外国买家一直都很青睐巴黎市的历史核心地带，即塞纳河两岸的那几处行政区。在左岸，该区域就是埃菲尔铁塔周围的第七区，以及第六区沿着圣日耳曼大道(St.-Germain)的那几条排列着许多画廊和精品店的街道，这片区域大致从东往西延伸，在塞纳河边的几条街区范围内。
The city’s highest real estate prices can be found in the Eighth Arrondissement on the Right Bank, home of the “Golden Triangle” of luxury shopping and hotels, followed closely by its neighbor to the west, the vast 16th arrondissement.
该市最高的房地产价格出现在右岸的第八区，那里是汇聚了许多奢侈品商店与酒店的“金三角”地带，西边紧挨着面积巨大的16区。
While Paris may have been eclipsed somewhat by the glamorous new high-rises of New York and London, overseas buyers value the city precisely because the pace of development has been slow, agents said. The market remains a conservative one, with little foreign demand for properties in gentrifying or trendy neighborhoods.
据一些代理人说，虽然与伦敦和纽约那些光彩夺目的新高楼大厦相比，巴黎或许有些黯然失色了，但那些海外买家看重的正是这里的发展速度放缓了一些。这里的房地产市场仍然很保守，在一些新晋社区或时尚社区中，来自外国的房地产需求很少。
“People come to Paris to buy the typical Paris flat,” said Alexander Kraft, the chairman and chief executive of Sotheby’s International Realty France, which is listing the apartment. “They want the parquet floor, the moldings, the fireplace, the balcony that runs around.”
“人们来巴黎就是为了购买典型的巴黎公寓，”苏富比国际房地产公司的法国分公司首席执行官兼董事会主席亚历山大·克拉夫特(Alexander Kraft)说。“他们想要拼花地板、装饰板条、壁炉和环绕在四周的阳台。”
Home prices in Paris saw a run-up in the 2000s that largely continued through the collapse of Lehman Brothers, agents said. But uncertainty surrounding the presidential election of 2012, won by the Socialist François Hollande — who ran partly on a platform of raising taxes on the wealthy — sent prices tumbling.
代理人说，巴黎市的房价曾在2000年上涨过一段时间，并一直延续到了雷曼兄弟公司倒闭之后。但围绕着2012年总统竞选而产生的一些不确定性让房价跌了下来，因为获胜的社会党成员弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)当时有些措施是基于对富人增税这一竞选纲领上的。
“We were for over 10 years in a seller’s market,” said Marie-Hélène Lundgreen, the director of Belles Demeures de France, a subsidiary of Daniel Féau, which is a Christie’s affiliate. “Then in 2012, the elections, it was completely the contrary. We got into a buyer’s market with more inventory and prices went down.”
“我们在卖方市场上经营了10多年的时间，”佳士得(Christie)的附属公司Daniel Féau的子公司、法国Belles Demeures公司的主管玛丽-伊莲·伦德格林(Marie-Hélène Lundgreen)说。“然后2012年，竞选开始，情况变得完全相反。我们进入了买方市场，房屋存量多了，房价却一路下跌。”
Prices have fallen about 15 percent since 2012, according to a report from Ms. Lundgreen’s agency. But the market has shown signs of rebounding, with the number of transactions rising, if not prices, in the  past 12 months.
据伦德格林公司的一份报告，房价自2012年以来已经下跌了大约15%。但巴黎房地产市场已经显示出了复苏的迹象，在过去的12个月中，即便交易价格没有上升，交易量也在不断上升。
“We are not expecting prices to go up again immediately,” Ms. Lundgreen said,  “but we see inventory coming down, and the market might change into a seller’s market again.”
“我们并没有指望房价会立刻上涨，”伦德格林说，“但我们看到房屋存量下降了，而且市场可能已经再次变为卖方市场了。”
Part of that activity is because of the weakness in the euro, agents said, but equally important is that sellers have started to negotiate more and even have cut prices.
代理人说，该现象的原因部分在于欧元的疲软，但同样重要的是卖家们现在有更多商谈的空间了，甚至已经降了价。
“Finally, at the end of last year some sellers started to adjust prices,” Mr. Kraft said. “These days,  you bring an offer of minus 20 percent and sellers will say, let’s talk.”
“最终，在去年的年末，有些卖家开始调整价格了，”克拉夫特说。“最近，如果你拿来一份降价20%的订单，买家们也会说，我们谈谈好了。”
WHO BUYS IN PARIS
谁在巴黎买房
The luxury market in Paris — for apartments $2 million and over — is notable for its diversity. “There’s not one predominant group, really,” Mr. Kraft said. In the last year, “Americans have come on strong,” he said, with the number of buyers from Russia and China falling sharply because of economic and political factors in those countries.
巴黎的豪华房地产市场——对公寓而言是200万美元（约合人民币1284万元）及以上的房产——以其买家群体的多样化而出名。“没有什么主导群体，真的，”克拉夫特说。去年，“美国人来势凶猛，”他说，但俄国与中国的买家由于国内的政治经济因素而急剧下降。
Data provided by Ms. Lundgreen showed that in 2014, 32 percent of buyers were from the Middle East, 23 percent from Europe and 19 percent from North America, with the remainder largely from Russia and Asia.
伦德格林提供的数据显示，在2014年，有32%的买家来自中东，23%来自欧洲，19%来自北美，其他大部分来自俄国和亚洲。
According to a survey from BNP Paribas, the number of properties in France sold to overseas buyers rose 1.5 percent in 2014, after falling the previous two years — 1 percent from 2011 to 2012, and 13 percent from 2012 to 2013. That upward trend continued through the first five months of 2015, the survey found. Corresponding to the strength of the dollar and the British pound against the euro, the number of American buyers increased by 12 percent in 2014, and the number of British buyers by 33 percent.
据法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)的一项调查，法国房产销售给海外买家的数量在2014年上升了1.5%，而前两年的销量一直在下跌，2011至2012年下跌了1%，2012年至2013年下跌了13%。该调查发现，这次的上涨势头在2015年的前五个月中一直在持续。由于美元和英镑目前对于欧元的强势，美国买家的数量在2014年增长了12%，而英国买家则增长了33%。
“Frankly, in comparison to other big capitals, Paris is quite cheap, really,” Mr. Kraft said. “Maybe one-third the price in New York or London. The attraction is very diverse, and this is reflected in the nationalities. For some, it’s fashion, for others it’s business.”
“坦白说，与其他的首都大城市相比，巴黎的房价非常便宜，真的，”克拉夫特说。“也许只是纽约或伦敦房价的三分之一。这里有各种各样的吸引力，因而有来自各个国家的人。有些人是为了时尚而来，有些人则是为了生意。”
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers. All transactions go through a notary, who is responsible for details like contracts, verifying the legality of the deed and ensuring that taxes are collected and paid.
巴黎对外国买家没有限制。所有的交易都必须通过一位公证人进行，这位公证人负责的一些具体事项包括起草和签订合同、证实这笔交易的合法性，以及确保税金的收取和支付。
Buyers should budget about 8 percent to 10 percent of the sales price for taxes and notary fees, the majority of which are transfer taxes. It is usually not necessary to retain a lawyer.
买家们应该预留售价的8%至10%用来缴税和支付公证费用，其中主要是房地产转让税。通常没有必要聘请律师。
WEBSITES
网站
City of Paris: next.paris.fr/english
巴黎市：next.paris.fr/english
Paris tourism: en.parisinfo.com
巴黎旅游网：en.parisinfo.com
Buying property in France: notaires.fr
法国购房网：notaires.fr
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Property taxes for this home are about $4,000 a year, and condominium fees are about $13,700 a year.
该住宅每年的房地产税约为4000美元（约合人民币2.5万元），合作公寓的管理费每年约13700美元（约合人民币8.8万元）。
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
语言和货币
French; euro (1 euro = $1.14)
法语；欧元（1欧元=1.14美元，约合人民币6.8元）
CONTACT
联系方式
Paulo Fernandes, Paris Ouest Sotheby’s International Realty, (011-33) 1 46 22 27 27; parisouest-sothebysrealty.com
Paulo Fernandes, Paris Ouest Sotheby’s International Realty, (011-33) 1 46 22 27 27; parisouest-sothebysrealty.com