DERGE, China — The dozen or so Tibetan men wearing aprons sat in pairs in low chairs. Each pair bent over a thin rectangular wooden block and worked by sunlight streaming into the second-story room open to a courtyard.
中国德格——十几名穿着围裙的藏族男子一对一地坐在低椅子上。每一对都在弯着身子工作，他们眼前有一片薄的长方形木板，给他们照明的阳光透过窗户洒在这个与庭院相连的二楼房间里。
Their hands moved quickly. Over and over they went through the same motions, several times each minute: One man slathered red or black ink on the block, which was carved with Tibetan words and religious images. Then his partner placed a thin piece of white paper atop the block and, bending even lower, ran a roller over it. Seconds later, he whipped off the paper and put it aside to dry.
他们的双手在很快地活动着。一次又一次地重复着相同的动作，每分钟好几次：其中一人给木板涂上红色或黑色的墨水，木板上刻有藏文和宗教图像。之后，他的搭档把一张薄薄的白纸盖在板上，把身子弯得更低，用一个滚筒从纸的背面刷过。几秒钟后，他快速取下那张纸，把它放在一边晾干。
That bending was an act of prostration to the Buddha, said Pema Chujen, a Tibetan woman who was leading a group of ethnic Han visitors around the monastery. I stood at the back of the tour, having walked into the monastery during a two-week road trip across this part of Tibet.
那个弯腰动作是在拜佛，白玛楚珍（Pema Chujen，音）说，这位藏族女子正带领着一群汉族游客参观这座寺院。我跟在旅游团的后边走了进来，这是我在这个藏区的两周公路旅行的一站。
“They are like this every day,” she said. “This is just the faith in their hearts. Of course, it’s good to make offerings to the Buddha using a lot of money, but it’s more faithful to make offerings using your body, mouth and mind.”
“他们每天都是这样，”她说。“这是他们心中的信仰。当然，用很多钱来祭奉佛陀也不错，但是用你的身、口、心来祭奉更忠诚。”
So went a typical afternoon in one of the most revered institutions in the Tibetan world, the Parkhang printing lamasery in the mountainous heart of the Kham region. On Chinese maps, it is in the far west of Sichuan Province, across the Cho La, a vertiginous pass at 16,600 feet.
这是这个藏传佛教世界最受尊敬机构之一的一个典型下午，这个寺院是位于康区腹地的德格印经院。在中国版图上，康区位于四川省的最西部，到那里需要穿越海拔5000多米的险峻的Cho La山口。
The press, in the town of Derge, dates to 1729 and draws pilgrims from across the Tibetan plateau to the three-story monastery, its walls painted scarlet and with golden Buddhist icons on the roof.
这座位于德格镇的印经院始于1729年，它吸引着来自青藏高原各地的朝圣者，寺院建筑高三层，外墙深红色，屋顶下有金色的佛像。
The printing press is the embodiment of a hallowed tradition and is one site where the Tibetan language is being preserved, despite the lack of immersive Tibetan-language education on the plateau. It has more than 320,000 wooden printing blocks that are on average more than 260 years old, said Ms. Pema, a volunteer who cleans the monastery’s objects and guides visitors.
印经院使用的印刷术是一种神圣传统的实例，这里也是藏文得以保护的地方之一，尽管沉浸式的藏语教育已在整个青藏高原消失。白玛说，印经院里有32万余块木刻古印版，印版的平均年龄超过260年。白玛在寺院当义务清洁工，也当导游。
The monastery also houses venerable collections of sutras, including 830 classic scriptures and copies of more than 70 percent of ancient Tibetan manuscripts, she said. The founder of the monastery, Chokyi Tenpa Tsering, embraced works from the range of Tibetan Buddhist schools.
寺院里还有古典经文收藏，其中包括830卷古典经文和藏文古籍抄本的70％，她说。寺院的创始人却吉·丹巴泽仁(Chokyi Tenpa Tsering)搜集了来自不同藏传佛教学派的文本。
“He was very open minded, like the ocean containing water from all rivers,” she said.
“他思想开放，就像大海能包容来自所有河流的水那样，”她说。
Besides trying to preserve the old blocks, the printing house has been making new ones since the 1980s. A decade from now, it is expected to have 400,000 blocks, Ms. Pema said.
除了保存古印版的努力之外，印经院自从20世纪80年代起一直在刻制新印版。白玛说，估计十年后，这里的印版数量将达到40万块。
The printing blocks are constructed from red birchwood in 13 steps. At an early stage, the raw pieces of wood have to be soaked in feces for a half-year. Those that do not crack or break during this period are then made into printing blocks, Ms. Pema said. This ensures the blocks that are used will endure — able to withstand the bites of rats and insects, among other hazards.
印版以红桦木为材料，经过13个步骤制作而成。在制作过程的早期，原料木材须在粪池中浸泡半年。经过这个过程而不出现裂纹或破裂的木材才被刻制成印版，白玛说。这就确保了木刻印版可以长期保存，能够抵御被老鼠和昆虫蚕食及其他危害。
The printing operations employ about 60 people. The men have been here for two decades on average, despite low pay, Ms. Pema said. Each day, they print about 2,500 pieces of paper, on both sides, for distribution across the Tibetan plateau.
印经工作雇用约60人。白玛说，尽管工资很低，这些男子平均已在这里工作了二十年。他们每天印约2500页纸，每页纸都是双面印刷，然后装订分发到青藏高原各地。
At its height, the press employed more than 500 people, and almost all were monks from the neighboring Gonchen Monastery. These days, the printers are laypeople.
在印经院最繁忙的时期，这里曾雇用过500多人，几乎所有的工人都是来自附近Gonchen寺院的僧人。这些日子里，印刷工人都是普通人。
The monastery is a warren of hallways and rooms. On the third floor, a few men sat in a small, dark room. Here they made simple thangkas, large hangings with Buddhist iconography.
印经院里的通道狭窄、房间不大。几名男子坐在三楼一间阴暗的房间里。他们在那里制做简单的“唐卡”，这是一种以佛教图像为题材的大挂图。
Hanging from a string were thangkas showing popular aspects of the pantheon: the seated Sakyamuni Buddha, the fingers of one hand touching the earth; Medicine Buddha, holding a bowl; Mahakala, the fierce protector deity that appears in paintings as a blue, multiarmed, fanged demon.
一根绳子上悬挂的几幅“唐卡”展示着佛教神殿里常见的东西：手指触摸土地的释迦牟尼坐像，手持衣钵的药师佛，还有在绘画中表现为蓝色、多臂、长着长牙的恶魔的大黑天护法神。
In one corner of the room, an abbot sat discussing a text with one of the printers.
在房间的一个角落里，一名坐着的长老正与一名印经工人讨论印的东西。
A few feet away, a tall Tibetan man in a black Arc’teryx jacket pointed out items in the room to a friend. He was Chime Dorje, a prominent doctor and advocate of traditional medicine who ran a clinic in the town center.
几米之外，一位身穿黑色Arc’teryx外衣的高个子藏人把房间里的几件东西指给朋友看。他叫奇美多杰（Chime Dorje，音），是一位有名的藏医，也是传统医学的倡导者，他在镇中心有一家诊所。
He said the monks here had once operated a clinic. Now he and others were the inheritors of the tradition.
他说，这里的僧人曾经开过诊所。如今，他和其他人是那个传统的继承者。
“There were myths that Tibetan medicine contained a large amount of mercury and lead, but actually its ingredients are just normal,” he told me. “Some theoretical studies have also proven that Tibetan medicine is scientific.”
“有些荒诞的说法称，藏药里含有大量的汞和铅，但实际上，藏药的成分很正常，”他对我说。“有些理论研究也证明藏医是科学的。”
Outside, pilgrims walked around the building to complete a kora, or holy circuit. Old women spun hand-held prayer wheels and hobbled along with walking sticks. The monastery was one of three pilgrimage sites in the Tibetan world that represented the body, mouth and mind of the Buddha, Ms. Pema said.
外面，朝圣者们在环绕寺院走转经。老年妇女手中的转经纶不定地旋转着，她们拄着拐棍蹒跚而行。这个印经院是藏传佛教中分别代表佛陀身、口、心的三个朝圣地之一，白玛说。
One visitor, Sonam, said he saw more traditional dress in Derge than anywhere else in the region. He pointed to women circling the monastery with coral and turquoise stones entwined into braids in their hair. “They have money,” he said.
一位名叫Sonam的游客说，他在德格看到的穿传统服装的人比这个地区其他地方的要多。他用手指着在印经院外转经的女子说，“她们有钱”，这些女子梳的辫子里有珊瑚和绿松石等宝石。
Chanting emanated from loudspeakers. In hills to the east of the monastery were clusters of red, three-story wooden homes, a traditional design in the region.
扬声器里传来了念经的声音。印经院东边的山脚下，有一群红色的三层木制房屋，这是该地区的一种传统建筑。
Even if the scene around the monastery evoked ancient customs, the town did not. Modern five-story buildings lined the valley walls along the river. Yellow construction cranes loomed above the skyline, a sight typical of cities big and small across China. At night, neon signs glowed.
虽然寺院周围的风景唤起了人们对古老风俗的回想，但镇子本身却没有一点特色。五层高的现代建筑在山谷里沿河排列着。黄色的起重机高耸在地平线上，这种景象在中国各地的大小城市中很常见。夜晚，到处都闪烁着霓虹灯。
Katia Buffetrille, a scholar of Tibet at the École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris, said the sprawl of the town had surprised her when she visited last year. She had last come here three decades earlier.
巴黎索邦大学高等社科院藏学学者卡提娅·布菲特里耶(Katia Buffetrille)说，去年访问时，这个镇子摊大饼式的发展令她非常惊讶。她曾在30年多前来过这里。
The monastery was in bad shape in 1985, she said. But the printing press was functioning back then.
她说，1985年时，印经院处于失修的状态。但当时，人们仍在用传统方法从事印刷。
“The operations of the printing press are today similar to what they were in 1985,” Ms. Buffetrille said. “It’s amazing how many pages they print every day.”
“如今的印刷操作与1985年的非常相似，”布菲特里耶说。“他们每天能印出那么多页纸，令人惊讶。”
“That can explain the bad quality of the printing sometimes,” she added.
“这也能解释为什么印刷质量有时很差的问题，”她补充说。
But the traditions endure. On the afternoon I visited, in a monastic building uphill from the printing press, monks held a dharma ceremony, which they do every few weeks. One monk walked around a crowded courtyard sprinkling drops of water on worshipers. Others sat on a dais at the front, reading aloud from scriptures that had been printed by hand next door.
但传统仍在继续。在我去参观的那个下午，离印经院不远的山坡上，僧人们正在一座寺庙建筑里举行一个达摩仪式，他们每隔几周就举行一次。一名僧人在一个拥挤的庭院里来回走动，边走边向前来朝拜的人洒着圣水。还有人坐在前面的台子上大声朗读经文，这些经文就是隔壁印经院手工印制的。