MUMBAI, India — At 5:30 p.m. on that Thursday, four young men were playing cards, as usual, when Mohammed Kasim Sheikh’s cellphone rang and he announced that it was time to go hunting. Prey had been spotted, he told a friend. When the host asked what they were going to hunt, he said, “A beautiful deer.”
印度孟买——那个周四下午五点半的时候，四个男青年像往常一样在玩牌，突然穆罕默德·卡西姆·谢赫(Mohammed Kasim Sheikh)的电话响了起来，他宣布打猎的时间到了。他告诉一个朋友，已经发现了猎物。当主人问，他们要猎捕什么东西的时候，他回答说，“一只漂亮的小鹿。”
As two men rushed out, the host smirked, figuring they did not like losing at cards.
当两个男人冲出去的时候，主人得意地笑了，认为他们不过是不想输牌。
Two hours later, a 22-year-old photojournalist limped out of a ruined building. She had been raped repeatedly by five men, asked by one to re-enact pornographic acts displayed on a cellphone. After she left, the men dispersed to their wives or mothers, if they had them; it was dinnertime. None of their previous victims had gone to the police. Why should this one?
两个小时后，一名22岁的摄影记者艰难地走出一个荒废的建筑。她被五个男人轮奸，其中一人还要求她模仿手机播放的色情视频。她离开后，男人们纷纷散去，有老婆或母亲的都各回各家；已经到了吃晚饭的时间。之前的受害者都没有报警。这个受害者又为什么会报警呢？
The trial in the Mumbai gang-rape case has opened to a drowsy and ill-attended courtroom, without the crush of reporters who documented every twist in a similar case in New Delhi in which a woman died after being gang-raped on a private bus. The accused, barefoot, sit on a bench at the back of the courtroom, observing the arguments with blank expressions, as if they were being conducted in Mandarin. All have pleaded not guilty. They are slight men with ordinary faces, nothing imposing, the kind one might see at any bus stop or tea stall.
审理这起孟买轮奸案的法庭里，气愤沉闷，也没有多少人旁听，全然不像发生在新德里的那起类似案件，没有成群的记者记下审理中出现的任何意外细节。在那桩案件里，一名女子在私人巴士上遭到轮奸后死亡。在这里，被告赤脚坐在法庭后面的长椅上，面无表情地看着双方辩论，就好像这些人说的是异国语言。被告都不认罪。他们全是普通面容的瘦小男子，没什么让人发憷的地方，是那种可能在任何公共汽车站或茶摊上看到的人。
But the Mumbai case provides an unusual glimpse into a group of bored young men who had committed the same crime often enough to develop a routine. The police say the men had committed at least five rapes in the same spot. Their casual confidence reinforces the notion that rape has been a largely invisible crime here, where convictions are infrequent and victims silently go away. Not until their arrest, at a moment when sexual violence has grabbed headlines and risen to the top of the state’s agenda, did the seriousness of the crime sink in.
但孟买的这起案件提供了一个不同寻常的机会，让我们了解了一群感到无聊的青年：他们经常犯下这种罪行，甚至已形成了习惯。警方称，这群人至少在上述场地实施过五次强暴。他们自然流露出的那种对自己行为的自信突显了这种看法——在很大程度上，强奸在印度已经成为一种被忽视的罪行，定罪的案件非常少，而且受害者也会默默离开。直到这几人被逮捕，人们才认识到强奸罪行的严重性。就在此时，性暴力已经成为各家媒体的头条新闻，也被提到了政府的首要议程。
An editor at the photographer’s publication, who was present when a witness identified the first of the five suspects, a juvenile, said the teenager dissolved in tears as soon as he was accused.
一名证人指认出五名嫌疑犯中的第一个人——一名未成年人，这名摄影师所在出版社的编辑也在现场。这名编辑表示，一经指控，这名青少年便开始痛哭。
“It was exactly like watching a kid in school who has been caught doing something,” said the editor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect the identity of the victim, who cannot be identified according to Indian law. “It’s like a bunch of kids who found a dog and tied a bunch of firecrackers to its tail, just to see what would happen. Only in this case it was far more egregious. It was malevolent, what happened.”
“这就像是看着一个在学校做错事被抓住的孩子一样，”这名编辑说。“感觉就像是一群孩子发现了一只狗，将一串炮竹绑到了狗尾巴上，他们只是想看看会发生什么事情。只是这起案件要恶劣得多。他们的行为更具伤害性。”为了保护受害者的身份，这名编辑要求匿名，印度法律禁止透露强奸案受害者的身份。
In spots Mumbai is an anarchic jumble, its high-rise buildings flanked by vest-pocket slums and vacant properties that have reverted to near-wilderness. One such place is the Shakti Mills, a ruin from the prosperous days of Mumbai’s textile industry. When night falls, it is a treacherous span of darkness lined with sinkholes and debris, but still in the middle of the city, still close enough to look up and watch the lights flicker on in the Shangri-La Hotel.
孟买的很多地方都显得杂乱无章，高楼大厦两侧常常是一些小平民窟和几近荒芜的闲置房屋。夏克提棉纺厂(Shakti Mills)就是这样的一个地方，这是孟买纺织工业繁荣时期遗留下的工厂。夜幕降临时，暗藏危险的黑暗中到处都是污水坑和瓦砾，但它仍然位于市区内，仍然离香格里拉酒店(Shangri-La Hotel)很近，抬头就能看到酒店闪烁的灯光。
The photographer and her colleague, a 21-year-old man, were interns at an English-language publication and had decided to include this spot — the backdrop for any number of fashion shoots — as part of a photo essay on the city’s abandoned buildings, the editor said. On that Thursday last August, they reached the ruined mill about an hour before sunset.
这名编辑表示，受害的摄影师和21岁的男同事是一家英文出版物的实习生，他们决定将这个场地——很多时尚照片的背景场地——作为孟买废弃建筑摄影专题的一个拍摄场地。在今年8月的那个周四，他们在大约日落前一小时到达了这个废弃的工厂。
The five men they encountered there later came from slums near the mill complex, claustrophobic concrete warrens where electrical wires tangle at one’s head and acrid water flows in open gutters around one’s feet.
他们后来在那里遇到的五名男子来自工厂附近的贫民窟，在那些由混凝土砌成的狭窄的、幽闭恐怖的街区中，人们的头上是相互缠绕的电线，脚边就是露天的排水沟，里边的水散发出刺鼻的气味。
None of the men worked regularly. There were jobs chicken-plucking at a neighborhood stand — a hot, stinking eight-hour shift that paid 250 rupees, or $4. The men told their families they wanted something better, something indoors, but that thing never seemed to come. They passed time playing cards and drinking. Luxury was pressed in their faces in the sinuous form of the Lodha Bellissimo, a 48-story apartment building rising from an adjacent lot.
这五名男子都没有固定的工作。他们在街区的小摊做拔鸡毛的工作，在炎热、肮脏的环境中工作八小时能赚250卢比（约合24元人民币）。他们告诉自己的家人他们想要更好的工作，室内的工作，但那样的工作似乎永远都不会出现。他们靠打牌、喝酒打发时间。他们眼前就是代表奢侈生活的Lodha Bellissimo大厦，这座矗立在相邻街区的公寓楼拥有弯曲的外形，共有48层。
“Every boy in this neighborhood, including myself, would look at those buildings and say, ‘One day, I will own a flat in that building,’ ” said Yasin Sheikh, 22, who knew two of the accused men from the neighborhood. Because of his work helping find slum locations for film crews, he sometimes has a chance to interact with wealthy people, he said, and it fills him with yearning.
22岁的亚辛·谢赫(Yasin Sheikh)说，“街区中的每一个男孩，包括我自己，都会看着这些大楼说，‘终有一天，我会在那栋大楼里拥有自己的公寓。’”亚辛·谢赫认识两名来自该社区的被告。亚辛·谢赫表示，由于他的工作是帮助影片摄制组寻找贫民窟拍摄场地，他有时会有机会与富人进行交流，这让他充满渴望。
“I feel really sad around them, because I want to sit at the table with them,” he said.
他说，“和他们在一起时我觉得很悲哀，因为我想要跟他们坐在同一张桌子旁。”
Only Kasim Sheikh, 20, the card player who took the call, seemed to have shaken off the drag of poverty. A plump man in a neighborhood of the half-starved, he wore flashy shirts and hooked up his friends with catering jobs at weddings. He had been convicted of theft — iron, steel and other scrap from a railroad site — and occasionally provided information to the police, according to Mumbai’s joint police commissioner, Himanshu Roy.
似乎只有20岁的卡西姆·谢赫，也就是玩牌时接电话的那个男孩，摆脱了贫穷的困扰。这个胖乎乎的男孩所在的街区，居民从来吃不饱。而他穿着艳俗的衬衫，常常与从事婚庆餐饮工作的朋友们混在一起。孟买警察局副局长希曼舒·罗伊(Himanshu Roy)表示，卡西姆·谢赫曾被判犯有盗窃罪——从一处铁轨偷铁、钢及其他废金属，他偶尔也会向警方提供信息。
Some people steered clear of Mr. Sheikh. The grandmother of one of the accused men, a 16-year-old whose name is being withheld because of his age, had forbidden Mr. Sheikh to cross their threshold. But her grandson craved nice things; that was his weakness, his grandmother said. Mr. Sheikh “wore good clothes, he had a nice mobile, obviously he would, because he was a thief,” said Yasin Sheikh, the neighbor.
一些人会避开谢赫。其中一名被告的祖母曾禁止谢赫跨过他们家的门槛，但她的孙子渴望得到好的东西，他祖母表示，这是他的弱点。由于只有16岁，这名被告的名字没有对外公布。邻居亚辛·谢赫说，卡西姆·谢赫“穿好衣服，有一部时髦的手机，他当然会有这些东西，因为他是一个小偷”。
When another of their friends, a 27-year-old father of two named Salim Ansari, spotted the interns in the mill that day, the first thing he did was call Kasim Sheikh to tell him that their prey had arrived.
他们的另一名朋友，27岁的萨利姆·安萨里(Salim Ansari)是两个孩子的父亲。安萨里当天在工厂中发现两个实习生的时候，他想到的第一件事就是给卡西姆·谢赫打电话，告诉他猎物已经出现了。
Nothing to Lose
无所顾忌
During the year since the Delhi gang rape, sexual violence has been discussed endlessly in India, but there are few clear answers to the questions of how much is it happening or why.
德里发生轮奸事件后的一年里，性暴力已经成为印度国内不断讨论的问题，但对于性暴力事件的数量或原因，几乎没有明确的答案。
One problem is that perpetrators may not view their actions as a grave crime, but something closer to mischief. A survey of more than 10,000 men carried out in six Asian countries — India not among them — and published in The Lancet Global Health journal in September came up with startling data. It found that, when the word “rape” was not used as part of a questionnaire, more than one in 10 men in the region admitted to forcing sex on a woman who was not their partner.
一个问题是，一些罪犯可能不觉得他们的行为构成重罪，认为这类似于恶作剧。今年9月，《柳叶刀全球健康》(The Lancet Global Health)杂志公布了一份在六个亚洲国家——不包括印度——的一万多名男性中开展的调查，调查数据令人感到震惊。调查发现，该地区超过十分之一的男性承认曾强迫除伴侣之外的女性发生性行为，问卷中没有使用“强奸”一词。
Asked why, 73 percent said the reason was “entitlement.” Fifty-nine percent said their motivation was “entertainment seeking,” agreeing with the statements “I wanted to have fun” or “I was bored.” Flavia Agnes, a Mumbai women’s rights lawyer who has been working on rape cases since the 1970s, said the findings rang true to her experience.
在被问到为什么时，73%的受访者说道，理由是“理当如此”；59%的受访者说，他们的动机是“娱乐”，同意“我想找乐子”或“我太无聊了”的表述。孟买的一名妇女权益律师福拉瓦·阿格妮丝(Flavia Agnes)从20世纪70年代就开始接手强奸案件，她感觉按照她的经验，这个研究结果是真实的。
“It’s just frivolous; they just do it casually,” she said. “There is so much abject poverty. They just want to have a little fun on the side. That’s it. See, they have nothing to lose.”
“就是因为无所谓，他们随随便便地就去做这个，”她说。“赤裸裸的贫穷太普遍了。他们只是在日常生活之余找一点乐子，就是这么回事儿。反正他们也没什么好顾忌的。”
The photographer and her colleague reached the mill but, visually, it was not what they wanted. That is when two men approached them, the victim told the police later, offering to show them a route farther in. There the images were better, and the two had been working for half an hour when the two men returned.
摄影记者和她的同事来到了棉纺厂，但是这里的景象并不是他们想要的。受害者后来对警察说，这时候，两名男子走上前来，提出给他们指一条继续往里走的路。那里的画面会更好，二人在那里工作了半个小时后，这两名男子又回来了。
‘The Prey Is Here’
“猎物到了”
This time they came back with a third, Mr. Sheikh, who told them something odd — “Our boss has seen you, and you have to come with us now” — and insisted they take a path deeper into the complex. As they walked, she called an editor, who said to leave immediately, but it was too late for that. “Come inside, the prey is here,” Mr. Sheikh called out, and two more men joined them.
这次，他们又带来了第三个人，卡西姆·谢赫。谢赫对他们说了些奇怪的话：“我们老板看到你们了，你们现在就跟我们来。”而且谢赫还要求他们沿着一条小路，往这片厂区里更深的地方走。在走的过程中，她打电话给一位编辑，编辑让她马上离开，但那一刻要离开已经太晚了。谢赫喊道，“进来吧，猎物到了。”另外两名男子走来，加入其中。
The men said that the woman’s colleague was a murder suspect, asked the pair to remove their belts and used them to tie the man up. After that, the woman told the police, “the third person and a person who had a mustache took me to a place that was like a broken room.”
这些男子称女摄影师的同事是谋杀嫌犯，要求两人解下腰带，之后用腰带把男同事绑了起来。女子对警察说，之后，“第三个人，和一个留着胡子的人把我带到了一个地方，像是一间残破的房间。”
The men had done the same thing a month before, said Mr. Roy, the police commissioner, taking turns raping an 18-year-old call-center worker who, accompanied by her boyfriend, had sprained her ankle and was trying to take a shortcut through the mill. They had done the same thing with a woman who worked as a scavenger in a garbage dump, and a sex worker, and a transvestite, Mr. Roy said.
警察局官员罗伊说，这些男子在一个月前干过同样的事，轮奸了一名18岁的电话呼叫中心职员。当时她脚崴了，她的男朋友陪着她抄近道走进了棉纺厂里。罗伊说，他们还对一名在垃圾堆里拾荒的妇女、一名性工作者，及一名异装者做过同样的事。
Mr. Sheikh took the broken neck of a beer bottle out of his shirt pocket and thrust it at the young woman, telling her: “You don’t know what a bastard I am. You’re not the first girl I’ve raped,” she told the police later, according to the charge sheet filed in the case.
这起案件的起诉状中写道，受害女子事后对警方陈述，谢赫从自己的衬衣口袋里掏出一个摔破的啤酒瓶颈，伸到她面前，对她说：“你可不知道我有多浑蛋，你不是我强奸的第一个女的。”
On the other side of the wall, her friend heard the woman cry out. “An inquiry is going on,” the man guarding him said. They went in to her and returned, one by one.
她的朋友在屋外听到了她的哭喊。看守他的男子说，“正在进行讯问。”他们一个接一个地走进屋里，之后又走出来。
“Did you inquire properly?” Mr. Sheikh said to one as he came out.
一名男子走出来时，谢赫问他，“你有没有好好讯问？”
“No, she’s not talking,” he replied.
他回答，“没有，她不肯说话。”
So Mr. Sheikh said he would “go inquire again,” and the rest of them laughed.
于是谢赫说，他要“再讯问一次”，其余的人都笑了。
At last they brought her out, weeping, and told the two to leave along the railroad tracks. Before releasing her, they threatened to upload video of the attack onto the Internet if she reported the crime, a strategy that had worked with previous victims.
最后，他们把哭泣的受害者带了出来，并让两人沿着铁轨离开。在释放她之前，他们威胁道，如果她报案，就把施暴的视频上传到互联网上。对以往的受害者采取这种策略时，都奏效了。
But this one did not hesitate. The two caught a cab to the nearest hospital. There they reported the crime, and the woman’s mother arrived.
但这名受害者没有迟疑。两人乘出租车到了最近的医院，并在那里报了案，受害女子的母亲也赶到了。
Mr. Sheikh, too, saw his mother for a few moments that night. He discussed the rape with her, she said, and tried to explain why it had happened.
当天晚上，谢赫也与母亲交谈了一会儿。她说，儿子和她谈到了强奸，还试着解释为什么发生了那件事。
“I asked Kasim, ‘Son, why did you do this to her? If it happened to your sister, would you come here and tell me or would you beat him?’ ” said his mother, Chandbibi Sheikh. He told her that his friends had come upon the couple embracing in the mill, and “they thought: ‘What is she doing with this boy here? She must be loose.’ ”
他的母亲昌德比比·谢赫(Chandbibi Sheikh)说，“我问卡西姆，‘儿子，你为什么对她这样做？要是这种事发生在你的姐姐、妹妹身上，你会来我这儿跟我说，还是会去揍那个人？’”他对母亲说，他的朋友们看到那对男女在棉纺厂里抱作一团，“他们想：‘她跟那个男的在这里做什么呢？她肯定很放荡。’”
She related this exchange from the family’s home, a sort of shelf wedged between a gas station and a garbage dump; as she spoke, a rat the size of a kitten clambered over containers stacked in a corner. She said far too much onus was being put on the men.
昌德比比·谢赫在自家的小屋里讲述了这段对话。小屋像是一个架子，夹在一个加油站和一个垃圾堆中间。在她说话时，一只有猫仔那么大的老鼠，蹿过了堆在角落里的容器。她说，那些男人身上承担了太多太重的负担。
“Obviously, the fault is the girl’s,” she said. “Why did she have to go to that jungle? It’s her fault, too. Also, she was wearing skimpy clothes.”
“很显然，是那个女人的错，”她说。“她为什么偏要走到那么乱的地方？这也是她的错。况且她穿的衣服也太暴露了。”
She did not deny that he had done it. “He must have,” she said. “He told me that they tied up the boy who was doing bad things to her and said, ‘Madam, let us also do it.’ The madam said, ‘Don’t do it to me, take my mobile, take my camera, but don’t do it to me.’ Her body was uncovered. How could he control himself? And so it happened.”
她并没有否认谢赫实施了强奸。“他肯定干了，”她说。“他对我说，他们把那个对她做坏事的男孩绑起来了，还说‘女士，让我们也来吧’。那个女人说，‘别对我做那种事，拿走我的手机、相机，别做那个。’那个女人身体都裸露着，他怎么能控制自己呢？所以就发生了。”
High-Level Response
高层回应
Though the men in the mill may not have known it, rape had become a matter of great public import in India, a gauge of a city’s identity. Mumbai’s top officials, who had told themselves that the Delhi gang rape could not have happened here, were horrified and initiated a broad, high-level response, as if an act of terrorism had taken place.
也许棉纺厂里的男人们并不知道，但是强奸案在印度已经成了公众极为关注的重要议题，成了衡量城市形象的指标。孟买的高层官员之间曾谈论过，德里的那种轮奸案不会在这里发生。案件发生后，这些官员们极为惊恐，组建了一个委员会，作出了高级别的回应，仿佛是发生了一场恐怖主义事件。
The police lighted up their networks of slum informants and all five were arrested and gave confessions in quick succession. 
警方动员起了他们在贫民窟里的线人网络，很快全部五人就先后落网并招供了。
But in a constellation of neighborhoods around Mumbai, people are still trying to match up the crime with the ordinary men they knew.
然而在孟买周边的许多街区，人们仍然在努力地把这桩犯罪，与他们熟识的普通男子对应起来。
Shahjahan Ansari, the wife of the oldest accused man, Salim Ansari, looked terrified when a stranger appeared at her door, at a hulking, trash-strewn public housing complex beside a petroleum refinery on a distant edge of the city. The neighbors had started to shun the family since Salim’s arrest became public, and she dreaded the extra attention.
莎贾罕·安萨里(Shahjahan Ansari)的丈夫萨利姆·安萨里是受到指控的男子中年龄最大的一个。他们的家位于孟买偏远的边缘地带，在一座炼油厂背后一个堆满垃圾的巨型公屋小区里。一个陌生人来到她家门前时，莎贾罕十分惊惧。萨利姆被捕的消息传开后，邻居们已经开始回避这家人，她也会担心外界过多的注意。
“We can’t even walk on the street. You don’t understand,” she said. Inside the apartment, she calmed down a little. The whole story baffled her; she said she had no idea who her husband’s friends were or what he did during the day when she went to work cleaning houses. All she knew was that until his arrest, he came home for dinner every night, “He was to me like any husband is to his wife,” she said.
她说，“我们都不能上街，你不懂的。”在屋内，她稍稍冷静了下来。整个故事都让她困惑不已，她说她不知道丈夫的朋友都是谁，也不知道在她白天去打工给人清洁房间时，丈夫在做什么。她知道的只是，直到丈夫被捕，他每天都会回家吃晚饭。她说，“在我眼里，他跟别的丈夫没什么两样。”
“How do I know how he got into this mess? It must be the Devil,” murmured Salim’s mother, who was sitting on the floor, one eye blind, cloudy white.
“我怎么知道他是怎么干起这种勾当的？肯定是魔鬼，”萨利姆的母亲嘟囔着，她坐在地上，一只眼睛已经失明，呈现出混浊的白色。