Growing up mostly in Manhattan, Larry Landau spent his summers first on Fire Island and later in Southampton, where his mother bought a small ranch house. That’s the house that introduced his wife, Susan, who’s from New Jersey, to the Hamptons.
由于拉里·兰多(Larry Landau)基本上是在曼哈顿长大的，所以他夏天里一开始在火烧岛(Fire Island)度假，后来改在了南安普敦(Southampton)，那里有他母亲买的一栋牧场小屋。就是这栋房子，将他那位来自新泽西州(New Jersey)的妻子苏珊(Susan)第一次带入了汉普顿海滨(Hamptons)。
“I fell in love with the Hamptons immediately,” she said. Both found they preferred Long Island to the Jersey Shore. “There’s a feeling of permanence to the New York beaches, where the Jersey shores have more of a transient feel,” Mr. Landau said.
“我立刻就爱上了汉普顿，”她说。两人都发现，比起新泽西的海岸(Jersey Shore)，他们更喜欢长岛(Long Island)。“纽约的海滩让人有一种天长地久的感觉，而新泽西的海岸则更有转瞬即逝的感觉，”兰多说。
In 1999, the Landaus, who reside in a two-story colonial in suburban Morris County, N.J., bought the house from the estate of Mr. Landau’s mother.
1999年，居住在新泽西州莫里斯郡(Morris County)郊区一栋两层的殖民风格别墅中的兰多夫妇，从兰多母亲的房产中买下了这栋房屋。
Their two daughters, then in elementary school, became increasingly busy with camp and friends. More visitors would have been nice, said Mrs. Landau, a real estate appraiser. But at that stage of life, few of their friends were able to visit them in Southampton. “It was always something their kids needed back at home.”
那时候，他们那两个正上小学的女儿都开始忙着参加露营和结交朋友了。所以多来些客人就好了，身为房产评估员的兰多太太说。但大家的生活都处在那样的阶段，很少有朋友能到南安普敦来看望他们。“总有些孩子们需要的东西，还落在家里。”
So after a few years they sold the house, telling themselves, “someday we will return.”
于是几年后，他们卖掉了这栋房子，却一直告诉自己，“我们总有一天会回到这里的。”
Someday approached. A few years ago, the Landaus — about to be empty-nesters — began the hunt for a new Southampton house. Their ideal location was in Southampton Village south of Montauk Highway. For a relatively modest $550,000 to $650,000, they wanted three bedrooms, two bathrooms and, preferably, a pool.
那一天越来越近了。就在几年前，即将成为空巢父母的兰多夫妇开始在南安普敦寻找一个新住处。他们理想的地点在蒙托克公路(Montauk Highway)以南的南安普敦村(Southampton Village)。他俩想找一栋带三间卧室、两间浴室、最好还有个游泳池的房子，预算在55万美元（约合人民币343万元）至65万美元（约合人民币406万元）间，不是太多。
“The question was: ‘How do you get to Southampton Village if you are not a hedge fund manager?’ “ said Mr. Landau, who works in the financial-services field.
“问题是：‘你若不是一名对冲基金经理，怎么能够住进南安普敦村呢？’”在金融服务领域工作的兰多先生说。
In their price range, they encountered primarily teardowns and fixer-uppers.
他们在这样的价格范围，遇到的主要是些待拆屋和待修房。
“We came up with a concept called the rainy-day test,” Mr. Landau said. “Could you see yourself here during a rainy or off-season day?” That’s one reason they wanted a fireplace — for rainy or chilly weather.
“我们渐渐有了一种所谓雨天考验(rainy-day test)的想法，”兰多先生说，“你能想象自己在某个雨天或旅游淡季的时候待在这里吗？”这就是他们想要一座壁炉的原因——为了应付雨天或者寒冷的天气。
“In the summer, when it’s raining and you’re confined,” Mrs. Landau said, “there isn’t a whole lot else you are doing except going to T.J. Maxx in Bridgehampton.”
“在夏季，每逢下雨让行动受限的时候，”兰多太太说，“除了前往布里奇汉普敦(Bridgehampton)的那家T.J. Maxx商店，你也没什么其它事可做。”
A lovely four-bedroom house on Meadowgrass Lane, circa 1996, came with a pool and a fireplace. Mrs. Landau loved its soaring, vaulted ceiling and modern style, so unlike their New Jersey house. “It helped me decide what I liked,” she said. But at $899,000, it was simply too pricey. It later sold for $800,000.
Meadowgrass巷有一栋大约1996年建成的、带四间卧室的漂亮房屋，就有一个游泳池和一座壁炉。兰多太太喜欢它那高高的穹顶天花板和现代风格，这点与他们在新泽西州的住处很不一样。“这让我想清楚了自己喜欢什么样的房屋，”她说。但89.9万美元（约合人民币562万元）的售价实在太高了。这栋房屋后来以80万美元（约合人民币499.8万元）的价格售出。
The couple checked out Bishops Pond, a 69-unit planned townhouse community that opened last year. Mr. Landau declared it “spectacular and out of the budget.” With the smallest three-bedrooms starting in the mid-$800,000s — they are currently selling for around $1.1 million — they had to pass it by.
这对夫妇还看了去年才开放的、规划了60栋联排别墅的Bishops Pond社区。兰多先生称，那地方“非常气派，但超出了预算”。其中那些面积最小的三卧室房屋，起售价也在85万美元（约合人民币531万元）左右；而目前已卖到大约110万美元（约合人民币687万元）了。所以他们不得不放弃。
They strayed north of the highway and saw a three-bedroom house, listed at $540,000, on Helens Lane in North Sea, situated on a creek. They could kayak right up to the yard.
他们继续在这条公路的北边四处寻找，然后看见一栋带有三间卧室的房屋，标价54万美元（约合人民币337万元），地点位于北海(North Sea)的海伦斯巷(Helens Lane)，就坐落在一条小溪旁。他们可以直接把独木舟划进院子里。
To take advantage of the views, the house had its bedrooms on the ground floor and the living area on top. Both yard and interior needed plenty of work.
为了充分利用这些景观，这栋房屋把卧室安排在底层，而把客厅安排在了顶层。院子里和室内都需要大量修缮工作。
“It was too kooky for me,” Mrs. Landau said. It later sold for $530,000.
“这栋房屋对我来说太怪异了，”兰多太太说。后来，该房屋以53万美元（约合人民币331万元）的价格售出。
At an older townhouse community built in 1976, Southampton Meadows, the Landaus found another place within their budget. An end unit, with two bedrooms, two bathrooms and a fireplace, had been vacant for two years; the development included a saltwater pool and tennis courts.
在南安普敦的Meadows，一个建于1976年的联排别墅老社区中，兰多夫妇又发现了一处在他们预算范围内的地方。这是一栋链端房屋（end unit，指一排房屋中的最后一栋——译注），有两间卧室、两间浴室和一座壁炉，已经空置了两年；该房屋的设施还包括一个海水游泳池和几处网球场。
The listing price was $689,000, with a monthly fee of around $700. The townhouse didn’t seem like it needed that much work, though no interior improvements had been made since it was built.
房子的市场售价为68.9万美元（约合人民币430.5万元），每月还有一笔约为700美元（约合人民币4373元）的管理费。这栋联排别墅看起来似乎无需太多修缮，虽然自从建成后，室内的装修从未升级过。
When they next saw a two-bedroom ranch house in the low $600,000s — and in such bad shape it needed to be razed — they knew they would find nothing more suitable than the townhouse. They bought it for $589,000, closed in late winter and went to work.
接着，他们又看了一栋带两间卧室的牧场屋，售价略高于60万美元（约合人民币375万元），并已破败到了需要推倒重建的地步——那时候他俩终于明白，他们不会再找到比那栋联排别墅更适合的房屋了。于是，他们以58.9万美元（约合人民币368万元）的价格买下了那栋房子，并于冬末完成了交易，开始进行修整工作。
“When we bought it, we saw the flaws,” Mrs. Landau said. So many other places were in obvious need of work, but theirs was not. “We were caught off guard,” she said, surprised to find their home “needed every inch redone.” Their $15,000 renovation budget ballooned to $50,000.
“我们买下这栋房子后，才看到它的缺点，”兰多太太说。许多其它房屋都有明显的修缮需要，但他们这栋房子不是那么明显。“所以，我们有些措不及手，”她说。她忽然惊讶地发现，他们的家竟然“处处都要重新修葺”。他们原本1.5万美元（约合人民币9.4万元）的翻修预算膨胀到了5万美元（约合人民币31万元）。
But they tackled the project like troopers, doing what they could themselves and joining Angie’s List to find skilled workers. “I’ve got projects for forever,” Mr. Landau said. Few of those are outdoors. They find it a relief not to worry about landscaping or pool maintenance. What’s more, “I like the social aspects” of a community pool, he said. “There’s nothing social about your own pool if you don’t have guests out that weekend.”
但他们还是勇敢地处理了这件事。他们做了自己力所能及的工作，还加入了Angie’s List点评网，找到一些熟练技工。“我一直都有活儿要做，”兰多先生说。但那些活儿很少是户外的项目。他们庆幸不必为造景和游泳池的维护工作担心。而且，社区游泳池的“社交生活正合我意”，他说，“如果你在周末里没有客人来的话，你自家的游泳池也就没什么社交意义了。”
Some similar units have been renovated, with space beneath the vaulted ceiling becoming a third bedroom. But the Landaus want to keep theirs as is, airy and bright.
有些类似的房屋在翻修后，把穹顶天花板下方的空间变成了第三间卧室。但是兰多夫妇想把他俩的住处保持原样，宽敞而明亮。
If their kids (now in their early 20s) have friends stay over, “they don’t care if they sleep on chairs at their age,” Mrs. Landau said. This time around, their friends are more eager to visit. “My friends don’t have all these obligations to their children,” Mrs. Landau said, “and now that my daughters look at the Hamptons as the place to go, everybody wants to come over. Everybody is, like, when’s my weekend?”
如果孩子们（现已20岁出头）有朋友来过夜，“他们那个年龄，不会在意是否睡在椅子上，”兰多太太说。这一回，朋友们也都更积极地来看望他们了。“我那些朋友没有了照顾孩子的所有责任，”兰多说，“我的女儿们现在也把汉普顿当成了必去的地方，每个人都想过来看看。每个人都会这样说，我的周末是什么时候？”
As for the last rainy day, Mr. Landau worked on projects around the house. Mrs. Landau went to T.J. Maxx.
至于上次下雨的日子，兰多先生在房子周围干了些活儿。而兰多太太则去了T.J. Maxx商店。