TAIPEI, Taiwan — Twenty-five miles west of here on Taiwan’s rugged northwest coast, a cavernous warehouse under construction represents the new priorities for an island where the streets were once littered with piles of discarded electronics and other refuse.
台湾台北——在此地以西25英里（约40公里）的台湾西北沿海崎岖山地，一座巨大的仓库正在建设中；对于一个街道上曾经散落着大量废弃电子产品和其他垃圾的岛屿来说，这代表着它把优先重点放在了一些新的领域。
At the clean and tidy construction site, building materials are stacked neatly and even workers’ cigarette butts are carefully collected. The surroundings are designed to evoke a Roman villa, with lagoon, garden and canopies. The energy-saving shade tiles are made out of old CDs, DVDs and computer motherboards.
施工现场很干净，建筑物料堆放整齐，连工人的烟头都被小心翼翼地集中到了一起。从环境设计来看，这里像是一处带有礁湖、花园和檐篷的罗马别墅。节能遮阳砖用旧的CD、DVD和电脑主板制作而成。
It is the latest expansion effort in a vast industrial park that recycles electronics, glass, plastics, paper and just about anything than can be reused or mined for materials. When the warehouse project is complete, Super Dragon Technology, one of the island’s biggest recyclers, will be able to securely store gold and other precious metals.
这座仓库是一个大型工业园区的最新扩建项目，该园区回收电子产品、玻璃、塑料、纸张以及任何可以重复使用或者从中获得材料的东西。仓库项目完成后，台湾最大的废弃物处理公司之一佳龙科技(Super Dragon Technology)就可以安全地存储黄金和其他贵重金属了。
Trash is valuable here — the byproduct of a world now dependent on technology. Taiwan, which is home to a host of technology companies like Asus, Acer and HTC, produces more electronics per capita than any other country.
在这里，垃圾是有价值的——依赖科技的当今世界的副产品。台湾有很多科技公司，比如华硕(Asus)、宏碁(Acer)和宏达电(HTC)，人均电子产品产量比其他任何国家都多。
“Recycling became huge because of the electronics firms,” said Chen Wei-Hsian, the secretary general of the Formosa Association of Resource Recycling, an industry organization. “That’s why it’s grown from about 100 recycling outfits to over 2,000.”
“由于这些电子公司的存在，回收成了一件大事，”行业组织台湾资源回收协会秘书长陈伟圣说。“这就是为什么回收企业从大约100个发展到2000多个的原因。”
In 2012, waste companies had revenue of 65.8 billion Taiwan dollars, or $2.2 billion, according to the Industrial Development Bureau at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That is up from 24.9 billion Taiwan dollars a decade earlier.
台湾经济部工业局的资料显示，2012年，台湾废物处理公司的总营收为658亿新台币（约合人民币134亿元），10年前这个数字为249亿。
With gold accumulating in its vaults, Super Dragon is even considering a new venture, according to Ding Guo-tsuen, the company’s chief technical officer.
随着佳龙科技金库里黄金储量越来越多，公司首席技术官丁国村表示，他们甚至在考虑开办一个新的合资公司。
“We are thinking about changing to a precious metals trading business, because we can make pure gold at about 99.99 percent,” said Mr. Ding, adding that the company could apply to the London Bullion Market Association, a trade organization focused on the gold and silver market. “We have some great inventory.”
“我们正在考虑进军贵金属交易业务，因为我们可以把黄金提纯到大约99.99％。”丁国村说，“我们有一些很好的存货。”他还说公司可能会向伦敦金银市场协会(London Bullion Market Association)提交申请，那是一个专注于黄金白银市场的贸易组织。
The commercial efforts, along with a government fund and increased consumer awareness, have helped clean up the country.
商业方面努力，再加上政府设立的一个基金，以及消费者意识的提高，促进了台湾环境的清理改善。
The country has one of the highest household recycling rates in the world, roughly 42 percent, up from 5 percent in 1998, according to Taiwan’s Environmental Protection Administration. The development bureau estimates that the rate for industrial waste — the bulk of the country’s total — was about 80 percent last year, amounting to roughly 14 million tons.
台湾环境保护署的资料显示，其居民生活垃圾回收利用率位居全球前列，大约为42％，而1998年时这个数字仅为5％。工业局估计，占大头的工业废料回收率去年在80％左右，约为1400万吨。
The industry was born out of necessity.
回收行业是在不得已的情况下诞生的。
In the boom days of the 1980s and 1990s, factories in Taiwan made products as varied as plastic umbrellas and high-tech electronics for the rest of the world. As production soared, the land-poor island of 23 million people began running out of places to dump its waste.
在20世纪80年代和90年代的繁荣时期，台湾的工厂生产从塑料伞到高科技电子产品的各种产品，输送到世界各地。由于产量猛增，在这个2300万人口的、面积有限的海岛上，倾倒废物的地方逐渐用尽。
Mountains of fetid household waste rotted in the streets. Public and disused spaces became dumping grounds for some of the toxic waste from the industrial boom.
居民生活垃圾在街头腐烂，发出恶臭。工业发展产生的有毒废物倾倒在公共及废弃场所。
At the time, infrastructure to tackle the problem barely existed. Large-scale, commercial waste-processing facilities were scant. Few households recycled. And pulling valuable materials from scrapped technology was dangerous. Wu Yao-hsun, the chairman of Super Dragon Technology, says he believes he got cancer from the toxic processes used to extract gold, silver and other precious metals from the country’s discarded electronics.
当时，用来解决这个问题的基础设施几乎为零。对废弃物进行大规模、商业化处理的设施比较缺乏。居民生活垃圾很少进行回收。从报废的技术物资中回收有价值的材料相当危险。佳龙科技的董事长吴耀勋说，当时台湾从废弃的电子产品中回收金、银等贵金属的工艺流程是有毒的，他认为这就是自己患上癌症的原因。
“In the old days, nobody knew the dangers, they just knew there was money inside,” said Mr. Wu, who is now cancer-free. “The environmental problems were also huge. But the research and infrastructure were lacking. We had to modify our own machinery.”
“在过去，没有人知道这很危险，他们只知道这可以赚钱，”现在吴耀勋的癌症已经治好了。“环境问题很严峻。但缺乏研究和基础设施。我们不得不自己改动机器。”
With trash and toxic materials accumulating, public anger simmered over how local governments should deal with the problem. At the same time, a growing army of social activists, buoyed by the island’s first free presidential elections, demanded higher standards of living from a government that had focused on economic growth at any cost.
随着垃圾和有毒物质越积越多，民众对于地方政府应该如何处理这种问题怨声载道。与此同时，越来越多的社会活动者受到台湾首次自由选举总统的鼓舞，要求过去把重点放在经济增长上的政府不惜代价，提高民众生活质量的水平。
“There were mountains of trash on the streets,” said Yeh Chun-hsien, the president of the Chung Tai Resource Technology Corporation, a recycling company based in Taipei. “The government had to do something.”
“街上废品堆积如山，”位于台北的回收公司中台资源科技股份有限公司总裁叶俊显说。“政府不得不做点什么。”
In 1998, the government set up a fund to encourage recycling and reduce waste. Producers and importers now pay a fee based on the cost of collecting and recycling 33 types of goods, like glass, plastic, paper, aluminum containers, tires, batteries and electronics. With the money, Taiwan’s environmental agency then issues rebates to recycling companies.
1998年，政府设立了一项基金，鼓励回收和减少废品。现在，按照收集和回收玻璃、塑料、纸张、铝制容器、轮胎、电池和电子产品等33种商品的成本，生产商和进口商需要支付一定费用。收到钱后，台湾环保机构会将部分款项返还给回收公司。
“We spend about 6 billion dollars each year on subsidies to the recycling companies, which pay collectors, who then pay the residents. But it’s the incentives and the public educational programs that are key for our success,” said Lee Shou-chien of the Environmental Protection Administration’s Recycling Fund Management Board. He added that for many people, recycling had become “a daily habit they are accustomed to.”
“我们每年会拿出大约60亿美元补贴回收公司，它们会用这些钱雇人从居民那里收购废品。但我们成功的关键是那些激励机制和公共教育项目，”环境保护署资源回收管理基金管理委员会的李守谦说。他还说，对很多人而言，回收废品已变成“他们的日常习惯”。
The government also started the Taoyuan Environmental Science and Technology Park, the industrial complex where Super Dragon is building its third warehouse. The park offers incentives for recyclers of glass, plastic and electronics that use advanced technologies and invest in research and development to increase the island’s reuse rates.
政府还启用了桃园环境科学产业园区，佳龙科技工程正在这里建它的第三座仓库。该产业园区向回收公司提供优惠政策，鼓励它们在玻璃、塑料和电子产品的回收上运用先进技术，并在研发上做出投入，以提高台湾的回收再利用率。
“You are literally selling trash to people, so you have to think, who would do that without a clear efficiency benefit?” said Arthur Huang, founder of Miniwiz Sustainable Energy Development, which designed Super Dragon’s facility. Miniwiz, based in Taipei, is an architecture and product design firm that turns trash, including electronic waste, into products like cellphone cases, wine bottle holders and fire-resistant construction materials.
“这就是在把垃圾卖给别人，因此你必须得想想，如果不能明显地提高效率，谁愿意买呢？”小智研发有限公司创始人黄谦智说。佳龙科技工程的设施就是由小智公司设计的，这家建筑和产品设计公司总部设在台北，致力于将包括电子废品在内的废弃物变成手机壳、葡萄酒瓶架及防火建筑材料等产品。
Over the years, the industry, once largely made up of small and dangerous backyard operations, has developed its own high-tech expertise.
这个产业曾经主要由危险的小作坊构成，如今已经发展出了自己的高科技专业技能。
Chung Tai Resource Technology, which recycles glass and highly toxic chemicals like phosphorus and mercury, relied on European machinery when it opened in 2001. Mr. Yeh said the company had since refined the equipment to improve the process, developing a system to turn 95 percent of the mercury and other waste from lighting products into raw materials. Super Dragon has developed a processing technology that semiconductor makers use to spray superthin films onto their silicon wafers.
在2001年成立初期，回收玻璃、磷和汞等含毒量极高的化学物质的中台资源科技公司，很依赖欧洲产的设备。叶俊显说，自那以来，公司就在完善设备，改进回收过程，开发出一个机制，能将95%的汞和照明产品产生的其他废品变成原材料。佳龙科技工程开发出一项加工技术，半导体生产商可使用该技术将超薄膜喷到硅片上。
Manufacturers have also come to realize the value in their trash.
生产商也开始意识到自己的废弃物中包含的价值。
Companies like Chung Tai, one of the island’s largest light manufacturers, uses its own industrial waste as raw materials for new products. Others are selling their valuable waste to recyclers.
中台资源科技公司还是台湾岛最大的灯具生产商之一，包括它在内的公司，会用自己的工业废品作为生产新产品的原材料。其他企业则将它们宝贵的废品卖给回收公司。
“The electronics companies have a better idea about precious metals in their waste,” Mr. Ding of Super Dragon said. “When the gold price jumped to $1,800 to $1,900 an ounce, they got savvier about what they were throwing away. They used to pay us to pick up their refuse — now we pay them to collect it.”
“电子产品公司更了解它们废品中的贵重金属，”佳龙科技工程的丁国村说。“当金价升到每盎司1800到1900美元时，它们就更明白那些被它们扔掉的东西的价值。以前它们付钱给我们让我们捡废品——现在我们收废品要付钱给它们。”
The advances have spread beyond technology waste.
这种变化也出现科技废品之外的领域。
At the W hotel in the Xinyi District of Taipei, staff members wanted a solution for disposal of the 300,000 plastic water bottles the hospitality business churns through each year. Working with a group of local designers who had been awarded grants from the Taipei city government, the hotel is having the bottles turned into coasters, games and key- and change-holders for use throughout the property.
台北信义区的W酒店每年都产出30万个废弃塑料水瓶，员工们想要找到一个方案来处理这些水瓶。和当地一些得到台北市政府资助的设计师一起，酒店在将这些瓶子变成了杯托、游戏和钥匙零钱盒，放在酒店各处使用。
“Sustainability in our business is somewhat of an oxymoron,” said Cary Gray, the general manager at the W Taipei. “But it makes perfect sense to use it as a way to engage our community. There’s a level of education, awareness and social responsibility in this city, and the government is highly supportive of creative industries. People have embraced this culture.”
“在我们这一行，和可持续性是有点相反相成的，”台北W酒店总经理康儒革(Cary Gray)说。“但以此作为与社区互动的方式是完全行得通的。这座城市的教育程度、公众意识和社会责任都达到了一定水平，而且政府十分支持创意产业。人们已经接受了这种文化。”