It’s funny how story ideas develop — stray thoughts, random conversations, even children’s books can turn into a piece of journalism for The New York Times. My piece on the Inuit in northern Canada gathering mussels from under the ice at low tide was the result of a gift to my young son when we were living in Shanghai, China, 20 years ago.
故事点子的由来总是很有趣——零散的想法、随意的对话，甚至童书也可以变成《纽约时报》的一则新闻。我那篇关于加拿大北部因纽特人在退潮时从冰下采集贻贝的小文章，就来自于20年前在中国上海生活时，我年幼的儿子得到的一份礼物。
I don’t know from whom it came, but “Very First Last Time” — a book by a Canadian author, Jan Andrews — appeared among the piles of books in my son’s room. It’s a coming-of-age story about a young Inuit girl who is allowed to go under the ice to gather mussels for the first time alone. She loses her way as the tide returns but eventually finds her way out, declaring that it is the last time she will go under alone. The illustrations by the Canadian artist Ian Wallace portray a magical world full of color and light. I was enchanted, and ever since have wanted to travel to the Canadian Arctic and go under the ice myself.
我不知道这份礼物是谁送的，但是加拿大作家简·安德鲁斯(Jan Andrews)的《最后的第一次》(Very First Last Time)就这么出现在我儿子房间里的一堆书当中。这本书讲了一个因纽特女孩的成长故事，她第一次被允许在冰下独自采集贻贝。涨潮时她迷失了方向，但终于找到了回来的路，她宣布，这是她最后一次独自到冰下去。加拿大艺术家伊恩·华莱士(Ian Wallace)的插图描绘了一个充满色彩和光芒的神奇世界。我被迷住了，从那以后，我就想去加拿大的北极地区，亲身到冰下去体验一番。
When I returned to North America to cover Canada after decades overseas, my first goal was to get to the Arctic to see the mussel gathering first hand. It took time to plan. There is no cellphone coverage in most of the isolated Inuit villages, and finding a phone number for someone who could help took some time. When I succeeded, I was told that the Inuit go under the ice only from mid-February to mid-March, when the weather is coldest and the ice thick enough to be stable at low tide.
在海外度过了几十年，我重返北美，报道加拿大新闻，我的第一个目标就是去北极，亲眼看看采集贻贝的过程。这需要时间来做准备。绝大多数与世隔绝的因纽特人村庄不通手机，要花些时间才能找到可以帮忙的人的电话号码。成功之后，我被告知，因纽特人只有从2月中旬到3月中旬才会到冰下去，那时天气最冷，冰块也足够厚，在退潮时足够结实。
In the meantime, I did some research and learned about spring tides (when the earth, moon and sun align every two weeks) and tidal resonance (when the shape of a bay and the Continental Shelf collude to amplify the tide). Resonance is what makes the famously large tides in the Bay of Fundy. Northern Canada’s Ungava Bay is another place where the natural undulation of the ocean matches the length of the bay.
与此同时，我做了一些研究，了解了朔望大潮（当地球、月亮和太阳每两周排成一线时）和潮汐共振（海湾和大陆架的形状共同增强潮汐的力量）的情况。芬迪湾(Bay of Fundy)著名的大潮正是共振造成的。加拿大北部的昂加瓦湾(Ungava Bay)也是一个海洋自然起伏与海湾长度配合极好的地方。
Timing was a challenge: The tides reach their maximum range around the full and new moons, leaving only a three- or four-day window to go under the ice every two weeks. There are no roads linking the 14 villages of Nunavik, the northern Quebec territory that is homeland to the province’s Inuit. We would have to fly.
时机是一个挑战：潮汐在满月和新月时最强，每两周内，能进入冰下的时间只有三到四天。魁北克北部的努纳维克是该省因纽特人的家园，那里的14个村庄之间没有道路连接。我们必须坐飞机过去。
The photographer working with me, Aaron Vincent Elkaim, met me in Montreal for the flight to Kuujjuaq. There we boarded a lumbering Bombardier turboprop plane and watched the boreal forest give way to treeless, rocky tundra below.
我与合作摄影师亚伦·文森特·埃尔坎(Aaron Vincent Elkaim)在蒙特利尔会合，一起飞往库加克，我们在那里登上一架笨重的庞巴迪涡轮螺旋桨飞机，看着地面上的北方森林慢慢被没有树木、多岩石的苔原所取代。
The plane landed, everyone got off and we arranged a ride into town, only to discover that we were in the wrong town. Air Inuit operates like a bus, stopping at each village to drop off and pick up passengers, and we had gotten off too early. The fault wasn’t entirely ours — Aaron’s ticket was issued to the wrong place — but it meant that we had to wait a day for the next flight farther north.
飞机降落后，大家都下了飞机，我们乘车到了镇上，结果发现我们来错了镇子。因纽特航空公司(Air Inuit)像巴士那样运营，在每个村庄降落，接送乘客，我们下得太早了。这不完全是我们的错——亚伦的机票签错了地方——但这意味着我们得再等一天，等下一趟飞机把我们送到更靠北的地方。
That’s when the blizzard hit. It kept us trapped in the tiny town of Kangirsuk for three days as we watched our mussel-hunting opportunity wane with the latest full moon. Finally, the weather cleared and we flew to Kangiqsujuaq just in time. We managed to squeeze in three trips under the ice in the following days — though, as is often the case, the first day was the best.
这时，暴风雪来了。我们在坎吉尔苏克这个小地方困了三天，眼睁睁地看着采集贻贝的机会随着最新一轮满月的到来而渐渐消失。终于天气放晴，我们及时飞往坎吉苏加克。接下来的几天里，我们抓紧时间做了三次冰下之行，不过和通常的情况一样，第一天是最好的。
It was brutally cold above the ice, and I was warm only after I pulled a homemade Inuit anorak over my store-bought parka. Beneath the ice it was perceptibly warmer. Getting in and out, swaddled in layers of clothing, tested my aging frame. Both Aaron and I ended up with water in our boots, which is obviously a problem in subzero weather. I was shooting a 360 video, so setting up the camera was another challenge for me, as was photographing under the ice for Aaron. Because of the difference in temperature, the lenses fogged and then froze.
冰面上极其寒冷，我在从店里买来的派克大衣之外又套了一件手工缝制的因纽特带帽厚夹克，这才觉得暖和一点。冰下明显要更加温暖。裹在一层又一层衣服里进进出出，这完全是在考验我正在老去的身躯。我和亚伦的靴子里都进了水。在零下的天气里，这显然是个问题。我在拍摄一段全方位视频，因此安放摄像机是我面临的另一个挑战，就像亚伦在冰下拍照一样。因为温度的变化，镜头蒙上了一层雾，接着就被冻住了。
Though it didn’t look like the drawings in my son’s storybook, it was just as magical. The ice was curved and smooth and glowed in places from aquamarine to cerulean blue. In darker passages, it sparkled in the lamplight. The air was heavy and salty. Sounds were muffled except for the unnerving gurgle of running water, a reminder that this was a temporary space.
尽管看上去和我儿子那本故事书里的插图不一样，但整个过程还是一样奇妙。冰层时而平坦，时而弯曲，在有些地方会发出从浅蓝到蔚蓝色的光。在光线较暗的路段，冰层在灯下闪闪发光。空气沉闷，带着一股咸味。人们压低声音，只听见流水发出令人不安的汩汩声。它提醒着我们，这是一个临时的空间。
One of the Inuit men offered me a clump of kelp with his bare hand, showing me in the light that it was clotted with dense amber-colored fish roe. We ate the roe together, the eggs firm and chewy and cold. I had been warned not to make loud noises that could trigger a deadly collapse of the ice, but it appeared very stable to me. Nonetheless, it was unsettling to crawl on all fours where the ceiling was low.
一名因纽特男子用没戴手套的手递给我一把巨藻，并在灯光下指给我看，巨藻里裹着密密麻麻的琥珀色鱼卵。我们一起吃了起来，它们坚硬、耐嚼、冰冷。有人警告过我不要发出太大的声响，因为这可能会导致冰层崩塌，造成人员伤亡。但在我看来，冰层非常稳固。然而，手脚并用地爬过狭窄地段时，还是会感到不安。
The Inuit live with a lot of accidental death, most often people who have gotten lost in a blizzard and frozen in the snow. Others have set off on their snowmobiles never to return, presumably having sunk with their machines to the bottom of the glacial waters. Still, to live with nature is an amazing thing.
因纽特人经常遇到意外死亡事件，最常见的状况是在暴风雪中迷路，继而被冻僵。另外一些人驾驶雪地摩托车出发后就再也没回来，大概是连人带车在冰川水域沉了底。但是与自然共生，这依然是一件很有意思的事情。
Back above the ice, the sun was setting. The moon and Venus were clear and bright in the deepening blue sky. By the time we got back to the village, the sky was black and the eerie shimmer of the northern lights twisted and shifted in an ethereal dance overhead.
回到冰面上，夕阳正在西沉。变暗的深蓝色天空中，月亮和金星清晰可见，颇为明亮。我们返回村里时，天空已经黑了下来，北极光在头顶上诡异地闪耀，跳着飘渺的舞步。
Tiisi Qisiig, our rugged guide, brought us to his home to eat the mussels. The Inuit of northern Quebec are better off than those in many other places in Canada because of payments from hydroelectric and mining projects that have destroyed parts of their ancestral hunting grounds. The money has built tidy houses that sit above the ground on adjustable steel jacks to avoid melting the permafrost. The houses come with appliances and utilities, for which the Inuit pay a low subsidized rent. Yet traditions endure.
粗犷朴实的向导蒂西·吉西克(Tiisi Qisiiq)把我们带到他家吃贻贝。比起加拿大其他很多地方，魁北克北部因纽特人的生活条件更好一些，这是由于来自一些水电和矿业工程的款项——那些工程破坏了他们的祖先留下来的狩猎场。相关款项被用于建造整洁的房子，房子和地面之间隔着可调节式钢支柱，以免导致永冻土解冻。这些房子配有家电和实用设施，因纽特人仅需为其支付低廉的租金——他们享有租金补贴。不过，传统仍得以保持。
In addition to “store food,” families still eat frozen, raw caribou and Arctic char, a cousin of salmon, while sitting on the floor. It makes for an odd scene, plucked from an igloo and plopped on the linoleum in front of a humming refrigerator. They use a hatchet and a knife for chopping up the frozen meat, which they eat with their hands. Sometimes they dip the meat in beluga oil, which tastes oddly like blue cheese.
除了“店售食物”，人们仍然会生吃冰凉的驯鹿肉，以及鲑鱼的近亲红点鲑鱼的肉，而且是坐在地上吃。那场景有些古怪，仿佛是被硬生生地从一个冰屋里拔出来，安放在一台嗡嗡作响的冰箱前面的油毡上。他们用斧子和刀剁碎冻肉，用手送进口中。有时候他们会蘸点儿鲸油，那味道怪怪的，像是蓝纹奶酪。
Aaron and I helped de-beard the mussels, and then Tiisi’s wife, Siasi, boiled some for us to eat. The family prefers to eat them raw and so gathered around a bowl on the floor, shucking the mussels with the edge of a mussel shell, scraping out the meat and wringing it of seawater with their fists. Aaron and I ate the raw mussels, too. They are chewier than when boiled, and a bit bitter — but good. One of the rewards of reporting is being invited into people’s lives. Given the excuse, people like sharing — it’s good for the soul, as is a visit to the beautiful world beneath the ice.
我和亚伦帮忙去除贻贝的“胡须”，随后蒂西的妻子夏西(Siasi)煮了些贻贝给我们吃。这家人更喜欢吃生贻贝，于是他们围着一只碗席地而坐，用一个贝壳的边缘给贻贝去壳，把肉弄出来，攥在手中挤去海水。我和亚伦也吃了一些生贻贝。它们比煮过的更有嚼头，味道较苦——但很不错。当记者的一项回报就是可以受邀走进人们的生活。只要有个理由，人们都是很喜欢分享的——这就像探访冰下美丽世界的旅程一样有益灵魂。