GAZA CITY — My day here began at 6 a.m. Photographing something as unpredictable as war still has a routine.
加沙城——我在这里的工作早上6点钟开始。拍摄像战争这种不可预测的事件仍然有一套常规。
It is important to be out the door at first light to document the destruction of the last night’s bombings. By midmorning, I check in at the hospital’s morgue to see if families have come to pick up the dead for burial.
天刚亮就马上出门去记录昨晚轰炸的破坏程度很重要。上午过半，我去查看医院的太平间，看看家人是否已来领死者的尸体回去安葬。
When the routine is broken, it is because things can go horribly wrong in an instant. That is how it happened in Libya in 2011, when three colleagues and I were taken captive by government soldiers and our driver was killed.
如果常规被打破，那是因为在一瞬间发生了特别可怕的事情。正如2011年在利比亚发生的那次，我和三位同事被政府军士兵抓了俘虏，我们的司机被打死了。
On Wednesday, that sudden change of fortune came to four young Palestinian boys playing on a beach in Gaza City.
周三，命运的突然改变降临到在加沙城的海滩上玩耍的4个巴勒斯坦小男孩身上。
I had returned to my small seaside hotel around 4 p.m. to file photos to New York when I heard a loud explosion. My driver and I rushed to the window to see what had happened. A small shack atop a sea wall at the fishing port had been struck by an Israeli bomb or missile and was burning. A young boy emerged from the smoke, running toward the adjacent beach.
我在下午4点左右回到我住的一家海滨小酒店，正要把照片发送到纽约时，听到了巨大的爆炸声。我和我的司机跑到窗口去看发生了什么。渔港的海堤上边的一个小棚子被以色列的炸弹或导弹击中了，正在燃烧。一个小男孩从烟火中出现，跑向最近的沙滩。
I grabbed my cameras and was putting on body armor and a helmet when, about 30 seconds after the first blast, there was another. The boy I had seen running was now dead, lying motionless in the sand, along with three other boys who had been playing there.
我拿起相机，正在穿防弹衣、戴头盔时，又听到一个爆炸声，大约在第一次爆炸之后的30秒钟。我刚才看到的那个正在跑的小男孩现在已经死了，一动不动地躺在沙滩上，旁边还躺着3个别的小男孩，他们曾在那里玩耍。
By the time I reached the beach, I was winded from running with my heavy armor. I paused; it was too risky to go onto the exposed sand. Imagine what my silhouette, captured by an Israeli drone, might look like as a grainy image on a laptop somewhere in Israel: wearing body armor and a helmet, carrying cameras that could be mistaken for weapons. If children are being killed, what is there to protect me, or anyone else?
等我穿着沉重的防弹衣跑步来到海边时，已是上气不接下气。我暂时停步；去暴露的沙滩太危险了。想象一下以色列无人驾驶飞机捕捉到的我的剪影，在以色列某个地方的一台笔记本电脑分辨率不高的屏幕上看起来可能的样子吧：穿着防弹衣，带着头盔，拿着可能被误认为是武器的相机。如果儿童都被打死了，还有什么能保护我、或其他人呢？
I watched as a group of people ran to the children’s aid. I joined them, running with the feeling that I would find safety in numbers, though I understood that feeling could be deceptive: Crowds can make things worse. We arrived at the scene to find lifeless, mangled bodies. The boys were beyond help. They had been killed instantly, and the people who had rushed to them were shocked and distraught.
我看着一群人冲向孩子去救助他们。我加入了他们的行列，一边跑一边觉得也许人多能保险，尽管我知道这种感觉可能是自欺欺人：人群也许会让事情变得更糟。我们到达现场后，只看到了没有生命的、面目全非的尸体。男孩们已不可挽救。他们已经当场死亡，那些冲过来救他们的人深为震惊也悲痛欲绝。
Earlier in the day, I had photographed the funeral for a man and a 12-year-old boy. They had been killed when a bomb hit the car in which they were riding south of Gaza City, severely injuring an older woman with them.
当天早些时候，我已拍摄了一个男子和一个12岁男孩的葬礼。他们乘坐的小汽车在加沙城以南被炸弹击中，他们被炸死，与他们同在车中的一名老妇被严重炸伤。