Not far from the house where I grew up in Karachi, Pakistan, there was a children’s amusement park. It sat on top of a hill, its slides and swings beckoning children from the houses below. As summer vacations dragged on, my brother and I would hear the gleeful screams of other children, and we begged my mother to take us. It wasn’t an easy sell. “The swings are so rickety,” she would say one day. “Aren’t you afraid you will fall out of the spinning wheel?” she would say on another. We were a little afraid, but we ached to go. That park was the only one we knew, and if it was shabby, its toy horses and pretend cars worn and weary, it still held the promise of exhilaration.
我小时候生活在巴基斯坦卡拉奇，家的房子附近有座儿童乐园。它位于一座小山的山顶，里面的滑梯和秋千，总是能把孩子们从山下的房子里吸引过去。在悠长的暑假里，我和哥哥能听见其他孩子兴奋的尖叫声，我们央求妈妈带我们去玩。但这不是件容易的事。“那些秋千一点都不结实，”某一天她会说。另一天她又可能说：“你们不怕从转盘上掉下来吗？”我们有点儿害怕，但还是巴望着去那里。那是我们所知道的唯一一个儿童乐园，即便它有些寒酸，里边的玩具马和玩具车都破破烂烂，但它看起来依然可以带给人快乐。
Like children everywhere, we were drawn to being a little scared. That, after all, is the pull of the amusement park: small thrills ordered and anticipated, and then conquered, fear confronted and overcome. When we did get to go, our hearts pumped wildly at the crazy height of a swing, our breath raced as our bodies were flung about; all of it made us wild with joy. Like everywhere, there were small dangers: grim grown men who sat at the periphery, watching giggling children with beady eyes; boarded-up or broken rides, like ominous warnings of thrills gone wrong; beggars who beseeched us for the coins we clenched in our fists. But the heedlessness of childhood worked its wonders; the swings and the slides blurred them into the background.
像其他地方的孩子一样，一点点惊吓反而会吸引我们。毕竟，那才是儿童乐园的迷人之处：预定、期待然后克服小小的紧张感，面对并战胜恐惧。等到我们真的走进儿童乐园的时候，秋千荡到高处，我们的心脏猛烈跳动，身体荡来荡去，我们的呼吸变得急促；所有这些都让我们欣喜若狂。像其他地方一样，这里也有一些小小的危险：阴森的成年男性坐在远处，眼珠滴溜溜乱转，密切关注咯咯直笑的孩子们；被木板封住的或者破损的游乐设施，像在发出不祥的警告——寻求刺激会出岔子；还有一些乞丐向我们讨要攥在手心里的硬币。但童年特有的漫不经心发挥了作用；秋千和滑梯让我们把危险抛在脑后。
The children who died in Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park in Lahore on Sunday would have been riding those familiar crests of feeling: the wild joy of being high up or spun around mixing suddenly, grotesquely with the grim finality of death. Twenty-nine of the at least 72 dead were children, all of them, presumably, engaging in the child’s pastime of facing fear and surviving it. In the footage of the aftermath, their bloodied clothes and toys are strewn about; a green plastic toy car sits untouched in the rubble.
周日死在拉合尔古尔珊伊克巴公园(Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park)的那些孩子，应该体验到了那种熟悉的极其强烈的感觉：荡至高处或快速旋转的狂喜，突然非常荒诞地和死亡这种可怕的结局产生了联系。当天至少有72人遇难，其中包括29名儿童。可以想见，所有这些孩子当时都正沉迷于面对恐惧和战胜恐惧的游戏。事发后我们在镜头里看到，他们血迹斑斑的衣裳和玩具扔得到处都是；一辆绿色的塑料玩具车孤零零地停在废墟里。
Their deaths are a stern rebuke to the country that failed them and to the world that turns away from them. The lurking men of the playgrounds of my childhood are no longer predictable villains, the deviants and kidnappers who feature in the cautionary tales told to children around the world. They are assassins, their hearts harnessed with explosives, their bodies bundled with bombs. The mothers refusing their children a trip to the amusement park will now tell them not about a rickety swing but about a bombing. Even the resilience of the very young cannot dream that away; the shadow of terror encroaches on childhood.
他们的死亡，是对有负于他们的这个国家和毫不关心他们的这个世界的强烈谴责。眼下，游乐场里的潜伏者已经不是我小时候见过的那种预料之中的坏人，不是全世界的小孩都从警世故事里听到过的不轨之徒或绑匪。他们是杀手，他们的心底埋藏着炸药，他们的身体上绑着炸弹。现在，妈妈们拒绝带孩子去游乐园时不会说秋千不结实，而是说那里可能会发生爆炸。即便是孩子们那种强大的适应能力也无法将这种现实化成梦幻；恐怖主义的阴影笼罩了孩子的童年。
For much of the world, the deaths of Pakistani children are forgettable. They are, after all, the progeny of poor distant others destined to perish in ever more alarming ways. It may not be said, but it is believed that they are complicit in their own deaths, guilty somehow — even at 2 or 4 or 6 years of age — of belonging to a nation that the world has appointed as its own boogeyman, a repository of all its vilest trepidations. In December 2014, Taliban militants gunned down more than 140 people at a school in Peshawar, a vast majority of them students. A former American ambassador, speaking of his government’s lack of desire to help the Pakistani government fight extremists, put it succinctly: “There is great Pakistan fatigue in Washington.”
对世界上的很多人而言，巴基斯坦儿童的死亡很容易被遗忘。毕竟，他们是远方那些跟自己不相干的穷人的后代，注定要以不断变得更加惊人的方式死去。有人或许没说出口，但却相信他们自有取死之处，相信他们即便只有2岁、4岁或者6岁，也会有罪，只因为他们来自这个国家，而世人认为他们的祖国是恐惧之源，充满最令人厌弃的恐怖。2014年12月，塔利班激进分子在白沙瓦的一所学校枪杀了140多人，遇难者大多是学生。谈及美国政府缺乏帮助巴基斯坦对抗极端分子的意愿时，一位前美国大使直白地说：“巴基斯坦已经把华盛顿方面折腾疲了。”
In the media, too, it seems. Two days after Sunday’s attack, Lahore has disappeared from the top headlines. Pakistan’s pain has already been extinguished from the global news cycle, its catastrophe a news item and not — as in Paris or Brussels — a news event. The world has many demands on its meager stores of empathy. The children’s names, their pictures, the terrain of the park where they fell to bits will never be familiar to a mourning world. Efforts to make the dead children of Pakistan real and innocent, worthy of a tear and not just a tweet, start, sputter and fizzle.
在媒体上似乎也能看到这种情况。周日的袭击事件发生两天后，拉合尔就无法登上头条了。巴基斯坦的痛苦已经被人从全球新闻循环中清除了，它遭受的灾难是一条新闻，但却无法和巴黎或者布鲁塞尔的恐怖袭击相比，成不了爆炸性新闻。世人吝于付出同情心，而可以打动世人的事件又是如此之多。表达哀悼的人永远不会知道孩子们的名字，不会看到他们的照片，不会了解那个夺走他们生命的游乐场的地形。我们需要做点什么，让死去的孩子变得真实，让人感受到他们的无辜，让世人明白值得为他们的死落泪，而不仅仅是发一条推特，震惊，指责，然后遗忘。
The playgrounds of Pakistan have fallen silent for the moment as the country buries its dead children. As I think of them, my ears ring with the sounds carried down by the wind from the playground on the hill. We wished to go when we couldn’t, but even that longing for the playground has now been denied to Pakistani children. What children ache to do when they stand on top of a slide or swing high in the air is simply to face their fear and vanquish it. In this the dead children of Lahore are braver than their country, braver than the world, braver than all of us who are scared but cannot confront our fears.
在巴基斯坦埋葬死去的孩子之际，这个国家的所有游乐场都陷入了沉寂。当我想起他们的时候，耳畔仿佛传来了山顶那个游乐场里的声音。想当年，越是去不了我们越想去；但现在，巴基斯坦儿童连向往游乐场的权利都被剥夺了。孩子们站在滑梯顶端或者高高荡起的秋千上时，所渴望的只是面对恐惧和战胜恐惧。从这个意义上说，拉合尔那些死去的孩子比他们的祖国，比这个世界，比我们这些感到恐惧但却无法面对恐惧的人都更勇敢。