Beijing can be a pretty informal place. People walk outside in their pajamas, and when it’s hot some men lift up their shirts to expose their bellies.
北京这地方，可以相当地不正式。有人穿着睡衣在街上走，到天气热了，还有男士会把上衣掀起，露出肚子。
The authorities have determined that one place in China’s capital has gotten far too casual: the marriage registration office.
不过当局认为，在中国首都的一个地方，人们的穿着实在是太随意了。这个地方就是婚姻登记处。
“Some people wear sleeveless shirts and shorts, or slippers, to register their marriages,” Han Mingxi, head of the wedding registry office for the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau, told Beijing Daily. “You see them and can immediately tell their attitude toward the marriage registry is too casual. This can easily create all sorts of problems.”
“有的人穿着背心裤衩，或者穿着拖鞋就来办理婚姻登记了，”北京市民政局婚姻登记处处长韩明喜告诉《北京日报》。“一看就是对婚姻登记非常随便，这里面很容易产生许多问题。”
China has seen an increasing divorce rate in recent years, a phenomenon that has been especially pronounced in Beijing. While the number of couples marrying each year from 2011 to 2014 remained constant around 170,000, the number divorcing over those years climbed to 56,000 from 33,000, according to the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau.
中国近年来离婚率不断攀升，而这个现象在北京尤为突出。北京市民政局的数据显示，2011年到2014年间，当地每年的结婚对数稳定在17万左右，而离婚对数从3.3万增至5.6万。
As part of new rules going into effect on July 1, wedding registry officials will elevate the sense of ceremonial formality, Mr. Han told Beijing Daily. But unlike bouncers at an exclusive nightclub, registry officials won’t be able to turn away slovenly dressed couples. The new rules will not allow people to be blocked from having their marriages registered, Mr. Han said, but rather will call for officials to make suggestions about appropriate attire.
韩明喜告诉《北京日报》，按照今年7月1日施行的新规定，登记处的工作人员会强化婚姻登记的仪式感。不过，与高端夜店的守门人不同，工作人员无权拒绝给穿着随意的新人登记。根据韩明喜的说法，新规定不允许阻止民众进行婚姻登记，而是呼吁工作人员提出有关合适着装的建议。
A column on Nanfangwang, an online news outlet affiliated with the government of Guangdong Province, expressed support for the new rules. Although it acknowledged that some people might consider suggestions on wedding registration attire an example of regulatory overreach, it predicted that the proposal would have a positive effect on marriages.
广东省政府旗下的在线新闻媒体南方网刊出了一篇专栏文章，对北京的新规定表示支持。尽管文中承认，或许有人会认为有关婚姻登记着装的建议是管得太宽的表现，但作者预计，这会对婚姻产生积极影响。
“Of course, strengthening and advancing newlyweds’ understanding of marriage isn’t something that must be done,” the column said. “But if all newlyweds would treat the marriage registry with importance and pay attention to ceremony, then it would definitely help these newlyweds have a sense of the value and importance of marriage.”
“诚于中，形于外，确实有助于强化与增进新人对婚姻的认识，虽然并非必然，但当所有新人都能重视婚姻登记，注重仪式感，肯定能让进入婚姻的这些新人变得更懂得珍惜，懂得婚姻的重要性，”文中表示。