WASHINGTON — With sirens blaring, a fleet of limousines and security personnel raced down Pennsylvania Avenue twice in less than the last 24 hours to deliver Donald Trump to inauguration events.
华盛顿——过去不到24小时里，一队加长轿车和安保人员两度快速行进在宾夕法尼亚大道上，鸣着警笛护送唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)去参加就职活动。
But he was not heading to the White House. He was going to Trump International Hotel.
不过他去的地方不是白宫，而是特朗普国际酒店。
It was a telling destination for those visits Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. Perhaps more than any other location in Trump’s far-flung real estate empire, this 263-room hotel epitomizes the convergence of Donald Trump the global businessman and Donald Trump the president-elect.
对于在周三晚上和周四下午到访的人而言，这是一个很能说明问题的目的地。在辽阔的特朗普房地产帝国里，或许没有哪个地方比这座有263个房间的酒店更能体现国际商人唐纳德·特朗普和候任总统唐纳德·特朗普的相融共生。
Conflicts that for months have been theoretical are about to become real — most immediately a possible challenge by the federal government. It owns the building that houses Trump’s hotel and has granted him a 60-year lease. From the moment he is sworn in as president at noon Friday, Trump may be in violation of that lease, given a provision that appears to prohibit federal elected officials from renting the Old Post Office building, the Pennsylvania Avenue landmark that houses the hotel, from the government.
数月间一直存在于理论之中的利益冲突即将成为现实——最快浮出水面的质疑可能由联邦政府发起。它拥有特朗普的这座酒店所在的大楼，已经与之签订了为期60年的租约。从特朗普在周五中午宣誓就任总统的那一刻起，他也许就违背了租约，因为看起来其中有禁止联邦民选官员从政府手中租赁老邮局大楼的条款。这座大楼是宾夕法尼亚大道上的地标建筑。
Guests at the hotel include foreign diplomats and politicians who could be looking to curry favor with Trump — but even the act of paying their bills as they check out after the inauguration may open Trump to a challenge that he has violated the U.S. Constitution, which prohibits federal government officials from taking payments or gifts from foreign governments.
该酒店的客人包括可能想要讨好特朗普的外国外交官和政客——但在特朗普就职后，就连他们结账时买单的举动都有可能让特朗普被质疑违宪——美国的宪法禁止联邦政府官员收取外国政府支付的款项或赠与的礼物。
Members of Trump’s new Cabinet are also staying there this week, as are dozens of big-ticket donors to his presidential election campaign and inauguration. The hotel will also be the site of a prayer breakfast Friday before Trump is sworn in. All these bookings mean payments to the Trump Organization for the hotel rooms, meals and other accommodations.
本周，特朗普新内阁的成员也待在这里，还有数十名为他的总统竞选和就职活动奉上了大笔献金的捐赠者。周五，在特朗普宣誓就职前，还会有一场祈祷早餐会在该酒店举行。所有这些预定意味着特朗普集团(Trump Organization)会因该酒店提供了住宿、餐饮和其他服务而收到款项。
“That building is symbolic of the minefield that President-elect Trump has decided to walk through,” said Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, D-Md., who is ranking member on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is charged with investigating any potential wrongdoing by government officials. “We are going now from the hypothetical to reality — and I myself am not sure where it is going to lead.”
“候任总统已经决意在雷区穿行，而这栋大楼就是雷区的象征，”众议院监管和政府改革委员会(House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform)资深成员、马里兰州民主党众议员伊莱贾·卡明斯(Elijah Cummings)说。该委员会负责调查政府官员的任何潜在不当行为。“我们现在正从假设走向现实——我自己并不确定事情会发展到哪一步。”
Sean Spicer, Trump’s press secretary, defended Trump’s continued close ties to the hotel. “That he’s going to his own hotel? I mean, I think that’s pretty smart,” Spicer said. “I think the idea that he’s going to his own hotel shouldn’t be a shocker. It’s a beautiful place. It’s a place that he’s very proud of.”
特朗普的新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)为继续与该酒店保持密切关联的特朗普作了辩护。“他去自己的酒店？我的意思是，我认为这是一种非常聪明的做法，”斯派塞说。“我觉得人们不该对他去自己酒店的这种事感到震惊。那是一个很美的地方，是他非常引以为豪的一个地方。”
Spicer added: “It’s an absolutely stunning hotel. I encourage you all to go there if you haven’t been by.”
斯派塞还表示：“它绝对是一座令人惊叹的酒店。如果还没去过，我建议你们都去一下。”
The story of Trump and the Old Post Office began in August 2013, when the General Services Administration awarded Trump the contract that would allow him to develop the landmark tower.
特朗普和老邮局大楼的故事始于2013年8月，当时，特朗普从总务管理局（General Services Administration，简称GSA）那里拿到了一纸合约，获准开发这处地标建筑。
His children Ivanka, Eric and Donald Jr. each have a small stake in the company that holds the lease. Donald Trump, who owns the vast majority of the company, is the only family member with a financial interest in the project, however, investing roughly $2.4 million of his own money, records show.
他的子女——伊万卡(Ivanka)、埃里克(Eric)和小唐纳德(Donald Jr.)——分别在手握这份租约的公司中持有少量股权。而相关记录显示，唐纳德·特朗普拥有该公司的绝大多数股权，是家里唯一一个在该项目中拥有经济利益的人——他自行投入了大约240万美元。
The Post Office project is valued at roughly $200 million, much of it financed by Deutsche Bank, a favorite lender of the Trump Organization. The bank agreed to lend up to $170 million. The deal requires a Trump company to pay the government $3 million per year in rent from the hotel’s opening date.
老邮局大楼的估值约为2亿美元，开发资金的很大一部分来自颇受特朗普集团青睐的信贷机构德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)。该银行同意发放高达1.7亿美元的贷款。根据相关协议，自酒店开业之日起，特朗普的一家公司每年要向政府支付300万美元的租金。
“This is a location like no other,” Trump said in an interview in 2013. “You have the Capitol, you have the White House and right in the middle you have the Old Post Office.”
“这个地方独一无二，”特朗普在2013年的一次采访中说。“我们有国会山，有白宫，而老邮局大楼恰好位于两者之间。”
Trump was keen to begin construction and in 2014 boasted the hotel would open in time for the 2017 inaugural parade.
特朗普急于开始施工，并在2013年夸口说，该酒店将于2017年开业，正好能赶上总统就职游行。
At the time, however, few could have foreseen it would be Trump’s inauguration Washington would be celebrating, and the headache that would create.
不过，当时几乎没有谁能预见到，华盛顿要庆祝的是特朗普的就职，以及由此将会引发的问题。
The lease between the General Services Administration and the Trump company includes a clause — “no member or delegate to Congress, or elected official of the government of the United States or the government of the District of Columbia, shall be admitted to any share or part of this lease, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom” — that federal contract experts say makes clear that Trump will be in violation of the deal as soon as he is sworn in.
GSA和特朗普旗下公司之间的租约中有这样一条：“任何国会议员或代表，或经选举产生的美国政府或哥伦比亚特区政府官员，均不得持有该租约的任何股份或部分，或享有由此可能产生的任何利益”——联邦合同专家称，这清楚地表明，特朗普一旦宣誓就职就会违约。
“The basic integrity and credibility of the president of the United States of the federal procurement and contracting regime is at risk,” said Steven L. Schooner, a professor specializing in government procurement law at George Washington University. “We are about to have a legitimate scandal on our hands.”
“联邦采购与合同体制中的美国总统的基本操守和诚信面临着风险，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)专门研究政府采购法的史蒂文·L·斯库纳(Steven L. Schooner)教授说。“我们将迎来一桩真正的丑闻。”
Cummings, the Maryland Democrat, said he expected the GSA to declare the Trump Organization in breach of the contract. Renee Kelly, a spokeswoman for the agency, would not confirm that it intends to take such a move, saying only in a written statement that the “GSA won’t have an update until Friday after the inauguration.”
马里兰州民主党人卡明斯说，他预计GSA会宣布特朗普集团违约。GSA的女发言人勒妮·克利(Renee Kelly)未证实该机构有意如此行事，她只是在一份书面声明中表示，“GSA在周五的就职典礼结束前不会有新举动。”
Employees at the hotel — bellhops, bartenders, restaurant servers and housekeeping aides — are deciding if they will join the local hotel workers union, a process Trump recently agreed to allow without protest. Signature cards are being distributed to new employees at the hotel who will decide if they want to be organized.
该酒店的雇员——侍应生、调酒师、餐厅侍者和客房服务员——正就是否加入当地的酒店工会做出抉择。特朗普允许他们加入工会，未提出异议。签名卡正分发到酒店的新雇员手中，他们将决定是否想要被组织起来。
Labor disputes have ended up before the National Labor Relations Board, including one at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas. Members of the board will be picked by Trump.
劳动纠纷最终要由全国劳动关系委员会(National Labor Relations Board)做出裁决，其中包括一桩涉及拉斯维加斯特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel Las Vegas)的纠纷。该委员会的成员将由特朗普挑选。
“We want to get workers at the hotel organized, into a union and then negotiate a contract,” said John Boardman, president of the local, which represents about 7,000 hotel and casino workers in the Washington area.
“我们想要把这家酒店的工作人员组织起来，让他们加入工会，然后就合同进行谈判，”当地工会主席约翰·鲍德曼(Samantha Boardman)说，该工会代表着华盛顿地区约7000名酒店和赌场工作人员的利益。
Employees at the hotel who might have discrimination claims or claims related to overtime pay, worker safety or health could end up having them investigated by federal agencies overseen by people Trump appoints.
该酒店的雇员要是进行歧视投诉，或者就加班酬劳、工人安全或健康问题进行投诉，最终可能要接受联邦机构的调查，而那些机构的负责人会由特朗普任命。
And if the Trump hotel seeks to fill job vacancies with foreign guest workers — as Trump did at Mar-a-Lago, the resort he owns in Florida — the Department of Labor and the Department of Homeland Security would need to approve different aspects of the issuance of visas.
此外，如果特朗普旗下的这座酒店寻求雇用外籍客工——特朗普在马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)就这么做了——劳工部(Department of Labor)和国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)将需要就发放签证的方方面面进行核准。
“Him being an employer can only lead to complications,” said Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization that studies labor issues. “It is inherent in owning a business.”
“他的雇主身份只会让问题复杂化，”经济政策研究所(Economic Policy Institute)所长劳伦斯·米舍尔(Lawrence Michel)说，这是一家研究劳工问题的自由派研究机构。“拥有企业就必然会如此。”