Is class a more divisive issue at Harvard Business School than gender?
在哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)，与性别相比，阶级是否是更易引起学生之间的隔阂？
As soon as new students arrive, they are expected to write checks of $300 or $400 to their “sections,” the groups with whom they take first-year classes, if they want to participate in social events. In recent years, second-year students have organized a midwinter ski trip that costs over $1,000, while others, including members of “Section X,” a secret society of ultrawealthy students, spend far more on weekend party trips to places like Iceland and Moscow. Tickets to the winter ball, called Holidazzle, have cost $200 or more in recent years.
如果新生们想参加社交活动，一入学，他们就得给所在分部开一张300或400美元的支票，这些分部的成员都是与他们一起读大一的同学。近年来，大二的学生组织了一次隆冬滑雪之旅，每人花费超过1000美元，而对于其他人，包括X分部这个巨富学生组成的秘密社团的成员，他们的周末派对旅行是去冰岛和莫斯科这样的地方，花费更是高得多。近年来，名叫Holidazzle的冬季舞会，门票更是高达200美元或更贵。
When Christina Wallace, now the director of the Startup Institute, attended Harvard Business School on a scholarship, she was told by her classmates that she needed to spend more money to fully participate, and that “the difference between a good experience and a great experience is only $20,000.”
在新创协会(Startup Institute)主任克里斯蒂娜·华莱士(Christina Wallace)拿着奖学金读哈佛商学院（Harvard Business School，简称H.B.S）的时候，她的同学告诉她，为了能够充分参与活动，她得多花点钱，况且“一段良好的经历和一段非凡的经历之间，距离仅仅是2万美元。”
“Class was the bigger divide than gender when I was at H.B.S.,” said Ms. Wallace, who graduated in 2010.
“当我在哈佛商学院的时候，阶级的分水线比性别更明显，”2010年毕业的华莱士女士说。
In reaction to an article published in The New York Times on Sunday about Harvard Business School’s attempt to improve its atmosphere for women, many students, alumni and readers echoed her comments.
《纽约时报》周日刊登的一篇文章中谈到了哈佛商学院尝试为女性改善学校氛围，作为回应，许多学生、校友和读者给出了他们的评论，很多人认同华莱士的看法。
“A pervasive problem,” a member of the class of 2013 wrote on nytimes.com. Another member of the class said that she had borrowed tens of thousands of dollars a year to keep up socially, and that she never invited classmates to her parents’ home nearby because she did not feel it was lavish enough.
“这是一个普遍存在的问题，”2013届的一名学生在纽约时报网站上发表评论说。班里另一位同学说，为了维持社交活动，她每年要借数万美元，而且虽然父母的房子就在学校附近，她还从未邀请同学去过，因为她觉得那房子不够气派。
Many alumni from decades ago, including Suzy Welch, a former editor of The Harvard Business Review, said they were startled by the culture of spending that was depicted in the article, including the news that one student had lived in a penthouse apartment at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Boston. When Ms. Welch graduated in 1988, money mattered, she said in post on Twitter, “but conspicuous consumption events were rare.”
而几十年前的许多校友，包括《哈佛商业评论》(The Harvard Business Review)前主编苏西·韦尔奇(Suzy Welch)表示，他们对文章中描述的消费文化感到吃惊。《纽约时报》这篇报道中还有一则消息称，有位学生住在波士顿文华东方酒店(Mandarin Oriental Hotel)的顶楼公寓。当韦尔奇女士在1988年毕业的时候，钱还很重要，她在Twitter上写道，“但很少有炫耀式的消费活动。”
A reader named Ken H said that the tone at the school in the 1970s was downright egalitarian, and that anyone who “flashed money around” would have earned jeers. “Maybe what has changed isn’t so much H.B.S., but America,” he said.
一位名叫肯(Ken H)的读者说，在20世纪70年代，学校里的基调是完全平等的。谁要是到处大手大脚花钱摆阔，是会被嘲笑的。“也许哈佛商学院并没有变，而是美国变了，”他说。
The Harvard Business School student body is at least somewhat economically diverse, with 65 percent of students on financial aid, receiving an average grant of $60,000 over the two-year program, according to a spokesman. (Tuition costs more than $50,000 per year.)
哈佛商学院的全体学生多少有些经济上的差别，据发言人表示，学校65%的学生享有助学金，在为期两年的项目中平均每人获得了6万美元的奖学金。（哈佛每年的学费超过5万美元。）
The class of 2013 included former members of the military, children of struggling single mothers and a former butcher, among many others. But just as the school has made efforts in recent years to draw students from a wide array of economic backgrounds, the global elite has been accumulating far more wealth and the American income divide has been growing.
2013届毕业的学生背景多样化，除了许多其他类的学生，还有复员军人，生活困难的单身母亲的孩子以及一位前屠夫。但近年来，正当哈佛商学院努力录取一大批来自不同经济背景的学生时，全球精英正在积累着更多财富，且美国人的收入差距正在不断扩大。
The result is a school that mixes students of relatively modest means with extremely wealthy ones, including in recent years the children of Leon Black, a private equity investor, and Gerald D. Hines, the founder of one of the world’s largest real estate firms, among many others. In interviews, some students mentioned the Instagram feed of Michael Hess, a member of the class of 2013, who has posted photographs of Mick Jagger close-up in concert, courtside seats at a Knicks game and stops on his trips around the world.
结果是资源相对普通的学生和极其富有的学生混合在这所学校，近年来录取的许多学生中，有里昂·布莱克(Leon Black)和杰拉尔德·海恩斯(Gerald D. Hines)的子女，两位分别是私募股权投资人和世界上最大的房地产公司之一的创始人。在采访中，一些学生提到了在图片分享应用程序Instagram上分享照片的2013届毕业生迈克尔·赫斯(Michael Hess)。他上传的照片包括拍摄于一场音乐会上的米克·贾格(Mick Jagger)的近距离照片，以及纽约尼克斯队比赛的场边座位和他环游世界的经停站。
Many Harvard business students and readers were especially troubled by Section X, and the idea that even within the extremely elite confines of one of the nation’s premier business schools, the ultrawealthy are segregating themselves.
一方面是X分部的存在，另一方面，它竟然存在于这个精英云集的全美最出色的商学院之一，这让许多哈佛商科学生和读者尤为困扰。巨富们正在把自己与大众隔开。
“There is this underbelly at H.B.S. of extremely wealthy individuals — spoiler alert, I am not one of them,” said Brooke Boyarsky, who delivered a triumphant speech at graduation about social change at the school.
“在哈佛商学院的巨富学生们有弱点——剧透一下哦，我并不是他们中的一位，”布鲁克·波伊阿斯基(Brooke Booyarsky)说，他在毕业时发表了一场成功的演讲，谈论学校里的社交变化。
According to students, the members are mostly male and mostly international students from South America, the Middle East and Asia. They organize “the real parties, the parties where it’s a really limited list, the extravagant vacations — I mean really extravagant,” she said. (No students interviewed admitted to being members of the group, though some said they had attended its parties.)
据学生们表示，X分部的成员大多数是男性，而且大多是来自南美、中东和亚洲的国际生。他们组织“真正的派对，在那些派对里，受邀人数有限，奢侈的度假——我说的是极度奢侈，”她说。（受访的学生虽然有的说他们参加过这个分部的派对，但都不承认自己是该分部的成员。）
“More than once I heard that ‘the only middle-class students here are the Americans,'” another recent graduate said.
“我不止一次听说，‘在哈佛，中产阶级都是美国人，’”另一位刚毕业的学生说。
Even though Section X is hard to pin down — some students said they did not believe it existed at all — it causes enormous resentment on campus, starting with its name. Every Harvard Business School class is organized into 10 sections labeled A through J, and the name Section X implies a pulling away from the wider community.
虽然要确定X分部很难——有些学生说他们根本不相信这个分部的存在——但它在学校里引起了巨大的不满，这一不满可以从名称说起。哈佛商学院的每个班级由名字从A到J的10个分部组成，而X分部的这个名称意味着它脱离了学校的大环境。
“The Section X dynamics really deteriorate the section togetherness,” said Kate Lewis, a 2013 graduate who edited the school newspaper. By the end of this academic year, Section X had become an adjective on campus for anything exclusive and moneyed, with one student talking about a “mini Section X dynamic” within her real section.
“X分部真正减弱了分部之间的团结度，”2013年毕业的校报编辑凯特·刘易斯(Kate Lewis)说。在本学年末，X分部已经成了学校里一切富人专享事情的代名词，已经有位学生谈论，要在她所在分部里建立一个“迷你版动态X分部”。
Asked in an interview about Section X, Nitin Nohria, the school’s dean, sounded crestfallen because he had hoped the group had disappeared. “I thought it had pretty much been on its fingernail edges,” he said.
在一次对院长尼丁·诺瑞亚(Nitin Nohria)的采访中，当被问到X分部时，他显得很沮丧，因为他本希望这个分部已经消失了。“我以为它已经没有容身之处了，”他说。
After hearing complaints from students, the co-presidents of the class of 2013, Kunal Modi and Laura Merritt, worked to introduce less expensive activities, including trivia nights, visits by food trucks and coffee hours. They persuaded administrators to install lawn furniture on campus so students would have another setting where they could relax without spending money.
在听到学生们的报怨后，2013级的联合校长库纳·莫迪(Kunal Modi)和劳拉·梅利特(Laura Merritt)开始引入花费更低的活动，包括智力问答之夜，造访食物车和咖啡时光。他们说服学校管理者在学校里配上草坪设施，以给学生们提供另一种无需花钱的放松环境。
To help bring the school’s culture back down to earth, Thomas J. Peters, a co-author of “In Search of Excellence” who has spoken at the Harvard Business School and has been a frequent critic of business education, suggested that the school apply a simple admissions rule: anyone from an ultraprivileged background needs to have done something of significant social value to be admitted.
为了让学校的文化重接地气，《追求卓越》(In Search of Excellence)的合著者托马斯·彼得斯(Thomas J. Peters)建议学校采用一个简单的录取原则——任何来自超特权背景的学生，只有做过一些有重要社会价值的事才能被录取。托马斯·彼得斯曾在哈佛商学院演讲且经常批评商学教育。
“If you’re 27 years old and you’ve been given a lot of money, that’s plenty of time to have done something,” he said, adding that he and many of his friends at Stanford Business School in the 1970s were veterans. “Why can’t that be in the admissions criteria flat out?”
“如果你27岁而且已经有了许多钱，你应该有充足的时间做成过一些事，”他进一步说，他在20世纪70年代入读斯坦福商学院(Stanford Business School)，当时他和许多同学是退伍军人。“为什么这不能成为一个明确的录取标准？”
For their part, students suggested that the school draw on its enormous resources — its endowment is over $2 billion — to supply financial aid for basic extracurricular activities like section events.
从学生们的角度来说，他们建议学校利用其超过20亿美元的巨额捐赠资源，为基本的课外活动，如分部活动，提供经济补助。
As dean, Mr. Nohria has been known for fostering frank conversations about social issues, but it is hard to say if Harvard Business could ever mount a true effort to resolve class issues on campus along the lines of the one on gender.
作为院长，诺瑞亚先生以促进围绕社会问题的坦率对话而出名，但哈佛商学院是否能够沿着解决性别问题的方向，在学校里真正努力去解决阶级问题还很难说。
Many of the school’s top donors and alumni are members of the same ultramoneyed culture that some students criticize. And because many students attend business school in the specific hope of building a network of influential contacts, they tend to fear offending anyone, especially wealthy classmates who might one day provide connections and financing.
学校里许多重要捐助人和校友都来自于受到一些学生批评的巨富群体。而且，由于许多学生之所以就读商学院，就是希望建立一个有影响力的人脉网络，因此他们害怕冒犯任何人，尤其是有钱的同学，可能有一天这些同学还能提供人脉和资金。
“The No. 1 thing you should take away from the comments section on this post is that no one is putting their real name,” one member of the class of 2013 wrote on nytimes.com, citing fear that strong opinions “could limit future options.”
“你该做的第一件事，就是在这个帖子的评论部分把回复人的真名删掉，”2013届的一名学生在纽约时报网站上发表评论说，过于强烈的观点“可能会限制今后的机会。”
“Without strong opinions, backed by passion, it’s unlikely that anything will change at H.B.S. in the near term,” the commenter said.
“没有强烈的、由热情支撑的观点，在短期内，哈佛商学院会有任何变化是不太可能的，”这位评论者说道。