SÃO PAULO, Brazil — I live in Mandaqui, a district six miles from downtown. The nearest subway station is roughly two miles away, or about 30 minutes by bus, since they’re slow and scarce. It’s not the best place to live if you don’t have a car. Even so, the average price per square foot here recently soared to $250. Real estate in prime areas of the city can now cost as much as $465 per square foot.
巴西圣保罗——我住在距离市中心六英里（约合10公里）远的曼达基区(Mandaqui)。最近的地铁站大约两英里远，由于公交车很慢且很少，乘公交大约需要30分钟才能到达地铁。如果你们没有车，这不是一个最适合居住的地方。即便如此，这里的房屋均价最近已经飙升至每平方英尺250美元（约合1540元人民币）。该市最佳地段的房价现在最高可达每平方英尺465美元。
In the last six years, housing prices in São Paulo have increased by 208 percent, and the cost of rent has increased 97.5 percent in the metro area. According to the website Numbeo, which compiles user-generated data, a 970-square-foot apartment here costs the equivalent of 16 years of an average family’s total income. By comparison, this cost-to-income ratio is eight in New York, 6.9 in Berlin and only three in Chicago. Someone making the minimum wage in Brazil ($325 a month) can afford to rent only a three-room shack in the crime-ridden Favela Paraisópolis ($280), leaving him practically nothing left over to live on.
在过去六年中，圣保罗的房价上涨了208%，都会区的租金上涨了97.5%。据整合用户生成数据的网站Numbeo透露，一所970平方英尺（约合90平方米）的公寓的售价相当于一个一般家庭16年的收入。相比之下，纽约的这一成本收入比为8：1，柏林是6.9：1，芝加哥只有3：1。巴西收入水平最低（325美元/月）的人群只能在犯罪频发的帕来索波里斯贫民窟（Favela Paraisópolis)租用三室棚屋，租金为280美元，付完房租后，他们几乎所剩无几。
Brazil is experiencing a severe housing shortage. According to the Inter-American Development Bank, one in three families lives in inadequate housing. The country has an estimated shortage of 5.8 million units, of which 90 percent is concentrated on lower-income families. According to research by the João Pinheiro Foundation, 442,710 households in São Paulo spend 30 percent or more of their income on rent. These families are in danger of joining 44,699 other households living in precarious conditions and 83,011 in which more than three family members are squeezed into the same bedroom — an overcrowding solution to a dead-end situation.
巴西正面临严重的住房不足问题。美洲开发银行(Inter-American Development Bank)称，三分之一的家庭面临居住面积不足的问题。据估计，巴西约缺580万套住房，其中低收入家庭占90%。根据若昂·皮涅罗基金会(João Pinheiro Foundation)的研究，在圣保罗，有442710户家庭的房租占收入的30%或者更多。这些家庭极有可能像其他44699个家庭一样居住危险的房屋中，或者像另外83011户家庭一样，超过三名家庭成员挤在同一间卧室里——通过多人挤住解决这个棘手问题。
More and more, the poor are pushed away from the city and forced to live in the far suburbs. And more and more, those suburbs also expel them. In Capão Redondo, 14 miles from downtown, the average housing price increased 312 percent in the last five years.
越来越多的穷人被迫离开城市，住到遥远的郊区。逐渐地，他们连郊区也住不起了。在距离市中心14英里的卡庞雷东多区(Capão Redondo)，房屋均价在过去五年中涨了312%。
It’s no wonder we’re the country of favelas, urban slums built by desperate people using poor materials such as cardboard and tin. They pop up in areas without basic infrastructure or sanitation, and are sometimes vulnerable to landslides, floods and fires.
我们是贫民窟之国，这不足为怪，绝望的人们用硬纸板和锡等低劣材料在城市建造贫民窟。这些贫民窟突然出现在那些没有基础设施和卫生设备的地区，有时候容易被滑坡、洪水及大火摧毁。
In early 2009, the government took note and began a program called Minha Casa, Minha Vida (My House, My Life). The public-private partnership aimed to reduce this deficit by facilitating credit and financing construction.
在2009年早些时候，政府注意到这一点，并创建了一个名为“我的家，我的生活”(Minha Casa, Minha Vida)的项目。这个公私合作的项目旨在通过推进信贷，资助建造工作来减少逆差。
But from the beginning, it favored families that earned three times the minimum wage or more. As of 2012, after the first and second stages of the program, only 40 to 45 percent of all contracts were assigned to the poorest families. The program appeared to be more about improving the economy than helping the poor. Many critics also complained about the quality of the 344-square-foot houses destined for the poorest, which were built in remote areas without adequate infrastructure.
但从一开始，受益的是那些收入水平达到最低工资的三倍或更多的家庭。截至2012年，在项目的第一及第二阶段结束后，只有40%至45%的房屋分给了最贫穷的家庭。该项目貌似更多的是促进经济发展，而不是帮助穷人。很多批评人士还抱怨称，政府为穷人提供的344平方英尺的房屋存在质量问题，这些房屋建在偏远地区，没有足够的基础设施。
Although the government has promised to correct those deficiencies in the third stage of the program, any reforms will most likely be hobbled by the influence of the housing industry. According to the investigative news website Publica, from 2002 to 2012 Brazil’s four biggest construction companies donated $215 million to the political campaigns of all major parties. In the last municipal elections in São Paulo, construction and real estate companies were responsible for 57 percent of donations. These companies have deep interests in sustaining the old urbanization model marked by segregation and inequality.
虽然政府承诺在第三个阶段中改进不足，但改革可能会遭到住房产业的阻碍。据调查新闻网站Publica报道，从2002年至2012年，巴西的四大建筑公司为各大政党的政治竞选活动捐赠了2.15亿美元。在圣保罗市的选举中，57%的捐款来自建筑及房地产公司。对于这些公司来说，维持以隔离和不平等为特点的旧的城镇化模式具有深层利益。
One of the strongest groups fighting these issues is Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem-Teto — the Homeless Workers Movement — which combines negotiation with the government and direct confrontation on housing issues. The group has 50,000 families enrolled as members nationwide and 20,000 in São Paulo, where, on a rainy Thursday just before the World Cup, it led 15,000 people in a protest against evictions and overspending on the event.
“流浪工人运动”(Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem-Teto)是努力与该问题抗争的最强大的组织之一。该组织一边与政府谈判，一边直接面对住房问题。全国范围内有五万个家庭注册成为该组织的会员，其中圣保罗有两万个会员。在世界杯之前的一个阴雨绵绵的周四，该组织领导1.5万人在圣保罗举行抗议活动，反对迫迁，耗巨资举办世界杯。
The organization also advocates the occupation of abandoned buildings or areas that are kept vacant by real estate companies (some of them bankrupt); the resistance of forced evictions; and the government expropriation of housing for, as written in our Constitution, “public necessity.” Its leaders also quote our Constitution when saying that “property shall observe its social function,” and that the economic order is “intended to ensure everyone a life with dignity, in accordance with the dictates of social justice.”
该组织还提倡占领被房地产公司（一些已经破产）闲置的废弃建筑和区域；反抗强行迫迁；呼吁政府依据《宪法》所说的“公共需要”没收住房。该组织的领导者还援引《宪法》称，“房屋应该发挥社会功能，”经济秩序“是为了确保每个人有尊严地活着，遵循社会正义的要求。”
For many years, the Homeless Workers Movement has endured fierce opposition from the public and the news media. But in the last few months, it has amassed some important victories. A month before the World Cup, more than 2,000 families squatted in an area that had been abandoned for years, near the Itaquera stadium, one of nine occupations in São Paulo. (The biggest of them, Nova Palestina, has had roughly 8,000 families camped out since November.) In a matter of weeks, the protesters near Itaquera got the government to agree to build low-income housing on the site as an extension of the My House, My Life program.
多年来，“流浪工人运动”遭到公众及新闻媒体的强烈反对。但在过去几个月中，该组织获得了一些重要胜利。在世界杯开赛前的一个月，2000多个家庭擅自占住在伊塔盖拉(Itaquera)体育场附近已被闲置多年的区域，这里是圣保罗的九大居住区之一（其中最大的是诺瓦帕拉斯蒂纳区[Nova Palestina]，自11月以来，约有8000个家庭暂住在该区）。在几周的时间里，伊塔盖拉附近的抗议者迫使政府同意在该区建造保障性住房，扩展“我的房屋，我的家”项目。