A POPULAR Indian historian once remarked to me that India is a country where men don’t age well, and of no one is this observation truer than of Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar, a man who is, at 40 years and some 200 days, the oldest member of India’s cricket team.
一名广受欢迎的印度历史学家曾对我说，在印度，上了年纪的男人们不愿放手，萨钦·拉梅什·泰杜尔卡(Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar)最为真实地体现了这一点，将满41岁的泰杜尔卡是印度板球队年纪最大的队员。
But let me first be complimentary. Mr. Tendulkar, whom everyone calls Sachin, is the most revered cricketer in India; in fact, it would be entirely accurate to describe him as the most revered contemporary Indian, or even, with only a pinch of hyperbole, the most revered Indian since Mahatma Gandhi held the nation in thrall. Suspend your disbelief and think of him as a cross between Babe Ruth and Martin Luther King.
但先让我称赞一番。大家谈到泰杜尔卡时都叫他萨钦，他是印度最受人尊敬的板球运动员。实际上，称他是当代最受尊敬的印度人也是完全准确的，略微夸张一点的话，甚至可以称他是自圣雄甘地(Mahatma Gandhi)让印度举国崇敬以来最受尊敬的印度人。请停止怀疑，把他想象成贝比·鲁斯(Babe Ruth)和马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King)的混合体。
Sachin currently dominates India’s imagination even more than usual: Today, in his native Mumbai, he will begin playing his 200th test match (as the five-day version of cricket is called), when India takes on the West Indies, a once-mighty team now fallen on hard times. It will also be his last test match, for he will retire from competitive cricket after the game. As the moment of his departure looms, the country is in the fevered throes of one last, mammoth celebration, but also on the un-self-conscious brink of mourning. As Nehru said on Gandhi’s death, so India will say on the day Sachin hangs up his white cricket flannels: “The light has gone out of our lives and there is darkness everywhere.” (India mourns in purple prose.)
萨钦正以超出寻常的程度主宰着印度的想象力：今天，他将在故乡孟买参加第200场国际板球锦标赛（为期五天的板球比赛），印度将对抗西印度群岛队(West Indies)，这支曾经非常强大的队伍现在境况不佳。这将是他最后一次参加国际板球锦标赛，这场比赛结束后，他将退出竞技板球运动。随着他退役时间的临近，印度陷入了举行最后一场激动人心的盛大庆祝活动的狂热之中，同时也在不知不觉中处于哀痛边缘。就像尼赫鲁(Nehru)在甘地去世的时候所说的：“我们生活中的那盏明灯熄灭了，周围一片漆黑。”（印度习惯以华丽的散文进行悼念。）在萨钦挂起他的白色板球服的那一天，全印度的人也会这么说。
At the same time, there is also, remarkably, an unsentimental view of Sachin, which is that he should have retired two years ago (or more), that he has stayed at the wicket much too long.
与此同时，对于萨钦，印度也存在不带感情色彩的看法，认为他应该在两年前（或更早的时候）退役，他在球场上待了太长时间。
There is no Indian tradition of graceful retirement. The inherent human vanity of an authority reluctant to cede the public stage is reinforced by a culture of adulation, of shrieking, ululating crowds, of an uncritical elevation of heroes to godlike status by devotees who will not let go. In politics, in cinema, even in corporate business houses, old Indian men do not fade into the sunset. They hobble on and on. And when they die, they are “kept alive” by heirs who succeed them: sons, daughters, wives. Sport, by its very nature, is different: there is no elegant case for heirs on a cricket team, and the body imposes its own laws of retirement.
印度没有优雅谢幕的传统。不愿退出公共舞台的权威人物抱有人类固有的虚荣心，而增强这种虚荣心的是，印度有一种阿谀奉承、尖叫哀嚎的文化，无法放手的崇拜者们不加批判地将英雄们奉为神一般的人物。在政界，在电影界，甚至是商界，都有上了年纪的印度男人不愿放手。他们就这样一直撑着。当他们去世的时候，接替他们的继承人——儿子、女儿和妻子会延续他们的影响。体育在本质上有所不同：没有体面的理由让儿子接替父亲参加板球队，而且板球协会实行自己的退役规定。
Yet Sachin and his fans have tried their best to defy those natural laws. After all, idolatry is an Indian art form. Some Indian gods have three heads, or 10 arms. Others have serpents coiled around their torsos, or rivers streaming from their heads. And one, Sachin, wields a sacred cricket bat, heavy, sweet, made of the finest willow.
但萨钦和他的粉丝尽其所能地违抗这些自然法则。毕竟，盲目崇拜是印度的一种艺术习俗。一些印度神灵有九个头或十个臂膀。其他神灵则有巨蛇缠绕在他们的躯体上，或者河流发源于他们的头部。而萨钦也是一个神灵，他挥舞着神圣的板球拍，由最上乘的柳树制成的沉重的、好闻的拍子。
In a land of chronic inefficiency, he was remorselessly efficient; in a land with a global inferiority complex, he was the best in the world; in a land where public figures are strutting peacocks, he was often a picture of painful humility; in a land that thirsts for self-respect, Sachin spelled pride.
在这个长期缺乏效率的国家，他的效率高得无情；在这个在世界面前具有自卑情结的国家，他却是世界第一；在这个公众人物往往热衷炫耀的国家，他却总是表现得极度谦卑；在这个渴求自尊的国度，萨钦标志着骄傲。
When he first played for India — in 1989, at age 16, against the old enemy, Pakistan — the country was adrift economically. National morale hit a nadir in 1991, with India pawning gold reserves to stay afloat. Sachin’s blossoming coincided with the economic liberalization that followed, and his cricketing splendor tracked a healthy, sometimes rollicking, growth rate. In his success, he embodied a new Indian self-image. Other heroes have since emerged: younger, brasher, like the New India itself, but Sachin’s heroism reminds the country of a more vulnerable time, and he is loved the more for that.
他首次代表印度参赛时——那时是1989年，他当时16岁，对抗的是老对头巴基斯坦——印度在经济上死气沉沉。1991年，当印度为了保持运转而典当黄金储备时，国民士气陷至谷底。随后，当萨钦英姿勃发的时候，印度正在实行经济自由化。他在板球方面的辉煌战绩伴随着健康（有时堪称迅猛）的经济增长率。他的成功代表了印度一种新的自我形象。从那以后，印度还涌现了一些其他英雄，他们更年轻、更无畏，就像新的印度一样。但是，萨钦的英雄事迹总会让印度人回想起一个更艰苦的年代，正因如此，人们对他爱戴有加。
In purely sporting terms, however, he is but a shadow of his old self, in which he shone as one of the three or four finest players cricket has produced in its long, languorous history. He is now merely a “good” or “better than average” player. Had he been only 24 and this proficient, he’d be an honest contender for a place on the national team. But he is now so much less good than he once was that, when he plays, the more dispassionate among us can see only an ugly gulf between Sachin’s apogee and his plateau.
然而，单纯从体育的角度来看，他只是过去那个自己的影子。过去那个他，是板球运动漫长而倦怠的历史上涌现出来的三四名最优秀球员之一。如今，他不过是一个“好的”或者“高于一般水平的”选手。如果他只有24岁，而且拥有现在的这种技术，他必将成为入选国家队的有力竞争者。但是，如今的他远不如当年那样出色；当他上场时，我们当中那些比较不带个人感情的人，只能看到萨钦的巅峰时期和表现平平时期之间那种令人尴尬的差距。
There is more: For a man who built his reputation not just on supreme batsmanship but also on his unwavering modesty, impeccable manners and an evident pleasure in being part of (and never greater than) the team on which he played, there has been an unlovely whiff of selfishness in his reluctance to give way to younger players, in his limpetlike clinging to his place, and in his relentless pursuit of milestones. No cricketer has ever played 200 test matches before. No other cricketer will. Sachin managed the feat only because he has batted on for 24 years.
此外：萨钦的名誉不仅建立在高超的击球技术之上，还建立在他一贯的谦逊、无可挑剔的言行以及作为团队一员（从未超越这个团队）那种明显的喜悦之上。对于这样一个人而言，不愿让位给年轻选手、像䗩一样抓住自己的位置不放以及对里程碑的不懈追求，都包含着些许不太可爱的自私。以前从来没有哪位板球运动员打过200场国际板球锦标赛，以后也不会有。萨钦能取得这一成就，只是因为他打了24年板球。
But we shouldn’t blame Sachin. In any other land, he would have aged, recognized the limitations brought on by age ... and moved on. India has not let him do so. It is India, by its corrosive love, that has betrayed Sachin Tendulkar.
但是，我们不应该指责萨钦。在另一个国家，他会随着年龄增长而成熟，意识到年龄所带来的局限性……然后改变人生道路。印度没有让他这么做。是印度用腐蚀性的爱背叛了萨钦·泰杜尔卡。