AN EDWARDIAN MANSION IN THE ROSEDALE NEIGHBORHOOD
一栋位于多伦多市罗斯戴尔社区(ROSEDALE NEIGHBORHOOD)、具有爱德华时期建筑风格的豪宅
$4.57 MILLION (5.195 MILLION CANADIAN DOLLARS)
售价457万美元（约519.5万加元，约合人民币2800万元）
This three-story red brick mansion was built in 1904 in the Edwardian style in the Rosedale neighborhood of Toronto. Formerly owned by a charity, the six-bedroom six-bath house had all its original historic details when the current owners bought it and undertook a full restoration in 2000 and 2001. The project, done by Fairmont Properties, a Toronto builder that specializes in Rosedale’s historic houses, touched up the 5,000-square-foot home’s seven intricately designed fireplaces, ornate radiators, high baseboards, oak wainscoting, stained-glass windows, plaster molding and decorative cornices, according to Lorraine Morris, one of the owners.
这栋三层红砖豪宅建于1904年，位于多伦多市的罗斯戴尔社区，承袭了爱德华时期的建筑风格。这栋六卧、六卫的房产保留了现任业主购买时所存的全部历史细节，并于2000年至2001年期间经历了一次全面翻修。该项目由多伦多市一家专门从事罗斯戴尔古建筑翻修工程的建筑商——费尔蒙特房产公司(Fairmont Properties)承接，使得这栋面积5000平方英尺（约465平方米）的房屋焕然一新，其中包括七座设计精美的壁炉、几处雕花暖气片、高高的踢脚板、橡木护墙板、彩色玻璃窗、石膏线条和装饰性的飞檐，身为业主之一的罗琳·莫里斯(Lorraine Morris)说。
“When we moved to Toronto, we looked at a number of properties, and a lot of them were old on the outside, but the interior had been completely ripped out,” she said. “It took us a while to find this house, which hadn’t been touched in years.”
“我们刚搬到多伦多时看过许多房产，那些房子外表看起来都是旧的，但内部却完全被拆除了，”她说，“我花了好一阵子才找到这栋房子，经过这么多年，它还一直没被改动过。”
The only structural change made by the owners was to eliminate some walls around the cramped kitchen to create a more spacious, open-plan kitchen and family room in the back of the house. The custom-designed, contemporary-style kitchen has granite countertops and Sub-Zero and Thermador appliances, but the moldings, cornices and window trim complement those in the rest of the home, Ms. Morris said.
业主在结构上做的唯一改动，就是拆除了一间小厨房周围的几面墙壁，以便在屋后打造一间更宽敞的开放式厨房及家庭娱乐室。这间当代风格的厨房是按客户要求设计的，配备了花岗岩的台面，以及Sub-Zero和Thermador品牌的电器。不过家中其它地方的线条装饰、飞檐和窗饰板都是完整的，莫里斯说。
The main entrance off the front porch opens to a vestibule leading to a foyer with a black marble fireplace under a large stained-glass window. The home’s floors are hardwood. Three sets of restored pocket doors off the foyer lead to an office with a fireplace and a bay window; a formal living room with a fireplace and a bay window; and an oak-paneled dining room with a fireplace and stained glass windows. All fireplaces are gas-fueled, except the one in the foyer, which is not used, Ms. Morris said. Also off the foyer are the kitchen and family room, which have doors leading to the back porch and patio.
从前门廊尽头的正门进入，是一处玄关，穿过玄关进入一间门厅，其中的一扇大型彩色玻璃窗下有一座黑色壁炉。室内的地板都是实木的。门厅内的三组修复过的推拉门，分别通往一间带一座壁炉和一扇飘窗的办公室、一间带壁炉和飘窗的正式客厅，及一间镶有橡木护壁板、带一座壁炉与几扇彩色玻璃窗的餐厅。除门厅里的那座壁炉已不再使用，其它所有壁炉都以天然气为燃料，莫里斯说。厨房和家庭娱乐室也和这处门厅相通，并有通往后门廊和平台的门。
The main staircase of oak in the foyer ascends past a landing with tall windows of antique reeded glass. The second-floor master bedroom, which has a grand fireplace of molded plaster incorporating a large mirror, also has a sitting room with its own black-marble fireplace and bay window. The en-suite bathroom has a fireplace, along with two sinks, a bathtub and a separate glass shower. The other two second-floor bedrooms share a five-piece bathroom with stained-glass windows. A staircase in the back of the house ascends to the third floor, which has three more spacious bedrooms and two bathrooms. The rear staircase also leads down to the basement, which is finished, with a recreation room and a powder room.
门厅里的一段橡木主楼梯通往楼上，中间会经过一处有高大古式条纹玻璃窗的楼梯平台。二楼的主卧中有一座注塑石膏制的大壁炉，还镶嵌了一面大镜子。主卧内还有一间起居室，内有黑色大理石的壁炉和飘窗。这间主卧的配套浴室里也有一座壁炉，还有两个盥洗池、一座浴缸和一间单独的玻璃淋浴房。二楼的另两间卧室共享一间带彩色玻璃窗的五件套浴室。这栋房屋后部的一段楼梯可向上通往三楼，这里有三间更宽敞的卧室和两间浴室。这段屋后楼梯还可向下通往地下室，那里装修齐全，有一间休息室和一间化妆室。
The home sits on a double-size corner lot of just over half an acre, with towering old maple and fir trees, along with a garden. The backyard has pavers and an outdoor dining area. With a small detached garage, there is parking for three cars.
这栋房产坐落在一片面积刚过半英亩（约合2023平方米）的双倍大的转角地块上，上面生长着高耸的老枫树和冷杉，还有一座花园。后院里有步行小径和一个户外用餐区。一间独立的小车库里有三个停车位。
The house is in the southern portion of Rosedale, a leafy neighborhood with winding streets surrounded by a ravine and parkland in central Toronto. Besides its recreational amenities like the Toronto Lawn Tennis Club, the affluent neighborhood is distinctive for its 18th- and 19th-century Victorian, Georgian, Tudor and Edwardian mansions. Shopping, restaurants and pubs are all within a few minutes’ walk, and Toronto Pearson International Airport is about 30 to 45 minutes away by car, Ms. Morris said.
这栋房屋位于罗斯戴尔的南部，这里是一个绿树成荫、街道蜿蜒的社区，被多伦多中心地带的一片深谷与园林环抱。除了像多伦多草地网球俱乐部(Toronto Lawn Tennis Club)这类休闲娱乐设施，这个富庶的社区与众不同之处还包括18世纪至19世纪的那些维多利亚、乔治、都铎及爱德华式宅邸。购物、餐饮与酒吧都在几分钟的步行距离内，而多伦多皮尔森国际机场(Toronto Pearson International Airport)距此大约30至45分钟的车程，莫里斯说。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Apart from hitting a small speed bump in 2008-2009, Toronto’s housing market has seen steady and strong price growth since 1996, according to reports from the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, the national housing agency.
据全国住房机构“加拿大按揭贷款与住房保障局”(Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation)的几份报告指出，除2008年至2009年经历的那次小波动，多伦多市住房市场的房价增长势头自1996年以来，一直稳定而强劲。
Because of a lack of inventory in the Greater Toronto area, the average detached single-family home price, which grew significantly over the past decade, is predicted to increase in 2015 by 3.6 percent to 870,000 Canadian dollars, or about $766,000, according to the agency’s latest market report.
由于大多伦多地区(the Greater Toronto)的住房存量不足，前十年中增长显著的单户式独栋住宅的平均价格，预计将在2015年以3.6%的速度增长至87万加元，或76.6万美元（约合人民币469万元），据该机构最新发布的市场报告称。
The Toronto Real Estate Board reported in October that the average number of days on the market for houses this year was down to 25 from 27 in 2013, and brokers report that houses regularly sell for more than asking price.
多伦多房地产董事会(Toronto Real Estate Board)十月发布的报告称，待售房屋在市场挂牌的平均天数，已从2013年的27天降到了今年的25天。而据一些经纪人说，目前房屋的销售价格要普遍高于要价。
Demand for homes in downtown Toronto has never been higher, with neighborhoods like Rosedale, Forest Hill, Trinity-Bellwoods, West Queen West and Yorkville having grown exceedingly popular, said Paul Johnston, a real estate agent with Right at Home Realty in Toronto.
对多伦多市中心住宅的需求从未如此之高。如罗斯戴尔、森林山(Forest Hill)、崔尼蒂-贝尔伍兹(Trinity-Bellwoods)、西皇后西街(West Queen West)和约克维尔(Yorkville)这类社区已经变得十分抢手，多伦多一家房地产公司Right at Home Realty的房产经纪人保罗·约翰斯顿(Paul Johnston)说。
“I really do believe that Torontonians really walk the walk in a lot of that talk about walkability and pedestrian access to area amenities,” he said. “This is a pretty high priority for buyers.”
“我完全相信，多伦多人对于社区内的步行体验和通往当地各类便利设施的步行可达性是很在意的，他们真的说到做到，”他说，“这些都是买家要优先考虑的事。”
Mr. Johnston said that an attractive feature of many Toronto neighborhoods, but particularly Rosedale, is the diversity of housing there. In Rosedale, estates valued at 12 million Canadian dollars, or about $10.6 million, may be close to condominiums for a few hundred thousand, he said.
约翰斯顿说，多伦多的许多社区都具备一个吸引人的特征，那就是住宅的多样化，罗斯戴尔尤其如此。在这里，价值1200万加元或大约1060万美元（约合人民币6495万元）的房产，可能就很靠近那些只有几十万元的共管公寓，他说。
“While it is absolutely a higher-end neighborhood, one of the top two or three neighborhoods in Toronto, it’s a mixture of both astronomically expensive single-family homes, as well as much more modest, older apartment buildings, co-ops and some condominiums,” he said.
“虽然这里绝对是个高端社区，属于全多伦多最好的两、三处社区之一；但这里既有价格贵得堪比天文数字的单户式独栋住宅，也有更便宜、也更陈旧的公寓楼、合作公寓及一些共管公寓，”他说。
The entry point for single-family homes in Rosedale is roughly 1.5 million Canadian dollars, or about $1.32 million, but on the low end, there are also two-bedroom condos for 350,000 to 400,000 Canadian dollars, or about $308,000 to $352,000, Mr. Johnston said.
罗斯戴尔社区内的单户式独栋住宅，起步价大约为150万加元或大约132万美元（约合人民币809万元）；但在低端市场中，也有两居室的共管公寓，售价35万至40万加元，或大约30.8万至35.2万美元（约合人民币189万至216万元），约翰斯顿说。
Sounding a note of caution, the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, in its latest market report, predicted that demand for Toronto homes priced more than 800,000 Canadian dollars, or about $704,000, should start to decline in 2015 and 2016.
加拿大按揭贷款与住房保障局在其最近发布的市场报告中预测，价格超过80万加元，也即70.4万美元（约合人民币431万元）的多伦多住房需求，在2015年和2016年内应将开始下降。此信息听起来值得警醒。
WHO BUYS IN TORONTO
谁在多伦多买房
As one of the most multicultural cities in the world, Toronto sees foreign interest from all over, said Gillian Oxley, a real estate agent with the Johnston & Daniel Division of Royal LePage, which has this listing.
作为全世界文化最多元化的城市之一，世界各地的买家都对多伦多的房产市场很感兴趣，皇家地产(Royal LePage)约翰斯顿与丹尼尔分公司(Johnston & Daniel Division)的一名房产经纪人吉莉安·奥克斯利(Gillian Oxley)说。该公司就是文中这栋房产的代理方。
“We’re still seeing those core investors coming over from Asia and Europe and the Middle East, especially a lot of buyers from Iran,” she said.
“我们仍能看到来自亚洲、欧洲和中东的核心投资者，尤其是许多来自伊朗的买家。”她说。
Mr. Johnston said many newly built single-family homes are being bought by residents of mainland China.
约翰斯顿说，许多新建的单户式独栋住宅，都是被中国内地居民买下来的。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign home buyers in Toronto. Buyers typically use an agent to assist them in finding a home, and then hire a lawyer to handle the sales transaction, which typically costs 1,500 Canadian dollars plus expenses.
多伦多对外来购房者不设限制。买家通常都会请一位经纪人协助他们寻找房屋，然后再聘请一名律师处理购买环节的事务。相关费用一般为1500加元（约合人民币8181元），外加一些开销。
A land transfer tax collected by both the province and the city typically amounts to about 3.5 percent of the purchase price on a $1 million home, Mr. Johnston said.
约翰斯顿说，对于一栋售价在100万美元（约合人民币613万元）的住宅，省、市两级税务机关都要收取土地交易税，大约相当于售价的3.5%。
Mortgages for Canadian residents are available for as little as 5 percent down on properties under a million Canadian dollars or 20 percent down for more expensive properties, said Domenic D’Urzo, a home financing adviser for Scotiabank. While loan terms will be the same, United States buyers will typically be asked for a 35 percent down payment on a mortgage, and other international buyers for a 50 percent down payment, he said.
加拿大丰业银行(Scotiabank)的住宅金融顾问多米尼克·杜尔佐(Domenic D’Urzo)说，加拿大居民可以享受住房按揭贷款。对于100万加元（约合人民币545万元）以下的交易，仅需5%的首付款；对价格更贵的地产则需20%。对于申请按揭的美国买家，虽然借贷条款将是一样的，但他们一般要付35%的首付款。而来自其它地区的海外买家则需支付50%的首付款，他说。