For four years, Chrissy Hunt lived in a third-floor walk-up in Chelsea, first with her sister, then with a roommate and then with her boyfriend, Sean Oliver. 
四年里，克里西·亨特(Chrissy Hunt)一直住在切尔西(Chelsea)一栋无电梯大楼的三层。同住的人一开始是她的妹妹，接着是室友，然后就是她的男友肖恩·奥利弗(Sean Oliver)。
The two-bedroom apartment was spacious but had a few idiosyncrasies. The management company seemed lackadaisical about repairs. The nails in the floorboards erupted often. “I ripped every pair of socks I owned,” said Ms. Hunt, who, like Mr. Oliver, is in her mid-20s. 
这套两居室公寓虽然很宽敞，但是有一些缺点。物管公司似乎疏于修缮。地板上的钉子经常暴露出来。“我所有的袜子都被刮破了。”亨特说。她和奥利弗一样，都是25岁左右。
The couple were ready for a change. “I had watched friends move around and explore new neighborhoods and I wanted to do the same,” Ms. Hunt said. She and Mr. Oliver, who had previously lived in a Midtown East four-bedroom with roommates, wanted a place that felt less like hers and more like theirs. 
这对情侣已准备好搬家了。“我看到朋友们经常搬来搬去，体验新的社区，我也想这样。”亨特说。她和奥利弗之前在中城东(Midtown East)与人合租了一套四居室。这一次，他们想要一个新家，这个家给人的感觉应该更像是属于他们两人的，而不是她自己的住处。
Most of all, they wanted something new. “Not that I don’t like the charm of a prewar building,” Ms. Hunt said, “but I do like the luxury of new appliances, a dishwasher, a bigger bathroom and things you can’t find in prewar buildings.” 
最重要的是，他们想住在新建的楼盘里。“并不是说我不欣赏战前建筑的魅力，”亨特说，“但是我确实喜欢新设施的那种奢华感，比如一台洗碗机，更大的浴室，还有好多你在战前建筑里找不到的东西。”
Their Chelsea rent was a little under $2,900 a month; their new budget was up to $3,500. Last spring, they checked out several new high-rises in West Chelsea, where prices seemed more reasonable than in some other parts of Manhattan.
他们在切尔西租房时的月租稍低于2900美元（约合人民币17761元）；而这次的预算则是最高3500美元（约合人民币21435元）。去年春，他们在西切尔西(West Chelsea)关注了好几栋新建的高楼，那里的房价似乎比曼哈顿其它一些地区更合理。
The AVA High Line on West 28th Street was their favorite. Some studios there were spacious, with more than 600 square feet; rent was around $3,200 a month. The cheapest one-bedrooms, however, were smaller and had rents of more than $3,600. 
西28街的AVA高线大楼(AVA High Line)是他们中意的楼盘。楼内有些单间公寓很宽敞，面积超过600平方英尺（约合56平方米）；房租是每月3200美元（约合人民币19598元）左右。然而，最便宜的一居室公寓面积还要更小，租金却超过3600美元（约合人民币22048元）。
Each apartment was equipped with a dishwasher, a washer-dryer and an in-sink garbage disposal. But the couple didn’t like the “sliding barn door” bathroom door, which “didn’t seem it would close super-tight or be super-private,” Ms. Hunt said. 
每套公寓都配备了一台洗碗机、一台洗衣/烘干两用机和一台餐厨垃圾处理器。但是这对情侣并不喜欢浴室的推拉谷仓门，“看起来没法关得很严实，也没法保证完全隐私。”亨特说。
They were also deterred by the amenity fee of $100 a month. “We noticed where everything was an add-on,” Mr. Oliver said. “They were definitely upfront about it.” 
同样令他们望而却步的，还有每月100美元（约合人民币612元）的便利设施费。“我们注意到，每样设施都是要加钱的，”奥利弗说，“他们对此毫不含糊。”
And the West Chelsea location required a trek to any subway. Both work in Midtown, Ms. Hunt in equity sales and Mr. Oliver in sales for an online video start-up. 
而且，西切尔西这个地段也不好，去哪座地铁站都要走很远的路。这对情侣都在中城工作，亨特是证券销售员，奥利弗在一家在线视频创业公司做销售。
So the couple cast an eye toward Downtown Brooklyn, with its abundance of new residential high-rises. Friends had started to migrate there.
于是，他们俩把目光投向了布鲁克林下城(Brooklyn Downtown)，那里有许多新建的高层住宅楼。已经有朋友开始搬到那里去了。
One apartment, in a converted office building, had a massive bathroom. But they didn’t want a soaking tub and a stall shower at the expense of living space.
有一套公寓，位于一座由写字楼改建的住宅楼里，浴室超大。但是他们不想为了一个热水浴缸和一个淋浴间牺牲居住空间。
At the Addison on Schermerhorn Street, one-bedrooms were within their budget, with rents in the low $3,000s, but they were studio-size, only around 600 square feet. The amenity fee was $250 per person per year. The units they saw had no washer-dryers, which they knew they could find elsewhere.
在舍默尔霍恩街(Schermerhorn Street)的阿狄森大楼(The Addison)，一居室的租金在他们预算范围内，价位在3000到3500美元（约合人民币18373到21435元）。但是这些一居室只有单间公寓那么大，大约600平方英尺（约合55.8平方米）。设施费是每人每年250美元（约合人民币1531元）。他们看的那些单元里没有洗衣/烘干两用机，但他们知道在别处可以找到。
The building was only three years old, but the competition was even newer.
这栋大楼的楼龄只有三年，而竞争更是个崭新的挑战。
“For paying that type of money, we really decided we had to do something new,” Mr. Oliver said.
“既然要花那么多钱，我们真的想要尝试一些新事物。”奥利弗说。
Some new buildings, however, had insufficient closet and storage space, and few kitchen cabinets. Ms. Hunt counted the number of cabinets they had in Chelsea. “We needed to get rid of a lot of kitchen stuff or find a place with more cabinets,” she concluded.
然而，有些新建筑没有足够的衣橱和储物空间，厨房里的橱柜也很少。亨特数了一下他们切尔西的那套房子里有多少橱柜。“我们要么得丢掉很多厨房用品，要么得找一个橱柜更多的地方。”她最终得出结论。
Another Brooklyn option was 66 Rockwell, with one-bedroom apartments in the low $3,000s. The couple weren’t convinced there was enough storage space, and not every unit had a washer-dryer. Amenities were $60 a month per person or, if you paid all at once, $600 a year. They weren’t quite sold on the building. But they recommended it to Ms. Hunt’s sister, who needed a part-time place in the city. She ended up taking a studio there.  
布鲁克林还有一个可选的地方，在罗克韦尔广场(Rockwell)66号，其中的一居室公寓价位在3000到3500美元。这对情侣并不确定那里的储物空间足够多，而且并不是每个单元里都配了一台洗衣/烘干两用机。这处公寓的设施费为每人每月60美元（约合人民币367元），或者一次性支付的话，就是每年600美元（约合人民币3675元）。他们对那个楼盘不太满意，但是把它推荐给了亨特的妹妹，她需要在城里找个临时落脚的地方。最终，她在那里租了一套单间公寓。
Some friends mentioned 388 Bridge, also in Brooklyn, a glassy tower with rentals on the lower floors and condominiums above. Construction wasn’t quite finished. There, the couple found walk-in closets and washer-dryers, though no garbage disposals. 
有朋友提到了大桥街(Bridge)388号，也是在布鲁克林。那是一座玻璃幕墙大厦，低层有出租房源，高层为共管公寓。施工还没有完全结束。这对情侣发现，那里的单元中配备了步入式衣橱和洗衣/烘干两用机，只不过没有餐厨垃圾处理器。
“There were aspects of all the other places we had seen that we liked,” Ms. Hunt said. And no amenity fee. They were willing to overlook the black bathroom floor, which seemed odd.
“我们在其它地方看中的东西，这里都有。”亨特说。而且这里还不收设施费。他们甘愿无视浴室里看起来有些怪异的黑色地板。
The couple chose a one-bedroom with a breakfast bar, but it was rented by the time they were ready to sign the lease, so they took one with a kitchen open to the living room. They arrived last summer, paying $3,305 a month for a year’s lease, with a free 13th month.
他们选中了一套带早餐台的一居室，但就在准备签约的时候，房子已被租走了。于是他们租下另一套客厅连着开放式厨房的单元。去年夏天他们搬了进去，签了一年的租约，每月房租是3305美元（约合人民币20241元），第13个月免费。
Despite their 750 square feet, Mr. Oliver said, “we definitely had to downsize, just going from a two-bedroom where there was a guest room situation, and even when we got here we had too much stuff.” 
虽然房子有750平方英尺（约合70平方米），但是奥利弗说：“我们肯定得适应房子变小后的生活，毕竟我们刚从两居室搬出来，而且原来那套两居室里还有客房。我们才刚搬进来就发现行李太多了。”
They gave away a bed, a television set, a countertop microwave and unworn clothing. “The Goodwill across from our old apartment got an entire woman’s wardrobe,” Ms. Hunt said.
他们把一张床、一台电视机、一个台面微波炉和一些没有穿坏的衣服都捐掉了。“老房子对面那家好意慈善超市(The Goodwill)收下了一整衣橱的衣服。”亨特说。
The couple had thought they would prefer a new amenity-filled high-rise over a plain prewar walk-up, and they do. Being able to do laundry without having to leave the apartment is a treat, Mr. Oliver said. 
这对情侣此前就认为，他们更喜欢住设施齐全的高层住宅，而不是朴素的无电梯战前公寓。事实的确如此。奥利弗说，能够在足不出户的情况下洗好衣服，是一件很方便的事。
They added a butcher-block cart to the kitchen. Their bedroom walk-in closet is large enough to accommodate a small rug. Packages are sometimes delivered directly to the apartment. “We have become Amazon Prime’s best customers since moving in here,” Ms. Hunt said.
他们添置了一台厨房推车。卧室里的步入式衣橱够大，可以铺下一张小地毯。包裹有时候会直接投递到公寓。“搬进来以后，我们已经成了亚马逊(Amazon)Prime的最佳顾客。”亨特说。