For years, I was a green-tea snob who would drink only the freshest Dragon Well or Azure Conch Spring. Even worse, as a longtime Sinophile living in Beijing I aped Asian cultural practices, and when it came to tea, that meant fanatically seeking out the tender shoots harvested right after the first flush, usually in early April. Everything else was taboo. Black teas, especially, never crossed my tongue.
多年来，我一直只喝绿茶，而且口味挑剔，只喝最新鲜的龙井或碧螺春。更严重的是，作为一名住在北京的资深中国文化迷，我喜欢模仿多种亚洲文化仪式。这意味着喝茶的时候，我会疯狂地寻找第一场春雨之后最鲜嫩的芽尖，这种叶芽一般在四月初萌发。除此之外所有茶叶我都不喝。尤其是红茶，从来不曾触到我的舌尖。
Then I met Albrecht Ude, a German who had studied Sinology. His apartment in Berlin was an homage to tea, full of manuals on tea plantations, tea import ledgers and rare works on tea botany. I was excited to meet another tea aficionado in Berlin, my adopted hometown since studying there years ago, and went over to visit.
然后我遇到了阿尔伯特·乌德(Albrecht Ude)，一名研究过汉学的德国人。他在柏林的公寓表达了对茶的隆重敬意，里面到处都是关于茶园的资料、茶叶进口账册以及茶类植物学方面的珍稀资料。能在柏林见到另一个茶迷令我非常兴奋。柏林是我的第二故乡，多年前我曾在那里读书，后来又专程探访。
When I first went to see him, he was studying sado, the Japanese tea ceremony, but our drink that afternoon was something else: a thick, dark, malty tea served in espresso-size porcelain cups, a piece of rock sugar in the bottom and heavy cream carefully poured down the side from a flat, shell-like spoon. Stirring was taboo. The cream hit the bottom and mushroomed up, creating a “tea cloud,” as Mr. Ude put it.
初次见到乌德的时候，他正在研究日本茶道(sado)，但我们那天下午的饮品却来自其他地方：一种浓稠、暗黑并带有大麦味道的茶水，装在意式浓缩咖啡杯大小的瓷杯里，杯底有块冰糖，高脂奶油用一个贝壳形状的平底茶匙，沿着杯沿小心地倒入茶水。不许搅拌。奶油触到杯底之后会像蘑菇一样向上蓬勃绽开，形成乌德所说的“茶云”。
“East Frisian tea,” he said with pride. It was blended by a tea seller in the region where he grew up. “It is special.”
“东弗里西亚茶。”他骄傲地说道。这种茶叶由他故乡一带的一位茶商配制而成，“非常特别。”
I stared at the strange mixture and sipped. It was strong and biting, mostly dark Assam leaves leavened only by a bit of Darjeeling. But as the sugar and cream rushed up from the bottom of the cup, the brew softened. That afternoon, I indefinitely lifted my ban; some black teas were evidently worth drinking.
我盯着这种奇怪的混合物，呷了一口。味道很浓，有点辛辣，几乎就是浓厚版的阿萨姆红茶，仿佛大吉岭茶叶稍微发酵之后的味道。但当冰糖和奶油从杯底冲上来以后，茶水开始变得柔软。那天下午，我忍不住打破了自己的戒律：有些红茶显然还是值得一饮的。
At the end of my visit, Mr. Ude showed me the source of the tea. The leaves came in a half-kilo package — a simple white bag with a faded blue picture of peasants in the field. Below it was the brand, Hedemann, and an address in East Frisia, a region in northern Germany.
那天的造访快结束时，乌德先生展示了那种茶水的来源。茶叶装在一只半公斤装的袋子里——一个简单的白色袋子，上面农夫在田里劳作的蓝色图片已有些褪色。下面是它的商标赫德曼(Hedemann)，以及一个位于德国北部东弗里斯兰的地址。
“Go there and drink it,” he advised. “You can only truly drink it there.” I asked why but he shook his head; it was a question I’d have to answer myself. I followed his advice, and was soon on my way.
“到原产地去喝吧。”他建议说。“只有在那里才能真正品味它。”我问为什么，他摇了摇头。这个问题只有我自己才能找到答案。我接受了他的建议，很快就上路了。
East Frisia is best reached by car. It has no major airport and is so sparsely populated that it has infrequent train service. So I drove five hours northwest of Berlin, heading to Hedemann’s base in Ostgrossefehn, which could be translated as East Great Fens. That meant flat rural countryside — fens are undrained marshes — popular with tourists who bicycle.
造访东弗里西亚，最好的交通工具是汽车。那里没有大型机场，人口数量很低，火车班次非常少。因此我从柏林出发，向西北开车5个小时，到达了赫德曼茶在东格罗瑟芬的生产基地。东格罗瑟芬的意思是“东方的大沼泽”，这个地方在喜欢骑行的旅游者群体中非常热门。
The landscape isn’t spectacular but it is scenic. Just like the Netherlands, its neighbor to the west, East Frisia is flat, with dikes protecting green pastures that swoop down below sea level. Holstein cows, windmills and marshy, canal-crossed fields dominate the view. The region bulges out into the North Sea, its coastline dotted with islands for 60 miles. Huge tides empty the shoreline and drain down the creeks and canals, leaving the mud flats, called the Wadden Sea, to worms, crabs, birds and seals. The area’s biodiversity has made it one of Unesco’s World Heritage sites.
那里风景并不惊艳，但还算不错。像它西侧的邻居荷兰一样，东弗里西亚有许多堤坝来保护着许多低于海平面的绿色草地。荷斯坦奶牛、风车以及河道纵横、沼泽密布的田野在这里四处可见。这个区域有一块伸进了北海，60英里长的海岸线布满了小岛。大型潮汐扫荡了海岸线，将溪流和水道排空，留下的大片滩涂，即现在的沃登海，成了鱼虫虾蟹、鸟类和海豹的乐居之地。拜这里的生物多样性所赐，这个地方被联合国教科文组织列入了世界自然遗产名录。
That geography has defined East Frisia, isolating it from the rest of Germany for much of its history. Frisians looked to the Netherlands or England for cultural traditions rather than to their own countrymen. Starting in the 17th century, that culture included importing and drinking tea. Today, according to the German Tea Association, if East Frisia were a country its annual per capita consumption of 300 liters would be the highest in the world, ahead of Kuwait’s 290 liters, Ireland’s 257 and Turkey’s 225.
这种地理条件决定了东弗里西亚的个性，在历史上，它与德国其他地区几乎一直属于隔绝状态。弗里西亚的文化传统更与荷兰或英国更加接近。从17世纪开始，这种文化开始将进口茶叶和饮茶活动纳入了自己的视野。今天，根据德国茶饮协会(German Tea Association)的数据，如果东弗里西亚是个独立的国家，那么它的人均茶水消费数量每年300公升将位居世界第一，超过科威特的290公升、爱尔兰的257公升和土耳其的225公升。
When coffee took off in Germany and other parts of Europe in the 19th century, East Frisians kept to tea because it was economical; tea leaves can be used over and over again and they do not require grinders and filters. When guests came, East Frisians showed their hospitality by throwing more leaves in the pot and in time a heavy brew became the standard.
19世纪，当咖啡在德国和欧洲其他国家兴起时，东弗里西亚依然坚持喝茶，因为茶水更加便宜。茶叶可以一遍遍重复使用，而且不需要研磨器具和过滤设备。有客人造访的时候，东弗里西亚人以将更多茶叶放入茶壶的方式来表达自己的热情好客。于是，浓茶就成了待客的标准配置。
I first stopped at the East Frisian Tea Museum in the Renaissance-era city hall of Norden. The museum’s new head, Matthias Stenger, is overseeing an expansion that will turn the charming if hodgepodge collection of local porcelain designs supplemented by tea-serving demonstrations into a modern museum.
我先在诺顿的东弗里西亚茶博物馆(East Frisian Tea Museum)停留，博物馆设在该市文艺复兴风格的市政厅建筑里。博物馆的新任负责人马蒂亚·斯坦格(Stenger Stenger)正主持扩建工程，准备将本地茶壶和茶饮道具组成的大杂烩变成一个现代博物馆。
The rituals are a big part of East Frisian tea culture. The small cups, the rock sugar, the cream that is never stirred — all took shape in the 19th century, when Germany was industrializing and urbanizing. In response to the economic upheaval, local histories were written and traditions set down in an effort to keep them from disappearing. East Frisian tea became the key to locals’ sense of identity. Even the porcelain used in the area had distinct rose patterns; the museum has display cases filled with teapots, cups and saucers.
茶饮仪式是东弗里西亚茶文化的一个重要组成部分。小瓷杯、冰糖和不许搅拌的奶油，都在19世纪逐渐成型，当时德国正在经历工业化和城市化。作为对动荡经济的回应，当地人将茶水写进了历史并将茶饮变成传统的一部分，以免它们消失在历史的烟尘之中。东弗里西亚茶成了当地人身份认同的关键内容。当地的瓷器甚至都带有美妙的玫瑰图案，博物馆里有大量装满茶壶、茶杯和茶碟的展柜。
And the culture has remained very local. Four companies — Bünting, Onno Behrends, Thiele and Uwe Rolf — support the tea museum, but only Bünting markets its brand nationally; the rest can be bought only in the region. A few residents own tiny companies that produce the equivalent of craft brews. Willem Hedemann, the maker of Mr. Ude’s tea, is one of those small-batch producers who buys tea from wholesalers and mixes it in his home.
而且这种文化一直保持着当地特色。博物馆的赞助机构是四家公司——Bünting、Onno Behrends、Thiele和Uwe Rolf，但只有Bünting将自己的品牌向全国推广，其他三家都只在本地销售。还有几个居民开设了规模袖珍的公司，制造手工精酿啤酒般的手工茶品。维勒姆·赫德曼(Willem Hedemann)，即伍德先生款待我的那种茶叶的制造商，是当地少数几家从批发商购买茶叶然后在自家混合制造茶饮的商人。
The packet Mr. Ude had shown me had a number on the bottom, so I called and received an invitation from Mr. Hedemann himself for afternoon tea. On the way there I drove along the coast, trying various brands. One scenic stop was the port of Neuharlingersiel, where I sampled a stiff pot of Bünting tea at Cafe Rodenbäck. I picked up tea from the other producers, as well. Almost all of the blends are dominated by tea from Assam in northern India, known for its dark, rich tea. The exact leaves and mixtures are a trade secret but about 90 percent of the local blends are Assam, leavened with as little as 10 percent of the lighter, fruitier tea from Ceylon.
乌德先生给我展示的那个茶叶包装袋，底部印有一个电话号码，借此我致电赫德曼先生并得到了在他家喝下午茶的邀请。去赴约的时候我沿着海岸线驾车，顺便尝试了当地其他几种品牌。Neuharlingersiel海港是一个风景优美的地方，在那里的Cafe Rodenbäck小餐馆，我品尝了口味硬涩的Bünting茶。我也选了几种其他制造商的茶饮。几乎所有的混合茶都以阿萨姆红茶为主茶，这种茶以口味浓厚著称，产自印度北部的阿萨姆邦。确切的茶叶品种和混合比例是商业机密，但大约90%的当地混合茶都来自阿萨姆，再加上一些口味较轻、果香浓郁的锡兰茶叶。
It was all good but wasn’t quite what I had in mind. In midafternoon I arrived in Ostgrossefehn, wired but ready for more.
这些茶都不错，但不是我想要的那种。下午过半的时候，我到达了东格罗瑟芬，虽然疲惫不堪但对即将出现的东西充满期待。
Mr. Hedemann, a tall, fit 71-year-old, has been in the business since his father, a tea merchant, took him along on door-to-door visits when he was 14.
赫德曼先生是个71岁的老人，身材高大强健，从14岁起就进入了茶行业——那时候，他那茶叶商的父亲带着他挨家挨户做推销。
“I had an unbelievable tongue,” he said as we sat at his backyard picnic table with tea and cake. “People used to test me, blind tests, and I could tell what they were. I’d chew the tea and say what’s the best and what price groups they should be in.”
“我有一条不可思议的舌头。”我们在他后院的野餐桌前坐下、就着蛋糕开始喝茶的时候，他说，“人们以前经常考验我，各种盲品，每次我都能肯定地说出品尝的是什么。我会咀嚼一下茶叶，然后说出它的有点，以及属于什么价位。”
In Mr. Hedemann’s heyday, up through the 1990s, he’d sell five tons of tea a year. When the new teas arrived in September by ship at the big importers in Bremen or Hamburg, he would taste and then order big sacks. Then he mixed them at a custom-made wooden table in his attic and poured the mix into white paper bags.
在赫德曼先生的全盛期，即整个1990年代，他每年都会卖出5吨茶叶。每年9月，布莱梅或汉堡进口商的新茶到达以后，他会亲自品尝，然后大批大批地订货。然后他在自家阁楼上一个定制木桌前，将茶叶混合起来，并将它们装入白色纸袋。
“Then I was 66, and I ran out of bags to pack the tea,” he said. “They sold them only in packages of 10,000. And for that I’d need 5,000 kilos of tea. And then I said, ‘You know what, another 5,000 kilos! No, it’s over.’ ”
“我66岁的时候，用来包裹茶叶的纸袋全部用光了。”“纸袋供应商只做批发，每批1万个。那意味着我需要出售5000公斤茶叶。然后我说，‘什么？再卖5000公斤？不，不可能了。 ”
But then he was featured on a television show, and customers called. So he bought another 10,000 bags; 2,000 are left. “When they’re gone I really will retire,” he said.
但很快他出现在一些电视节目里，顾客们又开始给他打电话。于是他再次购买了10000个纸袋，现在还剩下2000个。“这些都用完以后，我就真的退休了。”
Mr. Ude wanted me to visit East Frisia because the water there is exceptionally soft and sweet. The effect on tea is amazing, addictive, the tones softer and more complex than the tea I had in Berlin.
乌德先生希望我探访东弗里西亚，因为这里的水格外柔滑而甘甜。它们对茶的口味产生了显著的影响，让人欲罢不能，色调比我在柏林喝过的其他茶饮更加柔滑，口感更加微妙。
Mr. Hedemann and I talked for a couple of hours, the winds whipping his tablecloth and bringing rain clouds. His tea really was distinctive, more biting than the local commercial brands and much more challenging than anything I’d bought in a store. It was the difference between a peaty single malt from Islay and a smooth blend. He showed me some prized older teas he had mixed in previous years.
赫德曼先生和我聊了两个小时，清风掀动桌布，扫来一些雨云。他的茶水的确与众不同，比当地其他商业品牌更加锐利，口感也比我在商店买的更具挑战性，两种的区别，仿佛艾拉岛略带泥煤味的大麦和爽口型混合茶饮之间的区别。他还给我展示了几种早年制作并那过奖的混合茶饮。
In the end, I began to associate the taste with a color. At its best, steeped in soft water and served in the small, thin porcelain cups, East Frisian tea is golden and almost transparent, the cream glistening slightly on the surface.
最后，我开始将东弗里西亚茶的味道与一种颜色联系起来。最佳状态的时候，即用软水冲泡并装在又小又薄的瓷杯里的时候，茶水呈金黄色，几乎透明，奶油在水面闪着微光。
“When it’s like that,” Mr. Hedemann said, leaving the tea on his tongue for a moment, “then it’s right. Then it’s real East Frisian.”
“茶水呈现这种颜色的时候，”赫德曼先生让茶水在自己舌头上停留着一会儿说，“就对了，就是真正的东弗里西亚茶。”
IF YOU GO
实用信息
The East Frisian Tea Museum (Ostfriesisches Teemuseum, Am Markt 36; Norden: 49-31-12-100, teemuseum.de). Though most of the exhibits are in German, the building — a rare Renaissance rathaus — is itself worth poking around. Also noteworthy is the gift shop, with products from the four major local brands and antique teapots in the distinctive East Frisian red rose design.
东弗里西亚茶博物馆(Ostfriesisches Teemuseum, Am Markt 36; Norden: 49-31-12-100, teemuseum.de)。尽管大多数展览都用德语，但博物馆所在建筑、一座罕见的文艺复兴风格的市政厅本身就非常值得一逛。同样值得注意的是礼品店，里面有当地四种主要品牌的茶产品，还有画有明显东弗里西亚红玫瑰图案的古董茶具。
Cafe Rodenbäck (Am Hafen Ost 2, Neuharlingersiel). The cafe is in one of small fishing ports along the L5, a coastal route. Also worth a visit is Carolinensiel, which has a tiny harbor filled with old boats and ships. Cafes are not in short supply along this road and one rarely can go wrong sampling any of the pies and cakes offered. Almost every cafe has East Frisian tea, rock sugar and heavy cream.
Cafe Rodenbäck小餐馆(Am Hafen Ost 2, Neuharlingersiel)。位于滨海公路L5沿线的一座小渔港。另外值得一看的是Carolinensiel，那里有个小港口，泊满了古旧的木舟和轮船。沿途餐馆很多，任何一家的馅饼或蛋糕味道都不差。几乎每家饭店都有东弗里西亚茶、冰茶和多脂奶油。
Tee-Bakker (Bismarckplatz, Wilhelmshaven; teebakker.com). Though not in East Frisia, this is one of the best tea stores in the region; it has an online shop as well.
Tee-Bakker店(Bismarckplatz, Wilhelmshaven; teebakker.com)。尽管不在东弗里西亚，但却是这个地区最好的茶饮商店之一；他家也有个网店。
Cafe Landlust (Bäderstrasse 134, Schweiburg/Jade, cafe-landlust.de). This cafe has a wonderful selection of teas and cakes. Nearby, one can get a good view of the Jade Bight, a huge estuary off the North Sea.
Cafe Landlust餐馆(Bäderstrasse 134, Schweiburg/Jade, cafe-landlust.de)。这家餐馆有多种精彩的茶饮和糕点。它的附近，可以看到北海附近大河口翡翠湾(Jade Bight)的美好风光。
Hedemann (Kanalstrasse Süd 232, Ostgrossefehn, 49-4944-3625, but a German speaker is needed). Even though Mr. Hedemann’s address is on his packaging material, his tea business is in his home, so go there only with an appointment.
Hedemann茶品公司（Kanalstrasse Süd 232, Ostgrossefehn, 49-4944-3625，需要与讲德语的人同去）。尽管赫德曼先生将地址印在了产品的包装上，但他的茶叶生意设在自己住宅里，业务拜访之前请务必预约。