It can be hard to find a functioning seatbelt in an Istanbul taxicab, and when I do, I think twice about putting it on. Why? Because it always seems to outrage the driver — and sometimes leaves me having to defend my very identity as a Turk.
在伊斯坦布尔的出租车上，要找到一条没坏掉的安全带比较困难。当我找到时，在系上它之前也会考虑再三。为什么呢？因为此举似乎会激怒司机——有时导致我不得不捍卫自己的土耳其人身份。
Awkwardness with a cabby was the least of my concerns when a taxi I was in recently started lurching forward at 100 kilometers per hour (62 m.p.h.), more than triple the road’s speed limit.
近日，我乘坐的一辆出租车超过道路限速两倍有余，开始以上百公里的时速狂奔。到了这时候，与司机之间是否气氛尴尬几乎不在我担心的事情之列。
When the driver heard the click of the buckle, he started uttering, “Op, op, op,” a sound Turks use to get someone’s attention. I met his offended gaze in the rearview mirror.
当司机听到安全带扣上的声音，他开始发出“噢噗、噢噗、噢噗”的声音——土耳其人用这个语气词来引起别人的注意。从后视镜里，我对上了他那不爽的目光。
“Why did you do that?” he demanded. “I can drive!”
“你为什么那么做？”他追问。“我会开车！”
Other times, drivers have brushed aside my grasp for safety. “The belt is just an accessory — it doesn’t do anything,” one insisted. Another fairly spat, “This is a car, not a helicopter!”
有些时候，司机会对我的安全之举不以为然。“安全带只是一个装饰——没有任何作用，”一名司机坚称。另一个说话很直接，“这是车，不是直升机！”
Turkish cabdrivers have this attitude despite being notorious for speeding, running red lights and recklessly jockeying from lane to lane on the highway without signaling. The younger ones will often watch YouTube videos or play games on their phones while stopped in Istanbul traffic. (TomTom’s annual Traffic Index ranks the city among the world’s most congested.)
土耳其出租车司机爱超速、爱闯红灯、爱在公路上不打信号就变道是出了名的。尽管如此，他们对安全带的态度还是这样。在伊斯坦布尔堵车时，年轻司机经常会在手机上看YouTube视频或打游戏（TomTom导航公司的年度交通指数显示，伊斯坦布尔是世界上最拥堵的城市之一）。
A friend was in a taxi recently when the cabby pulled out a thermos and tried to mix a cup of Nescafé as he was driving. Result: fender bender.
一个朋友最近坐出租车时，司机一边开车，一边掏出保温瓶，想冲一杯雀巢咖啡。结果出了小车祸。
Passengers who reach for seatbelts are taken for tourists. For a completely nonscientific study of this phenomenon, I rode in 17 taxis in a single day, and when I buckled up, nine of the drivers asked me where I was from — including one who busted up laughing as I tried to force a broken clasp.
系安全带的乘客会被看成是游客。我对这个现象做了一个完全不科学的研究，一天之内乘坐了17辆出租车。当我系安全带的时候，有九个司机问我是哪里来的——在我努力扣上一个坏掉的安全带卡扣时，其中一个司机还爆发出了笑声。
“What’s funny?” I asked in my native Turkish.
“有什么好笑的？”我用母语土耳其语问道。
“Where are you from?” he said.
“你是哪里来的？”他反问。
“I’m from the Black Sea region,” I replied. “Why did you laugh?”
“黑海地区，”我回答。“你笑啥？”
“Only foreigners do that,” he scoffed. “If you’re really Turkish, then let go, and trust your people.”
“只有外国人才那么做，”他嗤之以鼻。“如果你真是土耳其人，就不要系，相信自己的同胞。”