In 2009, one of the deadliest earthquakes in recent Italian history hit the central Italian town of L’Aquila. A few days later, Eugenio Coccia, then director of the nearby Gran Sasso National Laboratory, the world’s largest underground laboratory for particle physics research, sat at his desk in a building that had escaped the devastation, and pondered.
2009年，意大利近代史上伤亡最惨重的一次地震袭击了该国中部城市拉奎拉。几天之后，在一座幸免于难的大楼内，时任拉奎拉附近全球最大的地下粒子物理研究实验室——格兰萨索国家实验室(Gran Sasso National Laboratory)——主任的欧基里亚·柯西亚(Eugenio Coccia)坐在办公桌前，陷入了沉思。
Who would ever want to work or study in L’Aquila again?
谁还会来拉奎拉工作和学习？
Dozens of buildings had collapsed and 309 people — including 55 university students— had died in the quake. Mr. Coccia feared that the cultural damage to the city would be even more lasting than the architectural loss, he said in an interview.
地震导致了几十栋建筑倒塌，309人丧生，其中包括55名大学生。柯西亚先生在采访中表示，他担心，文化损失给城市带来的影响可能要比建筑损失更为久远。
That same day, he and a few colleagues started thinking about the strategy that, in the 1970s, had created one of Italy’s top schools of higher learning, the International School for Advanced Studies, in Trieste.
就在同一天，一个策略浮现在了他和小部分同事的脑海中。这个策略曾在上个世纪70年代末打造了国际高等研究学院(International School for Advanced Studies)。该校是意大利顶级高校之一，位于的里雅斯特。
The northeastern region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia had used funds allocated for its reconstruction after a devastating earthquake in 1974 to build a prestigious science institute that had helped to transform Trieste into a European research hub.
在1974年遭遇了一场毁灭性的地震之后，弗留利—威尼斯朱利亚东北部地区使用政府划拨的重建款项修建了一所知名的科研机构，将的里雅斯特变成了欧洲研究中心。
That was what L’Aquila needed, Mr. Coccia and his colleagues decided: a research institute that would attract students from all over the world — and in the process revitalize the city.
拉奎拉也需要这样的学校，柯西亚和他的同事决定：修建一座研究所，吸引全世界的学生前来学习，并借此恢复城市的生机。
In November, four and a half years after the earthquake, L’Aquila inaugurated its international center for doctoral and advanced studies, the Gran Sasso Science Institute, or G.S.S.I.
2013年11月，也就是地震过后四年半，拉奎拉启动了国际博士点和高级研究中心——格兰萨索科学研究所(Gran Sasso Science Institute)，简称GSSI。
“Without the earthquake, this project would simply not have been possible,” Mr. Coccia, now the institute’s director, said in an interview in the school’s headquarters, a recently renovated 1930s palazzo just inside the city walls. “We thought it was the best way to respond to such a natural catastrophe.”
现任该研究所主任的柯西亚在研究所总部接受采访时说，“没有地震的话，这个项目基本上是不大可能成形的。我们认为此举是对这次毁灭性自然灾害最好的回应。”研究所总部所在大楼建于上个世纪30年代，最近刚刚翻修，就在城墙里面。
Selected by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the association of free-market democracies, among several projects designed to relaunch the city, the school has been funded partly by the Italian government and partly by the European Union.
自由市场经济体联盟经合组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)从多个城市复兴项目中挑选了这个研究所修建计划，该研究所的资金一部分来自于意大利政府，一部分来自于欧盟。
One of five schools for advanced studies in Italy, it will operate under the supervision of the Italian National Institute of Nuclear Physics, with a guaranteed budget for three years. After that, in 2016, it will be formally evaluated by Italy’s university and research review agency to determine its future status and funding.
作为意大利五大高级研究所之一，该研究所将在意大利国家核物理研究所(Italian National Institute of Nuclear Physics)的督导下运营，学校最初三年的预算将由相关方面划拨。三年过后，也就是2016年，意大利的大学和研究评估机构将对其进行正式评估，以决定其未来的地位和资金来源模式。
The two-month-old school offers interdisciplinary courses in physics, math, computer science and urban sciences. For its first-year intake of 36 Ph.D. students — 14 of them foreign — L’Aquila has two major advantages: its direct link to the Gran Sasso laboratory, famous for its neutrino and dark matter experiments in caverns deep beneath the Apennine mountains, where students will be able to work; and its location in a city that is itself an experiment as it struggles to recover from the earthquake.
刚成立两个月的研究所提供跨学科课程，包括物理、数学、计算机科学和城市科学。对于第一年招收的36名博士生（其中14名来自于国外）来说，拉奎拉拥有两大主要优势：它与格兰萨索实验室有直接联系，学生可以在那里工作，该实验室位于阿尔卑斯山脉地下极深的洞窟中，因其中微子和暗物质试验而闻名；此外，学校所在的城市本身就是一个实验标本，它正挣扎着走出地震的阴影。
“This is an enormous open-air laboratory,” said Pietro Verga, 29, a former visiting scholar at City University of New York’s Center for Community Planning and Development, and now a doctoral student in urban studies at the Gran Sasso institute. “I wanted to come in the hope that we can help assess the redevelopment process with our technical skills. The city really needs it.”
29岁的彼得罗·韦尔加(Pietro Verga)曾在纽约城市大学社区规划和发展中心(City University of New York’s Center for Community Planning and Development)做过访问学者，现在是格兰萨索研究所城市研究专业的博士生。他表示，“拉奎拉是一个巨大的露天实验室。我来这的目的就是想利用我们的专长来帮助评估拉奎拉的重新开发过程。这座城市真的很需要这类帮助。”
“The scientific curriculum and the conditions were very attractive,” said Axel Boeltzig, a 25-year-old physics student from Germany. “But the lab so close by really was the big plus, if you plan to do experiments in Europe’s largest underground facilities, like me.”
来自于德国25岁的物理专业学生阿格瑟尔·博伊尔泽格(Axel Boeltzig)表示，“科学的课程体系和条件非常有吸引力。然而，如果你和我一样，打算在欧洲最大的地下设施中做实验，那么近在咫尺的格兰萨索实验室才是学校真正的优势所在。”
“Here, you don’t just get to work in the lab for a few weeks; as of the second year, we can go more independently,” he added. “Many of our lectures are given by researchers who work there. You can talk to them, you have very close contacts to them and you can figure out together what issues you might want to work on yourself. For someone like me who likes the hands-on work, it was a great opportunity.”
他还说：“在这里，你不仅能得到在国家实验室工作几周的机会；到了第二年，我们还可以有更多的机会独自一人在实验室操作。我们的很多课程都是由那里的研究人员讲授。你可以和他们交谈，保持紧密联系，还可以和他们讨论你自己可能会去研究的课题。对于像我这样喜欢自己动手的人来说，这是一个非常好的机会。”
The school stands in what is now, for L’Aquila, a typical patchwork of destruction and rebuilding. On one side, cranes and construction workers are busy removing debris from a demolition site; on another, a building covered in scaffolding is almost ready for reoccupation. Nearby, one of the worst-hit streets is lined with houses shored up by wooden and steel props, while trees grow from the foundations of what were multistory buildings.
对于拉奎拉来说，研究所目前成为了一个典型的毁坏与重建的集合体。一方面，吊车和建筑工人正忙碌于搬走拆迁现场的瓦砾；另一方面，一座覆盖着脚手架的建筑即将交付使用。在附近的一条街道上，一排排房子靠木头和铁柱支撑着；在地基上面，树木依然伫立着，然而昔日的多层建筑却不见了踪影。这条街道是地震中受灾最严重的街道之一。
“It’s such a beautiful and scary city,” said Wojciech Keblowski, 27, an urban studies doctoral candidate from Poland. The night he arrived, he said, he feared he would wake the sleeping population as he dragged his wheeled case through the cobbled streets. Then he realized that the city center was almost uninhabited, “like an empty shell.”
来自于波兰的城市研究专业博士生、27岁的沃杰斯克·柯布罗斯基(Wojciech Keblowski)表示，“这座城市非常美丽，也异常恐怖。”在他到达拉奎拉的当晚，他说，他担心拖着带轮的箱子，走在满是砾石的街道上会吵醒熟睡的人们。然后他意识到，市中心基本上没人住，“就像一个空壳”。
“It didn’t feel like an urban city,” he said. “The medieval center is full of destroyed buildings. You see guys in military jeeps, like in the Gaza Strip or in a war zone.”
他说：“感觉不像是到了一个城市。古老的城市中心满是损毁的建筑。有人开着军用吉普车，就像是来到了加沙地带或战争区。”
A smattering of bars, restaurants, pastry shops and some offices have reopened in the center, but there are no public facilities and the nearest shopping mall is several miles down the valley.
在市中心，有少数几家酒吧、餐馆、面包店和一些办公楼重新开业了，但是市中心没有公共设施，而且最近的商店在山谷那一边，离这里有数英里远。
For postgraduate students exploring the challenges of urban regeneration, three years at the institute promise a unique opportunity that no other major university can match.
对于研究城市重建难题的研究生来说，在这所学校学习三年便是一个无与伦比的机遇，这是其他主要大学所不具有的优势。
“My home university is famous for landslides research, and I think our integrated skills can highly contribute to the redevelopment here,” said Venkatapathy Subramanian, a 27-year-old Ph.D. candidate in computer sciences from Amrita University in India.
印度甘露大学(Amrita University)27岁的计算机科学博士生文卡塔帕西·萨布拉马尼安(Venkatapathy Subramanian)说：“我的母校因滑坡研究而闻名，因此我觉得，在结合各自的专长之后，我们可以为当地的重新开发做很多事情。”
The institute’s newly arrived international students and teachers are actively engaging with their environment, dining in local bars and restaurants and starting to make friends with neighbors. Mr. Subramanian, for one, has made a point of learning a word of Italian every day, ahead of a language class starting this month.
学校新到的留学生和老师们正积极地融入周边的环境，他们在当地酒吧和餐馆吃饭，开始结识周围的邻居。萨布拉马尼安就是其中一位，他已决定，在即将于本月开课的语言课之前，每天学习一个意大利单词。
“My new neighbors were very perplexed when I told them I had moved here,” said Goran Senjanovic, a theoretical physics professor at G.S.S.I., who previously worked and taught in Brookhaven National Laboratory in the United States, the University of Zagreb in Croatia and the Abdus Salam International Center for Theoretical Physics in Trieste. “They first thought it was crazy, but also noble, and then invited me for dinner.”
GSSI理论物理学教授戈兰·塞加诺维克(Goran Senjanovic)说：“我告诉我的新邻居，我是从别的地方搬过来的，他们听到之后感到非常疑惑不解。他们的第一反应就是，这是一个疯狂的举动，但是也很高尚，随后，他们邀请我共进晚餐。” 戈兰之前曾在美国布鲁克黑文国家实验室(Brookhaven National Laboratory)、克罗地亚萨格勒布大学(University of Zagreb)和的里雅斯特阿布杜斯萨拉姆国际理论物理研究中心(Abdus Salam International Center for Theoretical Physics)工作并执教。
Professor Senjanovic called the G.S.S.I. experiment “a serious challenge,” requiring the simultaneous creation of an institute, a structure and a doctoral studies program from scratch. But he said he had little doubt that it would succeed.
塞加诺维克教授将GSSI实验称之为“严峻的挑战”，因为它要求校舍建设、学校构架建设以及博士研究项目的创立同时进行，而且一切都是从零开始。但是他说，他对这一实验的成功充满了信心。
Italy has an excellent reputation for physics, he said, and students are likely to be attracted by the proximity of the Gran Sasso laboratory.
他说，意大利在物理学方面有着极好的声誉，而且学生可能也会因为附近的格兰萨索实验室而前来学习。
Moreover, he said, the new institute will benefit from a “competitive collaboration” with the lab and with the existing University of L’Aquila, which is institutionally and administratively separate from the new school.
他说，此外，新学校与国家实验室以及与目前的拉奎拉大学(University of L’Aquila)之间的“竞争性合作”也将使该校受益。无论在制度上还是行政上，拉奎拉大学与新学校之间都没有什么关联。
“We will actually enhance each other’s potential,” Professor Senjanovic said, “like the M.I.T. and Harvard.”
塞加诺维克教授说：“两个学校之间实际上是相互促进的关系，就像麻省理工大学(MIT)和哈佛大学(Harvard)一样。”
Paola Inverardi, dean of the University of L’Aquila, is also optimistic. “To me, it’s a great sign that, in such a devastated context, we are investing in higher education,” he said. “It all makes L’Aquila a stronger, more complete and attractive city.”
拉奎拉大学主任帕欧拉·印弗拉狄(Paola Inverardi)对此也很乐观。他说：“在我看来，这是一个非常好的现象，因为在受灾如此严重的情况下，我们仍在大力投资高等教育。这一切将让拉奎拉成为一个更强大、更完美而且更具吸引力的城市。”
Yet some others are more skeptical, including Aldo Benedetti, an associate professor and administrator in the university’s architecture and engineering department.
然而也有一些人对此表示质疑，其中就包括拉奎拉大学建筑工程学院行政主管、副教授阿尔多·本尼德蒂(Aldo Benedetti)。
“I truly believe in the stimulus that a university can offer to a city,” Mr. Benedetti said, as he walked recently around the ruins of the medieval city center. “But you can’t plant a seed on a rock.”
本尼德蒂最近在古城中心的废墟附近散步时说：“我确实相信大学对城市的发展有刺激作用。但是把种子撒在石头上是不会发芽的。”
Mr. Benedetti said the institute would have to overcome a deeply entrenched conservatism.
本尼德蒂说，新学校必须克服根深蒂固的保守主义。
“I’ve seen it for years here: People only want their homes exactly as they were, where they were, even if they were built on fragile land,” he said. “Nothing else.”
他说：“多年来，我对当地的保守主义深有体会：人们需要的是跟以前一模一样的房子，而且地点不能变，哪怕房子修在脆弱的地基上他们也不在乎。就是这样。”
“Many don’t worry about the social and cultural aspect of a city,” he added, pointing to his university’s struggle to recover from the earthquake’s shock.
想到拉奎拉大学正挣扎着走出地震的阴影，他有感而发：“很多人并不怎么关注城市的社会和文化领域。”
Until last July, some students had to travel to classes in towns as far as 35 miles away, because the university’s buildings had been severely damaged.
去年7月之前，一些学生不得不远赴35英里之外的城镇上课，因为大学的大楼遭到了严重破坏。
Soon after the quake, the university waived tuition fees for all its students, at first for three years and then for another three.
地震发生后不久，拉奎拉大学免除了所有学生的学费，一开始免三年，随后又追加了三年。
Yet student numbers slumped, and in many departments have not recovered. The university’s once highly popular architecture course had more than 150 students enrolled in 2009. This academic year it has 65, with enrollment closing at the end of this month.
然而，在很多还未恢复的学院，学生人数直线下降。该校之前非常受欢迎的建筑课程在2009年有150多名学生报名注册，本学年仅有65名学生，而本月底便是报名注册的截止日期。
“It’s terrifying what happened at all levels,” said Joanne Ahern, 27, from Ireland, a Ph.D. candidate in urban studies at the Gran Sasso institute.
来自于爱尔兰的格兰萨索研究所城市研究专业博士生、27岁的乔安娜·阿赫(Joanne Ahern)说：“各个层面所发生的一切都非常可怕。”
Still, she said, “you also see the sense of a community that has persisted, its resilience. This is how and why we are here.”
然而，她说道，“你还可以感觉到所存留的社群感，以及它的活力。这也是我们待在这里的动力和原因。”