DALTENGANJ, India — When he decided to run for a parliamentary seat from this impoverished, and mainly low-caste constituency in northeast India, Kameshwar Baitha made no effort to sugarcoat his criminal record.
印度达尔滕刚——达尔滕刚位于印度东北部，是一个贫穷的低种姓选区。当卡米什瓦尔·拜萨尔(Kameshwar Baitha)决定要竞选当地的议会席位时，他根本不准备粉饰自己的犯罪记录。
Obediently, he cataloged the serious charges pending against him, all of which he says are false. There were 17 for murder, 22 for attempted murder, 6 for assault with a dangerous weapon, 5 for theft, 2 for extortion, and so on, a legacy from Mr. Baitha’s previous career as a leader of the local Maoist insurgency. On top of that was the fact that he was in jail.
他按照要求，一项一项列明了对他的各项重罪指控，虽然他表示这都是捏造的。因为之前他担任过当地毛派游击队的领袖，他被控以17项谋杀，22项谋杀未遂，6项以危险武器伤害，5项盗窃，2项敲诈，等等。最重要的是情况是，决定参选时，他本人还在监狱服刑。
But this did not hurt him with voters here, noted his son, Babban Kumar, who hopes to follow his father into politics. With people in this area, who look to elected leaders as Robin Hood figures, it may have helped.
他的儿子巴本·库马尔(Babban Kumar)希望自己能够追随父亲的足迹进入政界，他说，这并没有影响选民投票给他。考虑到这个选区的人们总是希望选出罗宾汉(Robin Hood)似的人物担任领袖，犯罪记录看似倒可能是有帮助的经历。
“You have to fight against something, how else can you get into politics?” Mr. Kumar said. “Without going to jail, you cannot be a big politician.”
库马尔说，“你必须要去对抗些什么，不然你还有什么别的办法进入政坛呢？如果你没进过监狱，那就成不了大政治家。”
New impulses are rippling through Indian politics this year, as a growing, urbanized middle class demands that hundreds of tainted politicians be driven from the system.
今年，新的能量震动了印度政坛，不断扩大的城市中产阶级要求，将数以百计的有过不光彩历史的政治人物逐出体制。
In Delhi, crowds driven by Internet campaigns have rallied around an anticorruption platform, holding brooms to symbolize the coming cleansing. The Supreme Court, sensing the public mood, ruled in July that it was illegal for politicians who had been convicted of crimes to continue holding office by simply filing an appeal against their convictions. The ruling would disqualify politicians sentenced to more than two years in prison by a lower court. This change, which could uproot formidable political forces, was endorsed this month by the governing coalition’s crown prince, Rahul Gandhi.
在德里，受到网上请愿的推动，很多民众参加到一场反贪腐集会中，手举扫帚，象征着即将发生的政治去污行动。印度最高法院顺应民意，于今年7月裁定，有过犯罪记录的政治人物，不能仅凭对之前定谳的犯罪记录提出上诉，就继续担任政府职务；否则即违反法律。根据这项裁定，被最高法院以下各级法院判决两年刑期以上刑罚的政治人物，不再有担任公职的资格。这项变动可能会从根基上动摇一些强大的政治势力。而就在本月，执政联盟的领袖接班人拉合尔·甘地(Rahul Gandhi)对此表示了支持。
The effort will meet its greatest challenge in another India — the old one, where voting is still largely driven by caste. In the tribal region that Mr. Baitha represents, the vast majority of elected officials face criminal charges, most related to corruption, but many for violent crimes. Voters typically dismiss such charges as trumped-up, one more attempt by elites to crush the champions of the poor.
但是这些努力将会遇到来自另一个印度，即老旧印度的最强烈挑战，而那个印度背后有着大量来自低种姓选民的支持。在拜萨尔代表的部族选区，绝大多数的民选官员都存在犯罪记录，多数跟贪腐相关，但也有不少涉及暴力犯罪。选民一般不接受这些指控，认为都是捏造的，是精英阶层在试图打压穷人的代言人。
These are some of the things that allowed Mr. Baitha to discuss the subject comfortably in the red-velvet seating area of a government guesthouse, as a ceiling fan turned slowly overhead. He urged his guest to imagine if everyone convicted of a crime were barred from politics.
正是因为有着这样的支持，拜萨尔才能够在政府宾馆讨论这个话题。他舒服地坐在铺满红色天鹅绒的休息区，吊扇在他头顶缓慢旋转着。他请求客人们设想，如果每个有着犯罪记录的人都无法从政，结果会是怎样。
“The whole Parliament will be empty,” he said. “It will become a joke.”
他说，“整个议会就空了。这将会变成一个笑话。”
A big test of the new measures’ effect will come in the case of Lalu Prasad, the longtime leader of the neighboring state of Bihar, who was disqualified from holding office and running in coming elections this month after being sentenced on corruption charges. The case against him had proceeded at a snail’s pace for 17 years, as Mr. Prasad had thumbed his nose at prosecutors.
这项新政将要迎来一次艰巨挑战。拉鲁·帕拉萨德(Lalu Prasad)常年担任达尔滕刚邻邦比哈尔邦(neighboring state of Bihar)的领导人，他因为腐败罪名被判刑，此后在本月被剥夺资格，不得参加今后的选举。对于他的调查审判前后长达17年，进程像蜗牛一样缓慢，而帕拉萨德则对检察官嗤之以鼻。
A master of populist showmanship who came from a caste of cow herders, he transformed his court dates into political theater. He arrived for one session in the back of a bicycle rickshaw, surrounded by throngs of adoring supporters, and once left jail on the back of a small elephant.
帕拉萨德是一个出身于低种姓的牧牛人，现在的他则是一位民粹主义作秀大师，他把开庭的日子都变成了政治表演时间。一次开庭时，他坐在黄包车后座前来，四周围满了仰慕的支持者，还有一次他骑着一头小象离开监狱。
The dance seemed to end with his sentencing. But last week, sitting inside the Birsa Munda jail in Ranchi, it seemed he was perfectly capable of managing his still-formidable political empire. Scores of aides and supporters were clustered outside the jail’s iron gate, bearing coconuts and handwritten letters. Prison guards let visitors in and out at regular intervals, as if they were operating a reception center. The Telegraph, Ranchi’s main English-language daily newspaper, reported that he had summoned a tailor to his cell.
但随着关于他的判决被公布，舞步似乎要终止了。但是上个礼拜，虽然人还端坐在兰契的波尔撒·孟达监狱(Birsa Munda )里，他似乎能够完全掌控自己那个依然强大的政治王国。大量助手和支持者在监狱的铁门外聚集，拿着椰子和信件。狱卒让探访者按时进出，好像他们不是狱卒，而是在运营一家接待中心。兰契主要的英文日报《电讯报》(The Telegraph)报道说，他甚至招来一名裁缝进入他的囚室。
When a local anticorruption activist filed a complaint, charging that the visits were a major violation of prison regulations, Mr. Prasad decided to keep a “low profile” by receiving visitors only after 3 p.m., the newspaper reported. His visitors all said the charges were false. “People in Delhi don’t want the poor people to rise,” said one of them, Kumar Lakshman, 28. “Lalu is causing the poor people to rise.”
后来，一位当地的反贪腐活动人士提出了抗议，指责说这些探视严重违反了监狱规定。根据报纸报道，帕拉萨德因此决定“低调行事”，只在下午三点钟之后接待客人。他的访客都说，这些指控是捏造的。其中一位访客库马尔·拉克什曼(Kumar Lakshman)说，“德里那些人不愿让穷人翻身，而帕拉萨德正在帮助穷人翻身。”
Nationwide, the number of Indian officeholders facing criminal charges is extraordinary: 30 percent of winners in national and regional elections since 2008, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms, a research group based in New Delhi. The reasons are manifold; as India’s democratic system evolved, candidates depended heavily on thuggish “muscle men,” and later “money men,” to influence voters and sweep them into office. Corruption is widespread.
从全国范围来看，面对犯罪指控的印度官员的数目高的惊人。民主改革协会(Association for Democratic Reforms)是一家设于新德里的研究机构。根据他们的数据，2008年以降，在全国和地方性选举中，30%的胜选者都面对犯罪指控。其背后的原因很多。随着印度民主制度的发展，候选人倚重于外力来影响选民，帮助自己当选。他们一开始依靠的是肌肉发达的恶棍，之后是“金主”。腐败因此非常流行。
But it is also true that spending limits are so low that virtually any candidate bent on winning would have to be willing to break the law. The penalty for filing false charges is negligible. And India’s independence movement was founded on civil disobedience, so lawbreaking is enmeshed in the political culture.
同时，竞选经费上限很低，所以，基本上任何一个真心想要当选的候选人都不得不违反法律。同时，报假案的惩罚微不足道。还有，印度独立运动是建立在公民不服从(civil disobedience)的基础之上，所以违反法律根植于这里的政治文化当中。
It is not yet clear whether this will change now, said Neerja Chowdhury, a journalist and political commentator. Major parties may steer clear of candidates facing criminal charges, fearful of losing a seat in case of disqualification. But they may also consider the outpouring of popular support extended to Mr. Prasad or Jaganmohan Reddy, another regional leader facing corruption charges. “It is a strange paradox, there is huge sympathy for him, and by all accounts he is gaining ground,” Ms. Chowdhury said of Mr. Reddy. Corruption, she added, “is more of an urban middle-class issue rather than for groups who are in ascendance.”
尼尔贾·乔杜里(Neerja Chowdhury)是一位新闻记者和政治评论员，她认为，“目前尚不清楚现状是否会改变。”主要政党可能会避开那些有着犯罪记录的候选人，担心如果这些人失去资格，就会浪费一个席位。但是政党也必须考虑帕拉萨德和贾根默罕·雷迪(Jaganmohan Reddy)等人背后涌动的民意支持。雷迪是另一位面对贪腐指控的地区领袖。杜乔里谈及雷迪时说，“这真是一个奇怪的矛盾，人们对他非常同情，各种迹象显示，他的人气越来越高。”乔杜里说，贪腐“是城市中产阶级关心的问题，那些正在向上攀升的人不关心这个。”
A similar dynamic drove the improbable rise of Mr. Baitha, 60, a former revolutionary who received visitors in a snow-white tunic and pajamas, discreetly accepting a packet of chewing tobacco from an aide.
拜萨尔今年60岁，他之前是一名革命者。类似的力量推动了他在政治上的看似不可能的崛起。他穿着雪白长袍和长裤接待了访客，不显山露水地从随从手中接过一包咀嚼烟草。
Mr. Baitha’s region erupted in a peasant rebellion in the 1970s, as Maoist fighters clashed with private armies fielded by high-caste landlords. The authorities have identified Mr. Baitha as an expert in explosives who masterminded many attacks. He denies this, saying he served strictly as an ideological leader after his organization was banned by the Indian government in 1986 and never took up arms.
上世纪70年代，拜萨尔所在的地区出现了农民暴动，毛派武装分子跟当地高种姓地主的私人武装爆发了冲突。政府认定，拜萨尔是一名爆炸物专家，是许多袭击的背后主使。但是他本人否认这一点，声称从未拿起武器，在他的组织于1986年被政府取缔之后，他说自己仅仅担任思想领袖的角色而已。
Mr. Baitha decided to enter politics after he was jailed pending trial in 2005. With time on his hands, he reread the writings of Mao and Lenin, considered the effects of economic growth and technology on Indian society and began to question the Maoists’ confidence that an armed struggle would sweep away the government in New Delhi.
2005年，当时拜萨尔正被羁押，等待庭审，那时他决定踏入政坛。因为时间充裕，他重新阅读了毛泽东和列宁的著作，思考经济发展和科技进步对印度社会产生的影响，开始反思毛派分子是否过分乐观，认为自己的武装反抗真的能够将新德里的政府赶下台。
“It was a difficult period for me, but I decided,” he said. “I changed my ideology.”
他说，“那段时光对我来说非常艰难，我改变了自己的意识形态。”
He had such high name recognition in Jharkhand, he said, that he easily won the seat without leaving the jail to campaign. There was, however, the somewhat delicate matter of the criminal charges pending against him; of all 4,807 candidates elected since 2008, he had the longest record, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms.
拜萨尔说，他在恰尔肯德邦(Jharkhand)的知名度非常高，甚至在不离开监狱，没有开展竞选活动的情况下，就轻易地赢得了席位。但是，他面临的犯罪指控还是有些麻烦；根据民主改革协会的数据，在2008年之后所有的4807名候选人中，他的犯罪记录次数是最多的。
People approached in Jharkhand’s capital said the accusations were false, advanced by Mr. Baitha’s political opponents. Others conceded that there was truth in the charges, but said it had in no way damaged Mr. Baitha’s image. Santosh Kumar Dube, who holds a municipal office in Ranchi, said he believed that Mr. Baitha “fought with arms, and participated in some massacres” during his time as a Maoist. But he added: “All these charges against him were made in the process of fighting for poor people. People are not afraid of him.”
人们涌进恰尔肯德邦的首府，声称这些指控是假的，是拜萨尔的政治对手捏造的。另一些支持者承认，这些指控有着真实的成分，但是认为它们并没有影响拜萨尔的形象。山托士·库马尔·杜贝(Santosh Kumar Dube)是兰契市政府的一位官员，他说，他认为拜萨尔在还是毛派分子的时候，“曾经进行武装斗争，甚至参与了一些屠杀”。但是杜贝也说，“所有这些对他的指控，都是他在为穷人斗争期间犯下的。人们不会因此害怕他。”
For his part, Mr. Baitha admitted some anxiety about the changes in Indian politics, which he acknowledged could have prevented him from running in the first place. The new rigor over leaders’ criminal convictions, he said, has put a powerful new weapon in the hands of political opposition and has called into question the judgment of voters, who are, he said, perfectly aware who they are voting into office.
从拜萨尔的角度，他承认对于印度政坛的变化感到担忧，他也承认他有可能将失去参加竞选的资格。他说，对于政治领袖的犯罪定谳采取严厉的审核，相当于把新的武器交给政治对手，同时这也是在怀疑选民的判断能力。他认为，选民完全清楚他们究竟选出了什么人来担任公职。
“I have this concern, that my political career ends because of these charges,” he said, but then he collected himself.
他说，“我很担心，我的政治生涯会因为这些犯罪指控而结束。”但是他很快整理好自己的思绪。
“I have full faith it will not happen to me,” he said. “I have faith in the judicial system.”
他说，“我完全有信心这不会发生在我的身上。我对于整个司法体系有信心。”