A MODERN FIVE-BEDROOM HOUSE ON A LAKE IN WHISTLER
惠斯勒(Whistler)的一套现代风格的湖畔五居室
$2.89 MILLION (3,299,000 CANADIAN DOLLARS)
289万美元（329.9万加元，约合人民币1559万元）
This modern, five-bedroom five-bath lakefront chalet was designed by Ted Murray, a Vancouver architect, and completed in 2013. The exterior of the 2,897-square-foot house is made up of stone and cedar shingles, with a 750-pound concrete front door that opens on a specially designed pivot system. In the kitchen, the countertops are the same white concrete, with walnut cabinets and drawers that glide closed electronically. The concrete floors throughout the downstairs are warmed with radiant heat, and the house’s lighting system can be controlled with a smartphone.
这套现代风格的五卧五卫湖畔小别墅，由温哥华建筑师特德·穆雷(Ted Murray)设计，2013年竣工，面积2897平方英尺（约合269平方米）。外墙为石头和雪松木的材质，混凝土前门重达750磅（约合340千克），由特别设计的中枢系统(pivot system)控制它的开关。在厨房里，柜面材质也同样用的是白色混凝土，搭配胡桃木橱柜和以电动方式滑动闭合的抽屉。楼下统一铺设了混凝土地板，采用地面辐射供暖。整套房子的照明系统可通过智能手机控制。
The steps to the second floor are basalt stone and walnut, and the exposed beams in the ceilings are Douglas fir. All five bedrooms are upstairs. A picture window in the master overlooks Green Lake. In the master bathroom, the cast concrete sink has an impression of the mountains reflecting in the lake. The mirror slides aside on a track to reveal the same mountain view. The glass shower has a pebble floor, and the rest of the bathroom is tiled with limestone.
通往二楼的台阶是玄武岩和胡桃木制的，天花板上裸露的横梁选材花旗松。五间卧室都在楼上。主卧的一扇借景窗俯瞰着格林湖(Green Lake)。在主浴室内，浇注混凝土水槽给人以水中倒映的山影之感。镜子可以借由一道滑轨移向侧边，从而展现出同样的山景。玻璃淋浴间的地面铺着鹅卵石，浴室里其余部分则贴着大理石面砖。
Outside, the driveway is heated to melt the snow. The house, on nearly 0.20 of an acre, has a double garage and a hot tub. Part of the private dock detaches to serve as a raft that can be used to motor around the lake for impromptu sunset cocktail hours with the neighbors. The lake, fed by glacier runoff, is too cold for swimming, but boating, water skiing, kayaking and stand-up paddleboarding are possible.
在户外，私用车道配有地暖，可以融化冰雪。房产占地面积将近0.2英亩（约合0.081公顷），带一座可停两车的车库和一个热水浴池。私人码头有一部分是分离的，可作为木筏供主人家在湖面通勤，去参加邻居一时兴起举办的日暮鸡尾酒会。湖水是由冰川融水径流形成的，水温太低，不适合游泳，但是可以划船、滑水、划皮艇，还能玩立式浮板冲浪。
Pubs and cafes are a few minutes’ drive from the house in the village of Whistler. The village is pedestrian-only; parking is on the perimeter. Ski slopes are five minutes away, and Vancouver is about two hours by car. Many residents take seasonal float planes from a dock down the lake from the house. The scheduled flight time is around 45 minutes to downtown Vancouver.
这栋房产距离惠斯勒村里的酒吧和咖啡馆，有几分钟车程。村里不允许车辆通行，车子都停在村外。滑雪场距此五分钟路程，到温哥华大约要两小时车程。许多居民会从下游的一个码头搭乘季节性水上飞机。前往温哥华市中心的预计飞行时间为45分钟左右。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The 2008 financial crisis hit the Whistler real estate market so hard that it is still fresh in the minds of local real estate agents. “One of the first things people let go of is their second homes when money gets tight," said Steven Shuster, an agent with Sutton West Coast Realty, based in Whistler.
2008年金融危机对惠斯勒房市的打击太沉重，当地很多房地产经纪人依然对此记忆犹新。“一旦资金紧张，人们首先会放弃的一样东西，就是第二居所。”惠斯勒公司萨顿西海岸地产公司(Sutton West Coast Realty)的经纪人史蒂文·舒斯特(Steven Shuster)说。
Things are finally turning around, with sales picking up and modest but steady price increases across the board. Growth is strongest for single-family homes under a million Canadian dollars (about $876,000), Mr. Shuster said, but the luxury market, loosely defined as anything priced above 3 million Canadian dollars (about $2,628,000) is also showing signs of life. High-end homes in Whistler tend to have direct access to the ski slopes or the Fairmont Chateau Whistler Golf Club. Properties around the valley’s lakes are in short supply, but also command prices in the upper end of the range.
情况终于有了好转，销量正在上升，房价全线上涨。涨幅虽然很小，但是较为稳定。舒斯特说，低于100万加元（约合87.6万美元，人民币540万元）的独户式住宅行情最好，不过豪宅市场也表现出了复苏的迹象——这里的“豪宅”定义很宽泛，只要价格高于300万加元（约合262.8万美元，人民币1619万元）的住宅都包括在内。惠斯勒的高端住宅一般直接靠近滑雪场或者费尔蒙惠斯勒城堡高尔夫俱乐部(Fairmont Chateau Whistler Golf Club)。山谷湖畔的房产比较紧俏，而且在高端房产中价格最高。
Many of the homes in Whistler are condominiums and townhomes. In a desirable area like the Blackcomb Benchlands, two-bedroom condos start at 550,000 Canadian dollars ($481,800), said Bob Cameron, an agent with RE/MAX Sea to Sky Real Estate. Single-family homes in the area start at about 2.5 million Canadian dollars ($2.19 million). Parts of the Benchlands are so close to the slopes that ski instructors will pick up children at their front doors to take them out for their lessons, and it is possible to walk into the village for a bite to eat.
惠斯勒有很多住宅是共管公寓和联排别墅。在黑梳山山麓(Blackcomb Benchlands)这类热门地区，两居室的共管公寓起价是55万加元（约合48.18万美元，人民币297万元）。房地产公司RE/MAX Sea to Sky Real Estate的经纪人鲍勃·卡梅伦(Bob Cameron)说。该地区的独户式住宅起价250万加元（约合219万美元，人民币1349万元）左右。部分地段离滑雪场太近了，以至于滑雪教练会上门来接儿童学员，带他们去上课。步行去村里吃点东西也是可以的。
Emerald Estates, where this house is situated, is an older development that straddles Highway 99, which cuts through the valley. The area is a mix of modest older homes from the 1970s and 80s and houses built in the past few years. Mr. Cameron said the result is harmonious. “The planning people have done a good job of convincing new owners to build something that fits into the natural environment as well as it can,” he said.
这套房子所在的翡翠庄园(Emerald Estates)是一个较老的开发项目，其范围横跨第99号高速公路(Highway 99)，这条高速公路穿过了山谷。这片地区内，既有质朴的老房子，也有70至80年代、乃至近几年建造的新房。卡梅伦说，这种布局的结果是和谐的。“这样的规划做得很好，它促使新的业尽可能修建了一些能够融入自然环境的设施。”他说。
Properties in Emerald Estates that face Green Lake, the only lake in Whistler Valley that allows motorboats, cost around 1.2 million Canadian dollars ($1.05 million) just for the land, Mr. Cameron said. On the other side of the highway, land is worth less than half as much.
格林湖，是惠斯勒山谷里唯一一座允许汽艇通行的湖泊。在翡翠庄园中，只要是面向格林湖的房产，光是地价就要120万加元（约合105万美元，人民币648万元）；而在高速公路的另一面，地价还不及这边的一半。
WHO BUYS IN WHISTLER
谁在惠斯勒买房
Before the 2008 financial crisis, about 40 percent of Whistler’s buyers were from the United States, especially the Seattle area, according to James Collingridge of RE/MAX Sea to Sky Real Estate, the listing agent for the property. “There was a lot of Microsoft money in Whistler,” he said. Now he estimates that 8 percent of buyers are from the United States. Their numbers have picked up this year, but the majority of the buyers are still Vancouver residents who want a weekend home near the ski slopes. There are a few buyers from Britain and Australia, but Mr. Collingridge said they are outnumbered by buyers from other parts of British Columbia.
2008年金融危机之前，在惠斯勒买房的人大约有40%来自美国，尤其是西雅图地区，上述数据来源于这套房产的挂牌经纪人、RE/MAX Sea to Sky Real Estate的詹姆斯·科林布里奇(James Collingridge)。“微软有很多人在惠斯勒买房。”他说。现在，他估计有8%的购房者来自美国。这一群体的数量在今年（2014年——译注）已有所增长，但多数购房者还是温哥华人，他们想在滑雪场附近购买一栋周末度假屋。还有部分购房者来自英国和澳大利亚，但是科林布里奇说，他们的人数不及不列颠哥伦比亚(British Columbia)其他地区的购房者。
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Canada, but Mr. Shuster said some properties are harder for foreigners to finance than others. Many of the town’s condos are zoned to be rentals most of the year, with owners restricted to using the property for only 28 days in winter and 28 days in summer. Mr. Shuster said this rule was put in place to ensure enough short-term rentals for tourists. Properties zoned this way are much harder even for Canadians to finance, and nearly impossible for United States buyers. For properties without such restrictions, up to 80 percent financing is available for qualified United States residents, Mr. Shuster said.
在加拿大，外国人购房没有限制，但舒斯特说，对于外国人而言，购置某些房产的贷款难度比购置一般房产要高。镇里有许多共管公寓在分区上被划定为出租房，全年大多数时候都要出租。业主使用房产的期限被限定为冬季28天、夏季28天。舒斯特说，之所以实施这项规定，是为了确保游客有充足的短租房源。购买这类房产时，就算是加拿大买家也很难贷到款，美国买家就更别提了。舒斯特说，如果购买的是没有此类限制的房产，那么对于符合要求的美国居民，贷款额度可达80%。
Transaction costs include a transfer tax equal to 1 percent on the first 100,000 Canadian dollars ($87,600) and 2 percent on the balance. Legal fees are usually around 1,000 Canadian dollars. Real estate agent commissions are paid by the seller, and a building inspection costs 400 to 800 Canadian dollars. Mr. Shuster said if the property is new construction or is being used as a vacation rental by the current owner, a goods and services tax equal to 5 percent of the purchase price is charged at the time of sale.
交易成本包括转让税，房款中的头10万加元（约合87600美元，人民币54万元）收取1%的转让税，超出的部分收取2%。律师费则通常在1000加元（约合人民币5396元）左右。房地产经纪人的佣金由卖家支付，房产验收费需要花400到800加元（约合人民币2158到4317元）。舒斯特说，如果房产是新建筑、或者被现任业主拿来做度假出租房，那么在成交时将收取买价的5%作为商品及服务税。
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Annual property taxes are currently 9,200 Canadian dollars ($8,059), according to the listing agent. Because they were based on the value of the property in 2013, when the house was unfinished, they are likely to be higher in the future.
挂牌经纪人表示，全年的税费目前为9200加元（约合8095美元，人民币49644元）。由于确定这一数额的依据是房产在2013年的价值，当时别墅还没竣工，所以以后税费可能会上涨。