ROHTAK, India — Meena, 20, was a village girl herself, so she can recognize the changes that come when girls from the village arrive in this city as students and take their first gulps of freedom.
印度罗塔克——20岁的米纳(Meena)本人来自农村，所以她能感受到乡村女孩到城里上学并第一次享受到自由后所产生的那种变化。
Blue jeans, forbidden at home, are crammed into a corner of the backpack for a midday costume change. A cellphone is acquired and kept on silent.
她们背包的某一处会塞上一条家乡禁止穿着的蓝色牛仔裤，准备着中午换装。她有了一部手机，总是调在静音状态。
She always tells them: You never know who might be watching. If word gets back to the village that a young woman has stepped across the village’s moral boundaries — it could be something as simple as being spotted chatting with a group of male students after class — her life could be upended in a day.
米纳总是告诉她们：很难说谁会在监视你们。如果这样的话传回家乡，说年轻姑娘逾越了村里的道德规范，她的生活可能会顷刻之间天翻地覆。而这种越界，可以简单到就是被人看到课后与一群男同学聊天。
“I tell them, we have to be careful,” Meena said. “Maybe they are not aware that someone can watch them and go and report back.”
“我对她们说，一定要小心，”米纳说，“也许她们没有意识到，可能有人会盯着她们，然后回去报告。”
As young Indian women leave rural homes to finish their education in cities, often the first women in their families to do so, they act like college students everywhere, feeling out the limits of their independence. But here in the farming region of Haryana State, where medieval moral codes are policed by a network of male neighbors and relatives, the experience is a little different. There is always the danger that someone is quietly gathering information.
当印度女孩离开农村的家乡到城里去接受教育的时候（往往是家族里第一批这样做的女性）她们的表现与世界各地的大学生没什么两样，都会探索独立的界限。不过，在印度哈里亚纳邦的农村地区，她们的经历会有点不一样。在这里，男性邻居和亲属构成的网络依然维持着古老道德规范的运行。危险总是存在，不知道何时就会有人悄悄搜集她们的信息。
The old and new are continually rushing at each other in India, most starkly in places like Haryana, a largely rural, conservative state abutting New Delhi whose residents can commute 20 miles to work in nightclubs and office buildings. But their home villages are sleepy places, whose main streets are patrolled by glossy, lumbering black water buffalo.
在印度，新旧冲突不断，最明显的就是在哈里亚纳邦这种地方。该邦临近新德里，基本上是由保守的农村地区所组成，居民会通勤20英里（约合32公里）去夜店或写字楼上班。然而，他们的家乡却依然冷冷清清，油光水亮的黑水牛缓慢地走在大街上。
The villages are ruled by khap panchayats, unelected all-male councils that wield strong control over social life, including women’s behavior. That job becomes much harder once the women have left for the city. When one khap leader listed city shops that were allowing young women to store mobile phones and change into Western clothes, another suggested posting informers outside the shops with cameras to capture photographic evidence as women came and went.
管辖村民的是“五人长老会”(khap panchayat)，成员均是未经选举直接就任的男性，牢牢掌控着当地的社交生活，其中包括女性的举止。一旦女性离乡进城，这项工作的难度就大大增加了。为此，一名长老列出了允许年轻姑娘寄存手机并改换西式打扮的城中商铺名单，另一名长老则建议，在这些店铺外安插眼线，用相机来捕捉女性进出的照片，作为证据。
Om Prakash Dhankar, a khap leader who voiced his support for this approach, said measures like these would protect young women from much worse dangers that might follow if they freely cultivated friendships with men.
长老奥姆·普拉卡什·丹卡尔(Om Prakash Dhankar)表示赞成这种做法。他说，此类措施将保护女性，让她们免遭与男性自由发展友谊可能带来的严重得多的危险。
“The mobile plays a main role,” he said in an interview. “You will be surprised how this happens. A girl sits on a bus, she calls a male friend, asks him to put money on her mobile. Is he going to put money on her mobile for free? No. He will meet her at a certain place, with five of his friends, and they will call it rape.”
他接受采访时称，“手机起到了重要作用。你会感到惊讶，怎么会有这种事。女孩坐在公交车上，给男性朋友打电话，让他给自己的手机里充钱。难道他会白白给女孩手机里充钱吗？不会。他会在某个地方等着她，带上五个朋友。然后人们会把这叫做强奸。”
A generation ago, women here lived in complete seclusion from men, and could appear in public only wearing a lightweight cloth that completely covered their head and face. Though that tradition is fading, many women are still not allowed to leave the house without permission from a father or husband.
二三十年前，当地女性的生活完全与男性隔离开来。出现在公共场合的时候，她们必须身披一块薄布，完全遮住头面。尽管这种传统正在消失，但许多女性还是不能在没有父亲或丈夫许可的情况下出门。
Haryana’s khaps focus much of their energy on defending a single ancient prohibition: Men and women are not allowed to marry anyone from the same village. The local interpretation of ancient Hindu texts holds villagers to be brothers and sisters, rendering their unions incestuous. Young people defy the ban very rarely, but those who do are sometimes murdered by a gang of male relatives. As much as the khaps condemn these “honor killings,” they are just as adamant about preventing these romances, a quest that involves tight control over women.
哈里亚纳邦的长老们将力气大多花在了捍卫一项古老的禁忌上，那就是同村的男女禁止通婚。按照当地对古老的印度教经文的理解，同村人都被认为是兄弟姐妹，因此他们的结合属于乱伦。年轻人极少违抗这条禁令，不过违反者有时会被一群男性亲属谋害。虽然长老们极力谴责这种“荣誉谋杀”，但他们也会同样坚决地阻止此类恋情，而这么做就会涉及严格控制女性。
Meena, who left her village several years ago to escape an arranged marriage, said young women there were terrified of the elders in the khap, who scrutinized their behavior and issued a steady stream of criticism. The criticism, in turn, terrified her parents, who feared being ostracized.
几年前，为了躲避包办婚姻，米纳离开了她的村子。她表示，年轻女性很害怕长老，因为他们会严格审查她们的举止，不断发出批评之声。然后这些批评也会吓坏她们的父母，因为他们害怕遭到排斥。
“They would say, ‘Why is your daughter going around in the village with her head naked?’ ” she said. “If you were walking with your head straight, the khap guys would say, ‘Look down at the ground, don’t make eye contact. Don’t have irrelevant conversations.’ ”
“他们会问，‘你们的女儿为什么在村里这样不戴头巾地走来走去？’”她说，“如果你走路的时候抬着头，长老会的人就会说，‘往地上看，不要有眼神交流。不要进行无关紧要的交流。’”
Whether their influence extends to college women in Rohtak, one of Haryana’s largest cities, is another matter.
但他们的影响是否能远及在罗塔克的女大学生又是另一回事，罗塔克是哈里亚纳邦最大的城市之一。
As young women poured out of the gates of Maharishi Dayanand University recently, walking down the road in the golden light of afternoon, they described the alchemy that takes place when young women from the village mix with classmates from big cities. Some begin illicit romances, something strictly forbidden at home. But for many, the changes are modest ones.
近日，当年轻女子们走出智者达耶难陀大学(Maharishi Dayanand University)的校门，走在洒满午后金色阳光的大街上，她们谈起农村女孩与来自大城市的同学融合之后所出现的神奇变化。一些人不顾阻拦，开始恋爱，这在家乡可是严格禁止的。但对很多人来说，变化并不大。
“In the cities, the girls have phones, because parents provide them, but in the village we are not given phones,” said Sunita Meham, 23. “She comes to college and sees that other people are using phones, so she also wants to use one. If her parents agree, and if her friends call her on that phone, they say, ‘Why do you have so many friends?’ To save herself all these questions, she has a secret phone.”
“在城市里，女孩们有电话，因为父母会买给她们，但是我们在村子里的却得不到，”23岁的苏妮塔·麦哈姆(Sunita Meham)说，“她来到大学里，看到其他人在使用电话，所以她也想有一个。如果她的父母同意给她一部电话，如果她的朋友们打电话给她，他们会说，‘你为什么有那么多朋友？’为了免去所有这些麻烦，她会把电话藏起来。”
Satish, who runs a photocopy shop next to the college, said the khaps are simply too far away to monitor students’ behavior. Phones are often exchanged as gifts and kept secret from the family, he said. “Generally,” he said, “everyone around here has two mobiles at least.”
萨蒂什(Satish)在这所大学旁边开一家复印店，他认为长老们离得太远，根本无法监督学生们的行为。他说，电话常常作为相互馈赠的礼物，不会让家人知道。“基本上，”他说，“这里的每个人都至少有两部电话。”
Sonal Dangi, 20, shrugged off the talk of tighter controls. Social change had taken hold in Haryana, she said, and it could not be halted.
20岁的索纳尔·当吉(Sonal Dangi)对这种控制加强的说法不以为然。她说，哈里亚纳邦的社会已经出现了改变，没有什么能让它停下来。
“Everything has its positive and negative sides,” she said. “But they can’t stop it.”
“每件事都有积极和消极的一面，”她说，“但是他们无法阻止这种趋势。”
But others were far more wary. The moral arbiters from the village have informers everywhere, Meena said. Police officers often work with the khap, many said. A young man from the same village might report back to a woman’s family if he spotted her walking with a man, others said. So could the rickshaw driver who drove her to the city.
但其他一些人则要谨慎得多。米纳说，村里道德权威们的眼线到处都是。许多人表示，警察们也会配合长老们的指示。其他人则说，如果一名女子和一位男性走在一起，同村来的年轻男人看到了就可能会向那位女孩的家人报告。此外，载她去市区的人力车夫也可能会这么做。
All the young women interviewed in Rohtak could reel off stories of classmates who simply disappeared, withdrew from school and were swiftly married to men of their parents’ choosing after word of a moral infraction reached their village.
在罗塔克接受采访的所有年轻女性都可以列举出一长串同学们的故事，一旦违反道德规范的消息传到村子里，有些女孩要么突然消失退学，要么很快嫁给她们父母挑选的男人。
The possibility of violence ran like a thin blade through their chatter: Just last month, a young man and woman studying in Rohtak were killed in public by the woman’s relatives after they were discovered violating the ban on same-village romance. The man was beheaded.
而暴力的影子也像锐利的刀锋般浮现在她们谈话的始终：仅仅上个月，在罗塔克学习的一对年轻男女就当众被女方的亲属杀死，因为他们被发现违反了同村恋爱的禁忌。那名男子被斩首。
“You know,” said Puja, a 19-year-old student, “the first time the parents hear that the girl is roaming around, either they take her home and get her married or else they kill them.”
“你知道，”19岁的学生普亚(Puja)说，“当父母第一次听说女孩在自由行事，他们不是带她回家把她嫁出去，就是杀死这对年轻人。”
Even within the khap panchayats, there seemed to be little consensus on how, or whether, to keep an eye on young women away from home. In interviews, numerous local khap leaders scoffed at Mr. Dhankar’s notion of placing surveillance units at places where young women change out of their traditional, billowing clothes.
甚至在长老会里，在如何或是否要监视远离家乡的年轻女子一事上，看来也没有完全达成共识。在采访中，很多地方长老会的领袖对丹卡尔的说法嗤之以鼻，他们不同意在特定地点安排人员监视那些会换去传统的宽大服装的年轻女子。
But Mr. Dhankar was undaunted, saying the photographs could be shown to the girls’ parents, or to friendly police officers, who could threaten to press trumped-up criminal charges unless the behavior stopped. Great dangers await, Mr. Dhankar said, when a young woman keeps secrets from her family.
但是丹卡尔并不因此而退怯，他认为可以把这些照片给女孩的父母看，或者给友好的警察看，警察可以籍此威胁要捏造罪名指控她们，除非她们停止这种行为。丹卡尔说，一旦年轻女子开始向家人隐瞒些什么，就会出现巨大的危险。
“It starts with a small lie,” he said. “Then they get into borrowing money and other bad things. The end result is that she will commit suicide or someone else will kill her.”
“一开始只是一个小谎，”他说，“然后她们开始借钱或者干其他的坏事。最终的结果会是，她会自杀或者别人杀了她。”
As he was explaining this, his daughter, a high school science teacher in her early 40s, chimed in with a robustly dissenting view, and Mr. Dhankar admitted cheerfully that the women in his house generally ignore what he says.
就在丹卡尔解释他的理论时，他的女儿、40岁出头的高中理科教师插进话来，对他的观点表示强烈反对，丹卡尔乐呵呵地承认，他家里的女性基本都无视他的说法。
Growing serious, he added that it was misguided to see any collision of interests between young women and the traditionalists in the village. They are, he said, on the same team.
然后他的神情又严肃起来，并补充说，有人认为年轻女性和村里传统主义者的利益是相冲突的，这么说是不合理的。他认为，这两个群体是站在一边的。
“As long as the girl lives within moral codes, she can have as much freedom as she wants,” he said. “If they are going after love affairs or extra freedom, then they are killed.”
“只要女孩们的行为遵守道德规范，她就尽可以享受自由，”他说，“如果她们想追求爱情或者额外的自由，那么她们就会被杀。”