SHANGHAI — Some of the passengers were clutching their heads, complaining about hangovers, staring with glazed eyes out of the tour bus at the rural scenery. For many of the people on our package tour of North Korea — mostly men in their 20s and 30s — drinks in our small hotel bar near the DMZ the night before had led to dancing with the waitresses until the early hours.
上海——一些乘客揪着头发，抱怨着宿醉后的不适，同时用呆滞的双眼盯着车窗外的乡村风景。我们这个朝鲜包价旅游团中大多是二三十岁的男子，许多人前一天晚上在非军事区附近我们酒店里的小酒吧喝多了，与女服务员跳舞一直跳到了天亮。
My own hangover came with pangs of guilt. I felt uncomfortable partaking in what is essentially voyeurism of the politically repressed.
我自己的宿醉则伴着一阵阵的罪恶感袭来。参与这样一种相当于对政治上受压迫民众进行窥视的活动，让我感到不舒服。
Tourism in North Korea — one of the world’s most secretive countries — is on the rise. I went with mixed feelings but left believing that traveling to the Hermit Kingdom brings more benefits than not.
旅游业在朝鲜这个世界上最神秘的国家正在兴起。我在去往朝鲜的路上心情复杂，但离开朝鲜的时候却觉得，到这个“神秘王国”游览一番还是利大于弊的。
I visited last month during the state gymnastic extravaganza, the Mass Games. The hotels in Pyongyang were full and our group had to drive an hour and a half from the city center to find a room.
我上个月的朝鲜之行正赶上朝鲜全国性的盛会，“大型团体操表演”(Mass Games)。平壤的酒店人满为患，我们的旅行团不得不驱车到距市中心一个半小时车程的地方寻找住处。
Critics like to point out that the government uses photographs of Westerners bowing before statues of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il for propaganda. All tourists are brought to multiple monuments on obligatory stops.
经常有批评人士指出，朝鲜政府使用西方人在金日成(Kim Il-sung)和金正日(Kim Jong-il)的塑像前鞠躬的照片进行宣传。所有的游客都必须去一些地方，被带到不同的纪念场所参观。
A more serious concern is that tourism brings hard currency, helping to prop up one of the most frightening totalitarian regimes in the world, where survival for millions of people depends on food aid from abroad. We made almost daily stops at foreigner-only shops that sold everything from North Korean soccer shirts to hand-painted propaganda posters. Tickets to the Mass Games cost up to $410 per person (on top of the more than $2,000 for the five-day trip).
更让人担忧的是，旅游业带来了实实在在的收入，帮助支撑了一个世界上最可怕的集权政权。在朝鲜，数百万人需要依靠国外的粮食援助生存。我们几乎每天都会到只接待外国人的商店购物，这里销售包括朝鲜足球衫到手绘宣传海报的所有东西。大型团体操表演的门票票价最高可达每人410美元（除此之外，这五天的旅行费用是2000多美元）。
And the tours are closely supervised. We did not see any of the estimated 200,000 prisoners living and dying in gulags, nor could we see inside ordinary homes where state radio is broadcast incessantly all day. We could not leave our hotel at night.
我们的行程受到了严密的监督。我们看不到挣扎在生死之间的大约20万名劳改营囚犯，也不可能看到普通人家里播放着国有广播电台全天不间断的节目。我们在夜间不能离开酒店。 
Yet tourism has one big advantage: It broadens North Koreans’ contact with the outside world, providing a glimpse, however small, of an alternative universe. Some tour operators use their unique access to the country to promote exchanges and outreach in sports and the arts. From cradle to grave North Koreans are indoctrinated to hate “American imperialists.” Americans are blamed for everything, from starting the Korean War to murdering school children.
然而旅游业有一个很大的好处：它扩大了朝鲜与外界的联系，为朝鲜人提供了窥视另一个世界的机会，虽然看到的东西很有限。有些旅行运营商利用他们进入这个国家的“特权”，推动交流以及体育和艺术方面的推广活动。朝鲜人一生都被教导要憎恨“美帝国主义者”。一切都是美国人的错，包括发动朝鲜战争和杀害学童。
In the 2004 BBC documentary “North Korea: A State of Mind,” which followed two teenage gymnasts preparing for the Mass Games, one scene shows the electricity failing in a girl’s Pyongyang apartment.
英国广播公司(BBC)2004年跟随两个为“大型团体操表演”做准备的少年运动员，拍摄了纪录片《某一国家》(North Korea: A State of Mind)，里面的画面记录了一名女孩在平壤家中停电后的一幕。
“Bloody Americans, it’s their fault,” mutters a family member.
女孩的家人嘟囔着，“该死的美国人，都是他们的错。”
A young North Korean male guide told me passionately: “We hold our Great Leaders in esteem so that we can survive and can continue victory against the American imperialists. They have created untold suffering for 60 years.”
一位年轻的朝鲜男导游激动地告诉我：“我们尊敬我们的伟大领袖，只有这样我们才能活下来，继续在反对美帝国主义者的战斗中取得胜利。60年来，他们给我们带来了无尽的痛苦。”
Still, not all North Koreans toe the party line quite so aggressively, and my sense was that things might improve. One amicable guide in his 30’s confided in me: “I like the American people. The government is bad, but the people are good.”
尽管如此，并不是所有的朝鲜人都如此激进地走在党的路线上，我的感觉是，情况可能在好转。一位30多岁的友善的导游偷偷告诉我：“我喜欢美国人。美国政府很坏，但是美国人很好。”
Later, during a bus ride around Pyongyang on Sept. 11, a rain storm struck. “Do you know why the sky is crying?” the same guide asked over the microphone. “On Sept. 11 so many people died by terrorists – so the sky is crying for them.”
后来，9月11日，我们在平壤市内的巴士游览过程中突遇大雨。这名导游用麦克问道：你知道为什么老天在哭吗？9月11日，恐怖分子害死了那么多人——老天是在为他们哭泣。
The benefits of tourism, of course, work both ways. Movies, such as the recent remake of “Red Dawn,” depict North Koreans as faceless villains. Media reports tend to focus on the country’s military saber rattling or the weird and the wacky behavior of its leaders.
当然，旅游业带来的益处是双向的。有些电影就把朝鲜人描绘成千人一面的坏人，比如最近翻拍的《赤色黎明》(Red Dawn)。媒体报道往往关注朝鲜炫耀武力的事件，或是朝鲜领导人奇特而古怪的行为。
I was surprised by the humanity that binds us: a couple in military uniform walking hand-in-hand; a girl in a bowling alley powdering her face in the bathroom mirror; a father bending down tenderly to give his small daughter a piggy-back ride.
我惊讶于那些能引起所有人共鸣的人性的展现：一对穿着军装的夫妇手牵手走着；在保龄球场，一个女孩在洗手间的镜子前往脸上擦粉；一位父亲温柔地弯下腰，让幼小的女儿爬到背上。
According to people who visited just a few years ago, North Koreans tended to ignore foreign visitors. But I saw a different country, in the capital at least.Children waved and said hello, encouraged by their parents. On National Day, when North Koreans celebrate the founding of the D.P.R.K., we came across an impromptu dance of men and women in a Pyongyang park. An elderly man in a khaki uniform, his Kim Il-sung badge pinned to his chest, whisked me away in a waltz.
几年前访问过朝鲜的人们说，朝鲜人往往对外国游客视而不见。但是我看到的情况不同，至少是在平壤。孩子们挥手，打招呼，他们的父母也鼓励他们这样做。在国庆日，朝鲜人庆祝朝鲜民主主义共和国的成立的那天，我们在平壤的一个公园里看到了一群即兴起舞的男男女女。一位穿着卡其布军装、胸前别着金日成像章的老人拉着我跳起了华尔兹。
The total number of Western tourists is still small: roughly 5,000 Westerners travel to North Korea every year. But these numbers will continue to increase.
到朝鲜旅游的西方游客仍然很少：每年大约只有5000人。但是这个数字会不断增长。
The government in August announced plans to attract more tourists through new direct flights and has recently opened its borders for the first time to visitors all year round. English speaking guides at the state-owned Korea International Travel Company have ballooned from around 15 a decade ago to more than 100 today, a spokesman from my tour company told me.
朝鲜政府8月宣布了通过新的直飞航班吸引更多游客的计划，前不久还首次向游客全年开放边境。我的旅行社的一名发言人告诉我，在国有的朝鲜国际旅行社(Korea International Travel Company)，说英语的导游与10年前相比已经大幅增加，从15人左右增长了到如今的100多人。
In North Korea there is a proverb: “To see is to believe.” On National Day, as we walked around a festive Pyongyang where students played cards in the park and families picnicked, I heard the sounds of a song trickling through the woods. I asked my guide whether it was a national or a revolutionary song.
朝鲜有一句谚语：“眼见为实”。在国庆日，当我们游览着节日氛围浓厚的平壤时，一些学生在公园打牌，还有不少人和家人野餐，我听到了树林里传出悠扬的歌声。我问导游，这是否是一首爱国歌曲或革命歌曲。
“Ah,” he said, shaking his head. “Neither. It is a song about human life.”
“啊，”他摇着头说，“都不是，这是一首关于人生的歌。”