The construction site outside the train station in one of Tokyo’s central night life and shopping districts had the typical workers in hard hats and fluorescent vests. And, not so typical, two pink-and-white Hello Kitty figures hanging off the barriers that keep pedestrians from stumbling into a hole in the road.
东京市中心一个夜生活和购物区里的火车站外边有一个工地，戴安全帽、穿荧光背心的工人看上去颇为寻常。不太寻常的是，用以防止行人跌进马路上一个坑洞的围挡物上，悬挂着两个以粉白两色Hello Kitty形象示人的警示牌。
Such figures, along with more than 30 varieties including elephants, giraffes, deer and dolphins, crop up on road barriers all over Japan, an effort to entertain passers-by who might otherwise regard construction sites as nuisances. They are part of a culture of “kawaii,” the Japanese word for cute, an adjective not generally associated with construction sites elsewhere.
这些Hello Kitty，连同包括大象、长颈鹿、梅花鹿、海豚在内的30多种形象，突然出现在日本各地的路障上，旨在讨得那些本来可能对工地感到厌恶的行人的欢心。它们是“卡哇伊(kawaii)”文化的组成部分。日语中的卡哇伊意为可爱，但在其他地方，这个形容词一般不会和工地有什么关联。
Sendai Meiban, which makes road signs, traffic cones and other construction-related materials, said it introduced its first kawaii traffic barricade, a monkey, 10 years ago on Hokkaido, the northernmost of Japan’s main islands.
生产路标、交通锥和其他施工相关用具的公司仙台铭板(Sendai Meiban)称，10年前，它在位于日本本岛最北端的北海道推出了自己的第一款可爱版路障：一只猴子。
Tetsuya Hatakeyama, an official at the Tokyo National Highway Office that authorizes road work in the city, said the Hello Kitty figures spotted at the train station in the shopping district, Shinjuku, were introduced in December and have become something of a tourist attraction. Foreigners stop for selfies with the figures, he said, and “children spot and enjoy them.”
东京国家高速公路办公室(Tokyo National Highway Office)的官员畠山晢也（Tetsuya Hatakeyama，音）说，为前述新宿购物区内的火车站增加点缀的那些Hello Kitty警示牌，是在去年12月引入的，目前已经成了某种对游客颇有吸引力的东西。他说，外国人会停下脚步，在这些警示牌前自拍，“孩子们看到了，也很喜欢”。
And it goes beyond commercial cartoon characters.
此外，事情已经超越了商业卡通角色的范畴。
Fusao Hasegawa, 27, a contemporary artist in Tokyo, is trying to transform the humble traffic cone into an art form. He has designed cones imprinted with a mold of the face of Jizo Bosatsu, a Buddhist deity known as the guardian of the road. Several were placed around temples in Kita-Kamakura, about 30 miles southwest of Tokyo.
现年27岁的东京当代艺术家长谷川维雄(Fusao Hasegawa)，正致力于把不起眼的交通锥变成一种艺术形式。他设计出了借助模具制成，带有佛教中的道路守护神——地藏菩萨——面部图案的交通锥。其中一些已经被摆放在了东京西南30英里处北镰仓那边的一些寺庙周围。
Mr. Hasegawa said he was also drawing on the tradition of Do-So-Jin, a category of Shinto gods believed to watch over travelers and often memorialized in stone figures set by the side of roads.
长谷川维雄说，他还借鉴了供奉道祖神的传统。道祖神是神道教中据信可以守护旅人的神明，其石像常常被供奉在路边。
“Once people see my art,” he said, “if they see an ordinary traffic cone, it will remind them of this work.”
“人们一旦看过我的艺术品，”他说，“如果再看到一个普通的路锥，就会想起这件作品。”