Somehow our three children were out of the house and otherwise engaged, leaving my wife and me a rare moment to ourselves. So I suggested to Karen that we take advantage by heading straight to the bedroom.
我想方设法把三个孩子支出门，让他们忙活别的事去，好和妻子享受一下二人时光。机会难得，我跟卡伦说，我们别再浪费时间啦，直奔卧室是正经。
She rebuffed me, asking, “How do men get anything done when they’re thinking about sex all the time?”
她却拒绝了我，还反问道：“你们男人满脑子都是做爱，还怎么做事啊？”
Perhaps I could have come up with some explanation, but that’s not really what she was after. We had been married for 15 years by then and were raising three daughters.
当然我也不是想不出辩解之辞，只是我很清楚她意不在此。我们结婚已经15年，生养了三个女儿。
In addition, Karen was a busy ob/gyn and part-time mohel. Our opportunities for having sex were scarce. Karen’s interest was even scarcer.
此外，卡伦是一名繁忙的妇产科医师，还兼职犹太教的割礼执行人(mohel)。我们平时几乎没什么机会做爱。卡伦对此更是兴趣缺缺。
Friends who married long before I did told me that passion may wane in a marriage, but the love doesn’t have to. This was from couples who were still in their 20s.
有个结婚比我早得多的朋友曾经告诉我，在婚姻当中，激情有可能褪去，但爱情却未必如此。这可是多年来始终如胶似漆宛如新婚的夫妇的经验之谈。
I couldn’t believe it. To me, single and looking for love and sex, the two seemed so intertwined that I couldn’t imagine one ending while the other blossomed. Fifteen years into my marriage, I was hoping that just a touch of rekindled lust would enable my love to more easily flourish.
我觉得简直难以置信。对于当时还是单身，正满心期待寻找爱侣的我来说，爱和性这两者根本就是密不可分的，其中之一穷途末路而另一个却渐入佳境这种事情，完全超出了我能想像的范围。当我自己的婚姻步入第15个年头之时，我仍然觉得恰到好处的欲火更有助于爱情的蒸蒸日上。
Karen wasn’t as concerned about commingling those twin emotions. Her point of view was reinforced each day at work when her patients complained how their interest in sex had faded to the background of life’s challenges.
卡伦不像我这样关注这两种相生相伴的情绪之间的纠葛。每天上班时她的患者都跟她抱怨生活的艰难让她们“性味”索然，这进一步坚定了她的立场。
For these women and my wife, there had to be the perfect confluence of events for sex to happen. My wife’s requirements were that her job had to be going well, the children didn’t need her attention, the house had to be clean, the temperature had to be between 76 and 84 degrees, and the Democrats had to control at least one branch of government.
在那些女人以及我的妻子看来，性爱需要完美的“天时地利人和”，缺一不可。譬如，我妻子要求的条件是：工作顺利，孩子不需要她操心，房间整洁干净，室温介于华氏76至84度（即24至29摄氏度）之间，以及民主党至少控制着一个政府部门。
Her patients would ask if there wasn’t some pill that would let them ignore the externals and give them back their desire. Karen would assess the acuteness of the concern and try to offer a solution, but she knew there was no magic pill. All she could do was commiserate.
患者们也曾问她有没有什么药可以让她们忽视这些外部因素，重新点燃最原始的欲望。而卡伦只能帮她们评估一下忧虑的严重程度，并尝试提供解决方案，但她自己也清楚世上没有这样的灵丹妙药，她唯一能做的就是与她们同病相怜。
She would come home and tell me how typical we were and that I would just have to deal with my oversize libido like all the other unsatisfied married men out there.
于是，她回到家跟我说，我们家的情况实在太正常不过，我只需要像其他所有欲求不满的已婚男人一样管好自己过度兴奋的下半身就行了。
Then we learned she had Parkinson’s.
再然后，我们得知她患上了帕金森氏症(Parkinson’s)。
Suddenly we were faced with new challenges that completely outweighed any issue of unequal sexual desire. Our fantasy of the next 35 years had included Karen staying in a job she loved for as long as she wished and then for the two of us to shift to a retirement of travel and newfound hobbies.
突然之间，我们被推到了一个严峻得多的新挑战面前，性欲不对等什么的在它面前完全不值一提。在此之前，我们向往中的未来35年的生活是：卡伦在她喜欢的工作岗位上愿意工作多久就多久，等我们退休了就去旅行，并从事新的爱好。
That image was replaced by one depicting her early exit from the job she loved and a retirement filled with financial concerns, frequent doctor visits and uncertain health.
如今，这幅美好愿景却被一幅惨兮兮的境况取代：她不得不早早离开心爱的工作，退休生活中财务问题频出，不断地看医生，还有无法确定的健康状况。
Our first adjustment was to try to live in and enjoy the present. It took a few months of finding the right medication and dosage, but since Karen’s Parkinson’s was in the early stages and could be controlled, it wasn’t long before her natural optimism took over.
对此，我们做出的第一个调整是尝试活在当下，享受每一天。我们花了几个月的时间寻找合适的药物和剂量，卡伦的帕金森氏症尚处于早期，还可以控制，没多久，她天生的乐观情绪就又重新占了上风。
For now she would be living her same life, with the minor addition of keeping a secret (so as not to alarm anyone or harm her career), and taking some pills each day.
眼下，她仍过着与以往一样的生活，只不过需要保守一个小秘密（以免吓到别人或损害到她的职业生涯），并每天服药。
Those pills would change our life more than the Parkinson’s.
那些药物给我们的生活带来的改变比帕金森氏症还要大。
Some of the most common Parkinson’s medications have a potential side effect of compulsive behavior. This can destroy lives when, for example, formerly staid members of the community end up gambling away their life savings or compulsively shopping their way to financial ruin.
治疗帕金森氏症的药物最常见的潜在副作用之一是强迫行为。有时候，这足以毁掉一个人，例如，它可能让曾经稳重保守的社区成员痴迷赌博直至输光自己毕生的积蓄，或者化身购物狂魔买得自己倾家荡产。
Thankfully, my wife suffered neither of those side effects. What she did experience, however, was hyper-sexuality.
值得庆幸的是，我妻子倒是没有出现上述那些副作用。她的问题是性欲亢奋。
It started slowly. I would set the mood for a romantic evening and gird myself for the familiar rejection only to have her say “yes.” The positive reinforcement led me to try again a few days later, and again I was rewarded.
这件事是慢慢露出端倪的。有一天，我照例精心安排好了一个浪漫之夜，也做好了被拒绝的心理准备，结果她一口答应了。这种积极的回应令我大受鼓舞，没过几天，我故伎重演，又一次得手了。
Soon I stopped hearing “no” entirely. Then she was the one suggesting we race to the bedroom when an opportunity arose.
不久，我发现她完全不再拒绝我。再然后，逮着机会就建议我们往卧室跑的人变成了她。
More than suggesting, she insisted. Unlike my meek, hopeful forays, she began to demand it, urgently and often and in places I never dared.
事实上，她的态度已经不是提议，而是坚持要求了。与我温柔、充满希冀的心血来潮不同，她开始迫切地、频繁地需求性爱，甚至在一些我从来不敢尝试的场所也如此。
Her former parameters for sex also became somewhat more generous. Now she merely had to have a job, the children had to be alive, the house had to be standing, the temperature had to be between 0 and 104 degrees and the Democrats had to control at least one branch of government. The combination of those things happening all at once occurred with great frequency.
从前她做爱时要求的那些苛刻条件也放宽了很多。现在，只要工作尚保得住，孩子们还有口气儿，房子没塌，气温在华氏0至104度（零下18至40摄氏度），还有民主党控制着至少一个政府部门就行了。这些事情同时发生的几率还是挺高的。
I was thrilled with our renewed sex life, and so was Karen. She kept saying how happy she was to be back in the club.
我对我们的性生活重获新生欣喜若狂，卡伦也有同感。她不断地跟我说能回到享受性爱的世界里是多么开心。
She could no longer relate to her low-libido patients, but did wonder if there may be some way of prescribing her drug as an off-label aphrodisiac. It’s used for restless leg syndrome as well as Parkinson’s. But medical ethics kept her from doing that.
她再也无法与她那些性冷淡的患者产生共鸣，不过，她很好奇能否将自己正在服用的这种药物作为非正式春药开给患者——它是用来治疗不宁腿综合征(restless leg syndrome)和帕金森氏症的。但医德不允许她这样做。
Meanwhile, Karen’s Parkinson’s progressed to the point where she had to increase her medication. I wondered whether this might also increase her obsession with sex.
与此同时，卡伦的帕金森氏症不断恶化，以至于她不得不加大药量。我不知道这是否也增强了她对性的痴迷与执着。
I got my answer a week later when out of the blue she asked me the exact same question she had asked a few years before, although this time with a different inflection and wholly different meaning.
这个答案在一星期后揭晓了——她突然没头没脑地向我问出了几年前的那个一模一样的问题，只是这次她的语调完全不同，表达的意思也截然相反。
Rather than being dismissive of and confounded by male behavior, she asked plaintively and with empathy: “How do men get anything done when they’re thinking about sex all the time?”
她没有像过去那样满含着对男性行为的困惑和不屑一顾，反倒是带着感同身受的同情和哀怨：“你们男人满脑子都是做爱，还怎么做事啊？”
That’s when I started to fade. Whether it was the excessive demand, an aging libido or psychological stress (knowing that if I didn’t perform, she would have to go to other medications with potentially worse side effects), I was no longer able to consistently please her. Sex became more obligation than joy. I looked for ways to avoid it. In two short years we had completely switched roles.
也就是从这时候起，我开始力不从心。也不知道是因为她需索无度，还是因为我的性欲随着年龄而衰退了，又或者是因为心理压力（我知道如果我不能满足她，她将不得不换用可能造成更糟糕副作用的其他药物），总之，我无法一如既往地取悦她了。性爱好像更多地成了一种义务，而不是快乐。我开始想方设法地逃避它。短短两年之内，我们的角色已经完全反转。
Perhaps if I had my usual support of friends and family to talk through all this, I might have been O.K. But we were still living in fear of discovery, keeping everything hushed. I would soldier on.
或许，如果可以像往常一样寻求朋友们的支持，并与家人谈论这些问题，我可能还能挺过这一关。但是，我们都害怕被人察觉，只好对一切守口如瓶。我只能硬着头皮坚持下去。
To keep going, I sought help from my doctor in the form of Viagra or Cialis, but he was reluctant to prescribe erectile dysfunction drugs for an otherwise healthy 52-year-old male. Beyond that, he didn’t know which medication would be best for me if he even accepted that one was necessary.
因此我向医生求助，想让他给我开点伟哥(Viagra)或希爱力(Cialis)，但他不愿给一名本来挺健康的52岁男性开治疗勃起功能障碍的药物。除此之外，他还说，在他认为根本没必要用药的情况下，他没法确定哪种药最适合我。
He asked about our frequency of sex. I told him nine to 12 times a week.
他询问我们性生活的频率。我告诉他一周9至12次。
“Oh,” he said. “I didn’t realize the severity of the problem.” He wrote me prescriptions for all the drug options and told me to let him know which worked best.
“哦，”他说，“我之前没有意识到问题有这么严重。”他在处方里写下了所有我可以选用的药物，并让我回头告诉他哪种药的效果最好。
It’s understood that when one spouse gets Parkinson’s, the other spouse will be affected by it. But we never expected that I would have to start taking medication to help with the side effects of my wife’s medication. She was cursing her amped-up libido for what it was doing to me. Something had to give.
当夫妻一方罹患帕金森氏症时，另一方也会受到它的影响，这种事大家都能理解。但我们万万没有想到，我得依靠药物的帮助来应付我妻子的药物副作用。她说这全怪她那亢进的性欲。看来我们必须得放弃一些东西了。
What gave was the secret we had kept for two years: her diagnosis. Karen decided that the consequences of going public and perhaps losing her job (and of course enduring all the “mohel with Parkinson’s” jokes she’d be subject to) couldn’t be worse than living in this bubble we had created.
于是，我们公开了保守了两年的秘密：她的诊断结果。卡伦认定，虽然公开病情或许会让她丢掉工作（当然，还要忍受所有关于“患帕金森氏症的割礼执行人”的笑话），但这些后果总不会比生活在我们自己创造的这个自欺欺人的肥皂泡里更糟糕。
So she began to tell people, and when she did, everyone was sympathetic and supportive, which allowed Karen to focus her obsessive behavior into something worthwhile: fund-raising and advocating for Parkinson’s research.
卡伦不再隐瞒。当她向人们说起自己的病情时，所有人都报以同情和支持，这促使她将自己的强迫行为转向了更有意义的事情：为帕金森氏症的研究筹款和宣传。
Her newly found voice allowed us to start a foundation, Shaking With Laughter (we joke that she’s “Shaking” and I’m “Laughter”), that has raised nearly $700,000 for Parkinson’s research in four years.
她的这项新事业促使我们建立了一个名为“笑到浑身发颤”(Shaking With Laughter)的基金会（还开玩笑说我负责“笑”，她负责“浑身发颤”），并在四年期间为帕金森氏症的研究筹集了近70万美元的资助。
Three years after Karen’s coming out, she retired from her medical practice and we now work together on the foundation, being partners in a way we never were before.
在卡伦公开病情三年后，她从医疗岗位上退休，现在我们合作操持基金会的事务，建立了一种全新的伴侣关系。
After 25 years of marriage, our sex life has slowly reverted to a dynamic more common to couples who have been married for decades, not weeks.
结婚25年后，我们的性生活终于慢慢恢复到已婚数十年的夫妇中更常见的互动模式，不像是刚结婚的小夫妻了。
The Parkinson’s, relentless as it is, has progressed. Karen’s interest in sex has not only been redirected, but also tempered considerably by the advancing physical complications of the disease.
帕金森氏症仍在无情地继续恶化。新的事业部分转移了卡伦对性爱的兴趣，她身体上并发症的不断进展也从很大程度上缓和了她对性爱的需求。
Last year we became empty nesters. This is the time I envisioned long ago when she and I would travel and rekindle our sex life. My libido isn’t as strong as it was before the diagnosis, but it is back to being stronger than Karen’s.
去年，我们成了空巢老人。很久以前，我曾设想过到这时候我们就结伴旅行，重燃爱欲之火。如今，我的性欲虽已没有卡伦确诊之前强烈，但总算又比她略高些了。
I’m O.K. with that. I’m thankful for our multiyear interlude of youthful lust. We were each given the rare opportunity to be on opposite ends of the desire spectrum and have an appreciation and understanding of this common sexual divide.
我觉得这样还不错，甚至有些感激这几年充满青春欲念的插曲。我们分别体验了爱欲需求的两个极端，这些难得的机会让我们得以对性欲差距这一常见现象抱有了更多的理解和认同。
And in the end, my married friends were right: There may be a limit to passion, but love flourishes.
最后，还是我那个结婚多年的朋友说得好：激情或有限度，爱情却可以长青。