On the small sidewalk that hugs a corner coffee shop in the Tiong Bahru neighborhood in Singapore, a long line was once again firmly in place. Though it was just late morning, people had gathered to make sure they’d get a morsel of the lunch treats sold out of the closet-size stall that is Loo’s Hainanese Curry Rice.
在新加坡中峇鲁一带，一个街角咖啡店旁的人行小道上又排起了一条长长的队。虽然还不到中午，但人们已经排起队来，为的就是能吃上这家“卢记海南咖喱饭”(Loo’s Hainanese Curry Rice)的午餐。这个摊位的大小和衣帽间差不多。
The view through the oil-slicked window that separates the line from the food revealed a handful of narrow shelves packed with dishes filled with mounds of juicy squid drenched in spicy tamarind gravy, pork belly braised in a sweet soy sauce, chicken slathered in fermented shrimp paste and deep-fried to crispy perfection and, finally, crunchy planks of thin pork chops coated in a saltine-cracker crumble and fried.
一扇油亮的窗户把排队的人与菜肴分隔开来，透过窗户，可以看到几个狭窄的货架，上面堆满了各种菜肴：浸泡着酸辣肉汁的鱿鱼，在甜酱油里炖过的五花肉，涂满发酵虾酱后炸到酥脆的鸡肉，还有抹上威化饼干面包屑后煎炸的薄脆猪排。
What you would not find here is Hainanese chicken rice. Though it is arguably Singapore’s most famous dish, there is much more to Hainanese cuisine in the country. It has a breadth that serves as a reminder of Singapore’s colorful migrant history and is one of the country’s first fusion foods.
你在这里找不到海南鸡饭。虽然海南鸡饭堪称新加坡知名度最高的美食，但在这个国家，海南菜的范畴远远超出海南鸡饭。海南美食的内涵极广，不仅折射了新加坡丰富多元的移民史，也是该国最早的多风味融合食物之一。
The Hainanese style of cooking in Singapore can be traced back to immigrants from Hainan Island in China, who began arriving after the British established a trading port there in 1819. Among the wave of Chinese, people from Hainan were among the slowest to arrive, a fact that dictated the trade they would take up. “They were pretty much the last people on the boat,” said Yin Phua, a Singapore-based food and travel TV producer who is of Hainanese descent. “What was left when they got here was jobs in the kitchen.”
新加坡的海南烹饪风格可以追溯到来自中国海南岛的移民，1819年，英国人在新加坡建立了一个贸易港口之后，就有海南人前来这里。但是在那波中国移民浪潮中，海南人是最晚到达新加坡的，这决定他们将要从事的行业。“他们差不多是最后一批到达这里的人。”潘茵（Yin Phua，音译）是居住在新加坡的一名食品和旅游电视制片人，海南后裔。“他们到这里的时候，剩下的就是厨房里的工作了。”
These kitchens were often in colonial households, where the Hainanese, known as “cookboys,” learned to make standard British dishes such as roast beef but also adapted some Hainanese dishes using British or Southeast Asian touches, said Cynthia Chou, a native Singaporean who is associate professor and head of the Southeast Asian Studies section at the University of Copenhagen. Along the way, they “also acquired innovative techniques to use whatever available condiments there were to recast the dishes,” she said. Hainanese chicken rice, for example, is spiced up with chile and tropical pandan leaves, and tastes unlike the typical chicken dishes you’d find on the actual Hainan Island.
据哥本哈根大学(University of Copenhagen)原籍新加坡的副教授、该校东南亚研究部负责人辛西娅·周(Cynthia Chou)说，这些厨房往往是在殖民者的家里，在那里工作的海南人被称为“cookboys”，他们学会了制作标准的英式菜肴，比如烤牛肉，但也把英国或东南亚一些烹饪特色运用到了海南菜中。在此过程中，他们“还掌握了创新手法，利用各种可用的调味品，对菜肴进行再创。”她说。比如，海南鸡饭用辣椒和热带班兰叶来调味，味道跟你真正去海南岛吃到的那种典型的鸡肉菜肴并不一样。
After World War II, when the British began leaving Singapore and kitchen jobs dried up, the Hainanese cooks began setting up snack counters and hawker stalls selling British-inflected Chinese dishes, Ms. Chou said, signifying the beginning of Hainanese cuisine in the country.
辛西娅·周介绍说，二战结束后，英国人开始撤离新加坡，厨房工作的机会减少了，海南厨师就开始支起小吃柜台和饮食档位，售卖具有英国风味的中国菜，这标志着新加坡海南美食的开端。
Hainanese food is one of several delicious varieties of ethnic Chinese food you’ll find in Singapore’s hawker centers, restaurants and homes. Beloved Teochew-style porridges, Fukienese fried seafood noodles and hearty Cantonese soups have, over the decades, become tightly woven into Singapore’s gastronomic fabric.
在新加坡的小贩中心、餐馆和家庭中，海南美食是常见几种中国菜之一。几十年来，大家喜爱的潮州粥、福建炒海鲜面和粤式滋补汤，已经紧密融入新加坡的美食版图。
In my many years of living in the United States after growing up in Singapore, as Singapore’s cuisine has become more internationally known, people have often asked me about Hainanese chicken rice — which is tasty, to be sure. But as delectable as it is, I’ve long known that it represents just the tip of the iceberg. So, on a trip back to Singapore last year, I was determined to more fully investigate this sliver of my country’s cuisine — and refresh my Hainanese palate.
我在新加坡长大，在美国生活了多年。随着新加坡美食在国际上的知名度提高，人们经常问我关于海南鸡饭的事情——当然它很美味。但尽管它确实很好吃，我却一直明白它只是新加坡美食的冰山一角。因此，去年回新加坡老家的时候，我下定决心，更加全面地探索新加坡美食的这个方面——重温并更新我对海南菜的品味。
One evening, I was making good on a promise to take my family to a good Hainanese meal, and was soon leading them past smoky karaoke bars and shops offering young Vietnamese brides for a fee in Golden Mile Tower, among the sleaziest of Singapore’s shopping malls. My family, though very adventurous and food-loving, had never been to the restaurant we were heading to (or spent much time in this mall) before. But a Hainanese-Singaporean friend had highly recommended it. And as the smells and chopstick sounds from a restaurant in a bright basement began to hit us, their anxiety dissipated.
有一天晚上，我决定兑现带家人去一家很棒的海南餐厅的承诺，很快，我就带领着他们进入新加坡最破落的购物商场之一的黄金大厦，经过那里烟味熏天的卡拉OK厅，以及付费介绍年轻越南新娘的店铺。我的家人虽然热爱探险，也喜欢美食，但之前从未到过我们要去的那家餐厅（也很少出入这家商场）。但有一位祖籍海南的新加坡朋友强烈推荐了它。而且，当闻到一家明亮的地下室餐厅飘来的食物味道，听到那里发出的筷子声音时，我们全家的焦虑感就消退了。
The Golden Mile Thien Kee Steamboat is a cavernous place whose dozens of tables are each anchored with a large silver bowl set atop a burner in the center. Though the place bills itself as a Hainanese restaurant, its signature dish, the steamboat (or hot pot), is a generic Chinese dish in Singapore. But it was tasty anyway, especially as the broth became milkier and sweeter after we cooked liver, fish, maw, eggs and more in it.
黄金端记暖炉是个类似洞穴的地方，有几十张桌子，每张桌子中间都有一个巨大的银色锅，下面放着一个暖炉。尽管这个地方称自己是海南餐厅，它的招牌暖炉（或者火锅）是新加坡很普通的中餐。但不管怎样，它很美味，尤其是在我们在锅里煮了肝、鱼、鸡蛋和其他食材后，汤底变得越来越浓稠，越来越甜美。
But the standout here was the pork chops — the crust had a lovely crunch to it, and its tomato sauce was delicious. Equally remarkable was the fact that it had pork satay on the menu, a Hainanese dish that has become harder to find in recent years. As nicely grilled as it was, it only made me think of a certain satay man elsewhere.
但这里最赞的是它的猪排——外皮松脆可口，配的西红柿酱汁也极其美味。同样令人称赞的是，它的菜单上还有猪肉沙爹，近年这种海南美食已经变得越来越难找。不过，尽管这里的猪肉烤得不错，但这道菜只是让我想起街头某个卖沙爹烤肉串的人。
I found him a few days later, when I headed to Tiong Bahru once again. From about 2 p.m. onward, a plump man in flip-flops can be seen pushing a large wooden cart along the sidewalks. From the moment he appears, it’s only a matter of minutes before a crowd gathers around his cart. Once you’ve placed your order, he counts out the sticks and grills them on the spot, bundling them up with ketupat (Malay rice cakes packed in coconut leaves) and cucumber.
我在几天后再去中峇鲁时找到了这个人。大约从下午2点开始，就会看到一个穿着拖鞋的胖男人，沿着人行道推着一辆很大的木制手推车。他一出现，短短几分钟内就会有一堆人围到他的手推车前。你下单后，他就会立刻数出你要的几串沙爹，开始放在炉上烤，并用马来粽（用椰树叶子裹起来的马来米糕）和黄瓜把沙爹串裹起来。
When eaten right away, the satay is absolutely delicious, with each bite of pork interspersed with a beautifully charred chunk of fat. Dipped into spicy peanut sauce mixed with crushed pineapple — a signature of Hainanese satay — these skewers are mesmerizing.
烤好马上吃，沙爹串绝对美味，每咬一口猪肉都夹杂着烧焦到恰到好处的肥肉块。浸入混有菠萝碎的香辣花生酱——海南沙爹的特色——这些烤串让人如入仙境。
Even with this smorgasbord, there are still a few Hainanese standards I had yet to try, so I ventured off to Chin Chin Eating House, on Purvis Street, one of Singapore’s oldest, most beloved Hainanese restaurants. The setting is basic, little more than a fluorescent-lit coffee shop with chipped tables and plastic stools. But the menu is impressive: It even has delicious Hainanese mutton soup, a thick, dark broth packed with mutton and the flavors of cinnamon, dried dates, star anise and a litany of Chinese herbs; and chap chye, a classic dish of Chinese cabbage and carrots stir-fried with slivers of fish maw.
即使吃了这个大杂烩，仍有一些海南特色小吃我还没有尝试，所以我就一路跑到位于珀维斯街的津津餐室，这个餐厅是新加坡最老、最受欢迎的餐厅之一。里面的摆设很简单，只有荧光灯照明的咖啡店和有缺损的桌子和塑料凳子而已。但菜单令人印象深刻：它甚至有美味的海南羊肉汤，浓稠，深色的肉汤里满是羊肉，以及桂皮、干枣、八角和一系列中国药草混在一起的香味；它还有经典的炖杂菜，这是将白菜和胡萝卜煸炒与鱼肚条放在一起做成的菜。
For the finale to my Hainanese quest, I went to a leafy, rustic corner near Queenstown in Singapore. Nestled amid the trees on Whitchurch Road was ColBar Cafe, a baby-blue wooden shack that looks as if it’s firmly stuck in the 1950s. The restaurant did indeed open in 1953 — as a Hainanese-inflected canteen serving the British military. (ColBar is short for Colonial Bar.) And when you step inside, the décor takes you back to those tropical colonial days, with yellowing photos of British soccer and cricket teams lining the walls. On the counter was that day’s dessert: brownies perched on a plastic plate floating in a dish of water to keep away the ants.
在这次寻找海南美食之旅的最后，我去了新加坡皇后镇附近的一个绿意葱葱，看上去很质朴的角落。在惠特彻奇路树木掩映中的是ColBar咖啡厅，一个浅蓝色的木制小屋，看起来就好像停留在20世纪50年代。这家餐厅确实是在1953年开的——当时是一家受到海南菜特色影响的餐厅，服务于英国军队。（ColBar是殖民酒吧[Colonial Bar]的简称。）走进店内，里面的装饰让你立刻回到那些热带殖民时光，墙上挂着泛黄的照片，上面是英国足球和板球队。柜台上是当天的甜品：巧克力蛋糕放在一个塑料盘上，塑料盘漂浮在一碟水上，防止蚂蚁接近。
A curt woman with a shock of white hair who was wearing an old housedress recommended that my mother and I order the Hainanese pork chops, which are not on the menu, but the locals know to order it. The chops were a little more British than the others we’d tried: There’s much less breading, and they come tossed with tomatoes, fried potatoes and large peas in a sweet tomato sauce. The Hainanese curry there, too, was different: The gravy was thicker and sweeter, but the chicken itself was just sheer falling-apart goodness.
一个有些粗鲁、身穿旧居家服、一头白发的女人，推荐母亲和我点海南猪排，菜单上没有这道菜，但当地人都知道点它。相比我们之前尝试的猪排，这些猪排更英式一些：上面裹的面包屑少些，随盘上来的还有西红柿、炸土豆和放在甜番茄酱里的大豆子。那里的海南咖喱也很不同：酱汁更浓更甜，但鸡本身已煮得很烂，是绝对的好东西。
As my mother pulled out toothpicks from her purse for us, and we sat back in our chairs thinking of our meal, I couldn’t help but be thankful.
母亲从手袋里拿出牙签分给我们，我们背靠着椅背放松片刻，回想刚吃的美食，我不由感到庆幸。
The Hainanese may have been the last to arrive, but after having eaten my way through many pork chops, mutton soups and curry rices, I’m certainly glad they made it at all.
海南人或许是最后一批到达这里的，但在这次旅行期间吃过很多猪排、羊肉汤和咖喱饭后，我很高兴他们还是来了。