I had just shaken the president-elect’s normal-size hand and he was moving on to the next person when he wheeled around, took a half step back, touched my arm and looked me in the eye anew.
我握了握候任总统不大不小的手，他走向下一个人，这时他转过身子，退后半步，摸了摸我的胳膊，再一次直视我的眼睛。
“I’m going to get you to write some good stuff about me,” Donald Trump said.
“我一定能让你为我写点好话，”唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)说。
It’s entirely possible. I keep an open mind. But I’m decided on this much: Winning the most powerful office in the world did nothing to diminish his epic ache for adoration or outsize need to tell everyone how much he deserves it.
这是完全有可能的。我保持着开放的心态。但我也非常确定一个事实：尽管赢得了世界上最有权势的职位，他仍然强烈渴望着赢得他人的敬爱，而且过于迫切地需要告诉所有人，这些是他应得的。
He sat down for more than an hour with about two dozen of us at The Times on Tuesday afternoon, and what subject do you suppose he spent his first eight minutes on? When the floor was his, to use as he pleased?
周二下午，他来到时报，同我们二十多名代表举行了大约一个小时的座谈，他想说点什么都可以，一屋子人全在洗耳恭听，你觉得前八分钟他会用来聊什么话题？ 
The incredibleness of his win two weeks ago.
两个星期之前他的胜利有多么不可思议。
“A great victory,” he said as he went back, unbidden, through all the Trump-affirming highlights: the size of his crowds; the screens and loudspeakers for the overflow; the enthusiasm gap between his rallies and poor Hillary Clinton’s. It’s a song I’ve heard so often I could sing it in my sleep.
“一次伟大的胜利，”他说，然后主动回忆起所有那些鼓舞特朗普阵营士气的亮点：支持者集会的规模；因为人数超额而另外准备的大屏幕与扩音器；他的集会是多么热情洋溢，与可怜的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)之间形成多么鲜明的反差。简直像一首我听过太多次、做梦都能唱出来的歌。
He volunteered that until he came along, Republican presidential candidates had been foiled in both Michigan and Pennsylvania for “38 years or something.” The “something” apparently covered the actual figure, 28.
他主动说起，直到他出现后，共和党总统候选人才在密歇根和宾夕法尼亚两州结束了“38年还是多少年来着”的挫败史，这个 “多少年”显然包括了实际的数字，28。
He said that he got close to 15 percent of African-Americans’ votes, though exit polls suggest it was just 8 percent, and he asserted that their modest turnout was in fact a huge compliment to him, demonstrating that “they liked what I was saying” and thus didn’t bother to show up for Clinton.
他说自己得到了接近15％的非裔美国人的选票，尽管出口民调表明只有8％，他断言，这个人群的低投票率实际上是对他的巨大赞许，表明“他们喜欢我的话”，所以没有白费力气去投票支持克林顿。
He mentioned the popular vote before any of us could — to let us know that he would have won it if it had mattered and his strategy had been devised accordingly.
他第一个主动提到了普选这个话题――只为让我们知道，如果要紧的是普选，那他就会赢下普选，他的战略会做出相应调整 。
“The popular vote would have been a lot easier,” he said, making clear that his Electoral College triumph was the truly remarkable one.
“普选本来就容易得多，”他表示自己在选举团投票中赢得的胜利才是真正了不起的。
For Trump, bragging is like breathing: continuous, spontaneous. He wants nothing more than for his audience to be impressed.
对于特朗普来说，吹牛就像呼吸一样：绵绵不绝、自发自动。他只想给观众们留下好印象。
And when his audience is a group of people, like us, who haven’t clapped the way he’d like?
如果他的观众是我们这样的一群人，一群没有像他所希望的那样夹道欢迎他的人呢？
He sands down his edges. Modulates his voice. Bends.
他磨平了棱角。调整了声音。还放低了身段。
That was perhaps the most interesting part of the meeting, the one that makes his presidency such a question mark. Will he tilt in whatever direction, and toward whichever constituency, is the surest source of applause? Is our best hope for the best Trump to be so fantastically adulatory when he’s reasonable that he’s motivated to stay on that course, lest the adulation wane?
这可能是这次会议中最有趣的部分，为他的总统任期画上了这样一个问号。是不是只要能确保获得掌声，他会往任何方向、任何一个选区倾斜？是不是说，要想让特朗普有最佳的表现，我们要在他通情达理的时候表达无比热情的赞誉，这样一来，他会为了让这种赞誉声不消失而继续走在正轨上？
The Trump who visited The Times was purged of any zeal to investigate Clinton’s emails or the Clinton Foundation, willing to hear out the scientists on global warming, skeptical of waterboarding and unhesitant to disavow white nationalists. He never mentioned the border wall.
来到时报的特朗普没什么热情去调查克林顿的电子邮件或克林顿基金会，在全球变暖问题上愿意听取科学家的意见，对水刑表示怀疑，并且毫不犹豫地否定白人民族主义者。他根本没有提到边境墙这回事。
He more or less told us to disregard all the huffing and puffing he’d done about curtailing press freedoms, and he looked forward to another meeting — a year from now — when we’d all reunite in a spirit of newfound amity to celebrate his administration’s uncontroversial accomplishments. I could see the big group hug. I could hear “Kumbaya.”
他或多或少是在告诉我们，不要理会他关于限制新闻自由的那些气急败坏的言论，他期待着一年后的另一次会面，届时我们将带着新产生的友好情谊重聚在一起，庆祝他的政府所取得的无可争议的成就。我简直能看到一大群人互相拥抱，高歌《欢聚一堂》(Kumbaya)的场面。
And though one of his splenetic tweets just seven hours before our meeting had again branded The Times a “failing” news organization, he said to our faces that we weren’t just a “great, great American jewel” but a “world jewel.”
虽然在我们的会议开始之前七个小时，他还发表了若干恶狠狠的推文，其中一则再次将时报称为一个“每况愈下”的新闻机构，当着我们的面，他却说，我们不仅是“最最伟大的美国瑰宝”，而且是“世界的瑰宝。”
There was a lesson here about his desire to be approved of and his hunger to be loved. There was another about the shockingly unformed, pliable nature of the clay that is our 70-year-old president-elect.
这让我们明白，他有多么期望得到认可，多么渴望被爱。我们还明白了另一件事，我们这位70岁的候任总统天性就像粘土一样没有定型、易受影响，这一点已经到了惊人的地步。 
His reservations about waterboarding, he said, arose from a conversation he’d just had with James Mattis, a retired Marine general under consideration for secretary of defense. During that talk Mattis had bluntly questioned waterboarding’s effectiveness — and so, now, did Trump.
他说，他对水刑持保留意见，是因为他刚刚与詹姆斯·马蒂斯(James Mattis)谈过话，这位退役海军将军也是新任国防部长的人选之一。在那次谈话中，马蒂斯直言不讳地质疑水刑的效果——所以现在，特朗普对此也表示怀疑。
It was as if he’d never really thought through the issue during that endless campaign, and it suggested that the most influential voice in Trumplandia is the last one he happened to listen to. That’s worrying, because some of the voices he has thus far put closest to him — those of Steve Bannon, Mike Flynn, Jeff Sessions — aren’t the most constructive, restrained, unifying ones.
就好像他在这场漫长的竞选活动中从未真正考虑过这个问题，这表明在特朗普的世界里，最有影响力的声音就是他碰巧听到的最后一个声音。这很令人担心，因为迄今为止，他放在身边最近的地方的那些声音――史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)、迈克·弗林(Mike Flynn)、杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions) ——并不是最具建设性、最克制的声音，也不是有凝聚力的声音。
And to my eyes and ears, Trump still has grandiose intentions in lieu of concrete plans. Toward the end of our meeting, he went so far as to prophesy that he might be able to accomplish what his predecessors couldn’t and broker a lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
以我自己的所见所闻，特朗普仍然只有宏伟的意图，而不是具体的方案。在我们的会议快要结束时，他甚至预言自己或许可以完成他的前任们不能完成的事业，在以色列人和巴勒斯坦人之间建立持久的和平。
That’d definitely do the trick. We’d all be writing nothing but very, very good stuff about him then.
假如这真的成功了，我们到时候一定会写非常非常好的好话。