A fast-growing class of properties in New York is encouraging people not only to visit, but to stay awhile.
在纽约，有一种房型正在急剧增加，吸引着房客们在暂住之余，考虑长居上一阵。
Known as extended-stay, corporate or short-term housing, these units have proliferated in recent years across Manhattan, both in buildings dedicated solely to this function and scattered inside existing rentals and condos.
该房型称为长居房(extended-stay)、职工住房或短租房(corporate or short-term housing)。近年来，它们在曼哈顿普及开来，不仅有专作此用的住宅楼，还散布于已有的出租房源和共管公寓当中。
A cross between hotel rooms and apartments, these furnished dwellings usually contain dishwashers and dining tables, like typical homes, but a tenant doesn’t have to sign a full-year lease.
这些精装修的住宅，介于酒店客房和公寓之间，一般配有洗碗机和餐桌，就像典型的家庭住宅一样，不过房客不需要签订整年的租约。
Part of the uptick in supply can be explained by softening rents that are prompting landlords to search for alternate ways of filling units, analysts say. But they add that fundamental changes in hiring practices — businesses choosing temporary workers over full-time ones — are also having a major influence.
分析人士表示，该房型的供应量之所以上涨，或许是因为，租房者数量的下跌迫使房东们不得不另谋出路。不过他们也提到，现在的企业喜欢招临时工而不是正式工，这种招工选择也对此有重大影响。
“As corporations outsource and cut back and downsize, the need to have employees for shorter assignments has grown,” said John Fox, a senior vice president with PKF Consulting, a hotel consulting group. “And those employees are the kinds of folks who utilize these places.”
“随着企业外包业务、削减成本、裁汰员工，工薪族对短租房的需求已经上升，”酒店顾问集团安鹏投资咨询有限公司(PKF Consulting)的高级副总裁约翰·福克斯(John Fox)说，“这些工薪族正是此类住宅的受众。”
The exact figures for extended-stay housing are somewhat of a moving target; a unit may be rented to an executive, say, for six months, and then, in a strong housing market, leased to someone in a more traditional multiyear lease, effectively removing it from the market.
可以说，长居房的确切数字处于浮动状态；比如，你可以把一个住宅单元租给一名企管人员，租期为6个月。接下来，等到房市行情较好的时候，又可以把它租给别人，按照更传统的方式签订一份多年租约，这样一来，这套房子就相当于撤牌下市了。
Some analysts also like to differentiate among hotel units, which can usually be leased for less than 30 days, and those in other kinds of properties, which usually require a longer stay.
有些分析人士还喜欢对比租期一般可以小于30天的酒店客房，和其它往往需要签订更长租约的房型。
In Manhattan, the number of non-hotel units has fluctuated between 3,200 and 4,000 units in the last several years, though this year it is expected to be higher, according to Mark Skinner, a partner with the Highland Group, a hotel consultancy in Atlanta.
据亚特兰大酒店顾问集团Highland Group的合伙人马克·斯金纳(Mark Skinner)说，近几年来，非酒店住宅单元的数量在3200套到4000套之间浮动，今年的数量预计将会更多。
But hotel units have expanded more steadily. Last year, the New York metropolitan area had 9,309 units, according to Highland, up from 8,330 in 2009, Mr. Skinner said, adding that 1,931 are under construction.
不过，酒店住宅单元的增长更稳定。斯金纳说，根据Highland的调查，去年，纽约都会区有9309套酒店住宅单元，比2009年的8330套有所增长。此外还有1931套正在建设。
Even though most of those units are outside Manhattan, the borough is experiencing a growth spurt, with a single property accounting for much of it, the Marriott-branded Courtyard Residence Inn Manhattan Central Park.
尽管这些住宅单元大多在曼哈顿之外，不过曼哈顿地区的酒店住宅单，也正呈现出井喷式的增长。其中有一处楼盘起到了巨大的推波助澜作用，那就是万豪(Marriott)旗下位于曼哈顿中央公园的万豪万怡及居家酒店(Courtyard Residence Inn)。
Billed as the tallest single-purpose hotel in the Western Hemisphere, the crystalline 68-story skyscraper, which opened this winter at Broadway and West 54th Street, has 261 extended-stay rooms, out of 639 in all.
这座透明的68层摩天大厦，号称西半球最高的单一用途酒店，于今冬在百老汇和西54街交汇处正式开张。酒店共有639间客房，其中长居房有261间。
In the spirit of serving as a home away from home, those rooms, on the building’s top floors, provide pots and pans in their kitchen areas; those who need extra space for meetings can avail themselves of an airy guests-only lounge on the third floor, which has lofty floor-to-ceiling windows and serves a daily complimentary breakfast.
在打造温馨家园的设计理念指导下，这些位于顶层的客房在厨房区提供了厨具，需要会客场所的客人，可以到三楼的一间仅供客用的气派休息室去，室内有敞亮的大落地窗，还每天提供免费早餐。
Rooms at the $320 million hotel, which was developed by the G Holdings Corporation and is operated by Interstate Hotels and Resorts, start around $350 a night, though for long visits, discounts of 20 percent are possible, said Kathleen Duffy, a Marriott spokeswoman.
万豪的一名女发言人表示，该酒店耗资3.2亿美元（约合人民币19.8亿元），由G Holdings Corporation开发，由州逸酒店与度假村(Interstate Hotels and Resorts)酒店管理公司运营，房价从每晚大约350美元（约合人民币2171元）起，长居的客人有机会享受20%的折扣。
Though extended-stay guests ride in a separate elevator, they do encounter other patrons in the black-marble lobby, which is a mix that other properties, like the Sutton Court Hotel Residences on East 57th Street, try to avoid. All 110 units at that 35-story building are reserved for long-term guests.
尽管长居客是单独乘用一部电梯的，他们还是可以在黑色大理石的大堂见到其他房客。其他酒店则试图避免这一情况，比如位于东57街的萨顿苑酒店公寓(Sutton Court Hotel Residences)。该酒店共有35层，110间客房，所有客房都是为长居客准备的。
In a similar nod to privacy, Sutton Court, a former apartment house that its owner, the LeFrak Organization, has been gradually converting since 2009, does not schedule regular daily housekeeping visits.
萨顿苑酒店公寓以前是一座公寓楼，自2009年起，渐渐被其所有者莱弗拉克集团(LeFrak Organization)改建成了酒店式公寓。店方并不提供每日定时的客房服务，这同样是出于对房客隐私的尊重。
“We don’t offer daily bed-making services because people don’t want it,” said the general manager, Dieter Seelig.
“我们不提供每日铺床服务，因为客人不需要，”总经理迪特尔·西利格(Dieter Seelig)说。
A hospitality industry stalwart, Mr. Seelig said his chief competitors were traditional hotels, though Sutton Court’s rooms tend to be about twice the size. And at about $200 a night, they are far more affordable, he said, even if a minimum 30-night stay is required, as the property is not zoned as a hotel.
西利格是酒店服务业的一位强人，他说自己的主要竞争对手是传统酒店——尽管萨顿苑公寓酒店的客房面积往往有传统酒店客房的两倍大，且大约每晚200美元（约合人民币1240元）的房价，也比后者便宜得多。只是，房客必须至少住满30个晚上，因为这栋房产并未被划分为酒店属性。
As for customers, Sutton Court and similar businesses still attract employees of investment banks who are in town for training programs; recently separated spouses, homeowners in the midst of renovation projects and medical patients are other frequent clients, owners say.
萨顿苑的所有者表示，就客户群体而言，萨顿苑及其同行依然吸引着进城参加培训项目的投行员工；此外，新分居的夫妇、在装修房子的业主以及就医的患者，也都是酒店的常客。
But increasingly, the film industry is also among the roster of guests, particularly when movies are being shot in New York, said Bradley J. Korman, the co-chief executive of Korman Communities, whose AKA brand has developed four elegant extended-stay properties since 2004.
不过，越来越多的电影人也加入了房客的行列，有影片在纽约拍摄的时候尤其如此，科曼社区酒店(Korman Communities)公司的联席首席执行官布拉德利·J·科曼(Bradley J. Korman)如是说。此公司旗下的AKA品牌，自2004年起已经开发了四座装潢高雅的长居房楼盘。
A fifth, which Korman is developing with the Shorewood Real Estate Group and Prodigy Network, is planned for 84 William Street, a redbrick former college dorm in the financial district. Featuring 136 units, plus a cafe and restaurant, it is scheduled to open next year.
目前，科曼公司正携手Shorewood Real Estate Group和Prodigy Network，共同开发该公司的第五座楼盘。该楼盘地处金融区，位于威廉街84号(William Street)，是一座曾用作大学宿舍的红砖建筑。改建后，它将包括136个住宅单元，外加一家咖啡馆兼餐厅，预计明年正式开放。
A key to that building’s success, as with other properties, will be keeping overhead costs low, which Mr. Korman says is possible because each address requires a staff of about 25, versus about five times that at a hotel. “We try to produce the revenue of a hotel with the expense structure of an apartment building, which is hard but very profitable,” he said.
和其它楼盘一样，该楼盘项目要想取得成功，关键之一在于保持较低的营业成本。科曼说，这是可能做到的，因为每家酒店式公寓大约需要25名员工，而一般酒店的员工数量则是其五倍。“我们试图像酒店一样赚钱，同时遵循公寓楼的开支模式。这很难，但是利润空间很大。”他说。
Although some historians say that hotel-apartment hybrids date back to the 1920s, when hoteliers created them to skirt Prohibition bans on bars, the modern version may have its roots in the 1980s, with the redevelopment of the Hotel Taft on Seventh Avenue and West 51st Street in Midtown.
有些历史学家称，酒店式公寓的历史可以追溯到20世纪20年代，当时的酒店从业者为了绕过酒吧禁令，开发了这种经营模式。不过，现代的酒店式公寓或许是起源于20世纪80年代，以中城的第七大道和西51街处的Hotel Taft再开发项目为标志。
Recognizing that its rooms were small, lacked desirable views and had minimal kitchens, the Taft’s developers decided to sell them to investors who could in turn market them as corporate rentals, said Suzanne Miller, who served as the project’s sales director and is a resident.
当时，Taft的开发商意识到其酒店的客房较小，房间景观很不理想，厨房更是小得可怜。于是他们决定将酒店卖给投资人，这样一来，那些投资人就可将其包装为面向企业职工的出租公寓，苏珊·米勒(Suzanne Miller)说。米勒是此项目的销售总监，也是一位住户。
Called Executive Plaza, the complex, which has 445 units, is today used mostly for the same purpose, said Ms. Miller, who is also president of Empire State Properties, a brokerage firm specializing in the rentals of furnished condos, which rent for 25 percent more than unfurnished versions.
该建筑综合体称为Executive Plaza，共有445个住宅单元。直到如今，其用途几乎也没变过，米勒说。米勒还是中介公司Empire State Properties的总裁，专门经营精装共管公寓的出租业务。精装房的租金比非精装房要高25%。 
Empire, which collects a monthly fee from owners, also plays landlord. “We make sure the lights come on and Internet works and the fridge is cleaned, and there’s extra blankets and two sets of sheets,” Ms. Miller said.
Empire公司每月从公寓所有者处收取佣金，同时扮演房东的角色。“我们要确保灯是亮的，网络是好的，冰箱是干净的，卧室里有备用的毯子和两套床单。”米勒说。
As with Empire State, Oakwood, another furnished housing provider, offers units that are tucked inside conventional buildings, most of them rentals. Having purchased Marriott’s ExecuStay properties in 2012, the company today has 670 units in Manhattan, a company spokeswoman said. Its newest property, the 43-unit Nash on East 39th Street, opened last September.
与Empire State公司相比，另一家精装住房提供商Oakwood所经营的住宅单元，则是位于传统住宅楼内，其中大多数是出租屋。Oakwood的一名女发言人表示，公司于2012年收购了万豪的ExecuStay（万豪旗下的短租精装公寓——译注），如今在曼哈顿地区拥有670个住宅单元。其最新楼盘是位于东39街的The Nash大厦，共包含43个住宅单元，已于去年9月开放。
Studios start at $150 a night, the spokeswoman added, and the average tenant stays for about two months.
Oakwood的女发言人补充说，单间公寓(studio)的起价是每晚150美元（约合人民币930元），房客的平均入住时间在两个月左右。
Eager to capitalize on the shifting housing demographics is Silverstein Properties. Its Silver Towers rental complex on West 42nd Street had 106 extended-stay units when it opened in 2009; the company recently added 100 more, dipping into the normal rental pool to do so.
而Silverstein Properties公司，正急于抓住住房人群转变所带来的商机。该公司的Silver Towers是一处出租型综合楼，位于西42街，2009年开放时有106套长居房公寓，最近又新增了100个曾作为常规出租屋的单位。
Besides having a separate entrance, tenants can take advantage of a round-the-clock concierge staff that can procure TV channels from the tenants’ native countries, said Tal Kerret, Silverstein’s chief investment officer.
那些租房客不仅有单独的大门，还享受全天候公寓管理服务的待遇，服务员能为房客购买他们本国的电视频道，Silverstein的首席投资官塔尔·克尔特(Tal Kerret)说。
Along with Fisher Brothers, Capstone Equities, the Migdal Group and Arkin Holdings, Silverstein is creating an extended-stay property at the historic Beekman Tower Hotel. The building, at East 49th Street and First Avenue, by the United Nations, cost $82 million; the development team is pouring $25 million more into its interiors, including a business center, Mr. Kerret said.
Silverstein正携手地产公司Fisher Brothers、地产私募公司Capstone Equities、保险与贷款公司Migdal Group和制药与生命科学公司Arkin Holdings，在历史建筑比克曼大厦酒店(Beekman Tower Hotel)内共同开发长居房房产。这栋建筑位于东49街和第一大道交汇处，毗邻联合国，耗资8200万美元（约合人民币5亿元）；开发团队又投入了2500万美元（约合人民币1.6亿元）资金用于内部装潢，包括新建一处商业中心，克尔特说。
In February, 40 of the Beekman’s apartments, from studios to two-bedrooms, opened at prices that start at $199 a day; the balance of the units, or 140, are to be ready in May, said Mr. Kerret, who added that other buildings were planned.
今年2月，比克曼大厦酒店的40套公寓正式开盘——包括单间公寓和两居室户型，起价在每天199美元（约合人民币1234元）。克尔特说，其余的140个住宅单元将在5月开盘，他还补充说，公司正在规划其它楼盘。
“With a hotel, you go into a lobby every day, and you see new people going in and out,” he said. “With us, you feel that you are part of a community.”
“在酒店里，你每天走进大堂，会看到进进出出的都是新面孔，”他说，“而在我们这里，你会感觉自己归属于一个社区。”