PARIS — A to-do list for a South Korean tourist visiting Paris:
巴黎——以下是一份给韩国游客的巴黎旅游行程：
Eiffel Tower? Check.
埃菲尔铁塔？有。
The Louvre? Check.
卢浮宫？有。
Pharmacie Monge? Check.
蒙格药妆店(Pharmacie Monge)？有。
That’s right. Along with the city’s famous monuments and museums, an ordinary pharmacy in the Fifth Arrondissement, marked with the traditional green neon cross, has become a big attraction for travelers from South Korea.
没错，和这座城市里其他闻名世界的名胜古迹和博物馆一样，这间普通的药妆店已经成为了韩国游客在巴黎旅游的必去地。它位于巴黎第五区，标志是一枚传统荧光绿色的十字。
They crowded the store’s aisles one recent morning as they often do, filling baskets with piles of face creams, skin lotions and lip balms, with smartphones at the ready to look up items online, and suitcases in tow to carry them all home.
最近的一个早上，游客们像往常一样，挤满了店内的过道，购物篮里摆放着层层叠叠的面霜，乳液和唇膏，手里拿着智能手机以备随时上网查询商品信息，随身带着旅行箱，方便把大量的商品带回家。
“We are spontaneously put in Korean guidebooks!” said Alexandre Freyburger, the owner.
“我们自然而然地就被放进韩国游客的旅游指南里去了！”蒙格药妆店的店主亚历山大·弗莱伯格(Alexandre Freyburger)说。
The pharmacy has a dozen Korean-speaking employees to serve the tourists, he said, and some of its fliers and sales-floor video displays are in Korean.
他还表示，为了满足游客们的购物需求，店里有不少会说韩语的店员，不仅如此，一些促销传单和店内播放的视频也是韩语的。
Pharmacie Monge is not the only pharmacy in Paris to attract foreign shoppers with low duty-free prices, a large selection and a multilingual staff. Citypharma on Rue du Four is often packed with tourists, as are some of the pharmacies around famous department stores like the Galeries Lafayette.
低廉的免税价格、种类丰富的商品和会说多种语言的店员，蒙格并不是巴黎唯一一家以此吸引外国游客的药妆店。位于第四街的城市药妆店(Citypharma)里也经常挤满了游客，在一些如知名商场，老佛爷百货公司(Galeries Lafayette)附近的药妆店里也是同样的景象。
Nor are South Koreans the only foreign customers of Pharmacie Monge. It draws visitors from China and other East Asian countries and from South America as well.
蒙格药妆店不仅仅吸引了韩国的消费者，也有来自中国和其他东亚国家，以及南美的游客。
But 70 percent of the foreigners who come in are Korean, Mr. Freyburger said, and he chalked it up to a single stroke of good fortune: A South Korean journalist living in Paris happened to give the pharmacy a positive mention in a blog post in 2007.
但70%的外国消费者都是韩国人，弗莱伯格说，他认为这全是因为交了一点好运：2007年，一位旅居巴黎的韩国记者在其个人博客上曾提到蒙格药妆店，并给予了正面的评价。
Mr. Freyburger noticed that after the post appeared, more Koreans were stopping in, so he started hiring Korean-speaking workers like Jessy Cornu.
弗莱伯格注意到，自从那篇博文被发布后，有越来越多的韩国游客来光顾他的店，他也因此雇佣了一些会说韩语的店员，比如杰西·克努(Jessy Cornu)。
“After Jessy arrived — a Frenchman who spoke flawless Korean — it amplified things through word of mouth in a way that was huge,” Mr. Freyburger said.
“杰西是个说着一口流利韩语的法国人，自从他来了之后，游客们口耳相传，让我们的名气越来越大了。”弗莱伯格说。
It also helps that many South Koreans, men and women alike, are big users of cosmetics and skin care products, and that popular French brands like Caudalie, Avène and Nuxe tend to cost much more in Asia. So tourists stock up for themselves and for gifts for relatives.
这同时也帮助了韩国消费者。无论男女，韩国消费者都是护肤品和化妆品的大用户群。然而一些颇受欢迎的法国品牌，比如欧缇丽(Caudelie)，雅漾(Avène)，欧树(Nuxe)的产品在亚洲售卖的价格往往比在当地的价格要贵很多，所以游客们经常大批量采购，储备自用或者赠送给亲友。