QUNU, South Africa — They gathered in the rolling green hills of the Eastern Cape on Sunday to return a son to his native soil: princes and presidents, chiefs and priests, celebrities and grandmothers, comrades and cellmates, here to bury Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela.
南非库努村——周日，人们聚集在东开普省绵延的绿色山峦之中，把这片土地的一个孩子送回这里。君主与总统、酋长与牧师、社会名流和平民老妪、伙伴和狱友都来到库努村，送别纳尔逊·罗利赫拉赫拉·曼德拉(Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela)。
“Whilst your long walk to freedom has ended in the physical sense, our own journey continues,” President Jacob G. Zuma of South Africa declared in a eulogy for Mr. Mandela, a global emblem of struggle and reconciliation, at a state funeral in this far-flung village. “As you take your final steps, South Africa will continue to rise.”
南非在这个偏远的村落为曼德拉举行国葬，在献给这位世界斗争与和解的象征性人物的悼词中，南非总统雅各布·G·祖马(Jacob G. Zuma)说，“在通往自由的漫长道路上，您的身躯已经止步，而我们的旅程仍在继续。在您走完最后一程之际，南非仍会继续崛起。”
The ceremony began in a cavernous dome, containing thousands, with choirs and television cameras, prayers and memories.
葬礼在一个容纳了数千人的巨大礼堂拉开帷幕，里面有唱诗班，也有电视摄像机，有祷告，也有回忆。
The funeral — the final parting after a series of celebrations and memorials that had consumed the land since Mr. Mandela died on Dec. 5 after months of illness and decline — left his country poised on the cusp of a post-Mandela era that seems certain to test the durability of his legacy.
在经受了几个月的病痛和健康恶化后，曼德拉于12月5日去世。在这次葬礼之前，这片土地上处处都在举行悼念和纪念活动，这一次是对曼德拉的最后告别。葬礼让南非走进了一个后曼德拉时代，而这个时代似乎必将考验曼德拉的影响力能否持续。
Mr. Mandela’s state funeral burial knitted together the many strands of his life. In addition to the full pomp of state ceremonies, complete with soldiers in lock step, a 21-gun salute and jet fighters in formation, the service included Christian prayers — Mr. Mandela was a lifelong Methodist — and traditions and rituals of the AbaThembu community into which he was born.
曼德拉的国葬把他生活的诸多方面融合在了一起。葬礼除了规模庞大的国家仪式，还有迈着整齐步伐的士兵、21响的鸣枪、排列成队的喷气式战斗机，以及基督教祷告——曼德拉终身都是卫理公会派教徒——还有他出生的泰姆布(AbaThembu)部落的传统和仪式。
Indeed, long before he became a freedom fighter, a fugitive, the world’s most famous political prisoner and then the embodiment of forgiveness and reconciliation, Nelson Mandela was a boy of the Thembu royal family.
的确，在他成为自由斗士、逃亡者、世界最著名的政治犯，以及后来宽容与和解的象征性人物以前，纳尔逊·曼德拉只是泰姆布族王室的一个男孩。
His attachment to Qunu, where he had spent most of his childhood, was so deep that he used to tell his daughter Makaziwe, the eldest of his surviving children, that “if I am not buried there, my bones will shake,” she said in an interview this year.
曼德拉在库努村度过了自己的大部分童年时光，他对这里的感情很深，他甚至曾告诉女儿玛卡兹维（Makaziwe，他在世的孩子中最年长的一个），“如果不埋在这里，我的骸骨将会颤抖。”玛卡兹维在今年的一次采访中讲述道。
Three of his children are buried here: A daughter, also named Makaziwe, who died at 9 months; his eldest son, Thembi, who died in a car crash in 1969, while Mr. Mandela was imprisoned on Robben Island; and his son Makgatho, who died of complications from AIDS in 2005.
他有三个孩子也被埋葬在这里：一个同样名为玛卡兹维，在9个月大时夭折的女儿；他最年长的儿子、在1969年的一次车祸中丧生的泰姆比(Thembi)，当时曼德拉还被关在罗本岛(Robben Island)上；还有于2005年死于艾滋病的儿子马克贾托(Makgatho)。
Though less visible than the military honors and Christian hymns that accompanied the funeral, Thembu rituals were a vital part of the proceedings. When Mr. Mandela’s body arrived at his home, the chief and the king of the AbaThembu kingdom, a Methodist priest and his family were there to welcome him with prayer and song. On Saturday night, Mr. Mandela’s body lay in his bedroom, said Bantu Holomisa, a family friend and a political leader.
虽然与葬礼中的军事礼仪和基督教圣歌相比，泰姆布的仪式并不那么显眼，但它却是整个过程的重要部分。当曼德拉的遗体被送回他家时，酋长、泰姆布王国的国王、一个卫理公会派牧师和曼德拉的家人都在那里用祷文和歌曲迎接他。曼德拉家族的朋友、政治领导人班图·霍洛米萨(Bantu Holomisa)说，周六晚上，曼德拉的遗体就躺在他的卧室里。
Bringing a body home before burial is an important part of the tradition here. The family and elders need “to talk to the body, to say: ‘You’re not going to be with us anymore. We’re going to take you to your last resting place,’ ” said an elder member of the Mandela family who asked that her name be withheld because she did not want to be seen as going against the family’s wishes.
下葬前把遗体送回家是这里的一项重要传统。曼德拉家族的一位长辈说，家人和长者必须“和遗体说话，告诉逝者：‘你不再和我们在一起了。我们会把你送往最终的安息之地’”。这位长辈要求匿名，因为她不想被人认为在违背家族意愿行事。
It was also important that the body spend time in the house, she added, “to connect with the spirits in the house.”
遗体要在家里放一段时间这一点也很重要，她补充说，“是为了和家里的神灵联系。”
Funerals here are not simply a time to celebrate a person’s life; they are a forum for recounting one’s story, whatever path he or she may have followed. Speakers are called from all parts of the person’s life. That tradition was on vivid display at Mr. Mandela’s state funeral.
在这里，不管他或她走过什么样的道路，葬礼不仅是赞颂一个人的生平，也是追忆逝者生前故事的集会。逝者各个生活阶段的相关人会被请来发言致辞。在曼德拉的国葬现场，这一传统得到了生动的展现。
Ahmed Kathrada, a fellow defendant in the treason trial that sent Mr. Mandela to prison for 27 years, said in an emotional address that Mr. Mandela had united a divided nation.
艾哈迈德·卡特拉达(Ahmed Kathrada)在令人动容的发言中称，曼德拉让一个四分五裂的国家团结在了一起。在那次让曼德拉获刑27年的叛国罪审判中，卡特拉达也是被告之一。
“Today, mingled with the grief is the enormous pride that one of our own has during your life, and now in your death, united the people of South Africa and the entire world on a scale never experienced before in history,” Mr. Kathrada said.
“今天，我除了悲痛，也无比自豪，身为我们的一员，你用自己的一生和现在的离世，把南非人民和全世界前所未有地团结在了一起，” 卡特拉达说。
Joyce Banda, the president of Malawi, gave a plain-spoken and heartfelt tribute to Mr. Mandela as an exemplar for African leaders.
马拉维总统乔伊丝·班达(Joyce Banda)也坦率、由衷地表达了对曼德拉的称赞，称其是非洲领导人的楷模。
“I learned leadership is about loving the people you serve and the people you serve falling in love with you,” Ms. Banda said, recalling what she had gleaned from meeting Mr. Mandela. “It is about serving the people with selflessness, with sacrifice and with the need to put the common good ahead of personal interests.”
“我懂得了领导国家就是爱你为之服务的人，那么你为之服务的人也会爱上你，”班达在回忆同曼德拉见面的收获时说，“就是用无私、奉献去服务人民，将公共利益置于个人利益之上。”
About 5,000 people attended the state funeral, and millions more watched it on television.
大约5000人出席了曼德拉的国葬，数百万人观看了电视转播。
In Mabeleni, a village just up the road from Qunu, Nokwanele Sapepa and four generations of her family gathered to say their final farewell to Mr. Mandela.
从库努村顺着公路一直走，就到了马比利尼(Mabeleni)村。在这里，诺克万尼莉·萨佩帕(Nokwanele Sapepa)和她家四代人聚在一起，和曼德拉进行最后的告别。
“Madiba is gone,” Ms. Sapepa said, using Mr. Mandela’s clan name. “We will never see another one like him.”
“马迪巴(Madiba)走了，”萨佩帕说，“我们再也看不到他这样的人了。”她用的是曼德拉的族名。
At the graveside, Monwabisi Jamangile, the chaplain general of the South African military, gave the final public word.
在墓地边上，南非军方的总牧师蒙瓦比斯·贾曼吉尔(Monwabisi Jamangile)做了最后的发言。
“Now you have achieved ultimate freedom in the bosom of your maker,” General Jamangile declared over the coffin as it sat atop the grave.
在灵柩即将入土时，贾曼吉尔将军说，“现在，你在造物主的怀抱里得到了最终的自由。”
A 21-gun salute rang out.
21响鸣枪响彻大地。
Jets roared overhead in formation.
喷气式飞机在头顶列队飞过。
The Last Post bugle call echoed across the rolling green hills.
葬礼号在悠悠青山间回响。
And Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela’s body was returned to the earth.
纳尔逊·罗利赫拉赫拉·曼德拉的遗体被送回了大地。