TORQUAY, England — It’s that time of year again. Every July and August, an army of teenagers, several hundred thousand strong, marches, flies, sails, drives and rides trains across Europe toward Britain. The invasion is peaceful, and meets no resistance. In fact, the British welcome it.
英格兰托基——又到了每年的这个时候。每到七八月份，数十万青少年从欧洲各地步行、乘飞机、坐船、开车或搭火车来到不列颠。人潮和平地涌入，也不会面临任何的阻力。实际上，英国人欢迎他们。
In Oxford, Cambridge and Exeter, youngsters from abroad fill university dormitories and housing vacated by students. In seaside towns like Torquay, in Devon, or Bournemouth, in Dorset, elderly English retirees mingle on the beachside walk with bubbly Spanish youngsters, sharing bad weather and indifferent food. If you’re middle-aged, you’re in the wrong place.
在牛津、剑桥和埃克塞特，其他国家的年轻人占据了大学寝室，以及学生们空出的房屋。在德文郡的托基和多塞特郡的伯恩茅斯，英国的退休老年人在海边散步，身旁是活泼的西班牙年轻人。他们共同忍受糟糕的天气和难以下咽的食物。如果你是中年人，那就来错地方了。
Some come to work, though most come to study. Teaching English and hosting foreign students is a sustainable industry that brings in $1.2 billion every summer and injects tourism-fueled life into parts of the country that badly need it.
有些人来英国工作，但大多数人过来学习。教英语和招待外国学生成为了一种可持续产业，每年夏季带来12亿美元（约合74亿元人民币）的收入，而且还会拉动旅游业的发展，给英国的部分地区注入它们亟需的活力。
But it also shapes the students, and not just because they learn English. These young people, largely from educated middle-class families, will go home and eventually fill the professional ranks of the countries’ economies. But they will retain a connection to Britain, and through it to the rest of the European Union. If you want to know what holds the Continent together, this is it, to a surprising extent.
这也塑造了学生的人生，不仅仅是在英语方面。这些年轻人大多来自受过良好教育的中产阶级家庭。他们回到国内，最终将投身各行各业，发展经济。但他们将保持与英国的纽带，并通过它与欧盟其他国家建立联系。在极大程度上，这就是让欧洲大陆凝聚在一起的东西。
These cheery young invaders have an official reason for being in England: to improve their English. And they do, a little, though not always because of their classes: The only way a 17-year-old Italian boy can talk to a 16-year-old Swedish girl is by smiling, gesturing and trying out his English.
这些兴高采烈的年轻人有正式的理由待在英国：提高英语水平。他们确实稍有进步，但并不一定是因为上课才获得提高：17岁的意大利男孩要想跟16岁的瑞典姑娘交流，只能通过微笑、打手势，还有从口中努力蹦出英语。
If motivation drives learning, the Italian is on a roll. That girl from Malmo is the unspoken reason he has come all the way from Milan: she, and of course a first taste of freedom. The “vacanza-studio” — called a “study-vacation” in English, but in Italian the vacation bit comes first — is the one time Italian families let their children off the leash.
有了学习动力后，这名意大利小伙子一往无前。来自马尔摩的女孩是他从米兰远道而来的秘密理由：她，当然还有初尝自由的滋味。在游学(vacanza-studio)期间，意大利家庭才会放松对孩子的看管。“游学”在英语里称为“研学旅行”(study-vacation)，但在意大利语中，排在前面的是旅游。
Students stay in England for an average of three weeks, and linguistic starting points vary. According to EF/Education First — founded in Sweden in 1965 and one of the largest companies that facilitates such transnational educational migrations — beginning English proficiency is high among teenagers in the Nordic countries, Estonia and the Netherlands; good in Germany, Poland, Switzerland and Belgium; average in Spain, Slovakia and the Czech Republic; and below average in France and Italy.
学生们平均在英国待三周，语言水平起点存在差异。跟据英孚教育(EF/Education First)的统计，北欧国家、爱沙尼亚和荷兰青少年的英语起步水平为优秀，德国、波兰、瑞士和比利时为良好，西班牙、斯洛伐克及捷克属于一般，而法国和意大利低于平均水平。1965年，英孚教育在瑞典创立。公司为此类跨国教育活动提供便利，规模在行业内名列前茅。
It all started back in the early ’70s. I was one of the enthusiastic pioneers, the first time in Eastbourne, in windy Sussex, and then in Edinburgh, in rainy Scotland, and finally in majestic London. Each year from 1972 to 1974, I journeyed to Britain to listen to Alice Cooper songs in cavernous discos with French names (La Poubelle — The Trash Can); to go to concerts at the Rainbow Theater, where a sassy David Bowie strutted his stuff in the guise of Ziggy Stardust; and to dodge heavy-booted skinheads who didn’t appreciate our attempts to socialize with their female friends.
这一切都始于70年代早期。我算是一个狂热的先驱，我先到了多风的萨塞克斯郡的伊斯特本，然后去了多雨的苏格兰的爱丁堡，最后是雄伟的伦敦。从1972年到1974年，我每年都会前往英国，去有着法文名字的La Poubelle（垃圾桶）迪斯科舞厅听艾利斯·库珀(Alice Cooper)的歌曲；去彩虹俱乐部(Rainbow Theater)听音乐会，看别致靓丽的大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)化身Ziggy Stardust（1972年鲍伊通过专辑The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust中为自己塑造的外星人形象——译注）卖力表演；躲避脚穿厚重皮靴的光头仔，他们不太情愿看到我们与他们的女性朋友友好交流。
In a word, Britain was heaven. We didn’t care if our English hosts in their semidetached homes had windowless bathrooms and viewed bidets as continental perversions. We didn’t mind if they ate as much for breakfast as we did for dinner, had dinner just after lunch (5 p.m.?!) and ate supper when it was time for bed. We enjoyed meeting other teenagers like us for the first time. We discovered Europe in the least European of countries — Britain. And we loved it.
总而言之，英国是天堂。我们不在乎英国房东的双拼别墅的浴室没有窗户，也不在乎他们认为浴盆是欧洲大陆的奇怪特色。我们不在乎那里的早餐是否要吃得和我们的正餐一样多，然后在刚吃完午饭后吃正餐（下午5点？！），再到该上床睡觉的时候吃晚餐。我们享受首次与和我们相似的青少年见面。我们在最不欧洲的国家——英国——发现了欧洲。而且我们爱上了它。