I hoisted myself up out of the passenger seat of our Toyota Prius, pressed my forehead against the window glass and yowled. My husband, Bryan, and I were on the way to the hospital to have our second baby, inching along Beverly Boulevard in rush hour traffic in Los Angeles. As he was extolling the virtues of a taqueria we were passing, I was seized by the urge to push. I couldn’t resist. I felt a big whoosh — then a strange absence of pain.
我在丰田普锐斯的副驾上支起身子，把额头紧压在窗玻璃上号叫起来。我和丈夫布莱恩(Bryan)正在赶往医院的路上，我们的第二个孩子就快降生了。在洛杉矶交通拥堵的高峰时段，我们在贝弗利大道上缓慢移动。正当他夸赞我们刚刚经过的一家墨西哥快餐店时，我感觉到一股向外推的冲动。无法抗拒。体内有什么东西猛地一动——然后痛苦奇异地消失了。
I looked down and saw something shaped like a watermelon bulging from the left thigh leg of my maternity jeans. I opened up the waistband. Oh my God. There was my daughter Jemma, curled up and covered in goo.
我低头一看，只见我的孕妇牛仔裤左腿大腿处隆起一个西瓜形状的东西。我解开腰带。哦，上帝呀。那是我的女儿杰玛，她蜷成一团，全身都是黏糊糊的东西。
You don’t want to have a baby in a car. It’s for all the reasons you think — the pain, the worry, the mess.
出于能想到的所有原因——痛苦，担忧，脏乱——没人希望在车里生孩子。
But the biggest problem, it turned out, was one we would never have foreseen: getting a birth certificate for our baby.
但我们后来发现，我们还没有预料到最大的问题：怎样为婴儿获得出生证明。
I’ve always been a by-the-books kind of person. I floss every day; I have missed only two credit card payments in my life. My first daughter, Stella, was squarely among the 98.5 percent of births in the United States that take place in a hospital. I thought I’d be the last person giving birth in a car, the location of fewer than eight of every 10,000 births in this country.
我一直是那种循规蹈矩的人。我每天都用牙线；我一生中只误过两次信用卡还款。我的大女儿斯特拉(Stella)和美国98.5％的婴儿一样出生在医院。我以为自己绝不会在车上生孩子，在这个国家，每万名新生婴儿当中只有不到八人是在车上出生的。
On the day I gave birth, May 25 of last year, I was 39 weeks and three days pregnant. I had seen my OB-GYN in the morning, and she told me I was only one centimeter dilated. I was one centimeter dilated two weeks before my first child’s birth, so figured I had a couple weeks to go.
去年5月25日我生孩子那天，孕期是39周零3天。那天上午，我见了产科医生，她对我说，我的宫口只开了1厘米。我生头胎前两周，宫口就开了1厘米，所以她估计，可能还要等一两周孩子才会出生。
My doctor warned me, of course, that second labors tend to go faster. Still, nobody expected me to go into labor as fast as I did. The contractions started to turn painful around 3 that afternoon; just before 6 that evening, I climbed into the narrow front passenger seat of our car as my husband took the wheel; by 6:25, Jemma was in my pants.
当然，医生警告我，二胎往往来得更快。不过，没人想到我会那么快。当天下午3点左右，宫缩开始变得很疼，傍晚6点前，我爬进我家汽车狭窄的副驾驶座上，丈夫发动汽车， 6点25分，杰玛掉进了我的裤子里。
She didn’t make a sound when I pulled her out. I couldn’t think of anything else to do but put her over my shoulder and pat her back. Please cry! Thank God she made a sweet little mew. I tortured myself thinking about what could have gone wrong.
我把她拉出来时，她没有发出声音。我想不到别的办法，只能让她趴在我肩上，拍她的背。求求你，哭吧！幸好她轻轻发出了甜蜜的哭声。我拼命回想哪里出了问题。
My husband had the presence of mind to call 9-1-1 and the firefighters and ambulance arrived within two minutes. After suggesting I might want to pull my pants up, a firefighter clamped the cord. My husband cut it while he was standing on the curb.
丈夫想起打911，消防员和救护车不到2分钟就赶到了。一名消防员建议我可能应该把裤子提上，然后他用钳子夹紧脐带。我丈夫站在马路边上切断了脐带。
The ambulance took Jemma and me to the closest hospital, Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. There were thankfully no medical issues with Jemma’s birth — the biggest complication was actually clerical.
消防车把我和杰玛送到了最近的医院好莱坞长老会医疗中心(Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center)。幸好，杰玛的出生没有任何医疗问题，最大的麻烦实际上在文书方面。
A perfectly professional hospital official visited me in the recovery room and passed along a packet: I was going to have to visit the county public health department on my own to register Jemma’s birth. Because she wasn’t born on the premises, Hollywood Presbyterian said it could not start my birth certificate; they couldn’t verify that I had actually given birth to Jemma. (The hospital adheres to Los Angeles County’s guidelines on out-of-hospital births, a spokeswoman later explained.)
一位非常职业的医院官员来康复室看我，递给我一个文件包：我必须自己去县公共卫生局登记杰玛的出生。因为她不是在好莱坞长老会医疗中心的辖地出生的，所以院方表示，它不能开具出生证明，他们不能证实杰玛是我生的（一名发言人后来解释称，医院是按照洛杉矶县非院内生产的指导方针去做的）。
If I had given birth in the hospital’s parking lot — as a woman a few months before had done — it would’ve been a different story, the official told me ruefully.
那名官员沮丧地对我说，如果孩子是在医院停车场生的——几个月前，有一名妇女就是在那儿生了孩子——那就是另一回事了。
The California state health and safety code holds hospitals responsible for registering births at their facilities. Officially, the state says that if a physician or midwife does not attend the birth, the parents are responsible for registering their babies. But there is a modicum of discretion for hospitals in interpreting the law.
加利福尼亚州卫生安全法规规定，医院负责登记在自己设施内出生的孩子。该州官方表示，如果没有医生或助产士参与分娩过程，那么就由父母负责给孩子登记。不过，医院在阐释这项法规方面有少量自由裁量权。
Even though I delivered the placenta at Hollywood Presbyterian and I was taken there by the people who assisted with the cutting of the cord, it is within the rights of a hospital to choose not to evaluate the nature of the evidence and send someone like me on to county public health to complete the paperwork, said Dr. Diana Ramos, director of reproductive health for Los Angeles County’s public health department.
洛杉矶县公共卫生部生育卫生主任黛安娜·拉莫斯(Diana Ramos)表示，尽管我把胎盘交给了好莱坞长老会医疗中心，我是被协助切段脐带的人送到那里的，但医院有权选择不评估那些情况的真实性，让我这种处境的人去县公共卫生局完成文书登记。
“As obvious as it may seem, it’s up to the hospital to make the final call,” Ramos said. “They’re pushing it off to the legal realm.”
“虽然事情看起来好像很明显，但最终决定权在医院，”拉莫斯说。“他们把它推给了法律范畴。”
I wish I had had Jemma in the car in Chicago or New York. In Illinois, the state department of public health actually asks hospitals to assist parents by completing the birth record when babies arrive the way Jemma did. And in New York City, most hospitals will report a birth of this kind.
我希望自己是在芝加哥或纽约的车上生下杰玛的。在伊利诺伊州，如果婴儿是像杰玛那样出生的话，州公共卫生部实际上要求医院协助父母完成出生记录。在纽约市，大部分医院也会报告此类出生。
A birth certificate, I learned, is probably the single most important document an American can possess. As Dr. Ramos pointed out to me, it’s the gateway to citizenship, health insurance and school, so hospitals may be reluctant to put their necks on the line to confer such benefits.
我了解到，出生证明很可能是美国人能获得的最重要的文件。正如拉莫斯指出的，它是公民身分、医疗保险和入学的通行证，所以医院可能不想冒险授予这些权利。
That left Jemma, Bryan and me to prove we weren’t frauds. We had to collect five pieces of proof to bring to the county — that Bryan and I were who we said we were, that I was pregnant just before I got to the hospital, that Jemma was born alive, that the birth occurred in Los Angeles County, and that I had a witness. Until we could get that certificate, Jemma was nameless and stateless, invisible in the eyes of the government.
这样，就只能由我、杰玛和布莱恩证明我们不是骗子。我们必须收集五项证据，交到县里——我和布莱恩的身分属实；我去医院前处于怀孕状态；杰玛是活着出生的；杰玛是在洛杉矶县出生的；我有证人。在我们获得出生证明之前，杰玛没有名字，没有国籍，在政府眼里是不存在的。
It took 35 days to get an appointment at the public health department. During that time, my husband and I zipped back and forth to doctors’ offices, sometimes with a wailing infant, collecting our evidence. We were grateful to spend only a few hours in the Kafka-esque marbled hall of the county public health department — where the line for “birth” is right next to the line for “death” — before walking out with the birth certificate we needed.
我们花了35天才获得公共卫生部的预约。在那段时间里，我和丈夫在医生办公室来回穿梭，收集证据，有时还得带着一个哭啼的婴儿。值得庆幸的是，我们在洛杉矶县公共卫生部的卡夫卡式大理石大厅里只呆了几个小时，就带着我们需要的出生证明离开了——在那里，登记“出生”的队伍就在登记“死亡”的队伍旁边。
I felt a second wave of relief almost as intense as that first one in the car. A month later, I could finally apply for her Social Security number, and after that, finish the health insurance paperwork that was in limbo because I didn’t have the right documents. I wrapped up the final medical bill in early May, just before her first birthday.
我再次感到释怀，几乎和上次在车里生下孩子那样强烈地释怀。一个月后，我终于可以申请她的社保号码，随后完成了医疗保险文件，之前因为证书不足而无法完成。5月初，在她第一个生日之前，我终于弄好了最后一批医疗账单。
What a curious detour Jemma’s birth took us on, through obscure thickets of paperwork and existential worry. I hadn’t paid attention to the surroundings when I gave birth to Jemma at the intersection of Beverly Boulevard and Serrano Avenue so I drove in that same Prius back recently to see where it all began. My car showed few signs of the rush of blood and fluid from that day — because we thought my water might break on the way to the hospital, Bryan had laid down a few Chux pads that thankfully bore the brunt of the damage. I stopped in front of the tidy bank where he had cut the cord and took in the dusty tableau, which included a Salvadoran restaurant and a tire shop with signs in Korean and Spanish.
杰玛的出生让我们踏上了奇特的曲折道路，穿过文书工作的复杂丛林，熬过与生存相关的担忧。我在贝弗利大道和塞拉诺大道的交叉口生下杰玛时，并没有留意周围的环境，所以前不久，我开着那辆丰田普锐斯，去看看一切开始的地方。我的车上几乎已经没有那天流下的血和液体的印记——因为当时我们知道，在去医院的路上，我的羊水可能会破，所以布莱恩铺了几个Chux牌垫子，幸好有它们接住了大部分液体。我在那家整洁的银行门前停下车（他当时就是在这里剪断脐带的），望着眼前尘土飞扬的街景，包括一家萨尔瓦多餐厅，还有一个轮胎店，招牌上写着韩语和西班牙语。
Mine was the only car stopped at this corner for the 15 minutes I stayed. Everyone was trying to get where they were going and eventually I had to also. Jemma was at home and, as we know, she isn’t any good at waiting.
只有我的车在那个角落停留了15分钟。每个人都在努力赶往他们要去的地方，最终我也得离开了。杰玛在家呢，我们都知道，她不喜欢等待。