The Hamptons home theater is more than ready for its close-up. Twenty years ago it was a rare indulgence; these days it’s a mandatory amenity, more coveted than wine cellars and a source of exponentially greater entertainment than, say, the ubiquitous home gym or tennis court.
汉普顿地区（Hampton，纽约富裕家庭的热门度假地之一——译注）的家庭影院早就为自己的闪亮登场做好了准备。时光倒退二十年，它还只是代表奢华享受的稀罕物；而如今，它却成为了人们生活中必不可少的娱乐设施。它比酒窖还令人垂涎，所能带来的欢乐，也远甚于那些比比皆是的家庭健身房或家庭网球场。
When the art dealer Larry Gagosian, a patron of many arts, feels like watching a first-run film at his East Hampton estate, all he needs to do is call his longtime projectionist, George Gottschalk, then go downstairs to his $250,000 screening room.
每当艺术经销商、大赞助人拉里·高古轩(Larry Gagosian)想在自己位于东汉普顿(East Hampton)的家里观看电影首映的时候，他只需叫来自己长期聘用的放映师乔治·戈特沙尔克(George Gottschalk)，然后径直走到楼下那间造价25万美元(约合人民币152.3万元)的放映室里就行了。
According to Mr. Gottschalk, whose company, High Tech Digital Technologies, tends the year-round cinematic needs of 15 Hamptons homeowners, Mr. Gagosian’s is not the biggest home theater on the South Fork (that belongs to the Hamptonite with the biggest house, Ira Rennert) but it is “by far the most technically superior screening room out there.” And in a pinch, it accommodates 18 guests in custom leather stadium-style seating.
戈特沙尔克的高科数码技术公司(High Tech Digital Technologies)全年的主要工作，就是为汉普顿地区的15个家庭影院放映电影。据他说，高古轩的家庭影院在南福克(South Fork)还算不上是最大的（最大的那个在美国著名投资家、商人伊拉·雷纳尔特[Ira Rennert]的大房子里），但它“就技术含量而言，却是当地目前为止最顶级的放映室”。那些体育馆风格的真皮定制座椅在必要时能容纳下18名观众。
Last weekend, Mr. Gottschalk and his small crew were hired to provide the projection for more than 30 films in private residences, a typical number for the Hamptons in mid-summer. Mr. Gagosian and several of his closest friends previewed Alexander Payne’s “Nebraska,” a film not yet released to the public.
上周末，戈特沙尔克和他的小团队受雇在私人住宅放映了30多场电影。这个数字在仲夏时节的汉普顿地区，是个有代表性的放映记录。高古轩和几位好友抢先观看了好莱坞著名导演亚历山大·佩恩(Alexander Payne)的新作《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)，当时这部电影尚未对外放映。
“Everybody wants to see first-run movies that haven’t hit the theaters yet,” said Mr. Gottschalk, who installs home screening rooms in addition to manning the projectors at homes that require a professional projectionist. (Most of the smaller home theaters are iPad-compatible and operable by technophiles of any age.) Hamptons builders have gotten the message.
“人人都想最先看到还没在院线上映的电影，”高古轩说。他那间放映室里安装的放映机，只有专业放映师才能驾驭（大多数小型家庭影院是和iPad兼容的，专业要求并不高，任何年龄段的人都很容易操作）。家庭影院的魅力，就连汉普顿地区的建筑商也感受到了。
“These days every spec house on the market has got to have a home theater,” said Christopher Burnside, a Brown Harris Stevens broker who is also a builder of spec homes. “And if it doesn’t, the buyers ask why not, with the implication being the builder cheaped out. Wine cellars are kind of optional, but home theaters aren’t. When you’re building homes that cost north of $10 million and you’re talking about a $150,000 theater on the lower level, why not put them in?”
“如今，市场中的每栋投机房产（spec house，指看好未来行情的开发商在找到买家前，就预先设计、建造的房屋——译注）都要带一个家庭影院。”克里斯多夫·伯恩赛德(Christopher Burnside)说。这位纽约房地产中介公司Brown Harris Stevens的经纪人也在新建投机房产，“要是没有配套的话，买家就会质问你为何不带，言下之意就是开发商不该省这些钱。酒窖这类东西可有可无，但家庭影院的钱是一概不能省的。你已经花了1000多万美元（约合人民币6090万元）来建这些房子，而添置一个影院，按照最低标准只需15万美元（约合人民币91万元）而已，既然如此，何乐而不为呢？”
Mr. Burnside is the listing agent for a $43.5 million Bridgehampton estate that has, in addition to a dozen bedrooms and bathrooms, a bowling alley, a bar, a disco and a 10-seat theater with interactive seats that react to the rumble of the sound system. “It’s a gimmick,” he said, “but it’s like Great Adventure: the kids love it.”
伯恩赛德曾是一栋价值4350万美元（约合人民币2.65亿元）的房产的卖方经纪人，这栋位于布里奇汉普顿(Bridgehampton)的房子除多间卧室及浴室外，还带有保龄球馆、酒吧和舞厅，甚至还有一间带有十张会随音响发出的隆隆声作出反应的座椅的放映室。“就是些哄人开心的玩意儿，”他说，“可它跟大冒险（Great Adventure，建于1974年的私人公园，内置众多游乐设施——译注）那种地方一样，孩子们都喜欢这个。”
Michael Davis, a purveyor of luxury custom homes, builds one spec home each year, and the one he built this year is a $23 million estate on Parsonage Lane in Sagaponack with an ocean view and a top-of-the-line theater that seats 18 and has a 120-inch digital screen, a JVC 3D-capable projector, and Marantz Surround Sound. An Apple iPad 3 operates the theater, surfs the Web and controls the room temperature.
迈克尔·戴维斯(Michael Davis)是一位豪华定制住宅的承办商，每年都会建造一栋投机房产。今年这栋价值2300万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元）的海景房，位于萨加波纳克(Sagaponack)的牧师巷(Parsonage Lane)，内设的顶级影院带18张座椅，配有120英寸的数码显示屏，支持3D播放功能的日本杰伟士(JWC)牌放映机和马兰士(Marantz)牌环绕立体音响。用一部iPad3就能轻松操控整个影院，甚至还能上网、控制室温。
“A home theater, if you do it right, is a self-contained capsule,” Mr. Davis said. “The equipment alone can cost $100,000. But everybody wants a finished lower level with a theater. They’ve become very popular since 2008 because now it’s all about streaming media. And kids seem to gravitate to being subterranean.”
“如果你利用得当，一间小小的家庭影院就会成为一个功能齐全的‘太空舱’，”戴维斯说，“虽然整套设备购置下来只要10万美元（约合人民币60.9万元），但大家都想用更低的价格配置这么一间。从2008年起它就流行起来了，因为这都是关于流媒体（streaming media，通过网络传输的音频、视频或多媒体文件，数据流随时传送、随时播放——译注）的东西，而且孩子们似乎也倾向于这种隐蔽的‘地下’活动。”
Diane Saatchi, of Saunders & Associates, is the listing agent for the Parsonage Lane residence and several others with home theaters, the most splashy a $17.5 million bayfront home in Amagansett; formerly owned by Barry Sonnenfeld, it is being sold by Roy Furman, a Manhattan lawyer and Broadway producer.
Saunders & Associates公司的戴安·萨奇(Diane Saatchi)也是一位卖方经纪人，她主要负责牧师巷和其他几处带有家庭影院的房屋，而其中最引人注目的要数那栋价值1750万美元（约合人民币1.07亿元）、位于阿莫甘西特(Amagansett)的海滨别墅。其前任房主是大导演巴里·索南菲尔德(Barry Sonnenfeld)，后来被卖给了曼哈顿律师、百老汇制片人罗衣·弗曼(Roy Furman)。
According to Ms. Saatchi, parts of Mr. Sonnenfeld’s first “Men in Black” film were edited at the home, which has a capacious theater with a fireplace and an authentic neon exit sign.
据萨奇说，在索南菲尔德执导的《黑衣人》(Men in Black)系列的第一部中，有部分镜头就是在家中剪辑的。在他那间宽敞的影院里，不仅设有壁炉，竟还真的贴着一个霓虹灯的“出口”标志。
The furniture is an eccentric array of sofas, loveseats and ottomans, some upholstered in a plush orange-and-cream Holstein pattern. A snack bar with a professional popcorn maker adjoins the screening room, which requires a projectionist; Mr. Gottschalk provided a $125,000 digital upgrade there last year.
就连里面陈列的家具也别具一格，不仅有多人沙发、双人沙发，还配有悉心装饰过的垫脚软凳，上面印着非常漂亮的橙色和奶油色相间的乳牛图案。放映室与一个配有专业爆米花机的快餐柜相连，里面的放映工作全部由专业放映师负责，戈特沙尔克去年刚为其升级了一套12.5万美元（约合人民币76万元）的数码设备。
In Wainscott, Goose Creek, a mansion on five acres with an oft-rented 110-seat screening room that is one of the granddaddies of the Hamptons home theater scene, is listed at $11.95 million with the Corcoran Group. The seller, Bryan Bantry, a producer of “Kinky Boots,” said the theater’s green interior was inspired by Manhattan’s storied Ziegfeld Theater. “I’ve spent my whole life in screening rooms,” he added. “It was designed with love.”
在南卡罗来纳州鹅溪(Goose Creek)的温斯科特(Wainscott)，有一栋占地五英亩（约合2公顷）的豪华宅邸。在全球极负盛名的房地产经纪公司柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的榜单上，它以1195万美元（约合人民币7281万元）的价格列居高位。宅邸里设有一间配备110个座位的放映室，堪称汉普顿地区家庭影院的祖辈。这栋房产的卖家布莱恩·班特里(Bryan Bantry)就是音乐剧《长靴妖姬》(Kinky Boots)的制片人。他说这间影院的绿色内壁，是受曼哈顿赫赫有名的齐格菲剧院(Ziegfeld Theater)启发设计的。“我把自己的一生都奉献给了放映室，”他补充道，“它是用爱建造成的。”