The brides wore white, temporarily, retrieving ticket No. C685 from a kiosk inside the Manhattan marriage bureau — that great municipal deli of matrimony — and waiting to be served.
在曼哈顿婚姻登记处——就是那家伟大的市政婚姻熟食店——两位新娘穿着暂时还是白色的礼服，到取号机前领到了C685号，正在等待仪式的举行。
They joined the others on a long couch, giggling. They held hands until they were called. They sobbed through a ceremony of some 90 seconds, then kissed passionately until the officiant reminded them that there were people behind them.
她们跟其他人一起坐在长沙发上，咯咯地笑着。她们牵着手，直到工作人员叫到自己的名字。在大约90秒的仪式中，她们潸然泪下，然后激情相吻，直到司仪提醒她们后面还有人在等待。
When it was over, they bounded across Worth Street into a small park, collected several cartons of paint from a tote bag and accosted each other with color, wrestling atop a neatly arranged bed of leaves. A worker with New York City’s parks department, who had spent an hour assembling the pile, grimaced.
仪式结束后，她们蹦蹦跳跳穿过沃斯街进入一个小公园，然后从一只手提袋中拿出几盒颜料，给对方抹上颜色，在一堆精心堆好的树叶上滚来滚去。纽约市公园管理部门的一名工作人员在一旁无奈地咧嘴，那树叶是他花了一小时堆起来的。
“Congrats on marriage and this and that,” the man yelled, “but we’re trying to keep the leaves together.”
“结婚是喜事，恭喜恭喜，”这名男子喊道，“我们只是不希望树叶弄得到处都是。”
Such is life, and love, in Lower Manhattan’s cradle of codified romance — the marriage bureau’s constellation of swoony couples, beaming relatives, mostly well-meaning hucksters and city employees eager to complete the day without major incident.
这就是曼哈顿下城的生活和爱情，这里是法定浪漫的摇篮——聚集着欣喜若狂的夫妻、笑容满面的亲属，大多怀着善意的小贩，以及渴望顺利结束一天工作不出重大事故的市政员工。
Weddings at the Manhattan bureau have increased by nearly 50 percent since 2008, according to the city clerk’s office. The increase has been coaxed by two changes in recent years: the legalization of same-sex marriage and an effort by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2009 to reimagine — and relocate — the bureau to rival Las Vegas as a wedding destination with pizazz.
据市政厅办公室透露，自2008年以来，曼哈顿婚姻登记处的婚礼增加了将近50%。这是由近些年来的两大变化促成的：同性婚姻的合法化，以及市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)2009年提出的计划，将该登记处重新设置为能与拉斯维加斯竞争的充满活力的婚礼举办地。
The couples come from Denver and Delhi; Buenos Aires and Brooklyn Heights. They come in gowns, flip-flops, pre-tied bow ties, straw hats and short shorts.
这些夫妻来自丹佛和德里；布宜诺斯艾利斯和布鲁克林高地。他们的穿着包括礼服、人字拖、简易式领结、草帽和超短裤。
They come to end long engagements or to skip them altogether, to exchange precious family jewels and, in at least one case, 70-calorie Ring Pops.
他们或终结了订婚之后漫长的等待，或直接越过订婚环节，来到这里交换珍贵的家族珠宝，至少在一个婚礼中，双方交换了热量为70卡路里的Ring Pops戒指造型糖果。
All are in it together.
所有人都挤在一起。
“It kind of brings down the tensions,” Vivek Raj Senthivel, 32, one in a cluster of grooms, said semiconvincingly, wiping his forehead with a cloth. “It’s not like we’re doing something unique.”
“这能够缓解紧张情绪，”其中一名新郎——32岁的维韦克·拉伊·森蒂韦尔(Vivek Raj Senthivel)边用一块布擦着额头，边用让人半信半疑的语气说到，“我们也没做什么与众不同的事情。”
Last year, the city performed more than 49,000 ceremonies, nearly half of them in Manhattan. Fridays tend to be the most popular. Mondays, at least, signal new beginnings, or perhaps the end of a whirlwind long weekend for visiting lovebirds.
去年，纽约举行了逾4.9万场仪式，其中将近一半是在曼哈顿。周五往往最受欢迎。周一至少意味着新开始，或者对远道而来的情侣来说，是一场匆忙的长周末的结束。
There are few paeans in literature to the late-summer Wednesday.
夏末的礼拜三？文学作品中很少能读到赞美这个日子的文字。
And yet, on this occasion, 101 pairings were making the midweek leap, paying $25 each for New York’s best approximation of a City Hall service. (The mayoral workplace is a few blocks south, though the wedding bureau does feature a large City Hall rendering as a backdrop for pictures.)
然而此时此刻，101对情侣正使周三的热门度陡增，每对情侣支付25美元即可获得纽约市最接近市政厅水平的仪式。（市长的办公地就在这个婚姻登记处以南几个街区的地方，不过这里是有一幅巨大的市政厅背景片的。）
The cost can swell with a couple’s ambitions. As the doors opened at 8:30 a.m., a photographer, Braulio Cuenca, sought customers, offering himself as the something borrowed, for a fistful of 20s.
费用会随着夫妇的想法升级而不断上涨。上午8点30分开门时，摄影师布劳略·昆卡(Braulio Cuenca)开始寻觅顾客，他的服务是充当“借来的东西”，可以挣到一大把20美元钞票。
A merchant known as Taxi arranged fake bouquets, $30 apiece, on a table. “Flowers here!” he shouted, like a stadium vendor hawking peanuts. “Get your flowers here!”
一个名叫“的士”(Taxi)的商贩将假花束摆在桌上出售，每束30美元。“这里有花！”他喊道，就像是在体育场兜售花生的小贩。“到这儿来买花！”
Inside, commerce continued apace. Amid bronze counters and shimmering marble, a booth known as CityStore displayed mugs, magnets and dutifully gender neutral T-shirts (“Spouse A,” “Spouse B”).
在婚姻登记处里面，生意依然红火。在铜柜台和闪亮大理石的空间里，一个名为CityStore的货摊摆放着马克杯、磁铁和表达性别中立态度的T恤衫（“配偶A”、“配偶B”）。
“It’s really romantic,” Natalie Azzoli, 27, said, lingering beside a his-and-hers rubber duck set priced at $4.75, as a cashier forked a slab of syrup-soaked pancakes from a paper plate.
“真的很浪漫，”27岁的纳塔莉·阿佐利(Natalie Azzoli)边在售价为4.75美元的情侣橡皮鸭旁边徘徊边说，一个收银员正从纸盘子里叉起一片涂着糖浆的薄饼。
“We’re not buying any of this,” Ms. Azzoli’s companion, Sam Sparks, 29, said.
阿佐利的伴侣——29岁的萨姆·斯帕克斯(Sam Sparks)说，“我们不会买这种东西。”
The two had just procured a domestic partnership certificate — for insurance reasons, they said.
他们刚刚拿到同居伴侣关系证书——他们说是出于保险方面的原因。
Ms. Azzoli wore white anyway. “Just casually,” Mr. Sparks said with a smile, pulling her closer.
但阿佐利还是穿了白色。斯帕克斯微笑地说道，“没那么正式，”边说边将她拉近。
A wedding would come soon enough, they suggested. In the interim, the bureau retained a certain charm. Ms. Azzoli teared up while watching another couple sort through paperwork. Mr. Sparks marveled at the partnership fee of $35.
他们表示，很快会举行婚礼。在这个等待期里，登记处是有某种特别的吸引力的。阿佐利只是看着其他情侣在整理文件手续就泪流满面了。而斯帕克斯对35美元的关系登记费感到震惊。
“And it only costs $27 to divorce a domestic partner,” Mr. Sparks said.
“解除同居关系只需要27美元，”斯帕克斯说
Other reviews of the space were less charitable.
其他人对该登记处的评论则没那么宽容。
Of the couch outside the chapel: “Put a cover over it or something,” a groom, Jamal Sandel, 44, said, inspecting his white pants.
对于礼堂外的沙发，44岁的新郎贾迈勒·桑德尔(Jamal Sandel)边检查他的白裤子边说，“总得在上面铺点什么吧。”
Of the paint job overhead: “It doesn’t match,” said Charles Phillips, 34, waiting for a license with Kevin Ragazzo, 26.
对于天花板的颜色，34岁的查尔斯·菲利普斯(Charles Phillips)说，“不搭配。”菲利普斯正在和26岁的凯文·拉加佐(Kevin Ragazzo)等候领取证书。
Of the administrative clacking, in a room suffused with staplers and tape dispensers: “It could be a place for any kind of life event,” Varvara Voetskova, 30, said. “Or death. It’s very cold.”
在布满订书机和胶带座的房间里，各种工具发出咔嗒声。“这里可能发生各种生活事件，”30岁的瓦尔瓦拉·沃特斯克沃(Varvara Voetskova)说。“或者死亡。这里太冷了。”
Ms. Voetskova had arrived with a plan, an antidote to the antiseptic. The paint was hers, to be shared with her new wife, Krystal Morales-Voetskova, 20, in the park outside. So were two bouquets, stowed away for a suspenseless toss to a bridal party of two.
沃特斯克沃已经准备了改善单调气氛的方案。颜料是她的，她将与新婚妻子——20岁的克丽丝特尔·莫拉莱斯-沃特斯克沃(Krystal Morales-Voetskova)到外面的公园分享这些颜料。她还准备了两束花，用来毫无悬念地抛给到场的两位伴娘。
“We make this place romantic,” Ms. Voetskova said.
沃特斯克沃说，“我们让这个地方变得浪漫。”
Around 11:15 a.m., the pair entered the chapel of Angel L. Lopez, an officiant who had performed 86 weddings by the close of business. (A colleague handled another 15 during Mr. Lopez’s lunch break.)
两人在上午11点15分左右进入安杰尔·L·洛佩兹(Angel L. Lopez)的礼堂，这位司仪当天主持了86场婚礼（一名同事在洛佩兹吃午饭时主持了15场婚礼）。
Mr. Lopez stood behind a lectern on what appeared to be a doormat.
洛佩兹站在一个讲台后面，脚下似乎是一块门垫。
Ms. Voetskova, who was raised in Russia, said that had she been told as a child that at age 30 she would marry a woman, she would have cried.
在俄罗斯长大的沃特斯克沃表示，如果有人在小时候告诉她，在30岁的时候她会与一个女人结婚，她可能会大哭。
Mr. Lopez began the ceremony.
洛佩兹开始主持仪式。
“Varvara, do you —”
“瓦尔瓦拉，你是否——”
“Yes,” she said, through tears.
“愿意，”她流着眼泪说道。
He continued anyway.
他没有中断，继续往下说。
The women kissed, then began jumping.
两人相吻，然后开始又蹦又跳。
“Is it O.K. to behave this way?” Ms. Voetskova asked.
“我们这样没问题吧？”沃特斯克沃问道。
“It’s O.K.,” Mr. Lopez said, waving the next group in.
“没问题，”洛佩兹说，挥手示意下一对情侣进来。
The Morales-Voetskova party set off along Worth Street, plucking the caps off the paint cartons and tumbling into the grass.
莫拉莱斯-沃特斯克沃联姻聚会在沃斯街边举行，打开颜料盒的盖子，在草丛中滚来滚去。
Most celebrations were more subdued, if only slightly. Outside the chapel, 2-year-old Shelly Manjarrez wobbled in her white dress before a relative’s ceremony, spinning until she was dizzy. Giovanna Garcia, 5, joined her, her tiara glistening.
但大多数庆祝活动都比较中规中矩，稍显沉默。在礼堂外，两岁的雪莉·曼贾雷兹(Shelly Manjarrez)身着白裙，在亲属的仪式开始前蹒跚而行，不断转圈直到头晕。5岁的吉奥瓦娜·加西亚(Giovanna Garcia)也加入其中，头冠闪闪发光。
Perhaps the day’s most cherished witness was Olivia Taylor, who had been married for more than 55 years until her husband’s recent death. Before her own ceremony, a family friend inquired about Ms. Taylor’s marital creed.
当天最受爱戴的见证人恐怕就是奥利维娅·泰勒(Olivia Taylor)了。她结婚超过55年，丈夫最近刚去世。一名家族朋友在自己的仪式开始前，向泰勒询问婚姻的信条。
“First, you’ve got to love each other,” Ms. Taylor said. “Then you’ve got to respect each other. And if you both go wild, you can’t go wild on the same day at the same time.”
“首先，你们必须相爱，”泰勒说。“然后互相尊重。如果你俩都会失控，不能在同一天同一时间失控。”
Others relied on collective wisdom. LaToya Perez, 35, and Natalie Jackson, 32, arrived with about a dozen guests, each intent on supplying a final word of advice.
其他人则依靠集体智慧。陪35岁的拉托亚·佩雷斯(LaToya Perez)和32岁的娜塔莉·杰克逊(Natalie Jackson)一起来的，有十多名宾客。他们中每个人都热情地想在最后一刻给出建议。
“It’s not going to change.”
“不会有变化的。”
“A whole lot changes.”
“会有很多变化。”
“You can’t make any new friends.”
“你没法再结交新朋友。”
“You’ll want your own space.”
“你会希望有自己的空间。”
“You’re taking advice from a divorced person.”
“你听到的可是一个离了婚的人的建议。”
“It’s not my fault! He was crazy!”
“不是我的错！他是个疯子！”
As the relatives persisted, Ms. Jackson’s stepfather, Andre Cook, delivered a grim reminder: “This place ain’t got a back door, Nat.”
在亲戚的坚持下，杰克逊的继父安德烈·库克(Andre Cook)严肃地提醒说：“到了这儿可就没有退路了，娜特。”
Ms. Perez’s 7-year-old son, Tajari Rock, strummed an invisible guitar while looking at his reflection in a glass case, behind which rested a marriage book opened to a page from 1929.
佩雷斯7岁的儿子塔扎里·罗克(Tajari Rock)一边看着一个玻璃柜里自己的影子，一边做出弹吉他的样子。柜子里面放着一本结婚登记簿。登记簿被翻到了1929年的一页。
“That’s Babe Ruth,” Mr. Lopez said between ceremonies, pointing to entry No. 8666. “George Herman Ruth. That’s his second marriage.”
“那是贝比·鲁斯(Babe Ruth)，”洛佩兹在仪式间歇期间指着第8666条记录说。“乔治·贝比·鲁斯。那是他的第二段婚姻。”
By 4 p.m., the chapel had closed. The Jallots posed in front of the City Hall backdrop. Outside, the flower salesman, Taxi, cleared wayward petals from the sidewalk.
到下午4点，小教堂关门。雅洛一家人以市政厅为背景摆好姿势拍了照。外面，卖花的塔克西斯清理了人行道上散落的花瓣。
Mr. Lopez returned to his desk, plopping down a heap of marriage papers thick enough to raise dust on impact. He arranged the leaflets into a neat stack.
洛佩兹回到自己的桌子前，啪嗒一声放下一堆厚到可以扬起灰尘的结婚文件。他把它们整齐地摆成一叠。
“Today’s work,” he said, holstering his identification card. “Hopefully it’s all love.”
“这是今天的工作，”他一边说一边摘下自己的身份识别卡。“但愿都是出于爱的结合。”