The landscape in Ciril Jazbec’s photographs of the Arctic is impressive, but not nearly as captivating to him as the people whose daily routines have been affected by rising temperatures and tides. “I am interested in the people,” he said. “Climate change is merely in the background.”
西里尔·贾兹贝克(Ciril Jazbec)照片中的北极风光摄人心魄，但对他来说，日常生活因为气温和海平面不断上升而受到影响的人们更有吸引力。“我感兴趣的是人，”他说，“气候变化只不过是一种背景。”
But when it’s underfoot, he pays attention.
但如果它出现在眼前，他也会关注。
His latest project, “Greenland,” made possible with funds from the Royal Photographic Society and The Photographic Angle, took him to a remote settlement of 250 people in northern Greenland known for a rare breed of modern-day subsistence hunters whose numbers are rapidly declining. Higher temperatures mean shorter seal hunting seasons — and thinner ice. Traversing the landscape by dogsled can be difficult, if not deadly.
为了他的最新项目“格陵兰”，贾兹贝克来到了格陵兰岛北部一个偏远的小村落。这个村子仅有250名居民，有着一群这个时代所罕见的以狩猎维系生计的猎人，并以此而闻名。这类猎人的数量正在迅速减少。气温上升意味着海豹捕猎季的缩短和冰层的变薄。乘坐狗拉的雪橇穿越这片土地可能很难，甚至有可能致人丧命。该项目是在皇家摄影学会(Royal Photographic Society)和摄影角度(The Photographic Angle)的资助下才得以实施的。
“This small settlement might be much, much smaller in 10 years,” he said.
“10年后，这个村子可能会比现在小得多，”他说。
Mr. Jazbec avoided exotic, if clichéd, pictures, and focused on scenes that captured emotion. His goal was to document life as it was, particularly in a settlement with a life expectancy so uncertain. A similar motivation had been behind his previous projects. Before completing his master’s in photojournalism and documentary photography at the London College of Communications in 2011, a final project took Mr. Jazbec to the island of Kiribati in the South Pacific. There, he documented how rising sea levels rendered the island virtually uninhabitable, detailing the intersection of everyday life with the changing landscape. Mr. Jazbec, 26, grew up in a countryside village in Slovenia. He is an avid snowboarder and fond of the environment, particularly those in the Arctic, which he believes possess a magical quality in photographs.
贾兹贝克不愿拍摄那些体现异域风情、但可能落入俗套的照片，而是专注于拍摄那些情感流露的场景。他的目的是记录生活的原貌，尤其是在这样一个生死无常的村落。他之前的一些项目也都源于类似的动机。2011年在伦敦传媒学院(London College of Communications)读完新闻摄影和纪实摄影的硕士学位前，为了完成最后的一个项目，他来到了南太平洋的基里巴斯岛。在那里，他记录了海平面上升如何使岛屿不再适合居住，以及在不断变化的环境中，人们日常生活的种种细节。26岁的贾兹贝克成长于斯洛文尼亚的乡村。他热衷于滑雪，热爱大自然，尤其是北极的环境，他认为，照片中的北极散发着魔力。
He could have used some wizardry to get to Greenland. Reaching the settlement took three flights, a helicopter and a four-hour sled ride pulled by Greenlandic dogs who “howl, not bark.”
要是能用魔法抵达格陵兰就好了。他共乘坐了三次航班、一架直升机，以及四个小时的雪橇才抵达了这个村子。拉雪橇的是格陵兰的狗，这些狗“不会汪汪地叫，只会嘶嚎。”
Initially, Mr. Jazbec intended to focus on 10 families, until he met Uunartoq Lovstrom, 70, a tough and amiable man who was proclaimed by members of the settlement as “the Clint Eastwood of Greenland,” and one of the last traditional subsistence hunters remaining. A sense of purity attracted Mr. Jazbec to Mr. Lovstrom, who years earlier turned down an opportunity to be the focus of an American documentary on subsistence hunting because he felt it would take time away from the life he enjoys.
一开始，贾兹贝克打算关注10个家庭，直到他遇见了70岁的乌纳托克·勒夫斯特伦(Uunartoq Lovstrom)。勒夫斯特伦是一个性格坚强的和善男子，村民都称他是“格陵兰的克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)”，他也来自最后一群以打猎为生的传统猎人。勒夫斯特伦身上的这种纯粹感吸引了贾兹贝克。勒夫斯特伦几年前曾拒绝成为一个美国维生狩猎纪录片的主角，因为他觉得这会占去他享受生活的时间。
Mr. Jazbec stayed at Mr. Lovstrom’s home for two weeks, a challenge because he did not speak Greenlandic. He communicated primarily through body language, knowing only the word for “cheers,” which he said “about 50 times a day.”
贾兹贝克在勒夫斯特伦家住了两个星期，这很有挑战性，因为他不懂格陵兰语。他主要通过肢体语言交流。他只会说“干杯”这个词，而这个词他一天要说上“50遍”。
Mr. Jazbec rose early each morning with Mr. Lovstrom for tours of the settlement or seal hunts on a wooden sled pulled by six to 10 dogs and built by Mr. Lovstrom, a former dog sled racer. Mr. Lovstrom used to travel more than 10 hours outside of the settlement to hunt, but lately he has relied more on ice fishing. In April, the ice was thin in Greenland, a problem hunters like Mr. Lovstrom never encountered when winter regularly lasted 10 months instead of eight — a result of temperatures jumping from an average of minus 30 to minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit to between minus 15 and minus 25.
贾兹贝克每天早晨都会早起，与勒夫斯特伦一起巡视村落，或者坐着勒夫斯特伦自制的、由六到十只狗拉着的木质雪橇去捕杀海豹。勒夫斯特伦曾参加过狗拉雪橇比赛，以前经常走10几个小时的路程，到村落之外的地方打猎，但他最近更多地依靠冰钓。4月份的时候，格陵兰岛上的冰层非常薄，像勒夫斯特伦这样的猎人以前从未遇到过这个问题。这里的冬天通常会持续10个月，而不是8个月。而现在之所以这样是因为气温从平均零下30至40华氏度跳升至零下15至25华氏度。
Thin ice, with its perils — Mr. Jazbec said hunters began falling through the ice, making longer journeys potentially deadly — is just one reason for the lack of subsistence hunters in the settlement. Sprouting small businesses that provide goods once hunted for and a changing attitude toward the culture of subsistence hunting by a younger generation eager to find larger towns and conventional jobs have also contributed.
薄冰非常危险。贾兹贝克称，猎人开始掉入冰窟，可能会在漫长的行程中丧生，但这只是很少有村民靠狩猎为生的原因之一。其他影响因素包括，遍地开花的小商店开始提供曾经依靠捕猎才能获得的商品，而年轻一代对维生狩猎文化的态度也发生了改变，他们渴望寻找更大的城镇和正常的工作。
“Not everyone in the settlement finds the changing climate bad,” Mr. Jazbec said. “It is an interesting juxtaposition from traditional life to younger life.” Even Mr. Lovstrom now regularly shops at a nearby store, though he continues to hunt for meat.
“并不是每个村民都认为气候变化非常糟糕，”贾兹贝克说。“传统生活与现代生活并存是非常有趣的事情。”甚至连勒夫斯特伦现在都经常到附近的商店购物，尽管他仍然靠捕猎获得肉类。
Along with landscape shots of the frosty settlement, interiors of homes, laundry lines and a few of the 500 Greenlandic dogs that provide crucial transportation, Mr. Jazbec showed the transformation of daily life. One photograph pictured Mr. Lovstrom watching one of three channels on a large flat-screen television his sons bought for him. According to Mr. Jazbec, Mr. Lovstrom watched the television for hours, particularly news coverage of the Boston Marathon bombing.
除了拍摄冰雪皑皑的村落、房屋内部、晾衣绳和500只提供重要交通工具的格陵兰犬，贾兹贝克还展现了日常生活的转变。一张照片显示，勒夫斯特伦在看电视，他的儿子给他买了一台大屏平板电视，一共能收到三个频道。贾兹贝克称，勒夫斯特伦看了几个小时的电视，特别是有关波士顿马拉松爆炸事件的新闻报道。
“It was absurd for me to see him watching television,” Mr. Jazbec said. “He’s sitting there on the couch, but this exotic landscape is right outside the window.”
“看着他看电视，感觉很怪诞。”贾兹贝克说。“他坐在沙发上，但窗外就是奇妙的景色。”
Mr. Jazbec’s favorite photograph shows Mr. Lovstrom clad in polar bear-skin pants he wears to fend off icy winds while lying on the ice, in pain from an old racing injury, line fishing through a hole he has just made.
在贾兹贝克最喜欢的照片中，身穿熊皮裤子抵御寒风的勒夫斯特伦躺在冰层上，通过自己刚刚挖好的洞钓鱼，而雪橇比赛留下的旧伤让他非常痛苦。
“It was one of those moments when you know you have something amazing in front of you,” Mr. Jazbec said. “His expression looks like he is dying, but it is just that he is hurting. His heart is full of life and strong will.”
“有时候你知道面前有着非常神奇的东西，这就是那样的时刻。”贾兹贝克说。“他的表情看起来像是快要死了，但他那会儿只是非常疼。他的心充满活力和坚强意志。”
Mr. Jazbec plans to return to Mr. Lovstrom’s settlement as well as neighboring ones in March. The ice may be thin, but his feelings are not.
贾兹贝克计划在今年3月回到勒夫斯特伦所在的村落及周围的村庄。冰层或许的确很薄，但他的感情却非常深厚。
“It’s difficult as a photographer to get close enough to someone who lets you live with them,” he said of his bond with Mr. Lovstrom and his desire to revisit and expand on the work he has already done. “It’s hard to gain trust; that’s why it’s special to me.”
“即便有人允许摄影师跟他们一起生活，你还是很难真正接近他们，”他提到自己与勒夫斯特伦的关系及对故地重游和扩展已完成工作的渴望时说。“获得信任非常不易，因此，这对我来说非常特别。”