With a budget of about $1 million, Patricia Marx began looking for a two-bedroom, two-bath apartment in Manhattan last fall. She soon realized just how limited her options were.
拿着100万美元（约合人民币626万元）的预算，帕特里夏·马克思(Patricia Marx)去年秋天开始在曼哈顿寻找两室两卫的公寓。她很快就意识到了自己的选择余地是多么有限。
“For a while, we were determined to acquire the large two-bedroom in the back of a building on Fifth Avenue,” said Ms. Marx, a staff writer at The New Yorker who is looking for a larger space with her boyfriend, Paul Roossin, a scientist and tech entrepreneur. “The apartment’s asking price was within my range, $995, but the board required you to have amassed three times as much money in your bank account as the purchase price.
“有段时间，我们决心买下第五大道的一套面积很大的两居室，它在一栋大楼的后部，”马克思表示。马克思是《纽约客》的特约撰稿人，正和男友保罗·罗辛(Paul Roossin)物色一套大点的房子。罗辛是从事科研的创业者。“它的要价是99.5万美元（约合人民币623万元），在我的预算范围内。但是，管委会要求购房者的存款必须达到买价的三倍。”
“In other words,” she said, “you had to demonstrate that you were someone who would never want the apartment you claimed to want.”
“也就是说，”她说，“你必须展示出自己的财力多得根本就不会想买你在申请的这种公寓。”
The couple found a charming five-story walk-up in Gramercy, but the second bedroom “required scaling what was more ladder than staircase,” she said. “It is the perfect apartment for Heidi or for someone who plans never to leave.”
这对情侣在葛莱美西(Gramercy)找到一套吸引人的五层无电梯公寓，但是，要进入次卧“就得登高爬梯，更确切地说是爬梯子，而不是走楼梯，”她说，“这套公寓最适合海蒂（Heidi，瑞士著名儿童文学《海蒂》里的主人公——译注）、或者打算永远住在这儿的人。”
Then there was the chic one-bedroom, two-bathroom in the Flatiron district. “I went to check it out but it was taken before I got off the subway,” she said.
接下来，他们在熨斗区(Flatiron)找到一套一室两卫的房子，装潢很别致。“我跑去看房，结果还没下地铁，房子就被买走了。”她说。
As Ms. Marx quickly learned, rising prices and an ongoing scarcity of listings mean that buyers in the million-dollar price range are increasingly out of luck or forced to make major compromises.
马克思很快就意识到，随着房价的上涨和挂牌房源的持续紧缺，一百万价位的房子已经越来越难找，除非买家愿意做出重大妥协。
Low inventory, high demand and a shift toward larger units in new luxury developments pushed the median sale price for a Manhattan apartment to $972,428 in the first quarter of the year, up 18.5 percent over the same period last year, according to a report by the Douglas Elliman brokerage firm. 
根据房地产经纪公司Douglas Elliman发布的一份报告，由于库存低、需求高，加上豪宅项目开始着眼于更大的住宅单位，曼哈顿公寓的售价中值在今年一季度达到了972428美元（约合人民币608.7万元），比去年同期增长了18.5%。
That’s just 5 percent below the peak of $1,025,000 in the second quarter of 2008 — the only time the median has crossed the $1 million threshold.
这与2008年二季度的峰值相比，只有5%的差距。当时的峰值为1025000美元（约合人民币641.5万元），那是曼哈顿的公寓售价中值唯一一次突破百万美元大关。
Eventually, Ms. Marx went into contract on a two-bedroom, two-bath with a lovely view in the Sutton Place area that was listed for $995,000. “The apartment is a wreck,” she said, noting a crumbling bathroom, gaping holes covered with blue tarp and a vintage oven. With an impending renovation, she expects to pay at least $1.2 million in all. “I convinced myself I was dealing with play money,” said Ms. Marx, who recently listed her current home, a gracious one-bedroom corner unit on East 88th Street in Carnegie Hill for $975,000. “A million dollars to me still seems like an unfathomable amount of money.”
到最后，马克思签约买下了萨顿广场区(Sutton Place)的一套两室两卫住房。房子视野不错，挂牌价995000美元（约合人民币622.8万元）。“这套公寓破旧得跟残骸似的，”她说。她注意到浴室已经摇摇欲坠，墙上的一个个洞口用蓝色防水布和一台古旧的烤箱挡着。由于装修迫在眉睫，她预计一共要花费120万美元（约合人民币751万元）。“我安慰自己说，我交易的只是游戏币，”马克思说。她最近已将现在住的房子挂牌上市，挂牌价975000美元（约合人民币610.3万元）。这套房子位于卡内基山(Carnegie Hill)东88街，是一套奢华的一居室转角公寓。“100万美元对于我来说，似乎仍是一笔难以想象的数额。”
Part of the problem for buyers is that new supply isn’t growing fast enough to meet the demand for apartments priced at $1 million or less.
对于买家，部分问题在于，价位不超100万美元的房产的新房供应增速不够快，难以满足他们的需求。
“Below a million is like a dying breed,” said Jonathan J. Miller, the author of Elliman’s report and the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel.
“小于一百万美元的房子，就像一个濒临灭绝的物种。”Elliman报告的作者、房地产估值公司Miller Samuel的总裁乔纳森·J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)表示。
Apartments for $1 million or less still make up the bulk of the Manhattan market, but that piece of the pie has shrunk significantly. About 52 percent of sales in Manhattan in the first quarter were below $1 million, compared with 60 percent for the same period a year ago, according to Mr. Miller. A decade ago, 71 percent of all Manhattan sales were below $1 million.
在曼哈顿的房产市场中，不超过100万美元的房源依然是主流，只不过这块蛋糕已经严重缩水。根据米勒的调查，在一季度，曼哈顿大约有52%的已售房源价位小于100万美元，而在去年同期，这一比例为60%。十年前，这一比例为71%。
In the first three months of the year, 4,692 apartments were for sale for $1 million or less, down about 20 percent from the same period last year, according to Streeteasy, which tracks the listings of most Manhattan brokerage firms. Three years ago, 8,014 units were on the market for $1 million or less in the first quarter.
房地产搜索网站Streeteasy追踪着曼哈顿多数经纪公司的挂牌记录。根据该网站的调查，在今年头三个月，有4692套公寓的售价未超100万美元，与去年同期相比减少了20%左右。而三年前的一季度，则有8014套价位不超100万美元的公寓在市场上销售。
This turn of events is disappointing buyers with a nest egg that would buy a mansion in many parts of the country. The national median sale price, which tends to be a more stable measure of market prices than the average price, is $194,400, according to data from Zillow.
这种变化趋势正对买家造成打击。对于这些买家而言，他们的存款原本足以在美国的许多地方购买豪宅。根据房地产网站Zillow的数据，全美国的售价中值仅为194400美元（约合人民币121.7万元）。售价中值一般被视为比均价更稳定的市场价格指标。
Just how tough is it to find something for $1 million or less in Manhattan right now? Consider a snapshot of apartments in that price range taken earlier this month by Streeteasy.
那么，现在要想在曼哈顿买一套不超过100万美元的房子，究竟有多难呢？我们且来看一下本月早些时候Streeteasy发布的一份针对该价位房源的公寓市场快报。
The neighborhoods with the most apartments for $1 million or less were the Upper West Side, which had 167 listings; Yorkville, 140; Lenox Hill, 126; the Upper East Side, 115; and Murray Hill, 112. Of those, the majority were studios and one-bedrooms. The studios ranged from a compact but nicely staged studio in an elevator building with a doorman, 205 East 78th Street, No. 4E, listed by Corcoran for $395,000; to a pristine studio listed by Stribling at 3 Gramercy Park West for $995,000. (The price includes a coveted key to the park, directly across the street.)
上西区有167套价位不超100万美元的挂牌房源，居所有社区之首；紧随其后的依次是：约克维尔(Yorkville)，140套；莱诺克斯山(Lenox Hill)，126套；上东区，115套；穆雷山(Murray Hill)，112套。当然，这些房源大多都是单间公寓和一居室。单间公寓的档次各有不同，有的虽然布局紧凑，但是地段好，楼内有电梯，有门卫，比如东78街205号4E室，由Corcoran公司挂牌销售，挂牌价395000美元（约合人民币247.2万元）；有的装潢比较朴实，比如葛莱美西公园西3号的一套单间公寓，由Stribling公司挂牌销售，挂牌价995000美元（约合人民币620.6万元，价格中包含一把令人垂涎的钥匙，可以打开街道正对面的公园大门）。
Moving up in size, an “estate condition” one-bedroom, 565 West End Avenue, No. 7E, was listed for $899,000 by Halstead Property.
在面积更大的房源里，西区大道(West End Avenue)565号7E室是一套带一间卧室的“遗产房”，由房地产公司Halstead Property挂牌销售，挂牌价899000美元（约合人民币562.7万元）。
Practically nothing was available for $1 million or less in hot neighborhoods like NoLIta (2), TriBeCa (4), Central Park South (5), Flatiron (16), SoHo (17) or the West Village (23).
热门的街区里就几乎没有价位不超过100万美元的房源了。比如诺丽塔区(NoLIta)（2套）、翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)（4套）、中央公园南（5套）、熨斗区（16套）、苏豪区(SoHo)（17套），或是西村（23套）。
Sure, those who search hard enough may find gems, but they tend to be snapped up quickly, attract bidding wars or come with major financial constraints. A one-bedroom with a fireplace, a washer/dryer and a lovely bi-level garden listed by Halstead Property is available for $995,000 at 353 East 50th Street. “We had offers but it ended up that an all-cash purchase is preferred,” said Wigder Frota, the listing broker.
当然，要是努力搜寻，或许也能找到宝贝，但是这种房源一般很快就会被抢走。它们要么会引发竞购大战，要么带有严格的财力要求。东50街353号有一套一居室公寓，带一个壁炉、一台洗衣烘干两用机以及一座漂亮的错层花园。该房源由Halstead Property挂牌销售，挂牌价995000美元（约合人民币620.6万元）。“有好几位买家出了价，结果还是全现金的买家最受青睐。”卖方经纪人维杰·弗洛塔(Wigder Frota)说。
Central Harlem had the most two-bedrooms of any neighborhood, 45 earlier this month, according to Streeteasy. Two-bedrooms below 96th were often in need of major renovation or involved compromises.
根据Streeteasy的数据，哈莱姆中心区(Central Harlem)的两居室最多，本月早些时候有45套。96街以内的两居室一般需要大修，要么就需要买家做出其它妥协。
For instance, a move-in condition two-bedroom in Turtle Bay is listed for $995,000 with Halstead Property. Pros include central air-conditioning, capacious closets and a view of the Chrysler Building from one of the bedrooms. The con: The living room and kitchen look out on a brick wall.
比方说，海龟湾(Turtle Bay)有一套可直接入住的两居室，由Halstead Property以995000美元（约合人民币620.6万元）挂牌销售。这套房子的优势在于，室内配有中央空调、大容量橱柜，从其中一间卧室可以看到克莱斯勒大厦(Chrysler Building)的景观。而劣势在于，从客厅和厨房往外看，只能看到一堵砖墙。
With few exceptions, said Alan Lightfeldt, a data analyst with Streeteasy, “you won’t find anything bigger than a two-bedroom below 96th Street.” Buyers in search of three-bedrooms, he said, found the most in Central Harlem (14) and Washington Heights (13).
Streeteasy的数据分析师艾伦·莱特菲尔德(Alan Lightfeldt)说，“在96街以内，你找不到比两居室更大的房子了。”几乎没有例外。他说，三居室最多的社区是哈莱姆中央区（14套）和华盛顿高地(Washington Heights)（13套）。
But be prepared for competition. Kim Martin-Shah, an agent with Douglas Elliman, recently listed a three-bedroom, two-and-half bath at 2292 Frederick Douglass Boulevard for $975,000. Eighty-seven prospective buyers came to the first open house earlier this month, not counting people who chose not to sign in.
但是，也要做好竞争的准备。Douglas Elliman的经纪人金姆·马丁-沙阿(Kim Martin-Shah)最近挂牌销售了一套带有三间卧室、两个半浴室的房源，该房源位于弗雷德里克·道格拉斯大道(Frederick Douglass Boulevard)2292号，挂牌价975000美元（约合人民币608.1万元）。在本月早些时候的第一个开放参观日，就有87位潜在买家来到现场，这还没算上那些不愿签到的参观者。
“It was madness,” Ms. Martin-Shah said. Brokers huddled in corners, strategizing with clients while a woman with an iPhone showed the apartment to her spouse via video chat and a family traded off a crying child in order to tour the space. “We had multiple offers by the next day,” she said.
“现场很疯狂，”马丁-沙阿说。经纪人挤在角落里给客户出主意；有位女士拿着iPhone，通过视频聊天给她丈夫展示公寓的情况；有一家人为了好好看房，把哭闹的孩子送走了。“我们在一天内就收到了好几位买家的出价。”她说。
“It’s deflating,” said Audra Tuskes, a design executive for a hotel company with a young daughter who began searching for a two-bedroom, two-bath with a $1 million budget about six months ago.
“房源正在缩减，”奥德拉·蒂什凯什(Audra Tuskes)说。蒂什凯什在一家酒店公司担任设计总监，有一个年幼的女儿。六个月前，她开始寻找两室两卫、价格不超过100万美元的房子。
“A two-bedroom in the areas I’m looking at in all of downtown is virtually non-existent,” she said, pointing out a recent search on Streeteasy that yielded just 40 properties below 23rd Street.
“我找遍了市中心，在我看的地区，基本上不存在两居室的待售房源，”她说。此外，蒂什凯什指出，最近她在Streeteasy上搜索23街以内的两居室时，只找到40处房产。
Refining that search to neighborhoods with schools to which she might send her daughter, like TriBeCa, the financial district, Battery Park City and the Fulton/Seaport area, the number dropped to just four properties — some of which were in contract. “That’s the situation,” she said. “That’s why it’s so difficult.”
要是把搜索条件限定在特定的学区（以便将来把女儿送进好学校），比如翠贝卡区、金融区、炮台公园城(Battery Park City)和富尔顿/海港区(Fulton/Seaport)，搜索结果便只剩下四个——而且其中有些还已经成交了。“情况就是这样，”她说，“所以找房子就是这么难。”
After considering an estate sale and a place with pink granite floors, she decided she didn’t want to take on a two-bedroom in need of a full-tilt renovation. Ms. Tuskes, who is working with Corlie Ohl of Citi Habitats, dialed back her expectations.
有两套房子是蒂什凯什曾经考虑要买的，其中一套是遗产房，另一套铺着粉色的花岗岩地板。后来她决定，凡是需要大修的两居室都不考虑。现在，蒂什凯什正和Citi Habitats的科利·奥尔(Corlie Ohl)合作找房，她把自己的期望值降了下来。
“Frankly,” Ms. Tuskes said, “I’m looking at a decent space without legal bedrooms — something with decent sleeping space but not what one could technically market as a bedroom.”
“老实说，”蒂什凯什说，“我现在正在找的那种房子没有真正意义上的卧室，但是能住人——有个像样的、可以睡觉的地方，只不过从严格意义上讲不会被当成一居室来卖。”
She recently placed a bid on a financial district condo but lost to a buyer who waived all financing contingencies, a risk Ms. Tuskes was not willing to take. Days later she placed an offer on a West Village one-bedroom. “The list price was in the low $900,000 range,” Ms. Tuskes said. “I bid significantly above ask. The accepted offer was apparently over $1 million, cash.”
她最近给金融区的一套共管公寓报了价，但是输给了另一个买家。对方放弃了所有贷款批准附加条款（Financial Contingency，如果买家在贷款批准附加条款的有效期内，收到银行拒绝贷款申请的书面通知，只要把通知寄一份给卖主，合同就取消了——译注），而她不想冒这么大的风险。几天后，她又对西村的一套一居室报了价。“挂牌价是90万美元（约合人民币563万元）的低价位，”蒂什凯什说，“我的报价比要价高很多。显然，卖家最终接受的报价超过了100万美元，而且是现金支付的。”
Indeed, buyers in Ms. Tuskes’s price range often have competition from investors looking to park their money in Manhattan real estate who can pay cash. Sellers, wielding the upper hand, often insist that buyers waive mortgage contingencies, risking the return of their deposit if financing falls through. This puts buyers without a lot of money to burn in a tricky position.
当然，像蒂什凯什这样的买家经常会面临来自投资者的竞争，这些投资者寻求将资金投入曼哈顿房地产市场，而且有财力支付现金。占据谈判优势的卖家，往往会坚持要求买家放弃贷款批准附加条款，一旦银行拒绝批准房贷，买家将面临无法拿回定金的风险。这就使那些存款不多的买家陷入了两难境地。
If you waive the contingency on a $1 million apartment and you can’t secure a mortgage, said Loretta Bricchi Lee, a broker at Citi Habitats, “the only way you back out from that contract is you lose $100,000. That’s a lot of money.” Many people, she said, “don’t want to risk it.”
Citi Habitats的经纪人露芮塔·布里基·李(Loretta Bricchi Lee)说，如果你买下一套100万美元的房子，并放弃了贷款批准附加条款，那么“解除合同的唯一办法就是掏10万美元（约合人民币63万元）。这是很大一笔钱。”她说，很多人“不愿意冒这个险。”
It doesn’t help that land prices remain high, encouraging developers to continue to build for the upper-upper-echelon to justify the cost of building. Just 85 units in new Manhattan developments were listed for $1 million or less at the end of the first quarter, according to the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group. That’s down more than 50 percent from the same period last year, when 203 units were available for $1 million or less.
更糟糕的是，地价依然在走高，刺激着开发商继续为“顶层梯队”建着房，以打平建筑成本。根据科克伦阳光营销集团(Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group)的调查，截至一季度末，曼哈顿挂牌的新开发项目中，只有85套公寓的挂牌价不超过100万美元，与去年同期的203套相比减少了50%。
After one disappointment after another, some buyers are turning to off-market deals drummed up by ambitious brokers. Charles Keane, a sales engineering manager in the data security industry who is relocating from Boston, has been bested six times by higher offers or all-cash deals — including a one-bedroom with a den that he visited after driving eight hours in a snowstorm so as to be the first in the door at the open house.
经历了一次又一次打击之后，有些买家开始将希望寄托到别处——也就是那些雄心勃勃的经纪人为他们争取到的场外交易。在数据安全公司担任销售工程经理的查尔斯·基恩(Charles Keane)，打算从波士顿搬到纽约。他已经连续六次被出价更高或全现金支付的买家抢走房子了——其中一套带地下室的一居室，是他当初冒着暴雪开了八小时的车去看的房，只为在开放参观日当天做头一个登门的买家。