In March, the Icon 52, a new building on Queens Boulevard in Woodside, opened to renters. Its 66 units were marketed as affordable luxury apartments with amenities that included a roof deck with views of Manhattan.
今年3月，在伍德赛德(Woodside)地区的皇后大道(Queens Boulevard)，有一座新住宅楼Icon 52向租房者正式开放。其中66套公寓已被定为平价的豪华公寓，其配套设施包括一座屋顶平台，在上面可俯瞰曼哈顿景观。
Six weeks later, the apartments — which ranged from studios renting for $1,500 to $1,700 a month to two-bedrooms renting for $2,350 to $2,600 — had all been taken, according to Greg Kyroglou, a salesman for Modern Spaces, a real estate company that handled the Icon 52 rentals.
据负责Icon 52房屋租赁交易的房地产公司Modern Spaces的销售人员格雷格·基洛格劳(Greg Kyroglou)说，六周后，这些公寓已经全部租出，其中包括月租1500到1700美元（约合人民币9342到10588元）的单间公寓，也包括租金2350到2600美元（约合人民币14636到16193元）的两居室。
“We work a lot in Astoria and Long Island City, where a lot of people have been priced out,” Mr. Kyroglou said. “We found they’re willing to go to Woodside. If you’re getting the same type of apartment that you would find in Long Island City and it’s $1,000 cheaper, you’re going to be willing to move.”
“我们在阿斯托利亚区(Astoria)和长岛市(Long Island City)下了很大功夫，那里有很多人因为房价高而不得不搬走，”基洛格劳说，“我们发现他们愿意来伍德赛德居住。要是有一套房子，条件跟你在长岛市的住处差不多，但便宜1000美元（约合人民币6228元），你会愿意搬的。”
Some buyers also have been discouraged by the high price of real estate in nearby neighborhoods and started to look in Woodside, said Lisa D’Amico, an associate broker with Douglas Elliman Real Estate. They “cast a wider net and end up in Woodside,” she said. “They are moving along the subway line, and I think Woodside is just beginning to be discovered.”
还有些买家，被附近社区的高房价打击了，就开始在伍德赛德物色房源，道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的助理经纪人丽莎·达米科(Lisa D’Amico)说。他们“从一开始范围更广的搜索范围，最终锁定了伍德赛德，”她说，“他们沿着地铁线找房子，而我觉得伍德赛德的价值才刚开始被发掘。”
Ms. D’Amico sells co-ops in Woodside’s Boulevard Gardens, a Depression-era complex of 10 buildings on 11 acres with gardens, lawns and a playground.
达米科正在销售位于伍德赛德的大道花园(Boulevard Gardens)内的合作公寓。大道花园是一处大萧条时期的综合建筑群，包含十座大楼，占地11英亩（约合44515平方米），其中有多处花园、草坪和一座运动场。
“We’re right on the Astoria border and blocks from Long Island City in this great little triangle,” she said, “but at prices far less than you would pay in those two neighborhoods.”
“这片环境优雅的小三角区，就在阿斯托利亚的边缘，离长岛市只有几个街区，”她说，“但是这里的房价比阿斯托利亚和长岛市要低得多。”
Despite the nascent interest spilling over from nearby areas, Woodside is at its heart an affordable and vibrant immigrant community.
尽管附近社区的人开始对伍德赛德感兴趣，但从本质上讲，伍德赛德还是一个房价平实、充满活力的移民社区。
After a wave of immigration of Irish, Germans and Italians in the early 20th century, the area more recently has attracted arrivals from Central and South America and from Asia. Here you find Ecuadoreans, Colombians and Chinese among other nationalities. Filipinos also have congregated in Woodside, creating what is known as Little Manila, a strip of Roosevelt Avenue from 62nd to 71st streets lined with Filipino shops and restaurants.
20世纪初，来自爱尔兰、德国和意大利的移民涌入此地；而最近，这里吸引的是中、南美洲及亚洲的移民。你在这里可以找到厄瓜多尔、哥伦比亚和中国等国籍的居民。菲律宾人也涌入伍德赛德，在罗斯福大道(Roosevelt Avenue)从第62街到第71街之间的一片狭长地带，创立了一处人称“小马尼拉”(Little Manila)的地区，街道两旁，菲律宾商店和饭馆林立。
Ana Chan, an associate broker with Wagner and Kelly Real Estate, said diversity is one of the first things people notice when being introduced to Woodside. “In one day, you can talk to people of eight or nine different nationalities,” she said.
Wagner and Kelly房地产公司的助理经纪人安娜·陈(Ana Chan)说，初识伍德赛德，人们首先注意到的是那里的多样性。“一天之内，你就能跟八、九个不同国籍的人说上话，”她说。
Robert Graziano, 47, a computer programmer and musician, said he bought a one-bedroom co-op in Woodside last August after looking in Sunnyside and finding it too expensive. While the affordability of his new home was what drew him to Woodside (he paid $170,000 for a 700-square-foot apartment), he enjoys the neighborhood’s international atmosphere.
47岁的罗伯特·格拉齐亚诺(Robert Graziano)是计算机程序员兼音乐人。他说自己去年8月在伍德赛德买了一套一居室的合作公寓，之前在桑尼赛德(Sunnyside)地区也找过房子，但是觉得太贵。虽然一开始被伍德赛德吸引，是因为他买下的那套新房价格比较适中（他花17万美元[约合人民币106万元]买了一套700平方英尺[约合65平方米]的公寓），不过他也很喜欢这个社区的国际化氛围。
“Being a musician-artist type, I have lived in areas with hipsters and I love that, but I also like to see families, and here you have the Filipino community, Ecuadoreans and some Colombians,” he said. Before moving to Woodside, he rented in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn.
“作为一个音乐领域的艺人，我以前都是跟各类潮人住在一起，我很喜欢那里；但我也喜欢看见一个个家庭。这里有菲律宾社区、厄瓜多尔人和一些哥伦比亚人，”他说。在搬到伍德赛德之前，他在布鲁克林的戴克高地(Dyker Heights)租房住。
Mr. Graziano is also seeing some changes in Woodside. “In the supermarket,” he said, “there is the aisle with Goya products but also one with microbrew beers.”
格拉齐亚诺也注意到了伍德赛德发生的一些变化。“在超市里，”他说，“既有卖Goya（美国最大的西班牙裔食品公司——译注）产品的货架，也有卖现微酿啤酒的货架。”