In New York, everything has a price — even sunshine.
在纽约，任何东西都有价格——连阳光也是。
As Manhattan rents rise over all, retailers are jockeying for prime locations, and are paying a premium for areas like the east side of Fifth Avenue — the sunnier side of the street.
随着曼哈顿的店铺租金全线上涨，零售商们纷纷开始抢占黄金地段。有些热门地段还会让零售商心甘情愿地支付一笔溢价，比如第五大道东侧的片区，也即街道阳光更充足的一侧。
New York’s most expensive retail space, prime Fifth Avenue, is the second-most expensive in the world, after Lan Kwai Fong in Hong Kong, beating out the Champs-Élysées in Paris and New Bond Street in London, according to the retail group at Douglas Elliman Real Estate, which supplied most of the figures for this article.
地处黄金商圈的第五大道，是纽约铺租最贵的零售场所，其租金在世界上高居第二，仅次于香港的兰桂坊；紧随其后的是巴黎的香榭丽舍大街和伦敦的新邦德街(New Bond Street)。上述数据来自房地产公司Douglas Elliman Real Estate零售部门的调查，本文引用的大部分数据皆来源于此。
Elliman recently arranged deals for Orogold Cosmetics on 57th and Park, and Buccellati jewelry, Armani Junior and Perrin Paris 1893, a leather accessory brand, on Madison.
Elliman近日帮一系列世界级品牌大鳄签订了租约，将第57街(57th street)近公园大道(Park Avenue)的店面租给了化妆品巨头Orogold Cosmetics，将麦迪逊大道(Madison Avenue)的三家店面分别租给了珠宝世家蒲希拉蒂(Buccellati)、时装品牌阿玛尼童装(Armani Junior)和皮革配饰品牌Parrin Paris 1893。
“It sounds cocky, but it’s New York and then it’s the rest of the world, and that’s why everybody wants to be here,” said Faith Hope Consolo, a broker with Elliman.
“这听起来或许有自吹自擂之嫌，但是纽约就是和世界上其它地方不一样。也正因如此，人人都对纽约心驰神往。”Elliman的房产经纪人费丝·霍普·孔索洛(Faith Hope Consolo)说。
According to the latest figures available from the Real Estate Board of New York, the average retail price sought per square foot in Manhattan in spring 2013 was $116, up 5.4 percent from fall 2012.
根据纽约房地产委员会(Real Estate Board of New York)发布的最新数据，2013年春，曼哈顿的零售店面平均租金达到了每平方英尺116美元（约合每平方米人民币7844元），比2012年秋上涨了5.4%。
Walk up and down Fifth Avenue, or shop on 57th Street, and the reasons for the variations in the price of retail space are mostly secrets known to retailers and developers. Sun is a major factor. Shoppers generally gravitate to the sunny side of the street, and the natural light helps showcase retailers’ goods.
来来往往的游人漫步在第五大道，流连于第57街的商铺，他们并不知道为什么街边零售店的铺租各有不同。其中的机巧之处，大多只有零售商和开发商才心里有数。阳光是一个举足轻重的因素。购物者一般都喜欢聚集在街道朝阳的一侧，良好的采光能够让零售商店内展示的商品更具吸引力。
Transportation is another. Pedestrian traffic will be higher on streets with subway exits.
交通是另一个重要因素。在有地铁站口的街道上，步行人流量也会更大。
And the lineup of shops around a location may be most significant. “Your neighbors are very important,” said Larry Meyer, chief operating officer for United States business at Uniqlo, a Japanese clothing retailer. The chain opened a 90,000-square-foot store on Fifth Avenue and 53rd Street two years ago, and has Zara and Hollister clothing stores next door. Counterintuitively, retailers like to set up shop next to direct competitors, so customers can wander from one like-minded store into the next.
而周边店铺的阵容，或许是至关重要的因素。“你的邻居很关键。”优衣库(Uniqlo)美国公司的首席运营官拉里·梅耶尔(Larry Meyer)表示。日本连锁服装品牌优衣库于两年前在第五大道近第53街(53rd Street)路段开设了旗舰店，隔壁就是飒拉(Zara)和霍利斯特(Hollister)的服装店。有悖于常理的是，零售商喜欢在直接竞争对手的旁边开店。这样一来，顾客逛街时就能在相似店面间轻轻松松地货比三家。
“There are many nuances where literally half a block can make a difference of double the rent,” said Donald J. Trump, the real-estate developer, whose Trump Tower sits at Fifth Avenue and 56th Street, and who leases retail space throughout the city.
“有很多细微的差别，能令租金存在天壤之别。有时候，两家店铺可能相隔才不过半个街区，但租金却差了整整一倍。”房地产开发商唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)说。特朗普开发的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)坐落在第五大道近第56街(56th Street)的地段。此外，全市各地都有他招租的零售店铺。
And now that the recession is over, retail rents over all have begun to rise, signifying changes in some notable blocks and streets in Manhattan.
如今，由于经济已经停止衰退，零售店铺的租金已开始全线上涨，曼哈顿一些主要街区的铺租行情正在经历显著变化。
Here are some patterns in Manhattan’s liveliest retail districts, and in a couple of clunkers. (Of one particular avenue, Ms. Consolo said, sighing, “We don’t even talk about it.”
这里是曼哈顿一些最繁华的零售商圈的铺租行情。有几个街区曾经很繁华，但如今却已惨淡不堪。（孔索洛在谈到其中一条大道时，叹了口气说：“我们甚至都懒得提它了。”）
Fifth Avenue
第五大道(Fifth Avenue)
The east side of Fifth, between 49th and 59th Streets, commands the most expensive retail rents in the city, with asking prices of $3,500 a square foot, according to estimates by Douglas Elliman Real Estate’s retail group. The sunny stretch starts with the tourist destinations Saks Fifth Avenue and St. Patrick’s Cathedral, then continues north with store after store, Cartier, De Beers, Tiffany, F.A.O. Schwarz and Apple.
根据Douglas Elliman公司的零售部门估计，第五大道东侧近第49街至59街之间的地段，是全纽约市零售店租金最贵的地带，每平方英尺要价3500美元（约合每平方米人民币236611元）。这片阳光地带的南端，就是旅游胜地萨克斯第五大道精品百货店(Saks Fifth Avenue)和圣帕特里克大教堂(St. Patrick's Cathedral)。从这里开始，一座座商铺鳞次栉比地向北延伸，其中包括珠宝品牌卡地亚(Cartier)、戴比尔斯(De Beers)和蒂芙尼(Tiffany)，玩具品牌F.A.O. Schwarz以及苹果(Apple)。
The west side of Fifth Avenue, while still desirable, asks about $3,000 a square foot, as “the institutions, the clubs, the churches” interrupt a much-preferred store-after-store march along the avenue, Mr. Trump said.
特朗普表示，第五大道西侧的租金要价在每平方英尺3000美元左右（约合每平方米人民币202811元），依然是抢手地段；只不过，那里的商铺之间插进了“各大机构、俱乐部和教堂”，不像东侧那样商铺一家挨一家，地段条件更为优越。
The watch retailer Wempe opened its first multibrand boutique in 1980 on the east side of Fifth. A decade later, when that lease expired, it searched for another East Side location. “The west side at the time was still sort of underdeveloped, almost like a no man’s land,” dotted with electronics stores, said Ruediger Albers, president of American Wempe Corporation. It had “nothing that would make you want to cross the street.”
1980年，奢华钟表珠宝商Wempe【据此品牌官网，wempe尚无中文名，故随官网方式保留原文拼写】在第五大道东侧开设了旗下第一家多品牌精品店。十年后，由于租约到期，该公司开始在第五大道东侧另寻铺面。“当时第五大道西侧还没怎么被人开发，几乎就像无人区一样，”只有零星几家电子用品商店，Wempe美国公司的总裁吕迪格·阿尔伯斯(Ruediger Albers)说，“那边没什么东西能吸引在东侧逛街的人想要穿过马路去。”
But when Wempe could not find East Side space, it opened a store on Fifth and 55th, on the west side of the avenue.
不过Wempe在东侧已经找不到铺面了，于是把店铺开在了第五大道近第55街的地段，也就是第五大道的西侧。
In recent years, the west side has become a magnet for mass-market stores, like Uniqlo, Abercrombie & Fitch and H&M, all of which opened flashy stores. “We get a lot of tourists into Fifth Avenue,” said Mr. Meyer of Uniqlo. “As basically an embryonic company here in the U.S., we thought it was important to establish that flagship so there was some benefit to suburban stores as well.”
近年来，第五大道的西侧已开始像磁石一般，吸引了众多面向大众市场的品牌。比如服饰品牌优衣库、Abercrombie & Fitch和H&M都入驻了第五大道西侧，将店面装修得富丽堂皇。“第五大道的游客很多，”优衣库的梅耶尔说，“优衣库才刚打入美国市场，所以我们认为很有必要在市中心开一家旗舰店，这样也有助于带动郊区店面的销量。”
Last year, Wempe opened a second boutique, which sells Rolex watches, on the east side of the street. Mr. Albers says he sees no big difference in traffic now that he has stores on both sides.Having those big retailers as neighbors can actually be a plus on the west side, he said. “There’s a lot of high end on this side, but also something for the kids that might attract families to walk” on the west side of the street, he said.
去年，Wempe在第五大道东侧开设了第二家精品店，销售劳力士(Rolex)手表。阿尔伯斯说，当他在路东侧和西侧都开了店后，就觉得在客流上已经没有太大区别了。在西侧开店，旁边都是些大型零售商，这实际上很加分。他说，“这一侧不仅有很多高端店铺，还有一些儿童品牌，或许能把拖家带口的人也吸引”到西侧来。他说。
Retail rents drop substantially as Fifth goes south, to about $1,000 a square foot from 49th to 42nd streets, where mall staples like Ann Taylor and Sephora have stores. Rents are $425 a square foot from 42nd to 34th streets, where Bryant Park breaks up the retail landscape, but also where Lord & Taylor and the Empire State Building draw tourists farther south.
在第五大道上，越往南走，铺租就降得越多。从第49街到第42街，铺租大约为每平方英尺1000美元（约合每平方米人民币67600元）。时装品牌安·泰勒(Ann Taylor)和美容品牌丝芙兰(Sephora)在这一地段设有店铺。从第42街到第34街，铺租为每平方英尺425美元（约合每平方米人民币28733元）。在这一地段上，布莱恩特公园(Bryant Park)打破了零售店铺绵延不绝的格局。此外，Lord & Taylor百货店和帝国大厦也吸引着游客继续往南走。
Madison Avenue
麦迪逊大道(Madison Avenue)
Madison has a haute-couture reputation, but it commands rents much lower than Fifth. From 57th to 72nd Streets, the west side of the street is priced about $1,300 a square foot, and the east side is about $1,400 a square foot.
麦迪逊大道是有名的高级时装店一条街，但其铺租却比第五大道便宜得多。从第57街到第72街，西侧街道的铺租为每平方英尺1300美元（约合每平方米人民币87889元）左右，而东侧街道的铺租为每平方英尺1400美元（约合每平方米人民币94644元）左右。
“People know to go to Madison for luxury, but it’s not a high-traffic destination,” said Susan Kurland, an executive vice president with CBRE.
“人们知道买奢侈品要去麦迪逊大道。但是麦迪逊大道上的客流量并不大。”地产咨询服务公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)的执行副总裁苏珊·库尔兰(Susan Kurland)说。
In an example of how one store can change a pattern, the west side of Madison “always had the lackluster tenants” until Barneys New York opened on the west side of 61st and Madison in 1993, Ms. Consolo said. Now, retailers are equally interested in both sides, although the east side still carries a slight premium — again, because of the sun.
孔索洛则说，有时候，一家店铺往往就能改变整条街的面貌。举个例子，麦迪逊大道西侧的“店铺行情一直不温不火”，直到1993年，巴尼斯纽约精品店（Barneys New York，一家高档百货连锁店——译注）在第61街近麦迪逊大道的路段正式开张。如今，零售品牌对麦迪逊大道两侧的店面都很感兴趣，只不过东侧更抢手一点——又是因为朝阳的原因。
“The designers all run to Madison because the scale, after you get to 61st, is much easier to digest,” Ms. Consolo said. Chanel, Jimmy Choo, Hermès and Prada line up along Madison, with two Ralph Lauren mansions facing each other at 72nd Street, ending the southern swath of chic boutiques.
“设计师们纷纷涌向麦迪逊大道，因为来第61街的顾客消费能力都比较强。”孔索洛说。香奈儿(Chanel)、周仰杰(Jimmy Choo)、爱马仕(Hermès)、普拉达(Prada)的商店在麦迪逊大道上一字排开；第72街上开了两家拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)旗舰店，之间只隔了一条马路。这里是高级时装店一条街的最南端。
Above 72nd Street, rents fall to about $700 a square foot, and it becomes “middle to high-end and aspirational retailers there,” Ms. Kurland said, like Missoni and Lilly Pulitzer. Farther north above 79th Street, rents drop to about $500, and brands with multiple locations like Lululemon and Theory cater largely to neighborhood shoppers.
自第72街再过去，铺租降到了每平方英尺700美元（约合每平方米人民币47322元）左右，这一地段聚集着“雄心勃勃的中高端零售商”，库尔兰说，比如时装品牌米索尼(Missoni)和丽莉·普利策(Lily Pulitzer)。而在第79街以北的地段，铺租跌到了每平方英尺500美元（约合每平方米人民币33800元）左右，像瑜伽服饰品牌露露柠檬(Lululemon)、时装品牌希尔瑞(Theory)这样铺面众多的商家，一般以小区购物者为主要目标客户。
“We had a store for years on Madison and what we realized is, Madison is more for the locals and it’s not so much for the tourists,” said Thomas Linemayr, chief executive of Lindt USA, which now has two stores on Fifth instead.
“我们在麦迪逊大道的店铺已经开了很多年，通过多年来的经营我们意识到，来麦迪逊大道消费的主要是本地人，游客相对少一些。”瑞士莲（Lindt，巧克力品牌——译注）美国公司的行政总裁托马斯·利内迈尔(Thomas Linemayr)说。目前，瑞士莲已经撤出麦迪逊大道，转而在第五大道开了两家店。
34th Street
第34街(34th Street)
It is see and be seen for mass-market chains here, thanks to the tourist traffic that Macy’s, Penn Station, Madison Square Garden and the Empire State Building attract.
由于宾夕法尼亚车站（Penn Station，位于曼哈顿中城的地铁车站——译注）、麦迪逊广场花园(Madison Square Garden)和帝国大厦吸引了源源不断的游客，在第34街可以见到大量面向大众市场的连锁店，被视为大众消费一条街。
H&M just announced it was opening a 63,000-square-foot store, its biggest, on the southwest corner of 34th and Broadway, cater-corner from its current store. The asking price for the new H&M space was $1,200 a square foot. In spring 2012, asking rents in the area were just $558 a square foot, according to the Real Estate Board of New York.
H&M近日宣布，将在第34街西南角、近百老汇的地段开设该公司目前为止最大的店铺，占地面积63000平方英尺（约合5853平方米）的新店，与当前的店面呈对角线分布。H&M新店的铺租要价为每平方英尺1200美元（约合每平方米人民币78122元）。根据纽约房地产委员会的调查，2012年春，该地段的铺租还只有每平方英尺558美元（约合每平方米人民币37722元）。
“Thirty-fourth does get tourists, but it’s considered a real shopping street; people go there to really shop, not for any other reason, and they do real numbers,” said Ms. Kurland, who represented the landlord in the H&M deal. Once Madison Square Garden is redeveloped, she predicted, the surrounding area will become more vibrant.
“第34街确实很吸引游客，不过，它真正的定位是一条购物街；人们来这里不为别的，就是为了购物，有实实在在的数字可以证明。”库尔兰说。库尔兰在H&M的店铺出租交易中代表房东一方。她预计，一旦麦迪逊公园广场被重新规划，周边区域会更加繁华。
57th Street
第57街(57th Street)
Cross the street, and double the rent.
过了马路，铺租加倍。
The north side of 57th, between Fifth and Park, goes for $2,000 a square foot. The south side in that space gets half that, mainly because there is just not much in the way of grand stores, brokers say. “When you hit Madison Avenue, you have the I.B.M. building,” Ms. Kurland said. “There’s no retail, so that’s a dead spot.” And while Niketown, perhaps the most prominent tenant on the south side, may be flashy and popular, it does not exactly ooze prestige.
在第57街北侧、第五大道和公园大道之间的路段，铺租为每平方英尺2000美元（约合每平方米人民币135211元）；而第57街南侧的铺租只有北侧的一半。之所以会这样，房地产经纪人说，是因为南侧没什么气派的商店。“你一直走到麦迪逊大街，只能看到I.B.M.的大楼，”库尔兰说，“这里没有零售店，所以旺不起来。”耐克城（Niketown）或许是第57街南侧最引人注目的租户了。虽然它的确富丽堂皇、人气很高，但也不足以为整条街打出名号。
The north side, in contrast, is a murderers’ row of luxe, including Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Dior, Saint Laurent, and Bergdorf’s.
第57街的北侧则截然不同。这里充斥着世界顶级的奢侈品店，其中包括路易威登(Louis Vuitton)、香奈儿、迪奥(Dior)、圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)和波道夫·古德曼(Bergdorf Goodman)。
Meanwhile, the long-overlooked western section of 57th is undergoing a big makeover, real estate agents say. Nordstrom will open a 285,000-square-foot space between Broadway and Seventh in 2018, and Viceroy Hotels and Resorts and Quin are opening hotels there this fall.
与此同时，长久以来被忽视的第57街西侧的面貌，也正在发生重大改变。房地产经纪人说。诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)将于2018年在百老汇和第七大道之间开设一家占地285000平方英尺（约合26477平方米）的店面，总督酒店和度假村(Viceroy Hotels and Resorts)以及奎恩酒店(Quin)也将于今年秋落户第57街。
First, Second and Third Avenues, uptown
第一、第二和第三大道，住宅区(First, Second and Third Avenues, uptown)
A revival is occurring on Third Avenue. “When the market crashed, you could throw a bowling ball down Third Avenue in the 60s, low 70s, which had gotten somewhat hot,” Ms. Kurland said. Prices have been inching up to about $250 a square foot.
第三大道正在复苏。“当初市场下跌时，你简直可以沿着第三大道上门牌在60几到70出头的地段打保龄球，”库尔兰说。而如今，这里已经出现回暖迹象，铺租慢慢上涨到了大约每平方英尺250美元（约合每平方米人民币16900元）。
That is thanks in part to Bloomingdale’s — the closer to Bloomie’s, the higher the rents, Mr. Trump said — and in large part to the Second Avenue subway construction one street away.
第三大道之所以在复苏，部分是由于布鲁明黛百货公司(Bloomingdale)的带动。离这家百货公司越近的铺面，铺租就越高，特朗普说。而更主要的原因是，仅仅一个街区之隔的第二大道上正在修地铁。
“Oh, it’s a mess, it’s such a mess there,” Ms. Consolo said. “It’s disrupted rental life, retail life, so it’s not only hurt accessibility, but it’s completely destroyed visibility, and you’ve had a lot of stores closing. I could say that you could almost give away the locations on Second. No one’s interested.” Rents, she said, have dropped to about $75 a square foot there.
“噢，那边很混乱，简直是全乱套了，”孔索洛说，“地铁施工完全打乱了周边商铺的出租和日常经营。因为它不仅削减了到达的客流，还把店铺的门面全毁了，于是很多商家纷纷关门歇业。可以这么说，你基本可以放弃第二大道上的地段了，没人会对那里感兴趣。”她说，那里的铺租已经跌到了每平方英尺75美元（约合每平方米人民币5066元）。
“The retail — it’s a nonstreet street now,” she said. “We don’t even talk about it.”
“对于零售商来说，第二大道现在跟无人区没什么区别了，”她说，“我们甚至都懒得提起它。”
First Avenue, or “the forgotten sister,” as Ms. Consolo called it, is reaping the benefits as retail shifts, she said.
而被孔索洛称为“被遗忘的姊妹”的第一大道，目前正因零售店铺租金行情的改变而坐收渔利。
Bleecker Street
布利克街(Bleecker Street)
Between Bank and Christopher Streets, Bleecker’s blocks of boutiques still unsettle those who cling to the West Village’s reputation as Bob Dylan territory. Starting a decade ago, “I made deals on Bleecker on the best blocks, Ralph and everybody,” Ms. Consolo said, referring to Ralph Lauren, “for $75 a foot, and now I’m making deals for like $600 a foot.” Retailers like the European feel and small scale of Bleecker, she said, and the fact that “you’re a big fish, you stick out.”
布利克街地处银行街(Bank Street)和克里斯托弗街(Christopher Street)之间，这里成片的精品店依然诱惑着那些慕名前往西村（West Village，位于曼哈顿格林尼治村的西部——译注）朝圣的人——要知道，西村素有“鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)大本营”的美名。从十年前起，“我就已经把布利克街最好的街区租给拉夫和很多其他人了，”孔索洛说，她所说的“拉夫”是指拉夫·劳伦，“当时的铺租是每平方英尺75美元（约合每平方米人民币5066元），而现在我经手的租约差不多达到每平方英尺600美元（约合每平方米人民币40567元）了。”布利克街具有欧洲风情，规模也比较小，因此深得零售商的青睐，她说，而且他们还喜欢一个事实，“正因你是条大鱼，才能一直在这生存。”
The Meatpacking District
肉库区（Meatpacking District，最初以肉类加工仓库闻名，如今已成为繁华的时尚街区——译注）
The once-popular neighborhood is slipping a bit. With few zoning restrictions, it became a night-life destination. And while designers like Alexander McQueen and Stella McCartney tried opening stores there, they have moved out and are being replaced by more mass-appeal brands. “You have, like, Uggs and Patagonia, tenants like that,” Ms. Kurland said. “They’re good tenants, but tenants that you would find in every urban setting and in malls.”
这里曾经是一片很旺的街区，如今稍有掉价。由于没有什么分区上的限制，此地已成为繁华的夜生活区。虽然亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)、斯特拉·麦卡特尼(Stella McCartney)曾试图在此开店，但都已搬走，取而代之的是更加大众化的品牌。“现在来租店面的都是Ugg、巴塔哥尼亚(Patagonia)这种档次的品牌，”库尔兰说，“它们也不失为好租户，但这种品牌大街小巷到处都是，商场里也有。”
“There’s a lot of space on the market down there now, where there hadn’t been,” she said, and “it hasn’t done well for the luxury brands.”
“肉库区的店铺租赁市场中目前还有很多空置店面，这种情况以前还没出现过，”库尔兰说，“以前奢侈品牌在这里开店，生意是不太好。”
Still, rents were about $366 a square foot in the second quarter of 2013, up about 3.4 percent from the first quarter, according to CBRE.
不过，根据世邦魏理仕的调查，2013年二季度，这里的租金依然达到了每平方英尺366美元（约合每平方米人民币24744元），比一季度上涨了3.4%左右。