Peter Baker, the chief White House correspondent for The New York Times, had a problem. He was hosting a party whose guests included a bipartisan group of former White House staffers, and there wasn’t enough ice. While he was driving to the store, his phone rang. It was his wife, the journalist Susan Glasser. “Don’t worry, I’m getting the ice,” he told her. “No, no, no, you don’t understand,” she said. “The president just fired the F.B.I. director.”
彼得·贝克(Peter Baker)——《纽约时报》的首席白宫记者——遇到了一个问题。当时他正在举办一个聚会，客人包括一群两党的前白宫工作人员，这时冰不够了。他开车去商店买冰，这时他的手机响了。是他的妻子、记者苏珊·格拉瑟(Susan Glasser)。“别担心，我正在去买冰，”他对她说。“不，不，不，你没明白，”她说，“总统刚刚解雇了联邦调查局(FBI)局长。”
He returned, bag of ice in hand, to a room full of White House veterans, Democrat and Republican, stunned by the news. “It was striking to have all these people, very experienced people in Washington, there in that moment,” he said, “mouths agape, trying to process what had just happened and what it might mean.” He excused himself from his own party and ran upstairs to write.
他拿着一袋冰回到家，看到一屋子的白宫资深工作人员——既有民主党人，也有共和党人——都被这个消息惊呆了。“那一刻真是很惊人，看着这些华盛顿的资深人士，”他说，“张着嘴巴，试图消化刚刚发生的事情，以及这可能意味着什么。”他离开自己的聚会，跑上楼写稿。
There was no indication that the May 9 firing of the F.B.I. chief, James B. Comey, had been coming. The White House correspondent Michael D. Shear broke the news for The Times, as he happened to be at the White House that afternoon to run an errand. When Sean Spicer, then the president’s press secretary, appeared in the almost-empty briefing room to announce the news, Mr. Shear sent an email to The Times’s Washington bureau from his phone: Comey fired. “It was all on the fly,” he said. “In a different White House, it would be mapped out to the nth degree.”
去年5月9日FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)被解职，是没有任何征兆的。白宫记者迈克尔·D·希尔(Michael D. Shear)为时报报道了这个消息，因为那天下午他碰巧去白宫办事。时任总统新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)出现在几乎空无一人的新闻发布厅宣布这个消息时，希尔用手机给时报的华盛顿分社发了封邮件：科米被解职了。“一切都是突发的，”他写道。“换在另一个白宫，这种事早就事无巨细都安排好了。”
For the journalists who have covered the first year of Donald J. Trump’s presidency, such episodes have come to be expected. “It’s relentless, the unpredictability of it,” said Elisabeth Bumiller, the Washington bureau chief. “I knew it would be really wild and different, but I expected him to be somewhat different than the candidate Trump, and he really hasn’t been.”
对于负责报道唐纳德·J·特朗普总统任期第一年的记者来说，这类事件在意料之中。“这种不可预测性是常态，”华盛顿分社社长伊丽莎白·布米勒(Elisabeth Bumiller)说。“我知道情况会十分狂乱，不同于以往；我以为他会跟竞选时有所不同，但他并没有。”
“I think he just fundamentally doesn’t understand what the White House press corps does,” added the White House correspondent Maggie Haberman, “because the press he’s used to interacting with” — business, celebrity and tabloid coverage — “is so different.”
“我觉得他根本不明白白宫记者团是干什么的，”白宫记者玛吉·哈伯曼(Maggie Haberman)说，“因为他所熟悉的媒体”——商业、名人和小报报道——“跟这太不一样了”。
The early days of the administration, a period usually marked by a steep learning curve for a new White House staff, were especially chaotic. When Mr. Trump’s first travel ban was issued, on Jan. 27, administration officials “couldn’t even tell which countries it was,” Mr. Shear said. “They were putting on a good face, but they had no idea what was going on.” The White House correspondent Julie Hirschfeld Davis asked three officials that evening whether the ban affected green card holders, and received three different answers. “There were no talking points, so they didn’t know what to say,” she said. “Some of them were guessing, some of them were afraid to guess.”
新政府初期尤为混乱，这段时间对全新的白宫工作人员班底来说，通常会有一个高强度的学习过程。希尔说，去年1月27日，特朗普首次发布旅行禁令时，政府官员“甚至不知道哪些国家被禁”，“他们一幅若无其事的样子，但他们不知道正在发生什么情况”。白宫记者朱莉·赫希菲尔德·戴维斯(Julie Hirschfeld Davis)当晚向三名官员询问，该禁令是否影响绿卡持有者，她得到了三个不同的答案。“没有谈话要点，所以他们不知道该说什么，”她说。“他们中有些人是在猜测，也有人不敢乱猜。”
The White House has settled into more of a rhythm in recent months, according to several Times journalists who cover it, a shift they attributed in part to personnel changes — particularly the replacement of Mr. Spicer with Sarah Huckabee Sanders and of Reince Priebus, the former chief of staff, with John F. Kelly. The bureau, too, has adjusted. In response to the president’s early-morning Twitter habit, for example, reporters and editors are on duty at 6 each morning. And the bureau’s staff has grown from about 70 people in November 2016 to more than 100 now.
据几名负责报道白宫的时报记者称，近几个月，白宫找到了一些行事的节奏，他们认为这部分归因于人事变动——尤其是萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)取代了斯派塞，以及约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)取代了前幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)。时报的华盛顿分社也相应地做了些调整。例如，为了应对总统清晨发推的习惯，分社安排了记者和编辑每天早上6点值班。该分社的工作人员已经从2016年11月的约70人增长到了现在的100多人。
Still, much of the unpredictability that has characterized this administration cannot be compensated for — it is a function of the president himself. “There isn’t some secret sauce to covering him,” said Ms. Haberman. “He’s incredibly unusual. He’d never run for office before and he won the presidency. This is a strange moment in history. He has no familiarity with the government that he oversees. I cannot describe how strange this all is. Sometimes you just have to show and not tell.”
但是，这并不能完全应付这届政府引以为特色的不可预测性——这是总统本人的一项功能。“报道总统没有什么秘密武器，”哈伯曼说。“他极其不寻常。此前他从未竞选公职，现在他当了总统。这是历史上一个奇怪的时刻。他对自己掌管的这个政府毫不熟悉。我都无法形容这一切有多么奇怪。有时候你只能是向人们展示，而非讲述。”
When Mr. Trump sat down with the Washington correspondent Michael S. Schmidt for an impromptu interview last month, not even the president’s staff knew it was coming. The interview itself would have been unthinkable in prior administrations. Mr. Trump, however, often seems to enjoy engaging with journalists, whether or not his staff would like him to.
上月特朗普与本报驻华盛顿记者迈克尔·S·施密特(Michael S. Schmidt)坐在一起进行一场即兴采访时，就连总统的幕僚都不知道会有这回事。要是换在之前的政府里，这样的采访是难以想象的。而特朗普常常看上去很享受与记者接触，不论幕僚们是否愿意他这么做。
The unpredictability is compounded by the president’s unprecedented obfuscation and denial of facts, and by offensive off-the-cuff comments like those he reportedly made last week in a White House meeting, all of which can leave his staff scrambling to defend the seemingly indefensible. Still, Ms. Davis said, “In a lot of ways, they have embraced the chaos, and understood on some level that it keeps the press off balance, and that’s where any White House likes the press to be.”
总统前所未有的不知所云和否认事实，以及如上周据说的那样，在一场白宫会议上发表的冒犯性即兴评论，都加重了这种不可预测性。而这都会让他的幕僚们连滚带爬地去为这些看似无法辩解的行为辩解。但戴维斯表示，“在很多方面，他们已经接受了这种混乱，并且在某种程度上认识到这能使媒体失去平衡，而这正是每一届美国政府都想看到的。
Although Mr. Trump has avoided traditional news conferences, he has developed a habit of stopping to speak with reporters on the White House lawn before boarding Marine One — and of going off-script at events, as he did in October, when an appearance with Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, turned into a freewheeling 45-minute question-and-answer session. And then there are, of course, the tweets.
特朗普避开了传统的新闻发布会，但他形成了一个在登上海军陆战队一号(Marine One)之前驻足于白宫草坪与记者交谈的习惯——还有在一些场合的即兴发挥，正如他在10月份做的那样，把一个与参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)的短暂露面变成了45分钟的随性问答环节。当然，还有那些推文。
The result, Mr. Shear said, is that despite the anarchic nature of covering Mr. Trump, “we know so much more about what this president is thinking at any given moment than we ever did with Obama. Just because he wears it on his sleeve, and he tells us.”
希尔表示，结果就是，尽管报道特朗普时自带一种无章可循的特性，“在任何时候，我们对这位总统的心中所想，都要比我们对奥巴马了解的多得多。就是因为他把一切都摆在了台面上，会告诉我们。”
That includes Mr. Trump’s professed feelings about the “failing New York Times,” as he often calls it. “I think he wants validation, and that he feels angry when he doesn’t feel like he’s getting the respect he deserves from the paper,” Mr. Baker said.
这还包括特朗普对常被他称为“快不行了的纽约时报”(failing New York Times)公开表达的看法。“我想他是想要得到认可，而当他感觉报纸没有给予应得的尊重时，他就会生气，”贝克说。
“It’s all politics,” Ms. Bumiller said. “We’re sort of amused by it now.”
“这都是政治，”布米勒说。“我们现在觉得还挺好玩的。”