Follow that pungent smell wafting along a bustling stretch of Grand Street to the sidewalk booth of Jay Fan, the durian man of Chinatown.
跟随空气中飘荡的刺激性气味，你能从格兰大街(Grand Street)的繁华地段来到在中国城卖榴莲的范杰（音译）的路边摊上。
“If you ask anyone in Chinatown about durian, they will tell you to come to me,” Mr. Fan said in Chinese, through a translator.
“如果你想买榴莲，中国城里随便哪个人都会让你来找我，”范用中文说道。翻译把他的话转达给了我。
And if you do have to ask, you have clearly never tasted — or been within sniffing distance of — this pungent fruit from Southeast Asia known for its unique taste, strong odor and premium price.
如果你真的需要问别人，那很明显你从没吃过或闻过这种气味浓烈的东南亚水果，它以独特的味道、强烈的气味和昂贵的价格而闻名。
If that’s the case, see Mr. Fan, 40, who may be the best-known durian seller in Manhattan’s Chinatown. He has run a stall outside a pharmacy at the corner of the Bowery for 15 years.
如果你真没吃过，可以到范先生的摊上看一看。40岁的范先生可能是曼哈顿中国城最知名的榴莲卖家。他在鲍厄里(Bowery)街角的一个药店门外经营水果摊已有15年了。
“It’s like ice cream, but more expensive,” said Mr. Fan, who scrawls the current rates on cardboard box tops for display. This time of year, the price ranges from $20 to $45 per fruit.
“它像冰激凌，但是更贵，”范说。他把目前的价格潦草地标在纸箱上面。在这个季节，每个榴莲的价格在20美元至45美元之间。
Mr. Fan has his regulars, emerging from the nearby underground mah-jongg parlors for their fix. There are curious tourists from the Best Western across the street. Some people call in advance to have their durian cut and ready by the time they pull up for a drive-by purchase.
范有一些常客，他们从附近的地下麻将馆来这里大饱口福。 也有来自街对面“最佳西方”(Best Western)酒店的好奇游客。有些人提前打电话，让范把榴莲切好，等他们开车经过的时候，可以直接拿走。
The local Chinese immigrants are his main customers, but there are also many vacationers who seek him out specifically, since the reputation of his sidewalk stand has spread.
当地的中国移民是他的主要顾客，但是也有很多度假的人专门来找他，因为他的路边摊的名声已经传开了。
“A lot of people take videos of me cutting the durian, and put it online,” he said. “So I get people from all over the world coming to find me. They tell me, ‘I saw you on YouTube.’ ”
“很多人把我切榴莲的过程录下来，放到网上，”他说，“所以会有世界各地的人来找我。他们跟我说，‘我在YouTube上看到了你。’”
Mr. Fan, who lives with his wife and three children in Coney Island, Brooklyn, rarely takes a day off.
范和他的妻子以及三个孩子住在布鲁克林的科尼岛。他几乎每天都营业。
He grew up “a street kid,” he said, in Hong Kong, where his parents ran a small market — now they sell fruit on the sidewalk next to his stall — and he came to New York at age 20. He soon saw what a hit durian was in Chinatown.
他说自己在香港长大，是“街头儿童”，他父母在那里经营一个小市场。现在他父母在他旁边的摊位卖水果。他20岁来到纽约，很快就发现榴莲在中国城很受欢迎。
The fruit even led him to his wife, who was sent to his stand by her durian-crazed sister. At the wedding, the sister-in-law demanded a lifetime’s supply, “as her commission,” said Mr. Fan, who supplies his daughter’s cravings, too. The smell from a freshly opened durian in the kitchen travels to her bedroom and wakes her up in the morning, he said.
榴莲甚至让他碰到了自己的妻子。他妻子的姊妹特别喜欢吃榴莲，所以让她来他这儿买榴莲。范说，在婚礼上，他妻子的姊妹要求他一辈子给她提供榴莲，“作为谢礼”。他还满足了女儿的各种渴望——早上厨房里新切开的榴莲香味会飘进她的卧室，把她叫醒。
Newcomers are attracted by the crowd or the sight or the smell of these prickly things, as was Lawrence Dowd, 38, a construction contractor who happened by on Wednesday, squinted at the exotic fruit and asked, “What do you got here?”
初来乍到的人会被人群以及这些多刺物品的形状或味道所吸引。38岁的劳伦斯·多德(Lawrence Dowd)是个工程承包商，周三碰巧从这里经过。他眯着眼看着这些奇怪的水果，问道：“你这是什么东西？”
On impulse — “I like to try new things” — Mr. Dowd dropped $29 on a Malaysian durian of modest size, whose firm consistency and sharp, onionlike tang makes it more expensive than the larger and sweeter Thai durians, Mr. Fan said.
多德“喜欢尝试新鲜事物”，一时冲动花29美元买了个中等大小的马来西亚榴莲。范说，马来西亚榴莲口感浓稠，有着强烈的、洋葱似的刺激气味，因此比更大、更甜的泰国榴莲要昂贵。
Mr. Fan took a paring knife with a short blade and cut the greenish, thorny husk, handling the fruit with his sandpaper palms. A series of precise incisions revealed pockets of fleshy fruit, which he then scooped out ceremoniously with a pair of spoons into a foam container. He handed Mr. Dowd a plastic spoon.
范用砂纸般的手掌按住榴莲，用短刃削皮刀切开绿色、多刺的外壳。一连串精准的切口让榴莲的果肉露了出来，然后用一对勺子小心翼翼地把果肉舀到橡胶容器里，然后递给多德一个塑料小勺。
“Tastes like caramel,” Mr. Dowd said.
“吃起来像奶糖，”多德说。
Mr. Fan said, “It’s addictive — I have people who come every other day.”
范说，“这东西让人上瘾——很多顾客隔一天就要来买一次。”
With supply drying up during the summer, Mr. Fan keeps two large Sub-Zero freezers filled and locked in the back of a nearby clandestine mah-jongg parlor.
夏季榴莲易干，所以范在附近的秘密麻将馆的后面藏了两个很大的零度以下的冷冻箱，里面装满了榴莲。
He displays a sign warning customers about competing vendors who put premium labels on lesser-grade durians. They are no different than those Canal Street vendors selling knockoff designer watches and handbags, Mr. Fan fumed, adding: “They charge $40 for an $8 durian. It’s like selling used cars.”
他摆出了一个警示牌，警告顾客有些商贩给不够好的榴莲标出高价。范愤怒地说，他们和运河街上那些卖冒牌手表和手包的商贩没什么差别。他补充说：“8美元的榴莲他们卖40美元。就像在卖旧汽车。”
For takeout customers, Mr. Fan uses a device to seal the container in plastic, because of the durian’s smell, which is fragrant or disgusting, depending upon whom you ask. In much of Southeast Asia, the fruit is barred from many public spaces.
范用一种设备把外卖的容器用塑料薄膜密封起来，因为虽然有人觉得榴莲气味芳香，也有人觉得它的味道让人作呕。在东南亚的很多地方，很多公共场所都禁止人们携带这种水果。
“One of my customers, her husband waits across the street while she eats it,” Mr. Fan said. Then there is the doctor down the street who dares not bring the fruit into his own office, he said.
“我的一个顾客在这儿吃榴莲的时候，她丈夫在街对面等她，”范说。他还说，这条街上有个医生不敢把这种水果带进自己的办公室。
On Wednesday, Josephine Wong, 31, from Brooklyn, bought a $40 durian for her grandmother, a Chinese immigrant visiting from a durian-starved section of Oklahoma.
周三，来自布鲁克林的31岁的约瑟芬·王给她的祖母买了一个40美元的榴莲。她祖母是个华裔，从俄克拉荷马州来，那里没有榴莲。
Heading to the subway with her fragrant fruit, Ms. Wong said, “Maybe it will help me get a seat.”
王带着芳香的水果向地铁走去。她说：“也许它的味道能帮我弄个座位。”
But then there are customers who, upon disliking the smell and failing to get a refund, have called the police, Mr. Fan said. Once, a van full of officers pulled up and surrounded the booth. Mr. Fan got nervous until one said, “So what is this stuff?”
范说，有些顾客不喜欢榴莲的气味，当得知不能退货时，还给警察打电话。有一次，一辆警车停了下来，好几个警察从车里下来，围住了摊铺。范很紧张，直到有个警察问：“这到底是什么东西？”
They wound up buying some — at a slight discount, he acknowledged — and the next day, one of the officers returned, not for seconds, but for an order for the captain.
最后他们买了一些，他承认给他们打了点折。第二天，其中一个警察又来了，不是给自己，而是给他们的队长买的。
Mr. Fan smiled proudly and said, “You see? It’s expensive for a reason.”
范骄傲地笑道，“你看，贵是有原因的。”