WHEN I was in eighth grade, in Queens, in the early 2000s, I was often picked on by other children for my almond-shaped eyes, beige complexion and jet-black hair — essentially, my Chinese face. They’d ask me if I ate vermin and felines and constantly mocked my native language. These adolescent experiences planted within me seeds of self-hatred, and for years I tried to rid myself of my cultural heritage.
我在皇后区上八年级的时候是21世纪初，那时我经常会遭到其他孩子的捉弄，原因是我的杏仁眼、米色皮肤和漆黑的头发——实际上是我的中国面孔。他们问我是不是吃虫子和猫，经常嘲笑我的母语。这些青春期的经历让我埋下了自我憎恨的种子，多年来，我一直努力摆脱自己的文化传统。
So it is interesting that the first real photos I ever took were in Manhattan’s Chinatown, which I spent my adolescence avoiding. But it was in that neighborhood where I began to appreciate the hard work of immigrants and the sacrifices they made to be here. I then traveled west and saw the early Chinese-American settlements in Locke, Calif., and met relatives who traced their lives in this country to the Transcontinental Railroad. The more I experienced, the more I felt empowered to accept myself as a Chinese-American.
有趣的是，我第一张真正的照片，就是在我整个青春期都在回避的曼哈顿华埠拍摄的。但正是在华埠，我开始意识到移民的辛苦劳作，以及他们为了移民而做出的牺牲。然后我向西前进，在加利福尼亚州洛克看到了华人最早聚居的地点。我也见到了一些亲戚，他们居住在美国的历史可以追溯到修建“横贯大陆铁路线”(Transcontinental Railroad)的时代。我经历的越多，感觉就越有力量来接纳自己华裔美国人的身份。
My great-grandfather Gee Goon arrived in America in the early 1900s and traveled from Angel Island in San Francisco Bay to Quincy, Mass. I feel as if I made a similar journey. These photos explore what the Chinese-American identity is, a coming-of-age story about the merging of two, sometimes polarizing, cultures. As I used art to understand our place and contributions in the country’s social landscape, I noticed something else. From the older gentlemen who roam the streets of Chinatown to the young women learning to balance family, school and love, the moments I capture represent not just the story of Chinese-Americans, but that of all American people.
20世纪初，我的曾祖父管志（Gee Goon，音）抵达美国，从旧金山湾的天使岛来到马萨诸塞州昆西。我觉得自己也进行了一趟类似的旅程。这些照片对华裔美国人的身份进行了探索，讲述了融合这两种时而大相径庭的文化，并走向成熟的故事。由于我是在用艺术理解我们在美国社会版图中所处的位置及所做的贡献，我注意到了一些其他东西。从在华埠街头漫步的老先生，到学着在家庭、学业和爱情之间寻求平衡的年轻女性，我所捕获的一个个瞬间，不仅讲述了华裔美国人的故事，也讲述了所有美国人的故事。