Kira Milas has no idea who called 911, summoning an ambulance filled with emergency medical technicians. Ms. Milas, 23, was working as a swim instructor for the summer and had swum into the side of the pool, breaking three teeth.
基拉·米拉斯(Kira Milas)不知道谁拨打了911电话，叫来了坐满急救医护人员的救护车。23岁的米拉斯今年夏天担任了游泳教练，她游到泳池边时，磕断了三颗牙齿。
Shaken, she accepted the ambulance ride to Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. The paramedics applied a neck brace as a precaution.
尽管有所动摇，她还是答应乘坐救护车，前往加利福尼亚州拉霍亚的斯克里普斯纪念医院(Scripps Memorial Hospital)。医护人员给她戴上了颈托以防意外。
A week later she received a bill for the 15-minute trip: $1,772.42. Though her employer’s workers’ compensation will cover the bill, she still was stunned at the charge. “We only drove nine miles and it was a non-life-threatening injury,” she said in a phone interview. “I needed absolutely no emergency treatment.”
一个星期后，她收到了这趟15分钟行程的账单：1772.42美元。尽管她雇主提供的工伤赔偿将支付账单，她依然对这笔费用感到震惊。她在接受电话采访时说，“我们只行驶了9英里，并没有危及生命的伤势。我绝对不需要接受紧急治疗。”
Thirty years ago ambulance rides were generally provided free of charge, underwritten by taxpayers as a municipal service or provided by volunteers. Today, like the rest of the health care system in the United States, most ambulance services operate as businesses and contribute to America’s escalating medical bills. Often, they are a high-cost prequel to expensive emergency room visits.
30年前，救护车送病人到医院一般都是免费的，费用由纳税人承担，列为市政服务项目，或者由志愿人员提供服务。如今，像美国医疗保健系统的其他层面一样，大部分救护车服务都是商业运作，导致美国的医疗费用急剧上升。通常情况下，病人先乘坐一趟费用不低的救护车，再接受昂贵的急诊室治疗。
Although ambulances are often requested by a bystander or summoned by 911 dispatchers, they are almost always billed to the patient involved. And the charges, as well as insurance coverage, range widely, from zero to tens of thousands of dollars.
尽管救护车通常是路人或911调度员代为召来，不过账单几乎总是寄给病人。这些费用及保险覆盖范围各不相同，从免费到高达数万美元不等。
“There are a significant numbers of patients who have no coverage for this, and the number of self-pay patients has climbed” since the recession, said Jay Fitch, president of Fitch and Associates, the largest emergency medical services consulting firm in the United States.
全美最大的紧急医疗服务咨询公司费奇合伙公司(Fitch and Associates)的总裁杰·费奇(Jay Fitch)表示，“很多病人的医疗保险不包含这笔费用，经济衰退以来，自掏腰包付救护车费用的病人数量持续攀升。”
What is more, since ambulances companies typically collect only 30 to 40 percent of the amount they bill, they often try to charge more for patients with insurance and those who can pay, Mr. Fitch said.
费奇说，更重要的是，由于救护车公司通常只能收到账单总额的30%到40%，他们往往向拥有医疗保险或支付能力的病人收取更多的费用。
Part of the inconsistency in pricing stems from the fact that ambulance services are variously run by fire departments, hospitals, private companies and volunteer groups. Some services are included in insurance networks, others not.
收费不同的部分原因是救护车服务由消防部门、医院、私人企业和志愿团体等不同机构经营。有些服务包含在保险范围内，有些则没有。
“There’s a saying that if you’ve seen one emergency medical system, you’ve seen one emergency medical system — no two are alike,” said Dr. Robert E. O’Connor, a vice president of the American College of Emergency Medicine and chairman of the department at the University of Virginia. Charges and payments, he said, “are all over the place.” Fire departments, which don’t charge for driving to fire alarms, do charge for ambulance runs.
美国急诊医学会(American College of Emergency Medicine)副会长、弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)急诊系主任罗伯特·奥康纳(Robert E. O’Connor)表示，“有种说法是，如果你看到一个紧急医疗系统，你就只能了解这一种——没有两个系统完全一样。”他说，收费及付款“混乱不堪”。消防部门不会收取火警救援的费用，却为救护车运送病人而收费。
In such a fragmented system, it is hard to know how much high-priced ambulance transport contributes nationally to America’s $2.7 trillion health care bill. And total out-of-pocket expenditures by individuals are hard to tally.
在这个支离破碎的医疗体系中，人们很难知道全国范围的高价救护车运送服务在美国2.7万亿美元的医疗保健费用中占了多少比例。现金支付的费用总额难以统计。
But Medicare, the insurance program for the elderly, does tabulate its numbers and has become alarmed at its fast-rising expenditures for ambulance rides: nearly $6 billion a year, up from just $2 billion in 2002.
不过，为老年人提供保险计划的联邦医疗保险(Medicare)列出了具体数字，该计划快速增长的救护车服务费用让人感到担忧：全年近60亿美元，远远高于2002年的近20亿美元。
That is true even though Medicare’s fixed payments for ambulance rides — ranging from $289 to $481 in 2011 — are far lower than commercial rates. Ambulance companies complain that Medicare rates do not meet the costs of running what are essentially mobile emergency rooms staffed by highly trained professionals.
事实上，尽管联邦医疗保险为救护车服务支付固定费用——2011年为289美元到481美元——依然远远低于商业保险费用。救护车公司抱怨说，联邦医疗保险支付的费用不能满足运营成本，救护车从本质上来说是移动的急诊室，配备了训练有素的专业人员。
In a recent study, the federal Health and Human Services Department’s Office of the Inspector General noted that the Medicare ambulance services were “vulnerable to abuse and fraud,” in part because there were lax standards on when an ambulance was needed and how the trip should be billed. The number of transports paid for by Medicare increased 69 percent between 2002 and 2011, while the number of Medicare patients increased only 7 percent during that period. In the last year, two ambulance companies have pleaded guilty or settled claims for overbilling Medicare.
在最近的研究中，联邦卫生及公共服务部(Health and Human Services Department)监察长办公室指出，联邦医疗保险救护车服务“容易受到滥用和欺诈的影响”，一方面是因为救护车服务必要性和行程计费方式的宽松标准。从2002年到2011年，联邦医疗保险付费的救护车服务次数增加了69%，而在此期间联邦医疗保险的参保病人数量仅增加了7%。去年，有两家救护车公司因虚报联邦医疗保险费用而认罪或进行赔偿。
The Affordable Care Act requires policies to include some coverage for emergency care as an essential benefit, including ambulance transport. But the ambulance ride and the care are billed separately. Many Silver plans — a lower-tier plan — require patients to pay an initial copay of $250 for the emergency room and $250 more for the transport, for example.
《平价医疗法案》(Affordable Care Act)要求医疗保险把紧急医疗作为基本医疗服务纳入覆盖范围，包括救护车运送病人。但是救护车服务和医疗护理要分开计费。比如说，许多“银色计划”(Silver plans)——低档次保险计划——要求病人支付250美元的急诊室自付医疗费和250美元的救护车费用。
Every insurance plan evaluates ambulance rides differently for coverage, with many seeking to determine if the service was really needed — a true “emergency.”
各种医疗保险计划对救护车服务的保险范围有不同的评估，许多保险计划会设法确定这项服务是否确有必要——是否为真正的“紧急情况”。
That determination can be highly subjective. Some will grant coverage if the destination was an emergency room, regardless of the patient’s status, but others may require admittance to the hospital as evidence that the condition was serious. “Insurers will generally cover if you had good reason to believe there was a serious threat to your life or health,” said Susan Pisano, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry group.
这种评估可能非常主观。无论患者的病情如何，如果救护车的目的地是急诊室，有些保险计划会支付这笔费用，不过有些保险计划可能需要入院记录作为紧急情况的证据。行业组织美国医疗保险计划(America’s Health Insurance Plans)女发言人苏珊·皮萨诺(Susan Pisano)说，“保险公司通常会支付这笔费用，前提是你有充分的理由相信，出现了严重威胁到你的生命或健康的情况。”
But when an ambulance arrives, sick patients or injured people like Ms. Milas, often feel they have little choice but to get in, unaware of the potential price tag.
但是在救护车到达时，虚弱的病人或像米拉斯这样受伤的患者经常觉得自己别无选择，只能登上救护车，却不知道可能支付的费用。
If an emergency call comes to 911, dispatchers decide which ambulance to send, depending on proximity. Most ambulance companies bill according to the level of skill of the team on board, rather than the medical needs of the patients they collect. A team capable of administering Advanced Cardiac Life Support costs more than one with only basic first aid training.
如果救护车是911代为召来，调度员会根据距离远近派出救护车。大多数救护车公司的服务费用都是根据急救团队的技术水平而定，并不是取决于他们收治患者的医疗需求。能够提供高级生命支持的急救团队，费用高于那些只受过基本急救培训的医护人员。
Distance rarely counts for much, although a small mileage charge is added to the fee. Some companies even charge hundreds of dollars extra if a friend or relative rides along with an injured patients.
救护车行驶的距离并不重要，不过小额里程费也会计算进来。如果有亲友陪同受伤患者乘坐救护车，有些公司甚至会额外收取数百美元的费用。
This fall, Joanne Freedman went to an urgent care center near her home in New York City with a bad headache and a fever. The doctor recommended she go to a hospital for further evaluation and offered to call an ambulance.
今年秋天，家住纽约市的乔安妮·弗里德曼(Joanne Freedman)因剧烈头痛和发烧，来到她家附近的急救中心就诊。医生建议她去医院做进一步诊断，并提出帮她打电话叫救护车。
“I could have walked, but I’m feeling crummy so I think, ' OK, why not?’ ” she recalled.
她回忆说，“我本来可以自己走路，不过我觉得很不舒服，所以我就想，‘好吧，为什么不呢？’”
The two-block ride was billed at $900, and she has not yet learned what her insurer may ask her to pay.
救护车行驶了两个街区，为她带来了900美元的账单，而她还不知道保险公司要她自付多少费用。
“It was crazy,” she said. “All they did was put a paper mask on me so I wouldn’t infect anyone else.” Ms. Freedman had a spinal tap at the hospital and was admitted for a few days. Nonetheless, she said, for $900, the next time, no matter how ill she will walk up the hill or take a cab.
她说，“这简直是疯了。他们只是让我戴了个纸口罩，以免我传染他人。”弗里德曼女士在医院接受了腰椎穿刺，住了几天院。不过，提到这900美元的费用，她说下次无论自己病得多么厉害，都会步行去医院，或者乘坐出租车。