After a seemingly endless winter, the first hints of spring have teased us with a day or two of temperatures over 60 degrees. That fleeting glimpse of warmth sent many New Yorkers flying out of doors to enjoy the sunshine. For my part, I sipped my morning coffee at home last week and stared wistfully out the window at a neighbor’s balcony.
熬过了看似永无止境的寒冬，我们迎来了第一抹春色，它撩拨着我们的心弦，带来了一两天超过60华氏度（约合16摄氏度）的日子。稍纵即逝的温暖天气，让许多纽约人夺门而出，跑到户外享受阳光。就我自己而言，上个星期的某天早晨，我待在家里，一边啜饮着咖啡，一边透过窗玻璃，忧伤地望着邻居家的阳台。
In our concrete jungle, there is a hefty dollar value attached to having your own garden oasis — even the smallest of shrubberies carries a price tag. And with so many residents suffering from a vitamin D deficiency these days, brokers are promoting listings that can claim specks of green, even if they’re barely large enough to hold a bonsai.
在钢筋混凝土的丛林里，能够拥有一座属于自己的花园绿洲，便是奇货可居了——即使是一片小得可怜的矮树丛也可以卖钱。而在居民们普遍缺乏维生素D的情况下，凡是带点绿意的房源都会被地产经纪人大力推销，即便这点绿意几乎连组成一个盆栽的规模都算不上。
Yet there are some listings for which the warmer weather was made.
不过，有些房源正是为温暖的天气准备的。
Downtown, the average price of a luxury condominium with a terrace is $8.3 million; that compares with just $6 million for those without terraces, according to Vanderbilt Appraisal. And developers are doing whatever they can to take advantage of that pricing edge.
在闹市区，带露台的奢华共管公寓均价在830万美元（约合人民币5156万元）；而不带露台的豪华共管公寓，均价只有600万美元（约合人民币3727万元）。这组数据源自地产估价公司Vanderbilt Appraisal。开发商正在想尽办法利用这样的价格优势。
The building at 56 Leonard Street in TriBeCa, for example, is a series of stacked boxes designed to allow nearly every unit an outdoor space. In the West Village, the developer of 150 Charles Street created several setbacks that feature enviable terraces. And at Walker Tower, the Chelsea conversion where prices have broken several downtown records, a unit that has a terrace is selling for a premium of more than 40 percent over comparable apartments without outdoor space, according to Vanderbilt.
比如，翠贝卡区的伦纳德街(Leonard Street)56号，从外形上看就像一摞箱子，这样设计是为了让几乎每个住宅单元都能拥有室外空间。而在西村，查尔斯街(Charles Street)150号有好几处采用了逐层收进的设计，形成了令人歆羡的露台空间。在切尔西的沃克大厦(Walker Tower)这座改建建筑，一套带露台的住宅单元与不带室外空间的同等公寓相比，售价高出了40%以上。上述数据也来自Vanderbilt。
The demand for outdoor space has grown so strong that in some instances, prices have exceeded the industry rule of thumb, which places outdoor space at 20 percent to 50 percent of the price of the interior square footage. Some terraces are trading for as much per square foot as the interior space, or even more.
人们对室外空间的需求增长强劲，以至于在某些情况下，房价已经超出了行规，室外空间的单位面积价格，达到了室内空间的20%到50%。有些露台的单位面积价格已经与室内空间齐平、甚至更高。
Rebecca I. Edwardson, an associate broker at Warburg Realty, created a database of several thousand apartment listings with terraces and rooftop gardens precisely because putting a price on outdoor space can be such a tricky endeavor.
瑞贝卡·I·爱德华森(Rebecca I. Edwardson)是房地产公司Warbury Realty的经纪人，她建立了一个数据库，记录了几千套带有露台和屋顶花园的公寓房源。之所以这样做，就是因为有时候给室外空间估价是件很难的事情。
“There are so many variables, most brokers don’t know how to price outdoor space,” she said. “They go into an apartment and say it feels like $5 million, but they don’t have any data to back that up.”
“变数太多了，大多数经纪人都不知该怎么给室外空间定价，”她说，“他们走进一套公寓，然后说，感觉可以卖500万美元（约合人民币3106万元）。但是他们没有任何数据作为参考。”
According to her research, up until last year, these spaces sold for roughly one-quarter to one-third the value of the interior space. An apartment priced at $1,000 a square foot, for example, would have a terrace valued at $250 to $330 a square foot. She has found, however, that among the new luxury condominiums going up across Manhattan at a quick clip, the price for outside space can rival the price of the interior space. At the recently completed 200 East 79th Street, for example, Ms. Edwardson estimated the value of a nearly 700-square-foot terrace at more than 100 percent of the value of the interior of its high-floor apartment. (For co-ops, she found that terraces remain priced at one-quarter to one-third the value of the interior space.)
根据她的调查，到去年为止，室外空间的售价大约是室内空间的四分之一或三分之一。比如，如果一套公寓的定价是每平方英尺1000美元（约合每平方米人民币69026元），那么露台的估价就是每平方英尺250美元到330美元（约合每平方米人民币17256元到22778元）。不过她发现，在曼哈顿迅猛增长的新建奢侈共管公寓中，室外空间的价格已可与室内空间相匹敌。比如，在最近完工的东79街200号，有一套高层公寓带有将近700平方英尺（约合65平方米）的露台。爱德华森估计，露台的估价已经超出了室内空间的估价（她还发现，就合作公寓而言，其露台价格仍维持在室内空间的四分之一到三分之一）。
One major reason for these price increases, Ms. Edwardson said, is that “a terrace buyer is an uncompromising buyer,” willing to pay more for what he or she wants. Many of them are foreigner buyers who see New York as a bargain, compared with cities in Europe and Asia.
爱德华森说，价格上涨的一个主要原因在于，“露台的买家立场都很坚定，”他们愿意为了想要的东西不计成本。其中许多是外国买家，他们认为在纽约买房比在欧洲或亚洲的城市买房更划算。
Ms. Edwardson was recently involved in the sale of a terrace property over which there was a fierce bidding war. The eventual winner was a foreign buyer who bid 30 percent more than comparable units were selling for. “I asked him why he bid so high,” she recalled, “and he said, the way he was looking at his finances — he is worth over $100 million — was that Europe was less of a safe place than New York and America, so he was shifting his assets here. And for him, to pay a little bit more in New York was actually a good bet, compared to what he would be paying in London or Hong Kong.”
爱德华森最近参与的一笔交易就涉及一套带露台的房源。数位买家开展了一场激烈的竞购战，最终是一名外国买家胜出，他的出价比同等住宅单元的售价高出30%。“我问他为什么出价那么高，”她回忆道，“他说，他给自己算了一笔账（他的身家超过1亿美元[约合人民币6亿元]），认为欧洲没有纽约和美国那么安全，所以在向这边转移资产。对他而言，在纽约多花点钱其实很划算，因为若是在伦敦或香港，他可能要花更多的钱。” 
But not all outdoor space is equal. Like so much in this city, there is a hierarchy to heed. On the lowest rung of the ladder is the balcony, typically a cantilevered concrete slab that hangs off the side of a building like a jutting lip; it is used more for bike storage than sunbathing. On the highest is the terrace, usually tucked in a building setback so it opens to the sky, and large enough to host a summer barbecue.
不过，并不是所有室外空间都在同一个档次上的，正如这个城市还有许多其它事物，也是分三六九等的。档次最低的是阳台(balcony)，一般的阳台就是一块无支柱的混凝土板，悬在建筑的一侧，看起来就像突出的嘴唇一样；人们一般在上面存放自行车，而不是晒日光浴。而档次最高的是露台(terrace)，一般设在逐层收进的外墙上，因而正对着天空，而且地方足够宽敞，夏天可以在上面烧烤。
Among terraces, the most sought after are directly accessible from the living room and have both helicopter views and privacy from the peering eyes of neighbors. Shape is also an issue. Wraparound types that stretch across more than one side of a building and offer multiple exposures are considered prime, followed by the square shapes that perfectly suit a dining table. And finally, there are the rectangular slivers that can barely hold potted peonies.
最抢手的露台包含以下几个要素：与起居室直接相连，既有居高临下的视野，又能保证隐私，不会被邻居看到。形状也很重要：最上等的是多面环绕式露台，能提供多个观景角度；正方形的次之，适合摆放餐桌；最下等的是极窄的矩形露台，几乎连盆栽的牡丹花都放不下。
Then there are other kinds of outdoor space: the rooftop garden is loved by some, although it is considered a notch below the terrace because of the inconvenience of having to walk up steps, while maisonettes offer ground-floor gardens that can be large but are often too dark, shadowed by the tall buildings that surround them.
此外，还有其它类型的室外空间：屋顶花园虽然受到部分买家的喜爱，但普遍而言，人们认为它还是比露台低一个档次的，因为上到屋顶就必须走楼梯，不太方便。双层公寓的一楼花园虽然空间可能很大，但往往又太暗，光线会被周围的高层建筑遮挡。
Although some buyers may have bottomless pockets when it comes to outdoor space, you can’t help but wonder, is it really worth it? When I was having that morning coffee last week, staring at the building across from me stacked with balconies, I noticed that several of them looked rather abandoned. In fact, the balcony nearest my window has spent the winter filled to the brim with an enormous pile of garbage bags stuffed with what appear to be clothes, along with a rather sad painting that has been warped by the deluge of snow.
虽然有些买家可能拥有雄厚的财力去购买室外空间，但有个问题不免令人疑惑，这样做是否真的值得？上个星期的某天早晨，我喝咖啡的时候，看着对面楼房层层叠叠的阳台。我注意到，有好几座阳台感觉就像是被废弃了一样。事实上，离我家窗户最近的那座阳台，今年整个冬天里都塞满了垃圾袋，袋子里似乎装着衣服。旁边还有一幅意境很伤感的画作，被厚厚的积雪压弯了。
Like so many symbols of wealth, it may be more in the having than in the using. At developments like 215 Sullivan Street, a Greenwich Village condominium built on the site of a preschool run by the Children’s Aid Society, owners don’t even have to care for their outdoor space. “Imagine having your own lushly landscaped backyard and you don’t even have to worry about the gardening work!” materials pitching the building read.
正如许多象征财富的事物一样，室外空间的价值，或许就在于拥有，而非使用。以苏利文街(Sullivan Street)215号这样的开发项目为例。这是格林尼治村的一座共管公寓，其建址原为儿童救助协会(Children’s Aid Society)运营的一家幼儿园。买房的人甚至不需要操心他们的室外空间。“您将拥有一座草木葱茏的后院，您甚至无需为园艺工作操心！”大楼的宣传材料如是写道。
The developer of 215 Sullivan Street hired Edmund Hollander, a well-known landscape designer, to create the outdoor spaces — roughly 60 percent of the units come with terraces or gardens — and spent “in the millions of dollars” to plant 25-foot adult trees and create lush floral arrangements that will be maintained by the building. “When a buyer comes to look at the unit, and they see that you have spent the time to finish it, it appeals,” said Raymond E. Chalme, the chief executive of Broad Street Development, the developer, “and when you are looking for $3,000 a foot, that is important.”
苏利文街215号的开发商，雇佣了知名园林设计师埃德蒙·霍兰德(Edmund Hollander)来设计室外空间——大约有60%的住宅单元带有露台或花园；同时还花费“数百万美元”，种植了一批高25英尺（约合7.6米）的成年树木，构造了花团锦簇的布景，其维护工作将由大楼管理方负责。“买家来看房时，就能看出，房子是我们精心打造出来的，具有打动人心的力量，”开发商Broad Street Development的首席执行官雷蒙德·E·查尔梅(Raymond E. Chalme)说，“如果你要找的是每平方英尺3000美元（约合每平方米人民币21万元）的房子，这一点就非常重要。”
With many of these new condominiums reaching skyward to unfathomable heights, there is also the question of whether you would really want to sit on a terrace 50 stories above the pavement. Recently while I was touring a penthouse in a 50-plus-story tower, I was too frightened even to approach the windows, let alone step onto the spacious terrace. With no point of reference outside except for the clouds, it gave the impression of being suspended in midair.
许多新建共管公寓的高度都已达到了不可思议的程度，这就引出了另一个问题：是否真的有人愿意坐在50层楼高的露台上？最近，我在一座50多层的楼房里看了一套顶层公寓。我当时太害怕了，连窗户都不敢靠近，更别提走到空阔的露台上去了。外面除了云朵以外，没有任何参照物，感觉就像浮在半空中。
Yet Rupert Murdoch, the billionaire chairman of the News Corporation, recently paid more than $57 million for the top four floors at One Madison, the new sliver of a tower on Madison Square Park. It is unclear whether he will actually ever live in the home and make use of its wraparound terrace, but it is crystal-clear that a mere mortal like me is not the target for such properties.
不过，新闻集团的亿万富豪董事长鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)最近斥资5700万美元（约合人民币3.5亿元），买下了One Madison内最高四层的顶层公寓。One Madison是麦迪逊广场公园(Madison Square Park)的一座新建大楼，外形狭长。我们不知道默多克会不会真的住进这套新房，使用它的环绕式露台；但显而易见的是，像我这样的凡夫俗子就不是这类房源的目标客户了。