AS Americans, we’ve been raised on the notion that any child could dream of becoming president. But when you see how much “fun” Barack Obama and his immediate predecessors have had in that job — and when you look at where the most exciting innovations in governance are happening — how long will it be before our kids, when asked what they want to be when they grow up, answer: “I want to be a mayor.” Except in Detroit, mayors today have more fun.
作为美国人，我们从小就被灌输了这样一个观念：每个孩子都可以梦想成为总统。但是，当你看到奥巴马及其前任在担任总统期间获得了多少“乐趣” 时，看到最令人兴奋的政府治理创新正在哪里出现时，你就会觉得，过不了多久，当记者询问我们的孩子长大后想要当什么时，回答会是：“我想当市长。”如今除了底特律之外，市长们享有的乐趣更多。
In fact, if you want to be an optimist about America today, stand on your head. The country looks so much better from the bottom up — from its major metropolitan areas — than from the top down. Washington is tied in knots by Republican-led hyperpartisanship, lobbyists and budget constraints. Ditto most state legislatures. So the great laboratories and engines of our economy are now our cities. This is the conclusion of an important new book by the Brookings Institution scholars Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley, entitled: “The Metropolitan Revolution: How Cities and Metros Are Fixing Our Broken Politics and Fragile Economy.”
事实上，要想对今日之美国有一个乐观的态度，倒立着看就行了。相比由上而下，由下而上地（从几大都市圈）看美国，样子要好看很多。华盛顿已经被共和党人引领的极度党派偏见、游说势力和预算限制缚住手脚。大多数州的立法机构也是一样。所以，我们的城市就成了当下经济的伟大实验室和引擎。这是美国布鲁金斯学会学者布鲁斯·卡茨(Bruce Katz)和珍妮弗·布拉德利(Jennifer Bradley)在一部重要的新书中得出的结论，书名是《大都市革命：城市和地铁如何修复我们残破的政治和脆弱的经济》(The Metropolitan Revolution: How Cities and Metros Are Fixing Our Broken Politics and Fragile Economy)。
For generations, they write, we held the view that “the feds and states are the adults in the system, setting direction; the cities and the metropolitan areas are the children, waiting for their allowance. The metropolitan revolution is exploding this tired construct. Cities and metropolitan areas are becoming the leaders in the nation: experimenting, taking risks, making hard choices.” We are seeing “the inversion of the hierarchy of power in the United States.”
他们写到：数个世代以来，我们都认为“在这个系统中，联邦和州是设定方向的成年人；城市和大都市圈则是等着拿零用钱的孩子。这个陈旧的构架正在被大都市革命颠覆。城市和大都市圈正在成为这个国家的领导者：进行实验、承担风险，作出艰难的选择。”我们正在见证“美国权力阶层的反转”。
What produced this shift? First, they argue, the Great Recession blew up the deformed growth model we had settled into — one “that exalted consumption over production, speculation over investment, and waste over sustainability.” The new growth model, which the most successful cities are practicing, focuses on creating networks that combine skilled laborers and knowledge workers, with universities and technical schools, with quality infrastructure and high-speed Internet, to do manufacturing, innovation, technology development and advanced services — with an eye to exporting all of them. That’s how we build a 21st-century middle class. “The best cities now understand that you need to a have a sector of your economy that is world class” in order to thrive, the authors argue.
是什么造成了这样的变化？他们认为，首先，“大衰退”(Great Recession)瓦解了我们曾经习惯了的畸形增长模式——这个模式更重视消费而非生产，投机而非投资，报废而非可持续发展。”而最成功的城市所采用的新增长模式则侧重在建立网络上，这种网络把熟练劳动力和知识工人、大学和技术学校、优质基础设施和高速互联网的网络结合起来，用于生产制造、创新、技术开发和高级服务 —— 并着眼于输出所有这些东西。这就是我们产生21世纪中产阶级的方式。作者称：“现在发展最好的城市明白一个道理，你的经济中需要有一个部门是世界一流的，”这样才能兴旺发展。
Second, cities know that neither Washington nor state government will save them. “Cities and metropolitan areas are on their own,” the authors write. “Mired in partisan division and rancor, the federal government appears incapable of taking bold action to restructure our economy and grapple with changing demography and rising inequality.”
其次，城市也知道，华盛顿和州政府都救不了它们。“城市和大都市圈得靠自己，”作者写道。“联邦政府陷入党派分裂和敌意之中，无法采取大胆的行动来调整经济结构，应对不断变化的人口结构和日趋严重的不平等。”
Look around and you see cities “doing the hard work of growing our new economy,” they said to me in an interview. With federal funding for scientific research uncertain, Michael Bloomberg “has created Applied Sciences campuses in New York City to spur innovation. Voters are putting up tax dollars for large-scale transit investments in Denver and Los Angeles and local leaders are leading the modernization of ports, airports and freight rail in Miami, Chicago, Jacksonville and Dallas.” A network of economic development organizations in northeast Ohio is “helping manufacturing firms retool their factories for new demand, using some federal dollars but also sizable investments from philanthropies.” And, in Houston, a network of neighborhood centers is connecting new immigrants with low-cost banking, education, child care and health care  — while the immigration bill is stalled in Congress.
环顾四周，你会看到城市“正在辛勤劳作，发展我们的新经济，”他们在一次采访中跟我说。联邦科研经费没有保障，迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)就在纽约市建立了应用科学(Applied Sciences) 园区来促进创新。在丹佛和洛杉矶，选民们把纳税人的钱用在大型交通投资上，在迈阿密、芝加哥、杰克逊维尔和达拉斯，当地领导人正在将港口、机场和铁路货运现代化。在俄亥俄州东北部， 一个经济发展组织网络正在“帮助制造业公司重组工厂，以适应新的需要。他们的资金中有一些来自联邦，但也有相当可观的部分来自于慈善机构。”在休斯敦，一个居民区中心网络正在帮助新移民享受低价的银行、教育、儿童保健和医疗保健服务 ——与此同时，移民法案在国会举步维艰。
“Washington is dysfunctional politically, and it is not just a momentary thing,” Rahm Emanuel, who gave up being the president’s chief of staff to become mayor of Chicago, told me. “We always said that there’d be a day when all that the federal government does is debt service, entitlement payments and defense. Well, folks, that day is here. So, federal support for after-school programs has shrunk. We added to ours, but I had to figure out where to get the money. The federal government is debating what to do with community colleges. We’ve already converted ours to focus on skills development and career-based education. I worked for two great presidents, but this is the best job I’ve had in public service.”
“华盛顿存在政治上的功能缺陷，而且不仅仅是暂时的，”拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)跟我说。他曾放弃了担任总统幕僚长的机会，成为了芝加哥市长。“我们总是说，有朝一日联邦政府能做的事情就只有偿还债务、发补助和国防了。嗯，伙计们，那一天已经到来了。所以，联邦缩减了对课外活动计划的支持。我们就增加自己的，但是我必须弄清楚从哪里弄到资金。联邦政府正在讨论拿社区学院怎么办。我们的社区学院已经转型了，把重点放在技能发展和以职业生涯为基础的教育上。我曾为两位出色的总统工作，但这才是我在公共服务领域拥有的最佳工作。“
D’s and R’s will work together locally, unlike in their statehouse or Congress, say the authors, because how they feel about the place where they live and work “is much stronger than how they feel about their party.”
在城市一级，民主党和共和党会携手合作，它们在州议会或国会中可不这样。作者说，这是因为他们对自己生活和工作的地方的感情，比对自己政党的感情强烈得多。”
Then there’s Detroit. It is “an extreme case,” Katz and Bradley explained. It is a perfect storm of municipal mismanagement, auto company mismanagement, major job decentralization and property abandonment. “Other cities face many of these challenges, but none to the same extent,” they argued. “Philadelphia has a daunting pension situation, as does Chicago, but both of those cities have things that Detroit lacked for decades: more jobs in their downtown cores and elected leaders who are not waiting for miracles but trying to move more aggressively to grow their economies, increase revenues, and manage debt.” Wish them well. With both D.C. and the states increasingly AWOL, we need cities more than ever to be our engines of smart growth.
那么底特律呢？那是“一个极端案例”，卡茨和布拉德利解释说。底特律的情况是多种因素偶然结合在一起引起的“完美风暴”，这些因素包括市政管理不善，汽车公司管理不善，严重的市中心就业机会流失和房产弃置。“其他城市也面临着很多同样的挑战，但程度都没有这样严重，”他们表示。“费城的退休金问题很严重，芝加哥也是一样，但这两个城市拥有底特律缺少了几十年的东西：市中心有更多的就业机会，人们选举出来的领导人没有在坐等奇迹发生，而是更加积极地发展经济，增加收入，处理债务。”祝福它们。随着华盛顿和州府越来越没有作为，我们比以往任何时候都更需要城市成为我们“明智增长”的引擎。