It was a night to celebrate strong women. Amy Schumer was the host, Caitlyn Jenner was honored and the guests included Arianna Huffington, Madeleine Albright and the actress Reese Witherspoon.
那个夜晚是为了赞美强大的女性。主持人是艾米·舒默(Amy Schumer)，获奖者包括凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)，嘉宾包括阿里安娜·赫芬顿(Arianna Huffington)、马德莱娜·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)和女演员瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)。
They also included Ivanka Trump.
还包括伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)。
When the crowd at Glamour’s Women of the Year event on Nov. 9 sat down for dinner at the Rainbow Room, a person at Ms. Trump’s table asked the question that others were no doubt thinking: What would her father, who was being pilloried for remarks that struck many as misogynistic, make of her attending an event like this?
11月9日，年度魅力女性(Glamour’s Women of the Year)晚宴的嘉宾们在彩虹餐厅(Rainbow Room)落座之后，与伊万卡同桌的一个人提出了其他人肯定在想的问题：她父亲对她参加这样的活动作何感想？当时，她父亲特朗普发表了一些在很多人看来是歧视女性的言论，因此遭到公开批评。
Ms. Trump quickly broke the strained silence by saying that she was her own person. Soon after, she and her friend Wendi Deng — Rupert Murdoch’s ex-wife — left.
伊万卡立刻打破尴尬的沉默，说自己是独立的个人。不久之后，她与朋友邓文迪，也就是鲁珀特·默多克[Rupert Murdoch]的前妻一同离开。
A spokesman for Ms. Trump said she went home not because she was uncomfortable, but because it was late and she had two small children. But it was an awkward collision of the two worlds she inhabits: One as a 30-something Manhattan socialite and role model to young professional women, the other as Donald J. Trump’s oldest daughter, biggest champion and perhaps most valuable asset.
伊万卡的一位发言人称，她回家不是因为那里让她不自在，而是因为当时已经很晚了，而她有两个小孩。不过，那是她所生活的两个世界的尴尬冲突：在其中一个世界里，她是30多岁的曼哈顿社会名流和年轻职业女性的楷模；在另一个世界里，她是唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的长女，是他最重要的支持者，或许还是他最宝贵的财富。
A lot of women have come and gone over the course of Mr. Trump’s life. But through his two high-profile divorces, numerous public romances and three marriages, Ivanka Trump has remained a constant.
很多女人在特朗普的生活中来来去去。他曾两次高调离婚，有数不清的公开恋情，结过三次婚，但伊万卡·特朗普永远在他生活里。
In interviews, the Trumps, their friends and people who have done business with them described Donald’s and Ivanka’s relationship as especially close, with Ms. Trump holding an exalted position in the family, in their company, and even in the campaign.
在采访中，特朗普的家人、朋友和生意伙伴表示，特朗普和伊万卡的关系特别亲密，伊万卡在家族、公司，甚至竞选活动中都具有很高的地位。
Among the Trump children, she is the acknowledged favorite: “Daddy’s little girl,” as her older brother Donald Jr. once described her. When Ms. Trump and her father are not together, she said, they speak as often as five times a day.
伊万卡是公认的最受特朗普喜爱的孩子。就像她哥哥小唐纳德(Donald Jr.)曾经说的，她是“爸爸的小宝贝”。伊万卡说，她和父亲不在一起时，每天通话五次。
In the Trump family business, he has given her a level of authority none of his wives, or for that matter executives, have ever had. She handles some of the Trump Organization’s biggest deals, including its acquisition of the Doral Resort in Miami, and its agreement to convert the Old Post Office building in Washington, D.C., into a luxury hotel.
在特朗普的家族生意中，他给予她的权力之大是他妻子和执行官们无人能企及的。她负责处理特朗普集团(Trump Organization)最重要的一些生意，包括收购迈阿密的多拉尔度假村(Doral Resort)，以及把华盛顿特区的老邮局(Old Post Office)大楼改造成奢华酒店。
And with Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, the Slovenian former model, less than comfortable on stage, Ivanka Trump has served as a surrogate political spouse for a candidate who may need one more than anyone else in the race.
特朗普的妻子、斯洛文尼亚前模特梅拉尼娅(Melania)不喜欢在公众场合亮相，所以伊万卡·特朗普成了这位候选人的替代政治伴侣——特朗普在这场竞选中最需要的就是这样一个伴侣。
Cutting a starkly different image from Mr. Trump’s more combative and impulsive public supporters, like Chris Christie or Sarah Palin, not to mention the candidate himself, Ms. Trump, 34, radiates disciplined poise and practiced reserve. While her father uses Twitter as a grenade launcher, she treats her well-tended social media feeds, which are notably politics-free, as marketing tools for the Trump Organization and her own line of women’s clothing and accessories.
与克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)或萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)这些特朗普更好斗、更冲动的公开支持者相比，甚至是与特朗普本人相比，34岁的伊万卡有着截然不同的个人形象，她身上具有老练的镇静和沉稳。她父亲通过Twitter进行攻击，她却用社交媒体来宣传特朗普集团和她自己的女装和配饰系列，她发帖子很谨慎，明显避谈政治。
On March 15, with her father in the midst of a political clear-cutting through Florida while facing accusations of stirring up racially charged violence at his rallies, she posted a photograph on Instagram highlighting the @TrumpHotels creative team in Waikiki under a serene image of a woman relaxing in a sun-dappled pool.
3月15日，她父亲正在佛罗里达遭到全面政治讨伐，被指责在集会上煽动种族暴力，她却在Instagram上发了一张宁静的照片，展现在阳光斑驳的泳池里放松的女人，并在照片下面提到在威基基的特朗普酒店创意团队。
It was a fitting image for a devoted daughter who exists as an almost surreally detached counterpoint to her father’s bellicosity, and yet may be his most important ally, particularly if he finds himself facing a Democratic opponent who aspires to be the first female president of the United States.
对一位忠诚的女儿来说，发这张照片很合适。她是好斗父亲不可思议的超然对立面，也是他最重要的盟友——尤其是当他面对的是一个渴望成为美国首位女总统的民主党对手时。
Ms. Trump tried to do damage control after her father seemed to have made reference to Megyn Kelly’s menstrual cycle. She was the unlikely star of a CNN town hall program last week with the Trump family, talking about how her father had encouraged and empowered her. And in a recent interview at Trump Tower, Ms. Trump attacked, however gently, her father’s critics.
在父亲似乎提到梅金·凯利(Megyn Kelly)的月经周期时，伊万卡努力让其带来的危害最小。上周，在CNN的一个关于特朗普家庭的政治节目中，她不可思议地成为明星，谈论父亲如何鼓励她，赋予她力量。前不久在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的采访中，她温和地回击了父亲的批评者。
“What bothers me is how rash people are to make claims as if they knew him and they knew his viewpoint on certain topics,” she said. “My father has an enormous heart and truly loves people — all people.”
“让我感到困扰的是，有些人会轻率地下结论，就好像他们认识他或者知道他在某些问题上的观点似的，”她说，“我父亲有颗宽宏大量的心，真的爱大家——爱所有人。”
Inside her father’s campaign, which has brazenly eschewed the advice of political experts, Ms. Trump is one of a few people who can, on occasion anyway, influence the candidate’s thinking. She failed to persuade Mr. Trump to apologize for accusing Mexico of sending its “rapists” over the border, according to a person close to Mr. Trump who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak for the campaign. But, this person said, she successfully convinced her father to maintain his qualified support for Planned Parenthood in the face of Republican criticism.
特朗普在竞选中大胆避开政治专家们的建议，而伊万卡是少数几个偶尔能影响这位候选人的人。据特朗普身边一个亲近的人（他拒绝公开姓名，因为他无权就此发表言论）说，伊万卡没有说服特朗普就指责墨西哥把“强奸犯”送到美国而道歉。但是此人说，伊万卡成功说服父亲在面对共和党的批评时，坚持对计划生育表示有限度的支持。
“I think her father really listens to her, and when I say listens to her I mean I think her father respects her a great deal, and not just because she’s his daughter,” said Carl Icahn, a longtime friend of the Trump family. “I don’t say that lightly. I have a lot of wealthy friends who have kids and a few of them stand out, but not that many.”
“我觉得她父亲真的听她的，我这么说的意思是，我觉得她父亲很尊重她，而不仅是因为她是他女儿，”特朗普家族的老朋友卡尔·伊坎(Carl Icahn)说，“我不是随便这么说的。我有很多富有的朋友，他们的孩子有少数很杰出，但不太多。”
Ms. Trump is the second of three children from Mr. Trump’s marriage to Ivana, a former model from the former Czechoslovakia. She was 8 when she learned about her father’s affair with Marla Maples from the horde of photographers waiting for her outside the Chapin School on the Upper East Side. “Love on the Rocks,” read the front page of the New York Daily News in the first of many stories about their contentious split.
伊万卡是特朗普与伊万娜(Ivana)婚后生的三个孩子中的第二个。伊万娜曾是前捷克斯洛伐克的一名模特。伊万卡8岁时，一群摄影师在上东区查宾学校(Chapin School)外等她，她从而得知父亲与玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)的婚外情。关于他们充满争议的离婚诉讼，《纽约每日新闻》(New York Daily News)进行了一系列报道，第一个报道上了头版，标题是“爱情触礁”(Love on the Rocks)。
In the public imagination, Mr. Trump had become a symbol of greed and excess. To Ms. Trump, he remained a doting father. And unlike Donald Jr., who did not speak to their father for a year, Ms. Trump never blamed him for the divorce.
在公众的想像中，特朗普已经成为贪婪和过分的象征。但在伊万卡眼里，他依然是慈爱的父亲。小唐纳德曾因为父母离婚的事一年没跟父亲说话，但是伊万卡从未因为此事指责父亲。
At Chapin, a close friend recalled, Ms. Trump would check in with him almost every day, calling him — collect — from a pay phone tucked away in a janitor’s closet. On weekends, he often brought her to visit his various construction sites, or whisked her and her friends off to Palm Beach with him on his jet to play golf and order room service at Mar-a-Lago.
伊万卡一位密友回忆说，在查宾学校时，伊万卡几乎每天都会用藏在门卫室橱柜里的对方付费电话给父亲打电话。周末，特朗普经常带她参观自己的各个建筑工地，或者带着她和她的朋友们乘坐私人飞机到棕榈滩打高尔夫，在马阿拉戈俱乐部(Mar-a-Lago)享受送餐服务。
After eighth grade, Ms. Trump’s parents sent her to boarding school at Choate Rosemary Hall in Connecticut.
8年级以后，伊万卡的父母把她送到康涅狄格州的寄宿学校乔特罗斯玛丽学校(Choate Rosemary Hall)。
In college, she was featured prominently in the 2003 documentary “Born Rich,” as part of a cast of heirs and heiresses reflecting on their extreme privilege. Most of her co-stars spoke about the corrupting influence of wealth on their young lives. By contrast, Ms. Trump seemed to idealize her family, speaking about how proud she was of her parents and the Trump name, and showing off her childhood bedroom, with its sweeping view of Central Park.
上大学时，她参与了2003年的记录片《生而富有》(Born Rich)，表现得非常突出。那部记录片讲述的是“富二代”们的极端特权。其他人大多在讲述财富对他们幼年生活的不良影响。而伊万卡似乎觉得自己的家庭很完美，称自己为父母和特朗普这个姓氏感到骄傲。她还炫耀自己童年时的卧室，说那里能一览中央公园的风景。
“There was no hint of teenage rebellion on or off the screen,” recalled the film’s producer, Dirk Wittenborn. “She had a message to deliver and she delivered it.”
“在银幕内外都看不到一点青少年的叛逆，”那部记录片的制片人德克·维滕博恩(Dirk Wittenborn)说，“她想传达一个信息，而且她传达了出来。”