WASHINGTON — Around 5:30 each morning, President Donald Trump wakes and tunes into the television in the White House’s master bedroom. He flips to CNN for news, moves to “Fox & Friends” for comfort and messaging ideas, and sometimes watches MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” because, friends suspect, it fires him up for the day.
华盛顿——每天早上5点30分前后，唐纳德·特朗普总统都会在白宫的主卧醒来，并打开电视。他会迅速调到CNN看新闻，换到《福克斯和朋友们》(Fox & Friends)寻找安慰和理清要说的话，有时候也会看MSNBC的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)。朋友们猜测，看《早安，乔》是因为该节目能让他充满激情，迎接一天的到来。
Energized, infuriated — often both — Trump grabs his iPhone. Sometimes he tweets while propped on his pillow, according to aides. Other times he tweets from the den next door, watching another television. Less frequently, he makes his way up the hall to the ornate Treaty Room, sometimes dressed for the day, sometimes still in nightclothes, where he begins his official and unofficial calls.
激动，愤怒——通常是两者兼具——之余，特朗普会拿起他的iPhone。据助手称，有时候他会靠在枕头上发推文。其他时候，他会在隔壁的小房间边看电视边发推。他还会穿过大厅，去华丽的条约厅(Treaty Room)，但这种情况较少见。此时的他有时候已经穿戴整齐，有时候还穿着睡衣。在条约厅，他开始打公务和非公务电话。
As he ends his first year in office, Trump is redefining what it means to be president. He sees the highest office in the land much as he did the night of his stunning victory over Hillary Clinton — as a prize he must fight to protect every waking moment, and Twitter is his Excalibur. Despite all his bluster, he views himself less as a titan dominating the world stage than a maligned outsider engaged in a struggle to be taken seriously, according to interviews with 60 advisers, associates, friends and members of Congress.
随着上台第一年的结束，特朗普正在重新定义当总统的含义。他现在对这个全美最高职位的看法，和他打败克林顿·希拉里(Hillary Clinton)，取得令人震惊的胜利的那天晚上一样，认为这是他醒着的每一刻都必须奋力保护的一个奖品，Twitter就是他的Excalibur（传说中亚瑟王的神剑——译注）。尽管爱口出狂言，但根据对他的60名顾问、同事、朋友以及国会议员的采访，他更多地认为自己是一个遭到污蔑的外来者，参加了一场必须认真对待的斗争，而不是一个主宰世界舞台的巨人。
For other presidents, every day is a test of how to lead a country, not just a faction, balancing competing interests. For Trump, every day is an hour-by-hour battle for self-preservation. He still relitigates last year’s election, convinced that the investigation by Robert Mueller, the special counsel, into Russia’s interference is a plot to delegitimize him.
对其他总统来说，每一天都是对如何领导一个国家而不仅仅是一个派别，平衡各种相互冲突的利益的考验。对特朗普来说，每一天都是为了自保而进行的按小时计算的战斗。他仍在为去年的选举辩护，认为特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)领导的通俄调查是一场旨在否定其合法性的阴谋。
People close to him estimate that Trump spends at least four hours a day, and sometimes as much as twice that, in front of a television, sometimes with the volume muted, marinating in the no-holds-barred wars of cable news and eager to fire back.
接近他的人估计，特朗普每天有四个小时是在电视机前度过的，有时看电视的时间甚至是这个数字的两倍。他有时候会把电视调成静音，沉浸在有线新闻毫无顾忌的战火中，急切地想要反击。
“He feels like there’s an effort to undermine his election and that collusion allegations are unfounded,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who has spent more time with the president than most lawmakers. “He believes passionately that the liberal left and the media are out to destroy him. The way he got here is fighting back and counterpunching.
“他觉得有人想破坏他的当选，这种密谋指控是没有根据的，”和总统共处的时间超过大部分议员的南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说。“他强烈地认为，自由派左翼和媒体想摧毁他。他是通过还击和反击取得目前的成绩的。”
“The problem he’s going to face,” Graham added, “is there’s a difference between running for the office and being president. You’ve got to find that sweet spot between being a fighter and being president.”
“他要面对的问题是，”格雷厄姆接着说，“竞选总统和当总统之间还是有区别的。你得找到当斗士和当总统之间的最佳位置。”
Trump is more unpopular than any of his modern predecessors at this point in his tenure — just 32 percent approved of his performance in the latest Pew Research Center poll — yet he dominates the landscape like no other.
在任期的这个节点上，特朗普的支持率比现代历史上的任何一个前任都要低。在皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的最新民调中，仅32%的人认同他的表现。但他对局面的主导仍处在无人能及的程度。
Trump is on the verge of finally prevailing in his efforts to cut taxes and reverse part of his predecessor’s health care program. While much of what he has promised remains undone, he has made significant progress in his goal of rolling back business and environmental regulations. The growing economy he inherited continues to improve. His partial travel ban on mainly Muslim countries has finally taken effect.
特朗普减税和废除前任医改计划部分内容的行动即将取得最终胜利。尽管很多承诺还没有兑现，但他已经在削减商业和环境监管措施方面取得了显著进展。他接手的日渐增长的经济继续改善。他针对以穆斯林为主的国家的部分入境禁令最终还是生效了。
Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, has told associates that Trump, deeply set in his ways at 71, will never change. Rather, he predicted, Trump would bend, and possibly break, the office to his will.
他的女婿、高级顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)对同事表示，71岁的特朗普固执己见，永远不会改变。他预测，特朗普会按照自己的意愿改变，甚至可能打破总统职位的定义。
That has proved half true. Trump, so far, has arguably wrestled the presidency to a draw.
事实证明，库什纳说对了一半。迄今为止，特朗普可以说和总统职位打成了平手。
As White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, a retired four-star general, has labored 14-hour days to impose discipline on a chaotic operation — with mixed success.
作为白宫幕僚长，退役四星上将约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)一天工作14小时，试图让一支混乱的团队变得有纪律，结果成败参半。
The Oval Office once had a rush-hour feel, with a constant stream of aides and visitors stopping by. The door is now mostly closed.
椭圆形办公室一度给人一种交通高峰期的感觉，不断有助手和来客去那里。现在，那间屋子的门大部分时候是关着的。
The pace of meetings has increased. Beyond Kelly and Kushner, they often include Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, national security adviser; Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and senior adviser; Hope Hicks, communications director; Robert Porter, staff secretary; and Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor.
会议的速度加快了。除了凯利和库什纳，参加会议的通常还有国家安全顾问H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)、总统的女儿兼高级顾问伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)、白宫联络室主任霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)、白宫秘书罗伯特·波特(Robert Porter)和总统的顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)。
Trump has made significant concessions and craves the approval of Kelly, whom he sees as a peer, people close to Trump said.
接近特朗普的人士说，特朗普已经做出了巨大的让步，希望得到被他视为与其地位平等的凯利的认可。
He calls Kelly up to a dozen times a day to ask about his schedule or seek policy advice, according to people who have spoken with the president. The new system gives him “time to think,” he said when it began. White House aides denied that Trump seeks Kelly’s blessing, but confirmed that he views him as a crucial confidant and sounding board.
据和总统有过交谈的人说，他一天会给凯利打多达十几次电话，询问他的日程安排或者寻求政策建议。他在这个体系刚启动时说，新体系给了他“时间去思考”。白宫助手否认特朗普寻求凯利的认可，但证实他将其视为一个重要的亲信和可靠的顾问。
The ammunition for Trump’s Twitter war is television. No one touches the remote control except Trump and the technical support staff — at least that’s the rule.
引爆特朗普Twitter战争的炸弹是电视。除了特朗普和技术支持人员之外，没有人能碰遥控器——至少规矩是这样。
But he is leery of being seen as tube-glued — a perception that reinforces the criticism that he is not taking the job seriously. On his recent trip to Asia, the president was told of a list of 51 fact-checking questions for this article, including one about his prodigious television watching habits. Instead of responding through an aide, he delivered a broadside on his viewing habits to reporters on Air Force One.
但他不愿意被视为沉迷于电视——这种看法强化了他不认真对待工作的批评。在不久前的亚洲之行期间，总统得知，这篇文章准备了一份列有51个问题的事实核查清单，其中一个是关于他超级爱看电视的习惯。他没有通过助手来回应，而是在“空军一号”上就他的观看习惯向记者发表了一番猛烈抨击。
“I do not watch much television,” he insisted. “I know they like to say — people that don’t know me — they like to say I watch television. People with fake sources — you know, fake reporters, fake sources. But I don’t get to watch much television, primarily because of documents. I’m reading documents a lot.”
“我没看太多电视，”他坚持说。“我知道他们喜欢说——那些不了解我的人——他们喜欢说我爱看电视。有虚假消息源的人，你知道的，假记者、假消息源。但我没办法看太多电视，主要是因为有太多文件。我很多时候都在读文件。”
The image of Trump in a constant rage belies a deeper complexity.
一个总在发火的特朗普形象掩盖了更深层的复杂性。
“He is very aware that he is only the 45th person to hold that job,” Conway said. “The job has changed him a bit, and he has changed the job. His time as president has revealed other, more affable and accessible, parts and pieces of him that may have been hidden from view during a rough and tumble primary.”
“他很清楚，他是获得这份工作的第45个人，”康威说。“这份工作改变了他一些，他也改变了这份工作。他在作为总统的时间里展露了他其他的、更友善、更平易近人的部分，这些在一个艰难、混乱的初选阶段可能被隐藏起来了。”
Few get to see those other parts and pieces. In private moments with the families of appointees in the Oval Office, the president engages with children in a softer tone than he takes in public, and he specifically asked that the children of the White House press corps be invited in as they visited on Halloween.
很少有人能看到这些其他的部分。在椭圆形办公室里与官员家属相处的私密时刻中，总统用一种比在公开场合更温柔的语调对待儿童，他专门要求白宫记者团成员的孩子在万圣节参观的时候被邀请进来。
Only occasionally does Trump let slip his mask of unreflective invincibility. During a meeting with Republican senators, he discussed in emotional terms the opioid crisis and the dangers of addiction, recounting his brother’s struggle with alcohol.
特朗普只有偶尔才会卸下他那副武装着不加反思的不可战胜之力的面具。在一次与共和党参议员的会议中，他充满感情地谈到了阿片危机和上瘾的危险，还回忆了他的哥哥摆脱酒瘾的斗争。
According to a senator and an aide, the president asked puckishly, “Aren’t you glad I don’t drink?”
据一名参议员和一名助手说，总统顽皮地说，“难道你们不庆幸我不喝酒吗？”
As the president increasingly recognizes how much Congress controls his fate, Marc Short, legislative affairs director, has sought to educate him by appealing to Trump’s tendency to view issues in terms of personality, compiling one-page profiles of legislators for him.
随着总统越来越意识到国会在多大程度上掌控着他的命运，立法事务主管马克·肖特(Marc Short)诉诸特朗普喜欢依照议员的个性来看待议题的偏好，为他制作了每位立法者一页篇幅的个人档案，为其提供指导。
While Trump is no policy wonk, he has shown more comfort with the details of his tax-cutting legislation. And aides said he had become more attentive during daily intelligence briefings thanks to pithy presentations by Mike Pompeo, CIA director, and a deeper concern about the North Korea situation than his tweets suggest.
尽管特朗普不是一名政策专家，他对减税法案的细节表现得更为熟稔了。助手称，他在每天的情报简报会议上表现得比以前更加专注，这要得益于中央情报局局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)精炼的演示，以及对朝鲜局势超过其推文所展示的更为深切的担忧。
Graham, once a fierce critic and now increasingly an ally, said Trump was adjusting. But Graham added that at this point in Trump’s presidency, “everything’s possible, from complete disaster to a home run.”
格拉哈姆曾是一名激烈的批评者，现在越来越成为特朗普的盟友，他说特朗普也在逐渐调整自己。但格拉哈姆补充，在特朗普总统任期的这个节点上，“一切都可能发生，从彻底的灾难到大获全胜。”
In almost all the interviews, Trump’s associates raised questions about his capacity and willingness to differentiate bad information from something that is true.
几乎在所有的采访中，特朗普的同僚们都提出质疑，怀疑他是否具备了分辨虚假和真实信息的能力和意愿。
Even after a year of official briefings and access to the best minds of the federal government, Trump is skeptical of anything that does not come from inside his bubble.
即使已经听了一年的正式简报，并且能够接触联邦政府最聪明的头脑，特朗普仍然对任何来自他的个人圈子以外的事保持怀疑。
In recent weeks, Trump’s friends have noticed a different pitch, acknowledging that many aides and even his own relatives could be hurt by Mueller’s investigation. As for himself, he has adopted a surprisingly fatalistic attitude, according to several people he speaks with regularly.
近几周，特朗普的朋友们注意到了一个不同的说法，他承认，很多助手，甚至他自己的亲人都有可能受到穆勒调查的伤害。至于他自己，据几名和他经常交谈的人说，他意外地采取了一种听天由命的态度。
“It’s life,” he said of the investigation.
“这就是人生，”他这样说起那场调查。
From there it is off to bed for what usually amounts to five or six hours of sleep. Then the television will be blaring again, he will reach for his iPhone and the battle will begin anew.
接下来就是通常持续五到六个小时的睡眠。然后电视再次响起，他会拿出自己的iPhone，战斗重新打响。