MIAMI — Behind a locked door aboard Norwegian Cruise Line’s newest ship is a world most of the vessel’s 4,200 passengers will never see. And that is exactly the point.
迈阿密――在挪威邮轮公司(Norwegian Cruise Line)最新的轮船上，有一扇锁起来的门，里面是一个船上4200名乘客中大多数人都无法进入的世界。它的重点也就在于此。
In the Haven, as this ship within a ship is called, about 275 elite guests enjoy not only a concierge and 24-hour butler service, but also a private pool, sun deck and restaurant, creating an oasis free from the crowds elsewhere on the Norwegian Escape.
这艘船中之船的名字叫做“避风港”(Haven)，在里面，大约275名精英乘客可以享受的，不仅是一名门卫及24小时的管家服务，还有私人泳池、阳光甲板和餐厅，在这艘名为“挪威遁逸号”(Norwegian Escape)的邮轮上创造出一个远离人群喧嚣的海洋。
If Haven passengers venture out of their aerie to see a show, a flash of their gold key card gets them the best seats in the house. When the ship returns to port, they disembark before everyone else.
如果“避风港”上的乘客们想要看表演，只要出示金色的钥匙卡就可以得到最好的位子。船只停靠在码头时，他们可以比别的乘客先下船。
“It was always the intention to make the Haven somewhat obscure so it wasn’t in the face of the masses,” said Kevin Sheehan, Norwegian’s former chief executive, who helped design the Escape with the hope of attracting a richer clientele. “That segment of the population wants to be surrounded by people with similar characteristics.”
“我们一直都刻意让‘避风港’保持神秘，不必面对大众乘客，”挪威邮轮公司的前首席执行官凯文·希恩(Kevin Sheenhan)说道，他曾经协助设计“遁逸号”，希望它吸引更富有的客户。“这部分人群希望身边都是拥有类似特质的人。”
With disparities in wealth greater than at any time since the Gilded Age, the gap is widening between the highly affluent — who find themselves behind the velvet ropes of today’s economy — and everyone else.
如今的财富差距是自镀金时代以来最为悬殊的，经济丝绒围栏内侧的高度富裕者与普通人之间的鸿沟变得愈来愈宽。
It represents a degree of economic and social stratification unseen in America since the days of Teddy Roosevelt, J. P. Morgan and the rigidly separated classes on the Titanic a century ago.
这表明，如今的经济与社会满意度又回到了泰迪·罗斯福(Teddy Roosevelt)、J·P·摩根(J. P. Morgan)与一个世纪之前的“泰坦尼克”号上严格区分不同等级舱位的时代。 
What is different today, though, is that companies have become much more adept at identifying their top customers and knowing which psychological buttons to push. The goal is to create extravagance and exclusivity for the select few, even if it stirs up resentment elsewhere. In fact, research has shown, a little envy can be good for the bottom line.
不过，如今的不同之处在于，公司更加擅长分辨自己的头等客户，也知道该怎样投合他们的心理。目标就是为这些被选定的少数人创造奢华与高级的气氛，尽管这会引起其他人的不满。事实上，研究表明，少量的嫉妒之情有助于盈利。
When top-dollar travelers switch planes in Atlanta, New York and other cities, Delta ferries them between terminals in a Porsche, what the airline calls a “surprise-and-delight service.” Last month, Walt Disney World began offering after-hours access to visitors who want to avoid the crowds. In other words, you basically get the Magic Kingdom to yourself.
当最富有的旅行者们在亚特兰大、纽约与其他城市转机时，达美航空(Delta)会用保时捷轿车接送他们在航站楼之间往来，航空公司说这是一种“惊喜服务”。上个月，沃尔特·迪士尼世界(Walt Disney World)开始给想避开人群的游客提供下班时间的游览服务。换言之，你几乎可以独自游览这个魔法王国。
When Royal Caribbean ships call at Labadee, the cruise line’s private resort in Haiti, elite guests get their own special beach club away from fellow travelers — an enclave within an enclave.
皇家加勒比(Royal Caribbean)的邮轮停泊在这家公司在海地拥有的私人码头拉巴迪(Labadee)时，精英旅客可以进入远离其他同船旅客的特殊海滩俱乐部——真是飞地中的飞地。
“We are living much more cloistered lives in terms of class,” said Thomas Sander, who directs a project on civic engagement at the Kennedy School at Harvard. “We are doing a much worse job of living out the egalitarian dream that has been our hallmark.”
“在阶级层面，我们过着比以往更为隔绝的生活，”托马斯·桑德(Thomas Sander)说，他在哈佛大学肯尼迪学院指导一个公民参与计划。“关于平等的梦想曾经是我们的标识，然而在这方面我们却愈来愈糟糕。”
Emmanuel Saez, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, estimates that the top 1 percent of American households now controls 42 percent of the nation’s wealth, up from less than 30 percent two decades ago. The top 0.1 percent accounts for 22 percent, nearly double the 1995 proportion.
加州大学伯克利分校的经济学教授伊曼纽尔·萨伊兹(Emmanuel Saez)估计，如今最富有的1%的美国家庭拥有全国42%的财富，20年前，他们占有的财富不到30%。最顶尖的0.1%家庭如今占有22%的财富，这个数字比1995年增加了将近一倍。
But even as income inequality and the wealth gap stoke the discontent that has emerged as a powerful force in this year’s presidential election, for American business it represents something else entirely. From cruise ship operators and casinos to amusement parks and airlines, the rise of the 1 percent spells opportunity and profit.
但是，甚至收入不平等与财富差距引发的不满在今年总统选举中成为一股强大的实力，对于美国商界来说，这种现象却有着完全不同的意义。从邮轮公司、赌场，到游乐和航空公司，1%富人的崛起对他们来说意味着许多的商机和利润。
Today, ever greater resources are being invested in winning market share at the very top of the pyramid, sometimes at the cost of diminished service for the rest of the public. While middle-class incomes are stagnating, the period since the end of the Great Recession has been a boom time for the very rich and the businesses that cater to them.
如今，更多资源被用于在这个金字塔的顶端赢得更多市场份额，有时要以减少对其余公众的服务为代价。一方面中产阶级的收入停滞不前，一方面，自从大衰退之后，这个时期也是富有者极度繁荣的时代，商界都在迎合他们。
From 2010 to 2014, the number of American households with at least $1 million in financial assets jumped by nearly one-third, to just under seven million, according to a study by the Boston Consulting Group. For the $1 million-plus cohort, estimated wealth grew by 7.2 percent annually from 2010 to 2014, eight times the pace of gains for families with less than $1 million.
根据波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)统计，从2010年到2014年，美国至少拥有100万美元资产的家庭增加了将近1/3，不到700万家庭。对于这个百万美元及以上集团来说，从2010年到2014年，他们的财富大约平均年增长7.2%，是拥有100万美元以下财产家庭的8倍。
“You go where the money is,” said Steven Fazzari, a professor of economics at Washington University in St. Louis. “This is where companies are innovating and where there is demand.”
“人们总是追逐金钱，”圣路易斯华盛顿大学经济学教授史蒂芬·法扎里(Steven Fazzari)说。“公司的创新和人们的需求都围绕着金钱。”
In many ways, the rise of the velvet rope reverses the great democratization of travel and leisure, and other elements of American life, in the post-World War II era. As the Jet Set gave way to budget airlines, in places like airports and theme parks even the wealthiest often rubbed shoulders with hoi polloi.
在很多方面，财富差异的丝绒绳索颠覆了旅游业与娱乐业内的大民主，乃至“二战”后美国生活的方方面面。随着廉价航空取代乘私人喷气机到处旅游的富豪，在机场和主题公园这样的地方，也经常看到最富有的人与平民百姓擦肩而过。
These days, whether the provider is a private company or a public agency, special treatment for the very rich isn’t personal, it’s business. Late last year, public officials in Los Angeles agreed to lease a separate facility at LAX to a private firm that would serve celebrities or anyone else willing to pay $1,800 to skip the traffic jams and lines at the main terminals.
如今，不管服务提供者是私人公司还是公立机构，对富有者的特殊服务都不是针对个别，而是一门生意。去年年底，洛杉矶政府官员同意把洛杉矶国际机场一处独立设施租借给一家私人公司，专门为名人或任何付得起1800美元的人服务，帮他们避开拥堵的交通，通过专门路线直接到达主航站楼。
Of course, it could be more extreme, and in the past it was.
当然，还有更极端的，而且过去就是如此。
The Titanic, in the early 20th century, separated the different classes of travelers with metal gates. In the 19th century, French railways refrained from putting roofs on third-class wagons so that passengers who could afford more expensive second-class seats would not hesitate to spend a few extra francs.
20世纪初的“泰坦尼克号”用金属门把不同等级舱位的乘客隔开。在19世纪，法国铁路公司不给三等车厢安装车顶，所以能负担起二等车厢票价的乘客绝不介意多花几个法郎。
What is new is just how far big American companies are now willing to go to pamper the biggest spenders.
如今的新情况是，为了娇宠最富有的客户，美国大公司们到底愿意走多远。
For example, as luggage-toting guests boarded Norwegian’s Breakaway ship in New York recently, cramming into a handful of elevators, there was ample room in one bank. But it was off-limits to anyone but Haven guests going to the top decks. Not far away, in the ship’s theater, red velvet ropes cordoned off a section up front for Haven passengers.
比如最近，携带行李的旅客在纽约登上挪威的这艘Breakaway号邮轮时，大家只能挤在几部电梯里，但有几部电梯没什么人坐，但它只对要到顶层舱位的“避风港”乘客开放。不远处是船上的剧场，红色丝绒绳索为“避风港”的乘客预留了一片区域。
At SeaWorld, a family of four can jump to the front of the line and score the best seats for rides and shows for an extra $80, in addition to the basic $320 admission. For people in the market for something more exclusive, there is Discovery Cove, next door to SeaWorld’s traditional park in Orlando.
在海洋世界(SeaWorld)，320美元的基本票价之外，一个四口之家多花80美元就可以插到队伍最前面，得到乘船和演出的最好位置。对于想要得到更特别待遇的人，还可以去探索湾(Discovery Cove)，它就在奥兰多海洋世界传统公园的隔壁。
Forget merely swimming with the dolphins. Today, parents can relax at a cabana and beach of their own, while their budding marine biologists spend the day with a trainer, feed the park’s birds, otters, nurse sharks and other creatures and, of course, frolic with the dolphins as well.
这里早已经不是只有和海豚一起游泳了。如今，父母们可以在自己专属的凉台小屋和海滩上放松，他们的小小海洋生物学家们则可以花整天时间，跟着培训师喂公园里的鸟、水獭、护士鲨和其他动物，当然，也可以和海豚一起玩耍。
There are no lines to cut here: Daily attendance is capped at 1,300. A day at Discovery Cove can easily cost $1,000 for a family of four.
这里不用怕人插队：每日的入园人数最高不超过1300人。对于一个四口之家，探索湾的一日游轻易就能达到1000美元。
Next year, Crystal Cruises will begin an airborne version of one of its luxury ships: a customized Boeing 777 that ferries passengers on 14- or 28-day trips around the world.
明年，水晶邮轮公司(Crystal Cruises)将为它最豪华的邮轮线路开设一条航空版：游客可以乘坐公司定制的波音777飞机，在14天或28天内环游世界。
In theory, according to Steve Tadelis, a professor of economics at the Haas School of Business at Berkeley, “when an industry is able to create a richer line of products for people looking to spend their money, that makes everybody happier. But getting it right in reality is very, very hard.”
伯克利哈斯商业学院的经济学教授史蒂夫·塔德利斯(Steve Tadelis)说，理论上，“当一个行业能够为想花钱的人创造更富有的产品线时，这会让所有都更高兴。但是在现实生活中把这件事做好却是很难很难的。”
As companies separate their clientele, a debate has developed over just how obvious the distinctions should be. Some experts, like David Clarke, who works with leisure industry giants as a principal at PricewaterhouseCoopers, say that it is best to be open about what amounts to a money-based caste system.
当公司区分自己的客户时，争议便开始产生：区别究竟应该有多明显？有些专家，如曾在普华永道与许多娱乐业巨头合作、担任他们的被委托人的大卫·克拉克(David Clarke)说，在这种金钱等级制度中，最好是公开不同等级的金额。
“It’s about transparency,” he said. “What customers hate is when you’re trying to hide stuff and are not being honest with them.”
“这关乎透明度，”他说。“客户最讨厌遮遮掩掩，对他们不讲实话。”
Many companies, though, have discovered that offering ordinary customers just a whiff of the rarefied air can actually enhance the bottom line, even if it stirs a certain amount of envy and resentment.
然而，很多公司发现，即便向普通消费者透露一点点特权的信息，都能增加收入，尽管这可能会招致一些嫉妒和不满。
As coach passengers pile into giant 747s and A380s, for example, “a glimpse of a shower or private suite creates a marker in people’s minds,” said Alex Dichter, a director at McKinsey who works with major airlines. “A lot of brands use products like these as an aspirational tool, and class segregation can create something to which people can aspire.”
比如，当普通舱的乘客们涌入巨大的747或A380飞机时，“瞥见淋浴舱或私人舱，会在人们的心目中创造一个市场，”麦肯锡与大航空公司合作的主管阿历克斯·迪希特(Alex Dichter)说。“很多品牌利用这样的产品作为工具，激发人们的渴望，阶层区分可以创造某些能让人们觊觎的东西。”
While choices for the rich are expanding, poorer Americans are benefiting less from product innovation, according to new research by Xavier Jaravel, a graduate student in economics at Harvard. Whether they are selling fancy cookware, natural cheeses or single malt Scotch, purveyors of goods aimed at the wealthy are competing more and offering new products. Downscale items like canned meat or tobacco aren’t drawing as many new entrants into the market.
哈佛大学(Harvard)经济学硕士研究生哈维尔·杰拉维尔(Xavier Jaravel)的新研究发现，虽然富人的选择增多了，但较为贫穷的美国人从产品创新的获益更少。不管是销售高档灶具、天然奶酪还是单一麦芽苏格兰威士忌，面向富人的商品供应者竞争更激烈，不断推出新产品。但肉罐头或烟草等低档商品市场所吸引的新竞争者就没这么多。
There is also increasing demand from the most affluent shoppers. Spending by the top 5 percent of earners rose nearly 35 percent from 2003 to 2012 after adjusting for inflation, according to a study by Mr. Fazzari and Barry Z. Cynamon of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. For everyone else, spending grew less than 10 percent.
最富有的购物者的需求也在不断增加。圣路易斯联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank)的法扎里和巴里·Z.塞纳蒙(Barry Z. Cynamon)进行的一项研究表明，从2003年到2012年，5%收入最高者的消费额增长了近35%（根据通货膨胀率重新计算后）。但其他人的消费额增长不到10%。
And with the rise of the Internet and big data, companies can pinpoint and favor these wealthiest customers in ways unimaginable even a decade ago. “At the high end, we can get into real psychographics and know who spends more time at the concierge or goes skiing in February,” said Bjorn Hanson, who teaches courses on tourism and hospitality management at New York University.
随着互联网和大数据的发展，公司能够准确找到并迎合这些最富有的顾客，这在十年前是不可想像的事情。“我们能够了解高端消费者的真实消费心理，知道谁在酒店服务台呆的时间更长，谁在2月份去滑雪，”比约恩·汉森(Bjorn Hanson)说。她在纽约大学(New York University)教授旅游和酒店管理课程。
For companies trying to entice moneyed customers, that means identifying and anticipating what they want. “The premium customer doesn’t want to be asked questions,” said Mr. Clarke of PricewaterhouseCoopers. “They don’t want friction. They want things to happen through osmosis.”
对那些努力引诱富有顾客的公司来说，那就意味着要弄清和预测他们想要什么。“高级客户不想回答问题，”普华永道的克拉克说，“他们不喜欢摩擦。他们喜欢润物细无声的做法。”
But for people at the lower end of the market, as well as in the middle, plenty of friction remains. The trade-off is that the amount of hassle is precisely calibrated to just how much you are willing to pay.
但是低端和中端市场仍存在很多摩擦。摩擦程度完全取决于你愿意支付多少钱。
“At the low end, people’s expectations have fundamentally changed,” Mr. Clarke said. “Because it’s a fraction of the cost, people say, ‘I’m willing to take some discomfort because my wallet is staying full.’”
“在低端市场，人们的期望发生了根本的改变，”克拉克说，“因为只是一小点花费，所以人们会说，‘因为我没花什么钱，所以我愿意忍受一些不舒适。’”
Executives describe the virtues of elite segmentation with a directness that might well serve as fodder for supporters of Occupy Wall Street or Senator Bernie Sanders. At its debut in 2006, the Haven was swamped by tourists from regular quarters who paid $200 to upgrade to one of its 40 or so rooms, Mr. Sheehan recalled.
高管们对精英细分市场优点的表述非常直接，很可能会成为“占领华尔街运动”(Occupy Wall Street)的支持者或参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)抨击的素材。希恩回忆说，2006年，“避风港”首次推出时，被普通客舱的游客挤满，他们支付200美元升级到高级客舱——后者共有40间左右。
So he ordered an immediate halt to the upgrades, which undercut profit margins and undermined the Haven’s main selling point, exclusivity.
所以，他下令立刻停止升舱。他认为，升舱会降低利润率，损害“避风港”的主要卖点——排外性。
“We needed to fill the Haven by getting the right people on the ship,” said Mr. Sheehan, who stepped down as chief executive last year. “When the masses overwhelmed the group in the Haven, they didn’t have the experience they were looking for.”
“我们需要把合适的人请上船，让他们填满‘避风港’，”希恩说。去年他辞去该公司的首席执行官职位。“如果‘避风港’被普通人主导，他们就得不到想要的体验。”
Mr. Sheehan’s focus on wealthier travelers proved prescient. Norwegian’s stock has surged. And as the company designed new vessels in recent years, the Haven became more defined — with its own pool, lounge, bar and restaurant — and more isolated from the rest of the ship.
希恩重点关注富有旅行者的做法被证明具有先见之明。挪威邮轮公司的股价暴涨。近些年，在公司设计的新邮轮上，对“避风港”的定位更加明确，它有自己的泳池、休息室、酒吧和餐厅，与船上的其他部分更加隔离。
With the launch of the 4,100-passenger Epic in 2010, “a guest could enter the key card for access, and never leave,” said Andy Stuart, Norwegian’s president.
挪威邮轮公司总裁安迪·斯图尔特(Andy Stuart)说，2010年，可载4100名乘客的史诗号(Epic)启航，“[‘避风港’的]宾客可凭钥匙卡进入，可以一直呆在那里”。
And by last year, when the even newer Escape sailed on its maiden voyage, the Haven’s 95 staterooms were located so high up in the forward part of the ship that even guests in comparatively expensive staterooms might remain unaware of its existence. Depending on the season, a room in the Haven might cost a couple $10,000 for a weeklong cruise vs. $3,000 for an ordinary stateroom elsewhere on the ship.
去年，最新的“遁逸号”首航，“避风港”的95间高级客舱安置在邮轮前部位置较高的地方，甚至连相对昂贵的客舱里的宾客可能也意识不到它的存在。根据季节不同，两人住在“避风港”的一间客舱里航游一周可能需要花费1万美元，而船上普通客舱的费用只要3000美元。
While the Haven is hidden, or at least camouflaged, on Norwegian’s cruise ships, its archrival Royal Caribbean, by contrast, makes no secret of what is available to passengers who pay the most. Its Royal Suite class isn’t a ship within a ship, but it serves much the same function with one significant difference: Regular passengers can push their noses up against the glass, literally.
挪威邮轮上的“避风港”是藏起来或至少是伪装起来的，而它的主要对手皇家加勒比邮轮公司毫不掩饰付钱最多的乘客所享受的待遇。它的皇家套房(Royal Suite)不是船中船，但它的功能与“避风港”相同，只有一项重大差别：普通乘客真的可以把鼻子顶到玻璃上窥探。
On Royal Caribbean’s new ship Anthem, diners must first walk past the frosted glass windows of Coastal Kitchen, reserved for suite occupants, before they can crowd around the buffet tables of the open-to-everyone Windjammer Café.
在皇家加勒比的新邮轮“赞美诗”(Anthem)号上，用餐者必须先经过专供套房乘客使用的海岸厨房(Coastal Kitchen)的毛玻璃窗，才能走到对所有人开放的帆船咖啡馆(Windjammer Café)，围坐在自助餐桌边进餐。
There are no chafing dishes in sight at the Coastal Kitchen, where the order of the day is white table cloths and sit-down service. The atmosphere is as calm and leisurely as Windjammer is hectic, although suite guests are free to dine at the latter if they like.
海岸厨房里没有保暖锅，它提供白色桌布和上菜服务。那里悠闲平静，而帆船咖啡馆则是忙碌喧闹——虽然套房宾客也可以随意在这里进餐。
Royal Caribbean’s business approach contrasts strikingly with Norwegian’s.
皇家加勒比的商业模式与挪威邮轮公司形成鲜明对比。
While Norwegian executives decided to mostly hide the Haven from view, Royal Caribbean went with transparency. “It’s the American way,” said Michael Bayley, president of Royal Caribbean. “I think society is prepared to accept that if you pay more for certain elements, then you deserve them.”
挪威邮轮公司的管理者们决定把“避风港”藏起来，而皇家加勒比则采取透明方式。“这是美国人的方式，”皇家加勒比的总裁迈克尔·贝利(Michael Bayley)说，“我觉得这个社会已经准备好接受这种方式——如果你多花钱购买某些服务，你就该得到它们。”
Mr. Bayley and Royal Caribbean’s chairman, Richard Fain, say they ultimately decided against the ship-within-a-ship concept after studying the Haven.
贝利和皇家加勒比的主席理查德·费恩(Richard Fain)称，他们在研究“避风港”之后，最终决定不采用船中船的概念。
“That’s not the mojo or the culture of Royal Caribbean,” Mr. Bayley said. “The idea of segregating people into a class system is un-American. But if you live on Central Park, you are going to pay more. That’s how the system works.”
“那不是皇家加勒比的特色或文化，”贝利说，“把人按照等级隔离开不是美国作风。但是如果你住在中央公园，你就要多花钱。体制就是这样的。”
As has been the case elsewhere in the leisure industry in recent years, Royal Caribbean has become more comfortable with heightening the contrast between the treatment meted out to ordinary passengers and the level of service reserved for the top tier. Royal Caribbean has always considered the psychology of its guests when it designs new ships or introduces new amenities, said Adam Goldstein, the company’s chief operating officer, but there has been a shift in passenger expectations in recent years.
皇家加勒比更加适应突显普通乘客和高级乘客待遇差别的做法，因为近些年这在旅游行业十分常见。皇家加勒比海的首席运营官亚当·戈尔茨坦(Adam Goldstein)说，该公司在设计新邮轮或推出新设施时，总是考虑宾客的心理感受，但是近些年乘客们的期望发生了变化。
“For a long time there was an acceptance that outside the door of your room, you were on an equal footing,” he said. “We didn’t attempt to have any differentiation in how services were delivered.”
“有很长一段时间，人们接受的观念是这样的：出了你的房门，你就和其他人是平等的，”他说，“过去，我们不想在提供服务方面有任何差异。”
Since the late 1990s, however, “there has been a huge evolution, maybe a revolution in attitudes,” Mr. Goldstein said. In addition to larger rooms or softer sheets, big spenders want to be coddled nowadays. “They are looking for constant validation that they are a higher-value customer,” he said. For example, room service requests from Royal Suite occupants are automatically routed to a number different from the one used by regular passengers, who get slower, less personalized service.
戈尔茨坦说，但是，从20世纪90年代末起，“人们的观念出现重大发展，或者说革命”。而今，出手阔绰的人除了想要更大的房间、更柔软的床单，还想要得到精心照顾。“他们想处处证明自己是更有价值的消费者，”他说。比如说，皇家套房的乘客与普通乘客在要求送餐服务时会自动得到不同的安排，后者的服务更慢，更不人性化。
With a week in a top Royal Suite costing upward of $30,000, compared with $4,000 for an ordinary cabin, the focus is on “very affluent travelers, and we have no trouble filling these rooms,” Mr. Bayley said.
在顶级皇家套房住一周的费用超过3万美元，而普通舱的费用是4000美元。贝利说，我们重点关注“非常富有的旅行者，填满这些客房毫无困难”。
In May, the company will roll out its Royal Genie program — essentially a personal servant for the highest spenders on board. Royal Genies will research their guests’ preferences even before they come aboard and come up with surprises like in-room drinks with their favorite vodka or Scotch.
今年5月，该公司将推出自己的皇家魔仆项目(Royal Genie)——船上消费最高的那些人将拥有自己的私人服务员。皇家魔仆们在宾客上船前就研究他们的偏好，准备一些惊喜，比如提供他们最喜欢的伏特加或苏格兰威士忌等房内饮品。
Even though this kind of pampering might be good for business, and delight those on the right side of the velvet rope, the gap between the privileged and the rest may ultimately leave everyone feeling uneasy, said Barry J. Nalebuff, a professor of management at Yale.
耶鲁大学(Yale)管理学教授巴里·J·纳尔巴夫(Barry J. Nalebuff)说，尽管这种无微不至的款待可能有益于生意，可能会让围在丝绒绳索里的人感到高兴，但是特权人士和普通人的差距可能最终会让所有人感到不自在。
“If I’m in the back of the plane, I want to hiss at the people in first class,” said Mr. Nalebuff, who has advised many Fortune 100 companies. “If I’m up front, I cringe as people walk by.”
“如果我坐在飞机尾部，我想对头等舱的人们发出嘘声，”纳尔巴夫说。他曾为很多财富100强公司提供顾问服务。“如果我坐在前面，人们经过时，我会感到难为情。”