Thousands of foreign-trained immigrant physicians are living in the United States with lifesaving skills that are going unused because they stumbled over one of the many hurdles in the path toward becoming a licensed doctor here.
在成为执业医生的道路上有许多艰难险阻。而正是由于被绊倒在其中的一关上，成千上万在国外受训、现居美国且拥有救命本领的移民医生无法继续行医。
The involved testing process and often duplicative training these doctors must go through are intended to make sure they meet this country’s high quality standards, which American medical industry groups say are unmatched elsewhere in the world. Some development experts are also loath to make it too easy for foreign doctors to practice here because of the risk of a “brain drain” abroad.
为了确保能满足美国的高质量标准，这些医生必须参加相关测试以及通常是重复性的培训。美国医疗行业组织称，世界上其他地方都无法与美国的高标准相媲美。由于担心国外“人才流失”的风险，一些发展专家也不愿意看到外来医生在这里轻易就能行医。
But many foreign physicians and their advocates argue that the process is unnecessarily restrictive and time-consuming, particularly since America’s need for doctors will expand sharply in a few short months under President Obama’s health care law. They point out that medical services cost far more in the United States than elsewhere in the world, in part because of such restrictions.
但是许多外国医生和他们的拥护者们辩称，这一过程带来了不必要的限制而且耗费时间，尤其是考虑到奥巴马(Obama)总统的医保法案将促使美国对医生的需求在短短几个月内急剧扩大。他们指出，美国的医疗服务费用比世界其他地区贵得多，一部分原因正是由于这些限制。
The United States already faces a shortage of physicians in many parts of the country, especially in specialties where foreign-trained physicians are most likely to practice, like primary care. And that shortage is going to get exponentially worse, studies predict, when the health care law insures millions more Americans starting in 2014.
美国许多地方已经面临医生短缺问题，特别是在国外受训医生最可能行医的专门领域，如初诊领域。研究表明，当医保法案从2014年开始实施时，美国将增加数百万受保人，届时这一短缺情况预计将大幅恶化。
The new health care law only modestly increases the supply of homegrown primary care doctors, not nearly enough to account for the shortfall, and even that tiny bump is still a few years away because it takes so long to train new doctors. Immigrant advocates and some economists point out that the medical labor force could grow much faster if the country tapped the underused skills of the foreign-trained physicians who are already here but are not allowed to practice. Canada, by contrast, has made efforts to recognize more high-quality training programs done abroad.
新的医保法案只是小幅增加了本土初诊医生的供应，远不够填补这一短缺，并且由于培训新医生的时间长，即使这点增量也要在几年后才能实际体现。移民倡导人士和一些经济学家指出，一些国外受训的医生已经身在美国，但不能获准行医，如果去利用他们被荒废的技能，医疗从业人数的增长会快很多。相比之下，加拿大已经做出努力认可更多国外完成的高质量医生培训项目。
“It doesn’t cost the taxpayers a penny because these doctors come fully trained,” said Nyapati Raghu Rao, the Indian-born chairman of psychiatry at Nassau University Medical Center and a past chairman of the American Medical Association’s international medical graduates governing council. “It is doubtful that the U.S. can respond to the massive shortages without the participation of international medical graduates. But we’re basically ignoring them in this discussion and I don’t know why that is.”
“这些医生来的时候已经受过充分的培训，不需要花纳税人一分钱，”出生于印度的纳苏大学医疗中心(Nassau University Medical Center)精神科主任、美国医学协会(American Medical Associations)国际医学毕业生管理委员会前主席尼亚帕迪·拉古·拉奥(Nyapati Raghu Rao)说。“美国不利用国际医学毕业生便能应对巨大的医生短缺是值得怀疑的。但我们在围绕这一短缺的讨论中对外国医生基本视而不见，我不明白这是什么原因。”
Consider Sajith Abeyawickrama, 37, who was a celebrated anesthesiologist in his native Sri Lanka. But here in the United States, where he came in 2010 to marry, he cannot practice medicine.
37岁的萨基·阿贝亚维克拉玛(Sajith Abeyawickrama)在祖国斯里兰卡是一位很受推崇的麻醉师。但他在2010年来美国结婚后，便无法继续行医。
Instead of working as a doctor himself, he has held a series of jobs in the medical industry, including an unpaid position where he entered patient data into a hospital’s electronic medical records system, and, more recently, a paid position teaching a test prep course for students trying to become licensed doctors themselves.
由于当不成医生，他只能在医疗业找一些相关的工作机会，包括一份无报酬的将病人数据输入医院电子病历系统的工作，最近他在做一份培训教师的差事，为想成为执业医师的学生提供有偿考试辅导。
For years the United States has been training too few doctors to meet its own needs, in part because of industry-set limits on the number of medical school slots available. Today about one in four physicians practicing in the United States were trained abroad, a figure that includes a substantial number of American citizens who could not get into medical school at home and studied in places like the Caribbean.
多年来，美国培养的医生太少，无法满足本国的需求，一部分原因是由于行业对医学院的名额设定了限制。如今，在美国行医的医生中，约有四分之一是在国外接受的培训，这其中包括大量无法在国内医学院就读的美国人，他们不得不去像加勒比海这样的地方求学。
But immigrant doctors, no matter how experienced and well trained, must run a long, costly and confusing gantlet before they can actually practice here.
但移民医生，无论多有经验，多训练有素，在行医前都必须走一套耗时长、费用高且模糊不清的认证程序。
The process usually starts with an application to a private nonprofit organization that verifies medical school transcripts and diplomas. Among other requirements, foreign doctors must prove they speak English; pass three separate steps of the United States Medical Licensing Examination; get American recommendation letters, usually obtained after volunteering or working in a hospital, clinic or research organization; and be permanent residents or receive a work visa (which often requires them to return to their home country after their training).
这一程序通常从向一家能够核实医学院成绩和学位的私立非营利性机构提交查证申请开始。在其他要求中，外国医生必须证明他们会说英语；分三步通过美国职业医师执照考试(United States Medical Licensing Examination)；获得美国的推荐函（通常可以通过在医院、诊所或研究机构的工作或志愿服务后取得）；然后还要成为美国永久居民或者拿到工作签证（通常要求他们在培训结束后回到自己的祖国）。
The biggest challenge is that an immigrant physician must win one of the coveted slots in America’s medical residency system, the step that seems to be the tightest bottleneck.
移民医生面临的最大挑战在于，必须在美国的住院医生系统里赢得一个令人垂涎的席位，这一步几乎是最难突破的瓶颈。
That residency, which typically involves grueling 80-hour workweeks, is required even if a doctor previously did a residency in a country with an advanced medical system, like Britain or Japan. The only exception is for doctors who did their residencies in Canada.
住院医生的典型要求包括，无数个折磨人的80小时工作周，即使医生以前在有着先进医疗系统的国家当过住院医生，例如英国和日本，也要满足这一要求。只有在加拿大担任过住院医生的才能豁免这一要求。
The whole process can consume upward of a decade — for those lucky few who make it through.
即使那些有幸通过这整套程序的人，也要耗上十多年时间。
“It took me double the time I thought, since I was still having to work while I was studying to pay for the visa, which was very expensive,” said Alisson Sombredero, 33, an H.I.V. specialist who came to the United States from Colombia in 2005.
“因为在学习期间，我还要打工支付高昂的签证费，我花的时间是预期的两倍，”33岁的艾滋病专科医生艾利森·松布雷德洛(Alisson Sombredero)说。他在2005年从哥伦比亚来到美国。
The counterargument for making it easier for foreign physicians to practice in the United States — aside from concerns about quality controls — is that doing so will draw more physicians from poor countries. These places often have paid for their doctors’ medical training with public funds, on the assumption that those doctors will stay.
一些人反对降低外国医生在美国行医的难度，原因除了对质量控制的担忧，还有一点是这么做会引来更多贫穷国家的医生。这些国家通常花公款为医生提供医学培训，以为那些医生会留在祖国。
“We need to wean ourselves from our extraordinary dependence on importing doctors from the developing world,” said Fitzhugh Mullan, a professor of medicine and health policy at George Washington University in Washington. “We can’t tell other countries to nail their doctors’ feet to the ground at home. People will want to move and they should be able to. But we have created a huge, wide, open market by undertraining here, and the developing world responds.”
“我们严重依赖发展中国家的医生输入，在这一点上应该断奶，”华盛顿的乔治华盛顿大学(George Washington University)医学与卫生政策学教授菲茨赫·穆伦(Fitzhugh Mullan)说。“我们不能跟其他国家说，他们要把医生的脚钉在自己的土地上。有的人将会想搬走，应该允许他们离开。但是由于培训不足，我们形成了一个大而广的开放市场，于是发展中国家的医学人才对该市场做出了相应的响应。”
Experts say several things could be done to make it easier for foreign-trained doctors to practice here, including reciprocal licensing arrangements, more and perhaps accelerated American residencies, or recognition of postgraduate training from other advanced countries.
专家们说，要使外国受训的医生在美国行医更容易，有几件事可以做，包括互惠的许可协议；增加或加快住院医生项目；或是认可其他发达国家的研究生培训。
Canada provides the most telling comparison. Some Canadian provinces allow immigrant doctors to practice family medicine without doing a Canadian residency, typically if the doctor did similar postgraduate work in the United States, Australia, Britain or Ireland. There are also residency waivers for some specialists coming from select training programs abroad considered similar to Canadian ones.
加拿大提供了最明显的对比。加拿大一些省份允许没有本国住院医生经历的移民医生当家庭医生，尤其是如果该医生在美国、澳大利亚、英国或爱尔兰做过类似的研究生工作。此外，一些在海外接受过与加拿大类似的特定培训项目的专科医生也能享受住院医生经历要求的豁免待遇。
As a result, many (some estimates suggest nearly half) foreign-trained physicians currently coming into Canada do not have to redo a residency, said Dr. Rocco Gerace, the president of the Federation of Medical Regulatory Authorities of Canada.
最终，许多（一些估算显示将近一半数量）目前来到加拿大的国外受训医生，将不需要重新当一名住院医生，加拿大医疗行业监管机构联盟(Federation of Medical Regulatory Authorities of Canada)主席罗科·杰拉思(Rocco Gerace)医生说。
In the United States, some foreign doctors work as waiters or taxi drivers while they try to work through the licensing process. Others decide to apply their skills to becoming another kind of medical professional, like a nurse practitioner or physician assistant, adopting careers that require fewer years of training. But those paths present barriers as well.
在美国，一些试图通过执照考试的外国医生在这个过程中做着服务员或出租车司机的工作。另一些人决定把技能用在另一些医疗专业领域，如执业护士或医师助理，选择培训时间短几年的职业。但这些道路也都荆棘丛生。
The same is true for other highly skilled medical professionals.
在其他技能要求高的医疗专业也存在着相同的情况。
Hemamani Karuppiaharjunan, 40, was a dentist in her native India, which she left in 2000 to join her husband in the United States. She decided that going back to dentistry school in the United States while having two young children would be prohibitively time-consuming and expensive. Instead, she enrolled in a two-year dental hygiene program at Bergen Community College in Paramus, N.J., which cost her $30,000 instead of the $150,000 she would have needed to attend dental school. She graduated in 2012 at the top of her class and earns $42 an hour now, about half what she might make as a dentist in her area.
40岁的赫玛玛尼·卡茹比阿隽安(Hemamani Karuppiaharjunan)在祖国印度是一名牙医，2000年时她离开印度到美国与丈夫团聚。她认为在带着两个小孩的同时回到美国牙科校园将花费太多的时间，并且费用也过高。因此，她到新泽西帕拉默斯的卑尔根社区大学(Bergen Community College)学习两年制口腔卫生课程，花费3万美元，如果读牙科学院，费用将高达15万美元。2012年，她以班里最好的成绩毕业，现在的收入是每小时42美元，如果她在这个地区做牙医，收入将可能是目前的两倍。
The loss of status has been harder.
而地位的损失更大。
“I rarely talk about it with patients,” she said. When she does mention her background, they usually express sympathy. “I’m glad my education is still respected in that sense, that people do recognize what I’ve done even though I can’t practice dentistry.”
“我几乎不和患者讨论这件事，”她说。当她提到自己的背景时，他们通常表达同情。“即使不能成为牙医，人们仍然承认我的工作，从这个意义上说，我接受的教育仍受到尊重，这一点让我很欣慰。”