DRIVE through almost any neighborhood around the country, and class divisions are as clear as the gate around one community or the grittiness of another. From the footprint of the house to the gleam on the car in the driveway, it is not hard to guess the economic status of the people who live there.
开车穿过美国全境任意一处社区，你都会发现，阶级的区分就如同环绕一个小区的大门，或另一个小区铺的砂砾般一目了然。再看看一栋屋子的占地面积，到车道上闪闪发亮的小车，要猜出住在那里的人群经济状况如何，一点不难。
Even the landscape is carved up by class. From 15,000 feet up, you can stare down at subdivisions and tract houses, and America’s class lines will stare right back up at you.
甚至，连景观也打上了阶级的烙印。从15000英尺（约合4572米）的高空，低头就能看见排列有序的空地和整齐划一的房子；而美国土地上那一道道阶级分界线，也会反过来直接凝视着你。
Manhattan, however, is not like most places. Its 1.6 million residents hide in a forest of tall buildings, and even the city’s elite take the subway. Sure, there are obvious brand-name buildings and tony ZIP codes where the price of entry clearly demands a certain amount of wealth, but middle-class neighborhoods do not really exist in Manhattan — probably the only place in the United States where a $5.5 million condo with a teak closet and mother-of-pearl wall tile shares a block with a public housing project.
然而，曼哈顿与大多数地方不同。这座城市中的160万居民藏身于高楼大厦的森林中，就连这座城市的精英阶层也一样乘坐地铁。没错，虽然曼哈顿的楼宇上也挂着显眼的品牌商标，虽然这里的昂贵地段也同样要价不菲，但是在曼哈顿，并不存在所谓的“中产阶级生活区”——那种屋里配着柚木橱柜、墙上贴着珠母瓷砖、价值550万美元（约合人民币3424万元）的分户式产权公寓，竟与一处政府公屋项目同处一个街区，这种情况在全美国可能只有曼哈顿才有。
In TriBeCa, Karen Azeez feels squeezed. A fund-raising consultant, Ms. Azeez has lived in the city for more than 20 years. Her husband, a retired police sergeant, bought their one-bedroom apartment in the low $200,000 range in 1997.
住在翠贝卡街区(TriBeCa)的卡伦·阿齐兹(Karen Azeez)觉得屋里拥挤不堪。她是一位融资顾问，在这座城市里生活了20多年。她的丈夫是一位退休警司，在1997年的房价低潮中，他以20万美元（约合人民币122.43万元）买下了这套单卧室公寓。
“When we got here, I didn’t feel so out of place, I didn’t have this awareness of being middle class,” she said. But in the last 5 or 10 years an array of high-rises brought “uberwealthy” neighbors, she said, the kind of people who discuss winter trips to St. Barts at the dog run, and buy $700 Moncler ski jackets for their children.
“刚来这儿的时候，我并不觉得那么格格不入，也没什么身为中产阶级的意识，”她说。但是最近五到十年来，一栋栋高楼拔地而起，也带来了一些“极为有钱的”邻居，她说，这类人谈论的是冬季前往圣巴特岛（St-Barts，位于法属西印度群岛，是加勒比海最小的岛屿之一——译注）观看赛狗比赛，还会给他们的孩子购买700美元（约合人民币4358元）的Moncler牌滑雪衫。
Even the local restaurants give Ms. Azeez the sense that she is now living as an economic minority in her own neighborhood.
就连本地的餐馆都让阿齐兹觉得，自己在这个社区里正过着一种穷人过的日子。
“There’s McDonald’s, Mexican and Nobu,” she said, and nothing in between.
“不是麦当劳，就是墨西哥饭馆和Nobu餐厅，”她说，没什么中间选择。
In a city like New York, where everything is superlative, who exactly is middle class? What kind of salary are we talking about? Where does a middle-class person live? And could the relentless rise in real estate prices push the middle class to extinction?
在纽约这样一座城市里，一切都是顶级的，什么样的人才算是中产阶级呢？我们所讨论的中产阶级，薪水收入该是多少？住处又在哪里？而房地产价格的无情增长，会让中产阶级逐渐走向消亡吗？
“A lot of people are hanging on by the skin of their teeth,” said Cheryl King, an acting coach who lives and works in a combined apartment and performance space that she rents out for screenings, video shoots and workshops to help offset her own high rent.
“很多人都在勉强度日，”谢丽尔·金(Cheryl King)说道，她是一位表演教练，在一套住宅与表演场地合二为一的公寓里生活、工作。她把表演场地租出去做放映室、拍摄间和工作室，以此补贴高昂的租金。
“My niece just bought a home in Atlanta for $85,000,” she said. “I almost spend that on rent and utilities in a year. To them, making $250,000 a year is wealthy. To us, it’s maybe the upper edge of middle class.”
“我侄女在亚特兰大(Atlanta)买房安家，只花了8.5万美元（约合人民币52.9万元），”她说，“而我一年的租金和水电管理费就要花掉那么多了。对他们来说，一年赚25万美元（约合人民币155.6万元）就算是有钱人，而对我来说，赚这么多可能只算中产阶级的上游水平。”
“It’s horrifying,” she added.
“太恐怖了，”她加上一句。
Her horror, of course, is Manhattan’s high cost of living, which has for decades shocked transplants from Kansas and elsewhere, and threatened natives with the specter of an economic apocalypse that will empty the city of all but a few hardy plutocrats.
她恐惧的，当然是曼哈顿高昂的生活成本。几十年来，这样的情况一直让堪萨斯和其它地方来的移居者感到震惊，也让本地人经受着经济崩溃梦魇的威胁。一旦发生，它会将曼哈顿变成一座空城，只剩下那么几个能承受住打击的大财阀。
And yet the middle class stubbornly hangs on, trading economic pain for the emotional gain of hot restaurants, the High Line and the feeling of being in the center of everything. The price tag for life’s basic necessities — everything from milk to haircuts to Lipitor to electricity, and especially housing — is more than twice the national average.
不过，中产阶级们仍在顽强坚持，他们不惜付出经济上的痛苦，来换取在热门餐厅就餐、在高架线公园(High Line)徜徉，以及身处世界中心的自我感觉。而在这里，生活必需品的价格——从牛奶到理发，从立普妥（Lipitor，一种十分常用的降胆固醇药——译注）到电费，尤其是住房开支——都是美国全国平均水平的两倍多。
“It’s overwhelmingly housing — that’s the big distortion relative to other places,” said Frank Braconi, the chief economist in the New York City comptroller’s office. “Virtually everything costs more, but not to the degree that housing does.”
“主要还是住房——同其它地方相比，简直已经极其扭曲了，”纽约市审计办公室(New York City comptroller’s office)的首席经济学家弗兰克·布拉科尼(Frank Braconi)说。“其实每样东西都涨价了，只是没到住房那种程度。”
The average Manhattan apartment, at $3,973 a month, costs almost $2,800 more than the average rental nationwide. The average sale price of a home in Manhattan last year was $1.46 million, according to a recent Douglas Elliman report, while the average sale price for a new home in the United States was just under $230,000. The middle class makes up a smaller proportion of the population in New York than elsewhere in the nation. New Yorkers also live in a notably unequal place. Household incomes in Manhattan are about as evenly distributed as they are in Bolivia or Sierra Leone — the wealthiest fifth of Manhattanites make 40 times more than the lowest fifth, according to 2010 census data.
在曼哈顿，普通公寓的租金平均是每月3973美元（约合人民币2.5万元），比全国的平均租金水平高出了约2800美元（约合人民币1.7万元）。根据房地产公司Douglas Elliman最近发布的一份报告，曼哈顿一栋房屋去年的平均售价为146万美元（约合人民币909.5万元）；而在国内其它地方，一栋新房的平均售价还不到23万美元（约合人民币143万元）。同全国其它地方相比，中产阶级只占了纽约市人口的一小部分；而且，纽约人还生活在一个分配显著不平等的地方。曼哈顿的家庭收入分配状况，和玻利维亚(Bolivia)或塞拉利昂(Sierra Leone)差不多——根据2010年的统计数据，最富有的五分之一曼哈顿人的收入，是最底层五分之一人群收入的40倍。
Ask people around the country, “Are you middle class?” and the answer is likely to be yes. But ask the same question in Manhattan, and people often pause in confusion, unsure exactly what you mean.
如果你在美国各地问别人，“你是中产阶级吗？”对方很可能回答是的。但在曼哈顿问同样的问题，人们就会困惑不语，不确定你究竟指的是什么。
There is no single, formal definition of class status in this country. Statisticians and demographers all use slightly different methods to divvy up the great American whole into quintiles and median ranges. Complicating things, most people like to think of themselves as middle class. It feels good, after all, and more egalitarian than proclaiming yourself to be rich or poor. A $70,000 annual income is middle class for a family of four, according to the median response in a recent Pew Research Center survey, and yet people at a wide range of income levels, including those making less than $30,000 and more than $100,000 a year, said they, too, belonged to the middle.
在这个国家里，对于社会阶层状况并没有一个统一而正式的定义。统计学家和人口学家们各自都使用略带差异的方法，把美国社会整体分成了五个层次，并给出中值范围。让事情变得复杂的是，大多数人都觉得自己是中产阶级。毕竟这感觉很好，而且总比你宣称自己是富人或穷人显得更有平等主义精神。根据佩尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)近期的一份调查报告对中间范围的定义，对于一个四口之家来说，年收入7万美元（约合人民币43万元）的属于中产阶级；然而，各种收入水平的人——包括那些年收入不到3万美元（约合人民币18万元）和超过10万美元（约合人民币62万元）的，也都说自己属于中产阶级。
“You could still go into a bar in Manhattan and virtually everyone will tell you they’re middle class,” said Daniel J. Walkowitz, an urban historian at New York University. “Housing has always been one of the ways the middle class has defined itself, by the ability to own your own home. But in New York, you didn’t have to own.”
“随便走进曼哈顿的一家酒吧，所有人都会告诉你自己是中产，”纽约大学的城市历史学家丹尼尔·J·瓦尔科维兹(Daniel J. Walkowitz)说。“住房状况一直是中产阶级自我定义的途径之一，也就是看你是否有能力拥有自己的房子。但在纽约，你不必拥有自己的房子。”
There is no stigma, he said, to renting a place you can afford only because it is rent-regulated; such a situation is even considered enviable.
只因有政府的租金管制(rent-regulated)你才租得起一处住房，也不是什么值得羞耻的事，他说，这样的居住方式甚至是很令人艳羡的。
Without the clear badge of middle-class membership — a home mortgage — it is hard to say where a person fits on the class continuum. So let’s consider the definition of “middle class” through five different lenses.
若没有中产阶级的标志性徽章——住房按揭贷款，一个人究竟处于阶级序列的什么位置，就往往很难说清楚了。所以，让我们从以下五个不同的视角，思考一下“中产阶级”的定义吧。
The Money You Make
你挣多少钱？
We’ll start with an obvious marker: If the money you live on is coming from any kind of investment or dividend, you are probably not middle class, according to Mr. Braconi.
我们先从一个最明显的标志开始考察：根据布拉科尼的说法，如果你赖以为生的钱来自于任一类型的投资或分红，你很可能就不是中产阶级。
If you live in Manhattan and you are making more than $790,000 a year, then congratulations, you are the 1 percent.
如果你住在曼哈顿，并且年收入超过79万美元（约合人民币491万元），那么恭喜你，你是那1%里面的。
Most researchers define the middle class by calculating the median income for a place, and grouping people into certain percentages above or below the absolute middle.
多数研究者会计算当地的中等收入水平，来明确中产阶级的范围，然后把人们归类到绝对中间值以上或以下的某些比例之中。
By one measure, in cities like Houston or Phoenix — places considered by statisticians to be more typical of average United States incomes than New York — a solidly middle-class life can be had for wages that fall between $33,000 and $100,000 a year.
采用这种计算方法，在诸如休斯敦(Houston)或凤凰城(Phoenix)这样的城市——也就是统计学家们认为比纽约更能代表美国平均收入水平的城市，只要你的年薪在3.3万美元（约合人民币20.5万元）到10万美元（约合人民币62万元）之间，就可过上稳定的中产阶级生活。
By the same formula — measuring by who sits in the middle of the income spectrum — Manhattan’s middle class exists somewhere between $45,000 and $134,000.
而在曼哈顿，用同样的计算公式，衡量处于收入水平中值范围的都是哪些人，结果就是你的收入必须在4.5万美元（约合人民币28万元）到13.4万美元（约合人民币83万元）之间，才算是中产阶级。
But if you are defining middle class by lifestyle, to accommodate the cost of living in Manhattan, that salary would have to fall between $80,000 and $235,000. This means someone making $70,000 a year in other parts of the country would need to make $166,000 in Manhattan to enjoy the same purchasing power.
但是，如果你用生活方式来界定中产阶级，那么为了适应曼哈顿的生活成本，其薪金水平则必须落在8万美元（约合人民币49.7万元）到23.5万美元（约合人民币146万元）的区间。这意味着，在其他地方一年挣7万美元（约合人民币43万元）的人，需要在曼哈顿一年挣到16.6万美元（约合人民币103.2万元），才能享有同样的购买力。
Using the rule of thumb that buyers should expect to spend two and a half times their annual salary on a home purchase, the properties in Manhattan that could be said to be middle class would run between $200,000 and $588,000.
而要按照“买家花在购置住房上的钱，应相当于其年收入的2.5倍”这样的一般经验来估算的话，鉴于曼哈顿的房产价格，可被称为“中产阶级”的年收入特征，就应在20万美元（约合人民币124万元）到58.8万美元（约合人民币365.5万元）之间了。
On the low end, the pickings are slim. The least expensive properties are mostly uptown, in neighborhoods like Yorkville, Washington Heights and Inwood. The most pleasing options in this range, however, are one-bedroom apartments not designed for children or families.
而在低端房产市场中，可选的范围很狭窄。不太贵的房产大多分布在上城区(uptown)内约克维尔(Yorkville)、华盛顿高地(Washington Heights)和英伍德(Inwood)社区。而在这个范围里，最令人满意的选择，是那些并非为有孩子和家庭的人所设计的单卧室公寓。
It is not surprising, then, that a family of four with an annual income of $68,700 or less qualifies to apply for the New York City Housing Authority’s public housing.
因此，一个年收入在6.87万美元（约合人民币42.7万元）或更少的四口之家，有资格申请纽约市房屋局的公屋(public housing)，也就不令人吃惊了。
What You Do
你做什么工作？
“There’s no room for the earlier version of the middle class,” Mr. Walkowitz said. Firefighter, police officer, teacher and manufacturing worker all used to be professions that could lift a family into its ranks. But those kinds of jobs have long left people unable to keep up with soaring real estate prices.
瓦尔科维兹说，“这里没有准中产阶级生存的空间。”有很多职业都曾经可以把一个家庭提升到中产阶级的行列，比如消防员、警察、教师和制造业工人。但很长一段时间以来，那些类型的工作已经令从业者（收入）无法跟上房地产市场的价格上涨了。
A police officer with five years’ experience in New York makes about $69,000 a year. A teacher with the same number of years in the city’s public school system makes between $50,812 and $63,534.
一个在纽约工作了五年的警察，每年可以挣6.9万美元（约合人民币42.9万元）。而在市内的公立学校工作五年的教师，每年的收入在50812美元到63534美元（约合人民币31.6万元到39.5万元）之间。
The shift toward a knowledge-based and service economy has created a new set of middle-class jobs, like graphic designer, publishing professional and health care administrator. Positions that would nudge a family into the upper class elsewhere — say, vice president or director of strategy — and professions like psychologist are solidly middle class in Manhattan.
经济发展在向知识型与服务型转变的过程中，也出现了一些新兴的中产阶级工作，比如平面设计师、出版业专业人士以及健康护理机构的管理者。而在其它地方，能将一个家庭推入上层阶级的职位——比如副总裁或策略总监——和诸如心理学家这样的工作，在曼哈顿则属于坚实的中产阶级。
The same holds true for jobs in higher education, a growth sector for the city.
在这座城市中一个正在成长的领域，也就是高等教育行业，其职业收入情况同样如此。
The average tenured university professor at New York University or Columbia makes more than $180,000 a year, according to a 2012 survey by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Sweetening the deal for those looking to buy, N.Y.U. has offered mortgage assistance and discounted loans, while qualified Columbia faculty are eligible for a subsidy of up to $40,000 a year. Some faculty members benefit from university housing that rents well below the market rate, in prime locations on the Upper West Side and in Greenwich Village.
根据《高等教育编年史》(The Chronicle of Higher Education)2012年的一项调查，纽约大学或哥伦比亚大学的终身教授年薪平均在18万美元（约合人民币111.9万元）以上。为了吸引人才，纽约大学还为计划买房的教职工提供了按揭贷款补助金及优惠的贷款项目；而合格的哥伦比亚大学员工则可以得到一年4万美元（约合人民币24.87万元）的住房补助。学校的一些教职员工还享受着大学住房的福利，他们支付的房租比市场租金水平要低很多，而且还位于上西区和格林威治村的主要地段。
Maya Tolstoy, an associate professor at Columbia and a marine geophysicist who studies seafloor earthquakes, lives with her 9-year-old son in a small two-bedroom apartment in a doorman building on Riverside Drive. Because her building is owned by Columbia, her rent, about $1,800 a month, is manageable on an associate professor’s salary, which averages about $125,000. A similar market-rate apartment on the Upper West Side costs about $6,000 a month, according to a monthly report compiled by MNS, a brokerage firm.
哥伦比亚大学的副教授玛雅·托尔斯泰(Maya Tolstoy)是一位研究海底地震的海洋地理学家，她和9岁的儿子在滨河大道(Riverside Drive)旁一栋有门童的大楼里，住着一套两卧室的小公寓。因为这栋楼属于哥伦比亚大学，所以她的房租大约为每个月1800美元（约合人民币11198.5元），这对于平均工资为12.5万美元（约合人民币77.8万元）的副教授来说，是轻而易举的事。而根据中介公司MNS发布的一份月报，在上西区的房地产市场上，一套类似公寓的月租金花费大约为6000美元（约合人民币37328.4元）。
“I think it’s much tougher for people with my income to survive in Manhattan without subsidized housing,” she said. “I am very lucky to have it.”
“我想，与我薪金水平相同的人如果没有住房补贴，很难在曼哈顿生存下来，”她说，“所以，能拿到补贴我觉得很幸运。”
Are Children the Last Straw?
孩子是那“最后一根稻草”吗？
One way to stay in Manhattan as a member of the middle class is to be in a relationship. Couples can split the cost of a one-bedroom apartment, along with utilities and takeout meals. But adding small roommates, especially the kind that do not contribute to rent, creates perhaps the single greatest obstacle to staying in the city.
要想作为中产阶级的一员住在曼哈顿，有一种方法就是确立一段关系。夫妻二人可以分摊一套单卧室公寓的租金成本、水电管理费用以及外卖餐食的开支。但如果再添小房客，尤其是那些不能为分摊租金做贡献的，就有可能成为你在这座城市居住的那个最大的障碍。
Only 17 percent of Manhattan households have children, according to census data. That is almost half the national average, making little ones the ultimate deal-breaker for otherwise die-hard middle-class Manhattanites.
根据调查数据，在曼哈顿，只有17%的家庭有小孩，这一比例几乎只有全国水平的一半。于是乎，小不点儿们对于那些原本毫无疑问属于曼哈顿中产阶级人士而言，就成了生活水准的终极破坏者。
Not only do children strain the wallet as that one-bedroom becomes infeasible, but many middle-class families have little confidence in public education. Tuition fees at private schools can reach $40,000 a year. So families decamp to the suburbs or hope that their offspring will test well enough to get into the public school system’s gifted-and-talented program, which offers a more challenging education free of charge.
有了小孩，不仅单间卧室变得不够住，让人不得不勒紧钱包，而且很多中产阶级家庭对于公办教育也没什么信心，而私立学校的学费可以达到每年4万美元（约合人民币24.49万元）。所以，人们往往举家搬迁到郊区；要么就只能盼着孩子的考试成绩足够好，可以进入公立学校系统内的“天才精英计划”(gifted-and-talented program)了。该计划会为学生免费提供更具挑战性的教育内容。
“The trauma of kindergarten I still have not forgotten,” said Ms. Tolstoy, who beyond hitting a jackpot of sorts with subsidized Columbia housing, struck gold again when her son was accepted into a gifted-and-talented program.
“幼儿园带来的痛苦，我至今没有忘记，”托尔斯泰说。除了像捡到彩票一样得到了哥伦比亚大学的住房补贴，她又遇到了好事，那就是，她的儿子被学校的天才精英计划录取了。
But to get her son that far, she found it necessary to hire a consultant, costing about $800 for two sessions. 
但是，为了让儿子走到这一步，她发现必须请一位学习顾问，两个学期花了大约800美元（约合人民币4977元）。
When Did You Get Here?
你是何时来到这里的？
More than 280,000 units — nearly half of Manhattan’s apartment stock — is rent-regulated in some fashion. These apartments are either godsends to those who occupy them, or daggers that twist in the hearts of everyone else, left to pay market rate or compete for the borough’s remaining vacancies — 2.8 percent of the housing stock, as measured in 2011. But 30 percent of the residents of rent-stabilized apartments moved in more than 20 years ago.
在曼哈顿，有近半数的公寓存量（也就是超过28万套）处于某种形式的租金管制(rent-regulated)之下。对住进这些公寓的人而言，这是天赐的好事；而对于其他人，这简直就是扎在他们心头的一把刀了，因为他们不得不按市场价格租房，或为区内剩余的空房激烈竞争——根据2011年的数据，当年的空房率只有2.8%。不过，在租金管制型公寓中的居民里，有30%的人是早在20多年前就入住进去的。
An intriguing definition of what helps a person gain entry to the Manhattan middle class was ventured by Jonathan Bowles, the executive director of the Center for an Urban Future, who issued an in-depth report in 2009 that examined the city’s changing class dynamics. “Understanding who is middle class, in New York, but especially Manhattan, is all about when you got into the real estate market,” he said. “If you bought an apartment prior to 2000, or have long been in a rent-stabilized apartment, you could probably be a teacher in Manhattan and be solidly middle class. But if you bought or started renting in a market-rate apartment over the last 5 or 10 years, you could probably be a management consultant and barely have any savings.”
“城市未来中心”(Center for an Urban Future)于2009年发布了一份深度报告，考察了这座城市不断变化的阶级动态。这家机构的行政总裁乔纳森·鲍尔斯(Jonathan Bowles)大胆提出了一个有趣的定义，明确了有助于某人得以进入中产阶级门槛的条件。“在纽约，特别是曼哈顿，要想知道谁是中产阶级，只要看他是什么时候进入房地产市场的，”他说，“如果你在2000年之前买了一套公寓，或者一直住在固定租金(rent-stabilized)的公寓里，你很可能是曼哈顿的一位教师，是稳定的中产阶级；但如果你只是在最近五到十年才买的公寓，或者住在市场化租金的公寓里，你可能就是一位管理咨询师，而且几乎没什么存款。”
Sabrina Dent was born and raised in Manhattan thinking she was middle class. Ms. Dent grew up attending a private school on the Upper East Side. She did not realize what normal life was until she left Manhattan to attend a public university in Rhode Island, where she paid less in rent than her father had been paying for a 12-by-6-foot parking space in the city.
塞布丽娜·登特(Sabrina Dent)从小在曼哈顿长大，认为自己是中产阶级。登特小时候在上东区的一家私立学校上学，所以从未意识到普通生活是什么样的，直到后来，她离开了曼哈顿，进入罗德岛(Rhode Island)的一所公立大学读书。她在那里支付的房租，还不如她父亲在市内为一处12x6英尺（约合3.6x1.8米）见方的停车位付的钱多。
“That radically readjusted my barometer,” she said. Now Ms. Dent is a Web designer in Cork, Ireland, living a regular middle-class life, and unable to imagine why anyone would want to stick it out in Manhattan on a moderate income.
“那件事彻底改变了我的观念，”她说。目前，登特在爱尔兰的科克(Cork)市做一名网络设计师(Web designer)，过着一种普通的中产阶级生活。她无法想象为什么有人拿着微薄的薪水，还会坚持在曼哈顿生活。
“The only artists I know now who are still in Manhattan,” she said, “either made it big and bought, or are still in the rent-controlled studios they landed in 1976, and will leave in a coffin.” 
“我所认识的几位还住在曼哈顿的艺术家，”她说，“要么早已买了大房子，要么仍旧住在1976年他们刚来时住的租金管制的工作室里，而且会一直住到过世那天。”
Values That Define You
你的核心价值观
People define class as much by association and culture as they do by raw numbers — a sense, more than anything, of baseline financial security garnished by an occasional luxury like a vacation, and a belief that things can get better through hard work and determination.
人们经常喜欢用共性和文化来定义阶级，正如他们也总喜欢用原始数字来区分阶级一样。而中产阶级最重要的共性及文化，就是这样的一种认知：最基本的经济保障，点缀着偶尔的奢侈和难得一次的假期；以及一种认为只要坚定信心、努力工作，一切都会变得越来越好的信仰。
“Middle class, to me, is having a pretty good job, enough money to pay bills and rent, and then a little extra,” said Desiree Gaitan, 29, a manager of social media for Shairporter, a tech start-up that arranges shared taxi rides to New York airports. She says she feels middle class even though she makes about $40,000 a year (equivalent to about $17,900 a year in a more typical part of the country).
“对我来说，中产阶级就是有一份很好的工作，有足够的钱支付帐单和房租，然后还有一点余额，”29岁的德西蕾·盖坦(Desiree Gaitan)说。她是社交媒体Shairporter的一名经理人，这家刚刚组建的科技公司专门从事安排去往纽约机场的出租车拼车业务。盖坦说，虽然她一年只赚4万美元（约合人民币24.9万元）（在美国国内更具代表性的地方，这相当于每年1.79万美元[约合人民币11.14万元]），但她觉得自己就是中产阶级。
Ms. Gaitan stays afloat by shopping at thrift stores, picking up baby-sitting gigs when she can, and hanging onto a great deal: she pays $600 a month to share a rent-regulated two-bedroom apartment near Columbus Circle — a place her roommate’s parents found years ago.
盖坦过着节衣缩食的日子，去廉价商店购物，有空的时候帮人看孩子，还抓住了一份条件不错的合约：她每月支付600美元（约合人民币3732元），与人合租了一套租金管制的两卧室公寓，就在哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)附近。这是她室友的父母多年前找到的地方。
“It’s tough,” she said. “I have a good work ethic, and I think I would like to stay as long as possible, as long as I’m enjoying my career. All of that is worth it at the end of the day, for some psychotic reason.”
“日子过得很艰难，”她说，“我有很好的职业道德，而且只要是我喜欢的工作，我会尽可能做得长久一些。出于某种精神层面的原因，再苦再累，一天工作下来也是值得的。”
Are They Dying Out?
中产阶级正在消亡吗？
“Manhattan has serious affordability problems,” said Mr. Braconi, the economist. In the last decade, the percentage of people who are paying “unaffordable rents” (defined as more than 30 percent of their income) has increased significantly, according to a report issued in September by the city’s comptroller.
“曼哈顿有很严峻的承受力问题，”经济学家布拉科尼说。根据城市审计部门9月发布的一份报告，近十年来，支付“承受不起的租金”者（以超过其收入的30%定义）的人口比例已有显著增长。
If that trend continues, it will feed the perennial panic that Manhattan’s middle class is on the brink of extinction, no longer able to cope with the city’s prices and fast retreating to its natural habitat, the suburbs.
如果这种趋势持续下去，就会滋长一直以来的慌乱情绪，人们担心曼哈顿的中产阶级正处在消亡的边缘，认为他们已经不再有能力应付这座城市的物价，并会快速撤退到中产阶级的自然栖息地——郊区去。
It is true that the middle class here is smaller than anywhere else in the country. It is true that price pressures from both real estate and the cost of living are not slowing down anytime soon. But it is also true that calamity has been forecast for over a century now.
确实，曼哈顿的中产阶级规模比国内其它地区都小；也确实，来自房产和生活成本的压力在近期内都不会有所下降；但是同样千真万确的是，早在100年前，就有人预言过中产阶级即将消亡的灾难了。
“Soon, there will be no New Yorkers,” proclaimed the Sunday magazine of The New York Times in 1907, in an article that detailed how families making $1,000 to $3,000 a year — $24,000 to $72,000 a year in today’s dollars — were being pushed out because of increasing rents, and servants’ wages, as well as the crushing cost of ice and coal. Adjusted for inflation, laundry alone for a family cost $115 a week. A pound of chicken? $8.08. Rent, on the other hand, for a “small, middle-class flat in a decent, but unfashionable locality,” would seem to be a bargain in today’s market, at the price of $272 per room per month.
“很快就没有纽约人了，”1907年的《纽约时报周日杂志》(Sunday magazine of The New York Times)就曾在一篇文章中如此宣称。该文章详细叙述了由于房屋租金、仆人工资的不断增长，以及极高的冰价和煤价，年收入在1000美元到3000美元的家庭——折合成现在的美元为2.4万到7.2万（约合人民币15万到44.79万元）——将会如何被挤出中产阶级。算上通货膨胀的调整，一个家庭的开支仅洗衣一项，一周就要花费115美元（约合人民币715.5元）。那么一磅鸡肉呢？8.08美元（约合人民币50.27元）。而另一方面，一套“位置有点偏但尚可接受的小户型中产阶级公寓”的租金，是每个房间每月272美元（约合人民币1692元）。放在今天的市场中，已算是相当实惠的了。
In 1968, New York magazine documented the mad scramble for affordable apartments in a cover article detailing the extreme lengths to which average people went to secure one. “Surgeons have postponed operations, housewives have gone back to work, hippies have cut their hair and families have destroyed their pets,” the magazine reported. “Little hope is held out for the middle-income ($15-20,000 a year) people, career girls who do not want roommates and couples with more than one drawer-sized infant.” Brownstones that had sold for $125,000 in 1958, according to the article, were selling 10 years later for twice that much (in today’s dollars, a jump from $827,000 to $1.65 million).
1968年，《纽约》杂志(New York magazine)在一篇封面文章里，报道了当时那些能住得起的公寓引发的疯狂争夺战。文章详细叙述了人们怎样去竭尽所能地抢一套公寓。“外科大夫推迟了手术，家庭主妇回去工作了，嬉皮士剪掉了他们的头发，家家户户都在销毁宠物，”这份杂志写道，“对于那些中等收入（每年1.5到2万美元[约合人民币9万到12万元]）的人、不想要室友的上班族女孩，以及带着多个抽屉大小的婴儿的夫妻们来说，希望就非常渺茫了。”根据这篇文章，1958年，纽约褐沙石的房子(Brownstones)卖12.5万美元（约合人民币77.8万元）；而十年后，价格卖到了两倍（以现在物价来说，就是从82.7万美元跳到了165万美元[约合人民币514.5万到1026.5万元]）。
Reports of the middle class’s demise also appeared in 1978, 1998, 2006 and 2009, when The New York Observer chimed in with “City to Middle Class: Just Not That Into You.”
有关中产阶级消亡的报道，在1978年、1998年、2006年和2009年也相继出现过。当时，《纽约观察家》(The New York Observer)用这样的标题鸣响了警钟：“中产阶级的城市：只是和你无关。”
But members of the middle class remain, scattered among the elite and the growing numbers of the working poor, in that place where lucky deals and tiny kitchens converge, wondering, just as they did in 1910 and 1968, how long they’ll be able to stay put.
然而，中产阶级成员还是存留了下来。他们散布在精英人士与不断增长的低收入工作者当中，幸运地得到了厨房超小的好房子，想着这样的日子还能熬多久——同这个阶级的人们在1910年和1968年想过的一样。
Ms. Azeez in TriBeCa is pondering the question. The only young people she sees moving in around her are often buoyed by parental support, given an apartment at graduation the way she was given a Seiko watch. As her own friends and neighbors age or die out, she wonders, “who is going to take our place?”
翠贝卡街区的阿齐兹一直在琢磨一个问题。她所见到的唯一一个搬到附近来的年轻人，经常要靠父母的支持才能过活。他们在毕业时从父母那得到一套公寓，就像她那时候得到一块精工牌手表(Seiko watch)一样。而每当她的朋友和邻居过世的时候，她就想：“以后还有谁来住我们的房子呢？”