WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Black plastic covered the doors and windows in an ornate suite at one of President Trump’s resorts on Saturday, as he bonded with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan over a round of golf on a pristine day.
佛罗里达州西棕榈滩——周六，当特朗普总统和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在新的一天通过一轮高尔夫建立关系时，一间豪华套房的门窗被用黑色的塑料遮住了。而这间套房的所在地，只是特朗普多处度假庄园中的其中一处。
The covering blocked American and Japanese journalists from capturing a glimpse of the leaders on the lush private course in Jupiter, Fla. But Mr. Trump’s aides snapped their own picture of the friendly tableau, posting a photo of the men sharing a high-five, with an American flag waving majestically in the distance, to the president’s social media accounts for his millions of followers to see.
遮挡物导致美日两国的记者看不到两位领导人在佛罗里达州朱庇特这处葱翠的私人高尔夫球场上的身姿。但特朗普的助手拍照记录了两人关系友好的场景，并将照片发布在了特朗普的社交媒体账户上，展示给他数以百万计的粉丝。在照片中，特朗普和安倍晋三两人举手击掌，远处的美国国旗庄严地飘扬着。
“Having a great time hosting Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the United States!” Mr. Trump’s post said.
“在美国招待安倍晋三首相的美好时光！”特朗普的帖子说。
This, after all, was the point of inviting Mr. Abe to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach: a chance to have a picture-perfect weekend hosting a foreign leader with whom he has said he wants to develop a close relationship. It allowed Mr. Trump to capitalize on some unscripted moments after an initial period in office marred by antagonistic exchanges with some foreign leaders.
这毕竟是邀请安倍去他位于棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园的意义所在：有机会用招待一位外国领导人的方式度过一个完美如画的周末。特朗普曾表示，希望与安倍建立起密切关系。上任初期，与一些外国领导人的嘴仗给他留下了污点，而在这里招待安倍晋三则使特朗普能够利用一些脱稿的时刻。
The news media blackout was nothing unusual in the annals of presidential free time. President Barack Obama routinely played golf out of sight of the press pool that traveled with him, only occasionally allowing a glimpse of him taking a swing or interacting with his partners.
在有关总统闲暇时间的历史记载中，封锁新闻媒体并不少见。贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统通常都会避开随行的记者团去打高尔夫，仅仅是偶尔允许记者看到他挥杆或与搭档互动的一幕。
But it was the latest reminder that Mr. Trump’s presidency is mixing his official role with the business that bears his name. Mr. Abe’s visit was the first of what Mr. Trump’s top aides say will be many in which he uses Mar-a-Lago, the 126-room, pink-hued and Spanish-tiled castle on Florida’s Gold Coast, as a setting for forging high-stakes relationships with important world leaders.
但这是距今最近的提醒，让外界想起，特朗普在其总统任期内正在把带有他的名字的企业与其正式角色相互纠缠在一起。特朗普的高级助手称，他在马阿拉歌庄园同重要的世界领导人缔结重要关系的情况将会多次出现。安倍晋三的来访只是开了个头。坐落在佛罗里达州黄金海岸上的马阿拉歌是一座粉色的城堡，有126个房间，采用了西班牙瓷砖。
That is likely to mean that the property — along with Trump golf courses nearby in Jupiter and West Palm Beach, where the president squired Mr. Abe on Saturday, along with the professional golfer Ernie Els — will draw increased attention and prominence, with all the potential for additional profit that brings. Mar-a-Lago has doubled its initiation rate for new members, to $200,000.
这可能意味着此处房产，连同位于附近的朱庇特和西棕榈滩的几家特朗普的高尔夫球场——周六，特朗普正是在其中一处和安倍一起打球的，当时还有职业高尔夫球手厄尼·埃尔斯(Ernie Els)在场——都会受到越来越多的关注，变得越来越有名，而这可能会带来额外的收益。马阿拉歌的新会员入会费已增加一倍，达20万美元（约合140万元人民币）。
“We got to know each other very, very well” on the golf course, Mr. Trump told reporters Saturday evening as he stood beside Mr. Abe and their wives on the way to dinner at Mar-a-Lago. Nearby, a line of clubgoers in formal wear maneuvered Bentleys and Rolls-Royces into the driveway as a full moon rose over the palm trees.
周六傍晚，在去马阿拉歌吃晚饭的路上，特朗普站在安倍晋三和两人的妻子身旁对记者表示，在高尔夫球场上，“我们变得对彼此非常非常了解”。此时，一轮圆月悬挂在棕榈树的上空，不远处一些身着正装的会员正在排队把宾利(Bentleys)和劳斯莱斯(Rolls-Royces)开进私人车道。
The administration said that Mr. Trump was hosting Mr. Abe and his wife as a “gift” to the Japanese leader and has said that any profits earned from the stays of members of foreign governments at Trump properties during his presidency would be donated to the United States Treasury, to avoid the appearance that he was cashing in on his office.
联邦政府称，特朗普是把对安倍及其夫人的招待作为送给这位日本领导人的礼物，并表示在特朗普担任总统期间，外国政府成员在特朗普名下的产业停留带来的一切利润都会捐给美国财政部，以避免给人他利用职务牟利的感觉。
It may be a frequent arrangement. Mr. Trump, his aides say, believes in getting to know foreign leaders with whom he will be spending time and taking their measure in informal settings outside Washington.
这大概会成为一种常见的安排。助手称，特朗普信奉通过和外国领导人共处并在华盛顿之外的非正式场合估量他们的品格，去了解他们。
“President Trump is a deal maker, and his coin of the realm is personal relationships and trying to convince people to negotiate a certain way in his favor, so this is what he does,” Kathryn Dunn Tenpas, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who has studied presidential travel, said.
“特朗普总统善于达成交易，他的优势就是人际关系和努力说服人们用对他有利的某种方式谈判，所以他就这么做了，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)研究总统出行的学者凯瑟琳·杜恩·坦帕斯(Kathryn Dunn Tenpas)说。
Mr. Trump is not the first president to make use of a personal retreat to engage in informal diplomacy. George W. Bush hosted foreign leaders at his ranch in Crawford, Texas, while Bill Clinton used Camp David, the official presidential retreat near Thurmont, Md., as an informal backdrop for high-stakes diplomacy, including efforts to forge peace in the Middle East. But for Mr. Trump, his retreat is also a for-profit club that benefits his family business, from which he has declined to divest.
特朗普不是第一个利用私人度假场所进行非正式外交的总统。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)曾在自己位于德克萨斯州克劳福德的农场招待外国领导人，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)也曾把位于马里兰州瑟蒙特附近的总统官方度假场所戴维营，当作进行重要外交活动的非正式场所，其中就包括为实现中东和平而展开的多项活动。但对特朗普而言，他的度假场所也是一个让其家族企业获益的营利性俱乐部，而特朗普又拒绝脱离其家族企业。
“It’s just one more example of using public office for private gain,” Richard W. Painter, a White House counsel to Mr. Bush who is an expert on government ethics, said. “He’s going to Trump this, Trump that — it’s clearly designed to raise the value of the brand and send the message to foreign leaders that you ought to patronize Trump properties if you want to get in good with the president.”
“这不过是另一个利用公职谋取私利的例子，”政府伦理专家、曾在布什任内担任白宫法律顾问的理查德·W·佩因特(Richard W. Painter)说。“他会去特朗普这里，特朗普那里，这么设计显然是为了增加该品牌的价值，并向外国领导人发出如果想和总统搞好关系，就得光顾特朗普的房地产的讯息。”
On Saturday, Mr. Trump appeared to have taken some steps to separate the personal from the political. While Mr. Trump and Mr. Abe shuttled from resort to resort in the armored presidential limousine known as the Beast, the flags that normally flutter on the front and the presidential seals that usually adorn the doors were absent, an indication that these were not official stops.
周六当天，特朗普似乎已经采取了一些区分个人和政治的措施。尽管特朗普和安倍晋三是乘坐被称作野兽(Beast)的总统豪华防弹轿车在度假庄园之间往返的，但现场没有通常会飘扬在车前的旗帜和装饰在车门上的总统印章。这表明，这些不是官方活动。
There were other reminders that the visit was unfolding almost exclusively on Mr. Trump’s own turf. At the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, journalists traveling with him were admonished not to take pictures or video.
还有其他一些方面提醒外界，这次访问几乎仅限于在特朗普自己的地盘上展开。在朱庇特的特朗普全国高尔夫俱乐部(Trump National Golf Club)，随行记者被告诫不要拍照或录制视频。
“It’s a private club,” an aide explained.
“这是私人俱乐部，”一名助手解释说。