Shin-Ichi Fukuoka, a molecular biologist from Tokyo, really — really — loves Johannes Vermeer. He has traveled around the world to visit 34 of the 36 paintings known or believed to be Vermeers.
东京的分子生物学家福冈伸一(Shin-Ichi Fukuoka)从心底里喜欢约翰尼斯·弗美尔(Johannes Vermeer)。他到世界各地去欣赏弗美尔的画作，在36幅已知或据信出自弗美尔之手的作品中，他看过34幅。
And last year he accepted a visiting professorship in New York in large part to witness an extraordinarily rare occurrence: the Frick Collection’s own three splendid Vermeers and three Rembrandts joined briefly by 15 works on loan from one of the world’s best Dutch collections, the Royal Picture Gallery Mauritshuis in The Hague, including one of the most famous faces in Western art, “Girl With a Pearl Earring.”
去年，他接受了一个纽约的访问教授邀请，这很大程度上是因为他想要亲眼见证一场非同寻常、难得一见的盛事：弗里克收藏(Frick Collection)艺术博物馆收藏的三幅弗美尔佳作、三幅伦勃朗以及从世界顶级的荷兰画派收藏之一——海牙的毛里茨住宅皇家美术馆 (Royal Picture Gallery Mauritshuis)借来的15幅作品，其中包括西方艺术史上最著名的面孔之一——《戴珍珠耳环的少女》(Girl With a Pearl Earring)。
A halo surrounds Golden Age paintings from the Northern Netherlands more than almost any period of art. The Dutch masters of the 17th century — among them Vermeer, Rembrandt, Hals, Fabritius — draw loyal and obsessive museumgoers who rival those Wagner fanatics who travel the world to hear every “Ring” cycle.
北尼德兰黄金时期画作的光芒盖过了艺术史上的任何一个时期。17世纪的荷兰艺术大师们——其中有弗美尔、伦勃朗、哈尔斯、法布利契亚斯等——吸引了忠诚、执迷的参观者，堪比那些为了聆听“指环”的每一场演出而满世界跑的瓦格纳狂热拥趸。
Like Mr. Fukuoka, they arrange their vacations, their business trips, their reading, their friends and a good portion of the rest of their lives around seeing the quiet masterpieces created during one of the high points in painting’s history. The Frick show “Vermeer, Rembrandt and Hals” — made possible because the Mauritshuis is loaning out its treasures during an extensive renovation — broke a single-day attendance record during the exhibition’s first weekend. But a convergence is also driving traffic to the exhibition: With four Vermeers at the Frick through Jan. 19, five in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s collection, four at the National Gallery of Art in Washington and one attributed, in whole or in part, to Vermeer now on loan to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Eastern Seaboard temporarily features 38.8 percent of all known Vermeers, accessible by Amtrak. (A reported 37th painting has long been disputed.)
与福冈先生一样，他们的度假、出差、阅读、朋友和其他相当大一部分生活，都是围绕着欣赏这些寂静无声的绘画史巅峰之作进行安排的。弗里克的这次“弗美尔、伦勃朗和哈尔斯”(Vermeer, Rembrandt and Hals)展览——多亏了毛里茨美术馆在大规模翻新期间外借了馆藏，才促成了这次展览——在开幕后的第一个周末就打破了单日参观人数纪录。不过这股热潮也是因为几场盛事凑到了一起：弗里克博物馆的四幅弗美尔的作品展出到1月19日，与此同时，大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)展出着五幅弗美尔，华盛顿的国家艺术馆(National Gallery of Art)展出着四幅弗美尔，还有一幅作品被认为可能有部分或全部都是弗美尔创作的，现在借给了费城艺术博物馆(Philadelphia Museum of Art)，这意味着，在弗美尔所有的已知画作中，美国东海岸目前拥有其中的38.8%，乘坐美铁(Amtrak)就可以参观完这些作品。（坊间曾传出找到了第37幅弗美尔，但始终存在争议。）
“It’s a dream come true,” Dr. Fukuoka said during a recent visit to the Frick, explaining that, as a young man, he fell in love with Vermeer’s work while researching the history of the microscope in Delft, the artist’s hometown. “He doesn’t try to interpret the world,” he said. “There’s no egocentrism. He just tried to describe the world as it was. I think of him as a photographer in an age before photography.”
福冈博士在最近参观弗里克博物馆时说，“这是圆了我的一个梦，”他说年轻的时候曾在弗美尔的家乡代尔夫特研究显微镜的历史，那时他就爱上了弗美尔的作品。他说，“他从没有试图解读这个世界。没有以自我为中心。他只是尝试描绘世界本来的样子。我把他看做是没有照相机的时代的一名摄影师。”
Dr. Fukuoka was so moved that he organized his own Vermeer exhibition in Tokyo last year, displaying high-resolution framed photographs of the paintings in a gallery that he rented, drawing 150,000 visitors over 10 months despite having not a single actual painting. (A show of Mauritshuis works on view at the Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum last year, including “Girl With a Pearl Earring,” drew more than a million visitors over just two and a half months.)
福冈博士被深深打动，以至于去年在东京自己办了一个弗美尔画展。他把弗美尔画作的高分辨率照片放在相框里，在一个租来的画廊里进行展示，尽管没有一幅真正的作品，这次展出还是在10个月的时间里吸引了15万参观者。（去年，东京都美术馆[Tokyo Metropolitan Art Museum]展出了毛里茨美术馆的藏品，其中包括《戴珍珠耳环的少女》，2个半月的时间里吸引了超过100万参观者。）
The line forms early, in rain or bitter cold, for the Frick show, whose timed tickets cost $20 and include the audio guide. (Admission this Friday night and other selected Friday nights is free.)
弗里克这次展览期间，参观者每天风雨无阻地早早排起长队。限时参观票的价格是20美元，包括语音讲解（本周五晚上以及其他指定的周五晚上会免门票。）
In addition to general Dutch masters mania, the show is also benefiting from the popularity of “The Goldfinch,” the new novel by Donna Tartt; the book is inspired by a small, powerful painting of the same title, on loan from the Mauritshuis, by Carel Fabritius, a student of Rembrandt who died young. Heidi Rosenau, a spokeswoman for the Frick, said that the museum has felt the newfound popularity of the Fabritius painting: For every 1,000 postcards it sold of “Girl With a Pearl Earring,” about 800 of “The Goldfinch” have been sold since the show opened on Oct. 22.
除了总体上对荷兰绘画大师的狂热，这次展览还得益于唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)的新小说《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)；这本书的灵感来自于一幅同名的著名小画，是从毛里茨美术馆借来的法布利契亚斯。英年早逝的法布利契亚斯曾是伦勃朗的学生。弗里克发言人海迪·罗斯诺(Heidi Rosenau)说，博物馆已经感受到一股新出现的法布利契亚斯热潮：自从展览10月22日开幕以来，每卖出1000张《戴珍珠耳环的少女》的明信片，就有800张《金翅雀》的明信片售出。
William Thurston, a gastroenterologist from San Jose, Calif., caught a plane to New York just to see the Frick show and attend a lecture on the visiting Dutch works by the Mauritshuis’s senior curator, Quentin Buvelot.
加州圣何塞的胃肠病学家威廉·瑟斯顿(William Thurston) 为了看弗里克展，专程乘飞机前往纽约，并参加了一个关于荷兰画派的讲座，主讲人是毛里茨高级策展人比昆廷·弗洛(Quentin Buvelot)。
“I wouldn’t miss something like this,” Dr. Thurston said. “The history of art and the history of Western culture are what I’m interested in, and they’re so woven together, it’s just wonderful for me to come see things like this.” His passion is not limited to the Dutch; he has flown to New York on three consecutive weekends for Frick lectures about the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini and traveled to Philadelphia, St. Louis and Washington specifically to see shows covering much of the sweep of Western art. “I organize all my travel time around things like this,” he said.
瑟斯顿说，“这样的活动我绝不会错过。艺术史和西方文化史是我所感兴趣的，它们是交织在一起的，对于我来说，能看到这样的东西太棒了。”他的兴趣不仅限于荷兰；他曾连续三个周末飞到纽约，听弗里克博物馆主办的关于意大利文艺复兴大师乔瓦尼·贝利尼(Giovanni Bellini)的讲座，并前往费城、圣路易斯和华盛顿，专门去看西方艺术的展览。他说，“这些活动是我旅行安排的核心。”
Jonathan Janson, an aficionado of Dutch painting who is behind the most popular and perhaps most obsessive amateur Vermeer website, essentialvermeer.com, said that in his experience, a love of Dutch painting tends to peak with Vermeer and Rembrandt.
荷兰绘画爱好者乔纳森·詹森(Jonathan Janson)创办了essentialvermeer.com，是最受欢迎、或许也是最专注的业余弗美尔主题网站。他说，根据他的经验，对荷兰绘画的热爱往往在弗美尔和伦勃朗两个人身上达到顶点。
“For example, there really aren’t a lot of Frans Hals people out there, besides scholars and dealers, that I’ve found,” said Mr. Janson, an American painter who lives in Rome and also maintains a Rembrandt site. “After the big two, there’s sort of a ledge.”
“比如说，除了学者和交易商，并没有很多人迷哈尔斯的，”詹森说，他是一名生活在罗马的美国画家，同时还维护着一个伦勃朗主题网站。“在这两大画家之后，出现了某种断层。”
But that said, Dutch painting fans of all sorts seek him out as something of a high command of amateur ardor, which makes sense given that he says he sometimes spends five hours a day working on his Vermeer site.
但是虽说如此，各类荷兰绘画的爱好者都会视詹森为业余画迷中的佼佼者，考虑到他说自己有时每天花五个小时在他的弗美尔站上，这是不足为奇的。
“It might be hard to believe, but there are people traipsing around the world all the time in search of these kinds of paintings,” he said. “And I guess I hear from them because they want to find somebody else who knows why they’re doing this kind of crazy thing.”
他说，“这或许听起来令人难以置信，但是为了寻找这些画作，有些人会马不停蹄地走遍世界各地。我猜想，我之所以会听到他们的消息，是因为他们想要找到别的什么人能理解他们这种疯狂行为。”
With longing, he added, “I wish I could be in New York right now.”
他满怀期盼地说，“我多希望我现在是在纽约啊。”