Most of the hate crimes in the United States don’t take the fatal form that the shootings in Kansas over the weekend did, and most aren’t perpetrated by villains as bloated with rage and blinded by conspiracy theories as the person accused in this case, Frazier Glenn Miller. He’s an extreme, not an emblem.
在美国，大多数的仇恨罪行都不像上周末发生在堪萨斯州的枪击事件那样致人于死地，大多实施这类罪行的人，也都不是该事件中弗雷泽·格伦·米勒(Frazier Glenn Miller)那种怒气冲冲、被阴谋论蒙蔽的恶棍。他属于极端现象，不具有代表性。
This is someone who went on Howard Stern’s radio show four years ago (why, Howard, did you even hand him that megaphone?) and called Adolf Hitler “the greatest man who ever walked the earth.” When Stern asked Miller whether he had more intense antipathy for Jews or for blacks (why that question?), Miller chose the Jews, definitely the Jews, “a thousand times more,” he said.
米勒曾在四年前上过霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)的广播节目（霍华德，你究竟为什么要把话筒递给他？），并在节目中称阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)是“地球上有史以来最伟大的人”。当斯特恩问米勒，他更反感犹太人还是黑人时（为什么要问这种问题？），米勒选择了犹太人，绝对是犹太人，他对他们的“反感更甚一千倍”，他说。
“Compared to our Jewish problem, all other problems are mere distractions,” he declaimed, and he apparently wasn’t just spouting off. He was gearing up.
“相对于我们面临的犹太人问题，其他一切问题都是细枝末节，”他声称。这显然不仅仅是无意识的信口开河，他已经在摩拳擦掌。
They were Christian, as it happens. When hatred is loosed, we’re all in the crossfire.
事实表明，他伤害的是基督徒。当仇恨四散开来，我们所有人都可能成为被殃及的池鱼。
On Monday, as law enforcement officials formally branded what happened in Kansas a hate crime, I looked at the spectrum of such offenses nationally: assault, intimidation, vandalism.
本周一，当执法人员正式表示，堪萨斯州发生的事件属于仇恨犯罪时，我正在研究这类犯罪在全国范围内的各种表现形式：攻击、恐吓、恶意破坏。
The Federal Bureau of Investigation keeps statistics, the most recent of which are for 2012. In the United States that year there were 6,573 hate-crime incidents reported to the bureau (a fraction, no doubt, of all that occurred). While most were motivated by race, about 20 percent were motivated by the victims’ perceived religion — roughly the same percentage as those motivated by the victims’ presumed sexual orientation. I didn’t expect a number that high.
联邦调查局(FBI)一直在对仇恨犯罪进行统计，最近的数据来自2012年。那年，FBI在美国一共收到6573起仇恨犯罪事件的报告（毫无疑问，这只是当年发生的所有这类事件中的一小部分）。虽然大多数事件的动机都跟种族有关，但其中约有20%由受害者的假定宗教信仰所引发——比例大致等同于涉及受害者假定性取向的事件。我没想到这个数字竟然这么高。
Nor did I expect this: Of the religion-prompted hate crimes, 65 percent were aimed at Jews, a share relatively unchanged from five years earlier (69 percent) and another five before that (65 percent). In contrast, 11 percent of religious-bias crimes in 2012 were against Muslims.
还有一点我也没有想到，那就是在涉及宗教的仇恨犯罪中，有65%是针对犹太人的，这个比例跟五年前(69%)和十年前(65%)的情况维持了基本不变。作为对照，在2012年涉及宗教的仇恨犯罪中，有11%是针对穆斯林的。
Our country has come so far from the anti-Semitism of decades ago that we tend to overlook the anti-Semitism that endures. We’ve moved on to fresher discussions, newer fears.
一路走来，美国已经跟几十年前的反犹太主义活动相隔久远，以至于我们往往忽略了一直存在的这个问题。我们的注意力已经转移到更新更近的讨论和恐惧上。
Following 9/11, there was enormous concern that all Muslims would be stereotyped and scapegoated, and this heightened sensitivity lingers. It partly explains what just happened at Brandeis University. The school had invited Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a celebrated advocate for Muslim women, to receive an honorary degree. But when some professors and students complained, citing statements of hers that seemed broadly derisive of Islam, the invitation was withdrawn. Clearly, university officials didn’t want their campus seen as a cradle or theater of Islamophobia.
“9·11”袭击发生后，人们非常担心所有的穆斯林都被视为一丘之貉，统统背上黑锅，这样的高度敏感一直持续至今。这在一定程度上解释了布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)刚刚发生的事情。该校曾邀请著名的穆斯林妇女权益倡导者阿亚安·希尔西·阿里(Ayaan Hirsi Ali)接受其名誉学位。但是一些教授和学生抱怨说，她的一些言论似乎是在对伊斯兰教进行广泛嘲弄，于是这个邀请被撤销了。显然，该大学的管理层不希望自己的校园被看成是仇视伊斯兰教的摇篮或剧场。
But other college campuses in recent years have been theaters of anti-Israel discussions that occasionally veer toward, or bleed into, condemnations of Jews. And while we don’t have the anti-Semitism in our politics that some European countries do, there’s still bigotry under the surface. There are still caricatures that won’t die.
但近年来，另外一些大学校园却成为了进行“反以色列”讨论的剧场，这些讨论偶尔也会转而谴责犹太人，或是牵涉类似谴责。虽然跟一些欧洲国家不同，美国政界中没有反犹太主义势力，但是在其表象之下，仍然存在着顽固不化的反犹态度。反犹偏见也还没有彻底销声匿迹。
One of them flared last month on the Christian televangelist Pat Robertson’s TV show. His guest was a rabbi who, shockingly, was himself trafficking in the notion that Jews excel at making money. The rabbi said that a Jew wouldn’t squander a weekend tinkering with his car when he could hire a mechanic and concentrate on something else.
上个月，在基督教电视传教士帕特·罗伯森(Pat Robertson)的节目上，就发生了这样一桩事件。请来上节目的拉比令人震惊地宣扬了犹太人擅于赚钱的理念。这名拉比说，犹太人不会浪费一个周末来修理汽车，因为他可以雇个汽修工，然后把精力放到别的事情上。
“It’s polishing diamonds, not fixing cars,” Robertson interjected.
“要打磨钻石，而不是修理汽车，”罗伯森插话。
Polishing diamonds?
打磨钻石？
In a 2013 survey of 1,200 American adults for the Anti-Defamation League, 14 percent agreed with the statement that “Jews have too much power” in our country, while 15 percent said Jews are “more willing to use shady practices” and 30 percent said that American Jews are “more loyal to Israel” than to the United States.
在反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)2013年对1200名美国成年人所做的调查中，14%认同“犹太人在美国权力过大”的说法，15%称犹太人“更愿意不择手段”，30%表示美国犹太人“更忠实于以色列”，而不是美国。
That’s disturbing, as is the way in which the Holocaust is minimized by its repeated invocation as an analogy. In separate comments this year, both the venture capitalist Tom Perkins and Kenneth Langone, one of the founders of Home Depot, said that the superrich in America were being vilified the way Jews in Nazi Germany had been.
这令人不安。同样令人不安的，还有纳粹大屠杀被反复拿来做类比，从而遭到矮化。今年，风险投资人汤姆·珀金斯(Tom Perkins)与家得宝(Home Depot)的创始人之一肯尼斯·朗格尼(Kenneth Langone)分别做出评论，认为美国的超级富豪正面临纳粹德国对犹太人的那种诋毁。
It’s not just Kansas and the heartland where anti-Semitism, sometimes called the oldest hatred, stays young.
尽管反犹主义有时被形容为“古老的仇恨”，但这种情绪经久不衰的地方，并不仅限于堪萨斯州或美国腹地。