In today’s luxury real estate market, where more is more, and consequently better, developers and their architects have been busy designing penthouse additions to affix atop buildings that they are already converting into condos.
在如今极尽奢华才算更上档次的豪宅市场中，开发商及其建筑设计师们一直试图为已被他们改造成共管公寓(condo)的建筑物楼顶，设计加盖顶层公寓(penthouse)。
Developers sometimes seek out conversion projects because the structures themselves are historic and of value. Other times they take this route because undeveloped land in New York City is so scarce and can be prohibitively expensive. Adding floors to the building, particularly when they include an expansive penthouse or two, can help increase profits, but the process can be daunting. Constructing additional stories is often complex and pricey, costing as much as 50 percent more than development from the ground up. And in the case of a structure with landmark status, developers must first secure approvals that can tack on months to the process.
开发商们去争取改造项目，有时是因为那些建筑本身具有历史意义和开发价值；但另一些时候，他们选择这条路是因为，在纽约市，未经开发的土地资源实在太稀缺了，而且地价可能贵得离谱。所以，在一栋建筑物的上方增建楼层，尤其是这些楼层中还包括一两套昂贵的顶层公寓时，就有利于提高利润了。但这一过程可能会令人望而却步，因为建造新增楼层的过程往往十分复杂，而且造价不菲，其成本比平地开发要多出50%。若是一栋建筑物具有“地标建筑”的身份，那么开发商们必须首先获得批准，这会让整个过程再拖延数月。
Still, the economics of a penthouse often make it worth the effort.
不过，顶层公寓的经济效益，往往值得开发商们为此付出努力。
“The top is the best part of the building — it is where everyone wants to be,” said Jared Kushner of Kushner Companies, who is building six penthouses priced from $20 million to $60 million atop the Puck Building, a landmark at 293 Lafayette Street. Mr. Kushner, the son-in-law of Donald Trump, hired a former chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission as an architect on the project. Yet winning the commission’s approval still took six appearances over nine months and several attempts at scaling down the project.
“顶部是一栋建筑最好的部分——是每个人都向往的地方，”卡什诺公司(Kushner Companies)的杰里德·卡什诺(Jared Kushner)说。该公司正在普克大楼(Puck Building)这栋拉菲尔街(Lafayette Street)的地标式建筑的顶部，建造六套顶层公寓，价格从2000万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）到6000万美元（约合人民币3.6亿元）不等。卡什诺是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的女婿，他聘用了地标建筑保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)的一位前任女主席，作为该项目的设计师。然而该项目仍在九个月间接受了六次现场勘查，并几次缩小项目规模，才获得委员会的批准。
On the other hand, the commission unanimously on the first go-round approved a two-story white metal addition to the Cast Iron House, a 132-year-old landmark on lower Broadway, where sales are set to begin next month. Shigeru Ban Architects redesigned the interior and created the penthouse floors.
不过与此同时，该委员会在第一轮审批中就一致通过，为下百老汇(lower Broadway)具有132年历史的地标建筑“铸铁之屋”(Cast Iron House)增建一栋两层高的白色金属附楼。该项目的售楼工作预计于下月（指2014年2月——译注）开始。坂茂建筑设计师事务所(Shigeru Ban Architects)给大楼重新做了室内设计，并增加了几套复式的顶层公寓。
The distinct feature of the two duplex penthouses that will sit at the top of the nine-story building is a Vierendeel truss (named for the Belgian civil engineer who devised it), a cantilever that allows for glass exterior doors to be completely opened, creating an uninterrupted expanse between the interiors and the surrounding terraces.
即将在这栋九层大厦顶部落成的两套复式顶层公寓的显著特征，在于一条弗伦第尔桁架(Vierendeel truss)，也就是一条悬臂。它可以让通往室外的玻璃门完全打开，在室内与周围的平台之间形成一片没有隔断的宽敞区域。
“Being a great admirer of architecture,” said Jourdan Krauss, the president of Knightsbridge Properties, the developer, “I thought it was my opportunity to bring in a contemporary architect that had an avant-garde vision for converting this historic building.”
“作为一名建筑学的狂热崇拜者，”该项目开发商、Knightsbridge Properties地产公司的总裁约旦·克劳斯(Jourdan Krauss)说，“我认为这对我而言是个好机会，可以引荐一位具有先锋派视野的当代建筑师来改造这栋历史悠久的建筑。”
“I find this proposal breathtaking,” said Frederick Bland, a landmarks commissioner, during the plan’s 2012 hearing. The two-story addition “indicates in a very lyrical, beautiful and rigorous way that the same inspiration that was used in the 1882 building is now being reused here.” He added, unbidden, that the design for the interior of the building — which is not subject to landmark commission scrutiny — “is extraordinarily sophisticated and unusual.”
“我发现这项提议令人非常激动，”地标建筑评委弗雷德里克·布兰德(Frederick Bland)于2012年在该计划的听证会上曾说。这栋高两层的附楼“以十分诗意、美丽而又严谨的方式表明，运用在这栋1882年建筑上的灵感，如今在这里又被用了一次”。他未经询问就补充道，这栋建筑不受地标建筑委员会监管的内部设计部分“是格外错综复杂，而且很不寻常的”。
Mr. Krauss bought the Cast Iron House in 2002 at the age of 28. Formerly known as the James L. White Building, it used to house commercial tenants and a branch of Nyack College. After the tenants’ leases expired in 2008, Mr. Krauss began a three-year effort to renovate the facade, among other things restoring some 4,000 pieces of ornamental cast iron. In 2010 he brought on Mr. Ban, the Japanese architect known for his use of unusual materials.
2002年，时年28岁的克劳斯买下了这栋“铸铁之屋”。该大楼之前叫做“詹姆斯·L·怀特大楼”(James L. White Building)，一度进驻了一些商业租户，以及乃役学院(NYACK College)的分校区。2008年，那些商户的租约期满后，克劳斯开始了一场为期三年的立面翻修工作。在此过程中，他恢复了大约4000块装饰用铸铁。2010年，他引荐了坂(Ban)。这位日本建筑师最为人称道之处，就在于他对特殊材料的运用。
“When I told Shigeru I wanted to work with him,” Mr. Krauss said, “he listened very politely for about 20 minutes and then he said that while he appreciated it, it’s not what he did, that he wasn’t a preservation architect. I told him that’s precisely why I wanted him to do it — to design a contemporary addition that will work in harmonious dialogue with the existing structure, which to my knowledge, there are no good examples of, at least not in New York City.”
“当我告诉茂(Shigeru)我想与他合作时，”克劳斯说，“他非常礼貌地倾听了大约20分钟，然后说，虽然他很喜欢这栋建筑，但这不是他的风格。他并不是一位因循守旧的建筑师。我告诉他，那恰恰就是我想让他来做的原因——设计出一栋具有当代风格、又可与现存的大楼主体和谐对话的附楼。在我看来，这种做法目前还没有特别好的范例，至少在纽约市没有。”
The concept behind the building is “a ship within a bottle,” said Dean Maltz, a managing principal at Shigeru Ban Architects and the executive architect on the project. The skin of the building is the bottle, while the interior, which has been completely reconfigured to create 11 duplex apartments, is the ship.
这栋大楼背后的设计理念是“瓶中的一艘船”，坂茂建筑设计师事务所的主管兼项目总建筑师迪安·马尔茨(Dean Maltz)说。大楼的外墙是瓶子，而完全改造成了11套复式公寓的大楼内部，则是船。
The duplexes range from a 2,850-square-foot three-bedroom to a 4,890-square-foot five-bedroom; they have double-height living rooms of 17 to 25 feet. High double-hung windows will be operated remotely via electronic switch and motor. The penthouse addition will include a 3,800-square-foot four-bedroom with 1,530 square feet of private outdoor space and a 4,560-square-foot five-bedroom with 1,430 square feet of outdoor space. Although prices have not been set, asking prices for the penthouses are expected to range from the high $12 millions to $15 million, Mr. Krauss said.
这些复式公寓包括2850平方英尺（约265平方米）的三卧室单元，以及4890平方英尺（约454平方米）的五卧室单元。公寓的客厅都有双层挑高的天花板，从17至25英尺（5.2至7.6米）不等。室内几扇高高的双悬窗(double-hung windows)可以通过电动开关和马达来遥控。而大楼附属的顶层公寓建筑中，将包括一套面积为3800平方英尺（约353平方米）并带1530平方英尺（约142平方米）私人户外空间的四卧室公寓，以及一套面积为4560平方英尺（约424平方米）并带1430平方英尺（约133平方米）户外空间的五卧室公寓。尽管这两套顶层公寓的价格尚未确定，但要价预计会在1200万至1500万美元之间（约合人民币7276万元至9095万元），克劳斯说。
Shigeru Ban Architects also designed the interiors, which include white lacquer desks in the studies, floor-to-ceiling white lacquer cabinetry, and die-cast aluminum door levers. Amenities in the building will include a garden courtyard with 40-foot-tall bamboo trees; a water room with sauna and steam room; an exercise room; and a game room.
坂茂建筑设计师事务所还为该公寓进行了内部设计，包括几间书房中的白色烤漆书桌、从地板到天花板的白色烤漆柜子，以及压铸的铝制门手柄。大楼内的公共设施将包括一处种着40英尺（约12米）高的竹子的花园庭院、一间带有桑拿和熏蒸室的澡堂、一间健身房以及一间游戏室。
One key reason that penthouses can command such high prices is that they often include outdoor space, a prized feature in the concrete jungle of this city. “If you can create outdoor space that is unique just to that unit, it is like having 50 percent of the value of indoor space,” said Ziel Feldman, a developer and the founder of the HFZ Capital Group. For example, if the interior is selling for $1,000 a square foot, outdoor space is typically priced at $500 a square foot. “And if you are on the park, with beautiful views,” he added, “it can be even more valuable.”
顶层公寓可以要价如此之高的一个关键原因在于，这类公寓往往带有户外空间，在纽约市钢筋水泥的丛林中，这是一个备受亲睐的特点。“如果你能为一套公寓设计出独一无二的户外空间，就相当于又获得了室内空间50%的价值，”HFZ资本集团(HFZ Capital Group)的创始人、开发商齐尔·费尔德曼(Ziel Feldman)说。举例来讲，如果室内部分的售价是每平方英尺1000美元（约合每平方米人民币65316元），那么户外空间一般的价格在每平方英尺500美元（约合每平方米人民币32658元）。“如果公寓还位于公园附近，有漂亮的景观，”他补充说，“可能就更值钱了。”
Mr. Feldman is hoping to create such outdoor spaces at the Chatsworth, a 1904 Beaux-Arts structure at 340 West 72nd Street, at Riverside Drive. He has submitted plans for a two-story penthouse addition, but they have yet to be approved, so Mr. Feldman hopes to resubmit the plans after revising them to incorporate the commission’s comments and concerns.
费尔德曼希望能在查特斯沃思(Chatsworth)这栋位于滨河大道(Riverside Drive)西72街340号的1904年布杂风格(Beaux-Arts)的建筑中，创造出这样的户外空间。他已经提交了几份关于建造一处两层顶层公寓附楼的计划书，但都尚未通过，所以费尔德曼希望修改一下计划书，在将委员会的点评和意见纳入考量后重新提交。
“The general rule of thumb is that you are not supposed to see the addition from the street,” Mr. Feldman said. “Since we are on Riverside Park on the water, we are exposed on all sides, so we are negotiating with them to make it as invisible as possible.”
“总的经验法则是，你从大街上应该看不见这个附属建筑，”费尔德曼说，“而由于我们位于滨河公园靠近水边的地方，各个方向都一览无余，所以我们正在和他们商榷，使附属建筑尽可能不会被看见。”
One way to achieve this is to create setbacks from the street. That was the case at the Sterling Mason, a condominium in TriBeCa. “To accommodate Landmarks we have setbacks on all sides,” said Dan McInerney, a vice president of Taconic Investment Partners, which is developing the building, “so this has meant that the penthouse additions have a lot of outdoor space.” The project includes a 5,620-square-foot six-bedroom duplex penthouse with 2,625 square feet of outdoor space, priced at $23 million, and a 4,600-square-foot penthouse with 3,459 square feet of outdoor space that is in contract for $21 million.
要达到这个要求，方式之一就是为临街的立面设计缩进效果。翠贝卡(TriBeCa)的一栋共管公寓楼——斯特林·梅森(Sterling Mason)就是这样的例子。“为了符合地标建筑的身份，我们对各个立面都做了缩进效果，”正对该楼进行开发的投资公司Taconic Investment Partners的一位副总裁丹·麦克勒尼(Dan Mclnerney)说，“这就意味着，附属的顶层公寓部分拥有了大量的户外空间。”该项目包括一套面积为5620平方英尺（约522平方米）、带2625平方英尺（约244平方米）户外空间的六卧室复式顶层公寓，价格在2300万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元），以及一套面积4600平方英尺（约427平方米）、带3459平方英尺（约321平方米）户外空间的顶层公寓。后者已售，合同价为2100万美元（约合人民币1.3亿元）。
Not every building has to create setbacks or otherwise make concessions to obtain approvals for an addition. One case in point is a former parking garage at 12 East 13th Street, which is being converted into a 12-story building with eight units, one of them a three-story glass-enclosed penthouse addition. The project, between Fifth Avenue and University Place, is not a landmark and is not in a landmark district. To avoid having to secure any other city approvals, the developer had to avoid adding square footage to the original structure. So to create the addition, the developer slashed the back of the building off, shrank its floor plates by 25 feet and applied the extra square footage to the top.
要得到加盖附属结构的批准，不是每栋建筑都得在设计缩进效果和做出妥协间做选择。相关的一个案例是位于东13街12号的一处原为停车场的建筑。该建筑将被改造成一栋包括八套公寓的12层大楼；其中一套就是三层高的玻璃幕墙式顶层公寓附楼。这个位于第五大道和大学广场间的项目，既不属于一栋地标式建筑，也不位于地标式街区中。为免去其它一切行政审批，该项目的开发商不得不避免为原大楼增加建筑面积。于是，为了建造这处附属楼层，开发商削去了这栋建筑的后半部分，把楼面板缩小到了25英尺（约7.6米），然后把多出来的建筑面积都用在了顶部。
“The original building was deeper than we wanted,” said Dan Hollander, the managing principal at DHA Capital, which is developing 12 East 13th Street along with Continental Properties, “so by cutting back we ended up with excellent layouts that allowed us to build higher, which provided us with more light and views at the top.”
“原来的大楼比我们想要的深一些，”房地产公司DHA Capital的主管丹·霍兰德(Dan Hollander)说，该公司正在和另一家房地产公司Continental Properties一起开发东13街12号的项目，“所以，通过削减后半部分的面积，我们终于得到了出色的布局，让我们可以把大楼建得更高，也为我们的顶部构造提供了更多亮光和景观。”
Designed by the architect CetraRuddy, the 5,700-square-foot penthouse, which is asking $30.5 million, has two terraces and a private elevator. The building will include an automated parking lot on the second floor, with each unit allocated one spot and three spots that will be for sale. The sales office officially opens next month.
这套由CetraRuddy建筑设计事务所设计的顶层公寓，面积5700平方英尺（约530平方米）、要价3050万美元（约合人民币1.9亿元），有两个阳台和一部私人电梯。这栋大楼还将在二层设一处自动化的停车场，每套公寓可分配到一个停车位，另有三个停车位将出售。售楼中心于2月正式开业。
“The penthouse market is a unique submarket in the city,” Mr. Hollander said. “There are certain buyers that want absolute privacy and must have outdoor space, and they want to be at the very top of the building; those spaces are always in high demand, because there just aren’t that many of them.”
“顶层公寓的市场是这座城市一个独一无二的次级市场，”霍兰德说，“有些特定的买家要求绝对的隐私，而且必须有户外空间，而且他们很想住在这栋楼的最顶部；那类住宅总是供不应求的，因为数量并不多。”