IF you are one of those people who believes that ingredients should always be treated with respect, by all means stay away from Biang!, an excitable name for a frequently exciting new restaurant in Flushing, Queens.
如果你相信烹饪时应当对食材充满敬意，那可千万别去 “Biang!”，这个位于皇后区法拉盛的新饭馆非常刺激，名字也很好玩。
Before they arrive in the dining room, the biang biang noodles, a specialty of the house and its namesake, are punished in ways that might have unnerved the Spanish Inquisition. They are repeatedly swung up and down through the air, slapped on a table, ripped right down the center and then dropped in boiling water. After handling like that, the final application of searing chile oil must come as a relief.
饭馆的特色招牌菜是“Biang Biang面”，饭馆名字也是这么来的。上桌之前，面条们先要遭受一番堪比西班牙宗教裁判所的酷刑折磨。它们在空中被上下甩来甩去，然后被重重摔在桌上，从中间被扯断，丢进烧开的水里，最后一道工序是浇上滚热的辣椒油作为慰藉。
When you eat those noodles, you might suffer, too, but only for a minute. Even if you have little fear of spices, the chile oil can bead your forehead with perspiration and make you blink back tears. Then you emerge on the other side, wide awake and energized, and you understand that the abuse in the kitchen helped make those noodles that much more fun to eat.
吃面的时候，你可能也会觉得有点痛苦，不过这痛苦只会持续一分钟。就算你不怕辣，面里的辣椒油也会让你额头冒汗，眼里涌上泪水。然后痛苦就会转为欢愉，你的味觉变得格外清晰，整个人为之一振，你就会理解厨师之所以这样虐待面条是为了让它们吃起来更有味儿。
All that swinging and slapping stretches them until they are so long that when you lift one from the bowl to your mouth, it seems to go on forever, like a magician’s handkerchief. Even better, ripping the noodles gives them ragged edges that hang on to any nearby sauce.
厨师之所以把面条又摇晃又摔打，是为了把它们抻长。这样你从碗里夹起面条放进口中时，会觉得它好像无穷无尽，就像魔术师的手绢一样。更棒的是厨师还要把面条从中间扯断，让它们的边缘粗糙不平，和任何汤料一起吃都格外入味。
You will want to hang on to those sauces, too. The one called “spicy and tingly beef with wide hand-ripped noodles” brings the hypnotic pairing of chiles and Sichuan peppercorn to bits of deeply concentrated braised beef. “Spicy and sour diced pork meat,” meanwhile, is a sauce that revels in oppositions: the sharp edge of black vinegar versus the supple fattiness of pork, the soothing spice-cake flavor of star anise against the fury of roasted dried chiles.
你也会爱上这些汤料的。有一种叫做“香辣牛肉宽扯面”的面条，汤料是几块味道浓郁的炖牛肉辅以辣椒和花椒的迷人组合。“酸辣臊子”则是另一种完全不同的汤料：柔软肥厚的猪肉丁配上酸味浓郁的黑醋，再加上香草蛋糕口味的美味八角与辛辣刺激的炸干辣椒作为调味。
Then there is the biang biang dish that almost everyone gets, lamb noodles seasoned with longhorn peppers and with cumin so intensely fragrant that it seems to penetrate every taste bud you have.
几乎所有来客都会点“Biang Biang面”，这是一种用尖椒和孜然调味的羊肉面，香浓的味道几乎要刺透你的每一粒味蕾。
Like everything at Biang!, the lamb noodles are a specialty of Xian, the ancient city in central China.
这种羊肉面和“Biang!”饭馆里的所有食品一样，都是西安特产。西安是中国中部的一座古都。
The recipes come from David Shi, a native of Xian, who recreated them from his memories of cooking with his grandfather before moving to the United States in 1998.
所有菜谱都来自西安人大卫·石(David Shi)，他于1998年离开家乡来到美国，这些菜谱都是他根据记忆里爷爷做的菜重新制定的。
Biang! is essentially a cleaner, brighter, more modern sit-down version of Mr. Shi’s food stall inside the Golden Shopping Mall, an extremely ramshackle food court on Main Street in Flushing. He named the stall Xi’an Famous Foods. This may have been wishful thinking at first, when as far as most New Yorkers were concerned, Xian was famous only as the home base of the emperor who ordered up an army of terra-cotta soldiers and horses to keep him company after his death, in 210 B.C.
黄金购物中心(Golden Shopping Mall)是法拉盛主干道上一处破破烂烂的美食广场，大卫·石在那里另有一个小食摊，名叫“西安名吃”(Xi’an Famous Foods)， “Biang!” 比“西安名吃”更干净明亮，更现代化，客人们可以坐下来吃饭。所谓西安“名”吃本来可能只是他一厢情愿的想法，因为大多数纽约人只知道西安出过一个皇帝，他在公元前210年去世，让一大批兵马俑作为陪葬。
But famous is what the food of Xi’an became, and quickly, because Mr. Shi’s cooking was so vibrant and his recipes so novel to customers who did not grow up in China. His menu was drawn from all over Xian. Lamb soup came from the Muslim Quarter. The biang biang noodles are served in innumerable casual shops.
但是西安的食物也很快出了名，因为大卫·石的厨艺实在太出色，他的菜单对于不是在中国长大的人来说又太新奇。他的食谱来自西安各地，比如羊肉汤来自西安的清真区； “Biang Biang面” 则来自西安街头的无数小饭馆。
Another noodle, called liang pi, is a street food as common in Xian as the hot dog in Manhattan, said Mr. Shi’s son, Jason Wang. Cool, smooth, chewy ribbons of steamed wheat starch, liang pi are tossed with wrinkled tablets of house-made seitan and a head-clearing dose of stoplight-red chile oil.
还有一种叫凉皮的面条，大卫·石的儿子杰森·王(Jason Wang)说，它是西安街头最普通的一种食物，就和热狗在曼哈顿差不多。凉皮是一种凉爽、光滑、筋道的蒸面皮，上菜时里面还放着皱巴巴的家制面筋，浇着又红又亮，让人头皮发紧的辣椒油，
As Xi’an Famous Foods accrued a following, Mr. Wang, then a business student in college, began to help his father. He set up a Web site and led an expansion into Manhattan, where there are now three branches. Biang! is their latest move forward, a place where people Mr. Wang’s age might be happy to hang out and eat dishes that their grandparents would remember.
随着“西安名吃”有了分店，当时还在大学读经济学的杰森·王开始过来帮父亲的忙。他给饭馆建了一个网站，向曼哈顿发展，现在他们已经有三家分店了。“Biang!”是最新开张的一家，可以供杰森·王这种年纪的年轻人开心地逗留，吃点祖辈的老风味。 
The menu at Xi’an Famous Foods is the template of the one at Biang!, with some additions. There is now a whole page of skewers, like grilled cumin lamb and tofu skin (surprisingly flavorful in a nutty sauce of fermented tofu and sesame paste). The standout skewer, though, holds one meaty grilled chicken wing with salty, peppery, crunchy skin and sweet, smoky flesh. The other skewers cost $3 for three; the wings are $2 each.
“Biang!” 的菜谱是根据“西安名吃”的菜谱制定的，但也增添了一些新菜。比如 “Biang!” 的菜谱上有一整页都是烤串，有孜然羊腿和烤豆皮（发酵的豆腐皮配上芝麻酱，别有一种奇异的风味，好吃得出奇）之类。不过最棒的的还要算肥厚多肉的烤鸡翅，用盐和胡椒调味，外焦里嫩、略带烟熏味的鸡肉非常鲜美，只卖2美元一串，其他烤串是3美元3串。
Laudably, the prices as Biang! follow the heroically low ones at Xi’an Famous Foods, a nice surprise considering how much more attractive the space is. Mr. Wang designed it, liberally taking cues from downtown Manhattan places like the Momofuku restaurants. Light comes from hanging Edison bulbs, and you sit on polished wood benches at polished wood tables. There are tunes by Beyoncé and Kanye West, and enigmatic propaganda-style prints of pandas by the Singapore artist William Chua.
值得称许的是， “Biang!” 虽然装修更精致，但价格和“西安名吃”一样低廉，非常令人惊喜。这个价位是杰森·王制定的，意在效仿曼哈顿中心地段百福面食店(Momofuku)之类便宜饭馆。在 “Biang!” 里，光源来自悬在四壁的爱迪生式白炽灯泡，木制桌椅光洁优雅。店里放着碧昂斯(Beyoncé)和坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)的歌曲，墙上装饰着宣传画风格的熊猫图片，颇有几分神秘色彩，作者是新加坡艺术家威廉姆·蔡(William Chua)。
The transition from stall to restaurant has not been seamless. The servers’ notions of what it means to clear a table may not coincide with your own, and the kitchen can appear to struggle with the pace. One night, spaghetti-like strands of cold buckwheat noodles with cilantro and scallions were doused with mercilessly pungent mustard oil that stampeded its way into nasal passages I didn’t know I had. On another visit, I could barely taste the mustard oil.
从小食摊到饭馆的变化并不是一帆风顺的。服务员们的卫生观念可能跟你并不一致，厨房好像也在拼命跟上变化的步调。有天晚上，我在这里吃荞麦冷面，它和意大利面有点像，配着香菜和葱花，泡在浓浓的芥末油里。吃了一口，无情的辛辣芥末味顺着连我自己都不知道的通路从嘴里一直冲进鼻腔。等我下次再来的时候，芥末油的味道就几乎没有了。
My suggested strategy is to order an extra dish or two, just in case. Get the cold tofu in chile oil with pickled vegetables and get the crisp, zippily dressed lotus root salad. Get the improbably elegant canapés of rough-hewn pork sausage topped with fried quail eggs, and by all means get the juicy lamb dumplings in hot-and-sour broth. And even though they are served on a bun without much flavor of its own, get either the cumin lamb sandwiches or, even better, the chopped pork belly sandwiches.
为防万一，我建议你先点一两道前菜尝尝。可以点泡菜红油豆腐；或者甜脆爽口，卖相好看的莲藕沙拉。也可以点一份迷你派(canapés)，小面饼上放着一块粗制猪肉饼和一个煎鹌鹑蛋，优雅得不可思议。还有千万别忘了酸汤羊肉饺子。如果菜里附送一块没什么滋味的白馍，可以换成孜然羊肉肉夹馍或者更美味的猪肉臊子肉夹馍。
In my case, the order-too-much strategy ended when dessert began. A cold egg drop soup made with fermented rice was vaguely beery and very peculiar, like a home brewer’s first batch.
不过到吃甜食的时候，我就不会一下子点太多了。这里的鸡蛋醪糟有股啤酒味，味道非常古怪，有点像家酿啤酒的第一批产品。
The one sweet I truly enjoyed was steamed sticky rice with sesame seeds and jujubes, which are not the jaw-fatigue-inducing candy, but fruits that look like olives and taste a little like dates. (Watch the pits, though.)
其实我最喜欢的一道甜食是糯米芝麻蒸枣，不是那种让人吃到下巴发酸的甜食，而是一种很像橄榄的水果，味道和枣椰差不多（不过要当心枣核）。
There are many ways to adapt the cuisine of immigrants to a new country. But the father-and-son team at Biang! have hit on a model worth imitating: keep the recipes and the prices the same, and buy nicer furniture.
移民们有很多办法可以把自己国家的特色食品介绍到新的国家。但是 “Biang!” 家的父子兵的确是值得效仿的榜样：菜品一定要货真价实，另外要选用好一点的家具装潢。
Biang!
Biang!
★
一星
41-10 Main Street (41st Avenue), Flushing, Queens; (718) 888-7713; biang-nyc.com.
地址：皇后区法拉盛第41大街41-10号；(718)888-7713；biang-nyc.com。
ATMOSPHERE More downtown Manhattan than downtown Flushing.
氛围：更像曼哈顿商业区，不大像法拉盛商业区 
SERVICE Skilled at explaining the menu, but prone to ignoring tables once the food arrives.
服务：服务生会训练有素地给你解释菜单，但有时上菜之后就不大理睬你。
SOUND LEVEL Moderately loud at peak times.
噪音大小：高峰期吵闹程度一般。 
RECOMMENDED Chicken wing skewers; hot soft tofu; lotus root salad; sliced oxtail; flatbread buns with pork belly or sliced lamb; boiled lamb dumplings in broth; cold liang pi noodles; wide hand-ripped noodles with spicy cumin lamb, spicy and tingly beef, or spicy and sour pork belly.
推荐：烤鸡翅；热豆腐脑；莲藕沙拉；牛尾；猪肉或羊肉肉夹馍；羊肉汤水饺；凉皮；辣椒孜然羊肉宽扯面；香辣牛肉扯面或者酸辣臊子扯面。
DRINKS AND WINE No alcohol yet; try chrysanthemum or hawberry iced tea instead.
酒水：不提供酒精饮料，可以试试菊花茶或者冰镇酸梅汤。
PRICES No dish is more than $10. Cash only.
价位：所有菜都不超过10美元。只收现金。
HOURS 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
营业时间：上午11点到下午11点。
RESERVATIONS Accepted for three or more.
订位：接受三人以上订位（包括三人）。
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room and the restroom are on street level.
残疾人通道：餐厅和洗手间与街道处于同等高度。
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction primarily to food, with ambience, service and price taken into consideration.
评星标准：星级从0星到5星，代表评星者对食物、氛围、服务和价格的总体评价。