Since his first wife vanished more than three decades ago, Robert A. Durst, the eccentric and estranged son of one of New York’s most prominent real estate dynasties, has lived under the suspicious gaze of law enforcement officials in three states.
自第一任妻子在30多年前失踪以来，罗伯特·A·德斯特(Robert A. Durst)一直是三个州的执法官员怀疑的目标。出身纽约最显赫的房地产家族的德斯特是个异类，和家人已经疏远。
They have followed his path from New York City to Los Angeles, where one of his closest friends was found dead in her home in 2000. They have tracked him to Galveston, Tex., where he fled after investigators reopened the case of his wife’s disappearance, and where he posed as a mute woman and shot and dismembered a neighbor in 2001.
执法官员一路从纽约跟踪到洛杉矶，在那里，他的一名至友被发现死于家中。他们还追踪到了德克萨斯州的加尔维斯顿，在调查人员重新开始调查他妻子失踪的案件之后，德斯特逃跑了。2001年，他在加尔维斯顿假扮成一名不能说话的女性，枪杀并肢解了一个邻居。
Mr. Durst was acquitted in the Texas killing, and was never arrested in the disappearance of his wife or the death of his friend. But on Saturday, he found himself in custody once again, arrested on a charge of murder as he walked into a New Orleans hotel he had checked into under a false name.
在德克萨斯的杀人案件中，德斯特被无罪开释，他从未因为妻子失踪案件和朋友死亡案件被逮捕。但周六，他再次被拘留，当他走入用假名登记入住的新奥尔良酒店时，警方以谋杀罪将他逮捕。
On Sunday night, in the final moments of the final episode of a six-part HBO documentary about him, “The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst,” Mr. Durst seemed to veer toward a confession that could lift the shroud of mystery that surrounds the deaths of three people over the course of three decades.
周日晚间，当HBO频道有关德斯特的六集系列纪录片《倒霉蛋：罗伯特·德斯特的生与死》(The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst)的最后一集播放到最后时刻时，他似乎有认罪的倾向，这种认罪可以揭开30年来三起死亡事件的神秘面纱。
“What the hell did I do?” Mr. Durst whispers to himself in an unguarded moment caught on a microphone he wore during filming. “Killed them all, of course.”
“我到底做了些什么？”德斯特在拍摄纪录片时不经意间对自己低语道，“把他们都杀了，毫无疑问。”拍摄期间佩戴的麦克风记录了他的话语。
In the years since his wife, Kathleen Durst, disappeared in 1982 after spending the weekend at the couple’s country home in Westchester County, Mr. Durst has bounced in and out of jail for other crimes, cut ties with his family, remarried, and sued his brother for a $65 million share of the family fortune. Through it all, he has maintained his innocence in the disappearance of his wife, while also denying any role in the 2000 death of the Los Angeles friend, Susan Berman.
1982年，他的妻子凯瑟琳·德斯特(Kathleen Durst)在两人位于韦斯特切斯特县的乡间住宅度完周末后失踪，此后，德斯特因为其他罪名反复出入监狱，与家人断绝关系，再婚，然后起诉他的弟弟，要求获得6500万美元（约合4.05亿元人民币）的家产。经历这一切后，他在妻子失踪案件中仍然坚称自己无罪，还否认自己与洛杉矶的朋友苏珊·伯曼(Susan Berman)的死有关。
His arrest on Saturday in the New Orleans Marriott on Canal Street was in connection with Ms. Berman’s death, though the Westchester authorities said they are still investigating him in his wife’s case. Mr. Durst was walking toward an elevator and mumbling to himself when F.B.I. agents intercepted him at the hotel, a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation said. He had checked in under the name Everett Ward, not the first time he had used an alias.
德斯特于周六在位于坚尼街的新奥尔良万豪酒店(Marriott)被逮捕，此次被捕与伯曼的死有关，但韦斯切斯特当局表示，他们仍在就他妻子的案件对他开展调查。一名了解调查行动的执法官员表示，联邦调查局(FBI)特工在酒店拦下德斯特时，他正在喃喃自语，走向电梯。他以埃弗里特·瓦尔德(Everett Ward)的名义登记入住，这不是他第一次使用化名。
Mr. Durst is believed to have left Houston in a Toyota Camry on March 10, headed for New Orleans. Investigators involved in the case said they feared that the renewed attention brought by “The Jinx” would lead him to try to flee the country. Mr. Durst will plead not guilty, said one of his lawyers, Dick DeGuerin, who helped win Mr. Durst’s acquittal in Galveston in 2003 and who said he expects to head Mr. Durst’s defense team in Los Angeles.
据信，德斯特在3月10号乘坐丰田凯美瑞(Toyota Camry)离开休斯顿，前往新奥尔良。相关调查人员表示，他们担心纪录片使他重新受到关注，这会促使他逃离美国。德斯特的律师之一迪克·德盖尔林(Dick DeGuerin)表示，德斯特不会认罪，他曾在2003年帮德斯特在加尔维斯顿的案件中获得无罪释放的判决，而且德盖尔林表示，他可能会率领德斯特在洛杉矶的辩护团队。
“The rumors that have been flying for years will now get tested in court,” Mr. DeGuerin said.
德盖尔林表示，“多年来的谣言，现在将会在法庭上得到检验。”
As he watched the documentary Sunday night with the filmmakers, James McCormack, the brother of Kathleen Durst, said, “Closure is near at hand, I feel in my heart.”
周日晚间，凯瑟琳·德斯特的兄弟詹姆斯·麦科马克(James McCormack)与纪录片制片人一起观看纪录片时表示，“一切马上就要结束了，我心里有这种感觉。”
It was Mr. Durst himself who may have set the latest twist in his bizarre saga in motion. Los Angeles prosecutors reopened their investigation into Ms. Berman’s execution-style murder only after Mr. Durst agreed to a series of interviews with the producers of “The Jinx,” Andrew Jarecki and Marc Smerling.
为他那尚在进行中的奇异故事设定最新进展的，恐怕是德斯特自己。在德斯特同意接受纪录片制片人安德鲁·亚雷茨基(Andrew Jarecki)和马克·斯默林(Marc Smerling)的一系列采访之后，洛杉矶检方才对伯曼遭到处决式谋杀的案件重新展开调查。
“These two producers did what law enforcement in three states could not do in 30 years,” said Jeanine F. Pirro, the former Westchester County district attorney, whose office investigated Kathleen Durst’s disappearance for six years. “Kudos to them. They were meticulous. They were focused. They were clear.”
“这两名制片人做了三个州的执法部门在过去30年中无法做到的事情，”前韦斯切斯特县地区检察官雅尼娜·F·皮罗(Jeanine F. Pirro)说。“他们值得称赞。他们非常严谨、专心、敏锐。”皮罗的办公室在过去六年中负责调查凯瑟琳·德斯特失踪的案件。
The filmmakers spent nearly 10 years researching Mr. Durst’s story: his upbringing as the eldest son of a family that controls 11 major skyscrapers in New York; his marriage to Ms. Durst, a medical student who lived in one of his family’s buildings, and its unraveling; his estrangement from his family after his father chose his younger brother, Douglas Durst, to run the business in 1994.
制片人花了将近10年来研究德斯特的故事：他的家族控制着纽约的11座主要摩天大楼，他是家中长子；他与住在其家族物业中的医学生凯瑟琳·德斯特的婚姻，以及这场婚姻的终结；1994年，当他父亲选择他的弟弟道格拉斯·德斯特(Douglas Durst)接手家族生意后，他与家族的决裂。
“We are relieved and also grateful to everyone who assisted in the arrest of Robert Durst,” Douglas Durst said in a statement on Sunday. “We hope he will finally be held accountable for all he has done.”
“我们松了一口气，并且对协助逮捕罗伯特·德斯特的每个人深表感激，”道格拉斯·德斯特在周日的声明中称。“我们希望他最后会为自己所做的一切负责。”
When prosecutors began pursuing new leads in his wife’s disappearance in 2000, Mr. Durst fled to Galveston, posing as a mute woman to rent a $300-a-month room in the Gulf Coast city. The next year, he was on the run again, with a warrant out for his arrest in the murder of Morris Black, a former merchant seaman who had lived across the hall in Galveston. After a nationwide manhunt, he was found him in Bethlehem, Pa., where he had shoplifted a sandwich from a Wegmans supermarket.
2000年，当检察官开始寻找关于他妻子失踪一案的新线索时，德斯特逃到了加尔维斯顿。他扮作哑女，在这座墨西哥湾城市租了一间每月300美元（约合1874元人民币）的房间。次年，他又开始逃跑，因为涉嫌谋杀莫里斯·布莱克(Morris Black)而被通缉。布莱克原是一名商船海员，曾住在德斯特的对门。经过全国性的追捕，他在宾夕法尼亚州伯利恒被人发现。他在那里的韦格曼斯(Wegmans)超市偷了一个三明治。
Mr. Durst convinced a Texas jury that Mr. Black had died accidentally when the two men were grappling over a gun that discharged as they fell to the floor. He testified that he had carved up Mr. Black’s body until he was “swimming in blood.”
德斯特曾说服一个德州陪审团，他当时在与布莱克争抢一支枪，两人倒地后，枪支走火，布莱克在这个过程中意外死亡。他在证词中称，他把布莱克的尸体大卸八块，到最后自己已经可以“在血里游泳”。
But he was still under suspicion in the death of Ms. Berman, a friend from graduate school with whom he had become so close that he walked her down the aisle at her wedding. She served as his spokeswoman after his wife’s disappearance, and investigators have long suspected that she knew his secrets.
不过，他仍未洗脱自己在伯曼死亡一案中的嫌疑。他们二人是研究生时的朋友，关系曾经非常密切，甚至曾在伯曼的婚礼上挽着她的手进入礼堂。他妻子失踪后，伯曼曾担任他的发言人，调查人员一直怀疑伯曼知道他的秘密。
The police had always known that Mr. Durst was in California when Ms. Berman was killed, but could not place him in Los Angeles. They suspected that he was the author of a short anonymous note sent to the Beverly Hills police on the same day Ms. Berman was found shot in the head, saying there was a “cadaver” in her home. But a handwriting analysis performed in 2003 was inconclusive.
警方一直知道，伯曼遇害时，德斯特在加州，但不能确定他在洛杉矶。他们怀疑，在人们发现伯曼头部中枪的同一天，贝弗利山庄(Beverly Hills)警方收到的简短匿名纸条就是他写的。纸条上说，她家里有一具“尸体”。但是，2003年的笔迹分析并未给出确定结果。
The makers of “The Jinx” obtained a letter written by Mr. Durst to Ms. Berman in which the lettering of the address on the envelope appears identical to that of the “cadaver” note, down to the misspelling of Beverly Hills as “Beverley.”
《倒霉蛋》的制片人获得了德斯特写给伯曼的一封信，信封上地址的字形似乎与“尸体”那封信一模一样，连贝弗利山的误拼都一样——“Beverly”被写成了“Beverley”。
In the final episode, a forensic document examiner the filmmakers asked to analyze Mr. Durst’s handwriting concluded that the tics in the note’s handwriting “are unique to one person and only one person.”
最后，制片人请来分析德斯特笔迹的文件痕检官得出的结论是，纸条笔迹中的细小抖动“是某个人独有的，而且只属于这个人”。
Near the documentary’s end, the filmmakers were packing up their equipment when Mr. Durst asked to use the bathroom. He did not remove his wireless microphone as he closed the door, however, and began to whisper to himself.
在纪录片末尾，当制片人收拾装备时，德斯特提出想上洗手间。但是，他在关门时没有拿掉无线话筒，然后便开始小声自言自语。
More than two years passed after the interview before the filmmakers found the audio.
采访结束两年多以后，制片人才发现了这段录音。
Mr. Durst’s private monologue makes for good television. But it is unclear whether the recording of his comments could be used in court, some legal experts said, since they were made in a bathroom when he was alone and had an expectation of privacy.
德斯特的私人独白在电视上效果极佳。但一些法律专家说，究竟他的录音能否被用于法庭，目前尚不明确，因为他当时是独自一人，并且是有隐私期待的。