In an era when drop-down menus and mouse clicks are critical tools for a house hunt, one scenario in particular has become all too familiar to some buyers.
在当今时代，下拉菜单和鼠标点击，是物色房源的重要途径。在这样的时代背景下，有一种情况对于部分买家来说，就实在是太熟悉了。
A buyer scans many online listings until a particular co-op catches her eye. It’s love at first page view: location, exposed brick kitchen walls, price.
一位买家在网上浏览了许多挂牌信息后，一套合作公寓吸引了她的目光。她看了第一页介绍，就喜欢上了这套公寓：她对房子的位置、厨房里的砖砌墙面和房产价格都很满意。
But after contacting the listing agent to see that perfect-sounding home, she learns that it has already been rented or sold.
一切看起来都很完美。但是在她联系了卖方经纪人后，发现这套房子已经有人租下或卖掉了。
As a consolation prize, the agent offers to show a different apartment, swearing that it has nearly identical features. But the buyer quickly realizes, despondently, that it’s not even close to her first pick. She feels duped by an ad for something that she now suspects didn’t exist.
作为补偿，经纪人给买家看了另一套公寓，并且信誓旦旦地承诺，它跟第一套房子没什么区别。但是买家很快就失望地意识到，这套房子跟她一开始挑中的那套相比，连边都沾不上。她感觉自己被广告骗了，第一套房子可能一开始就不存在。
“Of course this happens, the bait-and-switch,” said Nikki Field, a longtime broker with Sotheby’s International Realty. “Brokers are looking for all ways possible to pull in clients.”
“当然，这种情况时有发生，这是一种诱购陷阱，”在苏富比国际地产(Sotheby’s International Realty)做了很长时间经纪人的尼基·菲尔德(Nikki Field)说，“经纪人在想尽办法拉客户。”
Not only does the tactic tarnish the profession, she explained, but it’s usually not effective.
她解释道，这种手段不仅败坏了行业风气，而且通常没什么效果。
“If you start with a bait-and-switch, these buyers will not be loyal,” Ms. Field said.
“如果你一开始就采用诱购的手段，买家就不会再来光顾了。”菲尔德说。
And if in recent months there have appeared to be more of these “ghost” listings — those that hauntingly linger, seeming as if they were available even though they’ve been sold, rented or otherwise taken off the market — it might be because agents are starved for inventory and have little else to post, brokers say. Some aggressive brokers even troll for clients by creating online ads that suggest a listing is their exclusive when in fact it belongs to someone else. This often happens with new developments and is also more common in Brooklyn, where more agents are working individually, than in Manhattan, brokers say.
近几个月来，这样的“影子挂牌信息”更多了，它们总是阴魂不散，看似正待交易，实际上房子早已卖出、租出或者下市了——业内人士称，之所以出现这种情况，或许是因为经纪人缺少存货，没有什么可发布的房源。有些不择手段的经纪人为了招徕客户，甚至把其他人的挂牌信息发布在自己的广告上，还号称独家房源。有经纪人说，这在新开发的项目上很常见。而且，在以独立经纪人居多的布鲁克林，这种情况比在曼哈顿更常见。
Then again, it’s also possible that buyers are more acutely aware of the problem because more of them are contacting listing agents directly when embarking on a search, thanks to a profusion of online databases, brokers add.
同样，买家对这个问题可能也已变得更加敏感，因为有更多人在搜索房源时，会直接联系卖方经纪人，这也是拜网上数据库泛滥所赐，经纪人补充说。
But what is clear is that those databases, especially the national ones that lump together listings from smaller brokerages, don’t always offer clean data, said Rick Wohlfarth, the founder of Wohlfarth & Associates, a three-decade-old boutique firm in Manhattan.
不过显然，这些数据库——尤其是将小经纪公司的挂牌信息整合起来的全国数据库，并不总会提供干净的数据，曼哈顿的一家创立30年的精品房地产公司Wohlfarth & Associates的创始人里克·沃尔法斯(Rick Wohlfarth)说。
“There is not enough policing of the sites going on at all,” Mr. Wohlfarth said.
“这些站点根本就缺少足够的监管。”沃尔法斯说。
Although advertising one unit and showing another may be unethical, it doesn’t rise to the level of breaking the law.
尽管诱售掉包的做法或许并不道德，但也没有到违法的地步。
Agents are free to market a home until a contract is signed by both buyer and seller. Until that time, even if there is an oral agreement, sellers generally want agents to continue to show their homes. Besides, under the rules of many online databases, an agent usually has an entire day to update a site, and so a brief delay is permitted, people who run some of the databases point out.
在买卖双方签约之前，经纪人都还可以推销房子。在成交之前，就算已经有了一个口头协议，卖方一般也会希望经纪人继续介绍他们手里的房源。此外，按照许多网上数据库的规定，经纪人通常有一整天的时间更新站点，因此短暂的更新滞后是允许的，一些数据库的运营人士指出。
New York State’s business regulations provide only general guidelines about how homes should be marketed, stating that “advertisements shall include an honest and accurate description of the property to be sold or leased,” according to the Department of State, which licenses and regulates salespeople and brokers.
纽约州的商业规则只对房产销售方式做出了一般性的规定，州务院是给销售人员和经纪人颁发执照的监管机构，据其规定，“广告当中应该包含对待售或待租房产真实、准确的描述。”
So online listings in New York City are largely monitored by the real estate industry itself, with substantial oversight by the Real Estate Board of New York, a trade group. It represents about 15,000 agents in the city — about 12,000 of whom are focused on home sales. More than 53,000 agents in the city are licensed by the state.
因此，从很大程度上讲，纽约市的在线房源信息是在由房地产行业自行监管，其实际监管机构是纽约房地产委员会(Real Estate Board of New York)，属于行会性质。它代表着纽约市大约1.5万家经纪机构，其中有大约1.2万家主营住宅销售。全市有超过5.3万名经纪人持有州政府颁发的执照。
All the board’s member listings, which the board believes represent about 90 percent of those in the city, are funneled into the board’s listing service, or R.L.S., and many wind up at NY1Residential.com, a public online database on which the board partners with NY1, the cable news channel.
所有会员机构发布的挂牌信息（委员会认为这些信息代表着全市90%的房产）都享受委员会的挂牌服务，这项服务简称为RLS（全称REBNY Listing Service——译注），许多房源信息最终发布在了NY1Residential.com这个网站上。该网站是一个公共数据库，由委员会与其合作伙伴、有线新闻频道NY1共同运营。
Members sometimes decide, however, to tuck away some listings on the board’s website so that they can be viewed only by member brokers, said Steven O. Goldschmidt, a senior vice president of Warburg Realty who also serves as a chairman of the board’s listing service. This typically happens when a brokerage wants to narrow the audience for a specific listing rather than broadcast it widely.
不过，会员有时候会决定将部分挂牌信息从委员会的网站上撤走，这样一来，这些信息就只可供会员经纪人浏览了，Warbury Realty的高级副总裁史蒂芬·O·戈德施密特(Steven O. Goldschmidt)说。他也是委员会挂牌服务的负责人。上述情况之所以会发生，一般是因为经纪公司想要缩小某个挂牌信息的浏览者范围，而不是将其广为宣传。
In the spirit of “co-broking,” or cooperation among agents, Mr. Goldschmidt said, every listing, regardless of where it ultimately sits, must be updated with 24 hours of a sale, unless the sale happens on a weekend or a postal holiday, real estate board rules state.
戈德施密特说，按照“经纪合作”的精神，每个挂牌信息不管最终发布在何处，只要房子已被售出，就必须在24小时内更新，除非销售时间刚好是在周末或邮政假期。这是房地产委员会的一项规定。
But no single official is responsible for keeping an eye out for problems; the board relies mostly on complaints from its members.
然而，没有任何官员负责监管这些问题；委员会主要依靠会员的投诉来行使监管职能。
If agents fail to update a listing, they can be punished, though the process is roundabout.
如果经纪人没有更新某个挂牌信息，就有可能受到惩罚，只不过流程比较繁琐。
After a complaint is lodged, a majority of a subcommittee must agree that wrongdoing occurred before any hearing is held. Real estate board fines for breaking a rule can be steep: A first offense for violating board procedures costs $500, a third offense $5,000; for five offenses, an agent can be expelled from the real estate board for good.
接到投诉后，只有小组委员会的大多数人认定确有违规事实，才能召开听证会。委员会对违规现象的惩罚是比较重的：首次违规罚款500美元（约合人民币3106元），第三次违规罚款5000元（约合人民币31057元），违规次数达到五次后，经纪人就会被委员会永久除名。
Even so, there is no specific policy on how much anyone should be fined for posting a misleading listing. Fines for ghost listings are rare, as are complaints, officials say. In fact, “I can’t remember any in 2013,” Mr. Goldschmidt said.
即便如此，没有任何条款明确规定，发布误导性挂牌信息的经纪人应被处以多少罚款。针对“影子挂牌信息”的罚款很少，投诉也是，委员会的官员说。事实上，“在我印象中，2013年一例也没出现过。”戈德施密特说。
He ascribed that scarcity more to the fact that agents were acting ethically than to any lack of vigilance by the board. He also pointed out that firms tend to keep close tabs on their agents, since their deals result in revenue for the firm; along the same lines, brokers have an incentive to announce closings, to claim their commission checks.
他将这一现象，更多地归因于经纪人的自律，而非委员会的失察。他还指出，公司一般也会对经纪人严格管理，因为他们的业绩关系到公司的收入；同样的，经纪人也有宣布成交的动力，因为可以受到委员会的奖励。
“The end result is full disclosure,” Mr. Goldschmidt said, “but it involves a lot of self-correction and self-discipline.”
“最终的结果就是（挂牌信息的）充分公开，”戈德施密特说，“但是这需要严格的自纠和自律。”
Some members, however, say the board needs to do more. “You can call and complain,” said Donna Olshan, the president of Olshan Realty, a boutique brokerage on the Upper East Side, and a real estate board member. “But there is really no police force, so the consumer is poorly served. In my mind it is more about sloppiness than bait-and-switch, but it’s a big problem, and it’s not going away anytime soon.”
然而有的会员称，委员会做得还不够。“你可以打电话投诉，”上东城的一家精品地产经纪商Olshan Realty的总裁、委员会成员唐娜·奥尔斯汉(Donna Olshan)说， “但是，监管力量真的是完全没有，所以消费者得到的服务很差。我觉得，缺少规范是比诱售掉包更严重的问题。但这是个大问题，而且短期内也解决不了。”
Ms. Olshan, whose firm also has an office in Westchester County, points to that region’s chief online offering, Hudson Gateway Multiple Listing Service, as a more effective online database. Serving 11,000 agents and also used by public, the site is frequently updated by agents, she said.
奥尔斯汉的公司在威斯特彻斯特县(Westchester County)也设有办事处。她指出，当地主要的在线挂牌服务——Hudson Gateway多重挂牌服务，是更有效的在线数据库。她说，该站点服务于1.1万名经纪人，也供公众使用，上面的信息经常由经纪人更新。
But even though agents who use Hudson Gateway can be fined $50 if they don’t update their listings within 24 hours, those fines too are rare, a fact that Gary Connolly, the listing service’s director, attributes to self-regulation. “The good thing about having 11,000 members is that they all tell on each other,” he said.
使用Hudson Gateway的经纪人如果不在24小时内更新挂牌信息，就会面临50美元（约合人民币311元）的罚款。但是即便如此，被罚款的经纪人也很少，网站挂牌服务的负责人加里·康奈利(Gary Connolly)将此现象归因于自我规范。“拥有1.1万名会员的好处在于，他们会互相检举。”他说。
To avoid ghost listings, buyers might instead turn to aggregation search engines like Streeteasy.com, whose information can sometimes be more current than what appears on brokerage websites, said Susan Daimler, general manager of Streeteasy, which was purchased by the national site Zillow last year.
为避免查找到“影子挂牌信息”，买家可以使用Streeteasy.com这样的聚合搜索引擎。上面的信息有时候比经纪网站上的信息时效性更强，Streeteasy的总经理苏珊·戴姆勒(Susan Daimler)说。Streeteasy去年已被覆盖全国的房地产服务网站Zillow收购。
Knowing that consumers often start their searches on Streeteasy, brokers often go there first to mark listings as “sold,” before doing so on their own sites, Ms. Daimler said. “There’s a lot of on-the-fly updating going on,” she said.
戴姆勒说，经纪人知道消费者通常都会从Streeteasy上开始搜索房源，所以会先到Streeteasy上将已售房源的挂牌信息标记为“已售”，然后再去更新自己网站上的信息。“有很多信息是即时更新的。”她说。
In addition, brokers say, buyers might keep in mind that ghost listings mostly lurk in the $1 million and under category, where listings are more plentiful.
除此之外，经纪人称，买家应该谨记，“影子挂牌信息”大多隐藏在售价100万美元（约合人民币621万元）及以下的房源门类中，这类房源的挂牌信息总体也是更多的。
And, they note, ghosts are far more common with rentals than for-sale properties and are more rampant on sites like Craigslist, which has little formal oversight.
而且，他们注意到，出租屋门类下的“影子挂牌信息”远多于待售房产。而且，在Craigslist这类缺少正规监管的站点，“影子挂牌信息”更加猖獗。