Ms. Trump sought a degree of independence, taking up modeling in part to have her own spending money. (“She’s got the best body,” Mr. Trump said of his daughter to Howard Stern in 2003. “She made a lot money as a model — a tremendous amount.”)
伊万卡追求一定程度的独立，去做模特的部分原因也是为了有自己的零用钱。（“她有着完美的身材，”2003年特朗普跟霍华德·斯特恩[Howard Stern]谈起自己的女儿时说，“她做模特挣了很多钱——很多很多钱。”）
But she never strayed far from her father. After Ms. Trump’s sophomore year at Georgetown, she transferred to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, his alma mater, majoring in real estate. She would soon go to work for the Trump Organization.但她从未远离父亲。伊万卡在乔治敦大学(Georgetown)读完大二之后，转到特朗普的母校宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)沃顿商学院(Wharton School)，主修房地产。不久之后，她将开始为特朗普集团工作。
A childhood friend of Ms. Trump’s, Tamara Goldstein, remembers standing on the roof of Trump Tower with her in the summer of 2004, shortly after they had both graduated from college.
伊万卡儿时起的朋友塔玛拉·戈德斯坦(Tamara Goldstein)还记得，2004年夏天，她俩大学毕业之后不久，站在特朗普大厦屋顶的情形。
“How amazing is it that I have an opportunity to change the actual landscape of this skyline,” Ms. Goldstein recalled Ms. Trump saying.
戈德斯坦记得当时伊万卡说：“真没想到我有机会改变这座城市的天际线。”
Over the years, Ms. Trump began to assume more responsibility and autonomy within the family business.
经过这么多年，特朗普开始在家族生意中承担更多责任，拥有更多自主权。
“In the past, he’d have 10 deals going with lots of different lawyers and nondescript employees,” said Thomas Barrack, a real estate investor who sold the Plaza Hotel to Mr. Trump in 1988 and has remained close to the family since. “But nobody really had the authority to do anything. That all changed with Ivanka.”
“过去，他和许多律师和普通员工一起，同时处理10项生意，”房地产投资商托马斯·巴拉克(Thomas Barrack)说。1988年他把广场饭店(Plaza Hotel)卖给特朗普，之后一直与这个家庭保持密切关系。“但是其他人并没有权力做任何决定。伊万卡改变了这一切。”
Her father still has the final say over what to buy and how much to pay for it, but Ms. Trump now personally negotiates almost all of the company’s major deals.
她父亲依然对购买对象和购买价格拥有最终决定权，但伊万卡现在亲自商议公司的几乎所有重要业务。
“She is very, very trusted by me,” Mr. Trump said in an interview. “She has great real-estate instincts and great political instincts.”
“我非常、非常信任她，”特朗普在一次采访中说，“她有很好的房地产直觉和政治直觉。”
Those who have sat across the table from her describe her as atypically calm and even-tempered in an industry often characterized by threats and bluster.
据那些曾经跟她近距离接触的人说，在一个经常被认为充满威胁和恐吓的行业里，她显得异常冷静与平和。
“She’s been thrust into this environment of high-testosterone real-estate males, and she never loses her cool,” said Michael Ashner, the chief executive of Winthrop Realty Trust, which sold the Doral to the Trump Organization in 2011 for $150 million.
“她投身于充满雄性激素的房地产行业，却从未失去自己的冷静，”温思罗普房地产信托公司(Winthrop Realty Trust)的首席执行官迈克尔·埃什纳(Michael Ashner)说。2011年，该公司以1.5亿美元将多拉尔度假村卖给特朗普集团。
In CNN’s Trump family interview last week, Ms. Trump cited her power within the family business to defend his attitude toward women. “So for me, his actions speak louder than the words of many politicians who talk about gender equality but it’s not evidenced in their daily employment practices,” she said.
在上周CNN对特朗普家庭的采访中，伊万卡用自己在家族企业中的权力为父亲对女性的态度进行辩护。“所以在我看来，他做的比很多政治家说的要好。他们谈论性别平等，但并没有体现在日常雇佣行为中。”
Her style may be more low-key than her father’s, but like him, Ms. Trump has also been accused of engaging in hyperbole. A 2010 lawsuit claimed that she, as well as her father and older brother, had in public statements drastically overstated the number of units that had been sold in Trump SoHo to make the luxury condominium project appear financially healthier than it really was.
她的作风也许比父亲要低调，但和父亲一样，她也被指责有时夸大事实。2010年的一场诉讼声称她和父亲及哥哥在公开声明中严重夸大特朗普SoHo售出的公寓单元数，以便让这个奢华公寓项目的财务状况看起来比实际上好。
Mr. Trump and his co-defendants settled the case, agreeing to refund 90 percent of the plaintiffs’ deposits, while admitting no wrongdoing.
特朗普和其他共同被告人与原告达成和解，同意退还原告90%的定金，但否认存在违法行为。
And Ms. Trump ran into some trouble with her own business recently, when 20,000 of her Ivanka Trump-brand scarves were recalled for violating the United States’ flammability standards. They, like some of her father’s own clothing products, were manufactured in China, the kind of outsourcing Mr. Trump is fond of criticizing on the stump.
前不久，伊万卡自己的生意也出现问题，伊万卡·特朗普品牌的2万件围巾因违反美国的易燃标准而被召回。那些围巾和她父亲的部分服装产品一样是在中国制造的，而特朗普喜欢在巡回政治演说中批评这种导致就业流失的做法。
Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, were married in 2009 at the Trump National Golf Course in New Jersey. To marry Mr. Kushner, Ms. Trump had converted to Judaism under an Orthodox rabbi, and she recalled her father wearing a skullcap beneath a huppah erected on the 18th green. Guests were given white flip-flops with the words “Jared” and “Ivanka” engraved on the insoles.
伊万卡和丈夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)2009年在新泽西州的特朗普国家高尔夫球场(Trump National Golf Course)结婚。为了跟库什纳结婚，伊万卡在一位正统派拉比的主持下，归信犹太教，她记得父亲在第18洞果岭搭起的彩棚下戴着无檐便帽。宾客们都获赠白色人字拖，内底上刻着“贾里德”和“伊万卡”。
Mr. Kushner’s father, Charles Kushner, had also made a fortune in real estate and was a Democratic power broker in New Jersey. But he was perhaps better known for his fall than his rise. Not long before Jared Kushner and Ms. Trump met, Charles Kushner went to prison for tax fraud, election law violations and witness tampering. Among other things, he had hired a prostitute with a hidden camera to entrap his brother-in-law.
库什纳的父亲查尔斯·库什纳(Charles Kushner)也是在房地产行业赚取了大笔财富，是新泽西州的民主党权力掮客。不过，也许人们更熟悉他的完蛋而非崛起。在贾里德和伊万卡相识之前不久，查尔斯·库什纳因逃税、违反选举法和干扰证人而入狱。此外，他还雇佣妓女带着隐形摄像机诱陷自己的妹夫。
Ms. Trump and her husband now live in a penthouse on Park Avenue with their three young children. Jared Kushner is also doing his part to help sand his father-in-law’s rough edges. He has made phone calls on Mr. Trump’s behalf to influential Republicans, while the newspaper Mr. Kushner owns, The New York Observer, has been championing his candidacy.
现在，伊万卡和丈夫以及三个年幼的孩子住在公园大道(Park Avenue)的一套顶层公寓里。贾里德·库什纳也在尽自己的力量修补岳父的形象。他代表特朗普给有影响力的共和党人打电话，他所拥有的《纽约观察家》周报(The New York Observer)也在支持这位候选人。
Ms. Trump, meanwhile, has traveled across the country with her father, joining the populist swirl of rallies, polling stations, senior centers and late-night McDonald’s runs. Mr. Trump’s to-go order is two Big Macs; Ms. Trump, who keeps kosher, sticks to the fries.
与此同时，伊万卡陪父亲在美国各地参加平民主义者集会，访问投票站、老年中心和深夜经营的麦当劳。特朗普点的外卖是两个巨无霸；伊万卡则遵守犹太教教规，只吃薯条。
She opened Mr. Trump’s campaign headquarters in New Hampshire, recorded an ad for him in Iowa explaining to voters how to caucus — “just write down the name Trump, and you are done” — and has been a fixture on the victory stage, most of the time while pregnant with her third child. (She cannot, however, vote for him in Tuesday’s New York primary because she did not switch her party registration from unaffiliated to Republican until late 2015, too late to participate.)
她在新罕布什尔州设立特朗普的竞选总部，在艾奥瓦州为他录了一段广告，向投票者解释如何参加政党候选人会议——“写下特朗普的名字就可以了”——几乎每次获胜，她都会登台，而且大多数时候都正怀着第三胎（不过，她不能在周二的纽约州初选上给父亲投票，因为直到2015年底，她才从无党派人士改为共和党人，改得太晚了）。
She gave birth back home in late March, just as her father was taking to Twitter to attack Senator Ted Cruz’s wife, Heidi.
3月底，她回家生下孩子。她父亲正好在Twitter上攻击参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的妻子海迪(Heidi)。
If her brothers, Don Jr. and Eric, have demonstrated a knack for pouring gas on their father’s fires, sitting for an interview with a white supremacist radio host (Don Jr.) or comparing waterboarding to a frat-house hazing ritual (Eric), Ms. Trump douses flames.
如果说她的哥哥们，也就是小唐纳德和埃里克(Eric)，表现出给父亲火上浇油的能耐——一个接受了持白人至上主义态度的电台主持人的采访（小唐纳德），另一个把水刑比作兄弟会的入会仪式（埃里克）——那么伊万卡是在灭火。
Last fall, after Mr. Trump said that the Fox news anchor Megyn Kelly had “blood coming out of her wherever,” and criticized Carly Fiorina’s physical appearance — “Look at that face. Would anybody vote for that?” — Ms. Trump took to CNN to defend her father’s treatment of women.
去年秋天，特朗普说Fox电视台的新闻主播梅金·凯利“身上四处往外冒血”，还评论卡莉·菲奥里纳(Carly Fiorina)的长相——“看看那张脸。谁会投票给它？”在那之后，伊万卡在CNN上为父亲对女性的态度进行辩护。
In the recent interview at Trump Tower, she said: “People ask me from a gender perspective, ‘He said this and this about women,’ and I’ve said, ‘Have you looked at the things he’s said about men? Why would our gender be treated differently?’ ”
前不久，她在特朗普大厦接受采访时说：“人们从性别的角度跟我抱怨‘他这样那样评论女人’，我说，‘你看到他如何评论男人了吗？为什么要用不同的方式对待男人和女人？’”
While Ms. Trump’s support for her father’s candidacy has been unwavering, his emergence as the Republican front-runner has not been without its complications for her.
虽然伊万卡对父亲竞选的支持坚定不移，但他成为共和党领跑者并不是没有对她带来负面影响。
His polarizing campaign has the potential to do lasting damage to the family business she now effectively runs with her brothers. Already, the chef who committed to opening a Spanish restaurant in the new Trump hotel in Washington has backed out, citing Mr. Trump’s disparaging comments about illegal immigrants.
他极端的竞选方式有可能对现在实际上由她和哥哥们经营的家族企业造成永久性伤害。本来承诺在华盛顿新开的特朗普酒店开设一家西班牙餐厅的大厨已经反悔了，称特朗普对非法移民的诋毁性言论是他退出的原因。
Ms. Trump also has her own brand to protect. She avoids advocating her father’s proposals and keeps her praise general, trying to balance her dual roles as Ivanka Trump, businesswoman, and Ivanka Trump, Donald’s devoted and trusted daughter.
伊万卡还需要保护自己的品牌。她避免支持父亲的提议，对他的赞誉也总是泛泛而论，努力在女商人和特朗普宠爱和信任的女儿这两个角色之间保持平衡。
“For all of the naysayers,” said Ms. Trump in the Trump Tower interview, “there are many, many more Americans who are deeply inspired by what he’s saying, and trust him and love him.”
“尽管有很多人反对他，”伊万卡在特朗普大厦接受采访时说，“但是有更多的美国人深受他鼓舞，信任他，热爱他。”