HUDSON, Wis. — Karen Hale averts her eyes when she drives past the Super 8 motel in this picturesque riverfront town where her 21-year-old daughter, Alysa Ivy, died of an overdose last May. She has contemplated asking the medical examiner, now a friend, to accompany her there so she could lie on the bed in Room 223 where her child’s body was found.
威斯康星州哈得孙——这座河边小镇风景如画，当凯伦·黑尔(Karen Hale)开车经过这里的速8酒店时，她把脸扭到了另一边。去年5月，她21岁的女儿阿莉莎·艾维(Alysa Ivy)因为吸毒过量而死在那里。她考虑让现在已经成为朋友的验尸官陪她来到这里，因为她想在223房间的床上躺一躺——女儿的尸体就是在那里找到的。
But Ms. Hale, 52, is not ready, just as she is not ready to dismantle Ms. Ivy’s bedroom, where an uncapped red lipstick sits on the dresser and a teddy bear on the duvet. The jumble of belongings both comforts and unsettles her — colorful bras, bangle bracelets and childhood artwork; court summonses; a 12-step bible; and a Hawaiian lei, bloodstained, that her daughter used as a tourniquet for shooting heroin into her veins.
但是，52岁的黑尔还没有做好准备。她也没有准备好拆除艾维的卧室，女儿房间里的梳妆台上有一支没有盖盖子的红色唇膏，羽绒被上放着一只泰迪熊。那些乱七八糟的东西既让她感到慰藉又令她难过——彩色的内衣、手镯，还有女儿小时候画的画；法院的传票；12步戒毒指南；以及一个血迹斑斑的夏威夷花环，这是她女儿在向静脉注射海洛因时当止血带用的。
“My son asked me not to make a shrine for her,” Ms. Hale said. “But I don’t know what to do with her room. I guess on some level I’m still waiting for her to come home. I’d be so much more empathetic now. I used to take it personal, like she was doing this to me and I was a victim.”
“儿子让我别这样保留着她生活的痕迹，一直纪念她，”黑尔说。“但我不知道该怎么处理她的房间。我想，在某种程度上，我仍然在等她回家。我现在更能体谅她了，以前我只关注自己的感受，好像是她在折磨我，我是受害者一样。”
When the actor Philip Seymour Hoffman died with a needle in his arm on Feb. 2, Ms. Hale thought first about his mother, then his children. Few understand the way addiction mangles families, she said, and the rippling toll of the tens of thousands of fatal heroin and painkiller overdoses every year. Perhaps it took Mr. Hoffman’s death, she said, to “wake up America to all the no-names who passed away before him,” leaving a cross-country trail of bereavement.
今年2月2日，演员菲利普·塞默·霍夫曼(Philip Seymour Hoffman)去世时，他的胳膊上还插着针头。那时，黑尔首先想到的是霍夫曼的母亲，然后想到了他的孩子。她说，很少有人知道毒瘾会在何种程度上影响整个家庭，也很少有人知道每年死于吸食海洛因过量、服用止疼药过量的人有多少。她说，或许需要霍夫曼去世这样的事件，才能“唤醒美国对他之前死去的那些小人物的关注”，全国各地都有人因为毒品而承受着丧亲之痛。
In the wake of the prescription painkiller epidemic, heroin, much of it Mexican, has wormed its way into unsuspecting communities far from the Southwestern border as a cheaper and often more easily obtained alternative. Ms. Ivy’s was believed to be the seventh fatal heroin overdose in eight months in this town of 13,000 on the St. Croix River near Minneapolis. Two months after her death, and before yet another young Hudson woman died — at a “sober house” — of a heroin overdose in October, nearly 500 townspeople crowded into the First Presbyterian Church for a forum called “Heroin in Hudson: A Community in Crisis.”
处方止疼药流行的风潮过后，海洛因（多来自墨西哥）神不知鬼不觉地潜入了距离西南边境很远的社区。与止疼药相比，海洛因价格更低，也更容易获得。这个小镇位于明尼阿波利斯市附近的圣克鲁瓦河畔，共有1.3万居民。据信艾维是八个月来，这里第七个死于海洛因过量的人。在她去世两个月以后，有将近500名市民涌入第一长老会教堂(First Presbyterian Church)，参加了一个叫做“哈得孙的海洛因状况：危机中的社区”(Heroin in Hudson: A Community in Crisis)的论坛。论坛举行之后，哈得孙的另一名年轻女性因为海洛因吸食过量在10月死去，这名女子死于“清醒屋”（sober house，保持无毒状态生活一阵子，为恢复正常生活做准备的地方——译注）。
Ms. Ivy’s death certificate, recently released, revealed that a mix of drugs was to blame; the police declined to specify the drugs since her death remains under investigation. But “Alysa was a heroin abuser, and her addiction to drugs killed her,” said Patty Schachtner, the St. Croix County medical examiner.
艾维近日公布的死亡证明中写道，她的死因是混合服用多种药物；由于艾维死亡的事件仍在调查当中，所以警方不愿说明是何种药物。但是，圣克鲁瓦县的验尸官帕蒂·沙赫特纳尔(Patty Schachtner)说，“阿莉莎经常服食海洛因，是她的毒瘾害死了她。”
“It’s a tightknit community, and these kids all knew each other,” Ms. Schachtner said of those who overdosed. “They were not what you might expect. They were not the faces of heroin addiction we see on television.”
“这是一个联系密切的社区，所有的孩子都相互认识，”沙赫特纳尔在谈论那些吸毒过量的人时说。“他们并不是你想象中的那些人。他们的样子和我们在电视上看到的那些瘾君子不同。”
Ms. Ivy was moderately functional in the outside world, holding down jobs at places like Walmart and Subway and maintaining a serious if tempestuous relationship with her boyfriend. At home, though, she was increasingly “like a tornado,” constantly locking horns with her mother. (Her father died in 2008.)
艾维还算可以应付外面的世界，她在沃尔玛(Walmart)和赛百味(Subway)这样的地方打工，与男友的关系虽然起起落落，但也称得上是在认真相处。但是在家里，她却越来越“像一阵龙卷风”，经常与母亲争吵。（艾维的父亲已于2008年去世。）
“She screamed, lied to me constantly and stole everything that wasn’t locked up or nailed down — my jewelry, my TV, my clothes, my pots and pans,” Ms. Hale said. “It felt like such a violation, but what do you do? Do you call the police on your own child? She was always trying to stop it. She knew how deeply it was hurting me. She would leave me sweet little notes. But then she would disappear for days, crash a car, tell me she hated me.
“她会大喊大叫，还经常对我撒谎。所有没被锁起来，或者拆不下来的东西，都被她偷走了——我的首饰、电视机、衣服、锅碗瓢盆，”黑尔说。“她这样做让我十分困扰，但是你能怎么办？能打电话让警察来抓自己的孩子吗？她总想停下来，她知道这样做会让我深受伤害。她会给我留字条，写些很贴心的话。但接着她又会消失几天，撞坏汽车，对我说她恨我。”
“She was in the grip of something beyond her control, but I would get angry and I would feel shame,” Ms. Hale said. “My friends would be bragging to me about their kids’ getting accepted to college, and what was I supposed to say? ‘She only put one needle in her arm today’?”
“她已经失去了自控能力，但是我会很生气，而且还会感到难堪，”黑尔说。“朋友都向我夸耀孩子被大学录取了，可我该说些什么？‘她今天只往自己胳膊上扎了一针’？”
Occasionally, her daughter would drop her guard. Once, Ms. Hale found her sobbing, arguing with her reflection in the bathroom mirror: “You are an addict! But I don’t want to be an addict!” Ms. Ivy let her mother try to detoxify her, using hot baths, Epsom salts, ibuprofen and diarrhea medication.
有时，女儿也会真情流露。有一次，黑尔看到女儿在哭泣，在和浴室镜子中的自己争吵：“你有毒瘾！可我不想有毒瘾！”艾维曾让母亲尝试用热水浴、泻盐、布洛芬和止泻药给自己戒毒。
“It was like an exorcism,” Ms. Hale said.
“就像驱魔一样，”黑尔说。
It did not work. Eventually, Ms. Hale did call the police, and her daughter was arrested on a charge of disorderly conduct. She had other encounters with the law, too, and this got her help: a short stint in detox, courtesy of the county. But the government would not pay for inpatient treatment, and Ms. Hale, uninsured, could not afford to send her daughter an hour away to Hazelden, one of the best-known rehab programs in the country.
完全没用。最后，黑尔还是给警察打了电话，随后女儿因为妨碍治安被捕。她过去也曾因为其他原因和法律打过交道，不过这次对她有所帮助：承蒙县里的关照，在戒毒所短暂逗留了一阵。但是政府不愿意花钱让她入院治疗，而没有保险的黑尔又没钱把女儿送到离家有一小时车程的海瑟顿治疗中心(Hazelden)，那是县里最有名的戒毒机构之一。
Still, after the detox, in early 2013, Ms. Ivy abstained from heroin for 64 days. To mark a change, she peroxided her hair. Ms. Hale told her that she looked like Marilyn Monroe. “More like Gwen Stefani,” her daughter replied.
但是在2013年初，经过戒毒所的治疗，艾维有64天没有碰过海洛因。为了作纪念，她还去漂了头发。黑尔对她说，她看起来很像玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)。然后女儿回答，“更像格温·斯特芬妮(Gwen Stefani)。”
During that period, Ms. Hale was shuttling to Michigan to care for her ailing mother. In mid-May, she answered the phone there. Her son, Collin Ivy, said: “Mom, are you sitting down? You need to. It’s bad, Mama. It’s Alysa.”
那段时间，黑尔要去密歇根州照顾生病的母亲。5月中旬，她在那里接了个电话。她的儿子科林·艾维(Collin Ivy)说：“妈妈，你是坐着的吗？你得坐下来，是个坏消息，妈妈。阿莉莎出事了。”
When Ms. Hale came face to face with the medical examiner for the first time, she said, “I knew in my heart that one day I would meet you.”
黑尔第一次与验尸官面对面的时候说，“我心里知道，总有一天我会见到你的。”
Ms. Hale’s mother died after Alysa. Collin graduated from college and moved to Colorado for a job. “Karen could have curled up in a ball and hidden away,” said Ms. Schachtner, the medical examiner. Instead she set off on a quest to get closer to her daughter. She grilled Ms. Ivy’s friends and retraced her steps, even visiting underground “rig hubs,” injection centers where addicts use clean needles and have access to naloxone, an overdose reversal medication.
阿莉莎死后，黑尔的母亲也过世了。科林大学毕业后，搬到了科罗拉多州去找工作。“凯伦本可以避不见人，躲起来，”验尸官沙赫特纳尔说。但是，她开始寻找女儿的足迹，希望能进一步了解女儿。她对艾维的朋友严加盘问，然后重走了女儿去过的地方，她甚至还去了地下“扎针点”(rig hub)，也就是注射毒品的地方。在那里，吸毒者可以使用干净的针头，而且还能弄到吸毒过量后用来急救的药物纳洛酮。
Gradually, Ms. Hale said, her fear and judgmental attitude about addiction have given way to compassion and activism. Never before political — she did not know the mayor’s name — she has now testified at the State Capitol, advocating a broader use of naloxone and a “good Samaritan law” that would grant limited immunity from drug prosecutions to those who call 911 or otherwise help an overdose victim.
黑尔说，渐渐地，她对毒品上瘾的恐惧和批判态度，开始被同情和积极行动所取代。她以前从来不关心政治，连市长的名字都不知道，但现在却在州议会发表证词，呼吁将纳洛酮投入更广泛的使用，并呼吁通过一项鼓励救人于危难的新法律，向那些拨打911或以其他方式帮助吸毒过量者的人，在涉及毒品的公诉案件中赋予一定的豁免权。
She has also taken under wing seven young addicts, coaching them on how to reveal their problems to their parents, preaching to them about safe needles and naloxone, and giving them an ear.
她还在照顾七名年轻的吸毒者，教他们如何向父母倾诉问题，让他们了解安全的针头和纳洛酮，并且倾听他们的心声。
“I know my boundaries,” Ms. Hale said. “I will not give them money. I will not let them come to my home. If they are hungry, I will meet them at McDonald’s. I’ll take them to a clinic to be assessed, drive them to a treatment hospital.”
“我心里有个界限，”黑尔说。“我不会给他们钱，也不会让他们来我家。如果他们饿了，我就会在麦当劳与他们见面。我会带他们去诊所接受诊断，开车带他们去医院接受治疗。”
“It soothes some of the guilt, fills some of the void,” she said. “Basically, I wish there had been a Karen out there helping my daughter.”
“这样做多少能减轻我的负罪感，在某种程度上填补我心里的空洞，”她说。“老实说，我真希望当时有个凯伦在帮助我的女儿。”