Twice a month for a year, Lance Price, a microbiologist at George Washington University, sent his researchers out to buy every brand of chicken, turkey and pork on sale in each of the major grocery stores in Flagstaff, Ariz. As scientists pushed carts heaped with meat through the aisles, curious shoppers sometimes asked if they were on the Atkins diet.
兰斯·普赖斯(Lance Price)是乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)的一名微生物学家。在一年期间，他每月两次让他的研究人员从美国亚利桑那州弗拉格斯塔夫市的各个主要的副食品商店里购买所有品牌的鸡肉、火鸡肉和猪肉。当科学家们推着满载肉食的推车走过过道时，不时有好奇的顾客询问他们是否正在尝试阿特金斯饮食法(Atkins diet)。
In fact, Professor Price and his team are trying to answer worrisome questions about the spread of antibiotic-resistant germs to people from animals raised on industrial farms. Specifically, they are trying to figure out how many people in one American city are getting urinary infections from meat from the grocery store.
事实上，普赖斯教授和他的研究团队此举旨在就抗生素耐药菌从工业化农场饲养的动物向人类的传播，为一系列令人担忧的问题寻求答案。具体而言，他们试图计算出在一个美国城市中，有多少人会因副食品商店出售的肉类而发生尿路感染。
Professor Price describes himself as something of a hoarder. His own freezer is packed with a hodgepodge of samples swabbed from people’s sinuses and inner ears, and even water from a hookah pipe. But the thousands of containers of broth from the meat collected in Flagstaff, where his nonprofit research institute is based, are all neatly packed into freezers there, marked with bar codes to identify them.
普赖斯教授经常戏称自己是某种囤积癖患者。他自己的冰柜就像是个样本大杂烩，塞满了人类鼻窦和内耳的拭子样本，甚至还有水烟管中水的样本。但是，在他位于弗拉格斯塔夫市的非营利性研究机构的冰柜里，整整齐齐地排列着成千上万个容器，其上标有识别条码，内里则分别装着从该市收集的肉类制成的肉汁。
He is now using the power of genetic sequencing in an ambitious attempt to precisely match germs in the meat with those in women with urinary infections. One recent day, he was down on his hands and knees in his university office in Washington, studying a family tree of germs from some of the meat samples, a printout of more than 25 pages that unfurled like a roll of paper towels. Its lines and numbers offered early clues to Professor Price’s central question: How many women in Flagstaff get urinary infections from grocery store meat? He expects preliminary answers this fall.
普赖斯教授雄心勃勃，他试图借助现代基因测序的力量，将肉类中的病菌与患尿路感染的女性体内的病菌精确地匹配起来。最近的一天，他在华盛顿他的大学办公室里研究其中某些肉类中的病菌的谱系树。这些图谱打印出来超过了25页，像卷纸一样铺了一地，以至他不得不手足并用地趴在地上。普赖斯教授期望这些图谱上的线条和数字能为他所关心的核心问题提供早期线索：在弗拉格斯塔夫市，有多少女性因副食品商店的肉类而发生尿路感染？他预计初步的答案能在今年秋天揭晓。
Researchers have been warning for years that antibiotics — miracle drugs that changed the course of human health in the 20th century — are losing their power. Some warn that if the trend isn’t halted, there could be a return to the time before antibiotics when people died from ordinary infections and children did not survive strep throat. Currently, drug resistant bacteria cause about 100,000 deaths a year, but mostly among patients with weakened immune systems, children and the elderly.
多年来，研究人员一直在警示人们，抗生素这一在20世纪改变了人类健康进程的神奇药物正逐渐失去它们的魔力。有人警告说，如果不对这种趋势加以遏止，人类很有可能会再度堕入普通感染足以致人死地，而区区脓毒性咽喉炎将夺去儿童生命的黑暗时代。目前，每年因耐药性细菌导致的死亡达10万例左右，但其中大多数是免疫力低下的患者、儿童和老年人。
There is broad consensus that overuse of antibiotics has caused growing resistance to the medicines. Many scientists say evidence is mounting that heavy use of antibiotics to promote faster growth in farm animals is a major culprit, creating a reservoir of drug resistant bugs that are finding their way into communities. More than 70 percent of all the antibiotics used in the United States are given to animals.
关于滥用抗生素引起耐药性日渐增加这一点，人们已达成了广泛的共识。科学家们纷纷表示，有越来越多的证据显示，在农场里大量使用抗生素来促进动物生长是一大罪魁祸首，该行为给耐药菌提供了储主，使得这些病菌得以无孔不入地蔓延至人类社区。美国使用的所有抗生素中，有70%以上都用于动物。
Agribusiness groups disagree and say the main problem is overuse of antibiotic treatments for people. Bugs rarely migrate from animals to people, and even when they do, the risk they pose to human health is negligible, the industry contends.
农业集团并不同意这一指控，他们认为人类过度使用抗生素治疗才是最主要的问题，并辩称，病菌很少从动物传染给人类，且即使真的发生这种情况，它们对人类健康造成的风险也可以忽略不计。
Scientists say genetic sequencing will bring greater certainty to the debate. They will be able to trace germs in people to their origins, be it from a farm animal or other patients in a hospital. Representative Louise Slaughter, a Democrat from New York who has pushed for legislation to control antibiotic use on farms, said such evidence would be the “smoking gun” that would settle the issue.
科学家们表示，基因测序将为这场辩论带来更大的确定性。在该技术的帮助下，他们将能够跟踪人体内病菌的起源，并追溯它们究竟是来自农场的养殖动物还是来自医院里的其他患者。来自纽约的民主党众议员路易丝·斯劳特(Louise Slaughter)一直致力于推动立法来控制农场中的抗生素使用，她也相信这类确凿的证据应足以解决争议。
Professor Price is seeking to quantify how extensively drug-resistant bugs in animals are infecting people. He is trying to do that by analyzing the full genetic makeup of germs collected from both grocery store meat and people in Flagstaff last year. The plummeting cost of genomic sequencing has made his research possible.
普赖斯教授一直在寻求一种方法，用以量化动物中的耐药性病菌感染人类的广泛程度。去年，他从弗拉格斯塔夫市副食品商店出售的肉类中和该市人群体内均收集了病菌样本，并尝试通过分析这两类样本的全基因组成来达成他的目标。随着基因组测序成本的直线下降，他的研究构想正逐步实现。
He is comparing the genetic sequences of E. coli germs resistant to multiple antibiotics found in the meat samples to the ones that have caused urinary tract infections in people (mostly women).
他从肉类样本中发现了耐多种抗生素的耐药性大肠杆菌，并将其与导致人类（大多数为女性）尿路感染的细菌进行了基因序列比较。
Urinary infections were chosen because they are so common. American women get more than eight million of them a year. In rare cases the infections enter the bloodstream and are fatal.
科学家们选择泌尿系统感染作为研究对象的原因在于这种疾病非常普遍。在美国，每年约有800万以上女性罹患此病。在罕见病例中，感染还可进入血液，造成致命危险。
Resistant bacteria in meat are believed to cause only a fraction of such infections, but even that would account for infections in several hundred thousand people annually. The E. coli germ that Professor Price has chosen can be deadly, and is made even more dangerous by its tendency to resist antibiotics.
虽然人们认为，此类感染中仅有一小部分是肉类中的耐药性细菌所导致，但即使如此，其年感染人数也可达数十万。普赖斯教授选择的这一种大肠杆菌可能具有致命性，如果它们出现了抗生素耐药性倾向，势必将更加危险。
The infection happens when meat containing the germ is eaten, grows in the gut, and then is introduced into the urethra. Dr. Price said the germ could cause infection in other ways, such as through a cut while slicing raw meat. The bugs are promiscuous, so once they get into people, they can mutate and travel more easily among people. A new strain of the antibiotic-resistant bug MRSA, for example, was first detected in people in Holland in 2003, and now represents 40 percent of the MRSA infections in humans in that country, according to Jan Kluytmans, a Dutch researcher. That same strain was common in pigs on farms before it was found in people, scientists say. Dr. Price, 44, began his career testing anthrax for resistance to the Cipro antibiotic for biodefense research in the 1990s. His interest in public health led him to antibiotic resistance in the early 2000s. It seemed like a less theoretical threat.
当人们食用含有这些病菌的肉类时就会发生感染。病菌在肠道内生长，然后进入尿道。普赖斯博士称，这些病菌也可能通过其他方式，如切割生肉时的割伤等导致感染。由于它们可以自由杂交，因此一旦进入人体，很容易发生变异，并在人与人之间传播。例如2003年，人们在荷兰首次在人体内检出了一种新型抗生素耐药性MRSA菌株，而今，据荷兰研究人员扬·克鲁曼斯(Jan Kluytmans)称，该菌株在该国的人类MRSA感染中所占的比例已达40%。科学家们还指出，在人体内发现该菌株之前，它在农场猪中十分常见。现年44岁的普赖斯博士早在20世纪90年代就开始了他的职业生涯，在生物防御研究中对炭疽的环丙沙星(Cipro)抗生素耐药性进行测试。21世纪初，对公共卫生领域的兴趣引导他踏足抗生素耐药性研究，因为这对人类而言似乎是更加实际的威胁。
First line antibiotics were no longer curing basic infections, and doctors were concerned. “I thought, ‘Wow this is so obviously crazy, I have to do something about this,’ ” he said. He has done his research on antibiotics at a nonprofit founded in 2002, the Translational Genomics Research Institute, in Phoenix. His lab in Flagstaff, an affiliate, is financed mostly by federal sources, including the National Institutes of Health and the Defense Department.
一线抗生素不再能治愈基本的感染，这让医生们忧心忡忡。“我想：‘哇，这糟透了，我必须为此做点什么，’ ”他说。他在一家成立于2002年的非营利机构，位于凤凰城的翻译基因组学研究院(Translational Genomics Research Institute)完成了关于抗生素的研究。他在弗拉格斯塔夫市的实验室是该院的附属机构，主要的资助来源于联邦政府，包括美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)和国防部(Defense Department)等。
Dr. Price, trained in epidemiology and microbiology, has been sounding the alarm about antibiotic resistance for a number of years. He recently told a Congressional committee that evidence of the ill effects of antibiotics in farming was overwhelming.
普赖斯博士接受过流行病学和微生物学的严格培训，数年来他一直就抗生素耐药性向人们敲响警钟。最近，他告知国会委员会，有压倒性的证据表明了农场养殖业中抗生素的不良影响。
He thinks the Food and Drug Administration’s efforts to limit antibiotic use on farms have been weak. In 1977, the F.D.A. said it would begin to ban some agricultural uses of antibiotics. But the House and Senate appropriations committees — dominated by agricultural interests — passed resolutions against the ban, and the agency retreated. More recently, the agency has limited the use of two important classes of antibiotics in animals. But advocates say it needs to go further and ban use of all antibiotics for growth promotion. Sweden and Denmark have already done so.
他认为，美国食品和药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)在限制农场抗生素使用方面的工作一直较为薄弱。1977年，食品和药品管理局曾表示它将开始禁止抗生素的某些农业用途。但是，以农业利益集团为主导的参众两院拨款委员会(House and Senate appropriations committees)通过了反对该禁令的决议，该机构只好鸣金收兵。最近，该机构已对两类重要的抗生素在动物中的使用施加了限制。但倡导者们称，仍需要更进一步，全面禁止所有用于促进生长的抗生素。目前，瑞典和丹麦都已经推行了上述举措。
Ms. Slaughter said aggressive lobbying by agribusiness interests has played a major role in blocking passage of legislation. According to her staff, of the 225 lobbying disclosure reports filed during the last Congress on a bill she wrote on antibiotic use, nearly nine out of ten were filed by organizations opposed to the legislation.
斯劳特女士指出，农业企业利益集团的积极游说在阻挠立法通过的过程中发挥了重要作用。据她的工作人员称，在上届国会上，针对她撰写的一项有关抗生素使用的法案，共计提出了225篇游说性披露报告，其中近九成是由反对立法的组织所提交。
But the economics of food presents perhaps the biggest obstacle. On large industrial farms, animals are raised in close contact with one another and with big concentrations of bacteria-laden feces and urine. Antibiotics keep infections at bay but also create drug resistance. Those same farms raise large volumes of cheap meat that Americans have become accustomed to.
但目前所面临的最大障碍可能在于食品经济学。在大规模的工业化农场中，动物们均以密集型方式饲养，彼此之间密切接触，充斥着细菌的粪便和尿液也随处可见。抗生素一方面遏制了感染，但在另一方面又造成了耐药性。就是在这些农场中，出产着美国人日常食用的大量廉价肉类。
Governments have begun to acknowledge the danger. The United States recently promised $40 million to a major drug company, GlaxoSmithKline, to help it develop medications to combat antibiotic resistance. But Dr. Price says that new drugs are only a partial solution.
政府现已开始认识到这一危险。近期，美国承诺向大型制药公司葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)提供4000万美元的资助，帮助它开发可克服抗生素耐药性的药物。但普赖斯博士称，新药无法解决所有的问题。
“A lot of people say, ‘let’s innovate our way out of this,’ ” he said. “But if we don’t get a handle on the way we abuse antibiotics, we are just delaying the inevitable.”
“有很多人说：‘让我们通过创新来走出困境’，”他说，“但是，如果我们不能好好处理我们滥用抗生素的方式，那我们只不过是在拖延时间，最终仍然会走向不可避免的结局。”