SHANGHAI — When Han Feng returned to her homeland a decade ago, she moved into one of Shanghai’s most historically significant buildings almost by accident.
上海——十年前回到祖国时，韩枫几乎完全出于偶然地搬进了上海最具历史意义的一座建筑。
Days after landing in the city, the financial capital of mainland China, after 20 years spent making a name for herself as a fashion designer in New York, Ms. Han ran into an old friend at a flea market.
此前，她在纽约生活了20年，已是小有名气的时尚设计师。在抵达上海这座中国金融之都几天后，韩枫在一个跳蚤市场碰到一位老友。
“She suggested I come and be her neighbor at the Jin Jiang Hotel,” Ms. Han said. “I signed the lease the next day, then left town to go back to New York for three months.”
“她建议我来锦江饭店住，和她做邻居，”韩枫说。“第二天我就签了租约，然后离开上海，回纽约待了三个月。”
After moving to New York in 1985, with little English, Ms. Han began her professional career as a sales assistant at Bloomingdale’s. She soon started making and selling scarves out of her home and then introduced her own ready-to-wear line, becoming a staple at New York Fashion Week by the mid-1990s.
1985年搬到纽约时，韩枫还不怎么会说英语，她的第一份与时尚行业相关的工作是在布鲁明黛百货公司(Bloomingdale)做销售助理。不久，她开始在家里设计和销售围巾，还推出了自己的成衣系列。至1990年代中期，她已经是纽约时装周(New York Fashion Week)的一个重要看点。
As her fashion reputation grew, Ms. Han was also called upon to design costumes for opulent productions of “Madame Butterfly” (one of them was performed at the Metropolitan Opera in New York in 2006), as well as movies, such as the film interpretation of Amy Tan’s novel “The Bonesetter’s Daughter” and a remake of “The Karate Kid” in 2010.
随着在时尚界的名声扩大，韩枫还被邀请为华丽的歌剧和电影作品设计服装。前者如《蝴蝶夫人》（其中有一次是2006年在纽约大都会歌剧院[Metropolitan Opera]的演出）；后者则有根据谭恩美(Amy Tan)小说《接骨师之女》(The Bonesetter’s Daughter)改编的电影，以及《龙威小子》(The Karate Kid)的一个2010年翻拍版。
Ms. Han still has a loft in New York, but she moved her atelier to Shanghai in 2005, and now works exclusively on a made-to-measure basis with a list of loyal clients, many of whom have been wearing her designs for decades.
韩枫至今在纽约还有一座老库房公寓，不过她在2005年就把工作室搬到了上海，现在只为一批老客户设计制作定制服装，其中有不少人穿她的衣服已经几十年。
Her workspace is located downstairs from her apartment in Grosvenor House, a grand old apartment building and one of the two main buildings in the Jin Jiang Hotel complex.
她的工作室就在自己的锦江饭店贵宾楼(Grosvenor House)公寓的楼下。这是一座华美的老公寓楼，也是锦江饭店建筑群两座主楼之一。
The Jin Jiang Hotel has been one of Shanghai’s premier residential addresses since it opened in 1929 as Cathay Mansions. The Grosvenor House building followed in 1934.
锦江饭店的前身是华懋公寓(Cathay Mansions)，自1929年开业以来，一直是上海数一数二的高端住所。贵宾楼在随后的1934年落成。
Owned by Victor Sassoon, one of the most colorful characters of Shanghai’s early 20th-century jazz age, the first Cathay Mansions building was the tallest in the city when it was constructed. In its heyday, a raft of playboys, diplomats, journalists and businesspeople lived there.
华懋公寓原为维克多·沙逊(Victor Sassoon)所有，他是20世纪初上海爵士年代最具风采的人物之一。华懋公寓建成时是上海最高的建筑。在其全盛时期，有不少纨绔子弟、外交家、新闻记者和商务人士在那里住过。
After 1949, Cathay Mansions was renamed Jin Jiang Hotel and became a government guesthouse. In Mao Zedong’s China, this was the hotel du jour for dignitaries visiting Shanghai.
1949年后，华懋公寓被更名为锦江饭店，成为政府的国宾馆。在毛泽东领导中国的时代，这座酒店一直是来访上海的政要下榻之地。
Its high point came in 1972, when President Richard Nixon and Premier Zhou Enlai of China signed the Shanghai Communiqué in the Jin Jiang’s Grand Hall, the first step in normalizing relations between the United States and the People’s Republic of China.
它的最显赫时刻在1972年来临，当时美国总统理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)和中国总理周恩来在锦江饭店的礼堂内签署了《上海公报》(Shanghai Communiqué)，这是中美外交关系走向正常化的第一步。
“It’s such a well-known building for Chinese people,” Ms. Han said. “Actually, my parents like to tell their friends that their daughter stays in the Jin Jiang Hotel.” She added that her parents were still surprised that she is allowed to live at the famous address.
“这是中国人非常熟悉的一座建筑，”韩枫说。“实际上，我父母喜欢告诉他们的朋友，自己女儿住在锦江饭店里。”她还提到父母到现在还很奇怪，她怎么会被允许住在那个著名的地方。
Ms. Han’s one-bedroom apartment, on the eighth floor of Grosvenor House, measures 140 square meters, or about 1,500 square feet, and is a colorful expression of Ms. Han’s personality, with each room painted a different shade and much of the furniture custom-made, or picked up from local bric-a-brac stores.
韩枫在贵宾楼8层的一室一厅公寓面积约140平米，其中的布置生动地体现了韩枫的性格，每个房间都被刷成不同的颜色，大多数家具都是定制，或是从当地的古董店挑选出来。
“I really love it here,” she said. “It’s given me the opportunity to experiment with color and décor. What I really love about China is that it’s so easy to custom make everything.”
“我真的很喜欢这里，”她说。“它让我有机会实践自己在色彩和布置上的想法。我很喜欢中国的一点是，在这里定制什么东西都很方便。”
These days, with a one-bedroom apartment in the Grosvenor House building renting for about 30,000 renminbi, or $4,560, a month, depending on the floor, journalists have largely been priced out.
如今，贵宾楼一室一厅公寓的租金大约为每月3万人民币，具体金额取决于所在楼层。这样高昂的租金基本已非记者所能负担。
The building’s residents now are more likely to be consuls general and businesspeople.
现在的住户更多的是总领事和商人之类的人物。
Celebrities, such as the cosmetics entrepreneur Yue-Sai Kan, have also called Grosvenor House home, and the transgender dance star Jin Xing lives there with her family.
诸如化妆品企业家靳羽西等名人会把贵宾楼称作自己的家，还有变性舞蹈明星金星也和家人住在这里。
Born in Nanjing, on the cusp of Cultural Revolution, a young Ms. Han moved to Hangzhou, a little over 100 miles southwest of Shanghai, to attend the China Academy of Fine Art just after Deng Xiaoping’s economic policies opened China to the world in the early 1980s.
韩枫在文化大革命最盛时出生于南京，青年时代到位于杭州的中国美术学院读书，那是上世纪80年代初，邓小平的改革开放刚刚开始不久。
Her art school education led her to become a collector of Chinese contemporary art, and many of the pieces hanging in her apartment are the creations of her classmates.
艺术学院的教育使她成为一名中国当代艺术收藏者。她在公寓里悬挂的作品有不少出自美院同学之手。
“I bought their art mainly because I wanted to support them,” she said. “Maybe these pieces I bought for one thousand or two thousand dollars, but now everyone is so famous!”
“当时我买他们的艺术品，主要是为了表示支持，”她说。“这些作品当年买的时候可能也就一两千美元，但现在他们都非常出名了！”
The openness of the living and dining room, a rarity in older Shanghai apartments and the result of Ms. Han’s decision to remove archways between the rooms, is immediately apparent on entering the apartment.
一踏入公寓首先会注意到客厅和餐厅是开放式的，这在上海老公寓里很少见，因为韩枫拆掉了各房间的拱门。
Natural light floods the south-facing living room, with one wall dominated by two of the immersive oceanic oil paintings by the Chinese artist Shi Zhiying.
自然光大片洒落在朝南的客厅里，其中一面墙被中国艺术家石至莹的两幅巨大的海洋主题油画占满。
The dining room, with a large table fashioned from a former staircase and an Art Deco-influenced molded ceiling, has been the scene of many dinner parties, where Ms. Han enjoys bringing people together for good food, wine and conversation.
客厅里摆着一张由楼梯改造而成的大餐桌，天花板有浓厚的装饰派艺术风格。她在这里举办过不少小型家庭宴会，她喜欢把朋友们聚在一起，品尝美食美酒，一起聊天。
“At night I see friends; I like to put people together,” she said. “I like to know more creative people. I enjoy that.”
“晚上就见朋友；我喜欢把人聚到一块，”她说。“我想认识更多有创造力的人。很享受这点。”
Just off the bedroom is Ms. Han’s private retreat, a fuchsia-walled reading room, where books and magazines piled high around an armchair and a low ceiling combine to make the space a veritable cocoon. A fireplace and a hot plate — for making tea — complete the cozy feel.
紧挨着卧室的是韩枫的私密空间，一间有紫红色墙面的书房。里面放着一把扶手椅，周围是一摞摞堆得很高的书和杂志，天花板比较低，成了名副其实的茧居。加上有壁炉和用来沏茶的电热炉，更是营造出一种非常舒适惬意的感觉。
“In winter I sit in here a lot,” Ms. Han said. “It makes me feel very comfortable. I can sit here with friends and exchange ideas, or be by myself and I am very happy here.”
“冬天的时候，我经常待在这里，”韩枫说。“它让我感觉很舒服。我可以和朋友坐这里聊天，也可以自己待着。在这里，我感到非常幸福。”