HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam — The American dream may be battered at home but it is alive and well in this city that fell to the Communist North Vietnamese Army almost four decades ago, evident in the upscale Phu My Hung neighborhood where a house, a yard, a state-of-the-art barbecue, a jeep and a Domino’s Pizza at the corner fulfill the aspirations of a burgeoning upper middle class. Perhaps this is what is meant by losing the war and winning the peace.
越南胡志明市——尽管在美国本土，美国梦可能已经破碎，但在这座近40年前落入北越共产党军队手中的城市，美国梦却在富美兴(Phu My Hung)这样的高档社区清晰可见，生机勃勃。在这里拥有一栋房子、一个院子，最高档的烤肉器，开一辆吉普车，光顾街角的达美乐比萨(Domino’s Pizza)，就能满足兴起的上层中产阶级的期许。输掉战争，赢得和平，或许就是这个意思。
Or perhaps not, seeing that Vietnam is a one-party Communist state where the very notion of checks and balances dear to the framers of the United States Constitution is alien, and things function the way they do in the absence of such competing institutions, that is to say with little transparency and plenty of greasing the wheels. But then again, perhaps any attempt to categorize systems makes little sense in a post-ideological world dominated by invisible networks.
又或许不是。毕竟越南由共产党一党执政，制定美国宪法的立国者十分珍视的权力制衡原则，对他们来说很陌生。在这里，政治体制的运行缺乏竞争机制，也就是说透明度极低，要花很多力气去打点疏通。可话又说回来，或许对政治体制进行分类的任何尝试，在已经脱离了意识形态对峙、由看不见的网络把持的当今世界，已经没有什么意义。
Stroll around Phu My Hung in District 7 and what is most striking — aside from the proliferation of coffee shops serving iced lattes — is the number of schools with names like “Little Genius” or “Homework Center” or “Cornerstone Institute” promising to give the offspring of the upwardly mobile the foundations of success, including excellent English, perfect SAT scores and habits of hard work that will take them to the summit.
在第七区的富美兴社区闲逛，除了数不胜数的咖啡馆在卖冰拿铁之外，最令人惊讶的是有很多教育机构。它们有着“小天才”、“课业中心”、“基石学院”之类的名字，承诺为向上流动的阶层打好子女成功的基础，包括流利的英语、优异的SAT分数和积极努力的习惯，这些都有助于他们登上顶峰。
American students scratching their heads about why college entrance has become so arduous, with ever smaller percentages of applicants admitted to the best schools, could do worse than take a look at this little corner of Vietnam.
许多美国学生挠着头想不明白，为什么大学入学考试变得如此困难，申请者中能被最好的学校录取的比例越来越小。其实他们不妨看看越南这个小小的角落。
A 13-year-old Vietnamese boy managing the reception at the Homework Center told me in perfect English (he started learning it at age two) that children attend after school between the hours of 3 p.m. and 9 p.m., bringing their daily studies to around 12 hours. He spoke with earnest precision and eerie assurance. And where, I asked, would he like to go to college? “M.I.T.” he shot back without hesitation.
在“课业中心”管理前台的一名13岁的越南男孩用很棒的英语告诉我（他从2岁就开始学英语了），孩子们放学后从下午3点在这里学习到9点，算下来每天的学习时间大约有12小时。他说话时诚恳、准确，而且有一种奇异的自信。我问道，他想到哪里读大学，他一点都没有犹豫，而是干脆地说，“MIT”。
At Little Genius — motto “Kids want to fly!” — the push for academic excellence begins at an early age with a computer room designed for three-year-olds and filled with state-of-the-art equipment. Mastering English and technology is a sine qua non for such global wunderkinds growing up in a Communist state with a fiercely capitalist system, and imbued with the Asian values that put the success of the young generation first.
“小天才”的口号是“孩子想要飞！”在这所学校，追求出色成绩的努力从很小的年纪就开始了，它为三岁大的孩子们提供了一个专门为他们设计的电脑教室，配备了尖端的设施。对于这些全球化的神童来说，掌握英语和科技是不可或缺的，何况他们生长在一个具有强烈资本主义体制的共产主义国家，而且浸淫于重视晚辈成就的亚洲价值观中。
The brochure of Little Genius, an international kindergarten, lists among its objectives: “To creatively integrate technology through the curriculum, thereby earning access to the learning tools of the 21st century. With a growing world of technology it is important to give children early access to tools and equipment they will learn in their future.”
“小天才”国际幼儿园的宣传册上列出的目标有：“将科技创造性地贯穿于课程中，从而掌握21世纪的学习工具。在一个科技发展的世界，让儿童及早接触未来将要学到的工具至关重要。”
For wealthy Vietnamese, the goal at the end of this educational push is access for their children to American colleges or, failing that, schools in Australia or Canada or Britain or, failing that, perhaps state-funded scholarships to the best universities in Moscow (one vestige of what Communism once was is the close ties between Vietnam and Russia; Vietnamese entrepreneurs have made fortunes selling instant noodles for the Russian poor.)
对富裕的越南人来说，如此重视教育的最终目标是，让他们的孩子就读美国的大学，其次是就读澳大利亚、加拿大或英国的大学，再次则可能是拿国家提供的奖学金，就读莫斯科最好的大学。（过去的共产主义遗留到今天的一个痕迹是，越南和俄罗斯之间有紧密的关系；越南企业家向俄罗斯的穷人销售方便面赚到了大钱。）
This then is the way the world works: Autocratic hypercapitalism without American checks and balances produces new Asian elites, often party-connected, whose dream is an American lifestyle and education for their children; and whose other goal, knowing how their own capricious system really functions, is to buy into the rule of law and property guarantees by acquiring real estate in North America or perhaps Britain, so driving up prices in prime urban markets to the point where the middle classes of those countries, whose incomes are often stagnant or falling, are pushed aside. This symbiotic system at the level of individuals is mirrored at the national level, where the invisible bargain is that American debt is bought by Asian governments, notably the Chinese, and Asians make money through access to credit-fueled U.S. markets and consumers.
这就是世界运作的方式：资本主义色彩浓重、缺乏美国式权力制衡的威权国家，造就了新的亚洲精英，他们与党通常有千丝万缕的联系，梦想是过上美国的生活方式，让子女获得教育。他们知道自己国家变化莫测的体制是如何运作的，所以他们的另一个目标是，在北美或者英国购买房产，从而取得法治和产权的保障，于是在那些城市里的高端房地产市场，推高了房地产价格，以至于许多国家的中产阶级都被挤到了一边，后者的收入常常处于停滞甚至下降。个人层面上的这种共生体系，也反映在国家层面上。潜藏的安排是，亚洲国家（尤其是中国）的政府购买美国国债，而亚洲赚钱的手段则是进入由信贷推动的美国市场，接触美国的消费者。
None of this is particularly pretty, nor is it particularly just, but it beats the war that ended almost 40 years ago, on April 30, 1975, a military defeat for the United States now being celebrated with the red flags of Vietnam’s Independence Day.
这之中没有什么特别美好的地方，也没有什么特别公正的地方，但它优于近40年以前，在1975年4月30日结束的战争。美国的那场败仗造就了越南的解放日，越南现在会以飘扬的红旗进行庆祝。