There it is — the whole shebang. Or what’s left of the Big Bang, if you want to be precise and scientific about it. The trippy scene, all fall colors and gray splotches, was built from data captured by NASA’s Spitzer Space Telescope and puts in visual form the remaining background light from when the universe was less than one billion years old.
这里呈现的就是所有的一切。如果你想用精确的科学语言来描述它的话，或者可以说，这就是宇宙大爆炸留下的一切。这幅充满迷幻色彩的画面充斥着秋季的色彩和灰色的斑点，由美国宇航局(NASA)的斯皮策太空望远镜(Spitzer Space Telescope)捕捉到的数据绘制而成，以视觉形态呈现了宇宙年龄还不到10亿年时的残余背景光。
This is just one of the many images — some gorgeous, some weird — that comprise two new exhibitions at George Eastman House in Rochester: “The History of Space Photography” and “Astro-Visions.” The exhibitions, which will run through Jan. 12, display about 150 images related to astronomy, from 19th-century observatory photos to images from robotic photographers roaming the heavens.
它只是两个新展览展出的众多图像当中的一个——这些图像有的绚丽、有的诡异。这两个展览分别是“太空摄影历史”(The History of Space Photography)和“天文美景”(Astro-Visions)，展出地点是位于罗切斯特的乔治·伊士曼博物馆(George Eastman House)。这些展览将一直举办到明年1月12日，展品包括约150幅和天文学有关的图片，有19世纪的天文台照片，也有漫步太空的机器摄影师拍摄的图像。
“The History of Space Photography,” a traveling exhibition created by the California/International Arts Foundation, pulls together a vast array of images from around the world — and beyond. “Astro-Visions” consists of images from the enormous Eastman collection itself, which has more than four million objects, including photographs, motion pictures and equipment and books.
“太空摄影历史”是由加州国际艺术基金会(California/International Arts Foundation)推出的巡回展览，汇集了从全球各地乃至地球之外获得的大量图片。“天文美景”展出的图像则来自规模庞大的伊士曼收藏，该收藏包括400多万件藏品，其中包括照片、电影、设备和图书。
“My goal was not only to show items that related to space, but also to show how artists and scientists have envisioned space,” said Jamie M. Allen, assistant curator of photographs at the Eastman House. As with many of the institution’s exhibits, she said, the overall goal is to “illuminate the history of photography” — in this case, the history of scientific photography.
伊士曼博物馆摄影展助理策划人杰米·M·阿伦(Jamie M. Allen)说，“我的目的不光是展出和太空有关的物品，还要展示艺术家和科学家对于太空的设想。”她说，和该机构的许多展览一样，此次展览的整体目的也是“诠释摄影历史”，就此次展览而言，是诠释科技摄影的历史。”
These days, you can fill hard drives with images from sites like Astronomy Picture of the Day. So what’s special about this exhibit? It’s the sweep of the thing: The famous gelatin silver print of a rocket ship poking the man in the moon in the eye, an arresting moment from Georges Méliès and his landmark film, “A Trip to the Moon,” is here; and the first photo of Earth’s south polar ice cap, taken during Apollo 17, is too. The exhibits also display the important scientific uses of the photos, with gorgeous examples of satellite shots that provide insights into geology, oceanography and environmental science.
当下，你能在“每日一天文图”(Astronomy Picture of the Day)之类的网站找到一大堆图片来塞满你的硬盘。那么，此次展览有何特殊之处呢？它的特殊之处在于它包罗万象的覆盖面，在这里，你能看到那张著名的银盐黑白图片，显示一艘宇宙飞船戳进了人形化的月球的眼睛，这是乔治·梅里爱(Georges Méliès)和他的标志性影片《月球旅行记》(A Trip to the Moon)当中引人注目的一刻；你还能看到地球南极冰盖的首幅照片，它是阿波罗17号(Apollo 17)拍摄的。此次展览还展示了这些照片的重要科学用途，包括一些精彩的卫星照片，这些照片为地质学、海洋学和环境科学提供了深刻的认识。
Several of the images have historical significance: One shows what the exhibition calls the first image of the global biosphere, a composite of data collected between 1978 and 1980 by NASA’s Nimbus-7 satellite, which puts the world’s vegetation on display. Others are more up to the moment, like delicate tracings of the Mississippi River delta as seen in a 2010 image from the Thermal Emission and Reflection Radio meter on NASA’s Terra satellite.
其中几幅图片具有历史意义：其中之一是展览方所称的首幅展示全球生物圈的图片，它是由NASA雨云7号(Nimbus-7)在1978年至1980年期间搜集到的数据汇编而成的，呈现出了全世界的植被。其他一些图片距今更近，比如NASA的Terra卫星的热发射与反射辐射仪(Thermal Emission and Reflection Radiometer)2010年拍摄的一幅图片，其中显示了密西西比河三角洲的微妙痕迹。
So you like planets — that is, planets besides Mother Earth? Here they are: images from the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s unmanned vehicles of Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. Saturn, ever the glamour puss, is represented in a stunning backlit shot from the Cassini spacecraft, silhouetted against the sun, its rings hypnotic in their beauty.
你喜欢行星，喜欢地球母亲之外的行星吗？这里也有它们的图片：NASA喷气推进实验室(Jet Propulsion Laboratory)的无人航天器拍摄的水星、金星、火星、木星、土星、天王星和海王星的照片。卡西尼(Cassini)航天器背光拍摄的一幅照片令人震惊，展现了太阳映衬下的土星和它一如既往的魅力身姿，它的光环美得令人陶醉。
The exhibit also includes objects that show Kodak’s contributions to space photography, including its work on shutterbug spacecraft like the lunar orbiters — the museum even has a spare NASA orbiter on display.
展品当中还有一些器具，它们展现了柯达(Kodak)对太空摄影所作出的贡献，其中包括它为月球探测器等航天拍摄装置所做的工作。博物馆甚至展出了NASA的一台备用轨道飞行器。
There is less scientific fare, too. Along with the image from “A Trip to the Moon” (above), there is a still from Roger Vadim’s “Barbarella” and work by Bill Finger, an artist who has fantasized life on Mars in pictures both funny and haunting.
也有一些不那么科学的展品。除了那幅来自《月球旅行记》的图像以外，还有罗杰·瓦迪姆(Roger Vadim)执导的《太空英雄芭芭丽娜》(Barbarella)的一幅剧照，以及比尔·芬格(Bill Finger)的作品。比尔·芬格是一名艺术家，以既有趣又令人难以忘怀的作品反映了想象中的火星生活。
“My goal was always to put the ‘real’ space photography alongside the fictional space photography,” Ms. Allen said. She was fascinated by the way that artists’ dreams helped predict and even shape the future of space exploration – as when, in the Méliès film, his moon explorers fell back to Earth and landed in the ocean, as real Apollo astronauts would later do.
“我的目的一直是把‘真实’太空摄影和虚构太空摄影并置，”艾伦说。艺术家的想象曾帮助预测乃至塑造了太空探索的未来，这样的情形令她着迷。比如，梅里爱电影里的月球探险者跌落回地球，掉到了海里，到了后来，现实中的“阿波罗”号宇航员也的确是这么做的。
But she also noted how many of the photographic images of real objects are altered to transform phenomena outside of the visible spectrum into images that can be seen. That way, Ms. Allen said, the exhibition shows “how what we imagine becomes reality — and how reality becomes fiction.”
但她同时指出，许多真实物体的摄影图片都是进行过处理的，这样才能让可见光谱之外的景象变成可视图像。艾伦说，这一来，这次展览就显示了“我们的想象如何变成现实，现实又如何转换成想象”。