FREMANTLE, Australia — For Scott Miller, part of a team searching for the remains of a doomed Malaysia Airlines flight, the worst hours in a lifetime at sea came when his 215-foot vessel was caught last year between two powerful tropical cyclones and lashed by hurricane-force winds.
澳大利亚弗里曼特尔——对参加马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)一架失事航班残骸搜寻工作的斯科特·米勒(Scott Miller)来说，在海上经历的人生中最危险的那几个小时发生在去年。当时，他所在那艘215英尺（约合65米）长的船被困在两个强大的热带气旋之间，经受着飓风级别的狂风的袭击。
The largest wave “was like an eight-story building coming at the boat,” said Mr. Miller, the chief ocean floor surveyor aboard the ship, the Fugro Equator. “It was quite scary, the waves were the biggest I’ve ever seen.”
最大的那个波浪“就像一栋八层高的建筑，直逼我们的船而来”，在“辉固赤道号”(Fugro Equator)上担任首席海底勘测员的米勒说。“相当吓人，是我所见过的最大的浪。”
For Micah Hunter, the supervisor of the sofa-size sonar equipment towed behind the vessel, the most difficult moments were when a tow cable began fraying as the so-called towfish was being hauled up from near the ocean floor in late April.
对负责操作“辉固赤道号”船尾那台长沙发大小的声呐设备的迈卡·亨特(Micah Hunter)来说，最难的时候是在四月底。当时，他们正把称作拖鱼的设备从海底附近拖上来，一根牵引索开始出现断丝。
Two of the cable’s steel strands suddenly snapped, with one of them driving all the way through his left pinkie and out the other side, despite a protective glove. The other strand penetrated deep into his left index finger.
牵引索的两股钢绞线突然断了。一股径直穿透他左手的小指，飞了出去，尽管他当时戴了防护手套。另一股深深扎进他左手的食指。
And for Rhiannon Woolhouse-Williams, an ocean floor surveyor who is the only woman in the 30-member crew and also the youngest at 23, the hardest part has been living at sea far from her home and friends in New Zealand.
海底勘测员里安农·伍尓豪斯-威廉斯(Rhiannon Woolhouse-Williams)是船上30名工作人员中唯一一名女性，也是最年轻的。对23岁的她来说，最困难的是要远离新西兰的家人和朋友，在大海上生活。
For more than two years, crews aboard the Fugro Equator and other vessels have been searching the southern Indian Ocean for the remains of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014.
在两年多时间里，“辉固赤道号”和其他船上的工作人员一直在南印度洋搜寻马来西亚航空公司MH370航班的残骸。2014年3月8日，该航班在从吉隆坡飞往北京途中失踪。
Month after month, the crews braved mountainous seas and loneliness to answer a mystery that has confounded the globe, with little to show for their efforts.
时间一点点过去，为了揭开一个令全球困惑的谜团，他们勇敢面对一望无际的大海和孤独，但他们的努力却几乎没有换来什么成果。
Ms. Woolhouse-Williams joined Fugro, a Dutch company managing the search on a contract from the Australian government, right after her graduation from college in late 2014. She soon began a long series of six-week voyages to some of the most remote waters ever searched.
辉固(Fugro)是一家荷兰公司，与澳大利亚政府签订了合同，负责进行搜寻工作。2014年底大学一毕业，伍尓豪斯-威廉斯就加入了该公司。很快，她便开始了一系列漫长的航行，去的是一些最偏远的水域。每次航行持续六周时间。
“Before I went there, I couldn’t understand how isolated you were,” she said in an interview on the back deck of the Equator after it arrived in Fremantle, the port the serves Perth, Australia, to pick up supplies in early May. “We didn’t see any other vessels for weeks.”
“去那里之前，我想不到会有多孤独，”她五月初在“赤道号”船尾甲板上接受采访时说。当时船停靠在澳大利亚珀斯的港口弗里曼特尔补充给养。“我们好几周都看不到其他任何船。”
The Fugro Equator has repeatedly found fields of debris on the deep ocean floor, 12,000 to 15,000 feet below the waves. Each time, spirits have soared as the crew members hoped that they had found the missing plane.
“辉固赤道号”多次在1.2万到1.5万英尺深的海底发现散落着残骸的区域。每一次，大家都精神振奋，希望自己找到了失踪的飞机。
The first time they found a debris field, they were so excited that Fugro even notified the office of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia, who was traveling in Europe, to be ready to make an announcement.
第一次发现散落着残骸的区域时，他们非常激动，辉固公司甚至通知了澳大利亚总理马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)的办公室，让其做好宣布这一消息的准备。当时，特恩布尔正在欧洲。
Each time, the Equator or one of the other vessels has sent down an unmanned, remotely operated device to examine the wreckage with very high-resolution sonar and sometimes with cameras as well. But every time, the debris has turned out to be from previously unknown shipwrecks.
每一次，“赤道号”或其他船只都会放一台遥控的无人设备下去检查残骸。这种设备配备了分辨率非常高的声呐，有时候还带摄像头。但每一次，残骸都被证明是来自之前不知道的失事船只。
The shipwrecks seldom look the same, and the most recent one looked so much like a plane on images from the towed sonar device that it initially fooled Mr. Miller. “As it scuttled past on the screen, I called up everyone in Fugro,” he said. “When we went past that one, I was certain we’d found MH370.”
那些沉船的样子千奇百怪。他们上一次发现的那艘失事船只，从拖曳声呐设备发回的图像上看非常像一架飞机，以至于一开始骗过了米勒。“当它在屏幕上急速划过时，我给辉固的所有人打了电话，”他说。“当我们经过那艘船的时候，我确定我们找到了MH370。”
But it proved to be a steel vessel that had landed more upright on the ocean floor and with less damage than others they had located.
但后来，事实证明那是一艘钢铁船，以接近直立的姿势沉到了海底，受损程度比他们之前发现的其他船小。
For Capt. Andreas Ryanto Molyo, the commander of the Fugro Equator, the worst moment came during the same confluence of storms that alarmed Mr. Miller. Powerful gusts started forcing rain into the ship’s ventilation system through a vent on the back of the vessel, threatening to cripple the engines and electrical systems.
“辉固赤道号”上的指挥官安德烈亚斯·里安托·莫利奥(Andreas Ryanto Molyo)船长经历的最危急时刻，也发生在让米勒感到惊慌的那场暴风雨期间。狂风裹挟着暴雨，通过船后部的一个通风孔进入通风系统，可能会严重破坏发动机和电力系统。
Engineers opened a joint in the ventilation tubing and drained the water. The crew was lucky that the weather was cool and the intake fan in the ventilation system was not running, so it did not short-circuit, Captain Molyo said.
工程师们打开通风管道上的一个连接处，把水排了出来。莫利奥船长说，他们很幸运，因为天气凉爽，通风系统里的进气风扇没转，所以才没短路。
The waves were so steep and violent that crew members who wanted to sleep tried an old sailor trick of tucking life vests under the sides of their mattresses to avoid being tossed out.
海浪又大又急，想睡觉的人尝试了一个古老的水手诀窍，把救生衣塞在床垫边缘，以避免被甩出去。
But as the ocean became even more tumultuous, Ms. Woolhouse-Williams found that even that was not enough, and she tried to stay in her bunk with one leg braced against the wall and the opposite hand against the meager, bolted-down furniture.
但随着大海变得愈发狂暴，伍尓豪斯-威廉斯发现这样还不够，躺在床上的她试着用一条腿顶着墙，另外一边的手顶着用螺栓固定着的简单家具。
“You kind of sleep propped against the wee bedside table,” she said. Fugro has dispensed more than 300 prescriptions for seasickness to crew members, who said that few had been immune.
“睡觉的时候几乎是顶着小床头柜的，”他说。辉固给船上的工作人员发了300多份治疗晕船的药。他们说，几乎没人不晕船。
The sonar equipment was hauled up from near the ocean floor — a six-hour process — and safely lashed down before the cyclones hit, but there was not enough time to flee the area entirely.
气旋到来之前，声呐设备被从海底附近拉了上来——这个过程持续了六个小时——并牢牢捆住，但船没有足够的时间完全撤离该海域。
Fugro has changed its procedures since then and now provides color maps to the crew of incoming storms instead of numerical weather information, said Steve Duffield, the managing director of Fugro’s ocean survey operations in Australia. It is also quicker to interrupt the search if a tropical cyclone threatens, he said.
辉固的澳大利亚海洋勘测业务总经理史蒂夫·达菲尔德(Steve Duffield)说，在那以后公司改变了做法，现在会给船上人员提供彩色地图，标明即将到来的暴风雨，而不是数字形式的天气信息。他说，如果可能出现热带气旋，公司还会更迅速地停止搜寻。
Crew members said that they were not ready to end the search for Flight 370. They still hope to locate the aircraft on the seafloor and its black boxes, with the goal of unlocking the mystery of why the plane went astray.
船上的工作人员说，他们没有打算结束对MH370航班的搜寻，仍希望能在海底找到那架飞机和它的黑匣子。他们的目标是解开飞机消失之谜。