There was an audible thud when Ari Loeb fell on his backside in the midst of a scrappy, eight-against-one brawl at the Signature Theater Company recently. The fight was fictional, of course: Mr. Loeb was rehearsing the finale of “Kung Fu,” the new play by David Henry Hwang about the martial arts master Bruce Lee that is now in previews at Signature, where it opens on Monday.
不久前，在签名剧团(Signature Theater Company)发生的一场八对一的混战中，阿里·勒布(Ari Loeb)仰面摔倒，发出了砰的一声。这当然是一场虚构的打斗：勒布是在排练《功夫》(Kung Fu)的最后一幕。黄哲伦(David Henry Hwang)的新剧《功夫》讲述了武术大师李小龙(Bruce Lee)的生平，该剧目前正在签名剧团进行预演，周一开始公演。
The choreographer Sonya Tayeh asked Mr. Loeb, one of Lee’s adversaries, if he was O.K. “I think so,” he replied. (He was.) The next few minutes were spent finding a better way for him to fall — or to be thrown, really — and the short episode highlighted the complexities of making stage fighting look real to an audience while remaining safe for the performers. The process, which that day included several other tweaks to address the twin concerns of safety and verisimilitude, is grueling. It can take hours of rehearsal to create just a few minutes of fast-paced stage time.
勒布扮演的是李小龙的一个对手，编舞索尼娅·塔依(Sonya Tayeh)问他是否还好。他回答，“我想没事。”（他确实没事。）接下来的几分钟里，他们都在寻找一个更好的摔倒方式——其实是他被扔出去的方式。这突显了既要让舞台上的打斗戏在观众眼中显得真实，又要保证表演者的安全有多么复杂。这个过程相当累人，那天他们为了满足安全性和逼真性的双重需要，还做了其他几个小调整。在快节奏的舞台表演中只出现几分钟的戏份，可能都需要花上许多个小时来排练。
“Kung Fu,” which traces Lee’s life from the age of 18 until a few years before his death at 32, draws on the skills of Cole Horibe in the lead role. He is most recognizable to audiences from the television competition show “So You Think You Can Dance”; he was a contestant in Season 9 of the series, and became known for his “martial arts fusion” style.
《功夫》讲述了李小龙生平从18岁开始，止于他32岁过世的几年前。剧中的主演科尔·堀部(Cole Horibe)本身就身手不凡，他令观众最熟悉的表演来自电视节目《舞林争霸》(So You Think You Can Dance)，他是其中第9季的选手，因“融合了武术”的舞蹈风格为人所知。
Mr. Horibe, 28, who was born and raised in Hawaii, began studying martial arts when he was very young. While the movement in the show is very quick and looks quite realistic, it’s a significant adjustment for a guy who was trained actually to hit, not to pretend.
科尔·堀部28岁，在夏威夷出生长大，自幼习武。虽然剧中的打斗动作非常快，看起来也相当逼真，但对于受过真正实战训练的人来说，却需要进行大幅调整。
“I have to keep reminding myself in the fight scenes: ‘Think of it as dancing,' ” he said during a rehearsal break. “My father’s whole mentality for putting his children in martial arts was to learn how to defend ourselves, and he’d always tell us, ‘Imagine there’s a person there.’ When I’m doing these fights, the impulse is to really kick through the target, and a lot of times, I use too much force and I have to tell myself, ‘Relax, think of it as a dance move.’ ”
“在打斗场面中，我必须不断提醒自己：‘把这想成是跳舞，”他在排练休息时说。“我父亲让我们习武的全部目的就是学会如何保护自己，而且他总是对我们说，‘想象有个人在那里。’我在做这些打斗动作时，总想一脚踢倒目标，这种冲动出现了很多次。我会用力太猛，所以我必须对自己说，‘放松，把这想成是舞蹈动作。’”
Mr. Hwang, at one point, hoped to tell Lee’s life story as a musical, but those plans fell apart. Still, “Kung Fu” features both a dozen fight scenes and some dancing that, while not violent, is clearly infused with what Ms. Tayeh calls “combative” movement.
黄哲伦曾一度想用音乐剧的形式讲述李小龙的人生故事，但那些计划并没有成功。尽管如此，《功夫》中还是有十几段打斗场面和一些舞蹈，虽然并不暴力，但是显然充斥着塔依所说的“打斗性”的动作。
“The concept for the show started with the way Bruce thought about movement, which is that he took a little bit from a lot of places,” explained Leigh Silverman, the director. “He took from science, he took from boxing, he took from philosophy, he took from karate, he took from every place and he mashed it all together and made his own style.”
“该剧的概念来源于李小龙对动作的思考方式，他从很多地方都借鉴了一点东西。”导演雷·西尔弗曼(Leigh Silverman)解释道，“他借鉴了科学、拳击、哲学、空手道，从各个领域都汲取一些，然后糅合到一起，形成了自己的风格。”
Similarly, the movement in “Kung Fu” is built from a variety of sources and was created collaboratively. While Ms. Tayeh oversees all movement, the production has a credited fight director as well, Emmanuel Brown (who is also in the cast), and a “Chinese opera movement specialist,” Jamie Guan.
同样的，《功夫》中的动作也是汲取自多个来源，然后糅合而成。虽然是由塔依总管所有动作的编排，但团队中还有一位武术指导伊曼纽尔·布朗（Emmanuel Brown，他也在演员阵容当中），以及一位“中国戏曲动作专家”关鸿钧(Jamie Guan)。
Depending on the needs of a particular scene, “they give Sonya options, like a palette, a bunch of different colors,” Ms. Silverman said, describing the working relationship. Ms. Tayeh then “puts her eye to it,” the director continued, and figures out “how to weave together the different kinds of moves.”
根据特定场景的需要，“他们给索尼娅提供一些选择，就像是提供一个调色盘，里面有一些不同的颜料，”西尔弗曼在描述这种工作关系时说。然后塔依会“研究这个调色板”，弄清楚“如何将不同类型的动作编排到一起”。
As a result, the fights in “Kung Fu” are quite varied. Here’s a closer look at several major scenes, representing important moments in Lee’s life.
因此，《功夫》中的打斗场景风格各异。以下是剧中几个主要场景，分别展示了李小龙生活中的一些重要时刻：
A HONG KONG STREET FIGHT
香港街头的打斗
In 1963, Lee is on a date with Linda Emery, who will become his wife the following year. He tells her about his past as a troubled young man in Hong Kong who was prone to violence. The scene flashes back to 1958, to an explosive street fight with Lee taking on multiple opponents in a battle of punches and kicks marked by chaotic movement and lacking the grace that was the signature of his fighting style in later years. One brawler ends up with his leg broken.
1963年，李小龙正在跟琳达·埃莫瑞(Linda Emery)约会，后者次年成为了他的妻子。李小龙在约会时向琳达讲述了自己的过去：一个惹是生非，时常有暴力举动的香港青年。场景闪回到1958年，李小龙跟多名对手进行了一场激烈的街头斗殴，他的拳脚杂乱无章，还没有多年后那种标志性的优雅风格。一名对手的腿被打断了。
KATO AND COMPANY
加藤和伙伴
Lee played the sidekick, Kato, on the short-lived television series “The Green Hornet,” and “Kung Fu” includes a sequence about the complexities of casting an Asian actor in the ‘60s. “There’s some anxiety about having an Oriental actor on the show,” an ABC executive says. The resulting “Kato Dance” is much more stylized than the street fight scene and features bright lights, cheesy ‘60s television music and the absurdly enhanced sound effects that were used in the television show.
李小龙在播出时间不长的的电视剧集《青蜂侠》(The Green Hornet)中扮演主角的伙伴加藤(Kato)，《功夫》里的一段情节展示了电视业在上世纪60年代聘用亚裔演员时的复杂情形。“对于节目中出现了一个东方演员，人们感到有些不安，”ABC的一名高管表示。由此编排的“加藤舞”比街头打斗的场面更加程式化，采用了明亮的灯光，而且配上了60年代俗气的电视音乐，以及《青蜂侠》中增强到有些滑稽的音效。
A GENERATIONAL SHOWDOWN 
父子关系
Lee’s father was a performer, too, mainly in Chinese opera, and father-son tension is a major theme in “Kung Fu.” Lee’s move to the United States and his longtime refusal to return home are a source of friction. But so are disagreements about the realism and intensity of the fights featured in Chinese opera.
李小龙的父亲也是一名演员，主要是表演中国戏曲，父子之间的紧张关系是《功夫》中的重要主题。李小龙迁居美国并且长期不愿回家，是父子之间摩擦的根源。但是对于中国戏曲中武打动作的真实感和激烈程度，两人也存在分歧。
In one imagined scene, Lee visits his father’s grave and does battle with his father’s ghost. Swinging and dodging long wooden poles (a martial arts form used in Chinese opera), the two men argue over the issues that kept them estranged for years, and eventually find reconciliation.
在一个想象的场景中，李小龙到父亲坟前扫墓，并与父亲的鬼魂发生打斗。两人手持着长木棒（中国戏曲中使用的一种武打道具），一边挥舞着、躲闪着，一边又争论着那些让他们疏远多年的问题，但最终他们实现了和解。
BECOMING A LEGEND
成为传奇
Here’s the ambitious final stage direction in Mr. Hwang’s script: “Bruce rises to his feet. Breaks into a triumphant dance, more powerfully than before, anticipating the movies he will make in Hong Kong which will realize his dream. Ensemble members appear to fight him, and he defeats them all — with the electric joy which will secure his place as a film and martial arts legend.”
以下是黄哲伦剧本中最后一幕宏大场景的舞台指示：“李小龙站起身来。跳起胜利的舞步，动作比以往更有力，他期盼着将在香港拍摄的电影，那将实现自己的梦想。一群人开始与他动手，他打败了所有这些人——满怀激动和喜悦，从此奠定了他作为影坛和武术界传奇人物的地位。”
Ms. Tayeh said the team spent at least three full workdays creating the elaborate fight that ensues, which shows Lee using his hands and feet to fend off eight attackers in increasingly impossible ways, exhibiting dexterity as well as ease, style and humor.
塔依说，整组人花了至少三个整天来酝酿随后的打斗场景。李小龙会在其中用手脚来抵挡八个人的攻击，招式越来越难以置信，动作不仅灵巧自如，而且还体现了他的风格和幽默。