Over the summer, employees at a Japanese marketing firm noticed that not all of their colleagues were working the same number of hours.
今年夏天，日本一家营销公司的员工注意到，并不是所有同事工作的小时数都一样。
About one-third of the people at the company, Piala, were smokers and stepped away from their desks during the day for cigarette breaks. Despite the time the smokers were away from work, everyone left the office for the night at the same time.
在Piala公司，大约三分之一的员工是吸烟者，他们在每天的上班时间里会离开他们的办公桌去抽烟。虽然吸烟者把一些时间花在了工作之外，但所有员工的下班时间是一样的。
Nonsmokers at the agency complained about the unfairness to the chief executive, whose response in September has drawn attention in a country where tobacco use remains popular and workers take few days off. Employees at Piala who did not smoke, the company announced, would be rewarded with up to six additional vacation days a year.
不吸烟的员工向公司首席执行官抱怨了这种不公平。这位首席执行官今年9月的解决办法，在一个烟草使用仍受欢迎、工作人员假期很短的国家了引起了人们的注意。这家公司宣布，不吸烟的员工将每年得到六天的额外假期。
“I hope to encourage employees to quit smoking through incentives rather than penalties or coercion,” Takao Asuka, the company’s chief executive, told The Japan Times.
“我希望通过奖励、而不是惩罚或强制手法来鼓励员工戒烟，”公司首席执行官飞鸟贵雄(Takao Asuka)在接受《日本时报》采访时表示。
So far, the incentive has had some success. After the offer was announced in September, four employees decided to give up smoking, the company said.
到目前为止，这项奖励措施取得了一些成功。该公司表示，在9月份的宣布这一办法之后，已有四名员工决定戒烟。
The rollout of the new benefit comes as other companies in Japan grapple with how to encourage their own workers to make healthier choices and as the government faces international pressure to crack down on public smoking before the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo.
这一新福利出台之际，正值日本其他企业在如何鼓励公司员工做出更健康选择的问题上绞尽脑汁之时；同时，政府也面临着在东京举办2020年奥运会之前，减少公共场所吸烟的国际压力。
About 20 percent of Japanese smoke, down sharply from recent decades but still one of the highest rates in the world, according to government figures. Smoking remains part of the culture and work environment in Japan, where it is common for companies to provide designated rooms for employees to smoke indoors.
据政府数据显示，日本人中约有20%吸烟，吸烟人数虽然在最近几十年里急剧下降，但仍是世界上最高的之一。吸烟在日本文化和工作环境中仍占有一席之地，公司为员工提供指定的室内吸烟房间是很常见的事情。
But at Piala, which has its headquarters in a Tokyo high-rise, about 35 percent of employees smoke, and the cigarette breaks had become disruptive. The company’s offices are on the 29th floor, but the smoking area is in the building’s basement, meaning employees are away on breaks for up to 15 minutes at a time.
但在总部位于东京一幢高层建筑的Piala公司，有约35%的员工吸烟，而吸烟花掉的工作时间已对公司造成了扰乱。该公司的办公室位于大楼的29层，但吸烟区在大楼的地下室，这意味着员工每次吸烟最长要花15分钟的时间。
Companies in the United States have typically taken a more punitive stance on smoking, charging workers who use tobacco more for insurance and outlawing smoking on company property. Some employers, including the Cleveland Clinic, will not hire people who smoke. About 15 percent of adults in the United States smoke, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
美国的公司通常对吸烟采取更加处罚性的做法，向吸烟的员工收取更高的医疗保险费用，还禁止他们在公司建筑里吸烟。包括克利夫兰诊所在内的一些雇主不会雇佣吸烟者。根据美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的数据，美国有约15%的成年人吸烟。
Just under 50 percent of major American employers surveyed last year said they included a surcharge on insurance policies for smokers, at a median rate of $600 annually, according to Willis Towers Watson, the benefits consultant that conducted the survey of companies with at least 1,000 workers. (The rate was expected to climb to 60 percent of companies in 2018, the group said.)
据福利咨询公司Willis Towers Watson去年对至少有1000名员工的美国主要雇主所进行的调查，略低于50%的雇主说，他们向吸烟者收取额外的保险费用，额度中间值是每年600美元。（该咨询团体表示，预计到2018年，收取额外保险费用的公司比例将增加到60%。）
Some companies in Japan are adopting tougher rules on tobacco use. A life insurance company in Japan recently announced new antismoking measures, including a ban on smoking on company property and a plan to convert some smoking rooms into other uses.
日本有些公司也在对烟草使用制定更严格的规定。日本一家人寿保险公司最近宣布了新的禁烟措施，包括禁止在公司建筑里吸烟，还计划把一些吸烟室改为他用。
Broader antismoking efforts in the country have been met with resistance, despite pressure from international groups like the World Health Organization to make the Tokyo Olympics a smoke-free event. Additionally, the Japanese government holds a stake in Japan Tobacco, the multinational tobacco giant, which critics say compromises its smoking policy.
尽管有来自世界卫生组织等国际机构的压力，希望日本把东京奥运会办成无烟奥运会，但更广泛的禁烟努力在日本遭到了抵制。此外，日本政府还持有跨国烟草巨头日本烟草公司的股份。批评人士说，这让政府在制定反对吸烟的政策上有所妥协。
Some government leaders have embraced a public ban on smoking, including at restaurants, government buildings and hospitals. But lobbyists and members of the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan — worried about the impact of a ban on restaurants, and on government revenue — have blocked legislation so far.
一些政府领导人已经接受对公共场所禁止吸烟进行立法，包括餐馆、政府大楼和医院等。但游说者和日本自民党的成员因担心禁令会影响餐馆和政府的收入，迄今为止一直在阻止这项立法。