Even above the din of lower Broadway, you can hear the tour bus guides’ patter from the front room of Michele Varian and Brad Roberts’s fourth-floor SoHo loft.
米歇尔·瓦里安(Michele Varian)和布拉德·罗伯茨(Brad Roberts)住在苏豪区(SoHo)一套位于大楼四层的工厂改建公寓(loft)里。即便身处百老汇下区(Lower Broadway)的喧嚣之上，你依然可以从他们的前室里听到观光大巴车里导游喋喋不休的讲话声。
“They always point out the New Era building,” said Ms. Varian, peering at the steep verdigris roof of that landmark through muslin curtains she stitched herself and cinched with leather straps. “And they always say it’s where Mary Todd Lincoln bought her china. In fact, she bought it at the Corcoran building on our corner.”
“他们总是（为游客）特别提及新时代大厦(New Era building)，”瓦里安说着，透过扎着皮带的自制薄纱窗帘望着那栋地标建筑陡峭的铜绿色屋顶，“他们总是说，那是玛丽·托德·林肯(Mary Todd Lincoln)买瓷器的地方。事实上，她是在我们这边柯克兰(Corcoran)的楼里买的瓷器。”
Ms. Varian was referring to the E. V. Haughwout building, a cast-iron palace built by a porcelain manufacturer in 1856; its street-floor space is now rented by the Corcoran Group. It was dusk on a wintry afternoon, and Ms. Varian, 46, whose high-bohemian home-goods store is around the corner on Howard Street, and Mr. Roberts, 50, the deep-voiced founder of the Canadian band the Crash Test Dummies, had just put their place back together after nearly a year of upheaval.
瓦里安指的是E·V·霍沃特大厦(E. V. Haughwout building)，是由一家瓷器制造商在1856年修建的豪华铸铁建筑；其临街空间现租给了柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)。在一个寒冷的黄昏，瓦里安和罗伯茨在经历了将近一年的动荡后，终于将他们的家重新安定下来。瓦里安现年46岁，在霍华德街(Howard Street)的街角开了一家高端波西米亚家居用品店。罗伯茨现年50岁，声音低沉的他是加拿大乐队Crash Test Dummies的创始人。
Ever since a man in a hazmat suit burst through their living room floor last December, the couple has been struggling to adjust to the extensive renovations undertaken by the building’s new owner, Thor Equities, their third landlord in seven years. The company is remaking the place into a luxury rental building, with full-floor, soundproofed lofts that have the usual bells and whistles — spa bathrooms with soaking tubs, sleek Italian kitchens with Viking stoves, wide-planked floors — and will rent for nearly $12,000 a month.
自从去年12月，一名穿着危险防护服的男子打穿了他们家的客厅地板，夫妻俩一直在努力适应楼盘新业主——雷神地产(Thor Equities)的大规模装修。雷神地产已是他们七年来打交道的第三任房东了，该公司正在将此处改造成一栋奢华出租公寓楼，其中将包括占据整个楼层的隔音错层公寓。公寓里还配备了一贯吸引眼球的配套设施——带浴缸的水疗浴室、配备了Viking炉灶的雅致意式厨房、宽木地板——每月房租将近12000美元（约合人民币74653元）。
The process has not been a happy one.
装修的过程并不令人愉快。
For the last three years, Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts have been the sole residential tenants of 496 Broadway, a building not as storied as the Art Nouveau New Era across the street, but one that had all the original SoHo trappings: tin ceilings (albeit much patched), enormous windows and lots of space. Their apartment also came with a rent-stabilized lease, which puts them in an unusual situation, since their building was once subject to the protections of the Loft Law. Though their rent is $3,000, the so-called luxury deregulation rule — which deregulates any apartment once its rent reaches $2,500 or the combined income of its inhabitants tops $200,000 for two consecutive years — does not apply to former Loft Law buildings with rent-stabilized tenants. Fourteen years ago, the couple got their lease the old-fashioned way, by buying it from the former tenant.
过去三年里，瓦里安和罗伯茨已经成了百老汇496号唯一的住宅租户。这栋大楼并不如街对面那栋新艺术派(Art Nouveau)的新时代大厦那么有名，但是它保留了苏豪区所有的原始特色：锡天花板（虽然有很多“补丁”）、巨大的窗户和充裕的空间。这处楼盘曾受到《工厂房屋改建法》(Loft Law)的保护，而夫妇俩的这套公寓，也附带一份租金管制的租约，这就使他们陷入了一个不太寻常的状况：按照所谓豪宅“去管制化”(deregulation)的规定，任何公寓的房租一旦达到2500美元（约合人民币15553元），或其中的居民连续两年总收入达到20万美元（约合人民币124万元），那么这套公寓就可取消租金管制；而虽然他们的房租是3000美元（约合人民币18663元），但豪宅“去管制化”的规定并不适用于曾受《工厂房屋改建法》保护、且有租金管制的楼盘。14年前，夫妻俩以一种老派的方式获得了这份租约——从前任租客那里买过来。
Now they feel battered and overwhelmed by the construction that has erupted around them, and have hired David Frazer, a tenants’ rights lawyer with a specialty in loft buildings, to pursue a lawsuit against Thor. “Michele and Brad are in the position of being the last remaining rent-regulated tenants in their building,” Mr. Frazer said. “Which makes them a little more vulnerable to landlord harassment. Hopefully, soon they can reach some sort of settlement and go back to living a normal existence."
现在，周围施工活动的狂轰滥炸，让他们觉得倍受打击，不堪重负。他们已聘请了律师戴维·弗雷泽(David Frazer)对雷神地产提起诉讼。作为一名租户权益律师，弗雷泽的专长就是处理与工厂改建房相关的法律事务。“米歇尔和布拉德现在是楼盘里唯一的租金管制租户，”弗雷泽说，“这令他们更加容易受到房东的骚扰。希望他们可以很快达成某种和解，回归正常生活。”
•
Like SoHo itself, the couple’s situation is both familiar and atypical, and symbolic of a neighborhood that continues to gentrify, even when you think there can’t possibly be room (or profit) for another wave of luxury interlopers. Though who’s to say who really belongs in a neighborhood, or which chapter is more authentic.
这对夫妻的遭遇就同苏豪区自身一样，既令人觉得熟悉，又不具代表性。它就是这处持续走向士绅化(gentrification)的街区的一个象征，即便你觉得，这里已经不可能再有空间和魅力吸引新一波豪宅居住者入驻了。只不过，谁又能断言，哪个群体真正归属于某个街区，或者哪段历史篇章更加本真呢？
Past and present have long collided in this 26-block historic district, once home to manufacturing and department stores, and then, famously, to the artist-pioneers of the ’60s, ’70s and early ’80s — SoHo’s loss leaders, to use a market term for what their efforts and experiences have wrought here. For these days, SoHo is not just a neighborhood, it’s a global brand. Developers in northeast China, for example, are building sleek, “industrial”-style live-work lofts in a complex called SOHO. And chains like Victoria’s Secret, Sephora and Uniqlo draw tens of thousands of tourists every day to lower Broadway.
长期以来，过去和现在一直在这片包含26个街区的历史区中交汇碰撞，这里曾经入驻过制造厂和百货公司，然后便是众所周知的、上世纪60至70年代及80年代初的艺术先驱们——他们付出的努力和经验在这里锻造的价值，用一个市场术语来形容，就好比苏豪区的“特价诱客商品”（loss leader，为招揽顾客而降价亏本出售的商品——译注）。在那段时期，苏豪区不仅是一处社区，它还是一个全球性的品牌。举个例子，中国东北地区的开发商正在建造一处名为SOHO的建筑群，其中多为工作、生活两用的时髦“工业”式跃层住房。而像维多利亚的秘密(Victoria’s Secret)、丝芙兰(Sephora)和优衣库(Uniqlo)这样的连锁商家，每日吸引着成千上万名游客来到百老汇下区。
It seems that companies like Thor Equities, an international real estate company that focuses on urban real estate development, can still mine value from that brand. Thor currently owns 19 properties in SoHo, including 496 Broadway. Sean Sweeney, president of the SoHo Alliance, the neighborhood association, joked recently that soon SoHo will be known as the Thor cast-iron district.
看起来，像雷神地产这样的房产公司依然可从这个品牌当中挖掘价值。雷神地产是一家专注于都市房产开发的国际房企，目前在苏豪区拥有19处房产，其中就包括百老汇496号。社区协会苏豪联盟(Soho Alliance)的会长肖恩·斯威尼(Sean Sweeney)最近开玩笑道，苏豪区不久就会被称为雷神铸铁区了。
If the neighborhood’s rental and sale prices are higher, and have risen more precipitously, than those in the rest of city, it is mostly because the housing units — those lofts, unreconstructed like Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts’s, or spiffed up like the ones that surround them — are so large, and architecturally unique. Jonathan Miller, president and chief executive of Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal and consulting firm, said that since 2000, sale prices in SoHo have risen 125 percent, compared with just under 115 percent for the city over all; rentals are up 23 percent, compared with nearly 15 percent in the rest of the city.
如果说，与本市的其他地区相比，这处社区的房租和售价更高，且上涨得更剧烈，那主要是因为住宅单元面积太大、建筑风格太独特了——就比如瓦里安和罗伯茨居住的、未经重建的工厂改建房，或者周围那些包装华丽的住宅。房地产估值和咨询公司米勒·塞缪尔(Miller Samuel)的总裁兼首席执行官乔纳森·米勒(Jonathan Miller)说，自2000年以来，苏豪区的房屋售价已经上涨了125%，而纽约全市整体房价的上涨幅度只有不到115%；房租也上涨了23%，而本市其他地区的涨幅不到15%。
“You can argue that price growth in that area outpaced Manhattan in general,” Mr. Miller said. “Essentially, the creation of lofts as a legitimate and substantial market category got to the point where loft sales now represent 10 percent of the market. I don’t know if there is any more room to upgrade.”
“你可以说，那个地区的房价增速总体上已经超过了曼哈顿，”米勒说，“根本上，为工厂改建房创建一个合法且实质性的市场类别，是有道理的，因为现在这类房型的销售量在市场中占到了10%。我不知它还有没有进一步上升的空间。”
He added, sounding a bit wistful: “Just to digress, I have four kids, I live in Connecticut. My goal in life was to have a loft in SoHo that had spray paint everywhere on the outside and inside was a huge open box. Now that grit is all gone.”
他带着一丝怅惘的语气补充道：“说几句题外话吧。我有四个孩子，我们住在康涅狄格州。我的人生目标就是在苏豪区买一套工厂改建房，外部布满喷漆、内部是一处巨大的方形开放式空间。而现在，我已经完全没有这样的勇气了。”
•
Ah, but there are still pockets. Which brings us back to Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts, and their very funky apartment with its lumpy tin ceiling, paint-by-number artwork, collections of taxidermy and wood-burning stove, a boon last winter, when they say the building’s owner turned their heat off at regular (weekend) intervals.
啊，不过积蓄还是有的。说到这里，让我们回过头来关注一下瓦里安和罗伯茨，还有他们那套很有味道的公寓。公寓里有凹凸不平的锡天花板、数字彩绘艺术品、动物标本藏品和燃木的火炉。炉子是去年冬天的一个福音。夫妻俩说，那个时候，楼盘业主会定期（周末）切断他们的供暖。
The couple is a link to the building’s pioneering tenants. Mr. Roberts bought the lease for this apartment sometime around 2000, for about $100,000, from Howie Weinberg, a veteran sound man who mastered albums for generations of rock stars, including U2, the Beastie Boys and Nirvana. Mr. Weinberg had bought his lease in 1983, for about $20,000 and a swap of his Chelsea loft, as he recalled recently.
夫妻俩与那些曾经租住在该楼盘的艺术先驱们交情甚笃。2000年左右，罗伯茨以大约10万美元的价格，从霍伊·温伯格(Howie Weinberg)手里买下了这套公寓的租约。温伯格是一位资深音效师，曾为U2、Beastie Boys、涅槃乐队(Nirvana)等一代又一代摇滚明星的专辑把关。据他近日回忆，自己是在1983年以2万美元连同自己在切尔西(Chelsea)的工厂改建房作交换，从前任租客那里买下的租约。
“The landlord didn’t care about me switching the lease over to Brad,” said Mr. Weinberg, who now lives in Santa Monica, Calif., but sounded regretful he’d let the apartment go. “He just jacked the rent up 500 bucks.”
“业主不介意我把租约交换给布拉德，”现居加州圣莫尼卡(Santa Monica)的温伯格表示，不过听他的口气，他似乎对自己放弃这套公寓感到后悔，“他只是把房租抬高了500美元。”
When Ms. Varian moved in with Mr. Roberts not long after, she found Mr. Weinberg’s handmade Formica and cinder block furniture, she said, along with a lot of recording gear and guitars. “It was just a bachelor pad, and all the bandmates would crash here,” she said.
瓦里安和罗伯茨没过多久就搬了进去。瓦里安说，当时她在屋子里看到了温伯格手工制作的福米卡(Formica)家具塑料贴面和煤渣砖家具，还有大量的录音设备和吉他。“那时候这里只是个单身公寓，乐队成员都会在这里打地铺。”她说。
So Ms. Varian, a Detroit native who is handy with a hammer, began to build and embellish. She made bookshelves, a banquette and most of the kitchen. She hung wallpaper of her own design and others’, and strung reproduction glass flycatchers (voluptuous glass bottles with open bottoms) in the kitchen as a divider. She also built wall-size mirrors to reflect light into the center of the loft.
于是，瓦里安开始对室内进行装潢布置。她是底特律人，擅长使用锤子。她亲手制作了几个书架、一张沿墙放置的长椅和厨房里的大部分家具，在墙上张贴了自己和别人设计的壁纸，并在厨房悬挂了玻璃捕蝇器的复制品（一种底部开阔的艳丽玻璃瓶），作为隔断。她还制作了墙面大小的镜子，以便将光线反射到屋子中央。
There’s a cutwork muslin curtain that serves as an office wall, a swing made from recycled saris, a rainbow shag rug and much happy taxidermy: birds in flight, an antelope named Aristotle, a pheasant named Elizabeth and a pair of ducks from their former upstairs neighbor, Robert Becker, the Nancy Lancaster biographer and art critic who left in 2011. The loft, with all its indie décor, has been photographed so many times that it is now a calling card for Ms. Varian, as much a part of her own brand as the Howard Street store.
屋里挂着一块雕绣薄纱窗帘，作为办公间的墙；有一座秋千是由回收的纱丽制成的；地上铺着一张霓虹色的粗毛地毯；室内还装饰着许多令人愉悦的动物标本：其中有飞翔的鸟类、一只名为亚里士多德的羚羊、一只名叫伊丽莎白的野鸡、还有以前楼上邻居罗伯特·贝克尔(Robert Becker)赠送的一对鸭子。贝克尔是南希·兰卡斯特(Nancy Lancaster)传记的作者和艺术评论人，于2011年搬离了这里。这套工厂改建房连同其中所有的小众独立风格的装潢，已经无数次成为拍摄素材。如今，它就同瓦里安在霍华德街经营的商铺一样，俨然成了她的形象代言，也是其自主品牌的一部分。
“Suffice to say I have made no contributions whatsoever to the way this apartment looks,” Mr. Roberts said.
“不用说，我对这套公寓的装潢风格毫无贡献。”罗伯茨说。
•
Like Mr. Weinberg, Mr. Becker recalled what he described as the libertarian life of the building over the last three decades.
和温伯格一样，贝克尔回忆了他近30年来在这栋楼里的所谓“自由主义生活”。
When he moved in, and for a long time after, there was no heat or hot water, but he, too, had a wood-burning stove and he installed his own water heater on the roof. One year, he paid a Boy Scout troop to haul two cords of wood up the five flights of stairs. They destroyed the hall, he said, pitching the logs from landing to landing.
他搬进来之后，屋里有很长一段时间不供暖，也没有热水，但他也有一座燃木的炉子，而且他还在屋顶安装了自己的热水器。有一年，他出钱让童子军将两捆木材运上五楼。结果据他说，他们将木材一层楼一层楼地往上扔，把走廊破坏了。
There was no buzzer, of course, and like most people living in SoHo then, he would throw his key in a sock out the window to guests below; every month or so, it would end up on the second-floor fire escape.
当然，楼下的大门没有装对讲机。和当时大多数住在苏豪区的人一样，他会把钥匙装在袜子里，从窗口扔给楼下的客人；差不多每个月，扔下去的钥匙都会不慎掉进二楼的消防楼梯。
Jean-Michel Basquiat tagged the front door sometime in the early ’80s. For 10 years, Mr. Becker meant to unscrew the panel and save it for himself, but eventually someone else did. The floor had so many holes, he could hear Mr. Weinberg snoring. The roof leaked regularly, he said, “though every once in a while someone would come to patch it up and pour more ladles of tar up there. It was all very laissez-faire.”
艺术家尚·米榭·巴斯奇亚(Jean-Michel Basquiat)于80年代初的某个时候，在前门上留下了涂鸦。十年来，贝克尔一直想卸下那块门板，留着自己珍藏，但是最终被别人捷足先登了。地板上的破洞也太多，以至于他都能听到温伯格打呼噜。屋顶还时不时漏水，他说，“只不过，每隔一段时间就会有人来修补它，倒入更多的焦油。生活中的一切都非常放任自由。”
In the summer, he’d move his bed to the Broadway side of the loft, to catch the breeze. In winter, he’d shift closer to the stove. Building records say the place dates to 1900, but Mr. Becker said his windows were stamped 1855 or 1853, which he loved because, he said, “it meant that Walt Whitman had walked by my building.”
到了夏天，他会将床挪到屋子靠近百老汇的一侧，以便吹吹风；到了冬天，他会将床往炉子那边挪一挪。楼盘纪录显示，这个地方落成于1900年，但贝克尔表示，他的窗户上有1855年或1853年的印记。他很喜欢这件事，因为他说：“这就意味着诗人沃尔特·惠特曼(Walt Whitman)曾经从我的楼门口经过。”
Mr. Becker left three years ago, bought out by the landlord before Thor. He won’t say for how much, just that the amount “was very good, auspicious and convenient,” though “my lawyer thought I should have held out for quite a bit more.”
三年前，贝克尔搬走了，雷神地产之前那任房东出钱买断了他的租住权。贝克尔不肯透露具体数额，只是说钱数“非常可观、吉利、合适，”只不过，“我的律师认为，我应该再坚持一阵，还可以多拿到不少。”
•
When Thor bought the building, a company representative asked Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts to move out for two months so the stairs could be replaced, Ms. Varian said. After consulting their lawyer, she and Mr. Roberts declined. Mr. Roberts had been working on a solo record that was due to be finished a few months ago, and he works at home, as does Ms. Varian, who designs textiles and other interiors products. They were anxious, too, about being exiled, as Ms. Varian put it, from their home and work space for so long, especially with Mr. Roberts’s impending deadline, which has since been blown by his inability to work during the ruckus.
瓦里安表示，雷神地产买下这栋楼时，一名公司代表要求瓦里安和罗伯茨搬出去住两个月，以便他们更换楼梯。咨询律师之后，夫妻俩拒绝了这个要求。罗伯茨当时一直在准备一张本应在几个月前完成的solo唱片，而且他要在家工作。瓦里安也是一样，她在设计纺织品等室内装潢产品。他们也很担心在那么长时间里回不了家和工作地，用瓦里安的话说，就像被放逐了一样，况且罗伯茨的项目已临近截止日期。后来，他没能在喧嚣的环境中赶在截止日期之前完成工作。
That’s when things got rocky. There was the day the asbestos abatement crew arrived, and the worker in full hazmat gear, Ms. Varian said, burst through their living room floor, ripping a 5-by-2-foot hole before Ms. Varian shouted for him to stop. There were the winter weekends that the heat would be cut off, she said, from Friday to Monday. There was the flood in their apartment this summer, after work was done on the roof. When the building was broken into last March, the door buzzer stopped working. It wasn’t until the fall that a new system was installed.
也就是在这时候，一切开始变得摇摇欲坠。瓦里安说，有一天，清除石棉的工人来到家里，全副武装的危险品作业工人打穿了她家客厅的地板，钻出一个5*2英尺（约合1.5*0.6米）的洞，直到瓦里安大喊着阻止了他。她说，在冬季的某些周末，从周五持续到周一，供暖会被切断。而今年夏天，屋顶施工完毕后，他们的公寓里发过大水。还有去年三月，有人闯入楼内，之后门口的对讲机就坏了，直到入秋才装上新系统。
During all this time, there was constant construction above and below their apartment, which filled with dust and debris. Since the hazmat man appeared, the couple have felt uncomfortable leaving the building even for a few hours. Ms. Varian showed this reporter work permits that Thor had filed with the city, indicating that the building was unoccupied and had no rent-stabilized tenants.
在此期间，楼上楼下一直有人施工，夫妻俩的公寓里满是灰尘和瓦砾。自从身穿危险防护服的人出现后，夫妻俩就算只离开这栋楼几个小时，都觉得不放心。瓦里安向笔者展示了雷神地产向市政府申请到的许可证，上面显示，该建筑为空置楼盘，其中没有租金管制房住户。
A Thor representative denied that the heat was ever turned off, and said that the company is installing a boiler for the couple’s use, as the other units will have systems dedicated to their units as well. He added that the company had offered to put the couple up in a hotel during the renovations, and if they had agreed to that, the couple would not have had to experience the construction process.
雷神地产的一名代表否认供暖被切断过，并表示，该公司正在安装一台热水器供夫妻俩使用，正如其他单元也会有专门的供暖系统一样。他补充道，该公司已提议在装修期间安排夫妻俩在一家酒店居住，如果他们同意这个提议，就不用忍受施工的烦扰了。
Early on, Thor asked the couple if they might accept a buyout. Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts at first declined. Then, frightened by the floor incident, they said they would, if they could get a rent-stabilized loft in their neighborhood, or the financing to buy such a space. Thor offered them $400,000, Ms. Varian said, which they turned down. She said they would take $4 million, basing that figure on the properties they saw for sale in their neighborhood. (According to StreetEasy, the average price per square foot in SoHo is $2,845; the couple’s loft is 2,000 square feet.)
在早期阶段，雷神地产曾询问这对夫妻是否接受租约买断。起初，瓦里安和罗伯茨拒绝了。后来，由于被地板的事情吓坏了，夫妻俩表示接受这笔交易，前提是他们能在同一社区内租到一套租金限定的工厂改建房，或者得到足够的资金，以买下一套这样的房子。瓦里安说，雷神地产的开价是40万美元（约合人民币249万元），他们拒绝了。她表示，他们能够接受的价格是400万美元（约合人民币2488万元），这个价位参考的是他们在社区内看到的待售房产的售价。根据StreetEasy的数据，苏豪区的单位面积房价是每平方英尺2845美元（约合每平方米人民币196656元）；夫妻俩的工厂改建房有2000平方英尺（约合186平方米）。
Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Thor, amplified the company’s response in an email. “It is unfortunate that despite all of our best efforts,” he wrote, “including offering to temporarily relocate the tenants at no charge during construction and, after they refused, bending over backwards to be respectful as we worked to revitalize this SoHo treasure for additional tenants — an internationally recognized rock star and well-to-do designer have decided they would rather stamp their feet, complain and sue than share this five-story building with any neighbors.”
雷神地产的发言人斯特凡·弗里德曼(Stefan Friedman)在一封电子邮件中详述了公司的回应。“不幸的是，尽管我们尽了最大努力，”他写道，“不仅提出在施工期间为租户免费安排临时住处，而且在被他们拒绝之后，也尽力尊重他们，因为我们在为更多租户努力振兴这座苏豪区瑰宝。但不幸的是，尽管我们尽了最大努力，这对国际公认的摇滚明星和经济宽裕的设计师已经决定，他们宁愿捶胸顿足地抱怨和起诉，也不愿意与任何邻居分享这座五层建筑。”
As of this month, however, the dust is settling, literally and metaphorically, at 496 Broadway. Ms. Varian and Mr. Roberts have a new floor, and a cleaning crew is scheduled to come. There is a new buzzer system, too, an “electronic concierge,” as it is called, though on this reporter’s visit it didn’t seem to be working.
不过到这个月（2014年12月——译注），百老汇496号已经尘埃落定——无论是从字面上还是比喻意义上看都是如此。瓦里安和罗伯茨的家里铺设了新地板，清洁人员将在预约的时间上门。楼门口也安装了称为“电子门房”的全新对讲系统，只不过在笔者前去拜访时似乎还不能用。
A court date is set for next month, said Mr. Frazer, the couple’s lawyer. “Hopefully we’re going to negotiate a global solution.”
夫妻俩的律师弗雷泽说，开庭日期定在下个月。“希望我们能够协商出一个具有全球性的解决方案。”
Mr. Roberts and Ms. Varian say they are happy with their new floor, and newly peaceful building. “Our apartment looks beautiful, and it’s just wonderful to reclaim it,” Ms. Varian said.
罗伯茨和瓦里安说，他们对新地板和重新恢复平静的楼盘感到满意。 “我们的公寓看起来很美，能够重新拥有它真是太好了。”瓦里安说。