For decades, the bronzes created by the artist Malvina Hoffman for the Field Museum’s “Races of Mankind” exhibit have had a ghostly afterlife at the institution. Hailed at their unveiling in 1933 as “the finest racial portraiture the world has yet seen” and viewed by millions of visitors, the sculptures were banished to storage in 1969, embarrassing relics of discredited ideas about human difference.
芝加哥——艺术家马尔维娜·霍夫曼(Malvina Hoffman)为菲尔德博物馆(Field Museum)的“人类种族”展(Races of Mankind)创作的数座青铜雕塑，在诞生后的几十年里仍像幽灵一般活在那里。1933年，这些雕塑揭幕时，被誉为“世界上最棒的种族雕像”，吸引了数以百万计的观众前来观看。1969年，它们却被逐入储藏室，成为了一种尴尬的遗迹，体现那些贬低人类差异的不光彩观念。
Some were later scattered through the museum, like the Australian aboriginal man who stood guard for a time outside a McDonald’s on the ground floor, minus his original boomerang and spear. But to curators they remained strangely compelling, if troubling, objects.
后来，有些雕塑被散放到博物馆各处，比如有一段时间，澳大利亚土著居民的雕像曾在一楼的麦当劳门外站岗，他本来佩戴的回旋镖和矛被取了下来。但是在策展人们看来，它们仍具有奇特的魅力（虽然也有点令人担忧）。
“When I first came here, I sort of fell in love with them,” Alaka Wali, an anthropologist at the museum, recalled recently. “But there was always debate about what the museum should do with them. They were problematic objects.”
前不久，该博物馆的人类学家阿拉卡·瓦利(Alaka Wali)回忆说：“我刚来这儿就有点爱上它们了。但是关于博物馆应该如何对待这些雕像一直存在争议。它们是个难题。”
Now the Field Museum has put 50 of the 104 sculptures back on display as part of “Looking at Ourselves: Rethinking the Sculptures of Malvina Hoffman,” an exhibition exploring both Hoffman’s artistry and the vexed history of the dubious scientific ideas that her talent was enlisted to serve. At the time of the bronzes’ creation, many anthropologists believed that the world’s people could be divided into distinct racial types, whose visible differences in skin tone, hair texture and bone structure explained differences in behavior.
如今，菲尔德博物馆重新展示这104件雕像中的50件，作为“看看我们自己：重新思考马尔维娜·霍夫曼的雕塑”展(Looking at Ourselves: Rethinking the Sculptures of Malvina Hoffman)的一部分。这场展览既探索霍夫曼的艺术成就，也探索一段承载了可疑科学观点的历史，霍夫曼的天分为这些观点服务。在创作那些青铜雕塑的时代，很多人类学家认为，世界上的人能被分成特点鲜明的种族，他们在肤色、发质和骨架结构上的明显不同可以解释他们在行为上的不同。
It’s an idea, the show makes clear through wall texts and video touch-screen displays, that scientists have abandoned, though hardly one that has entirely gone away.
这场展览通过墙上的文字和触摸屏视频清楚地表明，科学家们已经抛弃了这种观点，虽然它并没有完全消失。
“It’s not as if just because scientists say race is not a biological fact, that it doesn’t continue to have an impact,” Ms. Wali, who curated the exhibition, said during a tour of the gallery. She stopped near a section discussing the legacy of scientific racism, which includes photographs of Black Lives Matter protests.
策划展览的瓦利在带我参观博物馆时说，“不会因为科学家说了种族不是生物学事实，这种观点就不再继续产生影响。”她在讨论科学种族主义遗产的区域停下，那里包括“黑人的命也是命”(Black Lives Matter)抗议的照片。
“Scientists can now show that human genetic variation doesn’t correspond to racial types,” she said. “But people don’t always listen to scientists.”
她说：“现在，科学家们能够证明，人类的基因变异与种族类型并不相符。但是人们并不总是听科学家的。”
The new exhibition, which runs through the end of the year, was financed in part by Pamela K. Hull, a granddaughter of Stanley Field, the museum’s president from 1909 to 1964, who paid for the restoration of the bronzes.
这场新展览将持续至年底。展览部分由帕梅拉·K·赫尔(Pamela K. Hull)资助。她是1909年至1964年担任该博物馆主席的斯坦利·菲尔德(Stanley Field)的曾外孙女，她出资修复了这些青铜雕塑。
It was Field who, in 1929, voted with the museum’s board to commission a group of artists to depict the world’s varied “racial types in a dignified manner.” Instead, the whole job went to Hoffman, a New York sculptor who had studied with Rodin, in what The New York Times called “probably the largest commission ever granted any sculptor,” male or female.
1929年，菲尔德和博物馆的董事会投票决定委托一群艺术家“以高贵的方式”描绘世界上的各个“种族类型”。不过，最后这项工作全部交给了纽约雕塑家霍夫曼，她曾师从罗丹(Rodin)。《纽约时报》曾称这“很可能是委托给雕塑家的最大的项目”——包括男雕塑家和女雕塑家。
Hoffman traveled the world looking for models with her husband, Samuel Grimson, who took thousands of photographs and made film clips of potential subjects. Hoffman, who once studied anatomy by dissecting cadavers alongside medical students, approached the project with a meticulous realism, using different patinas to subtly suggest skin tones.
霍夫曼和丈夫塞缪尔·格里姆森(Samuel Grimson)周游世界，寻找模特。格里姆森拍了上万张照片，给可能的模特拍了视频片段。为了学习解剖学，霍夫曼曾和医科学生们一起解剖尸体。她以一丝不苟的现实主义态度对待这个项目，用铜绿的差别展现肤色的不同。
The “Races” exhibit, which opened in 1933, included both simple busts and elaborate life-size pieces showing people shooting arrows, climbing trees or posing with spears. In the center stood “Unity of Man,” showing noble figures representing what were believed to be the world’s three main racial groups shouldering the globe equally. But its overall thrust — driven home by diagrams showing different nose types and the like — was unmistakable: The world’s peoples could be arranged in a hierarchy, from the primitive to the most civilized.
“人类种族”展1933年开幕，既包括简单的半身像，也包括复杂的真人大小的全身像，展现射箭、爬树或手持长茅的人类。中心的站立雕像名为“人类的团结”——代表所谓的世界三大主要族群的三个高大的人物共同扛起地球。但它的要旨很明确：世界上的人能够按照从最原始到最文明进行等级排列——展示不同鼻子类型等外貌特征的图表能清楚地阐释这一点。
About 10 million visitors viewed the exhibit over the next three decades, according to the museum, and a show of miniature reproductions traveled the country. But by the 1960s, the scientific theories behind the show had fallen into disrepute. In 1969, the exhibit was dismantled. The Field also halted publication of a “Map of Mankind” based on the exhibit, after receiving a letter from the poet Amiri Baraka (born LeRoi Jones), who denounced it as “white racist pseudo anthropology.”
该博物馆称，在之后的30年里，约1000万观众观看了展览，其微缩复制品在世界各地巡展。但是到20世纪60年代，该展览背后的科学理论声誉扫地。1969年，展览解体。菲尔德还停止发行关于这场展览的图书《人类地图》(Map of Mankind)，因为他收到诗人阿米里·巴拉卡（Amiri Baraka，原名勒鲁瓦·琼斯[LeRoi Jones]）写来的一封信，信中谴责这本书是“白人种族主义者的伪人类学”。
Science has shown today that “we share a common ancestry and the differences among people are not as great as they seem,” according to the website for “Race: Are We So Different?” — a traveling exhibition created by the American Anthropological Association.
美国人类学会(American Anthropological Association)组织的“种族：我们真的很不同吗？”巡展(Race: Are We So Different?)的网站称，如今科学已经表明，“我们拥有共同的祖先，种族之间的差别没有表面看起来那么大。”
At the Field, the few permanent exhibits that address human variation focus on cultural differences, like a wall of shoes from around the world that Ms. Wali curated in 1997.
在菲尔德博物馆，少数几个关于人类差异的长期展览关注的是文化差异，比如一面展示来自世界各地的鞋子的墙，它是瓦利1997年策划的。
Hoffman, who died in 1966, was herself skeptical about the biological notions of race she was hired to illustrate. “I will leave the much-disputed subject of what is meant by the word ‘Aryan’ to be fought out between expert anthropologists and Mr. Hitler,” she wrote in “Heads & Tales,” her 1936 memoir about the commission.
霍夫曼1966年去世。她本人也对自己应邀描绘的生物学种族观念持有怀疑。她在1936年关于这一委托项目的回忆录《头和尾》(Heads & Tales)中写道：“我将把雅利安人这个词的意思，这种很有争议的话题留给人类学专家和希特勒来辩论。”
While a short video in the exhibition shows her measuring a Malaysian sitter’s head with calipers, the show emphasizes her differences with scholars like the British anthropologist Sir Arthur Keith, a leading exponent of the idea of racial typologies (and the model for Hoffman’s bust exemplifying the craggy Scot).
虽然展览中的一段短视频显示，她用卡尺测量一位马来西亚模特的头部，但这场展览强调了她与某些学者的不同，如英国人类学家阿瑟·基思爵士(Sir Arthur Keith)，他是种族类型学的代表人物（也是霍夫曼的半身像模特，展现粗犷的苏格兰人）。
“These people are individuals,” not types, Hoffman said of the project in 1961.
1961年，霍夫曼提到该项目时说，“这些人是个体”，而非类型。
To recover that individuality, Ms. Wali and colleagues did extensive research into the real people behind Hoffman’s sculptures, roughly half of whom have been identified by name.
为了找出他们的个性，瓦利和同事们进行了广泛的调查，寻找霍夫曼雕像所依据的那些真实的人物，差不多有一半人的名字得到确认。
The Hawaiian man shown on a surfboard was Sargent Kahanamoku, a member of a well-known Hawaiian family (and brother of the famous surfer Duke Kahanamoku). The model for a bust of a “man from eastern China” was Dr. Hu Shih, the diplomat and scholar who helped establish the modern Chinese script.
那个冲浪的夏威夷男人名叫萨金特·卡哈纳莫库(Sargent Kahanamoku)，他是一个非常著名的夏威夷家族的成员（他是著名冲浪选手杜克·卡哈纳莫库[Duke Kahanamoku]的兄弟）。“来自中国东部的男人”半身像的模特是胡适。他是一名外交家兼学者，帮助创立了白话文。
“One of our docents who is Chinese-American walked in and recognized him immediately,” Ms. Wali said.
瓦利说：“我们的一位华裔美国讲解员一走进来就马上认出了他。”
The exhibition also corrects some muddled ethnic identifications, like the group labeled “Balinese cockfight,” despite the fact that one of the models was a man from Madura, another Indonesian island, whom Hoffman met in a Parisian restaurant where he worked as a waiter.
这场展览还纠正了一些弄混了的种族身份，比如标注为“巴厘岛斗鸡”的那群人中有一个模特实际上来自另一个印尼小岛马都拉。他是霍夫曼在一家巴黎餐馆里碰见的，是那里的服务员。
Then there’s the impressively muscled figure standing alone in a corner, looking like he got lost on the way to an exhibition of neo-Classical nudes. It was originally labeled “Nordic type,” even though the model was Tony Sansone, a celebrated Italian-American body builder from New York.
还有一个令人难忘的肌肉发达的人物独自站在角落里，他像是在去往新古典主义人体雕塑展的路上迷路了。它本来的标签是“北欧人”，而实际上它的原型是纽约著名的意大利裔美国健美运动员托尼·桑松(Tony Sansone)。
“We just call him Brooklyn man,” Janet Hong, the exhibition’s project manager, said with a laugh.
这场展览的项目经理珍妮特·洪(Janet Hong)大笑着说：“我们都叫他布鲁克林先生。”
Taken together, the parade of faces could be seen as a retro equivalent to Crown Fountain in nearby Millennium Park, which mesmerizes visitors with its shifting video close-ups of some 1,000 contemporary Chicagoans of all ages, races and ethnicities, projected on two 50-foot-tall glass towers.
这一系列面孔放到一起可以被视作附近千禧公园(Millennium Park)里皇冠喷泉(Crown Fountain)的复古版。那个喷泉不断切换视频特写，展现约1000张各个年龄、种族和民族的当代芝加哥人，投射在两个50英尺（约合15米）高的玻璃塔上，迷住了众多游客。
The exhibition “really shows the incredible diversity of human beauty,” said Jen Feasal, an industrial electrician from Lansing, Mich., who had come to the museum specifically to see the new show. She was particularly moved, she added, by the bust of Ota Benga, a Congolese man who was displayed for a time in the Bronx Zoo under the label “African Pygmy”; he committed suicide in 1916.
密歇根州兰辛市的工业电工珍·菲索尔(Jen Feasal)专门来这家博物馆观看这场新展览。她说，这场展览“真的展现出人类不可思议的那种多样化的美丽”。她还说，刚果人奥塔·本加(Ota Benga)的半身像让她尤为感动。这座雕像曾在布朗克斯动物园(Bronx Zoo)展示过一段时间，当时的标注是“非洲矮人”。本加1916年自杀身亡。
Asked how she felt about people who might skip the darker stories told by the wall texts and just get lost in the fascinating faces, Ms. Wali said it was understandable. She turned to a bust of Nobosodrou, a Mangbetu woman from what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo.
人们可能会跳过墙上文字讲述的黑暗故事，迷失在这些迷人的脸庞中。当瓦利被问及对此作何感想时，她说，这可以理解。她转向芒贝图（现在属于刚果民主共和国）女人诺博索罗(Nobosodrou)的半身像。
“I could just look at her all day,” Ms. Wali said. “She’s just so beautiful.”
瓦利说：“我能看她一整天。她太美了。”