HONG KONG — On the first floor of a hulking residential building, at the end of a dimly lighted corridor, a narrow door opens up into Hong Kong’s economic underbelly.
香港——这是一座粗陋的住宅大楼，大楼一层那条昏暗走廊的尽头有一扇狭窄的门，打开那扇门，你就看到了香港经济的阴暗一面。
Twenty-two men live in this particular 450-square-foot apartment in the neighborhood of Mong Kok, in cubicles each hardly larger than a single bed, stacked above one another along two narrow passageways that end in a dank toilet and shower room.
22个人住在旺角附近这间450平方英尺（约合41.8平方米）的公寓中，每个人的隔间勉强能放下一张单人床。两条狭窄的通道旁边排满了这样的隔间，通道的尽头是一个潮湿的厕所和浴室。
Each cupboardlike cubicle has a sliding door, a small television, some shelves and a thin mattress. Most of the men have lived here for months, some for years.
每个宛如橱柜的隔间都有一个滑动门，一台小电视机，一些架子和一个薄床垫。大多数人都在这里住了几个月，有些人住了几年。
“Luckily there is air-conditioning. If not, sleeping would be impossible,” said Ng Chi-hung, 55, who is unemployed and occupies one of the bottom bunks. “If you live in such environment, you have to adapt to everything.”
“幸亏这里有空调，要不然根本睡不着。”55岁的吴季雄（ Ng Chi-hung，音译）说。“住在这样的环境中，你必须适应任何事情。”吴志雄是一名无业人员，住在下铺。
Cheng Tin-sang, 59, occupies the bunk above, which is reached via a short metal ladder. Unable to work because of a heart ailment, Mr. Cheng wanders the streets all day.
睡在他上铺的是59岁的郑田生（Cheng Tin-sang，音译），上铺要通过一个短金属梯才能爬上去。由于心脏疾病，郑田生无法工作，整天都在大街上闲逛。
“I sit in places like McDonald’s,” he said. “Anywhere with air-conditioners will do.”
“我总是坐在麦当劳(McDonald’s)之类的地方，”他说，“有空调的地方都行。”
Hong Kong’s per-capita gross domestic product is higher than that of Italy, and not far short of those of Britain and France, according to World Bank figures. But for unskilled or semiskilled people like Mr. Ng, the city is a tough place to be, said Wong Hung, an associate professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong specializing in urban poverty and employment.
根据世界银行(World Bank)的数据，香港的人均国内生产总值高于意大利，稍低于英国和法国。然而，香港中文大学专门研究城市贫困与就业情况的副教授黄洪表示，对于像吴季雄等没有技能或技能不足的人来说，香港是一个艰苦的地方。
Hong Kong’s economy underwent a major change in the 1980s, when much of the manufacturing activity that made the city famous in the 1950s and ’60s moved across the border to mainland China. In its place came banking, insurance, trading, logistics and real estate — service sectors that now employ nearly 90 percent of the work force but that have been unable to absorb many less educated workers, Mr. Wong said.
香港经济在20世纪80年代经历了重大变革。当时，大部分在20世纪五六十年代促使香港成名的制造业活动都移至中国内地。黄洪表示，取而代之的是银行业、保险业、物流及房地产业，这些服务行业目前雇佣了将近90%的劳动力，但无法为许多教育水平较低的工人提供工作机会。
At the same time, Hong Kong has some of the highest living costs in the world, a huge and growing burden on those at the bottom of the income ladder.
与此同时，香港的生活成本居于世界最高之列，对处于收入底层的人来说，这是一个巨大且日益增加的负担。
Mr. Ng, for example, has worked on construction sites and made deliveries. His last job, as a waiter, paid 7,000 to 8,000 Hong Kong dollars a month, about $900 to $1,000. The monthly rent on his 15-square-foot bunk in Mong Kok is 1,440 Hong Kong dollars.
例如，吴季雄曾在建筑工地工作，还当过送货员。他的上一份工作是服务员，月薪为7000至8000港元（约合900至1000美元）。他在旺角租的那个15平方英尺铺位月租为1440港元。
At least 170,000 people live in such dwellings in Hong Kong, according to Policy 21, a research unit tasked by the government to take stock of the situation. Such housing can be found all over the city, in units fenced off with plasterboard or cagelike wire mesh, carved out of apartments that once housed a family each but that have since been subdivided multiple times. This subdividing of privately owned apartments is legal as long as safety and sanitation requirements are met.
据政府指派评估居住状况的研究机构——政策二十一(Policy 21)——透露，在香港，至少有17万人居住在这样的地方。在香港，随处都能找到这样的住所，这些住所曾经由一家人居住，如今则被石膏板或笼子式的金属丝网隔成了多个房间。只要符合安全和卫生要求，这种分隔私有公寓的举动就属于合法行为。
“It is quite hard to know how many there are,” said Sze Lai Shan, who works for the Society for Community Organization, a nongovernmental organization that campaigns for social equality. “We hear about them from the people we work with — they tell us of new flats that have been subdivided or old ones that have closed down.”
“很难知道香港有多少隔间公寓，”香港社区组织协会工作人员施丽珊(Sze Lai Shan)说。“我们从与我们合作的人那里得知相关情况，他们会告知我们新近分隔的公寓或关闭的旧隔间公寓的情况。”该协会是倡导社会公平的非政府组织。
While tiny housing of this kind has existed in Hong Kong for many years, it has expanded as soaring property prices have pushed more and more low-income earners out of the market for regular housing in recent years. Rent on these spaces has risen nearly 20 percent in the last four years, and now gobbles up about a third of the residents’ incomes, a report released by Ms. Sze’s organization this month showed. On a per-square-foot basis, the spaces cost at least one-third more to rent than regular apartments that are not subdivided, which average about 22.70 Hong Kong dollars, or $2.93, a square foot per month.
多年来，香港一直都有这种小房子；近年来，由于房价飙升，越来越多的低收入者被迫撤离普通住房市场，这种房屋的数量随之增加。施丽珊的组织本月发布的报告显示，过去四年中，这种房子的租金上涨了近20%，如今的租价约占住户收入的三分之一。按每平方英尺的租金来计算，这种房子的租金至少比没有分隔的普通公寓的租金高三分之一，后者的均价为每月每平方英尺22.7港币，合2.93美元。
“It is very expensive to live here, so I have to be more frugal, and I cut my food expenses,” said Yuen Luen-yuk, 49, who moved to Hong Kong from Zhanjiang, on China’s south coast, eight years ago and has a low-paying job looking after the residents at a home for people of retirement age.
“住在这里非常贵，所以我必须更加节俭，减少食物开支，”49岁的阮莲玉（Yuen Luen-yuk，音译）说。她八年前从中国南部沿海城市湛江搬到香港，靠照顾退休老人获取微薄收入。
Her living space, with a ceiling too low for an adult to stand, is part of a subdivided apartment in the neighborhood of Kwun Tong. Nine other people live there; they share a dim kitchen, a basic bathroom and a narrow corridor cooled by humming electric fans.
她的住所在观塘附近，也是公寓的一个隔间。隔间的天花板很低，成人根本无法站立。还有另外九人住在那里，他们共用一个灯光昏暗的厨房、一个简单的浴室和一条狭窄的走廊，降温设备只是一台嗡嗡作响的电扇。
“I’ve not thought about renting something better,” Ms. Yuen said, “because that means all your salary will be given to the landlord.”
“我没想过去租更好的地方，”阮莲玉说，“因为这意味着你得把所有工资交给房东。”
Hong Kong’s housing situation is now one of the reasons the government of Leung Chun-ying, who took the helm of the city’s administration last year, is deeply unpopular. Mr. Leung has pledged to add 20,000 units a year to the city’s already large stock of social housing for low-income earners.
如今，去年成为香港行政长官的梁振英的政府之所以非常不受欢迎，香港的住房条件就是其中一个原因。香港目前已有大量为低收入者准备的公益住房，但梁振英仍然承诺，每年要给香港增加2万套这样的住房。
And a committee tasked with reviewing housing strategy this month made numerous recommendations to deal with Hong Kong’s housing problems, including a proposal to set up a licensing system for subdivided apartments in a bid to better regulate safety and health conditions.
本月，一个负责监管住房政策的委员会就香港住房问题提出了大量建议，其中一条就是建立隔间执照体系，以便对安全和卫生进行更好的管理。
Housing experts fear, however, that such measures will not be nearly enough. New government-subsidized housing — with small but far more comfortable apartments than the tiny spaces in which Mr. Cheng and others live — will take years to build, the government acknowledges.
然而，住房专家担心这些政策远远不能解决问题。政府承认，新的政府补贴住房——这些房子虽然面积不大，但却比郑田生和其他人居住的狭窄空间舒服许多——还需很多年才能建好。
The waiting list for public housing has been lengthening steadily as rising prices have squeezed more and more low-income earners out of regular apartments. About 230,000 are now on the list, according to government figures, up from 165,000 two years ago.
随着越来越多的低收入者被高房价挤出普通住房市场，公共住房的等候名单逐渐变长。根据政府数据，名单上的等候者已经从两年前的16.5万人上升到了目前的大约23万人。
With families and older people given priority for government housing, single people like Mr. Ng, Mr. Cheng and Ms. Yuen face a seeming interminable wait, and their hopes for moving out of their tiny bunk spaces are waning.
政府住房会优先考虑一家人或年老者，吴季雄、郑田生和阮莲玉之类单身者的等待似乎看不到尽头，他们搬出狭窄铺位的希望也越来越小。
“If I were younger, I could work hard to save for a down payment” to buy an apartment, Ms. Yuen said. As it is, she said, “I do not have much hope in the future. I am just living from one day to the next.”
“如果年轻一些，我就会努力工作，争取攒下首付”买一套公寓，阮莲玉说。她说，实际情况是，“我对将来不抱太多期望，只是过一天算一天。”