Advertisements for star tutors in Hong Kong can be seen all over here: on billboards that loom over highways and on the exteriors of shopping malls. Invariably, the local teaching celebrities are young, attractive and dressed in designer outfits befitting pop stars. But beyond the polished shine, the advertisements also claim that their celebrity tutors can help students ace Hong Kong’s university entrance exam.
在香港高速公路旁耸立的广告牌和商场的外墙上，明星家教的广告比比皆是。当地的名师们几乎都是年轻人，魅力四射，而且身着流行明星们穿着的设计师品牌时装。然而，除了拥有光鲜亮丽的外表，广告还声称他们的“补习天王”可以帮助学生攻克香港的大学入学考试。
“From a marketing perspective, every company wants to present their products with good packaging,” said Antonia Cheng, a celebrity English teacher at Modern Education, one of the city’s largest tutorial chains. “I believe, very simply, that this is a business principle.”
现代教育补习社(Modern Education)的明星英语家教郑雅铭(Antonia Cheng)说：“从营销的角度来看，每家公司都希望自己的产品能以华美的包装示人。我认为，这仅仅是一种经营原则。”现代教育是香港最大的连锁补习公司之一。
Although Ms. Cheng’s Web site features photos of her in various poses, including in a red cocktail dress with a flash of leg, she maintains that “the quality of lessons is most important.”
虽然郑女士的网页上张贴着自己各式各样的照片，包括一张身着红色鸡尾酒裙的露腿照，但她仍声称“课程的质量才是最重要的”。
Many of the city’s celebrity tutors have their own music videos, Facebook fan pages and products including files and sticky notes. The local news media have reported that some tutors can annually earn more than 10 million Hong Kong dollars, or $1.3 million.
香港很多补习天王都拥有其自己的音乐录影带、Facebook粉丝网页以及文件袋和便利贴这类衍生产品。当地新闻媒体曾报道，一些家教年收入可达1000多万港币，约合130万美元。
In addition to some aggressive marketing techniques, tutorial schools sometimes claim that they can offer tips on questions likely to come up on public examinations. “I’ve heard that some ‘tutor kings’ tell students that they will excel in the English examination if they memorize 50 chosen words,” said Ip Kin-yuen, a Hong Kong lawmaker who represents the education sector. “But this is impossible. These are all gimmicks.”
除了使用一些激进的营销手段之外，补习学校有时还称，他们提供的考点可能会出现在公共考试中。香港教育界议员叶建源表示，“我曾听说过一些‘补习天王’告诉学生，只要他们记住50个精选的单词，就能在英语考试中脱颖而出。但这是不可能的，这些都是噱头。”
Woo Ching-tung, 17, has attended various cram schools over three years. “The tips the tutors gave were very vague,” she said. “They would name a dozen things that might appear in the exam paper and claim that they predicted the exam questions.”
在过去的3年中，17岁的吴靖彤（Woo Ching-tung，音译）曾参加过多个补习班。她说：“教师们提供的考点非常模糊。他们会抛出十几个可能会在试卷中出现的考点，然后声称他们可以预测试题。”
Complicating matters is the fact that some of the companies operating tutorial centers also run mainstream schools with government accreditation. The schools often encourage students to attend tutorials as well, offering discounts.
令人更为疑惑不解的事实是，一些开设补习中心的公司还经营着获政府认证的主流学校。这些学校也经常鼓励学生参加补习班，并为学生提供优惠价格。
Last month, the government examination results of 23 students at Modern College, a subsidiary of Modern Education, were invalidated after the students were found to have plagiarized from the Internet one segment of the exam that is conducted in school. The students filed an appeal, and the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority decided Tuesday to overturn the decision despite evidence of “serious” plagiarism. Instead, the authority said the students would get marks of zero for that portion of the test only.
上个月，现代教育旗下公司现代书院(Modern College)23名学生的香港中学文凭考试成绩全部遭到取消，因为这些学生在校本评核中有抄袭网络资料的行为。学生就此提出上诉。尽管 “严重”抄袭行为证据确凿，但香港考试及评核局(Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority)周二决定撤销这一裁决，转而宣布仅取消这些学生在该科考试中的成绩。
In response to that verdict, Karin Chan, a public relations representative for Modern College, said Tuesday that the decision had been “fair” and “comprehensive.”
对于这一裁定，现代书院公共关系代表陈家欣(Karin Chan)周二表示，这一裁决是“公平”且“周全”的。
Despite concerns about quality, the private tutoring business for Hong Kong high school students is valued at nearly 2 billion dollars, according to a report in 2011 by Synovate, a market research firm. Modern Education became a listed company in 2011 and reported a profit of almost 32 million dollars in the 2012 financial year. It has 14 branches for secondary school students, with a total of more than 600,000 course enrollments.
尽管人们对教学质量存在疑问，市场调研公司思纬(Synovate)2011年的报告显示，香港高中生私人补习班的业务总量估值近20亿港币。“现代教育”于2011年上市，其2012财年的利润近3200万港币。该公司拥有14家针对中学生的分公司，课程注册学生总数超过了60万人。
Large educational companies, including King’s Glory and Beacon College, make up more than half the local tutorial market and are becoming increasingly popular, according to the Synovate report.
思纬的报告显示，包括英皇教育(King’s Glory)和遵理学校(Beacon College)在内的大型教育公司占据香港补习班市场过半的份额，而且越来越受欢迎。
Almost three-quarters of Hong Kong high school seniors use some sort of outside tutoring service, according to a report released this year by Mark Bray, director of the Comparative Education Research Center of the University of Hong Kong.
香港大学比较教育研究中心(Comparative Education Research Center of the University of Hong Kong)主任马克·布雷(Mark Bray)今年发布的报告显示，近四分之三的香港高三学生都或多或少接受校外补习服务。
“What happened in Hong Kong is a bit like hamburgers,” Dr. Bray said in an interview. “We got an industry which produces a form of food which is relatively cheap.”
布雷博士在采访中表示，“在香港，补习班有点像汉堡包。当地的这个产业所提供的产品拥有相对低廉的价格。”
Tutorial-school chains generally generate most of their revenue through the mass sales of relatively affordable courses. At Modern Education, students can pay about 100 dollars an hour to attend classes with about 100 other pupils.
连锁补习学校的绝大部分收入来自于较廉价补习课程的规模化销售。在“现代教育”的补习学校，学生每小时只需支付约100港币，便可与其他100来个学生同班上课。
Tutorial centers in Hong Kong have been accused of capitalizing on a high-stress, exam-oriented education system.
香港的补习中心因其高强度的应试教育体制而备受指责。
“The marketing and promotional campaigns of tutorial centers are like a form of psychological warfare,” said Mr. Ip, the lawmaker. “They succeed because they manipulate the minds of students and parents. I think many Hong Kong students do not need to attend tutorial schools. But by creating fears, a herd mentality can be instilled among them.”
叶建源议员说：“补习中心的营销和推广活动类似于心理战。他们获得成功的原因是利用了学生和家长的心理。我觉得，很多香港学生并不需要参加补习班。但是补习中心可以通过制造恐惧感让学生和家长产生从众心理。”
Hong Kong schools are not generally deemed to be lacking in quality. The city usually finds itself near the top of studies on global education like the Program for International Student Assessment, organized by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
香港学校普遍都拥有较高的教学质量。在经合组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)的国际学生评估项目(Program for International Student Assessment)以及类似活动中，香港经常跻身于全球教育的顶级城市之列。
The highly competitive admissions process for universities appears to be a driving force behind the tutor phenomenon. Hong Kong’s public university system can accommodate only about 18 percent of local high school graduates, and the number of available places has remained about the same for two decades.
补习风潮的幕后推手似乎是竞争激烈的大学入学机制。香港的公立大学系统仅可容纳约18%的当地高中毕业生，而这一数字在近20年中没有什么变化。
The most anxious month for students is July, when exam results and university places are announced, and when local newspapers feature top test scorers as if they were local heroes.
令学生最为担忧的月份莫过于7月。这个时候，考试成绩和大学招生人数都会得到公布，而且当地报纸会把高分考生当成本土英雄一样来宣传。
This is the second year under a new system in which students take just one entrance exam instead of two. Some critics say that the overhaul, designed to reduce student anxiety, has done the opposite.
今年是新体制推行的第二年，在这一体制下，学生只需参加一次入学考试而不是两次。一些批评家指出，这一用于减轻学生压力的颠覆性体制让情况变得更糟糕。
“One of the ironies is that the pressure on one exam is even more than when you got two exams,” Dr. Bray said, calling the new test a “make or break” one.
布雷博士说：“具有讽刺意味的是，考一次的压力要比考两次的压力更大。”他将新考试体制称之为“孤注一掷”的考试。
Also in July, an amended law took effect to rein in misleading advertisements related to the services industry. While the regulations cover a broad range of sectors, including travel agencies and beauty treatments, it also affects tutorial centers.
同样在7月，一部旨在规范服务行业误导性广告的修订法案正式生效。该法规覆盖的领域十分广泛，不仅包括旅行社和美容护理业，同时也影响到了补习中心。
“Some tutorial schools claim that they have enrolled the most number of ‘five-stars’ students,” said Lam Po-chuen, head of the Consumer Protection Bureau, referring to one of the top exam grades. “You can only publicize such information if this is real.”
消费者保障科(Consumer Protection Bureau)贸易管制主任林宝全在谈到考试高分成绩时表示，“一些补习学校声称他们已经招收了大多数‘五星级’学生。这种广告只能在情况属实时才能发布。”
Star tutors and cram schools are popular across the more affluent parts of East Asia, including in China, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. An Asian Development Bank report released last year said that about 90 percent of primary school students in South Korea and 74 percent in China attended private tutorial sessions. Mr. Ip criticized a system that focused only on exam results, rather than on teaching. “The shortcut mentality is detrimental to learning,” he said. “After attending cram schools for several years, students may still hold such an attitude after entering university. They may only aim at graduating, say by picking the easiest classes.”
明星家教和补习学校在东亚较为富裕的国家都很普遍，这些国家包括中国、日本、新加坡和韩国。亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)去年发布的报告称，韩国90%的小学学生和中国74%的小学学生都参加过私人补习班。叶建源批评这种补习体制只关注考试结果而并不重视教育质量。他说：“这种走捷径的心态对于学习来说是不利的。有过多年补习学校经历的学生在步入大学之后仍抱有这种心态。他们的目标可能仅仅是为了拿到毕业证，而实现这一目标的手段包括选修最轻松的课程等。”