JAKARTA, Indonesia — For someone with dropping blood-sugar levels and in the early stages of dehydration, Eva Roma was rather stoic as she began her one-and-a-half-hour commute home from her office in central Jakarta.
印度尼西亚雅加达——伊娃·罗玛(Eva Roma)正准备从她在雅加达市中心的办公室坐一个半小时的车回家。她的血糖不断下降，而且几乎就要脱水。但这样处境下的她仍表现的相当淡定。
Her journey started with an hourlong ride on a standing-room-only public bus, followed by 25 minutes in a minivan, and finally a five-minute walk to her house in the far southern confines of this Indonesian capital.
她先是坐了一个小时的公共汽车，车上仅有站着的空间，然后又坐了25分钟的面包车，最后步行5分钟到她在印度尼西亚首都最南端的家。
Once there, Ms. Roma, 33, a Muslim who works as a secretary at a financial services company, planned to buka puasa — break her fast in observance of the holy month of Ramadan. Getting to work the next morning would be even worse, since that trip usually takes two hours.
33岁的罗玛是穆斯林，在一家金融服务公司做秘书。她打算一到家就根据回教斋月的礼俗开戒。第二天去上班将会更糟，因为通常一趟需要两个小时。
The daily commute, especially while refraining from eating or drinking all day, takes a toll, Ms. Roma said. But she has long since become inured to the physical realities of commuting in Jakarta, where horrific traffic and an inefficient public transportation system condemn many people to sitting in cars, buses and minivans or on motorcycles for four hours a day or longer, year-round.
罗玛说，每天的通勤，尤其是在一整天不吃不喝的情况下，会给她的身体带来伤害。但很长时间以来她已习惯了雅加达通勤的各种客观现实，交通拥堵和低效的公共交通体系让很多人每天被迫要困在汽车、公交车、面包车里或摩托车上4个小时或更久，而且一年内天天如此。
“I’m stressed by it,” she said, “but since the government hasn’t done anything about it, we just have to deal with it.”
“我因为这个感到压力很大，”她说，“但既然政府什么都没做，我们只能面对现实。”
Jakarta, with a metropolitan area populated by 28 million people, remains one of the world’s few major cities without a rapid-transit system, despite plans dating to the 1980s. The closest substitute, the TransJakarta Busway, carries fewer than 400,000 people a day. And a dedicated bus lane during peak hours, when the roads are clogged, does not help, as cars, motorcycles and even government, police and military vehicles illegally drive over the tiny concrete barriers that are supposed to block it off, further delaying the buses.
有2800万人口居住在雅加达都市圈，它仍是世界上为数不多没有快速轨道交通体系的大城市之一，尽管相关规划从20世纪80年代就开始了。最接近快速轨道的雅加达贯通公交线(TransJakarta Busway)每天能搭载的乘客人数不到40万。高峰期，在道路堵塞的情况下，专用的公交车道起不到什么作用，因为汽车、摩托车甚至政府、警方和军队的车辆都会非法越过矮小的本应将公交车道隔起来的水泥路障，从而让公交车前行速度变得更慢。
It is no wonder, then, that 9.9 million cars, motorcycles, trucks and other vehicles take to the capital’s streets each workday, according to the Jakarta Transportation Agency, nearly two million of them from neighboring municipalities in the provinces of West Java and Banten.
这么堵并不奇怪，据雅加达交通局(Jakarta Transportation Agency)统计，每个工作日都会有990万辆汽车、摩托车、卡车和其他车辆出现在首都街头，其中近200万车辆来自毗邻的西爪哇省和万丹省城镇。
But help may finally be on the way. Jakarta, the Indonesian government and consortiums of private investors are pouring $4 billion into public transportation infrastructure projects scheduled to start between this October and 2015. They include the first stage of a subway and aboveground rail system linking south and central Jakarta; two monorail projects; an express train to the airport from central Jakarta; and an elevated train circling the outskirts of central Jakarta that would connect to existing provincial commuter rail lines west, south and east of the city.
但也许终于有人要来帮助解决这个问题了。雅加达、印尼政府和私人投资者财团正要向公共交通基础设施项目投入40亿美元（约合245亿元人民币），这些项目计划于今年10月到2015年间启动。其中就包括一条连接雅加达南部和市中心的地铁和地上轨交系统的首期工程；两个单轨铁路项目；从雅加达市中心到机场的高速火车；连接雅加达西部、南部和东部现有省际通勤铁路线、环绕雅加达中心城区外沿的高架火车线。
“There is always light at the end of the tunnel, and the tunnel is getting bigger,” Bambang Susantono, Indonesia’s deputy minister of transportation, said in an interview. “With the improvement in the economy in Indonesia, we have the space to undertake these projects.”
“绝望中总会有希望，而且现在正变得越来越有希望，”印度尼西亚交通部副部长班邦·苏三托诺(Bambang Susantono)在一次采访中表示，“随着印尼经济的好转，我们现在可以放开手脚开展这些项目了。”
The political will is also there. For decades, the Indonesian government ignored transportation as a policy priority, but this changed after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono took office in 2004, said Milatia Kusuma Mu’min, head of communications for the Indonesian Transportation Society, an advocacy group. In addition, decentralization has enabled local leaders like Joko Widodo, Jakarta’s governor, to exercise more authority in pursuing public works projects, Ms. Mu’min said.
而且，也有了支持这些项目的政治决心。数十年来，印尼政府并没有将交通列为政策重点，但倡导团体印尼交通协会(Indonesian Transportation Society)通联部负责人米拉什·库苏马·穆明(Milatia Kusuma Mu’min)说，2004年苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)总统上台后，这种情况就变了。而且，中央放权使得雅加达省长佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)等地方领导人在推动公共设施工程建设上有更大的权力，穆明说。
But with the first rapid-transit rail lines not scheduled to start operating for at least four years, and greater prosperity only adding to the numbers of cars and motorcycles on the roads, transportation experts warn that in the near term congestion is likely to worsen.
但是，按照规划，首个快速轨道交通线至少四年后才会开始运营，而且经济的进一步繁荣发展只会增加道路上汽车和摩托车的数量，交通专家警告说，道路阻塞可能会在近期变得更严重。
That prospect brings both hope and despair to Jakarta commuters and motorists.
这样的前景给雅加达的通勤者和驾车者带来希望的同时，也带来了绝望。
“I think the Jakarta government can do something about it,” Ms. Roma said as she squeezed her way onto a packed TransJakarta bus for her trip home. “I have hope.”
“我认为雅加达政府可以做些什么来解决这个问题，”罗玛一边说着，一边挤上一辆满载乘客的雅加达贯通线回家。“我对此抱有希望。”
Simon Hendiwan, 32, an office manager in central Jakarta, does not agree. Unwilling to deal with long lines and the stifling heat of commuter trains, he instead drives his Toyota Kijang Innova van to work each morning from this city’s eastern suburbs. It takes him 90 minutes to cover the nine miles.
在雅加达市中心工作的办公室经理、32岁的西蒙·亨迪万(Simon Hendiwan)却不这么认为。由于不愿意排长队，也忍受不了通勤列车里的闷热，亨迪万每天早上会开着他的丰田伊诺凡(Toyota Kijang Innova)面包车从该市东部郊区去上班。九英里（约合14公里）的路程他得开90分钟。
“For Jakarta, there is no way out for the next five years, unless the government hurries up,” he said while filling up at a gas station before his commute home amid the late-afternoon Ramadan rush.
“对于雅加达而言，接下来五年没有任何解决的希望，除非政府加紧出台相关措施，”他一边说着，一边在斋月期间的晚高峰回家之前在加油站给车加满油。
Ramadan only magnifies Jakarta’s traffic woes. About 90 percent of Indonesia’s 240 million people are Muslim, and during the holy month workers are allowed to leave their jobs early to meet friends and family to break their daytime fast.
斋月更是加重了雅加达的交通问题。印度尼西亚2.4亿人口中约90%的人都是穆斯林，斋月期间，人们可以提前下班去见朋友和家人吃开斋餐。
This means that millions hit the streets around 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. Central Jakarta has resembled a parking lot each afternoon since Ramadan began on July 10. The daily scenes on Jalan Sudirman, the main north-south thoroughfare, include obscene gestures; near collisions as privately run buses cram into seemingly impossible gaps; and earsplitting honking that enrages traffic police officers as they try to keep things moving.
这就意味着下午三四点左右就会有数百万人同时出行。自从7月10日斋月开始，每天下午雅加达市中心都堵得像一个停车场。每天，雅加达南北主干道苏曼迪将军大道(Jalan Sudirman)上都会上演一些不雅行为；私人驾驶的巴士挤进看上去并不存在的空隙，差点撞在一起；震耳欲聋的汽车喇叭声惹怒了试图疏通道路的交警。
And then there is the monsoon season, in which heavy downpours have washed out the toll road to the international airport and left motorists sitting for hours.
还有就是印度尼西亚的雨季，强降雨冲坏了通往机场的收费公路，让驾车者只能坐在车上苦等数小时。
Commuting times could be significantly shortened by keeping the TransJakarta bus lane clear of unauthorized vehicles. The same afternoon that Ms. Roma was trying to get home, the lane was so packed with cars that public buses were crawling along no faster than the bumper-to-bumper traffic in adjoining lanes.
保证雅加达贯通线不被其他车辆侵占可以大幅缩短通勤时间。罗玛坐车回家的那个下午，该专用车道上挤满了小汽车，以至于公交车也像毗邻车道上紧挨着的车辆一样在一点点向前挪动。
As if to prove the point, Dian Anggraini, a 29-year-old door attendant on a TransJakarta bus, jumped off and scurried across the street to an ATM. Five minutes later, she got back on the bus, which had moved about 100 yards.
就好像要证明这一点似的，一辆雅加达贯通线公交车上29岁的乘务员戴安·安格拉伊尼(Dian Anggraini)跳下车快速跑到马路对面一个自动取款机那里。五分钟后，她回到车上，而车只往前走了100码（约合91米）。
“Mostly, the problem is the traffic that comes into the bus lane — that’s what needs fixing,” Ms. Anggraini said after resuming her post. “Many of our customers actually say it’s easier for them to just take TransJakarta rather than deal with the madness outside.”
“问题很大程度上在于抢占公交车道的车辆——这是需要解决的问题，”回到车上之后，安格拉伊尼说。“实际上，我们的很多乘客都说，和面对车窗外的疯狂相比，乘坐雅加达贯通线还是相对容易的。”