SEOUL, South Korea — As the Lunar New Year holiday approaches, Seoul’s increasingly well-heeled residents are scouring store shelves for tastefully wrapped boxes of culinary specialties. Among their favorite choices: imported wines, choice cuts of beef, rare herbal teas. And Spam.
韩国首尔——农历新年将至，越来越富裕的首尔人纷纷在商店的货架上抢购包装精美的特色食品。他们最爱买的东西包括：进口红酒、精选牛肉块、稀有的花草茶。还有世棒午餐肉(Spam)。
Yes, Spam. In the United States, the gelatinous meat product in the familiar blue and yellow cans has held a place as thrifty pantry staple, culinary joke and kitschy fare for hipsters without ever losing its low-rent reputation. But in economically vibrant South Korea, the pink bricks of pork shoulder and ham have taken on a bit of glamour as they have worked their way into people’s affections.
没错，午餐肉。在美国，这种装在熟悉的蓝黄色铁罐头盒里的胶状肉制品一直是廉价的厨房必备、简单易做的食材以及年轻潮人的低俗选择，从未甩掉过便宜货的帽子。但是，在经济富有活力的韩国，这种粉色砖块似的上肩肉和火腿的混合制品却多了几分魅力，甚至已经挤进了人们最喜爱的食品之列。
“Here, Spam is a classy gift you can give to people you care about during the holiday,” said Im So-ra, a saleswoman at the high-end Lotte Department Store in downtown Seoul who proudly displayed stylish boxes with cans of Spam nestled inside.
在首尔市中心高档的乐天百货商店(Lotte Department Store)，女售货员任少罗（Im So-ra，音译）说，“在首尔，世棒午餐肉是一种上档次的礼品，人们可以在节日送给自己关心的人。”她骄傲地展示装着世棒午餐肉罐头的漂亮礼盒。
South Korea has become the largest consumer of Spam outside the United States, according to the local producer. And that does not include the knockoffs that flood the market.
世棒午餐肉的当地生产商说，韩国已经成为美国之外最大的午餐肉消费国。这还不包括大量充斥市场的仿冒产品。
Spam’s journey from surplus pork shoulder in Minnesota to the center of the South Korean dining table began at a time of privation — hitching a ride with the American military during the Korean War and becoming a longed-for luxury in the desperate years afterward, when American troops stayed to keep the peace.
从明尼苏达州多余的上肩肉，到韩国人餐桌中央的盘子里，世棒午餐肉的旅程始于一个物资匮乏的时代——在朝鲜战争期间，它同美国军队一起来到了韩国。在此后的绝望年月里，美国军队留下来维持和平，午餐肉成为了人人渴望的奢侈品。
“PX food was the only way you could get meat,” said Kim Jong-sik, 79, a South Korean veteran who was stationed at American bases in the 1950s. “Spam was a luxury available only to the rich and well-connected.”
上世纪50年代驻扎在美军基地79岁的韩国老兵金宗轼（Kim Jong-sik，音译）说，“部队餐是你唯一能吃到肉的地方。午餐肉是只有富人和有关系的人才能得到的奢侈品。”
These days, it is sometimes easy to forget the American military presence that has lasted for decades. The sprawling military base in the heart of Seoul, the capital, is shrinking in deference to Korean sensibilities, and even the famed district of Itaewon, once a warren of bars for servicemen, is now a stylish neighborhood with a more international feel.
如今，人们有时会忘记美国的军事力量已经在韩国存在了几十年。由于韩国民众的不满，韩国首都首尔市中心庞大的军事基地正在不断缩小，甚至连著名的梨泰院区现在也成了更具国际化感觉的时尚社区。梨泰院区曾经是军人的酒吧区。
But Spam remains ubiquitous, so much a part of the fabric of culinary life here that many young people have no idea of its origins, even as they order “military stew,” or budaejjigae.
但午餐肉仍然无处不在，甚至已经成为韩国美食生活的一部分，许多年轻人在点“部队锅”(budaejjigae)的时候都不知道它的来源了。
Restaurants that specialize in the stew — a concoction that often mixes Spam with the more indigenous kimchi — dot urban alleys. Some harried Korean mothers revel in the convenience of opening a can and serving a breakfast of pan-fried Spam with eggs, and a mixture of little cubes of Spam, sour kimchi and rice (stir-fried and preferably served with an egg sunny side up on top) is a favorite snack Korean women say they crave when pregnant.
这种浓汤通常是午餐肉和更加本土化的泡菜的混合物。以部队锅为主打菜的餐厅在首尔的街道上随处可见。一些不堪重负的韩国妈妈喜欢午餐肉拉开即食的方便，她们把平底锅煎制的午餐肉和鸡蛋作为早饭。而把午餐肉丁、酸泡菜和米饭（炒一下，最好加一个煎蛋，较生的一面朝上）炒在一起是一种非常受欢迎的小吃，韩国妇女说，他们怀孕的时候特别爱吃。
And then there are the gift boxes, which have helped loft Spam’s sales in South Korea fourfold in the last decade to nearly 20,000 tons, worth $235 million, last year. The local producer, CJ Cheil Jedang, said it released 1.6 million boxed sets this holiday season alone, boasting of contents that make Koreans “full of smiles.”
还有午餐肉礼盒，这让午餐肉在韩国的销售翻了两番，去年达到接近2万吨，价值2.35亿美元（约合人民币14.2亿元）。当地的制造商CJ希杰集团(CJ Cheil Jedang)说，单是今年的假日季的发货量就达到160万个礼盒，并炫耀说，这些礼盒里的午餐肉让韩国人“笑得合不拢嘴”。
An exact comparison with American sales remains elusive. A spokeswoman for Hormel Foods, the United States maker, said the company does not report individual product sales, noting, however, that Spam remains a “high-quality kitchen staple made of 100 percent pure pork and ham that the world has come to know and love.”
我们仍然无法获得与美国销量的对比数据。美国制造商荷美尔食品公司(Hormel Foods)的一名女发言人说，公司不公布单项产品的销量，但指出，世棒午餐肉仍然是一种“高品质的厨房主打食品，100%由全世界熟悉和喜爱的纯猪肉和火腿制作。”
That may be. But George H. Lewis, a sociologist at the University of the Pacific, noted in a 2000 article in The Journal of Popular Culture that Spam won its “highest” status in South Korea. Here, he observed, Spam not only outranked Coca-Cola and Kentucky Fried Chicken in status, but was given as a gift “on occasions of importance when one wishes to pay special honor and proper respect.”
也许吧。但是，太平洋大学(University of the Pacific)的社会学家乔治·H·路易斯(George H. Lewis)2000年通过《流行文化杂志》(The Journal of Popular Culture)的一篇文章指出，午餐肉在韩国赢得了“最高”的地位。他指出，在韩国，午餐肉的地位不仅超过了可口可乐和肯德基，还可以作为“在重要场合表达特殊尊重和应有敬意”的礼物。
For a time, Korean children even considered it cool to have pan-fried slices of Spam in their school lunchboxes. (Now, it is at least not uncool.) Its cachet was obvious in a recent television commercial featuring movie and television stars. In it, a man makes a romantic dinner invitation that his picky girlfriend cannot refuse: How about slices of pan-fried Spam over a steaming bowl of rice?
曾几何时，韩国小孩甚至觉得带去学校的午餐中有煎午餐肉的话是件很酷的事情。（如今，至少也不算不酷。）它的尊崇地位在最近的一则由影视明星代言的广告中彰显无遗。广告里，男主角做了一顿挑剔的女友无法拒绝的浪漫晚餐：热气腾腾的米饭配上煎午餐肉片。
That is not to say everyone here has a soft spot for Spam. At a time when there is no shortage of fresh meat and when organic foods have become a bit of a national obsession, some richer South Koreans turn up their noses at the canned product (which, incidentally, lent its name to those irritating, unwanted emails known as spam).
倒也不是说，每个韩国人都对午餐肉喜爱有加。现如今，鲜肉供应充足，有机食品也已多少受到举国追捧，部分较为富裕的韩国人对这种罐装食品嗤之以鼻（它碰巧和惹人烦的“垃圾邮件”重名）。
But South Korea’s love affair with the former PX food has so far been enduring. It grew in popularity even through the years of a gradual reduction in the size of the American forces in South Korea and even when student-led anti-American protests rocked the country, some of them set off by the foreign military presence.
不过，韩国人对这种曾经的部队餐的热爱目前仍在延续。它受欢迎的程度有增无减，就连驻韩美军的规模逐渐缩减的时候也如此，甚至还包括学生带头的反美示威活动震动全国的时期，而其中一些示威的导火索正是外国驻军问题。
So what explains the staying power?
那么，如何解释这种经久不衰的魅力呢？
“Spam maintains a mythical aura on the Korean market for reasons that escape many,” mused Koo Se-woong, a lecturer of Korean studies at Yale University’s MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies. “Given Spam’s introduction to South Korea through the U.S. military, it enjoyed an association with prosperity and nutritiousness during an earlier era.”
“午餐肉之所以在韩国市场上有神话般的光环，原因很多人都想不到，”耶鲁大学麦克米兰国际与地区研究中心(MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies)的朝韩研究讲师具世雄（Koo Se-woong，音译）沉思后回答。“鉴于午餐肉是由美军引入韩国的，它在早期就与富足和营养联系在了一起。”
Mr. Kim, the army veteran, is of the generation that remembers firsthand the painful origins of the product’s popularity. “In those early years, children scavenged through American Army Dumpsters, collecting Spam, sausage, half-eaten hamburger patty, bacon, bread, anything edible, and sold them to restaurants,” he said.
老兵金先生那一代人，对午餐肉走红的痛苦根源有着栩栩如生的记忆。“早年间，孩子们会去美军的大垃圾箱里翻找午餐肉、香肠、啃了一半的汉堡肉饼、培根和面包等各种可以吃的东西，然后卖给餐馆，”他说。
The stew that came to be known as budaejjigae was born that way, as people cleaned the castoffs and began mixing them, or black-market American military rations, with kimchi. (The dish is also sometimes called Johnson’s Stew to honor President Lyndon B. Johnson, who visited here in 1966 and promised continued American economic aid.)
被称为“部队锅”的浓汤就是这样诞生的：人们清理剩菜，然后开始把它们或黑市美军口粮与泡菜混在一起。（这道菜有时也被叫做约翰逊汤，用以纪念1966年到访并承诺美国将继续经济援助韩国的前总统林登·B·约翰逊[Lyndon B. Johnson]。）
Mr. Kim and his wife now run Bada Sikdang, one of the most popular budaejjigae restaurants in Seoul. One past high-profile client: President Park Geun-hye, whose framed signature hangs on the wall.
金氏夫妇如今经营着一家在首尔大受欢迎的部队锅餐厅，名为大海食堂(Bada Sikdang)。曾经光顾的名人中包括韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。她的签名被裱起来挂在墙上。
During a recent lunch, Bada was packed with well-dressed young Koreans. Sung Min-kyeong, 35, an interior designer dining at the 14-table restaurant, said she could not understand what Americans found so funny about Spam while they loved hot dogs.
不久前的午餐时间，可容纳14桌客人的大海食堂挤满了衣着光鲜的韩国年轻人。35岁的室内设计师宋民京(Sung Min-kyeong，音译)表示，她搞不明白美国人为何对午餐肉的事情大惊小怪，他们自己不就喜欢热狗吗？
Even some who do not consider themselves big fans said that though they had not lived through the war, they had their own fond memories of Spam as a fixture of their childhoods.
就连那些自认为并非极度热爱午餐肉的人也说，虽然他们没有经历战争，但午餐肉作为童年常吃的食物留下了美好的记忆。
One, 40-year-old Seo Soo-kyung, said it had been a revelation when her American brother-in-law once looked shocked to see her buy Spam and told her it was “junk food for the homeless in the U.S.”
40岁的徐秀景（Seo Soo-kyung，音译）说，美国姻亲看到她买午餐肉时吃了一惊，告诉她这是“美国流浪汉吃的垃圾食品”，这着实出乎她的预料。
“To me, Spam was just a tasteful and convenient food that mother used to cook for us,” she said. “The thing about Spam is that it goes marvelously well with kimchi and rice.”
“对我来说，午餐肉只是妈妈以前做给我们吃的美味方便食品，”她说。“午餐肉的魅力在于，配着泡菜和米饭吃真是棒极了。”