On a recent Sunday afternoon, hundreds of villagers gathered in this tiny Sardinian town for a Mass to celebrate the 100th birthday of Claudina Melis, one of its esteemed citizens. But she was not the first to reach that milestone. Next to Ms. Melis in the front pew was her 105-year-old sister, Consolata; they both had dark kerchiefs and wore traditional black widows’ garb. Nearby sat five other Melis siblings, all older than 85, and their families.
意大利佩尔达斯代福古——前不久一个星期天的下午，数百名村民聚集在撒丁岛的这个小镇上做弥撒，为备受尊敬的村民克劳迪纳·梅利斯(Claudina Melis)庆祝100岁生日。但她并不是这里第一个活到100岁的人。在前排座位上，她105岁的姐姐康索莱塔(Consolata)坐在她旁边，两人都戴着黑头巾，穿着传统的黑色寡妇外衣。周围则坐着梅利斯家族的其他五个兄弟姐妹，他们的年龄全都超过了85岁，还有他们的家人。
In 2012, the Melis family entered the Guinness World Records for having the highest combined age of any nine living siblings on earth — today more than 825 years. Sustained by good genes, fresh air, healthy food, physical exercise, quick wit and powerful family bonds, the Melises have become elderly symbols of a Mediterranean way of life that is the envy of the world.
2012年，梅利斯家族被列入了《吉尼斯世界纪录》(Guinness World Records)，因为该家族仍然健在的九姐弟年龄加起来是全世界最大的——现在已经超过了825岁。在优良的基因、清新的空气、健康食品、体育锻炼、机智的头脑，以及牢固的家庭纽带的照拂下，梅利斯九姐弟成为了令世人羡慕的地中海生活方式在老年人中的象征。
But scroll down through the generations and another pattern emerges. Few of the nine Melis siblings have formal education beyond fifth grade. (Claudina and Consolata stopped at the second.) Many of their children have high school or university degrees and are now retired from public or private sector jobs. And their children, the ones born after 1970, generally have university degrees — and are struggling to find work.
但是往下看几代人，另一种模式呈现了出来。梅利斯九个兄弟姐妹中，几乎没有人接受过五年级之后的正规教育（克劳迪纳和康索莱塔只读到二年级）。他们的孩子中，很多都有高中或者大学学历，现在已从公营或私营部门退休。再下一代出生在1970年以后的孩子们，通常都拥有大学学历 ——现在正在辛苦地找工作。
With older people in the Mediterranean living longer and longer lives — and with fertility rates low and youth unemployment soaring in Italy, Greece, Spain and Portugal — experts warn that Europe’s debt crisis is exacerbating a growing demographic crisis. In the coming years, they warn, there will be fewer workers paying into the social security system to support the pensions of older generations.
随着地中海地区老年人的寿命越来越长——以及意大利、希腊、西班牙和葡萄牙的生育率处于低位，青年失业率飙升——专家警告说，欧洲债务危机加剧了日益严重的人口结构危机。他们警告说，未来几年，向社会保障系统缴纳资金，从而为前几代人提供养老金的工作人群人数会减少。
The Melis siblings were all born in Perdasdefogu to Francesco Melis and Eleonora Mameli, who had a general store. Consolata, 105, is the oldest; then Claudina, 100; Maria, 98; Antonino, 94; Concetta, 92; Adolfo, 90; Vitalio, 87; Fida Vitalia, 81; and Mafalda, the baby at 79. Their descendants now account for about a third of the village.
梅利斯家九姐弟都出生在佩尔达斯代福古，他们的父母弗朗切斯科·梅利斯(Francesco Melis)和伊丽奥诺拉·马梅利(Eleonora Mameli)在这里开了一家杂货店。九个人中年龄最大的是康索莱塔，105岁，然后是克劳迪纳，100岁；玛丽亚(Maria)，98岁；安东尼诺(Antonino)，94岁；康斯塔(Concetta)，92岁；阿道夫(Adolfo)，90岁；维塔利奥(Vitalio)，87岁；菲达·维塔利亚(Fida Vitalia)，81岁；马法尔达(Mafalda)最小，79岁。现在，他们的后代占了全村人口的大约三分之一。
The siblings remember when malaria was rampant in Sardinia before it was eradicated with the help of the United States after the Second World War. They remember the time before Perdasdefogu got electricity in the 1950s, and before it had running water. “We used to have to carry a bucket to the well,” said Claudina, sitting at home among family members a day before her birthday.
他们还记得，第二次世界大战之后，美国人帮助他们根除了撒丁岛一度肆虐的疟疾，也记得20世纪50年代之前佩尔达斯代福古还没有通电时的情况，以及没有通自来水时的情况。在她生日前一天，克劳迪纳说，“我们当时只能提着桶去井边打水。”当时她坐在家里，周围都是她的家人。
“Young people today don’t know what it is to work,” she said. She meant that they had not known hard physical labor. But the remark could just as easily apply to Italy’s youth unemployment rate, which is 38 percent. Many qualified Italians leave for better jobs abroad in a brain drain that weighs on the country’s mood and economy.
她说，“今天的年轻人可不知道什么叫干活儿。”她的意思是，年轻人不了解艰苦的体力劳动。但是，这句话用来指意大利38%的年轻人失业率也很贴切。许多有能力的意大利人正在离开故土，去国外寻找更好的工作，人才外流现象打击了意大利的士气和经济。
Stefano Lai, 27, one of Claudina’s many grandchildren, grew up in Cagliari, the capital of Sardinia, and is now doing a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical engineering at the prestigious Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna in Pisa. He would like to stay in Sardinia, or even in Italy, but does not have his hopes up.
斯特凡诺·赖(Stefano Lai)是克劳迪纳众多孙辈中的一个，今年27岁，从小在撒丁岛首府卡利亚里长大，目前在比萨著名的圣安娜高等学校(Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna)做生物医学工程方面的博士后研究。他想留在撒丁岛，甚至留在意大利就行，但是对此他没有抱太大希望。
“Living your life near the ones you love is priceless compared to having to leave, even for work,” Stefano Lai said. His cousin Alberto, 19, who lives in Perdasdefogu, agreed.
斯特凡诺·赖说，“比起必须离开的处境，就算是为了工作才离开，生活在你爱的家人周围，真是无价的幸福。”他的表弟阿尔贝托(Alberto)同意这个说法。阿尔贝托19岁，住在佩尔达斯代福古。
The Melises indeed appear to be a happy family. They credit their longevity to their Catholic faith and their lack of stress. They do not argue much. “If you hit them, they’ll caress you,” said Giacomo Mameli, a cousin. They keep one another company and laugh at one another’s jokes.
梅利斯九姐弟看上去确实是幸福的一家人。他们把长寿归功于信仰天主教和生活得无忧无虑。他们不是争强好胜的人。“如果你打他们，他们会拥抱你，”表亲贾科莫·马梅利(Giacomo Mameli)说。他们彼此陪伴，用笑话逗乐彼此。
At 105, Consolata has worn widow’s black since losing her husband in 1968, but has not lost her sense of humor. When asked to take off her glasses to be photographed, she laughed and said, “Now, I’ll find a boyfriend.”
105岁的康索莱塔穿着寡妇穿的黑色外衣，因为她的丈夫在1968年过世了，但她并没有丧失幽默感。当记者请她摘下眼镜以便拍照时，她笑着说：“这下我就找到男朋友了。”
Consolata lives in a simple two-room apartment filled with religious images and family photos, in the same house as other family members. She had 14 children, of whom nine survive. “Now there’s television. Before there wasn’t,” said one of her nieces, Anna Maria Melis, as the family squeezed into Consolata’s sitting room to share stories.
康索莱塔住在一所有两个房间的寓所里，陈设很简朴，满屋都是宗教图片和家人的照片。她的寓所跟其他家庭成员的寓所在同一栋楼里。她有14个孩子，其中9个活了下来。“现在这里有电视了，以前可没有。”她的一个侄女安娜·玛丽亚·梅利斯(Anna Maria Melis)说，当时家人们正挤在康索莱塔的客厅里聊天。
Consolata still cooks her own vegetable soup, often eating half for lunch and warming the leftovers for dinner. Her sister Claudina does, too. “I can still make soup,” she said a day before her 100th birthday. “I can also still speak ill of people,” she added with a wink. Asked how she passed the time each day, Claudina laughed. “I move from one chair to another,” she said.
康索莱塔仍然自己给自己做蔬菜浓汤吃，常常吃一半当午餐，剩下的再热一热当晚餐。妹妹克劳迪纳也这是这样。“我仍然可以做汤吃，”她在100岁生日的前一天说。“我也仍然可以讲别人的坏话，”她眨了一下眼睛。当被问及每天如何打发时间时，克劳迪纳笑了起来说，“我一会儿坐坐这张椅子，一会儿又坐坐那张。”
Vitalio, a retired postman, and Antonino work almost every day in a vegetable garden they have on the outskirts of the village, overlooking the wooded mountains of eastern Sardinia. As the sun began to set there on a recent evening, they showed off their neat rows of onions, huge bunches of garlic, and fava beans and chickpeas thriving in their little green pods.
维塔利奥是一名退休的邮递员，他和安东尼诺几乎每天都在自己的菜园里干活儿，菜园就在村子边上，俯瞰着撒丁岛东部的山林。前不久的一个傍晚，太阳开始西沉时，他们得意地展示了他们的劳动成果：一排排整齐的洋葱、一大串一大串的大蒜，还有绿色的小豆荚里的蚕豆和鹰嘴豆。
The Melis siblings say they eat and drink almost everything, but always in moderation. Most of the nine have lived their entire lives in the same village. Their grandchildren, rooted in Sardinia but branching out around Italy and the world, are in awe. “I’d like to live to be 105, too,” Stefano Lai said. “But in their condition. They’re so lively and ironic. They still like to live.”
梅利斯九姐弟说，他们差不多什么食物都吃，但总是适可而止。他们中的大多数人一辈子都住在同一个村子里。而根在撒丁岛，散居在意大利和世界各地的孙辈们对他们非常敬佩。“我也想活到105岁，”斯特凡诺·赖说。“但是要活得像他们那样。他们活力十足，整天插科打诨。他们还没活够呢。”