People who weren’t even born when Pennsylvania Station was demolished in 1963 burn with indignation. It’s a wound that won’t heal.
没能赶在宾夕法尼亚车站(Pennsylvania Station)于1963年被拆除前出生的人，心中的愤懑一直郁郁难平。这是个永远无法愈合的伤口了。
The case of London’s magnificent Euston Arch, which was torn down only a year before Penn Station’s fall, is equally galling. But in recent years a movement has developed to reconstruct its majestic Doric arch, spurred by the discovery of fragments of the sandstone structure in a river.
而伦敦那宏伟的尤斯顿拱门(Euston Arch)的案例，也同样令人难以释怀，它就是在宾站陷落前一年惨遭拆除的。不过，近年来渐渐兴起了一项运动，意在重建这座华丽的多利安式拱形建筑，起因是有人在一条河中发现了这座砂岩建筑的断壁残垣。
When Philip Hardwick designed Euston Station, part of a rail line to Birmingham, he included a remarkable feature. In an open area at the head of a driveway to the station, Hardwick built a 70-foot-high arch, completed in the late 1830s. In his 2012 book “Euston Station Through Time” (Amberley), John Christopher says it had “no practical function other than to proclaim that here was the future.”
当初，菲利普·哈德威克(Philip Hardwick)在为通往伯明翰(Birmingham)的铁路线设计尤斯顿车站时，其方案中包括了一座引人注目的标志性建筑。在通往此车站的一条车道尽头，哈德威克在开阔地带建造起一座70英尺高（约21.3米）的拱门，落成于19世纪30年代晚期。约翰·克里斯多夫(John Christopher)在他2012年出版的新书《时光中的尤斯顿车站》（Euston Station Through Time，Amberley出版社）中说，那道拱门“除了宣称‘这里就是未来’之外，没有任何实际用途。”
Sydney & London Properties, which owns the area adjacent to the station, has issued a planning document for redeveloping it. According to the report, the 19th-century critic Augustus Welby Pugin considered the arch a waste. In his opinion, “this piece of Brobdingnagian absurdity must have cost the Company a sum which would have built a first-rate station, replete with convenience, and which would have been really grand from its simplicity.”
现在拥有该车站周边土地的Sydney & London地产公司，发布了一份重新开发计划书。根据这份报告，那位19世纪的批评家奥古斯都·韦尔比·皮金(Augustus Welby Pugin)曾认为这座拱门是个浪费。在他看来，“这种巨人国（Brobdingnagian，源自斯威夫特的小说《格列佛游记》——译注）一般的荒诞建筑，肯定花了该公司的一大笔钱，而这笔钱原本可用来建造一座一流的、有完善便利设施的车站，在简约的设计中显出十足的气派。”
In the 19th century, Euston Station and the surrounding area grew rapidly, and it was soon engulfed by offices and hotels.
在19世纪的时候，尤斯顿车站及其周边地带发展迅猛，这里很快就被一座座商务楼和酒店吞没了。
The need to rebuild the old station became apparent in the 1950s, and the new design called for the demolition of the Euston Arch. The London County Council approved the removal as long as the arch was relocated, but the railroad said that would cost £190,000 and demurred. The battle was drawn.
到了20世纪50年代，翻建旧车站的需求浮出水面，新的设计方案要求拆除那座尤斯顿拱门。伦敦郡议会(London County Council)同意拆掉拱门，但要求把这道门重新安置在另一处地点。但该铁路公司说，那会需要19万英镑（约合人民币190.2万元）的开销，并提出反对。一场旷日持久的斗争开始了。
Unlike the United States, Britain had a full complement of preservation organizations, and the Ancient Monuments Society, the Georgian Group, the Royal Academy and the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings lined up in support of preservation, or at least relocation.
与美国不一样的是，英国保护组织的体系十分完善，于是，古迹协会(Ancient Monuments Society)、乔治小组(Georgian Group)、皇家学院(Royal Academy)以及古建筑保护协会(Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings)都站成一排支持保护文物，或至少要安排迁址。
Despite these mossy-sounding names, it wasn’t just old fogies who were outraged. On Oct. 17, 1961, The Times of London reported that two young architects had climbed to the top of arch and hung a banner reading, “Save the Arch.” The structure came down a year later.
尽管那些机构的名字听起来都有点老掉牙，但感到义愤填膺的人并不只是顽固守旧派。1961年10月17日，伦敦《泰晤士报》报道，两名年轻的建筑师爬上了拱门顶部，并挂出一条横幅，上面写着：“拯救这座拱门”。一年后，这座建筑还是被拆除了。
Across the Atlantic, the same battle was developing simultaneously over Penn Station, whose doom was announced in 1961. But in New York, the idea of architectural preservation was not well established, and the old-line preservationists, fearful of jeopardizing the nascent landmark movement by doing battle over a building completed in 1910, were silent or even supportive of demolition. On Seventh Avenue as in London, the protest line was joined by architects, including Philip Johnson, Norval White and Jordan Gruzen. Demolition began in October of 1963.
与此同时，在大洋彼岸，同样的斗争围绕着宾夕法尼亚车站展开了，它的死期在1961年被宣布。但是在当时的纽约，建筑保护的理念并未充分建立起来，那些保守的保护主义者们，因为害怕一旦宣战保护一座1910年落成的建筑，会危及刚刚兴起的地标运动，所以纷纷保持了沉默，甚至对拆除工作表示出支持。在第七大道，正如在伦敦一样，许多建筑师加入了建筑保护的阵线，包括菲利普·约翰逊(Philip Johnson)、诺弗尔·怀特(Norval White)和乔丹·格鲁岑(Jordan Gruzen)。
Their British counterparts had fought an almost equally hopeless battle, especially after Prime Minister Harold Macmillan judged saving the arch too expensive. Frank Valori, the demolition contractor, took the job reluctantly, and gave a silver model of the arch to the Victorian Society. In accepting it, The Times reported, Lord Esher, the society’s president, declared that demolition laid bare “the low mental capacity of what were called top people.”
他们的英国战友们几乎在为同样一场无望的战斗而奋战着，尤其是在首相哈罗德·麦克米伦(Harold Macmillan)裁定，保留这座拱门的成本过高之后。拆迁承包商弗兰克·瓦洛里(Frank Valori)不情不愿地接下了这份工作，并送给维多利亚协会(Victorian Society)一座银质的拱门模型。据《泰晤士报》报道，在接受了这座模型后，该协会的主席艾舍尔爵士(Lord Esher)宣称，那次拆除事件揭露出“那些所谓的高层人士的低智商水平”。
Interest in 19th-century buildings grew in England after the loss of the arch. In 1994, Dan Cruickshank, a historian, found the resting place of many of its stones in a river in East London. This led to the creation of the Euston Arch Trust, whose website eustonarch.org has photos of the stones.
失去这座拱门之后，英格兰地区对19世纪建筑的兴趣却与日俱增。1994年，历史学家丹·克鲁克山(Dan Cruickshank)在伦敦东部的一条河流中，发现了堆积着大量拱门石料的地点。尤斯顿拱门基金会(Euston Arch Trust)由此成立，该基金组织的网站eustonarch.org已经展示出了这些石头的照片。
Network Rail, which owns many railroad tracks and stations, is considering a £1 billion renovation of Euston Station, and Atkins Global, a design and engineering firm, has laid out a variety of options for the arch, among them recreating the structure wholesale; recreating only its footprint; and forgetting it entirely. Reconstruction is obviously a favorite scheme.
拥有众多铁道线路和火车站的英国铁路网(Network Rail)，目前正在考虑一项总额10亿英镑（约合人民币99.76亿元）的尤斯顿车站重建计划，景观设计与工程公司阿特金斯国际(Atkins Global)已为这座拱门提出各种各样的方案选项，其中包括整体结构重建，再现拱门“足印”，以及完全忘记历史、重新设计等等。重建显然是最受欢迎的一个计划。
The arch might be entirely rebuilt out of new stone, appearing all crisp and clean. Or the original aged stones could be mixed in with new ones. They might be set up as some sort of skeleton, without any contemporary material at all.
这座拱门有可能完全用新石料再建，看上去簇新、整洁；或者，当初那些旧原料可能会被安插在新石头当中；还有可能，只用旧石料搭建一个框架，完全不用任何现代的材料。
Is the Euston Arch distinguished enough to warrant a replica — often denounced as a “mere replica”? Would the damaged stones themselves, laid out in a field, be more evocative of the lost arch? Or would a rebuilt arch — half original material, half new — better serve?
尤斯顿拱门是否已经重要到一定需要个复制品了呢——哪怕人们常嗤之以鼻地称之为“只是个复制品”？把那些已经受损的石头在某个地方堆砌起来，是否就能让人更易想起这座失落的拱门呢？或者，采用一半原料、一半新料重建拱门的方式更好呢？
If the arch is indeed rebuilt, it will be a bittersweet moment for those who mourn Pennsylvania Station. Its stones may lie in the Jersey Meadowlands, but Seventh Avenue will never see its imperial colonnade again.
如果这座拱门真的得以重建，对于那些悼念宾夕法尼亚车站的人来说，这将是一个悲喜交加的时刻。车站的石料或许是可以安置在新泽西梅多兰兹(Meadowlands)，但在第七大道却再也看不见那道辉煌的柱廊了。