Appealing for peace 50 years ago, President John F. Kennedy told the Irish Parliament, “The problems of the world cannot possibly be solved by skeptics or cynics, whose horizons are limited by the obvious realities. We need men who can dream of things that never were and ask, why not?”
50年前，当约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)总统呼吁和平时对爱尔兰议会说 ，“怀疑论者和愤世嫉俗者不可能解决这个世界的问题，他们的视野受到众所周知的现实的限制。我们需要这样的人，他能提出从未有过的梦想，还能反问，我们为什么不能这样？”
Today, more and more people are dreaming of a world free of poverty.
今天，越来越多的人在梦想一个没有贫困的世界。
In April, the Development Committee of the World Bank set the goal of ending extreme poverty by the year 2030. More recently, the United Nations General Assembly working group on global goals concluded that “eradicating poverty in a generation is an ambitious but feasible goal.” As one who wrote in 2005 that ours was the generation that could end extreme poverty, I am pleased to see this idea take hold at the highest levels.
今年4月，世界银行发展委员会(Development Committee of the World Bank)设定了到2030年根除极端贫困的目标 。更近一些时候，联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)全球目标工作组得出结论称，“在一代人的时间里根除贫困是一个雄心勃勃的目标 ，不过也是一个可行的目标 。”正如我2005年所写的，我们就是能够终结贫困的一代，我欣喜地看到 ，这种观点在最高层人士中已经得到认可。
Are these errant dreams as the world barrels toward more confusion, conflict and climate change, or is there something substantial in the recent wave of high-level interest in the idea? The evidence is on the side of the optimists. And the evidence also supports both those who favor more markets and those who favor more public-private strategies. It’s all a matter of context.
随着世界快速地朝着更加混乱、冲突更频繁、气候变化更剧烈的方向迈进，这些梦想是否只是异想天开? 还是说，这种观点在高层人士中引发的最近一波浓厚兴趣，蕴含着某些重大意义？相关证据站在乐观主义者一方。证据还支持那些更青睐市场的群体，和那些更青睐政府与私营部门的合作战略的群体。归根结底，大环境才是关键。
The global picture will surprise doomsayers. According to the World Bank’s scorecard, the proportion of households in developing countries below the extreme-poverty line (now measured as $1.25 per person per day at international prices) has declined sharply, from 52 percent in 1980, to 43 percent in 1990, 34 percent in 1999, and 21 percent in 2010. Even sub-Saharan Africa, the region with the most recalcitrant poverty, is finally experiencing a notable decline, from 58 percent in 1999 to 49 percent in 2010.
全球的情况将出乎悲观主义者的意料。根据世界银行的计算结果，在极端贫困线（目前的衡量标准是根据国际价格，每人日均消费1.25美元 ）以下的发展中国家家庭的比例 ，已经出现大幅下跌，这个比例从1980年的52%，下降到1990年的43%，再降到 1999年的34%，之后又降到2010年的21%。就连贫困现象最根深蒂固的非洲撒哈拉以南地区，也经历了显著的极端贫困比例下降过程，那里的比例从1999年的58%降到了2010年的49%。
The gains are more marked in health. According to the latest Unicef study this month, the mortality rate of children under 5 in Africa declined from 177 deaths per 1,000 births in 1990, to 155 per 1,000 births in 2000, to 98 per 1,000 in 2012. This is still too high, but the rate of progress is rapid and accelerating.
健康方面的进展则更加显著。根据联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)本月发布的最新研究，在非洲，五岁以下儿童的死亡比例从1990年的每1000名新生儿死亡177例，下降到2000年的每1000名新生儿死亡155例，再降到2012年的每1000名新生儿死亡98例。这个比例依然相当高，然而它的下降速度很快，而且还在加速。
While the recent gains are undoubted, the question is how to ensure that progress on incomes, health and other dimensions of poverty eradication (including access to schooling, safe water, electricity, sewerage) continues until extreme poverty is vanquished. Debates rage on this question and often shed more heat than light.
最近的进展不容置疑，然而问题是，在根除贫困上，如何才能确保收入 、健康和这个问题其他方面的进展（包括获得入学机会、获得安全的水电供应和排污设施）能够持续下去，直到极端贫困现象消失。人们为这个问题争论得不可开交，结果往往是发泄了更多的怒火，而不是阐明了己方的观点。
Here are the basics: economic growth, and hence a market economy, is vital. Africa’s poverty is declining in part because its growth rate picked up from 2.3 percent per year during the lackluster years of 1990-2000 to 5.7 percent during 2000-10. Without economic growth, there cannot be sustained gains in income, health and other areas. Continued progress depends on heavy investments in major infrastructure — water, electricity, waste management — and these in turn depend on large-scale private financing, hence a suitable market framework.
以下是最为基础的东西：经济增长，所以市场经济至关重要。非洲的贫困水平正在下降，这在某种程度上正是因为其年经济增长速度从乏善可陈的1990年到2000年期间的2.3%，提高到了2000年到2010年期间的5.7%。没有经济增长，就不可能有收入、卫生和其他领域的持续改善。持续的进步有赖于加大对重要基础设施，如水、电和废物管理的投资，这意味着大规模的私人投资至关重要，因此又依赖于恰当的市场框架。
So anti-market sentiment is no friend of poverty reduction. But neither is free-market fundamentalism. Economic growth and poverty reduction can’t be achieved by free markets alone. Disease control, public education, the promotion of new science and technology, and protection of the natural environment are public functions that must align with private market forces.
因此，反对市场的态度是不利于减少贫困的。但自由市场原教旨主义同样也不利于减少贫困。自由市场无法凭一己之力实现经济增长和贫困水平降低这个两个目标。疾病控制、公共教育、推广新科技、保护自然环境都是公共职能，但必须与私人市场力量结合。
Consider two keys to Africa’s recent poverty reduction. The first is the introduction of cellphones, which have revolutionized communication and much else in both remote African villages and the streets of Manhattan. Smartphones are poised to transform education, health care, finance and agricultural value chains. Malaria control, made possible by new technologies, including long-lasting bed nets, rapid diagnostic tests and a new generation of medicines, has also played a vital role in reducing poverty in Africa.
想想最近非洲的贫困状况有所缓解的两个关键因素。首先是手机的引入。不管是在曼哈顿街头，还是在偏远的非洲农村，手机都让通讯和许多其他东西发生了革命性的改变。智能手机则预计会让教育、卫生保健、金融和农业价值链发生变革。其次，新技术让防治疟疾成为了可能，这包括使用寿命较长的蚊帐、快速诊断检测和新一代药物，也在降低非洲的贫困水平中发挥了重要作用。
In both cases, the private sector has been essential, not only in developing breakthrough technologies but also enabling them to spread in a short time. Hundreds of millions of cellphones and hundreds of millions of bed nets have helped slash rural poverty in the past few years.
在这两个关键因素中，私营部门都必不可少，这不仅体现在研发突破性技术上，也体现在让这些突破性技术在短时间内得以扩散。在过去几年，数亿部手机和数亿床蚊帐帮助减少了农村地区的贫困状况。
Yet the public sector is also critical. Public funds finance crucial scientific and technological breakthroughs. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria, an agency backed by international public funds, has financed the mass distribution of the bed nets. Malaria is down by at least 30 percent as a result. Smartphone applications for community health workers are now similarly being hugely scaled up with increased public as well as private backing.
但公共部门也同样至关重要。来自政府的资金为关键的科技突破提供资金。来自全球各国的政府资金支持的机构全球抗击艾滋病、结核病和疟疾基金(The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria)为大规模发放蚊帐提供了经费。因此，疟疾的发病率降低了至少30%。同样，公共部门和私营部门当前对面向社区卫生工作者的智能手机应用的支持都越来越多。
One can say that the fight to end poverty is helping to forge a new kind of mixed capitalism. Old debates of public versus private are being superseded by new strategies that involve both the public and private sectors. The need for both will become more urgent as climate change and water scarcity intensify. Also, the idea of bold global goals’ driving bold actions is proving the cynics wrong. A global commitment to ending extreme poverty will spur creativity and action.
有人会说，消除贫困的斗争正在帮助打造一种新的混合资本主义。公私部门均有涉及的新策略正在取代以前公私对立的辩论。随着气候变化和水资源稀缺问题的加剧，对公私部门携手合作的需求将变得更加迫切。同时，大胆的全球目标会推动大胆的行动这一点正在证明，愤世嫉俗者错了。一个根除极端贫困的全球承诺将会激发更多创新和行动。
As Kennedy also declared a half-century ago, “By defining our goal more clearly — by making it seem more manageable and less remote — we can help all people to see it, to draw hope from it, and to move irresistibly toward it.”
正如肯尼迪在半个世纪前所说的那样，“通过更清晰地定义我们的全球目标，让它看起来更容易实现，不那么遥不可及，我们能帮助所有人看到这个目标，从中汲取希望，并以不可阻挡之势向着这个目标前进。”