MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — Somewhere in all of this, there must be a planet where the volcanoes spout chocolate.
加利福尼亚山景——在宇宙的某个地方一定有一颗行星，那里的火山可以喷出巧克力。
Astronomers reported Monday that there could be as many as 40 billion habitable Earth-size planets in the galaxy, based on a new analysis of data from NASA’s Kepler spacecraft.
在周一发表的报告中，天文学家们说，根据对美国国家航空航天局(NASA)开普勒望远镜的最新数据分析，在银河系中可能存在多达400亿颗可居住的、大小与地球差不多的行星。
One of every five sun-like stars in the galaxy has a planet the size of Earth circling it in the Goldilocks zone — not too hot, not too cold — where surface temperatures should be compatible with liquid water, according to a herculean three-year calculation based on data from the Kepler spacecraft by Erik Petigura, a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley.
加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的研究生埃里克·佩蒂古拉(Erik Petigura)根据来自开普勒望远镜的大量数据进行了为期三年的统计，结果显示，银河系里每五颗与太阳类似的恒星中，就有一颗恒星的周围环绕着一颗地球那么大的卫星，并且是处在适居带(Goldilocks)的既不太热也不太冷的地带——卫星的表面温度可以容许液态水的存在。
Mr. Petigura’s analysis represents a major step toward the main goal of the Kepler mission, which was to measure what fraction of sun-like stars in the galaxy have Earth-size planets. Sometimes called eta-Earth, it is an important factor in the so-called Drake equation used to estimate the number of intelligent civilizations in the universe. Mr. Petigura’s paper, published Monday in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, puts another smiley face on a cosmos that has gotten increasingly friendly and fecund-looking over the last 20 years.
佩蒂古拉的分析代表着向开普勒任务(Kepler mission)的主要目标迈出的一大步。开普勒任务是为了测量在银河系中，有多少与太阳类似的恒星拥有与地球类似的行星。该数据有时被称作eta-Earth,是所谓的德雷克公式(Drake equation)中的一个重要因子。德雷克公式是用来测量宇宙中高智文明的一个公式。在过去20年里，宇宙似乎显得越来越友善而丰饶了，而佩蒂古拉的这篇发表在周一的《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Science)上的论文，是它露出的又一张笑脸。
“It seems that the universe produces plentiful real estate for life that somehow resembles life on Earth,” Mr. Petigura said.
佩蒂古拉说，“宇宙似乎为与地球生活有些许类似的生活准备了相当多的空间。”
Over the last two decades, astronomers have logged more than 1,000 planets around other stars, so-called exoplanets, and Kepler, in its four years of life before being derailed by a mechanical pointing malfunction last May, has compiled a list of some 3,500 more candidates. The new result could steer plans in the next few years and decades to find a twin of the Earth — Earth 2.0, in the argot — that is close enough to here to study.
过去20年里，天文学家们记载了围绕其他恒星运行的1000多颗行星，即所谓的“系外行星”，而开普勒望远镜则收集了一份包含另外大约3500个候选行星的名单。在今年5月因为一次机械指示故障而停用之前，开普勒望远镜已经服役了四年。最新的结果可能会在未来几年或几十年指导人类寻找地球的孪生姐妹——用黑话说就是地球2.0的行动，这颗星球必须距离地球足够近，以方便研究。
The nearest such planet might be only 12 light-years away. “Such a star would be visible to the naked eye,” Mr. Petigura said.
距离最近的此类行星可能离地球只有12光年。佩蒂古拉说，“这样的行星应该是肉眼能看到的。”
His result builds on a report earlier this year by David Charbonneau and Courtney Dressing of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who found that about 15 percent of the smaller and more numerous stars known as red dwarfs have Earth-like planets in their habitable zones. Using slightly less conservative assumptions, Ravi Kopparapu from Pennsylvania State University found that half of all red dwarfs have such planets. Astronomers estimate that there are at least 200 billion stars of all types in the Milky Way galaxy, room for the imagination, and — who knows — perhaps for a few microbes or more complicated creatures to roam.
他的发现以今年早些时候哈佛-史密森尼天体物理中心(Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics)的大卫·夏邦诺(David Charbonneau)和考特妮·德雷辛(Courtney Dressing)的一份报告为基础。那份报告发现，在体积更小、数量更多的红矮星中，有大约15%在它们的适居带上拥有像地球这样的行星。宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Pennsylvania State University)的拉维·科帕拉鲁(Ravi Kopparapu)基于相对没那么保守的假设发现，有一半的红矮星拥有这样的行星。天文学家估计，在银河系中有至少2000亿颗类型各异的恒星，这就给了我们想象的空间，或许还有——谁知道呢——一些微生物或更复杂的生物在漫游。
Geoffrey Marcy of the University of California, Berkeley, who supervised Mr. Petigura’s research and was a co-author of the paper along with Andrew Howard of the University of Hawaii, said: “This is the most important work I’ve ever been involved with. This is it. Are there inhabitable Earths out there?”
加州大学伯克利分校的杰佛瑞·马西(Geoffrey Marcy)指导了佩蒂古拉的研究，他和夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)的安德鲁·霍华德(Andrew Howard)一起，都是这篇论文的合作者。马西说：“这是我参与过的最重要的研究。就是它了。还有其他可居住的地球吗？”
“I’m feeling a little tingly,” he said.
他说，“我感到有点激动。”
At a news conference Friday discussing the results, astronomers erupted in praise of the Kepler mission and its team. Natalie Batalha, a Kepler leader from the NASA Ames Research Center, described the project and its members as “the best of humanity rising to the occasion.”
在上周五旨在探讨这些研究结果的新闻发布会上，天文学家们对开普勒任务及其团队大加赞赏。NASA艾姆斯研究中心(NASA Ames Research Center)开普勒项目的一名负责人娜塔莉·巴塔利亚(Natalie Batalha)称这个项目及其成员代表着“人类面对这个挑战起而行之的最优秀品质”。
According to Mr. Petigura’s new calculation, the fraction of stars with Earth-like planets is 22 percent, plus or minus 8 percent, depending on exactly how you define the habitable zone.
根据佩蒂古拉的最新测算，在所有恒星中，拥有类似地球的行星占22%，这个比例有上下8个百分点的浮动空间，具体取决于对适居带的定义。
There are several caveats. Although these planets are Earth-size, nobody knows what their masses are and thus whether they are rocky like the Earth, or balls of ice or gas, let alone whether anything can, or does — or ever will — live on them.
需要做出一些解释。尽管这些行星和地球差不多大，但没人知道它们的质量是多少，因此也就不知道它们是像地球这样像一块石头，还是一个冰球或气球，更不用说是否有任何东西可能、正在或者将会在上面居住。
There is reason to believe, from recent observations of other worlds, however, that at least some Earth-size planets, if not all of them, are indeed rocky. Last week, two groups of astronomers announced that an Earth-size planet named Kepler 78b that orbits its sun in 8.5 hours has the same density as the Earth, though it is too hot to support life.
然而，从最近对其他天体的观察来看，有理由相信，即使不是全部，至少也有一些地球大小的行星是由岩石构成的。上周，两组天文学家宣布，一颗叫做开普勒78b的地球大小的行星，轨道周期为8.5小时，密度和地球相同，不过表面温度太高，不适宜生命存在。
“Nature,” as Mr. Petigura put it, “knows how to make rocky Earth-size planets.”
正如佩蒂古拉所说，“大自然知道如何制造出和地球差不多大小的、石头质地的行星。”
Also, the number is more uncertain than it might have been because Kepler’s pointing system failed before it could complete its prime survey. As a result, Mr. Petigura and his colleagues had to extrapolate from planets slightly larger than Earth and with slightly smaller, tighter orbits. For the purposes of his analysis “Earth-size” was anything from one to two times the diameter of the Earth, and Earth-like orbits were between 400 and 200 days.
此外，由于开普勒望远镜的指示系统在完成主要的调查之前失灵，这个数字的不确定性进一步加大。佩蒂古拉和他的同事不得不根据比地球稍大的、轨道略小、略紧的行星进行推断。在他的分析中，“与地球大小类似”是直径为地球直径一到两倍的所有行星，“与地球轨道相似”指的是轨道周期为400到200天。
Dr. Batalha said, “We don’t yet have any planet candidates that are exact analogues of the Earth in terms of size, orbit or star type.”
巴塔利亚博士说，我们还没有发现任何与地球在大小、轨道或恒星类型方面相似的行星。
Meanwhile, in an innovation borrowed from other data-intensive fields like particle physics, Mr. Petigura designed a computer pipeline so that he could inject fake planets into the data — 40,000 in all — and see how efficiently his program could detect planets of different sizes and orbits.
与此同时，佩蒂古拉借鉴了粒子物理学等其他数据密集领域，并进行了创新：他设计了一个计算机流水线，可以在数据中注入虚假的卫星——一共4万颗——以检测他的项目在探测不同大小和轨道的卫星上效率如何。
“It was a ton of work,” he recalled, explaining that he had to try out tens of billions of different periods for each star in order to find planets. “Fortunately, computers are cheap today.”
“工作量很大，”他回忆说，为了找到行星，他不得不对每一颗恒星尝试数百亿个不同周期。“幸运的是，计算机现在价格很便宜。”
Sara Seager, an exoplanet astronomer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was not involved in the work, said the pipeline testing had made the results believable. “I would say that small planets are everywhere and very common — no matter how you slice and dice the data. But Kepler is dead and we have no way to get any further data. So we’ll have to be satisfied with this as the final word, for now.”
麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)研究系外行星的天文学家萨拉·西格(Sara Seager)没有参与这项研究，她说流水线的测试让这个结果变得可信起来。“我必须说，小行星无处不在，十分常见——无论你以怎样不同的方式分析数据。但是开普勒望远镜已经不能用了，我们无从获得更进一步的数据。所以眼下，我们不得不暂时满足于目前的结论。”