There isn’t a woman in Washington who doesn’t traffic in at least five of the seven deadly sins. Greed, lust, envy, wrath and pride are the currencies of power in the nation’s capital, and some of its most dangerous brokers are women on television.
华盛顿所有的女人都至少犯过七宗罪中的五宗罪。贪婪、放荡、嫉妒、愤怒和骄傲是这个国家首都权力圈中的通货，电视上最危险的一些掮客是女人。
On “House of Cards,” the icily conniving Claire Underwood, played by Robin Wright, helped her husband, and herself, take over the White House. And television offers so many others, including Olivia Pope (Kerry Washington), the home-wrecking political fixer on “Scandal,” as well as pretty much every other prominent female on that amped-up ABC melodrama.
在《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)中，罗宾·怀特(Robin Wright)扮演的克莱尔·安德伍德(Claire Underwood)冷酷无情，纵容犯罪，帮助丈夫和自己入主白宫。电视上还有很多这样的女人，包括《丑闻》(Scandal)中破坏他人家庭的政治调停人奥利维亚·波普（Olivia Pope，凯莉·华盛顿[Kerry Washington]饰），其实ABC这部夸张的情节剧中，几乎每一个能干的女人都是如此。
Then of course there is Selina Meyer, the vice president played by Julia Louis-Dreyfus on “Veep,” who has all seven Capitol vices, including sloth and a bit of gluttony.
当然还有《副总统》(Veep)中朱莉娅·路易斯-德莱弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)扮演的副总统塞琳娜·迈耶(Selina Meyer)，她具有国会的所有七项恶习，包括懒惰和一点贪吃。
It’s not hard to understand why so many series are based in the nation’s capital. Political terrain is familiar: Washington, like show business, is everybody’s business. In a post-9/11 age, where terrorist attacks are a real threat, not a comic book danger, it’s convenient to set tales of conspiracy and global evildoing in Senate cloakrooms and East Wing ballrooms.
不难理解为什么那么多电视剧都以首都为背景。政治形势是观众们都熟悉的：和演艺圈一样，华盛顿是所有的人都关注的。在后9·11时代，恐怖袭击是真实的威胁，不是漫画书里的危险，所以把阴谋故事和世界性的罪恶安排在参议院的衣帽间和白宫东翼的舞厅里很方便。
But most of all, everybody hates politicians, so much so that contempt for Washington trumps even the most ingrained taboos about the portrayal of women on network television. Nobody expects a virtuous heroine in Congress or the White House.
但是最重要的是，大家都讨厌政客，以至于对华盛顿的藐视已经超过了电视对女人的描绘中最根深蒂固的禁忌。没人期望在国会或白宫看到正直的女主人公。
Feminism hasn’t won every battle, but it did at least teach media executives to worry about charges of sexism or misogyny. On most network dramas, it is almost unthinkable to portray lead female characters as selfish, craven or incompetent, especially when they are serving the public good as detectives, firefighters and doctors. Heroines on series like “NCIS: Los Angeles” or “The Blacklist” are strikingly the same: strong, beautiful, dedicated and boring. Even shows with more complex heroines, like Alicia (Julianna Margulies), the governor’s mate-turned-lawyer in “The Good Wife,” don’t veer far from the norm. Alicia gives in to some temptations, but over all she is an honorable person professionally and personally — so much so that in a skit on Fuse the comedian Billy Eichner invented a coloring book about her good deeds.
女权主义没有打赢每一场战斗，但是它至少让媒体高管们担心为性别歧视或厌女症付出代价。在大多数电视剧中，你几乎不能想象把主要女性人物描绘成自私、懦弱或无能的人，尤其是那些为公益事业服务的人，比如侦探、消防员和医生。《海军罪案调查处：洛杉矶》(NCIS: Los Angeles)或《黑名单》(The Blacklist)这样的电视剧中的女主角有着惊人的相似：坚强，美丽，有献身精神，乏味无趣。甚至连那些更复杂的女主角，比如《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)中后来成为律师的州长夫人艾莉西娅（Alicia，朱莉安娜·玛格利斯[Julianna Margulies]饰），也差不多是这样的。艾莉西娅没有经受住某些诱惑，但总的来说，不管从事业上还是个人生活上，她都是个值得尊敬的人，以至于在Fuse频道的一个滑稽短剧中，喜剧演员比利·艾希纳(Billy Eichner)虚构了一本关于她的善行的彩色绘本。
On that show, even stupid women turn out to be smart. “The Good Wife” has cornered the market on the ditz savant. For a while, it was Mamie Gummer, who played a young, blond shark posing as a naïve, inexperienced lawyer. Now there is Robyn (Jess Weixler), a spacey blond investigator who unerringly scopes out the truth. Most of all there is Elsbeth (Carrie Preston), a loony redheaded lawyer who is actually brilliant.
在那部电视剧里，连蠢女人到最后都证明是聪明的。《傲骨贤妻》占领了白痴专家的市场。有一阵子是玛米·古默(Mamie Gummer)，她扮演一个假扮成天真的、没有经验的律师的年轻的金发专家。现在是罗宾（杰丝·威克斯勒[Jess Weixler]饰），一个看起来晕乎乎的金发调查员，但是她总能弄清真相。最显眼的是埃尔斯贝特（Elsbeth，卡莉·普勒斯顿[Carrie Preston]饰），一个实际上很聪明的疯狂的红发律师。
There are a few old-school villainesses on prime time, notably Madeleine Stowe as Victoria, an alluring, ruthless socialite on the soapy ABC drama “Revenge.” But that show, which is set in the Hamptons, is more of an arch throwback to “Dynasty” and “Knots Landing” than it is a reflection of contemporary mores. “Nashville,” on ABC, couldn’t sustain an Eve Harrington in a lead role, and accordingly the bad girl played by Hayden Panettiere has developed a soul.
黄金时段还有几位老式坏女人，最显眼的是玛德琳·斯托(Madeleine Stowe)在ABC频道的肥皂剧《复仇》(Revenge)中扮演的迷人、无情的名媛维多利亚(Victoria)。但是那部电视剧以汉普顿为故事发生地，更像是《豪门恩怨》(Dynasty)和《解开心结》(Knots Landing)等经典剧目的回归，而不是反映当代风情。ABC频道的《纳什维尔》(Nashville)不能让伊娃·哈林顿(Eve Harrington)式的人物当主角，所以海登·帕尼蒂尔(Hayden Panettiere)扮演的坏女孩后来良心发现了。
On broadcast networks comedies have more leeway, though it is interesting that one of the most ambitious, self-centered sitcom heroines in the 1980s and ’90s was a high-powered Washington journalist, Murphy Brown.
在电视上，喜剧有更大的发挥空间，不过有趣的是，20世纪八九十年代最有野心、最以自我为中心的情景喜剧女主角之一是精力充沛的华盛顿记者墨菲·布朗(Murphy Brown)。
Even premium television, with its penchant for the dark side, gives most of its heroines flaws that are transgressive but also forgivable. Edie Falco is a nurse with an addiction on “Nurse Jackie” (Showtime) and on “Orange Is the New Black” (Netflix), Taylor Schilling plays a woman serving time on drug charges. Both women are likable, even when their actions are not. That’s what makes “Girls” on HBO so distinctive: Lena Dunham’s shallow slackers are not nice or noble.
甚至连倾向于讲述黑暗面的收费电视也让大多数女主角们有些虽然违法，但是可以被原谅的缺点。在《护士当家》（Nurse Jackie，映时频道）中，伊迪·凡尔克(Edie Falco)扮演一个嗑药成瘾的护士；在《女子监狱》（Orange Is the New Black，Netflix频道）中，泰勒·席林(Taylor Schilling)扮演一个因毒品交易入狱的女人。这两个女人都很可爱，即使在她们的行为不那么可爱的时候。这正是HBO频道的《都市女孩》(Girls)如此独特的原因：莱娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)创作的那些肤浅而无所事事的女孩们既不好看也不高尚。
The more glaring exception is Washington, where there is apparently nothing sexist or old school about painting women as venal, self-serving and manipulative.
但华盛顿是个显著的例外，关于这里的剧集中没有显著的性别歧视，更没有老套地把女人描绘成唯利是图、自私自利、喜欢操纵别人的人。
“Scandal” is a nighttime soap in a contemporary setting, and while the plot lines — conspiracy, assassinations, blackmail — have grown ever more absurd, what doesn’t get old is the bad behavior of its lead women. Olivia is ostensibly the heroine, and she is sleeping with the president as well as his old friend and top-secret intelligence enforcer. Mellie (Bellamy Young), the angel-faced first lady, lies, schemes and recently in the Oval Office slapped her husband in the face, screaming, “You take everything from me!”
《丑闻》是以当代社会为背景的夜间肥皂剧，它的故事情节——阴谋、暗杀和勒索——变得越来越荒谬，但是一直没变的是主要女性角色的恶劣行径。奥利维亚(Olivia)是表面上的女主角，她不仅和总统发生了性关系，还和总统的老朋友、绝密情报官发生了性关系。有着天使面孔的第一夫人梅利耶（Mellie，贝拉米·扬[Bellamy Young]饰）不仅说谎、玩阴谋，最近还在总统办公室扇了丈夫一耳光，尖叫道，“你让我失去了一切！”
Neither of them are any match for Vice President Sally Langston (Kate Burton), a born-again Christian who murdered her husband and wants to destroy the president who put her on the ticket. The show’s creator, Shonda Rhimes, who invented more nuanced characters on her first hit series, “Grey’s Anatomy,” can get away with all these grotesque caricatures of women because they work in Washington — viewers expect no less.
她们谁都比不上副总统莎莉·兰斯顿（Sally Langston，凯特·伯顿[Kate Burton]饰），她是个重生的基督徒，她杀害了自己的丈夫，还想毁掉让她当选的总统。这部电视剧的创作者桑达·莱姆斯(Shonda Rhimes)在她的第一部热门电视剧《实习医生格蕾》(Grey’s Anatomy)中创作了更多有细微差别的人物。《丑闻》中这些古怪、夸张的女人之所以能被观众接受，只是因为她们在华盛顿工作，观众觉得那里的女人差不多都是这样的。
It’s not just elected officials who are pilloried; female government servants of all kinds are suspect.
受到嘲弄的不只是当选官员。各种女性公职人员也不可信。
On “The Americans,” on FX, there is good reason: The series follows a team of K.G.B. agents who pose as ordinary married suburbanites in the Reagan era. There, too, heroines do terrible things. Elizabeth (Keri Russell) allowed an informant to strangle her protégée, a young Nicaraguan revolutionary, because the girl’s ardor could jeopardize the mission Moscow assigned them. Greed put Nina (Annet Mehendru), an employee at the Russian Embassy, into the clutches of the F.B.I., though lust, especially other people’s, has kept her aloft and busy stealing secrets from both sides.
在福克斯频道的《美国谍梦》(The Americans)中，我们可以显然看到这一点：这部电视剧讲述的是里根时代伪装成普通郊区夫妇的两位克格勃特工。其中的女主角们也做各种可怕的事情。伊丽莎白（Elizabeth，凯莉·拉塞尔[Keri Russell]饰）默许一位线人勒死了她的门徒——一个年轻的尼加拉瓜革命者——因为这个女孩的狂热可能会危害莫斯科派给他们的任务。俄罗斯大使馆的员工尼娜（Nina，阿内·米汗德鲁[Annet Mehendru]饰）因为贪婪被联邦调查局抓住了把柄，但是欲望，尤其是别人对她的欲望，让她免于承担责任，还能忙着从两边窃取情报。
The joke of “Parks and Recreation” is that its heroine, Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler), is a public servant who is actually dedicated and idealistic — a mischievous volte-face of viewer expectations. “Veep” is a comedy that swims with the tide and is absolutely brutal about politics.
《公园与游憩》(Parks and Recreation)的有趣之处在于女主人公莱斯利·诺普（Leslie Knope，埃米·波勒[Amy Poehler]饰）实际上是个尽职的、理想主义的公职人员——这是对观众期待的恶作剧式的逆转。《副总统》是一部追随时代潮流的喜剧，对政治的诠释十分无情。
Selina, now running for president, is told she has to explain her position on abortion, and one aide suggests she give her perspective as a woman. “No, no, no,” Selina hisses, horrified. “I can’t identify myself as a woman. People can’t know that. Men hate that, and women who hate women hate that — which I believe is most women.”
塞琳娜正在竞选总统，她被告知必须说明自己在流产问题上的立场，一位助理建议她从女人的角度给出观点。“不，不，不，”塞琳娜惊恐地打断了对方，“我不能表明自己是女人。人们不能知道这一点。男人们讨厌这一点，厌恶女人的女人们也讨厌这一点——我觉得大多数女人都厌恶女人。”
The Amazon series “Alpha House,” about Republican senators sharing a house, is sweeter, but just as knowing, and there, too, Cynthia Nixon and Wanda Sykes play Democratic senators who if anything are even wilier than their G.O.P. counterparts.
亚马逊网站的电视剧《阿尔法屋》(Alpha House)更温和一点，它讲述的是几位合住在一栋房子里的共和党参议员，但是我们也看到，辛西娅·尼克松(Cynthia Nixon)和万达·赛克斯(Wanda Sykes)扮演的民主党参议员比这几位共和党参议员还要狡猾。
The Web series “Chasing the Hill” is a cynical, cinéma vérité-like look at campaigns that seems written more in sadness than in satire: It’s “Veep” for the readers of Roll Call. Robin Weigert plays Kristi Ryan, a congresswoman from California who faces a tough re-election battle. Kristi isn’t a monster, but she is hardly a role model: She is as jaundiced, short-tempered and self-centered as any other member of Congress. She’s not as wicked as Claire on “House of Cards”; she’s closer to Jackie Sharp (Molly Parker), that series’s unprincipled, manipulative majority whip. Jackie is in her own way more interesting than Claire, because she struggles, however briefly, with her conscience before betraying friends and colleagues. Fictional dramas are so drawn to Washington villainesses in part because it is still dangerous in real life to attack female politicians. Emily’s List, the political action committee that backs female candidates who support abortion rights, has turned sexist remarks into a useful fund-raising tool. Even Hillary Clinton, who is so often pilloried, manages to recast some attacks. Her supporters put a misogynist spin on Barack Obama’s put-down in a 2008 debate when he called Mrs. Clinton “likable enough.”
网络电视剧《向国会山奋进》(Chasing the Hill)以冷嘲热讽的态度、用纪录片的方式描绘竞选活动，其中的悲哀似乎多于讽刺，像是给《点名》(Roll Call)的读者拍的《副总统》。罗宾·魏格特(Robin Weigert)扮演来自加州的国会女议员克里斯蒂·莱恩(Kristi Ryan)，她面临着一场艰难的改选。克里斯蒂不是坏人，但她也不是典范：她和国会的任何其他成员一样偏执、易怒，以自我为中心。她没有《纸牌屋》中的克莱尔那么坏，更接近没有原则、善于操纵别人的多数党党鞭杰基·夏普（Jackie Sharp，莫莉·帕克[Molly Parker]饰）。杰基比克莱尔更有意思，她在背叛朋友和同事之前有过良心挣扎，尽管非常短暂。虚构电视剧对华盛顿的坏女人如此感兴趣，部分原因是在现实生活中，攻击女政客仍然有风险。政治运动委员会“艾米丽的名单”(Emily’s List)支持那些赞成流产权利的女候选人，该委员会把含有性别歧视的评论变成了有用的筹资手段。甚至连经常被公众嘲笑的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)也彻底扭转了某些攻击。在2008年的一次辩论中，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)称克林顿夫人“足够可爱”，她的支持者们因为奥巴马的这一贬低给他扣上了厌女症的帽子。
Most television documentaries about real-life politicians are guarded, if not flattering. That’s because so few women have had the chance to wield and abuse their power in a way that inspires a warts-and-all portrait like the one of Lyndon B. Johnson in the Broadway play “All the Way” — though Mrs. Clinton and Nancy Pelosi are nearly there.
大多数关于真实政治家的电视纪录片都在维护甚至奉承她们。那是因为没有几个女人有机会像百老汇戏剧《一路到底》(All the Way)中的林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)那样，毫不掩饰地行使和滥用自己的权力——虽然克林顿夫人和南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)几乎就是这样做的。
Showtime recently presented a biography, “Geraldine Ferraro: Paving the Way,” directed by its subject’s daughter, Donna Zaccaro, that was so positive — and defensive about the financial dealings of Ferraro’s husband — that it was almost a disservice. Ferraro, the congresswoman from Queens, was the first woman nominated for vice president by a major party, and she was more interesting than she was saintly. “All About Ann: Governor Richards of the Lone Star State,” on HBO, a similarly glowing portrait of Ann Richards, the former Texas governor who died in 2006, was a lot less forthcoming about her rockier passages than she was.
映时频道最近推出的纪录片《杰拉尔丁·费拉罗：铺平道路》(Geraldine Ferraro: Paving the Way)由这位女主人公的女儿唐娜·扎卡罗(Donna Zaccaro)导演。这部纪录片非常正面——而且为费拉罗丈夫的金融交易进行了辩护——但它几乎是在帮倒忙。费拉罗，这位来自皇后区的女议员，是第一位被主要政党提名为副总统的女人，她还算有趣，但谈不上圣洁。HBO频道的《关于安的一切：孤星之州的理查兹州长》(All About Ann: Governor Richards of the Lone Star State)讲述的是2006年去世的前得克萨斯州州长安·理查兹，它也是一部热情洋溢的赞美之作，对她冷酷一面的讲述远不够坦诚。
And that kind of restraint makes it all the more tempting to create fictional versions who are as corrupt and conniving in public office as their male counterparts.
这种限制让编剧们更想创作一些跟男政客们一样腐败、纵容的女政客。
There is gender equality of a kind in Washington. On television, it’s the one place where it’s safe to say that women are as bad as the men.
这也算是华盛顿的一种男女平等了。置身电视剧中的华盛顿，你可以放心地说，女人和男人一样坏。