Seth Meyers is the oldest, most experienced and most hostlike comedian to take the reins of NBC’s three-decade-old “Late Night.”
塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)是即将执掌NBC频道30年老牌节目《深夜秀》(Late Night)的年纪最大、最有经验、最像主持人的喜剧演员。
But starting Monday night, when he walks out into his shiny new studio at 30 Rockefeller Center, about 20 yards down the hall from where he has worked for the past 13 years on “Saturday Night Live,” the only thing that will matter is whether Mr. Meyers will be as funny as the three men who preceded him: David Letterman, Conan O’Brien and Jimmy Fallon.
但是从周一晚上起，当梅耶斯走进洛克菲勒中心30号楼闪亮的新演播室时——沿着过道走20码就是他工作了13年的《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的演播室——唯一重要的就是他是否能和前面三任主持人——大卫·莱特曼(David Letterman)、科南·奥布莱恩(Conan O’Brien)和吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)——一样有趣。
“You can’t worry about it until it’s time to worry about it,” Mr. Meyers said, sitting in his unprepossessing office at 30 Rock. He acknowledged the daunting track record he will be following: Each of the previous three hosts graduated from successful runs in the 12:35 a.m. slot of “Late Night” to the big time of 11:35 p.m. shows on a network.
“没到该担心的时候，就别担心，”梅耶斯坐在洛克菲勒中心30号楼他并不讨人喜欢的办公室里说。他承认他之前三位主持人的业绩令人敬畏：他们每个人都从凌晨12:35开播的《深夜秀》成功毕业，转战晚上11:35黄金时间开播的节目。
“I’m really looking forward to mid-March,” Mr. Meyers said. “When we’ve been on three weeks, it will be like looking at an ultrasound: Oh, I see its hand! Whereas right now we’ve got a heartbeat, but that’s all we’ve got.”
“我真的期待3月中旬，”梅耶斯说，“那时候我们已播出三周了，那感觉就像看着超声波检查的图像说：哦，我看到它的手了！而现在我们只能听到心跳，但是我们现在只有这个。”
Worrying is locked deep into Mr. Meyer’s DNA, but few around him on the new show share the condition. In his years as head writer for “SNL” and anchor of its “Weekend Update” segment, Mr. Meyers earned a reputation for reliability and intellect.
忧虑深深存在于梅耶斯的DNA里，但是跟他合作新节目的人几乎都不忧虑。梅耶斯在担任《周六夜现场》的主笔和“周末新闻”(Weekend Update)版块的主播时，赢得了值得信赖和有才智的美誉。
“Seth is a very stable guy,” said Michael Shoemaker, his producer and longtime friend. (And mature, of course. Mr. Meyers is 40. David Letterman was 34 when he started “Late Night” in 1982. When Mr. O’Brien took over in 1993, he was 30. And Mr. Fallon was 34 when he became host in 2009.)
“塞斯是个非常稳定的人，”迈克尔·休梅克(Michael Shoemaker)说。他是梅耶斯的制作人和老朋友（梅耶斯当然还很成熟。他四十岁了。大卫·莱特曼1982年开始主持《深夜秀》时34岁。奥布莱恩1993年接手时30岁。法伦2009年担任主持人时34岁）。
Lorne Michaels, the executive producer for both shows, who first hired Mr. Meyers for “SNL” and then installed him in “Late Night,” said: “Seth is ready for this. He has the poise and the breadth.”
罗恩·迈克尔斯(Lorne Michaels)是这两个节目的执行制作人，他先是雇佣梅耶斯参与《周六夜现场》，然后安排他到《深夜秀》。他说，“塞斯已经为此做好了准备。他足够镇定、宽宏。”
Most people who have worked with Mr. Meyers quickly cite his intelligence and his wide range of interests — from politics to sports to literature — as the qualities most likely to set him apart as a late-night host.
和梅耶斯工作过的人大多很快想到他与其他深夜节目主持人最大的不同是他的智慧和广泛的兴趣——从政治、体育到文学。
“There is nothing he can’t talk about,” Mr. Michaels said. “I would use the word ‘intellectual.’ But he’s somebody who thinks things through and finds a take on it. He is incredibly disciplined and has a brilliant mind.”
“没有他不能谈论的话题，”迈克尔斯说，“我想用‘有才智’这个词来形容他。但是他是那种把事情想得很透，然后从中提炼看法的人。他不可思议地自律，有聪颖的头脑。”
That may mean this version of “Late Night” will represent a tilt back toward the talk in talk show, Mr. Michaels acknowledged, but not at the expense of the comedy.
迈克尔斯承认，那就是说，他的《深夜秀》将会稍微倾向于谈话秀节目的谈话部分，但并不会以牺牲喜剧为代价。
Mr. Meyers said, “People will recognize that we’re doing a late-night show, because many of the conventions will be in place: desk, band, monologue.”
梅耶斯说，“人们会看出来我们做的是一个深夜节目，因为我们会保留很多传统：讲台、乐队和单口秀。”
The monologue should be one of Mr. Meyers’s strengths. He has honed a stand-up act in recent years, including a performance at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner in 2011 that Mr. Shoemaker said “in many ways set him up for this.” But he has also been, in his writing and anchoring chores on “SNL,” a pure practitioner in the art of the joke.
单口秀应该是梅耶斯的强项之一。近些年他的单口秀表演更加娴熟，包括2011年在白宫记者晚宴上的表演，休梅克说那次表演“从很多方面为他现在的节目做好了铺垫”。但是通过在《周六夜现场》的编剧和主播工作，他已经是玩笑艺术的纯正实践者了。
“If this job could be anything like ‘Update,’ where I got to tell jokes and facilitate other jokes, that would be really fun,” Mr. Meyers said. “In the monologue itself, I would love to tell 15 jokes a night.”
“如果这份工作能像‘周末新闻’那样让我讲笑话或捧哏，那将会非常有趣，”梅耶斯说，“在单口秀部分，我想一晚上讲15个笑话。”
What distinguishes Mr. Meyers from most previous late-night hosts (with one exception, Mr. O’Brien) is that he largely forged his early career as a writer. Though he had extensive improv training after college at Northwestern, and made it to “SNL” as a performer, Mr. Meyers said he quickly realized his path to survival on a show stocked with talent like Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler was as a writer.
梅耶斯和之前大多数深夜节目主持人（除了奥布莱恩）最大的不同是他早期的事业主要是做编剧。虽然他从西北大学毕业后接受了广泛的即兴表演训练，而且是以演员的身份进入《周六夜现场》的，但是梅耶斯说他很快意识到，在这个充满像威尔·费雷尔(Will Ferrell)和艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)这样的表演人才的节目里，他的生存之路就是做编剧。
“I would write sketches with the intention of pitching myself in them, and even I would know that if I really wanted the sketch to get on, I would be the fourth or fifth best choice. At that point, you can’t really complain to the rest of the writing staff that they’re not putting you in anything.”
“我可以写一些小品，故意把自己写进去，即使我知道如果我真的想让这个小品演得好，我会是第四个或第五个人选。那时候，你真的不能抱怨其他编剧没把你写进去。”
“Weekend Update” changed his career path. When Tina Fey left the show in 2006, he won the co-anchor job next to Ms. Poehler. “Amy is fearless,” he said. “I will never be as fearless as Amy, but I am more fearless for having known her.”
《周末新闻》改变了他的事业道路。2006年蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)离开该节目后，他获得了和波勒共同主播的机会。“艾米无所畏惧，”他说，“我永远不可能像艾米那样无畏，但是认识她让我更加无畏。“
“Update” also allowed Mr. Meyers to display another underappreciated comedy skill: the straight man. Paired with characters like Bill Hader’s Stefon, Mr. Meyers found himself enjoying the role of joke facilitator.
《周末新闻》还让梅耶斯展示了另一个未被充分赏识的喜剧才能：捧哏。和比尔·哈德尔(Bill Hader)扮演的史蒂芬(Stefon)这样的人物搭档让梅耶斯发现自己很喜欢捧哏。
His fans from “SNL” are surely going to expect a smarter show under Mr. Meyers, Mr. Shoemaker said. “There’s no way to define smarter,” he said. “It’s the subject matter. This show will book differently because of Seth’s interests. He wants politicians and authors and sports figures and comedians.”
休梅克说，梅耶斯在《周六夜现场》的粉丝们肯定期待他主持的新节目更聪明。“没办法定义什么是更聪明，”他说，“它是个题材问题。这个节目将会因为塞斯的兴趣而有所不同。他想邀请政治家、作家、运动明星和喜剧演员。”
That will play out in the first two nights. Monday’s guests include Ms. Poehler and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Tuesday’s will include the Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson and the author of a book on Mayor Rob Ford of Toronto.
这一点在前两晚就能看出来。周一的嘉宾包括波勒和副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)；周二的嘉宾将包括西雅图海鹰橄榄球队的四分卫拉塞尔·威尔森(Russell Wilson)以及一个写了一本关于多伦多市长罗伯·福特(Rob Ford)的书的作者。
For the first few weeks, “Late Night” will air five nights a week, then it will shift to four, skipping Fridays. That is in the show’s tradition, though Mr. Fallon filled all five nights. The last big decision, whether to have a band, was resolved when Mr. Michaels suggested Mr. Meyers’s old “SNL” cast mate Fred Armisen, who is also a skilled musician, as bandleader.
头几周，《深夜秀》将每周播放五晚，然后将改为四晚，周五不播。那是这个节目的传统，虽然法伦一直是播五晚。最后一个重要决定是要不要乐队，迈克尔斯建议由梅耶斯在《周六夜现场》的选角搭档弗雷德·阿米森(Fred Armisen)——他也是个有才能的音乐家——担任乐队指挥，这个问题就解决了。
What is now in place is a show that will share a building for the first time with “The Tonight Show,” though there are few other similarities, said Mr. Michaels, who is now in charge of both of them. “They will have distinct cultures. I will keep a wall between them — and between them and ‘SNL,’ ” he said.
现在这个节目将首次和《今夜秀》(The Tonight Show)在同一个大楼里制作，不过现在同时负责这两个节目的迈克尔斯说，它们没有其他类似之处。“它们将有截然不同的文化。我会把它们区分开，同时把它们和《周六夜现场》区分开。”
Mr. Meyers has had eight months to prepare for his debut as a late-night host, almost too long, he said. Even with all the preparation, he said that he expected his nerves to jangle Monday night.
梅耶斯为这个深夜节目的首秀准备了八个月，他说准备的时间几乎有点太长了。尽管准备了很久，他说他觉得周一晚上他的脑神经还是会错乱。
“But this is not a job where you have eight months to get ready,” Mr. Meyers said. “It’s a job where you have 23 hours to get ready for the next one.”
“但这份工作不是有八个月时间供你准备，”梅耶斯说，“你为下一次节目的准备时间只有23个小时。”