Question:
问：
I know sitting at a desk all day is really bad for me. Is sitting on an exercise ball any better?
我知道整天坐在办公桌前对身体不好。坐在健身球上会不会好点儿呢？
What if instead of sitting in an office chair, I perch with good posture on an exercise ball? Seems like sitting that way engages some of my muscles so perhaps isn’t quite so bad (I hope!).
假如我不坐办公椅，改成用良好的体态坐在健身球上会怎样？看起来这样做能让一些肌肉动起来，所以对身体更好（希望如此！）。
Answer:
答：
Unfortunately, the answer seems to be no.
很不幸，回答看来是“不会”。
“To be quite frank, I cannot see any advantage or reason for a person to be using an exercise ball as an office chair,” says Jack P. Callaghan, who holds the Canada Research Chair in Spine Biomechanics and Injury Prevention at the University of Waterloo in Ontario.
“老实说，我看不出来不坐办公椅，改成坐在健身球上，对健康会带来任何益处，”杰克·P·卡拉甘(Jack P. Callaghan)这样说。他是安大略省滑铁卢大学(University of Waterloo)的脊柱生物力学和伤害预防首席研究员。
Although you might expect that sitting on the ball would demand extra exertion to keep you upright and stable, when Dr. Callaghan and his colleagues had healthy young volunteers sit alternately on a ball, an office chair and a backless stool while machines measured muscle activity in their abdomens and lower backs, they found no meaningful differences in the seating options; sitting on a ball did not provide a mini-workout for the midsection.
也许你会认为，坐在健身球上保持身体挺直且稳定，需要动用额外的肌肉力量，不过卡拉甘博士和他的同事们所做的试验否认了这一点。他们曾召集了一群年轻健康的志愿者，让受试者轮流坐在健身球、办公椅和无靠背的凳子上，同时用仪器测量他们腹部和腰部的肌肉活动，结果发现座椅的选择并未带来有意义的分别；坐在健身球上并不会令你的腰腹部位进行丝毫锻炼。
Ball chairs do not improve posture, either. Research by Dr. Callaghan and others have shown that people generally slump just as much on a ball as in a normal chair and that back pain is not reduced. And, in part because sitting on a ball chair involves more contact area between the seating surface and your backside than a chair does — you sink into the ball somewhat — many new adopters of ball chairs report increased discomfort in their backsides.
健身球椅也不会改善你的体态。卡拉甘博士和其他人的研究显示，人们坐在球椅上时，跟坐在普通座椅上一样，通常身体会慢慢往下瘫，背痛也不会得以减缓。而且坐在球椅上时，球面和你臀部接触的面积比坐在椅子上时更大—你多多少少会陷进健身球里—很多刚刚开始拿健身球当座椅的人因此发现，他们臀部的不适感加剧了。
Not all news about ball chairs is bad, of course. In one study from 2008, clerical workers on balls burned marginally more calories — about 4 per hour — than those on chairs. But new research from Dr. Callaghan’s lab suggests that they may also have been putting themselves in almost comical peril. He found that when workers on ball chairs reach sideways for something, they risk toppling over. (A personal aside: My attempt to use a ball chair ended after my dog ferried a thorn into my home office and the thorn lodged beneath the ball. I still haven’t gotten the coffee stains off of the ceiling.)
当然，关于健身球也不都是坏消息。在2008年的一项研究中，坐在球椅上工作的白领比起坐在办公椅上的人，燃烧的热量略有增加—每小时约增加4大卡。不过卡拉甘实验室的新研究发现，坐在球椅上办公，可能会把自己置于近乎滑稽的险境中。他发现人们坐在球椅上时，往往会冒一头栽倒的危险伸手去够侧方的东西。（我的个人体会：我也曾尝试坐球椅，可是有一天，我的狗狗衔着一根荆棘进了书房，而这根荆棘又嵌到了球椅下面—我至今还没把书房天花板上的咖啡渍给清理干净。自此以后，我坐球椅的尝试正式宣告结束。）
If your concern is with sitting too much, a better solution is probably to stand up periodically throughout the workday, which has been found to improve health. Prop your keyboard on a shelf or filing cabinet and type upright. Or stand when you make phone calls.
假如你担心的是坐的时间太长，一个更好的解决方法或许是工作时偶尔站一站，研究发现这样对健康有益。你可以把键盘放在搁板或文件柜上，然后站着打字；也可以在打电话时站起身来。
But don’t overdo the standing, Dr. Callaghan says. Many people experience back pain if they stand for two hours or more at a workstation, he says. Aim, instead, for perhaps 15 minutes upright each hour.
不过，卡拉甘提醒说，不要站太久。很多人如果站立工作两小时或更长时间，会感到腰酸背痛。你不妨把目标定成每小时站15分钟左右。