A THREE-BEDROOM COTTAGE IN THE BAVARIAN ALPS
巴伐利亚阿尔卑斯山的一栋带三间卧室的乡村别墅
$3.9 MILLION (2.98 MILLION EUROS)
390万美元（约298万欧元，约合人民币2391万元）
In a residential area of Rottach-Egern, one of five villages in the valley around Lake Tegernsee, this three-bedroom country cottage on a 0.29-acre lot has views of the Wallberg, Setzberg and Hirschberg mountains of the Bavarian Alps. Built in 2008, it has an Alpine flavor, with a red tile roof with deep overhangs embellished with trim. Its stucco facade is topped by wood planking silver-toned to look old, punctuated with traditional Bavarian shutters.
在泰根塞湖(Lake Tegernsee)周边山谷中的五座村庄之一、罗塔赫-埃根(Rottach-Egern)的住宅区中，这栋带有三间卧室的乡村别墅，坐落在一块面积0.29英亩（约合1174平方米）的土地上，从这里可以看见巴伐利亚阿尔卑斯山的瓦尔贝格(Wallberg)、瑟兹贝格(Setsberg)、与希施贝格(Hirschberg)山脉的风景。这栋小屋建于2008年，铺着红色的屋瓦，宽阔的门檐上装饰着花边，具有一种阿尔卑斯的特色。屋外灰泥粉饰的立面包着一层银色调的木板，看上去带有一种古朴的感觉，上面还点缀着几扇传统的巴伐利亚百叶窗。
Entry to the fenced property is up a cobblestone driveway through a wooden gate bracketed by stone columns and across a slate path to a decorative front door. A door from the attached two-car garage also opens into the front hall. To the right is a powder room; an open wood and metal staircase stands to the left. The house has radiant heat with wood parquet floors throughout, except for the three bathrooms outfitted in ceramic tile.
顺着一条鹅卵石车道，穿过一座以两根石柱支撑的木门，便可以进入这处带篱笆的房产。再走过一条石板路就来到了一扇雕花大门前。一座附属的两车位车库也有一扇通往前厅的门。前厅右边是一间化妆室；左边有一座木材与金属材质的敞开式楼梯。这栋房屋采用了辐射式地暖，除了三间浴室里是贴着瓷砖，屋内地面全部铺着拼花地板。
A three-sided glass-enclosed fireplace wraps the corner of a wall that partly separates the living and dining rooms. Light-toned wood planking on the walls and built-ins add to the Alpine look. Six sets of French doors, including one from the kitchen, open onto a wraparound gray stone terrace leading to the garden.
一座三面用玻璃封起的壁炉，包住一处墙角，那面墙将客厅与餐厅部分隔开。墙壁上浅色的木板和嵌壁式家具让这栋房屋看起来更具阿尔卑斯风情。屋内有六扇法式双开门，包括厨房里的一扇，门外就是围绕在房屋周围的一处通往花园的灰石平台。
Off the entry hall, the kitchen has sleek wood cabinetry with dark granite countertops, stainless steel hardware and trim, a cooktop and two wall ovens.
厨房在门厅旁边，内有带黑色花岗岩台面的光滑细木家具、不锈钢的五金制品与家具包边，还有一台炉灶与两座壁式烤炉。
Upstairs, the master bedroom is spacious and opens onto a south-facing balcony. Its large en-suite bath includes a dressing room, twin white ceramic vanities, a bathtub and separate shower. Each of the two other large, sunny bedrooms has a bathroom with a shower across the hall. Though the home has gas heat, hot water is generated by solar power, said Christian Diepold, managing partner of Engel & Völkers Tegernsee, the listing broker. A big recreation room, laundry room and two additional basement rooms are in the full cellar.
楼上的主卧空间宽敞，并带有一座朝南的阳台。主卧的套间浴室内有一间更衣室、两只白色陶瓷盥洗池，一座浴缸和一间单独的淋浴房。另外两间阳光充足的大卧室，每一间都带有卫生间，并在走廊对面有一间淋浴房。虽然这栋房屋采用的是燃气取暖，但产生热水的能源是太阳能，该房源的经纪人、Engel & Völkers Tegernsee公司的执行合伙人克里斯蒂安·迪波尔德(Christian Diepold)说。这栋房屋的地下室里还有一间大娱乐室、一间洗衣房和另外两个房间。
The house is about a 10-minute walk to the lake and a five-minute walk to the village center.
该房屋距离湖边约有10分钟的步行路程，而距离这座村庄的中心区约有5分钟的步行路程。
An hour south of Munich, the Tegernsee Valley is a popular vacation area year round, with downhill or cross-country skiing, sleigh riding and tobogganing in winter and swimming, sailing and paddleboating in summer. Mountain inns, luxury hotels, beer gardens, restaurants, festivals, shopping and spas abound. It is also close to the neighboring countries of Austria, Italy and Switzerland.
泰根塞山谷位于慕尼黑南边，路程一小时。这里一年四季都是热门度假区，冬天可以速降滑雪或越野滑雪，也可以乘坐雪橇车和滑平地雪橇；夏天可以游泳、航行和划船。这里还有许多山村旅馆、奢华酒店、露天啤酒馆、餐厅、庆典活动、购物中心和spa场馆，而且距离邻国奥地利、意大利与瑞士也很近。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Tegernsee is a “very expensive and selective region,” said Tobias Just, a professor in the International Real Estate Business School at the University of Regensburg, one of the “top locations” for Germans to retire or have a second home. The area also attracts commuters to Munich, including many who work on a “relaxed schedule,” he said.
泰根塞是一个“很挑剔的高消费区”，雷根斯堡大学(University of Regensburg)国际房地产商业学院的一位教授托拜厄斯·贾斯特(Tobias Just)说，这里是德国人退休或安置第二居所的“首选地”之一，还吸引着许多往来慕尼黑的通勤者，其中包括很多工作“不那么繁忙的人，”他说。
Demand is high and exceeds supply, with no new plots available to build homes in the valley between the mountains and the lake. Also bolstering prices are “a lot of people who want to buy a house here and want to live here, but we have not as many sellers to fill the need,” Mr. Diepold said. “We always have a rising market price.” Prices start at around 800,000 euros, or around $1.06 million, and range up to 10 million euros, or $13.2 million, or more.
目前，当地房产市场的需求非常旺盛，已经超过了供给，而且还没有推出关于在该山谷的山地与湖泊间修建房屋的新计划。另一个促使房价不断上涨的因素是，“有许多人都想住在这里，并在这儿买房，但我们没有这么多卖家来满足这些需求，”迪波尔德说，“我们的市场价格总在不断攀升。”房价从大约80万欧元（约合人民币634万元）起，或106万美元左右，范围上限可以到1000万欧元（约合人民币7950万元）或1320万美元，或者更高。
During the economic downturn, he added, many who were uncertain about where to invest their money opted to buy second or third homes in Tegernsee. Homes in quiet locations with lake views command the highest prices.
在经济下滑期间，他补充道，许多人不太确定应该把资金投向何方，便会在泰根塞购置第二套或第三套房产。那些位于安静的地点、可以看到湖景的房屋通常要价最高。
WHO BUYS IN THE TEGERNSEE VALLEY
谁在泰根塞山谷买房？
Most buyers are from Germany, some who live in the region year round and others who frequent it as a weekend, holiday or seasonal home. Most foreign buyers are second homeowners. The area is also popular with buyers within commuting distance from Switzerland, for whom the home prices are relatively less expensive, as well as buyers from England, Russia and the Middle East, plus a few from the United States.
许多买家来自德国，有些人整年都住在这里，而另一些人常常在这里过周末、度假，或是季节性地住一住。大多数外国买家都是二套房的业主。这片区域还受到许多在通勤范围内的瑞士买家欢迎，对他们来说这里的房价相对不是太贵。另外还有来自英国、俄国和中东的买家，再就是少数来自美国的买家。
BUYING BASICS
购房基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers, Gerrit Brachvogel, a deputy notary in Tegernsee, said in an email.
这里对外国买家没有限制，泰根塞的一名代理公证人格利特·布拉赫福格尔(Gerrit Brachvogel)在一封电子邮件中说。
All real estate sales and transfers must be handled by a notary.
所有涉及到房地产销售与过户的交易，都必须由一名公证人经手。
Most second-home buyers in this pricey region pay cash, though the mortgage rate is “the lowest we ever had,” Mr. Diepold said, hovering at 1.5 to 2 percent. “It is a very exclusive and expensive area,” he said.
在这个房价高昂的地方，多数购置第二套房产的买家都是支付现金，尽管目前的按揭利率“已处于历史最低水平”，迪波尔德说，这项利率徘徊在1.5%至2%之间。“这是个不仅高档、而且消费水平也很高的区域。”他说。
For those in good financial standing, “it is not difficult” to get a mortgage, Dr. Brachvogel said.
对于那些财务状况良好的人而言，获取按揭贷款“没什么困难”，布拉赫福格尔说。
Once a buyer’s financial status is ascertained, it takes three to four weeks to close a deal, Mr. Diepold said. Some sellers insist on a down payment of 50,000 to 100,000 euros, or around $66,000 to $132,000, but it is not always required, he added.
买家的财务状况一经查明，再花三至四周时间就可以完成交易，迪波尔德说。一些卖家坚持要5万欧元（约合人民币39.8万元）至10万欧元（约合人民币79.5万元）的预付定金，约合6.6万美元至13.2万美元。不过，也并不总是这样的，他补充道。