WASHINGTON — Snorkeling in the crystal-blue Pacific waters off Midway Island. Check. Strolling through the enigmatic columns of Stonehenge. Check. Visiting the Bob Marley Museum in Jamaica, the pyramids in Egypt and the Great Wall of China. Check, check and check.
华盛顿——在中途岛清澈碧蓝的太平洋里浮潜。完成。在神秘的巨石阵漫步。完成。参观牙买加的鲍勃·马利博物馆(Bob Marley Museum)、埃及的金字塔和中国的长城。完成，完成，完成。
It turns out that traveling the globe on Air Force One can do wonders for your tourism bucket list.
原来，乘坐空军一号(Air Force One)周游世界还能助你奇迹般地完成旅游愿望清单。
President Obama has spent most of his travel time the past eight years on official duties: countless fund-raisers, state visits to foreign capitals, pep rallies with American troops, policy announcements and never-ending summit meetings in hotel ballrooms the world over.
在过去八年里，奥巴马总统把他的大部分旅行时间都用在公务上：数不清的募捐活动、前往外国首都的国事访问、美国军队的誓师大会、政策宣布会以及在世界各地的酒店宴会厅举行的没完没了的峰会。
But maybe more than any of his predecessors, Mr. Obama has also seized the opportunity to become the ultimate tourist, methodically setting aside time to marvel at the world’s most spectacular sights, seemingly soaking up every experience. (Want proof? Watch the episode of “Running Wild With Bear Grylls” in which the president joins the host in eating some salmon already munched on by a bear.)
不过，奥巴马也许比他的任何一位前任更会抓住机会成为终极旅行者，有条不紊地留出时间，叹赏世界上那些最为壮观的景色，似乎每次都乐在其中（想要证明？看看《名人荒野求生》[Running Wild With Bear Grylls]总统和主持人一起享用被熊咬过的三文鱼那一集）。
“It’s a Jeffersonian impulse. He’s intellectually curious,” said Jon Meacham, a presidential historian, who compared Mr. Obama’s penchant for sightseeing to Thomas Jefferson’s travels through France from 1784 to 1789, though that was before Jefferson became president.
“那是杰斐逊式的冲动。他充满智性的好奇，”总统史学家乔恩·米查姆(Jon Meacham)说道。他把奥巴马对观光的偏好与托马斯·杰斐逊(Thomas Jefferson)1784年至1789年游历法国的经历相提并论，虽然那是杰斐逊在成为总统之前。
“He’s trying to do something that’s incredibly difficult,” Mr. Meacham said of Mr. Obama. “He’s trying to replenish his intellectual capital in a job that really just demands expenditure of that resource.”
“他在努力做一些非常困难的事，”米查姆谈起奥巴马时说道。“他努力给自己的智力资本充值，而他所从事的恰好是一个对这项资源的消耗有要求的工作。”
Not all presidents are eager tourists. President George W. Bush was impatient when it came to seeing the sights. In 2002, Mr. Bush spent only 30 minutes at the Great Wall of China. It took him the same amount of time to visit the National Archives of Canada, where he gazed at portraits of Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt. One White House aide told a reporter in 2004 that Mr. Bush liked a clean, tight schedule.
不是所有的总统都热衷于旅行。乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)在观光方面没有耐心。2002年，布什在中国的长城上只待了30分钟。他参观加拿大国家档案馆(National Archives of Canada)也只花了30分钟，他在那里凝视着温斯顿· 丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)和富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)的肖像。2004年，一位白宫助手对一名记者说，布什喜欢简洁、紧凑的行程。
President Bill Clinton was by all accounts more willing to squeeze in tourist stops, even if it meant late-night visits before early-morning departures. On a visit to Madrid, Mr. Clinton toured the Prado, Spain’s national art museum, at 11 p.m.
根据各种流传的说法，比尔·克林顿总统(Bill Clinton)更愿意挤时间去旅游景点，哪怕第二天一大早就要离开，导致参观不得不安排在深夜进行。有一次在马德里访问，克林顿在晚上11点参观了西班牙的国家美术馆——普拉多博物馆(Prado)。
President George Bush was well traveled while in office but less of a tourist than Mr. Obama, said Mr. Meacham, who recently finished a biography of the senior Mr. Bush. If he had some free time, “he was going to set up a game of wallyball at Camp David,” Mr. Meacham said. “He would order up spur-of-the-moment horseshoe tournaments.”
米查姆说，乔治·布什(George Bush)任总统期间经常旅行，但不像奥巴马那么热爱旅游。米查姆前不久完成了老布什的传记。米查姆说，如果老布什有空闲时间，“他会在戴维营(Camp David)组织大家打壁排球”，“或者一时兴起组织掷蹄铁套柱比赛”。
Aides of Mr. Obama’s say he has been relentless in urging them to schedule stops in places that give him a chance to do some sightseeing. In Rome to meet the new pope in 2014, Mr. Obama also took a private guided tour through the Colosseum. After four days of Mideast peace negotiations in 2013, the president played tourist at Petra in Jordan, viewing the 2,000-year-old ruins carved into sandstone cliffs.
奥巴马的助手们称，他总是敦促他们安排一些能让他有机会观光的地点停留。2014年在罗马会见新任教皇期间，奥巴马在私人导游的陪同下参观了斗兽场(Colosseum)。2013年，在中东进行四天和平谈判后，他去约旦佩特拉(Petra)参观了砂岩峭壁里凿刻的有着2000年历史的遗迹。
And in 2014, at the end of a three-day trip to Estonia and a NATO summit meeting in Wales, Mr. Obama hopped in a motorcade for a short drive to the monoliths at Stonehenge, where he had a leisurely walk. He declared the site “spectacular” and “a special place” before telling reporters, “Knocked it off the bucket list!”
2014年，在对爱沙尼亚进行了为期三天的访问，并在威尔士参加了一次北约峰会后，奥巴马跳上车队，行驶了一段不长的时间后，来到巨石阵(Stonehenge)，在那里悠闲漫步。他说那里很“壮观”，是个“特别的地方”，还对记者们说，“旅游清单上又划掉了一项！”
Mr. Obama’s travels — along with his frequent golf outings and summertime visits to Martha’s Vineyard — have generated some criticism, especially from Republicans who question the value of the trips and the cost to taxpayers.
奥巴马的旅行——以及他经常外出打高尔夫，夏季去玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha’s Vineyard)度假——引来了一些批评，尤其是来自共和党人的批评，他们质疑这些旅行的价值以及给纳税人造成的负担。
Judicial Watch, a conservative watchdog group, has used Freedom of Information requests and lawsuits to try to get information about the cost of the president’s travel. The group claims that Mr. Obama’s travel, official and personal, has cost taxpayers about $80 million.
保守的监察团体——司法观察(Judicial Watch)利用《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information)的要求和一些诉讼，努力获取与奥巴马总统旅行费用相关的信息。该组织称，奥巴马的官方和私人旅行共花费纳税人约8000万美元。
Of course, the exact cost of the president’s sightseeing is unknowable because it is mixed in with the overall efforts required to protect and support the American leader no matter where on the globe he finds himself. The infrastructure of the modern presidency always accompanies the Oval Office occupant, whether he or she is on official duties or vacation.
当然，总统观光的准确费用不得而知，因为这与保护、支持美国领导人的整体努力是分不开的——不管他在世界的任何地方。现代总统职位的基础架构总是与椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)的主人如影随形，不管他或她是在执行公务还是度假。
The president’s aides point out that previous presidents have always traveled with the same security and administrative needs. And they insist that most of Mr. Obama’s personal tourism serves important diplomatic purposes. Eating in a noodle shop in Vietnam with Anthony Bourdain for his CNN program, they say, helped deliver the president’s hope for a deeper relationship between the people of the two nations. And the Obamas’ dinner date in a restaurant in Cuba helped cement the image of a new kind of relationship between Washington and Havana, two longtime adversaries.
奥巴马的助手们指出，之前的总统们出行时也总是配备相同的安全和行政支持。他们坚称，奥巴马的大部分个人旅行都肩负重要的外交目的。他们表示，他在越南一家面馆与CNN美食节目主持人安东尼·波登(Anthony Bourdain)一起吃面条，有助于传达总统希望加深两国人民关系的愿望。奥巴马夫妇在古巴一家餐厅的晚餐约会，有助于巩固美国和古巴这两个老对手之间的新关系。
“These moments allow the president to highlight issues he cares about by experiencing them firsthand,” said Liz Allen, the deputy White House communications director. “Seeing a melting glacier in Alaska or walking the trails of our national parks really drives home the impact of climate change and importance of conserving our lands and waters.”
“这些时刻使得总统能够通过亲身体验来强调他所关心的问题，”白宫的传讯副主管莉兹·艾伦(Liz Allen)说，“去看阿拉斯加融化的冰川或在我们国家公园的小径上漫步真的能让人充分理解气候变化所带来的冲击，以及保护我们的土地和水资源的重要性。”
“And when traveling overseas,” she added, “getting off the beaten path to visit a cultural landmark further deepens ties in that country.”
“在国外旅行时，”她补充说，“打破常规去参观文化地标能进一步加深与那个国家的联系。”
The demands of the presidency sometimes get in the way of Mr. Obama’s sightseeing. The president skipped a planned stop at the Taj Mahal after the death of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in early 2015 forced him to cut short a visit to India. Despite taking several trips to Southeast Asia, Mr. Obama has never been able to persuade his handlers to get him to Angkor Wat, a complex of magnificent temples in Cambodia.
总统职务的要求有时会妨碍奥巴马的观光。2015年初，沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(Abdullah)逝世后，奥巴马不得不缩短在印度的行程，取消参观泰姬陵(Taj Mahal)的计划。尽管奥巴马数次访问东南亚，但他从未能够说服手下安排他去参观柬埔寨的宏伟寺庙建筑群吴哥窟(Angkor Wat)。
“The president was quite disappointed to not have an opportunity to visit the Taj Mahal on his last visit to India,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said after the schedule change in India. “I wish I could promise — I think the president wishes I could promise — that he would have an opportunity to visit the Taj Mahal before the end of his presidency, but I’m not sure that will happen.”
“总统在上次访问印度时没有机会参观泰姬陵，为此感到非常失望，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在印度的行程改变后称。“我希望自己能够许下承诺——我觉得总统也希望我能承诺——他在卸任前还有机会参观泰姬陵，但我可不敢打包票。”
And one of the biggest boxes on his tourism list is likely to remain unchecked during the remainder of his presidency: zipping across the frozen tundra of Antarctica, on a snowmobile that might be called Snow Force One. Top aides say he has been wanting to visit for years, but no trip there is on the schedule.
在奥巴马剩下的任期内，其旅游愿望清单上最重要的一项很可能难以实现了：乘坐雪地机动车——它也许可以被称为雪地一号——在南极洲的冻原上飞驰。他的高级助手们称，这是他的夙愿，但行程上没有这样的安排。
Still, there is no question that the presidency has given Mr. Obama extraordinary access to people, places and experiences that most others do not have.
不过，毫无疑问，总统职位赋予奥巴马特别的机会，可以接触很多人，前往很多地方，获得很多体验，这是绝大部分其他人所无法拥有的。
“Jefferson had this incredible sense of curiosity. He wanted to be a kind of conveyor belt of culture,” Mr. Meacham said. “He saw tourism as, I suspect, the way the president does: widening the aperture of experience and learning as much as possible.”
“杰斐逊拥有不可思议的好奇心。他想让自己变成一种文化的传送带，”米查姆说。“我觉得，他对旅游的看法与奥巴马总统一样：扩大体验范围，尽可能多地学习。”