The day I was supposed to fly from London to Newark this spring, British Airways sent an e-mail saying the flight had been canceled. When I called to rebook, the agent offered a flight two hours earlier, which meant my boyfriend and I had to drop everything and race to Heathrow. The payoff came a month later, when the airline sent a check for $787 (300 euros each), compensation for our inconvenience.
今年春季的一天，我原打算从伦敦飞往纽约纽瓦克机场，但英国航空公司(British Airways)给我发邮件说航班取消了。我致电去改期的时候，对方提供了一个比之前航班早两小时的航班。这意味着我和男朋友不得不立刻放下手头所有事务直奔希斯罗机场。一个月以后我们得到了回报：航空公司寄来一张787美元的支票（每人300欧元），作为对给我们带来不便的补偿。
Travelers on flights that are canceled or delayed must often accept whatever rebooking an airline offers, even if it means getting stranded at an airport for days. In the United States airlines aren’t required to compensate passengers on delayed or canceled flights, but it’s a different story in Europe. The payment that my boyfriend and I received was required by the European Union’s passenger rights law, EC 261, which obligates airlines to pay for a hotel room and meals if travelers are stranded because of a cancellation or delay.
旅行者遇到航班取消或延误的时候，无论航空公司安排的改期航班多么不合理，哪怕你需要困守机场好几天，大部分人也会接受。在美国，航空公司一般不会因航班延误或取消而对乘客进行补偿，但在欧洲可不是这样。我和男朋友之所以能够得到补偿，是因为这是欧盟乘客权益法EC 261的规定。这个法令规定，如果乘客因航班取消或延误而被困，航空公司必须为乘客支住宿或就餐的费用。
If the problem is the airline’s fault — for instance, our cancellation was due to a malfunctioning plane — the carrier is supposed to compensate passengers up to 600 euros, based on the length of the flight and how long you’re delayed. I was surprised that we qualified since we actually got an earlier flight, but the law covers situations when passengers have little advance notice and have to change their plans.
如果航班不准时是航空公司的责任（比如，我们航班被取消的原因是飞机故障），航空公司需要向乘客支付最多600欧元的补偿，具体数额由航行距离和被延误的时长决定。我发现自己符合获得赔偿的资格时颇为惊讶，因为我们其实是提前坐上了飞机，但那个法令的确规定了乘客因紧急通知改期而被迫改变旅行计划的情况。
EC 261 applies to any airline departing from the European Union — including American carriers — and European airlines flying to or from Europe. It was adopted in 2005; since then, similar rules have been extended to passengers traveling within Europe by rail, ship or bus.
EC 261法令适用于所有从欧盟出发的航班（包括美国的航空公司）和进出欧洲的欧洲航空公司。这个法令从2005年开始生效。从那以后，类似的法规也开始覆盖乘坐火车、轮船或公共汽车在欧洲旅行的乘客。
In theory, the law gives travelers greater protection in Europe than in the United States. In practice, airlines on both sides of the Atlantic have resisted paying some of these benefits, and many passengers do not even know these rights exist. The e-mails British Airways sent me didn’t mention compensation, and neither did the agent I spoke with. I knew about the law so I found the information on the airline’s Web site (britishairways.com/travel/euclaimnor/public/en_gb). But the claims process was easy, and British Airways paid quickly.
理论上，这个法令给了乘客比美国更多的保护。但实际上，大西洋两岸的航空公司都试图拒绝支付部分费用，许多乘客甚至不知道自己有这个权益。英国航空给我的邮件中没有提到补偿，帮我订票的机票代理也没说这个法令。我自己听说过这个法令，所以在这家航空公司的网站上找到了信息（britishairways.com/travel/euclaimnor/public/en_gb）。但申请流程非常简单，英国航空支付补偿款的速度也很快。
“You’re lucky you got your money,” said Dale Kidd, a spokesman for the European Commission. “Generally, it depends on the airline, but some are better than others at paying claims.”
“你运气好，拿到了属于你的钱。” 欧盟委员会的发言人戴尔·基德(Dale Kidd)说，“一般来说，这取决于航空公司的态度，但一些公司确实比其他公司付款要干脆一些。”
So which airlines are the scofflaws? “I’d prefer not to do naming and shaming,” Mr. Kidd said. “It depends a lot on the persistence of the victim making the claim.”
“那么哪些公司比较藐视法律呢？”“我不会直接点名批评。”基德先生说，“很大程度上，这取决于受害人在索赔时的百折不挠。”
One reason airlines have resisted this regulation is disagreement over who should be responsible for stranded travelers when major disruptions occur — like the volcanic ash cloud that caused more than 100,000 flight cancellations in Europe in 2010.
航空公司之所以抗拒这个法令，原因之一是，当重大事故（比如2010年火山灰导致欧洲10万起航班取消事故）发生时就谁该对乘客被困机场问题负责有不同意见。
“The ash cloud went on for eight or nine days, so it’s probably unreasonable to expect a carrier to put you up at the Hilton for that length of time,” Mr. Kidd conceded. Indeed, the airline industry says carriers lost nearly $2 billion because of the cloud, including expenses for hotel bills, although some airlines refused to pay these claims.
“火山灰笼罩天空，一直持续八九天。所以，指望航空公司付钱让你入住希尔顿酒店这么多天，也不太合理。”基德先生承认。的确如此，航空业声称，自己行业因这次火山灰遭受了20亿美元的损失，包括安排乘客入住酒店费用，尽管有些航空公司拒绝为这种索赔付钱。
Recognizing that issue, the European Union has proposed changing the law to limit airlines’ liability to three days of lodging and meals in situations involving “extraordinary circumstances” beyond their control. The proposal would also strengthen oversight and enforcement of the claims process.
意识到这个问题以后，欧盟提议对这个法令进行修改，在遭遇航空公司无法控制的“异常事件”时将他们的赔偿责任限制到三天的住宿和餐饮之内。提议还包括强化索赔流程的监管和执行。
It may take a while before the proposal is adopted, and some provisions might be amended during the approval process. For now, the European Commission is working to educate travelers about their rights through public education campaigns and a free app that outlines the rules (available at ec.europa.eu/transport/passenger-rights/en/mobile.html).
这个提议被通过之前，可能还需要一段时间，而且审批过程中部分细则可能也会修订。但目前，欧盟委员会正致力于通过公共教育活动和免费App的方式，向旅行者科普他们的权益。App中包括那个法令的概要，下载地址是：ec.europa.eu/transport/passenger-rights/en/mobile.html。
There are also lawsuits working their way through the courts that may clarify how passengers can collect compensation under EC 261 from resistant airlines, including at least half a dozen cases in the United States.
此外，还有许多等待法庭处理的案件，其判决结果可能帮助乘客理解如何根据EC 261向拒绝赔付的航空公司索要赔偿金。这些案件至少有一半是在美国发生。
Hank Bates, a partner with the law firm Carney Bates & Pulliam, is representing plaintiffs suing in federal court in Chicago to collect compensation under EC 261 from multiple airlines. He says many travelers who are due compensation don’t actually collect it. “A lot of people don’t even know these rights exist,” he said. “Even when they do, particularly Americans, I think they think, ‘This isn’t worth my time.’ ”
尼贝茨和普利亚姆律师事务所(Carney Bates & Pulliam)的合伙人汉克·贝茨(Hank Bates)代表众多乘客向芝加哥的联邦法院递交了诉状，依据EC 261向多家航空公司索赔。他说，许多有资格获得赔偿的旅行者并没有拿到赔偿。“许多人甚至不知道他们还有这种权利。”他说，“即使他们知道，我觉得他们也会想，‘不值得让我付出那么多时间’，尤其是对美国人而言。”
While passenger rights protections are more robust in Europe than in the United States, there are instances when travelers can collect refunds or compensation in the United States, but it takes some effort.
虽然欧洲的乘客权益保护比美国要发达，但我们也可能看到一些乘客在美国收到了退款或赔偿。当然，这需要付出不少努力。
For instance in July, I paid $100 to change two tickets for a Delta flight from Detroit to LaGuardia. That flight was subsequently canceled when La Guardia temporarily closed because a Southwest plane’s landing gear collapsed; Delta waived change fees for LaGuardia passengers that day. I wasn’t offered a refund of the $100, but when I called and asked for it, Delta agreed. The lesson: sometimes it pays to ask.
比如，今年7月，我花了100美元，将达美航空从底特律到拉瓜迪亚机场的两张机票做了改签。后来，因西南航空一架飞机的起落架损坏，拉瓜迪亚机场临时关闭，我们那个航班就取消了。达美航空就给拉瓜迪亚机场的乘客免除了改签费。我并没有收到100美元的退款，但当我致电要求退款时，达美航空表示同意。经验：有时候，你主动要求就会获得回报。
Delta also offers customers a $25 travel voucher, if you pay for a checked bag and don’t receive it within 12 hours of reporting that your bag didn’t arrive on your flight. (To collect the rebate, there’s a form on Delta’s Web site: delta.com/contactus/pages/baggage_rebate/index.jsp.)
如果你支付了行李托运费但飞机到达之后12个小时还没有拿到行李的话，达美航空会给你25美元的代金券（领取这个代金券，需要在达美官网上填写表格： delta.com/contactus/pages/baggage_rebate/index.jsp）。
Alaska Airlines gives passengers a $20 credit or 2,000 frequent flier miles if their checked luggage is not at baggage claim within 20 minutes after their flight arrives at the gate. That will increase to $25 or 2,500 award miles when the airline raises its checked baggage fee to $25 on Oct. 30. (Details are at alaskaair.com/content/travel-info/policies/baggage-service-guarantee.aspx)
如果到达20分钟以后，你的行李还没有出现在传送带上，阿拉斯加航空(Alaska Airlines)会给乘客20美元的补偿，或给常旅客2000英里的积分。10月30日，该公司的行李托运费将会涨到25美元，航空公司相应的迟到赔偿也会提高到25美元或2500英里积分（达美航空的表格地址：alaskaair.com/content/travel-info/policies/baggage-service-guarantee.aspx）。
With respect to cancellations or delays, JetBlue offers passengers compensation for “controllable irregularities” like a mechanical problem or a crew delay that wasn’t due to weather or an airport closure, said Tamara Young, a JetBlue spokeswoman. For delays of 90 minutes to two hours, the airline gives passengers a $25 credit toward a future flight; that amount increases up to the cost of a round-trip ticket if the delay exceeds six hours. (Search jetblue.com for “compensation.”)
捷蓝航空(JetBlue)的发言人塔玛拉·扬(Tamara Young)说，捷蓝会因“可控制的不规范行为”带来的航班取消或延误而向乘客支付赔偿金（赔偿细则请到jetblue.com搜索“compensation”），这些不规范行为包括机械故障、非因天气或机场关闭造成的工作人员操作迟滞。如果航班延误90分钟至2小时，航空公司会允许乘客将来订票时减免25美元。如果航班延误超过6小时，你得到的赔偿积累起来会足够支付一张往返机票。 
But for the most part, passenger rights regulations in the United States don’t offer many protections to those stranded because of cancellations or delays.
但大多数情况下，美国的乘客权益保护法并不能为那些因航班取消或延误而被困机场的乘客提供太多保护。
The Department of Transportation expects to soon release a proposal for its third round of passenger protections, which mostly address how code-share partners and fees are disclosed when travelers book a flight. The first set of rules, adopted in 2010, set limits that dramatically reduced long tarmac delays, and a second round of regulations required carriers to display and advertise the total cost of a ticket, including any mandatory fees.
美国交通运输部(Department of Transportation)希望尽快通过保护乘客权益的第三轮提议，主要内容是乘客订票时如何获知共享代码航空公司和费用规定。2010年通过的第一批法规对起飞时间延误做了限制，从那以后各公司起飞延误的时间明显减少。第二批法规要求航空公司将机票价格的全额在广告中明确公示，包括各种强制费用。
But according to Bill Mosley, a D.O.T. spokesman, the department is not considering a rule that would stipulate how airlines must accommodate passengers on delayed or canceled flights — although it does require carriers to outline how they handle these situations in their customer service plans. Those plans aren’t as generous as the benefits offered under EC 261, so don’t expect to get put up in a hotel if you get stranded at an American airport during a domestic trip. And if you’re flying to Europe, EC 261 may be a good reason to consider choosing a carrier that covers you in both directions across the Atlantic.
但根据交通运输部发言人比尔·莫斯利(Bill Mosley)的说法，交通部近期不会考虑推出法规，来规定航空公司必须对因航班延误或取消而被困机场的乘客进行食宿补偿，但法规确实规定了航空公司在客服计划中列出如何处理此类情况。这些计划不像EC 261的规定那么慷慨，所以不要指望你乘坐美国国内航班并被困机场时免费入住酒店。如果你飞往欧洲，EC 261也许是你选择乘坐愿意支付补偿金的航空公司来飞越大西洋的理由。