“Here are the nuts,” said Drew Sayer, a graduate student in nutrition science, before shoving me into the M.R.I. machine, flat on my back. “Chew them. Swallow them. And don’t move your head.”
“这里有些坚果，”一位叫德鲁·塞耶(Drew Sayer)的营养学研究生说着，然后把平躺仰卧着的我推进了核磁共振仪，“咀嚼，然后咽下。头不要动。”
I moved my head, which blurred the resulting images. But if all goes well in the coming weeks, researchers here at Purdue University will have stacks of brain scans with crystal-clear views inside the minds of their test subjects — while they were eating nuts. These images could help answer a timely question: Do nuts really merit the hype they’ve been getting as a guilt-free indulgence?
我的头动了，结果扫出来的影像模糊了。但如果接下来的几周一切进展良好的话，在普度大学(Purdue University)的这些研究者们就会收集出一叠一叠的脑部扫描底片，清晰地观察到研究对象脑子里的映像——在他们吃坚果时的脑部映像。这些影像或许能够帮助回答一个很合时宜的问题：坚果真的像人们大肆宣传的那样，可以丝毫不带罪恶感的狂吃吗？
The reports about their many benefits have come thick and fast: studies finding that people who eat nuts (tree nuts like cashews, almonds and pistachios, along with their legume pal, the peanut) live longer and healthier lives, with less risk of chronic ailments like heart disease, respiratory problems and Type 2 diabetes.
关于坚果的好处，各种报告已经铺天盖地：一些研究发现，吃坚果（指各种木本果仁，比如腰果、杏仁、开心果，还有它们的豆科远亲——花生等等）的人更长寿也更健康，患心脏病、呼吸道疾病和二型糖尿病的风险也更低。
But perhaps the most startling news is that nuts may help in maintaining a healthy weight. Research has found that people can snack on modest amounts of them without gaining pounds, and that nuts can even help in slimming down.
但最为令人震惊的消息可能是，坚果或许能够有助于维持健康的体重。研究发现，人们可以吃适量坚果而不增长体重，而且，坚果甚至能够帮助人们瘦下来。
This dieting power is particularly hard to fathom when you consider that nuts pack 160 to 200 calories in each tiny ounce, not even a handful. And most of those calories come from fat. Ounce for ounce, cashews and pecans and walnuts are loaded with more calories than many of the processed foods being blamed for the surge in obesity. In the conventional wisdom, a dieter’s best friends are watery foods like celery and carrot sticks.
这种减肥作用特别难以理解，试想想，每一盎司的坚果，还不到手抓的一把，却含有160至200卡路里。而那些卡路里大部分来自脂肪。按每一盎司算的话，腰果、山核桃和核桃所含的卡路里比很多被认为是肥胖催化剂的加工食品都要多。传统观点认为，节食者的最佳伙伴是像芹菜和胡萝卜棒这样的高水分食物。
One of the country’s leading nutrition scientists, Richard Mattes of Purdue, has been exploring this seeming paradox and has some intriguing, if still uncertain, findings.
全国顶尖的营养学家之一、普度大学的里查德·马特斯(Richard Mattes)一直在探索这个看似矛盾的现象，并且有了一些尽管不确定但却有趣的发现。
His current work on nuts is being funded by a marketing group, the Almond Board of California, which would normally raise concerns about bias. But Dr. Mattes has a record of biting the hands that feed science, and challenging presumptions about nutrition.
他目前对于坚果的研究是由一个市场营销机构——美国加州杏仁商会(Almond Board of California)资助的。这自然会引起一些担忧，认为会存在倾向性。但是马特斯博士有过对科研资助者“恩将仇报”的往绩，也曾经质疑过一些关于营养学的假设。
At a Philadelphia research center that gets some of its operating money from processed-food companies, he published a paper in 1991 showing that that industry, not the salt shakers on dinner tables, was largely responsible for the country’s vast consumption of sodium. He also helped establish that people are less able to detect calories in soda and other drinks than in solid foods, and so are less apt to put the brakes on overconsumption.
费城有一家研究中心的部分资金就来自加工食品企业。就是在那里，马特斯曾于1991年发表论文指出，造成全国大量消耗钠元素的原因，大部分在于加工食品产业，而不是餐桌上的盐瓶。他还帮助证实，比起固体食品，人们在碳酸饮料和其他饮品中识别出卡路里的能力要更低，于是也更难抑制过度摄取的倾向。
Nuts have several big things going for them, Dr. Mattes said. For starters, even a small amount can make you feel full. Scientists call this feeling satiety; it is a busy field in food research and marketing these days, given the way that snacking has become a sort of fourth meal, adding an estimated 580 calories to the average person’s daily consumption.
马特斯博士说，坚果有好几个较大的好处。首先，只需少量的坚果即能让你感觉吃饱了。科学家们把这种感觉称为饱腹感；它是当前食品研究和营销的热点领域，因为零食在某程度上已经成为了所谓的“第四餐”，在一般人每日的摄取量中增加了大约580卡路里。
Why do nuts appease the appetite so well? Dr. Mattes pointed to several studies.
为什么坚果能够如此好地满足胃口呢？马特斯博士指出了好几项研究作为证据。
“They’re high in protein, and protein is satiating,” he said. “They’re high in fiber, and fiber is satiating. They’re rich in unsaturated fats, and there is some literature that suggests that has satiety value. They’re crunchy, and that would suggest just the mechanical aspect of chewing generates a satiety signal.”
“它们的蛋白质含量很高，而蛋白质是很让人觉得饱的，”他说，“它们的纤维含量也很高，而纤维也是能带来饱腹感的。它们富含不饱和脂肪酸，而一些文献指出，这种成分也能增加饱腹感。它们吃起来嘎嘎脆，这又会发出暗示，因为咀嚼的生理动作本身也会生发出饱腹的信号。”
Snacking on nuts makes it likely that you will eat less later in the same day, according to some research. That decrease in consumption can make up for many of the nuts’ calories — as much as three-fourths of them, studies have shown.
根据某些研究表明，吃坚果零食意味着你很可能在这一天稍后的时间里会少吃一些。这种摄取量的减少可以抵消很多来自坚果的卡路里——研究显示，所抵消的卡路里可高达四分之三。
Nuts are also resistant to digestion, thanks to the tough walls of their cells. As much as one-fifth of the fat in nuts never gets absorbed by the body, Dr. Mattes estimated in a 2008 paper published by The Journal of Nutrition. He noted some weaker evidence that nuts may cause people to burn a little more energy as they simply sit around.
坚果对于消化还具有抵抗作用，这是由于它们坚硬的细胞壁。马特斯博士在2008年一份发表于《营养学期刊》(The Journal of Nutrition)的论文中估计，坚果中高达五分之一的脂肪不会被人体吸收。他还举出了一些尚不那么切实的证据，表明坚果或许能令人哪怕仅仅是坐着都能燃烧稍多一些的热量。
Even the fat that the body absorbs from nuts tends to be virtuous. It’s mostly unsaturated fat, with lesser amounts of the saturated type whose excessive consumption has been associated with heart disease.
即使是坚果中被人体所吸收的那部分脂肪，也往往是有益的。它们大部分属于不饱和脂肪，饱和类型的脂肪量较少，而心脏病已被认为是与后者的过度摄取有关。
But even the best foods come with caveats, and nuts have several to consider. Their high fat content generates the powerful allure that food scientists call mouth feel, making it tempting to wolf down a lot of them. Two cups of mixed nuts can pack 1,600 calories.
不过，即使是最好的食物也有应该注意的问题，坚果就有好几点需要考虑。它们的高脂肪含量会生产一种强力的诱惑，食物科学家将之称为“口感”(mouth feel)，它会吸引人狼吞虎咽地吃很多。两个杯子的杂锦果仁可以包含1600个卡路里。
“When I travel, I take nuts,” said Barbara Rolls, director of the Laboratory for the Study of Human Ingestive Behavior at Penn State and the author of “The Ultimate Volumetrics Diet.” “They’re compact and energy-dense, great when you’re stuck on a runway for hours. But I do find them easy to overeat.”
“在我出行的时候，我就吃果仁，”宾夕法尼亚州人类摄食行为学会实验室(Laboratory of the Study of Human Ingestive Behavior)主任、《最佳容积膳食法》(The Ultimate Volumetrics Diet)的作者芭芭拉·罗尔斯(Barbara Rolls)说，“它们既轻便又含高热量，在你被关在机舱里好几个小时的时候，它是非常好的。但我也确实发现，它们很容易令人吃得过多。”
Also, diets commonly fail (and quickly) when people become bored, or feel deprived, and turn back to less-nutritious foods. Can nuts even come close to holding their own against the Oreo?
而且，在人觉得无聊或者缺少点什么的时候，节食通常就会（很快地）宣告失败，然后回过头去吃那些营养成分低的食物。在与奥利奥(Oreo)的对抗中，坚果能守住阵地吗？
This is where Dr. Mattes’s current study comes in. He is trying to determine whether nuts have staying power as a substitute for other snacks. Will they remain appealing if people eat them every day, or be tossed aside in favor of chips or cookies?
这正是马特斯博士目前正在研究的问题。他试图测定，坚果在替代其他零食这一点上，是否具有持久力。如果人们每天都吃坚果，那它还能保持吸引力吗，又或者还是会被薯片和曲奇所取代？
The 20 volunteers will be asked to eat a handful of almonds every day for 12 weeks. Their brains will be scanned at the start, midway through and at the end of the trial, to see if their pleasurable response changes over time.
20名志愿者会被要求连续12周每天吃手抓一把那么多的杏仁。他们的大脑会分别在一开始、中间以及实验的最后被扫描，看看他们的愉悦反应是否会随着时间而改变。
The more pleasure they get, the more neurological activity will appear in the insular cortex, amygdala, dorsal striatum and other parts of the brain known as the reward centers because they send signals of pleasure when we do things that keep us, or our species, going, like eating and having sex. (The scans, known as functional magnetic resonance imaging, don’t actually measure neural activity, but rather changes in blood flow, which is a good indicator.)
他们所得到的愉悦感越多，在大脑岛叶皮质、杏仁体、背侧纹状体以及大脑其他被认为是“奖励中枢”的部分所出现的神经活动就会越多，因为在做一些能够令我们，或者说我们的物种繁衍下去的事情——比如进食和性交的时候——这些部分就会发生愉悦信号（这种被称作“功能性核磁共振成像”的扫描，实际上并不是测量神经活动，而是测量血流量的变化，而后者是一项很好的指标）。
To quote the old candy-bar slogan, sometimes you feel like a nut; sometimes you don’t.
引用一句经典的糖果棒广告标语来说的话就是，有些时候你疯了似地想吃果仁，有些时候则不想。
“It’s been our experience that some people like them less and less over time,” Dr. Mattes said. “And some learn to like them more and more, so that they get unhappy when the trial is over and their free supply gets cut off.”
“我们的经验是，有些人会随着时间而越来越不喜欢吃，”马特斯博士说，“有些人则习得性地越来越喜欢，于是当实验结束而他们的免费果仁供应停止的时候，他们就会不高兴。”
My own trip through the scanner was just a trial run to get a taste of the experiment, and I got only three almonds to eat. But an hour later, in choosing a place for dinner, I zeroed in on some pad Thai and went straight for the chopped peanuts.
我本人尝试被扫描的经历，只不过是对这个实验的牛刀小试，而我只吃到了三颗杏仁。但是一小时之后，在选择晚餐地点时，我的目标直指某一种泰式炒河粉，为的就是里面那些碎花生米。