ARUSHA, Tanzania — Roger Gower, an experienced British helicopter pilot, was flying low over a wildlife reserve near the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania on Friday, searching for signs of poaching, when he spotted an elephant carcass. He circled back for a closer look.
坦桑尼亚阿鲁沙——周五，经验丰富的英国直升机飞行员罗格·高尔(Roger Gower)低空飞越坦桑尼亚塞伦盖蒂国家公园附近的野生动物保护区，以搜寻偷猎迹象。他发现了一具大象尸体，因此折返进行近距离观察。
Then gunshots rang out from below. Apparently he had happened on the carcass just after the elephant had been killed, and the poachers were still on the scene.
然后下面就响起了枪声。他似乎是在大象刚被杀后就偶然发现了这具尸体，偷猎者仍在现场。
A bullet punctured the underside of the helicopter and sliced through Mr. Gower’s leg and shoulder. He managed to crash-land the helicopter, but died of his injuries soon afterward.
一颗子弹穿透了直升机底部，以及高尔的腿部和肩部。他成功地进行了紧急降落，但后来很快就因为伤势过重而死亡。
“It’s tragic, what happened, but this is the reality of what’s going on,” said Frank Pope, the chief operations officer for Save the Elephants, a prominent wildlife organization in neighboring Kenya. “You’ve got desperate people who are armed and committing a crime. When you’re doing antipoaching operations, you’re on the sharp end.”
“发生了这种事，非常悲惨，但这就是我们周围的现实情况，”拯救大象(Save the Elephants)首席运营官弗朗克·波普(Frank Pope)说。“那些铤而走险的人全副武装，犯下罪行。开展反偷猎行动时，大家处于矛盾最尖锐的位置。”拯救大象是邻国肯尼亚的知名野生动物保护组织。
Dozens of wildlife rangers have been killed in recent years across Africa, as elephant poaching has reached a frenzied pitch. Tens of thousands of elephants have been slaughtered for their ivory by the poachers, who have grown increasingly militarized and more ruthless.
近些年来，随着偷猎大象活动日益猖獗，非洲各地有数十名保护区巡逻员被杀。偷猎者屠杀了数以万计的大象以获取象牙，这些偷猎者变得愈发军事化，也越来越残忍。
Tanzanian officials said on Monday that they were closing in on the poachers who shot at Mr. Gower’s helicopter, and that they had already arrested several accomplices, including two who the authorities said had helped hide the poachers.
坦桑尼亚官员在周一表示，他们正在追捕击中高尔直升机的偷猎者，他们已经逮捕了几名共犯，当局称其中两名共犯曾帮助偷猎者藏身。
According to Pratik Patel of the Friedkin Conservation Fund, a nonprofit wildlife charity that employed Mr. Gower as a pilot, the suspects in the shooting are Tanzanian and have poached in the area before. “We know their names,” Mr. Patel said.
弗里德金保护基金会(Friedkin Conservation Fund)的普拉提克·帕特尔(Pratik Patel)表示，涉嫌开枪的是坦桑尼亚人，之前曾在该地区偷猎。就是该非营利性野生动物慈善组织雇佣了高尔担任飞行员。帕特勒表示，“我们知道他们的名字。”
Tanzania’s elephant population has declined drastically because of poaching, to just 43,000 in 2014 from 109,000 in 2009.
坦桑尼亚的大象数量因为偷猎活动而大幅减少，从2009年的10.9万头减少到2014年的4.3万头。
The country’s National and Transnational Serious Crimes Investigation Unit has arrested several high-profile suspects recently, including Yang Feng Glan, a Chinese woman who Tanzanian officials say is “the ivory queen,” responsible for exporting thousands of tons of ivory to China. She is awaiting trial in Dar es Salaam, the country’s largest city.
坦桑尼亚国家及跨国重罪调查组(National and Transnational Serious Crimes Investigation Unit)最近已经逮捕了几名备受瞩目的嫌疑人，其中包括被坦桑尼亚官员称为“象牙女王”的中国女子杨凤兰。杨凤兰曾将数千吨象牙运至中国。目前，她正在该国最大城市达累斯萨拉姆候审。
Both poachers and wildlife rangers across Africa have turned to military-style tactics. In October, poachers killed three rangers and a military officer who were conducting an antipoaching operation in Garamba National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
非洲各地的偷猎者和野生动物保护区巡逻员都采用了军事化手段。去年10月，偷猎者杀死了三名巡逻员和一名军官，他们当时正在刚果民主共和国的加兰巴国家公园(Garamba National Park)开展反偷猎行动。
Wayne Lotter, the director of the PAMS Foundation, a nonprofit organization that supports antipoaching efforts in Tanzania, said that elephant poaching in the country decreased in 2015 but that it remained a serious problem.
PAMS基金会( PAMS Foundation)主任韦恩·洛特(Wayne Lotter)表示，该国偷猎大象的活动在2015年有所减少，但仍然是一个严重问题。该非营利性组织为坦桑尼亚的反偷猎举措提供支持。
“The more you go after them,” Mr. Lotter said, “the more situations where confrontation between poachers and rangers will take place. There are going to be risks.”
“你越追捕他们，”洛特说。“偷猎者与巡逻员对抗的情况越多。就会有风险。”
Mr. Gower, originally from Birmingham, England, had spent much of the last decade working in East Africa, often flying antipoaching patrols, a mission his friends said he believed in deeply.
来自英国伯明翰的高尔过去十年大部分时间都在东非工作，经常飞行巡逻，开展反偷猎行动。高尔的朋友表示，他对自己的任务有着强烈的认同感。