A good haircut lasts long after you leave the barbershop.
如果为男性理发的理发师技术过硬，就能让顾客的头发在离开理发店很久之后依然看着不错。
But how long, exactly?
不过具体是多久？
To a large degree, the life span of a cut depends on the style, and the prevailing Brooklyn do — tight on the sides, with some length on top — puts guys, on average, in the chair once every three to six weeks.
很大程度上，一次理发能维持多久，要看具体样式，当下风靡一时的布鲁克林发型——两边极短，头顶稍长——平均每三到六周需要再剪一次。
“When I give a haircut, of course it’s going to look good — you just got it cut,” said Garrett Pike, a head barber at the Brooklyn-based chain Persons of Interest. “But I try to get the most out of every cut.”
“我给人剪发当然会确保剪得好看——因为是刚剪完。”布鲁克林连锁理发店Persons of Interest的首席理发师加勒特·派克(Garrett Pike)说，“不过，每一次给人理发，我都会努力达到最持久的效果。”
The dialogue with your barber at the start of your session (how long since your last cut, how do you like to wear it, the continuing horror of the New York Knicks) isn’t just small talk; it’s vital information that will lead to a cut that will still look good once you have run it through a shower and may even improve as it grows out.
每次剪发开始时，你和理发师的对话（上次剪发是什么时候，你具体想要剪成什么样，以及纽约尼克斯队糟糕的赛季）并不是无足轻重的；而是包含了重要的信息，它会让你在理发后洗完头，发型仍然好看，甚至头发越长越好看。
The more you can tell your stylist, the better. “You’ve been dealing with your hair your whole life,” Mr. Pike said. “You know all the kooky things that can happen.”
你告诉理发师的信息越多越好。“你一辈子都在和你的头发打交道。”派克说，“所以你知道自己头发有可能会发生的各种奇怪事情。”
Mike Sposito, who cuts hair at the Fellow Barber location in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said, “It all depends on how crispy you’re trying to look.” Crispy, in this case, is slang for how “done” you would like your hair to look. “It’s, like, fresh,” Mr. Sposito said. “The edges are well defined.”
布鲁克林区威廉斯堡Fellow Barber的理发师麦克·斯波西托(Mike Sposito)说，“这完全取决于你对发型清爽度的要求。”在这里，清爽是一句俚语，意思是你想要的“完成度”。“就好比，干脆利落。”斯波西托说，“所有边缘都有清晰的线条。”
Mr. Sposito’s core clientele adheres to the three-to-six-week time frame, but a few visit as often as once a week, hoping to constantly maintain what he calls “the brand-new-sneaker look.”
斯波西托的核心顾客群坚持三到六周的剪发频率，但是有一些顾客每周都会来，他们希望一直保持他所谓的“新球鞋的样子”。
There is such a thing as overdoing it. “If you come too much,” Mr. Pike said, “and you keep asking for the same thing, it’s just going to keep getting shorter and shorter, and you can’t keep hitting the same marks.”
有时是会做过头的。“如果你来得太勤。”派克说，“并且总是一样的要求，那么你的头发会越来越短，你就不能保持完全相同的发型了。”
Nick Wooster, the fashion consultant who is a favorite of the street-style photographers who stand outside runway shows, likes a frequent check-in at Geno’s Barberia in the West Village.
时尚顾问尼克·伍斯特(Nick Wooster)受到了时装秀以外的街拍摄影师的青睐。他是西村的Geno’s Barberia理发店的常客。
“I go every two weeks,” he said. “It makes me crazy if I go even one day over. I may even go every 10 days.” For Mr. Wooster, it is not only about achieving a specific look. “It’s one of those nice things you can do for yourself,” he said.
“我每两周去一次。”他说，“超过一天我都会受不了。我甚至会10天就去一次。”对伍斯特来说，这不仅仅是追求一个特定的发型。“这是你可以为自己做的一件很不错的事情。”他说。
Barbers said that longer, shaggier cuts are coming back. But those, too, require forethought. “I’ve always said: ‘You need to keep coming in. You’re not 14, you can’t just throw a beanie on it,’” Mr. Sposito said. In the growing-out process, he added, you will likely cycle through three or four distinct hairstyles.
理发师说，更长、更蓬乱的发型正在回归。但是，那些发型也需要前瞻性考虑。“我常说：你需要经常来。你不是14岁了，不可以戴个毛线帽来遮掩。”斯波西托说。在把头发留长的过程中，他补充道，你可能要经历三到四种截然不同的发型。
And when it comes to big events — a wedding, a niece’s bat mitzvah, a job interview over Skype — most barbers recommend a buffer of one or two days, to allow the cut to settle. Mr. Wooster, who prefers a day-of cut when he is being photographed, said, “Some barbers say the only difference between a good haircut and a bad haircut is three days.”
当有大事发生时——一场婚礼、侄女的成人礼、在Skype上的一次面试——大多数理发师都建议留一到两天缓冲，让头发长长。伍斯特做模特时更喜欢当天剪出来的发型。他说：“一些理发师说，好看的头发和不好看的只差三天。”