CAIRO — Egypt’s military-backed leaders on Wednesday designated the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization, outlawing the country’s most successful political movement and vowing to treat anyone who belongs to it, or even takes part in its activities, as a terrorist.
开罗——埃及军方支持的领导人周三将穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)定性为恐怖组织，宣布这一埃及最成功的政治运动组织为非法组织，并誓言将以对待恐怖分子的方式对待穆兄会成员，甚至是参与其活动的人员。
Egypt’s leaders have been in conflict with the movement since July, when the military deposed Mohamed Morsi, Egypt’s first democratically elected president and a former Brotherhood leader. State forces have killed hundreds of the group’s supporters during protests against Mr. Morsi’s removal. Most of its leaders and thousands of its members have been imprisoned.
自从今年7月军方罢免了埃及的第一位民选总统、前穆兄会领导人穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)以来，埃及领导人与该组织的冲突一直在进行。在罢免穆尔西所引发的抗议活动中，政府军已经杀死了数百名穆兄会支持者。穆兄会的多数领袖和数千名成员则被关进监狱。
Now, with Wednesday’s decision, the government signaled its determination to cut off any air to the more than 80-year-old Islamist organization.
现在，埃及政府通过上述决定表明了决心：它将不会给这个拥有80多年历史的伊斯兰派组织留下任何活路。
Analysts said the designation opened the door to the most severe crackdown on the movement in decades, requiring hundreds of thousands of Brotherhood members to abandon the group or face prison, and granting the military and the police new authority to suppress protests. The decision makes it a crime to promote the Brotherhood and could also outlaw hundreds of welfare and charitable organizations affiliated with the movement that help Egyptians with little access to government services.
分析人士说，该决定要求数十万穆兄会成员离开该组织——否则就要被关进监狱，为军方和警方赋予了镇压抗议活动的新权力，并为几十年来最严厉的镇压活动敞开了大门。该决定还禁止人们为穆兄会进行宣传，它可能还意味着，穆兄会下属的数百家福利和慈善组织也会被定性为非法组织。
The move came a day after officials blamed the Brotherhood for a suicide bombing at a police headquarters north of Cairo that killed 16 people, though on Wednesday a separate group — Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, which has derided the Brotherhood for its lack of militancy — claimed responsibility for that bombing.
此前一天，埃及政府表示，穆兄会应该为发生在开罗北部警察总局的一次自杀性爆炸事件负责。此次爆炸导致16人死亡。不过在周三，一家名为艾玛格迪斯(Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis)的组织声称对此次爆炸事件负责。该组织曾嘲笑穆兄会缺乏战斗性。
The government was not swayed. In announcing the designation, it again blamed the Brotherhood for bombing the police headquarters, without supplying evidence that the Brotherhood was responsible.
然而政府对此置若罔闻。在宣布上述决定时，政府再次把警察总局的爆炸事件归咎于穆兄会，但没有提供任何相关证据。
Officials framed their decision as part of a long struggle between the state and a militant movement, making no mention of the Brotherhood’s more recent emergence as the most successful force in democratic elections after the fall of President Hosni Mubarak. “The Muslim Brotherhood remains as it has been,” the cabinet said in a statement. “It only knows violence as a tool.”
埃及官员称，上述决定是政府和一个激进组织之间旷日持久的斗争的一部分，没有提到穆兄会前不久已经成为总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)倒台之后，民主选举中最成功的一支力量。埃及内阁在一份声明中说，“穆兄会和以往没有区别，只知道用暴力作为工具。”
The designation represented a victory for government hard-liners who have sought to eradicate the Brotherhood since the military’s ouster of Mr. Morsi in July and who cast doubt on the repeated promises by officials of an inclusive, democratic transition. It appeared to set Egypt, which has been in crisis since the military takeover, on an even more precarious course.
政府对穆兄会的上述定性代表着政府内强硬派人士的一次胜利，在军方7月罢免了穆尔西之后，他们一直寻求铲除穆兄会，并且对官员们反复承诺的包容、民主的过渡抱有怀疑。该决定似乎让自从军方夺取政权之后就一直处在危机之中的埃及走上了一条更危险的道路。
Khalil al-Anani, a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute in Washington who studies the Brotherhood, called the designation “a turning point” and said it could lead Egypt to a civil conflict like the one in Algeria in the 1990s.
华盛顿中东研究所(Middle East Institute)研究穆兄会的高级研究员哈利勒·阿纳尼(Khalil al-Anani)称，埃及政府此举是一个“转折点”，并指出，这可能会让埃及像上世纪90年代的阿尔及利亚那样陷入内乱。
“This is a big miscalculation from the government,” he said. “It is a massive social movement, whose supporters might retaliate or fight back.”
他说，“这是政府的一次严重误判。穆兄会是一个规模巨大的社会运动组织，它的支持者可能会报复或反击。”
Mr. Anani said that the cabinet decision would not have been announced without the blessing of the military and the powerful defense chief, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi. The military was giving the police “carte blanche,” he said. “They don’t have a political solution,” he said.
阿纳尼说，没有军方和权势强大的国防部长阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)的支持，内阁是不会宣布这个决定的。他说，军方把自由处置权交给了警方。“他们没有政治解决方案。”
In a statement, the cabinet said that the authorities would punish anyone who joined the Brotherhood or remained a member, as well as “those who take part in the activity” of the group or “promotes it by speech, writing or any other means and all those who fund its activities.” The law mandates a maximum five-year sentence for joining a banned group, but allows judges to impose lengthier sentences if terrorism is involved.
埃及内阁在一份声明中说，政府将会惩罚加入穆兄会的人、继续留在穆兄会的成员，及那些“参与该组织活动”或“通过演讲、书面或其他形式鼓吹该组织的人，以及资助其活动的所有人”。根据埃及法律规定，加入非法组织最多只能被判处五年监禁，但是如果涉及恐怖主义，法官可以处以更长的刑期。
Still, Ahmed al-Arainy, a Brotherhood member who has already been arrested once since the ouster of Mr. Morsi, said that after months of killings and arrests by the authorities, the new designation “makes no difference to us.”
尽管如此，在穆尔西被罢免之后已经被逮捕过一次的穆兄会成员艾哈迈德·阿尔阿拉尼(Ahmed al-Arainy)说，在当局对我们进行了长达几个月的杀戮和逮捕之后，宣布穆兄会为非法的决定“对我们毫无影响”。
“Our problem with them is on the ground and not related to their labels,” he said of Egypt’s current leaders. “They killed us in the street yesterday, and today they’re trying to legalize the crime they had already committed.”
他提到埃及现任领导人时说，“我们和他们的问题是明摆着的，与他们给我们贴什么标签无关。昨天，他们在街上杀害我们，今天他们只不过是企图把自己犯下的罪行合法化。”