CAIRO — Mohamed Morsi, the deposed president of Egypt, was sentenced to 20 years in prison by an Egyptian court on Tuesday, in the first verdict handed down in any of the criminal cases brought against him after the military ousted him in 2013.
开罗——埃及法院周二判处该国被推翻的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)20年有期徒刑，这是军队在2013年推翻了他的统治之后，对他提起诉讼的多起刑事案件中得到的第一项判决。
Mr. Morsi and a dozen other defendants were convicted of inciting violence and directing illegal detentions and torture. The charges stemmed from a night of bloody of street fighting between Mr. Morsi’s supporters and opponents outside the presidential palace in December 2012. All of the defendants were members of his administration or Islamists from the Muslim Brotherhood, which supported him.
穆尔西及其他十几名被告被判犯有煽动暴力罪、以及犯有下令实施非法拘留和实施酷刑罪。起诉针对的是2012年12月的一个夜间，在总统府外街道上发生的穆尔西支持者与反对者之间的血腥冲突。所有的被告都是穆尔西政府成员、或属于支持穆尔西的穆斯林兄弟会的伊斯兰主义者。
The ruling illustrates the determination of the government of the current president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, to crush the Muslim Brotherhood, the 87-year-old Islamist movement whose candidates received the most votes in presidential and parliamentary elections in 2011 and 2012. The convictions in the case are likely to deepen the alienation of Mr. Morsi’s supporters, and make the chances of any reconciliation even more remote. Mr. Sisi is the former general who led the military takeover.
这项判决说明了以现任总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)为首的政府打击穆斯林兄弟会的决心，穆斯林兄弟会是有87历史的伊斯兰运动，其候选人在2011年和2012年的总统和议会选中得到的票数最多。这次案件判决很有可能加深穆尔西支持者对埃及社会格格不入的感觉，使任何和解的机会变得更加渺茫。塞西是领导了对政府进行军事接管的前将军。
Prosecutors had also accused Mr. Morsi of premeditated murder and had sought the death penalty, but the court acquitted him of those charges.
检方还指控穆尔西犯有预谋杀人罪，并寻求判处他死刑，但法院裁决这个罪名不成立。
Lawyers for Mr. Morsi may appeal the conviction, although he has maintained that the new military-led government is illegitimate and that he does not recognize the authority of the courts. Mr. Morsi may also face the death penalty in at least three other cases against him.
尽管穆尔西认为，军人领导的新政府不合法，他也不承认政府法庭的权威，但穆尔西的律师可能会对判决提出上诉。穆尔西还可能在至少其他三项对他的起诉中面临死刑判决。