MINYA, Egypt — A crowd of relatives who had gathered outside a courthouse in the town of Matay erupted in wailing and rage on Monday when a judge sentenced 529 Islamists to death in just the second session of their trial, convicting all of them of murdering a police officer. Here in the provincial capital just a few miles away, schools shut down early, and many stayed indoors fearing a riot, residents said.
埃及明亚——本周一，当明亚镇一所法院的法官们宣判529名伊斯兰主义者死刑时，他们聚集在法院外的亲属们发出了哀号和怒吼。这529人被指控谋杀了一名警官，法官们仅仅经过两次开庭审理，便给所有人定了罪。在相隔仅几英里远的省城，居民们说学校提早放了学，由于担心发生骚乱，很多人留在了家中。
But the crowds went home and soon the streets were quiet.
但是这些亲属回家了，街上很快变得寂静无声。
After nine months of escalating repression that culminated in the extraordinary verdict, the military-led government that removed President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood appears to have finally cowed his supporters into near-silence here in Minya, perhaps their greatest stronghold. The city was the heart of a fierce Islamist insurgency just two decades ago, and threatened to rise up again, against the new military-led government.
这项离奇的判决让9个月来不断升级的镇压达到了高潮，由军方主导的埃及政府曾把穆斯林兄弟会支持的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)推下台，现在他们似乎终于在明亚把穆尔西的支持者们恐吓到近乎沉默的地步。明亚可能是穆尔西支持者最大的据点，20年前这里还是一场激烈的伊斯兰主义叛乱的心脏地带，而且这里的人扬言要再次组织起来反抗军方主导的新政府。
“They want to scare us so we don’t go out into the streets against them, to show us that could be the justification for another death sentence,” said Mohamed Hafez, whose brother was among those sentenced to death. So rather than give them the pretext, he said, the families consoled themselves that mass sentence was in some ways “a good thing,” because it showed that the trial itself was “a farce” and “illegitimate.”
“他们想吓唬我们，让我们不敢上街反抗，他们想让我们知道，反抗可能会成为另外一些人被判处死刑的理由，”穆罕默德·哈菲兹(Mohamed Hafez)说，他的兄弟也在这场审判中被判处了死刑。他说，因此这些亲属们没有给他们那么做的借口，而是安慰自己说，集体死刑在某些方面是“一件好事”，因为它表明这场审判本身就是“一场闹剧”，是“不合法的”。
Legal experts called it the harshest mass conviction in modern Egyptian history, arguing that it disregarded legal procedures, defied plausibility and stood little chance of surviving appeals. A three-judge panel reached its verdict after two short sessions, and about 400 of those convicted were sentenced in absentia. The Egyptian state news media described the defendants as supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood, and they were convicted of participating in rioting last August, set off by the bloody crackdown that followed Mr. Morsi’s ouster in July.
法律专家说，这是现代埃及历史上最严厉的集体判决，他们认为此举无视法律程序，罔顾合理性，而且上诉胜诉几率极低。在经过两次短短的开庭审理之后，这个三人合议庭便做出了判决，被定罪的人中有大约400个没有到庭。埃及国家新闻媒体称这些被告是穆斯林兄弟会的支持者，他们被定的罪名是参与了去年8月的暴乱，那场暴乱是7月穆尔西被推翻后政府进行的血腥镇压引发的。
But many Islamists said on Monday that they were afraid to speak out or demonstrate against the ruling, often looking over their shoulders anxiously when approached by a reporter.
但是，很多伊斯兰主义者本周一表示，他们不敢对这项判决公开发表意见或进行抗议，当记者试图跟他们交谈时，他们往往会焦虑地回头张望。
It was a stark contrast to the open defiance that prevailed here last fall even after the new government had established firm control of the capital, a three-hour drive to the north. The change was the clearest evidence yet of how far the new government has succeeded in breaking the Islamist networks that just a year ago had appeared to form a durable electoral majority.
这跟去年秋天的情况形成了鲜明对比，当时虽然新政府已经牢牢控制了明亚以北三小时车程远的首都，但这里的公开反抗活动还很普遍。新政府已经成功地瓦解了伊斯兰主义组织，这个变化就是迄今为止最清楚的证据，仅仅一年之前，这些组织看上去还可以构成一个经得起考验的多数派选民群体。
After nightfall in Minya, a crowd chanting against military rule and the day’s court decision marched through the streets of the Abu Hilal neighborhood, where Islamist groups are particularly strong, and several said that there had been protests earlier in the day at the university.
夜幕降临明亚之后，一群人高呼反对军事统治、反对当天法院判决的口号，在阿布希拉尔(Abu Hilal)附近的街道上游行，那里的伊斯兰主义组织的势力特别强大。有几个人说，当天早些时候大学里曾有过抗议活动。
But the crowd of a few hundred was noticeably smaller and more timid than seen in marches in the same streets just a few months ago. And even bystanders repeatedly warned visiting journalists to flee saying police gunfire was imminent. (There was no need: The march broke up voluntarily after scouts on motorcycles reported that the police were coming.)
但跟仅仅几个月前在同一些街道上进行的游行相比，这个由数百人组成的队伍明显规模更小，也更加胆小怕事。就连旁观者都一再告诫来访的记者要赶紧逃走，说警方的枪声就要响起来了。（没必要逃走：骑着摩托车的探子报告说警察正在赶来时，人群自动就解散了。）
“Fear, fear,” said Hussein Tammam, a lawyer for some of those convicted. “Things have changed 180 degrees since last fall,” he said. “The security grip has tightened so much that it is worse than it was in the 1990s,” when the security forces crushed the militant insurgency centered in Minya.
“恐惧，害怕，”侯赛因·塔马姆(Hussein Tammam)说，他是一些被定罪者的律师。“自去年秋季以来，事情已经发生了180度的大转弯，”他说。“安全管控严格了很多，比上世纪90年代还要糟糕。”90年代时，安全部队粉碎了以明亚为中心的武装叛乱。
Rights activists said the ruling also marked a new peak in the enthusiastic support that Egyptian judges at all levels have shown for the military takeover.
维权人士表示，这项判决也标志着埃及各级法官对军事接管的热情支持达到一个新的高度。
“We have never heard of anything of this magnitude before — inside or outside of Egypt — that was within a judicial system as opposed to a mass execution,” said Karim Medhat Ennarah, a researcher at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights who specializes in criminal justice.
埃及个人权益行动( Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights)的刑事司法研究员卡里姆·迈扎特·恩纳拉(Karim Medhat Ennarah)说，“与大规模处决相比，在司法系统内出现如此残酷的判决，是我们闻所未闻的，无论是埃及国内还是国外。”
“It is quite ridiculous,” he said, arguing that it would be impossible to prove that 500 people each played a meaningful role in the killing of a single police officer, especially after just one or two short sessions of the trial. “Clearly this is an attempt to intimidate and terrorize the opposition, and specifically the Islamist opposition, but why would the judge get so deeply involved in politics up to this point?”
他称这是“相当荒唐的”，并指出法院不可能证明500人每个人都在一名警察被杀的事件中发挥有意的作用，特别是在只进行了一两次的短暂审讯之后。“很明显，这是为了威胁、恐吓反对派，特别是伊斯兰主义反对派，但法官参与政治怎么会到了这种程度？”
The verdict was the latest in a string of harsh and speedy sentences against Islamist supporters of the deposed president, including several sentences of 17 years in prison that were handed down after a 10-day trial of a group of student protesters. In Minya, another mass trial of 600 defendants accused of sacking a different police station is set to begin Tuesday. Mr. Tammam, the lawyer, said the same judge is expected to hear the new case. News reports said Mohamed Badie, the jailed spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, was named as one of the defendants, although he was believed to be in Cairo at the time.
针对被罢免总统的伊斯兰主义支持者，此前已经有过多宗严厉的、快速判决的案件，此次只是最新的一个案例，比如法官在对一些抗议学生进行了10天的审讯之后，做出了几项监禁17年的判决。在明亚，另一项涉及600名被告的大规模审判将于周二开始，这些人被控洗劫了另一个警察局。塔马姆律师表示，审理新案件的将是同一名法官。新闻报道称，遭到监禁的穆斯林兄弟会精神领袖穆罕默德·巴迪耶(Mohamed Badie)被列为被告之一，尽管据信巴迪耶当时在开罗。
Even though experts said the death sentences issued Monday were almost certain to be reduced, “the staggering harshness and speed of the verdict still shows how profoundly the basic institutions of the Egyptian state are malfunctioning,” Nathan Brown, an expert on the Egyptian judiciary at George Washington University, wrote in an email about the decision. “Mindless repression still seems to be the order of the day.”
虽然专家们表示，周一做出的死刑判决几乎肯定会有所减轻，“但极其严厉、快速的裁决说明，埃及这个国家的基本机构在很大程度上运转不良，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)研究埃及司法制度的专家内森·布朗(Nathan Brown)在有关该裁决的邮件中写道。“无所顾忌的压制似乎仍是常态。”
He noted that President Gamal Abdel Nasser, the military strongman who set the template for the Arab world, set up special tribunals for the show trials he used to jail thousands of Islamists and execute many of their leaders as he consolidated power 60 years ago. But this time the regular judiciary — once considered a beachhead of liberalism under decades of authoritarianism — was eagerly collaborating.
他指出，60年前，为阿拉伯世界创建了模板的强权军人贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔总统(Gamal Abdel Nasser)为巩固权力，设立了特别法庭，开展走过场的审理，他曾利用此类法庭监禁了数以千计的伊斯兰主义者，并处死了很多伊斯兰主义领导人。但这一次，传统的司法系统——曾被认为是威权主义统治下的自由主义滩头阵地——也非常合作。