CAIRO — The mistaken airstrike by the Egyptian military that killed a dozen people on a Mexican tourist trip in the Western Desert hit at a picnic in the middle of the day, witnesses said Monday, raising new questions about both the extent of the error and the official explanations.
开罗——目击者周一表示，一个墨西哥旅游团在午间准备在埃及西部沙漠(Western Desert)里野餐时，遭到埃及空军误袭，导致十几人丧生。这个说法让人们对错误的严重性和官方的解释，都产生了新的疑问。
The convoy of four sport utility vehicles was about three hours southwest of Cairo on a typical tourist trip through the White Desert, an otherworldly Western Desert area of chalk rocks, at around midday on Sunday when a diabetic passenger complained that she needed to eat, according to a tour-guide official, witnesses and others briefed on the events.
旅游车队由四辆运动型多功能车组成，周日中午前后，车队位于开罗西南约3小时车程的地方。这是一趟前往白沙漠(White Desert)的常见的旅游行程。白沙漠位于西部沙漠地区，拥有奇异的白垩岩景观。据一名导游人员、几名目击者和其他了解此事的人说，当时一位患糖尿病的乘客抱怨说，她需要吃些东西。
So, with the blessing of their police escort and the added security of an Apache military helicopter buzzing on the horizon, the Egyptian guide and his four drivers pulled about a mile off the road to prepare a meal.
他们有警察护送，地平线上还有一架阿帕奇武装直升机在轰鸣，更是增强了安全感，所以埃及导游和四名司机就把车停在距离道路一英里远的地方，开始准备午餐。
It was then that the helicopter opened fire, killing at least a dozen people — including at least two visiting Mexicans — while wounding a tourist policeman and at least 10 others.
就在这时，直升机开火了，造成至少十余人丧生，并造成一名旅游警察和至少10人受伤。死者中至少有两名墨西哥游客。
Some were gunned down as they tried to flee toward the top of a nearby sand dune, said Essam Monem, a resident of the area who arrived that night and saw the bodies in the sand.
一些人试图逃到附近的沙丘时被击中，埃萨姆·莫伦(Essam Monem)说。他是附近地区的居民，那天晚上抵达该地区时看到了沙地中的尸体。
The helicopter crew had mistaken the tourist picnic for a camp of Islamist militants operating in the area, the Interior Ministry said in a statement early Monday. But the accident has nonetheless killed more tourists than any terrorist attack in recent years. Analysts say it has threatened to do new damage to Egypt’s already crippled tourist industry by raising questions about both the competence of the security forces and the prevalence of the militants they were attempting to hunt.
内政部在周一早些时候发表声明称，直升机上的机组人员误将游客的用餐地，当成了在该区域活动的伊斯兰派武装分子的营地。然而此次事件导致的游客死亡，比近年来的任何一场恐怖袭击都要多。分析人士表示，民众对安全部队的能力产生了质疑，也对军方本该追剿的武装分子的势力产生了疑问。这起事件可能会给埃及已然受到冲击的旅游业造成新的损害。
“What we saw was not just the lack of training of the military forces but also their desperation,” said Mokhtar Awad, a researcher at the Center for American Progress who tracks Egyptian militant groups, noting that Islamic State militants in the area had also released photographs on Sunday that appeared to show they had beaten back an army unit in battle earlier the same day.
“我们看到的不仅仅是军队缺乏训练的问题，还有他们的慌张，”关注埃及武装团体的美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)研究员穆赫塔尔·阿瓦德(Mokhtar Awad)说。他提到，在该地区活动的伊斯兰国武装分子也在周日公布了一些照片，似乎显示出他们在当天早些时候的战斗中，击退了政府军的一支部队。
“It tells you how chaotic the situation is,” he said, “if they feel so desperate to put an end to this that they end up taking out what we gather is the first thing they see.”
“这说明了形势有多混乱，”他说。“他们如此急迫地想要结束战斗，所以据我们推测，他们第一眼看到那群人就开火袭击了。”
Initial reports Sunday night from Egyptian security officials had said that the error took place late at night, when mistaking tourists for militants might be less hard to imagine.
埃及安全官员周日晚间的初步报告称，误袭事件发生在深夜，因此误以为游客是武装分子可能没那么难以想象。
In its statement on Monday, the Interior Ministry sought instead to blame the tour guides, suggesting that the convoy had entered a “banned area” without permission.
在周一的声明中，内政部转而试图指责导游，称车队在未经许可的情况下进入了“禁区”。
A Mexican tourist group “was present in the same banned area” as a group of “terrorist elements” that the military and police forces had been chasing, the ministry’s statement said. It also said a team had been formed to look into “the reasons and circumstances of the accident and the justifications for the presence of the tourist group in the aforementioned banned area.”
内政部的声明提到，当军队和警察部队追赶一群“恐怖分子”时，一个墨西哥旅游团“也在同一片禁区内”。内政部还声称，已经建立工作组，调查“意外事件的原因、情况，以及旅游团来到上述禁区的理由”。
But the official union of tour guides and friends of the trip’s leader, who was killed in the attack, circulated photographs of the convoy’s official permit on the Internet. Union officials and friends of the guide said the tour had stuck to a common, widely used tourist route, passed through several police checkpoints and moved only with the approval of its tourist police escort.
但官方的导游工会，以及遇难带团导游的朋友，在互联网上发布了车队取得的官方许可证的照片。工会官员及这名导游的朋友表示，此次旅行走的是广泛采用的常见路线，经过了几个警方检查站，在获得随行的旅游警察许可的情况下才继续前行。
The group had “no information that this region is banned, no warning signs, and no instructions from checkpoints on the road, or the Tourism and Antiquities policeman present with them,” Hassan el-Nahla, the chairman of the General Union of Tourist Guides, said in a statement.
埃及导游总工会(General Union of Tourist Guides)主席哈桑·纳赫拉(Hassan el-Nahla)发表声明称，该旅游团“没有得到该地是禁区的信息，没有警告标示，路上的检查站和陪同的旅游和古迹警察也没有给出指示”。
“Egypt will pay the price of the impact of this incident on the tourism industry,” he said.
他表示，“该事件对旅游业造成了影响，埃及将为此付出代价。”
In Mexico, Foreign Minister Claudia Ruiz Massieu told a news conference that two Mexican citizens had been killed and six more wounded; reports in the Egyptian state media had initially said that eight Mexicans had died in the accident.
在墨西哥，外交部长克洛迪娅·鲁伊斯·马西厄(Claudia Ruiz Massieu)在新闻发布会上表示，两名墨西哥公民遇难，另有六人受伤；埃及官方媒体的报道起初称，有八名墨西哥人在事件中遇难。
“We are waiting for the appropriate Egyptian authorities to give us access to better information that will allow us to know the situation of the rest of the affected people,” Ms. Ruiz Massieu said.
鲁伊斯·马西厄表示，“我们在等待埃及相关机构为我们提供更多信息，让我们了解其他受影响的人的情况。”
In a formal diplomatic note to the Egyptian ambassador, Mexico “expressed its deep consternation for these deplorable events and demanded that an expedited, exhaustive and thorough investigation is carried out.”
在向埃及大使发出的正式外交照会中，墨西哥“表示对这些悲惨事件深深感到震惊，并要求埃及从速开展详尽、彻底的调查”。
The air attack on the picnic took place not far from the oasis town of Bahariya, a tourist hub that is a common staging ground for camping excursions into the White Desert.
埃及军方对野餐的人群发起袭击的地方，距离绿洲城镇巴哈利亚不远。进入白沙漠的露营游客，通常会在巴哈利亚集结。
That area had been considered relatively safe compared with the more remote areas farther west. But residents and security officials said that in recent days Islamic State militants had kidnapped a local Bedouin they had suspected of having acted as a government informer.
与西部偏远区域相比，人们认为该区域相对安全。但居民及安全官员表示，最近几天，伊斯兰国武装分子劫走了当地的一名贝都因人，伊斯兰国怀疑该人充当了政府的线人。
The security forces had located the militants and sought to attack them in an effort to rescue the captive Bedouin, the residents and security officials said, but the militants had overwhelmed and beaten back the government’s troops.
居民及安全官员表示，安全部队确定了武装分子的位置，试图对他们发起攻击，营救被俘的贝都因人，但这些武装分子击退了政府军。
That battle appears to have been the basis for the photographs and statement released late Sunday by the Egyptian branch of the Islamic State, Mr. Awad of the Center for American Progress said on Monday. One photograph showed a Bedouin captive bound and beheaded, with his head resting on his back.
美国进步中心研究员阿瓦德在周一表示，伊斯兰国埃及分支周日晚间发布的照片和声明，依据似乎就是这场战斗。一张照片显示，一名被俘的贝都因人已被斩首，身体被绳子捆着，头颅靠在背上。