The bodies of eight officials and journalists who went to a remote village in Guinea to dispel rumors about the deadly Ebola outbreak gripping the region were discovered after a rock-hurling mob attacked the delegation, claiming that it had come to spread the illness, a government spokesman said Thursday.
一名政府发言人周四称，为了驱散致命埃博拉病毒大面积爆发的谣言而前往几内亚一偏远村庄的八名官员和记者的尸体已被找到。此前，他们的团队遭遇了暴力团伙的袭击，后者向他们投掷石块，并指责他们是来传播疾病的。
The delegation had left for the village on Tuesday for what was supposed to be a community event to raise awareness about the Ebola virus, said the spokesman, Albert Camara Damantang. When the angry crowd descended on them, he said, several officials managed to escape and alert their colleagues in Conakry, Guinea’s capital, who sent out a search party.
这位名叫阿尔贝特·卡马拉·达曼唐(Albert Camara Damantang)的发言人说，这个团队周二离开这个村子之后，本来要去参加一个旨在呼吁关注埃博拉病毒的社区活动。她说，大量愤怒的暴徒出现后，几名官员设法逃了出来，并通知了在几内亚首都科纳克里的同事，后者派出了搜索队。
“They went on a mission to try to sensitize the local population about Ebola, but unfortunately they were met with hostility by people throwing rocks,” Mr. Damantang said.
“他们是为了让当地民众理性对待埃博拉病毒，但不幸地是，人们却敌视他们，向他们投掷石块，”达曼唐说。
In the delegation was a sub-prefect, a regional health director and a pastor “who came to offer solace, as well as several journalists from communal radio stations,” Mr. Damantang said. “Among the only survivors we found of those who tried to hide in the bush was the 5-year-old son of the sub-prefect, who was left hiding in the wild.”
团队中有一名专区行政长官、一名地区卫生主管和一名“前来抚慰民众的”牧师，“以及几名公共广播站的记者，”达曼唐说，“我们发现那些设法藏到灌木从的人中有一些幸存者，包括专区行政长官五岁的儿子，他躲在了荒无人烟的地方，没有被发现。”
The Ebola epidemic has already killed more than 2,600 people in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Governments have scrambled to figure out a way to contain it, but beyond their own limited resources, collapsing health systems and inexperience with the disease, they have faced another dangerous obstacle: distrust among the local population.
埃博拉疫情已经导致几内亚、利比里亚及塞拉利昂地区2600多人死亡。各国政府努力寻找遏制疫情的方法，但除了资源有限、卫生系统崩溃、缺乏应对该疾病的经验外，他们还面临另一个危险的阻碍：当地民众的不信任。
In Guinea, workers and officials, blamed by panicked populations for spreading the virus, have been threatened with knives, stones and machetes.
在几内亚，惊慌失措的民众指责工作人员及官员传播病毒，人们拿着匕首、石头及砍刀威胁他们。
In Liberia, some politicians have publicly expressed doubts about the extent of the outbreak, and even accused the administration of exaggerating it to collect money from international donors.
在利比里亚，一些政治人士对疾病的肆虐程度公开表示怀疑，甚至指责政府为了获得国际捐赠者的赠款夸大疫情。