CAIRO — The Egyptian military has enlisted Muslim scholars in a propaganda campaign to persuade soldiers and policemen that they have a religious duty to obey orders to use deadly force against supporters of the ousted president, Mohamed Morsi.
开罗——埃及军方征召了一批穆斯林学者发动宣传攻势，以说服士兵和警察，宗教义务要求他们遵从指令，对遭罢黜的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者使用致命武力。
The effort is a signal that the generals are worried about insubordination in the ranks, after security forces have killed hundreds of their fellow Egyptians who were protesting against the military’s removal of the elected president — violence by the armed forces against civilians that is without precedent in the country’s modern history.
这种努力表明，在安全部队杀害数百名抗议军方罢黜民选总统的埃及同胞后，军方将领担心士兵们会违抗命令。在埃及的近现代史上，还从未有过武装部队对平民采用这种程度的暴力的先例。
The recourse to religion to justify the killing is also a new measure of the depth of the military’s determination to break down the main pillar of Mr. Morsi’s support, the Islamists of the Muslim Brotherhood. Indeed, after ousting Mr. Morsi in the name of tolerance, inclusiveness and an end to religious rule, the military is now sending religious messages to its troops that sound surprisingly similar to the arguments of radical militants who call for violence against political opponents whom they deem to be nonbelievers.
军方诉诸宗教来为杀戮正名，这也重新展示出，军方瓦解支持穆尔西的主要力量——伊斯兰主义组织穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)——的决心之大。是的，在以宽大、包容及终结宗教统治为名推翻穆尔西之后，军方却在向其部队发出宗教讯息，其中的观点与极端激进分子呼吁采用暴力手段对付他们眼中的非信徒如出一辙。
“When somebody comes who tries to divide you, then kill them, whoever they are,” Ali Gomaa, the former mufti appointed under President Hosni Mubarak, is seen telling soldiers in a video made by the military’s Department of Moral Affairs. “Even with the sanctity and greatness of blood, the prophet permits us to fight this,” he said in the video, likening opponents of the military takeover — implicitly, the Brotherhood — to an early Islamic sect that some scholars considered to be infidels, and thus permissible to kill. Mr. Gomaa later said the military had shown the video to troops and riot police officers across Egypt.
埃及军方道德事务部(Department of Moral Affairs)制作的一则视频显示，曾在前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)治下担任穆夫提的阿里·戈马(Ali Gomaa)对士兵们说，“有人试图分裂你们的时候，杀死他们，无论他们是谁。纵然血是神圣而伟大的，先知允许我们予以抗击。”在视频中，他将反对军方接管的人——暗指兄弟会——比作部分学者认为是异教徒的一个早期伊斯兰教派，因而对他们的杀戮是受到允许的。戈马后来表示，军方已在埃及各地的士兵和防暴警察中间播放该视频。
In a video against the same backdrop, Salem Abdel Galil, a former senior scholar in the ministry that oversaw mosques under Mr. Mubarak, appeared to say such opponents were “aggressors who have to repent to God” They are “not honorable Egyptians,” he said.
另一则视频采用了同样的背景幕，其中显示，在穆巴拉克政府掌管清真寺的部门里任高级学者的萨利姆·阿卜杜勒·贾利勒(Salem Abdel Galil)称，这些反对者是“必须向真主忏悔的寻衅攻击的人”，他们“不是体面的埃及人”。
“If they continue like this, then they are neither recognized by religion, nor by reason or logic,” Dr. Abdel Galil said, adding that “to use weapons when needed” against such foes was the duty of the armed forces. “The heart is at ease about this,” he said. In a Facebook posting Sunday night, Dr. Abdel Galil said that his comments were made in response to questions about “terrorists who attack the military,” not Morsi supporters, but that the video released to the public was edited to distort his meaning.
“如果执迷不悟，那么他们在宗教、理性和逻辑上都不会得到承认，”阿卜杜勒·贾利勒博士称。他还表示，“必要时使用武器”对付这样的敌人是武装部队的责任。“对这一点可以心安，”他说。周日晚间，阿卜杜勒·贾利勒博士通过Facebook发帖称，他的言论针对的是“袭击军方的恐怖分子”，不是泛指穆尔西的支持者，但有人对被公布的视频进行了剪辑，曲解了他的本意。
Amr Khaled, a televangelist who is popular with young Muslims, specifically addressed the question of insubordination in a military video. “You don’t obey your commander while performing a great task?” he asked, adding, “You, you conscript in the Egyptian military, you are performing a task for God Almighty!”
进行电视宣教的阿姆鲁·哈立德(Amr Khaled)在年轻穆斯林中间颇受欢迎。他也在一则军方视频中特意阐述了忤逆问题。“执行伟大任务的时候你们违抗上级？”他问道，并接下来说，“你们，你们应征入伍，是在为全能的真主执行任务。”
Asked a series of questions about the speeches in an e-mail, Col. Ahmed Aly, a military spokesman, replied that the military held monthly “cultural meetings” about broad subjects, including religion. Dr. Gomaa was one of several scholars who visited “to lecture our officers,” Mr. Aly said.
针对邮件提出的关于这些演讲的一系列问题，军方发言人艾哈迈德·阿里上校(Ahmed Aly)作答，军方每个月会就广泛议题召开“文化会议”，其中包括宗教问题。他还表示，戈马博士是受邀来访“对我们的军官进行演讲”的数名学者之一。
It was unclear when the military filmed the speeches or distributed them to the troops. Segments of them were posted on the Internet over the weekend, at a moment when the government installed last month by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi appeared to be demonstrating its new grip on power.
目前尚不清楚军方是何时拍摄这些演说并下发到部队的。上周末，其中的一些片段开始在互联网传播，这段时间，由阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·赛西上将(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)在上月任命的政府正在进一步巩固权力。
“There is a fear of disobedience” in the clerics’ videotaped speeches, said Emad Shahin, a political scientist at the American University in Cairo.
开罗美国大学(American University in Cairo)政治学者伊马德·沙欣(Emad Shahin)说，神职人员录制的演说“展示出了对抗命行为的恐惧。”
“Now we are going into fatwa wars,” he said, referring to declarations of rulings by Muslim clerics. The new government, he added, “is waging an all-out war, and using all the weapons at their hands, including religious fatwas, to dehumanize their opponents and justify killing them.”
在提及穆斯林神职人员宣布的裁决时，他表示，“现在我们进入圣战了。”他接着说，新政府“要发动全面战争，把手中所有武器都用上，其中就包括宗教圣令，这样可以把对手非人化，从而把杀戮变成合理的行为。”
Professor Shahin recalled similar clerical statements distributed by President Gamal Abdel Nasser when he cracked down on the Brotherhood after he took power in the 1950s. The Nasser government published them in a pamphlet under the title “The Brothers of the Devil.”
沙欣还记得在20世纪50年代贾迈勒·阿卜杜·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)总统镇压穆兄会时也发布过类似的宗教阐述。当时纳赛尔政府是通过一本题为《魔鬼兄弟会》(The Brothers of the Devil)的小册子发表这些阐述的。
Some Morsi supporters have tried to turn the tables, arguing that General Sisi was the aggressor who divided the country when he overturned a legitimate, democratically elected government.
穆尔西的一些支持者试图扭转乾坤，指称推翻了合法民选政府的赛西才是分裂国家的暴徒。
But Mohamed Omara, a scholar associated with the Brotherhood, said that allegations of religious faith or infidelity had no place in the Egyptian crisis, which was a political disagreement and not a religious issue — even when the tanks were circling the presidential palace. “No one who speaks in the name of religion has the right to excommunicate a faction of those battling in Egypt,” he said, “Excluding others is not the right stance.”
但是与穆兄会有关联的学者默罕默德·奥马拉(Mohamed Omara)说，那些号称的宗教信仰或背信在埃及危机中是不存在的，这是一种政治分歧，而非宗教纷争——即便当总统府被坦克包围的时候。“任何人都无权以宗教的名义将在埃及奋斗的某一个派别开除教籍，”他说。“排除异己不是正确的立场。”
The first fragmentary account of the clerics’ statements appeared on Wednesday in a harsh report on a Web site aligned with the Muslim Brotherhood. That suggested that at least some of the soldiers and police officers who heard the speeches sympathized with the Brotherhood enough to leak the information.
一个支持穆兄会的网站在周三发布的一篇语气严厉的报道中首次贴出了这种神职人员声明，不过是不完整的版本。这表明至少听过演讲的士兵和军官中至少有一部分人是对穆兄会抱有同情的，因此泄露了这个消息。
Then professional-quality segments of the speeches began appearing on the Internet over the weekend.
到了周末，专业画质的演讲片段开始在互联网上流传开来。
In one of the segments, Dr. Abdel Galil is seen addressing the subject of the military takeover directly: “They speak of a coup. What coup? This is the will of the people.” He appeared to call its Islamist opponents “preachers of strife” and to say, “Those are criminals; those are aggressors, and the state needs to take the necessary measures to eradicate them.” He said Sunday night that these comments were also edited and distorted.
在其中一个片段中，阿卜杜勒·贾利勒谈到了军方直接接管一事：“他们说政变。什么政变？这是人民的意愿。”他把伊斯兰主义对手称作“宣扬冲突的人”，说“那些人是罪犯；是暴徒，国家需要采取必要措施清除他们。”他在周日晚上表示，这些评论也是经过编辑和歪曲的。
Dr. Khaled is seen advising the soldiers and police not to “let anybody make you question your faith.” He added: “The day you wore that uniform and these boots, and you made that salute, and you stood up in your line — you’re not doing a job for a commander, you’re working for God.”
哈立德则在演讲中建议士兵和警察不要“让任何人动摇你的信仰。”他还说：“当你穿上那身制服，穿上靴子，敬礼，站在队列里——你不是在为指挥官做事，你是在为神做事。”