CAIRO —At least 25 soccer fans died on Sunday in a confrontation with the police at the gates of a stadium, morgue officials said, in the latest flash of violence to confront the military-backed government as it struggles to restore security 18 months after coming to power.
开罗——管理太平间事务的官员称，周日在一座体育场的门口，至少25名球迷在与警方的冲突中死亡。这是埃及政府面临的最新一起暴力事件。上台18个月后，由军方支持的政府依然无力恢复安全局势。
The death toll was expected to rise.
死亡人数预计还会上升。
The hard-core fans known as Ultras are proud of their long history of battling the police and they often formed the front lines of the violent protests that followed the Arab Spring revolt here four years ago.
这些人称阿尔特拉斯(Ultras)的铁杆球迷以与警方斗争的悠久历史而骄傲。四年前，埃及爆发阿拉伯之春运动。在那之后的暴力抗议活动中，他们常身处队伍的前列。
In February 2012, a brawl between rival groups of fans at a match in the city of Port Said killed at least 70 people. The Egyptian authorities became so worried about their inability to control the crowds that for the past three years they have banned fans from soccer games, forcing teams to play in virtually empty stadiums.
2012年2月，塞得港市两支对阵球队的球迷发生殴斗，导致至少70人死亡。过去三年，埃及当局非常担心自己无力控制人群，以至于禁止球迷现场观看足球比赛，迫使球队在几乎空无一人的体育场比赛。
The violence on Sunday was set off in part by an attempt to begin loosening those restrictions, allowing the sale of just 5,000 tickets to the public, according to reports in the official state news media.
根据官方新闻媒体的报道，在一定程度上，周日的暴力事件的导火索是当局尝试开始放松这方面的管制，允许向公众出售5000张门票。
At the start of the game, around 6 p.m., thousands of ticketless fans of a popular team, Zamalek, reportedly tried to enter the stadium anyway. “The Zamalek fans tried to get in by force, and we had to prevent them from damaging public property,” the Interior Ministry said in a statement reported by the state news media.
比赛在晚上6点左右开始。据报道，当时数千名没买到票的球迷依然试图进入体育场。他们是颇受欢迎的球队扎马雷克(Zamalek)的球迷。官方新闻媒体报道称，埃及内政部(Interior Ministry)在一份声明中说，“扎马雷克球迷试图用武力进场，我们不得不阻止他们破坏公共财产。”
Later, the news media reported that police officials attributed the deaths to “a stampede, when more than 6,000 of the Zamalek Club fans tried to break in,” with “many falling over each other.”
随后，新闻媒体又报道称，警方将伤亡归咎于“6000多名扎马雷克俱乐部球迷试图往里闯时，发生了踩踏，很多人被绊倒”。
“Because of the stampede, some choked and died from asphyxiation, while the rest died from being trampled,” the police said, according to the website of Al Ahram, the flagship state newspaper. “Some of them had been sleeping on the ground in front of the bus that was transporting the players to the club, in an attempt to stop some of the players from entering the stadium,” the statement said.
据主要的官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)的网站报道，警方称，“因为发生了踩踏，一些人死于窒息，还有一些人则是被踩死的。”声明称，“一些人睡在运送球员去俱乐部的大巴车前，试图阻止部分球员进入体育场。”
The fans, known as the Zamalek White Knights, said in multiple separate accounts that the police had set off the stampede by firing tear gas into a crowd of thousands of fans already jammed into a narrow, enclosed space.
有多名被称作扎马雷克白骑士(Zamalek White Knights)的球迷称，因为警方向挤在一个狭窄封闭空间里的数千名球迷发射催泪瓦斯，才引发了踩踏。
One Zamalek fan, Abdel Rahman Ben Kamal, wrote in an account on his Facebook page that as many as 8,000 fans were waiting in a fenced-in corridor about 12 feet wide when without warning security forces began firing tear gas.
扎马雷克球迷阿卜杜勒·拉赫曼·本·卡迈勒(Abdel Rahman Ben Kamal)在自己的Facebook页面上写道，安全部队未发出警告便开始发射催泪瓦斯，当时有多达8000名球迷等候在一个用栅栏围起来的过道里，过道大约12英尺（约合3.7米）宽。
“The smell of the gas burned the face,” he wrote. “People fell to the ground and they were stepped on, and I was one of them, but there were people below me.” He wrote that he had recited his last prayers and saw at least 20 people die.
“催泪瓦斯的味道让脸感到灼痛，”他写道。“一些人倒在了地上，被其他人踩在脚下，我就是其中的一个，但我身下还压着其他人。”他还写道，自己已经做了临终的祷告，并目睹了至少20人死亡。
“I swear by God we will get back their rights even if it takes seas of blood,” he added.
“我对神发誓，即便赴汤蹈火，我们也要替他们讨回公道，”他接着写道。
A well-known White Knights leader using the online alias Yassir Miracle wrote on the Internet that the police had let about 5,000 fans into an enclosed corridor and then closed the barricades behind them.
一位网名为“亚西尔奇迹”(Yassir Miracle)的著名白骑士领袖在网上写道，警方先让大约5000名球迷进到一个封闭过道里，然后合上了他们身后的栅栏。
“They shot tear gas at us; people died from the gas and the pushing, but they had shut the exit,” he wrote, adding that the riot police “were searching the corpses and the people who had just collapsed and collecting the wallets and money.”
“他们向我们发射催泪瓦斯，人们死于催泪瓦斯和相互推搡，但他们却关闭了出口，”他写道，并接着表示，防暴警察“对遇难者遗体和刚倒下的人进行搜身，搜走了钱包和现金。”
“Ambulances arrived after one hour,” he wrote, “and the police continued to run after us and shoot us with tear gas and bird shot around the stadium in the desert.”
“救护车过了一个小时才到，”他写道。“那时，在地处沙漠的那座体育场周围，警方依然在追赶我们，用催泪瓦斯和散弹枪向我们开火。”
The fleeing fans, he said, were unable to enlist passing drivers to help carry away their dead. “There are five bodies, including one child, and the cars are not stopping so we can move them,” he wrote, posting pictures of a few of the dead or injured.
他说，逃命的球迷无法说服路过的司机帮忙运走遇难的同伴。”有五具遗体，包括一名儿童，那些车没有停下来，因此我们没法运走他们，”他写道。他还上传了多幅伤亡人员的照片。
A fan identifying himself as Nader el-Sayed wrote that police officers at checkpoints were arresting anyone wearing a shirt that said Zamalek or Ultras.
一名自称纳德尔·赛义德(Nader el-Sayed)的球迷写道，任何人只要穿着写有扎马雷克或阿尔特拉斯字样的T恤，都会在警察的检查站被捕。
“A 7-year-old boy fell from the tear gas; people stepped over him running away, and the ambulance is saying he is dead,” Mr. Sayed wrote. He posted a picture of a stampede, writing, “Tear gas was fired at us from behind at this moment, and scores of people were falling.”
“一名七岁的男孩因为受催泪瓦斯攻击而倒地；逃命的人从他身上踩过，救护车上的人说他死了，”赛义德写道。他上传了一张踩踏现场的照片，并写道，“此时，有人从背后向我们发射催泪瓦斯，很多人倒地。”
The deaths Sunday night followed the killing of about 20 civilians two weeks ago in clashes with police officers around the Jan. 25 anniversary of the start of the Arab Spring revolt.
周日晚上这起造成了人员死亡的事件发生前，大约20名平民在与警察的冲突中死亡。那是在两周前，也就是阿拉伯之春运动周年纪念日1月25日前后。
James M. Dorsey, author of a widely followed blog about Middle East soccer, said the riot on Sunday night was a troubling setback for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who claimed to restore order after the military takeover he led in 2013.
詹姆斯·M·多尔塞(James M. Dorsey)表示，对总统阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)来说，周日晚上的骚乱是一次让他头疼的挫折。塞西曾表示，在他2013年领导军方接管政权后，秩序已得到恢复。多尔塞是一个介绍中东足球的博客的作者，博客的关注者甚众。