CAIRO — The Egyptian military said on Monday that it had carried out airstrikes in Libya in retaliation for the beheading of more than a dozen Egyptian Christians by a branch of the Islamic State extremist group there.
开罗——周一，埃及军方称其对利比亚实施了空袭，以报复伊斯兰国极端组织的一个当地分支斩首杀害了十多名埃及基督教徒。
In a statement Monday morning, the Egyptian military said that it had conducted airstrikes at dawn against training camps and arms depots of the Islamic State group in Libya, but it did not provide further details. News reports and social media indicated that Egyptian warplanes had struck Derna, a town in eastern Libya that is a hub of Islamist militancy. It is also close to the Egyptian border, well within the range of the jets.
周一上午，埃及军方在一份声明中说，他们清晨对利比亚境内伊斯兰国组织的训练营和武器库实施了空袭，但没有提供更多细节。新闻报道和社交媒体显示，埃及战机袭击了利比亚东部的伊斯兰教徒交战中心城镇德尔纳。该城靠近埃及边境，是战机航程可达的地方。
The airstrikes are a dramatic escalation of Egypt’s role in the continuing battle between armed factions in Libya for control of the country. With the backing of the United Arab Emirates, Egypt has worked covertly to support a Libyan general who is fighting to take back the capital and much of the coast from a rival coalition of militia groups, some of which are made up of Islamist extremists.
在利比亚武装派别争夺国家控制的战斗中，空袭行动将埃及的作用急剧升级。在阿联酋的支持下，埃及秘密为一位利比亚将领提供协助，该名将领试图从反对派民兵组织联盟手中收复首都和大部分沿海地区，而一些民兵组织由伊斯兰极端分子组成。
In a televised address late Sunday night, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt vowed that his country would take action to avenge the killings.
在上周日晚的一个电视讲话中，埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)誓称，埃及将采取行动，报复杀戮。
“Egypt preserves the right to respond, with the appropriate manner and timing, in order to carry out retribution on those killers and criminals who are stripped of the most basic of human values,” Mr. Sisi said.
“埃及保留以适当的方式和时间做出回应的权利，以向剥夺了人的最基本价值的刽子手和罪犯实施报复，”塞西说。
The Egyptian military said in a statement issued around 8:30 a.m. that the dawn strikes were “retribution and response to the criminal acts of terrorist elements and organizations inside and outside the country.”
埃及军方在一份上午8：30左右发布的声明中说，清晨的袭击是“对国内国外具有恐怖主义成分和恐怖组织的罪行的报复和回应。”
“We stress that revenge for the blood of Egyptians, and retribution from the killers and criminals, is a right we must dutifully enforce,” the statement said. Egyptian state television showed footage of F-16s taking off in the dark as the statement was read on the air.
声明说：“我们强调，为埃及人流的血复仇，惩罚凶手和罪犯，这是我们的权利，必将得到忠实的履行。”声明被宣读时，埃及国家电视台配合播放了F-16战斗机在夜色种起飞的画面。
The broadcast then showed a video montage of jets, soldiers, tanks and warships, all set against a soaring musical score. It was narrated by a deep male voice, familiar to those who heard military announcements when generals seized power from President Hosni Mubarak four years ago.
接着出现了战斗机、士兵、坦克和军舰的蒙太奇画面，伴随着昂扬的音乐。一个低沉的男性声音响起，四年前听到军方宣布从总统穆巴拉克手中接管权力的人很熟悉那样的声音。
“Honor, nation,” the narrator says. “This is the slogan of men who ask for death as a sacrifice for the nation. They are men who do not know the meaning of impossible. They penetrate rocks and mountains, and they challenge difficulties. They race each other for martyrdom, on land, sea and air. Their life is a heroic epic, and their martyrdom a sacrifice for dignity and a pride for Egypt.”
“光荣和祖国，”画外音说道，“这是情愿以死殉国的人信奉的口号。他们从不知道不可能为何物。他们挑战困难，金石为开。在陆地、海洋和天空，他们争相赴死，杀身成仁。他们的生命是一首英雄史诗。他们的就义，是为了尊严而牺牲，是埃及的骄傲。”
The leader of the Libyan air forces for the anti-Islamist faction, Saqer al-Joroushi, appeared on Egyptian state television and estimated that the strikes had killed “not less than 40 or 50” people.
利比亚反伊斯兰主义阵营空军司令乔罗希(Saqer al-Joroushi)出现在埃及国家电视台，他估计空袭打死了“不少于40或50人”。
Egypt’s air assault came less than 12 hours after the main Islamic State group released a video online that appeared to show fighters from the group’s self-proclaimed Tripolitania Province beheading more than a dozen Egyptian Christians.
埃及空袭距离伊斯兰国发布视频，显示该组织所谓“的黎波里塔尼亚省”的武装分子斩首十余名埃及基督教徒，不到12小时。
The Christians were among the thousands of Egyptians who routinely travel across the border to Libya to find work in its oil-rich economy, forging a deep connection between the two neighboring states. About 20 Egyptian Christians disappeared around the coastal city of Surt weeks ago, and last month the Tripolitania Province released a picture showing that it had captured them.
这些基督教徒来自经常跨越边境的成千上万埃及人的行列，他们前往石油资源丰富的利比亚寻找工作，在这两个邻国之间建立了深厚的纽带。好几周前，大约20名埃及基督教徒在海滨城市苏尔特附近失踪，上个月，的黎波里塔尼亚省公布的照片显示，这些人被该省抓获。
The video of their beheadings Sunday night aroused special horror in Egypt and beyond because it was filmed with the theatrical brutality that has become a trademark of the Islamic State.
他们被斩首的视频周日晚在埃及和埃及以外的地区引起了特别的恐怖，视频是用伊斯兰国特有的戏剧性残暴拍手法拍摄的。
Released under the logo of the Islamic State’s media arm and with the title “A Message Signed With Blood to the Nation of the Cross,” the video appeared to show a row of masked fighters dressed in black and with ceremonial knives at their chests parading more than a dozen captives in orange jumpsuits along a Mediterranean beach in western Libya.
视频以伊斯兰国媒体部的名义发布，题目是“一份用鲜血签署的发给十字架国家的信息”，视频显示了一排蒙面武装分子，他们身穿黑色服装，将礼仪刀持在胸前，押着穿橙色囚服的被俘者，走在利比亚西部地中海的海滩上。
Speaking in English, the lead executioner proclaimed in the video that the fighters were part of the larger Islamic State group fighting in Syria, warned that they would allow no safety to “crusaders,” invoked the American military’s burial at sea of Osama bin Laden and alluded to apocalyptic prophecies about a coming battle for Rome. The fighters then forced their captives to the ground, sawed through their necks, and let the blood darken the waves.
刽子手的头领在视频中用英语宣布，这些武装分子是在叙利亚作战的大伊斯兰国的一部分，并警告说，他们不会给“十字军”留下任何安身之地，还提到了美军海葬奥萨玛·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的事情，以及世界末日预言中的即将到来的罗马之战。然后，武装分子把被俘者推倒在地，用刀锯他们的脖子，让血把海水染成深色。
The video appeared to show a greater degree of communication and collaboration between the Islamic State and its Libyan satellite group than Western officials had previously known.
视频显示出的伊斯兰国及其利比亚卫星组织的联系与协作程度，看来比西方国家官员此前知道的要大。
Egypt’s airstrikes on Monday threatened to draw it further into the Libyan conflict. Islamist fighters in Libya could now seek to stage attacks across the long, lightly patrolled desert border with Egypt, or to increase their support for allied Egyptian militants already attempting to foment an insurgency here.
埃及周一发动的空袭，有把该国进一步卷入利比亚冲突的危险。利比亚的伊斯兰武装分子现在可以在两国漫长且几乎无人巡逻的沙漠边境上发动跨越边境的袭击，或增加对与其结盟的埃及武装分子的支持，这些埃及武装分子已试图在内部煽动叛乱。
The Egyptian military gave no indication on Monday of whether the airstrikes were a one-time punishment for the killing of its citizens or the beginning of a more prolonged military effort.
埃及军方周一没有明确表示，空袭是对自己公民被杀的一次性报复、还是一场更长期军事行动的开端。
The leaders of Libya’s internationally recognized government welcomed the Egyptian retaliation. That government has relocated to the Libyan cities of Tobruk and Bayda, not far from the Egyptian border, and has allied itself with the general fighting against the Islamist factions.
利比亚得到国际公认的政府的领导人对埃及的报复行动表示欢迎。这个政府已搬到距埃及边境不远的利比亚城市图卜鲁格和贝达，并已与抵制伊斯兰教派的广泛战斗结盟。
At least three different groups of militants inside Libya have proclaimed themselves so-called provinces of the Islamic State, mainly through online messages and videos. Their leaders and locations are unknown.
利比亚境内至少有三个不同的武装分子组织，主要通过网上发布的消息和视频，宣布自己是伊斯兰国的所谓省份。这些武装组织的领导人和所在地目前不详。
Supporters of anti-Islamist factions inside Libya have increasingly used the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State to refer to all of their opponents, whether extremists, more moderate groups, or less ideological local and tribal militias who are merely allied with the Islamists.
利比亚境内支持抵制伊斯兰教派的人们越来越多地使用伊斯兰国的阿拉伯语缩写来称呼所有的对手，不管他们是极端分子，还是更温和的团体，或是与伊斯兰主义者结盟、但并不那么意识形态化的地方和部落民兵组织。
The blurring of the terms for the purpose of propaganda against the Islamist-allied forces now increases the uncertainty about which positions Egypt might have sought to attack.
为了抵制以伊斯兰名义结盟的宣传目的，混淆称呼的做法，如今增加了埃及可能寻求打击哪些势力的不确定性。
Mr. Sisi, a former general who led the military ouster of the Islamist president here 18 months ago, has made it clear since then that he views the chaos in Libya as a danger to Egypt’s own stability. Mr. Sisi’s government has struggled to suppress a festering Islamist insurgency set off after the military removed President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood in June 2013, and Egyptian officials say they believe that the militants move across the porous border with Libya to obtain weapons and support.
前将军塞西曾在18个月前领导了推翻埃及的伊斯兰教派总统的军事行动，自那时以来，他一直明确表示，他认为利比亚的混乱是对埃及自身稳定的威胁。自从埃及军队于2013年6月将来自穆斯林兄弟会的穆罕默德·穆尔总统赶下台后，塞西的政府一直在努力打击那之后发生的伊斯兰叛乱，而叛乱则在不断恶化，埃及官员说，他们认为，武装分子跨越看守不严的利比亚边境，从那边得到武器和支持。
Last summer, Egypt provided bases for jets from the United Arab Emirates to launch at least two airstrikes targeting Islamist-allied militias in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, when they were fighting for control of the city.
去年夏天，埃及曾为阿拉伯联合酋长国的飞机提供基地，当时发生过针对在利比亚首都的黎波里争夺该城控制权的、与伊斯兰教派结盟的民兵组织的两次空袭。