EDWA, Egypt — Egyptian courts on Monday delivered devastating new blows to both the Islamist and liberal opponents of the new military-backed government.
埃及埃德瓦——周一，埃及法院向反对军方撑腰的新政府的伊斯兰主义者和自由派发出了新的致命打击。
A court in Minya, a provincial capital, sentenced to death the top spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood along with more than 680 others in connection with the killing of a single police officer during a riot here last summer, while a court in the capital banned the activities of the most effective left-leaning protest group, the April 6 movement, on espionage charges.
埃及明亚省省会明亚市(Minya)的一个法院将穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的最高精神领袖以及其他680多人判处死刑，后面这些人与去年夏季一名警察在这里的一次暴乱中被杀的事件有关。此外，埃及首都的一所法院禁止影响最大的左倾抗议组织“4月6日运动”(April 6 movement)进行活动，罪名是从事间谍活动。
The rulings were the clearest evidence yet of the judiciary’s energetic support for the new government’s crackdown on dissent of all kinds in the aftermath of the military ouster last summer of Egypt’s only fairly elected president, Mohamed Morsi of the Brotherhood.
这些判决结果是最为明确的证据，表明埃及司法机构大力支持新政府对各种异见人士的镇压行动。此前，军方于去年夏季驱逐了埃及唯一一名通过公平选举产生的总统、穆兄会的穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。
The mass death sentence, announced after a cursory trial of a few sessions lasting just minutes, was the second of its kind from the same court in the space of a month, and it drew condemnation from the White House as well as international rights groups. The reaction threatened to embarrass the new government just as its foreign minister, Nabil Fahmy, was visiting Washington on a mission to persuade the Obama administration to unlock millions of dollars in aid suspended after the military takeover.
前述大规模死刑判决是同一个法院在一个月内做出的第二个此类判决；宣布判决之前，法院只进行了程序简单的草率审判，整个过程只持续了几分钟。该判决引来了白宫和国际人权组织的谴责。这种反应可能会使埃及新政府陷入尴尬，因为其外交部长纳比尔·法赫米(Nabil Fahmy)正在华盛顿访问，试图说服奥巴马政府解封对埃及的数百万美元援助。埃及军方掌权之后，美国暂停了这笔援助。
Yet here in Edwa, a town of a few thousand where at least one member of every extended family appears to have been sentenced to death on Monday morning, anger at the sweeping verdict mixed with wonder at the apparent dysfunction of the courts and police. With only a small portion of the defendants in custody — and some living openly at home in Edwa — many residents said they took the verdict as a politicized threat meant to intimidate the Islamist opposition and argued that the executions could never take place without triggering an insurrection.
埃德瓦只有数千人口，似乎每个大家族都有至少一名成员于周一上午被判处死刑。然而，这里的人们既对这样的大规模死刑判决感到愤怒，又对法院和警察的明显失能感到疑惑。鉴于被告当中只有一小部分目前在押——部分被告仍旧公然住在自己位于埃德瓦的家中——许多居民都表示，他们认为这项判决只是一个意在恐吓伊斯兰反对派的政治化威胁，绝不可能在不引发暴动的情况下得到执行。
“We are living in absurdity,” said Mohamed Abdel-Wahab, 60, the principal of a local school who was among those sentenced to death on Monday on charges that he participated in the attack on a local police station that led to the killing of the officer.
“我们生活在荒谬之中，”60岁的穆罕默德·阿卜杜勒-瓦哈卜(Mohamed Abdel-Wahab)说。他是一所当地学校的校长，也是周一被判处死刑的被告之一。他所受到的指控是参与了针对当地一个警察局的袭击，袭击最终导致前述警察遇害。
Both of the trials that ended in mass death sentences date to clashes that took place when the security forces used deadly force to break up sit-ins held by Mr. Morsi’s supporters to protest his ouster, killing nearly 1,000 people in a day, according to the best estimates by independent rights groups.
这两次以大规模死刑判决收场的审判都是肇源于此前发生的冲突。当时，安保部队动用致命性武力驱散了穆尔西支持者为抗议穆尔西被驱逐而举行的静坐抗议，根据独立维权组织提供的最确切估计，镇压行动在一天之内就导致近千人死亡。
The province of Minya, an Islamist stronghold that was at the center of an insurgency 20 years ago, was a major flashpoint. Mobs stormed and destroyed several churches and police stations.
明亚省是伊斯兰主义者的大本营，还是20年前一次暴动的中心，因此经常发生冲突。冲突之中，暴民袭击并摧毁了此地的几座教堂和几个警察局。
In the case of Mr. Abdel-Wahab, who learned of his sentence from his weeping wife when he returned home from a party on Monday, the accusations are particularly implausible. He is a survivor of multiple heart operations and he is visibly feeble. He insisted that doctors had forbidden him to walk up stairs or inhale smoke, much less battle tear gas and bullets to ransack a police station. He pulled up his jalabiya to show surgical scars on both calves.
在阿卜杜勒-瓦哈卜的案件中，相关的指控尤其不可信。周一参加完聚会回家之后，他才从哭泣的妻子那里得知自己被判死刑。他做过好几次心脏手术，看起来很虚弱。他坚称，医生要求他不要爬楼梯，也不要吸烟，更别提顶着催泪瓦斯和子弹去袭击警察局了。他撩起自己的长袍，展示了两条小腿上的手术疤痕。
“I am the one who broke into the police station and killed the police officer?” he asked, sitting in his living room surrounded by family.
“我会是冲进警察局，杀死那名警察的人吗？”他坐在客厅里说，他的家人围在他的身边。
In finalizing last month’s mass verdict, the judge in both cases, Saed Youssef, on Monday confirmed the death sentences on 37 of those defendants while commuting 492 to life in prison. But if the verdicts are not yet final, rights advocates say the two mass death sentences are just the most extreme examples in a pattern of harsh, politicized verdicts. Increasingly, said Michelle Dunne, an Egypt expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “there seems to be no attempt even to construct plausible cases.”
周一，这两起案件的法官赛义德·优素福(Saed Youssef)为上个月的大规模死刑判决定了案，确认了其中37名被告的死刑判决，并将492人改判为终生监禁。但维权人士说，如果判决并不是最后结果，这两次大规模死刑判决就只能算是非常极端的例子，说明法院惯于做出仓促的政治化判决。卡内基国际和平基金会(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的埃及问题专家米歇尔·敦内(Michelle Dunne)称，越来越明显的情况是，“他们似乎连编造合理证据的事情也懒得做了。”
The death sentence against the Brotherhood’s spiritual leader, Mohamed Badie, 70, known as the supreme guide, appeared to mark a particular escalation. Trained as a veterinarian, he is revered as a religious authority by hundreds of thousands of Brotherhood members and supporters around the country, and, if carried out, his death sentence would mark the first time the Egyptian government has executed a supreme guide during more than six decades of often-bloody attempts to suppress the Brotherhood. In 1954, the government of President Gamal Abdel Nasser sentenced to death Supreme Guide Hassan el-Houdaibi, but his sentence was later commuted and he was released.
判处人称总训导师的穆兄会精神领袖、70岁的穆罕默德·巴迪耶(Mohamed Badie)死刑似乎标志着局势大幅升级。巴迪耶学过兽医，被全国各地成千上万的穆兄会成员和支持者尊为宗教权威。六十多年里，埃及政府对穆兄会进行了往往血腥的镇压，而他的死刑判决如果得到执行，将标志着埃及政府六十多年来首次处决一名总训导师。1954年，贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(GamalAbdel Nasser)总统领导的政府判处总训导师哈桑·埃尔-胡达伊比(Hassan el-Houdaibi)死刑，但埃尔-胡达伊比后来被减刑，最终获释。
Security forces arrested Mr. Badie last summer, and he remains in jail in Cairo facing multiple charges of inciting violence in the aftermath of the military takeover. His conviction in the Edwa case, however, is notable because he was known to be in Cairo at the time of the attack on the police station. And what’s more, all of his public statements during the period leading up to the attack emphasized calls for nonviolence. “Our peacefulness is stronger than bullets,” he declared in a televised speech, in a phrase that became a Brotherhood rallying cry.
巴迪耶于去年夏天被安保部队逮捕，现在仍被关在开罗，面临在军方接管政权后煽动暴力的多项指控。然而，他在埃德瓦案件中被判有罪一事值得注意，因为据人们所知，警察局遇袭时他在开罗。更重要的是，在警察局遇袭之前的一段时间里，他的所有公开声明的重点都是呼吁非暴力。“我们的温和比子弹更有力，”他在一次电视讲话中说。这句话后来成了穆兄会的战斗口号。
The left-leaning April 6 movement also espouses nonviolence. It helped spearhead the revolt against President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, and it has been critical of authoritarianism and police abuses under Mr. Morsi and the new military-backed government, earning it the special enmity of the security forces. On Monday, a panel known as the Cairo Court of Urgent Matters found the group guilty of conspiring with foreign powers and “committing acts that distort the image of the Egyptian state,” according to the official state newspaper. Its members have repeatedly denied those charges, which have often been floated as rumors in the state news media.
左翼组织“4月6日运动”也支持非暴力。该组织协助领导了2011年针对总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的反抗行动，并且一直在抨击穆尔西以及军方撑腰的新政府的专制作风和警方滥权行为，由此招致了安保部队格外强烈的敌意。官方报纸称，周一，一个名为开罗紧急事务法院(Cairo Court of Urgent Matters)的专门小组裁定该组织有罪，罪名是与外国势力勾结，“从事扭曲埃及国家形象的活动”。这些指控经常以传言的形式见诸官方新闻媒体，该组织成员已多次否认这些指控。
But on Monday it was the mass death sentence that captured the most attention. The White House said the ruling “defies even the most basic standards of international justice.”
不过，周一这天，吸引了大部分关注的还是前述的大规模死刑判决。白宫称这一判决“践踏了国际正义哪怕是最基本的标准”。
Asked about the sentences at an appearance at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, Mr. Fahmy, Egypt’s foreign minister, said that the alarm was exaggerated, suggesting they might be overturned on appeal. “Don’t jump to conclusions,” he added.  “Let the legal process follow through.” 
在华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)露面时，埃及外长法赫米被问及相关判决。他说人们紧张过度了，并称这些判决可能会在上诉时被推翻。“不要急着下结论，”他接着说，“等法律程序走完再说。”
In Edwa, several residents warned that if the verdicts were left standing or were carried out, Minya would again erupt in violence.
在埃德瓦，几名居民告诫称，如果这些判决维持不变或是得到执行，明亚将再次爆发暴力冲突。
“They must want to turn Minya into Syria and start a civil war, because that is what will happen if any of these death sentences is executed,” said Ahmed Omar, 37, a shopkeeper with two brothers who were sentenced on Monday. Both are at large — one working in Qatar, the other in Cairo.
“他们肯定是想把明亚变成叙利亚，挑起一场内战，因为那正是任何一项死刑判决得到执行的必然后果，”37岁的店铺老板艾哈迈德·奥马尔(Ahmed Omar)说。他有两个兄弟在周一被判处死刑。两人都未被捕，一个在卡塔尔工作，另一个在开罗。
Ahmed, the 33-year-old son of Mr. Abdel-Wahab, said he would take matters into his own hands if his father were put to death.
阿卜杜勒-瓦哈卜33岁的儿子艾哈迈德(Ahmed)说，如果父亲被处死，他将亲手进行报复。