Egypt’s interim president swore in a new cabinet on Tuesday that was dominated by liberal and leftist politicians, sweeping away the brief era of Islamist political rule built by the country’s deposed president, Mohamed Morsi.
本周二，埃及临时总统主持了内阁宣誓仪式，自由派和左派政治家在新内阁中占据主导地位，终结了该国被废黜总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi) 短暂的伊斯兰政治统治时代。
Not one of the 34 cabinet members belongs to the Muslim Brotherhood, the 80-year-old Islamist movement that propelled Mr. Morsi to the presidency a year ago, or to any other Islamist party. The cabinet does include three women and three Coptic Christians, making it slightly more diverse, in some respects, than Mr. Morsi’s cabinet.
在34名内阁成员中，有80年历史、一年前把穆尔西推上总统位置的穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)或任何其他伊斯兰政党都没有人入选。内阁中有三名女性和三名科普特基督徒成员，因此就某些方面而言，新内阁比穆尔西内阁的多样化程度略有提高。
Egypt’s defense minister, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, who has emerged as the country’s de facto leader since Mr. Morsi’s ouster two weeks ago, added the title of deputy to the prime minister to his portfolio, though the specific powers it carried remained vague.
自从两周前穆尔西下台以来，埃及国防部长阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el- Sisi)已经成为该国事实上的领袖，本届政府中他兼任副总理，不过该头衔有何种具体权力目前仍不清楚。
Even as analysts credited some of the ministers for their competence and for bringing badly needed expertise to Egypt’s escalating economic crisis after a year of mismanagement, the composition of the cabinet exposed it to the same criticisms once heaped on Mr. Morsi: that he excluded his opponents from governing and, in the process, demolished any sense of political consensus.
一年来的管理不善导致埃及经济危机升级，分析师们认为新任命的一些部长能力较强，可以提供改善经济危机所亟需的专业知识，但新内阁的组成结构也同样面临着穆尔西曾经遭受过的批评：把反对者排除在政府之外，从而瓦解了任何意义上的政治共识。
That seemed likely to widen the political fissures that appeared during Mr. Morsi’s presidency and after his ouster, as his supporters took to the streets, vowing to remain until he was released from custody and restored to his post, a demand that was echoed by the Brotherhood.
新内阁的组成结构似乎有可能扩大穆尔西任总统期间以及他下台后出现的政治裂痕，因为穆尔西的支持者们已经走上街头，发誓要在那里抗议到他获释并复职为止，穆兄会对这一要求表示了支持 。
“In this political scene, they are sending a signal that says we won and you lost,” said Moataz Abdel Fattah, a political economist at Cairo University.
“在这个政治舞台上，他们发送了一个‘我们赢了，你们输了’的信号。” 开罗大学的政治经济学家莫阿塔兹·阿卜杜勒·法塔赫(Moataz Abdel Fattah)说。
A spokesman for Adli Mansour, Egypt’s interim president, denied Tuesday that anyone had been “excluded” and said that positions had been offered to members of the Brotherhood and the ultraconservative Islamist Al Nour Party.
本周二，埃及临时总统阿德里·曼苏尔(Adli Mansour)的一名发言人否认有人受“排挤”，并表示之前就邀请过穆兄会和伊斯兰极端保守组织光明党(Al Nour Party)的成员在新政府中任职。
But a Brotherhood spokesman, Gehad al-Haddad, said the party was not offered any posts. At the same time, he made clear that the Brotherhood was unwilling to take part, saying, “The whole thing is illegitimate.”
但是，穆兄会发言人吉哈德·哈达德(Gehad al-Haddad)说，该党没有接到任何任职邀请。同时他也明确表示穆兄会不愿意参与组建内阁，他说：“整件事都不合法。”
In a statement, Al Nour, which initially blessed the military takeover and called for a purely technocratic government, said the new government’s partisan makeup was a “repetition of the same mistake they blamed the former government for.”
在一份声明中，起初对这次军事政变表达了认可、并呼吁成立一个纯技术官员政府的光明党说，新政府的党派构成是在“重复曾被他们批评的前政府的错误。”
“The policy of monopoly and the exclusion of others,” the statement continued, “deepens the state of division, confusion and instability.”
声明还说，“一家独大和排斥其他派别的做法让分裂、混乱和不稳定的状况越发恶化。”
The formation of the government is part of a military-led transition plan that is supposed to lead to parliamentary elections within six months. The interim prime minister, Hazem el-Beblawi, a respected 76-year-old economist, faces an economy in free fall, deepening security challenges in the Sinai Peninsula and elsewhere, and a drop in tourism that has choked off a critical source of foreign currency.
组建临时政府是军方主导的过渡计划的一个步骤，该计划预定在六个月内做好准备，进行议会选举。 76岁的哈齐姆· 贝布拉维(Hazem el-Beblawi) 是一名备受尊敬的经济学家，目前担任临时总理，他面临的问题包括：经济剧烈下滑，西奈半岛和其他地方的安全形势恶化，旅游业下滑堵住了一个重要的外币来源。
At the same time, his government has received critical aide, including from gulf Arab states that provided nearly $12 billion after Mr. Morsi’s ouster.
与此同时，新政府也收到了大笔援助， 比如海湾阿拉伯国家在穆尔西下台后提供了将近120亿美元的资金。
Analysts said questions about the government’s legitimacy would depend on Mr. Beblawi’s ability to deliver results quickly to a frustrated public and prove that his government is independent from General Sisi, who brought it to power.
分析师表示，新政府是否合法这个问题取决于贝布拉维的能力：他能否让心灰意冷的埃及民众迅速看到政绩，并且证明新政府不会受制于将它推上台的塞西将军。
The widespread perception that Egypt’s sprawling state bureaucracy had stopped cooperating with Mr. Morsi means that the new government will face even harsher scrutiny than its predecessor, analysts said.
分析人士说，人们普遍认为埃及庞大的政府官僚体系已经停止跟穆尔西合作，这意味着新政府将面临比前任政府还要严厉的审查。
“These people came in on top of tanks,” said Emad Shahin, a political scientist at the American University in Cairo. “It is not an inclusive government.” At the same time, he said, the government will most likely face fewer obstacles because of “a will from the military and certain regional powers.”
“这些人是坐着坦克进入政府的，”开罗美国大学(American University in Cairo)的政治学者伊马德·沙欣 (Emad Shahin)说： “这不是一个包容性强的政府。”与此同时，他也说，新政府面临的障碍很可能会比较少，因为它有“军方和某些地区掌权者的支持。”
“People wish this government to succeed, unlike the previous one,” Mr. Shahin said.
沙欣说：“人们希望本届政府跟上届不一样，可以获得成功。”
Several ministers who had served under Mr. Morsi’s widely criticized cabinet returned to their posts. Despite frequent blackouts before Mr. Morsi’s ouster, the electricity minister kept his job, as did the interior minister, Mohamed Ibrahim, who human rights advocates criticized as having done nothing to reform security services that are notorious for abuse allegations.
有几位曾在饱受批评的穆尔西内阁里任职的部长，现在官复原职了 。尽管穆尔西下台之前经常停电，但电力部部长却保住了他的职位，内政部部长穆罕默德·易卜拉欣(Mohamed Ibrahim)也是一样，虽然人权倡导者批评他不作为，没有改革因滥用权力而臭名昭著的安全部门。
Other appointments, though, seemed to indicate a willingness to try something new. Kamal Abu-Eita, a trade unionist known for opposing former President Hosni Mubarak, was chosen as the minister of manpower, and Laila Iskander Kamel, a community organizer who has worked with Cairo’s garbage collectors, became minister of environment.
但是，本次任命的其他部长似乎显示了政府愿意尝试一些新的做法。人力部部长卡迈勒·阿布-埃塔(Kamal Abu-Eita)是一位工联主义者，因反对前总统霍斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)而闻名，曾与开罗的垃圾清运工合作的社区组织者莱拉·伊斯坎德尔·卡迈勒(Laila Iskander Kamel)成为环境部部长。
Analysts also noted that Mr. Beblawi, who served in a previous government after Mr. Mubarak was deposed in 2011, had shown some independence from the military when he offered his resignation after the army was accused of killing protesters.
分析人士还指出，穆巴拉克2011年被废黜之后，贝布拉维曾在一届前政府中任职，在军队被指杀害示威者后递交了辞呈，表明他在军方面前是有一定独立姿态的。