CAIRO — Most Egyptian journalists have had to watch their tongues and tone down their reporting over the past three years to keep their jobs under a military-dominated government. Now, the state is ordering some women working as television anchors to practice a similar restraint with their weight.
开罗——过去三年里，在以军方为主导的政府领导下，大部分埃及记者为了保住饭碗，不得不谨言慎行，避免发出过于尖锐的报道。现在，这个国家正要求电视台的一些女主播以同样的克制态度面对自己的体重问题。
Earlier this week, Safaa Hegazy, the director of state-run Egyptian radio and television, barred eight anchorwomen from appearing on the air for a month, saying they were overweight, the state-owned Al-Ahram news website confirmed. Ms. Hegazy ordered the women to go on a diet during their suspensions, Al-Ahram said.
经官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)的网站证实，本周早些时候，国有性质的埃及广播电视联盟负责人萨法·赫加齐(Safaa Hegazy)禁止八名女主播在未来一个月内出现在荧屏上，说她们超重了。《金字塔报》称，赫加齐勒令这些女性在停职期间节食减肥。
Khadija Khatab, one of the eight anchorwomen, said that she had not yet been formally notified of Ms. Hegazy’s order, but added that she was recently told that “measures will be taken against” those who fail to lose weight by mid-September, according to an interview she gave to a privately owned television station.
八位女主播之一的哈蒂嘉·哈塔布(Khadija Khatab)接受了一家私人电视台的采访，称自己尚未正式收到与赫加齐的命令有关的通知，但她补充说，自己最近被告知，相关方面会对未能在9月中旬前成功减肥的人“采取措施”。
Ms. Khatab said she was offended that coverage of her ordeal included words like “fat” and similar terms she called “unfair” and “insulting.” She also said that the pictures of her that had been circulating and mocked on the internet and social media sites were old and that she had lost weight since they were taken.
哈塔布说，媒体对其困境的报道中夹杂着“肥胖”等她称之为“不公平的”、“带有侮辱性的”的字眼，让她受到了冒犯。她还表示，互联网和社交网站上流传的她那些备受嘲弄的照片是很久以前拍摄的，她的体重自那时已经有所下降。
“I believe I am an ordinary Egyptian woman who looks normal, and I don’t wear too much makeup,” Ms. Khatab said, challenging people to contradict her.
“我认为我是一名外表正常的普通埃及女性，而且我的妆并非过浓，”哈塔布说她愿意听听反驳的声音。
Many did.
许多人都做出了反驳。
Alaa el-Sadani, a commentator for Al-Ahram, said that she was “sickened by the disgusting and repulsive” appearance of the eight suspended anchors, and that she believed the rest of the country agreed with her.
《金字塔报》的评论员阿拉·萨达尼(Alaa el-Sadani)说，被停职的八位女主播“不堪入目、可憎”的外表让她感到厌恶，她相信其他国人和她有一样的感受。
Fatma al-Sharawi, another Al-Ahram writer, welcomed the move as a way to improve the abysmal ratings of the state channels. “Is a ban for eight enough?” she asked.
《金字塔报》的另一名作者法特玛·沙拉维(Fatma al-Sharawi)认为这是一项很好的举措，有助于提振国家电视台糟糕的收视率。“停八个人的职够吗？”她问。
Viewership of state television, long dismissed by many Egyptians as a comically biased news source, fell significantly after the uprising that removed President Hosni Mubarak from power in 2011.
国家电视台一直被许多埃及人斥为有失偏颇到滑稽可笑地步的新闻来源。自从导致胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)下台的起义于2011年爆发以来，其收视率一落千丈。
“They don’t understand that people don’t watch them because they have no credibility, skills or quality,” said Mostafa Shawky, a free-press advocate with the Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression. “It has nothing to do with looks. But it goes to show that actual skill is not something they care about.”
“他们不明白，人们不看他们的节目是因为他们没有信誉、才能或品质，”自由思想与表达协会(Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression)的媒体自由倡导者穆斯塔法·肖凯(Mostafa Shawky)说。“这跟外表无关。但此事表明，他们并不关心真正的才能。”
Mr. Shawky said the suspensions reinforced a widespread notion in Egypt that only women who meet a certain definition of beauty should work in television journalism. “The fact that it is a woman who is doing all of this just makes it all the worse,” he said.
肖凯说，停职事件强化了一种在埃及颇为流行的观点：女性只有符合某种关于美的定义，才能从事电视新闻工作。“停职决定是由一名女性做出的，这一事实让情况变得更加糟糕，”他说。
Ms. Hegazy could not be reached for comment.
记者无法联系到赫加齐进行置评。