CAIRO — An Egyptian court dropped all remaining criminal charges against former President Hosni Mubarak on Saturday in a sweeping repudiation of the Arab Spring uprising that forced him from power.
开罗——周六，埃及一家法院撤销了针对前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的所有剩余刑事指控，全面否认了迫使穆巴拉克下台的阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)。
The court dismissed murder charges against Mr. Mubarak in the killing of protesters demanding an end to his 30-year rule — charges that once inspired crowds to hang the president’s effigy from the lampposts of Tahrir Square in Cairo and captivated the region. His reviled security chief and a half-dozen top police officials were acquitted.
法院驳回了对穆巴拉克的谋杀指控，即杀害要求结束他30年的统治的抗议者。这些指控曾促使人们把穆巴拉克的雕像挂在开罗解放广场(Tahrir Square)的灯柱上，引起整个地区的关注。他属下引起众怒的安全部门负责人和六名警察也被无罪释放。
The court also acquitted Mr. Mubarak, his two sons and a wealthy business associate of corruption charges; the three others had come to personify the rampant self-dealing of Mr. Mubarak’s era as much as the president himself.
法院还撤销了针对穆巴拉克、他的两个儿子，以及一名富有的商业伙伴的腐败指控；这三人与穆巴拉克一样，都是穆巴拉克时代猖獗的假公济私现象的化身。
If normal legal procedures are followed, Mr. Mubarak could soon go free for the first time since his top generals removed him from power amid a popular revolt in 2011, although it was not clear whether those rules would be adhered to.
按照正常的法律程序，穆巴拉克将很快获得自由，这是自2011年，他在一次民众反抗中被军方领导人赶下台以来的第一次，尽管目前尚不明确有关方面是否会遵守这些规则。
About 1,000 demonstrators gathered around Tahrir Square at night to protest the decision, but heavily armed security forces had closed off the traffic circle. By 9 p.m., the police were firing tear gas and birdshot to drive away the crowds, and by midnight state news media reported that at least one person had been killed and more than 85 were arrested.
夜间，大约1000名示威者聚集在解放广场抗议这个决定，但是全副武装安全部队已经封锁了交通环岛。晚上9点，警方通过发射催泪弹和霰弹来驱散人群；午夜时分，官方媒体报道称，至少有一人死亡，超过85人被捕。
More than five months after the inauguration of a military-backed strongman, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the authorities appeared to calculate that the Egyptian public was so weary of unrest that it had lost a desire for retribution against Mr. Mubarak, or at least that they now had a firm enough grip to suppress any backlash.
在有军方支持的强人总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)就职五个多月后，官方似乎认为，埃及公众已经对动乱局面十分厌烦，所以失去了惩罚穆巴拉克的意愿，至少他们现在对局面的把控十分牢靠，足以镇压任何反抗。
“Today’s verdict indicates a very deliberate decision by the regime to continue on the path of rewriting the history that led to Mubarak’s ouster and closing the file on the Jan. 25 revolution,” said Hossam Bahgat, a journalist and human rights advocate who had cheered on that revolt and is now studying in New York.
“今天的判决结果表明，政府的这个决定是故意所为，意图继续走上这样的道路：重写导致穆巴拉克被驱逐的历史，给1月25日的革命画上句号，”记者、人权倡导者胡萨姆·巴赫贾特(Hossam Bahgat)说。他曾对革命表示欢迎，目前在纽约学习。
The council of generals who took power from Mr. Mubarak had feared a public backlash too much to ever allow the former president’s release, but Mr. Sisi’s government felt no such compunction, Mr. Bahgat said. “They are not afraid. They are perfectly capable of letting him walk free, and they feel no pressure to hold him accountable.”
从穆巴拉克手中夺过权力的将军委员会十分担心公众会表示反抗，不敢批准释放这位前总统。但巴赫贾特说，塞西的政府似乎没有这种担心。“他们不怕。他们显然能让他重获自由，他们也没有任何压力要追究他的责任。”
Mr. Mubarak, 86, who has been held at a military hospital because of frail health, appeared in court on a stretcher in sunglasses, a blue necktie and sweater. He remained stone-faced as the chief judge, Mahmoud Kamel al-Rashidi, read the verdict. Only at the end did he allow himself a smile as his two sons, Alaa and Gamal, hugged and kissed him.
86岁的穆巴拉克因为体弱多病，一直被关在一家军队的医院。他乘担架来到法庭，带着太阳镜，系着一条蓝色领带，穿着毛衣。当审判长马哈茂德·卡迈尔·拉希迪(Mahmoud Kamel al-Rashidi)宣读判决结果时，他仍然面无表情。直到最后，当他的儿子阿莱(Alaa)和贾迈勒(Gamal)拥抱和亲吻他时，才露出了点笑容。
A short time later, Mr. Mubarak was photographed waving to admirers from a hospital balcony. In a telephone interview with a supportive, pro-government talk show host, the former president scoffed at an earlier guilty verdict against him. “I laughed when I heard the first verdict,” he said. He suggested a conspiracy had been behind the 2011 uprising.
没过多久，有人拍到他在医院的阳台上对崇拜者挥手致意。穆巴拉克在接受一名支持他的亲政府脱口秀主持人的电话采访时，对早些时候针对他的有罪判决表示了嘲笑。“听到第一个判决结果时，我笑了，”他说。他表示，2011年的革命背后隐藏着一个阴谋。
“They turned on us,” he said, and when asked if he meant “the Americans,” he replied that he could not explain over the phone. “I can’t tell you if it’s the Americans or who.”
“他们把矛头对准了我们，”他说，当被问到他指的是否是“美国人”时，他回答道，他无法在电话里解释。 “我不能告诉你是美国人，还是其他人。”
Judge Rashidi, who led a panel of three judges, did not elaborate from the bench on their reasoning, pointing instead to a 280-page summary of their 1,340-page explanation of the case.
三名法官组成的合议庭由拉希迪法官领导，他并没有从合议庭角度给出判决的依据，而是提示有一份280页的文件概括了他们的那份1340页的案件阐述。
He insisted that the ruling had “nothing to do with politics.” He acknowledged the “feebleness” and corruption of Mr. Mubarak’s later years in power, and he saluted the rallying cry of the 2011 revolution — bread, freedom and social justice.
他坚持表示，判决结果“与政治无关”。他承认，在穆巴拉克当权后期存在“软弱”和腐败，而且他还对2011年革命的口号——面包，自由和社会正义——表示了敬意。
But at other times he sounded sympathetic to the former president. “To rule for or against him after he has become old will be left to history and the Judge of Judges,” he said.
但是有时候，他听起来又对前总统持同情态度。他说，“他老去之后，要对他进行有利或不利的判决，将交给历史和法官的法官来决定。”
Judge Rashidi did not explain from the bench why he had dismissed the murder charges. Legal analysts said the judge had faulted the way Mr. Mubarak had been added to an existing case. He acquitted Mr. Mubarak and his friend the businessman Hussein Salem of corruption charges involving allegations that they had conspired to sell Egyptian natural gas to Israel at below-market prices. And he acquitted Mr. Mubarak and his sons of charges that Mr. Salem gave them vacation homes on the Red Sea as kickbacks in a land deal. (Mr. Salem fled to Spain in 2011 and was tried in absentia.)
拉希迪法官没有解释合议庭裁决谋杀罪名不成立的理由。法律分析人士称，法官认为把穆巴拉克这样加入一个已有案件是有问题的。他宣判，针对穆巴拉克及其朋友、商人侯赛因·萨利姆(Hussein Salem)的腐败指控不成立。他们曾被指控密谋以低于市场价的价格把埃及的天然气卖给以色列。萨利姆曾在一次土地交易中，给他们提供了几处红海的度假屋作为回扣，这些指控也被拉希迪裁决不成立。（2011年，萨利姆逃到西班牙，并接受了缺席审判。）
In May, Mr. Mubarak was sentenced to three years in prison in a separate corruption case involving lavish, government-funded improvements to his and his sons’ private homes. But he has now spent more than three years in custody on various charges, and under Egyptian law he has thus served the requisite time and could be released.
5月，穆巴拉克由于涉嫌使用公款对他和儿子的私人住宅进行大规模修缮而被判刑三年。但是，他目前已经因为各种指控而被拘禁了三年多；所以，根据埃及法律，他刑期已满，可以获释出狱了。
Egypt’s public prosecutor said Saturday that he would appeal the new decision.
埃及的检察官周六表示，他将对这项新决定提起上诉。
Sayid Abdel Latif, whose son Mohamed was a demonstrator killed by police in the uprising, said he had given up hope for justice. “Is there anyone who would put himself on trial? Mubarak’s regime is still in place,” he said.
赛义德·阿卜杜勒·拉蒂夫(Sayid Abdel Latif)的儿子穆罕默德是一名示威者，在起义活动中被警方杀害。他说，他对正义已不抱任何希望，“还有任何人会让他接受审判吗？穆巴拉克的政权仍然在那里。”
“The January revolution is over; they ended it,” he said. “We thought Sisi would bring us our rights, but he is one of them.”
“1月的革命已经结束了；他们终结了革命，”他说。“我们原本认为塞西能够维护我们的权利，但他只是他们中的一员。”
“Who killed the protesters?” Ms. Ziada asked, suggesting that investigators examine “all sides accused, even those that were maybe not present in today’s case — for example, the Muslim Brotherhood.”
“谁杀害了抗议者？”自由民主学会(Liberal Democracy Institute)会长达莉亚·齐亚达(Dalia Ziada)问道，这位塞西的支持者表示调查人员审查了“被指控的各方，甚至包括那些可能没有出现在今天的案件的人——例如穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)”。
Legal experts said the ultimate outcome of the case had been increasingly clear, in part because of a flawed prosecution.
法律专家说，案件的最终结果已经日益明显，这部分是因为指控存在谬误。
Prosecutors originally appointed by Mr. Mubarak had rushed the charges to court in the months after his ouster to appease the public’s wrath at their former ruler. But the murder charges were difficult to prove because of the many layers in the Egyptian military’s chain of command and the broad latitude for self-defense given to the police. Lawyers for victims often complained that security forces were withholding evidence or refusing to cooperate.
最初由穆巴拉克任命的检察官，为了平息公众对他们之前的统治者的愤怒，在穆巴拉克被驱逐后的数月之内，急忙把相关指控递交给了法院。但是，谋杀指控很难证明，因为埃及军方的指挥系统存在很多层次，警方也拥有很宽泛的自卫权。受害者的律师经常抱怨，安全部队正在隐瞒证据或拒绝合作。
The corruption charges appeared to have been thrown together hastily, without a thorough review of the many other allegations related to Mr. Mubarak’s rule.
腐败指控似乎是匆忙拼凑的，没有对与穆巴拉克的判决相关的许多其他指控进行彻底审查。
Mr. Mubarak first faced the same charges in a trial that ended in 2012, while the transitional council of military generals was still in power. Evidently bowing to political pressure, that judge sentenced Mr. Mubarak to life in prison for the killings of the protesters but simultaneously acknowledged a lack of evidence. He acquitted everyone below Mr. Mubarak in the chain of command within the security forces, and threw out land-related corruption charges on technical grounds and ruled against the gas charges.
穆巴拉克首次面对同样的指控，是在2012年结束的一次审判当中。当时，由军方将领组成的过渡委员会仍在掌权。法官明显由于屈从政治压力，对穆巴拉克判处了终身监禁，罪名是谋杀抗议者，但同时也承认缺乏证据。他对安全部队指挥系统中位居穆巴拉克以下的每个人都做了无罪判决，基于技术原因否决了与土地相关的腐败指控，并否定了与天然气相关的指控。