AS violence escalates, Egypt’s military is trying to bridge a widening political gap by promising a rapid return to civilian rule. But its gesture of accommodation does not get to the heart of the problem: the presidential system, inherited from the Mubarak era, virtually guarantees a repetition of the tragic events of the past year. A democratic breakthrough requires a more fundamental constitutional redesign, in which the contending sides compete for power in a European-style parliamentary system.
随着暴力升级，埃及军方正试图通过承诺快速回归文职政府统治来弥合日益扩大的政治隔阂。但这一和解姿态没有抓住问题的核心：从穆巴拉克(Mubarak)时代继承的总统制度，几乎肯定将保证过去一年的悲惨事件重演。要想在民主方面取得突破，埃及需要对宪法进行更为根本的修订，使竞争的各方在欧式议会民主制度下争夺权力。
If Egypt had made that switch in the interim Constitution adopted two years ago, or in the revisions that Mohamed Morsi, as president, rammed through last year, it could well have avoided the current upheaval and bloodshed in the first place.
如果埃及在两年前通过临时宪法，或者身为总统的穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)去年强行推动修订宪法时，完成上述转变，埃及很可能避免目前的剧变和流血事件。
The presidency is a winner-take-all office. This may be acceptable in countries like the United States, where well-organized parties contend for the prize. But it is a recipe for tyranny in places like Egypt, where Islamists have powerful organizational advantages in delivering the vote.
埃及的总统职位是一个赢者通吃的职位。这种情况在美国等国家或许是可以接受的，在美国，组织严密的政党对总统职位展开争夺。但在埃及等国家，伊斯兰主义者在拉票方面拥有强大的组织优势，总统职位变成了滋生专制统治的配方。
Because their opponents will have great difficulties uniting behind a single candidate, Islamists could probably parlay their strong minority support into another presidential victory. To prevent that result, it is predictable that the military will suppress the political efforts of the Muslim Brotherhood and similar groups — transforming the next election into a democratic farce. The next president would not only emerge with an illegitimate mandate. His victory would convert the Islamists into undying opponents of the regime.
因为他们的对手很难联合起来支持同一名候选人，伊斯兰主义者很可能有本事充分利用自己强大的少数支持，再次赢得总统选举。可以预见的是，为了避免出现这种结果，军方会压制穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)及类似组织的政治努力，使下一次选举变成一场民主闹剧。下一任总统将会凭借不合法的民意授权产生，他的胜利会促使伊斯兰主义者不懈对抗政权。
Only a parliamentary system provides a realistic path to a more stable, inclusive future. Even if Islamist parties won a substantial share of the vote, they would not be able to monopolize power.
只有议会制能够提供一个现实路径，让埃及走向一个较为稳定、包容的未来。即使伊斯兰主义政党赢得可观选民的支持，他们也无法独享权力。
Consider the Brotherhood’s best-case scenario: Although millions of Egyptians took part in the street demonstrations that preceded President Morsi’s ouster, the Muslim Brotherhood could still win a quarter of the seats in the parliamentary elections, with the more orthodox Salafists gaining another 15 percent. In contrast, the non-Islamist forces are fractured into a number of different factions, ranging from Christian to social democratic. Although the Brotherhood might well emerge with more seats than any other single party, its non-Islamist opponents might nevertheless cobble together a governing coalition. Even if its opponents failed, the Brotherhood could not form a coalition either, unless it reached out to some secularists for support — especially since the Brotherhood could not count on the Salafists to always back it.
想想穆兄会的最佳情形：虽然数百万埃及人走上街头举行示威，最终导致穆尔西总统被罢黜，但穆兄会仍能在议会选举中赢得四分之一的席位，更为原教旨主义的萨拉菲派(Salafists)会获得另外15%的席位。相比之下，非伊斯兰主义势力分裂为多个不同的派别，从基督徒到社会民主党。虽然穆兄会赢得的席位很可能会多于其他政党，但其非伊斯兰主义对手可能拼凑起一个执政联盟。即使它的对手失败了，穆兄会也无法组成一个联盟，除非穆兄会寻求某些世俗政党的支持，尤其是因为穆兄会无法指望萨拉菲派总是支持他们。
Under either scenario, Islamists would remain a significant factor in the political game, as they deserve to be in a democracy; their influence would undercut the arguments of religious zealots who claim that democracy is a sham.
在这两种情况下，伊斯兰主义者都仍将是政坛的一支重要力量，这也是他们在一个民主体制中应有的地位；他们的影响力会削弱宗教狂热分子有关民主是骗局的的论调。
But this need for cooperation across the religious-secular divide wouldn’t be met under any presidential scenario. Once the military assures the election of an acceptable president, Islamists would probably walk out of the legislature. Even if they remained, they would predictably use their parliamentary platform to denounce Mr. Morsi’s replacement as illegitimate. If they tried to block legislation, the new president could push through his program without their support by greasing the wheels with political patronage and outright corruption. If that failed, he could make aggressive use of his executive powers — generating cycles of alienation that would, over time, undermine the very ideal of democracy.
但这种跨越宗教与世俗界线的合作需要，在任何总统制度下都是无法满足的。一旦军方确保选举出一名可以接受的总统，伊斯兰主义者很可能会退出立法机构。即使他们留下，不出所料，他们会利用议会这个平台谴责穆尔西的接替者是不合法的领导人。如果他们设法阻挠立法，新任总统在得不到他们支持的情况下，可以通过提供政治好处，甚至付诸腐败手段推行自己的方案。如果这些举措未能奏效，他可以激进地动用自己的行政权力，从而形成越来越“谈不拢”的恶性循环，随着时间的推移，这将侵蚀民主制度的根基。
Parliamentary government is no cure-all, but a good design can remedy the most serious pathologies. Some systems, like the Italian, require a government to fall whenever a majority of representatives votes “no confidence” — leading to notorious episodes of instability. Others, like the German system, keep the old government in power until the new majority can actually agree on a replacement. That is by far the better approach for Egypt. While momentary majorities may say no to government initiatives, they should show that they have the sustained support of Parliament as a body before they can establish themselves in power.
议会制政体不是万能药，但却是一种能够治疗最严重病症的良好模式，根据意大利等国家的制度，大多数议员支持“不信任”投票时，政府就需要下台，意大利因此出名地陷入一段又一段不稳定期。根据德国等其他国家的制度，政府能够保持执政地位，直到新的多数派实际上能够商定一个接替者。对埃及来说，这是好得多的方法。虽然暂时的多数派可能会否决政府的计划，但在他们掌权之前，他们必须表明自己作为一个派别具有议会的持续支持。
Egypt’s future will depend on the statesmanship of its leaders and the effectiveness of its policies. But a decisive move in the direction of a well-designed parliamentary democracy would create a constitutional order that encourages democrats of all persuasions to reach out to one another.
埃及的未来将取决于该国领导人的政治水平及其政策的有效性。但迈向精心设计的议会民主制的决定性步骤，会营造一个宪法秩序，鼓励各个派别的民主信奉者相互接触，结盟。
The military’s current transition plan doesn’t contemplate such a breakthrough. But it doesn’t preclude it either. The “constitutional declaration” issued by the provisional president, Adli Mansour, establishes a committee of 10 jurists to propose constitutional amendments that will set the stage for a new round of elections. Before these proposals are presented to the voters in a referendum, they must be vetted by a 50-person committee appointed by social and governmental institutions, as well as by the provisional government.
军方目前的过渡计划没有纳入此类突破，但也没有排除这种可能。临时总统阿德里·曼苏尔(Adli Mansour)颁布“宪法声明”(constitutional declaration)，成立了一个由10名法官组成的委员会，以提出宪法修正案，为新一轮选举奠定基础。宪法修正案在接受公投前，必须经过一个50人的委员会（由社会及政府机构指定成员）及临时政府的审查。
The timeline set by the military invites discussion of the fundamental issue. It schedules the new amendments to go before the people in about three months, followed within two more months by parliamentary elections. It then provides for the new parliament to call for presidential elections during the first week of its session. Given this sequence, reformers can simply argue for the elimination of the final stage in the process, demanding that the military turn over power to civilians once a governing coalition gains the support of a parliamentary majority.
按照军方设定的时间表，各方将对这一根本问题展开讨论。根据计划，新修正案大约会在三个月后公诸于众，议会选举将在接下来的两个月内举行。然后，按照计划，新议会要在开会的第一周决定举行总统选举。考虑到这个顺序，改革者只需主张取消该过程的最后一环，即一旦执政联盟获得议会多数，就可以要求军方将政权移交文职政府。
In making this move, the protagonists would not simply be aping European models. They would be taking sides in a vibrant debate within the Islamic world. When Turks mobilized in protest against their government last month, one of their larger grievances was Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s effort to replace Turkey’s system of parliamentary government, through a constitutional amendment that would allow him to gain direct election as a powerful president.
迈出这一步意味着，支持者不只是在照搬欧洲模式，而是在伊斯兰世界内部的活跃辩论中表明态度。当土耳其人上月动员起来，举行针对该国政府的抗议活动时，他们的主要不满之一是，总理雷杰普•塔伊普•埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)推动修宪，目的是取代土耳其的议会制政体，让他自己能够通过直接选举成为权力强大的总统。
The demonstrators rightly saw this as a move by Mr. Erdogan to consolidate his power, and their mass opposition may well have put an end to his authoritarian initiative.
示威者正确地认为埃尔多安此举意在“抓权”，他们的大规模抗议很可能终结了他的威权统治计划。
The question now is whether Egyptians will join in this broader popular movement to repudiate presidentialism, before it dooms their country’s great experiment in democracy.
现在的问题是，埃及人是否会加入这场更广泛的民众运动，抢在总统制导致埃及伟大的民主实验失败之前，取缔总统制。