NAIROBI, Kenya — The Ethiopian marathoner who flashed an antigovernment gesture as he crossed the finish line in second place at the Rio Olympics will not go home.
肯尼亚内罗毕——里约奥运会马拉松赛上，第二个冲过终点线的那名埃塞俄比亚选手将不会回国。冲向终点时，他做了一个反政府的手势。
The runner, Feyisa Lilesa, will not fly back to Ethiopia on Tuesday with the rest of his team, his agent said, choosing instead to remain in Brazil with his immigration status unclear.
该选手名为费伊萨·利莱萨(Feyisa Lilesa)，他的经纪人表示，他不会在周二同队里的其他人一起，搭乘飞机返回埃塞俄比亚，而是选择在移民身份尚不确定的情况下留在巴西。
“He didn’t plan at all for this,” said Mr. Lilesa’s agent, Federico Rosa, speaking by telephone from Brescia, Italy. "He doesn’t want to go to Ethiopia, he wants to go to another country. The U.S. would be very good but right now we just don’t know where he’s going to go. He was very happy after winning but also a bit confused.”
“这根本不是他计划好的，”利莱萨的经纪人费德里科·罗萨(Federico Rosa)在意大利布雷西亚接受电话采访时说。“他不想回埃塞俄比亚，想去其他国家。美国会是非常好的选择，但现在我们根本不知道他会去哪里。比赛赢了以后他非常高兴，但也有点困惑。”
By raising his arms and crossing them in an X in front of his face as he crossed the finish line Sunday, Mr. Lilesa, 26, has crossed the Ethiopian government, one of the most repressive in Africa.
上周日冲向终点线时，现年26岁的利莱萨举起双臂，并在眼前交叉呈X状。这个举动触怒了埃塞俄比亚政府，后者是非洲最专制的政府之一。
His gesture, which he repeated during an award ceremony on Sunday after the race, was the most visible in a growing wave of protests in recent months against Ethiopia’s government. This unusual burst of protests has erupted across Ethiopia, especially in Oromia, the region from which Mr. Lilesa hails, and where the gesture of raised arms crossed in front of one’s face has become a sign of defiance.
周日当天，在比赛结束后的颁奖仪式上，他重复了这个动作。在埃塞俄比亚最近几个月日渐高涨的反政府抗议浪潮中，这个动作已经成为一种标志。在埃塞俄比亚全境，抗议呈现出不同寻常的爆发之势，特别是在利莱萨的家乡奥罗米亚地区。在那里，举起双臂并在眼前交叉成了一个表示反抗的姿势。
Tens of thousands of protesters have been jailed and hundreds have been killed, according to Human Rights Watch. Mr. Lilesa said in interviews after his race that he believed that if he were to return home, he, too, would be punished. The Ethiopian government has said he has nothing to worry about and that he would be treated like a hero upon his return.
据人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称，埃塞俄比亚国内数以万计的抗议者被关押，数以百计的人们被杀。利莱萨在比赛结束后的多场采访中认为，如果回国的话，他也会受到惩罚。埃塞俄比亚政府则称他没什么可担心的，并表示他一回去便会受到英雄般的待遇。
Mr. Rosa said that Mr. Lilesa was a serious young man who “doesn’t like to play games.”
罗萨称利莱萨是一个严肃的年轻人，“不喜欢玩游戏”。
Some sports analysts have speculated that Mr. Lilesa, who finished the Olympic marathon in 2:09:54, and has one of the 50 fastest times in history, might chose to run for another country, such as Bahrain or Qatar. The Gulf states have wooed many other African-born athletes with promises of large pay days if they win international competitions.
利莱萨的奥运会马拉松成绩是2小时9分54秒，名列史上前50。一些体育分析人士猜测，他也许会选择去另一个国家，比如巴林或卡塔尔。海湾国家已经争取到了很多出生在非洲的运动员。它们许诺，这些运动员如果赢得国际赛事，便会获得巨额奖励。
Mr. Rosa said that Mr. Lilesa, who won the Tokyo marathon this year and has a contract with Nike, did not make his protest in an effort to cash in.
罗萨表示，利莱萨抗议不是为了钱。利莱萨曾在今年的东京马拉松上夺冠，并和耐克(Nike)签了一份合同。
“He didn’t plan at all to go to another country,” Mr. Rosa said. “I don’t know even when he decided to do this. He didn’t say anything to me about it. I was surprised. And you don’t do something like this for money. He did this to defend his country.”
“他之前根本没打算去其他国家，”罗萨说。“我甚至都不知道他是什么时候决定这么做的。他没和我透露过有关此事的任何消息。我也大吃一惊。人们不会为了钱做这种事情。他这么做是为了保卫自己的国家。”
In an interview with journalists Sunday in Rio after his race, Mr. Lilesa said he did not discuss his protest beforehand with his agent, coaches, teammates or his family. His wife and two children remain in Ethiopia.
周日比赛结束后在里约接受记者的采访时，利莱萨说自己事先未同经纪人、教练、队友或家人谈论过自己的抗议。他的妻子和两个孩子仍在埃塞俄比亚。
If Mr. Lilesa wants to apply for asylum in the United States, it would be difficult to do that while in Brazil. He might first have to get asylum in Brazil and then apply to the American authorities for so-called humanitarian parole. Under that program, which is used sparingly, often for people in danger, Mr. Lilesa would be allowed to travel to the United States and stay temporarily. Once on American soil, he could apply for political asylum.
如果利莱萨想申请在美国避难，在巴西申请会比较困难。他首先可能得获准在巴西避难，然后再向美国当局申请所谓的人道主义特许入境。该计划很少启用，通常是针对处境危险的人。通过该计划，利莱萨将能够前往美国并暂时居留。一旦踏上美国的领土，他便可申请政治避难。
Mr. Lilesa has became a sensation on social media. As of Tuesday night, nearly $100,000 had been raised for him via a crowdsourcing website. “We assure you all the money collected will go to support this Oromo/Ethiopian hero,” the site said.
利莱萨已经在社交媒体上引起了轰动。截至周二晚上，网友已通过一个众包网站为他筹集了近10万美元（约合67万元人民币）。“我们向你保证，筹集到的所有资金都将用于支持这位奥罗莫/埃塞俄比亚英雄，”该网站说。