CAIRO — When Egypt’s first freely elected president, Mohamed Morsi, named General Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi defense minister, the officer pledged to keep the military out of politics and make way for civilian democracy.
开罗——当年，埃及首位自由选举产生的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)任命阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)为国防部长时，这名军官誓言会让军队置身政治之外，并为平民民主让路。
A year later, General Sisi ousted Mr. Morsi, insisting the military was answering the people’s call to secure “their revolution.” Just three weeks later, he once again said he was turning to the people when he urged them to take to the streets to give him a personal “mandate” to crush Mr. Morsi’s base of support in the Muslim Brotherhood.
一年后，塞西上将推翻了穆尔西，并坚称军队是在回应民众的呼声，保卫“他们的革命”。仅仅三周后，塞西再次表示，他向民众寻求支持，呼吁民众走上街头，“授权”自己摧毁穆尔西在穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的根基。
Then on Monday, Field Marshal Sisi — he added the title the same day — took the first formal step to become Egypt’s next president, insisting he was yielding once again to “the free choice of the masses” and “the call of duty.” With that, he paved the way for Egypt to return to the kind of military-backed governance that was supposed to end with the Arab Spring of 2011.
然后在本周一，陆军元帅塞西——“元帅”头衔也是他同一天加封的——正式迈出了成为埃及下任总统的第一步，他还坚称这次同样是听从了“群众的自由选择”和“使命的感召”。就这样，塞西为埃及重新回到军方支持的施政体制扫清了道路，而这种体制本该随着2011年的阿拉伯之春而终结。
In his two years in public life as defense minister and then de facto ruler, Field Marshal Sisi has combined the cunning of a spymaster with the touch of a born politician to develop an extraordinary combination of power and popularity not seen here since Col. Gamal Abdel Nasser ended the British-backed monarchy six decades ago.
塞西先是担任国防部长，后来又成为事实上的统治者，在其作为公众人物的两年时间里，陆军元帅塞西将间谍组织主脑的狡猾和天生的政治人物气质结合起来，逐步把权力和民望集于一身，自贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔上校(Gamal Abdel Nasser)在60年前推翻英国支持的王室以来，还没有哪个埃及统治者能做到这一点。
But by moving to formally take the reins as head of state, Field Marshal Sisi is taking on a far greater and riskier challenge. Promoted by the state and private news media as a national savior, Field Marshal Sisi will have to manage an increasingly unruly domestic population, including an elite expecting a full restoration of its privileges; generals who may see him as only the first among equals; a broad section of the public that still feels empowered to protest; at least hundreds of thousands of Morsi supporters who openly reject the new government; and a terrorist insurgency determined to thwart any hope of stability.
然而，准备正式担任国家元首执掌政权之时，塞西将面临的挑战和风险也将大大超出以往。被官媒和非官方媒体宣传成国家拯救者的塞西，必须要学会应对越来越难以驾驭的国内民众，该国的精英群体希望全面恢复其特权，而一些军方将领或许会认为可以与他平起平坐，很多民众仍感觉被赋予了权利，可以通过抗议表达不满，至少会有数十万名穆尔西的支持者公开反对新政府，而恐怖分子的活动则决意摧毁任何稳定的希望。
“I think the economy eventually will be the undoing of anyone in that position, because all the same issues that led to the 2011 uprising are still there — the youth unemployment, their marginalization from politics, the overly bloated Civil Service, the unsustainable food and energy subsidies,” said Samer S. Shehata, a University of Oklahoma political scientist.
“我认为无论谁登上那个位子，最终都会因经济下台，因为导致2011年起义的所有原因都还在——年轻人找到不工作、在政治体系中被边缘化，公共服务部门臃肿不堪、食品和能源补贴难以为继，”俄克拉荷马大学(University of Oklahoma)的政治学家萨米尔·S·谢哈塔(Samer S. Shehata)说。
Now the continuing protests and violence have squashed any hope of a swift recovery of the crucial tourism sector, he said, and “no one has the will required to take the necessary and painful steps required to move the country forward.”
而现在，由于示威抗议和暴力冲突不断，至关重要的旅游业迅速复苏的希望破灭了。谢哈塔说，“没人有足够的决心采取必要但艰难的措施，推动这个国家前行。”
Field Marshal Sisi’s backers argue that his status as a charismatic national hero will enable him to break the logjam. “Those who love you will swallow bricks for you and your enemies would wish you make a mistake,” Ahmed El Nagar, an Egyptian economist, declared in a recent television interview about the prospect of a Sisi presidency, quoting an Egyptian proverb. “No matter how bitter the prescription of reforming the economy is, if it comes from someone the people love, they will endure it.”
塞西的支持者则表示，作为一名有魅力的国家英雄，塞西能够打破僵局。“爱戴你的人会愿意为你吞下砖头，而你的敌人则希望你会犯错，”埃及经济学家艾哈迈德·纳加尔(Ahmed El Nagar)最近在接受电视采访时，引用了一句埃及俗语，评论塞西可能的总统任期。他说，“无论为经济改革开出的药方有多苦，只要是人民爱戴的人提出的，他们会忍耐。”
But Khaled Salah, editor of Youm el-Saba, a popular pro-Sisi newspaper, said that expectations were the problem. “ ‘Let Sisi solve it’ — this idea is most dangerous in the public now,” Mr. Salah said. “The very big dreams and expectations won’t work.”
但支持塞西而且很受欢迎的报纸《第七日报》(Youm el-Saba)的主编哈立德·萨拉赫(Khaled Salah)表示，这种期待就是问题所在。“‘让塞西解决’——目前，公众的这种想法最危险，”萨拉赫说。“宏大的梦想和期待不会起作用。”
Field Marshal Sisi has given almost no indications of what policies or platform he might pursue as president. The most notable characteristic of his six months as Egypt’s de facto ruler since the takeover has been the often lethal and ruthless crackdown on the Brotherhood and, increasingly, liberal dissenters as well.
塞西几乎没有阐述过担任总统后，可能采取什么政策或纲领。在塞西接管政府，实质上成为统治者的六个月里，最显著的特征就是时常对穆兄会进行严酷致命的打压，这种打压也越来越多地延伸到了自由派异见人士身上。
But the nearly universal expectation that he would run for president was confirmed Monday when he presided over a meeting of his top generals to bless his candidacy. In a statement, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces called his presidential campaign “an onus and an obligation,” and said that Field Marshall Sisi considered it “a call that demands compliance.”
外界普遍预测塞西将参加总统竞选，这一预测在周一得到了证实。当天，塞西为了在参选后获得支持，主持了一场高级将领的会议。最高军事委员会(Supreme Council of the Armed Forces)在一份声明中称，塞西参加总统竞选“既是责任，也是义务”，并表示塞西认为这是“一个应当顺应的召唤”。
Although at least two other candidates in the 2012 presidential elections have left open the possibility of running, few believe they might stop Field Marshal Sisi from becoming Egypt’s sixth president and its fifth from the ranks of the military.
虽然至少有两名参与了2012年总统竞选的候选人可能会参加选举，但很少有人认为他们能阻止塞西成为埃及的第六位总统——第五位来自军方的总统。
Field Marshal Sisi has had harsh words for the United States over the Obama administration’s criticism of his removal of Mr. Morsi and the crackdown on his Islamist supporters. “You left the Egyptians. You turned your back on the Egyptians, and they won’t forget that,” he said in an interview with The Washington Post in August. “Now you want to continue turning your backs on Egyptians?”
奥巴马政府批评塞西推翻穆尔西，打压其伊斯兰派支持者的行为，塞西对此发表了刺耳的言论。“你们遗弃了埃及人。你们拒绝帮助埃及人，他们不会忘记这一点，”塞西去年8月在接受《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)采访时说。“现在你们还想继续无视埃及人吗？”
But he has close ties with his Western military counterparts. He trained at military colleges in Britain and the United States, and as chief of military intelligence was a key conduit for communications between Egyptian and Israeli military leaders.
但塞西与西方国家的军队将领关系密切。他曾在英国和美国的军事院校接受过训练。作为军事情报局局长，塞西是埃及和以色列军方领导人之间重要的沟通渠道。
As president, Field Marshal Sisi will have to manage a far more complicated set of demands than he did as the commanding officer in a period of crisis, and more complicated than the demands on previous presidents as well. The tumult of the revolt has highlighted the failings of a system in which each institution of government — like the military, the police and the judiciary — operates quasi-independently.
作为总统，与在危机期间担任指挥官相比，塞西将需要面临一系列远更复杂的考验，其艰巨程度超过以往历任总统面对的挑战。叛乱活动引发的骚乱突显了这个体制的弊端，在这个体制当中，军方、警方及司法部门等每一个政府部门都是在近乎独立地运行。
“It is a society in complete mobilization mode, totally restive,” said Mona El-Ghobashy, a political scientist at Barnard. “It is not the monarchical presidency that Nasser created and Sadat and Mubarak inherited. Sisi faces an entirely different set up than the autopilot Mubarak was on.”
“这是一个被完全动员起来的社会，极端不稳定，”巴纳德学院(Barnard College)政治学家莫娜·古巴什(Mona El-Ghobashy)说。“这不是由纳赛尔创造、萨达特和穆巴拉克继承的君主式的总统宝座。穆巴拉克任内仿佛打开了自动导航，但塞西面临着一种完全不同的驾驶模式。”