CAIRO — Battling Palestinian militants in Gaza two years ago, Israel found itself pressed from all sides by unfriendly Arab neighbors to end the fighting.
开罗——两年前在与加沙地带的巴勒斯坦武装分子作战时，以色列发现压力来自四面八方，其并不友善的阿拉伯邻国都在迫使它停战。
Not this time.
但这次没有。
After the military ouster of the Islamist government in Cairo last year, Egypt has led a new coalition of Arab states — including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jordan — that has effectively lined up with Israel in its fight against Hamas, the Islamist movement that controls the Gaza Strip. That, in turn, may have contributed to the failure of the antagonists to reach a negotiated cease-fire even after more than three weeks of bloodshed.
去年开罗的伊斯兰派政府被军方推翻之后，阿拉伯国家中形成了一个以埃及为首的新联盟，在以色列与控制加沙地带的伊斯兰主义运动哈马斯(Hamas)之间的战斗中，实际上站在了以色列一边。这个联盟中包括沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国，以及约旦。在超过三周的血腥冲突之后，交战双方仍未能通过谈判达成停火，或许与此有关。
“The Arab states’ loathing and fear of political Islam is so strong that it outweighs their allergy to Benjamin Netanyahu,” the prime minister of Israel, said Aaron David Miller, a scholar at the Wilson Center in Washington and a former Middle East negotiator under several presidents. “I have never seen a situation like it, where you have so many Arab states acquiescing in the death and destruction in Gaza and the pummeling of Hamas. The silence is deafening.”
华盛顿威尔逊中心(Wilson Center)学者阿龙·戴维·米勒(Aaron David Miller)曾在多届美国总统任内担任中东问题谈判代表。他表示，“这些阿拉伯国家对于政治化伊斯兰有太强的憎恶，以至于超出了他们对以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)的反感。”米勒还说，“我从来没有见到过这种局面，有这么多阿拉伯国家默许加沙地带发生的杀戮和破坏，以及哈马斯受到的打击。这种沉默令人震惊。”
Although Egypt is traditionally the key go-between in any talks with Hamas — deemed a terrorist group by the United States and Israel — the government in Cairo this time surprised Hamas by publicly proposing a cease-fire agreement that met most of Israel’s demands and none by the Palestinian group. Hamas was tarred as intransigent when it immediately rejected it, and Cairo has continued to insist that its proposal remains the starting point for any further discussions.
在与哈马斯开展的任何谈判中，埃及传统上一直都是关键的中间人，因为美国和以色列认为哈马斯是恐怖组织。然而这一次，开罗的政府却出乎哈马斯意料，公开提出一项满足以色列的多数要求，无视哈马斯诉求的停火协议。哈马斯立即回绝这项协议时，被形容为顽固不化。而开罗在继续坚持，它的提议是任何进一步谈判的出发点。
But as commentators sympathetic to the Palestinians slammed the proposal as a ruse to embarrass Hamas, Egypt’s Arab allies praised it. King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia called President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt the next day to commend it, Mr. Sisi’s office said, in a statement that cast no blame on Israel but referred only to “the bloodshed of innocent civilians who are paying the price for a military confrontation for which they are not responsible.”
同情巴勒斯坦人的评论人士抨击上述提议是羞辱哈马斯之举，但埃及的阿拉伯盟友却表达了赞扬。塞西的办公室在一则声明中说，沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)第二天致电埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)，称赞了这一提议。声明中并没有批评以色列，只是提到“无辜平民正在为不应由他们负责的军事冲突而付出流血代价”。
“There is clearly a convergence of interests of these various regimes with Israel,” said Khaled Elgindy, a former adviser to Palestinian negotiators who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. In the battle with Hamas, Mr. Elgindy said, the Egyptian fight against the forces of political Islam and the Israeli struggle against Palestinian militants were nearly identical. “Whose proxy war is it?” he asked.
曾为巴勒斯坦谈判代表担任顾问的哈立德·埃尔金迪(Khaled Elgindy)表示，“这些政权的利益，与以色列显然有共同之处。”埃尔金迪现在华盛顿的布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)担任研究员。他说，在与哈马斯的战斗中，埃及对抗政治化伊斯兰势力的努力，与以色列打击巴勒斯坦武装的做法基本上是一致的。他问道，“这是谁的代理战争？”
The dynamic has inverted all expectations of the Arab Spring uprisings. As recently as 18 months ago, most analysts in Israel, Washington and the Palestinian territories expected the popular uprisings to make the Arab governments more responsive to their citizens and therefore more sympathetic to the Palestinians and more hostile to Israel.
这种形势令阿拉伯之春运动以来所有的预期都发生了逆转。仅仅18个月之前，以色列、华盛顿，以及巴勒斯坦地区的多数分析人士都还在预期，民变会让阿拉伯国家的政府更积极地响应公民的诉求，因而对巴勒斯坦人更加同情，也更敌视以色列。
But instead of becoming more isolated, Israel’s government has emerged for the moment as an unexpected beneficiary of the ensuing tumult, now tacitly supported by the leaders of the resurgent conservative order as an ally in their common fight against political Islam.
然而以色列政府非但没有变得更加孤立，还在随后发生的混乱中，出人意料地成为当下的受益者，那些代表再次兴起的保守秩序的领导人物，还在暗地里对以色列给予了支持，认为它在遏制政治化伊斯兰的过程中是一个盟友。
Egyptian officials have directly or implicitly blamed Hamas instead of Israel for Palestinian deaths in the fighting. And the pro-government Egyptian news media have continued to rail against Hamas as a tool of a regional Islamist plot to destabilize Egypt and the region, just as it has since the military ouster of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood one year ago. (Egyptian prosecutors have charged Hamas with instigating violence in Egypt, killing its soldiers and police officers, and even breaking Mr. Morsi and other Brotherhood leaders out of jail during the 2011 uprising.)
埃及官员曾直接或间接地表示，哈马斯而不是以色列，应当为巴勒斯坦人在战斗中的死亡负责。亲政府的埃及新闻媒体也持续抨击哈马斯，是伊斯兰派在地区内谋划破坏埃及，乃至整个地区稳定的工具，就像一年前，出自穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(President Mohamed)被军方罢黜之后哈马斯所做的那样。（埃及检察机关指控哈马斯在埃及实施暴力行动，杀害军警，甚至在2011年的骚乱中帮助穆尔西及穆斯林兄弟会的其他领导人物越狱。）
At the same time, Egypt has infuriated Gazans by continuing its policy of shutting down tunnels for cross-border smuggling into the Gaza Strip and keeping border crossings closed, exacerbating a scarcity of food, water and medical supplies after three weeks of fighting.
与此同时，埃及的一些政策也激怒了加沙人。埃及仍在继续封锁用于向加沙地带走私物品的地下通道，过境点也仍然关闭着，加剧了三周战斗之后，食品、水和医疗用品短缺的局面。
“Sisi is worse then Netanyahu, and the Egyptians are conspiring against us more than the Jews,” said Salhan al-Hirish, a storekeeper in the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahiya. “They finished the Brotherhood in Egypt and now they are going after Hamas.”
“塞西比内塔尼亚胡还糟糕，埃及人搞阴谋害我们，比犹太人还恶劣，”加沙地带北部城镇贝特拉希亚(Beit Lahiya)一家商店的店主萨勒罕·希里什(Salhan al-Hirish)说。“他们在埃及解决了穆兄会，现在又要对付哈马斯。”
For Israeli hawks, the change in the Arab states has been relatively liberating. “The reading here is that, aside from Hamas and Qatar, most of the Arab governments are either indifferent or willing to follow the leadership of Egypt,” said Martin Kramer, president of Shalem College in Jerusalem and an American-Israeli scholar of Islamist and Arab politics. “No one in the Arab world is going to the Americans and telling them, ‘stop it now'  ” as Saudi Arabia did, for example, in response to earlier Israeli crackdowns on the Palestinians, he said. “That gives the Israelis leeway.”
阿拉伯国家的转变，让以色列的鹰派放开了手脚。“这里的解读是，除了哈马斯和卡塔尔，多数阿拉伯国家的政府要么无动于衷，要么愿意跟随埃及的脚步，”耶路撒冷沙勒姆学院(Shalem College)院长、研究伊斯兰派和阿拉伯政治的美籍以色列人马丁·克莱默(Martin Kramer)说。他说，阿拉伯世界没有人会像早前以色列打击巴勒斯坦时，沙特阿拉伯所做的那样，“跑去跟美国人说，‘停下来’。这就给以色列提供了活动空间。”