LONDON — In Davos, Secretary of State John Kerry talked for a long time about Iran. He talked for a long time about Syria. He talked for a very long time about Israel-Palestine. And he had nothing to say about Egypt.
伦敦——在达沃斯，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)对伊朗问题长篇大论，对叙利亚问题长篇大论，对以色列和巴勒斯坦问题更是大谈特谈。但对于埃及，他一个字也没有提。
This was a glaring omission. Egypt, home to about a quarter of all Arabs and the fulcrum of the Arab Spring, is in a disastrous state. Tahrir Square, emblem of youthful hope and anti-dictatorial change three years ago, is home now to Egyptians baying for a military hero with the trappings of a new Pharaoh to trample on the “terrorists” of the Muslim Brotherhood.
这是一个明显的缺漏。埃及是阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)的重要阵地，约有四分之一的阿拉伯人住在这个国家，现在它已经变得千疮百孔。三年前，埃及的解放广场(Tahrir Square)象征着年轻的希望和反独裁的变化，现如今，聚集在这里的埃及人却在大声疾呼，让一名有着新法老气质的军界强人去蹂躏穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的“恐怖分子”。
Yet, in a speech devoted to rebutting what he called “this disengagement myth” — the notion that a war-weary United States is retreating from the Middle East — Kerry was silent on a nation that is a United States ally, the recipient of about $1.3 billion a year in military aid (some suspended), and the symbol today of the trashing of American hopes for a more inclusive, tolerant and democratic order in the Middle East.
但是，虽然在达沃斯的这次演讲中，克里的主旨是反驳他称为“撤离的讹传”——即美国变得厌战并开始从中东撤退的说法，但却对埃及一字不提。这个国家是美国的盟友，美国每年为其提供13亿美元的军事援助（部分已暂停），它象征着美国对中东变得更包容、更大度、更民主的希望如今遭到了抛弃。
The silence was telling. The Obama administration has been all over the place on Egypt, sticking briefly with Hosni Mubarak, then siding with his ouster, then working hard to establish productive relations with the Muslim Brotherhood and its democratically elected president, Mohamed Morsi, then backing the military coup that removed Morsi six months ago (without calling it a coup) and finally arguing, in the words of Kerry last August, that the military headed by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi was “restoring democracy.”
沉默很能说明问题。奥巴马政府曾经到处插手埃及事务：它短暂地支持过胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)，然后转而支持罢黜他，之后努力与穆兄会及其民选总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)建立关系，接着又支持了导致穆尔西六个月前下台的军事政变（美国没有把它称为政变），最后，按照克里去年8月的说法，美国声称阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)为首的军方是在“恢复民主”。
This “restoration” has in fact involved a fierce crackdown on the Brotherhood, named a terrorist organization on Dec. 25, and on anyone not bowing to Sisi, whose brutal new order has left well over 1,000 people dead. It has involved the rapid adoption of a Constitution drafted by a 50-member committee including only two representatives of Islamist parties, so providing a mirror image of the problems with Morsi’s Islamist-dominated drafting process.
这种“恢复”实际上涉及了对12月25日被定性为恐怖组织的穆兄会进行严厉打击，对任何不屈从于塞西的人进行严厉打击，塞西的残暴新秩序已经导致逾1000人丧生。它还涉及迅速采用一部由50名成员组成的委员会起草的宪法，其中只有两名成员来自伊斯兰政党代表，所以，它就像是穆尔西时期伊斯兰主义者主导的起草过程的倒影。
The Constitution won the approval this month of 98.1 percent of voters, a back-to-the-future number recalling Saddam Hussein’s “elections.” In fact this was 98.1 percent of the mere 38.6 percent of Egyptians who voted: Most Egyptians are either cowed in fear (the Brotherhood) or despairing (the Twitter-generation youth who ignited the Tahrir revolution) or reduced to apathy: So much for inclusiveness.
这部宪法本月以98.1%的高支持率获得批准，这个数字让人想起萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的那些“选举”。事实上，仅有38.6%的埃及人参与了投票，其中98.1%投了赞成票，大多数埃及人或者被恐惧吓倒（穆兄会），或者因绝望放弃（“Twitter世代”年轻人，是他们点燃了解放广场的革命），或者只是变得漠不关心：所谓包容性不过如此。
Egypt is the most vivid illustration of the American disengagement Kerry sought to rebut. Saudi and Emirati billions deployed behind Sisi have been more telling than America’s paltry billion, or its training of Egyptian officers, or its pious expressions of backing for an Egypt offering equal rights to all citizens regardless of their gender, faith, ethnicity or political affiliation. America has watched and wavered as the most important Arab society lost its revolution to the familiar, arid juxtaposition of the military and Islamists (all of them now “terrorists” to the baying pro-Sisi crowd.)
埃及就是克里试图反驳的“美国撤离论”的最生动例证。相比于美国区区10亿美元的援助，相比于它对埃及官员的训练，以及带着虔诚的表情对埃及不论性别、信仰、种族或政治派别地为其所有公民提供平等权利表示支持，沙特和阿联酋为塞西提供的数十亿美元支持显然更具说服力。在最重要的阿拉伯社会，当革命落败于军方和伊斯兰主义者（对于高声叫嚷的亲塞西群体来说，这些人现在都成了“恐怖分子”）令人熟悉的、枯燥无趣的斗争时，美国却一直在观望和犹豫。
This Egyptian debacle is a significant strategic failure for the United States, and of course, like red lines that proved not to be so red in Syria, it has sent a message of American retreat. It seems inevitable that Sisi will now run for president and win with some back-to-the-future number. If he does not run whoever does will be no more than his puppet.
埃及的崩溃是美国的一大战略失败，就像在叙利亚的“红线”也不是那么红一样，它显然也发出了美国在撤退的讯息。塞西会参加总统竞选，并以萨达姆式的高支持率获选，现在似乎已成定局。即便他不这么做，上台的也会是他的傀儡。
David Kirkpatrick, my colleague in Cairo, said it all in this brilliant, depressing lead: “Thousands of Egyptians celebrated the third anniversary of their revolt against autocracy on Saturday by holding a rally for the military leader who ousted the country’s first democratically elected president.”
我在开罗的同事大卫·柯克帕特里克(David Kirkpatrick)用一个精彩而令人沮丧地句子概括了这一切：“周六，成千上万的埃及人通过为一位军事领袖举行集会的方式，庆祝了反专制活动的三周年纪念日，这位军事领袖罢黜了该国的第一位民选总统。”
Mohamed Soltan, a 26-year-old American graduate of Ohio State University whose Egyptian father belongs to the Brotherhood and who was detained in Cairo in August, is one victim of that military leader. He wrote a devastating letter to President Obama, recently made public by his family. Soltan sits in a “packed underground cell,” being operated on for gunshot wounds without anesthetic by a doctor who is a cellmate wielding pliers, wondering if “today is going to be the day Americanness counts” and “the Egyptian authorities will have no choice but to treat me like a human being.”
穆罕默德·索乌坦(Mohamed Soltan)的父亲就是这名军事领袖的受害者之一。索乌坦是一名26岁的美国人，毕业于俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)，去年八月在开罗遭到拘留，他父亲是埃及人，也是穆兄会成员。他给奥巴马总统写了一封令人沉痛的信，最近他的家人公开了这封信。索乌坦坐在一间“拥挤的地牢”里，在没有麻醉剂的情况下接受枪伤手术，做手术的医生是一个拿着钳子的狱友，他心想“会不会今天就是我的美国人身份发挥作用的日子”，那样“埃及当局将别无选择，必须把我当一个人来对待”。
Soltan is still waiting. As are the many Egyptian people who wanted to move toward a more open society, not back to one of countless political prisoners.
索乌坦仍在等待。很多埃及人也在等待，他们希望走向一个更加开放的社会，而不是回到关押着无数政治犯的社会。
I was in Cairo in early January. Out at the Great Pyramid in Giza there was not one Western tourist. I went for a camel ride out of pity for the many camel owners doing zero business. The tourism industry, once an economic mainstay, is in tatters. It reflects the abject state of a great nation.
1月初我去过开罗。在吉萨的大金字塔(Great Pyramid)外，一个西方游客也没有。眼见很多出租骆驼的小贩没有生意可做，出于同情，我去骑了骆驼。旅游业曾是埃及的经济支柱之一，如今已支离破碎。它反映了一个伟大国家的悲惨现状。
There is plenty of blame to go around — for Obama, for the hapless Morsi, for the paranoid power-grabbing Muslim Brotherhood, for the controlling military. But above all I blame the squabbling Egyptian liberals who fought for Mubarak’s ouster but did not give democracy a chance.
人们责怪很多人——奥巴马，倒霉的穆尔西，偏执多疑、争权夺势的穆兄会，控制欲强的埃及军方。但我最先要责怪的是那些吵吵嚷嚷的埃及自由派，他们为罢黜穆巴拉克而战斗，但却没有给民主一个机会。