CAIRO — The Egyptian police were preparing to move at dawn on Monday to choke off two sit-ins where tens of thousands have gathered to protest the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi, Interior Ministry officials said Sunday night, vowing to gradually press further until the demonstrators dispersed.
开罗——内政部官员周日夜间称，埃及警方正准备在周一黎明采取行动终止两处静坐示威，并宣称会逐渐加大压力，直至抗议者散去。在这两处静坐示威中，成千上万的人聚集在一起，抗议穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)被免职。
The new military-appointed government has promised for more than a week to use all necessary force to clear out the sit-ins, which were established by Mr. Morsi’s Islamist allies in the Muslim Brotherhood upon his ouster nearly six weeks ago. But until now, a combination of external pressure from Western powers and internal dissent from liberal cabinet ministers had appeared to persuade Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, the officer who ordered the takeover, to hold off decisive action.
一周多来，由军方任命的新政府一直承诺会用一切必要的力量清除静坐示威的人群。这两处静坐示威活动是穆尔西在穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)中的伊斯兰派盟友在他被罢黜时组织起来的，现在距离他被免职已经有将近6周了。但到现在为止，来自西方大国的外部压力，以及自由派内阁部长的内部异议，似乎说服了下令接管政府的将领阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)，暂时不要采取果断行动。
It remained possible on Sunday night that the latest pledge to clear out the sit-ins might also fail to materialize. But if it proceeds, human rights advocates said Sunday night, the police action could lead to the loss of dozens of lives, in part because, they say, the Egyptian police are incapable of a gradual escalation — especially if they meet any friction or resistance.
在周日晚上，要终止静坐示威活动的最新承诺，依然有可能无法实现。但人权倡导人士周日晚上表示，一旦开始，警方的行动可能会导致数十人死亡，他们说，这在一定程度上是因为埃及警方无法控制事态逐步升级，尤其是当他们遇到摩擦或抵抗时。
“If the Egyptian police managed to intervene using responsible, proportionate force, it would be the first time,” said Karim Medhat Ennarah, a criminal justice researcher for the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. “I don’t think they have the capacity to do that,” he said, adding that the police killed at least 140 Morsi supporters in mass shootings at smaller demonstrations in the weeks since his ouster. “I will be surprised if it did not start another round of lethal violence.”
“如果埃及警方能做到用负责任的、与示威人群的反应相符的武力进行干涉，也将是破天荒的第一次，”埃及个人权益倡议组织(Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights)的刑事司法研究人员卡里姆·迈扎特·恩纳拉(Karim Medhat Ennarah)说，“我认为他们不具备那么做的能力。”他还补充说，自从穆尔西被免职后，警方在规模比这要小的示威活动中，制造了多起大规模枪杀事件，导致至少140名穆尔西的支持者身亡。“如果警方不会开始另一轮致命的暴力事件，我倒要奇怪了。”
Congressional leaders and Western diplomats have said such a bloody crackdown would provoke a cutoff of the $1.3 billion in annual American military assistance to Egypt. Diplomats say it could also block a $4.8 billion loan package from the International Monetary Fund that the new government calls essential to turning around the economy.
国会领袖和西方外交官表示，类似的血腥镇压会促使美国终止每年提供给埃及的13亿美元（约合80亿元人民币）军事援助。外交官表示，镇压也可能促使国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)停止提供48亿美元的贷款，新政府称这笔贷款对扭转经济至关重要。
Rights advocates also warn that the use of force could increase the chance that Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters around the country would turn to violence in retaliation. The new government has detained many of his top allies on apparently politicized criminal charges, stirring Islamist fears of a return to the old police state.
权力倡导人士也警告称，动用武力可能会增加穆尔西在全国的伊斯兰派支持者诉诸暴力进行报复的可能性。新政府已经以政治意味明显的刑事指控为名，关押了穆尔西的许多高层盟友，引发了伊斯兰派人士对埃及重新变为警察国家的担忧。
Interior Ministry officials said Sunday that they would move in slowly, gradually surrounding the sit-ins to cut off any shipments of food and water. The officials said they would eventually block any entrance to the sit-ins but leave one exit open so that demonstrators could leave at will.
内政部官员周日表示，他们将缓慢采取行动，逐步包围静坐示威人群，以切断食物和水的运送。这些官员称，他们最终会封锁静坐示威场所的所有入口，只留一个出口，这样抗议者便可以自愿离开。
After that, the ministry officials said, the police will gradually step up the use of nonlethal tactics, including tear gas and water cannons. But it was unclear whether the police intended to escalate their pressure over a matter of hours, days or weeks.
内政部官员称，随后，警方将逐步采用非致命性手段，比如催泪瓦斯和高压水炮。但是，目前还不清楚警方打算在几小时、几天还是几周内增大施压力度。
How the police would handle resistance was another question, especially with both sides on edge after the recent deadly clashes. The demonstrators have already erected barricades and stored piles of rocks to throw at attackers. Birdshot pellets and homemade handguns have become increasingly common at Egyptian street protests, including among Islamists. Government officials have accused the Islamists of stockpiling weapons, although both sit-ins appear to be overwhelmingly peaceful.
究竟警方会如何应对反抗又是另一个问题，尤其是在近期发生致命性冲突后，双方都十分紧张的情况下。示威者已经立起路障，并储存了用来投掷袭击者的一堆堆石块。在埃及的街头抗议及伊斯兰主义者当中，霰弹枪和自制手枪开始变得越来越常见。政府官员指责伊斯兰主义者在囤积武器，不过两场静坐抗议似乎都极为和平。
Brotherhood leaders said Sunday that their demonstrations would remain nonviolent even if the police moved in. Gehad el-Haddad, a Brotherhood spokesman, all but dared them to try. “If they try to disperse the sit-ins by force, we will just create a new sit-in, or multiple sit-ins,” he said. “It is the people who make the sit-ins, not the sit-ins that make the cause.”
穆兄会领导人周日称，就算警察开始进场，他们的抗议也会保持非暴力状态。穆兄会发言人格哈德·哈达德(Gehad el-Haddad)似乎认为警方不敢这样做。“如果他们试图用武力来驱散静坐抗议者，我们就要组织一场新的抗议，或者是很多场抗议，”他说。“铸就这场运动的是静坐的那些人，而不是静坐事件本身。”
Brotherhood officials have indicated a willingness to negotiate compromises that could include Mr. Morsi’s swift replacement and a handover of power to others. But Amr Darrag, a Brotherhood leader involved in talks with Western diplomats, insisted that as a starting point, Mr. Morsi, who has been detained in an undisclosed location since his ouster, should be released and reinstated at least temporarily, to give the handover legal legitimacy. Western diplomats said the release of imprisoned Brotherhood leaders could also reassure the Islamists of fair treatment in the future.
穆兄会官员表示愿意通过协商达成妥协，妥协可以包括很快取代穆尔西，并将权力移交给他人。但是与西方外交官会谈的穆兄会领导人阿姆鲁·达拉克(Amr Darrag)坚持认为，作为起点，自从被罢黜后就被扣押在不明地点的穆尔西应该得到释放，而且至少要暂时官复原职，这样权力的移交才具有合法性。西方外交官说，释放被关押穆兄会领导人，也可以让伊斯兰主义者确信，他们将来会受到公平对待。
But officials of the interim government say that Mr. Morsi can never be reinstated, not even for a moment, and that his detention or release is now a matter for the courts to decide. Mr. Morsi is under investigation over crimes related to his escape from political imprisonment during the revolution that ended the rule of President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, including allegations that Mr. Morsi conspired with the Palestinian militant group Hamas in the jailbreak — charges Mr. Darrag called “a bad joke.”
然而，临时政府官员说，穆尔西不可能恢复总统职位，片刻都不行；此外，他是该扣押还是该释放，现在应当由法院来决定。穆尔西目前正在接受调查，他的罪名与在2011年革命期间越狱有关。那场革命结束了前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的统治。穆尔西被指当时与巴勒斯坦武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)共谋越狱。达拉克称这些指控是“一个糟糕的笑话”。
Nabil Fahmy, the interim foreign minister, acknowledged the differences between Mr. ElBaradei and others, contending that the Islamists were using the negotiations as a “tool.” But in an interview on Sunday, Mr. Fahmy said government leaders were unanimous in their belief that “this cannot continue indefinitely.”
临时外交部长纳比尔·法赫米(Nabil Fahmy)承认巴拉迪和其他人存在分歧，他认为伊斯兰主义者正在把谈判当做“工具”。但是在周日的采访中，法赫米说政府领导人一致认为“这种状况不能无限期持续下去”。
“We are taking every step to resolve this through the powers of persuasion rather than the enforcement of the laws,” he said. “But this cannot go on endlessly, because the government needs to move on.”
“我们正在采取所有措施，通过运用说服力，而不是通过执法手段，来解决问题，”他说。“但是这种局面不能无休止地持续下去，因为政府需要继续前进。”