CAIRO — Egyptian authorities detained a team of journalists working for the Al Jazeera English news channel on Sunday, including an Australian journalist and the channel’s Cairo bureau chief, accusing them of broadcasting illegally and meeting with members of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that the Egyptian government classified last week as a terrorist organization.
开罗——埃及警方上周日拘留了半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)英语频道的一个记者组，包括一名澳大利亚籍记者及该电视台开罗分社社长，指控他们从事非法广播并与穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)成员见面，埃及政府上周宣布伊斯兰教团体穆斯林兄弟会为恐怖组织。
The arrests appeared aimed at deterring journalists from speaking with members of the Brotherhood or reporting on the group’s continuing protests. The Interior Ministry accused the journalists of broadcasting “false news” that “damaged national security” from two hotel suites. The authorities also said that the journalists possessed materials that promoted “incitement,” including information about campus strikes by students who supported the Brotherhood.
这次拘留看来是为了阻止记者与穆斯林兄弟会成员交谈或报道该组织持续不断的抗议活动。内政部(Interior Ministry)指控这些记者从两间酒店套房内广播“损害国家安全的不实新闻”。警方还称这些记者拥有宣传“煽动”的材料，包括有关支持穆兄会的学生在校园里抗议的信息。
Al Jazeera said that the journalists included the bureau chief, Mohamed Fadel Fahmy, who had formerly worked for CNN and contributed to The New York Times, as well as Peter Greste, an Australian correspondent for Al Jazeera who won a Peabody award last year while working for the British Broadcasting Corp. in Somalia. Mohamed Fawzy, a cameraman, and another producer were also detained, the network said.
半岛电视台称，被拘留的记者包括分社社长穆罕默德·法德勒·法赫米(Mohamed Fadel Fahmy)，他曾就职于CNN并曾为《纽约时报》撰稿，还包括半岛电视台澳大利亚籍记者皮特·格雷斯特(Peter Greste)，他在索马里为英国广播公司(British Broadcasting Corp.)做的报道获得了去年的“皮博迪”(Peabody)奖。该电视台称，被拘留的还有一名摄像穆罕默德·法齐(Mohamed Fawzy)，以及另一位制片人。
News of the arrests came after Egypt’s interim president, Adly Mansour, said Egypt could hold a presidential election before electing a new Parliament, raising the possibility that the military-backed government was preparing to deviate from the transition plan it unveiled after the ouster of the former president — Mohamed Morsi, a Brotherhood leader — in July. The government has said it would follow that plan, citing it as evidence of its commitment to democracy.
记者被捕的消息出来之前，埃及临时总统阿兹利·曼苏尔(Adly Mansour)宣布，埃及可能在选举新议会之前举行总统选举，这增加了由军队支持的政府正在准备偏离其过渡计划的可能性，该计划是前任总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)7月份罢免之后宣布的，穆尔西是穆兄会的一位领袖。政府曾表示会坚持这一过渡计划，称那是恪守其民主承诺的证明。
Analysts have said that switching the order of the elections could allow Egypt’s leaders to maintain tighter control over their outcome, by allowing the newly elected president to influence the makeup of Parliament.
分析人士称，改变选举的顺序可能会让埃及领导人能更密切地控制选举结果，因为这可以让新选出的总统影响议会的组成。
In the past week, the government has moved forcefully to eliminate the Brotherhood. It banned membership in the group last Wednesday after blaming it for a blast that killed 16 people, even though another unrelated group claimed responsibility.
上周，政府已采取有力措消除穆兄会。上周三，政府把一个致使16人死亡的爆炸事件归咎于穆兄会之后，禁止人们加入该组织，虽然另一个与穆兄会无关的组织宣布为那个事件负责。
Michael Wahid Hanna, a fellow at the Century Foundation in New York, said the government “seized on the moment and the grotesque nature of the attack” to accomplish several goals. While hard-liners in the security services aim to eradicate the Brotherhood, the terrorist designation gives other officials a “rhetorical” tool to stir interest in the coming elections, Mr. Hanna said. It also provides them with a firmer legal basis to detain protesters and further suppress dissent ahead of the vote, he said.
位于纽约的世纪基金会(Century Foundation)学者迈克尔·瓦希德·汉纳(Michael Wahid Hanna)表示，政府“抓住这个机会，利用袭击事件的恶劣性质”实现了几个目标。汉纳说，虽然安全机构中的强硬派旨在铲除穆兄会，但给穆兄会冠上恐怖主义的名称为其他官员在即将举行的选举中激发人们的兴趣制造了一个“修辞”工具。他说，这也给拘留抗议者提供了更坚实的法律基础，从而让官员在选举之前能够进一步压制意见人士。
As the government tries to consolidate power, it has faced an unexpectedly sharp challenge from militant groups. On Sunday, a car bomb explosion outside a military intelligence building north of Cairo wounded at least five people, the third such bombing in less than a week.
随着政府试图巩固权力，它面临着来自激进组织的出乎意料的大力挑战。上周日，一枚汽车炸弹在开罗北部一座军方情报大楼外爆炸，导致至少五人受伤，这是一周内发生的第三起这类爆炸事件。