CAIRO — Twice in the last seven days, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates have secretly launched airstrikes against Islamist-allied militias battling for control of Tripoli, Libya, four senior American officials said, in a major escalation of a regional power struggle set off by Arab Spring revolts.
开罗——四名美国高级官员透露，过去七天，埃及和阿拉伯联合酋长国曾两次发动秘密空袭，对争夺利比亚首都的黎波里控制权的伊斯兰派武装组织进行打击；在由阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)运动引发的地区性权力斗争中，该事件是一个重大升级。
The United States, the officials said, was caught by surprise: Egypt and the Emirates, both close allies and military partners, acted without informing Washington, leaving the Obama administration on the sidelines. Egyptian officials explicitly denied to American diplomats that their military played any role in the operation, the officials said, in what appeared a new blow to already strained relations between Washington and Cairo.
美国官员说，此事完全出乎美国的意料：埃及和阿联酋都是美国的亲密盟友和军事伙伴，但他们没有通知华盛顿就开展了这次行动，把奥巴马政府撇在了一边。这些官员透露，埃及官员向美国外交官明确否认说，埃及军队没有在空袭中扮演任何角色。华盛顿和开罗之间的关系本已有些紧张，空袭行动更是为此雪上加霜。
The strikes in Tripoli are another salvo in a power struggle defined by old-style Arab autocrats battling Islamist movements seeking to overturn the old order. Since the military ouster of the Islamist president in Egypt last year, the new government and its backers in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have launched a campaign across the region — in the news media, in politics and diplomacy, and by arming local proxies — to roll back what they see as an existential threat to their authority posed by Islamist groups like the Muslim Brotherhood.
的黎波里发生的袭击事件，只是一场权力斗争里的又一场战斗。这场斗争的本质是，旧式​​的阿拉伯独裁者，正在对抗试图推翻旧秩序的伊斯兰主义运动。去年，信奉伊斯兰主义的埃及前总统被军方赶下台后，埃及新政府及其在沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋的支持者，在整个地区发动了一场攻势——通过新闻媒体、政治和外交手段，也通过为当地的代理人提供武器——目的是消除他们眼中一个事关生死存亡的威胁。他们认为，像穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)这样的伊斯兰主义组织，对于他们的权威构成了威胁。
Arrayed against them and backing the Islamists are the rival states of Turkey and Qatar.
联合起来反对他们，支持伊斯兰派的，则是敌对国家土耳其和卡塔尔。
American officials said the Egyptians and the Emiratis had teamed up against an Islamist target inside Libya at least once before. In recent months, the officials said, teams of “special forces” operating out of Egypt but possibly composed primarily of Emiratis had also successfully destroyed an Islamist camp near the eastern Libyan city of Derna, an extremist stronghold.
美国官员说，此前埃及和阿联酋就曾联手，对利比亚境内一个伊斯兰派目标至少实行过一次打击。这些官员透露，近几个月来，一些可能主要由阿联酋人组成的“特种部队”小组，从埃及出发开展行动，成功地摧毁了伊斯兰派武装在利比亚东部城市德尔纳附近的一座营地。德尔纳是一个极端主义大本营。
Several officials said in recent days that United States diplomats were fuming about the airstrikes, believing the intervention could further inflame the Libyan conflict as the United Nations and Western powers are seeking to broker a peaceful resolution. Officials said the government of Qatar has already provided weapons and support to the Islamist-aligned forces inside Libya, so the new strikes represent a shift from a battle of proxies to direct involvement. It could also set off an arms race.
一些官员近日表示，美国外交官对这些袭击活动感到愤怒，他们认为这样的干预可能进一步激化利比亚冲突，此时联合国和西方大国正在设法为达成和平的解决方案而开展斡旋。官员们表示，卡塔尔政府已经在为利比亚境内的伊斯兰派势力提供武器和支持，所以这些新的袭击活动，代表了从间接战争向直接干涉的转变。而且这也可能引发军备竞赛。
“We don’t see this as constructive at all,” said one senior American official.
“我们认为这完全没有建设性可言，”一位美国高级官员说。
The strikes have also, so far, proved counterproductive. Islamist-aligned militias fighting for control of Tripoli successfully seized its main airport just hours after they were hit with the second round of strikes.
到目前为止，事实也的确证明这些袭击适得其反。争夺的黎波里控制权的伊斯兰派武装分子，在遭到第二轮空袭几个小时之后，就成功地占领了那里的主要机场。
“In every arena — in Syria, Iraq, Gaza, Libya, even what happened in Egypt — this regional polarization, with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, or U.A.E., on one side and Qatar and Turkey on the other, has proved to be a gigantic impediment to international efforts to resolve any of these crisis,” said Michele Dunne, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former Middle East specialist at the State Department.
“事实表面，在每一个角逐场——叙利亚、伊拉克、加沙、利比亚，甚至是埃及——对于试图解决上述任何危机的国际努力来说，地区内的分化都构成了巨大的障碍，其中沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋在一边，卡塔尔和土耳其在另一边，”米歇尔·邓恩(Michele Dunne)说。他是卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的高级研究员，也是美国国务院前中东问题专家。
Egypt’s role, the American officials said, was to provide bases for the launch of the strikes. The Egyptian president, Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi, and other officials have issued vigorous-sounding but carefully worded public statements denying any direct action by Egyptian forces in Libya.
美国官员说，埃及的角色是为开展袭击提供基地。埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)及其他官员发布的公开声明虽然振振有词，但是措辞谨慎，否认埃及军方在利比亚采取了任何直接行动。
“There are no Egyptian aircraft or forces in Libya, and no Egyptian aircraft participated in military action inside Libya,” Mr. Sisi said on Sunday, the state news agency reported.
“利比亚境内没有埃及飞机或部队，埃及飞机没有参与利比亚境内的军事行动，”塞西上周日表示，埃及国家通讯社报道。
In private, the officials said, the Egyptian denials had been more sweeping.
官员们说，在私下里，埃及否认得更加彻底。
The officials said the U.A.E. — which boasts one of the most effective air forces in the Arab world, thanks to American equipment and training — provided the pilots, warplanes and aerial refueling planes necessary for the fighters to bomb Tripoli out of bases in Egypt. It was unclear if the planes or munitions were American-made.
这些官员透露，作为阿拉伯世界的空军强国（这要归功于美国的装备和培训），阿联酋提供了飞行员、战斗机和空中加油机，从而使战斗机可以从埃及的基地出发，前去轰炸的黎波里。目前还不清楚是这些飞机或弹药是不是美国制造的。
The U.A.E. has not commented directly on the strikes but came close to denying a role. On Monday, an Emirati state newspaper printed a statement from Anwar Gargash, minister of state for foreign affairs, calling any claims about an Emirati role in the attacks “a diversion” from the Libyans’ desire for “stability” and rejection of the Islamists. 
阿联酋并没有直接谈到这些袭击，但近乎否认了参与此事。本周一，阿联酋一家官方报纸刊登了外交国务部长安瓦尔·卡尔卡什(Anwar Gargash)的一份声明，称利比亚民众渴望“稳定”，渴望抗击伊斯兰主义者，而任何宣称阿联酋参与袭击的说法，都是在“转移”公众的视线。
During the uprising against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya three years ago, Qatar and the U.A.E. both played active roles, but each favored different clients among the rebels. While Qatar backed certain Islamists, the U.A.E. favored certain tribal or regional militias, including the militias based in the Western mountain town of Zintan, said Frederic Wehrey, another associate at the Carnegie Institute and a former United States military attaché in Libya.
三年前，在推翻穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)的运动中，卡塔尔和阿联酋都发挥了积极的作用。但它们在叛军中支持了不同的代理人。卡塔尔支持某些伊斯兰主义者，但阿联酋青睐某些部落或地区的武装组织，其中包括以西部山地城市津坦为基地的民兵，卡内基研究院的另一名学者弗雷德里克·韦雷(Frederic Wehrey)说。他曾是美国驻利比亚的一名武官。