The commander of the armed forces asked Egyptians on Wednesday to hold mass demonstrations that would give him a “mandate” to confront violence and terrorism, appealing to one side of Egypt’s sharply divided populace and raising the specter of broader unrest.
周三，埃及军队的最高指挥官要求埃及民众举行大规模抗议活动，以此向他授权，去抗击暴力行为和恐怖主义，他这样做迎合了埃及分歧严重的民众中的一方，因而增加了该国发生更大动荡的可能性。
During a speech to recent military graduates, the commander, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, warned of forces taking the country into a “dark tunnel,” a clear reference to Islamist supporters of the deposed president, Mohamed Morsi, and he asked Egyptians to protest on Friday.
近期，阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)在对军校毕业生发表讲话时警告称，有些势力正在将埃及推向一条“黑暗的隧道”，此话明显指向被罢黜的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的伊斯兰派支持者。此外，他还要求埃及民众于本周五进行抗议。
“I’m asking you to show the world,” he said. “If violence is sought, or terrorism is sought, the military and the police are authorized to confront this.”
“我要你们向世界表明，”他说。“倘若发生暴力事件，或恐怖主义行为，军方和警方有权去应对这些情况。”
The call for mass mobilization thrust the general into the center of Egypt’s contentious politics, raising questions about his ambitions while contradicting the military’s pledges to defer to civilian leaders after removing Mr. Morsi. His appeal also hinted at a broader crackdown against Islamists, whose leaders have already been detained.
塞西上将动员民众的呼吁使他成为了埃及政治争议的中心，人们纷纷开始质疑他的野心，而且他的做法还与军方此前表达的罢黜穆尔西后要听命于文职领导人的承诺产生了矛盾。这种呼吁也暗示，他将进一步打击伊斯兰派分子，目前，他们的领导人已被拘捕。
As the Muslim Brotherhood planned competing protests on Friday, Egyptians faced another threat of bloody street clashes in what has become a long and wearying cycle.
为了表示回应，穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)也准备于周五发起抗议活动。街道上的血腥冲突已经形成了一个漫长而令人厌倦的循环，如今，埃及人很可能会再次面临这种状况。
In a statement, the Brotherhood said the general’s speech amounted to a call for “civil war.”
穆兄会在一份声明中表示，塞西上将的言论相当于呼吁人们发动“内战”。
Michael Wahid Hanna, who studies Egyptian politics at the Century Foundation, a left-leaning policy group, said the speech was “pretty ominous.”
左倾政策组织世纪基金会(Century Foundation)的埃及政治研究员迈克尔·瓦希德·汉纳(Michael Wahid Hanna)说，此番言论是种“不祥之兆”。
“At best this was an irresponsible effort to isolate the Muslim Brotherhood, to gain leverage in whatever negotiations ensue,” he said. “At worst, it will green-light violence at lower levels and potentially provide a mandate to use force to break up the sit-in,” a reference to the Cairo encampment of Mr. Morsi’s supporters.
“从最乐观的情况来看，这是为了孤立穆兄会而采取的不负责任做法，他们希望不管随后进行何种协商，都能获得一定的影响力，”他说。“从最坏的情况来说，这个说法将会放任下面的人采用暴力手段，并授权动用武力来驱散静坐示威者。”这里指的是穆尔西的支持者在开罗进行的静坐抗议。
“Neither of those things is good,” Mr. Hanna added.
汉纳还说，“这都不是什么好事。”
Wednesday’s developments cemented a standoff between the Brotherhood and the military that started after the generals removed Mr. Morsi from power on July 3. Since then, the military has held Mr. Morsi incommunicado in an undisclosed location, ignoring calls from Western allies and the United Nations to release him. An interim government has pressed ahead quickly, securing financial aid and beginning the process of amending the Constitution, while trying to fend off questions about its own legitimacy.
自从军方将领于7月3日罢黜穆尔西之后，穆兄会和军方就一直僵持不下，周三的事态发展又进一步加剧了这种状况。把穆尔西赶下台后，军方就一直关押着他，不让他与外界接触，他们完全不理会西方盟友和联合国(United Nations)释放穆尔西的要求。埃及的临时政府迅速开展工作，获得了财政援助，并且还开始了修宪的过程。但与此同时，这个临时政府也在试图消除人们对其合法性的质疑。
The Brotherhood has adopted an increasingly confrontational stance to support its effort to restore Mr. Morsi to power. The group’s sit-ins have given way to daily marches, many of which have been attacked by shadowy armed groups. Other marches are clearly intended to provoke a response.
穆兄会已经采取了日益激烈的对抗立场，来为穆尔西重新掌权提供支持。该组织已经放弃静坐抗议活动，转而每天进行示威游行，其中很多游行活动遭到了神秘武装组织的袭击。而其他一些示威游行活动的目的显然就是为了挑起回应。
While General Sisi’s speech intensified Islamist fears about the return of a police state, it may well have strengthened the Brotherhood’s hand.
塞西上将的发言加剧了伊斯兰派分子对回归警察国家的担忧，穆兄会很可能会因此得到更多支持。
“The Brotherhood needs the repression to get worse, to effectively make their case to the broader public,” said Shadi Hamid, a researcher at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar who studies the group.
卡塔尔布鲁金斯多哈中心(Brookings Doha Center)的穆兄会研究人员沙迪·哈米德(Shadi Hamid)表示，“穆兄会所需要的是，镇压行动变得更加疯狂，如此一来，他们可以很好地向更多民众证明，自己才是有理的一方。”
Brotherhood leaders quickly seized on the speech as evidence that General Sisi was Egypt’s new dictator, saying that the country had returned to “fascist military rule that confiscates the people’s freedom, sovereignty and dignity.”
穆兄会的领导人迅速抓住机会，称此次演讲证明塞西上将是埃及的新独裁者，埃及已经回归“侵占人民的自由、自主权及尊严的法西斯军事统治”。
“We hold General Sisi completely responsible for any blood that is shed from any Egyptian citizen, as well as for deepening national division,” the group said.
该组织表示，“我们认为塞西上将应该为埃及民众所流的每滴鲜血，以及国家分裂加剧的情况担负全责。”
The arguments between the Islamists and the military, as well as General Sisi’s turn in the spotlight, further sidelined Egypt’s civilian government, which was mostly silent on Wednesday.
伊斯兰主义者与军方之间的争论，以及塞西成为关注焦点的事实，进一步致使埃及的文职政府受到排挤，该政府周三基本处于沉默状态。
A conference on Wednesday that the government billed as an effort at national reconciliation was overshadowed by the speech. It was also boycotted by the very Islamist forces, including the Brotherhood, whose grievances have widened Egypt’s divide.
埃及政府周三召开会议，并宣称此举是为了促使全国和解，但塞西的演讲致使此次会议的受关注程度降低。此次会议还遭到了包括穆兄会在内的伊斯兰派势力的抵制，而正是这些组织的不满加剧了埃及的分裂。
Neither the interim president nor the prime minister spoke publicly about the general’s call for mass protests. On Wednesday evening, a spokesman for the president was quoted in the state newspaper praising the military.
临时总统和总理都没有对塞西上将呼吁进行大规模抗议活动的举动公开表态。周三晚间，埃及官方报纸援引总统发言人的话，称赞军方。
“Egypt started the war on terrorism, and the call of General el-Sisi is to protect the revolution and the state,” said the spokesman, Ahmed Al-Muslimani.
总统发言人艾哈迈德·穆斯利马尼(Ahmed Al-Muslimani)说，“埃及打响了反恐战争，塞西上将的呼吁是为了保护革命，保护国家。”
Hours before General Sisi’s speech, unidentified attackers bombed a police station north of Cairo, raising the specter of a new kind of political violence.
在塞西上将发表演讲前数小时，身份不明的袭击者用炸弹袭击了开罗北部的一个警察局，引发了人们对于新的政治暴力活动的担忧。
Speaking to the military graduates in the coastal city of Alexandria, General Sisi warned Egyptians and the country’s “political forces” of the need to confront such violence.
塞西上将在海滨城市亚历山大对军校毕业生发表演讲时，提醒埃及的民众与“政治势力”，需要对抗此类暴力行为。
“We aren’t going to wait until there’s a big problem and then ask, ‘Why did this happen?’ ” he said.
他说，“我们不会等到出现大问题，然后问，‘为什么会发生这样的事情？’”
The speech, by turns paternal and confrontational, was largely devoted to rebutting criticism that the general had betrayed Mr. Morsi, who promoted him nearly a year ago. General Sisi also insisted that the promised transition to an elected government would not be derailed.
在此次讲话里，塞西时而循循善诱，时而挑衅性十足，其内容主要是为了反驳有关自己背叛穆尔西的批评之声，正是穆尔西在大约一年前提拔了塞西。塞西上将还坚称，他所承诺的向民选政府过渡的计划不会受阻。
“Please never think it could be abandoned, even for a moment,” he said.
他说，“大家不要认为过渡计划可能会被抛在一边，这绝无可能。”