FAYOUM, Egypt — They hide in safe houses on the outskirts of this city, talk only fleetingly on cellphones and avoid the cafes where they used to meet. Heavy scarves obscure their identities when they venture out to join protests.
埃及法尤姆——他们躲在这座城市郊外的藏身之处，通电话时也只是匆匆说两句，并避开那些之前经常碰面的咖啡馆。冒险外出参加抗议时，他们会戴上厚厚的围巾，掩盖自己的身份。
The leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood, now outlawed, have adjusted to life underground, even while hundreds of their fellow members have been arrested in this city since the military deposed President Mohamed Morsi, a Brotherhood leader, and the Egyptian government branded the group a terrorist movement.
如今已被取缔的穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领导人已经适应了地下生活，尽管自军方将穆兄会领导人、总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)赶下台，埃及政府将该组织定性为恐怖主义运动以来，穆兄会已有成百上千名成员在这座城市遭到逮捕。
Yet, rather than crack and disintegrate under the pressure, members say, the group has fallen back on the organizational structure that sustained it for decades as a banned and secretive movement. It is becoming more decentralized, but also more cohesive and rigid, as its members abandon activities like preaching and social work and shift their attention to a virtually singular goal: resistance to the military-backed government.
然而，穆兄会成员称，该组织并没有因压力而分裂瓦解，反而回到了之前的组织结构，而这种结构支持它作为一个被取缔的秘密运动存续了数十年。穆兄会的管理变得更为分散，但却更有凝聚力、更顽强，其成员不再开展讲道和社会工作等活动，转而专注于几乎是其唯一的目标：反抗军方支持的政府。
Their focus, many Brotherhood members say, is a protracted, grinding struggle.
很多穆兄会成员称，他们现在的主要任务是进行一场漫长而艰难的战斗。
“There is a vision of a political confrontation that can go on for years,” said one leader, a 33-year-old architect in Fayoum, an Islamist stronghold. He, along with other members, spoke in a cafe for a time, but changed locations after suspecting the employees were eavesdropping.
“政治对抗可能将持续许多年，”来自伊斯兰派据点法尤姆的33岁的建筑师、一名穆兄会领导人称。他和其他一些成员曾在一间咖啡馆会面，但在怀疑咖啡馆雇员监听他们的谈话后便改变了地点。
“This is our persistence stage,” he said. “We are trying to stand up as long as we can.”
“这是一个需要我们坚持的阶段，”他说，“我们会尽可能地坚持下去。”
The Brotherhood’s endurance so far all but ensures that Egypt will continue to be troubled by civil conflict. And it raises further doubts about the government’s attempts to extinguish a movement that has resisted such efforts since its founding more than 80 years ago and that draws support from hundreds of thousands of members and millions of affiliates and sympathizers throughout the country.
迄今为止，穆兄会的坚韧几乎确保了埃及将继续受到国内冲突的困扰。它还进一步引发了对政府试图消灭这一运动所做努力的怀疑。自80多年前成立以来，穆兄会已得到数十万成员和全国上下数百万附属机构成员和同情者的支持，并成功抵御了官方的打击行动。
Although leaders of the group say they remain committed to protests to express their activism, some members said that many of its sympathizers were increasingly talking of violence.
尽管穆兄会领导人表示，他们仍会努力通过抗议活动来表达他们的行动主义，但一些成员称，很多穆兄会的同情者越来越倾向于采取暴力。
“I know people who are not Muslim brothers who say, ‘We’ll get your rights back for you,’ ” said Ramadan Fadel, a 27-year-old member in Fayoum who said that an acquaintance had told him that people were ready to take up arms to protect the group.
“我认识一些不是穆兄会成员的人，他们说，‘我们会帮你们讨回权利，’”来自法尤姆的穆兄会成员、27岁的拉马丹·法德勒(Ramadan Fadel)说。他还说一个熟人曾告诉他，人们已经准备好拿起武器保护穆兄会。
In places like Mansoura, north of Cairo, where the Brotherhood’s footprint is smaller, there was less talk of confrontation than of survival, beginning with the difficulty of attracting new recruits. “Who would want to undergo this repression?” asked a doctor who lives just outside the city and who wanted to remain anonymous for fear of reprisals.
在开罗北部曼苏拉等穆兄会势力较小的地方，被谈论更多的是生存而不是抗争，首先，招收新人就是个难题。“谁愿意经历这种打压？”住在城市近郊的一名医生说，由于担心遭到报复，他希望匿名。
In cities like Mansoura, the doctor said, members have continued to attend the small, weekly “family” meetings that are considered the most critical building blocks of the organization, and the wellspring of the brotherhood’s cohesion and its ideology.
这名医生称，在曼苏拉等城市，穆兄会成员还在继续参加每周一次的小型“家庭”聚会，这些聚会被认为是维系穆兄会最关键的元素，也是其凝聚力和意识形态的源泉。
In many neighborhoods in Fayoum, campaign posters for Mr. Morsi still hang on the walls, evidence of the futility of the government’s campaign, Brotherhood members say.
在法尤姆的很多街区，穆尔西的竞选海报还挂在墙上，穆兄会成员称，这证明了政府的运动是徒劳的。
For now, Brotherhood members in Fayoum said they were concentrating on replenishing their ranks, reaching out to new recruits while trying to coax lapsed, older members into more active service. Four of the members, including a senior leader, detailed the movement’s strategy, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they feared drawing further attention from the authorities.
法尤姆的穆兄会成员说，目前他们专注于补充人力，在招募新成员的同时，努力说服不再活跃的老成员开展更积极的活动。包括一名高级领导人在内的四名成员详细讲述了穆兄会的战略，由于担心引起官方更多注意，他们要求匿名。
Still, a growing pressure on the Brotherhood has forced adjustments. Meetings are now held in private homes, and members approach security checkpoints and attend protests assuming they will be arrested. Some of the protests have become more like flash mobs, with demonstrators scattering quickly to avoid a heavy security response.
不过，面对不断加大的压力，穆兄会还是被迫做出了调整。现在他们会在私人住宅里开会，成员在要靠近安全检查站和参加抗议时都做好了被捕的准备。一些抗议变得更像是快闪行动，集会者会很快散开以避免安全警察的强力镇压。
Some of the older Brotherhood leaders, for whom living under repression had become a way of life, boasted about the movement’s tenacity.
对穆兄会一些较年长的领导人来说，在打压之下生存已成为一种生活方式，他们对这一运动的顽强不息倍感骄傲。
But for younger members, facing the wrath of the state was still a shock. Mr. Fadel, the 27-year-old, said he had become terrified of being singled out as a member of the Brotherhood by people on the street. His family has also pressured him to leave the movement.
但对更年轻的成员而言，面对来自国家的愤怒仍会感到震惊。27岁的法德勒说，他十分害怕在街上被人认出来是穆兄会成员。家人也向他施压让他退出这项运动。
Having been wounded by birdshot during protests, he said, he had prepared himself for the likelihood that he would be killed. “For now I see no future,” he said. “I fear for my family.”
法德勒在参加抗议时曾被小号铅弹击中受伤，他说自己已经做好了可能被杀的准备。“现在我看不到任何未来，”他说。“我很担心我的家人。”
With the group’s narrow focus on survival, there was little talk about the long-term direction of the movement, or the mistakes during Mr. Morsi’s time in power, a tenure that ended with millions of angry Egyptians on the streets demanding his ouster. The Brotherhood members talked about a few “errors” but mostly complained about what they said were conspiracies that doomed their rule.
现在穆兄会只把精力集中在维持生存上，几乎没有讨论运动的长远方向，或者在穆尔西当权时期该组织犯下的错误。当时，数百万愤怒的埃及人走上街头要求穆尔西下台，结束了他的任期。穆兄会成员谈到一些“过失”，但主要是抱怨一些他们所说的最终结束其统治的阴谋。
Their official demand, that the military takeover be reversed, has not changed since July. On the horizon were nothing but protests and some unspecified type of resistance that the leaders in Fayoum promised to unveil on Jan. 25, the anniversary of the 2011 uprising against President Hosni Mubarak.
自7月份以来，穆兄会正式的主张就一直是恢复军方接管之前的政治格局。近在眼前的计划只有开展抗议活动，以及法尤姆的穆兄会领导人所承诺的在1月25日——2011年反对胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)起义的纪念日——开始的某种形式的抵抗。