CAIRO — Egyptian security forces moved on Wednesday to clear two camps in Cairo occupied by supporters of the ousted president, Mohamed Morsi, deploying armored vehicles, bulldozers, tear gas, snipers and helicopters in a sustained and bloody operation that seemed to surprise some protesters with its ferocity.
开罗——埃及安全部队周三开始将抗议者从被他们占据的两个开罗营地中驱赶出去，抗议者是被罢免的总统默罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者。这场持续的血腥镇压动用了装甲车、推土机、催泪瓦斯、狙击手以及直升机，其残暴程度似乎让一些抗议者感到震惊。
Witnesses spoke of gunfire from shotguns and automatic rifles as white clouds of tear gas offset plumes of black smoke from burning tires in violence that deepened an already profound gulf in Egyptian society. Protesters arrived at field hospitals with gunshot wounds to the neck and chest. At one location, soldiers were seen firing on a lone protester lobbing rocks from a rooftop. There were reports of scores of fatalities, including several police officers. Many people were arrested, including leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood, news reports said.
目击者称看到发自散弹枪和自动步枪的火力，同时还伴随着催泪瓦斯爆炸产生的白色烟雾，与暴力冲突中燃烧的轮胎释放的黑烟形成对照。这次暴力冲突加深了埃及社会中已然存在的分裂。来到附近医院的抗议者多带有颈部或胸部的枪伤。在一个地方，有人看到士兵们从屋顶向一位孤零零的抗议者开枪，这个抗议者正在扔石块。有报道称，死亡人数达几十人，其中包括几名警察。新闻报道称，包括穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领导人在内的很多人已被逮捕。
Amid the confusion, there were wildly divergent tallies of the death toll. The Muslim Brotherhood called the operation a “massacre” and put the number of dead in the hundreds, a figure that was not immediately borne out by accounts from reporters visiting morgues. But the toll nonetheless seemed to climb rapidly. At one makeshift morgue run by pro-Morsi supporters, the number of dead bodies rose from 3 to 12 in a matter of minutes. By early afternoon, estimates of the number of dead, as chronicled in news reports, ranged from 56 to 124.
由于混乱，有各种不同的死亡人数报道。穆斯林兄弟会将这一行动称为“屠杀”，称有上百人死亡，这一数字没能马上得到前往停尸间打探消息的记者的证实。但死亡人数似乎在迅速上升。在一家由穆尔西支持者设立的临时停尸间里，死亡人数已经在几分钟内从3人上升到12人。截至下午早些时候，媒体报道的死亡人数在56人到124人之间不等。
Sky News said one of its veteran cameramen, Mick Deane, was killed. The circumstances were not clear. Mohamed el-Beltagy, a prominent member of the Muslim Brotherhood, said his 17-year-old daughter was also among the dead.
天空新闻(Sky News)报道称其一名资深摄影师米克·迪恩(Mick Deane)被打死。他死亡的具体情况还不清楚。穆兄会一名重要成员穆罕默德·贝尔塔吉(Mohamed el-Beltagy)说，死者当中有他17岁的女儿。
Hours after the operation began, the authorities said they had cleared the smaller of two encampments at Nahda Square near Cairo University. But protesters at the larger camp around the Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque in the northeastern suburb of Nasr City remained defiant but seemed to be under siege by vastly superior forces seeking to uproot them.
在行动进行了几小时后，当局称他们已经清除了位于开罗大学(Cairo University)附近纳达广场上的营地，这是两个营地中较小的一个。但是聚集在在纳赛尔城东北部郊区拉巴清真寺(Rabaa al-Adawiya)附近一个更大营地中的抗议者仍在反抗，不过，他们似乎已经被寻求将他们出营地、力量远远超过他们的部队包围住。
Pro-Morsi demonstrators from outside the larger camp, meanwhile, clashed with the police on its approaches, braving waves of tear gas to barricade streets. Some protesters prepared gasoline bombs and broke paving stones to hurl at their adversaries as the confrontation unfolded.
与此同时，在这个较大营地外支持穆尔西的抗议者，在警察接近营地时与其发生冲突，他们冒着一波一波催泪瓦斯的袭击设置路障。一些抗议者准备了汽油弹，还把铺路的石块打碎，在警察进攻时，把这些东西掷向他们。
The clashes illuminated the deepening fissures in Egypt between an Islamist movement sustained by the Muslim Brotherhood in support of Mr. Morsi and secular forces who cast the military as protectors. The operation also threatened to reinforce regional tensions with Turkey, whose Islamist-backed government opposed the overthrow of Mr. Morsi. The “armed intervention on civilians, on people demonstrating” was “completely unacceptable,” in the words of President Abdullah Gul.
冲突揭示了埃及社会的两个方面之间不断深化的分裂，其中一方是拥护穆尔西、由穆兄会支持的伊斯兰运动，另一方面是把军队当做保护者的世俗力量。驱赶行动也给埃及与土耳其之间的区域性紧张局势的上升制造了危险，土耳其的伊斯兰派政府反对罢免穆尔西。用土耳其总统阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)的话来说，“用武力对公民和抗议者进行干预”是“完全不可接受的”。
News agencies reported clashes between civilian supporters and foes of Mr. Morsi in other parts of Cairo. An Egyptian human rights group, the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said the crackdown had spurred counterattacks by Muslim Brotherhood supporters against Coptic Christian churches in Minya and Sohag, south of Cairo, apparently reflecting a perception among Islamists that the Coptic minority had supported the military’s action in ousting Mr. Morsi in early July.
新闻机构报道称，穆尔西的民间支持者与其反对者在开罗其他地方也发生了冲突。名为埃及个人权益行动(Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights)的埃及人权组织称，此次镇压行动激起了穆兄会支持者的反击，反击的目标开罗南部明亚和索哈格的科普特基督教(Coptic Christian)教会，这明显反映了伊斯兰派的一个观点，他们认为科普特教少数民族支持了7月初罢免穆尔西的军事行动。
As demonstrations spread to other cities on Wednesday, television footage from the Mediterranean city of Alexandria and Aswan in the south showed thousands of Morsi supporters taking to the streets to protest the military action in Cairo. The authorities were reported to have suspended rail services in and out of Cairo to prevent pro-Morsi demonstrators from regrouping or summoning reinforcements.
随着示威者在周三向其他城市转移，南部地中海城市亚历山大和阿斯旺的电视播放了数千穆尔西支持者走上街头抗议开罗军事行动的报道。据报道，当局已经暂停了进出开罗的火车，以防支持穆尔西的示威者重组或者是召集援助。
The coordinated action against the Morsi supporters, which had been expected for days, began around 7 a.m. local time. The protesters are seeking the reinstatement of Mr. Morsi, who became Egypt’s first democratically elected president in 2012 and was deposed by the military six weeks ago. In removing Mr. Morsi, the military also suspended the Constitution and installed an interim government presided over by a senior jurist.
针对穆尔西支持者采取的协同行动在当地时间早上7点开始，这种行动几天前就预计会发生。抗议者要求恢复穆尔西的职务，他在2012年成为埃及的第一位经民主选举产生的总统，6个星期前他被军队罢免。为了罢免穆尔西，军队还暂停了宪法，并成立了一个由一名高级法官担任总统的临时政府。
A statement from the interim government praised the security forces for showing what it called self-restraint and blaming leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood for inciting violence. “The government holds these leaders fully responsible for any spilled blood, and for all the rioting and violence going on,” the statement said, according to Reuters.
临时政府发的一份声明表扬了安全部队的自我克制，同时将煽动暴力的责任推给穆兄会领导人。据路透社(Reuters)报道，这份声明称“政府将追究这些领导人的责任，他们应该为所有的流血事件、所有暴乱，以及正在发生的暴力负完全责任”。
The interim authorities also pledged to pursue a military-based political blueprint for the country’s future in “a way that strives not to exclude any party from participation.”
临时政府还承诺，为了该国的未来，将以一种“争取不排除任何一方”做法，追求一个基于军队支持的政治蓝图。
But, in a further sign of the rift between faith and political power, Al Azhar, the pre-eminent Muslim religious authority, said it had no advance knowledge that the authorities would use aggressive means to disperse the protesters. A statement cited by Agence France-Presse called on all sides to “exercise self-restraint and take into account the interests of the nation” and said the “use of violence has never been an alternative to a political solution.”
然而，作为信仰力量与政治力量分裂的进一步表现，著名穆斯林宗教机构爱资哈尔(Al-Azhar)称，此前并不知道政府会使用激烈的手段来驱散抗议者。法新社(Agence France-Presse)援引的一则声明呼吁各方“自我克制并以国家利益为重”，还称“暴力的使用从来都不能替代政治解决途径”。
The statement followed hours of clashes after army bulldozers moved in to dismantle the defenses set up by protesters.
声明是在冲突发生几小时之后发出，那时部队的推土机已经开始拆除抗议者搭建的防御设施。
Images on Al Jazeera television showed a car ablaze and protesters being treated for bloody injuries. Protesters’ tents appeared to have been razed, and a pillar of black smoke rose above palm trees in one of the areas. The footage showed what appeared to be a gunman firing from a rooftop, but the shooter’s identity was not immediately clear.
半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)播放的画面显示了一辆着火的汽车，还有受伤流血的抗议者在接受治疗。抗议者搭起的帐篷看来也被夷为平地，有一股黑烟从一个地方的棕榈树中升起。这段视频显示了一个持枪者在屋顶上开枪，但是开枪者的身份不能马上确定。
At Nahda Square, black-uniformed police wearing gas masks and helmets dragged and carried away protesters, the footage showed. At least one of the protesters showed no sign of life as his limp body was loaded into an ambulance. The police seemed to be rounding up protesters in groups as they fled the barrages of tear gas. The footage also showed smoke from burning tires.
视频显示，身穿黑色制服的警察带着防毒面罩和头盔从纳达广场上将抗议者拖走。至少有一名抗议者在被抬进救护车时身体无力地下垂着，没有生命迹象。警察看来在抗议者逃离一连串的催泪瓦斯弹时对他们进行成批拘捕。画面上还有燃烧的轮胎释放的烟雾。
State television broadcast images of what it said was a protester firing on security forces with an assault rifle.
在国家电视台播放了该电视台所称的一名抗议者用冲锋枪向安全部队开火的画面。
An Associated Press television video journalist at the larger of the camps at Nasr City said he heard women screaming as a cloud of white smoke hung over the site in eastern Cairo.
一名在纳赛尔城较大营地的美联社(Associated Press)电视记者说，随着一团白烟在这个位于开罗东部的营地上升起，他听到妇女的尖叫声。
Mohamed Soltan, a representative of protesters there, told Al Jazeera that a cameraman working with the protesters had been shot and killed by a sniper while filming on a stage. There was no official confirmation of the shooting.
那里的抗议者的代表穆罕默德·苏丹(Mohamed Soltan)告诉半岛电视台说，一名与抗议者在一起的摄影师在录制视频时被一名狙击手击中身亡。还没有这个开枪事件的官方证实。
According to a recent visitor, the camp in Nasr City was always likely to present the authorities with a greater challenge. Tens of thousands of people have built a well-equipped community there with electricity, Internet access, a hospital, communal kitchens, latrines and showers.
据最近到过纳赛尔城这个营地的人说，政府一直可能在那里面临更大的挑战。数万人在那里搭建了设施齐全的社区，里面通了电、可以上网、有一家医院、公用厨房、厕所和淋浴。
While dozens of people have been killed by the police and the military since the sit-ins began, analysts said, the crackdowns on the protesters seemed to have reinforced their conviction to stay.
分析人士称，虽然从静坐开始到现在已有几十人被警察和军队打死，但镇压行动似乎坚定了抗议者要坚持下去的信念。
Mr. Morsi is being held at an undisclosed location. The military authorities have taken steps toward his criminal prosecution on charges relating to his activities during the revolution that ousted his predecessor, Hosni Mubarak.
穆尔西现在被关在一个秘密地点。军事当局已经开始对他启动刑事指控的步骤，罪名与他在罢免前任总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的革命中的行动有关。
While Egyptians broadly consider Mr. Mubarak’s autocracy to have been fundamentally illegitimate, Mr. Morsi is now under investigation for his own escape from political imprisonment and his work in the Islamist political opposition that helped to topple Mr. Mubarak in 2011.
虽然埃及人普遍认为穆巴拉克的独裁统治从根本上是非法的，但是，现在穆尔西却因自己逃脱政治监禁、以及他为伊斯兰政治反对派所做的工作而被调查，伊斯兰反对派在2011年帮助推翻了穆巴拉克统治。