ABUJA, Nigeria — As alarm spread over the deadly Ebola virus in West Africa, President Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone, one of the three main countries battling the worst known outbreak of the disease, declared a public health emergency late on Wednesday including the deployment of security forces to quarantine epicenters of infection. He also said he was canceling a planned visit to the United States.
尼日利亚阿布贾——由于致命的埃博拉病毒在西部非洲扩散，塞拉利昂总统欧内斯特·巴伊·科罗马(Ernest Bai Koroma)周三晚间宣布，该国进入公共卫生紧急状态，将动用包括安全部队在内的人员前往发病地点对患者采取隔离措施，塞拉利昂是正在抗击该病毒迄今最严重的一次爆发的三个主要国家之一。他还表示将取消访问美国的计划。
In an address to the nation posted on the presidential website, Mr. Koroma said the emergency would “enable us take a more robust approach to deal with the Ebola outbreak.”
科罗马在总统府网站发布的告全国人民书中说，紧急措施将“让我们能采取更积极的手段来对付埃博拉病毒的爆发”。
Mr. Koroma said he had been planning to attend a United States-Africa summit meeting in Washington, but would instead go on Friday to Guinea to discuss a regional response to the outbreak. The other two countries accounting for many of the 672 killed by the disease in recent weeks are Liberia and Guinea.
科罗马表示，他原本打算出席在华盛顿举行的美国-非洲首脑会议，但他改变了计划，将于周五前往几内亚，讨论针对疫情的地区响应。最近几周的疾病发作已导致672人死亡，其中许多人来自另外两个国家：利比里亚和几内亚。
In the address, Mr. Koroma said security forces would be deployed to support health professionals and that “all epicenters of the disease will be quarantined” along with “localities and homes where the disease is identified.”
科罗马在告全国人民书中说，将部署安全部队前去支持卫生专业人员，“对所有发病中心”以及“发现有患者的地点和家庭都将采取隔离措施”。
Public meetings will be restricted, houses will be searched for infected people, Parliament will be recalled and top officials will be obliged to cancel all but essential overseas travel.
所有的公开集会都将受到限制，将搜查住房以发现被感染者，议会将被召回，高级官员将被要求取消所有海外行程，除非是必须的。
“These measures will initially be implemented for a period of 60 to 90 days,” Mr. Koroma said, and subsequent measures will be announced as and when necessary.”
“这些措施最初的实施时期是60至90天，”科罗马说，下一步的措施将在有必要时公布。
The announcement came a day after Liberia said it was closing schools, placing nonessential government workers on compulsory leave for 30 days and ordering security to enforce what was termed an action plan to combat the outbreak. The Peace Corps, a program run by the United States government, said it was withdrawing its 340 volunteers from the three countries most affected by the virus. “The epidemic is very big, very dispersed,” said Dr. Hilde de Clerck, the interim emergency coordinator in Sierra Leone for Doctors Without Borders. “It seems logical that the country is reacting. I do understand that the central government has to do something. Cases are now being reported in more southern regions. There is a geographical spread. We do see that it is several districts that are hit now.” Officials and experts in Europe sought on Thursday to dampen fears that public health specialists were ill prepared to cope with the arrival of infected travelers.
这一宣布公布的一天前，利比里亚表示将关闭学校，让非必需的政府工作人员强制休假30天，并下令安全执行被称为抗击疾病爆发的行动计划。美国政府运作的和平队(Peace Corps)项目表示，正在从受病毒感染最严重的三个国家撤出全部340名志愿者。无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)组织在塞拉利昂的临时紧急协调员希尔德·德克莱克(Hilde de Clerck)博士说，“疫情非常严重，范围非常广。国家做出反应看来合乎逻辑。我完全理解中央政府需要采取行动。病例现在正在更南部的地区出现。出现了地域范围的扩散。我的确看到已有几个地区正在受到影响。”欧洲的官员和专家试图在周四缓解一种恐惧情绪，就是公共卫生专家还没有准备好应对受感染旅客的到来。
“There is no health facility at the border, there is no containment facility and until extremely recently there has been no guidance issued to staff at all as to what they should do,” said Lucy Moreton, the head of the Immigration Service Union, which represents immigration staff in Britain.
“边境上没有卫生设施，也没有防范设施，直到非常近的最近，也一直没有给任何工作人员发他们应该怎样做的指导意见，”露西·摩顿说，她是代表英国出入境工作人员的出入境服务工会(Immigration Service Union)的负责人。
But Dr. Peter Piot, co-discoverer of the virus and the director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said there was little risk.
不过，埃博拉病毒的发现者之一彼得·皮奧(Peter Piot)博士说，欧洲面临的风险不大。皮奧也是伦敦卫生与热带医学院(London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine)院长。
“Spreading in the population here, I’m not that worried about it,” he told Agence France-Presse.
“对病毒在这里的居民中传播的问题，我不怎么担心，”他对法新社说。
“I wouldn’t be worried to sit next to someone with Ebola virus on the Tube as long as they don’t vomit on you or something,” he said, referring to London’s underground train system. “This is an infection that requires very close contact.”
“我不会担心在地铁上坐在埃博拉病毒感染者旁边，只要他们不吐到你身上或别的接触，”他说，他指的是伦敦的地铁系统。“这种感染需要非常密切的接触。”
The French minister of health, Marisol Touraine, offered a similar assessment in an interview with the daily newspaper Le Parisien on Thursday, saying the risk of importing the virus into Europe was low, and that no such case had thus far been documented. Nevertheless, she called for extreme vigilance against an ailment she characterized as both “very serious” and “very contagious.” In Geneva, the International Air Transport Association, which represents most of the world’s major airlines, also played down the hazards outside the region, Reuters reported. The agency said in a statement on Thursday that the World Health Organization had not recommended travel restrictions or border closures, and said there would be a low risk for travelers.
法国卫生部长玛丽索尔·图雷纳(Marisol Touraine)在周四接受《巴黎人报》(Le Parisien)的采访时，给出了类似的估计，称病毒进入欧洲的风险很低，并表示目前没有发现任何病情记录。然而，她呼吁对这种她描述为“非常严重、传染性极高的”疾病保持高度警惕。总部在日内瓦的国际航空运输协会(International Air Transport Association)是世界上大多数主要航空公司的代表，据路透社报道，该协会也不认为非洲以外的地区有多大危险。该机构在周四的一份声明中表示，世界卫生组织没有建议限制旅行或关闭边界，并表示病毒对旅行者来说风险不大。