CAIRO — Eight Egyptian museum officials are to face a disciplinary tribunal for their role in a botched repair job that caused lasting damage to the famed golden burial mask of King Tutankhamen, one of the country’s most prized artifacts, the country’s administrative prosecutor has said.
开罗——埃及行政检察官表示，八名博物馆员将面临纪律审裁，因为他们对一次拙劣的图坦卡蒙黄金面具修复工作负有责任。著名的图坦卡蒙法老黄金丧葬面具是埃及最珍贵的文物之一，而前述修复工作给它造成了持久的损伤。
The judicial action is the latest step in an embarrassing saga at the state-run Egyptian Museum in Cairo that started in August 2014 when workers accidentally knocked the beard from the 3,300-year-old artifact as they repaired a light fixture in its display case, and then made things worse by trying to glue it back on.
此次诉讼是一场发生在埃及博物馆(Egyptian Museum)的尴尬事件的最新进展。事情始于2014年8月，当时开罗这座国家博物馆的工人在修理面具展柜里的一个灯具时，不慎将这件有3300年历史的文物的胡子撞掉，然后他们又试图把胡子粘回去，导致情况进一步恶化。
Tourists took photos of museum employees as they reattached the blue-and-gold beard using an insoluble epoxy resin that left a visible ring of glue around the edge of the beard. Fears that the damage was irreversible proved unfounded, however, after German experts carefully removed the epoxy and restored the solid gold mask using beeswax, the adhesive used by the ancient Egyptians.
博物馆员工使用不溶性环氧树脂，将蓝金两色的胡须粘回到面具上时，游客拍下了他们的照片。修复行动在胡须边缘留下一圈明显可见的胶水。有人担心这种破坏是不可逆的，不过事实证明并非如此，德国专家小心翼翼地去除了环氧树脂，并用古埃及人使用的粘接剂——蜂蜡——修复了纯金面具。
The mask was returned to public display last month, albeit with some fine scratches caused by improvised earlier attempts to remove the glue stains using a sharp object. In a statement, the administrative prosecution authority, which investigates legal violations involving public servants, accused eight officials, including a former director of the museum and a former head of restoration, of “gross negligence and blatant violation of scientific and professional rules.”
上月，面具回到了公开展示区，不过工作人员最初尝试用尖锐物体去除胶渍的时候，在面具上留下一些细微划痕。负责调查涉公务员违法行为的行政检察机关发表声明，指控八名馆员犯有“重大过失，公然违反科学和专业规则”，其中包括博物馆的一名前任馆长以及前修复工作负责人。
“In an attempt to cover up the damage they inflicted, they used sharp instruments such as scalpels and metal tools to remove traces of the glue on the mask, causing damage and scratches that remain,” the statement said.
“为了掩盖他们造成的破坏，他们用手术刀和金属工具等锋利的器械去除面具上的胶水痕迹，结果造成了持续的损伤和划痕，”声明称。
The accused officials have been suspended from their jobs and now face possible dismissal and heavy fines, but they will not go to prison.
遭到指控的馆员已被停职，可能会面临解雇和重金罚款，但不会入狱。
The scratches to the mask will not be visible to most visitors, according to Monica Hanna, an archaeologist and a member of Egypt’s Heritage Task Force, an initiative to protect the nation’s cultural heritage. Ms. Hanna blamed the debacle on declining standards at the 104-year-old museum, which is home to the world’s largest collection of mummies and other Pharaonic antiquities but has become increasingly neglected in recent years.
考古学家莫妮卡·汉娜(Monica Hanna)说，大多数游客不会看到面具上的划痕。她是旨在保护埃及文化遗产的文物工作组(Heritage Task Force)的成员。汉娜把这件事归咎于埃及博物馆的水平下降。这座博物馆有104年历史，是世界上最大的木乃伊和其他法老文物收藏馆，但是近年来，它遭受了越来越严重的忽视。
“There’s been a shift in the people working there,” she said. “The experienced people have retired and the new ones do not have adequate training.”
“那里的工作人员青黄不接，”她说。“经验丰富的人退休了，新人又没有接受过充分培训。”
Ms. Hanna said part of the collection was set to be shifted to two new museums in the coming years — the Grand Egyptian Museum, an $800 million project under construction near the Giza pyramids and scheduled to open in 2018, and the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization, which has been completed but is yet to open to the public.
汉娜说，未来几年，那里的部分文物将被转移到两座新的博物馆——一座是耗资8亿美元的大埃及博物馆(Grand Egyptian Museum)，正在吉萨金字塔附近施工建设，计划于2018年开放；另一座是已经竣工但尚未对公众开放的埃及文明国家博物馆(National Museum of Egyptian Civilization)。
The mask of Tutankhamen, an enigmatic young king, was discovered by the British archaeologist Howard Carter at the Valley of the Kings in 1922. It set off a global fascination with Egyptology that became a cornerstone of Egypt’s tourism industry.
1922年，英国考古学家霍华德·卡特(Howard Carter)在帝王谷发现了神秘的少年法老图坦卡蒙的面具。从此之后，埃及古物学受到全球热捧，成为埃及旅游业的基石。
That industry has suffered badly in recent years, first because of the unrest that followed the fall of President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, then because of the turmoil that erupted in 2013 after the military deposed President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood.
近年来，埃及旅游业遭受了重创。最初是因为2011年埃及总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)倒台后发生的骚乱，然后在2013年，军方推翻穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)出身的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)之后，埃及又出现了动荡。
Tourists have been attacked by Islamist extremists; eight Mexicans were killed by Egyptian security forces when they were mistaken for militants; and in October a suspected bomb brought down a Russian airliner, killing 224 people near a Red Sea resort.
游客遭到伊斯兰极端分子的攻击；八名墨西哥人被埃及安全部队误认为武装分子并开枪射杀；去年10月，一架俄罗斯民航客机疑遭炸弹袭击，224人命丧一处红海度假胜地附近。
In recent months, though, Tutankhamen became the focus of renewed interest after the British Egyptologist Nicholas Reeves promoted a tantalizing theory that behind his burial chamber lies the long-sought tomb of Queen Nefertiti.
但是近几个月来，图坦卡蒙引起了新一轮的兴趣，因为英国的埃及古物学者尼古拉斯·里夫斯(Nicholas Reeves)提出了一个很吸引人的假说，称图坦卡蒙的墓室背后隐藏着久寻不见的纳芙蒂蒂王后(Queen Nefertiti)墓。