Two of the Persian Gulf’s richest monarchies pledged $8 billion in cash and loans to Egypt on Tuesday, a decision that was aimed not only at shoring up a shaky transitional government, but also at undermining their Islamist rivals and strengthening their allies across a newly turbulent Middle East.
周二，波斯湾最富有的两个君主制国家承诺将为埃及提供80亿美元（约合490亿元人民）的现金和贷款。这个决定不仅是为了支持埃及岌岌可危的过渡政府，也是为了削弱其伊斯兰派对手，并在波澜又起的中东地区壮大盟友的力量。
The robust financial aid package announced by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates came a day after the Egyptian military killed dozens of Muslim Brotherhood members protesting last week’s military ouster of Egypt’s Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi. The aid package underscored a continuing regional contest for influence between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, one that has accelerated since the Arab uprising upended the status quo and brought Islamists to power.
沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国在埃及军方开枪打死数十名穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)成员之后一天，宣布了这项力度很大的财政援助计划。这些穆兄会成员当时正在举行抗议活动，反对军方上周罢黜埃及的伊斯兰派总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。这项援助计划表明，沙特阿拉伯和卡塔尔为争夺本地区影响力而开展的竞争仍在继续。自从阿拉伯之春颠覆现状，把伊斯兰主义者推上权力宝座以来，这场竞争就已加快了速度。
Qatar, in alliance with Turkey, has given strong financial and diplomatic support to the Muslim Brotherhood, but also to other Islamists operating on the battlefields of Syria and, before that, Libya. The Saudis and Emiratis, by comparison, have sought to restore the old, authoritarian order, fearful that Islamist movements and calls for democracy would destabilize their own nations.
卡塔尔与土耳其达成统一战线，在财政和外交方面对穆斯林兄弟会，以及叙利亚战场上的其他伊斯兰派组织，还有之前的利比亚，给予了强有力的支持。相比之下，沙特和阿联酋却希望能够恢复旧的威权秩序，因为他们担心伊斯兰派运动和民主诉求会破坏本国的稳定。
The promise to provide so much assistance also highlighted the limits of American leverage: the United States provides Egypt $1.5 billion in annual aid, a small fraction of what the gulf states have promised. But the gulf intervention contrasted sharply with the Obama administration’s uncertainty about how to respond to the military takeover, and more broadly, how to wield influence across an increasingly chaotic and fragmented Arab world where American interests are hard to define.
他们如此慷慨的援助承诺也突显出美国的影响力多么有限：美国每年为埃及提供15亿美元的援助，和这两个海湾国家所承诺援助相比，是一个小数。奥巴马政府不确定该对军方接管政权作出何种回应，而且从更广泛的角度来说，鉴于阿拉伯世界日益混乱、分裂，美国在该地区的利益很难界定，美国也不知该如何发挥它的影响力。此时这两个海湾国家的干预与奥巴马政府的犹疑不决形成了鲜明对比。
The White House has said it is reviewing the circumstances of the takeover before making a decision on the annual aid to Egypt — which some in Congress, notably Senator John McCain of Arizona, have said should be suspended, calling the takeover a coup d’état. But on Tuesday, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, struck a somewhat different tone, saying the administration was encouraged by the timetable provided by Egypt’s interim authorities for a transition to elections and a fully civilian government.
白宫表示，在对提供给埃及的年度援助作出决定之前，他们正在对军方接管政权的情况进行研究。以亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)为代表的一些国会议员曾表示，应暂停为埃及提供援助，他们将军方接管的举动称为政变。但是，白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)周二则发出了略有不同的声音。他说，埃及过渡当局给出的向选举和完全文职政府过渡的时间表让奥巴马政府深受鼓舞。
The Saudis and Emiratis were nearly buoyant at the military’s move to oust Mr. Morsi. Both are deeply hostile to the Brotherhood’s Islamist-cum-democratic agenda, which they see as a threat both to their own monarchical legitimacy and to regional stability. Qatar, by contrast, provided about $8 billion in aid to Mr. Morsi’s government during his yearlong tenure, and Turkey offered loans of $2 billion.
几乎可以说，沙特和阿联酋对军方驱逐穆尔西的举动是欣喜的。这两个国家都对穆兄会伊斯兰主义加民主的议程有很深的敌意，他们认为这个议程会对本国君主制的合法性和地区稳定带来威胁。而卡塔尔却在穆尔西执政的一年间为他的政府提供了大约80亿美元的援助，土耳其则提供了20亿美元的贷款。
The tensions between Qatar and Saudi Arabia are older and broader than the Arab uprisings that began in 2011. Saudi Arabia, which prefers to work its checkbook diplomacy quietly and behind the scenes, sees itself as the regional leader. But the Qataris have for years fashioned an outsize foreign policy, often rebuffing Saudi Arabia’s perceived interests, using its wealth and Al Jazeera, the television network it built, to play a decisive role in some of the region’s most volatile and important events.
卡塔尔和沙特阿拉伯之间的紧张关系，比始于2011年的阿拉伯之春历史更悠久、涉及范围更广。自视为地区领袖的沙特一向喜欢在幕后默默地制定本国的支票外交政策。但是数年来，卡塔尔则形成了一套庞大的外交政策，经常对沙特关心的利益提出指责，并利用自己的财富和它所打造的电视网半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)，在一些最敏感和最重要的地区事务中发挥决定作用。
Qatar, host to the largest American military base in the Middle East, has also eagerly financed Islamists in Tunisia, Libya, Syria and Egypt, often siding with the Muslim Brotherhood or its affiliates, like Hamas. Qatar angered the Saudis (and the Obama administration) by supporting Islamist rebels in Syria and providing some heavier weapons, like shoulder-fired missiles, against American advice.
卡塔尔有美国在中东最大的军事基地，也一直积极地资助突尼斯、比利亚、叙利亚和埃及的伊斯兰派，常常站在穆斯林兄弟会的一边，或是像哈马斯(Hamas)这样与穆兄会相关的组织。卡塔尔不顾美国的建议，支持叙利亚的伊斯兰派反政府武装，并为他们提供了肩扛式导弹等重型武器，这惹恼了沙特阿拉伯（以及奥巴马政府）。
Suddenly, some of the tables have turned on Qatar.
从某种方面来说，局势突然调转，卡塔尔处在了下风。
With the rise of the Brotherhood, the Saudis had largely cut off aid to Mr. Morsi’s government and ignored American requests to help Egypt manage a worsening economic crisis. After Mr. Morsi was ousted by the Egyptian military, the Saudi and Emirati governments were quick to issue strong statements of support for the transition. On Friday night, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia personally called Egypt’s army chief, Gen. Abdel-Fattah el Sisi, to reinforce his backing for the caretaker government, The Associated Press reported.
随着穆兄会的崛起，沙特基本上已切断了对穆尔西政府的援助，也无视了美国要它帮助埃及应对不断恶化的经济危机的请求。在穆尔西被埃及军方罢黜以后，沙特和阿联酋政府迅速发布了措辞强烈的声明，支持政权过度。美联社(The Associated Press)报道，周五夜里，沙特阿拉伯的阿卜杜拉国王(King Abdullah)亲自打电话给埃及的军方最高将领阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel-Fattah el Sisi)上将，重申他对看守政府的支持。
“This is clearly a setback for the ideology that Qatar and Turkey support and encourage,” said one Arab official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to antagonize two powerful nations. “If political Islam was a stock, it would have gone down dramatically over the past week.”
“对卡塔尔和土耳其所拥护和鼓励的意识形态来说，这无疑是一次挫败，”一位阿拉伯官员表示。为避免惹恼这两个强国，他以匿名发表评论。“如果政治上的伊斯兰是一支股票，那么它在过去一周可算跌幅巨大。”
Qatari officials declined to comment on the rivalry. But one Qatari official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Qatar’s financial aid in the past had been to the Egyptian people, not any individual figure or party.
卡塔尔官员拒绝对这种竞争发表评论。但一位要求匿名的卡塔尔官员指出，卡塔尔过去所提供的财政援助是针对埃及人民的，而不是某一人或是某一党。
The Qataris suffered two other, lesser setbacks in recent days: on Monday, 22 journalists at Al Jazeera resigned en masse, citing what they said was the station’s biased coverage of the Brotherhood. Al Jazeera’s bias in favor of the Islamist group has often been cited as a grievance against Qatar’s rulers, who are accused of using the station as an arm of their activist foreign policy.
近来，卡塔尔还遭受了其他两个打击，但程度较轻：周一，22位半岛电视台的记者集体辞职，据他们说，辞职理由是这家电视台在报道穆兄会时有失公正。人们指责卡塔尔统治者利用半岛电视台辅助他们激进的外交政策，半岛台对穆兄会的偏袒也是人们对卡塔尔统治者心存不满的一个理由。
Also on Tuesday, Ghassan Hitto, the prime minister of the main Syrian exile opposition group — who was seen as favorable to Qatar — resigned. Although the reasons for his resignation were not clear, it was generally viewed as a concession to Saudi Arabia, which had signaled its discontent with him.
然后在周二，叙利亚主要流亡反对组织的总理加萨尼·希托(Ghassan Hitto)辞职，人们一直认为他亲近卡塔尔。虽然他辞职的理由还不清楚，但由于沙特阿拉伯早就表露了对他的不满，各界广泛将这视作是对沙特的让步。
Some analysts say Qatar has already begun to rein in its aggressive and eclectic foreign policy, which has included a willingness to engage with Iran that infuriated its Saudi neighbors. Last week, Qatar’s government joined Saudi Arabia and others in issuing a message of support to the transitional government installed by the Egyptian military, even as its allies in the Brotherhood protested furiously against what they called a military coup.
一些分析人士表示，卡塔尔已开始压制它激进、杂乱无章的外交政策，包括它与伊朗接触的意愿，这种意愿引起了邻国沙特的愤怒。上周，卡塔尔政府与沙特阿拉伯和其他一些国家一道，表示支持由埃及军方确立的过渡政府，尽管卡塔尔在穆兄会的盟友们，对他们所说的军事政变作出了强烈抗议。
“It’s starting to look as if the Qataris have ceased playing the role of troublemaker and freelancer in the region, and falling in behind the Saudis,” said Peter Harling, an adviser with the International Crisis Group. “Events are allowing the Saudis to assume a regional leadership role that no one else can play right now.”
“从发展态势来看，好像卡塔尔已经不再扮演该地区的惹是生非者和‘自由职业者’的角色，开始跟随沙特的步伐，”国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)顾问彼得·哈林(Peter Harling)表示。“一系列事件让沙特在本地区取得了领导地位，而目前来说其他国家还不具备这样的能力。”