CAIRO — Egypt said Thursday that it was prepared to send troops into Yemen as part of a Saudi-led campaign to drive back the Iranian-backed Houthi advance, signaling the growing likelihood of a protracted ground war on the tip of the Arabian Peninsula.
开罗——埃及周四表示准备向也门派兵，加入由沙特牵头的行动，以击退伊朗支持下的胡塞(Houthi)武装的进攻。这标志着，阿拉伯半岛最南端爆发一场旷日持久的地面战的可能性越来越大。
A day after Saudi Arabia and a coalition of nine other states began hammering the Houthis with airstrikes and blockading the Yemeni coast, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt said in a statement that the country’s navy and air force had joined the campaign and that its army was ready to send ground troops “if necessary.”
此前一天，沙特阿拉伯和另外九个国家组成的联盟开始动用空袭手段攻击胡塞，并封锁也门海岸。埃及总统阿卜杜勒·法塔赫-塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)在声明中表示，埃及的海军和空军已加入了行动，“如有必要”陆军还愿意派出地面部队。
The Associated Press, citing unnamed military officials, reported that plans for an Egyptian invasion were already underway, and many analysts had already concluded that airstrikes alone had little chance of pushing back the Houthis.
美联社(The Associated Press)援引未具名军方官员的话报道，埃及已在制订出兵方案，而且很多分析人士也已断定，单凭空袭击退胡塞的可能性微乎其微。
Saudi news media declared that the offensive, which began Wednesday night, had fully disabled the Houthi-aligned Yemeni Air Force.
沙特的新闻媒体宣称，始于周三晚间的进攻让与胡塞结盟的也门空军彻底陷入瘫痪。
Iran, Saudi Arabia’s regional rival and the Houthis’ main ally, denounced the assault as an American-backed attempt “to foment civil war in Yemen or disintegrate the country.” Houthi-controlled television channels broadcast footage of dead bodies and wounded civilians, blaming “American-backed aggression.”
作为沙特阿拉伯在该地区的竞争对手及胡塞的主要盟友，伊朗谴责此次进攻得到了美国的支持，企图“在也门挑起内战或是让其瓦解”。由胡塞控制的电视频道播放了遇难者尸体和受伤平民的画面，将其归咎于“美国撑腰的侵略之举”。
The movement’s leaders warned that the battle could widen into a regional conflict, but they also vowed to overcome the Saudi attacks without Iranian help. “The Yemeni people are prepared to face this aggression without any foreign interference,” Mohammed al-Bukhaiti, a Houthi spokesman, told Reuters.
该组织的领导人警告战斗可能会扩大成一场地区性冲突，但他们也发誓要不借助伊朗的帮助来打败沙特的进攻。“也门人民准备好了在不受任何外来干涉的情况下面对这场侵略，”胡塞的发言人穆罕默德·布卡哈提(Mohammed al-Bukhaiti)对路透社(Reuters)表示。
Prices for crude oil rose about 4 percent on Thursday over concerns that the fighting in Yemen might affect the passage of tankers through the Bab el Mandeb strait, a narrow chokepoint between Yemen and Africa that is the entrance to the Red Sea.
周四，由于担心也门境内的战争可能会影响油轮在曼德海峡的通行，原油价格上涨了约4%。曼德海峡是位于也门和非洲之间的一个狭窄要塞，也是进入红海的入口。
Along with Iraq, Libya and Syria, Yemen is the fourth Arab nation where an attempt to build a new democracy has been consumed by civil conflict, regional proxy wars and the expansion of extremist groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda.
继伊拉克、利比亚和叙利亚之后，也门是第四个建立民主新政权的努力严重受挫的阿拉伯国家。打击这种努力的包括国内冲突、地区性的代理人战争，以及伊斯兰国(Islamic State)和基地组织(Al Qaeda)等极端组织的扩张。
The Houthi leadership, which hails from northern Yemen, practices a variant of Shiite Islam, the religion of the Iranian theocracy. Saudi Arabia, the region’s Sunni Muslim power, is backing forces loyal to President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, who has fled the capital, Sana, and has taken refuge among his supporters in the south.
来自也门北部的胡塞领导层，奉行的宗教为伊斯兰教什叶派的分支，而什叶派正是伊朗神权政权信奉的宗教。该地区的逊尼派穆斯林大国沙特阿拉伯，正在支持忠于也门总统阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi)的部队。哈迪本人已逃离了首都萨那，在南部的支持者当中避难。
The Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani, criticized the airstrikes and said, “Regional countries should restrain from any actions which may intensify the crisis,” the presidential website reported.
伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的官方网站表示，鲁哈尼谴责空袭行动，声称“本地区的国家不应从事任何可能加剧危机的行为”。
Mr. Rouhani added, “We should make extensive efforts for three aims: stopping military interference in Yemen, preventing any opportunities for terrorists to take control, and helping setting up a sovereign government.”
鲁哈尼还称，“我们应该为了以下三个目标展开广泛努力：停止在也门的军事干涉、遏止恐怖分子取得控制权的任何机会，以及协助成立一个主权政府。”
The Saudi Arabian-led military intervention immediately raised the threat that Iran might retaliate by increasing its own support for the Houthis with money and weapons — as Tehran has in the past — or with a more active military role, escalating the violence. But the struggle for Yemen is more than merely a sectarian conflict or a regional proxy war, in part because of the singular role of Ali Abudullah Saleh, the country’s former strongman.
由沙特拉伯牵头的军事干涉行动，立刻加剧了伊朗施以报复的风险，可能导致暴力升级。伊朗或许会通过像过去那样提供资金和武器，或是扮演更积极的军事角色，来加大对胡塞的支持。不过，也门之争不仅仅是一场宗派冲突或是地区性的代理战争。这在一定程度上是因为也门的前铁腕人物阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ali Abdullah Saleh)扮演的独特角色。
Mr. Saleh left power under pressure from an Arab Spring uprising under a transitional plan brokered by Saudi Arabia and the other Persian Gulf states. As president, he fought wars against the Houthis and at times appeared to ally with Saudis against Iran.
在阿拉伯之春反抗运动的压力下，萨利赫按照沙特阿拉伯等波斯湾国家促成的一项过渡方案的要求下台。担任总统期间，他发动过打击胡塞的战争，有时似乎还会和沙特联手对付伊朗。
But he is a member of the same Shiite sect as the Houthis, and he has now struck an alliance with them in an apparent bid to restore himself and his family to power. He has helped lead units of the Yemeni military and security services to swing to the side of the Houthis against his successor, Mr. Hadi, and analysts say Mr. Saleh has played a much more critical role than Iran has in enabling the Houthi advance.
然而，他和胡塞一样，同属什叶派，并且现在还和他们结成了联盟，看来是企图让他本人及家族恢复权位。他协助带领也门军方和安全部门的多支队伍，转投胡塞的阵营，反对他的继任者哈迪。分析人士称，在帮助胡塞推进方面，萨利赫起到的作用要比伊朗重要得多。
Some of the Houthi allies have even begun calling for the election of the former president’s eldest son, Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh, as Yemen’s next leader. An ambassador to the United Arab Emirates and a former commander of Yemen’s elite Republican Guard, the face of the younger Mr. Saleh now appears on billboards around Houthi-controlled Sana urging his selection as the country’s next president.
胡塞的一些盟友甚至开始呼吁选举这位前总统的长子艾哈迈德·阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ahmed Ali Abdullah Saleh)担任也门的下一任领导人。小萨利赫是驻阿拉伯联合酋长国大使，曾担任也门精锐部队共和国卫队的指挥官。在胡塞控制的萨那各处，他的头像被印在了广告牌上，呼吁民众选举他为国家的下一任总统。
The United States and most Arab nations moved quickly to support the Saudi-led operation in Yemen, which Saudi Arabia is calling Operation Decisive Storm.
美国和多数阿拉伯国家立即支持了沙特牵头的也门行动。沙特将其称为“果断风暴行动”(Operation Decisive Storm)。
The White House said in a statement that the United States would provide “logistical and intelligence support” to the Saudi-led military operations. “While U.S. forces are not taking direct military action in Yemen in support of this effort, we are establishing a joint planning cell with Saudi Arabia to coordinate U.S. military and intelligence support,” Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, said in a statement.
白宫发表声明称，美国将向沙特牵头的这项军事行动提供“后勤和情报支持”。国家安全委员会(National Security Council)发言人贝尔纳黛特·米汉(Bernadette Meehan)在另一份声明中表示，“尽管美国部队没有在也门采取直接的军事行动来支持该计划，但我们正在与沙特阿拉伯建立一个联合规划部门，以协调美国的军事和情报支持。”
“The United States strongly condemns ongoing military actions taken by the Houthis against the elected government of Yemen,” she said.
“我们强烈呼吁胡塞立即终止破坏稳定的军事行动，作为政治对话的一方回到谈判中来，”米汉说。“一个武装派别暴力占领也门是不可接受的。只有通过各方的政治协商并达成共识，才能实现合法的政治过渡。这也是也门人民的长期心愿。”
“We strongly urge the Houthis to halt immediately their destabilizing military actions and return to negotiations as part of the political dialogue,” Ms. Meehan said. “The violent takeover of Yemen by an armed faction is unacceptable and a legitimate political transition — long sought by the Yemeni people — can be accomplished only through political negotiations and a consensus agreement among all of the parties.”
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)正在瑞士洛桑与伊朗外长就核协议举行会谈。他周四与沙特阿拉伯、阿联酋、卡塔尔、科威特、巴林和阿曼的外长召开了电话会议，共同探讨也门局势。国务院的一名官员透露，克里“对这一联盟针对胡塞采取的军事行动努力表示赞赏”。
In Lausanne, Switzerland, where he is meeting with Iran’s foreign minister on a nuclear accord, Secretary of State John Kerry held a conference call on Thursday to discuss the situation in Yemen with the foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Oman. Mr. Kerry “commended the work of the coalition taking military action against the Houthis,” a State Department official said.
国务院后来主动宣布，美国的支持不仅包括情报共享和后勤支援，还包括“协助确定攻击目标”。
The State Department later went out of its way to make public that the American support includes not only intelligence sharing and logistical help but also “targeting assistance.”
加入了沙特的军事行动的还有波斯湾的四个君主制国家——巴林、科威特、卡塔尔和阿联酋——以及与之结盟的阿拉伯王国约旦和摩洛哥。
Four other Persian Gulf monarchies, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, joined the Saudi operation, as well as the allied Arab kingdoms of Jordan and Morocco.
在波斯湾国家中，只有阿曼拒绝参与。沙特拥有的阿拉伯电视台(Al-Arabiya)称，在地区之外的巴基斯坦和苏丹两国也参加了沙特的行动。这或多或少出乎了外界的意料。
Of the Persian Gulf states, only Oman declined to participate. Two other less expected nations outside the immediate region — Pakistan and Sudan — took part as well, according to the Saudi-owned Al Arabiya network.
土耳其外交部发布了一份声明，表示己方支持这项军事行动，并称这是“基于合法当选的也门总统哈迪的请求。”
The Turkish foreign ministry issued a statement saying Turkey supports the military operation, which it described as “based on the request of legitimately elected Yemeni President Hadi.”
据阿拉伯电视台报道，沙特阿拉伯为也门的行动部署了100架战机、15万士兵和海军部队，而其盟友在此规模的基础上还贡献了至少85架战机和其他一些军事支持。不过，迄今为止，这场军事行动仅限于空袭。