CAIRO — Gathering Thursday morning around a mosque used as a morgue for hundreds killed the day before, many Islamists waited confidently for a surge of sympathetic support from the broader public. But it failed to materialize.
开罗——周四早晨，很多伊斯兰主义者聚集在一个安置着前一天遇难的数百民众的尸体的清真寺周围，满怀信心地等待获得更多民众的高涨同情及支持。但是，他们的愿望没有实现。
With their leaders jailed or silent, Islamists reeled in shock at the worst mass killing in Egypt’s modern history. By Thursday night, health officials had counted 638 dead and nearly 4,000 injured, but the final toll was expected to rise further.
由于领导人要么被监禁，要么保持沉默，伊斯兰主义者茫然失措，不知如何应对埃及现代历史中最惨烈的大屠杀事件。到周四夜间，据卫生官员统计，已有638人死亡，将近4000人受伤，但最终的死亡人数预计还会进一步增加。
A tense quiet settled over Cairo as the city braced for new protests by the supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi, after Friday Prayer. The new government authorized the police to respond with lethal force if they felt endangered.
开罗正在等待被罢黜总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者在主麻日聚礼(Friday Prayer)结束后展开的新一轮抗议活动，城市里笼罩着一种紧张的寂静。新政府授权警方，可以在感觉面临危险的情况下使用致命性武器。
Many of those waiting outside the makeshift morgue talked of civil war. Some blamed members of Egypt’s Coptic Christian minority for supporting the military takeover. A few argued openly for a turn to violence.
很多在临时停尸房外等待的人谈到了内战。一些人指责科普特基督教(Coptic Christian)少数派支持军方掌权。一些人公开支持诉诸暴力。
“The solution might be an assassination list,” said Ahmed, 27, who like others refused to use his full name for fear of reprisals from the new authorities. “Shoot anyone in uniform. It doesn’t matter if the good is taken with the bad, because that is what happened to us last night.”
“解决方法兴许是列出一个暗杀名单，”27岁的艾哈迈德(Ahmed)说。“射杀所有身穿制服的人。即便好人跟着坏人遭了殃也不要紧，因为我们昨晚经历了同样的事情。”艾哈迈德像其他人一样不愿使用全名，担心遭到新政府的报复。
Mohamed Rasmy, a 30-year-old engineer, interrupted. “That is not the solution,” he said, insisting that Islamist leaders would re-emerge with a plan “to come together in protest.” Despite the apparently wide support for the police action by the private news media and much of Cairo, he argued that the bloodshed was now turning the rest of the public against the military-appointed government.
30岁的穆罕默德·拉斯米(Mohamed Rasmy)插嘴说，“这不是解决办法。”他坚称，伊斯兰领导人将会通过“集体抗议”的计划再次崛起。尽管警方的行动似乎获得了私营新闻媒体及许多开罗人的广泛支持，但他还是辩称，到现在，流血事件将会促使其他民众反对军方指定的政府。
“It is already happening,” he said.
他说，“这样的转变已经开始了。”
The outcome of the internal Islamist debate may now be the most critical variable in deciding the next phase of the crisis. The military-backed government has made clear its determination to demonize and repress the Islamists with a ruthlessness exceeding even that of Gamal Abdel Nasser, the autocrat who first outlawed the Muslim Brotherhood six decades ago.
目前，伊斯兰主义者内部争论的结果或许是决定埃及危机下一阶段走向的最重要变数。军方支持的政府已经明确表明了自己的决心，即通过无情的手段妖魔化并压制伊斯兰主义者，残忍程度甚至超过了贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)，60年前，这名独裁者首次将穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)列为非法组织。
How the Islamists respond will inevitably reshape both their movement and Egypt. Will they resume the accommodationist tactics of the Muslim Brotherhood under former President Hosni Mubarak, escalate their street protests despite continued casualties, or turn to armed insurgency as some did in the 1990s?
伊斯兰主义者的应对方式必然会对他们的运动及埃及带来改变。他们会继续利用穆斯林兄弟会在前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)统治时期使用的妥协策略，在伤亡持续增加的情况下继续加强街头抗议吗？还是会诉诸武装叛乱，像一些人在20世纪90年代所做的那样呢？
President Obama, interrupting a weeklong vacation to address the bloodshed, stopped short of suspending the $1.3 billion in annual American military aid to Egypt but canceled joint military exercises scheduled to take place in a few months.
为了应对此次流血事件，奥巴马总统中断了为期一周的假期。他没有暂停美国每年向埃及提供的13亿美元（约合79亿元人民币）的军事援助，但取消了原定于几个月之后进行的联合军演。
In Europe, some officials called for a suspension of aid by the European Union, and at least one member state, Denmark, cut off support. The British and French summoned their Egyptian ambassadors to condemn the violence. In Ankara, Turkey, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, an ideological ally of Mr. Morsi’s, called for an early meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss what he called a “massacre.”
在欧洲，一些官员呼吁欧盟暂停援助，至少有一个欧盟成员国——丹麦——已经切断了支援。英国和法国召回了驻埃及大使，以此谴责暴力事件。在土耳其安卡拉，总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)呼吁联合国安全理事会(United Nations Security Council)尽早召开会议，讨论他所说的“屠杀事件”。埃尔多安是穆尔西的意识形态盟友。
Egyptian Islamists continued to lash out across the country. Scores of them blocked a main highway circling the capital. In Alexandria, hundreds battled with opponents and the police in the streets and health officials said at least nine died. Others hurled firebombs that ignited a provincial government headquarters near the pyramids in Giza. In the latest in a string of attacks on Coptic Christian churches and businesses, at least one more church was set fire, in Fayoum.
埃及的伊斯兰主义者仍然在全国各地进行抗议。几十名伊斯兰主义者阻断了环绕开罗的一条主要公路。在亚历山大港，几百人在街道上与反对者和警方作战，卫生部官员说至少已有9人死亡。还有人投掷燃烧弹，使位于吉萨金字塔群附近的一座省政府大楼着了火。在最新一轮的袭击中，他们对科普特基督教堂和科普特人的商铺发动了袭击，在法尤姆，至少又有一座教堂遭到焚烧。
Outside the mosque in Cairo, some Islamists contended that the Coptic pope, Tawadros II, had appeared to endorse the crackdown, and they portrayed attacks on churches around the country as a counterattack. “When Pope Tawadros comes out after a massacre to thank the military and the police, then don’t accuse me of sectarianism,” said Mamdouh Hamdi, 35, an accountant.
在开罗的清真寺外，一些伊斯兰主义者辩称，科普特牧首塔瓦德鲁斯二世(Tawadros II)似乎认可了镇压行动。他们还把针对埃及各地教堂的袭击称为反击。35岁的会计师马姆杜·哈姆迪(Mamdouh Hamdi)说，“如果塔瓦德鲁斯牧首在大屠杀后出来感谢军方和警察，那就不要用宗派主义来对我横加指责。”
The Islamist movement, usually known here for its tight discipline, appeared to slip loose from its leaders, entering perilous new ground, said Ali Farghaly, 47, an executive at a multinational company who was waiting outside the mosque. “Forget the leaders now,” he said. “The streets are leading this, and when things get out of the control of the leaders no one can predict the situation.”
47岁的跨国公司管理人员阿里·法尔加利(Ali Farghaly)正在清真寺外等候，他说，伊斯兰主义运动在当地一向以纪律严明著称，现在却似乎脱离了领导人的控制，进入了危险的新阶段。“现在忘了领导人吧，”他说。“左右局面的是大街上的情形，如果事情不再受领导人控制，没人能预测情况将会如何。”
But if the Islamists hoped that Wednesday’s violence would turn the rest of the country against the military-dominated government, there were few signs of it on Thursday. Mohamed ElBaradei, the interim vice president and a Nobel Prize-winner, was the only official to resign over the crackdown, and he was widely criticized for it in both the state and the private media.
然而，要说伊斯兰主义者希望周三的暴力事件激起其他国民对由军方控制的政府的反对情绪，周四却看不到什么此类迹象。曾获诺贝尔奖的临时副总统穆罕默德·巴拉迪(Mohamed ElBaradei)是唯一一个因为镇压行动而辞职的官员，并且因为此事在国家和私营媒体上受到了广泛批评。
The ultraconservative Nour Party, the liberal April 6 group and the far-left Revolutionary Socialists spoke out against the killings. But most other political factions denounced the Islamists as a terrorist threat and applauded the government action.
极端保守的光明党(Nour party)、自由派的4月6日组织和极左的革命社会主义者(Revolutionary Socialists)都公开谴责了杀戮行为。但是，大多数其他政治团体则将伊斯兰主义者指为恐怖主义威胁，并且对政府的行动表示赞赏。
By late morning, patches of blackened ground were still smoldering on the grounds where tens of thousands had camped for the six weeks since Mr. Morsi’s ouster. More than 240 bodies lay in neat rows in the mosque-turned-morgue, wrapped in white sheets as teams moved coffins in and out to remove the dead for burial.
在穆尔西被罢黜后的六周内，成千上万名埃及人曾在一些地方扎营抗议。直到将近中午的时候，他们扎营之处的一块块烧焦土地仍在冒烟。在权充停尸房的清真寺里，240多具尸体排列得整整齐齐，尸体上包裹着白色的床单，人们把棺材搬进搬出，把死者送去埋葬。
Many were charred beyond recognition by the fires that Egyptian security forces set to eradicate the tent city. Some had blocks of ice on their chest to slow decomposition in the intense midday heat and volunteers moved through the room spraying antiseptic. Behind a display of recovered identification cards used to aid identifications, a young boy slept amid the dead.
埃及安全部队为铲除帐篷区而纵了火，很多人都被火烧焦，乃至根本无法识别。中午天气十分炎热，有人把冰块放在了一些死者的胸口，以减缓腐烂的速度。志愿者在屋子里来来回回，喷洒着杀菌剂。为了帮助识别伤亡者身份，工作人员对找到的身份证进行了展示，在展示地点后面，一个小男孩就睡在死者当中。
Hundreds had gathered outside to try to find missing friends of relatives, or to stand in solidarity with the lost. A voice over a loudspeaker repeatedly urged the crowd to disperse, to march off with the departing coffins. A sign on the door pointedly declared that the assembly was not a sit-in or a demonstration but just a place to claim the dead, presumably to avoid attracting another police crackdown.
外面聚集了数百人，他们或是来寻找失踪亲友，或是来表示对死者的支持。喇叭里的声音反复要求人们散去，与送出去的棺材一同离开。门上的标识特别指出，这个人群聚集的地方既非静坐抗议，也非示威活动地点，只是个认领死者的场所。这样说或许是为了防止警方发动另一轮袭击。
After the 9 p.m. curfew, the police moved in, firing tear gas into the mosque, seizing control and removing the remaining bodies, television news coverage showed. It was not clear where they were taken, or why.
电视上的新闻报道显示，晚上9点宵禁以后，警察进来了。他们向清真寺投掷催泪瓦斯，控制了现场，并且转移了尚未运走的尸体。目前尚不清楚他们为何转移尸体，也不清楚尸体的去向。