Egypt’s interim president said on Sunday that a presidential election could be held before voting for parliamentary seats, raising the possibility that the country’s military-backed government was preparing to deviate from the transitional plan it unveiled after the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi in July.
上周日，埃及临时总统表示，可能会在对议会席位进行投票之前进行总统选举。今年7月埃及前总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)被罢黜后，军方支持的临时政府推出了一个过渡计划，现在看来，他们偏离这个计划可能性增加了。
The plan had called for parliamentary elections to be held first, after a constitutional referendum. The government has repeatedly emphasized its commitment to the transitional plan, offering it as evidence of its support for democracy.
该计划曾主张，在对宪法修订提案进行全民公决之后，先进行议会选举。埃及临时政府一再强调遵循过渡计划的决心，将这作为自己支持民主的证据。
Analysts have said that switching the order of the elections could help Egypt’s leaders maintain tighter control over the outcome, by allowing the newly elected president to influence the makeup of Parliament, possibly by forming a political party. One of the most frequently mentioned candidates for president is Egypt’s defense minister, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, though he has not said whether he will run.
分析人士表示，更换选举顺序有助于埃及领导者更好地控制选举结果，因为新当选的总统可以通过组建政党或者其他方式来影响议会的组成。埃及国防部长阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)是最常被提及的总统候选人，虽然他还没有表示是否参选。
The interim president, Adly Mansour, said on Sunday that holding the presidential vote first would be legal, state media reported. Both the presidential and parliamentary elections would be held within six months of the ratification of a draft constitution, he said. A referendum on the charter will be held in January.
埃及官方媒体报道，临时总统阿兹利·曼苏尔(Adly Mansour)上周日说，首先举行总统选举是合法的。无论是总统还是议会选举，都会在宪法修订提案获得批准后的六个月内举行，他说。宪章公投将于明年1月举行。
In the past week, the government has moved forcefully to eliminate its principal foe, the Muslim Brotherhood, which had been Egypt’s most successful political party in elections after the fall of Hosni Mubarak in 2011. On Wednesday, the government designated the Brotherhood as a terrorist group, outlawing its activities and even membership in the organization. Days of unrest have followed the decision, including protests by Brotherhood supporters on the campus of Al-Azhar University in Cairo.
上周，埃及政府采取了强有力的行动，打击其主要政敌穆斯林兄弟会。自从2011年胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)垮台后，穆兄会一直是选举中最成功的政党。上周三，临时政府将穆兄会定性为恐怖组织，取缔其活动，连加入穆兄会也被定为非法。该决定发布后，埃及出现了数日的动荡，比如穆兄会的支持者就在爱资哈尔大学(Al-Azhar University)举行了抗议活动。
The government announced its decision after blaming the Brotherhood for a bombing that killed 16 people, even though a different group claimed responsibility.
在宣布这个决定之前，临时政府指责穆兄会制造了一起致死16人的爆炸案，即便有另外一个组织声称对此事负责。
Michael Wahid Hanna, a fellow at the Century Foundation in New York, said the government “seized on the moment and the grotesque nature of the attack” to accomplish several goals. While hard-liners in the security services aim to eradicate the Brotherhood, the terrorist designation gives other officials a “rhetorical” tool to stir interest in the coming elections, Mr. Hanna said. It also provides them with a firmer legal basis to detain protesters and further suppress dissent ahead of the vote, he said.
纽约世纪基金(Century Foundation)的埃及问题学者迈克尔·瓦希德·汉纳(Michael Wahid Hanna)表示，临时政府“抓住时机，利用那次攻击的恐怖主义性质”来达成几个目标。汉纳说，虽然安全部队中的强硬派希望根除穆兄会，但把它定义为恐怖组织给其他官员提供了言论的工具，来激发对未来选举的兴趣。他说，这也为他们在投票前羁押示威者，进一步镇压异见者提供了更坚实的法律基础。
As the government tries to consolidate its power, it has faced an unexpectedly sharp challenge from militant groups that have been able to strike security targets at will. On Sunday, a car bomb exploded outside a military intelligence building north of Cairo, wounding at least five people and causing part of the building to collapse.
在试图巩固权力的过程中，埃及政府面临着一个意外艰险的挑战：武装组织有能力随意打击安全目标。上周日，一个汽车炸弹在开罗北部的军事情报大楼外爆炸，炸伤至少五人，并造成该建筑物部分坍塌。
It was the third such bombing in less than a week, suggesting a quickening pace but also a growing sophistication in the militant attacks. Interior Ministry officials said the bomb appeared to have been detonated by a timer, or by remote control.
这样的爆炸已经是一周之内的第三次，显示了武装分子的袭击不仅节奏在加快，手法也变得更加老练。埃及内政部官员说，这颗炸弹似乎是由计时器或者是远程控制方式引爆的。