CAIRO — In an eerie coincidence, the EgyptAir jetliner that plunged into the Mediterranean on Thursday was once the target of political vandals who wrote in Arabic on its underside, “We will bring this plane down.”
开罗——上周四坠入地中海的埃及航空公司(EgyptAir)客机曾经遭到过政治活动人士的破坏，这样的巧合令人不寒而栗。当时那些人用阿拉伯语在机身下面写着：“我们要把这架飞机弄下来。”
Three EgyptAir security officials said the threatening graffiti, which appeared about two years ago, had been the work of aviation workers at Cairo Airport. Playing on the phonetic similarity between the last two letters in the plane’s registration, SU-GCC, and the surname of Egypt’s president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, some workers also wrote “traitor” and “murderer.”
埃航的三名安全官员说，这些威胁性的涂鸦大约在两年前出现，是开罗机场的航空工人写的，因为这架飞机的注册名是SU-GCC，最后两个字母与埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)的姓氏读音相似。一些工人还写上了“叛徒”和“凶手”。
The officials, who were interviewed separately and who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the airline’s security procedures because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said the graffiti had been linked to the domestic Egyptian political situation at the time rather than to a militant threat. Similar graffiti against Mr. Sisi, a former general, was scrawled across Cairo after the military ousted the elected president, Mohamed Morsi, in 2013.
这些官员分别接受了采访，因为没有获得公开谈论该航空公司安全措施的授权，他们都不愿具名。三人表示，那些涂鸦和当时埃及国内的政治局势有关，不属于激进式威胁。塞西之前是个将军，军方在2013年推翻民选总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)之后，开罗到处都有类似的涂鸦。
Since then, the airline has put into effect a variety of new security measures in response to Egypt’s political turmoil, jihadist violence and other aviation disasters like the crash of a Russian plane that killed 224 people in October. EgyptAir has fired employees for their political leanings, stepped up crew searches and added extra unarmed in-flight security guards. Three such guards died in Thursday’s crash of Flight 804.
自那之后，埃航新增了多种安全措施，来应对埃及的政治动荡、圣战暴力以及其他航空灾难——比如去年10月俄罗斯飞机坠毁致224人丧生的那场空难。埃航解雇了政治倾向明显的员工，加强了登机安检，还增加了不带武器的飞行安全警卫人数。上周四坠机的804航班上就有三个这样的警卫丧生。
Whether those moves were sufficient remained an open question on Saturday as experts pored over data emitted by the plane in its final minutes for clues as to what had brought it down. The French air accident investigation authority confirmed that the data showed that several smoke alarms had been activated while the plane plunged toward the sea.
这些措施是否已经足够，截至上周六仍是存在疑问的，专家们对飞机最后关头发送的数据进行研究，希望找到有关坠机原因的线索。法国航空事故调查部门证实，数据显示，在飞机坠入大海的时候，有几个烟雾报警器已被激活。
But they cautioned that the signals, sent by a monitoring system on board the Airbus A320 jetliner, did not offer enough information to conclude what had caused the crash.
但他们也告诫说，这些信号是通过这架空客A320的机上监控系统发送的，它们没有提供足够的信息，难以从中推断出坠机原因。
“These are not messages that enable us to interpret anything,” said Sébastien Barthe, a spokesman for France’s Bureau of Investigations and Analysis. “If there is smoke, it means that there is potentially a fire somewhere, but it doesn’t tell us where the fire is, and it doesn’t help us establish whether it is something malevolent or something technical.”
“我们无法靠这些消息来解释任何东西，”法国调查与分析局(Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)发言人塞巴斯蒂安·巴特(Sébastien Barthe)说。“如果有烟雾，就可能有什么东西在燃烧，但这并不能告诉我们是哪里起了火，也不能帮助我们确定它属于恶意破坏还是技术故障。”
In an audio message released Saturday, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, the official spokesman of the Islamic State and the head of a unit dedicated to external attacks, denounced the American-led military campaign against the group but did not mention the EgyptAir crash.
在上周六发布的一段音频中，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)官方发言人、专门负责应对外部攻击的阿布·穆罕默德·阿德纳尼(Abu Mohammed al- Adnani)谴责美国领导军事行动打击他们，但没有提到埃及航空公司的坠机事件。