WITHIN a two-block radius on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, three pedestrians have lost their lives in separate traffic accidents since Jan. 1. Nineteen more have been killed elsewhere in the city since the beginning of the year. Those 22 are just the latest in the city’s epidemic of traffic fatalities. Last year 176 pedestrians were killed by cars and trucks in the city, according to police data, the most since 2008.
自1月1日以来，在曼哈顿上西城一处半径为两个街区的区域内，就有三名行人在不同的交通事故中丧命。今年年初以来，还有19人在纽约的其他地方遇难。这22个人只是纽约市大量的交通死亡事故中的最新案例。警方数据显示，去年，该市有176名行人被小汽车或卡车撞死，这是自2008年以来的最高数字。
Recently, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a new campaign against traffic fatalities, called Vision Zero, including more ticketing, lower speed limits and redesigning intersections. Meanwhile, the police have cracked down on jaywalkers and put up signs and barriers encouraging people to cross with the light, and the department is investing in equipment like laser speed guns and speed and red light cameras. These are all good ideas. But the problem isn’t just inadequate policing, distracted pedestrians or reckless motorists. It’s that the design of our streets does not match the way they are being used.
最近，纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)宣布了一项针对交通死亡事故的新行动——“零死亡愿景”(Vision Zero)，措施包括开更多罚单，降低最高限速，重新设计十字路口。与此同时，警方也已经开始处罚乱穿马路的行人，放置指示牌和栅栏，鼓励人们按照红绿灯过马路。纽约市警察局正在购入激光测速枪、测速和红灯摄像头。这都是些好主意。但问题不只是警方监控不足、行人注意力不集中、司机鲁莽大意，问题在于街道的设计不符合它们的使用方式。
In urban planning circles, city streets are generally considered to be among the safest kind of roadways. They tend to have narrower lanes, a lot of right angles and a lot of general hustle and bustle — “social friction,” as transportation planners call it. There are trees, parked cars and other “fixed objects,” all things drivers need to navigate around with more precision than, say, a wide open country road.
在城市规划领域，城市街道通常被认为是最安全的道路之一。它们往往设有较窄的车道，很多直角，一片熙熙攘攘的景象，交通规划人员称之为“社会摩擦”(social friction)。街道上有树、停放的汽车和其他“固定物体”，与宽阔的乡村道路相比，司机需要更加精确地驾驶，绕过这些东西。
New York City is full of such streets. So why are pedestrian fatalities increasing?
纽约市到处都是这样的街道。那为什么行人死亡事故在不断增加呢？
Consider where the majority of the pedestrian fatalities are happening. Last year, Queens was the deadliest borough for pedestrians, with many of the deaths happening on wide, fast-moving arteries like Northern Boulevard, the Cross Island Parkway and Queens Boulevard.
让我们看看大多数行人死亡事故发生在哪里。去年，皇后区是行人死亡事故最多的一个区，很多事故发生在宽阔的主干道上，这些道路上车速较快，比如北方大道(Northern Boulevard)、跨岛快速道路(Cross Island Parkway)和皇后大道(Queens Boulevard)。
The Bronx, also home to many of these thoroughfares, had the biggest increase last year, more than double the number in 2012. The fatalities have also occurred on scenic but fast-moving roadways like Prospect Park West in Brooklyn or West End Avenue in Manhattan.
布朗克斯区也有很多这样的道路，该区去年交通死亡事故的增长率最高，是2012年的两倍多。布鲁克林展望公园西路(Prospect Park West)、曼哈顿西端大道(West End Avenue)等风景优美、车速较快的道路上也发生了很多死亡事故。
These streets are not intimate village blocks; they are major corridors that more closely resemble arterial roads, those fast-moving stretches of four- to eight-lane thoroughfares that connect one suburban town to another, on which cars travel up to 60 miles an hour.
这些道路不是紧密的乡间街区，这些主要道路更像是交通动脉。这些有四到八条车道的快速道路连接着各个郊区城镇，车速限制为60英里每小时（约合96公里每小时）。
Such roads are famously dangerous for pedestrians. Eric Dumbaugh, the director of the School of Urban and Regional Planning at Florida Atlantic University, has found that every additional mile of arterial road increases traffic fatalities by as much as 15 percent.
对于行人来说，这些道路极其危险。佛罗里达大西洋大学(Florida Atlantic University)城市与区域规划学院(School of Urban and Regional Planning)院长埃里克·邓博(Eric Dumbaugh)发现，主干道每增加一英里，交通死亡事故的增加幅度最高可达15%。
But New York City’s fast-moving roadways are different from suburban arterial roads in one big way: The cars share them with millions of pedestrians. We have roadways designed around the car, in a city teeming with ever more people on foot.
但纽约市的快速道路与郊区主干道有很大的不同：路上除了汽车，还有数百万的行人。在这个行人日益增多的城市，我们的道路却是围绕着汽车设计的。
Any comprehensive approach to traffic fatalities has to take aim at redesigning these roads. Queens Boulevard, for example, isn’t a city street; it is a highway masquerading as one. We should either call it a highway, and build medians, barriers or even pedestrian bridges, or treat it like a city street and make the lanes narrower, add more stoplights and crosswalks, and install obstacles and other elements of “social friction.” (Another tool: trees with branches that extend over the street creating a canopy that, like social friction, acts as a naturally occurring slowing device.)
任何减少交通死亡事故的综合方案都必须包括对道路的重新设计。例如，皇后大街不是一条城市街道，它其实是一条装扮成城市街道的高速公路。我们要么把它当成高速公路，设立隔离带和防护栏，甚至人行天桥，要么把它当做城市街道，缩窄车道，增加交通信号灯和人行横道，以及各种障碍物和其他类型的“社会摩擦”装置。（另一个方法：延伸到街道的树枝可以创造一个遮篷，充当自然的减速装置，就像社会摩擦装置一样。）
Transportation planners talk about the benefits of “street diets,” efforts to slim down car lanes and add elements like bike lanes, planters or pedestrian plazas with tables and chairs. Just look at the groundbreaking work of Janette Sadik-Khan, the former New York City transportation commissioner who re-engineered many of the city’s most sprawling intersections as public plazas, most famously turning the stretch of Broadway in Times Square into 2.5 acres of new pedestrian space. Injuries dropped by 40 percent in the wake of the changes.
道路规划者一直在谈论“道路瘦身”的种种好处。“街道瘦身”是指缩小机动车道，同时增加自行车道、花坛、以及步行广场等元素，广场上可以配备桌椅。看看前纽约市交通局长珍妮特·沙迪-汗(Janette Sadik-Khan)那些颇具开拓性的相关工作就知道了。她把这个城市许多庞大的交叉口重新设计成了公共广场，其中最负盛名的项目是，把纽约时报广场(Times Square)的那一段百老汇大道改成了新的、面积为2.5英亩的步行空间。在做出这些改变之后，车祸的伤亡率下降了40%。
These things don’t have to cost a lot of money: Ms. Sadik-Khan initially transformed Times Square with paint and lawn chairs. Besides, it seems like a natural opportunity for a big corporate donor to own a cause that’s just as noble as bike sharing, and will save lives.
这些举措不一定需要花很多钱：沙迪-汗最初只用油漆和长椅就改造了时报广场。除此之外，这似乎是大企业参与公益事业的良机，而这个事业与公共自行车同样崇高，而且还能挽救生命。
It is wrong to place all the blame on drivers for going fast on roads that are designed for them to do just that, and it’s unfair to blame pedestrians for not being careful enough when they are behaving exactly as smart, sensible pedestrians behave. The problem is how we are mixing the two together.
我们不能把所有责任都归咎于司机开车太快。有些道路就是用来让车辆快速行驶的。怪行人不够小心也是不公平的，他们已经很机警、很警惕了。真正的问题在于，我们把车和行人混在了一块。
All the pedestrian warnings in the world won’t matter if we’re encouraging foot traffic where motorists are hitting highway speeds. It’s like removing all the guardrails at the top of the Empire State Building and expecting people to use common sense not to fall off.
如果我们在机动车司机可以全速行驶的地方鼓励人们步行，放置再多针对行人的安全提醒也没有意义。这就好像把帝国大厦楼顶的围栏拆掉、然后让人们靠常识来避免失足跌落一样。
Traffic fatalities are not like some of our most vexing public health issues with no obvious solution or cure, like autism or cancer. There is a clear and proven way to fix the problem. Why not go for the easy win that’s also the right thing to do? The path forward is obvious — and narrower, safer and better landscaped.
致人死亡的交通事故与那些最令人焦虑的公共卫生问题不同。这些公共卫生问题，比如自闭症或癌症，没有明显的解决办法。但要解决交通事故的问题，已经有了一个清晰，并且行之有效的方法。既然能轻松解决问题，而且又是该做的事，何乐而不为呢？显而易见的是，未来的街道会更窄、更安全，而且风景更好。