Beyond the fence, the scene is a different one. Despite some recent development, Southeast’s Ward 7, where SEED is located, and neighboring Ward 8, remain the most impoverished parts of the city, with more than their share of tired liquor stores and low-slung public housing. In all of Ward 7, the 70,000 residents have just one sit-down restaurant, a Denny’s.
在围栏的那一头，景象大不相同。尽管近来得到了一些开发，但位于华盛顿特区东南角的第7区——这正是SEED学校所在的区域，以及邻近的第8区，仍是这座城市最贫困的地段，多的是潦倒的酒铺和低矮的公屋。在整个第7区，7万居民只能享用一间可以坐下来吃东西的餐厅，那是家丹尼斯连锁餐厅(Denny's)。
Every Sunday night, 325 students in grades 6 through 12, most of them African-American, most from single-parent, lower-income families in Southeast and Northeast, pass through the gates of SEED — the first inner-city public boarding school in the country, with admission by lottery. And for the next five days they do what other prep-school kids do: in uniforms of pressed khaki pants and polo shirts, they take classes in Spanish, precalculus, U.S. history and other subjects. They meet with staff members at the school’s College Café to talk about college applications. They spend their afternoons in chess clubs, on the basketball court or in poetry workshops.
每周日晚上，325名从6年级到12年级的学生会穿过SEED学校的大门，这是美国第一所位于市中心的公立寄宿学校，学生入学采用抽奖的方式，其中绝大多数是黑人，来自单亲家庭，家住城市东南和东北角，收入偏低。在接下来的五天里，他们要做的事情跟其他预科学校孩子无异：穿着熨烫整齐的卡其裤和翻领T恤制服，他们要上西班牙语、微积分学前课、美国历史和其他科目的课程。他们要在学校的学院咖啡厅里跟老师们会面，讨论大学申请事项。下午他们要去的是国际象棋俱乐部、篮球场或诗歌工作坊。
Then, after school on Friday, they head back home, lugging duffel bags, suitcases and garbage bags serving as suitcases. For 48 hours, they leave SEED’s protected, grassy campus to return to their neighborhoods — the ones that created the need for charter schools like SEED in the first place. That ongoing transition, from school to home and back again, symbolizes the school’s unwritten requirement of its students: to juggle and to navigate two different and often conflicting worlds.
接着，到了星期五的放学时间，他们拖着背包、行李箱或者充任行李箱的垃圾袋，各自回家。在接下来这48小时里，他们要离开学校受到保护、绿草成茵的校园，重返自己的社区——正是这些社区创造了人们对像SEED这一类特许学校的需求。从学校到家，再重返学校，这种周而复始的转换，象征着这所学校向学生们提出的不成文的要求：兼顾并徜徉在两种截然不同、时时冲突的世界中。
“Come on, baby, it’s late,” said a resident assistant, hands on her hips and old enough to be Reneka’s mother, as she stood in the doorway. Like all SEED students, Reneka belongs to a cluster of 12 to 15 students that is named after a college or university. The Howard House room Reneka and Quadidra Taylor shared was small and spare, with a desk, dresser and bed for each girl and a shared computer.
“快点，宝贝，要来不及了，”一位宿管助理双手插腰，站在门口，对瑞妮卡(Reneka)说。她的年纪足以作瑞妮卡的妈妈了。跟其他所有SEED的学生一样，瑞妮卡加入了12-15人的学生小组，每个小组以一所大学或学院的名字命名。瑞妮卡和夸迪德拉·泰勒(Quadidra Taylor)合住的霍华德小屋是间小而紧凑的宿舍，每个女生只有一桌、一台、一床，所有人共用一台电脑。
At 7:35, five minutes past the deadline to go to the dining hall for French toast, orange juice, apples and boxes of Golden Grahams, Reneka pulled on her uniform of khaki pants and a pale blue polo shirt. No plunging neckline, no huge hoop earrings, which are violations of the dress code. SEED’s 116-page Student-Parent Handbook, however, did say it “is not the intention of the school to regulate every aspect of a student’s individuality.” So Reneka put on her faux Chanel rhinestone earrings, slipped on a chunky chain bracelet and spritzed her body with perfume, from her neck to her ankles. She was ready for the school day.
早上7点35分，距离去餐厅吃饭的最后时间已经过了5分钟，餐厅提供的是法式吐司、橙汁、苹果和成盒的金格雷厄姆麦片(Golden Grahams)。瑞妮卡穿上了校服：卡其裤和浅蓝色的翻领T恤衫。她没穿低胸上衣，也没戴大大的耳环，否则就违反了学校的着装规定。SEED学校有一本厚达116页的学生家长手册，不过校方也表示，“学校无意约束学生个性的方方面面。”所以，瑞妮卡戴上了一副假香奈尔(Chanel)水钻耳环和一条粗大的手链，从脖子到脚踝都喷上了香水。现在，她做好上学的准备了。
The night before, I asked the girls about their weekend plans. “Chillin’, talkin’, walkin’,” Quadidra said. For Reneka, Friday nights were often catch-up time on all she missed during the school week: four- to five-hour stretches of MTV, VH1 and cable-TV karaoke, her favorite steak-and-cheese sandwich and 11 or 12 hours of sleep a night. By Saturday morning, she would be at her aunt’s apartment in Northeast, in jeans, strappy sandals and tidy cornrows, before heading out again, past the drug dealer in the stairwell on his cellphone, down the street lined with two- and three-story brick apartment complexes, including the one where a man killed his girlfriend and her children, until she landed at her friend’s house. There, she would sit on the front porch as her friend, who graduated from high school last year, braided her 1-year-old son’s hair. Reneka and her friend would talk about, among other things, the kinds of girls they were not: “rollers — skates with no brakes,” hopping from one boy’s bed to another.
前一天晚上，我问女生们她们周末是怎么过的。“放松、聊天、走路，”夸迪德拉说。至于瑞妮卡，周五晚上她往往要赶下所有上学时落下的东西：四五个小时不间断地看MTV、VH1和有线电视的卡拉OK频道，吃她最喜欢的牛排奶酪三明治，接着一口气狂睡11到12个小时。到了星期六早上，她会穿着牛仔裤、人字拖，扎着一丝不乱的玉米须辫子，去城里东北角的姨妈家。再次出门时，她会在楼梯间经过那个拿着手机的毒贩子，走过满是两三层砖瓦结构的公寓楼，在其中一间公寓里，一个男人杀死了自己的女友和她的孩子。最后，她来到了朋友家。在那里，她会跟这位去年从高中毕业的闺蜜一起坐在前院，给她1岁的儿子编头发。瑞妮卡跟闺蜜东拉西扯，也会聊起那种跟她们完全不同的姑娘：“荡妇——裤带松得不得了，”从一个男孩的床上跳到另一个。
Other SEED students stuck closer to home on weekends. They drifted away from the old friends who didn’t want to hear about their SAT scores or the eight college campuses they visited with SEED staff members. Those friends probably faced a different future: Maybe they would graduate from high school or get a G.E.D. They might land a cashier job at CVS or Safeway or find something more lucrative in the drug business.
其他SEED的学生在周末会尽量呆在家里。他们与老朋友渐行渐远，因为对方不愿意听自己念叨SAT成绩，或者是跟SEED的老师一起参观过的八所高校校园。这些老友或者要面对不一样的未来：他们可能将从高中毕业，或者拿到专科文凭，也许将在连锁电器店或药房找到一份收银员的工作，或者呢，也可能是在毒品行当谋一份来钱更快的差事。
Reneka’s boyfriend last year was that kind of neighborhood boy — a low-life, in Reneka’s estimation, who skipped school too much, smoked too much weed and would never amount to anything. I asked if he had ever visited her at SEED. Never, she said. SEED was her refuge from the drama of the neighborhood, the bridge between home and the bigger world, the place that would help her be the first in her family to go to college. “I know what I gotta do when I’m at SEED,” she told me. She could move between worlds. But, she said, “I don’t mix my worlds.”
去年，瑞妮卡的男朋友混迹于街头——他总是逃课、吸大麻，而且极其不靠谱，瑞妮卡觉得他是个上不得台面的人。我问他是否曾去SEED学校看过她。她说，从来没有。SEED是她远离所在社区的避难所，是联系家庭和更广阔世界的桥梁，是有可能帮助她成为家族里第一个大学生的地方。“我知道自己在SEED时该做些什么，”她告诉我。她可以在两个世界间穿梭。但是她说：“我不会把我的两个世界搅和在一起。”
When Eric Adler and Rajiv Vinnakota, both former management consultants, opened the SEED School of Washington, D.C., in 1998, they had students like Reneka in mind: students who contended not only with failing schools but also with the risks of their neighborhood during the nonschool hours. Last year, the SEED School’s foundation opened a Baltimore school, and plans to expand into other cities. Some critics, though, have balked at the expenditure — $35,000 per student, most from the city’s public funds — which, in theory, could be used to help more public schools and serve a greater number of students in nonboarding settings. And, of course, the ultimate goal should be to improve homes and neighborhoods enough so kids don’t need to leave.
1998年，前管理咨询顾问埃里克·艾德勒(Eric Adler)和拉吉夫·维纳科塔(Rajiv Vinnakota)在华盛顿特区开设了一所SEED学校，当时令他们牵挂的正是像瑞妮卡这样的学生：这些学生不仅要与摇摇欲坠的学校作半争，而且还要跟放学时在所在社区所经受的风险斗争。去年，SEED学校的基金会在巴尔的摩新建了一所学校，并计划扩展到其他城市。不过一些城市面对费用畏缩不前——每个学生3.5万美元，大部分由市里的公共基金来出——而这笔费用理论上可以用来帮助更多公立学校，并为非寄宿学校体系内的更广泛学生服务。此外，当然了，政府的终极计划本应是大力改善家庭与社区教育，这样一来，孩子们就不用离家上学了。
While SEED enrolls plenty of at-risk students, critics argue that SEED and other charter schools skim the cream of inner-city youth, attracting the families who are motivated to fill out the paperwork to apply to the school. Meanwhile, some of the most high-risk kids, whose parents are barely functional and place more value on their child’s being home every day to baby-sit or do housework than they do on education, are left behind.
尽管有为数众多处于危险中的孩子在SEED就学，但批评人士认为SEED和其他特许学校撇掉了市中心平民区年轻人中最重要的一部分，转而吸引那些为了能被学校录取有足够动力填完各种申请文件的家庭。而与此同时，一些最高危的孩子被漏掉了，这些孩子的家长几乎完全没有行使职责，而且认为孩子留在家里照顾弟妹或做家务，相比接受教育更有价值。
But SEED’s statistics have impressed fans of the school, including President Barack Obama, who called the school “a true success story”: at least 97 percent of SEED graduates are accepted to colleges, including Princeton, Alabama A&M and Connecticut College. And 90 percent of SEED graduates immediately enroll in college, compared with 56 percent of African-American high-school graduates nationally. (About 70 percent of SEED graduates are currently in or graduated from college, although the program is new enough that the sample size is small.) Though SEED also outpaces D.C. public schools in reading and math, reading is still a weakness for many SEED students and, not coincidentally, the school’s SAT scores have been unimpressive. Part of the blame, according to Charles Barrett Adams, the head of the school, lies with the public elementary schools: students arrive at SEED typically two to three grade levels behind and spend much of the next years playing catch-up.
不过SEED的数据已经令学校的粉丝们印象深刻，当中包括了总统巴拉克·奥巴马，他形容这所学校是“真正的成功故事”：有至少97%的SEED毕业生收到了大学录取通知书，包括普林斯顿(Princeton)、阿拉巴马农工大学(Alabama A&M)和康涅狄格学院(Connecticut College)。SEED的毕业生中，有九成毕业后立刻在高校报到，相比之下，美国黑人高中毕业生的高校报到率只有56%。（目前，毕业于SEED学校的学生中，有七成目前正在大学念书，或已经毕业，不过这个项目还太新，因此样本比例偏小。）尽管SEED学校的阅读和数学成绩超出了华盛顿特区的公立学校，但阅读仍然是很多SEED学生的短板，而该校学生SAT分数并不出众也就不足为奇了。据学校校长查尔斯·巴勒特·亚当斯(Charles Barrett Adams)说，部分原因得归咎于公立小学：学生们在来到SEED时，通常实际水平要落后两三个年级，在接下来的几年时间里需要迎头赶上。
It wasn’t so different across the campus in the boys’ dorm. During his first months, Triston Elliott, now a senior, wondered who would take care of him if he got hurt; he also longed to get bags of chips from his mother’s kitchen. The boys’ dorm was unadorned and felt forlorn, like an airport terminal: “It’s like you’re supposed to sit and wait for something to happen,” he said. His brother Parry, older by 16 months and handsome, with angular features and an intense approach to everything from his basketball game to his A.P. classes, struggled to find his place at SEED, too. Older kids bullied him, and Parry pushed back. Both boys phoned their mother regularly those first months, often asking to come home.
学校的男生宿舍跟女生的没有多少不同。特里斯顿·艾略特(Triston Elliott)在刚到学校的头几个月里一直在担心，如果自己被人打伤了，谁会来照顾他；他也在想念妈妈厨房里成袋的薯片，而如今，艾略特已经是毕业班的学生了。男生宿舍十分朴素而冷清，感觉跟跟机场航站楼一样：“你觉得自己应当坐下来，等着什么事情发生，”他说。他的哥哥帕里(Parry)比他大16个月，外表英俊，棱角分明，做任何事情都极其认真，不管是对待一场篮球比赛还是大学预科课程，而当时他进SEED时，也是着实花费了一番功夫才找到在这里的位置。大孩子们欺负他，帕里硬是顶了回去。在刚进校的几个月里，两个男孩都时常给妈妈打电话，而且常常要求回家。
“So you’re giving up?” their mother asked them. Tolya Elliott-Chandler was in the minority of SEED parents who had graduated from college, and she pushed her sons academically, but she was not convinced that she could outweigh the forces at a traditional public high school and the neighborhood. She knew there were worse fates for her sons than feeling homesick.
“那么说，你们是想要放弃啰？”妈妈问他们。在SEED学生的家长里，他们的妈妈托尔娅·艾略特-钱德勒(Tolya Elliott-Chandler)是少有的大学毕业生，她一直敦促儿子们好好学习，但她知道，自己的力量还不足以和传统的公立高中与所在的社区相抗衡。她知道，对儿子们来说，相比想家，还有更严峻的命运在等待着他们。
Some kids don’t last beyond the first year or two at SEED. Until recently, the school lost about 20 percent of the student body each year — mostly in middle school and mostly boys. The incoming class of 70 students slowly dissipated each year so that by senior year, the remaining students barely filled a gym bleacher. The high attrition made the school’s much-lauded college acceptance rate less impressive: If a class of 70 seventh graders fell to 20 students by the time of graduation, those remaining 20 students were arguably among the best — at least in terms of self-discipline and a willingness to stick it out — of the original class. Adams, who became the head of SEED two years ago, has been improving the attrition rate by reducing the number of staff members with authority to dismiss students and taking a more nuanced view of dismissal-worthy offenses. During this past school year, the attrition rate dropped by more than 50 percent.
一些孩子进校一两年后就会离开。一直到最近，这所学校每年的学生流失率达到20%左右——大部分学生是在初中，而且以男生为主。刚进校的70个学生，每年都会走几个人，到了高中毕业班时，剩下的学生都坐不满体育馆的一个小看台。高流失率令学校备受赞许的大学入学率显得不那么耀眼了：如果一个7年级班有70个学生，到了毕业时只剩下20个，那留下的这20个学生很可能本身就是原班级最出色的学生，至少在自律和争取出类拔萃的心态上如此。两年前亚当斯成为校长，其后一直致力于降低学生流失率，他减少了有权开除学生的老师人数，并且在开除学生的校纪方面采取了更加细致的态度。在过去这个学年里，流失率减少了超过50%。
Though SEED students get in trouble for the usual teenage reasons, in some cases breaking rules reflects their ambivalence about prep-school culture. Black inner-city boys particularly have to wrestle with the question of whether it is O.K. to be smart. And if it is, then they have to figure out how to wear that — or not wear it — when they return to their neighborhoods each weekend.
尽管SEED的学生也会因为少男少女的常见问题而惹出麻烦，不过有时他们触犯校规，反映出了他们对预科学校文化的矛盾态度。特别是市中心平民区的黑人男孩，他们总是挣扎着，不知道自己是否能表现得机智聪明。如果真的可以，他们还得判断，待到每个周末回到所在的社区时，是否依然能摆出一脸聪明相。
To survive that back and forth, many SEED students learn to code switch. A SEED student knows he can’t swagger through the hallways in baggy jeans, the rapper Ludacris blaring out of his iPod, while he avoids eye contact and a handshake with Mr. Adams. But if he takes too much of SEED back to the neighborhood basketball court — the big words and pressed shirts — he could have troubles of a different sort. Rather than try to erase students’ street culture, Adams, who is 39 and biracial and was raised by a single African-American mother, talks to students about the particular value of it. “Someone who can navigate a dangerous neighborhood has a skill set that others lack,” he told me. “Why would I want to rid him of that?”
为了在这样的循环往复中生存下来，很多SEED的学生学会了适时转换。一个SEED的学生会知道，他不能穿着肥大的牛仔裤、iPod耳机里传出说唱歌手卢达克里斯(Ludacris)的音乐，大摇大摆走在学校走廊里，看到亚当斯校长时，也千万不能目光闪烁，避而不见校长伸出来的手。但如果把太多SEED的习惯带到街头篮球场上——人人都说着脏话，穿着汗湿了贴在身上的球衣——他恐怕会惹上别的麻烦。亚当斯无意于彻底抹去学生的街头风格，这位现年39岁的校长是黑白混血，由单身的黑人妈妈抚养长大，他跟学生们谈到过这种习惯的特殊价值。“那些能在危险的社区自由穿梭的人，他们有的是别人缺少的技能，”他告诉我。“为什么我要抹杀这种技能呢？”
Some parents argued that students’ lives would be easier if they were at SEED seven days a week. The five-day plan was primarily a financial decision — it was too expensive to staff the program on weekends. But Elliott-Chandler was one mother who chose SEED, in part, because she could still see her boys regularly. As it is, weekends fly by with family visits, errands, church and pilgrimages to Sam’s Club, where Triston and Parry stock up for the school week — bags of chips, SunnyD drinks, packs of Winterfresh gum and Gatorade.
一些家长认为，如果孩子一周七天全都在学校里，日子也许会好过点。SEED学校之所以让学生五天住校，基本是出于资金考量——周末安排教职工上班的花费太高昂了。但艾略特-钱德勒之所以选择SEED，部分原因就在于她还能常常见到儿子们，还有些妈妈的想法也跟她一样。周末的时间一晃就过，特里斯顿和帕里要走亲戚、替妈妈跑腿，上教堂，还要去山姆会员店进行朝圣之旅——购买成袋的薯片、SunnyD饮料、大包冬清(Winterfresh)口香糖和加得乐(Gatorade)，为返校做好准备。
And on Sunday, when other families have the entire evening in front of them, Parry and Triston are finishing laundry at home and packing their uniforms. Around 8 p.m., they and their mother pile in her car and soon they are driving through the SEED gates for another school week.
到了星期天，其他家庭还有一整个晚上可以一起度过，而帕里和特里斯顿已经在家里洗好了衣物，并将校服叠好。晚上8点左右，他们和妈妈挤进车里，车子将驶过SEED学校的大门，又是一个星期在等待着他们。
Brown suggested that Reneka slow things down. Then, she brought her Howard House girls together to talk about relationships and sex. Later, she created a panel of men, including a student-life coordinator, Matthew Carothers, who lives in the boys’ dorm, as well as a senior male student, and asked them to answer questions the girls submitted in advance: “What’s on the mind of the 16- to 18-year-old boy?” “Why is it hard for boys to be faithful?” It was a key part of SEED’s after-school curriculum called Halls, Habits for Achieving Life Long Success, with more than 200 lesson plans run by life-skills counselors, including “What Do Those Food Labels Mean?”; “Hip Hop: Is It Bad?”; “Dining Etiquette”; and “Mean Girls.”
布朗建议瑞妮卡把步调放慢点。接下来，她把霍华德小屋的所有女生们都召集起来，讨论情感和性的话题。后来，她也为男生们组织了一场讨论会，除了高中毕业班的男生，还包括了住在男生宿舍的生活主管马修·卡罗瑟斯(Matthew Carothers)，让他们解答女生准备好的问题：“16-18岁的男生心里究竟在想些什么？”“为什么想要男生忠诚是那么难的事情？”这是SEED课外项目中的一个重要组织部分，称为“Halls”，全名叫“实现人生长远成功的习惯”，生活技能辅导员们在项目中组织了200多堂课程，包括“如何读懂食品标签？”；“嘻哈文化：它好不好？”；“用餐礼仪”；以及“刻薄的女生”。
In the boys’ dorm, the teenagers were just as much in need of life skills and relationship advice. A few years ago, Triston liked a girl but wasn’t sure how to get her attention. He wasn’t going to ask his friends, and he doesn’t know his father. So he talked to his life-skills counselor, Nathaniel Goodwin, who had worked with Parry and Triston since they started at SEED five years ago. Triston told Goodwin that many of his ideas about romantic relationships came from the 1997 film “Def Jam’s How to Be a Player,” about a playboy. “Mr. Goodwin was like: ‘No, no, no. That’s not it,’ ” Triston told me, as we sat on a bench outside the girls’ dorm one afternoon. Goodwin told Triston to be himself. “And he told me,” Triston said with a small smile, “to shower more than twice a week.”
在男生寝室那边，这群少年同样需要生活技能和情感方面的建议。几年前，特里斯顿喜欢上了一个女孩，但他不知道该怎样引起她的注意。他不想问朋友，而且他也没有父亲可以去求助。于是他找到了他的生活技能辅导员纳撒尼尔·古德温(Nathaniel Goodwin)，自从五年前帕里和特里斯顿兄弟俩来到SEED学校后，他就一直在帮助他俩。特里斯顿告诉古德温，他关于爱情的很多看法都来自于一部1997年的电影《玩家守则》(Def Jam’s How to Be a Player)，电影讲的是一个花花公子的故事。“古德温先生顿时说，‘不，不，不，这怎么能行，’”一天下午，我和特里斯顿坐在女生宿舍外面的长椅上，他这样告诉我。古德温建议特里斯顿做他自己。“他还对我说，”特里斯顿微笑着说，“你一星期不能只洗两次澡。”
Like the Halls lessons, other efforts at SEED are intended not only to broaden students’ experiences but also to ease the transition to colleges, where there would be plenty of middle-class and upper-middle-class students who had summered in Paris and interned at law firms. To that end, SEED, with the aid of scholarships, sends students off in the summer to study creative writing at the Putney School in Vermont, to wilderness trips in Wyoming and to other programs in places like Zambia, Guatemala and Scotland. For Parry, the school’s annual two-week trip to Greece for a select group of upper-schoolers was a turning point. Imagining a broader world outside Washington was one thing. Being abroad, with food, music, history and a language far different from his own, made him hungry to see and to learn more.
和“Halls”课程一样，SEED学校做出的其他努力意图也不仅仅是拓宽学生的体验，同时还需要令他们迈入高校的过渡更为顺畅，到了大学里会有许多中产阶级或中上层阶级的学生，他们在暑假可以去巴黎度假或去法律事务所实习。为了实现这个目的，SEED学校借助各类奖学金的帮助，在暑假送学生们去佛蒙特州的帕特尼学校(Putney School)学习创意写作，去怀俄明州进行野外探险，去像赞比亚、危地马拉和苏格兰这类国家参加其他各种项目。对于帕里来说，学校为少数优等生安排的每年一次的两周希腊旅行是一个转折点。想象在华盛顿之外还有一个更广阔的世界是一回事。真正走出国门，身处一个饮食、音乐、历史和语言都远远不同于自己国家的地方，这令他感到如饥似渴，希望看到更多、学到更多。
Those neighborhood streets may become more alienating when Parry and Triston leave for college next year. Parry hopes to go to Morehouse for business law. Triston wants to study film at Oberlin. In both cases, they will be hundreds of miles from home. But among the lessons SEED instilled in Triston and Parry was that to move ahead, they had to keep moving beyond home.
明年，帕里和特里斯顿就要读大学了，他们曾走过的社区的街道，在他们眼中或许将会变得更加陌生。帕里希望去莫尔豪斯学院(Morehouse)学商业法。特里斯顿想去欧伯林学院(Oberlin)学电影。这样一来，他们离家都会有数百英里之遥。但是，SEED学校为兄弟俩传授了很多道理，其中一条就是：想要一路往前走，你必须先远离家门。