Detroit is a symbol of the old economy’s decline. It’s not just the derelict center; the metropolitan area as a whole lost population between 2000 and 2010, the worst performance among major cities. Atlanta, by contrast, epitomizes the rise of the Sun Belt; it gained more than a million people over the same period, roughly matching the performance of Dallas and Houston without the extra boost from oil.
底特律是旧经济衰落的一个象征。不只是市中心破败；在2000年到2010年间，底特律大都市圈作为一个整体出现人口流失，情况是美国各大城市中最糟糕的。与此形成对比的是，亚特兰大成为“阳光地带”崛起的一个缩影，同期它的人口增长超过100万，跟达拉斯和休斯顿的表现差不多，而且亚特兰大是在没有石油推动的情况下吸引到新市民的。
Yet in one important respect booming Atlanta looks just like Detroit gone bust: both are places where the American dream seems to be dying, where the children of the poor have great difficulty climbing the economic ladder. In fact, upward social mobility — the extent to which children manage to achieve a higher socioeconomic status than their parents — is even lower in Atlanta than it is in Detroit. And it’s far lower in both cities than it is in, say, Boston or San Francisco, even though these cities have much slower growth than Atlanta.
然而，在一个很重要的方面，繁荣的亚特兰大看上去跟申请破产的底特律很相似：它们似乎都是“美国梦”破灭的地方，在这两个城市，穷人家的孩子攀爬经济阶梯的难度很大。实际上，亚特兰大的“向上社会流动性”（upward social mobility，即在何种程​​度上，孩子获得比父母更高的社会经济地位）甚至比底特律更低。这两个城市的向上社会流动性都远远低于波士顿、旧金山等城市，尽管这些城市的增长速度比亚特兰大低得多。
So what’s the matter with Atlanta? A new study suggests that the city may just be too spread out, so that job opportunities are literally out of reach for people stranded in the wrong neighborhoods. Sprawl may be killing Horatio Alger.
那么，亚特兰大到底有什么问题呢？一项新的研究似乎表明，该市可能就是布局太过分散，导致住得较远的市民“够不着”就业岗位。换句话说，也许是城市蔓延在扼杀美国梦。
The new study comes from the Equality of Opportunity Project, which is led by economists at Harvard and Berkeley. There have been many comparisons of social mobility across countries; all such studies find that these days America, which still thinks of itself as the land of opportunity, actually has more of an inherited class system than other advanced nations. The new project asks how social mobility varies across U.S. cities, and finds that it varies a lot. In San Francisco a child born into the bottom fifth of the income distribution has an 11 percent chance of making it into the top fifth, but in Atlanta the corresponding number is only 4 percent.
这项新研究来自哈佛和加州大学伯克利分校的经济学家们领导的“均等机会项目”(Equality of Opportunity Project)。对于各国的社会流动性，此前已经进行过多种比较；所有这些研究都发现，仍自视机遇遍布的美国，实际上与其它一些发达国家相比，在更大程度上存在一种代代相传的阶层体系。这个新研究项目的命题是：美国不同城市之间的社会流动性有何差异？结果发现，差异非常大。在旧金山，收入最低的五分之一阶层出生的孩子，有11%的机会进入收入最高的五分之一阶层；但在亚特兰大，这个数字只有4%。
When the researchers looked for factors that correlate with low or high social mobility, they found, perhaps surprisingly, little direct role for race, one obvious candidate. They did find a significant correlation with the existing level of inequality: “areas with a smaller middle class had lower rates of upward mobility.” This matches what we find in international comparisons, where relatively equal societies like Sweden have much higher mobility than highly unequal America. But they also found a significant negative correlation between residential segregation — different social classes living far apart — and the ability of the poor to rise.
在调查跟社会流动性高低相关的因素时，研究人员发现了一个也许有些让人意外的现象：虽然种族是一个明显可能相关的因素，但它对社会流动性几乎没有直接作用。研究人员发现，社会流动性跟现有的不平等程度显著相关：“一个地区的中产阶级越少，它的上向流动率就越低。”这跟我们在国际比较研究中的发现相吻合：跟高度不平等的美国相比，在瑞典这样相对平等的社会中，社会流动性高得多。但是研究人员也发现，住宅区隔离程度（不同社会阶层住得很远）和穷人向上爬的能力之间，存在显著的负相关。
And in Atlanta poor and rich neighborhoods are far apart because, basically, everything is far apart; Atlanta is the Sultan of Sprawl, even more spread out than other major Sun Belt cities. This would make an effective public transportation system nearly impossible to operate even if politicians were willing to pay for it, which they aren’t. As a result, disadvantaged workers often find themselves stranded; there may be jobs available somewhere, but they literally can’t get there.
在亚特兰大，穷人区和富人区相距甚远，因为基本上什么都相距甚远；亚特兰大堪称“蔓延之王”，比“阳光地带”的其他主要城市铺得更开。因此它近乎不可能运行有效的公共交通系统，即使政客们愿意为此拨款也办不到，何况他们还不愿意。其结果是，弱势的劳动者们往往发现自己被困在一个地方，也许亚特兰大某个地方有就业机会，但他们没有办法到那里去上班。
The apparent inverse relationship between sprawl and social mobility obviously reinforces the case for “smart growth” urban strategies, which try to promote compact centers with access to public transit. But it also bears on a larger debate about what is happening to American society. I know I’m not the only person who read the Times article on the new study and immediately thought, “William Julius Wilson.”
城市蔓延和社会流动性之间明显的逆向关系，显然支持“明智增长”城市战略；此类战略倡导若干紧凑的城市副中心，并将其纳入公共交通的服务范围。但是它也关系到一场更大的辩论，其主题是：美国社会正在发生什么？我相信，在《纽约时报》上读到有关这项新研究的报道时，不只是我立马想到威廉·朱利叶斯·威尔逊(William Julius Wilson)。
A quarter-century ago Mr. Wilson, a distinguished sociologist, famously argued that the postwar movement of employment out of city centers to the suburbs dealt African-American families, concentrated in those city centers, a heavy blow, removing economic opportunity just as the civil rights movement was finally ending explicit discrimination. And he further argued that social phenomena such as the prevalence of single mothers, often cited as causes of lagging black performance, were actually effects — that is, the family was being undermined by the absence of good jobs.
四分之一个世纪前，杰出的社会学家威尔逊提出了一个著名的观点：二战后，就业岗位从城市中心向郊区转移，给聚居在市中心的非洲裔美国人家庭带来沉重打击，就在民权运动终于结束显性歧视的时候，剥夺了他们在经济方面的机会。他还进一步指出，一些社会现象，比如单亲母亲大量出现，这经常被视为黑人表现滞后的原因，但其实这是结果——也就是说，缺乏好工作导致家庭受损。
These days, you hear less than you used to about alleged African-American social dysfunction, because traditional families have become much weaker among working-class whites, too. Why? Well, rising inequality and the general hollowing out of the job market are probably the main culprits. But the new research on social mobility suggests that sprawl — not just the movement of jobs out of the city, but their movement out of reach of many less-affluent residents of the suburbs, too — is also playing a role.
如今，你不再经常听到人们提起所谓的非裔美国人社会功能障碍，因为在白人的工人阶级中，传统家庭也大大弱化了。为什么呢？嗯，日益严重的不平等，以及就业市场总体上的“空心化”，很可能是元凶。但是，这项有关社会流动性的新研究似乎表明，城市蔓延——不只是工作岗位迁出城外，而且它们还位于许多不那么富裕的郊区居民难以前往的地方——也在扮演一个角色。
As I said, this observation clearly reinforces the case for policies that help families function without multiple cars. But you should also see it in the larger context of a nation that has lost its way, that preaches equality of opportunity while offering less and less opportunity to those who need it most.
正如我在上文所说，这个见解明确支持这样的政策：帮助家家户户在不需要多辆汽车的情况下开展正常生活。但你也应该在一个更大的背景下来看待它：美国已经迷失了方向，这个国家在宣扬机会均等的同时，为那些最需要机会的人群提供的机会越来越少。