Two major studies by leading research groups published on Wednesday independently identified mutations in a single gene that protect against heart attacks by keeping levels of triglycerides — a kind of fat in the blood — very low for a lifetime.
几家著名研究机构周三发表了两项重大研究成果，称它们分别识别出了几种单一基因突变。这些基因突变可以使人体的三酸甘油酯（一种血脂）终生保持在较低水平，从而防止心肌梗死的发生。
The findings are expected to lead to a push to develop drugs that mimic the effect of the mutations, potentially offering the first new class of drugs to combat heart disease in decades, experts say. Statins, which reduce LDL cholesterol, another cause of heart disease, became blockbusters in the late 1980s. Since then, there have been no major new drugs approved for lowering heart disease risk. But experts caution that drug development takes years and that there are no guarantees that new treatments will work as hoped.
专家说，这些发现预计将促使人们加紧研发可以模仿这种突变效果的药物，并有可能催生几十年来第一个全新的心脏病药物类别。上世纪80年代，他汀类药物成为一项重大发明，它可以降低低密度胆固醇(LDL)的水平，LDL则是心脏病的另一诱因。此后，再没有出现能够降低心脏病风险的新的重要药物种类。但专家提醒，药品的研发过程长达数年，且不能保证新的治疗方法一定达到人们所希望的效果。
Heart attacks are the leading killer in the United States, and about 720,000 Americans a year have them. Although statins are effective in reducing heart attack risk, many users still have high levels of triglycerides and go on to have heart attacks. So the results of the new studies are good news, said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, the director of the Preventive Cardiovascular Medicine and Lipid Clinic at the University of Pennsylvania, who was not involved in the research.
心肌梗死是美国人的头号杀手，每年有72万美国人发病。尽管他汀类药物能够有效降低心肌梗死风险，许多服用此药物的患者体内三酸甘油酯水平仍然很高，且仍会发生心肌梗死。宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)心血管疾病预防药物和脂质诊所(Preventive Cardiovascular Medicine and Lipid Clinic)主任丹尼尔·J·雷德(Daniel J. Rader)博士因此说，这些研究成果是好消息。雷德没有参与这项研究。
“We’ve been looking for something beyond statins,” Dr. Rader said. “After we have put people on high-dose statins, what else can we do? Essentially nothing.”
“我们一直在寻找他汀类药物以外的某种东西，”雷德说，“在给患者服用了高剂量的他汀类药物之后，我们还能做什么？基本上束手无策。”
Experts differ in their estimates of how many Americans might be candidates for a triglyceride-lowering drug. If the eligible group included all adults with triglyceride levels of 200 or more — the normal level is 150 or less — that would mean about 20 percent of adult Americans. If it were just those with the highest levels, above 500, then 2 percent to 3 percent of adults would qualify.
对于有多少美国人适合服用降低三酸甘油酯的药物，专家们给出了不同的估计。如果包括所有三酸甘油酯水平在200及以上的成年人——正常水平是150及以下——那就相当于20%的美国成年人。如果只是水平最高——即500以上——的那群人，那么符合标准的人将占到2%到3%。
The discovery announced on Wednesday was hinted at in 2008 in a much smaller study of the Amish conducted by researchers from the University of Maryland’s medical school. One in 20 Amish people has a mutation that destroys a gene, involved in triglyceride metabolism, compared with one in 150 Americans generally. The scientists were intrigued but did not have enough data to nail down the gene’s role in heart attacks.
周三公布的这个研究发现，在马里兰大学(University of Maryland)医学院研究人员2008年对阿米什人进行的一项规模小得多的研究中有所提示。当时发现，每20个阿米什人中就有一人有一种突变，它能破坏一个与三酸甘油酯代谢有关的基因，相比之下，美国人的这个概率是1/150。科学家们对此产生了很大兴趣，但是没有足够的数据来确定该基因在促成心肌梗塞中的作用。
Sam, a 55-year-old Amish farmer who declined to have his last name published, saying he was uncomfortable about being conspicuous, has such a beneficial mutation. He recalls little heart disease in his family. On a cold day last fall, as an icy rain fell outside, he sat at a small wooden table in his daughter’s house and laid out a sheet of paper that showed he had a triglyceride level of 45. The average in the United States is 147.
现年55岁的萨姆(Sam)是一名阿米什农民，他说过多关注会让自己不自在，因此拒绝公开姓氏。萨姆的基因中就存在这种有益的突变。他回忆说，他的家族中没人得过心脏病。去年，在一个下着雨的阴冷秋日，他坐在女儿的家中的一个小木桌旁，摊开了一张纸，上面显示，他的三酸甘油酯水平为45。而美国人平均水平为147。
“It’s nice that something came out that is positive,” he said.
“现在知道这东西是正面的，挺好，”他说。
Triglycerides have long puzzled researchers, although they are routinely measured along with cholesterol in blood tests and are often high in people with heart disease. Many experts were unconvinced they caused heart attacks. Clinical trials of drugs that lowered triglycerides by a small amount added to doubts about their role: The drugs had no effect on heart attack rates.
长期以来，甘油酸三酯一直让研究人员困惑，尽管在验血时会像测量胆固醇浓度一样对甘油酸三酯的含量进行检测，而且心脏病患者的这个指标都很高。许多专家并不相信是它引发了心肌梗死。降低甘油酸三酯的临床药物实验加剧了相关怀疑：这些药物对心肌梗死的发病率没有影响。
As for triglycerides themselves, “do they just keep bad company or are they independently doing something to risk?” asked Dr. Robert Hegele, a heart disease expert at Western University in London, Ontario, who was not involved in the new studies.
至于三酸甘油酯本身，“它们只是交了坏朋友，还是它们本身就在做坏事？”西安大略大学(Western University in London, Ontario)的心脏病专家罗伯特·黑格勒(Robert Hegele)博士问。黑格勒没有参与这项研究。
Those studies, published in The New England Journal of Medicine and funded by the National Institutes of Health and the European Union, provide “a very, very strong type of evidence,” Dr. Hegele said, that triglycerides are in fact a cause of heart attacks.
这些研究由美国国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)和欧盟资助，研究成果被发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上。黑格勒说，它们提供了“非常、非常强大的证据”，证明了三酸甘油酯事实上是心肌梗死的一个诱因。
The work began several years ago when researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and M.I.T. started searching through an enormous data set — drawn from 70 studies involving 200,000 people — to see if there were tiny genetic changes near or in genes that seemed to lead to very high or very low amounts of triglycerides in the blood. They also asked whether people who happened to have a higher or lower triglyceride level also had a higher or lower incidence of heart attacks.
研究工作开始于几年前，当时，哈佛-麻省理工博德研究所(Broad Institute of Harvard and M.I.T.)研究人员开始在一个庞大的数据库进行搜索。该数据库来自70项研究，涉及20万人。研究人员想要知道，在导致血液中三酸甘油酯的含量非常高或非常低的基因中，是否存在微小的突变。他们还想知道，三酸甘油酯水平较高或较低的人发生心肌梗死的几率是否相应地升高或降低。
The researchers discovered that people with a genetic predisposition to higher triglyceride levels had more heart attacks and those with genetically lower triglyceride levels had fewer.
这些研究人员发现，有更高三酸甘油酯遗传易感性的人，心肌梗死发病率更高，而三酸甘油酯遗传易感性较低的人，心肌梗死的发病率较低。
Their study, published last year in Nature Genetics, did not isolate individual genes, though. It just pointed to signposts on the long stretch of 30 million DNA letters that were near the genes. So the investigators began a hunt for the genes themselves.
然而，他们去年发表在《自然-遗传学》(Nature Genetics)上的研究并未隔离个别基因，只是指出了相关基因附近一个3000万DNA字符长的区域上的标识。因此，研究人员开始搜寻那些基因本身。
To that end, they mapped the genes of 3,734 Americans, about 2,500 of whom were white and the balance African-American. The researchers reported the results of that effort on Wednesday.
为了达到这一目标，他们绘制了3734名美国人的基因图谱，其中白人约为2500名，剩下的都是非裔美国人。研究人员周三通报了那项研究的结果。
One gene, APOC3, stood out. The scientists found four mutations that destroyed the function of this gene. The Amish study had discovered that people with such a mutation could drink a big, rich milkshake, loaded with fat, and their triglyceride levels did not budge. For everyone else, they spiked. The new studies show what that means for people’s health.
一个名为APOC3的基因脱颖而出。科学家发现有四种突变能摧毁该基因的功能。对阿米什人进行的那项研究发现，携带这种突变的人即便喝一大杯富含脂肪的浓奶昔，三酸甘油酯水平也不会发生变化。而在所有其他人身上，三酸甘油酯水平大幅升高。最新研究表明了这一点对健康的意义。
“Those who carry the gene mutations have a 40 percent reduction in triglyceride levels and a 40 percent lower risk of heart disease,” said Dr. Sekar Kathiresan of Massachusetts General Hospital and the Broad Institute. He is the lead researcher on the gene project.
“携带这种基因突变的人的三酸甘油酯水平，以及患心脏病的风险均低40%，”供职于马萨诸塞州总医院(Massachusetts General Hospital)和博德研究所的谢卡尔· 卡斯瑞斯安(Sekar Kathiresan)博士说。他是该基因项目的首席研究员。
Now, he added, “there is a route to heart attacks that is independent of LDL,” the form of cholesterol associated with heart disease.
他接着说，现在“心肌梗死的形成有一个和低密度脂蛋白(LDL)无关的途径。”LDL是一种和心脏病有关联的胆固醇形式。
The other study, led by Dr. Anne Tybjaerg-Hansen of Copenhagen University Hospital, used data from 75,725 subjects to learn whether low triglyceride levels were linked to a reduced heart attack risk. They were. The researchers also asked whether people who had mutations destroying the APOC3 gene had fewer heart attacks. They did. Those with such mutations had a 44 percent reduction in triglycerides and a 36 percent lower heart attack risk.
哥本哈根大学医院(Copenhagen University Hospital)安妮·泰伯贾基-汉森(Anne Tybjaerg-Hansen)博士领导的另一项研究，通过75725个人的数据了解三酸甘油酯水平低是否与心肌梗死风险小有关。的确有关。研究人员还提出能摧毁基因APOC3的突变的携带者发生心肌梗死的发病次数是不是更少。的确如此。这种突变的携带者的三酸甘油酯水平低44%，心肌梗死风险低36%。
The Danish data, Dr. Kathiresan said, “are eerily consistent with our data.”
卡斯瑞斯安表示，丹麦的数据“与我们的数据可怕的一致”。
A small California company, Isis, also hit upon the gene when it was looking for ways to make triglyceride levels plunge in the small group of people with disorders leading to triglyceride levels so high they can be fatal. They made a drug that counteracts the gene and began testing it. It slashed triglyceride levels by 71 percent.
加利福尼亚州的小公司Isis在想办法降低一小群人的三酸甘油酯水平时，也偶然发现了这个基因。这些人的身体失调导致他们的三酸甘油酯水平高到有致命的危险。该公司生产了一种能抵抗这种基因的药物，并开始对其进行检测。这种药能将三酸甘油酯的水平降低71%。
“It is the most important drug in our pipeline,” said Dr. Stanley Crooke, the chief executive of Isis. “Trust me, these data are really exciting.”
“这是我们计划中最重要的药，”Isis首席执行官斯坦利·克鲁克(Stanley Crooke)博士说。“相信我，这些数据真的振奋人心。”
The company has no plans to test whether its drug prevents heart attacks in the general population. That sort of huge study, lasting years, would require the resources of a much larger company.
该公司不打算在普通人中测试自己的药能不能预防心肌梗死。那种持续多年的大型研究，以这种小公司的资源是无法承受的。
But heart researchers see the Isis drug as, at least, proof that it is possible to come up with drugs in what could be a new class of pharmaceuticals to protect against heart disease.
但心脏研究人员认为，Isis的药至少证明，一个全新的心脏病预防药物类别有可能应运而生。