Keanu Reeves shuffled onto the terrace of a high-rise in the financial district of Manhattan, tossed a rumpled pack of American Spirit cigarettes and a half-eaten Clif Bar on the coffee table, and gingerly lowered himself onto the couch. Tall, with scruffy beard and mustache, he’d returned to this temporary home fresh from intense fight training for his next project, a thriller called “John Wick.” With wisps of gray visible in the long, dark brown hair, the 49-year-old Mr. Reeves called himself, multiple times, “a salty dog” of the film business, and if he’s embracing the real-life role of grizzled lifer, he’s also relishing the confidence that comes with experience.
基努·里维斯(Keanu Reeves)拖着脚走到曼哈顿金融区的一座摩天大楼的阳台上，把一包皱巴巴的“美国精神”牌香烟和一条吃了一半的克利夫巧克力棒扔在咖啡桌上，轻手轻脚地坐到沙发上。他个头高大，留着凌乱的胡子和唇须。在为下一部惊险电影《约翰·维克》(John Wick)进行高强度打斗训练之后，他回到这个临时的家中。里维斯今年49岁，深棕色的长发中夹杂着几缕灰发，他多次称自己是电影界的“老水手”。他坦然接受自己在现实生活中的角色：头发灰白的终身从业者；同时也很享受经历带来的自信。
The laid-back star was describing a moment when he went off-script in his latest film, the steely martial arts action picture “Man of Tai Chi.” As a master watching his protégé lose his innocence, “I wanted to take a risk and show something elemental,” he said. “So I improvised and let out a demon scream. It was freeing. Some people on set were like, ‘Really?’ ” Mr. Reeves gave a boyish grin. “But the director liked it.”
这位放松的明星谈起了自己在拍摄上一部武打动作电影《太极侠》(Man of Tai Chi)时脱离剧本表演的情形。他说，当时在拍摄一位大师看着自己的门徒不再天真，“我想冒冒险，展现一些质朴的东西，所以即兴发挥，发出了怪兽般的吼叫。那很能释放情绪。片场有些人的反应是，‘不会吧？’”里维斯露出了孩子式的露齿笑容，“但是导演喜欢。”
In this instance actor and director were one and the same. “Man of Tai Chi,” opening on Nov. 1, represents a key point in Mr. Reeves’s transition from leading man to behind-the-scenes player. The film, his directorial debut, stars Mr. Reeves’s friend and the former “Matrix” trilogy stuntman Tiger Hu Chen as a Chinese deliveryman and student of traditional combat styles seduced into entering the high-tech world of illegal prizefighting by the darkly mysterious master Donaka Mark.
在这里，演员和导演是同一个人。11月1日上映的《太极侠》，象征着里维斯的身份开始从幕前的主演转变为幕后的导演。这部导演处女作由他的朋友、《黑客帝国》(Matrix)三部曲中的替身演员陈虎主演。陈虎在片中扮演一名学过武术的快递员。他受黑暗、神秘的大佬唐那卡·马克(Donaka Mark)引诱，走进了高科技黑拳比赛的世界。
Shot in Hong Kong and Beijing, with dialogue in English, Mandarin and Cantonese, the film represented a rare opportunity for Mr. Reeves, who has been more hands-on with his projects of late, co-producing and co-starring in a small romantic comedy, “Henry’s Crime” (2011), and co-producing and conducting on-camera interviews for “Side by Side” (2012), a brainy documentary about the movie industry’s shift from film to digital. (An unabashed movie-tech geek, Mr. Reeves giddily rubbed his hands together when discussing different shutter angles and frame rates in “Man of Tai Chi.”)
该片在香港和北京两地拍摄，对白是英语、汉语和粤语，对里维斯来说，这是个难得的机会。在最近的几个项目中，他都身兼多职——2011年他担任小型浪漫喜剧电影《亨利的罪行》(Henry’s Crime)的联合制片人和联合主演；2012年他担任《肩并肩》(Side by Side)的联合制作人并进行镜头采访——这部很有头脑的纪录片讲述的是电影产业从胶片时代到数码时代的转变（里维斯是个毫不掩饰的电影技术迷，当谈起《太极侠》中不同的快门角度和帧速时，他搓着双手，让人眼花缭乱）。
“I was never the kind of actor who was only interested in my own performance and that’s it,” said Mr. Reeves, dressed in an olive-green military-style jacket, black cargo pants and heavy boots. “I’ve always enjoyed being on sets and seeing where the camera was going and looking at the shooting schedule and understanding how the production is put together and how I fit into the story as a whole.”
“我从来都不是只关心自己的表演，”里维斯说。他穿着橄榄绿军装式夹克、黑色工装裤和沉重的靴子，“我总是喜欢待在片场，看摄像机往哪个方向走，看拍摄计划，努力弄清电影的制作方法以及我自己在整个故事中的角色。”
Mr. Reeves spent years “carrying the begging bowl,” as he put it, seeking financing for this “allegory about the pressures and seductions of the modern world,” themes not terribly dissimilar from those of “Side by Side.” When the opportunity to make “Man of Tai Chi” arose — thanks largely to a deal with the state-run China Film Group — he was ready. A lifelong fan of martial arts movies with fond memories of seeing “Five Fingers of Death” and “Enter the Dragon” in Times Square theaters with his stepfather, he explained: “I’ve been doing this for a while. I didn’t feel like I had to make the phone call to anybody asking” — here he feigned panic — “ ‘What do I do?’ I felt like I could see the forest and trees.”
里维斯说，他花了好几年的时间“端着要饭的碗”，为《太极侠》这部“关于现代社会压力和诱惑的寓言故事”寻找资金。它的主题和《肩并肩》的主题没有很大不同。当拍摄的机会到来时——主要得益于和国营的中国电影集团的协议——他已经准备好了。里维斯一直是个武打电影迷，很享受在时报广场剧院和继父一起观看《天下第一拳》(Five Fingers of Death)和《龙争虎斗》(Enter the Dragon)时的快乐时光。他说，“我在这个行业有一段时间了。我现在已经不再是必须给某人打电话问‘我演什么角色？’（他说这话时做出恐慌的表情）；而是自己既能看到全貌，也能看到细节。”
This shift from actor fully capable of throwing a bullet-time punch or two as Neo in the “Matrix” movies to filmmaker made sense to Carl Rinsch, who directed Mr. Reeves in the coming 3-D samurai spectacle “47 Ronin,” due Christmas Day. “When I signed on to work with Keanu it was clear I was getting not an actor but a collaborator,” Mr. Rinsch said. “Keanu was there for script development and preproduction. He’s got this enthusiasm for the entire process that really brings you back to the joy and naïveté all filmmakers had when they were kids making movies in their backyard.”
作为演员，里维斯完全能像《黑客帝国》中的尼欧(Neo)那样快如子弹般地打出一两个猛拳。而今，他从演员到电影制作人的转变对《四十七浪人》(47 Ronin)的导演卡尔·林施(Carl Rinsch)来说是有意义的。《四十七浪人》是里维斯主演的一部3D武士大片，即将于圣诞节上映。“当我和基努签约合作时，我清楚地知道我得到的不只是个演员，而且是个协作者，”林施说，“基努帮我完善剧本，进行试制作。他对整个过程很有热情，让你想起了所有导演小时候在后院拍电影时的那种欢乐和天真。”
For Mr. Chen, who had little acting experience, Mr. Reeves’s passion for that process was pulse quickening: “Keanu wanted me to go over the top with my energy every take. If I went 100 percent, it wasn’t enough. I had to go 120 percent. After scenes I’d feel like I was having a heart attack. ”
对几乎没有表演经验的陈虎来说，里维斯对电影拍摄的热情让人心跳加速：“每个镜头，基努都想让我发挥超出极限的能量。如果我付出了百分百的努力，那还不够。我必须得做到120%。每拍完一场戏，我都感觉像是犯了一回心脏病。”
There are those for whom the concept of acting advice from Keanu Reeves may register as a sort of one-hand-clapping Zen koan. It’s hard to think of another major star for which the question of whether they’re actually any good at their job remains open to debate. Witness the longevity of the popular “Point Break Live!” theater parody, wherein audience members are invited to take on the role of Mr. Reeves’s character, Johnny Utah (cue the clueless California-dude accents). In 2011 the critics A. O. Scott and Manohla Dargis of The New York Times entertained the question, “Is Keanu Reeves a good bad actor or a bad good actor?”
在有些人看来，基努·里维斯关于表演的建议可能就像禅宗公案一样有争议。你很难想到还有哪个大明星的演技像他这样遭到人们质疑。长演不衰的戏剧模仿秀《惊爆点现场版》(Point Break Live)就是证据——剧中观众被邀请扮演里维斯演的角色强尼·尤塔(Johnny Utah)，学着那个加州花花公子的愚蠢口音念台词。2011年，《纽约时报》的影评家A·O·斯科特(A. O. Scott)和曼诺拉·达吉斯(Manohla Dargis)开玩笑式地提出这个问题：“基努·里维斯到底是个优秀的蹩脚演员还是个蹩脚的优秀演员？”
“I get it totally,” Mr. Reeves said. “People say, ‘Another inscrutable deadpan performance.’ I mostly find these things amusing. Something like ‘Point Break Live!’ is a funny idea, I can understand that. Ultimately you hope that people like what you do. It’s a drag when they don’t. The weirdest thing for me is when people assume that I’m the person I’m playing. So then it becomes, ‘You wanted my performance to be different, but you also didn’t think it was a performance?’ That’s puzzling to me.”
“我知道是怎么回事，”里维斯说，“人们总是说，‘又一个故作神秘的、面无表情的表演。’我主要觉得这些看法很搞笑。像《惊爆点现场版》这样的东西是有趣的主意，我能理解这一点。说到底，你希望人们喜欢你做的事情。要是人们不喜欢，那是挺没劲的。我觉得最奇怪的是，人们认定我就是我扮演的那个人。所以，结果就是，‘你们又想让我的表演有所不同，又不认为我是在表演。’这让我很迷惑。” 
Mr. Reeves leaned forward on the couch and let his lank hair cover his face. “Maybe it’s because I did ‘Bill and Ted’ so early in my career and that stuck with people,” he said wryly. “Maybe my performance was too good.”
里维斯在沙发上向前倾斜身体，让细长的头发遮住脸。“也许是因为我在事业早期就演了《比尔和泰特》(Bill and Ted)，人们甩不掉那个印象，”他苦笑着说，“也许是因为我演得太好了。”
The director Alex Winter, who played Bill in the aforementioned 1989 buddy comedy “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” and the 1991 follow-up, “Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey,” said that the popular notion of his longtime friend as some sort of beautiful cipher is misguided. “He’s one of the brightest and most engaged actors I know,” Mr. Winter said. “Just look at the thing he chose to do for the first movie he directed. He didn’t do some small two-hander. He did a logistically complex martial arts film. The idea of him being either Bill or Neo or just a pretty face is wildly inaccurate. Just because he doesn’t talk publicly about his internal life and interests doesn’t mean they don’t exist.”
导演亚历克斯·温特(Alex Winter)在上面提到的1989年的喜剧《比尔和泰德的奇异冒险》(Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure)以及1991年的续集《比尔和泰德畅游鬼门关》(Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey)中扮演比尔。他说，人们是因为误解才普遍认为他的老朋友是个花瓶。“他是我认识的最聪明、最投入的演员之一，”温特说，“你看看他导演的第一部电影你就知道了。他拍的不是那种小型的只有两个角色的电影。他拍的是复杂的武打电影。认为他就是泰德、尼欧或者花瓶的看法大错特错。他不在公开场合谈论自己的内心想法和兴趣，并不意味着那些东西不存在。”
The “Bill & Ted” screenwriters, Chris Matheson and Ed Solomon, have completed a script for a third film about those two big-hearted dim bulbs from San Dimas, Calif., and Mr. Winter said, he, the writers and Mr. Reeves were working to get it financed.
《比尔和泰德》的编剧克里斯·马西森(Chris Matheson)和埃德·所罗门(Ed Solomon)完成了关于这两位来自加州圣迪玛斯的洒脱、迟钝的家伙的第三部电影的剧本。温特说，他和编辑们以及里维斯正在寻求拍摄资金。
“Wouldn’t it be surreal to meet those dudes again?” asked a beaming Mr. Reeves.
“再次与那两个家伙见面，会不会显得超现实？”一脸喜气的里维斯问道。
Before then, the Beirut-born, Toronto-raised Mr. Reeves will be seen in “47 Ronin” as Kai, a half-Japanese, half-English outcast who joins a band of banished warriors on a revenge mission. It’s his first big-budget Hollywood studio film since “The Day the Earth Stood Still” in 2008, a gap he admits was not necessarily his choice. “I wasn’t being asked to do things,” he said with a shrug. “Some things came up, but they weren’t intriguing. I wasn’t going to sit around and wait for an amazing studio project to appear. I’m a creative person, and I want to make stuff. It just so happened that the things I was interested in making and that I had an opportunity to make were lovely films like ‘A Scanner Darkly’ and ‘Thumbsucker.’ ”
在那之前，在贝鲁特出生、多伦多长大的里维斯将出现在《四十七浪人》中，扮演凯(Kai)这个角色。凯是个被流放的日英混血儿，他和一帮被流放的武士参加了一次复仇行动。这是他在2008年的《地球停转之日》(The Day the Earth Stood Still)之后的首部好莱坞大制作电影。他承认这中间的空白不是他主动选择的。“没人找我拍电影，”他耸了耸肩说道，“中间也有一些片约，但都不是很有趣。我不会坐等一部精彩的大制作影片出现。我是个有创造力的人，我想拍一些东西。只是碰巧我感兴趣且有时间拍的都是些可爱的电影，比如《黑暗扫描仪》(A Scanner Darkly)和《吮拇指的人》(Thumbsucker)。”
Mr. Reeves explained that he had hopes, rather than plans, of directing again, and for now is enjoying wearing the actor’s hat. That has recently required some practice. After the interview for this article, Mr. Reeves would be off to a shooting range for some “John Wick” firearms training.
里维斯说他希望能再次当导演，虽然目前还没有具体的计划，还享受着当演员的身份。最近这个身份需要他进行一些练习。在为本文接受采访之后，里维斯将去一个射击场为约翰·维克一角进行枪械练习。
“I’ve crossed seas and oceans,” Mr. Reeves declared in a mock tragic English accent as he rose creakily from the couch. “I’m a hardened vet.”
“我已经穿过了海洋，”里维斯晃晃悠悠地从沙发上站起来，假装用一种哀伤的英语腔调宣布，“我是个坚强的老兵。”
Then he returned to his regular voice. “The truth is I have no cynicism,” he said. “At my core, I’m still in love with acting and the movies.”
然后他恢复到正常的嗓音说，“实际上，我一点儿都不愤世嫉俗。从心底里，我还爱着表演和电影。”