LAST week, scientists sequenced the genome of cells taken without consent from a woman named Henrietta Lacks. She was a black tobacco farmer and mother of five, and though she died in 1951, her cells, code-named HeLa, live on. They were used to help develop our most important vaccines and cancer medications, in vitro fertilization, gene mapping, cloning. Now they may finally help create laws to protect her family’s privacy — and yours.
上周，科学家测序了一些细胞的基因组，这些细胞在未征得同意的情况下，取自亨丽埃塔·拉克斯(Henrietta Lacks)。拉克斯是一位种植烟草的黑人农民，五个孩子的母亲。虽然她早在1951年就去世了，但她的细胞仍然活着。这些代号为HeLa的细胞被用来帮助研发最重要的疫苗，以及抗癌药物、试管受精、基因图谱和克隆研究。现在，这些细胞可能会最终推动立法，保护她的家人和所有人的隐私。
The family has been through a lot with HeLa: they didn’t learn of the cells until 20 years after Lacks’s death, when scientists began using her children in research without their knowledge. Later their medical records were released to the press and published without consent. Because I wrote a book about Henrietta Lacks and her family, my in-box exploded when news of the genome broke. People wanted to know: did scientists get the family’s permission to publish her genetic information? The answer is no.
拉克斯的家庭在HeLa细胞上经历了很多事情：他们直到拉克斯死后20年才知道这些细胞的存在。那时，科学家们开始在研究中利用她的孩子们，但没有让他们知情。后来，他们的医疗记录被透露给了媒体，而且未经他们同意就发表了。由于我曾写过一本有关她和她家庭的书，当她的基因组测序的消息出来后，我的收件箱都要挤爆了。人们想知道：科学家们公布她的基因信息，得到她家人的允许了吗？回答是没有。
Imagine if someone secretly sent samples of your DNA to one of many companies that promise to tell you what your genes say about you. That report would list the good news (you’ll probably live to be 100) and the not-so-good news (you’ll most likely develop Alzheimer’s, bipolar disorder and maybe alcoholism). Now imagine they posted your genetic information online, with your name on it. Some people may not mind. But I assure you, many do: genetic information can be stigmatizing, and while it’s illegal for employers or health insurance providers to discriminate based on that information, this is not true for life insurance, disability coverage or long-term care.
设想一下，如果有人偷偷把你的DNA样本送给某家公司，有许多这样的公司承诺，他们能告诉你，你的基因如何预示你的未来。公司出具的报告会包含好消息（你可能会活到100岁），也包括不那么好的消息（你极有可能得老年痴呆症、双相情感障碍或酗酒）。再想想吧，现在他们把你的基因信息连带姓名一起放到网上。一些人可能不在意。但是，我敢肯定，很多人会在乎。基因信息能给人抹上污点，尽管雇主或者医疗保险提供者利用基因信息进行歧视是非法的，但是在人寿保险、残疾保险及长期医疗护理等行业这样做并不违法。
“That is private family information,” said Jeri Lacks-Whye, Lacks’s granddaughter. “It shouldn’t have been published without our consent.”
拉克斯的外孙女儿洁丽·拉克斯-韦(Jeri Lacks-Whye)说，“这是家庭的隐私信息，没有征得我们的同意，它本不应该被公布。”
Some scientists agree: Jonathan Eisen, a genomics researcher at the University of California, Davis, tweeted, “A bit stunned that the people publishing the HeLa genome appear to not have gotten consent from the family.” Another said this was going to further damage public trust in science. A few argued that the cells had changed so much over time, they couldn’t accurately tell us anything about Lacks (to which a geneticist replied, “Your claim is so wrong that I don’t know where to start”). Several noted that consent wasn’t required to publish the HeLa genome (true). But over all, the scientific community was surprisingly silent on the issue.
有些科学家同意这个说法：加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的基因组研究者乔纳森·艾森(Jonathan Eisen)在Twitter上写道，“公布HeLa基因组的人，似乎没有得到她家庭的同意。这让我有些震惊。”另外有人说，这会进一步损坏公众对科学的信任。但也有人说，这些细胞这么多年来已经发生了很大的变化，它们不可能准确地告诉我们有关拉克斯的任何信息。（对此，一位基因研究者回应道，“你的说法太离谱了，让我无语。”）一些人指出，没有规定要求在公布HeLa基因组前需得到同意（的确如此）。但是总的来说，科学界令人震惊地对这件事保持沉默。
On its own, the HeLa genome doesn’t say anything specific about Lacks: it’s a string of billions of letters that detail the genetic information that makes up a HeLa cell, which is useful for science. A news release from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, where the HeLa genome was sequenced, said, “We cannot infer anything about Henrietta Lacks’s genome, or of her descendants, from the data generated in this study.”
HeLa基因组本身并没有说明任何针对拉克斯的具体信息，它只不过是一串数以十亿计的字母，详细记载了构成HeLa细胞的基因信息，这些字母对科学有用。HeLa基因组的测序是在欧洲分子生物学实验室(European Molecular Biology Laboratory)做的，该实验室的新闻稿称，“我们无法从本次研究产生的数据中，推断亨丽埃塔·拉克斯的基因组或有关她的后人的任何信息。”
But that’s not true. And a few scientists decided to prove it. One uploaded HeLa’s genome to a public Web site called SNPedia, a Wikipedia-like site for translating genetic information. Minutes later, it produced a report full of personal information about Henrietta Lacks, and her family. (The scientist kept that report confidential, sharing it only with me.) Until recently, few people had the ability to process raw genome data like this. Now anyone who can send an e-mail can do it. No one knows what we may someday learn about Lacks’s great-grandchildren from her genome, but we know this: the view we have today of genomes is like a world map, but Google Street View is coming very soon.
但事实并非如此。而且一些科学家已决定给出反证。一位科学家将HeLa基因组上传至公共网站SNPedia，这是一个类似于维基百科的翻译基因信息的网站。几分钟后，该网站给出了一份充满有关亨丽埃塔·拉克斯及其家庭的人个人信息的报告。（这位科学家对该报告保守秘密，只让我一个人看了。）不久以前，几乎没人有这种处理原始基因数据的能力。而如今，只要会发电子邮件的人就有这种能力。虽然没人知道，我们也许有朝一日能从拉克斯的基因组中了解到她的重孙辈的什么信息，但是我们知道这一点：虽然我们现在看到的基因组图谱像是一张世界地图，但是谷歌街景那样的细节离我们已经不远了。
Scientifically speaking, that’s good news. There’s a lot of hope for using technology like this for affordable “personalized medicine.” But legally and ethically speaking, we’re not ready for it.
从科学上来说，这是好消息。这让类似技术更有望用于负担得起的“个体化医疗”。但是从法律和道德上来说，我们还没有做好那种准备。
As Francis S. Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, says: “This latest HeLa situation really shows us that our policy is lagging years and maybe decades behind the science. It’s time to catch up.” The regulations governing this sort of research were written in the 1970s, long before anyone imagined what you could learn from a bit of DNA. They are largely based on the now outdated belief that if samples are “anonymized” (i.e., your name is removed), there’s no need to get consent before using them in research.
正如美国国立卫生研究院（National Institutes of Health，简称NIH）主任弗朗西斯·S·柯林斯(Francis S. Collins)所言，“最近的HeLa情况所真实展现的是，我们的政策与科学进展相比，落后了几年、或许几十年，是赶上来的时候了。”管理这类研究的法规制定于20世纪70年代，远在任何人想象出从一段DNA中能得到什么信息之前。这些法规大部分基于现在看来已过时的观念，即如果样本“被匿名”（也就是说你的名字被删除了），那么在用于研究前，不需要得到同意。
The problem, says Yaniv Erlich, a fellow at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, is that anonymity vanishes when it comes to DNA: “People don’t realize it’s impossible to hide genetic information once it’s out there.” He and his colleagues recently proved that it’s possible to use online public databases to find the identities of people whose anonymous DNA samples had been sequenced and published online. Yet researchers aren’t required to tell you that there is no guarantee that a genome, once sequenced, will stay private or anonymous.
怀特海德生物医学研究所(Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research)的研究员亚尼夫·埃尔里奇(Yaniv Erlich)说，问题在于，涉及到DNA时，匿名性消失了，“人们没有意识到，一旦基因信息出来了，就不可能将其隐藏起来。”最近，他和他的同事们证明，有可能使用网上公共数据库来确定DNA样品主人的身份，他们的匿名DNA样品被测序并被在网上公布出来。然而，研究者们没有被要求告知你，基因组一旦被测序，就不再有保持其私密性或匿名性的保障了。
More than a year and a half ago, the N.I.H. and several government organizations proposed changing current regulations to require consent for tissue research, genome sequencing and sharing private data. The proposal generated public comment but nothing changed, and science continues to move forward with speed, potential and outdated regulation.
早于一年半以前，NIH和几家政府机构曾提出修改现有法规的建议，增加在进行人体组织研究、基因组测序及私人数据分享前征得同意的要求。这一建议引发了公众评论，但是却没有带来任何结果，科学仍在继续迅速进展，产生着各种可能性，同时，管理的法规仍是过时的。
The Lackses’ experiences over the last 60 years foretold nearly every major ethical issue raised by research on human tissues and genetic material. Now they’re raising a new round of ethical questions for science: though their consent is not (yet) required for publishing private genetic information from HeLa, should it be? Should we require consent before anyone’s genome is sequenced and published? And what control should gene-sharing family members have?
拉克斯家在过去60年中的经历，预示了人体组织及遗传材料研究带来的所有主要的伦理问题。现在，他们正在给科学界提出新一轮的伦理问题：虽然发布来自HeLa的私人基因信息（现在还）不需要征得他们的同意，但是否理应征得同意呢？在任何人的基因组被测序和公布前，我们是否应该争得同意呢？拥有共同基因的家庭成员对这类研究应该有哪些控制呢？
The Lacks family is proud of HeLa’s contributions to society, and they don’t want to stop HeLa research. But they do want to learn about the HeLa genome — how it can be used for the good of science while still protecting the family’s privacy — so they can decide whether to consent to its publication. And they want researchers to acknowledge that HeLa cells are not anonymous and should be treated accordingly.
拉克斯家族对HeLa为社会作出的贡献感到自豪，他们不想阻止HeLa研究。但他们的确想了解HeLa基因组，如何用之造福科学，同时又保护家族隐私，这样他们才能决定是否同意将之公开。他们希望研究者承认HeLa细胞不再是匿名的，所以应该得到相应的对待。
After hearing from the Lacks family, the European team apologized, revised the news release and quietly took the data off-line. (At least 15 people had already downloaded it.) They also pointed to other databases that had published portions of Henrietta Lacks’s genetic data (also without consent). They hope to talk with the Lacks family to determine how to handle the HeLa genome while working toward creating international standards for handling these issues.
听到拉克斯家人这样说之后，从事测序的欧洲研究团队道了歉，修改了其新闻发布，并悄然将数据下了线（至少15人已经将其下载了）。他们还指出其他数据库曾公布过部分亨丽埃塔·拉克斯的基因数据（也未曾获得同意）。他们希望与拉克斯家族对话，以确定如何处理HeLa基因组，同时致力于建立处理这类问题的国际标准。
The publication of the HeLa genome without consent isn’t an example of a few researchers making a mistake. The whole system allowed it. Everyone involved followed standard practices. They presented their research at conferences and in a peer-reviewed journal. No one raised questions about consent.
没有征得同意就公布了HeLa基因组，不是几个研究者犯错误的问题。整个体制使得这件事发生。所有参与者都是按照标准行事的。他们在会议上宣读研究成果，在同行评议的期刊上发表报告，没有人提过是否征得同意的问题。
In the three years since my book about HeLa was published, the Lacks family and I have spoken to audiences by the thousands about these issues. Public response is overwhelmingly consistent and in line with several studies: the public supports the science and wants to help it move forward. But that support is dependent on consent and trust.
我的有关HeLa的书出版三年来，我和拉克斯家人多次在数以千计的听众面前讲这些问题。公众的反应绝大多数时间很一致，而且与几项研究的结果相符合：公众支持科学，希望能够帮助科学进步。但是这种支持的基础是知情同意和信任。