The brazen assaults on two prisons in Iraq this week were significant not only for the hundreds of prisoners who were freed but also for what they indicate about the growing capabilities of Al Qaeda’s Iraq affiliate, American officials and experts outside government said on Tuesday.
伊拉克两所监狱本周遭到肆无忌惮的袭击。美国官员和政府外的专家周二表示，此事之所以具有重要意义，不仅是因为有数以百计的囚犯逃狱，还因为这反映出基地组织(Al Qaeda)伊拉克分支机构的能力日渐增长。
The attacks on the prisons at Abu Ghraib and Taji were carefully synchronized operations in which members of the Qaeda affiliate used mortars to pin down Iraqi forces, employed suicide bombers to punch holes in their defenses and then sent an assault force to free the prison’s inmates, Western experts said.
西方专家透露，对阿布格莱布和塔吉两地的监狱发起的袭击属于精心配合的行动，基地分支机构的成员采用迫击炮压制伊拉克部队，部署自杀式爆炸人员来突破其防御设施，然后派出一支突击队去释放两所监狱的囚犯。
“We are concerned about the increased tempo and sophistication of Al Qaeda operations in Iraq,” said a senior State Department official , who requested anonymity because he did not want to be seen as commenting on Iraq’s internal affairs.
美国国务院的一名高级官员称，“基地组织在伊拉克采取行动的频率和复杂性都在升高，我们对此十分关切。”他要求匿名引用，以免被视为评论伊拉克内部事务。
James F. Jeffrey, who was the United States ambassador in Baghdad when the last American troops left in December 2011, said that Iraqi forces had performed poorly and that it was clear that their skills had deteriorated now that the American troops training them were gone.
詹姆斯·F·杰弗里(James F. Jeffrey)是2011年12月最后一批美军撤离伊拉克时的美国驻巴格达大使。他表示，伊拉克部队表现糟糕，由于训练他们的美军已经撤离，他们的技能发生了退化。
“This is the first example I have seen that the absence of American troops that would have provided tactical training has had an impact on the battlefield,” said Mr. Jeffrey, who is now a visiting fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
杰弗里目前在华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)任访问学者。他说，“本可提供战术训练的美军的缺席影响了战局，这是我看到的第一个相关案例。”
The audacity of the assaults underscored the worsening conditions in Iraq, where stability has been undermined by car bombings and other violence tied to a resurgence of sectarian tensions in the country, largely between the majority Shiites and minority Sunnis.
此次攻击之大胆突显了日益恶化的伊拉克局势。该国的稳定遭到了汽车炸弹袭击等暴力活动的破坏，这些暴力活动与重新爆发的宗派对立有关，其中主要是占多数的什叶派和占少数的逊尼派之间的冲突。
The Al Qaeda affiliate in Iraq is a largely homegrown organization of Sunni militant extremists that include foreign fighters and has had some foreign leaders. 
基地组织伊拉克分支机构基本是由逊尼派武装极端分子组成的本土组织，也包含一些外国武装人员和领导者。
“This attack is unlike any other attack when they target a coffee shop or a public market,” said Hamid Fadhil, a political science professor at Baghdad University. “They are targeting the most secured place with big numbers of security forces.”
巴格达大学的政治学教授哈米德·法迪勒(Hamid Fadhil)说，“本次袭击不同于其他任何针对咖啡馆或集市的攻击。他们攻击的是安保最完备的地方，那里驻有大量的安全部队。”
Other Iraqis said the prison break had intensified their fears of being killed or injured by just venturing outside at the wrong time. “If Al Qaeda can attack a prison, it means they can do whatever they want whenever they want,” said a lawyer, Meluk Abdil Wahab, 45.
另外一些伊拉克人则表示，越狱事件让他们更加害怕，仅仅是在错误时间外出就可能遇害或受伤。45岁的律师梅鲁克·阿卜杜勒·瓦哈卜(Meluk Abdil Wahab)说，“如果基地组织有能力攻击监狱，那就意味着他们有能力在任何时间干任何想做的事。”
Thousands of inmates were in Taji and Abu Ghraib, the prison made infamous by the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal during the eight-year American occupation, and there were conflicting accounts on the number of escapees and casualties.
数千名囚犯曾被关押在塔吉和阿布格莱布两地的监狱，后者因美军占领伊拉克八年期间的虐囚丑闻而臭名昭著。越狱报道中，有关逃跑和伤亡人数的说法不一。
But there appeared to be little dispute that hundreds of Qaeda members, some of whom had been captured by Americans forces before they withdrew, were now on the loose, an outcome that sent fear through Baghdad and beyond.
但有一点几无争议，数百名基地组织成员已经逃之夭夭，其中一部分人是在美军撤离之前被其俘获的。这个结果令巴格达及周边地区蒙上恐怖阴影。
Al Qaeda said 500 inmates had escaped from the two prisons, all of them mujahedeen, or holy warriors. Iraqi officials said 800 prisoners had fled from Abu Ghraib, of which 400 had been recaptured or killed.
基地组织称两个监狱共有500名囚犯逃跑，全部都是圣战者。伊拉克官方称，阿布格莱布有800名囚犯出逃，其中400人被抓回或击毙。
They said that no prisoners had escaped from Taji, but that an unspecified number had been killed there.
他们说，没有囚犯从塔吉出逃，但在那里有人被击毙，具体数字未予透露。
There have been other signs the Al Qaeda’s affiliate is becoming a growing threat. About 80 car bombs and suicide bombings were carried out in May, a type of attack generally associated with it. That was the highest number of such attacks since March 2008.
还有一些迹象也表明基地组织的威胁正在加剧。5月共发生了大约80起汽车炸弹和自杀式炸弹袭击，这种袭击手法通常是和基地联系在一起。而这个数字是自2008年3月以来最高的。
But Mr. Jeffrey said that the prison breakout was especially worrisome because it would strengthen extremist fighters in the region and encourage some Iraqis in Sunni areas to take a more militant stance, since the episode would be seen as sign that the Al Qaeda affiliate is getting stronger while the Iraqi government forces are ineffective.
但杰弗里说越狱事件格外令人担忧，因为这会加强该地区极端武装分子的实力，怂恿逊尼派地区的一些伊拉克人选择更军事化的立场，因为这起事件会被视作基地组织实力增强的表现，而伊拉克政府军则显得无能。
“It will provide seasoned leadership and a morale boost to Al Qaeda and its allies in both Iraq and Syria,” Mr. Jeffrey said. “And it is likely to have an electrifying impact on the Sunni population in Iraq, which has been sitting on the fence.”
“这会给伊拉克和叙利亚的基地组织及其盟友带去经验丰富的领导力量，并且提振它的士气，”杰弗里说。“同时可能会让伊拉克的逊尼派人士变得异常兴奋，而在过去一段时间他们一直处在左右摇摆之中。”
The escape of Qaeda-linked prisoners is also likely to increase the threat against the leaders of Sunni tribes that aligned themselves with American troops during the troop “surge” in 2007 and 2008 and fought the extremist group.
与基地相关的囚犯的越狱还有可能给一些逊尼派部落领袖造成威胁，这些部落在2007年和2008年美军发起“增兵”行动时曾给予配合，并和极端主义组织作战。
Kirk Sowell, the editor of the newsletter Inside Iraqi Politics, said the episode has also punctured Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki’s carefully devised image as the man who brought order to Iraq — all the more so since Mr. Maliki has controlled the appointment of senior military officials and maintained a tight hold on the defense and interior ministries.
通讯简报《伊拉克政治内情》(Inside Iraqi Politics)编辑柯克·索维尔(Kirk Sowell)说，这起事件还破坏了总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)精心树立起的形象，即他给伊拉克带来了秩序——尤其是考虑到他还控制着军方高层人事权，紧抓国防部和内务部大权不放。
“The glow that Maliki had of being the strong leader who rebuilt Iraq, that’s gone,” Mr. Sowell said.
“马利基作为重建伊拉克的强势领导者的这一道光环算是消失了，”索维尔说。
According to the Qaeda-affiliated account, the planners of the assaults, which began Sunday evening, coordinated the detonation of 12 car bombs and a barrage of mortar rounds and rockets to kill sentries outside the prisons as groups of heavily armed assailants who had taken an oath not to emerge alive until the prisoners were freed, breached the entrances.
据与基地组织相关的消息源声称，这起从周日晚间开始的监狱袭击行动的策划者组织了12起汽车炸弹爆炸和强大的迫击炮与火箭弹攻势，用来消灭监狱外的岗哨，几组重火力突击队在立下不救出囚犯决不生还的誓言后，攻破了监狱大门。
An emergency committee formed by Mr. Maliki to investigate the attacks said that its initial findings suggested that “some of the guards were involved with the terrorist attackers.”
马利基成立了一个紧急委员会调查此次袭击，委员会称，初步调查显示“一些监狱守卫加入了恐怖主义袭击者的行列”。