An American freelance journalist held captive for nearly two years by Al Qaeda’s branch in Syria was freed on Sunday in a handover to United Nations peacekeepers in the Golan Heights, who then released him to United States government officials.
周日，被基地组织(Al Qaeda)的叙利亚分支组织关押将近两年的一名美国自由记者获释。他在戈兰高地被移交给联合国(United Nations)维和人员，后者随即把他交给了美国政府官员。
The freelance journalist, Peter Theo Curtis, 45, from Boston, was abducted near the Syria-Turkey border in October 2012. He was held by the Nusra Front, the Qaeda affiliate in Syria, which has broken with the even more radical Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS. Another American journalist, James W. Foley, who was kidnapped in Syria the following month, was beheaded last week by ISIS, which posted the images of his death on YouTube.
45岁的自由记者彼得·西奥·柯蒂斯(Peter Theo Curtis)来自波士顿，2012年10月在叙利亚与土耳其边界附近遭到绑架。他被基地组织在叙利亚的分支努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)关押，该组织已与更加激进的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）断绝关系。随后一个月在叙利亚遭到绑架的另一名美国记者詹姆斯·W·福利(James W. Foley)上周被ISIS斩首，并将杀害他的视频放在了YouTube上。
The United Nations confirmed in a statement on its website that Mr. Curtis was transferred to the custody of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Al Rafid village, in the disputed Golan Heights region straddling Syria and Israel, at 6:40 p.m. local time.
联合国在其网站的声明中确认，柯蒂斯已于当地时间下午6:40被移交给戈兰高地拉斐德村的联合国维和部队看护。处在冲突中的戈兰高地地区位于叙利亚和以色列之间。
“After receiving a medical checkup, Mr. Curtis was handed over to representatives of his government,” the statement said. Marie Harf, a deputy State Department spokeswoman, said Mr. Curtis was then taken to Tel Aviv.
“经过医疗检查之后，柯蒂斯被交给了美国政府代表，”声明称。国务院副发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)表示，柯蒂斯随后已被送往特拉维夫。
Mr. Curtis’s extended family released a statement thanking the governments of the United States and Qatar and “the many individuals, private and public, who helped negotiate the release of our son, brother and cousin.”
柯蒂斯的大家庭发表声明对美国、卡塔尔政府以及“许多曾帮忙协商释放我们的儿子、兄弟和表亲的个人或公共机构工作人员”表示了感谢。
Nancy Curtis, the journalist’s mother, asserted in the statement that his release was secured without any ransom payment, one of the primary motivations for such abductions by the Nusra Front, ISIS and affiliated groups. It remains unclear what Mr. Curtis’s captors received, if anything, for releasing him.
柯蒂斯的母亲南希·柯蒂斯(Nancy Curtis)在声明中确定，他获释时没有支付任何赎金——索要赎金是努斯拉阵线、ISIS和相关机构进行绑架的主要动机之一。目前还不清楚俘获柯蒂斯的人通过释放他获得了什么好处。
“While the family is not privy to the exact terms that were negotiated, we were repeatedly told by representatives of the Qatari government that they were mediating for Theo’s release on a humanitarian basis without the payment of money,” Mrs. Curtis said.
柯蒂斯说，“我们家人并不了解协商的具体条件，而卡塔尔政府代表曾反复告诉我们，他们是站在人道主义的立场上来调停释放西奥一事的，不需要支付金钱。”
President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry welcomed the news, coming less than a week after the beheading of Mr. Foley had focused world attention on how the administration was confronting the ascendance of radical Islamic militancy in the Middle East, particularly ISIS.
奥巴马总统和美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)对这个消息表示欢迎。不到一周前，福利被斩首一事引起了全球对奥巴马政府的关注，看它将如何应对中东地区日益猖獗的激进伊斯兰武装力量，尤其是ISIS的问题。
“The president shares in the joy and relief that we all feel now that Theo is out of Syria and safe,” Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, said. “But we continue to hold in our thoughts and prayers the Americans who remain in captivity in Syria, and we will continue to use all of the tools at our disposal to see that the remaining American hostages are freed.”
“西奥已经安全离开叙利亚，我们现在都很高兴和放松，总统也是一样，”白宫发言人埃里克·舒尔茨(Eric Schultz)说。“但是我们仍然记挂着那些还被关在叙利亚的美国人，并且在为他们祈祷，我们还将利用所有可利用的手段，直到剩下的所有美国人质都能获释。”
Mr. Kerry acknowledged that “after a week marked by unspeakable tragedy, we are all relieved and grateful knowing that Theo Curtis is coming home.” In a statement posted on the State Department website, Mr. Kerry also said: “Over these last two years, the United States reached out to more than two dozen countries asking for urgent help from anyone who might have tools, influence, or leverage to help secure Theo’s release and the release of any Americans held hostage in Syria.”
克里承认，“在可怕的悲剧过去一周后，得知西奥·柯蒂斯即将回家，我们都如释重负，并心怀感恩。”在国务院网站上的一份声明中，克里还说：“过去两年里，美国找到二十多个国家，只要是可能掌握了相关手段、影响力或筹码的人，有助于确保西奥或任何在叙利亚被劫为人质的美国人获释，我们都向他们发出了紧急的求助。”
In a video dated July 18 and obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Curtis is seen disheveled, with long unkempt hair and bound hands, with an armed man holding an automatic weapon at his side. Mr. Curtis begs for his life, saying: “I have three days left. Three days — please do something.” A video released just weeks earlier, on June 30, had a different tone. Speaking from a script, he says his captors had treated him well and that he “had everything” he needed.
在《纽约时报》获得的一段视频中，柯蒂斯蓬头垢面，双手被绑着，一名手握自动武器的男子站在他身旁。柯蒂斯求救说：“我只剩三天时间了。三天——请做些什么吧。”视频上标注的时间是7月18日。但在早几周的6月30日公布的一段视频里，柯蒂斯的语气完全不同。他照着一份稿子说，俘获他的人对他很好，他需要的“一切”都有。
“Everything has been perfect — food, clothing, even friends,” he says in the footage.
“一切都很好——吃的、穿的，甚至还有朋友，”他在镜头中说。
That description of his captivity is at odds with the accounts given by Matthew Schrier, an American photojournalist who escaped in July 2013 after being held for seven months, much of the time alongside Mr. Curtis in the same makeshift prison cell.
他对囚禁状况的描述，与美国摄影记者马修·施里尔(Matthew Schrier)的说法不符。2013年7月，在被关押了7个月后，施里尔得以逃脱。在那7个月中，施里尔有相当一部分时间是和柯蒂斯一起被关在同一间临时牢房里的。
Mr. Schrier described how his captors had tortured and starved him. In an interview soon after he regained his freedom, Mr. Schrier said his captors had forced a car tire over his knees, immobilized him with a wooden rod slid behind his legs, rolled him face down on a cement floor and beat the soles of his feet until he could not walk.
施里尔描述了俘获他的人是如何拷问他，让他挨饿的。在重获自由后不久接受采访时，施里尔说，那些人将一个汽车轮胎套在他的膝盖处，再在他的双腿间支了一根木棒，让他动弹不得，还把他脸朝下摁在水泥地板上，打他的脚底板，直到他走不了路。