A RECENT United Nations report says that nearly half a million Ukrainians have fled the country since April. The fact that families run from a war zone is heartbreaking but hardly unexpected. The disturbing part lies in the details — of the roughly 454,000 people who had fled Ukraine by the end of October, more than 387,000 went to Russia. Most of those who fled were Russian speakers from the east, but this still raises a sobering question: If this is a conflict between Ukraine and Russia, why did so many Ukrainians choose to cast their lot with the enemy?
最近的一份联合国报告称，自4月以来，有将近50万乌克兰人逃离了乌克兰。携家带口纷纷逃离战区的事实的确令人心碎，但却一点也不出人意料。令人不安的部分在于细节——截止10月底，共有大约45.4万人离开了乌克兰，有38.7万余人去了俄罗斯。大多数逃离者都是来自东部地区说俄语的人，但这仍然提出了一个发人深省的问题：如果这是一场乌克兰与俄罗斯之间的冲突，那么为什么这么多乌克兰人会选择把自己的命运与敌人绑在一起？
Moscow’s denials of involvement in eastern Ukraine are, of course, absurd: It is clear that the separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk are equipped, reinforced and trained by Russians. That said, if Vladimir V. Putin had tried sending unmarked commandos to set up sham republics in western Ukraine, where anti-Russian sentiment runs high, his men would have been returned to the Kremlin in body bags. Yes, Mr. Putin is brewing unrest in the east, but he is brewing with local ingredients. He is connecting with the population using a language they speak and a symbolism they understand.
当然，莫斯科否认介入乌克兰东部事务的做法很荒谬：很明显，顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克的分裂分子都是由俄罗斯人提供武装、增援和训练的。即便如此，如果弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)试图把没有标识的突击队员派往乌克兰西部——这里的反俄情绪十分强烈——建立伪共和国，他的人马就会被装进尸袋里送回克里姆林宫。的确，普京在东部酝酿动乱，但他却是在用当地的原料酝酿。他正在与和他们使用同一种语言，使用他们能理解的象征符号的人建立联系。
The unpalatable reality is that a significant portion of eastern Ukrainians — the very people on the ground living and suffering through this conflict — distrust Kiev and the West and at least tacitly support Russia and the separatists. And frankly, that isn’t surprising.
令人不快的事实是，很大一部分东乌克兰人——正是战场上的那些人，他们经历了这场冲突并忍受了痛苦——不信任基辅和西方，而且至少还在暗地里支持俄罗斯和分裂分子。坦白地说，这并不令人惊讶。
Last month the Ukrainian president, Petro O. Poroshenko, decided to freeze government pensions and cut off funding for schools and hospitals in the eastern provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk. Unfortunately, the separatist thugs fighting there don’t rely on food stamps to buy weapons — they get them from Russia. All that Mr. Poroshenko accomplished was giving Mr. Putin the “proof” to tell the starving pensioners of the region: “See — the West doesn’t care if you die.” This is a sentiment that is growing stronger and stronger, according to reports coming out of the region.
上个月，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)决定冻结给东部省份顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克的学校和医院的政府津贴，并切断对它们的资助。不幸的是，在那里作战的分裂主义暴徒并不依靠粮票来购买武器——他们能从俄罗斯得到这些东西。波罗申科所取得的成就就是给普京提供了“证据”，告诉当地正在挨饿的领取抚恤金者：“瞧——西方根本不管你的死活。”根据当地报道，这种情绪目前正变得愈加强烈。
Equally awful is Kiev’s decision to maintain a relationship with the Azov battalion, an ultranationalist paramilitary group of around 400 men that uses Nazi salutes and insignia. To anyone familiar with eastern Ukraine’s bloody history during World War II, allowing the Azov battalion to fight in the region is a bit like sponsoring a Timothy McVeigh Appreciation Night in Oklahoma City. It does nothing but infuriate the local population and provide Mr. Putin with yet another opportunity to shed the mantle of invader and position himself as a protector.
同样糟糕的是，基辅决定与“阿佐夫”军营(Azov battalion)保持关系。“阿佐夫”军营是一个极端民族主义者的准军事组织，拥有大约400名成员，使用的是纳粹的敬礼方式与徽章。对于任何熟悉二战期间乌克兰东部血腥历史的人来说，允许“阿佐夫”军营在当地作战，有点像在俄克拉荷马城举办蒂莫西·麦克维(Timothy McVeigh)的“庆功晚会”。这样做非但起不到任何作用，反而激怒了当地人民，给普京提供了另一个掩饰侵略，并把自己定位为保护者的机会。
The impact of World War II, or, as most people there call it, The War, on eastern Ukrainian consciousness cannot be understated. My childhood in the northeast city of Kharkov (now called Kharkiv) in the 1980s was surrounded by The War, 40 years after it ended. Every family — Russian, Ukrainian, Roma, Jewish — had ghost relatives who had vanished or perished. One of my earliest memories is of asking my father where the mortar holes pockmarking the outside of our apartment block had come from; one of my father’s earliest memories is of fleeing Kharkov mere hours before the Nazis invaded the city. Eastern Ukrainians today, especially the older generations, respond to swastikas and wolfsangel runes — Nazi symbols now used by Ukrainian ultranationalists — about as well as African-Americans respond to burning crosses.
二战——那里的大多数人称之为“那场战争”(The War)——对东乌克兰人思想意识的影响不可低估。上世纪80年代，我在东北部城市哈尔科夫（Kharkov，现在写作Kharkiv）度过的童年时代仍然被战争的阴影包围，这时战争已经结束了40年。每个家庭——俄罗斯的、乌克兰的、罗马的、犹太的——都有失踪或死亡的亲属。我最早的记忆之一，就是问父亲，我们公寓大楼外部那些迫击炮留下的窟窿是从哪里来的；我父亲最早的记忆之一，就是在距离纳粹侵略哈尔科夫仅几小时的时候逃离这座城市。如今的东乌克兰人，尤其是老一代，看到卐字符和“狼钩”——乌克兰极端民族主义者现在使用的纳粹标记——会做出的反应，和非裔美国人看到燃烧的十字架是一样的。
Mr. Putin and the Russian news media say that western Ukrainians in Mr. Poroshenko’s government are neo-Nazis. The West denies these claims, averring that there are no neo-Nazi elements in the Kiev government. Both are wrong. The Kiev government and the armies fighting in eastern Ukraine contain a small minority of neo-Nazi ultranationalists. To eastern Ukrainians, however, even one is too many.
普京和俄罗斯新闻媒体表示，波罗申科政府的西乌克兰人是新纳粹分子。西方否认了这些说法，坚决表示基辅政府不存在新纳粹成分。这两种说法都是错的。基辅政府和在乌克兰东部作战的军队中有一小部分新纳粹极端民族主义者。不过，对于东乌克兰人而言，一个就已经够多了。
Washington and the Western media have largely ignored the negative ramifications of Kiev’s actions. The State Department has said nothing about the pension freeze’s effect on the local population of eastern Ukraine; reports of the Azov battalion’s use of Nazi insignia have not been addressed in any meaningful manner. Mr. Putin’s greatest weapon of all may be the West’s refusal to speak directly to the people of eastern Ukraine. When I talk to family friends still living in Kharkiv, they ask me, “Why does the West label us as enemies?”
华盛顿和西方媒体在很大程度上忽视了基辅的行为所造成的负面影响。美国国务院(State Department)没有提到冻结退休金对乌克兰东部的居民所产生的影响；关于“阿佐夫”军营使用纳粹标志的报道没有得到任何切实的处理。普京最有力的武器，可能就是西方国家拒绝直接与乌克兰东部的人民对话。当我与仍然住在哈尔科夫的家族友人交谈时，他们问我，“为什么西方要把我们当成敌人？”