KIEV, Ukraine — As the center of the Ukrainian capital tipped into a maelstrom of gunfire and blood on Thursday, a man wearing a helmet stood on a street corner near Independence Square, the epicenter of the violence, holding a leaf of printer paper.
乌克兰基辅——周四，乌克兰首都中心区域陷入枪声与鲜血之时，一名戴头盔的人站在暴力冲突中心独立广场附近的街角，举着一页打印纸。
“Guys,” he called out, “we are forming a new hundred. Please sign up.”
“各位，”他喊道，“我们正在成立一个新的百人队。加入我们吧。”
Anton Chontorog, 23, a computer programmer, joined a small crowd of young men who lined up to enroll in the “hundred,” the basic organizing unit of a strikingly resilient force that is providing the tip of the spear in the violent showdown with government security forces. The sotni, as the units are called, take their name from a traditional form of Cossack cavalry division. Activists estimate at least 32 such groups are in Kiev now, with more forming all the time.
23岁的计算机程序员安东·乔托罗格(Anton Chontorog)与一小群年轻人一起排队，准备加入“百人队”——它是一支具有超强复原能力的队伍的基本组织单元，这支队伍在与政府安全部队的暴力对决中发挥了先锋作用。该些单元被称为百人队，名字来自传统的哥萨克骑兵师。活动人士估计，基辅目前至少有32个百人队，新的百人队也在不断成立。
Mr. Chontorog said that he had been in the square many times as a protester, but that after the violence on Thursday wanted to commit himself to the fight, which meant following orders from the commander of his hundred. “A volunteer just shows up to help,” he said. “The difference is that a member of a hundred has obligations.”
乔托罗格表示，他曾多次来广场参加抗议活动，但在周四的暴力冲突后，他想要参与战斗，这意味着他将听从所在百人队队长的命令。“志愿者只会现身帮忙，”他说。“百人队成员则有服从的责任，区别就在这里。”
Across Kiev and beyond, personal barriers that once defined the limits of behavior are crumbling, pushing this fractured but, until a few weeks ago, proudly peaceful nation of 46 million into a spiral of chaos.
在基辅及其他地方，人们用以确定自身行为界限的屏障正在垮塌，将这个拥有4600万人口的国家推入混乱之中，这个国家虽然存在分歧，直到数周之前却仍拥有引以自豪的和平。
The Ukrainian authorities and their allies in the Kremlin identify the source of the increase in violence as extremists and terrorists, the young militants of sometimes sinister, far-right political affiliations with ideologies formed in the struggle against Polish and Soviet domination. They have provided much of the front-line muscle in increasingly bloody clashes with the police.
乌克兰当局及他们在克里姆林宫(Kremlin)的盟友认为，极端分子及恐怖分子是导致暴力活动增加的源头，这些年轻的激进分子时或拥有险恶的极右政治倾向，并且保持着乌克兰反抗波兰及苏联统治时的意识形态。在抗议者与警方日益激烈的流血冲突中，他们提供了大部分的前线力量。
But there are thousands of other protesters who, like Mr. Chontorog, are late converts to militancy, who say they believe that the government has left them with no other choice by deploying so much lethal violence itself. On Thursday, a few antigovernment militants could be seen carrying weapons, but with reports that the police have killed more than 70 protesters, most of the gunfire clearly came from the other side of the barricades. The interior minister reported that 29 police officers had been taken to the hospital and 67 had been captured by the protesters.
不过，也有数千名抗议者像乔托罗格一样，后来才转而选择武力。他们的说法是，他们认为政府自身实施了大量致命性暴力，致使他们别无选择。周四，人们看到了一些携带武器的反政府激进分子，然而，报道称警方杀害了70多名抗议者，大部分枪火明显来自路障的另一边。内政部报告称，已有29名警察被送往医院，67名警察被抗议者俘虏。
Nonetheless, the murky nature of the opposition gathered in Independence Square, at least on its fringes, is causing problems for the United States and the European Union, which would prefer a neat apposition of peaceful, pro-democracy demonstrators versus the thuggish kleptocracy of President Viktor F. Yanukovych. But that line of thinking often blurs in the streets.
尽管如此，聚集在独立广场的反对派的性质非常模糊，至少从反动派的边缘组织来看是如此，这就给美国和欧盟带来了问题，二者更希望看到一个简单的局面——和平倡导民主的示威者对抗维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)总统领导的残暴盗贼政府。然而，在街头抗议活动中，这条思路往往显得模糊不清。
The ambiguity was captured on Thursday by a 25-year-old man wearing a mask who, after a victorious battle on Khreschatyk Street in Kiev that morning, gave a blunt summary of his cause: “Nationalism is what I believe in,” said the man, who gave his name only as Nikolo. “The nation is my religion.”
周四，在胜利结束当天早晨在基辅赫雷夏蒂克大街的战斗之后，一名戴着面具的25岁男子直言不讳地总结了他参与战斗的原因，体现了前述模糊性。“我相信的是民族主义，”这名自称尼科洛(Nikolo)的人说。“这个民族就是我的宗教信仰。”
Since the protests began in November, after Mr. Yanukovych spurned a trade and political deal with the European Union, Nikolo has traveled six times from his home in the western city of Lviv to hurl firebombs and rocks, and to prove a belligerent point that violence works.
抗议活动始于11月，起因是亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟签订贸易及政治协议。自那时以来，尼科洛已经六次离开家乡所在的西部城市利沃夫，来基辅投掷燃烧弹和石头，以此证明一个好战的观点——暴力是管用的。
“What have humanism and pacifism ever brought to any nation?” he asked, clutching a battered metal shield and a metal rod, his soot-blackened face covered by a brown balaclava. “Revolutions are violent.”
“人道主义与和平主义给任何一个民族带来过什么呢？”他问道，“革命都是暴力的。”他紧握着破旧的金属盾牌和金属棒，棕色的巴拉克拉瓦帽遮住了他那张被烟熏黑的脸。
Young militants like Mr. Chontorog and Nikolo are by no means the only presence on the streets. More typical, perhaps, is the 33-year-old manager of an American telephone company here who on Thursday drove his blue family car to the barricades and casually unloaded shopping bags filled with empty glass bottles to help replenish the protest movement’s supply of firebombs.
街头绝不是只有像乔托罗格和尼科洛这样的年轻激进分子。更典型的可能是本地一家美国电话公司的经理。周四，这名33岁的经理开着蓝色的家庭用车来到路障处，若无其事地卸下了一些装满空玻璃瓶的购物袋，为抗议活动补充燃烧弹供应。
“A week or even a few days ago, I would never have seen myself doing this,” said the well-dressed manager, who gave only his first name, Viktor, a supporter from the start of what began three months ago as a peaceful and often joyous revolt against Mr. Yanukovych. “Now, I am ready to bring not just bottles but also gasoline.”
“一周前，甚至是几天之前，我绝不会看到自己做这些事情，”这名衣着讲究的经理说。“现在，我不仅愿意来送瓶子，还愿意来送汽油。”这名经理只说自己名为维克托(Viktor)，从一开始就支持抗议活动。三个月前开始的时候，抗议活动只是针对亚努科维奇的和平反抗，往往还带有欢乐气氛。
He added, in a commonly expressed sentiment: “Of course I don’t like violence. What is happening is very sad,” he said. “But violence is just a response to violence on the other side.”
他接下来的话体现了人们普遍表达的一种情绪，“当然，我不喜欢暴力。现在的情况太令人痛心了。”他说。“不过，我们只是以暴制暴而已。”
But while the ranks of the protesters are diverse, the young militants are the foot soldiers in a deepening civil conflict, the steel that refuses to bend under the pressure of thousands of riot police officers, volleys of live ammunition, snipers on rooftops and the looming threat of martial law.
尽管抗议队伍成分多样，然而，在这场逐渐加深的内乱中，中坚力量依然是那些年轻的武装分子，他们像钢铁般坚强，面临数以千计的防暴警察、阵阵弹雨、屋顶的狙击手和步步逼近的戒严令，他们始终拒绝屈服。
They are heirs to a virulent nationalist tradition that traces its roots to Stepan Bandera and the fanatical nationalists of western Ukraine who violently opposed their Polish and Soviet overlords in the 1930s, ’40s and ’50s before finally being subdued. The groups were at times loosely allied with the Nazis, though that may have been a tactical, rather than ideological, alliance.
他们继承了一种烈性的民族主义传统，这种传统的根源可以追溯到斯捷潘·班杰拉(Stepan Bandera)和西乌克兰的狂热民族主义分子身上，上世纪30、40和50年代，他们曾暴力反抗波兰和苏联主子的统治，最终遭到压服。这些团体时或与纳粹结成松散联盟，不过，这可能只是一种战术同盟，与意识形态无关。
The sotni provide a quasi-military discipline to the opposition’s street muscle. The commanders of the hundreds meet with other leaders of bands of young men under the umbrella of the Maidan Self Defense organization, which is led by Andri Parubi, a member of the opposition Fatherland Party, though his control over some of the right-wing street groups appears tenuous at times.
百人队让反对派的街头力量有了准军事纪律。百人队的队长会和隶属于独立广场自卫组织(Maidan Self Defense)的其他几支青年队伍的领导人进行会商，自卫组织的领导人是反对党祖国联盟(Fatherland Party)的成员安德里·帕鲁比(Andri Parubi)，但他对一些右翼街头组织的控制有时显得软弱乏力。
In addition to the hundreds, several other groups have fielded militarized bands of men. The Svoboda political party, the parliamentary wing of a broader western Ukrainian nationalist movement, has activists armed with clubs, chains and other bludgeons.
除了百人队，还有几个组织也派了军事化的队伍上阵。全乌克兰自由联盟(Svoboda Party)内就有以短棍、铁链和其他钝器为武器的活动分子，该党是规模更大的西乌克兰民族主义运动在议会的分支。
Svoboda has at times clashed with another nationalist organization of mounting influence in the street politics called Right Sector, a coalition of a half-dozen hard-line nationalist groups that were once on the fringe.
全乌克兰自由联盟不时和名为“正义部”(Right Sector)的另一个民族主义组织发生冲突，后者是由曾处于政坛边缘的六个强硬派民族主义组织结成的联盟，其在街头政治中的影响力正日渐增强。
But if these groups, whose members are far outnumbered by nonviolent protesters and also by the police, were the only ones driving Ukraine’s opposition to Mr. Yanukovych, the president could easily have defeated them weeks ago. Behind them stands a mass of others who recoil at pugnacious nationalism and scenes of mayhem but who now stand shoulder to shoulder with outfits like Right Sector, enraged that security forces resorted to violence to crack down on what had been a mostly peaceful protest in the mold of the Orange Revolution of 2004.
然而，如果说这些团体是驱动乌克兰境内反亚努科维奇运动的唯一力量，那总统早在数周前就可以轻而易举地打垮他们，因为他们的人数远少于非暴力抗议者，也远少于警方。他们的身后还站着大批民众，这些民众本来不支持好战的民族主义和暴力混战场面，现在却和“正义部”这样的团体并肩站在了一起，因为安全部队以暴力镇压抗议的行为激怒了他们。此次抗议在大多数时候都是和平的，就像是2004年橙色革命(Orange Revolution)的翻版。
Since the beginning of this week’s mayhem in Kiev on Tuesday, about 600 people a day have signed up to go from Lviv to the capital to join the protesters, according to Oksana Medved, 22, a psychologist. She was among the volunteer workers at one of what she said were three centers for people here to register for rides to the capital by bus or car.
基辅本周的暴力乱局从周二开始，据22岁的心理学家奥克萨娜·梅德韦德(Oksana Medved)透露，自那时起，利沃夫每天都有大约600人报名登记，愿意去首都加入抗议者的队伍。她是在登记中心工作的志愿者当中的一员，据她说，一共有三个登记中心，人们可以在这里登记，以乘坐巴士或小轿车赶往首都。
Many Ukrainians, who doggedly oppose the government, look with horror at the use of firebombs, rocks and, on occasion, guns to oust the president, who was democratically elected in 2010 and whose future is scheduled to be decided at the ballot box in 2015.
看到反对派用燃烧弹和石头，偶尔还用枪来驱赶总统下台，许多顽固反对政府的乌克兰人都觉得惊骇不已。亚努科维奇总统是在2010年经民主选举上台的，按照计划，他的未来将由2015年的选举决定。
Revulsion is particularly strong in the east of the country, where Mr. Yanukovych first made his career in politics, where most people speak Russian rather than Ukrainian, and where Ukrainian nationalist heroes like Stepan Bandera are viewed as fascist traitors.
在乌克兰东部，人们的反感尤其强烈。那里是亚努科维奇政坛发迹的起点，那里的大多数人都说俄语，而不是乌克兰语，那里的人将斯捷潘·班杰拉这样的乌克兰民族主义英雄视为法西斯叛徒。
“We have a genetic memory of fascism here,” said Anatoly Skripnik, a 40-year-old businessman in the eastern city of Dnepropetrovk. Many protesters downplayed the role not just of the quasi-military nationalist groups but also of the role that history is playing in the confrontation. “Some from the west are nationalists,” said Nikolai Visinski, an artist, standing on a barricade Thursday evening. “But we are all united in wanting a change of government. You don’t hear people yelling about Stepan Bandera. People just want to live in a free country.”
在乌克兰东部城市第聂伯罗彼得罗夫斯克，40岁的商人阿纳托利·斯克里普尼克(Anatoly Skripnik)说，“在这里，我们对法西斯的记忆代代相传。”许多抗议者不仅对准军事化民族主义团体扮演的角色不以为意，对历史在此次对抗中扮演的角色也是轻描淡写。“来自西部的一些人确实是民族主义者。”周四晚上，艺术家尼古拉·维辛斯基(Nikolai Visinski)站在路障旁说。“不过，我们团结起来只是想更换政府。你不会听到人们呼喊斯捷潘·班杰拉。人们只是想生活在一个自由的国度。”