KIEV, Ukraine — Mayhem gripped the center of the Ukrainian capital on Tuesday evening as riot police officers moved on protesters massed behind barriers raised throughout Independence Square, the focal point of more than two months of protests against President Viktor F. Yanukovych.
乌克兰基辅——周二晚间，随着防暴警察开始驱赶聚集在独立广场(Independence Square)各处路障后面的抗议者，乌克兰首都基辅的中心发生了严重的暴力事件。此次针对总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的抗议已经持续了两个多月，独立广场就是抗议的中心地。
As the attack began just before 8 p.m. local time, the police tried to drive two armored personnel carriers through stone-reinforced barriers outside the Khreschatyk Hotel in the square. But they became bogged down and, set upon by protesters wielding rocks and fireworks, burst into flames, apparently trapping the security officers inside and prompting desperate rescue efforts from their colleagues.
警方于当地时间将近晚8点的时候开始进攻，试图把两辆运输人员的装甲车开进位于广场的赫雷夏蒂克酒店(Khreschatyk Hotel)外的石头路障。然而，车辆受到了阻碍，并遭到挥舞着石块和烟火的抗议者的袭击，然后车身着火，显然是困住了车内的安保人员，促使他们的同事展开了奋力的抢救。
In a wild day of parries and thrusts by the protesters and the police, the authorities in Kiev reported 13 people killed, including two police officers, while protesters accused the police of using live ammunition. It was the bloodiest day of violence since President Yanukovych spurned a trade deal with Europe in November and set of protests that began peacefully but have since involved occasional outbursts of deadly violence.
抗议者与警方疯狂地斗争了一天，基辅官方报称共有13人遇害，其中包括两名警察，抗议者则指责警方使用了实弹。去年11月，总统亚努科维奇拒绝与欧洲签订贸易协议，由此引发了一系列抗议活动。抗议起初是和平进行的，后来便偶尔爆发致命的暴力事件。自抗议活动开始以来，这是最为血腥暴力的一天。
The push into Independence Square by anti-riot forces spread chaos and fire across the protest zone, with tents ablaze as police advanced through clouds of smoke and tear-gas. The 20,000 or so protesters sang the national anthem against the din of percussion grenades, fireworks and what, on occasion, sounded like gunfire.
防暴警察强行进入独立广场，致使混乱和火势在抗议区内蔓延。警方穿越烟雾和催泪瓦斯向前挺进，帐篷纷纷起火。在震荡弹、烟火和类似枪声的零星声响造成的喧嚣之中，大约2万名抗议者仍然高唱国歌。
A phalanx of riot police officers, backed by a water cannon, pushed through protesters’ barricades near the Ukraina Hotel and fired tear gas as they advanced toward the center of the square. People covered in blood staggered to a medical center set up in the protest encampment. In the late evening, a group of several hundred riot police officers finally overpowered protesters at the barricades near the Khreshatyk Hotel and, banging their shields, began to move towards the center of the protester’s encampment on Independence Square. Another phalanx that had earlier penetrated the area, pushing down Instituts’ka Street past the Ukraina Hotel, was stalled by a wall of flaming rubber tires.
以高压水炮为后盾的一个防暴警察方队穿过抗议者在乌克兰饭店(Ukraina Hotel)附近设置的路障，一边朝广场中心挺进，一边发射催泪瓦斯。一些浑身血迹的人踉踉跄跄地走向抗议者营地的一个医疗中心。入夜之时，一个由几百名防暴警察组成的队伍最终战胜了守在赫雷夏蒂克酒店附近路障的抗议者，一边敲击自己的盾牌，一边向独立广场抗议者营地的中心进发。一个较早攻入该区域的方队则沿着乌克兰饭店前方的因斯蒂图茨卡大街(Instituts’ka Street)前进，但他们被一道由燃烧橡胶轮胎搭成的墙阻挡。
With visibility sharply reduced to just a few yards by thick clouds of acrid smoke, it was often difficult to determine who was firing what at whom. Music blared from a stage set up by protesters who, although boxed in all sides, showed little sign of dispersing.
浓重的刺激性烟雾使能见度迅速缩减到了几码的距离，让人经常都很难判断，到底是谁在向谁开火。抗议者设立的讲台上传来巨大的音乐声，抗议者虽然四面受敌，但却毫无分散的迹象。
At an improvised medical center on the fourth floor of the Trade Union Building on Independence Square, scores of the wounded were brought in for treatment. Many had lacerated legs, apparently from the impact of percussion grenades that explode at ground level and spray a shower of plastic shrapnel.
在位于独立广场的工会大楼(Trade Unions Building)四层的临时医疗中心里，可以见到大量的伤者被送来接受治疗。许多人腿部受伤，显然是震荡弹造成的，这种手榴弹在地面爆炸，会释放大量塑料弹片。
Andriy Huk, deputy head of the protester’s medical center, said he had seen one person with gunshot wounds to the stomach.
抗议者医疗中心的副主管安德里·胡克(Andriy Huk)说，他看到了一名腹部中枪的伤者。
Volodomyr Pogorily, another doctor at the medical center, said he had removed five bullets from wounded protesters. A nurse said the wounds she had treated during the day suggested that percussion grenades, which create a deafening noise but are not meant to cause serious injury, had been wrapped in tape with nails and stones to make them more dangerous. 
医疗中心的另一名医生沃洛多米尔·波戈里利(Volodomyr Pogorily)说，他已经从受伤的抗议者身上取出了五颗子弹。一个护士说，她这天处理的伤情表明，有人在震荡弹外用胶条包裹了钉子和石块，意图增加它们的杀伤力。这种手榴弹的本来用途是制造震耳欲聋的巨响，并不是造成严重伤害。
Yevgeny Avramchuk, a protester who was treated at the center, said doctors had removed a pebble from a hole in his calf. “It hurt, yes it hurt. It felt like my shin was hit with a hammer,” he said of his injury. Throughout the evening, doctors rushed along a corridor lined with a filthy carpet and littered with bloody bandages, removing projectiles from wounded people slumped in the hallway.
在医疗中心接受治疗的抗议者叶夫根耶夫·阿夫拉姆丘克(Yevgeny Avramchuk)说，医生从他小腿上的一个洞里取出了一枚石子。“很疼，真的很疼。感觉就像用锤子敲打我的胫骨一样。”他如是形容自己的伤势。整个晚上，医生一直在走廊里奔走来回，帮倒在走廊里的伤者取走身上的弹片。走廊里铺着脏兮兮的地毯，上面散落着血迹斑斑的绷带。
Protesters holding out in Independence Square continued to scream defiance but a powerful loudspeaker system that had filled the center of Kiev for weeks with the sound of protest songs and speeches went down.
坚守独立广场的抗议者仍然在高声表达不满，不过，数周来一直在基辅中心播放抗议歌曲和演讲的一套大功率音响已经停止工作。
Before the sound system failed, Arseniy Yatseniuk, a prominent opposition leader, delivered what could be the final speech from the stage in Independence Square, at least for a time.
前述音响系统失灵之前，知名的反对派领导人阿尔谢尼·亚采纽克(Arseniy Yatsenyuk)在独立广场的舞台上发表了演讲，至少是在一段时间之内，这可能是那个舞台上的最后一次演讲。
“We see that this regime started shooting at people again. They want to drown Ukraine in blood,” he shouted. “We won’t react on a single one of their provocations. But we won’t make any single step back from here, from this Maidan.”
“我们看到，这个政权再一次开始射击民众。他们想让乌克兰淹没在血泊之中，”他喊道。“我们不会对他们的任何一个挑衅做出回应。但我们不会从这儿，从这个广场退后一步。”
Earlier in the day, enraged protesters reoccupied City Hall, which they had vacated two days earlier, and the authorities shut the Kiev subway to thwart opposition calls for reinforcements to defend their encampment.
当天早些时候，愤怒的抗议者重新占领了他们两天前撤离的市政大厅(City Hall)。当局关闭了基辅地铁，以便阻止反对派召集援军来保卫营地。
The police advance followed hours of street battles that destroyed hopes of an early political settlement, stirred in recent days by an amnesty deal. The resumption of violence underscored the volatility of a political crisis that has not only aroused fear of civil war in Ukraine but has also dragged Russia and the West into a geopolitical struggle redolent of the Cold War.
警方向前推进之前，数小时的街头对抗摧毁了早期政治解决的希望，最近几天，特赦交易曾让人们看到了这样的希望。暴力活动的恢复突显了这场政治危机的反复无常，这场危机不仅在乌克兰引发了内战担忧，还将俄罗斯和西方国家拖入一场地缘政治斗争，让人想起了冷战。
The violence began early on Tuesday when antigovernment activists moved out of their barricaded zone around Independence Square and advanced into a government-controlled district, battling riot police officers with stones and Molotov cocktails in the worst clashes in nearly a month. A group of young militants occupied and set fire to the headquarters of the ruling Party of Regions.
暴力事件始于周二早间，当时反政府活动人士走出他们在独立广场周围设立的封锁区，前往一个由政府控制的街区，并且用石头和燃烧弹对抗防暴警察，导致了将近一个月以来最严重的一次冲突。一群年轻的激进分子占领并点燃了执政党地区党(Party of Regions)的总部。
“We have no other way,” said Lena Melniko, a 33-year-old accountant who joined a team of protesters digging up paving stones and passing them on to helmeted fighters to throw at police, “We have been protesting for three months but are stuck in dead end,” she added, seemingly oblivious to the deafening din of percussion grenades fired by police.
“我们没有其他办法，”33岁的会计师列娜·梅尔尼科(Lena Melniko)说，“我们抗议了三个月，现在却陷入了绝境。”她似乎对警方发射震荡弹带来的震耳声音充耳不闻。梅尔尼科与一群抗议者一起撬铺路石，并将石头递给佩戴头盔的战斗人员，用来对抗警察。
Opposition leaders appealed to protesters to stand firm in a series of defiant speeches from the stage in Independence Square, known as Maidan. “We will come out of Maidan either free or slaves. But we don’t want to be slaves,” said Serhiy Sobolev, member of parliament from the Batkivshchyna Party.
反对派领导人在独立广场的舞台上发表了一系列挑衅性讲话，呼吁抗议者坚定立场。来自祖国党(Batkivshchyna Party)的议会成员谢尔盖·索博列夫(Serhiy Sobolev)说，“离开广场的时候，我们可能是自由人，也可能是奴隶。但我们不想成为奴隶。”
Petro Poroshenko, a wealthy opposition member of Parliament whose television station has been broadcasting the protests, called for discipline and defiance.
富有的反对派议员彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)呼吁保持纪律，坚持反抗。波罗申科拥有的电视台一直在播报抗议活动。
“We are here not simply protecting Maidan, we are here protecting Ukraine. We are not simply staying here for the future of Kiev. We are standing for the unity of Ukraine. We are standing for the integrity of Ukraine,” Mr. Poroshenko said, urging residents to converge on the square to show their support. Viktor Pinchuk, a wealthy steel magnate and one of Ukraine’s most prominent so-called oligarchs, issued a plaintive plea that all sides “refrain from the use of force and find a compromise.” Ukraine, he added, has “since its independence avoided bloodshed. We must return to this tradition immediately.”
波罗申科敦促居民到广场聚会，表示对抗议的支持。他说，“我们不只是在保卫广场，我们还在保卫乌克兰。我们留在这儿，不仅是为了基辅的未来。我们是在捍卫乌克兰的团结和统一。”腰缠万贯的钢铁大亨、乌克兰首屈一指的所谓寡头维克托·平丘克(Viktor Pinchuk)苦苦央求各方，“避免使用武力，找到折衷办法。”他还表示，乌克兰“自独立以来一直避免了流血冲突。我们必须立即回归这一传统”。
Like other oligarchs who have mostly tried to hedge their bets throughout more than two months of tumult, Mr. Pinchuk avoided backing either the government’s push to take back Independence Square or the protesters trying to hang on to it. The fighting broke out a day after Russia threw a new financial lifeline to Mr. Yanukovych’s government by buying $2 billion in Ukrainian government bonds.
两个多月的混乱之中，其他寡头大多选择了两边下注以避免损失，与他们一样，平丘克避免支持政府夺回独立广场，也避免支持抗议者坚守广场。此次冲突爆发的前一天，俄罗斯购买了价值20亿美元的乌克兰政府债券，为亚努科维奇政府提供了新的金融援助。
The Russian aid signaled confidence from the Kremlin that important votes in Parliament expected this week to amend the Constitution and form a new cabinet will go in Russia’s favor. It also highlighted the absence of any clear promise of financial aid from the European Union or the United States, which have supported the opposition in Ukraine.
俄罗斯的援助显示了克里姆林宫(Kremlin)抱有信心，认为乌克兰议会本周有关修宪和成立新内阁的重要投票将对俄罗斯有利。这还突显了一个事实，那就是支持乌克兰反对派的欧盟和美国都没有作出任何明确的金融援助承诺。