MANILA — Chris Ibasan travels only about five miles to work each day in one of Manila’s business districts, but it is often a grueling two-hour commute that gets him into the office late.
马尼拉——克里斯·伊巴桑(Chris Ibasan)每天到马尼拉一个商务区上班的路程只有5英里（约合8公里），但这段往往耗时两小时的路程令人筋疲力尽，常常导致他迟到。
“My manager understands,” said Mr. Ibasan, a 24-year-old shipping company employee. “Everyone is late; even the managers are late for work.”
“我的经理很理解，”24岁的航运公司雇员伊巴桑说，“所有人都迟到，就连那些经理也上班迟到。”
From Mr. Ibasan’s perspective, the problem is simple.
在伊巴桑看来，问题很简单。
“There are too many people going to work, too many vehicles and not enough roads,” he said. “And taking the train is like lining up to see a movie star. You wait for hours.”
“太多上班的人，太多车，路却不够，”他说。“坐火车就像排队等着看电影明星一样。要等好几个小时。”
But from an economist’s perspective, the problem is even larger. The 2.2 million vehicles a day that grind away on Manila’s crumbling road system cost the country 876 billion pesos a year, or more than $20 billion, in lost productivity and wasted energy, according to a recent study by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. That is a serious drain on an economy of about $250 billion.
但在经济学家看来，这个问题要更大一些。每天，220万辆车在马尼拉破败的公路上走走停停。根据国际协力机构(Japan International Cooperation Agency)最近的一项研究，因为损失的生产力和被浪费掉的能源，这些车辆每年给该国造成的损失高达8760亿比索，相当于逾200亿美元（约合1200亿元人民币）。对一个规模约为2500亿美元的经济体而言，这是严重的浪费。
“Infrastructure in the Philippines — transport, energy and communication — is in a difficult state to say the least,” said Thierry Geiger, an economist with the World Economic Forum. “Year after year, when we ask business executives based in the country about the state of infrastructure, they say that it is improving. Yet it remains a major bottleneck.”
“菲律宾的基础设施——运输、能源和通信——至少可以说处境艰难，”世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)的经济学家蒂里·盖格尔(Thierry Geiger)说。“每年，当我们问在这个国家的企业高管基础设施情况如何时，他们都会说正在改善。然而，这依然是一个主要瓶颈。”
The Philippines has been one of the fastest-growing economies in Asia in recent years. The gross domestic product rose 7.2 percent in 2013, although it is expected to slow modestly this year while remaining above 6 percent, according to most regional economists. In addition to new, streamlined government spending processes and the paying down of public debt, much of the improvement in the economy is linked to the anticorruption efforts of President Benigno S. Aquino III.
菲律宾近年来一直是亚洲增长最快的经济体之一。2013年的国内生产总值(GDP)增长达7.2%，虽然其经济预计今年有所放缓，但据大多数区域经济学家估计，今年的增长率仍将高于6%。除了新的精简政府开支计划和偿还公共债务之外，经济改善的大部分与总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世的反腐败努力有关。
But the infrastructure problems now threaten to hold the Philippines back from reaching the next level, economically speaking, and improving its manufacturing base. Infrastructure problems have surpassed corruption as the leading economic obstacle, according to the most recent World Economic Forum competitiveness report, which is based on responses from people doing business in the country. Manila is plagued by power failures, chronic water shortages, an antiquated telecommunications system, deteriorating roads and bridges and a subpar airport.
但是现在，基础设施的问题让菲律宾经济达到新水平的前景受到威胁，也威胁着其制造业基地的改善。根据最新的世界经济论坛竞争力报告，基础设施问题已超过腐败问题，成为主要的经济障碍，报告是基于对在该国经商的人的调查产生的。马尼拉受到各种问题的困扰，包括电力中断、长期缺水、老掉牙的通信系统、年久失修的道路和桥梁，以及低于标准的机场。
Terminal 1 of the Ninoy Aquino International Airport, for example, where most foreign air carriers serving Manila are based and where most foreign visitors to the country arrive, is often featured in lists of the world’s worst airports. In 2011, 2012 and again this year, parts of the airport’s ceiling collapsed, and recently the air-conditioning failed, leaving international travelers sweltering.
例如，马尼拉国际机场(Ninoy Aquino International Airport)的一号航站楼接待了大多数飞抵该城市的国际航空公司飞机，也是大多数外国人来到菲律宾的第一站，却常常被评为世界上最差的机场之一。在2011年、2012年，以及今年，机场的部分顶棚塌陷，最近那里的空调系统又出现了问题，导致国际旅客挥汗如雨。
In April, Mr. Aquino publicly apologized to travelers for the problem. During a World Economic Forum meeting in May, embarrassed airport officials had to use fans to cool things down.
今年4月，阿基诺因机场问题公开向旅客道歉。在世界经济论坛5月份的一次会议上，尴尬的机场工作人员不得不用风扇来降温。
The infrastructure problems are felt in other ways as well. Many parts of the Philippines experience regular blackouts, but in the last few months the power failures have hit Manila as well. Energy officials say an insufficient number of power plants, combined with increased demand, is straining the country’s grid.
基础设施问题也以其他方式表现出来。虽然菲律宾的许多地区经常遭遇停电，但在过去几个月里，停电的问题已开始影响马尼拉。能源官员说，发电厂的数量不足，加上需求的增长，让国家电网不堪重负。
Mr. Aquino has repeatedly acknowledged the need to invest in infrastructure, noting in recent speeches that the government had increased spending in this area to 400 billion pesos this year, or about $9.1 billion, from 200 billion pesos in 2011.
阿基诺曾多次承认，需要对基础设施进行投资，并在最近的讲话中指出，政府今年已经增加了这方面的支出，达到4000亿比索，约合91亿美元，而2011年的支出是2000亿比索。
The main thrust of the infrastructure program involves public-private partnerships. The government has identified 57 projects, including a natural gas pipeline, airport improvements around the country, highways in Manila and surrounding areas and upgrades to the capital city’s commuter train system. Of those, none have broken ground, but seven contracts have been awarded, and officials say they hope at least that many more will be given out before Mr. Aquino leaves office in 2016.
基础设施计划的主要项目包括一些公私合营项目。政府已确定了57个项目，包括天然气管道、全国各地的机场改造工程、马尼拉及周边地区的公路建设，以及首都通勤列车系统的升级。所有这些项目还没有一项破土动工，但已有7份合同得到授予，官员表示，他们希望在阿基诺2016年卸任之前，至少再将同样数量的合同授予有关公司。
The stakes are high for the Philippines, said Frederic Neumann, a managing director and co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC.
这些项目对菲律宾至关重要，汇丰银行亚洲经济研究执行主任和联席主管雷德里克·诺伊曼(Frederic Neumann)说。