The classroom in Ghalanai, an area nestled amid the mountains of Pakistan’s tribal belt, has the air of a military camp: a solitary tent pitched beside a bombed-out building, ringed by a high wall and protected by an armed gunman.
加拉奈处于巴基斯坦部落带的深山之中，这里的一间教室有一种军营的氛围：一顶孤零零的帐篷扎在被炸毁的楼房旁，四周高墙环绕，还有一名持枪的保护者。
“We need to assure parents that it’s safe,” said Noor Haider, a local tribal leader who took on school security after Taliban militants bombed the school three years ago.
“我们必须让家长相信这里是安全的，”当地部落领袖努尔·海德尔(Noor Haider)说。三年前这所学校塔利班(Taliban)武装人员炸毁后，他就承担起了学校保安的责任。
Extreme measures have become necessary as Taliban militants have pressed their violent campaign against girls’ education in northwestern Pakistan, bombing schools and terrifying pupils and parents.
随着塔利班武装分子在巴基斯坦西北部把暴力行为的矛头对准面向女孩的教育，不断在学校引爆炸弹、恐吓学生和家长，极端措施变得必要。
More than 800 schools in the region have been attacked since 2009, according to government education authorities. But it was a vicious attack last October on an outspoken 15-year-old schoolgirl, Malala Yousafzai, that moved the issue to global prominence.
政府教育部门表示，自2009年以来，该地区共有800多所学校遭到攻击。去年10月，大胆敢言的15岁女学生马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)遭到狠毒袭击，使这个问题受到全球关注。
A Taliban hit man shot Ms. Yousafzai in the head in an attempt to silence her eloquent advocacy of education rights in Swat, a picturesque mountain valley that had been the scene of fierce fighting between the Taliban and the military.
优萨福扎伊在风景秀丽的斯瓦特山谷积极宣扬人们受教育的权利，为了制止她，一名塔利班枪手开枪击中优萨福扎伊的头部。塔利班和巴基斯坦军方曾在斯瓦特山谷展开激战。
After a medical evacuation to Britain, where war surgeons repaired her shattered skull, Ms. Yousafzai has made a startling recovery. In March, she resumed her schooling in Britain. And on Friday she is marking her 16th birthday by addressing a youth assembly at the United Nations headquarters in New York.
优萨福扎伊被送往英国接受进一步抢救，英国的战地外科医生修复了她破碎的头盖骨，使她奇迹般地恢复。今年3月，她开始在英国继续学业。周五，她在自己的16岁生日上，在纽约联合国(United Nations)总部举行的青少年大会上发表演讲。
That speech will be the first unmediated public appearance by a young woman who has become an international symbol of teenage bravery and educational activism. Ms. Yousafzai has won numerous honors and been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. News of her progress is assiduously followed across the world.
这名少女已成了象征青少年勇气和教育维权的国际知名人物，这次演讲将是她首次直接面对公众。优萨福扎伊赢得了诸多荣誉，还获得了诺贝尔和平奖提名。有关她的恢复进展的报道，在世界各地都得到密切关注。
Back in Pakistan, however, the Taliban war on girls’ education continues unabated.
然而在巴基斯坦境内，塔利班反对女孩接受教育的暴力攻击行动仍在继续，势头未减。
Ghalanai is the headquarters of Mohmand, a hilly tribal agency along the Afghan border where schools have been the targets of more than 100 attacks. Military check posts dot the hilltops, overlooking largely barren land. A female suicide bomber almost killed the leader of a religious party here this year.
加拉奈是莫赫曼德特区的首府，这个山峦起伏的特区位于阿富汗边境沿线，当地的学校曾被攻击过100多次。分布在山顶的军方哨所看管着这片基本上贫瘠的土地。今年，一名女性自杀式炸弹袭击者差点杀死了当地一个宗教政党的领袖。
The Pakistani Taliban see schools as symbols of both Western decadence and government authority, but their attacks are also intended to deny the Pakistani military the possibility of establishing temporary bases in the buildings. Typically, they strike in the dead of night, planting explosives that topple buildings and shred desks and blackboards.
巴基斯坦的塔利班一向把学校视作西方颓废和政府权力的象征，但是他们发动袭击也是为了不让巴基斯坦军方在这些建筑物里建立临时基地。他们通常会在深夜发动袭击，埋设炸药，掀翻楼房、炸毁课桌和黑板。
The authorities have struggled to respond. At the Government Girls Primary School, Mr. Haider started the tent school with help from the United Nations. Otherwise, the government has done little, he said.
政府对此有些应接不暇。在政府女子小学(Government Girls Primary School)，海德尔在联合国的帮助下创办了这所帐篷学校。他说，除此之外政府几乎什么都没做。
And the Taliban continue to exert pressure on parents and pupils. Night letters posted in the town describe girls’ schooling as a “product of the West” and order pious Muslims to shun the schools.
此外，塔利班还在继续给家长和学生施压。夜间贴在城里的告示把女孩上学称为“西方世界的产物”，还命令虔诚的穆斯林回避这些学校。
The siegelike situation has led some brave young women to follow Ms. Yousafzai’s example and defy the Taliban edicts. That was the case in Shabqadar, on the edge of Mohmand, where the Taliban decided to send a violent message in December.
这种类似于被围困的局面，促使一些勇敢的年轻女性以优萨福扎伊为榜样，公然反抗塔利班的命令。位于莫赫曼德边缘的沙布卡达尔就是这种情况，去年12月，塔利班决定在这里发出一个暴力讯息。
Hira Gul, a 14-year-old pupil, was awakened by an explosion at midnight. The next morning she found a pile of rubble where her school had stood. The attack came as no surprise. “This has become very common in our area,” she said.
午夜时分，14岁的学生希拉·古尔(Hira Gul)被爆炸声惊醒。次日早晨，她发现自己学校所在的地方变成了一堆废墟。这次袭击并不出人意料。她说，“这在我们这里已经变得很平常了。”
Her teacher, however, was profoundly affected. For days after the attack, the teacher, Fazeelat Bibi, visited the destroyed school every morning “to cry my heart out,” she said.
然而，她的老师法齐拉特·比比(Fazeelat Bibi)却深受影响。比比说，在学校被袭击后的好几天里，她每天早上都会到被炸毁的学校，“痛哭不止”。
She has restarted class in her back garden. But attendance has fallen 75 percent, and Ms. Bibi has started wearing an all-covering burqa to work to avoid attracting the Taliban’s attention.
她开始在自家后院办学。但是来上课的学生减少了75%，同时为了不引起塔利班的注意，比比在工作时开始穿遮住全身的罩袍。
“Teaching here was never easy,” Ms. Bibi said.
比比说，“在这里教书从来都不容易。”
She noted a prevailing conservative mind-set in which education is the preserve of boys. But she added, “Now it’s fear and growing extremism that are making parents keep children at home.”
她指出，多数人的心态都很保守，认为受教育是男孩的特权。但她补充说，“现在，很多家长是出于害怕和日益加剧的极端主义才不让孩子上学的。”
The attacks on schools are mostly the work of the Pakistani Taliban, who see girls’ education as un-Islamic. The group earned global scorn and revulsion after it proudly claimed responsibility for the attack on Ms. Yousafzai — a claim that, at least briefly, helped rally Pakistani public opinion against the movement.
针对学校的攻击大部分是巴基斯坦塔利班所为，他们认为女孩接受教育是违背伊斯兰教义的。在塔利班骄傲地宣布对优萨福扎伊遇袭一事负责后，国际社会纷纷对该组织表示鄙视和不屑。塔利班的声明至少在短时间内促使巴基斯坦公众舆论反对该组织。
In Swat, which lies about 50 miles east of Mohmand, deeper in the mountains, some tribesmen have lionized Ms. Yousafzai as a teenage heroine who stood up to the Taliban where many others have faltered. Despite continuing threats, the girls’ school that she attended, which was run by her father, is open and running at full strength.
斯瓦特位于莫赫曼德以东50英里（约合80.5公里）处，在这里的深山中，一些部落成员把优萨福扎伊奉为敢于直面塔利班的少年女英雄，因为其他很多人不敢这么做。优萨福扎伊就读的女子学校由她父亲经营，虽然这所学校继续面临种种威胁，但是学校仍开着，而且人气颇高。
“We were not expecting the pupils to come back, but they did,” said the school administrator, Iqbal Khan.
学校管理员伊克巴尔·汗(Iqbal Khan)说，“我们并不期待学生们会回来，但是她们回来了。”
But Ms. Yousafzai’s plight has also provoked some contrary reactions in her own community, ranging from jealousy and suspicion to naked fear. An attempt to rename a government girls’ school after her failed after students loudly protested that, by associating with Ms. Yousafzai, they would make targets of themselves.
然而，优萨福扎伊险遭刺杀的经历也在她所在的社区引起了一些相反的反应，从嫉妒、怀疑，到不加掩饰的恐惧。有关方面原本打算用她的名字来重新命名一所政府的女子学校，但在学生们的强烈抗议下取消了这个计划。学生们说，如果和优萨福扎伊扯上关系，她们就会成为攻击目标。
In the bazaar, some residents hint at resentment toward the global attention to Ms. Yousafzai. Some complain that it has overshadowed the bravery of other young women. Others indulge in muttered conspiracies about Western intervention.
在集市上，有些居民在言语中流露出对优萨福扎伊得到的国际关注抱有反感。有人抱怨道，这种关注埋没了其他年轻女性的勇敢。还有人则嘀咕着有关西方干预的阴谋论。
Some have posted crude abuse on Ms. Yousafzai’s Facebook page alongside the praise for her campaign, calling her a “kanjri” — an Urdu word for a prostitute — or an “American agent.”
有人在优萨福扎伊的Facebook页面上赞扬她的努力，也有人开口辱骂，称她为“kanjri”——乌尔都语，意为妓女——或“美国间谍”。
“Many people think it is a fabricated drama,” said Ihsanullah Khan, 35, a university lecturer in Swat’s main town, Mingora. “And so many other people have spoken out against militants, or sacrificed their lives. Why are they forgotten?”
“很多人认为这件事是刻意安排的，”35岁的伊赫萨努拉·汗(Ihsanullah Khan)说，此人在斯瓦特最大的城镇明戈拉担任大学讲师。“很多人都曾公开反对武装分子，有人还献出了生命。为什么他们被遗忘了呢？”
Equally, though, the Taliban war on education has strengthened the resolve of Pakistani leaders who see no choice but to stand up against the militants’ cultural and religious dictates.
但在另一方面，塔利班对教育宣战，也坚定了巴基斯坦领导人的决心，他们别无选择，只能站起来反对塔利班武装分子在文化和宗教上的发号施令。
Mr. Haider, the tribal leader in Ghalanai, said the Taliban had recently kidnapped one of his relatives because he allowed the security forces to draw water from wells on the family’s land.
加拉奈的部落领袖海德尔说，最近，他的一个亲戚因为允许安全部队在他家土地上的水井取水而被塔利班绑架了。
Since elections in May, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, bordering the tribal belt, has been governed by the party of Imran Khan, a charismatic politician who has a reputation for being soft on the Taliban, yet who has also increased the provincial education budget by 30 percent.
自从5月的选举以来，与部落带接壤的开伯尔-普赫图赫瓦省一直由伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)的政党执掌。据称这位颇有魅力的政治人士对塔利班的立场比较软弱，但是，他同时也把该省教育预算增加了30%。
Yet the decision about whether to defy Taliban edicts on girls’ schooling often falls to individual families. The greatest resistance often comes from fearful fathers, said Ms. Bibi, the teacher in Shabqadar.
然而，是否要违抗塔利班对女孩上学的禁令往往由每个家庭自行决定。沙布卡达尔的教师比比说，最大的阻力经常来自感到惧怕的父亲。
“They say they don’t want their daughters to become the next Malala,” she said.
她说，“他们说，不希望自己的女儿成为下一个马拉拉。”