PESHAWAR, Pakistan — Heavily armed gunmen stormed into a military-run school in northwestern Pakistan on Tuesday, killing scores of teachers and schoolchildren and fighting a gun battle with the security forces. The siege continued for more than eight hours, with a large number of students still trapped inside the school compound, before the last of the attackers was killed, officials said.
巴基斯坦白沙瓦——周二，地方官员和称，一群持重型枪械的枪手对巴基斯坦西北部一座军方管理的学校发动了袭击，数十名师生遇难，袭击者还与安全部队展开了一场交火。这场围攻持续了超过8小时，数百名学生被困在校园内，直到最后一名袭击者被击毙。
Government and medical officials said that at least 145 people had been killed, more than 100 of them children. That figure includes the nine attackers, officials said.
政府和医疗官员表示，至少有145人已经遇难，其中逾100人为儿童。死亡人数中包括了九名袭击者。
The siege started Tuesday morning around 10 a.m. when at least five to six heavily armed Taliban gunmen entered Army Public School and Degree College in Peshawar, the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province. According to initial reports, the gunmen opened fire on students and have taken dozens of them as hostages. Some students managed to escape the school compound, the local news media reported.
袭击始于周二早晨10点左右，至少五到六名持重型枪械的塔利班枪手闯进了位于开伯尔-普赫图赫瓦省首府白沙瓦的陆军公立学院(Army Public School and Degree College)。据先前报道，枪手向学生们开火并将数十名学生劫为人质。据当地媒体报道，一些学生设法逃出了校园。
The gunmen entered the school after scaling a wall at the rear of the main school building. They opened fire and took dozens of students hostage in the main auditorium of the building, the news media reported.
据报道，枪手们在翻过了学校一栋大楼后的一堵围墙进入学校。随后开枪射击，并将数十名学生劫为人质，将其控制在大楼内的大礼堂中。
Local television news networks broadcast images of panic-stricken students, wearing the school uniform of green sweaters and blazers, being evacuated from the school compound. The wounded have been taken to Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar, where a state of emergency has been declared.
当地媒体播放的画面中出现了一些惊恐万分的学生，他们穿着绿色毛衣和夹克的校服，正在被从校园里撤退出去。伤者已被送往白沙瓦的雷丁女士医院(Lady Reading Hospital)，目前当地已宣布进入紧急状态。
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has left the capital, Islamabad, for Peshawar, state-run news media reported, saying he would personally supervise the operation against the militants.
国营媒体报道，巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)已经离开首都伊斯兰堡前往白沙瓦，并将亲自坐镇指导对武装分子的行动。
A spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack and said it was in retaliation to the military’s offensive against militant hideouts in the North Waziristan tribal region. Pakistani military carried out an offensive, “Operation Zab-e-Azb,” in June and have claimed to have cleared 90 percent of the restive region that has long been a redoubt of local and foreign militants.
一名巴基斯坦塔利班发言人已经声称对袭击负责，并表示此举是为了报复军方在北部瓦济里斯坦部落地区对武装分子藏身处发起的攻势。巴基斯坦军队6月发动了代号为“利剑行动”(Operation Zarb-e-Azb)的攻击，并表示已经清理了逾90%的不稳定地区，这些地方长期以来已经成为当地和外国武装分子的堡垒。