WASHINGTON — Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl has told medical officials that his captors locked him in a metal cage in total darkness for weeks at a time as punishment for trying to escape, and while military doctors say he now is physically able to travel he is not yet emotionally ready for the pressures of reuniting with his family, according to American officials who have been briefed on his condition.
华盛顿——据知道鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)情况的美国官员说，贝里达尔告诉医疗官员，作为对他试图逃跑的惩罚，关押他的人曾把他锁在完全黑暗的金属笼子里达数周之久，军医称，贝里达尔现在的身体状况可以旅行，但他心理准备还不够应对与家人重聚的压力。
Sergeant Bergdahl, who was released last Saturday to American commandos in Afghanistan in exchange for five Taliban detainees held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, remains in a military hospital in Germany without access to news media — and thus is oblivious to the raging criticism from some in Congress about the prisoner swap and even from members of his former platoon who say he deserted them. He has received a letter from his sister but has not yet responded, and objects when hospital staff address him as sergeant instead of private first class, his rank when he was captured nearly five years ago after walking off a remote outpost in eastern Afghanistan, the official said.
上周六，作为被关押在古巴关塔那摩湾(Guantánamo Bay)的5名塔利班(Taliban)人员的交换对象，贝里达尔被释放给美国驻阿富汗特种部队，他现在位于德国的美军医院，处于与新闻媒体隔绝的状态，因此他对外界的猛烈抨击一无所知，批评的声音中包括国会的一些人对战俘交换的指责，有的甚至来自他以前所在排的战友，他们说他是逃兵。官员说，他已经收到了姐姐的来信，但还没有回复，他曾拒绝医院的员工称他为中士，而不是一等兵，那是他将近5年前被俘时的军衔，他当时从位于阿富汗东部一处偏远哨岗出走后被俘。
While medical officials are pressing him for details about his time in captivity to help begin repairing his medical and psychological wounds, these specialists have not yet focused on the critical questions about why he left his outpost and how he was captured by insurgents, the officials said — and there is no predetermined schedule for doing so.
官员称，虽然医护人员一直在询问他被关押期间的细节，以帮助他开始修恢身体和精神上受的伤，但这些医学专家没有把重点放在一些关键问题上，比如他当初为什么离开哨岗，他是如何被当地的武装分子抓获的，而且目前还没问这些问题的时间表。
“Physically, he could be put on a plane to the U.S. tomorrow, but there are still a couple of mental criteria to address: the family unification piece and the media exposure piece,” said one American official who has been briefed on the sergeant’s condition.
一位听取了这位中士情况的美国官员说，“从身体上来说，他明天就可以坐飞机回美国，但仍有两个心理条件需要准备：一个是应对家庭重聚的问题，另一个接触媒体的问题。”
From the initial briefings given to senior military and civilian officials in the past week, Sergeant Bergdahl, 28, in some ways seems healthier than expected. He suffers from skin and gum disorders typical of poor hygiene and exposure, but otherwise is physically sound, one official said. He weighs about 160 pounds on a 5-foot-9 frame, and is sleeping about seven hours a night.
从上周通报给军队和政府高级官员的有关贝里达尔的最初情况来看，这位现年28岁的中士的健康情况从某种程度来看比预期的要好。一名官员说，他患有一些皮肤和牙龈疾病，这主要是由于卫生条件差及长久住在野外所致，除此之外，他的身体还可以。他体重约73公斤，这对他1.75米的身高来说算正常，他现在每晚大约睡7小时。
He shows few if any signs of the malnourishment and other ailments that Obama administration officials said he was suffering when they saw a video of him that the Taliban made in December and released a month later — a video so alarming, American officials have said, it made his release an urgent priority. 
他基本上并没有营养不良和其他疾病的症状，奥巴马政府官员在看了塔利班录制的有关他的视频后曾表示，他表现出那些症状，视频是塔利班在去年12月录制的，发布是在录制的一个月后，美国官员说 ，那段视频非常令人担忧，以致于让贝里达尔获得释放成为一个当务之急。
But Sergeant Bergdahl’s relatively stable health may be cited by those who object to the prisoner swap and have said his condition should not have been grounds for the administration to move rapidly ahead with releasing the Guantánamo detainees without informing Congress. 
然而，贝里达尔相对较稳定的身体状况可能会被那些反对交换战俘的人引为理由，这些人曾说他的状况不应该成为政府在不通知国会的情况下，迅速采取行动释放关押在关塔那摩的人的根据。
Two American officials, including one senior Defense Department official, who have been briefed on the reports spoke Saturday on the condition of anonymity because of restrictions on the public release of information about Sergeant Bergdahl’s health and an impending investigation into any possible misconduct surrounding the circumstance of his leaving the outpost.
两名听取了情况汇报的美国官员(其中一位是国防部的高级官员)周六透露了这些消息，这两名官员均要求匿名，因为有关贝里达尔健康情况的信息还不能公开，也因为即将展开对他当时离开哨岗的情况是否存在不端的调查。
Late Saturday, the F.B.I. said the Bergdahl family in Idaho had received threats. Federal agents, working with state and local law enforcement authorities, were “taking each threat seriously,” an F.B.I. statement said. Officials declined to give other details.
周六晚些时候，美国联邦调查局(FBI)称，住在爱达荷州的贝里达尔家人已经收到威胁的信息。FBI在一份声明中说，联邦特工以及与之合作的国家和地方当局正在“严肃对待每一个威胁”。官员拒绝提供任何其他详细信息。
This week, the doctors have been treating Sergeant Bergdahl for possible abuse at the hands of his captors, first the Taliban and later the Haqqani network, a Taliban-aligned militant group that held him at one or more locations in the mountainous tribal areas of neighboring Pakistan, American intelligence officials have said.
上周，医生曾针对贝里达尔可能在被俘期间遭到虐待进行治疗，美国情报官员曾表示，贝里达尔先是被塔利班关押，后来又被哈卡尼网络(Haqqani network，简称哈卡尼)囚禁在与巴基斯坦接壤的山区部落地区的一个或几个不同地点，哈卡尼是一个与塔利班结盟的武装组织。
“He’s said that they kept him in a shark cage in total darkness for weeks, possibly months,” said one American official. CNN reported Friday that Sergeant Bergdahl said he was held in a metal box or cage, but the officials on Saturday offered new details. He was kept there apparently as punishment for one or possibly two attempted escapes, as first reported by the Daily Beast website last week and confirmed by an American official.
一名美国官员说，“他说，他们把他锁在一个黑暗的金属笼子里长达数周，甚至可能是几个月。”CNN周五曾报道，贝里达尔说他被关在一个金属盒子或笼子里，但周六官方提供了新的细节。他被关在笼子里看来是对他曾一次或两次试图逃跑的惩罚，正如《每日野兽》(The Daily Beast)网站上周最先报道的那样，一名美国官员已证实了这个说法。
“It’s safe to assume” that Sergeant Bergdahl was “held in harsh conditions,” a senior Defense Department official said Saturday. “These are Taliban, not wet nurses.” Details of other mistreatment were not released.
国防部一名高级官员周六说，“可以安全地假设关押”贝里达尔“的条件极为恶劣。那些人是塔利班，不是奶妈。”有关其他虐待的细节还没有公布。
When the medical specialists deem Sergeant Bergdahl ready, his next step will be longer-term therapy and counseling at a military medical center in San Antonio before a carefully managed homecoming in Hailey, Idaho. At some point, he will speak by phone with his family, and be reunited with them.
如果医学专家认为贝里达尔准备好了的话，他下一步将是在德克萨斯州圣安东尼奥的一个军事医疗中心接受一段更长时间的治疗和心理咨询，然后才会仔细地安排他回到位于爱达荷黑利的老家。在某个时刻，他将与家人通电话，并和他们重聚。
Officials would not disclose if Sergeant Bergdahl has made any special requests. One thing, however, that does rub him wrong is when hospital staff call him “sergeant,” the result of two automatic promotions while a captive.
官员们没有透露贝里达尔是否提出过任何特殊要求。但是有一件事令他不快，那就是当医院员工称他为“中士”时，他升为中士是他被俘其间的两次自动提级的结果。