Two were senior Taliban commanders said to be implicated in murdering thousands of Shiites in Afghanistan. When asked about the alleged war crimes by an interrogator, they “did not express any regret and stated they did what they needed to do in their struggle to establish their ideal state,” according to their interrogators.
其中两人是塔利班高级指挥官，据说在阿富汗参与杀害了数以千计的什叶派穆斯林。在审问中被问及他们涉嫌的战争罪行时，他们“没有表现出任何遗憾，并说他们为了建立心目中的理想世界，做了他们需要做的事情。”他们的审讯官说。
There is also a former deputy director of Taliban intelligence, a former senior Taliban official said to have “strong operational ties” to various extremist militias, and a former Taliban minister accused of having sought help from Iran in attacking American forces.
还有一个是塔利班情报部门的前副指挥，一个据说跟各种极端主义民兵组织“在行动层面”拥有“牢固关系”的塔利班前高级官员，以及一名塔利班前部长，据说曾在攻击美国军队时向伊朗求助。
These five prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, could be the key to whether the negotiations the United States has long sought with the Taliban are a success, or even take place. A Taliban spokesman in Qatar said Thursday that exchanging them for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, an American prisoner of war who has been held by militants since 2009, would be a way to “build bridges of confidence” to start broader peace talks.
长期以来，美国一直在寻求与塔利班谈判，谈判能否成功，甚至能否进行，关键可能就在这五名关押在古巴关塔那摩湾的囚犯身上。位于卡塔尔的一名塔利班发言人周四表示，用这五名囚犯来交换鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)，可能有助于“建立信任的桥梁”，从而开启更广泛的和平谈判。鲍·贝里达尔是武装分子自2009年起关押的一名美国战俘。
Less than a month ago, President Obama gave a speech reiterating his desire to close Guantánamo. But one official familiar with internal deliberations emphasized that any exchange involving the Afghan prisoners should not be seen as part of efforts the president has ordered to winnow the prison of low-level detainees.
不到一个月之前，奥巴马总统发表讲话，重申了他希望关闭关塔那摩监狱的立场。但一名了解内部讨论的官员强调，总统已经下令筛选低级别囚徒，让他们离开这所监狱，而任何涉及阿富汗囚犯的交换，都不应该被视为这一工作的组成部分。
The five Taliban members are considered to be among the most senior militants at Guantánamo and would otherwise be among the last in line to leave.
这五名塔利班成员，被认为是关塔那摩监狱关押的级别最高的武装分子，本来会被列入最后离开该监狱的囚犯名单。
The Taliban offer, which was made at the same time they were opening a long-delayed office in Doha, Qatar, breathed new life into a proposal floated in late 2011 that collapsed amid Congressional skepticism and the strict security conditions the Obama administration sought as part of any exchange. They included the stipulation that the Taliban prisoners be sent to Qatar and forbidden to leave there.
塔利班曾在2011年年底提出过交换俘虏的建议，但由于国会持怀疑态度，奥巴马政府为所有战俘交换制定了严格的安全条件，比如塔利班囚犯会被送抵卡塔尔，并被禁止离开那里，所以此事不了了之； 现在塔利班在长期拖延之后，终于在卡塔尔首都多哈开设了办公室，同时旧事重提，为当初的提议导入了新的契机。
Those conditions, created by the Obama administration to comply with legal restrictions imposed by Congress to prevent any detainees from returning to the battlefield in Afghanistan, led the Taliban to walk away from the negotiations. It is not clear whether the Taliban position on transfers to Qatar, as opposed to outright release and repatriation, has softened.
奥巴马政府制定的这些条件符合国会施加的法律限制，其目的是防止被关押者重返阿富汗战场，这导致了塔利班中止谈判进程。目前尚不清楚，对于被关押者将滞留卡塔尔，而不是彻底释放和遣返这一条件，塔利班的立场是否已经已经软化。
Any prisoner release, according to officials familiar with the deliberations, is not imminent. The transfer restrictions require 30 days’ notice to lawmakers before any detainee leaves, and the administration has not yet given any notification. The officials would not comment on the record because of the diplomatic and political delicacy of the issue.
熟悉此事内情的官员表示，没有哪个囚徒会很快获释。因为转移条例规定，任何被关押者要离开监狱，都需要提前30天通知立法者，而政府至今尚未发出任何通知。由于这个问题在外交和政治方面的微妙性，这些官员不愿公开发表评论。
More is known about the five former Taliban members than other Guantánamo prisoners because the details of their alleged roles were described in government files given to WikiLeaks by Pfc. Bradley Manning, now being court-martialed and facing a possible life sentence if convicted. Because the five men have never been given a trial, the quality of the evidence and the credibility of the claims against them in the files have not been tested.
跟关塔那摩监狱的其他囚犯相比，这五名前塔利班成员的情况更加广为人知，这是因为一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)泄露给维基解密的政府档案中，包含了他们涉嫌的角色的一些细节。曼宁目前正在军事法庭受审，如果罪名成立，他可能会面临终身监禁。由于法庭从来没有审判过这五名囚犯，文件中指控他们罪行的证据在质量和可信度方面也就没有经受过测试。
Mohammad Nabi Omari is described in the files as “one of the most significant former Taliban leaders detained” at Guantánamo. He is said to have strong operational ties to anti-coalition militia groups including Al Qaeda, the Taliban and the Haqqani network. He is also accused of participating in a cell in Khost that was “involved in attacks against U.S. and coalition forces,” maintaining weapons caches and smuggling fighters and weapons.
文件中称，穆罕默德·纳比·奥马里(Mohammad Nabi Omari)是关押在关塔那摩监狱的“最重要的前塔利班领导人之一”。在行动层面，他跟包括“基地”组织、塔利班和哈卡尼网络在内的反联军武装团体之间存在紧密联系。而且他也被指控参加了阿富汗霍斯特省的一个恐怖团体，这个团体“曾袭击美国和联军部队”，管理武器藏匿点，安排武装分子进行偷渡，并走私武器。
A former Taliban provincial governor, Mullah Norullah Noori, is also “considered one of the most significant former Taliban officials” at the prison, according to the documents. A founding member of the organization, he was a senior military commander against United States forces and their allies in late 2001.
维基解密的文件显示，塔利班一位前省长毛拉努卢拉·努里(Mullah Norullah Noori)也被认为是该监狱中“最重要的前塔利班官员之一”。作为该组织的创始成员，他在2001年后期跟美国军队及其盟军作战时担任高级军事指挥官。
Both Mr. Noori and a third detainee being considered in an exchange, Mullah Mohammad Fazl, a former Taliban deputy defense minister, are accused of having commanded forces that killed thousands of Shiite Muslims, a minority in Afghanistan, before the Taliban were toppled in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
努里和第三名囚犯毛拉穆罕默德·法兹尔(Mullah Mohammad Fazl)都是美国正在考虑交换的俘虏。法兹尔是塔利班前副国防部长，在9·11恐怖袭击事件导致塔利班被推翻之前，他曾指挥军队杀害了数以千计的什叶派穆斯林。什叶派在阿富汗是一个少数教派。
The fourth is Abdul Haq Wasiq, a former top Taliban intelligence official described as “central to the Taliban’s efforts to form alliances with other Islamic fundamentalist groups to fight alongside the Taliban against U.S. and coalition forces after the 11 September 2001 attacks.” He also helped Qaeda and Taliban fighters evade capture and arranged for Al Qaeda to train Taliban intelligence methods, according to the WikiLeaks documents.
第四名囚犯是塔利班前高级情报官员阿卜杜勒·哈克·瓦希克(Abdul Haq Wasiq)，维基解密的文件中说，“2001年9月11日恐怖袭击后，塔利班试图与其他伊斯兰原教旨主义团体结盟，争取他们跟塔利班并肩打击美国和联军部队，瓦希克就是结盟活动的核心人物。”文件还称他帮助“基地”组织和塔利班战士躲避追捕，安排“基地”组织对塔利班情报部门进行培训。
The fifth prisoner, Khirullah Said Wali Khairkhwa, a former minister of the interior and provincial governor, has contended that he had direct ties to Osama bin Laden and represented the Taliban in talks with Iranian officials seeking their support after Sept. 11, according to the documents.
第五名囚犯克努拉·萨义德·瓦里·卡尔克瓦 (Khirullah Said Wali Khairkhwa)曾任内务部长和省长，文件显示，他跟乌萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)有直接往来，并在9·11事件后代表塔利班出席跟伊朗官员的会谈，试图寻求他们的支持。
He is also accused of using his position to “become one of the major opium drug lords in Western Afghanistan.” Described as “extremely intelligent,” Mr. Khairkhwa is said to have claimed to be motivated by public service rather than ideology and pledged to support President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, who has called for his release.
他还被指控利用职务之便，“成为了阿富汗西部的最大的鸦片毒枭之一”。文件形容卡尔克瓦“聪明绝顶”，说他曾表示，驱使他行动的是为公众服务的信念，而不是意识形态，他还承诺说，他会支持呼吁释放他的阿富汗总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)。
The five Taliban leaders are just a subset of 18 Afghans remaining at Guantánamo — out of the 220 taken there by the Bush administration. But the other 13 are accused of far less serious and specific actions, meaning that they are not important enough to be bargaining chips.
这五名塔利班领导人只是仍然关押在关塔那摩的18名阿富汗人中的一小部分—— 布什政府曾将220个阿富汗人投入该监狱。但是其他13人被指控的罪行轻微得多，也笼统的多，这意味着他们的分量还不足以成为谈判筹码。
With American troops still on the ground in Afghanistan, both Obama administration and Congressional officials say there is genuine concern about releasing high-level leaders if there is any prospect that they could return to rally new attacks.
现在美国还没有从阿富汗撤军，奥巴马政府和国会官员都表示，释放这样的塔利班高层领导者确实令一些人感到担心，因为他们可能会回国发动新的攻击。