The Taliban signaled a breakthrough in efforts to start Afghan peace negotiations Tuesday, announcing the opening of a political office in Qatar and new readiness to talk with U.S. and Afghan officials, who said in turn that they would travel to meet insurgent negotiators there within days.
周二，塔利班(Taliban)发出的信号表明启动阿富汗和平谈判的努力取得了突破性进展。塔利班宣布在卡塔尔开设一间政治办公室，并准备好与美国和阿富汗官员进行谈判，后者随后表示，将在几天内前往该地会见叛军的谈判代表。
If the talks begin, they would be a significant step in peace efforts that have been locked in an impasse for nearly 18 months, after the Taliban walked out and accused the United States of negotiating in bad faith. U.S. officials have long pushed for such talks, believing them crucial to stabilizing Afghanistan after the 2014 Western military withdrawal.
如果谈判开始，那就是已停滞将近18个月的和平努力的重要进步。自塔利班退出谈判并指责美国背信弃义之后，这样的努力陷入了僵局。美国官员一直在推动这样的谈判，相信这对于2014年西方国家撤军后稳定阿富汗的局势至关重要。
The Taliban may have other goals in moving ahead, however. Their language made clear that they sought to be dealt with as a legitimate political force with a long-term role to play beyond the insurgency. In that sense, in addition to aiding in talks, the actual opening of their office in Qatar — nearly a year and a halfafter initial plans to open it were announced and then soon after suspended — could be seen as a signal that the Taliban's ultimate aim is recognition as an alternative to the Western-backed government of President Hamid Karzai.
然而，塔利班推进谈判的举动或许拥有其他目的。他们的措辞表明，他们想要被视为一支合法的政治力量，超越叛军角色来发挥长期的作用。从这个角度来看，除了有助于谈判之外，他们在卡塔尔的办公室的实际开设或许可以被视为一个信号，表明塔利班的最终目的是得到承认，成为西方支持的哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)政府的一个替代者。开设该办公室的计划在一年半之前就已宣布，但在宣布后不久就被搁置。
By agreeing to negotiations, the Taliban can “come out in the open, engage the rest of the region as legitimate actors, and it will be very difficult to prevent that when we recognize the office and are talking to the office,” said Vali Nasr, a former State Department official who is the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
前美国国务院官员、约翰斯·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)院长瓦利·纳斯尔(Vali Nasr)说，通过同意参加谈判，塔利班就能“公开站出来，作为合法组织参与地区其他事务，等我们承认这个办公室并与之对话之后，这样的形势将很难阻止。”
The United States, already heading toward its military exit, has little to offer beyond prisoner exchanges, and the Taliban are “not trying to help our strategy,” Nasr warned. “They're basically trying to put in place their own strategy.”
美国正在进行撤军，除了囚犯交换之外提供不了什么条件，而塔利班也“不想帮助实现我们的战略”，纳斯尔如是警告。“他们基本上是在尝试实现他们自己的战略。”
The Taliban overture coincided with an important symbolic moment in the U.S. withdrawal: the formal announcement Tuesday of a complete security handover from U.S. troops to Afghan forces across the country. That shift has already become obvious in recent months as the Afghan forces have tangibly taken the lead — and as the Taliban have responded by increasing the tempo of attacks against them.
塔利班的姿态与美国撤军的重要标志性时刻相一致：根据周二的正式声明，阿富汗全境的国家安全将由美军完全转交给阿富汗军队负责。这一转变在最近几个月来变得很明显，阿富汗部队已经显然占据了主导地位，而塔利班也通过加快袭击频率的方式作出了回应。
Yet since at least 2009, even top U.S. generals maintained that a permanent peace could not be won on the battlefield, and U.S. diplomats have engaged in nearly three years of secret meetings and working through diplomatic back channels to lay the groundwork for talks to begin.
然而，至少从2009年起，即便是美国高级将领也已坚信，持久的和平不可能在战场上赢得。美国外交官已经进行了近三年的秘密会晤，通过外交渠道为启动会谈铺平道路。
The opening for Tuesday's developments appeared to come in the third week of May, when the Qataris told the United States that the Taliban might be ready to start talking again, according to a U.S. official with knowledge of the talks.
一名熟悉相关谈判的美国官员称，周二的进展似乎始于5月的第三周，当时卡塔尔方面告诉美国，塔利班或许已经准备好重启谈判。
To that point, diplomats and intermediaries from Germany, Norway and Britain also played crucial roles, administration officials said Tuesday, and some said they believed Pakistan had played a more active role in recent months to urge the exiled Taliban leadership to move toward talks.
官方在周二说，在这点上，德国、挪威和英国的外交官及中间人也发挥了重要作用。还有一些人表示，他们认为巴基斯坦在最近几个月也发挥了更为积极的作用，敦促流亡的塔利班领导人努力重启会谈。
President Barack Obama called the Taliban's announcement “an important first step toward reconciliation” but cautioned that it was only “a very early step.”
奥巴马总统称塔利班的宣告是“走向和解的重要的第一步”，但又警告说，这只是“最初的一步”。
“We anticipate there will be a lot of bumps in the road,” Obama said at a meeting with President François Hollande of France at the Group of Eight summit meeting in Northern Ireland.
“我们预计前路并不平坦，”奥巴马在北爱尔兰的八国集团(Group of Eight)峰会上会见法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)时说。
There have been plenty of bumps already. Over the past 18 months, the peace effort has encountered pressure from nearly every quarter at one time or another: Karzai, the exiled Taliban leadership, the Taliban's patrons in Pakistan and critics in the United States who have reacted coolly to what they perceive as talking to terrorists.
通往会谈的道路上已经出现过很多障碍。在过去18个月中，和平努力不时遭遇几乎来自四面八方的压力：卡尔扎伊，被驱逐的塔利班领导人、塔利班的巴基斯坦庇护人和美国国内的批评者，后者对他们所认为的和恐怖分子对话反应冷谈。
Along with getting the Taliban to disown international terrorist groups, the ultimate goal of the talks, from a Western and Afghan government point of view, is to persuade the Taliban to disarm and to accept the Afghan Constitution.
除了让塔利班和国际恐怖组织脱离关系之外，从西方和阿富汗政府的观点来看，对话的终极目标是劝服塔利班解除武装并接受阿富汗宪法。
While Western officials have in the past suggested that the constitution can be changed, the Obama administration stressed Tuesday that accepting the current charter's “protections for women and minorities” was considered a condition of any eventual peace deal.
尽管西方官员过去曾提议修改宪法，但奥巴马政府周二强调，接受当前宪章当中“对妇女和少数族裔的保护”是达成最终和平协议的必要条件。
In the shorter term, U.S. officials said that envoys were to meet this week with Taliban representatives in Qatar, and then members of Afghanistan's High Peace Council, which is to represent the government in talks, were to travel to the Persian Gulf emirate to sit down with the insurgents.
美国官方称，从短期来看，特使将于本周在卡塔尔会见塔利班代表，接下来，代表政府的阿富汗高级和平委员会(High Peace Council)成员将前往这个波斯湾酋长国和叛乱分子对话。
The first meetings will probably feature little more than an exchange of agendas, another senior administration official said, cautioning against expectations that the talks might yield substantive results anytime soon.
另一名高级政府官员称，最初的几次会议多半只限于交流议程，这名官员还警告，不要期待会谈能在短期内得到实质性成果。
“There is no guarantee that this will happen quickly, if at all,” the official said.
“即便会有进展，也没人能保证它会迅速到来，”这名官员称。
Talks between the United States and the Taliban “can help advance the process, but the core of it is going to be negotiations among Afghans, and the level of trust on both sides is extremely low, as one would expect,” the official said. “So it is going to be a long, hard process if indeed it advances significantly at all.”
美国和塔利班之间的对话“有助于推动这一进程，但谈话的核心将是阿富汗人之间的协商，可想而知，双方之间的信任度非常低，”这名官员说。“因此，即便真的能取得显著的进展，也将是一个长期而艰难的过程。”
Karzai signaled his acceptance of the office's opening at a ceremony Tuesday celebrating the transfer of all security responsibilities across Afghanistan to Afghan forces. He made it clear, however, that he wanted any talks moved to Afghanistan as soon as possible, and his support for the process getting under way in Qatar seemed tepid.
卡尔扎伊在周二的一个典礼上示意自己接受塔利班政治办公室的设立，该典礼是为了庆祝阿富汗安全责任完全转交阿富汗部队。但他明确表示，他希望谈话能尽快转入阿富汗境内，此外，他对卡塔尔会谈进程的支持也显得不够强烈。
“The reason we are worried is the hands of the outsiders,” he said, focusing his comments on his government's concerns. “We will go forward cautiously.”
“我们之所以担心，是因为有外人插手，”他重点谈及了阿富汗政府的担忧。“我们将谨慎前行。”