FREETOWN, Sierra Leone A second leading Sierra Leone doctor has succumbed to the Ebola epidemic sweeping across West Africa, dealing another blow to the country’s faltering efforts to stem the disease.
塞拉利昂弗里敦——埃博拉疫情正在席卷整个西非，塞拉利昂第二位著名医生的病逝，令该国控制疫情的艰难进程雪上加霜。
Dr. Modupeh Cole, 56, died Wednesday at the Ebola treatment center operated by Doctors Without Borders in the northeastern town of Kailahun, officials at the health ministry said.
本周三，在塞拉利昂东北城镇凯拉洪，56岁的默多非·科尔(Modupeh Cole)医生在无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)的一家埃博拉病毒治疗中心去世，该国卫生部官员表示。
He had apparently been infected while seeing a patient at the country’s leading hospital, Connaught Hospital, here in the capital, officials said. The patient later tested positive for Ebola.
他可能是在该国顶级医院、位于首都的康诺特医院(Connaught Hospital)诊治一位病人时遭受了感染，官员们说。这名病人后来的埃博拉病毒检测结果呈阳性。
The loss of Dr. Cole was described as significant by health officials in a country with a severe shortage of well-trained doctors, especially coming two weeks after the death of Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan, the virologist who was leading the fight against the disease in eastern Sierra Leone, where it has flourished.
塞拉利昂卫生部官员称科尔博士的过世是一个重大损失，该国严重缺乏训练有素的医生，尤其是两周之前谢赫·奥马尔·汗(Sheik Humarr Khan)医生才刚刚过世；汗是病毒学家，当时正在疫情肆虐的塞拉利昂东部领导抗击它的斗争。
Dr. Cole “was a highly qualified physician, and we have very few of them on hand,” said Dr. Amara Jambai, director of prevention and control at the health ministry. “You can imagine what this does to the younger cohort. It’s like having a general falling in battle. It just brings more misery. It’s not good. When you have a health system that’s constrained, it’s a bit too much.”
科尔医生“是一位能力极强的内科医师，目前在我们这里这样的人少之又少，”卫生部防控主任阿玛拉·杰拜(Amara Jambai)博士说。“你可以想象一下这件事给年轻医生的队伍带来了怎样的影响，就好比一位将军阵亡了，只会令人更增痛苦。这是个打击。当你的卫生系统条件有限时，这个打击就实在太大了。”
Connaught, where Dr. Cole worked, is Sierra Leone’s leading referral hospital, so Ebola patients inevitably go there, initially at least. But it does not have a treatment center for them or an isolation ward.
科尔博士工作的康诺特医院，是塞拉利昂顶尖的转诊医院，所以埃博拉患者难免会去那里，至少在开始阶段是这样。但它没有埃博拉患者治疗中心，没有隔离病房。
It was one such patient who apparently passed the deadly disease to the doctor. “He was trying to see a patient, and the patient was falling,” Dr. Jambai said. “The patient was trying to help himself to the couch, and the patient fell.” The patient was positive for Ebola, he added.
一个埃博拉患者似乎把这种致命疾病传染给了科尔博士。“他当时想看一个病人，那个病人就要倒在地上，”杰拜说。“病人试图坐到沙发上，但却跌倒了。”该病人的埃博拉检测结果呈阳性，他说。
Dr. Cole trained in the Soviet Union in the 1980s before returning to Sierra Leone in 1987, Dr. Jambai said.
科尔博士上世纪80年代在苏联学习，1987年返回塞拉利昂，杰拜说。
The disease continues to spread, with the World Health Organization reporting 1,013 deaths across four countries — Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone — as of Saturday. Sierra Leone reported the most confirmed and probable cases, 730, and the third-highest death toll, 315. Health workers suspect that this figure may be far too low, given the number of confirmed Ebola cases in the country, 656.
疫情在继续蔓延，截至上周六，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的数据显示，在几内亚、利比里亚、尼日利亚和塞拉利昂这四个国家，它一共夺去了1013人的生命。塞拉利昂报告的确诊和疑似病例最多，为730例，死亡人数为315人，排在第三位。卫生工作者认为这个数字可能太低，因为该国的确诊人数已是656人。
On Tuesday, some of the rare experimental Ebola drug known as ZMapp arrived in Liberia. The minister of foreign affairs, Augustine Ngafuan, transported three courses of the drug himself on a commercial flight from the United States. The Liberian government had announced that two courses would be administered to two doctors from John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Monrovia, the Liberian capital.
本周二，一些罕见的埃博拉实验性药物ZMapp被运抵利比里亚。该国外交部长奥古斯丁·加凡(Augustine Ngafuan)乘坐商业航班回国，亲自从美国带回了三个疗程的ZMapp。利比里亚政府宣布，将把两个疗程的药物提供给位于首都蒙罗维亚的约翰·F·肯尼迪医疗中心(John F. Kennedy Medical Center)的两名医生。
But Dr. Moses Massaquoi, a health ministry official, said in a telephone interview that “things have changed,” adding that the medication would be administered to health workers, among them a doctor and a nurse, without specifying. Health officials also emphasized that the very limited courses of the medication, which is unproven and virtually untested, were not a panacea.
但卫生部官员摩西·马萨科伊(Moses Massaquoi)博士在接受电话采访时说“情况有变化”，称这些药物会被提供给医护人员，其中包括一名医生和一名护士，但马萨科伊没谈到具体细节。卫生官员们还强调，区区几个疗程不是万能的，而且这种药物既没有经过验证，也几乎没有做过测试。
“For me this is not the answer; it’s just a matter of trial,” said Tolbert Nyenswah, the assistant minister of health. “We need to continue mechanisms to break transmission so that we can eradicate this disease.”
“在我看来，这不是答案，只是一个试验，”卫生部助理部长托尔伯特·耶斯瓦(Tolbert Nyenswah)说。“我们需要继续打破它的传染机制，以便根除这种疾病。”
A third death in Nigeria was reported by the Economic Community of West African States, a regional bloc, which said Tuesday that Jatto Asihu Abdulqudir, a staff member in Lagos, had succumbed to the disease. Mr. Abdulqudir was among those who assisted an infected Liberian-American who had arrived by plane for a conference in July. The passenger, Patrick Sawyer, died on July 25, and a nurse who treated him died shortly after.
尼日利亚的第三个死亡病例是由地区组织西非国家经济共同体(Economic Community of West African States)汇报的。该组织本周二表示，它在拉各斯的一名工作人员加托·阿斯胡·阿杜奎尔(Jatto Asihu Abdulqudir)因感染埃博拉病毒身亡。今年7月，一个感染了这种病毒的利比里亚裔美国人乘飞机前来参加会议，阿杜奎尔和其他一些人为他提供了帮助。这名乘客名叫帕特里克·索耶(Patrick Sawyer)，于7月25日死亡，照料过他的一名护士也在不久后病故。