On a visit to Athens this year, Marios Loucaides, a Cypriot businessman, saw an apartment he liked in the heart of the Greek capital and decided to buy it. He told the owner he would seal the deal with a bank transfer — the price was 170,000 euros, about $220,000 — once he got back to Cyprus.
今年去雅典时，塞浦路斯商人马里奥斯·卢卡迪斯(Marios Loucaides)在希腊首都的市中心看中了一处公寓，并决定买下来。那套公寓的价格是17万欧元（约合133万元人民币），他告诉屋主，自己一回到塞浦路斯便会通过银行转账的方式完成交易。
After returning home, however, Mr. Loucaides discovered that the euros he had on deposit here in Nicosia, the capital, could not be moved to Greece, even though the two countries share the same currency and, in theory at least, the same commitment to the free movement of capital.
然而，回国后，卢卡迪斯发现，他存在首都尼科西亚的欧元无法转账到希腊，尽管这两个国家使用同一种货币，而且至少在理论上都同样鼓励资本的自由流动。
The apartment deal collapsed. And so, too, did Mr. Loucaides’s belief that Europe has a common currency. Tangled in restrictions imposed in March as part of a bailout for the country’s ailing banks, a euro in Cyprus is no longer the same as one in France, Germany or Greece.
购买公寓的交易泡汤了。同样，卢卡迪斯认为欧洲拥有统一货币的信念也崩溃了。3月，塞浦路斯实施了一些限制措施，这是对塞浦路斯境况不佳的银行进行救援的部分内容，受制于这些限制，塞浦路斯的1欧元不再等同于法国、德国或希腊的1欧元。
“A Cyprus euro is a second-class euro,” said Mr. Loucaides, the managing director of the Cyprus Trading Corporation.
“塞浦路斯的欧元是二等欧元，”身为塞浦路斯贸易公司(Cyprus Trading Corporation)执行董事的卢卡迪斯说。
Capital controls, once a tool used frequently by governments in times of crisis, have become extremely rare in Europe, though they are not unknown. Iceland, which is not a member of the European Union and uses its own currency, imposed them in 2008 after its three main banks imploded.
资本管制曾是政府在危机时期频繁使用的一种工具，但在欧洲，它们已经变得极其罕见了，不过也并非不为人知。冰岛不是欧盟的成员国，有自己的货币。2008年，在三家大银行崩溃后，冰岛实行了资本管制。
With a gross domestic product of about $23 billion and shrinking, Cyprus is little more than a rounding error in the $9.5 trillion euro zone economy. But Cyprus is also the first nation using the euro to restrict the flow of capital, raising a crucial question: Has the breakup of the euro zone — something European leaders have been struggling to prevent for three years with frantic summit meetings in Brussels and a series of bailout packages worth hundreds of billions of euros — in fact already started?
在总量为9.5万亿美元的欧元区经济中，国内生产总值约为230亿美元（约合1410亿元人民币）且正在不断缩水的塞浦路斯，只相当于四舍五入时的一个零头。但塞浦路斯也是首个限制资本流动的欧元国家，这引出了一个关键问题：欧元区的解体实际上已经开始了吗？三年来，欧洲领导人一直试图通过在布鲁塞尔召开紧张纷乱的峰会、实行价值数千亿欧元的救助方案，避免欧元区解体。
President Nicos Anastasiades of Cyprus certainly thinks so. “Actually, we are already out of the euro zone,” he said, citing restrictions on the movement of euros from Cyprus as evidence that his country’s money now has a different status and value from that in France, Germany and the 14 other European Union nations that use the currency.
塞浦路斯总统尼科斯·阿纳斯塔夏季斯(Nicos Anastasiades)肯定会这么认为。“事实上，我们已经退出欧元区了，”他说。他用欧元在离开塞浦路斯时受到的限制，证明他现在领导的国家的货币，在地位和价值上有别于法国、德国以及其他14个使用欧元的欧盟国家的货币。
“It is a peculiar situation,” Mr. Anastasiades said in an interview.
“这是一种奇怪的情况，”阿纳斯塔夏季斯在一次采访中说。
The rules of the European Union, enshrined in the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, ban restrictions on the movement of capital, but the measures by Cyprus have been endorsed by the European Central Bank and the union’s executive arm, the European Commission, as essential to prevent money from fleeing the country. While the European Central Bank declined to comment on the Cyprus situation, officials in Brussels say they remain firmly committed to maintaining the euro as a single currency.
根据1992年的《马斯特里赫特条约》(Maastricht Treaty)，欧盟的规则禁止对资本自由流动作出限制，但塞浦路斯采取的措施却被欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)以及欧盟的执行机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)称作是防止资金逃离该国的必要措施。尽管欧洲央行拒绝对塞浦路斯的情况置评，但布鲁塞尔的官员说，他们维持欧元的单一货币地位的决心仍然坚定。
Nevertheless, many financial experts say Cyprus has, in effect, made a “silent, hidden exit” from the euro, said Guntram B. Wolff, the director of Bruegel, a Brussels research group. Despite a softening of restrictions, he added, “the euro in Cyprus is still not the same as a euro in Frankfurt.”
然而，布鲁塞尔研究机构布勒哲尔国际经济研究所(Bruegel)负责人冈特拉姆·B·沃尔夫(Guntram B. Wolff)表示，许多金融专家说，塞浦路斯实际上已经“悄悄地、偷偷地”退出了欧元区。他补充说，尽管限制措施正在软化，“但塞浦路斯的欧元依然不同于法兰克福的欧元”。
The rigid capital controls introduced in March have been steadily relaxed, but they still snarl businesses and ordinary Cypriots in a web of red tape.
严格的资本管制措施是3月实行的，虽然它们已被稳步放松，但一系列繁琐的限制措施依然影响着企业和普通塞浦路斯人。
Within certain, and constantly changing, limits, individuals and companies can now make transfers abroad and between banks in Cyprus, operations that were initially prohibited. However, they need to present invoices and other documents to justify moving their money. Transfers over 500,000 euros, about $640,000, by a company — and 300,000 euros, about $380,000, by an individual — require the central bank’s approval.
虽然有一些特定的，且在不停变化的限制，但个人和企业现在可以向国外转账，也可以在塞浦路斯国内银行间转账，最初，这些操作是禁止的。然而，他们需要出具发票和其他文件，以证明他们转移资金是有正当理由的。公司转账金额超过50万欧元，或个人转账金额超过30万欧元的，均需获得央行的批准。
It is still forbidden to cash checks or to open a new account unless a previous one existed at the same bank. Individuals can withdraw no more than 300 euros a day, while the limit for companies is currently set at 500 euros. Signs at airports warn passengers that it is illegal to carry more than 3,000 euros out of the country.
现在仍然禁止兑现支票，也禁止开设新账户，除非此前在同一家银行已有账户。个人每日取款上限为300欧元，目前企业取款上限设置为500欧元。机场展示的标识警告乘客，携带超过3000欧元以上资金出国是违法行为。
All these rules and the paperwork they create add to the cost of many transactions, effectively reducing the value of the euro in Cyprus compared with a freely movable euro in the rest of the euro zone.
他们树立的所有这些规则和手续，增加了许多交易的成本，与欧元区其他国家自由流动的欧元相比，这些措施实质上降低了塞浦路斯欧元的价值。
“Our euro looks like a euro and feels like a euro, but it is not really a euro,” said Alexandros Diogenous, the chief executive of Unicars, a company in Nicosia that imports cars made by the VW Group in Germany.
Unicars公司首席执行官亚历山德罗斯·第欧根诺斯(Alexandros Diogenous)说，“我们的欧元看起来像欧元，摸着像欧元，可它不是真正的欧元。”这家公司位于尼科西亚，进口德国大众集团(VW Group)生产的汽车。
A big problem with capital controls is that, once imposed, they tend to linger longer than anyone anticipates because fear builds up over what might happen once they are gone. The controls introduced in Iceland are still in place five years later. The Cypriot authorities initially said their controls would last just a week and then extended them to a month. They have now been in force for four months.
资本管制的一个大问题是，一旦实施管制，延续的时间可能会比任何人料想的都长，因为人们会开始恐惧一旦撤销管制会发生什么。冰岛实行的资本管制在五年后仍在执行。塞浦路斯官方最初表示，该国的管制只会实施一个星期，但后来延长到了一个月。而现在，管制措施已存在了四个月。
But while already partly out of the euro zone, Cyprus still does not enjoy the main advantage of having a wholly separate currency: the freedom to devalue. In the European Union, this is a prerogative held only by Britain, Sweden and other countries that kept their national currencies.
尽管已经部分脱离了欧元区，但塞浦路斯仍然无法享受完全独立货币的主要优势：贬值的自由。在欧盟当中，享有这项特权的只有英国、瑞典，以及其他仍然保留本国货币的国家。
Michael Kammas, director general of the Association of Cyprus Banks, an industry lobbying group, said his organization favored swiftly lifting all restrictions, which have created a deep wariness abroad of dealing with Cypriot banks and are hampering trade. A letter of credit issued by a bank in Cyprus, for example, is now rarely accepted abroad or even within Cyprus, forcing traders to pay for goods in cash.
行业游说团体塞浦路斯银行业协会(Association of Cyprus Banks)总监迈克尔·卡马斯(Michael Kammas)说，他的协会主张迅速解除所有限制，这些限制已经让需要和塞浦路斯银行打交道外国人深感不安，而且正在阻碍贸易。例如，塞浦路斯银行签发的信用证，在国外甚至在塞浦路斯国内，都极少被人接受。于是商家只好以现金购买商品。
But no one is eager to see the controls lifted too soon. Mr. Kammas cautioned against doing so until confidence returned to a banking system shattered by the March closing of Cyprus’s insolvent second-biggest bank, Laiki, the confiscation of money held by its big depositors and the freezing of all but a small portion of deposits over $130,000 at the Bank of Cyprus, the country’s biggest financial institution.
但没有人盼望着见到管制迅速解除。卡马斯警惕地说，要等银行业重新树立起信心后才能这样做。今年3月，塞浦路斯第二大银行大众银行(Laiki)因资不抵债而关闭。塞浦路斯最大的金融机构塞浦路斯银行(Bank of Cyprus)没收了大储户名下的资金，并冻结了绝大部分金额超过13万美元的存款。这对银行业的信用造成重创。
But removing restrictions in a country where nobody, not even bankers, trusts banks would probably lead to a flood of money out of the country and the collapse of the entire banking system, said Theodore Panayotou, an economist and the director of the Cyprus International Institute of Management.
但塞浦路斯国际管理学院(Cyprus International Institute of Management)院长，经济学家西奥多·帕纳约杜(Theodore Panayotou)表示，在这个没有人信任银行，甚至连银行从业者都不信任银行的国家，取消限制措施可能会引发资金外流，导致整个银行体系崩溃。
When the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund demanded that Cypriot bank depositors and investors holding bonds from these banks suffer losses as part of the bailout deal, they set a precedent that has since become a central element of Europe’s banking crisis strategy. At a meeting in Brussels last month, European Union finance ministers endorsed the “bail-in” as a necessary part of bailouts for banks in the future.
欧盟委员会和国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)要求，让塞浦路斯银行的储户，以及持有这些银行的债券的投资者承担损失，应当是实施救援的条件。这种做法已经成了欧洲银行危机应对策略中的核心元素。上个月在布鲁塞尔举行的一次会议上，欧盟国家的财政部长支持将“债权人自救”(bail-in)作为未来银行救援中的一个必要部分。
Mr. Panayotou says he believes that by detaching Cyprus from the rest of the euro zone, albeit in an informal way, European policy makers have taken the experiment one step further and are now testing what happens when the common currency is no longer really common. But officials in Brussels insist they have no such hidden agenda.
帕纳约杜表示，他认为欧洲政策制定者让塞浦路斯从欧元区脱离出来，尽管不是正式脱离，实际上让实验向前迈进了一步，现在正在测试如果统一货币不再真正统一，会发生什么。然而布鲁塞尔的官员坚称，他们没有这种秘而不宣的计划。