CAIRO — Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the former general who led the military takeover here nearly one year ago, was sworn in as president on Sunday, testing the bet that a new strongman can overcome the economic dysfunction and political polarization that bedeviled Egypt’s three-year experiment with open democracy.
开罗——周日，大约一年前领导军队接管政权的前将领阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)宣誓就任总统。塞西就任后，将会对这样一则预言加以检验：新的强人领袖能够克服经济停滞、政治分化的难题。在过去三年的民主实验中，埃及一直深受这些问题的困扰。
In an address to dozens of visiting heads of state gathered in the gilded presidential palace, Mr. Sisi pledged to work for security and stability in Egypt and the region.
在金光闪闪的总统府向数十位来访的国家首脑发表演讲时，塞西承诺将努力维护埃及与该地区的安全和稳定。
“It is time for our great people to reap the harvest of their two revolutions,” Mr. Sisi said, referring to the 2011 uprising that forced out President Hosni Mubarak and the 2013 protests that preceded the military takeover.
塞西表示，“让我们伟大的人民收获两场革命的果实的时候已经到了。”他指的是2011年迫使胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)下台的起义，以及2013年促使军队接管政权的抗议活动。
Mr. Sisi vowed to lead an “inclusive” national journey, “where each party listens to the other with impartiality, where we disagree for the sake of our homeland and not over it, where our differences are enriching and diversifying, and bestowing the spirit of cooperation and love on our shared patriotic labors.”
塞西发誓要带领这个国家开启一个“包容性”的旅程，“各个党派摒弃偏见，倾听彼此。我们为了国家利益而产生不同意见，仅此而已。我们的分歧让我们更加丰富、更加多元，也能让我们以合作、友爱的精神，投身共同的爱国事业。”
In a later televised speech at a second celebration, however, Mr. Sisi also pointedly ruled out any reconciliation with those who “committed crimes” or “adopted violence as a methodology” — charges understood here as a clear reference to any of the Islamist supporters of the deposed president, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood.
然而，塞西后来在第二场庆祝活动中发表电视讲话时，显然也排除了与“犯罪分子”或“将暴力当作一种方法论的人”达成和解的可能性。这些指控明显针对的是那些支持被罢黜的总统、穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领袖穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的伊斯兰派。
“There is no place for them in this march forward,” he added. “I say it loud and clear: no cooperation or appeasement for those who resort to violence and those who want to disrupt our movement to the future.”
“前进路上没有他们的位置，”他还表示，“我大声且明确地宣布：不会协助或姑息那些诉诸暴力的人，那些想要阻挠我们走向未来的人。”
And Mr. Sisi singled out for appreciation one foreign leader, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, Mr. Sisi’s chief international sponsor, whose government is donating several billion dollars to bankroll the military takeover and keep the lights on in Cairo.
塞西专门对一位外国领导人表达了感激，他就是沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)。阿卜杜拉是塞西的主要国际资助者，沙特政府捐赠了数十亿美元，资助军方接管政权，并保证开罗的电力供应。
Mr. Sisi and the departing interim president, Adly Mansour, sitting at two gleaming writing desks, signed a document commemorating what they described as Egypt’s first peaceful transition of power. But Mr. Sisi’s inauguration effectively formalizes his exercise of the power he has already wielded as the nation’s paramount decision maker since he deposed and jailed Mr. Morsi on July 3.
塞西与即将离任的临时总统阿兹利·曼苏尔(Adly Mansour)坐在两张闪闪发亮的写字台前，签署了一份文件。他们形容这份文件标志着埃及首次和平的权力交接。自去年7月3日，穆尔西被罢黜、监禁以来，塞西一直在作为埃及最重要的决策者行使权力，就职典礼实际上正式确立了他的权力。
Mr. Mansour, a senior judge, was named interim president by Mr. Sisi himself, so in a sense he is merely returning the chair. Shaking hands, the two men leaned in to kiss each other on the cheeks.
高级法官曼苏尔担任临时总统时，是塞西亲自提名的。因此，在某种意义上，曼苏尔只是交回了总统职位。两人握手，身体前倾亲吻彼此的脸颊。
Only a few scattered protests across the country were reported on Sunday. Thousands of people celebrated in Tahrir Square, the center of the 2011 uprising, now surrounded by tanks and barbed wire.
据报道，周日在埃及全国只发生了为数不多的零星抗议。有数千人在解放广场(Tahrir Square)进行庆祝。这里是2011年抗议运动的中心，广场四周目前环绕着坦克和铁丝网。
Mr. Sisi, who received more than 95 percent of the votes in a pro forma election last month, for the first time holds direct responsibility for confronting challenges as formidable as any Egypt has faced in the six decades since the overthrow of the British-backed monarchy. The economy was a sieve of unaffordable fuel subsidies and rampant corruption even before the tumult of the past three years, and it has been devastated by the collapse of its vital tourism business. Since the ouster of Mr. Morsi, the military-backed government has killed more than a thousand of his Islamist supporters during street protests and has jailed at least 16,000, reinforcing distrust and division.
塞西在上个月走过场的选举中，赢得了超过95%的选票。他首次承担起了直接的责任，抗击埃及面临的挑战——目前的局面与60年前英国支持的王室被推翻后，埃及面临的困难一样深重。埃及经济千疮百孔，在陷入过去三年的动荡之前，埃及就已经因为高昂的燃料补贴和猖獗的腐败而备受困扰，举足轻重的旅游业崩溃之后，更是受到了毁灭性的打击。穆尔西被罢黜后，由军方支持的政府在街头抗议中杀害了上千名穆尔西的伊斯兰派支持者，并将至少1.6万人关押入狱，加剧了双方的猜忌和分歧。
A widening crackdown on both Islamist and liberal dissent has shut down political debate and extinguished hopes for reconciliation, and attacks on soldiers and police officers by militants seeking retribution for the takeover have undermined public security.
针对伊斯兰主义者和自由派异见人士的大规模镇压，封闭了开展政治谈判的可能性，也消除了达成和解的希望；对军方接管政权的做法进行报复的激进分子，对士兵和警察发动袭击，从而对公共安全造成了破坏。
The inaugural ceremony on Sunday, however, suggested that Mr. Sisi, 59, was at least in full control of the Egyptian state, with little expectation of legislative, judicial or bureaucratic checks on his power — a sharp contrast to Mr. Morsi’s troubled year in the presidential palace.
然而，周日的就职仪式表明，59岁的塞西至少已经取得了埃及的全面控制权，他的权力几乎不会受到立法、司法和行政上的制衡——这与穆尔西担任总统时的困难局面形成了鲜明对比。
On the eve of Mr. Morsi’s victory as Egypt’s first democratically elected leader in June 2012, the Supreme Constitutional Court — its members all appointed under Mr. Mubarak — abruptly dissolved the newly elected and Islamist-led Parliament on a procedural technicality. The court ordered the transfer of legislative and budgeting power to Egypt’s top generals, who refused to allow the new president to be sworn in before either a crowd of citizens or an assembly of elected officials, as Mr. Morsi preferred.
2012年6月，在穆尔西成为埃及第一位通过民主选举产生的领导人前夕，最高宪法法院(Supreme Constitutional Court)——其成员都是由穆巴拉克任命的——突然以程序规定为由，解散了新选举产生、由伊斯兰派控制的议会。法院还下令，立法权和制定预算的权力应该移交给埃及的最高将领。穆尔西宣誓就职时，这些将领没有遂穆尔西所愿，让埃及公民或选举产生的官员来担当见证人。
Instead, he was forced to stand, teeth clenched, before the judges of the same court as they lectured him about their own importance. And continuous judicial battles, police insubordination and unchecked street protests vexed his administration for the 12 months until the military takeover ended his rule.
他被迫站在最高宪法法院的法官面前，咬紧牙关，听他们向自己阐述法官的重要性。接连不断的司法对抗、警察抗命，以及不受约束的街头抗议，在那一年里让他政府深受困扰，直到军方接管政权给他的统治画上句号。
Mr. Sisi, in contrast, was welcomed into the court as a national savior who had already revived Egypt at a time when “some had declared it dead,” as Maher Sami, the court’s deputy chief, declared in a lavish tribute to the president.
然而，法院对塞西表示欢迎。最高宪法法院副院长马希尔·萨米(Maher Sami)对塞西大加称赞，形容他是在“有人宣布埃及已经灭亡”的情况下，让埃及起死回生的国家救星。