MEXICO CITY — Mexican authorities on Monday continued their manhunt for Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the country’s most notorious drug kingpin, as many Mexicans expressed disbelief at his stunning escape and wondered how much of the government’s waning credibility may have slipped away through the tunnel that carried the trafficker to freedom.
墨西哥城——墨西哥当局周一继续对该国最臭名昭著的毒枭乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)进行搜捕。许多墨西哥人对他惊人的越狱行为表示难以置信，并且想知道政府本已日渐消退的公信力又有多少顺着那条令他通向自由的隧道溜走了。
“They’re all in it together, they’re all accomplices,” said José Manuel Gil, 61, a grocery shop owner, in Mexico City. “These all-mighty criminals are so powerful, I have an impression they have a direct line to the president, to let him know what they are doing and just wiring millions to buy off their free rein.”
“他们都一起参与了，他们都是同伙，” 墨西哥城一家生鲜店61岁的老板何塞·曼努埃尔·吉尔(José Manuel Gil)说。“这些无所不能的罪犯这么有势力，我觉得他们可以和总统直接交流，告知总统他们在做什么，干脆汇上几百万来买通自由。”
The stunning escape of Mr. Guzmán, known as “El Chapo,” or “Shorty,” from what was supposed to be the country’s most secure prison was the latest blow to an already weakened President Enrique Peña Nieto. It fed a deep cynicism in Mexico about the country’s leadership and its corruption-riddled institutions.
古兹曼，绰号“矮子”(El Chapo)。他从本应是全国安全级别最高的监狱中惊人地逃脱，是对本已遭到削弱的总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)的最新打击，并对墨西哥国家领导层及受腐败困扰的政府机构构成了深深的讥讽。
“The lack of rule of law, the stain of corruption and the disaster of the criminal system in Mexico is probably Mexico’s No. 1 problem,” said Enrique Krauze, a historian. “The escape only underlines the cruel and bitter reality. We need to reform the system starting from its roots.”
“缺乏法制、腐败的劣迹和刑事制度的混乱很可能是墨西哥的头号问题，”历史学者恩里克·克劳兹(Enrique Krauze)说。“这次的越狱不过是突显了现实的残酷和痛苦。我们需要从根本上改革体制。”
Of Mr. Guzmán’s escape he added, “Our worst nightmare has happened. This has a terrible weight, real and symbolic.”
对于古兹曼的越狱，他还表示，“最糟糕的噩梦已经成为现实。它构成了严重的影响，无论是现实中还是象征性的。”
On Saturday night, Mr. Guzmán entered the shower area of his cell and dropped through a small opening in the floor, about 20 inches on each side. He climbed down a ladder in a vertical shaft, then continued through an elaborately constructed tunnel about a mile long that ended in a small house on a construction site in a nearby community.
周六晚上，古曼兹进入牢房的淋浴区并从地上的一个长宽各约20英寸（约合0.5米）的小洞口下去。他顺着竖井的一个梯子向下爬，然后继续穿过一条精心建造的长约1英里（约合1.6公里）的隧道。隧道的尽头是附近社区一处建筑工地上的一座小房子。
When guards noticed that he had not come out of the shower, they sounded the alarm, but by then he had disappeared. The escape was announced Sunday morning.
看守在注意到他没有从淋浴区出来后就拉响了警报，但那时他已经消失了。越狱事件的消息是在周日上午对外宣布的。
Local news media reported on Monday that the head of the Altiplano prison, which is about a 90 minute drive west of Mexico City, had been detained and was being questioned by investigators, along with about 30 other prison employees.
地方新闻媒体在周一报道，这座名为“高原”(Altiplano)的联邦监狱的负责人已被拘捕并正受到调查人员的质询，一同受到质询的还有大约30名监狱雇员。这座监狱坐落在墨西哥城以西约90分钟车程的地方。
“It’s unbelievable,” said Alma Camarena Díaz, 54, of Mexico City. “The level of corruption in this country, it is just everywhere.”
“难以置信，”54岁的墨西哥城居民阿尔玛·卡马雷纳·迪亚兹(Alma Camarena Díaz)说。“这个国家腐败的程度，简直是无处不在。”
Mr. Guzmán, who is believed to be in his late 50s, rose through the ranks of Mexico’s drug syndicates to lead what is known as the Sinaloa Cartel, the country’s most powerful and, according to American authorities, the source of the greatest amount of drugs flowing into the United States. He is an underworld figure of mythical proportions and had once before escaped from prison, by bribing guards and, by some accounts, hiding in a laundry cart.
古兹曼据信年近六十，在墨西哥贩毒集团中一路高升，直到成为锡那罗亚卡特尔(Sinaloa Cartel)的老板。这是墨西哥势力最大的贩毒集团，而且美国当局表示，它也是流入美国的毒品的最大源头。他是一个充满神秘色彩的地下人物，并且已经有过一次越狱经历。那次的方式是贿赂看守，根据有些说法，他还藏到了一辆洗衣车里。
His latest escape was also a blow to the country’s main drug war strategy, carried out with help from the United States, of going after the leaders of violent trafficking gangs.
他最近的这次越狱还打击了墨西哥对毒品宣战的主要策略。这一策略在美国的帮助下执行，内容是追捕暴力贩毒团伙的头目。
Mr. Guzmán’s arrest in 2014 by the Mexican authorities, aided by intelligence provided by the United States, was at the time a coup for Mr. Peña Nieto, who sought to use it as a show of his government’s effectiveness.
在美国的情报协助下，古兹曼在2014年被墨西哥当局逮捕。对于试图借此来展现政府能力的培尼亚·涅托来说，这是一项巨大的成功。
But now Mr. Peña Nieto’s own words may come back to haunt him.
然而，培尼亚·涅托自己说出的话可能如今会回来找他的麻烦。
In a television interview just after Mr. Guzmán was captured last year, Mr. Peña Nieto was told that many Mexicans believed it was likely that he would escape again.
去年在古兹曼刚被捕之后接受电视采访时，培尼亚·涅托先生得知很多墨西哥人相信古兹曼很可能再次逃脱。
Mr. Peña Nieto said that a second escape would be “unforgivable.”
当时，培尼亚·涅托说第二次越狱将是“不可饶恕的”。
“This is a responsibility that the government has taken on, to assure that the escape that occurred a few years ago is not repeated,” the president said, adding that his government would be asking every day: “Is he being properly watched? Is he secure?”
“这是我们政府背负的责任，我们要确保几年前的逃狱事件不再重演，”总统又补充说，他的政府会每天追问：“他是不是受到了严密的监视，是不是看得很牢？”
Some Mexicans reacted to the escape with black humor. The sophisticated tunnel built to whisk Mr. Guzmán to freedom led some to joke that the drug traffickers were better at building infrastructure than the government. That included a new subway line in Mexico City, which has been plagued by problems, prompting quips that the project should be handed over to Mr. Guzmán and his minions.
一些墨西哥人对此次越狱事件报以黑色幽默。古斯曼得以重获自由的那条复杂的地道，让人们开玩笑说，毒贩比政府更适合做基础设施建设。这里所说的基础设施包括墨西哥城的新地铁线路。该线路充斥着各种问题，人们嘲讽政府应该将这个工程外包给古兹曼和他的马仔。
When Mr. Peña Nieto took office in December 2012, he attempted to shift the focus of the country and its image away from that of a nation rived by drug violence and corruption, and pressed ahead with reforms that many Mexicans felt were long overdue.
培尼亚·涅托自2012年12月上台以来，一直力图转变墨西哥这个国家的关注点，并努力让墨西哥脱离过去毒品暴力和腐败泛滥的国家形象。同时，他还推动了很多墨西哥民众认为早该实施的改革。
Though rattled, the president has tried to position Mexico as a country on the move economically, no longer mired in the violence of the drug war and the corruption of past administrations.
尽管有些忙乱，但是总统依然试图为墨西哥打造一个经济转型中的形象，不再受困于毒品战争的暴力和过去几届政府的腐败。
Yet episodes of extreme violence and corruption continued to drag the country back into the spotlight.
然而，腐败和极端暴力事件，却仍在让墨西哥不断受到外界的关注。
New gangs began to emerge as the security institutions broke apart the older, more established criminal groups. It often led to more infighting between the smaller players.
在安全部门瓦解旧有的犯罪团伙时，新帮派就会不断滋生出来，也引发了许多小团伙之间的争斗。
In early May, members of the New Generation gang fired a rocket-propelled grenade into an army helicopter, killing eight soldiers in a round of violence that claimed the lives of more than a dozen security forces. The emergence of the gang, forged from the pieces of other networks whose prominence had waned, was a stunning reminder of the flexibility and deadliness of the syndicates.
在5月初，“新生代”帮会(New Generation)对军方的直升机发射了一枚火箭弹，致使8名士兵死亡。在那一轮暴力冲突中，有十数名安全部队人员身亡。这个帮派是由已经销声匿迹的老帮派的成员重新组建的，它的出现提醒了世人一个惊人的事实，即这些帮派组织灵活、心狠手辣。
The most devastating example of the nation’s inability to establish the rule of law across large swaths of the country was the disappearance last year of 43 students in the state of Guerrero.
墨西哥政府无力在全国大范围内维护法治，最可怕的一个例子就是去年在格雷罗州，43名学生失踪的事件。
Investigators revealed that the mayor of the town of Iguala had been working with a gang in the area and had turned the students over to its members, who, the authorities have said, killed them and burned the remains. Scores of police officers were also arrested in the episode.
调查人员披露，伊瓜拉自治市的市长与当地帮派合伙，将这些学生交给帮派成员。当局表示，帮派成员杀死了一些学生，活埋了剩下的人。这起事件中，还有许多警察被捕。
In the search for the students, the mass graves of others were uncovered, revealing the extent of violence in the region.
在搜寻这些学生的过程中，还发现了很多墓地，显示出这个地区暴力事件肆虐的情况。
“What the escape really tells us about Mexico is the extreme difference between the quality and professionalism within the government,” said Viridriana Rios, a security analyst and director of a civic group. “You have an elite government that is able to capture drug traffickers and approve reforms the country has been waiting to see for decades, but all of the major scandals in terms of the security have come from the inability of the federal government to control the state and local governments.”
“这起越狱事件真正告诉我们的是，在墨西哥政府内部，人员素质和专业性有着极大的差距，”一个公民团体的安全分析师兼总监维理戴安娜·里奥斯(Viridriana Rios)说，“我们精英的政府有能力抓捕毒贩，也同意推行众人期待了几十年的改革。然而，还是出现了安全方面的丑闻，这是因为联邦政府无力控制州政府和地方政府。”
Alejandro Hope, a security expert and former intelligence officer, said the escape undermines Mr. Peña Nieto’s main narrative: that he gets things done, in contrast to the incompetence of previous governments.
安全顾问和前情报官员亚历杭德罗·奥佩(Alejandro Hope)说，这次越狱事件击垮了培尼亚·涅托的论调：他说他能把事情做好，与往届政府的无能不同。