MEXICO CITY — His church turned him away, his family discouraged him from a public fight and the government of the state where he lives vowed it would never happen.
墨西哥城——教会不接纳他，家人劝他不要进行公开斗争，在他所在的州，政府发誓说他的要求永远不会实现。 But it did. Hiram Gonzalez married his boyfriend, Severiano Chavez, last year in the northern state of Chihuahua, which, like most Mexican states, technically allows marriage only between a man and a woman.
但是最后实现了。希兰·冈萨雷斯(Hiram Gonzalez)去年在墨西哥北部的奇瓦瓦州和男朋友塞韦里亚诺·查韦斯(Severiano Chavez)结了婚。像墨西哥大多数州一样，从严格法律意义上说，该州也只允许男人和女人结婚。
Mr. Gonzalez and dozens of other gay couples in recent months have, however, found a powerful ally: Mexico’s Supreme Court.
然而，最近几个月，冈萨雷斯和其他几十对男同性恋伴侣找到了一个强大的盟友：墨西哥最高法院。
In ruling after ruling, the court has said that state laws restricting marriage to heterosexuals are discriminatory. Though the decisions have been made to little public fanfare, they have had the effect of legalizing gay marriage in Mexico without enshrining it in law.
最高法院在一个接一个的裁决中表示，州法律只允许异性恋者结婚是一种歧视行为。虽然这些裁决几乎没有进行公开宣传，但它们实际上在没有立法明确规定的情况下，在墨西哥达成了同性婚姻合法化的效果。
“When I heard the judge pronounce us legally married, I burst into tears,” said Mr. Gonzalez, 41, who, like nearly all gays marrying in Mexico, needed a court order enabling him to exchange vows.
“我听到法官宣布我们合法成婚时，不禁泪流满面，”41岁的冈萨雷斯说。在墨西哥结婚的同性恋者几乎全都像他们一样，需要有法院指令，才能交换誓言。
As the United States awaits a landmark decision on gay marriage by the Supreme Court, the Mexican court’s rulings have added the country to a slowly growing list of Latin American nations permitting same-sex unions.
当美国还在等着最高法院就同性婚姻做出一项里程碑式的判决时，墨西哥最高法院的裁决让该国成了又一个允许同性婚姻的拉美国家。在拉美，允许同性婚姻的国家正在慢慢增多。
Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil already allow same-sex marriage. Chile plans to recognize same-sex civil unions this year; Ecuador approved civil unions in April; and Colombia grants same-sex couples many of the same rights extended to heterosexual married couples.
阿根廷、乌拉圭和巴西已经允许同性婚姻。智利计划在今年认可同性婚姻；厄瓜多尔今年4月批准了同性婚姻；哥伦比亚则授予了同性伴侣很多与异性恋夫妇一样的权利。
“It’s a huge change from where things were 10 years ago,” said Jason Pierceson, a professor at the University of Illinois at Springfield who studies gay marriage trends in Latin America.
“同十年前相比，这是一种巨变，”伊利诺伊大学斯普林菲尔德分校(University of Illinois at Springfield)研究拉美同性婚姻趋势的教授贾森·皮尔森(Jason Pierceson)说。
The shift in Mexico, the second largest country in Latin America after Brazil, is the product of a legal strategy that advocates used to bypass state legislatures, which have shown little inclination, and often hostility, to legalizing gay marriage.
墨西哥是仅次于巴西的拉美第二大国家。该国的转变，是一项法律战略的结果。倡导人士用这一战略，绕开了州级立法机构。这些立法机构几乎没有表现出允许同性婚姻的倾向，而且经常对此抱有敌意。
In 2009, Mexico City, a large liberal island in this socially conservative country, legalized gay marriage — a first in Latin America. There have been 5,297 same-sex weddings there since then, some of them couples coming to the city from other states.
在这个社会保守的国家，庞大的墨西哥城仿佛是一个自由派的孤岛。2009年，墨西哥城使同性婚姻合法化，这在拉美属于首次。自那时以来，墨西哥城已经举办了5297场同性婚礼，部分同性伴侣是从其他州前往该市的。
Of the nation’s 31 states, only one other, Coahuila, near the Texas border, has legalized gay marriage. A third state, Quintana Roo, where Cancun is, has allowed gay unions since 2012, when advocates pointed out that its civil code on marriage did not stipulate that couples be one man and one woman.
除墨西哥城外，在该国的31个州里，只有接近德克萨斯州边境的科阿韦拉州宣布同性婚姻合法。另一个州，即坎昆所在的金塔纳罗奥州，在倡导人士2012年指出，该州涉及婚姻的民事法典并未规定婚姻双方应为一男一女后，允许同性恋结合。
In most of the rest of the country, marriage is legally defined as a union between a man and a woman — laws that may remain on the books despite the court’s decisions.
在该国其他大部分地区，婚姻在法律上仍被定义为一男一女的结合。尽管最高法院做出了相关判决，但这些法律条文的效力可能仍会持续。
The Supreme Court upheld Mexico City’s law in 2010, adding that other states had to recognize marriages performed there.
2010年，最高法院支持了墨西哥城的法律，并接着表示，其他州必须承认在那里结成的婚姻。
Advocates of gay marriage saw that as an opportunity to use the court’s rulings to assert that marriage laws in other states were discriminatory.
同性婚姻的倡导人士认为，可以利用这个机会，借助最高法院的裁决，来阐明其他州的婚姻法具有歧视性。
The court — taking into account international decisions and antidiscrimination treaties that Mexico has signed — has steadily agreed, granting injunctions in individual cases permitting gay couples to marry in states where the laws forbid it.
最高法院考虑到了其他国家的裁决，以及墨西哥签署的反歧视条约，坚决认同这一点。于是，墨西哥最高法院开始就个案发布命令，允许同性伴侣在法律禁止他们结婚的州里结婚。
A major turning point occurred this month when the court expanded on its rulings to issue a decree that any state law restricting marriage to heterosexuals is discriminatory.
本月出现了一个重要的转折点，最高法院详述了其颁布相关法令的裁决，该法令指出，任何将婚姻限于异性恋者的州法律都带有歧视性。
“As the purpose of matrimony is not procreation, there is no justified reason that the matrimonial union be heterosexual, nor that it be stated as between only a man and only a woman,” the ruling said. “Such a statement turns out to be discriminatory in its mere expression.”
“由于婚姻的目的不是生育，没有正当理由说明婚姻只存在于异性之间，或者说仅存在于一个男人和一个女人之间，”裁决称。“这样的表述仅仅在措辞上就具有歧视性。”
The ruling, however, does not automatically strike down the state marriage laws. However, it allows gay couples who are denied marriage rights in their states to seek injunctions from district judges, who are now obligated to grant them.
然而这项裁决不会自动推翻各州的婚姻法。但是法律允许那些在所在州没有结婚权利的同性恋伴侣向地区法官寻求禁制令，地区法官现在有义务给他们签发命令。
In Mr. Gonzalez’s case, the Supreme Court had already ruled that the law in Chihuahua State was unconstitutional, enabling the couple to get an injunction so that their marriage could go forward.
在冈萨雷斯一案中，最高法院裁定奇瓦瓦州的法律违宪，使得这对伴侣能够获得禁制令，从而得以结婚。
State officials in Chihuahua vowed to never legalize same-sex marriage, and Mr. Gonzalez said he was expelled from his local church for being gay.
奇瓦瓦州的官员发誓永远不会让同性婚姻合法化，而冈萨雷斯表示，因为自己是同性恋，他遭到当地教堂的驱逐。
He and his husband refused to go to Mexico City to get married because they believed they should have that right in the state where they pay taxes.
他和丈夫拒绝前往墨西哥城结婚，因为他们认为在自己纳税的州应该享有这个权利。
The principle, he said, was important.
他说，原则很重要。
“It is not just the legal battle, but what it involves, the emotional and physical strain of the process,” Mr. Gonzalez said. “At the end, it’s a fight for your dignity.”
“这不只是一场官司，还涵盖其中所涉及的东西，在这个过程中心理和身体所承受的压力，”冈萨勒斯说。“到最后，这是为尊严而战。”
Alex Ali Mendez, a lawyer and gay rights activist with Mexico Marriage Equality, took on a case involving three couples from Oaxaca State in 2012, using the Supreme Court’s arguments to challenge the law in that state.
亚历克斯·阿里·门德斯(Alex Ali Mendez)是一位律师，也是墨西哥婚姻平等组织(Mexico Marriage Equality)的同性恋权利活动人士。他2012年接的一个案子涉及三对来自瓦哈卡州的同性伴侣，他利用最高法院的论据对该州的法律提出质疑。
The court ruled in the couples’ favor. It was the first such decision in a state case.
法庭做出了有利于这些同性伴侣的裁决。这种判决在州法院审理的案件中尚属首次。
“We opened the door in Oaxaca, and we are now opening it in different states,” Mr. Mendez said.
门德斯说，“我们在瓦哈卡打开了这扇门，现在正在其他州打开这扇门。”
Bureaucratic hurdles, and sometimes hostility, remain.
官僚制度方面的障碍以及时而出现的敌对情绪仍然存在。
Civil registry authorities abiding by state laws can still block couples hoping to marry.
根据州法律，民政注册机构仍然可以阻止希望结婚的同性伴侣。
It is up to the couples to appeal to the courts, a process that can cost $1,000 or more and take months. Although gay rights advocates are spreading the word, many couples remain unaware that they have a strong legal case to get married.
同性伴侣们可以选择向法院上诉，这一过程会花掉1000美元（约合6208元人民币）甚至更多的钱，而且还要耗费几个月的时间。尽管同性恋权益倡导者正在散布消息，许多同性伴侣仍然没有意识到，他们的婚姻有着坚实的法律依据。
Mr. Mendez, the lawyer pressing these cases, said the next step in the legal process was compiling enough injunctions in each state to reach a threshold under which the court could formally order state legislatures to rewrite their laws.
为这些案件据理力争的律师门德斯说，法律程序上，下一步就是在各州收集足够多的禁制令，以达到一个临界值，从而使法院能正式命令州立法机关重新修订法律。