Body parts strewn on highways, etched with the letter Z. Videotaped torture sessions uploaded onto YouTube. Victims placed in barrels and dissolved into a “stew” of violent death.
尸块被散弃在高速公路上，上面刻着字母Z。拍摄的酷刑过程被上传到YouTube上。受害者被放入桶中，残忍地“炖”死。
Since the Zetas emerged less than a decade ago as the brutal new figures in the storied history of organized crime here, Mexico has experienced some of its most shocking episodes of violence, and the bloodshed has seeped into other countries throughout the region. Founded by heavily armed former soldiers trained for war, the Zetas did not pioneer sensational acts of violence in Mexico, but they perfected the practice of carnage as message, as they expanded beyond drug trafficking into extortion, migrant smuggling, kidnapping and other crimes.
从不到10年前，泽塔斯(Zetas)作为残忍的新角色出现在墨西哥臭名昭著的黑帮世界，这个国家经历了一些震惊世界的暴力事件，而它的杀戮行为甚至扩散至该地区的其他国家。泽塔斯由武装到牙齿的退役士兵建立，他们都曾接受过战斗训练。虽然，泽塔斯并不是墨西哥耸人听闻的暴力事件的开创者，他们却将杀戮发展到极致，以此发出他们的讯息，同时，他们也开始多方面发展，不仅贩毒，还敲诈勒索、组织偷渡，并实施绑架与其他犯罪活动。
With the arrest on Monday of Miguel Ángel Treviño Morales, the Zeta crime boss so greatly feared that many would not dare utter his name in public, Mexico’s long and bloody drug war may have reached a crossroads. Nobody believes that drug trafficking will let up now that the Zetas have been weakened. And an array of ruthless gunmen in and out of the Zetas have no qualms about continuing to kill.
周一，随着泽塔斯的老板米格尔·安格尔·特雷维诺·莫拉莱斯(Miguel Ángel Treviño Morales)被捕，墨西哥漫长而血腥的毒品战争可能已走到了一个十字路口。许多人都非常惧怕特雷维诺，以至于不敢公开说出他的名字。即便是泽塔斯的势力已被削弱，也没人相信墨西哥的贩毒活动就会减少。而泽塔斯集团内外大量残忍的枪手还会继续杀戮，不会感到任何不安。
But Mr. Treviño’s arrest, the killing of the previous Zeta commander in October and the recent capture of several other lieutenants have rocked the trafficking organizations that did the most to damage Mexico’s image and instill the most fear among the people.
但是，特雷维诺的被捕，加上去年10月泽塔斯上一任首领被杀，以及近期对几名大头目的逮捕，已经震动了一些贩毒集团。而正是它们给墨西哥的形象造成了最严重的破坏，也让人们最为害怕。
Mr. Treviño, who was better known as Z-40, after his radio call sign given by the militaristic group, was captured before dawn on Monday after spending time with his newborn child in a rural area near the Texas border, with $2 million in his pickup truck. American authorities played a key behind-the-scenes role in his apprehension and, after his arrest, confirmed his identity through biometric and DNA tests, according to officials on both sides of the border, who were not authorized to speak publicly on the case.
特雷维诺更为人知的名字是Z-40，这是他在这家军事化组织里的无线电台呼号。周一黎明前，他在靠近德克萨斯边境线附近的郊区被捕，他的皮卡车里装有200万美元（约合1232万元人民币），此前他一直和自己出生不久的孩子在一起。据边境两边的官员称，在成功逮捕特雷维诺的行动中，美国执法部门发挥了关键的幕后作用，并在他被捕后，还通过生物计量手段和DNA测试确认了他的身份。这些官员并未获得授权公开谈论此案。
The relatively quiet denouement of Mr. Treviño’s career belies the mayhem that made his organization stand out. In some ways, analysts said, the Zetas became a victim of perverse success.
特雷维诺的犯罪生涯就这样较为平静地结束了，这与使他的组织脱颖而出的暴力形象显然不符。分析人士称，从某种意义上说，泽塔斯因手段毒辣而成功，又成了自身成功的受害者。
The organization grew so fast, drew in so much money and hired so many gunmen quick to pull the trigger that it lost the loyalty that other Mexican crime syndicates engendered toward their leaders, while older, more established cartels sought to take down the Young Turks making business tough for everybody.
该组织发展如此迅速，赚到了这么多钱，并雇佣了如此之多的冷血枪手，它因此失去了墨西哥其他犯罪集团对其领导人抱有的忠诚，而同时，那些历史更久、根基更深的犯罪集团也想扳倒这些让其他人的生意都难做的少壮派。
“They broke the rules of the game,” said George W. Grayson, a professor at the College of William and Mary and author of the “The Executioner’s Men,” a history of the Zetas. “They wanted to brand themselves, and the brand they chose was the meanest, leanest, most sadistic organization in the Americas. Just mentioning Zetas sparks fear in the hearts of those who hear them.”
威廉玛丽学院(College of William and Mary)教授乔治·W·格雷森(George W. Grayson)写了一本书，名为《行刑者的男人》(The Executioner’s Men)，该书记录了泽塔斯的历史。“他们破坏了游戏规则，”格雷森说，“他们希望打造自己的形象，而他们选择的形象就是美洲最卑劣、最强干、最暴虐的组织。仅仅是提到泽塔斯就会让许多人心生恐惧。”
Where family and community ties bind larger cartels, the Zetas, increasingly run by young recruits trained in remote camps to kill in spectacular fashion, depended on a culture of military discipline and a hierarchy that began to fracture under the pressure exerted by Mexican and American law enforcement.
泽塔斯越来越多地是由新人操控着，这些人往往在偏远的集训营接受过训练，学习以不同寻常的方式进行杀戮。虽然家庭和社区关系网常常是维系大型贩毒集团的纽带，泽塔斯却更依赖于一种军纪文化和等级制度，但在墨西哥和美国执法机构施加的压力之下，它开始出现裂纹。
The danger remains that the splintering and fragmentation of the Zetas will simply leave a set of smaller, dangerous gangs copying their name and tactics as they continue to extort, kidnap and deal drugs. State and local police forces are generally too corrupted, ill prepared or not committed to take them on.
危险依然是，泽塔斯的分崩离析将会留下一系列规模较小的、危险的黑帮组织，它们会借用泽塔斯的招牌和战术，继续进行敲诈、绑架和毒品交易。墨西哥的联邦和地方警察基本都太腐败、装备不良，或者没有足够决心，因而无法与它们进行斗争。
But several analysts said the arrest of Mr. Treviño, led by Mexican marines but supported with intelligence from the United States — where he is wanted on drug and gun charges — could be the beginning of the end of the group as a large cartel and, possibly, the large-scale violence it carried out with such bravado.
在美国情报机构的支持下，墨西哥海军陆战队主导了特雷维诺的逮捕行动。几位分析人士表示，对于这个大型贩毒集团，或许还有它肆无忌惮地实施的大规模暴力活动，特雷维诺的被捕或许将开始终结这一切。在美国，特雷维诺因毒品和枪支罪名被通缉。
“As a cohesive group there is probably not much left of them,” said Alejandro Hope, a former Mexican intelligence officer and now security consultant at a Mexico City research group. “But there will continue to be people who call themselves Zetas, act like Zetas and belong to gangs that use their letter.”
“泽塔斯作为一个有凝聚力的组织可能不会再剩下什么，”墨西哥前情报官员、现担任墨西哥城一家研究机构安全顾问的亚历杭德罗·奥佩(Alejandro Hope)说。“但还继续会有人称自己为泽塔斯，像泽塔斯一样行事，并为使用泽塔斯标志的犯罪组织服务。”
International pressure will be a key factor, as arresting a capo is one thing, but taking apart an organization with offshoots in several countries is another, said Alberto Islas, a security expert in Mexico City.
国际上的压力将会起到决定性作用。因为逮捕一个黑帮首领是一回事，摧毁一个在多个国家有分支的组织却是另一回事，墨西哥城的安全专家阿尔韦托·伊斯拉斯(Alberto Islas)说。
In this case, President Enrique Peña Nieto, who took office in December promising to reduce the violence, had made clear that Mr. Treviño, who faces organized crime, murder, drug trafficking and torture charges, was a prime target. But, after years of what it saw as too much American involvement in its security agencies, the Mexican government wanted its forces to lead the way.
在这件事上，去年12月就任时就承诺要减少这个国家暴力犯罪的总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)明确表示，被指控实施有组织犯罪、谋杀、贩毒和酷刑的特雷维诺是打击的首要目标。但墨西哥政府认为，多年来美国人过多地插手它的安全机构，因此它希望自己的相关部门能起到领导作用。
Still, the Mexicans recognized the need for American help, and the two governments began sharing information on Mr. Treviño several months ago, with the Americans passing along word of the birth of Mr. Treviño’s child a little more than a month ago, the official said. The Americans also shared the information that he appeared to be making trips to visit the baby in the Nuevo Laredo area, near where he was captured, the official said.
但一位匿名的美国执法官员表示，墨西哥人还是很清楚，他们需要美国人的帮助，因此从几个月前，两国政府开始共享信息，而一个多月以前，美国人提供了这条消息：特雷维诺的孩子出生了。这位官员说，美国人还共享了这样一条消息，说特雷维诺似乎多次去新拉雷多地区探望孩子，而他最终就是在那附近被捕的。
The American and Mexican authorities traded intelligence gleaned from conversations caught on wiretaps and tips from informants that ultimately led Mexican authorities to Mr. Treviño’s truck, moving before dawn on a remote highway near the border, the official said. Mexican marines in a helicopter intercepted Mr. Treviño and arrested him and two aides without a shot. Eight guns and $2 million in cash were confiscated.
这位官员还说，美国和墨西哥当局交换的情报收集自窃听谈话和线人的情报，也正是这些信息最终引导墨西哥执法部门找到了特雷维诺的卡车，天亮之前，这辆卡车正在边境附近一条偏僻的高速公路上行驶。墨西哥海军陆战队用直升机拦截了这辆车，兵不血刃地逮捕了特雷维诺和两名助手，并当场收缴了八把枪和200万美元现金。
“The reason they caught him without layers of security and without firing a shot,” said Art Fontes, a former F.B.I. official who spent years tracking Mr. Treviño, “is because he had $2 million in the vehicle and he thought he could buy his way out.”
“他们抓住特雷维诺的时候，他的身边并没有层层保卫人员，而且一枪未发，”一位曾多年追踪特雷维诺的前美国联邦调查局(FBI)官员阿特·方特斯(Art Fontes)说，“这是因为他的车上有200万美元，他以为自己可以用这笔钱进行收买，从而脱身。”