MEXICO CITY — President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico on Monday, pushing one of the most sweeping economic overhauls in Mexico in the past two decades, proposed opening his country’s historically closed energy industry to foreign investment.
墨西哥城——周一，正在推动墨西哥20年来最广泛经济改革之一的总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)提议，允许外国投资进入一片历史上的禁地，墨西哥能源行业。
The president’s plan, which would rewrite two amendments to the Constitution, challenges a bedrock assumption of Mexico’s national identity – its total sovereignty over its energy resources — by inviting private companies to explore and pump for oil and natural gas.
总统的这一计划可能改写两项宪法修正案，此外，由于计划涉及邀请私营公司勘探和开采石油及天然气，还会挑战墨西哥对自身国家身份的一个基本设想，即拥有本国能源资源的全部主权。
Mr. Pena Nieto’s goal, like those of presidents before him, is to recharge Mexico’s economic growth — which has averaged less than 2 percent a year since 2000 — by tackling areas of the economy that analysts agree hinder the nation’s expansion.
同一些前任一样，培尼亚·涅托的目标是理顺被分析人士一致认为拖累了该国发展的一些经济领域，刺激墨西哥经济增长。
Perhaps the worst of those is the creaky energy sector. Demand for energy in the country is growing so fast that Mexico could turn from an energy exporter to an energy importer by 2020, the government says.
或许，拖累最大的便是陈旧过时的能源领域。政府称，国内的能源需求增长十分迅猛，以至于到2020年，墨西哥可能会从一个能源出口国变成能源进口国。
Already, Mexico must import almost half its gasoline – mostly from the United States. Mexican companies pay 25 percent more for electricity than their competitors in other countries, the government says. Although Mexico has some of the world’s largest reserves of shale gas, it imports one-third of its natural gas.
现在，墨西哥几乎一半的汽油已经需要进口，主要是从美国进口。政府称，墨西哥公司支付的电费比其他国家的竞争对手多25%。尽管墨西哥拥有全世界储量最大的一些页岩气田，该国所用天然气仍有三分之一需要进口。
In advancing the plan, Mr. Peña Nieto is making a gamble that the support he has built with opposition parties to make deep-seated changes in education and telecommunications policy will carry over into the debate over energy and a related tax reform he will send to Congress next month.
推进前述计划，培尼亚·涅托是在进行一场赌博，假定他同各反对党派为了深刻变革教育和电信政策而构筑起来的共识可以延续到围绕能源的辩论，以及一项相关的税收改革。他将于下月向国会提交该项改革方案。
Until now, Mr. Peña Nieto has proved astute at negotiating changes based on a broad list of commitments that all three major political parties agreed on last December. He has been helped by the two main opposition parties being weakened after the 2012 general election, which gave Mr. Peña Nieto’s Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, a majority in Congress.
迄目前为止，培尼亚·涅托已经在就基于一系列广泛承诺的改革进行谈判时证明了自己的精明，那些承诺在去年12月得到了所有三个主要政党的认同。他得到了两个主要反对派政党的协助，后者在2012年的大选后遭到削弱，培尼亚·涅托所在的革命制度党（Institutional Revolutionary Party，简称PRI）通过大选赢得了国会的多数席位。
But his two major victories so far in education and telecommunications were comparatively easy. There was already broad consensus on the need to rein in the power of the teachers’ union and the powerful companies that control telecommunications and television broadcasting in Mexico.
迄今为止，他取得的两大胜利是在教育和电信领域，但这两次胜利都比较容易。原因是之前已经有了广泛的共识，需要控制教师工会和一些强势公司的权力，那些公司控制着墨西哥的通讯和电视广播。
In energy, the divisions are much deeper. In particular, Mexico’s left-wing parties have been adamant that the Constitution’s prohibition on private investment should remain ironclad. From the right, the National Action Party, or PAN, proposed an energy reform last month that would go even further than Mr. Peña Nieto to invite in private investment.
能源领域的分歧远比前述两个领域要深。尤其明显的是，墨西哥的各个左翼党派一直坚持认为，宪法禁止私人投资的政策应该坚定不移。右翼的国家行动党（National Action Party，简称PAN）则在上个月提出了一项能源改革计划，它在鼓励私人投资方面比培尼亚·涅托还要激进。
Public opinion is also suspicious about opening up the industry. A survey last year by CIDE, a Mexico City university, found that 65 percent of the public opposed private investment in Pemex, the state-owned oil monopoly.
公众也对开放这个行业表示怀疑。去年，墨西哥城CIDE大学在调查中发现，65%的公众都反对国有石油垄断企业墨西哥国家石油公司(Pemex)引入私人投资。
“The entire energy reform is a potential source of conflict,” said Luis Miguel Labardini, a consultant with Marcos y Asociados, a Mexican energy consulting firm. “Sometimes in Mexico we are conflict-averse. We have to take our chances because the reward is there.”
“整个能源改革都很可能会引起冲突，”墨西哥能源咨询公司Marcos y Asociados的顾问卢伊斯·米格尔·拉巴尔迪尼(Luis Miguel Labardini)说。“有时在墨西哥，我们都很不愿意卷入冲突。可我们只能抓住机会，因为回报就在那里。”
The proposal will allow private companies to negotiate profit-sharing contracts with the government to drill for oil and gas. Under such a scheme, the reserves will continue to belong to the Mexican state, but investors will get a share of the profits. Private investment will be allowed in refining, transport lines, and petrochemical production. The proposal would also loosen restrictions on private investment in electricity generation.
这项提议将允许私人公司就油气开采业务与政府协商利润分配合约。在这种框架下，油气储备仍然属于国家，但是投资者能够分享利润。私人投资的范围将包括炼油、运输管线和石化产品生产。该提议还将放宽发电行业对私人投资的限制。
Although most analysts believe that Mr. Peña Nieto has the votes in Congress to pass the reform if the PAN votes along with his party, the president appears to want to sway public opinion, as evidenced by his decision to make a prime-time televised address on the subject Monday night.
大多数分析师认为，如果PAN投票时与培尼亚·涅托的党派站在一边，涅托就能在国会获得通过改革提案所需的票数，尽管如此，总统似乎还想改变公众的意见，体现就是他决定于周一晚上在黄金时段就该问题发表电视讲话。
“It is fine to appeal to rationality, but when it is about these issues, it’s indispensable to touch the audience’s heart,” wrote an analyst, Maria Amparo Casar, in the Excelsior newspaper last week.
上周，分析人士马里亚·安帕罗·卡萨尔(Maria Amparo Casar)在报纸Excelsior上写道，“诉诸理性是件好事，但是，谈论这些问题的时候，触动听众的内心也是必不可少的。”
The left-wing leader, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who won more than 30 percent of the vote in last year’s general election, is planning street marches to protest the change. If he succeeds in filling the streets of the capital, as he did when a much less sweeping change was proposed in 2008, it may be harder for party leaders to stand behind the plan.
左翼领导人安德烈斯·马努埃尔·洛佩斯·奥夫拉多尔(Andrés Manuel López Obrador)在去年的大选中获得了超过30%的选票，他正在筹划发动街头游行来抗议这种变革。如果他成功地让首都的街道上挤满示威者（2008年，有人提出另一项影响较小的变革时，他就是这么做的），各党派领导人支持该计划的难度就会增加。