MEXICO CITY — An international committee of experts reviewing the case of 43 missing college students whose disappearance last fall traumatized Mexico said Sunday that there was no evidence to support the government’s conclusion that the students were executed by a drug gang that then burned the bodies to ashes in a garbage dump.
墨西哥城——周日，一个正在核查去年墨西哥失踪大学生案的国际专家委员会称，没有证据能支持政府的结论，即学生们已被一个贩毒团伙处死，尸体随后在一个垃圾场内被焚烧。去年秋天这43名大学生失踪一事令墨西哥举国震惊。
Not only did physical evidence contradict the government’s version of what happened to the students, but the review showed that federal police and soldiers knew that the students were being attacked by the municipal police and failed to intervene.
不仅实物证据与政府关于学生去向的解释相矛盾，而且核查显示，联邦警察和士兵在知道学生被地方警察攻击的情况下没有加以干涉。
The report’s conclusions were a sharp rebuke to the government of President Enrique Peña Nieto, which had sought to put the case to rest. Its release could rekindle the widespread anger and incredulity that flared in the weeks after the students vanished from Iguala in the southern state of Guerrero last Sept. 26.
报告结论是对之前试图平息该案的恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)政府的严厉指责。结论的公布可能再次引发普遍的愤怒及质疑，这种情绪曾在学生们消失后的数周内一度高涨。去年9月26日，学生们在南方的格雷罗州伊瓜拉市失踪。
That episode helped shatter the image that the president had worked hard to establish — as a modern young reformer poised to turbocharge Mexico’s economy, and it thrust the nation’s chronic afflictions of organized crime and corruption back into the public consciousness.
这位总统苦心经营的形象——致力于让墨西哥经济飞速发展的一位现代而年轻的改革者——在此次事件中被破坏，而且将国家长期以来与有组织犯罪和贪污的关联重新塞进公众意识中。
“We ask the Mexican authorities to clarify the disappearance of the students and to make a general reassessment of the entire investigation,” said Carlos Beristain, one of the five members of the panel appointed by the Inter-American Commission for Human Rights, part of the Organization of American States.
“我们要求墨西哥当局澄清学生的失踪，并对整个调查做一个总体再评估，”专家组的五位成员之一卡洛斯·贝里斯泰恩(Carlos Beristain)说，该专家组由美洲国家组织的美洲国际人权委员会任命。
“The brutal actions shows the extent of impunity in which the state security forces acted along with organized crime,” added Mr. Beristain, a Spaniard who has worked on many human rights investigations in Latin America that involved disappearances.
“这起暴行显示出，和有组织的犯罪沆瀣一气的州安全部队有多么肆无忌惮，”贝里斯泰恩接着说。贝里斯泰恩是西班牙人，在拉丁美洲做过许多涉及失踪的人权调查。
After the report’s release, Mr. Peña Nieto said on Twitter that he had ordered investigators to take into account the experts’ recommendations.
报告公布之后，培尼亚·涅托总统在推特上说，他已经命令调查人员将专家的建议纳入考虑范围。
Mexico’s attorney general, Arely Gómez, called the committee’s work “crucial” and added that prosecutors would carefully analyze the findings and ponder whether to incorporate them into the inquiry.
墨西哥总检察长阿热丽·戈麦斯(Arely Gómez)称委员会的工作“至关重要”，还说检察人员会仔细分析调查结果，并考虑是否将这些结果纳入问询。
She said that the report’s recommendation for a second forensic investigation at the dump site would be carried out with a new team of “high-quality and prestigious experts.”
对于报告建议的在垃圾站进行第二次痕检调查，她说将由新的一组“高质量、有名望的专家”执行。
According to the government’s account, about 100 students who attended a teachers college in the town of Ayotzinapa went to Iguala to steal buses for transportation to a demonstration.
根据政府的说法，大约100名在阿尤兹纳帕市某师范学院就读的学生到伊古拉偷大巴车，目的是运送学生参加一个游行示威活动。
The authorities say that Iguala’s mayor, José Luis Abarca, ordered his police force to subdue the students. Three students were killed by the police. Forty-three others were taken off the buses and turned over to a drug gang, Guerreros Unidos, that was allied with the mayor, according to the official account.
当局称伊古拉的市长何塞·路易斯·阿巴尔卡(José Luis Abarca)命令他的警察部门制服这些学生。三名学生被警察杀死。其他43名被带下大巴，移交给一个名为“联合战士”(Guerreros Unidos)的贩毒团伙。据官方声称，该团伙与市长有关联。
Six weeks after the disappearance, the Mexican authorities said that the students had been taken to a garbage dump in the neighboring town of Cocula, killed, and cremated in a giant pyre of wood and tires doused with gasoline.
在学生失踪六个星期后，墨西哥当局说学生们已经被带到附近科库拉市的一个垃圾场杀害，并且尸体在一个浇了汽油的巨大木柴和轮胎堆中被焚烧。
Yet the clearest sign that the government’s version was not true came from the dump itself, according to the report.
然而报告指出政府说法与事实不符，最明显的证据正是来自那座垃圾场。
“The students simply were not burned in that place,” said Francisco Cox, a Chilean lawyer and another member of the panel. The intense heat needed to burn 43 bodies would have blackened the surrounding vegetation, and, José Torero, a leading fire expert engaged by the panel, agreed that there was no evidence to support the government’s scenario.
“简单说，这些学生不是在那里被焚烧的，”五人专家组的另一名成员、智利律师弗朗西斯科·科克斯(Francisco Cox)说。因为焚烧43具尸体需要的剧烈高温会使周围植被变黑，专家组聘请的知名焚烧专家何塞·托雷罗(José Torero)也同意，现场没有证据可以佐证政府对事故的描述。
The report concluded with a strong recommendation that the Mexican authorities reconsider the entire case based on the investigation’s “clear shortcomings” and “serious inconsistencies.”
结尾处，该报告以强烈语气提议，鉴于调查出现“明显的缺陷”和“严重的前后矛盾”，墨西哥政府应该重新审视整个案件。
That investigation, the report charged, took a haphazard and improvised approach, and much of the case that resulted was based on testimony from police officers and gang members, who later claimed that they had been tortured.
专家在报告中指责这项调查的方式随意且缺乏计划，而且得出的案情结论有很多都基于警官和黑帮成员的证词，而这些人后来又声称自己曾被刑讯逼供。
The report did not establish where the students went or even whether they were killed. Only one body has been identified, from a bone that the authorities said was found near the dump. The other 42 should still be considered “disappeared,” the report’s authors said.
这份报告没有说明那些学生究竟去了哪儿，甚至也不确定他们是否已被杀害。目前只有一名受害人因一根遗留的骨头被辨认出来，当局表示这根骨头是在垃圾场附近发现的。这份报告的作者们表示，其他42名学生目前依然被认定为“失踪”。
Many other questions remain unanswered. Recordings from C4, the communications system that coordinates information for local, state and federal police, as well as the army, were not available to explain critical lapses as events unfolded on Sept. 26 and in the early hours of Sept. 27. Videos from security cameras were lost, and in one case erased. Clothing left behind by the victims was not tested until last month. The dump and other potential crime scenes were left unguarded for days.
还有很多其他问题，也没有找到答案。该事件在9月26日和9月27日早间展开，但相关的C4录音资料并没有被提供出来，以解释一些关键的信息空白点。C4是当地警局和国家、联邦警署，以及军队之间用以协调信息的通信系统。监控摄像头的多段影像记录已丢失，其中有一段是被抹掉的。留在现场的受害人衣物直到上个月才被拿去化验。垃圾场和其他有可能的犯罪现场曾经数天无人看守。
Human rights activists who have been following the case offered searing assessments.
跟踪这一案件的人权活动分子对此作出了严苛的评价。
“This report provides an utterly damning indictment of Mexico’s handling of the worst human rights atrocity in recent memory,” said José Miguel Vivanco, the Americas director of Human Rights Watch. “Even with the world watching and with substantial resources at hand, the authorities proved unable or unwilling to conduct a serious investigation.”
“这份报告说明，墨西哥在应对近年来最严重的人权暴行方面，罪责确凿，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)美洲地区负责人何塞·米格尔·比万科(José Miguel Vivanco)说道。“即使全世界都在关注，手上又掌握如此多资源，当局还是没能，或不愿进行一场严肃的调查。”
Santiago Canton, the executive director of RFK Partners for Human Rights at Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights, said in an interview that “lives could have been saved and this could have been prevented.”
罗伯特·F·肯尼迪司法与人权中心(Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights)的人权伙伴组织执行总监圣地亚哥·坎顿(Santiago Canton)在接受采访时表示，“那些生命原本可以挽救，整件事原本可以免于发生。”
The report also suggested a possible motive — something that the government had not been able to establish with any specificity.
该报告还暗示了另一种可能的作案动机，而政府一直以来却未能在这方面做出详细解释。
The region around Iguala is a key source of heroin for the American Midwest, and evidence in a Chicago drug case showed that traffickers use long-distance buses similar to the ones taken that night to smuggle the drug.
伊瓜拉市周边地区是美国中西部海洛因货品的重要来源地，芝加哥一起毒品案的证据显示，毒贩用来偷运毒品的长途大巴与当晚被盗的大巴有些类似。
One of the five buses that the students took was not examined until months later.
学生们开走的五辆大巴车中，有一辆直到事发数月后才受到检查。
The panel rejected possible motives suggested by the authorities, including that some of the students belonged to a rival narcotics outfit.
专家组不认同当局提出的几种作案动机，其中一种认为有一些学生隶属于一个与作案黑帮有竞争的贩毒团伙。
At a news conference on Sunday evening, María de Jesús Tlatempa, the mother of one of the missing students, said, “We are the victims of our own government because they lied to us.”
在周日举行的一个新闻发布会上，一名失踪学生的母亲玛利亚·德·赫苏斯·特拉滕帕(María de Jesús Tlatempa)说，“我们成了自己政府的受害人，因为他们向我们撒谎。”