MEXICO CITY — Municipal police officers encircled the bus, detonated tear gas, punctured the tires and forced the college students who were onboard to get off.
墨西哥城——市里的警察围住了这辆大巴，施放了催泪瓦斯，刺穿了轮胎，迫使车上的大学生下来。
“We’re going to kill all of you,” the officers warned, according to the bus driver. A policeman approached the driver and pointed a pistol at his chest. “You, too,” the officer said.
大巴司机表示，警察发出威胁，“我们会把你们都杀掉。”一名警员逼近司机，用手枪指向后者的胸口，并说道：“包括你。”
With a military intelligence official looking on and state and federal police officers in the immediate vicinity, witnesses said, the students were put into police vehicles and taken away. They have not been seen since.
按照目击者的说法，一名军事情报官当时在旁观看，州级和联邦警员就在附近，而学生们被塞进了警车带走。然后他们就彻底消失了。
They were among the 43 students who vanished in the city of Iguala one night in September 2014 amid violent, chaotic circumstances laid bare by an international panel of investigators who have been examining the matter for more than a year. The reason for the students’ abduction remains a mystery.
2014年9月的那个晚上，有43名学生在伊瓜拉市失踪，他们即在其中。一个国际调查委员会对此事进行了一年多的研究，还原了当晚混乱的暴力场景。然而，学生们被绑走的原因仍然是个谜。
Despite apparent stonewalling by the Mexican government in recent months, the panel’s two reports on the case, the most recent of which was released on Sunday, provide the fullest accounting of the events surrounding the students’ disappearance, which also left six other people dead, including three students, and scores wounded.
尽管墨西哥政府最近几个月似乎进行了阻挠，但委员会对本案出具的两份报告对围绕学生失踪的种种事件进行了极为详尽的描述，最新的这份于周日公布。事件还导致包括三名学生在内的其他六人死亡，数十人受伤。
The reports describe a night of confusion and terror for the students and city residents, and a seemingly clinical, coordinated harvest by Mexican law enforcement officials and other gunmen operating in and around Iguala, in Guerrero, one of Mexico’s poorest and most violent states.
根据文中的描述，当晚对学生和伊瓜拉居民而言充满了困惑与恐惧，而对伊瓜拉城内外采取行动的墨西哥执法官员及其他持枪者而言，却似乎是一场干净利落的协调打击行动。伊瓜拉位于格雷罗州，而那里是全墨西哥最贫穷、暴力活动最猖獗的州之一。
The government said 123 people, including 73 municipal police officials, had been detained on organized-crime charges in relation to the night’s events, and the Mexican authorities have linked the Iguala police force to a powerful drug gang.
政府公布，有123人因涉嫌与当晚事件有关的有组织犯罪被捕，其中包括73名市级警察。墨西哥当局还认定伊瓜拉警方与一个强大的贩毒黑帮有牵连。
The 43 students were undergraduates at Escuela Normal Rural Raúl Isidro Burgos, a teachers college, in Ayotzinapa, with a history of activism.
这43名学生在坐落于阿尤兹纳帕的劳尔·伊西德罗·布尔戈斯乡村师范学院(Escuela Normal Rural Raúl Isidro Burgos)念本科。该校素有活动主义传统。
They were among about 100 students who headed out on the evening of Sept. 26, 2014, with a plan to steal some buses. This was a tradition that students at the school had done for many years: They would take the buses, use them to transport their peers to an event and then return them when they were done. The bus companies and the authorities mostly tolerated it.
2014年9月26日晚，包括他们在内的大约100名学生出动，计划偷走几辆大巴。这是该校学生进行了多年的一项传统：他们会开走大巴，用来运送同伴去参加活动，完事后再返还。公交公司和当局对此基本采取默许态度。
The plan for the outing that evening was to secure several buses to carry students to a march in Mexico City several days later to commemorate a student massacre that had occurred in 1968.
当晚行动的计划是搞到几辆大巴载着学生去墨西哥城，参加几天后举行的悼念1968年学生遭屠杀的活动。
Riding in two buses they had commandeered on earlier occasions, they stationed themselves on a main road on the outskirts of Iguala, planning to intercept a few buses.
他们乘坐早前征用的两辆大巴，来到伊瓜拉城郊一条主干道等待，计划拦下几辆车。
“All of us were happy, having a blast, relaxed, happy with the drivers, playing,” a student later testified, according to the panel’s first report. It relied on testimony from survivors, government security officials and other witnesses as well as reports from an interagency government command center.
“我们都兴高采烈，很开心、放松、跟司机有说有笑，玩玩闹闹的，”委员会在第一份报告中援引一名学生后来的证词写到。该报告取材于幸存者、政府安全官员和其他一些目击者的证词，加上政府跨部门指挥中心的多份报告。
But the region’s security forces were already onto the students’ plans. The federal police stepped up patrols near the buses, and the command center linking local, state and federal police forces, as well as the military, kept tabs on the students.
然而，那一地区的安全部队已经盯上了学生的计划。联邦警察加强了大巴附近的巡逻，而协调地方、州级和联邦警力的指挥中心与军方均在监控他们的行为。
At 8:15 p.m., the students made their first strike, boarding a bus that had stopped in front of a restaurant. The driver knew the drill; bus companies generally instruct drivers that in the event of a student hijacking, they should remain with the buses to ensure their safe return.
晚上8点15分，学生第一次出手，登上了停在餐厅门前的一辆车。司机很清楚这一套；公交公司一般会告诉司机，学生劫车的时候，他们应该待在车内，保证安全返还。
The bus driver said he needed to make a pit stop at Iguala’s central bus station. At the station, the driver surprised the students and locked them in the bus.
大巴司机声称，他需要在伊瓜拉巴士总站停留一下。到达总站的时候，司机做出了让学生意外的事情，把他们锁在了车上。
Around 9:15 p.m., the students in the two other buses arrived at the station and freed their classmates. The group commandeered three more buses, leaving behind one that had no driver. The five buses then left for Ayotzinapa, three heading toward Iguala’s northern beltway, two toward the southern beltway.
到了9点15分前后，另外两辆大巴的学生来到了总站，放了车上的同学。这群学生随后又征用了三辆大巴，留下了没有司机的那辆车。五辆大巴开始向阿尤兹纳帕进发，其中三辆驶向伊瓜拉的北环路，两辆驶向南环路。
Then the shooting began.
不久后，枪声响起。
Several police cars pursuing the three northbound buses started firing warning shots into the air. But the threat of violence did not deter the students.
追逐往北开的三辆大巴的几台警车开始向空中鸣枪，但威胁动用暴力手段并未让学生们动摇。
A group of them left the buses and started throwing rocks at a police car that had blocked their path until the car drove away. At another point, a student sneaked up behind a police officer and tried to disarm him. As other police officers came to their colleague’s aid, the student ran away, and a police bullet ricocheted and struck him, lightly wounding him.
有一群人下了车，开始往一辆堵在路上的警车扔石块，直到这辆车撤走。一名学生一度溜到一名警员的身后，企图卸除他的武装。随着其他警察来前来支援同伴，这名学生转身逃跑。警察的一枚子弹弹射击中了他，致其轻伤。
As the convoy resumed its northward course through the city, police bullets hit the buses. The students threw themselves flat on the floor but ordered the drivers to keep going.
随着三辆大巴恢复经由市区往北的行程，警方的子弹不时击中车身。学生们急忙爬到了地上，却命令司机继续前行。
Near the beltway, however, the police had blocked the road with a vehicle. Several students got off the buses and tried to lift the cruiser out of the roadway, but officers posted on the highway opened fire on the group, forcing the students to seek cover behind the buses. Investigators later counted 30 bullet holes in one of the buses.
不过，在环路附近，警方用一辆车堵住了路。几名学生下了大巴，试图将这辆巡逻车搬离路面。可是，部署在路上的警察朝他们开了枪，迫使学生躲到了大巴的身后。调查人员后来在其中一辆大巴上数出了30个弹孔。
As bullets flew and windows shattered, one of the students, Aldo Gutiérrez, was shot in the head. The first call to an emergency dispatch number was received at 9:48 p.m. Police officers shot at students who tried to rush to Mr. Gutiérrez’s aid.
子弹横飞、玻璃粉碎，学生阿尔多·古铁雷斯(Aldo Gutiérrez)头部中弹。打给急救号码的第一个电话在9点48分接通。警察对跑去援救古铁雷斯的学生开了枪。
Another student was shot in a hand; the bullet sheared off several fingers. He sought shelter behind a truck, where two police officers ran over to him, and kicked and punched him. A third student was struck in an arm by a bullet. Ambulance crews managed to retrieve the three wounded students and take them to a hospital, along with a fourth student who suffered an asthma attack.
又一名学生手部中枪；子弹削掉了他的几根手指。他躲到了一辆卡车后面，但两名警员跑过去，对他拳打脚踢。还有一名学生手臂中弹。救护车上的医护人员设法救下三名受伤的学生，加上一名发了哮喘的学生，把这四人拉到了医院。
“They all felt confusion, terror and helplessness,” wrote the panel, five lawyers and human rights experts from around Latin America.
“他们都感到困惑、惊恐、无助，”由来自拉丁美洲各地的五位律师和人权专家组成的调查小组写道。
At one point, the police made a group of students who were hiding in the third bus disembark and lie on the ground. About 10:50 p.m., they were taken away in six or seven patrol cars. They are among the 43 students who disappeared.
一度，警方让躲在第三辆巴士上的一群学生下了车，躺在地上。晚上10点50分左右，这群学生被六七辆巡逻车带走。他们都在失踪的43名学生之列。
Meanwhile, the two buses that took the southerly route had also run into trouble. About 9:40 p.m., just as the three-bus convoy was intercepted near the northern beltway, the police cut off one of the southbound buses, shattered its windows with tree branches and shot tear gas inside to flush out the passengers.
与此同时，两辆往南开的巴士也遇到了麻烦。晚上9点40分左右，就在三辆巴士组成的车队在北边的环城公路附近遭到拦截时，警方拦下了一辆向南开的巴士，用树枝砸碎玻璃，并投放催泪弹，迫使乘客下车。
The passengers were pulled from the bus and taken away: the rest of the 43 missing students.
里面的乘客被人从车上拽下来并带离现场：他们是43名失踪者当中余下的那些人。
Elsewhere in the city, the police had stopped the other southbound bus. The students on board, who had received word by telephone of the other attacks, got off the bus and fled into woods.
在城里的另外一个地方，警方拦下了另外一辆向南开的巴士，车上的学生已经从电话中得知其他人遇袭的消息，他们下车后逃进了树林里。
Elsewhere, on routes leading from Iguala to Ayotzinapa, at least two roadblocks were set up by unidentified gunmen, and one by police officers from the city of Huitzuco. Two civilians were wounded by gunfire at one of the roadblocks.
此外，身份不明的枪手至少在从伊瓜拉通往阿约辛阿帕镇的路上设置了两处路障；警方则至少在从维楚科城通往该镇的路上设置了一处路障。两名平民在一处路障附近被枪手所伤。