CIUDAD DEL CARMEN, Mexico — Every gas station in Mexico is stamped with the green-and-white logo of the state-owned oil monopoly, the economic lifeblood of the government. Oil Expropriation Day, commemorating the day Mexico seized control of the industry from foreign companies in 1938, is celebrated with speeches and even parades in some towns. An old song, “The Oil Worker Hymn,” credits oil with “saving our fatherland.”
墨西哥卡门城——墨西哥的每座加油站都打上了国有垄断油企的绿白标示。石油垄断是该国政府的经济命脉。人们用演讲来庆祝纪念墨西哥1938年从外企手中收回石油业控制权的“石油收归国有节”(Oil Expropriation Day)，在某些小城甚至还有游行活动。一首名为《石油工人颂》(The Oil Worker Hymn)的老歌赞扬石油“拯救了我们的祖国”。
But now, in what could be the biggest economic change in two decades, President Enrique Peña Nieto is on the verge of rewriting the Constitution to open Mexico’s oil, gas and electricity industry to private investment — a provocative move expected to lure international oil companies and expand North America’s energy supply while testing the grip oil has on Mexico’s soul.
可是现在，总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)即将修改宪法来向私营资本开放墨西哥的油气和电力行业。这一争议性举动有可能成为墨西哥20年来最重大的经济变革举措，预计将吸引国际油企的到来、增加北美的能源供应，并将考验石油对墨西哥灵魂的掌控力度。
“We must defend our oil,” Cuauhtémoc Cárdenas, a three-time presidential candidate and son of the president who nationalized the oil industry, declared in a television advertisement. The state oil company, he said, belongs “to all Mexicans, and we must not allow it to go private.”
“我们必须捍卫我们的石油，”曾三次竞选总统的夸特莫克·卡德纳斯(Cuauhtémoc Cárdenas)在电视广告中说。他的父亲正是将石油业收归国有的总统。他还表示，国有油企属于“全体墨西哥人，我们绝不能允许它私有化”。
The legislation, which won final congressional approval on Thursday afternoon, declares that Mexico still owns its oil. But it allows private businesses to drill for oil and natural gas in partnership with the state monopoly, called Pemex, or on their own, returning international oil companies to territory they were kicked out of 75 years ago.
相关立法于周四下午获得国会的最终批准，其中宣布，墨西哥仍将石油的所有权掌握在自己手中。不过，它允许私营企业或是与国有垄断油企墨西哥国家石油公司（Pemex，Petróleos Mexicanos的缩写）合作开采油气资源，或是自行开采，从而容许国际油企在被驱逐75年之后重返这片土地。
“They have been waiting for a long time for a true opportunity,” Jeremy M. Martin, director of the energy program at the Institute of the Americas, said of the oil companies.
谈到各大石油企业，美洲协会(Institute of the Americas)的能源项目主任杰里米·M·马丁(Jeremy M. Martin)说，“为了一个真正的机会，它们已经等待了很长时间。”
In a country where oil is often equated with sovereignty and national pride, the plan has set off furious debate. But while demonstrations helped thwart a more tepid attempt to open the industry in 2008, they were not effective this time — though there were some colorful moments.
在墨西哥，石油往往等同于主权与民族尊严，因此这项计划引发了激烈的辩论。2008年曾出现过开放石油业的更为温和的尝试，但由于抗议活动和其他原因，计划受挫。不过，抗议这次未能奏效，尽管其中不乏精彩瞬间。
As the lower chamber of the legislature argued over the change, one leftist lawmaker stripped down to his black underwear to suggest that the country was giving away its most treasured resources. The change must be ratified by just over half of Mexico’s states in order to become law. Mr. Peña Nieto’s party controls a majority of the states.
墨西哥议会下院就此项改革进行辩论的时候，一名左翼议员把衣服脱到只剩黑色内裤，以示国家在送出自身最宝贵的财富。改革方案还需获得墨西哥各州中一半以上的批准，方能成为法律。不过，培尼亚·涅托所在的政党已经控制了多数的州。
The goal, Mr. Peña Nieto’s aides say, is to stimulate Mexico’s sliding oil production and vault the country into the developed world by tapping vast pockets of oil and natural gas deep under the earth and sea. Foreign oil companies have quietly lobbied the government to open up for years. Pemex, short for Petróleos Mexicanos, is known for inefficiency at best and corruption at worst.
他的幕僚称，改革的目标是提振墨西哥下滑的石油生产，并通过开采地下和海底的巨大油气储备来将该国推入发达国家之列。多年来，外国油企一直在低调地游说墨西哥政府开放该行业。墨西哥国家石油公司的名声，说得好听是效率低下，不好听就是腐败。
The energy overhaul is the centerpiece of a series of changes Mr. Peña Nieto has pushed through this year with mixed results, including an effort to break up telecommunications monopolies, raise taxes and weaken the teachers union’s hold on faltering schools. His Institutional Revolutionary Party — which nationalized the oil industry in the first place, setting Mexico on its course toward industrialization — joined with conservatives who have long wanted the changes, casting off a weakened left.
全面的能源改革是培尼亚·涅托今年推进的一系列变革中的核心。这些措施包括，打破通讯行业垄断的尝试、增税，以及削弱教师工会对运转不灵的学校系统的控制，结果好坏参半。正是他所在的革命制度党(Institutional Revolutionary Party)当年开启了石油业国有化进程，从而将墨西哥送上了工业化的道路。这一次，革命制度党与长期希望进行相关改革的保守派联手，压倒了遭到削弱的左翼。
Opinion polls suggest that Mexicans are growing impatient with Mr. Peña Nieto’s agenda and do not feel the benefits, as economic growth has slowed and the violence he promised to tackle persists largely unchecked.
民意调查显示，墨西哥民众对培尼亚·涅托的议程日益丧失耐心，而且没有感受到有所获益，原因是经济增长放缓，而他曾承诺应对的暴力问题也基本未受抑制。
Mr. Peña Nieto is banking that the energy changes will inject new life into the economy. Other presidents have failed in taking on the oil monopoly, a lifeblood to government coffers and a touchstone for the left.
培尼亚·涅托希望能源改革会给经济注入新的活力。石油垄断是国库的保障及左翼的试金石，之前的总统从未能将之撼动。
“Oil has symbolic power in Mexico that it does not have in every oil country,” said Noel Maurer, a political economist at Harvard Business School. “Mexico has built up national mythologies that ‘the oil is ours.’ It’s like a flag-burning issue.”
“石油在墨西哥有着特殊的象征意义，并不是每个产油国家都是这样，”哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)的政治经济学研究者诺埃尔·莫勒(Noel Maurer)说。“墨西哥建立了一种民族神话：‘石油归我们所有。’这是事关国体的问题。”
Polls show that a majority of Mexicans generally oppose foreign investment in oil, but the passions may be fading. While schoolchildren are still taught about the nationalization of the industry, it is covered in just one page in the standard fifth-grade history textbook.
民意调查显示，多数墨西哥人大体反对外资进入石油行业，不过这种情绪或许在消退。虽然在校生仍要学习石油国有化的事情，但在标准的五年级历史课本中，相关内容只出现在一页里。
Even here in Ciudad del Carmen, where the discovery of one of the world’s largest oil fields at the end of the 1970s propelled the country to the top ranks of oil producers and turned this fishing village into a prominent oil town, the “it’s ours” passion has dwindled.
就算是在卡门城，“石油归我们所有”的情绪也逐渐减弱了。上世纪70年代末，这里发现了世界上最大的油田之一，推动墨西哥跻身产油量最高的国家之列，把这座曾经的渔村变成了石油重镇。
Foreign-run contracting companies are already ubiquitous here, providing a variety of services to offshore platforms and nearby wells. A common complaint is that the benefits of sovereign oil have been oversold.
这里已随处可见外资承包商，为海上钻井平台和附近的油井提供各种服务。经常听到的抱怨是，石油国有化的好处被夸大了。
“I laugh when I hear those arguments, ‘it’s our oil,’ ” said Enrique Sánchez, an engineer for a Pemex contractor. “I am still waiting for my payment.”
“我听到什么‘石油归我们所有’的说法就会笑起来，”为墨西哥国家石油公司的一家承包商工作的工程师恩里克·桑切斯(Enrique Sánchez)说。“我还在等着领我那份红利呢。”
Mexico has abundant oil and natural gas reserves, but they are increasingly difficult and expensive to reach, far below the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and trapped in shale deposits deep below the earth. New technology has unlocked those sources of oil and gas around the world, particularly in the United States, but Pemex has not kept pace.
墨西哥有着丰富的油气储备，但开采难度正在日益加大，成本也越来越高。这些储备深埋在墨西哥湾的水下，或是地底深处的页岩中。新技术使得世界各地的这种油气资源得以释放，尤其是在美国，但墨西哥国家石油公司没能跟上步伐。
It is an appendage of the Mexican government, heavily taxed to fund as much as 40 percent of the national budget. To keep that money flowing, almost all of its investments have gone to pumping crude for export. It is also an enormous source of patronage, creating fortunes for contractors with political connections, including the union.
该公司隶属于墨西哥政府，被课以重税，以支撑高达40%的国家财政预算。为了维持资金周转，公司几乎所有的投资都放到了开采出口原油上。它还是裙带关系的重灾区，让有政治关系的承包商发了财，其中包括工会。
The union leader, Carlos Romero Deschamps, is a senator and a rich man whose spending extravagances and those of his children regularly make headlines here. The legislation ejects the union from the Pemex governing board but maintains other privileges.
工会领袖卡洛斯·罗梅罗·德尚(Carlos Romero Deschamps)是个富豪参议员，本人和子女大肆挥霍的消息经常见诸报端。这次的法案将把工会排除在墨西哥国家石油公司的董事会之外，但保留了该组织的其他特权。
Some on the left worry that as more efficient foreign companies move in, Pemex may ultimately lose control over a growing share of Mexico’s oil and gas reserves.
部分左翼人士担心，更高效的外企进来后，墨西哥国家石油公司最终会丧失越来越多的油气资源的控制权。
“Pemex needs major surgery, not euthanasia,” said Graco Ramírez, the leftist governor of the state of Morelos.
“墨西哥国家石油公司需要大手术，而不是安乐死，”左翼的莫雷洛斯州州长格拉科·拉米雷斯(Graco Ramírez)说。
This city is already creaking under the growth, but a gold-rush mentality in anticipation of the new law is setting in.
增长之下，卡门城已然在承受着很大压力，而对新法案的期待带来的淘金思维又已降临。
“They’re already building three hotels, and many more people from other countries will be coming in,” said Nelson de Ganzer, who owns three Brazilian restaurants in town and has seen a surge of foreign workers among his customers. “This will be big for Mexico.”
“他们已经在建三座酒店了，还有很多其他国家的人要来，”内尔松·德甘塞尔(Nelson de Ganzer)说。在卡门城拥有三座巴西菜餐厅的他发现，客人中外国工人猛增。“这可是墨西哥的大事。”