Who seeks nuance in a side of rice and beans? Yet here it is at Lucky Luna, the rice faintly marine from an overnight soak and simmer in a broth of kombu and shiitake stems. The beans, too, are not the usual congealing muddle, but discrete drops of heirloom yellow-eyes, scented with coriander.
谁会品味一道用豆子和大米做成的配菜的细微之处呢？但是在幸运卢娜(Lucky Luna)餐馆，大米在昆布和香菇茎高汤中浸泡一晚、慢炖之后，微微具有海鲜的味道。用作原料的黄眼花豆也不是呈现常见的凝固糊状，而是带有胡荽香味的分散粒状。
This is the moment when Lucky Luna, possibly the only Mexican-Taiwanese restaurant in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, makes good on its hyphenated premise. Elsewhere on the menu, the two cuisines are neighborly but distinct: posole here, congee there, chips and salsa next to bok choy. Boundaries are for the most part respected, perhaps too much.
幸运卢娜可能是布鲁克林绿点区唯一的墨西哥台湾餐馆。豆子米饭是唯一将这两种风味结合在一起的菜肴。在菜单的其他地方，这两种菜系紧密相邻却截然不同：这里是墨西哥玉米炖肉汤，那里是中式粥，薯条和洋葱番茄辣酱旁边就是小白菜。界限在大多数时候是受人尊敬的，但这也许太过界限分明。
But that bowl of rice and beans, against all odds, intrigues. It shows that Lucky Luna has more ambition and finesse than its underdressed dining room and low-key, snackish, $10-and-under menu might suggest.
但是那碗豆子米饭克服重重困难，引起了人们的兴趣。它表明，在朴素的餐厅以及最高价格不超过10美元的低调小吃式菜单之下，幸运卢娜有着更高的抱负与技巧。
The chef, Howard Jang, cooked at Daniel, part of an eclectic résumé that includes stints at Danji (where Hooni Kim, another Daniel alumnus, applies French technique to Korean fare) and Mission Chinese Food in New York (which — coincidence or zeitgeist? — now has a Mexican offshoot, Mission Cantina).
大厨霍华德·蒋(Howard Jang)工作经历丰富，曾在丹尼尔(Daniel)餐馆工作过。还在纽约的Danji餐馆（蒋在丹尼尔餐馆的另一位同事胡尼·金[Hooni Kim]在Danji餐馆把法国菜的技巧应用到韩国料理中）和“使命中餐馆”（Mission Chinese Food，不知道是巧合还是潮流，这家餐馆现在有个墨西哥菜分店，名叫“使命饭馆”[Mission Cantina]）短暂工作过。
Mr. Jang gives Peking duck a French tinge, cooking duck leg confit and rendering the skin like bacon. In lieu of the traditional ultrathin pancakes, the meat (shredded) and skin (crumbled) come in hoisin-daubed bao buns, packed until nearly tumbling out, with a bed head of scallions.
蒋在北京烤鸭中融入了一点法国风味，做出了油封鸭腿，鸭皮做得像培根一样。鸭肉（切碎的）和鸭皮（撕碎的）不是卷入传统的超薄卷饼里，而是夹在加有海鲜酱和葱丝的烧饼里，馅料多得几乎要掉出来了。
A native of California, Mr. Jang subscribes to the notion of eating local. Accordingly, the bao buns are from Peking Food in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and the tortillas from Tortillería Nixtamal in Corona, Queens. The tortillas serve as vessels for what Mr. Jang calls “reverse” carnitas, in which the pork is seared first and then braised, rather than the other way around, so it arrives juicy and streaming. This is delicious, although I missed those magical charred bits that some may argue are the whole point of carnitas.
蒋是加州人，他赞成食用当地食物。所以，烧饼来自布鲁克林布什维克的北京食物(Peking Food)餐馆；玉米粉圆饼来自皇后区科罗纳的墨西哥玉米饼(Tortillería Nixtamal)餐馆。玉米饼用来盛放蒋所称的“颠倒法”墨西哥炖煎肉(carnitas)。蒋的做法是将猪肉先煎后炖，而不是传统的先炖后煎，所以他做出来的肉汁液丰富，热气腾腾。它很美味，但我还是怀念传统做法的那种奇妙的、微焦的口感，有些人可能认为那才是墨西哥炖煎肉的精髓。
Tortillas also stand in for Chinese pancakes in a take on moo shoo pork minus the pork, with fresh shiitake mushrooms subbing for dried wood-ears, grilled frisée for cabbage and salsa verde for hoisin. The result is neither Mexican nor Taiwanese, but merely, anemically, vegetarian.
玉米饼还代替中国薄饼盛放木樨肉，只不过这里的木樨肉里没有肉，而且用新鲜的香菇代替干木耳，用烤生菜代替卷心菜，用欧芹酱代替海鲜酱。结果做出来的既不是墨西哥菜，也不是台湾菜，只不过是毫无活力的素菜。
Apart from tacos, the only Mexican entree is an honorable if slightly delicate posole, made with a stock of duck bones instead of pig head. Pork shoulder is present, but the focus is the hominy, fantastically fluffy kernels (also from Tortillería Nixtamal) wisely left al dente.
除了玉米卷饼，唯一的墨西哥主菜是体面的、比较精致的墨西哥玉米炖肉，不过这里用的高汤是鸭骨汤，而非猪头汤。里面保留了猪肩肉，不过重点是里面奇特的松软的玉米仁（也来自墨西哥玉米饼餐馆），嚼劲适中。
The Chinese dishes are the strongest: lu rou fan, rice buried under ground pork that has been saturated with soy, rice wine, garlic and ginger, plain-spoken and primal; congee thickened with shredded duck and topped with a fistful of peanuts that have been braised rather than fried, yielding more creaminess than crunch.
中国菜还是最主要的：卤肉饭里的米饭藏在浸满酱油、米酒、蒜和姜的肉末下面，直接而原始；粥很稠，里面有鸭肉丝，上面撒了一把花生豆，花生豆是煮的，而不是油炸的，虽然不脆，却更加柔滑可口。
Desserts are small in scale, hinting at parsimony in the kitchen. Once more there is rice, this time cooked with a cinnamon stick and sweetened with dulce de leche, an escalation of the classic Mexican arroz con leche, which is made simply with condensed milk. The distinction does not quite elevate.
甜品的份量很小，暗示出厨房的吝啬。里面再次出现大米，不过这次是和肉桂条一起烹制的，用牛奶焦糖酱增加甜味。它是经典墨西哥大米布丁的加强版，完全用炼乳做成。这个特色并没有怎么提升这道甜品的味道。
Mr. Jang opened Lucky Luna in January with Ken Ho, who oversees the bar, and Marisa Cadena, who runs the floor. They raised $28,000 via Kickstarter to renovate the modest space, east of McGuinness Boulevard, which was formerly a pirogi-and-goulash joint.
幸运卢娜是今年1月份蒋和肯·侯(Ken Ho)、玛丽莎·卡德纳(Marisa Cadena)一起开的。侯负责吧台，卡德纳负责餐厅。他们通过Kickstarter网站筹集了2.8万美元，装修这个位于麦吉尼斯大道东段的简陋的地方，这里从前是个卖肉酥饼和菜炖牛肉的小饭馆。
The money could go only so far: The graffiti on the brick facade is real, not art directed. Inside, there are nods to Mexican folk art, with punched-tin stars as sconces and a clock engulfed in a flaming heart. But the lights are too bright, glaring off the glossy black tables and bruised-looking tile. The place could use a little soft focus.
那些钱也只够做到这样了：正面砖墙上的涂鸦是本来就有的，不是为了艺术效果专门画的。里面的装修向墨西哥民间艺术致敬，比如星星形状的钻孔锡制壁灯和被火焰心包围起来的钟表。但是灯光太亮了，反射到光滑的黑色桌子和有伤痕的瓷砖上，有点刺眼。这个地方可以用一点柔光。
I wished that the menu were closer in spirit to the restaurant’s logo, a mash-up of the Chinese character shou, which stands for longevity, and the eyelashed crescent moon from the Lotería (a Mexican form of bingo). Perhaps in time Mr. Jang will dare more.
我希望这里的菜单在精神上能更接近这家餐馆的标志，它把中国汉字“寿”和Lotería（墨西哥的一种宾戈游戏）中的人脸月牙结合在一起。也许蒋会及时做出更大胆的尝试。
For now, the excitement lies in unexpected details, like the house-made hot sauce, which starts off Chinese, with a strong hit of vinegar, and finishes Mexican, with a swaggering heat. It’s too bitter to eat alone. But add it wherever it’s needed, and suddenly everything flares into life.
目前，令人兴奋之处在于一些意想不到的细节，比如自制辣酱，它始于中餐，有强烈的醋味，止于墨西哥食物，有明显的辣味。但是单独吃太辣了。但是需要的话你可以把它加到任何食物中，立刻能化腐朽为神奇。