TOKYO —  It was the part of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant that spooked American officials the most, as the complex spiraled out of control two and a half years ago: the spent fuel pool at Reactor No. 4, with more than 1,500 radioactive fuel assemblies left exposed when a hydrogen explosion blew the roof off the building.
东京——自从两年半前福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)失控以来，这是让美国官员最为紧张的地方：4号反应堆的乏燃料池，在一次氢爆炸把建筑物的屋顶掀掉以后，里面容纳着的1500多个燃料组件就一直暴露在空气中。
In the next 10 days, the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, is set to start the delicate and risky task of using a crane to remove the fuel assemblies from the pool, a critical step in a long decommissioning process that has already had serious setbacks.
接下来的10天里，电站的运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）要执行一项精密而危险的任务，使用一台吊车将池中的燃料组件取出，在拆除反应堆的漫长过程中，这是一个关键步骤，而整个过程迄今已经遭遇了多次挫折。
Just 36 men will carry out the tense operation to move the fuel to safer storage; they will work in groups of six in two-hour shifts throughout the day for months. A separate team will work overnight to clear any debris inside the pool that might cause the fuel to jam when a crane tries to lift it out, possibly causing damage.
整个紧张的行动将由36名男性工作人员来完成，他们需要把燃料转往一个更安全的地方进行贮藏；所有人会分成六组进行轮换，每组两个小时，全程需要数月时间。还有另外一个团队要在夜间负责清理池内的碎片，以免吊车提取燃料时可能被这些碎片卡住，从而造成破坏。
“We are making our final preparations,” Naomi Hirose, the president of the company, known as Tepco, said at a news conference on Friday. “We hope to be done by the end of next year.”
“我们在做最后的准备，”东电总裁广濑直己(Naomi Hirose)在周五的一次新闻发布会上说。“我们希望在明年末能完成此事。”
The attempt to remove the fuel rods underscores the complicated, potentially hazardous work that lies ahead at the plant, which was crippled by explosions and by meltdowns in three of its reactors in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.
移除燃料棒的尝试，突显出电站需要做的工作是复杂且充满危险隐患的。这座电站在2011年3月的地震和海啸中有三座反应堆熔毁，再加上那里发生的爆炸，它遭到了严重破坏。
The operation addresses a threat that has hung over the plant since the crisis started. Though the fuel has cooled significantly since the early days of the crisis, and Tepco has shored up the reactor building, it is still dangerous to have the fuel high up in a damaged structure that could collapse in another quake, experts warn.
此次行动针对的是自危机发生以来一直悬在电站头顶的一个威胁。燃料的温度跟危机最初几天相比已经大幅下降，东电也对反应堆建筑进行了加固，但把燃料这样放在一座破损的建筑里终归是危险的。专家警告称，如果再发生地震，建筑可能会坍塌。
But removing it poses dangers, too. The fuel rods must remain immersed in water to block the gamma radiation they emit and allow workers to be in the area, and to prevent the rods from overheating.
但移除燃料也是有风险的。燃料棒必须浸泡在水中，将它们散发的伽马射线封住，这样工人才能进入现场，同时也要靠水来避免燃料棒出现过热。
Plant engineers will use a crane to lift the fuel assemblies from the pool and put them into giant casks of water. Each cask will be placed on a trailer and moved to a more secure pool at ground level. While some experts say the rods are now cool enough to pose no significant danger, others warn that serious problems could still occur.
电站工程师会使用吊车将燃料组件从池中吊起，放进一个装满水的巨型桶里。每个桶都会放在一辆拖车里，转移到在地面上的一个更安全的池中。一些专家说现在燃料棒的温度已经足够低，不会有太大危险，但也有人警告，还是有可能出现严重问题。
“There are potentially very big risks involved,” Shunichi Tanaka, the head of Japan’s nuclear regulator, said earlier this week. “Each assembly must be handled very carefully.”
“这其中存在着非常大的危险隐患，”日本核能监管机构负责人田中俊一(Shunichi Tanaka)本周早些时候说。“每个组件都需要非常小心地处置。”
Tepco hopes that a smooth start to the removals will help it regain at least some of the credibility it lost in its response to the quake and tsunami that overwhelmed the plant and in the cleanup.
东电希望燃料棒转移工作能有一个顺畅的开始，这样至少能挽回一点点公信力，在电站遭地震和海啸冲击后做出的反应，以及事后清理行动中的表现，已经令这家企业颜面尽失。
A string of blunders by Tepco — including vastly underestimating the potential for large amounts of groundwater to become contaminated and reach the ocean —has some experts wondering whether the company is up to the task.
经过一连串的错误——包括严重低估了大量地下水被污染并排向大海的危险——一些专家开始怀疑这家公司能否胜任这项工作。
Even minor problems with the fuel removal could strengthen calls for the decommissioning work to be taken out of Tepco’s hands.
在燃料转移过程中，哪怕是一些小问题也能加剧外界的呼声，要求东电把拆除反应堆的工作交给别人。
“All I can do is pray that nothing goes wrong,” said Yasuro Kawai, a former plant engineer who now heads a group that is independently monitoring the decommissioning process.
原电站工程师河合康郎（Yasuro Kawai，音译）领导的一个机构正在独立监查反应堆拆除进程，他说，“我能做的只是祈祷一切能顺利进行。”
He said much depends on whether the assemblies were damaged during removal — for example, if they were to be dropped — and whether such damage was severe enough to force workers to evacuate.
他说成败很大程度上取决于组件在转移过程中是否遭到损坏——比如如果出现掉落情况的话——还有破坏程度是否足以迫使工人撤离。
“If they drop a rod, will the situation be easily contained, or do we need to worry about a more dangerous chain of events?” Mr. Kawai said. “There are just too many variables involved to say for sure.”
“如果他们掉了一根燃料棒，整个环境就随时可能受污染，或者我们是不是要担心更危险的连锁反应？”河合康郎说。“变数太多了，很难说。”
Tepco officials said the removal plan has been vetted by the company’s engineers and outside experts, including the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the work will be carried out by a Tepco-led team and without external supervision.
东电官员说，公司工程师和包括国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)在内的外界专家对转移计划进行了审查。但是具体工作将由东电领衔的一个团队来执行，不会有外部的监督。
The company said it has taken extra precautions. The plant has been preparing for months, erecting a steel structure around and over the damaged reactor building and fitting it with a crane to lift the casks about 100 feet in the air. Underwater cameras will help engineers search for debris, possibly left from the original explosion, that might jam the assemblies, and a robotic arm will be used to try to remove any debris that does get in the way.
东电称它已经给予了加倍的小心。电站已经筹备了数月时间，在受损反应堆四周和上方搭建了一个钢架，在钢架上安装了吊车，可以将桶吊至100英尺（约合30.8米）的高空。水下摄像机可以协助工程师寻找碎片，这些碎片可能是最初的爆炸留下的，也许会卡住组件，然后他们会用一个机械臂来移除所有可能会挡路的碎片。
The crane is designed to hold its load if power is lost, and Tepco said it has doubled the cabling that will lift the cask — which could weigh as much as 90 tons once it is filled.
根据设计，吊车在失去电力的情况下也可以保持悬吊状态，东电说为了吊起水桶给吊车配备了双倍的绳索——这些桶满载后重量可达90吨。