THE FLU SEASON may be winding down, but it’s not too soon to start thinking about the next one — and what all of us must do differently if we are to avoid a repeat of the epidemic of the past few months.
季节性流感或许即将偃旗息鼓，但现在就开始思考下一波流感，同时探讨为了避免前几个月流感大爆发的情况再次上演，我们所有人应该做些什么，这并不算为时过早。
Up to 20 percent of Americans get the flu each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than 200,000 are hospitalized, and on average, 36,000 die as a result. These victims are not just the chronically ill or elderly: About 100 children die from the infection annually, and 20,000 are hospitalized. Most of these youngsters were perfectly healthy before this unpredictable virus struck.
据美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)介绍，每年有高达20%的美国人得流感。其中有超过20万人住院，平均有3.6万人死亡。这些人并不都是慢性病患者或长者：每年约有100名儿童死于流感引发的感染，2万人住院。这些孩子中，绝大多数在遭遇这种无法预料的病毒前健康状况良好。
Although most flu victims recover within a few days to two weeks, some develop debilitating, even life-threatening, complications: pneumonia, bronchitis, sinus infections or ear infections. Even after recovery, the flu can cause lingering postviral fatigue and weakness.
大部分得了流感的人都可以在几天到两周内痊愈，但也有些人会进一步患上令人衰弱不堪、甚至危及生命的并发症，比如肺炎、支气管炎、窦炎或耳炎。就算病情痊愈，得了一场流感，也会让人长时间感到疲惫虚弱。
Despite all this, only a minority of American adults, and fewer than one child in five, receive an annual vaccination, the best protection against the flu. Perhaps more people would get immunized if they knew all their options, especially the various kinds of flu vaccines now available and how to find local, low-cost or free sources.
尽管如此，仍然只有少部分美国成年人以及不到20%的儿童每年接种流感疫苗，而这是防御流感的最佳手段。如果人们都能清楚疫苗存在多种选择，尤其是了解现在市面上已有不同种类的流感疫苗，同时知道如何找到本地的低价或免费接种资源，或许就会有更多人愿意去接种疫苗。
It takes about two weeks for the flu vaccine to be fully protective, and the best time to get it is in September or early October, before flu season begins in the United States. But even after the flu becomes widespread or is on the wane (it can continue to make people sick until sometime in May), the vaccine can be protective.
流感疫苗需要约两周时间才能发挥全部的保护作用，所以接种的最佳时间是9月份或10月初，赶在美国的季节性流感到来之前。可是就算流感开始全面传播，或者已经渐渐平息（它的传染期要延续到五月份），接种疫苗仍有保护作用。
Four types of flu vaccine protect against the three variants of the flu virus — two versions of Type A and one of Type B — that experts expected to be the predominant culprits in the current flu season.
四种类型的流感疫苗可抵御三种流感疫苗的变型—包括两种甲型流感和一种乙型流感—专家预测它们是当前季节性流感的主力病株。
A fifth vaccine, which protects against four variants — two Type A’s and two Type B’s — has recently been approved and should be available later this year. An unexpected surge in a Type B variant that was not in this year’s vaccine caused many cases of flu this season and infected some people who had been immunized.
而在今年晚些时候，将会出现第五种疫苗，这种疫苗能抵御四种流感疫苗的亚型，包括两种甲型流感和两种乙型流感，近期疫苗已获得批准。今年一种乙型流感的变型突然爆发，而它并不在疫苗的主力病株中，这导致今年出现了许多流感病例，一些已经接种的人也不幸中招。
The traditional flu shot is an injection into the muscle, usually in the arm. It consists of killed viral particles that stimulate an antibody response in the body. Typical side effects are soreness or swelling in the injected arm and, in some people, symptoms that resemble the common cold: runny nose, headache, sore throat, cough or achiness.
传统的疫苗接种是进行肌肉注射，通常位置在胳膊。疫苗中含有灭活病毒微粒，可激发身体产生抗体反应。常见副作用包括接种胳膊酸痛或红肿，还有一些人的反应类似普通感冒：流涕、头痛、胭痛、咳嗽或身体疼痛。
A high-dose version of the traditional shot is available for people 65 and older, who typically have a less robust response to immunization than younger adults. The higher dose of antigens it contains can produce a more protective response from an aging immune system.
65岁以上长者相比年轻成年人，产生的免疫反应通常不够活跃，这部分人群可以选择更高剂量的疫苗。疫苗含有的抗原剂量越高，老化的免疫系统就能产生更强烈的保护性反应。
An intradermal vaccine given under the skin with a smaller needle is available for adults ages 18 to 64. It contains the same viral particles as the traditional shot, and is preferable for people who avoid immunization because they hate shots.
对于18至64岁的成年人，还可以选择皮内疫苗，用微针在真皮层内注射。皮内疫苗所含的病毒微粒和传统剂型一样，讨厌打针的人可以选择这种疫苗。
A nasal-spray vaccine, called FluMist, is licensed for people ages 2 to 49 who are healthy, not pregnant and not in close contact with people with compromised immunity. Unlike the shots, it contains live, weakened flu viruses that cannot cause the flu because they can’t reproduce in the human body. The nasal spray is ideal for children as well as young adults who are phobic about shots, although it may cause more flulike side effects, like runny nose, headache, fever, sore throat and muscle aches.
FluMist是一种鼻喷型的疫苗，已获准上市，适用于2到49岁、没有怀孕，且不需要和免疫功能不全患者发生亲密接触的人群。和注射型疫苗不同，这种疫苗里含有减活的流感病毒，不过由于病毒已无法在身体里复制，并不会让人们患上流感。鼻喷型疫苗对儿童和晕针的年轻人十分理想，不过它可能会引发更多类似流感的副作用，比如流涕、头痛、发烧、咽痛和肌肉酸痛。
Children under 9 who are receiving flu vaccine for the first time should get two doses administered at least 28 days apart, preferably starting as soon as the vaccine becomes available in the fall. The first dose primes the immune system; the second stimulates an immune response. Either dose can be administered as a nasal spray or a shot.
九岁以下儿童如果是首次接种流感疫苗，应分两次接种两剂，两次至少相隔28天，并且最好能在秋季疫苗刚刚上市时就立刻接种。第一剂是让免疫系统做好准备，第二剂则是刺激免疫反应。这两剂既可以是鼻喷型疫苗，也可以是肌肉注射型疫苗。
Some young children who were immunized in previous years may also need two doses this year or next because a particularly virulent variant, the 2009 H1N1 virus, was not in vaccines produced before the 2010-11 flu season.
前几年已经打过流感疫苗的儿童在今明两年可能仍需接种两剂，因为2009年的N1N1病毒是一种毒力特别强的病毒亚型，而在2010-11年流感季前制备的疫苗并不能抵御这种病毒。
The potential value of flu vaccine for women who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant was emphasized by a recent report from Norway, where researchers found a near doubling of the risk of fetal death among women who got the flu during pregnancy.
孕妇或计划怀孕的女性接种流感疫苗可带来潜在价值，这一点在挪威近期的一项研究中得到证实：研究者发现染上流感的孕妇，其胎儿死亡危险高了近一倍。
But some people should not be vaccinated: those with a severe allergy to eggs or who previously had a severe reaction to a flu shot; people with a history of Guillain-Barré syndrome that occurred after getting the flu vaccine (unless the flu itself poses a serious health risk to them); and babies younger than 6 months.
也有部分人不可接种流感疫苗，包括对鸡蛋严重过敏者，此前接种流感疫苗曾出现严重反应者，有格利-巴林综合症病史、在接种流感疫苗后发作的人（除非流感本身对他们了造成了严重的健康隐患），以及不满六个月的婴儿。
In addition, if you are moderately or seriously ill with a fever, you should wait until you recover before getting a flu shot.
此外，如果你患有小恙或重病并且在发烧，就应该等到康复后再打疫苗。
For help in finding a vaccine provider, use the vaccine locator at flushot.healthmap.org and enter your ZIP code.
想要寻找疫苗供应商，可在flushot.healthmap.org上使用疫苗定位工具，并输入你的邮政代码。
Experts agree that better flu vaccines are needed, and several possibilities are under development or awaiting government approval. But even with the less-than-perfect versions now available, the benefits of immunization clearly outweigh any risks, Dr. Thomas R. Talbot, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, said in an interview.
专家们都认同，人们需要更好的流感疫苗，目前已有几种可能的疫苗选择正在研发或等待政府批准中。但在采访中，范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)医学院的传染病学专家托马斯·R·塔尔伯特(Thomas R. Talbot)说，就算现有的疫苗不算完美，但它的免疫益处显然超过了任何可能会带来的危险。
Inevitably, some who are vaccinated will fall victim to the flu anyway. At the first hint of illness, go home and stay home. Avoid other people as much as possible, especially those who would be at high risk of serious illness if they were to catch the flu.
有些接种疫苗的人可能还是会被传染上。一出现生病的迹象，就应该马上回家，不要外出。尽可能不要接触他人，尤其是染上流感病情可能会恶化的高危人群。
Consider asking your doctor to prescribe one of the two approved antiviral medications that can help reduce the flu’s severity and duration. One is Tamiflu (generically, oseltamivir), available as a pill or liquid, and the other is Relenza (zanamivir), sold as a powder that is inhaled (it is not appropriate for people with respiratory disease). Both are taken for five days, and both can safely be used by children and pregnant women.
如果得了流感，有两种抗病毒药物能缓解病情程度和持续时间，可以请医生开一种。一个是达菲（通用名奥司他韦），剂型分为药片和混悬液两种。另一个是瑞乐砂（扎那米韦），为吸入粉雾剂（对患呼吸道疾病的人群不适用）。两种都需连续用药五天，对儿童和孕妇都是安全的。
The medications work best if started within two days of the onset of flu symptoms and should be given as early as possible to people who become very sick with the flu or face the possibility of serious complications from it.
如果能在流感症状初起两天内服用上述药物，疗效会最好，在病人的流感症状十分严重、或可能引发严重并发症时，也应及早用药。