WHAT’S the key to success in the United States?
在美国，成功的关键是什么？
Short of becoming a reality TV star, the answer is rote and, some would argue, rather knee-jerk: Earn a college degree.
除非你成为一位电视真人秀明星，答案还是老一套。一些人肯定下意识地声称：获得大学学位。
The idea that four years of higher education will translate into a better job, higher earnings and a happier life — a refrain sure to be repeated this month at graduation ceremonies across the country — has been pounded into the heads of schoolchildren, parents and educators. But there’s an underside to that conventional wisdom. Perhaps no more than half of those who began a four-year bachelor’s degree program in the fall of 2006 will get that degree within six years, according to the latest projections from the Department of Education. (The figures don’t include transfer students, who aren’t tracked.)
四年的高等教育将带来更好的工作、更高的收入和更幸福的生活，这种理念已经被灌输到学生、家长和教育工作者的潜意识之中。在全美各地的毕业典礼上，我们势必将再次听到这一老生常谈。但这种传统观点也有其阴暗面。根据美国教育部的预测，在2006年秋天迈入为期四年本科生涯的学生当中，仅有不超过一半的人将在六年内获得学士学位（这项数据不包括未被跟踪调查的转校生）。
For college students who ranked among the bottom quarter of their high school classes, the numbers are even more stark: 80 percent will probably never get a bachelor’s degree or even a two-year associate’s degree.
对于那些高中阶段的成绩位列全班后四分之一的大学生来说，这项数据则显得更加严酷：80%的人或许永远也拿不到学士学位，甚至连一个为期两年的副学士学位(associate’s degree)亦无法获取。
That can be a lot of tuition to pay, without a degree to show for it.
这就意味着，一些学生在支付了一大笔学费之后，没有拿到一个可予以证明的学位。
A small but influential group of economists and educators is pushing another pathway: for some students, no college at all. It’s time, they say, to develop credible alternatives for students unlikely to be successful pursuing a higher degree, or who may not be ready to do so.
一小群颇具影响力的经济学家和教育工作者正在推动另一条路径：有些学生根本没必要上大学。他们表示，是时候给那些不可能成功获取学位或不准备上大学的学生，开发一些可信赖的替代计划了。
Whether everyone in college needs to be there is not a new question; the subject has been hashed out in books and dissertations for years. But the economic crisis has sharpened that focus, as financially struggling states cut aid to higher education.
是否每个人都得上大学，这并非一个新问题；这些年来出版的各种书籍和论文已经对它进行了充分的探讨。但这场经济危机再次令这个问题成为各界关注的焦点，因为许多财政困难的州已经削减了对高等教育的资助。
Among those calling for such alternatives are the economists Richard K. Vedder of Ohio University and Robert I. Lerman of American University, the political scientist Charles Murray, and James E. Rosenbaum, an education professor at Northwestern. They would steer some students toward intensive, short-term vocational and career training, through expanded high school programs and corporate apprenticeships.
呼吁拓展替代路径的人士包括俄亥俄大学(Ohio University)经济学家理查德·韦德(Richard K. Vedder)、美利坚大学(American University)经济学家罗伯特·列尔曼(Robert I. Lerman)、政治学家查尔斯·穆雷(Charles Murray)和西北大学(Northwestern University)教育学教授詹姆斯·罗森鲍姆(James E. Rosenbaum)。他们认为，美国教育界应该通过增加高中教育项目和在企业实习等方式，引导部分学生参加短期强化职业技能培训。
“It is true that we need more nanosurgeons than we did 10 to 15 years ago,” said Professor Vedder, founder of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, a research nonprofit in Washington. “But the numbers are still relatively small compared to the numbers of nurses’ aides we’re going to need. We will need hundreds of thousands of them over the next decade.”
“跟10年到15年前相比，我们的确需要更多的纳米外科医生，”华盛顿非盈利研究机构大学学费与绩效中心(Center for College Affordability and Productivity)创始人韦德教授说，“但相较于我们未来需要的助理护士人数，这个数字依然相对较少。在未来十年，我们将需要数十万名助理护士。”
And much of their training, he added, might be feasible outside the college setting.
他进一步说，对这些人才的培养，或许可以在高等教育体系之外来进行。
College degrees are simply not necessary for many jobs. Of the 30 jobs projected to grow at the fastest rate over the next decade in the United States, only seven typically require a bachelor’s degree, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
许多工作根本不需要大学学位。美国劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)的资料显示，在美国未来十年预期增速最快的30种职业中，仅有七种工作通常需要学士学位。
Among the top 10 growing job categories, two require college degrees: accounting (a bachelor’s) and postsecondary teachers (a doctorate). But this growth is expected to be dwarfed by the need for registered nurses, home health aides, customer service representatives and store clerks. None of those jobs require a bachelor’s degree.
在增速最快的前十种工作中，仅有两种需要大学学位：会计（学士学位）和高校教师（博士学位）。但跟注册护士、家庭健康助理、客户服务代表和店员的需求量相比，它们的增量就显得微不足道了。这些工作都不需要学士学位。
Professor Vedder likes to ask why 15 percent of mail carriers have bachelor’s degrees, according to a 1999 federal study.
韦德教授想提出这样一个问题：联邦政府1999年进行的一项调研显示，15%的邮递员拥有学士学位，为什么会出现这种现象？
“Some of them could have bought a house for what they spent on their education,” he said.
“其中一些人本可以用他们上大学花的钱买一套房子，”他说。
Professor Lerman, the American University economist, said some high school graduates would be better served by being taught how to behave and communicate in the workplace.
美利坚大学的列尔曼教授表示，对一些高中毕业生来说，学会在工作场所举止得体、沟通自如，或许对他们更有好处。
Such skills are ranked among the most desired — even ahead of educational attainment — in many surveys of employers. In one 2008 survey of more than 2,000 businesses in Washington State, employers said entry-level workers appeared to be most deficient in being able to “solve problems and make decisions,” “resolve conflict and negotiate,” “cooperate with others” and “listen actively.”
对雇主进行的多项调查显示，这些是雇主最为看重的技能，甚至排在了学历之前。2008年一项针对华盛顿州2000多家企业的调查发现，在许多雇主看来，刚加入公司的员工最为欠缺的看来是“解决问题和决策”、“处理冲突和谈判”、“与他人合作”及“积极倾听”等方面的能力。
Yet despite the need, vocational programs, which might teach such skills, have been one casualty in the push for national education standards, which has been focused on preparing students for college.
然而，尽管用人单位有此需求，但在推行全国教育标准的过程中，传授这类技能的职业培训项目或许一直充当着牺牲品的角色。全国教育标准的重中之重向来是让学生为上大学做好准备。
While some educators propose a radical renovation of the community college system to teach work readiness, Professor Lerman advocates a significant national investment by government and employers in on-the-job apprenticeship training. He spoke with admiration, for example, about a program in the CVS pharmacy chain in which aspiring pharmacists’ assistants work as apprentices in hundreds of stores, with many going on to study to become full-fledged pharmacists themselves.
一些教育家建议彻底变革传授工作技能的社区学院体系，而列尔曼教授则主张，政府和雇主应该向在职实习培训项目投入一笔可观的资金。比如，他以赞叹的口吻提及CVS连锁药店的一个项目：许多怀有抱负的药剂师助理，以学徒身份在这家连锁药店旗下的数百家店铺工作，其中许多人在实习结束后继续深造，最终成为有充分资质的药剂师。
“The health field is an obvious case where the manpower situation is less than ideal,” he said. “I would try to work with some of the major employers to develop these kinds of programs to yield mastery in jobs that do demand high expertise.”
“医疗卫生领域是人力资源情况不理想的一个明显例子，”他说。“我将与一些大雇主合作，共同开展这类培训项目，以期实习生熟练掌握这些对专业知识要求很高的工作。”
While no country has a perfect model for such programs, Professor Lerman pointed to a modest study of a German effort done last summer by an intern from that country. She found that of those who passed the Abitur, the exam that allows some Germans to attend college for almost no tuition, 40 percent chose to go into apprenticeships in trades, accounting, sales management, and computers.
就此类项目而言，没有哪个国家拥有一项完美的模式。但列尔曼教授引用了一位德国实习生去年夏天就德国的做法所进行的一项研究。这位实习生发现，在通过德国高中毕业考试（Abitur，这项考试可以让一些德国学生几乎免费上大学）的学生当中，有40%的人选择在贸易、会计、销售管理和电脑等行业实习。
“Some of the people coming out of those apprenticeships are in more demand than college graduates,” he said, “because they’ve actually managed things in the workplace.”
“一些结束学徒期的学生比大学生更吃香，”他说，“因为他们已经拥有了工作场所的管理经历。”
Still, by urging that some students be directed away from four-year colleges, academics like Professor Lerman are touching a third rail of the education system. At the very least, they could be accused of lowering expectations for some students. Some critics go further, suggesting that the approach amounts to educational redlining, since many of the students who drop out of college are black or non-white Hispanics.
然而，在鼓励一些学生远离四年大学教育的同时，包括列尔曼教授在内的学者也正在触及美国教育体制的高压线。至少，有些人或许会指责他们降低了对部分学生的期望值。一些批评者甚至声称，这种方式无异于教育歧视，因为许多从大学辍学的学生都是黑人或拉丁裔人。
Peggy Williams, a counselor at a high school in suburban New York City with a student body that is mostly black or Hispanic, understands the argument for erring on the side of pushing more students toward college.
佩吉·威廉姆斯(Peggy Williams)在纽约郊区一所以黑人和拉丁裔学生为主体的高中担任升学顾问。她说，有些人认为在推动更多学生上大学这方面做得有点过头，她对此很理解。
“If we’re telling kids, ‘You can’t cut the mustard, you shouldn’t go to college or university,’ then we’re shortchanging them from experiencing an environment in which they might grow,” she said.
“假如我们对孩子们说，‘你资质不够，不应该上大学，’那么，我们就是在剥夺这些学生经历一种或将促使他们成长的环境的机会，”她说。
But Ms. Williams said she would be more willing to counsel some students away from the precollege track if her school, Mount Vernon High School, had a better vocational education alternative. Over the last decade, she said, courses in culinary arts, nursing, dentistry and heating and ventilation system repair were eliminated. Perhaps 1 percent of this year’s graduates will complete a concentration in vocational courses, she said, compared with 40 percent a decade ago.
但威廉姆斯表示，倘若她所在的弗农山高中(Mount Vernon High School)能够开设一个更好的职业教育项目，她更愿意建议一些学生离开为上大学做准备的教育轨道。她说，在过去十年间，烹饪、护理、牙科和采暖通风系统维修等课程被取消了。在今年的毕业生中，或许仅有1%的学生完成了职业培训课程，而十年前的这一比例为40%。
There is another rejoinder to the case against college: People with college and graduate degrees generally earn more than those without them, and face lower risks of unemployment, according to figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
还有另一条反驳远离大学的理由：美国劳工统计局的资料显示，拥有大学学位的人通常比没有上过大学的人挣得多，失业风险更低。
Even those who experience a few years of college earn more money, on average, with less risk of unemployment, than those who merely graduate from high school, said Morton Schapiro, an economist who is the president of Northwestern University.
西北大学校长、经济学家莫顿·夏皮罗(Morton Schapiro)说，平均而言，那些上过几年大学的人，也比仅仅高中毕业的人挣得多，而且面临更低的失业风险。
“You get some return even if you don’t get the sheepskin,” Mr. Schapiro said.
“即使你没有拿到一纸毕业证，你也会获得一些回报，”夏皮罗说。
He warned against overlooking the intangible benefits of a college experience — even an incomplete experience — for those who might not apply what they learned directly to their chosen work.
他警告那些或许不会将所学知识直接应用于所选工作的人，不要忽视大学教育（即便是一个不完整的经历）带来的无形收益。
“It’s not just about the economic return,” he said. “Some college, whether you complete it or not, contributes to aesthetic appreciation, better health and better voting behavior.”
“这不仅仅关乎经济回报，”他说。“无论你是否完成大学学业，上大学都有助于培养你的审美力，改善你的健康状况和选举行为。”
Nonetheless, Professor Rosenbaum said, high school counselors and teachers are not doing enough to alert students unlikely to earn a college degree to the perilous road ahead.
罗森鲍姆教授表示，尽管如此，在提醒不可能获得大学学位的学生警惕前方的危途方面，高中升学顾问和教师现在做得还不够。
“I’m not saying don’t get the B.A,” he said. “I’m saying, let’s get them some intervening credentials, some intervening milestones. Then, if they want to go further in their education, they can.”
“我不是在说，不要拿学士学位，”他说。“我说的是，高中毕业后，让一些学生先获得一些资质，取得一定的进步，然后，如果这些学生想进一步深造的话，他们完全可以步入大学校门。”