MOSUL DAM, Iraq — The two bodies lay festering in the midday sun on Tuesday, some of the only remnants of the Sunni militant force that until Monday night controlled the strategically important Mosul Dam.
伊拉克摩苏尔坝——周二，在正午阳光的照射下，两具尸体开始溃烂。这是逊尼派武装留下的少数痕迹之一。他们曾经控制了具有战略意义的摩苏尔坝，直到周一晚间。
Around them was the evidence of not just a fierce battle but also a different sort of fight: buildings reduced to rubble; cars churned into twisted metal; mammoth craters gouged from the road.
周围的景象说明这不仅是一场激烈的斗争，还是一场不同往常的战斗：建筑被夷为平地；汽车变成了扭曲的金属；路上出现了巨大的弹坑。
All bore testament to the deadly effect American airstrikes were having on the militants of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, who until this month were marauding over northern Iraq with little resistance and who two weeks ago seized control of the dam.
这一切都证明，美国的空袭给伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子带来致命打击。本月以前，该组织在伊拉克北部肆虐横行，几乎没有遇到阻碍，并于两周前控制了大坝。
It was not until President Obama authorized airstrikes by the United States military on Aug. 7 that the Sunni fighters’ advance was halted. Two days of concerted air assaults starting Sunday around the dam then paved the way for Iraqi and Kurdish forces to reclaim the site.
直到奥巴马总统8月7日授权美军开展空袭，才阻止了逊尼派武装向前推进。美国从周日开始在大坝周围进行了为期两天的协同空袭，为伊拉克政府军与库尔德部队重新夺取大坝铺平了道路。
On Tuesday, Kurdish military officials gave reporters a tour of the dam, to showcase Monday night’s victory and offer journalists a look at the facility. The dam itself, backed by a turquoise lake and surrounded by dun-colored mountains, was in fine condition, with little evidence of damage either from the fighting or from two weeks in militant hands.
周二，库尔德军队官员带领记者参观大坝，以展示周一晚间的胜利成果，并让记者察看了设施。大坝本身状态良好，背后是碧绿的湖水，周围环绕着灰褐色的群山，几乎看不出战斗痕迹或落入武装分子之手两周带来的破坏。
But about an hour into the visit, gunshots erupted from the western edge of the dam complex, as militants who were dug into the side of a neighboring mountain harassed a convoy of vehicles making its way up a hill to a secondary dam. A minor gunfight ensued, with the government laying down the majority of the fire from mounted machine guns and artillery. The hum of American aircraft — it was not clear what sort — was audible, though there were no airstrikes.
不过，参观了大约一个小时后，大坝地区西部边缘突然传来枪声，钻到周边山脉一侧的武装分子袭击了一支正在上山前往另一座大坝的车队。随后爆发了一场小规模枪战。通过车载机枪和大炮，政府军压制了大部分火力。尽管美军没有开展空袭，但仍能听到飞机的轰鸣声，但分不清是哪种类型。
After an hour of sporadic fire, the confrontation ended, and the convoy resumed its trip. The hundreds of Kurdish pesh merga fighters arrayed along the dam, proudly posing for photos and videos, scarcely moved. It was almost exclusively troops with the Iraqi Special Forces, at the head of the convoy, who engaged with the militants.
在经过一小时的零星交火后，对抗结束，车队继续上山。数百名库尔德敢死军(pesh merga)成员沿着大坝摆开阵势，骄傲地摆好姿势拍摄照片和视频，几乎没有前进。与武装分子交火的车队的前方人员，几乎都是伊拉克特种部队(Iraqi Special Forces)的士兵。
The pesh merga have received the majority of the credit for retaking the dam. But the Iraqi Special Forces troops who worked alongside them, who were created in the image of their American counterparts, have gotten far less attention. Known as the Golden Force, fighters interviewed Tuesday said they came from Baghdad and were called into the fight several days ago.
收复大坝的功劳主要被记在了敢死军身上，而与其并肩作战的伊拉克特种部队受到的关注则少得多。特种部队效仿美国的特种部队组建，被誉为“黄金部队”。战士们周二接受采访时说，他们来自巴格达，几天前被调集加入了战斗。
One Special Forces group, stationed by a cluster of homes close to the site’s power plant, said they were the first to enter the area after a series of airstrikes Monday afternoon. A cheery banner over the road passing by the enclave read “Tourist City in Mosul Dam.”
特种部队的部分士兵驻扎在了大坝发电厂附近的一片民房周围。他们说，在周一下午的一系列空袭之后，他们率先进入了这一地区。经过该地的公路上悬挂着一条欢快的标语，上面写着，“旅游胜地摩苏尔大坝。”
Muhammad Karim, one of the soldiers, said that when they arrived at the first abandoned militant checkpoint, they discovered a woman, naked and bound, who had been repeatedly raped. Farther into the neighborhood, the Iraqi forces discovered another woman in the same state.
穆罕默德·卡里姆(Muhammad Karim)是其中的一名士兵。他说，当他们抵达第一个废弃的军事检查站时，发现了一名曾遭到多次强奸的女子，赤身裸体地被绑着。进入这片区域后，特种部队又发现了一名处境相同的女性。
“ISIS are bad people,” he said, standing beside a demolished compound that hugged the road. “They are raping girls.”
“ISIS是坏人，”卡里姆站在紧挨公路的一处院落废墟旁边说。“他们强奸女孩子。”
Stories of women kidnapped by the militants have filtered through various minority communities, but Mr. Karim’s firsthand account, corroborated by colleagues interviewed separately, seemed to confirm the troubling rumors.
多个少数派社区对武装分子劫持妇女的消息都有所耳闻，但卡里姆的亲眼所见看起来证实了这些令人不安的传闻。单独采访的其他人也支持了他的说法。
After the women were turned over to the pesh merga fighters, the Special Forces began to clear the area, they said. The movement of the forces was coordinated with American air support, with bombs unleashed whenever the fighters met stiff resistance.
他们表示，在这些妇女被送到敢死军那里后，特种部队开始清理该地区。部队的行动得到了美国空中支持力量的配合。当战士们遇到顽抗时，就会有炸弹投下来。
Until recently, the militants enjoyed relatively free rein in northern Iraq and northern Syria, moving freely with vehicles and weapons seized from the Iraqi military units that had crumbled in the first days of the attack on Mosul and surrounding areas. But with the Americans now engaged, their freedom of movement has been sharply curtailed.
就在不久前，武装分子还相对自由地控制着伊拉克北部和叙利亚北部地区，凭借着从伊拉克政府军抢来的车辆和武器自由行动。在摩苏尔及其周边地区遇袭的头几天，政府部队就溃不成军。但如今，在美国的干预之下，武装分子的行动自由大大受限。