KIEV, Ukraine — Released from prison last month by the rebellious Ukrainian Parliament, Yulia V. Tymoshenko raced to Independence Square in Kiev to join the celebrations. But the appearance of Ms. Tymoshenko, a former prime minister, was curiously subdued, and not just because she was in a wheelchair.
乌克兰基辅——上个月，反抗政府的乌克兰议会释放了尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)。她一出狱就赶往基辅的独立广场(Independence Square)，加入庆祝的人群。但前总理季莫申科的出现却遭遇了意外冷场，这不仅仅是因为她坐着轮椅。
While the thousands gathered there welcomed her, the cheers were tentative, sending a message of appreciation for her suffering but also skepticism.
聚集在那里的数千人对她表示了欢迎，但欢呼声是有保留的，表明人们理解她的痛苦遭遇，但也有一丝怀疑。
“I, as a politician, repent,” she said, quickly sensing the mood. “Up until today, politicians were unworthy of you.”
“作为一名政客，我表示忏悔，”她很快察觉到了这种状态后说道。“到今天为止，政客们辜负了你们。”
As Russia cemented its hold on the Crimean Peninsula on Tuesday in a pomp-filled ceremony in Moscow, Ms. Tymoshenko emerged as a pivotal, if not beloved, figure in a nation that finds itself directly astride the East-West divide, forced to accommodate its muscular neighbor even as much of its population clamors for closer ties to the West.
周二，随着俄罗斯在莫斯科举行隆重仪式，夯实它对克里米亚半岛的控制，季莫申科一跃成为乌克兰的关键人物——虽说不见得受爱戴。乌克兰直接横跨东西分界线，尽管大批民众疾呼与西方建立更紧密联系，它却不得不迎合其强大的邻居。
Ms. Tymoshenko, 53, who is on her way back to Kiev after treatment for her back in Germany, is uniquely suited to both roles. She is a symbol of Ukraine’s blighted, corrupt, oligarchic past and its possible future. She is both heroine and villain, an architect of Ukraine’s rotten politics and its victim, too, having spent two and a half years in prison on what are widely considered politically motivated charges of corruption brought by her nemesis, the ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych.
现年53岁的季莫申科在德国接受背部治疗之后即将返回基辅，她格外地适合两种角色。她代表了乌克兰已遭重创、腐败丛生的寡头历史及其可能的未来。她既是英雄又是恶棍，她是乌克兰的腐败政治局面的缔造者，也是受害者。她在狱中度过了两年半，但人们广泛认为，对她的腐败指控是她的政敌、被赶下台的总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)出于政治目的而提出的。
While she may be tainted by her past brushes with power, she is expected to run for president, analysts say, though most doubt she can win.
分析人士表示，虽然过去的权力纠葛可能使她的形象受损，但她还是有望参加总统竞选，不过多数人对她能否获胜心存怀疑。
But that may not matter. Considered an excellent politician, realistic and intelligent, she already exercises enormous behind-the-scenes influence in the fledgling Kiev government and seems sure to remain a force in Ukraine’s politics for the foreseeable future. Shrewd, with a ruthless streak — the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, once called her “the only man in Ukrainian politics” — she, perhaps more than anyone else, will determine whether Ukraine can be cleansed of corruption and transformed into the Western-style state that the protesters of the Maidan, or Independence Square, have said all along was their ultimate goal.
但是，那可能没什么关系。季莫申科被看做是一名出色的政客，注重实际、有才智，对羽翼未丰的基辅政府，她已经在从幕后施加巨大的影响，并且，在乌克兰政坛可预见的未来，她看来仍将占据重要的地位。她精明并有着冷酷的特质，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)曾称她为“乌克兰政坛唯一的男人”。乌克兰未来能否清除腐败，能否像独立广场上的示威者要求的那样，按照他们的终极目标转变成一个西方式的国家，相比任何其他人来说，季莫申科也许更有决定权。
But it will be difficult to repair her image in a country that deeply distrusts its old guard. A presidential preference poll by one of Ukraine’s leading research institutions, SOCIS, put her third, at 9.7 percent, well behind Petro Poroshenko, 48, an oligarch known as the chocolate king, who is pro-European but politically independent, with 21.7 percent. Vitali V. Klitschko, the former boxer, 42, came second with 14.6 percent. The poll’s margin of error is 2.2 percentage points.
但在乌克兰，人们对旧势力极不信任，因此她要修复形象也会极为困难。乌克兰首屈一指的研究机构SOCIS做了一项总统候选人受欢迎程度的调查，结果显示季莫申科的支持率为9.7%，排名第三。要远低于现年48岁、被称为巧克力大王的寡头彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)。波罗申科亲欧洲，但政治上独立，他的支持率为21.7%。也低于42岁的前拳击手维塔利·V·克利奇科(Vitali V. Klitschko)。克利奇科以14.6%的支持率排名第二。这项民调的误差范围为2.2个百分点。
Vladimir Fedorin, former editor of the Ukrainian edition of Forbes, said that the Maidan protests were a “political awakening” for Ukrainians and that Ms. Tymoshenko’s blend of populism and patronage politics would no longer suffice to win an election. “It would be only fair for Tymoshenko to step off the political stage together with Yanukovych,” he said.
乌克兰版《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志的前主编弗拉基米尔·费多林(Vladimir Fedorin)说，对乌克兰人来说，独立广场的示威活动是一场“政治觉醒”，而季莫申科将民粹主义和裙带政治相结合的做法，已不足以为她赢得选举了。他说，“只有季莫申科和亚努科维奇一起走出政治舞台，才是公平的。”
The effective leader of the Fatherland Party, the traditional rival to Mr. Yanukovych’s Party of the Regions, she was the former president’s fiercest opponent, and yet she is considered to have been cut from the same cloth.
季莫申科是历来与亚努科维奇的地区党(Party of Regions)为敌的祖国联盟(Fatherland Party)的实际领袖，她曾是这位前总统最凶狠的对手，然而人们却认为他们本质上都是一样的。
Both thrived on a system of commercial and political intimacy and corruption, deeply dependent on deals with Ukraine’s largest businessmen, the oligarchs, and on complicated relations with Moscow. The two systems had become symbiotic: powerful leaders dominating compliant Parliaments and enriching themselves through oligarchs, who themselves manipulated the interconnections between Russia and Ukraine.
他们的崛起，倚仗的都是一个在商业和政治领域的亲密往来和腐败系统，严重依靠与乌克兰最有实力的企业家——寡头们——的交易，以及与俄罗斯政府的复杂关系。这两个体系已演化出共生关系：有权有势的领导人主宰着唯唯诺诺的议会，并通过寡头们为自己敛财。而寡头们也控制着俄罗斯和乌克兰之间的往来。
“Tymoshenko is ready to bend morals and values just as much as Yanukovych,” said Orysia Lutsevych, a Ukrainian analyst at Chatham House, a foreign policy research institute in London. “It’s why people said he had no right to judge her, because they come from the same gang.”
“季莫申科和亚努科维奇愿意在道德标准和价值观上做出的牺牲是一样的，”位于伦敦的外交政策研究机构皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的乌克兰问题分析师奥里西亚·卢特塞维奇(Orysia Lutsevych)说道。“这就是为什么人们说，他根本没有批评她的权力，因为他们的背景是一样的。”
Mykhailo Minakov, who teaches at the University of Kiev-Mohyla Academy, said that the short history of independent Ukraine is the competition between the presidency and Parliament. “Parliament has a mix of democracy and oligarchy, and the presidency, a mix of dictatorship and oligarchy,” he said. “We need to be rid of that, and if Tymoshenko wins, we will not.”
在基辅-莫希拉大学(University of Kiev-Mohyla Academy)任教的米哈伊洛·米纳科夫(Mykhailo Minakov)说，乌克兰短短几十年的独立史充满了总统和议会的较量。“议会中融合了民主和寡头政治，而总统也既有独裁又有寡头的一面，”他说。“我们需要消除这些，而如果季莫申科赢了，我们就无法做到。”
But she remains extremely powerful and is expected to play an important role. Not only are acting President Oleksandr V. Turchynov and Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk leading members of her Fatherland Party, but so is the powerful interior minister, Arsen Avakov, an oligarch from Kharkiv. And so is the new chief of the National Security Council, Andriy Parubiy, who was a commander on the Maidan and a member of Parliament.
不过，她仍然极有权势，被外界认为将扮演重要角色。不仅代总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)和代总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)出自她所在的祖国联盟的领导层，而且手握重权的内政部长、来自哈尔科夫的寡头阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)也如此。同样背景的还有国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的新主管安德里·帕鲁比 (Andriy Parubiy)，他之前是独立广场的领导人和国会议员。
Yuriy V. Lutsenko, a prominent opposition strategist who was Ms. Tymoshenko’s interior minister, described his vain efforts to get the new acting government to appoint powerful oligarchs with strong local ties as governors in the largely Russian-speaking east. For more than 24 hours, he said, Mr. Turchynov and Mr. Yatsenyuk mulled appointing party loyalists instead. Then he went to Ms. Tymoshenko. “It took her 15 minutes to understand, and she accepted it,” Mr. Lutsenko said.
曾在季莫申科内阁任内政部长的尤里·V·卢岑科(Yuriy V. Lutsenko)如今是反对派的重要策略师。他说自己曾努力劝说新代理政府，让他们任命有强大地方背景的权贵寡头担任说俄语为主的东部地区的州长，结果却徒劳无功。他说，在超过24小时的磋商过程中，图奇诺夫和亚采纽克始终都在考虑任命忠于本党的人。然后，他去找了季莫申科。“她15分钟就明白并接受了，”卢岑科说。
In Moscow, Mr. Putin views Ms. Tymoshenko as a Ukrainian patriot, but someone with whom he can do business. “She would never pretend she was anything but a coldblooded person with a thirst for power and money, and it’s easier to deal with such people,” said Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center.
在莫斯科，普京认为季莫申科热爱乌克兰，但是个可以打交道的人。“她绝不会掩饰自己是个有权力欲和金钱欲的冷血动物，跟这种人打交道要相对容易，”卡内基莫斯科中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)的主任德米特里·特列宁(Dmitri Trenin)说。
“It’s comfortable for us to work with Tymoshenko’s government,” Mr. Putin said in 2009. She was his favored candidate in 2010, while Dmitri A. Medvedev, then Russian president, favored Mr. Yanukovych. But it is indicative that Moscow found reason to be content with either candidate.
普京曾于2009年表示，“我们与季莫申科政府合作感觉良好。”2010年的大选，她是普京青睐的人选，而当时的俄罗斯总统德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)属意亚努科维奇。然而，这表明莫斯科对两个候选人都是满意的。
“This revolution may have done away with a regime, but not with a system,” Mr. Trenin said. “The leaders and Parliament are all the old faces, from the old system, and Tymoshenko was one of them.”
“这次革命或许颠覆了政权，但没有颠覆体制，”特列宁说。“领导人和议员都是出身旧体制的老面孔，季莫申科也是其中的一份子。”
For that reason, he suggested, Ms. Tymoshenko is more likely to play a background role. That view was echoed by Steffen Halling of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin, who said that she might choose not to run for the presidency until Ukraine stabilizes. The position is now weaker, he said, and “it could be a big risk for her to run and fail.”
他表示，正因为如此，季莫申科目前更可能扮演幕后角色。这一观点获得了柏林的德国国际与安全事务研究所(German Institute for International and Security Affairs)的斯特芬·哈林(Steffen Halling)的认同。哈林认为，季莫申科或许会选择，在乌克兰局势稳定前不竞选总统。他说，总统的职位如今遭到了削弱，而且“她参选却失败的话，可能会给她带来巨大的风险。”