HONG KONG — A finding by safety investigators suggested on Friday that pilots of the twin-propeller plane that crashed in Taiwan’s capital, killing at least 35 people, might have reacted to a stalled-engine alarm by shutting down the wrong engine.
香港——周五，安全调查人员的调查结果显示，在台湾首都坠毁的双螺旋桨飞机的飞行员，在对引擎失速警报做出回应时，可能关错了引擎。飞机失事导致至少35人遇难。
With both engines stopped, the suddenly powerless plane, TransAsia Airways Flight 235, which had just departed the Taipei airport a few minutes before 11 a.m. Wednesday, dived, clipped an elevated roadway and plunged into the Keelung River.
由于两个引擎均停止运转，突然失去动力的复兴航空GE235班机俯冲撞上高架桥，最终坠入基隆河。该班机在11点前的几分钟，刚刚从台北机场起飞。
The finding by Taiwan’s Aviation Safety Council, based on cockpit voice and flight data recorders, was preliminary and did not assign blame. It showed that the pilots had been discussing shutting down the plane’s No. 1 engine after the cockpit alarm sounded.
台湾飞航安全调查委员会基于飞机驾驶舱的声音和数据记录仪得出的判断，只是初步调查结果，并没有认定责任归属。调查结果显示，驾驶舱警报响起后，驾驶员开始讨论关闭飞机的1号引擎。
The plane’s No. 2 engine stopped just as power to the No. 1 engine was shut down, the Aviation Safety Council said.
飞安会表示，1号引擎被关闭后，飞机的2号引擎也停止了工作。
Thirty-five of the 58 people on the flight, bound for the outlying island of Kinmen, are confirmed to have died, including both pilots. Eight people were unaccounted for as of Friday afternoon.
飞机上共有58人，他们准备前往金门，包括两名飞行员在内的35人遇难。截至周五下午，还有八人下落不明。
The safety council said it would continue to investigate the cause of the loss of power to both engines. But aviation experts said the engine data suggested the pilots had misidentified which engine had malfunctioned.
飞安会表示，将继续调查两个引擎都失去动力的原因。但航空专家表示，引擎数据显示，飞行员没有正确判断失灵的引擎。
“They had a misconception about which engine failed, and they shut down the good one,” said David Learmount, the operations and safety editor at Flightglobal, an online publication that covers the aviation industry.
航空业在线杂志Flightglobal的运营和安全编辑戴维·利尔蒙特(David Learmount)说，“他们没有正确地判断出失效的引擎，关闭了运转正常的那一个。”
The pilot, Liao Chien-tsung, 42, has been widely praised for avoiding buildings in Taipei’s dense urban center as the plane, an ATR 72, plummeted. He had nearly 5,000 hours of flying time, including 3,400 on ATR 72s, and the co-pilot Liu Tse-chung, 45, had nearly 7,000 hours of flight time, including 6,500 on ATR 72s, according to Taiwan’s Civil Aeronautics Administration.
在这架ATR72型飞机坠落时，42岁的飞行员廖建宗(Liao Chien-tsung)避开了台北市中心的密集建筑，因此受到了广泛的称赞。根据台湾民用航空局的数据，他的飞行时数有近5000小时，其中驾驶ATR72型号飞机的飞行时数为3400小时。45岁的副驾驶刘自忠(Liu Tse-chung)飞行时数近7000个小时，其中驾驶ATR72机型的飞行时数为6500小时。
At 10:53 a.m., one of the pilots broadcast an emergency communication to the control tower. “Mayday, mayday. Engine flameout,” the pilot said, signaling a loss of power.
上午10点53分，其中一名飞行员向控制塔台发出了求救信号。这名飞行员说，“呼救，呼救。引擎熄火！”这意味着飞机失去了动力。
The black box recordings end a minute later, the agency said.
该机构称，黑匣子中的录音内容在一分钟后停止。
Dashboard camera videos from vehicles that were traveling along the elevated roadway show the ATR 72-600 narrowly avoiding buildings as it descends, then banking violently before crashing. The twin turboprop is capable of flying on a single engine, which has led analysts to conclude that it probably suffered problems with both engines.
当时行驶在高架桥上的车辆的行车记录仪拍下的视频显示，这架ATR72–600型飞机在下降过程中惊险地躲过了建筑，然后剧烈地倾斜，并最终坠毁。这架双螺旋桨飞机靠一台引擎就能够飞行，分析人士因此认为，可能是飞机的两个引擎都出现了故障。