The biggest shareholders of Club Med, the French resort operator, won over the company’s board on Tuesday with a sweetened offer as they prepare to take over the company for a big push in China.
周二，法国度假村运营商地中海会(Club Med)的几个最大股东用一个加码的出价打动了公司董事会，他们在接手公司后将向中国大举进发。
Fosun International, the investment unit of a major Chinese conglomerate, and its French partner, Axa Private Equity, said in a statement that they had raised their offer to 17.50 euros, or $22.95, a share from the 17 euros that they had offered on May 27. They also agreed to pay 19.79 euros for each of the company’s convertible bonds, up from 19.23 euros.
中国大型综合类企业复星国际的投资子公司及其法国合伙人安盛私募(Axa Private Equity)在一份声明中说，他们将出价从5月27日提出的每股17欧元提高到了17.50欧元（约合140元人民币）。此外他们还同意以每股19.79欧元的价格收购公司的可转换债券，而原先的出价是19.23欧元。
The new offer values the company at about 562 million euros.
按照新的出价，公司的估值约为5.62亿欧元。
The board said in a separate statement that it had unanimously backed the bid after studying a report by an independent expert that concluded the new offer fairly valued the company. Four members of the board, including the chairman and chief executive, Henri Giscard d’Estaing, are involved in the planned takeover and recused themselves from the discussions, according to the statement.
董事会在另一份声明中说，经一位独立专家研究后得出结论，新出价合理体现了公司的价值，因此一致同意了该交易。这份声明称，包括主席兼首席执行官亨利·季斯卡·德斯坦(Henri Giscard d'Estaing)在内的四名董事因参与了这项计划中的收购，因此在相关讨论中选择了回避。
Fosun and Axa, which along with Club Med’s top executives own 19.33 percent of the resort company, said they were ‘‘pleased that the board of Club Méditerranée, after acknowledging the amended terms of the offer, has unanimously considered it in the interest of the company, its shareholders and its employees.’’
复星和安盛与地中海会几名顶级高管加起来持有这家度假村公司19.33%的股份，两家公司表示“很高兴看到地中海会董事会在收到修改后的要约后，一致认为要约条款符合公司、股东和员工的利益。”
The investors want to take Club Med private to expand its focus on Asia, especially its offerings for Chinese tourists, who have become the biggest spenders in global tourism. The partners have proposed operating the company in a joint venture to be held 46 percent by Axa Private Equity and 46 percent by Fosun, with the remainder held by Club Med managers.
投资人们希望，将地中海会转为私有后开始实施其亚洲扩张计划，尤其是面向中国的游客，他们已经是全球旅游业中最具购买力的一个群体。合伙人提出以合资形式运营，其中安盛和复星各占46%，剩余的由地中海会的管理层持有。
The potential buyers say that having Fosun, one of the largest privately held companies in China, in a leading role will help smooth the roll-out of new resorts in Asia. And Mr. Giscard d’Estaing has said that creating a new ownership structure will create essential shareholder and management stability for the new undertaking.
潜在买家认为，让中国最大的私有企业之一复星牵头，有助于公司在亚洲推出新的度假村项目。季斯卡·德斯坦说，通过建立新的所有权结构，可以从根本上实现股东和管理层的稳定，进而开始新的事业。
Club Med has branched out internationally in recent decades, but has nonetheless been weighed down by the ailing European market. The company’s share price, which had languished for years, soared more than 20 percent on May 27 on the prospect of a buyout that represented a 23 percent premium over its closing price on the previous day.
地中海会在过去几十年里将业务拓展到了全球，但还是受到了不景气的欧洲市场的拖累。在有望被溢价23%收购的消息传出后，多年停滞不前的公司股价在5月27日的涨幅超过了20%。
After the revised offer, Club Med shares rose 2 percent, to 17.66 euros, in morning trading in Paris on Tuesday.
出价上调后，地中海会在巴黎交易的股票周二上午上涨了2%，达17.66欧元。
Some minority shareholders had argued that the original offer undervalued the company and questioned the rationale for taking it private.
一些小股东指出，原先的要约低估了公司的价值，并质疑了转为私有的合理性。
Colette Neuville, a French shareholder activist, told Reuters last month, that ‘‘the problem is that management will get an entry price into a holding that could fully take advantage of the progression of the share price, while other shareholders are being offered the same price, but to exit.’’
一位名叫科莱特·努维(Colette Neuville)的法国股东活动人士上月对路透社说：“问题在于公司管理层会得到一个入场价，这样持有的股份会从日后的股价上涨中获利，其他股东得到的价格是一样的，但却是被遣散离场。”
The revised offer appears to have won over at least some of the doubters. On Tuesday, three institutional shareholders — Caisse de Dépôt et de Gestion du Maroc, Rolaco and Holding Edizione Benetton — which together own about 14.9 percent of the shares — ‘‘decided to tender their shares to the offer,’’ according to the statement.
上调后的出价看起来至少打动了一部分持怀疑态度的人。公司声明中称，三家共持有14.9%股份的机构股东——摩洛哥储蓄管理金融机构(Caisse de Dépôt et de Gestion du Maroc)、罗拉科公司(Rolaco)和贝纳通控股(Holding Edizione Benetton )——在周二“决定接受这份收购要约。”
Fosun and Axa have said their offer is conditional on more than 50 percent of the shares being tendered. With those shareholders now backing the two main bidders, more than 34 percent of the shares have committed to the deal.
复星和安盛此前说过，要约需获得持有50%以上的股份的股东支持才能生效。在上述股东表示支持两家出价公司后，已经有超过34%的股份认可这笔交易。