HONG KONG — Fosun International aspires to be China’s answer to Warren E. Buffett’s investment firm, Berkshire Hathaway, and it wants to be sure everyone knows it.
香港——复星国际致力于成为中国的伯克希尔-哈撒韦(Berkshire Hathaway)，也就是沃伦·E·巴菲特(Warren E. Buffett)的投资公司。它还想让全世界都知道这一点。
On Friday, the Shanghai-based Fosun announced that it had won the bidding for Portugal’s biggest insurance company with an offer of 1 billion euros, or $1.4 billion, beating out the American private equity firm Apollo Global Management.
上周五，总部在上海的复星宣布，公司以10亿欧元（约合82.7亿元人民币）的出价赢得了对葡萄牙最大的保险公司的竞标，击败了美国私募企业阿波罗全球管理公司(Apollo Global Management)。
The deal is the latest, and biggest, in a string of global acquisitions by Fosun, which has investments in China that include real estate, pharmaceuticals, steel and iron ore production. Fosun has been rapidly expanding internationally in areas like retail — it reached a deal to buy a stake in the Greek fashion label Folli Follie in 2011 — resorts — acquiring Club Med last year — and insurance and reinsurance.
这是复星一系列全球收购案中最新的一桩，规模也最大。公司在中国的投资涉及房地产、制药、钢材与铁矿石开采行业，并已在零售、度假村，以及保险与再保险等领域进行了快速的国际扩张。零售方面，复星于2011年达成协议，收购了希腊时尚品牌芙丽芙丽(Folli Follie)的部分股份。度假村方面，则是于去年收购了地中海俱乐部(Club Med)。
Fosun is clear about what it wants to accomplish — and who it hopes to emulate — with the latest acquisition. It will give Fosun an 80 percent stake in the Portuguese insurer Caixa Seguros e Saúde, a state-owned company that is being privatized under the terms of the government’s bailout deal with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
对于这桩最新的收购希望达成的目标——以及公司渴望效仿的对象——复星直言不讳。它将使得复星手握葡萄牙保险公司CSS(Caixa Seguros e Saúde)80%的股份。基于该国政府与欧盟及国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)达成的援助协议，这家国有企业正在进行私有化。
‘‘This marks a solid step for Fosun to evolve into Warren Buffett’s model,’’ Fosun’s chairman, Guo Guangchang, said in a statement on Friday.
“这是复星向巴菲特模式发展实践进程中迈出的坚实一步，”复星董事长郭广昌在周五发表的公告中表示。
Fosun still has some way to go to catch up. In the first half of last year, it took in $3.1 billion; in the same period, Berkshire’s revenue was $88.6 billion. The Chinese company’s shares closed 5 percent higher in Hong Kong on Friday after the Portuguese deal was announced, but its market value still trails Berkshire’s — by nearly $280 billion.
要想迎头赶上，复星还有很长一段路要走。去年前六个月，公司营收为31亿美元（约合190亿元人民币），而伯克希尔的相关数据为886亿美元。葡萄牙收购案公布后，复兴国际周五在香港的收盘价上涨了5%，不过其市值仍落后于伯克希尔近2800亿美元。
Fosun is perhaps the most openly ambitious among Chinese companies that are looking abroad for investment opportunities. In the past decade, Chinese deal-making on foreign shores had taken on a distinctly mercantilist hue, characterized by large, state-owned companies acquiring companies controlling strategic resources to meet China’s growing demand for energy and raw materials.
在寻求海外投资机会的中国企业中，复星或许算是最为公开表露其雄心的一个。过去10年间，中国在海外的交易带有显著的逐利色彩，特点是大型国企收购那些控制着战略资源的公司，以满足国内对能源与原材料日益膨胀的需求。
Such transactions still take place, of course, like the $15 billion purchase completed last year by the state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or Cnooc, of the Canadian oil producer Nexen. But increasingly, it is private companies, not state companies, that account for most of China’s foreign investment, and they are focusing on companies outside the resource sector.
当然，此类交易如今仍在发生，比如国有的中海油去年以150亿美元完成了对加拿大油企尼克森(Nexen)的收购。不过越来越频繁发生的是，并非国企的私企占到了中国对外投资的大头，而且它们把重点转向了能源业之外的公司。
In the United States, for example, acquisitions by private Chinese companies overtook deals by state companies for the first time in 2012, accounting for 59 percent of total transaction value, according to a report published Tuesday by the Rhodium Group, an economic and policy research firm in New York. In 2013, the value of deals by Chinese companies in the United States doubled, to $14 billion, and private buyers again increased their influence, accounting for 87 percent of transactions by volume and 76 percent by value. Last year’s activity was bolstered by the $4.7 billion cash bid for Smithfield Foods by Shuanghui International, a privately owned company that is China’s biggest pork producer.
比如，根据总部位于纽约的经济与政策调研公司荣鼎咨询(Rhodium Group)上周二发表的报告，中国私企在美国的收购交易于2012年首次超越了国企，占到总交易额的59%。2013年，中国企业在美国的交易额翻番，达140亿美元，私人买家也再次扩大了自身的影响力，占到交易量的87%、交易额的76%。去年的活跃度因私企双汇国际的竞标而得以增强。这家中国最大的猪肉生产商提出以47亿美元现金收购史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)。
‘‘We expect Chinese interest in U.S. assets to remain strong in 2014 because of aggressive economic reforms in China, a more liberal policy environment for Chinese outbound investors and a positive outlook for the U.S. economy,’’ the Rhodium analysts, Thilo Hanemann and Cassie Gao, wrote in the report.
“我们预计，中国对美国资产的兴趣在2014年中将继续走强，理由是中国采取了积极的经济改革、中国的对外投资者面临更为自由的政策环境，以及美国经济前景向好，”荣鼎咨询的分析师蒂洛·赫恩曼(Thilo Hanemann)与凯西·高(Cassie Gao)在报告中写道。
For companies like Fosun, overseas acquisitions are almost always approached with an eye on how they can be leveraged to tap the huge and fast-growing domestic market in China.
对于复星国际这样的公司，海外并购的目的几乎永远是为了开发庞大且迅速增长的中国国内市场。
In the $765 million Club Med deal, for example, Fosun worked with a French company, Axa Private Equity — since renamed Ardian — last May to take over the resort operator with a plan to build its business in China. Club Med has already opened its second property in China since that deal was completed — a two-hotel resort that sits on 116 acres of land in a national park in the southern tourist hub of Guilin — and more resorts are planned.
例如，去年5月，在一笔价值7.65亿美元的交易中，复星与法国公司安盛私募（Axa Private Equity，此后改名为Ardian）合作，收购了度假村运营商地中海俱乐部，计划在中国建立业务。交易完成之后，地中海俱乐部目前已经在中国开设了其第二处产业——一个拥有两座酒店的度假村。该度假村坐落在中国南部的旅游热门城市桂林的国家公园里，占地47公顷。更多度假村正在规划中。
A list of other overseas deals executed by Fosun last year includes the purchase in October of One Chase Manhattan Plaza in New York from JPMorgan Chase for $725 million, a $55 million investment in the American women’s apparel brand St. John Knits in June and the $221 million takeover in May of Alma Lasers, an Israeli medical equipment manufacturer.
复星去年实施的大量海外交易还包括，10月份，从摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)那里以7.25亿美元收购了纽约的第一大通曼哈顿广场(One Chase Manhattan Plaza)；6月份，对美国女性服装品牌St. John Knits投资5500万美元；以及5月份，斥资2.21亿美元收购以色列医疗设备制造商飞顿激光公司(Alma Lasers Ltd.)的交易。
In saying the deal for Caixa Seguros moved it closer to Mr. Buffett’s model, Fosun was referring to its growing footprint in the insurance business. Berkshire Hathaway is a major player across the industry, including its ownership of the American auto insurer Geico and as the biggest single shareholder of the German reinsurance giant Munich Re.
复星说，CSS的交易使其向巴菲特模式又迈进了一步。这指的是，复星在保险行业不断增多的足迹。伯克希尔-哈撒韦是保险业的主要参与者，它拥有美国汽车保险商Geico，而且是德国再保险巨头慕尼黑再保险公司(Munich Re)最大的单一股东。
Fosun, for its part, has for years invested in the Chinese property and casualty insurer Yong’an. In 2012, it set up two new insurance ventures: a 50-50 joint venture with Prudential Financial in Shanghai called Pramerica-Fosun Life Insurance, and Peak Reinsurance, an Asia-wide firm that insures insurance companies and is partly owned by the International Finance Corporation.
对于复星来说，它多年来一直在投资中国财产和意外保险商永安。2012年，它建立了两家新的保险合资公司：一家是与保德信金融集团(Prudential Financial)在上海建立的复星保德信寿险有限公司(Pramerica Fosun Life Insurance)，双方各持有50%的股份；以及鼎睿再保险（香港）有限公司(Peak Reinsurance)。后者是一家为保险公司承保的公司，业务遍及亚洲，其股东之一是国际金融公司(International Finance Corporation)。
At a conference in Hong Kong in November, Fosun’s chief executive, Leo Liang, said the logic behind investing in the insurance industry was also a China strategy. The country’s banks sit on one of the world’s biggest piles of cash, with more than 100 trillion renminbi, or $16.5 trillion, in deposits. Ordinary Chinese save a relatively high percentage of their incomes against fears of future medical costs, which Fosun sees as a sign of demand for a host of new insurance products.
11月在香港的一个会议上，复星的首席执行官梁信军说，投资保险业背后的逻辑，也是一种中国战略。中国的银行坐拥世界最多的现金，存款高达人民币100万亿元以上。出于对未来医疗花费的担忧，中国老百姓的收入中存入银行的比例较高。复星认为，这代表着对多种新保险产品的需求。
Moreover, as the country’s financial markets liberalize, Fosun will have more options as to how and where it can invest its float — the money left over from insurance premiums after claims are deducted. Adding Caixa Seguros to the mix will broaden those investment options on a global scale.
此外，随着中国金融市场的自由化，在如何以及在何处投资其沉淀资金——保费扣除赔偿金后剩下的钱——方面，复星将有更多选择。收购CSS将会在全球范围内拓宽这些投资选择。
Analysts see the growth potential, but are worried about the debt that has resulted from Fosun’s global shopping spree. In a report published Tuesday, analysts at Goldman Sachs upgraded their rating on Fosun’s stock, to ‘‘neutral’’ from ‘‘sell,’’ but pointed out that 41 percent of the company’s debt was due for refinancing within a year.
分析师们看到了复星的增长潜力，但对复星的全球收购狂潮带来的债务表示担忧。在周二发布的报告中，高盛(Goldman Sachs)的分析师们将对复星股票的评级从“卖出”升级为“中性”，但同时指出，41%的公司债务在一年内将需要再融资。
‘‘We are still concerned about earnings risk in a rising interest rate environment due to Fosun’s highly geared balance sheet,’’ the Goldman analysts wrote. ‘‘That said, we believe the above negatives could be offset by fundamental improvement in its underlying businesses as outlined below. Should it execute well on its growth strategies in the asset management and insurance divisions, better investment return may help the stock to re-rate further in the medium term.’’
高盛的分析师写道，“由于复星资产负债表的杠杆率较高，在利率不断增长的形势下，我们仍然担心盈利风险。尽管如此，我们相信，以上消极因素可能会被以下列出的核心业务的根本性改善所抵消。如果其在资产管理和保险业务领域的增长策略得到了很好的执行，投资回报的改善可能会帮助其股票在中期获得进一步的重新评级。”