By any normal standard, economic policy since the onset of the financial crisis has been a dismal failure. It’s true that we avoided a full replay of the Great Depression. But employment has taken more than six years to claw its way back to pre-crisis levels — years when we should have been adding millions of jobs just to keep up with a rising population. Long-term unemployment is still almost three times as high as it was in 2007; young people, often burdened by college debt, face a highly uncertain future.
以任何正常标准衡量，金融危机以来所采取的经济政策都是个可怕的失败。的确，我们避免了大萧条的重演。但是，我们花了六年多时间，就业率才重新回到了经济危机发生前的水平——我们原本应该在这些年间创造数以百万计的新就业岗位，以满足人口不断增长的需求。长期失业率仍然几乎是2007年的三倍；往往背负着大学贷款的年轻人则面临着十分不确定的未来。
Now Timothy Geithner, who was Treasury secretary for four of those six years, has published a book, “Stress Test,” about his experiences. And basically, he thinks he did a heckuva job.
蒂莫西·盖特纳(Timothy Geithner)最近发表了一本名为《压力测试》(Stress Test)的书，讲述了他的经历。这六年间，有四年他在担任财政部长。总体而言，他认为自己极其出色地完成了任务。
He’s not unique in his self-approbation. Policy makers in Europe, where employment has barely recovered at all and a number of countries are in fact experiencing Depression-level distress, have even less to boast about. Yet they too are patting themselves on the back.
他的这种自我肯定并非独一无二。可供欧洲政策制定者吹嘘的成果更少。在欧洲，就业基本没有任何起色，而且还有好几个国家其实正处于萧条程度的困境中。不过，他们也在自我褒奖着。
How can people feel good about track records that are objectively so bad? Partly it’s the normal human tendency to make excuses, to argue that you did the best you could under the circumstances. And Mr. Geithner can indeed blame much though not all of what went wrong on scorched-earth Republican obstructionism.
面对客观上如此糟糕的记录，怎么能够感觉良好？某种程度上，这或许是因为人的正常倾向，去找借口，去辩解自己已经做出了各种局限下的最大努力。而且，盖特纳的确可以把许多问题——尽管不是所有问题——归咎于共和党“焦土政策”式的阻挠。
But there’s also something else going on. In both Europe and America, economic policy has to a large extent been governed by the implicit slogan “Save the bankers, save the world” — that is, restore confidence in the financial system and prosperity will follow. And government actions have indeed restored financial confidence. Unfortunately, we’re still waiting for the promised prosperity.
然而，还存在一些另外的情况。在欧洲和美国，很大程度上主导经济政策的是这样一种隐含的口号：“挽救银行从业者，就挽救了全世界”——也就是说，恢复了金融体系的信心，经济繁荣就会随之而来。政府采取的行动的确已经恢复了金融信心。不幸的是，我们依然在等待许诺中的经济繁荣。
Much of Mr. Geithner’s book is devoted to a defense of the U.S. financial bailout, which he sees as a huge success story — which it was, if financial confidence is viewed as an end in itself. Credit markets, which seized up after Lehman fell, mostly returned to normal during Mr. Geithner’s first year in office. Stock indexes rebounded, and have hit new records. Even subprime-backed securities — the infamous “toxic waste” that was poisoning the financial system — eventually regained a significant part of their value.
盖特纳的书用很大的篇幅对美国的金融救援进行辩解。他视之为重大成功——如果将金融信心本身当作目标的话，这的确是一种成功。雷曼兄弟破产后，信贷市场曾一度举步维艰，但在盖纳特当政的第一年里，情况就大体恢复到正常水平。股指出现反弹，而且创造了新高。就连次贷抵押债券——曾经毒害金融体系的臭名昭著的“有毒废物”——最终也恢复了绝大部分的价值。
Thanks to this financial recovery, bailing out Wall Street didn’t even end up costing a lot of taxpayer money: resurgent banks were able to repay their loans, and the government was able to sell its equity stakes at a profit.
由于这种金融复苏，救援华尔街的行动最终甚至没有花费纳税人多少钱：复苏后的银行有能力偿还借款，而政府得以售出股权，还获得了利润。
But where is the rebound in the real economy? Where are the jobs? Saving Wall Street, it seems, wasn’t nearly enough. Why?
然而，实体经济的反弹体现在哪里？工作岗位又在哪里？看起来，仅拯救华尔街还远远不够。原因何在？
One reason for sluggish recovery is that U.S. policy “pivoted,” far too early, from a focus on jobs to a focus on budget deficits. Mr. Geithner denies that he bears any responsibility for this pivot, declaring “I was not an austerian.” In his version, the administration got all it could in the face of Republican opposition. That doesn’t match independent reporting, which portrays Mr. Geithner ridiculing fiscal stimulus as “sugar” that would yield no long-term benefit.
经济复苏步履蹒跚的一个理由是，美国政策过早地“转向”，将关注点从就业转到预算赤字。盖纳特否认他对这种转向负有任何责任，反而宣称：“我不属于紧缩派。”按照他的说法，面对共和党人的反对，奥巴马政府已竭尽所能。这种论调与独立报道相左：在这些报道中，盖特纳曾嘲笑，财政刺激是不会产生长期效益的“糖果”。
But fiscal austerity wasn’t the only reason recovery has been so disappointing. Many analysts believe that the burden of high household debt, a legacy of the housing bubble, has been a big drag on the economy. And there was, arguably, a lot the Obama administration could have done to reduce debt burdens without Congressional approval. But it didn’t; it didn’t even spend funds specifically allocated for that purpose. Why? According to many accounts, the biggest roadblock was Mr. Geithner’s consistent opposition to mortgage debt relief — he was, if you like, all for bailing out banks but against bailing out families.
然而，财政紧缩并非经济复苏如此令人失望的唯一原因。许多分析人士认为，地产泡沫的遗留问题——巨大的家庭债务负担——对经济构成严重拖累。可以说，即使不经过国会批准，奥巴马政府本也能够采取多种措施来减少债务负担。但是，它却没有这样做，甚至没有支出为此拨付的专向资金。为什么呢？根据许多说法，最大的障碍在于，盖特纳始终反对减免住房抵押贷款的债务。这可以理解为，他全力支持救援银行，但却反对向普通家庭施以援手。
“Stress Test” asserts that no conceivable amount of mortgage debt relief could have done much to boost the economy. But the leading experts on this subject are the economists Atif Mian and Amir Sufi, whose just-published book “House of Debt” argues very much the contrary. On their blog, Mr. Mian and Mr. Sufi point out that Mr. Geithner’s arithmetic on the issue seems weirdly wrong — order of magnitude wrong — giving much less weight to the role of debt in holding back spending than the consensus of economic research. And that doesn’t even take into account the further benefits that would have flowed from a sharp reduction in foreclosures.
《压力测试》中强调，任何合理规模的按揭债务减免都不可能对经济有多少促进作用。然而，从事这方面研究的著名专家阿蒂夫·米安(Atif Mian)和阿米尔·苏菲(Amir Sufi)刚刚出版了新书《债务屋》(House of Debt)，其中的观点与之大相径庭。米安和苏菲在博客中指出，盖特纳在这个问题上的计算错得离谱——是数量级有误——在量化债务在阻碍支出方面的作用时，他赋予债务的权重远远低于经济学研究中的共识。而且他还没有考虑到，止赎事件大幅减少本可能带来的更多好处。
In the end, the story of economic policy since 2008 has been that of a remarkable double standard. Bad loans always involve mistakes on both sides — if borrowers were irresponsible, so were the people who lent them money. But when crisis came, bankers were held harmless for their errors while families paid full price.
说到底，对2008年以来的经济政策的描述一直带有惊人的双重标准。不良贷款必定涉及借贷双方——如果说借款人不负责任，那么向他们放款的机构也是不负责任的。可是，危机袭来时，银行从业者犯了错误能毫发无损，而普通家庭却要承担全部后果。
And refusing to help families in debt, it turns out, wasn’t just unfair; it was bad economics. Wall Street is back, but America isn’t, and the double standard is the main reason.
事实证明，拒绝帮助负债家庭非但不公平，而且也对经济极为不利。华尔街又回来了，整个美国却没有，其中的主要原因就是这种双重标准。