Earlier this month, the raspberry bushes on our property exploded with berries, thanks to the season’s big rains. Unfortunately, the backyard puddles that had harbored bug larvae exploded with life, too, so our berry harvest exacted a high price in mosquito bites.
本月初，我们屋外的覆盆子灌木丛结出了累累果实，多亏了这一季的暴雨。但不幸的是，后院那些藏匿了虫卵的水洼也焕发了生机。于是，我们为浆果的丰收，付出了被蚊子叮咬的高昂代价。
I’ve never much feared West Nile virus or even Lyme disease, despite our location in deer-thick Connecticut woods not far from Lyme. But with mosquitoes stalking the berry pickers, and with ticks infecting three friends recently with Lyme disease, it seemed a good time to make my yard less bug-friendly.
我从来就不怎么怕西尼罗河病毒(West Nile virus)，甚至是莱姆病（Lyme，由扁虱叮咬而出现的一种传染性疾病——译注），尽管我们住在鹿群密集的康涅狄格州(Connecticut)森林地带，与莱姆病相去不远。但由于最近蚊子对采摘浆果的人紧追不舍，而蜱虫(tick)已经让我的三位朋友感染上了莱姆病，眼下似乎是时候让我家的院子少招惹些虫子了。
I asked several entomologists for tips, including Dr. Roxanne Connelly, president of the American Mosquito Control Association; Lee Mitchell, the Toledo (Ohio) Area Sanitary District’s staff biologist; Ary Farajollahi, superintendent of the Mercer County (N.J.) Mosquito Control department; and Dr. Kirby Stafford, a deer-tick specialist with the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station.
为此，我请教了几位昆虫学家，其中包括美国蚊虫控制协会(American Mosquito Control Association)的会长罗克珊·康纳利(Roxanne Connelly)；（俄亥俄州）托莱多区域卫生管理辖区(Toledo [Ohio] Area Sanitary District)的主管生物学家李·米切尔(Lee Mitchell)；（新泽西州）默瑟县蚊虫管控( Mercer County [N.J.] Mosquito Control)部门的监督员阿里·法拉朱拉伊(Ary Farajollahi)；以及康涅狄格州农业试验站(Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station)的一位鹿蜱(deer-tick)专家卡比·斯塔福德(Kirby Stafford)博士。
Their counsel: Forget the shotgun strategy of checking your gutters or birdbaths for stagnant water. Fighting the newer mosquito breeds is a small-bore affair (read: labor-intensive) that leaves no bottle cap unturned. To control ticks, meanwhile, think about strategic landscaping and pay closer attention to mice, not deer.
他们的忠告是：别再去考虑那些“散弹枪战略”（shotgun strategy，通过大面积实施，以针对某个具体目标的战略——译注）了——什么检查你的排水沟啦，或看看小鸟戏水池有没有积水之类的。剿灭刚孵化出来的蚊子，这是一件“细枪杆儿”的事（也就是说：劳动密集型），不可放过任何一个没拧上的瓶盖。与此同时，为了控制蜱虫，得考虑一下有策略地清理环境，还要密切注意老鼠而不是鹿。
Research on West Nile virus and Lyme disease suggests that mosquitoes are less a health threat than ticks in the United States, but with this year’s record rains, mosquitoes have become an extreme nuisance for many.
对西尼罗河病毒与莱姆病的研究表明，在美国，蚊子对人类健康的威胁并没有蜱虫那么大。但由于今年打破纪录的降雨量，那些蚊子已经让很多人不堪其扰了。
“I may not get 60 service requests in a week during a peak year,” Mr. Farajollahi said. “Right now I’m averaging 60 per day.” Part of the problem is the spread of the Asian tiger mosquito over the last decade in particular. “Unlike endemic mosquitoes, this one thrives in container habitats,” he said. “Small buckets, bottle caps. Tires are notorious. It’s really changed the dynamics of mosquito control.”
“在纪录最高的年份，我整整一周收到的服务请求，可能也不到60次，”法拉朱拉伊说，“而现在，我平均每天可以收到60次请求。”部分问题在于亚洲虎蚊(Asian tiger mosquito)的扩散，尤其是在过去十年中。“与本地的蚊子不同，亚洲虎蚊在容器类的栖息地繁殖旺盛，”他说。“比如小桶、瓶盖。而轮胎更是人尽皆知。这的确改变了蚊虫控制的态势。”
Asian tigers have black-and-white patterned bodies and legs, and they are roughly a quarter-inch long. Females feed around the clock, and they bite animals and humans. As with any mosquito, it pays to hunt them before they can fly.
亚洲虎蚊长着带有黑白纹的身体和六条腿，身长大约为四分之一英寸（约6.4毫米）。母蚊子昼夜不停地猎食，叮咬动物和人类。但不管是什么蚊子，想在它们能飞之前捕获它们，都得付出代价。
In addition to keeping gutters free of clogs, Ms. Connelly said, homeowners should scan their property weekly, looking for the smallest rainwater collections. “You have to think beyond cups and bowls and pet dishes,” she said. “Think about cryptic habitats, like the little saucer beneath a plant.”
除了保持排水沟通畅之外，康纳利说，屋主还应该每周巡视一下他们住的地方，找一找最小的积雨处。“你得想一想，除了杯子、碗和宠物食盆之外的地方，”她说，“想想那些匪夷所思的栖息地，比如一盆植物底下的小托盘。”
Dump that water, she said. If you own rain barrels or other catchment systems, or if you live near sewer drains with stagnant water, Ms. Connelly suggested using larvicide. Products like Mosquito Dunks, which are made from granules packed into doughnut shapes, kill larvae with bacteria that are harmless to humans and animals.
倒掉那些水，她说。你如果有接雨水的桶，或者其它雨水贮留系统。或者，你如果住在有积水的下水管道附近，那么康纳利建议你使用杀幼虫剂。诸如Mosquito Dunks这种由小颗粒物组成、封装为面包圈形状的东西，可借对人畜无害的细菌来杀死孑孓。
Following her advice, two weeks ago I spent an hour inspecting my yard, and discovered that my property had become a major mosquito hatchery. Rain (and larvae) had filled two wheelbarrows, an empty garbage can, crevices in the tarp covering our woodpile and the seat of a toy car behind our shed. I dumped them all, sprayed the remnants with DEET-based repellent, then dropped a Mosquito Dunk into the sewer basin near my mailbox. While walking the dogs, I also snooped for obvious mosquito farms on neighbors’ properties, and found none.
遵循她的建议，两周前，我花了一个小时来检查自家院子，然后发现，我住的地方已经变成了一个大型蚊子孵化场。雨水（及孑孓）已经填满了两台手推车、一只空的垃圾箱，以及我们那堆木材上盖着的一块防水布的缝隙，和我们凉棚后面一辆玩具车的座位。我把这些地方的水都倒了，又喷上一些以避蚊胺(DEET)为基本原料的驱蚊产品，然后在信箱附近的污水槽中撒了一颗Mosquito Dunks。遛狗时，我还在邻居家的周围窥探了一下，看看是否有明显的蚊子养殖场。不过一无所获。
Next, I turned my attention to ticks. Mr. Stafford, the deer-tick specialist, said deer-proof fencing helps, since female ticks feed on deer before laying eggs. But mice often transmit Lyme disease to ticks in the first place, he said, so he suggested cleaning leaves and brush from woodpiles, stone walls and other areas that he deemed “mouse hotels,” to make such places less inviting.
接下来，我把注意力转向了蜱虫。鹿蜱专家斯塔福德说，挡住小鹿的栅栏会有帮助，因为母蜱产卵之前会叮咬小鹿。但他还说，老鼠会先把莱姆病传给蜱虫，所以他建议，把他称之为“老鼠旅店”的那些位于木材堆、石头墙和其它地方的树叶与灌木丛都清理掉，让那些地方不再那么吸引老鼠。
“Clean up the yard to reduce coverage, and have the landscaping a little more manicured right near the house,” he said.
“打扫院子，减少覆盖物，把房屋附近的景观布置得更加整齐干净一些。”他说。
He also said homeowners should place children’s play sets on the lawn instead of in the woods, and that any pathways in the woods should be widened generously to minimize the chance that a tick might latch on as you walk by.
他还说，屋主应该把孩子们的游戏场地设在草坪上，而不是树林里。还有，那些树林中的小径都应该大幅扩宽，让蜱虫在你经过时粘上你的可能性降到最低。
I followed his advice, including his suggestion to put my clothes in the dryer for an hour immediately after yard work, even if I didn’t have time to clean them. “Ticks can survive the wash, but not the dryer,” he said.
我听从了他的建议，包括在院子里干完活，哪怕没时间洗衣服，也应该立刻把它们放进烘干机烘一个小时。“蜱虫能在水中生存，但烘干机不行，”他说。
Knowing that my yard would always host at least some ticks and mosquitoes, I turned my attention to repellents.
在得知我的院子里总会藏着一些蜱虫和蚊子后，我便把注意力转向了驱虫剂。
First, though, I checked the results of my larvae-killing activities two weeks earlier. During two 30-minute walks around my property in windless conditions at noon and dusk, I was bit three times in all. Previously, we had been swarmed.
不过，我首先检查了两周前清剿孑孓的劳动成果。在一个没有风的中午和黄昏，我各花了半个小时，绕着住处走了两趟，路上一共被咬了三次。倘若在以前，我们早就被包围在虫群里了。
Meanwhile, there was no way to determine if my landscaping work had helped with ticks, but I’ll take it on faith that it did.
不过在此期间，我们无法确定，清理院子的工作是否对蜱虫也起到了作用。但我宁愿相信这确实有用。
With fewer bugs to fend off at home, I traveled to a mosquito- and tick-infested marsh to test several repellents that Ms. Connelly suggested. DEET’s effectiveness is rarely questioned, but the chemical still makes some people uncomfortable, so I concentrated on DEET-free options.
家里要驱赶的虫子减少后，我就到遍布蚊子和蜱虫的沼泽走了一趟，想试试看康纳利推荐的那几种驱虫剂。避蚊胺驱虫剂的效果鲜有人质疑，但这种化学物品依然会让一些人不舒服，所以我关注的是一些不含避蚊胺的产品。
At dusk on a windless evening, I stepped into the marsh area and was instantly buzzed by mosquitoes, so I turned on a ThermaCell bug-repellent lamp. The device covers a 15- by 15-foot area with a chemical vapor (d-cis/trans allethrin 21.97 percent) that is the same used in the Off! PowerPad Lamp. The ThermaCell repelled mosquitoes, but it can’t be used around food or drinks. As its label warned, the vapor bothered my eyes slightly.
在一个无风的夜晚，薄暮时分，我走入这片沼泽区，立刻有蚊子嗡嗡地飞了过来。于是我打开一盏ThermaCell驱虫灯。该设备可以释放出一种化学雾气（浓度21.97%的右旋丙烯菊酯），覆盖一片面积为15x15英尺（约4.6x4.6米）的区域，这种雾气与Off! PowerPad灯里用的一样。这盏ThermaCell灯可以驱蚊，但不能在食物或酒水附近使用。正如灯上的标签所警示的那样，这种雾气让我的眼睛有些不适。
Slightly less effective was the Off! Clip-On mosquito repellent, which emits a Metofluthrin vapor. This, too, is only for stationary, non-meal activities. The label’s precautions advised, among other things, to “avoid breathing vapor” and to “avoid contact with clothing.” But I found these precautions difficult to heed, given that the product clipped to my clothes and diffused a vapor that surrounded me.
而Off! Clip-On驱蚊灯的效力稍弱，它能释放出一种甲氧苄氟菊酯(Metofluthrin)雾气。这盏灯也仅供驻留使用，不可用于饮食活动。在标签上的若干条预警提示当中，包括“避免吸入雾气”和“避免接触衣物”。但鉴于这件产品是夹在我衣服上的，而且散发出一种围绕着我的雾气，我发现，预警中的这些提示都很难做到。
I next tried Permethrin-based repellents that are applied to clothing and gear, like Sawyer’s Premium insect repellent, which comes in a 24-ounce trigger-spray bottle and a 9-ounce aerosol spray for $9. After one’s clothing is coated with the (odorless) spray and left to dry, the clothes remain repellent to mosquitoes, ticks and other insects through six washes.
我接着试用了以二氯苯醚菊酯(Permethrin)为基础原料、用于衣物和装备上的驱蚊用品，如Sawyer公司的Premium昆虫驱除剂。这件产品提供一个24盎司（约680克）的喷瓶和一份9盎司（约255克）的喷剂，售价9美元（约合人民币56元）。只要你的衣服被喷上一层这种（无味的）喷雾剂，并放着晾干，那么在清洗六次期间，这些衣物一直都能驱除蚊子、蜱虫和其它昆虫。
Sawyer recommended using three ounces per garment, but the trigger-spray bottle was, for me, gloriously ineffective. The applicator distributed an uneven spray, and the applicator head dripped Permethrin so liberally that it ran off the pump and onto my hands. (Obeying the warning label, I rinsed with water for at least 15 minutes.)
Sawyer公司建议每件衣服使用3盎司（约85克）的喷剂，但对我来说，这个扳扣式喷瓶万般难用。那个喷嘴喷出一种不均匀的雾气，喷头还会肆意滴落二氯苯醚菊酯，以至于这种液体流下喷筒，落在了我的两只手上（遵循该产品的警示标签，我用水冲洗了至少15分钟。）。
I used at least 13 ounces of spray on a long-sleeve shirt, pants and socks, leaving me with enough Permethrin to recoat the outfit once more if I applied it perfectly.
我在一件长袖衬衫、一条裤子和一双袜子上至少喷了13盎司（约369克）的喷剂，而滴落的二氯苯醚菊酯足够把这套衣服再喷一遍了，假如我能操作得当的话。
That outfit repelled mosquitoes and, presumably, ticks. But if I worked in the woods regularly, or were headed to, say, Alaska, I would use the spray only for camping gear. For clothing, I would buy Permethrin-based garments from Insect Shield. The Permethrin never washes out, and in my tests I found the clothes fit well and repelled bugs completely.
那套衣服不但可以驱蚊，而且很有可能也会驱除蜱虫。但如果我常在树林里工作，或正在前往阿拉斯加的途中，那么我只会在露营的装备上使用这种喷剂。至于衣物，我会买Insect Shield公司出品的含有二氯苯醚菊酯的衣服。这种二氯苯醚菊酯永远洗不掉，而在我的测试中，我发现这些衣服穿起来很合身，并且完全能够驱虫。
For a more natural choice, Ms. Connelly recommended lemon eucalyptus oil instead of citronella. Her advice worked great when my wife and I dined with friends at an outdoor barbecue restaurant that’s notorious for mosquitoes. We relied on Bug Me Not, by Herb Garden Naturals, which was recommended by a clerk at a local health-food store, and we were unmolested for two solid hours.
要选择更加天然的方式，康纳利推荐使用柠檬桉树油，而不是香茅油。那次，我带着妻子在蚊子多得出名的一家户外烧烤餐馆与朋友们一起吃饭，康纳利的建议就很管用。我们用的是Herb Garden Naturals公司出品的Bug Me Not，这是当地一家保健食品商店的员工推荐的。随后，我们在整整两个小时的过程中，没有受到任何蚊虫的干扰。
Assuming you are near an electrical outlet, a fan may also help. Research published in the Journal of Medical Entomology in 2003 found that a fan was effective in repelling mosquitoes.
假设你旁边有插座的话，那么一台风扇也会有所帮助。2003年在《医学昆虫学杂志》(Journal of Medical Entomology)上发表的一项研究表明，风扇在驱蚊中很有作用。
I sat in our yard for an hour at dusk with my son, Luca, and a 42-inch oscillating vertical fan four feet away. Each of the six times a mosquito landed on us, we turned on the fan and the bug flew away. Perhaps more important, when the fan was on, no mosquitoes approached us.
在一个黄昏，我和儿子卢卡(Luca)在我们家的院子里坐了一个小时，而4英尺（约1.2米）之外就是一台42英寸（约1米）高的立式摇头风扇。一只蚊子在我们身上着陆了六次，但每次我们都打开了风扇，然后它就飞走了。可能更重要的是，当风扇开着的时候，没有蚊子能接近我们。
My panelists were largely dubious about mosquito traps like the Mosquito Magnet. “One in your backyard won’t make a difference,” Ms. Connelly said, “and if you’re out there with the trap, you’ll still be way more attractive to the mosquitoes.”
我的专家组成员们对“灭蚊磁”(Mosquito Magnet)之类的捕蚊产品基本上都半信半疑。“你在院子里放一个也没什么作用，”康纳利说，“而且就算你在捕蚊器的旁边，对蚊子更有吸引力的依然是你。”
I tried the propane-powered Mosquito Magnet and saw no immediate results. But I had already put a significant dent in my mosquito population, and the company says the device shows the most benefits after one month of use.
我试用了以丙烷为燃料的“灭蚊磁”，没看见什么立竿见影的效果。但我已经大幅减少了蚊子的数量，而且这家公司说，该产品要在使用后一个月，才能体现出最大益处。
Alas, one thing that’s “notoriously ineffective,” Mr. Mitchell said, is the electrocution trap. “A very tiny percentage of what they kill are mosquitoes,” he said. “But a lot of folks just want that satisfaction of killing a bug.”
啊，还有一件东西是“出了名地没用，”米切尔说，那就是电刑灭蚊器(electrocution trap)。“这件产品杀死的蚊子，只是它所杀掉的昆虫当中非常微小的一部分，”他说，“但许多伙计们想要的，就是那种杀死一只虫子的满足感。”