Japan’s public broadcaster on Tuesday accidentally sent news alerts that North Korea had launched a missile and that citizens should take shelter — just days after the government of Hawaii had sent a similar warning to its citizens.
周二，日本公共广播机构不慎发布了一则警报消息，称朝鲜已发射一枚导弹，居民需寻找掩蔽所——夏威夷政府几天以前才向居民发送过类似警报。
The broadcaster, NHK, corrected itself five minutes later and apologized for the error on its evening news. The initial texts cited J-Alert, a system used by the government to issue warnings to its citizens about missiles, tsunamis and other natural disasters. But NHK later said that the system was not to blame for the false alarm.
广播机构日本放送协会(NHK)在5分钟后便更正了自己的错误，并在晚间新闻上为这个错误消息致歉。最初的几则短信来自“日本全国瞬时警报系统”(J-Alert)，政府使用该系统向公民发送导弹、海啸及其他自然灾害的警报。但NHK随后表示错误警报的责任不在系统。
Makoto Sasaki, a spokesman for NHK, apologized, saying that “staff had mistakenly operated the equipment to deliver news alerts over the internet.”
NHK的一位发言人佐佐木诚（Makoto Sasaki，音）作出道歉，并表示“是员工操作设备失误向全网发送了警报消息。”
The broadcaster’s swift rectification of its error stands in contrast to the 38-minute delay by officials in Hawaii on Saturday to cancel warnings of an incoming ballistic missile. It took a further five hours for Hawaii’s governor, David Y. Ige, to apologize for the mistake.
NHK迅速更正了错误，相比之下，夏威夷官方在周六过了38分钟才取消弹道导弹攻击警报。随后又过了5个小时，夏威夷州州长戴维·Y·伊艺(David Y. Ige)才为错误致歉。
That blunder was blamed on a veteran employee at the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency who had sent the missile alert to cellphones across the state by picking the wrong option on his computer for a routine drill, and then confirming his choice.
那次错误是夏威夷紧急措施署(Emergency Management Agency)一名资深员工的责任。他在电脑上错误地选择了常规演习的按钮，并且还确认了这个选择，把导弹警报发到了全夏威夷的手机上。
The mistake sowed panic; a missile launched from North Korea would land in Honolulu in about 30 minutes, giving people little time to prepare.
失误散播了恐慌。一枚从朝鲜发射的导弹30分钟即可落在火奴鲁鲁，人们并没有多少时间用来准备。
After NHK’s announcement about making an error, Twitter users expressed their frustration and disbelief.
在NHK发布了操作失误的公告后，Twitter用户表达了他们的不满和怀疑。
“I thought I would die,” one Twitter user wrote in Japanese, followed by a “LOL.” Another, using the name Michiya Hayashi, wrote: “Following Hawaii, NHK did it too. Don’t become the boy who cried wolf.”
“我还以为我要死了，”一名Twitter用户用日文写道，后面还跟着一个“LOL”。还有一个名为Michiya Hayashi的用户写道：“继夏威夷之后，NHK也这样。别弄成狼来了。”
If the citizens of Japan and Hawaii were only starting to shake off any sense of unease, North Korea waded into the debate on Tuesday, with its state-run newspaper describing the false alarm in Hawaii as a “tragicomedy.”
日本和夏威夷的居民才刚刚开始摆脱焦虑情绪，朝鲜就在周二加入了这个讨论，他们的国有新闻媒体把夏威夷的错误警报称为一出“悲喜剧”。
“The entire island was thrown into an utter chaos at the news that a ballistic missile was coming in,” said the newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, with unmistakable glee.
“一则导弹即将到来的消息就让夏威夷全岛陷入了极度的混乱，”《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)的语气无疑带着喜悦。
The newspaper also characterized a tweet by President Trump two weeks ago in which he claimed to have a bigger nuclear button than the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, as “a spasm of a lunatic” and the “bark of a rabid dog.”
而在描述特朗普两周前发的一条推声称“自己的核按钮比朝鲜领导人金正恩的大”时，该报称这是“精神病发作”并且是“疯狗的乱吠”。
“The spasm of Trump in the new year reflects the desperate mental state of a loser who failed to check the vigorous advance of the army and people” of North Korea, the newspaper said in a commentary.
“新的一年里，特朗普的发作反映了这个无法认识到朝鲜军队和朝鲜人民茁壮进步的失败者极其糟糕的精神状况”，该报的评论写道。
Mr. Trump has so far not responded to those comments.
特朗普迄今尚未回应这些评论。