KATMANDU, Nepal — Over the years, as Mount Everest attracted larger crowds of amateur climbers from the West, the Sherpas adjusted: To a slower ascent, to traffic jams, to bulging loads of gear. Every spring some new frustration would get them talking, then recede with the end of the season.
尼泊尔加德满都——多年来，随着珠穆朗玛峰吸引了越来越多来自西方的业余登山者，夏尔巴人适应了更慢的攀登速度、登顶途中的交通拥堵，以及越来越多的装备。每年春天，一些新的不满会促使他们发声，之后随着季节的结束而平静下来。
This was the year that frustration boiled over. The avalanche that killed at least 13 Sherpas last Friday has prompted an extraordinary labor dispute, as Everest’s quiet workhorses took steps Tuesday to shut down the mountain for the season, demanding that the government share proceeds from what has become a multimillion-dollar business.
但今年，那种不满爆发了起来。上周五，一场雪崩导致至少13名夏尔巴人死亡，引发了一场异乎寻常的劳动纠纷。周二，珠穆朗玛峰上这些一向沉默、吃苦耐劳的向导采取行动，导致珠峰本季封山，要求政府分享登山生意已达数百万美元的收入。
Tensions were coursing through Everest’s base camp on Tuesday after a rowdy meeting where, according to people who were present, two-thirds of the Sherpas opted to cancel planned ascents. As a few teams of climbers packed their bags and began the long journey out of the Himalayas, two veteran expedition leaders left the camp by helicopter for an emergency meeting with Nepali officials in an effort to avert a shutdown.
周二，在一场争吵不休的会议后，整个珠峰大本营气氛紧张。与会者称，三分之二的夏尔巴人选择取消已经计划好的登山旅程。几队登山者收拾好行李，开始离开喜马拉雅山的跋涉，两名经验丰富的登山领队乘直升机离开了大本营，前去与尼泊尔官员举行紧急会议，试图避免珠峰封山。
“I would like to go back to my Sherpas and say, ‘Look, guys, I got what you wanted,’ “ said Phil Crampton, the owner of Altitude Junkies, a mountaineering company, in a telephone interview. “We want the Sherpas happy, we want the government happy, and we want our clients happy. The bottom line is that if at the end of the day, the Sherpas aren’t happy, we will comply and cancel our expedition.”
“我想回到我雇的那些夏尔巴人身边说，‘嗨，伙计们，我知道你们想要什么，’”登山公司“海拔成瘾”(Altitude Junkies)的老板菲尔·克兰普顿(Phil Crampton)在接受电话采访时说。“我们想让夏尔巴人满意，我们也想让政府满意，我们也想让自己的客户满意。总之，如果到头来夏尔巴人不满意，那我们就会遵守决定，取消登山。”
Mount Everest is now far more popular than most of the world’s other high peaks, with as many as 600 people a year reaching the summit, more than half of them Sherpas, who are mostly members of a small ethnic group renowned for their skill at mountaineering.
目前，珠穆朗玛峰远比世界上的大多数高峰更受欢迎，每年有多达600人登顶，其中夏尔巴人的比例超过一半，他们大都来自一个以登山技术而闻名的小民族。
Foreign climbers pay professional Western guides as much as $100,000 to ease their path up the mountain. Altitude Junkies, for instance, charges $42,500 for a 60-day expedition, which includes extras like helicopter flights and “two personal Sherpas on summit day.” Of that, $11,000 goes to the Nepali government for a climbing license, and issuing such licenses has netted the government $3 million to $4 million annually in recent years. Money also pours into the local economy, including hotel rooms, nights in teahouses, local cellphone use and the hiring of yaks and porters to carry supplies up the mountain.
外国登山者要向专业的西方向导支付高达10万美元（约合62万元人民币），帮助分担他们登山路上的负担。比如，“海拔成瘾”一个为期60天的登山项目收费为4.25万美元，其中包括乘坐直升机和“登顶当天两名夏尔巴人作私人向导”等服务。在这笔钱中，1.1万美元要交给尼泊尔政府，以获取登山许可证。近年来，尼泊尔政府通过发放许可证每年可以净赚300万到400万美元。还有部分资金流入了当地经济，其中包括酒店房间、晚上在茶馆里喝茶、在当地使用手机，以及租牦牛和雇佣脚夫运送补给。
The mountaineering companies pay Sherpas, who generally outnumber foreign climbers by two to one. In a country where the average per capita income is around $700, Everest’s Sherpas can make $3,000 to $5,000 in a season, supplemented with bonuses if they reach the summit. But they face extraordinary risks, and some have expressed frustration as life on the mountain has changed. Two years ago, after a harrowing season, a guide named Pemba Janbu Sherpa complained that foreign clients, coming “with money but without technical training,” were forcing him and his colleagues into dangerous situations.
登山公司则会花钱雇佣夏尔巴人，当地人的人数通常比外国登山者多，两者之间的比例通常为2:1。在一个人均收入约700美元的国家，珠穆朗玛峰上的夏尔巴人一季能赚3000到5000美元。如果成功登顶，他们还有奖金。但他们也面临着超乎寻常的风险，而且因为登山的生活发生了变化，一些人表达了失望。两年前，在经历了令人痛苦一季后，一个名叫边巴·扬布·色尔巴(Pemba Janbu Sherpa)的向导抱怨道，“有钱却没接受过技术训练的”外国客户使他和同事陷入危险境地。
“Climbers actually say, ‘I’ve paid $50,000, you are here to work for me, and you have to accompany me,’ “ he told an analyst studying Everest. “The mountain itself feels like it is losing its value. Just about everyone seems to want to climb it by paying a Sherpa who will ensure reaching the summit.”
“登山者实际上会说，‘我花了5万美元，你来这里是为我工作的，你必须陪着我，’ ”他对一名研究珠穆朗玛峰的分析人士说，“珠峰自己也感觉身价在下降。仿佛所有人都想要雇一名夏尔巴人攀登珠峰，夏尔巴人会保证他们登顶。”
The 16 Sherpas killed in Friday’s avalanche — 13 bodies were retrieved, and three remain missing — were crossing the Khumbu Icefall, a notoriously dangerous ice field. Foreign climbers keep their time on this section to a strict minimum, but Sherpas cross it many times a season, ferrying gear up from one camp to another. It was the largest single-day loss in Everest’s history, and an unprecedented blow for the Sherpas.
在周五的雪崩中遇难的16名夏尔巴人（已找到13具遗体，另外3具尚未找到）当时正在穿越昆布冰川(Khumbu Icefall)。众所周知那片冰原十分危险，外国登山者会把在这片地区的活动时间严格控制在最少程度，而夏尔巴人却要在一季中多次穿越该区域，将装备从一个营地运送到另一个营地。这是珠峰历史上单日死亡人数最多的一次，也是夏尔巴人遭遇的一次前所未有的打击。
Nepali authorities infuriated many of the Sherpas by offering 40,000 rupees, or about $408, as compensation to the families of the dead. Tempers flared on Monday when a group of Sherpas marched in a procession with the bodies of six of the dead, said Mukunda Bista of the Nepal Youth Foundation.
尼泊尔当局提出给遇难者家属发放4万卢比，大约相当于408美元（约合2600元人民币）作为补偿，这激怒了许多夏尔巴人。尼泊尔青年基金会(Nepal Youth Foundation)的穆昆达·比斯塔(Mukunda Bista)透露，一群夏尔巴人周一抬着六名遇难者的遗体列队游行时，场面剑拔弩张。
“When it ended in the middle of town, they were very, very angry with the government,” Mr. Bista, who is based in Katmandu, said in a telephone interview. “This time, it really is a crucial moment. If the government is not taking it seriously, there might be more agitation and fighting.”
“当游行在市中心结束时，他们对政府非常、非常生气，”长居加德满都的比斯塔在接受电话采访时说。“这一次，真的是关键时刻。如果政府不认真对待，可能会出现更多骚乱和争斗。”
By Sunday night, some of the Sherpa guides at the base camp were advocating canceling the rest of the season’s expeditions on Everest, confronting international climbers with the prospect of abandoning plans that had cost them tens of thousands of dollars and been years in the making. Many, in their initial comments on social media, were sympathetic to the Sherpas.
到周日晚上，大本营里的一些夏尔巴人向导正在主张取消本季其余的珠峰探险，与他们对立的一方是可能需要被迫放弃计划的外国登山者。登山计划花了他们很多钱，而且酝酿了多年。从最初在社交媒体上的评论看，许多人都很同情那些夏尔巴人。
“We clients, Western climbers, are here by choice,” Isaiah Janzen, an engineer from Iowa, wrote on his blog. “We pay to come here and test ourselves. The Sherpas, people that carry our loads, set up our tents, cook for us, set up the ropes on the mountains, they are here because they are paid 10-15 times the average Nepali salary to do this for two months.”
“我们西方登山者作为客户，是自愿来到这里的，”来自艾奥瓦州的工程师以赛亚·扬森(Isaiah Janzen)在他的博客上写道，“我们是花钱来这里考验自己的。那些帮我们搬运行李、搭帐篷、做饭、在上山路上栓绳子的夏尔巴人在这里，是因为他们得到了相当于尼泊尔人均收入10到15倍的报酬，才原意用两个月时间做这些事的。”
He added, “I would still like to climb this mountain, but there are things at stake more important than my selfish, arrogant and egotistical summit ambitions.”
他还说，“我还是想爬这座山峰，但关涉其中的许多东西比我自私、自大、以自我为中心的登顶愿望更重要。”
But various people at the camp, both foreigners and Nepali guides, said tensions were growing as the prospect of abandoning the ascent became real.
但在大本营里，包括外国人和尼泊尔向导在内的许多人表示，随着放弃登山的可能性变成了现实，局势日益紧张。