KIGALI, Rwanda — Col. Mamadou Moustafa stood at the front lines of the battle for eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, surveying his soldiers fighting to dislodge rebels from the surrounding hills.
卢旺达基加利——马马杜·穆斯塔法上校(Mamadou Moustafa)站在刚果民主共和国东部的战斗前线，观察自己的士兵和叛乱分子作战，他们要把周边山区里的敌人赶走。
“We are fighting because we want to overcome the humiliation of both the Congolese Army and the international community,” he said recently in a Congolese town. “We are ready to die.”
“我们是在为洗清刚果陆军和国际社会的耻辱而战，”近日他在刚果境内一个镇子里说。“我们已经做好牺牲的准备。”
A little more than a week later, the army got its victory. On Tuesday, the rebels announced that they were laying down their arms for good, a major turnaround brought about by a rare combination of pressures from around the world, including a more aggressive approach to peacekeeping by the United Nations.
又过了一个星期多一点，军队取得了胜利。叛乱分子在周二宣布，他们将彻底放下武器。世界各国罕见地一致施压，是促成这次重大转机的原因，其中也包括联合国所采取的更强硬的维和手段。
The rebel surrender offered new hope for a region where conflict — and the failed international attempts to stop it — has gone on for so many years that it has often come to seem unresolvable, even inevitable.
叛乱分子的投降给该地区带来了新的希望，多年来，这里的冲突以及国际社会的调停失败已经让人们觉得这种局面是无解的，甚至是不可避免的。
“In a region that has suffered so much, this is obviously a significant positive step in the right direction,” Russ Feingold, the United States special envoy to the Great Lakes region of Africa, said at a news briefing.
“在这样一个苦难深重的地区，这显然是向着正确的方向迈出了极其积极的一步，”美国驻非洲大湖地区特别代表拉斯·范戈尔德(Russ Feingold)在一次新闻简报会上说。
Only a year ago, the rebels seized the provincial capital of Goma while the much-derided United Nations peacekeeping force, for years the largest and most expensive in the world, stood by and watched as the city was sacked.
就在一年前叛乱分子夺取省会城市戈马的时候，经常被当做笑料的联合国维和部队袖手旁观，坐视城市被洗劫。这支部队多年来一直是全世界规模最大、最昂贵的维和部队。
But the stinging defeat helped bring about a change in strategy. On the battlefield, the United Nations Security Council tried something new, giving its peacekeepers orders to go on the offensive and hunt down the rebels, not just wait for civilians to come under threat, for the first time.
但是，惨痛的失败促使战略发生改变。联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)在战场上尝试了一些新东西，破天荒地下令让维和部队主动进攻，追击叛乱分子，而不是坐等平民遭到威胁时才出手。
“If there is no peace, there is nothing to keep,” said the United Nations representative to Congo, Martin Kobler, expressing the philosophy behind the new United Nations intervention brigade.
“如果没有和平，就没什么可维护的了，”联合国驻刚果代表马丁·科博勒(Martin Kobler)表达了这种新型联合国干预部队背后的哲学。
On the diplomatic front, the United States, the European Union, Britain and other nations had already begun cutting aid to Rwanda — which has been accused of helping arm, coordinate and recruit fighters for the insurrection — in a move that appears to have shorn the rebels of badly needed support.
在外交层面上，美国、欧盟、英国及其他国家已经开始停止对卢旺达的援助。该国被指在武器、策应和征兵方面向叛乱武装分子提供了帮助。目前看来，这项举措切断了叛乱分子迫切需要的支持。
And within Congo itself, the embarrassing loss of a major city spurred the military to reorganize its ranks. It removed ineffective officers, raised morale with better equipment and more consistent pay, and quickly became a more effective fighting force that swept over the rebels.
而在刚果国内，一座大城市失守的尴尬促使军方对部队展开整肃。无能的军官被解职，更好的装备和更稳定的薪资发放提升了士气，战斗力迅速得到加强，从而横扫叛乱分子。
“This is historic,” said Jason Stearns, an author, blogger and Congo expert. “This would be the first time since 1996 that the Congolese Army defeats a major armed group and that Rwanda has no armed ally in the eastern Congo.”
“这是要载入史册的，”作家、博主和刚果专家杰森·斯特恩斯(Jason Stearns)说。“这将是自1996年以来刚果陆军第一次击败一支成规模的部队，而卢旺达也失去了在刚果东部的武装同盟。”
On Tuesday, the rebels, known as M23, announced that they were ending the 20-month rebellion that had brought renewed instability, uncertainty and conflict to the eastern part of Congo. After suffering a string of recent defeats, the group’s chairman, Bertrand Bisimwa, said that M23 had decided “to pursue by purely political means the search for solutions to the root causes which led to its creation.”
名为M23的叛乱组织在周二宣布，他们将结束持续了20个月的叛乱，这场叛乱给刚果东部带来了更多的动荡、不安和冲突。在近期经历了一系列的挫败后，M23主席伯特兰德·比辛瓦(Bertrand Bisimwa)说，他们已经决定“采取纯粹的政治手段，来寻求当初促成该组织成立的根本问题的解决。”
In a statement headlined “Declaration of the End of Rebellion,” Mr. Bisimwa said, “Commanders are requested to prepare the troops for the process of disarmament, demobilization and social reintegration.”
在这份题为“终止暴动宣言”的声明中，比辛瓦说，“指挥官需要为部队的武装解除、复员和重入社会程序做好准备。”
Barely a year ago, M23 occupied Goma, a city of roughly one million people and a major commercial center in the eastern part of the country. The occupation was M23’s high-water mark as a force in the area, but the seizure of the city may have also sown the seeds of its undoing.
此刻距离M23当初占领戈马顶多才过去一年，对这座有约100万人口的刚果东部重要商业中心的占领，标志着M23在该地区的影响力达到顶点，但夺取城市可能同时也种下了毁灭的种子。
The United Nations, which had a significant number of peacekeeping troops in the city, soon authorized a new intervention brigade of 3,000 troops, with an aggressive new mandate. Likewise, Congo recalled dozens of officers to the capital, Kinshasa, streamlining an army often best known for corruption and human rights abuses.
在戈马部署着大批维和部队的联合国很快下令组建了一支新的干预部队，这支有3000名士兵的部队得到了更具攻击性的授权。与此同时，刚果将数十名军官召回首都金沙萨，对一支以腐败和践踏人权著称的军队进行了精简。
The question is whether the Congolese military, supported by United Nations peacekeepers, can and will take on the dozens of other armed groups in the area, restoring order throughout the region.
问题在于，刚果军方在联合国维和部队的支持下能否对该地区的其他数十个武装组织采取行动，恢复这里的秩序。
The broad diplomatic pressure on Rwanda appears to have robbed the rebels of backing at a crucial moment. Last year, United Nations experts accused Rwanda and Uganda of being so central to the group’s operations that its de facto chain of command “culminates with the minister of defense of Rwanda.” The report came under intense criticism from Rwanda, but many nations, as well as the European Union, Rwanda’s largest donor, froze aid in response.
对卢旺达进行的全面外交施压看来在关键时刻对叛乱分子形成了釜底抽薪的效果。联合国专家去年曾指责卢旺达和乌干达在该组织的行动中起到了至关重要的作用，可以说整个指挥系统事实上的“最高层就是卢旺达国防部长”。那份报告遭到了卢旺达的强烈批评，但许多国家连同卢旺达的头号金主欧盟都选择用冻结援助来作出回应。
“The international pressure on Rwanda seems to have made a difference,” said Ida Sawyer, senior researcher with Human Rights Watch. “They will hopefully think twice before backing yet another abusive rebellion.”
“国际上向卢旺达施加的压力看来是起作用了，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)高级研究员艾达·索耶尔(Ida Sawyer)说。“希望他们下次要支持别的什么残暴的叛乱活动时能三思而行。”