SINGAPORE — HAVING lived and worked abroad for many years, I’m sensitive to the changing ways that foreigners look at America. Over the years, I’ve seen an America that was respected, hated, feared and loved. But traveling around China and Singapore last week, I was confronted repeatedly with an attitude toward America that I’ve never heard before: “What’s up with you guys?”
新加坡——由于在海外生活工作过多年，我对外国人对美国的看法的变化很敏感。这么多年里，我看到美国被尊敬过、被憎恨过、被畏惧过，也被爱戴过。可是，上周在中国和新加坡各处访问期间，我反复遭遇一种之前闻所未闻的态度：你们这是怎么了？
Whether we were feared or loved, America was always the outsized standard by which all others were compared. What we built and what we dreamt were, to many, the definition of the future. Well, today, to many people, we look like the definition of a drunken driver — like a lifelong mentor who has gone on a binge and is no longer predictable. And, as for defining the future, the country that showed the world how to pull together to put a man on the moon and defeat Nazism and Communism, today broadcasts a politics dominated by three phrases: “You can’t do that,” “It’s off the table” and “The president didn’t know.” A Singaporean official who has been going to America for decades expressed shock to me at being in Washington during the government shutdown and how old and emotionally depressed the city felt.
怕也好爱也罢，美国过去一直是其他国家拿来当做比较基准的巨人。对许多人而言，我们的梦想与现实，曾代表了未来。现如今，在不少人看来，我们倒像是不折不扣的醉酒司机，仿佛当了一辈子导师，却跑去喝个酩酊大醉，变得捉摸不透了。至于开创未来，这个曾经向世界展示如何齐心协力将人类送上月球并打败纳粹与共产主义的国家，今天却在上演被三句话左右的政治斗争：“你不能那么干”、“这件事不容讨论”，以及“总统事先不知情”。几十年来一直跑美国的一名新加坡官员告诉我，联邦政府停摆期间他在华盛顿，那里感觉既老朽又压抑，令其十分震惊。
“Few Americans are aware of how much America has lost in this recent episode of bringing the American economy to the edge of a cliff,” said Kishore Mahbubani, the dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy here, and the author of “The Great Convergence: Asia, the West, and the Logic of One World.” “People always looked up to America as the best-run country, the most reasonable, the most sensible. And now people are asking: ‘Can America manage itself and what are the implications for us’ ” — if it can’t?
“没什么美国人意识到，最近把美国经济推到悬崖边的事件让美国损失了多少，”新加坡国立大学李光耀公共政策学院院长马凯硕(Kishore Mahbubani)说。“人们总是仰望美国，把它看成管理得最好、最合理且最明智的国家。现在大家却在问：美国能管好自己吗？（如果不能的话，）对我们会有什么影响？’”马凯硕著有《大汇合：亚洲、西方与世界大同的逻辑》(The Great Convergence: Asia, the West, and the Logic of One World)一书。
In talking to Asian college students, teachers, diplomats and businesspeople, here is how I’d distill what was on their minds: “Are you really going to shut down your government again? Like, who does that? And, by the way, don’t think that doesn’t affect my business over here, because I’m holding a lot of dollars and I don’t know what their value is going to be. Also, how could the people who gave us Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, I.B.M., H.P. and Google not be able to build a workable health care website? I know it had five million users, but there are 48 million Indonesians on Facebook!”
与亚洲的大学生、教师、外交官及商人谈过之后，我把他们脑海里的问题提炼了出来：“你们真的准备再来一次政府停摆吗？说真的，谁会干这种事情啊？还有，可别以为不会影响到我在这边的生意，因为我持有大量的美元，却不知道它们将来价值几何。对了，创造出了亚马逊(Amazon)、苹果(Apple)、微软(Microsoft)、IBM、惠普(HP)和谷歌(Google)的美国人，怎么没法捣腾出一个好使的医保网站？我知道用户有500万，但是，光印度尼西亚就有4800万人上Facebook！”
Worse, whenever you’d visit China or Singapore, it was always the people there who used to be on the defensive when discussing democracy. Now, as an American, you’re the one who wants to steer away from that subject. After all, how much should we be bragging about a system where it takes $20 million to be elected to the Senate; or where a majority of our members of Congress choose their voters through gerrymandering rather than voters choosing them; or where voting rights laws are being weakened; or where lawmakers spend most of their free time raising money, not studying issues; or where our Congress has become a forum for legalized bribery; or where we just had a minority of a minority threaten to undermine America’s credit rating if we didn’t overturn an enacted law on health care; or where we can’t pass even the most common sense gun law banning assault weapons after the mass murder of schoolchildren?
更糟的是，过去任何时候去中国和新加坡，要为民主问题辩解的总是当地人。现在，唯恐避之不及的变成了美国人。要知道，美国的体系哪有什么可夸耀的：当选参议员要花上2000万美元（约合1.2亿元人民币）；众议院里的多数议员通过不公平的选区划分来挑拣选民，而不是让选民来决定他们的命运；选举权法遭到削弱；议员们将几乎全部的空余时间用于筹款，而非研究问题；国会已变成了合法贿赂的舞台；少数党中的少数派刚刚拿破坏美国信用评级来威胁我们废除已生效的医保法案；发生针对学童的大规模枪击事件后，就连最常识性的禁止攻击性武器的枪支提案都没法通过？
I still don’t believe there would be many takers for the commentary on the official Chinese news agency Xinhua, after the government shutdown, suggesting that it was “perhaps a good time for the befuddled world to start considering building a de-Americanized world.” But Xinhua got the befuddled part right. Many people would still line up in a blizzard to come to America, though for too many now that is not because we’re the “beacon on the hill” but rather “the cleanest dirty shirt.”
我仍然认为，中国官方媒体新华社在美国政府停摆后做出的评论不会有大把信众。文中称，“也许现在对迷惑混乱的世界而言是好时机，开始考虑建立一个去美国化的世界。”不过，新华社所说的“迷惑混乱”并没错。还是会有大批人排着队要来美国，哪怕经历千辛万苦，只不过对不少人而言，我们不再是“指路明灯”，而是“矬子里拔将军”的选择。
Singapore is not a full-fledged democracy. What it does have is a government that wakes up each day asking: What world are we living in and how do we best use the resources we have to enable more of our citizens to thrive in this world? Little things here catch my eye, like the E.R.P.: the electronic road pricing system that greets you when you drive into the center city and tells you every minute, via an electronic billboard, how much it will automatically charge you when you drive into the downtown. It constantly adjusts the price based on the number of cars that can comfortably fit the roads.
新加坡并不是成熟的民主国家，但拥有一个每天扪心自问的政府：我们生活的世界是怎样的？我们如何最好地利用手头的资源让更多公民在当今世界中成功。新加坡的一些小事吸引了我的注意，比如电子道路收费系统(ERP)。驾车驶入城中心的时候，系统会通过电子板每分钟提醒一次，在中心地带行车的自动扣款费率。它会计算适宜上路的车辆数量，并据此实时调整收费。
The Bush team tried to fund a similar system to reduce congestion and pollution for Manhattan, but it was killed by other boroughs and lawmakers in Albany. And that is what bothers me most today. It’s not just that we can no longer pull together to put a man on the moon. It’s that we can’t even implement proven common-sense solutions that others have long mastered — some form of national health care, gun control, road pricing, a gasoline tax to escape our budget and carbon bind.
布什(Bush)政府曾试图资助一个类似的系统来减轻曼哈顿的拥堵与污染问题，不过被纽约其他各区及奥尔巴尼的纽约州议员扼杀了。这是如今最困扰我的事情。问题并不在于，我们不再能齐心协力把人送上月球；而是在于，就连已被证明是常识、其他国家早已驾轻就熟的解决办法也不能实现，比如某种形式的全民医保、枪支管控、道路收费，以及可以避免预算与碳危机的燃油税。
As Andy Karsner, the former assistant secretary of energy who participated in last week’s New York Times forum here, remarked to me: “This is the first time I have visited Singapore where its modernity is not a novelty, but a depressing contrast.” Because, he added, you know that all the modernity and prosperity you see here “is not based on natural resources but on a natural resourcefulness — and on implementing with ease best practices, many of which ironically originated in the United States.”
上周，曾担任美国能源部助理部长的安迪·卡斯纳(Andy Karsner)出席了在新加坡举办的《纽约时报》论坛。他对我说：“这是我头一回来新加坡，这里的现代化程度不是什么新鲜事，却带来了一种令人郁闷的比照。”他的理由是，大家知道，新加坡的现代与繁荣“并不是因为自然资源，而是因为自如地巧妙应对，因为简单地采用最佳做法。讽刺的是，这些实践许多源于美国”。