NEW YORK — The cabbies huddled beside space heaters in the break room of a garage in Long Island City, Queens, playing a Ghanaian version of checkers before their shifts were to begin.
纽约——在长岛市一个车库的休息室内，一群出租车司机聚集在取暖装置旁，在接班前玩着加纳版的西洋棋。
“Greek. African. Couple of Haitians,” said Stanley Wissak, the longtime president of the cab company, 55 Stan, gesturing toward each yellow taxi driver he passed.
“希腊人、非洲人，还有几个海地人，”出租车公司55 Stan长期以来的总裁斯坦利·维萨克(Stanley Wissak)边说，边跟他所经过的每辆黄色出租车的司机打招呼。
“Mr. Stanley, how you doing?” one cabby asked. Mr. Wissak nodded as the man walked away.
“斯坦利，你好吗？”一个司机问候道。维萨克点了点头，那人随即离开。
“Egypt,” the boss said.
“埃及人，”老板说。
The American-born cabby, long a stalwart of the industry even as immigrants began to dominate its ranks, has now just about vanished.
尽管移民逐渐开始在计程车行业中占据主导地位，不过长期以来，美国出生的计程车司机一直是这个行业的中坚分子。但现在这个群体已几近消失。
Today, only 8 percent of New York City taxi and for-hire drivers were born in the United States, the city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission said. According to records released in December by the commission, the dearth is particularly pronounced among yellow taxi drivers; of them, 6 percent are native-born.
纽约市出租车及礼车委员会(Taxi and Limousine Commission)表示，如今纽约市出租车和可租用汽车的司机中，只有8%出生于美国。根据该委员会12月发布的记录，黄色出租车的司机群体中缺乏美国出生者的现象尤其明显，他们当中只有6%生于美国。
The numbers are a far cry from 1980, when 62 percent of taxi and for-hire drivers in New York City were born in the United States, according to Census figures cited in a 2004 report by Schaller Consulting. By 1990, the figure had fallen to 36 percent; by 2000, it was down to 16 percent.
夏勒咨询公司(Schaller Consulting)在2004年的一份报告中引用人口普查数据显示，这些数据与20世纪80年代的数据存在很大差异：当时纽约市出租车和可租用汽车的司机，有62%出生在美国。截至1990年，这个数字下降到了36%，到2000年又降到了16%。
The shift to a near-uniform immigrant work force has had a profound effect on the taxi industry, reshaping the relationship between driver and passenger.
如今，出租车行业的劳动力几乎完全变成了移民，这种现象对出租车行业造成了深刻影响，也重新塑造了司机和乘客间的关系。
Archetypes of a generation past have largely receded from view: the New York know-it-all, the fledgling actor making do between auditions, the student working his way through college behind the wheel.
过去那一代常见的景象是，司机中有对纽约无所不知的老手、有在各场试镜之间奔忙的新演员，还有试图通过开车来挣钱念大学的学生。但现在，这样的景象已经基本消失。
Former and current drivers said the trend could be traced in large part to changes in cab leasing terms in the 1970s. With rules that now often require much of a long day’s work — a standard shift is 12 hours — just to cover the daily rental rate, there is far less latitude for students, performers or other young New Yorkers to drive cabs for part of the day as supplemental income.
之前和现在的司机都说，这个趋势基本可以归结于20世纪70年代出租车租赁条款的变动。根据目前的规定，司机每天都需要工作很长时间——正常的班次时间为12小时——才能赚够每天租赁的费用，如此一来，学生、演员或其他年轻的纽约人就无法再像原来一样，通过每天花一些时间开出租车，来赚些外快了。
“I went into this thinking it was a steppingstone to something,” said John McDonagh, 59, a cabby who was raised in Middle Village, Queens. But his more than 35 years as a taxi driver have led him to instead perceive his job as a springboard “to the end of my life.”
“我刚开始开车时，想的是它可以成为从事其他工作的跳板，”59岁的出租车司机约翰·麦克多纳(John McDonagh)说。他是在皇后区中村长大的。但是，超过35年的开出租车经历使他改变了想法，他开始认为这份工作不是跳板，而是“我的宿命”。
Another consequence of the lease changes: Taxi operators were once far more invested in the success of their cabbies.
改变租赁条款的另一个后果是：出租车公司不再那么关注司机成功与否了。
“It was just a much better job,” said Tom Robbins, a journalist and author who drove a taxi in the 1970s. “When I had a good day, the boss had a good day. When I had a bad day, the boss had a bad day. Once leasing came in, the boss never had a bad day.”
“当时开车的工作比现在好多了，”曾在20世纪70年代开过出租车的记者、作家汤姆·罗宾斯(Tom Robbins)说。“如果我这一天过得不错，老板的日子也会好过。如果我这一天做的不行，老板的日子也不好过。一实行租约制度，老板就能旱涝保收了。”
Mr. Wissak, 86, said that many American-born drivers who joined the industry now were “basically over the age of 55 to 65” and recently out of a job in another field.
今年86岁的维萨克说，现在加入这个行业生于美国的司机，“基本已经超过了55岁甚至65岁”，通常是刚刚失去了另一个行业的工作。
And most immigrants do not look to cab driving as a top choice.
而且，大多数移民都不认为开出租车是最好的选择。
“I don’t think it’s the first option for any worker, native-born or immigrant, because the conditions are so difficult,” said Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance. “It’s the backup plan.”
“我认为，对任何工作者，无论是生在美国的人还是移民，这都不是最好的选择，因为工作条件十分艰苦，”纽约出租车工人联盟(New York Taxi Workers Alliance)的执行总监拜拉维·德赛(Bhairavi Desai)说。“这只是权宜之计。”
According to the commission report, the most common country of origin for yellow cabdrivers is now Bangladesh. More than 23 percent of drivers were born there, the report said, compared with less than 14 percent in 2005. In that year, the highest concentration of drivers came from Pakistan.
根据委员会的报告，孟加拉是黄色出租车司机最常见的来源国。报告称，超过23%的司机都出生于孟加拉，而2005年时这个比例还不到14%。那一年，巴基斯坦是司机最常见的来源国。
The report, which included demographic information on drivers and passengers, suggested that riders tend to be young, male and affluent. Surveys conducted on back-seat television screens found that more than 40 percent of riders had a household income of more than $100,000, not including 17 percent who preferred not to answer. About 70 percent of riders were found to be 35 or younger.
这份报告中包含了司机和乘客的统计数据，报告显示乘客一般都是年轻、富有的男性。通过出租车后座的显示屏进行调查时发现，超过40%的乘客家庭收入都超过了10万美元，其中还不包括17%不愿意回答这个问题的乘客。调查显示，70%的乘客都在35岁或35岁以下。
“The opportunity of a sympathetic relationship between a young stockbroker and a 50-year old from Bangladesh is pretty remote,” said Graham Hodges, a taxi historian and a former New York cabby.
研究出租车历史的前纽约市出租车司机格雷厄姆·霍奇斯(Graham Hodges)说，“一名年轻的股票经纪人和一位50岁的孟加拉人，能产生共鸣的几率非常低。”
In an age in which television screens are among many potential back-seat distractions, the shift in rider-cabby relations may have as much to do with the passenger as the driver.
在如今这个年代，电视机荧幕已经成了分散乘客注意力的诸多潜在因素之一，乘客与司机的关系之所以会发生变化，原因可能既有司机的，也有乘客的。
“People get in the cabs, and they’re talking on their cellphones,” Mr. Robbins said. “They’re missing out on a lot.”
“人们坐进出租车，就开始打电话，”罗宾斯说。“他们错过了很多东西。”
The scarcity of American-born drivers seems to have bound some together. John Abrahams, 52, from Park Slope, Brooklyn, recalled a run-in with a fellow cabby on Park Avenue.
美国本土出生的司机的缺乏似乎还把一些人联系在了一起。52岁的约翰·亚伯拉罕斯(John Abrahams)来自布鲁克林公园坡，他回忆起了某天在公园大道上偶遇另一名出租车司机的情景。
“I looked over, and there was a white guy,” Mr. Abrahams said. “We both burst out laughing. He said, ‘I always tell my fares that there’s one other white guy in the city. I found him.’ ”
“我望过去，看到了一名白人男子，”亚伯拉罕斯说。“于是我们都笑了。他说，‘我经常跟我的旅客说，这座城市还有另一个白人出租车司机。我找到他了。’”