A Hong Kong judge declined on Monday to set aside an arrest warrant for a local newspaper tycoon who fled to Taiwan 36 years ago after being charged with drug trafficking.
本周一，香港法官驳回了一份拘捕令的撤销申请。这份拘捕令针对的是一位香港报业大亨，36年前，他在被指控贩毒后逃到了台湾。
Ma Sik-chun, the founder of the city’s largest-selling Chinese-language newspaper, was one of nine people who was arrested and charged in a major case in 1977 with trafficking morphine and opium from Southeast Asia into Hong Kong, then a British colony.
马惜珍曾创办了香港销量最大的中文报纸。在1977年一桩从东南亚贩运吗啡和鸦片到香港的重大案件中，有九个人遭到拘捕与指控，马惜珍就是其中之一。香港当时仍是英国的殖民地。
In 1978, as the case was heading to trial, Mr. Ma skipped bail and fled to Taiwan, where he has lived as a fugitive ever since. Hong Kong does not have an extradition treaty with Taiwan.
1978年，当这桩案件将要进入审理阶段时，马惜珍弃保潜逃到了台湾，之后他一直作为逃犯生活在那里。香港和台湾之间没有引渡条约。
Lawyers representing Mr. Ma, now 76, had recently applied to the court in Hong Kong to have the warrant for his arrest discharged, citing an admission by Hong Kong government attorneys that they no longer had sufficient evidence to prosecute their case against him.
马惜珍现年76岁，他的律师最近向香港法院申请撤销对他的拘捕令，理由是香港政府的检察官承认，他们不再有足够的证据来起诉马惜珍。
The police had alleged that Mr. Ma, who is also known as Ma Yik-shing, had, along with his elder brother Ma Sik-yu, headed a syndicate that brought millions of dollars’ worth of illegal drugs from the Golden Triangle into Hong Kong in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
警方曾称，马惜珍（又名马奕盛）及其兄长马惜如领导一个团伙，在60年代末和70年代初，将价值数百万美元的非法毒品从金三角运送到香港。
The elder Mr. Ma, widely known as “White Powder Ma,” had fled to Taiwan a year before his younger brother and died there in 1992.
马惜如人称“白粉马”(White Powder Ma)，比马惜珍早一年逃往台湾，并于1992年在那里亡故。
The brothers founded The Oriental Daily News in 1969. The newspaper remains under management of members of the Ma family.
马氏兄弟于1969年创办了《东方日报》(Oriental Daily News)。该报目前仍由马氏家族成员管理。
In the late 1990s, a controversy emerged over a political donation by the Ma family to Britain’s Conservative Party. The family had donated $1.7 million for “certain commitments” but had grown disappointed with the outcome and sought a refund from the Conservatives.
20世纪90年代后期，马家向英国保守党(Conservative Party)提供的一笔政治捐款曾引起了争议。马家曾为“某些承诺”捐赠了170万美元（约合人民币1060万元），但对结果却日渐感到失望，于是要求保守党退钱。
At the start of the hearing on Monday in Hong Kong’s High Court, several clerks carried hefty reams of old files into the courtroom, their manila folders turned brown with age.
本周一，香港高等法院开始聆讯时，几名职员把沉重的旧文件搬进法庭。文件夹原本是淡黄褐色，年深日久已经变成了棕色。
“This involves some archaeology, and the discolored files are evidence of that,” said Gerard McCoy, the barrister speaking on Mr. Ma’s behalf. “The critical factor, as a matter of principle, is the reluctant and no doubt irritated concession by the prosecution that there isn’t, anymore, sufficient evidence against him.”
“本案要涉及到一些考古活动了，变色的文件就证明了这一点，”代表马惜珍的资深大律师麦高义(Gerard McCoy)说。“从原则上说，关键因素就是检方不情愿地、无疑也很窝火地承认，不利于他的证据现在已经不复充分。”
He added that Mr. Ma had always “emphatically denied” the charges against him.
他补充说，马惜珍一直“坚决否认”对他的指控。
Mr. McCoy said that Mr. Ma’s health had deteriorated and that he suffered from recurrent heart failure. He uses a wheelchair and wears an oxygen mask. “Mr. Ma’s dying wish is to return to Hong Kong,” he said.
麦考伊说，马惜珍的健康情况已经恶化，经常出现心脏衰竭，现在坐轮椅，戴氧气面罩。“马先生此生最后的愿望是回到香港，”他说。
Peter Duncan, the barrister speaking on behalf of the director of public prosecutions, said the Hong Kong government took a neutral stance toward Mr. Ma’s application. He conceded that prosecutors no longer had sufficient evidence to bring the case to court, meaning that should Mr. Ma return to stand trial, the government would present no evidence against him, and he would be almost certainly be acquitted.
代表刑事检控专员(director of public prosecutions)的资深大律师邓乐勤(Peter Duncan)表示，对于马惜珍的申请，香港政府采取了中立立场。他承认，检察官不再有足够的证据将该案提交法院，这意味着如果马惜珍回来受审，政府将无法提出不利于他的证据，因而他几乎肯定会被无罪开释。
Neither side explained the lack of evidence, but one of the government’s key witnesses in the original case was Ng Sik-ho, widely known as “Limpy Ho” because of a leg injury. Mr. Ng had been arrested for drug trafficking in 1975 and was later sentenced to 30 years in prison. He died in 1991.
双方都没有对证据不足的状况进行解释，但在原案中，政府的主要证人之一是人称“跛豪”的吴锡豪，这个绰号因他的腿伤而得名。1975年吴锡豪因涉嫌贩毒被捕，后被判处30年监禁，并于1991年亡故。
Still, Mr. Duncan argued that dismissing the arrest warrant against Mr. Ma could send “the wrong message” that “persons of means” could escape charges by fleeing and then waiting until the case goes stale to have the matter thrown out of court.
尽管如此，邓乐勤声称，撤销针对马惜珍的拘捕令可能会发出“错误的信息”，即“富人”可以出逃，等到事情变成陈年旧案，被法院撤销，就可以逃脱法网制裁。
Beginning in 1988, Mr. Ma had approached the Hong Kong authorities a number of times about the possibility of returning, Mr. Duncan said. Each time, he had been told he would face arrest.
从1988年起，马惜珍曾多次接触香港当局，探讨他回港的可能性，邓乐勤说。但每一次他都被告知，他会遭到拘捕。
In his ruling dismissing the application, Judge Andrew Chan said the fact that evidence against Mr. Ma had weakened over time was a matter for public prosecutors and the department of justice to explain. But as far as the court was concerned, the arrest warrant that was issued by the court against Mr. Ma in 1978 was still valid.
在做出驳回这个申请的裁决时，法官陈庆伟(Andrew Chan)说，不利于马惜珍的证据随着时间的推移而变得不足这件事，得由检查官和律政司(department of justice)来解释。但就法院而言，1978年发出的针对马惜珍的拘捕令仍然有效。
Lawyers for Mr. Ma declined to comment on the ruling, or to say whether they would appeal.
马惜珍的律师拒绝对申请被驳回一事置评，也没有说他们是否会上诉。