The senior Washington correspondent of Canada’s CBC News, Neil Macdonald, has been dutifully filing on the serial misbehavior of Toronto’s crack-smoking, binge-drinking mayor, Rob Ford, finding comfort in the fact that Mr. Ford at least has toppled Canada’s “reputation for monotonous, self-effacing reserve.”
加拿大CBC新闻(CBC News)驻华盛顿高级记者尼尔·麦克唐纳(Neil Macdonald)一直在尽职尽责地曝光多伦多市长罗伯·福特(Rob Ford)的一系列不当行为，这位市长不仅吸食快克可卡因，而且有纵酒狂欢的喜好。让麦克唐纳颇感欣慰的是，福特至少已经颠覆了加拿大“单调无聊、自我压抑的形象”。
But as Mr. Ford’s follies continue to play out, particularly as comedy fodder for global groundlings glued to cable news and the Internet, Mr. Macdonald has led his “dear American neighbors” to an unavoidable conclusion: “The reality is Rob Ford is our ultimate contribution to the big American freak show. You can’t get enough of him, and neither can we,” wrote the reporter (who previously specialized in the arcane intrigues and personalities of the Middle East).
但是，随着福特的丑事一件件曝光，尤其是被全世界盯着电视新闻和网络的观众当做笑料，麦克唐纳让他“亲爱的美国邻居”看到了一个无法回避的结论：“事实上，罗伯·福特是我们对大型美国畸形秀做出的极大贡献。你们不会对他感到厌倦，我们也不会，”这位记者写道（他之前的专长是中东地区的神秘阴谋和人物）。
American freak show? We thought this was a voyeur’s window on Canada. But Mr. Macdonald’s point is apt, and not just because it was the American gossip site Gawker that broke the news that there was a video of Mayor Ford smoking crack.
美国畸形秀？我们原本认为，这只是为我们提供的一扇偷窥加拿大的窗户。然而，麦克唐纳的观点确有道理，这不仅因为是美国流言网站Gawker率先透露了关于福特市长吸食可卡因的视频录像的消息。
The 44-year-old son of a wealthy manufacturer, Mr. Ford smartly won election three years ago with a strategy that’s all-too familiar to Americans. He ran as a “stop the gravy train,” “mad-as-hell” champion of the disaffected middle class.
福特是一个富裕制造商的儿子，今年44岁。三年前，他聪明地利用美国人非常熟悉的战略赢得了选举。他在竞选中承诺要“制止少劳多得现象”，为愤愤不平的中产阶级扮演了一个“义愤填膺”的支持者。
Once Mayor Ford had to admit to buying and consuming illegal drugs, he took on the role of an aggrieved court jester, appealing to the “little guy” for understanding, and instantly galvanized the news-as-entertainment loop long existing between the United States and Canada. He quickly began bingeing on American media interviews, flashing the populist card in vowing “outright war” against the city council’s decision to strip him of most his powers of office. The mayor of Toronto’s getting more coverage than any mayor on our side of the border.
不得不承认曾购买并吸食非法毒品之后，福特市长扮演了一个受尽委屈的宫廷小丑的角色，呼吁“小人物”理解他，并立即触发了美国和加拿大之间长期存在的新闻娱乐循环。福特迅速开始积极接受美国媒体的采访，大打民粹主义牌，发誓要对市议会剥夺他大部分职权的决定展开“全面战争”。多伦多市长获得的报道多于我国的任何一名市长。
The council’s problem, and Toronto’s, is that there is no law allowing the mayor to be impeached or fully removed from sight and from office. Mr. Ford’s problem is that his shelf life as a media distraction depends on fresh revelations.
市议会及多伦多的问题是，加拿大不存在相关的法律，没法让福特遭受弹劾，或让他从大众视野及办公室完全消失。福特的问题是，他作为媒体娱乐的有效期长短取决于新的爆料。
His brother, city councilman Doug Ford, a loyal spear-carrier through all this, suggested a badly needed closing act when he noted Mayor Ford has begun to express interest in serving as Canadian prime minister.
福特担任市议员的哥哥道格·福特(Doug Ford)在整件事情中扮演了忠诚的配角，他展示了一个急需的尾幕——指出福特市长已经开始表示对担任加拿大总理的兴趣。