In the course of her very long and peripatetic career, Doris Lessing has done just about everything, from naturalism to psychological realism, from postmodern experimentation to moralistic fable-making, from science fiction to horror stories. She has evoked the Africa of her youth, postwar London and the chilly latitudes of outer space.
在她十分漫长而飘摇的事业中，多丽丝·莱辛(Doris Lessing)几乎涉及各个领域，从自然主义到心理现实主义，从后现代实验小说到道德寓言，从科幻小说到恐怖小说。她描写年轻时待过的非洲，战后的伦敦，以及外太空的寒冷地带。
She has chronicled the 20th century’s utopian search for defining ideas — be they communism, feminism or psychology — and the fallout that such ideas have had on the lives of women trying to find an identity of their own.
她记录了20世纪人们对一些重要理念的乌托邦式追求——不管是共产主义、女性主义还是心理学——以及这些理念对努力寻找自身价值的女性产生的影响。
Ms. Lessing’s childhood in Rhodesia seems to have heightened her awareness of the inequities of race and class and the inescapable connection between the political and the personal. And regardless of their setting, her books have tended to pivot around certain persistent themes: the relationship between the individual and society; the tension between domesticity and freedom, responsibility and independence; and the tug of war between human will and the imperatives of love, betrayal and ideological faith. This dynamic has often resulted in books with an air of impending disaster and humorless gloom, featuring people who are defined more by their problems than their dreams, people caught, like fish in a net, in the tumultuous, troubled zeitgeist of 20th-century Africa and England.
莱辛在罗德西亚度过的童年似乎让她深刻意识到了种族和阶级的不平等，以及政治和个人之间无法回避的联系。尽管她的书背景各不相同，但总是围绕着下面这些主题：个人和社会的联系，家庭生活和自由之间的矛盾，责任和独立之间的冲突，人类意志与爱、背叛以及思想信仰的力量之间的拉锯战。所以她的书中充满了灾难即将到来的气氛和严肃的阴郁，里面的人物充满了问题，而不是梦想，人们像是落入网中的鱼，在20世纪非洲和英国狂乱的时代大潮中挣扎。
In the first volume of her autobiography, “Under My Skin,” Ms. Lessing described herself as a young girl, watching her parents sitting side by side in front of their house in the Rhodesian countryside, their faces tense and full of anxiety: “There they are, together, stuck together, held there by poverty and — much worse — secret and inadmissible needs that come from deep in their two so different histories. They seem to me intolerable, pathetic, unbearable, it is their helplessness that I can’t bear.” She vows never to forget this scene, never to be like her parents: “Meaning,” she wrote, “never let yourself be trapped. In other words, I was rejecting the human condition, which is to be trapped by circumstances.”
在她的自传《在我皮肤之下》(Under My Skin)的第一卷中，莱辛描绘了她很小的时候在罗德西亚的乡村看到的一幕：父母并肩坐在房前，脸色凝重，充满焦虑：“他们一起被困在那里，受制于贫穷，更糟糕的是，受制于他们十分不同的背景所带来的秘密的、不被接纳的需求。在我看来，他们让人难以忍受、十分可悲，而正是他们的无助让我难以忍受。”她发誓永远不能忘记这一幕，永远不能像她的父母那样：“意思就是，”她写道，“永远不要让自己被困住。也就是说，我拒绝接受人类的处境——被环境束缚的处境。”
A similar determination informs the choices made by many of Ms. Lessing’s heroines, from Martha Quest in the “Children of Violence” series through Anna Wulf in “The Golden Notebook” (1962) — women who find that intelligence and talent do not ensure success or control, women who must grapple with “the hazards and chances of being a free woman” at a time when “women’s emotions are still fitted for a kind of society which no longer exists.” Ms. Lessing, Mary McGrory once observed, “writes about her own sex with the unrelenting intensity of Simone de Beauvoir, and about sex itself with the frankness and detail of John O’Hara.”
莱辛笔下的很多女主人公都下过类似的决心，从《暴力的孩子们》(Children of Violence)系列中的玛莎·奎斯特(Martha Quest)到《金色笔记》(The Golden Notebook, 1962)中的安娜·沃尔夫(Anna Wulfa)，她们发现聪明和天分不能确保你拥有成功或控制力，当“女人们的情感仍适用于那个不再存在的社会”时，她们必须“克服万难，争取做自由女性的机会”。玛丽·麦格罗里(Mary McGrory)曾说，莱辛“用西蒙娜·德·波伏娃(Simone de Beauvoir)式的不屈不挠来描写自己的性爱，用约翰·奥哈拉(John O’Hara)式的坦诚和细致来描写性爱本身”。
“The Golden Notebook,” acclaimed by many critics as Ms. Lessing’s masterpiece, was innovative not only in its psychological acuity, providing an emotionally detailed portrait of a woman frightened of chaos and breakdown, but also in its unorthodox structure, separating Anna’s experiences into four notebooks (black, red, yellow and blue), dealing with disparate aspects of her life. Out of these pieces can come something new and transformative, Ms. Lessing suggested: a fifth, golden notebook, where “things have come together, the divisions have broken down” and there is the promise of unity.
《金色笔记》被很多批评家称赞为莱辛的代表作，它的革新之处不仅在于其心理敏锐度——它描写了一个女人害怕混乱和崩溃的心理细节；而且在于它不同寻常的结构——它把安娜的经历分成四本笔记（黑色、红色、黄色和蓝色），描写她人生的各个不同的方面。莱辛认为，某种新的、变革性的东西能从这些笔记中衍生出来，形成第五本金色的笔记本，在那里“事情汇聚到一起，区分被打破”，能看到统一的希望。
In the 1980s, Ms. Lessing traded in the microscope she’d trained on the human psyche for a telescope aimed at distant stars and galaxies, producing “Canopus in Argos: Archives,” a cycle of visionary novels set in outer space and fueled by a belief in Sufi mysticism. Though some of these novels contained passages of lyrical writing — quite at odds with her customarily utilitarian prose — the stories evinced little of the passionate interest in the human anthropology that had animated her earlier books. Some of them were moralistic fables about good and evil; others were more social-political satires in the tradition of Jonathan Swift. Ms. Lessing took a similar tack in her 1999 novel “Mara and Dann,” a fable set in the distant future, thousands and thousands of years after a great ice age has destroyed civilization.
20世纪80年代，莱辛放下她审视人类心理的显微镜，拿起指向遥远星球和星系的望远镜，出版了《阿哥斯的老人星：档案》(Canopus in Argos: Archives)，那是一系列以外太空为背景的幻想小说，受苏菲神秘派信仰启发。虽然这些小说含有一些抒情描写的段落——这与她一贯的实用主义文风很不一致——但是这些故事几乎完全没有她早期作品中对人类学的强烈兴趣。有些故事是关于善恶的道德寓言；还有些是乔纳森·斯威夫特(Jonathan Swift)式的社会政治讽刺故事。莱辛1999年的小说《玛莎和丹恩》(Mara and Dann)采用了类似的手法，这个寓言故事以遥远的未来为背景，讲述的是冰河纪毁灭人类文明几百万年之后的事。
In later books like “Ben, in the World,” “The Sweetest Dream” and “The Grandmothers,” Ms. Lessing struggled to integrate her gifts: her matter-of-fact ability to conjure a specific place and time, already on display in her first novel “The Grass Is Singing,” her psychological insight and eye for sociological detail honed in the Martha Quest novels and her later penchant for fairy-tale allegories and sci-fi perambulations.
在她的后期作品，比如《本在世界上》(Ben, in the World)、《最甜蜜的梦》(The Sweetest Dream)和《祖母们》(The Grandmothers)中，莱辛努力把她的天分整合到一起：比如她从第一本小说《野草在歌唱》(The Grass Is Singing)便表现出来的，在不动声色中构想出一个特定时空的能力；她在《玛莎·奎斯特》系列小说中磨练出来的心理洞察力和社会细节观察力；以及后来她对童话式寓言和科幻式漫游的偏爱。
Ms. Lessing herself has said she sees all her forays into different genres and styles as part of a single, golden continuum: “I see inner space and outer space as reflections of each other,” she once declared. “I don’t see them as in opposition. Just as we are investigating subatomic particles and the outer limits of the planetary system — the large and the small simultaneously — so the inner and the outer are connected.”
莱辛本人说过，她认为自己在不同体裁和风格中的所有冒险都是一个金色连续统一体的构成部分。“我觉得内心世界和外太空是彼此的反映，”她曾宣称，“我不认为它们是对立的。就像我们同时研究亚原子粒子和行星系一样——我们同时研究宏大和微小的东西——所以内部和外部是相通的。”