TORONTO — The end did not come for Rob Ford, the mayor of this city, when he proclaimed his proclivity for oral sex on live television.
多伦多——当本市市长罗伯·福特(Rob Ford)在电视直播节目上宣布他有口交癖好时，他的政治生涯并没因此结束。
It did not come when the police confirmed that they had a video of him smoking crack, something he had repeatedly denied, nor when he showed up drunk at a quaint local festival, careened equally plastered on a dance floor, or when the local Santa parade told him to please stay away.
当警方证实，发现一段视频显示福特在吸食可卡因时——福特曾多次否认视频内容——他职业生涯的终点还是没有到来。福特也曾醉醺醺地出现在一个当地的特色节日上，彻底醉倒在舞池里，而当地的圣诞花车游行队伍则请他别加入进来，这些都没有为他的仕途画上句号。
It did not even come Monday, during a City Council meeting at which members voted to take away most of his budget and staff while he cantered around the chamber, heckling voters and knocking a City Council member to the ground.
周一，在市议会举行的会议上，议员投票裁减福特的大部分预算支出、精简其幕僚，与此同时，福特在整个会议室里跑来跑去，责问投票者，并将一名议员撞倒在地，即便这时，福特还是没有下台。
It seems Mr. Ford, who, absent a decision to quit, will remain at the helm of Canada’s largest and most affluent city at least until his term ends next year. He says he has far too many phone calls left to make.
看样子，只要福特不辞职，他将继续执掌这座加拿大最大最富有的城市，至少持续到明年他的任期结束。福特说，他还有太多电话要打。
“Are you aware that 2,200 people call me?” Mr. Ford repeatedly said on Monday, adding that he also gets 138,000 emails a year that require a response, by way of explaining why he ought to keep his budget and staff. “I’m still doing the job!”
“你知道有2200人给我打电话吗？”福特在周一时反复说道，并表示每年他还会收到13.8万份需要回复的邮件，来解释他为什么应该保留预算和幕僚。“我还在做这份工作呢！”
Mr. Ford, who rode to power in 2010 on a populist wave of suburban rage after 10 years as a city councilor, has a long and well-known history of profane, intemperate outbursts. But his recent behavior, which has mortified many of his constituents, has also enhanced his appeal with many of his core voters — working-class residents of the unified suburbs, the people he calls the Ford Nation.
2010年，郊区民众的强烈不满催生了一股民粹主义风潮，福特借机上台。此前10年，他一直是一名市议员，长期以来，福特都以言辞不敬的过激咆哮而闻名。但福特最近的表现，虽然让很多市民倍感尴尬，却也进一步提高了他对很多核心选民的吸引力——合并后的郊区的工人阶层居民，他把这些人称作“福特族”。
But in the six months since The Toronto Star and the website Gawker first reported viewing a video of the mayor smoking crack, his support has plummeted among the wealthy conservative voters in the city’s core who once liked his antitax message.
但自从《多伦多星报》(Toronto Star)和网站Gawker最初报道看到了市长吸食可卡因的视频，6个月以来，福特在本市中心地区的富有保守选民中的支持率骤降，这些选民曾对福特传达的反征税讯息表示欢迎。
On Monday, the council voted to cut the mayor’s budget by 60 percent, leaving him with a skeletal staff. They have also eliminated most of his authority, important powers like appointing key city leaders and responding to emergencies, leaving him as little more than the face of Toronto, the role he nevertheless relishes most. Under local law, the council has no authority to impeach or remove the mayor, nor can it hold a recall campaign.
周一，市议会投票决定将市长的预算削减60%，只给他留下了为数不多的幕僚。他们也剥夺了福特的大多实权，比如任命主要城市领导者以及应对紧急情况等重要权力，差不多让他只剩下了对外代表多伦多的角色。不过，这也是他最钟爱的角色。根据当地法律，市议会无权弹劾或罢免市长，也不能开展让他下台的运动。
Undaunted, Mr. Ford has indicated he will test the council’s unprecedented moves in court. “What is happening today is not a Democratic process,” he said. “It’s a dictatorship process.”
福特并未就此屈服，他表示，自己将在法庭上挑战议会这些史无前例的举措。“现在发生的一切并不是个民主的过程，”他说。“这是个独裁过程。”
For the lawmakers and people of Toronto, known to much of the world as a cosmopolitan city with copious bike lanes, hockey’s Maple Leafs and general placidity, the endurance of Mr. Ford, so rotund and erratic that he often appears on the brink of spontaneous explosion, has become nothing short of an obsession.
多伦多是世界著名的国际化都市，因其诸多的自行车道、枫叶冰球队以及安详静谧的整体氛围而知名，对这里的议员和市民而言，对矮胖古怪并经常看上去即将勃然发作的福特的忍耐已变成了一种痴迷。
“I just had to see this for myself,” said Lynn Murray, a retired teacher, who sat riveted in the council chamber as Mr. Ford spoke.
“我只是需要自己亲眼看看，”退休教师莲恩·默里(Lynn Murray)说。福特讲话时，她坐在议会会议室里目不转睛地看着他。
“This place used to be so civilized.”
“这个地方过去曾那么文明。”
The majority of his fellow council members wish he would simply go away.
大多数议员只希望福特离开。
“This is a real crisis,” said Sarah Doucette, a council member. “The impact on our city is that we’ve become a laughingstock. How can we encourage business to move here?”
“这是场真正的危机，”议员萨拉·杜塞特(Sarah Doucette)说。“这已经影响到了我们的城市，我们成了笑料。我们还怎么鼓励企业来这里做生意？”
Ms. Doucette said she gets loads of emails from concerned parents; in the High Park area, children have taken to a schoolyard game called, “Cops and Rob Ford.”
杜塞特说她会收到大量来自担心的父母的邮件；在高地公园地区，孩子们开始在学校操场上玩一个叫做“警察和罗伯·福特”的游戏。
Just a decade ago, Mr. Ford was a brash if marginal lawmaker from Etobicoke, a suburb with a large working-class and immigrant population in the western edge of Toronto, one of several small cities that became part of a large-scale Toronto under unification in 1998. Etobicoke and some of the other suburbs have not seen the same explosive economic growth as the old city, where real estate, arts, money and cultural life have flourished. The old Toronto values, particularly discouraging the use of cars, clashed with those suburbanites.
仅在10年前，福特还是一名来自怡陶碧谷的议员，虽然盛气凌人，但影响力有限。怡陶碧谷位于多伦多西郊，有大量工人阶层民众和移民，曾是一座小城的它在1998年区域合并时，和其他几所小城一起成为了大多伦多的一部分。怡陶碧谷和一些其他郊区没有像老城一样，经历爆炸式的经济发展，因而未能也在房地产、艺术、金融和文化生活领域繁荣发展。传统的多伦多价值观，尤其是不提倡使用汽车的理念，和郊区居民的价值观发生了冲突。
As a councilor Mr. Ford usually took positions to the right of his conservative peers, often on the wrong side of 42-to-2 votes. “I was astonished when he became mayor,” said John Filion, the council member who wrote the measure to strip Mr. Ford of his budget.
作为一名市议员，福特的立场通常会比其保守党同僚更为右翼，他往往会在42比2的投票中站在2票一边。草拟剥夺福特预算的提案的议员约翰·菲利翁(John Filion)说，“当他成为市长时，我惊呆了。”
In 2009, when Mr. Ford first flirted with the idea of running for mayor, Mr. Filion said he bet Mr. Ford $20 that he would never do it. Mr. Ford, insulted, raised the ante to $1,000, and Mr. Filion ran to 10 colleagues to say, “Is it worth $100 to each of you to get rid of Rob Ford?”
2009年，当福特第一次兴起竞选市长的念头时，菲利翁说，他出20美元打赌福特绝不可能这么做。感觉受辱的福特把赌注提到了1000美元，菲利翁向10名同僚求助说，“你们愿不愿意每人出100美元，把罗伯·福特赶走？”
But Mr. Ford found himself riding a populist antitax wave, especially after a garbage strike in the city soured many residents on unions, and the left-leaning incumbent decided not to run again for mayor.
可是福特发现，自己赶上了民粹主义的反税收浪潮。尤其是在城市垃圾清运工大罢工之后，许多居民和本地工会的关系出现恶化。当时，左倾的在任市长决定不再竞选连任。
Further, after years of pent-up resentments, suburban voters were ready for one of their own. Mr. Ford embodied their rage, promising to “end the gravy train” of excess spending and what he called “the war on cars.”
不仅如此，在愤恨情绪积压了多年之后，郊区选民准备选择一名自己人当市长。而福特和他们一样充满怒火，他承诺要“终结”过度支出带来的“轻松捞到好处的机会”，终结他口中的“针对汽车的战争”。
While Rob was the first member of his family to follow its patriarch, Rob Ford Sr., a member of the provincial legislature who died in 2006, into elected politics, a court document released last week indicated that his brother Doug, a member of City Council, is the real political power in the family.
罗伯是家族内首位追随其父老罗伯·福特(Rob Ford Sr.)进入选举政治圈的孩子，老罗伯曾是省议会的议员，在2006年去世。上周公布的一份法庭文件显示，他的兄弟道格才是家族内真正的政治家。道格是市议会的议员。
The mayor, one of his former aides told the police, “loves to do the small stuff, the customer service.”
福特的一名前助手对警方说，市长“喜欢做小事，客户服务一类的事情。”
“The strategic stuff is all Doug Ford,” the aide told the police, according to the document.
据该份文件透露，这名助手对警方说，“战略性事务都由道格·福特操持。”
Doug Ford often speaks on his brother’s behalf in meetings.
道格·福特常常在会议上代表弟弟发言。
Further, in spite of his Everyman imagine, much of Rob Ford’s political career has been funded by the family’s lucrative label printing business, which Doug Ford managed and expanded.
而且，与其普通人的形象不符的是，罗伯·福特大部分的政治生涯，都是由家族内利润丰厚的标示印刷企业资助的，打理和扩张该业务的正是道格·福特。
But Mr. Ford’s antics, especially his use of crack, have increasingly haunted his mayoralty, as more and more bizarre anecdotes have emerged, many reported by The Toronto Star, which has become Mr. Ford’s nemesis, breaking the story of his drug use long before the police confirmed it.
不过，罗伯·福特的古怪举止，尤其是吸食可卡因的行为，已让他的市长之位越来越岌岌可危。与此同时，越来越多的奇闻轶事也都涌现出来，其中的许多事情是《多伦多星报》报道出来的。该报已成为福特的克星，早在警方确认之前，它就曝光了福特吸食毒品的新闻，。
To Mr. Ford’s supporters, he is the victim of a hard-ball news media campaign.
对福特的支持者而言，他是一场手段强硬的新闻媒体运动的打击对象。
Each week has brought reports of a new indiscretion. During a news conference last week, Mr. Ford denied the latest allegation — that he had sexual harassed a former staff member — by denying allegations that he had offered her oral sex.
每周都会出现福特行为不检点的新报道。在上周的新闻发布会上，福特否认了最新的性骚扰一名前下属的指控，他否认自己曾要求为对方进行口交。
He then dragged his wife, Renata, looking miserable, before a string of cameras .
他随后把自己的妻子蕾娜塔(Renata)拉到了一排摄像镜头前，后者看上去一脸憔悴。
On Monday, after hours of dry debate on the legalities of the council’s actions, Doug Ford, a strong conservative with a long history of being combative, suddenly began mocking hecklers in the packed public gallery. Gesturing at one man to come down to the floor, he repeatedly said: “Bring it on, big guy.”
周一，在对市议会行动的合法性进行了几小时的枯燥辩论之后，素来好战的强硬保守派道格·福特突然开始嘲弄旁听席上的起哄者。他示意一名男子从挤满了人的旁听席下场，他反复地说：“来啊，大家伙。”
At another point, Rob Ford raised his fist and shouted “Socialism’s great!”
另一个时刻，罗伯·福特举起拳头大喊，“社会主义很棒！”
He also stomped around as the gallery became increasingly disorderly, shaking supporters’ hands, but he was soon barraged by shouts and boos.
当旁听席变得越来越乱时，罗伯还四处走动，和支持者握手，不过，他很快就迎来一片呵斥和嘘声。
The mayor, apparently coming to his brother’s aid, began running and knocked over a council member, Pam McConnell, a five-foot tall grandmother who was no match for the mayor, a former football player. The crowd began chanting “Shame, shame, shame.”
市长似乎要向哥哥伸出援手，他跑动起来，撞倒了议员帕姆·麦康奈尔(Pam McConnell)。这个身高五英尺（约合1.5米）的祖母明显不是曾当过橄榄球运动员的市长的对手。人群开始呼喊，“不要脸、不要脸、不要脸。”
With Monday’s vote, the City Council hopes Toronto can move on somewhat, even as Mr. Ford remains the titular face of government. Norm Kelly, the deputy mayor, who will assume most of Mr. Ford’s powers, said after Monday’s vote: “My goals are first to restore the confidence of public in the government of Toronto. Secondly, to repair the damage in the relationships of the members of council. Finally, to focus on the business of the city.”
通过周一的表决，市议会希望多伦多多少能够抛开这一切，虽然此刻福特依然是政府名义上的门面。副市长诺姆·凯利(Norm Kelly)接管了福特的大部分权力，他在周一的表决后说：“我的目标是，首先重建民众对多伦多市政府的信心。其次，修复议员之间受损的关系。最后，集中精力处理本市事务。”