OTTAWA, Ontario — At least 10 people were killed and 15 were injured Monday when a man drove a white van onto the sidewalk along one of Toronto’s main thoroughfares, spreading carnage and fear through the country’s largest metropolis, authorities and witnesses said.
安大略省渥太华——当局和目击者称，周一，一名男子驾驶一辆白色厢式货车冲上多伦多一条主干道的人行道，造成至少10人死亡，15人受伤，令加拿大最大的城市弥漫着大屠杀的恐慌情绪。
The van struck a man crossing Yonge Street before it jumped the curb near Mel Lastman Square and sped down the sidewalk at 40 mph, witnesses said, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake.
目击者称，这辆车先是在央街撞倒一名过街的男子，然后在梅尔拉斯特曼广场附近冲上路沿，以40英里（约合64公里）的时速在人行道上行驶，留下惨不忍睹的景象。
The driver was taken into custody after a dramatic confrontation with police that was captured on video. “Shoot me in the head,” he yelled before he was detained.
在与警方激烈对抗后，司机被捕。一段视频拍下了当时的场面。“朝我头上开枪，”他在拘捕前喊道。
It was one of the worst mass killings in the modern history of Canada.
这是加拿大现代历史上最严重的大规模杀戮事件之一。
“There were a lot of pedestrians out, a lot of witnesses out, enjoying the sunny afternoon,” said Peter Yuen, deputy chief of the Toronto police service. “I ask the city of Toronto to pray for our victims and to help the Toronto police service bring this matter to a successful conclusion.”
“有很多行人，很多目击者，都在享受阳光明媚的午后时光，”多伦多警局副警察总长源植勉(Peter Yuen)说。“我请求多伦多市为我们的受害者祈祷，并帮助多伦多警察局让这件事成功结案。”
John Flengas, acting EMS supervisor for Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center, which said it received seven victims from the scene, told CTV News on Monday that “multiple people were injured, multiple people were deceased.”
桑尼布鲁克健康医学中心(Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center)称其从现场接收了七名受害者。周一当天，该中心代理急救服务主任约翰·弗伦加斯(John Flengas)告诉CTV新闻，“多人受伤，多人死亡。”
Flengas described the scene of the episode as “pure carnage” and said there were “victims everywhere.”
弗伦加斯称事件现场“纯粹是大屠杀”，说“到处都是受害者”。
Images posted on social media appeared to show bodies lying on a broad, tree-lined sidewalk near a pedestrian plaza, and some of them appeared to have been covered with blankets.
发在社交媒体上的图片似乎显示，在一个步行广场附近，受害者躺在一条宽阔的、路边种着树的人行道上，其中一些人似乎被毯子盖上了。
Meaghan Gray, a spokeswoman for Toronto police, said authorities received a report at 1:30 p.m. Monday that a white van had mounted the curb near Yonge Street and Finch Avenue West. The driver was in custody roughly 90 minutes later, she said.
多伦多警方发言人米根·格雷(Meaghan Gray)说，当局周一下午1点30分接到报警，得知一辆白色厢式货车在央街和芬治大道西附近开上了路沿。她说，大约90分钟后，司机被控制住。
Stephan Powell, a spokesman for the Toronto Fire Department, said there were “numerous casualties” after pedestrians were “hit by vehicle at least two locations.”
多伦多消防局(Toronto Fire Department)的发言人史蒂芬·鲍威尔(Stephan Powell)说，“肇事车辆在至少两个地方撞倒”行人后，造成了“大量人员伤亡”。
Constable Jenifferjit Sidhu, another police spokeswoman, said that authorities did not know “the cause or reason for the collision.”
警方另一名发言人詹妮弗吉特·西杜(Jenifferjit Sidhu)警官说，当局尚不清楚“此次冲撞行人事件的起因和缘由”。