TORONTO — Ending six months of often vehement denial, Rob Ford, the mayor of Toronto, admitted on Tuesday that he had smoked crack cocaine while in office, but said he would not resign.
多伦多——在经历六个月的极力否认之后，多伦多市长罗伯·福特(Rob Ford)于周二承认自己在任职期间曾吸食快克可卡因，但他表示自己不会辞职。
“You asked me a question back in May, and you can repeat that question,” Mr. Ford told a crush of journalists, photographers and camera operators outside his City Hall office in the late morning. “Yes, I have smoked crack cocaine. But no, do I — am I an addict? No. Have I tried it? Probably, in one of my drunken stupors, probably approximately about a year ago.”
当天近午时候，福特对一群聚集在他市政厅办公室外的记者、摄影师及摄像师表示，“你们在5月问了我一个问题，现在可以重复一遍。”他说，“是的，我吸食过快克可卡因。但是，我是个瘾君子吗？不。我尝试过这种东西吗？也许吧，那是在我烂醉如泥的时候，多半已经是一年前的事情了。”
During his brief, impromptu news conference, Mr. Ford insisted that he had not been lying since May, when he first denied reports that he had used crack. At that time, the blog Gawker and The Toronto Star both reported having seen a video clip that apparently showed him inhaling cocaine. Questions intensified last week after the city’s police chief, William Blair, said his force had obtained the video, stored on a computer that was seized in an investigation of drug and gang violence.
在简短的临时新闻发布会上，福特坚称自己自5月以来始终没有撒谎，当时他首次对自己吸食可卡因的报道予以否认。那时候，博客网站Gawker和《多伦多星报》(The Toronto Star)报道称，他们看到了一个视频片段，视频明显显示福特在吸食可卡因。上周，多伦多市警察局长威廉·布莱尔(William Blair)表示，警方在调查毒品及黑帮暴力时没收了一台电脑，并在电脑中发现了这段视频，问题随之激化。
“I wasn’t lying — you didn’t ask the correct questions,” Mr. Ford said on Tuesday. “No, I’m not an addict, and no, I do not do drugs. I made mistakes in the past, and all I can do is apologize, but it is what it is.”
“当时我没有说谎，是你们的问题问得不对，”福特在周二说。“不，我不是瘾君子，也没有吸毒。我过去犯了错误，眼下能做的事情就是道歉，事实仅此而已。”
Of the episode recorded in the video, he said: “I don’t even remember. Some of the stuff that you guys have seen me — the state I’ve been in? It’s a problem.”
关于前述视频记录的场景，福特说，“我甚至都不记得了。你们看到了我的一些情况，看到了我当时的状态吗？这是个问题。”
About four and half hours after his admission, Mr. Ford appeared in an anteroom to his office crowded with reporters and photographers. His defiant tone of earlier in the day was replaced by expressions of regret and remorse.
在承认吸食可卡因大约四个半小时后，福特出现在通往其办公室的前厅里，那里聚集了大量记者和摄影师。他改变了当天早些时候目中无人的语气，表达了悔意。
“To the residents of Toronto: I know I have let you down and I cannot do anything else other than apologize,” said Mr. Ford, near tears at times. “I’m so sorry. I know, I know I have to regain your trust and your confidence.”
“致多伦多的居民，我知道我让你们失望了，我所能做的只有道歉，”福特说，说话时多次几欲落泪。“非常抱歉。我知道，我知道我必须重新赢得你们的信任。”
But he was equally adamant that he would not heed calls to step down, even temporarily. “I love my job, I love the city, I love saving taxpayers money and I love being your mayor,” Mr. Ford said. “I was elected to do a job and that’s exactly what I’m going to continue doing.”
但是，他同样固执地表示，他不会理会让他下台的要求，即便是暂时性的下台。“我热爱我的工作，热爱这座城市，我喜欢帮纳税者省钱，喜欢当你们的市长，”福特说。“这份工作是我通过选举得来的，而这也正是我要继续做的事情。”
On Sunday, during a weekly radio talk show that he co-hosts with his brother Doug, a city councilman, Mr. Ford apologized for occasionally getting drunk, but did not address the cocaine issue.
福特与他担任市议员的哥哥道格·福特(Doug Ford)共同主持着一个周播电台谈话节目。周日，福特在节目中对偶尔的醉酒表示了道歉，但并未提及可卡因一事。
It was not clear why the mayor changed course on Tuesday. His admission only increased the calls from City Council members, opponents and allies alike for him to step down, at least temporarily.
目前尚不清楚他为何在周二做出改变。他承认吸食可卡因的做法只会让市议员、反对者和同盟者更加激烈地要求他下台，至少是暂时下台。
“I think he’s lost the moral authority to lead,” Denzil Minnan-Wong, a longtime supporter of the mayor, told reporters outside the mayor’s office shortly afterward. “We’re in uncharted territory.”
“我认为，他已经失去了担任领导的道德权威，”福特承认吸食可卡因之后不久，他的长期支持者黄旻南(Denzil Minnan-Wong)在市长办公室外告诉记者。“这种情况前所未有。”
John Filion, an opponent on the Council, said he had filed a motion to strip the mayor of most of his powers. “The train wreck is happening,” Mr. Filion said, “and we need to get rid of this distraction.”
市议会反对派人士约翰·菲利翁(John Filion)称，他已经提出一项动议，要剥夺这名市长的大部分权力。“灾难已经发生，”菲利翁说，“我们必须消除这种影响。”
Several municipal-law experts, however, said that neither the Council nor the provincial government of Ontario had the power to remove Mr. Ford from office.
然而，几名市政法律专家表示，市议会和安大略省政府都无权免除福特的职位。
Both Mr. Ford and his brother had repeatedly insisted that the allegations of drug use were little more than a smear campaign by the news media, particularly The Toronto Star, which has also reported on several public occasions during which Mr. Ford acted boorishly and appeared to be impaired.
福特和他的哥哥反复宣称，关于吸食毒品的指控只不过是媒体——尤其是《多伦多星报》——对他的污蔑。该报还对福特在几个公共场合不知所措的笨拙表现进行了报道。
About two hours before the mayor’s admission to reporters, Doug Ford extended his attack to take in Chief Blair, who told reporters last week concerning the video clip that “as a citizen of the city, I am disappointed.”
罗伯·福特向记者承认吸毒大约两小时前，道格·福特把警察局长布莱尔列入了攻击范围，后者上周在提到视频片段时告诉记者，“作为本市市民，我深感失望。”
Doug Ford, his hands noticeably trembling, said at a news conference that the remark showed that the police chief was biased, and he called for Chief lair to step aside until all the investigations related to the mayor were finished.
双手明显颤抖的道格·福特在新闻发布会上说，这种说法表明警察局长对此事持有偏见。他还要求布莱尔不要插手，直到关于市长的所有调查结束为止。
“It’s not up to the police chief to decide in the next election who’s going to be the mayor,” Doug Ford said. “It’s up to the people, and he’s lost track of that. He believes, again, he’s the judge, jury and executioner, and he’s not.”
“下一次选举中谁将成为市长，并不由警察局长决定，”道格·福特说。“这得由人民决定，他没弄明白这一点。还有，他以为自己同时担任着法官、陪审团和刽子手，但他并不是。”