BEIRUT — Egypt, Saudi Arabia and three other Arab countries severed all ties with Qatar early Monday, in a renewal of a four-year effort to isolate it and in a sign of a new boldness after a visit to the region by President Donald Trump.
贝鲁特——埃及、沙特阿拉伯和另外三个阿拉伯国家周一早些时候切断了与卡塔尔的所有联系，这是四年来它们努力孤立卡塔尔的最新发展，表明它们在唐纳德·特朗普总统访问该地区之后变得更加大胆。
In an abrupt move that surprised many in the region, the five Arab states not only suspended diplomatic relations, as they have in the past, but also cut off land, air and sea travel to and from Qatar and ordered their citizens to leave the country.
在这个令该地区很多人感到震惊的突然举动中，这五个阿拉伯国家不仅像过去那样中断了与卡塔尔的外交关系，还切断了与它的海陆空联系，并要求本国公民离开卡塔尔。
Qatar, like other monarchies in the Persian Gulf, is a close ally of Washington, and it hosts a major U.S. military base that commands the U.S.-led air campaign against the Islamic State group.
跟波斯湾的其他君主制国家一样，卡塔尔也是华盛顿的亲密盟友，美国在那里设有一处大型军事基地，指挥美国领导的打击伊斯兰国团体(Islamic State group)的空中行动。
As such, the feud among regional allies threatens to stress the operations of the U.S.-led coalition and complicate efforts in the region to confront Iran — but could also be a heavy economic blow to Tehran, if Qatar is forced to sever ties.
因此，该区域盟友之间的互相敌视有可能会影响到美国领导的联盟开展行动，让该地区对抗伊朗的努力变得复杂起来——但如果卡塔尔被迫切断和伊朗的联系，也可能对德黑兰造成沉重的经济打击。
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson offered Monday to broker the impasse in hopes of preserving the Trump administration’s efforts to create broad coalitions against Iran and terrorist groups in the Middle East.
国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)周一表示愿意进行斡旋打破僵局，希望能维护特朗普政府为打击伊朗和中东地区恐怖主义集团而结成广泛联盟的努力。
“We certainly would encourage the parties to sit down together and address these differences,” Tillerson said.
“我们当然会鼓励各方坐下来解决这些分歧，”蒂勒森说。
The severing of all connections by Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen created an immediate crisis for Qatar.
巴林、埃及、沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国和也门切断了和卡塔尔的所有联系，这给卡塔尔立刻带来了危机。
Qatar imports almost all of its food, about 40 percent of it directly from Saudi Arabia. There were reports of runs on food markets after the announcements Monday.
卡塔尔的食物几乎全部依靠进口，约40%来自沙特阿拉伯。周一的消息公布后，有报道称一些食品超市出现抢购。
Saudi Arabia said it was taking the action to “protect its national security from the dangers of terrorism and extremism.” The Foreign Ministry of Qatar released a statement saying the action had “no basis in fact” and was “unjustified.”
沙特阿拉伯说，他们是在采取行动“保护国家安全免受恐怖主义和极端主义的危害”。卡塔尔外交部发表声明说，这一举动“没有实际依据”，是“不合理的”。
There was no other clear event in the region that might have precipitated the renewal of the campaign against Qatar. But it followed a recent visit to Saudi Arabia by Trump, who made clear that he strongly backed Saudi Arabia in its push against both Iran and against Muslim Brotherhood-style Islamist groups. Trump’s support may have helped encourage the other Sunni states to renew their campaign against Qatar as well.
该地区没有其他明显事件导致这些国家突然重拾对卡塔尔的孤立。但这是在特朗普近期访问沙特阿拉伯之后出现的，当时特朗普明确表示，他坚决支持沙特阿拉伯打击伊朗和穆兄会(Muslim Brotherhood)式伊斯兰主义团体的努力。特朗普的支持可能鼓励了其他逊尼派国家再次孤立卡塔尔。