Dennis Rodman’s trip to North Korea to help train the country’s basketball stars has not been disrupted by the political convulsions there, notably the execution of the leader’s uncle last week for treason and debauchery, the Irish online betting company sponsoring the visit said Tuesday.
赞助丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)再赴朝鲜的爱尔兰网上投注公司周二称，罗德曼帮助训练朝鲜篮球明星的这次行程未受朝鲜政局动荡的影响。朝鲜的动荡尤其明显地表现在上周该国领导人的姑父因叛国罪和生活堕落罪被处决。
Mr. Rodman, who won five N.B.A. championships with the Detroit Pistons and the Chicago Bulls, would arrive in Beijing later in the day and then travel to North Korea on Thursday with a documentary film crew, Rory Scott, a spokesman for the company, Paddy Power of Dublin, said in a telephone interview from Beijing. Mr. Scott said they would leave North Korea on Monday.
罗德曼曾是底特律活塞队和芝加哥公牛队的队员，在他当队员期间，这两个球队先后5次赢得NBA冠军。罗德曼将于周二晚些时候到达北京，随后将在一个纪录片拍摄组的陪同下于周四前往朝鲜，都柏林的网上投注公司Paddy Power的发言人罗里·斯科特(Rory Scott)在北京接受电话采访时说。斯科特说这一行人将于周一离开朝鲜。
“We spoke to a lot of experts who said it’s safe for foreigners to travel to North Korea,” he said.
“我们和很多专家谈过，他们说外国人去朝鲜没有危险，”他说。
Mr. Rodman visited North Korea this past winter and befriended its leader, Kim Jong-un, 30, a fan of American basketball. Mr. Rodman was one of the first Westerners to ever meet Mr. Kim after he took power two years ago upon the death of his father, Kim Jong-il.
罗德曼曾在去年冬天访问过朝鲜，并与其领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)交了朋友，今年30岁的金正恩是美国篮球球迷。罗德曼是金正恩在两年前在其父金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世后掌权以来首批见过金正恩的外国人之一。
The plan for Mr. Rodman to revisit had been made before the abrupt change in North Korea’s politics, culminating in the announcement Thursday that Kim Jong-un’s uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who had long been considered the No. 2 leader, had been executed for charges that included plotting a coup, womanizing, gambling and drug abuse.
罗德曼再次访问朝鲜的计划是在朝鲜政局突变之前确定的，突变的高潮表现在上周四朝鲜宣布处决了一直被认为是该国二号人物的张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)，他是金正恩的姑父，被指控犯有各种罪行，包括密谋政变、玩弄女性、赌博以及滥用毒品等。
Mr. Jang’s abrupt downfall and the unusual publicity given to it by the secretive North Korean government have created intense speculation of a political power struggle that could make the hermetic country more unstable and unpredictable.
张成泽的突然倒台、以及喜欢保密的朝鲜政府不同寻常地将其公开的做法，引起了人们对朝鲜政治斗争的激烈猜测，政治斗争可能会让这个封闭的国家变得更不稳定、更不可预测。
The United States, which has no diplomatic relations with North Korea, had already advised that no Americans should travel there, after the arrest of an 85-year-old Korean War veteran who had visited North Korea in October. The veteran, Merrill E. Newman of Palo Alto, Calif., was released and repatriated this month. Another American, Kenneth Bae, remains incarcerated in North Korea, arrested in November 2012 and convicted of hostile acts for Christian missionary work.
美国与朝鲜没有外交关系，美国已建议其公民不去朝鲜旅行，此前，一名85岁的朝鲜战争老兵在10月份去朝鲜旅行时被逮捕。这位名叫梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)的老兵来自加州帕洛阿尔托，他已在本月被释放并被遣送回国。另一位美国人肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)于2012年11月在朝鲜被逮捕，他因从事基督教传教活动而被判犯有反朝敌对罪，目前仍在监狱中。
North Korea held a huge gathering in an indoor stadium in Pyongyang on Tuesday where top party and military officials made speeches vowing to uphold Kim Jong-un as their unchallenged top leader following the purge and execution of Mr. Kim’s uncle, Jang Song-thaek.
在清洗并处决了金正恩的姑父张成泽之后，朝鲜周二在平壤的一个室内体育馆召开大型公共集会，劳动党和军队高官纷纷发表讲话，发誓捍卫他们无可争议的最高领导人金正恩。
The execution of Mr. Jang, widely believed to have been the No. 2 man in the North, raised questions about the self-image North Korea has tried to build for decades as a country single-mindedly united around Mr. Kim. Analysts and officials in the region suspected that the execution may reflect factional infighting within the opaque family dynasty in Pyongyang.
张成泽一直被认为是朝鲜的第二号人物，他的被处决使人们对朝鲜几十年来一直试图塑造的自我形象，即全国人民一心一意团结在金正恩周围的形象，产生了疑问。该地区的分析人士及官员猜测，处决张成泽可能反映出平壤这个不透明的家庭王朝内部出现了派系斗争。
North Korea staged the gathering on Tuesday to commemorate the second anniversary of the death of Mr. Kim’s father, the longtime dictator Kim Jong-il. But it also used the event to tell its people and the outside world that Mr. Kim was firmly in control, analysts said.
朝鲜周二召开的大会是为了纪念该国长期的独裁者金正日去世两周年，金正日是金正恩的父亲。但分析人士说，朝鲜也利用这次活动告诉朝鲜人民以及外部世界，金正恩牢牢地掌握着权力。
The meeting was the first major national event that Mr. Kim presided over since Mr. Jang’s execution last Thursday. He sat center stage on the raised platform flanked by top party and military leaders beneath a huge red flag emblazoned with a picture of his smiling father.
此次大会是上周四处决张成泽后，金正恩主持的首次重大的全国活动。他坐在主席台的中央，两边是党和军队的高级领导人，身后是衬托在一面巨幅红旗上的他微笑着的父亲的画像。
Throughout the nationally televised one-hour ceremony, he was grim-faced and silent while senior officials made speeches paying homage to his father and vowing fealty to him.
在长达一个小时的全国电视转播中，金正恩表情严肃，保持沉默，同时，朝鲜高级官员纷纷发言，向金正日致敬，并向金正恩表衷心。
“Our revolutionary armed forces know no one except our supreme commander, Comrade Kim Jong-un,” said Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae in his speech. “No matter what happens, we will uphold only one man, our supreme commander.”
次帅崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)在会上发言，他说，“我们的革命军队只承认一个最高指挥：金正恩同志。无论发生什么，我们都将维护一个人，就是我们的最高指挥。”
Conspicuously absent in the memorial service was Mr. Jang’s wife, Kim Kyong-hui, an aunt of Mr. Kim. But analysts believed that she has survived her husband’s purge as the North’s state media cited her name in leadership lists.
在这次纪念活动上明显缺席的是张成泽的妻子金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hui)，她是金正恩的姑姑。但是，分析人士认为，她在丈夫被清洗后还活着，因为朝鲜国家媒体给的国家领导人名单上有她的名字。