Doris Lessing, the uninhibited and outspoken novelist who won the 2007 Nobel Prize for a lifetime of writing that shattered convention, both social and artistic, died Sunday at her home in London. She was 94.
多丽丝·莱辛(Doris Lessing)是一位无拘无束、坦诚直言的小说家，毕生都在书写社会与艺术传统的破裂，并因此于2007年获得诺贝尔文学奖。周日她于伦敦家中与世长辞，享年94岁。
Her death was confirmed by her publisher, HarperCollins.
死讯由她的出版商哈珀·科林斯(HarperCollins)公司所证实。
Lessing produced dozens of novels, short stories, essays and poems, drawing on a childhood in the central African bush, the teachings of Eastern mystics and years of involvement with grass-roots Communist groups. She embarked on dizzying and, at times, stultifying literary experiments.
莱辛创作过几十部长篇小说、短篇小说、散文和诗歌，取材自她在中非灌木丛林中度过的童年，执教讲授东方神话的经历，以及同草根共产主义群体打交道的年代。她亦曾在写作中进行令人目眩、时而无甚用处的文学试验。
Indeed, “Alfred & Emily,” published in 2008, is half-fiction, half-memoir — on the one hand recounting her parents' lives as they eked out a living on a small farm in what was then Southern Rhodesia and, on the other, imagining what their lives might have been like if World War I had not occurred.
2008年出版的《阿尔弗雷德与艾米丽》（Alfred & Emily，中译名为《我的父亲母亲》——译注）半是虚构，半是回忆录，一方面回忆她父母在当时还名为南罗得西亚（Rhodesia，津巴布韦的旧称——译注）的一个小农场勉强维生的生活；另一方面又在幻想，假如第一次世界大战没有发生，他们的生活会是什么样子。
But it was her breakthrough novel, “The Golden Notebook,” a structurally inventive and loosely autobiographical tale, that remained her best-known work. The 1962 book was daring in its day for its frank exploration of the inner lives of women who, unencumbered by marriage, were free to raise children, or not, and pursue work and their sex lives as they chose. The book dealt openly with topics like menstruation and orgasm, as well as with the mechanics of emotional breakdown.
但她最著名的作品还要数她的突破性小说《金色笔记本》(The Golden Notebook)，这是一部松散的自传小说，在结构上富于创新色彩，亦是她最著名的作品。这部小说于1962年出版，因其对女性内心世界的直率探索，在当时显得极为大胆，书中的女人们不受婚姻束缚，不管是否需要抚养子女，都按自己的选择去追求事业与性生活。这本书公然描写月经和性高潮等题材，以及感情崩溃的心理机制。
Her editor at HarperCollins, Nicholas Pearson, said Sunday that “The Golden Notebook” had been a handbook for a whole generation.
她在哈珀·科林斯的编辑尼古拉斯·佩尔森(Nicholas Pearson)周日说：“《金色笔记本》堪称整整一代人的指引。”
As a writer, from colonial Africa to modern London, Lessing scrutinized relationships between men and women, social inequities and racial divisions. As a woman, she pursued her own interests and desires, professional, political and sexual. Seeking what she considered a free life, she abandoned her two small children.
从非洲殖民地到现代化的伦敦，莱辛以作家的眼光审视着男人与女人之间的关系，乃至社会不平等现象与种族隔阂。身为女人，她在职业、政治和性爱方面都追求自己的利益与欲望。为了心目中的自由生活，她抛弃了自己两个年幼的孩子。
Salon, in an interview with Lessing in 1997, said that “with her center-parted hair that's pulled back into a bun and her steely eyes, she seems like a tightly wound earth mother.”
1997年，“沙龙”(Salon)网络杂志在对莱辛的专访文章中说：“她的中分长发盘成发髻，目光坚定，犹如上紧了发条的大地母亲。”
It was this figure, 10 years later, who approached her house in sensible shoes to find journalists gathered at her door waiting to tell her that she had won the Nobel Prize for literature. “Oh, Christ!“ she said upon hearing the news. “I couldn't care less.”
十年后的她穿着朴素的便鞋回到家里，发现记者们正簇拥在门前，等着告诉她她荣获诺贝尔文学奖的消息。“我的天哪，”得知此事后她说，“我一丁点儿都不在乎。”
The Nobel announcement called her “the epicist of the female experience, who with skepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilization to scrutiny.”
诺贝尔奖颁奖词中称她是“女性体验的史诗作者，以其怀疑的态度、激情和远见，清楚地剖析了一个分裂的文化”。
Doris May Tayler was born on Oct. 22, 1919, in Kermanshah, Persia (now Iran), the first child of Alfred Cook Tayler, a bank official, and the former Emily Maude McVeagh.
多丽丝·梅·泰勒（Doris May Tayler，多丽丝·莱辛的原名）于1919年10月22日出生于波斯（今伊朗）的克尔曼沙汗，父亲是银行职员阿尔弗雷德·库克·泰勒(Alfred Cook Tayler)，母亲婚前原名艾米丽·莫德·麦克维格(Emily Maude McVeagh)，莱辛是二人的长女。
She managed to disengage Frank Wisdom, a civil servant, from his fiancée, and married him in 1939. She wrote that she was pregnant at the time but did not know.
莱辛曾使公务员弗兰克·维斯多姆(Frank Wisdom)和他的未婚妻解除婚约，1939年与他结婚。她写道，当时她怀孕了，但自己并不知情。
She sought an abortion several times, but each time some circumstance intervened, she wrote. When she finally was told the pregnancy was too far advanced, she went home relieved.
她写道，自己曾数次考虑流产，但每次都因为某些外界因素未能做成。最后一次，她被告知孕期已经太晚，无法流产，于是带着如释重负的心情回到家中。
Her first child, John, exhausted her. In 1943, her daughter, Jean, was born. By this point the author was disillusioned with being a matron, and Jean spent much of her first year in the care of others.
长子约翰令她筋疲力尽。1943年，女儿简出生。家庭主妇的身份令莱辛感到失望，简出生后第一年大都由他人照料。
Finally, she decided to leave her children, her husband and her home to pursue her ideals and life with her friends and comrades. She moved out of the family home to a rented room, took a job as a typist and kept up with news of the children through a relative.
最后，她决定离开子女、丈夫和家庭，和朋友与同志们一道追求自己的理想与人生。她搬出家中，租房而居，做一份打字员的工作，从一位亲戚那里了解孩子们的消息。
In 1943, she married Gottfried Anton Nicolai Lessing, a German Communist, because it was her “revolutionary duty” to protect him in a wartime environment hostile to Germans. Their plan was to divorce after the war. They had a son, Peter.
1943年，她嫁给德国共产党人戈特弗里德·安东·尼克莱·莱辛(Gottfried Anton Nicolai Lessing)，因为在对德国人充满敌意的战争环境中，保护他是她的“革命任务”，二人计划战争一结束就离婚。他们有个儿子，名叫彼得。
Lessing's survivors include her daughter Jean and two granddaughters.
莱辛在世的亲人包括女儿简和两个（外）孙女。
Lessing said that after having a stroke she stopped traveling. Constantly reminded of her mortality, she said she became consumed with deciding what she should write in the precious time that remained.
莱辛说，她自中风发作后就停止了旅行。她说自己经常想到死亡，并为难以决定在剩下的宝贵时间里究竟写什么而感到痛苦。
But in discussing her writing in 2008, she said: “It has stopped; I don't have any energy anymore. This is why I keep telling anyone younger than me, don't imagine you'll have it forever. Use it while you've got it, because it'll go; it's sliding away like water down a plug hole.”
但2008年她在谈及写作时说：“我已经停止写作，我不再有精力了。所以我经常告诉比我年轻的人：别以为你可以永远拥有它。当你还有精力时，好好使用它，因为它会离你而去，就像水流从下水道流走一样。”