DAKAR, Senegal — Hundreds of South African mercenaries and hired fighters of other nationalities are playing a decisive role in Nigeria's military campaign against Boko Haram, operating attack helicopters, armored personnel carriers and fighting to retake towns and villages captured by the Islamist militant group, according to senior officials in the region.
塞内加尔达喀尔——来自南非及其他国家的成百上千名雇佣军，正在尼日利亚打击博科哈拉姆（Boko Haram，旧译“博科圣地”）的军事行动中发挥关键作用，该地区的高级官员透露。雇佣军驾驶着轰炸直升机和装甲运兵车，努力在战斗中夺回被这个伊斯兰极端组织占领的城镇和村庄。
The Nigerian government has not acknowledged the presence of the mercenaries, but a senior government official in northern Nigeria said the South Africans — camped out in a remote portion of the airport in Maiduguri, the city at the heart of Boko Haram's uprising — conduct most of their operations at night because “they really don't want to let people know what is going on.”
尼日利亚政府没有承认这些雇佣军的存在，但尼日利亚北部的一名高级政府官员说，那些南非人的行动，多数是在夜间开展的，因为“他们真的不想让人们知道他们在干什么”。他们驻扎在迈杜古里机场的一个偏僻角落，迈杜古里位于博科哈拉姆叛乱的中心。
He said the mercenaries' role was crucial, part of a new offensive against Boko Haram after a nearly six-year insurrection. The Nigerian military, under pressure because of a presidential election to be held this month, has recently claimed a string of successes against Boko Haram, boasting about the recapture of a number of towns.
他说，雇佣军起到了关键的作用，在近六年的叛乱之后，他们是打击博科哈拉姆的最新攻势中的一部分。由于本月即将举行总统选举，尼日利亚军方面临着压力，因而在打击博科哈拉姆的行动中取得了一系列胜利。军方炫耀称夺回了多座城镇。
The mercenaries “are in the vanguard in the liberation of some of the communities,” said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals.
雇佣军“作为先头部队帮助夺回了一些社区”，这名官员说。由于担心报复，他要求匿名。
A senior Western diplomat confirmed that the South Africans were playing “a major operational role,” particularly at night. Equipped with night vision goggles, the mercenaries “are whacking them in the evening hours. The next morning the Nigerian Army rolls in and claims success,” the diplomat said.
一名西方高级外交官证实，南非人扮演了“主要的战斗角色”，在夜里尤其如此。装配有夜视镜的雇佣军“在晚间重创敌人。第二天早上，尼日利亚陆军再大举进城，宣布取得胜利，”这名外交官称。
The mercenaries “are doing the heavy lifting,” said the diplomat, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. “They own the night.”
这些雇佣军“承担着一些繁重的任务”，这名外交官说。“他们在夜里所向披靡。”这名外交官没有公开讨论此事的权限。
Another diplomat, also unauthorized to speak on the matter, said he believed the mercenary force was composed of fighters from several countries but mainly South Africa.
另一名外交官称，他认为雇佣军中的武装分子来自多个国家，但主要来自南非。此人同样无权公开谈论该问题。
The Nigerians' assertions of making headway follow months in which portions of the country's territory were lost to Boko Haram, an Islamist militant group that has stormed into villages, killing civilians at random, abducting women and girls at will, and forcing tens of thousands of residents to flee across the country's northeast.
在尼日利亚宣布取得胜利之前的几个月里，博科哈拉姆夺取了该国的部分领土。这个伊斯兰极端组织冲进了多个村庄，肆无忌惮地杀害平民，恣意绑架妇女和女童，迫使该国东北部成千上万的居民逃离家园。
The war against Boko Haram has become a regional one, with Chad, Niger, Cameroon and Benin agreeing to contribute troops to an 8,700-member force to fight the militants. Attacks by Boko Haram have increasingly spilled across borders in the region, prompting Chad to strike at the group inside Nigerian territory.
打击博科哈拉姆的行动已经变成了一场地区性战争，乍得、尼日尔、喀麦隆和贝宁均同意派兵，组成一支8700人规模的部队，与极端分子作战。博科哈拉姆在该地区发起的攻击，也越来越多地跨越了国界，促使乍得在尼日利亚境内打击该组织。
According to the senior Nigerian official, the South Africans mercenaries have played a significant role in the recent change of momentum in the military effort against Boko Haram.
据前述尼日利亚高官透露，在最近打击博科哈拉姆的军事行动中，战况发生了变化，南非雇佣军在其中发挥了重要作用。
“They are on the ground; I have seen them,” he said. “They came in with much more sophisticated equipment than the military. Thanks to their involvement the tide is turning. I believe because of them we will witness a seismic shift.”
“他们就在战场上，我看到过他们，”他说。“他们携带的装备比政府军精良得多。多亏了他们的参与，形势正在扭转。我相信因为有了他们，我们会目睹一场剧变。”
South African news organizations have carried a number of reports since January about former members of its armed forces traveling to Nigeria. Some other news reports have said that mercenaries from former Soviet republics have also been enlisted. One South African contractor said in an email to The New York Times that among the foreign fighters were Ukrainian helicopter pilots.
自1月以来，南非新闻机构刊登了大量有关前武装部队成员前往尼日利亚的报道。其他一些新闻报道称，来自前苏联加盟共和国的雇佣军也应征加入了。一名南非承包商在写给《纽约时报》的一封电子邮件中表示，外国作战人员中有乌克兰直升机飞行员。
South Africa's Foreign Affairs and Defense Ministries did not respond to requests for comment, but in an implicit acknowledgment of the mercenaries' presence in Nigeria, the South African defense minister has said that mercenaries fighting abroad will be arrested on their return to South Africa.
南非外交部和国防部未答复置评请求，但南非国防部长表示，在海外作战的雇佣军一回到南非便会被捕，含蓄地承认了尼日利亚存在南非雇佣军。
In Washington, Nigeria's chief of defense intelligence, Rear Adm. Gabriel E. Okoi, said in an interview Wednesday that South African contractors had been hired in recent months to help train Nigerian troops. But he said he was unaware of any current or former members of South Africa's military or security services hired to engage in active fighting against Boko Haram.
尼日利亚负责国防情报事务的海军少将加布里尔·E·奥科伊(Gabriel E. Okoi)周三在华盛顿接受采访时称，最近几个月，尼日利亚雇佣了南非承包商协助训练尼日利亚部队。但他表示自己不知道有南非军方或安全部队的现役成员或前成员，受雇参与当前打击博科哈拉姆的战斗。
Calls and messages to other Nigerian defense officials were not answered this week.
本周打给尼日利亚其他国防官员的电话，以及发给他们的讯息均未收到答复。