UNITED NATIONS — Seven months after a groundbreaking report documenting how North Korea tortured and starved its citizens, a broad coalition of countries is pushing for the first time to refer Pyongyang to the International Criminal Court for prosecution of crimes against humanity.
联合国——七个月前发布的一份突破性的报告，记录了朝鲜如何折磨并饿死本国公民的情节。报告发布以来，很多国家组成广泛联盟，首次要求将朝鲜人权议题提交给国际刑事法院（International Criminal Court，简称ICC），以反人类罪起诉朝鲜。
Japan and the European Union circulated a draft resolution last week among United Nations member states that encourages the Security Council to refer North Korea to the tribunal in The Hague; 43 countries have so far signed on in support. The move builds on Secretary of State John Kerry’s bid last month to raise the profile of rights violations in North Korea by hosting an unusual session devoted to the issue on the sidelines of the General Assembly’s annual conclave.
日本和欧洲联盟(Europe Union)上周向联合国成员国散发了一份决议草案，呼吁联合国安理会(Security Council)在这所位于海牙的法院起诉朝鲜。到目前为止，已有43个国家签名支持。在此之前，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上个月推动在联合国大会(General Assembly)年度会议期间，就朝鲜侵犯人权的问题举行特别会议，提高朝鲜人权问题的关注度。
On Wednesday, the American ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, furthered that effort by presenting an award to the chief author of the landmark report, Michael D. Kirby, a retired Australian judge.
周三，美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)进一步推动该举措，为这份具有重大意义的报告的主要作者迈克尔·D·柯比(Michael D. Kirby)颁发了一个奖项。柯比是一位澳大利亚退休法官。
The efforts are a breakthrough for human rights advocates who have long urged world powers to scrutinize reported rights abuses in North Korea, and not just focus on its nuclear arms. The momentum has built since the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva called last March for accountability after reviewing Mr. Kirby’s harrowing report, compiled after interviews with 240 victims and witnesses who had escaped the country.
人权倡导人士长期以来一直呼吁世界大国对得到披露的朝鲜践踏人权的案例加以追究，不要只关注核武器。对这些倡导人士来说，上述举措是一个突破性的进展。日内瓦联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)今年3月审议了柯比的报告，并要求对朝鲜问责，之后这种呼声迅猛加强。柯比在采访了240名逃离朝鲜的受害者及目击者后撰写了这份令人痛心的报告。
The report did not allege genocide, but said there had been crimes of “extermination” committed, as well as murder, enslavement, torture and rape. The testimony included allegations that pregnant women in the gulags were sometimes so badly beaten that they miscarried and that one woman had been forced to drown her baby.
该报告没有指控朝鲜政府犯有种族灭绝罪，但称朝鲜存在“灭绝”、谋杀、奴役、酷刑及强奸的罪行。证词中提到的情节包括，劳改营中的孕妇有时会因为遭到毒打而流产，一名女性在逼迫之下淹死了自己的孩子。
If the diplomatic buildup reaches the Security Council in the coming months, it will most certainly ratchet up the pressure on China, which is Pyongyang’s chief ally, at a time when Beijing is seeking to bolster its international standing. It is clear to many diplomats here that China, which as one of five permanent members of the council holds veto power, is not likely to readily go along with a plan to refer North Korea to the court. And on Thursday, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said as much, stating that rights disputes should be handled through “dialogue and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect.”
如果此番外交努力在未来几个月进入安理会议程，几乎肯定会加大平壤的主要盟友中国所面临的压力，此时中国正在试图提升国际地位。很多外交官非常清楚，中国不会赞同将朝鲜人权问题提交给法院的计划，中国是安理会五个常任理事国之一，拥有否决权。周四，中国外交部的一名女发言人也做出了类似表态，称应该“在平等和相互尊重基础上，通过建设性对话与合作处理人权领域的分歧”。
But Mr. Kirby said “we continue to hope that China, as a great power, will act as a great power.”
但柯比表示，“我们仍然希望，中国作为一个大国，能够像大国一样行事。”
The efforts at the United Nations echo ones this year to refer Syria to the criminal court. Its ally, Russia, vetoed the measure, but was diplomatically isolated, and Western envoys later speculated that might have helped persuade Russia to go along with a measure to allow for the delivery of humanitarian aid into opposition-held areas of Syria.
联合国的上述举措，与今年将叙利亚问题提交国际刑事法院的努力相似。叙利亚的盟友俄罗斯否决了相关提案，但俄罗斯遭到外交孤立。西方国家的外交官后来推测，这可能在一定程度上促使俄罗斯，对于向叙利亚反对派控制的区域提供人道主义援助的一项提案给予了支持。
In any case, North Korea, one of the world’s most isolated and opaque countries, seems to be taking the threat of at least some action seriously. Its envoys have struck back in recent weeks with a mix of unusual diplomatic concessions, hard-line rhetoric and propaganda videos, handed out to reporters like Halloween candy in the corridors of the United Nations. Earlier this month, North Korea even circulated a draft measure of its own, calling on the United Nations to conduct an “unbiased reassessment” of its human rights record; it regards Mr. Kirby’s commission of inquiry as a Western plot.
无论如何，作为世界上最孤立、最不透明的国家，朝鲜似乎至少对一些行动构成的威胁，给予了认真对待。朝鲜外交官最近几周予以回击，既一反常态地做出外交让步，又发表措辞强硬的言论，还像分发万圣节糖果一样，在联合国办公大楼的走廊向记者发放宣传视频。本月早些时候，朝鲜甚至还散发了一份自己的草案，呼吁联合国对朝鲜的人权纪录进行“公正的评估”；称柯比的调查委员会是西方的阴谋。
Mr. Kirby, 75, with thinning hair and a slow gait, has emerged as a somewhat improbable standard-bearer in the movement to hold North Korea accountable for its reported rights violations.
75岁的柯比头发日渐稀疏、步态缓慢，在呼吁朝鲜对得到披露的侵犯人权的行为负责的运动中，他成为旗手有些出人意料。
Speaking last week to the human rights committee of the General Assembly, Mr. Kirby urged diplomats to push the Security Council to refer North Korea to the international court — only to get into a spirited row with the diplomat representing Pyongyang.
上周，柯比在联大人权委员会讲话，敦促外交官推动安理会将朝鲜交由国际法院处理，结果与代表朝鲜政府的外交官发生了激烈的争吵。
Kim Song, a counselor from the North Korean mission, described the commission as “a political conspiracy by the United States and hostile forces.” Mr. Kirby sharply urged the diplomat to listen to the testimonies himself. Unbowed, the North Korean said the witnesses who testified were criminals.
朝鲜代表团参赞金松（Kim Song，音译）称，该委员会是“美国和敌对势力的政治阴谋”。柯比极力要求这名外交官亲自听听相关证词。但是，朝方代表仍然理直气壮地表示，发表证言的证人都是罪犯。
Mr. Kirby’s voice shook a little in answering. “The truth in this report is very concerning to the world community,” Mr. Kirby shot back, “and your country has to face up to it.”
柯比在回答时嗓音略略发抖。“这篇报告所讲述的事实令国际社会十分关切，”柯比反驳道，“贵国必须面对。”
When the meeting finished, Mr. Kim, wearing the portrait of his supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, on his lapel, began handing out CDs entitled “Lie and Truth.” He said they told the true story of a prominent defector.
会议结束时，金松开始分发题为《谎言与真相》(Lie and Truth)的光盘。他的衣领上戴着朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的肖像。他说，光盘中讲述了一个著名脱北者的真实故事。
As part of its campaign against new scrutiny, North Korea has also released its own human rights report, claiming that it enjoys robust human rights including freedom of speech and protection from torture. In a diplomatic concession, it has agreed to subject itself to a periodic review of its human rights performance by the United Nations.
为了抵御新一轮的审视，朝鲜采取了一系列努力，其中包括发布自己的人权报告。报告称，朝鲜的人权状况非常好，民众享有言论自由和免受酷刑的权利。朝鲜还做出了外交让步，同意让联合国对其人权状况进行定期审核。
On Monday, the North’s ambassador to the United Nations, Jang Il Hun, made a rare appearance at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. He dismissed the proposed United Nations resolution as a “plot” by the United States to overthrow the government and warned vaguely of consequences for any talks on its nuclear program.
周一，朝鲜驻联合国代表使张日勋(Jang Il Hun)极其罕见地现身纽约的对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)。他表示，在联合国提出的决议草案，是美国意图推翻朝鲜政府的一个“阴谋”，并含蓄地警告称，这可能会对未来涉及朝鲜核计划的对话，造成一些后果。
“If such attempt to sabotage or overthrow our system is the policy of the United States administration, then we cannot but re-examine our overall policy towards the United States,” Mr. Jang told the audience.
张日勋对在座者说，“如果这种破坏或推翻我们体制的尝试是美国政府的政策，那么我们就只能重新考虑针对美国的整体政策了。”
The next day, his government released an American detainee, Jeffrey Fowle, one in a series of conciliatory gestures that analysts have read as an attempt to draw the United States into dialogue even as it continues to build its nuclear arsenal.
次日，朝鲜政府释放了被朝鲜扣押的美国人杰弗里·福尔(Jeffrey Fowle)。这是一系列和解姿态中的一个。分析人士认为，这样做是为了让美国与其举行对话，尽管它仍在继续建设核武库。
Unlike previous resolutions to punish North Korea, the one being circulated includes the language on the International Criminal Court and is likely to come up for a vote in the human rights committee in November. It would need a majority of votes in the 193-member General Assembly after that.
与此前惩罚朝鲜的决议不同，目前散发的这份决议草案中，包括关于ICC的措辞，而且它很可能会于11月在人权委员会付诸表决。之后，它还需要在有193个成员国的联合国大会赢得过半数支持。