WASHINGTON — At least six of President Donald Trump’s closest advisers occasionally used private email addresses to discuss White House matters, current and former officials said Monday.
华盛顿——现任和前任官员周一表示，特朗普总统身边最亲近的顾问中，至少有六个人偶尔会使用私人邮箱来讨论白宫事务。
The disclosures came a day after news surfaced that Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and adviser, used a private email account to send or receive about 100 work-related emails during the administration’s first seven months. But Kushner was not alone.
在他们透露此事的一天之前，有消息说，总统的女婿及顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)在白宫工作的七个月里使用私人帐户发送接收大约100封与工作有关的电邮。但是这么做的并不只他一个人。
Stephen K. Bannon, the former chief White House strategist, and Reince Priebus, the former chief of staff, also occasionally used private email addresses. Other advisers, including Gary D. Cohn and Stephen Miller, sent or received at least a few emails on personal accounts, officials said.
这些官员说，前白宫首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)和前幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)也偶尔使用私人邮箱。其他顾问，包括加里·D·科恩(Gary D. Cohn)和斯蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)在内，也至少在私人邮箱里收发过几封电邮。
Ivanka Trump, the president’s elder daughter, who is married to Kushner, used a private account when she acted as an unpaid adviser in the first months of the administration, Newsweek reported Monday. Administration officials acknowledged that she also occasionally did so when she formally became a White House adviser. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter with reporters.
《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)周一报道，总统长女、库什纳之妻伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)在头几个月里担任无偿顾问时，曾使用了一个私人邮箱。行政官员承认，她正式成为白宫顾问之后也偶尔这样做。这些官员不愿具名，因为他们没有被授权与记者讨论这个问题。
Officials are supposed to use government emails for their official duties so their conversations are available to the public and those conducting oversight. But it is not illegal for White House officials to use private email accounts as long as they forward work-related messages to their work accounts so they can be preserved.
官员们理应使用政府电邮办公，以便公众和监督者查看。但是白宫官员只要把涉及工作的信息转发到工作邮箱，以便这些邮件可以保存下来，那么他们使用私人账户就不属于违规。
During the 2016 presidential race, Trump repeatedly harped on Hillary Clinton’s use of a private account as secretary of state, making it a centerpiece of his campaign and using it to paint her as untrustworthy.
在2016年的总统大选中，特朗普多次抨击希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在担任国务卿期间使用私人账户办公，这是他在竞选活动中使用的一个主要把柄，用来渲染希拉里是靠不住的。
“We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office,” Trump said last year. His campaign rallies often boiled over with chants of “Lock her up!”
 “我们不能让她把她的犯罪计划带到椭圆形办公室。”特朗普去年曾表示。他的竞选集会上经常沸腾着“把她关起来”的喊声。
The FBI closed its investigation into Clinton’s handling of classified information and recommended no charges. But even after becoming president, Trump has prodded the Justice Department to reinvestigate.
对于克林顿处理机密信息的事情，联邦调查局已经结案，并建议不予起诉。但特朗普即使在担任总统之后，也曾敦促司法部重新调查此案。
While the private email accounts spurred accusations of hypocrisy from Democrats, there are differences. Clinton stored classified information on a private server, and she exclusively used a private account for her government work, sending or receiving tens of thousands of emails. The content and frequency of the Trump advisers’ emails remain unknown, but Trump administration officials described the use of personal accounts as sporadic. The emails have not been made public.
虽然白宫顾问使用私人电邮账户一事曝光后，民主党人指责他们很虚伪，但他们的情况有所不同。克林顿在私人服务器上存储了机密信息，她在开展政府工作时只使用私人账户，发送接收了数万封邮件。而特朗普的顾问们使用私人邮箱办公的内容和频率虽然仍然不太清楚，但特朗普行政官员说，他们仅仅是偶尔使用个人帐户。这些电邮尚未公开发布。
“All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Monday in response to questions about the emails. “They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts.”
“所有白宫人员都收到过指示，要使用官方电邮处理所有和政府相关的工作。”白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)周一表示：“他们还收到了进一步的指示，如果他们在个人邮箱里收到与工作有关的邮件，则应将其转发到官方电邮帐户上。”
The acknowledgment of private email use came as the White House is responding to a wide-ranging Justice Department request for documents and emails as part of the special counsel investigation into Russian election meddling. The use of private emails has the potential to complicate that effort, but White House officials said they were confident in the process.
白宫承认这些顾问使用私人邮箱之际，正在回应司法部提出的一个大范围提供文件和电邮的要求，那是对俄罗斯干预总统竞选的特别调查的一部分。私人邮箱的使用有可能会让事情变得更复杂，不过白宫官员表示对此充满了信心。
“I am dealing with honorable professionals and getting what I need,” said Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer leading the response to the investigation. “I am doing all I can to ensure the special counsel receives the materials they request.”
“我正在和可敬的专业人员打交道，拿到我需要的东西。”负责回应调查事务的白宫律师泰·柯布(Ty Cobb)说：“我正在尽全力确保特别检察官收到他们想要的资料。”
It is not clear why even sporadic use continued after a campaign in which email habits became a source of controversy. A former administration official noted, though, that in many cases, people received emails to their personal accounts. In some instances, officials used their private accounts to talk with reporters.
现在还不清楚为什么电邮习惯在总统大选中成为一个争议之源后，还有人会偶尔使用私人电邮。一位前政府官员指出，在很多时候，是因为他们在个人邮箱里收到了电邮。在某些情况下，官员会使用私人账号与记者交流。
Most of Trump’s aides used popular commercial email services like Gmail. Kushner created a domain, IJKFamily.com, in December to host his family’s personal email. That domain was hosted by GoDaddy on a server in Arizona, records show.
特朗普的大部分助理使用的都是人气商业电邮服务，比如Gmail。库什纳在去年12月份创建了一个域名IJKFamily.com，用来托管他家人的个人电邮。记录显示，这个域由GoDaddy托管在亚利桑那州的一台服务器上。
Priebus and Bannon did not respond to messages seeking comment. A person close to Bannon insisted he almost never used his private email for work purposes. A White House spokesman did not immediately respond to a question for comment about the current officials.
普利巴斯和班农没有回应置评请求。一个和班农关系很近的人坚称，他几乎从来没有在工作中使用过私人电邮。白宫发言人并没有立即回应涉及现任官员的置评请求。
The special counsel, Robert Mueller, is leading the investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election and whether anyone around Trump was involved. Mueller’s team has the power to subpoena a company to turn over customer emails.
特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)正领导着对俄罗斯干预大选，以及特朗普身边是否有人卷入其中的调查。穆勒的团队有权发传票命令公司交出客户邮件。
White House officials hope it does not come to that. They have been hurrying to provide Mueller with the documents he has asked for. Cobb has described it as “full cooperation mode.” He has reminded White House aides to search their private accounts for records to give to Mueller.
白宫官员希望不要发展到这种局面。他们一直在抓紧时间向穆勒提供他要求的文件。柯布称其是“完全配合模式”。他提醒白宫的助手在自己的私人账户里寻找须交给穆勒的记录。
The White House views such cooperation as its best chance to escape the glare of a special counsel investigation that also touches on Trump’s actions as president.
白宫认为，特别检察官的调查还涉及特朗普担任总统后的多项行动，而这种配合是避免在调查中受到关注的最好机会。
The private email accounts immediately triggered questions in Congress. Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., who was among those who most vociferously criticized Clinton’s email use, sent a letter to the White House and federal agencies asking about the Trump administration’s personal email use.
这些私人电子邮件账户立即在国会引发了质疑。来自南卡罗来纳州的共和党众议员特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)曾是批评克林顿使用私人电子邮件账号最严厉的人之一。他给白宫和多个联邦机构寄出了一封信，询问特朗普政府使用私人电子邮箱一事。