KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — With no trace of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 more than three weeks after it disappeared, the international search effort intensified early Monday, with 10 planes and 10 ships  scouring the latest search area about 1,100 miles west of Perth, Australia, officials said.
马来西亚吉隆坡——官员们表示，马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失联超过三周仍无踪迹，国际搜索行动于周一早间进一步加强，共有10架飞机和10艘船只在最新的搜索区域进行搜索，该区域东距珀斯约1100英里（约合1771公里）。
Other ships were en route to the zone and were expected to arrive in the next several days, including an Australian naval vessel, the Ocean Shield, outfitted with special equipment to detect the pings of the plane’s data recorders, or black boxes, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which is coordinating the search.
据协调搜索行动的澳大利亚海事安全局(Australia Maritime Safety Authority)透露，其他一些船只正在赶往该区域，将在未来几天到达，其中包括澳大利亚海军舰艇“海洋盾”(Ocean Shield)，该舰艇配有特殊装备，可以探测飞机数据记录器黑匣子的ping信号。
As in the two previous days of searching, aircraft spotted more debris floating in the zone, the authority said. 
澳大利亚海事局表示，在此前两天的搜索行动之中，飞机在该海域发现了更多的漂浮碎片。
On Saturday, crews on two of the ships pulled several objects from the rough waters, raising hopes that perhaps the first physical evidence of the missing Boeing 777-200 had been found. But the debris turned out to be “fishing equipment and other flotsam,” the authority said in a statement late Sunday.
周六，两艘船只的船员从波涛汹涌的海面打捞起几个物体，人们由此希望，或许已经找到了失联波音777-200飞机的第一个实物证据。不过，澳大利亚海事局周日晚间发表声明称，事实证明，这些碎片只是一些“渔具和其他漂浮物”。
In Malaysia, more than two dozen relatives of Chinese passengers on Flight 370 arrived from China on Sunday to press Malaysian officials for more answers about the investigation. The Malaysian government has endured withering criticism from the relatives and friends of Chinese passengers, both in Malaysia and in China, who have accused officials of withholding information about the disappearance of the plane and not doing enough to find it.
周日，20多名370航班中国乘客家属从中国来到马来西亚，要求马来西亚官员回答更多有关调查行动的问题。身在中国和马来西亚的中国乘客亲友都已对马来西亚政府提出了猛烈批评，指责马方官员隐瞒飞机失联的相关信息，没有尽力寻找飞机。
The group protested at a hotel near Kuala Lumpur and demanded an apology from the Malaysian government for declaring last week that the plane had crashed into the Indian Ocean, saying there was insufficient evidence to support that conclusion.
家属们在吉隆坡附近的一家酒店举行抗议，并要求马来西亚政府为上周宣布飞机坠入印度洋的声明道歉，称没有足够的证据支持这一结论。
Government officials said later that they planned to hold a briefing for the family members that would include “high-level representatives of the Malaysian government.”
政府官员随后表示，他们计划为家属们举行一次情况通报会，与会者将包括“马来西亚政府的高层代表”。
The Ocean Shield, an offshore support vessel that will be carrying the ping-detecting device, was supposed leave Perth on Sunday, but its departure was rescheduled for Monday, officials said. The ship will also be carrying an unmanned underwater vehicle.
官员们表示，携带ping信号探测装置的“海洋盾”近海补给船原定周日从珀斯出发，后来才改为周一。这艘舰艇还将携带一部无人潜水器。
But the ping detector’s utility, in the absence of more specific information about the location of the wreckage, is questionable. The device will be towed behind the ship at no more than about five knots, or about six miles per hour, and needs to be within about a mile of the black boxes to pick up the signal reliably, making for a slow and painstaking process. The new search area, which was established on Friday, is roughly the size of Poland.
但是，在获得关于残骸位置的更确切信息之前，ping探测器的作用还值得怀疑。轮船将拖着这台仪器以不超过5节（约合6英里每小时，或9.7公里每小时）的速度前行，过程漫长而艰难，因为仪器必须处在距黑匣子1英里以内的地方才能侦测到信号。上周五，有关方面设定了新的搜索区，其面积大致相当于波兰。
Searchers, however, say there is no time to waste: The device will be ineffective once the batteries powering the black boxes die, which is expected to happen next week.
但是，搜索人员说时间已经所剩无多：一旦驱动黑匣子的电池耗尽，黑匣子就会失去作用，而电池预计将在下周耗尽。
The recovery of debris from Flight 370 might also help pinpoint the location of the wreckage, though experts are doubtful.
如果能找到370航班的残片，也许可以帮助人们确定残骸的具体方位。不过，专家们对此持怀疑态度。
When debris is found quickly enough after a crash into the sea, investigators can trace its drift back to the impact site and conduct an underwater search for the black boxes. But in the case of Flight 370, any debris, if found, might well have drifted hundreds of miles since the plane’s disappearance and be of limited use in finding the crash site.
如果在飞机坠海不久后找到残片，调查人员就能根据它的漂移轨迹找到坠海地点，进而对黑匣子展开水下搜寻。但就370航班的情况而言，残片从飞机失踪后很可能已经漂移了数百英里，即便找到残片，对找到坠海地点也没有太大帮助。
The search area was shifted after new analysis of radar data from the morning of March 8 — when Flight 370 apparently veered off its intended route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing — determined that the plane was traveling faster than previously thought and therefore would have burned fuel more quickly and possibly fallen into the Indian Ocean farther north than previously believed.
有关方面对3月8日早上——从吉隆坡飞往北京的370航班显然是在那时偏离预定路线的——的雷达数据进行了新的分析，由此确定飞机飞得比人们先前设想的更快，所以它燃烧油料的速度也更快，很可能坠落在印度洋上更靠北的区域，与人们先前的想法不同。
The new zone is about 700 miles north of the previous search area.
新的搜索区域位于原搜索区域以北约700英里的地方。