LONDON — Security experts are warning that the global cyberattack that began on Friday is likely to be magnified in the new workweek as users return to their offices and turn on their computers.
伦敦——安全专家警告说，随着用户纷纷开始返回办公室，打开自己的计算机，上周五开始的全球网络攻击可能会在新的工作周里进一步扩大。
Many workers, particularly in Asia, had already logged off on Friday when the malicious software, stolen from the United States government, began proliferating across computer systems around the world. So the true impact of the attack may emerge on Monday as employees return and log in.
上周五，从美国政府偷来的恶意软件开始在世界各地的计算机系统中蔓延的时候，许多工作人员、尤其是亚洲的工作人员已经不在计算机上。因此，这次攻击的真正影响也许在员工周一上班、登录计算机时才会表现出来。
Moreover, copycat variants of the malicious software behind the attacks are likely to spread, since the malware uses mostly open-source code and is easily replicable.
此外，制造攻击的恶意软件的模仿变异版本可能会扩散，这个恶意软件主要使用开源代码，因此很容易复制。
Rob Wainwright, the executive director of Europol, the European Union’s police agency, said on Sunday that the attacks had hit 200,000 computers in more than 150 countries.
欧盟警察机构欧洲刑警组织(Europol)执行主任罗布·温赖特(Rob Wainwright)周日表示，这次攻击已经危害到150多个国家的20万台计算机。
“At the moment, we are in the face of an escalating threat,” he told the British network ITV on Sunday. “The numbers are going up. I am worried about how the numbers will continue to grow when people go to work and turn their machines on Monday morning.”
“此时此刻，我们正面临着一个逐步扩大的威胁，”他周日对英国独立电视台(ITV)说。“受攻击机器的数字正在上升。我对周一早上人们上班、打开他们的计算机后，这个数字将怎样继续增长很担心。”
Among the organizations hit were FedEx in the United States, the Spanish telecom giant Telefónica, the French automaker Renault, universities in China, Germany’s federal railway system and Russia’s powerful Interior Ministry. The most disruptive attacks infected Britain’s public health system, where surgeries had to be rescheduled and some patients were turned away from emergency rooms.
攻击已经危害到许多机构，其中包括美国的联邦快递、西班牙的电信巨头Telefónica、法国的汽车制造商雷诺、中国的一些大学、德国的联邦铁路系统，以及俄罗斯有影响力的内政部。破坏性最大的攻击感染了英国的国民健康服务系统(National Health Service，简称NHS)，一些手术不得不重新排时间，还有些病人被急诊室拒之门外。
“We haven’t seen spikes of new attacks yet, but that’s a strong likelihood,” said Matthieu Suiche, founder of Comae Technologies, a cybersecurity company based in the United Arab Emirates. “We could see more attacks if people start to copycat this attack,” he added.
位于阿拉伯联合酋长国的网络安全公司Comae Technologies的创始人Matthieu Suiche说，“我们尚未看到新攻击的急剧上升，但有很大的这种可能性。”他补充说，“如果人们开始模仿这种攻击的话，我们会看到更多的攻击。”
A 22-year-old British researcher who uses the Twitter name MalwareTech has been credited with inadvertently helping to stanch the spread of the assault by identifying the web domain for the hackers’ “kill switch” — a way of disabling the malware.
多亏一名在Twitter上使用MalwareTech网名的22岁的英国研究者识别出了黑客的“自毁开关”(kill switch、也就是让恶意软件失效）网站域名，从而无意中帮助阻止了攻击的扩大。
On Sunday, MalwareTech was one of many security experts warning that a less-vulnerable version of the malware is likely to be released. On Twitter, he urged users to immediately install a security patch for older versions of Microsoft’s Windows, including Windows XP. (The attack did not target Windows 10.)
包括MalwareTech在内的许多安全专家周日警告说，这个恶意软件的一个更难对付的版本很可能会被释放出来。MalwareTech在Twitter上呼吁用户马上为老版本的微软Windows操作系统（包括Windows XP）安装安全补丁。（这次攻击没有针对Windows 10系统。）
Robert Pritchard, a former cybersecurity expert at Britain’s defense ministry, said that security specialists may not be able to keep pace with the hackers.
英国国防部前网络安全专家罗伯特·普里查德(Robert Pritchard)说，安全专家可能无法与黑客保持同步。
“This vulnerability still exits, other people are bound to exploit it,” he said. “The current variant will make its way into antivirus software. But what about any new variants that will come in the future?”
“这个漏洞依然存在，其他人一定会利用它，”他说。“针对目前恶意软件版本的防御将进入防病毒软件。但是，将来出现新的变异版本怎么办？”
All it would take is for a new group of hackers to change the original malware code slightly to remove the “kill switch” and send it off into the world, using the same email-based methods to infiltrate computer systems that the original attackers used, experts said. The Microsoft patch will help, but it will take time to install across large organizations.
专家们说，只需要一群新黑客出来，稍微修改一下原版恶意软件的代码，把其中的“自毁开关”删除，并将新版本释放到出来，用与最初攻击者使用的基于电子邮件的相同方法入侵计算机系统。微软的补丁会有所帮助，但是，给大型机构的所有机器打补丁需要时间。
Governments around the world were bracing themselves for the start of the workweek.
世界各地的政府正在为新工作周的开始做准备。
“This is crucial for businesses when reopening on Monday: Please beware and anticipate, and take preventive steps against the WannaCry malware attack,” Indonesia’s communication and information minister, Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses only one name, said at a news conference.
“这对企业周一重新开张至关重要：请采取提防和先行措施，采取步骤预防‘想哭’(WannaCry)恶意软件的攻击，”印度尼西亚信息与通讯部长鲁迪安塔拉(Rudiantara)说，和许多印尼人一样，这位部长只用单名。
He advised those hit by the malware against paying the $300 to $600 in Bitcoin demanded as ransom to regain access to encrypted data, since there was no assurance that the extortionists would decrypt the files as promised.
他劝告受到恶意软件攻击的人，不要为了把被加密的数据换回来，用比特币支付被勒索的300到600美元的赎金，因为无法保证敲诈勒索者会按他们承诺的去做，对文件进行解密。
At least one Indonesian hospital, Dharmais Hospital in Jakarta, was affected. Abdul Kadir, the hospital director, said in an interview that the computer system was struck early on Saturday, but that it had not affected patient care.
至少有一家印尼医院受到了影响：雅加达的达摩医院(Dharmais Hospital)。院长阿卜杜勒·卡迪尔(Abdul Kadir)在接受采访时表示，医院的计算机系统在周六早些时候受到攻击，但没有影响病人的护理。
In China, several universities reported malware problems, including Shandong University in the northeast, which urged faculty and students to update their software as quickly as possible.
中国有几所大学也报告了恶意软件的问题，其中包括山东大学，该校敦促教师和学生尽快更新他们的软件。
“There is often no other way to decrypt the file, except to pay a high ransom to decrypt and recover the documents, learning materials and personal data,” the notice warned on Saturday.
山大周六发的通知警告说，“往往没有其他办法解密文件，只有支付高额赎金才能解密恢复文件，对学习资料和个人数据造成严重损失。”
Microsoft has complained for years that the large majority of computers running its software were using pirated versions. The spread of hacking attacks has made legal versions of software more popular, as they typically provide automatic updates of security upgrades.
微软多年来一直抱怨，大多数运行其软件的计算机使用的都是盗版。黑客攻击的蔓延使合法的正版软件更受欢迎，因为正版软件通常自动提供安全更新的升级。
In Britain, the fallout from the attack continued on Sunday. Two opposition parties, the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats, asserted that the governing Conservative Party had not done enough to prevent the attack. With a general election scheduled for June 8, officials have been racing to get ahead of the problem.
周日，黑客攻击的后果在英国继续发酵。工党和自由民主党这两个反对党都断言，执政的保守党对防止这次攻击没有采取足够的措施。由于6月8日的大选在即，政府官员正在加快步伐，赶在问题出现前将其解决。
Britain’s defense minister, Michael Fallon, told the BBC on Sunday that the government was spending about 50 million pounds ($64 million) to improve cybersecurity at the National Health Service, where many computers still run the outdated Windows XP software, which Microsoft had stopped supporting.
英国国防部长迈克尔·法伦(Michael Fallon)周日对英国广播公司说，政府正在花约5000万英镑（约合4.4亿元人民币）来改进国民健康服务系统的网络安全，该系统中有许多机器仍在运行过时的Windows XP软件，微软早已停止了对这个老操作系统的支持。
At the National Health Service, employees said they had been cautioned about their computer use.
国民健康服务部门的员工表示，他们已经得到了关于计算机使用的警告。
“We are all being extra careful,” said Greg Elston, a paramedic at St. Mary’s Hospital in central London. “We’ve been instructed not to open email attachments on our phones.”
“我们都格外小心，”伦敦市中心圣玛丽医院的医务辅助人员格雷格·埃尔斯顿(Greg Elston)说。“我们被指示不要在手机上打开电子邮件的附件。”
Nancy Harper, who accompanied her mother to the hospital on Saturday for an X-ray, said: “It’s concerning that the N.H.S. was dependent on these outdated systems. If your average person has access to cheap cloud storage these days, then hospitals should be using similar backup methods. I hope this was a wake-up call.”
周六陪母亲到该医院拍X光片的南希·哈珀(Nancy Harper)说：“NHS仍依赖这些过时的系统令人担忧。连普通老百姓都能使用廉价的云端存储，医院早就该用类似的备份方法了。我希望这次攻击给他们敲响了警钟。”
Others praised the service for maintaining services despite the strain. Himmat Sandut, who took his mother to the emergency room after she collapsed at home, said his experience had been smooth and fast.
也有人称赞该部门，尽管有攻击的压力，仍能坚持提供服务。希姆马特·桑德特(Himmat Sandut)在母亲在家中晕倒后带她来急诊室就诊，他说，看病的经历很顺利，也很快。
“I was worried we would be faced with a huge queue, but we were seen within 10 minutes, and they’ve now given my mum a bed,” he said on Saturday. “I’m surprised and impressed under the current circumstances.”
“我担心我们可能会要排大队，但10分钟内我们就见到了大夫，现在他们已给我妈安排了床位。”他在周六说。“考虑到目前的情况，我感到很惊讶，这也给我留下了很好的印象。”
The least-functioning part of the hospital appeared to be the elevator, which got stuck on Saturday before resuming operations — in the wrong direction.
这家医院里毛病最多的东西似乎是升降梯，周六，有人曾一度被困在电梯里，虽然电梯后来恢复了运行，但却是朝着相反的方向。
“Was the elevator hacked as well?” one man said jokingly, causing an elevator packed with tense doctors and nurses to erupt in laughter. “Are we going to have to pay a ransom to get out?”
“电梯是不是也被黑客入侵了？”一名男子开玩笑地问道，令多名挤在电梯里的神经紧张的医生和护士大笑起来。“我们需要支付赎金才能出去吗？”