The estimated number of tigers living in the wild rose this year for the first time in more than a century, conservation organizations said. New technology, including hidden cameras, are helping to track and count the animals, which may account for some of the increase.
保育团体表示，野生老虎的数量据估算在今年出现了百余年来的首度增长。老虎的追踪与统计工作有了隐藏式摄影机等新科技的帮助，可能也是一些统计数量增加的原因。
There are now an estimated 3,890 wild tigers, mostly in Asia, up from a worldwide tiger population of 3,200 estimated in 2010, the World Wildlife Fund and Global Tiger Forum announced on Monday. Wild tigers are considered endangered and had seen shrinking numbers because of hunting, poaching and loss of habitat, such as deforestation, particularly in Sumatra, for palm oil, and paper and pulp industries, the groups said. The official count had declined every year since 1900, when tigers numbered an estimated 100,000.
世界自然基金会(World Wildlife Fund，简称WWF)与全球老虎论坛(Global Tiger Forum)在周一宣布，全球野生老虎约有3890只，大多栖息在亚洲，比2010年时所估算的3200只有所增长。这两个机构表示，野生老虎被视为濒危物种，因为狩猎、盗猎与栖息地的消失使其数量锐减。其中森林砍伐是老虎栖息地消失的原因之一，尤其是在印尼苏门答腊为了棕梠油以及纸张与纸浆工业所做的砍伐。野生老虎在1900年估计有10万只，此后的官方统计数字每年都在减少。
“For the first time after decades of constant decline, tiger numbers are on the rise,” said Marco Lambertini, director general of WWF International, in a statement. “This offers us great hope and shows that we can save species and their habitats when governments, local communities and conservationists work together.”
“经过数十年来的稳定减少，老虎的数量首次出现成长，”世界自然基金会的国际总干事马可‧兰博蒂尼(Marco Lambertini)在一份声明中表示。“这给我们带来很大的希望，也显示在政府、地方居民与保育专家同心协力之下，我们能够拯救物种与其栖息地。”
The report was based on wild tiger data from 13 countries. It was released ahead of a major tiger conservation meeting scheduled to begin Tuesday in New Delhi, with remarks by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India. The meeting will be the first since governments agreed at a summit in Russia in 2010 to double the wild tiger population by 2022.
周一这份报告是根据13国的野生老虎资料所做的。一场老虎保育会议定于周二在新德里揭开序幕。该报告在会议开始前发表，还收录了印度总理纳伦德拉‧莫迪(Narendra Modi)的评论。2010年，各国政府在俄罗斯一场峰会中达成共识，要在2022年前让野生老虎数量翻番。本次在新德里举办的是继该峰会之后的首次重要会议。
In the 2016 report, the countries that showed increases in their wild tiger count included India (2,226); Russia (433); Nepal (198); and Bhutan (103). The numbers are estimates.
在这份2016年的报告中，野生老虎数量增加的国家有印度(2226只)、俄罗斯(433只)、尼泊尔(198只)、不丹(103只)。这些数量都是估计值。
The rise is likely because some countries are adding more territory to their national surveys, and conservation efforts are likely to be paying off.
老虎数量的增长可能是因为一些国家在调查时纳入了更多的地区，此外为保育所做的努力也很可能有了成效。
Advances in technology since 2010 have also helped national surveys in some countries show an upward trend, said Ginette Hemley, the WWF senior vice president of wildlife conservation.
世界自然基金会负责野生动物保护的高级副主席吉内特‧赫姆利(Ginette Hemley)表示，某些国家的调查显示出老虎数量上升的趋势，也在一定程度上是拜2010年以来科技进步之赐。
Tiger excrement is analyzed for DNA, and cameras that are triggered by motion and planted in forests help capture images of tigers that a human tracker might not have been able to see.
调查人员对老虎排泄物进行了DNA检测，还在森林里装设可借由动态触发的摄影机，在人类追踪员可能无法目测的地方拍下老虎的影像。
Their striping patterns are as unique as human fingerprints, and can therefore be used to more accurately count individual animals.
老虎的皮毛花纹就像人类的指纹一样独一无二，因此也可以用来更精确地计算每一只老虎。
“Tigers are very secretive and nocturnal animals and they are inherently hard to count,” Ms. Hemley said in a telephone interview. “The tools we are using now are more precise than they were six years ago.”
“老虎是夜行性动物，行踪非常隐密，本来就难计算。”赫姆利在电话访谈中表示。“我们现在使用的工具比六年前来得更精准。”
“The trend is going in a good direction over all,” she said.
“整体来说，趋势在往好的方向走。”赫姆利说。
Some of the figures that helped compose the 2016 number represent the lowest number in an estimated range, including Indonesia, with an estimated 371 tigers; Malaysia (250); Thailand (189); and Bangladesh (106). China, Vietnam and Laos showed single digit numbers.
在2016年的统计数字里，某些国家估算出来的老虎数量是估算范围的最低值，包括了印尼(317只)、马来西亚(250只)、泰国(189只)、孟加拉(106只)。中国、越南、老挝的老虎数量估计都是个位数。
The figures include data from the International Union for Conservation of Nature, government estimates and observations by conservation groups.
这些统计所采用的资料包含了国际自然保护联盟(International Union for Conservation of Nature)的数据、政府的估算以及保育团体的观察报告。
Myanmar did not update its estimate of tigers, which numbered 85 in 2010, so that number was not used in the 2016 report. Cambodia estimated it had no wild tigers; there has been no evidence of tigers recorded there since 2007.
缅甸并没有更新老虎的估计量，所以没有列入这份2016年的报告。该国的野生老虎在2010年约有85只。柬埔寨则估算国内没有野生老虎存在；该国自2007年以来就没有记录显示老虎活动的迹象了。
Ms. Hemley said Cambodia recently announced a new move to reintroduce tigers in the eastern part of the country and is negotiating to bring Bengal tigers from India, Nepal and Thailand.
赫姆利表示，柬埔寨近来宣布了一项新措施，计划在该国东部地区重新放养老虎，为了引进印度、尼泊尔、泰国等地的孟加拉虎，柬埔寨也正在与这些国家协商。