WASHINGTON —The Federal Reserve’s decision in December to taper its bond-buying campaign reflected increased confidence in the economy and continued uneasiness about the stimulus effort, according to an official account of the December meeting.
华盛顿——从美联储(Federal Reserve)去年12月的一次会议的纪要来看，当时做出的缩减债券购买规模的决定，反映了对经济的信心在增长，以及对刺激措施日益强烈的不安。
The retreat, however, is likely to proceed slowly. The account, published on Wednesday, said most Fed officials still regarded the monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities as effective in stimulating job growth. With unemployment still widespread, it said they saw little justification for completing the retreat from bond buying “now or relatively soon.”
然而，退出刺激政策应该会是一个很缓慢的过程。周三公布的会议纪要称，多数联储官员依然认为，每个月对国债和抵押担保证券的收购对刺激就业是有效的。在失业率依然高企的情况下，联储认为“立刻或相对迅速地”停止债券购买是没有什么道理的。
The Fed plans to expand its bond holdings by $75 billion this month, down from $85 billion each month last year, and officials have suggested a similar cut is the most likely result when the Fed’s policy-making committee next meets in late January.
联储计划在本月将债券持有量扩大750亿美元，比去年的每个月850亿美元有所下降，有官员表示，待1月末联储的决策委员会进行下一次会面后，很有可能还会做出类似的削减决定。
The Fed’s path forward is a final compromise forged by its outgoing chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Some Fed officials worry that the economy needs still more help; others argue that the Fed already is doing more harm than good.
联储的行动规划是行将离任的主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)做出的一次最后妥协。一些联储官员担心，经济依然需要更多帮助；还有一些人则指出，联储的举措已经产生弊大于利的效果。
Mr. Bernanke, who will step down at the end of the month, predicted in June that the Fed would taper by the end of the year, and it did.
将于本月底离任的伯南克在去年6月曾预言联储到年底会做出缩减，事实的确如此。
“Participants generally anticipated that the improvement in labor market conditions would continue, and most had become more confident in that outlook,” the account said. “Against this backdrop, most participants saw a reduction in the pace of purchases as appropriate at this meeting and consistent with the committee’s previous policy communications.”
“与会者普遍预见到，劳动市场状况的改善会持续下去，他们大都对这种观点有了更强的信心，”纪要称,“在这样的背景下，大多数与会者认为放慢收购的步调是合理的，和委员会此前发布的政策观点也是一致的。”
The next wave of decisions will be made under new leadership. The Senate confirmed the Fed’s vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, as Mr. Bernanke’s successor earlier this week. She will lead her first meeting of the Fed’s policy-making committee in March. While Ms. Yellen has expressed concerns about the labor market, she supported the decision to start tempering the stimulus efforts.
联储做出下一轮决策时将会有一个新的领导层。参议院本周早些时候已经批准由联储副主席珍妮特·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)接任伯南克。她将在3月主持自己的第一次联储政策制定委员会会议。尽管曾经表达过对劳动市场的担忧，耶伦还是支持开始缩减刺激措施的决定。
Fed officials are increasingly confident that the economy will grow more quickly in 2014. In part, the outlook is improving because there is no sign that the federal government is planning another round of spending cuts, which have slowed economic growth in recent years.
联储官员对经济在2014年出现更快增长越来越有信心。之所以有这样的乐观判断，跟联邦政府没有表现出要进行新一轮支出削减有一定关系，近年来政府的这种削减对经济增长构成了制约。
The account noted that the economy has added a monthly average of 190,000 jobs over the last 15 months, and officials expect those numbers to increase.
会议纪要指出，过去15个月里平均每个月会增加19万个就业岗位，官方预计这个数字还会增加。
The Commerce Department plans on Friday to release employment data for December. Analysts expect the economy added 195,000 jobs last month.
美国商务部(Commerce Department)计划在周五发布去年12月的就业数据。分析人士预计上个月新增了19.5万个就业岗位。
Eric S. Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, was the sole dissenter at the December meeting. “I do not yet have sufficient confidence in this outlook to risk the removal of any monetary accommodation at this time,” he said then.
波士顿联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of Boston)行长埃里克·S·罗森格伦(Eric S. Rosengren)是12月会议中唯一一位持不同意见者。“对于在这个时候冒险终止任何货币调节措施的观点，我还没有充足的信心，”他当时说。
But even Mr. Rosengren’s view of the economy has since brightened. He told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday that he was reconciled to reducing bond purchases in $10 billion increments, though he cautioned against an increase in the pace of the retreat.
然而罗森格伦对经济的看法此后也变得乐观起来。他在周二接受路透社(Reuters)采访时说，他同意以100亿美元为一个梯次，逐步降低债券收购规模，不过他警告称，这种退出的步伐不能再加快了。
“I’m comfortable with the current approach that it looks like we’re going to be following through on,” he said.
“我对现在的方法是满意的，看起来我们会一直这样下去，”他说。
Still, the minutes of the December meeting reflected lingering concern among Fed officials about two exceptions to the theme of recovery. The pace of price increases has remained sluggish, and the share of adults in the labor force has fallen.
然而12月的会议纪要也反映出联储官员中间存在一种挥之不去的担忧，事关经济复苏方面的两项例外。价格增长的步伐依旧迟缓，劳动力中成年人的比例出现下降。
Prices increased by 0.9 percent over the 12 months ending in November, according to the most recent data from the Fed’s preferred inflation measure, the Commerce Department’s index of personal consumption expenditures. That pace is well below the Fed’s 2 percent target, and Fed officials predict that inflation in 2014 will once again fall well short of that target.
根据联储评估通胀时较为倚仗的商务部个人消费开支价格指数的最新数据，在截至去年11月的12个月里，价格增幅为0.9%。这比联储指定的2%这个目标慢了很多，而联储官员预测2014年的通胀将会再度大幅低于这个目标。
In a statement published after its December meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee said that it was watching inflation closely even as it reduced its support for the economy. Fed officials continue to predict that inflation will return to normal levels over the next several years, and they note that asset prices tied to inflation still reflect a similar expectation.
在12月会议后发布的一份声明中，联邦公开市场委员会(Federal Open Market Committee)说，尽管正在减少对经济的支持，委员会仍会密切关注通胀状况。联储官员依然预言通胀在未来数年内会恢复到正常水平，他们指出在和通胀息息相关的资产价格中也能看到类似的趋势。
The account said that some officials noted that prices for health care and financial services had climbed particularly slowly in recent years, holding down the overall rate of price increases, and they predicted that would prove transitory.
纪要称，一些官员认为近年来医疗保障和金融服务的价格增长格外缓慢，拖累了整体的价格增长速度，他们预测这种情况是暂时性的。
Other officials, however, “raised the possibility that recent declines in inflation might suggest that the economic recovery was not as strong as some thought,” according to the minutes of the meeting.
然而纪要中还可以看到，有官员提出“近期通胀的下滑可能意味着，经济复苏并没有一些人认为的那么有力。”