Vehicle sales in the United States are running at a record pace, prompting automakers to consider ways to capitalize on the boom times.
美国的汽车销售正达到前所未有的速度，这促使汽车制造商们开始考虑如何充分利用这个繁荣时期赚钱。
One of their strategies is becoming increasingly clear. Automakers are quickly expanding their product lineups, introducing a blitz of new models in virtually every market segment — from giant sport utility vehicles to compact electric cars.
他们的其中一个策略变得越来越明晰。汽车制造商们在快速扩大自己的产品线，在几乎每个细分市场上快速推出新车型——从巨大的运动型多功能轿车到紧凑型电动车。
Many of the latest offerings were on display on Wednesday at the media previews for the New York International Auto Show. Both Nissan and Volkswagen’s Audi luxury brand unveiled high-horsepower sports cars, and Ford’s Lincoln division showed a new version of its full-size Navigator S.U.V. At the other end of the spectrum, Hyundai introduced a new sedan devoted to hybrid and electric power.
很多最新车型都在周三的纽约国际车展(New York International Auto Show)媒体预展会上亮相。尼桑(Nissan)和大众(Volkswagen)的奢侈品牌奥迪(Audi)都发布了大马力运动型轿车，福特(Ford)旗下的林肯(Lincoln)品牌推出新版全尺寸领航员(Navigator)SUV。与之对应的现代汽车(Hyundai)推出了新的混合动力版和纯电动版汽车。
The parade of new models provide another reminder of the striking turnaround in the auto industry. Just a few years ago, after a deep recession, automakers faced major restructuring, including the government-backed bankruptcies of General Motors and Chrysler.
众多新车型的出现表明，汽车行业出现重大转机。就在几年前，在经历严重衰退之后，汽车行业出现重大重组，包括通用汽车(General Motors)和克莱斯勒(Chrysler)在政府支持下的破产。
Back then, the goal was to pare back brands and models to save money. But now, with most companies posting big profits, they are splurging on new investments and technology.
当时，各大汽车制造商的目标是削减品牌和车型，节省成本。但是现在，随着大多数汽车生产公司获取巨额利润，他们又开始斥巨资进行新投资，开发新技术。
And with the industry coming off record sales of 17.5 million vehicles last year in the United States, no automaker wants to be underrepresented in hot segments like small S.U.V.s, or even niche products, such as sports cars.
去年，美国汽车业共售出1750万辆汽车，打破了历史记录，所以没有哪个汽车制造商甘于落后，不管是在小型SUV等热门细分市场上，还是在运动型轿车等小众产品市场上。
“The industry as a whole has never been as healthy as it is now,” said Carlos Ghosn, chief executive of Nissan and Renault. “It’s a very favorable environment.”
“整个汽车业从未如此兴旺过，”尼桑和雷诺(Renault)的首席执行官卡洛斯·古森(Carlos Ghosn)说，“现在的市场环境很好。”
Nissan, which has enjoyed strong sales of its mainstream cars and S.U.V.s, is adding to its lineup with new versions of its GT-R sports car and Titan pickup truck. The goal, Mr. Ghosn said, is to increase market share in the robust American market.
尼桑的主流车和SUV销售强劲，目前正在推出新版GT-R运动型轿车和泰坦皮卡(Titan)。古森说，该公司的目标是在强劲的美国市场上增加市场占有率。
“Market share is a result of the investment that you do,” said Mr. Ghosn. “We’re doing all this investment to get a good return by having a bigger piece of the pie.”
“市场份额是投资的回报，”古森说。“我们进行所有这些投资都是通过拥有更大的市场份额，而获得丰厚回报。”
Industry sales so far this year are running ahead of the pace set in 2015. But there are concerns among Wall Street analysts that automakers may fall back into bad habits such as overproduction or subsidizing sales with heavy incentives.
今年到目前为止，汽车业的销售速度超过了去年同期。但是，华尔街的分析师们担心，汽车制造商可能会又走上老路，比如生产过剩，或者用高昂的奖励措施补贴销售。
Some analysts have cautioned that the sales cycle may be peaking and maybe even headed for an inevitable downturn.
有些分析师警告说，目前正值销售周期的巅峰，甚至可能面临不可避免的衰退。
“The sales results in the U.S. so far this year have been positive, but there remains a question of when will the next shoe drop,” said Jack R. Nerad, an analyst with the auto research firm Kelley Blue Book.
“今年到目前为止，美国的汽车销售情况良好，但还是那个老问题：下一次衰退何时到来，”凯利蓝皮书公司(Kelley Blue Book)研究汽车行业的分析师杰克·R·内拉德(Jack R. Nerad)说。
Analysts point out troubling signs that the industry is trying to prop up sales. Some carmakers, for example, are pushing slower-selling models with more discounts and cheap leases, and are making mostly cosmetic changes to older vehicles to freshen their appeal.
分析师们指出，一些令人担忧的迹象表明，汽车业在努力支撑销售。比如，有些汽车制造商通过更高的折扣和廉价的租约推动滞销车型的销售，或者对旧车型进行主要集中在外形方面的改进，以重新焕发吸引力。
Industry executives say that the competitive environment is driving them to add more models in segments that are growing, such as S.U.V.s.
汽车行业的高管们表示，激烈的竞争环境正驱使他们在快速增长的细分市场上增加更多车型，比如SUV市场。
“Competition is always good for us and the consumer,” Mark Fields, chief executive of Ford Motor, said. “We’re not going to spend money for the sake of it, but we want to meet the demands of the market.”
“竞争对我们和消费者来说，永远都是好事，”福特汽车公司(Ford Motor)的首席执行官马克·菲尔德(Mark Fields)说。“我们不会单纯为了竞争而破费，但我们想满足市场的需求。”
In Ford’s case, the company needed to invest in a new Navigator to take advantage of the renewed popularity of big S.U.V.s with three rows of seating.
以福特为例，这家公司需要投资生产新款领航员SUV，以充分利用大型三排座位SUV重新焕发的吸引力。
Company executives admitted that the vehicle had grown old in comparison with the Cadillac Escalade produced by General Motors.
福特的高管们承认，与通用汽车生产的凯迪拉克凯雷德(Cadillac Escalade)相比，福特的领航员显得比较老。
It also is a linchpin in Ford’s long-term strategy to build Lincoln into a stronger competitor in the high-profit luxury segment. “We plan to get an even bigger share of the full-size luxury S.U.V.s,” said Mr. Fields.
这是福特把林肯打造成高利润奢侈汽车市场上更强大竞争者这一长期策略的关键。“我们计划在全尺寸奢华SUV市场上占据更大的市场份额。”
The German luxury brands are also aggressively adding new products. Audi, for example, introduced a convertible version of its R8 sports car powered by a huge V10 engine.
德国的多个奢侈汽车品牌也在积极增加新产品。比如，奥迪推出了敞篷版R8运动型轿车，它以强劲的V10引擎为动力。
Audi executives say companies need to stretch their product portfolios to appeal to the specific tastes of various consumers.
奥迪的高管们说，汽车公司需要扩展自己的产品组合，以迎合不同消费者的口味。
“We are seeing more fragmented market segments, so we have to come up with new concepts,” said Dietmar Voggenreiter, a member of Audi’s board of management.
“我们将看到更多的细分市场，所以我们必须拿出新概念，”奥迪管理董事会成员迪特马尔·福根赖特(Dietmar Voggenreiter)说。
Other companies are simply eager to enter segments that are dominated by competitors.
其他一些公司只是渴望进入由竞争者主导的细分市场。
The Korean carmaker Hyundai competes head-on with Toyota in many passenger car and S.U.V. categories. But the company did not have a product to rival Toyota’s top-selling line of Prius hybrids, powered by a combination of gasoline engines and batteries.
韩国汽车制造商现代汽车在很多客车和SUV门类上与丰田汽车(Toyota)全力竞争。但是这家公司之前没有一款产品可以与丰田最畅销的普锐斯(Prius)油电混合动力车系列相对抗。
On Wednesday, Hyundai introduced its new Ioniq sedan that will be available in hybrid, plug-in hybrid and pure electric versions. The automaker is also ramping up its luxury Genesis brand to broaden its clientele of wealthier consumers.
周三，现代汽车推出了新的Ioniq轿车，它包括油电混动版、插电混动版和纯电动版三款。现代还在改进自己的奢华品牌捷恩斯(Genesis)，以拓展更富有的顾客群。
Yet even as Hyundai and others step up their offerings of hybrids and electric vehicles, leaders in various segments continue to broaden their own lineups to stay ahead.
不过，就在现代等汽车制造商增加混合动力和电动汽车的车型时，各种细分市场的领头厂商也在继续扩展自己的产品系列，以保持领先地位。
Toyota has dominated hybrid sales for years with the Prius, but the company recently introduced a new generation of the basic model and, on Wednesday, introduced a new variation called Prius Prime.
多年来，丰田凭借普锐斯主导着混合动力汽车市场。不过，这家公司前不久又推出了新一代基础车型，周三还推出了普锐斯系列的一个新款，名叫Prius Prime。
Among other things, Prius Prime lets drivers operate the vehicle solely on battery power, in addition to its traditional hybrid mode. The car is also packed with autonomous features like parking assistance and cameras that monitor blind spots in the driver’s field of vision.
Prius Prime除了拥有传统的混合动力模式外，还允许司机仅凭电池动力驾车。这款车还装备了一些自动设备，比如停车辅助设备以及多个监控司机视野盲点的摄像头。
Toyota calls the vehicle the most technologically advanced hybrid on the market — serving notice that it will keep investing to stay ahead of the competition.
丰田称这辆车是市场上技术最先进的混合动力汽车，声称自己将继续投资，保持竞争优势。