BEING bilingual has some obvious advantages. Learning more than one language enables new conversations and new experiences. But in recent years, psychology researchers have demonstrated some less obvious advantages of bilingualism, too. For instance, bilingual children may enjoy certain cognitive benefits, such as improved executive function — which is critical for problem solving and other mentally demanding activities.
双语能力能带来一些显而易见的优势。多学一门语言，让你有机会开展新的对话，得到新的感受。然而心理学研究者近年来证明，双语还能带来一些不那么明显的优势。比如，双语儿童能享受到某些认知上的益处，包括更好的执行机能——这对问题解决和其他脑力要求高的活动是至关重要的。
Now, two new studies demonstrate that multilingual exposure improves not only children’s cognitive skills but also their social abilities.
现在又有两项新研究证明，接触多语不只能增进儿童的认知技能，还能改善他们的社交能力。
One study from my developmental psychology lab — conducted in collaboration with the psychologists Boaz Keysar, Zoe Liberman and Samantha Fan at the University of Chicago, and published last year in the journal Psychological Science — shows that multilingual children can be better at communication than monolingual children.
其中一项研究来自我的发展心理学实验室——与芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的心理学家博阿兹·吉萨(Boaz Keysar)、佐伊·利伯曼(Zoe Liberman)和萨曼莎·范(Samantha Fan)合作，去年发表于《心理科学》(Psychological Science)期刊——研究表明多语儿童的交流能力强于单语儿童。
We took a group of children in the United States, ages 4 to 6, from different linguistic backgrounds, and presented them with a situation in which they had to consider someone else’s perspective to understand her meaning. For example, an adult said to the child: “Ooh, a small car! Can you move the small car for me?” Children could see three cars — small, medium and large — but were in position to observe that the adult could not see the smallest car. Since the adult could see only the medium and large cars, when she said “small” car, she must be referring to the child’s “medium.”
我们在美国选择了一组4到6岁、语言背景各异的儿童，将他们置于一个必须站在他人立场上才能理解意图的情境里。例如一个大人对孩子说：“噢，小车车！你能把小车拿给我吗？”孩子能看到小、中、大三辆车，但是同时也能观察到，大人看不到最小那辆车。由于大人只能看到中、大车，当大人说“小”车时，她肯定指的是孩子看到的“中”车。
We found that bilingual children were better than monolingual children at this task. If you think about it, this makes intuitive sense. Interpreting someone’s utterance often requires attending not just to its content, but also to the surrounding context. What does a speaker know or not know? What did she intend to convey? Children in multilingual environments have social experiences that provide routine practice in considering the perspectives of others: They have to think about who speaks which language to whom, who understands which content, and the times and places in which different languages are spoken.
我们发现，双语儿童在这项任务中的表现要好于单语儿童。细想之下，这是符合直观感受的。通常，解读一个人的话语时要留意的不只是话语的内容，还有它所处的语境。说话者知道什么，不知道什么？她想要表达什么？多语环境下，孩子的同理心在社交经历中得到了例行练习：他们必须想清楚是什么人在用什么语言和谁在说话，谁能理解什么内容，还有用不同语言说话的时间和地点。
Interestingly, we also found that children who were effectively monolingual yet regularly exposed to another language — for example, those who had grandparents who spoke another language — were just as talented as the bilingual children at this task. It seems that being raised in an environment in which multiple languages are spoken, rather than being bilingual per se, is the driving factor.
有意思的是，我们还发现，一个实际上是说单语，但经常接触讲其他语言的孩子——例如有操不同语言的祖父母——在这项任务上的能力跟多语儿童一样强。看来动因是在多语环境下长大，而不是双语能力本身。
You might wonder whether our findings could be explained as just another instance of the greater cognitive skills that bilingual children have been observed to have. We wondered that, too. So we gave all the children a standard cognitive test of executive function. We found that bilingual children performed better than monolingual children, but that the kids who were effectively monolingual yet regularly exposed to another language did not. These “exposure” children performed like monolinguals on the cognitive task, but like bilinguals on the communication task. Something other than cognitive skills — something more “social” — must explain their facility in adopting another’s perspective.
你可能会想，我们的发现会不会只是再度证明，和之前观察的情况一样，双语儿童有更强的认知技能。我们也这样考虑过。因此我们对所有孩子的执行机能进行了一次标准认知测试。我们发现，双语儿童的表现强于单语儿童，那些实际上是单语，但经常接触其他语言的孩子则不然。这些“接触”多语的儿童在认知任务上的表现和单语儿童一样，而在交流任务上与双语儿童一样。肯定有某种在认知技能以外的东西——某种更接近“社交”的东西——能解释他们的这种想他人所想的特长。
In a follow-up study, forthcoming in the journal Developmental Science, my colleagues and I examined the effects of multilingual exposure on even younger children: 14- to 16-month-old babies, who are hardly speaking at all. In this study, led by Zoe Liberman and in collaboration with Professor Keysar and the psychologist Amanda Woodward, babies were shown two versions of the same object, such as a banana, one of which was visible to both the infant and an adult, the other visible to the baby yet hidden from the adult’s view. When the adult asked the baby for “the banana,” the baby might hand her either object — both were bananas, after all — yet if the baby understood the social context, he would reach more often for the banana that the adult could see.
在发表于《发育科学》(Developmental Science)期刊的一项跟进研究中，我和我的同事调查了多语接触对更小的儿童的影响，也就是14到16个月大、基本上还不会说话的婴儿。这项由佐伊·利伯曼牵头、与吉萨教授和心理学家阿曼达·伍德沃德(Amanda Woodward)合作的研究向婴儿展示了同一件物品的两个版本，比如一根香蕉，一个是婴儿和一个大人都能看到的，另一个只有婴儿能看到，大人看不到。当大人向孩子要“香蕉”时，两个版本都有可能被她交出去——毕竟，两个都是香蕉——然而如果孩子理解社交语境，他会倾向于把大人能看到的那根香蕉交出去。
We found that babies in monolingual environments reached equally often for the two bananas. Babies in multilingual environments, including those who were exposed to a second language only minimally, already understood the importance of adopting another’s perspective for communication: They reached more often for the banana that the adult could see.
我们发现，单语环境下的婴儿拿起两根香蕉的几率一样。多语环境下的婴儿，包括那些只是最低限度地接触第二语言的婴儿，已经明白在交流中替他人考虑的重要性：他们会更多地去拿大人能看到的那根香蕉。
Multilingual exposure, it seems, facilitates the basic skills of interpersonal understanding. Of course, becoming fully bilingual or multilingual is not always easy or possible for everyone. But the social advantage we have identified appears to emerge from merely being raised in an environment in which multiple languages are experienced, not from being bilingual per se. This is potentially good news for parents who are not bilingual themselves, yet who want their children to enjoy some of the benefits of multilingualism.
看来多语接触能促进人际理解的基本技能。当然，充分掌握双语或多语对很多人来说并非易事，或者根本不可能。但我们看到，仅仅在一个可以感受到多种语言存在的环境里长大，似乎就已经可以产生社交优势，不需要本身具备双语能力。对于那些自己没有掌握双语，但是希望孩子能享受多语的益处的家长来说，这可能是个好消息。