The immense Dongguan Exhibition International Hotel is popular with business travelers. It is next to the International Conference and Exhibition Center in central Dongguan, a city in southern China where factories churn out a range of goods for export. The hotel lobby has a large tank with baby sharks and small sea turtles.
恢弘的东莞会展国际大酒店颇受商务游客的欢迎。它毗邻东莞市中心的国际会展中心。酒店大堂里有座巨型水族箱，养着幼鲨和小海龟。这座华南城市的工厂出产了大量的出口商品，种类繁多。
The hotel also has on its third floor a karaoke club that has been shut down by the police. A set of double doors with dragon motifs is locked. One can peer inside through a crack. Mirrors line the interior walls. A sign in front of the doors says, “Business has been suspended for renovation. We regret any inconvenience.”
酒店三楼还有家卡拉OK厅，但已被警方查封。绘有龙纹的双开门紧闭着，可以通过上面的一道缝隙往里窥探。门前的告示写着，“停业装修。不便之处，深感抱歉。”
That sign has become common at spas and karaoke parlors in hotels across Dongguan, though “renovation” is not exactly the right term for describing the cause of the shutdowns. Last month, officials in Dongguan announced a closure of all such venues, whether inside or outside hotels, because of their reputation as dens of iniquity. The shutdown is to last for at least three months. The vice crackdown focuses on prostitution, though officials say they also aim to eradicate gambling and the use of illicit drugs. The effort is being pushed nationwide by the Ministry of Public Security in Beijing, which kicked off the campaign by making an example of Dongguan, widely known as the sex capital or Sin City of China.Propaganda around the campaign began on Feb. 9, when China Central Television, the state-run network commonly known as CCTV, broadcast a program that showed how karaoke parlors and saunas in upscale Dongguan hotels sold sex. Among the venues named was the Dongguan Exhibition International Hotel. The program showed nighttime scenes from Paris KTV, the karaoke parlor on the third floor, and followed a man who visited the club to partake of its entertainment options.
在东莞各酒店的休闲中心与卡拉OK厅，这样的告示已变得颇为常见，然而“装修”并不能准确描述歇业的理由。上个月，东莞官方宣布关停酒店内外的所有此类场所，理由是它们背负的藏污纳垢的恶名。停业整顿预计将持续至少三个月。打击“黄赌毒”行动的重点是性交易，尽管官方宣称同时也旨在杜绝赌博与滥用违禁药物。这项行动正被北京的公安部推向全国，而东莞首当其冲地被拿来以儆效尤。作为中国的“性都”与“罪恶都市”，东莞声名远扬。围绕着这场行动的宣传攻势始于2月9日。当天，国有媒体中央电视台（简称央视）播出了一期节目，曝光东莞高档酒店的卡拉OK厅与桑拿房涉及卖淫活动。被点名的场所就包括东莞会展国际大酒店。节目中展示了位于酒店三楼的“夜巴黎”KTV里的夜间景象，还跟踪了来到这家夜店进行娱乐消费的一名男性。
Besides shutting down Paris KTV after the broadcasting of the CCTV program, the police also closed a sauna on the hotel’s second floor. The sauna is called New Idea Leisure Center. Beyond the glass entrance doors is a shelf with silver-painted statuettes of naked women in artful poses, a naked woman kissing a naked man and a man lifting a woman wearing a tutu.
警察不仅在央视节目曝光后查封了“夜巴黎”KTV，还关停了酒店二楼的桑拿部。这家桑拿房名为“新概念休闲中心”。透过它的玻璃门可以看到，里面有一座架子上摆放着几尊银色的塑像：艺术造型的各式裸女，有一个裸女在吻一个裸男，还有男士托举身着芭蕾舞裙的女士。
On a recent morning, a man dressed in a suit and clutching a walkie-talkie followed a journalist who had been trying to peer in through the doors of the karaoke club and the sauna. A woman in a navy-blue suit rushed out of a hair salon next to the sauna and told the visitor that the sauna was closed indefinitely.A hotel manager, Mei Xianjiang, also known as David Mei, sat down with the journalist near the fish tank with the baby sharks and sea turtles. He was a thin man who spoke with a nervous cadence. He said The New York Times was the first news organization to come to the hotel since CCTV broadcast its program on Dongguan brothels.
不久前的一个上午，记者正试图通过大门往卡拉OK厅和桑拿房里张望，一名手拿对讲机、身穿西装的男子跟在了身后。身穿深蓝套装的女士从桑拿房隔壁的发廊冲了出来，告诉前来探访的记者，桑拿房无限期关闭了。在大堂那个游着幼鲨和海龟的水族箱边，酒店经理梅贤将（英文名David）与记者坐下来聊了几句。他身材单薄，讲话时颇为紧张。他说，央视播了东莞色情业的节目后，《纽约时报》是第一家前来他们酒店采访的新闻机构。
Mr. Mei said the hotel did not manage the karaoke club. “Those people are all gone now,” he said.
梅先生表示，卡拉OK厅不是酒店经营的。“那些人现在都走了，”他说。
Asked whether there had ever been sex workers in either that venue or the sauna, he said no. “There are no illegal activities.”
当被问到卡拉OK或是桑拿房是否曾经有过性工作者时，他给出了否定的回答。“不存在违法活动。”
He added that being named in the CCTV program was “undeserved” and that the shutdown of entertainment venues in the hotel meant business now was “a lot slower than before.” Guest numbers had fallen.
他还说，酒店被央视点名曝光很“冤枉”，而娱乐场所被查封意味着，现在的生意“比以前差多了”。客人数量一落千丈。
“The impact on all of Dongguan is big,” he said. “If you go around and ask at other hotels, you’ll find the same thing.”
“对整个东莞的影响很大，”他说。“你到处看看，问问别的酒店，情况都一样。”
The hotel still appeared to be a popular site for business meetings. On the third floor, near the closed karaoke parlor, Ping An Insurance Group, one of China’s largest insurance companies, was holding an appreciation ceremony for local employees in a ballroom. In one corner was a pile of teddy bears wrapped in clear plastic. In the lobby, several women sat at a reception desk to welcome employees from a technology company.
这家酒店看起来仍是商业会议的热门场所。在三楼，歇业的卡拉OK厅附近的一间宴会厅里，中国最大的保险企业之一平安保险集团正举办当地员工的答谢会。某个角落里摆放着一堆透明塑料包装的泰迪熊。酒店大堂里，几名女士坐在接待处迎接一家科技企业的员工。
Outside the front doors of the hotel, scores of corporate workers in suits posed for a group photograph. The hotel had a side entrance with an elevator that gave access to Paris KTV on the third floor. Mr. Mei said it was useless to take the elevator up since the nightclub was closed. “We don’t know when it will reopen,” he said. “That depends on the government.”
酒店大门的外面，几十名身着西装的企业员工在拍集体照。酒店还有扇侧门，里面有部电梯直达三楼的“夜巴黎”KTV。梅先生说，既然夜店关了，这部电梯也就没用了。“我们不清楚什么时候可以再开，”他说。“这要问政府。”