A black S.U.V. recently rolled through the streets of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and stopped in front of the converted warehouse that is the global headquarters of Vice Media. Out of the vehicle stepped the media mogul Rupert Murdoch.
前不久，一辆黑色的SUV车驶过布鲁克林威廉姆斯堡的街头，停在Vice传媒由仓库改建的国际总部门口，从车上走下来的是传媒界的大人物鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)。
Mr. Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox owns a small stake in Vice, and he was visiting Brooklyn to meet with Vice’s chief executive, Shane Smith. Among the topics at hand was a rumor that Vice was negotiating to collaborate with, and perhaps sell a large stake to, one of Fox’s competitors, Time Warner.
默多克的21世纪福克斯公司拥有Vice的一小部分股份，他来布鲁克林是想见Vice的首席执行官尚恩·史密斯(Shane Smith)。他们的议题包括这样一条谣言：Vice正在与福克斯公司竞争对手之一的时代华纳公司谈判合作，或许还要出卖一大笔股份给它。
Fox is discussing a deal with Vice, too. So is Disney. Any agreement is likely to value Vice, which started as a free magazine in Montreal in 1994, at $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion. A partnership could take many shapes. But Vice, which has produced limited programming expressly for television, is seeking its own TV network, a movie deal and a lot of money for its founders and investors.
福克斯公司也在和Vice谈判一笔交易，迪斯尼也是。Vice的起点是一个蒙特利尔的独立杂志，创刊于1994年，如今，与这些公司的任何一笔交易中，它的估值都可能在15亿到25亿美元之间。合作可能有很多形式，但Vice已经制作了一些项目，显然是提供给电视的，它希望建立自己的电视网络、签一个电影合约，为它的创始人和投资者们大赚一笔。
The digital disruption that is transforming the news and entertainment businesses has led to many odd alliances, but few seem more incongruous than one that would join Vice with a corporate media conglomerate. Though financing itself mostly by making videos in partnership with large corporations, Vice has assiduously cultivated an insurgent image, with its tattooed news correspondents, hand-held cameras and journalistic stunts like sending the former basketball player Dennis Rodman to North Korea.
数码产业的破坏力在改变着新闻和娱乐业，这导致了很多奇怪的联盟，但是Vice加入一家大型传媒集团这个想法还是让人觉得太不搭调了。Vice赚钱主要是依靠和大公司合作制作视频，但它也一直不懈地维持自己的叛逆者形象，它有带纹身的新闻记者、使用手持摄像机、制造新闻噱头，比如把前篮球运动员丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)送到朝鲜访问之类。
Along the way, Mr. Smith, 44, has routinely criticized the mainstream media and traditional television. If he can reach a deal with one of these companies, he will be joining the club he has professed to disdain.
一直以来，44岁的史密斯经常批评主流媒体和传统电视业。如果他和这些公司签一份合约，他就会加入那个自己公然鄙视的俱乐部。
And yet here he is, in negotiations involving the likes of James Murdoch, Rupert’s son and Fox’s heir apparent; Robert A. Iger, chief executive of Disney; and Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief executive of Time Warner. All of them are desperately scrambling to reach a generation of consumers who are more attached to their mobile phones than to traditional television.
但他却在与鲁伯特之子、福克斯的法定继承人詹姆斯·默多克(James Murdoch)谈判，还有迪斯尼的首席执行官罗伯特·A·伊格(Robert A. Iger)、时代华纳的首席执行官杰弗里·L·比克斯(Jeffrey L. Bewkes)等人。这些人都拼命争抢新一代的消费者，他们对手机比对传统电视更感兴趣。
The executives covet Vice’s unruly, D.I.Y. sensibility — “News from the edge” is the tagline for its 30-minute weekly program on HBO — and, above all, the connection it has established with its core audience of young men.
这些执行官们觊觎Vice这种不守规矩、自己动手的易感性——“来自边缘的新闻”是它在HBO台每周播放的30分钟节目的广告词——最主要的是，他们还觊觎Vice和年轻的核心观众建立起来的联系。
Now that he is in conversations that could net his company hundreds of millions of dollars, Mr. Smith, normally brash and outspoken, is trying to be discreet. Though he would not speak about the various deals Vice is discussing, he talked about his vision for the company’s future and television’s role in it recently at his office.
史密斯现在正在进行能令公司获益数亿美元的谈判，他一贯傲慢而坦率，如今正学着审慎一点。尽管他不愿谈起Vice目前正在进行的各种谈判，但最近他在自己的办公室接受采访时谈了自己对公司未来的看法，以及电视在其中扮演的地位。
“It’s the next step in our evolution,” he said. “Our mobile and online stuff is going to grow exponentially, but we want a three-legged stool, and the third leg is TV.”
“这是我们发展的下一步，”他说，“我们的移动与网络部门员工正在呈指数级别增加，但我们希望用三条腿站立，这个第三条腿就是电视。”
Bearded and bearish, Mr. Smith looks as if he belongs at a Viking feast, drinking mead from his helmet. Instead, he was sipping chilled premier cru Chablis poured by an assistant.
史密斯满脸胡须，脾气粗暴，仿佛是维京人盛宴上用头盔畅饮蜜酒的人物。事实上，他喝的是冰镇的夏布利一级葡萄酒，是助理倒给他的。
Fox, Disney and Time Warner all declined to comment.
福克斯、迪斯尼和时代华纳都拒绝对此进行评论。
Deals that join heavily hyped digital companies with large media conglomerates do not always end well. News Corporation bought the website Myspace for $580 million in 2005, and sold it six years later for $35 million. Time Warner’s 2000 merger with AOL is now taught to aspiring M.B.A.s as the worst business transaction in history.
大热的数码公司与大型媒体集团进行的谈判，最后的结局通常通常不怎么美妙。2005年新闻集团曾以5.8亿美元收购Myspace网站，6年后以3500万美元卖出。2000年，时代华纳与AOL的联合如今已经作为史上最糟的商业交易案例用于MBA教学。
Mr. Smith contends Vice is different. The company’s finances are private, but a person familiar with its business said it expected to generate about $500 million in revenue in 2014. A vast majority comes not from online news content but from videos created to resemble news content, paid for by companies like Intel and AT&T.
史密斯声称，Vice是不一样的。公司的财务状况是保密的，但一位熟悉Vice经营的人士称，2014年它预计创造5亿美元的收入。其中大部分不是来自网络新闻，而是来自类似新闻的视频内容，由英特尔与AT&T等公司出钱。
Vice would also arrive with a devoted following, though the size of its audience is hard to verify independently. The hope is that it will not become another Myspace, but a modern, multiplatform MTV. Tom Freston, a founder and former chief executive of MTV who went on to run Viacom, is one of Vice’s investors and closest advisers.
Vice还拥有一批忠实拥趸，尽管它的观众数量很难单独核算。希望它不会成为另一个Myspace，而是成为现代的、跨平台的MTV。MTV的创始人之一与前首席执行官汤姆·弗莱斯顿(Tom Freston)后来执掌维亚康姆公司，他是Vice的投资者与最密切的顾问之一。
MTV was built on an original concept: the pop-music video. Vice’s appeal is that it has branded a certain kind of cool, but coolness is an ephemeral concept. And there is exponentially more content to compete with now than when MTV began in 1981, making it harder than ever to stand out.
MTV成立之初是建立在流行音乐录像的基础之上。Vice的魅力来自它已为自己打上“酷”的标记，但“酷”是个短暂易逝的概念。和MTV在1981年初创之时相比，现在需要竞争的东西要多得多，一直保持卓越不凡就更难了。
Vice got its first taste for television when it started producing its weekly newsmagazine show for HBO last year. It recently broadcast the final episode of its second season, featuring reports from crime-ridden Camden, N.J., and refugee camps in Chad and Darfur. (In last year’s infamous finale, Mr. Rodman and three members of the Harlem Globetrotters played before Kim Jong-un in North Korea.)
去年，Vice开始为HBO台制作每周的新闻杂志秀，这是它第一次制作电视节目。最近，这个节目的第二季刚刚播出了最后一集，内容包括犯罪猖獗的新泽西州卡姆登，以及乍得和达尔富尔的难民营。去年这个节目的最后一集可谓臭名昭著，拍的是罗德曼和其他三个哈林花式篮球队的队员在朝鲜为金正恩表演。