Now that The New York Times has put together a stomach-turning chronicle of alleged sexual harassment by movie mogul Harvey Weinstein — complete with brave, on-the-record statements from, among others, actress Ashley Judd — we’re hearing a lot about how the story of his misconduct was “the worst-kept secret” in Hollywood and New York.
《纽约时报》为被指实施性骚扰的电影大亨哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)弄了一部令人反胃的编年史——与勇于公开发声的女演员艾什莉·贾德(Ashley Judd)等人的声明相辅相成——让我们得以深入了解他的不端行径在好莱坞和纽约是何等“公开的秘密”。
But until now, no journalistic outfit had been able, or perhaps willing, to nail the details and hit publish.
但此前，任何一家新闻机构都没能——或许是不愿意——挖掘并曝光相关细节。
For decades, stars of Oscar-winning movies produced by Weinstein appeared on the covers of glossy magazines, chitchatted with late-night hosts and provided fodder for gossip columns and broadsheet features while the uncouth executive partly responsible for their success maintained his special status in Beverly Hills and New York City.
数十年来，韦恩斯坦打造出一部又一部荣获奥斯卡奖的影片，当片中的明星登上光鲜的杂志封面，与深夜节目主持人攀谈，给八卦专栏和大报特稿提供素材的时候，为他们的成功出过力的这位粗野高管，在比弗利山庄和纽约城保有着特殊的地位。
Somehow the whispers concerning his alleged hotel-room and workplace abuses never threatened his next big deal, industry award or accolades, which included an honorary Commander of the British Empire appointment.
不知怎的，关于他在酒店房间和工作场所侵犯他人的传闻，从未危及他的下一笔大买卖、下一项业内奖项或荣誉，其中就包括大英帝国司令勋章。
The real story didn’t surface until now because too many people in the intertwined news and entertainment industries had too much to gain from Weinstein for too long. Across a run of more than 30 years, he had the power to mint stars, to launch careers, to feed the ever-famished content beast. And he did so with quality films that won statuettes and made a whole lot of money for a whole lot of people.
真相此前从未浮现，因为长久以来，在错综复杂的新闻和娱乐行业，有太多人需要从韦恩斯坦那里得到太多东西。他在超过30年时间里有能力去造星、开创事业、喂养贪得无厌的内容怪兽。与此同时，他那些高品质的电影获奖无数，让众多人等大赚特赚。
“The unfortunate reality of Hollywood is that if someone has money, then they can generally find some kind of audience of people who are interested in working with them,” said Kim Masters, the editor-at-large at The Hollywood Reporter. This was particularly true of Weinstein, who, she said, was known for having “the golden touch” that produced “Pulp Fiction” and “Good Will Hunting,” “The King’s Speech” and “Shakespeare in Love.”
“好莱坞的一个悲哀现实是，某个人如果有钱，便会逐渐找到某些愿意与其共事的追随者，”《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)资深编辑金·马斯特斯(Kim Masters)表示。她说这一点在拥有“金手指”、打造出《低俗小说》(Pulp Fiction)、《心灵捕手》(Good Will Hunting)、《国王的演讲》(The King’s Speech)和《莎翁情史》(Shakespeare in Love)的韦恩斯坦身上体现得淋漓尽致。
Masters had been chasing the Weinstein story for years. She said she had gotten near “the end zone” once, only to bump up against the ultimate silencer: fear.
马斯特斯多年来一直在追踪韦恩斯坦的故事。她说自己一度接近了“得分区”，但却遭遇了终极消音器：恐惧。
“At the last minute, the source withdrew,” she told me.
“在最后关头，提供消息的人退缩了，”她告诉我。
She said she wanted to believe that times were changing, given the number of women who have put their names to the words that derailed the careers of Bill Cosby, who faced criminal charges that resulted in a mistrial this year, and Bill O’Reilly. But she also wondered aloud whether trouble had finally found Weinstein because he was no longer the rainmaker and hitmaker he had once been.
她说她想要相信，时代正在发生变化，因为有很多女性站出来讲诉自己的亲身经历，让比尔·考斯比(Bill Cosby)和比尔·奥莱利(Bill O'Reilly)的职业生涯受到沉重打击。考斯比还受到了刑事指控，此后在今年以无效审判暂时告一段落。但她也怀疑，麻烦终于找上韦恩斯坦的原因可能在于他已经不是以前那个能呼风唤雨的大片制造者了。
“This industry is passionate about causes,” Masters said, “but when it comes down to doing business, they’re definitely capable of holding their noses.”
“这个行当的人对正当性充满热诚，”马斯特斯说，“但如果是为了做生意，他们绝对可以捏着鼻子做事。”
With the knowledge that the Times article was heading toward publication, and with word of a similar piece in the works at The New Yorker, Weinstein assembled an all-star team of crisis-management experts and lawyers that included Lisa Bloom. Bloom, who says she is working only as an “adviser” to Weinstein, is known for her work representing alleged (and often confirmed) victims of sexual harassment, including those who took on O’Reilly.
得知时报的文章即将发表，《纽约客》(The New Yorker)也在准备一篇类似的文章，韦恩斯坦组建了一个由危机管理专家和律师构成的全明星团队，其中包括莉萨·布鲁姆(Lisa Bloom)。自称仅以“顾问”身份为韦恩斯坦工作的布鲁姆，曾给据称是性骚扰受害者的人（常常被确认）当代理人并以此闻名，其中就包括把矛头对准奥莱利的那些受害者。
Bloom shared one reason she may have been sympathetic to Weinstein on Twitter in April, when she wrote, “My book SUSPICION NATION is being made into a miniseries, produced by Harvey Weinstein and Jay Z!”
透过布鲁姆今年4月发的一则推文，或许可以看出她支持韦恩斯坦的一个原因：“我的书《嫌疑国度》(Suspicion Nation)正被制作成一部连续短剧，由哈维·韦恩斯坦和Jay Z打造！”
Weinstein has admitted to some inappropriate behavior, and Bloom has attributed his missteps to his status as a “dinosaur” who is now “learning new ways.”
韦恩斯坦承认自己有过一些不当的行为，布鲁姆将这些行为归因于他是一个正在“学习新规矩”的守旧落伍之人。
Certainly, shamefully, there is a long tradition of disgusting harassment of women who try to make it in the movie business. (Jack L. Warner, a founder of Warner Bros. studios, was no saint.)
当然了，对想要在电影圈获得成功的女性进行令人作呕的骚扰，是一种其来有自的可耻传统。（华纳兄弟电影公司[Warner Bros. studios]创始人之一杰克·华纳[Jack Warner]绝非圣人。）
The image that Weinstein had concocted for himself — that of a classic Hollywood type, the hot-tempered but charming mogul — took a serious hit in 2015 when an aspiring actress, Ambra Battilana, accused him of groping her at his Tribeca offices. The New York Police Department’s Special Victims Division investigated the matter, resulting in a lot of bad press and some hard questions from his board. As the Times investigation revealed, however, no charges materialized after Weinstein paid off his latest accuser in a confidential settlement.
韦恩斯坦喜欢把自己塑造成一个脾气火爆但充满魅力的大人物，但这种形象在2015年受到严重冲击，当时，刚出道的女演员安布拉·巴蒂拉娜(Ambra Battilana)指控韦恩斯坦在其位于翠贝卡的办公场所对自己上下其手。纽约市警察局的特别受害者司调查了此事，给他招来了大量负面新闻和董事会的严厉质询。不过，正如时报的调查所揭示的，在韦恩斯坦付钱给最新的指控者，与其达成秘密和解之后，他没有遭到起诉。
Hollywood isn’t the only industry still abiding behavior that never had a rightful place in civilized society. Not at all. But it stands out because the industry often holds itself up as a force for moral good, its awards ceremonies filled with beribboned attendees.
好莱坞不是唯一一个仍在容忍绝不能见容于文明社会的行为的地方。绝对不是。它之所以引人注目，是因为这一行的男男女女常常以道德捍卫者自居，颁奖典礼上充斥着道貌岸然的与会者。
As my colleagues who wrote the investigative article about Weinstein, Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey, noted, he was allegedly harassing women in five-star hotel rooms across the globe even as his company was distributing films like “The Hunting Ground,” a 2015 documentary about sexual assault on college campuses. He also helped endow a “Gloria Steinem” faculty chair at Rutgers; joined a national women’s march in Park City, Utah, in January; and was a big fundraiser for and supporter of Hillary Clinton.
正如我的同事、撰写关于韦恩斯坦的调查性文章的乔迪·坎特(Jodi Kantor)和梅根·图伊(Megan Twohey)所指出的，他据称在全球各地的五星级酒店房间里骚扰女性之际，其公司却在发行《猎场》(The Hunting Ground)之类的电影——这部2015年的纪录片讲的是大学校园里的性侵。此外，他帮助在罗格斯大学(Rutgers)捐赠设立了一个与“葛罗莉亚·斯坦能”(Gloria Steinem)有关的教席；于今年1月他在犹他州帕克城参加了女性大游行；他还是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的大募款人和支持者。
The allegations against Weinstein have come to light several years after similar stories concerning Cosby. The charges against the once-beloved comedian and sitcom star had been floating around for years. But they generally stayed hidden — and did not figure in the biography of Cosby by former Newsweek editor Mark Whitaker, published shortly before his public image unraveled — because of what my predecessor, David Carr, described as Cosby’s “stalwart enablers” and “ferocious lawyers.”
早在对韦恩斯坦的指控浮出水面若干年前，人们就听说过关于考斯比的类似故事。这名一度深受喜爱的喜剧演员和情景喜剧明星所受的指控，已在坊间流传多年。但它们通常不为公众所知，没被纳入由《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)前编辑马克·惠特克(Mark Whitaker)撰写的考斯比传记，如我的前任大卫·卡尔(David Carr)所言，其原因是考斯比拥有“强大的后盾”和“凶悍的律师”。该传记在考斯比的公众形象变得支离破碎不久前面世。
Weinstein had his own enablers. He built his empire on a pile of positive press clippings that, before the internet era, could have reached the moon. Carr wrote in a 2001 New York magazine profile of Weinstein, of whom he was an astute observer: “As the keeper of star-making machinery, Weinstein has re-engineered the media process so that he lives beyond its downsides.”
韦恩斯坦也有其后盾。他以一系列正面媒体报道为基础，建立了自己的王国，在互联网时代到来前，那些报道摞起来恐怕可以触到天上的月亮。2011年，卡尔在写给《纽约》(New York)杂志的一篇关于韦恩斯坦的人物特写中，对其有着敏锐的观察：“作为造星机器的拥有者，韦恩斯坦重塑了媒体的流程，如此一来他便能远离负面新闻。”
Every now and then, glimpses of his nasty side spilled out, like when he placed reporter Andrew Goldman in a headlock and dragged him out of a party in 2000. Someone who was involved in that altercation, Rebecca Traister, wrote in New York’s The Cut on Thursday that it didn’t get the media attention it deserved because “there were so many journalists on his payroll, working as consultants on movie projects, or as screenwriters, or for his magazine.”
他时不时会展现出令人厌恶的一面，比如在2000年对记者安德鲁·高德曼(Andrew Goldman)使出一招锁喉手，并将其拖离派对现场。卷入冲突的丽贝卡·特雷斯特(Rebecca Traister)上周四在《纽约》杂志的“The Cut”子网站上写到，此事没有从媒体处获得应有的关注，因为“有太多记者受雇于他，担任电影项目的顾问或编剧，或为他的杂志工作。”
And what about the eerie Hollywood silence? As The Daily Beast noted, Lena Dunham was one of the few who spoke out against Weinstein. It sure was a departure from the delight that greeted the charges against the conservative O’Reilly. Behind the scenes in Los Angeles, as Janice Min, a former editor of The Hollywood Reporter, told me, “I can guarantee the second that story hit yesterday, several men called their attorneys.”
好莱坞的诡异沉默又是怎么一回事呢？正如《每日野兽》网站(Daily Beast)所言，莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)是少数公开指责韦恩斯坦的人之一。这么做显然无法像指责身为保守派的奥莱利那样让万众欢腾。就像《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)的前编辑珍尼斯·米恩(Janice Min)告诉我的，“我敢保证，这篇文章昨天广为流传之际”，在洛杉矶“有好几个男人”暗地里“给律师打了电话”。
There will be questions for those who knew what was going on but did nothing, for the agents who dispatched would-be stars to his hotel suites when they may have understood what the cost would be and for the editors and reporters who conveniently didn’t bother to look into the tales making the rounds.
明白发生了什么事却无所作为的人，把想当明星的人领进他的酒店套间且或许知道代价是什么的中间人，以及那些恰巧没有费力追究传言的记者和编辑，都将面对质疑。
I asked Min how many other Harveys were out there.
我问米恩还有多少个哈维。
“No name comes up more than Harvey Weinstein in this sort of behavior,” she told me. But, she added, “I guarantee there are many more rocks to overturn.”
“就这种行为而言，没有谁比哈维·韦恩斯坦的名字更为人所知，”她告诉我。但她补充说，“我敢保证会有更多盖子被掀开。”
The sooner, the better. It’s time for the era of open secrets to come to an end.
越快越好。保有公开秘密的时代是时候走向尽头了。