Update:
更新：
Martin Winterkorn resigned as chief executive of Volkswagen on Wednesday, taking responsibility for an emissions cheating scandal that has gravely damaged the carmaker’s reputation.
大众汽车首席执行官马丁·文德恩周三宣布辞职，为该品牌排放检测作弊丑闻负责。此次丑闻事件严重损害了这个汽车制造商的声誉。
“As C.E.O., I accept responsibility for the irregularities that have been found in diesel engines,” Mr. Winterkorn, 68, said in a statement.
“作为首席执行官，我接受对于柴油发动机违规所应承担的责任，”68岁的文德恩在一份声明中说。
But Mr. Winterkorn, who had headed the company since 2007, continued to insist that he personally had committed no misconduct. “I am not aware of any wrongdoing on my part,” he said.
但文德恩仍然坚持他个人并无过错。文德恩自2007年开始领导该公司，“我认为就个人而言我并没有做错什么，”他说。
FRANKFURT — A scandal that has undermined Volkswagen in the United States spread to its core market of Europe on Tuesday, after the company said that 11 million of its diesel cars worldwide were equipped with software that was used to cheat on emissions tests.
法兰克福——周二，在大众汽车(Volkswagen)宣布全球范围内有1100万辆大众柴油车安装了用于排放检测作弊的软件后，一场导致该公司在美国形象受损的丑闻，扩散到了其欧洲核心市场。
Volkswagen did not provide information on where the affected cars are, but the overwhelming majority are probably in Europe, where the company dominates the market and accounts for more than one of every four cars sold.
大众未提供有关受影响车辆具体在哪里的信息，但绝大部分可能在欧洲。大众在欧洲市场占主导地位。那里售出的汽车中超过四分之一来自大众。
The German automaker said it was setting aside the equivalent of half a year’s profits — 6.5 billion euros, or about $7.3 billion — to cover the cost of fixing the cars to comply with pollution standards and to cover other expenses, which are likely to include fines as well as responses to civil lawsuits from angry customers.
这家德国汽车生产商表示，正在预留相当于半年利润的资金——65亿欧元（约合460亿元人民币）——用于支付对相关车辆进行修理，以使其符合污染标准的费用和其他花费。其他费用可能包括罚款，以及应对愤怒的消费者提起的民事诉讼所需的支出。
The carmaker’s statement, on Tuesday morning here, was its first admission that diesel cars outside the United States may contain the software that led the Environmental Protection Agency to accuse the company of deliberately evading pollution tests. Previously, Volkswagen acknowledged only that the problem affected nearly 500,000 vehicles in the United States.
周二上午，大众在这里发表声明。这是其首次承认在美国之外的地方，也有可能安装了相关软件的柴油车。该软件促使美国环境保护局（Environment Protection Agency，简称EPA）指控大众故意逃避污染检测。之前，大众仅承认这个问题影响到了美国的近50万辆车。
Tuesday afternoon, Volkswagen’s embattled chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, released a video statement in which he said the company would work with government authorities to investigate the matter. “Everything will be laid on the table, as quickly, thoroughly and transparently as possible,’’ Mr. Winterkorn said. “And, to be clear, manipulation and Volkswagen — this must never happen again.’’
周二下午，陷入困境的大众首席执行官文德恩(Martin Winterkorn)发布了一份视频声明。他在视频中表示，公司将与政府机构合作，调查此事。“一切都将尽可能迅速、彻底、透明地摆在台面上来说，”文德恩说。“而且要明确的是，把篡改和大众联系到一起的事，不能再发生了。”
The tampered vehicles use what is known as Type EA 189 engines, which are 2-liter engines. The company said on Tuesday that “a noticeable deviation between bench-test results and actual road use was established” for the engines.
被篡改的车辆使用的是一种“EA 189型”两升发动机。大众在周二表示，对这款发动机“设定了运行检测数据与实际上路使用情况之间的显著偏差”。
Volkswagen said it would also make “other efforts to win back the trust of our customers.”
大众表示还将采取“其他行动，以重获消费者的信任”。
The number of cars involved suggests that the scale of the damage to Volkswagen’s reputation and its financial standing may be even greater than thought.
此事涉及的车辆数目表明，大众的声誉和财务状况的受损程度甚至可能比预想的更大。
Volkswagen shares fell by nearly 18 percent through late-afternoon trading in Frankfurt on Tuesday, after falling by 16 percent on Monday.
周二在法兰克福，继周一下跌16%后，大众的股价在下午尾盘交易期间再跌近18%。
The diesel cars were programmed to sense when emissions were being tested and to turn on equipment that reduced emissions, according to United States officials. At other times, the cars had better fuel economy and performance, but produced as much as 40 times the allowed amount of nitrogen oxide, a pollutant that can contribute to respiratory problems including asthma, bronchitis and emphysema.
据美国官员称，按照设计，那些柴油车能探测到正在接受排放检测，并打开降低排放的设备。在其他时候，它们的节油能力和性能会更好，但产生的氮氧化物是规定标准的40倍。氮氧化物是一种污染物，可能会造成包括哮喘、支气管炎和肺气肿在内的呼吸疾病。
“Volkswagen is working intensely to eliminate these deviations through technical measures,” the company said.
“大众正在奋力通过技术手段消除这种偏差，”公司说。
It is not clear, though, how fully Volkswagen might be able to correct the problem on the 11 million vehicles. The company could presumably alter the engines, so that the cars on the road begin actually meeting the required emissions standards. But doing so would probably degrade the vehicles’ fuel economy and performance, and might cause the engines to wear out sooner.
但尚不清楚大众能在多大程度上全面修复1100万辆车上存在的这个问题。公司大概会对发动机做出改动，这样车上路时就会真的开始达到要求的排放标准。但这么做可能会降低车的节油能力和性能，并且可能导致发动机的磨损加快。
The E.P.A. has said it will ask Volkswagen to recall almost a half-million vehicles sold in the United States from 2009 to 2015. The affected Golf, Passat, Jetta and Beetle cars were equipped with 2-liter diesel engines. Some Audi models also use the same diesel engine.
EPA表示将要求大众召回2009年至2015年间在美国卖出的近50万辆车。受到影响的车型包括配备两升柴油发动机的高尔夫(Golf)、帕萨特(Passat)、捷达(Jetta)和甲壳虫(Beetle)。部分奥迪(Audi)车型也使用了同款发动机。