MOSCOW — For most of the post-Soviet years, Russia has been torn by a question that haunts its people and their rulers: Do Russians want their country to be an imperialist power feared by other nations or a land whose primary concern is its citizens’ well-being?
莫斯科——在苏联解体后的大部分时间里，俄罗斯在一个困扰着该国民众及其统治者的问题上存在分歧：俄罗斯人希望自己的国家是一个令其他国家畏惧的帝国主义大国，还是一个主要关注民众福祉的国家？
President Vladimir V. Putin has resolved the issue, or so it seems. He has decided to tip the balance in favor of ambitious expansionist politics rather than domestic development. Prosperity for the people is all very well up to a point, but it has a downside: It produces independent-minded individuals who may try to vote their ruler out of office.
弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)已经解决了这个问题，或者说看似解决了这个问题。他已经决定颠覆这种平衡，选择雄心勃勃的扩张主义政治，而非国内发展。让人民富裕的确是好事，但到了一定程度却会滋生一个缺点：它会造就思想独立的个人，而这些个人可能试图通过投票，把他们的统治者赶下台。
Pursuing grand strategies on the international stage is safer — at least for Russia’s powers that be. Defending the Russian-speaking populations of the former Soviet Union creates so much tension both at home and abroad that the domestic economic agenda is dwarfed in comparison. Who cares about economic deterioration, poor public services or endemic corruption when the nation is gripped by imperialist fervor?
在国际舞台上追求宏伟的战略更安全——至少对俄罗斯的当权者来说是这样。保卫前苏联的俄语人口在国内外造成了如此强烈的紧张氛围，以至于相比之下国内经济议题变得无足轻重。当国家陷入帝国主义狂热时，谁在乎经济衰退、公共服务糟糕、腐败蔓延呢？
But in pushing Russian expansionism is Mr. Putin really making a safer bet? When asked by pollsters about what Russia’s priorities should be, respondents are generally divided. In a recent survey by the Levada Center, a Russian nongovernmental research organization, 48 percent favored prioritizing the country’s international standing, while 47 percent said they favored a government that concentrated on creating conditions for individual prosperity.
但通过推动俄罗斯的扩张主义，普京真的做出了更安全的选择吗？在调查人员问及俄罗斯的要务应该是什么时，受访者普遍意见不一。在俄罗斯非政府调研组织勒瓦达中心(Levada Center)最近进行的一项调查中，48%的人赞成把该国的国际地位排在第一位，而47%的人表示他们赞成政府把重点放在为个体的富裕创造条件上。
Almost a decade ago, there were indications that this dilemma was close to being resolved in favor of economic progress and peaceful nation-building. According to a poll conducted in 2005 by Levada, more than 60 percent of respondents said they would prefer to live in a nation with higher living standards, while 36 percent counted national “greatness” as a priority. But that resolve proved temporary.
差不多十年前，有迹象表明，这个难题就要被解开，俄罗斯会优先经济发展，并以和平的方式建设国家。勒瓦达中心2005年进行的一次民意调查显示，60%以上的受访者表示更愿意生活在一个生活水平更高的国家，而36%的人认为国家的“强大”是第一位的。但事实证明，这种局面很短暂。
Back in 2007, Michael Porter, a Harvard business professor, advised the Kremlin on economic matters. He and his team then wrote in an analysis of Russian competitiveness that differences of opinion within the government “go beyond the usual policy disagreements that are present in many governments” and “strike to the heart of the goals of the nation itself.”
回到2007年，哈佛大学商科教授迈克尔·波特(Michael Porter)是克里姆林宫的经济事务顾问。当时，他和他的团队在一篇有关俄罗斯的竞争力的分析文章中写道，政府内部的意见分歧“超越了许多政府中都会出现的常见政策分歧”，而且“直击这个国家本身的目标”。
They continued: “Is the goal politics or prosperity for citizens? There is no clear mechanism to resolve these incompatible aspirations. Instead, conflicting signals threaten to cancel each other out and, even worse, create a high level of uncertainty about future policies.”
他们接着写道：“这个目标是政治，还是人民的富裕？没有明确的机制可以解决这些不兼容的抱负。相反，相互矛盾的信号可能会相互抵消，而且更糟糕的是可能会造成有关未来政策的高度不确定性。”
One has to remember that, in a country where the mass media is under strict government control, public opinion may be easily skewed. For several years, especially since street protests erupted in late 2011 and the Kremlin was shocked to discover serious public discontent, the state propaganda machine has been busy inventing or exaggerating threats the Russians are supposedly facing. Mr. Putin embarked on a radical information offensive to divide and frighten his countrymen.
人们必须记住，在一个大众媒体处在政府严格控制下的国家里，民意可能很容易被扭曲。几年来，尤其是2011年年底爆发街头抗议，克里姆林宫惊讶地发现民众严重不满后，官方的宣传机器一直在忙着制造或夸大所谓的俄罗斯人面临的威胁。普京展开了激进的信息攻势，旨在分化和吓阻他的同胞。
The current streak of anti-Ukrainian and anti-Western propaganda — fraught with menacing imagery of Ukrainian fascists and their American puppeteers — is only a recent chapter in a larger PR-strategy. Past Kremlin agitprop has included dire warnings of vague conspiracies to overthrow the government, attacks on artists supposedly seeking to humiliate the Russian church, and warnings that homosexuals and a “pedophile lobby” are using the Internet to undermine the traditional family and Russian society.
目前这波反乌克兰和反西方宣传攻势中，贯穿着乌克兰的法西斯主义者，及其美国操纵者的丑恶形象——但它只是一项更庞大的公关战略中最新的章节。在以往的鼓动宣传中，俄罗斯政府就曾发出耸人听闻的警告，含糊其辞地说有人阴谋推翻政府；也曾攻击那些被指试图侮辱俄罗斯教会的艺术家；还曾警告说，同性恋群体以及一个“恋童癖游说团体”，正在利用互联网破坏传统意义上的家庭，甚至俄罗斯的社会。
These threats, fomented by the state-controlled media, are an excuse to increase the security budget, push anti-gay legislation and laws against “blasphemy,” and establish control over the Internet.
这些威胁被国家控制的媒体大肆渲染，成为了俄罗斯政府的借口，从而提高安全预算、推动反同性恋立法、用法律禁止“亵渎宗教”，并加强对互联网实施管控。
The Kremlin’s current propaganda campaign, focused on the “Ukrainian threat,” has been paraded as a justification for military activity along that country’s borders, for possible covert use of force inside Ukraine and for an all-out information war against the West.
克里姆林宫目前的宣传运动以“乌克兰威胁”为核心，如此大张旗鼓是为了提供一个借口，好在俄乌边境开展军事活动、在乌克兰境内进行可能的秘密行动，并针对西方发动全面的信息战。
Given the intensity of the media blitz, it’s a sign of relative sanity that only half of Russians are choosing sovereign and military greatness over well-being.
考虑这次媒体攻势的激烈程度，只有一半俄罗斯人选择了主权和军事力量的强大，而没有选择民众的福祉，这表明了俄罗斯人相对而言是清醒的。
“Despite all the propaganda, half of the country is resisting the imperialist temptation,” says Vladimir Magun, a sociologist with the Russian Academy of Sciences.
俄罗斯科学院(Russian Academy of Sciences)的社会学家弗拉基米尔·马贡(Vladimir Magun)说，“尽管宣传攻势很强，这个国家一半的人仍然抵制了帝国主义的诱惑。”
Mr. Putin’s annexation of Crimea appears to be overwhelmingly popular, but that is because the true cost is being hidden. The Russian public has readily bought the propaganda message that it received Crimea as a free gift, says Mr. Magun, but it’s like shopping in a store with no price tags. A disappointment awaits us at the exit: Stores that don’t display price tags are usually very expensive.
普京吞并克里米亚的做法似乎深得人心，但这是因为其真实的成本受到了隐瞒。马贡说，俄罗斯公众对面前的宣传说辞欣然买账，相信克里米亚对俄罗斯来说是一件免费的礼物，但这就像是在没有价签的商店购物一样。走到门口时，我们恐怕会大失所望：没有明码标价的商店通常非常昂贵。
As a result of Mr. Putin’s adventure, Russians can expect higher borrowing costs and a decrease in the value of the ruble, and along with that, a decrease in the value of their savings. Mr. Putin is risking a severe economic downturn and even a regional war.
由于普京的冒险活动，俄罗斯人的借贷成本会提高、卢布将贬值，此外存款也会缩水。普京的行为可能会引发严重的经济下滑，甚至是一场局部战争。
The president must understand that he won’t be able to avoid economic realities: We can’t race ahead without fundamental improvements in Russia’s global competitiveness. The economy is in recession, and though the effects have not yet trickled down to most Russians, tougher economic times lie ahead. That will bring a day of reckoning.
普京必须明白，他无法摆脱俄罗斯经济的现实：如果俄罗斯的全球竞争力没有从根本上得到改善，我们就无法在竞争中领先。俄罗斯经济正在衰退，尽管影响尚未波及大多数俄罗斯民众，但是更加严峻的经济形势还在后面。我们迟早要面对这些后果。
Mr. Putin will argue that the West is punishing Russia for its international ambitions and that we, the Russian people, will have to persevere.
普京将会辩白，俄罗斯因为在国际舞台上的雄心，而受到了西方的惩罚，我们俄罗斯人必须锲而不舍。
This is the type of social contract the Soviet government used to impose on its citizens: The enemy is at the gate, and we all have to hunker down. Mr. Putin is bringing this siege mentality back because he knows very well how to work it to his advantage.
这就是苏联政府当初强加给公民的那种社会契约：敌人就在门外，我们必须都蹲下。普京之所以重新渲染这种受到围困的心态，是因为他非常清楚，如何以此为自己的利益服务。