SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s biggest cash cow, the iPhone, is gaining weight.
旧金山——苹果公司(Apple)最大的摇钱树iPhone发挥出了越来越大的能量。
Sales of iPhones, including the new, big-screen iPhone 6 models released last month, helped carry Apple to a record-breaking quarter and offset slowing sales of one of Apple’s other major products, the iPad, the company announced Monday. Apple sold 39 million iPhones in the quarter that ended Sept. 27, a significant bump from the 33.8 million it sold in the same period last year.
公司周一宣布，iPhone的销量，其中包括上个月发布的两款大屏iPhone 6，帮助苹果取得了破纪录的季度数据，并冲抵了另一个主要产品iPad的销售放缓所带来的负面影响。在9月27日结束的一个季度里，苹果共售出了3900万台iPhone，与去年同期3380万台的销量相比，有了显著提升。
Apple appears to be gorging on consumer demand for its smartphone. The company’s $8.2 billion in profit for its fiscal fourth quarter was 13.3 percent higher than the same quarter a year ago. Revenue over the quarter was $42.1 billion, up from $37.5 billion in the same period last year.
消费者对iPhone的需求似乎让苹果赚得盆满钵满。公司第四财季的利润为82亿美元（约合500亿元人民币），同比增长了13.3%。该季度的营收则从去年同期的375亿美元涨至421亿美元。
“Demand for the new iPhones has been staggering,” said Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, about the release of the new iPhones on a financial earnings call with investors. He added: “I’ve never felt so great after a launch before.”
“对新款iPhone的需求令人难以置信，”在与投资者的财报会议上提到新款iPhone的发布时，苹果首席执行官蒂姆·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)说。他还表示：“以前推出新品时，我的感觉都没这么好。”
But impolite as it may be to point out in the middle of such exuberant returns, those numbers — while enviable for most companies — do pose some risk for Apple, which gets about 70 percent of its profits from the iPhone, said Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein research.
桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的金融分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)表示，虽然在收益如此丰厚的时候提出一些异议显得有些不礼貌，但这些让多数公司感到艳羡的数据也给苹果带来了一定的风险。苹果70%的利润来自iPhone。
As with any company increasingly reliant on a single product, should development of that product falter or if competition from companies like Samsung gets even tougher, Apple would be vulnerable.
对于任何一家越来越依赖单一产品的企业而言，如果这个产品表现不佳，抑或是竞争对手——比如三星——变得更强大，苹果就会不堪一击。
“Increasingly Apple is the iPhone story,” said Mr. Sacconaghi.
萨克纳吉说，“苹果越来越像是只在依靠iPhone。”
Apple shares were up about 1.5 percent to $101.25 in after-hours trading Monday evening.
在周一晚间的盘后交易中，苹果股价上扬了大约1.5%，涨至101.25美元。
iPhone sales have steadily grown even though overall sales of smartphones are slowing in developed markets like the United States and parts of Europe. But Apple has aggressively fought that trend. Last year, it for the first time released two new iPhone models instead of just one. Last month, Apple again released two new iPhones, this time with bigger screens.
虽然在美国和欧洲部分地区等发达市场，智能手机的整体销售在放缓，但iPhone的销售额却在稳步增长。不过，苹果在强势出击，应对这种趋势。去年，苹果首次同时推出两款新iPhone，而不是只推出一款。上个月，苹果再次推出两款新机，并带有更大的屏幕。
The larger iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus smartphones got a strong reaction early. In the first weekend that the new iPhones went on sale in September, Apple sold 10 million of the devices, up from the nine million new iPhones sold last year on their opening weekend.
大屏iPhone 6和iPhone 6 Plus很快就激起了热烈反响。在9月上市的第一个周末，就卖出了1000万台，而去年新款iPhone在上市第一个周末的销量则为900万台。
On top of that, Apple has teamed up with phone carriers in important markets, particularly China.
另外，苹果还与重要市场的移动电话运营商展开了合作，尤其是在中国。
Apple’s quarterly revenue beat Wall Street expectations of $39.9 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters. Apple’s $1.42 per share profit also exceed analyst expectations for $1.31 a share. For Apple’s full fiscal year of 2014, profit was $39.5 billion on revenue of $182.8 billion.
根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)分析师的调查，苹果的季度收益超过了华尔街预期的399亿美元。苹果1.42美元的每股收益也高于分析师预计的1.31美元。对于苹果的整个2014财年，公司营收为1828亿美元，利润为395亿美元。
Now for the bad news: The company on Monday said it sold 12.3 million iPads over the quarter, down from 14 million in the same quarter last year. The company’s iPad sales were down in the previous quarter, too.
但坏消息是：苹果周一通报，整个季度售出了1230万台iPad，而去年同期的销量则为1400万台。公司在前一季度的iPad销量也出现了下滑。
J.P. Gownder, a technology analyst for Forrester Research, said that it appeared tablet makers had not established a steady pattern for how often people upgrade to new tablets. He added that the faster and thinner iPad Air 2, which was announced last week, could give incentive for professional customers to buy a tablet, but an iPad with an even bigger screen would have driven more new demand.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的科技分析师J·P·高恩德(J. P. Gownder)称，平板电脑生产商似乎还没为人们升级到新平板的频率确立一个稳定的模式。他接着说，上周发布的更快速、更轻薄的iPad Air 2可能会刺激专业消费者购买平板电脑，但如果iPad的屏幕更大一些，或许早已带出了更多新需求。
Apple also said it sold 5.5 million Macs over the quarter, a major improvement from the 4.6 million it sold in the same period last year. But the Mac is still a small fry compared to the iPhone.
苹果还表示，这一季度售出了550万台Mac电脑。与去年同期的460万台相比，增幅明显。但相比于iPhone，Mac仍是无关大局。
On the earnings call, Mr. Cook said that Apple continues to be very bullish about the iPad’s prospects. He noted that over four years, Apple has sold about 230 million iPads, which is double the number of iPhones it sold over the first four years.
在财报电话会议上，库克称苹果依然很看好iPad的前景。他指出，四年来，苹果已经售出了大约2.3亿台iPad，是iPhone头四年销量的两倍。
He added that sales of some of Apple’s other products may be eating into iPad sales, and that was not a concern.
他接着表示，苹果的其他一些产品可能会侵蚀iPad的销量，但并不值得担心。
“I’m sure some people looked at a Mac and an iPad and decided on the Mac,” Mr. Cook said, “and I’m fine with that, by the way.”
“我相信，有些人看到Mac和iPad后，决定买Mac。顺便提一句，这对我来说没问题。”
Apple executives are bullish about the upcoming holiday quarter. Apple told investors that it expects to make between $63.5 billion and $66.5 billion of revenue for its fiscal first quarter next year. That compares to $57.6 billion in revenue in the same quarter one year ago.
苹果的高管很看好即将到来的假日季。苹果告诉投资者，公司预计明年第一个财季的收入在635亿美元至665亿美元之间。相比之下，今年同期的数据则为576亿美元。
The question remains if a brand-new product — the Apple Watch due for release early next year — could one day become a star that rivals the iPhone in terms of sales and profit.
一直萦绕在苹果头上的问题是，会不会有一款全新的产品——比如定于明年初发售的Apple Watch——在某一天成为明星，在销售额和利润上堪比iPhone？
Notably, Apple said on the call that in its future financial reports, the company would include sales numbers for the watch in the “Other” category, along with the Apple TV and iPods — products that have been less successful. That made analysts wonder if Apple had low expectations for the Watch.
值得注意的是，苹果在电话会议上表示，在未来的财报中，公司将把Apple Watch的销售数据纳入“其他”那一类，而同属这一类别的还有不那么成功的Apple TV和iPod。这使得分析师们怀疑，苹果是否对这款产品的期望值较低。