WASHINGTON — There are few relationships between President Barack Obama and another world leader more unlikely than the one he has with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
华盛顿——在美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)与另一个世界大国领导人的关系当中，没有几个比他与印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)之间的纽带更加令人不可思议。
The two have a public warmth — or “chemistry,” as the Indian news media like to describe it — and that is likely to be on display Tuesday when Modi visits the White House for the second time in two years. It will be the seventh time the two leaders will have met.
当莫迪本周二两年之内第二次造访白宫之时，两人之间那种表面上的友善姿态——印度新闻媒体青睐的措辞是“化学反应”——很可能会显露出来。这将是两位领导人第七次碰面。
There are compelling reasons the leaders of the world’s largest democracies would find common cause. The United States is encouraging the rise of India as a giant Asian partner to balance China, and India is trying to accelerate its economy with an injection of investment from U.S. companies.
有充分的理由支持世界两大民主国家的领导人找到共同点。美国在鼓励印度崛起为自己在亚洲的重量级伙伴，以制衡中国，而印度正试图用美国企业注入投资的方式来加快其经济发展。
“It is true that Obama and I have a special friendship, a special wavelength,” Modi said last month in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. Ben Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser for strategic communication, said Saturday that the two leaders “have each invested in developing a close relationship.”
“奥巴马与我之间的确有着特殊的友情、特殊的波长，”莫迪上月接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)采访时表示。负责战略通讯联络的国家安全副顾问本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)上周六称，两位领导人“均为发展密切关系有所投入”。
It is worth recounting just how unlikely such a friendship is.
值得探讨一下的是，这样的友谊到底有多么不可思议。
The nation’s first black president, Obama has made the protection of minorities a central pillar of his life. And he has argued that criticism and dissent are core tenets of democracy.
身为美国首任黑人总统，奥巴马将保护少数族群作为自己一生的一个中心支柱。他还认为，批评与异见是民主的核心信条。
Modi, by contrast, spent much of his life rising through the ranks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a right-wing paramilitary organization that campaigns forcefully for India’s Hindu majority. Modi was in charge of the state of Gujarat when rioting in 2002 cost the lives of more than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims. Just last week, 24 people were convicted of massacring Muslims during the riots, and pending cases are attempting to prove that Modi, who has escaped judicial censure, was part of a high-level conspiracy to encourage the killings.
相形之下，莫迪的大部分经历是在民族志工组织(Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)中步步晋升。这是一个右翼准军事团体，大力为在印度社会中占主导地位的印度教徒争取利益。莫迪执掌古吉拉特邦期间，那里于2002年发生骚乱，导致上千人死亡，其中大部分是穆斯林。就在上周，24人因在那场骚乱中屠杀穆斯林而被定罪。还有一些悬而未决的案件正试图证明，一直逃脱了司法惩罚的莫迪实际上参与了鼓励那场杀戮的高层共谋。
Generally poorer and less educated than India’s Hindus, Muslims are about 14 percent of the population, about the same proportion as blacks in the United States. In India, Modi’s reputation among Muslims could broadly be compared to that of a Southern segregationist from the 1950s.
印度的穆斯林普遍比印度教徒贫困，受教育程度更低。他们占到印度总人口的14%左右，与美国人口中的黑人比例相当。在印度国内，莫迪在穆斯林当中的名声堪比美国50年代南方的种族隔离分子。
Perhaps just as troubling, Modi’s government has increasingly used the country’s broad and vague laws restricting free speech to stifle dissent, according to a recent report by Human Rights Watch. Other laws have been used to intimidate and even shut down nongovernmental organizations, such as Greenpeace.
也许同样令人不安的是，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)最近的一份报告称，莫迪政府已经加大力度，利用该国宽泛而模糊的法律来限制言论自由，压制异见者。他们还利用其他法律来恐吓、甚至查封非政府组织，比如绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)。
Neither Obama nor Modi is given to displaying affection. Both avoid the socializing common in their capitals. And while Obama is a doting father and dutiful husband who maintains close bonds with his childhood friends, Modi abandoned his arranged marriage decades ago and has no children or any public friendships.
奥巴马和莫迪都不喜欢表露感情，都不爱参加首都常见的社交活动。奥巴马是一个疼爱孩子的父亲，尽职尽责的丈夫，与孩提时的朋友维持着密切关系，而莫迪却在数十年前摆脱了自己的包办婚姻，不仅没有孩子，也没有任何公开的朋友。
Some political analysts have expressed deep skepticism that the two leaders have any real fondness for each other.
一些政治分析人士深表怀疑，认为奥巴马和莫迪并非真的对彼此有好感。
Modi is part of a class of “populist, electable, narcissistic right-wing autocrats whose appeal is that they pander to majoritarian anger,” said Kanti Prasad Bajpai, a professor of Asian studies at the National University of Singapore.
莫迪属于“民粹主义的、有参选资历的、自恋的右翼独裁者，这种人的吸引力在于他们能迎合多数人的愤怒情绪，”新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)的亚洲研究教授坎提·普拉萨德·巴杰帕伊(Kanti Prasad Bajpai)说。
“Obama is the opposite of that, so it is hard to see how close they can be,” Bajpai said.
“跟奥巴马完全是相反的，所以很难想象他们关系能好到哪里去，”巴杰帕伊说。
Others see similarities that extend beyond political beliefs.
其他人则看到了两人之间超越政治信仰的相似之处。
Both men rose from modest circumstances, had difficult relationships with their fathers and were widely considered transformational figures when elected. (Modi’s humble origins, largely corruption-free government and intense focus on winning foreign investment are sharp breaks from his predecessor.) And parts of Modi’s political operation, in particular its effective use of social media, were based on Obama’s model.
两人都出生于草根阶层，与父亲关系不好，在参选的时候，都被普遍认为是变革性的人物。（莫迪卑微的出身，基本廉洁的政府，以及把重心极大地放在争取外国投资上，与他的前任迥然不同。）莫迪的一些政治钻营方法，特别是有效地使用社交媒体，是借鉴了奥巴马的模式。
Ashley Tellis, a senior associate with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said both men “are remarkably warm and have a personal graciousness about them that is very evident in personal encounters.”
卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)高级研究员阿什利·泰利斯(Ashley Tellis)说，两人“都是非常温和的人，在私下交往时，有一种很明显的亲切感。”
Raymond Vickery, a former U.S. assistant secretary of commerce who has met Modi, said both had grown up as outsiders and valued frankness.
见过莫迪的美国前助理国务卿雷蒙德·维克里(Raymond Vickery)说，两人都是作为“局外人”成长起来的，都很重视坦率。
“Modi is a really down-to-earth guy who tries to answer your questions and doesn’t just go to talking points,” Vickery said.
“莫迪是一个非常脚踏实地的人，他会试图回答你的问题，而不只是去讲自己的论点，”维克里说。
Obama made the first significant gesture in the relationship when, during Modi’s first official visit to Washington in 2014, the president left his White House staff behind to give a personal 15-minute tour of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial.
2014年莫迪首次正式访问华盛顿期间，奥巴马第一次在这段关系中做出了一个重大姿态，他没有带白宫工作人员，亲自带领莫迪在马丁·路德·金纪念馆参观了15分钟。
Modi responded by inviting Obama to be his guest at the annual Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi in January 2015. When Obama arrived, Modi broke with protocol to greet the president at the airport with a hug. And at a later appearance, Modi referred to the president as Barack and thanked him for his “deep personal commitment” to their friendship. In a toast at a state dinner, Obama called Modi “my partner and friend.”
莫迪则邀请奥巴马参加2015年1月在新德里举行的一年一度的共和国日(Republic Day)庆祝活动，他打破常规礼仪，到机场迎接奥巴马时给了他一个拥抱。稍后，莫迪对奥巴马以“贝拉克”相称，并感谢他对他们友谊的“深切投入”。在国宴上敬酒时，奥巴马称莫迪为“我的搭档和朋友。”
“The hours they’ve spent together,” Rhodes said Saturday, “have allowed them to have a good understanding of their respective worldviews and domestic circumstances, and made it possible to deepen defense ties, advance our civil nuclear cooperation and achieve a breakthrough on climate change.”
“他们一起度过的那些时光，”罗兹上周六说，“让他们对各自的世界观和国内情况有了很好的了解，使得两国加深防务关系，增进民用核合作，实现气候变化上突破成为了可能。”
He added, “It’s also an indication of how important President Obama thinks our relationship is with India, as the world’s largest democracy and an increasingly important partner.”
他还表示，“这也显示了奥巴马总统对美印关系有多么重视。印度是世界上最大的民主国家，也是一个日益重要的合作伙伴。”
On Tuesday, White House officials said, the two leaders are expected to discuss climate change and clean energy partnerships, security cooperation, and economic growth. The officials said the leaders might announce a new defense logistics agreement, further progress on India’s efforts to phase out ozone-depleting hydrofluorocarbons and perhaps a deal for Westinghouse Electric Corp. to build nuclear power plants in India in a long-delayed fulfillment of a pact first struck in 2006.
白宫官员表示，奥巴马和莫迪周二将讨论气候变化和清洁能源合作伙伴关系、安全合作以及经济增长问题。官员们说，他们可能会宣布新的国防后勤协议，印度逐步淘汰破坏臭氧的氢氟碳化物的更多成果，也许还有西屋电气公司在印度建造核电站的交易；该交易和最初在2006年达成的一项协定有关，但协定迟迟没有履行。
A shared interest in clean power and climate change is central to their personal bond, some analysts said.
有分析人士表示，两人对清洁能源和气候变化都很感兴趣，这对他们的私交非常重要。
“These two guys get very little political traction at home for being climate champions, but they are anyway, and I think they respect each other for that,” said Andrew Light, a former senior adviser to the U.S. special envoy on climate change.
“两人作为气候变化拥护者，在本国都没有得到多少认同，但他们仍在努力，我认为他们在这个方面惺惺相惜，”前美国气候变化特使高级顾问安德鲁·莱特(Andrew Light)说。
Tavleen Singh, an Indian commentator and admirer of Modi, said the prime minister’s high-profile sanitation campaign and his efforts to improve the status of women would also endear him to Obama. Still, she said she doubted the two men were truly affectionate.
塔林·辛格(Tavleen Singh)是一位印度评论家，很崇拜莫迪，她说莫迪开展声势浩大的卫生运动，努力提高女性地位，这也会让他获得奥巴马的喜爱。不过她认为两人之前缺乏真正的深厚情谊。
Zia Haq, an assistant editor at the Hindustan Times in India, was also skeptical.
齐亚·哈克(Zia Haq)是印度报纸《印度斯坦时报》(Hindustan Times)的助理编辑，他也对此持怀疑态度。