If his diaries are any indication, Andy Warhol had little affection for Richard Avedon. In an entry from December 1976, Warhol recalled running into a woman they both knew at a dinner party in New York.
安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)的日记也许表明，他不喜欢理查德·埃夫登(Richard Avedon)。在1976年12月的一篇日记中，沃霍尔回忆起在纽约的一次晚宴派对上，他碰见一个他和埃夫登都认识的女人。
“We talked about how horrible Avedon is,” Warhol wrote. “She said he gets what he wants out of a person and then drops them. I agreed and then everybody screamed at me that I do the same thing.”
“我们谈起埃夫登多么可恶，”沃霍尔写道，“她说这个人只要一从别人那里得到自己想要的，就对对方置之不理。我对她的话表示赞同，然后每个人都对我嚷嚷，说我也是这样的。”
Whatever their animosities, Avedon and Warhol are being posthumously paired in an exhibition at the Gagosian Gallery here. The show, which runs through April 23, presents 33 Warhol silk-screens and 22 Avedon works (including a single series of 69 portraits) dating from the 1950s to the 1990s.
不管埃夫登和沃霍尔之间有多少敌意，两人都已去世，而今伦敦加戈西安画廊(Gagosian Gallery)正在举办一场关于他们两人的展览。这场展览持续到4月23日，展示沃霍尔的33幅丝网印画和埃夫登的22件作品（其中包括一个69幅肖像的系列作品），这些作品的创作时间是20世纪50年代至90年代。
At first glance, they form an awkward tandem, as towering figures in separate artistic disciplines.
乍看上去，把他俩放到一起有点别扭，就像把不同艺术门类里的两个巨人放到了一起。
But they had similar backgrounds and early career trajectories. Born five years apart in the 1920s to East European immigrant families, they got their starts in the New York fashion world, both working for Bonwit Teller and Harper’s Bazaar. Although their paths then diverged — Avedon shifting from fashion photography to portraiture and Warhol becoming a painter and filmmaker and a Pop Art stalwart — they moved in the same New York circles, often portraying the same people.
但是这二人的背景和早期事业轨迹很相似。他们都是20世纪20年代（前后相差5年）出生在东欧移民家庭，都是在纽约时尚界起步，都曾为邦威特·特勒百货公司(Bonwit Teller)和《Harper’s Bazaar》杂志工作。虽然后来他们走上了不同的道路——埃夫登从时尚摄影转向肖像摄影，而沃霍尔成了画家、电影制作人和波普艺术中坚——但他们都进入相同的纽约艺术圈，经常描绘同一群人。
The Gagosian is illustrating that overlap, eager to present the two men as equals who documented similar themes from different angles, thrusting aside hierarchical distinctions between painting and photography. The exhibition also has a commercial logic: It presents the work of two hugely famous artists, one of whom (Avedon) has the advantage of being relatively affordable.
加戈西安画廊展示他们的这些相似之处，把绘画和摄影的等级区别抛到了一边，热切地把他们描述为两位同等地位的艺术家，从不同角度记录类似主题。从商业角度讲，把他们的作品放到一起展览也算合理：他们都是非常著名的艺术家，其中一位（埃夫登）的优势是作品相对便宜一些。
The majority of the Avedons and a number of the Warhols are for sale, with prices that Gagosian says range from the tens of thousands to the millions of dollars.
展出的埃夫登的大部分作品和沃霍尔的一些作品可供出售，加戈西安画廊称售价从数万美元至数百万美元不等。
The idea for a combined exhibition came up in 2011 after the Avedon Foundation — a nonprofit organization that owns Avedon’s photographs, negatives and archives and raises money through print sales — made the Gagosian its exclusive representative. The gallery thought of twinning Avedon with an artist “to change people’s ideas about photography and the standing of photography in the world,” said Kara Vander Weg, a director of the Gagosian in New York.
办联合展的想法是2011年埃夫登基金会(Avedon Foundation)选择加戈西安画廊作为独家代理之后产生的。埃夫登基金会是一个非盈利组织，拥有埃夫登的照片、底片和档案，通过销售印刷作品筹资。纽约加戈西安画廊的主管卡拉·范德·韦格(Kara Vander Weg)说，该画廊想把埃夫登与一位艺术家联系起来，“改变人们对摄影的看法以及摄影在世界上的地位”。
Mark Francis, a Gagosian director in London who previously steered the Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, described both artists as “recording angels of their period.”
伦敦加戈西安画廊的主管马克·弗朗西斯(Mark Francis)曾执掌匹兹堡的沃霍尔博物馆(Warhol Museum)。他说这两位艺术家是“记录他们那个时代的天使”。
“It’s impossible to understand the visual world of today without either one of them,” Mr. Francis said. “So I don’t think we’re trying to force a relation between them, either historically or iconographically.”
弗朗西斯说：“没有他们中的任何一位，我们都无法理解如今的视觉世界。所以我觉得，不管从历史角度还是意象角度，我们都不是强行把他们联系在一起。”
The first room of the exhibition plays on the theme of power. On the main wall is Avedon’s “The Family” from 1976, a group of 69 portraits of American establishment figures including President Gerald Ford, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and his mother Rose Kennedy , and a young Donald Rumsfeld, a briefcase tucked under his arm. Hanging on other walls are Warhol portraits of personalities from the period, including Mao Zedong and the shah of Iran with his wife and sister.
第一个展厅的主题是权力。主墙上是埃夫登从1976年起创作的作品《家庭》(The Family)，共包括69位美国著名人物的肖像，比如总统杰拉尔德·福特(Gerald Ford)、参议员爱德华·M·肯尼迪(Edward M. Kennedy)和他的母亲罗丝·肯尼迪(Rose Kennedy)，以及年轻时的唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)，他胳膊下面夹着公文包。其他墙上挂着沃霍尔描绘的同时期的人物，包括毛泽东、伊朗国王和他的妻子和姐妹。
A radically different family appears in the next room, in Avedon’s sprawling triptych “Andy Warhol and Members of the Factory” (1969). Warhol lurks in the corner of the image, while his disciples, five of them nude, take center stage. He reappears on the wall across — in the famous Avedon portrait of his scarred torso, taken in 1969, a year after he survived an assassination attempt. Other Warhols in the same room depict the artists Jean-Michel Basquiat and Keith Haring and the drag queen Wilhelmina Ross.
隔壁展厅则是完全不同的另一个家庭，包括埃夫登庞大的三联画《安迪·沃霍尔和工厂成员》(Andy Warhol and Members of the Factory, 1969)。沃霍尔隐藏在画面的角落里，他的弟子们占据画面中央，其中五位裸体。对面墙上是埃夫登1969年拍摄的一幅著名照片——沃霍尔伤累累累的躯体。之前一年，沃霍尔在刺杀中逃生。这间展厅里的沃霍尔作品描绘的是艺术家让-米切尔·巴斯奎特(Jean-Michel Basquiat)、基思·哈林(Keith Haring)和变装皇后威廉明娜·罗斯(Wilhelmina Ross)。
Death is evoked in the next gallery. Surrounding Warhol’s “Last Supper” (1986) are silk-screens of a skull and a gun, and a bewigged self-portrait. They are interspersed with Avedon portraits of the authors Samuel Beckett and Truman Capote, of the two killers depicted by Capote in his book “In Cold Blood,” and of a melancholy Marilyn Monroe.
下一个展厅让人想起了死亡。沃霍尔的《最后的晚餐》(Last Supper, 1986)周围悬挂着描绘骷髅头和枪的丝网印画，还有一幅戴假发的自画像。点缀其中的还有埃夫登拍摄的作家塞缪尔·贝克特(Samuel Beckett)和杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)的肖像照、卡波特在《冷血》(In Cold Blood)一书中描绘的两位杀手，以及一幅忧郁的玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)肖像。
The last room is a celebrity potpourri. There are Warhol silk-screens of a mourning Jacqueline Kennedy, of Liza Minnelli, Elvis Presley and Monroe. Avedon is represented by portraits of Mrs. Kennedy in happier times, Audrey Hepburn and a playful Charlie Chaplin.
最后一个展厅是名人集锦，包括沃霍尔创作的很多名人的丝网印画肖像：哀伤的杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)、莉莎·明内利(Liza Minnelli)、埃尔维斯·普雷斯利(Elvis Presley，又名猫王)和梦露。这件展厅里的埃夫登作品包括快乐时期的肯尼迪夫人、奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)和诙谐的查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)。
Donna De Salvo, a deputy director of the Whitney Museum who curated Tate Modern’s 2002 Warhol retrospective, and who is staging one at the Whitney in 2018, described Avedon and Warhol as a “provocative pairing” but a valid one, though she had not yet seen the Gagosian show.
惠特尼博物馆副馆长唐娜·德萨尔沃(Donna De Salvo)2002年曾在泰特现代美术馆(Tate Modern)组织过一场沃霍尔回顾展，目前正在惠特尼博物馆筹划2018年的一场沃霍尔展。她说，把埃夫登和沃霍尔放在一起“会引发争议”，但合乎情理，虽然她还没有观看加戈西安画廊的展览。
“Avedon’s work to me was always on this fine line between fashion and high art, and that’s the line Warhol walked as well,” Ms. De Salvo said. She noted that the two artists did in fact share a medium: “Warhol would be inconceivable without the photographic image. It’s so deeply embedded.”
“在我看来，埃夫登的作品一直游走在时尚和高雅艺术之间，那也是沃霍尔所走的路线，”德萨尔沃说。她指出，这两位艺术家实际上利用了同一种媒介：“没有那些照片，沃霍尔无法创作。他的作品深深植根于摄影。”
She described Avedon as a “giant” of photography who was a worthy exhibition companion for Warhol. In any event, “nobody can diminish Warhol: You can put him with just about anything,” she said. “He becomes a great foil to play off.”
她说，埃夫登是摄影界的“巨人”，配得上和沃霍尔放在一起展览。她说，不管怎样，“无人能贬低沃霍尔：你能把他和几乎任何东西放在一起”，“他会成为极好的衬托”。
In London for the opening was the Avedon Foundation’s executive director, James Martin, who was Avedon’s studio assistant before his death in 2004. He described the photographer as “extremely demanding — a demanding that was absolutely invigorating and horrifying at the same time. You wouldn’t want to mess it up.”
去伦敦参加开幕式的有埃夫登基金会的执行总监詹姆斯·马丁(James Martin)。2004年埃夫登去世之前，马丁是埃夫登工作室的助理。他说，这位摄影师“要求极高，这种高要求无疑既令人振奋也令人恐惧。你可不想把事情搞砸”。
Mr. Martin, who also was Avedon’s darkroom technician, said it sometimes took more than a dozen versions of a print to satisfy him. “This needs to be more dramatic,” Avedon would respond at first, Mr. Martin recalled. When the next version was shown to him, he would say, “Well, maybe you’ve captured the ear. Match the rest of the print with the drama of that ear.”
马丁也是埃夫登的暗室技师。他说，有时照片要洗十几个版本才能最终令埃夫登满意。马丁回忆说，埃夫登一开始会说，“还需要更激动人心。”看到下一个版本时，他会说：“呃，你也许捕捉到了那只耳朵。要让其余部分也同样吸引人。”
Despite the challenges, Mr. Martin said he missed having Avedon around, including for the installation of this show.
马丁说，尽管有这样的挑战，他还是非常怀念埃夫登在身边的日子，甚至希望布置这场展览时他也能在身边。
“There is a burden that I have of no longer having his voice there to steer the ship,” he said. “What I miss is the certainty that he would take into all these decisions that we’re faced with.”
他说：“我再也听不到他掌控大局的声音，这让我很有负担。他面对所有需要做的决定时留露出的那种确定感，正是我所怀念的。”