WASHINGTON — In a fractured decision that revealed deep divisions over what role the judiciary should play in protecting racial and ethnic minorities, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld a Michigan constitutional amendment that bans affirmative action in admissions to the state’s public universities.
华盛顿——一个意见不统一的决定揭示了对于司法系统应在保护少数族裔中发挥怎样的作用，法官们存在深刻的分歧。本周二，最高法院宣布支持密歇根州宪法的一项修正案：在该州公立大学的招生工作中禁止平权行动(affirmative action)。
The 6-to-2 ruling effectively endorsed similar measures in seven other states. It may also encourage more states to enact measures banning the use of race in admissions or to consider race-neutral alternatives to ensure diversity.
这项6票赞成、2票反对的裁决实际上是为其他七个采取类似举措的州提供了认可，而且还可能鼓励更多的州出台措施，禁止大学在招生时考虑申请者的种族。它也鼓励各州采取与种族无关的替代方案来确保学生的多样性。
States that forbid affirmative action in higher education, like Florida and California, as well as Michigan, have seen a significant drop in the enrollment of black and Hispanic students in their most selective colleges and universities.
在佛罗里达、加利福尼亚等禁止在高等教育中实施平权行动的州，最挑剔的学院和大学已经出现了黑人和西班牙裔学生入学率显著下降的现象，和密歇根州一样。
In five separate opinions spanning more than 100 pages, the justices set out starkly conflicting views. The justices in the majority, with varying degrees of vehemence, said that policies affecting minorities that do not involve intentional discrimination should be decided at the ballot box rather than in the courtroom.
法官们针锋相对的观点，展示在总共超过100页的五份独立意见书中。占多数的法官虽然主张的强烈程度不同，但却都认为，影响少数族裔的政策，如果不涉及故意歧视，就应该以投票而不是上法庭的方式决定。
But Justice Sonia Sotomayor, in the longest, most passionate and most significant dissent of her career, said the Constitution required special vigilance in light of the history of slavery, Jim Crow and “recent examples of discriminatory changes to state voting laws.”
但大法官索尼娅·索托马约尔(Sonia Sotomayor)表达了其职业生涯中最长、最富激情、最严重的异议。她说，有鉴于美国的蓄奴历史、吉姆·克罗(Jim Crow)法，以及“州选举法最近发生歧视性变化的例子”，需要针对宪法特别提高警惕。
Her opinion, longer than the four other opinions combined, appeared to reflect her own experiences with affirmative action at Princeton and Yale Law School. “I had been admitted to the Ivy League through a special door,” she wrote in her best-selling memoir, “My Beloved World.” For years, she wrote, “I lived the day-to-day reality of affirmative action.”
索托马约尔的意见书比其他四份加在一起都长，其观点似乎反映了她自己受益于普林斯顿(Princeton)和耶鲁法学院(Yale Law School)平权行动的经历。“我通过一扇特殊的门被常春藤联盟(Ivy League)录取”，索托马约尔在她颇为畅销的回忆录《我至爱的世界》(My Beloved World)中写道。多年以来，“我都是平权行动亲历者。”她写道。
In contrast to Justice Sotomayor’s outraged dissent, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s controlling opinion for three justices took pains to say that the decision was a modest one.
和索托马约尔的愤怒异议相反，代表三名法官写主要意见书的大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)煞费苦心地说，这是个温和的决定。
“This case is not about how the debate about racial preferences should be resolved,” he wrote, in an opinion joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. “It is about who may resolve it. There is no authority in the Constitution of the United States or in this court’s precedents for the judiciary to set aside Michigan laws that commit this policy determination to the voters.”
“这个案子无关于种族优待现象应该如何处理的讨论，”他写道。这份意见书还代表了首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)和大法官小塞缪尔·A·阿利托(Samuel A. Alito Jr.)的意见。“而是关乎于可以由谁去处理它。从美国宪法和本法院的判例来看，司法系统没有驳回密歇根州法律的权力，那些法律让该州选民对这项政策作出决定。”
His announcement of the decision from the bench was businesslike. Signaling deep displeasure, Justice Sotomayor summarized her dissent from the bench — an unusual move that happens perhaps three times a term. She said the initiative put minorities to a burden not faced by other college applicants. Athletes, children of alumni and students from under-represented parts of the state, she said, remained free to try to persuade university officials to give their applications special weight. “The one and only policy a Michigan citizen may not seek through this long-established process,” she wrote, “is a race-sensitive admissions policy.” That difference, she said, violated the Constitution’s equal protection clause.
他在法院宣布这个决定时表现出公事公办的态度。索托马约尔法官则表现了深深的不悦，她在法院总结了自己的异议——这个举动不同寻常，每年大约只会出现三例。她说，这个举措让少数民族背上了其他的入学申请者所没有的负担；运动员、校友的孩子，和本州偏远地区的学生，仍然可以不受约束地尝试说服大学管理者，让自己的申请书获得特别对待。“对于密歇根州公民而言，在这个历史悠久的过程中，唯一一个不能使用的策略，”她写道，“就是与种族因素相关的策略。”这种差别，她说，违反了宪法的平等保护条款。
“The Constitution does not protect racial minorities from political defeat,” she wrote. “But neither does it give the majority free rein to erect selective barriers against racial minorities.” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg joined the dissent.
“宪法不会保护少数族裔免于遭受政治上的失败，”她写道。“但是，它也没有赋予多数派自由，让他们竖起选择性的壁垒来阻拦少数族裔。”同样持异议的还有大法官鲁思·巴德·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)。
In earlier cases, the court has said that race-conscious selection can be constitutionally permissible in states that wish to use them. In a concurrence, Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, said those decisions were wrong, and added that the question in Tuesday’s case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, No. 12-682, was laughably easy.
在以前的案例中，最高法院曾表示，宪法允许各州在录取过程中考虑种族因素。在次要意见书中，大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)和大法官克拉伦斯·托马斯(Clarence Thomas)说这些决定是错误的，并声称在本周二的这起“舒特控告捍卫平权行动联盟”(Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action)第12-682号案子中，问题简单得可笑。
He said the courts should resist involving judges “in the dirty business of dividing the nation into racial blocs.”
他说，法院应拒绝让法官卷入“把国家分裂成种族阵营的肮脏事物”中。
“That task is as difficult as it is unappealing,” Justice Scalia said, giving an example: “Does a half-Latin, half-American Indian have Latino interests, American-Indian interests, both, half of both?”
“此事既困难又乏味，”斯卡利亚法官举了个例子：“一个半拉丁裔、半美洲印第安裔的人是该拥有拉丁裔的权益、美洲印第安裔的权益，两者都有，还是各一半呢？”
The most surprising opinion came from Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who abandoned his usual liberal allies to vote with the majority, although he did not adopt their reasoning. The Constitution, he said, permits but does not require states to use race-conscious admissions for educational diversity.
最令人惊讶的意见来自于大法官史蒂芬·G·布雷耶(Stephen G. Breyer)，他抛弃了他通常支持的自由派盟友，投了赞成票，虽然他并没有采纳他们的理由。他说，宪法允许但没有要求各州在录取过程中考虑种族因素来实现教育的多样性。