NEW YORK — Looking out over the quadrangle before him as students dashed from one class to the next, James Muyskens was feeling proud one recent afternoon, and why not?
纽约——最近某一天的下午，詹姆斯·梅斯肯斯(James Muyskens)看着窗外的方型庭院，学生们从一个教室匆匆走向另一个教室，心里感到很自豪。他怎么会不自豪呢？
The college he had led for the past 11 years had just been awarded second place in a new ranking of American higher education — ahead of flagship state universities, ahead of elite liberal arts colleges, even ahead of all eight Ivy League universities.
他担任了11年院长的这所学校，刚刚在一个新的美国高等院校排名中荣登第二位，领先于一流州立大学、精英文理学院，甚至超过了所有八所常春藤(Ivy League)盟校。
The college is Queens College, a part of the City University of New York with an annual tuition of $5,730, and a view of the Long Island Expressway.
这所学院就是皇后学院(Queens College)，隶属于纽约城市大学(City University of New York)，每年学费5730美元（约合人民币34900元），还可以看到长岛高速公路的风景。
Catering to working-class students, more than half of whom were born in other countries, Queens does not typically find itself at the top of national rankings. Then again, this was not a typical ranking. It was a list of colleges that offer the “best bang for the buck.”
皇后学院面向的是工薪阶层学生，超过一半的学生都出生在其他国家，该校通常不会在全国排名中名列前茅。但话又说回来，这也不是一个普通的排名。它是“最物有所值”大学排名。
“Elation,” said Dr. Muyskens, recalling his delight when he learned of the honor. “Thrilled!”
“兴高采烈，”梅斯肯斯博士回忆起自己听到这个消息时的喜悦之情，“感觉很爽！”
Purists might regard such bottom-line calculations as an insult to the intellectual, social and civic value of education. But dollars-and-cents tabulations like that one (which was compiled by Washington Monthly), are the fastest-growing sector of the college rankings industry, with ever more analyses vying for the attention of high school students and their parents who are anxious about finances.
纯粹主义者可能会认为，这种效益计算是在侮辱教育在智识、社会及公民素养方面的价值。但是计算费用投入的排名（上面这个是《华盛顿月刊》[Washington Monthly]发布的排名）是大学排名界里增长最快的类型，目前出现了越来越多的这类分析，提供给担心大学费用负担的高中学生和他们的家长。
President Obama sharply raised the ante in August with a plan to rate colleges on their value and affordability and to tie those ratings to the $150 billion in financial aid that the federal government supplies each year. Should Mr. Obama’s plan come to pass, value would not just be a selling point for colleges, it would be a matter of life and death.
今年8月，奥巴马大大提高了人们对这种排名的关注。他提出了一项计划，根据价值和费用来给高等院校评级，并把这些评级跟联邦政府每年提供的1500亿美元财政支持挂钩。如果奥巴马的计划得到通过，那么对于高等院校来说，物有所值就不再仅仅是一个卖点，而是会变成生死攸关的问题。
But there is no agreement on how to measure the value of a college, and there is no agreement, or anything even close, on what value is in the first place.
但是，对于如何衡量一所大学的价值，人们的看法并不一致。至于应该把何种价值摆在首位，人们也没有共识，甚至任何接近于共识的看法也没有。
“It’s a quest for the holy grail,” said Judith Scott-Clayton, a professor of economics and education at Columbia University’s Teachers College. “It sounds good, it sounds like something we’d love to know, to be able to rank the value of these institutions, but when it comes down to practicalities, it’s very, very difficult.”
哥伦比亚大学教育学院(Columbia University’s Teachers College)的经济学和教育学教授朱迪思·斯科特-克莱顿(Judith Scott-Clayton)说，“这是在追寻圣杯。给学校的价值排名听上去很不错，像是我们愿意了解的东西，但是实际操作起来非常、非常困难。”
U.S. News and World Report, whose academic rankings have long been derided — and obsessively followed — by college presidents, now publishes “best value” lists as well.
《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News and World Report)的学术排名长期受到大学校长们的嘲笑，但也会受到他们痴迷地关注，现在它也开始发布“最具价值”排名了。
Princeton Review, which has advised decades of prospective students on the best party schools, more recently began listing the best value schools, too.
几十年来，《普林斯顿评论》(Princeton Review)一直在向未来的大学生们提供“最佳派对院校”的建议，最近它也开始发布最具价值院校的排名了。
Forbes Magazine got in the is-it-worth-the-money game too, as did, among others, The Wall Street Journal, The Alumni Factor, Kiplinger’s Personal Finance and Payscale, a company that gathers data about the job market.
《福布斯》杂志(Forbes Magazine)也加入了这个行列。此外，发布这种排名还有《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)、《校友因素》(The Alumni Factor)、《吉普林个人理财》(Kiplinger’s Personal Finance)，以及一家收集就业市场数据的公司PayScale。
Some of these analyses approach value as largely a function of cost: How much is tuition? What subsidies are available? Others define it as return on investment: How much do graduates earn? Some factor in student satisfaction or academic ranking or graduation rates or economic diversity, all in varying quantities.
有些排名分析主要是把价值理解为成本的一个函数：学费是多少？可以获得那些补助？一些则将其定义为投资回报：毕业生的收入是多少？有些排名会考虑学生满意度，或者学术排名，或者毕业率，或者学生经济水平的多样性，这些因素的比重各不相同。
These widely divergent definitions produce wildly divergent results. Queens College did splendidly in a list that emphasizes social mobility and civic virtue. Another New York City public college, Baruch, took third place; No. 1 was Amherst.
大相径庭的计算方式，导致了差异很大的结果。在强调社会流动性和公民素养的这份排名中，皇后学院排名第二。另一所纽约市的公立院校巴鲁克学院(Baruch)排在第三。居首位的则是阿默斯特学院(Amherst)。
But on a ranking that emphasizes alumni salaries, like Payscale’s list of Colleges Worth Your Investment, Queens comes in 341st. The top spot there goes to Harvey Mudd College, in Claremont, Calif., which has a much higher tuition, but whose graduates disproportionately enter lucrative fields like science and engineering. The top tier of U.S. News’s list somehow features Harvard, Princeton, Williams — and Soka University of America, a tiny Buddhist college in Southern California that admitted its first undergraduates in 2001.
但在强调毕业生薪金的排名中，比如PayScale的“值得你投资的高校”排名，皇后学院排在了第341。排在首位的是加利福尼亚州克莱蒙特的哈维姆德学院(Harvey Mudd College)，它的学费要高很多，但有比例很大的毕业生进入薪资优渥的领域，比如科学和工程。《美国新闻与世界报道》的排名中有哈佛大学(Harvard)、普林斯顿大学(Princeton)、威廉姆斯学院(Williams)——还有美国创价大学(Soka University of America)，这是一所位于南加州的小型佛教院校，在2001年录取了第一批本科生。
Forbes’s most recent list starts out with the five national service academies, which charge no tuition. And when the Education Trust, an advocacy group, set out to list the colleges that do right by low-income students, it found only five entries, including Queens.
在《福布斯》的最新排名中，列前五名的学校都是不收学费的军校。而倡导团体教育信托(Education Trust)在罗列适合低收入家庭学生的院校时，结果只找出了五所，其中就包括皇后学院。
As for the federal government, no one yet knows how it will perform its evaluation. Arne Duncan, the education secretary, has said that his goal is a ratings system, not a single first-place-to-last-place ranking, and that the ratings will compare only schools that are similar in their mission, their student population and so on. Harvard and Yale, that is; not Harvard and Soka University of America.
至于联邦政府，没人知道它会采取何种评估方式。教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)说，他的目标是建立一个评价体系，不是得出一个从头到尾的具体排名，而且只会比较学校使命和学生构成等方面相似的院校。也就是说，在哈佛和耶鲁之间做比较，而不是在哈佛和创价大学之间做比较。
But Carolyn Hoxby, a Stanford professor and an author of an influential study about the failures of college as an engine for social mobility, said the effort is doomed to fail.
但是，斯坦福大学(Stanford University)教授卡罗琳·霍克斯比(Carolyn Hoxby)说，这种举措注定会失败。霍克斯比还是一项颇有影响力的研究的作者，研究的课题是大学未能承担起推动社会流动的角色。
“I do not believe the federal government currently has the capacity to generate a ratings system that will even be neutral,” she said. “I think it’s more likely that it will be harmful to students.”
“我不认为联邦政府目前有能力制定出一个好的评分体系，它会连中立都达不到，”霍克斯比说，“我觉得这个体系更可能会对学生造成损害。”
The rankings approach is working just fine for Queens College, which will prominently feature the Washington Monthly honor in its new recruitment materials, but even its president has his misgivings.
但对于皇后学院而言，这种排名方法颇为有益。在皇后学院新的招生材料中，该学院在《华盛顿月刊》的排名中名列前茅这一点被放在了突出位置，但即便是它的院长也有自己的担忧。
“I happen also to be a philosopher,” Dr. Muyskens said, “and I know that if we go too far on the value added and cost, we’re going to have people too focused on the practical to explore.”
“我碰巧也是个哲学家，”梅斯肯斯说，“而且我知道，如果我们太过重视附加值和成本，人们就会过于关注实际效果、急功近利，而不是去探索知识。”
As he spoke, students in the next room were participating in a study group about the Middle East, learning how to engage with opponents without getting bogged down in accusation and retribution. Face-to-face interactions like that can be the most enriching part of college, Dr. Muyskens said, but they never make it into any algorithm of value.
就在梅斯肯斯说话时，在隔壁房间，学生们正在参加一个关于中东的学习小组，学习如何与观点相反的人进行互动，而又不陷入指责和反击的泥淖。这种面对面的交流，可能是大学里最丰富头脑的部分，梅斯肯斯说，但这些内容永远都无法进入任何一种“是否物有所值”的计算方法。
He is proud of the school’s high score, but he said, “If it isn’t balanced by other perspectives, it’s dangerous.”
对于学院的高排名，梅斯肯斯很骄傲，但他说，“如果不用其他视角来平衡，就会很危险。”