Depending on whom you ask, a proposed new international testing system will either be the next big thing in higher education or a pointless, expensive rankings exercise that will be used to criticize faculty at hard-pressed colleges and universities.
对于这套提议推行的新国际测试系统，有人说它将成为高等教育的下一个重大事件，也有人说它是一个毫无意义、昂贵的评级做法，会被用来非难重压之下的高校的教员。
At a meeting in its headquarters in Paris last month, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development released a study on whether it would be possible to test what students around the world actually learn in colleges and universities. In November, the organization will decide whether to press ahead with the new system, Assessment of Higher Education Learning Outcomes, or Ahelo.
经合组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)于上月在其巴黎总部召开的会议上发布了一份有关对世界各大高校学生实际学习效果进行统一测试的可行性研究报告。今年11月，该组织将决定是否继续开发这一名为高等教育学习情况评估（Assessment of Higher Education Learning Outcomes，简称Ahelo）的新系统。
For Andreas Schleicher, the O.E.C.D.’s chief education adviser, the new system is the obvious follow-up to the Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, an influential exam that tests 15-year-olds around the world in mathematics, science and reading every three years.
对于经合组织首席教育顾问安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)来说，这一新系统明显是国际学生评估项目(Program for International Student Assessment，简称PISA)的延续。PISA是一个十分有影响力的评估系统，用于测试全世界15岁青少年数学、科学和阅读能力；测试每三年举行一次。
The most recent results, from the 2009 test, pleased Shanghai, South Korea and Finland, which were at the top of the tables, and caused hand-wringing in countries like the United States, which ranked considerably further down.
最近的结果，也就是2009年的测试结果，令上海、韩国和芬兰感到十分欣慰，因为这些国家或地区的测试成绩名列前茅，但却让美国这样的国家倍感失望，因为它们的排名进一步显著下滑。
In part, Dr. Schleicher sees Ahelo as a response to the rising influence of university rankings, which are widely reported in the media and which tend to emphasize research over teaching. “We need some language to talk about teaching quality and learning outcomes that isn’t tied to research,” he said. “If we don’t have a way of measuring teaching then we are going to have to rely on reputation — which only tells you about the past.”
在某种程度上，施莱谢尔博士认为大学排名影响力的不断提高催生了Ahelo系统，因为这些排名广为媒体报道，而且偏向于注重研究能力而不是教学水平。他说：“我们需要某种语汇来探讨与研究能力无关的教学质量和学生的学习情况。如果我们没有衡量教学质量的方法，那么我们就只能通过学校的声誉去评判，而声誉仅代表学校的过去。”
Patti M. Peterson, an official at the American Council on Education, which represents college and university presidents, said “trying to take very different systems of higher education and measure across them” is a doomed effort. Dr. Peterson, who oversees the education council’s international work, questioned whether Ahelo’s aim — “to support improvement in learning outcomes” — would be achieved. She worried that the test could become “a Trojan horse for rankings.”
代表高校校长的美国教育委员会(The American Council on Education)官员帕蒂·皮特森(Patti M. Peterson)表示：“试图采用迥然不同的高等教育系统对各大高校进行统一评估”，这一做法难逃失败的厄运。负责教育委员会国际事务的皮特森博士对Ahelo能否实现其“帮助改善学习效果”的目标表示怀疑。她担心，这一测试可能会成为一个“为排名而生的特洛伊木马”。
“If it’s really about improvement, why not let the institutions be anonymous?” Dr. Peterson said.
皮特森博士说：“如果真是为了改善学习效果，为什么不对被测试机构实行匿名制？”
Her doubts were echoed by John Aubrey Douglass, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a prominent critic of the Collegiate Learning Assessment, a U.S. test that served as a model for Ahelo.
她的质疑声得到了加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)教授约翰·欧伯瑞·道格拉斯(John Aubrey Douglass)的响应。他是反对大学学习评估(Collegiate Learning Assessment)系统的知名批评人士，而Ahelo正是借鉴了这个美国测试系统。
“If the purpose is for institutions to use the data from this test for self-improvement, you’re not going to get there,” he said by telephone from Berkeley. “But once it’s in the market these things are hard to unseat.”
他在伯克利通过电话表示：“如果目的是为了让校方依据测试数据来进行自我改善，那么效果不会好到哪去。然而，一旦该系统进入市场，要把它请出市场则不是件容易的事。”
He compared Ahelo to the SAT college entrance exam in the United States. “The SAT has long been shown to correlate poorly with academic success,” he said. “But it’s impossible to get rid of because so many colleges use it and there is no incentive to develop a better replacement.”
他将Ahelo比作美国的学术能力评估测试(SAT)。他说：“尽管长期以来人们发现，SAT与学业成功的关联度相当低，但是，要废除这种考试是不可能的，因为众多高校都在使用它，而且人们也没有动力去开发更好的替代测试。”
“Ahelo has, surprisingly, become highly controversial in recent months,” said Philip Altbach, director of the Center for International Higher Education at Boston College. “Many continue to wonder whether it is possible to obtain reliable data from countries with quite different approaches to the curriculum, different arrangements for access to higher education, and other variables.”
波士顿学院(Boston College)国际高等教育中心(Center for International Higher Education)主任菲利普·阿尔特巴克(Philip Altbach)指出：“令人惊奇的是，Ahelo在最近几个月引起了极大的争议。由于其他国家采取的是截然不同的课程设置和迥异的高校录取方式，再加上其他变量因素，很多人都想知道是否能从这些国家获取可靠数据。”
According to Dr. Schleicher, initially, “we had great doubts that it would be possible to develop a test that works across languages and cultures.” But he added, “Now we believe it is possible.”
施莱谢尔博士最初表示：“我们曾对开发跨语言、跨文化测试的可能性深表怀疑。”但是他补充说：“现在，我们认为这是可能的。”
There has also been considerable criticism of Ahelo’s cost. So far, the O.E.C.D. has spent about $13 million on the project, even though there is no confirmation it will go ahead.
Ahelo的成本问题也成为了众矢之的。到目前为止，尽管没有确切消息表明Ahelo项目能否得以继续开展，然而经合组织已在该项目上花费了约1300万美元。
“Why is it necessary to do a very, very, very expensive multilingual, multinational test?” Dr. Peterson of the American Council on Education said.
美国教育委员会皮特森博士说：“为什么非得开发一个如此昂贵的多语言、跨国测试系统？”
Dr. Schleicher said Ahelo “is not going to be a cheap test.”
施莱谢尔博士说，Ahelo“不会便宜”。
“If you want to measure creativity or collaboration, that’s very hard to do in a multiple-choice test,” he said. “But we’re pretty confident that if countries are willing to spend the money we can give them something.”
他说：“如果目的是为了衡量创造力或协作性，那么仅凭一个多项选择测试是做不到的。但是如果各国肯花钱，我们还是可以想出一些办法来的，对此我们很有信心。”
He used the standardized test for 15-year-olds as an example.
他举的例子便是针对15岁青少年所开发的标准化测试PISA。
“If countries in the O.E.C.D. area would improve the performance of their education systems by just 25 PISA points — which is what Poland achieved over the last six years — the long-term economic gain accruing to students over their lifetime would be about $115 trillion,” he said.
他说：“如果经合组织成员国可以将教育体制的表现按PISA标准提高25分——也就是波兰在过去6年中所取得的成绩——那么这些学生一生所带来的长远经济效益将达到115万亿美元。”
The Ahelo proposal covers three areas: economics, engineering and generic skills. The first two parts were chosen for being more amenable to cross-cultural comparison than other fields, while the generic portion is meant to test the kind of skills thought to be attractive to employers.
拟议的Ahelo系统计划包含三大部分：经济学、工程学和通用技能。相比其他领域，前两个部分入选的原因在于其更易于进行跨文化比较，而通用技能部分则是为了测试雇主可能感兴趣的技能。
One sample generic skills exercise asks students to imagine they work for the mayor’s office in a town where a three-eyed catfish has been caught in a lake, causing panic among residents and calls for a nearby factory to be closed. Pulling together media reports, environmental data and the testimony of scientists and other interested parties, the students have to prepare a briefing assessing the likelihood that the mutation was caused by chemical contamination, parasites or inbreeding.
比如，通用技能测试题的一个例题要求学生设想自己在市长办公室工作。题目背景是，有人在该市的湖中抓了一条三眼鲶鱼，在居民中引发了恐慌，因而他们要求关闭附近的工厂。学生必须根据试题给出的媒体报道、环境数据和科学家以及其他相关方的证词，起草一份简报，对化学污染、病虫害或同系繁殖引发变异的可能性进行评估。
Michael J. Feuer, dean of the graduate school of education at George Washington University, remains skeptical about the relevance of such tasks.
乔治华盛顿大学(George Washington University)教育学研究生院院长迈克尔·费尔(Michael J. Feuer)仍对类似题目的相关性持怀疑态度。
“There’s a fantasy about educational testing — that we can come up with a dipstick and know exactly what the oil level is,” he said by telephone from Washington. “In relying on test scores to make judgments about institutions, you end up undermining the morale of people who are being judged with only part of their story included.”
他在华盛顿通过电话表示：“有人对教育测试抱有幻想，他们认为这如同发明一把量油尺来测量油的深浅那么简单。而事实上，如果我们依据测试分数来评价高校，那么我们最终会打击教职工的士气，因为我们评判的依据仅仅是他们的部分表现。”
Many of Ahelo’s critics are worried that a test intended to allow universities to compare themselves with similar institutions in other countries would be seized upon by lawmakers and politicians.
很多批判Ahelo的人士担心，由于测试的目的是让大学与其他国家的同类机构进行比较，因此议员和政客们可能会利用这一测试。
“There’s a fear factor about how ministers use data and piggyback on the latest educational trends,” Dr. Douglass of the University of California said. “One result is a movement toward uniformity in how things are taught. We want to be informed, but we don’t all want to be the same.”
加州大学道格拉斯博士说：“令人担忧的一个因素在于，各国教育部长们如何使用数据并看待最新的教育趋势。结果之一便是教学方式的趋同化。我们希望了解情况，但我们不想变成一个模子。”
Dr. Schleicher shares that concern. “A tool you design for improvement gets corrupted when you use it for accountability,” he said.
施莱谢尔博士也表达了类似的担忧。他说：“当用于自我改善的工具被用来问责时，这种工具便会走向堕落。”
Still, he seemed unfazed by the controversy. “I’ve been through the same thing with PISA,” he said. “In the beginning everybody said, ‘Not me!’ Now they are all part of it.”
然而，争议似乎并没有让他动摇。他说：“在PISA项目上，我也有过类似的经历。一开始，大家都说，‘我不会参加！’而现在他们都已成为了其中的一员。”
“Ahelo is going to reveal the truth about quality in higher education,” he said. “Not everybody is going to like the results.”
他说：“Ahelo将揭晓高等教育质量的真相，但并不是所有人都会喜欢随之而来的结果。”