RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — The death of Justice Antonin Scaliaon Saturdayset off an immediate partisan battle over a vacancy that could reshape the Supreme Court for years to come, as President Barack Obama vowed to nominate a successor and Senate Republicans called on him to let the next president fill the seat.
加利福尼亚州兰乔米拉奇——美国最高法院大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Justice Antonin Scalia)周六的逝世，马上引发了一场争夺这个空缺的党派斗争，斯卡利亚的继任者可能在未来多年重塑最高法院，随着奥巴马总统发誓要提名继任者，参议院的共和党人已要求他让下任总统来填补这个空缺。
Within hours of Scalia's death, both sides began laying the groundwork for what could be a titanic confirmation struggle fueled by ideological interest groups. The surprise opening also jolted the presidential campaign hours before a Republican debate in South Carolina, shifting the conversation toward the priorities each candidate would have in making such a selection.
在斯卡利亚死后的几小时内，双方已开始为可能是一场极为艰巨的确认斗争做准备工作，不同意识形态的利益集团让这场斗争异常激烈。这个意外的空缺也在南卡罗来纳州共和党辩论会开始的几小时前震撼了总统竞选活动，把辩论的话题转移到每位候选人提名大法官时需要优先考虑的事项上。
Speaking to reporters from Rancho Mirage, where he is golfing this weekend with friends, Obama paid tribute to Scalia, who died earlier in the day in Texas. He described him as “one of the towering legal figures of our time,” a jurist who dedicated his life “to the cornerstone of our democracy: the rule of law.”
本周末，奥巴马在他与朋友一起打高尔夫球的兰乔米拉奇对记者发表讲话时，赞扬了当天早些时候在得克萨斯州去世的斯卡利亚。奥巴马把斯卡利亚描述为“我们这个时代的一位出色法律人物”，一位把一生奉献给“我们民主制度基石：法治”的法学家。
But Obama also said, “I plan to fulfill my constitutional responsibilities to nominate a successor in due time.”
但奥巴马也说，“我打算履行宪法赋予我的职责，在适当的时候提名继任者。”
“There will be plenty of time for me to do so and for the Senate to fulfill its responsibility to give that person a fair hearing and a timely vote,” the president said. “These are responsibilities that I take seriously, as should everyone. They are bigger than any one party, they are about our democracy.”
“我将有充足的时间来做这件事，参议院也将有充足的时间去履行其对提名人进行公平听证、及时投票的责任，”总统说。“这些都是我认真承担的责任，也是每个人所应该的。这些责任大于任何一个政党，事关我们的民主制度。”
The president's tone left little doubt that he intends to use the full power of his office to try to leave a final imprint on the Supreme Court. His choice has the potential to be more decisive for the court's makeup than his previous two — Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan — given Scalia's longtime status as the court's most outspoken conservative.
总统的语气让人对他的意图毫无疑问，他打算使用总统的所有权力试图在最高法院留下一个最终的印记。鉴于斯卡利亚所拥有的作为最高法院最直言不讳的保守声音的长期地位，奥巴马这次的选择，对最高法院性质的潜在决定作用，要大于他上两次的选择：索尼娅·索托马约(Sonia Sotomayor)和艾蕾娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)大法官。
Obama would be the first president since Ronald Reagan to fill three seats on the court. But Senate Republicans made clear they would not make it easy for him, arguing that with just 11 months left in office he should leave the choice to the winner of the November general election. With 54 seats in the Senate, Republicans have the power to block the confirmation of any nomination sent by Obama if they stick together.
奥巴马有机会成为自里根以来填补最高法院三个席位的第一位总统。不过，参议院共和党议员已明确表示，他们不会让奥巴马轻而易举地做到这一点，他们认为奥巴马的总统任期只剩下11个月了，他应该把大法官的人选留给11月总统大选的获胜者。共和党在参议院拥有54个席位，如果这些参议员们团结在一起的话，他们有阻止让奥巴马送交的任何提名人得到确认的权力。
“The American people should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court justice,” Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, said in a statement. “Therefore, this vacancy should not be filled until we have a new president.”
“美国人民应该对选择他们的下一位最高法院大法官有发言权，”参议院共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在一份声明中说。“因此，在我们有一位新总统前，不应该填补这个空缺。”
Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, agreed, citing “the huge divide in the country and the fact that this president, above all others, has made no bones about his goal to use the courts to circumvent Congress and push through his own agenda.”
参议员司法委员会共和党主席、爱荷华州参议员查克·格拉斯利(Chuck Grassley)表示同意，他的理由是“国内存在巨大的鸿沟，以及现任总统在实现用法院来避开国会、以推动自己议程的目的上比任何人都毫不犹豫的事实。”
Although the White House made no immediate statement about a replacement, advisers to Obama made clear privately that he had no intention of leaving the matter to the next president. His Democratic allies made the case that Republicans would be irresponsible to block an appointment.
虽然白宫没有马上对大法官继任问题发表声明，但奥巴马顾问们在私下明确表示，他没有把此事留给下任总统的意图。奥巴马的民主党盟友指出，共和党人阻止大法官人选将是不负责任的行为。
“It would be unprecedented in recent history for the Supreme Court to go a year with a vacant seat,” said Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic minority leader. “Failing to fill this vacancy would be a shameful abdication of one of the Senate's most essential constitutional responsibilities.”
“让最高法院在一年的时间里空着一个席位运行将是近代历史上前所未有的，”参议院少数派领袖、内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)说。“不填补这个空缺将是参议院对其最重要的宪法责任之一的可耻失职。”
Scalia is the first member of the court to die in office since Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who died in 2005, leaving the court short-handed and raising the prospect of 4-4 splits on major issues.
自从首席大法官威廉·H·伦奎斯特(William H.Rehnquist)2005年去世以来，斯卡利亚是第一位死在任上的最高法院成员，他的逝世让最高法院人手不足，带来了在重大问题上出现4票对4票的意见分裂的前景。
A tie by the court effectively leaves the decision under appeal unchanged but sets no national precedent. The court has the option of setting cases for re-argument in the term that starts in October in the hope that they can be heard by a full court.
最高法院在考虑上诉中的决定时意见持平，实际上等于维持下级法院的决定，但该决定并不在全国设定任何先例。最高法院可以选择在10月份开始的下一个开庭期，听取有关案子的再次辩论，希望届时案子能得到一个全席法庭的考量。
The opening of a seat on the Supreme Court was sure to roil the presidential campaign. Both sides will use the vacancy to rouse the most fervent members of their political bases by demonstrating the stakes in the election. Republicans will likely talk about the need to stop Obama from using the court to advance his liberal agenda while Democrats will warn their supporters about the dangers of a Republican president making the selection.
最高法院席位出现空缺肯定会搅乱总统竞选活动。两党候选人都将利用这一空缺，通过展示这次大选的利害关系，来激发他们政治基础的最狂热成员的热情。共和党人很可能会大谈阻止奥巴马利用法院来推进其自由派议程的必要性，而民主党人将会向其支持者们发出警告，警告他们让一位共和党总统选择大法官的危险。
The unexpected timing of the vacancy will force Obama to make a choice about how far he is willing to go to confront Republicans and inject social issues like abortion into the fall campaign. Will he opt for a relative moderate in hopes of winning over enough Republicans to actually seat a replacement despite McConnell's warning? Or will he choose a more liberal candidate at the risk of being blocked on the theory that it might galvanize Democratic voters?
空缺出现的时机令人意外，因此奥巴马不得不做出一个选择，关系到他打算在多大程度上和共和党人对抗，并把堕胎等社会问题注入到秋季竞选活动中。他会选择一个相对的中间派人士，希望赢得足够多共和党人的支持，即便有麦康奈尔的警告，也能把空缺填补上？还是选择一个自由派候选人，承担被否决的风险，因为理论上这可能会激发民主党选民的斗志？
The situation also could prove complicated for McConnell, who since winning the majority in 2014 has labored to shed the obstructionist label and prove that his caucus can govern responsibly.
可能对于麦康奈尔来说，这样的局面也很复杂。他在2014年赢得参议院多数之后，一直在吃力地摆脱“阻挠者”标签，证明他的党派能够进行可靠的治理。
Approving an Obama nominee could provoke a backlash from conservatives, but a prolonged battle would put Senate Republicans in the middle of a campaign where McConnell had hoped not to be.
批准奥巴马的提名可能会引发保守派的强烈反对，但旷日持久的纠缠争斗，也会让参议院共和党人卷入一场竞选中，这是麦康奈尔不想看到的。
Obama has installed two reliable liberals on the high court, Sotomayor and Kagan, and adding another in place of Scalia's formidable conservative voice could alter jurisprudence on issues like criminal justice, civil rights and affirmative action. The fate of Obama's own programs could be affected, including his liberalization of immigration deportation rules and his environmental crackdown on coal-fired power plants.
奥巴马已经把两名可靠的自由派人士索托马约和卡根送入了最高法院，再加入一位以取代斯卡利亚那令人肃然起敬的保守派声音，可能会改变刑事司法、公民权利和平权问题的判例。奥巴马自己的一些计划也可能会遭受影响，比如放宽移民驱逐规则，限制燃煤电厂的环境危害等。
With Democrats and independents who caucus with them holding 46 seats in the Senate, Obama faces a challenge getting to the simple majority needed to confirm a nominee and would face an even steeper climb to rally the 60 votes needed if Republican opponents mount a filibuster to his choice.
民主党及其联合的无党派人士在参议院拥有46个席位，确认提名需要的简单多数对奥巴马已经是一个挑战，如果共和党对手要对他的提名人选采取拖延战术，那就需要获得60票，难度更是大幅增加。
Filibusters of Supreme Court nominations are rare, but the Senate blocked the confirmation of Abe Fortas to chief justice in 1968, leaving the seat to be filled by his successor, President Richard M. Nixon.
最高法院提名遭拖延是非常罕见的，但参议院在1968年阻止了对艾毕·福塔斯(Abe Fortas)首席大法官提名的确认。该席位后来由继任者理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统填补。
When Democrats were last in the majority and rewrote Senate rules to bar filibusters for lower court judges, they deliberately left it possible to filibuster nominations to the Supreme Court. As a senator, Obama supported a filibuster against Justice Samuel Alito, who was nonetheless confirmed in 2006.
民主党上一次占多数的时候曾改写参议院规则，禁止对最高法以下级别法院的法官采用拖延战术，但当时他们故意留下了让最高法院提名可以遭拖延的空子。奥巴马担任参议员时，曾支持拖延大法官塞缪尔·阿利托(Samuel Alito)的提名确认，不过阿利托在2006年时仍然获得了确认。
While seats on the Supreme Court were sometimes left open for extended periods in the 19th century, that has been less true in modern history. After Fortas stepped down from the court in 1969, his seat went unfilled for a year because the Senate rejected Nixon's first two choices to succeed him. According to the Congressional Research Service, the longest the Senate has taken to act on a Supreme Court nomination since 1975 was that of Robert H. Bork, who was rejected 108 days after being selected.
最高法院的席位在19世纪有时会长期空缺，但这种情况在现代比较少见。福塔斯1969年离开最高法院后，他的席位空缺了一年，因为参议院否决了尼克松提出来接替他的前两个人选。美国国会研究服务部(Congressional Research Service)的资料显示，自1975年以来，参议院在收到最高法院提名后拖延时间最长的是罗伯特·H·博克(Robert H. Bork)那次，他在被提名108天后遭到了否决。
Critics of Obama said the timing of the vacancy, coming in the middle of a hotly contested presidential election, should change the calculus. “It has been 80 years since an election-year vacancy has been filled and the politics of the court has changed drastically since those days,” said Shannen W. Coffin, who was counsel to Vice President Dick Cheney.
奥巴马的批评者说，这个空缺是在总统大选竞争白热化阶段出现的，因此不应该遵循惯例。“上一次填补大选之年出现的空缺是在80年前了，自那之后，法院政治已经发生了巨大变化，”前副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)的顾问沙南·W·科芬(Shannen W. Coffin)说。
But Democrats noted that a Democratic Senate confirmed Justice Anthony M. Kennedy in February 1988, an election year, although the vacancy had come up the year before. Nan Aron, president of the liberal Alliance for Justice, said the Supreme Court should “not become a casualty of the politics of destruction, denial and obstruction.”
不过民主党人指出，民主党主导的参议院在1988年2月确认了大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)，当年也是大选之年，虽然空缺是在之前一年出现的。自由派组织司法联盟(Alliance for Justice)的主席南·阿隆(Nan Aron)表示，最高法院“不应成为破坏、拒绝和阻挠等勾心斗角的行动的牺牲品”。
This was a situation the White House did not expect to face, given decisions by the older justices not to retire last year when a confirmation process would have been less affected by the election. But the White House has a thick file of potential nominees, and allies were urging it on Saturday to move quickly to send a choice to avoid giving Republicans an excuse to delay.
确认过程如果发生在去年，受大选影响就会比较小，鉴于年长的法官们去年决定不退休，这样的局面是白宫未曾意料到的。但是对于潜在的提名人，白宫已经准备了厚厚的文件，上周六，盟友们敦促白宫迅速行动起来，提出人选，以免共和党借故拖延。
Obama did not discuss his potential nominee, and left the briefing room here after his short statement without taking questions. White House officials declined to give further guidance on the timing of a nomination.
奥巴马没有谈论他的提名人选，在发布简短的声明之后就离开了新闻发布厅，没有回答问题。白宫官员拒绝对提名的时机给予进一步评论。
Obama, who had almost no legal common ground with Scalia, nevertheless lavished praise on him for his wit, his brilliance, his commitment to his family, and his love of opera — a passion, the president noted, that he shared with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is much closer to Obama's legal philosophy.
奥巴马在法律理念上和斯卡利亚几乎没有共同点，但还是盛赞了斯卡利亚的风趣、才智、家庭责任感，以及对歌剧的热爱——总统指出，大法官鲁思·巴德尔·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)也热爱歌剧，后者的法律理念与奥巴马更接近。