“Wow, he’s handsome,” one dinner guest said, peering over a throng of photographers.
“哇，他真帅，”一位出席晚餐的嘉宾从一大群摄影师的头顶上看过去说道。
“He’s going to be our president in, like, 30 years,” another gushed.
“他差不多在30年内将会成为我们的总统，”另一位嘉宾兴奋地说。
The event, last Monday at the American Museum of Natural History, was a benefit for the Blue Card, which aids Holocaust survivors, and the object of the room’s collective kvelling was Ronan Farrow, the 25-year-old lawyer, diplomat, author, boy genius, offspring of two celebrities (though which two is an open question), possessor of alabaster good looks and, as of this month, the latest talent to join MSNBC, where he will host a weekday show starting in January.
10月21日在美国自然历史博物馆(American Museum of Natural History)举办的这场活动是为了给蓝卡(Blue Card)募捐，蓝卡是一个为纳粹大屠杀幸存者提供帮助的组织，而晚餐上受到参加者集体夸奖的则是罗南·法罗(Ronan Farrow)，一个25岁的律师、外交官、作家、天才少年、两位名人的后代（虽然究竟哪两位仍然没有定论）、石膏雕塑般美貌的拥有者，以及本月加入MSNBC电视频道的最新人才；他将从明年1月起主持一个工作日节目。
Like a styled valedictorian, Mr. Farrow worked his way through the well wishers, his corn-colored hair lightly tousled. Though he already has the résumé of someone twice his age, in the last year Mr. Farrow has come into his own as a public figure, appearing on Vanity Fair’s international best-dressed list and applying his spiky Twitter commentary to everything from politics (“Leadership in America just turned into a pumpkin”) to pop culture (“Miley Cyrus is basically our generation’s Simone de Beauvoir”).
像是一位在毕业典礼上致告别辞的最优生那样，罗南在向他表达良好祝愿的人群中慢慢前行，他金黄色的头发略显凌乱。虽然罗南的履历已与年龄两倍于他的人相当，但作为一名公众人物，他在过去一年中才崭露头角，他入选了《名利场》全球最佳着装榜，并开始用自己的Twitter账户发出尖刻评论，涉及从政治（“美国的领导都变成了南瓜”[Leadership in America just turned into a pumpkin]）到大众文化（“麦莉·赛勒斯基本上是我们这代人的西蒙娜·德·波伏娃”[Miley Cyrus is basically our generation’s Simone de Beauvoir]）等各个领域。
Mr. Farrow was there to receive an award for his humanitarian efforts, along with his mother, the actress Mia Farrow, who observed the hoopla from a corner, illuminated by the glow of the Hayden Planetarium. “I’m very proud of him,” Ms. Farrow said, cradling a glass of red wine. Dressed in dark-blue velvet, she was talking with Kati Marton, the widow of the ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, an early mentor of Mr. Farrow.
罗南是来领奖的，领一项表彰他的人道主义努力的奖，一起获奖的还有他的母亲、演员米娅·法罗(Mia Farrow)，她在海登天文馆灯光的照耀下，从一个角落里观察着这些喧哗。米娅手端一杯红葡萄酒说，“我为他感到非常地自豪。”她身穿一套深蓝色的天鹅绒晚礼服，在与理查德·C·霍尔布鲁克(Richard C. Holbrooke)大使的遗孀凯蒂·马顿(Kati Marton)交谈，他们是罗南早年的提携者。
“Richard and I met Ronan when he was a scrawny 15-year-old,” Ms. Marton said. “He used to sit at a huge desk outside Richard’s office, and people would come in and say, ‘Who’s that kid?’ ”
马顿说，“我和理查德认识罗南时他还是个瘦巴巴的15岁的孩子。他曾常坐在理查德办公室外巨大的办公桌旁，人们会走进来问，‘那个孩子是谁？’”
Good question. Mr. Farrow is the only biological son of Mia Farrow and Woody Allen. Or at least he used to be. In Vanity Fair this month, Ms. Farrow made the head-spinning admission that her son’s father is “possibly” her ex-husband Frank Sinatra. Since then, Mr. Farrow’s paternity has become tabloid fodder, upstaging his announcements: that he would join MSNBC and that he is writing a book, “Pandora’s Box,” which its publisher said will expose the “surprising dark side” of American foreign policy.
这个问题问得很好。罗南是米娅·法罗和伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)唯一的亲生儿子，或者说他曾经是。米娅本月向《名利场》杂志承认，她儿子的父亲“可能”是她的前夫弗兰克·西纳特拉(Frank Sinatra)，这条新闻令人头晕目眩。从那时起，罗南的父亲是谁，就成了小报的八卦素材，让他自己发布的最新消息相形见绌，罗南宣布将加入MSNBC，而且正在写一本名为《潘多拉的盒子》(Pandora’s Box)的书，书的出版商称该书将揭露美国外交政策“惊人的阴暗面”。
Mr. Farrow, for his part, responded to the speculation with coy humor, tweeting to his nearly 140,000 followers: “Listen, we’re all *possibly* Frank Sinatra’s son.” (The comment has been retweeted almost 10,000 times.) Nevertheless, the issue persisted, even from his new MSNBC colleague Chris Matthews, who teased him at a book party a week ago by calling him “Young blue eyes.”
对这条新闻罗南本人用含糊其辞的幽默做出回应，他发贴给自己近14万的Twitter关注者：“听着，我们都有可能是弗兰克的儿子。”（这个帖子已被转发了约1万次。）但是，问题依然存在，甚至连他在MSNBC的同事克里斯·马修斯(Chris Matthews)也在一周前的一次图书会上跟他开玩笑，称他为“年轻的蓝眼睛”。
For Mr. Farrow, the Sinatra question is part of a lifelong quandary: how to make a name based on your accomplishments when your family history is so relentlessly interesting. Perhaps driven by a desire to outpace his parental saga, Mr. Farrow has barreled through life at least five years ahead of schedule, reading Kafka in elementary school (“The Metamorphosis,” his mother said at the benefit) and becoming, at 11, the youngest student to enroll in Bard College at Simon’s Rock in Great Barrington, Mass.
对罗南来说，西纳特拉问题是伴随其一生的困惑的一部分：当你的家庭历史令人们持续不断地感兴趣时，你怎样才能靠自己的努力出名。或许是出于一种要超越父母传奇的渴望，罗南的人生历程比一般人至少要提早五年，在小学时他就读了卡夫卡（他妈妈在募捐会上说他读的是《变形记》[The Metamorphosis]），11岁时他成了巴德学院位于马萨诸塞州大巴灵顿的西蒙岩石分校(Bard College at Simon’s Rock in Great Barrington, Mass)招收的最年轻的学生。
At 15, he received a college degree from Bard, and at 16 was accepted to Yale Law School. At 21, he joined Mr. Holbrooke at the State Department, where he later became Hillary Rodham Clinton’s special adviser for global youth issues.
他15岁时从巴德学院拿到了大学学位，16岁时被耶鲁大学法学院(Yale Law School)录取。21岁时，他到美国国务院(State Department)工作，进入霍尔布鲁克的班子，后来他在国务院成为希拉里·罗德曼·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的全球青年问题特别顾问。
Feel bad about yourself yet? There’s more. In 2011, he was awarded a Rhodes scholarship, for which he studied international relations at Oxford University. The scholarship marked the beginning of his drift back into the public eye, decades after his parents’ well-documented breakup. Though he had been hiding in plain sight, the world seemed stunned to discover that Woody Allen’s son had somehow turned into a fair-haired Übermensch, like the WASP rival in one of his father’s movies.
是不是已经觉得自愧不如了？还不止这些。2011年，他获得罗德(Rhodes)奖学金，这笔奖学金让他得以在牛津大学(Oxford University)攻读国际关系学位。这笔奖学金也让他在父母高调分手近20年后，重新进入公众的视野。虽然他一直就在人们的眼前，但大家似乎十分震惊地发现，伍迪·艾伦的儿子竟然长成了一个金色头发的“超人”，就像是在他父亲的电影中扮演高富帅对手的那种。
Mother and son no longer talk to Mr. Allen, whose affair with one of Ms. Farrow’s adopted children, Soon-Yi Previn, tore the family asunder in the early ’90s. But Mr. Farrow seems to have mastered the art of deflating his eccentric history with dry wit. In June 2012, he tweeted, “Happy father’s day — or as they call it in my family, happy brother-in-law’s day.”
母亲和儿子已不再与艾伦有任何关系，艾伦在20世纪90年代初与米娅收养的一个孩子宋宜·普列文(Soon-Yi Previn)之间的恋爱分裂了这个家庭。但罗南似乎已经掌握了用风趣来消弱自己离奇家史的技巧。2012年6月，他在twitter发贴说，“父亲节快乐，或者用我家人的话来说，姐夫节快乐。”
His mother retweeted the comment, adding: “Boom.”
他的母亲转发了这个帖子，还加了评论：“轰”。
Ronan Farrow is a relatively recent invention. He was born Satchel Farrow, named after the Hall of Fame pitcher Satchel Paige. At his birth, Mr. Allen joked, “The only problem is, he looks like Edward G. Robinson.”
叫罗南·法罗的这个人相对来说是个新发明。他出生时叫萨奇·法罗(Satchel Farrow)，是以进入棒球名人堂(Hall of Fame)的黑人投球手萨奇·佩吉(Satchel Paige)的名字命名的。他出生时，艾伦曾开玩笑说，“唯一的问题是，他长得更像爱德华·G·罗宾逊(Edward G. Robinson)。”
His parents had met at Elaine’s in 1979 and become one of New York’s defining couples, making 13 movies together in 10 years. They never married, and lived on opposite sides of Central Park, Ms. Farrow with her pets (“two cats, a canary, a parakeet, several chinchillas and assorted tropical fish,” as of 1991) and her ever-expanding brood of children — now four biological and eight adopted, many from extreme poverty and far-flung countries.
他的父母是1979年在“依莲”（Elaine's，一个社会名流聚集的餐馆及酒吧——译注）相遇的，他们成为最具纽约特色的情侣之一，在10年中一起拍了13部电影。他们一直没有结婚，分别住在中央公园(Central Park)的两边，米娅和她的宠物们（1991年时是“两只猫、一只金丝雀、一只长尾鹦鹉、几只毛丝鼠，还有各种各样的热带鱼”）以及她一大窝越来越多的孩子们住在一起，目前她有四个亲生孩子和八个收养的孩子，其中不少来自极其贫困和偏远国家。
In January 1992, Ms. Farrow discovered nude pictures of Ms. Previn taken in Mr. Allen’s apartment. In the nasty and transfixing custody battle that ensued, every aspect of the family’s life was aired in court and in the news media, including Satchel’s recalcitrant behavior toward Mr. Allen, who was limited to supervised visits with his son. A social worker testified that the boy would wipe away his father’s kisses and ask questions like, “Why don’t you give mommy money?”
1992年1月，米娅发现了在艾伦的公寓里拍摄的宋宜的裸照。之后爆发的一场有关监护权的恶战，极为令人震惊，这个家庭生活的方方面面都被曝露在法庭和媒体面前，包括萨奇对艾伦的桀骜不驯行为，那时艾伦与儿子见面必须是在有人监督的情况下。一个社会工作者在法庭上作证说，萨奇会用手抹去父亲的亲吻，然后问这样的问题，比如，“你为什么不给妈妈钱？”
Mr. Allen lost custody, and since then Mr. Farrow has kept his distance, later telling an interviewer, “He’s my father married to my sister. That makes me his son and his brother-in-law. That is such a moral transgression.”
艾伦失去了监护权，自那时起，罗南一直与父亲保持着距离，后来他曾告诉一位采访者说，“他是我父亲，却娶了我姐姐。这让我既是他儿子，又是他的小舅子。这是何等的道德沦丧。”
After the trial, Ms. Farrow moved her children to Frog Hollow, her home in rural Connecticut. Diane Sawyer, a family friend, recalled the “tumbling around and racing and kid cacophony” of the Farrow household, describing young Satchel as “watchful,” with a “wicked sense of humor.” (A former nanny once called him “an old soul in a goofy little body.”)
法庭审判结束后，米娅把她的孩子们搬到她在康涅狄格乡下弗洛格霍洛的家里。她家的一个朋友黛安娜·索耶(Diane Sawyer)回忆法罗家时说，“孩子们在屋里翻筋斗、乱跑，到处都是刺耳的叫声”，她说萨奇小时候很“警惕”，有“极好的幽默感”。（他以前的一位保姆曾称他是“一个呆在傻乎乎的小孩身体里的老成之人”。）
By 1999, Satchel was going by the nickname Seamus and studying Latin and biology at Simon’s Rock. Six years younger than most of his classmates, Seamus would be driven to campus each day, sometimes by his mother. A female student, whom he was reportedly sweet on, said at the time, “I think he’s adorable, but he’s just a little too young for me.”
到了1999年，萨奇已经在用谢默斯的别名，并在西蒙岩石分校学习拉丁文和生物学，他比班上大多数同学都小6岁，每天他被车送到学校，有时候是他母亲开车。据传他曾经喜欢过的一个女学生那时曾说过这样的话：“我认为他很可爱，但对我来说他太小了点。”
He soon transitioned into college classes at Bard, including a sophomore-level literature class taught by the biographer Elizabeth Frank. “Everyone liked him and admired him and respected him enormously,” Ms. Frank said, recalling a “wonderful” paper he wrote on Huckleberry Finn. “He just had this normality about him.”
很快他就开始读巴德学院的大学课程，其中包括传记作家伊丽莎白·弗兰克(Elizabeth Frank)讲授的大学二年级的文学课。弗兰克回想起他写的一篇关于哈克贝里·芬(Huckleberry Finn)的“绝佳”作文时说，“大家都很喜欢他、羡慕他，也极为尊重他。他处处表现出一种寻常的态度。”
Around the same time, he embraced his mother’s humanitarian concerns. As a youth spokesman for Unicef, he traveled to Angola and Sudan and exhibited his photographs back at school. Mr. Farrow often describes his multinational family as the basis of his diplomatic interests. “I grew up across the table from Moses, who has cerebral palsy, and next to my sister Quincy, born of a drug-addicted inner-city mother, and Minh, who is blind,” he told Vanity Fair, adding: “I saw problems and needs, so the next thing you think is: O.K., what are you going to do about it?”
大约在那同时，他开始关心母亲为之操心的人道主义事业。作为联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)的一位青年发言人，他曾去过安哥拉和苏丹，并把自己在那里拍的照片在学校作过展览。罗南经常把自己的、由来自世界各地的人组成的家庭描述为他对外交感兴趣的基础。“我长大的过程中，坐在我桌子对面的是摩西(Moses)，他患有脑瘫；坐在我旁边的是姐姐昆西(Quincy)，她的生母是城市贫民窟里的一位吸毒成瘾者；还有双目失明的敏(Minh)，”他对《名利场》杂志这样说，他补充道，“我看到了问题和需求，所以接下来想的是：好吧，你能为这些做点什么呢？”
By the time he entered Yale Law School, he was going mostly by his middle name, Ronan. (Seamus was too easily mispronounced.) His first year in New Haven, he took a class on international business transactions taught by Amy Chua, author of the child-rearing manifesto “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother.”
当他进入耶鲁大学法学院时，大多数时间他已经在用自己的中间名罗南。(谢默斯这个名字太容易被人念错。)他在纽黑文的第一年选了一门蔡美儿(Amy Chua)讲授的有关国际商务交易的课，她是育儿宣言《虎妈战歌》(Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother)的作者。
“I was told somehow that he was 16, but honestly I just quickly forgot about that,” Ms. Chua said. “He was incredibly precocious. I don’t think anybody noticed, which is amazing, because we have students at Yale Law School who are in their 30s and 40s.”
蔡美儿说，“不知何人曾告诉过我他只有16岁，但坦率地说，我很快就把这一点给忘了。他不可思议地早熟。我觉得没有人注意到他的年龄，这很令人吃惊，因为耶鲁大学法学院里也有30几岁，40几岁的学生。”
When the subject of his origins came up, he was reticent. “He has been almost adamant from the beginning about not ever riding on the coattails of either of his parents,” Ms. Chua said. (Asked if Ms. Farrow qualified as a tiger mother, she said, “Absolutely!”)
当他身世的话题被提起时，他沉默不语。蔡美儿说，“他从一开始就几乎一直坚持，决不沾父亲或是母亲的任何光儿。”（在被问及米娅是否算得上一位虎妈时，蔡美儿说，“绝对是！”）
When Mr. Holbrooke became President Obama’s special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2009, he took Mr. Farrow with him to the State Department. After spending two years in Kabul, Islamabad and Washington, Mr. Farrow began working on a task force for Secretary Clinton (which became the Office of Global Youth Issues) aimed at engaging young people in more than 40 countries.
2009年霍尔布鲁克成为奥巴马总统(President Obama)驻阿富汗和巴基斯坦特使，他带着罗南进了国务院。罗南在喀布尔、伊斯兰堡和华盛顿呆了两年后，开始为国务卿克林顿的一个特别小组工作，这个小组后来成为全球青年问题办公室，其目的是在40多个国家里吸引年轻人关心国际事务。
When he wasn’t busy navigating world events, he was adding some panache to the Washington social scene, often appearing at political fetes with Jon Lovett, a former Obama speechwriter and a co-creator of “1600 Penn.” Still, despite his waggish social-media presence, he is guarded about his private life, suggesting a persona more carefully calibrated than he lets on. (He has been bombarded with interview requests and, through an MSNBC spokeswoman, declined to be interviewed at length for this article.)
当他不忙于世界上的各种活动时，他也会为华盛顿的社交圈子增添光彩，他经常与曾任奥巴马演讲稿撰写人的乔恩·洛维特(Jon Lovett)一起出现在政治庆典上，洛维特也是《总统一家》(1600 Penn)这部电视连续剧的联合策划者。然而，虽然罗南在社交媒体上开玩笑，但他极少言及自己的私人生活，暗示着背后的一种比他所表现出来的要更为严肃的人物形象。（媒体接连不断地发给他要求采访的请求，他通过MSNBC的一位女发言人婉言拒绝了为本文接受详细采访。）
That persona will be tested at MSNBC, where, as the only solo host in his 20s, he will again be the youngest in the room. “He’s a man beyond his years,” said Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC, who seems to be positioning Mr. Farrow as the network’s in-house millennial.
这种人物形象将会在MSNBC得到检验，作为该电视台唯一的一位20几岁的单独主持人，他将再次成为房间里最年轻的人。MSNBC总裁菲尔·格里芬(Phil Griffin)说，“他比自己的年龄成熟得多。”看来他给罗南在这家电视台的定位是千禧年一代的台内代表。
His pivot to broadcasting seems to signal a willingness to embrace his celebrity — on his terms. “This is just a moment where he is able to use his voice,” said Ms. Sawyer, who has advised him on the “the kind of layered people” he needs to support his fledgling TV career. “I’ve told him, ‘If there is anything you want to do that I have a cautionary tale about, I’ll be there.’ ”
他转向电视广播似乎暗示着他有接受自己名人身份的意愿，当然这要按照他的条件行事。索耶说，“这正是他能够用自己声音的时刻。”索耶帮他出过主意，是关于他需要的“那种多层次的人”支持自己刚刚起步的电视职业生涯的，“我已经告诉他，‘如果对于任何你想做的事儿，我能给你讲有个警世故事的话，我会尽力而为。’”
His comfort in the spotlight was evident at the Blue Card benefit, where he received the Richard C. Holbrooke Award for Social Justice. He spoke of Mr. Holbrooke like a father — as if he needed more — who interviewed him for the State Department from the shower. “That was a classic Richard Holbrooke power play,” he joked, working the gray-haired crowd like a self-assured bar mitzvah boy.
他在聚光灯下的从容自如在蓝卡募捐会上有明显表现，在会上他被授予理查德· 霍尔布鲁克社会正义奖(Richard C. Holbrooke Award for Social Justice)。他谈到霍尔布鲁克就像是谈一位父亲，好像他需要更多的父亲似的，霍尔布鲁克是在淋浴中面试罗南，给了他国务院的工作机会。罗南开玩笑地说，“那是一场典型的理查德·霍尔布鲁克的高压攻势。”他就像一个充满自信的接受犹太教受戒礼的13岁男孩，把满堂头发花白的人都逗乐了。
“Part of what he taught me is that you have to fight to take a stand no matter what adversity you face,” Mr. Farrow said onstage. “And you have to take adversity and turn it outward toward the world, to educate others and to right wrongs.”
罗南在台上讲道，“他给我的教导之一是，无论面临什么样的困难，你必须为自己所采取的立场而战。你必须接受挑战，把挑战转化为面对外部世界的力量，来唤醒他人，来纠正不公。”
Certainly, he has taken that lesson to its extreme, turning his adversity-filled early childhood into a platform for various causes — and, increasingly, for himself. Later, as the wait staff cleared the main course, there was a conspicuous empty chair at the front of the hall.
不可否认，他已经将这一教导发挥得淋漓尽致，把自己充满逆境的童年转变为各种事业的平台，也越来越多地转变为自己发展的平台。后来，在服务员们正把主菜的餐具拿下时，大厅前方出现了一张显眼的空椅子。
“Ronan Farrow had to leave,” the M.C. announced. “He’s going to be on ‘Morning Joe’ tomorrow.”
晚餐主持人说，“罗南·法罗不得不告辞。他明天要上‘早安，乔’(Morning Joe)的节目。”