KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Australia and Malaysia led an intensified multinational search on Monday for the remains of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in the southern Indian Ocean and prepared to deploy a submersible device to detect any pings from the aircraft’s flight data recorders, or black boxes, only days before their batteries are expected to die.
马来西亚吉隆坡——周一，澳大利亚和马来西亚带领多个国家在南印度洋海域对马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班的残骸展开了紧张搜寻，并且打算使用一个水下设备来探测该飞机的飞行数据记录器（黑匣子）发出的ping信号，黑匣子的电池将在几天后用尽。
But in contending with a revised search area the size of Poland, there was no immediate indication the searchers were any closer to finding traces of the aircraft or its 239 passengers and crew members. The plane has now been missing for more than three weeks.
但是，尽管人们在与波兰面积相当的新搜索区进行了努力搜寻，目前仍没有明显迹象表明搜索人员取得了进展，有望找到飞机或机上239名乘客及机组成员留下的痕迹。目前，飞机已失踪超过三周。
Although frustrations and costs have grown, Malaysian and Australian officials asserted they would keep searching indefinitely.
人们越来越沮丧，搜索成本也越来越高，尽管如此，马来西亚和澳大利亚官员还是声称，他们会继续进行无限期的搜寻。
Malaysia has been under increasing pressure, particularly from relatives of Chinese passengers on the March 8 Kuala Lumpur-to-Beijing flight, to produce evidence of the plane’s fate. Most of the passengers were Chinese.
马来西亚面临的压力越来越大，各方要求他们提供关于飞机命运的证据。这架飞机于3月8日从吉隆坡飞往北京，飞机上的乘客大多为中国人，马来西亚的压力也主要来自中国乘客的亲属。
“We understand that it has been a difficult time for all the families, and we appreciate that many families want to see physical evidence before they will accept that MH370 ended in the south Indian Ocean,” Hishammuddin Hussein, Malaysia’s defense minister, said at a news conference here.
马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)在本地的新闻发布会上说，“我们知道，对于所有亲属而言，这都是一段难熬的日子，我们也理解，很多亲属都希望看到物证，之后才能接受MH370终结于南印度洋的事实。”
“We will continue with all our efforts to find MH370,” he said. “This is a promise that Malaysia intends to keep.”
“我们将继续不遗余力地寻找MH370，”他说。“马来西亚会信守这个承诺。”
Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia, whose country has been coordinating the search in the Indian Ocean, said that he was not considering ending Australian participation.
当天早些时候，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)表示，他不打算结束澳大利亚的参与。澳大利亚一直在协调印度洋的搜索工作。
“We can keep searching for quite some time to come,” he said.
他说，“我们还将继续搜索很长一段时间。”
Ten planes and 11 ships were ordered to scour the latest search area, about 1,100 miles west of Perth, Australia. The Australian defense minister, David Johnston, said about 100 air personnel and 1,000 sailors were in the zone.
目前，共有10架飞机和11艘船在奉命搜索最新的搜索区域，该区域位于澳大利亚珀斯以西约1100英里（1770公里）处。澳大利亚国防部长戴维·约翰斯顿(David Johnston)说，该区域目前约有100名空中搜索人员和1000名海上搜索人员。
Additional ships were en route, expected to arrive within days, including an Australian naval vessel, the Ocean Shield, equipped to detect the pings of the plane’s data and cockpit voice recorders, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, the government agency coordinating the search.
协调搜索行动的政府机构澳大利亚海事安全局表示，其他一些船只也在途中，预计将于几天内到达，其中包括澳大利亚海军舰艇“海洋盾”(Ocean Shield)，船上配有能够探测飞机数据记录器和驾驶舱录音机ping信号的仪器。
Capt. Mark Matthews, a supervisor of a team from the United States Navy that is involved in the search, said the effectiveness of the detection equipment would depend on “how effective we are at reducing that search area.”
美国海军一支搜索队伍的负责人、海军上校马克·马修斯(Mark Matthews)说，探测装置的有效性将取决于“我们能否有效缩小搜索区域”。
Captain Matthews said the so-called pinger locator, towed behind the ship, was a batwing-shaped device with a microphone that could pick up signals from Flight 370’s data recorders.
马修斯上校说，所谓的ping信号探测器是拖在船尾的，是一个形似蝙蝠翼的设备，带有一个能探测370航班数据记录器信号的麦克风。
The submersible can be deployed to map a debris field on the ocean floor using sonar, and then to use a camera to provide what Captain Matthews called “a full mosaic” of the debris field.
这台水下设备能用声纳绘出海床上碎片所在区域的地图，再用照相机做出马修斯上校所说的碎片区域“全景拼图”。
But the ping detector’s utility, in the absence of more specific information about the location of the wreckage, is doubtful. The device will be towed at an average speed of about three miles per hour, Captain Matthews said, and the submersible moves roughly three and a half miles per hour.
但马修斯上校表示，在获得关于残骸位置的更确切信息之前，ping探测器的作用还值得怀疑。轮船将拖着这台水下装置以每小时约3英里（约合4.8公里）的平均速度前行，装置的行进速度大约是每小时3.5英里。
“Nothing is fast in underwater search,” Captain Matthews said.
马修斯上校说，“进行水下搜索时，什么都快不了。”
Searchers say there is no time to waste: The pinger locator will be ineffective once the batteries powering the flight data recorders die, which is expected to happen next week.
搜索人员说，绝不能再有任何拖延：一旦驱动黑匣子的电池耗尽，ping信号探测器就会失去作用，而电池预计将在下周耗尽。
Mr. Hishammuddin said the Malaysian prime minister, Najib Razak, would travel to Pearce Air Force Base in Australia on Wednesday to thank the multinational force participating in the search and to view the efforts.
希沙姆丁表示，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)将于周三前往澳大利亚皮尔斯空军基地(Pearce Air Force Base)，向参与搜索行动的多国力量表示感谢，同时视察相关工作。
Since Friday, when the search zone was shifted from an area about 700 miles south, aircraft have made daily sightings of floating objects. On closer inspection by crews on the ships, none of the items have been linked to the missing plane, a Boeing 777-200.
上周五，有关方面把搜索区域北移了大约700英里，自那时以来，飞机每天都会观察到漂浮物体。近距离查看之后，机组人员发现这些物体都与失联的那架波音777-200无关。
Two planes flying over the zone on Sunday spotted what Mr. Hishammuddin called “potential objects.” A ship in the area was sent to the spot on Monday to retrieve them, he said.
周日，两架飞越该区域的飞机发现了希沙姆丁所谓的“潜在物体”。希沙姆丁表示，周一，一艘位于该海域的船只已奉命去现场取回物体。