HOUSTON — Even after Justice Antonin Scalia did not respond to a knock at the door of his suite at the Cibolo Creek Ranch at 8:30 a.m. on Saturday, John B. Poindexter, the property’s owner, thought little of it.
休斯顿——周六早上8点半，约翰·B·波因德克斯特(John B. Poindexter)敲响最高法院大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Justice Antonin)在席博罗溪牧场(Cibolo Creek Ranch)的房门，但里面无人回应。那时牧场的主人波因德克斯特并没有在意。
Perhaps the 79-year-old was attending to Supreme Court business, or simply did not wish to be disturbed during his weekend at the remote ranch in West Texas. It was less than two hours later, when Mr. Poindexter tried again, that he found Justice Scalia’s body.
或许这位79岁的老人正在处理最高法院的事务，又或许他只是在德克萨斯州西部的这座偏远牧场度周末时，不想被人打扰。不到两个小时之后，波因德克斯特又一次敲门，发现的却是斯卡利亚大法官的遗体。
Justice Scalia had no pulse and was clearly dead, Mr. Poindexter recalled in an interview on Sunday.
波因德克斯特在周日接受采访时回忆，那时斯卡利亚已经没有了脉搏，显然已经去世。
“His hands were sort of almost folded on top of the sheets,” said Mr. Poindexter, a manufacturing executive from Houston. “The sheets weren’t rumpled up at all.”
“他的双手微微蜷在毯子上面，”波因德克斯特说。“毯子完全没有乱。”波因德克斯特是休斯顿的一位制造业高管。
He added, “It was just like he was taking a nap. He just went to sleep and didn’t wake up.”
他又说，“他仿佛只是打个盹，睡了一觉就没再起来。”
Justice Scalia had arrived at the 30,000-acre ranch on Friday to participate in one of the weekend gatherings that Mr. Poindexter hosts a few times each year. Justice Scalia and Mr. Poindexter had met just once, in Washington, and the justice had traveled to Texas after a friend of Mr. Poindexter’s suggested inviting him, the ranch owner said.
周五的时候，斯卡利亚大法官来到这座有3万英亩（约合1.2万公顷）的牧场，参加波因德克斯特举行的周末聚会。这样的聚会每年他会组织若干次。牧场主波因德克斯特说，之前斯卡利亚与他只在华盛顿碰过一次面，他的一个朋友提议邀请斯卡利亚之后，大法官就来到了德州。
In the day leading up to his death, Justice Scalia was “very congenial, very convivial,” Mr. Poindexter said, as the party roamed the property and some hunted for quail. Justice Scalia did not participate in the hunt, but he did observe.
波因德克斯特说，在他去世前一天，斯卡利亚“十分愉快，十分热情友善”。聚会的人群在牧场里游荡，一些人还打了鹌鹑。斯卡利亚没有参与打猎，不过他的确从旁观看来着。
At 9 p.m., after the conclusion of a cocktail reception and dinner, Justice Scalia, who had flown to Texas early Friday, told Mr. Poindexter he was going to turn in for the night, and went to the property’s presidential suite.
晚上9点，鸡尾酒招待会和晚餐结束后，周五早间飞到德州的斯卡利亚告诉波因德克斯特说，要回去休息了。于是他前往了这座牧场的总统套房。
The next morning, Justice Scalia did not appear for breakfast, and Mr. Poindexter went to look for him.
第二天早上，斯卡利亚没有出门吃早饭，波因德克斯特过去找他。
“I knocked on the door loudly,” he said. “I had him in a very large room — a suite — and I thought he might be in the bathroom.”
“我很大声地敲门，”他说。“我让他住了一间很大的屋子，是间套房，所以我想他可能在卫生间。”
Just after 11 a.m., after a morning of activities, Mr. Poindexter and a friend of Justice Scalia’s tried the door again, again to no answer. Once they entered the spacious room, it took no medical training, Mr. Poindexter said, to recognize that Justice Scalia was dead.
刚过上午11点，在一早上的活动之后，波因德克斯特和斯卡利亚大法官的一个朋友再次试着敲门，又没有回应。波因德克斯特说，当他们进入宽敞的套房之后，不需要医学训练都能看出斯卡利亚去世了。
Mr. Poindexter called a hospital and, without identifying Justice Scalia, reported what had happened.
波因德克斯特给一家医院打电话，告知发生了什么，但没有说明死者是谁。
Within hours, Justice Scalia’s death set off an intense round of calls to local and federal officials as they tried to navigate the protocols associated with the death of a sitting Supreme Court justice.
斯卡利亚大法官的死讯传出几小时内，地方和联邦官员接到了数不胜数的电话，因为他们试图准确地安排最高法院在任大法官去世后的礼节和规程。
Sometime after 3 p.m., the Rev. Mike Alcuino of the Santa Teresa de Jesús Church in Presidio arrived at the ranch to administer the last rites to Justice Scalia, a Catholic.
下午3点过后，位于普雷西迪奥的耶稣的圣德兰教堂(Santa Teresa de Jesús Church)神父迈克·阿尔库诺(Rev. Mike Alcuino)来到牧场，为身为天主教徒的斯卡利亚大法官举行最后的仪式。
“It was just proper to call in a Catholic priest for the last rites,” Father Alcuino said on Sunday. He said that he had been alone with Justice Scalia when he performed the rites, which took about 10 minutes.
“叫一位天主教司铎来进行最后的仪式是很妥帖的，”阿尔库诺神父周日说。他表示，在仪式之前，他曾与斯卡利亚大法官的遗体单独待了大约10分钟。
In Presidio County, which has fewer than 7,000 residents, the two justices of the peace were busy when they learned of a death at the ranch that required an inquest.
在居民不足7000人的普雷西迪奥县，两位治安法官正在忙碌时，得知牧场上有一宗死亡案例需要尸检。
“No identity or clue was given that this was not another body found by hunters in the desert,” David Beebe, a justice of the peace, wrote in an email Saturday night, after he learned of Justice Scalia’s death.
治安法官戴维·毕博(David Beebe)周六晚间在电子邮件中写道，在得知这一死讯后，“对方并没有透露身份或其他线索，没有迹象表明这一次不同于猎人们在荒漠上发现了一具尸体。”
Judge Beebe said that County Judge Cinderela Guevera had ultimately pronounced Justice Scalia dead by telephone and “ruled it natural causes based on credible information.” She could not be reached for comment.
毕博法官说，县法官辛德瑞拉·格韦拉(Cinderela Guevera)最终通过电话宣布了斯卡利亚大法官的死讯，并且“依据可靠信息认定系死于自然原因”。本报无法联络到格韦拉法官置评。