In Spain, where there was a debt crisis just two years ago, investors are so eager to buy the government’s bonds that they recently accepted the lowest interest rates since 1789.
就在两年前，西班牙还处在债务危机中。但现在，投资者对购买政府债券如此急切，以至于在前不久接受了1789年以来的最低利率。
In New York, the Art Deco office tower at One Wall Street sold in May for $585 million, only three months after the going wisdom in the real estate industry was that it would sell for more like $466 million, the estimate in one industry tip sheet.
在纽约，华尔街1号那栋装饰艺术风格的办公楼在5月卖出了5.85亿美元（约合36亿元人民币）。仅三个月前，一份行业内情通报根据房地产业行情估计，它的售价应该在4.66亿美元。
In France, a cable-television company called Numericable was recently able to borrow $11 billion, the largest junk bond deal on record — and despite the risk usually associated with junk bonds, the interest rate was a low 4.875 percent.
在法国，一家名为Numericable的有线电视公司前不久借到了110亿美元，这是记录在案的最大一笔垃圾债券交易——而且尽管垃圾债券通常都和风险相连，这笔贷款的利率还是低至4.875%。
Welcome to the Everything Boom — and, quite possibly, the Everything Bubble. Around the world, nearly every asset class is expensive by historical standards. Stocks and bonds; emerging markets and advanced economies; urban office towers and Iowa farmland; you name it, and it is trading at prices that are high by historical standards relative to fundamentals. The inverse of that is relatively low returns for investors.
欢迎进入全面繁荣期——很有可能也是全面泡沫期。以历史标准来看，全世界几乎每个资产类别都很昂贵。股票和债券；新兴市场和先进经济体；城里的办公楼和艾奥瓦州的农田；但凡你想得到的都是这样，以历史标准来看，它们的交易价格相对基本面都偏高。与此相反的是投资者获得的收益相对较低。
The phenomenon is rooted in two interrelated forces. Worldwide, more money is piling into savings than businesses believe they can use to make productive investments. At the same time, the world’s major central banks have been on a six-year campaign of holding down interest rates and creating more money from thin air to try to stimulate stronger growth in the wake of the financial crisis.
这种情况的根源是两股相关联的力量。世界范围内，流向储蓄的资金，比企业认为能用来进行有效投资的资金多。与此同时，世界主要央行已经持续六年压低利率，凭空生出更多资金，以尝试在金融危机后刺激更强劲的增长。
“We’re in a world where there are very few unambiguously cheap assets,” said Russ Koesterich, chief investment strategist at BlackRock, one of the world’s biggest asset managers, who spends his days scouring the earth for potential opportunities for investors to get a better return relative to the risks they are taking on. “If you ask me to give you the one big bargain out there, I’m not sure there is one.”
“我们所处的世界里，明确的廉价资产少之又少，”全世界最大的资产管理机构之一贝莱德(BlackRock)的首席投资策略师孔睿思(Russ Koest)说。“你要问我什么地方可以捡到大便宜，我都不确定有没有这种东西。”他把自己的时间用在了为投资者四处寻找潜在机会，以便让他们获得相对其承担的风险而言更理想的回报。
But frustrating as the situation can be for investors hoping for better returns, the bigger question for the global economy is what happens next. How long will this low-return environment last? And what risks are being created that might be realized only if and when the Everything Boom ends?
现在的情况让希望获得更好回报的投资者感到失望，但全球经济面临的更大的问题是，接下来会发生什么。这种低回报的环境会持续多长时间？现在正在形成什么风险？只有当这个全面繁荣期结束时，这些风险才会展现出来。
Safe assets, like United States Treasury bonds, have been offering investors paltry returns for years, ever since the global financial crisis. What has changed in the last two years is that risky assets, like stocks, junk bonds, real estate and emerging market bonds, have also joined the party.
自全球金融危机以来，安全的资产，比如美国财政部发行的债券，多年来为投资者提供的一直是可以忽略不计的回报。过去两年里出现变化的是，股票、垃圾债券、房地产市场和新兴市场的债券等风险资产也加入了这一阵营。
Want to buy shares of American companies? At the current level of the Standard & Poor’s 500 index, every dollar invested in stocks buys you about 5.5 cents of corporate earnings, down from 7.4 cents two years ago — and lower than just before the global financial crisis in 2007-8.
想买美国公司的股票？根据当前的标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor’s 500)水平，投进股市的1美元会为你带来约为5.5美分的企业盈利，同两年前的7.4美分相比有所减少——也低于2007到2008年全球金融危机前夕的水平。
Prefer a more solid asset? The price of office and apartment building has risen similarly; office space in central business districts nationwide costs $300 per square foot on average, up from $147 in early 2010, according to Real Capital Analytics. In Manhattan, an investor in an office building can expect rent payments after expenses to add up to only a 4.4 percent return, known as the capitalization rate, lower than even in 2007, the top of the last boom.
喜欢更稳定的资产？办公楼和公寓楼的价格出现了类似的上涨；房地产资本分析公司(Real Capital Analytics)的数据显示，全国中央商务区的办公区平均价格已经从2010年年初的每平方英尺147美元，涨至时下的300美元。在曼哈顿投资办公楼的人可能会发现，扣除开销后的租金总共只会带来4.4%的回报，也就是所谓的资本化率。这个数字甚至低于2007年的水平，那是上个繁荣期的峰顶。
What about overseas investments? Spain and other Southern European countries that were the nexus of the European debt crisis are not the only places where bond rates have plummeted (even Greece was able to issue bonds at favorable rates earlier this year). Emerging markets, which generally have higher interest rates because of higher inflation and less political stability, are offering record low interest rates as well. Bonds issued by the governments of Brazil and Malaysia, for example, are currently yielding only around 4 percent.
海外的投资情况如何？并非只有西班牙及其他欧洲南部的欧债危机中心国家的国债收益率出现了大幅下降（就连希腊今年早些时候也能够以低息发行国债）。由于较高的通胀水平和较低的政治稳定性，新兴市场国家的利率一般更高，但如今，这些国家的利率都降到了前所未有的水平。例如，巴西和马来西亚政府目前的国债收益率仅为4%左右。
The high valuations now aren’t as extreme as those of stocks in 2000 or houses in 2006; rather, what is new is that it applies to such a breadth of assets. In 2000, when the stock market was, with hindsight, a speculative bubble, other assets like bonds, emerging market investments and real estate looked reasonable.
目前的高定价并没有2000年的股市或是2006年的楼市那样严重；但前所未有的是，如此多种类的资产都是如此。在2000年，股市是一个投机泡沫——这是我们事后认识到的，当时，债券、新兴市场投资和房地产等其他资产看起来都是合理的。
The Everything Boom brings obvious economic risks. In the most pleasant outcome, global economic growth would pick up, causing today’s expensive assets to begin looking more reasonably priced. But other outcomes are also possible, including busts in one or more markets that could create a new wave of economic ripples in a world economy still not fully recovered from the last crisis.
普遍繁荣带来了明显的经济风险。最令人愉快的后果是，全球经济增长会提速，让目前昂贵的资产定价开始显得更加合理。但也可能产生其他后果，包括一个或多个市场崩盘，这可能使尚未彻底摆脱上次危机的世界经济，遭遇新一波连锁反应。