The sun had dipped on the Grandstand court at the United States Open match between Sam Querrey, the American, and Adrian Mannarino, a Frenchman, so the lights were on. A soft breeze riffled through the trees, whose branches poked over the low bleachers. Noise drifted from Armstrong Stadium next door. The crowd in the Grandstand returned the favor with regular explosions after every point.
大看台球场(Grandstand)上，光线开始黯淡下来。美国网球公开赛正在这里进行，现在是美国选手山姆·奎雷伊(Sam Querrey)与法国选手阿德里安·马纳里诺(Adrian Mannarino)之间的比赛，场地里的灯打开了。一阵微风吹过树梢，枝条对着低矮的看台指指戳戳。隔壁阿姆斯特朗体育场的喧哗声清晰可闻，大看台球场的观众们还以每球之后例行爆发的欢呼。  
The Grandstand is a ramshackle place, an architectural goiter stuck onto Armstrong. The configuration makes it a natural amphitheater, projecting cheers by fans, up to 6,000 of them, who sit, many uncomfortably on backless plastic benches, on top of the action.
大看台球场是个破破烂烂的地方，有如附着在阿姆斯特朗体育场旁边的囊肿。建筑结构使它成了一个天然的圆型剧场，反射最多可达6000名球迷的欢呼，他们大都坐在没有靠背、很不舒服的塑料长椅上，俯瞰着赛事。
By the fourth set, fans were hanging from the rafters, but those rafters, along with the rest of the Grandstand, won’t be around much longer. The United States Tennis Association, which operates the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, has won City Council approval to demolish the court and build a new Grandstand on the other end of the center’s grounds, as part of a master plan to improve circulation and add retractable roofs to Armstrong and Arthur Ashe Stadiums. In exchange for taking less than an acre of adjacent park, the tennis association has promised to turn over more than one and a half acres it presently leases and has committed more than $10 million to help with upkeep in the park.
到比赛第四盘，球迷们已经准备着离开座椅，但这些座椅和大看台球场的其余部分也保留不了多久了。 法拉盛草原可乐娜公园的国家网球中心(National Tennis Center)由美国网球协会(The United States Tennis Association) 运营，它获得市议会(City Council)许可，拆除这座球场，在中心场地的另一端建起一座新的大看台球场。这是一个大型计划的一部分，它还包括改善四周的流通性，以及为阿姆斯特朗体育场和阿瑟·阿什体育场(Arthur Ashe Stadium)增盖活动式屋顶。新址占去附近公园不到一英亩的地方，作为补偿，网球协会承诺让出自己名下租借的1.5英亩以上的土地，并出资1000万美元作为公园的维修费用。
According to the plan, the Grandstand is to be torn down after the 2014 Open, with the new version done in time for the 2015 tournament. The tennis association’s hope is to have the entire project finished by 2018.
根据这项计划，大看台球场将在2014年的公开赛之后拆除，新场馆将在2015年巡回赛举办之前建成。网球协会希望整个项目在2018年完成。
The reorganization makes sense. The park and the public will benefit. The success of Court 17, the most recent addition to the grounds, suggests that a new grandstand could turn out well.
整个重建工作很有意义。公园和公众都将从中受益。新增的17号球场的成功，证明新看台可以运行良好。
But all this doesn’t mean the old Grandstand isn’t going to be missed, and that something won’t be lost in a city that has remade Times Square, opened the High Line and groovified Brooklyn.
但这并不意味着旧的大看台球场会被遗忘，在这座曾经重建了时报广场、高线公园和更时髦的布鲁克林区的城市里，有些东西是永远不会失去的。
It is the most intimate and exciting place to watch tennis at the Open, beloved by players and fans — all the more so, I suspect, because it is tumbledown, ad hoc and quirky, an urban corner of the site.
美网公开赛深受选手与球迷们青睐，大看台体育场是最亲切、最令人兴奋的观赛地点，我觉得可能因为这里位于都市一角，是一个破败、特殊、离奇的地方。
Wimbledon modernized recently, adding a retractable roof to Centre Court. Idiosyncrasies of the old place, like a water tower, which had been a minor landmark for longtime fans, were swept away.
温布尔登球场最近采取了现代化举措，为中心球场增添了活动房顶。旧场地特有的象征都被一扫而光，比如一座水塔，对于老球迷们来说，它是一个小小的地标。
“They corporatized Wimbledon very effectively without seeming to,” is how Pete Bodo, the veteran tennis writer, described the makeover. “A little ivy goes a very long way.”
资深网球评论家皮特·波多(Pete Bodo)这样评价这次重修：“他们毫不犹豫，很有效率地把温布尔登球场公司化了，但是一件小事会产生很大连锁效应。”
In lieu of Ye Olde English charm, the Open markets New York noise and night life, the rough and tumble of the big city, notwithstanding the spanking white booths promoting merchandise by Tiffany’s and Mercedes and the tourists in tennis outfits, as if ready to play, downing flutes of champagne on the Moet & Chandon Terrace.
美国公开赛虽然没有那种英式魅力，但它的市场价值在于纽约的喧闹与夜生活，大城市的粗犷与混乱——尽管这里有场边推销蒂芙妮与梅赛德斯产品的崭新白色摊位，以及身穿网球服，好像准备打球的游客在酩悦香槟平台(Moet & Chandon Terrace)畅饮香槟。
I overheard a pair of French journalists mock the tournament’s current advertising slogan, “Nothing Beats Being Here.”
我碰巧听到有两个法国记者嘲笑美国巡回赛目前的广告语“一旦在此，别无他求”( Nothing Beats Being Here)。
“Everything beats being here,” one of them said, having just consumed a free lunch in the media lounge.
 “在哪儿都比在这里好，”其中一个人说道；他们刚在媒体饭厅吃完免费午餐。
O.K., it’s true, Flushing isn’t Wimbledon or the Bois de Boulogne, where the French Open is played. But that’s not its ethos, and no place on the grounds embodies better the Open’s gritty nature than the Grandstand.
好吧，是这样，法拉盛不是温布尔登，也不是法国公开赛所在的布洛涅森林。但那些都不是法拉盛的气质，况且没有任何地方比大看台球场更符合美网公开赛那种粗犷的性格。
It was thrown up 35 years ago. Until 1978, the West Side Tennis Club had been the tournament’s home: a modest country club in Forest Hills with green lawns, narrow paths and a finger bowl of a stadium. Fans rubbed shoulders with Rod Laver and Pancho Gonzalez on grounds that bear about as much resemblance to the National Tennis Center as Doubleday Field in Cooperstown, N.Y., does to Yankee Stadium.
大看台球场是在35年前匆匆兴建的。直到1978年，巡回赛的主场仍是西区网球俱乐部(the West Side Tennis Club)——森林山一个小型乡村俱乐部，有绿草坪，狭窄的道路和一个小小的体育场。球迷挤在这里，观看罗德·拉沃(Rod Laver)与潘乔·冈萨雷斯(Pancho Gonzalez)的比赛，这里很像国家网球中心，就像纽约库珀斯顿的双日球场(Doubleday Field)很像扬基体育场一样。
With the move to Flushing Meadows, what had been Singer Stadium, from the 1964 World’s Fair, became Louis Armstrong Stadium, with the Grandstand slapped inelegantly onto the side of it. The whole thing looked makeshift and dated even before Jimmy Conners beat Bjorn Borg in the first Flushing final.
后来巡回赛搬到法拉盛草原公园的辛格体育场(Singer Stadium)，自从1964年世博会后，这里就更名为路易·阿姆斯特朗体育场，大看台球场兀立在一边，一点也不优美。整栋建筑看起来似乎只是临时建筑，甚至从第一次在法拉盛举办的决赛时起就是这样了，那场比赛里，吉米·康诺尔斯(Jimmy Conners)战胜了比约恩·伯格(Bjorn Borg)。
But the place took tennis out of the country club, literally, and while it wasn’t beautiful, it worked, improbably well, like so much of the city, all the more so by comparison with cavernous Arthur Ashe Stadium, which rose in 1997 to capitalize on the sport’s popularity and the profitability of luxury booths.
但就是在这块场地，网球真正走出了乡村俱乐部的世界，虽然这里并不美，但非常实用，而且好得出人意料，就像这座城市的许多方面一样，与宽敞的阿瑟·阿什体育场相比就更是如此。阿瑟·阿什体育场于1997年落成，旨在利用这项广受欢迎的运动，从奢侈品牌的广告位盈利。
Ashe has been an unlovable building, and it’s a pity to add a roof to it now instead of tearing the whole thing down and starting from scratch. But it at least has had the virtue of reinforcing the Grandstand as an insiders’ favorite whose intimacy harks back to the old Forest Hills days. As countless players point out, that intimacy intensifies matches for both them and fans. It is the court where many of the tightest early-round matches unfold. Ashe hosts the blowouts by top seeds.
阿什体育场成了一栋不受人喜爱的建筑，如今没有把它整个拆掉重建，反而为它增添屋顶，真是令人遗憾。但它至少有一个好处，就是令大看台球场愈发成为行家的最爱，在这里，他们总会回忆起森林山亲切的旧时光。无数选手也说，这种亲切感会令选手和球迷都感觉比赛更加精彩。在这块场地上主要举行大赛的前几轮赛事，是竞争最激烈的。阿什体育场则专门承办顶级种子选手的大赛。
The other day, while Querrey was falling to Mannarino (who would fall to Roger Federer on Saturday night in one of those Ashe blowouts), I joined a few fans who had climbed to the top row at Armstrong to look through the railing back down onto the Grandstand. David Ferrer was closing out his fellow Spaniard Roberto Bautista on Armstrong. The view, onto two courts at once, is one of the quirks of the place, exploited by fans who, like players, try to work the angles — the same sort who watched Mets games at Shea Stadium from the No. 7 Willets Point subway station, to avoid paying for tickets.
那天，奎雷伊败给了马纳里诺（马纳里诺又在周六晚上、阿什体育场的大赛中败给罗杰·费德勒[Roger Federer]），后来我和一群球迷一起爬到阿姆斯特朗体育场的最高一排座椅，从那里透过栏杆俯瞰大看台球场。在阿姆斯特朗体育场，大卫·费雷尔(David Ferrer)即将击败自己的西班牙同胞罗伯托·波蒂斯塔(Roberto Bautista)。可以同时看到两座球场是这里的一个奇怪之处，球迷们利用了这一点，和选手选择击球角度一样，选择落座角度，同时观看两场比赛，有点像棒迷在7号线地铁米莱茨点站观看希叶体育场里大都会棒球队的比赛，可以不用买票。
Shea provoked a memoir by an English professor at Hofstra University, Dana Brand, after it was torn down a few years ago. It might seem the least likely stadium to inspire warm reveries — a joyless, windswept wreck and critical piñata by the end — but Mr. Brand, who grew up rooting for the Mets there, noted a basic truth about architecture. Buildings, like cities, are receptacles of shared memory. Stadiums link millions of strangers who retain memories of watching games in them. As Mr. Brand wrote: “People who share these things with me are not entirely strangers, even if I have never seen them before, even if I will never meet them.”
几年前，希叶体育场被拆毁时，霍夫斯特拉大学的戴纳·布朗德(Dana Brand)教授为它撰写了回忆录。希叶体育场可能是最难以激发温暖回忆的体育场了，它是一栋没有欢乐气氛、破破烂烂、暴露在风中的建筑，始终受到各种批评。但布朗德从小就支持大都会棒球队，他注意到关于建筑的一个基本事实：建筑就像城市一样，承载着人们的共同记忆。体育场馆把成百上千万的陌生人联系起来，他们怀有对观赛的共同回忆。布朗德写道：“能与我分享共同事物的人都不是完全的陌生人，就算之前我从来没有见过他们，就算今后我再也不会遇到他们。”
This Open, players, television announcers and veteran tennis watchers have been waxing nostalgic about the Grandstand, anticipating its demise. I caught the commentator, coach and retired player Brad Gilbert dashing out of the Grandstand after Querrey lost to Mannarino. With a brusque wave of his hand, he said the new Grandstand was necessary, that the current layout no longer works.
今年的美国公开赛上，选手们、电视解说员和资深观赛者们知道大看台体育场即将退出历史舞台，都在抒发对它的怀旧之情。在奎雷伊败给马纳里诺之后，解说员、教练和退役选手布拉德·吉尔伯特(Brad Gilbert)冲出大看台球场，我拦住他采访。他生硬地摆着手，说新的大看台球场是有必要的，现在这座球场设施已经不好用了。
Conceded, I said. But won’t you miss the old Grandstand anyway?
我同意，我说，但你就不会怀念老球场吗？
Then he recalled a five-set victory he had there over Michael Stich in 1992, when the crowd pitched in to help. “There were so many other great matches there,” he said, smiling as he described how on even the hottest summer days the Grandstand provided players and fans with shade and a little respite.
然后他回忆了1992年在这里鏖战五盘比赛，战胜迈克尔·斯迪奇(Michael Stich)的往事，球迷的呐喊助威帮了大忙。“这里有过太多的精彩比赛”，就连最炎热的夏日里，大看台球场也能为选手和球迷提供阴凉和休憩，说到这里，他的脸上不禁露出笑容。
For an instant, surrounded by mobs rushing to matches and calling out his name, he was lost in thought.
匆匆赶来观赛的球迷们簇拥着他，呼唤他的名字，有那么一刻，他仿佛有点迷失。
“A lot of memories,” he said.
“有太多回忆了，”他说。