People who keep llamas as pets will readily offer you any number of reasons: Llamas are quiet, they're gentle and affectionate, they don't take a lot of work to maintain and, for outdoor animals, they don't smell bad.
把大羊驼(llama)当宠物的人有无数个理由：大羊驼很安静，性情温和可爱，用不着花太多精力照料，而且作为一种户外动物，它们身上没有难闻的气味。
But it's more than that. Look at a llama and it'll gaze back sympathetically with those huge, beguiling eyes, ears perked up, looking for all the world like it understands you and really cares about your problems.
但是还有更多原因。望着一只大羊驼，它便会以一双迷人的大眼睛充满同情地回望你；竖起的耳朵到处搜寻，仿佛它能够理解你，而且真心关怀你的苦恼。
Most people start with two or three, since llamas are sociable and don't like to live alone. But as Katrina Capasso, a llama owner in Ballston Spa, New York, discovered, “They're like potato chips.” It's hard to stop at just a few. Capasso, 49, received her first llama as a wedding gift from her husband, Gary, in 1990. Now she has 55.
大多数人都是从两三只开始养起，因为大羊驼性喜交际，讨厌孤独。但是大羊驼饲养者，现居纽约州巴尔斯顿·斯帕的卡特琳娜·卡帕索(Katrina Capasso)发现“养大羊驼就像吃薯片一样上瘾”——一旦养了几只就会欲罢不能。1990年，卡帕索女士49岁，丈夫加里送了她一只大羊驼作为结婚纪念日礼物。如今她拥有55只。
That irresistible quality may explain their popularity as pets. A few decades ago, they were almost unheard-of in the United States. Today there are about 115,000 in the U.S., according to the International Lama Registry.
这种令人难以抗拒的特质或许可以解释它们为何成为受欢迎的宠物。几十年前，它们在这个国家还闻所未闻。如今，根据国际美洲驼属动物登记中心(International Lama Registry)的数据，美国国内已经有11.5万只大羊驼。这个机构一直在为大羊驼做血统记录。
The population of alpacas, their smaller cousins bred primarily for fleece, is about the same, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. But alpacas are beasts of burden and have a very different gestalt. Do not get a llama owner started on alpacas.
羊驼(alpaca)是大羊驼的近亲，只是个头小一些，最早是用来提供羊驼毛的，根据农业部统计，它在美国的数量和大羊驼差不多。但是羊驼并不是驮畜，性格也非常不同。大羊驼爱好者是不会去养羊驼的。
“Llamas are like dogs: They are your friend,” said Pam Fink, who keeps 13 pet llamas at her home in Georgia and is expecting three babies in August. “Alpacas are more like sheep. They're not going to play with you, not going to be your friend.” (Note: Alpaca people might take issue with this.)
 “大羊驼很像狗，它们是你的朋友，”帕姆·芬克(Pam Fink)说，她住在佐治亚州，养了13只宠物大羊驼，8月即将有3只幼崽诞生。“羊驼有点像羊。它们不会和你玩，不会和你做朋友。”（注：羊驼爱好者对此可能会有不同意见）。
Llama breeders have been known to pay as much as $30,000 for a top-quality male, but a regular pet llama can be had for less than $500. And given the demand for llama fiber, which is highly prized by knitters, you might be able to earn some of that back.
已知有大羊驼饲养者为获得顶尖素质的公驼出价3万美元，但普通的宠物大羊驼只需不到500美元就能拥有。再加上对大羊驼毛的需求（编织厂家提供的收购价和羊驼毛是一样的），说不定还能赚点钱回来。
If you're fortunate enough to live in the right place and you have some outdoor space, as Fink's husband, Jerry, will tell you, “Llamas will steal your heart.”
也就是说，如果你住在曼哈顿，或者其他什么不适合养活物的地方，当然不能养大羊驼。但如果你幸运地居住在适宜的地点，还拥有一些户外空间，芬克女士的丈夫杰里会告诉你：“大羊驼会偷走你的心。”
He and his wife like to spend summer nights sitting on their screened porch, watching the llamas graze. “I refer to them as our walking lawn ornaments,” he said fondly.
他和妻子喜欢夏夜坐在自家带纱窗的门廊，望着大羊驼在外面吃草。“我把它们称为活的草坪装饰品。”
Jerry Fink, 65, a businessman, and his wife, also 65, and a former mortgage broker, got their first three llamas a decade ago. And Pam Fink soon found her calling as a breeder of miniature llamas, a distinct breed about three-quarters the size of standard llamas.
65岁的芬克先生是个商人，他的妻子也是65岁，以前是抵押贷款经纪商。10年前，他们开始豢养三只大羊驼。芬克夫人很快发现自己爱上了一种叫做迷你大羊驼(miniature llamas)的动物，它是普通大羊驼的近亲，个头相当于普通大羊驼的3/4大小。
In the Finks' immaculate suburban house, framed portraits of their pet llamas hang over the fireplace alongside photos of their grandchildren. Another wall is covered with ribbons won at llama shows.
在芬克夫妇一尘不染的郊区宅邸，大羊驼宠物们的肖像装在画框里，和孙子孙女们的照片并排挂在壁炉边。另一面墙上挂满了大羊驼展览上赢回的绶带，这种展览和狗展差不多。
On a recent spring morning, Pam Fink showed a visitor around the house and then gave a tour of the barns where the llamas live, offering a running commentary on their quirks and personalities.
不久前，一个春天的上午，芬克夫人带客人在房子里参观，又带客人去了大羊驼们住的畜栏，简要介绍了一下它们的怪癖和个性。
“This is Dolly,” she said, filling the brown mini-llama's bucket with minerals. “She likes to eat in front of the window.” (Llamas are picky eaters and prefer hay, grass, minerals and grain; some owners say they cost about the same to feed as big dogs.)
 “这是多莉(Dolly)，”她为这头棕色迷你大羊驼的水桶注满矿泉水，“她喜欢在窗前吃东西。”（大羊驼很挑食，喜欢干草、鲜草、矿泉水和谷类；有些饲养者说饮食上的花费和饲养大型犬差不多）。
Cheerio, she said, moving on to a miniature female with a white-and-brown coat, is timid with strangers, “but will follow me around like a puppy dog.”
这是齐里奥(Cheerio)，她走近一头棕色与白色相间的雌性迷你大羊驼，它见到陌生人有点害怕，“但它会像小狗一样围着你转。”
As she spoke, Fink touched each of the llamas, hugging their faces, lifting their feet and fluffing the fur on their haunches, her way of making sure that all of them have daily human contact. “I require my animals to be well mannered,” she said. “They have to walk on a lead, they have to be nice to people, they have to behave.”
芬克夫人一边说，一边抚摸着每一只大羊驼，拥抱它们的头，抬起它们的脚，给它们梳毛，这是为了确保它们每天都能和人接触。“我要求它们彬彬有礼，”她说，“它们得用绳子拴着走路，它们得对人友善，它们要乖乖的。”
Llamas are strictly outdoor animals, and males must be kept separate from females, otherwise they will mate nonstop. In other matters, however, they are very restrained. Owners must check them carefully to see if they are hurt or sick, because llamas are so stoic they seldom complain. If they don't have health problems, they can live for decades.
大羊驼完全是一种户外动物，公驼和母驼必须分开饲养，否则便会不停交配。不过它们在其他方面都非常克制。主人必须细心检查它们有没有生病或受伤，因为大羊驼是一种非常坚韧的动物，很少抱怨。如果没有健康问题，大羊驼的寿命是几十年。
And those stories about spitting, most llama owners will tell you, are exaggerated: Llamas will spit at other llamas to establish social hierarchies, but unless they feel threatened, they rarely spit at people.
有人说大羊驼到处吐口水，不过大多数饲养者都会告诉你，这个说法太夸张了：大羊驼会彼此吐口水，以此确立群体中的等级地位，但除非感觉受到威胁，它们很少对人类吐口水。
“Llamas are intelligent, and they're very curious,” Pam Fink said. “They're standoffish at first, and then they're in your face.”
 “大羊驼非常聪明，非常有好奇心，”芬克夫人说，“它们一开始会有点冷淡，然后就会扑到你脸上来了。”
After feeding and greeting all her llamas, Fink likes to take one for a walk in the woods.
喂完所有大羊驼，和它们一一打过招呼，芬克夫人喜欢带上其中一只到林间散步。
“They're just so calming and enjoyable to be around,” she said. “You can tell them all your secrets and your problems. They know all my likes and dislikes, when I'm mad at my husband and when I'm happy with my husband. They don't tell anyone, they just listen.”
“它们能令人心情平静，有它们陪伴令人心情愉快，”她说，“你可以对它们倾吐秘密和生活中的麻烦。它们知道我所有的喜怒哀乐，我什么时候生老公的气，什么时候又和他在一起很开心。它们不会告诉任何人，只是静静地听着。”
Most people associate llamas with Peru, where they haul packs up the Andes and guard flocks of sheep. In the United States, some llamas do similar kinds of work.
一提起大羊驼，大多数人会想起秘鲁，它们在安第斯山脉上驮运物品，看守羊群。在美国，有些大羊驼也做着类似的工作。
But those that are kept as pets are often treated like members of the family: petted, shampooed and groomed, shuttled to llama shows and trotted out to schools, hospitals and nursing homes, where they spread their special brand of Zen.
但宠物大羊驼们经常得到家庭成员的待遇：爱抚、香波沐浴和梳洗打扮，往来于大羊驼展览之间，被带到专门的学校、医院和护理中心，施展它们广为人知的堪比禅定的放松大法。
Until recently, llamas were hard to come by here. For most of the 20th century, it was illegal to import them because of foot-and-mouth disease; the largest herds were at William Randolph Hearst’s estate in San Simeon, Calif., and the Catskill Game Farm in New York.
直到不久前，大羊驼在美国还难得一见。20世纪的大部分时间里，进口大羊驼是非法的，因为它们会传播口蹄疫；加利福尼亚州圣西蒙的威廉·伦道夫·赫斯特(William Randolph Hearst)的庄园以及纽约的卡兹奇猎庄是美国两处最大的大羊驼饲养群。
That all changed in the 1970s, when Kay and Richard Patterson, a couple who bred Arabian horses, began a llama breeding program on their ranch in Oregon. Among the offspring of that program were notable llamas like Dr. Doolittle, whose heavy white fleece produced 17 pounds of fiber when shorn and whose descendants are prizewinning llamas today. His name is still spoken with reverence in the llama community.
70年代，这一情况发生了变化，饲养阿拉伯马的凯与理查德·帕特森(Kay and Richard Patterson)夫妇开始在俄勒冈自家的牧场培育大羊驼。他们的培育计划中产出了一些著名的大羊驼，比如“杜莱特尔博士”(Dr. Doolittle)，它有一身浓密的白毛，剪毛时产出了17磅驼毛，它的后代至今还在大羊驼竞赛中拿奖。它的名字在大羊驼界仍被满怀敬意地提起。
As Richard Snyder, a retired corporate executive from Manhattan, said, “He left an indelible mark.”
正如曼哈顿的退休公司经理理查·斯尼德(Richard Snyder)所说，“它留下了不可磨灭的印记。”
Mr. Snyder, 73, bought a 70-acre farm in Milford, Pa., in 1985, as a country retreat. A few years later, he got three llamas. Now he has nearly 60. He not only breeds them, but also uses their manure to fertilize his vegetable gardens, which supply the restaurants at the Hotel Fauchère, a boutique hotel he owns nearby.
斯尼德现年73岁，1985年在宾夕法尼亚的米尔福德置下一处70公顷的农场，作为乡村别墅。几年后，年近60的他得到了三只大羊驼。 饲养它们之余，他还用它们的粪便给菜地施肥，产出的蔬菜又供给他在附近拥有的精品酒店——弗歇尔酒店(Hotel Fauchère)的各个餐厅。
“I can’t envision life without llamas,” he said.
“我无法想象没有大羊驼的生活，”他说。
Llamas are generally quiet, but that doesn't mean they don't make any noise. When a male is interested in a female, or mating, he makes a noise that sounds a bit like gargling. (Llama people call this an orgle.) Female llamas make clicking sounds. And all llamas hum; in particular, mothers hum to their babies, which hum back.
大羊驼一般很安静，但也不是绝对不会发出任何噪声。雄性大羊驼求偶或交配时会发出有点像漱口的声音（大羊驼饲养者把这叫做“orgle”）。雌性大羊驼会发出“咔哒咔哒”的声音。所有的大羊驼都会哼叫，特别是母亲会对幼崽哼叫，幼崽也以哼叫作答。
It's part of the bonding process, said Susan Morgan, 54, a home-care nurse in Hastings, Minnesota, who breeds miniature llamas with her husband, George, 56, an engineer. “They recognize each other by the hum,” she said. Two months after one of her females gave birth, Morgan said, they were still humming at each other.
这是在培养感情——54岁的苏珊·摩根(Susan Morgan)说，她是一位家庭护士，现居明尼苏达州海斯廷斯，她和丈夫，现年56岁的工程师乔治一起饲养迷你大羊驼。“它们能通过哼叫声辨认彼此，”她说。她有一只雌性大羊驼生下幼崽，两个月大的幼崽还在和母亲互相哼叫。
Her husband said he gets a lot of questions about it. “People come up to me and ask, `Why are the llamas humming?”' he said. “And I'll say, `Because they don't know the words.”'
她的丈夫说人们对此有很多疑问。“人们经常来问我：‘大羊驼为什么哼哼唧唧的？’”他说。“我会说：‘因为它们不会说话。’”
It's a curious behavior, but one that most people find soothing.
这是一种充满好奇心的行为，不过大多数人都认为这种行为让人放轻松。
Pam Fink has a cat and two Great Pyrenees dogs, but it is her llamas, she said, that offer her the most comfort. “When I can't take people anymore, I go out to the barn,” she said. “I can just feel my heart rate go down. They have all of the good things about dogs, but none of the hyperness.”
芬克女士还养了一只猫，两只大比利牛斯犬，但她说，能带给她最大安慰的还要算是大羊驼。“当我再也无法忍受人类，我就到畜栏去，感觉自己的心跳慢慢平静下来了。它们拥有狗类的全部优点，却不像狗那样容易亢奋，”她说。
So it should come as no surprise that some llamas dispense that comfort professionally. Ambassador llamas visit schools, churches and libraries; therapy llamas spend time with the sick, elderly and disabled. And at some llama shows, there is a category called public relations, in which a llama's ability to offer solace is evaluated through tasks like lowering its head to greet someone in a wheelchair.
所以有些大羊驼专门提供安慰服务，这也不足为奇了。大羊驼大使会访问学校、教堂与图书馆；让大羊驼陪伴病人、老年人和残疾人已经成为一种治疗法。有些大羊驼展会上专门有个项目叫“公共关系”，让大羊驼完成低头向坐轮椅的人致意之类的任务，以此评估它们向人类提供安慰的能力。
That capacity, some believe, stems from an innate intuition. Robin H. Turell, 55, a former special education teacher who breeds llamas in Cypress, Texas, said: “Llamas have an amazing sixth sense. They are very good with people with special needs.”
有些人认为这种能力是它们的本能。大羊驼饲养者罗宾·H·特里尔(Robin H. Turell)55岁，是一位前任特殊教育教师，现居得克萨斯州赛普里斯，他说：“大羊驼拥有惊人的第六感。它们能和需要特别照顾的人愉快相处。”
Dr. Jane Rudd, a physician in Duluth, Minn., tells the story of a particularly sensitive llama, named Amigo, that she used to take to visit schools. After one long morning she and Amigo spent with some schoolchildren, a teacher asked if she could bring in one last group, the special-needs students. “There were probably 8 or 10 noisy, awkwardly moving little kids, and one was in a wheelchair,” Dr. Rudd recalled. “He had really high special needs.”
简·拉德(Jane Rudd)是一位内科医生，现居明尼苏达州德卢斯，她说起艾米戈(Amigo)——一只感情特别丰富的大羊驼的故事，她以前常常带它去学校访问。整个漫长的上午，她和艾米戈都和学生们一起度过，一个老师问她能不能带着它再去看最后一群需要特别照顾的学生。“大概有8到10个吵吵闹闹，行动笨拙的小孩，其中一个坐着轮椅，”拉德医生回忆，“他的确特别需要照顾。”
Amigo perked up and led her straight to the boy in the wheelchair. “He laid his head in this little guy’s lap,” she said. “He just knew, ‘This is someone who needs me.’ ”
艾米戈（那只感情丰富的大羊驼——编注）抬起头来，领着她径直走向那个轮椅上的男孩。“它把头放在那个小家伙膝盖上，”她说。“它知道，‘这个人需要我。’”
Ms. Capasso, the llama owner in Ballston Spa, N.Y., has had similar experiences. She occasionally makes public appearances with the friendliest of her 55 llamas. (Only 35 are her pets, she is quick to note; the others she boards for local families.)
纽约州巴尔斯顿·斯帕的大羊驼饲养者卡帕索女士也有类似的经历，她偶尔会带着自己55只大羊驼中最友善的几只在公共场合出现（她指出，这些大羊驼中，只有35只是自己的宠物，其他都是她替附近的家庭寄养的）。
Recently, she brought three to the Saratoga Springs library, where they were greeted by about 100 children and parents. Hope, Cinnamon and Ben, three of her best behaved llamas, stood calmly, without getting spooked, as the crowd milled around them.
最近，她带了其中三只去萨拉托加泉图书馆，受到100多个孩子和家长们的欢迎。霍普(Hope)、西纳蒙(Cinnamon)和本(Ben)是她最乖的三只大羊驼，人们围着它们团团转，它们只是安静地站在那里，毫不惊慌。
Hope “is really, really calm and good with kids, or just anyone,” Ms. Capasso said, while Cinnamon is “very regal” and “will actually take a carrot out of a person’s mouth even if he doesn’t know them.”
霍普“真的非常非常镇静，对孩子们非常好，其实它对所有人都很好，”卡帕索女士说，而西纳蒙“有帝王风范”，“甚至愿意和人嘴对嘴地吃胡萝卜，就算它根本不认识对方。”
And Ben? “Ben is one of the best behaved llamas I’ve ever met,” Ms. Capasso said. He is also big on humming.
那本呢？“本是我生平所见最乖的大羊驼，”卡帕索女士说，它特别擅长哼叫。
“He hummed a lot at the library,” she said.
 “它在图书馆里哼了半天，”她说。
The children must have thought he was happy. Llamas often give that impression. But as Ms. Capasso said, “That probably meant he was tired and wanted to go home.”
孩子们肯定觉得它很开心，大羊驼经常给人这种印象。但卡帕索女士说，“这其实可能意味着它累了，想回家了。