FOR the past two years, my colleagues and I have been training dogs to go in an M.R.I. scanner — completely awake and unrestrained. Our goal has been to determine how dogs’ brains work and, even more important, what they think of us humans.
在过去的两年里，我和同事们一起训练狗在意识完全清醒且肢体无任何拘束的情况下接受磁共振(MRI)扫描仪的检查。我们的研究目标是，明确狗的脑部是如何工作的，以及更重要的，它们对我们人类有些什么样的看法。
Now, after training and scanning a dozen dogs, my one inescapable conclusion is this: dogs are people, too.
迄今为止，我们已经训练了十几只狗，并对它们一一进行了扫描。扫描的结果不可避免地导向了这么一个结论：狗“也是人”。
Because dogs can’t speak, scientists have relied on behavioral observations to infer what dogs are thinking. It is a tricky business. You can’t ask a dog why he does something. And you certainly can’t ask him how he feels. The prospect of ferreting out animal emotions scares many scientists. After all, animal research is big business. It has been easy to sidestep the difficult questions about animal sentience and emotions because they have been unanswerable.
由于狗不会说话，科学家们过去一直依靠观察它们的行为来推断它们在想些什么。这是个相当棘手的工作。你总不能去问一只狗：你为什么会做这件事？当然也没法问它：嗨，你感觉如何？但现在，我们将可能对动物的情感展开探索，这一研究前景令不少科学家有些恐慌。毕竟，动物研究是一件大事情。人们曾经可以轻易地规避跟动物的感知能力和情绪有关的诸多难题，因为这些问题根本无法得到回答。
Until now.
但如今不同了。
By looking directly at their brains and bypassing the constraints of behaviorism, M.R.I.’s can tell us about dogs’ internal states. M.R.I.’s are conducted in loud, confined spaces. People don’t like them, and you have to hold absolutely still during the procedure. Conventional veterinary practice says you have to anesthetize animals so they don’t move during a scan. But you can’t study brain function in an anesthetized animal. At least not anything interesting like perception or emotion.
磁共振扫描可以直接观察狗的脑部，告诉我们关于狗内在状态的信息，这就摆脱了行为心理学研究的束缚。不过，磁共振扫描需要在噪音很大的密闭空间中进行，而且，在扫描过程中，你必须保持绝对静止。人们不喜欢这种感觉。传统的兽医执业经验表明，要对动物进行同样的操作，必须对动物进行麻醉，才能避免它们在扫描过程中乱动。但如果动物已经被麻醉，你就没法研究它的脑功能了——至少没法研究像感知或情感这类有趣的课题。
From the beginning, we treated the dogs as persons. We had a consent form, which was modeled after a child’s consent form but signed by the dog’s owner. We emphasized that participation was voluntary, and that the dog had the right to quit the study. We used only positive training methods. No sedation. No restraints. If the dogs didn’t want to be in the M.R.I. scanner, they could leave. Same as any human volunteer.
从一开始，我们就把狗作为人来对待。我们仿照儿童知情同意书给狗也拟定了类似的同意书，差别在于其由狗主人签署。我们强调，参与研究完全出于自愿，狗狗们有权退出。我们只使用了积极的训练方法，不打麻醉剂，也不采取任何束缚措施。如果狗狗不想待在磁共振扫描仪里面，它们随时都可以离开，就像任何人类志愿者一样。
My dog Callie was the first. Rescued from a shelter, Callie was a skinny black terrier mix, what is called a feist in the southern Appalachians, from where she came. True to her roots, she preferred hunting squirrels and rabbits in the backyard to curling up in my lap. She had a natural inquisitiveness, which probably landed her in the shelter in the first place, but also made training a breeze.
我的狗考利(Callie)当仁不让地成为第一个受试者。她是一只我从动物收容所营救出来的瘦小的黑色混种猎犬，在她的家乡阿巴拉契亚山脉南部，人们就称她为“小狗”。天性使然，她对在后院中尽情追逐松鼠和兔子的热情远胜于安静地蜷缩在我的膝上。她天生就充满了好奇心，这可能是她最初沦为收容所居民的原因之一，却也使得对她的训练变得轻而易举。
With the help of my friend Mark Spivak, a dog trainer, we started teaching Callie to go into an M.R.I. simulator that I built in my living room. She learned to walk up steps into a tube, place her head in a custom-fitted chin rest, and hold rock-still for periods of up to 30 seconds. Oh, and she had to learn to wear earmuffs to protect her sensitive hearing from the 95 decibels of noise the scanner makes.
我在我家客厅里弄了个磁共振扫描模拟器，并在我的朋友、驯狗师马克·斯皮瓦克(Mark Spivak)的帮助下，开始教考利进入模拟器。它学会了沿着台阶进入测试舱，将它的头放在可根据受试者进行调整的腮托上，以及在长达30秒的时间内坚持一动不动。对了，她还不得不学会戴耳罩，以保护她灵敏的听觉免受扫描仪发出的高达95分贝的噪音伤害。
After months of training and some trial-and-error at the real M.R.I. scanner, we were rewarded with the first maps of brain activity. For our first tests, we measured Callie’s brain response to two hand signals in the scanner. In later experiments, not yet published, we determined which parts of her brain distinguished the scents of familiar and unfamiliar dogs and humans.
经过几个月的训练，并在真正的磁共振扫描仪上摸索和试错之后，我们收获了满意的回报：第一张狗的脑部活动图谱。在我们的初步测试中，我们在扫描仪中测定了考利的脑部对两种手势的反应。在稍后的实验中（研究报告尚未发表），我们确定了其脑部负责对熟悉或陌生的狗和人类的气味加以区分的部位。
Soon, the local dog community learned of our quest to determine what dogs are thinking. Within a year, we had assembled a team of a dozen dogs who were all “M.R.I.-certified.”
不久，当地的犬类协会了解到我们需要募集狗狗以期解读它们的所思所想。在一年之内，我们已组建了一个由十几只狗组成的队伍，其中每只狗都经过了“磁共振扫描认证”。
Although we are just beginning to answer basic questions about the canine brain, we cannot ignore the striking similarity between dogs and humans in both the structure and function of a key brain region: the caudate nucleus.
虽然我们只是刚刚才开始试图回答有关犬类脑部的基本问题，但不可忽视的是，犬类和人类有一个关键脑区在结构和功能方面均存在惊人的相似，这个脑区就是：尾状核。
Rich in dopamine receptors, the caudate sits between the brainstem and the cortex. In humans, the caudate plays a key role in the anticipation of things we enjoy, like food, love and money. But can we flip this association around and infer what a person is thinking just by measuring caudate activity? Because of the overwhelming complexity of how different parts of the brain are connected to one another, it is not usually possible to pin a single cognitive function or emotion to a single brain region.
尾状核位于脑干和脑皮层之间，富含多巴胺受体。尾状核在人类对喜欢的东西，如食物、爱情和金钱的期待反应中发挥着关键作用。那么，我们能否反过来应用这个相关性，通过测定尾状核的活动来推断某个人的思想？由于脑部不同部位之间的连接极其复杂，一般来说，根本不可能将某一单独的认知功能或情感精确定位到某一单独的脑区。
But the caudate may be an exception. Specific parts of the caudate stand out for their consistent activation to many things that humans enjoy. Caudate activation is so consistent that under the right circumstances, it can predict our preferences for food, music and even beauty.
但尾状核可能是个例外。人们喜欢的许多东西都会令尾状核的特定部分呈现出激活状态，从而使得这些区域在整个脑中格外突出。由于尾状核的这种激活反应始终如一，在适当的环境下，我们可以用它来预测人们对食物、音乐乃至审美的偏好。
In dogs, we found that activity in the caudate increased in response to hand signals indicating food. The caudate also activated to the smells of familiar humans. And in preliminary tests, it activated to the return of an owner who had momentarily stepped out of view. Do these findings prove that dogs love us? Not quite. But many of the same things that activate the human caudate, which are associated with positive emotions, also activate the dog caudate. Neuroscientists call this a functional homology, and it may be an indication of canine emotions.
在对狗的研究中，我们发现，在看到指示食物的手势后，它们尾状核的活动有所增加。在初步的测试中，尾状核也可因熟悉的人的气味，或暂时离开视线的主人返回而激活。那么，这些研究结果是否证明：狗狗爱我们？不完全是这样。但是，很多可激活人类的尾状核的东西（这些东西往往与积极的情感相关）也可以激活狗的尾状核。神经科学家们称这是一种功能同源性，可用于指示犬类的情绪。
The ability to experience positive emotions, like love and attachment, would mean that dogs have a level of sentience comparable to that of a human child. And this ability suggests a rethinking of how we treat dogs.
拥有体验积极情感（如爱和依恋）的能力就意味着狗拥有与人类儿童同等程度的感知能力。而这种能力表明，我们或许需要对我们如何对待狗加以反思。
DOGS have long been considered property. Though the Animal Welfare Act of 1966 and state laws raised the bar for the treatment of animals, they solidified the view that animals are things — objects that can be disposed of as long as reasonable care is taken to minimize their suffering.
很久以来，人们一直把狗当作一种所有物。尽管美国早在1966年就已经出台了《动物福利法》(Animal Welfare Act)，且州法律也提高了对动物待遇的要求，但“动物只是一种物品”这种想法根深蒂固——人们往往认为，只要采取合理的照护措施来减轻它们的痛苦，就可以随意处置这些“物品”。
But now, by using the M.R.I. to push away the limitations of behaviorism, we can no longer hide from the evidence. Dogs, and probably many other animals (especially our closest primate relatives), seem to have emotions just like us. And this means we must reconsider their treatment as property.
但现在，磁共振扫描的使用摆脱了行为心理学的局限性，我们再也不能隐瞒证据——狗（可能还有很多其他动物，尤其是我们的灵长类近亲）似乎与我们一样有七情六欲。这就意味着，我们必须重新考虑仅仅将它们作为所有物来对待是否适当。
One alternative is a sort of limited personhood for animals that show neurobiological evidence of positive emotions. Many rescue groups already use the label of “guardian” to describe human caregivers, binding the human to his ward with an implicit responsibility to care for her. Failure to act as a good guardian runs the risk of having the dog placed elsewhere. But there are no laws that cover animals as wards, so the patchwork of rescue groups that operate under a guardianship model have little legal foundation to protect the animals’ interest.
一种可供选择的方案是，赋予已有神经生物学证据表明其存在积极情感的动物一定程度的人格待遇。许多救援组织已经开始使用“监护人”一词来形容向这些动物提供照护的人们。这个称呼将人类及其“被监护者”通过一种责任的纽带相联系，时时提醒监护人好好照顾他的小狗。如果无法很好地履行监护行为，那么狗就有可能被从他身边带走。只可惜目前尚无相关的法律将动物纳入“被监护者”涵盖的范围，因此上述在监护模式下运转的救援组织的工作还缺乏足够的法律依据来保护动物的权益。
If we went a step further and granted dogs rights of personhood, they would be afforded additional protection against exploitation. Puppy mills, laboratory dogs and dog racing would be banned for violating the basic right of self-determination of a person.
如果我们更进一步，授予狗人格权，它们将获得额外的保护，使其免受残害。“宠物繁殖场”(Puppy mills)节目、实验用犬以及赛犬等都可能被禁止，因为这些活动违反了“个人”自主权。
I suspect that society is many years away from considering dogs as persons. However, recent rulings by the Supreme Court have included neuroscientific findings that open the door to such a possibility. In two cases, the court ruled that juvenile offenders could not be sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. As part of the rulings, the court cited brain-imaging evidence that the human brain was not mature in adolescence. Although this case has nothing to do with dog sentience, the justices opened the door for neuroscience in the courtroom.
在我看来，还要等很多很多年之后，社会才会考虑把狗与人等同视之。然而，美国最高法院(Supreme Court)在最近的裁决中已经开始采纳神经科学研究的结果，为上述可能性敞开了大门。在两个案例中，法院裁定，如果不允许假释，就不能对少年犯判处终身监禁。作为裁决的一部分，法院援引了一些脑部成像证据，这些证据表明，人类的脑部在青春期还不够成熟。虽然这一案例与狗狗的感知能力无关，但它表明法官们从此认可神经科学在法庭中也可以占据一席之地。
Perhaps someday we may see a case arguing for a dog’s rights based on brain-imaging findings.
也许有一天，我们将会看到人们根据脑成像研究结果，就狗狗们的权利展开唇枪舌战。