A FRIEND of mine has a bad habit of narrating his experiences as they are taking place. I tease him for being a bystander in his own life. To be fair, we all fail to experience life to the fullest. Typically, our minds are too occupied with thoughts to allow complete immersion even in what is right in front of us.
我的一位朋友有一个不好的习惯，就是在事情发生的同时叙述自己的体验。我开玩笑，说他是自己生活的旁观者。公平地讲，我们都没能最充分地体验生活。我们的头脑往往被太多思绪占据，无法完全沉浸于哪怕就在眼前的东西。
Sometimes, this is O.K. I am happy not to remember passing a long stretch of my daily commute because my mind has wandered and my morning drive can be done on autopilot. But I do not want to disappear from too much of life. Too often we eat meals without tasting them, look at something beautiful without seeing it. An entire exchange with my daughter (please forgive me) can take place without my being there at all.
有时候，这是没问题的。我乐意不记得日常通勤中度过的大段时间，因为我的思绪会游荡开来，会在早上驱车时进入“自动驾驶”状态。但我并不想太多地从生活中消失。我们常常只是吃饭，而不是品尝美食，对一些美丽的事物视而不见。在完全心不在焉的情况下，我可能就完成了和女儿的整个交流过程（请原谅我）。
Recently, I discovered how much we overlook, not just about the world, but also about the full potential of our inner life, when our mind is cluttered. In a study published in this month’s Psychological Science, the graduate student Shira Baror and I demonstrate that the capacity for original and creative thinking is markedly stymied by stray thoughts, obsessive ruminations and other forms of “mental load.” Many psychologists assume that the mind, left to its own devices, is inclined to follow a well-worn path of familiar associations. But our findings suggest that innovative thinking, not routine ideation, is our default cognitive mode when our minds are clear.
最近，我发现我们忽略了很多东西，不只是关于外部世界，还包括在思绪乱七八糟的时候不能充分挖掘内心世界的潜能。在本月发表于《心理科学》(Psychological Science)的一项研究中，我和研究生希拉·巴罗(Shira Baror)证明了，独特和有创造力的思维能力明显会被杂念、穷思竭虑和其他形式的“思维负荷”阻碍。很多心理学家假定，未加干涉的思维倾向于沿着熟悉的联想那种套路走。但我们的研究结果显示，创意思维而非常规思维，才是我们思维清晰时的默认认知模式。
In a series of experiments, we gave participants a free-association task while simultaneously taxing their mental capacity to different degrees. In one experiment, for example, we asked half the participants to keep in mind a string of seven digits, and the other half to remember just two digits. While the participants maintained these strings in working memory, they were given a word (e.g., shoe) and asked to respond as quickly as possible with the first word that came to mind (e.g., sock).
在一系列的实验中，我们给参与者布置了一项自由联想的任务，同时给他们的思维能力施加不同程度的负荷。比如，在一项实验里，我们要求半数的参与者记住一串七位数，另一半则只需记住两位数。在参与者运用短期记忆记住这些数字串的同时，我们又给他们提了一个单词（比如鞋），让他们尽可能快地说出脑子里因之冒出来的第一个词（比如袜子）。
We found that a high mental load consistently diminished the originality and creativity of the response: Participants with seven digits to recall resorted to the most statistically common responses (e.g., white/black), whereas participants with two digits gave less typical, more varied pairings (e.g., white/cloud).
我们发现，比较高的思维负荷会持续降低这一反应的独特性和创意性：需要记住七位数的参与者做出的是统计学上最常见的反应（比如，白/黑），只需记住两位数的参与者给出的则是相对不那么典型、更富于变化的搭配（比如，白/云）。
In another experiment, we found that longer response times were correlated with less diverse responses, ruling out the possibility that participants with low mental loads simply took more time to generate an interesting response. Rather, it seems that with a high mental load, you need more time to generate even a conventional thought. These experiments suggest that the mind’s natural tendency is to explore and to favor novelty, but when occupied it looks for the most familiar and inevitably least interesting solution.
在另一项实验中，我们发现，做出反应的时长与反应的多样性成反比，排除了思维负荷低的参与者不过是花更多时间做出有趣回应的可能性。事实是，如果思维负荷比较高，就算是寻找一个常规的答案，也需要更多时间。这些实验说明，思维的自然倾向是去探索并偏爱新意，但如果负荷过大，它会寻找最熟悉、同时也难免不那么有趣的解决方案。
In general, there is a tension in our brains between exploration and exploitation. When we are exploratory, we attend to things with a wide scope, curious and desiring to learn. Other times, we rely on, or “exploit,” what we already know, leaning on our expectations, trusting the comfort of a predictable environment. We tend to be more exploratory when traveling to a new country, whereas we are more inclined toward exploitation when returning home after a hard day at work.
大体而言，我们大脑的探索和利用活动之间存在一种矛盾。处在探索状态时，我们处理事情的角度广度，好奇心和学习欲望也都比较强。其他时间里，我们则依赖或“利用”已知的东西，依赖我们的预测，信任一种可预测环境的舒适。前往一个没去过的国家旅行时，我们往往更具探索性，而当我们辛苦工作了一天回到家时则更容易处于利用状态。
Much of our lives are spent somewhere between those extremes. There are functional benefits to both modes: If we were not exploratory, we would never have ventured out of the caves; if we did not exploit the certainty of the familiar, we would have taken too many risks and gone extinct. But there needs to be a healthy balance. Our study suggests that your internal exploration is too often diminished by an overly occupied mind, much as is the case with your experience of your external environment.
生命中的许多时间里，我们处于这两个极端之间的某个状态。这两种模式都有其实用的益处：如果不探索，我们人类就永远不会走出洞穴；如果我们不利用熟悉状况的确定性，就会冒太多的险，走向灭绝。只不过，这里需要保持一种健康的平衡。我们的研究显示，你内在的探索太过经常地因思维负荷过多而减少，就像对外部环境的探索一样。
In everyday life, you may find yourself “loading” your mind in various ways: memorizing a list of groceries to buy later at the supermarket, rehearsing the name of someone you just met so you don’t forget it, practicing your pitch before entering an important meeting. There are also, of course, the ever-present wanderings of a normal mind. And there are more pathological, or at least more chronic, sources of mental load, such as the ruminative thought patterns characteristic of stress, anxiety and depression. All these loads can consume mental capacity, leading to dull thought and anhedonia — a flattened ability to experience pleasure.
在日常生活中，你可能会发现自己在以各种方式给思维“施加负荷”：记下生鲜杂货清单，以便晚些时候在超市里采购；多次默念一个刚认识的人的名字，好让自己不会忘记；参加重要的会议之前，反复练习自己的说辞。当然，还有无时无刻的普通思维游荡。另有一些更具病理性，或至少更难根除的思维负荷来源，比如压力、焦虑和抑郁状态下特有的冥思苦想模式。所有这些负荷都会消耗心智，导致思维呆滞和快感缺乏——感受快乐的能力低下。
My birthday gift to myself for the last couple of years has been a week of silence at a vipassana meditation retreat. Being silent for a week, and trying to empty your mind of thought, is not for the faint of heart, but I do wish that everyone could try it at least once. During my first retreat, I wondered how a simple tomato could taste so good, why I did not mind physical discomfort as much, how looking at a single flower for 45 minutes was even possible, let alone so gratifying. My thoughts — when I returned to the act of thinking about something rather than nothing — were fresher and more surprising.
过去几年，我送给自己的生日礼物是在内观冥想隐修地过上一周静默的生活。沉默一周，努力清空自己的思想，不适合内心脆弱的人，不过我的确希望所有人都能至少试一次。第一次去隐修时，我惊奇地发现一个普通的番茄吃起来怎么会那么美味，为什么我不再那么介意身体上的不舒适，自己怎么能单单盯着一朵花看45分钟，而且还如此满心欢喜。当我回归思考一些东西而非什么也不想的状态时，我的想法变得更新鲜，也更让人意外。
It is clear to me that this ancient meditative practice helps free the mind to have richer experiences of the present. Except when you are flying an F-16 aircraft or experiencing extreme fear or having an orgasm, your life leaves too much room for your mind to wander. As a result, only a small fraction of your mental capacity remains engaged in what is before it, and mind-wandering and ruminations become a tax on the quality of your life. Honing an ability to unburden the load on your mind, be it through meditation or some other practice, can bring with it a wonderfully magnified experience of the world — and, as our study suggests, of your own mind.
显然这种古老的冥想实践帮我解放了思维，让它对当下有了更丰富的体味。除了在驾驶F-16战斗机、体验极端的恐惧或经历性高潮时，你的生活中有太多的时间让思维处在游荡状态。结果，只有一小部分心智仍然在参与眼前的事物，走神和沉思变成提高生活质量的负担。培养一种给大脑减负的能力——不管是通过冥想，还是一些别的实践——可以极大地增强你对世界的体验，而且就像我们的研究所显示的，它也会极大丰富你的思维。