The unique Upper East Side townhouse that served as home and muse to the modernist architect Edward Durell Stone, who in 1956 replaced its classic brownstone facade with a wall of windows camouflaged by a then-controversial white concrete grid of interlaced circles and squares, is poised to enter the market at $9.95 million. The home, at 130 East 64th Street, stands out like a snowflake on its tree-lined block between Park and Lexington Avenues; the annual taxes are $52,211.20.
上东区有一座独特的联排别墅，曾是现代主义建筑设计师爱德华·德雷尔·斯通(Edward Durell Stone)的住所，也是他灵感的源泉。1956年，斯通以一整面墙的圆形、方形交织的白色混凝土网格装饰窗，替换了房屋正面的经典褐石外墙，这样的设计在当时还颇有争议。现在，这套房子将以995万美元（约合人民币6053万元）的价格投放市场。它位于东64街130号，看起来就像一枚雪花，显眼地点缀在公园大道和列克星敦大道(Park and Lexington Avenues)之间的林荫道上；房屋每年的税费为52211.20美元（约合人民币317622元）。
The 15-foot-wide residence was designed along conventional lines by James E. Ware in 1878 but was boldly reimagined in white inside and out by Mr. Stone. Drawing inspiration from Frank Lloyd Wright, he infused his midcareer designs with whimsical and decorative elements attuned to nature. Harnessing light — not just with the window wall facing the street, but with an oversize geometric skylight above the top-floor landing that repeats the greenhouse style of the covered patio on the parlor level — was a major theme of his virtuosic renovation.
这套宽15英尺（约合4.6米）的寓所，由詹姆斯·E·韦尔(James E. Ware)于1878年设计，最开始走的是传统路子，但是后来，斯通进行了大胆改建，将房子从里到外漆成了白色。他从弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)那里汲取灵感，将自己在事业中期的设计风格，与契合自然而又天马行空的装饰性元素融合起来。采光是他这项大手笔装修工程的重要主题。不仅那堵面朝街道的窗户墙可以透光，顶层楼梯平台上还有一扇特大的几何花纹天窗。这处平台采用了温室的设计风格，与客厅层的那座带遮阳棚的庭院如出一辙。
He ripped out the interior walls to create a flowing front-to-back parlor-level great room with 11-foot ceilings, extending the side walls and pushing the front facade forward for a greater sense of space and openness. There was and is no structure quite like it in the city: the external alterations Mr. Stone dreamed up in 1956 would not be permitted today.
斯通还拆除了内墙，以便在客厅层打造一间线条流畅、前后通透且天花板高达11英尺（约合3.4米）的大厅。他延长了侧墙，将正面墙体向前推，营造出更大的空间感和开阔感。这样的建筑结构，当年在市内是绝无仅有的，即便今天也是如此：斯通在1956年天马行空地创造出来的外部改建方案，在今天是不会得到批准的。
The four-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath house received landmark designation in 1981, three years after Mr. Stone’s death. The home has since changed hands twice.
1981年，在斯通逝世三年后，这套四卧室、四个半卫的住宅被指定为地标性建筑，此后两度易手。
In 2006, Andrew Cogan and Lori Finkel, who had bought the townhouse two years before, donated an easement to the Trust for Architectural Easements to guarantee that the rear and front facades could never be altered. The pattern of the concrete grille is alluded to throughout the house, most notably in the kitchen backsplash tile, the wallpaper, and the library ceiling. The grille reappears on the east wall of the terrace, which connects to the yard by an exterior stairway of glass and stone. When Mr. Cogan and Ms. Finkel bought the house, they commissioned the architect Benjamin Hicks Stone, Mr. Stone’s youngest son, to restore it and update the kitchen, bathrooms and mechanical systems.
2006年，当了两年房主的安德鲁·科根(Andrew Cogan)和洛瑞·芬克尔(Lori Finkel)将地役权让渡给了建筑地役权信托基金会(Trust for Architectural Easements)，以确保正面和背面墙体不会再被改建。混凝土格子窗的花纹，出现在了房屋的各个角落，尤其是厨房后挡板的瓷砖、壁纸和书房的天花板上。格子窗也装饰着露台的东墙，一座由玻璃和石材修建的楼梯，将露台与庭院相连。科根和芬克尔当初买下这套房子时，委托了斯通最小的儿子、建筑师本杰明·希克斯·斯通(Benjamin Hicks Stone)来修葺房屋，并翻新厨房、浴室和机械系统。
The house is entered at street level, and Mr. Stone retained the interior staircase, with its white spindles and mahogany railing. The ground level has a guest bedroom suite with garden access. The parlor floor is an open living/dining/entertainment space; a 13-by-25-foot living room at the back has a marble fireplace, original mahogany molding around the rear bay windows, and a glass door to the terrace. The third floor, which retains two original fireplaces, comprises the master suite and library, and on the top floor there are two bedrooms, each with its own bath.
房屋的入口设在街面层，斯通保留了带有白色栏杆和红木扶手的室内楼梯。一楼有一间客卧套房，从那里可以进入花园。客厅层是一个开放式的起居/用餐/娱乐区；后面的起居室面积为13乘25英尺（约合4.0乘7.6米），内有一座大理石壁炉。后墙的飘窗四周保留了原来的红木线脚，还有一扇玻璃门通往露台。三楼有主卧和书房，保留了两座原来的壁炉。顶层有两间卧室，每一间都带浴室。