Sometimes he sounds like Paulo Coelho: “Before me, I saw forever, nothing and everything — mountain ranges, canyons, sagebrush, the simple life at last.” Elsewhere he channels Bram Stoker: “The basketball gods can sometimes be most cruel.”
有时候他听上去很像保罗·科埃略(Paulo Coelho)：“我看到眼前出现永恒、虚无与一切——山脉、峡谷和灌木，终于过上了简单的生活。”其他地方他还借用布拉姆·斯托克(Bram Stoker)的句子：“篮球之神有时候是最残酷的。”
The writer is Phil Jackson, newly ordained savior of the Knicks and author of a nearly Mailer-like profusion of books. Getting through the 1,682 pages of his collected works requires every trick in his oeuvre: every breathing technique, every Lao Tzu quotation, every positive visualization. As in meditation, the rewards are considerable, but so is the suffering.
这位作家就是菲尔·杰克逊(Phil Jackson)，纽约尼克斯队新上任的救星，以及若干几乎有梅勒(Mailer)风格的巨著的作者。要读完他长达1682页的合集，需要用上他著作中提到的所有技术：所有呼吸技巧、每一句老子的引言，还要把积极的想法视觉化。就像冥想一样，回报是客观的，但是痛苦也很巨大。
Of course, his books are not meant to be read all in a gulp. They are meant to be savored individually, by fans sporting throwback Kobe Bryant jerseys, or by chief executives applying the principles of the triangle offense to the boardroom, or by high school coaches wondering what to do with the proto-Rodmans in their charge.
当然，他的书不是让你一口气读完的。而是供那些身穿科比·布莱恩特(Kobe Bryant)运动衫的球迷、在会议室里施展三角战术的企业高管，乃至不知拿手下的“未来罗德曼”们如何是好的中学教练一本本细心品味。
If you read Jackson this way, as most people do, you will have an intermittently good time, and you will come away with a handful of memorable tidbits. You will learn, for instance, that Jerry Buss, the former Los Angeles Lakers owner who died in 2013 (and the father of Jackson’s fiancée), had a “penchant for hanging out with young girls and dancing till 3 in the morning.” You will learn that in Game 6 of the 1997 N.B.A. finals, the Chicago Bulls’ equipment manager accidentally gave the players GatorLode, a high-carbohydrate drink, rather than Gatorade, meaning that each player “ingested the equivalent of about 20 baked potatoes.”
如果你像大多数人一样去读杰克逊，你可能会不时觉得很有意思，也会读到一些难忘的片段。比方说，你会了解到2013年去世的洛杉矶湖人队前任老板杰里·巴斯（Jerry Buss，他也是杰克逊未婚妻的父亲）“喜欢和年轻女孩出去跳舞，凌晨三点才回家”。你也会读到，在1997年NBA总决赛的第六场比赛里，芝加哥公牛队的后勤管理员本应给运动员喝运动饮料“Gatorade”，结果却错误地提供了另一种碳水化合物含量极高的饮料“GatorLode”，意味着每个运动员“吃下了相当于20个烤土豆”。
What you will not do, though, is realize the peculiar beauty that Jackson’s books, like starlings, possess only collectively. When it comes to this particular depth of Jackson appreciation, I may (depending on whether Jackson himself has ever made it all the way through “More Than a Game”) stand entirely alone.
但这样你就无法认清杰克逊的书中特殊的美，它像椋鸟一样，只有成群结队方显其美。我可能是唯一对杰克逊的作品有如此深度认识的人（取决于杰克逊本人在《不只是一场比赛》[More Than a Game]这本书中是否也有同样深度的认识）。
First, though, a survey of the territory.
不过首先还是来研究一下这个领域。
Jackson has written six books. Or maybe seven. It’s more confusing than you’d think. Do you count “Journey to the Ring,” the glossy coffee-table book recounting the Lakers’ 2009-10 season? How about “The Gospel According to Phil,” an unauthorized, pocket-size collection of quotations in large fonts?
杰克逊写了六本书，或者是七本，这比你想的要复杂。你会把《球皇无双》(Journey to the Ring)这本用咖啡桌读物那种铜版纸印制的湖人队2009-10年赛季回顾算进去吗？《菲尔福音书》(The Gospel According to Phil)呢？这本口袋书中用大号字体印制了他的引语，但却未得到他的授权。
Scholars will quibble, but I think we can settle on five core texts: “Maverick” (1975), “Sacred Hoops” (1995), “More Than a Game” (2001), “The Last Season” (2004) and “Eleven Rings” (2013).
学者们会吹毛求疵，但我觉得他的书应该是这五本核心著作：《特立独行》(Maverick, 1975)；《神圣篮圈》(Sacred Hoops, 1995)；《不只是一场比赛》(2001)；《最后赛季》(The Last Season, 2004)和《11枚戒指》(Eleven Rings, 2013)。
Each of these is, to varying degrees, a hybrid. Part sports memoir, part spiritual treatise, part management how-to, each book has a bit for everyone, and a bit to make everyone’s eyelids droop.
每本书在不同程度上都是一种杂交。部分是体育回忆录，部分是心灵学论文，部分是管理学，每个人都能从每本书中发现一点自己感兴趣的东西，也总会有一些让他们看了犯困的内容。
With the exception of “The Last Season,” all of Jackson’s books are ghostwritten. This leads to the problems you might expect. Whole paragraphs are repeated nearly verbatim. The tone wavers between faux-intimacy and cue-card bleariness. The dialogue sounds made up. (Here’s Luc Longley, the former Bulls center from Australia, on hurting himself while on vacation: “ ‘Coach, I screwed up. A rogue wave caught me while bodysurfing, and I separated my left shoulder. Sorry, mate.’ ”)
除了《最后赛季》，杰克逊的其他书都是他人代笔的。这就导致了你可能会预想到的状况。有整段整段几乎是一字不差地重复。口吻在假装出来的亲切和提词卡片一般的含糊之间转换。对话看上去像是编出来的。比如书中写道，芝加哥公牛队的前澳洲中锋卢克·朗利(Luc Longley)，在度假期间受伤，他说：“教练，我搞砸了。人体冲浪的时候一道可恶的浪头卷起了我，我的左肩膀不行了。对不起，伙计。”
So the style of these books is not going to displace John McPhee from sportswriting anthologies. What about the substance?
所以，用这些书的文体，约翰·麦克菲（John McPhee，美国当代非虚构写作的代表人物——编注）也可以从事体育新闻的写作、出选集了。那么，书的内容又是怎样的呢？
Surprisingly, given Jackson’s reputation as a philosopher-poet, the most perfunctory parts of the books are the ones in which he tries to demonstrate that basketball is merely one of many interests. His writing about Buddhism tends toward the Wikipediaesque. The leadership bits read as not-entirely-good-faith lunges toward the business best-seller list, full of nods to “a commentary on CNNMoney.com” and a “groundbreaking book, ‘Tribal Leadership.’ ”
令人惊讶的是，杰克逊虽有哲学诗人之称，他的书中最肤浅的部分就是那些他试图表明篮球仅仅是自己众多兴趣爱好之一的那些部分。他写佛教的部分有点维基百科的风格。写领导才能的部分有点像塞进商业畅销书单里那些“只有好的信念还不够”的书籍，不时提到“CNNMoney.com评论”和“一本划时代的书，《部落领导力》(Tribal Leadership)”。
It’s the basketball sections that are the meat of these books. Basketball is, after all, the reason anyone has heard of Jackson, and there’s an anticipatory thrill, as with a presidential memoir, in the idea of re-experiencing the memorable moments, this time from inside the television.
写篮球的部分是这些书中最精彩的篇章。毕竟人们知道杰克逊正是因为篮球。而且，就像阅读总统的回忆录一样，人们也怀着兴奋的期待，想要重温记忆中的时刻，这一次是由电视中的人亲口说出。
And Jackson does not entirely disappoint. It’s hard to give an account of Michael Jordan’s flu game without raising a goose bump or two. It’s equally hard, though, to march through an entire regular season without lapsing into narcotizing detail, and this is a danger by which Jackson is not intimidated.
在这方面，杰克逊并不完全令人失望。不动声色地回顾迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)患流感坚持参赛可不是那么容易。讲完一个完整的常规赛季，在那些令人兴奋的细节方面完全不出小错也很困难，杰克逊却完全没被这些困难吓倒。
There are individual accounts of games Jackson played as a teenager in North Dakota. There’s a chapter that recounts the Lakers’ entire 1999-2000 season in sentences like this: “Denver was very active on defense and destroyed whatever momentum we were able to generate using a one-two-two half-court trap that forced us to take early shots.”
杰克逊回忆了自己年轻时在北德科他打球时的一场场比赛。在有一章里，他用类似下面这样的句子描述湖人队整个1999-2000赛季，“丹佛队的防守非常活跃，摧毁了我们用122半场盯人战术制造的所有进攻势头，我们被迫提早投篮。”
At first, staggering through these pages, you think that Jackson must be filibustering his way to his contractually mandated word count. But he’s not. The deadness that creeps into Jackson’s voice in these sections is not, you realize, the sound of boredom but rather the glassy-eyed calm that maniacs feel when they finally get to discuss the objects of their obsession. This is the sound of children reciting the plots of their favorite movies or of airplane enthusiasts listing engine parts.
首先，磕磕绊绊地读过这些篇章，你会觉得杰克逊在向合约代笔者口述的时候，肯定是滔滔不绝地长篇大论。但是并不是这样。你发现，在有些章节里，他的口气开始显得死气沉沉，那并不是因为烦了，而是疯狂的人们最终开始谈论他们迷恋的事情时表现出来的平静。就像孩子复述他们最喜欢的电影，或是迷恋飞机的人们列举机械零件时的口吻。
For Jackson, a Game 7 squeaker and a January blowout in Charlotte really are not so different. Both are basketball — whereas locker-room celebrations, like family and travel and most everything else, fall into that other, unfortunate category: not basketball.
对于杰克逊来说，在总决赛第七场取胜和在一月大胜夏洛特山猫队并没有什么不同。反正都是打篮球——至于更衣室庆祝，还有家庭、旅行等其他事宜都被归入另一个不幸的种类：“非篮球”。 
In one of the most moving parts of any of his books, his sister-in-law stops by the locker room to tell him that she burst into tears while watching him coach. “ ‘I started crying,’ she said, ‘because I realized that this is exactly what you were meant to do. You’re so comfortable out there. It just seems so right.’ ”
在他所有书中最动人的一章里，他的嫂子来到更衣室告诉他，自己在看他现场指挥时眼里涌出了泪水。“我哭了，”她说，“因为我意识到这就是你应当做的事。你在场外很放松，看上去那就应该是你来做的事情。”
It is those tears, finally, that point us to the strange and tragic power of these books. They begin to read, past a certain point, as a single enormous novel with an unreliable narrator: He is forever promising to get serious about repairing his marriage or attending to his health, and he is forever doubling back, waking up in the night with new defensive schemes. Even the present-day Knicks, apparently, are not without their allure. He is Ahab in a custom-built courtside chair.
最终，正是这些泪水为我们指引出这些书中奇异与悲剧性的力量。到达一定程度，这些书就开始变得像是大部头的小说，有一个靠不住的叙事者：他总是承诺要认真地修补自己的婚姻和健康，但却总是徒劳无功，在半夜突然醒来，思考新的防守战略。甚至如今的尼克斯队显然魅力依旧。他就是亚哈国王，坐在场外一把经过特别定制的教练椅上。
And once you begin to see him this way, the tedium of the books transforms from a defect into a reflection of the authentic tedium of having a mind, of having, after all, only so many memories in the old rock tumbler. John Updike, in his “Rabbit” novels, experimented with the power of the banal protagonist, the jock in his Jockeys, but he never quite went all the way; Jackson has actually done it. “I was having an affair with an airline stewardess,” Jackson writes. Later: “Our six years of marriage were now officially ended. We had no idea what was going to happen to each other.”
一旦你开始从这个角度看他，这些书的乏味就不再是缺点，而是一种真实的反映：一个心中只想着一件事、只有关于那一件事的记忆的人是非常沉闷的。约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)在他的“兔子”系列小说里尝试用平庸的主人公，一个穿运动服的运动爱好者来展现力量，但他没有从始至终、一以贯之，杰克逊却做到了。“我曾经和一个空姐有过一段风流事，”杰克逊写道，然后又写“我们的六年婚姻如今正式结束了。我们都不知道对方将来会怎么样。” 
This sense — of having “no idea what was going to happen to each other” — turns out to be the final secret to these books’ cumulative power. We meet Bill Bradley in 1969 (“Bill seemed to be a cold individual and a loner”) and know that Jackson will, decades later, in a brief attempt at a nonbasketball life, work for Bradley’s presidential campaign. We read about Jackson’s first twinges of back pain in 1968 and already see the hobble to which he will eventually be reduced.
这种“不知道对方将来会怎样”的感觉变成了这些书逐渐累加起来的力量的终极秘密。我们在书中读到1969年的比尔·布拉德利(Bill Bradley)——“比尔看上去冷漠而孤独”——我们知道，几十年后，杰克逊曾经短暂地想要尝试过着没有篮球的生活，去布拉德利的总统竞选团队工作。我们读到杰克逊在1968年第一次感觉全身疼痛，也看到这一疾病最终令他身体衰弱。