The chief outcome of Tuesday’s meeting between officials of Taiwan and mainland China was an agreement to set up a mechanism for regular communications between the two sides, which have previously relied on quasi-official bodies. Those organizations, Taiwan’s Straits Exchange Foundation and the mainland’s Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, will continue to operate alongside whatever official lines of communication are established, the Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported.
台湾和大陆官员周二会面的一个主要结果是同意设立常态化两岸沟通机制，两岸此前一直依靠半官方机构接触。主要是台湾的海峡交流基金会(Straits Exchange Foundation)和大陆的海峡两岸关系协会(Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits)，它们将与建立的那种官方交流渠道并行运作，中国国家通讯社新华社消息称。
President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan said the meeting in the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing was of “extraordinary significance,” a spokeswoman told Taiwan’s government-backed Central News Agency. It was first time the two sides had met for official talks since Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist government fled to Taiwan after its defeat on the mainland by Mao Zedong’s Communist forces in 1949.
台湾总统马英九称这次在南京进行的会面具有“重大意义”，一名女发言人对台湾的由政府支持的中央新闻社这样说。这是蒋介石的国民党政府被毛泽东领导的共产党军队打败、于1949年逃往台湾之后，两岸首次举行的正式会面。
Hung Tsai-lung, head of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party’s China affairs department, questioned the lack of any notable progress on several other issues, including consular-type visitation rights for Taiwanese detained on the mainland and press freedom, a subject that was highlighted by the barring of two reporters from Taiwan from covering the meeting.
反对党民进党的中国事务部主任洪财隆对在其他几个问题上没有取得任何明显进展表示质疑，这些问题包括对被大陆拘留的台湾人进行类似领事性探视、以及言论自由等，言论自由问题由于台湾两名记者被拒绝参与报道这次会议而显得尤为突出。
“What we are concerned about is how the Communist and Nationalist parties use trade discussions to advance what in essence are political discussions,” said Hung Chih-kune, a member of the DPP’s Central Executive Committee.
民进党中央执行委员会委员洪智坤说，“我们担心的是共产党和国民党如何利用贸易谈判来推动本质上是政治谈判的谈判。”
Wang Yu-chi, the head of Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council, said after the meeting that the possibility of a future summit between Mr. Ma and President Xi Jinping of China, the subject of much speculation in Taiwan, was not raised during the talks.
台湾大陆委员会的主任委员王郁琦在会后称，会谈并未提及马英九与中国国家主席习近平在未来会面的可能性，这是个在台湾引起众多猜测的话题。
Just how Mr. Wang would be addressed during the meeting was closely scrutinized in Taiwan. Beijing is loath to take any steps that might be seen as conferring legitimacy on Taiwan’s government, one reason previous talks were carried out by semi-official organizations. Calling the head of the Mainland Affairs Council “Minister” rather than “Mr.” Wang could signal recognition of his governmental status.
台湾密切关注此次会面时大陆如何称呼王郁琦的问题。北京不愿采取任何可能被视为承认台湾政府合法性的步骤，这也是过去两岸会谈通过半官方机构进行的一个原因。称大陆委员会负责人为“主委”而不是“先生”就可能暗示承认了王郁琦的政府官员地位。
Ahead of his opening statement, the head of mainland China’s Taiwan Affairs Office, Zhang Zhijun called his counterpart “Minister Wang Yu-chi” but did not name his ministry, The Taipei Times reported.
《台北时报》报道称，大陆国台办主任张志军在开场致辞之前称王郁琦为“王郁琦主委”，但并没有提到他所在的委员会的名称。
Wang presented a wreath and read a short statement there on Wednesday.
王郁琦周三前往中山陵献花并宣读了一份简短的祭文。