HONG KONG — Smoking a cigarette outside a mall in the border town of Sheung Shui, a man who gave his name only as Chen stands next to a wheeled cart filled with purchases. He is visiting from the Chinese city of Shantou, 177 miles away, a trip he makes several times a year.
香港——在与大陆毗邻的香港上水的一座购物中心外，一名自称姓陈的男子正站在一辆购物车旁抽烟，车筐里装满了商品。他来自280公里外的内地城市汕头。这样的旅行，他一年会安排好几次。
“When I come to Hong Kong, it’s mainly to buy medicine — maybe some food products, too,” said Mr. Chen. “There are more brands available here, many of which you can’t find back home. On the mainland, there is also a lot of counterfeiting.”
“我来香港主要是买药，有时也买一些食品，”陈先生说。“这里的品牌更多，有许多牌子在家乡找不到。而且在内地，假货很多。”
Shoppers like Mr. Chen are the new face of Chinese spending in northern Hong Kong, and their vast numbers are changing the landscape near the former British colony’s border with the mainland. Retail space in these areas, collectively called the New Territories, and along the rail line running through them, is increasingly oriented toward mainland day-trippers and “parallel traders” from Guangdong, the southern Chinese province, who buy items for resale at a markup in China and avoid import taxes.
陈先生这样的购物者，如今已经成为在香港北部购物的大陆人中的主力。这一庞大的群体正在改变这个前英国殖民地与内地毗邻地区的面貌。在被统称为新界的这片区域，以及穿行其间的铁路沿线附近，零售商们正越来越着眼于当日往返的内地消费者，以及来自广东省的“水货客”。水货客会把从这里买来的东西在内地加价卖出去，从而逃脱关税。
According to mainland customs data, more than 20,000 parallel traders cross the border daily, not including thousands of individuals doing personal shopping. Added to an acute housing shortage, this has led to more than $15 billion worth of planned construction, including millions of square feet of shopping and thousands of new apartments. But even as business booms, the influx pushes up retail rents and forces businesses aimed at local residents to move or close.
根据大陆海关的数据，除了成千上万满足普通购物需求的个人，每天还有超过2万水货客进入香港。除了严重的住房短缺，这还带来了价值超过150亿美元（约合930亿元人民币）的建设项目计划，其中包括上百万平方英尺的商场，以及数千套的新公寓。但在商业兴旺发展的同时，零售店铺的租金也因大量涌入的人潮被推高，那些针对本地居民的商家不得不搬迁或倒闭。
More than 6,000 farmers and villagers will be displaced by projects in the northeast New Territories, according to local media reports. Paul Chan Mo-po, the Hong Kong secretary for development, said compensation packages would be offered to eligible households. Subsidized housing has been set aside for those losing their homes, he added.
根据当地媒体的报道，由于新界东北部的一些项目，超过6000名务农者和村民将面临搬迁。香港发展局局长陈茂波(Paul Chan Mo-po)表示，将向符合资格的家庭提供补偿方案，并且预留了供失去住房的人安家的补贴住房。
Sheung Shui is the Hong Kong town closest to the border. From morning until night, mainland shoppers pump money into this little-known part of Hong Kong. “The best-selling products here are milk powder, diapers and red wine,” said Wong Laiping, holding a box of Franzia wine at her store in Sheung Shui, which also has a currency exchange counter. “It’s all headed over to Shenzhen.”
上水是距大陆最近的香港市镇。从早到晚，内地购物者的钞票源源不断地流入香港的这片几无名气的地方。“最畅销的是奶粉、尿布和红酒，”在上水开店的王来萍（Wong Laiping，音译）抱着一箱Franzia葡萄酒在店里说。店内还设置了货币兑换柜台。“货都被卖到了深圳。”
Adjacent to Sheung Shui’s railway station, retailers at the busy Landmark North shopping mall, where tenants include Rolex, Tissot, The Body Shop and Estée Lauder, said that 75 to 90 percent of their customers were mainland Chinese.
在上水火车站附近，上水广场购物中心人声鼎沸，里面进驻了劳力士(Rolex)、天梭(Tissot)、美体小铺(The Body Shop)和雅诗兰黛(Estée Lauder)等品牌。零售商们称，75%到90%的顾客是大陆人。
David Ji, director and head of research and consultancy in greater China for Knight Frank, said average rents of retail space in the New Territories increased 29 percent last year, more than double Hong Kong’s overall increase. There is still a significant gap between retail rents in the New Territories, at 134 Hong Kong dollars, or $17.29, per square foot per month, and the rate of 174 dollars on Hong Kong Island.
莱坊公司(Knight Frank)的董事兼大中华研究及咨询部主管纪言迅(David Ji)说，新界店面的平均租金去年上涨了29%，是香港整体涨幅的两倍还多。新界和港岛的商铺租金之间仍然存在巨大差距，新界为每月每平方英尺134港元（约合每月每平方米1200元人民币），香港岛则为174港元。
“Retail facilities in the New Territories, in particular those along the railway and near the border, are expected to remain in demand, with mainland visitors’ shopping patterns moving from the high end of the market to midpriced products and daily necessities,” Mr. Ji said.
纪言迅说，“随着大陆游客的购物模式从市场高端品牌向中档商品和日用品转移，对新界的零售设施的需求预计仍将继续增长，尤其是在铁路沿线和边界附近。”
Although a slowing economy and campaigns against extravagant consumption by government officials have hurt most luxury shopping hubs in Hong Kong, business has been booming in the New Territories. This is especially true along the East Rail Line, which links China with Hong Kong and runs through Sheung Shui and the towns of Fanling, Tai Po and Sha Tin, all of which offer walking access to large malls.
尽管经济放缓以及打击政府官员奢侈消费的行动对香港多数奢侈品消费中心造成了不利影响，但新界的生意蒸蒸日上，东铁沿线尤其如此。东铁线联通了大陆和香港，途经上水、粉岭和大埔，而在这些站，步行就可以抵达大型商场。
More than half of mainland visitors to Hong Kong in 2013 came from Guangdong, according to the market research firm Nielsen. Shenzhen is the primary gateway for visitors from Guangdong, which last year became the first Chinese province with a gross domestic product of more than $1 trillion, making it the world’s 16th-largest economy, just after South Korea.
根据市场调研公司尼尔森(Nielsen)的统计，2013年，香港超过一半的大陆游客来自广东。深圳是广东游客进入香港的主要入口。广东去年成为首个GDP超过1万亿美元的中国省份，相当于世界第16大经济体，仅次于韩国。
Large-scale mixed-use developments planned by the government for the New Territories will add more retail space and increase housing supply, especially government-subsidized housing. Last September, the Hong Kong government said one-seventh of its population was living below a poverty line of 3,600 Hong Kong dollars in monthly income for a single individual, or 14,300 dollars for a family of four.
政府在新界规划的大规模多功能开发项目将带来更多的零售场所，并增加住房供应，尤其是政府补贴住房。去年9月，香港政府表示，七分之一的港人生活在贫困线以下，也就是个人月收入低于3600港元，或四口之家的月收入低于14300港元。
One major initiative, the Northeast New Territories New Development Areas, involves building more than 60,000 apartments for about 175,000 people by 2022 and merging the towns of Sheung Shui and Fanling into a town of 500,000. It is projected to cost $15.5 billion.
新界东北新发展区是主要项目之一。该项目包括，在2022年之前为大约17.5万人建造逾6万套公寓，以及把上水和粉岭合并成一个50万人口的市镇。预计成本为155亿美元。
Similar population clusters in the northwest New Territories at Yuen Long South and the proposed Hung Shui Kiu New Development Area are in the planning stages. So is a proposal to convert Tung Chung on Lantau Island into a new central business district, drawing upon its proximity to the city’s international airport and the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau bridge. The bridge, expected to be completed in 2016, will offer road access to the west side of the Pearl River Delta for the first time, opening a new conduit for mainland shoppers.
新界西北部的元朗南密集着同等规模的人口，此处有关洪水桥新发展区的提议正在筹划阶段。同样在筹划的还包括把大屿山的古洞变成一个新的中央商务区的提议，这是为了利用其毗邻香港国际机场和港珠澳大桥的优势。港珠澳大桥预计于2016年完工，将成为香港首个通向珠江三角洲西侧的陆路通道，从而为大陆赴港购物者提供新的路线选择。
Mr. Ji of Knight Frank said the Hong Kong companies Sun Hung Kai Properties and Henderson Land Development were the developers with the largest footprints in the New Territories.
莱坊的纪言迅称，香港的新鸿基地产和恒基兆业地产是在新界业务规模最大的两家开发商。
Sun Hung Kai, which with a $34 billion market value is among Asia’s largest developers, declined an interview but said in a statement that New Territories projects in the pipeline included the one-million-square-foot YOHO mall next to the Yuen Long train station.
新鸿基地产市值达340亿美元，是亚洲最大的地产商之一。该公司不愿接受采访，但在一份声明中表示，正在进行中的新界项目包括，位于元朗站附近的占地100万平方英尺（约合9.3万平方米）的新时代广场。
According to a company report in April, it acquired a new site in the emerging shopping hub of Tuen Mun in February that it will develop into 26,000 square feet of retail space and 140,000 square feet of residential units. Last year, it opened V City, its flagship mall for the northwest New Territories, atop the rail station there.
根据今年4月的一份公司报告，新鸿基地产2月购买了正在兴起的屯门购物中心区的一块地皮。它将在这里建造2.6万平方英尺的零售场所和14万平方英尺的住宅单元。去年，新鸿基地产在新界西北部的旗舰商场V City开张，地段就在屯门站近旁。
Sun Hung Kai holds more than 27 million square feet of farmland, primarily along existing or planned rail lines in the New Territories, the report said. The company owns 13 shopping malls in the New Territories.
这份报告说，新鸿基拥有逾2700万平方英尺的农田，主要位于新界现有或计划修建的铁路沿线。该公司目前在新界拥有13座购物中心。
Henderson, which also declined an interview request, has 42.5 million square feet of undeveloped land in the New Territories, the most of any Hong Kong developer. The company holds 2.7 million square feet of land in the northeast new development areas alone, which could be sold to the government for $270 million to $410 million, according to a 2013 J. P. Morgan report.
恒基兆业地产也拒绝了采访请求。该公司在新界拥有4250万平方英尺的待开发土地，超过了其他任何一家香港开发商。光是在东北部的新开发区，恒基兆业就拥有270万平方英尺的土地。根据摩根大通(J.P.Morgan)的一份报告，这片土地可能以2.7亿到4.1亿美元的价格出售给政府。