NEW YORK — Though not a household name like Tiffany or Cartier, Joel A. Rosenthal is a major presence in bespoke jewelry. Mr. Rosenthal, who works under the initials JAR, commands hundreds of thousands of dollars for his glittering brooches and earrings worn by some of the wealthiest people in the world, and many view his creations as works of art.
纽约——尽管不是蒂凡尼(Tiffany)或卡地亚(Cartier)这种家喻户晓的名字，乔尔·A·罗森塔尔(Joel A. Rosenthal)仍然是定制珠宝界的大人物。他的品牌采用自己名字的缩写JAR。熠熠生辉的胸针和耳环动辄几十万美元，由世界上最富有的一群人佩戴。许多人认为，他设计的珠宝是一种艺术品。
That is why the Metropolitan Museum of Art says it gave Mr. Rosenthal an exhibition, “Jewels by JAR,” the first it has ever given to a living jeweler.
正因为如此，大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)宣布举办一场名为“JAR珠宝”的罗森塔尔展。这是该馆首次为在世的珠宝设计师办展览。
“Joel is one of the pre-eminent jewelry designers in the world,” Thomas P. Campbell, the Met’s director, said in an interview. “He’s almost like a sculptor in gems.”
“乔尔是世界上最为出色的珠宝设计师之一，”大都会博物馆馆长托马斯·P·坎贝尔(Thomas P. Campbell)接受采访称。“他几近于珠宝雕塑家。”
But as often happens when museums mix culture with commerce, for certain people in the art and fashion world the JAR exhibition is raising questions about what boundaries should be observed in such a setting. In this case, a pop-up shop and a trunk show that accompanied the exhibition featured a special collection of JAR-designed jewelry, with the Met benefiting from the proceeds. Could the curatorial decision to feature Mr. Rosenthal’s work as art be somewhat blurred by the administrative decision to generate revenue from his merchandise?
不过，正如博物馆将文化与商业结合起来时经常出现的情况一样，在艺术和时尚界的某些人看来，JAR展引发了此种情境下应如何划定界限的问题。这一次，展览现场还设置了一间临时商店和一个内部展卖会，主打JAR设计的珠宝特藏，部分收益将流向大都会博物馆。将罗森塔尔的作品作为艺术进行展示的决策，会不会多少受了从他商品牟利的行政决策的影响？
“There is a moral hazard when using a museum as a venue increases the value of a collection,” said Brian Daniels, director of research and programs at the University of Pennsylvania Museum’s Cultural Heritage Center.
“利用博物馆来作为增加藏品价值的场所，这其中存在道德风险，”宾夕法尼亚大学博物馆文化遗产中心(University of Pennsylvania Museum’s Cultural Heritage Center)的研究与项目主管布莱恩·丹尼尔斯(Brian Daniels)说。
“Having a trunk show is a bit much,” he added. “When do you stop being a museum and start being a showroom?”
“办内部展卖会有点过头了，”他还说。“什么时候开始，你们不再是博物馆，而是商品陈列室了？”
Eyebrows were raised further when an accompanying catalog was largely written by Adrian Sassoon, a leading porcelain and jewelry dealer, but not a Met curator; and because there is no wall text or supporting historical material.
展览图册大部分由著名瓷器与珠宝经销商阿德里安·沙逊(Adrian Sassoon)编撰，而不是大都会的策展人；而且，不但墙上没有文字介绍，也没有辅助性的历史资料。这引发了更多的不满。
Marion Fasel, a jewelry historian and author of several books on jewelry who saw the show, said she did not like its lack of a story line, which she said was inspiring “passionate conversations.”
珠宝历史学者玛丽昂·法塞尔(Marion Fasel)著有数本关于这一领域的书籍。看完展览后，她表示对背景故事的缺乏不太满意，而她认为背景故事本可以激发“充满激情的对话”。
“Many people are asking me: ‘Who is he? Why was he the chosen one?’ ” Ms. Fasel said in a telephone interview. “Traditionally, in a museum like the Met, which I consider an educational institution, I expect to walk away with more information about the designer, the history, the techniques.”
“很多人问我：‘这人是谁啊？为什么选了他呢？’”法塞尔接受电话采访时说。“传统上，在大都会这种我觉得是教育机构的博物馆，我希望看完之后能对设计师、其中的历史和技巧能有更多的认识。”
The Met said that the arrangement was nothing new; the museum has commissioned and sold original prints by Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella, Howard Hodgkin and Richard Serra in conjunction with its collection and with exhibitions, among other artists.
大都会则称，这次的安排并不新鲜。而且，结合收藏和展览，大都会曾代理并销售过罗伯特·劳森伯格(Robert Rauschenberg)、弗兰克·斯特拉(Frank Stella)、霍华德·霍奇金(Howard Hodgkin)及理查德·塞拉(Richard Serra)等艺术家的版画原作。
“The collaboration reflected JAR’s willingness to support the museum through its merchandising activities,” said Elyse Topalian, a Met spokeswoman. “This is the standard business model for many museums, including the Met. It allows visitors to engage with what they have seen and enjoyed, and to support the museum at the same time.”
“此次合作体现了JAR通过其商业活动来支持本馆的意愿，”大都会的女发言人埃莉丝·托帕利安(Elyse Topalian)说。“这是许多博物馆的标准商业模式，包括大都会。它能够让参观者接触他们看到并喜爱的东西，同时对博物馆予以支持。”
As to whether there is any distinction between selling reproductions and selling JAR originals — $600 watches and earrings from $2,500 to $7,500 — “they are an edition, produced under JAR’s direction,” Ms. Topalian said. “This is absolutely in the tradition of artists’ editions developed and sold by the Met in the mezzanine gallery store.”
至于售卖复制品与JAR原件之间——600美元（约合3640元人民币）的手表，以及2500美元到7500美元之间的耳环——有何区别，“它们是在JAR指导下制作的原作副本，”托帕利安说。“这绝对符合大都会在夹层画廊商店开发并销售艺术家副本的传统。”
The exhibition, which opened on Nov. 20 and runs through March 9, presents nearly 400 of Mr. Rosenthal’s pieces, all of them lent by their owners. Known as a master of the pavé technique, Mr. Rosenthal, now 70, founded his jewelry company with Pierre Jeannet on the Place Vendôme in Paris in 1978. At a Christie’s auction in 2012, a single flower brooch set with rubies and owned by Lily Safra brought $4.3 million.
展览于11月20日开幕，将一直持续到明年3月9日。其中展出了近400件罗森塔尔的作品，全部借自物主。现年70岁的罗森塔尔拥有“覆盖技巧大师”的美名。1978年，他在巴黎的旺多姆广场与皮埃尔·让内(Pierre Jeannet)一同创办了自己的珠宝公司。在2012年的佳士得(Christie’s)拍卖会上，曾为莉莉·萨弗拉(Lily Safra)所有的一枚红宝石花型胸针拍出了430万美元。
The Met has done several exhibitions featuring jewelry by Fabergé, Tiffany and Cartier. Its jewelry-only shows have included one in 2008 on pieces by Alexander Calder and one on Turkmen jewelry last year.
大都会曾举办过几次以法贝热(Fabergé)、蒂凡尼和卡地亚珠宝为主角的展览，而全部展品为珠宝的展览包括2008年的亚历山大·考尔德(Alexander Calder)展，以及去年的突厥珠宝展。
There are products associated with just about every exhibition, Mr. Campbell said, including gold earrings with the current “Silla” show on the art of Korea. This is the goal of the Met’s merchandise department, he added: “It’s a way to generate income.”
坎贝尔表示，差不多每个展览都会有与之相关的产品，比如当前的朝鲜半岛艺术展《新罗》(Silla)中的金耳环。他还称，这正是大都会商品部的目标：“是种创收渠道。”
The JAR show has so far been well attended, drawing more than 75,000 visitors since it opened. Six gallery talks about the exhibition were canceled because the Met said the gallery was too crowded to accommodate them.
到目前为止，JAR展相当受欢迎，开幕以来吸引了逾7.5万名观众。关于本次展览的六次馆内演讲被迫取消，因为大都会称，展馆里太拥挤，没法容纳听众。
The notion of focusing on JAR was first championed by Gary Tinterow, head of the Met’s modern art department before he became director of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, last year. He said that the Costume Institute shared his interest in JAR.
JAR展的概念首先由大都会当代艺术部前总监加里·廷特罗(Gary Tinterow)提出。后来，他于去年成为休斯顿美术馆(Museum of Fine Arts)的馆长。他表示，大都会的时装学院(Costume Institute)与他一样，也对JAR有兴趣。
Mr. Rosenthal has only had two previous shows — at a London gallery in 2002 and for one day at the National Academy of Design in 1987 — but Mr. Tinterow said that JAR was Met-worthy.
罗森塔尔之前仅有两次作品展：2002年在伦敦的一家画廊，以及1987年在纽约的国家设计学院(National Academy of Design)展出了一天。不过，廷特罗称，JAR配得上大都会。
“He’s the greatest jeweler working in our day,” he said, “the equivalent of Fabergé before World War I — a consummate craftsman.”
“他是当今最伟大的珠宝设计师，相当于一战前技艺精湛的巨匠法贝热，”他说。
For visitors to the show seeking more information on the designer, a free brochure describes the gems in each object, the Met noted, adding that other jewelry exhibitions have offered wall texts, but that they were in multiple room gallery settings; the JAR show is in one room.
大都会指出，观众想要了解罗森塔尔更多信息的话，可以观看介绍每件珠宝所含宝石的免费手册。该馆还称，有墙面文字介绍的其他一些珠宝展是在多个展厅中举办的，而JAR展占据的是一个展厅。
The financier Wilbur Ross, who with his wife, Hilary Geary Ross, is a sponsor of the JAR exhibition, said that they loaned one of their pieces — “Over the Moon” earrings with diamonds. Other lenders who agreed to be identified include the model Stephanie Seymour (a Mughal ring of rubies, pearls and diamonds); the actress Gwyneth Paltrow (a string necklace of diamonds and platinum); and the society hostess Susan Gutfreund (oak leaf and acorn earrings).
金融家威尔伯·罗斯(Wilbur Ross)与妻子希拉里·吉尔里·罗斯(Hilary Geary Ross)共同赞助了JAR展。他透露，两人借出了一款展品——名为“月亮之上”(Over the Moon)的钻石耳环。披露了物主身份的其他展品包括：模特斯蒂芬妮·西摩(Stephanie Seymour)的莫卧儿红宝石珍珠钻石戒指；格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Paltrow)的钻石铂金项链；以及社交名媛苏珊·古特弗罗因德(Susan Gutfreund)的橡叶橡子外形耳环。
“We’ve been buying jewelry from JAR for several years,” Mr. Ross said. “He is an absolute genius.”
“我们从JAR那里购买珠宝有好几年了，”罗斯说。“他是绝对的天才。”
Mr. Rosenthal’s prickly selling habits are legend — he famously won’t sell to people if he doesn’t like the way his pieces look on them — and Mr. Ross said patronizing his unmarked Paris shop is something of a challenge. “When you rap on the door, some guy says: ‘What is it you want? Why are you here? Who sent you?’ ” Mr. Ross said. “They’re kind of particular about their clientele. It sort of makes it fun.”
罗森塔尔挑剔的销售习惯成为了传奇——他不会把作品卖给任何他认为戴上不合适的人，以此出名。罗斯称，光顾他没有招牌的巴黎店是种挑战。“你敲门的时候，会有人问：‘你想要什么？为什么来这里？谁让你来的？”罗斯说。“他们会挑选客户。这挺有趣的。”
“Everything he does is literally one of a kind — that adds to the charm,” Mr. Ross said.
“他做的每件事都的确是独一无二的——这更增加了他的魅力，”罗斯说。
“There’s a little cult that has developed — I call them JARians,” Mr. Ross added. “They develop a bond with him and his objects. People can tell that you’re wearing JAR.”
“已经发展出了一点宗教崇拜的味道——我把他们称为JAR教徒，”罗斯还说。“他们与他本人和作品形成了一种联系。他们可以看出来你戴JAR。”