Frustrated by delays in Parliament, and eager to gain favor with rural voters ahead of national elections, India’s cabinet has approved a sweeping executive order that establishes a legal right to food and will create what is likely to be the world’s largest food subsidy system for the poor.
由于对议会的一再拖延感到失望，同时也急于在全国大选前赢得农村选民的青睐，印度内阁颁布了一项影响广泛的行政命令，规定粮食是合法权利，并将为穷人建立可能是世界上最大的粮食补贴制度。
The issue of food security has been a source of controversy during the government’s second term. Sonia Gandhi, president of the Indian National Congress Party, has promoted the plan as a necessity to widen the safety net for the country’s hundreds of millions of rural poor. But critics have complained about the high costs and have warned that the program will broaden a subsidy system that is already inefficient and corrupt.
在现政府的第二个任期内，粮食安全问题一直在引发争议。印度国民大会党(IndianNational Congress Party)主席索尼娅·甘地(Sonia Gandhi)把这个计划宣扬成扩大该国数亿贫困农民的安全保障的必要举措。但批评人士抱怨其成本高昂，并警告称，这个计划会扩大本已低效、腐败的补贴制度。
For the governing Congress Party, the new ordinance fulfills a campaign pledge made by Mrs. Gandhi and provides her party with something tangible to offer voters as the country prepares for national elections next year. The coalition government has been battered by corruption scandals and a sinking economy. With polls suggesting a loss of public support for the Congress Party, the food ordinance is good politics, some analysts say, if uncertain economics.
对执政党国大党而言，新条令兑现了甘地在竞选期间的承诺，在印度筹备明年的全国大选之际，这条政令也是她领导的政党提供给选民的切实可见的东西。最近一段时间，腐败丑闻和日益衰退的经济严重打击了联合政府。一些分析人士称，鉴于民调显示，国大党正在失去公众支持，食品条令在政治上是明智之举，但在经济层面则不太好说。
“It is very consistent with the overall thrust of the government to become the welfare party of India,” said Ashutosh Varshney, an India specialist at Brown University. “How to finance welfare is a tricky question. But the welfare party of India can still garner a lot of votes because so much of India is still below the poverty line.”
“这非常符合现任政府希望成为印度的福利党的总体努力，”布朗大学(Brown University)印度问题专家阿舒托什·瓦什尼(Ashutosh Varshney)说，“如何为福利提供资金是一个棘手问题。但印度的福利党依然能赢得大量选票，因为很多印度人依然处在贫困线以下。”
The ordinance, issued Wednesday, still requires further approval. It must be signed by President Pranab Mukherjee, considered a formality, and then approved by a majority in both houses of Parliament in the coming “monsoon” session. Initially, the Congress Party had intended to pass a bill in Parliament, but the effort met with numerous delays and political fights, some within the Congress Party, until the government instead opted for the cabinet ordinance.
周三颁布的这一条令依然需要获得进一步的批准。它必须得到总统普拉纳博·穆克吉(Pranab Mukherjee)的签署，虽然这被认为是一种形式，而后还需要在即将到来的“雨季”国会会议期间分别得到两院大多数人的批准。起初，国大党本想在议会通过一项法案，但这一努力多次被推迟，还遇到了来自党内党外的政治阻挠，直到政府转而选择发布内阁条令。
“Why didn’t the government bring the food bill in Parliament and discuss it?” asked Rajnath Singh, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the main opposition party. “Why such hurry?”
“政府为什么不向议会提交粮食法案，以供讨论？”主要反对党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)主席拉杰纳特·辛格(Rajnath Singh)说。“为什么这么着急？”
The debate over food security has also featured a clash of ideas about how a country like India, with 1.2 billion people and sharp extremes of wealth and poverty, can most effectively provide food to the poor, and provide them with the tools to lift themselves into better lives. India once had a state-led, centrally planned economy, but now it has something of a hybrid, with powerful interest groups wedded to maintaining entrenched fuel and food subsidy programs, even as many business leaders push for more market-based solutions.
印度有12亿人口，贫富差距极其悬殊。在围绕粮食安全的辩论中，关于这样一个国家如何能最有效地为穷人提供粮食，并向他们提供改善生活境况的工具，不同观点激烈交锋。印度曾经实行国家领导的中央计划经济，但现在实行的是一种混合经济，尽管许多商业领袖奋力追求更多以市场为基础的解决方案，但影响力强大的利益集团却坚决维护确立已久的燃料和粮食补贴计划。
India’s economy, once roaring above 9 percent annual growth, has now cooled appreciably, and many critics have cautioned that the food security program could be a huge burden as the government tries to address a stubborn budget deficit. Currently, the government allots about $15 billion to food subsidies, a figure that also includes payments to farmers. Under the new broader plan, that figure would rise to nearly $21 billion.
印度经济的年增长速度曾一度超过9%，但现在已明显降温，许多批评人士还警告称，在政府试图解决顽固的预算赤字问题之际，这个粮食安全计划可能会成为巨大的负担。当前，政府拨付给粮食补贴的金额约为150亿美元（约合929亿元人民币），其中包括支付给农民的款项。根据这个范围更广的新计划，这一数字会增至近210亿美元。
The exact details of the ordinance passed by the cabinet have not yet been made public, but presumably it closely follows the government-supported Food Security Bill, which had been pending in Parliament. That bill has several components: an expansion of food subsidies to 75 percent of the rural population and 50 percent of the urban population; guaranteed free lunches for poor children ages 6 months to 14; and a free meal and $100 subsidy for pregnant women.
该内阁条令的具体细节还未被公之于众，但据推测，它会与政府支持的《食品安全法案》(Food Security Bill)非常相似。目前，该法案仍在议会悬而未决。这一法案包括几个部分：让食品补贴覆盖75%的农村人口和50%的城市人口；保证年龄在6个月和14岁之间的儿童享有免费午餐；孕妇享有免费餐和100美元的补贴。
Jean Drèze, an economist and a leader of the food security campaign, said that the program had been scaled down from earlier proposals and that the extra costs were a bit misleading, since new expenditures to the central government would be somewhat offset by reduced burdens on state governments. He said the law would streamline existing eligibility categories and make permanent some existing programs for poor women and children.
此次食品安全运动的领头人、经济学家让·德雷兹(Jean Drèze)说，和之前的提案相比，该计划缩小了规模，其额外费用也引起了一些误解，其实，中央政府的新支出将在一定程度上减低邦政府负担。他指出，法律会简化现有的资格类别，并让一些针对贫穷妇女儿童的现有计划成为长期项目。
“I think it is less ambitious than many people believe,” Mr. Drèze said.
“我认为这没有很多人想的那样好高骛远，”德雷兹说。
But many economists warn that India cannot afford to expand subsidies at a time when economic growth is slowing and the government is struggling to contain its deficit. Surjit S. Bhalla, an economist, predicted that the program would exacerbate fiscal problems and could also create disincentives for farmers that could lower food production in India.
但很多经济学家警告称，在经济增长放缓，政府艰难控制赤字的时期，印度负担不起扩大补贴的成本。经济学家苏尔吉特·S·巴拉(Surjit S. Bhalla)预测，该计划将加剧财政问题，还会降低农民的生产积极性，从而降低印度的粮食生产量。
“I do not know of a more bizarre scheme in the world,” said Mr. Bhalla, chairman of Oxus Investments, an economic research and advisory firm.
“我认为世界上没有比这更怪的计划了，”经济研究和咨询服务公司Oxus投资的总裁巴拉说。
Currently, the government’s Public Distribution System distributes subsidized grain and kerosene through Fair Price Shops across India. Eligibility categories are used to determine how much a person can receive, and the program distributes monthly bags of wheat or rice, along with cooking fuel, to millions of people.
目前，政府的公共分配系统(Public Distribution System)通过全国范围内的平价店(Fair Price Shop)分配政府补贴的粮食和煤油。资格类别被用来决定每人可以领取多少补贴，该计划每月向数以百万计的民众分配小麦或大米，还有做饭用的燃料。
But the system has been mired in corruption. Many of those eligible either never receive their benefits, or do not receive their allotted amount. Academic studies have found that 70 percent of the budget is wasted, stolen or used for bureaucratic and transportation costs. Many critics have called for gradually dismantling the Public Distribution System network and instead instituting a program that transfers cash directly to recipients.
但该系统深陷腐败之中。有资格获得补贴的人不是从未获得福利，就是没有获得应有的数额。学术研究发现，该项目有70%的预算被浪费、窃取或被用于官僚及交通支出。很多批评者呼吁逐渐取消公共分配系统网络，代之以直接向受助者发放现金的计划。
Mr. Drèze said the current proposal had included different programs for using cash transfers but that, over all, the system was not prepared for such a significant change. He said the new plan should eliminate some of the existing corruption.
德雷兹说，当前的提案中包括了启用现金转移的多个计划，但总的来说，系统还没有准备好做出如此重大的改变。他表示，新计划应该消除现有的一些腐败现象。
“Why not act on what you have?” he said of the existing distribution network. “Cash transfers will take a lot of time to put in place.”
“为什么不根据现有资源采取行动呢？”他在谈到当下的分配网络时说。“落实现金转移将耗费太多时间。”