TAIPEI, Taiwan — Representatives of Taiwan and China held their first official talks Tuesday since the end of China’s civil war in 1949, a meeting expected to produce few concrete results but one that marked a symbolic development in the easing of the two sides’ longtime rivalry.
台湾台北——台湾和中国的代表周二举行了自1949年内战结束以来的首次正式会晤，预计会晤不会产生多少具体结果，但对缓解两岸长期以来的敌对关系来说，这是具有象征性意义的进展。
The setting was a resort hotel in the Chinese city of Nanjing, which was at times the capital of Chiang Kai-shek’s Republic of China before its government fled to Taiwan after being defeated by Mao Zedong’s Communist forces.
此次会晤地点是南京的一家度假酒店，南京是蒋介石领导的中华民国的首都，中华民国政府被毛泽东领导的共产党军队打败后逃到了台湾。
“Before today’s meeting, it was hard to imagine that cross-strait relations could get to this point,” said Wang Yu-chi, head of Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council.
台湾行政院大陆委员会(MAC)主任委员王郁琦说，“在今天会晤以前，很难想象两岸关系会走到这个地步。”
The improved ties were “hard earned through efforts of generations,” said Zhang Zhijun, head of China’s Taiwan Affairs Office, according to the state-run Xinhua news service. “We should cherish it and work together to maintain this favorable momentum.”
据国家通讯社新华社报道，国务院台湾事务办公室主任张志军说，两岸关系能有今天的局面“实属不易，也凝聚了两岸无数人的心血和付出，应倍加珍惜，维护好并继续推动两岸关系的良好势头。”
China considers Taiwan to be a part of its territory that must eventually be reunited. It has reacted angrily in the past to steps seen as moving the self-governed island toward formal independence.
中国认为台湾是其领土的一部分，两者最终必将实现统一。大陆方面过去对那些被视为将自治的台湾推向正式独立的做法一直表示愤怒。
In 1995 and 1996, it fired missiles into waters around Taiwan ahead of its first democratic presidential election, and it regularly denounced Chen Shui-bian, Taiwan’s independent-leaning president from 2000 to 2008.
1995年和1996年在台湾进行首次民主总统选举前夕，大陆曾向台湾附近的海域发射导弹，大陆方面也曾不断谴责有独立倾向的陈水扁，他在2000到2008年期间担任过台湾总统。
Following the 2008 election of President Ma Ying-jeou, who favors closer ties with the mainland, Beijing has taken a more conciliatory approach. Cross-strait trade has nearly doubled over the course of Mr. Ma’s presidency, reaching $197 billion last year. Nearly three million Chinese traveled to Taiwan last year, constituting the largest single group of visitors following Taiwan’s easing of restrictions on mainland arrivals starting in 2008.
2008年的选举让支持与大陆增进关系的马英九总统上台，那以后，北京缓和了对台湾的态度。马英九上任以来，两岸的贸易额几乎翻了一番，去年达到1970亿美元（约合1.19万亿元人民币）。去年有近300万大陆人去台湾旅游，他们成为台湾自2008年放松对大陆游客限制以来最大的一个游客群体。
The two sides signed a landmark trade agreement, the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, in 2010. Those negotiations were carried out by semiofficial bodies: Taiwan’s Straits Exchange Foundation and China’s Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits.
2010年两岸签署了标志性的两岸经济合作框架协议(Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement)。该协议的谈判是在半官方机构之间开展的：台湾方面是海峡交流基金会(Straits Exchange Foundation)，大陆方面是海峡两岸关系协会(Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits)。
A follow-up agreement to the trade accord that lifts barriers on cross-strait trade in services has been held up in Taiwan’s legislature as it debates possible effects on Taiwanese companies.
框架协议签署之后的另一项协议旨在消除两岸服务业贸易面临的障碍，新协议仍在立法过程之中，立法委员们在讨论其可能给台湾企业带来的影响。
Until now, representatives of China and Taiwan have met only through unofficial organizations or through retired officials, as Beijing has resisted any steps that might be seen as recognizing Taiwan’s sovereignty.
到目前为止，大陆和台湾的代表只是通过非官方机构或退休官员发生接触，因为北京拒绝进行任何可能被视为承认台湾主权的做法。
Tuesday’s talks focused on ways to improve and formalize communications between the two sides. The two sides discussed trade and Taiwan’s participation in regional economic agreements. Mr. Wang also raised consular-type visits to Taiwanese detained on the mainland, health insurance for Taiwanese students studying in China and fair treatment of Taiwanese journalists working there, the Mainland Affairs Council said.
周二的会晤重点在于改善两岸的交流渠道，使之正规化。双方就贸易以及台湾参与地区经济协议等问题进行了讨论。行政院大陆委员会称，王郁琦还提出了对被大陆拘留的台湾人进行类似领事性探视、在大陆的台湾学生的医疗保险以及公平对待在大陆工作的台湾记者等有关问题。
He also planned to research the concerns of Taiwanese working in China. The final day of his trip, Friday, will include a visit to a school for Taiwanese students in Shanghai.
他还打算调查在大陆工作的台湾人所关心的问题。周五是他此行的最后一天，届时他将访问上海一家为台湾学生设置的学校。
While few breakthroughs are expected, the symbolism of the talks was considered noteworthy.
虽然预计不会产生突破性结果，但这次会谈的象征意义值得注意。
“They haven’t talked to each other on this level for 60 years,” said Jonathan Sullivan, a China specialist at the University of Nottingham. “The symbolic significance is there.”
诺丁汉大学(University of Nottingham)中国问题专家乔纳森·沙利文(Jonathan Sullivan)说，“他们60年来从未进行过这个层次的交谈。其象征性意义是明摆着的。”
If the two sides can reach an understanding on communication channels, such as establishing representative offices on each other’s soil, then the talks will have a practical importance as well, he said.
他说，如果双方能在交流渠道方面达成谅解，比如相互设立代表处，那么这次会谈也将具有现实的重要性。
“The fact that they’re willing to come together and talk like this demonstrates significant good will and sets a precedent for how the two sides will interact in the future,” said Mr. Sullivan.
沙利文说，“他们愿意在一起举行这样的会谈这件事本身显示了相当程度的友好意愿，这为两岸在未来将如何互动建立了一个先例。”
During an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Bali last year, President Xi Jinping of China said that a resolution to the political impasse between Taiwan and China could not be postponed indefinitely, a signal that he intended to take a more active approach to cross-strait relations than his predecessors.
去年在巴厘岛举行的亚太经济合作合会议(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)期间，中国国家主席习近平说，解决两岸之间的政治僵局不能无限期地推迟下去，此言传递了在两岸关系问题上他打算采取比前任们更积极的做法的信号。
The remaining two years of Mr. Ma’s second and final term as Taiwan’s president offer a short window for Beijing to try to forge closer ties. Mr. Ma’s approval rating has dipped as low as 9 percent over the last year amid concerns about Taiwan’s slow rate of economic growth and a series of missteps, including a failed attempt to force out the legislative speaker.
马英九的第二任、也是最后一任总统任期还剩下两年的时间，这对北京试图建立更紧密联系的努力来说，是一个短暂的窗口。由于人们对台湾经济增长速度慢的担忧，以及一系列的失误，比如未能迫使立法院议长下台等，去年一年中马英九的支持率一度下降到了9%。
That could hurt future presidential candidates from Mr. Ma’s Kuomintang, or Nationalist Party, and bolster the electoral hopes of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party.
这可能会给马英九所在的国民党未来的总统候选人带来不良影响，增加了反对党民进党在竞选中获胜的希望。
Beijing “knows that Ma is pro-China,” said Mr. Sullivan. “It doesn’t know what the next president will be like because the election is two years away.”
沙利文说，北京“知道马英九亲大陆。但不知道下一届总统会怎样，因为离下次选举还有两年时间。”
The Chinese government may want to use the current window “to try and institutionalize some contact mechanisms and lock in future political leaders in Taiwan,” he said.
他说，中国政府可能想要利用现存的窗口“尝试一些接触机制，并将其制度化，以此来限制住台湾未来的政治领导人。”
While tensions have eased somewhat in recent years, concerns about a closer relationship with China are widespread in Taiwan, said Tung Chen-yuan, an expert on cross-strait relations at National Chengchi University in Taipei.
台北国立政治大学的两岸关系专家童振源说，虽然紧张关系在近几年来有所缓解，但在与大陆建立更加密切关系的问题上，台湾存在着相当广泛的顾虑。
“Over the last five years, the Chinese government has made a lot of efforts to reverse this kind of trend in Taiwan, but they’ve been in vain,” Mr. Tung said. “They are anxious. They do not understand. And furthermore, if they would like to resolve the conflict between Taiwan and China, then they need to touch upon some critical issues such as reducing the possibility of military confrontation between Taiwan and mainland China.”
童振源说，“过去5年来，中国政府做了很多努力试图扭转台湾的这种趋势，但都是徒劳的。他们很迫切。但他们不明白。进一步来说，如果他们想要解决台湾与中国之间的冲突的话，他们需要考虑一些关键的问题，比如降低台湾和中国大陆之间出现军事冲突的可能性等。”
For now, a discussion of such topics is unlikely. Ahead of his departure, Mr. Wang cautioned that expectations for the trip should be low.
就目前而言，探讨这类问题的可能性不大。王郁琦在出发前曾警告说，对这次行程的期望不应太高。
“I don’t want to be overambitious,” he told reporters in Taipei. “If we just focus on how the Taiwan Affairs Office and the Mainland Affairs Council can in the future promote smoother cross-strait affairs, that’s good. You don’t want to overanalyze it.”
他在台北对记者说，“我不想显得太雄心勃勃。如果我们只是把目光放在台湾事务办公室以及行政院大陆委员会在未来能对促进两岸关系更加平稳做点什么的话，很好。你们不要过度解读。”