NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar — Since her party’s thumping election victory last month, Myanmar’s democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, has said little and made few public appearances. So when she emerged recently in her constituency, she was mobbed by reporters and photographers, eager for some hint about how her party will govern after the new Parliament is seated next month.
缅甸内比都——自缅甸民主领袖昂山素季的政党上个月在选举中大获全胜，她一直很少对外发言和露面。所以当她最近出现在自己的选区，便很快被记者和摄影师包围，他们急于获得一些有关下月新一届议会成员就位以后该党会如何施政的信息。
It was not to be. The 70-year-old national icon had come to pick up trash, an exercise described by her party as bringing change through acts of individual responsibility.
他们没有听到这方面的信息。这位70岁的国家偶像是去捡垃圾的，她领导的民盟称这项行动是通过履行个人责任给社会带来改变。
“Don’t just take photos,” she scolded the photographers as she crouched to the shrubs covering the sandy soil of the Irrawaddy Delta and began picking up bits of trash. “Help pick up the garbage.”
“不要只顾拍照，帮忙捡垃圾，”她一边俯身到遍布伊洛瓦底江三角洲砂土上的灌木丛里捡起一小块一小块的垃圾，一边训斥摄影师。
During the six weeks since she emerged as the most powerful person in this country of 51 million people, she has kept the country guessing on details of the transfer of power to her democracy movement from the military establishment that has ruled for more than five decades.
六周前，她成为了这个有5100万人口的国家最有权力的人，此后，她一直没告诉缅甸人民，从50多年的军政府统治转向她所倡导的民主制度，他们将具体如何实现权力交接。
She has done a lot of meditating, one aide said.
一名助手表示，她进行了很多深思冥想。
“She says when things are so complicated in her mind she meditates, and it gives her clarity and gives her simple answers,” said U Phyo Min Thein, a member of the party’s budget committee.
“她说脑子里要考虑的东西比较乱时，就会冥想，这能让她头脑清晰，并且找到简单的答案，”民盟预算委员会成员彪明登(Phyo Min Thein)说。
Nonetheless, behind the scenes, a transition is slowly starting to take shape.
不过，在人们看不到的地方，权力交接正慢慢发生。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has met behind closed doors with minority ethnic groups, members of her party and crucial figures in the military with whom she will have to share power. While the participants have given little public indication of what was said, interviews with senior officials on both sides suggest that she has quietly conveyed a message that she will not rock the boat too much, too soon.
昂山素季私下会见了少数民族组织、民盟成员和几位关键的军方人物，她将不得不和后者共享权力。尽管参与者甚少公开透露中间有过怎样的沟通，但是对双方高层官员的采访显示，昂山素季传达出这样一个信息，即她不会很快和很大幅度地打破现状。
Like Nelson Mandela, another former political prisoner and Nobel laureate who came to rule a country that had kept him as a political prisoner, she appears keen on building bridges with her former jailers.
和另一名前政治犯、诺贝尔和平奖获得者纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)一样，昂山素季似乎也热衷于修复她与之前囚禁她的统治者之间的关系。获释后，曼德拉成为了那个曾将他作为政治犯囚禁的国家的统治者。
“The first intention was to soothe their nerves, that they would not be harmed,” said U Win Htein, a senior party member and one of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s closest advisers. “We just said we didn’t want revenge, that we didn’t have a personal grudge and that we wanted to move forward and talk about the future.”
“首要的意图是安抚他们的神经，让他们知道自己不会受到伤害，”民盟高层成员、与昂山素季关系最紧密的顾问之一温丁(Win Htein)说。“我们只是表示，不想进行报复，我们对他们没有个人仇怨，我们想向前走，想讨论未来。”
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has told her party that it would “unwise” to push the military right now, he said. Despite the election landslide, party members still recall the last election they won, in 1990, which the military followed up with the arrest of party leaders and two more decades of dictatorial rule.
他说，昂山素季告诉民盟成员，马上对军方施压是“不明智的”。尽管这次他们取得了压倒性胜利，但民盟成员还记得上一次他们在1990年的选举中获胜后发生的事情：军方逮捕了几位民盟领导人，然后又进行了二十多年的独裁统治。
She has also reassured the bureaucracy, which is packed with former military officers. At a meeting with senior civil servants last week, she told them they should not fear losing their jobs when her party comes to power.
她也试图打消政府官员的担忧，他们当中很多人都曾是军人。上周与几位政府高官会面时，昂山素季告诉他们不要担心，她的政党取得政权后，他们不会丢掉自己的工作。
“She said she has no plans to terminate any government staff, none at all,” said U Win Myint, a member of Parliament for her party who attended the meeting.
“她说她没有任何解雇政府工作人员的计划，一丁点也没有，”参加这次会面的民盟议员温敏(Win Myint)说。
For years she has said that she wants national reconciliation, not revenge, but she has also promised to shake up the system.
多年来，她一直表示想实现全国和解，而不是进行报复，但她也承诺会对现有制度进行整顿。
Her party’s election manifesto calls for a reduction in the number of government ministries to “establish a lean and efficient government.” Before the election, she campaigned extensively to change the Constitution, which was written by the military and has a provision barring her from office.
民盟在竞选宣言中表示会减少政府部门数量，“建立一个精简、高效的政府”。进行大选之前，昂山素季曾到处开展竞选活动，提出要修改目前的宪法，该宪法由前军政府制定，其中有一个条款就限制她出任缅甸总统。
Her party now appears to be willing to wait.
现在，她的政党似乎愿意继续等待。
“We won’t be doing anything that will reduce the power of the army for the time being,” Mr. Win Htein said. “We have to convince them that we really aim for national reconciliation.”
“我们这段时间不会做任何会削减军方权力的事，”温丁说。“必须让他们相信，我们真的想实现全国和解。”
Analysts say it is hard to read how that approach has been received by the military. In one of the few public read-outs of the meetings she held with the military establishment, the grandson of the dictator Than Shwe wrote on Facebook that “everyone has to accept the truth that Daw Aung San Suu Kyi will be the future leader of Myanmar after winning the elections.”
分析人士表示，很难猜测军方会对这些举措作何反应。作为对昂山素季和军方的会见进行的为数不多的几次公开解读之一，缅甸前独裁者丹瑞的孙子曾在Facebook上写道，“每个人都必须接受这样一个事实，民盟赢得选举之后，昂山素季将成为缅甸未来的领导人。”
Yet possible signs of friction with the military have also emerged. Officials in the outgoing government have expressed annoyance at her alliance with Thura Shwe Mann, a former general who was the No. 3 official in the former dictatorship but who has since been spurned by the ruling party hierarchy.
但民盟与军方可能存在摩擦的迹象，也开始显现。即将下台的现任缅甸政府的一些官员曾表示，对昂山素季与缅甸前将领吴瑞曼(Thura Shwe Mann)结盟感到气恼，后者曾是缅甸前独裁政权的第三号人物，但在后来遭到了执政的统治集团的唾弃。
Mr. Win Htein said the party will be looking to ethnic minorities to lead some ministries, an effort to build even broader support for her government, and that the party would look to experts outside the party to run some “important ministries” such as energy.
温丁表示，民盟希望少数民族能领导一些部门，这项努力旨在为昂山素季政府赢得更广泛的支持。民盟还希望党外专家能领导一些“重要部门”，比如能源部。
Mr. Phyo Min Thein, of the party’s budget committee, said the party would seek to follow through on its promise to decentralize power after years of hierarchical governance.
民盟预算委员会的彪明登表示，该党将竭力实践其承诺，结束多年的等级管理制度，实行分权。
“Right now the system is top-down,” he said. “We need to turn that upside down.”
“现有的体系是自上而下的，”他说。“我们需要把它反转过来。”
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy, is widely seen as top-down, too. With the exception of a few senior members, the party has been largely a one-woman show since Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi helped found it in 1988.
昂山素季的政党全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)也被普遍看做是自上而下的体系。自昂山素季在1988年帮助成立民盟以来，除了少数几位高层成员，这个政党基本上只有昂山素季一个人说了算。
During her years under house arrest, she grew accustomed to confiding in a close-knit group of advisers.
在被软禁于自己的住所期间，昂山素季逐渐习惯于只信任一群联系紧密的顾问。
Given Myanmar’s crushing problems — drug trafficking, corruption, ethnic insurgencies, poverty and inadequate health and education systems — even some close aides worry that she needs a deeper bench.
考虑到缅甸存在很多极其严峻的问题，如毒品走私、腐败、少数民族叛乱、贫穷，以及卫生和教育制度的欠缺，就连一些关系密切的助手也感到担忧，认为她需要建立更广泛的根基。