FUKUSHIMA DAIICHI NUCLEAR POWER STATION, Japan — The part above ground does not look like much, a few silver pipes running in a straight line, dwarfed by the far more massive, scarred reactor buildings nearby.
日本福岛第一核电站——露在地面的部分看起来好像没什么，有一些以直线排列的银色管子，在旁边体量大得多、留有创痕的反应堆建筑映衬下相形见拙。
More impressive is what is taking shape unseen beneath: an underground wall of frozen dirt 100 feet deep and nearly 1 mile in length, intended to solve a runaway water crisis threatening the devastated Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station in Japan.
让人印象更深刻的是视线之外，地下正在成形的东西：一堵深达100英尺（约合30米）、近1英里（约合1.6公里）长的地下冻土墙，用来解决一场业已损毁的日本福岛第一核电站当前面临的渗水危机。
Officially named the Land-Side Impermeable Wall, but better known simply as the ice wall, the project sounds like a fanciful idea from science fiction or a James Bond film. But it is about to become a reality in an ambitious, and controversial, bid to halt an unrelenting flood of groundwater into the damaged reactor buildings since the disaster five years ago when an earthquake and a tsunami caused a triple meltdown.
它的官方名称是陆侧遮水壁，不过它更为人所知的简单名字是冰墙。这个项目听起来可能像是科幻小说或詹姆士·邦德(James Bond)电影中的花哨点子，但它即将变成现实。这是一个颇具雄心同时又不乏争议的项目，目的是阻止源源不断的地下水进入损毁的反应堆建筑。这一问题在五年前开始出现，当时一场地震和海啸导致三座反应堆熔毁。
Built by the central government at a cost of 35 billion yen ($320 million), the ice wall is intended to seal off the reactor buildings within a vast, rectangular-shaped barrier of man-made permafrost. If it becomes successfully operational as soon as this autumn, the frozen soil will act as a dam to block new groundwater from entering the buildings. It will also help stop leaks of radioactive water into the nearby Pacific Ocean, which have decreased significantly since the calamity but could be continuing.
日本中央政府耗资350亿日元（约合22.9亿元人民币）修建冰墙，是为了用一个巨大的、长方形人工冻土围墙将反应堆建筑封起来。如果最早能在今年秋天成功建成和运作起来，这些冻土将充当大坝，用以阻止新的地下水渗入反应堆建筑。它还将有助于防止泄漏的放射性污水流入附近的太平洋。自灾难发生以来，这种情况已经大大减少，但有可能还在持续。
However, the ice wall has also been widely criticized as an expensive and overly complex solution that might not even work. Such concerns re-emerged this month after the plant’s operator announced that a section that was switched on more than four months ago had yet to fully freeze. Some also warn that the wall, which is electrically powered, could prove as vulnerable to natural disasters as the plant itself, which lost the ability to cool its reactors after the 45-foot tsunami caused a blackout there.
不过，冰墙也受到了广泛的批评，被指为一项昂贵且过于复杂的解决方案，甚至可能不会奏效。在核电站运营方于本月宣布四个月多前启动的一部分墙体还没有完全冻起来之后，此类担忧再度显现。一些人还发出警告，表示这堵由电力驱动的墙壁，可能会被证明像核电站本身一样容易受到自然灾害影响。核电站就在45英尺高的海啸导致这里停电之后，丧失了冷却核反应堆的能力。
The reactor buildings are vulnerable to an influx of groundwater because of how the operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co., or TEPCO, built the plant in the 1960s, by cutting away a hillside to place it closer to the sea, so the plant could pump in water more easily. That also put the buildings in contact with a deep layer of permeable rock filled with water, mostly rain and melted snow from the nearby Abukuma Mountains, that flows to the Pacific.
反应堆建筑容易渗入大量地下水，这与运营方东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）在上世纪60年代建设这座核电站的方式有关。当时公司推掉了一片山坡，以便将核电站移到一个离海更近的地方，这样就能更方便地获得水源。这种方案也使反应堆建筑与位于深处的一层可渗透岩石相接触。这片岩石充满了水分，它们主要是雨水或附近的阿武隈山上融化的雪水，最终会流入太平洋。
The buildings managed to keep the water out until the accident on March 11, 2011. Either the natural disasters themselves, or the explosive meltdowns of three of the plant’s six reactors that followed, are believed to have cracked the buildings’ basements, allowing groundwater to pour in. Nearly 40,000 gallons of water a day keep flooding into the buildings.
直到2011年3月11日事故发生之前，这些建筑都成功设法将地下水屏蔽在外。外界认为，导致反应堆建筑地基断裂、进而使得地下水大量涌入的原因，要么是自然灾害本身，要么是随之而来的反应堆的爆炸性熔毁，这种情况出现在了核电站六个反应堆中的三个上面。一天能有将近4000加仑（约合150立方米）的水持续涌入这些建筑。
Once inside, the water becomes highly radioactive, impeding efforts to eventually dismantle the plant. During the accident, the uranium fuel grew so hot that some of it is believed to have melted through the reactor’s steel floors and possibly into the basement underneath, though no one knows exactly where it lies. The continual flood of radioactive water has prevented engineers from searching for the fuel.
地下水一旦涌入，就会具有高放射性，进而对最终拆除这座核电站的努力形成阻碍。在事故发生期间，铀燃料温度变得非常之高，乃至有人认为其中有一部分熔化后穿透了反应堆的不锈钢地板，可能进入了电站的地下部分，尽管没人知道它的确切所在。放射性污水持续充溢，使工程师无法搜寻这些燃料。
“We have to escape from this cycle of ever more water building up inside the plant,” said Yuichi Okamura, a general manager of TEPCO’s nuclear power division who guided a reporter through Fukushima Daiichi. About 7,000 workers are employed in the cleanup.
“不断有更多水在核电站内积聚，我们必须跳出这种循环，”东电核能运营管理部总经理冈村佑一(Yuichi Okamura)说。他曾领着一名记者在福岛第一核电站内走了一圈。目前有大约7000名工人受雇参与该核电站的清理工作。
The ice wall is a high-technology bid to break that cycle by installing what might be the world’s largest freezer. Pipes almost 100 feet long have been sunk into the ground at roughly 3-foot intervals, and filled with a brine solution supercooled to minus 30 degrees Celsius (minus 22 degrees Fahrenheit). Each pipe is supposed to freeze a column of soil about a foot and a half in radius, large enough to reach the ice column created by its neighboring pipes and form a seamless barrier.
冰墙是为打破那个循环所下的高科技赌注，方式是建造一台有可能为全球最大的冷柜。多条将近100英尺（约合30米）长的管子，以大约3英尺（约合0.9米）的间隔被埋入了地下，管子里充满冷却至零下摄氏30度的盐水溶液。依照计划，每条管子应该可以冷冻半径达1.5英尺（约合0.45米）的一片土，足以与相邻管道制造的冻土相接，由此形成一个无缝的屏障。
Engineers with the wall’s builder, the construction giant Kajima Corp., estimate that it will take about two months for the soil around a pipe to fully freeze. Solidifying the entire wall, which consists of 1,568 such underground pipes, will require 30 large refrigeration units and consume enough electricity to light more than 13,000 Japanese homes for a year.
据负责建造冰墙的建筑业巨头鹿岛建设株式会社(Kajima Corp)的工程师估计，一条管道周围的土完全凝固起来需要大约2个月时间。这堵墙总共有1568条这种地下管道，将之整体凝固起来需要使用30台大型制冷设备，并将消耗足以点亮1.3万个日本家庭一年的电量。
The technique of using frozen barriers to block groundwater has been used to build tunnels and mines around the world, but not on this scale. And certainly not on the site of a major nuclear disaster.
使用冷冻的屏障阻隔地下水的技术，一直被用于修建世界各地的隧道和矿井，但没有哪一个达到这样的规模。当然，也没有哪个工程是在一场大型核电站灾难的所在地进行的。
Since the start, the project has attracted its share of skeptics. Some say buried obstacles at the plant, including tunnels that linked the reactor buildings to other structures, will leave holes in the ice wall, making it more like a sieve. Others question why such an exotic solution is necessary when a traditional steel or concrete wall might perform better.
从一开始，这个项目就不缺少质疑者。有人表示，埋在核电站下方的障碍物，包括将反应堆建筑与其他建筑物连接起来的隧道，会给冰墙留下孔洞，使之更像一个筛子。也有人质疑是否有必要采取这么奇异的解决方案，指出采用常规的钢墙或混凝土墙，效果可能会更好。
Some call the ice wall a flashy but desperate gambit to tame the water problem, after the government and TEPCO were initially slow to address it. Adding to the urgency is the 2020 Olympics, which Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan helped win for Tokyo three years ago by assuring the International Olympic Committee that the water troubles at Fukushima Daiichi were under control.
有人称冰墙是为解决漏水问题而采取的华而不实、孤注一掷的冒险策略，因为政府和东电在最初解决这一问题时慢了一拍。2020年日本即将举办奥运会的事实，也加大了这一问题的紧迫性。三年前，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)向国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)保证福岛第一核电站的漏水问题已经得到控制，才帮助东京获得主办权。
“It’s a Hail Mary play,” said Azby Brown, a Japan-based researcher for Safecast, an independent radiation-monitoring group. “TEPCO underestimated the groundwater problem in the beginning, and now Japan is trying to catch up with a massive technical fix that is very expensive.”
“这是一场依赖运气的赌注，”独立辐射监测组织Safecast驻日本研究员阿兹比·布朗（Azby Brown）说。“开始的时候，东电低估了地下水的问题，现在日本试图依靠一套价格极其昂贵的庞大技术方案迎头赶上。”
Supporters and skeptics alike will soon learn if that gambit will succeed. After two years of work, Kajima finished installing the pipes and refrigerator units to create the ice wall in February. At the end of March, it switched on part of the ice wall for the first time — roughly half a mile that runs between the reactor buildings and the Pacific. Most of the other, uphill side of the wall was activated in mid-June.
支持者和质疑者很快就会知道，这种策略能否奏效。经过两年的努力，今年2月，鹿岛建设将用以打造冰墙的管道和冷冻机装配完毕。今年3月末，它首度启动了冰墙的部分墙体——大约有半英里长，隔在反应堆建筑群和太平洋之间。其余大部分上坡侧墙体则于6月中旬启动。
Kajima is freezing the wall in stages under orders from the Nuclear Regulation Authority, Japan’s nuclear watchdog. The authority is concerned that cutting off the groundwater too suddenly might lead to a reversal of flows, causing the radioactive water accumulated inside the reactor buildings to start pouring out into the surrounding soil, possibly reaching the Pacific. It has told Kajima to leave a half-dozen “gateways” in the uphill side that will not be closed until much of the contaminated water is drained from the buildings.
鹿岛建设正遵照日本的核监督机构原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)的指令，分阶段冷冻墙体。原子能管制委员会担心突然切断地下水可能引发回流，致使反应堆建筑内聚积的放射性污水开始往外涌，进入周围的土壤，还有可能抵达太平洋。该机构告知鹿岛建设，在建筑内的很大一部分污水被抽出之前，不要让上坡侧的五六处“出入口”处于关闭状态。
This month, TEPCO told the nuclear agency that the seaside segment of the ice wall had frozen about 99 percent solid. It says a few spots have failed to solidify because they contain buried rubble or sand left from the plant’s construction a half-century ago, which now allow groundwater to flow through so quickly that it will not freeze.
本月，东电告诉原子能管制委员会，海侧的那部分冰墙墙体已有99%被冻得结结实实了。它说个别地方因为含有碎石和沙子而无法固化，那些东西是在半个世纪前核电站施工过程中留在地下的，地下水可以很快地流过，所以不会结冰。
Tatsuhiro Yamagishi, a spokesman for TEPCO, said the company was trying to plug these holes in the ice wall with quick-drying cement. “We have started to see some progress in temperature decrease,” he said.
东电发言人山岸立裕(Tatsuhiro Yamagishi)表示，公司正试图用快干水泥封堵冰墙上的漏洞。“我们开始看到降温方面的一些成效，”他说。
Even if the cement helps make the ice wall watertight, skeptics question how long it can last. They point out that such frozen barriers are usually temporary against groundwater at construction sites. They say the brine solution used to chill the pipes is highly corrosive, which could make them break or leak. It is also unclear whether the system could break down under the stresses of operating in a high-radiation environment where another earthquake could lead to another power loss.
即便抹上水泥可以把冰墙变得滴水不透，质疑者依然怀有一个问题：它能撑多久呢？他们指出，这类冻土屏障通常是工地上用来隔离地下水的临时性措施。他们说，用以冷却管道的盐溶液具有极强的腐蚀性，可能造成管道破裂或渗漏。此外，该系统是在高辐射环境下运行的，地震如果再次降临，就可能又导致停电，目前尚不清楚它在这种压力下是否会发生故障。
“Why build such an elaborate and fragile wall when there is a more permanent solution available?” said Sumio Mabuchi, a former construction minister who has called for building a slurry wall, a trench filled with liquid concrete that is commonly used to block water.
“既然有长久之计可选，为什么还要弄如此复杂而又脆弱的冰墙呢？”前国土交通大臣马渊澄夫(Sumio Mabuchi)说。他呼吁建造地下连续墙，也就是通常用于防水的以液状混凝土填充的沟槽。