A comet that once promised to light up the night skies — then all but vanished, and later seemed to blaze back to life — is now fading away, astronomers say.
人们曾经期待会点亮夜空的一颗彗星一度几近消失，过了一阵之后似乎又重新闪耀登场。不过，天文学家们表示，现在它即将泯灭。
“I think for the most part it’s dead,” said C. Alex Young, the associate director for science in the heliophysics division at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. “The folks are finally pretty confident that’s the case.”
C·亚历克斯·扬(C. Alex Young)是美国国家航空航天局下属的戈达德航天中心(NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center)太阳物理学部门的科学副主管。该中心位于马里兰州的格林贝尔特。“我认为它大体消亡了，”他说，“伙计们终于相当确信，情况就是这样了。”
En route to its demise, the comet, ISON, has provided one twist after another. On Thursday, when it made its closest approach to the sun, the comet eluded observation, and scientists concluded that it had disintegrated and vaporized.
这颗彗星名为ISON。在走向灭亡的过程中，它发生了一次又一次的戏剧化转变。上周四，ISON到达了近日点，却没有被观测到。于是科学家们得出结论，它已解体，被烧化了。
Then, a few hours later, it reappeared. A bright spot at the head of the comet suggested that part of its icy nucleus had survived.
可几个小时后，它再次出现。彗头的亮点表明，它的部分冰核得以留存下来。
But the resurrection was short-lived. ISON faded again over the weekend. By Sunday, it was already so dim that its debris will no longer be visible to the naked eye when it passes through Earth’s region this month.
不过，这次复活的持续时间相当短暂。周末期间，ISON再次变暗。到了周日，它已十分黯淡，因此本月经过地球附近的时候，它的残骸不再可能被肉眼观测到。
“I really don’t think there’s a whole lot left,” said Karl Battams, an astrophysicist at the Naval Research Laboratory who has spent a week observing ISON at the Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona. “I’m very disappointed for the public, because we’re not going to see this beautiful object in the Northern Hemisphere skies.”
美国海军研究实验室(Naval Research Laboratory)的天体物理学家卡尔·巴塔姆斯(Karl Battams)在位于亚利桑那州的基特峰国家天文台(Kitt Peak National Observatory)观测了ISON一周时间。“我的确认为没剩下多少东西了，”他说，“我为公众感到很失望，因为我们不会在北半球上空看到这颗美丽天体了。”
Dr. Battams said the comet had probably fallen largely apart before its closest approach to the sun.
巴塔姆斯博士称，ISON很可能在到达近日点之前就基本解体了。
He said it was difficult to tell what was seen moving away from the sun. The comet may have possessed a small nucleus that has since vaporized. Or the ice that holds it together had already vaporized, leaving just a loose pile of rubble.
他还表示，很难讲后来被观测到背向太阳移动的东西究竟是什么。或许是ISON残余的一小块彗核，然后被烧化了；抑或是将彗核包裹在一起的冰挥发了，仅剩下一团松散的碎片。
“It’s also possible it was just a cloud of dust at that point,” Dr. Battams said.
“还有可能是，它到那时候只剩下了一团尘埃，”巴塔姆斯博士说。
The comet, discovered in September 2012 while still beyond Jupiter’s orbit, originated from the Oort cloud, a region of icy debris over a light-year from the sun.
ISON于2012年9月被发现，当时还在木星的轨道之外。它发源于奥尔特星云，也就是距离太阳超过1光年的碎冰云团。
For scientists, the excitement of observation is over, but the work of analyzing data to understand what happened will take weeks and months. The complete disintegration of ISON could give better information about its composition — and hints of how the planets formed — than if it had remained intact.
对科学家们来说，观测带来的兴奋已经过去，为理解发生的事情而进行的数据分析工作则将持续几周到几个月的时间。比起仍能幸存的情景，ISON的彻底解体会给出关于它的构成的更多信息，以及关于行星组成的更多线索。
“Scientifically, I don’t know if it gets much better than seeing the comet being ripped apart, falling apart right before your eyes,” Dr. Battams said.
巴塔姆斯博士说，“它就在我们眼前裂成碎片，分崩离析。科学上，我找不出比这更棒的事情了。”