MANY parents remember a moment when their toddler astounded them. Maybe he outpaced his playgroup at mastering a song. Maybe she knew an esoteric fact about outer space. They might quietly wonder: Is my child a prodigy?
许多父母都会记得某个被自己的宝宝惊呆的时刻。或许是孩子在幼儿游戏班里第一个学会唱一首歌，或许是她竟然知道关于外太空的一项冷知识。这些父母可能会悄悄猜想：难道我的孩子是天才？
Probably not. A prodigy is defined as a preadolescent child who performs at an adult professional level in a demanding field. True prodigies are incredibly rare. For every Joey Alexander lighting up the Grammys, there are thousands of talented but not prodigious child musicians.
很可能并不是。天才的定义是，一个孩子在步入青春期之前，就在某个要求甚高的领域有了与成人专业人士比肩的表现。真正的天才是极其稀有的。这世上每出现一个点亮格莱美(Grammys)舞台的乔伊·亚历山大(Joey Alexander)，同时就会有成千上万有才华、但称不上是天赋异禀的儿童音乐人。
We’ve known about child prodigies for a long time. In the 1700s, a young Mozart was composing symphonies and dazzling audiences. Academic investigations of prodigies go back at least 90 years.
我们知道神童的存在已经有好一段时间了。16世纪的时候就有个年幼的莫札特会谱写交响曲，让观众叹为观止。有关天才的学术调查也可追溯到至少90年前。
But we still don’t know what makes for a true prodigy. There’s no prodigy blood test or genetics screen. Nor do we know how they do it. How does an 8-year-old ace college courses? How can an 18-month-old recite the alphabet backward? This might not seem like a big deal. Whether a child is “officially” a prodigy has little impact on her life. Parents don’t typically seek treatment for a child because she is achieving too much.
不过我们还是无从得知，是什么造就了真正的天才。世界上没有能找出天才的血液测验或是基因筛查技术。我们也不明白这些人是如何达到这般境地的。一个8岁孩子为何能在大学课堂上领先群伦？一个18个月大的幼儿又怎能倒背字母表如流？这些问题看来可能不是那么重要。毕竟一个孩子是不是“正式认定”的天才，对她的人生影响微乎其微。家长通常也不会因为孩子的成就太高而为其寻求治疗。
But what if understanding prodigies would help us understand a seemingly unrelated condition, like autism?
可是，如果了解天才可以帮我们了解另一种看来毫不相干的病症呢？譬如说自闭症？
No link has yet been proved between autism and prodigy. Prodigies aren’t typically autistic (unlike savants, in whom extraordinary abilities and autism often coincide), and they don’t have the social or communication challenges that characterize autism. But some aspects of prodigy and autism do overlap.
自闭症与天才之间的关联，目前尚未得到证实。天才通常不是自闭症患者（他们不像那些有学者症候群的人，常在身负奇才的同时患有自闭症)，也没有这种病症特有的社交或沟通障碍。但这两者确实在某些方面有所交集。
Prodigies, like many autistic people, have a nearly insatiable passion for their area of interest. Lauren Voiers, an art prodigy from the Cleveland area, painted well into the night as a teenager; sometimes she didn’t sleep at all before school began. That sounds a lot like the “highly restricted, fixated interests” that are part of autism’s diagnostic criteria.
天才和许多自闭症患者一样，对自己感兴趣的领域有着几乎无法满足的渴求。萝伦·沃耶尔(Lauren Voiers)是来自克里夫兰地区的艺术天才，她在青少年时就常作画至深夜，有时甚至在第二天上学前，整夜都没阖眼。这听起来很像自闭症诊断标准的其中一项：“拥有高度局限、异常执迷的兴趣。”
Prodigies also have exceptional working memories. In a 2012 study led by one of us, Dr. Ruthsatz, all eight of the prodigies examined scored in the 99th percentile in this area. As the child physicist Jacob Barnett once put it during an interview on “60 Minutes,” “Every number or math problem I ever hear, I have permanently remembered.” Extreme memory has long been linked to autism as well. Dr. Leo Kanner, one of the scientists credited with identifying autism in the 1940s, noted that the autistic children he saw could recite “an inordinate number of nursery rhymes, prayers, lists of animals, the roster of presidents, the alphabet forward and backward.” A study on talent and autism published in 2015 in The Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders found that over half of the more than 200 autistic subjects had unusually good memories.
天才还拥有超凡的工作记忆。本文两位作者之一鲁思萨茨博士在2012年发表的一篇报告指出，她研究的所有八位天才，都在工作记忆这方面得到百分等级99的高分。就像神童物理学家雅各·巴奈特(Jacob Barnett)上《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目受访时说过的，“我听过的每个数字或是数学问题，都永远记住了。”极端的记忆力也是一向和自闭症关联的。里奥·坎纳(Leo Kanner)博士是在1940年代最早诊断出自闭症的科学家之一。他注意到有些自闭症儿童可以背诵“数量惊人的童谣、祷词、动物名称、总统名册、顺序或倒序字母表”。《自闭症与发育障碍期刊》(Autism and Developmental Disorders)在2015刊载了关于天分与自闭症的一份论文也指出，他们研究的超过200位患者中，有半数以上的人拥有非比寻常的极佳记忆力。
Finally, both prodigies and autistic people have excellent eyes for detail. Simon Baron-Cohen, an autism researcher, and his colleagues have described an excellent eye for detail as “a universal feature of the autistic brain.” It’s one of the categories on the Autism-Spectrum Quotient, a self-administered test Dr. Baron-Cohen helped develop that measures autistic traits. The prodigies in Dr. Ruthsatz’s 2012 study got high marks in this trait on the test. One of the subjects, Jonathan Russell, a 20-year-old music prodigy who lives in New York, described how startled he gets when the chimes on the subway are slightly off key.
最后，天才与自闭症患者都有明察秋毫的好眼力。西蒙·巴伦-柯恩(Simon Baron-Cohen)是研究自闭症的学者，他与同事曾称绝佳的眼力是“自闭症大脑的普遍特征”。这也是“自闭症谱系商数”(Autism-Spectrum Quotient)里的评量类别之一。这个量表是巴伦-柯恩建立的，用来检测自闭症的各项特征，大家可以用它来自行检测。巴伦-柯恩的其中一位研究对象乔纳森·拉塞尔(Jonathan Russel)住在纽约，是个20岁的音乐天才。他曾诉说自己在听到地铁的铃声稍微走音的时候，是如何饱受惊吓。
Beyond the cognitive similarities, many child prodigies have autistic relatives. In the 2012 study, half of the prodigies had an autistic relative at least as close as a niece or grandparent. Three had received a diagnosis of autism themselves when young, which they seemed to have since grown out of.
除了认知能力上的相似性，很多天才儿童还有患自闭症的亲戚。在2012年的那项研究中，有半数的天才都有一名患自闭症的亲戚，而且关系至少近至甥侄或祖父母。其中有三名天才在小时候曾被诊断为自闭症，不过他们长大后似乎摆脱了这种病。
There might even be evidence of a genetic link between the conditions. In a 2015 study published in Human Heredity, Dr. Ruthsatz and her colleagues examined the DNA of prodigies and their families. They found that the prodigies and their autistic relatives both seemed to have a genetic mutation or mutations on the short arm of Chromosome 1 that were not shared by their neurotypical relatives. Despite a small sample size (the finding rested on five extended prodigy families), the data was statistically significant.
甚至还有证据表明，二者之间可能存在基因上的联系。在2015年发表于《人类遗传》(Human Heredity)期刊的一篇论文中，鲁思萨茨博士和她的同事曾对多位天才及其家人的DNA进行研究。他们发现，这些天才及其患有自闭症的亲戚的1号染色体短臂位置，似乎都有一种或多种基因突变，这在他们其他的神经发育正常的亲戚身上是没有的。尽管这个抽样基数很小（这项发现是基于对五个天才的大家庭的研究），但从统计学角度讲，这个数据很值得关注。
Perhaps prodigies have a very specific and unusual form of autism: They have many of the strengths associated with the condition, but few of the difficulties. This makes prodigies potentially important not just for talent research but also for autism research.
或许天才们患有一种非常少见的特殊类型自闭症：他们拥有许多与自闭症有关的优势，但却很少有这类患者遭遇的那些困难。果真如此的话，天才就不仅对于人才研究而言非常重要，对自闭症研究也是如此。
Autism is, of course, notoriously heterogeneous, and an autism diagnosis doesn’t necessarily signify any single underlying biological anomaly. Even autistic siblings often have different genetic risk factors for autism. Some researchers have thus taken to referring to autism not in the singular, but in the plural, as “the autisms.”
当然，自闭症的种类极其繁多，一例自闭症诊断不一定就能指向某种潜在的生物学异常。就算是几个兄弟姐妹都患有自闭症，往往也是由不同的基因风险导致。所以一些研究人员在提及自闭症这个词时，往往喜欢用复数形式，而非单数。
We don’t want to give false hope. The potential connection between autism and prodigy does not mean that people with autism are actually all geniuses. Rather, the prodigies may be people who were at risk of having this condition, yet don’t.
我们不想让人产生不切实际的期待。自闭症和天才之间存在潜在的联系，并不意味着患自闭症的人实际上都是天才。实际上，天才有可能是存在患自闭症的风险但并未真的患病的人。
Scientists have revolutionized several areas of medicine by identifying “resilience genes” — mutations that protect against specific diseases. Researchers studying H.I.V., heart disease and Type 2 diabetes have turned conventional methodology on its head: Instead of focusing solely on those who have a particular disease, they have investigated high-risk individuals who remained healthy.
通过确认“抗逆基因”的存在，科学家们已经给好几个医学领域带来革命性的改变。“抗逆基因”是指为防止身体患上特定的疾病而出现的突变。艾滋病、心脏病和二型糖尿病的研究人员已经调转传统治疗的方向：不是只盯着已经患上某种疾病的人，而是对仍处在健康状态的高风险个体进行调查。
In theory, a similar approach could work in the study of prodigy and autism. Prodigies could act as the “high risk” but unaffected group that could advance our understanding of autism. It does not mean we could develop a treatment or cure, but it could offer major insights.
从理论上讲，天才和自闭症的研究也可以采用类似的方法。天才可以被看作尚未患上自闭症的“高风险”人群，可以帮助我们提高对自闭症的了解。我们不见得一定能从中找到一种治疗或治愈自闭症的方法，但我们可以加深对它的了解，这是非常重要的。
Scientists are making some progress in untangling the underlying biology of brain disorders. The National Institute of Mental Health, for example, has started the Research Domain Criteria initiative, an effort that ignores the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders categories. It instead focuses on integrating data from genetics, cognitive science, behavioral studies and other sources to build a new research framework for brain disorders. As Sarah Morris, the acting director of the project, said, “Ultimately the goal is that with better diagnosis you can get better treatment.”
在理清大脑功能失调的潜在生理因素方面，科学家们取得了一些进展。比如，美国国家心理健康研究院(The National Institute of Mental Health)开始进行一项名为“研究区域标准”(Research Domain Criteria)的创举。他们无视《精神障碍诊断和统计手册》(Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders)所做的分类，而专注于将基因研究、认知科学、行为研究及其他方面的数据进行集成，创建一个研究大脑功能失调的新研究框架。正如该项目代理主任莎拉·莫里斯(Sarah Morris)所说的，它的“最终目标是，有了更好的诊断，就可以更好地进行治疗。” 
Pinning down whether the child rattling off outer space trivia is a little advanced for her age or an actual prodigy may be about more than bragging rights. It could help us tackle part of the mystery of autism.
搞清楚一个口若悬河地讲述外太空知识的孩子，是相对于同龄孩子稍微有些智力超前，还是一个真正的天才，也许不只是为了明确是否值得夸耀那么简单。它还能帮助我们解开一部分自闭症的谜团。