In much of Argentina, where Lionel Messi lived until he was 13, native speakers replace the “y” sound with a “sh” sound. Yo, the personal pronoun for “I,” becomes “sho,” and calle, which other Spanish speakers would pronounce “ka-yay,” becomes “ka-shey.” The sound gives Argentine Spanish a slurry softness that resembles aspects of the Portuguese spoken in Brazil. More important to this story, that “sh,” and the fact that Messi has retained it all his life, has at times been the sole lifeline between the greatest soccer player in the world and the country he plays for.
在阿根廷的很多地方，当地人讲话时常常会将“y”的发音换成“sh”。代表“我”的人称代词“yo”就会变成“sho”；在世界其他地方，说西班牙语的人会将“calle”读成“ka-yay”，但在这里就变成了“ka-shey”。这种发音给了阿根廷式的西班牙语一种含糊不清的轻柔感，这和巴西人讲的葡萄牙语有点像。里奥内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)就是在这个地方一直生活到13岁。而这个故事当中更重要的部分在于，那个“sh”是梅西这辈子一直保留着的发音习惯。有时候，那就是这位世界上最好的足球运动员和他所代表的国家之间仅有的血脉联系。
Over the past nine years, Messi has led F.C. Barcelona to national and international titles while breaking individual records in ways that seem otherworldly. In 2012, he scored 91 goals in 69 games — a ridiculous number — for club and country, and he has been chosen by FIFA, soccer’s governing body, as the best player in the world an unprecedented four of the last five years. He is something of a freak, a blazing left-footer whose legs and spatial intuition operate at electrifying speed, and his performances in Europe have already put him, at age 26, on the short list of the greatest players ever.
在过去的九年中，梅西带领巴塞罗那足球俱乐部夺得一个又一个的国内外冠军，与此同时，他还以一种仿佛来自另一个星球的方式，打破一项又一项的个人纪录。2012年，他在代表俱乐部和国家队的69场比赛当中打进了91球——这简直是个荒诞的数字；而在过去五年中，他四次被足球运动的管理机构国际足联(FIFA)评选为世界最佳球员。他就是个怪物，一个摧枯拉朽的左脚选手，他的双脚和他的空间直觉一样，以闪电般的速度运转；而他在欧洲赛场的表现，让他年仅26岁就已经被列入史上最佳球员的候选名单当中。
And yet, for all of that, Messi has never won widespread devotion in Argentina. The main resistance to him, beyond his uneven play for the national team thus far, is that he isn’t Argentine enough.
然而，即使这样，梅西还是从来没有在阿根廷受到过普遍的爱戴。人们对他最大的抵触，除了他迄今为止在国家队的表现不稳定以外，就是他不够阿根廷。
Last month, I spent time in Buenos Aires and in Rosario, Messi’s hometown, where I heard versions of this critique nearly everywhere I went, from cabdrivers to coaches to professional commentators: Messi left Argentina too soon; he didn’t come up through the club ranks and play for a first-division side in Argentina, as other heroes like Diego Maradona and Carlos Tévez have done; he hasn’t sung along with the national anthem before games; he has no passion, no personality; he doesn’t “feel the shirt” of the national team the way other players do. The attacks have at times been so personal that Messi has reportedly considered quitting the national side. But the one thing nobody has ever denied is that when he speaks, Messi still sounds as if he’s from Rosario, and this small fact has kept the fragile connection alive. An Argentine soccer journalist, Martin Mazur, said: “The greatest gift for Messi during these years is that he never lost the Argentine accent. You can’t imagine what it would have been for him if he hadn’t had it. They probably would have killed him.”
上个月，我在布宜诺斯艾利斯和梅西的老家罗萨里奥探访了一段时间。在那里，无论我去什么地方，几乎都能听见上述批评的不同版本。从出租车司机到教练，再到专业评述员都说：梅西太早地离开了阿根廷；他并没有像其他诸如迭戈·马拉多纳(Diego Maradona)和卡洛斯·特维斯(Carlos Tevez)那样的偶像，在俱乐部梯队里成长，并为阿根廷顶级联赛球队效力过；他在比赛前也没有跟着一起唱国歌；他缺乏激情，没有人格魅力；他不像其他球员那样，在代表国家队时能够真切地“感觉到那件球衣”。这些攻击有时候会非常有针对性，以至于有报道说，梅西曾经考虑过退出国家队。但没有人否认过的一点是，当梅西说话时，他的口音仍然表明他来自罗萨里奥，而这一个小小的细节，让那种脆弱的联系一直得以保持着。阿根廷足球记者马丁·马祖尔(Martin Mazur)说：“这些年来梅西最大的天赋，就是他从来没有甩掉阿根廷口音。你无法想象，如果他没有了这口音会怎样。他们可能会杀了他。”
Exiting customs at Ezeiza International Airport, just outside Buenos Aires, you are greeted by Messi’s image, in an advertisement covering the glass doors that separate weary travelers from the scrum on the other side. Along the highway into town, he is there again, in an ad for an Argentine electronics manufacturer, and in downtown Buenos Aires, several enormous billboards bear his likeness. As a viable commercial entity, Messi is everywhere.
从布宜诺斯艾利斯郊外的埃塞萨国际机场(Ezeiza International Airport)关口走出来，首先迎接你的就是梅西的照片。疲顿的旅客和拥挤的接机人群之间的那道玻璃门，被一幅以他为主角的广告覆盖住了。在进城的公路边上，他又出现了——那是一个阿根廷电子产品生产商的广告。然后在布宜诺斯艾利斯市中心，好几个巨大的广告牌上都有他的形象出现。作为一个成功的商业营销实体，梅西无处不在。
And he is also nowhere. All it took was a single mangled pidgin Spanish description of why I had come — to try to understand what Messi means to Argentina — to get the kind man driving my cab to tell a different story. “We’ve always liked how Messi plays,” the driver, Dario Torrisi, told me, “but we don’t know who he is.” Everybody throughout the Americas loves Diego Maradona, Torrisi said, but “it’s not the same for Messi.”
而他又同样无处可寻。我只是用夹杂了英文的生硬西班牙语解释了一下此行的目的——来试图了解梅西对于阿根廷的意义——载着我的好心出租司机却说出了不一样的见解。“我们一直都喜欢梅西的球技，”司机达里奥·托里西(Dario Torrisi)告诉我，“但我们并不了解他。”他还说，美洲大陆的每一个人都爱迭戈·马拉多纳(Diego Maradona)，但“对梅西就不一样了”。
In Argentina, you cannot escape this comparison. Maradona is widely acknowledged as one of the greatest players in history; he had a successful club career in Europe, but, most important, he led the Argentines to a World Cup victory in 1986. The two goals he scored against England in the quarterfinals are among the most famous in the history of the sport, for very different reasons. The first was an illegal handball, the second a solo run from midfield that has become canonical as one of the greatest individual efforts in soccer. The high and the low, inextricable: This is Maradona, and to some extent Argentina, too. Maradona is bombastic, larger than life, loves to party, got heavily into drugs, makes questionable decisions and is always boiling over about something and making headlines. Argentines love him, even if they get weary of him. The taciturn Messi loses that competition before it starts.
在阿根廷，这是一个你躲不开的比较。马拉多纳被广泛认为是史上最伟大的球员之一；他在欧洲有成功的俱乐部生涯，但是最重要的，是他在1986年给阿根廷人带来了世界杯的冠军。他在四分之一决赛对英格兰时所打进的两球，均属这项运动的历史上最著名的进球之列，只不过这两个进球名留青史的原因很不一样。第一个是犯规的手球，第二个则是从中场开始的个人盘带直捣黄龙，后者成了足球史上最伟大的个人表演之一。高尚与低劣，大起大落，无从划分：这就是马拉多纳，某种程度上，这也就是阿根廷。马拉多纳性格乖张，不可一世，喜欢派对，也曾深陷毒癮；他时常做出令人质疑的决定，也总是四处点火，登上头条。即使阿根廷人已经受够了他，但还是爱他。在这一点上，不苟言笑的梅西从一开始就已经无法相比了。
Some think Messi has already outdone Maradona on the field — he has scored more goals at the club level, at a much younger age — while others think he won’t be Maradona’s equal even if he brings home the cup this year. The writer Martín Caparrós told me, “Maradona had the enormous advantage that he didn’t have to be like anyone else, and Messi has to be like Maradona all the time.”
一些人认为，梅西在球场上已经超越了马拉多纳——他在比马拉多纳年轻得多的时候，已经在俱乐部领域打进了更多的进球——而另一些人则认为，即使他今年成功地将世界杯带回家，他也不会达到马拉多纳的高度。作家马丁·卡帕罗斯(Martín Caparrós)告诉我：“马拉多纳非常有利的一点是，他那时候不需要跟任何人比较，而梅西现在每时每刻都不得不以马拉多纳为标准。”
In a gymnasium at the headquarters of the soccer club Huracán, I talked with Pablo Rodríguez, a former professional boxer. After making clear that he didn’t care much for the World Cup — what he said was phenomenally unprintable and sort of scary — and that the only team he cared about was Huracán, Rodríguez went on to explain the difference between Maradona and Messi. “Maradona developed his talent in the mud,” he said, referring to Maradona’s childhood in Villa Fiorito, a slum to the south of the city. “I don’t identify with Messi, who was born surrounded by cotton.” (Messi grew up in a lower-middle-class neighborhood in Rosario.) Carlos Tévez, who also came from a rough part of Buenos Aires, plays with “our identity,” Rodríguez said. “He’s more indigenous.” That day, Alejandro Sabella, the Argentine coach, announced that Tévez would be left off the national team for this year’s World Cup, and Rodríguez wasn’t thrilled about it. “In talking about identity,” he said, “I choose Tévez.”
在飓风竞技足球俱乐部(Huracán)总部的体育馆里，我采访了前职业拳击手帕布罗·罗德里格斯(Pablo Rodríguez)。他明确表示自己并不太关心世界杯，他唯一在乎的球队就是飓风竞技——他的具体措辞极不适合发表，甚至有点吓人——然后罗格里格斯接着就开始解释马拉多纳和梅西之间的区别。“马拉多纳是在泥泞中练就一身球技的，”他指的是，马拉多纳的童年在城南的贫民窟菲奥里托镇度过，“我对梅西没有身份上的认同感，他一出生就是被裹在棉布里的。”（梅西在罗萨里奥一个下层中产阶级的街区长大。）罗德里格斯说，同样来自布宜诺斯艾利斯穷人区的卡洛斯·特维斯，踢球时也带着“我们的标识”：“他更接地气。”那一天，阿根廷队主教练亚历杭德罗·萨维利亚(Alejandro Sabella)宣布，特维斯将不会入选参加今年世界杯的国家队大名单。对此，罗德里格斯并不开心。“要说身份认同感的话，”他说，“我选特维斯。”
As a small boy, Messi was a fussy eater. His favorite dish has always been the milanesa a la napolitana — a breaded beef cutlet with tomato sauce and melted cheese — that his mother cooked for him several days a week, but otherwise it could be hard to get him to eat. One of his early youth coaches in Rosario, a man named Carlos Marconi, discovered that Messi also enjoyed alfajores, a kind of chocolate cookie. According to an old TV interview with Marconi, they struck a deal: a cookie for each goal. The trouble was that Messi routinely scored four or five goals a game for his club, Newell’s Old Boys, and so, to motivate him, Marconi had to make it harder. Messi was tiny at the time, the best player on the field with the ball at his feet but shorter than everybody else by a long shot. To push him, Marconi announced a new regime: two alfajores for every goal Messi scored with his head. The next game, Messi dribbled through the entire opposing team, including the goalkeeper, then stopped at the goal line to flick the ball up into the air with his foot so that he could head it into the empty net. When he found Marconi’s eye in the stands, Messi smiled and held up two fingers.
小时候的梅西爱挑食。他最喜欢吃的永远是“milanesa a la napolitana”——一种铺上面包屑、涂上蕃茄酱和奶酪的厚牛肉片。他母亲一周会有几天为他做这个，但其他时间要叫他吃饭可能就难了。他在罗萨里奥早期的青年队教练之一卡洛斯·马可尼(Carlos Marconi)则发现，梅西还爱吃一种叫“alfajores”的巧克力曲奇。据马可尼在很久以前的一次电视采访中所说，他们约好了：进一个球给一块曲奇。问题是，梅西在他的俱乐部纽维尔老男孩(Newell’s Old Boys)通常都是每场进四五个球。于是，为了调动他的积极性，马可尼不得不增加难度。梅西当时很瘦小，脚下带球的时候，他是场上最好的球员，但比其他所有人都矮一大截。为了激励他，马可尼宣布采取新的奖励办法：梅西每进一个头球，就给两块曲奇。之后那场比赛，梅西带球盘过了对方整支球队，包括守门员，然后在门线前停下来，用脚把球勾到空中再用头顶进空门。梅西望向看台上的马可尼，微笑着举起了两个手指。
There are all kinds of stories like this about little Leo in Rosario, like the time he was locked in the bathroom for the first half of a game, broke his way out and then netted three goals in the second half for the win. The stories about the adult Messi aren’t actually that different — an epic solo goal against the Spanish team Getafe when he was 19, the miracle problem-solving, touch and change of direction in tight space against Atlético Bilbao last year, which reduced the famed commentator Ray Hudson to involuntary screams and an ill-considered attempt at Spanish. (Hudson is celebrated for his verbal flights, and Messi is his greatest muse. Over the phone, he described Messi as “a brilliant stardust footballer” and “a surgeon’s scalpel that would cut you to pieces in the most merciless way.”)
在罗萨里奥，有各种各样关于小梅西的故事。就像有一次，在一场比赛的上半场，他被锁在了厕所里，后来他破门而出，在下半场打进三球使球队获胜。成年梅西的故事也大同小异——他19岁的时候在对阵西班牙球队赫塔菲(Getafe)时有过一个惊世骇俗的单骑闯关进球，还有去年对毕尔巴鄂(Atlético Bilbao)，在狭小空间里奇迹般地触球变向把球带活，令著名解说员雷·哈德森(Ray Hudson)情不自禁地发出尖叫，并喊出一堆不着四六的西班牙语。（哈德森说话是出了名的天花乱坠，而梅西就是他最好的灵感来源。在电话采访中，他将梅西形容为“一个出色的魔术师球员”，“一把会无情地将你割成碎片的手术刀”。）
From a technical perspective, Messi’s greatest asset is his ability to run at speed with the ball stuck to his left foot — la pelota atada, as one Argentine described it. That dominion over the ball, combined with a furious top speed that he seems to summon from a dead stop, creates time and space that even other elite players can never hope to enjoy. When he’s on form, there is an inevitability to his play that transcends everything around him, like something foretold. The whole stadium knows he’s going to go to his left, and yet nobody can stop him. (To say nothing of the calmness and coolness and only-what’s-necessary technique with which Messi deposits the ball into the net, once it’s time for that.)
从技术角度说，梅西最强的武器是他能够在高速奔跑当中将球牢牢地粘着在左脚上——阿根廷人将此叫做“la pelota atada”。这种对皮球的绝对控制，加上他似乎可以从完全静止的状态瞬间提到迅猛的最高速，使他能够创造出其他顶级球员从来不敢奢望得到的时间和空间。他状态正佳时所施展的球技有种不可抗力，凌驾于周围的一切之上，仿佛事情早已注定。全场的人都知道他要突向左边，然而却没有人能够阻止他。（更不用说他的那股冷静和酷劲儿，只要等到时机合适，梅西就会用点到即止的技巧，将皮球放进网窝。）
But the real root of Messi’s genius is that he’s still the boy who made the goals-for-cookies deal. He plays like a boy: instinctive, free, with an acceptance of his own ability that would be arrogant if it weren’t so undeniable. When he first came to Barcelona as a 13-year-old, he was already himself. In training, he would score epic solo dribbling goals and then walk back as if nothing happened, to the astonishment of his new coaches. He expected such things, having never known any other way. Asked many years later whether he considered himself more Argentine or Spanish in terms of his style — a significant question, considering that legally he could have played for either national team — Messi said, “Argentine, because despite the fact that I have grown here and learned a lot in Spain, I never changed the way that I play, the way I have done since I was very small.”
不过梅西的天才，最根本还是在于他仍是那个想用进球来换曲奇饼的小男孩。他就像小男孩一样踢球：即兴、自由，对自己的能力充分自信。正因为他的能力是如此无可争辩，他的这种自信才不显傲慢。当他13岁第一次来到巴塞罗那的时候，他就已经在做他自己。在训练中，他会打进一些精彩绝伦的个人闯关，然后在新教练们诧异的目光中若无其事地走回己方半场。他早知道会这样，因为他从来不知道事情还会有别的可能。多年后你去问他，认为自己在踢球风格上更接近阿根廷还是更西班牙——这是一个别有深义的问题，因为在法律上他本可以在这两个国家当中选择他要代表哪一个——而梅西说，“是阿根廷，因为虽然我在西班牙长大，并且在这里学到了很多，但我从来没有改变我踢球的方式，我从很小的时候就一直是这样踢的。”
The city of Rosario is 180 miles northwest of Buenos Aires, tucked into a bend in the Rio Paraná. It is the birthplace of Che Guevara, the site of the first raising of the Argentine flag in 1812 and, according to an informal and often unsolicited survey of urban Argentine males, the prime breeding ground for Argentina’s most beautiful women. It was sunnier in Rosario, and warmer; a different feeling right away.
罗萨里奥市位于布宜诺斯艾利斯向西北180英里（约合290公里）的地方，坐落在巴拉那河的一段拐弯处。这里是切·格瓦拉(Che Guevara)的出生地，也是1812年阿根廷国旗第一次升起的地方。而且，据阿根廷城市男性人口的“非正式投票”表明，这里也孕育着阿根廷最美的姑娘。罗萨里奥的阳光更灿烂，气候更温暖，立刻给了人一种不一样的感觉。
Driving in, Jonathan Gilbert — an excellent journalist and my translator and savior in Argentina — pointed out the yellow-and-blue colors of Rosario Central, the local rival of Newell’s Old Boys, painted on the concrete traffic barriers along the highway. There are two premier-division teams in Rosario, and you’re for one or the other. We stopped at a restaurant called Comedor Central, run by a Central fan named Juan Yacob, who took on an expression of great physical bereavement when asked to speak about Messi. “Messi’s footballing life was developed in Europe,” Yacob said, with a dismissive sniff. The only story he wanted to tell was that at one point over the last year, an image of Messi in the Argentine national uniform had come onto the big screen in the Central stadium, and the fans were so annoyed that they booed until it came down. “No one can doubt his ability,” Yacob said. “But with Messi, you’re not going to sell anything to a Central fan.”
乔纳森·吉尔伯特(Jonathan Gilbert)是一名出色的记者，也是我在阿根廷的翻译和好帮手。在开上公路的时候，他指出了沿路水泥交通护栏上涂着的黄色和蓝色，那是纽维尔老男孩队在当地的死敌罗萨里奥中央(Rosario Central)队的主色。在罗萨里奥，有两支阿根廷甲级联赛球队，而你只能支持其中一支。我们在一家叫做“中央饭厅”(Comedor Central)的地方停下来。餐馆是一位叫胡安·雅各布(Juan Yacob)的中央队球迷开的。当被问到他对梅西有何评价时，他表现出一种仿佛失去亲人般的深切痛苦。“梅西的足球生涯是在欧洲发展起来的，”雅各布带着一种嗤之以鼻的不屑说道。他唯一愿意说的一件事，就是去年有一次，在中央队球场的大屏幕上出现了梅西穿着阿根廷国家队队服的画面，当时球迷们都愤怒至极。他们一直发出嘘声，直到画面消失。“没有人怀疑他的能力，”雅各布说。“但是没有一个中央队球迷会买梅西的账。”
The idea that club allegiance so far surpasses allegiance to the national team surprised me, though maybe it shouldn’t have. In my American ignorance, I tend to view the best national soccer teams as monoliths, connected to one another and to the game in ways that Americans can’t understand or replicate. But in reality they’re just like us, federated and disparate, coming together for a brief period of time and, under immense scrutiny, trying to make it all work. Old loyalties die hard, and new ones require a kind of heroism that Messi hasn’t yet supplied.
事到如今，人们对俱乐部的忠诚仍超过了对国家队的拥护，这样的想法令我吃惊，但或许我不应该吃惊。我有着美国人特有的无知，看足球领域里那些最好的国家队就以为，他们是铁板一块，而球员彼此间的联系还有他们对这项运动的情结，是美国人所无法理解也无法仿效的。但事实上，他们和我们一样，既连成一体又彼此相异，在某段短暂的时间里走到一起，在众目睽睽之下努力实现目标。老一套的忠诚挥之不去，而新的忠诚则需要某种梅西尚未能给予的英雄主义。
Even at the youth training ground of Newell’s, Messi’s old club and the place where he used to terrorize young prepubescents, the comments about him were pretty lukewarm. A couple of dads watching an evening practice said that they liked Messi well enough and felt some pride that he was from Rosario, but that they would rather see Newell’s win the first division than the national team bring home the cup. (The journalist Martin Mazur cautioned me not to take these claims too seriously. “That’s what they say now,” he said, “but just wait until the World Cup comes, and that’ll be the only thing they care about.” )
在梅西的老东家纽维尔俱乐部的青训场上，他曾经让那些即将进入青春期的少年们闻风丧胆。但即使在这里，关于他的评论也是不冷不热的。正在场边看晚间训练的两个父亲说，他们挺喜欢梅西，也多少为他来自罗萨里奥而感到自豪，但是比起国家队将世界杯捧回家，他们更盼望纽维尔夺取甲级联赛冠军。（记者马丁·马祖尔提醒我，不要太相信这些说法。“他们现在是这么说，”他说，“但世界杯到来的时候，你等着瞧吧，那将是他们唯一在乎的东西。”）
When Messi was 10, his maternal grandmother, Celia, died. She was the woman who first brought him to organized soccer and pushed the coaches to let her undersize grandson play with the older boys. (In his characteristic goal celebration, Messi crosses himself, kisses his right hand, then looks up to the sky and points both index fingers to the heavens. He has said that he is thanking Celia, who never got to see him succeed.) Around the time that Celia died, Messi, his family and the coaching staff at Newell’s began to realize that there was something abnormal about his size, something that might threaten his ability to develop as a player and as a person. A doctor diagnosed a growth-hormone deficiency; if Messi wanted to grow to a normal height — and have any hope for a professional career — he would have to give himself daily injections.
梅西10岁的时候，他的外祖母塞丽娅(Celia)去世了。是她带着梅西首次接触有组织的足球比赛，并且极力要求教练们，让她这个个头矮小的外孙跟年纪稍大的孩子们一起踢。（梅西标志性的进球庆祝动作，是在胸前划十字，亲吻右手，然后望向天空，两手的食指一起指向天堂。他说过，这是在感谢没能活着看到他成功的塞丽娅祖母。）也就是在塞丽娅去世的那段时间，梅西、他的家人以及纽维尔俱乐部的教练员开始察觉到，梅西的身高似乎是有点不正常，这可能会影响他成为职业球员，甚至影响他做一个正常人。医生将此诊断为生长激素缺乏症；如果梅西想要长到普通人的身高——并且保留一丁点儿成为职业球员的希望——他就必须每天接受注射。
The treatments were expensive, and for two years they were covered by his father Jorge’s job at a steel plant outside Rosario. When that coverage began to change, the Messis asked Newell’s for help, a request to which the club agreed. Accounts of what happened next differ, but after several months the Messis began to look for other ways to pay for the treatments. When a family friend with a contact at the rich and storied F.C. Barcelona offered to set up a tryout, the family went for it. Charly Rexach, the technical director at Barcelona at the time, happened to be gone, at the 2000 Olympics in Australia, when the Messis arrived. Messi worked out with the club for nearly two weeks, but it was Rexach’s final decision that the family awaited. As the story goes, upon returning to the training facility, Rexach asked the staff to put Messi on a field with older, taller boys. In the time it took him to walk three-quarters of the way around the field, Rexach decided that they would sign Messi, medical bills and all. Leo and his father soon moved to Barcelona, where Messi essentially went pro at 13. He would go to school, then to training at La Masia, F.C. Barcelona’s famed youth academy, come home, give himself a growth-hormone injection and then sometimes lock himself in his room so his father wouldn’t see him crying from loneliness. He didn’t come from the slums. But to say that he hasn’t suffered isn’t true.
这种治疗是昂贵的。有两年时间，这都是靠父亲豪尔赫(Jorge)在罗萨里奥郊外钢铁厂的工作来负担。当他的医保渐渐负担不了的时候，梅西一家向纽维尔俱乐部求助，俱乐部也同意了他们的请求。之后发生的事情说法不一，但总之，几个月之后，梅西一家又开始寻找其他办法来支付治疗费用。一位家族世交在富裕而历史悠久的巴塞罗那俱乐部有认识的人，当此人提议安排一次试训的时候，他们一家人就去了。梅西到达的时候，时任巴塞罗那技术总监查利·雷克萨奇(Charly Rexach) 正好去了澳大利亚出席2000年奥运会。梅西跟俱乐部练了近两个星期，但这一家人要等的是雷克萨奇的最终决定。后来的故事是这么说的：回到训练基地的雷克萨奇让教练员把梅西安排到场上，和更高更大的孩子一起踢；仅仅在雷克萨奇围着场边走了四分之三圈的时间里，他就下决定，他们要签下梅西，包下医疗费用和其他的一切。里奥和他父亲不久就搬到了巴塞罗那。这样，13岁的梅西实际上已经成为了职业球员。他要上学，然后在巴塞罗那著名的青训学校拉玛西亚训练，之后他就回家，注射生长激素药物。有时候，他还会把自己锁在房间里，不让父亲看到他因为孤独而哭泣。他的确并非来自贫民窟，但如果要说他没受过苦，那可不是真话。
Messi is still suffering, in his way. For years it was because of his underwhelming performance with the national team and the grief that came with it. But since the lows of the Copa América in the summer of 2011, when Messi was openly jeered by Argentine fans after the team was bounced in the quarterfinals, he has been playing better for his country. The tide turned in a World Cup qualifier against Colombia in November 2011, and since then the goals have finally started to come — including a hat trick against Brazil in a 4-3 Argentina victory the next year. (Brazil and Argentina could meet in the finals in Rio.) There is a sense that the new coach, Alejandro Sabella, has finally figured out how to build a team around Messi.
如今的梅西其实仍然在以某种方式受苦。多年来，这种痛苦都是由于他在国家队的表现不尽如人意，以及由此而来的伤心事。2011年夏天的美洲杯，他跌到了谷底。阿根廷队在四分之一决赛被淘汰，梅西则被阿根廷球迷公然嘲笑。在那之后，他在国家队的表现一直在提升。转折发生在2011年11月对哥伦比亚的世界杯预选赛，进球终于接连而至——包括第二年4比3战胜巴西队时的帽子戏法。（世界杯决赛阶段，巴西和阿根廷有可能会在里约相遇。）人们有种感觉，似乎新帅亚历杭德罗·萨维利亚终于搞明白了，应该如何围绕梅西组建球队。
Oddly enough, the suffering this year has mostly been at Barcelona, where Messi hasn’t been his best. For a club accustomed to winning titles, this past season has been a relative disaster. Messi’s friend and former coach at Barcelona, Tito Vilanova, died from throat cancer; Messi was hurt early in the year, sat out two months and seemed never fully to recover; Barcelona added the Brazilian star Neymar in a messy process that distracted attention from play on the field; and the team did poorly in national and international competitions, exiting the Champions League in the quarterfinals and losing the Liga title to Atlético Madrid on the very last day of the season. In that game, as in several others over the past few months, Messi looked uncharacteristically lost. (Keep in mind that he still played better than just about everybody else on the planet, scoring 41 goals in 44 games for Barcelona, but Cristiano Ronaldo won the Ballon D’Or — the player of the year award — for 2013, and it was deserved.)
说来也奇怪，在今年，痛苦的事却多数发生在巴塞罗那。梅西并没有表现出最佳的水准。对于一个已经习惯于赢取冠军的球队来说，过去这一个赛季算得上是个小小的灾难。梅西的好友、巴塞罗那的前主帅蒂托·维拉诺瓦(Tito Vilanova)因喉癌病逝；巴塞罗那通过含糊不清的手段引进了巴西球星内马尔(Neymar)，此事却分散了赛场上的注意力；球队也在国内和欧洲赛场表现糟糕，欧冠四分之一决赛出局，然后又在赛季的最后一天被马德里竞技队(Atlético Madrid)夺走了联赛冠军。在那场比赛中，梅西就像过去这几个月的好几场比赛那样，非典型地茫然不在状态。（但请记住，他的表现仍然比地球上绝大部分球员优异，代表巴塞罗那出战44场攻进了41球；不过2013年的金球奖——即年度最佳球员奖——却是由克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多[Cristiano Ronaldo]赢得，而且他是赢得实至名归。）
“Right now, Messi doesn’t feel good on the ball,” Marcelo Sottile, a writer for the soccer magazine Olé and author of a book about Messi, told me. “It’s like he’s tied up.” Nobody really knows why. Is he still hurt? Was he dissatisfied with his contract with Barcelona, which he recently renegotiated for the staggering net sum of more than $27 million a year? Did the birth of his son distract him? In Argentina, there has been a furtive hope that he’s simply saving himself for the World Cup. “We all hope that he’s a bastard,” Martín Caparrós told me, “betraying all that he held dear [at Barcelona] just in order to be good in the World Cup. Because if not, if he keeps playing like he has played the last two months, we’re gone.”
写过一本关于梅西的书的《奥莱》(Olé)足球杂志记者马塞洛·索蒂尔(Marcelo Sottile)告诉我说：“这段时间，梅西的球感并不好，就像被绑住了手脚一样。”没有人真正知道原因。他还有伤吗？他是对自己在巴塞罗那的合约还不满意吗？他最近才签下了新合同，税后年薪达到惊人的2700万美元。是他儿子的出生让他分心了吗？在阿根廷，人们都在暗自希望他只不过是在为世界杯而留力。“我们都希望他是个人渣，”马丁·卡帕罗斯告诉我说，“背叛了他[在巴塞罗那]所珍视的一切，一心只为了打好世界杯。因为如果他不是这样，而是一直就像过去这两个月那样的话，我们就完了。”
Ray Hudson told me: “The World Cup is coming at a time when there’s a question mark, suddenly and strangely, about one of the greatest footballers the game has ever seen. This is the last thing he needs now, after the year he’s had. And yet the weight of his country is on him. And he isn’t just going to a World Cup. He’s going to a World Cup in Brazil! As an Argentina player! That Argentina shirt that he’s worn, it’s always been heavy. This time it weighs 10 tons.”
雷·哈德森告诉我说：“世界杯到来的时候，奇怪的事情发生了。这项运动里最好的一个球员身上，忽然间产生了问号。在度过这样的一年之后，他最不想要的就是这种状况。但是现在整个国家的期望都压在了他的身上。他不仅仅是去参加一届世界杯，他是作为一名阿根廷球员，去巴西参加一届世界杯！他身披的那件阿根廷球衣，一直都很重。而这一次，它更是千斤压顶。”
And Messi is expected to represent that shirt without any real backing at home. As Sottile put it, pounding his hand on the conference table at Olé's offices in Buenos Aires, “No tiene hinchada,” meaning “he has no fan base,” no homegrown support. “There’s less room for forgiveness for Messi,” Sottile said. They’ve built the team around him, all hopes are pinned on him and yet nobody outside his teammates has his back. Leading your team to a World Cup championship is hard enough to do in a team game, even when everybody in your country loves you. The bar for Messi is so high — it’s not just if Argentina wins, but how — that it’s basically impossible for him to meet it.
而且可以预计，梅西要在没有家乡人支持的情况下身披这件球衣出场了。在布宜诺斯艾利斯《奥莱》杂志的办公室，索蒂尔拍打着会议室的桌子说道：“No tiene hinchada”——“他没有球迷基础”，没有来自本土的支持。“梅西被包容的空间就更小了，”索蒂尔说。他们围绕他组建了整个球队，所有的期望都寄托在他身上，但是除了他的队友之外，没有人替他撑腰。在一项团队运动当中，哪怕整个国家的人都爱你，要带领你的球队登上世界杯冠军宝座也是够难的。而梅西面前的坎儿却是那么高——不是阿根廷能不能赢的问题，而是怎样赢的问题——基本上，这样的高度是他难以企及的。”
While we were in Rosario, we made the pilgrimage to the place where Messi was born, 525 Estado de Israel, a house in a lower-middle-class neighborhood. Messi doesn’t live there anymore — apparently nobody does — but his family still owns it, and it clearly means something to him. Next door, we ran into a neighbor who has lived on Messi’s street for more than 40 years. When we asked if Messi was always out in the street chasing a ball around, he held his hand at his waist to indicate Messi’s height and then gave us a Bronx cheer to signal the general inanity of our question. Of course he was. For some reason, that one short moment made Messi’s existence feel real in a way that we hadn’t yet experienced in Argentina. He lived here, he played in these streets before anybody knew who he was. Now it has become this complicated psychological puzzle: Argentina needs him, he needs Argentina and the debts seem unsatisfiable. Messi rarely says anything revealing, but for an instant we could feel him here, this tiny boy with a talent so big it could fly him across the ocean at the vulnerable age of 13. This boy who rejected the advances of Spain’s national team to choose Argentina, the land of his birth, only to find that he could never really come home.
在罗萨里奥的时候，我们特地到梅西的出生地——以色列大街(Estado de Israel)525号朝拜了一番，那是一座位于下层中产阶级住宅区的房子。梅西不再住在那里了——那里也已经没有人住——但房子仍然属于他们家，而这对他来说，无疑还是有着一点意义。在隔壁，我们遇到了在梅西家这条街上住了40多年的邻居。我们问，梅西以前是不是总是在街上追着球跑。他把手放到齐腰高的位置，比划着梅西的身高，然后对这个无知的问题报以讥笑。梅西当然是那样的。在那短暂一瞬，不知为什么，梅西的存在忽然真实了起来，那是我们在阿根廷的时间里一直没有过的感觉。他确实曾经在这里生活过，就在这几条街上，那时候还没有人知道他是谁。而现在，一切变成了一个复杂的心理难题：阿根廷需要他，他也需要阿根廷，而这些债却似乎永远还不清。梅西绝少会从话语中透露出什么，但是有那么一刻，我们能在这里感觉到他。这个小个子男孩拥有如此巨大的天赋。那天赋令他在13岁这个弱不禁风的年龄就得以远渡重洋。这个男孩拒绝了更优越的西班牙国家队，而选择了阿根廷——他出生的地方，却又发现，这里无法再成为他的家。
There are always surprise stories at the World Cup, but Argentina has an easy draw in the group stage and should make the round of 16 without trouble. Barring injury, Messi will have his moment. On the field, he handles adversity well. When he gets hit, he gets back up, and he rarely makes a show of it; in a game sometimes disdained for operatic dives and melodramatic appeals to the referee, Messi rarely avails himself of either. Often, during his long arcing runs toward the goal, defenders come at him with the clear intention of cutting his legs out from under him, only to have the attempt somehow absorbed by the low-slung churn of Messi’s stride. He doesn’t want the foul to be called, because he is feeling it and wants to keep going. At times, he seems almost to grow new legs in midair.
世界杯上总是有意外的故事发生，但是阿根廷在小组赛阶段抽了一支好签，晋身16强应该没有什么困难。只要不受伤，梅西就肯定会有表现上佳的时刻。在球场上，他能够很好地面对逆境。被踢倒的时候，他会爬起来，而很少会小题大做；在这项时常充斥着演员般的假摔和夸张投诉的运动中，梅西很少那样做。在他沿着曲折的路线长途奔袭时，后卫们经常会冲过来，明摆着冲他的支撑脚扫过去，但这种意图却往往被梅西重心很低的步法化解。他不希望裁判吹犯规，因为他感觉来了，就想继续向前突。有时候，在飞奔当中他仿佛不止有两只脚。
Off the field, he’s not as nimble or resilient. Some of the criticism clearly gets to him. When he arrived home to begin training for the World Cup in May, he couldn’t make it out of the airport before people started questioning his knowledge of Argentina. He has always preferred to let his play speak for him, and this month may be his best and final chance to show the skeptics at home that he is worthy of the shirt. His place in history depends on it. “Here, we justify or condemn based on whether the ball went into the net or not,” the writer Eduardo Sacheri told me. “Messi is incognito, incognito until the result speaks.”
在场下，他却并没有那样的敏捷和坚韧。一些批评确实能伤到他。5月，当他回到祖国准备开始为世界杯训练的时候，还没走出机场，人们就已经在问他各种关于阿根廷的问题。他一向都更喜欢用他的球技说话，而这个月或许是他最好也是最后的机会了。他要向家乡那些持怀疑态度的人们证明，他配得上这件球衣。他的历史地位也将取决于这一次。“在这里，我们都是看球进没进网，来认可或斥责一个人，”作家埃杜阿多·萨切里(Eduardo Sacheri)告诉我说，“梅西还没有显露本色——直到有一天他能用比赛结果说话。”