Bringing the search for another Earth about as close as it will ever get, a team of European astronomers was scheduled to announce on Wednesday that it had found a planet the same mass as Earth’s in Alpha Centauri, a triple star system that is the Sun’s closest neighbor, only 4.4 light-years away.
周三，一组欧洲天文学家宣布，在半人马座阿尔法星系(Alpha Centauri)中发现了一颗和地球有着相同质量的行星。半人马座阿尔法星系是一个离太阳系最近的三合星系统，距我们仅4.4光年。这一发现也许是科学家寻找“第二个地球”的努力所得到的最接近的结果。
The planet is the lightest one ever found orbiting another star and — in the words of its discoverer, Xavier Dumusque, a graduate student at the Geneva Observatory — “it will surely be the closest one ever.”
这是迄今发现的、围绕着另一个恒星运转的、质量最小的行星，用其发现者、日内瓦天文台(Geneva Observatory)的研究生格扎维埃·杜穆斯克(Xavier Dumusque)的话来说，“它肯定是目前发现的最近的一个。”
It is presumably a rocky ball like our own, but it is not habitable. It circles Alpha Centauri B, a reddish orb about half as luminous as the Sun, every three days at a distance of only about four million miles, resulting in hellish surface temperatures of 1,200 degrees.
该行星很可能像地球一样，是个岩石球体，但是不适宜人类居住。它绕着呈微红色、亮度为太阳一半的半人马座阿尔法星B运转，每三天一圈，其轨道离阿尔法星B的距离为约400万英里（约640万公里），这导致它的表面温度极高、达1200摄氏度。
So this is not “Earth 2.0.” Yet.
所以它还不能算是“地球2.0”。
Astronomers said the discovery raised the possibility that there were habitable Earthlike planets right next door and that methods and instruments were now precise enough to detect them.
天文学家说，此发现增加了在近邻星系内存在可居住的、类地球行星的可能性，而且现有方法和工具已具有足够的精确度来探测此类行星。
“Very small planets are not rare,” said Mr. Dumusque, who is the lead author of a paper being published on Wednesday in Nature. “When you find one small planet, you find others.” He and his colleagues discussed the results on Tuesday in a news conference hosted by the European Southern Observatory in Garching, Germany.
杜穆斯克是周三发表在《自然》(Nature)杂志上的有关论文的第一作者，他说，“小型行星不罕见。你发现了一个，就会发现另外的。”周二，杜穆斯克和同事们在位于德国加兴(Garching)的欧洲南方天文台(European Southern Observatory)召开的新闻发布会上讨论了这些结果。
Astronomers were electrified by the news of the planet, but also cautioned that it needed confirmation by other astronomers, not an easy task.
发现该行星的消息令天文学家异常兴奋，但是他们也谨慎地表示，仍需要得到其他天文学家的确认，而这并非易事。
Debra Fischer, a Yale astronomer who has been searching for planets in that same system for years, said: “The discovery that our nearest neighbor has rocky planets is the story of the decade. I’d bet $100 that there are other planets that are there as well.”
来自耶鲁大学(Yale University)的天文学家黛布拉·费希尔(Debra Fischer)多年来也一直在同一星系内寻找行星，她说：“离我们最近的星系内存在着岩石行星，这个发现是十年来最大的新闻。我赌100美元，那里还有其他的行星。”
The discovery also underscored the allure of Alpha Centauri as a target of space and scientific exploration.
该发现还增强了半人马座阿尔法星系作为一个太空和科学考察目标的吸引力。
“This is close enough you can almost spit there,” said Geoffrey Marcy, an exoplanet astronomer at the University of California, Berkeley.
“那儿离我们如此之近，你几乎可以吐口痰过去，”来自加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)研究太阳系外行星的天文学家杰弗里·马西(Geoffrey Marcy)这样说。
Sara Seager, an astronomer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said in an e-mail, “I feel like we should drop everything and send a probe there to study the new planet and others that are likely in the system.”
麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的萨拉·西格(Sara Seager)在一封邮件中说，“我恨不得放下手中所有的事情，发一个航天探测器到那里，来研究这个新行星和那个星系可能存在的其他行星。”
There are three stars in that system. Alpha Centauri A, which is slightly larger and brighter than the Sun, and Alpha Centauri B, slightly smaller, are close companions, circling each other and passing as close as nine billion miles every 80 years. They in turn are being circled at a much greater distance, some one trillion miles, by a dwarf star that is known as Proxima Centauri because it is slightly closer to the Earth, due to that trillion miles, than the other two.
那个星系里有三颗恒星。其中半人马座阿尔法星A，体积比太阳稍大、亮度也更高，半人马座阿尔法星B，比太阳稍小些；它们是伴星，围绕彼此运转，每80年会在一个最近距离约90亿英里（约144亿公里）的位置相汇。而一个名为比邻星(Proxima Centauri)的矮星，在距这两颗恒星约1万亿英里（约1.6万亿公里）的轨道上绕着它们运转。之所以叫比邻星是因为，这个矮星离地球最近，比阿尔法星AB近约1万亿英里（约1.6万亿公里）。
The so-called habitable zone of Alpha Centauri B, where temperatures would be moderate enough for water and creatures like us, is about 65 million miles from the star, where a year would take 200 days or so, about the same as the orbit of Venus in our own system.
半人马座阿尔法星B所谓的宜居带，也就是气温适中、可以有液态水、适合我们这样的生物生存的区域，距该恒星约1亿公里远。如果这里有颗行星，其一年约有200天左右，与太阳系里金星的轨道周期大致相同。
Mr. Dumusque and his colleagues found the planet by the so-called wobble method, using a specially built spectrograph called HARPS on a 140-inch diameter telescope at the European Southern Observatory in La Silla, Chile, to track the host star as it is tugged to and fro by the planet’s gravity. After four years and 450 observations, they found that in the case of Alpha Centauri B, that tug imparts a velocity of about 20 inches a second, a leisurely walking speed.
杜穆斯克和他的同事用所谓的“多普勒方法”发现了这颗行星。他们用名为高精度径向速度行星搜索器(HARPS)的特殊光谱仪，来探测恒星受其行星引力影响而产生的微小速度变化。HARPS光谱仪安装在位于智利拉西拉(La Silla)欧洲南方天文台的一台直径为3.6米的望远镜上。他们在四年的时间里进行了450次观测，发现半人马座阿尔法星B受行星引力影响而产生的速度摆动约为每秒0.5米，相当于缓慢的步行速度。
That is the smallest wobble the Swiss team has ever observed.
这是该瑞士团队观测到的最小的速度摆动。 
A planet only four times as massive as the Earth would produce the same amount of wobble if it was out in the habitable zone and would thus be detectable by their instrument, Mr. Dumusque said. But it would take a long time. “If you want to find a planet at 200 days,” he said referring to the orbital period, “you need 8 to 10 years.”
杜穆斯克说，一颗质量仅为地球四倍的行星，如果它位于半人马座阿尔法星B的宜居带，它的引力将使恒星产生同样大小的速度摆动，因此会被他们的仪器探测到。但这需要更长的时间。他说，“发现一颗周期为200天的行星需要八到十年的时间”，200天是位于半人马座阿尔法星B宜居带行星的轨道周期。
Dr. Marcy said this was the kind of discovery that could reignite interest in other experiments like the Terrestrial Planet Finder, a space observatory for studying exoplanets that was once at the top of NASA’s wish list but is now languishing.
马西博士说，这样的新发现将重新激起人们对其他试验的兴趣，比如类地行星搜索者(Terrestrial Planet Finder)，这个探索系外行星的太空望远镜计划曾排在美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的希望一览表的首位，但后来被打入冷宫。
Two years ago, Dr. Marcy startled his colleagues at an M.I.T. symposium with a bitter criticism of NASA, the National Academy of Sciences and the planetary community itself for failing to define and sell advanced exoplanet missions. He went on to call for an international project to launch a scientific probe to Alpha Centauri.
两年前，马西博士在麻省理工学院的一次研论会上严厉批评了NASA、美国国家科学院(National Academy of Sciences)以及行星学术界本身，指责他们在确立和推动先进系外行星太空项目上的失败，很让同事们震惊。她接下来呼吁开展一个国际项目，向半人马座阿尔法星系发射科学探测器。
It could take hundreds of years, but such a mission, Dr. Marcy said, could jolt NASA out of its doldrums.
马西说，这可能需要几百年的时间，但这样的太空项目也许能激励NASA改变其萎靡不振的状态。
The new planet, Dr. Marcy said, “fits right into that rant.” He went on, “What a great scientific educational mission to have a probe out there, making its way decade after decade.”
马西说，新行星的发现“映证了那次慷慨陈词”。他继续说道，“一个遥远的探测器，十几年、几十年地在太空向目的地飞行，那将是一个具有多么伟大的科学和教育意义的项目”。