TOKYO — President Obama arrived here on Wednesday evening to begin a four-country tour of Asia, after first stopping in Washington State to survey the devastation left there by last month’s deadly mudslide. It was a fitting start, given that everywhere on this trip, he will witness the lingering fallout of disasters, natural and human-made.
东京——周三晚间，奥巴马来到这里，开始了他对亚洲四国的访问。到日本之前，他经停华盛顿州，视察了上个月致命泥石流所造成的破坏。这是个合宜的开端，因为他将在此次访问的每一站见到灾难——不论是自然灾难还是人为灾难——的残余影响。
From South Korea, where public outrage is surging in the wake of a ferry accident that has claimed the lives of scores of teenagers, to Malaysia, where the authorities face harsh scrutiny over their handling of a missing jetliner, Mr. Obama will encounter leaders under pressure from angry, often grief-stricken constituents.
韩国的轮渡事故导致上百名青少年丧生，公众的愤怒情绪正在高涨；马来西亚的官员则因为他们对飞机失踪事件的处理面临着严厉的评判。届时，奥巴马将与这些面临压力的领导人举行会晤，这些人的压力来自愤怒而往往悲痛欲绝的民众。
In the Philippines, the government has labored to recover from withering criticism of its response to Typhoon Haiyan last fall. Even here in Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was tripped up by the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster and faulted last summer for playing down the leaking of highly radioactive water from the plant.
菲律宾政府因为去年秋季对台风“海燕”的应对而受到了严厉批评，目前正竭力恢复元气。甚至在日本，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)也受困于2011年的福岛核电站事故，去年夏天还因淡化该核电站高放射性污水泄露事件而受到抨击。
White House officials, who have come with a busy agenda of economic and security issues, worry that the leaders — particularly President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, for whom the ferry tragedy is still unfolding — will be preoccupied when they meet with Mr. Obama.
白宫官员此行日程紧张，将对一系列经济和安全问题进行讨论。他们担心，这些领导人——尤其是仍在处理沉船事故的韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)——在会见奥巴马时不能心无旁骛。
“The South Korea visit could really be overshadowed by the ferry,” said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.
“韩国访问很可能会受到轮渡事故的严重影响，”一名高级政府官员称，他因事件的敏感性而要求匿名。
That would be a missed opportunity for the South Koreans, who appealed to the White House last fall to add a stop in Seoul when news surfaced that Mr. Obama was planning to visit Tokyo. It will be the president’s fourth trip to South Korea, the most he has made in office to any Asian country.
果真如此的话，韩国人将会错失良机。去年秋季，奥巴马计划访问东京的消息传出之时，韩国曾请求白宫安排奥巴马在首尔停留。这将是奥巴马总统第四次访问韩国，韩国是他就任以来访问次数最多的亚洲国家。
South Korean diplomats are characterizing it as a visit by an old friend — a pointed contrast to Mr. Obama’s more formal two-day stop in Japan, which includes an elaborate welcoming ceremony at the Imperial Palace, an audience with Emperor Akihito and a state dinner.
韩国外交官将此次访问定性为老友的拜访——这与奥巴马对日本更为正式的两天访问形成了鲜明对比。日本行程包括在皇宫举行的盛大欢迎仪式、觐见明仁天皇(Emperor Akihito)以及一场国宴。
Relations between South Korea and Japan have been deeply strained since Ms. Park and Mr. Abe came into office, with the two countries replaying World War II-era grievances. This month, Mr. Obama brokered a carefully orchestrated meeting of the leaders in The Hague that was meant to clear the air.
自朴槿惠和安倍晋三上台以来，韩国和日本的关系一直处于高度紧张的局面，两国都在重提二战时期的旧账。本月，经过奥巴马牵线，几位领导人在海牙举行了一次小心安排的会议，旨在消除日韩两国的敌对氛围。
On Wednesday night, Mr. Abe took Mr. Obama to dinner at Sukiyabashi Jiro, a rarefied sushi bar in downtown Tokyo with a celebrity chef. The restaurant seats 10 customers and is booked out months in advance.
周三夜晚，安倍晋三请奥巴马到数寄屋桥次郎餐厅享用晚餐。这家鲜有平民光顾的寿司店位于东京市中心，有一位名厨。餐厅只能容纳10名顾客，需要提前几个月预订。
The prime minister has raised hopes in Washington because of his commitment to overhauling the Japanese economy. The United States would like to announce progress, if not a signed deal, in trade negotiations with Japan during the visit, to help bolster an American-led regional trade pact known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
安倍晋三曾承诺全面改革日本经济，华盛顿对日本的期望由此提高。美国希望，访问期间即便无法宣布签订贸易协议，至少也能宣布与日本的贸易协商取得了进展，以便为美国主导的名为跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)的地区贸易协定提供支持。
While Mr. Abe is perhaps the least distracted of the leaders Mr. Obama will meet — the Fukushima disaster has largely receded — he faces a political fight in persuading Japan’s powerful farmers to open markets in beef and pork, which is critical to reaching a deal.
福岛核电站灾难基本上已经成为过去，安倍晋三或许是奥巴马将要会见的领导人中烦心事最少的一个，尽管如此，他仍然面临着一场政治斗争，需要说服颇有影响力的日本农民开放牛肉和猪肉市场，这一点对达成协议至关重要。
Japan received a symbolic gesture from Mr. Obama when he reaffirmed that disputed islands in the East China Sea that are at the center of a tense standoff between Japan and China are covered under the mutual defense treaty between the United States and Japan.
奥巴马重申，东海的有争议岛屿适用美日两国之间的共同防御条约，日本由此得到了奥巴马的象征性表态。相关岛屿是中日紧张对峙的焦点。
“We oppose any unilateral attempts to undermine Japan’s administration of these islands,” Mr. Obama said in a written answer to questions from the newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun.
“我们反对任何试图破坏日本对这些岛屿管辖权的单边行动，”奥巴马在书面回复《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri Shimbun)的问题时说。
In Seoul, administration officials said, Mr. Obama hopes to increase pressure on North Korea, which has reverted to a pattern of missile tests and other provocative actions. Yet Ms. Park’s attention is likely to be consumed by the ferry accident.
奥巴马政府官员称，访韩期间，奥巴马希望加大对朝鲜的压力，因为朝鲜已经回到了从事导弹试验及其他挑衅性活动的模式。然而，朴槿惠的注意力可能会被渡轮事故占据。
On Monday, Chosun Ilbo, the largest South Korean newspaper, said in an editorial, “People are descending into a collective sense of powerlessness, unable to trust the government with protecting them in emergency situations.” Ms. Park has characterized the ferry captain’s decision to abandon ship with passengers still trapped below decks as akin to murder.
周一，韩国最大的报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)在一篇社论中说，“人们正在陷入一种集体无力感，无法相信政府会在紧急情况下保护他们。”朴槿惠称，渡轮船长在仍有乘客被困甲板之下时决定弃船，这样的行为无异于谋杀。
Mr. Obama faces an even more delicate situation in Malaysia, which his advisers had hoped to celebrate as a reliable partner in counterterrorism operations and a model of a majority-Muslim democracy in Asia. Instead, it has become a byword for confusion and opacity in the wake of the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
在马来西亚，奥巴马面临的局面甚至更加棘手。他的顾问本希望把马来西亚吹捧成反恐行动的可靠合作伙伴，以及亚洲穆斯林占人口多数的民主国家典范。然而，在马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班消失之后，马来西亚成为了混乱和不透明的代名词。
With the United States already taking part in the painstaking search for the plane in the southern Indian Ocean, there is little more that Mr. Obama can do, except offer solace. He will also try to focus on other issues in what will be the first visit to Malaysia by an American president since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966.
鉴于美国已经在南印度洋参加对失联飞机的艰苦搜寻，除了表示慰问之外，奥巴马几乎做不了什么。作为自1966年林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)总统访问马来西亚以来首位到访该国的美国总统，他还会尝试关注其他一些问题。
In the Philippines, at least, Mr. Obama will be able to speak openly about the typhoon and offer help for the future. He and President Benigno S. Aquino III are expected to sign a deal to expand access to bases for American warships and planes rotating through the archipelago.
在菲律宾，奥巴马至少可以敞开谈论台风，以及将来会提供的帮助。他和菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)预计会签署一项协议，以便拓宽在菲律宾群岛轮岗的美国军舰和飞机进入基地的通道。
Filipinos had long been opposed to a major American military presence. But the response of Marines and ships sent from Okinawa, Japan, after the typhoon, at a time when the local authorities were overwhelmed, was a reminder that such an arrangement has some advantages.
长期以来，菲律宾人一直反对美国在该国部署大量军力。但台风过后，在灾区政府不知所措之际，从日本冲绳赶往灾区的海军陆战队(Marines)和舰船的反应提醒了菲律宾，类似的安排还是有一些好处的。