WASHINGTON — “Are you up?”
华盛顿——“你还醒着吗？”
The emails arrive late, often after 1 a.m., tapped out on a secure BlackBerry from an email address known only to a few. The weary recipients know that once again, the boss has not yet gone to bed.
这些电子邮件到得很晚，通常是在凌晨1点以后。它们发自一部安全的黑莓手机，发信电子邮箱的地址只有少数几个人知道。疲倦的收件人再次得知，老板尚未入睡。
The late-night interruptions from President Barack Obama might be sharply worded questions about memos he has read. Sometimes they are taunts because the recipient’s sports team just lost.
在深夜发出的电邮里，奥巴马总统或许会就他阅读的备忘录提出措辞尖锐的问题。但有时候仅仅是将收件人嘲弄一番，因为其支持的运动队刚刚输掉比赛。
Last month it was a 12:30 a.m. email to Ben Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser, and Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, telling them he had finished reworking a speechwriter’s draft of presidential remarks for later that morning. Obama had spent three hours scrawling in longhand on a yellow legal pad an angry condemnation of Donald Trump’s response to the attack in Orlando, Florida, and told his aides they could pick up his rewrite at the White House usher’s office when they came in for work.
上个月，他在半夜12点30分发邮件给副国家安全顾问本杰明·罗兹(Benjamin Rhodes)和白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)，告知他们，第二天早上就要发表演讲的他，已经把撰稿人发来的草稿重写了一遍。此前，奥巴马花了三个小时，在黄色便签本上草草写下就唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)对佛罗里达州奥兰多恐袭的反应进行谴责的愤怒言辞。他告诉自己的助手，他们上班时，可以到白宫总管办公室去拿他重写的稿子。
Obama calls himself a “night guy,” and as president, he has come to consider the long, solitary hours after dark as essential as his time in the Oval Office. Almost every night that he is in the White House, Obama has dinner at 6:30 p.m. with his wife and daughters and then withdraws to the Treaty Room, his private office down the hall from his bedroom on the second floor of the White House residence.
奥巴马自称夜猫子。作为总统，他把夜幕降临后独自度过的许多个小时，看得和他在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)里度过的时间一样重要。只要身在白宫，几乎每个夜晚，奥巴马都会在6点半和妻女共进晚餐，然后便躲进条约厅(Treaty Room)，那是他的私人办公室，从他位于白宫官邸二楼的卧室沿着过道走过去就是。
There, his closest aides say, he spends four or five hours largely by himself.
总统最亲密的助手称，他通常会在那里独自呆上四五个钟头。
He works on speeches. He reads the stack of briefing papers delivered at 8 p.m. by the National Security Council staff secretary. He reads 10 letters from Americans chosen each day by his staff. “How can we allow private citizens to buy automatic weapons? They are weapons of war,” Liz O’Connor, a Connecticut middle school teacher, wrote in a letter Obama read on the night of June 13.
他会为演讲做准备；会阅读国家安全委员会(National Security Council)专职秘书于晚上8点递交的大量简报文件；会浏览幕僚每天筛选的10封来自美国公民的信函。“我们怎能允许普通公民购买自动化武器？这些武器是为战争准备的，”康涅狄格州中学教师莉兹·奥康纳(Liz O’Connor)在一封信中写道。奥巴马在6月13日晚上看了奥康纳的信。
The president also watches ESPN, reads novels or plays Words With Friends on his iPad.
总统还会看ESPN的节目，看小说，或者在iPad上玩“朋友拼字”(Words With Friends)。
Michelle Obama occasionally pops in, but she goes to bed before the president, who is up so late he barely gets five hours of sleep a night. For Obama, the time alone has become more important.
米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)偶尔会过来看看，但她上床睡觉比总统早，后者则总是熬到很晚，以至于每晚的睡眠时间还不足5小时。对奥巴马而言，独处的时间已经变得愈发重要。
“Everybody carves out their time to get their thoughts together. There is no doubt that window is his window,” said Rahm Emanuel, Obama’s first chief of staff. “You can’t block out a half-hour and try to do it during the day. It’s too much incoming. That’s the place where it can all be put aside and you can focus.”
“每个人都会划出时间集中思考，毫无疑问那段时间就是他的个人时间，”奥巴马的首任幕僚长拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)说。“你总不能在白天专门拿出半个小时作思考之用。白天事情太多了。在那里则可以把一切都抛开，集中注意力。”
‘An Insane Amount of Paper’
“多到令人发狂的文件”
When Obama first arrived at the White House, his after-dinner routine started around 7:15 p.m. in the game room, on the third floor of the residence. There, on an old Brunswick pool table, Obama and Sam Kass, then the Obama family’s personal chef, would spend 45 minutes playing eight-ball.
奥巴马首度入主白宫的时候，晚餐后的日程安排通常从7点15分在白宫官邸三楼的游戏室开始。那里有一张古老的不伦瑞克台球桌，奥巴马会和他们家当时的私人厨师萨姆·卡斯(Sam Kass)玩上45分钟的黑八台球。
Kass saw pool as a chance for Obama to decompress after intense days in the Oval Office, and the two kept a running score. “He’s a bit ahead,” said Kass, who left the White House at the end of 2014.
卡斯认为，台球是奥马巴在椭圆形办公室里度过高度紧张的一天后疏解压力的出口。两人有记录比赛分数的习惯。“他领先一点点，”于2014年末离开白宫的卡斯说。
In those days, the president followed the billiards game with bedtime routines with his daughters. These days, now that both are teenagers, Obama heads directly to the Treaty Room, named for the many historical documents that have been signed in it, including the peace protocol that ended the Spanish-American War in 1898.
那些日子里，总统在打台球后会去哄女儿们睡觉。如今，两个女儿都已长成十几岁的大姑娘，他则直接走进条约厅，这个房间因为见证了许多历史性文件的签署而得名，包括为1898年的美西战争画上句号的和平协议。
“The sports channel is on,” Emanuel said, recalling the ubiquitous images on the room’s large flat-screen television. “Sports in the background, with the volume down.”
“电视被调到了体育频道，”伊曼纽尔回忆起条约厅内大屏幕平板电视上常常闪现的画面时说。“体育节目被当成背景，音量很小。”
By 8 p.m., the usher’s office delivers the president’s leather-bound daily briefing book — a large binder accompanied by a tall stack of folders with memos and documents from across the government, all demanding the president’s attention. “An insane amount of paper,” Kass said.
每天晚上8点，总管办公室都会为总统送来皮面的每日简报册——一个大大的活页夹，附带一大堆文件夹，文件夹里是来自各个政府部门的备忘录和文件，全都需要总统过目。“多到令人发狂的文件，”卡斯说。
“He is thoroughly predictable in having gone through every piece of paper that he gets,” said Tom Donilon, Obama’s national security adviser from 2010-13. “You’ll come in in the morning, it will be there: questions, notes, decisions.”
“完全可以预知，他会把摆在面前的文件一页不落地看完，”在2010至2013年间担任奥巴马国家安全顾问的汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)说。“早晨上班时你会发现，问题、注释和决定全都在那里。”
Seven Almonds
“七颗杏仁”
To stay awake, the president does not turn to caffeine. He rarely drinks coffee or tea, and more often has a bottle of water next to him than a soda. His friends say his only snack at night is seven lightly salted almonds.
想要保持清醒的总统并不会求助于咖啡因。他很少喝咖啡或茶，身旁常常放着一瓶水，少数时候会是苏打水。他的朋友说，他晚上唯一的点心是七颗微咸的杏仁。
“Michelle and I would always joke: Not six. Not eight,” Kass said. “Always seven almonds.”
“米歇尔和我常常开玩笑说：不是六颗，也不是八颗，”卡斯说。“一直是七颗杏仁。”
The demands of the president’s day job sometimes intrude. A photo taken in 2011 shows Obama in the Treaty Room with McDonough, at that time the deputy national security adviser, and John O. Brennan, then Obama’s counterterrorism chief and now the director of the CIA, after placing a call to Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan shortly after Japan was hit by a devastating magnitude 9.0 earthquake. “The call was made near midnight,” the photo caption says.
总统这份工作的繁忙有时会打乱安排。摄于2011年的一张照片显示，奥巴马和时任副国家安全顾问的麦克多诺，以及时任首席反恐顾问、现任中情局(CIA)局长的约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)一起呆在条约厅里——他刚刚在日本发生毁灭性的9级地震后不久，与当时的日本首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)通了电话。图说称，“电话是在接近午夜时分打的。”
But most often, Obama’s time in the Treaty Room is his own.
但大多数情况下，奥巴马会独自度过在条约厅里的时光。
‘Can You Come Back Tonight?’
“今晚你能回来吗？”
Obama’s longest nights — the ones that stretch well into the early morning — usually involve speeches.
奥巴马熬过的那些持续到清晨的漫漫长夜通常和演讲有关。
One night in June 2015, Cody Keenan, the president’s chief speechwriter, had just returned home from work at 9 p.m. and ordered pizza when he heard from the president: “Can you come back tonight?”
2015年6月的一个夜晚，总统的演讲撰稿人科迪·基南(Cody Keenan)刚刚在晚上9点30分结束工作返回家中，并定了披萨，就收到了来自总统的消息：“今晚你能回来吗？”
Keenan met the president in the usher’s office on the first floor of the residence, where the two worked until nearly 11 p.m. on the president’s eulogy for nine African-Americans fatally shot during Bible study at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina.
基南跟总统在白宫官邸一楼的总管办公室碰面，为了一篇悼词忙到了将近11点。悼词是写给9位非裔美国人的，他们在南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿以马内利非裔卫理圣公会教堂(Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church)内研习圣经期间遭到了枪杀。
In 2009, Jon Favreau, Keenan’s predecessor, gave the president a draft of his Nobel Prize acceptance speech the night before they were scheduled to leave for the ceremony in Oslo. Obama stayed up until 4 a.m. revising the speech, and handed Favreau 11 handwritten pages later that morning.
2009年，奥巴马获得了诺贝尔奖，基南的前任乔恩·法夫罗(Jon Favreau)在他们动身前往奥斯陆参加颁奖典礼的既定日期的前一晚，把获奖演说草稿发给了奥巴马。为了修改演讲稿，奥巴马一直熬到凌晨4点。那天早上晚些时候，他把11页手写的文字交给了法夫罗。
On the plane to Norway, Obama, Favreau and two other aides pulled another near-all-nighter as they continued to work on the speech. Once Obama had delivered it, he called the exhausted Favreau at his hotel.
在飞往挪威的飞机上，奥巴马、法夫罗以及总统的另外两名助手，差不多又熬了一个通宵，继续雕琢演讲稿。刚一发表完演讲，奥巴马就给酒店里筋疲力竭的法夫罗打了电话。
“He said, ‘Hey, I think that turned out OK,'” Favreau recalled. “I said, ‘Yes.’ And he said, ‘Let’s never do that again.'”
“他说，‘嘿，我觉得演讲还不赖，’”法夫罗回忆道。“我说，‘是呀。’然后他说，‘我们以后再也别做这种事了。’”