HOUSTON — In space, heads swell.
休斯顿——进入太空后，人会头昏脑涨。
A typical human being is about 60 percent water, and in the free fall of space, the body’s fluids float upward, into the chest and the head. Legs atrophy, faces puff, and pressure inside the skull rises.
人体大约60%的成分是水，在失重的太空中，体内的液体会倒流进胸部和头部。这时腿部萎缩，脸部肿大，颅内压力增大。
“Your head actually feels bloated,” said Mark E. Kelly, a retired NASA astronaut who flew on four space shuttle missions. “It kind of feels like you would feel if you hung upside down for a couple of minutes.”
“你的头会感觉很胀，”马克·E·凯利(Mark E. Kelly)说。他是美国国家航空航天局(NASA)执行过四次太空任务的退役宇航员。“感觉就像你头朝下吊了几分钟。”
The human body did not evolve to live in space. And how that alien environment changes the body is not a simple problem, nor is it easily solved.
人类的身体并不是为了在太空中生活而进化的。如此不同的环境对身体的影响并不是一个简单的问题，也并不好解决。
Some problems, like the brittling of bone, may have been overcome already. Others have been identified — for example, astronauts have trouble eating and sleeping enough — and NASA is working to understand and solve them.
有些像骨头易碎这样的问题已经被攻克。另一些问题也已经被认识到，举例来说，NASA正在努力研究和解决宇航员吃饭与睡眠不足的困扰。
Then there are the health problems that still elude doctors more than 50 years after the first spaceflight. In a finding just five years ago, the eyeballs of at least some astronauts became somewhat squashed.
但有些问题在首次太空飞行的50多年后还在困扰着医生们。就像五年前科学家才刚刚发现，至少有一部分宇航员的眼球存在着或多或少被挤压的状况。
The biggest hurdle remains radiation. Without the protective cocoon of Earth’s magnetic field and atmosphere, astronauts receive substantially higher doses of radiation, heightening the chances that they will die of cancer. How much of a cancer risk later in life is acceptable?
但最难以克服的难题还是辐射。没有了承担着保护茧作用的地球磁场和大气层，宇航员所承受的辐射剂量大大增加，也就加大了他们罹患癌症而死亡的几率。那么，多大的癌症风险是在可接受范围内的呢？
At the Johnson Space Center here, the home base for NASA’s human spaceflight program, scientists probably have until the 2030s to dissect these problems before the agency sends astronauts to Mars — a mission that would take about 2.5 years, or nearly six times the current standard tour of duty on the space station.
在NASA载人航天计划的总部约翰逊航天中心(Johnson Space Center) ，科学家们需要在2030年把宇航员送上火星前解决这些难题。这项火星任务将历时大约两年半，是当下在空间站执行任务时长的六倍。
The longest any human has been off Earth is almost 438 days, by Dr. Valery Polyakov on the Russian space station Mir in 1994 and 1995. (Two private organizations, Inspiration Mars and Mars One, have announced plans to launch a manned interplanetary flight sooner and have had no problem attracting people despite the risks, known and unknown.)
人类离开地球最长的记录是将近438天，由瓦莱里·波利亚科夫博士(Valery Polyakov)在俄罗斯米尔(Mir)空间站上创造。（“灵感火星基金会”[Inspiration Mars]和“火星一号”[Mars One]这两家民间组织宣布了在更早的时间进行载人星际飞行的计划。尽管有已知和未知的风险，计划还是吸引了相当多的人报名。）
NASA recently announced that it would continue operating the space station until at least 2024, in part for additional medical research.
NASA近期宣布，国际空间站会至少持续运营到2024年，一部分也是为了做更多的医学研究。
NASA officials often talk about the “unknown unknowns” — the unforeseen problems that catch them by surprise. The eye issue caught them by surprise, and they are happy it did not happen in the middle of a mission to Mars.
NASA管理层经常提到“不可预知的未知”——那些始料未及的问题让他们猝不及防。诸如对宇航员视力的影响这个问题就是突然间发现的，研究人员庆幸此类问题没有到火星任务的时候才显现。
In 2009, during his six-month stay on the International Space Station, Dr. Michael R. Barratt, a NASA astronaut who is also a physician, noticed he was having some trouble seeing things close up, as did another member of the six-member crew, Dr. Robert B. Thirsk, a Canadian astronaut who is also a doctor. So the two performed eye exams on each other, confirming the vision shift toward farsightedness.
2009年，迈克尔·R·巴勒特博士(Michael R. Barratt)在国际空间站停留了六个月。巴勒特博士不仅是NASA的宇航员，还是一名内科医生，在此过程中他意识到他看近物变得困难，同时六人团队中的另一人，同为医生的加拿大人罗伯特·B·瑟斯克博士(Robert B. Thirsk)也遇到了此问题。他们给彼此做了视力测试，确认了他们的视力在向远视眼发展。
They also saw hints of swelling in their optic nerves and blemishes on their retinas. On the next cargo ship, NASA sent up a high-resolution camera so that they could take clearer images of their eyes, which confirmed the suspicions. Ultrasound images showed that their eyes had become somewhat squeezed.
他们同时发现了自己的视神经有肿大的趋向，以及视网膜上在逐渐形成斑点。使用NASA之后给他们送去的高像素的摄像机，他们得以拍到更清晰的眼球照片，也证实了之前的怀疑。超声波图像显示，他们的眼球的确受到了某种程度的挤压。
NASA is now checking astronauts’ eyesight before, during and after trips to the space station.
现在，NASA在送宇航员去空间站之前、过程中和返回后都会检查他们的视力。
The issue turns out not to be new. Many space shuttle astronauts had complained of changes in eyesight, but no one had studied the matter.
这一问题其实并不新鲜。很多宇航员曾抱怨过视力变差的问题，但没有人深入研究过原因。
“It is now a recognized occupational hazard of spaceflight,” Dr. Barratt said. “We uncovered something that has been right under our noses forever.”
“这现在被认为是航天飞行的职业危害之一，”巴勒特博士说，“我们揭示了其实一直在我们眼前的问题。”
Dr. Barratt said the vision shift had no effect on his ability to work in space. The concern, however, is that the farsightedness may be just a symptom of more serious changes in the astronauts’ health. “What are the long-term implications?” he said. “That’s the $64 million question.”
巴勒特博士说，视力的变化对他在太空的工作并没有影响。但人们真正担心的是，远视也许只是航天飞行对宇航员身体严重影响的症状之一。“长期的影响有什么？”他说。“这是个价值6400万美金的问题。”
It is one of the many things NASA will be monitoring in the health of Scott J. Kelly, who will spend one year on the space station beginning in spring 2015: twice as long as his stay there in 2010 and 2011 and the longest for an American. A Russian astronaut, Mikhail Kornienko, will also make a yearlong trip to orbit then. Dr. Polyakov and three other Russian astronauts have already had orbital stays longer than that and returned seemingly not much the worse for wear.
视力的变化将是NASA密切观察斯科特·凯利(Scott J. Kelly)健康状况的其中一项内容。他将在2015年的春天开始在空间站生活一年，比他2010年和2011年待的时间多一倍，也是美国人在太空生活时间的新纪录。俄罗斯宇航员米哈伊尔·科尔尼延科(Mikhail Kornienko)也会在同一时间被送往轨道开始为期一年的考察。波利亚科夫博士和其他三名俄罗斯宇航员之前已经在轨道停留过更久的时间，他们回来的时候身体基本没有表面上的损伤。
John B. Charles, chief of the international science office of NASA’s human research program, is setting up the medical experiments, designed to figure out whether there are differences between a six-month stay and a 12-month stay. “Logically, you might say, how can there not be?” Dr. Charles said.
NASA人类研究项目国际科学办公室的负责人约翰·B·查尔斯(John B. Charles)正准备开展一项医学实验，专门研究6个月和12个月的太空停留是否有区别。“你也许会说，逻辑上看，怎么可能会没有区别？”查尔斯博士说。
But it is also possible that the body becomes acclimated to weightlessness after only a few months, and that the changes in vision and bones level off.
但是，也许身体只需要用几个月就可以适应失重的环境，视力和骨骼的变化也随之趋于平稳。
A decade ago, NASA scientists worried that astronauts were returning to Earth with weaker bones, their density draining away by 1 to 2 percent per month. In space, the body does not need to support its weight, and it responds by dismantling bone tissue much faster than on Earth.
10年前，NASA的科学家们担心宇航员的骨密度会每个月损失1%到2%，回归地球后骨骼会变得比之前脆弱。在太空中，身体不需要支撑其自身重量，结果就是骨组织比在地球上丢失得快得多。
NASA turned to osteoporosis drugs and improved exercises, like having the astronauts run while strapped to a treadmill. The up-and-down pounding set off signals to the body to build new bone, and NASA scientists reported that astronauts then came back with almost as much bone as when they had left.
之后，NASA开始使用治疗骨质疏松的药品，并且用绳子将宇航员固定在跑步机上锻炼等方法来加大运动量。这样，上下的碰撞会给身体传达生长骨骼的信号。NASA的科学家们表示，这之后，宇航员回来的时候和他们离开的时候有着几乎不变的骨密度。
“That was huge,” said Scott M. Smith, a NASA nutritionist.
“这是一大成果，”NASA的营养专家斯科特·M·史密斯(Scott M. Smith)说。
Because both the formation and destruction occur at accelerated rates, “we don’t know if that bone is as strong as when you left,” Dr. Smith said. But the scientists now feel that bone loss is not a showstopper for a long-duration mission.
因为骨头的形成和损失都在加速进行中，“我们并不知道骨骼是否和离开时一样强壮，”史密斯博士说。但科学家们现在可以放心，骨质疏松将不会成为干扰长期任务顺利完成的决定性因素。
For the eyesight issues, scientists have more questions than answers. They suspect that the adverse effects result largely from the fluid shift, the higher pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid in the skull pushing on the back of the eyeballs, but that has not been proved. And that theory does not explain why it usually affects the right eye more than the left, and men far more than women.
关于视力的问题，科学家们则有着更多的疑问。他们怀疑，对视力的不利影响是由于体液的倒流和脑脊髓液压在颅内给予眼球后部的压力所造成的。但此猜想并没有得到证实。这个说法也无法解释为什么对右眼的影响比左眼大，以及对男性的影响比女性大得多。
Dr. Smith has also found that the astronauts who experienced a shift in vision had increased levels of the amino acid homocysteine, often a marker for cardiovascular disease. That may suggest that a zero-gravity environment sets some biochemical process in motion.
史密斯博士还指出，视力变差的宇航员，体内的同型半胱氨酸水平也会增加，而这通常是心血管病的前兆。这也许表明，失重环境会激发体内的某些生物化学反应。
Artificial gravity could be generated by spinning the spacecraft like a merry-go-round, alleviating both the bone loss and the fluid shift. But that would also add complexity to a mission and raise the potential for a catastrophic accident.
让宇宙飞船像旋转木马一样转动可以创造人造重力，以此缓解骨骼流失和体液倒流问题。不过，这样做同时会给任务增加难度，并且加大毁灭性事故发生的可能性。
But the eye issue “could be something that drives us back to artificial gravity,” Dr. Barratt said.
但眼睛的问题“也许会成为让我们重新研究人造重力的契机，”巴勒特博士说。
Beyond the body, there is also the mind. The first six months of Scott Kelly’s one-year mission are expected to be no different from his first trip to the space station.
除了身体外，心理的健康也很重要。斯科特·凯利任务的前六个月，应该和他之前第一次的空间站之旅没有区别。
But Dr. Gary E. Beven, a NASA psychiatrist, said he was interested in whether anything changed in the next six months. “We’re going to be looking for any significant changes in mood, in sleep, in irritability, in cognition,” he said.
不过，NASA的精神科医生加里·E·贝文博士(Gary E. Beven)说，他很期待看到之后的六个月是否有所改变。“我们将会观察情绪、睡眠、兴奋度和认知方面是否有显著的变化，”他说。
For trips beyond Earth orbit, astronauts will be isolated from the rest of humanity. During the Apollo missions, there was a lag time of 1.3 seconds between a command from mission control and an astronaut’s hearing it, the time for a radio signal to travel the 240,000 miles from Houston to the moon. At Mars, the lags would stretch minutes, and real-time conversation with someone on Earth would be impossible.
在脱离地球轨道的航行中，宇航员们将和其他所有人类隔绝。执行阿波罗计划时，由于无线电讯号从美国休斯顿到达月球要经过24万英里（约合39万公里）的距离，地面指挥中心和宇航员的交流有1.3秒的滞后时间。而在火星上，滞后时间会长达几分钟，和地球上的人实时对话成为一件不可能的事。
The crew of a Mars mission — four or six astronauts in NASA’s current thinking — would have to be more self-reliant to solve any personality conflicts. Dr. Beven envisioned computer systems that could detect subtle changes in facial expressions or tone of voice, perhaps offering some suggestions for defusing tensions.
NASA目前设想的火星计划为四或六人的团队，更加需要依靠他们自己去解决人际纠纷。贝文博士展望了可以洞察到面部表情或说话语调细微变化的电脑系统，也许这可以为缓解紧张情绪提出建议。
In a Russian experiment in 2010 and 2011, six men agreed to be sealed up in a mock spaceship simulating a 17-month Mars mission. Four of the six developed disorders, and the crew became less active as the experiment progressed.
在俄罗斯2010年和2011年进行的实验中，六名男士自愿被封闭在仿制的宇宙飞船中，模拟17个月的火星计划。六人中的四人在过程中逐渐显露出了失调，团队也在实验的进程中越来越不积极。
“I think that’s just an example of what could potentially happen during a Mars mission, but with much greater consequence,” Dr. Beven said. “Those subtle changes in group cohesion could cause major problems.”
“我认为这项实验向我们展示了在火星计划中可能会发生什么，但在真实环境下会有严重得多的后果，”贝文博士说，“团队凝聚力中不易察觉的那些变化可以导致重大问题。”
Dr. Charles said he thought NASA could already send astronauts to Mars and bring them back alive. But given the huge expense of such a mission, he said it was crucial that the astronauts arrived productive and in great health.
查尔斯博士认为，NASA已经具备送宇航员去火星并保证他们活着回来的能力。然而，因为此项计划耗资庞大，必须保证宇航员到达火星时身体健康并且能够富有成效地工作。
“My goal,” he said, “is to see a program that doesn’t deliver an astronaut limping to Mars.”
“我的任务，”他说，“就是保证宇航员到达火星的时候不会病病歪歪。”