LONDON — The grainy black-and-white home movie lasts about 17 seconds. It shows a young Princess Elizabeth, the future Queen Elizabeth II, raising her hand in the air in the style of a Nazi salute, an apparent youthful pantomime. The queen mother and Elizabeth’s uncle, Prince Edward, who would become King Edward VIII, also make the gesture.
伦敦——在一段长约17秒、颗粒感很强的黑白家庭录影中，年轻的伊丽莎白公主，即后来的伊丽莎白女王二世，举手行了一个纳粹礼，显然是一场童趣的胡闹。做出同样姿势的还有女王的母亲以及伊丽莎白的伯父爱德华王子，即后来的英国国王爱德华八世。
Three days after the footage of the royal family, taken in 1933 or 1934, was published on the website of The Sun, the images of the young Elizabeth continued to reverberate throughout Britain on Monday. The story — under the headline “Their Royal Heilnesses” — has stirred debates about the limits of press freedom and royal privacy; the imperative of historical transparency; and whether an 89-year-old monarch should be judged for a gesture made when she was 6 or 7 years old.
这段王室家庭录影拍摄于1933年或1934年间，在《太阳报》网站发布它三天之后，本周一，伊丽莎白的这些儿时影像继续在英国掀起波澜。这篇名为《殿下万岁》(Their Royal Heilnesses)的报道引发了争论：对于新闻自由和王室隐私的界限，历史透明的重要性，以及一位89岁的君主是否应该因在6岁或7岁时的一个手势被说三道四，人们看法不一。
Indeed, some critics have assailed The Sun for publishing the video, saying it unfairly sullies the image of a future queen who was too young to understand the meaning of what she was doing. There has also been an outpouring of support for the queen, a beloved and unifying figure, on social media.
事实上有一些人在抨击《太阳报》(The Sun)发布录影的举动，说这种对未来女王的形象玷污是不公平的，当时她还太年轻，不理解自己做的事情的含义。在社交媒体上，这位受爱戴、极具凝聚力的人物得到了众多支持。
But other commentators have praised the newspaper for prodding a historical reckoning, saying it could enhance understanding of the royal family’s attitudes toward Nazi Germany, in particular those of Prince Edward, who has been accused of sympathizing with the Nazis. As Edward VIII, he renounced the throne in December 1936 to marry the American divorcée Wallis Simpson.
但也有一些评论者赞扬了该报对历史的真实展现，说此举可以让人们更好地理解王室对纳粹德国的态度，特别是爱德华王子的态度，之前就有人指责他同情纳粹。爱德华八世为了与离过婚的美国人沃利斯·辛普森(Wallis Simpson)结婚，在1936年12月放弃了王位。
“It is disappointing that film shot eight decades ago and apparently from H.M.’s personal family archive has been obtained and exploited in this manner,” Buckingham Palace said in a statement. It is not clear how The Sun obtained the footage.
白金汉宫在一份声明中说：“这段影像拍摄于约80年前，似乎是从女王陛下的个人家庭档案中获取的，它以这种方式遭到利用，令人深感失望。”目前尚不清楚《太阳报》是如何获得这段录影的。
Mayor Boris Johnson of London defended the queen and argued that the royal family could not have foreseen Hitler’s future barbarism.
伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)为女王辩护说，王室无法预见到希特勒后来的野蛮行径。
“It makes my blood boil to think that anyone should use this image in any way to impugn the extraordinary record of service of Her Majesty to this country,” Mr. Johnson wrote in The Telegraph. “She was a child, a tiny child, and she is making that parodic salute long before her family could possibly have grasped what Hitler and Hitlerism was really all about.”
“想到任何人可能以任何方式利用这些影像来抨击女王陛下的非凡功绩，我就感到自己的血在沸腾，”约翰逊在《电讯报》(The Telegraph)中写道，“那时她还是个孩子，一个年幼的孩子，她模仿别人行纳粹礼的时候，她的家人还远未明白希特勒和希特勒主义的真实企图。”
The Sun defended its decision to publish the images, saying it was a matter of history and in the public interest. “We publish them today knowing they do not reflect badly on our queen, her late sister or mother in any way,” it said.
《太阳报》为发布这些影像做辩解，说这是个历史问题，而且符合公众利益。它表示：“我们发布影像，是知道它们并不会对女王，以及她已故的妹妹或母亲造成任何不良影响。”
The film shows members of the royal family at their Balmoral estate in rural Scotland. At the time, the Hitler salute was being mocked in some quarters in Britain, and making the gesture did not necessarily signal support for him or his policies. “Families of all kinds larked around aping the stiff-armed antics of the faintly comic character with the Charlie Chaplin mustache who won power in Germany,” The Sun wrote.
这段录影显示了王室成员在苏格兰乡村巴尔莫勒尔别墅的情形。当时一些英国人嘲笑希特勒的敬礼，做出这个姿势并不一定就意味着对希特勒或其政策的支持。“当时各种家庭都会站在一起，模仿希特勒这种手臂僵直的古怪动作。这位德国掌权者有查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)式的胡子，略有点滑稽，”《太阳报》写道。
But some commentators have countered that by 1933 the Nazi Party was already on the rise. There had already been attacks on Jewish businesses, and the first anti-Semitic laws were passed in April of that year.
但一些评论人士反驳说，1933年纳粹党已经处在上升阶段。已经有犹太人的企业遭到攻击，同年4月，德国还通过了第一部反犹太法律。
Ben Judah, who is writing a book on London and the changing British identity, noted that in 1933, newspapers in Britain had accounts of Nazi repression. “Waking up to the image on The Sun made me feel that in the 1930s there was a whole world and depth of anti-Semitism about Jews being hidden behind regal demeanor and gentle froideur,” he said.
本·胡达(Ben Judah)是一名作家，正在撰写一本关于伦敦以及变化中的英国身份的书籍。他指出，在1933年，英国的报纸已经报道过纳粹的镇压行动。“看到《太阳报》上的影像，我觉得在1930年代，在帝王风范和文雅的泠漠之后，掩藏着广泛而深刻的反犹太主义，”他说。
Much of the coverage in the British news media of the affair has focused on the extent to which the footage suggested that members of the royal family could have been sympathetic to Hitler or Nazi Germany. The BBC wrote that in October 1937, Edward and his wife visited Germany, entertaining the notion that Edward could become “a figurehead for an international movement for peace on Hitler’s terms.” The couple met with Hitler, the BBC said.
英国新闻媒体对此事的报道纷纷聚焦在一个问题上：这段录影暗示了王室成员在多大程度上同情希特勒和纳粹德国。据BBC报道，爱德华和妻子在1937年10月访问了德国，让人怀疑爱德华会不会给“希特勒构想的世界和平运动充当傀儡”。BBC说夫妇俩与希特勒见了面。
The queen mother and her husband, King George VI, have been revered in Britain for their stoicism during World War II, in part because of their resolve to stay in London.
女王的母亲及其丈夫乔治六世国王因在二战期间表现坚毅而受到尊崇，部分原因是他们坚决地留在了伦敦。