The Chinese state-run broadcaster CCTV ran an exposé last week on prostitution in the southern city of Dongguan. The official response was a major crackdown, with more than 6,000 police officers arresting 67 people, closing 12 locations suspected of serving as brothels and suspending two local police station chiefs.
中国国家电视台CCTV上周曝光了中国南方城市东莞市的卖淫嫖娼活动。当地官方对此报道的响应是采取严厉的打击行动，出动了6000多名警察，拘留了67人，关闭了12家涉黄娱乐场所，两位当地警方官员也被停职。
The online reaction was, roughly: This is news?
网民对此事的反应大致如下：这是新闻吗？
Dongguan’s reputation as China’s Sin City is well known both inside and outside the country. CCTV’s exposé that Dongguan was home to many houses of ill repute was seen as about as revelatory as its October 2013 report that Starbucks coffee was expensive.
东莞作为中国“性都”的名声在国内外广为人知。CCTV对东莞是众多坏名声娱乐场所的大本营的曝光，与该电视台在2013年10月做的星巴克(Starbucks)咖啡贵的报道，在人们眼里具有同样的揭露性。
Online commentators and even some Chinese media outlets said that the CCTV report, which showed women parading on catwalks with price tags affixed to their dresses, focused too narrowly on the prostitutes without closely examining the reasons such illegal enterprises continue to thrive.
网上评论员以及甚至中国一些媒体都认为，CCTV此次的报道把注意力过于集中到卖淫者身上，报道中有服装上挂着标价的卖淫女走秀的场景，而没有认真调查为什么这类非法经营能继续繁荣下去的原因。
“CCTV did an undercover report, but what came out was superficial, with no deeper questioning,” wrote Li Jiajia, a television host based in Guangdong. “For example, why do so many young women end up in this profession? What are their stories? Why is Dongguan’s sex industry so developed and why can’t it be controlled?”Late Sunday the commentary section of the Guangzhou-based Southern Media Group wrote in a message on its Sina Weibo microblog that the backlash against the CCTV report was “instinctive reaction to the fear of power usurping the lower half of citizens’ bodies.” The post, which was later deleted, continued: It’s not that the media shouldn’t report on the sex industry. But far more worthy of attention are the violence in this oldest profession, the prostitutes’ living conditions and how, despite repeated crackdowns, all this continues under the protection of the powerful. Only the truth will end the weeping of the prostitutes of Dongguan.
广东一家电视台的主持人李佳佳写道，“央视报道是暗访调查，但只列出了现象，没有深度追问。比如为什么那么多女孩子从事这个行业，她们有什么故事；比如为什么东莞色情业如此发达、而且久禁不止。”周日晚些时候，总部位于广州的南方报业集团的评论部门在其新浪微博上写道，舆论对央视暗访东莞色情业的揶揄和反弹，“不仅是对报道本身的不满，更是对权力僭越要管住公民下半身的恐惧的本能反应。”这个后来被删除的帖子还写道，“媒体不是不能报道色情业，这个原始行业是否仍存在暴力血泪、娼妓们的生存状态，及其屡禁不止背后的权力庇护，更需要媒体关注。只有真相，东莞小姐才能真正不哭。”
In an interview last year with China Economic Weekly, Mayor Yuan Baocheng rejected the notion that Dongguan was a capital of vice, and said that the problems of gambling and prostitution were something faced by every fast-developing city.
东莞市市长袁宝成去年接受《中国经济周刊》采访时，拒绝接受东莞是“罪恶之都”的说法，他说赌博和卖淫嫖娼的问题，是每个快速发展的城市都面临的问题。