SOUTHEND, England — First she stopped heating her apartment. She put furniture in front of the radiators to forget they were there. She unscrewed light bulbs, cut the hot water and sold most of what she owned to feed her 2-year-old son.
英格兰绍森德——一开始，她停了公寓的暖气。她把家具挪到暖气片前面，免得自己想起这事。她拧下了电灯泡，切断了热水，卖掉了自己多数的东西，为的是填饱2岁儿子的肚子。
Then she blogged about it in a post called “Hunger Hurts” that soon went viral: “Poverty is the sinking feeling when your small boy finishes his one Weetabix and says ‘more mummy, bread and jam please mummy’ as you’re wondering whether to take the TV or the guitar to the pawn shop first, and how to tell him that there is no bread or jam.”
后来，她把这些写到了一篇名为《饥饿之痛》(Hunger Hurts)的博客文章里：“小家伙吃完一盒维多麦(Weetabix)，然后说，‘再来点，妈咪，请来些面包和果酱，妈咪。’而你在琢磨，是把电视还是吉他先拿去当掉，还有怎么跟他说，没有面包和果酱了。贫困就是这种让人丧气的感觉。”这篇文章迅速火了。
Jack Monroe, who changed her name from Melissa because “I’m just not a Melissa,” is an unlikely ambassador for Britain’s poor, although now one with a book contract worth 25,000 pounds, or $41,000. The sudden slide two years ago of this 25-year-old single mother into poverty and her plucky online diary chronicling the everyday reality of life on the bread line as “A Girl Called Jack” have turned her into a celebrity very much of her time: In austerity Britain she is an austerity star courted by politicians, charities and even supermarket chains. People routinely ask for her autograph.
她叫杰克·门罗(Jack Monroe)。之所以从梅利莎(Melissa)改成这样的名字，是因为“我一点也不像梅利莎”。她出人意料地成为了英国穷人的代言人，尽管她如今手握价值2.5万英镑（约合24.7万元人民币）的图书合约。这名25岁的单亲妈妈两年前突然陷入贫困，并以“叫杰克的女孩”的名义，大胆地在网上写下了日记，真实地描写日常的贫穷生活，使她成为了极能代表所处时代的名人：在手头拮据的英国，她是政客、慈善机构乃至连锁超市竞相追逐的省钱达人。人们常常找她签名。
Ms. Monroe has more than 31,000 followers on Twitter and now writes a weekly food column for The Guardian, with recipes costing less than a pound a head. Her austerity cookbook is due in February. More than once has she been told that she does not really “seem poor.”
门罗在Twitter上有超过3.1万名关注者，现在还在《卫报》(The Guardian)撰写每周一次的饮食专栏，主题是人均花销不到1英镑的菜谱。她的省钱烹饪书将于2月问世。人们不只一次对她说，她“看起来”并不“穷”。
“My parents are still together. They’ve always worked, I’ve always worked, I had a decent, well-paid job — but within the space of six months I found myself going to bed hungry,” Ms. Monroe said one recent morning in her kitchen. For most of 2012 she had £10 a week for food.
不久前的一天上午，她在自家厨房里接受采访时说，“我的父母还在一起。他们一直在工作，我也是，曾经有份收入不错的体面活——但是，不到六个月的时间里，我就发现自己要饿着肚子上床睡觉。”2012年的大部分时候，她每周的食品预算是10英镑。
Her story unsettles. There is no familiarity in her path to temporary poverty because Ms. Monroe, fresh-faced and articulate, is so eminently familiar herself. As a neighbor in this southern English seaside town put it: “She could be anybody’s daughter.”
她的故事令人不安。她暂时陷入贫困的轨迹之所以非比寻常，是因为青春活泼、口齿伶俐的门罗本人是那样地常见。正如英格兰南部这座滨海小镇的一个邻居所说的：“大家的女儿都跟她一样。”
It has made her a popular pawn in the debate about the future of the welfare state.
于是，在围绕福利国家的前途展开的讨论中，她成为了热门的棋子。
The Guardian dubbed her “the face of modern poverty,” proof that in post-financial crisis Britain neither a sluggish job market nor a shrinking benefit system can be relied upon to maintain a basic living standard. The opposition Labour Party recruited her for a campaign against high energy prices. The charity Oxfam made her one of its “ambassadors,” and the supermarket chain Sainsbury’s picked her for a television spot.
《卫报》称她为“当代贫困的代言人”，证明了在金融危机后的英国，无论是疲软的就业市场，还是不断缩水的福利体系，都不足以支撑基本的生活标准。反对党工党(Labour Party)招募她参与抗议能源高价的宣传活动；慈善机构乐施会(Oxfam)请她担任旗下的“大使”；连锁超市森宝利(Sainsbury’s)选她做电视广告。
Others, on the right, dismiss her as “The Guardian’s favorite poor person.” In a scathing piece last November, Richard Littlejohn at the pro-Conservative Party Daily Mail called her the poster girl of “Welfare Britain,” mocking her kale pesto pasta recipe for 48 pence a head, or less than 80 cents.
右翼的人，则将她贬为“《卫报》最喜爱的穷人”。去年11月，亲保守党的《每日邮报》(Daily Mail)刊登了理查德·利特尔约翰(Richard Littlejohn)撰写的一篇苛责文章，把她称为“福利英国”的海报女郎，嘲讽她写的人均花销48便士的罗勒酱甘蓝意面菜谱。
Ms. Monroe insists she is “nobody’s paid face.” She turned down an offer from Tesco. Sainsbury’s is where she has always shopped and priced her recipes. She is giving most of her fee to charity, keeping only £1,600. Sometimes she tires of having to justify herself: “It’s almost like people want to see me hungry again.”
门罗坚称，自己不是“任何人收买的代言人”。她拒绝了乐购(Tesco)的邀请。森宝利是她一直购物的地方，也一直是她的菜谱参考定价的来源。她把大部分收益捐给了慈善机构，自己只留了1600英镑。有时候，她会对自我辩护感到厌倦：“就好像大家希望看到我再饿肚子似的。”
Until November 2011, Ms. Monroe was working in the call center of a fire station, making £27,000 a year. But after returning from maternity leave, her request to be taken off the night shift, because as a single parent she had no child care at night, was denied. She had to quit.
2011年11月底前，门罗在消防队的呼叫中心工作，年薪2.7万英镑。然而，修完产假回来，她要求不上夜班，原因是身为单亲妈妈的她，找不到人晚上帮她照管小孩。不过，这一要求遭到了拒绝。于是她被迫辞职。
In the following months she got deeper into debt as benefit payments arrived late and utility payments bounced. She fell behind on rent, and the more than 300 job applications she filled out came to nothing.
接下来的几个月里，由于福利金姗姗来迟、水电费账单居高不下，她在债务里越陷越深。她交不上房租，发出的300多份工作申请也都石沉大海。
It was not until July 30, 2012, when she wrote “Hunger Hurts,” that Ms. Monroe publicly came out as poor.
直到2012年7月30日，门罗写下《饥饿之痛》的时候，才公开了自己是个穷人。
Poverty gave her a voice, she says today. As for the many other families struggling to put food on the table, she hopes her experience will help politicians understand that more than perhaps ever in the history of the modern welfare state, “poverty can happen to anyone.”
如今她说，贫穷赋予了她声音。至于为了糊口而苦苦挣扎的许多家庭，她希望自己的经历可以帮助政坛人士意识到，或许今天这个时刻，贫困比在现代福利社会历史上的任何时候“都更容易落到任何人头上”。