PANGKALAN BUN, Indonesia — Divers and an unmanned underwater vehicle spotted the tail of the missing AirAsia plane in the Java Sea on Wednesday, the first confirmed sighting of any major wreckage 11 days after Flight 8501 disappeared with 162 people on board, an official said.
印度尼西亚庞卡兰邦——周三，一名官员称，潜水员和一架无人潜航器在爪哇海发现了失联亚航航班的尾部残骸，这是在这架载有162人的飞机消失11天后，首次证实发现了该飞机的主要部分残骸。
Following days of strong currents and murky water that hindered the operation, searchers managed to get a photograph of the debris, National Search and Rescue chief Henry Bambang Soelistyo told reporters.
印尼国家搜救队主管(National Search and Rescue chief)亨利·班邦·苏里斯蒂约(Henry Bambang Soelistyo)告诉记者，接连数天的大浪和浑浊的水域阻碍了搜索行动，但搜救人员仍设法拍摄了残骸照片。
The find is particularly important because the all-important cockpit voice and flight data recorders, or black boxes, are located in the aircraft's tail. Small pieces of the plane, such as seats, have previously been spotted.
此次寻获至关重要，因为关键的驾驶舱话音记录仪和飞行数据记录仪——或者叫黑匣子——都位于飞机尾部。此前已被发现了类似座椅这样的小件飞机残骸。
Soelistyo said the top priority remains recovering more bodies along with the black boxes. So far, 40 corpses have been found, including an additional one announced Wednesday, but time is running out.
苏里斯蒂约说目前的重中之重仍是打捞出更多遗体以及黑匣子。目前已经发现40具遗体，其中一具是周三发现的，但时间已经十分紧迫了。
At two weeks, most corpses will sink, said Anton Castilani, head of the country's disaster identification victim unit, and there are already signs of serious decomposition.
印尼灾难遇难者识别小组主管(disaster identification victim unit)安顿·卡斯提拉尼(Anton Castilani)称，两周内大多数尸体都会下沉，目前尸体已经出现严重腐烂的迹象。
The Airbus A320 went down Dec. 28, halfway through a two-hour flight between Indonesia's second-largest city of Indonesia and Singapore, killing everyone on board. It is not clear what caused the crash, but bad weather is believed to be a contributing factor.
这架空客A320客机在12月28日坠毁，机上无人生还。当时飞机正在从印尼第二大城市飞往新加坡的途中，全程预计两个小时。目前仍不清楚是什么导致了坠机，但普遍相信天气恶劣是影响因素之一。
Just before losing contact, the pilot told air traffic control he was approaching threatening clouds, but was denied permission to climb to a higher altitude because of heavy air traffic. No distress signal was issued.
在失去联系之前，飞行员曾告诉空管他正在迫近一些危险云团，但由于空域繁忙，飞机爬升到更高高度的请求被拒绝了。飞机没有发出求救信号。
Ships equipped with sonar devices have also identified what they believe to be the fuselage of the plane. Several other big chunks have been found, the largest measuring 14 meters by 4 meters, though they have not yet received visual confirmation.
装备了声纳装置的船只还探测到了据信为飞机机身的物件。几块其他大块残骸也已经被发现，最大的一块长14米，宽4米，但他们仍未获得影像确认。