HONG KONG — After Kim Jong-un’s half brother, Kim Jong-nam, was killed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, South Korean officials were quick to blame the North Korean leader. It would not be the first time that someone who has fallen out of favor with Kim Jong-un has been targeted in either a purge or an outright execution. A South Korean think tank, the Institute for National Security Strategy, released a report recently saying that Mr. Kim had ordered the execution of 340 people since coming to power in 2011. Some who fall out of favor are not killed but are abruptly stripped of power.
香港——金正恩(Kim Jong-un)同父异母的哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)在马来西亚吉隆坡被杀之后，韩国官员很快将其归罪于这位朝鲜领导人。这并非失势于金正恩的人第一次成为一场清洗行动或当场处决的目标。韩国智囊机构国家安全战略研究所(Institute for National Security Strategy)最近发布了一份报告称，自金正恩2011年上台以来，他已下令处决了340人。有些失势的人没有被杀，而是被突然剥夺了权力。
Ri Yong-ho, purged in 2012
李英浩(Ri Yong-ho)，2012年遭清洗
As Mr. Kim consolidated his rule, he signaled that none of his top officials were safe by purging Mr. Ri, his army chief and trusted mentor, with the state news media saying Mr. Ri had left his posts because of “illness.”
通过清除自己的军队总参谋长和信任的导师李英浩，金正恩在巩固自身统治的同时也释放出这样的信号，即没有哪个高层官员是安全的。官方媒体称李英浩因“病”去职。
Jang Song-thaek, executed in 2013
张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)，2013年遭处决
In late 2013, Mr. Jang, who was Mr. Kim’s uncle and the country’s second-most powerful official, was taken to witness the execution of his deputies, who were torn apart by antiaircraft machine guns before their bodies were incinerated with flamethrowers. He was said to have fainted during the ordeal. After he was convicted of treason, he was executed at the same place and in the same way as his deputies, South Korea’s intelligence agency said.
2013年底，金正恩的姑父、朝鲜二号人物张成泽被带去观看自己的副手被处决的过程，后者被高射机枪击烂，之后尸体又被火焰喷射器烧成灰烬。据说他在这场严酷考验中晕了过去。韩国情报机构称，在被判决犯有叛国罪之后，张成泽在同一个地点以同样的方式被处决。
The cruelties inside the police state, often reported by defectors, led to news reports speculating that the North Korean leader may have had his uncle torn apart by ravenous dogs.
叛逃者往往会讲述这个警察国家内部的残酷，这导致媒体报道猜测这位朝鲜领导人可能是放出饿狗，将自己的叔叔撕成了碎片。 
Hyon Yong-chol, executed in 2015
玄永哲(Hyon Yong-chol)，2015年遭处决
General Hyon, who as minister of the armed forces was the second-highest officer in North Korea’s military, had apparently shown disrespect to Mr. Kim by dozing off during military events and second-guessing his orders. He is believed to have been executed with an antiaircraft gun.
作为人民武装力量部部长，玄永哲当时是朝鲜军方第二号人物。他曾在军事活动中打瞌睡，还妄议金正恩下达的命令，对他表现出明显的不尊重。据信玄永哲是被用高射炮处决。
Choe Yong-gon, executed in 2015
崔庸健(Choe Yong-gon)，2015年遭处决
Mr. Choe, a vice premier who ran the construction and building materials industries, was executed after he “expressed discomfort against the young leader’s forestation policy,” according to Yonhap, a South Korean news agency.
据韩国通讯社韩联社(Yonhap)报道，主管建筑和建材行业的副总理崔庸健是在“对这位年轻领导人的造林政策表示不满”之后遭处决的。
Kim Yong-jin, executed in 2016
金勇进(Kim Yong-jin)，2016年遭处决
Mr. Kim, the deputy premier for education, had apparently annoyed Kim Jong-un for showing “disrespectful posture” during a meeting with the North Korean leader. An investigation later found that the 63-year-old deputy premier was an “anti-party reactionary” guilty of “modern-day factionalism.” He was executed by firing squad.
因为在与这位朝鲜领导人会面期间摆出“不敬的姿势”，主管教育的副总理金勇进显然惹恼了金正恩。一项调查后来发现，这位63岁的副总理是一名“反党的反动分子”，犯有“现代宗派主义”罪。他是被行刑队处决的。
Kim Won-hong, purged in 2017
金元弘(Kim Won-hong)，2017年遭清洗
General Kim, the head of North Korea’s secret police, was considered Kim Jong-un’s right hand man, but he was dismissed on charges of corruption and abuse of power. The general had been Mr. Kim’s chief henchman in purging potential enemies.
朝鲜秘密警察主管金元弘被认为是金正恩的左右手，但他被指控腐败和滥用权力，由此解除职位。在清除潜在反对者方面，金元弘一直是金正恩最重要的亲信。