WASHINGTON — For more than six years, the short walk from the Oval Office downstairs to the Situation Room has all too often meant bad news or grim choices. Whether it was war in the Middle East, Russian aggression in Ukraine or the hunt for terrorists around the globe, President Obama’s foreign policy has felt consumed by guns and drones.
华盛顿——六年多来，从椭圆形办公室下楼走到局势研究室的这一小段路，时常意味着坏消息或残酷的选择。不管是中东的战争、俄罗斯入侵乌克兰还是在全球追捕恐怖分子，奥巴马总统的外交政策仿佛总是关于枪炮和无人机。
So the 12-nation trade deal Mr. Obama has been negotiating in Asia took on special meaning for a president eager to change the world. It was a way to leave behind a positive legacy abroad, one that could be measured, he hoped, by the number of lives improved rather than by the number of bodies left behind. And if the Pacific really is the future, Mr. Obama wanted to position the United States to lead the way.
因此，对迫切地想要改变世界的奥巴马来说，他正在亚洲谈判的12国贸易协定，具有特殊的意义。这是一个在海外留下积极政绩的途径，他希望可以通过生活得到改善的人数，而非遇难者人数来衡量这项政绩。并且如果太平洋真的是美国的未来，奥巴马想让美国处在领导地位。
As it turned out, the biggest challenge to securing that legacy has been at home, and not overseas, as Mr. Obama’s fellow Democrats last week shot down legislation crucial to finalizing the trade agreement on the grounds that it would hurt rather than help America. Unless he can convince scores of Democrats to change their votes in the coming days, the centerpiece of his much-touted re-engagement with Asia will slip away along with one of the last chances he has to leave his imprint on the world before leaving office.
结果证明，取得这一政绩的最大挑战在美国国内，而非国外，因为上周，与奥巴马同属一个政党的民主党人，以会给美国带来损失而非帮助为由，驳回了一项对于敲定该贸易协议至关重要的立法。除非能在未来几天说服数十名民主党人改变意见，否则他广泛宣传的重新参与亚洲事务的方针，连同离任前在世界舞台上留下印记的一个最后机会，都将溜走。
“If the president cannot get” trade promotion authority “through Congress, it is a disaster for his Asia policy,” said Michael J. Green, a former Asia adviser to President George W. Bush and now at Georgetown University and the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The administration will be dismissed as lame duck at a time when China is flexing its muscles.”
“如果总统无法让”贸易促进权“在国会获得通过，对他的亚洲政策来说是一场灾难，”曾任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的亚洲事务顾问、现供职于乔治城大学(Georgetown University)和国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。“在中国施展自己的影响力时，美国政府会被认为是只跛脚鸭，进而遭到冷遇。”
Moreover, Mr. Green and other analysts said, a failure to follow through on the trade deal would lead to Japan, Vietnam and other putative partners reversing course on economic reforms or tariff concessions required to join the multilateral trade zone with the United States, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or T.P.P. And momentum may shift to economic institutions and agreements that do not include the United States, including the new Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank that China is creating over American resistance.
此外，格林及其他一些分析人士表示，如果无法落实贸易协定，日本、越南等计划加入协定的潜在伙伴国，可能会调整政策走向。要与美国共同建立这个多边贸易区，即跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP），需要做出经济改革和关税让步。并且风头可能会转向不包括美国的经济机构，如中国不顾美国抵制建立起来的亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank)。
“Domestically we tend to view trade through a political prism by way of winners and losers,” said Jon Huntsman, a Republican former governor of Utah who served as Mr. Obama’s ambassador to China before mounting a campaign to challenge his re-election in 2012. “In Asia, it’s seen as directly tied to our leadership and commitment to the region. A failed T.P.P. would create an influence vacuum that others, primarily China, would fill.”
“在国内，我们倾向于通过谁赢谁输的政治视角来看待贸易，”前犹他州州长、共和党人洪博培(Jon Huntsman)说。“而在亚洲，它被认为和我们的领导地位，以及对该地区的承诺直接相关。TPP半途而废将留下一个影响力真空，其他国家，主要是中国将填补这一真空。”洪博培曾任奥巴马政府的美国驻华大使，后来在2012年参加竞选，与谋求连任的奥巴马展开角逐。
The trade agreement, about a decade in the making, would stitch together the United States with 11 other nations along the Pacific Rim, including Canada, Mexico, Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia and Australia, creating a free-trade zone for about 40 percent of the world’s economy. It would lower tariffs, while setting rules for resolving trade disputes, setting patents and protecting intellectual property. China is not part of the group.
这项贸易协议的拟定过程持续了大概10年。它将使美国与加拿大、墨西哥、日本、越南、马来西亚和澳大利亚等11个环太平洋国家联系起来，形成一个涵盖全球经济总量40%左右的自由贸易区。它将降低关税，同时设定解决贸易争端的规则、设置专利及保护知识产权。中国并不是其中的成员。
Mr. Obama, congressional Republicans and business groups argue that it will unlock foreign markets to American goods and level the playing field by forcing Asian competitors to improve labor and environmental standards. But House Democrats, labor unions and environmental groups argue that it will benefit big corporations, further bleed American manufacturing jobs and fail to adequately enforce the workplace standards it promises.
奥巴马、国会两院的共和党人及商业团体认为，TPP将为美国商品开拓外国市场，并通过迫使亚洲的竞争者改善劳工待遇和提高环境标准来创造公平的竞争环境。众议院的民主党人、工会和环保组织则表示，它将使大企业获益，却让美国制造业的工作机会进一步流失，也无法有力地执行它所承诺的工作环境标准。
The administration tried making a foreign policy argument over the last few weeks, maintaining that if the United States does not seal the trade pact, it will be leaving the field to China, which has been exerting its clout in recent years, whether by investing in energy supplies in Africa and the Middle East or by asserting claims over disputed waters and islands.
过去几周，奥巴马政府试图从外交政策方面阐述自己的理由，坚持表示，如果美国不达成这个贸易协定，就会把机会留给中国。近年来，中国一直在发挥其影响力，无论是投资非洲和中东的能源供应，还是加强对争议水域和岛屿的领土主张。
But some on the left argue that the administration is using China to scare lawmakers and exaggerating the competition. “I just don’t buy this China boogeyman stuff,” said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “If anything, I see China as being more inward looking, devoting less resources to mercantile-type trade and more to internal investment, consumption and developing human capital.”
然而，有些左翼人士认为，奥巴马政府在利用中国恐吓国会，夸大了竞争。“我才不相信这套中国恶魔论，”预算与政策重点中心(Center for Budget and Policy Priorities)高级研究员、副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的前经济顾问杰瑞德·伯恩斯坦(Jared Bernstein)说。“我倒认为，中国开始把更多注意力放在国内，减少了在商贸方面投入的资源，增加了对内部投资、消费和开发人力资本的投入。
But there was little indication over the weekend that many minds had been changed on the political left. “We need to regroup and come up with a trade policy which demands that corporate America start investing in this country rather than in countries all over the world,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS.
不过，上周末期间没有多少迹象表明，左翼有什么人的立场发生了变化。民主党总统提名候选人、来自佛蒙特州的联邦参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在CBS的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)上表示，“我们需要重组，提出一项新的贸易政策，其中要求美国业界开始投资本国，而不是满世界地找其他国家进行投资。”
The Pacific trade pact was meant to be one of three major foreign policy achievements Mr. Obama wanted to secure before leaving office; all three are on the line this summer. He faces a June 30 deadline to seal an agreement with Iran to scale back its nuclear program and he hopes to follow through on his reconciliation with Cuba by formally restoring diplomatic relations.
奥巴马希望，能在卸任前在外交政策方面取得三项重大成就，而这项太平洋地区的贸易协定本应是其中之一。然而，今年夏天，这三件事均面临风险。6月30日是奥巴马与伊朗达成削弱后者核计划协议的最后期限。此外，他还希望，通过正式恢复外交关系，完成他与古巴的和解。
Those three initiatives take on even more significance for Mr. Obama as he confronts the reality that he is likely to turn over the White House to his successor without having defeated the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq or resolved the conflict with Russia over Ukraine. He still plans to leave office as the president who ended the American war in Afghanistan, but the security situation there remains fluid.
奥巴马面对的现实很可能是，把白宫交给继任者的时候，他既未打败叙利亚和伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，也没有解决在乌克兰问题上与俄罗斯产生的冲突。鉴于此，上述三项倡议对奥巴马而言更显重要。他仍然希望自己离任时的政绩包括终结了美国在阿富汗的战争，但那里的安全局势依旧充满变数。
Amid all those wartime issues, the Asia initiative was to be the long-term investment that would pay off years later. The White House has deployed more military forces to the region and made it a focus. But the trade pact was to be the most tangible element of the policy.
除了各种战争问题，关于亚洲的这项倡议将是多年后才能看到回报的长期投资。白宫在向该地区派驻更多兵力，并将之列为一个重点地区。不过，TPP将是这项政策中最有形的成果。
The trade talks have reached a decisive turning point. Negotiators have drafted the bulk of the agreement but other countries are holding back to see if Mr. Obama wins the authority he needs from Congress before completing the pact. With Asia on his mind, Mr. Obama plans to host Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Xi Jinping of China at the White House in coming weeks, meetings that will be colored by his failure to achieve his trade goal should he not turn House Democrats around.
关于贸易协定的谈判已经到了一个决定性的转折点。谈判人员起草了协议的大部分内容，但其他国家却持保留态度，想看看奥巴马能否在协定完成前从国会获得他需要的授权。由于在盘算亚洲问题，奥巴马打算，未来几周之内在白宫先后接待日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和中国国家主席习近平。倘若他无法使众议院的民主党人改变立场，相关会晤就会因为他未能达成自己的贸易目标而变得微妙起来。
“There is no Asia pivot without an economic component, and that component is tied up in T.P.P.,” said Walter Lohman, director of the Asian studies program at the Heritage Foundation. The challenge for Mr. Obama, he added, is that no matter how important the trade pact may be to his foreign policy, Congress will consider it through an economic lens. “Geopolitics gets it very few votes.”
“如果没有经济元素，‘转向亚洲’策略就不成立，而这个元素与TPP密不可分，”传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)的亚洲研究项目负责人主任沃尔特·洛曼(Walter Lohman)说。他还表示，奥巴马面临的挑战是，不论这项贸易协定对他的外交政策有多么重要，国会都将从经济角度来加以考虑。“地缘政治不能为它拉到几张票。”
Peter A. Petri, a professor of international finance at Brandeis University, said he just returned from a trip to Asia. “Many people there are dismayed by our political impasse,” he said. “They simply don’t understand or want an America that is defensive and distant.” He said that was actually true of China as well, despite the competitiveness between the two countries.
布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)国际金融学教授彼得·A·彼得里(Peter A. Petri)称自己刚刚去了一趟亚洲。“那里的许多人对我们的政治僵局感到不安，”他说。“他们完全不理解一个处于守势的冷漠的美国，也不想要一个这样的美国。”他表示，其实对于中国来说也是如此，尽管两国之间存在竞争。