SEPANG, Malaysia — International police authorities said on Tuesday that two Iranians known to have used stolen passports to board the Malaysia Airlines jet that disappeared on Saturday were unlikely to be linked to terrorist groups, echoing an assessment by the Malaysian police that one of them was a 19-year-old Iranian who wanted to migrate to Germany.
马来西亚雪邦——国际警察机构周二称，两名持被盗护照乘坐周六失踪的马来西亚航班的伊朗人，不大可能与恐怖组织有关，这与马来西亚警方的估计相应，马来西亚当局称该两人中的那位19岁的伊朗人想移民德国。
The 19-year-old Iranian, Pouria Nourmohammadi Mehrdad, was using a stolen Austrian passport to travel to Germany, where he was to meet his mother, said Khalid Abu Bakar, the inspector general of the Malaysian police.
马来西亚全国警察总长哈立德·阿布·巴卡尔(Khalid Abu Bakar)说，19岁的伊朗人普里奥·努尔姆哈马迪·迈赫达德(Pouria Nourmohammadi Mehrdad)想用偷来的奥地利护照飞往德国，与其母亲团聚。
“We are in contact with his mother,” Mr. Khalid said at a news conference.
哈立德在一次新闻发布会上说，“我们已经与他的母亲取得了联系。”
Interpol identified the second Iranian traveler as Delavar Seyed Mohammad Reza, 29, who used a stolen Italian passport, and released a photograph of the two men boarding Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 at the same time. Interpol also confirmed the identity of the other Iranian, Mr. Mehrdad, but gave his age as 18. The source of the discrepancy was unclear.
国际刑警组织(Interpol)确认了第二位伊朗旅行者的身份，他是29岁的德拉瓦尔·赛义德·穆罕默德·雷扎(Delavar Seyed Mohammad Reza)，他用的是偷来的意大利护照。该组织还发布了一张这两名男子一起登上马来西亚航空公司MH370班机的照片。国际刑警组织也确认了第一位伊朗乘客迈赫达德的身份，但给出他的年龄为18岁。这个年龄差异的原因尚不清楚。
Mr. Khalid said that the two men had arrived in Malaysia on the same day, Feb. 28.
哈立德说，这两人在2月28日那天一起进入马来西亚。
At the headquarters of Interpol in Lyon, France, Ronald K. Noble, the agency’s secretary general, said the evidence emerging about the two Iranians suggested that they were not likely to be linked to any terrorist groups.
国际刑警组织总干事理查德·K·诺布尔(Ronald K. Noble)在位于法国里昂的总部说，有关这两名伊朗人的证据表明，他们不太可能与任何恐怖组织有关联。
“The more information we get, the more we are inclined to conclude it is not a terrorist incident,” Mr. Noble said.
诺布尔说，“我们得到的信息越多，就越倾向于得出这不是一次恐怖袭击的结论。”
He added that the two men had traveled to Kuala Lumpur on Iranian passports before using the stolen Italian and Austrian passports to board the flight.
他还说，这两人抵达吉隆坡时使用的是伊朗护照，后来才用被盗的意大利和奥地利护照登上失事的航班。
Mr. Noble praised the Iranian authorities for their cooperation in confirming the identities of the two men. He said Tehran had also determined that neither of the men had a criminal record and that both had left Iran legally.
诺布尔对伊朗当局帮助核实这两人身份的合作表示赞赏。他说，德黑兰方面也已经确定，这两人均无犯罪记录，都是合法离开伊朗的。
The connection to Iran seemed to unsettle some authorities in Tehran, where a prominent lawmaker called the reports implicating two Iranians “psychological warfare.”
飞机失事与伊朗的联系似乎让德黑兰的某些官方人士感到不安，德黑兰的一位著名议员称有关这两位伊朗人的报道为“心理战”。
“Americans recruit some people for such kinds of operations so they can throw the blame on other countries, especially Muslim countries,” said Hossein Naghavi Hosseini, the spokesman for Parliament’s foreign policy committee.
“美国雇人来进行这种操作，这样他们就可以指责其他国家，尤其是穆斯林国家，”伊朗议会外交政策委员会发言人侯赛因·纳格哈维·侯赛尼(Hossein Naghavi Hosseini)这样说。
Thousands of Iranians seeking to leave their home country wait in Asian countries with friendly visa regulations to make the second part of their migration to the West and to Australia. Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia are popular jumping-off points for middle-class Iranians who arrive on tourist visas and are helped by local travel agents and by people-traffickers to travel to the West.
数千名试图离开自己国家的伊朗人，在亚洲的具有友好签证规定的国家等待机会，以完成他们移民行程的第二段：前往西方国家或澳大利亚。泰国、马来西亚和印度尼西亚是深受伊朗中产阶级喜爱的中转站，他们持旅游签证来到这些国家，在当地旅游社和偷渡团伙的帮助下，去往西方国家。
Despite the lawmaker’s accusations, the Iranian Foreign Ministry struck a more cooperative note.
尽管那位议员发出指责，但伊朗外交部采取了更为合作的态度。
“We have received information on the possible presence of two Iranians” aboard the plane and “we are pursuing the issue,” said Marzieh Afkham, the spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry. “We have informed our embassy in Malaysia that we are ready to receive further information about the issue from Malaysian officials. We have announced that we were ready for cooperation,” she said.
伊朗外交部发言人玛兹齐耶赫·阿夫哈姆(Marzieh Afkham)表示，“我们已经收到信息，得知可能有两名伊朗人”在飞机上，“我们正在关注事情的进展。我们已通知了驻马来西亚的伊朗大使馆，做好从马来西亚官方得到有关此事的进一步信息的准备。我们已经表示准备合作。”
In the first detailed comments by the police here since Flight MH370 disappeared Saturday en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Khalid, the inspector general of the Malaysian police, said that officers were still investigating the possibilities of hijacking, sabotage and also psychological or personal problems among the crew and passengers. Other agencies in Malaysia continue to investigate noncriminal explanations for the aircraft’s disappearance.
在自吉隆坡飞往北京的MH370航班周六失踪以来马来西亚警方首次发布的详细信息中，马来西亚警察总长哈立德说，警方仍在针对各种可能性展开调查，包括劫机、破坏以及机组成员或乘客中的心理或个人问题等。马来西亚的其他机构则继续对飞机失踪的非犯罪性原因展开调查。
Mr. Khalid said that previous reports by Malaysian officials that five passengers had failed to board the flight were false. “Everybody that booked the flight boarded the plane,” he said.
哈立德说，此前有关马来西亚官员称有5名乘客未登机的报道是假的。他说，“所有订了这个航班机票的人都登了机。”
The police in the Thai resort town of Pattaya said that they had questioned an Iranian man who paid cash for the tickets of the two passengers who traveled on stolen passports.
泰国度假胜地芭堤雅的警方称，他们已经问讯了一位伊朗人，该人用现金为持被盗护照登机的两名乘客购买了机票。
The man they questioned, Hashem Saheb Gharani Golestani, 51, runs a frame shop in Pattaya and was a friend of another Iranian, a frequent customer of a local travel agency, who booked the tickets from abroad, the police said. Mr. Hashem was released after questioning, the police said.
警方称，这名被问讯的伊朗人是51岁的哈希姆·萨希卜·加拉尼·高勒斯坦尼(Hashem Saheb Gharani Golestani)，他在芭堤雅经营一家相框商店，他的一个伊朗朋友是当地一家旅行社的常客，该人从国外预订了那两张机票。警方称，哈希姆在问讯后被释放。
The stolen passports used to board Flight MH370 had been taken during the past two years in Phuket, another Thai beach resort. Both destinations attract budget tourists from Russia, China, Europe and the Middle East and have become centers of crime, particularly human trafficking and the counterfeiting of travel documents.
MH370的那两名乘客登机时持的偷来的护照，是过去两年中在另一个泰国海边度假地普吉失盗的。泰国的这两个地方都吸引着来自俄罗斯、中国、欧洲和中东地区的喜欢节省的游客，两地也已成为犯罪窝点，尤其是偷渡和伪造旅行证件的犯罪。
The fact that two passengers on Flight MH370 carried the passports of an Italian and an Austrian that had been stolen in Thailand, and traveled on tickets bought in Thailand by an Iranian who does not live there, has raised the possibility that the passengers were part of a people-trafficking scheme.
MH370航班上有两名乘客持在泰国被盗的意大利护照和奥地利护照登机，这两人的机票是一个伊朗人在泰国购买，而且购票的伊朗人又非当地居民，这些事实指向一种可能性：那两名乘客也许是一个偷渡计划的一部分。