KIEV, Ukraine — Volodymyr Danyluk was a Soviet Army veteran who joined demonstrations against Ukraine’s government last year. He was 55 years old, separated from his wife and mostly out of contact with his family, who saw him on live television during a winter of protests.
乌克兰基辅——弗拉基米尔·达尼卢克(Volodymyr Danyluk)是前苏联军队的一名老兵，去年加入了反乌克兰政府示威活动的队伍。他当时55岁，已与妻子分居，基本上和家人失去了联系。在这个抗议活动持续不断的冬天，他的家人在电视直播中看到了他。
Then came the authorities’ crackdown last month in Kiev, the capital. The riot police and demonstrators clashed, scores of people were killed and the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovych fell. Mr. Danyluk disappeared from sight.
随后，上个月，在首都基辅，当局对抗议者实施了镇压。防暴警察和示威者发生冲突，数十人死亡，总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)政府倒台。达尼卢克也从家人的视线中消失了。
In the weeks since, Ukraine’s interim authorities have allowed opposition members to search prisons, morgues and hospitals for their missing. There has been no sign of Mr. Danyluk — or of more than 250 other missing Ukrainians.
此后的几周里，乌克兰临时政府曾允许反对派成员在监狱、停尸房和医院里寻找失踪人员。还没有发现达尼卢克的踪影——同样下落不明的还有另外250多名乌克兰人。
After a season of political upheaval here, a gnawing worry persists: What happened to Ukrainians who seemingly vanished in their revolution’s fast-moving tides? Were Mr. Danyluk and the others victims of state repression and criminal activity by the police, or had some of them just drifted back to quiet lives?
在这里长达一个季度的政治动荡之后，一种持续的担忧仍然挥之不去：一些乌克兰人仿佛在革命的汹涌大潮中就消失了，他们究竟出了什么事？达尼卢克以及其他人是否已经成了政府镇压和警方非法活动的受害者？还是他们中的一些人只是回到了原先平静的生活？
“Our mom is worried and calling me all the time,” said Mr. Danyluk’s sister, Galyna Onyshchuk, crying.
达尼卢克的妹妹加雷娜·奥尼什丘克(Galyna Onyshchuk)哭着说，“母亲很担心，一直在给我打电话。”
In all, 661 people have been reported missing since protests began last December, according to Euromaidan S O S, a volunteer group leading efforts to find the disappeared. The fates of 272 of them remained unknown late last week.
乌克兰亲欧广场运动SOS(Euromaidan SOS)是一家主导寻找失踪人员行动的志愿者组织。根据该组织的数据，自从去年12月爆发抗议活动以来，共有661人被报失踪。直到上周末，其中272人仍然生死未卜。
Many people were found in prison cells or hospitals, or resurfaced on their own, said Vitaliy Selyk, a Euromaidan S O S coordinator. Some cases were caused by breakdowns in communications, including people who lost cellphones or ran out of credit on SIM cards, he said.
乌克兰亲欧广场运动SOS的协调员维塔利·谢伊科(Vitaliy Selyk)说，许多人在监狱牢房或是医院里被找到，还有一些失踪人员自己重新露面。他说，一些人的失踪是通讯中断导致的，比如丢失了手机，或者手机余额不足。
A few of the missing were people estranged from families and whose recent silence was by choice. Mr. Selyk said he expected that most of the remaining cases would be solved and that the missing would turn up.
少数失踪人员是因为和家人关系不和，最近故意不与外界联系。谢伊科说，他预计，剩下的案子大部分会解决，这些失踪的人也会出现。
But beneath that hope lies the grim concern that many Ukrainians may have disappeared after being seized by the Berkut riot police unit, by pro-Russian provocateurs or by unofficial forces that worked to keep Mr. Yanukovych in power.
然而，在希望之下则潜藏着一种深深的担忧，许多乌克兰人可能被别尔库特(Berkut)防暴警察部队、亲俄罗斯的煽动者或一些试图让亚努科维奇继续掌权的非官方势力所抓捕而失踪的。
Abuses by the ministry’s riot police have been well established, including the taunting humiliation of Mihailo Gavryluk, a farmer from western Ukraine who, upon being arrested last month, was forced to stand outside naked in the wintry cold while masked and hooded police officers posed for photographs with him.
别尔库特防暴警察滥用职权早已是不争的事实，包括他们对米哈伊洛·加夫留卢克(Mihailo Gavryluk)令人发指的羞辱。加夫留卢克是乌克兰西部的农民，上个月被逮捕之后，他被要求赤身裸体地站在户外冬日的严寒中，与此同时，带着口罩和帽子的警察摆出各种姿势与他合影。
Part of this episode was posted in a video on YouTube. In it, one officer slaps him and gives him a stern kick.
其中部分视频上传到了YouTube上。在视频中，一名军官打他耳光，还狠狠地踢了他一脚。
Mr. Gavryluk said the Berkut officers who arrested him tore off his clothes. “They had fun,” he said, darkly.
加夫留卢克说，逮捕他的别尔库特部队军官扯掉了他的衣服。他愤怒地说，“他们是为了找乐子。”
But he noted that his luck soon turned better. The Berkut police were busy, and often left detainees at police stations or hospitals scattered around the city. Mr. Gavryluk said he was taken to a hospital where veterans who fought in the Soviet war in Afghanistan and were loyal to the opposition were active.
但他说，自己很快摆脱了厄运。别尔库特的警察很忙，常常把被关押者扔在城市各处的警察局或医院里。加夫留卢克说，他被带到了一家医院，那里有很多在阿富汗参加过苏联战争、支持反对派的老兵，他们十分活跃。
The veterans quickly spirited him back to the square, he said. When the police returned to pick him up for prosecution, he was gone.
老兵们很快偷偷地把他带回了广场，他说。当警方回来带走他接受起诉时，他已经不见了。
Another former detainee, Andriy Babyn, described a law enforcement system overwhelmed by the large number of people arrested as Ukrainians turned out to fight. “There was practically a war going on,” he said.
另一名曾被关押的安德里·巴贝恩(Andriy Babyn)说，随着乌克兰人纷纷出来抗争，执法系统已经因为逮捕了太多人而招架不住。他说，“这里实际上正进行着一场战争。”
One result, Mr. Babyn said, was that some detainees ended up at police stations or jails where officers were either neutral or sympathetic to the opposition.
巴贝恩说，一个结果是，一些被关押者最后被送进了警察局或是监狱，那里的警察要么是中立的，要么同情反对派。
But the same characteristics of an overburdened prisoner-intake system meant that detainees were scattered across the region, opening the possibility for police abuse. That has also made a full accounting of the detainees difficult.
但是一个不堪重负的囚犯接收系统具有同样的特点，这也就意味着，被捕者会分散在整个地区，这就为警方滥用权力带来了可能。并且难以对被关押者的数量进行完全的统计。
One macabre story, common in Independence Square, is that 50 opposition members being treated in a hastily organized medical aid station in the Trade Union building were killed and burned beyond recognition by the fire that gutted the building.
在独立广场流传的一个可怕的说法是，在一场吞噬了工会大楼的火灾中，在楼内匆忙搭就的医疗救助站接受治疗的50名反对派成员丧生，被烧得面目全非。
This tale is largely false, people involved in the searches said. A few people did die in the blaze, they said, but the number of victims was six or fewer.
参与搜救的人说，这个说法基本上是虚构的。他们说，确实有几个人死于这场大火，但遇难者人数不超过六人。
Among those lost in the fire was Volodymyr Topij, 59, from Vyshnya, for whom at least one missing-person circular was still posted in the opposition encampment. Mr. Topij’s remains were identified last week. His body was escorted home for burial.
在大火中失踪的包括来自维什尼亚59岁的弗拉基米尔·托皮(Volodymyr Topij)。至少还有一张寻找他的启事仍然贴在反对派的营地中。托皮的遗体上周被辨认出来，已经被送回家下葬。
A more sinister whisper on the street is that the authorities, to mask widespread police crimes, arranged for the cremation of more than 100 bodies of those they killed.
街上流传的一个更恐怖的传闻是，为了掩盖警方广泛存在的罪行，当局火化了警方杀害的超过100人的尸体。
Euromaidan S O S has investigated these claims, and Mr. Selyk said they also appear false. “We know people who work in the crematorium,” he said, “and they say it is not true.”
乌克兰亲欧广场运动SOS就这些说法进行了调查。谢伊科说，这些似乎也是假的。他说，“我们认识在火葬场工作的人，他们说没这回事。”