When Yuan Xinqiang’s last negotiations for marriage with a Chinese woman fell through over monetary matters, he, like many other men in China, asked a matchmaker to help him find a Vietnamese fiancée. But his happiness, he told The Beijing News, was short-lived: His bride-to-be vanished just two months after they were introduced, along with dozens of other Vietnamese women in the area.
袁新强上一次与一名中国女子的婚事因为钱的问题而告吹之后，就像中国的许多其他男性一样，他请媒人为自己找了一位越南未婚妻。但他告诉《新京报》，自己的幸福只是昙花一现：这名准新娘在和他认识两个月之后就失踪了，一同不见的还有该地区其他数十名越南女性。
In that cluster of villages in the Hebei Province city of Handan, about 300 miles southwest of Beijing, the police have set up a task force to investigate reports of marriage fraud, the official English-language newspaper China Daily reported.
根据官方英文报纸《中国日报》的报道，在位于北京西南300英里（约合500公里）的河北邯郸的这片村落，警方成立了工作组来调查婚姻欺诈举报。
Since January, a Vietnamese woman who had lived in the area for more than 20 years had helped introduce other Vietnamese women to local men, collecting thousands of dollars in matchmaking fees. By late November, however, more than 100 of the women had vanished, China Daily reported. Several had lived in China for only a few months.
文中称，自今年1月以来，一名在该地区生活了20多年的越南妇女开始把其他越南女性介绍给当地男子，并收取了价值数千美元的介绍费。然而在11月底，100多名越南新娘失踪，其中有几人在中国只生活了几个月。
Several calls to the Quzhou Public Security Bureau, which is reportedly leading the investigation, went unanswered.
记者多次致电据称负责相关调查的曲周县公安局，但电话无人接听。
Like many other young men from the region, Mr. Yuan, 22, had struggled to find a wife, The Beijing News reported on Monday. A local official told the newspaper that there was a surfeit of men in the area because of China’s one-child policy, which was initiated in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and because of gender-selective abortions.
《新京报》周一报道，就像该地区的其他许多年轻男子一样，22岁的袁新强面临着娶妻难的问题。一名当地官员告诉这家报纸，由于中国70年代末和80年代实行的计划生育政策，以及重男轻女导致的堕胎，这个地区男多女少。
There are 118 men in China today for every 100 women.
目前，中国的男女比例是118比100。
Mr. Yuan’s parents are in poor health, and his father said this was the main reason his son’s efforts to find a Chinese wife had failed, the paper reported. Another obstacle was a lack of funds. “You spend 200,000 on just betrothal gifts, and besides that, the woman also demands that you have a car and a new house,” the article quoted Mr. Yuan as saying. An expenditure of 200,000 renminbi is equivalent to more than $32,600.
《新京报》称，袁新强的父母身体不好，因而他的父亲说，这是儿子找不到中国媳妇的主要原因。另外的一个原因是缺钱。“光彩礼就20万，女方还要求有汽车，有新房，”文章援引袁新强的话报道。20万人民币相当于逾3.26万美元。
Instead, for gifts worth 100,000 renminbi  — some of which Mr. Yuan borrowed from relatives — he brought home a Vietnamese woman who went by the Chinese name Lan Lan. He intended to apply for a marriage certificate at the end of the year and to hold a celebratory banquet. But the Vietnamese matchmaker, Wu Meiyu, had kept Lan Lan’s Vietnamese identity papers, along with those of many other Vietnamese women, on the pretext that she would soon return to Vietnam to process their visas.
于是，凭借价值10万元人民币的彩礼——其中一部分是袁新强从亲戚那里借来的——他把一名越南女子带回了家。她的中文名叫蓝蓝。他打算在年底领结婚证，然后摆酒席庆祝一下。不过，越南媒人吴美玉扣下了蓝蓝以及许多其他越南妇女的身份证件，理由是她不久后要回越南办理她们的签证。
On the morning of Nov. 21, Lan Lan told her prospective in-laws that she was going to visit a friend. She never returned, nor did several other Vietnamese women in the surrounding area, villagers told The Beijing News.
11月21日早上，蓝蓝告诉她未来的婆家，她打算到一个朋友家串门。村民们告诉《新京报》，她再也没有回来，周边地区的其他几名越南女子也没了踪影。
The only woman who returned, Wu Xiaohong (no relation to Wu Meiyu), said that she had been drugged at a banquet on Nov. 21 and that she had woken up in Handan city. She told the Chinese news media that her captors wanted to find her a new husband, but that she had refused and called her husband, who came to pick her up. Her version of events could not be verified.
唯一回来的女子是吴小红（与吴美玉没有亲属关系）。她说，自己11月21日在饭店被人迷晕，醒来后发现到了邯郸市。她告诉中国媒体，绑架她的人想要给她找一个新丈夫，但是她拒绝了，并给丈夫打了电话，后来被他接回了家。不过，她对事件的描述无法被证实。
The villagers also told The Beijing News that Ms. Wu, the matchmaker, had been brought to the village as a bride more than two decades ago but that she had managed to communicate that fact only after she learned Mandarin. After an early escape attempt, she had returned to the village, they said.
村民们还告诉《新京报》，媒人吴美玉20多年前作为越南新娘被卖到这个村子，但在学会汉语之后才说出了这个事实。他们说，她早先曾试图回家，后来又回到了村里。
The police in Quzhou County have reportedly detained three people in connection with the investigation and are searching for Ms. Wu and another suspect, who has the surname Li. Although news reports have put the number of missing women at more than 100, the police said that only 28 villagers had reported such fraud, China Daily reported last week.
曲周县警方据称已经逮捕了三名涉案人员，目前正在搜寻吴美玉和另一名嫌疑人李某。尽管媒体的报道称失踪越南新娘的人数在100人以上，但据《中国日报》上周刊登的文章，警方称，只有28名村民报案。
Those who filed police reports were all from villages under the jurisdiction of Handan, which is best known as the birthplace of China’s first emperor, Qin Shi Huang.
报案的人均来自邯郸下辖的农村地区。邯郸因是中国第一位皇帝秦始皇的出生地而闻名。
Stories of Vietnamese brides have become common in rural China, where many bachelors say they are squeezed out of the marriage market because they lack the funds to satisfy the demands of Chinese families. Unfortunately for these men, runaway foreign brides are also common — though 100 in one area is a larger number than usual.
越南新娘的故事已在中国乡村地区变得十分普遍。中国农村的许多单身汉表示，由于没钱来满足女方家庭的要求，他们被挤出了婚姻市场。不幸的是，对于这些男子来说，外国新娘出逃的情况同样普遍——虽说一个地方就有100名新娘逃跑有些不同寻常。
Although the police suspect that the Hebei case involves marriage fraud, Chinese government officials and international rights organizations have expressed concern that some international marriages involve human trafficking.
尽管警方怀疑河北的案子涉嫌婚姻欺诈，但一些中国政府官员和国际维权机构表达了对部分跨国婚姻涉嫌贩卖人口的担忧。
From 2009 to 2012, the Chinese police returned to Vietnam more than 1,800 women who had been brought to China illegally, Chen Shiqu, the head of the Chinese Ministry of Public Security’s anti-trafficking office, told the official news agency Xinhua last year.
中国公安部打拐办主任陈士渠去年告诉新华社，2009年到2012年，中国警方送返了1800余名被拐卖的越南妇女。
It is difficult to estimate how many trafficked Vietnamese women are in China, said Annette Lyth, the regional project manager for the United Nations Action for Cooperation Against Trafficking in Persons.
联合国反对拐卖人口合作行动计划(United Nations Action for Cooperation Against Trafficking in Persons)的地区项目主管安妮特·莱思(Annette Lyth)说，很难估计中国究竟有多少被拐的越南妇女。
A British government report found in 2011 that 60 percent of women who had been brought to China by traffickers from 2005 to 2009 had escaped. The Chinese police rescued 25 percent of those women, the study said, and the rest were released after their families paid money to the traffickers.
英国政府2011年发布的一份报告给出的数据是，2005年到2009年间人贩子拐卖到中国的女性中，60%逃走了。研究称，中国警方解救了25%，其他的在他们的家人付钱给人贩子之后被释放。
In October, a Chinese court sentenced five people to prison terms ranging from six to 12 years for trafficking Vietnamese with the intent of arranging their marriage.
今年10月，中国一家法院判处五人6至12年的有期徒刑，罪名是以买卖婚姻为目的拐卖越南妇女。
In an interview with China Daily, Wang Ying, an anti-trafficking official at the Ministry of Public Security, said that many Chinese websites and agencies that introduce Chinese men to foreign brides were involved in trafficking.
在接受《中国日报》采访时，公安部打拐官员王莹表示，许多为中国男子介绍外国新娘的婚恋网站和婚介机构涉嫌拐骗。
In many ways, fighting such trafficking is difficult. The border between China and Vietnam stretches about 750 miles. Thousands of day laborers and traders cross it every day, either through one of the official crossing points or by way of dozens of semilegal and unofficial forested pathways.
在许多方面，打击此类拐卖活动颇具难度。中越边界线绵延1200公里，每天有成千上万名短工和商人穿越边境。他们的途径既包括官方的过境通道，也包括几十条半合法的非官方林间小路。