WASHINGTON — The best information about Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is probably in the hands of American officials sent to assist in the investigation. But they will say nothing.
华盛顿——关于马来西亚航空370航班的最有用信息很可能掌握在前去协助调查的美国人手里。但他们什么都不会说。
In an odd twist, some of the world’s foremost experts on crash investigations, radar and the inner workings of the Boeing 777 are in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital — but technically only to assist the Malaysian government, and they are being scrupulously low-key. If a similar event happened in the United States, they would be gathering information from different parties and knitting it together into a progress report. But in the Malaysian case, at least so far, the Americans do not appear to have played any such role, and information is dribbling out, sometimes in contradictory fashion, from the government, the airline and the military.
奇怪的是，世界上关于空难调查、雷达以及波音(Boeing)777飞机内部构造的顶尖专家目前都在马来西亚首都吉隆坡——然而，严格地说，他们只是来协助马来政府，行动也十分低调。如果美国发生了类似的事情，他们肯定会从各个方面搜集信息，并把这些信息综合成一份进度报告。但在马来西亚的这次事件中，至少是就目前而言，美国人还没有发挥这样的作用。马来政府、航空公司和军方正在零零星星地发布信息，信息有时还相互矛盾。
By international agreement, the country in charge of investigating a plane crash or other such event is the one where it occurred. If a plane comes down in international waters, jurisdiction goes to the country whose carrier was involved. In this mystery, the presumption is that the problem is Malaysia’s. But whoever is officially responsible, there is a guiding American principle.
按照国际协议，负责调查空难及类似事件的国家应该是事情发生的国家。如果飞机坠落在国际水域，司法管辖权就归于相关航空公司所属的国家。就这起神秘事件而言，人们认定这是马来西亚的问题。但是，不论正式的负责人是谁，都无法忽视美国的指导原则。
“We try very hard not to make it look like we are running the investigation, even if we more or less are,” said Bernard Loeb, a former head of aviation safety at the National Transportation Safety Board, which leads the American delegation of experts at any crash involving an American airline or an airplane built in the United States. When crashes occur here, foreign aircraft or engine manufacturers like Airbus or Rolls-Royce get the same “observer” status and often contribute technical expertise.
“我们尽力不让人们觉得是我们在负责调查，虽然从某种程度上说，确实是我们在负责，”美国国家交通安全委员会（National Transportation Safety Board，简称NTSB）航空安全的前负责人伯纳德·勒布(Bernard Loeb)说。该委员会负责带领美国专家代表团，前去处理任何与美国航空公司或美国制造的飞机相关的空难。美国发生空难时，空客(Airbus)或罗尔斯·罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)等外国飞机或引擎制造商也会获得同样的“观察员”待遇，往往还会提供技术支持。
In practice, although it varies by country, the inquiry is often an American show.
从实践上看，虽然各国规定不同，但调查的主力通常都是美国人。
“Most of the local guys are pretty darned good,” said Thomas Haueter, another former chief of air safety. “The problem they have is, they don’t do it a lot. We do this a lot.”
“大多数当地工作人员都非常棒，”也曾担任航空安全高管的托马斯·霍伊特(Thomas Haueter)说。“他们的问题是，他们并不经常干这种活。我们却干过很多。”
Mr. Haueter said that depending on the circumstances of the crash, the United States would show up with investigators from the safety board, the Federal Aviation Administration, Boeing and General Electric. Sometimes, he said, there is “this huge army of Americans showing up,” and when they meet with local aviation safety authorities, “there’s only two of them.”
霍伊特说，根据空难的具体情况，美国会把交通安全委员会、联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）、波音公司和通用电气(General Electric)的调查人员派往事发地区。他说，有些时候，“会出现像这样的美国调查人员大军”，而当他们与当地航空安全负责人见面时，“对方只有两个人”。
“We’re aware of that,” he said. “We always have to tone it down.”
“我们知道这一点，”他说。“我们总是得淡化这种事情。”
The main goal for American investigators is to determine whether there is a flaw in the hardware, maintenance practices or operations of an American-built jetliner that could cause another one to crash. But they often confront conflicting agendas. If the crash involved a government-owned airline or government-provided air traffic services, or if there was possible misconduct by a pilot from the host country, some parties may try to shift blame. (The same thing happens in the United States among airlines, plane manufacturers and even the F.A.A., but the safety board is known for being independent, dispassionate and merciless in seeking to determine causes.)
美国调查人员的主要目标是确定美国制客机的硬件、保养程序及运作是否存在瑕疵，这些瑕疵可能会导致其他飞机坠毁。但他们经常需要面对相互矛盾的任务。如果空难涉及政府所有的航空公司或是政府提供的空中交通服务，抑或事发国的飞行员出现了操作失误，有些方面就可能试图推卸责任。（在美国，航空公司、飞机制造商乃至联邦航空管理局也会做出同样的事情，但是众所周知，在寻找决定性原因时，交通安全委员会一直是独立、不偏不倚和铁面无私的。）
In the Malaysian case, the safety board has sent its senior radar expert, who is a former air traffic controller and a veteran of many inquiries, including investigations of near-misses and of an air traffic controller who fell asleep in the tower at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington. Outside experts say the investigator, Scott Dunham, may be the single best person to make sense out of the limited civilian radar data and the route captured by military radar that may or may not show the missing aircraft.
在马来西亚这起事件中，安全委员会派出了自己的高级雷达专家。该专家曾是一名空中交通管理员，经验丰富，参与过许多调查，调查对象包括一些差点出事故的事件，以及一名在华盛顿罗纳德·里根国家机场(Ronald Reagan National Airport)控制塔里睡着了的空中交通管理员。外部专家称，名为斯科特·邓纳姆(Scott Dunham)的这名专家可能是最佳人选，有望从有限的民用雷达数据及军方雷达侦测到的飞行路线当中理出头绪。军方雷达侦测到的可能是失联飞机，也可能不是。
After its usual announcement that it was sending a team to assist the local authorities, the safety board was bombarded with questions. So it took the unusual step of issuing a second news release, emphasizing that the Malaysian authorities were leading the investigation, that American investigators were “providing technical assistance” and that it had no plans to comment further.
如常宣布派一队人马协助当地政府之后，安全委员会收到了一大堆问题。因此，该委员会采取了不同寻常的作法，发布了第二份新闻稿，强调主导调查的是马来西亚当局，美国调查人员只是“提供技术援助”，并且表示，委员会不打算进一步发表评论。