BANGKOK — An organization of relatives of passengers and crew members who were aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 when it vanished nearly two years ago has accused the Malaysian government of legal maneuvering that could deny them compensation from the airline.
曼谷——就在马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH370航班消失两年之际，机上乘客和机组人员亲属组成的一个团体指责，马来西亚政府采取了一些法律动作，阻挠他们对马航的索赔。
With the approach of a March 8 deadline for filing suit against the airline — the second anniversary of the ill-fated flight — some family members and lawyers contend that Malaysia's recent restructuring of the struggling national carrier could leave it without sufficient assets to compensate them.
3月8日是这架飞机消失两周年的日子，也是对马航提起诉讼的最后期限。随着这个日期的临近，一些家属和律师表示，马来西亚最近对这家陷入困境的国有航空公司进行重组的动作，可能会导致它没有足够的资金来提供赔偿。
“The government is trying to protect one of its businesses instead of allowing its citizens access to justice,” said Grace Nathan, a lawyer in the capital, Kuala Lumpur, whose mother was on the aircraft and who represents Voice 370, a support group for family members of passengers and crew members.
“政府正在力图保护自己的一家企业，而不是让公民伸张正义，”乘客和机组人员家属支持团体“370之声”(Voice 370)的代理律师格蕾丝·纳丹(Grace Nathan)说。她是马来西亚首都吉隆坡的一名律师，她的母亲搭乘了MH370航班。
Flight 370 was headed north from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people aboard when the aircraft, a Boeing 777, sharply altered course, turning west across the Malay Peninsula and then south for hours over the Indian Ocean, where investigators believe it ran out of fuel and crashed.
MH370从吉隆坡出发，向北飞往北京，机上载有239人。这架波音777客机突然掉头向西，穿过马来半岛，然后向南飞到印度洋上空，调查人员认为它在那里耗尽了燃料，然后坠毁。
The cause of the disappearance remains a mystery. One piece of wreckage, a wing part known as a flaperon, washed up in July on the distant island of Réunion in the Indian Ocean, but a lengthy ocean search has turned up no other debris from the plane.
MH370航班消失的原因仍然是一个谜。一块襟副翼残骸去年7月被冲到了印度洋上遥远的留尼旺岛，而漫长的海洋搜索行动没有找到任何其他残骸。
Malaysia Airlines was facing losses even before the plane's disappearance. Late in 2014, Malaysia's Parliament passed legislation restructuring the company, forming a new entity, Malaysia Airlines Berhad, to take over the carrier. The law also established new rules for compensation lawsuits, according to lawyers involved in the cases.
在这架飞机失踪之前，马航就已经面临亏损。2014年底，马来西亚议会通过法案，重组了这家企业，形成一个新的实体——马来西亚航空有限公司(Malaysia Airlines Berhad)——来接管马航。参与相关案件的律师说，这项法律还设定了赔偿诉讼的新规则。
Arunan Selvaraj, a lawyer representing about a dozen Flight 370 claimants, said the law had put the family members at a disadvantage.
阿鲁南·塞尔瓦拉吉(Arunan Selvaraj)是十几位原告的代理律师。他表示，那项法律让遇难者家属处于不利地位。
“Malaysia Airlines Berhad is a totally different entity,” he said. “They are transferring the liability. By the time people file their suits, there will be nothing left in Malaysia Airlines.”
“马来西亚航空有限公司是一家完全不同的实体，”他说。“他们是在转移责任。到人们提起诉讼时，原来的马航就什么都不剩了。”
But Malaysia's transport minister, Liow Tiong Lai, said in an interview Friday that the restructuring would not affect any compensation awarded to passengers' or crew members' relatives because the airline's insurance would cover costs.
但马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)周五接受采访时表示，重组不会影响判给乘客或机组成员家属的任何赔偿，因为相关费用是由马航的保险公司承担的。
“It should not be of any concern,” he said. “The insurance company is also responsible.”
“不应该有任何担心，”他说。“保险公司也是责任方。”
Relatives who are not satisfied with the negotiations have the right to sue the airline, he said. There has been a flurry of filings in recent days, and more suits are expected before the March 8 deadline. The Montreal Convention, the international agreement that governs the resolution of airline disputes, requires that lawsuits seeking such compensation be filed within two years.
他表示，对谈判不满的家属有权起诉马航。最近几天已经出现了一连串的起诉，预计在3月8日的最后期限之前，还会有更多诉讼。对航空争议的解决办法做出规定的国际条约《蒙特利尔公约》(Montreal Convention)要求这类索赔案件必须在两年以内起诉。
Many Flight 370 family members have been unhappy with Malaysia's handling of the disaster and its aftermath, expressing fears that the cause of the plane's disappearance may never be known. Some of them say that the government has not been forthcoming in its dealings with the families and hope that lawsuits against the airline will produce more information about what happened.
马来西亚对这场空难及其后续问题的处理，令很多MH370航班失踪人员的家属感到不满，他们表示担心飞机消失的原因可能永远都不得而知。他们当中的一些人说，政府在和家属接触时态度不友善，并称希望能通过起诉马航，了解到更多相关信息。
Nathan said some family members are irked by a requirement under the new rules that they get permission from the company before they can file suit. They say the company has used that authority to keep them from naming other government agencies as defendants, such as the Department of Civil Aviation or the Transport Ministry.
纳丹说，新规定要求家属要先得到马航的许可才能提起诉讼，这让一些家属很生气。他们说，马航利用这项权限，使他们无法把其他政府机构，如民航局或交通部列为被告。
Selvaraj said he had filed suit in one Flight 370 case before last February, when the new rules took effect, naming government agencies as well as the airline as defendants. Under the new rules, he said, he has faced more obstacles as he has sought permission to file suit on behalf of newer clients.
塞尔瓦拉吉说，在新规去年2月生效之前，他就一桩涉及MH370航班的案件提起了诉讼，把多个政府机构连同马航列为了被告。他表示，新规生效后，为代理新的当事人提起诉讼，寻求得到批准时遇到了更多障碍。