SANTA BARBARA, Calif. — WE’VE most of us, surely, heard all the figures: Humanity now produces as much data in two days as it did in all of history till the year 2003 — and the amount of data is doubling every two years. In the time you take to read this piece, the human race will generate as much data as currently exists in the Library of Congress. For that matter — yes, your inbox and Facebook page would reflect this — 10 percent of all the pictures ever taken as of the end of 2011 were taken in 2011. Yet as we think about how an entire Boeing 777 has gone missing for almost two weeks now, we’re also painfully reminded of how much we can’t — and may never — know, even in the Knowledge Economy.
加州圣芭芭拉——我们中的多数人无疑已听过所有这些数字：人类如今在两天内产生的数据和截至2003年的整个人类历史产生的数据总和相当——并且数据量每两年就会翻一番。你读这篇文章的时间里，人类生产的数据就相当于如今存在国会图书馆(Library of Congress)里的所有数据。另外——没错，你的收件箱和Facebook页面会反映出这一点——到2011年底你所有拍过的照片，其中的10%都是你在2011年拍的。然而，当我们想到这样一架波音(Boeing)777客机到现在消失已近两周，一种痛苦的方式提醒着我们，即便是在知识经济的时代，有多少是我们无法知道的——甚至可能是永远不会知道的。
The Nobel Prize-winning economist and psychologist Daniel Kahneman has noted, after decades of research, that it’s our nature to overestimate how much we understand the world and to underestimate the role of chance. And it’s our folly to assume we know very much at all. There’s “a highly objectionable word,” he writes, “which should be removed from our vocabulary in discussions of major events,” and that word is “knew.”
获得诺贝尔奖的经济学家和心理学家丹尼尔·卡尼曼(Daniel Kahneman)在经过几十年的研究后指出，我们出于本能会过高地估计我们对这个世界的认知，而低估了偶然性的作用。自认为我们知道不少东西，这本身就是愚蠢的。有一个“极其令人厌恶的字眼”，他写道，“应该在我们讨论重要事项时，从词汇表中删除”，那就是“知道”。
I think of this as I watch one expert after another offer informed guesses about the fate of the missing plane, even as all we know about it so far is how provisional — and contradictory — our speculations have been. I also recall how the words that most convey authority and credibility whenever I listen to any pundit speak are “I don’t know.” Whatever the field of our expertise, most of us realize that the more data we acquire, the less, very often, we know. The universe is not a fixed sum, in which the amount you know subtracts from the amount you don’t.
在看着一个接一个的专家就失踪客机的命运，在经过分析的基础上提出各种猜测时，我心里就是这么想的，尽管我们迄今为止所看到就是，我们的种种猜测是多么短暂，甚至是相互矛盾的。我也回忆起，不论何时我听任何权威专家讲话时，最能传达权威和信誉的字句就是“我不知道”。不论我们在哪个领域有所长，多数人都意识到，掌握的数据越多，我们所知道的就常常越少。天地万物并没有一个固定的总量，并不是说减去你所不知的事物，就是你所知的事物。
As Gardiner G. Hubbard, the first president of the National Geographic Society, said in 1888, when his magazine set out to chart everything in the known universe, “The more we know, the greater we find is our ignorance.” And it can often seem as if nature — or something beyond our reckoning at least — intrudes every time we’re tempted to get above ourselves. Whenever we begin to assume we can command or comprehend quite a bit, some Icarian calamity pushes our face, tragically, in the limits of our knowledge.
国家地理学会(National Geographic Society)第一任主席加德纳·G·哈伯德(Gardiner G. Hubbard)在1888年曾说，当他的杂志开始记录既知宇宙的一切事物时，“我们知道的越多，就发现我们更加无知。”看起来常常是这样的：每当我们想要自鸣得意的时候，大自然——或者至少是超出我们认知的一些事物——就会不请自来。每当我们开始认为，我们能够掌握和理解许多事物时，一些突如其来的灾难就会出现，以悲剧的方式提醒我们，我们的认知多么有限。
It’s been humbling, as well as horrifying, to see the entire globe, in an age of unprecedented data accumulation, up in the air, more or less, but poignantly aware that, whatever we do learn, a grief beyond understanding is likely to be a part of it.
在这样一个年代，数据收集之规模前所未有，而我们仍然眼看着整个地球或多或少地处在一种悬而未决的状态，但也同时酸楚地意识到，不论我们掌握了什么，可能还是会有一种超出认知的悲哀。这使人感到自己的渺小，也感到恐惧。
We imagine how those with loved ones on the plane must be trying to fill the absence, of knowledge as well as of their sons or wives, and how they may fear, even if at times they long for, certainty. We imagine the people on the aircraft, whose not-knowing might have been felt on the pulse, accelerating, as the vessel suddenly changed course. We translate the story into our own lives, and think about how the things we don’t know haunt and possess us as the things we do seldom can.
我们设想，那些有亲友在那架飞机上的人，一定在努力填补自己认知的空白，以及他们的儿子或妻子留下的空白，他们可能又会如何惧怕确定的答案，即便有时那正是他们渴望得到的。我们设想，当那架飞机突然改变航线时，机上的人们并不知情，但是他们的身体能够感觉到脉搏在加快。我们会把故事转介到我们自己身上，设想我们所不知的那些事物是如何困扰并左右着我们，我们所知的那些事物是很少能做到这一点的。
Even if we do learn more about the fate of the airliner, it’s unlikely that all of our questions will ever be answered. And the memory of how much we didn’t know — and how long we didn’t know it — ought to sober us as we prepare for the next sudden visitation of the inexplicable.
即便我们的确掌握了有关这架班机命运的更多情况，也不太可能为我们所有的问题找到答案，可能永远不会。我们有多么无知，我们又是在多长时间里对这种无知而不知，这样的记忆应该能让我们清醒起来，同时准备迎接下一次突然到来的无法解释的灾难。
We’re all grateful that we know as much as we do these days, and enjoy lives that are safer, longer, healthier and better connected than those of any generation before ours. Yet each day that passes, Malaysia 370 keeps hovering like a terrible blank in our minds, more visible the longer it’s out of our view.
对于我们如今能掌握这样多的信息，过着比以往任何年代都更安全、长寿、健康以及更联通的生活，我们都心存感激。然而每过一天，马航370航班都像一块可怕的空白，在我们的脑中盘旋，离开我们的视线越久，就越清晰可见。