You’ll never be confused about who the enemy is in “Women Who Flirt,” Pang Ho-cheung’s new romantic comedy. Hailey (Tang Sui) is the kind of passive-aggressive young woman who talks in a babyish voice to men, reacts to a scratch on her leg as if it might require amputation and bursts into tears at less than the drop of a hat, demanding at higher and higher volume to be consoled. In one restaurant scene, Hailey sobs like a stricken toddler and insists on being taken home after learning that her main course is a rabbit delicacy. (“Girls don’t eat bunnies!” she wails.)
彭浩翔的爱情喜剧新片《撒娇女人最好命》(Women Who Flirt)里的敌人是谁？你绝对不会搞错的。蓓蓓（隋棠饰）是那种被动攻击型的年轻女子，她对男人说话时嗲声嗲气，腿上擦破皮，就叫得像是要截肢，动不动就掉眼泪，要求越来越多的抚慰。在餐馆那场戏里，蓓蓓知道主菜是兔肉做的，哭得像个悲伤的孩子，要求被送回家。
The only reason we care about Hailey is that Marco (Huang Xiaoming) has fallen for her, and Angie (Zhou Xun), Marco’s work colleague and best friend since college, had always kind of planned to marry him herself. Angie — everybody gets Western names in the English subtitles — is beautiful, but Marco can’t see that (“She’s a dude,” he says repeatedly) because she’s a sensible type with short hair and a grown-up job. The plot consists of Angie’s more blatantly sexy female friends’ teaching her how to look and behave like an idiot.
我们关心蓓蓓的唯一原因是恭恭（黄晓明饰）爱上了她，而他的同事、从大学起的死党张慧（周迅饰）一直有点打算嫁给他。张慧（英文字幕里用的全是英文名）很漂亮，但是恭恭没看出来（“她就是个男人，”他总是这样说），因为她是那种理智型的女人，留着短发，有份成熟的工作。故事情节中包括张慧那些穿着暴露、更性感的闺蜜们教她如何表现得像个傻瓜。
This does give us that Doris Day-era Hollywood movie staple, the trying-on-glamorous-dresses scene, and a drawn-out explanation and demonstration of how to show off your décolletage by reaching for something you’ve dropped on the floor. (Jennifer Coolidge did it much better in “Legally Blonde.”)
这的确让我们想起多丽丝·戴(Doris Day)时代的好莱坞电影，里面有试穿各种性感连衣裙的场景，还有一些冗长乏味的镜头，解释和展示如何去捡掉在地板上的东西，以卖弄低胸装（詹妮弗·库利奇[Jennifer Coolidge]在《律政俏佳人》[Legally Blonde]中的展示要比这好得多）。
The film is exaggerated, ludicrous and simplistic. It shows a towering disdain for both men and women. But Angie and Marco have a certain good-natured charm, and there are some nice shots of Shanghai.
这部电影夸张、滑稽，过于简单。它对男人和女人都表现出过度蔑视。但是张慧和恭恭有某种和善的魅力，里面关于上海的一些镜头也很好看。