CHISINAU, Moldova — It was not enough for Dmitri O. Rogozin, a deputy prime minister of Russia, to warn darkly that it would be “a grave mistake” for Moldova to seek closer ties with Europe.
摩尔多瓦基希纳乌——俄罗斯副总理德米特里·O·罗戈津(Dmitri O. Rogozin)已经阴森森地警告过摩尔多瓦，企图拉近和欧洲的距离将是“一个重大的错误”，但这还不够。
Mr. Rogozin, wrapping up a visit here last month, let fly a threat about the coming winter in this impoverished former Soviet republic, which is entirely dependent on Russian gas for heat. “We hope that you will not freeze,” he said.
在结束上个月对摩尔多瓦的访问时，罗戈津借着即将到来的冬天对这个贫穷的前苏联共和国大加威胁，“我们希望你们不要冻僵，”他说。摩尔多瓦的冬季供暖完全依靠俄罗斯的天然气。
The squeeze was just beginning. Next, the Russian Orthodox patriarch, Kirill I, in a rare personal appearance here, denounced Western Europe, “where religion is simply disappearing.” And three days later, the sharpest blow: Russian officials, citing vague health concerns, banned Moldovan wine, one of the country’s most important exports.
威逼才刚刚开始。接下来，极少在这里露面的俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)大牧首基里尔一世(Kirill I)对西欧进行了谴责，“宗教在那里根本已经消失。”三天后，最猛烈的一击来了：俄罗斯官方以模糊的饮用安全问题为由，对摩尔多瓦葡萄酒实施禁令，这是该国最重要的出口产品之一。
The bullying, which the Kremlin denies, is not directed at Moldova alone. Ahead of a conference next month where the European Union plans to advance political and trade accords with several ex-Soviet republics, Russia has been whispering threats and gripping throats, bluntly telling smaller neighbors that they would be better off joining Russia’s customs union with Kazakhstan and Belarus.
这种克里姆林宫矢口否认的恐吓行动并非只针对摩尔多瓦。眼看欧盟(European Union)计划在下个月的一次大会上和多个前苏联共和国达成政治和贸易协议，俄罗斯已经在或明或暗地发出威胁，直截了当地对那些比它弱小的邻国说，它们最好还是跟哈萨克斯坦和白俄罗斯一起加入俄罗斯的海关联盟。
The frantic push to retain influence, with its echoes of cold war jousting, reflects the still-palpable fury among Russian officials over NATO’s expansion into the former Soviet sphere and a desire to halt a similar, eastward extension of European economic power. The heavy-handed tactics have wreaked economic chaos throughout the region in recent months.
这种为维持影响力而进行的疯狂行动让人联想起冷战时代的竞赛，表明北约(NATO)向前苏联领地的扩张在俄罗斯官员中激起了强烈的不满。俄罗斯同时还希望遏制住欧洲经济力量发起的一场类似的东进行动。近几个月来，这种粗暴的手段已经给整个地区的经济带来了混乱。
Nowhere, however, is the pressure more intense than here in Moldova, a tiny, landlocked nation of 3.6 million people wedged between Romania and Ukraine that is by far the poorest country on the Continent, with annual economic output of about $3,500 per person — less than half that of Albania.
不过，摩尔多瓦所承受的压力是比其他地方要大的，这个360万人口的内陆小国夹在罗马尼亚和乌克兰之间，目前是欧洲大陆最穷的国家，每年的人均经济产出约为3500美元（约合人民币2.1万元）——不及阿尔巴尼亚的一半。
In addition to the ban on Moldovan wine, there have been rumors that tens of thousands of Moldovans who work in Russia would be expelled in an immigration crackdown, cutting off a financial lifeline for many families. There are also fears of a ban on apples or other produce, which would be devastating if imposed during harvest season.
除了摩尔多瓦葡萄酒禁令以外，有传闻说一场打击移民的行动可能会将数万名在俄罗斯工作的摩尔多瓦人驱逐出境，让许多家庭的经济来源被切断。此外还有人担心苹果等产品也会被禁，这种禁令如果在收获季节实施将造成灾难性后果。
Rather than intimidating leaders of the country’s fragile coalition government, however, Russia’s tactics have only cemented their resolve to complete the political and free trade agreements with the European Union.
然而这个国家脆弱的联盟政府的领导人们并没有被吓倒，俄罗斯的手段反而让他们愈发下定决心，要完成和欧盟的政治和自由贸易协议。
“The signing of these agreements is the only chance that Moldova has in order to develop itself as a European country and in the European spirit,” President Nicolae Timofti said in an interview.
“摩尔多瓦要想将自己发展成为一个具备欧洲精神的欧洲国家，唯一的机会就是签署这些协议，”总统尼古拉·蒂莫夫蒂(Nicolae Timofti)在接受采访时说。
Mr. Timofti said it was clear that the ban on wine imports was about politics and Russia’s increasingly unrealistic goal of reuniting the former Soviet republics in an economic alliance through the customs union.
蒂莫夫蒂说，葡萄酒进口禁令显然是出于政治目的的，俄罗斯要通过海关联盟将前苏联共和国重新组成一个经济联盟的想法正变得越来越不现实。
“We realize Russia has geopolitical interests in this area but there is also a saying here — ‘You cannot enter the same river twice,’ ” the president said. “It is impossible to recreate the union that used to exist. However, Russia does take action to keep its influence over this region.”
“我们明白俄罗斯对这个地区有地缘政治上的考虑，但另一方面，我们这里的老话说，‘你不能两次踏入同一条河’，”总统说。“重建一个曾经存在的联盟是不可能的事。不过俄罗斯还是在努力保持它在这个地区的影响力。”
In interviews, Mr. Timofti and other government officials said the Russian approach was backfiring, both politically and economically, leading businesses to reduce their reliance on the Russian market.
在接受采访时，蒂莫夫蒂和其他政府官员都说俄罗斯的举措无论在政治还是经济上都起到了反作用，促使企业开始减少它们对俄罗斯市场的依赖。
European leaders have condemned Russia’s efforts and undertaken countermeasures, like lifting limits in the current trade rules on tariff-free imports of Moldovan wine.
欧洲领导人对俄罗斯的行动表示的谴责，并在采取反制措施，比如取消目前贸易规则中对摩尔多瓦葡萄酒免关税进口的限制。
“We will keep telling our friends in Moscow, it is unacceptable that our partners are being subject to any kind of pressure,” Stefan Fule, the European commissioner for enlargement and neighborhood policy, said at a recent news conference here with Prime Minister Iurie Leanca.
欧盟扩大事务和邻国政策专员史蒂芬·傅勒(Stefan Fule)前不久和摩尔多瓦总理尤里·莱安卡(Iurie Leanca)共同举行了新闻发布会，傅勒说，“我们会不断地跟我们在莫斯科的朋友说，对我们的合作伙伴施加任何压力都是不能接受的。”
Mr. Fule said that the agreement under consideration “has clear benefits not only to our neighbors, Moldova, but to our neighbors’ neighbors.”
傅勒说，正在考虑中的协议“显然对我们的邻居摩尔多瓦有益，而且对我们邻居的邻居也是如此。”
The Communist Party, which still has the single largest bloc in Parliament and currently opposes the political and trade pacts with Europe, this month began demanding early elections in an effort to dislodge the current government. On Tuesday, Parliament for the second time in two weeks rejected a vote of “no confidence” in the government proposed by the Communists. 
该国议会中最大的党派仍然是共产党，共产党反对与欧洲签订政治和贸易协定。这个月，共产党开始要求提前举行大选，目的是将本届政府赶下台。本周二，议会在两周内第二次驳回了共产党发起的针对现政府的“不信任”投票。
The government nearly fell apart earlier this year after a bizarre series of events that began last December when a businessman was accidentally killed on a hunting trip involving some of the country’s top officials, including Vlad Filat, then the prime minister, who was ousted in the ensuing controversy.
在发生了一系列离奇事件之后，摩尔多瓦政府几乎在今年早些时候分崩离析。第一起事件发生在去年12月，一名商人在和该国一些最高官员狩猎时被意外杀死，时任总理的弗拉德·菲拉特(Vlad Filat)也在这些官员之中，随之而来的争议导致他下台。
The current prime minister, Mr. Leanca, said that while the government was pursuing overhauls, including anticorruption measures and an overhaul of the judicial system, in hopes of eventually joining the European Union, the outcome was not yet certain. “There are still threats, and it comes from the fact that we have not reached yet the irreversibility of our development, of our future path,” Mr. Leanca said.
现任总理莱安卡说，虽然政府正在进行彻底整改，包括推行反腐措施和整改司法系统，希望最终能加入欧盟，但结果尚不能确定。“威胁还在，因为我们还没有不可逆转地走上发展之路，走上我们的未来之路。”莱安卡说。
In an interview, he described Moldova as at a crossroads. “We could go one way, which would mean embracing democratic values and on those values to build a viable society, and a functioning society with a prosperous economy,” he said. “Or we can stay forever in this gray area, where there is no rule of law, where people do not have confidence in their future and therefore they leave the country.”
在一次采访中，他说摩尔多瓦处在一个十字路口。“我们可以走的一条路是拥抱民主价值观，并在这种价值观的基础上建设一个可以发展的社会，一个可以正常运转的、经济繁荣的社会。”他说。“我们也可以永远留在现在的灰色地带，没有法治，人们对未来有没有信心，并为此纷纷离开这个国家。”