The Chinese Internet firm Qihoo 360 Technology Company has significantly increased its bet on a Brazilian cloud-based online security company, PSafe Tecnologia, by leading a $30 million round, the company said Wednesday.
本周三，中国互联网公司奇虎360科技有限公司表示，通过领投一轮3000万美元（约合1.8亿元人民币）的融资，已大幅增加其对基于云计算的在线安全公司PSafe科技公司的投资。
Redpoint Ventures, Redpoint e.ventures and Pinnacle Ventures were all early investors in PSafe and also participated in the new financing round. The new investments, which closed last month, value PSafe at approximately $130 million.
红点投资公司(Redpoint Ventures)、红点e.ventures和顶峰投资(Pinnacle Ventures)都是PSafe的早期投资人，他们也参与了本轮新融资。已于上月结束的新融资对Psafe的估值大约为1.3亿美元。
Qihoo 360’s stake was not disclosed, but it becomes the largest investor in PSafe, with Redpoint right behind it. It is thought to be one of the largest investments by a Chinese firm in a Brazilian Internet start-up.
各方并未披露奇虎360获得了Psafe多少股份，不过，该公司成了Psafe最大的投资者，红点投资紧随其后。本轮投资被认为是中国公司对巴西互联网初创企业规模最大的投资实例之一。
PSafe, which is part of the Rio de Janeiro-based holding company Grupo Xango, was co-founded by a former Microsoft executive, Marco De Mello.
Psafe是总部位于里约热内卢的控股公司Xango集团的子公司，该公司由微软(Microsoft)的一名前总监马尔科·德梅洛(Marco De Mello)与人联合创立。
The investment by Qihoo reflects the growing international ambitions of Chinese Internet companies, which are no longer content just to compete in the domestic online business while contending with government censorship and website blocking.
奇虎的投资反映了中国互联网公司日益膨胀的国际野心，他们不再满足于一边和政府审查及网络封锁作斗争，一边仅参与国内网络业务的竞争。
A leading Chinese Internet services company, Tencent, introduced its WeChat mobile communications platform, in Brazil in July. Baidu is testing a Portuguese version of its search engine and considering an introduction for next year, according to recent Brazilian news reports.
主要的中国互联网服务商腾讯公司于今年7月在巴西推出了其旗下的微信移动通讯平台。根据巴西最近的新闻报道，百度正在测试一款葡萄牙语版的搜索引擎，而且考虑在明年将其推出。
In China, Qihoo has been involved in legal battles with Tencent. It also recently lost out to that company in a contest to forge a partnership with the Chinese search engine firm Sogou.
在中国，奇虎陷入了和腾讯的法律之战。在和中国搜索引擎公司搜狗打造伙伴关系的竞争中，它也在最近输给了后者。
Qihoo started looking at Brazil in 2010, providing a small investment to PSafe when it was founded at the suggestion of Redpoint, which had been an early investor in Qihoo. Qihoo also provided PSafe a license to use its antivirus cloud-scanning technology in Latin America.
奇虎在2010年开始关注巴西。Psafe创立之初，奇虎在红点投资公司的建议下提供了一小笔资金，红点曾是奇虎的早期投资人。奇虎还给Psafe颁发了许可证，允许后者在拉丁美洲使用奇虎的云扫描杀毒技术。
In 2010, “we were not very clear about the future of PSafe,” said Li Tao, Qihoo’s vice president of business development and international operations. “We made that investment as a test.”
负责商业发展及国际运营的奇虎副总裁李涛说，在2010年，“我们不是很清楚Psafe的未来，我们当时把那次投资作为一次试水。”
But now, it sees so much potential that it did not seek out new investors in the latest funding round.
然而现在，奇虎看到了巨大潜力，以至于该公司在最近一轮投资中没有寻找新投资者。
“We decided that it is in Qihoo’s best interests to see PSafe fully develop and help it become of the best Internet security companies in Latin America,” Mr. Li said.
李涛说，“我们认定，见证Psafe获得充分的发展，帮助它成为拉丁美洲最棒的互联网安全公司，符合奇虎的最高利益。”
Jeff Brody, Redpoint’s founding partner, said that Latin America was providing a lot of opportunities for Chines firms as other markets mature. “For a lot of Chinese companies, the U.S. and Europe are tough,” he said. “Brazil and Latin America are pretty attractive and have many parallels.”
红点投资公司创始合伙人杰夫·布罗迪(Jeff Brody)说，随着其他市场的饱和，拉丁美洲正在给中国公司提供大量的机会。他说，“对许多中国公司而言，美国和欧洲的市场相当严酷。巴西和其他拉丁美洲国家是非常具有吸引力的，而且它们和中国有许多相似之处。”