The designer Faye Toogood finds exceptional beauty in unexpected arrangements of objects, and uses them to create installations for fashion houses — and her own house.
设计师法耶·图古德(Faye Toogood)在出人意料的物品摆放中找到了特别的美感，用它们来装饰时装店和自己的家。
When Faye Toogood was 21, fresh out of college, she showed up for a job interview with Min Hogg, the founding editor and creative force of The World of Interiors magazine, with a suitcase in hand. In it was a résumé of sorts — cuttings of favorite fabrics and loose pictures of furniture and art that she admired. Hogg hired her on the spot, and Toogood spent most of the next decade at the magazine, producing witty, inventive still life stories.
法耶·图古德21岁刚从大学毕业时去参加米恩·霍格(Min Hogg)主持的面试。霍格是《室内设计世界》(The World of Interiors)的创始编辑和创意人员。图古德拿着一个手提箱，里面装的算是她的简历——她喜欢的面料的碎片，她欣赏的家具和艺术品的零散图片。霍格当场聘用了她，图古德在接下来的十年的大部分时间为该杂志工作，创造出机智的、别出心裁的静物故事。
The hallmark of Toogood’s work was, according to her, “the combination of the unexpected and the theatrical with something tactile or handmade, even painterly.” (For one shoot, she styled glamorous dressing tables with wildly overscaled mirrors, lipstick and pearls in the grand but ghostly hotel in the St. Pancras train station, before it was renovated.) She continues to explore unusual juxtapositions today with Studio Toogood, which she started when she left the magazine in 2008, and which designs interiors and also retail spaces, installations and visual materials for brands like Comme des Garçons, Alexander McQueen, Opening Ceremony and Tom Dixon. (Toogood also designs her own lines of furniture.)
据图古德说，她的作品的特点是“把意想不到的和戏剧化的东西与具有实体感觉的或手工制作的东西、甚至美术品结合起来。”（比如，在圣潘克拉斯火车站的那个幽灵般的宏伟酒店翻修之前，她用超大号镜子、口红和珍珠装饰迷人的梳妆台。）如今她继续在图古德工作室(Studio Toogood)探索不同寻常的物品并置，这家工作室是她2008年离开那个杂志社后开设的，除了室内设计，它还给很多品牌设计零售店、装置作品和视觉宣传材料，比如川久保玲(Comme des Garçons)，亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)，开幕式(Opening Ceremony)和汤姆·迪克森(Tom Dixon)。（图古德还有自己设计的家具系列。）
Toogood’s affection for contrasts is clearly at play in the cozy late-Georgian London house she shares with her husband and young daughter. Its small rooms are filled with things antique and modern, fine and flea market, pristine and mended. “I like to combine the precious and the raw,” she explains.
图古德位于伦敦的舒适的、后乔治王时代风格的家清楚地表现出她对对比的喜爱。她和丈夫、小女儿住在这里。家中的小房间里放满了古董的和现代的东西，精美的和跳蚤市场的东西，质朴的和修补过的东西。“我喜欢把珍贵的和质朴的东西结合起来，”她解释说。
Toogood describes herself as an obsessive tinkerer, who can’t help but “adapt, meddle or adjust” things, whether it’s a look book for a fashion house, the furniture for a pop-up shop or a row of teacups and plates on a shelf at home. For an installation this month at the Hermès store in London, Toogood riffs on the company’s iconic Birkins and Kellys by using the negative shapes left behind by the artisans after the leather hides are cut to make the bags. For her sitting-room mantelpiece, Toogood arrayed a deer skull, an 18th-century creamware pitcher, carved Indian alabaster vases and gleaming chunks of iron pyrite. “I find a harmony in those objects,” she says. “Of course, when I get a new object, everything has to be rearranged.”
图古德说自己是个有强迫症的修补匠，总是忍不住“改变、修补或调整”物品，不管是时装公司的时装画册、品牌游击店的家具还是家里架子上的一排茶杯和盘子。在为伦敦爱马仕(Hermès)店铺所做的装置作品中，图古德以该公司标志性的铂金包(Birkin)和凯莉包(Kelly)包做文章，用工匠做皮包剩下的，带有裁剪轮廓的皮料作设计。图古德在自家客厅的壁炉架上摆放了一个鹿头骨、一个18世纪的奶油色大陶罐、印度大理石花瓶和闪闪发光的黄铁矿块。“我在这些物品中找到了一种协调，”她说，“当然，我得到新物品后，所有的东西都必须重新摆放。”
Toogood’s still-life obsession goes back to her childhood in the English countryside, where she would take disparate objects that she’d found outdoors — rocks, birds’ eggs, a piece of broken pottery — and arrange them in her room. She inherited her father’s love of nature, its textures and its contrasts of light and dark. Even now in London, Toogood said, the garden behind her house and the nearby New River, a 17th-century aqueduct, are “my escape.”
图古德对静物的迷恋可以追溯到她在英国乡下度过的童年，那时她会把在户外找到的毫不相干的东西——石头、鸟蛋、破碎的陶器的一块碎片——拿回家，摆放在自己的房间里。她从父亲那里继承了对自然的热爱，包括它的结构和光与暗的对比。图古德说，即使现在在伦敦，她家后面的花园和附近的新河——一个17世纪的沟渠——仍是“我的消遣之地”。
Later, at the University of Bristol, Toogood studied art history, where “you scrutinize still lifes and compositions,” and fine arts, honing visual skills that would be nurtured under Hogg’s tutelage at The World of Interiors. Hogg believed, Toogood explains, “that the interior of a 13th-century chapel in Italy, a mud hut in Africa and a squat in East London are all of equal beauty and value. She also taught me things like how important it is to be independent in spirit.”
后来，图古德在布里斯托大学学习艺术史，她在那里“仔细研究静物和物品构造”以及美术作品，磨练了视觉技巧，这种技巧后来在《室内设计世界》得到了霍格的进一步指导和培养。图古德解释说，霍格认为“意大利13世纪的小教堂、非洲的泥土小屋和伦敦东部的小房子的内部装饰具有同样的美感和价值。她还教给我其他一些东西，比如，在精神上保持独立是多么重要”。
It was at the magazine that Toogood met her husband, Matt Gibberd, who wrote about architecture and was Toogood’s editor; the two married in 2008. Gibberd went on to co-found the Modern House, a real-estate agency that specializes in Modernist and contemporary houses and apartments in Britain. “Matt grew up in a minimalist environment,” Toogood says. (His father and grandfather were architects.) When she told him she wanted to paint parts of their house a glossy deep blue, he assented, but with reservations. “So we agreed that some rooms should be light,” she says.
图古德在那家杂志社遇到了丈夫马特·吉伯德(Matt Gibberd)，他撰写建筑方面的文章，是图古德的编辑；他们2008年结婚。吉伯德后来跟人合开了现代房屋(Modern House)公司，这家房地产中介公司专做英国现代主义和当代的房屋和公寓。“马特在极简主义环境中长大，”图古德说。（他父亲和祖父是建筑师。）当她告诉他她想把家里的某些地方涂成闪亮的深蓝色时，他同意了，但是有保留意见。“所以我们决定把某些房间涂成白色，”她说。
When the pair bought their house in Islington about five years ago, it was, she says, “a typical London house: little rooms stacked one on top of the other.” After stripping the wood floors of layers of yellowed varnish and painting the rooms in a moody palette of grays, blues and whites — colors that “remind me of the English landscape,” she said — Toogood filled the house with her idiosyncratic collections of furniture, art and objects. As in all her work, Toogood’s taste in these elements runs toward the clean-lined and minimally adorned, like the 18th-century blue and white slipware dish on the mantelpiece in the back sitting room. “It looks 1950s to me,” she says. “I love things that are really old but look modern.”
她说，大约五年前这对夫妻在伊斯灵顿买下这座房子时，它是个“典型的伦敦房子：小房间一个堆在另一个上”。在剥去木质地板上的一层层发黄的油漆、把房间涂成多彩多姿的灰色、蓝色和白色——她说这些颜色“让我想起了英国的景色”——之后，图古德在房间里放满了她收藏的特别的家具、艺术品和物品。和图古德所有的作品一样，她在这些元素中的品味倾向于线条简洁、极少修饰的东西，比如后客厅壁炉台上的蓝白施釉陶器。“它看起来像20世纪50年代的，”她说，“我喜欢那些真的很古老但是看起来很现代的东西。”