WASHINGTON — Anxious congressional Democrats are threatening to abandon President Obama on a central element of his signature health care law, voicing increasing support for proposals that would allow Americans who are losing their health insurance coverage because of the Affordable Care Act to retain it.
华盛顿——忧心忡忡的民主党国会议员正在发出威胁，在奥巴马的标志性医改法案的一项核心条款上不再支持总统，转而支持另外一种主张，即允许那些因为《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)而失去医保的美国人保留其现有保险计划。
The dissent comes as the Obama administration released enrollment figures on Wednesday that fell far short of expectations, and as House Republicans continued their sharp criticism of administration officials at congressional hearings examining the performance of the health care website and possible security risks of the online insurance exchanges.
周三，奥巴马政府公布了远低于预期的参保数字，异议也随之而来。于此同时，在国会听证会审查医保网站的运行情况和在线保险交易所可能出现的安全风险时，众议院共和党人继续对白宫官员提出严厉批评。
In addition, a vote is scheduled Friday in the Republican-controlled House on a bill that would allow Americans to keep their existing health coverage through 2014 without penalties. The measure, drafted by Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, is opposed by the White House, which argues that it would severely undermine the Affordable Care Act by allowing insurance companies to continue to sell health coverage that does not meet the higher standard of Mr. Obama’s health care law.
除此之外，由共和党控制的众议院将定于周五对一项法案投票，该法案允许美国人在无需遭受罚款的情况下将他们现有的医疗保险维持到2014年。这项议案由密歇根州共和党众议员、能源和商务委员会(Energy and Commerce Committee)主席弗雷德·厄普顿(Fred Upton)起草，遭到了白宫的反对，后者认为它会允许保险公司继续销售不符合奥巴马医疗改革法案提出的较高标准的医疗保险，因而极大地破坏《合理医疗费用法案》。
But a growing number of House Democrats, reflecting a strong political backlash to the rollout of the law, are warning the White House that they may support the measure if the administration does not provide a strong alternative argument. The approaching House vote is shaping up as an important test for both the health measure and the unity that Democratic leaders have so far been able to maintain around it despite a fierce Republican attack.
但是作为对该法案所引发的强烈抗议的反应，越来越多的民主党众议员警告白宫，如果奥巴马政府无法提出其他有力的说法，他们可能会支持这项法案。众议院即将举行的这场投票将成为一次重要的考验，既是对这项医保法案的、也是对民主党领导层能否维持党内团结的考验。迄今为止，尽管遭到了共和党的强烈攻击，民主党领袖们还是在这一问题上保持了党内的团结一致。
In a closed-door meeting Wednesday of House Democrats and White House officials, tensions flared as several lawmakers upbraided the administration, saying that the president had put Democrats in a tough political position by wrongly promising consumers that they could keep their existing health care plans. In fact, hundreds of thousands of Americans have received cancellation notices from their insurers because their health care coverage does not meet the minimum standards dictated by the new law.
周三，在民主党众议员和白宫官员的一次闭门会议上，几位议员对白宫进行了谴责，称总统错误地承诺已购买医疗保险的人们，他们可以保留现有的医保计划，这将民主党置于极为不利的政治形势中，会议气氛紧张。事实上，数十万的美国人已经收到来自他们保险公司的取消通知，因为他们的医保方案达不到新法规定下的最低标准。
“I’m frustrated in how it rolled out, and I let them know in no uncertain terms,” said Representative Mike Doyle, Democrat of Pennsylvania. “The point I was making in caucus to the administration is don’t give us this techno-babble that you’re going to do some administrative fix down the road. There’s a bill being put on the floor on Friday.”
宾夕法尼亚州民主党众议员迈克·多伊尔(Mike Doyle)说，“新法的实施方式让我倍感沮丧，我明确地告诉了他们这一点。我在党团会议上向白宫提出的观点是，不要再扯什么术语，含糊地告诉我们，说你们未来将运用行政手段来解决问题。国会到周五就要投票了。”
The overall message of the meeting, said several attendees, was that the White House and the House Democratic leadership have until Friday to come up with a satisfactory alternative, or House Democrats may be forced to support Mr. Upton’s bill, which already has two Democratic co-sponsors: Representatives John Barrow of Georgia and Mike McIntyre of North Carolina, who represent more conservative districts.
据几位参会者说，这场会议传递出的总体信号是，白宫和众议院民主党领导层要在周五前提出一个令人满意的替代方案，不然的话，民主党众议员就可能会被迫支持厄普顿的法案。目前，已经有两位民主党人成为这项法案的共同发起人：乔治亚州众议员约翰·巴罗(John Barrow)和北卡罗来纳州众议员迈克·麦金太尔(Mike McIntyre)，他们代表了更保守的地区。
“I think the Upton bill is terrible, but we need something else to vote for in order to keep our word to the American people,” Mr. Doyle added. “We told people in those plans that they were grandfathered in, and if they wanted to stay in them, they could, and we need to honor that.”
多伊尔补充说，“我觉得厄普顿的法案很糟糕，但我们也需要有其他可投的东西，来兑现我们对美国人的承诺。我们对已参保的人说，他们可以不受新法约束，如果他们想保留原来的保险计划，他们可以这么做。那么我们就需要信守这一承诺。”
A similar proposal, which would allow people to keep their current health insurance permanently, is also drawing support in the Senate under an effort led by Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana. Ms. Landrieu said she remained committed to her bill, despite resistance from the White House. But she drew a distinction between her plan — which she said would maintain the key provisions of the Affordable Care Act — and those offered by Republicans that would dismantle the law, like the one introduced by Mr. Upton.
由路易斯安那州民主党参议员玛丽·L·兰德里欧(Mary L.Landrieu)牵头发起的一项类似提案——允许人们永久保留现有医保计划——也正在参议院获得支持。兰德里欧表示，尽管受到白宫的抵制，她仍会努力为她的法案争取支持。但她表示，自己的提案将保留《合理医疗费用法案》的关键条款，与共和党人的提案截然不同，后者会破坏该法，比如厄普顿提出的法案。
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Wednesday that he had had “quite a long conversation” with the president on Tuesday evening about the health care law, as well as other issues, and would be holding a special Democratic caucus meeting on Thursday with White House officials to discuss the next steps.
周三，参议院多数派领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)表示，他和总统已于周二晚间就医保法案及其他问题进行了“长谈”，他将于周四与白宫官员举行一场民主党党团特别会议，讨论下一步举措。
Administration officials conceded that the bungled health care rollout had produced a turbulent political situation in Washington. But they said they were confident that fixing the website, HealthCare.gov, would help Democrats in next year’s elections.
白宫官员承认医保计划的开展不力，已经为华盛顿带来了一个不安定的政治局势。但他们表示，他们确信修复HealthCare.gov网站将有助于民主党人明年的选举。
“Politics follows policy here,” Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters.
白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)告诉记者，“在这里，政治跟着保单走。”
Mr. Carney said the president’s top aides were working quickly to come up with an administrative fix to the problem of the cancellation of health insurance plans. But he declined to say when that would be announced or whether it would come before Democrats are asked to vote on Friday.
卡尼表示，总统的高级助手们正在加紧提出一个行政措施来解决医疗保险计划的取消问题。但他拒绝透露何时公布解决办法，也不说是否会在民主党人于周五投票前进行公布。
“Sooner rather than later,” Mr. Carney said several times.
卡尼多次表示，“宜早不宜迟”。
White House officials said they recognized the need for Democrats to vent their frustration about the health care problems. Mr. Carney said that the dissatisfaction felt by Democrats on Capitol Hill “is similar to the frustration that the president feels.”
白宫官员表示，他们意识到民主党人需要发泄对医保问题的不满。卡尼表示，国会民主党人感到不满，“总统也同样失望。”
But they continued to oppose Mr. Upton’s bill, saying it would create more problems than it would solve.
但他们依然反对厄普顿提出的法案，称该法案带来的问题会比解决的问题多。
“Intentionally or not, the bill would not just address the problem,” Mr. Carney said, adding that it would “essentially allow insurers to sell new plans that are substandard and potentially undermine the central promise of the Affordable Care Act.”
卡尼说，“无论是有意还是无意，该法案不会只是解决问题。”他还表示，该法案“本质上允许承保人出售不符合标准的、可能会破坏《合理医疗费用法案》核心承诺的新保险计划。”
Insurance companies, already deeply worried about the low enrollment in the plans they are offering on the insurance exchanges, say congressional proposals to force them to allow canceled policies to be reissued could be disastrous. Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s lobby, said insurers “have significant concerns on how it would work operationally.”
保险公司已经因在保险交易所推出的保险计划投保率极低而倍感担忧，他们表示，国会提案迫使它们准许重签已被取消的保单，这将带来灾难性的后果。保险业游说团体“美国医疗保险计划”(America’s Health Insurance Plans)发言人罗伯特·齐克尔巴赫(Robert Zirkelbach)表示，承保人“对这项议案的可行性非常担心。”