WASHINGTON —  President Obama made a vigorous appeal to Congress on Thursday to give breathing space to his efforts to forge a nuclear deal with Iran, and the prospects for an interim agreement may have improved with the release of a report by international inspectors who said that for the first time in years, they saw evidence that the Iranians have put the brakes on their nuclear expansion.
华盛顿——本周四，奥巴马总统向国会发出强烈呼吁，希望他们给政府跟伊朗达成核协议的努力提供喘息空间。现在，随着一份出自国际核查员的报告的到来，达成临时协议的可能性有所提升，因为报告称，多年来首次看到了伊朗人减缓核扩张进程的证据。
The inspectors, from the International Atomic Energy Agency, said that very few new advanced centrifuges had been installed since President Hassan Rouhani of Iran took office in June, promising a new start with the West, and that little significant progress has been made on construction of a new nuclear reactor, which became a point of contention in negotiations in Geneva last week.
国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)的这些核查人员表示，自从总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)今年六月上任以来，伊朗新安装的先进离心机数量极少，这意味着该国有望跟西方翻开新的篇章，而且一个新的核反应堆在建设上缺乏明显进展。该反应堆是上周日内瓦协商过程中的一个争议焦点。
The slowdown, according to diplomats familiar with the Iranian work, was clearly political, not driven by technical glitches. But it was also easily reversible, suggesting that Iran was waiting to see what kind of relief from sanctions it could obtain from the West in the negotiations.
熟悉伊朗核事务的外交官说，这种进度的放缓显然是出于政治方面的原因，而不是技术问题。但是情况也容易反转，这表明，伊朗在等着观察，西方在谈判中能就缓解制裁给出何种好处。
The report was immediately seized on by advocates and critics of an agreement that was almost signed in Geneva.
双方上周在日内瓦只差一点就签订了协议。该报告一经发布，支持和批评协议的人立即就做出了回应。
Administration officials said Iran’s restraint was the latest in a series of signals by Mr. Rouhani that he was an agent of change, and that it was an answer to skeptics who have said the Iranian leader was all talk and no action.
政府官员说，伊朗的克制表现是鲁哈尼发出的一系列信号中最新的一个：鲁哈尼正在推动变化，针对那些怀疑伊朗领导人只说不做的怀疑论者，这就是对他们的回答。
But critics in Congress and overseas dismissed the report, saying that Iran had not removed any centrifuges and continued to enrich uranium at a steady rate. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, one of the most vocal critics of a deal, said the only reason Iran had not expanded its enrichment capability was that “they don’t need to.”
但国会和国际上的批评者认为这份报告缺乏意义，他们说伊朗没有拆除离心机，而且还在稳步开展铀浓缩活动。以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)是谈判最严厉的批评者之一，他说，伊朗之所以一直没有扩张其铀浓缩能力，唯一的原因是“他们不需要这么做”。
For Mr. Obama, who has been fending off accusations that the American negotiators were giving away too much to Iran in return for concessions that critics said would scarcely slow its march to nuclear capability, the findings could fortify his argument that the Senate should hold off on new sanctions to avoid derailing the talks.
批评者认为，为了换取伊朗的让步，美国谈判代表做出了太大的妥协，而伊朗的让步几乎不能减缓其获得核能力的步伐。奥巴马则一直在反驳这种指责，这份新报告可能会为他的建议——即参议院应暂缓制定新的制裁措施，以避免破坏会谈——提供支撑。
“Let’s test how willing they are to actually resolve this diplomatically and peacefully,” Mr. Obama said at a White House news conference. “We will have lost nothing if at the end of the day it turns out that they are not prepared to provide the international community the hard proof and assurances necessary for us to know that they’re not pursuing a nuclear weapon.”
"让我们试一试，看看他们有多大意愿，来用外交和和平的手段解决这件事。”奥巴马在白宫的一次新闻发布会上说，“如果最后发现，他们不准备向国际社会提供确凿的证据和保证，让大家相信他们不会研制核武器，我们也不会有什么损失。”
The confidential report was released to the nuclear agency’s member states just minutes before Mr. Obama spoke, and he did not mention the findings. But the president made a strong case for diplomacy, trying to quell an effort in Congress to ramp up sanctions against Iran, in return for a six-month halt in the progress of the nuclear program.
就在奥巴马发言的几分钟前，国际原子能机构将这份机密报告发送给了各成员国。奥巴马没有提到调查结果。但他在阐释相关外交行动方面显得很有说服力，试图让国会放弃进一步制裁伊朗的行动，以换取伊朗暂停核项目6个月。
Negotiators plan to meet again next week in Geneva, after failing to reach an interim deal because of what Secretary of State John Kerry has described as a difference in only four or five phrases. The prospect that a deal could be reached soon has provoked a storm of protest from Israel and criticism from Republicans and some Democrats.
谈判者计划下周在日内瓦再次会面，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，之前未能达成的那项临时协议其实只有四五处存在措辞分歧。协议可能很快达成的前景引发了来自以色列、共和党批评人士，以及一些民主党人的抗议风暴。
Nader Karimi Joni, a political analyst close to the Rouhani administration, said, “It is fair to say that Iran is showing good will, just like the European Union and the United States have done.”
熟悉鲁哈尼的政治分析人士纳德·卡里米·约尼(Nader Karimi Joni)说，“公平地说，伊朗正在表现出良好的意愿，就像欧盟和美国那样。”
Still, experts on Iran cautioned against imputing political motive to what is fundamentally a technical decision.
然而，伊朗事务专家告诫说，不要把政治动机附会到一个本质上事关技术的决定上。
“It is difficult to decipher political motivation from technological pace,” said Ray Takeyh, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Having said that, it may be a signal of some sort. Alternatively, Iran has been having difficulty with its machines so it may be trying to perfect their design and operation. Or a combination of all the above.”
“从技术行动的步调中了解政治动机是很困难的，”美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)的高级研究员雷·塔克耶(Ray Takeyh)说。“话虽如此，它也可能是某种信号。另外，伊朗在设备方面一直存在问题，所以它可能是在花时间改进设备的设计和运行状况。也许上述原因兼而有之。”
The lack of certainty about Iran’s motives lends itself to widely conflicting interpretations of the report’s findings.
由于伊朗的动机并不明朗，人们对核能机构这份报告的解读存在严重分歧。
“They’ve got enough facilities, enough centrifuges, to develop and to complete the fissile material which is at the core of an atomic bomb,” Mr. Netanyahu said on Thursday.
“他们有足够的设施和离心机来开发和制造裂变材料，而这些材料就是原子弹的关键，”内塔尼亚胡周四表示。
On Capitol Hill, aides to Republican and Democratic senators dismissed the report. “It simply confirms the concerns that senators already have: there have been no centrifuges removed,” said one. Added another, “They’re closing it down in the morning and opening it up in the afternoon.”
在国会山，共和党和民主党参议员的助手认为这份报告缺乏意义。一名助手说，“它只不过是证实了参议员们之前就在担心的事情：他们没有拆除离心机。”另一名助手说，“他们早晨关掉它，下午再打开。”
On Wednesday, Mr. Kerry and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met with Senate leaders, who are considering a new set of sanctions that aim to drive Iran’s oil exports to zero. But there was little evidence that the senators were persuaded to delay any action.
本周三，克里和副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)与参议院领导者开了会，后者正在考虑制定一套新的制裁措施，旨在把伊朗的石油出口量压低到零。但是没有什么迹象表明，他们说服了这些参议员，推迟采取任何行动。
Aides said Republicans senators were likely to attach the sanctions bill as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, which funds the military. But with Thanksgiving break looming, they said, the Senate was unlikely to vote on it before the next round of talks, which begin on Thursday.
助手们说，共和党参议员可能会把这个制裁议案作为一项修正案，附加到为军队提供资金的《国防授权法案》(National Defense Authorization Act)中。但他们表示，随着感恩节假期临近，参议院不太可能在下周四开始的下一轮会谈之前对其投票表决。