BEIJING — President Obama’s national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, met in Beijing on Friday with several Chinese leaders, including President Xi Jinping and a senior army general, to discuss a number of issues that included areas of tension between the two nations. Her meetings were in preparation for the scheduled state visit next month by the Chinese president to the United States.
北京——美国总统奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)周五访问北京，与包括中国国家主席习近平和一位军方高级将领在内的领导人会面。双方会晤讨论了一系列事务，其中包括中美存在严重分歧的领域。赖斯此行是为习近平下月访美做准备。
In an afternoon meeting at the Great Hall of the People, Mr. Xi told Ms. Rice that the two nations should push forward on negotiations on multilateral investment treaties and address controversial regional issues, according to the official China News Service. Mr. Xi was referring to issues on which the two nations have major policy differences.
据中国新闻社报道，习近平在人民大会堂会见赖斯时指出，中美双方应加快推进多边投资协定谈判，解决有争议的地区问题。在习近平所指的领域，中美存有重大的政策差异。
Ms. Rice mentioned next week’s commemoration by China of the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, centered on a military parade on Sept. 3 to be held at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, the news agency reported. Senior White House officials have declined to attend the propaganda event, as have many other Western leaders. (The United States representative is expected to be Ambassador Max Baucus.) But Ms. Rice did say to Mr. Xi that Mr. Obama wanted to thank China for contributions made by its people during the war, China News Service reported.
中新社报道还指出，赖斯在会晤中提到了中国下周为纪念第二次世界大战结束70周年举办的纪念活动，特别是9月3日在天安门广场举行的盛大阅兵。虽然与其他许多西方国家领导人一样，白宫的高级官员拒绝出席这个宣传活动（美国驻华大使博卡斯预计将作为美国代表出席。）但赖斯向习近平传达了奥巴马的致意，称他对中国人民在二战中做出的贡献表示感谢。
The general with whom Ms. Rice met was Fan Changlong, a vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, which oversees the People’s Liberation Army. The United States and China have had sharp exchanges this year over China’s efforts to create artificial islands in contested areas of the South China Sea. That is expected to be a major topic of discussion between the two presidents and their advisers when they meet.
赖斯还会见了军委副主席范长龙。围绕中国在南海造岛一事，美国与中国今年有过激烈交锋。这个问题也料将成为习近平与奥巴马会晤时的一个主要话题。
In brief public remarks during her meeting with General Fan, Ms. Rice did not mention the South China Sea and chose instead to highlight the areas of cooperation between the two nation’s military forces. She said the United States was “deeply committed to building a healthy, stable, reliable military-to-military relationship,” and pointed out that the American and Chinese militaries had worked “side by side” on efforts to thwart piracy in the Gulf of Aden in the Arabian Sea and during the Ebola crisis in West Africa.
会见范长龙的过程中，赖斯做了简短的公开讲话，没有提及南海，而是强调两国军事合作。她说，美国“致力于建立一个健康、稳定、可靠的军事关系”，并指出，美中两国军方曾“协同合作”应对亚丁湾海盗问题和西非埃博拉疫情。