CHILMARK, Mass. — President Obama announced Thursday that the United States had canceled longstanding joint military exercises with the Egyptian army set for next month, using one of his few obvious forms of leverage to rebuke Egypt’s military-backed government for its brutal crackdown on supporters of ousted president Mohamed Morsi.
马萨诸塞州奇尔马克——奥巴马总统周四宣布，美国取消了原定于下个月举行的美埃联合军演。该军事演习由来已久，取消演习是奥巴马为数不多的施加影响力的明显手段之一，他借此对埃及由军方支持的政府表示了谴责，谴责后者对被罢黜总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者的残酷镇压。
Though the decision is an embarrassment to Egypt’s generals, and will deprive Egypt of much-needed revenue, it lays bare both the Obama administration’s limited options to curb the military’s campaign against Islamists in Egypt and the United States’ role as an increasingly frustrated bystander. Repeated pleas from administration officials to the generals to change course have gone unheeded, and the United States’ first punitive measure, a Pentagon delay in the delivery of four F-16 fighter jets to the Egyptian Air Force, also had no effect.
这个决定会令埃及将领感到尴尬，并使埃及无法获得它迫切需要的资金，尽管如此，此事还是清楚地表明，奥巴马政府在制止埃及军方镇压伊斯兰主义者方面的选择有限，美国的角色也只是个越来越沮丧的旁观者。美国政府官员曾多次呼吁埃及将领改变方针，但是并未受到重视；同样没有收到成效的是美国的第一个惩罚性措施，亦即让国防部推迟向埃及空军(Egyptian Air Force)运送四架F-16战斗机。
Mr. Obama, interrupting his vacation on Martha’s Vineyard to address the violence, struck a now-familiar balance. He expressed outrage at the harrowing scenes this week in Cairo and other cities, while taking pains to preserve the American relationship with the Egyptian military, which is underwritten by $1.3 billion a year in aid to it.
奥巴马中断了在玛莎葡萄园岛的假期来回应此次暴力事件，摆出的却只是业已为人熟知的平衡姿态。他对本周出现在开罗和其他城市的悲惨场面表示愤怒，同时又极力维持美国与埃及军方的关系。美国曾承诺每年为埃及军方提供13亿美元（约合79.5亿元人民币）的援助。
With the death toll in Egypt soaring and no sign that the country’s generals are heeding American calls to stop the violence, however, administration officials said they now faced a more wrenching choice: to keep backing the generals, whatever the cost, or to admit that the current relationship is no longer tenable.
然而，鉴于埃及的死亡人数不断增加，且并无迹象表明埃及将领会把美国停止暴力行动的呼吁放在心上，美国政府官员表示，他们现在面临着一个更加痛苦的选择：要么不计代价地继续支持埃及将领，要么承认目前的关系已无法维持。
“While we want to sustain our relationship with Egypt, our traditional cooperation cannot continue as usual when civilians are being killed in the streets and rights are being rolled back,” Mr. Obama said, reading a statement in front of his rented vacation house here, the sun-splashed trees an incongruous backdrop for his stark message.
“虽然我们希望维持与埃及的关系，但是，面临平民当街被杀、权利遭到践踏的局面，我们无法照常进行传统的合作，”奥巴马在声明中说。他在租来的度假别墅前朗读声明，背景是洒满阳光的树木，与他的强硬措辞显得不甚协调。
Until the latest eruption of violence, White House officials were still uncertain whether the Egyptian military might yet rewind history and give democracy a fresh chance, or if it was simply restoring the sort of autocracy that has dominated Egypt in the past. Now they said they seem to have the answer.
直到最新一轮的暴力行动爆发之前，白宫官员仍然不能确定，埃及军方是会扭转历史，给民主一个全新的机会，还是只会恢复过去主宰埃及的那种独裁统治。如今他们表示，他们似乎有了答案。
But while their frustration is palpable, officials said there were voices both in favor of working with Egypt or of cutting off its aid, and they expected the debate would take time to play out.
然而，尽管沮丧情绪溢于言表，官员们仍然表示，目前既有支持与埃及合作的声音，也有支持美国切断援助的声音。据他们估计，这场争论不会很快结束。
White House officials said Mr. Obama issued the order to pull the United States out of the military exercises, known as Bright Star, in a phone call with his national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, on Wednesday evening. The Egyptians were notified before the president’s announcement, and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel later spoke by telephone with Egypt’s defense minister, Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi.
白宫官员称，奥巴马在周三晚上与他的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)通了话，其间发布命令，要求美国不再参与这次名为“明星”(Bright Star)的军事演习。在奥巴马发布声明前，埃及方面已经得到了通知。随后，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)还与埃及国防部长阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel-Fattah el Sisi)上将通过电话。
Despite the large scale of the exercises, and the fact that they date to the 1980s, administration officials said they had few illusions that the decision would by itself stop the crackdown. Egypt’s military leaders, they said, regard the Islamist protests as an “existential threat” to the nation, which they must crush at all costs.
尽管这项军演始于20世纪80年代，而且规模较大，政府官员仍然表示，他们并不幻想，单靠这个决定就能阻止镇压行动。他们表示，埃及的军方领导人将伊斯兰主义者的抗议活动视作对埃及的“生存威胁”，因此必须不惜一切代价加以粉碎。
Mr. Obama said he had instructed his national security staff to weigh additional measures. He did not specify what those could be, though he said nothing about suspending the military aid. “We’ll be looking at both the case-by-case examples but also the more fundamental relationship,” said a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “There’s a basic threshold where we can’t give a tacit endorsement to them.”
奥巴马表示，他已经指示国家安全方面的工作人员考虑额外的举措。他没有具体说明可能采取哪些举措，但也没有就暂停军事援助发表任何意见。“我们会同时考虑具体例子和更根本的关系，”一名高级官员表示。“基本的底线是，我们不能默许他们的做法。”事涉内部权衡，这名官员要求匿名。
Given the deep schism in Egypt, this official said, the White House was still skeptical that cutting off aid would compel the generals to return the country to a democratic transition. And it could destabilize the region, particularly the security of Israel, whose 1979 peace treaty with Egypt is predicated on the aid.
该官员表示，鉴于埃及目前深度分裂，白宫仍然怀疑，切断援助也不能迫使军方领导人让埃及重返民主过渡进程。切断援助会破坏该地区的稳定，特别是以色列的安全。埃及与以色列于1979年签订了和平条约，前提就是美国对埃及进行援助。
For weeks, officials from Israel and several Arab countries have pressured the administration to maintain the flow of aid. If it were cut off, they said, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates would move quickly to make up the shortfall — and then some.
数周以来，以色列及一些阿拉伯国家的官员给美国政府施压，要求美国政府继续援助埃及。他们表示，如果美国切断援助，沙特阿拉伯、科威特和阿拉伯联合酋长国将会迅速补上差额，而且还要提供更多援助。
Saudi Arabia and the Emirates pledged $8 billion in grants and loans to Egypt’s post-Morsi government last month: $5 billion from Saudi Arabia in grants and loans; $3 billion from the Emirates. That is more than enough, analysts say, to offset any cutoff from the United States, even if the two countries do not fulfill their entire pledges.
上个月，沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国承诺为后穆尔西时代的埃及政府提供80亿美元的援助资金和贷款：前者提供50亿美元，后者提供30亿美元。分析人士称，即便这两个国家不兑现全部承诺，这笔资金也绰绰有余，完全能够抵消美国切断的援助。
Shutting off the aid spigot now would not have an immediate impact on the Egyptian military, defense officials say, because this year’s military assistance has already been delivered  Beyond money, Arab officials worry that a rupture between Washington and the Egyptian military would further erode American influence in a country that has historically been a bellwether in the Arab world, and would open the door to rivals like Russia or China.
国防官员表示，现在切断援助不会立即对埃及军方产生影响，因为美国已经交付了今年的军事援助。除了资金之外，阿拉伯官员还担心美国与埃及军方的决裂会进一步削弱美国在埃及的影响力，给俄罗斯或中国等对手创造机会，而埃及历来是阿拉伯世界的领导者。
“If the aid gets cut, you can be sure that Putin will arrive in Cairo in two or three months,” one senior Arab official said. “And he will give aid with no strings attached.”
“如果美国切断援助，那你只管放心，普京(Putin)一定会在未来两三个月之内到访开罗，”一名阿拉伯高级官员说，“他还会提供不附带任何条件的援助。”