KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The last time a top American official visited this Southeast Asian nation was in 1998, when Vice President Al Gore publicly rebuked its leaders for suppressing freedom and embraced “reformasi,” the rallying cry of the student-led protest movement.
马来西亚吉隆坡——上次有美国高官到访这个东南亚国家还是在1998年，当时到访的美国副总统阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)公开批判马来西亚领导人压制自由，并对学生领导的抗议运动提出的“烈火莫熄”(reformasi)口号表示了支持。
On Sunday, President Obama visited Malaysia to underscore how much has changed in the last 16 years — not least in this country’s attitude toward the United States, which has evolved from deep-seated suspicion to a cautious desire for cooperation.
周日，奥巴马总统来到马来西亚，以此强调马来西亚过去16年来的巨大变化，明显的变化之一是，马来西亚对美国的态度已经从根深蒂固的怀疑变成了谨慎的合作意愿。
Citing negotiations for a trans-Pacific trade accord, a formal agreement to cooperate in halting the spread of nuclear equipment, and the international search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet, Mr. Obama said, “We’re working more closely together than ever before.”
奥巴马列举了一项跨太平洋贸易协议、一项关于合作阻止核装备扩散的正式协议，以及有多国参与的马航失踪班机搜寻工作，并且表示，“我们正在进行空前密切的合作。”
White House officials liken Malaysia to a “swing state” in Southeast Asia, falling somewhere between the freewheeling democracy of the Philippines and the rigid, one-party authoritarianism of Laos. Encouraging Malaysia’s evolution into a more open society, these officials said, could make the country a model for the rest of the region.
一些白宫官员将马来西亚比作东南亚的一个“摇摆州”，在菲律宾自由的民主制度和老挝僵化的一党专政之间摇摆不定。这些官员表示，应当鼓励马来西亚社会走向开放，此举可能会让马来西亚成为该地区其他国家的典范。
In many ways, though, Malaysia remains the same work-in-progress it was in 1998, blessed with an industrious, multiethnic population but burdened by a corrupt political system, with a Malay elite that does not hesitate to vilify its opponents with trumped-up charges.
然而，马来西亚在很多方面仍处于与1998年一样的半成品状态。该国拥有勤劳的多民族人民，但却受困于腐败的政治体系，其精英阶层绝不惮于用伪造的指控来中伤对手。
Speaking at a news conference with Prime Minister Najib Razak, Mr. Obama treaded gingerly on these issues. He said he pressed Mr. Najib during their meeting about Malaysia’s human rights record, which has come under new scrutiny in recent weeks because of the legal travails of an opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim.
在与马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)共同举行的新闻发布会上，奥巴马谨慎地提到了这些问题。他说，他曾在关于马来西亚人权记录的会晤中对纳吉布施压。最近几周，由于反对派领导人安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)遭遇的司法苦旅，马来西亚的人权状况再次受到了关注。
“The prime minister is the first to acknowledge that Malaysia has still got some work to do on these issues, just like the United States, by the way, has some work to do,” the president said.
奥巴马说，“纳吉布总理是承认马来西亚在这些问题上有待改进的第一人；顺便提一下，美国在这些方面也有待改进。”
“Prime Minister Najib came in as a reformer, and one who is committed to it,” he said, “and I am going to continue to encourage him as a friend and as a partner to make sure we’re making progress on that front.”
“纳吉布总理以改革者的姿态上台执政，而且对改革态度坚决，”他说，“我将继续以朋友和合作伙伴的身份对他进行鼓励，以确保我们能在这条战线上取得进步。”
Still, Mr. Obama declined to meet Mr. Anwar, a former deputy prime minister whose 2012 acquittal on sodomy charges was thrown out by a court last month, putting his political comeback in jeopardy. Mr. Anwar’s original conviction in 1999, which led to a six-year prison term, was widely condemned as politically motivated.
然而，奥巴马拒绝会见前副总理安瓦尔。安瓦尔曾受到鸡奸指控，后于2012年被无罪开释，但法院又于上月撤销了这个决定，使他重返政坛的计划陷入了困境。安瓦尔最初是在1999年被定罪，由此被判刑6年，人们广泛指责他的有罪判决是由政治因素驱动的。
Mr. Obama did not offer a reason, but said his decision was “not indicative of a lack of concern, given the fact that there are a lot of people I don’t meet with, and opposition leaders I don’t meet with, but that doesn’t mean I’m not concerned about them.” Mr. Anwar will instead get a meeting with the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice.
奥巴马没有说明不见安瓦尔的原因，但却表示，他这个决定“并不表示我不关心此事，因为我没会见的人很多，没会见的反对派领导人也很多，但这并不意味着我不在意他们”。安瓦尔将与美国国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)会面。
Mr. Obama, who is the first president to visit Malaysia since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966, was keen to keep the spotlight on the country’s high-tech future. He dropped in at a science center, where he was shown an electric go-cart and a wristband for diabetics that transmits a distress signal if it detects a cold sweat.
奥巴马是1966年林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)访问马来西亚后首位到访的美国总统。他急于将人们的注意力转向该国的高科技未来。他顺道参观了一处科学中心，那里的人向他展示了一辆电子微型赛车，以及一款供糖尿病患者使用的腕带，如果检测到冷汗，腕带会发出求救信号。
Later, he conducted a town-hall-style meeting with young people from around the region, in which he shared stories about his own political development and offered advice on how countries emerging from repression, like Myanmar, should deal with ethnic and religious strife.
随后，他与来自该地区各个地方的年轻人进行了一场市政厅会议式的会议。他在会上分享了自己政治生涯的发展历程，并且提出了一些建议，针对的问题则是像缅甸那样经历过压迫时代的国家应如何处理族群和宗教冲突。
As such societies open up, Mr. Obama said, conflicts inevitably bubble to the surface. He cited the legacy of ethnic strife in Malaysia, with its Muslim majority and Chinese and Indian minorities, and Myanmar, where the Rohingya minority currently faces persecution.
奥巴马说，随着此类社会走向开放，冲突会不可避免地浮出水面。他提到了马来西亚和缅甸的民族冲突留下的影响。在马来西亚，穆斯林占人口多数，华裔和印度裔属于少数群体，而在缅甸，占人口少数的罗兴亚人正在遭受迫害。
“Malaysia won’t succeed if non-Muslims don’t have opportunity,” the president said at the forum, which was interrupted briefly by protesters holding up signs opposing the trans-Pacific trade deal. “Myanmar won’t succeed if the Muslim population is repressed.”
如果非穆斯林得不到机会，马来西亚就不会成功，”奥巴马总统在前述论坛会议上说，“如果穆斯林群体遭到压迫，缅甸也不会成功。”现场曾出现一些高举标牌反对跨太平洋贸易协议的抗议者，导致会议短暂中断。
Malaysia has been tranquil for several years, in stark contrast to the tension during Mr. Gore’s visit. Mr. Najib is a far less authoritarian figure than Mahathir Mohamed, the prime minister who dominated Malaysian politics for a quarter century, often railing against the United States.
过去几年，马来西亚的局面一直很安定，与戈尔到访时的紧张局势形成了鲜明对比。纳吉布远不像马哈蒂尔·穆罕默德(Mahathir Mohamed)那么专制。马哈蒂尔·穆罕默德曾担任马来西亚总理，主导该国政坛四分之一个世纪，常常指责美国。