The morning of concluding an agreement with Iran to lift oil and financial sanctions in return for curbs on Iran’s nuclear capabilities, President Obama is a man who evinces no second thoughts whatsoever about the deal he struck. In a 45-minute interview in the Cabinet Room, the president kept stressing one argument: Don’t judge me on whether this deal transforms Iran, ends Iran’s aggressive behavior toward some of its Arab neighbors or leads to détente between Shiites and Sunnis. Judge me on one thing: Does this deal prevent Iran from breaking out with a nuclear weapon for the next 10 years and is that a better outcome for America, Israel and our Arab allies than any other alternative on the table?
在与伊朗达成协议的那天上午，奥巴马总统对自己达成的这项协议，没有表现出丝毫的怀疑。根据该协议，伊朗将以限制核能力来换取减轻其石油和金融领域所受到的制裁。在白宫内阁会议室(Cabinet Room)长达45分钟的采访中，奥巴马一再强调以下观点：别用这项协议能否改变伊朗、能否结束伊朗对一些阿拉伯邻国的侵犯，或者能否促使什叶派和逊尼派关系缓和来评判我。请用这件事来评判我：这项协议是否会阻止伊朗在未来10年内研制出核武器？对于美国、以色列和我们的阿拉伯盟友而言，这个结果是否比谈判桌上的其他任何选项都更好？
The president made clear to me that he did not agree with my assessment in a column two weeks ago that we had not used all the leverage in our arsenal, or alliances, to prevent Iran from becoming a threshold nuclear power, by acquiring a complete independent enrichment infrastructure that has the potential to undermine the global nuclear nonproliferation regime. Personally, I want more time to study the deal, hear from the nonpartisan experts, listen to what the Iranian leaders tell their own people and hear what credible alternative strategies the critics have to offer. But the president certainly argued his case with a conviction and internal logic with which his critics and Congress will have to seriously contend.
奥巴马总统曾向我阐明，他并不同意我在两周前的一篇专栏文章里的判断：我们并未完全运用我们或盟友的所有影响力，来阻止伊朗取得独立且完整的浓缩设施，进而成为一个“核门槛”国家——这可能会对世界核不扩散机制造成不利。就个人而言，我希望能用更多时间来研究这项协议，听听无党派专家的意见，看看伊朗领导人对自己的人民说了什么，再听听批评人士有没有别的令人信服的策略。但是奥巴马总统阐述论点时，显然十分坚定，也有内在的逻辑，他的批评者和国会肯定需要认真地辩驳。
“We are not measuring this deal by whether it is changing the regime inside of Iran,” said the president. “We’re not measuring this deal by whether we are solving every problem that can be traced back to Iran, whether we are eliminating all their nefarious activities around the globe. We are measuring this deal — and that was the original premise of this conversation, including by Prime Minister Netanyahu — Iran could not get a nuclear weapon. That was always the discussion. And what I’m going to be able to say, and I think we will be able to prove, is that this by a wide margin is the most definitive path by which Iran will not get a nuclear weapon, and we will be able to achieve that with the full cooperation of the world community and without having to engage in another war in the Middle East.”
“我们不会用能否改变伊朗内部的政权来衡量这个协议，”奥巴马说。“也不会用能否解决以伊朗为源头的每个问题，能否消除他们在世界各地的所有恶毒行径来衡量它。我们衡量它的标准是：伊朗无法获得核武器——这是此次对话最初的前提，也是内塔尼亚胡总理的判断标准。这一直是讨论的议题。我可以说，我想未来也可以证明的是，要避免伊朗取得核武器，这是最最明确的一条道路。我们将在国际社会的全面合作下达到这个目的，同时又不用在中东参与另一场战争。”
To sell this deal to a skeptical Congress, President Obama clearly has to keep his argument tight. But I suspect his legacy on this issue will ultimately be determined by whether the deal does, in the long run, help transform Iran, defuse the U.S.-Iran Cold War and curtail the spread of nuclear weapons in the Middle East — not foster their proliferation. That, though, will be a long time in determining. For the near term, the deal’s merit will be judged on whether Iran implements the rollback of its nuclear enrichment capabilities to which it has agreed and whether the deeply intrusive international inspection system it has accepted can detect — and thereby deter — any cheating.
为了向疑心重重的国会兜售这项协议，奥巴马总统显然必须坚守自己的论点。但是，我怀疑他在这个议题上的政治遗产，最终取决于这个协议是否有助于——从长期来看——改变伊朗、缓和美伊冷战，以及遏制核武器在中东的传播，并且不助长它们的扩散。但这需要很长一段时间才能确定。近期内，可以通过以下两个方面来评判该协议的价值：伊朗是否会采取举措，将铀浓缩能力缩减到他们承诺的水平，伊朗接受的国际核查体系——这个体系深度介入伊朗——能否发现并遏制任何舞弊行为。