KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A sprawling new plant here in a former soybean field makes the mechanical guts of America’s atomic warheads. Bigger than the Pentagon, full of futuristic gear and thousands of workers, the plant, dedicated last month, modernizes the aging weapons that the United States can fire from missiles, bombers and submarines.
密苏里州堪萨斯城——在这里的一片曾是大豆田的地方，坐落着一家生产美国核弹头机械部件的巨型新工厂。该工厂于上月落成，体量比五角大楼还大，里边尽是尖端设备，还容纳着数千名工人，工厂的任务对这些老旧的弹头进行更新，用来装备美国的导弹、轰炸机以及潜水艇。
It is part of a nationwide wave of atomic revitalization that includes plans for a new generation of weapon carriers. A recent federal study put the collective price tag, over the next three decades, at up to a trillion dollars.
这个工厂只是席卷全美的核武器复兴浪潮的一部分——其中还包括与新一代核武器运送载具有关的计划。联邦政府最近公布的一份研究报告显示，在未来30年里，核武器更新计划的总支出最高可达1万亿美元。
This expansion comes under a president who campaigned for “a nuclear-free world” and made disarmament a main goal of American defense policy. The original idea was that modest rebuilding of the nation’s crumbling nuclear complex would speed arms refurbishment, raising confidence in the arsenal’s reliability and paving the way for new treaties that would significantly cut the number of warheads.
这轮核扩张是在一个倡导走向“无核世界”、并把裁军作为国防政策主要目标的总统领导下进行的。其本意是：对美国陈旧的核设施进行适度重建，将加快核武器的更新进程，从而增强人们对核武库可靠性的信心，并为履行有关大幅削减核弹头数量的新条约铺平道路。
Instead, because of political deals and geopolitical crises, the Obama administration is engaging in extensive atomic rebuilding while getting only modest arms reductions in return.
然而，由于政治交易以及地缘政治危机的存在，奥巴马政府只是致力于大规模的核设施改造，在武器削减方面所取得的成效却十分有限。
Supporters of arms control, as well as some of President Obama’s closest advisers, say their hopes for the president’s vision have turned to baffled disappointment as the modernization of nuclear capabilities has become an end unto itself.
军备控制支持者以及一些跟奥马巴总统关系最密切的顾问表示，随着核力量更新本身被当成终极目标，他们对总统的愿景所报的希望已经变成了失望。
“A lot of it is hard to explain,” said Sam Nunn, the former senator whose writings on nuclear disarmament deeply influenced Mr. Obama. “The president’s vision was a significant change in direction. But the process has preserved the status quo.”
“其中的很多事情很难解释清楚，”前参议员萨姆·纳恩(Sam Nunn)说，“总统的愿景出现了重大的方向性转变。但核裁军进程已经停滞不前。”纳恩在核裁军方面的著作曾对奥巴马产生过深远的影响。
With Russia on the warpath, China pressing its own territorial claims and Pakistan expanding its arsenal, the overall chances for Mr. Obama’s legacy of disarmament look increasingly dim, analysts say. Congress has expressed less interest in atomic reductions than looking tough in Washington’s escalating confrontation with Moscow.
鉴于俄罗斯正在备战，中国正坚决维护其领土主张，巴基斯坦正扩充其核武库，分析人士称，奥巴马在核裁军方面留下政治遗产的总体机会越来越渺茫。与核武器裁减问题相比，美国国会更关注如何在华盛顿和莫斯科不断升级的对峙之中表现得更为强硬。
“The most fundamental game changer is Putin’s invasion of Ukraine,” said Gary Samore, Mr. Obama’s top nuclear adviser in his first term and now a scholar at Harvard. “That has made any measure to reduce the stockpile unilaterally politically impossible.”
“改变局势的一个根本因素是普京入侵乌克兰，”曾在奥巴马的第一个任期内担任其首席核事务顾问的加里·萨莫尔(Gary Samore)说，“它让任何单方面裁减核武器的举措在政治上都行不通了。”
That suits hawks just fine. They see the investments as putting the United States in a stronger position if a new arms race breaks out. In fact, the renovated plants that Mr. Obama has approved for a smaller force of more precise, reliable weapons could, under a different president, let the arsenal expand rapidly.
这正中鹰派的下怀。他们认为，如果爆发新一轮军备竞赛，在核武器更新方面的投资将让美国处于更有利的位置。事实上，奥马巴总统批准改造这些工厂，是为了以更小的规模生产精度更高、更为可靠的核武器。如果换做其他人主持大局，完全有可能利用它们迅速扩充美国的核武库。
Arms controllers say the White House has made some progress toward Mr. Obama’s broader agenda. Mr. Nunn credits the president with improving nuclear security around the globe, persuading other leaders to sweep up loose nuclear materials that terrorists could seize.
主张进行军备控制的人士称，白宫方面已就奥巴马提出的更为广泛议程取得了一些进展。纳恩认为在提高全球核安全水平方面，总统功不可没，是他在说服其他领导人清除有可能被恐怖分子拿到的零散核材料。
In the end, however, budget realities may do more than nuclear philosophies to curb the atomic upgrades. “There isn’t enough money,” said Jeffrey Lewis, of the Monterey Institute of International Studies, an expert on the modernization effort. “You’re going to get a train wreck.”
不过，到头来，对核武器升级进程起到更大遏制作用的可能会是预算上的现实，而非有关核问题的哲理。“钱不够，”蒙特雷国际研究院(Monterey Institute of International Studies)研究核武器更新问题的专家杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)说，“到时候情况会一团糟。”
While the Kansas City plant is considered a success — it opened ahead of schedule and under budget — other planned renovations are mired in delays and cost overruns. Even so, Congress can fight hard for projects that represent big-ticket items in important districts.
堪萨斯城的那座工厂被认为是成功的范例——提前完工，且没有超出预算——但计划中的其他改造项目却面临着工期拖延和费用超支的问题。虽然如此，国会还是会奋力争取重点地区的一些所费颇糜的项目。
Skeptics say that the arsenal is already dependable and that the costly overhauls are aimed less at arms control than at seeking votes and attracting top talent, people who might otherwise gravitate to other fields.
持怀疑态度的人表示，核武库已经足够可靠，成本高昂的翻修工作更多的是为了拉选票，吸引那些可能会进入其他领域的顶尖人才，而不是进行军备控制。
But the Obama administration insists that the improvements to the nuclear arsenal are vital to making it smaller, more flexible and better able to fulfill Mr. Obama’s original vision.
但奥巴马政府坚称，修缮核武器库十分重要，能够更简单、更灵活、更好地实现奥巴马最初的理想。
Daniel B. Poneman, the departing deputy secretary of energy, whose department runs the complex, said, “The whole design of the modernization enables us to make reductions.”
即将离任的能源部副部长丹尼尔·B·波内曼(Daniel B. Poneman)表示，“更新计划的整体设计使我们能够削减武器。”能源部负责维护设施的运转。
A Farewell to Arms
永别了，武器
In the fall of 2008, as Barack Obama campaigned for the presidency, a coalition of peace groups sued to halt work on a replacement bomb plant in Kansas City. They cited the prospect of a new administration that might, as one litigant put it, kill the project in “a few months.”
2008年秋天，奥巴马竞选总统时，一个和平团体联盟提起诉讼，要求停止在堪萨斯城建造一家用于替代旧厂的炸弹工厂。他们说新一届政府很快会上台，正如一位原告所说的那样，可能“过不了几个月”就会终止这个项目。
The Kansas City plant, an initiative of the Bush years, seemed like a good target, since Mr. Obama had declared his support for nuclear disarmament.
堪萨斯城的这家工厂，是在布什执政期间批准兴建的，既然奥巴马声称自己支持核裁军，它似乎是一个很好的削减对象。
The $700 million weapons plant survived. But in April 2009, the new president and his Russian counterpart, Dmitri A. Medvedev, vowed to rapidly complete an arms treaty called New Start, and committed their nations “to achieving a nuclear-free world.”
这家7亿美元规模的兵工厂并未流产。但在2009年4月，奥巴马和当时的俄罗斯总统德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)立誓要迅速完成称为“新起点”(New Start)的武器条约，并承诺俄美要“实现一个无核世界”。
The accord with Moscow was hammered out quickly. The countries agreed to cut strategic arms by roughly 30 percent — from 2,200 to 1,550 deployed weapons apiece — over seven years. It was a modest step. The Russian arsenal was already declining, and today has dropped below the agreed number, military experts say.
与莫斯科的这项协议很快就敲定了。两国一致同意在七年时间中，削减大约30%的战略武器——已经部署的武器从2200减少到1550件。这一步迈得其实并不大。军事专家说，俄罗斯如今的核武库已经削减到了约定数量以下。
Even so, to win Senate approval of the treaty, Mr. Obama struck a deal with Republicans in 2010 that would set the country’s nuclear agenda for decades to come.
即便如此，为了让条约在参议院能通过，奥巴马在2010年与共和党达成协议，将制定美国未来几十年的核议程。
Republicans objected to the treaty unless the president agreed to an aggressive rehabilitation of American nuclear forces and manufacturing sites. Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, led the opposition. He likened the bomb complex to a rundown garage — a description some in the administration considered accurate.
共和党人反对这项条约，除非总统同意大力修复美国的核力量和生产基地。亚利桑那州共和党参议员乔恩·凯尔(Jon Kyl)是反对者的领袖。他把美国的核弹设施比喻成一个破旧的车库——这一点奥巴马政府的一些人认为是准确的。
Under fire, the administration promised to add $14 billion over a decade for atomic renovations. Then Senator Kyl refused to conclude a deal.
在压力之下，政府承诺在十年中增拨140亿美元，用于核设施的翻新。凯尔拒绝达成交易。
Facing the possible defeat of his first major treaty, Mr. Obama and the floor manager for the effort, Senator John Kerry, now the secretary of state, set up a war room and made deals to widen Republican support. In late December, the five-week campaign paid off, although the 71-to-26 vote represented the smallest margin ever for the ratification of a nuclear pact between Washington and Moscow.
眼见自己的第一个重大条约可能会失败，奥巴马和此事的具体负责人约翰·克里(John Kerry)参议员，即现在国务卿，成立了一个战情室，并达成了一些交易，以便从共和党那里的争取多一些支持。12月下旬，持续五周的工作获得了回报，参议院以71票赞成、26票反对的结果通过了这项协议，虽然对于华盛顿和莫斯科之间的核协议来说，这是历次投票中差额最小的一次。
The Democrats were unanimous in favor, their ranks including six senators with atomic plants in their states. Among the Republicans joining the Democrats were Bob Corker and Lamar Alexander, both of Tennessee and both strong backers of modernization. (“We’re glad to have the thousands of jobs,” Mr. Alexander said recently in announcing financing for a new plant.)
民主党人一致赞同签订该协议，其中6名参议员所属的州都建有核设施。在投赞成票的共和党人中，鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)和拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)都来自田纳西州，都坚定地支持现代化建设。（“我们很高兴获得了数千个就业机会，”亚历山大近日在宣布一家新工厂获得投资时说。）
In open and classified reports to Congress, Mr. Obama laid out his atomic refurbishment plans, which the Congressional Budget Office now estimates will cost $355 billion dollars over the next decade. But that is just the start. The price tag will soar after 10 years as missiles, bombers and submarines made in the last century reach the end of their useful lives and replacements are built.
在向国会提交的一些公开报告和秘密报告中，奥巴马叙述了他的核翻新计划；根据美国国会预算办公室目前的估计，该计划将在未来十年内耗资3550亿美元。但这仅仅是个开始。十年之后，费用将出现飙升，因为上个世纪制造的导弹、轰炸机和潜艇那时会达到使用年限，需要建造新的设备来替代它们。
“That’s where all the big money is,” Ashton B. Carter, the former deputy secretary of defense, said last year. “By comparison, everything that we’re doing now is cheap.”
“那才是花大钱的时候，”美国前国防部副部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)去年说。“比起来我们现在做的各种事情还算便宜的。”
A Wave of Modernization
现代化的浪潮
The money is flowing into a sprawling complex for making warheads that includes eight major plants and laboratories employing more than 40,000 people. Its oldest elements, some dating to 1943, have long struggled with fires, explosions and workplace injuries. This March, a concrete roof collapsed in Tennessee. More recently, chunks of ceiling clattered down a stairwell there, and employees were told to wear hard hats.
这些资金注入了一系列制造核弹头的庞大设施，其中八大工厂和实验室雇佣的员工人数超过4万人。最陈旧的一些设施长期遭受火灾、爆炸和工伤的困扰，其中部分兴建于1943年。今年3月，田纳西州一处设施的混凝土屋顶坍塌。之后，又有几块天花板落在了那里的一个楼梯井里，于是厂里让员工戴上安全帽。
“It’s deplorable,” Representative Chuck Fleischmann, Republican of Tennessee, said at an April hearing. Equipment, he added, “breaks down on a daily basis.”
“情况很是凄惨，”田纳西州共和党众议员查克·弗莱舍曼(Chuck Fleischmann)在今年4月的一个听证会上说。他还表示，“每天”都有设备坏掉。
In some ways, the challenge is similar to what Detroit’s auto industry faces: Does it make sense to pour money into old structures or build new ones that are more secure, are fully computerized and adhere to modern environmental standards?
从某些方面而言，这种情况和底特律汽车业面临的挑战很相似：把钱花在改造旧设施上有意义吗，还是直接兴建更安全的、完全电脑化的、符合现代环境标准的新设施？
And if the government chooses the latter course, how does it justify that investment if the president’s avowed policy is to wean the world off nuclear arms?
既然总统公开宣称的政策是消除这个世界的核武器，如果政府选择后一种方式，它该如何为这项投资辩解呢？
The old bomb plant in Kansas City embodies the dilemma. It was built in World War II to produce aircraft engines and went nuclear in 1949, making the mechanical and electrical parts for warheads.
堪萨斯城的旧核弹厂突显了这个难题。该工厂创建于二战时期，用于制造飞机发动机，在1949年成为核弹工厂，制造弹头的机械及电气部件。
But a river flooded it repeatedly, and in the past year it was gradually shut down. Today, visitors see tacky furniture, old machinery and floors caked with mud.
但该工厂多次遭受洪水侵袭，在过去一年中逐步关门。如今，访客们看到的是破烂的家具、老旧的机器，以及满是泥块的地面。
Its replacement, eight miles south, sits on higher ground. Its five buildings hold 2,700 employees — just like the old plant — but officials say it uses half the energy, saving about $150 million annually. Everything is bright and modern, from the sleek lobby and cafeteria to the fitness center. Clean rooms for delicate manufacturing have tighter dust standards than hospital operating rooms.
新工厂位于老工厂以南八英里（约合13公里）处，那里地势较高。五座建筑可以容纳2700名员工——像旧工厂一样，但官员们表示，该厂耗能只有原来的一半，每年可以节省大约1.5亿美元。从精致的大厅和食堂到健身中心，一切都明亮、现代。用于精密生产的洁净室的灰尘标准比医院手术室的标准还要严格。
If the Kansas City plant is the crown jewel of the modernization effort, other projects are reminders of how many billions have yet to be spent, and how even facilities completed successfully can go awry.
如果说堪萨斯城的工厂是现代化举措中的明星项目，其他项目则提醒大家，政府还有多少亿美元没有投入使用，而且那些成功完工的设施也会运转不良。
At Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, birthplace of the atomic bomb, plans for a new complex to shape plutonium fuel emerged a decade ago with a $660 million price tag. But antinuclear groups kept publicizing embarrassing details, like the discovery of a geologic fault under the site. The estimated cost soared to $5.8 billion, and in 2012, the Obama administration suspended the project.
位于原子弹诞生地新墨西哥州的洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室(Los Alamos National Laboratory)从十年前就开始制定建造新设施的计划，准备投资6.6亿美元来处理钚燃料。但反核组织不断公布一些令人难堪的细节，比如在地下发现了断层。造价估值也飙升至58亿美元，奥巴马政府在2012年暂停了这一项目。
“In the current fiscal crisis,” Charles F. McMillan, the director of Los Alamos, told a nuclear conference last year, building large facilities “may no longer be practical.”
“由于目前面临财政危机，”洛斯阿拉莫斯实验室负责人查尔斯·F·麦克米伦(Charles F. McMillan)去年参加核会议时表示，建造大型设施“可能不再现实”。
Robert Alvarez, a policy adviser to the energy secretary during the Clinton administration, recently wrote in The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that Oak Ridge was the “poster child” of a dysfunctional nuclear complex.
克林顿政府能源部长的政策顾问罗伯特·阿尔瓦雷斯(Robert Alvarez)最近在《原子科学家公报》(Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists)发表文章称，橡树岭是运转不良的核设施的“典范”。
Across the nation, 21 major upgrades have been approved and 36 more proposed, according to the Government Accountability Office. In nearly two dozen reports over five years, the congressional investigators have described the modernization push as poorly managed and financially unaccountable.
根据政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)提供的信息，全国共有21个重要升级项目获得通过，还有36个项目等待审议。在过去五年的20多份报告中，国会调查员称，推进现代化的项目管理不佳，财务状况混乱。
They recently warned — in typically understated language — that the managers of the atomic complex had repeatedly omitted and underestimated billions of dollars in costs, leaving the plan with “less funding than will be needed.”
他们最近以其一贯轻描淡写的语言警告称，核设施的管理人员多次忽略、低估了数十亿美元的成本，致使该计划获得的“资金少于所需数额”。
The Military Deployments
军事部署
The Obama administration says it sees no contradiction between rebuilding the nation’s atomic complex and the president’s vow to make the world less dependent on nuclear arms.
奥巴马政府表示，他们认为翻新核设施的举措与总统希望减少世界对核武器的依赖的誓言不存在矛盾。
“While we still have weapons, the most important thing is to make sure they are safe, secure and reliable,” said Mr. Poneman, the deputy energy secretary. The improvements, he said, have reassured allies. “It’s important to our extended deterrent,” he said, referring to the American nuclear umbrella over nations in Asia and the Middle East, which has instilled a sense of military security and kept many from building their own arsenals.
能源部副部长波内曼说，“虽然我们仍旧拥有武器，最重要的事情是确保这些武器无害、安全、可靠。”他表示，改善举措让盟友感到安心。他说，“这对覆盖范围扩大了的威慑力量非常重要。”他指的是美国为亚洲及中东国家提供核保护伞的计划，这为那些国家带来了军事安全感，从而让它们不去建设自己的核武库。
The administration has told the Pentagon to plan for 12 new missile submarines, up to 100 new bombers and 400 land-based missiles, either new or refurbished. Manufacturing costs for these forces, if approved, will peak between 2024 and 2029, according to a recent study by Dr. Lewis and colleagues at the Monterey Institute.
政府已经告诉五角大楼要制造12艘全新的导弹潜艇，最多达100架全新轰炸机和400枚全新或翻新的路基导弹。根据刘易斯和他在蒙特雷研究院的同事最近的一项研究，如果这个计划得到核准，这些武器的制造成本将在2024到2029年间达到峰值。
It estimated the total cost of the nuclear enterprise over the next three decades at roughly $900 billion to $1.1 trillion. Policy makers, the report said, “are only now beginning to appreciate the full scope of these procurement costs.”
该研究预计，核计划在未来三十年的总成本大约在9000亿到11000亿美元之间。报告称，政策制定者“到现在才开始意识到，这项军购的成本何其巨大”。
In August, the White House announced it was reviewing the atomic spending plans in preparation for next year’s budget request to Congress, which will set federal spending for 2016.
白宫在8月宣布自己正在审核该计划的支出方案，以备明年国会预算审核之需，届时国会将决定2016年的联邦预算支出。
“This is Obama’s legacy budget,” said a senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the topic’s political delicacy. “It’s his last chance to make the hard choices and prioritize.”
“这是奥巴马的政治遗产预算，”一位政府高级官员说。“这是他做出艰难选择、安排事务轻重缓急的最后机会。”由于该问题的敏感度，这位官员要求匿名置评。