WASHINGTON — When President Obama brings together the estranged leaders of Japan and South Korea for a peacemaking session in The Hague on Tuesday evening, it will be the culmination of three months of intense behind-the-scenes American diplomacy.
华盛顿——周二夜间，当存在分歧的日本和韩国领导人在奥巴马总统的撮合下在海牙进行和解会谈时，为期三个月的紧张的幕后美国外交努力也将功成圆满。
The unusual effort included a phone call from Mr. Obama to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan; a follow-up lunch that the American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, had with Mr. Abe; a decision to put both Tokyo and Seoul on Mr. Obama’s itinerary when he visits Asia next month; and a plan to resolve this neighborhood quarrel on the ultimate neutral ground: a stately Dutch city accustomed to litigating international disputes.
这一系列不同寻常的举措包括：奥巴马总统致电日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)；随后美国驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)与安倍晋三共进午餐；把东京和首尔都放进奥巴马下个月亚洲访问的行程，予以安排；以及在一个最中立的地方——一个通常用来裁定国际争端的庄严荷兰城市——来解决这场邻国之间的争端。
“The diplomacy of northeast Asia is a little like junior prom: Cathy won’t sit with Jamie, but maybe she would if Sally comes over and sits with them,” said Michael J. Green, a senior adviser on Asia in the George W. Bush administration. “The U.S. can never solve these problems, but we can be quite effective in managing them.”
“东北亚的外交有点像高中的低年级舞会：凯西不想和杰米一起坐，但是如果萨莉过来和他们一起坐，她说不定就会同意，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush administration)的亚洲问题高级顾问迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。“美国永远无法解决这些问题，但是我们可以相当有效地处理这些问题。”
In this case, Mr. Abe and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea have barely been on speaking terms since coming to power just over a year ago. Their antagonism is complex and deeply personal, rooted in World War II history as well as their own conservative and nationalist political leanings, which make old animosities even harder to overcome.
在这个问题中，自从安倍晋三和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)于一年多前上台执政以来，他们几乎已经到了不愿与彼此交谈的地步。他们之间的对抗复杂而又非常个人化，既植根于二战历史，又与他们自己保守且具有民族主义色彩的政治倾向有关，正是由于这些因素，长期的积怨便更加难以化解。
The feud has been a growing source of anxiety for the White House, not the least because of worries that China could use the ill will to drive a wedge between America’s two key allies in Asia. That would give China a freer hand in the East China Sea. Divided, Japan and South Korea are also less effective in pressuring North Korea over its nuclear program.
目前，这场争执越来越让白宫感到头疼，特别是他们担心中国可能会利用这种敌意，在美国的两个关键亚洲盟友之间挑拨离间。这会使中国在东海获得更大的自由。如果存在分歧，日本与韩国在核问题上对朝鲜施压时也难以提高效率。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. attempted to repair the breach in a visit to Japan and South Korea in December, urging both Mr. Abe and Ms. Park to avoid actions and statements that would inflame the tensions.
12月，美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在访问日本和韩国期间也曾试图解决两国的争端；当时，他呼吁安倍晋三和朴槿惠不要做出任何可能引起紧张的举动，也不要发出会产生类似影响的声明。
But Mr. Abe ignored Mr. Biden’s suggestion not to visit the Yasukuni Shrine, a memorial to the Japanese war dead that has become a loaded symbol to Koreans and Chinese because it also honors people who are war criminals. Mr. Abe’s visit, on the first anniversary of his government, Dec. 26, plunged relations with Seoul into an even deeper freeze.
然而，安倍晋三不顾拜登劝告，仍坚持对靖国神社进行参拜。靖国神社是供奉日本战争亡灵的地方，由于这里也供奉着战犯，所以在韩国和中国人眼中具有沉重的意义。12月26日，安倍晋三在其政府的第一个周年的纪念日参拜了靖国神社，促使日韩关系进一步深度恶化。
Convinced the two were not going to mend relations on their own, the White House proposed a “trilateral” meeting with Mr. Obama at the nuclear security summit in the Netherlands. The European locale and nonproliferation theme made sense. “It’s a multilateral meeting not in Asia,” said a senior administration official, “and a multilateral meeting about the one thing Japan and South Korea are in agreement on.”
因为坚信这两个国家不会主动修复关系，所以白宫提出要在荷兰的核安全峰会上，与奥巴马总统一同举行一个“三边”会谈。欧洲这个会谈场所和防止核扩散的主题都很合适。“这是一个多边会议，会议的地点不在亚洲，”一名高级政府官员说，“这次多边会议的主题，也是日韩两国持有一致立场的唯一问题。”
Mr. Obama’s participation was critical: In a call on March 6, the president told Mr. Abe he wanted to bring his two allies together. At a lunch that day, Ambassador Kennedy fleshed out the idea. Mr. Abe was receptive, American officials said, but the problem was a penchant in Japan — if not by Mr. Abe, then by those close to him — to reopen Korean wounds with nationalistic statements.
奥巴马的参与是至关重要的：3月6日致电安倍时，他就说自己想将两个盟友撮合到一起。在那天的一次午餐上，肯尼迪给这个想法填入了一些具体内容。美国官员说，安倍愿意接受建议，但是在日本，用民族主义的言论去戳韩国人的伤痛是一个嗜好——即便安倍不这样，那些他身边的人也免不了这么做。
Mr. Abe could regain Ms. Park’s trust, she told Mr. Biden, only if he took “sincere measures” to alter the perception that Japan wanted to glorify its wartime history, not repent for it. Diplomats from the two countries began working out ways to build mutual trust; the United States offered encouragement but left the mechanics to them.
肯尼迪对拜登说，对于日本给人留下的这种试图去赞美战争历史，而不是去忏悔它的印象，如果安倍能够“真心实意地采取措施”去改变，那么还是能够重新赢得朴槿惠的信任的。两国的外交官都已经开始着手重建互信的工作；美国会给予鼓励，但把具体的操作留给它们自己。
Perhaps South Korea’s deepest grievance is the issue of “comfort women,” thousands of girls and woman who were abducted or lured by the Japanese to work in prostitution camps during World War II. Japan issued a formal apology for the abuses, known as the Kono Statement, in 1993. But with nationalism on the rise, a top adviser to Mr. Abe said Japan planned to review the statement, fanning new outrage in Seoul.
最令韩国忿忿不平的恐怕是“慰安妇”问题，在二战期间，成千上万的女性被日本人绑架或引诱到军妓营工作。日本在1993年曾发表一份被称为河野谈话(Kono Statement)的正式声明，就这一虐待行径致歉。但随着日本民族主义的抬头，安倍的一名高级顾问说日本打算重新审视这一声明，从而再一次点燃首尔的怒火。
Earlier this month, Mr. Abe tried to settle the issue, telling the Japanese Parliament that his government would not alter or retract the Kono Statement. Mr. Abe also pledged to curb provocative statements by those close to him, though on Sunday an aide again raised doubts about the 1993 apology, showing the challenge that Mr. Abe faces.
本月早些时候，安倍试图解决这一问题，他对日本国会说，他的政府不打算改变或收回河野谈话。安倍还承诺会对身边的人加以管束，让他们不要发表挑衅言论，不过一名助手还是在周日对1993年的道歉表达了质疑，表明了安倍所面临的挑战。
The White House had one more hurdle to jump: Mr. Obama was planning a trip to Asia in April to make up for one he canceled in October because of the government shutdown. The administration added Japan to the original itinerary of Malaysia and the Philippines.
白宫还有一道障碍需要跨越：奥巴马计划在四月访问亚洲，以弥补去年十月因政府停摆而取消的安排。政府在原本前往马拉西亚和菲律宾的行程中加入了日本这一站。
That alarmed Koreans and their advocates in Washington. In an op-ed in the Washington Post, Mr. Green and his Bush administration colleagues Victor Cha and Richard Armitage said that “visiting key treaty allies Tokyo and Manila, while skipping another key ally, South Korea, on Obama’s first trip to Asia of his second term would be an embarrassment” for Ms. Park.
这让韩国及其华盛顿支持者大为警觉。在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的一篇观点文章中，格林和他在布什政府的同僚车维德(Victor Cha)和理查德·阿米蒂奇(Richard Armitage)说，“访问东京和马尼拉的重要盟友，却跳过了另一个重要盟友韩国，奥巴马第二任期内的首次亚洲之行，”将令朴槿惠感到难堪。