President Obama on Wednesday signed an executive order aimed at retaliating against foreign-based online attacks on the United States as the government scrambles to catch up to national security threats that are evolving in a world of fast-changing technology.
奥巴马总统周三签署了一项行政命令，旨在对境外发起的针对美国的网络攻击实施报复。在科技飞速变化的形势下，奥巴马政府正匆忙地应对不断升级的网络威胁。
The order authorizes financial and travel sanctions against anyone involved in attacks originating or directed from outside the country that pose “a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy or economic health or financial stability of the United States.” No targets for these measures were named.
这项政令授权的内容是，凡参与由境外实施或授意，且对“美国的国家安全、外交政策、经济状况或金融稳定造成重大威胁”的网络攻击者，将采取金融和旅行方面的制裁。政令中没有说明措施针对的具体目标。
Months ago, Mr. Obama blamed North Korea for the hacking of Sony Pictures Entertainment as it was about to release “The Interview,” a comedy featuring a mocking portrayal of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader. Mr. Obama used existing authority to impose economic sanctions on North Korean officials and a North Korean intelligence agency, but the new order will expand his options.
数月以前，奥巴马指责朝鲜在索尼影业(Sony Pictures Entertainment)发行电影《采访》(Interview)之前，对该公司实施了黑客攻击。《采访》是一部以讽刺朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)为特色的喜剧。奥巴马已经利用现有授权对朝鲜的官员和一个情报机构实施了经济制裁，而这项新的政令将让他拥有更多选择。
“Cyberthreats pose one of the most serious economic and national security challenges to the United States, and my administration is pursuing a comprehensive strategy to confront them,” Mr. Obama said in a statement. “As we have seen in recent months, these threats can emanate from a range of sources and target our critical infrastructure, our companies and our citizens.”
“网络威胁是美国所面临的最严重的经济和国家安全挑战之一，我的政府正寻求用一种全面的战略来应对它们，”奥巴马在一份声明中说。“正如我们最近几个月所看到的，这些威胁可能有广泛的来源，并且针对我们重要的基础设施、企业和国民。”
Among actions that could draw retaliation under the order would be attacks that target vital resources like power grids; steal money, trade secrets or personal information; or disrupt large computer networks. The government could penalize those responsible by freezing assets in the United States, barring Americans from doing business with them and blocking them from entering the country. They would be cut off from American goods and technology.
根据这一政令，可能受到制裁的行为包括，针对电网等重要资源的网络攻击；窃取资金、商业秘密或个人信息；干扰大型计算机网络的行为。政府惩罚责任人的办法包括，在美国冻结其资产，禁止美国人与他们有生意往来，以及禁止他们入境。这些人将无法获得美国的商品和技术。
The sanctions in the Sony case were based on existing authority specifically targeting North Korea, but the new order has no geographic limits, mirroring the approach to counterterrorism, counternarcotics and transnational criminal organizations. “This allows us to target the activity itself wherever it arises,” said John E. Smith, acting director of the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which enforces sanctions.
索尼的例子中所采取的制裁措施根据的是现有的专门针对朝鲜的授权，但新的政令没有地理限制，这与反恐、缉毒和打击跨国犯罪组织的措施相似。“这样一来，无论攻击来自哪里，我们都可以针对行为本身，”负责实施制裁的美国财政部海外资产控制办公室(Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department)的代理主任约翰·E·史密斯(John E. Smith)说。
Identifying perpetrators may be a particular challenge. In contrast to states like North Korea or Russia that are sanctioned for traditional violations of international norms, hackers dwell in a murky digital world cloaked in ways that make them difficult to catch. In attacks on JPMorgan Chase, Target and Home Depot, for instance, it has been hard to identify the culprits.
寻找罪魁祸首可能会格外困难。朝鲜或俄罗斯等国受到制裁是因为一些传统上违反国际惯例的做法，相比之下，黑客们存在于一个模糊不清的网络世界，很难被抓到。摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)、塔吉特百货(Target)和家得宝(Home Depot)遭受网络攻击的例子中，罪魁祸首都难以找寻。
The administration tried to reassure the technology world that the new powers would be used judiciously. “We will not, certainly, be using this to target free speech or interfering with the free and open Internet, and we’re not going to be going after the innocent victims of people whose computers were taken over and used by malicious actors,” said Michael Daniel, the president’s online security coordinator.
奥巴马政府试图让科技行业放心，自己会审慎地使用这些新的权力。“当然了，我们不会用它来针对言论自由或干预自由和公开的互联网，我们不会打扰那些电脑被恶意角色占据和利用的无辜受害者，”总统的网络安全协调员迈克尔·丹尼尔(Michael Daniel)说。
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said the order would send a message to hackers. “For far too long, these 21st-century culprits have acted with impunity,” he said. “This must come to an end if we are to safeguard the nation’s property, privacy and prosperity.”
众议院情报委员会民主党高级官员、加州众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)说，这项命令会向黑客传递一条信息。“太长时间以来，这些21世纪的犯罪分子一直逍遥法外，”他说。“如果我们要保护这个国家的财产、隐私和繁荣，就必须结束这种现状。”
But Republicans criticized Mr. Obama for not collaborating. “These executive actions can only do so much,” said Cory Fritz, a spokesman for House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio. “The president needs to work with Republicans to enact the types of common-sense measures that passed the House in recent years with strong, bipartisan majorities but stalled in the Democratic-controlled Senate.”
不过，共和党人却对奥巴马没有寻求合作提出了批评。“这些行政措施的效果十分有限，”俄亥俄州的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)的发言人科里·弗里茨(Cory Fritz)。“总统需要与共和党人合作，实施那些最近几年在众议院由两党多数通过、在民主党控制的参议院却遭到搁置的那些常规的措施。”