WASHINGTON — When President Obama woke up in Havana on Tuesday to news that explosives had ripped through an airport and a subway in Brussels, it was a familiar, if disconcerting, feeling: another foreign trip overshadowed by violence elsewhere in the world.
华盛顿——周二那天，身在哈瓦那的奥巴马总统注意到布鲁塞尔的机场和地铁发生爆炸的新闻时，应该会有一种熟悉的不安之感涌上心头：他的出国访问之旅因为发生在世界其他地方的暴力事件而蒙上阴影，已经不是第一次了。
Mr. Obama embarked on the juggling act of a traveling commander in chief faced with a crisis: a morning briefing on the terrorist attacks with officials in Washington inside a specially equipped secure communications room, and an expression of condolence and support for the Belgian people inserted at the last minute into his speech to the Cuban people.
危机当前，作为一位出门在外的三军统帅，奥巴马开始一心二用：早上，他在一个具有特殊装备的安全通讯机房里连线华盛顿的官员，听取了有关恐怖袭击的简报；他在结束自己向古巴人民发表的演讲之前，加入了对遇难者的哀悼和对比利时人民的支持。
“We stand in solidarity with them in condemning these outrageous attacks against innocent people,” Mr. Obama declared in the Gran Teatro de la Habana. “We will do whatever is necessary to support our friend and ally Belgium in bringing to justice those who are responsible.”
“我们坚定地站在他们一边，强烈谴责针对无辜平民的残暴袭击，”奥巴马在哈瓦那大剧院(Gran Teatro de la Habana)表示。“我们将采取一切必要的举措，帮助我们的盟友比利时把为此负责的相关人等绳之以法。”
Mr. Obama’s disrupted trips — he has had at least three before this one — speak to a broader tension that has run through his foreign policy from the start: between his efforts to cultivate ties with old foes or expand the United States’ influence in new regions, and the pull of the nation’s perennial obligations in the Middle East.
奥巴马被扰乱的古巴之旅——类似的情况此前至少发生过三次——显示了他的外交政策中大范围存在的矛盾之处——他要努力和美国的宿敌增强联系，或把美国的影响力扩大到新的地区，但又受到美国对中东承担的一贯责任的牵引。
In November, Mr. Obama set off on a round-the-world trade and economic mission to Turkey, Malaysia and the Philippines. Hours before he left, terrorists attacked in Paris, killing 130 people. Rather than showcase the Trans-Pacific Partnership, his Asian trade agreement, the president ended up fielding questions about how to battle the Islamic State and whether to bar Syrian refugees from entering the United States.
去年11月，奥巴马开启了一次环游世界的经贸之旅，访问了土耳其、马来西亚和菲律宾。就在他踏上归途之前几个小时，恐怖分子袭击了巴黎，导致130人死亡。访问接近尾声的时候，总统没能推广他的亚太贸易协议——“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans Pacific Partnership)，而是忙于回答如何与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)作斗争、是否要禁止叙利亚难民进入美国之类的问题。
In March 2011, Mr. Obama landed in Brazil for a five-day tour of South America. In between efforts to promote economic ties with Brazil, he ordered American warplanes to Libya as part of a NATO mission to avert a slaughter in Benghazi by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
2011年3月，奥巴马抵达巴西，对南美洲国家进行为期5天的访问。在竭力促进美巴两国经济关系的过程中，他命令美国战机前往利比亚执行北约(NATO)的任务，以防止穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)在班加西发起一场大屠杀。
Twenty months later, Mr. Obama was in Southeast Asia for a historic visit to Myanmar, with which he had opened diplomatic ties. But he found himself huddled with Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, struggling with how to respond to a military clash between Israel and Hamas in Gaza. Mrs. Clinton flew to Israel and Egypt to negotiate a cease-fire.
12个月后，奥巴马在东南亚对缅甸进行具有历史意义的访问，和缅甸建立了外交关系。但访问期间他不得不和时任国务卿希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)凑在一起，苦苦思索如何应对以色列和哈马斯在加沙的军事冲突。
In Cuba on Tuesday, Mr. Obama stuck to his schedule, going to a baseball game between the Cuban national team and the Tampa Bay Rays. But inevitably, given the political season, he was second-guessed back home: Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said he should either return to Washington to direct the response to the attacks or fly straight to Belgium.
本周二，奥巴马没有改变自己在古巴的行程，观看了一场古巴国家队对阵坦帕湾光芒队的棒球比赛。但鉴于美国正处于大选季，他在国内难免受到非议：俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)和得克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)说，他本应返回华盛顿坐镇指挥，应对恐怖袭击，或者直接飞往比利时。
Hours after the last pitch had been thrown, Donald J. Trump wrote on Twitter that Mr. Obama should leave the game immediately and go home, where the president “under a serious emergency belongs!”
比赛结束几个小时后，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在Twitter上写道，奥巴马应该立即停止观赛回国，这才是处于“紧急状态”的总统应该做的。
Mr. Obama’s decision set up a memorable moment in the middle of the game. The president, wearing sunglasses, khaki slacks and a white shirt, was asked by an ESPN reporter whether he had thought about skipping it.
奥巴马的决定在比赛中创造了一个难忘的时刻。ESPN的一名记者询问戴着墨镜、身穿卡其布裤子和白色衬衫的奥巴马，他是否想过放弃观赛。
“It’s always a challenge when you have a terrorist attack anywhere in the world, particularly in this age of 24/7 news coverage,” Mr. Obama said. “You want to be respectful and understand the gravity of the situation, but the whole premise of terrorism is to try to disrupt people’s ordinary lives.”
“世界任何地方发生恐怖袭击都是一个挑战，特别是在这种全时新闻报道的时代，”奥巴马说。“你想表示尊重，了解事态的严重性，但恐怖主义的目的就是试图扰乱人们的日常生活。”
For the president, who travels with a full complement of national security and communications aides, the biggest disruption from a crisis like the one in Brussels is not logistical but thematic. The issues he had hoped to highlight — in this case, his diplomatic opening to Cuba — were eclipsed by round-the-clock coverage of violent images from somewhere else.
奥巴马带着完整的国家安全及通信助手团队出行，对他来说，布鲁塞尔恐怖袭击这样的危机造成的最大破坏不是后勤方面，而是主题方面。他希望强调的问题——这次是他对古巴打开外交大门——却因为对其他地方的暴力事件的全天候报道而黯然失色。
For all the sophisticated communications gear that follows the president around the world, the White House has struggled to get its message right when he is overseas during a crisis. Last fall, at a meeting of the Group of 20 countries in Antalya, Turkey, Mr. Obama played down fears about the Islamic State, five days after the mass killings in Paris.
尽管奥巴马前往世界各地时会携带先进通讯设备，当出现危机而总统又在海外时，白宫还是难以准确地传达他的信息。去年秋季，也就是巴黎发生大规模屠杀事件的五天之后，奥巴马在土耳其安塔利亚参加20国集团会议时，淡化了对于伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的担忧。
His low-key manner played poorly in the United States, which was already in the heat of a primary season. By the time Mr. Obama arrived at his next stop, in Manila, several Republican candidates were calling for the United States to bar all refugees from Syria. That, Mr. Obama said in a news conference with the Philippine president, Benigno S. Aquino Jr., would amount to a “recruitment tool” for the Islamic State.
他低调的处理方式在美国效果不佳，当时美国已经进入激烈的初选季。奥巴马抵达下一站马尼拉时，几名共和党候选人呼吁美国禁止叙利亚难民入境。奥巴马在与菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·小阿基诺(Benigno S. Aquino Jr.)举行新闻发布会时表示，这对于伊斯兰国来说，相当于“招募工具”。
Even Mr. Obama’s holidays are routinely disrupted by events in the Middle East. In August 2014, critics faulted him for returning to the golf course on Martha’s Vineyard in Massachusetts after condemning the beheading of an American freelance journalist, James Foley, by an Islamic State fighter. (The president later said that was a mistake.)
甚至连奥巴马的假期都经常被中东的事件扰乱。2014年8月，批评人士指责奥巴马在谴责美国自由撰稿人詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)遭伊斯兰国作战人员斩首一事后，回到马萨诸塞州玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha’s Vineyard)打高尔夫。（总统后来表示这是一个错误。）