WASHINGTON — President Obama, shaking off an electoral drubbing that cost his party its Senate majority, said on Wednesday that he was eager to work with Republicans to find common ground during the final two years of his presidency, even as he promised to go through with unilateral action on immigration over strong Republican objections.
华盛顿——选举失利导致奥巴马总统所在的政党失去了参议院多数党的身份。但走出重创的奥巴马在周三表示，迫切希望与共和党合作，在剩下两年的总统任期中找到共识。不过，他也承诺将不顾共和党的强烈反对，把有关移民的单方面行动进行到底。
“The American people overwhelmingly believe that this town doesn’t work well,” Mr. Obama said in a news conference in the ornate East Room of the White House, in which he declined to “read the tea leaves” of the election or say whether he deserved blame for its outcome. “As president, they rightly hold me accountable to make it work better.”
“大多数美国人认为，这个政府做的不好，”奥巴马在华丽的白宫东厅的新闻发布会上说。“身为总统，他们理应向我问责，要我负责去让这个国家变得更好。”在发布会上，奥巴马拒绝对选举“进行预测”，也不愿表明自己是否应该对选举结果负责。
That was as close as Mr. Obama came to accepting responsibility for the punishing results on Tuesday during an exchange with reporters in which he was relentlessly upbeat.
这样的表述，已经足以被视为奥巴马在与记者进行的这场交流中，为周二的惩罚性选举结果承担起了责任。他在交流中一直保持着乐观。
“It doesn’t make me mopey, it energizes me,” Mr. Obama said. As if to underline his forward-looking approach, he opened the session by calling for immediate action by Congress on a request for emergency funding to combat Ebola and a measure to authorize military action against the terrorist group calling itself the Islamic State.
“它不会让我闷闷不乐，反而激励了我，”奥巴马说。似乎是为了突显自己向前看的策略，奥巴马在发布会一开始就要求国会立即采取行动，处理拨付应急资金抗击埃博拉，以及针对自称伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的恐怖组织采取措施，给出军事行动授权。
The president also said he was willing to compromise with Republicans on trade, corporate tax reform and infrastructure spending, and promised to reach out to the leaders of the rival party.
奥巴马还表示愿意与共和党在贸易、企业所得税改革以及基础设施支出方面达成妥协，并承诺将主动接触对方的领袖。
“If the ways that we’re approaching the Republicans in Congress isn’t working, you know, I’m going to try different things, whether it’s having a drink with Mitch McConnell or letting John Boehner beat me again at golf,” the president said with a laugh.
“如果我们目前在国会与共和党接洽的方式不起作用，那么我会进行不同的尝试，不管是和米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)喝一杯，还是在高尔夫球场上再次让约翰·博纳(John Boehner)赢了我，”奥巴马笑着说。
But minutes after Mr. McConnell said in his own news conference that executive action on immigration this year would poison the well for bipartisan cooperation during the remainder of Mr. Obama’s term, the president vowed that he would not back down from his promise to act on his own to overhaul the immigration system.
奥巴马发誓不会放弃在改革移民制度一事上自己做主的承诺，但就在几分钟前，麦康奈尔在自己的新闻发布会上表示，今年对移民事务采取的行政行动，会搅乱两党在奥巴马剩下任期里的合作。
“What I’m not going to do is just wait,” he said, adding that “the American people sent a message — one that they’ve sent for several elections now. They expect the people they elect to work as hard as they do.”
“我不会干等，”奥巴马表示。他接着说，“美国人民发出了信息。他们对几次选举都发出了这样的信息。他们希望选出来的人，能像他们自己那样努力工作。”
In his own news conference in Louisville, Ky., Senator Mitch McConnell, who is likely to lead the new Republican majority in the Senate next year, vowed a spirit of cooperation and compromise with Mr. Obama even as he cautioned that a more starkly divided government in Washington would inevitably lead to sharp partisan disagreements.
明年，参议员米奇·麦康奈尔可能会担任参议院新晋多数党共和党的领袖。他在肯塔基州路易斯维尔举行的新闻发布会上承诺，将发扬合作精神，与奥巴马达成妥协。但他警告称，华盛顿联邦政府内部更加明显的分歧，将不可避免地导致明显的党派不和。
“When the American people choose divided government, I don’t think it means they don’t want us to do anything,” Mr. McConnell told reporters in his first news conference since his party trounced Democrats in Tuesday’s elections. “We ought to start with the view that maybe there are some things we can agree on to make progress for the country.”
“美国人民选择了一个有分歧的政府，但我觉得这并不意味着他们不想让我们做点什么，”麦康奈尔告诉记者。“我们首先应该持这样一个观点，即或许我们能在一些事情上达成一致，以便让这个国家向前发展。”这是麦康奈尔在自己的政党周二大败民主党后，首次召开新闻发布会。
Mr. McConnell largely sidestepped the most divisive issues that are likely to create conflict between his members and Mr. Obama. And he played down ideological differences among his own members that might disrupt any efforts to compromise with the president.
麦康奈尔基本避开了最具争议的问题，这些问题可能会在共和党参议员与奥巴马之间引发冲突。他还淡化了共和党参议员之间在思想意识上的差异。这些差异也可能破坏与总统达成妥协的任何努力。
But he promised to make the Senate “work again” by changing the rules in the chamber. And he flatly promised that Congress would not shut down the government or default on the national debt in disputes about the nation’s finances.
但他承诺将通过改变参议院的规则，让该机构“再次运转起来”。他还坚定地承诺，国会不会让政府停摆，也不会在有关美国财源的争端中让国家出现债务违约。
The Republican leader said Mr. Obama called him on Wednesday and discussed issues that might form the basis of a common agenda, including work on trade deals that Republican lawmakers strongly support. He described his relationship with Mr. Obama as “cordial” in the past several years.
这名共和党领袖说，奥巴马周三致电自己，两人对一些问题进行了讨论，这些问题可能会构成达成共同议程的基础，其中包括共和党议员强烈支持的贸易协议相关工作。他称自己过去几年与奥巴马关系“融洽”。
“There’s not a personality problem here or anything like that,” Mr. McConnell said.
“我们之间不存在性格方面的问题，或是任何诸如此类的问题，”麦康奈尔说。
But Mr. McConnell also acknowledged that there would be issues that divide the parties and he signaled that some of those were likely to generate the kind of tension in Washington that voters despise.
但麦康奈尔也承认，会出现让两党产生分歧的问题，他表示，其中一些问题可能会带来类似华盛顿紧张局势的情况，选民们对这种局势感到厌恶。
“We will certainly be voting on things as well that we think the administration is not fond of,” he said.
他说，“我们也必定会就我们认为政府不喜欢的事情举行投票。”
The full magnitude of the Republican Party’s success in reshaping the national political landscape at Mr. Obama’s expense became clearer Wednesday as the party seemed headed toward an even longer list of electoral victories in Senate and governor races that had been too close to call.
周三，随着共和党一路前行，似乎将在难分伯仲的参议院及州长竞选中赢得有史以来最大规模的胜利，共和党在削弱奥巴马的势力，重构美国政治格局方面获得巨大胜利的可能性越来越大。
In Alaska, the winner of the Senate race remained uncertain Wednesday, though the Republican candidate, Dan Sullivan, moved into a small lead in the vote count and appeared poised to oust Senator Mark Begich, a Democrat. A victory by Mr. Sullivan would further whittle away Mr. Obama’s support in a Senate that has for years served as the president’s bulwark in Congress against the Republican-controlled House.
周三，虽然阿拉斯加州的参议院竞选获胜者尚未确定，但票数统计显示共和党候选人丹·沙利文(Dan Sullivan)小幅领先，似乎准备取代民主党参议员马克·贝吉奇(Mark Begich)。沙利文的胜利会进一步削弱参议院对奥巴马的支持，多年来，参议院一直充当总统在国会的堡垒，抵御共和党控制的众议院。
If Mr. Sullivan wins and Republicans succeed in ousting Senator Mary L. Landrieu in Louisiana in a runoff election next month, Republicans would command a 54-vote majority in the Senate, a gain of nine seats and an almost complete turnaround from the current chamber, where Democrats control 55 seats.
如果沙利文获胜，共和党人在路易斯安那州下个月举行的决选中成功取代参议员玛丽·L·兰德里欧(Mary L. Landrieu)，共和党人将掌控参议院拥有54个席位的多数党，共和党席位将比现在多九个，实现彻底的大逆转，目前民主党人控制了55个席位。
In Virginia, Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat, was slightly ahead in the vote count in his bid for re-election, but his Republican challenger, Ed Gillespie, a former lobbyist and Republican political adviser, was within less than a percentage point and could request a recount in that state.
在弗吉尼亚州，票数统计显示，竞选连任的民主党参议员马克·沃纳(Mark Warner)稍稍领先，但来自共和党的挑战者——前说客、共和党政治顾问克埃德·吉莱斯皮(Ed Gillespie)只差了不到一个百分点，他可能会要求重新计票。
Republican candidates for governor in Maryland, Maine and Massachusetts also claimed victories over Democratic opponents in states that by all accounts should have been bright spots for the president and his allies in an otherwise dismal election season.
马里兰州、缅因州及马萨诸塞州的共和党州长候选人也都宣称击败民主党对手，获得胜利。而此前一致认为，对于奥巴马及其盟友来说，这些州应该是这个惨淡的选举季的亮点。
In Colorado, Gov. John W. Hickenlooper, a Democrat, narrowly clinched a second term early Wednesday morning, fending off an unexpectedly tough challenge from a Republican congressman who accused the governor of yanking Colorado too far left on gun control, energy and taxes.
周三清晨，科罗拉多州州长、民主党人约翰·W·希肯卢伯(John W. Hickenlooper)以微弱优势赢得第二任期，抵挡了来自一名共和党国会议员的极为严峻的挑战，这名议员指责科罗拉多州州长在枪支管控、能源及税收问题上将科罗拉多州拽向极左的倾向。
In Connecticut, a bitter race for governor ended Wednesday when Thomas C. Foley, the Republican challenger, conceded in an email to supporters, handing victory to the incumbent, Dannel P. Malloy.
在康涅狄格州，激烈的州长竞选于周三结束，共和党挑战者托马斯·C·福利(Thomas C. Foley)在给支持者的邮件中承认自己败给了现任州长达内尔·P·马洛伊(Dannel P. Malloy)。
“Governors get things done. That’s what the country wants,” Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said on the “Today” show on NBC on Wednesday. Mr. Christie dodged questions about his own presidential ambitions, saying that “today is a day to celebrate what my fellow governors have done.”
新泽西州州长、共和党州长协会(Republican Governors Association)主席克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)周三参加NBC节目《今日秀》(Today Show)时说，“州长把事情做好。这是这个国家希望看到的。”克里斯蒂避开了有关自己总统野心的问题，称“今天是称赞我的州长同仁们的日子”。
By Wednesday afternoon, it appeared that Republicans were on the verge of picking up 15 additional seats and possibly a few more — gains that would give them their largest majority since the World War II era.
看起来截至周三下午，共和党人即将获得另外15个席位，或许更多，这使他们成为二战以来获得席位最多的多数党。
The Democratic losses were even larger than top White House aides had feared they might be, and appeared likely to require a rethinking by the president of how he governs during the final two years of a second term that has already been marked by discord and gridlock with the Republican Party.
民主党的失败超过了白宫高级助手的预期，总统似乎可能需要重新思考在第二任期剩下的两年时间里该如何执政。与共和党不和、陷入僵局是奥巴马第二任期的特点。