WASHINGTON — President Obama and Donald J. Trump made a public show on Thursday of putting their bitter differences aside after a stunning election upset. The Oval Office meeting brought together a president who has darkly warned that Mr. Trump could not be trusted with the nuclear codes and a successor who rose to political prominence questioning Mr. Obama’s birthplace and legitimacy.
华盛顿——在一场令人震惊的选举之后，本周四的公开场合上，奥巴马总统和唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)表现出已将尖锐的分歧抛在了一边的模样。总统曾忧虑地警告说，特朗普不是一个可以托付核武密码的人，这位继任者则通过对奥巴马的出生地和合法性提出质疑获得了政治资本，而今，椭圆形办公室会面把两人聚在了一起。
“I want to emphasize to you, Mr. President-elect, that we now are going to want to do everything we can to help you succeed because if you succeed, then the country succeeds,” Mr. Obama told Mr. Trump as the two sat side-by-side after the roughly 90-minute meeting. The president called the session “excellent” and wide-ranging.
“我想向你强调，候任总统先生，我们现在将竭尽所能帮助你获得成功，因为如果你成功了，这个国家就会成功，”奥巴马告诉特朗普，两人在大约90分钟的会议后并排坐着。总统称会议进行得“非常好”，涵盖了广泛内容。
Mr. Trump, who said he had never met Mr. Obama before and expected the meeting to last only 10 or 15 minutes, said it had been a “great honor” to sit with the president.
特朗普说自己以前从来没有见过奥巴马，本以为会议只会持续10到15分钟。他说，与奥巴马坐在一起是“巨大的荣誉”。
“We discussed a lot of different situations, some wonderful and some difficulties. I very much look forward to dealing with the president in the future, including counsel,” Mr. Trump said.
“我们讨论了很多不同的情况，有些很美好，有些很困难。我非常期待在未来与奥巴马总统打交道，包括征求他的建议，”特朗普说。
It was an extraordinary show of cordiality and respect between two men who have been political enemies and are stylistic opposites — Mr. Trump a brash real estate executive and reality television star whose campaign was defined in opposition to the sitting president, and Mr. Obama, a cool-tempered intellectual who has pressed a progressive agenda in office.
作为风格迥异的两位政敌，他们展现了难得的亲切和尊重，特朗普是傲慢的房地产高管、真人秀电视明星，其竞选活动的基调就是反对现任总统，而奥巴马是一个冷静的知识分子，在白宫期间推动了一个具有进步意义的议程。
Mr. Trump, whose election on Tuesday stunned the president and rocked the political establishment in Washington, arrived in the White House driveway on Thursday out of sight of the crowds of reporters and news media cameras assembled there. His staff had refused to arrange for journalists to document his movements, as is customary both for the president and the president-elect, and Mr. Obama’s team did not arrange for the traditional photograph of the sitting president and his wife greeting their successors in front of the White House.
特朗普在本周二当选新一任总统，令奥巴马深感震惊，也让华盛顿的政治建制派目瞪口呆，本周四他抵达白宫门前的车道，但聚集在那里的记者和摄像机却扑了个空。因循总统和候任总统的惯例，他的工作人员拒绝安排记者记录此行，而奥巴马的团队没有安排总统和第一夫人在白宫门口欢迎继任者的例行照相活动。
Mr. Obama said his wife, Michelle, who emerged this fall as an outspoken critic of Mr. Trump on the campaign trail, met with Melania Trump while their husbands spoke in the Oval Office.
第一夫人米歇尔在今年秋天的竞选活动中直言不讳地批评过特朗普，奥巴马说，两人在椭圆形办公室交谈的时候，米歇尔与梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)见了面。
“We want to make sure that they feel welcome,” Mr. Obama said of the Trumps.
“我们想确保他们感到受欢迎，”奥巴马谈到特朗普夫妇时说。
The meetings unfolded as Mr. Obama’s staff was starting the daunting business of handing over the vast bureaucracy of the United States government to Mr. Trump’s staff, including vital national security information and resources he would need in the event of a catastrophic attack.
在双方会面的同时，奥巴马的幕僚也开始将美国政府的庞大官僚机构交给特朗普的幕僚，包括重要的国家安全信息以及遭遇灾难性攻击时所需的资源。
Ahead of Mr. Trump’s arrival in Washington on Thursday morning, top advisers to Mr. Obama had spent months preparing for a transition, a highly complex venture condensed into the 72-day period between now and the Jan. 20 inauguration. It is up to them and the Trump team to set it in motion, pairing Obama administration staff members with representatives of the president-elect for crash courses in the inner workings of the White House and federal agencies. Two war-gaming exercises are planned to help ready the new team for a terrorist strike or other national security crisis.
在特朗普于周四上午抵达华盛顿之前，奥巴马的高级顾问已经花了数月时间为这场交接做准备。这是一项极为复杂的行动，要在从现在开始到明年1月20日就职典礼前的短短72天里完成。他们会和特朗普的团队一起启动这项工作，由奥巴马政府的工作人员与候任总统的代表配合完成有关白宫和联邦机构内部运作的速成课。他们还计划举行两场实战演习，以帮助新的团队准备好应对恐怖袭击或其他国家安全危机。
Mr. Obama said Wednesday that he had instructed his staff to follow the example set by President George W. Bush in 2008 and provide a professional and smooth transition for Mr. Trump’s team, despite the vast policy differences that separate the president and his successor. For all the public drama and division of the presidential campaign, in private, Mr. Obama’s aides have since July been quietly working with advisers to both Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump to plan for the passing of power.
虽然和他的继任者之间存在巨大的政策分歧，奥巴马在周三表示，已经指示其幕僚效仿乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统在2008年的做法，帮助特朗普的团队实现专业而平稳的过渡。尽管在总统竞选期间发生了诸多众所周知的纷扰与分歧，但是在私下里，奥巴马的助手自今年7月以来一直在悄悄地同时与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和特朗普的顾问筹划权力交接事宜。
“As everyone has been ramping down and wrapping things up elsewhere around this building, I have been ramping up here for this next phase,” said Anita Decker Breckenridge, Mr. Obama’s deputy chief of staff. She said she had been impressed by the personnel sent by both campaigns to plan the transition.
“楼里每个人都在逐渐放下手头的工作，整理打包东西，我却一直在为下一个任期增加工作，”奥巴马的副幕僚长阿妮塔·德克尔·布雷肯里奇(Anita Decker Breckenridge)说。她表示，她对两个竞选团队派来筹划过渡事宜的工作人员印象都不错。
“They have taken it seriously,” she said in an interview.
“他们态度非常认真，”她在接受采访时说。
Still, given that Mr. Trump’s was a nontraditional campaign that did not have scores of seasoned policy staff members or deep relationships within Washington, it is not clear who will be assigned to do the highly technical work of taking the reins of government.
但是，考虑到特朗普进行的是一场非传统的竞选活动，没有太多经验丰富的政策工作人员，在华盛顿也没有深厚的人脉，目前还不清楚他会派谁来负责接掌政府这件技术性很强的工作。
“Landing teams” now in place at each federal agency will begin working as early as Thursday with aides designated by Mr. Trump to hand over crucial operations, some of them using sensitive technology tools, such as secure websites, to make the information more easily digestible.
现在已经在每个联邦机构就位的“着陆队”，最早将于周四开始与特朗普指派的助手一起工作，移交关键事务，其中一些要使用加密网站等敏感的技术工具，以使信息更容易吸收。
At the Department of Homeland Security, officials have loaded briefing materials onto tablets for the president-elect’s team in a searchable format. At the Department of Justice, officials created a cloud portal for the information.
在国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)，工作人员将简报材料以可搜索格式装载到平板电脑上，提供给候任总统的团队。司法部(Department of Justice)的工作人员则创建了一个信息云入口。
“Our emphasis here has been putting together quality not quantity – we want to have targeted materials,” said Lee Lofthus, the Justice Department’s assistant attorney general for administration. “The goal here is not to be putting together phone books that people have to file through.”
“这里的重点是汇总有质量的东西，而不追求数量——我们想要有针对性的材料，”司法部行政副部长李·洛夫特斯(Lee Lofthus)说。“我们的目标不是要做一本供人提交文件用的电话簿。”
But the crush of information may be onerous, particularly when it comes to Mr. Trump’s task of hiring 4,000 political appointees over a matter of weeks. Saddled with an antiquated personnel system when Mr. Obama was elected in 2008, his aides moved this year to build a new one designed to make it easier to track the positions, as well as the applicants and their personal and professional information.
但信息处理工作可能会十分繁重，尤其是考虑到特朗普在接下来的几周内将需要任命4000名政府官员。2008年当选总统时，奥巴马接手的是一套过时的人事系统，今年他的助手采取行动，打造了一套新的系统，以便他们能更方便地追踪职位、申请人及他们的个人和职业信息。
In December, Mr. Obama’s team plans to hold the first of two war-gaming exercises to prepare Mr. Trump and his staff for a potential national security crisis.
奥巴马的团队计划在今年12月举行两场作战演习中的第一场，好让特朗普及其幕僚为应对潜在的国家安全危机做好准备。
Mr. Obama’s aides participated in a similar exercise organized by Mr. Bush’s White House the week before his 2009 inauguration, during which they sat side by side in the Situation Room and gamed out how the government would respond to a series of simultaneous explosions in American cities.
在奥巴马于2009年正式就职之前，他的助手就曾参加过布什领导的白宫举办的类似演习。在那期间，他们并肩坐在军情室内，演示政府会如何应对在美国多个城市同时发生的一系列爆炸。
The second simulation for Mr. Trump is set for January, days before he officially gains access to the nuclear codes.
为特朗普准备的第二场演练计划在明年1月进行，即他正式获得核武器密码几天前。