ORLANDO, Fla. — A gunman killed 50 people and wounded 53 in a crowded gay nightclub in Orlando early Sunday, officials said, in the worst mass shooting slaughter in American history, and law enforcement officials said it was an act of terrorism.
佛罗里达州奥兰多——警方称，一名枪手周日凌晨在奥兰多一家拥挤的同性恋夜总会里开枪打死50人，打伤至少53人，制造了美国历史上最严重的大规模枪击事件。执法官员表示，这是恐怖主义行为。
The gunman was Omar Mateen, an American citizen living in Port St. Lucie, Fla., federal law enforcement officials said.
联邦执法官员说，枪手名叫奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)，是居住在佛罗里达州圣露西港的美国公民。
The killer stormed the Pulse nightclub armed with an assault rifle and a handgun — investigators were still looking into the possibility that he had explosives, as well — at about 2 a.m., when more than 300 people were inside dancing and drinking, said John Mina, the Orlando police chief.
奥兰多警察局长约翰·米那(John Mina)说，凌晨2点左右，这名持有突击步枪和手枪的凶手冲进名叫“脉动”(Pulse)的夜总会，调查人员仍在调查他还携带炸药的可能性。当时夜总会里有300多人在跳舞、喝酒。
The gunman exchanged fire with an off-duty police officer working security at the club, then mowed down dozens of patrons, sending hundreds of others, some of them bleeding, fleeing down the darkened streets of the surrounding neighborhood.
枪手与一名在夜总会担任保安的休班警察交了火，然后把几十名顾客射倒在地，枪火让包括流血者在内的数百人逃离夜店，进入附近街区的黑暗街道中。
The gunman holed up inside with dozens of people effectively held hostage, some of them hiding in a restroom frantically calling for help, until after 5 a.m., when the police, using an armored vehicle and stun grenades, assaulted and killed him. The raid saved about 30 people, Chief Mina said.
枪手与相当于人质的数十人一起藏在店里，有些顾客躲进了厕所，焦急地呼救，直到警察在凌晨5点后，使用装甲车和把人击昏的手榴弹向枪手发起进攻，将他打死。米那说，进攻让大约30人得救。
Ronald Hopper, an assistant agent in charge of the F.B.I.’s Tampa Division, raised the possibility that the killer was an Islamist radical, and law enforcement officials said they were investigating the slaughter as an act of terrorism.
美国联邦调查局(FBI)负责坦帕分局的助理特工罗纳德·霍珀(Ronald Hopper)提出了凶手是伊斯兰激进分子的可能性，执法官员表示，他们正在把这次大规模枪杀案作为恐怖主义行为进行调查。
“We do have suggestions that that individual may have leanings towards that, that particular ideology,” Agent Hopper said at a news conference. “But right now we can’t say definitively, so we’re still running everything around.”
“我们的确有线索暗示，该人可能有那种倾向，那种特定的意识形态，”霍珀在新闻发布会上说。“但在目前，我们还不能确定，所以我们仍调查所有的有关情况。”
Federal law enforcement officials said they had found no indication so far that the attacker was linked to any wider organization, though they and the police were investigating several possible terrorism angles, both overseas and in the United States. Past terrorist attacks, like the massacre in December in San Bernardino, Calif., were carried out in the name of Islam by people who were “self-radicalized,” apparently having no direct ties to any organization but inspired by groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda.
联邦执法官员表示，到目前为止，他们尚未发现任何迹象表明该袭击者与任何更广泛的组织有联系，但他们正在与当地警方一起从几种可能的恐怖主义角度展开调查，包括海外及美国国内的恐怖主义。过去的恐怖袭击，比如去年12月发生在加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺的大规模枪杀案，是以伊斯兰的名义进行的，行凶者是“自我激进化的”，似乎并没有与任何组织有直接联系，而是受到像伊斯兰国和基地组织等组织的启发。
The Islamic State in particular has encouraged “lone wolf” attacks in the West, specifically the United States, a point reinforced recently by the group’s spokesman in his annual pre-Ramadan speech. Noting that some supporters have lamented that they cannot strike at military targets, he took pains to explain why killing civilians in the land of the infidel is not just permitted but encouraged.
特别是伊斯兰国，它一直在鼓励“独狼”袭击西方，尤其是美国，伊斯兰国的一名发言人最近在预斋月前发表年度讲话时，还强调了这一点。提到一些支持者感叹自己不能袭击军事目标时，他煞费苦心地解释，为什么不仅允许、而且鼓励在异教徒的土地上杀死平民。
Terrorist groups have not claimed responsibility for the Orlando shooting as yet, but a social messaging account linked to the Islamic State gloated about the attack.
目前还没有恐怖组织宣称对奥兰多枪击事件负责，但一个与伊斯兰国有联系的社交短信帐户对袭击表示洋洋得意。
Local and federal authorities were investigating, and the F.B.I. set up a hotline for tips.
地方和联邦当局正在展开调查，联邦调查局还设立了一个提供线索的热线。
The toll of dead and injured far exceeded the 32 people killed at Virginia Tech in 2007, and the 26 gunned down at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., in 2012.
本案的死亡和受伤人数远远超过2007年在弗吉尼亚理工大学枪击案中死亡的32人，以及2012年在康涅狄格州新镇一所小学被开枪打死的26人。
Witnesses described a scene of chaos and confusion, saying it was hard at first to realize that the gunshots were not part of the loud, pulsing dance music.
目击者描述了一个混乱不堪的现场，他们说，人们最初难以意识到那是枪声，而不是震耳欲聋的脉动舞蹈音乐的一部分。
“We were dancing by the hip-hop area when I heard shots, bam, bam, bam, and the only thing I could think of was to duck, but I ran out instead,” said Joel Figueroa, 19, of Orlando, who had been inside. “Everybody was screaming and running toward the front door. I didn’t get to see the shooter.”
“我听到砰、砰、砰的枪声时，我们正在嘻哈舞区跳舞，我当时唯一的想法就是低头躲子弹，但我还是跑了出来，”19岁的奥兰多人乔尔·菲格罗亚(Joel Figueroa)说，当时他在夜店里。“所有的人都大声叫喊着向前门跑。我没能看到枪手。”
He said a friend of his had been shot three times and taken to a hospital.
菲格罗亚说，他的一个朋友中了三枪、被送往医院。
President Obama was briefed on the attack by Lisa Monaco, assistant to the president for homeland security and counterterrorism, the White House said, and asked to receive regular updates on the investigation.
白宫表示，奥巴马总统从国家安全与反恐事务总统助理莉萨·莫纳科(Lisa Monaco)那里听取了有关袭击的汇报，并要求收到有关调查进展的及时情况。
The gunman was shot by SWAT officers who stormed Pulse, one of the largest gay clubs in Orlando, at about 5 a.m. The officers were trying to rescue dozens of people who were being held hostage, Chief Mina said.
警察局长米那说，枪手被大约凌晨5点冲进“脉动”的特警人员打死，“脉动”是奥兰多的同性恋俱乐部中最大的一家。米那说，特警人员试图营救被劫持的数十名人质。
The shooting began inside the club, he said, and continued outside when an officer working at Pulse tried to confront him. The gunman then ran back into the club, resumed shooting and took hostages.
他说，射击是在夜总会里面开始的，在“脉动”工作的一名警员试图对抗枪手后，射击持续到了店外。枪手后来跑回了夜店，继续开枪射击，并劫持了人质。
At 5 a.m., Chief Mina said, the police decided to attempt a rescue, detonating two explosives to distract the gunman and to help clear the club.
米那说，凌晨5点，警方决定进行救援尝试，引爆了两枚炸弹以分散枪手的注意力，并帮助疏散夜总会。
“With that advantage,” the chief said, nine officers moved into the club to confront the gunman. In the ensuing shootout, one of the officers was slightly wounded, saved by his Kevlar helmet, the authorities said.
“有了这个优势之后，”这位负责人说，九名警员进入了夜总会抗击枪手。在随后的枪战中，一名警察受了轻伤，他的凯夫拉尔头盔保住了他的性命，当局说。
During the rescue and shootout, officers with the SWAT team — using an armored vehicle — entered the club and hurried people to safety. Many of them had sought shelter in other sections of the sprawling club.
在进行救援和枪战的过程中，特警队人员使用装甲车进入了夜总会，并尽快将里面的人带到安全的地方。他们中有许多人躲到了这个巨大夜总会的其他地方。
The survivors escaped under the cover of what the police called the two “discretionary explosions.”
幸存者在警察称为“酌情引爆”的两枚炸弹的掩护下逃出了夜总会。