There are a lot of people who seem intent on restarting the Cold War — in both Moscow and Washington. I am not one of them. But if we’re going to have a new Cold War, then I have one condition: I want a new moonshot.
不管是在莫斯科还是华盛顿，很多人似乎都一心想要重启冷战。我不是其中之一。但如果我们要迎来一场新冷战，那我有一个条件：我想要一次新的月球发射。
The Space Race and the technologies it produced weren’t purely an offshoot of the U.S.-Soviet missile competition, but they were certainly energized by that competition. Well, if we’re going to go at it again, this time I want an Earth Race. I want America to lead in developing an energy policy that will weaken the oil-and-gas-autocracy of Russian President Vladimir Putin, and, as a byproduct, produce the technologies that will mitigate climate change, make America a global technology and moral leader and ensure that the next generation can thrive here on Earth. 
太空竞赛(Space Race)以及它所带来的科技不单单是美苏导弹竞赛的副产品，但那场竞赛肯定为它们注入了活力。好吧，如果我们又要开战，那这一次我想来一次地球竞赛(Earth Race)。我希望美国能牵头制定一项能源政策，来削弱俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的油气独裁，还能附带地催生一些科技。这些科技将减缓气候变化，让美国成为全球的科技和道德领袖，并且确保下一代能在地球上茁壮成长。
And as opposed to the stimulus/deficit debate, in the energy case, there really is now the raw material for a “Grand Bargain” between Democrats and Republicans — if President Obama wants to try to forge it. Such an energy grand strategy would be a first. It’s shocking how devoid of strategic intent U.S. energy policy has been. Both political parties have repeatedly let our economy be hostage to Middle Eastern and Latin American oil despots and to energy booms and busts.
与刺激/赤字之辩相反的是，关于能源，现在真的有能让民主党和共和党进行一场“大妥协”的原料——如果奥巴马总统想试着忘却的话。这种能源大战略将是第一位的。美国能源政策中战略意图的缺乏程度令人震惊。两党都多次让我们的经济被中东和拉美的石油暴君，以及能源业的兴衰挟持。
The key ingredients for a new U.S. energy strategy, argues Hal Harvey, the C.E.O. of Energy Innovation, is, first, “to optimize affordability, reliability and clean together, rather than one at the expense of the other.” Second to “take advantage of new technology,  we finally have the capacity to build an energy system we can be proud of, and by choosing this future, we will stimulate even more technologies that deliver energy that is indeed affordable, reliable and clean.” And, third, to “ensure that our natural gas bonanza actually ushers in a truly clean future.”
能源创新公司(Energy Innovation)的首席执行官哈尔·哈维(Hal Harvey)称，美国新能源政策的关键要素是，首先“同时优化购买力、可靠性和清洁性，而不是以其中一方为代价来改善另一方”。其次是“利用新技术，我们终于有能力建立一个能引以为豪的能源体系，并且通过选择这样的未来，我们将催生出更多的技术，这些技术会带来真正用得起、可靠、清洁的能源”。第三是“确保我们丰富的天然气真的能开启一个真正清洁的未来”。
Here’s the deal Obama should offer oil-patch Republicans and Democrats. “You really want to open up the country to the exploration of natural gas? You really want to be free to export oil and gas to global markets — so long as it’s consistent with our national interests — and affect global markets in ways that could weaken Putinism? You really want the Keystone pipeline? Fine, I’ll give you all of it. And in return you’ll give me a bridge to a secure, clean-energy future for America.”
这便是奥巴马应该向石油业的共和党人和民主党人提出的交易。“你们真的想让美国开发天然气？真的想自由地把石油和天然气出口到全球市场上去——只要符合我们的国家利益——并以削弱普京主义的方式影响全球市场？你们真的想建成Keystone输油管道？好吧，我都同意。但作为回报，你们要为我搭起通向美国安全、清洁能源的未来的一座桥梁。
Harvey argues that such a deal should include the following: First, to ensure that natural gas is a boon rather than a curse, the oil and gas industry — and the lawmakers they control — have to accept national rules for extracting natural gas based on known best practices, including strategies that eliminate the leakage of methane, which is so much more potent a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide.
哈维认为，这份协议应该包括以下内容：首先，为了确保天然气是福音而不是祸患，油气产业——以及受制于它们的议员——必须遵守国家规定，根据已知的最佳手法开采天然气，包括防止甲烷泄露的诸多策略。甲烷也是一种温室气体，威力比二氧化碳大得多。
Second, we need to set a national clean energy standard for electricity. One popular approach is to require utilities to raise the fraction of their electricity from zero-carbon sources — such as wind, solar or nuclear — by, say, 2 percent per year. Such a standard creates a market for renewables, which drives down costs, and helps ensure that natural gas is a transition fuel that replaces coal, not solar, wind and other clean power sources. Thirty states have some variant of this, and it has been hugely successful in stimulating development of new technology.
第二，我们需要为发电行业制定一个国家级的清洁能源标准。一种流行的做法是，要求公用事业企业增加零碳能源——包括风能、太阳能和核能——所发电量在总发电量中的比例，比如，每年增加2%。制定这样的标准将为可再生能源创造市场。可再生能源可以压低成本，确保将天然气作为替代煤炭的过渡性燃料，而不是太阳能、风能或其他清洁能源。有30个州已经在不同程度上采取了这种做法，极为成功地刺激了新技术的发展。
Third, we have to accelerate energy efficiency and clean power technologies by building up our research and development programs to the levels they merit, probably triple today’s levels. This is the source of our long-term advantage.
第三，我们必须提高能效，加速开发清洁电力技术，这需要把我们现有的研发项目提高到应有的层次，或许应该是目前水平的三倍。这将是我们长期优势的来源。
Fourth, we have to impose a revenue-neutral carbon tax — a Republican idea, championed by one of America’s most respected statesmen, Reagan’s secretary of state, George Shultz — that would replace payroll and corporate taxes.
第四，我们必须实施与收入无关的碳税政策——这是共和党的主意，得到了美国德高望重的议员、里根政府的国务卿乔治·舒尔茨(George Shultz)的支持——从而取代工资税和企业税。
I don’t like Keystone. Extracting oil from tar sands leads to even higher carbon emissions than drilling and devastates the landscape. But, if approval is the price for a truly transformational clean energy policy, I’m in. You’re not going to move the vested interests without a trade, but it has to be a smart trade.
我讨厌Keystone工程。与钻井相比，从沥青砂中提取石油的碳排放量更高，而且破坏地貌。但是，如果非得批准这个工程，才能产生一个真正具有变革性的清洁能源政策，那我就同意。你不可能不做什么交易就来改变既得利益，但必须是明智的交易。
This is a grand bargain on energy that would advance our growth, national security and climate policy. If paired with similar efforts by our NATO allies, it would, in time, sharply reduce Putin’s ability to blackmail his neighbors, using energy. It would also protect Americans from price shocks, as both the sun and the wind are free, make our farmers, our coastal cities and our public health system much more resilient and tilt our energy policy toward exploiting our advantage — technology — rather than oil.
这一项在能源领域的大妥协将推动我们的经济增长、国家安全和气候政策。如果我们的北约盟友也配合采取类似的行动，就可以及时地大幅削弱普京利用能源要挟邻国的能力。这也可以使美国人免受价格冲击——因为太阳能和风能都是免费的，还可以增强我们的农场、沿海城市和公共健康系统的适应力，让我们的能源政策朝着利用自身优势的方向上倾斜，我们的优势是技术，不是石油。