WASHINGTON — President Obama claimed credit on Tuesday for an improving economy and defiantly told his Republican adversaries in Congress to “turn the page” by supporting an expensive domestic agenda aimed at improving the fortunes of the middle class.
华盛顿——本周二，美国总统奥巴马称政府的举措改善了经济，并用强硬的语气敦促国会的共和党对手“翻开新的一页”，支持一些旨在增加中产阶级财富的需要高额开支的国内举措。
Released from the political constraints of a sagging economy, overseas wars and elections, Mr. Obama declared in his sixth State of the Union address that “the shadow of crisis has passed,” and vowed to use his final two years in office fighting for programs that have taken a back seat. He called on Congress to make community college free for most students, enhance tax credits for education and child care and impose new taxes and fees on high-income earners and large financial institutions.
奥巴马摆脱了疲软的经济、海外战争和选举这些政治制约，在其第六次国情咨文演讲中表示，“危机的阴影已经过去”，在其任期的最后两年，他将致力于推动那些此前遭到忽略的项目。他呼吁国会免除大多数学生在社区学院就读的学费，强化教育和儿童保健方面的税收优惠措施，并对高收入者和大型金融机构征收新的税费。
“We have risen from recession freer to write our own future than any other nation on Earth,” Mr. Obama said in an address seen by an estimated 30 million people. “Will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well? Or will we commit ourselves to an economy that generates rising incomes and chances for everyone who makes the effort?”
“我们已经从衰退中复苏，目前比世界上其他任何国家都能更加自由地书写自身的未来，”奥巴马在约3000万人观看的讲话中说。“我们要发展一个仅供少数人兴旺发达的经济呢，还是一个可以全面提升收入，每个人只要努力就会有机会的经济？”
The president used the prime-time speech to call on Congress to pass new legislation authorizing the fight against the Islamic State. The president said approval of a resolution granting him that power — something he has argued he does not need to carry out the five-month-old campaign — would send an important signal. “Tonight, I call on this Congress to show the world that we are united in this mission,'’ Mr. Obama said.
总统在黄金时段发表的这次演讲，呼吁美国国会通过一项授权打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的新立法。他表示，批准一项授予他权力的决议——他曾说，开展这次已经持续了五个月的活动并不需要授权——将发出一个重要的信号。“今晚，我呼吁本届国会，向世界展示，我们在这项任务上团结一致，”奥巴马说。
“This effort will take time,” he said of the five-month battle to defeat the Islamic State, the Sunni militant group that is also known as ISIS or ISIL. “It will require focus. But we will succeed.”
“这项工作需要时间和专注力，但是，我们一定会成功，”他谈到打击伊斯兰国的行动时说。伊斯兰国也被称为ISIS或ISIL，是逊尼派激进组织。
He also urged lawmakers to lift the trade embargo on Cuba as he moves to normalize relations with the Communist island nation.
他还敦促国会解除对古巴的贸易禁运，因为他已经在开始推动美国与这个共产主义岛国的关系正常化。
When he entered the chamber, a smiling Mr. Obama shook hands with members of Congress as he worked his way past six members of the Supreme Court and most of his cabinet. He received several standing ovations in the first few minutes, with members of both parties leaping to their feet as he saluted the “courage and sacrifice of every man and woman in this 9/11 generation who has served to keep us safe.”
奥巴马走进会场，在经过最高法院的六名成员，以及他的大部分内阁成员身边时，微笑着与国会议员们握手。在最初几分钟里，他获得了数次起立鼓掌。当他向“‘9.11’这一代的所有人，为了保证我们的安全，所表现出来的勇气，做出的牺牲”致敬时，两党成员均热情地站起身来。
Yet he was facing a skeptical Congress hours after vowing to veto Republican legislation that would restrict abortion and speed the approval of natural gas pipelines, the latest in a series of veto threats that reflect his eagerness to confront conservative ideology despite his party’s major losses in the congressional elections in the fall. He promised on Tuesday night that any attempt to roll back the health care law, stand in the way of Wall Street regulations or delay his executive actions on immigration would meet with the same fate.
然而，在誓言要否决共和党关于限制堕胎、加快天然气管道审批的立法后，他在国会面临着议员们的质疑。之前他就发出过一系列否决立法的威胁，这表明，尽管他的民主党在去年秋季的国会选举遭遇重大挫败，他仍积极与保守派思想对抗。本周二晚上，他发誓说，任何试图逆转他的医疗法案，阻挡华尔街立法，或拖延关于移民的行政行动的做法，都将遭遇同样下场。
The president sought to cement an economic legacy that seemed improbable early in his first term, when the country was nearly in economic collapse. The speech seemed designed in part to live beyond his presidency by helping to starkly define the differences between Democrats and Republicans ahead of the 2016 presidential election.
奥巴马试图巩固自己在经济领域的成就。在他的第一个任期初期，这种成就看似是不可达成的，因为当时美国经济几近崩溃。在一定程度上说，他似乎想让这次演讲的影响扩散至自己总统任期之后，因为他在演讲中明确界定了2016年总统大选之前民主党和共和党之间的差异。
“The verdict is clear,” Mr. Obama said. “Middle-class economics works. Expanding opportunity works. And these policies will continue to work, as long as politics don’t get in the way.”
“结论相当明确，”奥巴马说。“中产阶级经济举措和扩大就业的行动有效果。只要没有政治阻碍，这些政策就会继续发挥效果。”
Mr. Obama did highlight some potential areas of collaboration with Republicans. He called on Congress to approve a business tax overhaul, the granting of authority to strike trade deals, and a major initiative to repair crumbling roads and bridges and to modernize the nation’s transportation infrastructure.
奥巴马也强调了一些可能与共和党开展合作的领域。他呼吁国会批准对营业税的重大修改，授予签订贸易协议的权力，采取重大举措来修复破损的道路和桥梁，实现全国交通基础设施的现代化。
But the president vowed to push forward with policies that have generated Republican opposition. He called for aggressive action on combating climate change and said he would not back down on changes to the nation’s immigration system. He repeated his support for new regulations on Internet providers and for overriding state laws that limit competition for high-speed service.
但奥巴马发誓要推行已经遭到共和党反对的政策。他呼吁采取积极的行动应对气候变化，并称自己不会放弃对移民制度的改革。他重申自己支持针对互联网供应商的新法规，支持废除限制高网速服务领域竞争的州法律。
Republicans dismissed the speech hours before it was delivered. House Speaker John A. Boehner circulated a document citing news commentators who questioned Mr. Obama’s sincerity and called his proposals, which the White House has circulated for the last three weeks, as fantasy. The document quoted Fox News calling Mr. Obama’s plans a “time machine for liberal dreams.”
在奥巴马发表国情咨文的数小时之前，共和党人就对此次演讲进行了驳斥。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)分发了一份引述新闻评论员观点的文件，这些评论员质疑奥巴马的诚意，称白宫在过去三周分发的提案不切实际。文件提到了Fox新闻频道(Fox News)的评论，称奥巴马的计划是“实现自由派梦想的时光机”。
In excerpts from the official Republican response, Senator Joni Ernst, the freshman Republican from Iowa, said that “Americans have been hurting, but when we demanded solutions, too often Washington responded with the same stale mind-set that led to failed policies like Obamacare.”
共和党正式回应的摘录显示，新任艾奥瓦州共和党参议员的琼妮·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)表示，“美国人不断受到伤害，但当我们要求政府拿出解决方案时，华盛顿方面都是以同样陈旧的思维做出回应，这种思维带来了“奥巴马医改”(Obamacare)等失败的政策。
Aides to Mr. Obama said that although there might be some areas of collaboration, the address was intended as a blueprint that Republicans accepted or rejected.
奥巴马的助手表示，虽然可能会有合作的领域，但这次演讲相当于发布了一份共和党人接受或拒绝的蓝图。
“He’s not going to trim his sails because some people, before he’s given the speech, said they don’t like his ideas,” a senior aide told reporters hours before the president stood in front of the joint session of Congress.
在奥巴马参加国会参众两院联席会议发表演讲的几个小时前，一名高级助手告诉记者，“有些人在他发表演讲前表示不喜欢他的想法，但他不会因为这些人而拉低船帆。”
Mr. Obama’s plans — which would offer free community college for millions of students, paid leave for workers and more generous government assistance for education, child care and retirement savings for the middle class — are to be financed in large part by $320 billion in tax increases over the next decade on higher income earners as well as a fee on large financial institutions.
奥巴马的计划——为数百万学生提供免费的社区大学教育，推动工人带薪休假，在教育、育儿及退休储蓄方面为中产阶级提供更慷慨的政府帮助——所需的资金大部分来自未来十年通过增加高收入者税款，对大型金融机构收费筹集到的3200亿美元（约合2万亿元人民币）资金。
The tax plan would raise the top capital gains tax rate to 28 percent, from 23.8 percent. It would also remove what amounts to a tax break for wealthy people who can afford to hold onto their investments until death. The proposal would repeal a provision that now allows individuals to pass on such assets without taxes ever being assessed on the capital gains that accrued during their lifetimes. Mr. Obama would also limit tax benefits for retirement savings for the wealthiest taxpayers, capping tax-preferred individual retirement accounts at about $3.4 million.
增税计划会将资本利得税的最高税率从23.8%提高至28%。该计划还会取消针对富人的税收优惠，不再让他们有条件保留投资，直到离世。该提议将废除现存条款——即允许个人将资产留给后代，不用为这些资产产生的资本收益缴纳税款。奥巴马还会限制针对富有纳税人退休储蓄的税收优惠，为低税率个人退休帐户设立340万美元的上限。
Mr. Obama also said he wanted to assess a new fee on the largest financial institutions — those with assets of $50 billion or more — based on the amount of risk they take on.
奥巴马还表示，他希望对规模最大的那些金融机构核定征收一项新费用：基于所承担的风险大小，面向资产超过500亿美元的机构收取。
Those proposals would pay for the community college initiative, which would cost $60 billion over a decade, as well as an array of new tax credits intended for the middle class. They include a new $500 credit for families with two working spouses; a subsidy of up to $2,500 annually to pay for college; and the tripling, to up to $3,000, of an existing tax break to pay for child care.
关于社区大学的计划会在未来10年耗资600亿美元，而这些提议将为该计划以及为中产阶级准备的一系列税收抵免新政策提供资金。比如，针对配偶双方均工作的家庭的500美元新税收抵免、每年至多2500美元的高等教育津贴，以及把当前的一项用于育儿的税收优惠政策的金额上限增加两倍，提高到3000美元。
“It’s time we stop treating child care as a side issue, or as a women’s issue,” Mr. Obama said, “and treat it like the national economic priority that it is for all of us.”
“现在我们不应该再把育儿当做次要议题，或者仅仅是女性议题，”奥巴马说，“而应该把它当作国家经济领域的重点，关乎我们所有人。”
Some of the tax incentives Mr. Obama proposed have found support among Republicans, but most of them have angrily dismissed the plan since the White House previewed it over the weekend, calling it a nonstarter that would reignite a bitter class-based battle without doing anything to fuel economic growth.
奥巴马提出的税收政策中，有一部分获得了共和党人的支持。但是，自从白宫于周末期间预先展示该计划以来，大多数共和党人愤怒地表示坚决反对，认为它毫不可取，将会引起激烈的基于社会阶层的斗争，而不会对拉动经济增长产生任何作用。
Mr. Obama waved aside those concerns and said enacting his proposals would represent bold action to improve the lives of all Americans by making sure that everyone has a chance to t receive the skills and opportunities that lead to economic success.
奥巴马把这些担忧搁置一旁，表示实施自己的这些计划将标志着旨在改善全体美国人生活的大胆举动。具体方式就是，保证每个人都有机会获得取得经济成功所必需的技能和机遇。
“That’s what middle-class economics is, the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share and everyone plays by the same set of rules,” Mr. Obama said.
“这就是中产阶级经济学的核心理念，当每个人都享有平等的机会、每个人都尽其责任、每个人都遵循同样的规则时，国家的表现才会最好，”奥巴马说。
The president argued for his recent decision to begin the process of normalizing relations with Cuba and to loosen trade and commercial restrictions with the island nation. Mr. Obama said the approach of walling off the United States from Cuba had been ineffective, and it was time to try a new strategy.
总统解释了自己近日做出的一项决定——开始与古巴的关系正常化进程，放松对这个岛国的贸易和商业限制。奥巴马说，在美国和古巴之间筑起一道墙的办法是无效的，现在到了尝试新策略的时候。
He argued for smarter breed of American leadership based on embracing diplomacy and military force.
他提出在包容的外交和军事力量基础上建立一种更明智的美国领导。
“We lead best when we combine military power with strong diplomacy, when we leverage our power with coalition building, when we don’t let our fears blind us to the opportunities that this new century presents,” Mr. Obama said.
“要最出色地领导，我们需要将军事力量和强大的外交合二为一，要用我们的力量做筹码去建立联盟，要避免被恐惧蒙蔽，让我们看不到新世纪带来的机遇，”奥巴马说。
As part of that approach, the president argued that the United States had an opportunity to strike a deal with Iran to prevent its development of a nuclear weapon, and made clear that he opposes legislation — backed by some Democrats and Republicans — to impose new sanctions before those talks have played out.
总统提出，作为这种策略的一部分，美国有望和伊朗达成协议，阻止该国进行核武器的开发。他明确表示，在这些谈判有结果之前，反对得到部分民主党人和共和党人支持的新一轮制裁立法提案。