The law establishing Obamacare was officially titled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. And the “affordable” bit wasn’t just about subsidizing premiums. It was also supposed to be about “bending the curve” — slowing the seemingly inexorable rise in health costs.
确立奥巴马医改的那部法律的正式名称是《患者保护与合理医疗费用法案》(Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act)。其中的“合理”部分并不只是与补贴保费有关，同时也应当“减缓增速”，也就是减缓医疗支出看似不可阻挡的上升势头。
Much of the Beltway establishment scoffed at the promise of cost savings. The prevalent attitude in Washington is that reform isn’t real unless the little people suffer; serious savings are supposed to come from things like raising the Medicare age (which the Congressional Budget Office recently concluded would, in fact, hardly save any money) and throwing millions of Americans off Medicaid. True, a 2011 letter signed by hundreds of health and labor economists pointed out that “the Affordable Care Act contains essentially every cost-containment provision policy analysts have considered effective in reducing the rate of medical spending.” But such expert views were largely ignored.
许多华盛顿的政治人士对节省开支的承诺嗤之以鼻。这里流行的观点是，除非小人物倒霉，就不算真正的改革；真正的节省要来自以下种类的举措，如提高联邦医疗保险(Medicare)适用年龄下限（实际上，国会预算办公室[Congressional Budget Office]最近得出结论，这样做几乎省不了几个钱），以及把数百万美国人踢出联邦医疗救助(Medicaid)项目。对，几百名医疗与劳动经济学家曾于2011年签署联名信，指出“在政策分析人士眼里能有效地降低医疗支出上升速率的措施上，《合理医疗费用法案》可谓是应有尽有。”不过，此类专家观点过去被基本忽略了。
So, how’s it going? The health exchanges are off to a famously rocky start, but many, though by no means all, of the cost-control measures have already kicked in. Has the curve been bent?
那么，现在的情况又如何呢？众所周知，医保市场的首秀磕磕碰碰。可是，许多控制开支的措施已经开始生效了，尽管绝不能说全都如此。价格上涨的曲线已在趋缓了吗？
The answer, amazingly, is yes. In fact, the slowdown in health costs has been dramatic.
令人惊讶的是，答案是肯定的。实际上，医疗开支的上升势头已急剧放缓。
O.K., the obligatory caveats. First of all, we don’t know how long the good news will last. Health costs in the United States slowed dramatically in the 1990s (although not this dramatically), probably thanks to the rise of health maintenance organizations, but cost growth picked up again after 2000. Second, we don’t know for sure how much of the good news is because of the Affordable Care Act.
好吧，我有义务先打打预防针。首先，我们不知道这一好消息能持续多久。美国医疗支出的增幅曾于上世纪90年代显著放缓（尽管不及目前的程度大），这很可能要归功于健康管理机构的兴起。不过，进入21世纪以后，开支的增长再次加快。其次，我们并不能确切地知道，好消息中有多少是因为《合理医疗费用法案》。
Still, the facts are striking. Since 2010, when the act was passed, real health spending per capita — that is, total spending adjusted for overall inflation and population growth — has risen less than a third as rapidly as its long-term average. Real spending per Medicare recipient hasn’t risen at all; real spending per Medicaid beneficiary has actually fallen slightly.
虽说如此，事实还是相当惊人。2010年该法案通过以来，真实人均医疗支出——也就是，经通胀和人口增长综合调整后的总开支的上升速率比长期均值的三分之一还小。联邦医疗保险受益者的真实人均开支完全没有增加；联邦医疗救助受益者的这一数据实际上还略有下滑。
What could account for this good news? One obvious answer is the still-depressed economy, which might be causing people to forgo expensive medical care. But this explanation turns out to be problematic in multiple ways. For one thing, the economy had stabilized by 2010, even if the recovery was fairly weak, yet health costs continued to slow. For another, it’s hard to see why a weak economy would have more effect in reducing the prices of health services than it has on overall inflation. Finally, Medicare spending shouldn’t be affected by the weak economy, yet it has slowed even more dramatically than private spending.
这样的好消息归功于什么呢？一个明显的答案是仍然萧条的经济，因为这或许会使人们放弃昂贵的医疗。然而，事实表明，这一解释存在多方面的缺陷。首先，尽管经济复苏相当缓慢，2010年时也已稳定下来，但医疗支出的上升趋势仍继续放缓。其次，难以想象疲软的经济对降低医疗费用的作用要超过对总体通胀的抑制。最后，联邦医疗保险按说不应受到经济疲软的影响，但它的放缓程度甚至比私人开销都显著。
A better story focuses on what appears to be a decline in some kinds of medical innovation — in particular, an absence of expensive new blockbuster drugs, even as existing drugs go off-patent and can be replaced with cheaper generic brands. This is a real phenomenon; it is, in fact, the main reason the Medicare drug program has ended up costing less than originally projected. But since drugs are only about 10 percent of health spending, it can only explain so much.
有一个更好的解释侧重的是，部分医疗创新似乎在回落，尤其是昂贵的重量级新药没有问世，现存的一些药物又专利过期，可被较为廉价的一般品牌代替。这的确是真实存在的现象；实际上，联邦医疗保险的药物项目之所以能比最初预期的开销低，主要原因就在这里。但是，药物仅占医疗支出的10%左右，因此也只能算是10%的理由。
So what aspects of Obamacare might be causing health costs to slow? One clear answer is the act’s reduction in Medicare “overpayments” — mainly a reduction in the subsidies to private insurers offering Medicare Advantage Plans, but also cuts in some provider payments. A less certain but likely source of savings involves changes in the way Medicare pays for services. The program now penalizes hospitals if many of their patients end up being readmitted soon after being released — an indicator of poor care — and readmission rates have, in fact, fallen substantially. Medicare is also encouraging a shift from fee-for-service, in which doctors and hospitals get paid by the procedure, to “accountable care,” in which health organizations get rewarded for overall success in improving care while controlling costs.
那么，奥巴马医改的哪些部分可能导致了医疗开支的上升势头放缓呢？一个明显的答案是，该法案减少了联邦医疗保险的“过度支付”——主要来自削减对提供医疗保险优良计划(Medicare Advantage Plans)的私营保险机构的补贴，同时也来自对支付给部分医疗服务机构的费用的削减。还有一个没那么明确但可能性也颇高的答案是，联邦医疗保险改革了向医疗服务机构支付费用的方式。现在，如果病人出院后不久就再次入院的比例过高——标志着医治不善——医院就会遭受惩罚。实际上，再入院率的确大幅下降了。联邦医疗保险如今还鼓励从按服务收费转变到“责任医疗”上。前者意味着医生及医院的收入与医疗程序挂钩，后者则会奖励那些在改善医疗与控制支出上取得整体成功的卫生机构。
Furthermore, there’s evidence that Medicare savings “spill over” to the rest of the health care system — that when Medicare manages to slow cost growth, private insurance gets cheaper, too.
而且，有证据表明，联邦医疗保险的节省“溢出”到了医保体系的其他部分。也就是说，当联邦医疗保险做到了延缓开支增长势头的时候，私人保险也变得更便宜了。
And the biggest savings may be yet to come. The Independent Payment Advisory Board, a panel with the power to impose cost-saving measures (subject to Congressional overrides) if Medicare spending grows above target, hasn’t yet been established, in part because of the near-certainty that any appointments to the board would be filibustered by Republicans yelling about “death panels.” Now that the filibuster has been reformed, the board can come into being.
还有，最大的节省或许尚未来临。独立支付顾问委员会(The Independent Payment Advisory Board)仍有待成立。该委员会有权在联邦医疗保险支出的增幅超出目标的时候实施节约措施（国会有权推翻），而它没有成立的部分原因在于，几乎可以肯定，委员会的任何任命都会遭遇高呼“死亡陪审团”的共和党人的拖延战术。现在，这种战术受到了限制，委员会的建立也就指日可待了。
The news on health costs is, in short, remarkably good. You won’t hear much about this good news until and unless the Obamacare website gets fixed. But under the surface, health reform is starting to look like a bigger success than even its most ardent advocates expected.
简而言之，医疗支出方面的消息相当不错。当然，医保网站的问题解决之前，这样的好消息不大会被听到，也只有到那时，它才会传播开来。不过，透过表面，医改已开始显现出成功的迹象，其程度，甚至超过了最热烈的支持者们的预期。