The odds are that you think President Obama’s foreign policy is a failure.
你可能觉得奥巴马总统的外交政策是失败的。
That’s the scathing consensus forming, with just 36 percent of Americans approving of Obama’s foreign policy in a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week. Foreign policy used to be a source of strength for the president, and now it’s dragging him down — and probably other Democrats with him.
这种苛刻的共识正在形成：《纽约时报》/CBS新闻频道(CBS News)本周发布的民调显示，只有36%的美国人认可奥巴马的外交政策。外交政策曾经为奥巴马赢得不少支持，而现在却成了他的拖累——也许还连累了一些支持他的民主党人。
Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, warns that Obama “has weakened the national security posture of the United States.” Trent Franks, a Republican member of the House from Arizona, cites foreign policy to suggest that Obama is “the most inept president we have ever had.”
参议院少数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)警告说，奥巴马“已经削弱了美国国家安全态势”，来自亚利桑那州的共和党众议员特伦特·弗兰克斯(Trent Franks)提及外交政策时表示，称奥巴马是“我们曾经有过的最不称职的总统”。
Obama is no Messiah, but this emerging narrative about a failed foreign policy is absurdly harsh. Look at three issues where Republicans have been unfairly jabbing him with pitchforks:
奥巴马不是救世主，但是这种正在冒头的“外交政策失败论”也太吹毛求疵了。共和党人在以下三个问题上，对他发起了不公平的猛烈抨击：
Trading five Taliban prisoners for Bowe Bergdahl was unpopular with the public, and the Obama administration may have made the trade in the incorrect belief that Bergdahl was near death. Then again, here’s an American soldier who spent five years in Taliban custody, some of that reportedly in a cage after trying to escape. If we make heroic efforts to bring back American corpses, how can we begrudge efforts to bring back a soldier who is still alive?
第一，用五名囚犯交换鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)的做法不招公众喜欢，奥巴马政府可能是在错误地以为贝里达尔濒临死亡的情况下做了这笔交易。但这名士兵已遭塔利班拘押五年之久，据说在他试图逃跑后，有一段时间被关在一个笼子里。如果我们可以为了运回美国士兵的遗体而付出巨大努力，那么为了让一个仍然在世的士兵回国，我们怎么能吝惜努力呢？
Sure, there are risks. But the five Taliban prisoners have probably aged out of field combat, and, if they return to Afghanistan after their year in Qatar, they would likely have trouble finding American targets because, by then, the United States will no longer be engaged in combat.
当然，风险是存在的。但是这五名塔利班囚犯年龄可能已经太老，无法再上战场，而且，就算他们在卡塔尔待满一年之后重返阿富汗，要找到美国士兵开打也很困难，因为到那时，美军已经撤走了。
More broadly, there’s nothing wrong with negotiating with the Taliban. The blunt truth is that the only way to end the fighting in Afghanistan is a negotiated peace deal involving the Taliban, and maybe this deal can be a step along that journey.
更广泛地说，与塔利班进行谈判也没有什么错。赤裸裸的现实是，要结束在阿富汗的战斗，唯一的途径就是谈判达成一个涉及塔利班的和平协议，而这笔交易也许就是这条路上前进的一步。
Russian aggression in Ukraine was infuriating, but it’s petty Washington politics to see it as emanating from Obama weakness. After all, President George W. Bush was the most trigger-happy of recent presidents, and he couldn’t prevent Russia from invading Georgia in 2008 and helping carve off two breakaway republics.
俄罗斯对乌克兰的侵略令人愤慨，但只有华盛顿的无聊政客，才会把这看成是奥巴马的软弱导致的结果。毕竟，作为近年来最好战的总统，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在2008年时也未能有所作为。当时，俄罗斯入侵格鲁吉亚，并帮助那里的两个加盟共和国分离了出去。
Obama diplomacy appears to have worked better than military force would have. Contrary to early expectations, Russia did not seize southeastern Ukraine along with Crimea, and President Vladimir Putin of Russia this week called on Parliament to rescind permission to invade Ukraine. Be wary, but let’s hope the Bear is backing down.
和采取军事行动相比，奥巴马的外交行动似乎效果更好。不同于早期的预计，俄罗斯并没有像吞并克里米亚一样吞并乌克兰东南部地区，而且俄罗斯总统普京本周还呼吁议会撤销入侵乌克兰的授权。不要轻信这头熊，但我们希望它确实在后退。
The debacle in Iraq is a political and humanitarian catastrophe, but it’s a little rich for neocons to blame Obama after they created the mess in the first place. Obama was unengaged on Iraq and Syria, but it’s not clear that even if he had been engaged the outcome would have been different.
伊拉克的溃败既是政治灾难，也是人道主义灾难，但新保守派为此指责奥巴马实在有些过分，因为一团糟的局势本来就是他们自己搞出来的。奥巴马之前没有插手伊拉克和叙利亚危机，但即使他插了手，结果会有什么不同，目前也说不清楚。
Suppose Obama had kept 10,000 troops in Iraq as his critics wish. Some would have been killed; others injured. We would have spent another $50 billion or so in the Iraqi sands (that’s more than 25 times what Obama requested to start universal prekindergarten, but Congress balks at the expense). And Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki might have felt even less need to keep Sunni tribes on his side. Would all this really have been the best use of American lives and treasure?
假设奥巴马当初像批评者希望的那样，在伊拉克保留了1万名美军。那么，有些人可能已经牺牲，还有一些人会受伤。我们在伊拉克的花费会再多出约500亿美元（这是奥巴马推行全民学前教育所需资金的25倍还多，但国会却在阻挠那笔花销）。而伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)可能会感到，让逊尼派部落站在自己这边已没有太大必要。难道这样，美国人付出的生命和财富代价就值得吗？
Yes, Obama has made his share of mistakes, especially in Syria, where he doesn’t seem to have much of a policy at all. Partly balancing that, he helped to defuse the Syrian chemical weapons threat.
是的，奥巴马犯了不少错误，尤其是在叙利亚问题上，他似乎都没有一个清晰的政策。奥巴马帮助化解了叙利亚的化武威胁，这一定程度上也是为弥补以前的错误。
Look, the world is a minefield. President Clinton was very successful internationally, yet he bungled an inherited operation in Somalia, delayed too long on Bosnia, missed the Rwanda genocide and muffed the beginning of the Asian financial crisis — and all that happened during a particularly skillful administration.
看，这世界就是个雷区。克林顿总统在国际上非常成功，但他搞砸了前任留下的索马里军事行动，在波黑问题上耽搁了太长时间，对卢旺达种族大屠杀未采取任何行动，在亚洲金融危机之初失误频频——这一切都发生在一个特别能干的政府任内。
As for former Vice President Dick Cheney complaining about Obama’s foreign policy, that’s a bit like the old definition of chutzpah: killing your parents and then pleading for mercy because you’re an orphan. In the Bush/Cheney years, we lost thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi lives, we became mired in Afghanistan, Iran vastly expanded the number of centrifuges in its nuclear program, and North Korea expanded its arsenal of nuclear weapons. And much of the world came to despise us.
至于前副总统迪克·切尼对奥巴马外交政策的抱怨，则有点像“厚颜无耻”这个词的原始定义：杀死父母之后，再以自己是孤儿为由请求宽恕。在布什/切尼执政的岁月，数以千计的美国人和数以十万计的伊拉克人丢掉了性命，我们在阿富汗深陷困境，伊朗在核项目中大大增加了离心机数量，朝鲜扩充了核武库。从那时起，世界上的很多人开始鄙视我们。
Blowing things up is often satisfying, and Obama’s penchant for muddling along instead, with restraint, is hurting him politically. But that’s our weakness more than his. Obama’s foreign policy is far more deft — and less dangerous — than the public thinks, and he doesn’t deserve the harsh assessments. If there’s one thing we should have learned in the Bush/Cheney years, it’s that swagger and invasion are overrated as foreign policy instruments.
把事情搞大常常会带来满足感，而奥巴马对节制地得过且过的偏爱，却正在伤害他的政治声誉。但这更多是我们的软弱，而不是他的。奥巴马的外交政策比公众认为的要机敏得多，也不那么危险，他不应该受到这样苛刻的评价。如果说我们应该在布什/切尼政府中学到一件事，那就是威吓和干预作为外交政策工具的价值都被高估了。