TOKYO — With President Obama’s trade agenda in jeopardy in Congress, the nations of Asia are weighing the potential impact of a failed deal on local jobs and exports, but also something else: American influence in the region.
东京——奥巴马总统的贸易议程在国会形势危险，此时亚洲国家正在权衡协议半途而废可能会对各国的就业和出口，以及美国在该地区的影响力造成的影响。
For many here, the defeat of a sweeping trade and investment pact being negotiated between the United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations would weaken Washington’s already strained claim to leadership in Asia and undermine a commitment by Mr. Obama to devote more attention and resources to a group of countries contending with the growing power of China.
美国正在就一项广泛的贸易和投资协定，同其他11个环太平洋国家谈判。对这里的很多人来说，该协定的失败会削弱华盛顿在亚洲本已受损的领导地位。许多国家正在与实力日益增强的中国开展竞争，奥巴马承诺会向它们倾注更多的关注和资源，协定的失败也会破坏奥巴马的这一诺言。
Congress rejected legislation on Friday that is crucial to completing the trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, throwing its future — and its potential to bind together countries friendly to American interests — in doubt.
国会上周五驳回了一项对于敲定该贸易协议，即跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）至关重要的立法。这让人们对协定的未来——以及对该协议可以把支持美国利益的国家凝聚起来的潜力——产生了怀疑。
“If this collapses, Pacific Rim countries will be aghast,” said Shunpei Takemori, a professor at Keio University in Japan, the largest economy in the would-be trade zone after the United States. “China is pushing, and if the U.S. just stands aside, it would be a tragedy.”
“如果协议失败，环太平洋国家会感到惊恐，”日本庆应义塾大学(Keio University)教授竹森俊平(Shunpei Takemori)说。“中国正在推进，如果美国只袖手旁观，事情会成为一场悲剧。”在计划成立的贸易区中，日本将是除美国之外的最大经济体。
The White House and its Republican free-trade allies in Congress are searching for ways to revive a bill that would extend aid to workers displaced by global trade agreements. By rejecting that measure on Friday, Mr. Obama’s fellow Democrats in the House effectively scuttled legislation granting him the power to negotiate trade deals that cannot be amended or filibustered by Congress.
白宫及国会中支持自由贸易的共和党盟友，正在想办法重新推动一项法案。该法案将向因全球贸易协议而被取代的工人提供援助，而奥巴马在众议院的民主党同僚周五否决了这项法案。这实际上破坏了向奥巴马授予贸易协定谈判权的一项立法举措，根据该项立法，国会不能就总统签订的贸易协定进行修订或采取拖延战术。
Without such trade promotion authority, analysts in the region said, it may be impossible for Mr. Obama to persuade governments to make the concessions needed to close a deal that would affect 40 percent of the global economy.
该地区的分析人士称，没有这种贸易促进权，奥巴马可能无法说服各国政府做出达成协议所需的让步。该协议将影响全球经济总量的40%。
The death of the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be a new setback for American economic diplomacy in Asia after a failed attempt to thwart a Chinese state-run infrastructure investment fund that some see as a competitor to American-dominated institutions like the World Bank. The Obama administration has also struggled to respond to blunter assertions of Chinese power, such as Beijing’s efforts to strengthen its territorial claims by building islands out of reefs in the South China Sea.
如果TPP胎死腹中，美国在亚洲的经济外交就会遇到新的挫折。此前，中国官方设立一个基础设施投资基金时，美国试图阻挠却以失败告终。一些人认为，该基金是世界银行(World Bank)等以美国为主导的机构的竞争对手。同时，对于中国更露骨地展示实力的举动，如通过在南海的岛礁上修建岛屿来强化其领土主张，奥巴马政府也无力做出回应。
“If you don’t do this deal, what are your levers of power?” Singapore’s foreign minister, K. Shanmugam, said in Washington on Monday. “The choice is a very stark one: Do you want to be part of the region, or do you want to be out of the region?”
“如果达不成这项协议，你们展示实力的筹码是什么？”新加坡外长尚穆根(K. Shanmugam)周一在华盛顿说。“选择非常残酷：是想成为该地区的一部分，还是想离开该地区？”
He argued that “trade is strategy” and that without economic leverage, the United States was left with only military clout in Asia, “and that’s not the lever you want to use.”
他称“贸易就是战略”，没了经济影响力，美国在亚洲就只剩军事影响了，而“那并不是你们想用的手段”。
“It’s absolutely vital to get it done,” he added, referring to the bill’s passage.
他接着说，“做成这件事绝对至关重要。”他指的是通过该法案。
In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has presented the imperiled trade pact as key to his nation’s ambitions, and he has pushed back with unusual vigor for a Japanese leader against the country’s influential farm lobby, which has long opposed lower barriers to imports of rice and other agricultural products. He has made the case that Japan needs trade liberalization to bolster its stagnant economy, but his arguments have been as much about diplomacy as economics.
在日本，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)称这个陷入困局的贸易协定是日本大展宏图的关键。他以日本领导人少见的顽强姿态，顶住了该国农业游说团体的压力。这些游说团体颇具影响力，长期以来一直反对减少大米及其他农产品的进口壁垒。安倍晋三还提出，日本需要用贸易自由化来提振其停滞的经济，但他的论述不仅涉及经济，还涉及外交。
“It is also about our security,” he said of the proposed trade deal in a speech during a joint session of Congress in April. “Long term, its strategic value is awesome.”
“这也关乎于我们的安全，”今年4月他在国会的一场联席会议上演讲时，谈到了这个贸易协定。“长期来看，它有非常高的战略价值。”
China is conspicuously absent from the list of 12 countries negotiating the agreement. The group comprises Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Mexico, New Zealand and Peru, as well as Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, the United States and Vietnam. But the Chinese government has taken pains not to criticize the deal, and has even suggested it may eventually ask to join.
值得注意的是，参与谈判的12个国家中没有中国。这些国家包括澳大利亚、文莱、加拿大、智利、墨西哥、新西兰和秘鲁，还有日本、马来西亚、新加坡、美国和越南。但是，中国政府努力克制，没有对协定提出批评，甚至暗示最终可能会请求加入。
For now, the pact’s wide-ranging rules on intellectual property, investor protections and workers’ rights are seen as a step too far for the ruling Communist Party.
协定对知识产权、投资者保护和劳工权益做出了广泛的规定，目前看来，这些要求对执政的中国共产党过于严苛了。
“China knows that T.P.P. is one of the pillars of U.S. rebalancing strategy in the Asia Pacific, and it is trying to create a club that excludes China,” said Song Guoyou, a professor at the Center for American Studies in Fudan University in Shanghai. The collapse of the deal, he added, would be “a huge blow to Obama’s effort to build an integrated trade system” in the Asia-Pacific region.
“中国知道TPP是美国在亚太地区再平衡战略的支柱之一，它试图建立一个俱乐部，将中国排除在外，”复旦大学美国研究中心教授宋国友说。他表示，该协定如果失败，“奥巴马在亚太地区打造一体化贸易体系的计划将会遭受重挫。”
Professor Song said the United States should work with China to offer a “more ambitious and more inclusive” agreement, and he held up as an alternative the separate, less comprehensive regional trade deal that China is negotiating with countries in Southeast Asia as well as Japan, South Korea and other nations.
宋国友说，美国应与中国合作，达成一个“更宏大、更包容”的协议。他谈到，中国正在与东南亚国家以及日本、韩国等磋商的一个单独的、不太全面的区域贸易协议就是一个替代方案。
Negotiations over that pact could gain momentum if the agreement fails, as could potential bilateral deals, including one proposed between Japan and the European Union that Tokyo deferred while it focused on the trade deal.
如果TPP谈判无法成功，那么这个协议可能就会得到推动，一些潜在的双边协定可能也会如此，其中包括日本和欧盟之间拟议的一项协议。东京推迟了该协议的磋商，专注在TPP贸易协定上。
South Korea, a crucial American ally and one of China’s top trading partners, has expressed interest in joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks, but its enthusiasm has been muted. Some have accused the government of trying to use the Chinese proposal to secure better terms from the United States. A bilateral trade agreement with the United States that came into force in 2012 set off large, prolonged protests, and the South Korean government has been wary of entering another grueling round of politically charged trade talks with Washington.
韩国是美国的重要盟友，也是中国的最大贸易伙伴之一。韩国对于加入TPP谈判表达过兴趣，但它的积极性已经遭受了打击。有人指责韩国政府试图利用中国的提议，来向美国索取更好的条件。2012年生效的一个韩美双边贸易协定，引发了持续很久的大规模抗议，因此对于与华盛顿开展另一轮艰苦卓绝、政治影响深远的贸易谈判，韩国政府一直持谨慎态度。
In terms of tangible economic benefits, the stakes are higher for some nations than for others. Countries like Australia and Singapore already have highly open markets and bilateral trade deals with many of their important trading partners, meaning the potential for additional gains is relatively small, experts said.
至于该协定可以提供多少切实的经济利益，不同国家受益的程度大小有别。专家表示，澳大利亚和新加坡等国已经拥有高度开放的市场，也已经与很多重要贸易伙伴达成了双边贸易协议，这意味着它们从该协定中获得额外收益的可能性比较小。
At the other extreme is Vietnam, the only Communist country in the group and perhaps its most incongruous member. Vietnam has played an outsize role in the debate over the deal in the United States, with Mr. Obama arguing that the Vietnamese government would be required to improve worker safety and allow the establishment of independent labor unions, something it currently forbids. Opponents of the pact countered that provisions on labor standards in trade deals were too difficult to enforce to make a difference.
另一个极端是越南，这些国家中唯一由共产党执政的国家，或许也是其中最不协调的成员。在美国对协定进行的辩论中，越南扮演了格外重要的角色。奥巴马表示，该协定将会要求越南政府改善工人的安全保障，并允许建立独立工会，这目前是遭到禁止的。该协定的反对者则认为，贸易协定在劳工标准方面的规定太难以执行，无法产生效果。