HAVANA — President Obama said Monday that he was confident the trade embargo on Cuba would end, a move that President Raul Castro, standing beside him, endorsed.
哈瓦那——奥巴马总统周一表示，他相信对古巴的贸易禁运会结束。站在他身旁的古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raul Castro)对此表示支持。
“What we did for 50 years did not serve our interests or the interests of the Cuban people,” Mr. Obama said. “We continue to have serious differences, including on democracy and human rights,” he said, noting that if Cuba made changes on those fronts it would help persuade Congress to lift the embargo.
“我们过去50年的做法不符合我们的利益，也不符合古巴人民的利益，”奥巴马说。“我们依然存在严重的分歧，包括在民主和人权问题上，”他说。奥巴马指出，如果古巴在这些领域做出改变，将有助于说服国会解除禁运。
Mr. Obama and Mr. Castro spoke to reporters and took questions Monday afternoon after their historic meeting. Mr. Castro had not done so before, but the American side had been eager for him to permit questions this time.
周一下午，在历史性的会面结束后，奥巴马和卡斯特罗向记者发表讲话并接受提问。卡斯特罗以前没这么做过，但这一次，美方热切期望他允许提问。
That led to a few tense moments. In a response to a question about the existence of political prisoners in Cuba, Mr. Castro claimed there were none. “Give me a list of political prisoners and I will release them,” he said.
这导致紧张场面几度出现。在回答一个关于政治犯的问题时，卡斯特罗声称古巴没有政治犯。“给我一个政治犯名单，我就放人，”他说。
With this visit, both men have ventured into diplomatic territory that had eluded their predecessors, amid mutual mistrust dating from Theodore Roosevelt’s charge up San Juan Hill to the Cuban missile crisis and beyond. Profound differences still divide the two nations economically and politically, including the United States trade embargo and Cuban human rights issues.
对于此次访问，双方领导人都冒险进入了被前任领导人避开的政治领域。两国间的不信任可以追溯到西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)冲上圣胡安山、古巴导弹危机，以及其他事件。深层次的分歧依然使两国在经济和政治上相互隔离，包括美国的贸易禁运和古巴的人权问题。
American officials said Mr. Obama had planned to raise the issue of Cuba’s repressive tactics, on display in the days leading up to the president’s visit as the government detained dissidents who could cause a diversion from the official script.
美国官员称奥巴马打算提及古巴专制的统治手段。在奥巴马访问古巴的前几天，古巴政府羁押了一些可能会干扰官方口径的异见人士。这个问题从羁押事件中就可见一斑。
The Cubans, accustomed to exerting tight control over everything that happens on the island, have spent weeks admonishing citizens against disrupting Mr. Obama’s visit or questioning government authority during the trip.
习惯了严格控岛上一切事物的古巴方面，用了数周时间劝阻民众不要扰乱奥巴马的访问，不要在奥巴马访问期间质疑政府的权威。
In a colorful welcome ceremony at the Palace of the Revolution before the talks began, Mr. Obama and Mr. Castro shook hands warmly before they strolled amicably past an honor guard and assembled dignitaries.
会谈开始前，古巴在革命宫(Palace of the Revolution)举行了欢迎仪式，现场五彩缤纷。奥巴马和卡斯特罗热情握手后，友好地检阅仪仗队和聚集在一起的政要。
Mr. Obama appeared to make a point of walking over to the Cuban military band leader as the ceremony concluded to congratulate him on its performance of “The Star-Spangled Banner” — a national anthem that is unlikely to be in its repertoire.
欢迎仪式结束时，奥巴马似乎表明了态度。他走到古巴军乐队指挥的跟前，称赞乐队演奏美国国歌《星条旗永不落》(The Star-Spangled Banner)的水平。这首歌恐怕并不是这支乐队的常规曲目。
“Good job,” Mr. Obama was overheard saying.
有人听到奥巴马说，“演奏得很好。”
Mr. Obama also shook hands with an array of American and Cuban officials, who were lined up on opposite sides of the long, narrow room.
在那间狭长的房间里，美国和古巴的一众官员分两边一字排开。奥巴马与他们一一握手。
The choreography of Monday’s session has preoccupied the American and Cuban governments for weeks. Both are determined to showcase a new dynamic of friendship and engagement while insisting they have conceded none of their principles.
数周来，美国和古巴两国政府一直在专注地安排周一的活动。双方都决心，既要展现新的友谊和交流动态，又要坚持表明各自都未放弃任何原则。
Monday’s session was the presidents’ third face-to-face meeting since the new policy was announced in December 2014.
周一是两国总统自2014年12月宣布新政策以来，第三次进行面对面的会晤。
They met and shook hands in April 2015 at a summit meeting of Western Hemisphere nations in Panama City, and they spoke in September on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, when Mr. Obama told Mr. Castro he would like to visit this year if the conditions were right.
2015年4月在巴拿马城参加一场西半球国家峰会时，两人会面握手。同年9月，两人再次在联合国大会的间隙举行会谈。会谈期间，奥巴马对卡斯特罗表示，如果条件合适，他愿在今年访问古巴。
In Havana on Monday, many Cubans still seemed uncertain about whether they had permission to try to see Mr. Obama, never mind express a point of view. Cubans all over the city seemed to be constantly asking where Mr. Obama would be — and then not going.
周一当天在哈瓦那，很多人似乎依然不确定政府是否会允许他们去看一眼奥巴马，更别说表达观点了。全哈瓦那的人似乎都在不停地问，奥巴马可能会去哪里——但问过以后却并不会真的去。
Outside the venue at the edge of Old Havana where the president was scheduled to meet with American business leaders and Cuban entrepreneurs in the afternoon, most of the people waiting for his arrival were foreign tourists.
奥巴马定于下午在哈瓦那老城边上，会见美国企业领袖和古巴企业家。在会见场地外面，等着奥巴马到来的人，大部分是外国游客。
When asked questions about Mr. Obama’s visit, several Cubans outside a small store with a view of the location turned away without saying a word. State security agents — some uniformed, others wearing jeans and mirrored sunglasses — simply watched and listened.
在一家能看到那里的小店外面，被问到有关奥巴马来访的问题时，几个古巴人一言不发地把脸扭了过去。国家安全特工只是看着，听着，他们一些人穿着制服，另一些人则穿着牛仔裤，戴着太阳镜。
A few blocks away, Cubans and foreigners found themselves running into American lawmakers and V.I.P.s touring the city.
几个街区外，古巴民众和外国人发现自己碰到了在哈瓦那参观的美国议员和贵宾。
Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont was spotted by the cathedral; Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York was also easy to find. Walking the streets with a single aide, wearing a seersucker suit and a Tampa Bay Rays baseball cap, Mr. Rangel said he could not have been happier. He spent decades in Congress working to end the Cuban embargo.
有人在大教堂旁边发现了佛蒙特州参议员帕特里克·J·莱希(Patrick J. Leahy)。纽约州众议员查尔斯·B·兰盖尔(Charles B. Rangel)也很好找。走在大街上的他只带了一个助手，穿着一身泡泡纱面料的衣服，戴着一顶坦帕湾光芒队(Tampa Bay Rays)的棒球帽。兰盖尔说自己非常高兴。在国会任职的数十年里，他一直致力于结束对古巴的贸易禁运。
He said he was confident that restored relations would yield benefits for Cubans and Americans.
他说他相信恢复外交关系会给古巴和美国民众带来好处。
”I never knew we could bring such a crack in the wall,” he said. “We’re creating the right conditions for when change really comes.”
“以前从来没想过我们能取得这么大的进展，”他说。“我们正在创造适当的条件，迎接变革的到来。”