WASHINGTON — BARACK OBAMA is tangoing into history, and there’s something perfect about that.
华盛顿——贝拉克·奥巴马正跳着探戈退出历史舞台。从某种意义上说，这种做法十分适合他。
The tango has been described as vertical solitude. And this president is all about vertical solitude.
探戈一直被描述为一种直上直下的孤独舞蹈。这位总统则完全是直上直下、孑然一身的代名词。
Republicans are frothing and comics are tweaking about the baseball diplomacy in Cuba and the tango diplomacy in Argentina, juxtaposed with the terrorist attack and manhunt in Brussels.
他在古巴搞的棒球外交和在阿根廷搞的探戈外交，恰好遭遇布鲁塞尔的恐怖袭击及大搜捕。此事激起了共和党人的怒火，还沦为漫画作者编派的对象。
Comedy Central’s Larry Wilmore mocked Obama’s “spring break world tour.” He chided the president for doing the wave with Raúl Castro and remarked on Obama’s sinuous, take-charge tango partner. “O.K., Republicans, now he’s leading from behind,” Wilmore said. Rush Limbaugh accused the president of flamenco dancing and “doing the tango with women not even his wife.”
喜剧中心(Comedy Central)的拉里·威尔莫(Larry Wilmore)戏谑，这是奥巴马的“春假世界巡演”。他谴责了总统和劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)一起做人浪，评论了总统的那位身形袅娜、起主导作用的探戈舞伴。“对，共和党人，他正在后方发挥领导作用，”威尔莫说。拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)指责奥巴马大跳弗拉门戈舞，而且“跟他跳探戈的女人甚至不是他妻子”。
Yes, that outrageous sin of being polite to your foreign hosts at a state dinner.
没错，在国宴上对外国的东道主彬彬有礼是十恶不赦的罪过。
Barack Obama started off as a man self-consciously alone on stage and that’s how he is exiting. He is, for better and worse, too cool for school. His identity is defined by his desire to rise above the fray. Unfortunately, he is in politics, which is the fray.
上台伊始，贝拉克·奥巴马就是一个刻意追求孤单的人。现在要下台了，他还是这样。不管好坏，他自命不凡。他最重要的特点是渴望超越争斗。但遗憾的是，他身处政坛。政治本身就意味着争斗。
Obama shot to prominence at the 2004 Democratic National Convention with a rousing speech about boldly moving past our barriers — red and blue, black and white. But those divisions are more pronounced than ever. So now he brings people together and gets things done when he can, like importing modernity to Cuba and inveigling China on climate change.
2004年，奥巴马在民主党全国大会上发表了一番激动人心的演讲，一举成名。他在讲话中呼吁大胆越过各种障碍，包括红蓝之间的政党之争，以及黑白之间的种族矛盾。但眼下，这些分歧比任何时候都更显著。因此，他如今选择在能力范围内把人团结在一起，完成一些事情，比如向古巴输出现代化并在气候变化问题上诱导中国采取行动。
The president has a bristling resistance to what he sees as cheap emotion. (See: flag pin, 2008.) That has led him, time after time, to respond belatedly or bloodlessly in moments when Americans are alarmed, wanting solace and solutions.
奥巴马总统强烈排斥他眼中的那些肤浅情感。（参见2008年的国旗胸针事件。）这导致的后果是，在美国人感到惊慌，想要得到安慰和解决方案之时，他一次又一次地做出姗姗来迟或缺乏激情的回应。
The Christmas bomber; the BP oil spill; James Foley beheaded by ISIS, the Paris attacks, the San Bernardino attacks, and now Brussels, which he discussed rationally and briefly with ESPN at the baseball game, wearing cool $485 Oliver Peoples sunglasses beside a cool Derek Jeter.
奥巴马治下发生了圣诞节炸弹事件、BP漏油事件、詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)被伊斯兰国(ISIS)斩首、巴黎袭击、圣贝纳迪诺袭击，以及现在的布鲁塞尔袭击。在那场棒球比赛现场，奥巴马就布鲁塞尔事件与ESPN进行了短暂的理性讨论。当时，他戴着售价485美元的奥利弗皮普尔斯(Oliver Peoples)品牌的炫酷太阳镜，身旁是酷酷的明星球员德瑞克·基特(Derek Jeter)。
He feels that fanatics who are not an existential threat to us want to disrupt our lives and we should not let them; that more people die slipping in their bathtubs than in terrorist attacks.
他觉得，不威胁我们存亡的那部分极端分子一心想扰乱我们的生活，我们不应该让他们得逞。他还认为，在浴缸里摔倒溺亡的人，比死于恐怖袭击的人更多。
That anthropological detachment — the failure to viscerally connect and vigorously persuade, the lip-curling at needy lawmakers, jittery Americans or anyone else who does not see things as he does — may keep him from being a Mount Rushmore president.
他的这种对人的冷漠——不能发自内心地理解他人并积极予以说服，对那些贫穷的议员、不安的美国民众或任何与他意见相左的人撇嘴——大概会导致他无法跻身在拉什莫尔山上有自己雕像的伟大总统之列。
Obama went to a baseball game with Raúl Castro just 15 months into their working relationship. It took him six years, with his trade bill — one of his top foreign policy initiatives — on the line, to go to the congressional baseball game, toting some White House home brew.
才建立工作关系15个月，奥巴马便和劳尔·卡斯特罗一同观看棒球比赛。奥巴马上台六年后才首次带着一些白宫自酿的啤酒观看国会棒球赛。而当时的背景是，贸易法案——他极为重视的一项外交议题——处境危险。
If he were up for re-election, the president probably would have forced himself to appear more emotionally responsive to the terrorist attacks, urged on by his staff.
如果要谋求连任，奥巴马总统可能会在幕僚的力劝之下，强迫自己对恐怖袭击表现出更富含感情的回应。
But he clearly feels liberated in the homestretch, relishing what he can do alone, venting privately about world leaders, lawmakers and pundits who have not risen to his lofty standards. Once he read about F.D.R.’s legislative prowess. Lately, he has been buffing up on Teddy Roosevelt blowing a raspberry at Congress and expanding executive power.
但他显然觉得，在执政末期自己解放了。他享受着能孤身做到的事情，并在私下里发泄对未能达到他的高标准的世界领导人、议员和专家的不满。他曾经阅读的是有关富兰克林·德拉诺·罗斯福在立法方面如何运用高超技巧的文章。最近，他却一直在效仿泰迪·罗斯福，对国会冷嘲热讽的同时扩大行政权。
I traveled with the president to Havana to watch as he did the logical thing, bypassing the inane and antiquated congressional embargo to help move Cuba past its sepia arrested development.
这一次，我随奥巴马一同出访哈瓦那，亲眼看着他完成这件遵从理性的事情：避开国会空洞过时的贸易禁运，帮助古巴走出它严重受阻的过时的发展阶段。
There was a muted excitement in repressed Havana around the low-risk trip, a precursor to opening the Cuba wing in the Obama presidential library.
在受到压抑的哈瓦那，这场低风险的访问引发了低调的兴奋。可以想见，奥巴马的总统图书馆里会开设古巴馆。
Obama, with his elegant family along, deftly maneuvered in the chaos of communism, charming the 84-year-old Raúl Castro even though the White House did not know which bits of historic pageantry the Cuban would play along with.
和举止高雅的家人一道，奥巴马在共产主义的混乱中娴熟地挥洒自我，试图迷住84岁的劳尔·卡斯特罗。不过白宫并不知道，古巴方面会安排哪些具有历史象征意义的活动。
After months of intense negotiations, the dictator told the president at the last minute that he would do a news conference — the first anyone could remember in Cuba. But clearly Castro had not been briefed that the two American journalists’ multipart questions would include tart ones for him. Standing at a lectern flanked by plush burgundy drapes with “RP” embossed in gold on them in the Revolutionary Palace — which sounds like an oxymoron — Castro bridled when Andrea Mitchell asked him about human rights. Afterward, Latin correspondents noted that if Mitchell were not American, she would be spending the afternoon in jail.
在进行了数月紧张谈判后，身为独裁者的卡斯特罗在最后一刻对奥巴马总统表示，他会举行一场新闻发布会。这在古巴近些年的历史上属于首次。但显然，没人告诉卡斯特罗，两名美国记者提出的分为几部分的问题，会包括他认为尖酸刻薄的内容。在革命宫(Revolutionary Palace)里，发言台的两侧是紫红色的长毛绒布帘，上面装饰着浮凸的金色“RP”字样。其实，“革命宫”这种称谓听起来像是矛盾修辞。当安德烈娅·米切尔(Andrea Mitchell)问到人权问题时，站在台上的卡斯特罗动怒了。后来，拉美记者指出，如果不是美国人，米切尔当天下午便进监狱了。
When the Cubans bobbled a photo op at the José Martí memorial in Revolutionary Square, President Obama took over and directed the group to its picture in front of a Che Guevara mural.
当古方人员在革命广场上的何塞·马蒂(José Martí)纪念碑旁拍照出现失误时，奥巴马接过了这项任务，并指挥那群人去一幅画着切·格瓦拉(Che Guevara)的壁画前面拍了一张照片。
He was a long way from 2008, when a Fox TV channel in Houston blew up a story about an Obama volunteer who had the unpatriotic temerity to have a Cuban flag with a picture of Che at her desk.
如今的奥巴马，已与2008年时大不相同。当时，休斯顿的一个Fox电视频道(Fox TV)爆出，一名支持奥巴马的志愿者不爱国，行事鲁莽，在自己桌上放着一面印有切·格瓦拉照片的古巴旗帜。
Conservatives then were trying to smear Obama as a socialist. Now many Democratic voters, especially young ones, are disappointed that Obama wasn’t liberal enough and are gravitating toward a real socialist rather than the president’s preferred successor.
那时，保守派试图把他抹黑成社会主义者。如今，很多民主党选民，特别是年轻选民，对奥巴马不够自由派感到失望，并倾向于迎来一位真正的社会主义者，而非奥巴马中意的接替者。
Obama is trying to untangle the Gordian knots in a Middle East shattered by his predecessor; it was W.’s unwarranted invasion of Iraq that unwittingly created ISIS, as the veteran war correspondent Michael Ware points out in his new movie, “Only the Dead.”
奥巴马正试图解开前任在支离破碎的中东制造的难题。正如资深战地记者迈克尔·韦尔(Michael Ware)在他新推出的电影《唯有亡者》(Only the Dead)中所指出的那样，正是乔治·W·布什未经授权出兵伊拉克，在无意中造就了伊斯兰国(ISIS)。
While Republicans who would succeed Obama talked loco last week — Ted Cruz vowed to carpet-bomb ISIS and Donald Trump refused to rule out nuclear strikes — Obama’s military leaders announced that they had killed two top ISIS leaders.
上周，可能会接替奥巴马的共和党人言论疯狂。特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)发誓要对伊斯兰国进行地毯式轰炸，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)则不愿排除核打击的可能。而奥巴马手下的军队高层宣布，他们已击毙了伊斯兰国的两名高级头目。
The president can go to a ballgame and still keep his eye on the ball.
奥巴马总统能够在观看比赛的同时，仍旧保持警惕。