WASHINGTON — The weekend ended with the first tangible sign of a nuclear deal with Iran, after more than three decades of hostility. Then on Monday came the announcement that a conference will convene in January to try to broker an end to the civil war in Syria.
华盛顿——在超过三十年的敌对之后，随着这个周末的结束，美国与伊朗的核协议终于初露端倪。之后，周一公布的通告称，明年一月份将举行会议，以商讨如何结束叙利亚的内战。
The success of either negotiation, both long sought by President Obama, is hardly assured — in fact the odds may be against them. But the two nearly simultaneous developments were vivid statements that diplomacy, the venerable but often-unsatisfying art of compromise, has once again become the centerpiece of American foreign policy.
这两次谈判都是奥巴马总统长期以来一直争取的，但是能否成功却打不上包票——事实上， 成功的可能性并不大。但是这两项进展同时发生，却生动地说明了一点，即外交这一妥协的艺术，虽然庄重古老却常常达不到满意效果，重新成为了美国对外政策的核心。 
At one level, the flurry of diplomatic activity reflects the definitive end of the post-Sept. 11 world, dominated by two major wars and an epic battle against Islamic terrorism that drew the United States into Afghanistan and still keeps its Predator drones flying over Pakistan and Yemen.
在一个层面上，这一阵的外交活动反映出后9·11时代的世界终于结束了。两场主要战争，以及一次针对伊斯兰恐怖主义的史诗式战斗主导了这个时期，为此，美国被卷入阿富汗，并仍然派遣捕食者无人机逡巡于巴基斯坦和也门的上空。
But it also reflects a broader scaling-back of the use of American muscle, not least in the Middle East, as well as a willingness to deal with foreign governments as they are rather than to push for new leaders that better embody American values. “Regime change,” in Iran or even Syria, is out; cutting deals with former adversaries is in.
但是这更反映出美国不仅是在中东地区，而是在更大的范围内缩小武力使用的规模；同时开始愿意跟外国政府接触，接受他们的现状，而不是急于推动那些能够更好地代表美国价值观的领袖上台。在伊朗甚至叙利亚推动“政权更迭”已经过时了；跟这些之前的敌手达成协议成了新的主旋律。
For Mr. Obama, the shift to diplomacy fulfills a campaign pledge from 2008 that he would stretch out a hand to America’s enemies and speak to any foreign leader without preconditions. But it will also subject him to considerable political risks, as the protests about the Iran deal from Capitol Hill and allies in the Middle East attest.
对于奥巴马来说，转向外交努力实现了他在2008年许下的竞选承诺，即他将向美国的敌人伸出手，没有附加条件地与任何外国元首对话。但是这也将他置于巨大的政治风险之下，国会山和中东盟友针对美伊协议的抗议就是例证。
“We’re testing diplomacy; we’re not resorting immediately to military conflict,” Mr. Obama said, defending the Iran deal on Monday in San Francisco. “Tough talk and bluster may be the easy thing to do politically, but it’s not the right thing for our security.”
周一，奥巴马在旧金山维护美伊协议时说，“我们在尝试外交手段；我们不会立刻就采用武装冲突的方式。强硬言论和恐吓威胁从政治角度上看可能做起来比较容易，但这却不是维护美国安全的正确方法。”
Still, diplomacy is a protracted, messy business with often inconclusive results. It is harder for a president to rally the American public behind a multilateral negotiation than a missile strike, though the deep war weariness of Americans has reinforced Mr. Obama’s instinct for negotiated settlements over unilateral action.
当然，外交手段将会漫长而混乱，且常常无法获得确定的结果。对于总统来说，让美国人民在多边谈判上保持团结，肯定要比让民众团结在一次导弹打击行动之后要难得多，不过美国人对于战争的深深倦怠让奥巴马坚信，谈判和解好于单边行动。
Much of that diplomacy has been on public display in the hypercaffeinated travels of Secretary of State John Kerry, who, in addition to his work on Iran and Syria, has persuaded the Israelis and Palestinians to resume peace negotiations. A few hours after sealing the nuclear deal in Geneva, he flew to London for talks on the Syria conference.
从国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)这趟摄入了大量咖啡因的外交旅程中，公众可以清楚地看到诸多方面的外交努力，除了针对伊朗和叙利亚的工作之外，克里还说服以色列和巴勒斯坦重启和平谈判。在日内瓦达成核协议几个小时之后，克里就飞赴伦敦，准备参与叙利亚会议相关的谈判。
But some of the crucial dealings have occurred in the shadows. In March, administration officials said, Mr. Obama authorized a small team of senior officials from the White House and the State Department to travel secretly to Oman, the Persian Gulf sultanate, where they met face to face with Iranian officials to explore the possibility of a nuclear deal.
但是某些关键的协议则是在暗地里达成的。奥巴马政府的官员表示，奥巴马在三月时授权一组白宫和国务院的高级官员秘密前往阿曼这个波斯湾君主国，他们在那里与伊朗官员进行会晤，探究是否有可能达成一份核协议。
The cloak-and-dagger was necessary, the officials said, because it allowed the United States and Iran to discuss the outlines of a nuclear deal without fear that details would leak out. Cutting out others eliminated the competing agendas that come with the six negotiating partners engaged in the formal Geneva talks.
秘密行动是很有必要的，官员们表示，只有这样，美伊官员才有可能谈论这份核谈判的框架，而不用害怕泄露其中的细节。之前在日内瓦的谈判共有六方与会，各自怀揣不同的计划；将其他几方排除在外就避免了这方面的影响。
But the disclosure that the United States and Iran had been talking privately angered France, which registered its displeasure two weeks ago by warning that the proposal then being discussed was too lenient and that it would not accept a “sucker’s deal.”
但是美伊秘密谈判的消息爆出后，法国感到非常愤怒。两个礼拜之前法国就表达了自己的不满，警告说当时正在谈判的协议内容过于宽松，法方不会接受这样一个“输家的协议”。
For all of Mr. Obama’s emphasis on diplomacy, analysts noted that the United States often depends on others to take the initiative. In the case of Iran, it was the election of Hassan Rouhani as president, with his mandate to seek a relaxation of punishing sanctions.
虽然奥巴马如此强调外交手段，分析师还是指出说，美国常常会等别人来采取主动。在伊朗的例子中，那就是哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)当选总统，其在寻求缓解惩罚性制裁方面获得了广泛支持。
In the case of Syria, it was a Russian proposal for President Bashar al-Assad to turn over and destroy his chemical weapons stockpiles, an option the White House seized on as a way of averting a military strike that Mr. Obama first threatened and then backed off from.
在叙利亚的例子里，奥巴马一开始威胁要进行军事袭击，后来白宫却采纳了俄罗斯提出的建议，即巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)交出并销毁其化学武器库，而不再继续之前的威胁。
“The C.W. deal made the Iran diplomacy much more viable and attractive to the administration,” said Vali R. Nasr, the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and a former Obama administration official. But he added, “Neither in Syria or Iran is there an ambition for something larger.”
瓦利·R·纳斯尔(Vali R. Nasr)是约翰斯·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)院长，也是奥巴马政府的前官员，他说，“对于奥巴马政府来说，达成这份化学武器协议之后，对伊外交显得更富吸引力，也更可能成功。”但是他还说，“对于叙利亚也好，伊朗也好，还看不到什么更大的计划。”
Mr. Obama has called for Mr. Assad to give up power. But his diplomatic efforts on Syria have done little to bring that about, and next month’s conference in Geneva is likely to demonstrate that far from negotiating his departure, Mr. Assad is digging in.
奥巴马一直呼吁阿萨德放弃权力。但是奥巴马的对叙外交却没有为此做出太大努力，而下个月在日内瓦的会谈更可能显示，阿萨德非但不会去职，反而会巩固地位。
Similarly with Iran, the administration is adamant that it is negotiating what amounts to an arms-control agreement in response to a specific security threat. A broader opening to Iran — one that could make it a partner on regional issues like Syria or Afghanistan, or even open its political system — seems far-off.
伊朗的情况也差不多，奥巴马政府执着地认为，他们正在就某个特定的安全威胁，进行类似于武器控制协议之类的谈判。与其就更大的问题展开对话——这样有可能将其变成美国在叙利亚或者阿富汗等地区问题上的伙伴，甚至推动其政治体制的开放——则似乎全无可能。
For Mr. Obama, all of this may matter less than resolving the nuclear threat from Iran, an achievement that would allow him to reduce America’s preoccupation with the Middle East and turn to another of his foreign-policy priorities, Asia.
不过跟解决伊朗核威胁相比，对于奥巴马来说，其他这些都不重要。解决了伊朗核威胁，他就能减少美国在中东的牵绊，能够将注意力放到亚洲，其外交政策的另一个重点。
“This was a president who was elected on the promise to wind down two wars responsibly,” said Bruce O. Riedel, a former administration official who is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “He can now also say he has avoided a third war.”
布鲁斯·O·里德尔(Bruce O. Riedel)是前政府官员，现在是布鲁金斯研究院(Brookings Institution)的高级研究员，他说，“奥巴马当选时承诺，要负责任地结束两场战争。他现在也可以说，他刚避免了第三场战争。”
Before he can be sure of that, though, Mr. Obama faces the treacherous task of negotiating a final agreement. This time, the administration will have to do the bargaining with its partners, and it faces vocal skepticism from Israel and members of Congress.
在确认这一点之前，奥巴马还必须达成最终协议，而这将是一个极其艰难的任务。这一次，奥巴马政府必须与其盟友讨价还价，同时直面来自以色列和国会议员的质疑声浪。
“The Iran talks are a four-ring circus,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a former under secretary of state who coordinated Iran policy during the Bush administration. “This is going to be among the most complex and difficult diplomatic cases ever.”
R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R.Nicholas Burns)是布什政府时期的副国务卿，负责协调对伊政策。他说，“伊朗和谈是一个四环马戏台，这将会是有史以来最复杂、最艰难的外交案例之一。”
“We’re trying to deal with very difficult, cynical countries through different means,” said Mr. Burns, who now teaches at Harvard, where he has started the Future of Diplomacy Project. “But the public is weary; they want us to work things out without fighting.”
伯恩斯现在在哈佛大学执教，并于此创立了未来外交项目(Future of Diplomacy Project)。他说，“我们将会通过各种方式，与非常难缠又缺乏信任的国家打交道。民众已经厌倦了，他们希望我们不通过打仗就能够解决问题。”