President Obama on Wednesday nominated Caroline Kennedy to be ambassador to Japan, moving to give a scion of America’s most enduring political dynasty a diplomatic post that has often gone to political heavyweights.
美国总统奥巴马周三提名卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)出任驻日大使。作为美国最长盛不衰的政治家族的后人，肯尼迪女士有望获得这个常常由政界要人担任的外交职位。
In naming Ms. Kennedy, whose nomination has been rumored for months, Mr. Obama is keeping with a well-established tradition of rewarding important campaign supporters with plum embassies. He recently put forward big-dollar fund-raisers to be envoys in London, Berlin, Copenhagen and Madrid.
几个月来，一直有传言说肯尼迪女士将获得提名。奥巴马此举也是遵循了一个多年来行之有效的传统，即用待遇可观的大使职位来回报那些帮助他竞选成功的重要支持者。最近，奥巴马已经提名了一些重要筹款人到伦敦、柏林、哥本哈根和马德里担任使节。
But Ms. Kennedy’s value to Mr. Obama has been less about money than mystique. As the daughter of President John F. Kennedy, her imprimatur on his candidacy in 2008 — along with that of her uncle, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts — elevated Mr. Obama at a crucial moment against his better-known rival, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
但是对于奥巴马来说，肯尼迪女士的价值更多不在金钱，而在一种神秘色彩。作为前总统约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)的女儿，她——以及她的叔叔、马萨诸塞州参议员爱德华·M·肯尼迪(Edward M. Kennedy) ——在2008年奥巴马竞选总统时对他的首肯，在关键时刻提升了奥巴马的实力，帮助他最后战胜了名气更大的对手希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton）。
And it gave Ms. Kennedy lasting ties to Mr. Obama, something analysts said would come in useful in Japan, where officials and journalists have been buzzing about what a Kennedy in Tokyo would mean for Japan’s standing in the United States.
这也让肯尼迪女士和奥巴马建立起了稳固的关系，分析师们说，这种关系可以在日美关系中派上用场。日本的官员和记者已经在纷纷议论：肯尼迪家族的一位成员驻扎东京，意味着日本在美国心中占据怎样的位置。
Ms. Kennedy, 55, a lawyer and an author who has served as director of numerous nonprofit organizations, has never worked in government and has no special expertise in Japan. But some experts said her lack of knowledge is outweighed by her connections to the Oval Office. She shares that with other marquee figures who have served as ambassador to Tokyo, including former Vice President Walter F. Mondale; Howard Baker, a former senator and White House chief of staff; and Thomas S. Foley, a former House speaker.
现年55岁的肯尼迪女士不仅是律师、作家，也曾担任过很多非营利组织的董事，但她从来没有在政府部门工作过，在日本的问题上也没有什么特别的专长。但一些专家认为，她和白宫椭圆形办公室的关系，大可弥补她缺乏专业知识的问题。在这个方面，她很像其他一些担任过驻日大使的政界要人，比如前副总统沃尔特·F·蒙代尔(Walter F. Mondale)，前参议员和白宫幕僚长霍华德·贝克(Howard Baker)，前众议院议长托马斯·S·弗利(Thomas S. Foley)。
“What you really want in an ambassador is someone who can get the president of the United States on the phone,” said Kurt M. Campbell, a former assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs. “I can’t think of anybody in the United States who could do that more quickly than Caroline Kennedy.”
“真正理想的大使，是那种可以让美国总统接听电话的人，”前东亚事务助理国务卿库尔特·M·坎贝尔(Kurt M. Campbell)说。“我觉得在美国，没有谁比卡洛琳·肯尼迪更能做到这一点了。”
Her stature, he said, should assuage Japan’s worries that in Washington, Tokyo takes a back seat to Beijing. The current ambassador to China, Gary Locke, was commerce secretary during Mr. Obama’s first term, but he hardly knows the president as well as Ms. Kennedy does.
他说，日本人担心在华盛顿的心目中，东京被排到了北京之后，肯尼迪女士的地位应该能缓解这种担忧。目前驻中国大使骆家辉(Gary Locke)是奥巴马第一届任期时的商务部长，但他跟总统的私交远远比不上肯尼迪女士。
In a statement Wednesday, the Japanese foreign ministry welcomed the nomination, noting that “Caroline Kennedy has the deep confidence of President Obama” and that her choice reflected “the great importance the Obama administration attaches to the Japan-U.S. alliance.”
在周三的一份声明中，日本外务省对这项提名表示欢迎，称“卡洛琳·肯尼迪对奥巴马总统充满了信心”，选择她担任这个职位反映了“奥巴马政府对日美同盟的重视”。
If confirmed, Ms. Kennedy would replace John V. Roos, a lawyer and major fund-raiser for the president. Mr. Obama chose Mr. Roos over Joseph S. Nye Jr., a Harvard professor who was the preferred candidate of Mrs. Clinton, then Mr. Obama’s newly appointed secretary of state.
如果提名通过，肯尼迪女士将接替约翰·V·鲁斯(John V. Roos)成为驻日大使。鲁斯是一名律师，也是奥巴马的重要筹款人。在奥巴马当时新任命的国务卿希拉里·克林顿心目中，哈佛大学教授小约瑟夫·S·奈(Joseph S. Nye Jr.)才是驻日大使的最佳人选，但奥巴马选择了鲁斯。
Mr. Roos was barely known in Japan when he arrived in 2009. But he built up a following on Twitter with frequent tweets about baseball, Justin Bieber and Mrs. Clinton — many of them in Japanese. He was the first envoy to attend a peace memorial in Hiroshima and dealt with the tsunami and subsequent crisis at the Fukushima nuclear power plant.
2009年抵达日本时，那里很少有人知道他是谁。但是他在Twitter上频繁发布关于棒球、贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)和克林顿夫人的信息，赢得了大批粉丝，其中很多都在日本。鲁斯是第一位出席广岛和平纪念仪式的使节，并且参与了日本海啸以及随后的福岛核电站危机处理事务。
While Ms. Kennedy may not have firsthand ties to Japan, historians note that her father played a critical role as president in repairing the alliance between Japan and the United States.
虽然肯尼迪女士和日本没有直接渊源，但历史学家们指出，她父亲在担任总统期间，曾在修复日美联盟方面发挥了重大作用。
Relations had become frayed over the signing of a 1960 treaty that made permanent the American military base in Okinawa. President Kennedy dispatched another Harvard academic, Edwin O. Reischauer, as his ambassador to Tokyo, and Mr. Reischauer, with his Japanese wife, Haru, worked to wean the countries away from their post-World War II relationship as occupier and occupied. The president also sent his brother, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, on a fence-mending tour of Japan.
1960年签署的美军驻冲绳基地永久化的条约，让两国关系变得紧张起来。肯尼迪总统任命另一位哈佛学者埃德温·赖肖尔(Edwin O. Reischauer)为大使，携其日裔夫人松方春(Haru) 前往东京，努力改善两国在二战之后作为占领者和被占领者的关系。此外肯尼迪总统还派他的弟弟、司法部长罗伯特·F·肯尼迪(Robert F. Kennedy)去过一次日本，帮助修复两国关系。
Ms. Kennedy would not face anywhere near that kind of tension. These days, American officials worry most about clashes between Japan and China over disputed islands in the East China Sea. But the Japanese bridled when Mr. Obama skipped a meeting last month with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on the sidelines of the Group of 8 meeting in Northern Ireland.
肯尼迪女士不会面临那样的紧张关系。如今美国官员最担心的是日本和中国就东中国海争议岛屿发生冲突。但是上个月，奥巴马总统在参加北爱尔兰8国集团会议期间取消了与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的一次单独会面，引起了日本的不满。
None of Mr. Obama’s other diplomatic appointments are likely to draw the attention that Ms. Kennedy’s has.
奥巴马为其他外交职位提名的人选，可能都不会引起像肯尼迪女士这么多的关注。
Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue magazine and a fund-raiser for Mr. Obama, was rumored to be under consideration for posts in London and Paris. But she was passed over for London in favor of Matthew Barzun, a technology executive who was the Obama campaign’s national finance chairman and a former ambassador to Sweden.
《时尚》(Vogue)杂志的编辑安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)也是奥巴马的一名筹款人，之前有传言说她可能会是伦敦或巴黎职位的人选。但是科技企业高管、奥巴马竞选期间的筹款主席、美国驻瑞典大使马修·巴尔赞(Matthew Barzun)获得了伦敦职位的提名。
Mr. Obama’s other recent nominees fit a pattern of heavy contributors to his campaign. For example, John Emerson, the director of private client services at Capital Group Companies, was nominated to Berlin.
奥巴马最近提名的其他人选，也都为他竞选总统立下了汗马功劳。比如美国资本集团公司(Capital Group Companies)的私人客户服务主管约翰·爱默生(John Emerson)，就获得了柏林职位的提名。