CHARLOTTE, N.C. — President Barack Obama on Tuesday delivered a full-throated stemwinder on behalf of Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid, making his debut on the campaign trail this year just hours after federal officials criticized Clinton’s “careless” handling of emails but said no charges should be filed.
北卡罗来纳州夏洛特——本周二，奥巴马首次在今年的竞选活动中亮相，表达了对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的全力支持。仅仅几个小时之前，联邦政府官员批评了克林顿在处理电子邮件问题上的“大意”，但认为不需要提出指控。
The president and his first-term secretary of state sidestepped the email issue during their first joint campaign appearance at a convention center here. Obama whipped up the friendly crowd by heaping praise on Clinton and taking some swipes at Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee.
在这里的一个会议中心，总统和他的第一任国务卿首次共同出席竞选活动，期间他们回避了电子邮件问题。奥巴马在友好的人群中掀起了热浪，他赞扬克林顿，并对共和党候选人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)进行了批评。
“I can tell you this, Hillary Clinton has been tested,” Obama said, interrupted repeatedly by the cheering crowd. “There has never been any man or woman more qualified for this office,” the president boomed.
“我告诉你们，希拉里·克林顿是经过考验的，”奥巴马打断欢呼的人群。“从来没有谁，无论男女，比她更有资格入主白宫，”他大声说。
Obama said voters face a choice between “some imaginary past, or whether we are going to reach for the future.” And he said that Clinton was a candidate who did not fear what the future has to offer.
奥巴马说，选民面临两个选择，“一个是虚构的过去，一个是我们是否要走向未来。”他说，克林顿是一个敢于面对未来的总统候选人。
“She believes that it is ours to shape,” he said. “Hillary understands that we make our own destiny, as long as we’re together.”
“她相信，未来是由我们打造的，”他说。“希拉里知道我们的命运由我们自己决定，只要我们齐心协力。”
Speaking before the president, Clinton told the crowd of several thousand people that, with Obama’s help, she intended to defeat Trump. She described Obama as a “statesman” with “depth, heart and humility” and said that he had prevailed despite an array of obstructions in Washington.
在总统面前，克林顿告诉台下的数千人，她要在奥巴马的帮助下打败特朗普。她说奥巴马是一位“深邃、宽宏、谦逊”的“政治家”，称赞奥巴马在华盛顿克服一系列障碍，获得了成功。
And, she added: “He knows a thing or two about winning elections.”
然后她说：“他对赢得选举这事是很在行的。”
Clinton lauded Obama’s presidency and drew a sharp contrast with Trump, eliciting loud boos when she asked: “Can you imagine him, sitting in the Oval Office, the next time the world faces a crisis? Donald Trump is simply unqualified and temperamentally unfit.”
克林顿称赞奥巴马担任总统期间的表现，将他和特朗普做了一个鲜明对比，克林顿用一个问题引发了大家的嘘声：“当世界面临下一个危机的时候，你能想象他坐在白宫椭圆形办公室里吗？唐纳德·特朗普根本不胜任这个职位，他的性格不适合。”
Obama remains wildly popular among Democrats and, in particular, the black voters who helped Clinton defeat Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
奥巴马依然在民主党人中广受欢迎，尤其在黑人选民中，他们曾帮助克林顿击败了佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。
In a general election, Obama can assist Clinton in states that have historically leaned Republican, like North Carolina, where an increasingly diverse population helped Obama capture the state’s 15 electoral votes in 2008. He lost the state to Mitt Romney in 2012.
在总统选举中，奥巴马可以帮助克林顿在一些州争取支持，这些州在历史上更倾向于投票给共和党人，比如北卡罗来纳州，该州人口日益多样化，从而让奥巴马在2008年获得了该州15张选举人票。在2012年的选举中，他在该州输给了米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)。