WASHINGTON —Less than three months into President Obama’s first term, a top White House national security official told reporters that the new commander in chief’s diplomacy would be different from the regular-guy friendships with foreign leaders sought by President George W. Bush.
华盛顿——奥巴马第一个总统任期开始后不到三个月，白宫的一名高级国家安全官员告诉记者，在外交方面，上任总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)希望与外国领导人形成常人之间的友谊，但新总统将会有所不同。
No longer would the goal be “to establish some, you know, buddy-buddy relationship,” said the official, Michael A. McFaul.
总统的目标将不再是“培养一种，你懂的，哥们之间的关系”，这位名叫迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)的官员说。
Mr. Obama’s strained association with Mr. Netanyahu, who has clashed with other American presidents as well, has been difficult from the start. But the absence of any real connection between them underscores the rule, not the exception, for Mr. Obama, who has only occasionally invested time in cultivating foreign leaders.
奥巴马与内塔尼亚胡之间的关系从一开始就比较紧张，虽然后者和另外几位美国总统也发生过冲突。不过两人之间缺乏真诚纽带的状况，对于奥巴马而言倒是一种常态，而非例外。奥巴马只会偶尔花时间来培养与外国领导人的关系。
It is a cool, businesslike approach, similar to the way Mr. Obama deals with members of Congress, donors and activists at home. But historians and some of the president’s former foreign policy advisers say the distance the president keeps from foreign leaders leaves him without the durable relationships that previous presidents forged to help smooth disagreements and secure reluctant cooperation.
这是一种很务实的冷静做法，奥巴马对待国内的国会议员、捐款人和活动人士也是这样。但是，历史学者和他的一些前外交政策顾问认为，以前的美国总统和外国领导人培养了持久关系的时候，有助于弥合分歧、确保不太情愿的合作得以进行下去，而由于奥巴马和外国领导人保持距离，他缺乏这样的关系。
“Personal relationships are not his style,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former special envoy for Middle East peace in the Obama administration who is now vice president of the Brookings Institution. Mr. Indyk said Mr. Bush and President Bill Clinton “yukked it up with everybody.”
“培养个人关系不是他的风格，”马丁·S·因迪克(Martin S. Indyk)说。他曾是奥巴马政府的中东和平问题特使，目前在布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)担任副会长。因迪克表示，布什和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)“和每个人都能开怀大笑”。
“With Obama, some he invested in, some he clicked with,” Mr. Indyk said. “But you could count them on one hand.”
“而奥巴马，有些人他会在培养关系上花些时间，有些人他一见如故，”因迪克说。“但这样的人用一只手就能数得过来。”
White House officials say that while warm relationships may be desirable, they do not necessarily lead to success in American foreign policy, and that Mr. Obama has made headway without them.
白宫官员表示，虽说关系热络比较理想，但这并不能保证美国外交政策取得成功，而奥巴马不这么做也在取得进展。
“The president is driven by an assessment of our interests in dealing with world leaders,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. “It’s more about how do you get off the talking points with somebody, see where they are coming from.”
“我们会对和世界各国领导人打交道时我们的利益所在进行评估，而总统的做法是由这种评估推动的，”奥巴马的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J.Rhodes)说。“更主要的是，你在与某人打交道时如何脱离讲稿，如何看到背后的东西。”
Mr. Rhodes pointed out that Mr. Obama has methodically assembled support from like-minded leaders for sanctions against Russia for its actions in Ukraine, for the fight against the Islamic State, and in some cases to confront climate change.
罗兹指出，无论是因俄罗斯在乌克兰的行动而对其进行的制裁，还是打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的斗争，奥巴马一直在有条不紊地赢得观念相似的别国领导人的支持。在应对气候变化方面，有些情况下也是如此。
Robert Dallek, a historian who has written extensively on the American presidency, called Mr. Obama a “cool customer” and said he appears not to exude the kind of warmth that characterized the relationships between Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher or between Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill.
历史学者罗伯特·达莱克(Robert Dallek)写了大量关于美国总统的著作，他称奥巴马是个“冷静的家伙”。他还表示，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)和玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)之间，富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)和温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)之间，存在着一种颇为友善的关系，而奥巴马似乎没有流露出这种热情。
“If a foreign leader connects with another head of government, it can be salutary in helping them work through difficulties or problems that may exist,” Mr. Dallek said. “If they have a lot of animus toward each other, it impedes the diplomatic give-and-take.”
“如果一位外国领导人与另一国的政府首脑之间关系良好，这可能会有助于他们完成一些存在困难或问题的工作，”达莱克说。“如果他们之间存在不少敌意，那么外交工作中的互让就会受阻。”
Churchill spent several weeks at the White House bonding with Roosevelt after the attack on Pearl Harbor, a time that Mr. Dallek said helped them form “a kind of comfort zone” that deepened the already strong relationship between the United States and Britain during World War II.
珍珠港事件后，丘吉尔花了几周时间待在白宫与罗斯福共处。达莱克认为，这段时间帮他们形成了“一种舒适区”，深化了二战期间美国和英国之间业已牢固的关系。
Aides say it is unlikely that a friendship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu could ease the fundamental disagreement the two have over how to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. But former advisers say the hard feelings have made the rift worse.
幕僚表示，奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡之间就算形成了友谊，也不可能缓解两人在如何阻止伊朗研制核武器上的根本分歧。不过，一些前顾问认为，他们之间的敌意扩大了这种裂痕。
“There is a tone that’s set from the top,” said Tamara Cofman Wittes, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for Near East affairs under Mr. Obama. “Right now, unfortunately, sadly, the tone between the United States and Israel is one of bitterness.”
“存在着一种由顶层设定的基调，”塔玛拉·考夫曼·维茨(Tamara Cofman Wittes)说。她曾在奥巴马政府担任负责近东事务的副助理国务卿。“目前，糟糕而不幸的是，美国和以色列之间的基调相当苦涩。”
In the past six years, administration officials have sometimes strayed from their early no-friends strategy. Aides say that Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, both lawyers from the same generation, established a rapport after their first meeting. They also say that Mr. Obama developed warm feelings for Lee Myung-bak when he was the president of South Korea, and — for a time — Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of Turkey.
过去六年中，奥巴马政府的官员的确有时会偏离早期那种不交朋友的策略。幕僚表示，奥巴马和俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)是同一代人，均是律师出身，两人首次见面后就建立起了融洽关系。他们还指出，奥巴马对韩国前总统李明博(Lee Myung-bak)颇有好感，曾经有一段时间，他对现任土耳其总统的雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)也是如此。
The president has built workmanlike relationships with allies like Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and President François Hollande of France, but nothing close. Aides say he had a genuine bond with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, but that has been strained by revelations that the United States tapped her private cellphone.
对于像英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)和法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)这样的盟友，奥巴马保持着一种驾轻就熟的共事关系，但并不亲密。奥巴马的幕僚表示，他与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)之间曾经存在真正的纽带，但美国窃听默克尔私人手机的事情曝光后，两人的关系变得有些紧张。
“He’s invested a lot of time in his relationship with Angela Merkel that has made it resilient through a lot of ups and downs,” Mr. Rhodes said.
“他投入了大量时间来与安格拉·默克尔培养关系，因此能经受住很多风雨，”罗兹说。
For much of the rest of the world, aides say the president’s strategy is one of reality: He must forge working relationships based on mutual interests with leaders who are in many cases reserved personalities who keep their own distance.
对于其他很多国家，幕僚表示，奥巴马的策略是着眼于现实：他必须努力和这些国家的领导人建立起基于共同利益的工作关系。很多时候，这些领导人性情拘谨，本身也在与他保持距离。
Mr. Obama never got along with Nuri Kamal al-Maliki when he was prime minister of Iraq or with Hamid Karzai when he was president of Afghanistan, both of whom suspected — with justification — that Mr. Obama wanted to see them leave office. Soon after becoming president, Mr. Obama stopped holding the regular video conferences with Mr. Maliki that the Iraqi prime minister had with Mr. Bush. Mr. Obama is also not very close to other leaders in the Middle East, like King Abdullah II of Jordan.
奥巴马和伊拉克前总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)、阿富汗上任总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)一向合不来。这两人都怀疑奥巴马希望自己下台，当然他们这么想不无道理。奥巴马就任总统之后不久，就不再像布什那样，定期与马利基召开视频会议。至于中东地区的其他领导人，比如约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世(King Abdullah II)，奥巴马与他们的关系也不是特别密切。
Mr. Obama has largely outsourced the relationship building to Secretary of State John Kerry, who has tried to develop close bonds with some of the world’s most challenging characters. Mr. Kerry has spent hundreds of hours courting Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, and Mohammad Javad Zarif, the Iranian minister of foreign affairs. Mr. Kerry also spent countless hours unsuccessfully wooing Mr. Netanyahu during failed talks on Middle East peace.
在很大程度上，奥巴马把培养关系的任务交托给了国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)。克里一直在努力与世界上一些最具挑战性的人物建立紧密的纽带。他花了数百小时的时间来与俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)、伊朗外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)结交。在中东和平会谈期间，他还花了无数时间与内塔尼亚胡套近乎，不过没有取得成效，会谈也以失败告终。
Mr. Obama’s own efforts to get closer to prime ministers and his fellow presidents have ended with largely disappointing results.
奥巴马亲自尝试过与别国的政府首脑和国家元首建立更亲密的关系，但总的来说效果令人失望。
In June 2013, Mr. Obama and President Xi Jinping of China spent two days at the Sunnylands estate in Southern California, hoping to build a more comfortable relationship. Aides later conceded that the effort at friendship had largely failed.
2013年6月，奥巴马与中国国家主席习近平在南加州的“阳光之乡”(Sunnylands)共度了两天时间，希望能建立更惬意的关系。幕僚后来承认，这次的交友努力基本已告失败。
“Xi Jinping wasn’t exactly interested in having a warm and sunny relationship,” Mr. Indyk said.
“习近平对于阳光般的热络关系并没有多大感兴趣，”因迪克说。
From the beginning of his presidency, Mr. Obama made little effort with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, a relationship that has since turned hostile over Russia’s military incursions into Ukraine and the anti-American wave of nationalism that Mr. Putin has overseen at home. In 2013, Mr. Obama infuriated Mr. Putin by publicly describing him as “looking like the bored kid in the back of the classroom.”
自从上任之初，奥巴马就几乎没有尝试过与俄罗斯总统普京培养关系。随着俄罗斯军事入侵乌克兰，以及普京在俄罗斯掀起反美民族主义浪潮，两人之间已经变得充满敌意。2013年，奥巴马公开说普京“看上去就像坐在教室后面的百无聊赖的孩子”，激怒了后者。
But Mr. McFaul, a former American ambassador to Russia, said there was little Mr. Obama could have done to right the relationship with Mr. Putin. “No amount of golfing, banya-sharing or hunting with Putin would have changed that,” he said, using a Russian word for sauna.
但是，曾任美国驻俄罗斯大使的麦克福尔认为，奥巴马基本上无法改善与普京的关系。“无论与普京一起打高尔夫、洗桑拿、狩猎多少次，都不会改变这一点，”他说。
White House officials say Mr. Obama has established a personal connection with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, and point out that
白宫官员指出，奥巴马已与印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)建立了个人纽带，而且阿富汗总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)和伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)将于未来几周内相继到访白宫。