WASHINGTON — President Obama formally asked Congress on Wednesday to authorize a three-year military campaign against the Islamic State that would avoid a large-scale invasion and occupation. The offensive could include limited ground operations to hunt down enemy leaders or rescue American personnel from the Sunni militants.
华盛顿——周三，美国总统奥巴马正式要求国会授权对伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）开展为期三年的军事行动，但行动将避免大规模的入侵和占领。进攻可能会包括有限的地面行动，目的是追捕敌方头目，或从逊尼派武装分子手中营救美国人员。
A proposal sent by the White House to Capitol Hill on Wednesday would formally give the president the power to continue the airstrikes he has been conducting since last fall against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, as well as “associated persons or forces.” The measure would set limits that were never imposed during the wars of the last decade in Afghanistan and Iraq by expiring in three years and withholding permission for “enduring offensive ground combat operations.”
白宫周三向国会提交的提案，寻求向奥巴马总统正式授予向伊斯兰国及“有关人员和武装”继续实施空袭的权力。自去年秋季以来，空袭一直在进行。这项提案将对作战行动设限，要求行动在三年内结束，而且并未授权开展“持续性的地面进攻作战行动”。这样的限制在过去10年的阿富汗和伊拉克战争中从未有过。
“I do not believe America’s interests are served by endless war or by remaining on a perpetual war footing,” Mr. Obama said in a televised statement in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Wednesday afternoon. He added that the three-year time frame was not a timetable announcing how long the mission would last. “What it is saying is that Congress should revisit the issue at the beginning of the next president’s term.”
“我不认为无休止的战争，或者永远处于战备状态对美国有利，”奥巴马周三下午在白宫罗斯福厅(Roosevelt Room)发表电视讲话时说。他还表示，三年的时间范围，并不表明这项任务将持续多久。“它的意思是，国会应该在下一任总统的任期开始时，重新考虑这个问题。”
But in a letter to Congress accompanying the proposal and in his televised comments, Mr. Obama, who has said there would be no boots on the ground in Iraq and Syria, envisioned limited ground combat operations “such as rescue operations” or the use of “Special Operations forces to take military action against ISIL leadership.”
但是，奥巴马在提案附带的写给国会的信中，以及在电视讲话中，都提出了有限地面作战行动的设想，“比如救援行动”或利用“特种作战部队对ISIL领导层采取军事行动”。奥巴马此前也曾表示，美国不会向伊拉克和叙利亚派遣地面部队。
He also said the legislation would allow the use of ground forces for intelligence gathering, target spotting and planning assistance to ground troops of allies like Iraq.
他还表示，这项法案将允许动用地面部队收集情报、确定目标位置，以及为协助伊拉克等盟友的地面部队做出规划。
“If we had actionable intelligence about ISIL leaders and our partners didn’t have the capacity to get there, I would be prepared to order our special forces to take action because I will not allow these terrorist to have a safe haven,” Mr. Obama said in his statement.
奥巴马在声明中称，“如果我们有对ISIL领导层采取行动的充分情报，而我们的伙伴又不具备到达那里的能力，我就会随时准备命令我们的特种部队采取行动，因为我绝不会允许这些恐怖分子有藏身之处。”
In the letter to Congress, Mr. Obama justified the authorization on the premise that the Islamic State could at some point endanger the United States. “If left unchecked, ISIL will pose a threat beyond the Middle East, including to the United States homeland,” he wrote.
奥巴马在写给国会的信中阐述了授权的理由，称伊斯兰国有朝一日可能会对美国造成威胁。他写道，“如果任其发展，ISIL将会在中东地区之外构成威胁，包括美国本土。”
While he repeated his contention that “existing statutes provide me with the authority I need,” he said he wanted to work with Congress to obtain bipartisan support. “I can think of no better way for the Congress to join me in supporting our nation’s security than by enacting this legislation, which would show the world we are united in our resolve to counter the threat posed by ISIL.”
尽管重申“现有法律为我提供了我所需要的权力”，他仍然表示自己希望能与国会合作，以获得两党的支持。“希望国会能与我一道保障我们国家的安全，除了通过这项法案，我想不到更好的办法。这样就可以向世界展示，在对抗ISIL的威胁方面，我们坚定地团结在一起。”
The president’s proposal was sent to Congress shortly after confirmation of the death of Kayla Mueller, 26, an American held by the Islamic State. The draft legislation specifically mentioned her and three other Americans who were held hostage and then killed by the Islamic State — James Foley, Steven J. Sotloff and Peter Kassig — in clauses justifying the need for military action.
在被伊斯兰国绑架的美国人，26岁的凯拉·米勒(Kayla Mueller)死亡的消息得到证实后不久，奥巴马就向国会递交了提案。该立法草案在阐述军事行动的必要性的条款中，特别提到了米勒和其他三名被伊斯兰国绑架、杀害的美国人——詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)、史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)和彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)。
If approved, the proposal would be the first time Congress has authorized a president’s use of force since lawmakers voted in 2002 to permit President George W. Bush to invade Iraq. Mr. Obama pulled troops out of Iraq in 2011 but has sent a limited number back as part of his campaign against the Islamic State. His proposed legislation would repeal the 2002 authorization but leave in place separate legislation passed in 2001 allowing force against Al Qaeda and its affiliates.
如果提案获得通过，这将是议员们于2002年投票允许乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统入侵伊拉克以来，国会首次授权总统使用武力。奥巴马于2011年撤回驻伊美军，但他又向伊拉克派遣了数量有限的士兵，作为打击伊斯兰国的部分举措。奥巴马的提案将废除2002年的授权，但会保留2001年通过的另一项打击基地组织(Al Qaeda)及其分支的授权法案。
Mr. Obama, who plans to make a statement at the White House at 3:30 p.m. on Wednesday to discuss the matter, repeated in his letter his desire to work with Congress to “refine and ultimately repeal” the 2001 measure and distinguished his limited mission from the wars waged by his predecessor.
奥巴马在信中重申自己希望与国会合作，“改进并最终废除”2001年通过的法案，他还指出，自己开展的规模有限的行动，与前任总统发起的战争存在区别。奥巴马计划于周三下午3:30在白宫就此事发表声明。
“My administration’s draft A.U.M.F.,” or Authorization for Use of Military Force, “would not authorize long-term, large-scale ground combat operations like those our nation conducted in Iraq and Afghanistan,” he wrote. “Local forces, rather than U.S. military forces, should be deployed to conduct such operations.”
“我的政府提出的AUMF草案，不会授权开展像伊拉克、阿富汗战争那样长期、大规模的地面作战行动，”他写道。“部署开展此类行动的应该是当地部队，而不是美国军队。”AUMF指“授权使用武力决议案”(Authorization for Use of Military Force)。
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he welcomed Mr. Obama’s decision to seek the involvement of Congress in the military campaign. “It also will be important that the president exert leadership, lay out a clear strategy for confronting the threat posed by ISIS, and do the hard work of making the case to the American people why this fight is necessary and one we must win,” he said in a statement.
田纳西州共和党人、参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)主席鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)表示，他欢迎奥巴马促使国会介入军事行动的决定。考克发表声明称，“很重要的一点是，总统要发挥领导力，制定清晰策略对抗ISIS带来的威胁，努力向美国人民说明我们开战是必要的，而且必须取胜。”