WASHINGTON — President Obama confronted a pair of volatile international crises with restraint on Thursday as he said he was not close to authorizing airstrikes against Islamic extremists in Syria and played down the latest escalation of Russia’s military intervention in Ukraine.
华盛顿——周四，奥巴马总统在面对急剧变化的两大国际危机时出言谨慎。他表示距离授权空袭在叙利亚的伊斯兰主义极端分子还有一段路要走。他还对俄罗斯军事干预乌克兰的最新升级予以了淡化。
With tensions rising in Europe and the Middle East, Mr. Obama emphasized that a military response would not resolve either situation and pledged to build international coalitions to grapple with them. Despite pressure from within his own government for more assertive action, he tried to avoid inflaming passions as he sought new approaches.
随着欧洲与中东局势的紧张程度不断加剧，奥巴马在强调军事回应无法解决其中任何一个危机的同时，承诺要打造国际联盟来努力加以应对。尽管政府内部有人施压，要求他采取更为强势的行动，但他仍在尽力避免在自己寻求新办法时激起强烈情绪。
Mr. Obama confirmed that he had asked Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel for options for military strikes in Syria to target the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which has established a virtual state straddling the border of those countries. But speaking with reporters before a meeting of his national security team, the president said no action in Syria was imminent because he had not even seen military plans.
奥巴马证实，他已要求国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)提供在叙利亚境内军事袭击“叙利亚与伊拉克伊斯兰国”（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的几种方案。该组织已在跨越两国边境线的地区建立了一个有名无实的政权。不过，在与国家安全团队会面前接见记者的时候，奥巴马表示，不会立即在叙利亚开展行动，因为就连军事方案他都尚未看到。
“We don’t have a strategy yet,” he said. “I think what I’ve seen in some of the news reports suggests that folks are getting a little further ahead of where we’re at than we currently are.”
“我们的策略还没有成型，”他说。“我想，我看到的一些新闻报道显示的进展，要比我们目前的实际情况超前一点。”
His comment instantly drew fire from critics and prompted aides to clarify that he was only talking about what to do in Syria. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, posted a series of Twitter messages and went on television to say that Mr. Obama did, in fact, have a strategy to combat ISIS in Iraq. He said it included military action, building an inclusive government, supporting Iraq’s armed forces and recruiting regional partners.
奥巴马的评论立即招致猛烈批评，并使得幕僚们出面澄清：他仅针对的是在叙利亚的计划。白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在Twitter上接连发帖，并在电视上出镜，强调奥巴马实际上确有打击在伊拉克的ISIS的成型策略。欧内斯特称，这一策略包括军事行动、打造一个包容性政府、支持伊拉克的武装力量，以及网罗中东地区的合作伙伴。
Mr. Obama seemed equally intent on managing expectations about what the United States may do in response to reports that Russia has sent forces into Ukraine . Although he said he expected to impose additional sanctions, he declined to call Russia’s latest moves an invasion, as Ukraine and others have, saying they were “not really a shift” but just “a little more overt” form of longstanding Russian violations of Ukrainian sovereignty.
有报道称，俄罗斯已派遣军队进入乌克兰。对于美国将如何回应的问题，奥巴马似乎同样试图降低外界的期望值。虽然他表示，计划对俄施加进一步的制裁，但他拒绝遵照乌克兰等国的措辞，将俄罗斯的最新举动称为“侵略”。他的说法是，这“并不算真正的转变”，而不过是俄罗斯长期侵犯乌克兰主权的“一种更公开一点的”形式。
“I consider the actions that we’ve seen in the last week a continuation of what’s been taking place for months now,” Mr. Obama said. “The separatists are backed, trained, armed, financed by Russia. Throughout this process, we’ve seen deep Russian involvement in everything that they’ve done.”
“我认为，我们在上周看到的行动是已经延续了好几个月的事件的继续，”奥巴马说。“分裂分子得到了俄罗斯的支持、训练、武器和资助。在整个过程中，我们看到俄罗斯深度介入了他们所做的每件事情。”
In both cases, Mr. Obama took a strikingly different tone than his own advisers have in recent days. The nation’s top military officer and the president’s deputy national security adviser both talked in sharper terms over the last week about the possibility of striking in Syria, while Mr. Obama’s ambassador to the United Nations expressed moral outrage on Thursday over Russia’s latest actions in Ukraine.
在两大危机上，奥巴马采用的语调均与自己的顾问在最近几天的发言截然不同。美国军队的最高将领和副国家安全顾问上周期间都曾措辞严厉地讨论在叙利亚开展攻击行动的可能性，而美国驻联合国大使周四也对俄罗斯在乌克兰境内的最新举动表达了道义上的愤慨。
Administration officials have been preparing for another round of sanctions against Russia in conjunction with European allies, but they are unsure whether the president will take them to the next level, affecting broader swaths of Russia’s financial and energy sectors at the risk of harming American and European economic interests.
奥巴马政府的官员正在筹划与欧洲盟友联手对俄实施新一轮制裁，但他们并不确定总统是否会将制裁推至新的高度——在影响俄罗斯金融与能源部门的更大范围的同时，有可能会伤及美欧的经济利益。