As he raced across the country before the election, President Obama warned supporters about the stakes. “All the progress we’ve made over these last eight years,” he said, “goes out the window if we don’t win this election.”
总统大选之前，奥巴马总统在全国各地都向支持者们警告可能出现的风险。他说，“如果不赢得这次选举，过去八年里我们所取得的进步就会付诸东流。”
Hillary Clinton, his anointed successor, did not win, and so now Mr. Obama will find out whether his prediction was just campaign hyperbole or if his legacy really has just gone out the window. Not only are specific initiatives like his health care and climate change programs at risk, but so, too, is the broader vision Mr. Obama articulated for America.
他选择的继任者希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)没有赢，所以，现在奥巴马即将知道自己的预测是竞选中的夸大之辞，还是真的要看着政治遗产付诸东流。不仅他的医疗保险和气候变化等议案面临风险，而且他为美国所描绘的整体构想也是如此。
Suddenly, the progressive, post-racial, bridge-building society he promised has given way to an angry, jeering, us-against-them nation to be led by a new president who relishes reality-show name-calling with racial overtones. In none of Mr. Obama’s worst-case scenarios when he came to office was this the way he imagined leaving.
突然之间，他所承诺的那个进步的、后种族的、在鸿沟之上架起桥梁的社会，让位给一个充满愤怒、嘲笑与对抗的国家，由一个享受真人秀、嘴巴不干不净，还带点种族歧视弦外之音的新总统领导。当奥巴马上任之际，他为离任时设想过的最糟糕的情况，都比这要好。
Since the electoral earthquake that made Donald J. Trump his designated successor, Mr. Obama has consoled his team — and himself — by telling them that they moved the country forward despite this obvious setback. Change does not follow a straight line, he told crying aides. Instead, it tends to zig and zag.
一场选举地震令唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)成为他的指定继任者后，奥巴马安慰他的团队说，尽管有这个显然的挫折，他们还是推动了这个国家的前进，这也是在安慰他自己。改变并不是直线发展的，他告诉正在哭泣的助手们。相反，它的道路往往是曲折的。
But Mr. Obama’s place in history looks considerably different than a week ago. The transformation he envisioned may not survive his administration. He is leaving near the peak of his popularity, yet many of the voters who made Mr. Obama the nation’s first black president chose to replace him with a man who had peddled racially incendiary suggestions that he might not have been born in this country.
但奥巴马的历史地位看上去与一周前相差很大。他的任期一旦结束，他所设想的变革便可能也随之告终。他的受欢迎程度在离任之时达到顶峰，但是许多令奥巴马成为这个国家第一任黑人总统的选民，却选择让一个兜售种族主义煽动言论，认为奥巴马可能不是在这个国家出生的男人接替他。
In some ways, this follows a pattern: Americans grow weary of incumbent presidents and often pick successors perceived to be the opposite. John F. Kennedy was the vigorous young antidote to the aging Dwight D. Eisenhower. The cerebral Mr. Obama was the antithesis of the bring-‘em-on George W. Bush.
从某些方面来看，这是符合某种规律的：厌倦现任总统的美国人，经常会选择被认为拥有相反特质的继任者。对于衰老的德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)来说，年富力强的约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)堪称一剂解毒剂。理智的奥巴马是“尽管放马过来”的乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的反面。
“My operative theory of presidential succession is people always choose the remedy to what they have; they never choose the replica — even when the incumbent is popular,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s longtime strategist.
“关于总统之位的传承，我的核心理论是，人们总是选择能对现任总统做出补救的人；但从来不选择现有总统的复制品――即使在任的总统很受欢迎，”奥巴马的长期战略顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说。
Given that, aides argued that Mr. Trump’s election should not be viewed as a referendum on the president. “It was not a rejection of Obama or Obama-ism,” said Dan Pfeiffer, another former senior adviser. “It was probably more about the two candidates running in this election.”
考虑到这一点，奥巴马的助手们认为特朗普的选举不应该被视为针对现任总统的公投。“这不是对奥巴马或奥巴马主义的排斥，”另一位前高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)说，“这可能同这次选举中的两个候选人关系更大。”
Critics said there was no way to look at it as anything but a rebuff. “The election outcome is a clear repudiation of President Obama, his policies, his vision, how those policies will be implemented,” said Eric Cantor, the former House Republican majority leader. “And frankly, I think it reflects the fact that most Americans think he failed.”
批评者则说，这样的选举结果只能被视为一种断然否定。“选举结果毫无疑问是对奥巴马总统乃至他的政策、他的愿景以及政策执行方式的否定，”前众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)说。“坦率地说，我认为这反映了大多数美国人认为他已失败的事实。”
Indeed, Mr. Trump’s election imperils many of Mr. Obama policies, notably the health care law that has extended coverage to 20 million Americans but aggravated others who resented government intrusion and rising premiums. Mr. Trump has promised to scrap Mr. Obama’s international climate change agreement and Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact, renegotiate his Iran nuclear deal, dismantle Dodd-Frank regulations on Wall Street and reverse orders sparing millions of illegal immigrants from deportation.
特朗普的选举的确危及奥巴马政府的许多政策，特别是医疗保健法，它将医保范围扩大到2000万美国人，但惹恼了那些憎恨政府干涉和保险费上涨的人。特朗普承诺废除奥巴马的国际气候变化协议和跨太平洋伙伴关系贸易协定，承诺就伊朗核协议重新展开谈判，废除约束华尔街的《多德-弗兰克法案》(Dodd-Frank Act)，修改令数百万非法移民免遭遣返的条例。
But bold campaign rhetoric does not always translate into such clear-cut action. For instance, Mr. Eisenhower denounced Harry S. Truman’s foreign policy, only to largely adopt it after taking over. Along similar lines, Richard M. Nixon did not scrap Lyndon B. Johnson’s Great Society, and Mr. Obama ultimately preserved much of Mr. Bush’s counterterrorism program.
但大胆的竞选言辞并不总能转化为明确的行动。举例来说，艾森豪威尔谴责哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)的外交政策，但在接任后大体上沿用了这些政策。与之类似，理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)没有废弃林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)的“伟大社会”(Great Society)，奥巴马也最终保留了布什的反恐计划中的许多东西。
Mr. Obama’s team hopes Mr. Trump finds it harder to shift course than he expected. Taking health care away from millions of Americans might prove problematic, Mr. Obama’s advisers said. In recent days, Mr. Trump has said he will keep elements of the program and find a way to ensure that Americans do not lose coverage.
奥巴马的团队希望特朗普发现，改变方向比他所预期的要更难。奥巴马的顾问们说，剥夺数百万美国人的医疗保健可能会造成问题。最近几天，特朗普说他会保留该计划的若干内容，并找到方法来确保美国人不会失去医疗保险。
Moreover, although Mr. Obama said that all of his progress would go “out the window,” advisers now argue the opposite: that many accomplishments cannot be overturned. He will be remembered, they said, for pulling the country out of the Great Recession, saving the auto industry, bringing home most troops fighting overseas, killing Osama bin Laden, enacting higher fuel efficiency standards and restoring relations with Cuba.
此外，尽管奥巴马曾表示自己取得的所有进展都将“付诸东流”，但其顾问现在却认为情况恰恰相反：很多成果都不会被推翻。他们说，他会因为带领美国走出大衰退(Great Recession)、拯救汽车业、让大多数征战海外的士兵回家、除掉奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)、推行更高的燃油效率标准，以及修复与古巴的关系而被铭记。
Still, after two midterm defeats, this was the third time since taking office that voters rejected Mr. Obama’s advice. He campaigned all out for Mrs. Clinton as no departing incumbent has in modern times, only to relearn the lesson that presidents cannot transfer popularity.
不过，自从奥巴马上台以来，在民主党两度品尝中期选举失利的苦果之后，这是选民们第三次拒绝奥巴马的建议。他以现代史上其他即将离职的在任总统从未有过的高涨热情，全力以赴地为克林顿拉票，结果再次得到了同样的教训：总统无法将自己的好人缘传递给他人。
And there is no getting around the fact that Mr. Trump’s America is not Mr. Obama’s. He has said one of his biggest disappointments was failing to heal the country’s divisions. Polarization now seems worse than before.
还有一个无法回避的事实：特朗普的美国不是奥巴马的美国。他说，没能弥合这个国家的分歧是最让他感到沮丧的事情之一。眼下，两极分化看似比以前更严重了。
Mr. Obama accepts only so much responsibility for that, faulting Republican obstructionism. He points to his early days in office, when he was heading to Capitol Hill to discuss the economic crisis only to hear that Representative John A. Boehner, the top House Republican, had already rejected the new president’s stimulus package out of hand.
奥巴马对此只愿承担一部分责任，并指责共和党从中作梗。他指出，上任伊始，他前往国会山讨论关于经济危机的问题，结果却只听到身为共和党人的时任众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)已经断然否决了新总统提出的一揽子刺激方案的消息。
“When I think about the polarization that occurred in 2009 and 2010, I’ve gone back and I’ve looked at my proposals and my speeches and the steps we took to reach out to Congress,” he told the historian Doris Kearns Goodwin in a pre-election conversation published by Vanity Fair. “And the notion that we weren’t engaging Congress or that we were overly partisan or we didn’t schmooze enough, or we didn’t reach out enough to Republicans — that whole narrative just isn’t true.”
“每当想到2009年和2010年出现的两极化现象，我都会回过头去检视自己的方案、演说，以及我们采取的旨在争取国会支持的举措，”他在大选日之前告诉历史学家桃瑞丝·科恩斯·古德温(Doris Kearns Goodwin)，此次访谈被发表在了《名利场》上。“有人认为我们没有去做国会的工作，我们过分执着于党派纷争，我们没有想方设法地拉关系，或者我们没有尽量争取共和党人的支持——所有这些说法都不是事实。”
Instead, he has pointed to Republican radicalization. “I see a straight line from the announcement of Sarah Palin as the vice-presidential nominee to what we see today in Donald Trump, the emergence of the Freedom Caucus, the Tea Party and the shift in the center of gravity for the Republican Party,” he told Jonathan Chait of New York magazine this fall.
相反，他指出，共和党的极端化才是问题所在。“从萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)获得副总统候选人提名的消息，到我们眼下在唐纳德·特朗普身上看到的东西，“自由党团”(Freedom Caucus)的出现，再到茶党运动以及共和党重心的转变，我发现其中存在直接的关联，”他在今年秋天告诉《纽约》(New York)杂志的乔纳森·柴特(Jonathan Chait)。
Republicans, unsurprisingly, reject that narrative. Mr. Cantor, then Mr. Boehner’s No. 2, cited a now-famous White House meeting in those early days. In it, Mr. Cantor suggested his own economic measures only to be dismissed. “Eric, elections have consequences and I won,” he recalled the president saying.
共和党人自然会拒绝这种叙事。博纳担任议长时的众议院二号人物坎托提到了早期在白宫召开的一场现在已是人尽皆知的会议。会上，坎托就应该采取哪些经济举措提出了自己的建议，却遭到了无视。“埃里克，选举是有后果的，而我赢得了选举，”他记得总统当时说道。
Mr. Obama does not talk publicly about the role of race in the opposition to him, but it is cited by many of his supporters. Republican intransigence must be explained at least in part by race, they figure — a refusal to accept the legitimacy of the first African-American president.
奥巴马没有公开谈论过种族在自己受到的反对中所扮演的角色，但他的很多支持者都提到了这一点。他们认为，共和党拒不合作的强硬态度至少在某种程度上可以用种族方面的原因来解释——拒绝承认第一位非裔美国总统的合法性。
Yet lock-step opposition to Mr. Obama can also be explained by other factors, including political calculation and authentic philosophical disagreement. Mr. Obama’s opponents contend that he cites race to explain away valid criticism. His more virulent foes maintain that Mr. Obama is the one who fueled racial division.
不过，奥巴马遭到的此起彼伏的反对还可以用其他因素来解释，其中包括政治上的盘算和真正的观念分歧。奥巴马的反对者认为，他常常抬出种族歧视来无视合理的批评。他的一些更为刻薄的敌人则指出，奥巴马才是为种族分裂火上浇油的那个人。
Either way, Mr. Obama did not fully see the emerging threat. He dismissed Mr. Trump as a carnival barker and, like many in Washington, did not understand that much of the country was alienated enough to embrace such a figure.
不管怎样，奥巴马没有充分注意到新出现的威胁。他把特朗普斥为狂欢节上大呼小叫的揽客者。像华盛顿的不少人士一样，他没能意识到这个国家的很多人已经被疏远到了一定程度，宁愿张开双臂拥抱这样一个人物。