I DOUBT any president has been as well equipped as Barack Obama to appreciate the vicious cycle of American crime and punishment. As a community organizer in Chicago in the 1980s, he would have witnessed the way a system intended to protect the public siphoned off young black men, gave them an advanced education in brutality, and then returned them to the streets unqualified for — and too often, given the barriers to employment faced by those who have done time, disqualified from — anything but a life of more crime. He would have understood that the suffering of victims and the debasing of offenders were often two sides of the same coin.
我认为，没有哪位总统比贝拉克·奥巴马更能认识到美式罪与罚的恶性循环。20世纪80年代，他曾在芝加哥担任社区组织者，他应该目睹了这个体制如何为了保护公众，把年轻黑人男性抓走，让他们接受残暴行为洗礼，然后再让他们回到街头，没有能力从事任何工作，而且服过刑的人在找工作时往往面临着阻碍，因而也被剥夺了从事任何工作的资格，他们只能再次犯罪。他应该明白，受害者受到的折磨和罪犯的恶行通常是同一枚硬币的两面。
It’s hard to tell how deeply he actually absorbed this knowledge. In the Chicago chapters of his memoir, “Dreams From My Father,” Obama notes that in the low-income housing projects “prison records had been passed down from father to son for more than a generation,” but he has surprisingly little to say about the shadow cast by prisons on the families left behind, about the way incarceration became the default therapy for drug addicts and the mentally ill, about the abject failure of rehabilitation.
很难说他对这个问题的理解到底有多深刻。他在自己的回忆录《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)关于芝加哥的那一章中指出，在低收入者聚居区中，“犯罪记录从父亲传递到儿子，这样的情况已经持续了几代人，”但出人意料的是，他基本没提到监狱给囚犯家属的生活投下的阴影，没提到把人关进监牢其实已经成了对吸毒成瘾者和精神病患的默认治疗手段，没提到适应社会工作的悲惨失败。
Still, when the former community organizer took office, advocates of reform had high expectations.
然而，当这位前社区组织者上台执政后，倡导改革的人却对他持有很高的期待。
In March I will give up the glorious platform of The Times to help launch something new: a nonprofit journalistic venture called The Marshall Project (after Thurgood Marshall, the great courtroom champion of civil rights) and devoted to the vast and urgent subject of our broken criminal justice system. It seems fitting that my parting column should address the question of how this president has lived up to those high expectations so far.
3月，我将离开《纽约时报》这个著名的平台，去参与启动一项新计划：一个名叫“马歇尔计划”（The Marshall Project，以伟大的法庭民权捍卫者瑟古德·马歇尔[Thurgood Marshall]命名）的非营利性新闻企业，专注于我们这个出现故障的刑事司法系统中一些广泛而急迫的问题。我临别前的这一篇文章似乎应该谈一谈这位总统目前在多大程度上实现了人们对他的高期望。
I’ll begin by making his excuses. The president’s powers in this area are limited. The action (and there is a lot of it right now) is mostly at the state level. His first term was entangled in economic crisis and health care. This president has faced tireless and often petty resistance from the Republican House on almost every initiative. Historically Democrats have risked being Willie-Horton’ed if they don’t maintain a tougher-than-tough-on-crime posture. And African-American constituents — who are also disproportionately the victims of crime — are not necessarily bleeding-heart voters. In short, it was probably naïve to assume that Obama was going to be the Criminal Justice Reform President.
首先，我要替他找一些借口。总统在这个领域的权力是有限的。具体行动（目前有许多行动）大多集中在州的层面。他的第一任期深受经济危机和医疗问题困扰。他几乎在每项提议上都会受到众议院共和党人无休止的、而且往往较为琐碎恼人的阻挠。从历史上来看，如果民主党人不对犯罪采取更强硬的立场，他们就可能被指责纵容了威利·霍顿（Willie-Horton，一名被判终身监禁不得假释的罪犯，在得到周末离狱假后继续犯罪。——译注）之类的人。而且非洲裔美国人——他们作为犯罪受害者的比例也远远高于其他族裔——并不一定都是容易受情感左右的选民。简而言之，认为奥巴马将成为“刑事司法改革总统”的想法或许太过天真。
And yet Obama took office at a time of tidal shifts. The economics of imprisonment, the ebbing of crime rates, the horror stories of overcrowded penitentiaries and the persistent activism of reform advocates had begun to generate a public consensus that merely caging people is not a crime-fighting strategy. Fiscal conservatives alarmed at the high cost of incarceration, evangelicals shocked by the waste of lives, and libertarians who spotted another realm of government power abused have clambered onto what was once a liberal bandwagon. (How much those conservatives will be willing to invest in alternative ways of protecting the public — drug treatment, more intensive parole and probation programs, job training and so on — is another question.)
而且奥巴马上任时，美国正在经历大转变。监狱系统的经济状况、下降的犯罪率、监狱人满为患的恐怖故事，以及改革倡导者坚持不懈的活动，都已经开始促使人们认为，单纯把人关起来并不是对抗犯罪的策略。财政问题上的保守主义者对关押囚犯的高成本心存警惕，福音派信徒则为生命的荒废到震惊，发现了又一处政府权力滥用问题的自由意志论者攀上了一度属于自由派的潮流。（那些保守派人士愿意在其他方式上投入多少来保护公众——治疗毒瘾、更严密的假释和缓刑项目、工作培训等等——就是另一个问题了。）
In his first term Obama did not make this a signature issue; he rarely mentioned the subject. But his proxy, Attorney General Eric Holder Jr., was outspoken from the start. Six months into the first term, he was already at the Vera Institute of Justice in New York talking about the social costs of mass incarceration and pressing for policies that would divert low-level drug offenders to treatment and ease the re-entry of former prisoners into a productive life. In the last five years, Holder has become increasingly bold, and encountered little backlash. This month he exhorted states to repeal policies that deny felons the right to vote, policies that disenfranchise 5.8 million Americans, including nearly one in 13 African-American adults. He framed it not just as an act of compassion but as a way of re-engaging prodigal souls.
在第一个任期中，奥巴马没有把这个问题列为主要问题；他极少提到此事。但是他的代理人、司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)从一开始就很坦率直言。在第一任期半年之后，他已经在纽约的维拉司法研究所(Vera Institute of Justice)谈论大规模关押囚犯所需要的社会成本以及相关的政策，如极力推动把情节轻微的毒品罪犯送去接受治疗，为前服刑人员重新过上有所作为的生活提供方便。过去五年，霍尔德变得越来越大胆，而且甚少遇到强烈反对。本月，他还劝导各州废除剥夺重罪犯投票权的政策，这些政策剥夺了580万美国公民的权利，其中在几乎每13名非洲裔美国人中，就有一人的权利被剥夺。他提出这一点不仅是出于同情，还希望这样做能换来浪子回头。
“By perpetuating the stigma and isolation imposed on formerly incarcerated individuals, these laws increase the likelihood they will commit future crimes,” Holder said.
霍尔德说，“这些法律将前服刑人员的耻辱和被孤立的状态永久保持了下来，增加了他们未来继续犯罪的可能性。”
“All that sounds very good,” said Michelle Alexander, the legal scholar who wrote “The New Jim Crow,” a scorching 2010 indictment of the racialized war on drugs. ”And it is good, because for decades the rhetoric was running in the other direction. But if the rhetoric is not matched with action ... then it is fair to wonder whether the shift in rhetoric reflects significant shifts in public opinion in recent years, rather than a real commitment to these issues and a willingness to take political risks.”
“这些听起来非常棒，”《新吉姆·克罗》(The New Jim Crow)的作者、法律学者米歇尔·亚历山大(Michelle Alexander)说，她的这本2010年的作品对带有种族偏见的反毒品战争进行了猛烈抨击。“而且的确很棒，因为数十年来的政治话语都在朝另一个方向发展。但是，倘若言行是不一的……那么我们不免怀疑，近年来话语的转变是否反映的是公众观念的显著变化，而非对这些问题产生了真正的重视和承担政治风险的意愿。”
In practice, the administration’s record has been more incremental than its rhetoric.
奥巴马政府在这方面的实际作为比话语的转变更缓慢。
By the crudest metric, the population of our prisons, the Obama administration has been unimpressive. The famously shocking numbers of Americans behind bars (the U.S., with 5 percent of the world’s people, incarcerates nearly a quarter of all prisoners on earth) have declined three years in a row. However the overall downsizing is largely thanks to California and a handful of other states. In overstuffed federal prisons, the population continues to grow, fed in no small part by Obama’s crackdown on immigration violators.
从监狱在押人数这个最粗略的指标来看，奥巴马政府的表现并无特别之处。美国令人震惊的囚犯人数（美国只有世界上5%的人口，却关押着世界上将近四分之一的囚犯。），已经在三年内连续下跌。不过，囚犯人数的整体减少在很大程度上还要感谢加州和其他一些州。在过于拥挤的联邦监狱内，人数还在继续增加，奥巴马对移民违规者的打击也在相当程度上增加了入狱者人数。
The administration has some achievements to tout. Obama signed the 2010 Fair Sentencing Act, and has put some muscle behind the Smarter Sentencing Act, two measures aimed at making drug-sentencing laws less absurd. Holder has issued guidance to prosecutors to avoid routinely seeking maximum sentences for low-level offenders — though it’s not clear yet whether prosecutors are going along. The administration created an Interagency Reentry Council that uses federal guidance to whittle away at the barriers to employment, housing and education so that released prisoners have some hope of becoming productive citizens.
奥巴马政府也取得了一些值得夸耀的成就。奥巴马签署了2010年公平量刑法案(Fair Sentencing Act)，并且多少强化了明智量刑法案(Smarter Sentencing Act)，这两方面举措的目的在于让与毒品相关的量刑法律看起来不那么荒谬可笑。霍尔德则给检察官发布了指导意见，让他们避免例行公事地对初级违法者申请进行最大限度的惩罚——虽然目前尚不清楚检察官是否会俯首听命。政府设立了一个重入社会跨部门委员会(Interagency Reentry Council)，这个委员会利用联邦指导意见减少获释罪犯在工作、住房和教育方面所受到的阻碍，从而让他们有望成为具备生产力的公民。
At the same time, long after the War on Drugs has been recognized as a failure, there has been little serious effort to cut the number of federal drug prosecutions, or to shift money from incarceration to drug treatment. Alexander cites as a significant disappointment the continued federal reluctance to decriminalize marijuana, despite Obama’s acknowledgment to David Remnick of The New Yorker that pot is less harmful than alcohol and that the laws are mostly enforced against poor minorities. Another missed opportunity: he could have pushed more aggressively to fill district and circuit court vacancies with judges who would buck the status quo.
同时，在人们认识到反毒品战争(War on Drugs)是个失败很长时间之后，政府并没有真正有所作为，来减少与毒品相关的联邦诉讼，或者把资金从关押犯人转移到吸毒者治疗上。亚历山大认为，联邦政府仍然不愿意将大麻合法化的态度十分令人失望，虽然奥巴马曾向《纽约客》(The New Yorker)的大卫·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)承认，大麻的危害性还不及酒精，而且该法的执行对象大部分是贫穷的少数族裔。奥巴马还错失了另一个机遇：他原本可以以更大的力度来让反对现状的法官填补区级和巡回法院的空缺职位。
Obama has also been the stingiest of recent presidents in using his powers of pardon and commutation to undo the damage of the crack panic and of sentencing that keeps prisoners in lockup long past the age when they represent a danger. Marc Levin, director of the Center for Effective Justice at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank with a justice reform agenda, points out that in his first term Obama pardoned one in 50 applicants while Ronald Reagan pardoned one in three. Late last year Obama commuted the sentences of eight drug offenders, out of more than 8,000 federal convicts serving time under outdated crack laws.
在近几届总统当中，奥巴马最吝于使用赦免和减刑权力，因而没能消除与可卡因恐慌相关的判决带来的伤害，没能消除刑期过长带来的伤害（一些罪犯的年龄早已使他们不再构成危险）。德州公共政策基金会(Texas Public Policy Foundation)有效司法中心(Center for Effective Justice)负责人马克·莱文(Marc Levin)指出，在第一任期内，每50名申请者中，奥巴马会赦免一位，而罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的赦免比例为三分之一。去年晚些时候，在8000多名依据过时的可卡因法律服刑的联邦罪犯中，奥巴马减轻了八名罪犯的刑罚。
Obama is, we know, a cautious man, leery of getting ahead of public opinion and therefore sometimes far behind it. And some reform advocates argue that it made sense for Obama to keep a low profile until a broad bipartisan consensus had gathered. That time has come. Now that Obama-scorners like Senators Rand Paul and Mike Lee and even Ted Cruz are slicing off pieces of justice reform for their issue portfolios, now that red states like Texas, Georgia, South Carolina, Missouri and Kentucky have embraced alternatives to prison, criminal justice is one of those rare areas where there is common ground to be explored and tested.
我们知道，奥巴马是谨慎的人，对先于舆论的行动会慎之又慎，因此有时会远远落后。一些倡导改革的人认为，对奥巴马来说，在两党达成广泛共识前保持低调是明智之选。而这一时机已然到来。既然参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)、迈克·李(Mike Lee)和特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)等藐视奥巴马的人因为自己关注的议题组合，而想要从司法改革中分得一杯羹，既然德克萨斯州、乔治亚州、南卡罗来那州、密苏里州和肯塔基州等支持共和党的红州赞成利用其他处罚代替监禁，刑事司法已成为可以探索和检验共识的罕见领域之一。
The Obama presidency has almost three years to go, and there is reason to hope that he will feel less constrained, that the eight commutations were not just a pittance but, as he put it, “a first step,” that Holder’s mounting enthusiasm for saner sentencing is not just talk, but prelude, that the president will use his great pulpit to prick our conscience.
奥巴马的任期还有将近三年，我们有理由期待他会感到更加自如，我们希望这八个减刑案例不只是个案，而是像问他说的那样，是“第一步”，也希望霍尔德对更合乎情理的判决的热情不仅仅是说说而已，而是一段前奏，最终总统将利用他的巨大影响力去触动我们的良心。
“This is something that matters to the president,” Holder assured me last week. “This is, I think, going to be seen as a defining legacy for this administration.”
“对于总统来说，这是非常重要的事情，”霍尔德上周向我保证。“我认为，这将被视作决定本届政府历史遗产的一项政绩。”
I’ll be watching, and hoping that Holder’s prediction is more than wishful thinking.
我会继续关注，也希望霍尔德的预言不只是良好的愿望。