President Obama plans to announce a set of ambitious proposals on Thursday aimed at making colleges more accountable and affordable by rating them and ultimately linking those ratings to financial aid.
奥巴马总统计划于周四宣布一系列颇为大胆的提案，希望能使大学更加负责、学费更加合理，而达到这一目标的途径是给大学评分，并最终把评分结果与财政援助联系起来。
A draft of the proposal, obtained by The New York Times and likely to cause some consternation among colleges, shows a plan to rate colleges before the 2015 school year based on measures like tuition, graduation rates, debt and earnings of graduates, and the percentage of lower-income students who attend. If the plan can win Congressional approval, the idea is to base federal financial aid to students attending the colleges partly on those rankings.  
《纽约时报》获得了提案草稿。其中的计划显示，大学评分工作将在2015学年前完成，标准包括学费、毕业率、毕业生的债务和收入水平，以及低收入学生所占的比例等。它很可能会在高等院校中引发一些惊慌情绪。如果计划能得到国会批准，那么联邦政府对大学生的财政援助将部分由这些评分来决定。
“All the things we’re measuring are important for students choosing a college,” a senior administration official said. “It’s important to us that colleges offer good value for their tuition dollars, and that higher education offer families a degree of security so students aren’t left with debt they can’t pay back.”
“对于正在挑选大学的学生来说，我们衡量的东西都很重要，”奥巴马政府的一名高级官员称。“大学要提供对得起学费的教育，高等教育也要为家庭提供一定程度的保障，让学生不会欠下自己无力偿还的债务。对我们而言，这些事情都很重要。”
Mr. Obama hopes that starting in 2018, the ratings would be tied to financial aid, so that students at highly rated colleges might get larger federal grants and more affordable loans. But that would require new legislation.
奥巴马希望，从2018年开始把评分结果与财政援助联系起来。这样一来，在排名靠前的学校就读的学生可能会得到较多的联邦拨款，以及更易于偿还的助学贷款。但是，这样做还需要新的立法。
“I think there is bipartisan support for some of these ideas, as we’ve seen in states where the governors have been working on them,” said the administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to disclose information not yet made public.
“我认为，其中一些理念会获得两党的共同支持，因为我们已经看到有些州的州长一直在实践这些理念，”这名政府官员说。由于披露了仍未公布的信息，该官员要求匿名。
Ohio, Tennessee and Indiana have made moves toward linking aid to educational outcomes. But in the divisive Congressional atmosphere, it is not clear how much backing there would be for such proposals. Earlier this year, the administration introduced an online college scorecard, making public some of the information to be included in the ratings, to help families evaluate different colleges. Graduates’ earnings, however, will be a new data point, and one that higher education experts say is especially tricky to make meaningful.
俄亥俄州、田纳西州和印第安纳州已经采取了一些举措，准备把财政援助与教育成果联系起来。然而，目前仍无法确定，这样的提案能在充满分歧的国会中得到多少支持。今年早些时候，奥巴马政府推出了网上大学记分系统，上面公布了将包括在评分中的一些信息，以供学生家庭比较不同的院校。不过，毕业生收入将成为数据中的新增项目。一些高等教育专家表示，让这项数据具有实际意义将会尤其棘手。
“There are all kinds of issues, like deciding how far down the road you are looking, and which institutions are comparable,” said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education. “Ultimately, the concern is that the Department of Education will develop a formula and impose it without adequate consultation, and that’s what drives campus administrators nuts.”
“其间涉及的问题太多了，比如，确定要考虑毕业后多长时间，还有哪些院校可以拿来进行类比，”美国教育委员会(American Council on Education)的高级副会长特里·W·哈特尔(Terry W. Hartle)说。“说到底，人们担心联邦教育部会在未经充分协商的情况下拿出一套准则，然后强制推行。这就是让大学管理者们抓狂的地方。”
Almost all of the federal government’s $150 billion in annual student aid is distributed based on the number of students a college enrolls, regardless of how many graduate or how much debt they incur. Under the new proposal, students could still attend whatever college they chose, public or private, but taxpayer support would shift to higher-ranked schools.
联邦政府每年用于援助学生的资金为1500亿美元（约合9200亿元人民币），几乎全部按照大学的注册人数来分配，并没有考虑毕业人数，或是学生将背上多少债务。根据新提案，学生还是可以选择就读任何大学，不论是公立院校还是私立院校，但纳税人的援助将会向评分较高的学校倾斜。
The proposal that Mr. Obama will begin campaigning for on Thursday urges colleges to experiment with approaches that reduce costs. The plan mentions so-called competency-based degrees, in which college credits are based not on the hours students spend in classrooms, but on how much they can show they know.
奥巴马将于周四开始为这项提案造势。提案督促各高等院校在削减开支方面进行尝试。文中还提到了“以能力为本的学位”制度，即大学授予学分不再取决于学生上课的时长，而是取决于他们能展示出的知识水平。
Another approach mentioned in the plan is online education through what have become known as “massive open online courses,” or MOOCs, which are mostly free. Mr. Obama will also urge consideration of three-year degree programs and dual enrollment programs in which high school students can begin to earn college credits.
该计划还提到了另一种方法，即通过“大型公开在线课程”（Massive Open Online Course，简称MOOC）来进行网络教育，而且大部分课程都是免费的。此外，奥巴马将敦促各院校考虑开展三年制学位项目和双注册项目，后者允许高中生修大学学分。
“This isn’t something that’s going to be fully driven by the federal government, but the president can tell colleges that  there’s people out there doing good things, you should look at them, try them and try to do better — and here’s where we can help,” the administration official said.
该政府官员称，“这件事将不会完全由联邦政府来推动，不过总统可以对高等院校说，有人在做一些很好的事情，你们应该看看这些做法，尝试一下并努力做得更好——这就是我们能够协助的地方。”
There is some money available for such efforts, including $500 million for community colleges, and the administration is seeking more. So far, though, it has failed to convince Congress to pay for Race to the Top competition for higher education, under which grants would go to those colleges with promising approaches.
已有一些资金可以用于这些工作，比如拨给社区大学的5亿美元，而且奥巴马政府还在寻求更多的经费。然而，截至目前，政府还未能说服国会为高等教育的“力争上游”计划(Race to the Top)出资。根据该计划，提出较有潜力做法的院校将获得拨款。
With or without more financing, the president plans to offer regulatory waivers to colleges that serve as experimental sites promoting high-quality, low-cost innovations in higher education, especially those that make it possible for students to get financial aid based on how much they learn, rather than how much time they spend in class. He also wants to let colleges offer Pell Grants, federal aid based on need, to high school students taking college courses.
无论有没有更多的资金来源，奥巴马都打算让推行高质量、低成本创新项目的高等教育试点学校免于监管，尤其是允许学生根据掌握的知识容量、而非上课时长来获得奖学金的那些学校。他还希望，高等院校向修大学课程的高中生提供由联邦政府按需发放的佩尔助学金(Pell Grants)。
In a letter to supporters this week, Mr. Obama said that tinkering around the edges would not be enough. and that the changes he was proposing in his two-state, three-campus tour beginning Thursday, “won’t be popular with everyone — including some who’ve made higher education their business — but it’s past time that more of our colleges work better for the students they exist to serve.”
在本周写给支持者的信中，奥巴马称，只处理边边角角的问题还不够，尽管他将在周四开始的巡回访问中提出的变革“不会受到每个人的欢迎，比如把高等教育变成生意的一些人，但是，早就应当有更多的大学更加努力地为学生服务，因为大学存在的意义就在于服务学生”。他此次访问的地点将涵盖两个州的三所学校。
Mr. Obama will champion his ideas on a two-day bus tour, at town hall-style meetings on college campuses across upstate New York and Pennsylvania.
奥巴马将乘大巴进行为期两天的访问。届时，他将在纽约州北部和宾夕法尼亚州的三所大学校园里召开市镇集会式的对话活动，宣扬自己的理念。