WASHINGTON — His ambitions in check and his eye on the calendar, President Obama intends to use his State of the Union address to put a difficult year behind him and reassert command before the capital is consumed with election-year politics.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统收敛雄心，注视着日历，打算利用他的国情咨文(State of the Union)演说把这艰难的一年抛在身后，在华盛顿充满选举年政治之前，巩固自己的控制权。
After five years in office, Mr. Obama has, by his own account, come to feel acutely the limits on his power and the shrinking horizons before him — all of which make his nationally televised speech to Congress on Tuesday a critical opportunity to drive an agenda that may yet shape his legacy.
执政五年后，奥巴马自己终于明显感觉到，他的权力有限，而且发挥空间也在不断缩小——所有这一切都让他周二将于全国播出的国会演说成了一个推动议程的关键机会，这个议程可能会在未来帮助塑造他所留下的政治遗产。
But perhaps more so than in any of his previous congressional addresses, Mr. Obama realizes that he has little chance of major legislative victories this year, with the possible exception of an overhaul of immigration law that Republicans are also making a priority. As a result, aides said, he will present a blueprint for “a year of action” on issues like income inequality and the environment that bypasses Congress and exercises his authority to the maximum extent.
但是，比起以往任何一次国会演说，奥巴马这一次更加明显地意识到，自己今年在立法方面取得重大胜利的机会十分渺茫，除了在移民法案上可能会有所突破——一场共和党同样重视的移民法改革。所以，奥巴马的助手说，他将针对收入不平等和环境等能够绕过国会程序、能让他最大限度发挥自身权力的议题，提出“一年的行动”蓝图。
“This presidency is not going to be defined from here forward by big legislative initiatives,” said Jeff Shesol, a speechwriter for President Bill Clinton who was consulted by this White House. “Given that, he’s got to convey a sense of focus and forward momentum. He’s got a lot of time left in this presidency, and I think people will want to get the sense that he knows how to operate in this environment and that there is a strategy.”
“今后，这届总统的功绩将不取决于重大立法提议，”担任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统演讲稿撰写人、曾为现今白宫提供咨询的杰夫·谢索(Jeff Shesol)说。“有鉴于此，他需要表现出专注和前进的势头。他的任期还有很长，我认为人们肯定希望看到，他知道如何在这种环境下操作，也有着自己的战略。”
After failing to push through gun control legislation and other priorities he raised in last year’s State of the Union address, Mr. Obama must take a different approach this year, aides and analysts said.
助手和分析人士说，奥巴马未能成功推行他在去年的国情咨文演说中提到的枪支管控和其他重大事项，所以他今年必须采用不同的策略。
“Pushing for a series of new initiatives when last year’s initiatives still need to get done is a challenge,” said Neera Tanden, president of the left-leaning Center for American Progress. “At the same time, he probably shouldn’t be limited to what the House of Representatives could pass, because that would be an incredibly limited vision.”
“在去年的提议尚未得到完全实施的情况下提出诸多新提议是有挑战性的，”左倾的美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)负责人尼拉·坦登(NeeraTanden)说。“同时，他不应该只局限于众议院可能通过的内容，因为这将非常有局限性。”
Mr. Obama will still use the speech to push for an immigration overhaul, with aides guardedly optimistic that he may reach a compromise with Republicans. He will also call for a higher minimum wage, more infrastructure spending and an expansion of prekindergarten education, issues on which the parties are less likely to agree.
奥巴马还是会利用此次演讲来推动移民法案改革，对于他或许能与共和党人达成妥协，助手持谨慎的乐观态度。他还可能会呼吁提高最低工资水平、增加基础设施建设的开支和扩大学龄前儿童的教育规模，两党很可能会在这些问题上产生分歧。
White House officials said Mr. Obama would use the speech to announce executive actions he can take without congressional approval to expand economic opportunity for middle-class workers in areas like retirement security and job training. The officials expressed hope that these actions would prod Congress to take further steps.
白宫官员表示，奥巴马将利用此次演讲宣布他无需国会批准就能采取的行政行动，以此在退休保障和工作训练等方面扩大中产阶级工作者的经济机会。官员表示，他们希望这些行动能促使国会采取进一步措施。
In an email to supporters on Saturday, the president’s senior adviser, Dan Pfeiffer, characterized Mr. Obama’s coming message as “opportunity, action and optimism” and promised “a set of real, concrete, practical proposals” to strengthen the economy and expand opportunity.
总统的高级顾问高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)在周六写给支持者的电子邮件中说奥巴马即将传达的讯息是“一次机遇、一次行动，充满了乐观情绪”，并承诺要采取“一系列真实、具体而务实的行动”来加强经济，扩大机会。
But Mr. Pfeiffer acknowledged the limits. “The president will seek out as many opportunities as possible to work with Congress in a bipartisan way,” he wrote. “But when American jobs and livelihoods depend on getting something done, he will not wait for Congress.”
但是，法伊弗也承认局限性的存在。“总统将尽可能多地寻找能代表两党立场的与国会合作的机会，”他写道，“但是如果我们需要为了美国人民的就业机会和生计而采取一些行动，他是不会等待国会的。”
To counter Mr. Obama’s increased focus on economic disparities, Republicans are trying to turn the issue around on him, arguing that his own policies on jobs, deficit spending, regulations and health care have exacerbated income inequality.
由于奥巴马更加重视经济差异，共和党人便试图反咬一口，在这个问题上对他进行反驳。共和党说，他在就业、赤字开支、管理条例和医改方面的政策都加剧了收入不平等的状况。
“The president has a lot of explaining to do,” Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri said on Saturday in a Republican radio and Internet address. “If all he has to offer is more of the same, or if he refuses to acknowledge that his own policies have failed to work, the president is simply doing what many failed leaders have done before him: trying to set one group of Americans against another group of Americans.”
“总统要解释的内容很多，”密苏里州参议员罗伊·布朗特(Roy Blunt)周六在共和党电台和网络上发表演讲时说。“如果他没有什么新想法，或者说他拒绝承认自己的政策没起作用，他的行为就与之前失败的许多领导人没什么两样：在两群美国人之间挑拨离间。”
Mr. Obama’s sense of possibility has contracted. A year after an intoxicating re-election victory, when he had a 57 percent approval rating, his support has fallen to 42 percent. Within months, lawmakers will be absorbed by their own campaigns in the midterm elections, and after that, Washington will begin to turn its focus to the contest to succeed Mr. Obama.
奥巴马对于可能性的信心也开始降低。当年，奥巴马以57%的支持率重新当选，其结果令人振奋；一年之后，他的支持率降到了42%。几个月后，议员们就将把全部注意力放在自己中期选举的竞选上，而在此之后，华盛顿也将把注意力转移到接替奥巴马的竞争中。
So these days, Mr. Obama envisions a more modest place in the tide of history. “At the end of the day, we’re part of a long-running story,” he told David Remnick of The New Yorker. “We just try to get our paragraph right.”
所以这段时间，奥巴马也不认为自己会在历史浪潮中占据非常重要的地位了。“到最后，我们也只是一部长篇故事的部分内容，”他告诉《纽约客》(The New Yorker)的戴维·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)。“我们只想尽职尽责。”
Mr. Obama said that while he might not accomplish his goals during his tenure, he hoped to plant seeds. “The things you start may not come to full fruition on your timetable,” he told Mr. Remnick. “But you can move things forward. And sometimes the things that start small may turn out to be fairly significant.”
奥巴马说，虽然他或许无法在任期内完成自己的目标，但是他希望能播下种子。“你开创的事业或许无法按照你预定的期限来开花结果，”他告诉雷姆尼克，“但是你可以推动事情的发展。而且有时起初微小的事情最后也会变得非常伟大。”
The seemingly diminished expectations expressed in those comments surprised many in Washington, where presidents rarely acknowledge limits. Concerned about the impression Mr. Obama had left, aides warned against overanalyzing his words and said he was reinvigorated after the setbacks of 2013.
这些评论中所表达的看似减小的期望让华盛顿的许多人倍感震惊，因为总统们很少会承认局限性的存在。由于对奥巴马留下的这种印象感到担心，助手警告人们不应该对他的话进行过度分析，而且还表示经过2013年的挫折，他又重新恢复了活力。
“He’s very focused and very excited about all the ways we can move the ball forward if Congress isn’t willing to go along, accepting of the reality that no Congress of the other party tends to green-light the agenda of the president of the opposite party,” Mr. Pfeiffer said in an interview. “He’s energized by the creative thinking going into the ways to move forward.”
“倘若国会不愿意提供支持，他就会对我们能采取的所有举措非常专注、非常兴奋，就会接受这样一个事实，即没有哪个党的国会会支持对立党派的总统的议程，”法伊弗在采访中说。“他因为推动事情发展的创造性思维而获得了活力。”
Mr. Obama is hardly the first president to recognize the disparity between the perception and the reality of his power. In his last year in office, George W. Bush was asked by an aide what had surprised him about being president. “How little authority I have,” he answered.
奥巴马应该不是第一位意识到自己理解的权力和实际的权力之间有明显差距的总统。在执政的最后一年，一名助手问乔治·W·布什，当上总统后什么事情让他感到意外。“我的权力太小了，”他回答道。
But that does not mean a president is without options if Congress is against him. Mr. Obama recently turned to John D. Podesta, Mr. Clinton’s former chief of staff, to test the boundaries of executive authority, using what Mr. Pfeiffer calls the power of his pen and phone.
但这并不意味着当国会和总统对着干时，总统就束手无策。最近，奥巴马求助于克林顿的前幕僚长约翰•D•波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)，试探自己行政权力的界限，用的则是法伊弗所谓的笔和电话的力量。
Even if Mr. Obama does not persuade lawmakers, he has a chance to frame the national conversation, an effort he will continue with a two-day trip to Maryland, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Tennessee. While interest in the State of the Union address has fallen — the television ratings last year were the second lowest in 20 years — it is still an opportunity to reach more than 30 million Americans unfiltered.
即便奥巴马不去说服议员们，他也有机会影响全国舆论，他将用两天时间走访马里兰州、宾夕法尼亚州、威斯康星州和田纳西州，以此来继续这一努力。尽管民众对国情咨文演说的兴趣已经减弱了——去年的电视收视率属20年来倒数第二低——但这依然是一个在没有阻隔的情况下让3000多万美国人听到他声音的机会 。
“For that one night, he’ll have the spotlight the way no other person in the country will have all year,” said Robert Schlesinger, author of “White House Ghosts,” a history of presidential speechwriters. “As limited as the powers of the bully pulpit are, especially in the communications age, that still ain’t nothing.”
“那晚，他所受到的关注是整个一年这个国家的哪个人都没法相比的，”讲述总统演讲稿撰稿人故事的著作《白宫魅影》(White House Ghosts)的作者罗伯特•施莱辛格 (Robert Schlesinger)说，“尽管这个舞台影响力有限，尤其是在如今的通讯时代，但它也并非一无是处。”