WASHINGTON — It began at 6 p.m. Thursday as a conspiratorial rant on conservative talk radio: President Barack Obama had used the “instrumentalities of the federal government” to wiretap the Republican seeking to succeed him. This “is the big scandal,” Mark Levin, the host, told his listeners.
华盛顿——事情始于周四晚上6点。一档保守派电台脱口秀上响起一阵阴谋论咆哮：贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统曾使用“联邦政府的手段”监听那个寻求接替他的共和党人。节目主持人马克·莱文(Mark Levin)对听众说，这是“大丑闻”。
By Friday morning, the unsubstantiated allegation had been picked up by Breitbart News, the site once headed by President Donald Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen Bannon. Less than 24 hours later, the president embraced the conspiracy in a series of Twitter posts accusing his predecessor of spying on him, setting in motion the latest head-spinning, did-he-really-say-that furor of Trump’s 6-week-old presidency.
到周五上午，曾由唐纳德·特朗普总统的首席策略师史蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)领导的网站布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)报道了这一未经证实的指控。不到24小时后，特朗普总统在Twitter上的一系列帖子中相信了这个阴谋，指责前任暗中监视自己，引发了他担任总统六周以来的最新一起令人头晕目眩的事件，人们纷纷惊呼，总统真的说出这种话来？
Previous presidents usually measured their words to avoid a media feeding frenzy, but Trump showed again over the weekend that he feeds off the frenzy. Uninhibited by the traditional protocols of his office, he makes the most incendiary assertions based on shreds of suspicion. He does so without consulting some of his most senior aides, or even agencies of his own government that might have contrary information. After setting off a public firestorm with no proof, he then calls for an investigation to find the missing evidence.
前任总统通常都字斟句酌，以避免引发媒体的疯狂报道，但特朗普在周末再次表明，他以媒体的疯狂报道为生。他不顾自己职位的传统礼节，凭借些许怀疑便给出最具煽动性的论断。他这么做时没有咨询他的亲信，甚至他自己领导的政府中或许掌握着相反信息的机构。在无凭无据地引发轩然大波后，他才要求开展调查，寻找缺失的证据。
To his adversaries, Trump’s bomb-throwing seems like a calculated strategy to distract from another story he wants to avoid. In this case, they said Sunday, he clearly wanted to turn the conversation away from Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who recused himself last week from any federal investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties with Russia in response to reports that he had met with Russia’s ambassador during the presidential race. Instead of what Sessions did or did not do, the Sunday talk shows were dominated by discussion about what Obama did or did not do.
在他的对手看来，特朗普扔炸弹的做法似乎是一项经过深思熟虑的策略，为的是转移对他想避免的另一个故事的关注。他们在周日表示，特朗普显然想把话题从司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)身上转移走。上周，针对有报道称他曾在总统竞选期间和俄罗斯大使举行过会面，塞申斯请求回避对特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯的关系展开的一切联邦调查。但周日的脱口秀节目讨论的主要是奥巴马做了什么或没做什么，而不是塞申斯做了或没做什么。
But in shifting the story, Trump also kept the Russia investigation front and center, rather than his initiatives on health care, taxes or jobs. His first address to Congress, which won him plaudits for being presidential, was last week but now feels ages ago. Even some Republicans pointed out that if an eavesdropping warrant had been approved, it would mean that a judge was convinced that someone in Trump’s circle might have committed a crime or acted as a foreign agent.
但在转移话题的同时，特朗普也让有关俄罗斯的调查，而不是他在医保、税收或就业方面的行动成为核心话题。首次国会演说为他赢得了颇有总统风范的赞誉。演说是上周举行的，但现在感觉像是几十年前的事。就连一些共和党人也指出，如果窃听令获得了批准，就意味着法官确信在特朗普的圈子里，有人可能犯罪了，或是充当了外国间谍。
“I’m very worried that our president is suggesting that the former president has done something illegally,” Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., told the audience at a town hall-style meeting in his home state over the weekend. At the same time, he said, “I would be very worried if, in fact, the Obama administration was able to obtain a warrant lawfully about Trump campaign activity with a foreign government.”
“我对我们的总统说前总统做了违法的事情非常担心，”南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)周末在家乡一个类似于市镇厅会议的场合说。与此同时，他说，“如果奥巴马政府实际上是合法获得授权，调查特朗普的竞选活动与外国政府的关系，我也会非常担心。”
The White House remained firm Sunday even after Obama’s office denied ordering a wiretap and James Clapper, the former director of national intelligence, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that there had been no wiretapping of Trump or his campaign. James Comey, the FBI director, privately asked the Justice Department to issue a statement that Trump’s claim was false, senior officials said, but the department had not done so as of Sunday evening.
周日，即便在奥巴马的办公室否认曾下令监听，前国家情报总监詹姆斯·克拉珀(James Clapper)也在NBC的《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目上表示没有监听特朗普或其竞选团队后，白宫依然态度坚决。高级官员称，联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)曾在私底下请求司法部发布一份声明，宣布特朗普的说法不实，但截至周日晚上，司法部尚未这么做。
“Everybody acts like President Trump is the one that came up with this idea and just threw it out there,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, a White House spokeswoman, said on “This Week” on ABC News. “There are multiple news outlets that have reported this. And all we’re asking is that we get the same level of look into the Obama administration and the potential that they had for a complete abuse of power that they’ve been claiming that we have done over the last six months.”
“大家的表现好像是说，这件事是特朗普总统凭空想出来然后公布的，”白宫发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在ABC新闻(ABC News)的《本周》(This Week)节目上说。“已有多家新闻机构报道此事。我们想要的，只是对奥巴马政府和他们完全滥用权力的可能性进行同等程度的调查。过去六个月里，他们一直声称我们滥用权力。”
Sanders pointed to reports in “multiple outlets,” including The New York Times, as the foundation for the allegation. Levin, the radio host, likewise read from a series of mainstream news reports during an appearance on “Fox & Friends” on Sunday.
桑德斯提到了包括《纽约时报》在内的“多家新闻机构”的报道，作为相关指控的依据。周日现身《福克斯与朋友们》(Fox & Friends)节目时，前述电台主持人莱文同样是从一系列主流新闻报道中了解相关情况的。
“The evidence is overwhelming,” he said. “This is not about President Trump’s tweeting. This is about the Obama administration’s spying, and the question isn’t whether it spied.” He added, “The question is who they did spy on, the extent of the spying — that is, the Trump campaign, the Trump transition, Trump surrogates.”
“证据惊人，”他说。“此事无关特朗普总统发推文。此事关乎奥巴马政府的监视行为，问题不在于它是不是进行过监视。”他补充说，“问题在于他们监视的对象，监视的程度——他们监视的对象是特朗普的竞选团队、特朗普的过渡团队、特朗普的代理人。”
But the news organizations he and Sanders cited have not reported that Obama tapped Trump’s phones, as the president claimed on Twitter. The Times has reported that several of Trump’s associates are being investigated for their connections with Russians and that law enforcement agencies have examined intercepted communications. It has not reported that those associates themselves have necessarily been wiretapped, but it has reported surveillance of Russians, which is commonplace.
但他和桑德斯提到的新闻机构并没有像特朗普在Twitter上宣称的那样，报道称奥巴马监听了特朗普的电话。时报的报道是说，特朗普的多名幕僚正因与俄罗斯的关系接受调查，且执法机构已对截获的信息进行了调查。时报并未报道这些幕僚本人肯定被监听了，但的确报道了对俄罗斯的监视。后者不足为奇。
News outlets have noted that a phone call between Michael Flynn, Trump’s first national security adviser, and Russia’s ambassador to the United States, Sergei Kislyak, was monitored, leading to Flynn’s resignation because his account of the conversation did not match the intercept. It is common for the United States to monitor the communications of Russia’s ambassador.
新闻机构指出，特朗普的首位国家安全顾问迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)与俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·基斯利亚克(Sergei Kislyak)的一次电话通话被监听了，导致弗林辞职，因为他对那次通话的描述与监听到的内容不符。美国监听俄罗斯大使的通讯是常事。
The Times also reported that before leaving office, Obama officials tried to spread information about Russian meddling in the election and possible links between Russia and Trump associates, in order to leave a trail for government investigators.
时报还报道，在离任前，奥巴马政府的官员试图传播有关俄罗斯干预大选的信息，以及俄罗斯与特朗普的幕僚之间可能的联系，以便给政府调查人员留下线索。
Aides say Trump went into Friday in a foul mood. He had not known ahead of time that Sessions planned to recuse himself and never thought he should, even after Sessions acknowledged that he had talked to Kislyak despite suggesting otherwise in his Senate confirmation hearing.
助手称，特朗普是带着糟糕的心情进入周五的。他事先不知道塞申斯计划回避调查，也从没想到他会这么做，尽管在那之前，塞申斯一改在参议院提名确认听证会上的说辞，承认自己和基斯利亚克交谈过。
Trump told some advisers that he thought Sessions had fumbled his answer at that hearing. But on Friday morning in an angry session in the Oval Office, the president railed at aides about the recusal, singling out the White House counsel’s office and the communications staff in a tirade visible through the window to a nearby television camera.
特朗普对一些顾问表示，他认为塞申斯在听证会上回答得不好。但周五上午在椭圆形办公室的一场会议上，怒气冲冲的特朗普因塞申斯请求回避调查一事斥责助手，并挑出白宫法律顾问办公室和通讯联络工作人员大加指责。附近的一台电视摄像机透过窗户捕捉到了这一幕。
Still upset after arriving at Mar-a-Lago, his estate in Palm Beach, Florida, Trump woke up Saturday morning and began posting on Twitter at 6:26 a.m. In a burst of six messages, he tried to turn the tables by noting that members of the Obama administration also met with Russia’s ambassador. Without citing a source, he asserted that Obama had tapped his phones, and compared it to Watergate. “Bad (or sick) guy,” the president wrote.
抵达其位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园后，特朗普依然很生气。周六早上，他醒得很早，并于早上6点26分开始发推。在连续发出的六条推文中，他试图扭转局势，指出奥巴马政府的成员也和俄罗斯大使见过面。他断言奥巴马窃听了他的电话，但没有给出消息来源。他还把此事比作水门事件。“坏人（或者是病态），”特朗普写道。
While the political world erupted over the allegation, Trump was adamant in conversations throughout the day that he was on to something. His chief strategist, Bannon, the former Breitbart chairman, flew down to Florida with Don McGahn, the White House counsel, on Saturday.
在相关指控震惊政界的同时，特朗普在周六全天的多次谈话中坚称他掌握了某些东西。周六当天，他的首席策略师，也就是前布莱巴特主席班农和白宫法律顾问唐纳德·麦克加恩(Donald McGahn)飞抵佛罗里达州。
Late Saturday morning, Trump’s aides spoke about how to get him to stop posting on Twitter, to avoid opening himself up to further problems. He golfed a little, then returned to the club and began working the phones. By Sunday, advisers said, he was fuming that more people were not defending him.
周六快中午时，特朗普的助手谈到了如何让他停止在Twitter上发文，以避免引发进一步的问题。他打了一会高尔夫，然后就回到俱乐部，开始在电话上工作。顾问称，到了周日，他愤怒于没有更多人为他辩护。
And so he doubled down, calling for a congressional investigation.
因此，他加大力度，要求国会展开调查。
“Reports concerning potentially politically motivated investigations immediately ahead of the 2016 election are very troubling,” Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, said on Twitter. Until then, he said, the president will not comment further.
“有关2016年选举前夕可能是出于政治动机的调查的报道令人非常不安，”特朗普的新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)在Twitter上说。他还说，在这样的调查开始前，总统不会进一步置评。