WASHINGTON — President Obama will use his executive authority to cut carbon emissions from the nation’s coal-fired power plants by up to 20 percent, according to people familiar with his plans, which will spur the creation of a state cap-and-trade program forcing industry to pay for the carbon pollution it creates. Mr. Obama will unveil his plans in a new regulation, written by the Environmental Protection Agency, at the White House on Monday. It would be the strongest action ever taken by an American president to tackle climate change and could become one of the defining elements of Mr. Obama’s legacy.
华盛顿——熟悉相关计划的人士称，奥巴马总统将动用行政权力，将美国火力发电厂的碳排放减少最高20%。这些计划将催生州一级的碳排放限额交易计划，迫使工业界为自己制造的碳污染买单。周一在白宫，奥巴马将通过国家环境保护局（Environmental ProtectionAgency，简称EPA）制定的一项新规揭晓他的计划。这将是美国总统为解决气候变化问题所采取的最强有力的行动，并可能成为奥巴马政绩的决定性要素之一。
Cutting carbon emissions by 20 percent — a substantial amount — would be the most important step in the administration’s pledged goal to reduce pollution over the next six years and could eventually shut down hundreds of coal-fired power plants across the country. The regulation would have far more impact on the environment than the Keystone pipeline, which many administration officials consider a political sideshow, and is certain to be met with opposition from Republicans who say that Mr. Obama will be using his executive authority as a back door to force through an inflammatory cap-and-trade policy he could not get through Congress.
奥巴马政府曾承诺在接下来的六年里减少污染。将碳排放减少20%——这是个可观的数量——将是实现这一目标的最重要步骤，并可能最终导致全国数百家火力发电厂关闭。新规对环境的影响将远远大于被许多政府官员视作政治表演的Keystone管道，并且肯定会遭到共和党的反对。共和党称，奥巴马会把行政权力用作后门，强制引入无法在国会获得通过的煽动性碳排放限额交易政策。
People familiar with the rule say that it will set a national limit on carbon pollution from coal plants, but that it will allow each state to come up with its own plan to cut emissions based on a menu of options that include adding wind and solar power, energy-efficiency technology and creating or joining state cap-and-trade programs. Cap-and-trade programs are effectively carbon taxes that place a limit on carbon pollution and create markets for buying and selling government-issued pollution permits.
熟悉新规的人士称，新规将对火力发电厂的碳污染设定全国性限制，但也允许各州根据一系列选项自行制定减少碳排放的计划，选项包括增加风能和太阳能发电、采用节能技术，以及创建或加入州一级的碳排放限额交易计划。碳排放限额交易计划实际上是一种碳税，功能是为碳污染设定限度，并为买卖政府发放的污染许可创建市场。
Coal plants are the nation’s largest source of the greenhouse gases that scientists say are the chief cause of global warming.
火力发电厂是美国最大的温室气体来源。科学家称，温室气体是全球变暖的主要原因。
In his first term Mr. Obama tried to push a cap-and-trade bill through Congress, but it died in the Senate in 2010. Republicans, Tea Party groups and the coal industry attacked Democrats who supported it, criticizing the legislation as a “cap and tax” that would raise energy prices. Cap and trade is now seen as political poison in Washington. But Republicans said that the new rule has created a back door for Mr. Obama to force through a politically inflammatory policy by reviving it in the states. “This E.P.A. regulation will breathe life into state-level cap-and-trade programs,” said Peter Shattuck, director of market initiatives at ENE, a Boston-based climate policy advocacy and research organization.
在第一任期内，奥巴马曾尝试推动国会通过一项碳排放限额交易法案，但该法案于2010年被参议院否决。共和党、茶党组织和煤炭业攻击支持该法案的民主党人，指责该法案是会导致能源涨价的“限额税”。目前，美国政坛仍将碳排放限额交易视为政治毒药。但共和党称，新规定为奥巴马开设了后门，使他可以在各州重启这种交易，由此强行引入一项具有政治煽动性的政策。“EPA的这项规定将激活州一级的碳排放限额交易计划，”波士顿气候政策倡导和研究组织ENE的市场活动总监彼得·沙特克说(Peter Shattuck)。
Many states are already researching how to join or replicate the nation’s two existing state-level cap-and-trade plans, both of which bear the signatures of prominent Republicans: Mitt Romney, the 2012 presidential nominee and former Massachusetts governor, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former California governor.
许多个州本来就在研究如何参与或复制国内现有的两个州级碳排放限额计划，这两个计划都有著名共和党人的功劳。他们是2012年总统提名人、前马萨诸萨州州长米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)和前加利福尼亚州州长阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)。
As governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney was a key architect of a cap-and-trade program in nine northeastern states, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. He worked closely at the time with a top Massachusetts environmental official, Gina McCarthy, who today is immersed in the Obama administration’s new rule as the administrator of the E.P.A. Mr. Romney later disavowed the regional cap-and-trade program.
担任马萨诸塞州州长期间，罗姆尼在美国东北九个州的碳排放限额交易项目“地区温室气体倡议”(Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative)的构建过程中起了关键作用。当时，他与马萨诸塞州的高级环保官员吉娜·麦卡锡(Gina McCarthy)进行了密切合作，后者目前正以EPA管理者的身份深度参与奥巴马政府的新规。罗姆尼后来推翻了这个地区性的碳排放限额交易计划。
Despite the fierce Republican opposition, a number of officials at electric utilities say they welcome cap-and-trade programs because they offer an affordable and flexible way to comply with the new regulation. “By trading on carbon credits, we’ll be able to achieve significantly more cuts at a lower cost,” said Anthony J. Alexander, president and chief executive of FirstEnergy, an electric utility with power plants in Ohio, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland and New Jersey. “The broader the options, the better off we’re going to be.”
虽然共和党强烈反对碳排放限额交易计划，电力行业的一些管理人员仍然表示，他们支持此类计划，因为它们提供了一种遵循新规的平价而富有弹性的方式。“通过碳信用额交易，我们能以更低的支出实现数量大得多的减排，”第一能源公司(FirstEnergy)董事长及首席执行官安东尼·J·亚历山大(Anthony J. Alexander)说。第一能源是一家电力公司，在俄亥俄、西弗吉尼亚、宾夕法尼亚、马里兰和新泽西都设有发电厂。“选择面越宽，我们的处境就越好。”
John McManus, vice president of environmental services at American Electric Power, which has coal-fired power plants in 11 states, agreed. “We view cap and trade as having a lot of benefits,” he said. “There’s important design considerations that would have to be factored in, to consider each state’s circumstances. But we think it’s definitely worth looking at. It could keep the cost down. It would allow us to keep coal units running for a more extended period. There are a lot of advantages.”
美国电力公司（American Electric Power，简称AEP）环境服务副总裁约翰·麦克马纳斯(John McManus)也对此表示了赞同，他的公司在11个州拥有以煤炭为燃料的发电厂。“我们认为，限额交易计划有很多好处，”他说，“还需要考虑一些重要的制度设计因素，考虑每个州的情况。但我们认为，这件事情绝对值得研究。它可以平抑成本，延长煤炭设施的运营时间。好处很多。”
But many Republican governors said they do not see the benefits.
但是，许多共和党州长表示，他们看不到什么好处。
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, whose state was an original member of the Northeastern cap-and-trade program, has since withdrawn from it. In Ohio, a heavily coal-dependent state where the Republican governor, John R. Kasich, has also been mentioned as a possible 2016 presidential candidate, officials are clear that cap and trade will not be welcomed. “We think it’s an unnecessary regulation,” said Craig Butler, head of the Ohio Department of Environment.
新泽西州曾是东北碳排放限额交易计划的原始成员，该州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)后来却转而反对这一计划。在严重依赖煤炭的俄亥俄州，官员也清楚地表明他们不欢迎碳排放限额交易计划。人们认为，该州共和党州长约翰·R·卡西奇(John R. Kasich)也有可能成为2016年的总统候选人。俄亥俄州环境部负责人克雷格·巴特勒(Craig Butler)说，“我们认为，这是一项不必要的规定。”
States with Democratic governors think differently. Energy officials in Illinois, which ranks as one of the nation’s top 10 producers of both coal and coal-fired carbon pollution, have in the past considered joining either the northeastern program or starting up a similar program in the Midwest.
民主党人担任州长的州则持不同想法。伊利诺斯州的能源官员过去就曾考虑加入东北各州的计划，或者在中西部启动一个相似的计划。伊利诺斯州的煤炭产量及燃煤碳污染排放量均排名美国前十。
“We’ve also looked at our own go-it-alone Illinois cap-and-trade plan,” said Douglas Scott, chairman of the Illinois Commerce Commission, which regulates the state’s electric utilities. “But joining a larger, multistate program, we’ll be able to spread out the risk, to mitigate the economic impact.”
“我们还考虑过制定伊利诺斯州自己的碳排放限额交易计划，”伊利诺斯商务委员会(Illinois Commerce Commission)主席道格拉斯·斯科特(Douglas Scott)说。该委员会负责管理本州电力设施。“但是，如果能加入一个规模更大、涉及多个州的项目，我们就能分散风险，减轻经济所受的影响。”