In the twilight of his presidency, George W. Bush sought refuge in one of his foreign policy victories: Africa. Dogged by his global missteps and failures, Mr. Bush traveled abroad in Feb. 2008 to trumpet his legacy-building AIDS program. When President Barack Obama heads to Africa later this week, the focus won’t be on a signature success story. Instead, the trip will highlight his lack of attention to the continent.
在其总统任期的后期，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)曾经从非洲寻求安慰，那是他的外交政策取得胜利的地方之一。因在全球各地不断出现政策失误和遭遇失败，备受困扰的布什于2008年2月出访非洲，大肆宣传自己在那里建立的、影响深远的艾滋病项目。当贝拉克·奥巴马总统在本周晚些时候前往非洲时，关注点不会是这种标志性的成功故事。相反，这趟旅程将突显出他对这片大陆缺乏关注。
I was working for the United States Agency for International Development when Mr. Bush arrived in Rwanda to much fanfare. He deserved the warm welcome and praise for his administration’s AIDS program: more than $15 billion dedicated to preventing and treating the disease. Mr. Bush’s effort helped change the conversation from if the epidemic could be contained to how. The number of people in sub-Saharan Africa receiving antiretroviral drugs went from under 100,000 to 2 million.
当年，布什在一片欢庆气氛中抵达卢旺达的时候，我正在美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)工作。布什对得起非洲人民的热烈欢迎和称赞：他的政府先后为非洲提供了超过150亿美元（约合930亿人民币）的援助资金，用于预防和治疗艾滋病。布什的努力帮助改变了当地的观念，人们的话题从艾滋病能否被控制，变成了如何控制它。撒哈拉以南非洲地区接受抗逆转录病毒药物的人数从不足10万增加到了200万。
Such a defining accomplishment has proved elusive for Mr. Obama and is unlikely before his term is up. This is a major disappointment for many Africa watchers, but it doesn’t mean the president shouldn’t become more active across the continent in the time he has left.
事实已经证明，这样的重大成就对奥巴马来说有些可望而不可即，不大可能在他期内实现。这让很多非洲观察者大失所望。但这不意味着奥巴马不该在余下的任期里更多投入非洲事务。
Mr. Obama has initiated some laudable policies. The administration did a good job of anticipating and preparing for turmoil in Burundi following President Pierre Nkurunziza’s decision to run for a third term despite a two-term limit. The situation there continues to unfold and the country stands on the brink of chaos, but the Obama administration’s allocation of resources for preventing violence there have been significant.
奥巴马也曾推出一些值得赞赏的政策。他的政府较早地预料到了布隆迪的动乱，为应对这一状况做了很好的准备。当时，布隆迪总统皮埃尔·恩库伦齐扎(Pierre Nkurunziza)无视该国总统只能连任一次的法律限制，决定谋求第三个总统任期。布隆迪的局势持续发展，整个国家已经处于混乱边缘。奥巴马政府为预防那里发生暴力事件配备了大量资源，这非常重要。
The United States also played an active role in helping the parties avert the worst in the Central African Republic’s deadly sectarian civil war. And the American military’s intervention in West Africa to provide order and logistical support to the Ebola response did more to help curb the crisis than is often acknowledged. Mr. Obama’s Power Africa initiative to increase access to electricity is the type of program that could pay big dividends in the future.
美国也在帮助中非共和国各方防止致命的宗派内战进一步恶化上发挥了积极作用。埃博拉病毒爆发后，美国军队在西非展开行动，维持秩序和提供后勤支持，在遏制这次危机方面取得的成绩通常并不为人们完全了解。奥巴马提出的致力于增加非洲通电人口的“电力非洲”(Power Africa)计划属于长远投资，可能会在未来取得巨大成效。
But none of these initiatives scratches the surface of what’s possible for the United States. Mr. Obama has been mostly missing in Africa.
但这些举措都远远不能代表美国所能达到的水准。奥巴马基本上还是错失了他在非洲的机会。
The opportunity to look past the horizon has been missed. Washington’s thinking on Africa is outdated, feckless and held back by the quest to stop terrorism today instead of reducing its likelihood tomorrow and for a long time to come.
着眼未来的机会已经失去了。华盛顿对非洲的理解是过时的，而且漫不经心。这受限于他们一心在当下遏制恐怖主义，而不是考虑如何减少它在明天，以及更长远的时间里爆发的可能性。
It’s easy to make the case that the geopolitical importance of Africa paled in comparison to other concerns on Mr. Obama’s watch. How could the president devote time and political capital to the area when he hasn’t even been able to effectively extract America from the Middle East and pivot to Asia? This may be a good argument, but it’s also shortsighted.
大家很容易觉得，相比于奥巴马关注的其他问题，非洲在地缘政治上的重要性相形见绌。当他还没能让美国从中东地区很好地抽身，没能让美国转向亚洲，又如何能把自己的时间和政治资本投注于非洲？这听起来似乎很有道理，但也不免显得目光短浅。
The future of American policy toward Africa needs to be less about aid and more about trade; less about unholy security partnerships and more about relationships with regular people; and less about turning a blind eye to the transgressions of allies and more about getting tough on democratic failings.
未来，美国在制定针对非洲的政策时，应该少集中于援助，多着眼于贸易领域；少建立缺乏道德准则的安全伙伴关系，多与非洲普通人展开联系；少对同盟国的不当行为视而不见，多在民主遭遇挑战的时候采取强硬姿态。
Mr. Obama has little time left, but he can kick-start the changes that are necessary. Two areas stand out.
留给奥巴马的时间不多了，但他可以快速启动一些必要的改变。尤其是在以下两个方面。
First, the president can bring more attention to major conflicts and increase pressure on human rights violators.
首先，奥巴马可以把更多注意力放在重大冲突事件上，可以向侵犯人权者施加更多压力。
The civil war in South Sudan — where a power struggle, massive displacement of people and risk of famine threaten to tear the world’s newest nation apart — is a good place to start. The Obama administration hasn’t ignored the issue, but it could be more active in regional diplomacy and push harder with targeted sanctions to compel compromise by both sides.
帮助控制南苏丹内战局面是个不错的开始。那里正进行着一场权力斗争，有大批难民流离失所，还存在出现饥荒的可能性，诸多问题正撕扯着这个世界上最年轻的国家。奥巴马政府之前并没有忽略这方面的问题，但它可以在这个地区的外交事务中扮演更积极的角色，用有针对性的制裁措施进一步施压，迫使双方达成妥协。
Second, and closely related, Mr. Obama should turn away from corrupt, ineffectual leaders and build ties directly with their embattled constituents. He should choose his friends wisely. Cozying up to nasty regimes or staying silent in the face of abuses hasn’t worked in the past; it just kicks the problems down the road and often creates new ones. The next generation of citizens, and leaders who defend democracy and protect rights, are the ones to establish connections with.
其次，也是与第一点密切相关的，奥巴马应该抛弃那些腐败无用的国家领导人，与这些国家身处困境的选民们建立起直接联系。他应该在选择朋友方面表现得更明智一些。取悦那些不入流的政权，在暴行面前保持沉默，这些策略在过去并没有起作用；这不过是把问题凉到一边，而且往往还制造出新问题。新一代的公民和捍卫民主维护人权的领导者们，才是我们应该与之建立关系的人。
Ethiopia, the second stop on Mr. Obama’s trip after Kenya, is an example of a country with repressive leaders who are being rewarded for their counterterrorism support. Instead of backslapping security partners in Addis Ababa, Mr. Obama should publicly criticize their efforts to quash internal debate and dissent. He should stand with the people — not the leaders — by speaking in support of human rights and opposition leaders.
奥巴马在造访肯尼亚之后，会前往其非洲之旅的第二站埃塞尔比亚，该国就是这方面的例子。尽管肯尼亚的领导人在国内镇压人民，但美国正在为他们之前配合打击恐怖主义而予以回报。奥巴马不该和他在亚的斯亚贝巴(Addis Ababa)的安全伙伴过分亲密，而应该公开批评他们压制国内的辩论和异议。他应该和人民的立场一致，发言支持人权和反对派领袖，而不是站在领导人的一边。
Nigeria, despite its imperfections, would have been a better country to visit, following its democratic transfer of power this year. It was a surprisingly fair and peaceful election and the first time an opposition candidate won the vote over the incumbent. If there was ever a time to visit, it is now.
尽管尼日利亚有很多不足，但它今年经历了政权的民主交接，是更合适奥巴马出访的非洲国家。尼日利亚人民出人意料地进行了一场公平、和平的选举，而且第一次出现反对派选举人击败现任总统的情况。若说有什么访问这个国家的合适时机，那就是现在。
Countries across the continent are developing and changing quickly — and in unique ways. With growing populations and expanding markets, there are huge opportunities for trade and investment. But, for better or worse, United States policy in the region has often been characterized by aid; development funds and projects have shaped relations. This should also change as economics and business opportunities overtake aid in importance.
非洲大陆的各个国家都在以各种独特的方式快速发展和变化着。随着人口增加和市场扩大，这里也出现了巨大的贸易和投资机会。但是，不管是好是坏，美国在这一地区的政策总是以援助为特征；各个开发基金和开发项目塑造了彼此的关系。当经济和商业机遇的重要性大过援助的时候，我们也需要做出改变。
Unlike his predecessor, Mr. Obama will not be on a victory lap in Africa. His administration hasn’t done enough to drive American policy in the region forward. But if he lays out a strategic vision and starts with these modest steps, the United States will finally be on the right track.
与他的前任不同，奥巴马不会在非洲巡回访问以庆祝自己的功绩。这届政府的作为不足以推进美国政策在这一地区向前迈进。但如果他制定一个战略远景，迈开上述的微小步伐，美国最终会在这方面踏上正轨。