WASHINGTON — The United States government on Friday will begin making it easier for Americans to travel to Cuba than it has been for more than half a century, opening the door to a new era of contact between neighbors that have been estranged longer than most of their citizens have been alive.
华盛顿——美国政府将从周五起，让美国人去古巴旅行变得半个多世纪以来未曾有过的方便。此举开启了美古之间接触的新时代，这两个邻国疏远的时间长于两国大多数公民的年龄。
The Obama administration announced on Thursday a set of new regulations to take effect on Friday easing decades-old restrictions on travel, business and remittances, putting into reality some of the changes promised by President Obama last month when he announced plans to resume normal diplomatic relations with Havana.
奥巴马政府周四宣布了一套将于周五生效的新规定，放宽几十年来对旅行、商务和汇款的限制，实现了奥巴马总统的一些承诺，他在上个月宣布了与哈瓦那恢复正常外交关系的打算。
Under the new regulations, Americans will now be allowed to travel to Cuba for any of a dozen specific reasons without first obtaining a special license from the government. Airlines and travel agents will be allowed to provide service to Cuba without a specific license. And travelers will be permitted to use credit cards and spend money while in the country and bring back up to $400 in souvenirs, including up to $100 in alcohol or tobacco.
根据新规定，美国人将可以列举十几种具体理由中的任何一种前往古巴，无需提前获得政府的特别许可。航空公司和旅行社将无需特许便可提供去往古巴的服务。游客可在古巴国内使用信用卡消费，还可把价值不超过400美元的纪念品带回国，其中包括不超过100美元的烟或酒。
The new regulations will also make it easier for American telecommunications providers and financial institutions to do business with Cuba. Americans will be allowed to send more money to Cubans, up to $2,000 every three months instead of the $500 currently permitted.
新规定也将让美国电信运营商和金融机构在古巴做生意变得更容易。美国人将被允许向古巴人寄更多地汇款，每三个月不超过2000美元，而现在的限制是500美元。
“These changes will have a direct impact in further engaging and empowering the Cuban people, promoting positive change for Cuba’s citizens,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, whose department oversees sanctions policy, said in a statement.
美国对古巴的制裁政策由财政部负责监督执行。财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)在一份声明中说，“这些变化将产生直接影响，让我们能与古巴人民建立进一步的密切联系，使他们享有更多的权力，为古巴公民带来积极的变化。”
“Cuba has real potential for economic growth,” he added, “and by increasing travel, commerce, communications, and private business development between the United States and Cuba, the United States can help the Cuban people determine their own future.”
“古巴有经济增长的真实潜力，”他补充道，“通过增加旅游、商务和通讯，以及促进从事美国和古巴之间贸易的民营企业的发展，美国可以帮助古巴人民决定自己的未来。”
The administration moved to ease the restrictions after obtaining confirmation that 53 incarcerated people it deemed political prisoners had been released in accordance with the agreement Mr. Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba struck last month. Cuba has also released an American held prisoner for years, Alan P. Gross, and a Cuban who had worked as a spy for the United States. Mr. Obama released three Cuban spies who had been held for years and were considered folk heroes in Havana.
按照奥巴马与古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗( Raúl Castro)上个月达成的协议，古巴将释放美国政府认为是政治犯的53人，奥巴马政府在获得这些人已获释的确认后，放松了限制。古巴还释放了被其关押多年的美国人艾伦·P·格罗斯(Alan P.Gross)以及一名曾为美国从事间谍工作的古巴人。奥巴马政府也已释放了三名被关押多年的古巴间谍，哈瓦那把他们视为民族英雄。
The broader trade embargo first imposed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower after the Cuban revolution that brought Mr. Castro’s brother Fidel to power will remain in place unless Congress decides to lift it, as Mr. Obama has urged it to do. But the moves announced on Thursday go further than any president has gone in 50 years to facilitate travel and trade with Cuba.
让劳尔的哥哥菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)上台的古巴革命发生后，最初是艾森豪威尔总统对古巴实行了贸易禁运，而除非国会决定将其取消，这些更广泛的禁运将保持不变，奥巴马已呼吁国会这样做。然而，周四公布的新规定，在促进美国与古巴之间的旅行和贸易方面，还是比50年来的任何一位总统走得都远。
Critics, led by Senator Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American Republican from Florida, have argued that Mr. Obama is playing into the hands of the Castro brothers by relaxing sanctions without obtaining any meaningful commitment to change on their part. Cuba remains one of the most repressive countries in the world, according to human rights groups and the State Department, which have catalogued the many ways freedom is restricted on the island nation.
以来自佛罗里达州的古巴裔共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)为首的批评者们认为，奥巴马还没有从卡斯特罗兄弟那里得到任何有意义的改革承诺，就放宽了制裁，是落入了他们的圈套。据人权组织和美国国务院认为，古巴仍是世界上最专制的国家之一，人权组织和国务院已经把该岛国许多限制自由的做法记录在案。