BRISBANE, Australia — President Obama sought to give new momentum to his strategic shift to Asia on Saturday, telling an audience of students here that the United States could be a force for order in a fast-growing region shadowed by threats like a nuclear-armed North Korea.
澳大利亚布里斯班——周六，奥巴马总统力图为其转向亚洲的战略注入新的动力，他在对当地学生发表演讲时表示，美国可以成为维持该地区秩序的一股力量，这个快速发展的地区面临一些威胁，比如拥有核武器的朝鲜。
“I’m here today to say that American leadership in the Asia Pacific will always be a fundamental focus of my foreign policy,” Mr. Obama said at the University of Queensland.
奥巴马在昆士兰大学(University of Queensland)说道，“我今天在这里说明，美国在亚太地区的领导地位，将一直是我外交政策的基本重心。”
In his address, the president acknowledged skepticism in some quarters about how real the shift to Asia was, given distractions like the Islamic State, the Ebola outbreak, and the Ukraine crisis. “They wonder whether America has the staying power to sustain it,” he said.
奥巴马在演讲中承认，鉴于出现了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)、埃博拉疫情及乌克兰危机等令人分心的事情，有人怀疑美国对转向亚洲战略有多么笃定。他说，“他们想问美国是否有耐力坚持这一战略。”
But he insisted that the United States was enriching its military ties and trade relations with Asian countries, detailing a series of military operations in the region. “Day in and day out, steadily and deliberately, we will continue to deepen our engagement,” he said.
但他坚称，美国正在加强与亚洲国家的军事及贸易关系，并详细介绍了美国在该地区的一系列军事行动。“我们将日复一日地，逐渐稳步加强我们的参与力度。”
Mr. Obama said the United States would rotate additional Marines through Darwin, in northern Australia, where it has established an outpost to project American military might in the Pacific. He described missile defense cooperation with South Korea, counterterrorism training with the Philippines, and defense alliances with Japan.
奥巴马表示，美国将派遣更多海军陆战队士兵，轮流到澳大利亚北部的达尔文市驻扎，美国为了在太平洋地区展示军事力量，在该市设立了一个军事基地。奥巴马介绍了与韩国的导弹防御合作，与菲律宾开展的反恐训练，以及与日本的防务联盟。
The president, who was ending a three-nation Asian tour by attending a meeting of the Group of 20 industrialized powers in Brisbane, was bolstered by a landmark climate agreement with China this week. He announced a $3 billion American pledge to a fund that will help developing countries confront the dangers of climate change.
出席在布里斯班召开的20国集团会议，是奥巴马在三国停留的亚洲之行中的最后一个环节。本周与中国达成的一项里程碑式的气候协议，让奥巴马意气风发。他宣布，美国承诺向一个帮助发展中国家应对气候变化威胁的基金，提供30亿美元（约合184亿元人民币）的支持。
Mr. Obama’s heavy emphasis on climate change could stir tensions with his Australian host, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, a longtime skeptic of climate science who has resisted putting it on the agenda of the Group of 20 meeting. In a shot at Mr. Abbott, Mr. Obama joked that he knew climate change was the subject of “healthy debate” in Australia.
奥巴马对气候变化的重点强调，可能会与东道主澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)产生矛盾。长期以来，阿博特一直对气候科学持怀疑态度，并且反对将其纳入此次20国集团会议的议程。奥巴马开玩笑说，自己知道气候变化在澳大利亚是“有益讨论”的主题，以此对阿博特表示批评。