President Obama’s rollout of a military campaign in Syria against the Islamic State gets messier by the day.
奥巴马总统在叙利亚开展军事行动打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的动作，仿佛一天比一天麻烦。
Obama’s initial framing of the campaign, as a limited effort in partnership with allies, to degrade the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS, made sense, and it was encouraging that Obama dampened expectations and clearly understood how much could go wrong.
奥巴马最初对行动的限定是合理的，即与盟国联手采取有限的举措，削弱伊斯兰国（又称ISIS），而且奥巴马劝告人们不要有太多期待，也明确地了解有多少方面可能出错，这些都令人鼓舞。
Then things went downhill. A “senior administration official,” in a briefing posted on the White House website, explained why Saudi Arabia would be a good partner in battling ISIS: “Saudi Arabia has an extensive border with Syria.”
然后事态就急转直下。一位“高级政府官员”在白宫网站上发布的简报中解释说，沙特阿拉伯是对抗ISIS的好伙伴，因为“沙特阿拉伯与叙利亚有很长的边境线接壤”。
Oh?
啊？
Actually, Saudi Arabia and Syria have no border at all. Always be skeptical when the White House goes to war with a country that it misplaces on a map.  
实际上，沙特阿拉伯与叙利亚并不接壤。要是白宫想要与一个自己在地图上都找不到的国家开战，千万要心怀警惕。
Soon the administration, after initially avoiding the word “war,” dropped the euphemisms. It announced from multiple podiums that what we’re engaging in actually is a war after all.
奥巴马政府最初一直在回避“战争”一词，但后来还是放弃了各种委婉语。奥巴马政府在多个场合宣布，我们即将插手的事情，说到底的确是战争。
The latest puzzle relates to ground troops. Obama seemed to rule them out last week, saying that American troops “will not have a combat mission.” Then on Tuesday, Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that, if necessary, he might recommend “the use of U.S. military ground forces.”
令人困惑的最新问题涉及地面部队。奥巴马上周似乎排除了地面行动的可能性，称美国军队“不会承担作战任务”。然而到了周二，参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)说，如有必要，他会建议“动用美军的地面部队”。
Uh-oh.
哦哟……
Mr. President, you make it so hard for those of us who are basically sympathetic to your foreign policy. All this feels chaotic, poorly informed and uncoordinated — indeed, like a potential “slippery slope,” as a New York Times editorial warned.
总统先生，您这样做让我们这些基本上认同您的外交政策的人很难受。所有这些动作感觉都很混乱、信息不足、毫无章法——就像《纽约时报》的一篇社评所警告的，很可能像是个滑入泥潭的斜坡。
Of course, it’s easy for us in the grandstands to criticize those walking the tightrope. I agree with Obama’s essential plan of authorizing airstrikes in Syria, if done cautiously and in conjunction with air forces of Sunni allies. But we can’t want to defeat ISIS more than the countries in its path, and right now we do.
当然，我们这些旁观者批评走钢丝的人时显得很轻巧。如果谨慎实施，而且与逊尼派盟友的空军共同开展，那么我认同奥巴马授权空袭叙利亚的核心方案。但我们击败ISIS的意愿，总不能比直面ISIS威胁的国家还热切，可我们现在就是这样的。
American involvement must be predicated on an inclusive Iraqi government so that Sunni tribes confront ISIS. It must entail cooperation from Turkey to disrupt ISIS financing. It should incorporate a social media arm to counter ISIS propaganda, cyberwarfare to spy on ISIS and disrupt it, and additional intelligence gathering to monitor foreign fighters who may return home. And Obama is right that Congress should finance and arm some Free Syrian Army commanders, as a counterweight to ISIS. Some fighters have joined ISIS simply because it offers better pay.
美国介入的前提必须是伊拉克组建包容性的政府，好让逊尼派部落对抗ISIS。要想介入，也需要争取土耳其的合作，从而破坏ISIS的融资；还需要组建社交网络部门，对抗ISIS的宣传；组建网络战部门，打探ISIS的情报、扰乱其运作，并搜集其他情报，监控那些可能回国的外国作战人员。奥巴马提出，国会应当为叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)的一些指挥官提供资金和武器支持，以此抗衡ISIS。这种思维是正确的，一些作战人员加入ISIS，只是因为那边薪水更高。
We should finance Syrian rebels in part because our past policy — staying aloof — failed and made the problem worse. Nearly 200,000 Syrians have died; Jordan and Lebanon have been destabilized; extremism has grown; and Iraq has now effectively been dismembered and atrocities committed against Yazidis, Christians and other minorities.
我们之所以应当资助叙利亚叛军，部分原因是我们过去袖手旁观的政策失败了，而且导致了问题的加剧。已经有20万叙利亚人丧生，约旦和黎巴嫩的稳定也受到了破坏，极端主义势力有所增强，伊拉克现在事实上已被肢解，雅兹迪人、基督徒和其他少数族群受到了残暴对待。
The trouble is that alarm and revulsion at ISIS beheadings is creating a rush to intervene, so that some want us to leap from the sidelines right into the fray — even with ground troops. That would backfire by aggravating nationalists.
问题在于ISIS的斩首行动引发的警觉和反感，产生了一种要仓促干预的冲动，于是有些人希望我们不能再旁观，要直接跳进乱局当中——甚至还要派遣地面部队。这样做可能会激怒民族主义者，得不偿失。
While I cautiously favor airstrikes, we need to be up front about risks:
尽管我审慎地支持空袭，但是我们必须承认存在如下风险：
First, airstrikes almost inevitably will mean accidental civilian casualties. ISIS would release videos of injured children to argue that America is at war with Islam. That may bolster extremist groups from Africa to Asia.
首先，空袭几乎不可避免地意味着会有平民意外伤亡。ISIS会放出儿童受伤的视频，宣称美国是在与伊斯兰开战。这就可能激发起从非洲到亚洲的极端团体。
Second, more fighting in Syria could increase the refugee flow to Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. It would be tragic if we inadvertently degraded not ISIS but Jordan.
其次，叙利亚战事的加剧，可能会让更多难民流向约旦、黎巴嫩和土耳其。如果我们无意之间破坏了约旦的稳定，但未能击败ISIS，那么结果将是悲剧性的。
Third, it seems entirely possible that ISIS filmed and released the beheading videos precisely with the intention of luring America into a war. Its Syrian stronghold of Raqqa would be difficult to bomb without causing civilian casualties, and ISIS may have figured that it could parlay American attacks into new recruits, prestige and influence.
第三，ISIS录制斩首的视频并公布出来，完全有可能只是为了引诱美国参战。如果对ISIS在叙利亚的据点拉卡实施轰炸，很难不造成平民伤亡，而ISIS或许在盘算，可以借美国的攻击招募新人、赢得声誉和影响力。
We also have enormous challenges at home and abroad that we may be able to do more about than Syria. A few months ago, we were on alert over a Nigerian terrorist group, Boko Haram, kidnapping several hundred schoolgirls and threatening to sell them into slavery. Those girls are still missing, and Boko Haram has gained even more ground in northern Nigeria. Let’s not become so obsessed with ISIS that we become distracted from other threats.
对于国内外面临的诸多巨大挑战，我们所能起到的作用，或许比在叙利亚更大。几个月前，我们对尼日利亚的一个恐怖组织产生了警觉，这个名为博科圣地(Boko Haram)的组织绑架了数百名女学童，还威胁把她们作为奴隶卖掉。那些女孩还没有找到，博科圣地甚至在尼日利亚北部夺取了更大的地盘。我们不要因为过于关注ISIS，就分散了对其他威胁的注意力。