Five years have passed since President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act — the “stimulus” — into law. With the passage of time, it has become clear that the act did a vast amount of good. It helped end the economy’s plunge; it created or saved millions of jobs; it left behind an important legacy of public and private investment.
奥巴马总统签署《美国复苏与再投资法案》——即“刺激政策”，已经有五年。随着时间的推移，法案带来的众多益处已经十分明显。它在终止经济滑坡上发挥了作用；它创造或拯救了数以百万计的就业；它在公共和私人投资领域留下了一笔重要的遗产。
It was also a political disaster. And the consequences of that political disaster — the perception that stimulus failed — have haunted economic policy ever since.
同时，它也是一场政治灾难。这政治灾难的后果，是刺激政策未能奏效的印象，而这印象，又成为今后经济政策的梦魇。
Let’s start with the good stimulus did.
先来说说刺激政策发挥的益处。
The case for stimulus was that we were suffering from a huge shortfall in overall spending, and that the hit to the economy from the financial crisis and the bursting of the housing bubble was so severe that the Federal Reserve, which normally fights recessions by cutting short-term interest rates, couldn’t overcome this slump on its own. The idea, then, was to provide a temporary boost both by having the government directly spend more and by using tax cuts and public aid to boost family incomes, inducing more private spending.
采取刺激政策的依据是，我们的整体支出正面临巨大缺口，金融危机和房产泡沫破裂给经济造成沉重打击，通常会用降低短期利率来抗击衰退的联储，已经无法凭一己之力面对如此严峻的滑坡。那么，刺激政策的想法就是暂时先提振一下经济，一方面通过政府增加直接的支出，一方面通过减税和公共援助，提高家庭收入，鼓励更多的私人支出。
Opponents of stimulus argued vociferously that deficit spending would send interest rates skyrocketing, “crowding out” private spending. Proponents responded, however, that crowding out — a real issue when the economy is near full employment — wouldn’t happen in a deeply depressed economy, awash in excess capacity and excess savings. And stimulus supporters were right: far from soaring, interest rates fell to historic lows.
刺激政策的反对者嚷道，赤字支出会导致利率大幅上扬，对私人支出产生“挤出效应”。然而倡导者反击称，在极度低迷的经济中，过剩产能和过剩储蓄泛滥成灾，不会出现挤出效应——这是个在接近充分就业时才有的问题。支持刺激的人是对的：利率根本没有上扬，反倒是下降至历史低点。
What about positive evidence for the benefits of stimulus? That’s trickier, because it’s hard to disentangle the effects of the Recovery Act from all the other things that were going on at the time. Nonetheless, most careful studies have found evidence of strong positive effects on employment and output.
那么刺激政策的益处有什么令人信服的证据呢？这个比较麻烦，因为当时发生了很多事情，很难把复苏法案的效果从中独立出来。不过，多数严谨的研究都发现，它在就业和产出上发挥了有力的正面作用。
Even more important, I’d argue, is the huge natural experiment Europe has provided on the effects of sharp changes in government spending. You see, some but not all members of the euro area, the group of countries sharing Europe’s common currency, were forced into imposing draconian fiscal austerity, that is, negative stimulus. If stimulus opponents had been right about the way the world works, these austerity programs wouldn’t have had severe adverse economic effects, because cuts in government spending would have been offset by rising private spending. In fact, austerity led to nasty, in some cases catastrophic, declines in output and employment. And private spending in countries imposing harsh austerity ended up falling instead of rising, amplifying the direct effects of government cutbacks.
从欧洲进行的大规模自然实验可以看到，政府支出的剧烈变化能构成怎样的影响，在我看来这一点甚至更为重要。你看，在欧元区里，也就是在使用欧洲共同货币的国家群体里，有一部分国家被迫采取了严苛的财政紧缩，这等于是刺激的反面。如果这世界真的如刺激政策反对者所说的那样，那么这些紧缩计划不应该对经济造成严重不利的影响，因为政府支出的削减会被私人支出的增长抵消。然而实际情况是，紧缩所导致的产出和就业下降是可怕的，在某些地方甚至是灾难性的。在那些采取严厉紧缩政策的国家里，私人支出不升反降，将政府削减开支的直接影响进一步放大。
All the evidence, then, points to substantial positive short-run effects from the Obama stimulus. And there were surely long-term benefits, too: big investments in everything from green energy to electronic medical records.
而所有证据都表明，奥巴马刺激政策产生了显著而积极的短期效应。可以肯定也会有长期的好处：从绿色能源到电子医疗记录等各方各面得到了大规模投资。
So why does everyone — or, to be more accurate, everyone except those who have seriously studied the issue — believe that the stimulus was a failure? Because the U.S. economy continued to perform poorly — not disastrously, but poorly — after the stimulus went into effect.
可是为什么所有人——或者更准确的说，除了真正去研究过这个问题的人以外的所有人——还是认为刺激政策是失败的呢？因为刺激生效后，美国经济的表现依然不佳——算不上灾难，但是不佳。
There’s no mystery about why: America was coping with the legacy of a giant housing bubble. Even now, housing has only partly recovered, while consumers are still held back by the huge debts they ran up during the bubble years. And the stimulus was both too small and too short-lived to overcome that dire legacy.
这里边的原因是很浅显的：美国在承受一个巨大的房产泡沫留下的恶果。房地产业至今还没有全面恢复，消费者仍受制于在泡沫时期背上的巨额债务。刺激政策规模太小，时间太短，无法克服如此极端的恶果。
This is not, by the way, a case of making excuses after the fact. Regular readers know that I was more or less tearing my hair out in early 2009, warning that the Recovery Act was inadequate — and that by falling short, the act would end up discrediting the very idea of stimulus. And so it proved.
不过我要说，这不是在事后找借口。我的老读者都知道，我在2009年初可以说是有点抓狂的，当时我警告说复苏法案力度不够——还说由于这种不足，法案到头来反而会败坏刺激政策理念的名声。这一点已被证实。
There’s a long-running debate over whether the Obama administration could have gotten more. The administration compounded the damage with excessively optimistic forecasts, based on the false premise that the economy would quickly bounce back once confidence in the financial system was restored.
奥巴马政府是不是本可以争取到更多，坊间一直有争论。政府对前景的过分乐观加剧了破坏，而这种乐观是基于一个虚假前提：一旦金融系统恢复信心，经济会很快反弹。
But that’s all water under the bridge. The important point is that U.S. fiscal policy went completely in the wrong direction after 2010. With the stimulus perceived as a failure, job creation almost disappeared from inside-the-Beltway discourse, replaced with obsessive concern over budget deficits. Government spending, which had been temporarily boosted both by the Recovery Act and by safety-net programs like food stamps and unemployment benefits, began falling, with public investment hit worst. And this anti-stimulus has destroyed millions of jobs.
但过去的就让它过去吧。重要的是，美国的财政政策在2010年以后一直走在完全错误的方向。刺激政策被认定失败后，创造就业这四个字基本上在华盛顿的讨论中消失了，取而代之的是对预算赤字的一往情深。在复苏法案和食品券、失业救济金等社会安全网项目的作用下，政府支出曾有短暂的提升，但后来又开始下降，其中公共投资的情况最糟。这种反刺激政策毁掉了数以百万计的就业岗位。
In other words, the overall narrative of the stimulus is tragic. A policy initiative that was good but not good enough ended up being seen as a failure, and set the stage for an immensely destructive wrong turn.
换句话说，刺激政策这个故事总体来看是个悲剧。一场好但还不够好的政策行动，最终被人说成是失败，从而给极具毁灭性的路线错误埋下伏笔。