WASHINGTON — Whipsawed by events and facing another midterm electoral defeat, President Obama has directed his team to forge a policy agenda to regain momentum for his final two years in office even as some advisers urge that he rethink the way he governs.
华盛顿——不利事件的发生，以及另一次中期选举失利的可能性，令奥巴马遭受两面夹击。即便一些顾问敦促他重新考虑执政方式，奥巴马还是指示自己的团队，为其总统任期的最后两年制定一个政策议程，来重拾前进动力。
Without waiting for results from elections on Tuesday that few in the White House expect to go well for Mr. Obama, top aides have met for weeks to plot the final quarter of his presidency. Anticipating a less friendly Congress, they are mapping possible compromises with Republicans to expand trade, overhaul taxes and build roads and bridges.
白宫几乎没有人预期这次选举会对奥巴马产生有利影响，不用等到周二的选举结果公布，高级助手们就已经开了数周的会议，为他总统任期的最后两年制定规划。由于预期新的国会不太友好，他们正在考虑与共和党之间可能达成哪些妥协，来扩大贸易、整顿税收，建设道路和桥梁。
For a president who has lost public support and largely failed to move his agenda on Capitol Hill since winning re-election two years ago, there may be little hope for significant progress if Republicans capture the Senate and add to their House majority. But if Republicans are fully in charge of Congress rather than mainly an opposition party, both sides may have an incentive to strike deals, at least during a short window before the 2016 presidential campaign consumes Washington.
自从两年前赢得连任以来，奥巴马已经失去了公众的支持，而且在国会山基本上无力推动议程，因此如果共和党成为了众、参两院的多数党，总统议程取得大幅进展的希望就很渺茫了。但是，如果共和党人全面掌控了美国国会，而不再仅仅只是一个反对党，双方可能就有了达成交易的诱因，至少在2016年的总统竞选活动席卷华盛顿之前，有一个很短的时间窗口内会是这样。
With or without partners on Capitol Hill, Mr. Obama will continue to exercise his executive authority to advance Democratic policies on climate change, immigration, energy, gay rights and economic issues, aides said. The president, in fact, may announce quickly after the election a unilateral overhaul of immigration rules to make it easier for millions who are in the country illegally to stay. And, of course, many presidents in their last years turn more to foreign policy, where they have a freer hand to set direction.
助手们说，无论有没有国会山的合作伙伴，奥巴马都将继续行使其行政权力，来推进气候变化、移民、能源、同性恋权利和经济问题上的民主党政策。实际上，奥巴马在选举之后可能很快就会宣布，将单方面对移民法规进行大幅修改，数以百万计在美国非法居留的人，会因此更容易留下来。当然，很多总统在其任期的最后几年里，都会把更多精力放在外交政策上，因为在这个领域，他们可以更加自由地选择方向。
“There’s still lots of time to get things done,” said Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat described by some White House aides as one of the president’s closest allies in Congress. “I’m actually optimistic about what he can accomplish in these next two years.”
“还有很多时间来把事情做好，”宾夕法尼亚州民主党参议员鲍勃·凯西(Bob Casey)说，“对于他能在未来两年内完成什么，我非常乐观。”在一些白宫助手的眼中，凯西是总统在国会里最亲密的盟友之一。
But as he sorts through the results this week, and in weeks to come if some Senate races go to runoff elections, Mr. Obama will also confront the question of whether he needs to change the way he operates. Even some of his strongest supporters are quietly recommending changes in his staff and a more open decision-making process.
但是，当他本周看到选举结果——如果参议院的某些席位需要进行决胜选举，那还会多花几周时间——奥巴马也将面对一个问题：他是否需要改变自己的执政方式。甚至在他最坚定的支持者中，有一部分也正在悄悄地建议进行人事变动，让决策过程变得更加开放。
Among advisers inside and outside the White House, there is a growing sense that Mr. Obama has closed himself off within a shrinking circle of aides. Some advisers who had been influential said they were no longer consulted as much. They worry that Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, has taken on too much himself.
在白宫内外的顾问中，越来越多的人感觉到，奥巴马把自己封闭在了一个日益萎缩的助手圈中。一些曾经具有影响力的顾问说，总统征询他们意见的时候少了。他们担心，白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)自己承担了太多工作。
“The circle is small,” said a former senior administration official who did not want to be identified discussing former colleagues. “Particularly if the Republicans take over, I would like him to expand that group and bring in some people from the outside.”
“这个圈子很小，”一位不愿具名的前政府高级官员说，此人不想被人知道是自己在议论前同事，“特别是如果共和党掌控了议会，我希望总统扩大这个圈子，从外面吸纳一些人”。
A commonly cited model is President Ronald Reagan’s decision to enlist former Senator Howard Baker and a team including Kenneth Duberstein. “I just think you’ve got to take that risk and go outside your comfort zone of recycled Obama staff people,” the former Obama official said.
人们通常提到的一个例子，是罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)决定把前参议员霍华德·贝克(Howard Baker)和一个包括肯尼斯·多伯斯坦(Kenneth Duberstein)的团队，吸纳到自己的圈子中。“我只是觉得，你必须去冒这个险，走到你吸纳幕僚的舒适区之外，”这位前奥巴马政府官员说。
Some turnover is likely. John D. Podesta, the president’s counselor, has resisted requests to stay and is likely to leave after the State of the Union address to head Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential campaign. Longtime Obama aides exhausted after eight years of campaigning and governing, including confidants like Dan Pfeiffer and Benjamin J. Rhodes, have thought about whether to move on.
一些人事变动有可能会出现。总统顾问约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)已经拒绝了挽留，有可能在国情咨文讲话发表之后离开，以便协助希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)开展总统竞选活动。奥巴马的长期助手，包括丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)和本杰明·J·罗兹Benjamin J. Rhodes)在内，在做了八年的竞选和执政工作之后，已经精疲力竭，也在考虑是否要继续干下去。
As the president’s advisers map out the next two years, they have focused on three broad categories: agenda items he can advance without Congress, legislation that might emerge from a newfound spirit of compromise with Republicans, and issues that Mr. Obama can promote even without hope of passage as a way to frame the party’s core beliefs heading into 2016.
总统顾问们在规划未来两年的蓝图时，把焦点集中在了三个方面：第一，总统无需国会批准就能推进的议程，第二，与共和党之间新形成的妥协态度，可能导致哪些立法，第三，奥巴马能够推动的一些问题，即使它们没有通过议会的希望，也可以为该党2016年后的核心理念制定框架。
Beyond immigration, aides said, Mr. Obama is determined to use his power to push for more environmental rules to curb climate change, and they said new Democratic governors could give the president a chance to expand the reach of his health care program in states where Republican governors had resisted. But Mr. Obama has to weigh the consequences of provoking Republicans by using his power to bypass them if he wants to find compromises, too.
助手们说，除了移民问题之外，奥巴马还决心利用自己的权力，来推动更多的环保法规，以遏制气候变化。他们说，新的民主党州长们可以为总统带来机会，把其医保计划的覆盖面扩大到一些曾遭受共和党州长抵制的州。但利用总统权力来绕过共和党就会激怒他们，如果奥巴马想要达成一些妥协，就得权衡一下这么做会造成怎样的后果。
“The world is going to look one of several ways on Wednesday morning,” said a senior White House official, who described strategy on the condition of anonymity. “The challenge to date has been the Republican unwillingness to compromise. Will that change after Tuesday’s elections? It’s too early to say. No one is naïvely thinking that the dynamics are going to change easily.”
“本周三早上，这个世界会变得不同，但有几种可能性，”一位不愿具名的白宫高级官员在描述战略时说。“此前我们面临的挑战就是共和党不愿妥协。周二的选举后，情况会发生变化吗？目前言之尚早。没有人会天真地以为，状况会轻易改变。”
David Axelrod, a former adviser to Mr. Obama, said the president should make a fresh effort to work with the new Congress despite deep frustrations that led him to bypass legislators this year. “I really think he has to feel out what there’s a willingness to do,” he said. “What he can’t do and won’t do is put his feet up on the desk and cross days off the calendar.”
奥巴马的前顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说，尽管深深的挫败感导致总统今年绕开了立法者，但他应该再次做出努力，与新国会开展合作。“我真的认为，他必须打探一下国会现在愿意做哪些事情，”他说。“总统不能也不会做的事情，就是把脚跷在桌子，每天在日历上画个叉。”