WASHINGTON — President Obama this week will seek to force American businesses to pay more overtime to millions of workers, the latest move by his administration to confront corporations that have had soaring profits even as wages have stagnated.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统将于本周尝试迫使美国商界向数以百万计的劳动者支付加班费。在直面利润激增、薪酬却停滞不前的企业方面，这是奥巴马政府采取的最新举措。
On Thursday, the president will direct the Labor Department to revamp its regulations to require overtime pay for several million additional fast-food managers, loan officers, computer technicians and others who many businesses currently classify as “executive or professional” employees to avoid paying them overtime, according to White House officials briefed on the announcement.
知情白宫官员透露，本周四，总统将指示劳工部修改相关监管规定，要求将快餐业经理、信贷员和电脑技工等人数达几百万的劳动者囊括在必须支付加班费的范畴中。按照目前的分类，许多企业将这些雇员列为“管理或专业”人士，以避免向他们支付加班费。
Mr. Obama’s decision to use his executive authority to change the nation’s overtime rules is likely to be seen as a challenge to Republicans in Congress, who have already blocked most of the president’s economic agenda and have said they intend to fight his proposal to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 per hour from $7.25.
奥巴马动用行政权来改革有关加班的联邦条例的做法很可能被视为对国会共和党人的挑战。后者已经阻挠了奥巴马多数的经济议程，并且扬言准备对抗他提出的将联邦最低工资标准从每小时7.25美元（约合44.5元人民币）提高到10.10美元的建议。
Mr. Obama’s action is certain to anger the business lobby in Washington, which has long fought for maximum flexibility for companies in paying overtime.
奥巴马的此番行动必将惹恼华盛顿的商业界游说团体。这些机构长期致力于让企业在加班费问题上保有最大限度的灵活性。
In 2004, business groups persuaded President George W. Bush’s administration to allow them greater latitude on exempting salaried white-collar workers from overtime pay, even as organized labor objected.
2004年，在工会组织的反对之下，商业界团体说服乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府，允许企业在免除白领员工加班费问题上拥有更大的自由度。
Conservatives criticized Mr. Obama’s impending action. “There’s no such thing as a free lunch,” said Daniel Mitchell, a senior fellow with the Cato Institute, who warned that employers might cut pay or use fewer workers.
保守派对奥巴马即将采取的行动予以了批评。“从来就不存在免费的午餐，”加图研究所(Cato Institute)的高级研究员丹尼尔·米切尔(Daniel Mitchell)说。他警告，雇主可能会给员工降薪或是减少雇佣人数。
Mr. Obama’s authority to act comes from his ability as president to revise the rules that carry out the Fair Labor Standards Act, which Congress originally passed in 1938. Mr. Bush and previous presidents used similar tactics at times to work around opponents in Congress.
奥巴马采取行动的权力，源自他修改法规的总统权。这些法规是国会于1938年首次通过的《公平劳动标准法》(Fair Labor Standards Act)的执行细则。布什等前总统也曾偶尔运用类似的手法来绕过国会的反对。
The proposed new regulations would increase the number of people who qualify for overtime and continue Mr. Obama’s fight against what he says is a crisis of economic inequality in the country. Changes to the regulations will be subject to public comment before final approval by the Labor Department, and it is possible that strong opposition could cause Mr. Obama to scale back his proposal.
提议中的新监管规定不仅将提高符合领取加班费资格的人数，还会延续奥巴马与他口中的美国经济不平等的对抗。相关法规的变更需要在劳工部最终批准前经由公众评论，如若面临强烈反对，也可能导致奥巴马减小提议的力度。
Since the mid-1980s, corporate profits have soared, reaching a post-World War II record as a share of economic output. The profits of the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 have doubled since the recession ended in June 2009, but wages have stagnated for a vast majority of workers in the same period. Recently, workers’ wages fell close to an all-time low as a share of the economy.
上世纪80年代中期开始，企业利润飙升，在经济产出中的占比达二战后的最高点。2009年6月结束经济衰退以来，标准普尔500企业的利润实现翻番，同期大部分员工的薪酬却在原地踏步。最近，劳动者工资与整体经济的比值降至历史新低。
In 2012, the share of the gross domestic income that went to workers fell to 42.6 percent, the lowest on record.
在2012年的国内总收入中，员工获得的收入占比滑落到42.6%，为历史最低水平。
Under current federal regulations, workers who are deemed executive, administrative or professional employees can be denied overtime pay under a so-called white-collar exemption.
按照目前的联邦法规，被归为管理、行政或职业人士的员工参照所谓的白领例外原则不能获得加班费。
Under the new rules that Mr. Obama is seeking, fewer salaried employees could be blocked from receiving overtime, a move that would potentially shift billions of dollars’ worth of corporate income into the pockets of workers. Currently, employers are prohibited from denying time-and-a-half overtime pay to any salaried worker who makes less than $455 per week. Mr. Obama’s directive would significantly increase that salary level.
根据奥巴马试图推行的新法规，不能拿加班费的受薪雇员的人数将有所减少。这一举措有可能将数十亿美元的企业收入转移到劳动者的荷包里。目前的规定是，周薪少于455美元的受薪雇员均不得被排除在1.5倍加班工资之外。奥巴马的行政令将大幅提高这一基线。