UPPER MARLBORO, Md. — President Obama on Tuesday ordered the development of tough new fuel standards for the nation’s fleet of heavy-duty trucks as part of what aides say will be an increasingly muscular and unilateral campaign to tackle climate change through the use of the president’s executive power.
马里兰州上马尔伯勒——奥巴马总统周二下令，针对国内重型卡车队研究制定一套严格的新燃油标准，助手们称他将利用总统行政权力展开越来越有力的单边行动，以应对气候变化问题，而此举就是该行动的一部分。
The new regulations, to be drafted by the administration by March 2015 and completed a year later so they are in place before Mr. Obama leaves office, are the latest in a series of actions intended to cut back on greenhouse gases without the sort of comprehensive legislation the president failed to push through Congress in his first term.
这项新规定将由政府在2015年3月前给出草案，一年后完成，亦即在奥巴马卸任前就位，它是近来一系列行动的最新举措，希望在没有全面立法的情况下对温室气体排放加以控制。在他的第一个任期内，奥巴马曾希望通过国会推行这些举措，但无功而返。
The limits on truck tailpipe pollution would combine with previous rules requiring passenger cars and light trucks to burn fuel more efficiently and pending rules to limit the carbon emissions of power plants. Cumulatively, experts said the à la carte approach should enable Mr. Obama to meet his target of cutting carbon pollution in the United States by 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. But they said he would still be far short of his goal of an 80 percent reduction by 2050.
对卡车排气污染的限制措施，将会和要求客车和轻型卡车提高燃油效率的现行规定，以及即将实施的发电厂碳排放限制规定结合在一起。专家称，经过一点点的积累，这种分门别类制定具体规则的办法最终能让奥巴马实现一个目标，即在2005年的基础上，在2020年以前将美国的碳污染水平降低17%。不过他们也说，到2050年实现80%降幅的目标依然显得遥不可及。
“Improving gas mileage for these trucks is going to drive down our oil imports even further,” Mr. Obama said at a Safeway grocery distribution center here, flanked by a Peterbilt truck and Safeway and Coca-Cola cabs. “That reduces carbon pollution even more, cuts down on businesses’ fuel costs, which should pay off in lower prices for consumers. So it’s not just a win-win, it’s a win-win-win. We got three wins.”
“改善这些卡车的油效将进一步降低我们的石油进口，”奥巴马在本地一家西夫韦(Safeway)食品分销中心说，他的身边停着一辆彼得比尔特(Peterbilt)卡车以及西夫韦和可口可乐(Coca-Cola)的卡车车头。“那样就可以更大幅度地减少碳污染，削减企业的燃料成本，消费者也会从更低的价格中获益。所以这不只是双赢，这是三赢。”
Not everyone sees it that way. United States car and truck manufacturers have lobbied heavily against aggressive increases in federal fuel economy standards, saying that they could increase vehicle prices and diminish safety. More broadly, Republicans have said that the president should not single-handedly impose what they consider onerous requirements on vast swaths of the energy economy when Congress has opted against its own intervention.
并非所有人都这么看。美国的小汽车和卡车生产商一直在奋力游说，反对大幅提高联邦燃油效率标准，说那样会提高车辆的价格，降低安全性。在更宽泛的层面上，共和党人认为在国会已经选择不插手干预的情况下，总统不应该自顾自地将义务强加于影响广泛的能源经济，而且这些义务在他们看来太过沉重。
The announcement was part of the president’s vow in his State of the Union address last month to advance his agenda “with or without Congress.” But while most of the actions taken since then have been relatively modest, like ordering a study of job training programs, one area where Mr. Obama both has the power to take more sweeping action and seems intent on using it is the environment.
该决定是和总统在上月国情咨文演说中立下的誓言是一致的，当时他说“无论有没有国会”，他都会向着自己的目标推进。此后出台的大多数举措都不算太起眼，比如下令对就业培训项目展开一项研究，不过唯一一个奥巴马既有展开全面行动的权力，又有利用它的意愿的领域，就是环保了。
In the case of carbon pollution, Mr. Obama has the legal authority under the 1970 Clean Air Act, which requires the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate any substance designated as a pollutant that harms or endangers human health. In 2009, the E.P.A. determined that carbon dioxide, emitted in large quantities from tailpipes and smokestacks, meets that definition.
在碳污染的问题上，奥巴马拥有1970年《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)赋予的法律权力，该法要求环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)对任何被认定能伤害或威胁人类健康的污染物加以管制。环保局于2009年裁定，从车辆排气管和烟囱大量排出的二氧化碳符合该界定。
While Mr. Obama effectively gave up on comprehensive climate legislation after it stalled in the Senate in his first term, aides said he saw climate change as an area where he could still shape his legacy. The president recently recruited John D. Podesta, a former White House chief of staff for President Bill Clinton, to join his team as counselor in part to direct a more aggressive approach to the issue.
自从在第一界任期内受到参议院阻挠后，奥巴马实际上已经放弃了全面的气候立法，但助手们说，他认为气候变化依然是一个可以成就他政绩的领域。总统近日请曾任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统白宫幕僚长的约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)加入他的团队，担任顾问，其中一个目的就是要在该问题上采取更强硬的手段。
“They have to do the actions at home to show the rest of the international community that they’re doing the actions they need the rest of the world to do,” said Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development, a Washington research organization.
华盛顿研究机构管理与可持续发展研究所(Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development)所长德伍德·策尔克(Durwood Zaelke)说，“他们必须在本国先行动起来，向国际社会表明，他们希望其他国家也能一起行动起来。”
But environmental advocates warn that the E.P.A. rules will only be effective if they withstand legal and legislative efforts to undo them, which is why they want Mr. Obama to be more energetic about selling them to the public. 
但环保倡导人士警告，环保局的规定能否起作用，取决于它们能否顶住那些寻求废除它们的司法和立法活动，因此他们希望奥巴马要更积极地向公众推销这些规定。
“If you make a push purely on the executive action front and you don’t back it up with measures to bolster public support, a lot of this can crumble under a new administration,” said Michael Levi, a climate change expert at the Council on Foreign Relations.
“如果你纯粹通过行政手段去推行，而不采取措施寻求公众支持，从而巩固这些手段，那么等到新政府上台，它们多半会垮掉，”对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)气候变化专家迈克尔·莱维(Michael Levi)说。