President Obama, in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly, presented a powerful picture of a world at the cusp, torn between forces of integration and disintegration, woven together by the very technology also used to deliver images of medieval beheadings, full of a “pervasive unease” despite material and scientific progress, obliged at the centennial of the outbreak of World War I to look again “into the heart of darkness.”
奥巴马总统在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的演讲中，以强有力的措辞描述了一个矛盾中的世界：它被整合与分化的势力所撕裂；又被传播了残忍斩首画面的科技联系起来；尽管在物质和科技上取得了进步，却仍然充斥着“普遍的不安”；在第一次世界大战爆发的百年纪念之时，它却不得不重新凝视“黑暗的核心”。
It was a strong speech from a president stirred from the wavering idioms of a season of uncertainty by the sudden advance out of the carnage of Syria of the organization that calls itself the Islamic State. “The only language understood by killers like this is the language of force,” Obama said. He vowed to dismantle “this network of death” through military action and turning social media against the ISIS propagandists that use it to such effect.
这番强硬的演说来自一位曾经陷入不确定状态、说话吞吞吐吐的总统。而将他从这种状态中唤醒的，是一个自称伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）的组织在叙利亚战场上的突然崛起。“这些杀人狂唯一能够理解的语言就是武力，”奥巴马说。他发誓要通过军事行动，并且利用ISIS的宣传人员所使用过的社交媒体，摧毁“这个死亡网络”。
On the same day, a French mountain guide, Hervé Gourdel, was beheaded in Algeria by a jihadi group that pledged allegiance this month to ISIS. Whether the president’s words or such potent images of savagery have greater global impact is an open question that points to the difficulties of the mission outlined by Obama and the giddying nature of a post-hierarchical world.
就在同一天，法国登山导游埃尔韦·古德尔(Hervé Gourdel)在阿尔及利亚被一个在本月誓言效忠ISIS的圣战组织斩首。目前尚难知晓的是，究竟是奥巴马的讲话，还是记录暴行的骇人视频，会在全球产生更大的影响力。而这个问题则突显了奥巴马描述的任务的艰难程度，以及一个后等级社会的世界让人无所适从的本质。
Obama, a leader bent on the extraction of the United States from war without victory in the Middle East, did not expect to find himself three-quarters of the way through his presidency making a call to arms for a new fight against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. The world, a quarter-century after the fall of the Berlin Wall, did not expect to find itself at what Obama called “a crossroads between war and peace.” The hopes, so recent, of the Arab Spring did not seem destined for such rapid smothering. The liberal and democratic order of the West had not seemed vulnerable at a time of technology-driven opening.
奥巴马曾经一心想让美国在未取得胜利的情况下退出中东的战争，他从未料到，自己在任期已过四分之三的时候会发出战斗号令，在伊拉克和叙利亚对ISIS发动一场新的战争。在柏林墙倒塌了四分之一个世纪后，这个世界也没有料到，自己会处在奥巴马所说的“战争与和平的十字路口”。就在不久之前，阿拉伯之春带来的希望还没有被如此迅速扼杀的征兆。曾几何时，在一个以科技为动力的开放时代，西方的自由和民主秩序也从没有显得不堪一击。
How then did this “pervasive unease” arise? The dangers of a global system in transition from the ordering power of the United States to something as yet undefined were underestimated. The potential of globalization to stir new forms of nationalism — identity asserting itself against abstract forces — was not fully appreciated. The social rot and sectarian division seeping through an Arab world that had been frozen in despotism for decades was far greater than imagined. The financial meltdown of 2008 and the perceived failures of democracies skewed by money have raised lasting questions about the Western model.
那这种“普遍的不安”从何而来？在从美国的主导地位到某种不确定东西的过渡阶段，全球体系所面临的风险被低估了。全球化激发新的民族主义形式的潜力——面对抽象势力自我强化的身份——没有得到充分重视。在被专制制度禁锢了几十年的阿拉伯世界，社会腐化和教派分歧的侵蚀性比想象中严重得多。2008年的金融灾难，以及人们眼中的为金钱所扭曲的民主制度的失败，引发了关于西方模式的持久质疑。
For a while Obama seemed to be sleepwalking through this unraveling, as if resigned to America’s more limited role. “The world has always been messy,” he said in August, sounding almost like a bystander. His attempt to calibrate every action, as if a perfect result were attainable, resulted in inaction. Vladimir Putin saw this. ISIS saw this. Now he has awoken to the need for American leadership and firmness. It is a belated awakening, but important. Syria has demonstrated how inaction can be more dangerous than the focused use of force, and a vacuum the best incubator of terrorism.
一段时间以来，奥巴马面对这种现实一直半梦半醒，似乎已经接受了美国的角色变得更加有限的事实。“这个世界一直是一团糟，”他在8月份如是说，简直就好像他是旁观者一样。他尝试调整每一次行动，仿佛完美的结果是可以获得的，最终却导致了不作为。弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)看出了这一点，ISIS也看出了这一点。现在，奥巴马意识到了美国发挥领导力以及表明决心的必要性。这是一次迟来的唤醒，但却很重要。叙利亚已经证明，不作为或许比集中使用武力更加危险，而真空则是恐怖主义的温床。
“No grievance justifies these actions. There can be no reasoning — no negotiation — with this brand of evil,” Obama said, adding: “In this effort, we do not act alone — nor do we intend to send U.S. troops to occupy foreign lands. Instead, we will support Iraqis and Syrians fighting to reclaim their communities. We will use our military might in a campaign of air strikes to roll back ISIL. We will train and equip forces fighting against these terrorists on the ground.”
“没有什么冤屈能为这种行为开脱。面对这种罪恶，无需讲道理，没必要谈判。”奥巴马说，“在这个目标上，我们不是独自行动，我们也不打算派美国的军队占领外国的领土。我们将支持伊拉克人和叙利亚人为夺回自己的家园而战。我们将利用我们的军事实力，通过空袭击退伊斯兰国。我们将训练和装备部队，在地面上打击这些恐怖分子。”
It is critical to this fight that the Sunni Arab states out of which ISIS has grown, and from whose financing it has benefited, be at the forefront of the struggle to stop the black-garbed authors of massacre and beheadings. Only Arabs can extirpate this cancer, a struggle that will require honesty and accountability unseen in their societies of evasion. Obama was right to aim a sharp barb at Saudi Arabia: “It’s time to end the hypocrisy of those who accumulate wealth through the global economy and then siphon funds to those who teach children to tear it down.”
对于这场战斗至关重要的是，逊尼派阿拉伯国家必须要走到战争的前线，阻止黑衣人的屠杀和斩首活动。ISIS曾经在这些国家发展壮大，并得益于它们的资助。只有阿拉伯人能够铲除这个毒瘤，这场斗争将需要这个习惯了逃避的社会拿出其前所未见的正直和责任感。奥巴马做对了，他把矛头对准了沙特阿拉伯：“对于那些通过全球经济积累了财富，然后又为教授儿童摧毁这一体系的人提供资金的人们来说，是时候停止你们的虚伪做派了。”
He was also right to point to the central failing of the Arab states: “If young people live in places where the only option is between the dictates of a state, or the lure of an extremist underground, then no counterterrorism strategy can succeed. But where a genuine civil society is allowed to flourish — where people can express their views, and organize peacefully for a better life — then you dramatically expand the alternatives to terror.”
奥巴马还有一件事也做对了，他指出了阿拉伯国家最大的失败：“如果在自己生活的地方，年轻人只能在政府的专政和一个地下极端组织的诱惑之间做出选择，那么任何反恐策略都将无济于事。”但在真正的公民社会可以兴盛发展的地方——在那里人们可以表达自己的看法，为更好的生活和平地组织起来——恐怖主义之外的选择就会显著增加。