HAVANA — President Obama touched down in Cuba on Sunday, becoming the first American leader to visit in nearly nine decades. His trip, the result of a stunning policy reversal 15 months ago, holds the potential to forge closer ties between longtime adversaries and exorcise one of the last ghosts of the Cold War.
奥巴马总统周日抵达古巴，成为将近90年来第一位访问该国的美国领导人。他此次得以成行，是15个月前一项惊人的政策逆转的结果。两国的隔阂是冷战的最后一缕阴霾，此次访问有望驱散阴霾，让这两个长期的对手建立更紧密的关系。
Just hours before Air Force One arrived at José Martí International Airport, however, the challenges of working more closely with Cuba became apparent as police officers, surrounded by pro-government demonstrators, detained dozens of protesters at a weekly march of the Ladies in White, a prominent dissident group.
然而，就在空军一号抵达何塞·马蒂国际机场(José Martí International Airport)仅仅几个小时之前，与古巴建立更紧密关系的挑战表露了出来：在古巴著名异见团体“白衣女士”(Ladies in White)的每周游行中，警方在亲政府示威者的环绕之下，逮捕了游行中的数十名抗议者。
The protest, which occurs on most Sundays outside a church in the Miramar district of Havana, was widely expected to be a test of Cuba’s tolerance for dissent during Mr. Obama’s trip. The arrests confirmed that the government was maintaining and intensifying its repressive tactics ahead of the visit.
大多数周日，这种抗议都会在哈瓦那米拉马尔区的一座教堂外举行。这场抗议被广泛视为一个考验，可以显示出古巴在奥巴马访问期间对异见人士有多大的容忍度。逮捕行动证明，在这次访问之前，政府维持并强化了打压措施。
“We thought there would be a truce, but it wasn’t to be,” said Elizardo Sánchez, who runs the Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation, noting that the arrests took place “in the moment that Obama was flying in the air to Cuba.”
“我们以为会暂时休战，但不是这样，”古巴人权及国家和解委员会(Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation)领导人埃利萨多·桑切斯(Elizardo Sanchez)指出，逮捕行动发生在“奥巴马乘飞机前往古巴的时候”。
The question of how to handle political opposition to President Raùl Castro’s government is one of many political thickets that Mr. Obama will have to navigate here.
如何对待古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raùl Castro)政府的政治反对派，这是奥巴马肯定会在这里遇到的政治难点之一。
Berta Soler, the head of the Ladies in White, is one of a dozen dissidents invited to meet with Mr. Obama on Tuesday at the United States Embassy. Other dissidents said, however, that it was not clear if she would attend because of her opposition to the American president’s policy of engagement.
“白衣女士”领袖贝尔塔·索莱尔(Berta Soler)是本周二应邀前往美国大使馆与奥巴马见面的十几名异见人士之一。然而其他异见人士说，尚不清楚她是否会到场，因为她反对美国总统的破冰政策。
Mr. Obama also arrives with a great deal of support for his effort to bring old enemies together, both among the Cuban people, who describe Mr. Obama as a transformative figure, and within the United States, where interest in Cuba has already begun to swell.
奥巴马的到来也获得了大量支持。由于他努力想让这两个老对手进行交往，古巴和美国的一些公众把奥巴马视为一个变革性的人物。美国境内对古巴的兴趣已经变得浓厚起来。
The president, who arrived with the first lady, Michelle Obama; their daughters, Sasha and Malia; and his mother-in-law, Marian Robinson, will begin and end his trip as a tourist in chief. He planned to stroll through Old Havana on Sunday and attend an exhibition baseball game between an American major-league team and Cuban players on Tuesday.
奥巴马总统将与第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)，他们的女儿萨莎(Sasha)和玛丽亚(Malia)，以及他的岳母玛丽安·罗宾逊(Marian Robinson)一同前往古巴。奥巴马将作为“首席游客”来开始和结束他的行程，他计划周日到哈瓦那旧城漫步，周二出席美国大联盟球队和古巴球员之间的棒球表演赛。
In between, his itinerary is shaped by the contradictions that still complicate the United States’ relationship with Cuba: a meeting on Monday with Mr. Castro at the Palace of the Revolution, the seat of the Communist government, and another on Tuesday with the group of dissidents who have been victims of government repression.
其间，他的行程安排也体现了制约古巴与美国双边关系的一些矛盾︰周一他与卡斯特罗在共产党政府的革命宫(Palace of the Revolution)会面，周二他与遭受政府压迫的异见人士团体会面。
Mr. Obama was accompanied by a large delegation of members of Congress from both parties who are eager to support his call to lift the trade embargo against Cuba, which still looms as an obstacle to the rapprochement the president is seeking.
陪同奥巴马前往古巴的国会议员代表团人数众多，由两党议员组成，他们积极支持奥巴马对解除古巴贸易禁运的呼吁；贸易禁运依然是一个障碍，阻挡在奥巴马寻求和解的道路上。