WASHINGTON — Just hours before announcing an escalated campaign against Islamic extremists last week, President Obama privately reflected on another time when a president weighed military action in the Middle East — the frenzied weeks leading up to the American invasion of Iraq a decade ago.
华盛顿——上周，美国总统奥巴马宣布，会对伊斯兰极端分子加大打击力度。就在这一决定公布数小时前，奥巴马在私下交谈时回顾起了另一位总统权衡在中东开展军事行动的时刻——美国十多年前出兵伊拉克之前，也有数周时间陷入了狂热。
“I was not here in the run-up to Iraq in 2003,” he told a group of visitors who met with him in the White House before his televised speech to the nation, according to several people who were in the meeting. “It would have been fascinating to see the momentum and how it builds.”
“2003年出兵伊拉克之前的那段时间，我不在这里，”面向全国发表电视讲话之前，奥巴马在白宫对一些客人说。“目睹那种推力，以及积蓄力量的过程，应该很有趣，”几位在场者转述道。
In his own way, Mr. Obama said, he had seen something similar, a virtual fever rising in Washington, pressuring him to send the armed forces after the Sunni radicals who had swept through Iraq and beheaded American journalists. He had told his staff, he said, not to evaluate their own policy based on external momentum. He would not rush to war. He would be deliberate.
奥巴马说，他自己也见到了类似的情景，华盛顿的狂热情绪日益高涨，迫使他派兵打击在伊拉克攻城掠地、斩首美国记者的逊尼派激进分子。他透露，自己对幕僚说过，不要依据外部的推力来评估自己的政策。他不会贸然发动战争。他会谨慎行事。
“But I’m aware I pay a political price for that,” he said.
“但我知道，我会为此付出政治代价，”他说。
His introspection that afternoon reflected Mr. Obama’s journey from the candidate who wanted to wind down America’s overseas wars to the commander in chief who just resumed and expanded one. For Mr. Obama, that spring of 2003, when President George W. Bush sent troops to topple Saddam Hussein, has framed his own presidency. He has spent nearly six years trying to avoid repeating it.
奥巴马那天下午的自省，体现了他从候选人转变为总司令的历程——前者希望逐步减小美国海外战争的规模，而后者刚刚重启并扩大了一场海外战争。2003年春，当时的总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)派兵推翻萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)。在奥巴马看来，那个时期为他自己的总统任期提供了参照。近六年来，奥巴马一直努力避免重蹈布什的覆辙。
In forming a plan to destroy the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria using airpower and local forces, but not regular American ground troops, he searched for ways to avoid the mistakes of the past. He felt “haunted,” he told his visitors, by the failure of a Special Forces raid to rescue the American hostages James Foley and Steven J. Sotloff — “we just missed them,” he said — but their subsequent murders were not the real reason he opted for war, although he noted that gruesome videos released by ISIS had helped galvanize public support for action.
为了避免重复以往的错误，他想方设法，制定了一个用空军力量和当地武装摧毁伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），但不动用美军常规地面部队的计划。奥巴马对来访者表示，特种部队突袭失败，没能救出美国人质詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)和史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)，这让他觉得“耿耿于怀”。他说，“我们没能救出他们。”但奥巴马表示，之后他们遭到杀害，并不是他选择开战的真正原因，不过他也指出，ISIS发布的可怕视频，激发了公众对采取行动的支持。
He was acutely aware that the operation he was about to embark on would not solve the larger issues in that region by the time he left office. “This will be a problem for the next president,” Mr. Obama said ruefully, “and probably the one after that.” But he alternated between resolve as he vowed to retaliate against President Bashar al-Assad if Syrian forces shot at American planes, and prickliness as he mocked critics of his more reticent approach to the exercise of American power.
他敏锐地认识到，将要采取的军事行动，无法在他卸任之前解决该地区存在的更大问题。“问题会留给下一任总统，”奥巴马懊恼地说，“甚至可能是下下任。”奥巴马时而决绝地说，如果叙利亚军队炮击美国飞机，就要对总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)采取报复，时而又尖刻地嘲笑那些批评他用比较谨慎的方式来施展美国实力的人。
“Oh, it’s a shame when you have a wan, diffident, professorial president with no foreign policy other than ‘don’t do stupid things,’ ” guests recalled him saying, sarcastically imitating his adversaries. “I do not make apologies for being careful in these areas, even if it doesn’t make for good theater.”
“哎，摊上一个病怏怏、缺乏自信、像个教授，除了‘不做傻事’之外，没别的外交政策的总统，多丢人啊，”客人回忆说，奥巴马用讽刺的语气模仿对手的嗓音说。“在这些方面小心谨慎，即使看起来不够威武，我也不会为之道歉。”
Mr. Obama went on to reveal his thoughts on challenges he faces in combating the threat from ISIS. He expressed his frustration with the French for paying ransoms to terrorists, asserted that Americans are kidnapped at lower rates because the United States does not, resisted the idea of Kurdistan’s breaking away from Iraq and even speculated on what he would have advised ISIS to do to keep America out of the war in the region.
接着，对于打击ISIS威胁的过程中所面临的挑战，奥巴马讲述了自己的想法，并对法国向恐怖分子支付赎金的做法表达了失望，声称美国人被绑架的情况较少，是因为美国不支付赎金。此外，他也对库尔德地区脱离伊拉克的想法表示了反对，甚至还考虑了，如果自己是ISIS的顾问，要想避免美国参与该地区的战争，会建议它怎么做。
This account of Mr. Obama’s thinking as he arrived at a pivotal point in his presidency is based on interviews with 10 people who spoke with him in the days leading up to his speech Wednesday night. In quoting his private remarks, the people were recalling what he said from their best memories.
奥巴马正处在其总统生涯的一个关键点上，本文对他这些想法的叙述，是基于十个人的回忆。在奥巴马上周三晚间发表讲话之前数日之内，这十个人都与他交谈过。在引用奥巴马的私下言谈时，这些人尽最大努力回想了他的话。
The president invited a group of foreign policy experts and former government officials to dinner on Monday, and a separate group of columnists and magazine writers for a discussion on Wednesday afternoon. Although three New York Times columnists and an editorial writer were among those invited to the second session, this account is drawn from people unaffiliated with The Times, some of whom insisted on anonymity because they were not supposed to share details of the conversations.
上周一，奥巴马邀请了一些外交政策专家和前政府官员参加宴会，上周三下午，他又邀请了另外一些专栏作者和杂志撰稿人讨论问题。虽然《纽约时报》有三名专栏作者和一名社评作者应邀参加了第二场会面，但是本文的叙述都来自与时报无关的人士。一些人坚持不具名，因为他们本不应该透露谈话的细节。
The guests came away with different impressions; some said they thought he still seemed ambivalent about the course he was taking in Iraq and Syria, while others said he appeared at peace.
奥巴马给客人们留下了不同的印象。有些人表示，他们觉得奥巴马对于在伊拉克和叙利亚采取行动仍然心存矛盾，但另外一些人说，他显得泰然自若。
“It’s fair to say when the president imagined where he’d be in this sixth year, I doubt he expected to be here,” said Richard N. Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Bush administration official who was among the guests at the dinner Monday. “But he’s been forced to react to events here.”
“这样说吧，奥巴马如果曾经设想过，自己担任总统的第六年会是怎样的情形，我觉得他不会料到会是这样，”对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)主席理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N. Haass)说。“但他不得不对发生的事情作出反应。”哈斯曾是前布什政府官员，也出席了奥巴马上周一的宴会。
If his thinking has evolved, Mr. Obama admitted no errors along the way. While some critics, and even his former secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, have faulted him for not arming moderate Syrian rebels years ago, Mr. Obama does not accept the premise that doing so would have forestalled the rise of ISIS.
虽然他的想法发生了转变，但奥巴马不承认之前犯过错。尽管一些批评者，甚至包括他的前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在内，纷纷指责他没有在几年前为叙利亚叛乱分子中的温和派提供武器，但奥巴马不承认当初这样做，就可以防止ISIS的崛起。
“I have thought that through and tried to apply 20-20 hindsight,” he told some of his guests, as one recalled. “I’m perfectly willing to admit they were right, but even if they were right, I still can’t see how that would have changed the situation.”
“我通盘考虑过，而且试图用事后的洞察来看待，”一位客人回忆，奥巴马对一些客人说。“我非常愿意承认他们是对的，但即使他们是对的，我还是看不出那能如何改变现况。”
Mr. Obama dwelled on the killings of the two American journalists, Mr. Foley and Mr. Sotloff, telling guests that he had authorized the Pentagon to develop a rescue attempt this summer on the same day the matter was brought to him. It was conducted within days and executed flawlessly, he said. He noted that the United States does not pay ransom to terrorists, but remarked with irritation that President François Hollande of France says his country does not, when in fact it does.
奥巴马对美国记者弗利和索特洛夫的遇害十分介怀。他对客人们说，今年夏天，自己在得知他们被绑架的当天，就授权五角大楼制定了营救计划。他说，几天内行动就展开了，而且执行得很完美。他指出，美国不会付赎金给恐怖分子，而且他还恼火地提到，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)说法国也不会那么做，但其实却付了赎金。
Mr. Obama had what guests on Wednesday afternoon described as a bereft look as he discussed the murders of Mr. Foley and Mr. Sotloff, particularly because two other Americans are still being held. Days later, ISIS would report beheading a British hostage with another video posted online Saturday.
上周三下午，奥巴马谈到弗利和索特洛夫的遭遇，特别是还有另外两名美国人仍然在由ISIS关押时，客人们称他显得痛心疾首。几天后，在上周六，ISIS又在网上发布了另一个英国人质遭到斩首的视频。
But the president said he had already been headed toward a military response before the men’s deaths. He added that ISIS had made a major strategic error by killing them because the anger it generated resulted in the American public’s quickly backing military action.
但是奥巴马说，在这些人被害之前，他就已经准备做出军事回应了。他还说，ISIS杀害他们是一项重大战略错误，因为此事激发的愤怒情绪，使得美国民众迅速对采取军事行动表示了支持。
If he had been “an adviser to ISIS,” Mr. Obama added, he would not have killed the hostages but released them and pinned notes on their chests saying, “Stay out of here; this is none of your business.” Such a move, he speculated, might have undercut support for military intervention.
如果自己是“ISIS的顾问”，奥巴马说，他就不会主张杀害人质，而是要求获释他们，并在他们的胸前挂个字条，写上“别来掺合，这不关你们的事”。他猜想，这样一来，可能削弱人们对军事干预的支持。
It was clear to the guests how aware Mr. Obama was of the critics who have charged him with demonstrating a lack of leadership. He brought up the criticism more than once with an edge of resentment in his voice.
客人们认为，很显然奥巴马知道有人批评他缺乏领导力。他不止一次提到这种批评，语气中带有一丝不满。
“He’s definitely feeling it,” said one guest. At one point, Mr. Obama noted acidly that President Ronald Reagan sent Marines to Lebanon only to have hundreds of them killed in a terrorist attack because of terrible planning, and then withdrew the remaining ones, leaving behind a civil war that lasted years. But Reagan, he noted, is hailed as a titan striding the earth.
“他肯定是感觉到了，”一个客人说。奥巴马尖刻地指出罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统曾派遣海军陆战队到黎巴嫩作战，结果因为计划不当，导致数百人在一起可怕的恐怖袭击中阵亡，里根随后将剩余的将士撤出。此后，黎巴嫩陷入了多年的内战之中。但奥巴马指出，里根被人们赞颂为一代伟人。