WASHINGTON — In his strongest denunciation of Donald Trump so far, President Barack Obama on Tuesday said Trump was “unfit to serve as president” and urged the leaders of the Republican Party to withdraw their backing for his candidacy.
华盛顿——周二，美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)对唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)发出迄今为止最强烈的谴责，称他“不适合当总统”，并呼吁共和党领导层收回对他提名资格的支持。
Obama said the Republican criticisms of Trump “ring hollow” if the party’s leaders continue to support his bid for the presidency this fall, particularly in light of Republican criticisms of Trump for his attacks on the Muslim parents of an American soldier, Humayun Khan, who died in Iraq.
奥巴马表示，尤其考虑到，特朗普对在伊拉克阵亡的美国士兵胡马雍·汗(Humayun Khan)的穆斯林父母进行的指责，正引起共和党的批评，如果共和党继续支持特朗普在秋季争夺总统职位，共和党对他的批评就是“空话”。
“The question they have to ask themselves is: If you are repeatedly having to say in very strong terms that what he has said is unacceptable, why are you still endorsing him?” Obama said at a news conference at the White House.
“他们必须问自己这样一个问题：如果你不得不反复以严厉的措辞表示他的言论令人无法接受，为何却还在支持他？”奥巴马在白宫举行的一场新闻发布会上说。
Obama said that in addition to Trump’s comments about the Khan family, the Republican nominee had demonstrated that he was “woefully unprepared to do this job.” The president said Trump lacked knowledge about Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
奥巴马还表示，除了对汗一家发出攻击言论，这位共和党提名人也表现出他“极其不适合这份工作”。奥巴马称特朗普缺乏对欧洲、中东和亚洲地区的了解。
“This isn’t a situation where you have an episodic gaffe. This is daily,” Obama added. “There has to be a point at which you say, this is not somebody I can support for president of the United States, even if he purports to be a member of my party. The fact that that has not yet happened makes some of these denunciations ring hollow.”
“这不是偶尔的失态。而是每天如此，”奥巴马接着讲。“肯定有那么一个时刻，你会意识到，我不能支持这样一个人当总统，尽管他标榜自己是共和党的一员。这种情况没有出现，令其中一些谴责成了空话。”
Obama’s comments came as he stood next to Lee Hsien Loong, the prime minister of Singapore, in the East Room of the White House. The president is hosting a state dinner Tuesday evening to highlight 50 years of cooperation in Asia between the two countries.
发表上述评论时，奥巴马和新加坡总统李显龙(Lee Hsien Loong)一起站在白宫东厅里。他在周二晚上举行国宴，彰显两国过去50年里在亚洲的合作。
That setting stood in sharp contrast to Trump, who was delivering a campaign speech in a rally at Briar Woods High School in Ashburn, Virginia, at the same time that Obama made his remarks.
这样的场景与特朗普形成鲜明的对比。在奥巴马做上述发言时，特朗普正在弗吉尼亚州阿什本的布里亚-伍兹高中(Briar Woods High School)举行的一场集会活动上发表竞选演说。
Trump questioned Hillary Clinton’s ability to serve as president and calling her a “thief” who should not be allowed to serve in the Oval Office.
特朗普质疑希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)担当美国总统的能力，称她是不该被允许在椭圆办公室任职的“窃贼”。
“She’s got a bad temperament,” he told a packed auditorium. “She’s got the temperament of a loser.”
“她性格不好，”他告诉挤满礼堂的听众。“她有属于输家的性格。”
Four minutes into his speech he accused Clinton of lying to Chris Wallace on Fox News Sunday, as chants of “Lock her up!” filled the auditorium.
开讲四分钟后，他便指责克林顿在《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)节目上对主持人克里斯·华莱士(Chris Wallace)撒谎。与此同时，“把她关起来！”的喊声响彻礼堂。
“She said the FBI director said like everything was just perfect, and it wasn’t,” Trump said in reference to James B. Comey and the bureau’s inquiry into her personal email server. “I mean, she lied. She, pure and simple, she only knows to lie. She really does. She only knows to lie. But she lied, and it’s a big story.”
“她说联邦调查局(FBI)局长说一切都没问题，不是那么回事，”特朗普指的是詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)和FBI对克林顿的私人邮件服务器进行的调查。“我是说，她撒了谎。她根本只会撒谎。她真的是那样。她只知道撒谎。不过，她撒谎了，这是件大事。”
And even as Obama discussed trade policy and security issues with the Singaporean prime minister, Trump criticized world leaders. He said he would ask Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, “what went wrong” in her country. And he criticized Clinton for what he called “terrible relations” with President Vladimir Putin of Russia.
奥巴马与新加坡总统正在谈论贸易政策和安全问题时，特朗普在指责世界领导人。他说他会问问德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)她的国家“出了什么问题”。他还因他所说的与俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的“恶劣关系”指责克林顿。
While there was no immediate reaction to Obama’s comments from House Speaker Paul D. Ryan or Sen. Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, one Republican House member had already taken the president’s advice earlier Tuesday.
尽管众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)暂时还没有对奥巴马的评论做出反应，但一位共和党众议员已经在周二早些时候接受了奥巴马的建议。
U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna, R-N.Y., said Tuesday morning that he plans to vote for Clinton, calling Trump “unfit to serve” as the nation’s president and commander in chief.
纽约州共和党众议员理查德·汉纳(Richard Hanna)周二上午表示，他打算投票给克林顿，称特朗普“不适合担任”美国总统和三军统帅。
Hanna, who is retiring at the end of his term in January, has said before that he could not support Trump’s candidacy. But his willingness to endorse Clinton, a Democrat, sends a dramatic message to his colleagues in the Republican Party.
将于1月底任期结束时退休的汉纳此前就曾表示，他无法支持特朗普当候选人。但他愿意表达对民主党候选人克林顿的支持这一点，向他在共和党的同僚发出了一个十分动人的讯息。
He announced his decision in an interview and in a column that he posted on Syracuse.com. In both, he said he came to his decision to support Clinton in part because of Trump’s comments about Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the parents of the fallen American soldier.
他在一次访谈以及一篇发布在Syracuse.com网站上的专栏中宣布了这一决定。他表示，之所以做出支持克林顿的决定，有一部分原因是特朗普对阵亡美国士兵的父母希兹尔·汗(Khizr)和加扎拉·汗(Ghazala Khan)的评论。
“I was stunned by the callousness of his comments,” Hanna said. “I think Trump is a national embarrassment. Is he really the guy you want to have the nuclear codes?”
“我为他言语中的冷酷无情感到震惊，”汉纳说。“我觉得特朗普是一个国家耻辱。你真的愿意让这样的人掌控核武器密码吗？”