The White House on Tuesday introduced President Obama’s blueprint for cutting greenhouse gas emissions in the United States by nearly a third over the next decade.
周二，白宫推出了奥巴马总统的温室气体排放削减蓝图，其中计划让美国的排放量在未来十年内削减近三分之一。
The United States and China are the world’s two largest greenhouse gas polluters. Mr. Obama said the United States would cut its emissions by 26 to 28 percent by 2025, while Mr. Xi said that China’s emissions would drop after 2030.
美国和中国是世界上温室气体排放量最大的两个国家。奥巴马表示，美国计划到2025年削减26%到28%的排放，而中国国家主席习近平则称，该国的排放将在2030年达到峰值。
Mr. Obama’s new blueprint brings together several domestic initiatives that were already in the works, including freezing construction of new coal-fired power plants, increasing the fuel economy of vehicles and plugging methane leaks from oil and gas production. It is meant to describe how the United States will lead by example and meet its pledge for cutting emissions.
奥巴马的这份新蓝图融合了已在实施的几项国内计划，包括冻结新火电厂的建设、提高机动车的燃油经济性，以及堵住油气生产中的甲烷泄露。它意在描述美国将如何以身作则，履行其减排承诺。
But the plan’s reliance on executive authority is an acknowledgment that any proposal to pass climate change legislation would be blocked by the Republican-controlled Congress.
不过，该计划对行政令的倚仗实际上承认了，任何想通过气候变化立法的提议均将遭到共和党人控制的国会的扼杀。
At the heart of the plan are ambitious but politically contentious Environmental Protection Agency regulations meant to drastically cut planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions from the nation’s cars and coal-fired power plants. The plan also relies on a speedy timetable, which assumes that Mr. Obama’s administration will issue and begin enacting all such regulations before he leaves office.
计划的核心是美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）做出的雄心勃勃但在政治上充满争议的规定。这些规定意在大幅削减汽车和火电厂排放的温室气体二氧化碳。该计划还有赖于推进速度，这一切的前提是奥巴马政府会在总统离职前颁布并开始实施各种相关规定。
“We can achieve this goal using laws that are already on the books, and it will be in place by the time the president leaves office,” said Brian C. Deese, Mr. Obama’s senior adviser on climate change.
“我们可以运用现已成文的法律来达到这一目标，总统离职之前就将到位，”奥巴马在气候变化方面的高级顾问布莱恩·C·迪斯(Brian C. Deese)称。
But the plan has also intensified opposition from Republican lawmakers who object to Mr. Obama’s effort to build a climate change legacy. Republicans have called the rules a “war on coal” and an abuse of executive authority. Nearly every potential Republican presidential candidate has criticized Mr. Obama’s climate change agenda. The issue is expected to be important in 2016 political campaigns, with Republican candidates vowing to undo Mr. Obama’s E.P.A. regulations.
然而，该计划也招致了共和党议员更激烈的反弹，他们反对奥巴马在气候变化方面积累政治遗产的做法。共和党人称此类规定是“对煤炭的战争”，是在滥用行政权。共和党中有望投身总统竞选的几乎所有人选都曾抨击过奥巴马的气候变化议程。由于共和党候选人纷纷誓言废除奥巴马治下的EPA监管规定，气候变化议题预计会在2016年的政治竞选中成为一个重点。
Republican leaders immediately savaged the plan Tuesday and announced their intent to weaken or undo it — and, by extension, to block the international efforts to reach a climate accord in Paris.
周二的时候，共和党领导层即刻展开了对该计划的猛烈抨击，并且宣布他们准备对它加以削弱或废除，而这也就意味着他们准备阻止在巴黎达成气候协议的国际努力。
“Even if the job-killing and likely illegal Clean Power Plan were fully implemented, the United States could not meet the targets laid out in this proposed new plan,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader and Republican from Kentucky, who has been a vocal critic of the president’s plan.
“清洁电力计划(Clean Power Plan)扼杀就业还很可能违法，就算得到了全面实施，美国还是不能满足这项新计划中罗列的目标，”参议院多数党领袖、来自肯塔基州的共和党人米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)评价道。他一直对奥巴马的此类计划持强烈批判的立场。
“Considering that two-thirds of the U.S. federal government hasn’t even signed off on the Clean Power Plan and 13 states have already pledged to fight it,” Mr. McConnell continued, “our international partners should proceed with caution before entering into a binding, unattainable deal.”
“美国联邦政府的三分之二根本尚未批准清洁电力计划，还有13个州已经发誓要加以抗争。在这种情况下，我们的国际伙伴在达成一项无法实现的有约束力的协议之前，应当谨慎行事，”麦康奈尔还说。
Environmental groups praised the plan, particularly the president’s effort to work around Congress.
环保团体则对这项计划予以了赞扬，尤其是总统为绕开国会所做的努力。
“The United States’ proposal shows that it is ready to lead by example on the climate crisis,” said Jennifer Morgan, an expert on international climate negotiations at the World Resources Institute, a Washington research organization. The research of Ms. Morgan’s group has concluded that the United States can substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions under existing federal authority.
“美国的提议展示出，它准备好了在气候危机的问题上以身作则，”世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)国际气候谈判方面的专家珍妮弗·摩根(Jennifer Morgan)表示。她所在的机构位于华盛顿，而他们的研究得出的结论是，遵照目前的联邦指令，美国可以大幅削减温室气体排放。
However, environmental groups also said far deeper cuts are necessary beyond 2025 to stave off the most devastating effects of climate change.
不过，环保团体同时表示，为了缓解气候变化造成的最大破坏，有必要在2025年之后进行更大力度的排放削减。
“In fact the U.S. must do more than just deliver on this pledge — the 28 percent domestic target can and must be a floor, not a ceiling,” said Lou Leonard, vice president for climate change policy with the conservation group World Wildlife Fund.
“实际上，美国决不能止步于简单地履行这项承诺——28%的国内目标可以是也必须是个下限，而非上限，”环保团体世界自然基金会(World Wildlife Fund)负责气候变化政策的副会长洛乌·莱昂纳德(Lou Leonard)说。
Republicans also adamantly oppose Mr. Obama’s efforts to reach the United Nations accord in Paris. To bypass the Senate — which would have to ratify United States involvement in a foreign treaty — Secretary of State John Kerry and other diplomatic officials are working closely with their foreign counterparts to ensure that the Paris deal does not legally qualify as a treaty.
共和党人还坚决反对奥巴马为促成在巴黎达成一项气候变化方面的联合国协议所做的努力。涉外条约必须经由联邦参议院的正式批准。为了绕开参议院，以国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)为首的外交官员在与外国同仁紧密合作，以便确保巴黎协议不符合法律上对“条约”的定义。
Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican, has put together legislation intended to nullify Mr. Obama’s international climate change agreements. Republican leaders may try to add that as an amendment to must-pass legislation, like a critical spending measure later this year, to force the hands of Mr. Obama and other Democrats.
来自密苏里州的共和党参议员罗伊·布朗特(Roy Blunt)已起草了一份立法提案，旨在令奥巴马的国际气候协议无效。共和党领导层或许会尝试将它列为必须通过的某项立法的一个修正案，比如附加到今年晚些时候的一项关键性的开支提案上， 从而迫使奥巴马及民主党人出招。
“Just as we witnessed throughout recent negotiations with Iran and during the previous climate agreement with China, President Obama and his administration act as if Congress has no role in these discussions. That’s just flat-out wrong,” Mr. Blunt said in a written statement.
“正如我们看到的那样，无论是近期与伊朗谈判的整个过程，还是之前与中国的气候协议，奥巴马总统及其政府的行为方式就好像国会在这些讨论中没有位置一样。这是完全错误的，”布朗特发表书面声明称。
“We will not stand by and allow the president to unilaterally enact bad energy policies that hurt our nation’s poorest families and young people the most,” he added. “I’ll continue working with my colleagues to ensure Americans’ voices are heard.”
“我们不会靠边站，眼看着总统单方面实施糟糕的能源政策，对我们国家最穷困的家庭和年轻人造成最大的伤害，”他还说。“我将继续与同事合作，确保美国民众的声音得到倾听。”
Todd D. Stern, the State Department’s chief envoy on climate change, is telling other countries that the elements of Mr. Obama’s plan will stay in place despite Republican opposition.
国务院气候变化首席谈判代表托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)在知会其他国家，尽管有来自共和党的反对，奥巴马这份计划中的精髓部分将得以保留。
“Undoing the kind of regulation we’re putting in place is very tough,” he said.
“废除我们正在实施的这类监管规定是非常艰难的，”他说。
However, the rules have already come under legal assault. Republicans intend to stress to other nations that the regulations could still fall to legal challenges.
不过，这些规定已经在法律上遭遇了冲击。共和党想要向其他国家强调，此类监管规定仍然可能陷入法律挑战。
There is also growing concern that most other countries have yet to submit similar plans. At a United Nations accord signed in Lima, Peru, in December, countries agreed to submit their plans to one of the organization’s websites by the end of March. Climate policy experts said keeping to that timetable was important, so that each government prepared and analyzed its own domestic climate change plans and those of other nations.
而且，人们也越来越多地担忧，多数其他国家尚未提交类似计划。根据去年12月在秘鲁利马签署的一项联合国协定，各国同意在今年3月底前向该组织的一家网站提交各自的方案。气候政策专家称，跟上这个时间进度颇为重要，这样各方政府就能准备并分析自身及其他国家的气候变化计划。
But as of Tuesday, only the European Union, Mexico, Norway and Switzerland had done so. Most of the rest of the world’s major polluters — including China, India, Brazil and Russia — are not expected to submit plans until at least June, and some expect delays until at least October.
可是，截至周二，只有欧盟、墨西哥、挪威和瑞士遵守了时限。多数其他的大排放国，比如中国、印度、巴西和俄罗斯，提交计划的时间估计至少要等到6月，有一些则可能推迟到至少10月份。