WASHINGTON — President Obama’s State of the Union address represented a study in scaled-down ambition.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统的国情咨文演说代表着一种收敛的抱负。
A man who entered the White House yearning for sweeping achievements finds himself five years later threatening an end run around gridlock on Capitol Hill by using executive orders, essentially acknowledging both the limits of his ability to push an agenda through Congress and the likelihood that future accomplishments would be narrow.
五年前那个渴望入主白宫成就千秋大业的人，如今威胁用行政命令避开国会山的僵局，这等于承认了自己推动国会通过议程的能力有限，未来取得成就的可能性也已经不大。
He urged Republicans to join him in a “year of action,” but signaled strongly he would act unilaterally when bipartisan agreement remained out of reach — a possibility he raised himself.
奥巴马呼吁共和党人与他一起进入一个“行动年”，但又明显地暗示，如果两党无法达成共识——是他自己提出了这种可能性——他将采取单方面行动。
“The question for everyone in this chamber, running through every decision we make this year, is whether we are going to help or hinder this progress,” Mr. Obama told lawmakers as he reminded them of last year’s damaging government shutdown.
奥巴马提醒议员们不要忘记去年带来消极影响的政府停摆事件，他说，“在座的每一个人，在今年做出每一个决定时，都要面对一个问题：我们是推动，还是阻碍这一进程。”
Executive orders like the one he will employ to raise the minimum wage paid by federal contractors may be the only route available to the president given deep hostility from the Republican majority in the House and a Congress increasingly focused on the 2014 elections rather than Barack Obama’s legacy.
奥巴马将下达行政命令，提高联邦承包商支付的最低工资。鉴于众议院共和党多数派强烈反对，以及国会越来越多地将精力放在2014年选举而不是贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的传世功绩上，此类行政命令或许是奥巴马总统的唯一选择。
But with some notable exceptions, only so much can be delivered through the president’s pen if he is not using it to sign legislation. He cannot raise the minimum wage for most workers, overhaul the Social Security system, grant legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants, reorder spending and taxes, or even make necessary fixes to the health care law.
不过也有明显的例外，如果不通过签署法律的途径，总统的这支笔也只能起到这么点作用。他无法提高大多数工人的工资，整改社会保障体系，承认数百万非法移民的合法地位，重新安排支出和税收，甚至都无法对医改法进行必要地修改。
Illustrating how challenging it is to use executive orders in an expansive way, the White House refused to say how many workers might gain under the new wage policy, and Republicans, while criticizing the move, played down its impact.
白宫已经阐明大肆使用行政命令难度非常大，但拒绝透露有多少工人可能会通过新的工资政策获益，而共和党人一边批评此举，一边淡化它的作用。
At the same time, anyone who succeeds him can use the same stroke of a pen to undo Mr. Obama’s actions just as Mr. Obama did to some Bush administration policies one day after his inauguration in 2009.
与此同时，无论是谁接任奥巴马的职位，都可以大笔一挥，撤销奥巴马的举措，就像奥巴马在2009年就职后第二天就取消布什政府的政策一样。
“There is nothing like legislation,” said Rahm Emanuel, the Chicago mayor, the president’s first chief of staff and a former House member who advocates the strong use of executive power. “But given the challenges that are mounting, the country cannot afford Congress to go M.I.A.”
“什么也比不上立法工作，”芝加哥市市长、奥巴马的首位幕僚长拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)说。“但考虑到挑战不断增加，美国无法承受国会不作为的后果。”这名前白宫成员提倡大力使用行政权力。
When it comes to Congress, the formula for success in dealing with a balky opposition continues to elude the White House except perhaps for a new opening with Republicans on immigration.
在国会面前，白宫依然找不到一个应付顽固反对的好办法，可能只有在移民问题上和共和党人重新开始。
Despite the modest budget and spending deal completed this month, Congress seems more of a legislative graveyard than ever. Lawmakers cannot find a way to extend emergency jobless benefits even when leaders of both parties acknowledge the aid should and could be approved.
尽管这个月达成了一个有限的预算及支出协议，但现在的国会前所未有地像一座立法坟墓。甚至当两党领袖表示援助措施应该并能够获得通过的时候，议员们都无法找到延长紧急失业救济金期限的方法。
If Congress cannot move on economic and social policy that Democrats and Republicans essentially embrace and that would be a political victory for both parties, how can real disagreement be bridged?
如果国会不能推进从根本上为两党所支持的、实现政治共赢的经济及社会政策，如何能克服真正的分歧呢？
Finding consensus only gets harder from here. The midterms are already taking over the conversation on Capitol Hill, intensifying scrutiny on every vote and making lawmakers even more reluctant to take chances. The growing sense that Republicans have a chance to win the Senate in November raises the prospect that the president’s final two years could be consumed by veto fights with opposition majorities in the House and Senate.
从现在开始，双方达成一致意见只会变得越来越难。中期选举已经成为国会山最主要的讨论话题，每次投票都受到密切的关注，议员们也更加不愿意冒险。随着人们越来越认为共和党有机会在11月赢得参议院多数席位，奥巴马总统任期最后两年会在和两院多数党反对派的否决权斗争中消耗掉的可能性进一步增大。
Republicans say they see the president’s focus on executive action as abandoning efforts to work with them. The approach will feed the conservative narrative that Mr. Obama is engaged in a power grab and is ignoring constitutional limits. They point for validation to the so-far-successful legal challenge to his use of recess appointments in a case now before the Supreme Court.
共和党人表示，在他们看来，总统将重点放在颁布行政命令上，就是在放弃和共和党合作的努力。这种做法将让保守派的说法显得更加有力，他们称奥巴马是在争夺权力，并且无视宪法的限制。共和党人会拿出奥巴马的“休会任命”被上诉到最高法院一事作为例证，来证明这种说法并非空穴来风，目前看来共和党的法律挑战是成功的。
“We’re going to watch very closely because there’s a Constitution that we all take an oath to, including him, and following that Constitution is the basis for our republic and we shouldn’t put that in jeopardy,” Speaker John A. Boehner said hours before the president’s address on Tuesday.
在总统周二发表演讲的数小时前，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)发言道，“我们会密切关注，因为我们有一个所有人都曾向其宣誓的宪法，遵守宪法是我们的共和根基，我们不能把它置于危险境地。”
Mr. Boehner said House Republicans would use a party retreat that starts Wednesday to examine their options when it comes to the president’s use of executive authority. They could conceivably file suit or employ legislative tools to seek disapproval of disputed executive orders, stopping short of the call of some members for impeachment. Even if they cannot get the disapprovals through Congress, they can use the fight to highlight the president’s actions to motivate Republican voters in November.
博纳说，众议院的共和党人将利用周三开始的休养式会议来认真考虑可以用哪些方法限制总统的行政权。他们可能会采取一些意料之中的做法，比如提起法律诉讼或使用立法手段寻求否定引发争议的行政命令，但没有考虑一些共和党人提出的弹劾总统的建议。即使这些否决建议无法在国会获得通过，他们仍可以利用斗争来突显总统的行为，到了11月可以以此来调动共和党选民的积极性。
Mr. Obama’s allies say he cannot stand idle while Republicans, driven by political calculations, block worthwhile legislation that has widespread popular support. They say executive orders can create momentum and note that some — like the Emancipation Proclamation, the order by President Harry S. Truman to desegregate the military and President Bill Clinton’s expansion of public lands through the declaration of national monuments — have been transformative.
奥巴马的盟友称，共和党人受到政治考量的驱使，阻挠那些有价值并获得广泛支持的立法，在这种情况下，奥巴马不能袖手旁观。他们表示，行政命令能创造出发展动力，并指出其中一些还产生了变革性影响，比如《解放黑人奴隶宣言》(Emancipation Proclamation)、哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)总统颁布的废止军队内种族隔离的行政命令，以及比尔·克林顿总统(Bill Clinton)通过划定国家纪念区来扩大公有土地的命令。
And they say Congressional Republicans have driven Mr. Obama into finding a way to get something done.
而且他们说是国会共和党人迫使奥巴马找到其他方法来解决问题。
“Should he have to wait because of the intransigence, the obstacles that are placed by Republicans or because the Republicans would prefer to shut down our government?” asked Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California.
“他难道应该坐以待毙吗？就因为双方无法妥协，或是共和党人设置阻碍？又或是因为共和党人想要让政府停摆？”加利福尼亚州民主党众议院议员哈维尔·贝塞拉(Xavier Becerra)说。
Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York, conceded that governance by executive order is not ideal but that it was justifiable given the depth of Republican opposition.
纽约州民主党众议员约瑟夫·克劳利(Joseph Crowley)承认，通过行政命令治理国家并不理想，但考虑到共和党人反对的强烈程度，这么做也合乎情理。
“This is not a panacea, this is not the fix we are looking for,” he said of the president’s action on wages. “But he is leading by example, sending a message to Congress that we need to raise the minimum wage for all Americans.”
“这不是灵丹妙药，这不是我们寻求的解决方法，”提到总统为提高最低工资而采取的行动时，克劳利说。“但他是在作出示范，向国会发出讯息，我们必须为所有美国人提高最低工资。”
But for Mr. Obama, who began his presidency with a gauzy vision of a post-partisan brand of politics that proved to be unrealistic, leading through executive order is not what he had in mind.
然而，对在总统任期之初就描绘了一幅后政党政治文化图景——后来这种想法被证明不切实际——的奥巴马来说，通过颁发行政命令进行领导可不是他的最初设想。