A 17-year-old transgender youth, Leelah Alcorn, stunned her friends and a vast Internet audience in December when she threw herself in front of a tractor-trailer after writing in an online suicide note that religious therapists had tried to convert her back to being a boy.
去年12月，17岁的跨性别青年莉拉·奥尔康(Leelah Alcorn)在网上留下自杀遗书之后，冲向了一辆疾驰的大卡车前，此举令她的朋友和许多网友陷入震惊。她在遗书中提到，一些宗教治疗师试图把她变回男孩。
In response, President Obama this week will call for an end to such psychiatric therapies aimed at “repairing” gay, lesbian and transgender youth, White House officials said. His decision on the sensitive issue is the latest example of his continuing embrace of gay rights.
白宫官员称，作为对这件事的回应，奥巴马总统本周将呼吁结束此类旨在“矫正”男同性恋、女同性恋和跨性别青年的治疗。在这一敏感问题上的此项决定，再次显示了他对同性恋权利的持续关注。
In a statement to be posted on Wednesday evening alongside a WhiteHouse.gov petition begun in honor of Ms. Alcorn, Mr. Obama will condemn the psychiatric practice, sometimes called “conversion” or “reparative” therapy, which is supported by some socially conservative organizations and religious doctors. The petition has received more than 120,000 signatures in three months.
该声明将于周三晚间发布在一个为纪念奥尔康而发起的WhiteHouse.gov请愿活动页面上，声明中奥巴马将谴责采取精神病治疗的做法。这种也被称为“改变”或“修复”的疗法受到了一些社会保守组织和有信仰的医生的支持。请愿活动在三个月的时间里已经获得了超过12万个签名。
“We share your concern about its potentially devastating effects on the lives of transgender as well as gay, lesbian, bisexual and queer youth,” the statement, written by Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, says, according to a copy obtained by The New York Times. “As part of our dedication to protecting America’s youth, this administration supports efforts to ban the use of conversion therapy for minors.”
“我们和你们一样担心，这件事对跨性别，以及男同性恋者、女同性恋者、双性恋者和酷儿青年群体的生活会带来怎样的破坏性影响，”根据《纽约时报》获得的一份副本，这份由奥巴马的高级顾问瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)撰写的声明中写道。“本届政府支持对转变治疗加以禁止，这是我们保护美国青年的努力的一部分。”
In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Jarrett said Mr. Obama was moved by the story of Ms. Alcorn’s suicide. But she said the problem went far beyond her.
在周三接受采访时，瓦莱丽说，奥尔康自杀的故事触动了奥巴马。但她表示，这个问题远远不只存在于奥尔康一个人身上。
“It was tragic, but I will tell you, unfortunately she has a lot of company,” Ms. Jarrett said. “It’s not the story of one young person. It is the story of countless young people who have been subjected to this.”
 “这是悲剧，但我要告诉你，不幸的是，她还有许多同伴，”贾勒特说。“这不是一个年轻人的故事。它是无数需要面对这种情况的年轻人的故事。”
Mr. Obama will not explicitly call for a federal law banning therapists from using such therapies on their patients, but he is open to conversations with lawmakers in both parties, White House officials said on Wednesday. Instead, he will throw his support behind the efforts to ban the practice at the state level.
白宫官员周三表示，奥巴马不会明确呼吁进行联邦立法，禁止心理医生对他们的病人使用这种疗法，但是他愿意就此与两党议员展开对话。不过，他会支持在州的层面禁止这种疗法的行动。
Mr. Obama began his political life opposed to gay marriage and accepting of limits on gay service in the military. But he now supports same-sex marriage and has sought greater equality of treatment for gays and lesbians in the government and the private work force. In his first term, he pushed the Pentagon to end the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy that had kept gay service members from serving openly.
奥巴马在政治生涯之初反对同性婚姻，同意限制同性恋在军队服役。但他现在支持同性婚姻，并且在为男女同性恋在政府部门和私营行业受到更公平的对待而努力。他在第一任期敦促五角大楼结束“不问、不说”的政策——这项政策使同性恋无法在公开身份的情况下服役。