CHILMARK, Mass. — The Obama administration has taken preliminary steps to withhold financial aid to the Egyptian government, officials said on Sunday, though it is curtailing economic assistance, not the much larger military aid on which Egypt’s generals depend.
马萨诸塞州契尔马克——官方在周日表示，奥巴马政府已经采取初步措施，暂停向埃及提供财政援助，不过政府缩减的是经济援助，而非埃及的将军们所依赖的军事援助，后者的规模要大很多。
The State Department has put a hold on financing for economic programs that directly involve the Egyptian government, administration officials said, out of a concern that the military-led government might have violated Congressional rules prohibiting aid to countries where there has been a coup.
政府官员说，国会有禁止援助发生政变国家的规定，由于担心军方领导政府的局面已经触犯这条规定，国务院(State Department)暂停为直接涉及埃及政府的经济项目提供资金。
The administration has not declared whether the Egyptian military’s ouster of President Mohamed Morsi constituted a coup. But the State Department is abiding by a complex web of restrictions governing foreign aid, an official said. Those restrictions are tighter than the rules governing the military aid, which has not been suspended.
奥巴马政府尚未明确埃及军方罢黜总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的行为是否属于政变。但是一位官员说，在政府对外援助方面，国务院需要遵守一套复杂的限制规定。军事援助受到的限制相对较少，目前尚未被叫停。
Whether to cut off the remaining military aid available to Egypt this year was one of the questions that awaited President Obama as he returned to Washington from a vacation in Martha’s Vineyard that was shadowed by the bloodshed in Egypt that has left hundreds of Islamist protesters dead.
今年是否要停止向埃及提供的剩余军事援助，是奥巴马总统结束度假回到华盛顿后要面对的问题。在埃及发生的流血事件导致数百名伊斯兰派抗议者丧生，也给奥巴马此次在玛莎葡萄园的假期蒙上阴影。
For Egypt, the value of the military aid is perhaps less important than the advanced systems it can buy with American support. Already, the United States is considering a delay in the shipment of Apache attack helicopters and repair kits for tanks. That comes on top of decisions to delay the delivery of four F-16 fighter jets and to pull out of a major joint military exercise next month with the Egyptian Army.
对埃及来说，和在美国人支持下可以买到的先进系统相比，军事援助的价值就没那么重要了。美国已经在考虑延迟阿帕奇武装直升机和坦克维修零件的交付。此外延迟交付的还有四架F-16战斗机，美国还决定退出原定下月和埃及陆军联合举行的大型军事演习。
But the administration has stopped short of suspending the aid, which has served as a foundation of the American relationship with Egypt for more than three decades and is viewed as critical to the region’s stability, not least as a pillar of the 1979 peace treaty between Egypt and Israel.
但是美国政府尚未停止军事援助，这种援助是过去三十多年来美埃关系的基石，也被认为是该地区稳定的关键因素，更是埃及和以色列之间的1979年和平条约的重要支柱。
Military aid to Egypt dwarfs civilian aid: of the $1.55 billion in total assistance the White House has requested for 2014, $1.3 billion is military and $250 million is economic. The civilian aid goes to training programs, projects run by the United States Agency for International Development, and support for nongovernmental organizations.
对埃及的军事援助令民事援助相形见绌：白宫提交的2014年援助计划总额为15.5亿美元（约合94.7亿元人民币），其中有13亿是军事援助，剩下2.5亿为经济援助。民事援助会用于美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)管理的培训项目，以及为非政府组织提供支持。
“We have stopped spending money in areas that would be prevented if it were determined to be a coup,” said an administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “We’ll put a pause on those programs, because we don’t want to flout the law.”
“这些地方一旦确定为政变就会被禁止援助，所以我们已经停止投钱了，”一位政府官员说。“我们会暂停那些项目，因为我们不想触犯法律。”由于涉及政府内部决策，这位官员要求匿名发表言论。
Israel and several Arab countries have lobbied the United States not to cut off aid, arguing that the army is still the best hope to stop Egypt from slipping into chaos and that the need for stability should outweigh, for now, concerns about democracy and human rights.
以色列和许多阿拉伯国家在游说美国不要停止援助，它们称军队依然是阻止埃及陷入混乱的最佳选择，当前最紧要的是稳定，而不是民主和人权。
But with the death toll from the week’s violence surpassing 1,000 and little prospect of an end to the standoff, officials said, the administration had begun a debate over what threshold it was willing to bear before it fundamentally rethought its relationship with the military.
然而持续一周的暴力冲突令死亡人数突破1000，官员称，几乎看不到双方的对峙有结束的希望，奥巴马政府已经开始讨论忍耐的极限在哪里，在什么情况下美国需要重新考虑和埃及军方的关系。
During his week on Martha’s Vineyard, Mr. Obama tried not to allow the Egypt crisis to intrude on his vacation routine of golf, dinner with friends, and beach and bike outings with his family. But on Thursday, the president held a conference call with members of the National Security Council to discuss options for dealing with the standoff.
在玛莎葡萄园的这一周里，奥巴马尽可能不让埃及危机打搅他的假期活动：打高尔夫、和朋友共进晚餐，以及与家人去海滩或骑车出行。但是总统在周四还是和国家安全委员会(National Security Council)成员进行了电话会议，讨论应对僵持局面的策略选择。
Back in Washington, pressure on Mr. Obama to do more about Egypt is mounting, but lawmakers remain divided on whether to cut off aid, with a handful of outspoken Republican hawks calling for it, while other Republicans and most Democrats still have qualms. Given the reluctance of many lawmakers to suspend military aid for security reasons, canceling economic aid may be an easier way for them to register their displeasure with the Egyptian government.
在华盛顿，越来越多的人在向奥巴马施压，要求采取更多措施，但议员中间对是否要停止援助还是存在分歧，一部分直言不讳的共和党鹰派人士呼吁停止，而其他共和党人和大多数民主党人依然心存疑虑。考虑到许多议员出于安全原因不愿意停止军援，取消经济援助就成了他们向埃及政府表达不悦的一种更简单易行的方式。