President Obama plans to use a speech in Berlin on Wednesday to outline plans for further reductions in the American nuclear arsenal if Russia agrees to pare back its weapons at the same time, administration officials said Tuesday.
本周二，美国政府表示，奥巴马总统计划利用周三在柏林发表的演讲，来概述美国未来的核武库削减计划，前提是俄罗斯同意同时削减其核武器。
Resuming a drive toward disarmament that he had largely shunted aside over the past two years, Mr. Obama will propose trimming the number of strategic warheads that each of the two big nuclear powers still maintains by up to a third, taking them below the 1,550 permitted in the treaty he signed with Russia in his first term, a senior administration official said. That would leave each country with just over 1,000 weapons.
一名高级官员说，奥巴马在重燃对裁军的积极性，过去两年里，他基本已把这个问题搁置一边。他将建议，把美俄两个核武大国各自的战略核弹头数量削减多达三分之一，至《削减和限制进攻性战略武器条约》（Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty，简称New START）许可的1550枚以下，该条约是他在第一任总统任期内和俄罗斯签订的。如此一来，每个国家将只会留下约1000枚核武器。
Mr. Obama will also declare that he will work with NATO allies to develop proposals for major cuts in tactical nuclear weapons, which are not covered by the existing treaty. Russia, which has far more tactical nuclear weapons deployed than the United States and Europe do, has firmly resisted such cuts. There are fears that its tactical weapons are in parts of Russia where they risk being seized by terrorist groups.
奥巴马还将宣布，他会和北大西洋公约组织(NATO)的盟友携手拟定新的提议，目的是大幅削减未被现行条约覆盖的战术核武器。俄罗斯已经坚决拒绝此类削减，它部署的战术核武器比美国和欧洲多得多。外界的担忧是，俄罗斯部分地区存放的战术核武器，存在落入恐怖组织手中的危险。
Mr. Obama will also announce that he will host a final nuclear security summit meeting in the United States just before he leaves office.
奥巴马还将宣布，在他离任之前，会在美国主持最后一次核安全峰会。
The president, who once talked about eventually ridding the world of nuclear weapons, faces enormous obstacles to any further reductions, both in Moscow and in Washington. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has demanded further concessions on missile defense before entertaining deeper nuclear cuts, and Republicans in the Senate have made clear they would resist any treaty that went beyond the New Start pact ratified in 2010. Mr. Obama’s aides have said that they have no appetite for another treaty battle, and that they would try to follow the precedent of the first President George Bush, who arranged reciprocal but not binding cuts with the dying Soviet Union without a treaty.
作为一位曾谈到要让世界最终摆脱核武器的总统，他在进一步削减核武方面，面临着巨大的障碍，这些障碍既来自俄罗斯，也来自美国自身。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)已要求，美方需在俄罗斯考虑更深入地削减核武之前，在导弹防御计划上做出进一步妥协。而参议院的共和党人已明确表示，他们将抵制任何超出2010年批准的New START范围之外的协定。奥巴马的助手已表示，他们无意再次发动条约之战，而会设法遵循老布什(George Bush)总统树立的范例，后者曾与解体前的苏联商定，在没有条约的情况下，以非约束性方式各自削减核武。
But the president’s return to the issue of nuclear reductions, however tentative, suggests he wants to invest at least some of his remaining time in office to making enough progress that he can point to it as an important legacy. “It’s a way of signaling what he sees his agenda for the rest of his second term being,” said an administration official, who, like others, declined to be identified in advance of the speech.
不过，虽然一切尚处于初期阶段，总统重拾削减核武议题的举措表明，他至少打算投入剩余任期内的部分时间来取得足够的进展，从而可以把这些进展称为他的重要政治遗产。一名政府官员说，“这是一种方式，表明了他如何看待自己在第二任期内的议程。”和其他人一样，这名官员拒绝在奥巴马演讲之前就此事具名发表评论。
Supporters of further disarmament said they hoped Mr. Obama would refocus attention on the goal after rarely mentioning it in recent years, while he was consumed by other issues. “The most important thing he could do is lay out the broad agenda for the next three and a half years,” said John Isaacs, executive director of the Council for a Livable World, an advocacy group.
进一步裁军的支持者表示，他们希望奥巴马能把注意力重新聚焦到削减核武的目标上，近些年，他忙于处理其他议题，甚少提及这一目标。倡议团体宜居世界发展协会(Council for a Livable World)执行董事约翰·艾萨克斯(John Isaacs)说，“他能做的最重要的事情，就是为今后三年半拟定一个广泛的议程。”
In addition to further reductions, Mr. Isaacs said, there are several policy changes Mr. Obama could take that would move the country further away from cold war-style national security. He said the president could take nuclear weapons off high alert and change nuclear doctrine to say that the only purpose of such weapons would be as a deterrent.
艾萨克斯表示，除进一步削减核武器外，奥巴马还可以做出几项政策上的改变，这些变化可能会让美国进一步远离冷战式的国家安全。他说，总统可以取消核武器的高级警戒状态，改变核方针，表明这种武器只会被作为一种威慑力量。
But administration officials cautioned against expecting the Berlin speech to be a sequel to Mr. Obama’s 2009 address in Prague laying out his vision for a nuclear-free world. Instead, nuclear reductions will be just one element of a larger, thematic address, officials said, and the president will not get into much detail about specific policy changes.
但政府官员告诫称，不要指望柏林的演讲会效仿奥巴马2009年在布拉格发表的讲话。在那次讲话中，奥巴马阐明了他对无核世界的愿景。官员称，此次将是一个内容更广泛的主题演讲，削减核武器只是其中的元素之一，而且，总统不会太多谈到涉及政策变化的具体细节。
That is a significant lowering of the bar: For a while, Mr. Obama considered setting out much more ambitious goals in a speech administration officials hoped he would give this month, on the 50th anniversary of a famous speech John F. Kennedy gave at American University. That speech, less than a year after the Cuban missile crisis, created the push for what became the nuclear test ban treaty, signed two months later.
这是对标准的大幅降低：在一段时间里，奥巴马曾考虑在一次讲话中制定一些宏大得多的目标，政府官员本来希望他能在本月约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)在美国大学(American University)发表著名演讲的50周年纪念日上发表这次讲话。肯尼迪的那次演讲距离古巴导弹危机结束不到一年时间，推动了禁止核试验条约的形成，让该条约在两个月后得到签署。
Early in Mr. Obama’s first term, aides described an ambitious agenda that included ratifying the long-stalled Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and negotiating a new treaty that would ban the production of new fissile material, the makings of nuclear fuel. In the Berlin speech, Mr. Obama will repeat his call for the test ban treaty but will set no deadline for submitting it to the Senate, because of administration fears that it would go down to a second defeat.
在奥巴马第一届任期早期，他的助手描述了一个宏大的议程，包括通过搁置已久的《全面禁止核试验条约》(Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty)，以及通过谈判达成一项新条约，禁止生产新的裂变材料，即核燃料的原料。在柏林发表演讲时，奥巴马将再次就禁止核试验条约展开呼吁，但不会设定向参议院提交条约的最后期限，因为政府担心它会再次受阻。
Pakistan has blocked the opening of negotiations on the fissile material ban, and administration officials say they will put pressure on the new Pakistani government to move on that issue. He will also have to press Pakistan to cease its deployment of a new generation of tactical weapons that officials fear could easily be stolen by terrorists.
巴基斯坦已拒绝开始就裂变材料生产禁令进行谈判，美国政府官员称，他们会向巴基斯坦新一届政府施压，要求他们在这个问题上采取行动。同时，奥巴马必须迫使巴基斯坦停止部署新一代战术武器，因为官员担心那些武器很容易就会被恐怖分子盗走。
Mr. Obama’s early agenda has been frustrated by many setbacks. North Korea has conducted two nuclear tests during his tenure. Iran has installed 17,000 centrifuges and now has enough low- and medium-enriched fuel to produce a half dozen weapons, with further enrichment. Pakistan has the world’s fastest growing arsenal. Once Republicans took control of the Senate, Mr. Obama never submitted the test ban treaty for ratification or negotiated further cuts with Russia.
诸多失败阻碍了奥巴马早期的议程。在他任内，朝鲜已经进行了两次核试验。伊朗也已安装了1.7万台离心机，现在拥有的中低浓缩程度的燃料如果进一步浓缩，便足以制造六枚核武器。巴基斯坦核武库规模的增长速度是全世界最快的。在共和党人控制参议院之后，奥巴马从未将禁止核试验条约提交参议院进行批准，也从未同俄罗斯举行谈判，要求对方进一步削减核武器。
Perhaps Mr. Obama’s biggest success has been his effort to lock down vulnerable nuclear materials around the world, a task nearly all countries have agreed to, even if he did not accomplish the entire job in the four years he initially envisioned.
或许，奥巴马最大的成功是他在保护全世界易流失核材料的安全方面的努力，尽管他未能在起初预想的四年里完成全部任务，但几乎所有国家都已就此达成一致。