Could Bibi Netanyahu and Barack Obama share the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize?
比比·内塔尼亚胡(Bibi Netanyahu)和贝拉克·奥巴马可能分享2014年的诺贝尔和平奖吗？
The thought sounds ludicrous on its face, I know. The two do not like each other and have radically different worldviews. But as much as they keep trying to get away from each other, the cunning of history keeps throwing them back together, intertwining their fates. That will be particularly true in the next six months when the U.S.-led negotiations to defuse Iran’s nuclear bomb-making capabilities and the U.S.-led negotiations to reach a final peace between Israelis and Palestinians both come to a head at the same time. If these two leaders were to approach these two negotiations with a reasonably shared vision (and push each other), they could play a huge role in remaking the Middle East for the better, and — with John Kerry — deserve the Nobel Prize, an Emmy, an Oscar and the Pritzker Architecture Prize.
这种想法乍看之下荒诞不经，我明白。毕竟两人都不喜欢对方，世界观也迥异。不过，虽说他们一直尽量远离对方，爱捉弄人的历史总是迫使他们碰撞在一起，让彼此的命运紧密交缠。未来六个月里，尤为如此。届时，美国牵头的两大谈判将同时来到关键阶段：一是为了消除伊朗制造核弹的能力，二是为了以色列与巴勒斯坦之间达成最终和平协议。如果这两名领导人能用合理的共同愿景来对待这两大谈判（并且奋力督促对方），他们就能在重塑一个更美好的中东方面起到重大作用，也就应当——与约翰·克里(John Kerry)一起———赢得诺贝尔奖、艾美奖、奥斯卡奖和普利兹克建筑奖(Pritzker Architecture Prize)。
Let’s start with the Iran talks. After his initial and, I believe, wrongheaded outburst against the U.S.-led deal to freeze and modestly rollback Iran’s nuclear program in return for some limited sanctions relief, Netanyahu has quieted down a bit and has set up a team to work with the U.S. on the precise terms for a final deal with Iran. I hope that Bibi doesn’t get too quiet, though. While I think the interim deal is a sound basis for negotiating a true end to Iran’s nuclear bomb-making capabilities, the chances of getting that true end are improved if Bibi is occasionally Bibi and serves as our loaded pistol on the negotiating table.
我们首先来看伊朗谈判。对美国牵头的协议，即伊朗适当削减核计划以交换部分有限的制裁放松，内塔尼亚胡起初勃然大怒。在我眼里，他这次的爆发颇为不明智。那之后，他冷静了一些，并且设立了一个小组，以便同美国合作起草对伊最终协议里的精准措辞。虽说如此，我希望比比不要过于冷静。尽管我认为，临时协议为通过协商途径真正终结伊朗制造核弹的能力提供了坚实的基础，但是，倘若比比能时不时爆发一下，并成为谈判桌上我方的弦上之箭，达到这种真正终结的可能性将会提高。
When negotiating in a merciless, hard-bitten region like the Middle East, it is vital to never let the other side think they can “outcrazy” you. The Jews and the Kurds are among the few minorities that have managed to carve out autonomous spaces in the Arab-Muslim world because, at the end of the day, they would never let any of their foes outcrazy them; they did whatever they had to in order to survive, and sometimes it was really ugly, but they survived to tell the tale. Anyone who has seen the handy work of Iran and Hezbollah firsthand — the U.S. Embassy and Marine bombings in Beirut, the assassination of Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in Lebanon, the bombing at Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, and the bombing of the Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires   — knows that the Iranians will go all the way. Never negotiate with Iran without some leverage and some crazy on your side. Iran’s leaders are tough and cruel. They did not rise to the top through the Iowa caucuses.
在中东地区这种残酷无情、饱经战乱的地方谈判的时候，至关重要的一点是：永远不要让对方认为，可以通过比你“更疯狂而压倒”你。犹太人和库尔德人之所以能够成为少有的在阿拉伯–穆斯林世界中开辟出自治区域的少数民族，说到底是因为他们从未允许敌人比自己更疯狂；为了存活，他们不惜一切代价，虽说有时极其丑恶，但他们活了下来。亲眼目睹过伊朗和真主党(Hezbollah)娴熟手法——贝鲁特的美国大使馆及海军陆战队营地爆炸案、黎巴嫩的前总理拉菲克·哈里里(Rafik Hariri)的刺杀事件、沙特阿拉伯的霍巴塔爆炸案，以及布宜诺斯艾利斯的犹太社区中心(Jewish Community Center)爆炸案——的任何人，都知道伊朗会一条路走到底。除非握有筹码，而且己方具备疯狂元素，否则就绝不要与伊朗谈判。伊朗领导人强硬而残酷。他们可不是通过艾奥瓦州的党团会议一步步选到最高层的。
While you need some Obama “cool” to finalize a deal with Iran, to see the potential for something new and to seize it, you also need some Bibi crazy — some of his Dr. Strangelove stuff and the occasional missile test. The dark core of this Iranian regime has not gone away. It’s just out of sight, and it does need to believe that all options really are on the table for negotiations to succeed. So let Bibi be Bibi (up to the point where a good deal becomes possible) and Barack be Barack and we have the best chance of getting a decent outcome. Had Bibi not been Bibi, we never would have gotten Iran to the negotiating table, but without Barack being Barack, we’ll never get a deal.
尽管与伊朗达成协议需要奥巴马式的“冷静”，以发现新转机的可能性并加以利用，但是，我们还需要比比式的疯狂——他“奇爱博士”(Dr. Strangelove)式的特质，以及时不时的导弹试射。伊朗政权的黑暗内核没有消失，它只不过没有闯入视线而已。我们也不用让这个内核认为，谈判中所有选项都摆上了桌面，才能取得成功。所以，就让比比保持本色（直到有望达成一项令人满意的协议），让贝拉克做回自己吧，这样的话，取得像样成果的胜算才最大。如果比比不再是比比，我们永远无法让伊朗回到谈判桌，如果贝拉克不是贝拉克，我们永远也无法达成协议。
Just the opposite is true on the Israeli-Palestinian front. Had Kerry not doggedly pushed Bibi and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to the negotiating table, Bibi would not have gone there on his own. As Stanley Fischer, the widely respected former Bank of Israel governor, told a New York University forum on Tuesday: “The approach that we have to be strong, because if we’re not strong we will be defeated, is absolutely correct but it is not the only the part of national strategy. The other part is the need to look for peace, and that part is not happening to the extent that it should,” the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported.
在巴以问题上则恰恰相反。如果不是克里执着地让比比和巴勒斯坦主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)回归谈判，比比是绝对不会主动这么做的。据以色列的《国土报》(Haaretz)报道，正如德高望重的以色列银行前行长斯坦利·费希尔(Stanley Fischer)周二在纽约大学(New York University)的一个论坛上所说：“我们必须强大，否则就会被别人打败，这个态度绝对是正确的，但这不是国家战略的全部。国家战略的另一个组成部分，是寻求和平的需要，但这方面我们还做得不够。”
I believe Europeans, in particular, would be more sympathetic to a harder-line Israeli position on Iran if they saw Israel making progress with the Palestinians, and if some of them did not suspect that Bibi wants to defuse the Iranian threat to make the world safe for a permanent Israeli occupation of the West Bank. Moreover, if Israel made progress with the Palestinians, it could translate the coincidence of interests it now has with Saudi Arabia and the Gulf Arabs — which is based purely on their having a common enemy, Iran — into a real reconciliation, with trade and open relations.
我相信，如果欧洲国家看到以色列和巴勒斯坦之间取得了进展，如果一些欧洲国家不去怀疑比比之所以想要缓和伊朗的威胁，是为了确保以色列可以安全地永久占领约旦河西岸，欧洲人一定会更赞同以色列对伊朗采取更强硬立场。除此之外，如果以色列与巴勒斯坦之间取得进展，以色列与沙特以及波斯湾阿拉伯国家当下的共同利益——完全基于他们拥有共同的敌人，即伊朗——就会转化成真正的和解，他们将开展贸易和建立关系。
On the Iran front, Netanyahu’s job is to make himself as annoying as possible to Obama to ensure that sanctions are only fully removed in return for a verifiable end to Iran’s nuclear bomb-making capabilities. On the Israeli-Palestinian front, Obama’s job is to make himself as annoying as possible to Netanyahu. Each has to press the other for us to get the best deals on both fronts.
在伊朗问题上，内塔尼亚胡的任务是尽可能地惹恼奥巴马，确保只有伊朗终结核弹制造能力并得到验证，才能换取完全取消制裁。在巴以问题上，奥巴马的任务是尽可能地惹恼内塔尼亚胡。他们都必须向对方施压，才能在两个问题上都达成最理想的协议。
This is a rare plastic moment in the Middle East where a lot of things are in flux. I have no illusions that all the problems can be tied up with a nice bow. But with a little imagination and the right mix of toughness and openness on Iran and the Israeli-Palestinian issue, the Israeli prime minister and American president could turn their bitter-lemon relationship into lemonade.
在中东，目前是难得一见的可塑性极强的一个时刻，许多事情正在变化之中。我并不是幻想所有问题最后都能完美解决。但是，只要我们有一点想象力，并在伊朗问题和巴以问题上恰到好处地交替表现出强硬和开放的态度，内塔尼亚胡和奥巴马的关系就可能从苦涩的柠檬变成爽口的柠檬汁。