In his most extensive remarks about feminism, President Obama wrote an essay for Glamour magazine in which he reflected on American women’s long fight for equality and called on men to fight sexism and create equal relationships.
奥巴马总统为《魅力》杂志(Glamour)撰文，就女性主义发表了他最为详尽的看法。他对美国女性争取平等的漫长道路进行了反思，并呼吁男性反对性别歧视、创建平等的两性关系。
In the 1,500-word essay, which was published online Thursday and will appear in the September print magazine, the president argued that “when everybody is equal, we are all more free.” He praised the progress of American women over the past century while pledging to work on securing equal pay and reproductive rights. The president also warned against “dated assumptions about gender roles.”
这篇1500词的文章于周四在网上发布，将出现在《魅力》9月刊上。奥巴马在文中表示，“当人人平等的时候，我们所有人都会更加自由。”他赞扬了美国女性在过去一个世纪里取得的成就，同时承诺努力确保同工同酬和生育权。总统还提醒人们不要受制于“关于性别角色的陈腐假设”。
The president said that it was important to his daughters that he be a feminist, “because now that’s what they expect of all men.”
总统表示，他是一个女性主义者，这对他女儿来说非常重要，“因为现如今她们希望所有男性都是女性主义者。”
“We need to keep changing the attitude that raises our girls to be demure and our boys to be assertive, that criticizes our daughters for speaking out and our sons for shedding a tear,” he wrote. “We need to keep changing the attitude that punishes women for their sexuality and rewards men for theirs.
“我们需要不断改变态度，不再认为应当把女孩培养得端庄矜持、把男孩培养得坚定自信，不再批评女儿说出自己的观点、批评儿子流泪，”他写到。“我们需要不断改变态度，不再因为女人的性别而惩罚她们、因为男人的性别而奖赏他们。”
“We need to keep changing the attitude that permits the routine harassment of women, whether they’re walking down the street or daring to go online. We need to keep changing the attitude that teaches men to feel threatened by the presence and success of women.”
“我们需要不断改变态度，不再容忍对于走在街上或胆敢上网的女性日复一日的骚扰。我们需要不断改变态度，不再让男性因为有女性在场或者取得成功而觉得受到威胁。”
Brenda Weber, the professor and the chairwoman of the gender studies department at Indiana University, said she was “delighted” by the essay, which she said showed a nuanced sense of women’s issues. It is unusual for a man to write such an essay, let alone a president, she said.
印第安纳大学(Indiana University)教授、性别研究系主任布伦达·韦伯(Brenda Weber)说，这篇文章展现了女性议题的细致微妙，让她感到“欣喜”。她说能写出这样一篇文章的男性并不多见，更别说是总统了。
To claim the identity of feminism and discuss why it is personally important to him and his daughters is a meaningful gesture coming from someone with the cultural authority of the president, she said.
韦伯说，表明对女性主义的认同，并讨论为什么这对他和他女儿十分重要，这番表态由具有文化影响力的总统作出，可谓意义深远。
“Those are all pretty radical statements in terms of a politician at that level of influence,” she said.
“对他那个层面的政治人物而言，这些都是相当激进的观点，”她说。
It is not the first time that the president has declared himself a feminist. In June, while speaking at a White House summit meeting on women, he declared: “This is what a feminist looks like.”
这并非总统首次自称女性主义者。今年7月，他在白宫的一次女性峰会上宣布：“这就是一个女性主义者的样子。”
Cindi Leive, the editor of Glamour, said on “CBS This Morning” that she thought the essay went “beyond the kind of boilerplate ‘I believe in strong women’ that at this point anybody can mouth pretty effectively.”
《魅力》杂志的编辑辛迪·丽芙(Cindy Leive)在《CBS早间新闻》(CBS This Morning)中说，她认为这篇文章“超越了‘我相信女强人’之类此刻每个人都能脱口而出的标准说辞”。
“It did strike me as this very modern moment, something that we wouldn’t have heard probably from any other president, but honestly we would not have heard before this year,” she said. “I do think the embrace of the term feminism by men as well as women has really been on the rise.”
“它的确打动了我，因为今时今日，我们不太可能听到其他总统说出这样的话，但坦白讲，在今年以前，我们也不会听他说出这样的话，”她说。“我认为，不论男人还是女人，对女性主义这个词的接受程度真的是在提高。”