THE HAGUE — President Obama vowed on Tuesday that the United States would use its military to come to the defense of any NATO country that is threatened, sending a warning to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, about the consequences of further aggression along the border with Eastern Europe.
海牙——奥巴马总统周二誓称，任何北约(NATO)盟国受到威胁，美国都会出兵保护，此言是在警告俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，对东欧边界线发动进一步侵略会带来什么后果。
“We will act in their defense against any threats,” Mr. Obama said at a news conference in The Hague. “That’s what NATO is all about. When it comes to a potential military response, that is defined by NATO membership.”
“不论他们受到什么了威胁，我们都会以行动保护他们，”奥巴马在海牙的一次新闻发布会上说。“这就是NATO的意义所在。在是否进行军事回应的问题上，还要看相关国家是否为北约盟国。”
The president said the United States and other world powers rejected Russia’s annexation of Crimea, a region of Ukraine that voted to secede on March 16. But he acknowledged that military force would not be used to return that region to Ukraine, which is not a member of NATO.
奥巴马说，美国及其他世界大国都不赞同俄罗斯吞并克里米亚的行为。3月16日，克里米亚地区投票决定脱离乌克兰。但奥巴马表示，不会用武力让克里米亚重归乌克兰。乌克兰并非北约盟国。
“There’s no expectation that they will be dislodged by force,” Mr. Obama said of the Russian forces who are in Crimea. He said the world was limited to trying to use legal and economic pressure against Russia. “It would be dishonest to suggest that there is a simple solution to resolving what has already taken place in Crimea,” he said.
“没人期望用武力赶走他们，”奥巴马在提到克里米亚的俄罗斯军队时说。他表示，国际社会只能从法律和经济方面对俄罗斯施压。他说，“认为克里米亚既有局势有简单解决办法的观点是不诚实的。”
But Mr. Obama quickly added, “History has a funny way of moving in twists and turns, and not just in a straight line.”
不过，奥巴马迅速补充说，“历史很有趣，它的发展是迂回曲折的，并非总是一条直线。”
He also said his plan to let bulk telephone data records remain in the hands of communications companies would allow the government to effectively combat terrorism while eliminating concerns that law enforcement could abuse the database to invade people’s privacy.
他还说，他计划让通讯公司保留大量电话数据记录，此举能帮政府有效地对抗恐怖主义，同时也让人们不必担心，执法机关会滥用这些数据来侵犯人们的隐私。
A day after leading a meeting of the industrialized democratic nations known as the G-8 group until Monday, when members voted to oust Russia, Mr. Obama accused Mr. Putin of acting from a position of weakness in Russia’s aggression against Ukraine.
周一，八国集团成员国投票将俄罗斯踢出了这个由工业化民主国家组成的集团。奥巴马在前一天主持了剩余成员国的会议，如今又指责普京，称俄罗斯侵略乌克兰是因为俄罗斯地位衰落。
“The fact that Russia felt compelled to go in militarily,” Mr. Obama said, “indicates less influence, not more.”
“俄罗斯觉得自己必须采取军事行动，”奥巴马说，“这一事实表明俄罗斯的影响力有所削弱，而不是增强。”
The president said Russia’s buildup of troops on its border with Ukraine appeared to be “intimidation,” while acknowledging that “Russia has a right legally to have its troops on its own soil.”
奥巴马称俄罗斯在俄乌边界集结兵力的行动似乎是一种“恐吓”，同时也承认，“俄罗斯有在自己的领土上屯兵的合法权利。”
But Mr. Obama rejected an assertion made during the 2012 presidential campaign by Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, that Russia would be the “No. 1 geopolitical foe” for the United States in the years ahead. He said Russia was largely a threat to its neighbors, not to the United States.
不过，奥巴马驳斥了他2012年大选时的竞争对手、共和党人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的说法。罗姆尼称，俄罗斯将是美国在未来数年里的“头号地缘政治敌人”。奥巴马说，受到俄罗斯威胁的主要是它的邻国，并不是美国。