MANILA — For President Obama, a visit to Southeast Asia is a homecoming of sorts. Nowhere was that more evident than in the town-hall-style meeting he conducted on Sunday in the Malaysian capital Kuala Lumpur with young people from across the region.
马尼拉——对奥巴马总统来说，访问东南亚有点像是回家。最能体现这种气氛的，恐怕就是周日在马来西亚首都吉隆坡，与整个地区的年轻人举行的见面会了。
He noted that his half-sister, Maya Soetoro, was born in Jakarta and that her husband, Konrad Ng, is an ethnic Chinese whose parents were born in Malaysia. Mr. Obama’s mother, Stanley Ann Dunham, spent years working in the region. And of course, “I lived in Indonesia as a boy,” he said, drawing whoops from the Indonesians in the crowd of 550 at the University of Malaya.
他提到，自己同母异父的妹妹玛雅· 苏托洛(Maya Soetoro)是在雅加达出生的，而她的丈夫吴加儒(Konrad Ng)是华人，父母都生在马来西亚。奥巴马的母亲斯坦利·安·邓纳姆(Stanley Ann Dunham)在这个地区工作了很久。当然，“我小时候曾在印度尼西亚生活过。”听到这句话，马来亚大学(University of Malaya)台下的550名听众中的印尼人欢呼了起来。
“The Asia Pacific,” Mr. Obama said, roaming the stage, “that’s all part of who I am. It helped shape how I see the world. And it’s also helped to shape my approach as president.”
奥巴马在台上一边缓缓走动一边讲道，“亚太地区，是我个人身份的一部分，它帮助塑造了我看世界的视角，也帮助塑造了我作为总统执政的方式。”
Much of the president’s message was familiar to anyone who has watched these types of town-hall-style meetings, whether in Africa or Iowa: He described his misspent high-school years and how he got serious about social policy as a young man and moved to Chicago. And Mr. Obama, who is 52, said one of his great regrets was not spending more time with his mother, who became ill with cancer when she was six months older than he is now.
如果见到过这种“市政厅会议”式的见面会，无论是在非洲举行的还是在艾奥瓦州举行的，就会发觉奥巴马传达的信息颇为熟悉。他讲述了自己中学时期荒废的日子，自己青年时如何开始认真思考社会政策并移居芝加哥。现年52岁的奥巴马说，他最大的遗憾之一，是没能抽出更多时间陪伴母亲。她患上癌症时，比奥巴马现在的年龄大六个月。
But the president came to life when a young Burmese man asked him how his country and its neighbors should deal with the rise of ethnic and religious tensions as their societies open up. Mr. Obama, who has restored diplomatic ties with Myanmar, called these tensions “the biggest source of conflict and war and hardship around the world.”
一名缅甸年轻人问起，随着缅甸社会的开放，缅甸及周边国家该如何应对日益紧张的族群和宗教关系。恢复了与缅甸的外交关系的奥巴马听到这个问题，又情绪活跃起来。奥巴马说，这种紧张“在全世界都是冲突、战争和苦难的最大来源。”
The danger in Myanmar, he said, is that people will start to organize around their ethnic and religious identities, risking conflicts “that could move Myanmar in a very bad direction,” he said. He referred to the persecution of the Muslim Rohingya minority in the country.
奥巴马指出，缅甸的危险在于，人们会开始根据自己的民族和宗教身份组织起来，有可能造成“将缅甸推向极为恶劣的走向”的冲突。他提到了缅甸穆斯林少数族群罗辛亚族遭受的迫害。
Mr. Obama also alluded to the legacy of tension in Malaysia between the Muslim Malay majority and the Chinese minority. “There are times where those who are non-Muslims find themselves perhaps being disadvantaged or experiencing hostility,” he said.
奥巴马也含蓄地谈到了，在马来西亚属于多数的穆斯林族群马来族，与处在少数地位的华人之间遗存的紧张关系。他说，“有时候，非穆斯林可能会发觉自己处在不利地位，或者感受到敌意。”
While he expressed optimism about Asia’s ability to manage these forces, he was less sanguine about his father’s country, Kenya. “They should be growing, but instead they spend all their time arguing and organizing politically only around tribe and around ethnicity,” Mr. Obama said. “And when power shifts, then it’s payback.”
尽管他乐观地表示，亚洲有能力处理这些问题，但对于他父亲的国家肯尼亚，却并没有那么乐观。“他们应当发展起来，但却用所有的时间，仅仅围绕部落和族群争吵、进行政治组织，”奥巴马说。“权力易手时，就会有人遭报复。”
Awkward Side-Step in Malaysia
在马来西亚的尴尬回避
Mr. Obama’s decision not to meet with the Malaysian opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim, prompted criticism from human rights advocates. However, his national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, met with Mr. Anwar in her boss’s stead.
奥巴马决定不与马来西亚反对派领袖安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)会面，这引起了人权倡导人士的批评。不过，他的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)代表奥巴马会见了安瓦尔。
Mr. Anwar, a former deputy prime minister whose 2012 acquittal on sodomy charges was thrown out by a court last month, has been fighting the charges since his conviction in 1999, in what analysts is a politically-motivated effort to keep him out of power.
安瓦尔曾任马来西亚副总理，自从1999年被判犯有鸡奸罪以来，就一直在法庭进行抗争。他在2012年得以洗脱罪名，但上个月，无罪的判决又被法庭推翻了。分析人士认为，他受到的指控有政治动机，目的是让他无法掌权。
“Ambassador Rice emphasized to Mr. Anwar that the United States has followed his case closely, and that the decision to prosecute him and the trial have raised a number of concerns regarding the rule of law and the independence of the courts,” the National Security Council said in a statement.
国家安全委员会在一份声明中写道，“赖斯大使对安瓦尔强调，美国在密切关注他的案件，而且对他提起公诉的决定，以及案件的审理，让我们对马来西亚法治和司法体系的独立性产生了担忧。”
Mr. Anwar, who expressed disappointment at not getting time with Mr. Obama, said he appreciated “the availability of Ambassador Rice for these candid and frank discussions.”
对于未能与奥巴马会面，安瓦尔表示了遗憾。他说，感谢“赖斯大使有时间进行直率、坦诚的交流。”
The meeting will raise Ms. Rice’s profile in a part of the world where she is not well known. That could be helpful to Mr. Obama, whose second-term foreign policy team has been criticized for its lack of focus on Asia compared with the attention exhibited by former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner in the president’s first term.
这次会面，可能会帮助赖斯在这个并不熟知自己的地区提高声望。这可能也对奥巴马有帮助，奥巴马第二届任期的外交政策团队，与第一届任期时前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)和前财政部长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)相比，对亚洲缺乏关注，并因此受到了批评。
Quiet on the Northern Front
北线无战事
North Korea was the dog that did not bark during Mr. Obama’s trip, which included South Korea. For weeks, South Koreans speculated nervously that Kim Jong-un, the North’s erratic leader, would fire a missile or carry out a nuclear test while the president was across the border.
奥巴马的访问中包括韩国，在整个行程中，朝鲜一直是那只不叫的狗。几周来，韩国一直在紧张地猜测，反复无常的朝鲜领导人金正恩会不会在奥巴马访韩期间发射导弹，或进行核试验。
In the end, Mr. Kim did neither – though on Tuesday the North Korean military fired dozens of artillery shells near a disputed western sea border with South Korea. And last Friday, as Mr. Obama arrived in Seoul, North Korea announced that it had detained a 24-year-old American, Matthew Todd Miller, this month for what it said was “rash behavior” at the airport in Pyongyang.
到头来，这两件事金正恩都没有做。不过朝鲜军方本周二向半岛以西与韩国存在争议的水域发射了数十枚炮弹。而且在上周五，奥巴马抵达首尔之时，朝鲜宣布本月扣押了一名24岁的美国人，马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)，原因是据称他在平壤的机场“行为鲁莽”。
The State Department said it was working on Mr. Miller’s case with the Swedish embassy in Pyongyang, which often represents interests of American citizens in the country, since the United States has no diplomatic relations with the North.
美国国务院表示，正在与瑞典驻平壤大使馆共同处理米勒的案件。由于美国与朝鲜没有外交关系，瑞典大使馆经常在朝鲜代表美国公民的利益。
But the White House, keen to keep the focus of Mr. Obama’s visit on expressing sympathy to South Korea in the aftermath of the deadly ferry accident, was mum about Mr. Miller.
然而，白宫希望将奥巴马访问的重点放在对刚刚发生沉船事故的韩国表达同情上，因而对米勒案只字未提。
Pit Stop in Manila
在马尼拉喘口气
After the formality of Tokyo, the tensions of Seoul, and the awkwardness of a new relationship in Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Obama’s last stop in Manila ended with a levity typical of the Philippines.
在东京的严肃正式和首尔的紧张之后，奥巴马在吉隆坡又经历了新关系的尴尬。但他在亚洲之行的最后一站马尼拉，却感受到了菲律宾典型的轻松处事态度。
At the arrival ceremony at Malacanang Palace on Monday, Mr. Obama was honored with 21-gun salute and a peppy rendition of the theme song to “Beverly Hills Cop,” the 1984 Eddie Murphy movie, played on xylophones and other instruments by a local band.
周一在马拉干鄢宫(Malacanang Palace)举行的欢迎仪式上，向奥巴马致意的有21响礼炮，还有1984年埃迪·墨菲(Eddie Murphy)出演的电影《比佛利山警探》(Beverly Hills Cop)的主题曲。当地乐队以木琴和其他乐器，欢快地弹奏了这首曲子。
The president got the serious work out of the way quickly, announcing an agreement with President Benigno S. Aquino III to give American troops, warships, and planes expanded access to bases in the country.
奥巴马总统很快就干完正事，与菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)宣布了一项协议，扩大了美国军队、舰船、飞机使用该国军事基地的权限。
That left Tuesday morning open for a visit to a Philippine-American joint venture that is building an electric mini-bus designed to replace the Jeepneys, the brightly colored, garishly decorated vehicles that clog the streets of Philippine cities.
于是周二早上就有了时间去参观一家菲律宾–美国合资企业。那家企业制造电动小巴士，其设计目的是取代“吉普巴士”(Jeepney)，后者有着明艳的色彩和花哨的装饰，挤满了菲律宾各城市的大街小巷。
Mr. Obama first inspected an old-fashioned red Jeepney with shiny chrome fenders before climbing into the new vehicle, painted in elegant white and blue. His reaction was not immediately clear, according to a White House pool report, because his words were lost in the engine noise of his motorcade. He was laughing, though.
奥巴马先是查看了一辆镀铬挡泥板闪闪发亮的老式红色“吉普巴士”，之后又登上了一辆涂着优雅的蓝色和白色的新车。白宫记者团的报道中说，并不清楚他第一时间做出了怎样的评论，因为他的车队引擎声音很大，盖住了说话的声音。不过他的确在大笑。