WASHINGTON — Just days after nine black parishioners were killed in a South Carolina church, President Obama said the legacy of slavery still “casts a long shadow” on American life, and he said that choosing not to say the word “nigger” in public does not eliminate racism from society.
华盛顿——南卡罗来纳州一座教堂的九名黑人教徒遭枪杀几天后，奥巴马总统表示，奴隶制的遗毒仍在美国人的生活中“投下长长的阴影”，他说，即使人们不在公众场合说“黑鬼”这个词，美国社会中的种族主义也依然存在。
In a wide-ranging conversation about race, including his own upbringing as a man born to a black father and a white woman, Mr. Obama insisted that there was no question that race relations have improved in his lifetime. But he also said that racism was still deeply embedded in the United States.
在一个有关种族问题的访谈中，奥巴马谈到很多事情，包括他作为一个黑人父亲、白人母亲的儿子所经历的成长。奥巴马坚称，在他度过的这几十年中，种族关系无疑得到了改善。但他也说，种族主义仍然深深植根于美国社会。
“The legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, discrimination in almost every institution of our lives, you know, that casts a long shadow, and that’s still part of our DNA that’s passed on,” the president said during an interview for Marc Maron’s “WTF” podcast that was released on Monday. “We’re not cured of it. And it’s not just a matter of it not being polite to say nigger in public. That’s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not.”
“奴隶制的遗毒、吉姆·克劳(Jim Crow)，以及在我们的所有制度中都存在的歧视，投下了长长的阴影，而且仍然在我们的DNA里，被传递给下一代。”他在接受马克·马龙(Marc Maron)的播客“WTF”访谈时说，该节目于本周一播出。“这个问题并未治愈。而且这不只是在公众场合说‘黑鬼’很不礼貌的问题。那不是种族主义是否仍然存在的衡量标准。”
He added, “Societies don’t overnight completely erase everything that happened two to 300 years prior.”
他还说，“社会不会在一夜之间完全抹去之前两、三百年发生的一切。”
Mr. Obama has been more open about the issue of race during his second term, in part because of racially charged episodes in the last several years. The killing of Trayvon Martin, a black teenager in Florida, and the protests that followed several police shootings have prompted the president to be more reflective about his own racial identity and the nation’s.
在第二个任期里，奥巴马在种族问题上更加畅所欲言，部分原因是过去几年里发生了一些带有种族歧视色彩的事件。佛罗里达州黑人少年特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)遭枪杀，以及几起警察枪击事件引起的抗议活动，促使奥巴马更多地反思他自己以及这个国家的种族身份。
In the hourlong interview, Mr. Obama talked about being a rebel during his youth and “trying on” different kinds of personas as he struggled to understand what kind of African-American man he wanted to be.
在长达一小时的访谈中，奥巴马谈到自己年少时的叛逆期，以及如何“尝试”不同类型的人格角色，拼命了解自己想成为什么样的非裔美国人。
“I’m trying on a whole bunch of outfits,” Mr. Obama said. “Here’s how I should act. Here’s what it means to be cool. Here’s what it means to be a man.”
“我逐一试穿一大堆衣服，”奥巴马说。“这一身是我应该有的样子。这一身会显得很酷。这一身意味着当个男人。”
He said that a lot of his issues when he was young “revolved around race” but that his attitude changed around the time he turned 20. That is when he began to understand how to honor both sides of his racial identity, the president said.
他说，自己年少时的很多问题都是“围绕种族问题展开的”，但在年满20岁的时候，他的态度改变了。他说在那个时候，他开始懂得如何对自己种族身份的两面给予同样的尊重。
As a presidential candidate in 2008, Mr. Obama confronted race directly when he gave a speech about the issue to confront comments by the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, his onetime pastor. In his first term, Mr. Obama mostly shied away from the issue of race, except for an early comment about a white police officer in Cambridge, Mass., who arrested a black Harvard professor.
2008年还是总统候选人的时候，奥巴马曾直接谈论过种族问题，当时他曾经的牧师杰勒麦亚·赖特(Jeremiah Wright)发表了一些言论，奥巴马针对这些言论发表了一个有关种族问题的讲话。在他的第一任期中，奥巴马大多数时候都会回避种族问题，只是在上任之初，当马萨诸塞州坎布里奇的白人警官逮捕哈佛大学黑人教授时，他发表了评论。
Mr. Obama’s interview with Mr. Maron took place on Friday, in the garage where the comedian records his popular podcast. Officials said they did not know of another time when a sitting president had recorded an interview in someone’s garage studio.
周五的访谈在马龙的车库里进行，这位笑星的热门播客就是在这里录制的。官员称，他们不知道还有哪位在任总统曾在别人的车库录音棚里录制过访谈节目。
But instead of joking around, the conversation between the two men was mostly serious. In addition to discussing race, Mr. Obama and Mr. Maron talked about the issue of gun control, and whether something should be done in the aftermath of shootings like the one at the Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, S.C., last week.
不过，他们不是在讲笑话；两人的对话多数时候是严肃的。除了讨论种族问题，奥巴马和马龙还谈论了枪支管控，以及上周南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿以马内利非裔卫理圣公会教堂(Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church)发生枪击案后，是否应该采取一些应对措施。
“It’s not enough to just feel bad,” Mr. Obama said. “There are actions that could be taken to make events like this less likely, and one of those actions we could take would be to enhance some basic, common-sense gun safety laws that, by the way, the majority of gun owners support.”
“仅仅觉得难过是不够的，”奥巴马说。“我们可以采取一些措施来降低此类事件发生的可能性；我们能够采取的措施之一，就是强化一些基本的、合乎情理的枪支安全法规——顺便说一声，大多数枪支所有者是支持这样做的。”
He added: “The question is, just, is there a way of accommodating that legitimate set of traditions with some common-sense stuff that prevents a 21-year-old who is angry about something, or confused about something, or is racist, or is, you know, deranged, from going into a gun store and suddenly is packing and can do enormous harm? And that is not something that we have ever fully come to terms with.”
他还表示：“问题是，是否有办法把那套合法的传统与一些合乎情理的东西融合起来，从而阻止一名21岁的年轻人——此人或许正为某些事情而怒不可遏，或对某事疑惑不解，抑或是一名种族主义者，或者精神错乱——走进枪支店，然后突然携有枪支，有可能造成严重伤害？这个问题我们始终没有完全解决。”
Supporters of stricter gun control measures had criticized Mr. Obama for seeming to give up on passing new gun control measures when he spoke in the immediate aftermath of the church shootings last week.
上周，奥巴马在教堂枪击案发生后立即发表了讲话。由于他似乎已经不再努力推进新枪支管控措施，支持采取更严格枪支管控的人对奥巴马表示了批评。
Mr. Obama said in the interview on Friday that despite broad support among the American public for changes in gun laws, legislation is unlikely to pass soon because of the power of the National Rifle Association.
奥巴马在周五的采访中说，尽管美国公众广泛支持改革枪支法规，但由于美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)的影响，这项法律不太可能很快得到通过。