STOCKHOLM — President Obama declared on Wednesday that the confrontation with Syria over chemical weapons was not a personal test for him but for Congress, the United States and the world as he worked to strengthen support at home and abroad for a punitive strike.
斯德哥尔摩——奥巴马总统周三宣布，与叙利亚就化学武器产生的冲突不是对他个人的考验，而是对美国国会、美国和全世界的考验。他目前正在努力寻求国内外支持，希望能对叙利亚实施惩罚性打击。
Opening a three-day trip overseas at a delicate moment for his presidency, Mr. Obama challenged lawmakers and allies to stand behind his plans for a cruise missile attack on the government of President Bashar al-Assad in retaliation for what the Obama administration has concluded was a chemical attack that killed 1,400 people in the suburbs of the Syrian capital, Damascus, last month.
此时正值奥巴马任期的敏感时刻，他开始了一次为期三天的海外访问。奥巴马计划用巡航导弹对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府发动攻击，并要求立法者和盟友对他的计划表示支持。攻击行动是对叙利亚的惩罚，因为奥巴马政府认为，叙利亚上个月在首都大马士革的市郊发动了化学武器攻击，导致1400人死亡。
“I didn’t set a red line,” Mr. Obama said during a news conference here in Stockholm. “The world set a red line.”
“红线不是我设定的，”奥巴马在斯德哥尔摩的新闻发布会上说，“红线是全世界共同设定的。”
He added, “My credibility’s not on the line. The international community’s credibility is on the line. And America and Congress’s credibility is on the line.”
他还说，“这条红线与我个人的公信力无关，它关系到国际社会的公信力，还有美国和美国国会的公信力。”
Mr. Obama laid blame for the Aug. 21 attack directly on Mr. Assad, whose government is known to have enormous stockpiles of banned chemical munitions including sarin gas, a nerve agent that American intelligence has said was deployed in a rebel-held part of the Damascus suburbs.
奥巴马直接认定阿萨德应该对8月21日的袭击负责。据了解，阿萨德政府拥有大量遭到禁止的化学弹药，其中包括神经毒气沙林。美国情报机构表示，这种毒气被用在了由反对派控制的一片大马士革郊区。
American intelligence has not disclosed any evidence that Mr. Assad personally ordered the use of sarin, but the White House has said he remains responsible as the leader of the country and its military.
美国情报机构尚未公布足以表明使用沙林的命令由阿萨德亲自下达的任何证据，但是白宫称，作为叙利亚国家及军队的领导人，他应该对此负责。
Mr. Obama arrived here Wednesday morning after an overnight flight from Washington for a one-day stop before heading on Thursday to St. Petersburg for a gathering of the Group of 20 nations hosted by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Mr. Putin has opposed any retaliatory attack on Syria, calling such action a violation of international law. Mr. Putin repeated in an interview released on Wednesday that he considered the American assertions of culpability by Syrian authorities to be absurd.
周三，奥巴马连夜乘飞机从华盛顿来到这里，进行为期一天的访问。他将于周四前往圣彼得堡参加由俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)主持的20国集团峰会。普京反对对叙利亚实施报复性打击，认为这样做将违反国际法。普京在周三发布的一次采访中重申，他认为，美国将罪责归于叙利亚官方的说法很荒谬。
The trip comes as the president and his advisers are trying to convince Congress to pass a measure formally authorizing a punitive strike. Before taking off, Mr. Obama won support from Republican leaders in the House, but there was no guarantee they could rally rank-and-file members deeply wary about the prospect of the United States becoming entangled in another Middle East war.
此时，奥巴马及顾问正试图说服美国国会通过一项举措，正式授权实施惩罚性打击。出发之前，奥巴马得到了众议院共和党领导人的支持，但目前仍无法保证，他们能把非常担心美国陷入另一场中东战争的普通议员团结起来。
Mr. Obama’s comments here about not being the one who set a red line – a year after using the phrase – and Congress’s credibility being at stake rather than his own irritated some Republican allies on the vote just hours after they agreed to support him. To them, the comments made it look as if he were disclaiming responsibility. 
奥巴马在这里表示自己并非设定红线之人——红线这种说法已经用了一年——还说国会的公信力而非他自己的公信力将受到威胁，这些说法激怒了一些短短几小时前还表态支持他的共和党盟友。在他们看来，奥巴马的言论似乎是在推卸责任。
By saying it was the world’s red line, rather than his own, Mr. Obama was citing longstanding international norms against the use of chemical weapons. But more broadly, like his decision to seek Congressional votes in the first place, he was trying to break out of his isolation in terms of military action against Syria.
奥巴马援引反对使用化学武器的长期国际规范，称红线是全世界的红线，不是他个人的设定。但从更广泛的意义来看，与他之前寻求国会投票的决定一样，此举的意图也是摆脱他在对叙军事行动方面的孤立状态。
Not only has Russia blocked any United Nations action, but even America’s strongest ally, Britain, has opted against participating. A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 59 percent of Americans oppose the proposed missile strike. Standing at Mr. Obama’s side, Sweden’s prime minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, urged waiting for a report from United Nations inspectors, who have sent samples from the scene of the attack to a Swedish laboratory, and said he preferred any action be supported by the Security Council. “But I also understand the potential consequences of letting a violation like this go unanswered,” Mr. Reinfeldt said, in a nod to Mr. Obama’s position.
不仅俄罗斯阻止联合国采取行动，甚至连美国最坚定的盟友英国也选择不参与行动。《华盛顿邮报》和ABC新闻频道( Washington Post-ABC News )联合进行的最新民意调查显示，59%的美国人反对导弹袭击计划。瑞典首相弗雷德里克·赖因费尔特(Fredrik Reinfeldt) 站在奥巴马的身边，敦促各方等待联合国调查员的报告，并且表示，他认为获得联合国安理会支持的行动更可取。联合国调查员已经将攻击现场的样本送到了瑞典的一个实验室。不过，赖因费尔特也对奥巴马的立场表示了赞同，如是表示，“但我也了解对此类暴力事件放任不管的潜在后果。”
American officials have dismissed the United Nations investigation because it is charged only with determining whether there was a chemical attack, which Washington considers undisputed, not the more contentious question of who was responsible. But Mr. Obama acknowledged that the mistaken intelligence about weapons of mass destruction before the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 haunts his current efforts.
美国官员已经决定不理会联合国的调查，因为调查的任务只是确认华盛顿方面认为毫无疑问的一个事实，即是否存在化学武器攻击，而不是解决更具争议的问题，即谁应该为此负责。但奥巴马承认，2003年主导入侵伊拉克之前，美国获得的有关大规模杀伤性武器的情报存在错误，这个先例阻碍了目前的努力。
“I’m very mindful that around the world and here in Europe in particular there are memories of Iraq and weapons of mass destruction accusations and people being concerned about how accurate this information is,” Mr. Obama said. “Keep in mind, I’m somebody who opposed the war in Iraq and am not interested in repeating mistakes basing decisions on false intelligence. But having done a thoroughgoing evaluation of the information that is available, I can say with high confidence that chemical weapons were used.”
“我非常清楚，在世界各地，特别是欧洲地区，人们还记着伊拉克的事情，以及有关大规模杀伤性武器的指控，因此就对目前信息的准确度感到担忧，”奥巴马说。“请记住，我曾经反对伊拉克战争，现在也无意重复基于虚假情报作决定的错误。但我们已经对现有信息进行了充分评估，我可以满怀信心地说，有人使用了化学武器。”
Mr. Obama will fly Thursday to St. Petersburg, where in addition to the G-20 activities he will meet separately with President François Hollande of France, who supports a strike on Syria, President Xi Jinping of China, who does not, and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, who has avoided getting in the middle of the dispute. Mr. Obama does not plan to meet with Mr. Putin, even though that would be typical with a summit host.
奥巴马将于周四乘飞机前往圣彼得堡，除了参加二十国集团(G-20)的活动外，还将在圣彼得堡分别会见法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)、中国国家主席习近平及日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)。奥朗德支持打击叙利亚，习近平并不支持这一计划，而安倍晋三则一直避免卷入这一争端。奥巴马没有与普京举行会晤的计划，尽管与峰会举办者举行会晤是惯例。