WASHINGTON — President Obama is prepared to move ahead with a limited military strike on Syria, administration officials said Thursday, despite a stinging rejection of such action on Thursday by America’s stalwart ally Britain and mounting questions from Congress.
华盛顿——政府官员周四表示，奥巴马总统已准备着手对叙利亚进行有限的军事打击，尽管美国忠实的盟友英国周四无情拒绝了参与打击行动，且美国国会的质疑声也越来越响。
The negative vote in Britain’s Parliament was a heavy blow to Prime Minister David Cameron, who had pledged his support to Mr. Obama and called on lawmakers to endorse Britain’s involvement in a brief operation to punish the government of President Bashar al-Assad for apparently launching a deadly chemical weapons attack last week that killed hundreds.
英国议会的反对票给首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)带来了沉重一击。此前他已承诺支持奥巴马，并号召议员们批准英国参与短期军事行动，以惩罚巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统的政府。各界认为，阿萨德在上周发动了致命性化学武器袭击，造成数百人死亡。
The vote was also a setback for Mr. Obama, who, having given up hope of getting United Nations Security Council authorization for the strike, is struggling to assemble a coalition of allies against Syria.
这次投票结果对奥巴马来说也是一次挫败。对于从联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)获得授权进行打击，他早已放弃希望，因而正在努力联合同盟国对付叙利亚。
But administration officials made clear that the eroding support would not deter Mr. Obama in deciding to go ahead with a strike. Pentagon officials said that the Navy had now moved a fifth destroyer into the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Each ship carries dozens of Tomahawk cruise missiles that would probably be the centerpiece of any attack on Syria.
但政府官员明确表示，虽然支持不断减少，也并不会阻止奥巴马作出决定进行打击。五角大楼官员说海军五分之一的驱逐舰已转入地中海东部。每艘舰船携带几十枚战斧巡航导弹(Tomahawk)，这可能就将成为打击叙利亚的主要武器。
Even before the parliamentary vote, White House officials said, Mr. Obama decided there was no way he could overcome objections by Russia, Syria’s longtime backer, to any resolution in the Security Council.
甚至在英国议会投票之前，白宫官员已表示，奥巴马已认定无法克服俄罗斯对安理会任何相关决议的反对，俄罗斯是叙利亚的长期支持者。
Although administration officials cautioned that Mr. Obama had not made a final decision, all indications suggest that a strike could occur soon after United Nations investigators charged with scrutinizing the Aug. 21 attack leave the country. They are scheduled to depart Damascus on Saturday.
虽然政府官员谨慎表示，奥巴马还没有做出最后决定，但所有迹象均表明，在联合国负责详查“8·21”袭击事件的人员离叙后，打击将很快开展。调查人员计划周六离开大马士革。
The White House presented its case for military action to Congressional leaders on Thursday evening, trying to head off growing pressure from Democrats and Republicans to provide more information about the administration’s military planning and seek Congressional approval for any action.
白宫于周四傍晚向国会领导人提交了军事行动的说明，以阻止民主党及共和党不断施压，并提供更多政府有关军事计划的信息，同时力争取得国会对于任何行动的批准。
In a conference call with Republicans and Democrats, top officials from the State Department, the Pentagon and the nation’s intelligence agencies asserted that the evidence was clear that Mr. Assad’s forces had carried out the attack, according to officials who were briefed.
根据获悉情况的有关官员，在和共和党及民主党代表的电话会议上，国务院(State Department)、五角大楼和国家情报机构的高级官员都坚持认为，有明确的证据显示，阿萨德的武装力量发动了袭击。
While the intelligence does not tie Mr. Assad directly to the attack, these officials said, the administration said the United States had both the evidence and legal justification to carry out a strike aimed at deterring the Syrian leader from using such weapons again.
这些官员也指出，尽管情报并未将阿萨德与袭击直接挂钩，但政府表示美国已掌握证据及法律依据以开展打击，阻止叙利亚领导人再次使用类似武器。
A critical piece of the intelligence, officials said, is an intercepted telephone call between Syrian military officials, one of whom seems to suggest that the chemical weapons attack was more devastating than was intended. “It sounds like he thinks this was a small operation that got out of control,” one intelligence official said.
官员们说，一份关键的情报是，截获的一段叙利亚军事官员之间的电话通话。谈话中一方似乎暗示，化学武器袭击比预料的结果更惨重。“听上去他认为这是一个小规模行动失控了，”一个情报官员说道。
But Republican lawmakers said White House officials dismissed suggestions that the scale of the attack was a miscalculation, indicating that the officials believe Syria intended to inflict the widespread damage.
但共和党议员说，白宫官员否认了袭击规模大是因为误判造成的，这表明官员们相信叙利亚是故意施加大范围的破坏。
“I’m comfortable that the things the president told Assad not to do he did,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who took part with seven other Republican senators in a separate briefing by the White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough.
“我相信阿萨德做了奥巴马告诉他不要做的事，”南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说道。他和其他7名共和党参议员出席了白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)主持的另一个通报会。
Among the officials on the conference call were Secretary of State John Kerry, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper, and the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice. It was unclassified, which means the administration gave lawmakers only limited details about the intelligence they assert bolsters the case for a military strike.
一同出席电话会议的还有国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)、国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)、国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper)及国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)。由于不是保密会议，政府仅向议员们提供了有限的情报细节，他们坚称这些情报支持了军事袭击这一决定。
Before the call, however, some prominent lawmakers expressed anger that the White House was planning a strike without significant consultations with Congress.
不过，在电话会议之前，几位有名的议员，对于白宫在没有同国会进行认真磋商前就计划进行打击，表示愤怒。
“When we take what is a very difficult decision, you have to have buy-in by members and buy-in by the public,” Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Thursday on MSNBC. “I think both of those are critically important and, right now, none of that has happened.”
“当我们要做出非常艰难的决定时，你必须既得到国会成员的支持，也要得到公众的支持，”密歇根州共和党众议员、众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)主席迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)周四在MSNBC电视台说道。“我认为这两方面都非常关键，然而目前，没有任何一方面得到实现。”
Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, said after the telephone briefing that administration officials “had no doubt that chemical weapons were used by Assad and his people.”
纽约州民主党众议员、众议院外交委员会(House Committee on Foreign Affairs)资深成员艾略特·L·恩格尔(Eliot L. Engel)在电话通报会后表示，政府官员“确信无疑阿萨德及其手下使用了化学武器”。
Mr. Engel said that among the evidence described to members of Congress was an intercepted communication “from a high-level Syrian official” discussing the attack. “There is more than enough evidence if the president chooses to act,” Mr. Engel said.
恩格尔说到向国会成员描述的证据中，有一段截获的通讯记录“来自一个叙利亚的高级官员”，谈论此次袭击。“如果总统选择采取行动，证据是很充足的，“恩格尔表示。
After the 90-minute conference call, some senior lawmakers were not persuaded that the Obama administration had made its case for military action in Syria. Representative Buck McKeon of California, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Obama needed to make a forceful case to convince both Congress and a “war weary” country.
在90分钟的电话会议之后，一些资深议员认为，奥巴马政府对叙进行军事行动的理由不够充分。加利福尼亚州众议员、众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)主席巴克·麦克科恩(Buck McKeon)认为，奥巴马需要更强有力的理由来说服国会和这个“疲于战争”的国家。
“If he doesn’t, I think he could have a real problem with the Congress and the American public,” he said. “He’s got a big sell.”
“如果他做不到，我认为他可能会很难得到国会和美国公众的支持，”他说道，“他需要做很多的努力。”
Several officials said that the intelligence dossier about the attack also includes evidence of Syrian military units moving chemical munitions into place before the attack was carried out.
一些官员表示，有关袭击的情报资料还包括一些证据，显示叙利亚军队如何在开展袭击之前将化学弹药准备到位。
Mr. Obama, officials said, is basing his case for action both on safeguarding international standards against the use of chemical weapons and on the threat to America’s national interest.
官员们表示，奥巴马以维护禁止使用化学武器的国际标准及美国国家利益遭受威胁为由，要求采取行动。
That threat, they said, is both to allies in the region, like Turkey, Jordan and Israel, and to the United States itself, if Syria’s weapons were to fall into the wrong hands or if other leaders were to take American inaction as an invitation to use unconventional weapons.
他们称，如果叙利亚的武器落入危险分子手中，或者如果其他领导人将美国的不作为视作鼓励非常规武器的使用，那么美国在该地区的盟友，比如土耳其、约旦及以色列，以及美国本身都会遭受威胁。
Mr. Obama’s rationale for a strike creates a parallel dilemma to the one that President George W. Bush confronted 10 years ago, when he decided to enter into a far broader war with nearly 150,000 American troops in Iraq without seeking an authorizing resolution in the United Nations. The Obama administration says that case differs sharply from its objectives in Syria.
奥巴马对打击理由的阐述造成了一个进退两难的局面，与乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)10年前面临的局面类似，当时布什决定在不寻求联合国授权决议的前提下，派遣将近15万名美国士兵前往伊拉克参加一场大范围的战争。奥巴马政府表示，这种情况与其在叙利亚的战略目标有很大的差异。
In Iraq Mr. Bush was explicitly seeking regime change. In this case, White House officials argue, Mr. Obama is trying to enforce an international ban on chemical weapons and seeking to prevent their use in Syria, or against American allies.
在伊拉克，布什公然寻求政权更迭。白宫官员辩称，在叙利亚问题上，奥巴马试图实施针对化学武器的国际禁令，力图阻止叙利亚政府在其国内或对美国的盟友使用化学武器。
“We have been trying to get the U.N. Security Council to be more assertive on Syria even before this incident,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser for strategic communications. “The problem is that the Russians won’t vote for any accountability.”
“甚至在该事件发生之前，我们就一直要求联合国安理会针对叙利亚采取更大胆的措施，”负责战略沟通的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“问题是俄罗斯人不会投票支持任何形式的问责。”
The decision to proceed without Britain is remarkable, however. Even in the Iraq war, Mr. Bush relied on what he called a “coalition of the willing,” led by Britain. Mr. Obama has made clear that this initiative would come from the United States, and that while he welcomed international participation, he was not depending on foreign forces for what would essentially be an operation largely by the United States, from naval vessels off the Syrian coast.
然而，美国决定在英国不参与的情况下开展行动，这是不同寻常的。即便是伊拉克战争，布什都要依靠他所谓的以英国为首的“意愿联盟”的帮助。奥巴马已经明确表示，将有美国领头行动，虽然他欢迎国际社会参与行动，但他不依靠外国力量来开展这个行动，这本质上是一场美国行动，从叙利亚沿岸的海军舰艇上发动攻击。
Mr. Obama has referred, somewhat vaguely, to reinforcing “international norms,” or standards, against the use of chemical weapons, which are categorized as “weapons of mass destruction” even though they are far less powerful than nuclear or biological weapons.
奥巴马曾模糊地提到强化反对使用化学武器的“国际规范”或标准，化学武器被归类为“大规模杀伤性武器”，但它们远不如核武器或生物武器强大。
In addition to the importance of upholding standards of international behavior, Mr. Obama this week has also highlighted America’s inherent right to self-defense. But some scholars warn that may be a difficult case for the United States to make.
除了维护国际行为标准的重要性，奥巴马本周还强调了美国进行自卫的固有权利。但一些学者警告称，美国很难以此为由发动攻击。
“Under this principle, Turkey, Jordan, Israel, Iraq or Lebanon could respond directly to Syrian belligerent acts, as could their allies, such as NATO and the U.S.,” said Phillip Carter, an analyst with the Center for a New American Security in Washington.  He cautioned that despite the spillover from the violence, there still was no just cause for war with Syria by its neighbors.
华盛顿新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)的分析师菲利普·卡特(Phillip Carter)说， “根据这个原则，土耳其、约旦、以色列、伊拉克或黎巴嫩，及其北约(NATO)与美国盟友，可以直接回应叙利亚的挑衅行为。”卡特警告称，尽管该国的暴力冲突对其他国家有所波及，但邻国仍没有与叙利亚开战的正当理由。
The United States has conducted unilateral bombing campaigns without seeking international endorsement before. But it made a direct case for self-defense.
美国之前曾在没有寻求国际支持的情况下，开展了单边轰炸行动。但它当时提供的自卫理由可以自圆其说。
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan ordered an airstrike on Tripoli after concluding that Libya was behind the bombing of a Berlin disco that killed two American military personnel. In 1998, after deadly bombings of American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, President Bill Clinton authorized cruise missile strikes on Afghanistan and Sudan.
1986年，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统在断定利比亚是柏林舞厅爆炸事件的幕后推手后，下令对的黎波里进行空袭。爆炸事件造成两名美国军事人员死亡。1998年，在美国驻肯尼亚与坦桑尼亚的大使馆发生致命爆炸事件后，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统批准了对阿富汗和苏丹进行巡航导弹打击的行动。