WASHINGTON — The first, and perhaps most painful, call for Kathleen Sebelius to resign as President Obama’s health secretary came this month from an old family friend: Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, who once boasted of a “special relationship” with Ms. Sebelius, forged when he worked for her father-in-law.
华盛顿——要求奥巴马政府医疗部长凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)辞职的第一个呼声，也许是最令她痛苦的呼声，本月来自于一位跟她家有私交的老朋友、堪萨斯州共和党参议员帕特·罗伯茨(Pat Roberts)。罗伯茨曾经夸口跟西贝利厄斯有“特殊交情”，是他为她的岳父工作的时候建立起来的。
Now Ms. Sebelius, the former Kansas governor and onetime insurance commissioner who is the public face of Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul, is facing a barrage of criticism over the problem-plagued rollout of its online insurance exchange. For Republicans, still reeling from their failed “defund Obamacare” strategy and the resulting government shutdown, she has proved a convenient target.
前堪萨斯州州长西贝利厄斯曾担任过医疗保险事务委员，目前是奥巴马医疗改革的代言人。由于政府医改网站在推出的过程中问题多多，西贝利厄斯正面临着猛烈的批评。对共和党人来说，已经失败的“撤资奥巴马医改”(defund Obamacare)策略以及由此产生的政府停摆事件仍在发挥影响，西贝利厄斯结果成了一个方便的靶子。
Republicans insist the buck stops with the secretary. Ms. Sebelius runs the Department of Health and Human Services, the agency responsible for carrying out the far-reaching Affordable Care Act, but there are questions about how deeply she was involved in the development of the troubled HealthCare.gov Web site and whether she saw the problems coming.
共和党坚持要卫生部长负起责任来。西贝利厄斯主管的卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)负责《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的实施工作，这个法案的影响巨大，但问题是她在多大程度上参与了医改网站HealthCare.gov的开发过程，以及她是否预见到了该网站会出状况。
“Kathleen has the title, but she doesn’t have the responsibility or in many respects the kind of wide authority and access to the president that she really needs to make a difference,” said one person close to Ms. Sebelius and the White House, who asked to remain anonymous to discuss internal decision-making. “Everybody thinks that she’s the driving force, but unfortunately she’s not.”
“凯瑟琳有部长的头衔，但是她没有这个义务，从很多方面来说，她也缺乏足够大的权力以及接近总统的渠道，无法真正有所作为，”一名熟悉西贝利厄斯但要求保持匿名的白宫人士在谈到内部决策机制时说。“大家都认为她是推动者，可惜她不是。”
The White House kept close tabs on the effort, with particular attention to the Web site’s design, but managing the details of the software development was left to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which Ms. Sebelius oversees. She testified on Capitol Hill this spring that the exchanges were “on track” to open on Oct. 1, but those close to her say she has been far more immersed in developing policy related to the health care law, and in traveling the country to promote it, than in its technical aspects.House Republicans, including leaders of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which planned a hearing Thursday to examine issues related to the technical failures of the Web site, have demanded that she testify.
白宫一直密切关注着医改进程，而且对医改网站的设计特别留意，但是，但是具体的软件开发交给了联邦医疗保险与医疗补助服务中心(Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services)，这个机构是由西贝利厄斯主管的。今年春天在国会山作证时，她说医改网站可以在10月1日顺利开放，但那些熟悉她的人说，跟技术方面相比，她在医改法相关政策制定上倾注的精力要多得多，还要前往全国各地为它作推广。能源和商务委员会(Energy and Commerce Committee)已计划本周四召开一个听证会，调查跟医改网站技术故障有关的问题；参议院的共和党人，包括该委员会的领导者，已经要求她前往作证。
Though the widespread failure of the online insurance exchange has led many critics to call for her resignation, Ms. Sebelius’s allies said she has no intention of stepping down. “She has the president’s confidence,” Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, said in an interview on Tuesday. “And she knows that.”
由于医改网站出现大范围故障，许多评论家都呼吁西贝利厄斯引咎辞职，尽管如此，她的盟友说她无意下台。“总统对她有信心，”白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)上周二接受采访时说：“她知道这一点。”
But even her Democratic defenders agree that the secretary did not help herself with a fumbling appearance earlier this month on “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.” Mr. Stewart began the show by pulling out a laptop computer and declaring, “I’m going to try and download every movie ever made, and you’re going to try and sign up for Obamacare, and we’ll see which happens first.”
但是，即使民主党里挺她的人也觉得，本月早些时候她上《乔恩·斯图尔特每日秀》(The Daily Show With Jon Stewart)时的笨拙表现，对她自己很不利。在那个节目里，斯图尔特一上来就拿出一台笔记本电脑，“我现在开始下载世界上所有的电影，你去试试注册医改网站，我们看看谁先搞定。”
For Ms. Sebelius, the interview went downhill from there; soon Republicans were gleefully circulating video clips to reporters. Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio host, said she looked “ignorant, misleading and totally incompetent.” Even Mr. McDonough did not defend the performance, saying only, “I thought it was tough.”
对于西贝利厄斯来说，访谈从那一刻起就已经是一场噩梦；很快，共和党人就开始兴高采烈地把视频片段给记者看。保守派电台主持人拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)说她看上去“无知、误导人，完全不称职。”即使麦克多诺也没有为她的表现辩护，只是说：“我之前就觉得这不好对付。”
The secretary, who declined to be interviewed, has kept a low television profile since then, prompting questions about whether the White House was keeping her under wraps, though she has taken questions at community events. Tuesday night, she sat for an interview with Dr. Sanjay Gupta of CNN, which promoted the interview on Twitter, asking, “What went wrong w#Obamacare website? Will she resign?”
西贝利厄斯拒绝接受我们的采访，自从那个节目之后，她不怎么在电视上露面，让人怀疑是不是白宫让她这么做，不过她会在社区活动里回答了问题。周二晚上，她参加了CNN的桑杰·加普塔(Sanjay Gupta)博士的访谈。CNN在Twitter上推广这个采访时提出了几个问题：“#奥巴马医保 网站出了什么问题？她会辞职吗？”
Ms. Sebelius has been at Mr. Obama’s side since 2007, when she was governor and he was challenging Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
自2007年以来，西贝利厄斯一直是奥巴马阵营的人，当时她是州长，奥巴马正在跟希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)争夺民主党总统候选人提名。
Mr. Obama admired Ms. Sebelius, said his former senior adviser David Axelrod, as “a very successful governor in a red state.” As a former insurance commissioner, she was eager to be health secretary, he said. “She anticipated that he would do health reform,” Mr. Axelrod said. “That was the attraction to her.”
前奥巴马高级顾问大卫·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说，总统夸奖西贝利厄斯是“支持共和党的州中一名非常成功的州长。”作为一名前保险事务委员，她渴望成为卫生部长，他说。“她预计到奥巴马要进行医疗改革，”阿克塞尔罗德说，“这就是吸引她的地方。”
Getting the Web site running was only one component, albeit a very public one, of Ms. Sebelius’s work to implement the Affordable Care Act. After the bill became law in 2010, she began holding weekly meetings on a range of thorny regulatory and policy issues, like how to define the “essential health benefits” provided by insurance plans or what to do about a possible shortage of primary care doctors.
尽管受公众关注最多，但在西贝利厄斯实施《合理医疗费用法案》的工作中，让医改网站正常运行只是其中的一部分。自从这个法案在2010年成为法律之后，她每周召开会议，解决一系列棘手的监管和政策问题，比如如何定义保险计划提供的“基本卫生福利”，如何应对可能会出现的初级保健医生短缺状况。