NUSA DUA, Indonesia — Secretary of State John Kerry sat in the chair reserved for President Obama at the opening session of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting on Monday, leaving China’s leader, Xi Jinping, as the dominant leader at the gathering, devoted to achieving greater economic integration in the region.
印度尼西亚努沙杜瓦——在周一举行的亚太经济合作组织峰会上(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)坐在了预留给奥巴马总统的座位上，代替其出席，这使得中国国家主席习近平成为这一致力于加强地区经济融合的会议的主要领导者。
Mr. Obama, who canceled his appearance at the meeting to try to resolve the government shutdown in Washington, had planned to use his personal persuasion to push forward negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade bloc that is led by the United States and that excludes China.
奥巴马取消了出席此次会议，留在华盛顿努力解决政府关门的问题，此前他曾计划通过亲自劝说来推进跨太平洋伙伴关系协议（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）谈判，TPP是一个由美国领导并将中国排斥在外的贸易协定。
A statement by foreign and trade ministers painted a fairly gloomy economic forecast for the 21 members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group as the leaders met at an international conference center on the Indonesian island of Bali.
就在领导人齐聚印度尼西亚巴厘岛国际会议中心之时，各国外交及贸易部长却发表了一份声明，给亚太经济合作组织21个成员国描绘了一幅相当黯淡的经济前景。
“Global growth is too weak, risks remain tilted to the downside, and the economic outlook suggests growth is likely to be slower and less balanced than desired,” the ministers said.
“全球经济增长过于疲软，仍存在下滑风险，经济前景显示增长将进一步放缓，发展的平衡性也不如人意，”部长们表示。
To overcome the slow growth, it is imperative for the group to agree on a “comprehensive series of structural reforms so as to increase productivity, labor force participation and high-quality job creation,” the statement said.
为解决经济增长缓慢的问题，亚太经合组织成员国必须实现“一系列全面的结构改革，以提高生产力、劳动力参与率，增加优质就业机会，”声明写道。
According to data from the group, its members account for about 40 percent of the world’s population, 55 percent of global gross domestic product and about 44 percent of world trade. Trade within the group has grown nearly sevenfold since it was founded in 1989, topping $11 trillion in 2011.
经合组织的数据显示，其成员国拥有全球约40%的人口，GDP总量占全球的55%，贸易额占世界总量的约44%。自1989年建立以来，该组织内部的交易额已增长了近七倍，并在2011年超过11万亿美元（约合67万亿元人民币）。
The American trade representative, Michael Froman, said the Obama administration remained committed to trying to complete the negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership by the end of the year. “Our message is ‘Let’s get this done as soon as possible,'” Mr. Froman said in an interview. The Dec. 31 goal is “ambitious, but it’s doable,” he said.
美国贸易代表迈克尔·费罗曼(Michael Froman)表示，奥巴马政府仍致力于尝试在年底前完成关于TPP的谈判。“我们想要传达的讯息是‘让我们尽快把这事搞定，’”费罗曼在一次采访中表示。12月31日的目标“野心勃勃，但并非无法实现”，他说。
The partnership, a major element of Mr. Obama’s pivot toward Asia, is intended to achieve open market access among the 12 participants, with the United States, Japan, Mexico and Canada as the major economies.
TPP是奥巴马转向亚洲政策的主要组成部分之一，旨在让12个参与国获取彼此的开放市场准入，其中的主要经济体是美国、日本、墨西哥和加拿大。
The administration was hoping that the leader of South Korea, Park Geun-hye, would announce at the meeting that South Korea was ready to join the negotiations. But South Korean officials said Ms. Park would not make that declaration in Bali.
美国政府此前一直希望韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)能在会上宣布韩国已做好准备加入TPP谈判。但韩国官员表示，朴槿惠不会在巴厘发表这样的声明。
The absence of Mr. Obama took some gravitas out of the conference, and there were deep questions about how the president could get a trade pact through Congress given the hostility of conservative Republicans in the House toward his domestic programs.
奥巴马的缺席降低了此次会议的重要性，此外，考虑到众议院保守共和党人对奥巴马国内计划的不友好态度，人们十分怀疑他无法使国会通过一项贸易协定。
The prime minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, who maintains friendly relations with China, was the most direct in describing the damage to the summit meeting by Mr. Obama’s absence. “No other country can replace” the American engagement in Asia, he said. “Not China, not Japan, not any other power. That is something which we continue and encourage at every opportunity.”
谈论奥巴马缺席给此次峰会带来的损失时，和中国保持着友好关系的新加坡总理李显龙(Lee Hsien Loong)最为直接。“没有哪个国家能够取代”美国在亚洲的参与，“中国不行、日本不行，其他任何国家都不可以。这是件我们要抓住每个机会推动、鼓励其继续发展的事情。”
President Bill Clinton canceled a trip to the group’s summit meeting in Japan in 1995, and was able to recover American prestige in the region, officials said. But the far greater competition for influence between the United States and China and the dynamic economies of Asia make the region far more important to Washington now.
官员称，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统曾在1995年取消出席在日本举行的亚太经合组织峰会，后来也仍然能够重塑美国在该地区的地位。然而，中美两国在该地区影响力之争的激烈程度大大增加，再加上亚洲的经济发展形势，都让亚洲对于华盛顿的重要性大幅提高。
On the sidelines of the summit meeting, Mr. Kerry met with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and the two diplomats expressed satisfaction with the progress of the destruction of chemical weapons in Syria by international disarmament inspectors. The first weapons, including missile warheads, were destroyed Sunday, Mr. Kerry said.
峰会期间，克里和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)会面，两名外交官对国际裁军检查员在叙利亚销毁化学武器的工作进展表示满意。克里表示，包括导弹弹头在内的第一批化武已在周日被销毁。
“It is a good beginning, and we should welcome a good beginning,” he said. The secretary also praised the cooperation of Russia and the compliance of Syria in the process.
“这是一个好的开始，我们应该对此表示欢迎，”克里说。他还对在此过程中俄国的合作及叙利亚的配合表示了赞扬。
The two diplomats said they would push for a November start for a Geneva conference to reach a political settlement in Syria under the auspices of the United Nations.
两位外交官说，他们将推动日内瓦会议在11月召开，以便各方在联合国的主持下就叙利亚问题达成政治协议。
In opening remarks to the leaders at the summit meeting, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia, the host nation, said the group was even more important today because its 21 member economies continued to “feel the pain” of the global economic crisis.
向各国领导人发表峰会开幕致辞时，东道国印度尼西亚总统苏西洛·班邦·尤多约诺(Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono)表示，今天，亚太经合组织的地位甚至更加重要，原因是该组织的21个经济体还在持续“感受”全球经济危机的“阵痛”。
“In view of the difficult global economic situation these days, it becomes even more critical for all of us to work together in maintaining regional resilience,” he said. “With this resilience, the APEC region will remain an important engine of global growth.”
他说，“鉴于近日以来艰难的全球经济局面，有一点变得更加关键，那就是我们应该携起手来，维持本区域的经济韧性。”
Mr. Yudhoyono, citing International Monetary Fund data, said Sunday that the economies in the group would grow by 6.3 percent this year and 6.6 percent in 2014.
尤多约诺于周日援引国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的数据说，亚太经合组织各经济体今年的经济增速将达到6.3%，2014年的增速将达到6.6%。
A report released Monday by the World Bank, however, said that developing economies in East Asia and the Pacific, some of which are members of the group, were expanding at a slower pace as China shifted from export-driven growth and focused on domestic demand. According to the report, the growth forecast for the region’s developing countries is 7.1 percent for this year and 7.2 percent for 2014, a slight downward projection from April.
然而，世界银行(World Bank)周一发表的报告指出，东亚及太平洋地区发展中国家，其中包括一些亚太经合组织成员，增长步伐已经放缓，这是因为中国转变了出口驱动的经济增长模式，把重点放在了内需上。据这份报告预测，本地区发展中国家本年度的经济增长将为7.1%，2014年的增长则为7.2%，相较该行于今年4月发布的预测，这一数字出现了轻微下滑。
Growth in larger middle-income countries, including Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, is also softening because of lower investment and global commodity prices, as well as lower-than-expected export growth, the report said. The only exception is the Philippines, where growth accelerated in 2013, said Bert Hofman, the World Bank’s chief economist for East Asia and the Pacific.
报告说，由于投资减少，全球商品价格降低，再加上低于预期的出口增长，包括印度尼西亚、马来西亚和泰国等规模较大的中等收入国家的经济增长也在放缓。世界银行东亚及太平洋地区首席经济学家郝福满(Bert Hofman)表示，唯一的例外是菲律宾，该国的经济增长速度在2013年有所提高。
“It’s always a bit of a pity if you slow down, but we see a pickup next year on the premise that the global economy will do better,” Mr. Hofman said. “Seven percent growth for the whole region, excluding China, that’s a very decent growth rate. The East Asia and Pacific region still contributes a lot to world growth.”
郝福满说，“增速慢下来的时候，你总会感觉到有点遗憾，不过，在全球经济表现有所改善的前提下，我们预测本地区明年的经济会出现复苏。除了中国，整个亚太地区的经济增长将达到7%，这是一个非常可观的增长率。东亚及太平洋地区依然会对全球经济的发展做出巨大贡献。”
One of the most important aspects of the summit meeting is the private discussions between leaders on the sidelines of the main gathering.
峰会最重要的一个方面之一，是各国领导人在主要会议间隙举行的私人讨论。
The Australian leader, Tony Abbott, met with Mr. Xi on Sunday night for the first time since becoming prime minister in September. On Monday, he said he hoped a free-trade agreement between Australia and China would be completed within 12 months.
澳大利亚领导人托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)于周日晚间会见了习近平，这是他自今年9月成为澳大利亚新任总理以来首次与习近平举行会晤。他在周一表示，他希望澳大利亚和中国能在12个月内完成双方的自由贸易协定。
Mr. Abbott said he planned to lead a large government and business delegation to China within the first six months of 2014, at the invitation of Mr. Xi. “The prosperity of every country in the region, including Australia, critically depends on trade and investment,” he said. “Our recent prosperity critically depends on the massive expansion of resource exports to countries in our region, particularly to China, and we want that to continue and not slow down.”
阿博特说，应习近平之邀，他计划于2014年上半年率领一支庞大的政府及商业代表团访问中国。他说，“包括澳大利亚在内，本地区各国的经济繁荣都严重依赖于贸易和投资。我们最近的经济繁荣，严重依赖于我们对亚太各国、尤其是对中国大幅提升的资源出口，我们希望这种趋势能够持续下去，而不是放缓。”
Mr. Abbott had planned to meet with Mr. Obama as well. The Australian leader said it was “a disappointment” that Mr. Obama had canceled his trip, but said it was understandable given the political deadlock in Washington. He said the president’s absence would not undermine the American “pivot” strategy in Asia.
阿博特原本计划会见奥巴马。这位澳大利亚领导人说，奥巴马取消行程的决定“令人失望”，不过他说，考虑到华盛顿的政治僵局，这样的决定可以理解。他说，美国总统的缺席不会削弱美国的“转向亚洲”战略。
“I fully understand the most constructive way America can engage with the world depends upon America being as strong as it can be at home,” Mr. Abbott said. “I don’t think anyone here holds it against the president that he has very important business at home, and it is certainly in no way inconsistent with the pivot in Asia.”
阿博特说，“我完全理解，美国参与全球事务最具建设性的方式有赖于美国国内局势的最大稳固。我认为这里的任何人都不会反对这一点，那就是总统目前在国内有极其重要的事务，取消行程和美国的转向亚洲战略没有半点抵触。”
Negotiations between China and Australia were described last week as “stalled” by the Australian minister for trade and investment, Andrew Robb.
澳大利亚贸易和投资部长安德鲁·罗布(Andrew Robb)于上周表示，中国和澳大利亚的谈判“陷入了僵局”。