BRISBANE, Australia — When President Obama ended his last trip to Asia in the Philippines in April, he delivered a defense of his foreign policy as a slow, steady pursuit of American interests — casting himself as a batter who hits singles and doubles, but avoids reckless errors.
澳大利亚布里斯班——当奥巴马总统今年四月在菲律宾结束了他最近的一次亚洲之行时，他曾为自己的外交政策辩护，说那是稳扎稳打地追求美国利益，他把自己形容为虽然只是击出了一垒、二垒安打的棒球球员，但能避免鲁莽的错误。
As he finishes another tour of the region in Australia this weekend, Mr. Obama seems to have found a formula for a more ambitious approach overseas, built around two issues that only recently climbed to the top of his agenda: trade and climate change.
这个周末在澳大利亚完成了又一次对亚洲地区的访问时，奥巴马似乎找到了一个公式，让他在海外能实现更雄心勃勃做法，这个公式所围绕的两个问题最近才上升到他议事日程的首要位置：贸易和气候变化。
The scorecard for this trip looks drastically different from the last one: a landmark climate-change agreement with China, a trade deal with the Chinese on technology products, signs of progress on a regional trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and a $3 billion pledge to a climate-change fund for developing countries.
这次访问的收获看起来与上一次的截然不同：访问期间与中国达成了具有里程碑意义的气候变化协议，还与中国达成了技术产品贸易协议，在被称为“跨太平洋伙伴关系”的区域贸易谈判上也有进展的迹象，还承诺为帮助发展中国家应对气候变化的基金提供30亿美元（约合183亿元人民币）的捐款。
Some of the difference is merely a question of timing. Negotiations with the Chinese on the climate and trade agreements had been underway for months. The prospects for a Trans-Pacific Partnership deal improved in recent months, and may actually be helped further in the United States by the Republican majorities in both houses of Congress.
但其中一些收获仅仅是时机问题。与中国就气候和贸易协议的谈判已经进行了好几个月了。跨太平洋伙伴关系协议的前景在最近几个月也有所改观，并且可能会因为共和党在国会两院赢得多数席位而在美国国内得到进一步的推动。
These issues do not come without traps of their own. Republicans immediately condemned Mr. Obama’s climate agreement with China. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said it would require China to do nothing for 16 years while “creating havoc in my state and other states across the country.”
这些问题并非摆脱了自身的困境。奥巴马与中国达成气候协议后，共和党人马上加以谴责。参议院共和党领袖、肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)说，协议会让中国在16年中什么都不用做，而“对我的州及其他州造成极大的破坏。”
But administration officials said the accomplishments of the trip exemplified what Mr. Obama hopes will be an “affirmative agenda” in foreign policy — one that will offset the relentless stream of crises he has confronted, including the Islamic State militant group, the Ebola outbreak and Ukraine.
不过，政府官员表示，此行成果是奥巴马希望外交政策有的“积极议程”的一个例证，这个积极议程将弥补他面临的源源不断的危机，包括伊斯兰国武装组织、埃博拉病毒爆发、以及乌克兰问题。
“Even as we have to manage crises, we want to make sure we’re focusing on an affirmative agenda,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. “I think that’s the common thread on this trip.”
“虽然我们需要应对危机，但我们也要确保我们把重点放在积极议程上，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“我认为这是此行的共同主线。”
Mr. Obama clearly relished having momentum as he arrived in Brisbane for a meeting of the Group of 20, the organization of 19 industrial and emerging-market countries plus the European Union. Speaking at the University of Queensland on Saturday, he drew noisy applause when he talked about how the climate deal with China could galvanize efforts to negotiate a new global climate treaty in 2015.
奥巴马在抵达布里斯班参加二十国集团会议时，显然对拥有的势头津津乐道，二十国集团包括19个工业和新兴市场国家、再加上欧洲联盟。他周六在昆士兰大学演讲时，谈到了与中国的协议将如何激励各国，为在2015年达成新的全球气候条约谈判而努力，博得了热烈的掌声。
“You’ve got to be able to overcome old divides, look squarely at the science and reach a strong global climate agreement next year,” Mr. Obama said. “If China and the United States can agree on this, then the world can agree on this. We can get this done.”
奥巴马说，“我们必须能够克服旧的分歧，正视科学，在明年达成强有力的全球气候协议。如果中国和美国能在这一点上达成共识，那么整个世界都能达成共识。我们能完成这件事。”
Mr. Obama’s words carried an extra edge in Australia, where Prime Minister Tony Abbott is a blunt skeptic about the science behind climate change. He boasted to the leaders gathered for the meeting that his government had repealed a tax on carbon emissions — a key tool to curb the greenhouse gases that heat up the atmosphere.
奥巴马的话对澳大利亚来说额外地尖锐，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特对气候变化背后的科学表示过直言不讳的怀疑。他对参加二十国首脑会议的各国领导人炫耀，他的政府废除了一项碳排放征税，这种税是遏制温室气体排放的一个重要工具，而排放会让大气温度升高。
Mr. Abbott tried to keep climate change off the agenda at the Group of 20 meeting, preferring to focus on jobs and economic growth. But Mr. Obama’s $3 billion pledge to the Green Climate Fund, announced in his speech here, made that difficult.
阿博特试图把气候变化排除在二十国集团会议的议程之外，把会议的重点放在就业和经济增长上。但是，奥巴马在这里发表的演讲中宣布向联合国绿色气候基金(Green Climate Fund)捐赠30美亿的承诺，让阿博特的打算难以实现。
The timing was clearly intended to prod other would-be donors, like Japan, which was expected to announce a contribution of up to $1.5 billion toward the fund’s total goal of $10 billion.
宣布的时机显然是为了督促其他可能的捐赠者，比如日本，日本预计将宣布为这项100亿美元的基金提供最多15亿美元的捐款。
Mr. Obama seemed well aware of what he was doing. Australia and the United States, he said, both have bad track records on carbon emissions because they share a frontier tradition and an abundance of fossil fuels — “which means,” he said, “we’ve got to step up.”
奥巴马似乎很清楚他要做什么。他说，澳大利亚和美国都有糟糕的碳排放纪录，因为两国有着开拓殖民的共同传统，也都拥有丰富的化石燃料，他说，“这意味着，我们需要做出更大的努力。”
That line drew a burst of applause from the audience. Australian officials listened respectfully but left little doubt where they stood afterward.
这句话在听众中引起了一片掌声。澳大利亚官员虽然也毕恭毕敬地听着，但之后立场也没有太多动摇。
“Australia is a resources-exporting economy: coal, gas, uranium,” said Tim Nicholls, the treasurer and minister of trade of the State of Queensland. “We think a sensible debate is absolutely necessary, but we also think there is a future for coal, as there is for gas.”
“澳大利亚是一个资源出口型经济：煤炭、天然气、铀，”昆士兰州财政与贸易部长蒂姆·尼科尔斯(Tim Nicholls)说。“我们认为，一个合理的辩论是完全必要的，但我们也认为，煤炭仍有未来，就像天然气有未来一样。”
Mr. Obama came to the meeting with another advantage: The American economy is growing more rapidly than most others, especially Japan’s and Europe’s. He said the United States would push for countries to pursue more expansionary economic policies to stimulate demand and create jobs.
奥巴马是带着另一个优势来参加会议的：美国经济的增长速度比很多其他国家的都高，尤其是和日本和欧洲的增长速度相比。他说，美国将敦促各国采取更多促进发展的经济政策，以刺激需求，创造就业机会。
“Over the last few years,” he said, “the United States has put more people back to work than all other advanced economies combined. But America can’t be expected to just carry the world economy on our back.”
他说，“在过去的几年里，美国已经让越来越多的人重新就业，比所有其他发达经济体加起来还多。但是，世界不能指望美国一国来担负发展全球经济的重任。”
Some economists predicted that Mr. Obama’s words would carry weight in a way that they did not in previous years because the United States is so obviously outperforming its peers.
一些经济学家预测，奥巴马今年的讲话具有往年所没有的影响力，因为美国的经济如此明显地好于同类国家。
“The rest of the world is looking at the United States with a degree of envy,” said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. “The way that the U.S. has recovered, the way it relatively quickly handled its banking crisis, the shale revolution and so on.”
“世界其他国家都以某种羡慕的眼光看着美国，”哈佛大学经济学教授肯尼斯·罗格夫(Kenneth Rogoff)说。“美国经济复苏的方式，其较快地处理了银行业危机的方式，以及其页岩革命等等，都令人羡慕。”
Still, it is not clear how long the afterglow from Mr. Obama’s trip will last. He must deal with Republicans who have pledged to fight him on issues from an immigration overhaul to the Keystone XL pipeline. Many Democrats will not cheer his success if he manages to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
不过，目前尚不清楚奥巴马此行的余辉将能持续多久。他必须与共和党人打交道，而他们已发誓将在从移民改革到Keystone XL输油管道等一系列问题上与他对抗。如果他在跨太平洋伙伴关系谈判上取得成功，许多民主党人也不会为他庆贺。