In the District of Columbia’s historic Penn Quarter, the newly opened China Chilcano is a departure from the usual Spanish sprawl of José Andrés, the tapas pioneer (and arguably the city’s most famous chef) who runs a mini-empire of restaurants, frequented by Barack and Michelle Obama, in the city.
西班牙小吃先锋大厨（也是华盛顿最著名的大厨）何塞·安德烈(José Andrés)在华盛顿历史悠久的佩恩区新开设了China Chilcano餐馆，它不同于这位大厨通常做的西班牙菜。奥巴马夫妇经常惠顾安德烈在这座城市经营的迷你餐馆帝国。
This time, the spotlight is on Peru, with its large and diverse communities of Japanese and Chinese immigrants. Inspired by two years’ worth of travels throughout Peru, China, Japan and Southeast Asia, Andrés set out to create a menu exploring the distinct cuisines of Chinese Chifa, Japanese Nikkei and Peruvian Criollo (Creole) cultures. The result: main courses like a heaping plate of chaufa, a common Chinese-influenced Peruvian fried rice with pork belly, fried egg, fried plantain, chayote and fresh tomato; a spicy bigeye tuna ceviche with puffed quinoa, soy-cured egg yolk, avocado, mountain yam and furikake seasoning; and house-made “Chi-racha” (in the vein of Sriracha) made with Peruvian peppers. (Just don’t call it fusion.)
这一次的焦点是秘鲁，那里有一些日本和中国移民组成的充满多样性的大社区。安德烈在秘鲁、中国、日本和东南亚旅行了两年，开创了一个探索中国吃法、日本料理和秘鲁西班牙拉美菜肴不同特色的菜单。结果是这样的：主菜包括一盘堆得满满的炒饭，这道常见的受中餐影响的秘鲁炒饭里含有猪肚、煎蛋、炸大蕉、佛手瓜和鲜番茄；酸橘汁腌辣大眼金枪鱼里含有蓬松的藜麦、卤蛋黄、牛油果、山药和日本香松调料；用秘鲁辣椒自制的“Chi-racha”（泰式香甜辣椒酱的风格）（但是不要称它为融合菜）。
The vibrant, stylized interiors are also part of the narrative. The Spanish architect Juli Capella designed the industrial wood-accented room, subtly staged into three spaces. Like the menu, the space offers a discerning blend of elements, from the Peruvian woven textiles to the recessed Japanese dining tables to the ceiling’s swirling lights, which evoke patterns reminiscent of ancient geoglyphs found in Southern Peru’s Nazca Desert. The effect is only intensified after a few obligatory pisco brandy sours, Peru’s national cocktail. It’s hard to take your eyes off the pièce de résistance, filling an entire wall: a bold, sensual and Kubrick-red floral-tattooed wall mural courtesy of the Peruvian-turned-Philadelphian artist Cecilia Paredes, fittingly titled “Both Worlds.”
这家餐馆的另一个特色是色彩明亮、具有艺术风格的内部装修。西班牙建筑师胡利·卡佩利亚(Juli Capella)设计了这个工业木材情调的房间，它巧妙地分为三个空间。和菜单一样，这个空间明显混合了多种元素，从秘鲁的编织品、日本的嵌入式餐桌，到天花板上的漩涡状灯饰，这种灯饰让人想起了秘鲁南部纳斯卡沙漠的古代地质印痕。来这里必须喝几杯皮斯科白兰地酸酒，它是秘鲁的代表性鸡尾酒。喝完之后，你的感受就会更强烈。你很难把眼睛从装修的重头戏上移开，它占了一整面墙：秘鲁出生的费城艺术家塞西莉亚·帕雷德斯(Cecilia Paredes)创作的、非常醒目、刺激感官的库布里克红色花朵墙绘，它被贴切地命名为《两个世界》(Both Worlds)。