PRESIDENT OBAMA will deliver his State of the Union address on Jan. 28, but, for my money, his secretary of education, Arne Duncan, already gave it. Just not enough people heard it.
奥巴马总统将于1月28日发表国情咨文演说，但是依我看，他手下的教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)已经发表过一遍了。只是听到的人没那么多。
So instead of Obama fishing around for contrived ideas to put in his speech — the usual laundry list that wins applause but no action — the president should steal Duncan’s speech and claim it as his own (I won’t tell) because it was not a laundry list and wasn’t a feel-good speech. In fact, it was a feel-bad speech, asking one big question. Are we falling behind as a country in education not just because we fail to recruit the smartest college students to become teachers or reform-resistant teachers’ unions, but because of our culture today: too many parents and too many kids just don’t take education seriously enough and don’t want to put in the work needed today to really excel?
所以奥巴马不用冥思苦想一些点子放进自己的演说——这种演说通常只是啰嗦地罗列一些事项，赢得听众的掌声，但并不采取行动。奥巴马只需要照抄邓肯的演说，之后宣称是自己原创的即可（我不会告密的），因为邓肯的演说并非罗列事项，也不是一个为了让人听了舒服的演说。实际上，它是一个让人听了不舒服的演说，而且问出了一个重要的问题。我们这个国家在教育方面落于人后，原因是否不仅在于未能招募最聪明的大学生当老师，也不在于教师工会阻挠改革，而是还在于当今的文化：太多的父母和太多的孩子对教育不够在乎，不想付出所需的努力来真正取得优异的成绩？
Is this the key cause of income inequality and persistent poverty? No. But it is surely part of their solutions, and it is a subject that Obama has not used his bully pulpit to address in any sustained way. Nothing could spark a national discussion of this more than a State of the Union address.
这是收入不平等，贫困持续存在的关键原因吗？不是，但要想解决这些问题，它肯定是解决方案的一部分。而一直以来，奥巴马并没有利用众人瞩目的发言机会，以任何持续的方式讨论这项议题。没有什么比国情咨文演说更容易激起全国性的辩论。
I’ll get to Duncan’s speech in a moment, but, if you think he’s exaggerating, listen to some teachers. Here are the guts of a letter published recently by The Washington Post from a veteran seventh-grade language arts teacher in Frederick, Md., who explained why she no longer wants to teach. (She asked to remain anonymous.)
我等一会儿再介绍邓肯的演说，不过如果你认为他夸张了，还请听听一些教师的意见。这是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)最近刊载的一封读者来信的主要内容，作者是马里兰州弗雷德里克一位七年级语言课教师，她解释了自己不再想教书的原因。（她要求匿名。）
After complaining about the “superficial curriculum that encouraged mindless conformity,” she wrote: “I decided that if I was going to teach this nonsense, I was at least going to teach it well. I set my expectations high, I kept my classroom structured, I tutored students, I provided extra practice and I tried to make class fun. ... I quickly rose through the ranks of ‘favorite teacher,’ kept open communication channels with parents and had many students with solid A’s. It was about this time that I was called down to the principal’s office. ... She handed me a list of about 10 students, all of whom had D’s or F’s. At the time, I only had about 120 students, so I was relatively on par with a standard bell curve. As she brought up each one, I walked her through my grade sheets that showed not low scores but a failure to turn in work — a lack of responsibility. I showed her my tutoring logs, my letters to parents, only to be interrogated further.
她先是抱怨“鼓励盲从的浅薄课程”，之后又写道：“我下定决心，既然要教这些荒唐的课，就要教好。我的预期很高，也让教学井井有条，还会辅导学生，提供额外的练习，并努力让课堂显得好玩……我很快就在‘最受欢迎’教师的行列里越升越高，与家长们保持着畅通的沟通渠道，有很多学生的成绩能稳拿A。我被叫到校长办公室大概就是这个时候……她递给了我大概有10个学生的名单，成绩都是D甚至F。当时我只有120个学生，相对来说他们的成绩与标准的‘钟形曲线’(bell curve)大体一致。她提到每一名学生时，我都会给她从头讲解我的打分表，表示原因并不是他们成绩差，而是他们没有交作业——这是缺乏责任感。我给她展示了我的辅导记录、我写给家长的信，结果却受到了更多诘问。
“Eventually, the meeting came down to two quotes that I will forever remember as the defining slogans for public education: ‘They are not allowed to fail.’ ‘If they have D’s or F’s, there is something that you are not doing for them.’ What am I not doing for them? I suppose I was not giving them the answers. I was not physically picking up their hands to write for them. I was not following them home each night to make sure they did their work on time. I was not excusing their lack of discipline. ... Teachers are held to impossible standards, and students are accountable for hardly any part of their own education and are incapable of failing.”
“到最后，这次会面引出了两句我永远不会忘记的话，它们堪称公立教育很有代表性的口号：‘不允许他们不及格’，‘要是他们拿了D或F，肯定是因为你为他们做的不够多’。我还有什么没为他们做呢？我想我还没直接把答案告诉他们，没有亲自抓住他们的手替他们写作业，没有每天晚上跟着他们回家，盯着他们按时写作业。我不能原谅他们缺乏自律……教师们面对着不可能达到的标准，可是学生在自己的教育中，却几乎不需要为任何部分负责，而且还不能不及格。”
I got an almost identical letter last month from a high school teacher in Oregon: “Until about 1992, I would have at least one kid in every class who simply wouldn’t do anything.  A bad class might have two. Today I have 10 to 15. I recently looked back at my old exams from the ’80s. These were tough, comprehensive ones without the benefit of notes. Few would pass them today.  We are dumbing down our classes.  It is an inexorable downward progression in which one day all a kid will need to pass is to have a blood pressure. The kids today are not different in ‘nature.’ ... The difference is that back then, although they didn’t want to, they would do the work. Today, they won’t. ... This is a real conversation I had with a failing student who was being quite sincere in her comments: ‘I know you’re a really good teacher, but you don’t seem to realize I have two hours a night of Facebook and over 4,000 text messages a month to deal with. How do you expect me to do all this work?’ When I collect homework at the beginning of class, it is standard out of a class of 35, to receive only 8 to 10 assignments. If I didn’t give half-credit for late work, I think most would fail.”
上个月，我从俄勒冈的一位中学教师那里收到了一封几乎一模一样的信：“大约1992年以前，每个班至少会有一名学生，什么都不肯做，差班里可能有两名。今天每个班有10到15名，我最近回头看了看80年代的旧考试题，都很难、很全面，也没有笔记可以参考。今天很少有人能通过这种考试。我们是在让班级里的学生越变越笨，这是一种无法阻挡的恶化趋势，有朝一日学生只要还有血压，就能考试及格。今天的孩子们‘本质上’并没有不同……不同之处在于，当时尽管他们不想学习，但总还是会学习，但今天不会……这是我与一名不及格的学生之间的真实对话，她的话相当坦诚：‘我知道你是个很棒的老师，可是你似乎意识不到，我每天晚上得花两个小时的时间玩Facebook，每个月要处理4000条手机短信。你怎么能指望我做这么多功课呢？’上课之前我收作业时，惯常的情况是在有35人的班级里，只能收到8到10份作业。要是我不对迟交的作业计一半的分，我想多数人都会不及格。”
Now you have some idea why Duncan gave this speech to the National Assessment Governing Board’s Education Summit for Parent Leaders. Here’s an excerpt:
现在你大概就明白为什么邓肯会在国家教育测评管理委员会(National Assessment Governing Board)的先进家长教育峰会(Education Summit for Parent Leaders)上发表这样一番演说了。讲话节选如下：
“In 2009, President Obama met with President Lee of South Korea and asked him about his biggest challenge in education. President Lee answered without hesitation: parents in South Korea were ‘too demanding.’ Even his poorest parents demanded a world-class education for their children, and he was having to spend millions of dollars each year to teach English to students in first grade, because his parents won’t let him wait until second grade. ... I [wish] our biggest challenge here in the U.S. was too many parents demanding excellent schools.
“2009年，奥巴马总统在与韩国总统李明博会面时，问他教育方面最大的挑战是什么。李总统毫不迟疑地回答道：韩国的家长‘要求太高了’。即使是最贫穷的父母，也会要求让孩子接受世界级的教育。他每年必须要花费成百上千万美元，从一年级就教学生英语，因为家长们根本等不到二年级再教……我（倒希望）美国教育最大的挑战是有太多的父母想让孩子上优秀的学校。
“I want to pose one simple question to you: Does a child in South Korea deserve a better education than your child?” Duncan continued. “If your answer is no ... then your work is cut out for you. Because right now, South Korea — and quite a few other countries — are offering students more, and demanding more, than many American districts and schools do. And the results are showing, in our kids’ learning and in their opportunities to succeed, and in staggeringly large achievement gaps in this country. Doing something about our underperformance will mean raising your voice — and encouraging parents who aren’t as engaged as you to speak up. Parents have the power to challenge educational complacency here at home. Parents have the power to ask more of their leaders — and to ask more of their kids.”
“我想向大家提一个简单的问题：韩国孩子接受的教育，就理应比你的孩子好吗？”邓肯接着说，“如果你的回答是否定的……那么你面前就摆着艰巨的工作。因为现在，韩国以及其他一些国家，为学生提供的教育和提出的要求都超出了美国的许多地区和学校。而且在孩子们的学习能力、他们获得成功的机会，以及全国巨大的成绩差距中，都已经体现出了相应的后果。要想做些事扭转欠佳的成绩，你们就必须要大声疾呼，鼓励那些还没有像你们这样投入进来的家长发出自己的声音。家长的力量能够挑战美国教育界的自满情绪。家长的力量能够要求领导人付出更多努力，也能要求孩子们付出更多努力。”
Citing Amanda Ripley’s new book — “The Smartest Kids in the World, and How They Got That Way” — Duncan said, “Amanda points a finger at you and me, as parents — not because we aren’t involved in school, but because too often, we are involved in the wrong way. Parents, she says, are happy to show up at sports events, video camera in hand, and they’ll come to school to protest a bad grade. But she writes, and I quote: ‘Parents did not tend to show up at schools demanding that their kids be assigned more challenging reading or that their kindergartners learn math while they still loved numbers.’ ... To really help our kids, we have to do so much more as parents. We have to change expectations about how hard kids should work. And we have to work with teachers and leaders to create schools that demand more from our kids.”
邓肯提到了阿曼达·里普利(Amanda Ripley)的新书《世界上最聪明的孩子：以及他们是怎么做到的》(The Smartest Kids in the World: And How They Got That Way)。他说，“阿曼达把手指指向了为人父母的你我，她之所以批评我们，并不是因为我们不参与学校事务，而是因为很多时候，我们参与学校事务的方式都错了。她说，家长乐于在体育比赛时，拿着摄像机跑到学校，分数不好时也会跑到学校抗议。但是她写道，我原话引用：‘家长并不会来到学校，要求给孩子布置更难的阅读作业，或者让正在上幼儿园的孩子趁着还对数字感兴趣，学一些数学。’……要想真正地帮助孩子们，我们作为父母就必须做更多事。对于孩子该多么努力地做功课，我们必须要调整预期。我们必须要与教师和领导人物合作，建立起要求孩子们更加努力的学校。”