WASHINGTON — President Obama said Wednesday night that he was ordering a significantly expanded military campaign against Sunni militants in the Middle East that includes American airstrikes in Syria and the deployment of nearly 500 more military advisers to Iraq. But he sought to dispel fears that the United States was embarking on a repeat of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周三晚间表示，他将下令大幅度扩大针对中东逊尼派武装分子的军事行动，包括对叙利亚境内发动空袭，并向伊拉克增派近500名军事顾问。不过，他还希望消除人们对美国即将重蹈伊拉克和阿富汗战争覆辙的担忧。
In a televised speech to the nation from the State Floor of the White House, Mr. Obama said the United States was recruiting a global coalition to “degrade and ultimately destroy” the militants, from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. He warned that the effort would require years of sustained effort.
奥巴马在白宫国事层对国民发表电视讲话时称，美国正在集结国际联盟来“削弱并最终摧毁”伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）武装分子的力量。他提醒人们，这项工作可能需要数年的持续努力。
“We will hunt down terrorists who threaten our country, wherever they are,” Mr. Obama said. “That means I will not hesitate to take action against ISIL in Syria, as well as Iraq. This is a core principle of my presidency: If you threaten America, you will find no safe haven.” ISIL is an alternative name for ISIS.
“我们将对那些威胁美国的恐怖分子穷追不舍，不论他们身在何方，”奥巴马说。“这意味着，我会毫不迟疑地对叙利亚及伊拉克的ISIL采取行动。我身为总统的一大核心原则就是：如果你对美国造成威胁，就绝无容身之处。”ISIL是ISIS的另一种称呼。
The president took pains to distinguish between the military action he was putting in motion and the two wars begun by his predecessor, President George W. Bush. He likened this campaign to the highly targeted airstrikes that the United States has carried out for several years against terrorism suspects in Yemen and Somalia, few of which have been made public.
为了区别他即将采取的军事行动与前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)所发动的两场战争，奥巴马煞费周章。他把此次打击行动类比为美国在也门和索马里开展的空袭。数年来，美国一直在对两国的恐怖主义嫌疑人采取针对性极强的空袭，但基本未予公开。
After enduring harsh criticism for saying in a news conference two weeks ago that he did not have a strategy for dealing with ISIS in Syria, Mr. Obama sketched out a plan that will involve heightened American training and arming of moderate Syrian rebels to fight the militants. Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide bases for the training of those forces.
在两周前的一次新闻发布会上，奥巴马表示自己尚未形成应对叙利亚境内的ISIS的策略，并因此受到了严厉抨击。现在，奥巴马拿出了自己的计划。根据该计划，美国将加强对叙利亚温和反对派的训练和武器供应，以对抗ISIS武装分子。沙特阿拉伯已经同意为他们提供训练基地。
The White House has asked Congress to authorize the plan to train and equip rebels — something the Central Intelligence Agency has been doing covertly and on a much smaller scale — but Mr. Obama said he had the authority necessary to expand the broader campaign.
白宫已提请国会批准为叙利亚反对派提供训练和装备的计划——中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)一直在暗中这样做，但规模要小很多。不过奥巴马表示，他拥有扩大行动规模所需的权力。
“These American forces will not have a combat mission — we will not get dragged into another ground war in Iraq,” Mr. Obama pledged, adding that the broader mission he was outlining for American military forces “will be different from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; it will not involve American combat troops fighting on foreign soil.”
“这些美国部队不会执行作战任务——我们不会卷入又一场伊拉克地面战争，”奥巴马承诺。他还说，他提出的扩大化的美军行动“将区别于伊拉克及阿富汗战争，不涉及美国作战部队在外国的土地上战斗”。
For all of Mr. Obama’s efforts to reassure the public, his remarks were a stark admission of the threat posed by the militants, whose lightning rampage through Iraq and Syria and videotaped beheading of two American journalists have reignited fears of radical terrorism.
为了安抚公众，奥巴马做出了诸多努力。尽管如此，他的言论实际上明确承认了ISIS武装分子的威胁。ISIS以闪电般的速度在伊拉克和叙利亚肆虐横行，并且公布了将两名美国记者斩首的视频。这些行为重新激起了民众对激进恐怖主义的担忧。
The president’s remarks, on the eve of the 13th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, will thrust the United States into a civil war in Syria that he had long sought to avoid, and will return the country to a significant military presence in Iraq, from which Mr. Obama withdrew the last American combat soldiers at the end of 2011.
奥巴马于9·11恐怖袭击事件13周年纪念日前夕发表的此番讲话，将使美国卷入叙利亚内战——这正是他一直试图避免出现的情况——而且还将恢复美国在伊拉克的显著军事存在。2011年末，奥巴马撤回了最后一批美军驻伊作战人员。
The president delivered his speech after a frenzied effort to line up the support of partners worldwide to combat ISIS. Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Obama called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to enlist his support for a plan to bolster the training and equipping of moderate Syrian rebels.
在发表此次讲话前，总统进行了极为积极的努力，以集结世界范围内的合作伙伴对打击ISIS予以支持。周三早些时候，奥巴马致电沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)，争取对方支持一项计划，内容是增强叙利亚温和反对派的训练和装备。
“The president and the king agreed on the need for increased training and equipping of the moderate Syrian opposition,” the White House said in an unusually extensive briefing for reporters about the call. “President Obama welcomed Saudi Arabia’s support for this program.”
“总统和国王一致认为，有必要加强叙利亚温和反对派的训练和装备，”白宫在面向记者的吹风会上介绍此次通话时说。“奥巴马总统对沙特阿拉伯支持这一计划表示了欢迎。”此次吹风会涉及的议题格外广泛。
Mr. Obama is acting against a backdrop of rapidly shifting public opinion as polls show that a large majority of Americans now favor military action against ISIS in Iraq and Syria, even as they express deep misgivings about the president’s leadership on the world stage.
奥巴马采取此番行动的背景是，舆论正在迅速发生变化。民调显示，虽然美国人对奥巴马总统在世界舞台上的领导力深感担忧，但现在大多数人支持对伊拉克和叙利亚境内的ISIS采取军事行动。
Mr. Obama is also facing political challenges on Capitol Hill, where Republicans lawmakers, initially reluctant to demand congressional authorization of military action, have begun agitating for a vote even as some Democrats warn of a stampede to war.
奥巴马也面临着国会山的政治挑战。起初不愿要求军事行动经国会授权的共和党议员，已经开始鼓动举行投票，尽管部分民主党人警告可能出现盲目参战的后果。
But Senate Democratic leaders on Wednesday prepared legislation to expressly authorize the American military to train Syrian rebels. House Republicans appeared ready to follow their lead.
不过周三，参议院民主党领导层起草了明确授权美军训练叙利亚反对派的立法。众议院的共和党人似乎也准备好追随他们的步伐。
Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, abruptly called off a vote on a stopgap spending bill that was planned for Thursday to reconsider Mr. Obama’s request that language be included authorizing the training of the rebels. The president called the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Representative Harold Rogers of Kentucky, to plead his case.
众议院原定于周四就一项临时性的开支法案举行投票。但为了重新考虑奥巴马提出的纳入授权训练叙利亚反对派的内容的请求，来自加州的众议院多数党领袖凯文·麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)紧急叫停了投票。总统致电众议院拨款委员会(Appropriations Committee)主席、来自肯塔基州的哈罗德· 罗杰斯(Harold Rogers)，陈述自己的理由。
The flurry of activity means that Congress is likely to weigh in on the looming military action before the midterm elections in eight weeks. House Republicans have called an emergency meeting for Thursday morning to discuss their options, and leaders are leaning toward a vote to express some support for a broader campaign against ISIS.
中期选举将在八周后举行，而这一系列的活动意味着，国会很可能会在中期选举前表明对日渐逼近的军事行动的态度。众议院的共和党人已安排在周四上午召开紧急会议，讨论他们的选项，而且领导层倾向于举行投票，表示支持对ISIS采取更广泛的打击。
The political atmosphere on Capitol Hill was further roiled by the sudden reappearance of former Vice President Dick Cheney, who implored Republicans to support military action and attributed the chaos in Iraq to what he called an “arbitrary and hasty” withdrawal in 2011 by Mr. Obama.
前副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)突然再次露面，让国会山的政治气氛进一步沸腾。切尼恳求共和党人支持军事行动，并将伊拉克的混乱，归咎于他所说的奥巴马2011年“武断且轻率”的撤军。
Senator Richard J. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat and a close political ally of Mr. Obama, rejected Mr. Cheney’s critique as an unwelcome echo of the Iraq war, saying, “I think we want to be careful that we don’t engage ourselves for a long period of time in a long-term war involving the vulnerability of our troops for a long period of time.”
因为令人不快地想起了伊拉克战争，切尼的论述遭到了伊利诺伊州民主党参议员、奥巴马的亲密政治盟友理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)的驳斥。“我认为我们需要注意的是，我们不会长时间参与一场会长期给我们军队带来危险的漫长战争，”德宾说。