WARSAW — President Obama met on Wednesday for the first time with the newly elected president of Ukraine and pledged American support for efforts to stabilize a country torn by corruption, economic turmoil and a violent pro-Russian insurgency broadly believed to be fomented by Moscow.
华沙——奥巴马总统(President Obama)周三首次与乌克兰新当选的总统会面，承诺美国将支持维护乌克兰的稳定，乌克兰正遭受腐败、经济动荡以及亲俄罗斯暴力叛乱的蹂躏，人们普遍认为莫斯科煽动了亲俄叛乱。
Mr. Obama used the meeting to announce that the United States would increase nonlethal aid to Ukraine with $5 million worth of night-vision goggles, body armor and communications equipment sought by its security forces. He praised President-elect Petro O. Poroshenko, saying that Mr. Poroshenko “understands the aspirations and hopes of the Ukrainian people” and represents a better future for his country.
奥巴马借这次会面的机会宣布，美国将增加给乌克兰的非致命装备援助，提供价值为500万美元（约合3120万元人民币）的夜视镜、防弹衣以及通信设备，这些都是乌克兰安全力量需要的。他称赞当选总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)说，波罗申科“了解乌克兰人民的渴望和期待”，代表着他的国家更美好的未来。
“I have been deeply impressed by his vision,” Mr. Obama told reporters at the end of the 70-minute session. “The United States is absolutely committed to standing behind the Ukrainian people, not just in the coming days and weeks but in the coming years.”
“我被他的远见深深折服，”奥巴马在为时70分钟的会面结束后告诉记者。“美国绝对致力于站在乌克兰人民一边，不仅是在未来几天和几周，而且是在未来几年。”
Mr. Obama started the second day of a four-day trip to Europe with an introduction to Mr. Poroshenko — a meeting that gave the American president a chance to take a personal measure of the leader now charged with pulling Ukraine back from the brink of political and economic collapse. Mr. Poroshenko was elected on May 25 and will be inaugurated on Saturday, with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in attendance. American officials have come away from their initial dealings with Mr. Poroshenko hopeful that he has the capacity to overhaul a dysfunctional system. A billionaire known as the chocolate king of Ukraine for his confection business, Mr. Poroshenko, a former foreign minister, speaks colloquial English and has made clear that he is determined to integrate his country into Europe.
奥巴马为期4天的欧洲之旅的第二天是以与波罗申科见面开始的，这给了奥巴马一个亲自判断乌克兰新领导人的机会，这位领导人担负着把乌克兰从政治和经济崩溃的边缘挽救回来的责任。波罗申科于5月22日当选，将在本周六宣誓就职，届时美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(JosephR. Biden Jr.)将出席就职典礼。美国官员在与波罗申科的初步接触中充满希望，认为他有能力改革一个功能失调的系统。波罗申科因其糖果业拥有乌克兰巧克力大王的盛名，他极为富有，担任过外交部长，英语口语也不错，他曾明确表示决心将乌克兰融入欧洲。
At the same time, Mr. Poroshenko has dealt with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in the past, and American officials hope he may be able to improve ties with the Kremlin. Mr. Putin has said he recognizes the choice of the Ukrainian electorate, but he has not yet scheduled a meeting with Mr. Poroshenko and denies sponsoring the separatists who have been waging a low-grade civil war in eastern Ukraine.
同时，由于波罗申科过去曾与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)打过交道，美国官员希望他也许有能力改善与克里姆林宫的关系。普京已经表示他承认乌克兰的选举结果，但还没有安排与波罗申科见面，普京否认俄罗斯支持分裂分子，这些人在乌克兰东部一直在进行一场小规模的内战。
Mr. Poroshenko talked at length with Secretary of State John Kerry during a dinner sponsored by the Polish government on Tuesday night and again on Wednesday morning. Mr. Kerry plans to follow the meetings here by sitting down in Paris on Thursday with Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia to discuss Ukraine as well as the joint Russian-American venture to remove chemical weapons from Syria.
波罗申科与国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)进行过长谈，一次是在周二晚波兰政府主办的宴会上，另一次是在周三上午。这里的会议结束后，克里计划于周四在巴黎与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)坐下来，讨论乌克兰问题，以及从叙利亚转移化学武器中的俄美合作问题。
Beyond finding a way to ease the security issues in eastern Ukraine, where violence has continued to flare, American officials said that the most important way they could aid Mr. Poroshenko is to help him put the country on a stronger economic footing and deal with its reliance on Russia for energy.
除了找到缓解不断有爆发事件暴力的乌克兰东部安全问题的办法之外，美国官员说，他们能给波罗申科提供的最重要的援助是，帮助他加强国家的经济基础，解决乌克兰对俄罗斯能源的依赖问题。
The International Monetary Fund has stepped in with a rescue package and the United States has chipped in, but Ukraine is still negotiating with Moscow over unpaid natural gas bills.
国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)已经向乌克兰提供了一个救援方案，美国也出了资金，但乌克兰仍在与莫斯科就拖欠的天然气款进行谈判。
“They’re very interested in making sure that economic support is in place,” Mr. Obama said Tuesday. “They’re very concerned about making sure that energy is in place as winter comes up.”
奥巴马周二说，“他们对确保经济援助到位很感兴趣。他们也对在冬天到来之前能保障能源供应十分担心。”
“The I.M.F. package and the international assistance, including ours, that has been forthcoming is going to be critical, I think, in these early months of the new government’s efforts to solidify its position and also to reach out to skeptics and say there’s the prospect for a better life,” Mr. Obama added. “But that has to translate into concrete action. And so we’re going to spend a lot of time on the economics of Ukraine.”
奥巴马还说，“我认为，已经开始启动的国际货币基金组织的救援方案以及国际援助，其中包括我们提供的，对这个新政府在最初几个月里巩固自己地位的努力至关重要，也对说服持怀疑态度者至关重要，对他们要说这里有更好未来的前景。但光说还不够，还必须付诸于具体行动。所以，我们会在乌克兰的经济问题上花很多时间。”
Talks on the gas dispute between Gazprom, the Russian gas company, and Ukraine’s state-owned Naftogaz were scheduled to continue Wednesday in Berlin, Reuters said, citing Russian news agencies quoting Ukraine’s energy minister.
路透社(Reuters)称，俄罗斯国家天然气公司(Gazprom)与乌克兰国有天然气公司(Naftogaz)有关天然气纠纷的谈判将于周三在柏林继续进行，路透社的消息来自俄罗斯新闻通讯社报道的乌克兰能源部长说的话。
Yuri Prodan, the minister, said the talks were expected to last until June 9, the deadline for Ukraine to pay its gas debts.
乌克兰能源部长尤里·普罗丹(Yuri Prodan)说，谈判预期会持续到6月9日，那是乌克兰必须支付天然气债款的最后时限。
After the meeting, Mr. Obama gave an address at a ceremony commemorating the 25th anniversary of the first partially free elections in Poland, which led to the eventual end of Communist rule, and he linked those momentous events to Ukraine’s own political revolution in recent months.
两人会面之后，奥巴马在庆祝波兰首次举行部分自由选举25周年的纪念活动上发表了讲话，那次选举最终导致了波兰共产党统治的结束，奥巴马把那些重大事件与乌克兰最近几个月发生的政治革命联系起来。
“The Ukrainians of today are the heirs of Solidarity — men and women like you who dared to challenge a bankrupt regime,” Mr. Obama told a crowd in Castle Square under overcast skies. “When your peaceful protests were met with an iron fist, Poles placed flowers in the shipyard gate. Today, Ukrainians honor their fallen with flowers in Independence Square.”
“今天的乌克兰人是团结工会的继承人，他们与你们一样，敢于对一个破产的政权发出挑战，”奥巴马对城堡广场上的人群说，广场上空笼罩着乌云。“当你们的和平抗议遭到铁拳镇压时，波兰人在造船厂门口摆上鲜花。如今，乌克兰人在独立广场摆上鲜花以纪念他们的献身同胞。”
He held out Poland as a model for Ukraine. Where the two countries were in similar economic positions at the end of the Cold War, Poland has become far more prosperous. Poland’s gross domestic product is nearly $14,000 per capita, compared with Ukraine’s, which, at under $3,600, is the second-lowest of 41 countries in Europe measured by I.M.F. data.
奥巴马把波兰奉为乌克兰的榜样。冷战结束时，这两个国家的经济状况相似；那以后，波兰已经变得更加繁荣。波兰的国内人均生产总值已接近14000美元，而乌克兰的则在3600美元以下，根据国际货币基金组织的数据，乌克兰国内人均生产总值在41个欧洲国家中排倒数第二。
Mr. Obama’s meeting with Mr. Poroshenko came a day after he arrived in Warsaw, where he vowed to spend as much as $1 billion to bolster training and joint exercises in Central and Eastern Europe, where many feel jittery about Russia’s revived assertiveness in the region. But Polish leaders were disappointed that Mr. Obama is not sending more troops in the short term or establishing a permanent base in the long term.
奥巴马是在抵达华沙之后的第二天与波罗申科见的面，在抵达华沙的当天，奥巴马誓言将投入高达10亿美元以加强中欧和东欧的军事训练和联合军事演习，这些地方对俄罗斯在该区域恢复坚定自信感到不安。但是，波兰领导人对奥巴马也有些失望，因为他没有增加驻军的短期计划，也没有建立永久性军事基地的长期打算。