WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama made clear on Wednesday that he will not go silent after leaving office later this week, promising to speak out whenever he feels America’s “core values” are threatened.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周三表示，在本周晚些时候卸任之后，他不会保持沉默。他承诺，只要觉得美国的“核心价值观”受到威胁，他就会站出来说话。
While he said he was looking forward to taking a break from politics, Obama said at the final news conference of his presidency that certain major issues would be important enough to draw him out of retirement and back into the national conversation after President-elect Donald Trump takes over on Friday.
虽然奥巴马表示希望暂时从政界引退一段时间，他也在自己的最后一次新闻发布会上表示，候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在本周五接任之后，如果出现的某些大问题太重要，他会重新回到全国性的对话中。
“There’s a difference between that normal functioning of politics and certain issues or certain moments where I think our core values may be at stake,” he said.
“政坛的正常运行，与在我看来可能对我们的核心价值观造成威胁的某些问题和某些时刻之间，是存在差异的。”他说。
In highlighting instances when he would feel compelled to engage in public debate in the future, Obama signaled that he intended to follow a different course than his predecessor, former President George W. Bush, who largely withdrew from public life eight years ago saying his successor deserved his silence. Obama has expressed respect and appreciation for Bush’s approach, but has told friends that he did not intend to remain a mute bystander to the dismantling of important democratic ideals that he championed for eight years.
通过强调他未来不得不进行公开辩论的那些情况，奥巴马示意他打算采取与他的前任、前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)不同的做法。前总统布什在八年前基本上退出了公共活动，称继任者值得他保持沉默。奥巴马对布什的这种态度表示了尊重和赞赏，但却告诉朋友们，如果看到他八年来所捍卫的重要民主理想遭到破坏，他并不打算成为缄默的旁观者。
Obama used his final meeting with reporters in the White House briefing room to defend his decision a day earlier to commute the prison sentence of Chelsea Manning, the former Army intelligence analyst convicted of leaking American military and diplomatic secrets in 2010. Dismissing concerns that he was sending the wrong message to others who then might divulge classified information, Obama pointed out that Manning had already served seven years in prison.
在白宫的新闻发布厅与记者的最后一次碰面中，奥巴马为自己一天前给切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)减刑的决定做出了辩护。切尔西·曼宁曾是陆军情报分析师，在2010年因泄露美国军事和外交秘密被判刑。有人说奥巴马此举是在向可能泄露机密信息的人发送错误消息，奥巴马对此不以为然，称曼宁已经在监狱里关了七年。
“First of all, let’s be clear,” he said. “Chelsea Manning has served a tough prison sentence. So the notion that the average person who was thinking about disclosing vital classified information would think that it goes unpunished, I don’t think would get that impression from the sentence that Chelsea Manning has served.”
“首先，我们要弄清楚的是，切尔西·曼宁已经服过一段重刑。因此，如果说有人考虑曝光重要机密信息，觉得这么做不会受到惩罚，我认为切尔西·曼宁已经服过刑这件事并不会让人产生这种印象。”他说。
He added: “I feel very comfortable that justice has been served.”
他还说：“正义得到了声张，我感到非常满意。”
Obama leaves with rising approval ratings but an eight-year legacy that is already under attack even before Trump is inaugurated. He declined to comment on the decision of dozens of congressional Democrats to boycott Trump’s inauguration. “All I know is I’m going to be there,” he said. “So’s Michelle.”
奥巴马即将卸任之际，他的支持率正在上升，但是，即便在特朗普就任之前，他八年来的政治遗产就已经遭到了攻击。有几十个国会民主党人表示不会参加特朗普的就职典礼，对此奥巴马拒绝予以置评。“我知道的就是我会出席典礼，”他说。“米歇尔也会。”