WASHINGTON — President Obama stepped into the space on Wednesday where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once stood, summoning his iconic dream of a colorblind society in a celebration of a half-century of progress and a call to arms for the next generation.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周三走进小马丁·路德·金牧师(Martin Luther King Jr.)曾经站立的地方，唤起其渴望无种族歧视社会的标志性梦想，以庆祝半个世纪的进步，同时号召下一代继续努力。
On a day of overcast skies and misty rain, tens of thousands of Americans — black, white and every shade in between — returned to the site of Dr. King’s “I Have a Dream” speech to listen to the nation’s first black president pay tribute to the pioneers who paved the way for his own ascension to the heights of American government.
在这个阴天且时而下着蒙蒙小雨的日子里，数万名黑、白以及各种肤色的美国人重返金博士发表《我有一个梦想》(I Have a Dream)演说的地方，聆听美国首位黑人总统向先驱们致敬，这些先驱为奥巴马得以升任美国政府的最高职位铺平了道路。
“Because they kept marching, America changed,” the president said as Dr. King’s family watched. “Because they marched, a civil rights law was passed. Because they marched, a voting rights law was signed. Because they marched, doors of opportunity and education swung open so their daughters and sons could finally imagine a life for themselves beyond washing somebody else’s laundry or shining somebody else’s shoes.
在金博士家人的注视下，奥巴马说，“因为他们坚持前进，美国有了改变。因为他们前进，一项民权法得以通过。因为他们前进，一项投票权法得以签署。因为他们前进，机会与教育之门敞开了，他们的子女终于能够想象其他的生活，不再只是帮别人洗衣擦鞋。
“Because they marched,” he added, “city councils changed and state legislatures changed and Congress changed and, yes, eventually, the White House changed.”
“因为他们前进，市镇议会有了改变，州议会有了改变，国会有了改变，的确，白宫最终也有了改变，”他补充说。
The symbolic journey from Dr. King to Mr. Obama on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial animated the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom more than any oratory. While Mr. Obama’s line about the White House changing was his only reference to his unique place in history, the power of his presence was lost on no one.
在林肯纪念堂台阶上的从金博士到奥巴马的象征性历程，给“为工作和自由向华盛顿进军”(March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom)的50周年纪念赋予的意义，比任何慷慨激昂的演说都更生动。关于白宫改变的那句话，是奥巴马在演讲中唯一一次提及自己特殊的历史地位，尽管如此，每个人都感受到了他的出现所具有的力量。
But it also underscored the challenge to a movement to reframe its mission for a new era. With an African-American in the Oval Office, it is harder to argue about political empowerment than it was in 1963, and much of the day’s message centered on tackling persistent economic disparity, as well as newer frontiers of civil rights like equality for gay men and lesbians.
然而，这也突显了民权运动所面临的挑战，那就是要重塑其新时代的使命。在一位非裔美国人主持白宫椭圆形办公室之时，提出政治赋权的主张比1963年时更难，因此，当天的许多声音围绕的是应对持续存在的经济不平等，以及平等对待同性恋群体等方面的民权新前沿。
Several of the speakers, including former President Jimmy Carter, tied the historic nature of the event to controversies of the moment, including the Trayvon Martin case, New York’s police frisking policy and the Supreme Court ruling this summer that overturned part of the Voting Rights Act. “I think we know how Dr. King would have reacted,” Mr. Carter said.
包括前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)在内的数名演讲者将庆祝活动的历史性质与当前的争议话题联系了起来，比如特雷翁·马丁(Trayvon Martin)案、纽约警察的拦截盘查政策，以及最高法院今夏推翻《投票权法》(Voting Rights Act)部分条款的判决。“我想，大家知道金博士会作何反应，”卡特说。
Yet former President Bill Clinton said that for all of the current challenges, Americans have never had more opportunity to shape the future if they can put aside their differences. “It is time to stop complaining and put our shoulders against the stubborn gates holding the American people back,” he said.
不过，前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)表示，尽管当前面临种种挑战，但如果将分歧放到一边，美国民众仍比以往任何时候都拥有更多的塑造未来的机会。他说，“到了停止抱怨的时候了，让我们众志成城，一起撞开阻止美国民众前进的沉重大门吧。”
The three presidents effectively reflected three eras in the civil rights movement: Mr. Carter, the white Southerner who appointed more African-Americans to high-ranking positions than did any of his predecessors; Mr. Clinton, who was so attuned to race issues that he was called the country’s first black president; and Mr. Obama, who really is the first and who represents the generation that came of age after the battles of the past.
三位总统实际上代表了民权运动的三个时期：卡特是来自南方的白人，他当总统时任命的政府高级非裔官员数量超过了其所有的前任总统；克林顿对种族问题的理解极为深刻，以至于他被称为美国第一位黑人总统；奥巴马是真正的第一位黑人总统，他代表了在过去的斗争之后成长起来的一代人。
Hillary Rodham Clinton, who may seek to be the next president, did not attend, and aides declined to explain why. But on hand were Caroline Kennedy and Lynda Johnson Robb, daughters of the two presidents most associated with civil rights, as well as a phalanx of celebrities, like Oprah Winfrey, Bill Russell, Jamie Foxx and Forest Whitaker.
可能寻求竞选下届总统的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)没有出席庆祝活动，其助手婉言拒绝对此做出解释。不过，到场的有与民权运动最紧密相连的两位总统的女儿卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)和林达·约翰逊·罗布(Lynda Johnson Robb)，以及奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)、比尔·拉塞尔(Bill Russell)、杰米·福克斯(Jamie Foxx)和福里斯特·惠特克(Forest Whitaker)等大批名人。
Some lions of the civil rights era were there, including Representative John Lewis, former Ambassador Andrew Young and the Rev. Joseph Lowery — grayer, thicker, slower, but stirring emotions of their youth. “We ain’t going back,” Dr. Lowery declared. “We ain’t going back. We’ve come too far, marched too long, prayed too hard, wept too bitterly, bled too profusely and died too young to let anybody turn back the clock on our journey to justice.”
民权运动的一些重要人物也在现场，比如众议员约翰·刘易斯(John Lewis)、曾任大使的安德鲁·扬(Andrew Young)，以及牧师约瑟夫·洛厄里(Joseph Lowery)。他们头发已经花白、身体发了福、行动也慢了，但仍激发着年轻时的情感。洛厄里宣布，“我们不会后退。我们决不后退。我们已走了太远的路，前进了太长的距离，祈祷了太多次、哭得太痛苦、流了太多血、死了太多年轻人，我们不能允许任何人迫使我们在通往正义的道路上倒退。”
Although Republican lawmakers were critical to the passage of civil rights legislation in the 1960s, no prominent party leaders were on stage on Wednesday. The two living former Republican presidents, George Bush and George W. Bush, both cited health in missing the occasion. Party leaders issued statements, including the younger Mr. Bush and Mitt Romney.
尽管共和党议员对上世纪60年代民权立法的通过起了至关重要的作用，但该党领导层无人出现在周三的讲台上。在世的两名共和党前总统乔治·布什(George Bush)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)均以健康问题为由缺席了这次活动。不过，多名该党的领袖人物发表了声明，包括小布什和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)。
At age 52, Mr. Obama is too young to remember the march, and, raised in Hawaii as the son of a white mother and a father from Kenya, his own connection to the civil rights movement is more distant than, say, that of his wife, Michelle, whose parents grew up in segregated America. But he clearly felt the pressure to live up to the moment on Wednesday, noting that “no one can match King’s brilliance.”
奥巴马今年52岁，他太年轻，不可能有那场大游行的记忆。他在夏威夷长大，母亲是白人，父亲来自肯尼亚，因此他与民权运动的联系不如许多其他人的密切，比如他的妻子米歇尔，因为她的父母都是在种族隔离时期的美国长大的。在周三，他明显感到有压力，要不辜负这一历史时刻。他指出，“没有人能比得上金的辉煌。”
More sober than stirring until near the end, when he adopted more of a preacher’s cadence, Mr. Obama used his 29-minute address, nearly twice as long as Dr. King’s original, to argue for a renewed mission to ensure that opportunity is available not just for a few but for the many, for “the black custodian,” “the white steelworker” and “the immigrant dishwasher.”
他的讲演更严肃认真而非震撼人心，只是在临近结尾时，他用了像布道者那样的更加抑扬顿挫的语调。奥巴马的讲演长达29分钟，是金博士当年演说长度的两倍，他在讲话中提出，要为运动注入新的使命，以确保机会不只是少数人有，而是多数人都应该有，不论是“黑人清洁工”、“白人炼钢工”，还是“移民洗碗工”。
“The arc of the moral universe may bend towards justice,” the president said, adopting a line from Dr. King, “but it doesn’t bend on its own. To secure the gains this country has made requires constant vigilance, not complacency.”
奥巴马套用金博士的一句话说，“道德的苍穹也许终将落向正义，但它不会自动那样落。守护美国已经实现的梦想需要长期的警惕而不是自满。”
Those old enough to remember the march marveled at a black president’s standing where Dr. King had.
那些年龄大到足能记起那场游行的人，为一位黑人总统站在金博士当年站的地方而感慨不已。
“If you say that’s not the fruition of the dream, I don’t know what is,” said Bill Carr, a licensed clinical social worker from Montclair, N.J., who is black.
新泽西蒙特克莱的一位黑人持证临床社工比尔·卡尔(Bill Carr)说，“如果这不是那个梦想成了真，那我就不知道什么叫梦想成真了。”
Nearby stood Bill Tate, a retired engineer who is white and who wore a button from the original march, when he was a student at the University of Maryland. “Who would have guessed 50 years ago that in less than 50 years we would re-elect — re-elect! — a black president?” he asked. “No one can deny that we’ve made some progress.”
在他旁边站着的是白人退休工程师比尔·塔特(Bill Tate)，他带着当年那场游行的徽章，当时他是马里兰大学(University of Maryland)的一名学生。他问到，“50年前，谁能想到在不到50年之后我们居然会让一名黑人两次当举总统，两次？没有人能否认我们已经取得了一定的进步。”
Among the witnesses to that progress was Gil Lyons, who worked for the Postal Service at the time and was told his pay would be docked if he attended the march. Now 82, he works as a Park Service interpreter, teaching visitors about national monuments, including the new King Memorial.
吉尔·莱昂斯(Gil Lyons)便是这一进步的见证者之一。当年他在美国邮政局工作，被告知如果参加游行就会被扣工资。现在他已82岁，在公园管理局做讲解员，向游客介绍首都的国家纪念性建筑，包括新建的马丁·路德·金纪念碑。