WASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday gave final approval to legislation granting President Obama enhanced power to negotiate major trade agreements with Asia and Europe, sending the president’s biggest end-of-term legislative priority to the White House for his signature.
华盛顿——周三，参议院最后批准了一项法案，赋予奥巴马总统更大的权力，来与亚洲和欧洲就重要贸易协议进行谈判。此举意味着奥巴马最后任期的首要立法提案被转交到白宫，由他签署。
Senators then approved a bill that provides assistance to workers displaced by international trade accords, attaching it to a popular African trade measure that will go to the House for a final vote Thursday morning. House Democrats signaled they would support the measure, which they had voted down two weeks before.
随后，参议员还批准了一项法案，将向因为国际贸易协定而被迫离开工作岗位的劳工提供帮助，它将与一项颇受欢迎的非洲贸易法案捆绑在一起，于周四上午被移交到众议院接受最后表决。众议院民主党人已经表示他们将支持该法案，而两周之前，他们刚投票否决了它。
The burst of legislative action secured a hard-fought victory for Mr. Obama and the Republican congressional leadership. It kept on track an ambitious agenda to complete a broad trade agreement joining 12 countries — from Canada and Chile to Australia and Japan — into a web of rules governing trans-Pacific commerce. Negotiators will also move forward on an accord with Europe, knowing that any agreement over the next six years will be subject to a straight up-or-down vote, but cannot be amended or filibustered in Congress.
这一连串立法行动，意味着奥巴马和共和党国会领导层获得了一场来之不易的胜利，它令一项庞大的议程走上了正轨：将从加拿大到智利、从澳大利亚到日本的12个国家纳入一套管理跨太平洋贸易的规则。谈判人员还将推进一项与欧洲的协定，因为他们知道接下来六年的任何协议都将直接被通过或否决，国会无权对其进行修订，也无法再实施拖延战术。
The Senate cleared the so-called trade promotion bill 60 to 38, with 13 Democrats joining all but five Republicans. After the Senate voted 76 to 22 to cut off debate on the worker aid and African trade bill, senators agreed to pass it by voice vote.
参议院以60比38的投票结果批准了所谓的贸易促进法案，对法案表示支持的共有13名民主党人，只有五名共和党人反对。参议院以76比22的投票结果停止了针对劳工援助法案和非洲贸易法案的争论，参议员同意用口头表决来通过这一法案。
“This is a critical day for our country,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who called trade promotion authority “the most important bill we’ll do this year.”
犹他州共和党参议员、参议院财政委员会(Senate Finance Committee)主席奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)说，“这对于我国是至关重要的一天。”他说贸易促进法案是“我们今年要通过的最重要的法案”。
“It’s taken a while to get here, longer than many of us would have liked,” he added, “but anything worth doing takes effort.”
“走到今天这一步花了不少时间，我们中很多人认为不该这么久，”他补充道，“但是任何值得做的事都需要花工夫。”
Final passage does not guarantee the president’s completion of the more imminent Trans-Pacific Partnership, seen as a central element of the White House’s strategic shift toward Asia. Negotiations with Europe over the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership have further to go.
法案的最终通过无法保证奥巴马能完成更迫在眉睫的跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP），它被视作白宫“转向亚洲”战略的核心要素。与欧洲关于“跨大西洋贸易与投资伙伴关系”(Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership)的谈判也还有更长的路要走。
But the Obama administration and its trading partners saw approval of fast-track negotiating power as a vital prerequisite. Countries like Japan and Australia refused to make the politically precarious compromises necessary to complete the trade deals until they knew that Congress could not amend the final agreement and ask for additional negotiations.
不过，奥巴马政府及其贸易伙伴认为批准“快速通道”谈判权是一个重要的先决条件。在确定美国国会无权修订最后的协议，或要求进行其他谈判之前，日本和澳大利亚等国拒绝作出完成这些贸易协议所必需的、有政治风险的让步。
At the same time, the trade promotion bill, hashed out over months of arduous negotiations, adds new hurdles to completion. Under the legislation, the president may not even sign a final agreement for two months, and Congress cannot consider the deal for two additional months while the public gets its first complete look at the accord. That delay will most likely push any consideration of the Pacific accord well into the presidential election season, a difficult political environment to consider the largest trade agreement since the North American Free Trade Agreement.
同时，这项经过数月的艰苦谈判才拟定的贸易促进法案，给TPP的完成增添了新的障碍。根据该法案，总统可能过两个月也不能签署一项最终协议，国会还要在协议向公众发布两个月后才能考虑是否认可它。这种推迟进程的做法，很可能会使针对太平洋协定的所有考虑推迟到总统竞选季；这样的政治环境，对于考虑自《北美自由贸易协定》(North American Free Trade Agreement)以来规模最大的贸易协议将比较困难。
A separate bill bolstering trade enforcement rules — set for final passage in July — includes measures added late in the process to win conservative support, further complicating the president’s job. They include a provision prohibiting any trade agreement from forcing action by the United States on climate change and another forbidding trade accords from including provisions easing immigration and visa rules.
另一项加强贸易执行准则的法案——将于7月获得最后通过——包括一些后来加入的、旨在赢得保守派支持的举措，从而加剧了奥巴马工作的复杂性。其中一个条款禁止贸易协议强迫美国对气候变化采取行动，另一个则禁止贸易协定包括任何会放松移民和签证规定的条款。
Senior Democrats said they would now focus their pressure on the Trans-Pacific Partnership itself.
资深民主党人表示，他们现在要把施压的重点放在TPP本身上。
“My responsibility is to have a unified caucus and try to focus on what we have to do next, which is to make sure T.P.P. is a great agreement,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, who formally announced her support for the worker aid measure in a letter to the House Democratic Caucus on Wednesday. “There’s a lot of work to be done.”
“我的责任就是保证党内团结，并努力把注意力集中在我们下一步的行动，即确保TPP是一项极佳的协议，” 加利福尼亚州众议员、众议院少数党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)表示。周三，她在写给众议院民主党党团(House Democratic Caucus)的信中正式宣布自己支持劳工援助法案。“还有大量工作有待完成。”
Democrats remain bitter about the turn of events since June 12, when they thought they had won.
自6月12日以来，事情发生了转变，民主党人对此至今耿耿于怀。当时，他们还以为自己已经取得了胜利。
The votes were an enormous victory not only for the president and Republican leaders but also for big businesses, agriculture interests, Hollywood and Silicon Valley, which pressed hard to keep the trade agenda moving. Global commerce has bolstered corporate profitability and expanded markets for farmers, but the American market remains more open than many of the United States’ trading partners.
此次的投票，不仅对于总统和共和党领导层是一次巨大的胜利，对于大企业、农业利益团体、好莱坞和硅谷也是如此。这些团体都曾积极地推动这项贸易议程的发展。全球贸易提高了企业效益，也为农民扩大了市场，但是与美国的许多贸易伙伴相比，美国市场的开放度仍然更高。
“Our leaders in Washington proved they could tune out the populists and demagogues of the left and the right and take action on an important measure to put our economy back on track,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)会长托马斯·J·多诺霍(Thomas J. Donohue)说，“我们在华盛顿的领导人证明，他们能够消除民粹主义者以及左派和右派的煽动分子，为使我们的经济重回正轨采取重要举措。”
It was also a defeat for environmental groups, liberal activists, some Tea Party conservatives, and most of all, organized labor, which spent millions of dollars and enormous organizational muscle pressuring lawmakers and trying to kill the trade measure. Unions strongly maintain that since the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993, trade agreements have sent millions of high-paying manufacturing jobs overseas while depressing wages at home.
对于环保组织、自由派活动人士、一些茶党(Tea Party)保守派，尤其是有组织的劳工来说，这是一次失败。他们投入了大量资金，并动用了极大的组织力量来对议员施压，尝试扼杀这个贸易举措。各工会强烈表示，自1993年签订《北美自由贸易协定》以来，贸易协议已经把数以百万计的高薪制造业就业机会送到了海外，同时还压低了国内工资。