WASHINGTON — Former President Barack Obama will return to his adopted home on Monday for his first public event since leaving the White House, holding a conversation with six young people in front of an audience at the University of Chicago.
华盛顿——前总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)将于周一回到他的第二故乡，在芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)与六个年轻人举行公开对话。这将是他离开白宫后的首个公开活动。
Mr. Obama has spent the three months since Inauguration Day on an extended vacation even as his staff begins setting up an office in Washington and planning continues on his presidential library in Chicago. He is also starting to work on a memoir.
总统就职日(Inauguration Day)之后的这三个月里，奥巴马度过了一个漫长的假期。但在此期间，他的工作人员开始在华盛顿设立办公室，在芝加哥创建他的总统图书馆的计划仍在继续。奥巴马也即将开始创作回忆录。
But on Monday, the former president will begin a series of public appearances in the United States and Europe.
但周一，这位前总统将开启在美国和欧洲的一系列公开露面。
Aides have said Mr. Obama does not intend to use his platform to directly challenge President Trump, despite his successor’s aggressive efforts to reverse many of Mr. Obama’s legacy-making accomplishments.
助手称，奥巴马无意利用自己的平台直接挑战特朗普总统，尽管他的这位继任者采取了多项咄咄逼人的举动，试图废除奥巴马的多个被视为政治遗产的成就。
But Monday’s event may be an example of the pressure the former president will be under to speak out.
但周一的活动可能是这位前总统在公开发声时所面临压力的一个例子。
Mr. Obama wants to talk with the young people onstage at the elite school about civic engagement, community organizing and the importance of not withdrawing from the challenges facing society.
奥巴马希望在台上和这所精英学校的年轻人讨论公民参与、社区组织和不逃避社会面临的挑战的重要性。
But the young people will be free to ask whatever they want, and they might choose to press the former president on topics like immigration, climate change or racial justice — all areas where anything Mr. Obama says is likely to be interpreted as a critique of Mr. Trump.
但这些年轻人会问自己想问的问题，他们也许会选择在移民、气候变化或种族平等这样的话题上向这位前总统施压。在这些问题上，奥巴马的任何表述都可能会被解读成对特朗普的批评。
And they might even ask him the question directly: What does he think of the way Mr. Trump is leading the country after eight years of the Obama administration?
他们甚至会直接问他：在八年的奥巴马政府结束后，他对特朗普领导该国的方式怎么看？
That would present a tricky moment for Mr. Obama, who has publicly and privately expressed a deep respect for the way his predecessor, President George W. Bush, avoided criticizing him.
对奥巴马来说，这将是一个棘手的时刻。他在公开场合和私下里都对前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统表达过深深的敬意，避免指责他。
But to accomplish that, Mr. Bush largely withdrew from the national stage. Mr. Obama has made it clear to his close advisers that he does not intend to follow that path, which makes avoiding the topic of Mr. Trump’s administration more difficult.
但成就这一点的是，布什基本上退出了全国性舞台。奥巴马明确向亲信表示，他不打算效仿布什。这增加了避开有关特朗普政府话题的难度。
Mr. Obama’s choice of Chicago as the place for his return to public life will take him back to the South Side, where he began as a community organizer decades ago.
奥巴马选择芝加哥作为他回归公共生活的地方，将把他带回芝加哥南区(South Side)。几十年前，他正是在那里以社区组织者的身份开启了自己的职业生涯。
In his final speech as president in January, Mr. Obama also traveled to Chicago and talked about the effect the city had on him as a young man. “It was on these streets where I witnessed the power of faith, and the quiet dignity of working people in the face of struggle and loss,” Mr. Obama said on Jan. 10. “This is where I learned that change only happens when ordinary people get involved, get engaged and come together to demand it.”
今年1月最后一次以总统的身份发表演讲时，奥巴马去的也是芝加哥。当时，他谈到了该市对年轻时的自己的影响。“正是在这些街道上，我看到了信心的力量和劳动人民面对困难和失败时表现出的无声的庄重，”奥巴马1月10日说。“正是在这里，我明白了只有当普通人参与进来，共同提出要求，改变才会发生。”
Advisers said Mr. Obama’s conversation on Monday is likely to echo many of the same themes he talked about in that farewell address, including a plea that people not take democracy for granted.
顾问称，奥巴马周一的对话可能会重复他在那场告别演说中提到的多个主题，包括呼吁民众不要认为民主是理所当然的。
“If you’re tired of arguing with strangers on the internet, try to talk with one in real life,” Mr. Obama said in the speech. “If something needs fixing, lace up your shoes and do some organizing. If you’re disappointed by your elected officials, grab a clipboard, get some signatures and run for office yourself.
“如果你厌倦了在网上和陌生人争辩，就尝试和现实生活中的人交流，”奥巴马在那次演讲中说。“如果某件事需要解决，就系好鞋带，做一些组织工作。如果对你的民选官员感到失望，就拿上带夹子的写字板，征集签名，然后自己竞选。
“Show up, dive in, stay at it. Sometimes you’ll win. Sometimes you’ll lose,” he said, mentioning Mr. Trump only once. “More often than not, your faith in America — and in Americans — will be confirmed.”
“站出来，参与进来，并坚持下去。有时候你会赢，有时候你会输，”他说道，并且只提到了特朗普一次。“但通常，你对美国和对美国人民的信心会更加坚定。”