CAPE TOWN, South Africa — In the foreword to Nelson Mandela’s 2010 book of letters, President Obama wrote that “even when little sunlight shined into that Robben Island cell, he could see a better future — one worthy of sacrifice.”
奥巴马总统在为纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)于2010年出版的个人书信集作序时写道，“即使在罗本岛不见天日的牢房里，他还是能看到更美好的未来——一个值得去献身的未来。”
On Sunday, Mr. Obama stood in that same tiny prison cell — now a monument to Mr. Mandela, South Africa’s first black president — and showed his wife and two daughters the place where Mr. Mandela spent 18 of his 27 years behind bars during his long campaign to end his country’s policies of racial apartheid and oppression.
周日，奥巴马站在上述的那间牢房里——这间牢房如今被用来纪念南非的第一任黑人总统曼德拉——向他的妻子和两个女儿展现这个曼德拉曾经被囚禁的地方。在为结束该国的种族隔离和压迫政策而发起的长期运动中，曼德拉在这间牢房里度过了其27年牢狱生涯的18个年头。
Later, Mr. Obama again invoked the legacy of Mr. Mandela, 94, who remained in critical condition at a Pretoria, South Africa, hospital, during a speech to the African people he delivered from the University of Cape Town.
之后，奥巴马在开普敦大学(University of Cape Town)向非洲人民发表演讲时再次提到了曼德拉的政治遗产。现年94岁的曼德拉如今仍在南非比勒陀利亚的一家医院里接受治疗，生命垂危。
In the speech, he called Mr. Mandela the ultimate testament to the process of peaceful change and said his daughters better understood his legacy now. “Seeing them stand within the walls that once surrounded Nelson Mandela, I knew this was an experience they would never forget,” Mr. Obama said.
在演讲中，奥巴马称曼德拉是南非和平演变进程的终极证明，他还称自己的两个女儿如今能更好地理解曼德拉的成就。“看她们站在这间曾经囚禁过纳尔逊·曼德拉的牢房里，我知道这是她们永生难忘的经历，”奥巴马说。
Using the clan name that many people fondly use in referring to Mr. Mandela, the president said his daughters appreciate “the sacrifices that Madiba and others made for freedom.”
奥巴马在演讲中用其宗族名称来称呼曼德拉，很多人都喜爱使用这一名称。总统说，他的女儿们感激“马迪巴(Madiba)和其他人士为争取自由所做出的牺牲”。 
The symbolism of Mr. Obama’s visit was impossible to miss: America’s first black president, whose wife is a descendant of African slaves, said this week that he might not have been elected were it not for Mr. Mandela’s ability to endure imprisonment and emerge to take power without bitterness or recrimination.
不难看出奥巴马总统此次来访的象征意义：奥巴马是美国的第一任黑人总统，他的妻子是非洲奴隶的后代。奥巴马在本周表示，若不是因为曼德拉能忍受囚禁，并能在后来掌权时毫无怨念或不去反责，他可能就不会被选为美国总统。
In a visitor’s book in a prison courtyard, Mr. Obama wrote that his family was “humbled to stand where men of such courage faced down injustice and refused to yield.”
在监狱院子里的来访者留言簿上，奥巴马写道，他们一家“站在这间牢房里，感到十分谦卑，因为有很多勇士曾在这间牢房里直面不公并拒绝让步。”
“The world is grateful for the heroes of Robben Island,” he added, “who remind us that no shackles or cells can match the strength of the human spirit.”
“全世界都对罗本岛的英雄们心怀感激，”他又说，“这些英雄提醒我们，没有枷锁或牢房能匹敌人类精神的力量。”
For Mr. Obama, the visit to Robben Island, just off Cape Town, was part of an African trip that has been overshadowed to some extent by concerns about Mr. Mandela’s health. Instead of visiting the former leader, Mr. Obama chose to meet instead with Mr. Mandela’s family on Saturday, joining many in this nation who are passing on their prayers for his recovery.
对奥巴马来说，此次访问罗本岛（位于开普敦附近的海域）是总统非洲之行的一部分，但此行在一定程度上被各界对曼德拉健康状况的担忧蒙上阴影。奥巴马没有前去看望这名前领导人，而是选择在周六和曼德拉的家人见面，并和该国的很多民众一起为曼德拉的康复而祈祷。
Mr. Obama had been to Robben Island before, as a senator. In his foreword to Mr. Mandela’s book, “Conversations With Myself,” he recalled trying to “transport myself back to those days when President Mandela was still Prisoner 466/64 — a time when the success of his struggle was by no means a certainty.”
奥巴马之前曾以参议员身份参观过罗本岛。在他为曼德拉的《与自己对话》一书所作的序言中，他回忆起自己试图“回到466/64号囚犯曼德拉在这里度过的那段岁月——那时他的斗争是否能够取得胜利还是个未知数。”
He also toured the limestone quarry where Mr. Mandela and other political prisoners were forced to work. Sea birds squawked as Mr. Obama talked to his daughters, Malia and Sasha, about the history of the prison island, and of the role it played in the political movement of nonviolence started by Gandhi.
他还参观了曼德拉和其他政治犯被迫劳作的石灰岩采石场。在海鸟的鸣叫声中，奥巴马向女儿玛利亚(Malia)和萨莎(Sasha)讲述了这座监狱岛的历史，以及该岛在甘地(Gandhi)发起的非暴力政治运动中所扮演的角色。
“One thing you guys might not be aware of is that the idea of political nonviolence first took root here in South Africa because Mahatma Gandhi was a lawyer here in South Africa,” the president told them. “When he went back to India the principles ultimately led to Indian independence, and what Gandhi did inspired Martin Luther King.”
“你们可能不知道的一件事是，政治非暴力的理念最早生根于南非，因为莫罕达斯·甘地(Mahatma Gandhi)曾在南非当过律师，”总统告诉他们。“当他回到印度后，这些理念最终带领印度获得独立，而甘地的行动则激发了马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King)。”
The Obamas crowded into the tiny cell overlooking the courtyard where Mr. Mandela spent nearly two decades. Inside the sterile, cinder block cell was a toilet, a thin mattress with pillows and a brown blanket. A single window looking into the courtyard has thick, white bars, matching the ones on the door to the cellblock’s hallway.
奥巴马一家挤进了曼德拉度过了将近20年的小牢房，从这间牢房里可以俯瞰院子。在这个空空如也、煤渣砖砌成牢房里有一个便器、一床薄薄的床垫和枕头以及一条棕色的毯子。一扇窗户面向院子，上面装有粗大的白色铁栏，和通向监狱过道的门上的铁栏相呼应。
Mr. Obama lingered in the cell by himself. Photographers captured the moment as he stared past the bars to the bright blue sky and sun shining down on the courtyard. He made no comments as he joined his family.
奥巴马单独在监狱里待了一会儿。摄影师捕捉到了他望向铁栏外蓝天的那一瞬间，整个院子沐浴着阳光。他不发一言，走到了自己的家人中间。
In his speech in Cape Town a few hours later, Mr. Obama announced plans to create American programs to help African nations develop more sustainable food programs and better health care networks, and to invest $9 billion to help double access to reliable electricity in sub-Saharan Africa. 
几小时后，奥巴马在开普敦发表演讲，他宣布了创建美国项目的计划，以帮助非洲国家发展更可持续的食品计划和更好的医疗网络，并投资90亿美元来帮助撒哈拉以南非洲地区将可以获得稳定电力的地区扩大一倍。
White House officials have declined to comment about whether Mr. Obama’s travel schedule will change in the event of Mr. Mandela’s death. But it is widely expected that the president would return to South Africa for the funeral.
白宫官员拒绝透露，奥巴马的行程是否会因曼德拉去世而改变。但人们普遍预计总统会回到南非参加葬礼。
South Africans are preparing themselves for that moment, with impromptu gatherings in front of Mr. Mandela’s home and at the hospital where he is being treated.
南非人正在为那一刻做准备，人们自发地聚集在曼德拉的住宅和他接受治疗的医院前。
At a dinner with President Jacob Zuma of South Africa on Saturday night, Mr. Obama recited from the 19th-century poem “Invictus” that Mr. Mandela would read to other Robben Island prisoners.
在周六晚上和南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)进餐时，奥巴马吟诵了一段19世纪的诗作《不可征服》(Invictus)，曼德拉会把这首诗读给罗本岛上其他囚犯听。
“It matters not how strait the gate/How charged with punishments the scroll,” Mr. Obama read. “I am the master of my fate:/I am the captain of my soul.”
“无论命运之门多么狭窄，也无论承受怎样的惩罚，”奥巴马读道，“我，是我命运的主宰；我，是我灵魂的统帅。”