NEW DELHI — President Obama swept aside past friction with India on Sunday to report progress on climate change and civilian nuclear power cooperation as he sought to transform a fraught relationship marked by suspicion into an enduring partnership linking the world’s oldest and largest democracies.
新德里——周日，奥巴马总统把美国与印度之间以往的摩擦搁置一边，宣布两国在气候变化和民用核能合作领域取得了进展。他一直寻求改变两国之间充满猜疑的不良关系，建立持久的伙伴关系，把世界上历史最久的和人口最多的两个民主国家连接在一起。
Kicking off a three-day visit rich in symbolism and pageantry, Mr. Obama emerged from hours of discussions with his counterpart, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with what he called “a breakthrough understanding” to finally overcome years of deadlock that have prevented American firms from building nuclear reactors here, a key goal of the trip.
奥巴马开始了为期三天的、充满了象征意义和盛大排场的访问。与印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)经过几个小时的交谈之后，奥巴马宣布，他们达成了“突破性的谅解”，两国同意最终克服数年来阻碍美国公司在印度建核反应堆的僵局。这也是奥巴马此行的重要目的。
The president and Mr. Modi also renewed a 10-year defense pact, agreed to joint military hardware production and resolved to work together to reduce the threat of greenhouse gas emissions on the world’s climate. But the climate agreement included mostly minor initiatives compared to the deal Mr. Obama made with China last November, and it was unclear whether American industrial firms would agree the nuclear pact offered sufficient protection from potential liability in the case of mishaps to justify the investment.
双方领导人还续签了一份10年的防务协议，同意合作开展军工硬件生产，并联合降低温室气体排放对全球气候的威胁。但与去年11月中美达成的协议相比，这份气候协议的内容主要是一些小意向。美国公司是否会认为新的核能协议提供了足够的保护，使它们在出现事故后免于承担责任，从而愿意投资，这一点也还不清楚。
Still, the atmosphere of amity was palpable as Mr. Modi broke with protocol to greet Mr. Obama at the airport with a warm handshake and hug. During a later joint appearance before the media, Mr. Modi referred to the president as “Barack” and thanked him for his “deep personal commitment” to their developing friendship.
尽管如此，宾主的热情都十分显而易见。莫迪打破外交仪轨，在停机坪迎接奥巴马。两人热情握手并拥抱。随后两人共同出席的新闻发布会上，莫迪对美国总统直呼其名，并感谢他对两人之间建立的友谊“坚定不移”。
“It’s not surprising then that we had a friendship because hopefully we’re reflecting the values of our peoples,” Mr. Obama replied. “That affection can then be translated into specific actions.”
“我们之间建立了友谊并不出人意料，因为我们都反映着我们人民的价值观，”奥巴马回应道。“这种情谊可以转化成具体的行动。”
Mr. Obama’s visit, his second as president, is a major event in India. Despite lingering distrust in many parts of the government, largely over Washington’s history of support for rival Pakistan, the United States enjoys widespread popularity among the general population. For weeks, the Hindi news media has dissected details of Mr. Obama’s planned visit, running half-page cutaway graphics of his limousine and airplane, and broadcasting a detailed report about his BlackBerry. A Hindustan Times report implored the first lady to “Please Dress Desi,” featuring a series of Indian designers offering to provide her with couture saris.
奥巴马此行是他作为总统第二次访问印度，在印度被当作大事件。虽然印度政府对美国仍存疑虑，主要是由于华盛顿历史上曾支持印度的对手巴基斯坦，但普通印度人对美国仍有好感。几周来，印地语媒体深入细致地分析了奥巴马计划中的行程，刊登总统座驾和专机的半版大照片，还播报了有关奥巴马的黑莓手机的详尽报道。《印度斯坦时报》呼吁第一夫人“请穿印度服装”，文章介绍了多位印度设计师，都表示愿意为她提供高级纱丽长裙。
Mr. Obama’s arrival was marred to some extent by his decision, announced just as he left Washington, to cut the visit short by several hours and skip a tour of the Taj Mahal in order to fly to Saudi Arabia to pay respects to the family of King Abdullah, who died on Friday. The cancellation of the visit to the Taj Mahal, India’s most iconic site, was seen as a disappointment here.
奥巴马决定缩短行程几小时、省略参观泰姬陵以便飞赴沙特慰问周五去世的阿卜杜拉国王的亲属，这在一定程度上影响了这次访问的气氛。他的决定是在离开华盛顿之后宣布的。在印度，取消参观泰姬陵——印度最具代表性古迹——的决定很令人失望。
But Mr. Obama planned to pay homage to other cherished symbols of India’s status as the world’s largest democracy. Shortly after landing, he headed to Rajghat for a wreath-laying and tree-planting ceremony at the memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, the father of modern India. Mr. Obama’s tree was planted on the other side of a walkway from one planted by President Bill Clinton during his own visit in 2000.
但奥巴马仍然计划参观印度作为世界最大的民主国家的其他一些受重视的象征。飞机降落后不久，他就前往甘地墓，在纪念圣雄甘地的陵园献花圈并植树。奥巴马的树种在一条小道的一侧，路的另一侧是比尔·克林顿2000年访问时种下的。