WASHINGTON — President Obama has already made clear what he will miss the most when he leaves office in 15 months. “People sometimes ask me what the biggest perk of being president is,” he told visitors at the White House last week. “No. 1 is the plane.”
华盛顿——奥巴马总统已经清楚地表明，在15个月后他离任时，他最怀念的是什么。“人们有时会问我，做总统最大的福利是什么，”上周他对参观白宫的访客说。“专机真的是第一。”
In September, he told another audience that “the plane is nice” and that unfortunately for him “my lease is running out,” so he might soon have to “start taking off my shoes again going through security.” In Kenya in July, he noted that when he visited as a young man his luggage was lost: “That doesn’t happen on Air Force One.”
今年9月，他告诉另外一群听众，“专机非常不错”，可惜“我的租约快要到期了”，所以他可能很快就得“再开始脱下鞋接受安检了”。今年7月在肯尼亚，他说自己年轻时来这里时，自己的行李丢了。“在‘空军一号’(Air Force One)上不会发生这种事。”
Let’s face it: The plane is, in fact, pretty nice, and the president’s luggage is indeed very rarely lost. But the plane is also getting old. And so after more than a million miles of flying while in office, its current primary passenger is planning to bequeath his successor — or perhaps his successor’s successor — a new-and-improved Air Force One spiffed up for the smartphone age.
让我们面对现实吧：这架飞机确实相当不错，而且总统的行李确实极少丢失，但这架飞机也越来越老了。因此在服役执飞了100多万英里后，它当前的首要乘客打算，给自己的继任者——或者继任者的继任者——留下一架经过改进、适应智能手机时代的全新的空军一号。
The Defense Department hopes to sign an initial contract with Boeing in the coming weeks to begin the long process of assembling a new presidential aircraft capable of ferrying the commander in chief around the world with the capacity to run a war from midair if necessary. Built on the frame of a Boeing 747-8, it will be bigger, more powerful, able to fly farther and vastly more advanced technologically than the current customized Boeing 747-200B jumbo jet.
国防部希望在未来几周与波音公司(Boeing)签订初步合同，开始装配一架新的总统专机的漫长过程。这架飞机需要能运送最高统帅前往世界各地，并具备必要时从空中指挥战争的能力。这架飞机将在波音747–8的框架上制造，相比目前那架经过改装的波音747–200B大型喷气式客机，它的体型更大、马力更强、飞得更远，技术也更先进。
Mr. Obama himself will not benefit from the trade-in. By some estimates, the new plane may not be available until 2023, when Hillary Rodham Clinton or Donald J. Trump or whoever beats them may be close to finishing up a second term. And it will not be cheap. The Air Force has asked for $102 million in the coming fiscal year and $3 billion over the next five years, not counting any further cost.
奥巴马本人不会从这项“以旧换新”的交易中受益。据估计，新飞机在2023年前可能都无法使用，而那时希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)和唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，或者任何一个击败他们的人，第二个任期都快要结束了。而且它的造价不会便宜。空军一号在新的财政年度需要1.02亿美元，之后五年需要30亿美元，这还没有计算接下来的任何成本。
“It’s way overdue,” said Joseph W. Hagin, a White House deputy chief of staff under President George W. Bush who initiated plans for a new plane only to see them shelved when the nation’s finances grew precarious. “You can hang new engines on it, you can cram all sorts of new technology on it, but it’s still a very old airplane.”
“它超期服役太久了，”约瑟夫·W·哈金(Joseph W. Hagin)说。“你可以给它装上新发动机，可以把各种新技术塞进去，但它仍然是一架很老的飞机。”哈金曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统任内担任白宫副幕僚长。布什总统启动了建造新飞机的计划，但在国家经济形势风雨飘摇之时只能将其搁置。
Air Force One is actually not a single plane; in fact, it is a radio call sign used for any plane that happens to carry the president. There are two 747-200s, designated VC-25As by the Air Force, that carry the president unless he travels to a place where the runway is too short, in which case he switches to a smaller plane.
空军一号其实并不是单独的一架飞机。事实上，它是美国总统刚好搭乘的那架飞机所使用的无线电呼号。现在有两架波音747–200飞机运送美国总统，美国空军将飞机的型号称为VC–25A。除非他前往的地方跑道太短，那种情况下，他会改乘较小的飞机。
Those 747-200s, with tail codes 28000 and 29000, were commissioned by Ronald Reagan and delivered in 1990 under the first President George Bush, when the Soviet Union was still around and White House aides used beepers. The big communications innovation at the time was a fax machine that the president’s staff could use to keep in touch with the ground.
这两架波音747–200飞机的尾码分别是28000和29000，由罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)下令制造并在1990年老乔治·布什(George Bush)总统在任时交付。那时苏联还没有解散，白宫的幕僚们还在使用传呼机。那时通讯领域的重大创新是传真机，总统的工作人员可以用它来与地面保持联系。
Boeing stopped making 747-200s more than two decades ago, and only 20 of them are left flying in the world, mainly as freight planes in developing countries. Spare parts are no longer made for the plane, so the Air Force often has to have them custom built. Inspections and maintenance work are so frequent that one or the other of the two planes is often out of service.
波音公司20多年前就停止生产747–200飞机了，现在全球只剩20架还在飞行，而且主要在发展中国家承担货运工作。这种飞机的备品备件已经停产，因此美国空军经常不得不特别定制。检修维护工作如此频繁，导致两架飞机中不是这一架就是另外一架无法使用。
Air Force One, of course, is not just a plane. It is power. It is national identity. It is even a movie star. The large blue-and-white aircraft with “United States of America” emblazoned on the side has come to symbolize the country and has captured the imagination of even Americans who have not seen the namesake film starring Harrison Ford as a president fending off Russian hijackers.
当然，空军一号不仅仅是一架飞机。它是权力，是国家身份。它甚至还是一位电影明星。那架机身上印着“美利坚合众国”字样的蓝白两色的庞大飞机，已经成为美国的一个象征，哪怕是那些没看过同名电影《空军一号》的美国人也为之神往。哈里森·福特(Harrison Ford)在该片中扮演一位击退俄罗斯劫机犯的美国总统。
The current plane is a flying White House with 4,000 square feet of space on three levels, including an office, conference room, bedroom and medical suite that can be used as an operating room. While impressive, it is not splashy in the sense of Mr. Trump’s private jet with its gold-plated fixtures.
目前现役的空军一号就像一座飞行的白宫，上下三层面积共4000平方英尺（约370平米），包括一间办公室、会议室、卧室，以及可以用作手术室的医疗室。虽然令人印象深刻，但它并不像特朗普镶金饰银的私人飞机那样显眼。
On the day of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the second President Bush was kept flying from air base to air base for fear of his being targeted, and he was deeply frustrated with spotty communications, leading to upgrades afterward.
2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击发生当日，美国担心小布什总统成为攻击目标，不得不让他一直乘飞机在各空军基地间飞行，当时通讯不畅让他很沮丧，于是后来才进行了升级。
The Air Force selected Boeing as the maker of the next plane earlier this year. The 747-8 that will serve as the frame is 250 feet long with a range of nearly 7,800 miles and 66,500 pounds of engine thrust. Once modified, it will be capable of midair refueling, hardened against the electromagnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion and almost certainly equipped with defenses to deflect heat-seeking missiles.
今年早些时候，美国空军选择了波音公司来生产下一架空军一号飞机。作为改装框架的747–8飞机长250英尺（约76米），航程接近7800英里（约1.3万公里），发动机推力达6.65万磅。一旦改装完成，它将具备空中加油的能力，能够抵御核爆炸产生的电磁波脉冲，而且几乎肯定会配备能够避开热追踪导弹的防御系统。
This sort of project has a way of ballooning in cost. A project to build a new Marine One helicopter got so out of control that Mr. Obama’s administration canceled it after taking office and a new contract has now been issued.
这种项目的成本通常都会激增。之前建造一架新的“海军陆战队一号”(Marine One)直升机的项目严重失控。奥巴马就任后，政府取消了这个项目，重新签订了一份新的合同。
“We hope that doesn’t happen with the plane, that they’ve learned their lesson,” said Thomas A. Schatz, the president of Citizens Against Government Waste, a group that criticized the Marine One project.
批评过海军陆战队一号项目的团体“公民反对政府浪费”(Citizens Against Government Waste)的会长托马斯·A·沙茨(Thomas A. Schatz)说，“我们希望他们吸取了教训，不要让这架飞机再发生类似情况。”
As it is, given the reported $180,000-an-hour flying cost, presidents are often criticized for using Air Force One for their political or personal purposes. But so far, members of both parties seem to be going along with plans for a new plane. After all, no one knows which side will have the White House when it becomes available for use.
实际上，由于空军一号每小时的飞行成本高达18万美元，美国总统常常因为出于政治或个人目的使用空军一号而遭到批评。但目前为止，两党似乎都赞同建造新飞机的计划。毕竟，现在没人能知道等到飞机可以使用的时候，到底哪一方能入主白宫。
“Air Force One gives us everything that we want,” said Robert F. Dorr, the author of a book about the plane. “It does convey power, but it also conveys class and style and purpose. It’s just exciting to see it arrive. People get excited. They do love it.”
“空军一号给了我们想要的一切，”为这架飞机写过一本书的作者罗伯特·F·多尔(Robert F. Dorr)说，“它不仅显示着权力，还传达着品味、风格和目标。单单看它抵达，就很令人兴奋。人们非常激动，他们真的很喜欢它。”
Mr. Obama is not the only president to love the plane. “I miss Air Force One,” the younger Mr. Bush said last year. “In eight years, they never lost my luggage.” This year, he repeated the sentiment. “I miss, for example, the Air Force’s accommodating me with a shower on the airplane that flew me around,” he said.
奥巴马并不是唯一一位喜欢空军一号的总统。“我怀念空军一号，”小布什去年说。“八年里，他们从来没有弄丢过我的行李。”今年，他再次表达了这种怀念之情。他说，“比如，我很怀念美国空军提供了便利，让我可以在那架载着我到处走的飞机上冲凉。”
When Mr. Obama campaigned with Bill Clinton in 2012, the incumbent joked about Air Force One. “Bill may not miss being president, but he misses that plane,” Mr. Obama said. “Let’s face it, he does. It’s a great plane. And I’ll miss it, too.”
2012年奥巴马和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)一起参加竞选活动时，现任总统曾经拿空军一号开过玩笑。“比尔或许不会怀念当总统的日子，但他肯定会怀念那架飞机，”奥巴马说。“承认吧，他肯定会。那是一架很不错的飞机，我也会想它的。”