CARACAS, Venezuela — Citing “an extraordinary threat to the national security of the United States,” President Obama on Monday signed an executive order freezing any American assets belonging to seven Venezuelan law enforcement and military officials who it said were linked to human rights violations.
委内瑞拉加拉加斯——周一，奥巴马总统以“美国的国家安全受到严重威胁”为由签署了一项行政命令，冻结了委内瑞拉七名执法和军方官员在美国的全部资产，称他们与侵犯人权的行为有牵连。
The sanctioned officials included the current and a former head of the intelligence police, a former commander of the National Guard and a prosecutor involved in filing charges against opposition politicians accused of taking part in conspiracies against the government of President Nicolás Maduro.
受到制裁的官员包括情报警察机构的现任和前任负责人、国民警卫队(National Guard)的一名前指挥官和一名检察官。这名检察官参与了对一些反对派政治人物的起诉。那些反对派人士被控密谋推翻总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)领导的政府。
One of the opposition politicians charged by the prosecutor was Antonio Ledezma, the mayor of Caracas, who was jailed last month and accused of plotting to overthrow Mr. Maduro, an accusation that Mr. Ledezma has denied. The charges against him and others were based on fabricated or implausible evidence, according to the White House.
被这名检察官起诉的反对派政治人物之一是加拉加斯市长安东尼奥·莱迪兹玛(Antonio Ledezma)。莱迪兹玛被控密谋推翻马杜罗，于上个月入狱，他否认了这一指控。白宫称，指控莱迪兹玛及其他人所依据的证据，要么是捏造的，要么有悖常理。
The others sanctioned included military and police officials.
其他被制裁的人员包括军方和警方的官员。
“We are deeply concerned by the Venezuelan government’s efforts to escalate intimidation of its political opponents,” the Obama administration said in a statement.
“我们对委内瑞拉政府恐吓政敌行动的升级深表关切，”奥巴马政府在一份声明中说。
Venezuelan officials condemned the American action, citing it as proof that the United States was planning a military intervention.
委内瑞拉官员谴责了美国的这一行动，并称这就是美国正在计划采取军事干涉的证据。
“We are a threat to the United States?” said Diosdado Cabello, the National Assembly speaker in a televised speech, invoking the story of David and Goliath. “What is being planned are attacks against our land, against our country, military attacks. American imperialism uses these emergency resolutions every time it is going to attack a country, to say that it feels threatened.”
“我们威胁到美国了吗？”委内瑞拉国民议会(National Assembly)主席迪奥斯达多·卡韦略(Diosdado Cabello)在电视讲话中说。他在讲话中还引述了“大卫与歌利亚”(David and Goliath)的故事。“美国正在计划对我们的土地，我们的国家发动攻击，军事攻击。美帝国主义每当要攻击某个国家时，都会使用这些紧急决议，说觉得自己受到了威胁。”
The United States has dismissed previous Venezuelan charges that it was planning military action or seeking to undermine Mr. Maduro’s government.
委内瑞拉过去就曾指控美国计划采取军事行动，或寻求颠覆马杜罗政府。不过美国并没有理会这些指控。
The Venezuelan foreign minister, Delcy Rodríguez, said in a Twitter post that Caracas was recalling its top embassy official from Washington for consultation, a diplomatic gesture of protest. The United States and Venezuela have not had ambassadors in each other’s capitals since 2008.
委内瑞拉外长德尔西·罗德里格斯(Delcy Rodríguez)在Twitter上发帖称，加拉加斯将召回驻华盛顿使馆的最高官员，以协商此事，这是一种表达抗议的外交姿态。美国和委内瑞拉自从2008年以来就没有向对方的首都派遣过大使。
The executive order carries out a law passed by Congress in December to levy sanctions on Venezuelan officials involved in human rights abuses during protests last year. It allows for the freezing of bank accounts, real estate or other property.
这项行政命令执行了国会在去年12月通过的一项法律，该法律旨在对去年的抗议活动中涉嫌侵犯人权的委内瑞拉官员实施制裁。该法律允许冻结银行账户、房地产或其他资产。
It was not clear, however, whether the officials being sanctioned actually owned property in the United States. An administration official said that designating those to be sanctioned was a first step and that a search to see whether they had assets that could be frozen would now begin.
不过，尚不清楚受到制裁的官员是否真的在美国拥有资产。一名政府官员称，确定制裁对象是第一步，现在将开始调查他们是否拥有可以被冻结的资产。
The administration official, who was not allowed to discuss policy publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity, also said that in order to carry out sanctions of this type, the law required the president to declare the nation whose officials are sanctioned to be a national security threat. The official cautioned that the declaration was meant to meet the legal requirement and did not represent “a recategorization of the actual circumstances in Venezuela.”
由于无权公开讨论该政策，这名官员要求匿名。他还表示，要实施这种类型的制裁，按照法律规定，总统必须宣布，被制裁官员所属的国家构成了国家安全威胁。这名官员提醒说，此举是为了满足法律上的要求，不代表“对委内瑞拉的实际情况进行了重新界定”。