WASHINGTON — President Obama, facing implacable opposition to a strike in Syria in Congress and throughout the country, said Tuesday that he would hold off on military action for now and pursue a Russian proposal for international monitors to take over and destroy Syria’s arsenal of chemical weapons.
华盛顿——美国国会和全国上下对奥巴马总统打击叙利亚的提议表达了坚决的反对。面对这种局面，奥巴马于周二表示，他会暂时搁置军事行动计划，力争根据俄罗斯的提议，让国际监察员接手此事，销毁叙利亚的化学武器库。
Speaking to the nation from the White House, Mr. Obama laid out his most extensive and detailed case for a limited strike against Syria to punish it for its use of chemical weapons. But he also acknowledged the deep doubts of Americans who after the experience of Iraq and Afghanistan view any form of military engagement in Syria with alarm.
在白宫对全国发表讲话时，奥巴马以最全面、最详尽的论述，阐明了对叙利亚采取有限军事打击，从而对该国动用化学武器的做法进行惩罚的理由。不过，他也承认美国人对此有深深的疑虑，在经历过伊拉克和阿富汗战争之后，美国人对在叙利亚采取任何形式的军事干预都怀有戒心。
In a speech that only 48 hours ago was going to solely be a call to arms, Mr. Obama instead offered a qualified endorsement of a proposal that his own advisers conceded was rife with risk, given Russia’s steadfast refusal to agree to any previous measures to pressure Syria, its longtime ally. 
如果是在短短48小时之前做出，这场演讲的主旨就只会是呼吁动武而已。但此时，奥巴马还在演讲中对俄罗斯的提议给出了附加条件的背书。鉴于俄罗斯一直坚决反对过去任何一项向叙利亚施压的举措，就连奥巴马的顾问都承认，他这么做风险巨大。叙利亚是俄罗斯的长期盟友。
“It’s too early to tell whether this offer will succeed, and any agreement must verify that the Assad regime keeps its commitments,” Mr. Obama said. “But this initiative has the potential to remove the threat of chemical weapons without use of use force.”
奥巴马说，“现在判断这项提议能否成功还为时过早，任何协议都必须确定，阿萨德政权会履行承诺。不过，这项提议有可能在不动武的条件下，消除化学武器威胁。”
The president said he had asked Congressional leaders to postpone a vote authorizing military action — a vote he was almost certain to lose — even while making the moral case for punishing Syria for its deadly use of chemical weapons. What Mr. Obama did not say was how long he was willing to wait, what would convince him that the Russian proposal was credible, and what he would do if it was not.
总统说，他已要求国会领导人推迟对授权军事行动进行表决。尽管奥巴马已经以道德理由阐述了，应当对叙利亚使用致命化学武器的做法做出惩罚，但几乎可以肯定，他在此次投票中仍然会落败。奥巴马没有说他愿意等多久；没有说是什么原因让他相信，俄罗斯的提议是可靠的；更没有说如果提议不可信，他又会怎么办。
For Mr. Obama, the 16-minute address from the East Room of the White House was a frank acknowledgment of how radically the political and diplomatic landscape had shifted in just a few days. With officials on Capitol Hill, at the United Nations, and in foreign capitals flocking to embrace Russia’s plan as an alternative to force, Mr. Obama found himself trying to redefine the terms of the debate.
对奥巴马而言，他在白宫东厅发表的时长16分钟的演讲，直接表明了政治和外交形势在几天之内发生了多么极端的变化。随着国会山(Capitol Hill)、联合国(United Nations)和世界各国政府的官员们一拥而上地接纳俄罗斯的计划，作为武力攻击的替代选项，奥巴马也只得重新设定辩论的条款。
His speech capped a day of rapid-fire developments as the United Nations Security Council scheduled and then cancelled a meeting, Syria embraced the Russian proposal, and Mr. Obama dispatched Secretary of State John Kerry to Geneva for two days of negotiations with his Russian counterpart.
他的演讲诠释了一天内飞速发展的事件。在这一日内，联合国安理会(Security Council)计划举行一场会议，随后又取消了会议，叙利亚接受了俄罗斯的提议，奥巴马派出国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)前往日内瓦，与俄罗斯外长进行为期两天的谈判。
Even in the face of widespread opposition, Mr. Obama made an impassioned case for a retaliatory strike, appealing in starkly emotional terms to Americans who have flooded the White House with skeptical letters that President Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons could not be tolerated.
即使面对广泛的反对，奥巴马依然充满激情地为实施报复性打击提出了理由。他用十分动情的措辞，向许许多多致信白宫表达怀疑的美国人呼吁，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)动用化学武器是不可容忍的。
“The images from this massacre are sickening,” Mr. Obama said, “Men, women, and children lying in rows, killed by poison gas, others foaming at mouth, gasping for breath, a father clutching his dead children, imploring them to get up and walk.”
奥巴马说，“此次大屠杀的画面令人发指。被毒气毒死的男人、女人、儿童一排排躺着，其他人则口吐白沫、喘着粗气，一位父亲抱着他死去的孩子，哀求他们站起来行走。”
Mr. Obama also framed his case in political terms. To those on the right, he asked them to reconcile their commitment to America’s military might with a failure to act now, and to those on left, he asked them to reconcile their belief in freedom and dignity “with those images of children writhing in pain and going still on a cold hospital floor.”
奥巴马还从政治上陈述了他的观点。他追问保守派，怎样才能调和笃信美国军力与此刻不采取行动之间的矛盾，他也追问自由派，看到“孩子们在医院冰冷的地板上痛苦地扭动身体，直到无法动弹的画面”之后，怎样才能安然接受自己对自由和尊严的信仰。
“For sometimes,” he said, “resolutions and statements of condemnation are not enough.”
他说，“有时，仅仅有决议和谴责是不够的。”
Yet for now at least, the debate will focus on the language of diplomacy. Administration officials, lawmakers and diplomats all expressed doubts about the Russian plan. Some said it would allow Syria to play for time and was calculated to undermine the drive for Congressional and international support for a strike. Others said the idea of securing chemical weapons stockpiles in the midst of a brutal civil war was fanciful.
不过，至少此刻，辩论的重点会集中在外交辞令上。美国政府官员、议员和外交官都对俄罗斯的计划表示怀疑。一些人说，此举将使叙利亚有机会拖延时间，其目的是削弱美国国会和国际社会支持对叙打击的动力。还有一些人说，在一场残酷的战争中，保证化学武器储备安全的想法是异想天开。
Moreover, the diplomatic efforts — which began after Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, announced his proposal on Monday — quickly ran into trouble. A meeting of the United Nations Security Council was canceled Tuesday afternoon after Russia clashed with the United States and France over whether to make its proposal binding and back it up with the threat of force.
而且，尽管俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)周一宣布的提议开启了外交的大门，但这种努力很快陷入了麻烦。周二下午，联合国安理会会议被取消，因为俄罗斯与美法之间就提议的法律效力，以及是否佐之以武力威胁的问题产生了严重分歧。
“We need a full resolution from the Security Council to have the confidence that this has the force it ought to have,” Mr. Kerry said in a social media interview sponsored by Google. “Right now the Russians are in a slightly different place on that.”
在谷歌(Google)赞助的社交访谈中，克里称，“我们需要来自安理会的全面决议，这样才能有信心让其具备应有的效力。目前看来，俄罗斯在这个问题上的立场略有偏差。”
Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov will meet in Geneva on Thursday to work out these disagreements. Before Russia made its announcement, Mr. Kerry expressed blunt skepticism that Syria could be trusted to turn over its stockpile, which is dispersed in multiple locations around the country. In testimony to Congress on Tuesday, he described the Obama administration’s position on the Russian plan.
本周四，克里将与拉夫罗夫在日内瓦会晤，商讨这些分歧。俄罗斯发表声明之前，克里曾对叙利亚能否老实交出分散在全国各地的武器储备，直言不讳地表达过怀疑。周二在国会出席听证会的时候，他阐述了奥巴马政府对俄罗斯方案的立场。
“It has to be swift, it has to be real, it has to be verifiable,” Mr. Kerry told the House Armed Services Committee. “It cannot be a delaying tactic.”
“它必须迅速、必须真实、必须可以验证，”克里对众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)说，“绝不能是拖延战术。”
For its part, the Syrian foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem, said Tuesday that Syria would turn over its chemical weapons arsenal to Russia, the United Nations and “other countries” — a startling concession, given that as recently as this week Mr. Assad had disputed that Syria even possessed chemical weapons.
在叙利亚方面，外交部长瓦利德·穆阿利姆(Walid al-Moallem)周二表示，该国将把化学武器移交给俄罗斯、联合国及“其他国家”。鉴于阿萨德本周还驳斥了叙利亚拥有化学武器的说法，这一表态实属惊人的让步。
Mr. Obama’s decision to work through the Security Council is itself a shift, given that 10 days ago he described it as “completely paralyzed and unwilling to hold Assad accountable.” But administration officials said they were swayed by the level of detail in the Russian proposal, which grew out of an impromptu conversation between Mr. Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin on the sidelines of a summit meeting in St. Petersburg, Russia, last week.
奥巴马决定通过安理会来应对此事，这本身也是一种转变。就在10天前，他还称安理会“完全瘫痪，不愿让阿萨德负责”。不过，奥巴马政府的官员表示，俄罗斯提议中细节的详细程度对他们产生了影响。这项提议源于奥巴马与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周在圣彼得堡峰会的边会上进行的一次未经计划的交谈。
On Capitol Hill, where opposition to a strike was hardening, senators emerged from lunchtime meetings with Mr. Obama optimistic that Congress could shift from a resolution authorizing force to one that would give diplomacy more time.
过去几天，美国国会反对袭击的呼声日益增强。与奥巴马进行了午餐会后，参议员们乐观地认为，国会可以搁置授权动武的决议，转而审议为外交行动提供更多时间的决议。
The president impressed on them the need to keep the pressure on Syria and Russia, but expressed support for a delay in any vote until the Security Council makes clear what it plans to do.
奥巴马向他们强调，有必要对叙利亚和俄罗斯持续施压，但同时表示，他支持推迟投票，直到安理会阐明自身的计划。
While the House was considered the major obstacle for Mr. Obama in seeking approval for a strike, it became clear that the straightforward resolution authorizing force that the president had sought was highly unlikely to pass in the Senate either. Only a handful of Republicans were yes votes, and at least 15 Democrats were likely to vote no.
尽管众议院被认为是奥巴马寻求批准攻击的主要障碍，但情况表明，他希望得到的直接授权动武的决议，很可能也无法获得参议院的通过。只有少数共和党人会投赞成票，而至少有15名民主党人可能投反对票。
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and one of the strongest supporters of a strike, and a fellow Republican hawk, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, formed a new negotiating group with two senior Democratic senators, Carl Levin of Michigan, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Charles E. Schumer of New York, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat.
来自亚利桑那州的共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)是最强烈支持实施攻击的议员之一。他及同属共和党鹰派的南卡罗来纳州参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)与两名资深民主党参议员组成了一个新的谈判小组。这两人分别是，来自密歇根州的参议院军事委员会主席卡尔·莱文(Carl Levin)，以及来自纽约州的民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)。舒默是参议院民主党人中的三号人物。
Mr. Levin stressed Tuesday that the alternative resolution developed by the group would authorize a military strike, but set aside that authority if Mr. Assad placed his chemical weapons under the control of the United Nations, as Russia has proposed.
莱文周二强调，该小组起草的替代决议将授权进行军事打击，不过，一旦阿萨德遵照俄罗斯的提议将化学武器交给联合国控制，授权将自动失效。
“This is kind of a twofer,” Mr. Levin said. “It’s a way of keeping the pressure on Syria and on Russia to get rid of chemical weapons, which is the goal of the whole effort, and second, if they fail, it would keep the authorization to launch a strike.”
“差不多是一举两得，”莱文说，“一方面，能对叙利亚和俄罗斯持续施压，让其放弃化学武器，这也是全部努力的最终目的。另一方面，如果失败，发动攻击的授权仍然有效。”