PANAMA CITY — President Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba met here Saturday, in the first face-to-face discussion between the leaders of the two countries in a half century.
巴拿马城——奥巴马总统和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)周六在这里举行了会晤。这是半个世纪以来，两国领导人首次举行面对面的会谈。
Seated beside Mr. Castro in a small room in the convention center downtown where the summit was being held, Mr. Obama called the event “an historic meeting.”
峰会是在巴拿马闹市区的一座会议中心里举行的。在会议中心的一个小房间里，奥巴马坐在卡斯特罗的身旁，称这是“一次具有历史意义的会晤”。
The president cast his decision to seek normalized relations with Cuba after 50 years of estrangement in a bid to reverse a failed policy.
经过50年的疏远后，奥巴马总统决定寻求与古巴关系的正常化，试图以此扭转一项失败的政策。
“It was time for us to try something new,” Mr. Obama said. “We are now in a position to move on a path toward the future.” He added: “Over time, it is possible for us to turn the page and develop a new relationship between our two countries.”
“我们是时候尝试新东西了，”奥巴马说。“我们现在可以朝着未来前进。”他接着表示：“长远来看，我们有望翻过这一页，并在两个国家之间培育一种新关系。”
Mr. Castro said the opening would take time, but eventually could yield agreements on long-held differences.
卡斯特罗表示，开始可能会需要时间，但最终能在长期存在分歧的领域达成共识。
”We are willing to discuss everything, but we need to be patient, very patient,” Mr. Castro said, according to his translator. “We might disagree on something today on which we could agree tomorrow.”
卡斯特罗通过翻译表示：“我们愿意讨论所有议题，但我们需要有耐心，非常有耐心。或许今天我们在某个问题上会有分歧，但明天可能就会达成一致。”
The meeting on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas was an important step for Mr. Obama as he seeks to ease tensions with Cuba and defuse a generations-old dispute that has also affected relations with the countries of the region. Ever since his first foray to the summit three months after taking office, Mr. Obama has seen one bone of contention frustrate his efforts to reach out to America’s hemispheric neighbors: the fact that Cuba was blackballed from the gathering.
奥巴马试图缓和与古巴的关系，并平息持续了几十年的争执。对奥巴马来说，在美洲国家首脑会议(Summit of the Americas)期间举行的此次会谈是重要的一步。奥巴马首次出席该峰会是在其上任三个月后。从那时开始，他在接触美国的西半球邻国之时，总是受到一个争议问题的阻碍，那就是古巴被禁止参加该峰会。
He was scolded by Argentina’s president for maintaining an “anachronistic blockade,” lectured by Bolivia’s president about behaving “like a dictatorship,” and, in 2012, blamed for the failure of leaders to agree that year on a joint declaration — the result, his Colombian host said, of the dispute over Cuba.
阿根廷总统斥责奥巴马维持了“过时的封锁”，玻利维亚总统训斥他表现得“像个独裁国家”。此外，在2012年，峰会主办国哥伦比亚称，各国领导人那一年未能就联合声明达成共识，应当归咎于奥巴马。哥伦比亚称，那一后果是围绕古巴问题的争议导致的。
This year, Mr. Obama came to the summit meeting here determined to change the dynamic with a series of overtures to Cuba.
今年，奥巴马来这里出席峰会时，下定决心要用对古巴的一系列示好姿态来扭转局面。
In addition to the meeting with Mr. Castro, the summit was the first time in the more than 20-year history of the summit meeting that Cuba was allowed to attend. And it came as Mr. Obama neared a decision to remove Cuba from a list of state sponsors of terrorism, a crucial precursor to the establishment of diplomatic relations between Washington and Havana.
除了与卡斯特罗举行会晤之外，此次峰会也是其在20多年的举办历史中，首次允许古巴出席。而且峰会召开之际，奥巴马也即将决定把古巴从支持恐怖主义的国家名单中去除。这是美国与古巴建立外交关系之前至关重要的一步。
“The United States will not be imprisoned by the past — we’re looking to the future,” Mr. Obama said of his approach to Cuba at the summit meeting’s first plenary session on Saturday, speaking just before Mr. Castro took the floor and before their meeting. “I’m not interested in having battles that frankly started before I was born.”
“美国不会纠缠于过去，我们正着眼于未来，”奥巴马周六在峰会的首次全体会议上，谈论自己对古巴的政策时说。“我对参与那些斗争不感兴趣，坦白说，那都是我出生前开始的。”这番论述是二人的会晤举行之前做出的，奥巴马说完这番话，紧接着卡斯特罗就发表了讲话。
“The Cold War,” he added, “has been over for a long time.”
奥巴马说，“冷战已经结束很长时间了。”
He said the shift in policy would be a turning point for the entire region.
他表示，对于整个地区来说，政策的转变将会成为一个转折点。
If Mr. Obama was ready to forget past grudges, Mr. Castro was not. He gave a lengthy speech on Saturday that included a recitation of Cuban grievances against the United States — including its support for Fulgencio Batista, the Bay of Pigs invasion and its opening of the prison at Guantánamo Bay — sometimes pounding the table for emphasis. But Mr. Castro also made clear that he did not blame Mr. Obama for the legacy of bad blood between their two countries, and expressed admiration for the American president, calling him an “honest man” and praising as a “positive step” his reconsideration of Cuba’s designation as a state sponsor of terrorism.
尽管奥巴马准备忘记过去的积怨，卡斯特罗却没有打算忘记。他在周六发表了长篇大论，详细讲述了古巴对美国的不满——比如美国对富尔亨西奥·巴蒂斯塔(Fulgencio Batista)的支持，猪湾事件(Bay of Pigs invasion)，以及在关塔那摩湾开设监狱的做法——并多次拍桌子以示强调。但卡斯特罗也明确表示，他不会将两国间长期的敌意归咎于奥巴马。他还对这位美国总统提出了赞扬，称他是一个“正直的人”，并表示，奥巴马决定对古巴支持恐怖主义国家的称号给予重新考虑，是“积极的一步”。
For Mr. Obama, the gathering was a chance to showcase progress toward a goal he aspired to during the first Latin American summit meeting he attended — when he spoke of a “new beginning” with Cuba even in its absence — and to clear away what had become a dysfunctional subtext of the meeting for generations of American presidents.
对于奥巴马来说，此次会议是一次机会，可以展示他在第一次参加拉美峰会时阐述的目标，如今取得了怎样的进展。当时奥巴马谈到美国与古巴的“新开端”，尽管那时古巴并未出席。此次会议上，奥巴马还可以扫除一个障碍，对参加会议的数代美国总统来说，古巴问题一直是外交受挫的潜在因素。
“Our Cuba policy, instead of isolating Cuba, was isolating the United States in our own backyard,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser for strategic communications. 
本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)表示，“我们对古巴的政策非但没有孤立古巴，反而使美国在自己的后院受到孤立。”罗兹是奥巴马的副国家安全顾问，负责战略沟通。
While several Latin American nations have criticized recent United States sanctions against several Venezuelan officials it has accused of human rights violations, Mr. Obama’s overtures to Cuba, as well as his recent executive action on immigration, to make it easier for some people who are in the United States without authorization to stay legally, have brought an unusual round of salutes and congratulations.
虽然几个拉美国家最近指责美国针对几名他们认为存在侵犯人权行为的委内瑞拉官员的制裁举措，但奥巴马对古巴的示好姿态，以及他最近就移民议题采取的行政举措，受到了罕见的欢迎和赞赏。奥巴马实行的新举措使得非法滞留在美国的人，更容易取得合法居留的地位。
“President Obama is going to leave a legacy the way he is supporting Hispanics in the United States, and also his new policy for Cuba for us is very important,” President Juan Carlos Varela of Panama said just before a meeting with Mr. Obama at the summit conference.
巴拿马总统胡安·卡洛斯·巴雷拉(Juan Carlos Varela)在峰会期间与奥巴马举行会晤之前表示，“奥巴马总统在美国支持西语裔民众的举措，将会留下一份政治遗产。对我们来说，他对古巴的新政策也具有重要意义。”
President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, who demanded Cuba’s inclusion in this summit meeting as he closed the last one, in his country in 2012, also celebrated Cuba’s arrival.
哥伦比亚总统胡安·曼努埃尔·桑托斯(Juan Manuel Santos)也对古巴的到来表示称赞。上一届峰会于2012年在哥伦比亚举行，当时桑托斯在闭幕仪式上要求将古巴纳入峰会。