BEIJING — As President Obama made apologetic calls to Asia to cancel his planned trip to the region, China’s leader, Xi Jinping, was taking a star turn in some of the same countries Mr. Obama would have visited.
北京——就在奥巴马总统致电亚洲国家，为取消预定行程道歉的时候，中国领导人习近平在奥巴马计划访问的一些国家成为主角。
Mr. Xi this week became the first foreigner to address the Indonesian Parliament, offering billions of dollars in trade to the country that was Mr. Obama’s childhood home. The Chinese leader then moved on to Malaysia, before preparing to attend two Asian summit meetings that Mr. Obama had to abandon because of the government shutdown at home.
本周，习近平成为第一个在印度尼西亚国会发表演讲的外国人，他为印尼带来了价值数十亿美元的贸易合同。奥巴马儿时曾在印尼居住。然后，习近平访问了马来西亚，并准备参加两个亚洲峰会。由于美国政府停摆，奥巴马不得不取消参加这些峰会的计划。
With the cancellation of the visits, the much-promoted but already anemic American “pivot” to Asia was further undercut, leaving regional allies increasingly doubtful the United States will be a viable counterbalance to a rising China.
美国大肆宣扬的“转向”亚洲政策已经丧失活力，随着此次行程的取消，该政策遭到进一步削弱，致使其亚洲盟友日益怀疑，美国是否真的能够平衡一个崛起中的中国。
Coming after Mr. Obama’s U-turn on intervention in Syria amid signs of a new American insularity, the revolt in the House of Representatives over health care left many Asians puzzling over America’s messy democracy and wondering if the United States would be able — or willing — to stand up to China in a confrontation.
有迹象表明美国处于自顾不暇的困境，而奥巴马又在是否干预叙利亚的问题上彻底扭转态度，再加上众议院(House of Representatives)对医保的反对，这都导致很多亚洲人对美国混乱的民主制度感到困惑，他们不知道出现对抗时，美国是否能够——或愿意——去面对中国。
That wariness, Asian officials and analysts say, is giving China a new edge in the tug of war with the United States over influence in Asia, with the gravitational pull of China’s economy increasingly difficult to resist.
亚洲官员及分析人士表示，这种瞻前顾后的态度促使中国在中美争夺亚洲影响力的拉锯战中占据优势，而中国经济的万有引力越来越难以抗拒。
“How can the United States be a reliable partner when President Obama can’t get his own house in order?” asked Richard Heydarian, a foreign policy adviser to the Philippine Congress and a lecturer in international affairs at Ateneo de Manila University in Manila. “It makes people wonder: Is the United States really in the position to come to our aid in the event of a military conflict?”
“既然奥巴马总统无法处理好内部事务，那美国又怎么能够成为一个可靠的伙伴呢？”菲律宾国会外交政策顾问、马尼拉雅典耀大学(Ateneo de Manila University)国际关系讲师理查德·海德林(Richard Heydarian)质疑道。“这让人们怀疑，当爆发军事冲突时，美国是否能够伸出援手？”
And in rare public criticism of the United States by a senior Singaporean official, Bilahari Kausikan, the recently retired permanent secretary of the Foreign Ministry, said Thursday in a speech in Hanoi, Vietnam, that in the face of China’s challenge, Washington — and its ally Japan — was “not exerting sufficient countervailing economic influence.”
新加坡的高级官员很少公开批评美国，最近退休的前新加坡外交部(Foreign Ministry)常任秘书比拉哈里·考斯甘(Bilahari Kausikan)周四却在越南河内发表演讲称，面对中国的挑战，华盛顿方面——及其盟友日本——“没有施加足够的经济影响力与之抗衡。”
China’s mounting investments in Southeast Asia, including the establishment of a $50 billion Chinese infrastructure bank to rival development banks influenced by the United States, are no longer “just a matter of business” but “a core Chinese interest,” Mr. Kausikan warned.
考斯甘警告称，中国在东南亚地区的投资不断增加，比如投资500亿美元（约合3060亿元人民币）设立一个中国基础设施投资银行，与受美国支配的开发银行竞争，这不再“只是一个商业问题”，而是事关“中国的核心利益”。
“Where economics goes,” he said, “strategy inevitably follows.”
“随着经济的发展，”他说，“必然会有相应的策略。”
That is not to say the United States will lose its standing in the region it has long dominated anytime soon. Many Asian countries remain wary of China’s territorial ambitions and had welcomed the “pivot” as protection against extensive Chinese claims in the South China and East China Seas. The presence of tens of thousands of American troops in Japan and South Korea and the United States naval fleet roaming the Pacific add to that projection of power.
这不是说美国将很快失去在该地区长期以来的主导地位。很多亚洲国家仍对中国在领土方面的野心保持警惕，并曾对“转向”亚洲的政策表示欢迎，以此应对中国对南海及东海广阔地区的主权宣示。美国在日韩的数万名驻军，以及在太平洋巡航的海军舰队都增强了自己的投射力。
As if to bolster that point, the American secretary of defense, Chuck Hagel, visited South Korea and Japan this week for talks to beef up the alliances with those two countries. He was joined in Japan by Secretary of State John Kerry for the signing of a security agreement that allows the deployment of American surveillance drones there for the first time and gives implicit backing to Japan’s slow but steady moves to strengthen its once-powerful military.
美国的下列举措似乎突显了这一点，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)于本周访问日韩两国，并参加了会谈，以加强与日韩两国的同盟。哈格尔与美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)一起在日本签署了安全协议，该协议首次允许美国在日本部署无人侦察机，并对日本缓慢而稳步地增强该国一度强大的军事力量含蓄地表示支持。
But even in Japan, one of America’s closest allies, doubts were expressed about the United States’ willingness to offer backing in the event of a conflict with China over disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan. The conservative government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has already increased the military budget, partly from fear that the United States would not come to Japan’s aid despite its treaty obligations, analysts said.
日本是美国最亲密的盟友之一，但即使在该国，人们也在怀疑，如果中日因东海争议岛屿问题爆发冲突，美国是否愿意予以支持。中国称这些岛屿为钓鱼岛，日本则称之为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。分析人士表示，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的保守派政府已经增加了军费预算，这在一定程度上是因为他们担心美国不会履行协议义务，向日本提供帮助。
“The analogy is when Obama initially tried to use military strikes against Syria, but then they didn’t happen,” said Ken Jimbo, an associate professor of international security at Keio University in Tokyo. “What if North Korea is aggressive towards South Korea, how would the Obama administration react? What about the Senkaku: if China is assertive with its maritime forces, would Washington provide any physical commitment?”
“类似的情况是，奥巴马原本试图对叙利亚发动军事袭击，但是最终却没有这么做，”东京庆应义塾大学(Keio University)的国际安全副教授神保谦(Ken Jimbo)说。“如果朝鲜对韩国发出挑衅，奥巴马政府又将作何反应？在钓鱼岛的问题上，倘若中国的海上军事力量咄咄逼人，美国政府是否会提供实际支持？”
In Seoul, Mr. Hagel and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, sat with President Park Geun-hye this week at a dinner to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the American-South Korean alliance, even as the popular press hammered the United States for a “new isolationism.”
本周，哈格尔和美军参谋长联席会议主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E. Dempsey)在首尔与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)共进晚餐，庆祝美韩同盟成立60周年，而在此时，该国的大众媒体猛烈抨击美国是在实行“新孤立主义”。
In the mass-circulation newspaper JoongAng Ilbo, a columnist, Kim Young-hie, wrote, “Washington’s primary concerns have veered away from Asia, the Korean Peninsula and North Korea.” He labeled the Obama administration’s policy toward North Korea “strategic neglect.”
专栏作家金永熙（Kim Young-hie，音译）在发行量颇大的报纸《中央日报》(JoongAng Ilbo)上写道，“华盛顿的主要重心已经偏离了亚洲、朝鲜半岛和朝鲜。”他将奥巴马政府的对朝政策称之为“战略上的忽视”。
In Indonesia, where China has long been viewed with suspicion, attitudes toward the Chinese have warmed, said Rizal Sukma, executive director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta.
雅加达战略与国际问题研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)执行主任里扎尔·苏克马(Rizal Sukma)说，长期以来，印尼一直对中国心存疑虑，而该国现在则对中国的态度有所缓和。
“I would call Indonesia’s attitude towards China now as a display of growing comfort amid persistent ambiguity,” Mr. Sukma said. “On the one hand, it values economic opportunities offered by China. On the other hand, Indonesia is still anxious about China’s long-term intentions in East Asia.”
“我认为印尼目前对中国的态度已经越来越放松，但是一直以来的不明确性仍未消散，”苏克马说。“一方面，它很重视中国提供的经济机会。另一方面，印尼仍然就中国对东亚地区的长远用意心存疑虑。”
He added, “Like many other East Asian countries, Indonesia has been in doubt regarding America’s ability to sustain the pivot strategy, with the huge cuts in the defense budget over the next five years.”
他还说，“鉴于美国大幅削减了未来五年内的国防开支，与很多其他东亚国家一样，印尼也对美国维持其转向策略的能力感到怀疑。”
In his speech in Jakarta, Mr. Xi said China expected to reach one trillion dollars of trade with the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations by 2020.
习近平在雅加达的演讲中说，中国期望，到2020年，与东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)10个成员国的贸易额能达到1万亿美元。
All countries in East Asia, except the Philippines, now count China as their chief trading partner, according to Peter Drysdale, an economist who heads the East Asia Forum at the Australian National University in Canberra.
堪培拉澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)负责东亚论坛(East Asia Forum)的经济学家彼得·德赖斯代尔(Peter Drysdale)说，除菲律宾以外的所有东亚国家现在都把中国当做他们的主要贸易伙伴。
China’s trade with those nations has grown so quickly in the last 10 years, overtaking the United States as many countries’ prime trading partner, that China would have to increase its trade only fourfold to reach that trillion-dollar goal, he said.
他说，过去10年中，中国与这些国家贸易额的增长十分迅速，已经超越美国，成了很多国家的主要贸易伙伴。现在，中国的贸易额只需翻两番，就能达到1万亿美元的目标。
“United States trade would have to increase a tad more than fivefold to match that — a bit more of a stretch,” Dr. Drysdale said.
“美国的贸易额必须增加五倍多，才能与之相比——这有点太夸张了，”德赖斯代尔博士说。
By failing to show up at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting, which opens on the Indonesian island of Bali on Monday, and by not attending the East Asia Summit in Brunei two days later, Mr. Obama could be ceding Mr. Xi plenty of ground.
由于未能出席周一在印尼巴厘岛开幕的亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)会议，而且还缺席两天后在文莱举行的东亚峰会(East Asia Summit)，奥巴马可能把自己的大片阵地拱手让给习近平。
One of Mr. Obama’s goals in Bali would have been to nudge those Asian countries that Washington had invited to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact into finishing negotiations by the end of the year. The administration has not invited China to join the 12-member group, and China views the trade agreement as a tool to contain it.
美国政府曾邀请一些亚洲国家加入《跨太平洋战略经济伙伴关系协定》（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP），奥巴马原本打算在巴厘岛的会议上敦促这些国家于今年年底完成相关协商。美国并未邀请中国加入这个12国组织，中国则认为该贸易协定是遏制中国的工具。
The pact — a major platform of Mr. Obama’s Asian pivot because it suggests that the new strategy is not only military but also economic — is running into problems in some countries, particularly Malaysia, where Mr. Obama was supposed to go next week.
这项协定——作为奥巴马“转向”亚洲的主要平台，它意味着这个新战略不仅关乎军事还涉及经济——在一些国家遇到了问题，特别是奥巴马原定下周到访的马来西亚。
With Mr. Obama embroiled in battle with House Republicans, Asian leaders will be asking whether the president possesses the political capital to get the trade pact through Congress, Asian officials said.
亚洲官员称，奥巴马目前陷入了与众议院共和党人的斗争，亚洲领导人将质疑他是否拥有使该贸易协定在国会得到通过的政治资本。
And without Mr. Obama in Bali, Mr. Xi will be able to push an alternate trade grouping, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which embraces a broader set of Asian countries than the Pacific Partnership. The United States is not included.
由于奥巴马没有出席巴厘岛的会议，习近平就能推动另一个替代贸易组织“区域全面经济伙伴关系”（Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership，简称RCEP）的发展。与TPP相比，该组织包括更多亚洲国家。美国则未被包含在内。
If showing up is more than half the game, some Asians say, Mr. Xi’s presence will highlight Mr. Obama’s absence.
有些亚洲人士表示，如果说这场游戏的大部分内容就是露个面，那么习近平的出席将会使奥巴马的缺席变得更显眼。
“He is winning hearts and minds in the right places,” said Endy Bayuni, senior editor of The Jakarta Post, a national daily newspaper, speaking of the Chinese leader. And, he said, even if Mr. Obama had turned up at the Bali meeting, he would have most likely been afforded a “less warm reception.”
“他在正确的地方赢得了人心，”面向全国发行的日报《雅加达邮报》(The Jakarta Post)的高级编辑恩迪·巴龙尼(Endy Bayuni)在提到习近平时说。他还说，即便奥巴马出席了巴厘岛的会议，他很可能也不会受到“如此热烈的欢迎”。