WASHINGTON — The Obama administration launched a full-press campaign on Sunday for Congressional approval of its plan to carry out a punitive strike against the Syrian government.
华盛顿——周日，奥巴马政府采取了全场紧逼式的行动，旨在促使国会批准其对叙利亚政府实施惩罚性打击的计划。
The lobbying blitz stretched from Capitol Hill, where the administration held its first classified briefing on Syria open to all lawmakers, to Cairo, where Secretary of State John Kerry reached Arab diplomats by phone in an attempt to rally international support for a firm response to the Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack in the suburbs of Damascus.
闪电式的游说活动从国会(Capitol Hill)延展至开罗，奥巴马政府举行了首次向所有议员开放的有关叙利亚问题的机密简报会，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)则在开罗与阿拉伯国家的外交官进行通话，设法获得国际支持，对8月21日发生在大马士革郊区的化学武器攻击事件作出强有力的回应。
Mr. Kerry appeared on five morning talk shows, announcing new evidence — that the neurotoxin sarin had been used in the attack that killed more than 1,400 people — and expressing confidence that Congress would ultimately back the president’s plan for military action.
克里在五个早间谈话节目中现身，以新的证据表明那次致使逾1400人死亡的攻击行动确实使用了神经毒素沙林，并表示自己有信心，国会(Congress)最终会支持总统的军事行动计划。
Behind closed doors on Capitol Hill, the administration presented classified intelligence to any senator or House member who wished to attend. About 80 did, but some from both parties emerged from the briefing convinced that the draft language authorizing military action would need to be tightened.
在国会的紧闭大门里面，政府向愿意参加会议的参议员和众议员展示了机密情报信息。大约有80名议员参加了会议，然而，会议结束之后，两党的一些与会议员仍然确信，授权军事行动的草拟文件的语言需要更加严谨。
The rush of activity came a day after Mr. Obama’s surprise decision to seek the authorization of Congress for a strike on the Syrian government.
这些仓促活动出现一天前，奥巴马做出了令人震惊的决定，准备寻求国会授权，开展针对叙利亚政府的打击行动。
Ahead of an Arab League meeting in Cairo, Mr. Kerry sought to mobilize backing for American-led military action at a meeting the group held on Sunday night.
阿拉伯联盟(Arab League)在开罗举行了一次会议。在此之前，克里在该组织周日晚间的一次会议上设法动员这些国家，希望它们支持由美国领导的军事行动。
A statement that was issued by the league asserted that the Syrian government was “fully responsible” for the chemical weapons attack and asked the United Nations and the international community “to take the necessary measures against those who committed this crime.”
阿拉伯联盟发布了一份声明，坚称叙利亚政府要为化学武器攻击“负全责”，并要求联合国(United Nations)和国际社会“对犯下这一罪行的叙利亚当局采取必要措施”。
To the satisfaction of American officials, the statement did not explicitly mention the United Nations Security Council or assert that military action could be taken only with its approval. But it stopped short of a direct call for Western military action against Syria.
让美国官员满意的是，声明没有明确提及联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)，也没有宣称只有在获得安理会批准的情况下才能采取军事行动。不过，声明并没有直接呼吁西方国家采取针对叙利亚的军事行动。
As the meeting got under way, the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, urged the international community to stop the Syrian government’s “aggression” against its people.
就在阿拉伯联盟开始举行会议时，沙特阿拉伯的外交大臣沙特·费萨尔亲王(Saud al-Faisal)敦促国际社会终止叙利亚政府“侵害”其人民的行为。
Saudi Arabia has been one of the principal supporters of the Syrian opposition, and Mr. Kerry consulted by phone on Sunday with Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the head of Saudi Arabia’s national security council.
沙特阿拉伯是叙利亚反对派的主要支持者之一。周日，克里通过电话与沙特国家安全委员会主席班达尔·宾·苏丹亲王(Bandar bin Sultan)进行了商讨。
The Obama administration’s calculation has been that a call for tough action by the Arab diplomats would enable the White House to argue to members of Congress that it had regional backing for military action and would make up, at least politically, for the British decision on Thursday not to join the American-led attack.
奥巴马政府的算盘是，阿拉伯国家外交官要求采取强硬行动的呼吁会使白宫能够在国会议员面前辩称，阿拉伯地区支持他们采取军事行动，这至少在政治上弥补了英国周四决定不加入美国领导的攻击行动而造成的损失。
But Syria’s government on Sunday defiantly mocked Mr. Obama’s decision to turn to Congress, saying it was a sign of weakness. A state-run newspaper, Al Thawra, called the action “the start of the historic American retreat” and said Mr. Obama had put off an attack because of a “sense of implicit defeat and the disappearance of his allies.”
然而，叙利亚政府周日公然嘲笑奥巴马向国会申请授权的决定，称这是软弱的表现。叙利亚官方报刊《革命报》(Al Thawra)称此举标志着“美国历史性撤退的开始”，并称奥巴马推迟行动的原因是“一种注定失败的预感，以及缺少盟友支持”。
Syria’s deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, told reporters in Damascus, “It is clear there was a sense of hesitation and disappointment in what was said by President Barack Obama yesterday. And it is also clear there was a sense of confusion, as well.”
叙利亚副外长费萨尔·米格达德(Faisal Mekdad)在大马士革对记者说，“很明显，贝拉克·奥巴马总统昨天的话语透露出了犹豫与失望，还有困惑，这一点也很清楚。”
In some measure, part of the challenge that the Obama administration faces in trying to rally support at home for a punitive strike in Syria is the result of the deep ambivalence it has expressed about becoming involved in the conflict.
奥巴马政府在介入叙利亚冲突的问题上表现出了非常矛盾的态度，从某种程度上说，这也使得它难于为针对叙利亚的惩罚行动寻求国内支持。
Part of the White House strategy for securing Congressional support now is to emphasize not only what Syria did, but also how a failure to act against Syria might embolden enemies of Israel like Iran and Hezbollah.
目前，白宫获取国会支持的部分策略是一边强调叙利亚政府的所作所为，一边强调，如果不对叙利亚采取行动，可能会鼓励以色列的敌人，比如伊朗及真主党(Hezbollah)。
Mr. Kerry, in his five television appearances, also emphasized that it was important for Congress to pass a measure authorizing the use of force to send a firm message to nations like Iran that the United States would not tolerate the fielding of a nuclear device and to safeguard Israel’s security.
克里在五次电视露面中都强调，国会应该通过一条授权使用武力的措施，以向伊朗等国发出美国绝不允许部署核装置的坚定讯息，并为以色列的安全提供保障。
“I do not believe the Congress of the United States will turn its back on this moment,” Mr. Kerry said on the NBC program “Meet The Press.” “The challenge of Iran, the challenges of the region, the challenge of standing up for and standing beside our ally, Israel, helping to shore up Jordan — all of these things are very, very powerful interests and I believe Congress will pass it.”
“我认为，美国国会不会在这个时刻背过身去，”克里在全国广播公司(NBC)的节目《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)上说。“来自伊朗的挑战、来自该地区的挑战、为我们的盟友以色列挺身而出并与它并肩作战的挑战，以及为约旦提供保护的需要——这一切都是非常非常重要的利益，我认为国会将通过这样一项措施。”
One administration official, who, like others, declined to be identified discussing White House strategy, called the American Israel Political Affairs Committee “the 800-pound gorilla in the room,” and said its allies in Congress have to be saying, “If the White House is not capable of enforcing this red line” — against catastrophic use of chemical weapons — “we’re in trouble.”
一名政府官员称美国以色列政治事务委员会(American Israel Political Affairs Committee)“在会议室里举足轻重”，还说该委员会在国会中的盟友不得不表示，“如果白宫无法强制执行这条红线”——反对使用化学武器的灾难性行径——“我们就麻烦了”。这名官员和其他人一样，谈论白宫战略时不愿意具名。
Israeli officials have been concerned by Mr. Obama’s decision, but have been mostly restrained in their public comments. Mr. Kerry talked on Sunday with Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister.
以色列官员也一直十分关注奥巴马的决定，但是在公开评论上却基本较为克制。克里周日与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(BenjaminNetanyahu)进行了谈话。
Both the House and Senate are expected to have votes sometime after they return from recess on Sept. 9, although Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, said the Senate Foreign Relations Committee would convene hearings on the Syrian issue Tuesday afternoon.
据预计，9月9日国会休会期结束后，参众两院都要进行投票。但是，民主党领袖、参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)说，周二下午，参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)将针对叙利亚事宜举行听证会。
While Mr. Kerry said he was confident Congress would vote to approve the use of force, Representative Peter T. King, the New York Republican and a former chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said that if a vote in the House were held today, Mr. Obama would likely lose as a result of the “isolationist wing.”
克里表示，他确信国会将投票赞成使用武力，然而，纽约州共和党众议员、前众议院国土安全委员会(House Homeland Security Committee)主席彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)说，倘若众议院今天举行投票，奥巴马就很可能会栽在“孤立主义势力”手里。
Much of the debate concerned the terms of the resolution the White House has proposed for authorizing the use of force.
白宫要求国会通过决议，授权使用武力，大部分争论的焦点都是决议的具体条款。
Representative Chris Van Hollen, a senior Democrat from Maryland, said that while the administration’s resolution limited the purpose of an attack to stopping the use of weapons of mass destruction, the measure left the military too much “running room” and did not set limits on the duration of the military operation.
马里兰州众议员、资深民主党人克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)说，虽然政府决议把袭击的目的限定为制止大规模杀伤性武器的使用，该举措却会留给军方过多的“行动空间”，而且也没有对军事行动的期限做出限定。
Congressional advocates of strong action to help the Syrian opposition, in contrast, have complained that the attack that President Obama appears to be planning seemed to be too limited to have enough of an impact.
相反，主张采取强硬行动帮助叙利亚反对派的国会成员则抱怨，奥巴马总统似乎正在筹划的袭击显得太过有限，根本无法产生足够的效果。
Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham, both Republicans, have warned that they would not support “isolated military strikes in Syria” that are not part of a broader strategy to shift the momentum on the battlefield. Mr. Obama is scheduled to meet with Mr. McCain on Monday at the White House.
共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)曾发出警告，他们绝不支持“对叙利亚发动孤立的军事袭击”，要求拿出能扭转叙利亚战局的广泛策略。根据安排，奥巴马周一将在白宫会见麦凯恩。
A major question for military experts is what effect the delay in acting might have if force is eventually used by the United States.
军事专家有一个重大疑问，也就是说，倘若美国最终还是要使用武力，目前的耽搁会造成什么后果。
Jack Keane, the former vice chief of staff of the Army and a retired four-star general, said in an interview that time would work to the advantage of President Bashar al-Assad as the Syrian forces would have more opportunities to move their artillery, missiles and other equipment into civilian areas that they knew would not be struck.
美国陆军前副参谋长、现已退休的四星上将杰克·基恩(Jack Keane)在采访中说，拖延时间对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)有利，因为这样一来，叙利亚军队就会有更多机会把他们的火炮、导弹和其他设备转入他们知道不会受到袭击的平民区域。
Even Syrian command centers that cannot be moved, he said, would be emptied of their sensitive equipment and personnel.
他说，甚至连无法移动的叙利亚指挥中心都会把关键设备和工作人员全部转移出去。
But Mr. Obama said that he had been assured by Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, that a delay would not affect the United States military’s ability to carry out a strike.
但奥巴马说，参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)曾向他保证，推迟行动并不会对美军实施打击的能力造成影响。