SAN FRANCISCO — President Obama is often heckled, but it is rare for a guest who is part of a White House-approved backdrop to shout out a protest while the president is in mid-speech.
旧金山——奥巴马总统常常会被打断，然而，获得白宫批准站在他身后的客人在他发表演讲时大声抗议，这样的情况非常罕见。
But that is what happened here on Monday when Mr. Obama called on Congress to pass an overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws.
不过，本地周一就出现了这样的一幕，奥巴马当时正在呼吁国会通过改革美国移民法律的议案。
“Mr. Obama, my family has been separated for 19 months now!” yelled a young man who stood with others on the riser behind the president at the Betty Ann Ong Chinese Recreation Center.
“奥巴马先生，我的家人已被迫分离19个月了！”在演讲地点邓月薇华人康乐中心(Betty Ann Ong Chinese Recreation Center)，一名和其他人一起站在总统身后台子上的年轻男子喊道。
Mr. Obama continued to speak, but the man did not let up. “You have a power to stop deportation for all undocumented immigrants in this country,” he said.
奥巴马继续演讲，但那名男子并没有就此罢休。“你有权停止遣返这个国家的所有非法移民，”他说。
The president turned to address him. “Actually, I don’t,” he said. “And that’s why we’re here.”
总统转过身，以便和他说话。“事实上，我没有这样的权力，”他说，“这正是我们今天站在这里的原因。”
As the event’s organizers tried to remove the man, Mr. Obama signaled no. “I respect the passion of these young people because they feel deeply about the concerns for their families,” he said. But, he continued, the United States is a nation of laws, and “it is not simply a matter of us just saying we’re going to violate the law.”
活动组织方试图赶走那名男子，奥巴马却示意不要这么做。“我尊重这些年轻人的激情，因为他们为自己家人的遭遇深有感触，”他说。但他接着表示，美国是一个法治国家，“我们只是说自己不愿遵守相关的法律，并不能解决问题”。
In his remarks, Mr. Obama reiterated his support for an immigration overhaul split into multiple pieces of legislation, as House Republicans have proposed.
在讲话中，奥巴马重申，自己支持众议院共和党人的提议，亦即将移民法律改革分散到多项立法当中。
“We can carve that bird if you want,” said Mr. Obama, who will pardon a Thanksgiving turkey on Wednesday after he returns to Washington. “Drumstick here, breast meat there — as long as all the pieces get done soon.”
“如果你愿意，我们不妨把这只鸡切开，”奥巴马说。本周三，回到华盛顿的奥巴马将会赦免一只感恩节火鸡。“这是鸡腿，那是鸡胸，只要所有部分都能快速就绪就行。”
His acceptance of a piecemeal approach is part of an effort to keep immigration legislation alive after House Republican leaders made it clear they would not accept the broad framework of the bipartisan bill the Senate passed this year. They compared that measure to Mr. Obama’s health care law, saying it was another unwieldy federal program full of hidden mandates and poorly understood provisions.
他之所以接受化整为零的方式，为的是避免移民法案走入死胡同。此前，众议院共和党领袖明确表示，不会接受参议院今年通过的那项两党议案列出的大框架。他们把它比作奥巴马的医改法案，称它是又一个庞大且难以控制的联邦计划，充满了隐秘授权和未得到充分理解的条款。
But some in the Republican Party are warning their colleagues to express their objections carefully, and not just for fear of alienating Latino voters.
但是，部分共和党人告诫自己的同僚，表达反对意见的时候要小心。他们这么做，还不只是因为害怕疏远拉美裔选民。
Asia has passed Latin America in recent years as the largest source of immigrants to the United States. “On the national level, at least on the presidential, you’ve seen throughout the years more and more support for the Democratic Party,” said Christine Chen, the executive director of the nonpartisan group Asian and Pacific Islander American Vote. But “even a month before the election, 30 percent of our electorate that was polled was actually undecided.”
近些年，亚洲已经超过拉丁美洲，成为了美国外来移民最大的输出地区。无党派团体亚太岛屿裔美国人投票组织(Asian and Pacific Islander American Vote)的执行主任陈棣芳(Christine Chen)说，“从国家层面来看，至少是从总统选举的层面来看，你们都已经发现，多年以来，对民主党的支持越来越大。”可是，“即便是在离选举只有一个月的时候，接受民调的选民之中，依然有30%实际上没有作出决定。”
Shawn Steel, a Republican committeeman from California who has pressed his party to reach out to Asian-American voters, said that many Asians were trapped in a bureaucratic backlog even though “they followed the rules, they paid the fees, they had the interviews.”
来自加州、代表本党联络亚裔美国选民的共和党全国委员会委员肖恩·斯蒂尔(Shawn Steel)说，许多亚洲人即使“遵纪守法、照章纳税并接受面试”，依然会陷入申请积压的官僚主义困境。
“Largely because of the inefficient immigration policy, they are being denied an expedited hearing,” Mr. Steel said. He argued that an “aggressive amnesty” would give a “special favoritism to those that did not wait in line,” which would be unfair to many Asians.
斯蒂尔说，“主要是因为低效的移民政策，他们的申请得不到及时的处理。”他提出，“力度过大的特赦”会使“不排队的申请者受到特殊照顾”，对许多亚洲人来说是不公平的。
The broad bipartisan bill that passed the Senate in June offers major benefits for Asian immigrants but also includes provisions that could reduce future immigration from some Asian countries.
参议院今年6月通过的两党提案内容广泛，给亚洲移民提供了重要的福利，但也纳入了可能会使部分亚洲国家前来美国的移民数目减少的条款。
The bill would eliminate the cap on the number of residency visas, known as green cards, available each year for spouses and children of legal permanent residents, a group that includes many Asian immigrants. It would also eliminate within 10 years the current backlog of more than four million foreigners who applied through legal channels and have been waiting, in many cases for a decade or more, for green cards. Under those terms, foreigners who had been waiting the longest for family and employment green cards, including many Asians, could receive their visas quickly.
该提案将去除对合法永久居民的配偶和子女能获得的居留签证（也被称为绿卡）的年度数额限制，这个群体中包括了许多亚洲移民。提案还会在10年之内消化目前积压未办的申请，目前有超过400万外国人通过合法途径申请了绿卡，并一直在等待，许多人已经等待了10年，甚至是更久的时间。根据这些条款，等待家庭绿卡和就业绿卡时间最长的外国人不久就会收到签证，这些人当中包括许多亚洲人。
But the bill would also eliminate categories of green cards for siblings of United States citizens and for married sons or daughters of citizens who are over 30 years old. Many Asian immigrants have applied through those categories, and Asian-American groups opposed those provisions.
不过，提案还去除了为美国公民的兄弟姐妹及超过30岁的已婚子女提供的绿卡签证类别。许多亚洲移民已通过这些签证类别提出了申请，一些亚裔美国人团体对上述条款提出了反对。
The young man at the immigration event was not the only one asking Mr. Obama to make changes unilaterally. At the first of two events for Democratic Party contributors in San Francisco, a man repeatedly yelled “executive order” as the president discussed impediments to his agenda.
请求奥巴马单方面修改提案的并不只有前述移民演讲事件中的那个年轻人。旧金山为民主党捐助者举行了两场活动，第一场活动当中，当总统谈到他的议程遇到的障碍时，一名男子便反复叫喊“行政命令”。