EDGARTOWN, Mass. — President Obama said Monday that Iraq had taken a “promising step forward” in forming a more inclusive government even as Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki appeared to resist efforts to replace him as the country’s leader.
马萨诸塞州埃德加敦——奥巴马总统周一表示，尽管伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)似乎在抗拒让别人取代他，担任国家领导人的努力，但在组建一个更具包容性的政府这一点上，伊拉克“迈出了很有前景的一步”。
Speaking briefly to reporters from his vacation home on Martha’s Vineyard, Mr. Obama did not mention Mr. Maliki but pledged his support for Haider al-Abadi, the man chosen to succeed him. And Mr. Obama vowed to step up his support for a new government in its intensifying fight against Sunni militants.
在玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha’s Vineyard)的度假别墅对记者发表简短讲话时，奥巴马并未提及马利基，但承诺会支持海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)，他是经过选择将取代马利基的人选。奥巴马还宣称，他将加大对新政府的支持力度，从而加紧对逊尼派武装分子的打击。
“There will be difficult days ahead,” Mr. Obama said. “We stand ready to partner with Iraq in its fight against these terrorist forces.”
“未来会有艰难的时刻，”奥巴马说。“我们随时准备与伊拉克合作，共同打击这些恐怖主义势力。”
The president spoke as the president of Iraq, Fuad Masum, named Mr. Abadi to succeed Mr. Maliki as prime minister. It was less than a day after Mr. Maliki demanded in a television address that the nation’s army come to the defense of the constitution and his right to stay in the office he has held for eight years.
奥巴马发表此番讲话之时，伊拉克总统福阿德·马苏姆(Fuad Masum)任命了阿巴迪取代马利基担任总理。不到一天前，马利基还曾在电视讲话中要求该国军队捍卫宪法，保护他留任总理的正当权利。马利基担任伊拉克总理已有八年时间。
Mr. Obama has previously said that support for the Iraqi government is dependent on a new government that includes all of the country’s factions to unify against the militants. In his remarks Monday evening, Mr. Obama praised Iraq’s leadership for beginning the process of building that government.
奥巴马此前曾表示，美国对伊拉克新政府的支持，取决于它能不能包容国内的各个派系，团结起来共同对抗武装分子。周一晚上，奥巴马在讲话中赞扬伊拉克领导层已经开始了组建这样一个政府的过程。
“Today, Iraq took a promising step forward in this critical effort,” Mr. Obama said.
奥巴马说，“今天，伊拉克在这样一个关键行动中，迈出了很有前景的一步。”
The president said the United States military had stepped up its assistance to Iraqi and Kurdish forces, but he was not specific about what that assistance included. He said American forces continued to try and rescue Iraqi refugees who are trapped on Mount Sinjar, surrounded by militants.
奥巴马说，美国已经加大了对伊拉克和库尔德武装力量的援助，但是他并未明确指出这些援助的具体内容。他说，美国部队仍在试图营救被困在辛贾尔山(Mount Sinjar)的伊拉克难民，这座山受到了武装分子的包围。