PARIS — The revelation that the 29-year-old man who opened fire on Sunday in a gay nightclub had dedicated the killing to the Islamic State has prompted a now-familiar question: Was the killer truly acting under orders from the Islamic State, or just seeking publicity and the group’s approval for a personal act of hate?
巴黎——周日，一名29岁的男子在一家同性恋夜店开枪杀人，以伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的名义开展了这次杀戮行动。这导致一个老问题被再次提起：杀手是真正在奉伊斯兰国的命令行事，还是只是想引起注意，寻求该组织对个人仇恨行径的认可？
For the terror planners of the Islamic State, the difference is mostly irrelevant.
对于伊斯兰国的恐怖策划者来说，这其中的差别无关紧要。
Influencing distant attackers to pledge allegiance to the Islamic State and then carry out mass murder has become a core part of the group’s propaganda over the past two years. It is a purposeful blurring of the line between operations that are planned and carried out by the terror group’s core fighters and those carried out by its sympathizers.
在过去两年里，对远方的攻击者施加影响，让他们宣誓效忠伊斯兰国，然后开展大规模谋杀行动的做法，逐渐成为该组织宣传活动的核心。这是有意要模糊伊斯兰国核心武装分子发动的有计划行动与同情者自行采取的行动之间的界限。
The attacker, Omar Mateen, told a 911 operator that he was pledging allegiance to the Islamic State. In the group’s nomenclature, that pledge is a central part of the ISIS protocol. The Orlando killing was the third time the loyalty pledge was known to be invoked in the United States.
奥兰多枪击案的凶手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)对911接线员说，他宣誓效忠伊斯兰国。在该组织的术语中，这是伊斯兰国仪式的核心部分。根据已知情况，奥兰多案是美国第三次有人进行这种宣誓效忠。
In December when a couple in San Bernardino, Calif., left their home armed with assault rifles, they made sure to post their oath of allegiance on Facebook, where law enforcement agents later found it. And just minutes before he opened fire on a cartoon exhibit featuring images of the Prophet Muhammad in Texas in May 2015, Elton Simpson sent out a series of Twitter messages making clear where his allegiances lay.
去年12月，加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺一对夫妇携带冲锋枪离开家时，特地在Facebook上发布了效忠誓词，此事后来才被执法人员发现。2015年5月，在德克萨斯州一个以先知穆罕默德为主题的漫画展上，埃尔顿·辛普森(Elton Simpson)在开枪的几分钟前，也用Twitter发了一系列宣誓效忠的帖子。
This public oath is about the only requirement that the Islamic State imposes on followers who wish to carry out acts of terror in its name. In an annual speech, the terror group’s spokesman, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, last month incited its supporters to carry out killings abroad during the holy month of Ramadan.
对于那些希望以伊斯兰国的名义开展恐怖行动的追随者，这样的公开宣誓是伊斯兰国对他们提出的几乎唯一要求。上个月，伊斯兰国的发言人阿布·穆罕默德·阿德纳尼(Abu Mohammed al-Adnani)发表了一年一度的讲话，煽动支持者们斋月期间在海外进行杀戮。
No attack is too small, he advised, specifically naming the United States as a target. “The smallest action you do in the heart of their land is dearer to us than the largest action by us,” he said, “and more effective and more damaging to them.”
他说袭击不分大小，而且还特别把美国指定为目标。“你在他们领土的心脏采取的最小行动，也会比我们做出的最大动作更受我们珍视，”他说，“更加有效，对他们的打击更大。”
As early as September 2014, Mr. Adnani made clear that anyone and everyone could, and should, carry out acts of terror in the group’s name. “Do not ask for anyone’s permission,” he said, and suggested that sympathizers who could not buy weapons should instead use rocks, knives or even cars to kill infidels.
早在2014年9月，阿德纳尼就明确表示，任何人、每个人都可以而且应该以该组织的名义开展恐怖行动。“不需要获得任何人的许可，”他说。阿德纳尼还建议那些不能购买武器的同情者使用石头、刀具乃至汽车来杀死异教徒。
Since then, the group has worked hard to create a mechanism for inciting terror in situ. It floods the internet with gory propaganda, and employs an army of keyboard jihadists to push the deadly message on Twitter, Facebook and other social media.
自那时起，该组织就在努力构造一种煽动就地进行恐怖活动的机制。它在互联网上大量发布血腥宣传资料，并雇佣了一支键盘上的圣战大军，在Twitter、Facebook和其他社交媒体上传播有毒的消息。
In this case, there was a stark resonance between Islamic State propaganda and the killer’s choice of target. The jihadist group has publicized its hatred of homosexuals, including releasing images of fighters killing people suspected of being gay by throwing them off tall buildings.
在这种情况下，伊斯兰国宣传的内容和杀手选择的目标之间形成了强烈的关联。伊斯兰国一直在公开表达对同性恋者的仇恨，包括发布圣战分子把疑似同性恋者从高楼上推下处死的影像。
Once the recruit is caught, or killed, law enforcement officials struggle to put the pieces back together. Yet the fact that there is often no direct link back to the core is intended to protect the organization in an age of surveillance.
这种受到感召的人被捉住，或者身亡之后，执法人员也很难把碎片重新拼回到一起。然而，在这个监控器遍地的时代，他们与核心圣战者常常没有直接联系的做法，是为了保护这个组织。
“I think what the Islamic State has done is very clever, and that is create a situation where someone can carry out an attack without any direct link to the organization,” said Charlie Winter, senior research associate at Georgia State University’s Transcultural Conflict and Violence Initiative. “They can pledge allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi before or during, and that catapults them from being a self-starter jihadist guy, or girl, to someone who can be lionized as a soldier of the Islamic State and regarded as a warrior.”
“我认为伊斯兰国做得很狡猾的地方就是，他们创造一种情景，让一个和它没有直接联系的人可以自行开展袭击，”乔治亚州立大学跨文化冲突与暴力项目高级副研究员查利·温特(Charlie Winter)说。“这些人只要在行动之前或之中向阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi)宣誓效忠，就可以从自发的圣战男女，立即升华为伊斯兰国的斗士而获得尊荣。”
On Sunday, after it was known that Mr. Mateen had invoked ISIS, the group’s official news agency issued a bulletin quoting “a source” confirming that Mr. Mateen was acting on the Islamic State’s behalf.
周日的时候，在马廷宣誓效忠伊斯兰国的消息公布之后，该组织的官方通讯社发布公告，称“一个消息来源”证实马廷的确是以伊斯兰国的名义开展了行动。