WASHINGTON — President Obama on Monday unveiled an aggressive plan to sharply limit greenhouse gases emitted by the nation’s power plants, declaring that time was running out to thwart the most dangerous impacts of global climate change.
华盛顿——本周一，奥巴马公布了一个大刀阔斧的计划，严格限制美国发电厂排放温室气体。他表示，要阻止全球气候变化带来的最危险影响，我们所剩的时日已经不多。
“No challenge poses a greater threat to our future and future generations than a changing climate,” Mr. Obama said in a speech from the East Room of the White House as he announced his most ambitious action to date to tackle the planet’s rising temperatures. “There is such a thing as being too late when it comes to climate change.”
“对于我们的未来和子孙后代，其他任何变化带来的威胁都不及气候变化大，”奥巴马在白宫东厅发表演讲时说，“在气候变化问题上，‘为时已晚’这种事不是不可能的。”他宣布的这个阻止全球变暖的计划，是他上任以来最雄心勃勃的一个。
The president, who wants to make his initiatives to address the warming of the planet a central element of his legacy, called the new rules a public health imperative and “the single most important step America has ever taken in the fight against global climate change.” He also sought to wrap the policy in the legitimacy of transcendental values, noting that Pope Francis had issued an encyclical in June, calling action on the issue a “moral obligation.”
奥巴马希望自己开启的解决全球变暖问题的行动，会对以后各界政府产生重要影响。他称这些新的规则不仅从公共卫生的角度来说势在必行，而且也是“美国在全球气候变化斗争中采取过的最重要行动”。他还试图用超验主义价值的正当性来包装这项政策：他提到，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)6月曾发出通谕，称在这个问题上采取行动是一种“道义责任”。
Even as Mr. Obama acknowledged the steep resistance from coal-producing states and industry critics to a plan that could lead to the closing of hundreds of polluting coal-fired plants, he said it was up to the United States to adopt tough standards so that other countries like China would feel compelled to take similar steps.
尽管奥巴马承认，这个政策可能导致数以百计的重污染燃煤电厂被关闭，因此面临着产煤大州和行业批评人士的巨大阻力，但他仍然表示，美国需要采取严苛的标准，以便让其他国家感到有必要采取类似措施，例如中国。
“When the world faces its toughest challenges, America leads the way forward,” the president said. “That’s what this plan is about.”
“当这个世界面临最严峻的挑战时，美国就会引领前进的方向，”奥巴马说。“这就是这个计划的意义所在。”
Mr. Obama said he would spend much of August talking about climate change, including during a trip later this month when he will become the first American president to visit the Alaskan Arctic.
奥巴马说，他会在8月花很多时间来谈论气候变化问题，包括本月晚些时候到阿拉斯加北极区的时候。他将成为第一个前往那里的美国总统。
The rules, a final, stricter version of a proposed plan that the Environmental Protection Agency announced in 2012 and 2014, assigns each state a target for reducing its carbon pollution from power plants. States will be allowed to create their own plans to meet the requirements and will have to submit initial versions of their plans by 2016 and final versions by 2018.
这些政策措施源于美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）2012年和2014年发布的一个计划，其提议是给各州分配一个减少电厂碳污染的目标，但这个最终版本更加严格一些。各州可以自己制定计划来达到要求，计划初版在2016年提交，最终版在2018年提交。
The most aggressive of the regulations requires that by 2030, the nation’s existing power plants must cut emissions by 32 percent from 2005 levels, which is an increase from the 30 percent target proposed in the draft regulation.
法规中最严厉的一条要求，是到2030年，全美发电厂的碳排放量必须在2005年的水平上削减32%，相对于法规草案中提出的30%，这更进了一步。
Even before the president began speaking, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said he would do everything in his power to combat the rules, which he said the president had crafted because he was “tired of having to work with the Congress the people elected.”
肯塔基州共和党参议员、多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在奥巴马讲话之前就已经表示，他会竭尽所能地反对这些法规，他称总统制定这些法规，是因为他已经对“必须与人民选出来的国会合作感到厌烦”。
“That’s why the administration is now trying to impose these deeply regressive regulations — regulations that may be illegal, that won’t meaningfully impact the global environment, and that are likely to harm middle- and lower-class Americans most — by executive fiat,” Mr. McConnell said.
麦康奈尔表示，“这就是为什么政府现在试图通过发布行政命令，实行极度倒退的监管——而且可能是非法的，不会对全球环境产生富有意义的影响，而且可能会给中低收入的美国人带来最大伤害。”
“It represents a triumph of blind ideology over sound policy and honest compassion,” he added.
他还表示，“这代表着盲目的思想击败了明智的政策和诚恳的同情。”
Mr. Obama scoffed at the criticism of the plan, dismissing it as the “same stale arguments” from skeptics trying to thwart progress.
奥巴马嘲弄针对该计划的批评，称这是跟试图阻碍进步的怀疑论者“一样的陈旧观点”。
“The kinds of criticisms that you’re going to hear are simply excuses for inaction,” he said.
他说，“你们将要听到的批评，只是不作为的借口。”
If the plan survives legal challenges, it could lead to the shuttering of many coal-fired plants, freeze future construction of others, and lead to an explosion in production of wind and solar energy.
如果该计划经受住法律上的挑战，可能会导致很多燃煤电厂关门，并阻止未来建设更多燃煤电厂，促使风能和太阳能产量大增。
“We’re the last generation that can do something about it,” Mr. Obama said of climate change. Failing to address the problem, he added, would “be shameful of us. This is our moment to get this right and leave something better for our kids.”
“我们是能够为此做些事情的最后一代人，”奥巴马提到气候变化时说。他还表示，无法解决这个问题会“让我们感到羞耻。我们现在应该做好这件事情，给我们的孩子留下一个更美好的世界。”