WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday said he would nominate Merrick B. Garland as the nation’s 113th Supreme Court justice, choosing a centrist appeals court judge for the lifetime appointment and daring Republican senators to refuse consideration of a jurist who is highly regarded throughout Washington.
华盛顿——美国总统奥巴马周三表示，他将提名梅里克·B·加兰德(Merrick B. Garland)为国家的第113位最高法院大法官，选择一位中间派上诉法院法官来担任这个终身任命，谅共和党参议员们不敢拒绝考虑这位在整个华盛顿都备受尊敬的法学家。
Mr. Obama introduced Judge Garland to an audience of his family members, activists, and White House staff in the Rose Garden Wednesday morning, describing him as exceptionally qualified to serve on the Supreme Court in the seat vacated by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February.
奥巴马周三上午在玫瑰园向观众介绍了加兰德法官，就座者包括他的家庭成员、社会活动人士，以及白宫工作人员，奥巴马把加兰德描述为非常有资格填补最高法院大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)空出的席位，斯卡利亚在二月去世。
The president said Judge Garland is “widely recognized not only as one of America’s sharpest legal minds, but someone who brings to his work a spirit of decency, modesty, integrity, even-handedness and excellence. These qualities and his long commitment to public service have earned him the respect and admiration from leaders from both sides of the aisle.”
奥巴马总统说，加兰德法官“不仅被广泛承认是美国头脑最清晰的法学家之一，也是一位把彬彬有礼、谦逊、正直、不偏不倚和追求卓越的精神带到工作中来的人。这些品质以及他对公共服务的长期奉献为他赢得了来自两党领导人的尊重和敬佩。”
He added that Judge Garland “will ultimately bring that same character to bear on the Supreme Court, an institution on which he is uniquely prepared to serve immediately.”
总统补充说，加兰德法官“将最终把同样的品质带到最高法院，他对马上就到最高法院服务有格外的准备。”
Mr. Obama said it is tempting to make the confirmation process “an extension of our divided politics.” But he warned that “to go down that path would be wrong.”
奥巴马说，虽然让确认提名的过程变为“我们分歧政治的延伸”的做法很诱人，但他警告说，“走这条道路将是错误的。”
Mr. Obama demanded a fair hearing for Judge Garland and said that refusing to even consider his nomination would provoke “an endless cycle of more tit for tat” that would undermine the democratic process for years to come.
奥巴马要求让加兰德得到公正的听证，并表示根本拒绝考虑他的提名的做法将引发“更多针锋相对的无尽循环”，其后果是削弱未来好几年的民主进程。
“I simply ask Repbulicans in the Senate to give him a fair hearing, and then an up or down vote,” Mr. Obama said. “If you don’t, then it will not only be an abdication of the Senate’s constitutional duty, it will indicate a preocess for nominating and confirming judges that is beyond repair.”
“我只不过是要求参议院的共和党人给他一个公正的听证，然后对提名进行支持或反对的投票，”奥巴马说。“如果你们不这样做的话，那将不仅是放弃宪法赋予参议院的责任，也将意味着对提名和确认法官过程的一次无法修复的损害。”
In choosing Judge Garland, a well-known moderate who has drawn bipartisan support over decades, Mr. Obama was essentially daring Republicans to press their election-year confirmation fight over a judge many of them have publicly praised and who would be difficult for them to reject, particularly if a Democrat were to win the November presidential election and they faced the prospect of a more liberal nominee in 2017.
选择几十年来得到两党支持的著名温和派人士加兰德作为提名人，奥巴马基本上是谅共和党人不敢在大选年继续他们为确认一名法官进行斗争，许多共和党人曾公开称赞过这位提名人，因此很难拒绝他的提名，尤其是如果民主党赢得11月的总统大选的话，共和党人会在2017年面临一个更自由派人士的提名。
Judge Garland persevered through a lengthy political battle in the mid-1990s that delayed his own confirmation to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit by more than a year. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, argued at the time that the vacancy should not be filled.
加兰德曾经历了20世纪90年代中期的一场漫长的政治斗争，那场斗争让他本人成为美国哥伦比亚特区联邦巡回上诉法院法官的确认推迟了一年多，他坚持了下来。爱荷华州共和党参议员查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)曾在当时辨称，不该填补那个空缺的位置。
Twenty years later, Mr. Grassley and other Republicans are again standing in the way of Judge Garland’s appointment, arguing that the next president should be the one to pick the successor to Justice Scalia. Republicans in the Senate and on the presidential campaign trail vowed to stand firm against whomever Mr. Obama chose.
二十年后，格拉斯利及其他共和党人再次站出来阻止加兰德的提名，认为应该由下任总统来挑选斯卡利亚大法官的继任者。参议院及参加总统竞选活动的共和党人发誓要坚决抵制奥巴马提名的任何人选。
In remarks Monday, Mr. Obama chastised Republicans for taking that stand, demanding that the Republican-controlled Senate fulfill its responsibility to consider Judge Garland and hold a timely vote on his nomination. Do do anything else would be irresponsible, he said.
奥巴马在周一讲话中，严厉批评了共和党人采取的这种立场，要求共和党控制的参议院履行其责任，考虑加兰德的提名，并对提名进行及时表决。他说，任何其他做法将是不负责任的行为。
Judge Garland is often described as brilliant and, at 63, is somewhat older for a Supreme Court nominee. He is two years older than Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who has been with the court for more than 10 years. The two served together on the appeals court and are said to be friends.
现年63岁的加兰德常常被人们用杰出来描述，作为最高法院提名人他有点老。他比在最高法院担任首席大法官已有10年的小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)大两岁。他们两人曾一起担任上诉法院法官，据说是朋友。
Supreme Court nominees tend to be in their early 50s. In choosing Judge Garland, Mr. Obama very likely gave away the possibility of a justice who would serve on the Supreme Court perhaps three decades. Instead, he imposed a sort of actuarial term limit on the nomination and thus his legacy, offering Senate Republicans a compromise not only on ideology, but also on tenure.
最高法院提名人往往是50岁出头的人。选择加兰德，奥巴马很可能放弃了一个也许能在最高法院担任三十年大法官的可能选择。这样做，他等于给提名人、乃至于他自己的政治遗产强加了一个由精算寿命预期决定的任期限制，对共和党参议员做出了不仅是意识形态上、也是任期上的妥协。
The Oklahoma City bombing case in 1995 helped shape Judge Garland’s professional life. He coordinated the Justice Department’s response, starting the case against the bombers and eventually supervising their prosecution.
1995年的俄克拉荷马城爆炸事件对加兰德的职业生涯产生了很大影响。当时他负责协调司法部的应对，着手针对袭击者的指控，并最终监督检方完成检控。
Judge Garland insisted on being sent to the scene even as bodies were being pulled out of the wreckage, said Jamie S. Gorelick, then the deputy attorney general.
时任司法部副部长的杰米·S·戈雷利克(Jamie S. Gorelick)回忆，加兰德法官在工作人员还在清理尸骸时就要求前往爆炸现场。
“At the time, he said to me the equivalent of ‘Send me in, coach,’” Ms. Gorelick said. “He worked around the clock, and he was flawless.”
“当时，他对我说了‘派我去吧，头儿’之类的话，”戈雷利克说。“他工作起来不分昼夜，无可挑剔。”
White House officials on Wednesday noted that Judge Garland was confirmed to his current post in 1997 with the support of seven sitting Republicans: Senators Dan Coats of Indiana, Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Susan Collins of Maine, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, John McCain of Arizona, Pat Roberts of Kansas.
周三，白宫官员指出，1997年加兰德的现任职位提名获得确认时，得到了七名现任共和党参议员的支持：印第安纳州的丹·科茨(Dan Coats)、密西西比州的萨德·科克伦(Thad Cochran)、缅因州的苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)、犹他州的奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)、俄克拉荷马州的詹姆斯·M·英霍夫(James M. Inhofe)、亚利桑那州的约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和堪萨斯州的帕特·罗伯茨(Pat Roberts)。
In an email on Wednesday just before Mr. Obama was to appear in the Rose Garden to formally nominate him, one official said that Mr. Hatch said this year that Mr. Obama “could easily name Merrick Garland, who is a fine man.” They noted that Mr. Hatch was quoted in 2010 as saying that Judge Garland would be a “consensus nominee” if he had been picked that year.
就在奥巴马出现在玫瑰园正式宣布对加兰德的提名之前，在周三向外界分发的邮件中，一名白宫官员称，哈奇曾在今年表示，奥巴马“可以放心地提名梅里克·加兰德，他是个很不错的人。”他们指出，哈奇还曾在2010年说，如果那一年加兰德被提名为大法官，会是“一致认可的提名人”。
The White House also cited positive comments about Judge Garland from Chief Justice Roberts, the Republican governors of Oklahoma and Iowa, and former Republican officials in the Justice Department.
白宫还援引了首席大法官罗伯茨、俄克拉荷马和艾奥瓦州的共和党州长，以及司法部多名前任共和党官员曾经对加兰德法官做出的正面评价。
Because of his position, disposition and bipartisan popularity, Judge Garland has been on Mr. Obama’s shortlist of potential nominees for years. In 2010, when Mr. Obama interviewed him for the slot that he instead gave to Justice Elena Kagan, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said publicly that he had urged Mr. Obama to nominate Judge Garland as “a consensus nominee” who would win Senate confirmation.
鉴于他职位、性情都很合适，而且在两党都颇受欢迎，加兰德法官被列入奥巴马的潜在提名人短名单上已有好几个年头了。2010年，奥巴马曾就提名该职位约谈加兰德，不过他后来把名额给了埃琳娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)。犹他州参议员、共和党人奥林·G·哈奇那个时候公开表示，他曾力促奥巴马提名加兰德，因为他是“一致认可的提名人”，会在参议院获得通过。
“I know Merrick Garland very well,” Mr. Hatch said at the time. “He would be very well supported by all sides.”
“我非常了解梅里克·加兰德，”哈奇当时说。“他会得到各方的大力支持。”
In an email to supporters early Wednesday morning, Mr. Obama said he considered three principles in making his choice: whether the person possessed “an independent mind, unimpeachable credentials and an unquestionable mastery of law”; whether the nominee recognized “the limits of the judiciary’s role”; and whether his choice understood that “justice is not about abstract legal theory, nor some footnote in a dusty casebook.”
在周三早上发给支持者的邮件中，奥巴马表示，在做出这一选择时，他主要考虑了三方面的因素：提名人是否有“独立的头脑、无可指摘的资历和对法律毫无疑问的精通”；提名人是否认识到“大法官这一角色的局限”；以及提名人是否明白“司法既不是抽象的法律理论，也不是积灰的案例记录上的某个脚注。”
Mr. Obama said that he was “confident you’ll share my conviction that this American is not only eminently qualified to be a Supreme Court justice, but deserves a fair hearing and an up-or-down vote.”
奥巴马称，“相信你们也会认同，此人不仅极为适合担任最高法院大法官，而且应该得到公正的听证和直接的表决。”
The White House has created a new Twitter handle, he said —@SCOTUSnom — and he urged people to follow it for “all the facts and up-to-date information.”
他表示，白宫创建了一个新的Twitter账号@SCOTUSnom，他敦促人们关注这一账号，以便获得“所有相关事实和最新消息”。
At a news conference on Thursday, Mr. Obama said that Republicans must “decide whether they want to follow the Constitution and abide by the rules of fair play that ultimately undergird our democracy and that ensure that the Supreme Court does not just become one more extension of our polarized politics.”
奥巴马新闻发布会上表示，共和党必须“决定他们是否愿意遵守宪法，是否坚持公平原则。这一原则从根本上巩固我们的民主，确保最高法院不会成为政治分歧的又一延伸。”
Republican senators have urged the president to hold off on a nomination, saying the next president should make the pick after voters express their preference in the presidential election. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has repeatedly said he would oppose any nomination until next year.
共和党参议员一直敦促奥巴马延迟大法官提名，表示应该在选民在总统竞选中表达自己的偏好之后，再由下一任总统挑选提名人。肯塔基州参议员、共和党领导人米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)反复强调，他会反对今年出现的任何提名人选。
“President Obama is getting dangerously close to narrowing down the field of potential candidates for nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court,” Mr. McConnell warned his supporters in a fund-raising appeal last month.
“奥巴马总统越来越像是在缩小美国最高法院大法官潜在提名人的范围，这是很危险的，”在上月举行的一场筹款活动上，麦康奈尔如此警告他的支持者。
The outcome of the Washington clash could determine whether Mr. Obama gets to set the direction of American jurisprudence for decades. After the death last month of Mr. Scalia, a leading conservative, the court is evenly divided, with four liberal justices and four conservatives. A new justice appointed by Mr. Obama could be the deciding vote in several close cases.
华盛顿此番冲突的结果，可能会决定奥巴马能否为美国未来几十年的法庭判例设置方向。自保守派领袖人物斯卡利亚大法官在上月去世以后，最高法院陷入势均力敌的状态，分别有四名自由派大法官和四名保守派大法官。由奥巴马委任的新人选有望在两派观点持平的几个案例中成为决定性一票。