LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — Divers here have recovered the body of a 2-year-old Nebraska boy who was dragged away by an alligator at a Disney resort, the county sheriff said Wednesday.
佛罗里达州比尤纳维斯塔湖——县警长表示，潜水员在这里打捞到一名2岁男孩的尸体。男孩来自内布拉斯加州，本周三在一座迪士尼乐园被鳄鱼拖走。
The Orange County sheriff, Jerry L. Demings, said at an afternoon news conference that the body of the boy, who was identified as Lane Graves of Elkhorn, Nebraska, had been found by a Sheriff’s Department dive team and was recovered about 3:30 p.m. Wednesday. His parents, Matt and Melissa Graves of Elkhorn, west of Omaha, were told a short time later.
橙县警长杰里·德明斯(Jerry L. Demings)在下午的新闻发布会上表示，男孩名为莱恩·格雷夫斯(Lane Graves)，来自内布拉斯加的埃尔克霍恩，警局的潜水队发现了他的尸体，并在周三下午3点30分左右打捞起来。他们很快把这个消息通知了孩子的父母马特和梅利莎·格雷夫斯(Matt and Melissa Graves)。这家人生活的埃尔克霍恩位于奥马哈以西。
Lane’s body was found near where he was last seen, Demings said, adding that it took time to search the water, which he described as murky. “The autopsy has to confirm that, but there’s likely no question in my mind that the child was drowned by the alligator,” he said, adding that the body was found intact.
莱恩的尸体是在他最后一次露面的不远处发现的。德明斯表示这片水域很阴暗，搜索花费了不少时间。“必须通过尸检来确认，但我觉得基本上没有疑问，孩子是被鳄鱼拖走淹死的，”他说，尸体发现的时候完好无损。
The recovery ended a search that began shortly after 9 p.m. Tuesday on the beach of the Seven Seas Lagoon at Disney’s Grand Floridian Resort and Spa. The artificial lake, which covers about 200 acres, is 14 feet deep in parts and feeds a series of canals that wind through the Disney complex. It lies across from Disney’s Magic Kingdom theme park.
搜索工作于周二晚上刚过9点开始，地点是迪士尼佛罗里达温泉度假大酒店(Grand Floridian Resort and Spa)的七海泻湖(Seven Seas Lagoon)沙滩附近。这座人工湖占地约200英亩，位于迪士尼魔法王国(Magic Kingdom)主题公园对面，有些地方深达14英尺，有一系列水道与迪士尼建筑群相连。
The boy had waded into the water at the edge of the lagoon with his mother, father and 4-year-old sister when the alligator pulled him away, the sheriff said.
警长表示，男孩当时正与父母和4岁的姐姐一起在泻湖边上趟水，一条鳄鱼拖走了他。
“I believe what this 2-year-old was doing is what perhaps any 2-year-old might be doing as well,” the sheriff said.
“我相信，这个2岁孩子只是做了任何一个2岁小孩可能做的事，”警长说。
“The father entered the water and tried to grab the child and was not successful in doing so,” Demings said. He said the child’s mother might also have gone into the water to help. The father alerted a lifeguard, he said.
“父亲冲进水里，试图夺回孩子，但没有成功，”德明斯说。他还表示，孩子的母亲可能也进入了水中帮忙。父亲呼叫了救生员，他说。
Jeff Williamson, a spokesman for the sheriff’s office, said the lifeguard on duty was “too far away, unfortunately.” The father “was able to get over there quickly and a struggle did ensue,” Williamson said, adding that the father “had minor lacerations to his arm.”
警长办公室发言人杰夫·威廉姆森(Jeff Williamson)说，可惜的是，值班的救生员当时“离得太远”。孩子父亲“迅速下水和鳄鱼搏斗，”威廉姆森说，“他的胳膊被轻微划伤。”
The family had been visiting the Orlando area since Sunday.
这家人从周日起就一直待在奥兰多地区。
Jacquee Wahler, vice president of the Walt Disney World Resort, said the resort had closed its beaches for now.
华特·迪士尼世界度假区(Walt Disney World Resort)的副总裁杰奎·瓦勒尔(Jacquee Wahler)表示，该度假区暂时关闭了沙滩。
“Everyone here at the Walt Disney World Resort is devastated by this tragic accident,” she said in an emailed statement. “Our thoughts are with the family. We are helping the family and doing everything we can to assist law enforcement.”
“华特·迪士尼世界度假区的所有人都为这起悲剧感到痛心，”她在电子邮件声明中说。“我们对这家人表示慰问。我们正在为他们提供帮助，竭尽所能地配合执法人员工作。”
Demings said that no such attack had been recorded at the lagoon before and that no “nuisance alligators” had been reported in the area recently.
德明斯称，这座泻湖之前从未发生过鳄鱼袭击事件，最近该地区也没有听说过“鳄鱼扰民”的事情。
Nick Wiley, executive director of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, said that alligator attacks were “not common at all” but that alligators are capable of moving across land and underwater so fencing them off is not a feasible option.
佛罗里达州鱼类与野生动物保护委员会(Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission)的执行总监尼克·威利(Nick Wiley)说，这起鳄鱼袭击事件“非常罕见”，但鳄鱼可以在陆上和水下活动，所以用护栏把它们隔开的办法并不可行。
Alligators are common in lakes in Central Florida. In 2015, the area had its first reported fatal alligator attack since 2007. The body of a swimmer, James Okkerse, 61, of DeBary, Florida, was pulled from a lake in Volusia County, north of Orlando, and he was determined to have been attacked by a 12-foot alligator that was later shot and killed.
鳄鱼在佛罗里达州中部的湖泊中很常见。2015年，该地区出现了自2007年以来的第一起鳄鱼袭击致人死亡报道。遇害者是61岁的詹姆斯·欧克斯(James Okkerse)，来自佛罗里达州徳拜瑞，当时正在游泳。他的尸体在奥兰多以北沃卢夏县的一个湖中被打捞起来，据信是遭到了一条12英尺长的鳄鱼袭击。肇事鳄鱼后来遭击毙。
The county medical examiner found that the death of Okkerse, who had disappeared while swimming in Blue Spring State Park, was consistent with an alligator attack.
欧克斯是在蓝泉州立公园(Blue Spring State Park)游泳的时候失踪的，该县验尸官认为他的死因与鳄鱼攻击相符。
Also last year, a 22-year-old man, who law enforcement officials said was trying to avoid capture during a burglary, was killed by an 11-foot alligator in Brevard County, east of Orlando. The man, Matthew Riggins, had drowned, the Brevard County sheriff’s office said, and his body showed signs of having been mauled. Divers from the sheriff’s office encountered an aggressive alligator that was trapped and killed.
同样在去年，一名22岁的男子在奥兰多以东的布里瓦德县被一条11英尺长的鳄鱼袭击致死。执法人员表示，此人涉嫌盗窃，在逃避追捕的过程中遇到鳄鱼。布里瓦德县警长办公室称，这个名叫马修·里金斯(Matthew Riggins)的男子是被淹死的，尸体上有咬伤痕迹。警长办公室派出的潜水员遇到了一只攻击性很强的鳄鱼，于是逮住并处死了它。