WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama warned Donald J. Trump against hiring Michael T. Flynn to be part of his national security team when Mr. Obama met with his successor in the Oval Office two days after the November election, two former Obama administration officials said on Monday.
华盛顿——两名前奥巴马政府的官员周一表示，11月的选举结束两天后，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统在椭圆形办公室与继任者唐纳德·J·特朗普会面时，曾提醒后者不要让迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)加入其国家安全团队。
Mr. Obama, who had fired Mr. Flynn as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, told Mr. Trump that he would have profound concerns about Mr. Flynn becoming a top national security aide, said the administration officials, who were briefed on the Oval Office conversation. Mr. Trump later ignored the advice, naming Mr. Flynn to be his national security adviser.
了解椭圆形办公室那次交谈情况的相关官员称，曾把弗林从国防情报局（Defense Intelligence Agency，简称DIA）局长职位上解雇的奥巴马告诉特朗普，他对弗林成为最高国家安全助手一事深感担忧。特朗普后来没有理会这一建议，任命弗林为国家安全顾问。
Mr. Flynn was forced out of that position after it was revealed that he had lied to Vice President Mike Pence about his conversations with the Russian ambassador to the United States, amid a continuing investigation into connections between the Russian government and the Trump campaign.
在就俄罗斯政府与特朗普竞选团队之间的联系所做的持续调查中，弗林被爆出在与俄罗斯驻美大使的交谈问题上向副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)撒谎之后，被迫辞去国家安全顾问一职。
Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump met for the first time in the Oval Office on Nov. 10 in what both men later described as a cordial, 90-minute session in which the outgoing president pledged to do everything he could to support the transition to a new administration.
11月10日，奥巴马和特朗普在椭圆形办公室首次会面。事后，两人均表示长达90分钟的会面热情友好。会面期间，即将离任的奥巴马总统承诺尽一切努力，支持新政府的过渡工作。
Mr. Flynn’s name came up during a broader discussion about personnel issues, the former administration officials said. Mr. Obama’s concerns about Mr. Flynn, which were first reported by NBC News, were largely about his management of the D.I.A. and predated the later concerns about his contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak.
那两名前联邦政府官员称，在关于人事问题的广泛讨论中提到了弗林的名字。奥巴马对弗林的担忧，主要是关于他对DIA的管理，早于后来对他与俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)来往的担忧。NBC新闻(NBC News)最先报道了奥巴马的担忧。
But one of the former administration officials said that Mr. Obama was also aware of Mr. Flynn’s well-publicized trip in 2015 to Moscow and other contacts with Russia.
但其中一名前联邦政府官员称，奥巴马也知道弗林2015年那次广为人知的莫斯科之行，以及他与俄罗斯的其他往来。
The revelation on Monday about Mr. Obama’s warning came hours before Sally Q. Yates, the former acting attorney general, was scheduled to testify in the afternoon in front of a Senate committee that she later raised her own concerns about Mr. Flynn’s Russia contacts with the incoming Trump administration.
周一爆出奥巴马曾发出提醒一事几小时后，前代理司法部长莎莉·Q·耶茨(Sally Q. Yates)按计划于下午在参议院的一个委员会面前作证，指出她后来向特朗普政府提出过自己对弗林与俄罗斯来往的担忧。
Mr. Trump blamed Obama officials on Monday, saying in two Twitter messages that it was his predecessor’s administration that gave Mr. Flynn a security clearance.
特朗普周一指责奥巴马政府的官员，在两条推文中称正是前任政府给了弗林安全权限。
“General Flynn was given the highest security clearance by the Obama Administration — but the Fake News seldom likes talking about that,” Mr. Trump said.
“弗林中将在奥巴马政府那里给予了最高级别的安全权限，但‘假新闻’很少喜欢讨论这一点，”特朗普说。
In a second Twitter message, Mr. Trump added: “Ask Sally Yates, under oath, if she knows how classified information got into the newspapers soon after she explained it to W.H. Counsel.” An early version of the message misspelled “counsel.”
在第二条推文中，特朗普补充说：“让莎莉·耶茨宣誓，问她知不知道在她向白宫法律顾问作了解释后，机密信息是怎么很快就流向报纸的。”这条推文的早期版本把“法律顾问”(counsel)这个词拼错了。
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, told reporters Monday afternoon that it should not come as a surprise that Mr. Obama “wasn’t exactly a fan of General Flynn’s,” since Mr. Obama fired Mr. Flynn in 2014.
白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周一下午对记者表示，不应对奥巴马“完全不是弗林中将的粉丝”感到惊讶，因为奥巴马在2014年解雇了弗林。
And Mr. Spicer sought to cast doubt on Mr. Obama’s warning about Mr. Flynn, noting that the Obama administration had renewed Mr. Flynn’s security clearance in April 2016, well after Mr. Flynn’s departure from the D.I.A.
斯派塞还试图对奥巴马有关弗林的警告提出质疑，指出奥巴马政府在2016年4月更新了对弗林的安全权限，那时，弗林已离开DIA很久了。
“If President Obama was truly concerned about General Flynn, why didn’t they suspend his security clearance, which they approved just months earlier?” Mr. Spicer said during his daily press briefing.
“如果奥巴马总统真的担心弗林中将，他们为什么不取消几个月前批准的安全权限？”斯派塞在每天的新闻发布会上说。
“Not only did they reaffirm it, but they took no steps to suspend it,” Mr. Spicer said. He said that decision casts doubt on how vigorous Mr. Obama’s warning to Mr. Trump was during their meeting in November.
“他们不仅再次确认了他的安全权限，而且未采取措施取消，”斯派塞说。他表示，这个决定让人对奥巴马在11月会面期间给特朗普发出的提醒的坚决程度产生了疑问。