WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama sharply criticized the decision by his FBI director to alert Congress on Friday about the discovery of new emails related to the Hillary Clinton server case, implying that it violated investigative guidelines and trafficked in innuendo.
华盛顿——对于美国联邦调查局(FBI)局长在上周五决定提醒国会警惕新发现的与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)服务器案有关的电子邮件，贝拉克·奥巴马总统提出了严厉的批评，暗指其违反调查指导方针，散布暗示。
“We don’t operate on incomplete information,” Obama said in an interview with NowThis News. “We don’t operate on leaks. We operate based on concrete decisions that are made.”
“我们不能根据不完整的信息采取行动，”奥巴马在接受NowThis News的采访时说。“也不是根据泄露的风声。我们的行动是基于做出的具体决定。”
“When this was investigated thoroughly the last time, the conclusion of the FBI, the conclusion of the Justice Department, the conclusion of repeated congressional investigations was that she had made some mistakes but that there wasn’t anything there that was prosecutable,” Obama said.
“上次彻查此事时，联邦调查局的结论、司法部的结论和国会反复调查的结论都是，她是犯了一些错误，但不存在应该受到起诉的情况，”奥巴马说。
The president did not mention FBI Director James B. Comey, but it was clear Obama was referring to him.
虽未提及联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)的名字，但奥巴马总统明显指的是他。
Declaring that he had “made a very deliberate effort to make sure that I don’t look like I’m meddling in what are supposed to be independent processes for making these assessments,” Obama nonetheless expressed confidence in Clinton.
奥巴马宣称他“非常慎重，以确保我不会看起来像是在干涉做出这些评估的本应该独立进行的程序”。但他表示对克林顿有信心。
“I trust her,” he said. “I know her. And I wouldn’t be supporting her if I didn’t have absolute confidence in her integrity and her interest in making sure that young people have a better future.”
“我相信她，”他说。“我了解她。如果不是对她的正直和她有意确保年轻人有更美好的未来有绝对的信心，我也不会支持她。”
White House officials later downplayed Obama’s remarks about the FBI and insisted he had not meant to criticize Comey.
白宫的官员后来淡化了奥巴马有关联邦调查局的言论，并坚称他不是有意指责科米。
“The president went out of his way to say he wouldn’t comment on any particular investigations,” Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, told reporters on Air Force One while Obama was en route to North Carolina to campaign for Clinton.
“总统特地表示他不会评论任何特定的调查，”白宫发言人埃里克·舒尔茨(Eric Schultz)在“空军一号”上对记者表示。当时，奥巴马正在去北卡罗来纳州为克林顿竞选的路上。
For the last several days, the FBI has been analyzing emails belonging to Huma Abedin, a top adviser to Clinton. Agents discovered the emails last month in an unrelated investigation into Abedin’s estranged husband, the disgraced former congressman Anthony D. Weiner.
过去几天，联邦调查局一直在分析克林顿的高级顾问胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)的一些电子邮件。特工是在上月的一起不相关的调查中发现这些电子邮件的。那起调查的对象是阿贝丁已分居的丈夫、名誉扫地的前国会议员安东尼·D·韦纳(Anthony D. Weiner)。
In a letter to Congress, Comey said those emails might be pertinent to the investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server. Authorities concluded that case in July with no charges. But the letter, sent over the objection of the Justice Department, led to controversy because it deviated from long-standing guidelines.
在一封写给国会的信中，科米称这些电子邮件可能和克林顿使用私人电子邮箱服务器的调查有关。当局在7月审结了该案，未提出指控。但这封不顾司法部的反对寄出的信引起了争议，因为它背离了长期以来的原则。
It is increasingly unlikely that agents will finish their work on the emails by Election Day, FBI officials said. They said there was a chance they could offer updates before next Tuesday.
联邦调查局的官员称，越来越不太可能在选举日之前结束电子邮件方面的工作。他们说有可能在下周二之前给出最新进展。