UNITED NATIONS — President Obama, emboldened by the use of his executive powers to fight climate change at home, sought on Tuesday to marshal more than 100 world leaders behind a vast international effort to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and curb global warming.
联合国——周二，由于受到在国内动用行政权力抗击气候变化的鼓舞，奥巴马总统试图带领世界各国100多位领导人，开展一项广泛的国际行动，以减少温室气体排放，遏制全球变暖。
But Mr. Obama, in pledging that the United States would set ambitious new targets to cut emissions in advance of critical global climate talks next year, will leave much of the hard work to his successor, or even the president after that. And in many countries, the mechanisms for achieving deep cuts in carbon emissions remain as politically and economically difficult as ever.
奥巴马承诺，美国将在明年关键的全球气候会议举行之前，制定宏伟的减排新目标，但他此举将会把大量苦差事留给继任者，甚至是下下任总统。而且在许多国家，为大幅削减碳排放建立相应机制，在政治上和经济上都一如既往地困难。
“Yes, this is hard,” Mr. Obama said to the United Nations General Assembly chamber, “but there should be no question that the United States of America is stepping up to the plate.”
“是的，这件事不容易，”奥巴马在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的会议厅说，“但毋庸置疑，美国正在承担起责任。”
Nonetheless, he warned that the efforts would fail without significant cooperation from countries around the world. “We can only succeed in combating climate change if we are joined in this effort by every nation, developed and developing alike,” the president said. “Nobody gets a pass.”
然而，他警告称，没有世界各国的通力合作，这些努力可能会失败。“只有所有国家，无论是发达国家还是发展中国家，都加入这一行动，我们才能在抗击气候变化这件事上取得成功，”奥巴马总统说。“谁都不能逃避。”
“Today, I call on all countries to join us, not next year or the year after that, because no nation can meet this global threat alone,” he said.
“今天，我号召所有国家加入我们，而不是在明年或后年，因为没有哪个国家能独自面对这一全球威胁，”他说。
The daylong climate summit meeting, organized by the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, showcased how climate change has become a genuinely global preoccupation, but also reinforced the divides between developed and developing countries.
这次气候峰会由联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)组织召开，为期一天。会议显示出气候变化怎样变成了一个真正全球化的重要议题，但也强化了发达国家和发展中国家之间的分歧。
Mr. Obama promoted an executive action he announced this year that mandates cutting pollution from the nation’s power plants 30 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. He said the United States would meet its previous pledge to reduce the nation’s overall carbon emissions 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020.
奥巴马对他今年公布的一项行政行动进行了宣传。该行动要求，在2030年之前将美国发电厂的污染，从2005年的水平上减少30%。他表示，美国将兑现之前的承诺，在2020年前，让美国的总体碳排放从2005年的水平上减少17%。
Reciting record-setting temperatures and a litany of natural disasters, from hurricanes and wildfires to droughts and floods, Mr. Obama tried to raise the sense of urgency surrounding climate change at a United Nations meeting dominated by fears of terrorism.
奥巴马罗列了创纪录的温度，以及从飓风和野火，再到干旱和洪水的一连串自然灾害，试图在这场恐怖主义威胁成为主要担忧的联合国会议上，提升气候变化议题的紧迫感。
“We are the first generation to feel the impact of climate change and the last generation that can do something about it,” Mr. Obama said.
“我们是感受到气候变化影响的第一代人，也是能对此采取行动的最后一代人，”奥巴马说。
Much of the attention at this summit meeting has focused on China, the world’s largest carbon emitter. President Xi Jinping chose not to attend the meeting. Instead, he sent Zhang Gaoli, his vice premier, who presented his own figures to make the case that China was doing its part.
在这次峰会上，大量注意力都集中在世界最大的碳排放国中国身上。中国国家主席习近平选择不出席该会议，而是派出了副总理张高丽。张高丽展示了自己的数据，以证明中国正在尽自己的责任。
China’s carbon intensity, Mr. Zhang said, is down 28 percent this year from 2005 levels; renewable energy accounts for 24 percent of China’s installed capacity; and the nation is on track to meet its goal of reducing emissions 40 percent to 45 percent from 2005 levels by 2020.
张高丽说，中国今年的碳排放强度与2005年的水平相比降低了28%，可再生能源占中国装机容量的24%，而且中国很有希望完成到2020年，将碳排放强度从2005年的水平上降低40%至45%的目标。
“As a responsible major developing country, China will make an even greater effort to address climate change and take on international responsibilities that are commensurate with our national conditions,” Mr. Zhang said.
张高丽说，作为一个负责任的发展中大国，“今后中国将以更大力度和更好效果应对气候变化，主动承担与自身国情、发展阶段和实际能力相符的国际义务。”
As a political display, the parade of speeches was part of the largest gathering of world leaders ever devoted to climate change. It followed a march of more than 400,000 people in New York on Sunday, the largest political demonstration on climate change.
这一系列演讲作为一场政治表演，是迄今为止涉及气候变化的最大规模的全球领导人峰会中的一部分。会议召开前，周日有超过40万人在纽约举行了一次游行，这也是关于气候变化的规模最大的一次政治示威活动。
“We need to take action now to limit global temperature rise,” said Mr. Ban, the United Nations secretary general, in opening the session. “We need all hands on deck to ride out this storm.”
“我们现在必须采取行动来遏制全球气温上升，”联合国秘书长潘基文在大会的开幕致辞中说。“我们需要齐心协力地安全渡过这场灾难。”
But neither marches nor speeches yield policy. And now, in world capitals, the hard work of translating rhetoric into government action will get underway — or, in some cases, will not.
不过，游行和演讲都不等同于政策。现在，世界各国政府都会开展艰难的工作，把政治表态转变为政府行动——然而有时并不能做到。
Experts say that in the coming months, the clearest indication of how serious governments are about following through on this week’s lofty pledges will be whether they quickly harness teams of economists, energy experts and data analysts to draft aggressive new energy plans — and then work to build political support for such plans.
未来数月，各国政府对于遵守本周冠冕堂皇的承诺，究竟有多认真？专家称，一个最明确的指标就是，他们是否能迅速召集经济学家、能源专家和数据分析师，来制定一些强有力的新能源计划，然后努力为这些计划凝聚政治支持。
The aim of this week’s talks is to start efforts to broker a deal next year in Paris that will bind the world’s largest carbon polluters — the United States, Brazil, China, the European Union, India, Japan, Russia, and others — to enacting laws to cap their use of the coal that supplies billions of people with cheap electricity, and the oil and gasoline that fuel the planet’s cars and trucks.
本周会谈的目的是，开始为明年在巴黎达成协议做准备。该协议将团结世界上最大的碳污染源——美国、巴西、中国、欧盟、印度、日本、俄罗斯等国家——来颁布法律限制它们对煤炭、石油、汽油的使用。煤炭为数十亿人提供了廉价的电力，燃油则为全世界的轿车和卡车提供动力。
That means enacting politically controversial policies such as taxing carbon pollution, creating market-based “cap and trade” programs, or setting new regulations.
这意味着要实施充满政治争议的政策，比如对碳污染征税、创造基于市场的“总量控制和交易”(cap-and-trade)项目，或者实施新规定。