WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday urged lawmakers to support the nuclear deal reached with Iran, saying that failure to put it into effect would increase the likelihood of war in the Middle East and accelerate a nuclear arms race in the region that would threaten the safety of the United States.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周三敦促国会议员支持与伊朗达成的核协议，称不能使其生效会增加中东爆发战争的可能性，并加速该地区的核军备竞赛，从而威胁到美国的安全。
“That’s the choice that we face,” Mr. Obama said in opening comments at a news conference in the East Room of the White House. “If we don’t choose wisely, I believe future generations will judge us harshly, for letting this moment slip away.”
“这就是我们面临的选择，”奥巴马在白宫东厅的新闻发布会开场时说。“如果我们不作出明智的选择，相信后代会严厉地评判我们，因为我们让这个时机白白溜掉了。”
Just one day after announcing the culmination of his yearslong effort to use diplomacy to restrain Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Mr. Obama said he expected a “robust debate” in Congress and among the American people. But he said he saw no alternative to the deal that would prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.
就在一天前，奥巴马宣布，通过外交手段遏制伊朗核野心的行动，经过一年的努力终于有了结果。奥巴马称，他希望国会和美国民众展开“热烈的讨论”。但他表示，除了达成协议，自己想不到还有什么别的方案可以阻止伊朗发展核武器。
“Without a deal, we risk even more war in the Middle East,” he said, adding that other countries in the region would feel compelled to pursue their own nuclear weapons programs. “This deal is our best means of assuring that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon,” he said. “From the start, that has been my No. 1 priority.”
“不达成协议，我们可能会在中东看到更多战争，”他还指出，该地区的其他国家会被迫发展自己的核武器计划。“这项协议是我们确保伊朗不会拥有核武器的最好办法，”他说。“从一开始，这就是我的首要任务。”
Mr. Obama said he hoped the agreement would pave the way to a more constructive relationship with Iran, but he strongly rejected the idea that the deal deserved to be opposed because it fails to address Iran’s support for terrorism or its destabilizing activities in the Middle East.
奥巴马称希望协议能为美国与伊朗建立更具建设性的关系铺平道路。但有人说协议未提及伊朗支持恐怖主义及其破坏中东地区稳定的活动，因而理应遭到否决，他对此表示强烈反对。
“My hope is that building on this deal, we can continue to have conversations with Iran that incentivizes them to behave differently in the region, to be less aggressive, less hostile, more cooperative,” Mr. Obama said. “But we’re not counting on it.”
“我希望在这项协议的基础上，我们能继续与伊朗开展对话，激励伊朗在该地区有不同的表现，不再那么咄咄逼人、充满敌意，而是更愿意展开合作，”奥巴马说。“但我们不能指望这一点。”
The agreement, he said, “solves one particular problem,” which is the risk of Iran developing a nuclear weapon.
他说，协议“解决了一个具体问题”，即伊朗发展核武器这个风险。
“It’ll be a lot easier for us to check Iran’s nefarious activities, to push back against the other areas where they operate contrary to our interests or our allies’ interests if they don’t have a bomb,” he said.
“如果伊朗没有核弹，我们检查它的不轨活动，在其他一些与我们或我们盟友的利益相悖的领域做出反击，就会容易很多，”他说。
The president directly addressed critics who said the deal threatened Israel, saying that America’s closest ally in the Middle East has “legitimate concerns” about whether Iran emerges with a greater ability to back terrorism and disrupt its neighbors.
有批评人士说协议对以色列构成了威胁，总统对此做出了直接回应，称作为美国在中东最亲密的盟友，以色列对伊朗支持恐怖主义和破坏邻国的能力是否会增强的“担心是合理的”。
“You have a large country, with a significant military, that has proclaimed that Israel shouldn’t exist, that has denied the Holocaust, that has financed Hezbollah,” Mr. Obama said. “There are very good reasons why Israelis are nervous about Iran’s position in the world, generally.”
“有一个大国，军队规模庞大，宣称以色列不应该存在，否认大屠杀，还资助真主党(Hezbollah)，”奥巴马说。“总的来说，以色列对伊朗在世界上的地位感到紧张是有非常充分的理由的。”
But Mr. Obama insisted that “those threats are compounded if Iran gets a nuclear weapon” and he chastised the critics of the deal — including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, and Republicans in Congress — for ignoring the facts of the deal and for failing to offer a viable alternative.
但奥巴马坚称，“如果伊朗拥有了核武器，那些威胁便会加剧”。他还指责对协议持批评态度的人——包括以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)和国会的共和党人——忽略了协议涉及的事实，又未能给出可行的替代方案。
“I’m hearing a lot of talking points being repeated,” Mr. Obama said. “What I haven’t heard is what is your preferred alternative?”
“我听到了很多反复出现的话题，”奥巴马说。“我没听到的是，你主张的替代方案是什么？”
“My hope is that everyone in Congress also evaluates this agreement based on the facts,” he added, “not on politics. Not on posturing. Not on the fact that this is a deal that I bring to Congress, as opposed to a Republican president. Not based on lobbying.”
“我希望国会所有人在评估这项协议时是基于事实，”他接着表示，“而不是政治。不是姿态。不要死抓住把协议提交给国会的人是我，而不是一个共和党总统这一点。不要基于游说。”