President Obama is preparing regulations limiting carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants, senior officials said Wednesday. The move would be the most consequential climate policy step he could take and one likely to provoke legal challenges from Republicans and some industries.
周三，一些高级官员表示，美国总统奥巴马准备拟定规章，限制现有发电厂的二氧化碳排放量。此举是他在气候政策方面能够采取的最重大行动，共和党人和某些行业可能会对此在法律领域提出挑战。
Electric power plants are the largest single source of global warming pollution in the country, responsible for nearly 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. With sweeping climate legislation effectively dead in Congress, the decision on existing power plants — which a 2007 Supreme Court decision gave to the executive branch — has been among the most closely watched of Mr. Obama’s second term.
发电厂是全球变暖污染物最大的一项来源，占温室气体排放总量的近40%。随着覆盖面广泛的气候立法实际上已经被国会否决，关于现有电厂的决定——2007年最高法院的一个决议，授予了行政部门这项权力——已经成为奥巴马第二任期中最受关注的焦点之一。
The administration has already begun steps to restrict climate-altering emissions from any newly built power plants, but imposing carbon standards on the existing utility fleet would be vastly more costly and contentious.
奥巴马政府已经开始采取行动，限制了所有新建电厂的温室气体排放量，但是，针对现有电厂实施碳标准将会带来高得多的成本，而且更具争议性。
The president is preparing to move soon because rules as complex as those applying to power plants can take years to complete. Experts say that if Mr. Obama hopes to have a new set of greenhouse gas standards for utilities in place before he leaves office he needs to begin before the end of this year. 
奥巴马打算尽快采取行动，因为适用于发电厂的规章十分复杂，可能需要多年时间才能完成。专家说，如果奥巴马希望在他卸任之前，一套针对公用事业的温室气体新标准可以就位，他需要在今年年底前就开始行动。
Heather Zichal, the White House coordinator for energy and climate change, said Wednesday that the president would announce climate policy initiatives in coming weeks. Another official said a presidential address outlining the new policy, which will also include new initiatives on renewable power and energy efficiency, could come as early as next week.
白宫能源和气候变化协调员希瑟·济乔尔(Heather Zichal)本周三表示，总统将在未来几周内宣布气候政策方面的新举措。另一名官员说，总统有可能最早在下周发表讲话，介绍新的气候政策，其中也包括可再生能源和能源效率方面的新举措。
Ms. Zichal said none of the initiatives being considered by the administration required legislative action or new financing from Congress.
济乔尔说，行政部门正在考虑的这些举措中，没有任何一项需要采取立法行动或是来自国会的新款项。
In a speech in Berlin on Wednesday, Mr. Obama echoed his assertive talk on climate policy since his re-election, talk that some climate advocates have criticized as going beyond his actions.  He said the United States and the world had a moral imperative to take “bold action” to slow the warming of the planet.
上周三在柏林的一次演讲中，奥巴马重申了他连任以来在气候政策方面的积极立场，气候问题倡导者们曾批评他之前的相关讲话言大于行。奥巴马说，美国和世界肩负着一种道义责任，需要采取“大胆的行动”，减缓地球变暖。
“The grim alternative affects all nations — more severe storms, more famine and floods, new waves of refugees, coastlines that vanish, oceans that rise,” Mr. Obama said. “This is the global threat of our time.”
“不作为的后果会影响到所有国家——更严重的风暴，更多饥荒和洪水，新的难民潮，消失的海岸线，上升的海平面。”奥巴马说，“这是我们这个时代的全球性威胁。”
He added, “We have to get to work.”
他补充说：“我们必须采取行动。”
Republicans criticize Mr. Obama’s climate policy as government overreach that is holding back the economy. Some Democrats, including those hawkish about climate action, also worry that tough new standards on power plants could slow job growth and raise energy costs, particularly in places like the industrial Midwest that depend on cheap power from coal.
共和党人批评奥巴马的气候政策，说它是政府行政越权之举，妨碍了经济增长。一些民主党人，甚至包括那些在气候变化行动方面态度强硬的人士，也担心新的针对电厂的严格标准，可能会减慢就业的增长，提高能源成本。这种影响在有些地区会特别严重，比如依赖廉价煤电的中西部工业区。
But administration officials signaled that Mr. Obama had decided the risks from climate change outweighed the potential economic and political costs from taking steps to address it.
但是，政府官员暗示，奥巴马已经做出决定，认为气候变化的风险大于采取措施来解决这个问题所导致的潜在经济和政治成本。
“He is serious about making it a second-term priority,” Ms. Zichal said at a forum Wednesday in Washington sponsored by The New Republic magazine. “He knows this is a legacy issue.”
“他对这件事很认真，将其作为他第二任期的优先事项，”周三在华盛顿，济乔尔在《新共和国》杂志主办的一个论坛上说，“他知道这是一个涉及自己政治遗产的问题。”
Ms. Zichal suggested that a central part of the administration’s approach to dealing with climate change would be to use the authority given to the Environmental Protection Agency to address climate-altering pollutants from power plants under the Clean Air Act.
济乔尔暗示，行政部门应对气候变化的一个关键方法，就拿出《洁净空气法案》(Clean Air Act)，利用环境保护局被赋予的权力，解决导致气候改变的电厂污染物问题。
“The E.P.A. has been working very hard on rules that focus specifically on greenhouse gases from the coal sector,” she said. “They’re doing a lot of important work in that space.”
“环境保护局一直在努力拟定一些法规，它们具体侧重在煤炭行业温室气体排放上。”她说，“在这个领域，他们做了很多重要工作。”
She did not specifically mention standards for existing power plants, but other senior officials have said in recent days that Mr. Obama has decided to start work on such regulations.
她没有具体提到针对现有发电厂的标准，但近日有其他高级官员表示，奥巴马已决定着手拟定相关规章。
A 2007 Supreme Court decision gave the E.P.A. authority to regulate greenhouse gases, and it has already done so for vehicles. Environmental advocates said that addressing power plant pollution must be the centerpiece of any serious climate policy.
最高法院2007年宣布的一项决议，授予了环境保护局监管温室气体的权力；该局现在已经在监管汽车排放。环保主义者说，解决电厂污染问题，必须是任何认真的气候变化政策的核心。
“To paraphrase Joe Biden, this is a big deal,” said Daniel F. Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an advocacy organization. “Nothing he can do will cut greenhouse gases more.”
“引用乔·拜登(Joe Biden)的一句话，这是大事儿，”倡导团体“安全气候运动”(Safe Climate Campaign)负责人丹尼尔·F·贝克尔(Daniel F. Becker)表示，“这是他对减少温室气体排放所能做出的最大努力。”
Last year, the E.P.A. proposed greenhouse gas regulations for new power plants that would essentially ban the construction of any additional coal-fired plants. The administration was required to complete that regulation by mid-April, but it missed the deadline in a sign of the pitfalls of such complex rule making. The E.P.A. has not said when it expects to complete the rules.
去年，环境保护局草拟了针对新电厂的温室气体规章，它基本上禁止了对新燃煤电厂的修建。行政部门被要求在4月中旬前完成该规章，但是它错过了这个截止日期，这显示了拟定如此复杂的规则可能遇到各种波折。环境保护局至今没有表示，预计何时完成该规章。
The administration has been quietly stitching together a suite of global warming policy measures for the president to unveil this summer to make good on promises in his election night acceptance speech, his second Inaugural address and his State of the Union address.
行政部门一直在默默拼接一套防止全球变暖的政策措施，以便总统可以今年夏天推出它们，履行他在大选之夜的获选演讲中，他的第二次就职演说中，以及他在国情咨文中做出的承诺。
Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, and his deputy, Rob Nabors, have regularly met with cabinet secretaries and their deputies to adapt to a changing climate and to propose new measures that do not require Congressional action.
白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克唐纳(Denis McDonough)和他的副手罗勃·纳伯斯(Rob Nabors)定期会见内阁部长和他们的副手，以适应不断变化的政治气候，并提出一些不需要国会采取行动的新措施。
Mr. Obama’s coming speech is also expected to highlight measures that the Department of Energy can take to make appliances and industrial equipment more efficient and to reduce the energy wasted in public and private buildings.
在将要发表的讲话中，奥巴马可能会强调能源部可以采取哪些措施，提高家电和工业设备的能效，并减少公共和私人建筑中的能源浪费状况。