WASHINGTON — President Obama on Monday will take executive actions to ease the burden of college loan debt for potentially millions of Americans, in a White House event coinciding with Senate Democrats’ plans for legislation to address a concern of many voters in this midterm election year.
华盛顿——周一，奥巴马总统将采取行政手段来减轻大学贷款给人们带来的负担，受影响的可能有数百万美国人。白宫提出这一举措之时，参议院民主党人也正在计划推动相应的立法，回应许多选民在这个中期选举年中所关注的一项问题。
Before an East Room audience, Mr. Obama is scheduled to announce “new steps to further lift the burden of crushing student loan debt,” said a White House official, who declined to be identified describing the actions in advance of the president’s event. Despite past actions by the administration, borrowers’ debt load is growing and retarding the ability to buy homes, start businesses or otherwise spend to spur the economy, economists say.
一名白宫官员表示，奥巴马将在白宫东厅对听众宣布“进一步减轻高额学生贷款压力的新举措”。这名官员因为在总统的活动之前谈论相关行动而要求匿名。经济学家表示，虽然政府此前也采取过一些措施，但是借款人的债务压力仍在增加，而且还抑制了人们购房、创业，或以其他方式花钱刺激经济的能力。
Mr. Obama’s main action will be to expand on a 2010 law that capped borrowers’ repayments at 10 percent of their monthly income. The intent is to extend such relief to an estimated five million people with older loans who are currently ineligible — those who got loans before October 2007 or stopped borrowing by October 2011. But the relief would not be available until December 2015, officials said, given the time needed for the Education Department to propose and put new regulations into effect.
奥巴马的主要行动将是拓展一项2010年颁布的法律。该法将借款人的还款金额限制在他们月收入的10%，政府计划拓宽这种条款的适用范围，使之适用于贷款时间较早，所以目前无资格享受这项待遇的约500万人——于2007年10月之前贷款或者在2011年10月后停止贷款的人。但是这项政策直到2015年12月才能生效，因为教育部需要时间来提出并执行新的规定。
Also, Mr. Obama will announce that the department will renegotiate contracts with companies that service federal loans to give them additional financial incentives to help borrowers avoid delinquency or default. The Education and Treasury Departments are to work with the nation’s largest tax-preparation firms, H&R Block and Intuit Inc., to ensure that borrowers are aware of repayment options and tax credits for college tuition.
奥巴马还宣布，教育部还将与提供联邦贷款的公司重新谈判相关合约，为这些公司提供额外的财政激励，从而避免借款人无法还款或违约。教育部和财政部将与美国最大的报税公司H&R Block和Intuit Inc.展开合作，以确保借款人能了解到偿还大学教育贷款的还贷选择和税务减免政策。
The president said in January, in his State of the Union address, that he would use his “pen and phone” to take executive actions and enlist private institutions on matters when disputes with congressional Republicans block legislation.
今年1月，奥巴马总统在他的国情咨文演说中谈到，如果与国会共和党的争议对立法造成了阻碍，他就将利用他的“笔和电话”来采取行政措施，并从私营部门寻求支持。
But legislation generally is more far-reaching, so Mr. Obama will also urge passage of a measure that the Democratic-led Senate plans to take up this week. He plans to discuss the proposal at his Monday event and in a Tuesday question-and-answer session about student loan debt on the Tumblr social-networking website.
但立法通常会产生更为深远的影响，因此奥巴马还将敦促通过一项法案。民主党控制的参议院计划本周开始审议这项法案。他计划在周一的活动上讨论这项提案，还将于周二在社交网站Tumblr上就学生贷款的债务负担进行问答。
The Senate bill, sponsored by Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, would allow an estimated 25 million Americans to refinance student loans, federal and private, at lower interest rates. Reduced interest payments would cost the government about $58 billion over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office, but the legislation would raise $72 billion by imposing a new tax on some high-income individuals.
马萨诸塞州民主党参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)发起的这项法案将使大约2500万名美国人，能以更低的利率获得新贷款，偿还背负的联邦及私人学生贷款。国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)计算，在十年的时间里，削减利息负担的举措，需要花费政府大约580亿美元（约合3600亿元人民币），但该法案将通过对某些高收入人群征收新税筹集720亿美元的资金。
Because of the tax and the bill’s overall cost, it is unclear whether Democrats can muster enough Republican support to get the 60 votes needed. Even if they succeed, the Republican-controlled House is likely to ignore the measure.
考虑到税收及该法案的总成本，目前尚不清楚民主党人能否赢得足够多的共和党人的支持，获得通过法案所需的60票。即便他们成功了，由共和党控制的众议院可能也会无视该法案。
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Senate Democratic leader who worked with the White House on the issue, said, “Even though our bill goes further, the president’s action means something will be done even if Republicans block it.” 
来自纽约州的参议院民主党领袖查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)与白宫共同推动了这一议题。他表示，“尽管我们的法案更为深入，但总统的举措意味着，即便共和党人进行阻挠，我们也能做到一些事情。”
In his weekly address, Mr. Obama defined the choice before Congress in political terms: “Protect young people from crushing debt, or protect tax breaks for millionaires.”
奥巴马在每周讲话中，明确了国会在政治上面临的选择：“要么避免学生背负沉重的债务，要么保护富人的税收优惠。”