WEST POINT, N.Y. — President Barack Obama tried once more to articulate his vision of the American role in the world Wednesday, telling graduating cadets here that the nation they were being called to serve would seek to avoid military misadventures abroad, even as it confronts a new set of terrorist threats from the Middle East to Africa.
纽约州西点军校——周三，奥巴马总统尝试再次表明他对美国在世界扮演的角色的憧憬，告诉这里的毕业学员，他们效力的国家将力求避免在国外遭遇军事失利，即便该国在从中东到非洲的广大区域面对着新的恐怖主义威胁。
Speaking at the commencement of the U.S. Military Academy, Obama disputed critics who say his cautious response to crises like Syria's civil war and Russian aggression toward Ukraine had eroded U.S. leadership in the world. Those critics, he said, were “either misreading history or engaged in partisan politics.”
在美国军事学院(U.S. Military Academy)的毕业典礼上发表演讲时，奥巴马反驳了一些批评人士的言论，后者称奥巴马对叙利亚内战及俄罗斯侵略乌克兰等危机的谨慎回应削弱了美国在世界的领导地位。奥巴马称，这些批评者“要么误读了历史，要么就是涉入了党派政治。”
But for a president who has promised to take the United States off a permanent war footing, Obama painted an unsettling portrait of the world, 13 years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The nation, he said, had, in effect, traded al-Qaida in Afghanistan for a more diffuse threat from extremists in Syria, Nigeria, Somalia, Yemen, Mali, and other countries.
然而，身为一位曾承诺使美国脱离永久战争状态的总统，奥巴马却在2001年9·11袭击事件13年后的今天描绘了一幅令人不安的世界图像。他表示，事实上，美国虽然打击了阿富汗的基地组织，但却转而面对着来自叙利亚、尼日利亚、索马里、也门、马里等国极端分子的更广泛威胁。
A day after announcing that the last U.S. soldier will leave Afghanistan at the end of 2016, Obama told a new class of Army officers that some of them would be sent on murkier missions, helping endangered nations deal with their own terrorist groups.
此前一天，奥巴马宣布美国最后一批士兵将于2016年底撤离阿富汗。周三，奥巴马告诉新一批陆军军官，他们中的一些人将被派去执行更为凶险的任务，帮助面临威胁的国家对付其境内的恐怖主义组织。
In the only new policy announcement of the speech, he called on Congress to finance what he called a Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund, with up to $5 billion to provide training in these operations to vulnerable countries like Iraq, Lebanon and Turkey, all neighbors of Syria.
奥巴马在演讲中只宣布了一项新政策，呼吁国会(Congress)为他所称的反恐合作基金(Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund)提供多达50亿美元（约合312亿元人民币）的资金，用于向伊拉克、黎巴嫩、土耳其等易受攻击的国家提供反恐培训，前述三国都是叙利亚的邻国。
“We have to develop a strategy that matches this diffuse threat; one that expands our reach without sending forces that stretch our military too thin, or stirs up local resentments,” Obama declared. “We need partners to fight terrorists alongside us.”
“我们需要制定策略，应对这种扩散的威胁，这种策略可以使我们在不派遣部队的情况下扩大影响力，派遣部队的举措会使我们的战线拉得太长，还可能引发当地的怨恨情绪，”奥巴马宣称。“我们需要合作伙伴与我们共同打击恐怖分子。”
The president has spoken before about the threat from terrorism, most notably in a speech last May at the National Defense University. But on those occasions he had taken pains to note that the threat was on a lesser scale than the Sept. 11 attacks and could be dealt with “smartly and proportionately.”
奥巴马之前也曾就恐怖主义威胁发言，最值得注意的是去年5月在美国国防大学(National Defense University)发表的演讲。但在那些场合中，他曾经煞费苦心地说明，与9·11事件相比，威胁规模已经缩小，美国能够予以“巧妙而适当的”应对。
On Wednesday, his language was more ominous: “For the foreseeable future,” he said, “the most direct threat to America at home and abroad remains terrorism.”
周三，奥巴马的措辞更令人感到不安：“在可预见的未来，”他说。“美国在国内外面临的最直接威胁仍是恐怖主义。”
Obama singled out Syria, which he said was becoming a haven for extremists,a situation that his critics have attributed in part to his own unwillingness to take more aggressive action. While pledging to strengthen U.S. support for the opposition — something he has done several times before — the president did not discuss expanding the CIA's covert training program for Syrian rebels in Jordan, perhaps bringing in the military, an option that is being discussed inside the administration.
奥巴马单独提到了叙利亚，称叙利亚正在成为极端分子的天堂。批评他的人士将这一形势部分归咎于他不愿采取更强硬行动的态度。奥巴马曾数次承诺加强美国对叙利亚反对派的支持，这次也重申了这一承诺，但却没有提及，是否要扩大中央情报局(CIA)在约旦为叙利亚反动派提供秘密训练的项目，是否会让军方介入这一项目。奥巴马政府内部正在讨论这一选择。
A senior administration official said after the speech that the White House was consulting with Congress about ways to expand the military's role in counterterrorism operations. But he declined to say whether the administration had decided on a bigger Pentagon role in Syria and noted there were other ways to help the opposition.
一名高级政府官员在奥巴马演讲结束之后表示，白宫正在与国会商讨如何扩大军方在反恐行动中的作用。但他拒绝说明，奥巴马政府是否已决定让五角大楼在叙利亚发挥更大作用，并且指出，还有其他一些帮助反对派的办法。
Little in Obama's tone suggested he had dropped his reluctance to get involved militarily in Syria, a position that has not changed despite three years of war and a death toll above 160,000.
奥巴马的言辞并未表明，他已经改变了不愿对叙利亚进行军事干预的态度。尽管叙利亚战争已持续三年，伤亡人数已经超过16万人，他这种态度仍未改变。
“I made a decision that we should not put American troops into the middle of this increasingly sectarian war, and I believe that is the right decision,” Obama said. “But that does not mean we shouldn't help the Syrian people stand up against a dictator who bombs and starves his own people.”
“我已经决定，不应该让美国军队介入这场宗派性质日益明显的战争，而且我相信这个决定是正确的，”奥巴马说。“但是这并不意味着我们不该对叙利亚人民伸出援手，不该帮助他们起而反抗用炸弹和饥馑对付本国人民的独裁者。”
Weeks in the drafting, the president's speech was meant to be a wide-ranging rebuttal to critics who say he should have done more to curb the bloodshed in Syria or stop Russia's takeover of Crimea. But it also rejected arguments that the United States should retreat from its post-World War II centrality in global affairs.
奥巴马的演讲用了几周的时间来起草，本意是要对批评者进行全面反驳。这些批评者称，奥巴马应该采取更多行动来遏制叙利亚的流血冲突、阻止俄罗斯接管克里米亚。不过，演讲也驳斥了美国应该放弃二战结束以来的国际事务中心角色的观点。
Obama instead called for a middle course between isolationism and overreach, citing the international coalition the United States had mobilized to counter Russia's aggression in Ukraine as an example of how to use American muscle “without firing a shot.”
奥巴马转而倡议采取一条介于孤立主义和过分干预之间的中间道路，指出美国动员了一个国际联盟来反对俄罗斯对乌克兰的侵略，就是“不费一枪一弹”发挥美国影响力的实例。
“America must always lead on the world stage,” the president said. “But U.S. military action cannot be the only — or even primary — component of our leadership in every instance. Just because we have the best hammer does not mean that every problem is a nail.”
“美国必须始终保持世界舞台上的领导地位，”奥巴马说。“但我们不能让美国的军事行动成为我们在所有事情中发挥领导作用的唯一因素，甚至不能让它成为最重要的因素。我们拥有最好的锤子，并不意味着我们该把每个问题都当成钉子。”
West Point, with its 1,064 graduating cadets in full dress uniform, offered a grand backdrop for Obama's foreign-policy blueprint. But he got a subdued reception under leaden skies and chilly wind, which left family members of the cadets, many in shirt sleeves and sundresses, shivering in the stands of the football stadium.
西点军校为奥巴马的外交政策蓝图提供了一个宏伟的背景，1064名毕业学员都穿着整齐的制服。但是，灰色的天空和寒风使得场面有些冷淡，许多学员的亲属都穿着衬衫或露肩裙，在橄榄球场的看台上瑟瑟发抖。
One line that did bring a burst of applause, mainly from parents, came when Obama told the graduates they might be the first class since 2001 not sent to serve in Iraq or Afghanistan. It was a very different theme than in 2009, when he came here to announce the United States would send 30,000 additional troops to Afghanistan.
的确有一句话引来了一阵热烈的掌声，鼓掌的主要是学员的父母。当时奥巴马告诉这些毕业生，他们将有可能成为自2001年来第一届不用去伊拉克或阿富汗服役的军官。这个主题与2009年的演讲大相径庭，那一年，奥巴马来到这里，宣布美国将向阿富汗增兵3万。
Obama has been deeply frustrated by the criticism of his foreign policy, which during his first term was generally perceived as his strong suit. He has lashed out at critics, whom he accuses of reflexively calling for military action as the remedy for every crisis.
由于外交政策受到批评，奥巴马深感沮丧。在他的第一任期，人们普遍认为外交政策是他的优势。他曾对批评者进行猛烈抨击，说这些人形成了条件反射，一有危机就呼吁通过军事行动来解决问题。
On a trip to Asia last month, Obama described his foreign-policy credo with a baseball analogy: “You hit singles, you hit doubles; every once in a while we may be able to hit a home run.” But, he added, the overriding objective is to avoid an error on the scale of the Iraq war.
上个月访问亚洲期间，奥巴马曾把自己的外交政策准则比作棒球赛：“一垒安打，二垒安打；我们时不时总会打出一个本垒打。”但是他又说，最重要的目标是要避免像伊拉克战争那么严重的错误。
In private conversations, the president has used a saltier variation of the phrase, “don't do stupid stuff” — brushing aside as reckless those who say the United States should consider enforcing a no-fly zone in Syria or supplying arms to Ukrainian troops.
在私下的交谈中，总统用更生动的方式表达了这句话的意思，“不要做傻事”——并且斥责那些认为美国应该考虑在叙利亚设立禁飞区或为乌克兰军队提供武器的人，说他们有勇无谋。
At West Point, a 212-year-old institution on a bluff overlooking the Hudson River, Obama struck a loftier tone, quoting Dwight D. Eisenhower on the folly of war and John F. Kennedy on the need for peace based on “a gradual evolution in human institutions.”
拥有212年历史的西点军校坐落在一座俯瞰哈德逊河的山崖上。奥巴马在这里的发言调门更高，引用了德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)和约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)的相关言论，前者说的是战争的愚蠢，后者则称，必须通过“人类制度的逐渐进化”实现和平。