IN the months since President Obama first seem poised — as he now seems poised again — to issue a sweeping executive amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants, we’ve learned two important things about how this administration approaches its constitutional obligations.
奥巴马总统眼下似乎正准备颁布行政令，赦免数百万非法移民。自从他在许多个月以前首次摆出这种姿态以来，我们已经弄清了与这届政府如何履行宪法义务有关的两个重要问题。
First, we now have a clear sense of the legal arguments that will be used to justify the kind of move Obama himself previously described as a betrayal of our political order. They are, as expected, lawyerly in the worst sense, persuasive only if abstracted from any sense of precedent or proportion or political normality.
首先，我们现在对曾被奥巴马斥为“背弃了政治秩序”，却又即将被他用来为上述举措辩护的某些法律论据有了清晰的认知。这些观点像是律师的辩词，而且是最糟糕的那种，只有在罔顾前例、分寸感和政治规范的情况下才具有说服力。
Second, we now have a clearer sense of just how anti-democratically this president may be willing to proceed.
其次，我们现在清楚地认识到，总统或将愿意迈出的这一步是多么的反民主。
The legal issues first. The White House’s case is straightforward: It has “prosecutorial discretion” in which illegal immigrants it deports, it has precedent-grounded power to protect particular groups from deportation, and it has statutory authority to grant work permits to those protected. Therefore, there can be no legal bar to applying discretion, granting protections and issuing work permits to roughly half the illegal-immigrant population.
先来说说法律问题。白宫的理由简单明了：它对驱逐哪些非法移民有“检控裁量权”；按照先例，它有权保护特定群体不受驱逐；它还拥有向受保护者发放工作许可的法定权限。因此，不存在针对行使自由裁量权、给予保护以及向近半非法移民发放工作许可的法律障碍。
This argument’s logic, at once consistent and deliberately obtuse, raises one obvious question: Why stop at half? (Activists are already asking.) After all, under this theory of what counts as faithfully executing the law, all that matters is that somebody, somewhere, is being deported; anyone and everyone else can be allowed to work and stay. So the president could “temporarily” legalize 99.9 percent of illegal immigrants and direct the Border Patrol to hand out work visas to every subsequent border crosser, so long as a few thousand aliens were deported for felonies every year.
这种论证的逻辑既带有自洽性，又带有故意为之的含糊性，由此引发了一个非常明显的问题：为什么止步于赦免半数非法移民？（活动人士已经在问了。）毕竟，按照这种探讨何为忠实执法的理论，某个地方的某个人正遭到驱逐才最重要的；任何一个人以及其他所有人都能得到出门工作以及留在美国的许可。所以，总统可以“暂时”将99.9%的非法移民的身份合法化，并命令边境保护局（Border Patrol）向随后到来的每个越境者发放工作签证——只要每年驱逐出去几千名犯了重罪的外国人就万事大吉了。
The reality is there is no agreed-upon limit to the scope of prosecutorial discretion in immigration law because no president has attempted anything remotely like what Obama is contemplating. In past cases, presidents used the powers he’s invoking to grant work permits to modest, clearly defined populations facing some obvious impediment (war, persecution, natural disaster) to returning home. None of those moves even approached this plan’s scale, none attempted to transform a major public policy debate, and none were deployed as blackmail against a Congress unwilling to work the president’s will.
现实情况是，移民法并未就检控裁量权的适用范围设定限度，因为奥巴马打算迈出的这一步实在太离谱，从没有哪位总统试图做过类似的事情。在以往的案例中，曾有其他总统运用他提到的这些权限，向规模不大且得到清晰界定的群体——因为面临一些明显的障碍（战争、迫害和自然灾害）而无法回国的人——发放过工作许可。但他们的这些举措，没有哪一项在适用范围上能望当前计划之项背，没有哪一项试图改变公共政策大讨论的面貌，没有哪一项被用于勒索不愿按总统意图行事的国会。
And none of them had major applications outside immigration law. No defender of Obama’s proposed move has successfully explained why it wouldn’t be a model for a future president interested in unilateral rewrites of other areas of public policy (the tax code, for instance) where sweeping applications of “discretion” could achieve partisan victories by fiat. No liberal has persuasively explained how, after spending the last Republican administration complaining about presidential “signing statements,” it makes sense for the left to begin applying Cheneyite theories of executive power on domestic policy debates.
此外，也没有哪一项的影响超出过移民法的范畴。对奥巴马计划采取的这一举措表示支持的人，没有谁能解释得清，为什么未来当选的总统不会循着这一先例，单边改写其他领域的公共政策（比如税法）——只要在这些领域一股脑儿地使用“自由裁量权”，就可以通过行政命令取得党派斗争上的胜利。自由主义者在上一个共和党政府掌权期间一直对总统的“大笔一挥”抱怨连连，他们无法令人信服地阐明，左派开始应用切尼式(Cheneyite)理论、以行政权力干预公共政策讨论的做法如何说得通。
Especially debates in which the executive branch is effectively acting in direct defiance of the electoral process. This is where the administration has entered extraordinarily brazen territory, since part of its original case for taking these steps was that they supposedly serve the public will, which only yahoos and congressional Republicans oppose.
尤其需要注意的是，在某些讨论中，白宫实际上是在直截了当地违背选举程序。至此，当前的政府已经到达了极为肆无忌惮的境地，因为它采取这些行动的初衷，据称是要遵从公众的意愿，只有粗野的人和国会里的共和党议员才会反对。
This argument was specious before; now it looks ridiculous. The election just past was not, of course, a formal referendum on the president’s proposed amnesty, but it was conducted with the promise of unilateral action in the background, and with immigration as one of the more hotly debated issues. The result was a devastating defeat for Obama and his party, and most polling on unilateral action is pretty terrible for the president.
这种论证以前就很可疑，现在则显得极为荒唐。当然了，刚刚过去的选举并不是让选民就总统提出的大赦进行正式的公投，但这次选举是在奥巴马有可能采取单边行动的背景下举行的，而且移民问题是其间受到较为热烈讨论的议题之一。结果，奥巴马和他所在的政党一败涂地；而且大多数关于单边行动的民意调查所得出的结果对总统而言都非常糟糕。
So there is no public will at work here. There is only the will to power of this White House.
因此，并没有公众意愿在推动这件事，而是只有本届白宫的权力欲。
Which is why the thinking liberal’s move, if this action goes forward, will be to invoke structural forces, flaws inherent in our constitutional order, to justify Obama’s unilateralism. This won’t be a completely fallacious argument: Presidential systems like ours have a long record, especially in Latin America, of producing standoffs between executive and legislative branches, which tends to make executive power grabs more likely. In the United States this tendency has been less dangerous — our imperial presidency has grown on us gradually; the worst overreaches have often been rolled back. But we do seem to be in an era whose various forces — our open-ended post-9/11 wars, the ideological uniformity of the parties — are making a kind of creeping caudillismo more likely.
这就是为什么，针对自由派此番行动的考虑是，倘若得以执行，它会挑动结构性的力量，即我们宪政秩序中的固有缺陷，来为奥巴马的单边行动正名。这种提法并非全盘谬论：长期以来，我们采取的这种总统制，一直在制造行政与立法分支之间的对峙，从而往往令行政分支更有可能去攫取权力。此种情况在拉丁美洲尤其常见。在美国，这种倾向没那么危险——帝王式的总统作风逐渐获得我们的接受，而最过分的逾越之举往往得到了纠正。然而，我们目前所处的时代，的确看起来有多方面力量在让这类悄然滋生的强人政治变得更为可能。这些力量包括：我们在9·11之后涉足的无休止的战争，以及不同党派之间的意识形态趋于一致。