WASHINGTON — President Obama will preside this week over an unusual meeting of the United Nations Security Council poised to adopt a binding resolution that would compel all countries to put in place domestic laws to prosecute those who travel abroad to join terrorist organizations and those who help them, including by raising funds.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统将在本周主持一场不同寻常的联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)会议，会上准备通过一项有约束力的决议，要求所有国家颁布国内法律，起诉那些出国加入恐怖组织的人员，以及通过筹集资金等方式为其提供帮助的人员。
The resolution, proposed by the United States, would for the first time establish international standards for nations to prevent and suppress the recruiting of their citizens by terrorist organizations, and to bar the entry and transit across their territory of suspected foreign terrorists.
由美国提出的这项决议将首次为各国制定国际标准，以防止和遏制恐怖组织招募各国公民，并禁止外国恐怖嫌疑人进入和途经各国领土。
Already, several European countries and other nations are putting new laws and administrative rules in place, although the extent to which each state enforces these provisions, experts say, will no doubt be balanced with their own policies and priorities.
几个欧洲国家和其他一些国家已经施行了新的法律和行政规定，但专家称，各国对这些条款的执行程度，无疑需要与各自的政策和侧重点相协调。
Counterterrorism officials say the weight of a Security Council resolution could strengthen and unify the legal and political framework to help stem the flow of fighters to conflicts like those in Syria and Iraq, and help address the longer-term threat of battle-hardened Westerners, including Americans, returning to carry out attacks in their home countries.
反恐官员表示，安理会决议的影响力将加强和统一法律及政治框架，有助于阻止武装人员加入叙利亚和伊拉克等地的冲突，并有助于应对另一项长期的挑战，即遏制上过战场的西方人，包括美国人，回到各自的祖国发动袭击。
“It’s an agreement that sends a strong signal to everyone working in this field that we take this issue very, very seriously,” Dick Schoof, the Dutch national coordinator for security and counterterrorism, said in a telephone interview on Sunday. He said 140 Dutch citizens had gone to fight in Syria.
“该协议向这个领域的所有人发出了一个强有力的信号，我们非常非常重视这个问题，”荷兰国家安全和反恐协调员迪克·朔夫(Dick Schoof)在周日接受电话采访时说。他表示，已有140名荷兰公民去叙利亚参战了。
American intelligence officials say 15,000 foreign fighters are now in Iraq and Syria; they are from 80 countries and include more than 2,000 Europeans and 100 Americans.
美国情报官员称，目前伊拉克和叙利亚境内有来自80个国家的1.5万名外国武装分子，其中包括2000多名欧洲人和100名美国人。
The resolution is due to be taken up Wednesday afternoon at a meeting led by Mr. Obama and attended by more than a dozen heads of state. Diplomats said there is wide support for the measure, and it is expected to pass.
决议将在周三下午的一次会议上接受讨论。会议将由奥巴马主持，十多位国家元首出席。外交官表示，这一举措得到了广泛支持，预计决议会得到通过。
It would require states to criminalize attempts to travel abroad to join a terrorist organization and to prevent suspected foreign terrorists from entering or traveling through their territory. It would also compel states to require airlines operating in their territory to share passenger lists and for states to share information about such suspects.
决议将要求各国把试图出国参加恐怖组织的做法，列为犯罪行为，并防止外国恐怖嫌疑人进入或途经各自的领土。决议还将迫使各国，要求在其境内运营的航空公司共享乘客名单，并要求各国共享有关这类嫌疑人的信息。
The resolution is under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which means that it is legally binding, though nothing in this measure calls for military action. If passed, the resolution would be difficult to enforce.
该决议是根据联合国宪章第七章提出的。这意味着，决议具有法律约束力，不过这一举措并未要求采取军事行动。如果获得通过，决议可能难以执行。
The text calls on a United Nations panel responsible for monitoring compliance with sanctions against Al Qaeda to investigate where member states fall short in responding to foreign fighters. It also leaves open the possibility of imposing sanctions on those who finance or facilitate the travel of foreign fighters under the Qaeda sanctions list.
决议文本要求联合国的一个专门小组，调查成员国是否在应对外国武装分子方面满足了要求，该小组的职责是监督对基地组织(Al Qaeda)采取的制裁措施的遵守情况。该决议也留下了这样一种可能性，即如果有人向基地组织制裁名单中的外国武装分子提供资金支持和旅行便利，那么该人就会受到制裁。
Simply traveling to Syria or Iraq to join an extremist group is not a crime in many countries, though committing specific crimes — like murder — is covered by domestic law, and crimes like torture are prohibited by international law, requiring countries to try their own citizens suspected of atrocities.
在许多国家，只是前往叙利亚或伊拉克加入极端主义组织都不算犯罪，不过一些特定罪行——比如谋杀——也被国内法所禁止；此外，国际法则禁止对他人进行折磨，并要求相关国家对涉嫌实施暴行的本国公民进行审判。
“The resolution relies a lot on states to implement the provisions in the spirit of the text, as there are few guidelines and no enforcement measures,” said Richard Barrett, former coordinator of the United Nations Al Qaeda and Taliban monitoring team. “Not only will implementation be difficult, but so too will monitoring implementation.”
“这项决议很大程度上有赖于各国本着文本的精神来执行这些规定，因为这里没有太多指导原则，也没有什么强制措施，”联合国基地组织和塔利班(Taliban)监察组的前协调员理查德·巴瑞特(Richard Barrett)说。“不仅实施起来很困难，监督执行情况也会很困难。”
The resolution puts pressure on some of the United States’ most vital allies in the region. Turkey is being asked to monitor its nearly 800 miles of borders with Syria and Iraq, which have been freely used by militants joining a variety of rebel groups fighting the governments of both countries, including the Islamic State, alternately known as ISIL and ISIS.
这个决议给美国在该地区最重要的一些盟友带来了压力。根据要求，土耳其要对它与叙利亚及伊拉克将近800英里（约合1300公里）的边境进行监察。一直有武装人员可以自由地通过这条边境线，加入与叙利亚和伊拉克政府对抗的各种反叛组织，其中就包括伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State of Iraq and Syria)，即所谓的ISIL或ISIS。
Other allies, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar, are under the spotlight for allowing clerics and others to support and raise money for extremist groups. At the same time, some countries in the region have raised concerns about an international effort solely focused on the Islamic State and the prospect of detracting attention from a rival in the region: the government of Bashar al-Assad of Syria, which they say has fueled the rise of terrorist groups. One Western ally told American diplomats last week that it would be exceedingly difficult for them to prosecute their citizens for attending fund-raisers.
沙特阿拉伯和卡塔尔等其他盟友则备受关注，因为这些国家允许宗教人士和其他人支持极端组织，并为它们筹措资金。因为国际社会把注意力完全放在ISIS上，而忽视了该地区的一个对手——以巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)为首的叙利亚政府，所以地区内一些国家也提出了担忧。他们说，阿萨德政府对恐怖组织的发展起了推动作用。上周，一个西方盟友告诉美国外交官，对他们而言，向参加筹款活动的公民实施制裁极为困难。
But with the resolution, “there will be a legal basis to act,” said a senior European official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of his country’s protocols. “It will also force countries to update their legal underpinnings to prosecute violators.”
但是一名欧洲高官说，有了这项决议，“行动就有了法律依据”。因为国家规定，这位官员要求匿名。“它还将迫使各国更新自己的法律依据，以惩罚违规者。”
The draft resolution sidesteps the contentious issue of what is a terrorist organization. It leaves to each state to decide for itself. The United States considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization; many other countries do not. The Security Council has already designated Al Qaeda as a banned terrorist group; a landmark 2001 Council resolution prohibits fund-raising for it and assisting it and its affiliates. This new resolution cites the example of the Islamic State, but is not limited to it.
决议草案回避了何为恐怖组织这个颇有争议的话题，而把决定权交给了各个国家。美国认为哈马斯(Hamas)是恐怖组织，其他许多国家则不这么认为。安理会已经认定基地组织是个应该禁止的恐怖组织，安理会2001年的一项重要决议禁止为基地组织筹集资金，以及为它和它的附属组织提供援助。这项新决议提到了ISIS的例子，但其作用范围并不限于这个组织。