WASHINGTON — Two days before joining other presidents in Texas to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, President Obama tackled enduring inequality himself on Tuesday, in this case economic disparity based on gender.
华盛顿——距离和几位前总统一同前往德克萨斯出席《民权法案》(Civil Rights Act)50周年纪念活动还有两天，奥巴马总统在本周二开始了自己对长期不平等现象的抗争，他的目标是性别导致的经济差异。
His action? Signing a memo seeking statistics on contractor salaries and an executive order barring federal contractors from retaliating against employees who discuss their pay.
他采取了什么行动？签署一份统计承包商薪酬数据的备忘录，签署一份行政命令，禁止联邦承包商对讨论工资待遇的雇员施以报复。
If the photo-friendly ceremony in the East Room was not exactly the stuff of Mount Rushmore, it did reflect a broader question about the state of the presidency a half-century after Lyndon B. Johnson enacted monumental change in American society: Is it even possible for a president to do big things anymore?
虽说光鲜靓丽的白宫东厅庆祝仪式，也许跟拉什莫尔山先辈的事迹无法比拟，但它的确反映了关乎当下美国总统制之境况的一个更广泛问题，半个世纪前，林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)总统在美国社会掀起滔天巨变：在今天，一个美国总统还有可能做出如此壮举吗？
For better or worse, Johnson represented the high-water mark for American presidents pushing through sweeping legislation — not just the Civil Rights Act, but the Voting Rights Act, Medicare and major measures on immigration, education, gun control and clean air. No president since has approached that level of legislative success, although there are people who argue that is a good thing because government should not be so intrusive.
是好是坏且不论，在推动影响深远的立法方面，约翰逊实为美国总统之翘楚，在他推动下获得通过的不仅有《民权法案》、还有《选举权法案》(Voting Rights Act)、联邦医疗保险法案(Medicare)和与移民、教育、控枪及清洁空气有关的重要法案。自那之后，还没有哪位总统取得和他比肩的立法成就，不过有人辩称，这是一件好事，原因是政府不应该大包大揽。
But Mr. Obama and many Democrats are not among them. At this stage of his presidency, Mr. Obama has become a symbol of liberal frustration over his inability to use government to bring about change. Republicans publicly, and some Democrats privately, blame Mr. Obama for not doing more to work across the aisle. The White House and many Democrats scoff at that, laying stalemate at the feet of what they call an obstructionist Republican Party.
然而，奥巴马和许多民主党人却不这么想。在总统任期的当下阶段，奥巴马已成为一个象征，一个让自由派因其无力推动政府发动变革而感到失望的象征。共和党人公开抨击奥巴马没有尽力团结两党，一些民主党人私下里也对此多有指责。白宫和许多民主党人对这种指责嗤之以鼻，他们说，这是蓄意阻挠的共和党引发的僵局，负责任的应该是他们。
Certainly, Mr. Obama can point to landmark actions from his first term, most notably his health care program, the most significant expansion of the social safety net since the Johnson era. He also pushed through an economic stimulus intended to pull the country back from the abyss and Wall Street regulations intended to avert another crisis. But those actions were accomplished in his first two years, back when he had a Democratic Congress and before sky-high deficits brought on an age of austerity.
诚然，奥巴马可以把自己第一任期内的标志性成就拿出来说事，其中最显眼的是他的医改计划，这是自约翰逊时代以来，最重大的社会安全福利网络扩张计划。他还推动通过了旨在把美国拉出深渊的经济刺激计划和旨在避免另一场经济危机的华尔街监管规章。不过，这些行动都是在他第一任期内的头两年里完成的，当时民主党还控制着国会，美国还没有被居高不下的赤字送入财政紧缩时代。
Mr. Obama now confronts the likelihood that he may not come close to anything like those first 24 months in his final six years in office. Day in and day out, the president with the grand aspirations finds himself signing orders and memos that barely move the needle toward the goals he outlined for himself.
在他执政的最后六年里，奥巴马恐怕再也不会有最开始那24个月的成就了。时间一天天过去，这位满怀远大志向的总统发现自己在签署政令和备忘录，对于完成他为自己描画的目标几乎毫无用处。
“I’m going to do my small part,” he said on Tuesday as he signed the executive measures.
他在周二签署行政命令时说，“我要尽到自己的绵薄之力。”
Jeffrey A. Engel, director of the Center for Presidential History at Southern Methodist University, said Mr. Obama’s health program might ultimately be seen as similar to the lasting legacies of the Great Society or the New Deal.
南卫理公会大学(Southern Methodist University)总统史研究中心主任杰弗瑞·A·恩格尔(Jeffrey A. Engel)说，奥巴马的医改计划最终也许会被视为是与传承至今的“伟大社会”(Great Society)纲领和“新政”(New Deal)相类似的遗产。
But the reality of the modern presidency, he said, is that big things are best done right away before second terms devolve into an exercise in aggravation. “It’s more difficult to achieve massive change after that initial mandate because money and media and constant pinpricks can very effectively take the wind out of any president’s sails very quickly,” Mr. Engel said.
不过，他说，现代总统史的现实就是，最好是在情况不断恶化的第二任期之前推动重大的变革。恩格尔说，“想在最初的执政期过后取得任何重大变革实在是难上加难，因为资金、媒体以及接连不断的小麻烦会十分迅速而有效地吞噬掉总统前行的动力。”
When domestic prospects recede, presidents often turn to foreign policy, where they have fewer constraints and Congress is a bit player. Mr. Obama inherited an empowered national security presidency from George W. Bush and has used it to wage a vigorous drone war and preside over an expansive surveillance program in the pursuit of terrorists.
当内政前景渺茫时，总统们往往会求助于外交政策，他们在这一领域受到的限制较少，国会的作用也较小。奥巴马从乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)手中接掌了一个国家安全职责得到强化的总统宝座，他利用这种职责发动了一场声势浩大的无人机战争，还主持了一项以追捕恐怖分子为目标的大规模监听计划。
But he has also had a difficult time dealing with Russia, Syria and the Middle East peace process, and has projected a more restrained American role in the world. If anything, Mr. Obama seems intent on being the anti-Johnson by withdrawing troops from Iraq and Afghanistan rather than letting an overseas quagmire like Vietnam come to dominate his presidency and overshadow any domestic accomplishments. 
不过，他在处理俄罗斯、叙利亚和中东和平进程问题时也一样陷入了困境，在全世界面前，他塑造了一个更为克制的美国的形象。如果说他和约翰逊有任何不同的话，那就是他似乎宁可从伊拉克和阿富汗撤军，也不愿让越南战争这样的海外困境拖垮自己的总统任期，给自己的国内成就蒙上任何阴影。
Washington has changed in many ways since the Great Society. Johnson enjoyed such large Democratic majorities that even when his party lost 47 House seats in the 1966 midterm elections, Democrats still held 61 more than Republicans. The country faced crises both parties felt compelled to address. And political deal making then was different with pork projects called earmarks that are now banned — seedier, perhaps, but also effective.
自从“伟大社会”纲领实施以来，美国政坛在许多方面都已发生改变。约翰逊在任时，民主党在国会中占据了极大优势，哪怕在1966年的中期选举中，民主党丢掉了47个众议院席位，他们依然比共和党多占有61席。当时美国面临着两党均自认不得不出手应对的危机。在当年，政治协议的达成需要的是全然不同的方法，“分猪肉项目”那时叫做“专项拨款”(earmarks)，现在则已被禁止，这类做法虽然更上不得台面，不过却更有效。
Since the Johnson era, the country has grown more skeptical about government. Even Mr. Obama’s biggest legislative project, the health care program, was based on helping uninsured Americans buy coverage in the private market, rather than setting up a government-run system like Medicare. But it still stirred widespread opposition.
自约翰逊时代以来，民众对政府的疑虑加深了。就连奥巴马推出的最大的立法项目，即医改法案，也是以帮助未投保的美国人在私人市场中购买医保为基础，而不是设立一个由政府运行的、类似于联邦医疗保险制度的系统，但它依然激起了广泛的反对。
And the political parties, both ideologically diverse in the 1960s, have grown more homogeneous.
两党在上世纪60年代时，内部的意识形态都相当多元，如今则变得更加同质化。
“The nature of politics has changed,” said Jennifer Palmieri, the White House communications director. “The electorate is more polarized. I think often members of Congress are more concerned with how the voter on the more enthusiastic side of their party is going to react than they would have 50 years ago. That’s a real change.”
白宫通讯联络主任珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)说，“政治的本质已发生变化。选民们更加两极化了。我常常想，与50年前相比，国会议员更加关心本党内那些较为狂热的派系会做何反应。这是一种实实在在的变化。”
Still, few things irritate Mr. Obama and his team more than the comparison to Johnson, which they consider facile and unfair. The notion that Mr. Obama should exert more energy in cajoling, bargaining and even pressuring lawmakers is a common assessment on both sides of the aisle, but it remains unpersuasive in the Oval Office, despite Johnson’s successes.
话虽如此，拿奥巴马和约翰逊做比较，恐怕是最能让他和他的团队恼火的事情之一。他们认为，这种比较既轻率又不公平。两党议员普遍认为，奥巴马应该花更多精力劝诱议员、和他们讨价还价，甚至是给他们施压。尽管约翰逊靠这些手段取得了成功，但这种设想对白宫椭圆形办公室依然缺乏说服力。