Recent political reporting suggests that Republican leaders are in a state of high anxiety, trapped between an angry base that still views Obamacare as the moral equivalent of slavery and the reality that health reform is the law of the land and is going to happen.
最近，有时政报道显示，共和党领导层极度焦虑，困在愤怒的铁杆选民和现实之间，进退维谷。他们的铁杆选民仍然认为，奥巴马医改(Obamacare)在道义上等同于奴隶制，但现实是，医改已成为联邦法律，势在必行。
But those leaders don’t deserve any sympathy. For one thing, that irrational base is a Frankenstein monster of their own creation. Beyond that, everything I’ve seen indicates that members of the Republican elite still don’t get the basics of health reform — and that this lack of understanding is in the process of turning into a major political liability.
共和党领导人不值得一丝一毫的同情。首先，不可理喻的铁杆选民是他们一手打造的弗兰肯斯坦。其次，我的所见所闻均表明，共和党领导层根本不理解医改的实质，而这种不理解正在转变为一个政治上的主要劣势。
On the unstoppability of Obamacare: We have this system in which Congress passes laws, the president signs them, and then they go into effect. The Affordable Care Act went through this process, and there is no legitimate way for Republicans to stop it.
奥巴马医改势在必行：我们的体制规定，国会通过的法案，总统签署之后就会付诸实施。《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)已经走完了这一程序，共和党人没有正当途径予以阻止。
Is there an illegitimate way? Well, the G.O.P. can try blackmail, either by threatening to shut down the government or, an even more extreme tactic, threatening not to raise the debt limit, which would force the United States government into default and risk financial chaos. And Republicans did somewhat successfully blackmail President Obama back in 2011.
歪门邪道呢？好吧，共和党可以尝试勒索这一招，要么发出让政府停摆的威胁，要么干脆采用更极端的手段，威胁不提高举债上限，从而迫使美国政府违约，并带来金融乱局的风险。而且，2011年的时候，共和党人勒索奥巴马总统，多少取得了一些成功。
However, that was then. They faced a president on the ropes after a stinging defeat in the midterm election, not a president triumphantly re-elected. Furthermore, even in 2011 Mr. Obama wouldn’t give ground on the essentials of health care reform, the signature achievement of his presidency. There’s no way he would undermine the reform at this late date.
不过，时过境迁。他们当时面对的总统经历了中期选举的惨败，形势岌岌可危，如今面对的总统则赢得了连任竞选的胜利。再者，医改是奥巴马总统任期的标志性成就，即便是在2011年，他也没有在医改的核心部分上妥协。事到如今，他绝不可能再来破坏这项改革。
Republican leaders seem to get this, even if the base doesn’t. What they don’t seem to get, however, is the integral nature of the reform. So let me help out by explaining, one more time, why Obamacare looks the way it does.
这一点，共和党领导人似乎是明白的，尽管他们的铁杆选民不明白。尽管如此，他们却不明白医改的整体性。那么，就让我再来解释一下，奥巴马医改为何是现在这样的。
Start with the goal that almost everyone at least pretends to support: giving Americans with pre-existing medical conditions access to health insurance. Governments can, if they choose, require that insurance companies issue policies without regard to an individual’s medical history, “community rating,” and some states, including New York, have done just that. But we know what happens next: many healthy people don’t buy insurance, leaving a relatively bad risk pool, leading to high premiums that drive out even more healthy people.
先从几乎每个人至少都装作支持的目标开始谈起，那就是让有病史的美国民众获得医保。如果愿意的话，各级政府可以要求保险公司开据保单的时候不考虑投保人的病史，也就是采用“社群统一费率”(community rating)。包括纽约在内的一些州已经推行了这种方法。我们知道，这样做的后果是什么：大量健康人群不参保，从而让风险分摊体系相对薄弱，导致保费高企，继而驱使更多健康的人不参保。
To avoid this downward spiral, you need to induce healthy Americans to buy in; hence, the individual mandate, with a penalty for those who don’t purchase insurance. Finally, since buying insurance could be a hardship for lower-income Americans, you need subsidies to make insurance affordable for all.
为了避免这种恶性循环，必须引导健康的美国民众参保；因此，要引入个人强制参保的概念，也就是对不购买保险的人予以处罚。最后，由于参保可能会对低收入人群构成负担，所以需要进行补贴，以确保所有人都负担得起。
So there you have it: health reform is a three-legged stool resting on community rating, individual mandates and subsidies. It requires all three legs.
这样大家就明白了：三足鼎立支撑起医保改革，社群统一费率、个人强制参保与补贴，三者缺一不可。
But wait — hasn’t the administration delayed the employer mandate, which requires that large firms provide insurance to their employees? Yes, it has, and Republicans are trying to make it sound as if the employer mandate and the individual mandate are comparable. Some of them even seem to think that they can bully Mr. Obama into delaying the individual mandate too. But the individual mandate is an essential piece of the reform, which can’t and won’t be bargained away, while the employer mandate is a fairly minor add-on that arguably shouldn’t have been in the law to begin with.
等一下，奥巴马政府不是把雇主强制参保——要求大型机构必须给雇员提供医保——推迟施行了吗？的确如此，而且共和党人正努力运作，试图把雇主强制参保和个人强制参保混为一谈。看起来，某些人甚至还认为，可以通过威逼的方式让奥巴马也推迟施行个人强制参保。但是，个人强制参保是医改的核心，不应当也绝不会被拿来在讨价还价的过程中放弃，而雇主强制参保不过是小小的附加，可以说从一开始就不应当被写入医保法案。
I guess that after all the years of vilification it was predictable that Republican leaders would still fail to understand the principles behind health reform and that this would hamper their ability to craft an effective political response as the reform’s implementation draws near. But their rudest shock is yet to come. You see, this thing isn’t going to be the often-predicted “train wreck.” On the contrary, it’s going to work.
我猜，经过长年累月的诋毁中伤，可以想见共和党领导层仍不能明白医改背后的道理，随着医改实施之时日益临近，这一点可能会损害他们作出有效政治回应的能力。不过，最残酷的打击尚未来临。看吧，医改不会成为他们常常念叨的“车毁人亡”；正相反，它会奏效。
Oh, there will be problems, especially in states where Republican governors and legislators are doing all they can to sabotage the implementation. But the basic thrust of Obamacare is, as I’ve just explained, coherent and even fairly simple. Moreover, all the early indications are that the law will, in fact, give millions of Americans who currently lack access to health insurance the coverage they need, while giving millions more a big break in their health care costs. And because so many people will see clear benefits, health reform will prove irreversible.
对了，麻烦要来了，尤其是在共和党州长和议员尽其所能破坏医改实施的那些州。正如我刚才解释的，奥巴马医改的基本要义是连贯一致的，甚至可以说是相当简单的。而且，所有的早期迹象都显示，该法案实际上将使目前尚未被医保覆盖的几百万民众获得所需的保险，同时还会让另外几百万人的医疗开支大大降低。由于有这么多人将看到明显的好处，医改将被证明是不可逆转的。
This achievement will represent a huge defeat for the conservative agenda of weakening the safety net. And Republicans who deluded their supporters into believing that none of this would happen will probably pay a large personal price. But as I said, they have nobody but themselves to blame.
这项成就会给保守派削弱福利制度的努力带来巨大的打击。而欺骗支持者相信，这一切都不会发生的那些共和党人，很可能会付出惨重的个人代价。正如我之前所说的，他们这是自作自受。
On Friday I misstated Eric Cantor’s position. He is the second-ranking Republican in the House, not the third.
上周五的文章里，我搞错了埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)的职位。他是众议院里的共和党二号人物，不是三号。