Trying to explain why young people should buy health insurance, President Obama said his health care plan would cost consumers no more than their cellphone bills. His host, Zach Galifianakis, looked bored. “Is this what they mean by drones?”
为了解释年轻人为什么应该买医疗保险，奥巴马总统说自己的医疗保险计划让消费者花的钱不会超过手机费。主持人扎克·加利菲亚纳基斯(Zach Galifianakis)看起来很厌烦，说道：“这就是人们所说的喋喋不休吗？”
When Mr. Obama appeared on the popular online comedy show “Between Two Ferns” on Tuesday, the question wasn’t whether the president could hold his own — he has already proved that he can keep up with pop culture.
上周二，奥巴马总统在热门网络喜剧秀《在两个弗恩之间》(Between Two Ferns)上亮相时，问题不是他能否受得了——他已经证明了自己跟得上流行文化。
Fans of “Between Two Ferns,” a mock celebrity interview show on the comedy website Funny or Die, mostly wanted to see if the show’s star, Mr. Galifianakis, would treat the president as rudely as he treats his other guests.
《在两个弗恩之间》是喜剧网站Funny or Die的一个名人讽刺采访节目，粉丝们主要是想看看节目的明星主持人加利菲亚纳基斯(Mr. Galifianakis)是否会像对待其他嘉宾那样粗鲁地对待总统。
He did.
他没有手软。
With a straight face, Mr. Galifianakis asked Mr. Obama whether “Ambassador Rodman” had gone to North Korea on his behalf, and if he would now send Hulk Hogan to Syria — or, he asked, “is that more of a job for Tonya Harding?”
加利菲亚纳基斯绷着脸问奥巴马“罗德曼大使”(Ambassador Rodman)去朝鲜是不是他指派的，现在他是否会派胡克·霍根(Hulk Hogan)去叙利亚，又说“也许托尼娅·哈丁(Tonya Harding)去更合适？”
Mr. Obama played along, muttering, “Zach, he’s not our ambassador.”
奥巴马很配合地小声抱怨说，“扎克，他不是我们的大使。”
“Between Two Ferns” is a sendup of public-access shows, with tinny music and misspelled captions, and the humor is webcam deadpan: Mr. Galifianakis solemnly asks inane or cringingly rude questions that guests deflect with varying degrees of awkward silence. (He once asked a stone-faced Natalie Portman: “You shaved your head for ‘V for Vendetta.’ Did you also shave your V for vagina?”)
《在两个弗恩之间》是对公共谈话节目的讽刺性模仿，背景音乐尖细刺耳，字幕里常有拼写错误，幽默之处在于网络摄像头里那种面无表情的脸：加利菲亚纳基斯严肃地提出愚蠢或者令人难堪的粗鲁问题，嘉宾们用不同程度的尴尬沉默表示拒绝回答（他曾经问冷着脸的娜塔莉·波特曼[Natalie Portman]：“你为《V字仇杀队》[V for Vendetta]剃了光头。那你为阴道口剃过阴毛[V for vagina]吗？）
More than any other president, Mr. Obama surfs the media, looking for new ways to reach viewers who don’t watch the news or even television. The president doesn’t seem worried about tarnishing the dignity of his office. As his tenure nears its end, he seems more intent on being the salesman in chief.
奥巴马比其他总统更善于利用媒体，他在寻找新方法去影响那些不看新闻或电视的观众。总统似乎不担心这会有损他办公室的尊严。在任期接近尾声之际，他似乎更乐于担任销售经理的职务。
Mr. Galifianakis seemed most intent on not giving his special guest special treatment. It wasn’t until the end that Mr. Obama finally got what he had gone on the show for, a nonsatirical plug for healthcare.gov. That web address was flashed after the credits for “Between Two Ferns” had rolled, as if to maintain some distance: Comedians, it seems, take their integrity more seriously than presidents.
加利菲亚纳基斯似乎也下定决心不会对这位特殊嘉宾给予特殊照顾。直到最后奥巴马才最终实现了他参加这个节目的目的，healthcare.gov网站得到了一个非讽刺性的植入。这个网址在《在两个弗恩之间》的演职员表滚动结束后出现，好像是为了保持一点距离：喜剧演员们似乎比总统们更在乎自己的节操。
But Mr. Obama is competitive, and he certainly has comedy show experience. He has “slow-jammed” the news with Jimmy Fallon, traded barbs with Stephen Colbert and answered questions from the basketball Hall of Famer Charles Barkley.
但是奥巴马很有竞争力，他当然有喜剧秀的经验。他曾和吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)“慢慢播报”新闻，和史蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)一起冷嘲热讽，还回答过篮球名人堂成员查尔斯·巴克利(Charles Barkley)的提问。
Mr. Obama fell out of character only once. Mr. Galifianakis didn’t answer his question about the annual turkey pardon and instead stared back at him so balefully that Mr. Obama cracked a smile.
只有一次奥巴马出戏了。加利菲亚纳基斯没有回答他关于一年一度的感恩节火鸡放生的问题，而是恶狠狠地回瞪了他一眼，奥巴马忍不住笑了。
Mostly, the president tried to keep up with his host by putting him down — for example, making fun of his flop sequel, “The Hangover Part III” — and that was not quite as funny as his silences.
大部分时候，总统不断打压主持人，试图能同他并驾齐驱，比如取笑他失败的续集《宿醉3》(The Hangover Part III)，不过这没有他的沉默那么好玩。
When Mr. Galifianakis suggested that if Mr. Obama had a son, he would probably be a nerd like his father, Mr. Obama took mock umbrage that sounded like a “Tonight” show joke, not web satire. “Do you think a woman like Michelle Obama would marry a nerd?” he asked indignantly. His host asked if he could speak to the first lady and Mr. Obama replied, “I’m not going to let her near you.”
加利菲亚纳基斯说如果奥巴马有个儿子，他很可能像父亲一样是个书呆子，奥巴马假装生气，不过他的反问更像是《今夜秀》(Tonight)上的笑话，而不是网络讽刺。“你觉得像米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)这样的女人会嫁给一个书呆子吗？”他愤愤不平地问道。主持人问自己能否跟第一夫人说话，奥巴马回答说，“我不会让她靠近你的。”
Still, it took confidence to take his message to such an unwelcoming arena. The caption under his name described him as “community organizer.” His host asked if he would put his presidential library in Hawaii or his “home country of Kenya.”
不过，把他的理念带到这个不友好的平台上还是需要自信的。他名字下面的介绍说他是“社区组织者”。主持人问他会把总统图书馆设在夏威夷还是“祖国肯尼亚”。
When it came time for Mr. Obama to discuss health care, Mr. Galifianakis sighed wearily. “Here we go, O.K., let’s get this out of the way, what did you come here to plug?” When Mr. Obama asked him if he had heard of affordable health care, Mr. Galifianakis replied, “That’s the thing that doesn’t work?”
轮到奥巴马讨论医疗保险时，加利菲亚纳基斯厌倦地叹了口气。“我们开始吧，好吧，我们有话直说，你来这儿想植入什么广告？”奥巴马问他有没有听说过合理医疗保障，加利菲亚纳基斯回答说，“就是那个不管用的保险吗？”
The show dutifully flashed on screen the 800 number that callers can use to sign up for health care, only the number was spelled out: “one eight hundred three one eight two five nine six.”
这个节目尽职尽责地在屏幕上闪现可以申请医疗保险的800免费电话，只不过数字是拼写出来的：“八零零三一八二五九六。”
At the opening, Mr. Galifianakis shuffled his notes and while pretending to be speaking to the president before the show officially began, mumbled, “Sorry I had to cancel a few times.”
在节目一开始，加利菲亚纳基斯一边在笔记本上乱画，一边假装在节目正式开始前和总统说话。他咕咕哝哝地说，“对不起，我之前几次取消了约定。”
(By late Tuesday afternoon, the video had been seen over six million times, the site said.)
（该网站说，截至上周二傍晚，这段视频已经被观看了超过600万次。）
The interview looked as if it had been filmed in the “Between Two Ferns” no-frills studio. But at the end, Mr. Obama pushed a button, and the black backdrop fell, revealing that the interview had actually been recorded in the White House. Even those intimidating surroundings didn’t daunt Mr. Galifianakis. He asked Mr. Obama, “What is it like to be the last black president?”
采访看起来像是在《在两个弗恩之间》简陋的演播室拍摄的，但是最后奥巴马按下按钮，后面的黑幕落了下来，表明采访实际上是在白宫录制的。甚至连这样威慑人的环境也没有吓倒加利菲亚纳基斯。他问奥巴马，“身为最后一位黑人总统，你作何感想？”
Mr. Obama countered: “Seriously? What’s it like for this to be the last time you ever talk to a president?” But that’s not likely.
奥巴马反唇相讥：“真的吗？这是你最后一次与总统交谈，你又作何感想？”
Mr. Obama set a precedent, but so did his host.
奥巴马开了个先河，但这位主持人也开了个先河。