Washington — The twin crises in Ukraine and the Middle East are perhaps the most serious President Obama has faced. He has been spurred into action, but still hopes to balance his show of leadership with his own inclination to protect America from foreign engagements. This is an untenable mix. It will not convince allies or intimidate adversaries, and his effort this week to seem more muscular relies so much on a military solution that it risks a broader military entanglement.
华盛顿——来自乌克兰和中东的双重危机可能是奥巴马总统迄今遇到的最棘手问题。他已经在外界催促之下采取了行动，但奥巴马仍然希望能在展示领导力和让美国远离海外战争的个人倾向之间找到平衡。但这种平衡根本站不住脚。矛盾的奥巴马既不能令盟友信服，也无法震慑对手，而他本周让自己显得更强硬的努力，很大程度上依靠于一份军事方案，后者可能造成更广泛的军事参与。
What’s missing is a grand strategy — a road map not just for managing two crises but for ending them. In that he would do well to look back to 1956 — the last time the United States had to grapple with crises in both Europe and the Middle East.
奥巴马缺少的是一个大战略——一个不仅能应付这两场危机，还要能终结危机的路线图。这就意味着，他最好回顾下1956年——也就是上一次美国不得不同时应付欧洲和中东两场危机的时候。
In that year the Soviet Union invaded Hungary to crush a revolution while Britain and France, seeking to regain the Suez Canal, collaborated with Israel in a war against Egypt. The simultaneous crises could have led to war between the United States and the Soviet Union. Instead, the administration of President Dwight D. Eisenhower assiduously sidestepped military confrontation. It backed away from challenging the Soviet suppression of Hungary, then forced America’s European allies into an ignominious retreat from Egypt.
那一年，苏联为了镇压革命入侵匈牙利，与此同时，为了夺回苏伊士运河，英法与以色列结盟，对埃及发动了战争。这两场同时发生的危机本可能让美苏爆发战争。但在德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)政府兢兢业业的努力下，冲突得以避免。美国不仅没有对苏联镇压匈牙利提出异议，还迫使自己的欧洲盟友灰溜溜地撤出了埃及。
These were difficult and unpopular decisions. With them, the United States confirmed Soviet control of Eastern Europe but not European control of the Middle East. But Eisenhower had a larger goal — not upsetting the delicate balance of power in the Cold War. Above all, he sought to avoid greater conflict, especially when he was trying to start arms control talks with Moscow.
这些决定既艰难，又不受欢迎。这些决定让美国确认了苏联对东欧的控制，却不再承认欧洲对中东的控制。但艾森豪威尔有更大的目标——即避免打破冷战中脆弱的权力平衡。他尤其希望能避免发生更大的冲突，特别是在自己正试图与莫斯科开启军控谈判的时候。
In other words, he had a long-term global perspective.
换句话说，他拥有一个立足长期的全球大局观。
By contrast, American policy today sees the world in fragments — ISIS in Iraq and Syria, Russia in Ukraine. But those crises have something important in common: Both trace to political fragmentation in weak states living within unsettled borders. That leaves those states prone to internal dissent, and America’s recent minimalist posture has given these brewing troubles room to explode into crises.
相比之下，在美国如今的政策中，世界是碎片化的，包括在伊拉克和叙利亚兴风作浪的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），以及在乌克兰制造麻烦的俄罗斯。但这些危机有一个重要的共同点：它们都源于边界存有争议的弱国的政治分裂。这些国家很容易产生内部分歧，而美国最近无为而治的姿态，让这些酝酿中的小麻烦有了升级为大危机的可能。
President Obama has eschewed grand strategy and a global outlook. His escalating sanctions of Russia, and his airstrikes against the Islamic State’s forces in Iraq have punished transgressions, but do not show a path to resolving either crisis. So provocations continue, as does a cycle of escalation.
奥巴马总统没有大战略，也没有一个全球大局观。他不断升级对俄罗斯的制裁，并针对伊拉克境内的ISIS发动空袭，这些做法虽然惩罚了不法分子，但没有提供任何一个解决危机的办法。所以挑衅仍在继续，一如周而复始的制裁升级。
To be sure, America has to thwart Russian advances in Ukraine and defeat the Islamic State. That will require American hard power, but also rallying allies into coalitions that would ultimately share in managing peace and security. Which is where a sound strategy lies.
毫无疑问，美国必须挫败俄罗斯在乌克兰的行动，并且击败ISIS。这将需要美国的硬实力，也需要让盟友们集合成一个最终能够分担维护和平与安全责任的联盟。这也就是好战略的关键所在。
Such a strategy should start from two understandings. First, dealing with Russia and the menace of Sunni extremism are parts of a long game. Second, America’s allies will play that game, but only if they are sure we have a strategy and the staying power to see it through.
这样的战略应基于两个认识。首先，对付俄罗斯和震慑逊尼派极端主义是一个长期任务。其次，美国的盟友只有在确信我们不仅拥有战略，而且还拥有落实战略的耐力的前提下，才会参与我们这个任务。
The broadest problem challenging American interests is neither Russian ambition nor Sunni extremism by itself, but the vacuum of governance that tempts both to prey on splintering neighboring states. American grand strategy should identify these weak countries before they turn on themselves; bolster their political mechanisms for living together in pluralism; declare our unyielding opposition to any outside forces that would seek to divide them. America’s military strength could assure the third part. The rest is work for our political and diplomatic experts.
挑战美国利益最广泛的问题，既不是俄罗斯的野心，也不是逊尼派极端主义本身，而是令他们垂涎的治理真空，他们通过分裂邻国来占据这些真空。美国的大战略，应该在那些弱小国家弱点暴露之前，就把它们识别出来；巩固它们的政治机制以保证他们能够继续多元共存；而且还要声明我们对于任何试图分裂它们的外部势力，都会予以坚决反对。美国的军事实力可以为第三部分提供保障。剩下的事情就是政治和外交专家的工作了。
It is one thing to declare the sanctity of borders; it is quite another to assure that those borders provide their inhabitants peace and security rather than oppression and instability. The missing piece of the president’s approach is a concerted international program to help weak states deliver the popular contentment that reinforces loyalty to nations as they now exist.
宣称国家边界神圣不可犯是一回事；而确保那些国家为其居民提供和平与安全，而不是压迫和动荡，又是另一回事。奥巴马的战略缺少的是一个协调一致的国际计划以帮助弱国让公众满意，从而进一步提高公众对现有国家的忠诚度。
In the 1950s, containing the Soviet reach and the terrifying nuclear arms race were obvious first priorities. The problem Mr. Obama faces, from Donetsk to Mosul, is quite different — the simultaneous drives of a relatively weaker Russia and a terror-prone faction of religious Middle East extremists to bite off chunks of nearby states by inflaming sectarian, tribal or ethnic antagonisms within them. Today’s Russian menace and Islamic State horrors are threats to be sure, but largely because Ukraine, Syria, Iraq and other potential targets all contain within them ethnic groups and sects fighting over power and influence. So Mr. Obama’s big challenge is to help weak states reconcile, compromise and unite, and thus deny enemies a chance to start civil wars.
在20世纪50年代，遏制苏联的扩张，以及开展可怕的核军备竞赛，显然是当时的首要任务。而目前，从顿涅茨克到摩苏尔，奥巴马面临的问题却截然不同——相对较收敛的俄罗斯和有恐怖主义倾向的中东极端教派，同时都通过煽动教派、部族或种族对立，占据了邻国的一大块领土。眼下，俄罗斯的恐吓和ISIS的恐怖行动当然是一大威胁，但主要问题还是在于乌克兰、叙利亚、伊拉克和其他潜在目标，其内部都有民族和教派在争夺权力和影响力。因此，奥巴马的一大挑战就是要帮助弱国内部实现调解、妥协和团结，从而防止敌人找到机会，引发内战。
If that sounds like nation building, it is. Americans loathe the label, and building up Ukraine would differ from building up Iraq. But in any such country the American endgame must embrace political reconciliation.
这听起来像在搞国家建设，实际也是如此。美国人讨厌这个说法，而且建设乌克兰也不同于建设伊拉克。但是，在任何国家，美国的收官之举必须是政治和解。
To resolve their crises, both Ukraine and Iraq will have to agree to new power-sharing formulas. So American pressure on Russia must be coupled with diplomacy that defends Kiev’s right to full sovereignty over all of Ukraine while granting Russian-speaking easterners much greater local self-rule and representation. Similarly, in Iraq there will be no end to Sunni extremism until a political formula brings government to the lawless Sunni territory in the west and north, and brings Sunni claims into better balance with those of the majority Shiites. Otherwise Sunni extremism will persist, under the banner of one militia and caliphate or another, and one day American boots will again seem needed on the ground.
为了解决危机，乌克兰和伊拉克都必须承诺新的权力分享机制。所以，美国在对俄罗斯施压的时候，也必须采取这样的政策：既捍卫基辅对乌克兰全部领土的主权完整，同时又赋予讲俄语的东部地区更大的自治权和代表权。同样，在伊拉克，除非能有一种政治机制，能将政府治理推广到在西部和北部逊尼派聚居的法外之地，还要更好地平衡逊尼派和占多数的什叶派的诉求，否则逊尼派极端主义是不会消亡的，它会打着民兵武装和哈里发国或其他旗帜阴魂不散，直到有朝一日，这个地方变得似乎又需要美军介入了。