WASHINGTON — President Obama declared this week’s botched execution in Oklahoma “deeply disturbing” and directed the attorney general on Friday to review how the death penalty is applied in the United States at a time when it has become increasingly debated.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统称俄克拉荷马州本周的拙劣处决“令人深感不安”，并于周五指示司法部长对美国的死刑应用情况进行审查。目前，死刑问题引发了越来越多的争论。
Weighing in on a polarizing issue that he rarely discusses, Mr. Obama said the Oklahoma episode, in which a prisoner remained groaning in pain after sedatives were apparently not fully delivered, underscored concerns with capital punishment as it is carried out in America today. While reiterating his support for the death penalty in certain cases, Mr. Obama said Americans should “ask ourselves some difficult and profound questions” about its use.
奥巴马谈到了这个他很少涉及的引发极端分歧的问题，并且表示，由于美国仍在执行死刑，俄克拉荷马州的事件突显了相关的担忧。在该事件中，一名囚犯痛苦呻吟，看起来是由于镇静剂剂量不足。奥巴马重申了对特定案例适用死刑的支持，但也表示，美国人应该就死刑的应用“思考一些意义重大的艰难问题”。
Within hours, the Justice Department outlined a relatively narrow review focused on how executions are carried out rather assessing the entire system. But given Mr. Obama’s broader comments, supporters and opponents wondered whether he might be foreshadowing an eventual shift in position by the time he leaves office, much as he dropped his opposition to same-sex marriage in 2012.
几个小时之内，司法部( Justice Department)就概述了关于死刑执行情况的一次范围相对狭窄的审查，但却没有对整个制度进行评估。不过，听过奥巴马的泛泛评论之后，支持者和反对者都在怀疑，他是否在为卸任时的最终立场改变做铺垫，就像他在2012年放弃反对同性婚姻一样。
“In the application of the death penalty in this country, we have seen significant problems — racial bias, uneven application of the death penalty, you know, situations in which there were individuals on death row who later on were discovered to have been innocent because of exculpatory evidence,” Mr. Obama told reporters. “And all these, I think, do raise significant questions about how the death penalty is being applied.”
“在本国的死刑应用中，我们看到了一些重大的问题，比如种族歧视和死刑应用标准不一，有些案例当中，后来发现的无罪证据还表明死刑犯是无辜的，”奥巴马告诉记者。“我认为，这些情况确实引发了有关死刑应用的重大疑问。”
Whether Mr. Obama’s concerns lead to policy proposals remained far from certain, but the administration review comes at a time when the use of the death penalty has begun to recede in the United States. The number of executions has fallen by half since its modern peak in 2000, while a half-dozen states have abolished capital punishment over the last seven years and others have imposed moratoriums or are exploring legislation to repeal it.
目前还远远不能确定，奥巴马的关注是否会带来政策建议，不过，奥巴马政府进行审查之时，美国的死刑应用已经开始缩减。死刑执行数量于2000年达到现代时期的顶峰，如今已经减少了一半，有六个州在过去七年里废除了死刑，其他一些州则已经暂停死刑，或是正在就立法废除死刑进行探讨。
The federal government has effectively imposed its own moratorium on carrying out executions since 2010 while trying to figure out issues surrounding the drug cocktail commonly used for lethal injection. The Justice Department said Friday that it would build on that assessment.
自2010年以来，联邦政府一方面努力解决围绕注射死刑常用的调配毒剂产生的问题，一方面也有效实施了暂停执行死刑的禁令。司法部周五表示，该机构将在前述评估的基础上继续进行审查。
“At the president’s direction, the department will expand this review to include a survey of state-level protocols and related policy issues,” said Brian Fallon, a department spokesman.
司法部发言人布赖恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)表示，“根据总统的指示，司法部将扩大审查范围，纳入对州一级规定及相关政策问题的调查。”
For Democrats, opposition to the death penalty has been considered politically untenable at the national level ever since Michael S. Dukakis cost himself support with a clinical answer during a 1988 presidential debate about whether he would support it if his wife were raped and killed.
在1988年的一场总统竞选辩论中，有人问迈克尔·S·杜卡基斯(Michael S. Dukakis)，如果他的妻子被强奸并杀害，他是否会支持死刑，杜卡基斯的冷漠回答使他失去了选民的支持。自此以后，民主党人便认为，从全国范围来看，反对死刑的主张在政治上站不住脚。
But critics argue that the times have changed with reports of racial disparity and DNA evidence exonerating some on death row. Sixty percent of the American public still backs the death penalty for those convicted of murder, but support has fallen to the lowest level in more than 40 years, according to Gallup.
但批评人士称，时代已经变了，因为有报告显示，种族差异和DNA证据已经让一些人免于被执行死刑。据盖洛普(Gallup)称，60%的美国民众依然支持对谋杀犯处以死刑，但死刑支持率已跌至40多年来的最低水平。
For his part, Mr. Obama has been more willing to address issues like racial disparity and other problems in the criminal justice system since his re-election. He is currently planning to use his clemency powers to release hundreds and perhaps even thousands of drug convicts serving long sentences for less serious infractions.
就奥巴马个人而言，自再次当选以来，他已经更加愿意谈论种族差异之类的问题，以及刑事司法制度的其他问题。眼下，他正计划利用自己的特赦权来释放数百乃至数千名毒品犯，这些人正因不那么严重的犯罪活动服长期徒刑。
“I suspect this being his last term, there could be ulterior motives to weaken the death penalty system,” said David B. Muhlhausen, a criminal justice researcher at the conservative Heritage Foundation. “People who believe in the death penalty should be very concerned about this.”
“我估计，鉴于这是他的最后一个任期，他削弱死刑制度的举动可能有一些潜藏的动机，”立场保守的传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)的刑事司法研究人员戴维·B·穆尔豪森(David B. Muhlhausen)说。“支持死刑制度的人应该密切关注这一点。”
For now, Mr. Obama said his position had not changed.
目前，奥巴马称自己的立场没有改变。
“The individual who was subject to the death penalty had committed heinous crimes, terrible crimes,” he said of the Oklahoma inmate. “And I’ve said in the past that there are certain circumstances in which a crime is so terrible that the application of the death penalty may be appropriate — mass killings, the killings of children.”
“被处死刑的那名犯人犯下了令人发指的严重罪行，”他说的是俄克拉荷马州的那名犯人，“而且我过去说过，确实存在罪行非常严重、应该判处死刑的情况，比如大规模杀戮和杀害儿童。”
Oklahoma authorities were trying to carry out two executions on Tuesday night when the first one went awry. Clayton D. Lockett, convicted of the murder of a 19-year-old woman whom he shot and buried alive, started writhing in pain as he received the lethal injection drugs, and died later. The second execution was called off.
周二夜间，俄克拉荷马官方原本打算执行两场处决，但是，第一场处决就出了问题，犯人是克莱顿·D·洛基特(Clayton D. Lockett)，因枪击一名19岁女子并将其活埋而被判谋杀罪。接受注射死刑之后，他开始痛苦挣扎，过了一段时间才死去。第二场处决由此取消。
Mr. Lockett’s ordeal prompted a lawyer for a Missouri death row inmate to ask state corrections officials to videotape her client’s execution scheduled for this month to record any suffering.
鉴于洛基特的痛苦经历，一名密苏里州死刑犯的律师要求州监狱官员将处决其委托人的过程拍摄下来，以查看过程中是否存在痛苦。她的委托人将于本月被处决。
Diann Rust-Tierney, executive director of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, applauded Mr. Obama’s resolve to investigate concerns about Oklahoma and the use of capital punishment more generally.
废除死刑全国联盟(National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty)的执行理事黛安·拉斯特-迪尔尼(Diann Rust-Tierney)赞扬了奥巴马的决定，支持对俄克拉荷马州事件及更广泛的死刑应用问题进行调查。
“The significant thing is the president as a person who supports the death penalty is expressing these concerns,” she said. “The president is not alone among those who support the death penalty who say this execution crossed the line and has other concerns.”
“重要的是，总统虽然支持死刑，却也表达了这些担忧，”她说。“除了总统之外，其他很多支持死刑的人也表示这次的处决有些过分，并且存在其他问题。”