WASHINGTON — The Obama administration has drawn up plans to escalate sanctions against Russia by targeting its financial, energy and defense industries but faces resistance from European allies hoping to avoid a broader economic clash with Moscow that would hurt their own businesses.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府已制定计划，加大针对俄罗斯金融、能源和国防工业的制裁，然而，此举却面临欧洲盟友的抵触，后者希望避免和俄方产生更大规模的经济冲突，因为那将伤害他们自己的企业。
Even as the Kremlin voices support for a cease-fire in eastern Ukraine, American officials remain unconvinced that it has backed up words with deeds. Russia has moved troops back to the border and positioned heavy artillery there in what American officials consider an effort to help the separatists, who on Tuesday shot down a Ukrainian military helicopter.
尽管俄罗斯声言支持乌克兰东部签订停火协议，美国官员依然不确定，俄方是否已付诸实际行动。俄罗斯已经重新将部队调动到边境，并部署了重型火炮，美国官员认为此举是为了协助分裂分子，后者于本周二击落了一架乌克兰军用直升机。
But President Obama faces hurdles as he tries to keep the pressure up on the government of President Vladimir V. Putin. European Union leaders, who are scheduled to meet Friday in Brussels, are reluctant to go along if it looks like Mr. Putin may be backing down. And American business leaders objecting to unilateral actions that would hurt their companies are kicking off an advertising campaign to oppose Mr. Obama’s plans.
不过，在设法维持对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的高压时，奥巴马总统遇到了阻碍。假如普京表现出似乎要退让的姿态，计划于本周五在布鲁塞尔举行会晤的欧盟(European Union)领导人就会不愿支持奥巴马的计划。一些美国商业领导人反对美国实施会伤及他们的企业的单边行动，这些公司已经发起了一项宣传活动，反对奥巴马的计划。
Mr. Obama spoke with Mr. Putin on Monday to urge him to take more tangible steps to defuse the crisis, and the Russian leader on Tuesday seemed to respond by asking his Parliament to rescind formal authorization to intervene militarily in Ukraine. American officials considered the move positive but symbolic, assuming that it was really meant to undercut European support for additional sanctions.
本周一，奥巴马和普京通话时敦促普京采取更加实质性的措施来化解危机，普京似乎在周二作出了回应，他要求俄罗斯议会撤销其对武力干预乌克兰的正式授权。美国官员认为，这虽是积极之举，但只有象征意义，他们推测，此举的真实意图是动摇欧洲在加强制裁问题上的立场。
As Secretary of State John Kerry and other American diplomats visited Brussels to talk with their European counterparts, Mr. Obama called Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain on Tuesday to consult on the next steps in the crisis, which could be decided this week.  Both men indicated afterward that Russia had yet to take the sort of actions demanded by the Group of 7 industrial nations this month to avoid additional sanctions.
本周二，就在国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和其他美国外交官抵达布鲁塞尔，和他们的欧洲同行举行会谈之际，奥巴马致电英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)，商议了下一步的危机应对举措，将在本周内做出决定。两人随后暗示，七国集团(Group of 7)于本月提出了一些可使俄方避免进一步制裁的行动，但俄罗斯至今仍未落实此类行动。
“What we’re focused here on is not just the words of the Russian president, though we welcome them,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary. “What we’re focused on are the actions.”
白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说，“我们关注的不仅是俄罗斯总统的表态，虽说我们对此表示欢迎。我们关注的是行动。”
Mr. Cameron’s office said Russia had not halted the flow of militants and arms into Ukraine nor stopped training separatist groups. The American and British leaders “reaffirmed their commitment to implementing further sanctions on Russia if these things don’t happen,” Mr. Cameron’s office said in a statement.
卡梅伦办公室表示，俄罗斯还没有停止向乌克兰输送武装人员和武器，也没有停止培训分裂组织。在一则声明中，卡梅伦办公室表示，美英领导人“重申了双方的承诺，即如果俄罗斯不落实行动，他们将对俄方实施进一步的制裁。”
The Obama administration has developed three options for further actions, according to government officials: banning any interactions with some of Russia’s largest banks; cutting off technology transfers to Russian energy and defense firms; and shutting down business with Russian defense companies.
据政府官员透露，奥巴马政府已为进一步的行动制定了三种选择，第一种是禁止美国和俄罗斯最大的一些银行进行任何交易；第二种是掐断对俄能源公司和军工企业的技术转让；第三种是中止与俄军工企业的业务往来。
Any of these actions would go far beyond the narrow penalties meted out to date against individual Russian officials, businessmen and their companies. But they would fall short of the most powerful sanctions available, like those imposed on Iran. American officials have concluded that Iran-style sanctions would not be as effective against Russia, which has a broader economy. Instead, they are looking for actions that will have demonstrable impact but also avoid disrupting global markets.
比起目前对个别官员、商人及其公司施加的有限惩处，这些措施中的任何一种都要严厉得多。不过它们仍然不是现有的制裁手段中最严厉的，例如对伊朗实施的那些手段。美国官员断定，伊朗式的制裁对俄罗斯的效果可能不大，俄罗斯的经济规模比较大。他们正在寻找能够产生显著影响，但不会扰乱全球市场的举措。
Congressional aides briefed by the administration said the planned moves would be a forceful increase in pressure on Russia but not a full-scale economic attack. While the plans will not assuage some lawmakers who have called for tougher action, the aides said they would go a long way toward satisfying many.
听取政府简报的国会助手表示，该行动计划将会极大地加剧俄罗斯的压力，但这不是全面经济攻击。虽然这些计划无法安抚一些要求采取更为强硬的举措的议员，但助手们表示它们应该有助于让许多议员感到满意。
Whether the Europeans would go along remained an open question. American officials expressed optimism that they were finding common ground with the allies but recognized that it was unlikely that the European Union, with 28 member states that operate by consensus, would take the same actions as the United States. The Europeans may also move to defer the toughest steps.
目前尚不清楚欧洲人是否支持此类计划。美国官员表达了乐观态度，称他们正在与盟友寻找共同立场，但他们承认，欧盟不太可能采取与美国一样的行动，欧盟28个成员国依据共识采取行动。欧洲人或许会推迟采取最为强硬的举措。
European Union foreign ministers met to discuss Ukraine on Monday. When they meet again on Friday, crucial to any decision will be Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, whose country has extensive energy and economic ties to Russia. Mr. Obama spoke last Friday with Ms. Merkel as well as with President François Hollande of France to press for continued unity.
周一，欧盟各国外长举行会晤讨论乌克兰问题。他们将于周五再次举行会晤，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)将对决定产生至关重要的作用，德国与俄罗斯拥有广泛的能源及经济关系。上周五，奥巴马与默克尔及法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande通话，强烈要求各国保持团结。
American officials were urging their European counterparts not to give too much credit to Mr. Putin for positive statements in recent days. Twice before, they argued — in April and then again this month when he attended a D-Day commemoration in France — Mr. Putin has seemed to embark on what they called a “charm offensive” to deflate any momentum within the European Union toward tougher sanctions.
美国官员呼吁欧盟官员不要因为普京最近的积极声明而过于相信他。他们辩称，普京之前似乎开展了他们所谓的“魅力攻势”，以便削弱欧盟内部支持更严厉制裁的势头，这种情况出现了两次，一次是今年4月，一次是普京本月在法国参加诺曼底登陆日纪念活动的时候。
If the Europeans are not willing to actually impose new sanctions after Friday’s meeting, the American side hopes to reach agreement on a package that would be ready to use if Mr. Putin does not follow through on his recent positive statements or reverts back to more hostile actions once the meeting has passed. In effect, that would make the sanctions package a deterrent.
如果周五的会晤结束后，欧洲人不愿实施新制裁，美国方面希望各方就备用计划达成一致，以防普京在会议结束后，不遵循最近发表的积极声明，或者再次采取敌对行动。实际上，这会使制裁计划成为一种威慑。
Some analysts said the support for sanctions has diminished in Europe. Macro-Advisory Ltd., a consultant firm in Moscow, told clients that there might be “so-called scalpel sanctions later this week” but predicted that “the emergence of political pragmatism in Kiev and Moscow” would avert “more serious trade- and economy-disrupting sanctions.”
一些分析人士表示，欧洲对制裁举措的支持力度有所减弱。俄罗斯宏观咨询公司(Macro-Advisory)告诉客户，“本周晚些时候可能会出台所谓的严厉制裁”，但该公司预测称“基辅和莫斯科的政治实用主义的出现”会阻止有关方面采取“更为严重的扰乱贸易和经济的制裁举措”。