When the Labor Department recently gave states grants to expand paid family leave, the money came from the department’s Women’s Bureau. But in the State of the Union address on Tuesday, President Obama argued that paid leave is not just a women’s issue. “It’s time we stop treating child care as a side issue, or a women’s issue, and treat it like the national economic priority that it is for all of us,” he said. It’s often an economic necessity today for both parents in a household to work, he said.
当美国劳工部(Labor Department)近期发放各州补助金以推广带薪家事假时，这笔钱款是来自该部的妇女事务局(Women's Bureau)的。但在周二的国情咨文演讲中，奥巴马总统称，带薪休假不只是一个女性问题。“我们应该停止将育儿当作枝节问题、或一个女性问题来对待，并把它当作国家经济工作的首要问题来对待，它关乎我们所有人，”他说道。他说，现今，家庭中的父母双方都工作往往具有经济上的必要性。
That is a reality that American families know well. Seventy-one percent of women with children at home work, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
这是美国家庭甚为了解的事实。据美国劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)数字，71%家里有孩子的女性有工作。
The percentage of women in the labor force in the United States is declining, even as it continues to rise in other high-income countries. A main reason is that policies that make it possible for parents to work have not kept pace with changing family structures in the United States, while other countries provide working families with more support. The policies that President Obama proposed to address the issue are nowhere near the policies that many European countries offer, but they would mark a significant change.
女性在美国劳动力大军中的占比正在减少，即使该占比在其他高收入国家持续增长。一个主要原因是，使父母工作成为可能的政策没有跟上美国正在变化的家庭结构，而其他国家为工薪家庭提供了更多支持。奥巴马总统提出的解决这个问题的政策远不及许多欧洲国家提供的政策，但是它们将标志着一个重大的变化。
For example, he said he would give federal employees six weeks of paid leave after the birth of a child.
例如，他说他将给予联邦雇员在子女出生后的六周带薪假期。
The United States is the only high-income country not to require paid leave for workers. Britain gives new mothers 52 weeks; Italy gives 22 weeks; and Japan gives 14 weeks. The president said the government would provide $2.2 billion to reimburse states for paid family leave programs, and called for Congress to pass a bill that would enable workers to earn seven paid sick days. His plan also included creating more child care and giving families a child-care tax cut of up to $3,000 per child per year.
美国是惟一一个没有法定带薪假期的高收入国家。英国予以新妈妈52周休假；意大利予以22周休假；日本予以14周休假。总统说，政府将提供22亿美元来为各州报销带薪家事假计划的开支，并呼吁国会通过一项使劳工能获得七天病假的法案。他的计划也包括创建更多托儿所，及给予所有家庭每个孩子每年多达3000美元的育儿税费减免。