WASHINGTON — Two things were clear long before the votes were counted on Tuesday night: President Obama would face a Congress with more Republicans for his final two years in office, and the results would be seen as a repudiation of his leadership.
华盛顿——在周二晚间统计选票之前，有两件事早就已经确定无疑：一是奥巴马总统在任期最后两年里将面对一个由更多的共和党议员组成的国会；二是中期选举结果会被外界看做是对他领导能力的否定。
But that was not the way Mr. Obama saw it. The electoral map was stacked against him, he argued, making Democrats underdogs from the start. And his own party kept him off the trail, meaning he never really got the chance to make his case. “You’re in the Final Four,” as one aide put it, “and you’re on the bench with a walking boot and you don’t get to play.”
但奥巴马并不这么觉得。他辩称，这次的选战组合对己不利，让民主党从一开始就处于劣势。而且，他被自己所在的政党晾在了一边，也就是说，他从来没有真正获得表达自己主张的机会。正如他的一位幕僚所说，“你进入了四强，却戴着护具坐在板凳上，没机会上场。”
The Republican capture of the Senate culminated a season of discontent for the president — and may yet open a period of even deeper frustration. Sagging in the polls and unwelcome in most competitive races across the country, Mr. Obama bristled as the last campaign that would influence his presidency played out while he sat largely on the sidelines. He privately complained that it should not be a judgment on him. “He doesn’t feel repudiated,” the aide said Tuesday night.
共和党获得参议院的控制权，结束了一个对奥巴马满腹牢骚的时期，却可能会开启另一个更加怨声载道的阶段。支持率不断下降，且在全美各个最激烈的选战中不受欢迎，奥巴马被激怒了，因为在最后一场会对自己总统任期产生影响的竞选如火如荼地进行之时，他却基本上只能旁观。他私下里抱怨，中期选举不应该算作是对自己的评判。“他并不觉得自己被否定了，”这名幕僚周二晚间说。
But in a hyperactive, deeply polarized time in history, Mr. Obama now faces a daunting challenge in reasserting his relevance in a capital that will soon enough shift its attention to the battle to succeed him. If the hope-and-change phase of his presidency is long over, he wants at least to produce a period of progress and consolidation to complete his time in the White House.
然而，在一个无比活跃又深度分化的历史时期，奥巴马如今面临着一项艰巨的挑战，那就是要重新证明自己在华盛顿的重要性。这里很快就会把关注转向角逐奥巴马继任者的选战中。如果说他的总统任期中“希望与变革”的阶段早已结束，那么他如今渴望，至少能带来一段进步和合作的时期，直到自己的白宫岁月完结。
He will kick off that effort on Wednesday when aides expect him to hold a news conference seeking bipartisan accommodation on issues of mutual interest, and he plans to host Republican and Democratic leaders at the White House on Friday. At the same time, aides said, Mr. Obama is eager to throw off the constraints of a campaign that he did not direct and begin to defend his record in a more robust way.
他将于周三开始这一行动。幕僚们表示，届时他将举行新闻发布会，寻求在共同关心的问题上实现两党和解。他还打算周五在白宫招待两党领袖。与此同时，幕僚们称，奥巴马想赶紧摆脱这场不由他指挥的选战造成的种种桎梏，开始以更坚定的方式为自己的执政业绩辩护。
“He’s going to be aggressive. He’s ready to go,” said another senior official, who like others did not want to be identified discussing plans before the election results were tabulated. “We’ve got a lot of important stuff to get done in the lame duck. He’ll talk about that tomorrow. We’ve got a lot of important stuff to get done in the last two years. He’s anxious to get going on that.”
“他将勇往直前。他做好了行动的准备，”另一名高级官员说。与其他人一样，由于是在选举结果正式发布之前讨论总统未来的计划，此人要求不具名。“在跛脚鸭阶段，我们仍然有许多重要的事情要完成。他明天会谈论这一点。在最后的两年，我们还有很多重要的事情要完成。他已经迫不及待地想要开始行动。”
To Republicans, it sounded as if Mr. Obama was hardly chastened or heeding the message of the election, evidently more anxious to find excuses than to rethink the way he has governed. Absent a change in attitude from the president and a genuine outreach on issues that matter to them, Republicans said, the next two years could simply usher in even more political squabbling.
在共和党人听来，这好像是在说，奥巴马根本没有心怀愧疚或是吸取这次选举释放的讯息，他显然更急于寻找借口，而不是反思自己的执政方式。共和党人表示，鉴于总统缺少态度的改变，也没有真正地试图着手解决对他们来说很重要的问题，未来两年只会出现更多的政治争吵。
“There’s a huge opportunity to get things done if his frame of mind is in the right place, and it’s not clear it is,” said Sara Taylor Fagen, who was President George W. Bush’s political director when he lost Congress in 2006. “He’s never shown an interest or willingness to work with members of Congress. Talk to Democrats — they don’t feel he ever made an effort to court them. It’s not clear he’ll make an effort to court Republicans.”
“如果他的态度端正，还是很有可能做成一些事情的，现在却看不出是这种情况，”萨拉·泰勒·费根(Sara Taylor Fagen)说。在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)2006年失去国会控制权时，费根是总统的政治事务主任。“他从未表现出有兴趣或意愿与议员合作。你可以去问民主党人——他们从来没觉得奥巴马花过心思去讨好他们。目前也看不出他会去努力讨好共和党人。”
Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois, said both parties needed to find a way to get past their mutual suspicions to forge a new working relationship. “He feels burned, and we feel burned too,” Mr. Kinzinger said. “For four years, it’s been a lot of mistrust on both sides.”
来自伊利诺伊州的共和党众议员亚当·金青格(Adam Kinzinger)称，两党都需要找到一种方式，抛开对彼此的疑虑，打造新的合作关系。“奥巴马觉得精疲力尽，我们也觉得精疲力尽，”金青格说。“四年来，双方都存在着很大的不信任。”
Just two years after Mr. Obama’s re-election, the midterm results underscored just how far he has fallen in the public mind. Nearly six out of 10 voters on Tuesday expressed negative feelings about his administration, according to exit polls. For every two voters who said they had cast ballots to support Mr. Obama, three said they were voting to express their opposition to him.
在奥巴马连任仅两年后，中期选举结果突显了他在公众心目中的形象下降的程度。根据对投了票的选民的调查，10位选民中有近6位在周二表示对奥巴马的政府有负面感觉。只有40%的选民表示，他们投了支持奥巴马的票，60%的选民表示他们来投票是为了表达自己反对奥巴马。
The electorate was deeply pessimistic about the country, with seven out of 10 describing the economy as not so good or poor and eight out of 10 expressing worry about the direction of the economy in the next year.
选民对国家深感悲观，70%的人认为经济不太好或较差，80%的人对经济在明年的走向表示担忧。
Numbers like that discouraged Mr. Obama’s aides, who said they had not done a good job getting out the president’s record, noting that the deficit has fallen by half, unemployment is now below 6 percent, the price of gasoline has fallen sharply and the economy is growing at a decent rate.
这样的数字令奥巴马的助手气馁，他们表示，他们在宣传总统的业绩上做得不好，他们指出，赤字下降了一半，失业率目前低于6％，汽油的价格大幅回落，经济增长的速度可嘉。
Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. talked about that at a lunch last week, according to an administration official, and the vice president later gave voice to it in a CNN interview aired on Monday. “We have to be more direct and clear about exactly what it is we’re looking to do,” Mr. Biden said.
奥巴马和副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在上周一个午餐会上都提到了这些，据一位政府官员说，副总统后来在接受CNN采访时也提到这些，该节目在周一晚间播出。拜登说，“我们对我们真正寻求要做的事情必须更直接、更清楚。”
But Mr. Obama was focused on the odds against him. His staff researched it and told him that no president in more than a half-century had as many Senate seats open in states lost by the president. 
但是，奥巴马关心的是对他不利的形势。他手下的工作人员对此进行了研究，他们告诉他，在半个多世纪中，还没有一位总统在自己没能赢得多数票的州中面对这么多的参议院席位空缺。
He had long ago given up hope that he would be able to push through some of his favorite priorities before leaving office. He told a former aide several weeks ago that he knew he would never be able to expand pre-kindergarten as he once hoped, and regretted it. But he hopes for possible deals on corporate taxes, trade and infrastructure. And he will try to use the lame-duck session of the departing Democratic Senate to push through as many nominations as possible.
奥巴马早就放弃了能在卸任前让国会通过一些自己最想解决的当务之急的希望。他曾在几周前对一名前助手说，他知道他将永远无法像自己所期望的那样扩大学前班项目，这让他颇为遗憾。但他希望在企业税收、贸易和基础设施上仍有所作为。他将试图在民主党即将失去多数党地位的参议院的最后议会期间通过尽可能多的任命提名。