WASHINGTON — With the first enrollment deadline now passed, Republicans who have made the repeal of President Obama’s health care law their central aim are confronting a new reality: More than two million Americans are expected to be getting their health insurance through the Affordable Care Act come Jan. 1.
华盛顿——目前，在线注册医保的首轮期限已过，把废除奥巴马总统的医改法案视为核心目标的共和党人，正面临一个新现实：预计将有200多万美国人通过《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)获得将于明年1月1日生效的医疗保险。
The enrollment figures may be well short of what the Obama administration had hoped for. But the fact that a significant number of Americans are now benefiting from the program is resulting in a subtle shift among Republicans.
注册人数也许远远小于奥巴马政府的期盼值。不过，大量美国人正从该项目获益的事实，在共和党人中间引发了微妙的转变。
“It’s no longer just a piece of paper that you can repeal and it goes away,” said Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin and a Tea Party favorite. “There’s something there. We have to recognize that reality. We have to deal with the people that are currently covered under Obamacare.”
“它不再只是一纸能被你废除，之后就会消失不见的空文。它是事实存在的。我们必须认清现实。我们必须和目前被奥巴马医改法案覆盖的群体打交道。”威斯康星州共和党参议员、茶党(Tea Party)红人罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)说。
And that underscores a central fact of American politics since Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act during the Depression: Once a benefit has been bestowed, it is nearly impossible to take it away.
这番言论突显了自富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)在大萧条期间签署《社会安全福利法案》(Social Security Act)以来，美国政坛中的关键现实：福利一旦被发放出去，就几乎不可能再被取消。
Republicans are considering several ideas for how to proceed. Mr. Johnson argued that Congress should do away with the mandate that most people obtain insurance, but not the online exchanges at the heart of the law. Instead, he said, the options in the marketplaces should be augmented by other choices that fall short of the law’s coverage standards, such as catastrophic health plans. (Many policy analysts and insurance companies say such a move would not work, because the mandates are essential to delivering a diverse pool of uninsured people.)
共和党人正在考虑几项处理方案。约翰逊主张，国会应该取缔对大部分民众必须获得保险的要求的授权，而不是取缔处于医改法案核心的在线交易所。他说，正相反，应该增加交易所的选项，把达不到法案保障要求的其他选项加入其中，比如大病医疗计划(catastrophic health plans)。（许多政策分析人士和保险公司表示，约翰逊的提议行不通，因为国会的授权是未投保群体多样化的必要条件）。
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said that health care strategy was the hottest topic of debate in closed-door political sessions.
南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说，医改策略是闭门政治会议中最热门的辩论话题。
“The hardest problem for us is what to do next,” Mr. Graham said. “Should we just get out of the way and point out horror stories? Should we come up with a mini Contract With America on health care, or just say generally if you give us the Congress, the House and the Senate in 2014, here’s what we will do for you on multiple issues including health care? You become a more effective critic when you say, ‘Here’s what I’m for,’ and we’re not there yet. So there’s our struggle.”
格雷厄姆说，“对我们来说，最棘手的问题是下一步该怎么做。我们是应该就此让路，只拿可怕的报道说说事？还是该就医改问题制定一份微缩版的‘美国契约’(Contract With America)，抑或只是笼统的说，只要你在2014年把国会的参议院和众议院交给我们，我们就会在包括医改在内的诸多议题上有所作为？当你明说，‘这就是我所支持的’，你会成为一名更有效的批评者。我们还没做到这一步，而这正是我们要奋力去做的。”
Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, said she was teaming up with Democrats on a host of incremental changes to the law, such as expanding health savings accounts and repealing a tax on medical devices. And other Republicans are wondering aloud how long they can keep up the single-minded tactic of highlighting what is wrong with the law without saying what they would do about the problems it was supposed to address.
新罕布什尔州共和党参议员凯利·阿约特(Kelly Ayotte)说，她正在和民主党人联手，就医改法案提出大量的细微调整，比如扩大医疗储蓄账户覆盖面，撤销一项医疗设备税。其他共和党人则在大声质疑，共和党只强调了医改法案的缺陷，却不说明采取什么样的措施来处理这些该党应去纠正的问题，这种一根筋的战术，不知还能维系多久。
Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, a physician and a prominent conservative voice on health care, is pushing what he calls the Empowering Patients First Act, which would repeal the health care law but keep its prohibition on exclusions for pre-existing conditions in private health insurance.
乔治亚州共和党议员汤姆·普赖斯(Tom Price)一直在推动被他称为《患者赋权至上法案》(Empowering Patients First Act)的提案，该法案将废除医改法案，但是会保留医改法案中禁止私人保险公司把投保前已存在的疾病排除在外的条款。普赖斯是一名医生，也是对医改法案持保守态度的重要意见人士。
The bill would allow for insurance to be sold across state lines, push small businesses to pool together to buy insurance for their employees, expand tax-free health savings accounts, cap malpractice lawsuits, and offer tax credits of $2,163 for individuals and $5,799 for families to buy health plans.
这项提案将允许跨州销售医疗保险，推动小企业联手出资为员工购买保险，扩大免税医疗储蓄账户覆盖面，设定医疗事故诉讼索赔上限，给购买医疗保险的个人和家庭分别提供2163美元（约合1.3万元人民币）和5799美元的抵税额。
The American Action Forum, a conservative advocacy group run by Douglas Holtz Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, analyzed the Price plan this month. The group concluded that it would lower insurance premiums by as much as 19 percent by 2023, while leaving the ranks of the uninsured about five percentage points higher than the Affordable Care Act would by then.
由国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)前主任格拉斯•霍尔茨-埃金(Douglas Holtz-Eakin)领导的保守派倡导团体、美国行动论坛(American Action Forum)于本月分析了普赖斯的提案。该团体得出结论说，到2023年，普赖斯的提案可降低高达19%的保费，与此同时，届时未投保群体的人数，将比《合理医疗费用法案》未覆盖的群体人数高出约5个百分点。
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2012 and a possible 2016 presidential hopeful, is preparing his own health insurance plan for release early next year.
威斯康星州众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)正在准备自己的医保提案，该提案将于明年初公布。瑞安是共和党在2012年提名的副总统候选人，他可能会在2016年成为总统候选人。
Mr. Ryan’s plan will build on one that he and Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, introduced in 2009, according to aides familiar with it. The proposal, called the Patients’ Choice Act, would have eliminated the tax break for employer-provided health care to finance a tax credit of about $5,700 for families and $2,300 for individuals. States would have been asked to create insurance marketplaces like the ones many have created under the Affordable Care Act.
据熟悉瑞安提案的助手透露，瑞安的提案以他和奥克拉荷马州共和党参议员汤姆·科波恩(Tom Coburn)于2009年推出的提案为基础。该提案名为《患者选择法案》(Patients’ Choice Act)，它去除了雇主提供的医保现有的免税额，用这些钱支付约5700美元的家庭抵税额和约2300美元的个人抵税额。各州将被要求设立保险交易所，它们和许多州已按照《合理医疗费用法案》建立的保险交易所相类似。
As with the Obama health care law, the Ryan proposal demanded that insurers meet minimum standards of coverage and be prevented from excluding the sick. But instead of mandating penalties for failing to buy insurance, the approach would have automatically enrolled people unless they opted out.
和奥巴马医改法案一样，瑞安的提案要求保险公司满足最低保障标准，并防止保险公司不接受患者投保。但该项提案不会授权惩处不购买保险的人，而是自动为民众注册投保，除非他们自己选择退出。
Mr. Price said on Thursday that he was “cautiously optimistic” that he, other lawmakers and House Republican leaders could meld the different approaches into one alternative health plan to take to voters — and possibly the House floor — in the 2014 election season.
普赖斯在周四表示，他对自己、其他议员和共和党领袖能够把几个不同的提案融为另一个可供选择的医改提案，在2014年竞选季提交给选民——也许还可以拿到众议院——有着“审慎的乐观”。
“It’s the minority’s responsibility to provide a contrast,” he said. “It’s important that we put forward an upbeat, positive proposal, so the American people know there is an alternative.”
他说，“提供一种对立面是少数党的分内之事。由我们提出一个乐观积极的提案是相当重要的，只有这样，美国人民才知道，还存在别的选项。”
Whether voices like Ms. Ayotte’s or Mr. Johnson’s will prevail is unclear, given the deep opposition among rank-and-file Republicans. Mr. Graham said that Republicans would probably get away with denouncing the Affordable Care Act through the midterm elections, but that by 2016 they would need to have a fully formed alternative.
鉴于共和党普通党员的强烈反对，阿约特或约翰逊的这类提案能否占据优势尚不明朗。格雷厄姆说，共和党人也许会在中期选举中痛斥《合理医疗费用法案》，并就此了事，不过，到2016年他们必须要拿出一套成熟的替代方案。
White House officials acknowledge that the administration needs to focus on making sure all those who enrolled in health plans actually have coverage on Jan. 1. HealthCare.gov received two million site visits on Monday, the official deadline for coverage starting Jan. 1, and the insurance call center took more than 250,000 calls, said Julie Bataille, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services. More than 129,000 people left emails on Monday after finding the website jammed with traffic, and activity remained brisk on Tuesday for those taking advantage of a 24-hour extension.
白宫官员承认，奥巴马政府需要重点确保参加了医保的人能在明年1月1日获得切实的保障。美国卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)女发言人朱莉‧巴塔耶(Julie Bataille)说，HealthCare.gov网站在周一的点击量达到了200万次，保险呼叫服务中心接到了超过25万次来电。周一，在发现网站因为流量过大陷入瘫痪后，有超过12.9万人留下了电子邮件，由于一些人想趁着24小时的延长期抓紧注册，周二的网上活动依然相当活跃。
“Millions of people visited the state and federal marketplaces this week to purchase private health plans,” said a White House spokeswoman, Tara McGuinness. “The final tallies are being rounded up, but we believe the deadline encouraged decision-making for hundreds of thousands of families who will have access to care in the new year.”
白宫女发言人塔拉·麦吉尼斯(Tara McGuinness)说，“本周，有数以百万计的民众登录州和联邦交易所的网站购买私人医疗保险。我们正在统计最后的数字，不过，我们相信，截止期限鼓励了数以十万计的家庭作出决定，明年，他们就能获得保障。”
State-run exchanges had a similar crush. Almost 26,000 people signed up in New York State on the last enrollment day. California enrolled 27,000, and Washington State 20,000. Connecticut beat its expectations with 6,700 new sign-ups.
州级网站的情况也类似。在注册的最后一天，纽约州有近2.6万人注册；加州有2.7万；华盛顿州有2万；康涅狄格州的新注册人数为6700，超过了预期。
Some of those rushing to enroll are bound to find problems in January as private insurers struggle to line up federal and state website enrollment with actual policies, a White House official said. And attitudes toward the law are not going to change overnight.
白宫一位官员说，一些匆忙抢着注册的人，肯定会在明年1月遇到麻烦，那时候私营保险公司要把联邦和各州网站的注册和实际保单对应起来会很困难。而对于这个法案的态度是不会在一夜之间就改观的。
But if Mr. Obama’s approval rating on health care is tepid, Congress’s is abysmal. Just 19 percent of Americans approve of the way congressional Republicans are handling health care. Still, a New York Times/CBS News poll this month showed that nearly two-thirds of Republicans wanted to have the Affordable Care Act repealed, and most Republican lawmakers are appealing to those constituents.
但是，如果说在医改问题上，奥巴马获得的支持率可算不温不火，那么国会获得的支持率就是糟糕透顶了。只有19%的美国人赞成国会共和党人对待医改的态度。不过，《纽约时报》和CBS新闻本月进行的民调显示，近三分之二的共和党人希望废除《合理医疗费用法案》，大多数共和党议员正在呼吁这些选民的支持。
“A few million people are buying a product that has features they don’t want, paying more for it than they should have to pay for it because they had to buy it through this government-mandated mechanism,” said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania. “I don’t think that changes anything fundamentally at all.”
“几百万人购买一个产品，这个产品的功能他们并不想要，而且付的钱也比他们应该付的多，就因为政府做了这样的强制规定，他们不能不买，”宾夕法尼亚州共和党参议员帕特里克·J·图米的(Patrick J. Toomey)说。“我认为，这并未从根本上改变任何事情。”
Asked what should be done with the millions of people getting health care through the law, Senator Dan Coats, Republican of Indiana, said, “Call the White House and ask them.”
数以百万计的人通过这项法案获得了医疗服务，当被问及这些人该怎么办时，印第安纳州共和党参议员丹·科茨(Dan Coats)说：“打电话到白宫去问他们吧。”