WASHINGTON — The Obama administration is preparing to unveil a legislative proposal for a far-reaching overhaul of the National Security Agency’s once-secret bulk phone records program in a way that — if approved by Congress — would end the aspect that has most alarmed privacy advocates since its existence was leaked last year, according to senior administration officials.
华盛顿——一些政府高级官员说，奥巴马政府正打算推出一项立法提案，对美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）大规模通话数据收集项目实施影响深远的整改，如果在国会被通过，它将终结该项目中让隐私保护倡导者极为担忧的那部分做法。这个曾经秘而不宣的项目于去年被曝光。
Under the proposal, they said, N.S.A. would end its systematic collection of data about Americans’ calling habits. The records would stay in the hands of phone companies, which would not be required to retain the data for any longer than they normally would. And the N.S.A. could obtain specific records only with permission from a judge, using a new kind of court order.
他们说，根据这一提案，NSA将结束系统性收集美国人通话习惯数据的做法。这些记录会由电话公司掌握，有关部门不会要求电话公司在正常的期限之外继续保存这些数据。此外，NSA只有在获得法官的允许之后，并且凭借一种新的法庭令，才能获得特定的通话记录。
In a speech in January, President Obama said he wanted to get the N.S.A. out of the business of collecting call records in bulk while preserving the program’s capabilities. He acknowledged, however, that there was no easy way to do so, and had instructed Justice Department and intelligence officials to come up with a plan by March 28 — Friday — when the current court order authorizing the program expires.
奥巴马总统在今年1月份的一次演讲中说，他想要让NSA停止大规模收集通话记录的行为，但同时仍旧保有这种能力。然而，他也承认，这不容易做到，并要求司法部和情报官员在3月28日，即周五之前拿出一个方案。目前能够授权该项目的法庭令将于当天到期。
As part of the proposal, the administration has decided to ask the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to renew the program as it currently exists for at least one more 90-day cycle, senior administration officials said. But under the plan the administration has developed and now advocates, the officials said, it would later undergo major changes.
政府的高级官员说，在提案中，奥巴马政府决定要求外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)延长这一项目，至少再延长一个90天的周期。不过，这些官员说，根据政府已经制定、目前支持的这份方案，该项目随后将经历一些大幅改动。
The new surveillance court orders envisioned by the administration would require phone companies to swiftly provide records in a technologically compatible data format, including making available, on a continuing basis, data about any new calls placed or received after the order is received, the officials said.
这些官员说，根据政府所展望的新的监视法庭令，电话公司需要迅速、不间断地，以技术上兼容的数据格式提供通话记录，包括接到命令后，打出和收到的任何新通话的数据。
They would also allow the government to seek related records for callers up to two calls, or “hops,” removed from the number that has come under suspicion, even if those callers are customers of other companies.
凭借新的法庭命令，政府还可以从电话公司获得距离存在嫌疑的号码两个“节点”的打电话者的相关记录，即使这些人是其他公司的客户。
The N.S.A. now retains the phone data for five years. But the administration considered and rejected imposing a mandate on phone companies that they hold onto their customers’ calling records for a period longer than the 18 months that federal regulations already generally require — a burden that the companies had resisted and that was seen as a major obstacle to keeping the data in their hands. A senior administration official said that intelligence agencies had concluded that the impact of that change would be small because older data is less important.
NSA目前把电话数据保留五年。但美国政府在经过考虑之后，拒绝要求电话公司将客户通话数据保存18个月以上。18个月是联邦规定的一般期限，一些公司曾经拒绝这么做，此前，这被视作将数据留在它们手中的主要障碍。一名高级政府官员说，情报机构认为，这个改变的影响有限，因为数据越旧，重要性越小。
The N.S.A. uses the once-secret call records program — sometimes known as the 215 program, after Section 215 of the Patriot Act — to analyze links between callers in an effort to identify hidden terrorist associates, if they exist. It was part of the secret surveillance program that President George W. Bush unilaterally put in place after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, outside of any legal framework or court oversight.
NSA利用这个曾经保密的通话记录收集项目——有时也被称作215项目，这是根据《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)第215条命名的——分析打电话者之间的关系，从而找到可能潜藏的恐怖分子同伙。这是2001年“9·11”恐怖袭击之后，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)单边设立的秘密监控项目的一部分，它被免于任何法律约束和法庭监督。
In 2006, as part of a broader Bush administration effort to put its programs on a firmer legal footing, the Justice Department persuaded the surveillance court to begin authorizing the program. It claimed that Section 215, which allows the F.B.I. to obtain court orders for business records deemed “relevant” to an investigation, could be interpreted as allowing the N.S.A. to collect domestic calling records in bulk.
2006年，在布什政府试图为这些项目找到更多法律依据的更大范围的行动中，司法部说服监视法庭开始授权该项目。司法部称，215条允许美国联邦调查局(FBI)获得法庭令，从而获得被认为与调查“有关”的商业记录，因此，215条可以被解读为，允许NSA大规模收集美国公民的通话记录。
Marc Rotenberg, the executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, called the administration’s proposal a “sensible outcome, given that the 215 program likely exceeded current legal authority and has not proved to be effective.” While he said that he would like to see more reforms to other surveillance authorities, he said the proposal addressed the major concerns with the bulk records program.
电子隐私信息中心(Electronic Privacy Information Center)的执行主任马克·卢腾伯格(Marc Rotenberg)称，“考虑到215项目超出了目前的法律所赋予的权力范围，且并非卓有成效，”该提案提供了“一条合理的出路”。他说，尽管他希望看到对其他监控机构实施更多改革，该提案已经着手应对了大规模电话记录项目引发的主要担忧。
Jameel Jaffer of the American Civil Liberties Union said: “We have many questions about the details, but we agree with the administration that the N.S.A.’s bulk collection of call records should end.” He added, “As we’ve argued since the program was disclosed, the government can track suspected terrorists without placing millions of people under permanent surveillance.”
美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)的贾米勒·贾弗(Jameel Jaffer)说：“我们对提案的细节还有很多疑问，但我们认同政府的观点，即NSA的大规模电话数据收集应该终止。”他接着说，“正如我们在项目曝光后所指出的那样，政府能够在不把成百上千万人置于长期监控下的情况里，追踪恐怖分子嫌疑人。”
The administration proposal will join a jumble of bills in Congress ranging from proposals that would authorize the current program with only minor adjustments, to proposals to end it.
这项提案将和国会一系列纷繁复杂的法案一起等待投票。其中有一些法案会继续授权当前的项目，只做一些小的调整，还有一些提案则要求终止该项目。
The administration’s proposal would also include a provision clarifying whether Section 215 of the Patriot Act, due to expire next year unless Congress reauthorizes it, may in the future be legitimately interpreted as allowing bulk phone data collection.
政府的提案中的一个条款还将说明，《爱国者法案》215条未来是否应当被解读为允许大规模通话数据的收集。该条款将于明年到期，除非国会重新授权。
The proposal would not, however, affect other forms of bulk collection under the same provision. The Central Intelligence Agency, for example, has obtained orders for bulk collection of records about international money transfers handled by companies like Western Union.
然而，提案将不会影响基于215条款的其他大规模信息收集项目。例如，中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)已经获得了大规模收集国际汇款记录的法庭令。经手这些国际汇款的包括西联汇款(Western Union)。
The existence of the N.S.A. program was disclosed and then declassified last year following leaks by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor. The disclosure set off a controversy that scrambled the usual partisan lines in Congress.
去年，在NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密之后，NSA的这个项目被曝光，随后被解密。此次曝光引发的争议打乱了国会通常状况下的党派界限。
The government has been unable to point to any thwarted terrorist attacks that would have been carried out if the program had not existed, but has argued that it is a useful tool.
美国政府一直无法说出该项目阻止了哪些恐怖袭击的发生，但辩称这是一个有用的工具。