BRUSSELS — President Obama started his day in Warsaw struggling to convince his friends in Central and Eastern Europe that the United States is being tough enough with Russia. He ended his day in Brussels, still struggling, but this time to persuade America’s core Western allies to stay tough with Russia.
布鲁塞尔——这一天，奥巴马总统的行程始于华沙，止于布鲁塞尔。在华沙，他竭力想让中欧和东欧的友人相信，美国对俄罗斯足够强硬；在布鲁塞尔，他还是要费尽力气，而这次是为了说服美国在西方的核心盟友，继续对俄罗斯保持强硬。
The dizzying contrasts underscored the challenges Mr. Obama faces navigating the complicated waters of European politics as he tries to forge a unified stance against Russian aggression in Ukraine. On the defensive at home for a prisoner swap, he finds himself pressed overseas by some allies unsatisfied with his reassurances of resolve and others unimpressed with his arguments for action.
这种令人困惑的对比突显了奥巴马面临的挑战：在针对俄罗斯进犯乌克兰的动作努力促成统一立场时，他要如何驾驭欧洲政治的复杂局面？在国内，他因囚徒交换一事而处于守势，到了海外，他仍然承受着压力，一些盟友不满意他表决心的承诺，另一些盟友对他采取行动的主张不以为意。
He arrived here on Wednesday to have dinner with the leaders of the Group of 7 powers who, at his urging, had excluded President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as punishment for his annexation of Crimea. But Mr. Obama’s counterparts from Britain, France and Germany all ended up scheduling one-on-one meetings with Mr. Putin later on. President François Hollande of France even arranged to have dinner with Mr. Putin on Thursday just after having a separate dinner with Mr. Obama.
周三，奥巴马抵达布鲁塞尔，与七国集团的领导人共进晚餐。在他的敦促下，峰会将俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)排除在外，以示对其吞并克里米亚的惩罚。不过，英国、法国与德国的领导人最后都定下了晚些时候与普京进行一对一会晤的行程。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)甚至还安排了周四与普京共进晚餐，而且就紧跟在他与奥巴马的晚餐之后。
Not only were they unwilling to snub the Russian leader entirely, as Mr. Obama sought, they were also reluctant to go along with other efforts to isolate the Kremlin. Most notably, the French government repeated that it would go ahead with the $1.6 billion sale of powerful warships to Moscow along with plans to train 400 Russian sailors in France this month. And other European leaders were cautious about setting further red lines threatening additional sanctions against Russia.
他们不仅不愿像奥巴马希望的那样完全冷落普京，而且还不情愿附和孤立克里姆林宫的其他努力。最引人注目的是，法国政府重申，将继续推进一宗价值16亿美元（约合100亿元人民币）的交易，向俄罗斯出售强大的军舰，也将继续推进本月在法国训练400名俄罗斯海军水兵的计划。而对于进一步划定红线，威胁对俄采取新的制裁，其他欧洲领导人则出言谨慎。
Mr. Obama’s aides repeated their opposition to the French sale on Wednesday but tried to play down the disparate approaches of the leaders.
奥巴马的幕僚周三重申了反对法国军售的立场，不过同时也试图淡化各国领导人之间的行为方式差异。
“The question is not whether they’re meeting,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser. “The question is what people are saying in those meetings. And our belief is that there needs to be a unified message.”
“问题不在于他们是否要会面，”奥巴马的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“问题在于在这些会面中要说什么。而我们相信，需要发出统一的信号。”
Others expressed concern. Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister who saw Mr. Obama in Warsaw and then traveled to Kiev later in the day, said Moscow was playing the allies against one another.
还有国家对此表示关切。瑞典外交大臣卡尔·比尔特(Carl Bildt)在华沙会见了奥巴马，并在当天晚些时候前往基辅。他表示，莫斯科在玩离间盟友的花招。
“I really hope the G-7 dinner tonight has produced the cohesion necessary,” he said. “It’s only by sticking together that we can influence events. Russia is very consciously cultivating and using different bilateral links.”
“我衷心希望七国集团今天的晚餐催生出必要的凝聚力，”他说。“只有团结在一起，我们才能影响事态走向。俄罗斯在处心积虑地培养并利用各种双边联系。”
The leaders used their dinner on Wednesday to discuss what might set off another, more expansive, round of sanctions. Some Europeans want to keep new sanctions in their pocket, as they put it, to impose only if Russia escalates the situation, while others say Moscow should avoid new penalties only if it proactively works to stop pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine.
七国领导人利用周三的晚餐讨论了，如要触发新一轮更为广泛的制裁，可能需要什么样的先决条件。有些欧洲国家希望，把新制裁——用它们的话说——“放在口袋里”，仅当俄罗斯让局势进一步升级时才施加制裁；另一些国家则认为，只有莫斯科积极制止乌克兰的亲俄分裂分子，才能避免新的惩罚措施。
After a long discussion, the leaders left the question largely unresolved. In a joint statement, they again condemned Russia’s actions and called on the country to stop the flow of arms and fighters across its borders. But they did not specify what might prompt them to broaden their sanctions to target entire sectors of the Russian economy. Instead, they threatened “to impose further costs on Russia should events so require,” without elaboration.
然而经过长时间的讨论，七国领导人基本没有解决这一问题。在联合声明中，他们再次谴责俄罗斯的举动，呼吁该国切断武装人员与武器跨越边境的流动。然而，他们并未明确指出，怎样的情形才会促使他们将制裁扩大到俄罗斯经济的方方面面，而仅仅是威胁，“一旦有必要，将迫使俄罗斯进一步付出代价”，但并未加以详述。
Unlike some other Western European leaders, Chancellor Angela Merkel sided with the tougher line in a speech to the German Parliament before flying to Brussels. Mr. Putin “has to make his influence felt” with pro-Russian separatists who have attacked and seized government offices in eastern Ukraine and do more to prevent weapons flowing into Ukraine across porous Russian borders, she said.
与其他一些西欧领导人不同，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)飞赴布鲁塞尔之前对该国议会发表演讲，站到了强硬立场这边。她在讲话中表示，对于在乌克兰东部攻击并占领政府办公室的亲俄分裂分子，普京“必须发挥自身的影响”，必须采取进一步行动，阻止武器从漏洞百出的俄乌边境流入乌克兰。
“If all this does not stop,” she told Parliament, “then we will not shy away from imposing new sanctions.”
“假如这些事情不停止，我们就会毫不客气地施加新的制裁，”默克尔对议员们说。
But the French government repeated its refusal to cancel the warship sale, saying it would be illegal to break a contract under international law. French officials view the economic imperative outweighing the geopolitical costs.
然而，法国政府重申了拒绝取消军售的立场，声称违约属于违反国际法的行为。在法国官员看来，经济上的当务之急高于地缘政治代价。
Even within his team, there are cross pressures about how to respond, most recently over sending more troops to bolster the security of Poland and other NATO allies in the east.
即使是奥巴马团队内部，对于该如何做出应对，也存在矛盾观点。最新的例子是，应否派遣更多的部队，巩固波兰等东欧北约盟国的安全。
Mr. Obama sided with aides who advised against a more robust military presence in the east in the short term for fear that it would be unnecessarily provocative. But he did promise to spend up to $1 billion if approved by Congress to increase joint exercises, expand military training and pre-position equipment. And in a speech in Castle Square in Warsaw on Wednesday before flying here, he had strong words of support.
有幕僚反对短期内增强在东欧的军事存在，理由是担忧造成不必要的挑衅。奥巴马赞同这一立场。不过，他也的确承诺，在获得国会批准的前提下，花费最高10亿美元来增加联合军演、加强军事训练，以及扩充预先部署的武器装备。周三，在飞抵布鲁塞尔之前，奥巴马在华沙城堡广场发表演讲，以强烈的措辞表达了支持。
“Poland will never stand alone,” Mr. Obama declared. “Estonia will never stand alone. Latvia will never stand alone. Lithuania will never stand alone. Romania will never stand alone.”
“波兰绝不会孤立无援，”奥巴马宣称。“爱沙尼亚绝不会孤立无援，拉脱维亚绝不会孤立无援，立陶宛绝不会孤立无援，罗马尼亚绝不会孤立无援。”
Mr. Obama was addressing a ceremony for the 25th anniversary of the elections that led to the eventual collapse of Communist rule in Poland, and he linked those stirring events to the current upheaval in Ukraine. “The Ukrainians of today are the heirs of Solidarity — men and women like you who dared to challenge a bankrupt regime,” Mr. Obama said.
奥巴马是在一个庆祝仪式上发表此番演讲的，25周年前的这一天举行的选举，最终导致了共产党统治在波兰倒台。奥巴马把当时那些激动人心的事件与乌克兰目前的反抗活动联系在了一起。他说，“今天的乌克兰人是团结工会的继承者——他们像你们一样敢于挑战破产的政权。”
His message drew mixed reactions. “The U.S. president did not miss the opportunity to say the right things in the right time and place,” said Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz, a former Polish prime minister.
他的讯息引发了褒贬不一的反应。“美国总统没有错过在正确的时间、正确的地点，说出正确的话的机会，”波兰前总理沃齐米日·齐莫舍维奇(Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz)说。
But Witold Waszczykowski, a senior member of Poland’s chief opposition party, Law and Justice, said that $1 billion for a region of 10 allies is not much. “In the past 25 years, we heard a lot of nice speeches, also from other American presidents,” he said. “Now it’s time to turn words into deeds. Because it’s us who are neighbors with the greatest aggressor.”
可是，波兰主要反对党法律与正义党的高层维托尔德·瓦什奇科夫斯基(Witold Waszczykowski)表示，对于这个有10个盟国的地区，10亿美元并不是个大数目。“过去25里，我们听过很多漂亮话，也从其他美国总统那里听到过，”他说。“现在是时候付诸行动了。因为与最大的侵略者为邻的可是我们。”