They say failure can be a good teacher, but, so far, the Obama administration is opting out of the course. The post-midterm period has been one of the most bizarre of the Obama presidency. President Obama has racked up some impressive foreign-policy accomplishments, but, domestically and politically, things are off the rails.
常言道，失败乃良师，不过迄今为止，奥巴马政府的选择是退修这门课。中期选举后的这段时间已成为奥巴马任期里最令人匪夷所思的一段。总统在外交政策方面取得了一些令人敬佩的成就，但在国内政策和政治问题上，可以说是一塌糊涂。
Usually presidents use midterm defeats as a chance to rethink and refocus. That’s what Obama did four years ago. Voters like to feel the president is listening to them.
以前的总统通常会把中期选举失利当做反思与调整的机会。奥巴马四年前也正是这样做的。选民喜欢有总统在倾听他们心声的感觉。
But Obama’s done no public rethinking. In his post-election news conference, the president tried to reframe the defeat by saying the turnout was low, as if it was the Republicans’ fault that the Democrats could only mobilize their core base. Throughout that conference, the president seemed to detach himself from his own party, as if the Democrats who lost their jobs because of him were a bunch of far-off victims of some ethereal malaise.
但这次，奥巴马一直没做公开的反思。在中期选举后他的新闻发布会上，总统试图用投票率低来解释选举失利，就好像是说，民主党只调动了自己的核心选民是共和党的错。整个发布会上，总统似乎把自己摆在自己政党之外，好像那些因为他而丢掉职位的民主党人，是一堆渺茫问题的一群遥远的受害者。
Usually presidents at the end of their terms get less partisan, not more. But with his implied veto threat of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, President Obama seems intent on showing that Democrats, too, can put partisanship above science. Keystone XL has been studied to the point of exhaustion, and the evidence overwhelmingly suggests that it’s a modest-but-good idea. The latest State Department study found that it would not significantly worsen the environment. The oil’s going to come out anyway, and it’s greener to transport it by pipeline than by train. The economic impact isn’t huge, but at least there’d be a $5.3 billion infrastructure project.
通常，总统在接近任期结束时的党派倾向会更少，而不是更多。但奥巴马威胁对Keystone XL输油管道使用否决权的暗示，似乎意在表明，民主党人也可以把党派政治置于科学之上。对Keystone XL输油管道的研究已经到了穷尽的地步，而证据确凿地表明，它是一个规模不大且不错的主意。国务院的最新研究发现，它不会明显污染环境。油总是要采出来的，用管道运输也比火车运输更环保。其经济影响不是很大，但至少也是个53亿美元的基础设施项目。
Usually presidents with a new Congressional majority try to figure out if there is anything that the two branches can do together. The governing Republicans have a strong incentive to pass legislation. The obvious thing is to start out with the easiest things, if only to show that Washington can function on some elemental level.
通常，总统与国会中的新多数派会琢磨琢磨这两个分支有什么可以一起做的事情。在国会占多数的共和党人有通过立法的强烈动机。可行的办法是从简单的事情做起，就算只是为了表明，华盛顿在某种基本层次上仍能发挥功能。
But the White House has not privately engaged with Congress on the legislative areas where there could be agreement. Instead, the president has been superaggressive on the one topic sure to blow everything up: the executive order to rewrite the nation’s immigration laws.
但是，白宫并没有在可能达成协议的立法领域与国会进行私下协商。相反，总统在一个肯定会让所有事情泡汤的问题上采取异常好斗的做法：用行政命令改写国家的移民法。
The president was in no rush to issue this order through 2014, when it might have been politically risky. He questioned whether he had the constitutional authority to do this through most of his first term, when he said that an executive order of this sort would probably be illegal.
在整个2014年间，当这样做可能有政治风险时，总统都不急于签发行政命令。在他第一个任期的大部分时间里，他对宪法是否赋予他这样做的权力有疑问，那时他说过，这类行政命令很可能是非法的。
But now the president is in a rush and is convinced he has authority. I sympathize with what Obama is trying to do substantively, but the process of how it’s being done is ruinous.
但如今，总统变得迫不及待，认为他有权这样做。我同情奥巴马试图做的事情的实质，但这样做的过程是毁灭性的。
Republicans would rightly take it as a calculated insult and yet more political ineptitude. Everybody would go into warfare mode. We’ll get two more years of dysfunction that will further arouse public disgust and antigovernment fervor (making a Republican presidency more likely).
共和党人会理所当然地将其视为一种蓄意侮辱，也将其视为更多政治无能的表现。所有的人都会进入作战状态。我们将再忍受两年的功能失调，这将进一步激发公众的厌恶和反政府情绪（使共和党更有可能赢得总统大选）。
This move would also make it much less likely that we’ll have immigration reform anytime soon. White House officials are often misinformed on what Republicans are privately discussing, so they don’t understand that many in the Republican Party are trying to find a way to get immigration reform out of the way. This executive order would destroy their efforts.
这种做法也让我们能很快改革移民法的可能性变得更小。白宫官员往往不了解共和党人私下的讨论，所以他们不明白，共和党内有许多人正在努力寻找一种解决移民法改革问题的出路。颁布行政命令将破坏他们的努力。
The move would further destabilize the legitimacy of government. Redefining the legal status of five million or six million human beings is a big deal. This is the sort of change we have a legislative process for. To do something this seismic with the stroke of one man’s pen is dangerous.
行政命令的做法将进一步动摇政府的合法性。重新定义500万或600万人的法律身份是一件非常大的事。这是那种我们要用一个立法程序来做的改革。用一个人的笔来做这种影响深远的事情是危险的。
Instead of a nation of laws, we could slowly devolve into a nation of diktats, with each president relying on and revoking different measures on the basis of unilateral power — creating unstable swings from one presidency to the next. If President Obama enacts this order on the transparently flimsy basis of “prosecutorial discretion,” he’s inviting future presidents to use similarly flimsy criteria. Talk about defining constitutional deviancy down.
法治国家不会这样做，我们会慢慢退化为一个专制的国家，每个总统以单方权力为基础，启用或取消不同的措施，制造从一任总统到下一任总统的不稳定摆动。如果奥巴马以“检方自由裁量权”这种显而易见的薄弱理由为基础，颁布这项命令，他是在招引未来的总统使用同样站不住脚的原则。这就叫给偏离宪法行为下定义。
I’m not sure why the Obama administration has been behaving so strangely since the midterms. Maybe various people in the White House are angry in defeat and want to show that they can be as obstructionist as anyone. Maybe, in moments of stress, they are only really sensitive to criticism from the left flank. Maybe it’s Gruberism: the belief that everybody else is slightly dumber and less well-motivated than oneself and, therefore, politics is more about manipulation than conversation.
我不明白奥巴马政府自中期选举以来为什么表现得如此奇怪。也许白宫中有些人对失败感到愤怒，想证明他们和别人一样也能碍事。也许，在压力之下，他们只对来自左派的批评真正敏感。也许这是格鲁伯主义(Gruberism)：认为别人都比自己笨一点，都不如自己有动力，因此，搞政治更多地是如何操控，而不是对话。