WASHINGTON — President Obama on Monday said that his debate with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was a distraction but would not be “permanently destructive” to the relationship between the two countries, even as Mr. Obama outlined a sharply different vision of how to confront the dangers of a nuclear-armed Iran.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周一表示，他与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)之间的争论会干扰两国之间的关系，但不会造成“永久性破坏”。不过，对于如何应对伊朗核武器的威胁，奥巴马却提出了与内塔尼亚胡迥然不同的看法。
In an interview on the eve of Mr. Netanyahu’s much-anticipated and hotly disputed address to Congress, Mr. Obama acknowledged that the two leaders had a “substantial disagreement” over Iran and defended his efforts to negotiate a diplomatic resolution. Any deal he would agree to, he said, would require Iran to freeze its nuclear program at least a decade.
内塔尼亚胡即将在美国国会发表的演讲备受期待，也引发了激烈争议。演讲前夕，奥巴马在接受采访时承认两位领导人在伊朗问题上存在“严重分歧”，并为自己的谈判努力进行了辩护。奥巴马希望通过谈判在外交层面上达成解决方案。他表示，若要自己接受任何协议，都须要求伊朗将其核计划冻结至少十年。
”This is not a personal issue,” Mr. Obama told the Reuters news agency. “I think that it is important for every country in its relationship with the United States to recognize that the U.S. has a process of making policy.”
“这不是私人问题，”奥巴马对路透社(Reuters)表示。“我认为，对与美国建立了关系的所有国家来说，重要的是要意识到，美国有一个政策制定的过程。”
Having said that, he needled Mr. Netanyahu for making unfounded assertions about the dangers of a preliminary agreement struck with Iran that paved the way for the current talks.
尽管做出了如上表述，他还是指责内塔尼亚胡有关与伊朗达成的初步协议会造成诸多危害的论断毫无根据。该协议为当前的谈判铺平了道路。
”Netanyahu made all sorts of claims — this was going to be a terrible deal, this was going to result in Iran getting $50 billion worth of relief, Iran would not abide by the agreement,” Mr. Obama said. “None of that has come true.”
“内塔尼亚胡有各种论断，说这会是一项糟糕的协议，会导致伊朗享受到价值500亿美元（约合3100亿元人民币）的制裁减免，还说伊朗不会遵守协议，”奥巴马说。“这些论断无一应验。”
The president’s interview came several hours after Mr. Netanyahu opened his high-profile visit to the American capital by playing down any personal dispute with Mr. Obama, but he said that he had a “moral obligation” to warn against the dangers of an American-brokered nuclear deal with Iran.
奥巴马是在内塔尼亚胡开启高调的华盛顿之旅几个小时后接受采访的。访问伊始，内塔尼亚胡淡化了与奥巴马之间的私人恩怨，但表示自己“在道义上有责任”警告大家注意经美国促成的伊朗核问题协议的危害。
Mr. Netanyahu, previewing his address to Congress on Tuesday, said at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee that he was grateful to Mr. Obama and the United States for their support over the years and never meant to inject partisan politics into the relationship.
在美国以色列公共事务委员会(American Israel Public Affairs Committee)的年会上，内塔尼亚胡预演了将于周二在国会发表的演讲。他声称感谢奥巴马和美国多年来的支持，并表示从未打算在两国关系中注入党派政治色彩。
He characterized the disagreement over Iran to a fight within a family that would ultimately be overcome.
他将围绕伊朗问题的分歧，定性为终将被克服的家庭内部争斗。
“My speech is not intended to show any disrespect to President Obama or the esteemed office that he holds,” Mr. Netanyahu told the estimated 16,000 people gathered here. “I have great respect for both.”
“我的演讲，不是为了表现对奥巴马总统本人或他的尊贵职位的不敬，”内塔尼亚胡对聚集在那里的参会者说。“我对两者都非常敬重。”据估计，与会者达1.6万人。
He added: “The last thing anyone who cares about Israel, the last thing that I would want, is for Israel to become a partisan issue, and I regret that some people have misperceived my visit here this week as doing that. Israel has always been a bipartisan issue. Israel should always remain a bipartisan issue.”
他接着说：“所有关心以色列的人最不希望看到的，也是我最不希望看到的，是以色列成为一个带有党派色彩的话题。对于一些人误以为我本周到访就是要这么做，我表示遗憾。以色列一直是一个两党高度一致的话题，也应该一直是这样的一个话题。”
But Mr. Netanyahu said he would not remain silent over what he saw as the perils of a negotiated agreement with Iran that does not adequately cripple its nuclear program. Displaying a map showing Iranian ties to terrorism on multiple continents, Mr. Netanyahu said Tehran posed an existential threat to Israel.
不过，内塔尼亚胡表示，他不会对自己认定的协议的危害性保持沉默。他认为，通过谈判达成的该协议无法充分削弱伊朗的核计划。内塔尼亚胡展示了一幅地图，上面显示伊朗与多个大陆上的恐怖主义之间有联系。他说，伊朗对以色列的生存构成了威胁。
“This is what Iran is doing now without nuclear weapons,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “Imagine what Iran would do with nuclear weapons.”
“这是没有核武器的伊朗正在做的事情，”内塔尼亚胡说。“想象一下伊朗有了核武器能干出什么。”
Responding to critics of his decision to come to Washington to address Congress shortly before Israeli elections, Mr. Netanyahu said he had no choice because of a late-March deadline for American-led talks with Iran.
有声音对他在以色列大选即将到来之前来到华盛顿对美国国会发表演讲的决定提出批评。对此，内塔尼亚胡回应，他别无选择，因为3月末是美国主导的伊朗核问题谈判的最后期限。
“I have a moral obligation to speak up in the face of these dangers while there is still time to avert them,” he said. “For 2,000 years, my people, the Jewish people, were stateless, defenseless, voiceless.” He added: “Today we are no longer silent. Today we have a voice. And tomorrow, as prime minister of the one and only Jewish state, I plan to use that voice.”
“我有一种道义上的责任，在面临这些危险时大胆说出，而现在加以避免还为时不晚，”他说。“两千年来，我的同胞，我们犹太人，没有国家、无以防御，沉默不语。”他还表示：“如今我们不再沉默。我们发出了声音。而明天，作为唯一的犹太国家的总理，我准备用上这种声音。”
Mr. Netanyahu’s address came shortly after a top adviser to Mr. Obama reassured the same audience that the United States would never allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon, even as she warned that Israeli-American ties should not be politicized.
就在内塔尼亚胡发表此番演讲前不久，奥巴马的一名高级幕僚刚向同样的听众保证，美国绝不允许伊朗拥有核武器。不过，此人也警告，以色列与美国的关系不应该被政治化。
Appearing at a fraught moment in the relationship between the two allies, Samantha Power, the president’s ambassador to the United Nations, rebutted criticism from Mr. Netanyahu even before he delivered it Monday.
在两大盟友的关系陷入紧张之际，美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)在内塔尼亚胡于周一发表此番演讲前，抢先现身驳斥了他的批评。
“The United States of America will not allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon,” Ms. Power told the audience. “Period.”
“美利坚众合国不会允许伊朗拥有核武器，”鲍尔告诉听众。“就是这样。”
Whatever the tensions between the leaders of the two countries, Ms. Power reminded the audience that the United States under Mr. Obama had invested more than $20 billion in Israel’s security and asserted that no one should doubt his commitment amid negotiations with Tehran.
无论两国领导人之间的关系有多紧张，鲍尔提醒观众，在奥巴马治下，美国已经为以色列的安全问题投入逾200亿美元。她强调，在与德黑兰方面进行谈判期间，决不应该质疑奥巴马做出的承诺。
“Talks, no talks, agreement, no agreement, the United States will take whatever steps are necessary to protect our national security and that of our closest allies,” she told Israel supporters gathered in the cavernous hall of the Walter E. Washington Convention Center.
她告诉聚集在沃尔特·E·华盛顿会议中心宏大会场的以色列的支持者，“无论是否谈判，能否达成协议，美国都会采取一切必要手段来保护我们及亲密盟友的国家安全。”
“We believe diplomacy is the preferred route to secure our shared aim. But if diplomacy fails, we know the stakes of a nuclear-armed Iran as well as everyone here. We will not let it happen. There will never be a sunset on America’s commitment to Israel’s security. Never.”
“我们相信外交努力是达成我们共同目标的最佳途径。但如果外交努力失败，我们和在场的每一个人都知道伊朗拥有核武器的利害关系。我们不会让这种事情发生。美国决不会摈弃保护以色列安全的承诺。永远不会。”