WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama on Tuesday angrily denounced Donald Trump for his rhetoric in the aftermath of the shooting massacre in Orlando, Florida, saying the presumptive Republican presidential nominee was peddling a “dangerous” mind-set that recalls the darkest periods in American history.
华盛顿——本周二，美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)愤怒地谴责了共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)关于佛罗里达州奥兰多大规模枪击案的言论，称他兜售“危险”心态，令人想起美国历史上最黑暗的时期。
“We hear language that singles out immigrants and suggests entire religious communities are complicit in violence,” Obama said at the Treasury Department. His statement came after a meeting with his national security team on the status of the U.S. effort against the Islamic State, which the president said had been dominated by discussion of the Orlando rampage.
“我们听到一些针对移民的言论，暗示整个宗教界串通一气从事暴力行为，”奥巴马在财政部说。他是在和国家安全团队开完会后发表这番讲话的。会议的主题是美国对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的打击。总统表示，奥兰多事件的讨论占据了本次会议的中心。
“Where does this stop?” the president said of Trump’s approach, noting that he had proposed a ban on admitting Muslims into the United States, and that the Orlando assailant, like perpetrators of previous domestic terrorist attacks in San Bernardino, California, and Fort Hood, Texas, was an American citizen.
“什么时候才是个头啊？”奥巴马提到特朗普的办法时说。他指出，特朗普提议禁止穆斯林进入美国境内，而奥兰多事件就像之前在加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺和德克萨斯州胡德堡发生的境内恐怖袭击一样，凶手都是美国公民。
“Are we going to start treating all Muslim-Americans differently? Are we going to start subjecting them to special surveillance? Are we going to start discriminating against them because of their faith?” Obama said, his voice rising during his most direct condemnation yet of Trump. “Do Republican officials actually agree with this?”
“我们要开始区别对待所有的美国穆斯林吗？我们打算开始对他们进行特殊监控吗？我们打算开始由于他们的信仰而歧视他们吗？”奥巴马的音量越来越高。“共和党官员真的同意这样做吗？”这是他至今为止对特朗普最直白的批评。
The president, who has steadfastly refused to use the term “radical Islam” to describe the Islamic State, which he calls ISIL, also bitterly rejected criticism from Trump and other Republicans about failing to use the phrase.
奥巴马以缩写ISIL称呼伊斯兰国。他一直坚决拒绝用“激进伊斯兰”来对其进行描述。特朗普和其他一些共和党人因此批评他，遭到了他的尖锐反驳。
“If there’s anyone out there who thinks we’re confused about who our enemies are, that would come as a surprise to the thousands of terrorists who we’ve taken off the battlefield,” Obama said. “There’s no magic to the phrase ‘radical Islam’; it’s a political talking point, it’s not a strategy.”
“我们在战场上消灭了成千上万的恐怖分子。如果还有人觉得我们不明白究竟谁是我们的敌人，就连那些恐怖分子也会感觉奇怪，”奥巴马说。“‘激进伊斯兰’这个说法没有什么奇效；它是一个政治话题，不是一项策略。”
The president said he would not use the wording because he was unwilling to give the Islamic State the victory of accepting their vision of themselves as leaders of a holy war between Islam and the West.
总统说他之所以不会使用这一措辞，是因为伊斯兰国自认为是伊斯兰教和西方之间圣战的领导人，而他不愿意让他们感觉得到了承认。
“If we fall into the trap of painting all Muslims with a broad brush and imply that we are at war with an entire religion, then we are doing the terrorists’ work for them,” Obama said.
“如果我们掉进陷阱，过于简单地把所有穆斯林划归成一类，暗示我们是在和整个伊斯兰教开战，那么我们就是在帮恐怖分子的忙，”奥巴马说。
Obama is scheduled to travel to Orlando on Thursday to visit with the surviving victims and the families of those killed in the rampage on Sunday morning.
奥巴马定于本周四前往奥兰多，看望周日凌晨枪击案的幸存者和遇难者家属。
On Tuesday, he called on Congress to enact gun restrictions that they have so far resisted, including the resurrection of a ban on assault weapons and a measure that would bar the ability to purchase guns to those on no-fly lists because of suspected terrorist ties.
周二，他呼吁国会通过他们一直抗拒的枪械限制措施，包括恢复对进攻性武器的禁令，以及一项禁止向因为涉嫌勾结恐怖分子而上了禁飞名单的人出售枪支的提案。
“Enough talking about being tough on terrorism,” Obama said. “Actually be tough on terrorism and stop making it as easy as possible for terrorists to buy assault weapons.”
“严厉打击恐怖主义的话已经说得够多了，”奥巴马说。“要真正行动起来，不再让恐怖分子那么轻易就买到攻击性武器。”