HONOLULU — President Barack Obama expressed confidence that, if he had run for a third term, he would have defeated Donald Trump, according to an interview released Monday with David Axelrod, his friend and former adviser.
檀香山——贝拉克·奥巴马(President Barack)总统在接受其友人兼前顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)采访时表达了这样一种信心：若能三度参选，他可以击败唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。该采访于周一被公之于众。
“I’m confident that if I — if I had run again and articulated it, I think I could’ve mobilized a majority of the American people to rally behind it,” Obama said on Axelrod’s podcast, “The Axe Files,” referring to his message of inclusion and helping middle-class Americans.
“如果再度竞选并阐明原因，我相信大多数美国人民都会被我动员起来，团结在周围——我对此很有信心，”奥巴马在阿克塞尔罗德的播客节目《阿克塞档案》(The Axe Files)上提及自己关于包容以及帮助美国中产阶级的主张时表示。
“I know that in conversations that I’ve had with people around the country, even some people who disagreed with me, they would say the vision, the direction that you point towards is the right one,” he said.
“我知道，在和全国各地民众的交流中，即便是与我意见相左的人也会说，你谈及的愿景和指出的方向是没错的，”他说。
Several hours after the interview was posted, Trump responded on Twitter. “President Obama said that he thinks he would have won against me,” Trump said. “He should say that but I say NO WAY! — jobs leaving, ISIS, OCare, etc.”
采访被公之于众几个小时后，特朗普在Twitter上作了回应。“奥巴马总统认为他本可以赢我，”特朗普说。“他肯定要那样说，但我要说的是，没门！——工作岗位流失、伊斯兰国、奥巴马医改等等。”
The discussion in the interview was pure political conjecture, because the 22nd Amendment to the Constitution limits a president to two terms.
采访中的这种讨论完全是政治猜想，因为根据宪法第二十二修正案的规定，总统的任期不能超过两届。
Obama praised the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, saying that she performed well under difficult circumstances and that there “was a double standard with her.”
奥巴马赞扬了民主党候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，说她在困境中表现出色，还说“她面对着双重标准”。
“For whatever reason, there’s been a long-standing difficulty in her relationship with the press that meant her flaws were wildly amplified,” he said.
“无论是什么原因，她与媒体的关系长期不佳，这意味着她身上的瑕疵会被严重放大，”他说。
But Obama also said she campaigned too cautiously.
但奥巴马也表示，她在竞选活动中太过保守。
“If you think you’re winning, then you have a tendency, just like in sports, maybe to play it safer,” Obama said.
“如果你认为自己会赢，那你就会有一种倾向，像在体育赛场上一样，或许会趋于保守，”奥巴马说。
He added: “And the economy has been improving. There is a sense, obviously, that some communities have been left behind from the recovery and people feeling anxious about that.”
他还表示：“此外，经济状况正不断得到改善。但显然有这样一种感觉：某些群体没能跟上复苏的步伐，人们对此感到焦虑。”
It was “nonsense,” Obama said, that Democrats had abandoned white working-class Americans, a group that rallied behind Trump.
有观点认为，民主党抛弃了美国白人工人阶层，也就是团结在特朗普身边的一个群体，奥巴马说这完全是“胡言乱语”。
The problem, Obama said, was that Democratic politicians were not communicating to these people “that we understand why they’re frustrated.”
奥巴马表示，问题在于民主党政治人物没和这些人交流，告诉他们“我们明白你们为何感到沮丧。”