PHILADELPHIA — President Barack Obama swept into a boisterous Democratic convention on Wednesday night and delivered a stirring valedictory address that championed optimism in America and passed a symbolic political baton to Hillary Clinton as she struggles to unite their party and win over skeptical and hostile voters.
费城——贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统周三晚上走进欢腾的民主党大会，用一篇激动人心的告别演讲捍卫了美国的乐观主义，将一个象征性的政治接力棒交给希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，而她此刻正奋力团结他们的政党，以争取心存怀疑和敌意的选民的支持。
Taking the stage to rapturous roars of “We love you” and “Yes we can,” Obama praised the “contest of ideas” between Republicans and Democrats but argued that the party now led by Donald Trump had no “serious solutions to pressing problems” but only resentments and even hate.
在“我们爱你”和“是的，我们可以”的欢呼声中，奥巴马走上台，称赞了共和党和民主党之间的“理念之争”，但他提出，如今由唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)领导的那个政党对“迫在眉睫的问题”没有正经的解决方案，只有哀怨甚至仇恨。
“While this nation has been tested by war and been tested by recession and all manner of challenges, I stand before you again tonight — after almost two terms as your president — to tell you that I’m more optimistic about the future of America than ever before,” Obama said.
“这个国家经受过战争的考验、经济衰退的考验，面对过各种各样的挑战，今晚——在将近两届总统任期之后——我再度站在你们面前，告诉你们，我对美国的未来，前所未有地乐观，”奥巴马说。
Obama also used his own remarks to try to drive a wedge between Trump’s campaign and Republican voters. “It wasn’t particularly Republican and it sure wasn’t conservative,” he said of last week’s Republican convention. “There were no serious solutions to pressing problems. Just the fanning of resentments and blame and hate and anger.”
奥巴马还试图用自己的话语在特朗普的竞选和共和党选民之间制造一种隔阂。上周的共和党大会“不太像共和党，肯定也不像保守派，”他说。“对迫在眉睫的问题没有给出正经的解决方案。只是一味煽动哀怨、指责、仇恨和怒火。”
Wednesday signaled a transition for the party. Emotion suffused the convention hall: Some delegates, in tears, were not ready to say goodbye to Obama yet, and others — particularly some liberals and young Democrats — were not ready to accept Clinton as their new leader. As she prepares to give her nomination acceptance speech on Thursday night, the left wing of the party still remains divided, while many Republicans appear ready to fall in line behind Trump.
周三标志着民主党的一次转变。会场满溢着各种情绪：一些泪流满面的代表没有准备好与奥巴马道别，还有一些——尤其是一些自由派的年轻民主党人——还没准备好接受克林顿这个新领袖。在她准备周四晚的接受提名演讲的同时，这个政党的左翼始终存在分歧，而许多共和党人似乎准备好站在特朗普的一边。
Obama’s speech, a passionate defense of Clinton’s vision and character, did not itself herald the start of new political era. Clinton has wrapped herself in the cloth of the Obama presidency rather than break with him and offer a new path, like Vice President George H.W. Bush’s promise of “a kinder, gentler nation” in 1988 after the Reagan years.
奥巴马的演讲对克林顿的愿景与性格做出了激烈的辩护，但它本身并未开启一个新的政治时代。克林顿给自己包裹了一层奥巴马总统的外衣，而不是跟他区分开，给出一条新的路径。就像副总统乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)那样，在里根时代过后的1988年承诺建起“一个更友好、更亲和的国家”。
The convention speeches were full of cross-party appeals, as Sen. Tim Kaine, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, offered Republicans “a home” if they felt Trump did not represent “the party of Lincoln,” and former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York urged independents to vote for “a sane, competent person” — Clinton.
此次大会演讲有许多跨党派的吁求，比如获民主党副总统提名的蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)参议员说，如果有共和党人觉得特朗普无法代表“林肯的政党”，欢迎来这边“安家”，而前纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)呼吁独立派人士把选票投给“一个心智正常、能够胜任的人”——克林顿。
Kaine, a first-term senator and a former governor of Virginia, introduced himself to his largest television audience yet as a product of a Jesuit high school who embraced its motto — “Men for others” — who held close to his faith while trying to help Americans as a civil rights lawyer and then as a political leader whose most searing experience was the mass shooting at Virginia Tech in 2007. He occasionally shifted to Spanish, which he speaks fluently, and led the audience in a chant of an Obama political slogan, “Sí se puede” (“Yes you can”).
正处于参议员第一任期的凯恩曾是弗吉尼亚州州长，这是他第一次面对如此众多的电视观众。他说是一所耶稣会高中造就了他，他信奉该校“乃役于人”的校训，无论是一开始作为一名民权律师，还是之后的政治领袖，他都谨守信念，努力去帮助美国人民。他此生最苦痛的经历是2007年弗吉尼亚理工大学(Virginia Tech)的大规模枪击案。他偶尔会用他精通的西班牙语讲话，并引领人群喊出“Sí se puede”，那是奥巴马的政治口号“是的，我们可以”的西班牙语版。
Kaine paid brief tribute to Republicans and also hailed Sen. Bernie Sanders, who Clinton defeated for the nomination, at several points.
凯恩简短地表达了对共和党人的敬意，还多次赞扬在提名争夺中输给了克林顿的伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)参议员。
Convention organizers devoted part of Wednesday to attacking the Republican nominee, Trump, on national security, but delegates also got into a shouting war on the floor over the continuing military involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan and other countries.
大会组织者在周三将部分时间用于攻击共和党提名人特朗普的国家安全策略，但现场的代表们还就美国在伊拉克、阿富汗等国的持续军事介入展开唇枪舌战。
As Leon Panetta, the former defense secretary and CIA chief, spoke early in the evening, he was repeatedly interrupted with shouts of “No more war!” from several state delegations that favored the candidacy of Sen. Bernie Sanders during the presidential race. As the heckling persisted, Clinton’s supporters took up a counter-chant heard more often at the Republican convention to drown out the jeers: “USA, USA!”
前国防部长和中央情报局(CIA)局长利昂·帕内塔(Leon Panetta)是当晚最早的几名演讲者之一，他的讲话被“不要战争！”的喊声反复打断，发声的是在本次竞选中支持伯尼·桑德斯参议员的一些州代表团。克林顿的支持者则高喊“USA、USA！”来淹没起哄声，而这个口号其实更常见于共和党大会。
Vice President Joe Biden, a party leader beloved by many rank-and-file Democrats, also pilloried Trump while heaping praise on Obama.
副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)是深受许多普通共和党人爱戴的领导人，他也揶揄了特朗普，并对奥巴马大加赞扬。
“No major party nominee in the history of this nation has known less or been less prepared,” Biden said. He delighted the audience by saying the Republican “does not have a clue about the middle class.”
“在这个国家的历史上，没有哪个主要政党提名人像他这样，知道得这么少，准备得这么不足，”拜登说。他说共和党人“对中产阶级毫无概念”，引起观众一阵笑声。
“Actually,” Biden ad-libbed, “he has no clue, period.” The crowd responded with a “Not a clue!” chant.
“事实上，”拜登脱离讲稿说道，“是他毫无概念，就这么简单。”人群中响起一阵“毫无概念！”作为回应。
As much as Biden and other speakers sought to rally Democrats against Trump, protesters continued to mass and march outside the convention hall to denounce everything from Clinton’s nomination to the superdelegate process in the Democratic primary rules that ultimately favored Clinton. The police arrested several protesters on Wednesday night in the latest in a series of demonstrations unfolding around Philadelphia this week.
拜登等演讲者在努力让民主党人同仇敌忾，共御特朗普。然而会堂之外，抗议者的集会和游行仍在继续，从对克林顿的提名，到民主党初选规则中全面偏向克林顿的超级代表制度，都是他们存有异议的地方。本周在费城出现了一系列示威活动，警方在周三晚逮捕了数名抗议者。
Before Obama even entered the convention hall here, the audience was clearly as devoted to him as they were excited for Clinton. The first lady, Michelle Obama, was received with adoration and her speech on Monday was the most talked-about moment of the first days of the convention. And even a quick flash of Obama’s face, amid a procession of past presidents on the convention screen Tuesday, brought a burst of applause.
甚至在奥巴马进入会场之前，就能明显感受到观众仍然对他挚爱有加，毫不逊色于他们对克林顿的激动期待。第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)备受爱戴，她在周一发表的演讲是大会头两天最受瞩目的话题。周二的大会上，就连奥巴马的面孔在屏幕上播放历任总统的画面之际一闪而过，都引发了一片欢呼声。
The president is also the strongest adhesive holding Democrats together after five months of bitterly fought primary and caucus contests between Clinton and Sanders of Vermont. According to a New York Times-CBS poll from earlier this month, 82 percent of Sanders supporters approved of Obama’s job performance,
在克林顿和佛蒙特州的桑德斯于初选及党团会议中苦苦争斗了5个月之后，奥巴马还是把民主党人团结在一起的最强大的粘合剂。根据《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)在本月早些时候开展的民调，桑德斯的支持者中，认同奥巴马的工作表现者占比82%。
Clinton also drew an endorsement from former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, a Democrat-turned-Republican-turned-independent, who told the convention that he sometimes disagreed with the nominee but decided to unite with her because he saw Trump as a “risky, reckless, and radical choice.”
克林顿还得到了纽约市前市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的背书。由民主党变身为共和党，又变身为无党派独立人士的布隆伯格在大会上表示，他和克林顿有时会有分歧，但还是决定与其联起手来，因为在他看来，特朗普是一个“危险、鲁莽而又极端的选择”。
After two nights of convention speeches focused on Clinton’s virtues and attempts to make peace with Sanders supporters, Clinton campaign officials sought to address the threat of radical Islamists — an omission early on that Republicans had criticized. And in a shift from only about a decade ago when they largely avoided the issue, Democrats used much of Wednesday to advocate gun control, sending relatives of those murdered in Newtown, Connecticut, and Charleston, South Carolina, as well as a former congresswoman, Gabrielle Giffords, to recount their stories.
一连两个晚上的大会发言，都以克林顿的优点及其意图与桑德斯的支持者搞好关系为重心。随后，克林顿竞选班子的官员试图应对伊斯兰派激进分子所带来的威胁——这方面的缺失此前曾遭致共和党人的批评。此外，大约十年前，民主党人还基本对控枪议题采取回避态度，现在风向已经变了。周三，他们用很多时间来倡导枪支管制，并让康涅狄格州纽敦市、南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿市的枪击案遇难者家属以及前众议员加布里埃尔·吉弗茨(Gabrielle Giffords) 讲述自己的经历。
But virtually all of the anticipation Wednesday surrounded Obama and the symbolic passing of the torch to Clinton after she became the party’s nominee on Tuesday night.
但在周三，人们所有的期待实际上都围绕着奥巴马，以及克林顿在成为该党总统提名人之后象征性地接过火炬的仪式。