WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama on Tuesday largely commuted the remaining prison sentence of Chelsea Manning, the Army intelligence analyst convicted of an enormous 2010 leak that revealed U.S. military and diplomatic activities across the world, disrupted the administration, and made WikiLeaks, the recipient of those disclosures, famous.
华盛顿——贝拉克·奥巴马总统周二大幅减免了陆军情报分析员切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)剩下的刑期。曼宁因2010年的一次大型泄密事件而被判有罪。该事件暴露了美国在全世界的军事和外交活动，扰乱了联邦政府的工作，并让接受这些泄密材料的维基解密(WikiLeaks)声名大噪。
The decision by Obama rescued Manning, who twice tried to commit suicide last year, from an uncertain future as a transgender woman incarcerated at the male military prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. She has been jailed for nearly seven years, and her 35-year sentence was by far the longest punishment ever imposed in the United States for a leak conviction.
奥巴马的决定救了曼宁，让其不再前途未卜。作为一名跨性别女性，曼宁被关押在堪萨斯州莱文沃思堡男子军事监狱里。去年，她两次试图自杀。她已经被关押了近七年，而她35年的刑期，也是迄今为止美国对泄密罪做出的判决中刑期最长的。
Now, under the terms of Obama’s commutation announced by the White House Tuesday, Manning is set to be freed on May 17 of this year, rather than in 2045.
现在，根据白宫周二宣布的奥巴马的减刑令，曼宁将于今年5月17日，而不是2045年获释。
The commutation also relieved the Department of Defense of the difficult responsibility of her incarceration as she pushes for treatment for her gender dysphoria — including sex reassignment surgery — that the military has no experience providing.
减刑也给国防部解了围。因为曼宁要求治疗自己的性别焦虑症，包括性别重置手术，但军方没有提供这种治疗的经验，国防部面临着如何关押她的难题。
In recent days, the White House had signaled that Obama was considering granting Manning’s commutation application, in contrast to a pardon application submitted on behalf of Edward Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who disclosed archives of top secret surveillance files and is living as a fugitive in Russia.
最近几天，白宫发出信号，表示奥巴马正在考虑批准曼宁的减刑申请。这和对待代表前情报承包商雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)提交的赦免申请的态度形成了对比。斯诺登泄露了大量绝密监视文件，现在以逃亡者的身份生活在俄罗斯。
Asked about the two clemency applications, the White House spokesman, Joshua Earnest, discussed the “pretty stark difference” between Manning’s case for mercy with Snowden’s. While their offenses were similar, he said, there were “some important differences.”
被问及这两份渴求仁慈的申请时，白宫发言人乔舒亚·欧内斯特(Joshua Earnest)讨论了曼宁和斯诺登希望被仁慈以待的理由之间“非常显著的区别”。他说，尽管他们的罪行类似，但还是有“一些重要的差别”。
“Chelsea Manning is somebody who went through the military criminal justice process, was exposed to due process, was found guilty, was sentenced for her crimes, and she acknowledged wrongdoing,” he said. “Mr. Snowden fled into the arms of an adversary, and has sought refuge in a country that most recently made a concerted effort to undermine confidence in our democracy.”
“切尔西·曼宁走了军方的刑事司法程序，在正当的法律程序中被判定有罪，并因她的罪行被判刑，她也承认了自己的不当行为，”他说。“斯诺登投入了敌人的怀抱，在最近还采取协调行动、试图破坏对我们民主信心的国家寻求避难。”
He also noted that while the documents Manning provided to WikiLeaks were “damaging to national security,” the ones Snowden disclosed were “far more serious and far more dangerous.” (None of the documents Manning disclosed were classified above the merely “secret” level.)
他还指出，尽管曼宁提供给维基解密的文件“有损国家安全”，但斯诺登泄露的那些文件要“严重得多，危险得多”（曼宁泄露的文件中没有“秘密”以上级别的）。
Manning was still known as Bradley Manning when she deployed with her unit to Iraq in late 2009. There, she worked as a low-level intelligence analyst helping her unit assess insurgent activity in the area.
2009年年底和所在的部队被派驻伊拉克时，曼宁还叫布拉德利·曼宁。在那里，她是一名初级情报分析员，工作内容是帮助所在部队评估该地区的叛乱活动。