In a significant setback for President Obama’s signature domestic initiative, the administration on Tuesday abruptly announced a one-year delay, until 2015, in his health care law’s mandate that larger employers provide coverage for their workers or pay penalties. The decision postpones the effective date beyond next year’s midterm elections.
奥巴马总统的一项标志性国内计划在周二遭遇重大挫折，美国政府突然宣布把新医保法案中的一条规定推迟一年，至2015年执行，该条法规称，较大规模的雇主须向员工提供医保，否则将支付罚金。该决定把此规定的生效日期推迟到了明年的中期选举之后。
Employer groups welcomed the news of the concession, which followed complaints from businesses and was posted late in the day on the White House and Treasury Web sites while the president was flying home from Africa. Republicans’ gleeful reactions made clear that they would not cease to make repeal of Obamacare a campaign issue for the third straight election cycle.
雇主团体对政府让步的消息表示欢迎，在这之前，企业界曾对这一规定抱怨不休。该消息于周二晚间发布在白宫和财政部的网站上，与此同时，总统正从非洲飞回美国。共和党的欣喜反应清楚表明，他们会在连续的第三个选举周期中继续将废除奥巴马医改(Obamacare)作为他们的活动议程。
While the postponement technically does not affect other central provisions of the law — in particular those establishing health insurance marketplaces in the states, known as exchanges, where uninsured Americans can shop for policies — it throws into disarray the administration’s effort to put those provisions into effect by Jan. 1.
尽管延期实质上不会影响该法案的其他主要条款——特别是在美国建立医保市场（被称为医保交易所）的条款，即未参保的美国人可以在交易所选购保险——但延期还是打乱了政府为让条款在1月1日前生效而做出的努力。
“I am utterly astounded,” said Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at George Washington University and an advocate of the law. “It boggles the mind. This step could significantly reduce the number of uninsured people who will gain coverage in 2014.”
“我万分震惊，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)的卫生法律和政策教授、奥巴马医保法案的倡导者萨拉·罗森鲍姆(Sara Rosenbaum)说。“简直难以想象。此举将显著减少了那些能在2014年获得医保的未参保者的人数。”
At the White House, Tara McGuinness, a senior adviser on the law, disputed that.
在白宫，该法案的高级顾问塔拉·麦吉尼斯(Tara McGuinness)反对上述说法。
Under the law, most Americans will be required to have insurance in January 2014, or they will be subject to tax penalties. The announcement on Tuesday did not say anything about delaying that requirement or those penalties.
根据这部法律的规定，大多数美国人将被要求在2014年1月参保，否则他们会被处以税收上的处罚。周二公布的消息并没有提及推迟这一要求或相关的惩罚措施。
Administration officials sought to put the action in a positive light in the online announcements, and they emphasized that the existing insurance coverage of most Americans would not be affected.
政府官员试图在网上公告中展现这一决定的积极意义，他们强调，大多数美国人的现有保险不会因此受到影响。
“We have heard concerns about the complexity of the requirements and the need for more time to implement them effectively,” Mark J. Mazur, an assistant Treasury secretary, wrote on the department’s Web site. “We recognize that the vast majority of businesses that will need to do this reporting already provide health insurance to their workers, and we want to make sure it is easy for others to do so.”
“我们得知，有人对这些要求的复杂性表示担忧，也有人认为应该花更多时间来有效推行这些要求，”助理财政部长马克·J·马祖尔(Mark J. Mazur)在财政部的网站上写道。“我们注意到，那些需要出具报告的企业中的绝大多数已经向员工提供了医保，而且我们想确保其他企业也能轻易做到。”
The 2010 Affordable Care Act required employers with more than 50 full-time workers to offer them affordable health insurance starting next year or face fines. Some companies with payrolls just above that threshold said they would cut jobs or switch some full-time workers to part-time employment so that they could avoid providing coverage.
2010年的《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)要求，有50人以上全职员工的雇主须从明年开始向员工提供价格合理的医保，否则就会被处以罚款。一些员工人数刚刚达到这一标准的公司表示，他们会裁员或把一些全职员工转为兼职，这样就不用向员工提供保险。
Under the provision to set up state-based marketplaces, subsidies are supposed to be available to many lower- and middle-income people who do not have access to coverage from employers or other sources. It may be difficult, however, for officials running the exchanges to know who is entitled to subsidies if employers do not report information on the coverage they provide to workers.
根据建立州级医保市场的要求，很多不能从雇主处或其他渠道获得医保的低收入或中等收入人群理应获得补贴。但对管理保险交易所的官员来说，如果雇主不向他们报告其向员工提供医保的有关信息，他们可能难以弄清谁有权获得补贴。
And even some supporters of the law say establishment of the health insurance exchanges is behind schedule.
甚至一些该法案支持者也表示，建立医保交易所的进度落后于预期。
Behind the scenes, the administration has been fielding questions and criticisms from businesses about the reporting requirements — especially the Treasury Department, which has responsibility, given its oversight of the tax reporting system.
私底下，政府一直在应对企业界对报告要求的质问和批评——特别是财政部，该部因监督报税系统而对此有责。
Employer groups were quick to applaud the delay. At the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has strongly opposed the law, Randy Johnson, senior vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits, said in a statement, “The administration has finally recognized the obvious — employers need more time and clarification of the rules of the road before implementing the employer mandate.”
雇主团体立即对延期表示欢迎。美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)强烈反对该法，它负责劳工、移民和雇员利益的高级副总裁兰迪·约翰逊(Randy Johnson)在一则声明中称，“政府最终承认了这显而易见的一点——在执行雇主支付令之前，雇主需要更多时间和对操作规程更明确的阐释。”
E. Neil Trautwein, a vice president of the National Retail Federation, said the delay “will provide employers and businesses more time to update their health care coverage without threat of arbitrary punishment.”
美国零售联合会(National Retail Federation)的副总裁E·尼尔·特劳特温(E. Neil Trautwein)说，延期“能让雇主和企业有更多时间来更新他们的医保范围，而无须担心受到随意的处罚”。