Many thousands of Americans seeking green cards for foreign spouses or other immediate relatives have been separated from them for a year or more because of swelling bureaucratic delays at a federal immigration agency in recent months.
成千上万名试图为自己的外籍配偶或其他直系亲属拿绿卡的美国人都已经与他们的亲人分离了一年甚至更久，这是因为一家联邦移民机构的办事拖延问题越来越严重。
The long waits came when the agency, Citizenship and Immigration Services, shifted attention and resources to a program President Obama started in 2012 to give deportation deferrals to young undocumented immigrants, according to administration officials and official data.
从奥巴马政府的官员言论和官方数据来看，之所以出现这种长时间的等待，是因为公民及移民服务局(Citizenship and Immigration Services)把注意力和资源转移到了奥巴马总统于2012年开始的一个项目。该项目旨在延迟年轻非法移民的遣返。
The trouble that American citizens have faced gaining permanent resident visas for their families raises questions about the agency’s priorities and its readiness to handle what could become a far bigger task. After Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said on Thursday that the House was not likely to act on an immigration overhaul this year, immigrant advocates are turning up their pressure on Mr. Obama to expand the deferral program to include many more of the 11.7 million immigrants in the country illegally.
美国公民在为家人获得永久居民签证时所遇到的困难，使人们对公民及移民服务局的工作重心以及能力产生了怀疑，担心它没有准备好迎接一个要艰巨的多的任务。周四，来自俄亥俄州的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)表示，众议院今年很可能不会针对全面的移民改革采取行动。于是，移民维权人士开始向奥巴马总统施压，要求他扩大暂缓遣返项目的范围，使更多的非法移民也被包括在内。目前，美国共有1170万非法移民。
Andrew Bachert is one citizen caught in the slowdown. After he moved back to this country in August for work, he thought he and his wife, who is Australian, would be settled by now in a new home in New York State, shoveling snow and adjusting to the winter chill. Instead his wife, Debra Bachert, is stranded, along with the couple’s two teenagers and two dogs, in a hastily rented house in Adelaide, where the temperature rose in January to 115 degrees.
安德鲁·巴谢特(Andrew Bachert)是受延误影响的公民之一。他于去年8月回到美国工作，原本认为自己和澳大利亚籍妻子现在应该住在纽约州的新家里，铲铲雪，适应冬天的寒冷。然而，他的妻子黛布拉·巴谢特(Debra Bachert)却与他们两个十几岁的孩子和两条狗一起滞留在阿德莱德一个仓促租来的房子里，当地1月的气温能升到华氏115度（约合46摄氏度）。
At loose ends, Mr. Bachert, 48, spent Halloween and Thanksgiving without his wife and children, and he opened his Christmas presents for them himself — on a Skype call so at least they could see what he had gotten for them.
于是，48岁的巴谢特只好在妻子和孩子都不在身边的情况下，百无聊赖地度过了万圣节和感恩节，他还亲手打开了送给他们的圣诞礼物——通过Skype，这样他们至少能看到他送的是什么。
“I’m sitting over here on my own, and it’s unbearably hard,” Mr. Bachert said. At the current pace, Mrs. Bachert will probably not travel to the United States before August.
“我独自坐在这里，非常难受，”巴谢特说。按照目前的进展来看，巴谢特夫人可能在今年8月之前都无法前往美国。
Until recently, an American could obtain a green card for a spouse, child or parent — probably the easiest document in the immigration system — in five months or less. But over the past year, waits for approvals of those resident visas stretched to 15 months, and more than 500,000 applications became stuck in the pipeline, playing havoc with international moves and children’s schools and keeping families apart.
每位美国公民原本可以在至多5个月的时间里为配偶、子女或父母申请到绿卡——这或许是移民系统中最容易获取的一种签证，近来已经不是这样了。但是，在过去一年中，批准这些移民签证所需的时间被延长到了15个月，而且还有50多万份申请处于等待之中，给国际来往、子女上学造成了问题，还使亲人分隔两地。
“U.S. citizens petitioning for green cards for immediate relatives are a high, if not the highest, priority in the way Congress set up the immigration system,” said Gregory Chen, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the national bar association. “This is a problem that needs to be fixed quickly.”
“为直系亲属申请绿卡的美国公民是移民系统的重要服务对象——甚至可以说是最重要的——这也是国会设立移民系统的初衷，”全国性律师组织美国移民律师协会(American Immigration Lawyers Association)的维权事务总监格雷戈里·陈(Gregory Chen)说。“这是一个急需解决的问题。”
Christopher S. Bentley, a Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesman, said the agency had seen “a temporary increase in processing times” for the citizens’ green card applications because of the deferrals program and “the standard ebb and flow” of visas.
公民及移民服务局的发言人克里斯托弗·S·本特利(Christopher S. Bentley)表示，因为暂缓遣返计划和签证的“正常的申请量涨跌周期”，服务局的公民绿卡申请“处理时间暂时出现了增加”。
Last year, officials said, the agency detected the problem and tried to speed up the green cards by spreading them out to three processing centers. In November, the agency reported it had reduced waits to 10 months, calling that a “significant step forward.” Officials said they hoped to reduce waits to five months, but not before this summer.
官方称，服务局去年发现了这个问题，并希望通过把绿卡申请分配到三家处理中心来加快速度。服务局11月表示，他们已经将等待时间缩短到了10个月，并称之为一个“巨大的进步”。官员们还说，他们希望能把等待时间缩短到5个月，但要实现至少要到今年夏季之后。
Because there are no annual limits on green cards for citizens’ immediate relatives, there are no systemic backlogs. But initial approvals are centralized at the immigration agency in the United States. After that step, generally the longest, the visas must also pass through the State Department and foreign consulates. The law prohibits foreigners who want to become residents from entering as tourists while their documents are in process.
授予公民直系亲属的绿卡数量没有年度上限，因此并不存在系统性积压的问题。可是，最初的审批集中在联邦移民机构，而这一步骤耗费的时间往往是最久的。过后，签证还要通过国务院和外国领事机构的批准。相关法律禁止希望成为居民的外国人在文件审批期间持旅游签证入境。
After Mr. Obama announced the deferral program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, in 2012, he gave Citizenship and Immigration Services only two months to get it running. Agency officials scrambled. As of last week, 521,815 youths had received deferrals, with the agency handling more than 2,000 applications a day.
2012年，奥巴马宣布了名为“童年入境暂缓遣返程序”(Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals)的延迟遣返计划。总统只给了公民及移民服务局两个月时间启动这个程序。服务局上下紧急行动起来。截至上周，521,815名青年得到了暂缓，而服务局每天要处理2000多桩申请。
The agency drew rare praise from immigrants and advocates for the efficiency of the program, which is highly popular among Latinos. It has been widely regarded as a successful dress rehearsal for a larger legalization.
由于暂缓计划的高效率，服务局罕见地得到了移民及维权人士的赞扬。该项目在拉丁裔人群中大受欢迎，还被外界普遍认为是更大规模的合法化进程的一次成功预演。
But soon after the deferrals were underway, Americans with green card applications felt the impact.
然而，暂缓计划进行不久，处于绿卡申请程序中的美国民众就感受到了影响。
“You end up seeing a steep decline in approvals for people like me who followed the law,” said Forrest Nabors, 47, a political science professor at the University of Alaska in Anchorage, who filed in July for a green card for his wife, Zdenka, who is Czech.
“结果看到，像我这种遵纪守法的人获批的数量急剧减少，”阿拉斯加大学安克雷奇分校(University of Alaska in Anchorage)的政治学教授福雷斯特·内伯斯(Forrest Nabors)说。他现年47岁，去年7月为捷克籍的妻子兹登卡(Zdenka)提交了绿卡申请文件。
An immigration service center near Kansas City assigned to handle both the green card applications and many of the deferrals was rapidly overwhelmed, officials said. But although the agency is financed by fees and does not depend on congressional appropriations, no new employees were brought on at that center, because of “unanticipated hiring difficulties,” officials said, without elaborating.
堪萨斯城的一家移民服务中心被同时指定为处理绿卡申请和大量暂缓申请的机构。官员们表示，这家中心很快就被如潮的申请淹没了。尽管该机构由申请费支撑，无需国会拨款，但并未增加额外的人手。官员们表示，原因在于“始料未及的招聘困难”，但并未披露个中详情。
Mr. Bachert was so certain he would see his family soon when he left Australia last summer that his children, both American citizens, did not go to the airport to see him off. He had little doubt his wife would qualify: They have been married for 17 years, and she had a green card once before, when Mr. Bachert, who works with electric utilities, had an earlier job in the United States. But the document expired, and she could not renew it when they were living in Australia.
去年夏天离开澳大利亚的时候，巴谢特十分确信能很快见到家人，因而身为美国公民的两个孩子都没去机场送行。他深信妻子够格：两人结婚17载，从事电力行业的巴谢特之前曾在美国工作了一段时间，当时她也是有绿卡的。不过，证明文件到期的时候，他们已经移居澳大利亚，所以她没法续签。
Some lawyers urged Mrs. Bachert to come as a tourist to join her husband. After deliberating for two sleepless weeks, she said, she decided she would rather bide her time apart than lie to American customs officials about her intentions to remain in the United States.
一些律师建议巴谢特夫人以游客的身份入境与丈夫团聚。经过两周寝食难安的反复思考，她还是决定，宁愿继续分居两地的等待也不要欺骗美国海关部门，隐瞒自己留在美国的企图。
Mr. Bachert, who will eventually work in upstate New York but is camped out in a temporary apartment near his company’s headquarters in Hartford, said his lowest moment had been a frantic predawn phone call from his wife. Their son was in a hospital heading for emergency surgery after shattering his forearm and wrist in a bicycle fall. Two months later, Mr. Bachert shuddered to recall the episode, although his son’s bones have healed. “No parent,” he said, “should be separated from their family in periods such as that.”
巴谢特计划在纽约州北部工作，如今却在哈特福德的公司总部附近的临时公寓里安营扎寨。他表示，情绪最低落的时刻是有一次破晓前接到妻子打来的慌乱电话。他们的儿子从自行车上跌落，摔断了前臂和手腕，正在医院里，即将接受急救手术。两个月过去了，尽管儿子的骨头已痊愈，巴谢特回想起这件事仍然心有余悸。他说，“为人父母的，绝不应该在这种情况下被迫与家人分离。”