HANOVER, Germany — It has been, perhaps, one of the most enduring mysteries of President Obama’s tenure: What really happened to the bust ofWinston Churchill that was once displayed in the Oval Office?
德国汉诺威——这可能是奥巴马总统执政期间困扰世人最久的谜团之一：曾在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)占有一席之地的那尊温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)半身像，到底遭遇了什么？
With just months left in his term, Mr. Obama’s first comments on the matter, in Europe last week, may have finally cleared up the truth of a tale that has persisted for more than seven years.
上周到访欧洲期间，还有几个月就要卸任的奥巴马首度就此事置评，他的话或许终于可以让事实水落石出，给一个存在超过7年的传言划上句号。
For conservatives in both America and Britain, the disappearance of the bust from its place of honor soon after the end of George W. Bush’s presidency was evidence of a liberal snub by Mr. Obama. In their view, he clearly did not fully appreciate the greatness of the British prime minister, who served during and after World War II. (The bust was replaced, White House officials said at the time, with one of Abraham Lincoln.)
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)卸任不久，丘吉尔那尊半身像就从荣誉之地消失，对美英两国的保守派而言，这是奥巴马作为自由派的故意怠慢之举。他们认为，奥巴马显然没能全然领会曾在“二战”期间和战后担任英国首相的丘吉尔的伟大之处（白宫官员当时说，丘吉尔半身像被换成了亚伯拉罕·林肯[Abraham Lincoln]半身像）。
The conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer, the onetime Republican presidential contender Mike Huckabee and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a current Republican presidential candidate, are among those who have chastised Mr. Obama over the years for returning the bust to the British. Less than a month after Mr. Obama’s first inauguration in 2009, a British newspaper bluntly accused him of sending “Sir Winston Churchill packing.”
这些年来，很多人一直在责备奥巴马把丘吉尔半身像送还英国，其中包括保守派专栏作家查尔斯·克劳塞默(Charles Krauthammer)、曾经的共和党总统候选人麦克·哈克比(Mike Huckabee)，以及当前的共和党总统候选人、德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)。2009年，奥巴马首次就任总统还不到一个月，就有一家英国报纸直言不讳地发出谴责，说他“把丘吉尔扫地出门”。
Not true, the White House insisted at the time, offering various explanations. William Allman, the White House curator, said in a 2010 interview with CBS News that the bust, on loan to Mr. Bush by Tony Blair, the former British prime minister, “was already scheduled to go back” before Mr. Obama took office.
白宫方面当时坚称事实并非如此，并给出了各种各样的解释。白宫资产管理总监威廉·埃尔曼(William Allman)2010年接受CBS新闻频道(CBS News)采访时说，丘吉尔半身像是布什从英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)那儿借来的，奥巴马履新前“归还事宜就已经安排好了”。
The bust was returned “as a matter of course” by the new administration along with other art that had been on loan to Mr. Bush for display during his term in office, White House officials said. Dan Pfeiffer, the president’s communications director at the time, blasted Mr. Krauthammer, calling his charge about the disappearing bust “100 percent false” and saying that “news outlets have debunked this claim time and again.”
白宫官员称，新一届政府把布什在职期间借来的半身像以及其他艺术品一起还回去是“自然而然的事情”。奥巴马当时的公关负责人丹·菲佛(Dan Pfeiffer)对克劳塞默予以痛斥，称其关于消失的半身像的指控“百分之百错误”，还说“新闻媒体已经一次又一次地揭穿了这种说法背后的真相。”
In a blog post labeled a “fact check” on the White House website, Mr. Pfeiffer wrote: “The bust still in the White House. In the Residence. Outside the Treaty Room.”
菲佛在白宫网站一篇被归类为“事实核查”的博客帖子里写道：“那尊半身像还在白宫。在行政官邸里，条约厅(Treaty Room)外。”
Mr. Pfeiffer later apologized to Mr. Krauthammer after admitting that the bust outside the Treaty Room was, in fact, a different Churchill bust, given to President Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1960s. Still, Mr. Pfeiffer insisted, the return of the Oval Office bust was “not something that President Obama or his administration chose to do” and was not “a symbol of President Obama’s failure to appreciate the special relationship.”
菲佛后来承认条约厅外摆放的其实是前总统林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)在1960年代受赠的另一尊丘吉尔半身像，并向克劳塞默道了歉。不过菲佛仍然坚称，椭圆形办公室归还半身像“并非奥巴马政府或者他领导下的政府的选择”，也不是“奥巴马总统无法理解美英之间特殊关系的表现”。
But late last week, Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, renewed the charge, writing in a British tabloid that the Oval Office bust had been “banished” and suggesting that it could be “a symbol of the part-Kenyan president’s ancestral dislike of the British Empire — of which Churchill had been such a fervent defender.”
但上周末，伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)旧事重提，在一份英国报纸上写下谴责之辞，他说椭圆形办公室里的那尊半身像遭到驱逐，他还表示这是“拥有肯尼亚血统的美国总统对丘吉尔用一腔热诚捍卫过的大英帝国怀有祖传的厌弃之情的一种表现”。
Countering such charges is typically left to a president’s aides. But asked at a news conference Friday about the mayor’s comments, Mr. Obama seemed to relish the chance to set everyone straight, once and for all, about the fate of the Churchill bust.
反驳此类指责一般是总统幕僚的职责所在。但在上周五的一个新闻发布会上，当被问及与伦敦市长的评论有关的问题时，奥巴马本人似乎很高兴有机会一劳永逸地纠正所有人关于丘吉尔半身像命运的错误想法。
The president started by explaining that when it came to Churchill, “I love the guy.” He offered as proof the Churchill bust that sits outside the Treaty Room, the president’s private office on the second floor of the White House residence, not far from the first family’s living quarters.
谈及丘吉尔，总统首先解释说，“我喜欢那个人”。他以目前摆放在协议厅外的另一尊丘吉尔半身像作为佐证——协议厅位于白宫行政官邸的二楼，是奥巴马的私人办公室，靠近第一家庭的生活区。
“I see it every day, including on weekends, when I’m going into that office to watch a basketball game,” he said. “The primary image I see is a bust of Winston Churchill. It’s there voluntarily, because I can do anything on the second floor. I love Winston Churchill.”
“我每天都会看到他，包括周末，去那间办公室看棒球赛的时候也不例外，”他说。“我首先看到的就是温斯顿·丘吉尔的半身像。它被放在那里是有意为之，我在二楼想干什么都行。我喜欢温斯顿·丘吉尔。”
But then Mr. Obama went on to explain what had happened to the bust lent by Mr. Blair, the one that critics had accused him of summarily sending back to the British. It was, Mr. Obama said, his decision to return that Churchill to his native land, because he wanted to replace it with a bust of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
不过，奥巴马接下来解释了布莱尔借出的丘吉尔半身像的命运，也就是批评人士指责他一上台立即被归还英国的那尊。奥巴马说，是他自己决定送丘吉尔像回国，因为他想代之以牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Martin Luther King Jr.)的雕像。
“There are only so many tables where you can put busts. Otherwise, it starts looking a little cluttered,” the president explained. “And I thought it was appropriate, and I suspect most people here in the United Kingdom might agree, that as the first African-American president, it might be appropriate to have a bust of Dr. Martin Luther King in my office.”
“能放半身像的桌子只有那么多张。否则，就会看起来有点杂乱，”他解释道。“我当时想，身为首位非裔美国总统，在自己的办公室里放一尊马丁·路德·金博士的雕像是恰当之举，而且我想英国的多数人大概也同意这种观点。”
He added that the choice of Dr. King was “to remind me of all the hard work of a lot of people who would somehow allow me to have the privilege of holding this office.”
他还说，选择金博士是“为了提醒自己，我有幸入主椭圆形办公室，是有许多人做出了艰苦努力”。
That appears to contradict the longstanding denials by White House officials, including Mr. Pfeiffer, that neither Mr. Obama nor anyone else in his administration had chosen to dispatch Churchill’s likeness in favor of someone else’s. By Mr. Obama’s admission, he made the decision to replace the Churchill bust with one of Dr. King.
这种说法听起来与白宫官员的长期说辞相悖。包括菲佛在内的这些官员坚称，并非奥巴马本人或者他领导的政府中的任何人有意将丘吉尔像换成了其他人的雕像。奥巴马如今却承认，正是他做出决定，用金博士的半身像替换丘吉尔像。
“I think people should know my thinking there,” Mr. Obama told the reporters in London.
“我想，应该让大家了解我在这件事上的考量，”奥巴马告诉伦敦的记者。
Mystery solved.
谜题解开了。
Except for one thing: The version of events in which Lincoln had replaced Churchill was mentioned in most stories about the issue (including in this paper). Mr. Pfeiffer included news reports about it in his 2012 blog post attacking Mr. Krauthammer.
然而，还是落下了一件事：在这个议题上，几乎所有的文章中（包括本报）都提及了林肯替换丘吉尔的说法。在2012年抨击克劳塞默的博客帖子里，菲佛也引用了有关这一说法的新闻报道。
“The A.P. reported that President Obama ‘replaced the Oval Office fixture with a bust of one of his American heroes, President Abraham Lincoln,’ ” he wrote.
“美联社报道，奥巴马总统‘用他心目中的美国英雄亚伯拉罕·林肯总统的雕像替换了椭圆形办公室的这尊摆件，’”他写道。
Mr. Pfeiffer no longer works for Mr. Obama; he is now vice president of communications and policy for GoFundMe, a website that helps its users raise money for causes.
菲佛不再为奥巴马工作；他目前为众筹网站GoFundMe担任负责通讯联络与政策方面的副总裁。
Current White House officials said the Churchill bust had been replaced with one of Dr. King, but the Oval Office still has a Lincoln bust as well, perhaps leading to the confusion.
现今的白宫官员的说辞则是，丘吉尔像被金博士像取代了，但椭圆形办公室还是有一尊林肯像，这或许让人感到疑惑。