LE BOURGET, France — President Obama wrapped up his visit to the Paris climate talks on Tuesday by defending his decision to focus on the environment in the midst of a war in Syria and brushing off threats that his climate change efforts would be thwarted by Republicans in Washington.
法国布尔歇——本周二，在结束巴黎气候谈判之行的时候，奥巴马总统为自己在叙利亚战争期间侧重于环境议题做了辩护，而对于共和党有可能在华盛顿阻挠自己的气候变化努力，奥巴马表示不以为然。
At a news conference on the second full day of the talks, Mr. Obama said that the United States was obligated to participate in efforts to reach a global agreement on limiting greenhouse gas emissions “because this one trend, climate change, affects all trends.”
在会谈第二个整天的新闻发布会上，奥巴马说美国有义务参与达成一个限制温室气体排放的全球性协议，因为“气候变化这个趋势影响到了所有趋势”。
“Climate change is a massive problem,” he said. “It’s a generational problem. It’s a problem that by definition is just about the hardest thing for any political system to absorb” because the effects are gradual and diffuse.
“气候变化是一个大问题，”他说。“这是一代人的问题。这个问题的性质决定了它几乎是任何政治体制都最难消化的东西，”因为它的影响是渐进的、扩散的。
And yet, he said, “I actually think we’re going to solve this problem.”
然而，他说，“我倒是觉得，我们会解决这个问题。”
Mr. Obama made his remarks hours before Congress was to reconvene, and the Republican majority in the House was expected to send a signal to negotiators from the nearly 200 nations gathered here that it did not support the president’s climate-change policies.
奥巴马发表这番言论数小时之后，美国国会将结束休会期，预计众议院的共和党多数派将对聚集在这里的近200个国家的谈判人员发出一道讯息：他们不支持奥巴马的气候变化政策。
The House was expected to pass two bills blocking Mr. Obama’s major initatives on climate change, a set of Environmental Protection Agency rules to push energy providers away from coal-fired power plants.
众议院预计将通过两项法案，阻止奥巴马在气候变化方面的主要行动——环保局(Environmental Protection Agency)的一套旨在推动能源供应商放弃燃煤电厂的规定。
Coal burning is a major source of carbon, which scientists say is driving up atmospheric temperatures around the globe with potentially catastrophic consequences. Many Republicans in the House dismiss scientific findings that climate change is exacerbated by such human activity.
燃煤是碳的主要来源，科学家们说碳推升了全球大气的温度，可能导致灾难性的后果。科学家发现气候变化是由人类的这类活动加剧的，而众议院的很多共和党人对这些科学发现置之不理。
The action in the House would come after similar votes in the Senate last month, and send the bills to Mr. Obama’s desk.
参议院上个月已经举行了类似的投票，众议院本次投票之后，这些法案就会呈交到奥巴马的办公桌上。
Mr. Obama has said he intends to veto the legislation, but the actions are symbolic and meant to undermine the stance of the United States during the two weeks of negotiations taking place in this suburb north of Paris.
奥巴马已经表示会否决这项立法，但这些行动是象征性的，意在削弱美国在本次谈判中的立场。谈判为期两周，在巴黎北部的这个郊区举行。
Mr. Obama dismissed concern that Republicans would be able to make good on their pledge to block the United States from fulfilling financial pledges meant to help developing nations transition their economies so that they are less dependent on fossil fuels.
一些人担心共和党有能力兑现其承诺，阻止美国履行其帮助发展中国家转变经济模式，降低他们对化石燃料依赖度的财政承诺，奥巴马对这种担忧不以为然。
“This is not just one slug of funding that happens in one year,” Mr. Obama said. “This is multiyear commitments that in many cases are already embedded in a whole range of programs around the world. And my expectation is that we absolutely will be able to meet our commitments.”
“这不只是一年一次的拨款，”奥巴马说。“这是持续多年的承诺，很多例子表明，它们已在世界各地的一系列项目中得到了体现。我相信我们绝对能够履行承诺。”
Mr. Obama, who has about 14 months left in office, also seemed untroubled by the idea that a Republican successor might overturn anything he accomplishes in Paris.
共和党继任者可能会推翻他在巴黎取得的一切成果这一点，似乎并未困扰到任期剩余大约14个月的奥巴马。
“Let me first of all say, I’m anticipating a Democrat succeeding me,” he said, drawing laughter. He added that any president must consider the concerns of countries around the world, because the United States’ credibility and global leadership depend on them.
“首先要说的是，我预计接替我的是民主党人，”他说，听众报以笑声。他接着表示，不管谁当总统，都必须考虑世界各国的担忧，因为美国的信誉和全球领导力都有赖于它们。
“The fact of the matter is that there’s a reason why you have the largest gathering of world leaders probably in world history here in Paris,” Mr. Obama said. “Everyone else is taking climate change seriously.”
“事实是，此次世界领导人在巴黎齐聚一堂的规模可能是世界历史上最大的，这是有原因的，”奥巴马说。“其他所有人都在严肃对待气候变化问题。”
Ignoring the problem would mean that much of the United States’ spending on the military and other matters would have to be devoted to dealing with rising sea levels and changing weather patterns, he said.
他表示，忽视这个问题意味着美国在军事和其他事务上的大量开支，都会不得不用来应对海平面不断上升和天气模式变幻莫测的问题。
His comments echoed the findings of a Pentagon report released last year that said climate change posed an immediate threat to national security. The report identified increased risks from terrorism, infectious disease, global poverty and food shortages. It also predicted that there would be increased demand for military assistance as extreme weather created more humanitarian crises around the world.
奥巴马的评论与五角大楼去年发布的一份报告的调查结果类似。该报告称，气候变化对国家安全构成了直接威胁。报告发现，来自恐怖主义、传染病、全球贫困和粮食短缺的风险增加。报告还预言，随着极端天气在全球造成的人道主义危机增多，对军事援助的需求将会增加。
Mr. Obama went on to tick off his requirements for a successful deal: an ambitious target that calls for a low-carbon global economy; transparency; and periodic reviews of whether emissions targets need to be adjusted.
奥巴马接着列举了他对一项成功的协议的要求：呼吁全球发展低碳经济的宏伟目标、透明、定期检查是否需要调整排放目标。
Mr. Obama was asked about efforts against the Islamic State. He said that, despite repeated meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, “I don’t think you should be under any illusions now that Russia will start targeting only ISIL targets.”
奥巴马还被问到了抗击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的行动。他表示，尽管与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京多次会面，但“我认为现在不应抱有任何幻想，以为俄罗斯将开始把目标仅对准ISIL”。
The Russians have been deeply invested in propping up the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, Mr. Obama said, adding that he believed their commitment to the Syrian leader was not going to change anytime soon.
奥巴马称俄罗斯耗费了大量精力支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府，并表示他认为俄罗斯对叙利亚总统的承诺不会很快改变。