Holy seven million, Batman! The Affordable Care Act, a k a Obamacare, has made a stunning comeback from its shambolic start. As the March 31 deadline for 2014 coverage approached, there was a surge in applications at the “exchanges” — the special insurance marketplaces the law set up. And the original target of seven million signups, widely dismissed as unattainable, has been surpassed.
足有700万，天哪！《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)，也就是“奥巴马医改”(Obamacare)，在踉跄起步后，实现惊人逆转。2014年度参保的最后期限3月31日临近之际，在“交易所”——这部法案设立的销售医保的特殊市场——申请医保的人数激增。很多人都不以为然地认为，起初设立的700万注册目标无法达成，但现在的数字却超越了这一预期。
But what does it mean? That depends on whether you ask the law’s opponents or its supporters. You see, the opponents think that it means a lot, while the law’s supporters are being very cautious. And, in this one case, the enemies of health reform are right. This is a very big deal indeed.
这到底意味着什么？答案取决于问的对象是医改的支持者还是反对者。大家知道，反对者认为其中大有深意，而支持者却谨小慎微。就在这一件事情上，医改的敌人们恰恰说对了。这的的确确是非常大的手笔。
Of course, you don’t find many Obamacare opponents admitting outright that 7.1 million and counting signups is a huge victory for reform. But their reaction to the results — It’s a fraud! They’re cooking the books! — tells the tale. Conservative thinking and Republican political strategy were based entirely on the assumption that it would always be October, that Obamacare’s rollout would be an unremitting tale of disaster. They have no idea what to do now that it’s turning into a success story.
当然，不会有多少反对奥巴马医改的人会痛快地承认，这710万且还在持续增加的注册人数意味着医改的重大胜利。可是，他们对这一结果的反应说明了一切——“这是欺诈！数据做了手脚！”保守派的思维定势与共和党的政治策略完全建立在去年10月的情形会不断重复的假想之上，即奥巴马医改的推行会成为绵延不断的灾难。如今医改正走向成功，他们手足无措了。
So why are many reform supporters being diffident, telling us not to read too much into the figures? Well, at a technical level they’re right: The precise number of signups doesn’t matter much for the functioning of the law, and there may still be many problems despite the March surge. But I’d argue that they’re missing the forest for the trees.
那么，为何有许多医改的支持者出言谨慎，告诉我们不要对这个数字过度解读呢？好吧，在技术层面上他们没错：具体的注册数据对医改法案发挥作用的影响不大，而且尽管3月份的参保人数激增，但可能还是存在诸多问题。不过，我得说，他们这是只见树木不见森林。
The crucial thing to understand about the Affordable Care Act is that it’s a Rube Goldberg device, a complicated way to do something inherently simple. The biggest risk to reform has always been that the scheme would founder on its complexity. And now we know that this won’t happen.
理解《合理医疗费用法案》的关键是，它是一种鲁布·戈德堡(Rube Goldberg)系统，用复杂的方式来做一件本质简单的事情。医保改革最大的风险一直在于，这一计划可能会因为其本身的复杂性而搞砸。现在我们知道，这样的事情没有发生。
Remember, giving everyone health insurance doesn’t have to be hard; you can just do it with a government-run program. Not only do many other advanced countries have “single-payer,” government-provided health insurance, but we ourselves have such a program — Medicare — for older Americans. If it had been politically possible, extending Medicare to everyone would have been technically easy.
不要忘记，给每个人提供医保并不是件难事，可以简单地通过政府管理的单一项目实现。不仅许多其他发达国家拥有这种“一方掏腰包”的政府提供的医保，而且我们自己也有一个为老年人服务的此类项目——联邦医疗保险(Medicare)。如果不是在政治上行不通，将联邦医疗保险扩容至全民在技术上其实很容易。
But it wasn’t politically possible, for a couple of reasons. One was the power of the insurance industry, which couldn’t be cut out of the loop if you wanted health reform this decade. Another was the fact that the 170 million Americans receiving health insurance through employers are generally satisfied with their coverage, and any plan replacing that coverage with something new and unknown was a nonstarter.
可是，出于几个原因，政治上的确行不通。首先是保险业势力强大。要想让医改在这10年里展开，就无法将保险业排除在外。其次是，实际上，通过雇主获取医保的1.7亿美国民众对自己的保险计划基本满意，而用未知的新保险来替代现有医保的做法毫无成功的希望。
So health reform had to be run largely through private insurers, and be an add-on to the existing system rather than a complete replacement. And, as a result, it had to be somewhat complex.
因此，医改必须大部分通过私营保险机构来实现，而且是现行系统的补充，而不是全盘替换。结果，它必须要有一定程度的复杂性。
Now, the complexity shouldn’t be exaggerated: The basics of reform only take a few minutes to explain. And it has be as complicated as it is. There’s a reason Republicans keep defaulting on their promise to propose an alternative to the Affordable Care Act: All the main elements of Obamacare, including the subsidies and the much-attacked individual mandate, are essential if you want to cover the uninsured.
这种复杂性不应被夸大：医改的基本情况只需几分钟就能解释清楚，而且目前的复杂程度是必不可少的。共和党人之所以迟迟不能兑现为《合理医疗费用法案》提出一个替代方案的承诺，是有原因的：如果要囊括过去没有保险的人，奥巴马医改的所有要素，包括补贴及饱受攻击的个人强制参保规定，均必不可少。
Nonetheless, the Obama administration created a system in which people don’t simply receive a letter from the federal government saying “Congratulations, you are now covered.” Instead, people must go online or make a phone call and choose from a number of options, in which the cost of insurance depends on a calculation that includes varying subsidies, and so on. It’s a system in which many things can go wrong; the nightmare scenario has always been that conservatives would seize on technical problems to discredit health reform as a whole. And last fall that nightmare seemed to be coming true.
虽说如此，奥巴马政府还是建立了一个新系统，民众并不是直接收到一封来自联邦政府的信件，上书“恭喜，现在你有医保了”；而是必须上网或打电话，从几个选项中作出选择，而相应的保费取决于计算结果，其中要考虑包括不同的补贴额度在内的多种因素，如此种种。在这个体系中，有很多地方都有可能出纰漏。一直以来，最糟糕的设想是，保守派抓住其中的技术问题来攻击整套医改。去年秋季，这种噩梦般的设想差点就变为现实了。
But the nightmare is over. It has long been clear, to anyone willing to study the issue, that the overall structure of Obamacare made sense given the political constraints. Now we know that the technical details can be managed, too. This thing is going to work.
然而，噩梦已经结束。只要愿意研究这个问题，任何人都早就应该清楚地看到，在当前的政治局限下，奥巴马医改的整体框架是合理的。如今我们还知道，技术细节问题也是可以掌控的。医改将会取得成功。
And, yes, it’s also a big political victory for Democrats. They can point to a system that is already providing vital aid to millions of Americans, and Republicans — who were planning to run against a debacle — have nothing to offer in response. And I mean nothing. So far, not one of the supposed Obamacare horror stories featured in attack ads has stood up to scrutiny.
是的，这也是民主党人在政治上的重大胜利。他们可以指出，医保体系已经在为数百万美国民众提供生死攸关的援助，而共和党人本来指望用它的惨败来竞选，如今却无可应对。真的是什么也没有。迄今为止，攻击广告中主打的所谓的奥巴马医改恐怖故事中，没有一个经受住了质疑。