WASHINGTON — President Obama escalated sanctions against Russia on Wednesday by targeting a series of large banks and energy and defense firms in what officials described as the most punishing measures to date for Moscow’s intervention in Ukraine.
华盛顿——周三，奥巴马总统升级了对俄罗斯的制裁，将一系列大型银行以及能源和防务公司列为制裁目标。官员称这是迄今为止对俄罗斯干涉乌克兰事务的最严厉惩罚。
While the latest moves do not cut off entire sectors of the Russian economy, as threatened in the past, the administration’s actions go significantly further than the financial and travel limits imposed so far on several dozen individuals and their businesses. The new measures will severely restrict access to American debt markets for the targeted companies.
尽管最新举措并未像过去威胁的那样，将俄罗斯的一些经济领域彻底隔离，但相比目前对几十名个人及其企业在金融和旅行方面的限制，奥巴马政府的制裁力度有大幅加强。新举措将严格限制被列为制裁目标的企业进入美国债务市场。
“We have emphasized our preference to resolve this issue diplomatically, but we have to see concrete actions and not just words,” Mr. Obama told reporters on Wednesday evening in remarks in the White House briefing room.
“我们已经强调优先考虑通过外交途径解决这一问题，但我们不得不采取具体行动，而不仅仅是空谈，”奥巴马周三晚上在白宫新闻发布厅发表讲话时告诉记者。
He repeated that Russia needed to halt the flow of fighters and weapons across the border and support peace talks. “So far, Russia has failed to take any of the steps that I have mentioned. In fact, Russia’s support for the separatists and violations of Ukraine’s sovereignty has continued.”
他重申俄罗斯必须停止越境输出战斗人员和武器，并支持和平谈判。“截至目前，俄罗斯尚未采取我提到的任何步骤。事实上，俄罗斯对分离分子的支持，和对乌克兰主权的侵犯仍在继续。”
Among the firms targeted were some of the most prominent in Russia, including Rosneft, the state-owned oil company and largest oil producer; Gazprombank, the financial arm of Gazprom, the giant state-controlled natural gas producer; Novatek, another Russian natural gas producer that has been competing with Gazprom; and VEB, the state economic development bank.
被列为目标的有俄罗斯最著名的一些公司，其中包括国有石油公司、俄罗斯最大的石油生产商俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)、国有天然气生产巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）旗下的金融机构俄罗斯天然气工业银行(Gazprombank)，一直与俄气公司竞争的另一家天然气生产商诺瓦泰克公司(Novatek)以及国有经济发展银行开发与外经银行(VEB)。
The administration also targeted eight state-owned defense firms; four Russian government officials, including an aide to President Vladimir V. Putin and a top official in the Federal Security Service; an oil shipping facility in Crimea, which Moscow annexed; a pro-Russian separatist leader; and the rump rebel organizations in the eastern Ukrainian cities of Donetsk and Luhansk.
被奥巴马政府列为制裁对象的还有八家国有防务公司、包括弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统的一名助手和联邦安全局(Federal Security Service)的一名高官在内的四名政府官员、位于被俄罗斯吞并的克里米亚的一处石油装运设施、一名亲俄罗斯的分离主义领袖以及乌克兰东部顿涅茨克市和卢甘斯克市的几个残余反叛组织。
Russia quickly denounced the moves and vowed to retaliate. “We condemn those politicians and bureaucrats who are behind such actions,” Sergei A. Ryabkov, the deputy foreign minister, told the Interfax news agency. Mr. Ryabkov said that Moscow would respond with countermeasures that would be “quite painful and serious.”
俄罗斯迅速对相关举措表示谴责，并立誓将进行报复。“我们谴责这种行动背后的那些政客和官僚，”俄罗斯副外长谢尔盖·A·亚布科夫(Sergei A. Ryabkov)向俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)。亚布科夫表示，莫斯科将回以“相当痛苦和严重”的对策。
The moves were coordinated with European leaders, who were meeting in Brussels on Wednesday to consider their own package of penalties against Russia. The Europeans declined to go as far as the United States, instead focusing on a plan to block loans for new projects in Russia by European investment and development banks.
欧洲领导人采取行动以配合这些制裁举措。周三，欧洲领导人在布鲁塞尔召开会议，考虑各自对俄罗斯的惩罚方案。他们拒绝采取美国那么严厉的举措，而是专注于一项计划，阻止欧洲的投资和发展银行为俄罗斯的新项目提供贷款。
The disparate approaches reflect the deeper divisions between Washington and Brussels over how tough to be with Russia.
这种方式上的迥异反映出，在对待俄罗斯的强硬程度上，华盛顿与布鲁塞尔的分歧加深了。
But American officials said the fact that Europe was moving ahead with additional actions, even if not as stringent as their own, should be seen as a sign of continuing solidarity in the face of Russian provocation in Ukraine. The synchronized actions were arranged during a Tuesday telephone call between Mr. Obama and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who has been the most critical player driving the European response to Russia.
不过，美国官员表示，欧洲出手采取额外行动，应被视为一个积极信号，表明面对俄方在乌克兰的挑衅行为，美欧双方的合作在持续加固，哪怕欧洲的行动不如美国的严厉。此次同步行动是奥巴马和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)在周二通话期间安排的，后者一直是驱使欧洲对俄方作出反应的最关键的人物。
“We have said for quite some time that Russia’s failure to take some of the steps that would de-escalate the conflict in Ukraine put them at risk of facing greater isolation and greater economic consequences,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, told reporters at a briefing hours before the new sanctions were announced.
“在相当长的一段时间里，我们一直强调，如果俄罗斯不能采取一些逐步缓和乌克兰冲突的举措，他们就有可能要面临进一步被孤立的状态以及更严重的经济后果，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在当局宣布启动新制裁前的一次新闻通报会上对记者表示。
The latest actions reflect a conclusion by American intelligence agencies that Russia has not cut off the flow of fighters and arms across the border to pro-Russian separatists. Ukrainian officials have said they believe Russia was responsible for the downing of a military transport plane in Luhansk, a rebel stronghold in eastern Ukraine.
最新的制裁表明 美国情报机构已经断定，俄罗斯并未切断作战人员和武器跨境流向亲俄分裂分子的通道。乌克兰官员已表示，他们认定，乌克兰的一架军用直升机在卢甘斯克州坠毁一事应由俄方负责，卢甘斯克州是叛军在乌克兰东部的大本营。
The White House summoned European Union ambassadors on Monday to a briefing at which they were shown fresh intelligence on Russian involvement in the Ukrainian turmoil and were pressed to take stronger action. Frustrated after waiting for several weeks for the Europeans to follow through on threats of further sanctions, American officials signaled that Mr. Obama was prepared to act unilaterally if necessary.
白宫于周一召见了欧盟各国驻美国大使通报相关情况，白宫方面向对方展示了俄罗斯介入乌克兰叛乱的最新情报，并给各国大使施压，要求欧盟各国采取更强力的行动。美国官员暗示，失望不已的奥巴马已做好准备，如有必要将单方面采取行动，此前数周，他一直在等欧洲人兑现口头威胁，实施进一步的制裁。
The new American actions will bar affected Russian companies from the American debt markets for loans over 90 days, meaning that they will still be able to conduct day-in, day-out business with overnight loans but will find it harder to finance medium- and long-term activity, officials said.
官员们表示，美国的新举措将禁止被制裁的俄罗斯公司进入美国债券市场购买期限在90天以上的债券，这意味着他们依然能够进行日常的隔夜拆借交易，不过，要从事中长期的借贷活动会更加困难。