SULAIMANIYA, Iraq — When President Obama sits down to write his foreign policy memoir he may be tempted to use as his book title the four words he reportedly uses privately to summarize the Obama doctrine: “Don’t Do Stupid Stuff” (with “stuff” sometimes defined more spicily).
伊拉克苏莱曼尼亚——奥巴马总统坐下来写他的外交政策回忆录的时候，可能忍不住想用四个单词来做书名，据称他私下用这四个词来总结自己的主张：“不要做傻事”（Don’t Do Stupid Stuff，这个“事”有时候会用上荤一些的字眼）。
Up to now, that approach has not served the country badly — fight where you must, fix what you can, work with allies wherever possible but never forget that using force is not the sole criteria for seriousness, considering, as Obama noted in a speech last week, that the wars that costs us the most were those we leapt into without proper preparation or allies and “without leveling with the American people about the sacrifice required.”
到目前为止，这一主张没有为美国带来恶劣的后果——在必要的时候战斗，处理能力范围内的事情，尽可能与盟友合作，但就像奥巴马上周演讲时指出的一样，考虑到我们在没有做好适当准备或没有找到合适盟友，“没有诚实告诉美国人民需要做出什么牺牲”的情况下就参与的战争，让我们付出了最为惨重的代价，我们绝不能忘记使用武力不是体现重要性的唯一标准。
So “Don’t Do Stupid Stuff” would certainly work as a book title today. But sitting here in Kurdistan — a true island of decency near the epicenter of what is now the biggest civil war on the planet, between Sunnis and Shiites, stretching from Iran across Iraq and Syria into Lebanon — I think Obama may eventually opt for a different book title: “Present at the Disintegration.”
因此，“不要做傻事”在如今肯定是可以成为书名的。但当我身处库尔德斯坦——一个名副其实的世外桃源，不远处就是这个星球上最大的一场内战的中心，这场逊尼派与什叶派的战争，已经波及到从伊朗到伊拉克、叙利亚乃至黎巴嫩的一大片区域——我在想，奥巴马可能最终会选用另一个书名：《分崩离析时，我在场》(Present at the Disintegration)。
Obama has been on duty when the world has come unstuck in more ways than any recent president. George H.W. Bush dealt deftly with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Bill Clinton was the first president who had to fire cruise missiles at a person — Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan — in the first battle ever between a superpower and a superempowered angry man. When that superempowered angry man struck our homeland on 9/11, George W. Bush responded with two invasions.
与最近几任总统相比，世界的分裂在奥巴马任内呈现出了更多的形式。乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)巧妙地应对了苏联解体一事。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)是第一位下令发射巡航导弹攻击个人——在阿富汗的奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)——的总统，那是一个超级大国首次和实力极强的暴怒者展开战斗。当这个暴怒者在9月11日对美国发动攻击时，乔治·W·布什用两次入侵行动作为回击。
Obama has had to confront the culmination of all these trends, and more: the blowback from both invasions; a weak, humiliated but still dangerous Russia; a drone war against many more superempowered angry men from Yemen to Pakistan; the simultaneous disintegration of traditional Arab states and the nuclearization of Iran; plus the decline of “spheres of influence” dictated by traditional powers from above and the rise of “people of influence” emerging from the squares and social networks below. These Square People have challenged everything from Russia’s sphere of influence in Ukraine to the right of the pro-U.S. Egyptian military to keep ruling Egypt.
这些趋势都已经达到巅峰，奥巴马需要面对它们，还有：两次入侵行动的后果；衰弱、受辱但仍旧危险的俄罗斯；针对从也门到巴基斯坦的越来越多的暴怒者而发起的无人机战争；传统阿拉伯国家的同时瓦解，以及伊朗的有核化；传统大国划定的“势力范围”的缩小，广场及社交网络上底层的“有影响力的人”的崛起。这些“广场人”挑战一切，从俄罗斯在乌克兰的势力范围，到亲美埃及军队继续统治埃及的权力。
Dealing with all these at once has been a doctrinal and tactical challenge, especially when combined with an exhausted U.S. public and an economic recession sapping defense spending.
同时应对这么多问题，在理论上和策略上都面临挑战，特别是在美国公众已经疲惫不堪，经济衰退导致国防开支遭到削减的时候。
Obviously, Obama would much prefer that his foreign policy memoir be called “Present at the Re-Integration” — at the forging of a new, stable pro-Western order. But that is so much harder today than Obama critics allow. Hey, it was relatively easy to be a hero on foreign policy when the main project was deterrence of another superpower. Just be steadfast and outspend them on defense. Where that is still necessary, with Russia and China, Obama has done O.K.
很明显，奥巴马更希望自己的外交政策回忆录叫作《重新融合时，我在场》(Present at the Re-Integration)，也就是新的、稳定的亲西方秩序的建立过程。但如今，做到这一点，远比奥巴马的批评人士想象的要困难的多。你看，如果主要计划是威慑另一个超级大国，那么在外交政策上扮演英雄要相对容易一些。只要不动摇，在国防开支上超过它们就可以了。当仍然需要这么做的时候——对俄罗斯及中国——奥巴马表现得还可以。
But when so much foreign policy involves dealing with countries that are falling apart or an entire region engulfed in civil war — and the only real solutions are not deterrence but transforming societies that are completely unlike our own and lack the necessary building blocks and we already spent $2 trillion on such projects in Iraq and Afghanistan with little to show for it — the notion that Obama might be a little wary about getting more deeply involved in Syria and is not waxing eloquent about the opportunity does not strike me as crazy.
但美国制定了很多外交政策应对那些正在分裂或整个地区陷入内战的国家，真正的解决办法并不是威慑，而是转变那些与我们完全不同的、缺少必要部件的社会，我们已经花费了两万亿美元（约合12.5万亿元人民币）在伊拉克和阿富汗开展此类项目，但效果并不明显。在这种情况下，奥巴马对于更深入地干涉叙利亚问题的态度可能有点谨慎，没有兴高采烈地大谈机遇，我并不认为这是个疯狂的念头。
I never believed that with just a few more arms early on the Syrian “democrats” would have toppled President Bashar al-Assad and all would have been fine. The Shiite/Alawites in Syria were never leaving quietly, and Iran, Russia and Hezbollah would have made sure of it. And does anyone believe that Saudi Arabia, our main ally in the Syrian fight, is trying to promote the same thing we are there, a pluralistic democracy, which is precisely what the Saudis do not allow in their own country?
我从来不曾认为，叙利亚“民主人士”在早期获得更多武器就能推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)，然后一切就好了起来。叙利亚的什叶派/阿拉维派绝不会悄然离开，伊朗、俄罗斯和真主党(Hezbollah)会证明这一点。有人相信我们在叙利亚战争中的主要盟友——沙特阿拉伯——会像我们一样，努力在叙利亚推动实现多元的民主制度？他们对自己的国家都不愿这么做。
Yes, being in Kurdistan, it is clear that the metastasizing of the Syrian conflict has reached a stage where it is becoming a factory for thousands of jihadists from Europe, Central Asia, Russia, the Arab world and even America, who are learning, as one Syrian Kurdish leader told me, “to chop people’s heads off and then go back home.” The conflict is also, as an Iraqi Kurdish security expert added, legitimizing Al Qaeda’s shift “from the caves of Afghanistan into the mainstream of the Arab world” as defenders of Sunni Islam. These are big threats.
是的，身在库尔德斯坦，明显能感觉到叙利亚冲突的蔓延已经达到一定程度，以至于它已经成为一个工厂，就像叙利亚的一名库尔德族领袖说的那样，欧洲、中亚、俄罗斯、阿拉伯世界及美国的数以千计的圣战主义者正在学习“砍掉人们的头，然后回家”。就像伊拉克的一名库尔德族安全专家说的那样，这场冲突使基地组织的转变显得非常合理——“走出阿富汗洞穴，进入阿拉伯世界的主流”，成为逊尼派伊斯兰教的捍卫者。这些都是巨大的威胁。
But when I ask Kurds what to do, the answer I get is that arming decent Syrians, as Obama has vowed to do more of, might help bring Assad to the table, but “there is no conventional military solution” — neither Shiites nor Sunnis will decisively beat the other, remarked a former deputy prime minister of Iraq, Barham Salih. “But walking away is not possible anymore.” Syria is spinning off too much instability now.
但是，当我问库尔德人该怎么办时，他们回答说，像奥巴马承诺的那样，给叙利亚的好人更多武器，可能有助于把阿萨德带到谈判桌上，但是伊拉克前副总理巴勒姆·萨利赫(Barham Salih)说，“常规的军事解决方案是不存在的”——什叶派和逊尼派都无法完败对方。“可是，走开不管也已经不可能了。”叙利亚已经派生出了太多的不稳定因素。